i  N 

Ninety-Second 

Semi- Annual  Conference 

Of  the  (jhurcn  of  Jesus  Lnrist 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

October  6,  7  and  9,  1921 

With  a  Full  Report  0}  j 
all  the  Discourses 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesns  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  1 

pniiiniiniiimm™^ 

I  I 

I  HISTORY  OF  I 
|    THE  CHURCH  1 

niiuttiiiiuitiiiiii]ii[iinuiinii;i'' :  't<i*inti'-rfiutimi    ■  iiniinimuirfMi^ajitiitituniMiHuiinmi  s 

£=5  =§• 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Histor- 
ians and  published  by  the  Church 


IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 

Completing  the  First  Period. 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with 
introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

A  remarkably  low  price  has  been  placed  on  the  His- 
tory by  the  First  Presidency  to  secure  the  widest  pos- 
sible circulation. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and 
Private  Library  should  have  a  set. 

Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol  $1.50  postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol.  2.50  " 

Half  Calf— Gilt  Top,  per  vol          2.50  " 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  vol.  4.00  " 


I  DESERET  I 

I  -BOOK 
|  COMPANY  | 

44  E.  SOUTH  TEMPLE  ST. 
{§  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


Ninety-Second  Semi-Annual  Conference 

of  the 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

The  92nd  Semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  at  10  a.  m.,  Thursday,  October  6,  1921. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  the  opening 
of  the  Conference. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT. 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
and  Anthony  W.  Ivins;  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Rudger  Clawson,*  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,!  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R. 
Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  and  John  A-  Widtsoe;  Presiding  Patriarch 
Hvrum  G.  Smith;  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy:  Seymour  B. 
Young,  B.  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  and  Levi  Edgar  Young:  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric :    Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith,  and  John  Wells. 

There  were  many  presidents  of  stakes  with  their  counselors, 
partiarchs,  bishops  of  wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
other  prominent  officers,  men  and  women,  representing  various 
quorums  and  organizations  of  the  Church. 

The  following  mission  presidents  were  in  attendance :  George 
W.  McCune,  Eastern  states;  Winslow  Farr  Smith,  Northern 
States;  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States;  Charles  A.  Callis, 
Southern  States;  John  M.  Knight,  Western  States;  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin,  California;  Heber  C.  Iverson,  Northwestern  States; 
Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Nephi  Jensen,  Canada ;  and  Benjamin  God- 
dard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  Tabernacle  was  comfortably  filled  with  people  from  all 
parts  of  the  Church. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God, 
for  a  prophet." 


*Reed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Washington,  and  Orson  F.  Whitney  presid- 
ing over  the  British  Mission. 

tDavid  O.  McKay  was  absent  on  a  world  tour  of  the  missions. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Stephen  L.  Chip- 
man,  President  of  the  Alpine  stake  of  Zion. 

The  hymn,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord," 
was  then  sung  by  the  choir  and  congregation. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  indeed  a  great  pleasure  to  have  again  the  opportunity  of 
meeting  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  General  Conference.  I  desire 
most  earnestly  that  the  prayer  of  President  Chipman  may  be  real- 
ized and  that  all  of  us,  who  may  have  the  opportunity  of  speak- 
ing during  the  sessions  of  this  conference,  may  be  inspired  of  the 
Lord.  I  know  that  I  not  only  speak  for  myself  but  for  all  of  my 
associates  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  when  I  say 
that  we  desire  only  to  say  those  things,  during  this  conference,  that 
shall  be  for  the  benefit,  spiritually  as  well  as  temporally,  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  know  not  only  my  own  heart,  but  I  know  the 
hearts  of  those  with  whom:  I  am  associated,  as  the  General  Author- 
ities of  the  Church,  and  I  know  that  each  and  all  of  us  desire  more 
than  anything  else  in  the  world  the  advancement  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  desire  the  welfare  spiritually 
of  the  people,  and  also  their  temporal  welfare ;  and  it  is  our  daily 
and  constant  prayer  to  God  that  his  blesings  may  be  and  abide  with 
the  Saints  in  all  parts  of  the  world,  and  also  with  every  honest- 
hearted  soul  who  dwells  upon  the  earth. 

THE  SANCTIFYING  POWER  OF  DISTRESS,  AS  ILLUSTRATED  IN  THE 
HISTORY  OF  THE  SAINTS 

t 

I  would  like  to  express  my  firm  conviction  as  to  the  applica- 
tion to  each  and  every  faithful  Latter-day  Saint,  of  the  last  verse 
that  we  have  just  sung,  verse  number  four  of  the  hymn,  "How 
firm  a  foundation :" 

When  through  the  deep  waters  I  call  thee  to  go, 
The  rivers  of  sorrow  shall  not  thee  o'erflow, 
For  I  will  he  with  thee,  thy  troubles  to  bless, 
And  sanctify  to  thee  thy  deepest  distress.  > 

When  I  think  of  the  distress  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  the 
dangers  and  persecutions  through  which  they  went  in  New  York, 
Ohio,  Missouri  and  Illinois;  when  I  think  of  the  trouble  and  diffi- 
culties of  the  great  pioneer  journey  from  the  Missouri  river  to 
these  valleys ;  when  I  think  of  the  reign  almost  of  terror  at  differ- 
ent times  from  my  childhood  until  now* — the  coming  of  an  army 
against  our  people ;  when  I  think  how  near  they  came  to  starving 
because  of  the  crickets;  when  I  think  of  the  confiscation  of  all  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


Church's  property,  and  the  many  trials  and  tribulations  through 
which  the  people  have  passed, — I  say  when  I  think  of  these  things 
I  realize  that  the  Lord  has  sanctified  all  their  trials  to  the  good 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  for  these  afflictions  and  tribulations  have 
fitted  and  qualified  them  more  perfectly  to  live  the  gospel  oi  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

PRESENT  DISTRESS  AND  DEBT 

At  the  present  time  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  the  people  of 
this  intermountain  country  are  in  great  distress  financially.  Per- 
haps there  has  never  been  a  time  from  the  early  days  of  the  set- 
tlement of  the  valley,  when  there  was  a  greater  scarcity  of  money 
in  proportion  to  the  needs  of  the  people,  and  when  so  many  people 
find  themselves  in  financial  difficulties,  mainly  due  to  the  fact  that 
they  launched  out  beyond  their  means,  and  ran  in  debt,  in  many 
cases  for  luxuries.  I  happened  to  pick  up  in  Chicago  a  bank 
advertisement  which  I  think  is  very  fine  and  timely  just  in  this  par- 
ticular condition  of  affairs.  The  words  are  the  words  of  that  wise 
man,  Benjamin  Franklin: 

Taxes  are  indeed  very  heavy;  but  if  those  laid  on  by  the  government 
were  the  only  ones  we  had  to  pay,  we  might  the  more  easily  discharge 
them.  But  we  have  many  others  and  much  more  grievous  to  some  of  us; 
we  are  taxed  twice  as  much  by  our  idleness,  three  times  as  much  by  our 
pride,  and  four  times  as  much  by  our  folly,  [and  they  didn't  .even  have 
automobiles  in  that  day]  and  from  these  taxes  the  commissioners  cannot 
ease  or  deliver  us  by  allowing  an  abatement. 

FAITH,  INTEGRITY  AND  DEVOTION  OF  THE  SAINTS 

From  my  eardiest  recollections,  from  the  days  of  Brigham 
Young  until  now,  I  have  listened  to  men  standing  in  the  pulpit  in 
the  old  Tabernacle,  and  before  that  in  the  Bowery,  before  we 
had  the  old  Tabernacle,  and  from  this  stand',  urging  the  people  not 
to  run  into  debt;  and  I  believe  that  the  great  majority  of  all  our 
troubles  today  is  caused  through  the  failure  to  carry  out  that 
counsel. 

I  certainly  hope  that  the  lessons  that  we  are  learning  today 
will  turn  out  a  blessing  to  us,  that  they  will  be  sanctified  to  our 
good,  as  illustrated  in  the  words  of  this  verse  from  the  hymn  that 
I  have  read.  And  I  believe  that  they  will.  I  have  an  abiding  and  perfect 
faith  in  the  integrity  and  the  devotion  and  the  loyalty  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  God  and  their  desire  to  serve  him.  I  have  full 
faith  in  the  people  that  have  embraced  the  gospel.  Why?  Because 
they  know  the  Lord ;  because  they  know  our  Redeemer,  the  Lord 
Jesns  Christ;  because  they  know  that  this  gospel,  commonly  called 
"Mormonism,"  is  in  very  deed  the  plan  of  salvation ;  because  they 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  an  absolute  and  abiding  knowledge  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God,  and  that  the  revelations  con- 
tained in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  are  in  very  deed  the  words 
of  God.  There  is  no  doubt  in  the  minds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
that  God  our  heavenly  Father,  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth ; 
did  speak  to  Joseph  Smith.    There  is  no  doubt  in  the  minds  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  God  pointed  to  his  Son  and  announced 
that  he  was  his  Son,  and  told  the  boy  to  hear  him,  and  that  the 
Savior  of  the  world  gave  instructions  to  Joseph  Smith.  I  read  a  few 
months  ago  of  one  of  the  great  "divines"  in  Great  Britain — a 
great- student  of  the  Bible,  declaring  that  Jesus  Christ  was  not  the 
Son  of  God,  and  quoting  as  part  of  his  authority  another  great 
"divine"  and  a  famous  theological  student  and  teacher.  Thank 
the    Lord    for   the   revelations    of    God    to   us,    for   the  revela- 
tions  from   Jesus    Christ   where,   time    and    time   again,    he  an- 
nounces   himself    as    the    Son    of    the    living    God,    and  the 
Redeemer  of  the  World !    Knowing  as  I  know,  and  as  the  Latter- 
day  Saints   do  know,   that   God   lives,   that   Jesus   is   the  Christ, 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  that  the  revelations 
contained  in  this  book  are  in  very  deed  the  words  of  God,  and 
the  words  of  our  Redeemer,   I  repeat  that  I  have   full   faith  in 
the  integrity  to  God  of  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  and  I  am  convinced 
beyond  a  shadow  of  doubt  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  will  continue 
to  spread,  notwithstanding  the  hard  times  financially  through  which  we 
have  been  passing. 


PROGRESS  IN  THE  MISSION  FIELD 

We  have,  at  the  present  time  in  the  missionary  field,  seventeen 
hundred  and  ninety-eight  missionaries,  not  including  hundreds 
cf  workers  in  foreign  lands  who  are  local  missionaries,  who  have 
been  working  in  that  capacity  because  of  the  lack  of  material 
in  sending  elders  from  the  stakes  of  Zion.  Our  missionary  activities 
for  the  first  six  months  of  this  year  indicate  an  increase  in  all 
the  missions  of  the  Church  of  65  per  cent  in  baptisms,  as  compared 
with  the  same  period  a  year  ago.  This  proves  that  the  work  of  the 
Lord  is  spreading,  that  notwithstanding  hard  times,  notwith- 
standing financial  difficulties,  there  is  a  most  remarkable  and 
wonderful  increase  in  the  number  of  those  who  are  embracing 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ-  We  have  practically  the  same 
number  of  missionaries  now  that  we  had  a  year  ago,  so  this  growth 
is  not  because  of  the  increase  in  the  laborers  in  the  fields,  but  is  be- 
cause of  increase  in  the  power  of  the  missionaries  and  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  to  those  who  are  engaged  in  the  work.  There 
has  also  been  an  increase  of  over  50  per  cent  in  the  mission  fields 
in  charities  obtained  during  the  past  six  months. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


ABOUT  THE  LABORS  OF  MISSIONARIES 

In  this  connection,  I  desire  to  say  to  all  the  Latter-day  Saints 
that  we  wish  they  would  refrain  from  writing  to'  laborers  in  the 
mission  field  suggesting  that  it  is  about  time  they  were  coming 
home.  Where  parents  have  had  sons  in  the  mission  field  for,  say 
15,  16  or  18  months,  and  feel,  because  of  financial  difficulties 
that  it  is  impossible  to  keep  them  longer,  we  advise  that  they 
state  the  circumstances  to  the  bishop  of  their  wards,  who  should 
then  apply  to  the  elders  and  seventies,  and  these  should  endeavor 
to  raise  the  means  to  keep  those  young  men  in  the  field  for 
at  least  two  years  or  two  years  and  a  half.  In  most  cases  a  young 
elder  is  just  coming  to  himself  and  to  a  capacity  and  ability 
and  power  to  preach  the  gospel  with  force  and  with  the  inspiration 
of  God,  when  he  has  been  in  the  mission  field  18  months,  and 
it  is  a  great  injustice  to  the  boy  who  is  growing  spiritually — as 
he  cannot  grow  in  any  other  labor  in  all  the  world — that  he  should 
have  to  come  home  too  soon.  Those  who  are  at  home  ought  to 
realize  this,  and  ought  to  feel  a  responsibility  and  a  willingness 
and  a  desire  to  keep  in  the  field  the  young  men  from  the  various 
wards  until  they  have  completed  at  least  two  years  of  service ;  and 
in  many  cases  it  would  be  a  god-send  to  the  young  men,  as  well 
as  to  those  who  help  ,  if  their  mission  were  extended  to  two  and 
a  half  or  even  three  years.  I  remember  President  Lyman's  idea 
was  that  a  missionary  who  had  been  in  the  field  two  years  and  a 
half  could  do  more  by  remaining  another  six  months  than  he  had 
done  in  the  entire  year  of  his  previous  term ;  and  I  believe  this. 

APPEAL  TO  THE  SAINTS  TO  KEEP  MISSIONARIES  IN  THE  FIELD 

So  where  young  men  have  the  spirit  of  their  missions  and  are 
themselves  willing  and  anxious  to  stay,  but  whose  parents,  be- 
cause of  financial  difficulties  are  unable  to  keep  them,  I  appeal  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  to  respond  to  the  calls  of  the  elders  and  the 
seventies  and  the  bishopric  of  the  wards,  and  assist  in  keeping  these 
young  men  in  the  field.  Our  mission  to  the  world  is  to  proclaim  the 
gospel ;  one  reason  why  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  was  placed 
upon  the  earth  was  that  men  should  come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth ; 
and  the  one  supreme  object  above  all  other  objects  of  every  Latter-day 
Saint  should  be  to  bring  people  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

MISSIONARY  WORK  THE  GREATEST  OF  ALL  IN  THE  WORLD 

The  missionary  work  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  the  greatest 
of  all  the  great  works  in  all  the  world.  We  find  recorded  in  the 
eighteenth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God: 
For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh;  where- 
fore he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and  come 
unto  him. 

And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men 
unto  him,  on  conditions  of  repentance; 

And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth. 

Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people; 

And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repent- 
ance unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great 
shall  be  your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father? 

And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be  your  joy  if 
you  should  bring  many  souls  unto  me? 

Behold,  you  have  my  gospel  before  you,  and  my  rock,  and  my  salva- 
tion. 

Ask  the  Father  in  my  name,  in  faith  believing  that  you  shall  receive, 
and  you  shall  have  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  manifesteth  all  things  which 
are  expedient  unto  the  children  of  men. 

And  if  we  have  not  faith  we  cannot  please  the  Lord,  the 
revelation  goes  on  to  say.  We  should  have  faith  in  God  and  not 
only  have  faith,  but  works  also,  and  exhibit  our  works  by  supporting 
those  who  are  in  the  missionary  field. 

WONDERFUL  MISSIONARY  LABORS  IN  THE  STAKES  OF  ZION 

I  wish  to  say  that  I  am  delighted  with  the  excellent  and 
wonderful  labors  that  have  been  accomplished  in  some  of  the 
stakes  of  Zion  in  converting  and  baptizing  people.  Missionary 
work  that  has  been  carried  on  here  at  home  during  the  past  six 
months  has  been  far  more  fruitful  than  it  has  ever  been  before. 
We  have  not  really  done  our  duty  here  at  home  in  our  mis- 
sionary work.  It  is  only  within  the  last  year  or  two  that  we  have 
taken  up  a  systematic  labor  of  visiting  those  who  are  not  of  our 
faith  and  explaining  the  gospel;  and  in  proportion  to  the  amount 
of  this  work  that  has  been  done,  the  results  in  baptisms  have 
been  greater  than  the  same  amount  of  work  anywhere.  I  am 
grateful  for  this  labor,  and  commend  those  stakes  of  Zion  where 
it  has  been  most  energetically  carried  on. 

THE  BEST  LAW  IN  THE  WORLD  TO  MAKE  BETTER  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

In  these  hard  times  financially,  I  want  to  repeat  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  my  firm  belief  that  God  our  heavenly  Father  prospers 
and  blesses  and  gives  wisdom  to  those  men  and  to  those  women 
who  are  strictly  honest  with  him  in  the  payment  of  their  tithing. 
I  believe  that  when  a  man  is  in  financial  difficulty,  the  best  way  to 
get  out  of  that  difficulty  (and  I  speak  from  personal  experience, 
because  I  believe  that  more  than  once  in  my  life  I  have  been 
in  the  financial  mud  as  deep  as  almost  anybody)  is  to  be  absolutely 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


honest  with  the  Lord,  and  never  to  allow1  a  dollar  to  come  into  our 
hands  without  the  Lord  receiving  ten  per  cent  of  it.  The  Lord 
does  not  need  your  money  or  mine.  Compliance  with  the  law  of 
tithing  and  donations  for  ward  meetinghouses,  stake  houses,  academies, 
temples,  missionary  work  and  these  various  needs,  are  all  for  our 
good.  They  are  but  lessons  that  we  are  learning  which  will  qualify 
and  prepare  us  to  become  more  godlike  and  to  be  fitted  to  go 
back  into  the  presence  of  our  heavenly  Father.  The  very  lessons 
of  a  financial  nature  that  are '  given  ,us  are  the  same  'as 
lessons  that  are  given  in  a  school  to  a  boy  or  a  girl ;  they 
are  for  the  benefit  of  the  boy;  they  are  for  the  benefit 
of  the  girl,  for  their  advancement,  for  their  joy  and  happiness  in 
after  life ;  because  of  all  the  knowledge  and  information  we  acquire, 
and  in  the  improvement  that  we  make,  we  ourselves  are  the  ones 
who  are  benefited.  God  our  heavenly  Father  has  instituted  laws 
to  improve  his  people  physically,  spiritually,  intellectually,  and 
one  of  the  best  laws  in  all  the  world  to  make  better  Latter-day 
Saints  is  the  law  of  tithing.  There  are  many  people  who  believe  the 
gospel  and  would  probably  embrace  it,  but  for  the  fact  that  they 
are  like  that  young  man  of  whom  we  read  in  the  Scripture, 
when  the  Savior  told  him,  after  the  young  man  declared  that 
"all  these  things  have  I  done,"  to  sell  what  he  had  and  give  to  the 
poor.  M.any  people  cannot  endure  the  gospel  because  of  financial 
requirements  that  are  made  of  them,  and  they  allow  the  things  of 
this  world,  which  they  have  grasped  firmly  and  steadfastly,  to 
rob  them  of  the  greatest  of  all  God's  gifts,  namely,  life  eternal. 
I  commend  the  law  of  tithing  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  am 
entitled  to  commend  it,  because  from  my  childhood  days  I  have 
never  made  a  dollar  that  the  tithing  has  not  been  honestly  paid 
upon;  and  I  acknowledge  the  blessings  of  Almighty  God  to  me  be- 
cause of  obeying  this  law. 

THE  LAW  OF  HEALTH  AND  WEALTH 

I  want  to  exhort  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  observe  and  keep  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  I  consider  it  almost  a  crime  for  men  and 
women  who  acknowledge  that  they  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and 
that  this  gospel  commonly  called  "Mormonism"  is  in  very 
deed  the  truth — I  consider  it  almost  a  crime  that  when  the  Lord 
Almighty  gives  to  them  a  law  whereby  they  can  have  health 
and  vigor  of  body  and  mind,  they  disregard  it.  Every  single 
dollar  that  is  expended  in  breaking  the  Word  of  Wisdom  goes 
out  of  the  country.  It  is  so  much  of  the  vital  fluid,  so  to  speak, 
financially  drawn  from  the  community  every  time  a  man  or 
woman  drinks  a  cup  of  tea  or  coffee  or  uses  tobacco  or  uses 
liquor,  because  we  do  not  produce  those  things  at  home.  If  they 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


actually  believed  thoroughly  the  Word  of  Wisdom  it  seems  to 
me  you  couldn't  possibly  persuade  people  not  to  obey  it : 

"A  Word  of  Wisdom  for  the  benefit  of  the  Council  of  High 
Priests,  assembled  in  Kirtland,  and  Church,  and  also  the  Saints  of 
Zion. 

"To  be  sent  greeting — not  by  commandment  or  constraint, 
but  by  revelation  and  the  word  of  wisdom,  showing  forth  the 
order  and  will  of  God"' — remember  this  is  the  will  of  God — "in  the 
temporal  salvation  of  all  Saints  in  the  last  days." 

I  believe  firmly  that  if  all  the  money  which  has  been  sent  out 
of  this  country  from  the  day  the  Saints  first  located  in  these 
valleys,  for  those  things  that  the  Lord  has  said  in  this  revelation 
are  not  good  for  man,  had  instead  been  kept  here,  the  accumulation 
of  wealth  in  our  country  would  have  been  so  great  that  this 
intermountain  section  where  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  located, 
would  be  one  of  the  richest  and  most  prosperous  in  all  the  United 
States.  A  dollar  is  to  the  financial  body  what  a  drop  of  blood  is 
in  the  body.  We  only  have,  as  I  understand,  about  twenty  pounds 
of  blood  in  the  body.  The  heart  beats  about  eighty  times  a 
minute  and  handles  about  four  ounces  every  time  it  beats;  there- 
fore that  twenty  pounds  of  blood  is  handled  every  minute  and  there 
is  about  ten  tons  of  it  handled  every  twenty-four  hours — ten  tons 
although  there  are  only  twenty  pounds  of  it.  Of  course  they  say 
we  just  accidentally  came  here,  our  hearts  just  accidentally  keep  a-going 
and  handles  ten  tons  of  blood  a  day — a  little  bit  of  a  pump,  the  size  of 
your  fist — and  if  it  accidentally  stopped  two  or  three  minutes,  none  of 
us  would  be  here.  The  heart  alone  is  one  of  the  greatest  testimonies 
of  the  divine  power  of  God,  because  we  don't  even  have  to  think  to  ask 
it  to  beat.  If  we  did,  we  wouldn't  have  anything  else  to  do  but  sit 
down  and  tell  the  heart  to  work.  It  would  keep  us  busy  all  the  time. 
There  is  nothing  in  all  the  world  devised  by  the  utmost  ingenuity  of, 
man,  that  can  do  the  same  amount  of  work  as  that  little  piece  of  ma- 
chinery, the  human  heart,  operating  after  the  manner  of  a  pump,  with 
twenty  pounds  doing  practically  ten  tons  of  work  every  twenty-four 
hours.  Now,  as  I  say,  money,  a  dollar,  is  just  the  same.  It  is  estimated 
that  a  dollar  does  all  the  way  from  twenty  to  over  a  hundred  dollars 
of  work  a  year,  going  round  and  round,  and  circulating,  and  buying 
and  paying  and  doing  work ;  so  when  we  stop  to  think  that  there 
are  hundreds  of  thousands  of  dollars  sent  out  of  this  country 
every  year  for  breaking  the  Word  of  Wisdorrfj — true,  the  great 
majority  of  it  is  not  sent  by  the  Latter-day  Saints — we  can  form 
some  idea  of  what  could  have  happened  if  money  thus  sent  out 
had  been  kept  at  home  and  each  dollar  of  it  permitted  to  do  its 
hundred  dollars'  worth  of  work- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


A  PRACTICAL  LESSON  ON  THE  WORTH  OF  A  DOLLAR  IN  HOME  INDUSTRY 

Speaking  of  the  work  a  dollar  does  at  home  reminds  me  of 
an  incident  that  I  have  related  many  times.  Years  ago  there  was 
a  great  drive  in  this  section  of  the  country  to  support  home-made 
goods,  and  I  was  one  who  was  deeply  interested  in  it,  being  a 
member  of  several  committees  that  were  working  to  bring  about 
this  policy.  I  remember  that  during  our  conference  we  had  a 
meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall  one  evening  and  one  of  the  speakers 
on  that  occasion  was  the  then  bishop  of  Smithfield,  George  L. 
Farrell,  Brother  Farrell  said  that  for  twenty  odd  years,  or  perhaps 
he  said  thirty,  he  had  been  coming  down  to  conference  twice  a 
year  and,  knowing  that  all  the  stock  in  the  railroad  running 
through  that  country  was  owned  by  eastern  capitalists,  he  had 
marked  the  money  which  he  paid  for  his  tickets  to  see  if  he  ever 
got  any  of  it  back  again.  "I  have  also,"  he  said,  "marked  the 
money  that  I  paid  ifor  home-made  goods  to  see  if  I  got  any  of  that 
back  again,  I  never  got  any  of  my  railroad  money  back,"  he  con- 
tinued, "but  one  reason  that  I  always  buy  home-made  goods  is  that 
I  think  a  whole  lot  of  George  L.  Farrell  and  I  like  to  get  my  money 
back  again,  and  time  and  time  again  when  I  have  bought  home- 
made goods  and  marked  the  money,  that  identical  money,  staying 
in  the  community  and  circulating  around,  has  come  back  to  me.  And 
it  is  because  I  think  a  great  deal  of  myself,  as  well  as  my  neighbors, 
that  I  buy  shoes  made  at  home  for  my  children,  that  I  buy  home- 
made cloth  out  of  which  to  make  clothes  for  those  children."  Then 
he  said :  "To  give  you  a  practical  illustration :  When  starting  for 
this  identical  conference,  standing  at  the  depot  at  Smithfield  I  saw 
a  man  who  had  made  some  shoes  for  my  children,  and  I  walked 
up  and  handed  him  five  dollars  to  pay  for  those  shoes ;  he  saw 
somebody  else  in  the  group  to  whom  he  owed  five  dollars,  and 
he  handed  him  the  five;  this  man  saw  another  to  whom  he  was 
indebted  and  handed  him  the  same  piece  of  money;  and  he  in  turn 
saw  another  man  and  handed  it  to  him.  until  finally  after  five  or 
six  debts  had  been  paid  with  the  same  piece  of  money  the  last  man 
to  receive  it  came  up  to  me  and  said,  'Brother  Farrell,  I  owe  you  six 
dollars.  Here  is  five  on  my  account' — and  I  put  my  home-made 
shoes  money  back  into'  my  trousers  pocket."  Twenty  or  thirty 
dollars'  worth  of  debts  were  thus  paid  by  patronizing  one  shoe- 
maker in  Smithfield,  the  money  was  saved  at  home  by  circulating 
around,  it  paid  these  many  debts  and  at  length  landed  back  into 
the  pocket  where  it  started  from.  That  was  a  practical  lesson, 
and  a  practical  lesson  that  ought  to  count. 

HOME  MANUFACTURED  GOODS 

It  would  be  a  very  easy  matter  to  increase  the  use  of  this 
one  product  in  this  country  by  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  dollars.  Before  me  is  an  audience  of  at  least  five  to  ten  thousand 
people,  and  I  would  like  to  know  how  many  of  you  are  standing,  or 
sitting  I  should  perhaps  say,  with  your  feet  in  home-made  shoes. 
I  dare  not  ask  those  of  you  who  are  thus  shod  to  stand  up — I  am 
afraid  the  showing  would  be  altogether  too  thin.  I  am  myself  stand- 
ing in  home-made  shoes ;  it  is  the  kind  I  have  been  standing  in 
for  over  thirty  years,  and  I  find  that  they  are  good  enough  for 
me.  Another  reason  why  I  like  them  is  that  they  wear  longer 
than  any  I  used  to  get  before  I  commenced  wearing  them,  and  in 
addition  to  wearing  longer  they  look  better ;  and  in  addition  to 
looking  better,  they  cost  less.  So  I  am  like  Brother  Farrell.  It 
is  not  altogether  patriotism,  it  is  because  I  think  a  whole  lot  of 
Heber  J.  Grant  that  I  wear  home-made  shoes.  I  have  been  con- 
verted to  home-made  goods  from  the  time  that,  as  a  young  man, 
I  heard  a  sermon  from  this  stand  by  Brigham  Young,  that  great 
leader,  that  man  of  wronderful  foresight  for  the  benefit  of  his  people 
spiritually,  financially,  and  intellectually,  one  of  the  greatest  pioneers 
and  most  remarkable  men  that  ever  lived.  In  passing  let  me  say  that  in 
conversing  with  a  great  banker  in  New  York  only  a  few  days  ago,  I 
made  the  remark  that  Brigham  Young  would  yet  be  recognized  as  one 
of  the  greatest  organizers  and  one  of  the  greatest  leaders  of  men  that 
ever  lived,  and  this  banker  replied  in  substance :  "There  is  no  one  who 
knows  anything  of  Brigham  Young's  history  that  does  not  acknowledge 
it  today.  I  do.  I  have  read  his  history  and  it  is  one  of  the  most  intensely 
interesting  books  I  have  ever  read."  And  my  belief  is  that  one  of 
th*  very  things  which  caused  the  banker  to  have  confidence  in  the 
Latter-day  Saints  today  was  that  many  years  ago  he  read  the  histoy 
of  Brigham  Young  and  was  impressed  by  the  wonderful  things  that 
had  been  accomplished  by  him. 

But  coming  back  to  the  sermon.  President  Young  pleaded  with 
the  people  to  support  the  Provo  Woolen  Mills ;  and  from  that  day  until 
these  mills  shut  down  some  years  agq,  I  never  bought  a  suit  of 
clothes  in  Salt  Lake  City  that  was  not  made  from  Provo  goods  which 
I  selected  and  handed  to  the  tailor  to  make  up  for  me.  I  was  honored 
once  with  being  in  the  legislature  when  we  gave  a  ball  to  the  members 
of  the  Wyoming  legislature.  I  was  wearing  at  the  time  a  gray  Provo 
suit;  and,  realizing  that  everybody  who  would  be  at  the  party  in  the 
Theatre  would  have  a  black  suit — a  swallow-tail  or  Prince  Albert, — ■ 
I  went  to  the  Z.  C.  M.  I.,  bought  me  a  black  suit,  Prince  Albert  coat.  I 
didn't  want  to  be  the  only  white  sheep  in  the  bunch,  and  so  went  to  the 
ball  in  black.  The  very  next  day  I  gave  it  away  to  a  poor  relative :  the 
ball  cost  me  thirty  odd  dollars — the  cost  of  a  black  suit.  A  friend  asked 
me,  "Why  didn't  you  wear  it  a  little  while,  and  get  a  little  benefit  out  of 
it  before  you  gave  it  to  your  neighbor?"  I  aswered  that  I  didn't  want 
to  have  the  suit  on  if  I  happened  to  want  to  preach  in  favor  of 
home-made  goods.  I  was  afraid  that  it  being  a  black  suit,  I  might 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


by  chance  wear  it  some  Sunday,  and  I  have  always  felt  that  I  would 
not  ask  the  people  to  do  anything  that  I  didn't  do  myself.  I  didn't 
know  until  yesterday  that  tne  Provo  Woolen  Mills  were  again 
making  cloth  for  suits  and  overcoats  and  I  clo  not  propose  to  buy  any 
overcoats  in  the  future  except  those  made  from  the  Knight  Woolen 
Mills  goods  or  some  other  Utah  establishment  which  is  making  them. 

BUY  HOME  MADE  GOODS 

I  call  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  buy  home-made  goods  of  every 
kind  that  they  can  possibly  get  here  at  home.  In  other  words,  let  cane 
sugar  alone  and  buy  some  beet  sugar.  Some  people  think  you  can't 
make  the  finest  kind  of  candy  unless  you  have  cane  sugar.  Well,  I 
have  been  guilty  of  swapping  sacks,  you  know,  and  lo  and  behold, 
Utah  beet  sugar  in  a  cane  sugar  sack  will  "jell"  all  right,  will 
make  all  kinds  of  candy ;  but  cane  sugar  in  a  Utah  beet  sugar  sack 
won't  do  any  of  these  things.  I  had  the  same  experience  years  ago 
with  soap.  As  a  young  man  I  was  agent  for  Franklin  M:acVeagh  & 
Co.'s  grocery  house,  of  Chicago.  The  soapmaker  employed  by  James 
A.  Kirk  &  Co.  had  left  that  firm  and  MacVeagh  &  Co.  secured  his  ser- 
vices and  proceeded  to  make  all  the  kinds  and  brands  of  soap  which 
he  had  been  making  for  his  former  firm.  There  was  a  good  hired 
woman  working  for  us  who  couldn't  read  English,  but  knew  all  the 
wrappers  on  the  Kirk  soap ;  and  she  insisted  she  couldn't  create  a 
lather  on  wash  day.  She  couldn't  wash  clothes  at  all  with  the  MacVeagh 
soap.  But  when  I  took  the  MacVeagh  soap  out  and  put  in  Kirk 
wrappers  she  declared  it  perfect ;  and  when  I  took  the  Kirk  soap  and 
put  it  in  MacVeagh  wrappers  the  poor  woman  again  insisted  she 
couldn't  lather  with  it. 

I  say  to  the  people,  buy  all  things  that  you  possibly  can 
which  are  produced  here  at  home.  No  section  of  the  inter-mountain 
country  has  been  hit  so  hard  financially  as  ours — Utah  and  southern 
Idaho — because  of  the  tremendous  slump  in  the  prices  of  the  pro- 
ducts of  the  soil  and  because  of  the  great  fall  in  live  stock  values.  I 
was  given  a  place  of  honor  as  state  chairman  and  I  esteemed  the 
privilege  of  calling  upon  the  people  to  subscribe  for  Liberty  bonds. 
I  went  to  California  with  Mr.  Farnsworth,  chairman  of  our  state 
defense  committee,  and  other  loyal,  patriotic,  men,  to  discuss  ways  and 
means  in  connection  with  raising  money  for  our  government  and  as 
chairman  of  the  Liberty  Loan  committee  for  Utah.  I  said  to  Mr. 
Lynch,  then  governor  of  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank :  "T  pledge  you  the 
absolute  loyalty  of  the  people  of  Utah.  I  promise  to  put  over  any 
requirement,  no  matter  how  much  it  is,  that  is  placed  on  the  people  of 
Utah,  on  one  condition,  and  that  is  that  you  will  give  us  a  federal 
reserve  branch  in  Salt  Lake  City.  We  haven't  got  the  resources,  we 
haven't  the  war  activities,  we  haven't  the  money.  But  we  have  the 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

i 

loyalty,  and  if  you  will  bring  the  bank  there,  we  will  borrow  the 
money  and  we  will  do  our  share.  The  Bank  organized  a  bank  and  they 
expected  that  five  or  six  clerks,  ten  at  the  most,  were  all  they  would 
need  for  some  time;  and  it  was  a  little  less  than  five  months,  as  I 
remember  it,  when  we  were  owing  that  branch  bank,  because  of 
financial  distress,  between  forty  and  fifty  millions  of  dollars.  We 
did  our  duty.  Then  since  the  slump  came,  inasmuch  as  it  was  all 
borrowed  money,  it  is  wearing  the  life  out  of  us  to  pay  the  interest. 
I  have  conversed  with  men  from  San  Franisco  and  they  acknowledge 
that  this  inter-mountain  country  has  been  hit  hardest  because  of 
difficulty  in  getting  our  products  to  market.  Our  distance  from 
market  creates  a  discrimination — not  that  I  am  blaming  this  all  upon 
the  freight .  rates,  which  are  costing  us  heavily,  being  in  some  cases 
almost  prohibitive.  But  if  we  have  to  suffer  in  having  to  pay  so  much 
10  get  our  goods  to  far-away  markets,  if  we  are  suffering  more  than 
most  other  sections  in  this  respect,  all  the  more  reason  to  avail  our- 
selves of  the  great  relief  and  remedy  that  will  come  from  our  purchas- 
ing and  using  every  single  solitary  article  that  can  be  made  at  home. 
Now,  I  am  not  getting  any  commission  for  talking  home  manufactured' 
goods ;  but  I  feel  that  it  is  clearly  for  the  people's  financial  benefit  that 
they  should  support  home-made  goods  to  the  fullest  possible  extent. 

CO-OPERATION  ADVISED 

I  have  been  much  delighted  with  the  splendid  work  that  President 
Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  is  doing  in  trying  to  arrange  for  a  co-operation  so 
that  our  alfalfa,  which  is  quarantined  and  cannot  be  shipped  away, 
can  be  utilized  by  the  people  who  have  livestock  to  feed.  I  would 
rejoice  if  we  could  mature  our  livestock,  quit  killing  the  lambs  and 
the  breeding  cattle,  and  arrange  to  feed  our  stock  here  at  home. 
I  commend  all  the  co-operative  work  in  this  direction  that  is  going  on, 
and  hope  that  the  farmer  and  the  stockraiser  can  get  together  and  use 
up  all  the  hay  and  other  products  of  the  soil  for  the  feeding  of  our  own 
stock  instead  of  carrying  these  products  over  for  another  year.  As 
an  illustration  of  the  imposition  in  being  obliged  to  pay  so  much 
for  mutton,  I  ordered  a  couple  of  muttonchops — 80  cents — during  my 
recent  trip  east;  and  while  I  haven't  such  a  fearfully  large  mouth, 
I  honestly  believe  I  could  have  taken  one  of  them  entire  in  just  one 
bite,  if  I  had  cut  the  meat  off  the  bone— two  bites — forty  cents  a  bite- 
On  other  occasions,  I  ordered  and  paid  for  chops  which  I  am  sure 
I  could  have  got  in  my  mouth  without  the  least  trouble  in  the  world, 
in  two  bites  to  a  chop— twenty  cents  a  bite.  Now,  when  you  think  of 
the  stock-raiser  having  to  sell  his  ewe  lambs  and  getting  about  five 
cents  a  pound,  it  will  be  evident  that  the  time  has  come  when  we 
need  a  little  co-operation  between  the  man  who  is  running  the  res- 
taurant, the  man  who  js  running  the  meat  shop,  the  man  who  has 
hay  and  grain,  and  the  man  who  has  got  mutton  for  sale.  Perhaps 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


some  of  us  then  could  raise  enough  money  so  that  instead  of  getting 
two  bites  for  eighty  cents,  we  might  get  three  chops  for  a  meal 
instead  of  two  and  get  them  for  thirty  or  forty  cents. 

CHARITY  ENJOINED 

We  want  to  try  to  get  back  to  first  principles,  and  to  co-operate 
to  carry  out  that  second  great  commandment.  The  first  is  to  love  the 
Lord  our  God  with  all  our  heart,  with  all  our  might,  mind  and 
strength ;  and  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  to  love  our  neighbor  as 
ourselves.  Let  us  be  charitable  in  these  hard  times.  Let  us  not  oppress 
our  brothers  who  may  be  owing  us  a  little,  if  we  can  possibly  avoid  it. 
Let  us  be  hopeful  and  cheerful  and  happy.  Why,  we  are  in  a  magnifi- 
cent condition  in  comparison  with  the  time  when  the  crickets  were 
destroying  the  crops  of  our  fathers  and  mothers.  We  are  in  a  mag- 
nificent condition  in  comparison  with  the  early  days  when  people 
went  around  bare-footed,  when  they  had  one  suit  of  clothes,  when 
they  had  one  pound  of  butter  in  a  whole  year,  as  some  of  us  did  in 
our  houses.  Let  us  study  economy,  let  us  be  kind  and  charitable,  and 
above  all,  let  us  serve  God  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  be  honest 
in  our  tithes  and  offerings,  liberal  in  doing  these  things  with  our 
means  that  shall  be  for  the  benefit  and  uplift  of  God's  kingdom. 
May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  pour  out  his  Spirit  abundantly  upon  us 
during  this  conference  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Since  our  last  conference  new  stake  presidents  have  been  appointed 
as  follows: 

President  Thomas  L.  Allen,  Summit  stake. 
President  Wallace  Calder,  Uintah  stake. 
President  John  V.  Bluth,  North  Weber  stake. 

New  wards  have  been  organized  as  follows  : 
Logan  Twelfth  ward,  Logan  stake. 
Fairview  North  ward,  North  Sanpete  stake. 
Escalante  South  ward,  Garfield  stake. 
Topence  ward,  Idaho  stake. 

There  have  been  new  independent  branches  organized: 

Boulder  branch,  Garfield  stake. 

Standardville  branch,  Carbon  stake. 

Kenilworth  branch,  Carbon  stake. 

Rains  branch,  Carbon  stake. 

Soldier  Summit  branch,  Utah  stake. 

Gro.vont  branch,  Teton  stake. 

Jackson  branch,  Teton  'stake. 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Wilson  branch,  Teton  stake. 
Ophir  branch,  Tooele  stake. 
Mackay  branch,  Lost  River  stake. 

We  have  to  announce  the  death  of  President  Orville  L.  Thompson, 
president  of  the  Millard  stake  of  Zion,  a  man  of  devotion  as  a  president 
of  the  stake,  an  honorable,  upright  member  of  many  sessions  of  the 
legislature,  a  splendid  father,  husband  and  Latter-day  Saint.  We  ex- 
tend to  his  wife  and  family  the  sympathy  of  all  of  the  people  here 
assembled. 

Bishops  who  have  died: 

Bishop  Clyde  A.  Hammond,  Moab  ward,  San  Juan  stake. 
Bishop  Isaac  C.  McFarlane,  St.  George  East,  St.  George  stake. 
Bishop  Frederick  W.  Passey,  Lanark  ward,  Bear  Lake  stake. 
Bishop  Robert  Siddoway,  Rockport  ward,  Summit  stake. 
Bishop  Henry  K.  Thatcher,  Thatcher  Second   ward,  Bannock 
stake ;  also  was  Bannock  Stake  Clerk. 

Mission  presidents  released : 
George  Albert  Smith,  European  mission. 
Nicholas  G.  Smith,  South  African  mission. 
Theodore  Tobiason,  Swedish  mission. 

Mission  presidents  appointed : 
Orson  F.  Whitney,  European  mission. 
J.  Wyley  Sessions,  South  African  mission. 
Isaac  P.  Thunell,  Swedish  mission. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

I  cannot  express  fully  my  gratitude  to  God  and  my  brethren 
for  the  opportunity  I  have  of  being  present  on  this  great  occasion. 
The  Lord  knows  my  heart  and  he  knows  my  desires  and  intents, 
and  he  has  abundantly  blessed  me,  and  I  acknowledge  his  hand  this 
morning  in  my  presence  in  this  congregation.  During  part  of  the 
time  that  has  elapsed  since  our  April  Conference  in  this  building,  I 
have  passed  through  a  time  of  severe  bodily  affliction,  something  to 
which  I  haven't  been  very  much  accustomed  during  my  eventful 
life,  but  I  suffered  very  severely,  and  it  seemed  to  me  that  I  was 
approaching  very  closely  to  the  gates  that  we  sing  about  sometimes. 
President  Grant  came  to  me  at  my  bedroom  one  morning  and  told  me 
that  I  had  to  get  up  out  of  that  bed  and  go  down  to  the  coast  and 
spend  a  month  there.  Well,  I  almost  laughed  in  his  face  at  the  idea, 
but  he  said  I  could  go  and  he  would  see  to  my  transportation  all 
right,  I  need  not  worry  about  that,  and  to  cut  the  story  short  I  found 
it  advisable  for  me  to  carry  out  good  counsel.  I  made  the  effort  and 
succeeded.  I  did  as  he  requested  me  and  stayed  as  long  as  I  thought 
I  ought  to  stay  there,  having  been  encouraged  by  him  and  President 
Ivins  so  to  do,  and  returned  when  I  thought  the  time  had  properly 
arrived  for  me  to  come  home,  and  here  I  am  this  morning,  revived 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  15 


in  spirit  as  well  as  in  body,  and  filled  with  gratitude  and  thanks- 
giving to  God  and  my  brethren  and  sisters  who  prayed  for  me. 

FAITH   THE  BEGINNING  OF  OUR  RELIGION. 

I  know  that  I  had  the  faith  and  prayers  of  a  great  many  of  my 
friends  and  I  thank  them  for  the  exercise  of  their  faith,  that  faith 
which  I  believe  and  hope  will  abide  always,  as  we  have  heard  in  the 
song.  That  is  the  beginning  of  our  religion,  faith,  real  faith  in  the 
true  and  living  God.  Faith  in  a  false  god  does  not  amount  to  much, 
Still  it  is  better  to  believe  in  some  kind  of  a  god  or  supreme  being, 
to  whom  we  feel  we  owe  allegiance,  than  to  have  no  faith  at  all. 
But  true  faith,  living  faith,  which  brings  forth  works,  in  the  right 
God,  the  only  living  and  true  God,  our  Eternal  Father,  is  a  great 
thing,  and  it  is  the  gift  of  God  that  is  given  to  all  his  children  in  their 
very  nature  and  being  as  his  sons  and  daughters.  That  is  the  beginning 
of  the  religion  that  is  called  "Mormonism."  "We  believe  in  God  the 
Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost." 
That  is  the  first  article  of  our  belief  as  expressed  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  in  the  reasons  that  he  gave  for  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  which  we  hold  today  and  repeat  in  our  Sunday  Schools 
and  in  many  of  our  gatherings. 

What  a  blessed  thing  it  is  to  have  real  faith  and  confidence  in 
that  Being  who  is  the  Author  of  our  lives,  from  whom  we  received  our 
organized  spiritual  existence.  The  elements  as  he  has  told  us,  are 
eternal.  The  elements  of  our  bodies,  as  well  as  of  our  spirits,  have 
no  beginning.  They  always  were,  they  always  will  be.  It  is  a  great 
consolation  to  know  that  fact,  a  fact  that  we  are  not  beings  of  a 
moment,  as  it  were,  but  we  are  eternal  in  our  nature,  that  we  are 
of  eternal  existence  from  an  eternal  parentage,  and  that  we  can 
approach  our  Father,  and  that  our  spirits  can  reach  out  to  him  and 
have  communion  with  him,  that  we  can  realize  our  relationship  to 
him,  and  his  to  us,  and  know  that  he  is  mindful  of  us  as  his  off- 
spring. For  the  spirit  of  man  is  the  offspring  of  God.  It  is  through 
the  exercise  of  faith  in  my  behalf  by  my  friends,  and  my  own  faith, 
that  I  recovered  from  my  sickness,  and  I  was  benefited  greatly  by 
the  breezes  of  the  ocean  down  by  the  beach  near  Los  Angeles.  The 
real  revivification  that  has  come  to  me  has  been  by  the  spiritual  life, 
the  spirit  that  proceeds  from  our  Father  throughout  the  immensity 
of  space,  which,  as  he  has  told  us,  gives  life  to  all  things  that  have 
life,  which  is  light  also,  as  well  as  life,  which  is  the  Spirit  of  Christ 
in  which  we  are  told,  he  is  in  the  sun  and  the  moon  and  the  stars  and 
in  the  earth  on  which  we  stand,  and  by  which  God  has  told  us  he 
made  the  worlds  through  and  by  his  Son,  "and  the  inhabitants  there- 
of are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

The  living  faith  that  we  have  in  that  Being  is  our  supporter  un- 
der every  circumstance.  In  the  darkest  hours  we  have  spent  in 
our  mortal  lives,  or  as  a  community,  in  the  tribulations  and  trials 
through  which  the  Church  has  passed,  we  could  approach  to  him, 
the  Author  of  our  being,  our  Father,  and  feel,  as  Jesus  of  Naz- 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


areth  did  when  he  was  in  the  flesh,  that  he  is  our  Father  and 
that  we  can  come  to  him  and  he  will  lean  to  us.  The  Lord  says : 
"Seek  unto  me  saith  the  Lord,  and  I  will  draw  near  unto  you."  That 
is  a  great  truth  that  the  Latter-day  Saints,  I  think,  understand  pretty 
well,  or  they  are  coming  to  understand.  It  is  a  reality  and  should  be 
impressed  upon  our  offspring,  our  children,  our  little  children. 
Mothers  and  fathers  should  have  this  fact  impressed  upon  them,  that 
"while  they  have  fathers  of  the  flesh,"  as  the  Apostle  Paul  puts  it, 
"and  we  gave  them  reverence,  how  much  rather  should  we  have 
reverence  for  him  who  is  the  Father  of  spirits  and  live."  Teach  your 
children  real  faith  in  a  real  God,  a  person,  a  being  who  exists  and 
who  understands  all  our  feelings-  and  our  emotions,  having  passed 
through  the  experiences  that  we  are  now  passing  through  and  who 
is  the  very  embodiment  of  everything  that  is  right  and  true  and 
good  throughout  the  whole  universe,  all  that  is  pure,  all  that  is  en- 
lightening, all  that  is  intelligent,  all  that  is  sympathetic,  all  that  there 
is  in  life,  and  faith  and  truth  are  embodied  in  him,  and  he  is  the  ex- 
pression of  these  eternal  verities  to  us.  What  a  blessing  it  is  today  that 
we  have  that  faith,  that  has  been  sung  about  here,  which  shall  abide 
always. 

Now  these  three,  Paul  taught,  "faith,  hope  and  charity  shall 
abide."  Faith  must  abide  in  our  hearts  under  every  circumstance  in 
which  we  operate,  individually  and  as  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  And  it  is  by  that  faith  that  the 
elders  whom  we  have  been  hearing  about  go  out  into  the  mission 
world  to  proclaim  the  truth,  to  bear  witness  of  the  fatherhood  of 
God  and  the  brotherhood  of  man,  and  to  bear  testimony  that  our 
Father  has  spoken  in  these  last  days,  as  he  spoke  many  times 
anciently,  and  that  he,  who  is  the  Father  of  Jesus  Christ  and  who 
spake  through  him  in  the  meridian  of  time,  spake  to  and  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  these  last  days  and  that  his  Son  has  been 
teaching,  through  that  prophet  and  his  successors,  right  along  down, 
from  the  time  when  the  boy  Joseph  offered  that  glorious  prayer 
of  faith  in  the  Grove.  He  is  our  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  is  his 
spokesman.  All  that  has  been  revealed  to  the  children  of  men  from 
time  to  time  has  been  done  through  that  agency,  that  sonship,  the 
voice  of  God  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear 
him,"  has  been  the  policy  of  our  Father  from  the  beginning  of  the 
organization  of  this  Church.  It  was  through  his  Son  and  by  his 
Son,  that  this  earth  was  framed.  It  is  through  him  and  by  him  that 
all  the  revelations  God  has  given  to  mankind,  have  come  to  the 
human  family,  and  he  is  today  at  the  head  of  this  Church,  representing 
the  Father,  and  he  can  speak  for  the  Father,  and  the  Holy  Ghost  can 
speak  for  both,  and  bear  witness  of  the  truth  in  the  hearts  of  the 
children  of  men. 

MISSIONARY   WORK   AND  MEANS. 

One  matter  that  President  Grant  has  touched  upon  this  morning 
is  this  work  of  our  boys,  and  mothers  and  fathers,  younger  men  and 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  17 


older  men,  who  go  out  into  the  world  without  money  and  without  price, 
so  far  as  payment  is  concerned,  spending  their  own  money  or  their  par- 
ents' money,  and  sometimes,  I  am  afraid,  spending  it  a  little  too  lavish- 
ly. Boys  that  go  out  into  the  mission  field  ought  not  to  go  with  the 
feeling  that  they  have  at  their  command  large  sums  of  money.  There 
is  no  need  for  it.  It  is  true  that  it  costs  a  good  deal  more  now  to 
pay  the  expenses  of  a  missionary  abroad  than  it  used  to  do  in 
former  times.  In  my  early  labors,  in  fact  nearly  all  that  I  have  done 
in  foreign  lands  as  a  missionary,  was  done  under  the  old  law  of 
no  purse  and  no  scrip.  When  I  went'  out  first  as  a  boy  I  took  nothing 
with  me  but  the  clothes  I  had  on,  except  a  bundle  of  tracts  and  a 
pair  of  pants  and  a  shirt  to  use  in  baptizing.  I  had  faith  I  could  bring 
people  into  the  Church,  and  I  wanted  something  I  could  put  on  to 
baptize  them  in.  I  had  use  for  those  things  and  I  did  the  work  just 
as  I  have  said.  Indeed,  all  my  ministry  among  the  people  of  the  world 
was  literally  "without  purse  or  scrip."  Now  I  do  not  say  that  this 
should  be  done  now.  I  believe  that  as  circumstances  change,  the 
Lord  changes  his  commandments,  to  correspond  therewith.  As  Jesus 
taught,  a  great  many  of  you  who  went  out  in  the  world  took  "neither 
brass  nor  gold  nor  silver  in  your  purses,  nor  scrip  for  your  journey, 
nor  two  coats,  "for  the  laborer  is  worthy  of  his  hire,"  but  afterwards 
he  said:  "When  I  sent  you  out  without  purse  or  scrip,  did  you  lack 
anything?  And  they  said,  Nay,  Lord,"  but  now  he  said,  "He  that 
has  no  purse  let  him  get  one  and  he  that  hath  no  sword  let  him  buy 
one."  Circumstances  had  changed  and  so  the  word  was  changed.  He 
didn't  change,  but  the  circumstances  being  changed  the  word  of  the 
Lord  was  different.  So  in  these  times  conditions  have  changed  very 
much  from  those  times. 

We  find  it  necessary  to  have  the  boys  go  out  two  and  two. 
Sometimes  one  of  them  is  a  poor  boy  comparatively,  has  no  money, 
or  very  little,  and  the  other  has  plenty.  It  is  a  rather  difficult  con- 
dition for  the  poor  boy,  but  they  have  to  lodge  together  and  divide 
expenses,  and'  this  should  be  regulated  by  prudence,  by  economy, 
by  wisdom,  and  the  parents  should  see  to  it  that  their  boys  are  not 
given  too  much  money  and  that  the  others  who  are  more  poorly  supplied 
are  assisted  so  that  they  don't  have  too  little  money;  but,  generally 
speaking,  I  think  our  missionaries,  in  these  latter  days,  are  in  many 
respects  too  well  favored  with  money  to  spend.  They  are  not  sent 
out  for  the  purpose  of  indulging  in  seeing  the  sights  of  the  world, 
of  going  to  motion  picture  shows,  theatres,  and  other  places  of 
amusement,  although  occasionally  something  of  that  kind  is  all  right, 
but  that  is  not  the  object.  What  they  are  sent  out  for  is  to  carry  with 
them  that  abiding  faith  in  God,  and  preach  it  to  the  people,  that  he 
is  the  same  yesterday,  today  and  forever,  that  he  can  be  approached, 
that  he  has  laws  and  commandments  and  ordinances  which  he  re- 
quires people  who  desire  to  come  to  him,  to  attend  to  in  the  right 
way,  and  under  proper  authority.  They  go  out  for  that  purpose,  and 
that  should  be  their  object,  and  be  their  main  object.  After  they  have 
been  in  the  field  for  awhile,  it  gets  to  be  so,  even  if  it  is  not  so  in  the 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


beginning,  some  of  our  boys,  who  have  done  things  that  are  wrong, 
who  have  not  kept  themselves  as  straight  as  they  should  be  as  the 
offspring  of  Latter-day  Saints,  after  they. have  been  in  the  mission 
field  for  a  little  while,  begin  to  get  their  hearts  softened,  and  in 
humility  and  faith  in  God  they  go  and  confess  their  wrong-doings 
to  their  presiding  officers.  When  they  can  be  forgiven,  through  full 
repentance  and  change  of  life,  that  blessing  is  extended  to  them. 
When  they  are  still  hardened  in  their  hearts  and  prone  to  do  wrong 
they  have  to  be  sent  home,  of  course. 

THE  SPIRIT,  NOT  THE  FLESH,  SHOULD  GOVERN. 

Now,  they  should  be  taught  from  their  childhood  to  preserve  the 
purity  of  their  lives  and  bodies,  to  act  with  purity  of  conduct  always, 
and  especially  in  their  association  with  the  other  sex.  This  should 
be  in  the  minds  of  our  parents  and  they  should  instil  it  into  the 
minds  of  their  boys  and  girls.  God  is  a  being  of  purity,  he  is  sacred 
and  holy,  and  sacred  and  holy  be  his  Name,  and  sacred  and  holy 
should  we,  his  servants,  be  in  all  our  conduct  while  we  dwell  upon 
the  earth  in  the  flesh,  and  we  should  learn  the  great  lesson  of  the 
spirit  governing  the  flesh  instead  of  permitting  the  flesh  to  govern 
the  spirit.  These  are  simple  truths  that  should  be  impressed  upon  the 
minds  of  our  little  children  that  they  may  grow  up  in  that  spirit 
and  in  that  supreme  faith  in  God  which  is  at  the  foundation  of  our 
religion. 

FAITH    AND    PURITY   TO   BE   TAUGHT    IN    THE  HOME. 

This  should  be  taught  in  the  household,  or  privately,  by  the 
mothers  to  their  girls,  and  the  fathers  to  their  boys,  and  they  should 
grow  up  in  that  atmosphere.  Let  us  see  to  that,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, so  that  in  our  homes  that  faith  shall  prevail,  faith  in  God,  real 
true  faith,  coming  from  the  soul,  from  the  heart,  in  God  our  Eternal 
Father,  and  impress  that  upon  our  children,  and  they  will  grow  up 
in  the  favor  of  the  Lord  and  be  ready  to  serve  in  his  great  latter-day 
work,  and  there  is  no  work  like  it  in  the  world.  The  privilege  of  a 
man  holding  the  Holy  Priesthood,  of  being  an  elder  in  the  Church 
of  Christ,  ordained  to  preach  the  gospel,  to  administer  baptism  for  . 
the  remission  of  sins,  to  lay  his  hands  upon  the  baptized  believer 
and  say,  "receive  the  Holy  Ghost,"  that  is  a  wonderful  thing,  but  it 
is  bestowed  upon  our  missionary  boys  and  if  they  grow  up  in  the 
fear  of  the  Lord,  in  full  faith  in  him,  wherever  they  go  they  will 
carry  a  power  with  them  in  the  world  that  is  not  possessed  by  other 
men.  We  want  it  at  home*  right  here  where  we  live.  Every  boy  and 
every  girl  born  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  should  grow  up  in  that 
spirit  of  purity. 

Let  us  see  to  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  carry  this 
out,  every  ordinance  and  every  counsel  that  comes  from  the  mouth 
of  God  for  our  guidance  and  direction.  This  is  what  we  should  do. 
"Man,"  said  Jesus  Christ,  "should  not  live  by  bread  alone,  but  by 
every  word  that  proceedeth  from  the  mouth  of  God."  That  is  the 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 


19 


celestial  law.  When  we  do  that  we  are  living  the  celestial  law  and 
we  shall  gain  celestial  glory  if  we  continue  to  abide  in  it,  for  by 
abiding  in  these  things  we  sanctify  our  nature,  we  make  our  bodies  and 
our  spirits  serve  God,  and  come  in  subjection  to  his  law  and 
his  influence  and  Spirit-,  which  proceed  from  him,  and  our  bodies 
become  so  sanctified  that  they  are  capable  of  being  quickened  in  the 
resurrection  by  a  celestial  glory,  and  if  we  do  not  live  in  accordance 
with  such  law  we  cannot  gain  a  celestial  glory.  That  should  be  in  our 
minds,  and  we  should  teach  it  to  our  children. 

OUR  DUTY  TO  LOVE  GOD  AND  SERVE  HIM  XN  THE  NAME  OF  JESUS  CHRIST. 

Now,  there  is  a  law,  as  our  President  declared  to  us,  that  we 
shall  love  God  with  all  our  heart,  and  might,  and  mind',  and  strength. 
God  told  that  to  the  people  anciently.  It  is  also  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  It  was  told  to  the  first  settlers  in  Zion:  "The  land  of 
Zion"  which  is  to  be  consecrated  to  be  inhabited  by  the  Saints  where 
the  great  temple  of  God  shall  be  reared,  upon  which  "the  glory 
of  God  shall  rest."  The  Lord  told  the  people  there  in  the  very  be- 
ginning of  their  settlement  to  love  him  "with  all  their  heart  and 
soul  and  mind  and  strength ;  and,  said  he,  "in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  shalt  thou  serve  him."  Don't  forget  that,  my  brethren.  We 
serve  God  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  That  is  his  full  name.  That 
is  his  name  which  was  given  anciently.  You  can  read  it  in  the  Pearl 
of'  Great  Price.  That  is  the  name  given  in  the  latter  days.  It  is  in 
nearly  every  revelation  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants :  "Listen  to 
the  voice  of  Jesus  Christ;"  we  are  to  love  God  with  all  our  hearts 
and  serve  him  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  ordinances  we  per- 
form, all  the  prayers  we  offer,  all  that  we  do  as  servants  of  God 
in  this  Church,  should  be  done  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  it 
is  his  Church,  and  he  stands  really  at  its  head.  Then  we  are  told 
that  we  should  love  our  neighbors,  also,  as  ourselves.  What  a  good 
thing  it  would  be  for  Latter-day  Saints,  if  we  all  carried  out  that  law, 
would  it  not? 

FINANCE   CIRCULATION  PAY   WHAT   THOU  0WEST. 

This  morning,  when  President  Grant  was  illustrating  so  beauti- 
fully the  circulation  of  the  blood  in  the  body  of  man,  and  the  circula- 
tion in  finance  which  he  also  touched  upon,  the  thought  I  had  in 
my  mind  was  this :  yes,  if  that  blood  is  good,  but  it  would  not  be 
much  good  if  it  wasn't  circulating.  If  it  remained  there — sometimes 
a  clot  of  blood  comes  into  a  part  of  the  body  and  it  brings  about 
death  instead  of  life,  because  it  impedes  the  circulation.  I  was  wonder- 
ing if  there  wasn't  a  good  deal  of  money  owned  by  our  people 
tucked  away  somewhere  "against  a  rainy  day."  You  know  this  is  a 
threatening  time,  and  we  are  very  much  perplexed,  the  banks  are 
tied  up,  so  to  speak — they  have  money  no  doubt  locked  up  some- 
where, I  think  so,  but  that  is  their  business.  If  we  have,  and  we  are 
owing  anything  to  anybody ;  pay  what  thou  owest,  I  believe  it  is  a 
good  injunction  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  today,  and  if  all  people  who 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


owe  money  to  any  of  their  brethren,  or  to  people  that  are  not  their 
brethren,  or  of  their  brethren,  still  unpaid,  to^  pull  that  money  out 
of  that  old  stocking  and  out  of  that  box  locked  up  in  a  bank,  and  pay 
your  debts.  I  believe  it  would  make  a  great  change  financially  among 
our  people.  There  are  many  people  in  debt  to  their  neighbors  and  they 
don't  love  their  neighbors  as  they  ought  to  love  them.  Take  out  that 
money  and  put  it  into  circulation,  and  then  it  will  accomplish  much 
of  what  President  Grant  was  referring  to  in  that  little  story  about 
Brother  Farrell.  I  have  heard  him  tell  that  before  and  it  is  very 
striking.  It  is  circulation  of  the  blood  that  feeds  the  body.  It  is  cir- 
culation of  money  that  feeds  the  body  of  finance,  and  we  cannot  get 
along  as  a  community  and  be  as  great,  wealthy,  and  strong  as  we 
would  be  if  we  would  circulate  what  we  have. 

THE   PRIESTHOOD    ENTITLED   TO  INSPIRATION. 

We  have  met  here,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  worship  God,  the 
true  and  living  God,  and  I  feel  that  he  will  accept  our  offering.  I 
feel  that  he  is  here  by  the  presence  of  his  Holy  Spirit,  that  he  is 
here  in  the  presence  of  these  good  men  who  have  been  laboring 
in  the  various  stakes  of  Zion  and  the  wards  of  the  bishoprics,  and 
in  the  mission  fields.  In  their  personality,  there  is  the  spirit  and 
power  of  God  and  authority  in  the  holy  Priesthood  to  minister  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord.  What  a  great  influential  body  there  is  here 
today  in  this  congregation !  I  realize  it,  I  feel  it.  I  believe  in  it  with 
all  my  heart,  and  I  know  that  this  power  that  God  has  revealed  in 
the  latter  days  and  which  is  sent  down  out  of  heaven  upon  the  earth 
for  the  salvation  of  mankind  is  a  reality,  and  we,  all  of  us,  can  have 
it  to  the  extent  of  the  authority  to  which  we  are  ordained.  Every  man 
ordained  to  any  office  in  this  Priesthood  is  entitled  to  the  spirit  and 
power  of  that  office,  and  he  can  have  it  if  he  will  live  in  accordance 
with  that  which  it  teaches,  if  he  will  live  in  accordance  with  the 
inspiration  that  it  brings,  for  the  Spirit  of  God  whispers  to  the  soul 
of  man,  and  he  can  know  the  "still  small  voice."  It  doesn't  come 
always  in  great  manifestations. 

REMEMBER  THE  LORD  BOTH   IN  JOY  AND  SORROW. 

I  am  pleased  when  people  have  definite  manifestations,  no  matter 
how  material  they  seem  to  be.  I  believe  there  is  a  good  deal  of  thinking 
on  these  things  in  the  world,  and  sometimes  in  the  Church.  Imagina- 
tion goes  a  great  way,  sometimes,  but  there  is  a  link  between  every 
man  ordained  to  the  Priesthood  and  his  God,  and  that  link  ought  not 
to  be  sundered,  it  ought  not  to  be  weakened.  We  should  live  in 
harmony,  in  union,  in  communion,  with  him  who  is  our  living  Head, 
and  he  will  not  forsake  us  either  in  days  of  trouble  or  pain  or  sick- 
ness or  anything  else.  By  the  way,  we  ought  not  to  leave  our  prayers 
and  our  devotions  to  the  time  of  trouble  and  of  sickness  and  difficulty, 
but  go  to  the  Lord  when  we  are  happy,,  when  our  souls  are  full  of 
joy  and  gladness,  for  he  loves  a  cheerful  countenance.  He  does  not 
like  very  loud,  noisy  laughter — he  says  that  is  sin,  but  he  likes  to 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  21 


see  a  "cheerful  countenance,"  when  people  come  to  worship  him  in 
the  beauty  of  holiness,  with  a  smile  upon  their  faces  and  gladness  in 
their  hearts.  Let  us  not  forget  the  Lord  when  we  are  glad,  when  we  are 
happy,  and  go  to  him  and  with  all  our  hearts  thank  and  praise  his 
holy  name  for  the  mercies  we  enjoy,  for  we  are  a  blessed  people. 

WE  ARE  WONDERFULLY  BLESSED  AS  A  PEOPLE. 

Separate  and  apart  from  all  these  blessings  that  pertain  to  the 
affairs  of  the  holy  Priesthood  and  to  the  congregations  of  the  Saints 
when  they  meet  to  partake  of  the  sacrament  and  to  worship  God, 
as  a  community,  we  are  blessed  wonderfully  when  we  come  to  compare 
our  conditions  to  that  condition  which  we  had  in  the  days  referred 
to  by  President  Grant.  I  couldn't  help  thinking,  this  morning,  about 
a  little  thing  that  occurred  in  the  ward  that  I  belonged  to  once.  I 
shan't  tell  where  it  was-  And  that  was  in  those  days  of  scarcity ;  when 
we  wanted  to  have  a  dance.  The. boys  usually  contributed  some  tallow 
candles  to  be  placed  on  the  ward  house  walls  for  lights.  One  evening 
some  of  the  girls  took  the  notion  that  they  ought  to  be  up  with  "out- 
side" customs  which  required  waxed  floors.  So  they  used  some  of  the 
candles  and  "waxed"  the  floor  with  tallow,  and  you  can  guess  what 
was  the  condition  some  of  the  girls  were  in  when  they  slipped  down 
on  the  floor  with  their  nice  best  dresses  on.  But  this  illustrates  the 
kind  of  straits  to  which  we  were  put  at  that  time,  and  those  early 
days  are  right  before  my  m'ind,  and  ,1  can  contrast  them  with  the 
conditions  which  surround  us  at  present.  Here  we  are  blessed  of  the  Lord 
financially,  temporally ;  we  have  better  homes,  we  have  better  clothes — 
I  don't  say  that  they  are  better  than  the  home-made,  mind  you ;  I 
endorse  what  Brother  Grant  has  said  about  home  manufacture — and 
we  are  blessed  very  abundantly,  and  should  be  filled  with  gratitude 
for  these  blessings,  these  good  things  we  have.  The  Saints  are  able 
to  come  up  here  from  distant  parts  now  with  ease  and  comfort.  In  old 
times  when  I  left  home  to  come  here  a  long  distance,  I  came  with  an 
ox-team  or  sometimes  on  "Shanks'  pony,"  and  I  rejoiced  when  I  got 
here.  But  today  our  people  are  blessed  with  means  of  transportation 
which  are  so  far  ahead  of  the  old  ways  that  we  should  be  filled  with 
thanksgiving.  Let  us  praise  the  Lord  in  our  hearts  and  in  our  works, 
for  that  is  the  way  to  praise  him.  Our  faith  should  be  exhibited  in  our 
works.  What  there  is  to  do  in  our  accepted  fields  of  labor  at  home  or 
abroad  should  be  done  with  all  our  minds  and  might  and  strength. 
"What  thy  hand  doeth  today,"  said  the  old  preacher  "do  it  with  thy 
might."  Yes,  put  your  soul  into  your  work,  whatever  it  is,  brethren 
and  sisters,  members  of  auxiliary  societies  as  well  as  members  of  the 
different  quorums  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  and  be  willing  and  obed- 
ient, because  it  is  the  willing  as  well  as  obedient  that  are  to  get  the 
fruits  of  the  land. 

DETERMINE   TO    SERVE    GOD   AND    KEEP    HIS  COMMANDMENTS. 

Now  let  us  who  are  here  together  this  morning  make  up  our 
minds  when  we  go  back  to  our  fields  of  labor,  or  respective  abodes,  to 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


feel  that  we  will  serve  our  Father,  that  we  will  keep  his  command- 
ments, that  we  will  walk  in  his  ways,  that  we  will  unite  with  our 
brethren,  that  we  will  forgive  our  friends  of  their  trespasses  as  we 
hope  to  be  forgiven  of  ours,  and  that  we  will  love  the  Lord  and 
devote  ourselves  with  all  our  might,  mind  and  strength,  and  all  the 
powers  that  we  have  and  the  means  that  come  into  our  hands,  to 
the  building  up  of  this  Latter-day  kingdom.  It  is  the  greatest  thing 
on  earth,  brethren  and  sisters.  It  is  the  grandest  thing  that  ever 
has  graced  this  globe,  and  it  will  abide  and  continue,  and  will  not 
perish  or  fall  away,  neither  will  it  be  trampled  under  foot,  neither  will 
it  be  overcome  by  the  evil  power.  It  will  abide  and  continue  to  grow 
and  increase  and  spread  forth  and  some  of  us  will  live  to  see  it,  and 
if  we  don't  live  in  the  flesh,  we  will  live  out  of  the  flesh,  and  we  will 
learn  about  it. 

CROWNED   WITH    GLORY,    IM  MORTALITY,   AND   ETERNAL  LIVES. 

President  Grant  spoke  this  morning  about  some  of  our  good, 
faithful  brethren  passing  away.  They  are  not  lost  to  this  Church. 
They  have  gone  where  they  ought  to  be.  They  will  labor  there  as 
well  as  they  labored  here,  in  a  different  capacity  perhaps,  but  they 
will  labor  for  this  same  great  cause  and  all  the  good  men  who  depart 
from  us  and  go  behind  the  veil  are  engaged  and  organized,  and  are 
in  the  Latter-day  work,  and  they  will  add  to  our  strength,  if  we 
will  live  so  that  they  can  come  nigh  unto  us,  and  the  angels  of  God 
will  be  round  about  us,  and  our  Father  will  administer  unto  us,  and 
the  power  of  his  Spirit  will  increase  in  our  souls,  if  we  continue 
in  well-doing  to  labor  with  all  our  mind,  to  build  up  this 
great  kingdom  on  the  earth.  Christ  is  and  will  be  at  its  head.  He  will 
be  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords,  and  every  man  who  has  labored 
with  him  and  for  him  in  this  holy  ministry  will  be  crowned  with 
glory  and  immortality  and  "eternal  lives."  That  means  more  than 
life,  more  than  mere  existence,  it  means  perpetual  increase  of  pos- 
terity, worlds  without  end,  and  these  blessings  shall  be  ours  if  we 
will  prove  faithful  to  that  which  we  have  received  of  the  Lord,  and 
this  is  what  we  are  for  in  the  Church,  every  one  of  us,  that  is  our 
duty,  that  is  what  we  are  on  the  earth  for,  to  build  up  this  Latter-day 
kingdom,  to  lead  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  up  to  God,  to  bring 
them  nearer  to  him  so  that  they  will  be  obedient  in  their  hearts  and 
be  willing  to  obey  his  commandments  and  walk  in  his  ways  and  be 
prepared  for  the  glorious  future  that  lies  before  them. 

BLESSINGS  AND  COUNSEL  FOR  THE  LABORING  AUTHORITIES. 

God  bless  you  my  brethren  who  are  laboring  in  this  great  cause, 
presidents  of  stakes  and  counselors,  bishops  and  counselors,  teachers 
who  visit  among  the  people,  carry  with  you  a  good  spirit  of  comfort 
and  peace,  and  joy,  into  the  hearts  of  the  Saints.  Encourage  all 
good  things,  encourage  all  people  in  well  doing.  Do  not  be  too 
severe  in  censure  but  when  it  is  necessary  let  it  come  from  the  proper 
source,  from  the  proper  authority,  and  when  things  are  not  moving 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  23 


right,  go  to  the  proper  authority.  Don't  jump  over  the  heads  of  your 
bishops  to  presidents  of  stakes  with  little  matters  which  ought  not 
to  come  up  to  the  presidency,  but  talk  to  the  brethren  where  you  are, 
and  give  them  a  chance  to  exercise  their  wisdom  and  judgment  and 
discretion  and  the  power  of  their  priesthood,  and  let  us  labor  together 
in  union  and  concord  and  love,  forgiving  one  another  of  our  faults, 
overlooking  what  we  can  properly  overlook,  not  being  too  severe, 
against  the  weak  and  faulty  but  act  so  that  we  will  not  practice  nor 
encourage  evil  but  act  so  as  to  make  the  Saints  feel  that  we  ourselves 
are  devoled  to  the  Lord,  our  eternal  Father,  as  his  sons  and  daughters, 
and  that  we  are  pledged  to  his  service  as  long  as  we  live  on  the  earth 
in  the  flesh  and  then  forever  and  ever.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

(President  of  the  Western  States  Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  very  grateful  for  the  privilege 
afforded  me  of  bearing  my  testimony  on  this  occasion.  As  President 
Grant  was  talking,  I  couldn't  help  but  think  of  the  words  of  one 
of  our  hymns :  "  W e  are  not  ashamed  to  own  our  Lord,  and  worship 
him  on  earth.  We  love  to  learn  his  holy  word,  and  know  what  souls 
are  worth." 

I  am  very  happy  in  having  the  privilege  of  laboring  in  the  ministry 
and  of  declaring  the  gospel  of  repentance  to  the  people  of  the  world. 
I  am  very  happy  that  we  have  no  compromise  to  make  with  them ;  that 
we  are  not  ashamed  of  the  message  that  we  have  to  deliver  to  the  people 
of  the  earth,  that  we  really  believe,  with  all  our  heart  and  soul,  in  the 
divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  we  have  an  abiding  faith  in  him  and 
in  his  ministry ;  that  he  was  in  reality  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world,  and  that  by  and  through  him  salvation  and  redemption  shall 
come  to  all  of  God's  children  who  are  upon  the  earth.  We  are  told  in 
the  scriptures  that  he  that  is  ashamed  of  the  Miaster,  the  Master  would 
be  ashamed  of  him.  "Whosoever,  therefore,  shall  be  ashamed  of  me, 
and  of  my  words,  in  this  adulterous  and  sinful  generation,  of  him 
also  shall  the  Son  of  Man  be  ashamed,  when  he  comieth  in  the  glory 
of  his  Father  with  the  holy  angels."  (Mark  8:38.) 

And  I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are  not  ashamed 
of  our  God  and  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  I  believe 
that  the  greatest  mission  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  is  to  proclaim 
that  truth  to-  the  children  of  men  here  upon  the  earth. 

In  the  Western  States  mission  we  have  been  very  fortunate 
this  year  in  reaching  a  great  many  people  who  are  interested  in  our 
message.  They  have  listened  -to  the  testimony  of  the  elders  of  Israel. 
The  elders  have  taught  unto  them  the  plan  of  salvation.  Hundreds 
have  embraced  the  gospel.  Many  more  than  in  years  previous.  We  are 
happy  in  our  work.  We  are  glad  to  be  engaged  in  its  labor. 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  am  glad  that  President  Grant  has  referred  to  the  fact  that 
many  of  our  young  men  who  are  laboring  in  the  mission  fields 
have  been  encouraged  by  people  at  home  to  believe  that  eighteen 
months,  or  thereabouts,  constituted  a  full  mission.  Their  friends  at  home 
have  written  and  said  that  it  was  about  time  they  returned.  Some 
of  the  elders  have  reported  to  me  that  their  friends  have  advised 
that,  others  having  returned  in  so  short  a  period,  they  too  should 
return  to  their  homes,  and  I  am  glad  that  President  Grant  has  called 
this  to  the  attention  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Many  of  our  young 
men  are  better  prepared  to  preach  at  the  expiration  of  eigh- 
teen months  and  do  a  great  deal  more  good  than  they  could 
prior  to  this  time,  and  the  last  few  months  of  their  mission  is  of 
more  worth  to  the  cause  than  perhaps  the  first  year  of  their  experience. 
I  rejoice  that  this  word  has  gone  forth  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that 
our  boys  should  remain  in  the  service  of  the  Master  at  least  two 
years  and  from  that  to  thirty  months  or  three  years,  as  the  case  may 
be.  I  was  very  happy  to  hear  one  of  the  presidents  of  the  stakes 
say  yesterday  that  a  certain  individual  had  come  to  him  and  asked 
that  his  son  might  be  released,  and  wanted  him  to  write  a  letter  to  that 
effect,  and  he  said :  "If  you  want  the  letter  written,  you  would  better 
write  it  yourself."  If  they  would  make  a  little  extra  effort  the  boy  could 
remain  and  fill  his  mission-  Our  forces  are  very  much  depleted,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  Many  a  young  man  has  returned  home,  when  I 
have  felt  in  my  heart  that  it  was  not  a  good  thing  for  the  young  man,  it 
was  not  a  good  thing  for  the  cause ;  and  with  a  little  extra  effort 
released  missionaries  could  have  remained  and  accomplished  their 
labors  and  brought  souls  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  our  Father  may  attend  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  that  they  may  have  power  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
God,  and  those  who  have  sons  and  daughters  laboring  in  the  mission 
field,  that  the  way  may  be  opened  and  means  provided  that  they  can 
keep  them  there  until  they  have  accomplished  a  full  and  complete  mis- 
sion. 

May  God  help  us  to  keep  his  commandments,  all  our  days, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Choir  and  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top," 
and  the  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Albert  Olsen,  Second 
Counselor  in  the  Presidency  of  the  Bighorn  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

At  2  o'clock  President  Heber  J.  Grant  stated  to  the  large 
assembly  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would  sing  the  hymn, 
"O  ye  mountains  high." 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


25 


This  was  done  with  spirit,  and  the  opening  prayer  was  of- 
fered by  Elder  Taylor  Nelson,  President  of  Oneida  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Guide  us,  O  thou 
great  Jehovah." 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

I  shall  read,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  from  the  seventeenth 
chapter  of  Isaiah,  the  twelfth  verse  : 

Woe  to  the  multitude  of  many  people,  which  make  a  noise  like  the 
noise  of  the  seas;  and  to  the  rushing  of  nations,,  that  make  a  rushing  like 
the  rushing  of  mighty  waters. 

The  nations  shall  rush  like  the  rushing  of  many  waters;  but  God  shall 
rebuke  them,  and  they  shall  flee  far  off,  and  shall  be  chased  as  the  chaff 
of  the  mountains  before  the  wind,,  and  like  a  rolling  thing  before  the  whirl- 
wind. 

THE  STORY  OF  THE  IMPERIAL  VALLEY. 

It  was  not  until  recent  years  that  men  realized  that  there 
existed,  in  the  extreme  south-eastern  part  of  California,  and  ex- 
tending across  the  border  line  south  into  Mexico,  a  valley  which, 
by  the  application  of  the  intelligence  of  man,  could  be  converted 
into  a  veritable  empire,  where  before  had  existed  only  a  desert 
waste.  For  ages  it  had  lain  there,  a  sun  baked,  unproductive  land, 
avoided  by  the  traveler,  dreaded  as  a  place  where  death  from 
thirst  awaited  the  unfortunate  who  might  be  caught  in  its  toils. 

The  great  Colorado  river  flowed  past  it,  but  its  life-giving 
current  had  never  been  diverted  that  the  thirsty  land  might  drink 
and  live. 

Experienced  engineers  were  called  in  for  consultation,  a  great 
irrigation  system  was  planned  and  finally  developed,  with  the 
result  that  the  Imperial  Valley  became  one  of  the  most  pro- 
ductive in  all  our  land,  providing  homes  for  many  people. 

Then,  one  day,  word  was  flashed  to  the  people  of  the  valley 
which  threw  them  into  a  condition  of  consternation  and  confusion. 
The  head  gates  which  controlled  the  waters  of  the  great  river 
had  given  way,  at  the  point  of  diversion,  and  a  mighty  flood 
was  pouring  into  the  basin  of  the  extinct  Salton  Sea.  This  basin 
once  filled,  the  flood  would  sweep  on,  and  the  Imperial  Valley 
would  become,  what  in  the  remote  past  it  had  been,  the  bottom 
of  a  sea. 

What  was  to  be  done  to  avert  this  disaster?  The  people  did 
not  abandon  their  homes  and  flee  in  confusion  and  terror,  but 
with  united  front  set  themselves  to  the  task  of  checking  the  on- 
rushing  flood,  and  confining  the  raging  waters  to  their  proper 
channel.  The  Government,  when  appealed  to,  cheerfully  responded, 
the  railroads  extended  every  aid  in  the  effort  put  forth,  again  the 
engineers  were  called  in,  and  as  a  result  of  the  effort  of  these  com- 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


bined  forces  the  flood  was  staid,  the  development  of  the  valley 
continued,  and  the  people,  whose  very  existence  had  been  threat- 
ened, remained  in  undisputed  possession  of  their  homes.  It  was 
from  this  incident  that  Harold  Bell  Wright  obtained  the  material 
for  his  very  interesting  story,  "The  Winning  of  Barbara  Worth." 

ITS  APPLICATION. 

I  have  related  this  story  because  it  appears  to  be  applicable 
to  the  remarks  which  I  desire,  with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  to  make. 
One  hundred  years  ago  the  world  was  a  barren  waste  so  far 
as  correct  knowledge  of  God  was  concerned.  His  personality,  his 
attributes,  his  purposes  and  hand-dealings  with  the  children  of 
men,  both  as  they  apply  to  the  past,  the  present  and  the  future, 
were  misunderstood.  The  river  of  understanding  had  always  flowed 
by,  but  no  one  appeared  to  realize  that  the  thirsty  earth  was 
perishing  for  want  of  the  life-giving  influence  of  its  current,  until 
through  the  wisdom  of  an  inspired  engineer  the  waters  of  the 
river  were  diverted,  and  by  the  life-giving  influence  which  flows 
from  God,  through  the  channel  of  his  Priesthood,  the  desert  waste 
began  again  to  produce,  and  for  nearly  a  century  the  Lord  of 
the  Vineyard  has  garnered  much  good  fruit,  and  the  people  of  the 
valley  have  dwelt  in  security  and  peace. 

HAVE  THE  PEOPLE  BECOME  CARELESS  IN  THEIR  FANCIED  SECURITY? 

In  the  meantime  other  streams  have  found  their  way  into  the 
channel  of  the  river,  streams  coming  from  the  summits  of  the 
storm  swept  peaks  above,  bearing  in  their  current  silt,  and 
boulders,  and  up-rooted  trees,  which  have  converted  the  once 
quietly  flowing  current  into  a  turbulent  torrent,  which  is  beat- 
ing against  the  diversion  dam  with  well  nigh  resistless  fury. 
Have  the  people  of  the  valley  become  careless  and  indifferent  in 
their  fancied  security?  Do  they  appreciate  the  fact  that  even  ce- 
ment will  gradually  wear  away,  and  must  be  replaced?  Do  they 
realize  that  the  abutments  of  the  diversion  dam  are  trembling 
under  the  pressure  of  the  flood,  and  that  if  they  once  give  way 
this  great,  turbulent  river  of  humanity  will  rush  in  and  engulf  them? 
Let  us  see. 

Since  my  earliest  recollection  I  have  heard  the  men  who  have 
been  chosen  to  direct  the  affairs  of  the  Church  and  give  counsel 
to  its  members  testify  that  these  valleys  of  the  mountains,  to 
which  the  Lord  brought  the  people  under  the  leadership  of  his 
servant  and  prophet,  Brigham  Young,  was  a  choice  land.  A  land 
which  had  been  held  in  reserve,  that  an  ensign  might  be  raised 
here  to  which  modern  Israel  would  be  gathered.  That  it  was  our 
heritage  and  should  never  be  permitted  to  pass  from  our  hands 
into  the  possession  of  strangers.  That  we  should  be,  as  far  as  pos- 
sible, an  independent,  self-supporting  people,  and  above  all  else 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


27 


that  we  should  keep  ourselves  clean  and  unspotted  from  the  sins 
of  the  world,  and  free  from  the  bondage  of  debt. 

A   WARNING  VOICE. 

I  well  remember  a  time  when,  in  the  county  of  the  state  where 
I  was,  for  a  number  of  years,  assessor  and  collector,  there  was  not  a 
home  or  farm  on  which  there  was  a  mortgage,  nor  a  dollar  of  bonded 
indebtedness.  At  the  October  conference,  ten  years  ago,  speaking  from 
this  pulpit,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  said: 

"If  there  is  anyone  here  who  is  in  debt,  I  would  advise  that  when 
he  goes  home,  and  when  I  go  home,  too,  we  will  begin  with  a 
determination  that  we  will  pay  our  debts,  and  meet  all  of  our  ob- 
ligations just  as  quickly  as  the  Lord  will  enable  us  to  do  it.  If  there 
is  anyone  here  who  is  intending  to  go  into  debt  for  speculation  I 
would  advise  him  to  hesitate,  pray  over  it,  carefully  consider  it  before 
he  obligates  himself  by  borrowing  money,  and  going  into  debt.  In 
other  word's  keep  out  of  debt.  That  means  me  as  well  as  everyone 
else." 

THE  BURDEN  OF  THE  GREAT  WAR. 

I  know  of  no  way  by  which  proper  conclusions  may  be  reached 
except  by  comparison.  Let  us  see  what  our  condition  today  as  it 
applies  to  this  question  is,  as  compared  with  ten  years  ago. 

We  have  only  recently,  as  you  know,  emerged  from  a  great 
world  war,  tremenduously  expensive,  more  so  than  any  other  war  has 
been,  a  war,  the  direct  cost  of  which  amounts,  according  to  the  most 
conservative  figures  at  my  disposal,  to  two  hundred  billions  of  dol- 
lars, an  amount  almost  beyond  the  conception  of  the  human  mind. 
There  should  be  added  to  this,  for  material  damage  wrought,  and 
for  the  loss  in  productive  power  of  nine  millions  of  men  who  have 
been  killed  and  wounded,  so  that  they  are  permanently  disqualified 
for  useful  labor,  another  fifty  billions  of  dollars  at  the  least,  so  that 
the  war  has  cost  the  world  at  least  two  hundred  and  fifty  billions  of 
dollars. 

This  burden,  of  course,  does  not  fall  directly  upon  us.  Still  we 
are  obliged  to  share  it.  We  cannot  deny  the  fact  that  whatever  obli- 
gation has  come  to  the  world,  as  a  result  of  the  war,  we  are  more 
or  less  affected  by  it.  Our  own  national  debt  amounts  to  twenty-four 
billions  of  dollars,  an  amount,  though  small  by  comparison,  is  still  be- 
yond our  ordinary  comprehension.  The  interest  on  this  amount  is 
about  one  billion  of  dollars.  Of  this  debt,  we,  as  citizens  of  the  United 
States,  must  bear  our  proportionate  part. 

i  OUK    LOCAL    FINANCIAL  CONDITION. 

Of  more  direct  interest  to  us,  because  we  alone  are  responsible 
for  it,  is  the  fact  that  our  state,  county  and  municipal  indebtedness, 
including  corporation  bonds,  realty  mortgages,  bank  loans  and  dis- 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


counts,  as  near  as  I  have  been  able  to  obtain  them,  and  I  think  the 
figures  are  under  rather  than  above  the  facts,  amount  to  more  than 
one  hundred  and  seventy-three  million  seven  hundred  and  twenty- 
one  thousand  dollars.  This  amount  the  people  of  the  state  must  pay. 
Calculating  the  interest  at  seven  per  cent,  which  I  regard  as  con- 
servative^ they  must  pay  twelve  million,  one  hundred  and  forty 
thousand  dollars  every  year  in  interest,  and  besides  that  we  know 
that  the  debt  itself  must  be  ultimately  redeemed. 

THE  WARNING  VOICE  UNHEEDED. 

The  value  of  Utah  farm  lands  and  improvements,  as  reported 
by  the  United  States  Census  Bureau  for  1920,  is  eighty-four  million 
five  hundred  seventy-eight  thousand  one  hundred  and  ninety  dollars. 
That  is  valuing  these  farms  at  four  times  as  much  as  they  were 
valued  at  ten  years  ago,  at  the  time  the  conference  to  which  I  have 
referred  was  held.  These  farms  are  mortgaged  today  for  twenty-four 
million,  three  hundred  thirty-four  thousand,  six  hundred  thirty-six 
dollars,  according  to  government  reports  which  have  been  furnished 
me  from  Washington.  Ten  years  ago  these  same  farms  were  mort- 
gaged for  four  million,  five  hundred  sixty-four  thousand,  one  hundred 
seventy-five  dollars. 

Now  if  it  is  true  that  our  farms  have  increased  in  value  four 
hundred  per  cent  during  the  past  ten  years,  the  condition  is  not  so 
alarming,  but  if  it  is  a.  fact  that  the  value  of  our  farms  has  de- 
preciated in  proportion  as  other  securities  have  during  the  past 
three  years,  they  are  mortgaged  for  far  more  than  their  real  value. 

It  appears,  then,  that  the  voice  of  the  servant  of  the  Lord  fell 
upon  deaf  ears,  so  far  as  the  people  at  large  are  concerned.  There 
were  some,  it  is  true,  who  saw  the  coming  of  the  flood  and  pre- 
pared to  meet  it. 

The  Lord  has  said  that  preceding  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
man,  in  the  dispensation  in  which  we  live,  conditions  would  be  as 
they  were  in  the  days  of  Noah.  He  warned  the  people  of  coming 
disaster,  pleaded  with  them  to  enter  into  the  ark  with  him,  and  be 
saved,  but  they  laughed  him  to  scorn,  and  refused  to  prepare,  by 
repentance  from  their  wickedness,  for  the  deluge  which  he  declared 
would  come. 

WHERE  THE  BONDAGE  OF  DEBT  FALLS. 

I  know  of  no  other  factor  which  has  had  such  potent  influence, 
in  the  dissolution  of  nations  which  have  flourished  and  passed  away, 
as  has  the  bondage  of  debt.  When  nations  become  debtors  the  only 
means  of  providing  revenue  with  which  to  meet  their  obligations 
is  by  taxation.  This  burden  falls  heaviest  upon  the  masses,  the  com- 
mon people,  who  are  the  producers  of  the  indispensable  necessities 
of  life. 

The  men  who  till  the  soil,  who  tend  the  flocks  and  herds,  who 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


29 


dig  from  the  earth  the  treasures  which  are  hidden  there,  the  men 
who  take  the  raw  materials  which  are  provided  by  nature  and  con- 
vert them  into  the  things  which  man  requires  for  his  convenience  and 
comfort,  who  are  real  producers,  they  are  the  people  who  do  the 
world's  work,  fight  the  world's  battles,  and  pay  the  world's  taxes. 

I  know  there  are  those  who  will  not  agree  with  me  in  this 
statement,  and  I  shall  not  discuss  it  with  them  at  this  time,  only 
to  say  that  I  have  given  the  subject  as  careful  study  as  I  am  capable 
of  doing,  and  have  concluded  that  commerce,  the  professions,  and 
the  great  industrial  systems  of  our  country  find  means  by  which 
the  burden  of  taxation  may  be  shifted  until  in  the  last  analysis  it 
falls  heaviest  on  the  classes  to  which  I  have  referred. 

AVOID  MORTGAGING  THE  HOME. 

My  remarks  are  directed  more  particularly  to  my  brethren  who 
are  engaged  in  agricultural  pursuits.  Israel  has  always  been  an  agri- 
cultuul  and  pastoral  people.  We  are  told  that  about  fifty  millions 
of  dollars  of  our  securities  are  now  in  the  possession  of  the  Federal 
Reserve  Bank.  The  past  we  cannot  well  remedy,  but  we  can,  so  far 
as  the  future  is  concerned,  profit  by  its  experiences.  I  feel  that  every 
mother  of  a  family  is  entitled  to  a  home,  to  shelter  her  and  her 
children,  upon  which  there  is  no  mortgage,  and  I  plead  with  my 
brethren  to  keep  mortgages  from  their  farms  and  homes  so  far  as 
it  is  possible. 

WHAT  CAUSED  THE  DISRUPTION"  OF  THE  KINGDOM  OF  ISRAEL? 

It  was  the  burden  of  debt,  and  excessive  taxation  which  accom- 
panies it  that  caused  the  disruption  of  the  great  kingdom  of  Israel. 
At  the  death  of  Solomon,  during  whose  reign  Israel  rose  to  the 
zenith  of  her  power  and  glory,  his  son  Rehoboam  succeeded  to  the 
throne  of  David.  And  the  people  came  up  and  said  to  him,  Thy 
father  made  our  yoke  grievous,  now  therefore  make  thou  the  grievous 
service  of  thy  father,  and  the  heavy  yoke  which  he  put  upon  us 
lighter,  and  we  will  serve  thee.  The  old  men  of  the  kingdom,  men 
of  experience,  who  were  in  sympathy  with  the  people  who  made 
the  petition,  advised  the  young  king'  to  accede  to  this  demand,  but 
the  young  men,  the  companions  of  his  youth,  said,  No ;  these  old  men 
are  too  conservative,  they  are  not  progressive,  the  glory  and  pres- 
tige of  our  court  must  be  maintained,  regardless  of  cost,  these  people 
are  the  subjects  of  the  king;  if  they  persist,  we  will  go  against  them 
with  our  organized  forces,  and  will  subject  them  to  the  discipline 
of  the  state. 

The  result  was  that  when  the  people  returned  for  an  answer  to 
their  appeal  the  king  said:  Whereas,  my  father  placed  heavy  burdens 
upon  you,  I  will  make  them  heavier;  if  he  made  your  yoke  heavy 
I  will  add  to  your  yoke,  my  little  finger  shall  be  thicker  than  my 
father's  loin. 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


It  was  the  fatal  word  which  ruined  the  kingdom,  for  the  people 
with  one  voice  cried  out,  To  your  tents,  O  Israel,  now  look  to  thine 
own  house,  David.  From  that  moment  the  decadence  of  Israel  began. 

ENSLAVEMENT  OF  THE  PEOPLE  CAUSED  BY  THE  BONDAGE  OF  DEBT 

I  know  of  no  better  example  of  the  inevitable  consequence  which 
follows  the  bondage  of  debt,  than  that  recorded  in  Genesis,  and  it 
is  the  first  example,  so  far  as  I  am  aware,  where  monopoly  of  the 
necessities  of  life  resulted  in  the  enslavement  of  the  people. 

AN  EXAMPLE  FROM  THE  SCRIPTURES. 

There  had  been  seven  years  of  bounteous  harvest  in  Egypt, 
during  which  time  the  people  had  done,  as  they  always  do,  as  we  have 
done,  in  time  of  plenty,  lived  extravagantly,  believing  that  prosperity 
would  continue,  and  had  neglected  to  make  provision  for  changed 
conditions  which  were  to  come.  There  were  far  seeing  men,  as  there 
always  are,  who  were  ready  to  take  advantage  of  the  knowledge 
which  they  possessed,  and  become  the  creditors  of  the  people.  Permit 
me  to  read : 

And  there  was  no  bread  in  all  the  land;  for  the  famine  was  very  sore, 
so  that  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  all  the  land  of  Canaan  fainted  by  reason  of 
the  famine. 

And  Joseph  gathered  up  all  the  money  that  was  found  in  the  land 
of  Egypt,  and  in  the  land  of  Canaan,  for  the  corn  which  they  bought,  and 
Joseph  brought  the  money  into  Pharaoh's  house. 

And  when  money  failed  in  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  in  the  land  of 
Canaan,  all  the  Egyptians  came  unto  Joseph  and  said,  Give  us  bread:  for 
why  should  we  die  in  thy  presence?  for  the  money  faileth. 

And  Joseph  said,  Give  your  cattle;  and  I  will  give  you  for  your  cattle, 
if  money  fail. 

And  they  brought  their  cattle  unto  Joseph,  and  Joseph  gave  them 
bread  in  exchange  for  horses,  and  for  the  flocks,  and  for  the  cattle  of  the 
herds,  and  for  the  asses,  and  he  fed  them  with  bread  for  all  their  cattle 
for  that  year. 

When  that  year  was  ended,  they  came  to  him  the  second  year,  and 
said  unto  him:  We  will  not  hide  it  from  my  Lord  how  that  our  money 
is  spent;  my  Lord  also  hath  our  herds  of  cattle;  there  is  naught  left  in 
the  sight  of  my  Lord  but  our  bodies  and  our  lands. 

Wherefore  shall  we  die  before  thine  eyes,  both  we  and  our  land?  Buy  us 
and  our  land  for  bread,  and  we  and  our  land  will  be  servants  unto  Pharaoh, 
and  give  us  seed  that  we  may  live  and  not  die,  that  the  land  be  not  desolate. 

And  Joseph  bought  all  the  land  of  Egypt  for  Pharaoh  for  the  Egypt- 
ians sold  every  man  his  field,  because  the  famine  prevailed  over  them;  so 
the  land  became  Pharaoh's. 

*    *  * 

Then  Joseph  said  unto  the  people:  Behold  I  have  bought  you  this 
day  and  your  land  for  Pharaoh,  lo  here  is  seed  for  you,  and  ye  shall 
sow  the  land.  And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  increase,  that  ye  shall 
give  the  fifth  part  unto  Pharaoh,  and  four  parts  shall  be  your  own.  for* 
seed  of  the  field,  and  for  food  and  for  them  of  your  households,  and 
for  food  for  your  little  ones. 

From  that  day  until  the  present  the  common  people  of  Egypt, 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


31 


the  Fellahin,  have  tilled  the  soil  as  the  tenants  of  royalty,  the  priests, 
and  the  military  class,  their  masters. 

It  will  be  urged,  and  I  admit  the  truth  of  the  contention,  that 
by  the  conservation  of  the  resources  of  the  country  the  lives  of  the 
people  were  saved,  but  how  much  better  it  would  have  been  had 
these  people  been  warned  in  advance,  and  being  governed  by  the 
warning,  conserved  their  own  resources,  instead  of  permitting  them 
to  pass  into  the  hands  of  those  who  produced  nothing,  and  then  buy- 
ing back,  at  exorbiant  prices,  that  which  they  themselves  had  brought 
forth,  paying  for  it  with  their  own  persons,  their  lives,  and  liberty. 

IMPORTANCE   OF   THE  OWNERSHIP   OF   LAND,   DANGER   OF  BORROWING. 

The  great  importance  attached  to  this  condition  of  debt,  and  the 
ownership  of  land  upon  which  people  live,  is  illustrated  in  the  law 
given  by  the  Lord,  for  the  government  of  ancient  Israel.  Under  this 
law  it  was  impossible  to  transfer  the  title  to  land  from  the  original 
owner,  who  had  received  it  as  a  heritage,  to  the  permanent  possession 
of  another.  It  might  pass  temporarily  into  the  hands  of  strangers, 
but  at  the  lapse  of  fifty  years,  when  the  great  jubilee  came,  amid 
rejoicing  and  thanksgiving,  the  land  reverted  to  the  original  owner, 
or  his  heirs,  and  another  opportunity  was  given  for  independent 
existence.  We  have  no  such  guarantee,  once  our  heritage  passes  from 
US,  it  can  only  be  recovered  by  infinite  toil,  and  too  often,  not  at  all. 

I  do  not  wish  to  be  understood  to  mean,  by  my  remarks,  that 
debt  should  never  be  incurred.  That  no  circumstance  can  justify  the 
borrowing  of  money,  but  I  do  say  without  hesitation  that  it  is  better 
never  to  be  in  debt,  that  it  would  be  better  never  to  borrow  money,  and 
I  wish  to  warn  my  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  danger  which  confronts 
us  because  of  the  great  burden  of  debt  which  we  are  saddling  upon  our 
backs,  and  the  backs  of  our  children,  a  burden  under  which  I  fear 
they  will  faint,  and  fall  by  the  way. 

HOW  THE  PREVAILING  CONDITION  CAN  BE  MODIFIED. 

There  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind  that  this  condition  can  be  greatly 
modified,  if  not  entirely  relieved,  by  returning  to  the  fundamental 
principles  of  economy  and  simplicity  of  life  which  characterized  the 
early-day  administration  of  the  affairs  of  both  the  State  and  the 
Church.  I  do  not  mean  by  this  that  we  are  to  return  to  the  methods 
employed  by  our  fathers,  but  that  we  cease  the  unnecessary  expendi- 
ture of  money,  as  it  applies  to  our  every-clay  life.  That  we  think  less 
of  pleasure,  and  more  of  the  development  of  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
That  we  live  within  our  means,  and  cease  the  frantic  struggle  for 
riches,  which  is  taking  hold  upon  us  like  the  tentacles  of  an  octopus. 

Paul,  writing  to  Timothy  and  foreseeing  the  conditions  which 
would  exist  in  the  day  in  which  we  live,  said:  "This  know  also,  that 
in  the  last  days  perilous  times  shall  come.  For  men  shall  be  lovers 
of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud,  blasphemers,  disobedi- 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ent  to  parents,  unthankful,  unholy,  highminded,  lovers  of  pleasure 
rather  than  lovers  of  God — from  such  turn  away. 

PERTINENT   QUESTIONS   FOR   THE   PEOPLE  TO  ANSWER. 

I  have  recently  asked  myself  the  questions :  Are  we  gravitating 
toward  this  condition?  Have  we  become  pleasure  seekers  to  the  ex- 
clusion of  our  duty  to  the  Church?  Do  automobiles,  resorts,  moving 
pictures  and  other  sources  of  pleasure  absorb  our  minds  until  we  forget 
the  obligation  we  are  under  to  God,  and  our  brethren  and  sisters 
in  the  Church?  Do  we  needlessly  waste  money  in  the  gratification 
of  our  love  for  pleasure  and  excitement,  while  our  brethren  are  strug- 
gling in  poverty  and  want?  I  leave  you  to  answer  the  question. 

Do  not  understand  me  to  advocate  that  people  are  not  entitled 
to,  and  should  not  have,  wholesome  legitimate  recreation  and  amuse- 
ment, I  mean  no  such  thing.  It  is  the  excess  in  these  things  to  which 
I  refer,  and  particularly  to  amusements  the  character  of  which  are 
calculated  to  lead  people  away  from  the  fundamentals  of  morality 
and  virtue. 

CONCLUSIONS  BASED  ON  THE  WORD  OF  THE  LORD  IN  THE  BOOK  OF 

MORMON. 

I  suppose  I  shall  be  accused  of  being  a  pessimist,  I  suppose  men 
will  say  that  I  am  knocking  business,  and  taking  a  gloomy  view  of  the 
present,  and  the  future  which  is  before  us.  That  I  should  say  to  you 
that  times  are  good,  that  business  is  rushing,  that  better  times  are 
coming,  that  we  should  eat,  drink  and  be  merry,  for  the  future  is 
laden  only  with  hope.  Again  let  me  read,  briefly,  from  the  word  of 
the  Lord,  for  it  is  upon  his  word  that  my  conclusions  are  based.  I 
read  from  the  Book  of  Mormon: 

O  the  wise,  and  the  learned,  and  the  rich,  that  are  puffed  up  in 
the  pride  of  their  hearts,  and  all  those  who  preach  false  doctrines,,  and 
all  those  who  commit  whoredoms,  and  pervert  the  right  way  of  the  Lord, 
wo,  wo,  wo  be  unto  them,  saith  the  Lord  God  Almighty,  for  they  shall 
be  thrust  down  to  hell. 

Wo  unto  them  that  turn  aside  the  just  for  a  thing  cf  naught  and 
revile  against  that  which  is  good,  and  say,  That  is  of  no  worth;  for  the 
day  shall  come  that  the  Lord  God  will  speedily  visit  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth;  and  in  that  day  that  they  are  fully  ripe  in  iniquity,  they 
shall  perish. 

But  behold,  if  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  shall  repent  of  their 
wickedness  and  abominations,  they  shall  not  be  destroyed,  saith  the  Lord 
of  Hosts.  *  *  * 

For  the  kingdom  of  the  devil  must  shake,  and  they  which  belong 
to  it  must  needs  be  stirred  up  unto  repentance,  or  the  devil  will  grasp 
them  with  his  everlasting  chains,  and  they  be  stirred  up  to  anger,  and 
perish. 

For  behold,  at  that  day  shall  he  rage  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of 
men,  and  stir  them  up  to  anger  against  that  which  is  good. 

And  others  he  will  pacify,  and  lull  them  away  into  carnal  security,  that 
they  will  say:  All  is  well  in  Zion;  yea,  Zion  prospereth,  all  is  well — and  thus 
the  devil  cheateth  their  souls,  and  leadeth  them  away  carefully  down  to  hell. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


33 


And  behold,  others  he  flattereth  away,  and  telleth  them  there  is  no 
hell,  and  he  sayeth  unto  them:  I  am  no  devil,  for  there  is  none  — and  thus 
he  whispereth  in  their  ears,  until  he  grasp  them  with  his  awful  chains, 
from  whence  there  is  no  deliverance.  *  *  * 

Therefore,  wo  be  unto  him  that  is  at  ease  in  Zion! 

Wo  be  unto  him  that  crieth,  all  is  well!  Yea,,  wo  be  unto  him  that 
hearkeneth  unto  the  precepts  of  men,  and  denieth  the  power  of  God, 
and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost!  *  *  *  And  in  fine,  wo  unto  all  those  who 
tremble,  and  are  angry  because  of  the  truth  of  God! 


LET  US  NOT  BE  DECEIVED,  BUT  FAITHFULLY  DISCHARGE  OUR  DUTIES. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  scripture  has  no  appli- 
cation to  us;  that  we  are  not  being  deceived  in  the  thought  that  all 
is  well  in  Zion ;  that  the  Lord  will  take  care  of  his  ,work  without  ef- 
fort on  our  part;  that  it  is  no  longer  necessary  that  we  pray  to  the 
Lord,  and  put  our  trust  in  him,  as  our  fathers  have  done,  that  we 
may  with  safety  relapse  into  a  condition  of  fancied  security,  in  the 
belief  that  Satan,  the  enemy  of  God,  and  all  that  is  good  is  no  longer 
striving  for  the  mastery;  that  our  tithes  and  offerings  are  no  longer 
necessary  in  the  development  of  the  work  of  the  Lord ;  but  let  us  rather 
ponder  the  words  of  Malachi,  which  were  quoted  by  Moroni  to  Joseph 
Smith,  and,  returning  to  the  Lord  in  faith  and  works,  have  the  as- 
surance that  he  will  return  to  us,  and  opening  the  windows  of  heaven 
pour  out  blessings  upon  us  until  there  will  not  be  room  to  contain  them. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  all  to  comprehend  the  past,  and  profit  by 
the  lessons  which  it  teaches,  have  understanding  of  the  present,  and 
faithfully  discharge  the  responsibilities  which  devolve  upon  us,  that 
we  may  be  prepared  for  the  great  future  which  is  before  us,  is  my 
humble  prayer. 

A  PRAYER  FOR  THE  WATCHMEN  ON  THE  TOWERS  OF  ZION. 

That  my  brethren  who  are  the  presidents  of  stakes,  bishops  of 
wards,  and  who  preside  over  the  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church, 
may  all  be  awake  to  the  fact  that  the  flood  of  the  great  river,  made 
filthy  with  the  sins  of  the  world,  is  beating  upon  the  head  gates  of 
the  Church,  and  realizing  the  danger,  stand  as  watchmen  upon  the 
towers  of  Zion  should  stand,  watchful  and  unafraid,  that  the  gates 
may  be  kept  strong  and  firm,  and  the  muddy  waters  be  confined  to 
their  proper  channel,  is  my  hope  and  prayer,  through  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

Sister  J.  P.  Shaw  sang  a  solo,  "Come,  ye  blessed  of  my 
Father." 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


Brothers  and  sisters,  I  ask  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  sympathy 
while  I  stand  before  you.  We  are  gathered  here,  a  great  body  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  to  worship  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  the 
Son,  and  to  lift  up  our  voices  in  thanksgiving  and  praise  for  the!  many 
blessings  which  we  enjoy — to  lift  up  our  voices  by  prayer  and  testimony 
and  exhortation  and  the  voice  of  melody. 

SACRIFICE  AND  BURNT  OFFERINGS  TYPICAL  OF  THE  ATONEMENT  OP 


The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  wrought  out  for  us  a  great  salvation 
by  the  shedding  of  blood.  The  atonement  is  many  times  referred 
to  in  the  holy  scriptures  of  both  the  Old  and  the  New  Testament; 
and,  in  fact,  in  the  very  beginning  this  important  matter  was  empha- 
sized. When  Adam  and  Eve  were  thrust  out  of  the  Garden 
of  Eden  the  Lord  commanded  them  to  worship  him  and  to  offer 
the  firstlings  of  their  flock  upon  an  altar  of  sacrifice..  Adam 
was  obedient  to  the  commandment.  Later  an  angel  appeared  to 
him  and  asked  him  why  he  was  offering  sacrifice,  and  he  answered 
and  said:  "I  know  not,  only  that  the  Lord  commanded:  it."  And  then  it 
was  that  the  angel  explained  the  matter  in  very  striking  language. 
This  is  what  he  said,  as  recorded  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price: 

"This  thing  is  a  similitude  of  the  sacrifice  of  the  Only  Begotten  Son 
of  the  Father,  which  is  full  of  grace  and  truth.  Wherefore  thou  shalt  do 
all  that  thou  doest  in  the  name  of  the  Son,,  and  thou  shalt  repent  and  call 
upon  God  in  the  name  of  the  Son  forever." 

Isaac  was  offered  upon  an  altar  of  sacrifice  by  his  father  Abra- 
ham, and  it  seems  that  this  was  intended  to  test  his  faith  and 
obedience.  He  readily  responded,  but  the  Lord  would  not  suffer 
him  to  lay  his  hand  upon  the  boy.  Surely  this  offering  of  Abraham 
was  typical  of  the  great  offering  made  by  God  himself,  for  it  is 
said  in  the  record  that,  God  soi  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his 
Only  Begotten  Son  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not 
perish,  but  have  everlasting  life. 

Let  me  remind  you  that  there  was  a  deep  significance  in  the 
burnt  offerings  of  the  children  of  Israel  in  the  Wilderness  and 
in  Palestine,  because  it  was  through  these  burnt  offerings  that 
the  children  of  Israel  obtained  forgiveness  of  their  sins,  for  the 
burnt  offerings  were  typical  of  the  great  atonement  that  would  be 
made  by  the  Lamb    of  God  in  later  years. 

Isaiah,  the  Prophet,  that  mighty  man  of  ancient  times,  speaks 
of  the  atonement  in  a  very  beautiful  and  expressive  manner.  Listen 
to  the  language  of  the  Seer : 

"But  he  was  wounded  for  our  transgressions,  he  was  bruised>  for  our 
iniquities;  the  chastisement  of  our  peace  was  upon  him;  and  with  his  stripes 
we  are  healed. 


CHRIST. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON  35 


"All  we  like  sheep  have  gone  astray;  we  have  turned  every  one  to  his 
own  way;  and  the  Lord  hath  laid  on  him  the  iniquity  of  us  all.    .    .  . 

"He  was  taken  from  prison  and  from  judgment:  and  who  shall  de- 
clare his  generatons?  for  he  was  cut  off  out  of  the  land  of  the  living:  for 
the  transgression  of  my  people  was  he  stricken.    .    .  . 

"He  shall  see  of  the  travail  of  his  soul,  and  shall  be  satisfied:  by  his 
knowledge  shall  my  righteous  servant  justify  many;  for  he  shall  bear  their 
iniquities. 

"Therefore  will  I  divide  him  a  portion  with  the  great,  and  he  shall 
divide  the  spoil  with  the  strong;  because  he  hath  poured  out  his  soul  unto 
death:  and  he  was  numbered  with  the  transgressors;  and  he  bare  the  sin 
of  many,  and  made  intercession  for  the  transgressors." 

And  the  subject  is  also  referred  to  in  the  book  of  Revelation,  in 
chapter  five,  where  reference  is  made  to  the  Savior  of  the  world: 

"And  they  sung  a  new  song,  saying,  Thou  art  worthy  to  take  the  book, 
and  to  open  the  seals  thereof:  for  thou  wast  slain,  and  hast  redeemed  us 
to  God  by  thy  blood  out  of  every  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people,  and 
nation." 

In  the  meridian  of  time  the  Lord  required  of  his  people 
a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit,  and  he  introduced  the  sacra- 
ment saying: 

"And  the  Lord  took  the  bread  and  gave  thanks  and  blessed  it,  and  he 
gave  unto  them  saying:  This  is  my  body  which  is  given  for  you.  This  do  in 
remembrance  of  me." 

"Likewise  also  the  cup  after  supper,  saying: 

"This  cup  is  the  new  testament  in  my  blood  which  is  shed  for  you." 

REQUIREMENTS  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  CONCERNING  THE  ATONE- 
MENT. 

And  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  in  the  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times,  for  the  Lord  requires  of  us  a  broken  heart 
and  a  contrite  spirit,  and  the  sacrament,  which  is  regarded  by 
the  Church  as  a  most  holy  ordinance,  is  again  restored  to  the 
people  of  God.  We  are  commanded  to  come  together  often  and 
partake  of  the  sacrament,  in  rememberance  of  him,  of  his  suffering 
and  death.  Oh,  how  important  is  this  subject.  Again  in  one  of  the 
great  revelations  of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and 
to  the  people  of  the  Church,  the  Lord  refers  to  this  subject  in  a 
most  touching  and  beautiful  manner.  Give  ear,  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  these  words  which  were  uttered  by  revelation,  in  1831 : 

"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  Church  to  whom  the  kingdom  has  been 
given.  Hearken  ye  and  give  ear  to  him,  who  laid  the  foundations  of  the 
earth;  who  made  the  heavens  and  all  the  hosts  thereof,  and  by  whom  all 
things  were  made  which  live  and  move  and  have  their  being.  And  again 
I  say,  hearken  unto  my  voice,  lest  death  shall  overtake  you  in  an  hour  when 
you  think  not,  and  summer  shall  be  past  and  the  harvest  ended  and  your 
souls  not  saved.  Listen  to  him  who  is  the  advocate  with  the  Father,  who 
is  pleading  your  cause  before  him,  saying:  Father  behold  the  sufferings 
and  death  of  him  who  did  no  sin  in  whom  thou  wast  well  pleased.  Behold 
the  blood  of  thy  Son  which  was  shed,  the  blood  of  him  whom  thou  gavest 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  thyself  might  be  glorified.  Wherefore,  Father,  spare  these  my  brethren 
that  believe  on  my  name,  that  they  may  come  unto  me  and  have  everlast- 
ing life." 

THE  ATONEMENT  OF  CHRIST  THE  SUPREME  SACRIFICE. 

These  passages  which  I  have  read,  and  many  more  that  occur 
in  the  Holy  Scriptures,  give  us  to  understand  that  the  atonement 
made  upon  Mount  Calvary  was  the  supreme  sacrifice  ever  made 
in  all  the  world.  Oh,  the  height  and  the  depth  of  divine  love,  the  love 
of  God  for  his  children  here  upon  the  earth!  We  are  put  under 
an  obligation  that  we  never  can  repay  in  this  life  or  in  the  life 
to  come.  The  greatness'  of  this  sacrifice  cannot  be  measured, 
cannot  be  fully  understood  by  mortal  man ;  but,  nevertheless,  we 
can  get  the  benefit  of  it  by  faith  and  obedience  to  the  command- 
ments of  God.  That  is  what  he  requires,  and  I  was  going  to  say 
how  simple  it  is  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  and  yet  it  may 
not  be  so  simple,  and  it  may  not  be  so  easy,  because  Satan  very  well 
knows  the  mark  of  our  high  calling,  and  he  is  seeking  continually 
to  lead  away  the  Saints  of  God  from  the  path  of  rectitude  and  from 
the  path  of  life,  but  after  all,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  through 
faith  and  prayer  and  diligence,  we  will  surely  prevail. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  that  end,  may  he  give  us  a  greater 
and  a  wider  conception  of  the  atonement  wrought  out  by  his  beloved 
Son,  I  humbly  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  am  indeed  in  a  frame  of  mind  this  afternoon  that  I  desire  the  faith 
and  prayers  of  this  vast  congregation,  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me1  that 
I  may  say  such  things  as  will  be  profitable  to  all. 

MISSION  CONDITIONS  IN  EUROPE. 

This  is  the  first  time  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  being  with  you  for 
more  than  two  years,  and  during  that  time  I  have  visited  the  countries 
of  Europe  where  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  established  missions.  Dur- 
ing my  absence  there  has  not  been  much  change  in  conditions  in  the 
European  field  except  that  the  way  has  again  been  opened  in  some  na- 
tions for  the  elders  from  America  to  enter  and'  preach  the  gospel.  The 
same  opposition  exists  in  most  countries  to  the  teaching  of  the  truth  by 
our  missionaries,  but  we  have  not  been  molested  or  seriously  hampered 
in  any  place.  Quite  a  change  has  occurred  in  Germany,  in  that  our 
missionaries  are  made  welcome,  our  congregations  are  so  large  that  the 
meeting  places  are  taxed  to  their  capacity,  and  in  some  of  the  cities  we 
have  two  congregations.  Most  of  the  work  in  Germany  is  being  ac- 
complished by  local  elders,  about  one  hundred  in  number,  with  not  to 
exceed  six  missionaries  from  America.  Norway,  Sweden  and  Denmark 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


37 


have  limited  the  number  of  missionaries  allowed  to  enter  there.  Norway 
has  only  one  missionary  from  home,  at  the  present  time,  and  no  more  are 
permitted  to  enter.  Prest.  August  Schow  has  labored  there  with  the  as- 
sistance of  a  few  local  men  during  the  past  two  years.  During  the  first 
year  I  was  in  Great  Britain,  our  missionary  force  consisted  of  twelve 
elders  from  home,  three  sisters  and  a  few  good  local  men  who  rendered 
assistance.  Tracting  and  other  work  of  that  kind  was  done  by  women 
in  many  places  under  the  presidency  of  Elder  George  F.  Richards, 
and  that  continued  till  about  a  year  ago,  when  elders  began  to  arrive 
from  Zion,  and  today  there  are  over  one  hundred  missionaries  from 
this  land  laboring  in  the  British  Isles.  Some  of  the  local  missionaries 
were  excellent  men,  and  rendered  splendid  service. 

All  of  the  elders  were  withdrawn  from  South  Africa,  many  of 
them  serving  long-term  missions.  President  Nicholas  G.  Smith  and 
his  family,  consisting  of  a  wife  and  three  sons,  remained  there  nearly 
eight  years,  and  were  succeeded  about  eight  months  ago  by  President 
J.  Wyley  Sessions  who  took  with  him  his  wife  and  two  children. 
South  Africa  has  opened  her  doors  to  our  missionaries,  and  others  will 
be  sent  now  as  rapidly  as  possible  to  continue  the  work  in  that  land. 

Holland  is  a  fruitful  field  and  Switzerland  has  many  excellent 
branches  of  the  Church.  Our  difficulty  is  that  millions  of  people 
in  all  parts  of  the  world  have  been  deceived  and  made  to  believe 
that  we  are  a  wicked  people.  Evil  stories  have  been  circulated  about  us 
and  those  falsehoods  have  gained  ground  and  have  been  given  credence 
by  many  intelligent  men  and  women.  The  adversary  has  sown  the 
seeds  of  suspicion  and  hatred  against  the  Church,  and  but  for  that 
reason  our  missionaries  would  be  made  welcome  in  every  land. 

PREJUDICES  AGAINST  OUR  MESSAGE  TO  THE  WORLD  SOMEWHAT  ALLAYED. 

We  are  teaching  the  same  gospel  that  the  Savior  taught,  and  the 
same  influences  that  opposed  him  and  his  associates  is  potent  in  the 
world  today.  The  adversary  is  determined  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  shall  not  be  taught  in  its  purity.  We  have  the  truth,  and  he 
knows  that  we  have  it,  and  he  knows  that  millions  of  our  Father's 
children  would  accept  it  gladly  if  they  could  hear  it  with  unprejudiced 
minds. 

If  we  have  the  opportunityy  to  visit  with  intelligent  men  and 
women  with  sufficient  time  to  explain  our  mission  in  the  world, 
prejudice  that  has  existed  in  their  minds  is  dissipated  and  they  are 
more  friendly  to  the  truth.  The  missionaries  of  this  Church  have 
gone  into  those  lands  to  teach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  it  is 
recorded  in  the  Holy  Scriptures.  They  have  desired  to  bestow  a  bless- 
ing on  the  people,  and  have  endeavored  to  inspire  hope,  courage,  and 
faith  in  the  children  of  our  heavenly  Father,  whose  minds  have  been 
darkened  because  of  the  absence  of  the  gospel  in  its  purity. 

The  prejudice  that  has  existed  against  us  in  the  past  has  in 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


large  mesaure  been  dissipated  and  hundreds  and  thousands  of  men 
and  women  have  been  made  aware  of  the  labor  we  are  performing, 
but  there  still  remains  a  feeling,  and  a  determination,  on  the  part 
of  the  leaders  of  some  of  the  churches  of  the  world,  to  prevent,  if 
possible,  the  promulgation  of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord,  as  revealed 
in  this  latter  day.  Our  problem  is  to  find  a  way  whereby  we  may 
present  to  all  the  people  the  gospel  of  our  Lord.  It  is  our  problem, 
and  with  divine  assistance  we  will  find  a  way  to  solve  it.  It  is 
incumbent  upon  us  to  ascertain  if  there  is  not  some  means  whereby 
we  may  be  able  to  do  more  than  we  have  already  done,  if  we  would 
satisfy  the  requirements  of  our  heavenly  Father. 

FAMINE  IN  THE  WORLD  FOR  THE  WORD  OF  GOD. 

I  congratulate  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  sons  in  the  mission 
field.  I  have  met  many  of  them  and  they  are  splendid,  humble,  prayer- 
ful men,  .vho  are  desirous  of  doing  something  to  improve  the  condi- 
tions of  the  world  and  to  teach  mankind  to  prepare  for1  the  world  to 
■come. 

There  is  no  reason  why  all  the  children  of  men  should  not  be 
provided  with  the  necessities  of  life,  if  the  products  of  the  earth  were 
equitably  distributed,  and  they  could  be  more  evenly  divided,  if  men 
would  turn  to  the  Lord  and  keep  his  commandments. 

1  here  is  a  real  famine  in  the  world  for  the  words  of  the  Lord, 
and  many  honest  'souls  are  earnestly  seeking  to  know  'what  our 
heavenly  Father  desires  of  them.  I  have  met  a  number  of  the  leaders 
of  the  churches  of  the  world,  and  have  found  among  them  noble 
characters  devoted  to  doing  good,  but  I  have  rarely  found  among  those 
who  have  been  called  to  the  ministry  in  the  various  church  organiza- 
tions, men  who  have  an  understanding  of  the  purposes  of  their  being, 
or  who  realize  why  we  are  here  in  this  world.  Men  cannot  teach  what 
they  do  not  themselves  know.  These  good  men,  not  understanding  the 
gospel  and  the  necessity  for  the  ordinances  of  the  same,  confine 
iheir  teachings  very  largely  to  moral  lessons  and  to  reading  the 
psalms  to  their  congregations!1.  'Isolated  passages  of  scripture  are 
chosen  as  texts  for  addresses  on  virtue,  honesty,  etc.,  etc.,  all  of  which 
arc  helpful  and  uplifting,  but  few  sermons  are  preached  explaining 
the  requirements  made  of  every  soul  before  we  can  enter  the  kingdom 
of  heaven.  It  is  this  information  of  which  the  world  is  most  in  need. 
Few  ministers  have  a  message  for  their  congregations  that  inspires 
in  them  the  belief  in  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  necessity  of 
partaking  of  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  prescribed  by  him. 

THE  FOUNDATION  UPON  WHICH  WE  BUILD  OUR  FAITH. 

1  believe  that  we  have  a  duty  to  perform  and  we  will  have  to 
labor  more  earnestly  in  the  future  than  we  have  done  in  the  p^st  to 
discharge  it,  if  we  fulfil  the  requirements  of  our  heavenly  Father. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


39 


The  Lord  has  blessed  us  with  a  knowledge  that  he  lives,  and  has  a 
body,  and  that  we  are  created  in  his  image.  We  do  not  believe 
that  he  is  some  kind  of  essence  or  that  he  is  incomprehensible. 
If  you  have  received  the  witness  that  has  come  to  me  and 
know  as  I  know  that  our  heavenly  Father  has  revealed  himself  to 
the  children  of  men,  that  he  is  a  personal  God,  that  we  are  created  in 
his1  image,  that  our  spirits  were  begotten  by  him,  that  he  has  given  us 
an  opportunity  to  dwell  upon  the  earth  to  receive  a  physical  tabernacle, 
in  order  that  we  may  be  prepared  to  return  into  his  presence  and  live 
eternally  with  him,  I  say,  if  you  have  received  that  assurance,  then 
you  have  a  foundation  upon  which  you  may  build  your  faith.  Take 
that  from  you,  the  knowledge  that  God  really  lives,  the  assurance 
that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  manifestation  of  God  in  the  flesh,  take 
from  you  the  assurance  that  there  will  be  a  literal  resurrection  from 
the  dead,  and  you  will  find  yourselves  in  the  condition  that  our 
Father's  children  are  in  throughout  the  world,  and  I  ask  you,  what 
conifort  remains  to  you  then?  These  are  the  truths  that  are  funda- 
mental. 

THE  FUNDAMENTAL  PRINCIPLES  OF  THE  GOSPEL  SUPERIOR1  TO  ETHICS. 

The  Redeemer  of  mankind  was  more  than  a  good  man  who  came 
into  the  world  to  teach  us  ethics.  The  Redeemer  of  mankind  possessed 
more  than  ordinary  intelligence.  He  was  indeed  the  Son  of  God,  the 
only  begotten  of  God  in  the  flesh.  He  was  sent  into  this  world  to 
remove  from  the  minds  of  men  the  delusion  that  had  confounded  them 
for  many  generations.  He  came  to  call  men  to  repentance,  to  turn 
them  from  the  error  of  their  way.  He  went  among  them  representing 
God  the  Eternal  Father,  proclaiming  that  he  was  in  the  image  of 
his  Father,  and  that  those  who  had  seen  him  had  seen  the  Father,  and 
told  them  that  he  had  been  sent  to  do  the  will  of  his  Father,  and 
called  on  all  men  to  turn  from  the  error  that  had  crept  in  among 
them,  to  repent  of  their  sins  and  go  dowp  into  the  waters  of  baptism. 
Following  repentance  there  was  something  for  them  to  do  that  was, 
and  is,  necessary  to  obtain  salvation.  Our  brothers  and  sisters  of  the 
world  in  many  cases  do  not  believe  that  baptism  is  essential.  They 
say  it  is  an  outward  form  of  inward  grace.  If  that  were  true, .  then 
why  was  it  necessary  for  the  only  perfect  man  who  ever  lived  upon 
the  earth  to  be  baptized?  When  Jesus  presented  himself  to  John,  at 
the  waters  of  Jordan,  and  bade  him  baptize  him,;  John  replied :  "I  have 
need  to  be  baptized  of  thee,  and  comest  thou  me?",  to  which  the  Savior 
responded:  "Suffer  it  to  be  so  now,  for  thus  it  becometh  us  to  fulfil 
all  righteousness."  He  did  not  say:  "John,  it  is  not  necessary  for  me 
to  be  baptized,  because  I  am  the  Savior  of  the  world."  He  did  not 
indicate  that  he  thought  it  was  unnecessary,  but  to  him  it  was  so 
important  that  he  submitted  himself  to  a  mortal  man  possessing  divine 
authority  to  preach  repentance  and  baptism]  for  the  remission  of  sins. 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


There  is  no  doubt  in  our  minds  that  baptism  is  essential  to  salvation. 
Evidently  the  Redeemer  of  mankind  believed-  it  was.  He  in  whose 
name  we  hope  to  gain  eternal  exaltation,  and  through  whom  we  hope 
for  a  glorious  resurrection,  who  came  into  the  world  and  laid  down 
his  life  that  we  might  live  again,  thought  it  was  ''important  and  neces- 
sary, and  yet  there  are.  many  of  our  Father's  children  who  do  not 
understand  and  do  not  believe  that  the  Lord  requires  it  of  all  men. 
The  Scriptures  contain  several  instructions  regarding  it.  When  the 
Savior  sent  his  disciples  out  he  said  unto  them :  "Go  ye  into  all  the 
world  and  preach  the  gospel  unto  every  creature."  Was  that  all  he 
required?  That  is  what  the  man  of  today  says  who  doesn't  believe  in 
the  divine  mission  of  our  Lord.  Even  the  ministers  of  many  churches 
fail  to  emphasize  the  remainder  of  that  same  paragraph,  but  the 
Redeemer  of  mankind  said :  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the 
gospel  unto  every  creature.  He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be 
saved,  but  he  that  believeth  not  shall  be  damned."  He  didn't  say  that 
they  might  believe  just1  whatever  they  pleased.  He  didn't  say  that  good 
intentions  were  sufficient.  He  didn't  say,  preach  any  gospel  that  you 
please,  but  he  told  them  to  preach  his  gospel  and  observe  all  the 
things  he  had  commanded.  He  said :  "And  they  that  believe  and  are 
baptized  shall  be  saved,"  but  he  didn't  promise  salvation  to  others. 
Our  heavenly  Father  has  made  this  clear  to  your  understanding,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  Church,  and  he  will  hold  you  responsible 
to  teach  it  to  others.  You  understand  it  and  they  do  not.  It  is  a  duty 
of  us  all  to  see  that  it  is  made  as  plain  as  possible,  and  that  the  other 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  are  taught  to  all  men. 

NECESSITY  OF  TEACHING  THE  FIRST  PRINCIPLES  AND  ORDINANCES  OF  THE 


The  necessity  of  faith,  repentance,  baptism,  and  the  laying  on  of 
hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  must  be  emphasized  by  us. 
Many  leaders  throughout  the  religious  world  claim  authority  to  preach 
the  gospel  and  yet;  they  do  not  believe  that  baptism  and  the  laying  on 
of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  are  essential.  The  Lord  has 
revealed  to  us  the  necessity  of  these  ordinances.  He  has  organized 
his  Church  in  this  day,  and  has  conferred  upon  men  divine  authority 
and  has  commanded  them,, as  he  commanded  men  of  old,  to  preach  the 
gospel  in  all  the  world.  We  are  only  a  little  handful  of  people 
among  all  our  Father's  children,  but  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  I 
believe  we  are  more  numerous  than  the  members  of  the  Church  were 
at  the  time  our  Savior  was  crucified.  The  mission  devolving  upon  us 
is  the  same  as  that  given  to  his  disciples  in  Palestine  when  he  sent 
them  into  all  the  world  with  the  command  to  teach  his  truth,  and  our 
reception  by  mankind  is  the  same.  He  told  his  followers  that  they 
would  be  hated  for  his  name's  sake,  should  be  put  out  of  the  syna- 
gogues, and  some  should  be  put  to  death,  and  the  hatred  that  had  been 


GOSPEL. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


41 


his  portion  would  come  upon  them.  The  same  persecutions  have  befal- 
len the  elders  of  his  Church  in  this  latter  day,  as  a  result  of  teaching 
his  truth.  The  same  influences  that  sought  to  destroy  the  Church  in 
the  meridian  of  time,  and  finally  overcame  the  men  who  held  the 
holy  Priesthood,  are  active  in  the  world  today — the  same  power  that 
has  tried  to  destroy  every  good  man  who  has  held  the;  Priesthood,  from 
that  time  until  the  present. 

OUR  DUTY  TO  THE  WORLD  OF  MANKIND. 

Our  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  world  do  not  understand,  as  you 
do,  that  there  is  an  active  Lucifer;  they  do  not  realize  that  there  are 
evil  spirits,  tangible  influences,  abroad  in  the  world,  seeking  to  lead 
men  to  do  the  things  that  will  deprive  them  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
You  understand  these  things,  and  some  of  you  have  known  by  personal 
contact  with  the  powers  of  evil  how  potent  they  are  in  this  world. 
Our  Father  has  given  us  the  knowledge  that  this  life  is  a  probation, 
that  we  are  building  for  the  future,  and  how  grateful  we  ought  to  be 
for  this  assurance,  and  Oh,  how  sad  we  would  be  if  we  thought  that 
death  terminated  our  career.  If,  when  our  life's  labor  on  'earth 
was  finished,  we  had  no  opportunity  to  go  on  developing,  there 
would  be  little  to  inspire  us  to  live  as  we  should  heme.  The  knowledge 
that  all  the  good  we  accomplish  here,  and  all  development  we  make, 
will  enhance  our  happiness  eternally,  encourages  us  to  do  our  best. 
Millions  of  our  Father's  children  in  the  world  do  not  understand  that 
truth,  but  they  have  a  right  to  know  it.  Our  heavenly  Father  has 
commissioned  us  to  take  that  message  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  and  to 
declare  it  in  such  a  way  that  men  must  consider  it,  and  either  take 
advantage  of  it  or  be  left  without  excuse. 

The  Lord  has  not  called  the  great  Catholic  church  to  perform 
this  labor,  nor  the  Methodist,  nor  the  Presbyterian,  nor  the  Baptist 
church.  There  are  men  in,  all  these  churches  that  our  heavenly  Father 
loves  because  of  their  virtue  and  because  of  the  good  they  are  doing, 
but  they  have  not  been  divinely  appointed  to  officiate  in  the  ordi- 
nances of  the  gospel.  He  has  commissioned  you  for  a  special  work. 
You  have  been  ordained  and  had  conferred  upon  you  his  holy  Priest- 
hood. He  has  called  you  out  of  the  world  that  you  might  unite 
in  building  Zion,  and  in  disseminating  his  truth.  Are  you  doing  your 
full  duty?  Are  you  discharging  the  responsibility  that  has  come 
upon  you  in  return  for  your  blessing? 

LET  US  FEAR  THE  BONDAGE  OF  INIQUITY  AS  WELL  AS  THE  BONDAGE  OF 

DEBT. 

We  are  a  wonderfully  blessed  people,  notwithstanding  the  fact 
that  many  are  in  the  bondage  of  debt.  I  wish  that  were  the  onl)y> 
bondage.  I  fear  many  of  the  people  of  this  great  land  are  suffering 
much  more  from  the     bondage  of  iniquity.  Many  have  need  of 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


repentance,  and  if  those  who  have  received  the  word  of  the  Lord  and 
a  witness  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  'will  set  their  houses  in  order,  if 
they  will  teach  their  sons  and  daughters  the  way  of  eternal  life,  and 
exemplify  the  gospel  of  our  Lord  in  their  daily  conduct,  I  have  no  fear 
of  the  financial  outcome.  Our  Father  in  heaven  has  made  a  wonderful 
promise  that  has  been  realized  in  the  nations  of  the  earth.  He  said : 
"Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness."  Mind  you, 
not  last,  but,  "Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness, 
and  other  things  will  be  added."  There  are  those  in  this  audience 
today  whose  parents  came  into  this  land  in  the  depths  of  poverty,  with 
scant  clothing  and  no  shelter,  depending  upon  others  for  food  to 
sustain  life.  They  came  seeking  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  today 
their  descendants  live  in  comfortable  homes,  are  educated  in  the  best 
schools  that  there  are  in  the  World  today,  and  enjoy  surroundings 
that  are  ideal,  as  far  as  conditions  in  this  world  can  make  them  so. 
They  are  honored  among  the  children  of  mten,  known  for  their  virtue, 
for  their  strength  of  character  and  their  intellectual  power.  I  ask 
you  if  the  promise  of  the  Lord  in  many  of  these  cases  has  not  been 
fulfilled?   Surely  "all  other  things  have  been  added." 

THE  PROMISE  OF  ETERNAL  LIFE  CONDITIONAL. 

The  promise  of  the  Lord  that  we  may  enjoy  eternal  life  is  condi- 
tional. That  is,  w.e  must  serve  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  hearts, 
we  must  serve  him  by  caring  for  his  children,  by  blessing  mankind 
.vherever  our  influence  can  be  exerted  to  bring  them  into  the  marvel- 
ous light  of  the  glorious  gospel.  We  must  impart  of  our  temporal 
blessings  as  well  as  exert  our  spiritual  influence  for  the  uplift  oif  our 
fellows.  I  stand  here  today  profoundly  grateful  for  the  knowledge 
that  has  come  to  me.  I  am  thankful  that  I  am  not  dependent  upon 
any  individual  for  the  testimony  that  I  possess.  Of  course,  I  am 
grateful  for  the  encouragement  I  received  from  others  who  possess 
light  and  truth,  and  who  give  encouragement  by  lives  of  righteousness, 
but  I  do  not  depend  on  any  of  them  for  a  knowledge  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  mankind  and  Joseph  Smith 
is  a  prophet  of  the  Lord.    These  things  I  know1  for  myself. 

I  have  been  in  the  valley  of  the  shadow  of  death  in  recent  years, 
so  near  the  other  side  that  I  am  sure  that  for  the  special  blessing  of 
our  heavenly  Father  I  could  not  have  remained  here.  But,  never  for 
one  moment  did  that  testimony  that  my  heavenly  Father  has  blessed 
me  with  become  dimmed.  The  nearer  I  went  to  the  other  side,  the 
greater  was  my  assurance  that  the  gospel  is  true.  Now  that  my  life  • 
has  been  spared  I  rejoice  to  testify  that  I  know  the  gospel  is  true,  and 
with  all  my  soul  I  thank  my  heavenly  father  that  he  has  revealed  it  to 
me. 

I  have  been  permitted  to  perform  missionary  work  in  different 
parts  of  the  world,  an  opportunity  that  I  gratefully  accepted.    I  have 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


43 


been  permitted  to  live  with  and  associate  most  of  my  life  with  real 
Latter-day  Saints,  the  best  men  and  women  that  can  be  found  in  this 
world,  and  our  Father  knows  how  thankful  1  am  for  these  blessings. 
I  love  my  brothers  and  sisters,  and  I  have  affection  for  my  Father's 
children  who  are  not  members  of  this  Church,  and  inasmuch  as  he  will 
give  me  physical  strength  and  mental  power,  I  desire  to  so  order  my 
life  that  I  may  be  an  uplift  to  all  those  with  whom  I  come  in  contact.  I 
desire  to  so  exemplify  the  teachings  of  our  I^ord,  ami  I  presume 
all  my  brothers  and  sisters  feel  as  I  do,  that  when  we  stand  in  the 
presence  of  the  Great  King,  after  the  labors  of  this  life  shall  have 
been  completed,  and  we  answer  to>  him  for  the  time  that  we  have 
spent  here  on  earth,  that  there  will  be  none  who  can  truthfully  say 
we  were  careless  about  dividing  the  truth  with  any  of  our  Father's 
children,  that  none  will  be  able  to  say  of  us  that  we  knew  these  things 
were  true  but  made  no  effort  to  explain  them  to  our  neighbors.  Surely 
we  would  be  condemned  if  one  of  our  associates  in  life  should  stand 
in  the  presence  of  the  Great  Judge  and  say  of  us  that  we  could  have 
taught  him  the  gospel,  if  we  had  made  an  effort,  but  that  because 
of  our  neglect  he  would  be  deprived  of,  a  place  in  the  celestial 
kingdom.  Let  none  of  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  be  justly  accused 
in  that  way.  Unto  its  much  has  been  given,  and  of  us  much  will  be  ex- 
pected by  our  Father  in  heaven.  We  cannot  be  indifferent  to  the  teach- 
ings of  the  gospel,  we  must  not  drift  down  the  stream,  of  life  without  an 
effort.    Every  day  we  should  do  something  worth  while. 

ARE  WE  GRATEFUL  ? 

The  Lord  has  revealed  to  us  so  many  truths  in  this  latter  day 
that  we  are  aware  of,  that  we  cannot  plead  ignorance,  if  we  sin. 
Men  have  been  commissioned  with  divine  authority,  our  Father  has 
organized  his  Church,  and  has  placed  in  it  the  ordinances  of  the 
gospel,  he  has  commissioned  men  to  do  the  same  work  that  the  Savior 
and  his  disciples  did  in  the  Old  World,  and  upon  this  western  hemi- 
sphere, among  the  ancestors  of  the  American  Indians.  The  greatest 
blessings  and  opportunities  of  all  times  have  been  bestowed  upon  us, 
and  the  question  that  should  arise  in  our  minds  for  all  these  mercies  is : 
Are  we  grateful?  Are  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  thankful  to  the 
Lord  for  this  knowledge  that  has  come  to  you?  Do  you  really 
appreciate  what  it  means  ?  If  you  do,  and  desire  that  the  Lord  shall 
know  that  you  appreciate  it,  then  divide  your  blessings  with  his 
children.  To  his  disciple  of  old  the  Savior  said :  "If  you  love  me,  then 
feed  my  sheep."  Let.  us  render  service  to  our  Father's  children,  and 
let  it  be  of  such  nature  that  others  observing  our  good  work  will  be 
constrained  to  glorify  our  heavenly  Father.  Let  us  sustain  those  whom 
God  has  called  to  presidei  over  us.  Let  our  homes  be  the  abiding  place 
of  the  Spirit  that  comes  from  on  high.  Let  us  radiate  an  influence 
for  peace  and  happiness  among  the  children  of  men,  so-  that  our  lives 
will  be  happy  here,  and  when  we  are  summoned  to  the  great  beyond 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


we  will  be  welcomed  by  those  who  have  been  our  companions  in  life, 
and  by  our  Father  in  heaven  because  of  what  we  have  done  for  his 
children. 

I  am  grateful  to  be  home  again,  I  thank  you  one  and  all  for 
the  companionship  of  the  past,  and  hope  that  I  may  have  the 
privilege  of  meeting  you  in  your  wards  and  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and 
when  I  do  that  I  may  be  favored  of  the  Lord  that  through  me  yov 
may  receive  a  blessing.  I  desire  to  cooperate  with  you  to  increase  the 
power  of  this  Church  for  good,  not  only  at  home,  but  throughout 
all  the  world,  and  I  humbly  pray  to  our  heavenly  Father  that  we  may 
so  order  our  lives  that  when  our  work  here  is  completed  we  may 
obtain  eternal  life  in  his  celestial  kingdom  and  enjoy  the  companion- 
ship of  those  we  love  who  have  been  our  associates  here  on  earth, 
and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a 
fire  is  burning,"  and  the  meeting  adjourned  until  10  o'clock,  Friday 
morning,  the  closing  prayer  being  offered  by  Elder  Henry  W. 
Lunt,  President  of  the  Parowan  stake  of  Zion. 


SECOND  DAY 


The  meeting  began  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Friday,  October  7, 
President  Heber  J.  Grant,  presiding. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  let  us  anew  our 
journey  pursue." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  President 
of  the  Pioneer  stake. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice." 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  very  humble,  indeed,  to  stand 
before  you  on  this  occasion,^  for,  I  recognize  how  very  inadequate  any 
man  is  who  attempts,  on  these  occasions,  to  do  wholly  the  will  of 
God ;  but  I  desire  to  say  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  that  I  consider  it 
a  very  high  privilege,  at  any  time,  to  be  allowed  to  bear  my  testimony 
to  the  truthfulness  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  restored  in  these 
latter  days  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  know,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  this  is  God's  work.  I  know1  that  God  lives;  that  he  has 
instituted  the  great  plan  of  salvation  for  the  'benefit  of  his  children : 
that  he  is  watching  over  us  and  that  we  may  rest  ourselves  and  our 
troubles  on  him  and  that  he  will  lead  us  safely  to  the  destined  end. 
There  is  nothing  in  my  life  of  greater  value  than  this:  testimony.  There 
is  no  assurance  in  my  life  more  certain  than  that  this  is  the  work  of 
God,  and  I  am  happy,  as  I  have  said,  to  be  allowed  to  bear  this  testi- 
mony to  my  brethren  and  sisters  assembled.  I  feel  tremendously  the 
responsibility  of  standing  before  you. 

PEOPLE  RESPONDING  TO  THE  REQUIREMENTS   MADE  OF  THE  LORD. 

During  the  last  three  or  four  months,  I  have  been  allowed  to 
visit  nine  or  ten  stakes  of  Zion,  in  conference  and  convention  capacity 
assembled,  and  I  have  been  greatly  impressed  by  the  abundance  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  which  prevails  among  the  people  throughout  the 
stakes  of  Zion.  I  have  marveled  at  the  devotion  and  the  faith  of 
many  whom  I  have  met.  It  has  warmed  my  heart  to  see  the  vigor 
with  which  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  being  conducted  by  young  and 
old.  It  is  difficult  for  me  to  say  which  has  impressed  me  most,  the 
thorough  devotion  of  those  who  are  old  in  the  cause,  or  the  eagerness, 
of  the  young  to  take  upon  themselves  the  harness  of  the  Lord  to  carry 
onward  the  work  of  the  Church.  I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  while  we  may  have  many  weaknesses — indeed  I  am  sure  we  dO' 
have  many  weaknesses — and  may  need  constant  exhortation,  advice 
and  suggestions,  such  as  'we  receive  at  these  and  other  conferences 
throughout  the  Church,  yet  this  people  is  so  strong  in  faith  and  in 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


good  works  that  God  has  made  us — and  I  praise  him  for  it — good 
material  with  which  to  build  this  latter-day  work.  I  believe  the  spirit 
of  God  is  with  this  people,  and  that  the  people  are  responding,!  perhaps 
in  weak  human  ways,  but  are  responding,  to  the  demands  and  require- 
ments made  upon  us  by  our  heavenly  Father. 

A  WONDERFUL  FEAST  AT  THIS  CONFERENCE. 

We  have  had  set  before  us  during  the  meetings  of  this  con- 
ference a  wonderful  feast.  Admonitions  have  been  given,  instructions 
presented,  and  doctrines  taught,  ranging  from  the  very  highest,  if 
you  so  choose  to  call  it,  to  the  very  lowest;  from  the  highest  spiritual 
truths  to  the  common,  every-day,  material  needs  of  man.  It  has  always 
seemed  to  me  that  in  no  particular  does  this  work  more  appear  to  be 
a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  than  in  the  great  body  of  knowledge 
which  has  been  given  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  and  his  successors  in  office.  It  must  be  a  man  of  many 
troubles  indeed  who  has  sat  through  these  two  meetings  of  our  confer- 
ence and  has  not  found,  in  the  words  spoken,  some  key  for  the  solution 
of  his  needs.  As  I  understand  the  body  of  knowledge  which  has  been 
given  to  this  people  by  God,  it  is  so  vast  and  so  comprehensive  that 
it  makes  light  the  remotest  corners  of  human  needs.  There  is  no  place 
in  the  world,  no  condition  of  human  affairs,  which  may  not  be  made 
alive,  really  alive,  by  the  knowledge  which  God  has  revealed  in  these 
latter  days. 

Nevertheless,  I  am  impressed  to  say,  that  although  we  have  so 
wonderful  a  body  of  knowledge,  the  most  known  to  any  people 
on  the  face  of  the  earth,  yet  knowledge  of  itself  is  a  lifeless  and  unsat- 
isfactory thing.  Every  once  in  a  while,  as  we  journey  through  life, 
we.  meet  some  man  who  is  rich  in  knowledge,  but  uses  his  knowledge 
only  as  an  ornament  on  his  intellectual  mantel-shelf  simply  to  be 
looked  at,  to  be  enjoyed  as  an  ornament  and  nothing  more.  There  is 
no  truth  more  certain  in  all  the  world,  than  that  in  order  to  make 
knowledge: — the  things  that  have  been  taught  us,  of  value,  and  really 
beautiful,  and  helpful  in  making  our  lives  real  living  lives,  knowledge 
must  be  put  to  some  use.  Knowledge  unused  is  scarcely  worth  the 
having;  but  knowledge  once  used  leaps  into  light  and  life  and 
becomes  a  bright  flame  to  guide  and  to  help  man. 

TWO  CLASSES  OF  SCHOLARS.  j 

,  The  question  that  has  come  before  me  continuously,  during 
the  two  sessions  of  our  conference,  has  been,  as  I  have  heard  the 
instructions  from  the  stand:  "Will  I  be  able  so  to  apply  these  truths 
as  to  make  them  a  living  force  in  my  life?"  All  humanity  today  may 
be  classified,  I  suppose,  into  two  great  classes  as  far  as  knowledge 
is  concerned — those  who  have  knowledge  and  use  it  not,  and  those 
who  have,  perhaps,  lesser   knowledge    anjd    use    it    well  Those 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  47 

who  use  the  knowledge  are  the  ones  who  today  are  leading  the  world 
in  every  proper  human  activity.  We  have  in  our  universities  and 
colleges  two  great  classes  of  scholars ;  the  non-productive  and  the 
productive  scholar.  We  have  the  scholar  who  merely  teaches  what 
he  has  learned,  and  never  attempts  to  use  it.  He  is  held  in  low 
esteem.  We  have  the  man,  on  the  other  hand,  who  believes  in  -using 
knowledge  as  it  is  given,  to  him,  and  he  becomes  a  productive  scholar. 
He  carries  onward  the  realm  of  knowledge,  expands  it,  increases  it, 
and  becomes  of  great  renown. 

However,  there  are  many  ways  of  using  knowledge.  To  my 
mind  the  greatest  manner  of  using  knowledge,  the  eternal  divine 
knowledge  which  we  have  and  which  we  call  frequently  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  is  to  use  it  in  such  a  way  as  to  benefit  the  whole  human 
race.  Many  men  use  knowledge  for  their  own  sakes.  That  makes 
it  of  less  value.  Indeed  I  suspect  that  one  real  difference  between 
religion  and  ethics  is  in  the  manner  in  which  truth  is  used.  When 
truth  is  used  for  all  men,  for  the  carrying  out  of  some  great  scheme 
of  salvation,  such  as  God  has  provided,  then  knowledge  has  its  noblest 
use  and  worth.  When  it  is  used  only  for  a  few,  for  me  and  my  family 
and  those  near  me,  the  religious  element  tends  to  disappear. 

ETHICS  VS.  A  LIVING,  VITAL  RELIGION. 

I  remember  that,  a  few  years  ago,  we  had  in  this  city  a  visit  from 
three  or  four  members  of  'the  Chinese  republic,  distinguished  men  who 
came  here  to  study  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  taught  by  this 
people,  for  the  express  purpose  of  taking  back  to  China,  if  they 
could,  some  of  the  conclusions  that  we  had  reached,  for  the  upbuilding 
of  the  Chinese  republic.  I  remember  the  question  was  put  to  one  of 
them  at  one  of  our  gatherings :  "Do  you  not  have  in  your  country 
a  sufficient  amount  of  truth  to  guide  you?  Do  you  need  to  come 
to  this  far  western  land,  and  to  this  far  western  state,  to  this  humble 
people,  to  gain  information  that  will  help  you  in  building  the  new 
China  of  which  you  dream  ?"  And  the  wisest  of  them,  an  .old  man, 
rich  in  the  experiences  of  life,  through  his  interpreter,  said  to  the 
small  company  assembled :  "We  have  in  China  a  system,  of  ethics  and 
that  is  all;  we  have  no  real  religion.  Our  system  of  ethics  is  not  so 
organized,  does  not  have  such  life  as  to  be  of  service  for  the  whole 
people;  and,"  said  he,  "the  conclusion  of  four  thousand  years  of 
Chinese  civilization  is  that  ethics  will  never  save  a  people  or  make  a 
people  fully  happy  and  contented.  We  need  a  living,  vital  religion." 

I  am  impressed  always  with  the  fact,  as  I  think  about  these  mat- 
ters, that  the  thing  that  gives  us  life  and  vigor,  and  makes  us  a 
peculiar  people,  different  from  all  other  people,  that  makes  it  possible 
for  us  to  have  'such  a  great  assembly  twice  a  year  as  we  have  in  this 
o-reat  tabernacle,  is  that  we  do  know  a  plan  of  salvation  that  enables 
us  and  requires  us  to  use  all  our  knowledge  for  all  people  of  all  time — 
past,  present  and  future— and  that  we  do  this  work  by  the  authority 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  the  Priesthood,  which  means  simply  that  back  of  the  plan  and 
back  of  our  efforts  is  a  great,  intelligent  Will  who  has  laid  out  the 
plan,  who  is  carrying  it  onward,  and  whose  agents  we  are  in  conduct- 
ing the  work  on  earth.  It  is  the  Priesthood,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
given  to  all  honorable,  faithful  male  members  of  the  Church,  the 
blessings  of  which  the  women  share  with  their  husbands,  which  gi^es 
us  life,  which  makes  this  Church  a  living,  growing  Church  and 
kingdom,  which  separates  us,  if  you  choose,  from  all  other  kingdoms 
on  the  face  of  the  earth,  from  all  other  churches ;  for  no  other  organ- 
ization, so  far  as  I  know,  makes  the  same  claim  in  regard'  to  Priest- 
hood that  we  make. 


A  PRIESTHOOD  WITH  A  TRUE  CONCEPTION  OF  GOD. 

i 

The  conception  of  God  held  by  any  group  of  people  may  well 
be  understood  by  the  nature  of  the  priesthood  which  that  people 
respects.  In  fact,  the  priesthood  of  any  people  is  really  a  definition 
of  the  God  in  which  that  people  believes.  If  we  find  an  impotent 
priesthood,  a  priesthood  that  dallies  Sunday  mornings,  in  the  pulpit, 
with  the  vital  issues  of  life,  the  chances  are  that  that  church  also 
has  a  conception  of  an  impotent  God  who  also  dallies,  Sunday 
mornings,  with  the  vital  issues  of  life.  If  we  find  a  vigorous 
priesthood  which  concerns  itself  with  man's  needs  and  life,  day  and 
night,  from  the  week's  beginning  to  the  week's  end ;  which  attempts 
to  understand  man,  and  to  serve  the  every  need  of  man,  and  which 
guides  the  conduct  of  man  into  large  dreams  of  life ;  then  in  all  proba- 
bility the  group  of  people  sustaining  such  a  priesthood  has  a  concep- 
tion of  a  God  who  is  real,  a  true  Father  of  the  men  and  wo- 
men of  the  earth,  who  teaches  the  brotherhood  of  man. 
The  priesthood  of  this  Church  which  deals  with  all  the  affairs,  tem- 
poral and  spiritual,  of  the  members  of  the  Church,  is  an  evidence  of 
our  conception  of  God:  God  is  our  Father:  we  are  his  children:  he 
understands  us  since  he  has  had,  perhaps,  experiences  similar  to 
ours :  he  looks  into  our  daily  life,  and  unto  him  we  can  go  day  by 
day,  with  the  common,  ordinary  troubles  of  life  and  lay  them  before 
him,  feeling  assured  that  the  God  we  worship  desires  us  to  approach 
him  in  all  things,  and  that  he  will  answer  our  prayer,  even  though  that 
prayer  concerns  itself  with  the  humble,  simple  affairs  of  life.  The 
grandest  conception  of  "Mormonism"  is'  our  conception  of  God. 
It  was  by  divine  purpose  that  the  first  great  vision  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  was  of  the  Father  himself  in  person,  who  to  the  boy 
explained  the  order  of  things,  and  gave  to  the  world  again,  forever, 
as  I  believe,  the  true  knowledge  of  God.  It  was  by  divine  purpose 
when  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  instructed  as  to  the  real  con- 
dition in  the  world  that  necessitated  the  re-establishment  of  the 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God,  that  God  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith : 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


49 


They  have  strayed  from  mine  ordinances,  and  have  broken  mine  everlast- 
ing covenant; 

They  seek  not  the  Lord  to  establish  his  righteousness,  but  every  man  walketh 
in  his  own  way,  and  after  the  image  of  his  own  God,  whose  image  is  in  the 
likeness  of  the  world,  and  whose  substance  is  that  of  an  idol    *    *  *. 

THE  GREAT  NEED  OF  THE  WORLD  IS  A  TRUE  CONCEPTION  OF  GOD. 

The  first  great  message  of  this  latter-day  work  has  been  with 
respect  to  God,  and  my  testimony  to  you  is,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  the  great  need  of  the  world  today  is  a  correct  understanding 
of  God.  this  world  is  in  turmoil  and  strife.  The  old  paths  seem  in- 
sufficient. Men  are  seeking  new  ways  to  solve  new  problems.  They 
are  looking  for  safe  principles  or  guides  which  they  can  apply 
to  these  new  problems  and  test  proposed  new  solutions.  The  only 
path  to  peace  and  happiness  is  through  the  proper  knowledge  of  God, 
including  his  plan  of  salvation ;  and  therein,  and  therein  only,  will  the 
nations  of  the  world  find  what  they  are  seeking  today.  It  is  our  duty  to 
teach  the  word  of  God  to  the  world.  We  shall  have,  as  I  view  it,  no 
real  peace,  no  full  satisfaction  among  the  nations,  until  the  knowledge 
of  the  true  God  is  re-established  and  accepted  among  the  nations 
of  the  earth.  Many  have  made  fun,  in  our  day,  of  those  who  are 
seeking  for  God.  H.  G.  Wells,  the  great  novelist  of  England,  has 
been  ridiculed  because,  during  the  last  few  years,  he  has  been  seeking 
for  God —  a  God  he  could  understand  and  that  his  fellows  could  under- 
stand ;  a  God  who  could  help  the  nations  in  their  trials ;  but  I  believe 
that  H.  G.  Wells  stands  for  a  great  group  of  men  and  women 
throughout  the  world  who  are  God-hungry,  who  understand  that  the 
God  they  have  been  worshiping  is  incomplete,  insufficient,  mystify- 
ing and  mysterious.  They  want  a  God,  or  a,  conception  of  a  God,  who 
may  be  understood  by  plain  and  simple  people;  who  undertsands 
humanity  and  who,  in  a  measure,  perhaps,  is  of  humanity. 

May  God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  carry  to  the  nations  the  great 
and  wonderful  truths  we  possess,  and  may  we  be  given  strength, 
from  time  to  time,  so  to  use  the  knowledge  that  we  have,  that  it 
may  burn  as  a  living  fire  within  our  breasts,  throughout  this  Church 
and  before  all  the  world,  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.  11 

ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 

(President  of  the1  Eastern  States  Mission) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  a  high  sense  of  appreciation  for 
this  privilege  of  standing1  before  you  to  bear  my  testimony ;  and  I  sin- 
cerely desire  to  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  direct  me ;  to  that  end' 
I  beseech  of  you,  sustain  me  by  your  sympathy  and  your  love.  I  have 
enjoyed  more  than  I  can  tell  you  the  remarks  that  have  already 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


been  made  during  our  conference.  I  feel  that  they  are  timely.  They 
are  those  principles  which  we  need  to  apply  in  our  lives.  I  am  glad 
that  I  have  been  considered  worthy  to  be  associated  with  these  good 
men  who  are  directing  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  this  day;  that  I 
have  been  called  into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel,  for  I  know 
it  is  the  gospel  of  our  Redeemer,  that  has  all  the  elements  of  salvation 
within  it,  that  gospel  which  will  save  us,  not  only  spiritually  at  some 
distant  far  off  time,  but  now  and  forever.  It  will  save  us  temporally, 
physically,  intellectually  and  morally  as  well  as  spiritually,  and  I 
feel  highly  honored  to  be  called  of  God  to  go  into  the  world  to  pro- 
claim these  glad  tidings  to  my  fellowmen. 

We  are  meeting  with  fair  success  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 
We  are  being  handicapped  for  lack  of  sufficient  help  just  now.  We 
made  a  good  start  in  many  places,  but  had  to  withdraw  our  forces 
from  a  number  of  localities.  This  I  regret  very  much.  Therefore,  I  ap- 
preciate the  remarks  of  President  Grant  to  you  regarding  this  matter, 
showing  you  the  importance  of  allowing  your  sons  and  daughters 
to  stay  in  the  field  as  long  as  possible  to  the  completion  of  their 
missions.  They  have  been' called  of  the  Lord  and  they  will  be  released 
by  the  same  authority  in  due  time  when  you  have  done  your  part.  O, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  you  cannot  invest  your  means  to  a  better 
purpose.  You  cannot  invest  them  in  a  way  that  will  bring  you  greater 
dividends  than  in  sustaining  your  sons  and  daughters  while  they  are 
proclaiming  these  glad  tidings  throughout  the  world.  I  beg  of  you,  do 
your  part  and  put  your  trust  in  God.  Consult  the  bishop,  as  you  have 
been  instructed  when  you  find  it  impossible  to  maintain  your  sons 
longer,  and  I  believe  you  will  find  that  the  way  will  be  opened  up  so 
you  can  sustain  them  until  they  have  completed  their  misson. 

I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  O,  the  joy  this  sweet 
.sentence  gives :  "I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives."  It  is  the  greatest 
blessing  that  has  come  into  my  life ;  nothing  else  gives  me  so  much 
pleasure  as  to  bear  testimony  of  this.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
Prophet  of  the  living  God,  sent  in  the  latter  days  again  to  establish 
in  the  earth  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God ;  and  I  wish  I  could 
burn  that  testimony  into  the  hearts  of  all  men  with  whom  I  come  in 
contact,  that  they  might  partake  of  the  joy  that  we  experience  in  bear- 
ing witness  of  it,  and  the  joy  that  it  brings  into  my  life  every  day. 
I  cannot  tell  you  how  I  know  this.  I  know  that  I  see  you  before  me, 
and  that  is  through  the  power  of  my  mortal  sense  ;  but  I  believe  it  is 
possible  for  the  mortal  sense  to  be  deceived;  but,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  it  is  not  possible  to  deceive  that  which  is  divine  by  which  pow- 
er these  glorious  truths  are  revealed  to  my  soul.  It  is  true  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  we  have  embraced  the  true  gos- 
ple  of  our  Redeemer,  and  if  we  only  apply  it  to  our  lives  w&  will  earn 
our  salvation  in  God's  kingdom.  We  are  being  saved  now,  not  in  the 
sense  that  the  world  understands  it ;  for  they  say  we  are  saved,  and 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 


51 


cannot  sin,  that  there  is  nothing  more  to  do.  That  is  not  true;  it  is  a 
misunderstanding,  as  I  see  it ;  but  we  are  being  saved  just  as  fast  as 
we  apply  to  our  lives  the  glorious  principles  of  the  gospel  of  our 
Redeemer.  We  are  being  saved  temporally  just  as  fast  as  we  live 
the  laws  pertaining  to  our  temporal  salvation ;  and  if  we  continue 
therein  we  shall  earn  our  salvation  and  exaltation  in  God's  kingdom. 

I  feel  that  I  ought  not  to  take  more  time  this  morning.  I  am 
glad  I  am  here,  and  to  bear  testimony  ,  of  these  things.  My  heart  is 
filled  with  love  for  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  for  the  brethren 
who  are  directing  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  the  latter  days.  T  realize 
it  is  an  honor  to  be  associated  with  them.  T  love  them,  and  T  too,  sus- 
tain them  by  my  faith  and  prayers  and  1  hope  also  by  my  works. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  be  free  in  giving  expression  of  our  love 
in  our  daily  lives.  I  sometimes  think  we  are  too  backward  in  this  mat- 
ter. I  would  rather  have  the  expressions  of  your  good  will  now  than 
your  bouquets  upon  my  casket  when  I  am  gone.  Let  us  be  free  in  fac- 
ing our  fathers  arid  mothers,  putting  our  arms  about  them  and  telling 
them,  face  to  face,  that  we  love  them.  Let  us  greet  our  brothers  and 
sisters  cordially  and  whole-heartedly  and  tell  them  we  love  them 
and  delight  to  be  associated  with  them.  This  should  bring  to  their 
hearts  good  cheer. 

Now,  may  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  May  his 
peace  and  blessings  be  with  you  in  your  homes,  that  you  may  apply 
in  your  lives  the  wonderful  truths  that  have  been  spoken  in  our  con- 
ference, is  my  sincere  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church.) 

I  feel  a  deep  sense  of  responsibility  in  trying  to  express  my 
thoughts  to  this  vast  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  one 
thought  above  all  others  that  has  come  to  my-  mind  is  how  thankful 
I  am  to  my  heavenly  Father  that  I  am  permitted  to  be  a  Latter-day 
Saint ;  that  I,  as  a  member  of  the  Church  of  God,  have  ian  opportunity 
of  mingling  with  you.  How  thankful  I  am,  too,  that  the  Lord  permits 
me  to  hold  the  holy  Priesthood,  with  the  privilege  of  ministering 
among  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  feel  that  a  tremendous  responsibility 
rests  upon  all  who  hold  this  Priesthood;  that  it  shall  be  magnified 
righteously  before  our  heavenly  Father;  that  we  shall  labor  in  the 
ministry  with  kindness,  sympathy,  helpfulness,  and  with  love  un- 
feigned, so  that  the  great  work  of  our  heavenly  Father  may  progress 
in  the  earth  and  accomplish  its  mission  among  the  children  of  men. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  opportunity  of  mingling  my  voice  in  song 
and  prayer,  and  to  listen  to  the  iadvice  and  counsel  of  my  brethren. 
I  hope  we  shall  all  go  home  determined  to  follow  the  splendid  in- 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


structions  to  which  we  have  listened,  all  of  which  are  for  our  spiritual 
and  temporal  welfare. 

I  am  particularly  impressed  by  President  Grant's  advice  that  we 
get  out  of  debt.  Indebtedness  is  one  of  the  great  problems  of  the  day 
facing  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  today  living  under  a  commercial 
system  of  competition  which  has  come  from  the  world,  and  has 
replaced  the  conditions  which  prevailed  in  the  early  settlement  of 
the  valleys. 

Our  present  financial  situation  should  set  us  all  to  Serious  think- 
ing. Is  not  the  time  coming  when  it  will  be  necessary  for  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  return  to  those  earlier  methods  of  living — the  old 
rules  of  co-operation  and  mutual  helpfulness — each  doing  his  share 
in  the  community?  It  was  this  system  of  co-operation  that  built  the 
roads,  canals,  bridges,  cleared  away  the  brush,  organized  towns  and 
villages,  and  laid  the  foundation  for  the  great  communities  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  now  occupy  these  mountain  valleys.  Co-operation 
results  from  the  great  truth  that  human  beings  must  depend  upon 
one  another.  Now  we  finance  all  undertakings  with  money  in  the  form 
of  bonds.  These  bonds  and  certificates  of  indebtedness  are  usually  sold 
outside  the  state,  and  must  be  paid  by  our  labor,  whether  we  are  en- 
gaged in  the  office,  on  the  farm,  or  on  the  range.  Are  we  not  over- 
reaching ourselves  and  becoming  the  "hewers  of  wood  and  drawers 
.  of  water"? 

■  We  cooperate  wonderfully  in  spiritujal  things.  Our  system  of 
organization,  and  the  operation  of  the  stakes,  wards  and  missions,  are 
the  admiration  of  all  unbiased  investigators.  In  all  the  pffairs  of  the 
wards  and  stakes,  cooperation  is  the  basic  idea.  But  when  it  comes  to 
business,  we  are  actuated  purely  by  the  spirit  of  competition.  Th|at 
competition  is  for  the  profit  of  individuals  or  groups  of  individuals, 
and  not  in  the  interest  of  the  community.  Under  our  present  com- 
petitive system  of  living,  you  will  find  in  the  small  communities  a 
number  of  people  in  commercial  pursuits,  supplying  our  needs  for 
the  purpose  of  making  profit  for  themselves.  Why  not  develop  the 
spirit  by  which  the  community  owns  these  institutions?  Why  not 
develop  cooperative  purchasing  as  we  are  now  developing  cooperative 
selling?  This  coopeiative  spirit  could  be  developed  in  the  cultivation 
of  large  tracts  of  land,  in  flocks  and  herds,  merchandising,  banking, 
canals  and  water  problems,  and  in  many  other  ways,  some  of  which 
have  already  been  developed  in  the  older  states  and  in  the  countries 
of  Europe. 

I  just  want  to  leave  this  thought  to  set  us  thinking  more  about 
this  great  problem  of  living,  to  see  if,  in  the  near  future,  we  can  put 
into'  operation  some  of  the  earlier  methods  in  vogue  among  the 
Pioneers  and  early-comers  to  these  valleys;  when  there  was  no  money, 
when  labor  was  wealth,  and  the  ability  to  work  and  apply  labor  in- 
telligently created  wealth  for  the  community. 

I  again  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  miy  thankful- 
ness and  appreciation  for  the  gospel.  I  know  this  to  be  the  work  of 
God,  for  the  Lord  has  manifested  it  to  me  in  many  ways,  and  I  thank 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


53 


him  with  all  my  heart,  and  with  all  my  mind  and  with  all  my  soul 
that  I  am  a  Latter-day  Saint. 

May  he  bless  us  with  the  disposition  to  understand  the  gospel, 
to  manifest  it  in  our  daily  lives,  so  that  we  may  grow  spirtiually  day 
by  day  stronger  in  the  faith  and  more  willing  to  keep  his  command- 
ments, I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

{President  of  the  Mexican  Mission.) 

I  esteem)  it  a  very  great  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
stand  before  you  this  morning  and  bear  my  testimony  because  I  know 
that  the  gospel  is  true.  I  know  that  it  has  been  restored  to  us  in  this 
day  and  age  in  which  we  live,  with  all  the  gifts  and  blessings  and 
the  powers  and  privileges  that  have  .ever  pertained  to  it  in  any  age 
of  the  world.  I  am  very  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  I  am  a  member  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Later-day  Saints.  I  am  thankful  to  the 
Lord  for  the  holy  Priesthood  that  I  bear  and  for  the  calling  that  has 
come  to  me  to  minister  in  the  world  as  a  missionary.  The  happiest 
time  of  my  life-  and  I  think  the  most,  profitable  to  me,  has  been  spent 
in  missionary  labors  among  the  children  of  men  who  have  not  been 
acquainted  with  these  glorious  principles,  of  the  gospel  that  we  as  a 
people  enjoy.  I  feel  that  if  the  Lord  requires  it  at  my  hands,  I  can  feel 
happy  in  spending  the  rest  of  my  life,  or  as  much  of  it  as  he  requires 
of  me,  in  ministering  the  gospel  to  the  people  of  the  world  who  are 
not  acquainted  with  these  gjorious  and  saving  principles.  I  am  very 
grateful  that  at  this  conference  the  president  of  the  Church,  whom  we 
sustain  as  prophet,  seer  and  revelator,  has  spoken  to  Israel  concerning 
the  missionary  work  that  is  expected  of  us.  I  think  that  there  is  no  work 
or  responsibility  resting  so  heavily  upon  the  membership  of  this  Church 
today  as  that  of  disseminating  the  gospel  among  the  children  of  men. 
As  I  travel  up  and  down  the  country  and  see  the  millions  of  people 
who  are  in  spiritual  darkness  but  who  are  honest  in  heart,  who  are 
desirous  of  doing  right,  and  who,  if  they  err,  err  in  ignorance,  I 
feel  greatly  resting  upon  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  respon- 
sibility of  carrying  to  them  the  gospel.  We  are  grateful  to  have  your 
sons  and  daughters  laboring  with  us  in  the  mission  field  and  I 
trust  that  the  admonitions  that  have  come  from  the  president  of  the 
Church  at  this  conference,  will  be  followed  by  the  fathers,  mothers  and 
brothers  and  sisters,  and  by  the  bishops  of  this  Church,  in  that  they 
will  encourage  their  sons  and  daughters  and  the  members  of  the 
wards  to  remain  in  the  mission,  rather  than  to  suggest  to 
them  that  they  discontinue  their  labors  at  an  early  date.  When 
we  are  cultivating  the  fruits  of  the  field,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  we 
do  not  pick  the  peach  or  apple,  or  garner  the  wheat  before  it  is  ripe. 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

I  sometimes  think  that  those  fathers  and  mothers  who  are  so  anxious 
for  their  sons  to  come  home  are  doing-  that  very  thing,  and  their 
boys  have  not  ripened  in  the  service  of  the  Lord.  They  come  home  and 
sometimes  are  not  in  as  fair  a  way  to  make  a  success  after  they  re- 
turn as  they  would  be  were  they  left  a  little  longer  in  the  missionary 
field. 

Our  work  has  prospered  during  the  year  that  has  passed,  in  the 
Mexican  mission.  We  have  never  baptized  in  any  single  year  of  the 
history  of  that  mission  so  many  people  as  w.e  have  baptised  during  the 
months  that  have  passed  of  this  year  of  1921.  With  sixty  missionaries 
laboring  we  have  baptized  two  hundred  and  twenty-five  people,  and 
they  are  wonderfully  faithful  in  their  living  of  the  gospel.  I  am  grate- 
ful to  the  Lord  that  he  has  privileged  me  with  my  brethern  to  re-open 
the  mission  in  the  Republic  of  Mexico,  after  a  term  of  years  that  we 
have  not  been  able  to  labor  there  due  to  the  revolutionary  conditions ; 
and  I  am  thankful  to  him  for  the  faithfulness  and  integrity  and  the 
faithful  lives  of  the  Saints  who  were  left  there  for  years,  as  it  were, 
as  sheep  without  a  shepherd.  They  have  remained  faithful.  We  have 
been  able  to  hold  conferences  with  them  recently  as  in  the  years  that 
are  past  and  they  gather  around  the  elders  and' are  anxious  to  hear 
again  the  gospel  taught  among  them,  and  their^  lives  are  an  example 
worthy  of  imitation  before  the  people  with  whom  they  are  surrounded. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know 
that  God  lives;  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son  and  is  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  I  bear1  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God,  raised  up  to  establish  this  work  in  the  day  and 
age  we  live  in,  and  I  know  that  he  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church 
today  is  in  very  deed  a  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  unto  the  world,  and 
I  for  one  wish  to|  follow  his  counsel  and  advice  and  admonition  and 
put  my  life,  so  far  as  I  can,  in  harmony  with  the  principles  of  the 
gospel.  The  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  help  us  all 
to  serve  him  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH 

{President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission) 

I  believe  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  believe  that  when 
God  opened  the  heavens,  one  hundred  years  ago,  and  gave  to  the 
children  of  men  thq  knowledge  of  himself  and  his  purposes, 
he  commenced  a  most  momentous  work,  and  that  when  he  gave 
to  us,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  responsi- 
bility of  carrying  his  message  to  all  corners  of  the  earth, 
he  meant  that  we  should  do  the  work.  I  believe  in  the  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel,  not  only  in  the  first  principles  of  faith,  repent- 
ance, baptism  by  immersion,  and  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the 


ELDER  WIN  SLOW  FARR  SMITH 


55 


gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  but  I  believe  also  in  the  temporal  principles 
of  the  gospel,  those  all  important  ordinances,  those  vital  laws, 
those  rigid 'rules  of  conduct  that  have  been  given  to  us  by  which 
we  should  order  our  lives,  and  I  believe  implicitly  that  God  had 
a  purpose  when  he  gave  to  us  a  strict  and  a  rigid  plan  for  us  to 
live.  He  will  have  a  tried  people  and  in  order  for  us  to  be  a  tried 
people  we  must  keep  his  commandments  and  live  up  to  the  rigid 
law  he  has  given.  I  believe  that  the  purpose  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  not  only  to  save  the  souls  of  men,  but  to  save  also  their 
bodies,  and  that  if  we  strive  to  save  our  bodies  and  shape  our  lives 
here  on  earth  in  harmony  with  the  temporal  plan,  the  rest 
will  take  care  of  itself.  In  the  Book  of  Alma  we  read : 

Behold,  now  7  say  unto  you  that  he  commandeth  you  to  repent;  and 
except  ye  repent,  y.e  can  in  no  wise  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God.  But  be- 
hold, this  is  not  all — he  has  commanded  you  to  repent,  or  he  will  utterly 
destroy  you  frcpi  off  the  face  of  the  earth;  yea,  he  will  visit  you  in  his  an- 
ger, and  in  his  fierce  anger  he  will  not  turn  away.  Behold  do  ye  not  re- 
member the  words  which  he  spake  unto  Lehi,  saying  that:  Inasmuch  as 
ye  shall  keep  my  commandments,  ye  shall  prosper  in  the  land?  And  again 
it  is  said  that:  Inasmuch  as  ye  will  not  keep  my  commandments  ye  shall 
be  cut  off  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord. 

I  believe  the  Lord  knew  whereof  he  spoke  and  that  he  had  a 
purpose,  a  definite  and  a  positive  purpose,  in  giving  to  us  the 
commandments,  that  we  have.  I  believe  also  that  unless  we  strive 
to  keep  these  commandments ;  unless  we  exert  ourselves  to  the  ut- 
most to  obey  his  divine  law,  we  cannot  look  for,  hope  for,  nor 
will  we  receive,  the  blessings  that  are  promised  upon  the  keeping 
of  those  laws.  We  have  been  blessed  as  a  people.  We  have  been 
gathered  from  all  the  corners  of  the  earth.  We  have  been  sustained 
by  our  heavenly  Father  in  times  of  adversity.  We  have  triumphed, 
as  it  were,  over  the  most  momentous  obstacles,  and  today  the 
light  of  Zion  stands  here  shining  from  the  tops  of  the  mountains, 
and  (he  world  is  looking  up  and  .admiring  the  wonderful  work  we  are- 
doing.  We  dare  not,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  feel  that  we  have  accom- 
plished all.  No,  we  have  merely  begun.  The  work  stands  before  us. 
The  great  field  is  here  to  be  harvested.  The  world  must  be  prepared. 
God  has  given  us  the  responsibility.  The  charge  is  on  our  heads, 
and  the  burden  is  ours.  Our  duty  is  to  preach  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  by  precept  and  by  example.  Our  calling  is  to  prepare 
the  world  for  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  and  if  we  will  do  our  duty,  if 
we  will  exert  ourselves  to  the  utmost,  if  we  will  work,  full  of  faith, 
full  of  zeal,  full  of  determination,  and  give  everything  that  we  have, 
our  hearts,  our  souls  and  our  strength,  the  world  will  be  prepared, 
and  when  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  comes  to  reign  as  King  of  kings 
and  Lord  of  lords,  we,  his  people,  will  be  accepted  by  him.  God 
help  us  and  sustain  us  to  do  that  which  he  has  given  us-  to  do, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

(President  of  the  Central  States  Mission.)  , 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  privilege 
of  attending  this  conference ;  I  feel  that  the  Lord  has  greatly  blessed 
all  who  have  been  here.  The  success  which  comes  to  this  Church 
I  think  is  largely  the  result  of  its  members  meeting  together,  in 
general  conferences  and  in  local  gatherings,  where  they  can  receive 
instructions  and  counsel  which  they  try  to  carry  out  in  performing 
the  work  they  have  been  sent  into  the  world  to  do. 

A  great  responsibility  rests  upon  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints:  The  gospel  which  our  Savior  gave  to  his  apostles 
in  the  dispensation  of  time  in  which  he  lived  has  been  revealed  anew 
in  this  dispensation  and  the  same  Priesthood  that  has  been  in  the 
earth  always  under  his  direction  is  here  today  in  the  valleys  of  the 
mountains  in  Israel,  where  Israel  is  gathered  and  centered  to  carry 
out  the  great  plan  which  our  Father  in  heaven  made  before  the 
earth  was.  This  people  are  a  great  people ;  I  feel  that  we  owe  a  great 
debt  to  our  Father  in  heaven  for  what  he  has  done.  We  have  assuredly 
been  blessed.  There  isn't  any  doubt  in  the  mind  of  any  man  or  woman, 
I  am  sure,  who  has  followed  in  his  life  the  authority  of  the  .Lord 
Jesus  Christ  but  that  he  has  seen  the  return  of  the  Lord's  blessings 
to  latter-day  Israel  With  greater  force  than  they  were  bestowed  in 
former  days.  I  am  sure  that  the  Church  of  Christ  in  the  earth  is 
stronger  today  than  it  was  yesterday,  but  that  it  will  never  be  weaker 
than  it  has  been  in  the  past,  but  that  it  will  grow ;  and  as  the  days  come 
and  go,  the  strength  of  the  Almighty  will  be  manifested  in  greater 
power  upon  the  children  of  men  than  it  has  ever  been  before,  until 
he  comes. 

When  I  look  into  the  faces  of  men  and  women  who  are  not  of 
this  Church,  I  feel  that  I  owe  unto  them  a  testimony,  if  it  is  within 
my  power  to  give  it.  For  they  lived  at  a  former  time  and  they  kept 
their  first  estate-  I  often  tell  this  to  our  missionaries  in  the  field — 
that  when  they  look  upon  the  face  of  any  man  or  woman  they  must 
remember  one  thing,  that  that  man  or  woman  kept  the  first  estate. 
They  may  not  have  kept  their  estate  as  well  as  others  have,  but 
the  fact  nevertheless  remains  that  they  lived  and  were  advanced  as 
a  result  of  their  obedience.  They  received  the  blessings  of  the  Almighty 
which  gave  them  the  privilege  of  living  here  in  the  flesh  and  receiv- 
ing the  blessings  of  the  flesh,  for  it  is  a  blessing  to  be  permitted 
to  live  in  a  body  of  flesh  and  bone.  It  is  our  duty  to  warn  them,  to 
warn  ourselves,  to  receive  admonition  and  to  give  it  unto  others ;  for 
just  so  surely  as  the  sun  shines,  as  the  Lord  has  said,  there  will  come 
a  time  when  men  will  be  rewarded  according  to  their  works ;  and 
when  men  and  women  find  out  what  they  have  lost  as  a  result  of  their 
disobedience,  the  Lord's  word  will  be  fulfilled,  and'  there  will  be 
weeping  and  wailing  and  gnashing  of  teeth. 

it  is  the  duty  and  labor  of  Latter-day'  Saints  to  deliver  unto  the 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


57 


children  of  men  the  message  which  the  Lord  has  revealed  in  these  the 
last  days.  He  spoke  unto  Joseph  Smith.  He  said  the  things  Joseph 
Smith  declared  he  said.  He  delivered  unto  him  the  gospel,  and  the 
Prophet  wrote  and  preached  it.  There  isn't  any  doubt  about  it.  I  know 
as  I  stand  here,  and  I  say  it  to  all  the  world :  If  there  is  an  honest 
man,  a  man  or  a  woman  with  a  heart  that  desires  to  know  the  truth, 
that  knowledge  can  come  unto  them.  It  is  easy  to  receive,  easy  to 
understand.  The  gospel  is  not  full  of  mysticisms  or  of  things  that 
cannot  be  understood,  but  it  is  a  plain  and  simple  plan  which  the 
children  of  men  may  follow  and  thereby  go  back  into  the  presence  of 
our  Father  in  heaven.  And  unless  they  do  this  they  cannot  return 
where  he  is,  worlds  without  end;  so  says  the  scripture  given  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

These  things  are  given  to  the  world  and  the  words  that  he  gave 
to  the  world  have  stood  the  test  ever  since  they  came  into  the  earth. 
For  nearly  one  hundred  years  the  Book  of  Mormon  has  been  before 
the  people,  and  it  has  never  been  proved  to  be  untrue;  but,  on  the 
contrary,  as  every  year  comes  and  goes  it  is  proved  to  be  a  truth  by 
many  hundreds  of  men  and  women.  More  witnesses  are  added  to  the 
divinity  of  that  work.  And  so  it  is  with  the  revelations  of  the  Lord 
in  this  dispensation  of  time.  This  gathering  itself  is  a  witness — it  is 
a  witness  unto  any  man  or  woman  who  might  walk  into  this  building 
with  a  desire  in  his  heart  to  know  whether  this  is  the  work  of  God — 
this  great  congregation  and  the  Spirit  and  power  of  God  felt  here 
are  witnesses  and  will  stand  for  or  against  men  at  some  future  day. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  the  privilege  to  live  faithfully  unto  the 
end  of  our  lives,  that  we  may  return  unto  him,  that  we  may  send  our 
sons,  and  daughters,  and  our  message  unto  the  world  to  bring  as 
many  souls  unto  Christ  as  is  possible  in  the  few  short  years  we 
remain  on  the  earth,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Christ.  Amen. 

A  cello  solo,  "Andante,"  was  rendered  by  Seymour  Fisher, 
accompanied  on  the  great  organ  by  Edward  P.  Kimball,  Assistant 
organist. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church) 

I  feel  weighing  heavily  upon  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
responsibility  that  comes  to  me  at  this  time.  Nevertheless,  I  am 
grateful  unto  God  for  this  privilege  of  bearing  testimony  to  you, 
and  I  sincerely  pray  that  he  will  give  me  strength  to  speak 
words  of  encouragement.  It  is  a  wonderful  privilege  to  stand 
here  and  look  into  the  faces  of  those  gathered  together  in  this 
conference,  and  a  great  responsibility  to  endeavor  to  instruct 
you  in  your  duties.  This  truly  is  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder. 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  thought  yesterday,  when  President  Grant  mentioned  the  fact 
that  we  have  nearly  eighteen  hundred  missionaries  in  the  world, 
preaching  the  gospel,  how  many  of  us  here  at  home  fully  realize, 
or  in  a  sense  realize,  the  great  missionary  work  that  is  being  done. 
Every  man  holding  the  Priesthood  of  this  Church,  who  is  magnifying 
his  calling  before  God,  is  preaching  the  gospel,  and  when  I  have  seen 
the  work  that  is  being  done  on  this  block  by  Brother  Goddard  and 
his  associates,  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  I  am  sure  I  am  safe  in 
saying  that  the  missionary  work  being  done  right  here,  where  the 
temple  of  the  living  God  is  located,  "the  mountain  of  the  House  of 
the  Lord  established  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  exalted  above  the 
hills,"  is  a  "marvelous  work  and  a  wonder."  How  many  of  us  realize 
that  hundreds  of  thousands  are  coming  here  to  our  very  doors  each 
year  to  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord.  I  wonder  sometimes  if  the  power 
of  the  Priesthood,  and  the  manifestations  of1  the  power  of  God  through 
it.  are  not  so  common  to  us  that  we  pass  them  by,  day  by  day,  giving 
little  heed  to  the  warnings  and  encouragement  they  bring. 

The  other  day  it  was  my  privilege  to  meet  a  reverend  gentleman 
on  this  block.  After  discussing  some  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel  with 
Mm,  he  expressed  a  wish  to  know  something  more  concerning  "Mor- 
monism,"  so  called.  It  was  my  privilege  later  to  take  him  to  visit 
one  of  our  Sabbath  schools  where  those  holding  the  Priesthood  were 
meeting  as  quorums.  He  passed  from  one  class  to  another,  ending 
where  the  High  Priests  were  in  session.    In  going  from  the  classes 
where  he  saw  young  men  ranging  from  twelve  to  twenty  years  of 
age  present  in  goodly  numbers,  he  said,  "Bishop  Smith,  how  do  you 
do  it?  How  do  you  get  them  here?  We  can't  do  it,  iwe  can't  touch 
men  of  this  age."  I  answered :  "See  what  they  are  studying.  These 
young  men  hold  the  Priesthood ;  they  are  deacons,  teachers  and  priests, 
having  been  ordained  by  those  who  have  authority  from  God  to  do 
so.  This  Priesthood  fills  them,  if  they  keep  themselves  clean,  with  a 
desire  to  study  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  There  is  a  place  in  the 
Church  for  them  to  function..  Their  greatest  desire  is  to  honor 
the  Priesthood  and  magnify  their  calling  so  that  some  day  they  will 
"be  found  ready  and  worthy  to  go  into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ — this  gospel  which  they  are  studying.  That  is  the 
desire  that  actuates  them  and  brings  them  here  Sunday  after  Sunday". 
He  said,  "How  do  you  get  these  young  men  here  who  are  acting 
as  instructors  ?  How  much  do  you  pay  them  for  this  work  ?"  I  referred 
this  question  to  the   superintendent   of  the   Sunday  school,  who 
answered:  "There  is  only  one  man  in  this  building  who  receives  a 
salary  for  his  work,  and  he  is  paid  for  doing  the  janitor  work."  The 
gentleman's  reply  was:  "It  is  marvelous!  It  is  a  wonder!   I  am 
bewildered  with  it  all.  The  only  thing  I  can  compare  it  with  is,  if  you 
will  pardon  the  comparison,  a  three  ring  circus.  You  have  given  me  so 
much  to  think  about,  I  am  bewildered.  I  think  I  am  safe  in  saying  that 
you  have  here  in  this  house  today  more  people  assembled  for  the 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  ..  59 

purpose  of  worshiping-  God  than  we  have  in  the  whole  county  where 
I  live."  His  home  is  in  another  state. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  those  of  us  who  hold  the  Priesthood 
have  great  responsibility. .  You,  fathers  and  mothers,  have  a  great 
responsibility.  My  special  calling  in  this  Church  is  tq  guard  and  guide 
the  youth  of  Zion,  and  to  encourage  those  who  have  been  ordained  to 
the  Lesser  Priesthood,  which  Priesthood  holds  the  keys  to  the  minist- 
ering of  angels  and  the  preparatory  gospel,  which  is  the  gospel  of 
repentance,  and  of  baptism,  and  the  remission  of  sins.  It  prepares 
young  men  to  do  the  greater  work  required  of  them  in  later 
life.  In  that  Priesthood,  as  we  are  today,  the  duties  of  the  priest  are  to 
preach,  teach,  expound,  exhort,  to  baptize  and  administer  the  Sacra- 
ment ;  to  visit  the  house  of  each  member,  and  exhort  them  to  pray, 
vocally  and  in  secret,  and  to  attend  to  all  family  duties.  The,  duty  of  a 
teacher  is  to  watch  over  the  Church  always,  and  be  with  and 
strengthen  them,  to  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity  in  the  Church,  no  back- 
biting, evil  speaking  or  lying.  The  duty  of  the  deacon,  the  little 
fellow,  the  beginner,  is  to  assist  the  teacher,  to  keep  order  in  the  meet- 
ing house,  and  be  on  hand  at  all  times  to  labor  as  directed  by  the 
bishop,  to  perform  outward  ordinances  which  help  him  to  grow  and 
become  strong  in  the  faith  and  useful  in  the  hands  of  God.  How  many 
of  us  realize  the  blessings  that  have  been  promised  to  us  through  the 
Priesthood  ? 

And  the  inhabtants  of  Zion,  also,  shall  remember  their  labors,  inas- 
much as  they  are  appointed  to  labor,  in  all  faithfulness ;  for  the  idler 
shall  be  had  in  remembrance  before  the  Lord.  Now,  I  the  Lord,  am  not 
well  pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  for  there  are  idlers  among  them; 
and  their  children  are  also  growing  up  in  wickedness;  they  also  seek  not 
earnestly  the  riches  of  eternity,  but  their  eyes  are  full  of  greediness.  (Doc. 
&  Cov.  68:30-31.) 

There  is  work  provided  for  all,  and  all  are  expected  to  work,  and 
are  rewarded  according  to  their  faithfulness. 

For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  obtaining  these  two  Priesthoods  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their  calling,  are  sanctified  by 
the  Spirit  unto  the  renewing  of  their  bodies;  they  become  the  sons  of 
Moses  and  of  Aaron,  and  the  seed  of  Abraham,  and  rue  Church  and 
Kingdom  and  the  elect  of  God;  and  also  all  they  who  receive  this  Priest- 
hood receiveth  me,  saith  the  Lord;  for  he  that  receiveth  my  servants  re- 
ceiveth  me;  and  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth  my  Father;  and  he  that 
receiveth  my  Father,  receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  therefore  all  that 
my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him";  [not  a  part,  not  a  portion,  but 
all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him],  "and  this  is  according 
to  the  oath  and  covenant  which  belongeth  to  the  Priesthood.  Therefore* 
all  those  who  receive  the  Priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and  covenant  of  my 
Father,  which  he  cannot  break,  neither  can  it  be  moved;  but  whoso  break- 
■eth  this  covenant,  after  he  hath  received  it,  and  altogether  turneth  there- 
from, shall  not  have  forgiveness  of  sins  in  this  world  nor  in  the  world  to 
come.  (Doc.  &  Cov.  84:33,  41.) 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Oh,  I  sincerely  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we.  will 
magnify  our  calling  in  the  Priesthood.  Oh,  elders  of  Israel,  let  us  see 
that  there  is  work  for  those  holding  the  Lesser  Priesthood.  See  that 
these  young  men  whose  mission  is  to  labor  in  the  Lesser  Priesthood 
have  work  to  do,  and  as  we  are  commanded  here,  take  them  with  us : 

And  if  any  man  among  you  be  strong  in  the  spirit,  let  him  take  with 
him  he  that  is  weak,  that  he  may  be  edified  in  all  meekness,  that  he  may 
become  strong  also.  Therefore,  take  with  you  those  who  are  ordained 
unto  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  and  send  them  bfeore  you  to  make  appoint- 
ments, and  to  prepare  the  way,  and  to  fill  appointments  that  you  yourselves 
are  not  able  to  fill.  Behold,  this  is  the  way  that  mine  apostles,  in  an- 
cient days,  built  up  my  Church  unto  me.  Therefore,  let  every  man  stand 
in  his  own  office,  and  labor  in  his  own  calling;  and  Jet  not  the  head  say 
unto  the  feet,  it  hath  no  need  of  the  feet,  for  without  the  feet  how  shall 
the  body  be  able  to  stand?  Also  the  body  hath  need  of  every  member  that 
'  all  may  be  edified  together,  that  the  system  may  be  kept  perfect."  (Doc. 
&  Cov.  84:106-110.) 

God  help  us  to  do  our  duty,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  inj  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 

{President  of  the  Canadian  Mission.) 

With  all  my  heart  I  am  thankful  for  membership  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  thankful  that  I  know 
that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  in  this  Church.  I  am  thankful  that 
I  have  had  the  privilege  of  telling,  in  a  humble  way,  some  of  the 
children  of  men  of  the  great  things  which  God  has  wrought  in  our 
day  and  time.  I  sincerely  pray  in  my  heart  that  I  shall  always  have 
the  strength  and  the  desire  to  do  my  part  in  proclaiming  the  knowledge 
of  these  great  things  to  the  children  of  men. 

I  have  had  occasion,  frequently,  while  laboring  in  the  Canadian 
Mission,  to  discover  the  marks  of  truth  in  the  gospel  which  we  teach. 
Jesus  said,  "I  came  not  to  bring  peace  but  a  sword."  Carlyle  stated 
the  same  idea  in  the  terse  phrase,  "Every  fact  is  a  battle."  The  greater 
the  fact,  the  greater  the  battle.  Truth  is  the  greatest  fact  in  the  world. 
I  have  noticed  that  the  truth  that  we  teach  does  have  the  characteris- 
tics of  a  battle.  Just  a  few  weeks  ago  a  very  intelligent  gentleman  in 
the  city  of  Toronto  visited  three  street  meetings  upon  the  same  eve- 
ning. These  three  meetings  were  all  being  conducted  at  the  same  time. 
In  two  of  them  bitter  attacks  were  being  made  upon  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  The  other  meeting  was  being  conducted  by  our  elders.  The 
gentleman  visited  the  two  anti-"Mormon"  meetings  and  then  finally 
came  to  the  meeting  in  which  our  elders  were  preaching  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  He  remained  at  this  meeting  to  the  close.  At  the  con- 
clusion of  the  service,  he  approached  one  of  the  elders  and  told  of 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 


61 


his  attendance  at  the  other  two  meetings  and  asked  the  question, 
"Are  the  'Mormons'  the  only  people  in  the  world?"  Well,  I  hardly 
think  that  the  Mormons  are  the  only  people  in  the  world,  but  I  am 
quite  sure  that  they  have  the  only  religion  in  the  world  that  has 
substance  enough  in  it  to  keep  the  devil  awake  at  nights. 

I  have  had  occasion  to  witness  the  purifying  and  ennobling  power 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Some  months  ago  a  young  man  came  to 
our  mission.  He  was  a  graduate  of  the  University  of  Utah.  In  the 
course  of  our  conversation  I  asked  him  how  he  was  going  to  maintain 
himself  in  the  field  and  he  said,  "I  have  been  teaching  school  for 
four  years  and  I  have  saved  a  little  money.  I  am  going  to  spend  this 
money  in  maintaining  myself  in  the  mission  field."  That  remark  is 
one  of  the  most  eloquent  sermons  I  have  ever  heard.  It  is  also  one 
of  the  best  testimonies  of  the  divinity  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  I 
have  ever  heard. 

I  have  also  had  occasion  to  notice  the  greatness  and  generosity 
of  the  Saints  at  home,  in  maintaining  their  sons  and  daughters  upon 
the  firing  line  of  truth.  A  few  days  ago  one  of  my  companions  came  to 
me  regarding  his  release.  In  the  course  of  our  conversation  he  said, 
"I  have  just  received  a  letter  from  my  father,  in  which  he  writes : 
'It  is  hard  to  get  money  at  the  present  time.  I  have  kept  five  sons  in 
the  mission  field,  but  I  don't  want  you  to  think  about  coming  homle 
until  you  receive  an  honorable  release.'  " 

I  recall  another  letter  which  was  received  from  a  good  mother 
in  Israel,  who  had  reared  ten  children.  This  letter  was  written  to  a 
sister  of  one  of  our  missionaries.  The  good  mother  wrote  his  sister, 
"I  would  rather  take  in  washing  every  day  to  keep  my  son  in  the 
field,  than  to  think  of  his  coming  home  until  he  has  completed  his 
mission." 

I  want  you  to  know  that  I  treasure  the  memory  of  these  things 
above  the  price  of  rubies.  They  testify  of  great  souls,  of  souls  that 
have  been  made  pure  and  great  by  the  power  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  With  all  my  heart  I  am  thankful  for  my  membership  in  the 
Church  that  produces  this  kind  of  souls.  I  am  thankful  for  the  testi- 
mony of  the  truth  which  God  has  written  upon  my  heart  by  the  fire 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  know  that  this  is  the  kingdom  of  the  living  God. 
I  know  that  there  is  in  this  Church  the  power  and  tjhe  Priesthood  of 
God.  I  know  that  there  is  in  this  Church  the  riches  of  God's  truth 
and  God's  wisdom.  I  do  know  that  Heber  J.  Grant  is  a  Prophet  of 
God.  The  promise  which  he  sealed  upon  my  head  when  I  was  set 
apart  for  my  last  mission  has  been  fulfilled — a  promise  which  no 
human  power  could  make  come  true. 

My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  let  us  remember  who  we  are  and  what 
our  mission  is  in  the  world,  and  let  us  humbly  and  faithfully  do  our 
part,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

( Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy ) 

No  doubt  all  of  us  who  have  had  the  privilege  of  attending  these 
conference  meetings  have  felt  that  it  was  good  for  us  to  be  here.  I 
think  that  upon  .each  occasion  of  one  of  these  annual  or  semi-annual 
conferences  a  little  different  situation  confronts  the  people.  They  are 
in  need  of  a  little  different  line  of  advice;  and  I  felt,  as  President 
Grant  gave  his  opening  speech,  that  we!  had  heard  the  right  word,  and 
that  it  only  remained  for  us  to  follow  the  good'  advice,  and  that  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  spiritually  and  temporally,  in  this  intermountain  country, 
would  be  greatly  heightened  thereby,  I  think  the  one  thing  that  we 
need,  perhaps  more  than  any  other,  is  obedience.  Our  third 
article  of  faith  declares  that  salvation  by  the  atonement  is  conditioned 
upon  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  Another 
article  of  faith  calls  for  obedience  to  the  sovereign  civil  power  and  its 
laws.  Many  of  the  evils  of  the  day  result  from  the  lack  of  obedience 
to  the  gospel  and  to  the  laws  which  govern  us.  Our  modern,  scriptures, 
(he  revelations  unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  are  particularly  strong 
in  expressions  as  tq  the  necessity  of  obedience,  in  order  for  us!  to  have 
the  benefit  of  the  great  sacrifice  made  by  our  Lord  and  Redeemer. 
In  simplest  form,  perhaps,  it  is  expressed  thus:  "My  blood  shall  not 
cleanse  them  if  they  hear  me  not." 

In  the  Old  Testament  there  are  many  strong  passages  indicating 
the  necessity  of  obedience  in  order  for  us  to  have  the  benefit  of  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  and  of  the  atonement  and  of  the  promises. 
When  our  'brother  quoted  from  the  Book  of  Mormon,  from  Alma,  I 
thought  of  a  similar  doctrine,  as  expressed  in  the  eleventh  chapter 
of  Deuteronomy,  in  the  twenty-seventh  and  twenty-eighth  verses,  that 
there  would  be  a  blessing  by  obedience,  and  a  curse  for  those;  who  did 
not  obey.  We  have  some  very  striking  examples  in  scripture  of  the 
view  which  the  Lord  took  of  disobedience.  In  the  instance  of  the 
taking  of  Jericho,  the  very  taking  of  it  was  based  upon  obedience.  It 
would  not  have  been  sufficient  if  they  had  not  complied  with  the 
direction  as  to  the  number  of  times  that  they  should  march  around  the 
city  before  it  would  be  their  privilege  to  take  it.  They  were  under  strict 
command  that  it  was  not  an  expedition  for  spoils,  and  when  one  Achan 
disregarded  that  injunction  and  had  to  confess  later  that  he  had  within 
his  tent,  the  Babylonish  robe,  and  the  wedge  of  gold,  and  the  shekels 
of  silver,  he  was  taken  out  and  stoned  by  his  comrades,  because  they 
realized  then  the  necessity  of  obedience.  King  Saul  no  doubt  learned 
his  bitter  lesson  when  the  same  rule  applied  to  him,  that  it  was  not 
an  expedition  for  private  profit  that  he  entered  upon  in  proceeding 
against  one  of  the  heathen  nations  that  merited  destruction.  When 
there  could  be  heard  the  bleating  of  the  sheep  and  the  lowing  of  the 
cattle,  which  he  had  saved  contrary  to  instructions,  and  he  felt  that 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


63 


he  had  incurred  the,  displeasure  of  Samuel  and  also  of  the  Lord,  how 
deep  must  have  been  his  regret ;  how  he  would  have  retained  Samuel 
to  have  him,  if  possible,  wipe  out  the  penalty  for  the  act  of  disobe- 
dience. Another  instance  is  the  healing  of  the  blind  man  by  bathing  in 
the  pool  under  the  directions  of  the  Savior.  Of  course,  be  could  not 
have  received  his  sight  by  disobeying  or  any  failure  to)  comply  with 
the  directions  that  had  been  given  him  whereby  he  might  receive  his 
sight.  So,  not  only  in  the  Church,  but  in  the  family  circle,  there  is 
need  of  obedience.  If  time  permitted  I  think  we  might  read  with 
profit  at  this  point,  the  second  epistle  of  the  Apostle  Paul  to  his 
"son  in  the  common  faith,"  as  he  called  Titus,  but  time  will  not 
permit.  Let  the  Latter-day  Saints  read  this  scripture  and  read  more 
of  thei  scriptures,  for  I  feel  that  there  is  great  profit  to  us  in  so  doing. 

We  are  living  in  a  time  of  commotion.  We  are  still  in  the  struggle 
of  what  has  been  called  the  "back-wash  of  the  war."    It  is  a  time 
of  unsettled  conditions.    The  right  of  suffrage  has  been  widely 
extended  throughout  the  earth.  There  has  come  within  the  scope  of 
governmental  powers  increased  duties  and  increased  powers,  and  men 
are   trying   to    keep   their   bearings   by   fixing   their   gaze  upon 
the   land   marks.     I   thank   the   Lord    for    the    marks   that  we 
have  in  this  latter-day  revealed  religion  of  ours ;  that  we  have 
been   kept   steady,   just   as   an   ex-secretary   of  state   found  dur- 
ing the  war  evidences  of  steadiness  here  among  our  people.  We 
might  now  have  fewer  instances  of  suffering  and  more  evidences 
that  we  are  prepared,  to  stand  not  only  the  shock  of  war  but  thq  shock 
of  war's  aftermath,  if  there  had  been  more  obedience.    People  have 
passed  through  a  stressful  time  during  the  last  few  years.  You  people 
within  the  sound  of  my  voice  can  testify  to  that,  if  not  from  personal 
experience,  from  the  instances  in  the  lives  of  your  friends,  some  of 
whom  have  gone  down  in  the  financial  struggle.    I  know  of  one 
instance  of  creditors  pursuing  their  debtor,  and  after  the  struggle  of 
the  debtor  had  been  so  severe  that  he  in  the  meridian  of  his  life  had 
been  a  victim  of  adverse  circumstances,  and  had  given  his  life  as 
forfeit,  the  merciful  creditor  then  greatly  rejoiced.  In  speaking  to  me 
of  it,  he  expressed  great  joy  that  he  had  exercised  mercy  and  for- 
bearance and  had  not  contributed  in  any  way  to  the  untimely  taking 
off  of  his  brother.  Some  find  themselves  in  the  position  they  now 
are  in  as  the  result  of  disobedience,  failure  to  hearken  to  the  counsel 
of  their  stake  presidents.  I  know  of  some  neighborhoods  where  there 
is  financial  distress,  and  the  people  feel  the  pinch  of  indebtness,  just 
now  as  a  result  of  failing  to  obey  the  caution  given  them  by  their 
respective  stake  presidents.  I  feel  sure  that  the  remedy  has  been 
offered  for  any  little,  or  any  considerable,  inconvenience  that  the 
people  may  be  passing  through  just  now,  if  they  will  hearken  to  the 
voice  of  our  prophet,  seer  and  revelator.  You  are  familiar   with  the 
story  of  the  necessity  for  the  cleaning  up  of  a  municipality  in  olden 
times,  in  order  to  properly  receive  certain  guests ;  and  the  consideration 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

by  the  municipal  authorities  as  to  how  they  could  do  it  upon  short 
notice.  Someone  suggested  that  each  one  clean  in  front  of  his  own 
property.  That  is  all  we  have  to  do,  it  seems  to  me,  each  one  of  us, 
whether  we  belong  to  the  Church  or  not,  each  one  to  whom  this 
message  of  the  opening  address  of  this  conference  comes,  to  be 
obedient,  to  give  heed  to  the  suggestions,  and  the  distress  and  dis- 
comfiture, if  any  exists,  will  surely  disappear. 

I  rejoice  in  the  blessings  and  truths  of  the  gospel.  I  felt,  as 
Elder  Widtsoe  gave  his  testimony  at  the  opening  of  his  speech  this 
morning,  that  that  would  be  my  testimony,  and  I  would  like  it  as 
such,  without  taking  your  time  more  to  repeat  it.  I  would  simply 
like  to>  make  his  testimony  and  the  testimony  of  others  of  the  brethren 
whom  we  have  listened  to  today,  my  testimony.  I  rejoice  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth.  I  marvel  as  I  read  the  scriptures  at  the 
evidences  that  have  been  given,  line  upon  line,  chapter  upon  chapter, 
section  upon  section,  of  the  fact  that  Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  a 
prophet  of  God :  that  not  only  knowledge,  but  wisdom  dwelt  with 
him.  Someone  has  given  us  the  distinction  between  the  two  and  said. : 
"Knowledge  dwells  in  heads  replete  with  thoughts  of  other  men: 
wisdom  in  minds  attentive  to  their  own.  Knowledge  is  proud  that  it 
knows  so  much ;  wisdom  is  humble  that  it  knows  no  more." 

We  can  learn  even  from  that  people  whose  representatives  were 
referred  to  by  Elder  Widtsoe.  I  have  often  admired  the  emphasis 
they  place  upon  honoring  parents.  They  have  said  that  out  of  a 
hundred  virtues,  the  first  to  be  listed  would  be  "filial  piety,"  the 
honoring  of  parenthood ;  and  they  also  said  that  "out  of  ten  thousand 
evils,  lewdness  would  be  placed  as  the  first,"  as  the  most  offensive. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  be  obedient  to  the  will  of 
our  Father,  and  to  live  according  to  the  conditions  upon  which 
blessings  are  predicated,  that  we  may  be  the  happy  recipients  of  the 
same,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I 

Elder  Hart  has  asked  you  to  read  from  the  scripture.  I 
thought  I  would  do  the  same ;  and  then,  while  considering  it,  I  believe 
that  nine  out  of  ten  of  you  would  not  do  it,  so  I  am  going  to  read 
an  entire  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants :  Remember  this 
is  the  word  of  the  Lord  Almighty,  a  revelation  from  God  to  his 
people,  the  very  first  section  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

Hearken.  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who 
dwells  o,n  high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I  say, 
hearken  ye  people  from  afar,  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea, 
listen  together. 

For  verily,  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape,  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not 
hear,  neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


65 


And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow,  for  their  in- 
iquities shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be 
revealed. 

And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of 
my  disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days. 

And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  ior  I,  the  Lord, 
have  commanded  them. 

Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and  the  authority  of  my  servants,  and 
my  preface  unto  the  book  of  my  commandments,  which  I  have  given 
them  to  publish  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

Wherefore,  fear  and  tremble,  O  ye  people,  for  what  I,  the  Lord,  have 
decreed  in  them  shall  be  fulfilled. 

And  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  they  who  go  forth,  bearing  these 
tidings  unto  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  to  them  is  power  given  to- seal 
both  on  earth  and  in  heaven,  the  unbelieving  and  rebellious; 

Yea.,  verily,  to  seal  them  up  unto  the  day  when  the  wrath  of  God 
shall  be  poured  out  upon  the  wicked  without  measure; 

Unto  the  day  when  the  Lord  shall  come  to  recompense  unto  every 
man  according  to  his  work,  [not  according  to  his  profession,  not  accord- 
ing to  his  knowledge,,  mot  according  to  the  testimonies  he  bears,  but  ac- 
cording to  his  work]  and  measure  to  every  man  according  to  the  measure 
which  he  has  measured  to  his  fellow  man. 

Wherefore  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  that  all 
that  will  hear  may  hear: 

Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye  for  that  which  is  to  come,  for  the  Lord  is  nigh; 

And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  is  kindled,  and  his  sword  Is  bathed  in 
heaven,  and  it  shall  fall  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth; 

And  the  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed;  and  the.  day  cometh  that 
they  who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  his 
servants,  neither  give  heed  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles  shall 
be  cut  off  from  among  the  people; 

For  they  have  strayed  from  mine  ordinances,  and  have  broken  mine 
everlasting  covenant; 

They  seek  not  the  Lord  to  establish  his  righteousness,  but  every  man 
walketh  in  his  own  way,  and  after  the  image  of  his  own  God,  whose  image 
is  in  the  likeness  of  the  world,  and  whose  substance  is  that  of  an  idol, 
which  waxeth  old  and  shall  perish  in  Babylon,  even  Babylon  the  great, 
which  shall  fall. 

Wherefore  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come  upon 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith,,  Jr.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments; 

And  also  gave  commandments  to  others,  that  they  should  proclaim 
these  things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this  that  it  might  be  fulfilled,  which 
was  written  by  the  prophets; 

The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall'  come  forth  and  break  down  the 
mighty  and  strong  ones,  that  man  should  not  counsel  his  fellow  man, 
neither  trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh, 

But  that  every  man  might  speak  in  the  name  of  God  the  Lord,  even 
the  Savior  of  the  world; 

That  faith  also  might  increase  in  the  earth; 

That  mine  everlasting  covenants  might  be  established; 

That  the  fulness  of  my  gospel  might  be  proclaimed  by  the  weak  and 
the  simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  and  before  kings  and  rulers. 

Behold,  I  am  God  and  have  spoken  it;  these  commandments  are  of 
me,  and  were  given  unto  my  servants  in  their  weakness,  after  the  manner 
of  their  language,  that  they  might  come  to  understanding, 

And  inasmuch  as  they  erred  it  might  be  made  known: 

And  inasmuch  as  they  sought  wisdom  they  might  be  instructed: 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


And  inasmuch  as  they  sinned  they  might  be  chastened,  that  they 
might  repent; 

And  inasmuch  as  they  were  humble  they  might  be  made  strong,  and 
blessed  from  on  high,  and  receive  knowledge  from  time  to  time: 

And  after  having  received  the  record  of  the  Nephites,  yea,  even  my 
servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  might  have  power  to  translate  through  the 
mercy  of  God,  by  the  power  of  God,  the  Book  of  Mormon; 

And  also  those  to  whom  these  commandments  were  given,  might  have 
power  to  lay  the  foundation  of  this  church,  and  to  bring  it  forth  out  of  ob- 
scurity and  out  of  darkness,  the  only  true  and  living  church  upon  the  face 
of  the  whole  earth,  with  which  I,  the  Lord,  am  well  pleased,  speaking  unto 
the  church  collectively  and  not  individually, 

For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allow- 
ance; 

Nevertheless,  he  that  repents  and  does  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  forgiven; 

And  he  that  repents  not,  from  him,  shall  be  taken  even  the  light  which 
he  has  received,  for  my  spirit  shall  not  always  strive  with  man,,  saith  the' 
Lord  of  Hosts. 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  I  the  Lord 
am  willing  to  make  these  things  known  unto  all  flesh, 

For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know 
that  the  day  speedily  cometh;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand, 
when  peace  shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power 
over  his  own  dominion; 

And  also  the  Lord  shall  have  power  over  his  saints,  and  shall  reign 
in  their  midst,  and  shall  come  down  in  judgment  upon  Idumea,  or  the 
world. 

Search  these  commandments  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  my- 
self: and  though  the  heavens  and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not 
pass  away,  but  shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the 
voice  of  my  servants,  it  is  the  same; 

For  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is  God,  and  the  Spirit  beareth  record, 
and  the  record  is  true,  and  the  truth  abideth  for  ever  and  ever.  Amen. 

A  revelation  from  the  Lord  God  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  the  choir,  and  the  congregation  sang, 
"Who's  on  the  Lord's  side,  who?" 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  John  A.  Elison,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Raft  River  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

The  meeting  was  opened  at  2  o'clock  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant,  who  announced  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would 
sing,  "Do  What  is  right,  the  day  dawn  is  breaking." 

After  the  singing,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Clarence  Gardner,  President  of  the  Star  Valley  stake. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who 
communed  with  Jehovah." 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


67 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

(President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission) 

To  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah  was  given  a  wonderful 
promise.  The  Lord  said  to  him:  "Thy  people  shall  never  be  turned 
against  thee  by  the  testimony  of  traitors."  This  promise  has  been 
enjoyed,  is  enjoyed,  and  will  be  enjoyed  by  every  president  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  ;  and  with  our  leaders 
we  will  go  on  to  victory,  the  victory  which  will  win  for  us  eternal 
life,  growing  up  in  all  good  things,  perfected  in  doctrine,  in  Jesus 
Christ,  our  head. 

It  was  a  soul-thrilling  message  that  our  president  delivered  unto 
us  yesterday  morning.  He  stirred  up  our  minds  by  way  of  remem- 
brance to  the  divine  mission  of  this  Church:  this  mission  is — "And 
this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world  for 
a  witness  unto  all  nations;  and  then  shall  the  end  come."  "Where 
there  is  no  vision,  the  people  perish."  In  this  Church  this  vision  is 
a  broad  and  glowing  light,  and  whenever  we  do  not  sense  sufficiently 
our  mission  of  preaching  the  gospel,  it  is  a  sign  that  our  vision  is 
dimming,  and  hence  the  necessity  of  prophets  and  apostles  to  remind 
jus  of  oua*  duties,  and  to  make  more  clear  this  glorious  vision 
which  should  always  be  before  the  eyes  of  every  Latter-day  Saint. 

The  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ  abides  in  this  Church.  Some  of  our 
young  men  may  grow  slack,  seemingly  indifferent;  but  sooner  or 
later  will  come  in  their  lives  a  great  awakening.  The  testimony  will 
flame  up  in  their  hearts  in  time  of  need.  It  may  be  that  it  will 
require  the  winds  of  opposition  to  make  this  flame  spring  up  in  their 
souls,  but  sooner  or  later,  in  their  direst  need,  it  will  come  to  them ; 
and  this  is  a  comfort  and  joy  to  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
A  young  man  laboring  in  the  Georgia  conference,  several  years 
ago,  said  he  believed  in  the  gosped,  came  on  a  mission  because  he 
felt  it  was  his  duty  to  come,  but  he  could  not  say  in!  his  heart  that 
he  knew  the  gospel  was  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  After  he 
had  labored  in  the  conference  a  couple  of  weeks,  he  and  his  companion 
were  attacked  by  a  mob.  The  mobocrats  chased  these  young  men 
for  about  two  miles,  and  when  the  young  man  who  said  he  had  not 
a  .testimony,  had  outdistanced  his  pursuers,  he  faced  about  and,  point- 
ing his  hand  in  the  direction  of  the  mob,  said :  "I  know  this  gospel 
is  true."  Thus  there  came  into  that  young  man's  soul  the  great 
awakening  light.  ,  ( 

The  Church  is  the  mother  of  men  grown  strong  in  giving.  I 
believe  that  affiliation  and  adversity  play  an  important  part  in  our 
lives.  I  am  reminded  of  the  words  of  Alma,  the  Nephite  prophet,  in 
the  thirty-second  chapter  of  the  book  bearing  his  name.  Some  poor 
people  came  to  him  and  declared  that  they  had  been  cast  out  of  their 


> 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


synagogues  because  of  their  exceeding1  poverty.  Alma  had  the  courage 
to  give  them  the  counsel  they  most  needed.  I  believe  it  takes  as 
much  moral  courage  sometimes  to  teach  the  poor  as  it  does  to  counsel 
the  rich.  These  people  were  poor  in  this  "world's  goods,  and  poor  in 
spirit.  God  said:  "Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit  who  come  unto  me." 
Unto  these  poor  in  heart  Alma  said: 

I  say  unto  you,  it  is  well  that  ye  are  cast  out  of  your  synagogues, 
that  ye  may  be  humble,  and  that  ye  may  learn  wisdom;  for  it  is  necessary 
that  ye  should  learn  wisdom;  for  it  is  because  that  ye  are  cast  out,  that  ye 
are  despised  of  your  brethren,  because  of  your  exceeding  poverty,  that  ye 
are  brought  to  a  lowliness  of  heart;  for  y.e  are  necessarily  brought  to  be 
humble,  blessed  are  ye;  for  a  man  sometimes,  if  he  is  compelled  to  be  hum- 
ble, seeketh  repentance;  and  now  surely,  whosoever  repenteth,  shall  find 
mercy;  and  he  that  findeth  mercy  and  endureth  to  the  end,  the  same  shall 
be  saved.  And  now  as  I  said  unto  you,  that  because  ye  were  compelled  to 
be  humble,  ye  were  blessed,  do  ye  not  suppose  that  they  are  more  blessed 
who  truly  humble  themselves  because  of  the  word." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  will  future  historians  write  the  melancholy 
story  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  compelled  to  be  humble  ?  I  don't 
think  they  will.  I  believe  that,  aside  from  afflictions,  from  prosperity, 
we  should  always  humble  ourselves  because  of  the  word,  because 
we  know  that  this  gospel  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 
This  personal  testimony  that  comes  to  our  sons  and  daughters,  this 
testimony  that  they  receive  when  they  are  baptized,  when  eight 
years  of  age  and  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands  by  the  servants  of  God,  this  testimony  is  the  secret 
and  the  reason  for  the  steadfastness  of  the  members  of  this  Church. 
Against  this  testimony — which  is  the  heritage  of  God's  sons  and 
daughters — the  gates  of  hell  shall  never,  no  never,  prevail.  Amen. 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

(Late  President  of  the  South  African  Mission.) 

What  an  inspiration  it  is  to  look;  upon  this  sea  of  faces,  of  people 
who  have  lived  the  gospel  and  who  are  striving  to  live  it.  What  a 
joy  it  is,  I  say,  to  be  here  in  your  midst.  I  come  as  a  foreigner.  For 
eight  years  I  have  been  in  the  South  African  mission.  I  remember 
when  I  was  called  to  go  there  some  of  my  friends  said :  "O,  get  it 
changed.  Don't  go  down  am'ong  the  heathen,"  and  I  said  to  them: 
"But  who  am  I  that  I  can  have  my  mission  changed?  I  believe 
that  the  authorities  of  this  Church  are  men  called  of  God,  and  if 
they  ask  us  to  do  anything  ilt  is  from  God  himself,  and  who  am  I  that 
I  can  tell  the  Lord  that  he  does  not  want  me  in  South  Africa? 
These  men  who  preside  over  the  Church  are  God's  servants  and  when 
they  speak  to  us  they  speak  with  authority:  and  we  have  no  right 
to  suggest  to  them,  or  to  the  Lord,  that  he  does  not  know  where  he 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


69 


wants  us.  Wonderful  has  been  the  manifestations  of  the  Lord  shown 
to  me  in  that  land.  They  said  I  was  going  down  there  among  the 
heathen.  How  surprised  I  was  to  find  out  the  laws  and  rules  under 
which  they  live !  When  I  came  home  I  discovered  that  in  some  re- 
spects we  are  following  in  the  footsteps  of  the  heathen.  I  found 
when  we  landed  in  New  York,  that  we  wore  just  about  as  many  clothes 
as  the  heathen  did  in  South  Africa  (Laughter).  They  have  some 
other  customs  that  would  be  well  for  us  to  copy  after,  as  well  as  this 
custom.  They  have  a  rule  or  law  down  there  which  compels  all  the 
stores  to  close  down  one-half  day  each  week;  and  upon  that  half- 
day  the  populace  go  out,  and  they  have  their  sports  and  their  games. 
They  have  another  law  which  compels  every  store,  even  the  drug 
stores,  to  close  upon  the  Sabbath  day — down  amongst  the  heathen, 
if  you  please  ;  and  there  are  no  moving  pictures  there  upon  the  Sab- 
bath day.  Why,  I  was  preaching  in  one  of  the  wards  one  evening 
when  an  ice-cream  wagon  came  along,  clanging  its  bell,  and  some  of 
the  folks  went  out  and  bought  a  cone: — I  suppose  to  keep  themselves 
awake  until  I  finished  talking.  But  these  things  are  not  right  to  my 
mind — speaking  as  a  foreigner,  as  one  of  the  members  of  the  Church 
who  comes  from  a  foreign  country  to  Zion,  to  learn  of  uplifting  laws 
and  ways ;  why  can't  we,  Latter-day  Saints,  see  to  it  that  the  Sabbath 
clay  is  honored'  and  respected  in  our  midst?  Why,  the  law  should  go 
out  of  Zion,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from,  Jerusalem.  Then  why  do 
we  not  have  these  rules  in  our  own  places  of  residence1 — right  here  in 
Zion?  Another  law  they  have  down  there;  no  one  can  buy  fire-arms 
in  that  country  who  has  not  a  permit  from  the  magistrate;  so  that 
only  loyal  citizens  are  enabled  to  secure  fire-arms.  I  never  heard 
of  a  hold-up  in  that  country  all  the  while  I  was  there.  Think  of  it.  Here 
in  Zion,  every  time  I  pick  up  a  paper,  I  read  of  dozens  of  them.  Why 
is  it?  We  might  well  copy  after  some  of  the  laws  and  rules  that  the 
heathen  have.  Let  me  tell  you,  down  there  they  have  good  laws,  for 
it  is  one  of  the  dominions  of  the  British  Empire,  and  the  people  make 
their  own  laws. 

The  Lord  did  not  fail  us  in  that  mission,  thank  heaven.  He  sent 
a  man  down  there  in  my  place  who  is  in  very  deed  a  servant  of  God, 
and  now  the  way  is  opened  up  so  more  missionaries  can  go  to  South 
Africa.  One  of  them  has  already  arrived  there,  a  young  lad  who  went 

all  the  way  to  South  Africa ;  he  has  been  permitted  to  enter,  and  he 
is  there  now  with  President  J.  Wyley  Sessions,  who  is  presiding  over 
that  mission.  And  let  me  say  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  if  youi  have 
a  son  who  is  called  to  that  mission,  rejoice  in  the  fact,  for  he  is  down 
there  with  a  man  of  God,  and  there  is  no  better  place  to  be  in  all  the 
world. 

By  way  of  closing  I  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  to 
show  you  all  how  the  Lord!  takes  care  of  his  own.  You  remember  in 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  awful  October  when  the  "flu"  came  over  the  earth,  we  had  it  down 
there.  My  mother  wrote  me  from  Salt  Lake  City  and  said:  "Son, 
nearly  one  hundred  people  have  died  here  during  October."  In  return 
I  answered  and  said :  "O  mother,  if  only  one  hundred  had  died  in  a 
day  how  happpy  we  would  have  been  here;  but  it  was  one  hundred, 
two  hundred,  three  hundred,  four  hundred,  five  hundred  in  a  day; 
and  when  a  week  had  passed  five  thousand  people  had  died  in  the 
city  of  Cape  Town  alone,  which  is  about  the  size  of  Salt  Lake  City. 
When  the  second  week  had  ended  ten  thousand  people  had  been  taken 
by  the  scourge." 

.  Think  of  it,  brethren  and  sisters ;  and  yet  here  we  complain 
because  one  hundred  had  died  in  a  month).  During  this  time  of  death 
and  desolation,  it  crept  into  the  mission  house.  Out  elders  went 
down  with  the  dread  disease.  Only  one  besides  myself  was  left  upon 
his  feet — Elder  Aaron  U.  Merrill,  a  grandson  of  the  late  Apostle 
Merrill,  of  Cache  valley.  I  said  to  Elder  Merrill:  "Are  you  prepared 
to  go  with  me  to  bless  the  people?"  He  said:  "I  will  go,  President." 
Mind  you,  we  saw  children  dragging  their  parents'  coffins  along  the 
street.  But  soon  the  coffins  were  all  gone,  and  then  we  saw  forty 
and  fifty  bodies  wrapped  in  sack-cloth,  placed  upon  motor  trucks  and 
taken  off  to  the  cemetery  and  thrown  into  trenches.  Some'  of  our 
friends  we  carried  away  in  bread  wagons,  others  in  wheel  bar- 
rows, others  were  carried  away  on  the  shoulders  of  men.  Death  and 
desolation  all  about  us!  When  it  came,  there  were  fifty-seven  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  went 
down  to  their  beds  with  this  dread  sickness.  Elder  Merrill  and  I  went 
from  door  to  door.  Half  of  these  people  should  have  died,  according 
to  the  rules  of  the  game.  The  first  door  we  came  to  we  found  a  young 
woman,  a  girl,  who  had  married  a  man  outside  the  Church.  We 
opened  the  door  and  walked  in,  because,  mind  you,  people  were 
unable  to  answer  knocks.  Some  places  they  went  into,  they  found 
as  many  as  eight  dead  lying  around  in  different  rooms,  some  in  the 
bed  room,  others  out  by  the  water,  where  they  had  been  trying  to 
get  a  drink,  and  where  they  had  died.  When  this  man  saw  us,  he 
told  us,  in  his  delirium,  to  get  out;  but  we  refused.  We  got  him  on 
to  the  bed.  We  saw  that  he  was  dangerously  ill.  The  doctor  had  been 
there  just  a|  little  while  before,  and  had  said  that  both  of  them  were 
dying.  We  administered  to  this  younsj  woman,  according  to  the 
pattern  which  was  set  by  our  Lord  and  Savior,  and  which  James  tells 
us  of;  and  the  Lord  raised  her  up.  We  went  from  house  to  house 
administering  to  the  members  of  the  Church  who  were  sick  with  that 
dread  disease,  and  the  Lord  raised  up  every  one  of  therm.  Not  one 
Latter-day  Saint  died  in  the  citv  of  Cape  Town.  One  of  the  elders, 
Elder  Charles  Elmer  Sessions  from  Kimberly,  wrote  to  me  and  said: 
"President,  the  Lord  has  not  refused  to  acknowledge  a  single  one 
administration."    Think  of  it,  brethren  and  sisters.  Why,  we  have  God 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 


71 


with  us  here,  here  in  Zion.  We  have  the  Priesthood  here.  The  miracles 
are  not  to  be  read  about  in  only  the!  scriptures.  Christ  did  not  perform 
the  last  one,  nor  his  apostles;  but  he  said  that  greater  things  than  he. 
did  should  we  do ;  and  we  have  that  power  here  with  us.  Let  us  exer- 
cise our  faith,  to  the  end  that  we  might  raise  even  the  dead ;  because 
I  testify  to  you  that  I  have  seen  thq  dead  raised.  God  bless  us  here  in 
Zion,  help  us  to  live  the  gospel  and  to  follow  in  the  foot-steps 
and  take  the  advice  of  the  leaders  of  this  Church,  is  my  prayer,  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission) 

I  feel  I  can  do  no  better  during  the  brief  moments  I  occupy  this 
position  than  to  .  add  my  humble  testimony  to  the  inspiring  one  to 
which  we  have  just  listened,  concerning  the  spirit  and  power  of  the 
Almighty  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  wherein  his  authority  is  recog- 
nized and  his  blessing  bestowed  upon  those  who  receive,  through  the 
ordinances  of  the  gospel,  the  administration  of  the  elders.  I  shall 
refer  briefly  to  an  incident  of  recent  occurrence  in  my  own  home,  in 
which,  as  many  of  my  friends  here  know,  Sister  Iverson  was  seriously 
ill,  and  the  manifestation  of  God's  power  on  her*  behalf  was  marvelous 
in  very  deed.  I  think  of  it  with  unspeakable  gratitude  in  my  heart; 
but  I  shall  pass  to  another  incident  even  more  striking  than  this  one, 
though  this  was  a  marvelous  manifestation  of  our  Father's  love 
and  power  in  response  to  the  prayers  that  were  offered  and  the  fast 
that  was  observed,  not  alone  in  the  mission  field  but  by  the  hundreds 
of  kind,  sympathetic  friends  here  in  Zion.  To  them  we  feel  obligated 
and  extend  our  sincere  thanks  and  gratitude. 

The  incident  T  desire  to  refer  to  is  an  experience  which  came 
to  a  sister  residing  in  Portland,  the  president  of  the  Young  Ladies' 
Mutual  Improvement  Association,  who,  when  set  apart  by  President 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  shortly  before  I  came  into  the  mission,  protested 
that  she  should  not  accept  the  position  because  of  the  state  of  her 
health.  But  by  him  she  was  promised,  in  a  blessing  given  in  con- 
nection with  her  setting  apart,  that  if  she  would  accept  the  position 
the  Lord  would  give  her  sufficient  strength  to  attend  to  the  duties 
of  this  calling  and  the  meetings  of  the  organizations.  Her  testimony 
is  that  she  has  never  absented  herself  from  these  meetings,  notwith- 
standing she  has  made  equally  great  efforts  on  other  occasions  to 
attend  Sunday  evening  services,  but  often  was  unable  so  to  do. 
Her  health  seemed  to  continue  to  fail  her  and  last  November  her 
condition  became  serious,  and  grew  rapidly  more  serious  until  June 
of  the  present  year.  In  the  meanwhile  many  eminent  physicians  were 
consulted,  and  lastly  a  clinic  of  specialists,  the  senior  member  of 
which  is  a  very  distinguished  surgeon  and  physician,  concerning  whom 
the  Mayos  have  said  so  long  as  they  have  him  in  the  northwest, 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


it  is  useless  to  send  patients  to  Rochester.  Under  these  specialists, 
she  passed  for  examination  from  nine  o'clock  one  morning  until  five 
in  the  afternoon,  seven  men  having;  examined  her,  and  the  conclusions 
were  that  she  was  afflicted  with  cancer  of  the  abdomen.  I  do  not  know 
the  exact  location,  hut  every  indication  and  every  conclusion  of 
these  men  was  that  she  was  suffering  from  cancer.  Moreover  I 
am  told  that  she  was  also  suffering  from  a  dropping  of  the  stomach 
and  bowels.  The  growth  in  the  abdomen  was  not  only  perceptible  to 
the  touch  but  plainly  visible  to  the  eye.  When  it  was  decided  that  she 
undergo  an  operation,  after  she  had  been  administered  to,  about  two 
weeks  before  her  going  to  the  hospital  for  this  examination,  and  the 
decision  was  reached  on  the  afternoon  preceding  the  morning  on 
which  the  operation  was  to  be  performed,  word  was  sent  out  to  the 
Saints  and  the  elders,  requesting  that  they  meet  in  fasting  and  prayer 
on  that  particular  morning.  At  nine  o'clock  in  the  morning  she  was 
placed  upon  the  table,  the  anaesthetic  was  administered,  and  the 
surgeon  rolled  down  the  sheet  and  he  was  just  about  to  make  the 
incision  when  the  abdomen,  inflated  highly  as  it  was,  deflated  before 
his  eyes.  In  perfect  amazement  he  shook  his  head  and  said:  "I  have 
never  seen  anything  like  that  before  in  my  life.  I  can't  understand 
it."  He  made  a  hasty  examination  which  revealed  nothing  but  normal 
conditions.  He  turned  away  and  the  nurses  looked  into  each  other's 
faces  in  astonishment.  They  too  turned  away.  She  was  taken  to  her 
room,  and  when  she  regained  consciousness  she  began  to  inquire 
as  to  why  they  had  not  operated.  The  nurses  said :  "We  do  not  know. 
The  physician  said  it  was  unnecessary."  Shortly  thereafter  the  phy- 
sician appeared  and  she  said  :  "Doctor,  what  is  the  reason  you  have 
not  performed  the  operation?"  He  said:  "Because  I  think  it  unneces- 
sary, and  I  cannot  tell  you  the  reason  why."  She  said :  "I  can.  It 
is  because  the  Lord  has  healed  me  in  answer  to  the  prayers  offered 
by  the  members  of  the  Church,"  and  she  bore  her  testimony  to  him. 

He  was  a  little  fearful  as  to  subsequent  developments  and  de- 
sired she  should  remain  there  for  two  weeks  for  safety;  but  the 
following  day  she  insisted  that  she  return  to  her  home.  To  him  she 
said :  "I  am  here  on  borrowed  money.  I  am  well.  The  Lord  has  made 
me  well,  and  I  desire  to  return  to  my  home  and  children.  If  you  do 
not  believe  I  am  well,  you  may  call  any  physician  you  desire,  or  any 
number  of  nurses,  and  make  a  thorough  examination,  and  if  you  decide 
I  am  not  thoroughly  healed  and  well,  I  shall  remain  as  long  as  you 
desire  me  to."  He  said :  "That  is  fair  enough."  They  made  a  thorough 
examination,  only  to  find  that  every  organ  of  the  body  had  resumed 
its  normal  position  and  condition,  so  to  her  he  said :  "Go  home."  Since 
that  day  she  has  enjoyed  health  that  she  never  before  enjoyed  in  her 
life.  She  looks  ten  years  younger,  has  put  on  fifteen  pounds  of  flesh 
and  looks  almost  like  a  different  being.  The  doctor  said:  "I  cannot 
account  for  it,"  but  I  know,  as  she  knows,  that  it  was  the  power  of 
the  Lord  in  answer  to  the  prayer  of  faith  that  healed  this  woman.  I 
have  heard  upon  several  occasions,  though  I  have  not  verified  this 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  MCMURRIN 


73 


statement,  that  to  this  circumstance  the  doctor  has  referred,  while 

speaking  to  some  of  his  professional  associates,  as  the  "  'Mormon' 
miracle." 

I  testify  that  the  power  of  the  Lord  is  in  this  Church,  that  he 
hears  and  answers  prayers,  that  our  Father  rules  on  high;  that  his 
Son  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  his  prophet, 
and  this  is  the  Lord's  work.  This  is  my  testimony  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  California 

Mission. ) 

I  am  glad,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  opportunity  of  at- 
tending this  conference.  My  soul  has  been  made  to  rejoice  in  listen- 
ing to  the  splendid  counsels  that  have  been  imparted,  and  in  hear- 
ing the  testimonies  that  have  been  delivered  concerning  the  won- 
derful work  of  the  Lord'.  It  falls  to  my  lot,  at  the  present  time,  to 
labor  in  the  California  mission.  California,  as  you  all  know,  is  a 
state  of  considerable  renown.  There  are  things  transpiring  there 
that  perhaps  do  not  occur  anywhere  else  in  the  world,  as  far  as  I 
know.  There  are  a  great  many  people  in  California  who  are  there 
for  pleasure,  who  have  come  from  other  sections  of  the  nation,  and 
from  other  nations,  in  order  to  enjoy  the  wonderful  climate  of 
California,  and  to  spend  the  money  that  they  gathered  together. 
It  is  a  common  thing  in  Southern  California  for  Canadian  people 
to  hold  a  reunion,  and  people  who  are  from  New  York,  and  from 
Iowa,  and  from  Illinois,  and  practically  all  of  the  other  states  of 
the  Union;  they  come  together  in  large  numbers.  It  is  astonishing 
at  times,  to  note  the  number  who  congregate  in  these  various  re- 
unions from  other  nations  and  states  in  the  United  States.  I  do 
not  know  whether  anything  of  this  character  is  found  elsewhere 
in  the  nation  or  not. 

I  think  there  is  a  general  feeling  that  the  people  of  California 
are  not  seeking  for  religion.  Nevertheless,  I  am  very  happy  to  be 
able  to  report  that  there  are  many  very  excellent  people  in  the  State, 
of  California,  and  that  many  of  them  give  the  missionaries  oppor- 
tunity to  expound  the  principles  of  the  gospel  which  they  have  been 
sent  to  teach;  and  there  are  a  few  who  are  convinced  of  the  truth 
of  that  message,  who  yield  obedience  to  the  doctrines  and  become 
identified  with  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
There  are  many  people  of  our  own  faith  who  appear  to  be  attracted 
to  that  state,  and  we  are  receiving  hundreds  of  men  and  women 
who  come  from  the  various  wards  and  stakes  here  in  Zion  to  identify 
themselves  with  the  branches  of  the  Church  that  are  located  in  Cali- 
fornia. We  have  some  very  excellent  Latter-day  Saints,  just  as  good 
as  can  be   found  in  any  other  part  of  the  Church  or   in  any 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

other  mission,  men  and  women  who  are  devoted  to  the  service  of  the 
Lord,  who  feel  that  they  are  under  obligation  to  live  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  and  to  convince  others,  by  the  example  they  set,  they 
have  indeed  received  the  truth ;  men  and  women  who  are  that 
willing  to  give  their  time  for  the  building  up  of  the  Church  and  for 
the  strengthening  of  the  organizations  that  have  been  effected  in 
various  parts  of  the  mission.  In  fact,  there  is  a  spirit,  in  connec- 
tion with  missionary  work,  which  seems  to  seize  hold  of  many 
people  who  have  been  indifferent'  to  their  religious  duties  here  in 
the  wards  at  home,  and  they  become  aroused  to  the  necessity  of  de- 
voting a  little  of  their  time  to  the  service  of  God  and  the  advance- 
ment of  his  work.  We  have  had  the  joy  of  seeing  a  good  many  who 
formerly  have  been  quite  careless  and  neglectful,  turn  their  attention 
to  the  work  of  God  and  render  special  service  in  advancing  our  Mas- 
ter's interests.  I  am  very  glad  to  be  able  to  report  that  we  have  a 
corps  of  missionaries  who  are  interested  in  preaching  the  gospel, 
and  who,  notwithstanding  they  feel  weak,  are  bearing  testimony,  to 
the  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed;  and  even  in  California,  the  power 
of  God  is  made  manifest. 

Just  a  few  weeks  ago,  a  telephone  message  was  received,  an- 
swered by  a  young  elder  of  just  a  few  months'  experience.  A  person 
desired  to  know  if  he  could  be  administered  to.  He  was  not  a 
member  of  the  Church,  but  expressed  a  belief  in  the  truths  of 
the  gospel  as  it  has  been  taught  by  the  missionaries.  He  was  informed 
that  if  he  had  faith  to  believe  that  God,  our  Father  in  heaven,  would 
hear  and  answer  the  prayers  of  his  servants,  there  would  be  no  ob- 
jection to  his  coming  to  receive  the  healing  ordinance.  He  came  into 
the  office  on  crutches,  and  two  young  boys,  in  the  fear  of  God,  an- 
nointed  him  with  holy  oil,  and  laid  their  hands  upon  him.  They 
rebuked  the  trouble  that  had  been  preying  upon  him  for  a)  long  period 
of  time,  and  when  the  ordinance  was  completed  and  one  of  those 
elders  took  his  crutches  and  offered  them  to  the  man,  he  looked  up 
into  his  face,  smiled,  and  said:  "My  brother,  you  don't  know  what 
has  taken  place.  I  am  healed!"  He  walked  from  the  building  with- 
out his  crutches;  and,  on  the  following  day  he  accompanied  the 
missionaries  on  a  ten-block  walk  to  show  them  the  residence  of  a 
person  they  were  seeking;  and  he  has  continued  free  from  the  ail- 
ment that  held  him  down  for  a  long  time. 

So  that,  God  is  in  California,  notwithstanding  its  pleasures,  and 
the  fact  that  there  are  tens  of  thousands  of  people  who  think  little 
of  him,  and  who  are  not  seeking  for  religion.  There  are  other  men 
who  love  the  Lord,  who  are  willing  to  listen  to  the  testimonies  borne 
by  his  servants,  who  hearken  to  the  doctrines  that  are  expounded, 
who  are  going  to  believe  by  the  power  of  God  and  the  Holy  Ghost 
that  they  come  in  contact  with  the  truth,  who  have  the  courage,  even 
in  pleasure-seeking  California,  to  cast  their  lot  with  the  people  of  God, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  MCMURRIN 


75 


and  to  give  of  their  time  and  their  substance  that  the  purposes  of  God 
may  be  accomplished. 

In  California,  in  this  time  of  stress,  we  have  asked  the  people  to 
think  of  the  missionaries.  I  would  like  to  say  to  the  fathers  and  mothers.., 
here  at  home  and  in  that  mission,  that  Latter-day  Saints  have 
responded  quite  liberally  and  have  contributed  of  their  means,  that 
others  who  were  in  distressed  financial  conditions  might  be  aided, 
and  possibly  prevented  from  returning  home.  I  am  glad  to  say  that 
we  have  missionaries  today  who  are  faithfully  pursuing  their  labors, 
who  have  been  preserved  in  the  mission  field  by  the  faith  and  liberality 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  in  California;  for,  in  every  confer- 
ence of  the  California  mission,  there  are  people  who  have  contributed 
of  their  substance,  that  they  might  help  the  missionaries,  that  none 
of  them  should  return  home  before  their  labors  are  completed.  Of 
course,  they  have  not  been  able  to  prevent  some  of  the  missionaries 
from  returning;  but  they  are  helping,  according  to  their  substance, 
to  provide  for  them. 

I  suppose  it  is  natural,  when  one  is  engaged  in  missionary  work, 
that  he  feels  that  the  important  thing,  as  announced  in  this  conference, 
is  the  message  that  has  been  delivered  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
in  relation  to  missionary  work.  I  hope  fathers  and  mothers  will  take 
to  their  hearts  the  message  as  it  has  fallen  from  the  lips  of  the  prophet 
of  the  Lord.  I  think  there  is  very  great  necessity  for  such  a  message. 
I  have  never  before  come  in  contact  with  a  spirit  like  the  spirit  which 
prevails  in  some  sections,  at  the  present  time — (the  spirit  of  the 
missionaries  and  some  fathers  and  mothers,  that  they  know  when 
their  sons  and  daughters  should  be  released  from  the  mission  field. 
I  have  had  considerable  experience  in  the  mission  field  and 
I  have  never  before  come  in  contact,  in  any  other  missionary 
labor,  with  a  spirit  of  this  sort.  I  know  what  my  own  feelings  were  and 
the  feelings  of  my  companions,  in  my  early  missionary  experience. 
Why,  we  would  have  died  in  the  mission  field  before  we  would  have 
suggested  to  the  mission  president  that  we  ought  to  be  released  to 
return  home.  I  myself  have  recommended  men  to  he  released  because 
of  ill  health,  when  I  have  had  fear  in  my  heart  that  they  would  lay  their 
bodies  down  in  a  foreign  land,  and  they  have  pleaded,  in  tears,  that 
they  might  be  permitted  to  remain  in  the  mission  field.  They  had  an 
absolute  feeling  of  opposition  to  such  a  release,  and  a  determination 
to  remain  and  fulfil  the  mission  to  which  they  had  been  appointed. 
I  have  had  men,  right  on  this  temple  block,  almost  command  me 
as  the  president  of  the  California  mission,  to  release  their  sons  to 
return  home.  I  have  received  letters  from  fathers,  from  various 
sections,  intimating  that  they  will  no  longer  provide  the  means  to 
sustain  their  sons  in  the  mission  field.  I  recognize  the  fact  that  we 
do  live  in  strenuous  times,  that  fathers  and  mothers  are  having  great 
difficulty  to  provide  the  necessary  means  to  meet  the  expenses  of 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tbeir  missionary  sons  and  daughters,  but  I  do  not  believe  that  it  is 
the  right  or  the  prerogative  of  any  father  to  write  to  the  mission 
president  demanding  the  release  of  his  son  or  daughter.  I  believe  the 
proper  course  to  pursue  is  to  confer  with  the  authorities  at  home, 
those  who  know  the  conditions  and  circumstances,  and  if  it  be  neces- 
sary for  them  to  be  called  from  the  missionary  field,  let  them  be 
called  because  of  recommendations  that  have  been  made  by  the  bishops, 
or  stake  presidents,  who  are  familiar  with  all  the  circumstances.  There 
is  no  desire  to  hold  men  in  the  missionary  field  to  the  injury  of  fathers 
and  mothers ;  but  there  is  a  desire,  a  strong  desire,  that  when  the  Lord 
God  Almighty  has  touched  the  souls  of  young  men,  has  made  them 
know  the  truth,  and  has  fired  them  with  a  desire  to  preach  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  they  shall  be  given  the  oppor- 
tunity, and  not  be  called  home  to  their  sorrow  and  disappointment, 
and  to  the  weakening  of  their  own  faith.  I  would  that  the  men  of 
Israel  might  sense  the  obligation  that  rests  upon  them  in  relation  to 
the  preaching  of  the  gospel.  It  is  not  only  the  call  of  the  president  of 
the  Church,  but,  as  he  quoted  from  the  Scriptures,  it  is  the  call  of 
God.  He  that  is  warned,  let  him  warn  his  neighbor.  When  I  think 
of  the  great  hosts  of  men  who  have  been  specially  ordained  as 
witnesses  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  men  of  power,  men  of  experience, 
men  of  capacity,  and  not  one  of  them  in  the  missionary  field,  I  do  not 
think  that  a  very  extravagant  statement. 

There  are  only  boys  in  the  mission  field,  boys  in  their  teens. 
You  men  of  thirty  years  of  age,  forty  years  of  age,  filled  with 
physical  power,  and  the  power  of  God,  is  there  not  responsibility 
upon  you  in  relation  to  the  preaching  of  the  gospel?  I  think  there  is, 
and  I  think  it  ought  to  be  possible,  in  the  midst  of  the  hosts  of  men 
who  have  this  experience  and  ability,  for  a  few  of  them  to  be  standing 
by  the  side  of  the  boys  and  girls  who  manifest  their  faith  and  their 
willingness  to  preach  the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer.  I  thank  God  that 
notwithstanding  their  feeling  of  weakness,  wonderful  development 
takes  place  among  these  young  men  and  women.  I  thank  God  that  the 
boys  and  girls  in  the  mission  field  have  been  made  to  know  the  truth 
of  the  gospel  just  as  thoroughly  as  their  fathers  and  mothers  know  it, 
by  the  experience  that  has  come  to  them  as  preachers  of  righteousness. 
We  ask  for  help,  I  wonder  if  there  is  any  mission  president  who 
could  say,  when  one  of  his  missionaries  found  financial  difficulty, 
that  a  bishop  has  felt  that  responsibility  was  upon  the  community 
that  he  represented,  and  that  the  people  have  been1  called  upon  to 
contribute  a  little  of  their  means,  that  their  boy  or  girl  might 
preach  the  gospel?  There  are  many  of  that  kind,  I  fear,  but  I  believe 
this  responsibility  is  upon  every  ward,  and  upon  every  stake;  and 
that,  notwithstanding  financial  stress,  there  are  means  in  the  land  to 
provide  for  missionaries,  if  the  people  have  the  disposition.    I  think  this 


ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 


77 


disposition  should  be  cultivated,  that  the  gospel  message  might  he 
carried  to  the  people,  that  repentance  may  be1  called  among  the 
people,  and  men  and  women  may  be  invited  to  the  waters  of 
baptism,  to  receive,  by  the  holy  ordinance,  the  remission  of  their 
sins,  and  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  be  brought  in  communication 
with  the  Holy  Ghost  and  receive  from  God  our  Father  a  knowledge 
of  the  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed. 

That  is  your  business  just  as  much  as  it  it  my  busi- 
ness. I  happen  to  be  in  the  mission  field  today ;  in  may  be 
your  turn  tomorrow.  All  of  us  should  be  lending  assistance, 
that  our  skirts  may  be  free  from  the  blood  of  our  fellow  men.  I  thank 
God  for  the  gospel.  I  rejoice  in  preaching  it.  I  am  glad  to  be  a 
missionary.  I  am  proud  of  my  associates.  I  am  glad  to  bring  to  fathers 
and  mothers  the  glad  news  that  their  sons  and  daughters  love  the 
truth,  and  that  they  comprehend,  measurably,  the  great  plan  of 
salvation.  I  bear  record  to  the  work  of  God,  to  the  power  of  God. 
I  bear  record  of  the  truth  of  the  promises  of  God,  in  relation  to  the 
development  of  his  purposes  and  the  triumph  of  his  work.  God  help 
us  all  to  do  this,  for  ever  and  for  ever,  and  be  found  at  the  post 
of  duty  by  night  and  by  day,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

A  duet,  entitled,  "Glory  Forever,"  was  sung  by  Emily  Grant 
Young  and  Elma  Young,  violin  obligato  by  Willard  Weihe,  with 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon  at  the  organ. 

ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 

{Assistant  Church  Historian.) 

I  esteem  it  a  very  high  privelege  to  mingle  my  voice  with  the  voices 
of  my  brethren,  in  declaring  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteous- 
ness before  the  great  congregations  of  his  people.  I  esteem  it  a 
very  great  privilege  to  be  present  at  this  conference,  the  first  I  have 
attended  since  President  Grant  succeeded  to  the  presidency  of  the 
Church.  I  rejoice  in  seeing  the  manifestation  of  the  spirit  and  power 
of  his  bigh  office  resting  upon  him,  as  I  have  witnessed  it  resting 
upon  all  of  his  predecessors,  except  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet,  whom 
I  did  not  know.  I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  progress, 
of  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  recall  fifty  years  ago  sitting  in  this  house 
listening  to  that  great  prophet  and  apostle  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,, 
Elder  Orson  Pratt.  Upon  that  occasion  he  told  of  his  conversion 
to  the  gospel  at  the  age  of  nineteen,  immediately  after  which  he- 
set  out  afoot,  on  a  journey  of  between  two  hundred  and  three  hun- 
dred miles,  that  he  might  visit  Joseph  Smith  and  gaze  upon  the- 
face  of  that  remarkable  man.  He  was  satisfied,  when  he  did  so,  that; 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


he  stood  in  the  presence  of  a  prophet  of  God,  and  he  received  the 
ministry  of  that  prophet.  He  was  called  immediately  into  the  service 
of  the  Lord  and  the  prophet  told  him  that  it  was  his  destiny  to  be  a 
preacher  of  the  gospel;  that  the  time  should  come- — this  was  only 
five  months  after  the  organization  of  the  church,  in  1830 — when 
twelve  apostles  should  be  chosen  such  as  there  had  been  in  the 
days  of  Christ,  and  that  he  should  be  one  of  them.  This  astonished 
Elder  Pratt,  beyond  measure,  but  he  lived  to  realize  the  fulfilment 
of  that  prophecy,  within  five  years,  in  1835,  when  the  apostles' 
quorum  was  organized.  I  recall  upon  the  occasion  of  this  wonderful 
discourse  that  Elder  Pratt  expressed  his  happiness  and  joy  in  the 
great  progress  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  had  made  up  to  that  time. 
He  foretold,  in  quoting  from  the  scriptures,  from  the  prophets  and 
from  the  Psalms,  the  time  when  the  fulness  of  times  of  the  gentiles 
should  come  in.  He  still  declared,  after  preaching  for  forty  years,  ever . 
since  the  organization  of  the  Church,  that  the  time  was  coming 
and  should  be  fulfilled  within  the  generation  in  which  the  Church 
was  organized.  He  did  not  pretend  to  say  just  how  soon  it  should 
be  fulfilled,  but  he  said :  "Forty  years  have  passed  since  we  com- 
menced to  declare  that  this  time  was  approaching.  I  do  not  know  that 
I  shall  live  to  see  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophecy  concerning  it,  when 
the  ambassadors  of  the  Church,  the  elders,  shall  go1  forth,  not  so 
particularly  to  the  gentiles,  but  shall  turn  from  therm  and  go  forth 
particularly  to  declare  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  the  Jews  and  to 
the  descendants  of  Jacob,  others  of  the  house  of  Israel.  That  time 
is  coming,  he  said,  when  there  shall  come  forth  from  God  a  direct 
commandment  to  His  servants  that  they  should  carry  this  message  to 
the  house  of  Israel,  and,  that  they  should  go  swiftly.  They  should 
be  welcome  when  they  then  go  in  their  ministry.  He  said  that 
hundreds  would  receive  them,  and  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands 
would  welcome  them  for  they  should  go  in  power:  "In  the  day  of 
my  power,  saith  the  Lord,  my  people  shall  welcome  me."  He 
pointed  to  the  young  men  who  were  assembled  in  the  congregation. 
I  happened  to  be  one  of  them,  and  it  seemed  to  me  that  he  was 
pointing  at  me.  Anyway,  I  was  thrilled  to  the  marrow  of  my  bones, 
for  he  said :  "You  young  men,  who  are  sitting  before  me,  will  see  the 
fulfilment  of  the  times  of  the  gentiles,  when  this  message  shall 
be  taken  to  all  the  house  of  Israel.  The  responsibility  of  carrying  it 
rests  upon  you,  and  God  will  require  it  at  your  hands."  A  year 
after  that,  very  much  to  my  surprise,  I  was  called  to  go  on  a  mis- 
sion. I  was  but  a  boy,  and  I  desired  to  go  to  college  instead;  but 
my  father  said  he  could  not  send  me  to  college,  and  proposed  that  I 
should  go  on  a  mission.  I  said:  "Very  well,  I  will  go,  get  through 
with  my  mission,  come  home  and  go  to  college  on  my  own  account." 
He  placed  his  hands  on  my  shoulders  and  said:  "You  will  never 
get  through  going  on  a  mission,  not  as  long  as  you  are  a  Latter- 


£L££tf  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS    .  79 

day  Saint."  That  seemed  a  hard  saying.  Instead  of  then  giving  me 
two  or  three  hours'  instruction  he  said :  "Get  the  spirit  of  your 
mission.  Don't  know  too  much  but  believe  all  you  can.  I  guess  I 
needed  that.  I  had  not  been  in  my  field  of  labor,  in  old  England, 
more  than  a  few  weeks  when  I  obtained  the  spirit  of  my  mission ; 
then  I  understood  what  my  father  meant,  and  I  declare  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  froml  the  moment  I  received  the  testimony 
of  my  mission,  of  my  calling  in  the  priesthood,  and  of  my  right  to 
speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  to  my  fellow  creatures,  it  has  been 
inconceivable  down  to  the  present  moment  when  I  should  not  be 
a  missionary— in  one  fashion  or  another.  I  believe  I  have  been, 
sometimes  not  very  useful,  but  at  other  times  perhaps  more  so, 
in  different  ways  engaged  in  promulgating  this  work  now  for  fifty 
years,  and  I  thank  God  for  it  with  all  my  soul,  that  I  have  been, 
in  His  mercy  and  providence,  thought  fit  to  perform  some  part 
in  carrying  on  this  great  wprk. 

I  rejoice  in  the  greatness  of  this  work,  in  the  prosperity  of 
this  people,  in  the  approach  of  that  condition  of  power  that  its  mes- 
sage w'l!  be  welcome  throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  earth, 
when  it  shall  be  carried  as  it  has  never  been  carried  before,  when  it 
shall  be  taken  on  swift  wings,  through  the  clouds,  on  the  wings  of 
the  wind.  I  was  telling  a  Catholic  priest  the  other  day  that  some  of 
those  angels  the  Apostle  John  saw  flying  in  the  midst  of  heaven, 
did  not  have  feathers;  but  they  were  in  flying  machines,  and  that  we 
Latter-day  Saints  expected  to  carry  the  gospel  like  the  angels  sung 
of  by  the  prophets  of  old,  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  peo- 
ple, flying  with  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  to  them  that  dwell 
upon  the  earth.  I  have  seen  that  partly  fulfilled  already  in  watch- 
ing President  George  Albert  Smith  and  his  son  soar  up  from  the 
Hangar  in  Brussels  and  fly  away  to  London  in  an  aeroplane — angels, 
ambassadors  of  the  Lord,  having  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  preach 
to  them  that  dwell  in  Great  Britain.  We  will  send  many  of  our 
missionaries  that  way,  in  the  time  of  many  of  you,  young  men. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  testimony  the.  Lord 
has  given  me.  I  know  that  his  power,  that  his  Priesthood  is  upon 
the  earth  and  that  we  who  bear  it  have  a  message  that  mankind 
stands  in  dire  need  of.  There  is  no  salvation  outside  of  the  ministry 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  children  of  men,  and  no  other 
people  possess  it,  but  this  people,  to  whom  it  was  given  through 
the  ministry  of  Joseph  Smith  the  prophet. 

May  God  help  us  to  be  worthy  and  stand  firmly,  and  assist 
in  promulgating  the  truth,  to  the  salvation  of  our  fellow  creatures, 
is  my  humble  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

When  I  look  out  over  this  vast  congregation  of  men  and  women,I 
am  deeply  impressed  with  the  benefits,  as  well  as  the  obligations,  that 
come  to  us  by  reason  of  that  wonderful  association  which  we  have  with 
one  another.  I  am  also  led  to  reflect  that  with  every  association  that 
we  form  thene  will  come  certain  obligations  and  we  may  derive  certain 
benefits.  When  our  father  Adam  was  placed  in  the  garden  of  Eden,  he 
was  there  alone.  He  formed  no  association  with  other  men,  for  there 
were  none,  but  he  stood  alone.  Under  conditions  of  that  kind,  isolated 
as  he  was ,  it  became  his  solemn  duty  to  make  of  himself  a  splendid  and 
suitable  companion.  This  everyone  can  do  when  he  becomes  isolated, 
by  the  development  of  holy  meditation,  by  keeping  himself  clean  and 
unspotted  from  sin,  by  being  worthy,  by  taking  proper  care  of  him- 
self, both  bodily  and  spiritually.  But  the  Lord  saw  that  it  was  not 
good  for  man  to  be  alone  and  he  gave  Eve  unto  Adam  to  be  his 
wife,  and  thus  a  new  association  was  formed,  and  with  that  association 
came  additional  benefits  and  likewise  additional  obligations,  the  obliga- 
tion of  husband  to  wife  and  wife  to  husband.  When  children  came, 
a  new  and  enlarged  association  was  formed  and  with  it  came  the 
additional  benefits  of  the  family  organization,  and  also  the  obligation 
of  father  and  mother  to  their  children  and  the  obligations  of  the 
children  to  their  father  and  to  their  mother.  It  is  then  incumlbent  upon 
all  who  form  this  family  association  that  they  shall  discharge  with 
fidelity  the  obligations  resting  upon  them  in  order  that  they  may 
receive  the  benefits  that  come  by  reason  of  it. 

So  it  is  with  every  association  that  we  form  and  there  are  many  of 
them.  There  are  business  associations,  co-partnerships,  joint  stock  in- 
stitutions, and  whenever  such  associations  are  formed  they  likewise 
have  their  obligations  and  benefits,  and  it  becomes  incumbent  upon 
all  to  discharge,  with  fidelity  and  with  honor,  those  obligations  and 
thereby  reap  the  benefits.  Human  beings,  essentially  social  in  their 
nature,  continue  to  enlarge  the  scope  of  their  association  and  form 
themselves  into  civil  governments.  All  nations,  kindreds,  tongues  and 
peoples  together  with  their  subdivisions  into  states,  counties,  municipali- 
ties constitute  such  associations,  some  better  than  others,  because  they 
are  better  governed  or  organized  under  better  laws  than  others,  but 
responsibilities  and  obligations  come  to  each  member  of  such  asso- 
ciation commensurate  with  the  amount  of  power  or  influence  that 
the  individual  member  of  that  association  exercises  and  can  or  is 
permitted  to  exercise  for  the  benefit  of  those  with  whom  he  is  associated. 

In  a  despotism,  an  absolute  monarchy,  where  the  king  rules,  and 
the  people  only  submit,  great  is  the  obligation  of  the  king,  but  the 
individual  citizen's  obligation  is  correspondingly  less.  In  our  own  gov- 
ernment, where  the  people  rule,  each  individual  citizen  is  a  ruler  in  the 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


81 


.  nation  and  great  is  his  responsibility ;  great  are  the  obligations  that 
rest  upon  him  by  reason  of  that  citizenship,  for  he  himself  is  a 
ruler,  a  sovereign,  and  helps  to  form  and  fashion  the  government 
of  which  he  is  one  of  its  rulers.  If  we  have  good  government  it  is 
because  the  individual  citizens  are  good.  If  we  have  a  bad  government 
it  is  because  the  individual  citizens  are  bad.  That  applies  not  only 
to  the  nation  at  large,  but  to  the  state,  to  the  county  and  to  the  city. 

In  this  great  republic,  where  all  just  powers  are  derived  from  the 
consent  of  the  governed,  how  great  is  the  responsibility  of  the 
individual  citizen.  How  we  ought  to  discharge,  with  fidelity,  the 
obligations  incumbent  upon  us  as  citizens!  'No  citizen  of  this  re- 
public has  the  right  to  find  fault  with  his  government,  unless  he  has 
exercized  his  power  and  his  rights  as  one  of  those  citizens,  endeavor- 
ing to  make  the  government  what  it  ought  to  be.  No  citizen  who 
has  not  exercised  this  power  has  the  right  to  blame  the  sheriff  or 
the  mayor  or  the  governor  or  any  other  officer  of  the  state  if, 
perchance,  the  laws  of  his  state  are  not  being  enforced  within  the 
state  or  the  county  or  the  city  in  which  he  lives,  for  it  is  his  own 
fault  and  he  can  blame  no  other ;  but  when  he  has  done  his  part,  then 
he  can  be  justified,  and  not  otherwise. 

What  a  wonderful  privilege  it  is  to'  be  a  citizen  of  a  republic  where 
every  citizen  has  an  equal  right.  He  should  then  exercise  the  same 
for  the  welfare  and  exaltation  of  the  people.  "Righteousness  exalteth 
a  nation,  but  sin  is  a  reproach  to  any  people."  Sin  should  not  be 
permitted  to  go  rampant  when  it  is  a  violation  of  law,  and  every 
good  citizen  will  see  that  he  does  his  part  to  have  wholesome  laws 
passed,  and  that  they  are  executed  and  administered  as  they  should 
be,  in  the  spirit  of  right  and  in  opposition  to  wrong.  When  we 
read  in  our  newspaper  files  of  the  gross  transgression  of  law  all  over 
the  land,  the  people  violating  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution, 
which  we  believe  has  been  inspired  of  God,  how  our  hearts  must  be 
filled  with  indignation  against  this  wanton  violation  of  law.  When  we 
see  such  wholesome  legislation,  as  the  law  prohibiting  the  sale  and 
manufacture  of  intoxicating  liquor,,  wantonly  being  violated,  and 
how  many  officers  there  are  who  perhaps  are  not  in  sympathy  with  the 
law  or,  what  is  worse,  corrupted  by  the  bribes  of  the  law  breakers, 
wink  at  such  violations,  how  humiliated  we  must  feel  when  we  realize 
that  these  are  the  men  whom  we  have  chosen  to  execute  the  laws, 
and  we  are  therefore  ourselves  to  blame.  Indifference  to  politics, 
neglect  to  attend  primaries,  apathy  in  matters  of  such  vital  im- 
portance as  the  government  for  which  we  are  directly  responsible, 
will  not  exonerate  us  from  this  blame. 

There  is  another  association  to  which  I  desire  to  call  your 
Mention,  a  still  grander  and  greater  one  than  those  which  form 
the  nations  of  the  earth.  It  is  all-embracing  in  its  scope.  It  is 
the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God;  and  in  looking  out  upon  this 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


congregation,  made  up  of  men  and  women  coming  from  every  nation 
andf  r  heaven,  formed  under  a  supreme  law,  the  perfect  law  of  liberty, 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  designed  to  exalt  the  children 
of  God,  to  liberate  them  from  the  bondage  of  sin,  governed  by  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  only  plan  by  which  men  and 
women  can  be  brought  in  harmony  with  the  will  of  their  Creator, 
Low  my  heart  thrills  with  joy  and  my  bosom  swells  with  pride 
to  feel  that  I  am  a  member  of  it.  Then  I  think  of  the  obligations; 
and  Oh,  how  great  the  benefits !  Our  obligations  to  God ;  the  Giver 
of  all  good,  a  life  of  devotion  and  obedience  to  his  law;  our 
obligations  to  one  another  as  members  of  this  great  association; 
a  life  of  honesty  and  integrity,  of  virtue,  of  brotherly  love;  our 
obligation  to  ourselves,  to  keep  ourselves  clean  and  unspotted  from  the 
sins  of  the  world.  In  short,  the  obligations  of  this  Association  are  so 
all-embracing  that  they  include  within  them  all  the  obligations  of 
every  proper  association  which  we  may  form,  and  preclude  our  mem- 
bership in  any  other. 

Those  who  faithfully  discharge  the  obligation  of  this  association 
will  incidentally  fulfil  those  of  all  the  rest,  the  obligations  of  husbands 
and'  wives,  of  parents,  and  children,  business  obligations,  and  the 
obligations  of  citizenship.  Unfaithful  husbands  and'  wives  are  not  good 
members  of  the  Church.  Parents  who  fail  to  teach  their  children, 
both  by  precept  ,  and  example,  are  not  good  members.  Men  and 
women  who  violate  the  laws  of  their  country,  state  and  city,  and 
especially  officers  who  wink  at  such  violation,  or  who  conspire  or 
join  in  their  violation  are  not  only  not  good  citizens,  but  they  are  like- 
wise not  good  Latter-day  Saints.  Not  only  is  it  an  obligation  to  lead'  a 
clean  and  virtuous  life,  an  honest  and  moral  life  in  our  association 
as  members  of  the  Church,  but  also  in  every  other  association.  No 
man  is  a  good  citizen  if  he  leads  an  immoral  life.  No  officer  is 
a  good  citizen  who  winks  at  and  condones  the  violations  of  law. 
Such  men  may  be  found  who  will  cry  themselves  hoarse  in  lauding 
the  "Stars  and  Stripes,"  and  prate  about  the  Constitution  and  the 
principles  of  human  liberty,  and  are  frequently  found  at  the  primaries 
and  conventions  seeking  nominations  to  public  office,  but  if  they 
are  unclean  they  are  not  good  citizens.  "When  the  wicked  rule  the 
people  mourn."  Hence  the  obligation  to  choose  good  men  and  wise 
men  for  places  of  public  trust 

Many  and  great  are  the  blessings  to  be  derived  from  our  associa- 
tion in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  but  they  may 
only  be  realized  when  we  fulfil  the  obligations  in  connection  there- 
with, the  obligations  of  faith  in  God  and  repentance  from  sin,  the 
works  of  obedience  to  the  law  of  the  gospel.  Then  shall  we  be  cleansed 
from  sin  in  the  blood  of  the  Lamb  of  God,  then  shall  we  be  enlightened 
by  his  Holy  Spirit,  then  shall  we  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  God  and 
good  works  day  by  day,  and  finally  receive  the  crown  of  life  which 
the  Lord  has  promised  to  them  that  love  him,  even  "Eternal  Life," 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


83 


God's  greatest  gift  to  his  faithful  sons  and  daughters.  May  they  all 
be  yours,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

During  our  two  day's  conference  I  have  listened  with  a  great 
deal  of  interest  to  what  our  brethren  have  said  to  us.  My  mind  has 
been  very  active  during  the  conference,  and  I  have  thought  about  a 
great  many  wonderful  things,  to  me,  that  might  sound  very  flat  to 
you ;  but  for  some  reason,  this  afternoon,  I  feel  like  a  fellow  who 
had  run  entirely  out  of  material,  having  exhausted  the  material  that 
I  had,  in  thought.  I  think  of  what  Elbert  Hubbard  said.  It  struck  me 
rather  strangely  the  other  day.  He  said :  "If  you  are  going  to  reform 
the  world  you  had  better  begin  with  yourself,  and  there  will  be  one 
rogue  less  in  the  world."  Of  course,  I  did  not  want  to  apply  that  to 
myself,  but  I  would  not  object  to  japplying  it  to  you. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  shall  address  you  for  a  short  period 
of  time,  only  a  few  minutes — although  it  seems  a  long  time  to  you, 
and  does  to  ffie;  it  certainly  will  before  I  get  through.    My  voice  has 
been  heard  among  this  people  for  nearly  thirty  years.  I  think  I  have 
been  in  the  ministry  here  at  home  for  nearly  that  length  of  time.  I 
would  not  give  my  experience  and  the  association  I  have  had  with 
the  brethren  of  the  authorities  for  all  the  riches  in  the  world.  I  hope, 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  during  these  thirty  years,  I'  have  created  an 
impression  in  your  minds — at,  least  I  have  tried  to  do  that — that  I  am 
trying  to  be  honest.  I  am  trying  to  be  truthful.  I  am  trying  to  be 
sincere  and  loyal  and  unafraid.  There  is  nothing  that  I  desire  more, 
outside  of  the  Spirit  of  God  and  the  honoring  of  the  Priesthood  and 
the  sustaining  of  this  work,  than  to  have  an  honest  mind.  It  seems  to 
me  during  the  past  few  years  that  the  minds  of  many  are  warped. 
We  do  not  think  honest;  we  do  not  hear  straight,  nor  do'  we  see 
straight.  I  am  sure,  from  the  experience  I  have  had  in  the  Church, 
that  the  Lord  can  do  very  little  for  a  man  who  persists  in  being 
dishonest  and  untruthful;  and,  of  course,  it  goes  without  saying  that 
no  man  or  woman  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  can  be  immoral, 
and  have  the  Spirit  of  God  to  be  with  them.    I  read  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  the  message  that  was  given  to  the  elders  in  early  days. 
The  Lord  said :    "But  with  some  I  am  not  well  pleased."    Now,  what 
was  their  trouble?  "Because  they  will  not  open  their  mouths  but  hide 
the  talent  which  I  have  given  unto  them,  because  of  the  fear  of  man. 
Woe  unto  such,  for  mine  anger  is  kindled  against  them,  and  it  shall 
come  to  pass  if  they  are  not  more  faithful  unto  me  it  shall  be  taken 
away  even  that  which  they  have."    I  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that,  during  the  past  thirty  years  I  may  have  said  some  foolish  things. 
I  have,  in  my  own  way,  given  the  people  a  good  deal  of  chaff  to  get 
them  to  take  a  little  wheat,  but  some  of  them  haven't  got  sense  enough 
to  pick  the  wheat  out  from  the  chaff.  If  a  man  in  this  Church  ever  does 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


say  a  foolish  thing,  they  will  remember  it  to  the  very  day  of  their 
death ;  and  it  is  the  only  thing  some  of  them  do  remember.  I  think 
they  do  mighty  well  to  remember  that.  . 

I  find  out  some  things  by  reading  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants — 
which,  by  the  way,  I  do  read.  I  am  familiar  with  the  Bible,  a  little, 
•and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price.  I  have  wished,  sometimes,  that  there  would  be  a  big 
fire  and  burn  all  the  rest  of  the  books  so  that  we  would  read  these 
books  more.  Sometimes  I  feel  that  a  man  ought  to  be  imprisoned  for 
writing  any  more  books ;  because  I  got  my  experience  mostly  by 
reading  the  books  which  contain  the  revelations  of  the  Lord.  I  got 
my  first  experience  in  the  Southern  states  in  two  years,  and  I  read  the 
Bible;  I  read  the  Book  of  Mormon;  and  I  read  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  I  don't  believe  the  man  lives, 
unless  God  inspires  him,  who  can  ever  breathe  into  a  book  what  you 
can  get  out  of  the  Bible,  Book  of  Mormon,  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
£nd'  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  That  is  my  testimony.  Joseph  Smith  said 
that  a  man  will  live  nearer  to  the  gospel  of  Christ  reading  the  Book 
of  Mormon  than  any  other  book  that  has  ever  been  written.  I  want 
to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  according  to  my  judgment  and 
experience — I  am  old  enough  to  know  a  few  things,  and  I  am  old 
enough  to  remember  some  things — some  of  the  greatest  inspired  men 
we  have  ever  had  in  the  history  of  this  Church  have  been  men  who 
have  read  the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Morroon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  Now,  brethren,  I  do  not  want  to  say 
anything  to  hurt  anyone's  feelings  about  books  that  are  written.  I 
read  the  Bible  through  once,  and  when  I  got  through  I  said :  "I  will 
never  tackle  it  again  in  the  flesh ;"  but  I  have  read  in  it,  and  I  am 
acquainted  with  it,  and  I  have  marked  it.  I  would  not  give  my  Bible 
for  all  the  Bibles  in  the  world,  because  it  is  the  only  Bible  I  can  find 
anything  in. 

The  first  council  ordained  one  thousand  and  forty  seventies  last 
year.  The  Lord  has  said  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants :  "There  are 
many  called  and  few  are  chosen."  As  I  said,  there  were  one  thousand 
and  forty  seventies  ordained  last  year;  and  why  are  they  not  chosen? 
The  Lord  gives  us  the  answer  clear  and  plain.  I  am  glad  he  talks 
plainly.  Why  are  they  not  chosen?  "Because  their  hearts  are  so  much 
set  upon  the  things  of  the  world,  and  they  aspire  to  the  honors  of 
men."  They  would  break  their  blamed  necks  to  get  an  office  in  the 
state  or  in  the  nation.  I  haven't  heard  of  anyone  breaking  his  neck 
to  go  on  a  mission — not  lately.  Now  brethren,  I  know  what  the  trouble 
is.  You  remember  not  very  long  ago  that  Brother  Hyrum  M.  Smith, 
when  he  presided  over  the  European  mission,  sent  word  to  us  and  gave 
the  sign  of  distress,  like  all  these  mission  presidents  are  doing  now. 
He  wanted  one  hundred  capable,  efficient,  competent  men — just  what 
they  need  in  every  mission  in  the  world.  So  the  First  Council  started 
out  to  get  them.  We  made  a  thorough  canvas,  and  we  never  dreamed 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


85 


but  what  we  could  get  one  hundred  out  of  the  councils  of  quorums, 
the  presidents  of  seventies,  without  any  trouble  at  all.  We  interviewed 
those  seventies  by  the  hundreds,  personally  interviewed  them,  looked 
them  in  the  face,  and  we  never  found  one  single  president  that  was 
not  willing  to  go,  not  one  that  I  remember,  but  when  we  looked  into 
their  financial  affairs  they  could  not  go.  They  seemed  to  be  alright 
spiritually,  but  it  was  their  financial  troubles.  That  is  the  trouble  now. 

I  believe  in  all  that  President  Grant  said.  I  preached  it  years 
ago,  after  I  went  broke,  with  just  as  much  vehemence  as  he  ever 
did  in  his  life.  I  preached  until  I  was  almost  exhausted.  I  remember 
a  sermon.  I  think  it  was  a  very  wonderful  discourse,  too.  I  was  up 
in  Smithfield  at  a  conference,  and  I  preached  to  the  people  on  the 
subject  of  debt.  I  had  just  been  through  the  mill  of  the  gods,  and 
they  ground  me  to  powder.  I  went  "over  the  hill  to  the  poor  house," 
and  I  think  I  was  able  to  tell  them  a  pathetic  story;  they  sold 
me  out,  just  like  they  would  sell  cattle;  and  yet  I  was  in  the  mission- 
ary field  at  that.  I  told  my  story,  and  told  it  very  plaintively;  and 
there  was  a  salesman  at  this  meeting.  I  saw  him  the  other  day  at  one 
of  our  conference  meetings.  That  made  me  think  of  it.  He  was  a 
salesman  of  the  Co-operative  Wagon  and  Machine  Company.  After 
I  preached  my  discourse  I  met  this  man  and  he  said:  "Brother 
Kimball,  that  is  the  best  sermon  I  ever  heard.  I  never  sold  as  many 
implements  in  my  life  as  I  did  after  you  preached  that  sermon." 
After  I  had  warned  the  people  and  forewarned  them,  that  to  be  in 
debt  was  to  be  in  hell — I  don't  know  anything  about  hell,  but  that 
is  the  worst  hell  I  have  ever  been  in — to  be  in  debt.  I  can  tell  you 
how  you  can  keep  out  of  debt;  but  I  can't  tell  you  how  to  get  out 
after  you  get  in.  I  had  a  man  come  to  me  the  other  day  who  wanted 
me  to  indorse  his  note.  I  had  sworn,  almost  on  an  oath,  I  would 
never  sign  another  note,  not  even  for  my  wife.  But  he  looked  at  me 
so  pitifully,  and  was  in  such  dire  distress,  and  I  had  so  much  confi- 
dence in  him,  that  I  told  him  I  would  sign  it,  although  I  was  quite 
sure  I  could  not  pay  it  if  he  did  not.  He  applied  at  one  of  our  banks. 
They  did  not  know  me,  for  which  I  was  very  thankful.  I  went  to 
the  bank  and  looked  the  man  in  the  face.  He  said:  "Mr.  Kimball, 
haven't  you  got  any  collaterals?"  I  said:  "Collaterals — I  should  say 
not !  I  haven't  got  a  collateral  of  any  kind."  He  said,  "How  do  you 
expect  me  to  take  your  indorsement?"  I  replied,  "On  my  looks  and 
general  character.  That  is  all  I  have  got."  And  he  turned  me  down ; 
and  I  have  been  tickled  to  death  ever  since.  That  is  the  way  to  keep  out 
of  debt. 

I  thought  I  would  like  to  read  some  scripture  as  a  closing  of 
my  remarks :  I  am  sure  I  can  make  it  in  two  minutes.  It  is  something 
my  father  read,  in  reading  from  his  old  Book  of  Mormon,  that  was 
published  or  printed  in  1830.  I  found  this  page  worn  almost  out,  and 
I  wondered  what  it  was.  This  is  what  I  found.  It  was  just  such  a 
■condition  that  we  are  now  in.  They  had  had  war,  and  they  had  had 
famine,  and  then  they  went  to  the  prophet  and  appealed  to  the  Lord, 
so  that  the  famine  was  withdrawn,  and  it  says:    "That  ended  the 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

eighty  and  fifth  year."  In  thirteen  years  that  people  fell  down  two 
or  three  times,  and  yet  they  were  God's  people.  This  is  what  he  said. 
I  want  to  read  it  to  you  and  impress  you,  if  I  can,  with  this  one 
thought :  "And  thus  we  can  behold  how  false  and  also  the  unsteadiness 
of  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men;  yea,  we  can  see  the  Lord  in  his 
great  infinite  goodness  doth  bless  and  prosper  those  who  put  their 
trust  in  him.  Yea,  and  we  may  see  at  the  very  time  when  he  doth 
prosper  his  people,  yea,  in  the  increase  of  their  fields,  their  flocks 
and  their  herds,  and  in  gold,  and  in  silver,  and  in  all  manner  of 
precious  things  of  every  kind  and  art;  sparing  their  lives,  and  deliver- 
ing them  out  of  the  hands  of  their  enemies;  softening  the  hearts 
of  their  enemies  that  they  should  not  declare  wars  against  them; 
yea,  and  in  fine,  doing  all  things  for  the  welfare  and  happiness  of  his 
people;  yea,  then  is  the  time," — Now  that  strikes  me  as  a  strange 
thing.  After  God  has  done  all  that  for  his  children,  and  it  could  not 
be  written  any  better  if  it  was  written  of  this  people,  how  God  had 
blessed  them — "then  is  the  time  that  they  do  harden  their  hearts,  and 
do  forget  the  Lord  their  God  and  do  trample  under  their  feet  the  Holy 
One — yea,  and  this  because  of  their  ease,  and  their  exceedingly  great 
prosperity. 

"And  thus  we  see  that  except  the  Lord  doth  chasten  his  people 
with  many  afflictions,  yea,  except  he  doth  visit  them  with  death  and 
with  terror  and  with  famine  and  with  all  manner  of  pestilence,  they 
will  not  remember  him." 

We  are  just  like  all  other  children  of  God,  in  all  other  dispensa- 
tions. Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  we  are  a  chosen  people,  for  a 
special  purpose,  our  hearts  have  been  hardened  and  we  have  forgotten 
our  God — some  of  us.  Now,  brethren,  I  think  you1  will  have  no 
trouble  in  getting  out  of  debt.  At  least  you  can  get  out  as  well  as  I 
have. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  glad;  I  thank  my  God  that  he 
chastened  mle.  I  thank  God  that  I  have  had  the  love  and  affection 
of  my  brethren.  I  thank  God  that  I  am  alive.  I  know  the  gospel  is 
true.  I  know  it  because  I  learned  it  through  adversity  and  through 
suffering  and  through  hardships.  I  never  learned  it  because  I  w]as 
Heber  C.  Kimball's  son,  because  I  was  the  son  of  a  prophet.  I  learned 
it  just  as  he  learned  it.  I  may  not  have  paid  as  big  a  price  as  my 
f|ather  did,  but  I  paid  for  pretty  nearly  everything  I  have.  I  paid  well 
for  it,  but  I  am  satisfied.  I  sustain  the  brethren  of  the  authorities, 
and  I  uphold  their  hands.  I  never  felt  better  in  all  my  ministry  in  this 
Church  than  I  do  today.  I  thank  God  the  sun  shines.  I  thank  God  the 
grass  is  green,  and  the  water  runs  down  hill;  as  it  did  not  for  a  long 
while.  Now  the  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,"  and 
Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock,  a.  m.,  Sunday,  October  9. 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  C.  Alvin  Orme,  President 
of  the  Tooele  stake  of  Zion. 


THIRD  DAY 


On  Sunday  morning,  October  9,  at  10  o'clock,  the  Conference 
continued,  the  Tabernacle  being  filled  to  its  full  capacity,  every  seat 
and  isle  being  occupied,  and  hundreds  were  standing  by  the  doors; 
besides,  there  were  crowded  overflow  meetings  at  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  the  Bureau  of  Information.    President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William  N.  Patten,  President  of 
the  Lost  River  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn,  "When  dark  and  drear  the  skies 
appear,"  words  by  Emily  Hill  Woodmansee,  and  music  by  Pro- 
fessor Joseph  J.  Daynes,  former  Tabernacle  organist. 

i 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  really  believe  that  this  is  the  largest  gathering  I  have  ever  seen 
in  this  Tabernacle  of  a  Sunday  morning.  I  am  told  that  the  Assembly 
Hall  is  full  and  running  over,  and  that  there  are  several  hundred  people 
still  standing  up.  It  will  therefore  be  necessary  to  hold  an  overflow 
meeting. 

In  announcing  the  hymn,  "When  dark  and  drear  the  skies  ap- 
pear," President  Grant  remarked:  The  words  of  this  very  splendid 
hymn  are  by  Sister  Emily  Hill  Woodmansee,  the  music  by  our  late  or- 
-ganist,  Joseph  J.  Daynes.  No  person  that  I  ever  knew,  lived  more  per- 
fectly in  keeping  with  these  beautiful  words  than  the  good  sister  who 
wrote  them.  She  came  to  this  country,,  dragging  a  hand  cart  all  the  way 
from  the  Missouri  River  to  the  Salt  Lake  Valley.  She  lived  and  died 
one  of  the  true  and  faithful  Latter-day  Saints.  She  has  written  some  of 
the  most  inspiring  of  the  many  inspiring  hymns  that  we  have  in  our 
hymn  book. 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

(Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church) 

Well  may  we  sing  "Providence  is  over  all."  Whto  is  there 
that  can  doubt  that  the  hand  of  Providence  governs  and  directs 
in  the  affairs  of  this  great  Nation  of  which  we  form  a  part?  Is 
there  any  one  of  us  who  can  doubt,  that  the  hand  of  the  Lord  is 
over  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  that  they  all  are  his  children, 
and  that  he  has  care  for  them  all?  Is  there  any  one  of  us  who 
has  any  doubt,  looking  at  this  vast  congregation,  that  the  Lord  is  with 
us?  The  incentive,  the  motive,  that  brings  these  semi-annual  gath- 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


erings,  is  a  testimony,  an  evidence  to  us  that  the  Lord  is  still 
with  his  people.  It  has  been  remarked  during  this  conference  that 
there  never  was  a  time  when  there  was  more  evidence  of  the  Spirit 
cf  the  Lord  in  the  hearts  of  the  people  in  respect  to  matters  spirit- 
ual— temple  work,  priesthood  work,  the  desire  to  perform  the  la- 
bors that  the  priesthood  are  called  upon  to  perform — than  there  is 
now  among  the  people.  The  Lord  is  operating  through  his  Spirit  in 
the  hearts  of  this  body  of  priesthood,  the  priesthood  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  in  a  most  marvelous  manner. 
Truly,  I  thought,  as  I  came  into  this  building  this  morning:  "This 
is  a  marvelous  work."  It  is  a  wonder  to  me  to  see  this  large  body 
of  men ;  for,  where  we  go  in  Church  association,  and  congregations 
generally,  outside  of  this  Church,  the  great  majority,  so  far  as  I 
have  been  able  to  observe,  are  women  who  take  a  most  active  part— 
and  the  Lord  blesses  them  for  doing  it— but  here  we  have  not  only 
our  sisters,  who  take  a  most  wonderful  and  splendid  part  in  the  ac- 
tivities of  the  Church,  but  we  have  such  a  crowd  of  men  here,  good 
men,  able  men,  men  who  want  to  do  right,  men  who  are  doing 
right,  clean  men,  and  trying  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord.  It  is  wonderful  to  me.  How  does  it  all  come  about?  Whose 
power  is  it  that  does  this,  that  accomplishes  this?  Is  it  the  power 
of  man?  No,  it  is  the  power  of  the  Almighty  God,  the  power  that 
resides  in  the  priesthood  of  the  Church.  The  power  of  the  Lord  has 
truly  always  been  over  the  nation.  The  nations  are  in  his  hands. 
When  he  undertakes  to  break  down  this  power  or  the  other,  it  is 
easy  for  him  to  do  it'.  When  he  with-draws  his  spirit  from  the  child- 
ren of  men  they  are  left  to  themselves,  and  we  see  it.  We  can  go 
through  history  and  see  instances,  repeatedly,  where  the  people  have 
been  left  to  themselves,  through  their  wickedness,  and  they  have 
gone  into  unbelief  and  darkness,  and  have  dwindled  away.  He  says 
in  the  revelations,  in  the  last  days,  that  he  would  finally  withdraw 
his  spirit  from  the  people  of  the  world  if  they  did  not  repent  and 
follow  him.  And  woe  be  unto  the  people  when  that  Spirit,  which 
overrules  for  good,  has  been  withdrawn  from  them,  for  that  is  the 
life-giving  power.  It  is  that  Spirit  that  formed  this  government  and 
gave  us  our  Constitution.  The  Lord  raised  up  wise  men,  he  said, 
wise  men  for  that  very  purpose.  It  was  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  mak- 
ing for  liberty,  that  operated  in  the  heart  of  a  Martin  Luther,  of  an 
Oliver  Cromwell,  and  men  of  that  character,  who  received  a  great 
portion  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  direct  them  in  their  efforts ;  and 
Providence  was  over  all. 

The  Lord  has  operated  through  them  but  in  this  body  of  priest- 
hood he  has  told  us  that  he  would  give  unto  us  more  power,  the 
power  of  Priesthood,  more  power  than  he  had  given  to  men  who  are 
not  ordained  to  this  Priesthood.  What  is  this  power,  what  is  this  in- 
fluence that  causes  them  to  operate  in  their  activities  in  the  Church 


ELDER  CHARLES  IV.  NIB  LEY 


89 


in  the  way  that  they  do,  so  that  for  one  thing  they  have  not  a  beg- 
gar— not  a  beggar  in  all  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  so  far  as  we  know,  in  any  part  of  the  world,  certainly  not 
one  here  in  Zion;  that  is  something  to  he  noted— What  is  it  that 
causes  these  sisters  to  sacrifice  as  they  do  of  their  time  and  of  their 
means,  to  give  their  efforts  for  the  betterment  of  their  neighbors 
and  their  friends,  for  the  uplifting  of  the  people?  It  is  the  power 
and  spirit  of  the  Priesthood  which  they  partake  of;  for,  let  it  be 
said  that  while  our  sisters  are  not  ordained  to  the  Priesthood,  yet 
we  might  just  as  well  remember,  we  lords  of  creation,  that  we  never 
can  attain  to  exaltation  in  the  Kingdom  of  God,  not  one  of  us,  with- 
out our  wives.  It  does  not  matter  whether  he  is  a  president  of  the 
Church  or  what  office  he  holds,  or  how  great  his  Priesthood  or 
calling:  "The  man  is  not  without  the  woman  in  the  Lord,"  in  the 
Church,  in  the  Kingdom  of  God.  He  can't  be  redeemed  or  exalted 
in  the  presence  of  God  without  his  wife;  so  they  partake  of  this 
honor,  of  this  majesty,  this  power  in  this  wonderful  organization. 
Nothing  like  it,  nothing  can  be  thought  of  like  it  in  the  world,  where 
there  is  such  a  union,  men  and  women  operating  together,  every- 
one members  of  the  Church,  everyone  having  a  voice  and  a  vote — 
the  most  democratic  organization  in  all  the  world  because  everyone 
has  that  power:  and,  let  me  say,  while  the  hand 
of  the  Lord  is  over  all  the  nations  of  the  world,  yet 
the  special  power  and  the  evidence  of  it  that  he  would  give  to  this 
people,  and  something  more  than  he  had  ever  given  to  any  other 
people,  is  before  us. 

I  read  from  the  84th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  of  Covenants;  "And 
this  greater  Priesthood  administereth  the  gospel  and  holdeth  the  key 
of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom,  even  the  key  of  the  knowledge  of 
God;"  and  this  is  life  eternal,  to  know  him,  the  only  true  God,  and 
Jesus  Christ  whom  he  hast  sent.  "And  this  greater  Priesthood  ad- 
ministereth the  gospel  and  holdeth  the  key  of  the  mysteries  of  the 
kingdom,  even  the  key  of  the  knowledge  of  God.  Therefore,  in  the 
ordinances  thereof,  the  power  of  godliness  is  manifest  and  without 
the  ordinances  thereof,  and  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood,  the  power 
of  godliness  is  not  manifest  unto  men  in  the  flesh."  That  is  the  word 
of  the  Lord.  That  is  what  we  have.  That  is  what  the  Lord  has  given 
us.  I  do  not  need  to  ask  Latter-day  Saints,  which  is  the  way?  They 
are  not  groping  blindly  for  the  way  of  life,  for  the  path  that  leadeth  to 
eternal  life.  They  have  found  it.  They  know  it.  They  have  it.  In 
the  world,  where  they  have  not  this  konwledge  of  God,  nor  the  key  of 
it,  nor  the  power  that  goes  with  it,  they  are  more  or  less  groping  for 
the  way.  They  have  lost  the  way;  they  are  feeling  their  way,  doing 
good,  no  doubt,  many,  many  millions  trying  to  do  good,  and  will  do 
good,  seeking  the  way  of  life,  and  yet,  sometimes,  when  the  truth  is 
placed  before  even  those  who  are  good  people  and  doing  good, 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


as  was  remarked  here  the  other  day,  they  cannot  accept  it  because 
the  sacrifice  seems  too  great. 

But  this  is  certain,  everyone  that  seeketh,  findeth;  "If  you  truly 
seek,  ye  shall  surely  find."  The  Lord  has  decreed  it,  and,  as  we  are 
told  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  there  is  a  promise  held  out,  that  if 
you  seek  with  real  intent,  with  an  earnest  desire  to  know  of  the 
truth,  you  can  find  it;  and  no  man  or  woman  who  has  ever  put  that 
matter  to  the  test  but  what  has  been  able  to  come  to  a  realization  and 
finally  to  a  knowledge  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  very  deed. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  testify  of  it.  I  know  that  the 
power  of  godliness,  as  I  have  read  here  from  this  book,  is  mani- 
fested in  this  Church,  and  without  this  Priesthood,  and  without  the 
ordinances  of  the  gospel,  and  the  authority  of  it,  the  power  of 
godliness  is  not  manifest  to  men  in  the  flesh,  and  never  will  be. 
It  is  something  to  be  proud  of  and  to  rejoice  over.  I  bear  testimony 
to  you  once  again  that  the  Lord  is  at  the  head,  the  Lord  our  God 
is  giving  direction  and  guidance  to  this  Church  and  people,  through 
his  appointed  servants  whom  he  has  called,  whom  he  has  brought  to 
their  present  positions.  They  did  not  do  it  themselves,  not  by  a  long 
way,  nor  would  they  for  a  moment  attempt  to  claim  it.  They  never 
did  and  never  will;  but  the  Lord  has  done  it.  It  is  marvelous  in  our 
sight.  It  is  a  wonder  how  he  operates  and  guides  and  directs  in  all 
the  activities  of  the  Church. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  work.  God  bless 
our  liberty-loving  nation.  It  stands  for  liberty,  after  all.  God  bless 
every  influence  and  power  in  every  church,  in  every  association,  in 
every  organization  in  the  world,  that  makes  for  liberty  and  righteous- 
ness, peace  on  earth  and  good-will  to  all  men.  May  the  Lord  help 
them,  too;  but  in  this  Church,  in  this  organization,  where  He 
acknowledges  this  Priesthood,  this  special  gift,  this  special  power, 
where  the  power  of  godliness  is  manifested  through  it ;  and  without 
it— so  says  the  Lord,  not  I — the  Lord  says  that  without  this  Priest- 
hood and  the  ordinances  that  go  with  it,  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel, 
the  power  of  godliness  is  not  manifest  to  men  in  the  flesh.  Amen. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

My  Brethren  and  Sisters:  This  conference  has  been  one  of  in- 
spiring testmonies  of  God's  work  in  the  earth  to  redeem  his  children. 
With  you,  I  feel  to  dedicate  my  life  to  better  service  among  my  fellow 
men  for  the  cause  of  the  Master.  Service  may  be  rendered  in  our 
daily  activities  of  life,  and  though  we  feel  at  times  how  prosaic  our 
duties  are,  yet  with  the  Spirit  of  God  with  us,  our  words  and  deeds 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


91 


may  radiate  new  life  and  hope  to  those  with  whom  we  come  in  con- 
tact. Life  is  a  way  of  strenuous  duty,  but  when  we  have  been  thrilled 
with  Christ's  love,  we  do  not  think  of  self,  but  the  good  of  all  hu- 
manity is  our  aim.  You  recall  that  St.  Luke  tells  us  in  exquisite  words 
how  the  shepherds  returned  to  their  flocks  after  they  had  heard  the 
angels'  song,  and  had  seen  the  Christ-child  in  the  manger.  Though  they 
had  seen  the  Redeemer  and  had  partaken  of  his  spirit,  they  returned 
to  their  daily  duties  with  hearts  full  of  sweetness  and  light,  and  were 
thankful  for  their  powers  to  perform  their  daily  work  and  duties  with 
an  eye  single  to  God's  glory. 

I  was  very  much  impressed  with  the  words  of  Bishop  Charles  W. 
Nibley  this  morning.  They  contained  much  food  for  thought.  They 
suggested  to  me  a  very  important  question  for  us  all  to  think  about: 
"Is  the  world  to  the  point  of  a  moral  collapse  ?"  This  question,  though 
one  of  large  proportions,  should  be  of  interest  to  every  one  who  has 
an  interest  in  life.  I  am  an  optimist,  and  know  full  well  that  every 
child  of  God  has  more  good  in  him  than  bad,  but  I  have  come  to  be- 
lieve that  mankind  is  suffering  for  the  want  of  spiritual  light,  and  that 
old  standards  of  morality  are  fading  away.  The  Christian  sects  today 
are  teaching  many  false  doctrines  in  the  name  of  the  Master ;  and  our 
universities  and  schools  are  giving  foolish  theories  in  the  name  of  truth. 
Much  of  our  teaching  has  become  nothing  but  a  suppression  of  the 
powers  of  the  individual  child  to  live ;  and  the  planting  in  his  heart  of 
false  conceptions  of  life.  Today,  our  teaching  has  become  mechanized ; 
and  much  of  our  education  reminds  me  of  a  "Thibetan  prayer-wheel, 
busily  turning-,  but  barren  of  purpose."  Teachers  today  are  following 
an  old  time  groove;  they  are  traveling  in  a  rut,  and  their  words  are 
barren  of  spiritual  life  and  inspiration.  I  have  a  right  to  speak  thus, 
for  I  am  a  teacher,  and  I  realize  something  of  our  faults.  It  is  due 
largely  to  the  lack  of  spiritualizing  of  our  children  in  the  schools  and 
churches  that  the  world  is  lacking  in  high  standards  of  morals.  Our 
methods  of  teaching  are  wrong,  because  we  are  wanting  in  knowl- 
edge and  spiritual  insight  into  humanity's  heart.  Our  schools  and 
churches  must  be  revolutionized  and  made  to  come  into  the  new  age 
in  standards  and  in  a  knowledge  of  God's  purposes. 

Last  evening,  I  had  the  pleasure  of  listening  to  our  friend,  Dr. 
Schwartz.  He  made  a  plea  for  Russia  and  the  Russian  people.  Not 
only  Russia,  but  all  the  nations  of  Europe  need  help,  for  their  people 
are  starving.  They  need  not  only  bread ;  but  they  are  in  sore  need  of 
the  "bread  of  life,"  for  they  have  strayed  from  the  teachings  of  Christ, 
the  Master.  I  wish  to  say  to  Dr.  Schwartz  and  his  people  that  the 
gospel  of  Christ  Jesus  is  again  restored  to  the  earth  in  its  purity ;  and 
there  is  only  one  way  in  which  his  people  and  all  peoples  can  come 
into  the  light,  and  that  is  through  the  Gate  of  Eternal  Life  as  revealed 
by  our  Savior.  All  people  must  yet  seek  the  "way,  the  truth,  and  the 
light,"  and  mankind  must  unselfishly  and  humbly  go  to  God  for  di- 
vine guidance.    The  Latter-day  Saints  declare  that  the  Priesthood  of 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


God  is  again  on  the  earth,  and  that  the  lives  of  those  holding  the 
Priesthood  must  be  clean  and  pure. 

The  spirit  of  man  is  divine.  We  are  of  God,  with  the  same 
powers  in  embryo  likened  unto  a  God.  We  believe  with  all  our  might 
and  strength  that  the  light  within  us  and  the  divinity  of  our  own 
spirits  will  yet  cause  us  to  be  truly  and  greatly  educated  children ;  and 
we  base  our  testimony  of  life  on  the  inner  light,  the  power  and  light 
of  God  within  us.  We  Latter-day  Saints  are  not  basing  our  lives  on 
gold  and  silver  and  worldly  goods.  While  we  know  that  we  are  in  a 
life  wherein  we  are  to  deal  with  materiality  with  the  world,  we  do  not 
believe  in  "pinned-on"  religion  or  frivolous  and  conventional  facts 
called  education,  but  we  take  a  stand  for  the  real  development  of  the 
individual  and  his  unity  and  unification  with  God  almighty  and  his 
great  work.  We  are  hoping  that  the  time  will  come  when  it  may  be 
said  of  us  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  not  only  the  most  intellectual 
people  in  all  the  world,  but  they  are  the  most  spiritual,  and  they  win 
souls  unto  the  true  and  living  God  by  the  spiritual  life  they  express  in 
their  words,  actions  and  thoughts.  "Mormonism,"  or  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  teaches  us  that  the  Master,  Jesus  Christ,  is  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  He  is  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  He  is  blessing  us,  and 
is  watching  the  nations  and  all  his  children.  We  know  full  well  that 
every  individual  born  of  woman  is  a  child  of  this  living  God ;  and  we 
bear  testimony  to  the  fact  that  the  living  God  has  spoken,  and  there- 
fore it  is  imperative  that  we  base  our  lives  upon  a  knowledge  of  him 
who  created  all  things.  He  lives  in  heaven  as  our  Father,  whose  king- 
dom is  to  be  established  upon  the  earth.  We  must  therefore  become 
children  of  the  light.  There  is  too  much  stuck-on  religion  in  the  world. 
We  do  hold  that  that  word  "religion"  has  become  more  or  less  false 
throughout  the  world,  but  we  bear  our  testimony  to  you  that  pure  re- 
ligion, the  relationship  of  God  to  man,  is  known  through  the  Spirit  of 
God  and  in  no  other  way.  All  the  teachings  of  Jesus  might  be  put 
into  a  small  brochure  and  read  possibly  within  a  period  of  thirty  min- 
utes. Why  has  the  Master's  life  influenced  the  world  as  it  has  done? 
Because  he  not  only  knew  the  truth,  but  was  of  the  truth,  and  ths 
greatest  man  is  the  man  of  the  truth.  His  whole  spiritual,  mental,  and 
moral  life  is  the  expression  of  the  power  and  divinity  of  Almighty 
God. 

God  is  watching  the  nations  of  the  earth.  He  loves  his  children, 
and  I  believe  that  Russia,  Germany,  Austria,  Turkey,  and  all  the 
nations  of  earth  will  have  great  prophets  and  teachers  who  will  di- 
rect those  people  to  a  higher  and  truer  life.  I  do  not  wish  to  be  un- 
derstood as  saying  that  the  peoples  of  the  different  nations  are  wholly 
in  darkness.  Far  from  that.  The  world  is  becoming  more  civilized, 
and  all  nations  and  peoples  have  given  something  of  eternal  truth  to  the 
world.  I  think,  in  fact,  that  the  great  religions  of  the  world — Buddhism, 
Brahmanism,  and  the  philosophy  of  Confucius  have  with  Chris- 
tianity lifted  the  human  race  to  a  realization  of  something  of  the  pur- 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


93 


poses  of  God.  In  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  all  good- 
ness and  truth,  and  in  it  we  live  and  have  our  greatest  hopes  for  the 
future.  It  will  be  by  humble  acknowledgement  of  God  that  the 
nations  will  be  kept  from  a  moral  collapse. 

May  God  bless  the  suffering  nations  of  Europe.  May  he  heal 
up  the  wounds  of  the  people  of  that  great  and  noble  nation,  Great 
Britain;  may  he  help  France— the  nation  that  has  stood  for  the  intel- 
lectual development  of  mankind ;  may  he  help  Italy,  the  nation  of  art 
and  beauty;  may  he  bless  Germany  whose  people  are  good,  and  who 
have  had  a  pride  in  their  industrial  and  intellectual  life ;  may  Russia  be 
brought  to  the  Gate  of  Life,  for  her  people  have  a  natural  spirit  of 
thrift  and  intelligence.  May  God  bless  all  peoples,  and  may  he  hasten 
the  day  when  all  shall  sing,  "Peace  on  earth,  good  will  toward  men." 
May  we  as  a  people  go  forth  from  this  conference  with  a  stronger  testi- 
mony of  the  truthfulness  of  the  word  of  the  Lord ;  may  we  forget  self, 
and  live  for  the  good  of  others.  May  selfishness  go  from  our  lives, 
and  may  we  live  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  the  divine  priesthood  of 
God.    Then  our  lives  will  be  sanctified.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  "Oh,  for  a  burst  of  song,"  was  sung  by  Judith 
Anderson  Beard. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Grant  read  the  following,  dated  Waterloo,  Belgique, 
September  2,  1921 :  Greetings  from  Orson  F.  Whitney,  May  Wells 
Whitney,  Thomas  M.  Wheeler,  Arthur  H.  Taylor,  Lillian  D.  Lillywhite, 
John  P.  Lillywhite,  Alvin  S.  Nelson. 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

{Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church.) 

At  the  sight  of  this  wonderful  congregation  here,  this  morning 
my  heart  and  soul  are  filled  with  blessing  for  this  people,  and  praise 
to  our  Lord  and  Redeemer  who  sacrificed  his  life  upon  the  cross 
for  us  and  who,  in  these  the  last  days,  has  restored  to  the  earth 
the  wonderful  plan  of  redemption,  that  we  all,  through  obedience 
unto  that  plan,  may  come  back  into  the  presence  of  our  maker. 
I  suppose  about  ninety-eight,  or  more,  per  cent  of  this  wonderful 
congregation  here  today  are  descendants  of  that  Joseph  who  was 
sold  by  his  brothers,  and  are  of  the  lineage  of  his  favored  son  Ephraim. 
Despised  by  most  of  his  brothers,  and,  separated  from  them,  and 
taken  into  a  strange  land,  Joseph  was  protected  and  blessed.   The  Lord 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


made  of  him  an  instrument  through  which  salvation  came  to 
many  people, — a  valuable  lesson  that  you  and  I  today,  and  in  fact 
the  whole  world,  if  they  will  only  learn  it,  may  appreciate  and  enjoy. 
Without  reading  the  scripture,  I  should  like  to  refer  those  who 
do  read  the  Bible  to  the  life  and  history  of  that  wonderful  youth 
of  the  Lord.  He  was  so  blessed  that  the  Lord  manifested  his  power 
unto  him.  That  power  was  so  arranged  that  not  only  the  people  of  his 
own  race,  his  own  family,  were  saved  from  famine  and  from  many 
other  conditions  of  life,  but  whole  nations  of  people  were  saved. 
In  fact  the  whole  plan  of  his  mission  and  ministry  is  a  type  of  the 
great  plan  of  salvation  which  the  Lord  taught  unto  Joseph  Smith 
and  which  he  in  turn  taught  the  people  would  come  to  pass  in  the 
last  days.  Just  a  verse  or  two: 

"And  when  money  failed  in  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  in  the  land  of  Canaan, 

all  the  Egyptians  came  unto  Joseph  and  said:  Give  us  bread,  for  why  should 
we  die  in  thy  presence?    For  the  money  faileth."    *    *  * 

And  Joseph  said:  "Give  your  cattle;  and  I  will  give  you  for  your 
cattle,  if  money  fail.  And  they  brought  their  cattle  unto  Joseph, 
and  Joseph  gave  them  bread  in  exchange  for  horses,  and  for  the 
flocks,  and  for  the  cattle  of  the  herds,  and  for  the  asses;  and  he 
fed  them  with  bread,  for  all  their  cattle,  for  that  year."  The  nex': 
year  the  same,  and  so  on,  until,  they  had  given  all  their  money  and 
all  their  cattle,  and  when  all  their  earthly  possessions  had  gone,  they 
finally  came  and  offered  themselves  to  Joseph  and  to  Pharaoh  that 
they  might  be  saved  alive;  and  (because  they  did  give  all  of  their 
possessions,  their  lands  and  actually  themselves,  they  sacrificed  all 
that  they  had  in  order  to  he  saved,  through  the  blessings  of  the 
Almighty,  through  the  ministry  and  mission  of  one  of  his  chosen 
servants  who  was  led  away  into  a  strange  land  and  in  a  peculiar  man- 
ner. 

"Then  Joseph  said  unto  the  people,  Behold,  I  have  bought  you  this  day 
and  your  land,  for  Pharaoh;  lo,  here  is  seed  for  you,  and  you  shall  sow  the 
land.  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  in  the  increase  that  ye  shall  give  the 
fifth  part  unto  Pharaoh;  and  four  parts  shall  be  your  own  for  seed  of  the 
field,  and  for  your  food,,  and  for  them  of  your  households,  and  for  food  for 
your  little  ones.    *    *  *" 

The  thought  is  this,  brethren  and  sisters,  after  they  were  saved 
alive,  that  was  not  sufficient.  The  Lord  in  his  mercy  provided  for  them 
t6  continue  to  live,  to  continue  to  live  through  working  the  lands 
which  they  had  sacrificed  for  their  living,  and  for  their  very  existence, 
literally  for  their  salvation.  They  were  to  continue  to  labor  in  the 
land  and  to  have  their  actual  salvation  in  that  land,  but  they  were 
to  honor  the  rulers  and  the  leaders  of  the  land  through  giving  them 
one-fifth  of  their  increase.  We  are  not  asked  to  give  quite  that  much. 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH  95 


I  would  like  to  refer  you  now  to  the  more  modern  scripture 
upon  this  very  subject.  A  descendant  of  this  Joseph  who  was  carried 
away  from  his  brothers  through  his  mission  and  ministry  by  the 
blessings  of  the  Almighty  did  bring  about  literal  salvation,  not  only 
to  his  own  family  but  to  all  of  the  people  of  the  land  who  rendered 
their  service  unto  him.  Reading  from  the  third  chapter  of  Second 
Nephi,  concerning  a  descendant  of  this  Joseph,  of  whom  I  have 
spoken:  "And  thus  prophesied  Joseph:  "Behold,  that  seer  will  the 
Lord  bless ;  and  they  that  seek  to  destroy  him  shall  be  confounded 
for  this  promise,  which  I  have  obtained  from  the  Lord,  of  the  fruit 
of  my  loins,  shall  be  fulfilled.  Behold  I  am  sure  of  the  fulfilling  of 
this  promise; 

"And  his  name  shall  be  called  after  me;  and  it  shall  be  after  the 
name  of  his  father.  And  he  shall  be  like  unto  me :  for  the  thing  which 
the  Lord  shall  bring  forth  by  his  hand,  but  the  power  of  the  Lord 
shall  bring  my  people  unto  salvation." 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  work  which 
was  entrusted  into  the  hands  of  Joseph  the  Prophet,  in  these  the  last 
days,  is  to  be  a  literal  type.  In  other  words,  it  is  the  actual  restora- 
tion of  this  great  plan  of  redemption  which  will  not  only  save  the 
house  of  Joseph,  not  only  to  save  you  and  mie  who  are  here,  represent- 
tatives  of  that  great  family  in  Israel  through  our  lineage  and  our 
obedience,  but,  it  will  save  all  who  come  in  from  the  lands  surround- 
ing us,  from  the  nations  of  the  world,  who  render  obedience  unto  the 
laws  that  govern  it.  Its  fulfilment  will  be  literal  in  these  the  last 
days.  I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are  enjoying 
today  the  blessings  of  plenty,  the  blessings  of  the  productions  of  the 
land;  and  as  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  I  give  thanks  to  our  Father 
for  those  glorious  blessings.  I  praise  and  thank  him  for  the  glorious 
plan  of  redemption,  and  trust  that  we  shall  return  unto  him  that 
portion  of  our  increase  which  he  requires  at  our  hands,  and  continue 
to  live  and  enjoy  the  blessings  of  this  land  of  Joseph;  and  in  these 
the  last  days  be  instruments  in  the  hands  of  God  to  bring  about  this 
literal  salvation  to  the  souls  of  men,  that  we  may  not  only  enjoy  the 
blessings  of  our  home  and  our  lands,  but  that  we  may  enjoy  those 
unto  ■  his  chosen  children,  that  we  may  live,  unitedly  together,  shar- 
ing our  blessings,  and  our  privileges  and  returning  unto  God  the  faith 
and  works  which  he  requires  at  our  hands,  that  we  may  continue  to 
live.  In  so  doing  we  will  not  only  honor  ourselves  and  receive  our 
blessings  as  they  have  been  promised,  according  to  the  records,  as 
jthey  were  promised  to  that  Joseph  who  was  sold  by  his  brothers, 
and  to  our  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  who  was  raised  up  of  the  Lord  in 
these  the  last  days,  but  we  shall  enjoy  the  blessings  as  they  have 
been  multiplied  unto  us  in  these  the  last  days,  to  (bring  about  that 
wonderful  and  glorious  salvation  of  the  souls  of  all  men.  We  sang 
yesterday  that  song  about  Joseph  who  gave  his  life  as  a  martyr,  for 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


his  testimony  concerning  the  work  which  the  Lord  entrusted  into 
his  hands.  I  should  like  to  read  again  the  last  verse  of  that  song: 

Sacrifice  brings  forth  the  blessings  of  heaven. 

Earth  must  atone  for  the  blood  of  that  man. 
Wake  up  the  world  for  the  conflict  of  justice. 

Millions  shall  know  brother  Joseph  again. 

Hail  to  the  prophet- — and  so  forth. 

His  life  and  ministry  were  an  actual  type  in  fulfilment  of  that 
type  which  was  given  to  Joseph  who  was  sold  into  Egypt,  to  bring 
about  the  great  plan  of  redemption,  that  we  may  all,  after  we  have 
made  our  sacrifices,  through  giving  into  the  Lord  that  portion  which 
he  requires, — in  service,  and  the  fruits  of  our  labors, — continue  to 
live  and  enjoy  the  blessings  of  heaven  and  earth,,  which  blessings  I 
pray  for,  for  us  all,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

One  of  the  great  responsibilities  which  rests  upon  the  priesthood 
of  this  church  is  to  carry  the  message  of  the  gospel  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth..  Considerable  emphasis  has  already  been  placed  upon  the 
subject  by  the  President,  in  his  opening  remarks,  and  by  other  brethren. 
Since  my  heart  is  in  this  work,  I  desire  to  bear  testimony  of  the  great 
value  of  the  missionary  labor,  the  blessings  and  benefits  derived  there- 
from and  the  absolute  need  of  its  being  carried  forward  in  the  world 
today. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  MISSIONARY  WORK. 

Since  some  of  the  brethren,  who  are  in  charge  of  the  missions, 
feel  that  Latter-day  Saints  need  to  be  stirred  up  with  a  renewed  de- 
termination, not  only  to  send  the  missionaries  into  the  field,  but  to 
maintain  them  while  they  are  there,  I  wish  to  endorse  their  plea.  I  feel 
impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  days  are  numbered  when 
we  may  be  permitted  to  send  our  missionaries  unto  the  Gentile  nations 
of  the  earth.  The  Lord  has  indicated  in  the  revelations  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  that  there  was  to  be  a  dispensation  of  the  preaching 
of  the  gospel  to  the  Gentiles  and  that  the  day  will  come  when  their 
period,  the  times  of  the  Gentiles,  shall  close.  Since  we  have  dis- 
covered, by  the  reports  of  the  missionaries  that  there  has  been  a 
marked  increase  this  present  year  in  baptisms,  it  surely  should  be 
an  incentive,  on  the  part  of  Latter-day  Saints,  to  send  the  laborers, 
while  the  day  lasts,  into  the  vineyard  where  truly  the  harvest  still 
appears  to  be  great  and  the  laborers  are  few.  I  hope  and  pray,  there- 
fore, that  we  shall  not  fail,  and  I  know  we  shall  not,  in  discharging  the 
duty  which  devolves  upon  us  toward  the  nations  of  the  earth  in  this 
respect.    For  this  gospel  was  not  delivered  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


97 


for  us  alone;  it  was  sacredly  entrusted  into  our  hands  for  ourselves 
and  to  preserve  it  for  the  whole  world.  There  never  has  been  a 
time,  since  the  missionaries  began  to  preach  this  gospel,  when  we  have 
forgotten  this  obligation.  Always  there  have  been  men  worthy  and 
willing  to  go.  We  have  seen  days  that  were  more  trying  than  these, 
and  still  there  were  missionaries  provided.  We  have  seen  days  when 
there  were  many  things  to  lure  this  people  away  from  missionary 
work,  but  still  the  hearts  of  our  people  have  not  been  turned  from  the 
great  labor  which  God  has  given  to  this  Church,  of  carrying  this 
gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  There  were  days  when  the  gold 
fever  swept  the  whole  country,  and  our  people  were  nearest  to  the 
point  of  interest,  still  they  were  not  deterred  from  this  great  respon- 
sibility by  the  allurements  of  gold.  Our  missonaries  met  those  gold 
seekers  as  they  pushed  their  handcarts  across  the  plains,  to1  carry  the 
message  of  the  gospel  to  the  children  of  men.  Surely  we  have  acted 
as  if  we  believed  what  we  said,  namely,  that  these  are  the  last  days, 
the  days  of  God's  judgments,  that  they  now  hang  over  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  and  we  alone  know  the  means  of  escape.  Men  of  Israel,  we 
have  been  sent  to  inform  all  men  to  flee  from  the  wrath  that  is  to 
come  and  to  find  salvation  in  this  world  as  well  as  salvation  in  the 
world  to  come. 

THE  SAINTS  HAVE  ALWAYS  PROVED  TRUE  TO  MISSIONARY  OBLIGATIONS. 

While  this  has  not  been  altogether  a  pleasant  message  to  deliver, 
nevertheless,  our  brethren  have  been  true,  and  by  thousands  have  de- 
livered it  faithfully  and  acceptably  to  the  Lord.  Using  President 
Ivins'  illustration,  we  have  acted  as  if  we  realized  the  seriousness  of 
the  situation.  For  if  there  is  a  possibility  of  the  head-gates  coming 
out  and  the  floods  coming  in  on  the  people;  if  there  is  a  possibility 
that  the  dam  above  the  valley  might  break  and  the  people  in  the 
valley  be  engulfed  in  the  on-rushing  water,  what  would  we  do?  If 
we  knew  the  danger,  or  if  we  saw  this  peril  to  men,  from  afar,  or 
ether  calamities  that  might  come  upon  them  and  we  knew  about  it, 
would  we  peacefully  find  a  place  of  security  ourselves  and  watch 
while  their  calamity  came?  No,  we  would  exert  ourselves  to  warn 
men  to  flee  from  the  danger.  And  this  is  the  spirit  that  has  actuated 
those  warnings  that  have  been  uttered  by  the  brethren  who  have 
spoken  at  this  conference ;  this  is  the  spirit  that  accompanies  our  mis- 
sionaries who  go  into  the  world  and  cry  repentance  to  this  generation, 
warning  them  to  flee  from  the  wrath  that  is  to  come.  But,  since  they 
do  not  see  it,  we  who  see  and  know  it,  with  all  the  earnestness  of  our 
souls,  we  must  proclaim  repentance  unto  this  generation.  Some  have 
repented,  but  the  majority  have  not. 

DISPENSATION  OF  PREACHING  TO  THE  GENTILES  DRAWING  TO  A  CLOSE. 

Thank  the  Lord  that  the  day  of  their  repentance  is  yet  extended, 
but  it  shall  not  be  extended  forever,  because  we  are  drawing  to  the 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


close  of  that  dispensation  when  the  gospel  shall  be  preached  to  the 
Gentile  nations,  and  the  wheat  is  being  gathered.  Thank,  the  Lord 
there  is  still  some  wheat,  and  as  long  as  the  days  last,  my  brethren, 
we  are  to  thrust  in  our  sickles  and  reap,  and  send  forth  men  to  dis- 
charge this  great  duty  and  responsibility;  for,  when  the  day  cometh 
that  the  calamities  that  are  spoken  of  shall  be  poured  out  upon  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  let  us  have  no  regret  that  we  failed  to  dis- 
charge our  duty.  Do  we  rejoice  at  the  prospects  of  chastisements  that 
shall  be  ministered  to  men  who  do  not  repent?  No,  we  do  not.  In  my 
heart  I  know — and  I  speak  for  you,  my  brethren — we  do  not  feel  just 
exactly  as  Jonah  did,  who  when  he  prophesied  of  judgments  upon 
the  people,  if  they  did  not  repent,  and  when  the  judgments  of  the  Lord 
were  averted,  through  the  repentance  of  men,  he  felt  bad  because  his 
prophecies  had  not  been  fulfilled.  No,  I  would  rejoice  with  all  my 
soul  if  these  things  that  await  the  nations  of  the  earth  could  only  be 
averted.  I  would  be  happy ;  for  do  we  not  love  the  souls  of  the  child- 
ren of  men?  I  have  spent  thirteen  years  of  my  life  in  missionary  ser- 
vices and  all  of  you  who  have  spent  years  of  your  life  out  there  in 
the  service  of  our  fellow  men — walking  in  the  rain,  or  in  sunshine, 
in  the  mud  and  in  the  cold,  'because  we  love  their  souls — which  we 
could  not  have  done  without  begetting  love  for  them.  And  if  it  were 
in  our  power  to  change  the  conditions  we  would  do*  it ;  but  we  cannot ; 
even  God  himself  cannot  change  the  conditions  that  will  result,  except 
men  repent.  If  they  repent,  then  they  shall  escape ;  but  if  they  repent 
not,  then  they  shall  taste  of  these  things  that  are  coming. 

LET  US  ROUND  UP  OUR  SHOULDERS  TO  OUR  DUTY,  WHILE  THE  DAY  LASTS. 

In  the  meantime,  while  the  day  lasts,  let  us  round  up  our  shoulders 
and  discharge  that  duty,  out  of  love  for  those  who  are  yet  in  dark- 
ness and  yet  in  the  world  without  the  knowledge  of  this  truth ;  that 
they  may  come  to  Zion  and  rejoice  with  us,  and  that  we  may  have 
our  garments  clear  of  the  blood  of  this  generation,  and  that  our, 
heavenly  Father  may  be  justified  in  that  which  he  shall  cause  to  come 
upon  the  unrepentant  and  the  wicked. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  sure  that  after  the  appeals 
that  have  been  made,  we  will  gather  our  strength  and  send  it  forth 
to  continue  to  discharge  this  great  responsibility;  and  those  who 
do  not  have  sons  in  the  field  will  lend  a  helping  hand  to  those  who 
do,  that  the  boys  who  have  not  means  shall  not  be  under  the  neces- 
sity of  coming  home,  but  that  the  bishops,  as  suggested,  shall  call 
for  help  and  support  and  strength  at  home.  There  is  no  greater 
work  devolving  upon  the  Church  than  the  preaching  of  the  gospel 
while  these  precious  days  last.  Let  us  not  falter  nor  hesitate,  but  go 
forward  and  be  justified. 

OUR  DUTY  TO  THE  GATHERED  SAINTS. 

The  other  great  responsibility  that  rests  upon  the  priesthood 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


99 


of  this  Church,  and  all  the  members  of  the  Church,  is  that  we  shall 
sanctify  ourselves  and  our  sons  and  daughters,  and  preserve  that 
which  the  Lord  has  given  us ;  so  that  we  may  establish  here  a  people 
who  shall  be  an  ensign  and  a  pattern,  an  example  to  the  world,  as 
well  as  to  prepare  the  people  for  the  coming  of  the  Redeemer  to  live 
among  men  in  the  flesh. 

I  wish  to>  read  a  few  words  from  the  105th  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants : 

Verily  I  say  unto  you  who  have  assembled  yourselves  together  that 
you  may  learn  my  will  concerning  the  redemption  of  mine  afflicted  people. 

Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  were  it  not  for  the  transgressions  of  my  peo- 
ple, speaking  concerning  the  Church  and  not  individuals,  they  might  have 
been  redeemed  even  now; 

But  behold,  they  have  not  learned  to  be  obedient  to  the  things  which 
I  required  at  their  hands,  but  are  full  of  all  manner  of  evil,,  and  do  not  im- 
part of  their  substance,  as  becometh  Saints,  to  the  poor  and  afflicted 
among  them, 

And  are  not  united  according  to  the  union  required  by  the  law  of  the 
celestial  kingdom; 

And  Zion  cannot  be  built  up  unless  it  is  by  the  principles  of  the  law 
of  the  celestial  kingdom,  otherwise  I  cannot  receive  her  unto  myself;  and 
my  people  must  needs  be  chastened  until  they  learn  obedience,  tif  it  must 
needs  be,  by  the  things  which  they  suffer. 

THE  GOSPEL  THE  KEY  TO  SOLVE  THE  WORLD'S  VEXING  PROBLEMS. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  that,  notwithstanding 
we  are  in  the  midst  of  these  chastisements — not  because,  perhaps,  of 
any  deliberate  wickedness  on  the  part  of  the  people  but  because  many 
of  us  have  heard  the  warning  voice  of  the  shepherd  of  Israel,  but 
have  not  heeded  that  warning  voice,  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  there 
is  no  plan  devised  for  the  solution  of  these  vexing  problems  that  are 
now  before  us  and  before  the  world;  there  is  no  plan  devised  that 
shall  succeed,  except  the  plan  that  our  God  has  given  to  this  people. 
In  the  restoration  of  the  everlasting  gospel  there  was  given  and  com- 
mitted to  man  in  this  dispensation  every  means,  key,  principle  and 
power  to  solve  each  and  every  vexing  problem  that  now  distresses 
the  world.  We  have  been  given  those  principles,  and,  thank  the 
Lord!  we  are  making  some  progress  toward  their  solution.  I  rejoice, 
notwithstanding  we  are  occasionally  in  need  of  chastisement,  that  we 
are  not  going  to  fail.  I  know  that.  You  will  read  that  in  the  days 
of  Daniel,  he,  looking  down  through  all  the  ages  following  his  own 
day,  saw  the  rise  of  the  kingdoms  of  the  world  and  their  dissolution, 
until  he  saw,  in  these  the  last  days,  the  kingdom  of  God  being  estab- 
lished, as  a  stone  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands. 

GOD'S  WORK  WILL  NOT  FAIL,  NOR/  BE  GIVEN  TO  ANOTHER  PEOPLE. 

In  connection  with  the  rise  of  that  great  work  of  our  Father  in- 
the  last  days,  he  declared  a  new  thing,  a  thing  that  never  was  declared 
to  any  other  dispensation  fromi  the  days  of  Father  Adam,  namely, 
that  the  work  of  God  in  that  day  should  not  fail;  it  should  not  be 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


overcome;  neither  shall  it  be  left  to  another  people.  Two  wonderful 
promises.  I  recognize  that  in  the  dispensations  that  have  preceded 
our  own,  men  have  hoped  and  dreamed  that  there  would  be  established 
in  might  and  power,  the  work  of  God  but  in  sorrow  they  had  to  see 
the  power  of  evil  triumph  in  the  world.  But  that  shall  never  be  re- 
peated again,  for  this  work  has  been  established  to  roll  forth,  and  it 
shall  not  fail.  You  may  fail;  I  may  fail,  but  this  shall  not  fail.  I 
rejoice  to  know  that,  while  some  of  us  may  falter  and  hesitate,  this 
people  shall  not  be  rejected.  The  Lord  said  to  Daniel  that  the  work 
should  not  go  to  another  people;  and  the  Lord  has  indicated  that  in 
a  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  You  find  it  in  the 
closing  two  verses  of  the  ninetieth  section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants : 

ZION  SHALL  NOT  BE  MOVED  OUT  OF  HER  PLACE. 

But  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  I,  the  Lord,  will  contend  with  Zion, 
and  plead  with  her  strong  ones,  and  chasten  her  until  she  overcomes  and 
is  clean  before  me; 

For  she  shall  not  he  removed  out  of  her  place;  1,  the  Lord,  have 
spoken  it. 

That  kind  of  a  promise  entails  the  necessity  of  chastisement, 
when  we  need  to  be  chastened  and  corrected  and  brought  to  a  con- 
dition of  repentance.  I  recognize  that  the  Lord  cannot  fulfil  his 
work  nor  accomplish  his  purposes  without  our  willing  obedience.  He 
will  not  use  this  people  unless  we  are  willing  to  be  used ;  but  he  has 
means  of  correcting,  he  has  means  of  chastisement,  which  he  will 
apply  from  time  to  time,  and  the  only  thing  that  impedes  our  pro- 
gress today  is  our  own  lack  of  willingness  to  follow  the  counsel 
of  those  whom  God  has  appointed  to  lead  this  people,  because  of  the 
imagination  of  our  hearts  that  we  are  wiser  than  they  are. 

AN  APPEAL  TO  FOLLOW  THE  COUNSEL  OF  OUR  LEADERS. 

I  want  to  make  an  appeal  to  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  the 
Church  and  to  the  priesthood  of  the  Church  who  lead  in  the  wards 
and  stakes  of  Zion,  that  w;e  shall  rally  to  those  whom  God  has  ap- 
pointed to  lead  this  people.  What  brings  success?  Doing  the  right 
thing  at  the  right  time.  What  will  relieve  this  people  of  their  pres- 
ent difficulties?  Following  the  counsel  of  those  men  who  have  been 
appointed,  in  the  wards  and  the  stakes  of  Zion,  to  lead  this  people, 
not  only  in  spiritual  matters,  but  in  material  things  as  well.  We  do 
not  wish  that  these  brethren  shall  be  appointed  dictators  or  directors, 
but  they  are  there  for  counsel  and  advice.  I  know  that  there  are 
brethren  who  think  that  they  know  more  than  the  bishop  of  the 
ward,  and  they  would  not  go  to  him  to  counsel  with  him  concern- 
ing their  material  things ;  nor  would  they  go  to  the  president  of  the 
stake  or  even  to  the  president  of  the  Church.  But  I  want  to  tell  you 
there  is  a  wisdom  and  an  inspiration  resting  with  these  men,  who 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


101 


have  been  called  to  be  leaders  of  the  people,  that  is  greater  than  the 
wisdom  of  men  who  may  think  they  know  very  much  more,  but  who, 
nevertheless,  will  discover  that  these  are  the  days  when  the  wisdom 
of  the  wise  shall  perish  and  the  understanding  of  the  prudent  be  hid. 
The  light,  the  wisdom  and  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  come  to  his 
humble  servants  to  counsel  and  advise  this  people,  and  it  will  lead 
them  to  victory,  as  it  has  done  in  the  past — to  success  in  material 
things  as  well  as  in  spiritual  things, 

ASK  THE  LORD  FOR  COUNSEL. 

I  ask  my  brethren  and  sisters  to  be  more  diligent  with  refer- 
ence to  seeking  for  proper  guidance  and  direction  in  material  things. 
When  you  do  not  know  what  to  do,  study  it  out  in  your  mind.  You 
get  the  key  in  the  ninth  section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Coven- 
ants, which  is  applicable  to  these  circumstances,  and  also  to  the  af- 
fairs of  life  with  which  we  are  concerned.  Go  and  study  it  out,  and 
when  you  reach  your  conclusion,  if  you  are  not  clear  in  your  mind 
as  to  the  thing  you  want  to  do,  go  and  ask  the  Lord  before  you  do  it, 
as  to  whether  it  is  right.  If  it  is  right,  he  will  cause  your  bosom 
to  burn  within  you,  and  you  will  know  whether  it  is  right.  If  you 
do  not  have  that  feeling,  but  only  a  stupor  of  thought,  and  there  is 
uncertainty  about  it,  turn  away  from;  that  thing.  Re  sure  you  are 
right  and  then  go  ahead ;  and  we  can't  be  sure  we  are  right  until  we 
receive  the  witness  from  the  Lord,  that  it  is  the  proper  thing  to  do. 
I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  the  Lord  is  concerned  in  the  material 
prosperity  of  this  people. 

THE  BASIS  OF  MATERIAL  BLESSINGS. 

God  will  never  give  this  people  that  which  will  turn  them  from 
him.  Whenever  he  sees  that  in  our  increase  in  the  things  of  this 
world  there  is  danger  that  our  hearts  will  be  turned  away,  he  knows 
how  to  shrink  that  prosperity  and  bring  us  just  where  he  wants  us. 
He  will  continue  to  do  that  until  we  are  willing  to  be  led ;  and  when 
the  people  are  willing  to  follow  those  whom  God  has  appointed  to 
lead  them,  and  they  will  serve  him,  pay  their  honest  tithing,  and  keep 
his  commandments,  I  will  tell  you  there  are  blessings  of  a  material 
character  beyond  anything  we  have  ever  conceived  of,  that  the  Lord 
could  give  this  people  immediately  if  he  desired.  O,  I  have  faith  in 
him.  There  will  come  tight  times,  yes,  and  days  of  peril.  I  think 
it  is  a  blessing  that  the  granaries  and  the  barns  are  full.  Do  not 
complain  about  it.  Brethren,  do  not  be  disturbed  over  it.  It  may  be 
possible  that  even  in  this  the  Lord  has  a  plan  and  a  purpose,  for,  O, 
how  much  worse  our  condition  Would  be  if  our  banks  were  full  of 
money  and  our  barns  were  empty  and  our  granaries  were  vacant. 
There  are  coming  days  of  trial.  There  are  coming  days  of  famine, 
and  the  world  shall  feel  the  pang  of  hunger  beyond  that  which  they 
feel  today ;  but  even  today,  there  are  millions  in  Russia  and  in  China, 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


notwithstanding  the  world  is  full  of  abundance,  who  are  suffering 
the  pangs  of  hunger.  There  is  coming  a  day  when  the  crops  shall 
be  destroyed  by  a  hail  storm;  and  how  easy  to1  deluge  the  whole 
world  in  famine!  Let  this  people  keep  a  surplus  of  their  foodstuffs, 
both  for  man  and  beasts,  and  it  will  be  profitable  to  them.  One  good 
season  may  liquidate  our  material  obligations,  if  we  will  be  wise 
and  prudent,  and  listen  to  the  counsel  of  the  brethren.  Let  us  be 
economical  and  save,  and  pay  our  tithes.  In  this  time  when  we  are 
tempted  to  take  everything  we  have  to  meet  our  other  obligations, 
let  us  not  forget  the  obligations  which  we  owe  to  the  Lord,  if  we 
want  to  be  vindicated.  I  will  tell  you,  as  the  Lord  God  lives,  if  this 
people  will  turn  to  the  Lord  and  serve  him,  cease  our  extravagance, 
pay  our  tithes,  and  humble,  ourselves,  we  will  see  deliverance,  and  we 
will  not  come  into  bondage  nor  into  difficulties ;  and  there  is  no  other 
way  out  of  it  that  I  know  anything  about.  I  rejoice  to  know  that 
we  have  men  who  can  stand  as  watchmen  upon  the  towers  of  Zior. 
and  call  our  attention  to  these  things. 

THE  DANGER  OF  IMMORALITY. 

In  conclusion  let  me  make  an  appeal  to  you  concerning  another 
thing.  Not  only  is  there  sweeping  over  the  world  distress  of  a  finan- 
cial character,  waves  that  are  deluging  people  in  distress,  in  debt 
and  in  obligations,  but  there  is  another  thing  that  is  more  serious. 
I  would  that  this  was  the  only  thing  that  was  afflicting 
us  and  the  only  thing  that  is  imminent  in  the  world.  Far 
more  precious  to  us  than  our  houses  and  our  lands  and  our  fields 
are  our  sons  and  daughters,  and  the  evil  one  has  con- 
spired to  capture  them.  He  is  not  so  much  concerned  about  get- 
ting our  farms  and  fields,  but  O,  more  precious  than  all  these  things 
are  our  sons  and  daughters !  Sweeping  over  the  world  are  waves 
of  immorality,  for  the  standards  of  the  world  have  broken  down,  an-fl 
these  dangers  are  all  about  us.  Shall  we  stand  when  this  tide  comes 
upon  us?  I  believe  we  shall;  and  yet,  as  a  watchman  upon  the  towers 
of  Zion,  I  call  you,  my  brethren,  to  watch,  to  work,  to  pray,  and  to 
guard  the  flocks  over  whom  God  hath  made  you  overseers,  that 
the  insidious  influence  of  evil,  if  it  comes  in  to  seek  to  corrupt  the 
morals  of  this  people,  shall  not  have  power  to  succeed,  but  that  we 
shall  live  up  to  the  standards  under  which  I  was  raised,  and  you  were 
raised,  that  we  shall  teach  our  sons  and  daughters  that  next  to  murder 
itself,  is  the.  crime  of  sexual  impurity.  We  have  that  standard.  We 
expect  the  boy  to  be  just  as  clean  and  as  pure  as  the  girl  whom  he 
marries,  to  be  his  wife  and  the  mother  of  his  children.  We  have 
been  preserved  and  protected  up  to  this  time  by  living  up  to  these 
standards.  Let  us  not  lessen  the  requirements,  not  a  bit;  but  em- 
phasize them,  and  fortify  our  boys  and  girls  against  that  _  which  is 
conspiring  against  them.  If  they  shall  succeed  in  preserving  them- 
selves, during  these  perilous  times,  and  come  out  clean  and  uncon- 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


103 


taminated,  I  will  tell  you  that  their  praise  will  be  sung;  yes,  by  more 
people  and  in  louder  acclaim  than  the  praises  of  our  fathers  who  sub- 
dued the  desert  and  made  it  blossom  as  the  rose.  Good  is  coming  to 
Zion.  While  she  has  her  days  of  chastisement,  repentance  will  come ; 
we  will  not  be  forsaken  by  the  Lord,  if  we  will  not  forsake  him, 
and  may  God  grant  that  we  shall  not.  Let  us  all  go  home  resolved 
more  nearly  to  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments,  and  then, 
I  will  promise  you,  all  shall  be  well  with  Zion  and  her  people,  which 
may  God  grant,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

I  desire  that  during  the  few  minutes  I  stand  before  you,  the 
words  I  speak  may  be  prompted  by  the  inspiration  of  our  heavenly 
Father. 

TWO  TYPES  OF  GREAT  SPEAKERS. 

There  have  been  two  types  of  great  speakers ;  shall  I  say  two 
types  of  great  orators?  One  type  reached  its  highest  form  in  Cicero. 
The  other  type  reached  its  perfection  in  Demosthenes.  It  is  said 
that  when  Cicero  stood  before  the  people  they  all  listened  with  great 
interest,  and  as  they  w.ere  leaving  the  assembly  they  said  to  one 
another:  "How  well  Cicero  speaks."  They  had  praise  for  his  voice, 
praise  for  his  words,  praise  for  his  rhetoric,  praise  for  his  eloquence. 

But  when  the  multitudes  listened  to  that  master  speaker,  De- 
mosthenes, they  never  thought  of  his  language,  his  rhetoric,  or  his 
words,  but  rushed  from  the  building  exclaiming:  "Come,  let  us  go  up 
against  Philip!" 

PRESIDENT  GRANT'S  WORDS  URGE  US  TO  ACTION. 

In  the  remarks  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  we  heard  words 
like  the  words  of  Demosthenes.  This  good  shepherd  told  us  to  get 
out  of  debt  and  remain  out  of  debt.  As  soon  as  possible  I  propose 
to  get  out  of  debt. 

ON  THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM. 

He  asked  us  also  to  remember  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  President 
Grant  has  himself  been  a  model  in  the  matter  of  keeping  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  I  doubt  if  any  other  man  has  appealed  to  the  people 
more  earnestly  or  effectively  to  induce  them  to  live  in  accordance  with 
these  inspired  health  teachings  than  he  has. 

It  has  been  variously  estimated  that  ten  per  cent  or  twenty  per 
cent,  or  forty  per  cent  of  the  people  in  the  Church  use  tea  and  coffee. 
1  propose  that  when  we  leave  this  conference  we  do  so  accepting  the 
message  of  the  prophet  of  God,  that  is,  that  we  leave  the  building 
determined  to  live  in  strict  accordance  with  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ON  HOME  INDUSTRY. 

The  President,  the  man  whom  we  sustain  as  our  Prophet,  also 
appealed  to  us  yesterday  to  support  home  industry.  I  propose  not 
to  talk  about  his  eloquence,  but  to  leave  the  building  determined  to 
reform  in  this  respect.    Will  you  do  the  same  thing? 

I  wish  I  could  say,  as  he  did,  that  he  was  standing  in  shoes 
made  at  Z.  C.  M.  I.,  and  that  he  has  wtorn  Z.  C.  M.  I.  made  shoes 
for  thirty  years.  I  have  made  a  resolution  that  at  the  next  confer- 
ence I  will  stand,  on  one  condition,  in  Z.  C.  M.  I.  shoes — Will  you 
do  the  same  thing?  That  condition  is  that  they  can  find  a  piece  of 
leather  big  enough  to  make  them.  (Laughter.) 

The  President  said  that  while  the  Knight  Woolen  Mills  of  Provo 
were  manufacturing  cloth  for  making  clothing,  he  wore  home-made 
goods.  He  did  not  say  here  what  he  said  to  me  before  the  meeting, 
namely:  "It  was  my  intention  to  have  a  suit  of  clothes  made  from 
cloth  from  the  Knight  Woolen  Mills  before  this  conference,  but  I 
have  been  away  from  the  city  and  from  the  State  so  much  of  late 
that  I  did  not  get  it  done." 

When  in  Provo  the  other  day  I  went  to  the  Woolen  Mills  and 
purchased  an  overcoat,  made  of  Utah  wool  by  Utah  workmen,  and 
it  is  the  best  bargain  in  every  sense  I  ever  had  in  an  overcoat.  The 
reason  I  am  not  wearing  it  is  because  the  weather,  or  this  building 
is  so  hot.  I  promise  to  leave  here  with  a  resolution  to  the  effect  that 
if  Brother  Golden  Kimball  will  sign  a  note  with  me,  to  get  the  money, 
I  shall  have  a  suit  made  of  goods  from  the  Knight  Woolen  Mills  be- 
fore the  next  General  Conference. 

Long  years  ago  when  the  people  of  America  were  about  to  de- 
clare their  independence  and  that  great  American,  Benjamin  Frank- 
lin, was  before  the  House  of  Lords  being  examined,  he  was  asked 
the  question:  "But  how  can  you  live  in  America  without  the  pro- 
ducts of  England?" 

Benjamin  Franklin  replied  about  as  follows :  "The  goods  that 
we  receive  from  England  may  be  divided  into  three  classes :  First, 
the  necessities ;  next,  the  mere  conveniences ;  and  third,  the  luxuries." 
You  have  all  seen  that  picture  I  am  sure,  of  a  sheep  with  a  little 
wagon  behind  carrying  its  great  big  tail.  That  was  devised  as  a  re- 
sult of  the  remarks  of  Benjamin  Franklin. 

He  said :  "In  America  the  people  are  loyal,  they  have  quit  eat- 
ing lamb,  so  they  will  have  more  wool,  and  it  is  only  a  question  of  a 
little  time  until  we  can  produce  all  of  the  necessities.  It  will  be  but 
a  little  longer  when  we  can  also  produce  the  mere  conveniences ;  and 
the  luxuries,"  he  said,  "because  of  the  patriotism  of  our  people,  are 
cut  off  already." 

So  I  appeal  to  you  Americans  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  the  man 
who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church,  and  support  home  industry. 

I  was  at  the  Fair  yesterday.    It  was  gratifying  to  see  there  the 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN. 


105 


products  of  the  institutions  and  organizations  of  our  own  State.  I 
propose  to  listen  to  the  words  of  the  man  who  stands  at  the  head  of 
the  Church,  and  leave  this  conference  saying:  "Come,  let  us  go  forth 
and  use  first  the  products  of  our  own  State." 

RELIGIOUS    AND    INDUSTRIAL    TRAINING    OF  CHILDREN. 

.'  But  that  is  not  what  I  want  to  talk  about.  In  the  32nd  chapter 
of  Proverbs,  and  the  6th  verse,  appear  these  words: 

"Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he  should  go,  and  when  he  is  old 
he  will  not  depart  from  it."  The  29th  and  last  verse  in  that  same 
22nd  chapter  says : 

"Seest  thou  a  man  diligent  in  his  business?  He  shall  stand  be- 
fore kings,  he  shall  not  stand  before  mean  men." 

So  I  desire  to  urge  the  proper  training  of  our  children,  the  bring- 
ing up  of  the  child  in  the  way  he  should  go.  I  urge  faithful  devotion 
to  business.  I  ask  you  this  question.  If  you  have  a  son,  in  how 
many  ways  is  he  trained  to  make  a  living?  I  have  the  reputation, 
especially  among  the  engineering  students  of  the  University  of  Utah, 
of  helping  them  to  find  employment.  I  have  helped  a  good  many 
others,  and  I  have  been  surprised  when  some  young  men  have  come 
to  ask  for  employment  to  find  before  me  a  human  being  with  un- 
trained hands,  and  untrained  eyes,  and  untrained  ears,  and  an  un- 
trained mind.  Honor  be  to  the  man  who  took  his  boy  to  an  expert 
workman  and  said:  "I  want  my  boy  to  learn  to  work.  I  would 
like  to  have  you  give  him  some  employment." 

"I  don't  have  very  much  business,"  replied  the  man,  "I  have  no 
work  for  him  to  do.  If  I  had  the  work,  I  haven't  the  means  with 
which  to  pay  for  his  services." 

"Well,"  said  the  father,  not  in  the  presence  of  the  boy,  however, 
"I  will  let  the  boy  board  at  home.  You  go  to  him,  tell  him  you  will 
pay  him  for  his  services  $15  a  month,  and  each  month  I  will  give 
you  a  check  for  $15." 

Honor  to  the  man  who  teaches  his  boy  to  work,  and  is  more 
concerned  in  having  him  learn  to  do  things  than  in  securing  financial 
compensation. 

Honor  also  to  the  man  who'  took  nis  boy  to  a  ranchman,  a  man 
who  was  a  financial  success,  who  had  flocks  and  herds  and  fields, 
fields  of  grain  and  fields  of  hay,  and  said:  "I  would  like  to  have 
you  take  my  boy  and  train  him  to  do  things.  I  am  not  concerned 
whether  you  pay  him  anything  or  not,  but  I  want  you  to  teach  him 
to  work." 

I  had  a  little  pamphlet  put  in  my  hands  the  other  day,  and  in  it 
is  a  story  something  like  this:  ("It  is  up  to  You,"  by  Parlette.) 
A  newspaper  man  in  a  paper  mill  was  watching  the  operations  of  a 
machine  with  interest,  when  along  came  a  man  with  an  oil  can,  squirt- 
ing oil  into  the  squirt  holes  in  the  side  of  the  machine.  He  asked 
that  man  a  few  questions  that  he  answered  fairly  well.    Then  he 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


asked  something  about  the  process  going  on  in  the  next  room,  and 
the  man  replied :  "J  don't  know  nothing  about  it,  boss,  I  haven't 
worked  there."  So  he  said  he  asked  him  another  process  and  the 
answer  came  the  same :  "I  don't  know  nothing  about  it,  boss,  I 
haven't  worked  there."  He  asked  him  a  question  about  the  pulp 
mill:  "I  don't  know  nothing  about  it,  boss,  I  have  never  worked 
there."  He  asked  him  a  question  about  the  office,  the  number  of 
people  employed  in  the  plant :  "I  don't  know  nothing  about  it,  boss, 
I  haven't  worked  there."  And  so  the  newspaper  man,  to  himself, 
said:    "Nobody  home." 

The  newspaper  man  asked :  "I  presume,  my  friend,  that  you  are 
new  in  this  plant?"  "No,  no,"  came  the  reply,  "I  have  been  squirt- 
ing oil  into  this  machine  now  for  twelve  years."  Twelve  years  and 
"don't  know  nothing"  about  any  other  part  of  the  institution.  He 
said:   "I  took  off  my  hat  in  the  presence  of  the  dead."  (Laughter.) 

As  he  was  leaving  he  asked  the  foreman:  "You  see  that  man 
standing  over  there  with  a  can  in  his  hand  ?  Is  he  a  human  being,  or 
do  you  just  wind  him  up?" 

A  STUPENDOUS  PIECE  OF  WORK  BEFORE  THE  SAINTS. 

The  appeal  I  make  to  you  is  for  the  training  of  the  hands,  the 
training  of  the  eyes,  the  training  of  the  ears,  the  training  of  the 
minds  of  the  young  people  in  the  Church.  We  have  before  us  to  be 
done  the  most  stupendous  piece  of  work  that  has  heen  given  to  any 
people,  that  is  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people.  This  cannot  be  done  by  our 
boys  alone.  It  will  take  men,  strong  men,  men  of  training,  men 
of  experience,  men  of  education,  men  of  brains.  The  Church  can  have 
in  it  a  great  army  of  such  strong  characters  only  by  training  our 
children  in  the  way  they  should  go.    The  Lord  bless  us  all,  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

When  the  British  General  with  his  army  entered  the  City  of 
Jerusalem  I  felt  that  the  time  of  the  Gentiles  was  very  close  to  being 
fulfilled.  At  my  request  the  choir  will  sing  a  song  written  by  a  con- 
verted Jew,  the  father  of  our  faithful  Latter-day  Saint  sister,  Sister 
Rebecca  Neibaur  Nibley — "Come  thou  glorious  day  of  promise!" 

By  special  request  the  choir  sang,  "Come,  thou  glorious  day 
of  promise,"  by  Neibaur. 

Come,  thou  glorious  day  of  promise, 

Come  and  spread  thy  cheerful  ray, 
When  the  scattered  sheep  of  Israel 

Shall  no  longer  go  astray; 
When  hosannas, 

With  united  voice  they'll  cry. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT.  107 


Lord,  how  long  wilt  Thou  be  angry; 

Shall  Thy  wrath  forever  burn? 
Rise,,  redeem  Thine  ancient  people, 

Their  transgressions  from  them  turn. 
King  of  Israel, 

Come  and  set  Thy  people  free. 

O,  that  soon  Thou  wouldst  to  Jacob, 

Thy  enlivening  Spirit  send! 
Of  their  unbelief  and  mis'ry 

Make,  O  Lord,  a  speedy  end. 
Lord,  Messiah! 

Prince  of  Peace  o'er  Israel  reign. 

Announcement  was  made  that  Elder  Ernest  W.  Wood,  and 
President  Lewis  W.  Shurtliff,  of  Weber  stake,  were  ill,  and  desired 
to  be  remembered  by  the  congregation  of  Saints,  and  they  were 
prayed  for  by  President  Daniel  Heiner,  who  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

The  meeting  was  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  at  10  o'clock,  Sunday  morning,  October  9,  1921. 
Elder  John  A.  Widstoe  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  presided.  The 
music  exercises  were  furnished  by  the  Cottonwood  ward  choir, 
Cottonwood  stake. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "For  the  strength  of  the 
hills,  we  bless  thee." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  E.  S.  Rolapp. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "ROuse,  O  ye  mortals." 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  may  not  be  in  the  great  taber- 
nacle, a  few  rods  away,  in  which  is  a  great  congregation  of  five 
or  six  thousand  people;  but  we  are  here  in  this  smaller  building  for 
the  same  purpose  as  are  those  in  the  larger  building,  and  we  are 
entitled  to  the  same  Spirit  and  should  enjoy  the  same  blessings. 
I  am  sure  we  shall  have  a  splendid  meeting  here  this  morning.  Pres- 
ident Grant  has  sent  us  some  faithful  brethren  to  speak  to  us,  and 
I  know  that  we  shall  have  the  Spirit  of  God  to  bless  and  to  comfort 
us  during  this  hour. 

A  TESTIMONY  FULL  OF  JOY. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  I  am  happy  to  belong  to  this 
great  people,  chosen  in  the  last  days  for  the  carrying  on  of  the 
purposes  of  the  Almighty.  I  delight  to  bear  my  testimony  that 
I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
divinely  ordained  and  set  apart  to  carry  out  the  great  latter- 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


day  work  that  was  planned  before  the  foundations  of  the  earth  were 
laid.  I  know  that  in  the  light  of  the  gospel,  man  may  walk  in 
happiness  and  in  enjoyment  throughout  this  life's  journey,  and 
ultimately,  when  we  shall  pass  through  the  great  veil,  we  may 
enjoy  exaltation  and  eternal  life  throughout  the  endless  ages.  This 
testimony  fills  my  heart  with  joy;  and  when,  on  a  morning  like 
this,  I  find  these  two  great  halls  crowded  to  their  capacities,  and 
yet  see  beyond  me  a  great  concourse  of  people  who  are  probably 
assembling  in  another  overflow  meeting,  I  praise  God  that  he  is 
blessing  us  so  abundantly. 

Who  would  have  thought,  in  1830,  when  a  handful  of  people 
assembled  to  organize  this  Church,  that  in  ninety  years  these 
thousands  of  people  would  assemble  in  these  valleys,  then  un- 
known to  the  civilized  world,  twice  a  year,  in  devotion  and  fidel- 
ity to  God.  My  experiences  on  this  land  and  in  other  countries 
have  demonstrated  to  me  that  a  sight  like  this  is  not  to  be  wit- 
nessed anywhere  else  on  the  face  of  the  earth.  Ten  thousand  people 
at  least,  I  imagine,  are  on  this  square  today,  with  the  common 
purpose  of  worshiping  their  God,  of  testifying  to  the  things  that 
I  have  been  testifying  to  you  here  this  morning.  And,  probably 
anyone  of  these  ten  thousand  could  stand  on  this  platform,  as  I 
do  now,  and  bear  his  living  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 

Some  years  ago  a  mother  with  her  children  was  standing 
near  the  statues'  of  Joseph  and  Hyrum  Smith  on  this  block.  They 
were  looking  at  the  conference  crowds.  One  of  the  children,  a 
girl  pretty  well  grown  into  young  womanhood,  felt  the  spirit 
that  we  feel  on  this  occasion,  and  she  said  to  her  mother:  "Mother, 
mother,  mother!  If  I  know  nothing  else  in  this  world,  I  know  that 
I  am  a  Latter-day  Saint.  I  want  to  live  with  this  people.  I  want 
to  die  with  this  people;  I  am*of  this  people."  That  is  how  we 
all  feel;  we  are  leaving  the  world  and  we  praise  the  Lord  for  it. 

Not  only  in  numbers  have  we  become  a  "marvelous  work 
and  a  wonder"  in  a  little  less  than  one  hundred  years ;  but  in  a 
greater  and  a  larger  sense  have  we  become  a  marvelous  people, 
for  we  have  impressed  our  thought  upon  the  whole  world.  The 
world  does  not  believe  today  as  it  did  ninety  years  ago.  A  few 
days  ago  I  picked  up  a  recent  number  of  a  great  magazine,  and 
my  feelings  were  roused  within  me  and  my  testimony  increased, 
when  I  found  one  of  the  writers  declaring  to  the  readers  of  the 
magazine  that  "God  cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree 
of  tolerance,"  borrowed  almost  word  for  word,  from  section  one 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  In  such  a  way  have  the  doctrines 
taught  by  the  despised  Latter-day  Saints  been  appropriated  by 
the  nations  of  the  earth ;  and  whether  the  people  of  the  earth  ac- 
cept the  inspiration  of  Joseph  Smith,  nevertheless,  in  fact,  the  whole 
current  of  human  thought  has  been  changed  by  the  doctrines  of 
this  people.  That  is  perhaps  the  greatest  achievement  of  "Mor- 
monism"  during  the  last  ninety  years,  unless  it  be  the  achievement 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE. 


109 


to  secure  a  body  of  people  numbering  hundreds  of  thousands  who 
almost  always  see  eye  to  eye,  who  understand  as  with  one  mind, 
who  feel  as  with  one  heart,  who  worship  God  alike,  and  who  in 
that  united  worship  and  action  find  a  tremendous  advantage  in 
life.  Do  you  know  of  a  happier  people  than  we  are?  I  have  not 
found  a  happier  people.  I  find  happiness  wherever  I  go,  for  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  understand  the  truth.  They  have  seen  the  begin- 
ning and  they  know  the  end  of  the  designs  of  God  with  respect 
to  his  children.  They  do  not  grope  in  darkness.  Who  cares  if 
we  are  few  in  comparison  with  the  1500  millions  of  people  on  the 
face  of  the  earth?  We  are  as  yeast  in  the  dough,  and  will  yet 
ferment  the  whole  earth. 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  was  in  Canada,  where  I  spent  some  time 
with  people  not  of  our  faith.  One  afternoon  we  had  a  social  af- 
fair, which  ended  in  an  automobile  trip  over  some  interesting 
places  in  that  neighborhood.  By  my  side  sat  an  old  gentleman, 
who  was  the  man  who  drove  the  first  railway  train  over  the 
Canadian  Pacific  railroad  into  Vancouver.  He  told  the  story  of 
that  railroad ;  how  a  group  of  men  saw  a  vision  of  the  possibili- 
ties of  building  a  railroad  over  the  Canadian  mountains,  and  how, 
with  little  influence,  money  and  power,  they  formulated  a  plan 
to  build  from  ocean  to  ocean  a  great  continental  railroad  which 
would  open  up  to  humanity  the  great  Canadian  dominion.  This 
man  said :  "I  am  ashamed  to  tell  you  how  often  I  ran  trains  into 
Vancouver  without  a  single  passenger  on  them,  during  the  first 
few  years  of  the  history  of  that  railroad,"  and  he  said,  "when  we 
got  a  crowd  of  four  or  five  people  I  thought  the  railway  was  com- 
ing into  its  own.  One  day  we  had  7  passengers,  and  we  were  all 
jubilant  until  we  discovered  that  six  of  them  were  employees  of 
the  railway  and  traveled  on  passes."  That  was  about  a  genera-' 
tion  ago.  Today,  as  I  found,  one  almost  has  to  plead  for  a  seat  on 
the  trains  that  run  every  day  over  that  same  railroad.  Who  cares 
about  the  hard  beginning  and  the  empty  trains  when  the  end  can 
be  seen  from  the  beginning?  The  makers  of  the  Canadian  Pacific 
railway  saw  the  building  of  homes  and  schools  and  happy  families, 
the  growing  of  a  civilization  in  that  part  of  the  world,  so  what 
did  they  care  about  the  difficulties  and  modesty  of  the  beginning? 

MARVEL  OF  THE  SETTLEMENTS  IN  UTAH. 

You  also,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  saw  the  end  from  the 
beginning.  If  we  know  the  message  of  the  Prophet,  what  do 
we  care  about  the  hardships  or  the  modesty  of  our  beginning 
or  of  the  difficulties  of  today?  I  know  that  the  germs  of  per- 
manent greatness  lie  in  this  great  work;  and  I  am  content  and 
glad  and  grateful  to  have  been  born  into  the  world  in  this  age, 
tc  do  my  work;  even  if  some  one  after  me  must  have  the  joy 
of  realizing  even  more  completely  the  vision  of  the  past. 

Who  thought  when  we  came  to  the  mountains  in  1847  that. 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


we  could  build  here  an  empire?  E'ven  Brigham  Young,  led  by 
the  Spirit  of  God,  having  visions  by  night  and  by  day,  of  the 
future  of  his  people,  did  not  fully  comprehend  the  destiny  of 
this  people  when  established  in  this  once  arid  valley.  But  is 
it  not  wonderful  that  these  great  leaders  did  believe  and  trust 
in  God  as  they  did?  The  story  is  told  that  Brigham  Young  was 
met  by  the  trapper  Jim  Bridger,  who  came  to  the  Great  Basin 
about  1824  and  lived  here  for  a  quarter  of  a  century;  and  that 
he  said  to  Brigham  Young,  "I  have  spent  a  quarter  of  a  century 
in  the  Great  Basin,  and  I  can't  see  any  possibility  of  building 
a  state  on  these  barren  wastes.  I  doubt  if  grain  can  be  raised  in 
the  Salt  Lake  valley."  But  Brigham  Young,  taught  by  Almighty 
God,  said,  "You  who  have  spent  your  life  in  these  valleys  may 
come  to  me  with  these  conclusions ;  but  I  know  that  within  this 
great  American  desert  we  may  yet  build  homes  and  enjoy  prot 
perity  and  happiness,  and  fulfil  the  destiny  that  God  has  prom- 
ised his  people."  That  is  the  difference  between  the  inspiration 
of  God  and  the  judgment  of  men! 

ALL  LIFE  WAITS  ON  US. 

We  are  a  small  people  in  the  eyes  of  the  world ;  but  we  have 
an  understanding  of  the  purposes  of  God,  and  the  gift  of  the 
priesthood  and  the  authority  to  act  for  God  in  the  accomplish- 
ment of  his  will.  The  living  and  the  dead  are  depending  upon 
us  ,  for  the  truth  and  the  power  of  salvation.  The  living  must  hear 
our  message;  and  the  dead  are  waiting  for  us  to  open  the  doors 
through  which  they  may  go  on  to  a  greater  life  in  the  great 
hereafter.  All  life  waits  upon  us  and  our  actions  for  the  ful- 
filment of  the  prophecies  of  holy  men  and  the  promises  of  God. 
I  feel  tremendously  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  me  as  a 
member  of  this  Church,  having  all  this  knowledge,  having  all 
this  authority,  having  all  these  things  placed  before  me  to  do.  God 
grant  that  I  may  do  all  that  God  desires  me  to  do,  that  I  may  not  fail 
on  account  of  any  hesitancy  on  my  part. 

I  pray  that  God  may  give  us  a  full  conception  of  the  mean- 
ing of  this  great  Latter-day  work,  and  give  us  strength  from  day 
to  day  to  enter  into  partnership  with  him  to  accomplish  the 
great  work  that  he  insists  shall  be  done  for  the  human  race  in  this 
great  stage  of  our  existence,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ARNOLD  G.  MILLER 

ale  President  of  the  Australian  Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon 
me  at  this  time,  and  my  heart  is  fluttering,  perhaps,  as  is  general 
when  I  have  been  called  upon  to  face  a  congregation. 


ELDER  ARNOLD  G.  MILLER. 


Ill 


I  have  recently  returned  from  the  Australian  Mission,  about 
seven  months  ago.  I  want  to  say  of  the  Australian  people  that 
they  are  not  in  general  a  religious  people.  They  are  hospitable  and 
among  them  many  intelligent  people.  Among  those  who  have  been  con- 
verted to  the  faith  we  can  find  as  fine  people,  perhaps,  as  any  that 
may  be  found.  Among  the  elders  who  labored  with  me,  there  could  be 
no  finer  young  people  anywhere  than  those  young  men  were.  Remem- 
ber we  were  laboring  under  very  difficult  circumstances  at  the  time. 
The  world's  war  was  one,  when  it  was  impossible  to  get  elders 
from  Zion  to  fill  our  ranks  where  they  were  depleted  as  our  elders 
were  sent  home.  They  left  us  with  very  few  to  carry  on  the  work  in 
that  far-off  land. 

Perhaps  the  idea  prevails  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  the 
people  of  Australia  were  against  the  "Mormon"  people;  in  other 
words,  that  they  had  formulated  laws  against  them.  But  this  is  not 
the  case.  I  wish  to  defend  that  people.  There  was  ai  rule  passed  by  the 
British  counsel,  at  the  time  they  were  engaged  in  that  great  struggle, 
that  there  should  be  no  foreigners  sent  into  the  colonies  during  the 
prevalence  of  war.  I  was  under  the  impression  that  the  people  there 
were  compelling  our  people  to  keep  away  from  that  land.  But  as 
I  put  it  up  to  the  American  consul  there,  he  gave  me  to  understand 
differently.  I  got  a  letter  to  the  Secretary  for  the  Colonies  there, 
at  Melbourne,  and  when  I  went  to  him  and  asked  him  why  they  were 
discriminating  against  the  American  citizens,  he  said  they  were  not, 
that  there  were  no  laws  passed  by  them  against  us ;  it  was  simply  a 
rule  passed  for  self-protection  by  the  parent  government.  I  saw  very 
readily  that  they  were  right  in  doing  this,  because  in  the  early  stages 
of  the  war  people  were  sent  out  in  the  guise  of  missionaries,  and  they 
were  stirring  up  revolt  among  the  nations,  especially  in  India,  and 
I  commended  them  on  the  position  they  took.  But  that  did  not  al- 
leviate our  situation.  We  finally  got  an  order  passed  by  which  the 
British  officer  at  Washington  was  directed  to  vise  the  passports  of 
men  from  this  country.  And  finding  that  we  had  lost  so  many  men 
from  our  ranks,  they  allowed  us  to  send  so  many  more.  And  then  we 
found  that  our  government  had  proscribed  men,  so  it  left  us  with  very 
few  men  in  that  field.  We  used  what  local  ability  we  could.  Fin- 
ally, when  the  armistice  was  signed  we  received  a  small  company  of 
men  to  relieve  the  situation,  but  for  a  long  time  we  had  twelve  men 
only  in  that  great  country  having  an  area  larger  than  the  United 
States,  and  we  did  the  best  we  could  under  those  conditions. 

In  coming  in  contact  with  the  Australian  parliamentarians,  men 
who  sat  at  the  head  of  the  government,  we  had  a  splendid  opportunity 
to  preach  the  gospel  of  the  Son  of  God.  The  question  would  be  asked 
by  the  men  to  whom  we  appealed,  "What  do  you  teach  our  people? 
AVhat  are  your  practices?  What,  is  your  policy  as  far  as  emigration  is 
concerned?"  All  of  these  things  are  vital  questions  to  the  Australian 
people.  They  wanted  to  know  what  we  were  teaching,  and  they  got 


3 12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


an  opportunity  to  learn  what  we  believed  as  to  a  personal  God.  We  be- 
lieve in  God  as  a  personal  being,  and  in  Jesus  Christ  as  another  per- 
sonal being.  We  believe  in  the  Holy  Ghost  as  a  personage  of  spirit, 
these  constituting  the  Godhead.  We  also  believe  in  the  doctrine  that 
Jesus  came  and  atoned  for  the  original  transgression,  of  man,  and  that 
through  him  and  by  him  all  will  be  resurrected  from  the  grave.  We 
believe  that  as  individuals,  we  will  have  to,  give  an  account  of  our  ac- 
tions here  upon  the  earth,  and  that  we  will  pay  the  penalty  for  our 
transgressions.  But  we  believe  that  somewhere,  sometime  in  the  great 
beyond,  there  will  be  a  time  when  the  gospel  will  be  preached  to 
all  people,  whether  in  this  mortal  life  or  behind  the  veil,  when  all  will 
have  an  opportunity  to  hear,  and  to  have  a  place  in  the  kingdom  of 
God.  Again,  we  teach  our  people  that  they  are  to  be  subject  to  kings, 
presidents,  magistrates,  -etc.,  and  obey  and  sustain  the  law,  and  that 
our  policy  was  at  that  time,  knowing  the  opportunity  there  for  colon- 
ization and  for  building  up  of  institutions  for  the  betterment  of  that 
people  there.  We  had  a  splendid  opportunity;  we  reached  the  chief 
men  in  th?  c  republic  to  tell  them  what  we  believe.  We  even  reached 
Plon.  William  Hughes,  who  was  at  the  head  there,  and  I  told  him 
these  things.  He  listened  very  attentively.  "Well,  "  he  said,  "it  seems 
to  me  that  we  ought  not  to  bar  your  people,  nor  bar  your  elders 
from  coming  into  this  land."  We  told  him  what  we  had  done  for  the 
"flu"  there.  We  had  this  scourge  very  severely  in  Melbourne.  In 
Sydney  it  was  not  quite  so  bad,  where  I  was.  But  one  of  our  elders 
who  was  at  Melbourne  visited  the  homes  of  some  sixty  people,  and 
administered  spiritual  and  temporal  comfort,  in  connection  with  his 
associates.  There  was  one  local  elder  at  one  of  the  hospitals  who  was 
in  a  dying  condition,  and  as  far  as  any  mortal  aid  was  concerned  he 
bad  passed  by  the  portals  of  this  earth,  so  to  speak,  and  was  enter- 
ing into  the  great  unknown.  The  elder  procured  a  permit,  and  was 
permitted  to  visit  the  man  and  stay  with  him,  which  he  did  day  after 
day,  until  the  sick  man  was  finally  put  on  his  feet,  and  today  that 
man  stands  as  a  living  witness  of  raising  the  dead  in  these  last  days. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  miracles  have  not  ceased.  I  have  seen  them 
in  numbers  of  instances  where  I  have  labored,  where  the  sick  have 
been  healed,  and  the  barren  have  been  made  fruitful,  and  many 
other  wonderful  things  done  by  the  power  of  God.  I  have  seen  the 
power  of  God  made  manifest  in  the  lives  of  those  who  have  faith  in 
the  blessings  of  the  gospel. 

I  know  that  the  gospel  is  true.  God  burned  that  into  my  being 
in  my  youthful  days ;  and  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of 
God.  I  have  said  to  some  men  whom  I  have  met:  you  may  look, 
perhaps  some  of  you  may  sneer  at  our  child-like  faith;  but  I  thank 
God  for  that  child-like  faith.  We  cannot  help  what  we  believe  in,  be- 
cause God  has  revealed  it  to  us  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Once  upon  a  time,  when  I  was  talking  with  one  of  these  men, 
when  it  was  reported  that  some  of  our  elders  had  been  accused  of 


ELDER  ARNOLD  G.  MILLER. 


113 


taking  their  women  out  of  that  country,  as  they  thought,  that  man 
said  to  me:  "Do  you  affiliate  with  other  churches?"  I  said,  "Oh,  no, 
they  will  not  have  us  fellows ;  we  are  too  tangible ;  we  preach,  per- 
haps, a  different  doctrine."  "But,"  he  said,  "Isn't  your  faith  the 
same  as  preached  by  the  world  in  general?"  I  said  I  did  not  know 
but  it  was.  I  said,  there  is  a  difference,  though.  I  picked  up  a  book 
and  I  said,  we  open  the  scriptures  and  we  believe  the  things  that  are 
written  in  the  book,  and  we  try  to  keep  our,  lives  in  accordance  there- 
with. Your  people  believe  the  book  when  it  is  closed.  You  are  believ- 
ing the  traditions  of  men.  Here,  let  us  take  up  some  of  the  very 
principles  that  we  believe  in.  We  believe  that  Jesus  Christ  came  upon 
the  earth  to  atone  for  the  transgression  of  our  first  parents,  Adam 
and  Eve.  But  let  us  not  put  it  "transgression,"  it  was  a  preconceived 
plan.  There  was  something  to  be  gained.  But  for  the  action  called 
the  transgression  of  our  first  parents,  we  would  never  have  been  here. 
We  would  have  been  ever  in  the  spirit  world :  but  inasmuch  as  death 
came  upon  our  first  parents,  and  we  were  all  subject  to  death  and 
dissolution,  the  spirit  will  have  a  body;  that  it  became  necessary  that 
we  should  be  redeemed  from  the  condition  of  mortality  that  we  were 
placed  in,  and  that  through  the  redemption  all  men  would  be  res- 
urrected from  the  dead.  I  said  to  those  gentlemen:  1  am  convinced 
of  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  have  been  time  and  time  again  over  the 
whole  territory  of  Australia,  including  Tasmania ;  I  have  labored 
some  in  New  Zealand,  and  I  have  visited  also  the  Samoan,  the  Sand- 
wich Islands  and  others  as  a  humble  elder  of  the  Church  of  Christ, 
and  going  from  house  to  house  and  from  hamlet  to  hamlet,  preaching 
the  truth,  and  I  have  found  very  few  who  believed  actually  in  the 
resurrection  of  the  dead. 

To  us  in  Zion  it  is  a  bold  statement,  but  it.  is  a  fact,  very  few 
people  of  the  world  believe  in  the  resurrection  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Now,  I  believe  that  Jesus  Christ  came,  that  he  fulfilled  the 
predictions  of  the  ancient  prophets,  particularly  Isaiah,  that  he  would 
be  lifted  up  and  would  be  slain  for  the  sins  of  the  world.  He  came 
and  fulfilled  these  predictions,  and  as  a  result,  all  mankind  will  have 
the  benefit  of  that  great  gift  that  he  bestowed  upon  us. 

But  aside  from  that,  the  time  and  place  of  resurrection,  which 
will  come  to  every  son  and  daughter  of  man,  will  be  according  to  our 
fitness.  The  Apostle  Paul  said  that  every  man  would  be  resurrected 
in  his  own  order,  Jesus  Christ  being  the  first  fruits  of  the  resurrec- 
tion. I  have  taken  up  a  labor  with  them,  showing  what  is  shown  in 
the  scriptures,  and  showing  that  their  spiritual  heads  ignored  these 
very  things. 

We  have  talked  sometimes  on  the  resurrection,  and  shown  them 
plainly  that  Jesus  was  crucified,  and  his  body  laid  in  a  tomb,  and  that 
a  guard  was  placed  over  his  body  for  fear  that  something  might  hap- 
pen to  give  the  diciples  of  Jesus  a  chance  to  claim  that  he  had  proph- 
esied truly  that  he  would  rise  again.  The  Jews  went  to  the  Roman 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


governor  and  they  begged  that  there  might  be  a  guard  placed  over  the 
remains  of  Jesus,  that  no  such  thing  as  this  might  take  place;  and 
on  the  third  morning,  before  itj  was  light,  there  was  a  wonderful  con- 
vulsion of  nature,  and  the  Roman  guards  became  frightened,  and  they 
left  the  place,  you  know  in  those  times  it  meant  death  to  a  Roman  sol- 
dier to  leave  his  guard.  Now,  it  is  not  likely  that  those  men  left  that 
place  in  the  night,  as  those  men  thought  might  have  been  the  case ; 
hut  something  came  that  probably  frightened  those  men  almost  to 
death ;  and  early  in  the  morning  one  of  Jesus'-  followers  who  had  been 
greatly  benefited  by  Jesus,  in  having  had  evil  spirits  cast  out  of  her, 
came  to  the  sepulchre,  and  there  Mary  found  the  stone  rolled  away ;  and 
then  she  departed  and  went  to  the  house  of  Peter  and  John,  and  she 
apprised  them  of  the  fact-  and  they  ran  to  the  sepulchre.  John  out- 
ran Peter,  and  arrived  first^  but  when  Peter  came,  he  bolted  into  the 
sepulchre,  impetuous  as  he  was,  and  found  the  linen  cloth  or  napkin 
lying  at  the  foot  of  the  sepulchre  ;  but  Jesus'  body  was  not  there.  Now 
what  took  place  at  that  time?  Just  the  fulfilment  of  the  promise 
Jesus  had  made  them,  that  he  would  come  forth.  They  discovered 
then  the  things  that  they  had  an  idea  of,  but  not  a  present  knowl- 
edge. They  discovered  then  the  reality  of  the  resurrection  of  the  Son 
of  God.  They  had  perhaps  looked  upon  him  as  an  advanced  teacher, 
something  like  Confucius,  Mohammed'  and  other  great  teachers  in 
the  world,  but  perhaps  had  never  realized  the  tangibility  of  a  resur- 
rection. Alary  came  back,  and  as  she  was  weeping,  she  looked  upon 
the  sepulchre  and  she  saw  two  angels  dressed  in  white,  one  sitting  at 
the  foot  and  the  other  at  the  head,  where  Jesus  had  lain,  and  they 
accosted  her  in  these  words:  "Woman,  why  weepest  thou?"  She  said, 
"Because  they  have  taken  away  my  Lord  and  I  know  not  where  they 
have  laid  him."  An4  as  she  was  turning  she  saw  Jesus  standing,  but 
knew  not  that  it  was  Jesus.  And  he  said,  "Woman,  whom  seekest  thou  ?" 
And  she  said,  supposing  him  to  be  the  gardener,  "Because  they  have 
taken  away  my  Lord  and  I  know  not  where  they  have  laid  him ;  if 
thou  hast  borne  him  hence,  tell  me  where  thou  hast  laid  him,  and  I 
will  take  him  away."  And  then,  as  Jesus  turned  facing  the  woman,  he 
said :  "Mary,"  and  she  recognized  him  and  was  convinced,  and  in  the 
excitement  she  went  to  embrace  him,  but  he  said,  "Touch  me  not, 
for  I  am  not  yet  ascended  to  my  Father,  but  go  to  my  brethren  and 
say  unto  them,  I  ascend  unto  my  Father,  and  your  Father,  and  to  my 
God,  and  your  God." 

Now,  in  talking  upon  this  proposition  at  one  time,  a  man  claim- 
ing to  be  a  linguist  said,  I  want  to  give  you  the  right  rendition  of 
"touch  me  not."  He  said  it  meant  "don't  detain  me."  It  sounds  better 
to  me.  But,  however,  Mary  was  an  ambassador  at  this  particular  time. 
You  remember,  Mary  went  to  the  disciples  and  told  them  he  had 
gone  to  his  Father.  Now,  many  manifestations  took  place  at  that 
particular  day.  But  there  was  gathered  together  a  little  knot  of  these 
people.  They  were  discussing  the  wonderful  things  that  had  taken 


ELDER  ARNOLD  G.  MILLER. 


115 


place,  and  at  that  particular  time  Jesus  came  and  stood  in  the  midst 
of  them,  and  said,  "Peace  be  unto  you."  But  they  were  affrighted  and 
terrified,  thinking  they  had  seen  a  spirit.  That  is,  they  thought 
it  would  be  a  spiritual  resurrection,  not  a  tangible  one.  Jesus  accosted 
them,  knowing  the  fears  in  their  hearts,  saying :;  "Why  do  fears  arise 
in  your  hearts,  behold  my  hands  and  my  feet,  that  it  is  I,  myself." 
Then  he  stretched  forth  his  hands  before  them  and  said,  "Handle 
me  and  see ;  for  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones  as  ye  see 
me  have."  He  showed  them  his  hands  and  feet,  and  while  they 
believed  him  not  for  wonder  and  for  joy  he  said  unto  them, 
"Have  ye  any  meat?"  And  they  gave  him  a  piece  of  broiled  fish  and 
honey  comb  and  Jesus  ate  it  before  them.  Thus  Jesus  demonstrated 
to  those  people  that  he  was  tangible  and  real,  a  resurrected  being. 
Paul  says,  "We  do  not  know  how  we  will  appear,  but  we  will  appear 
like  unto  him."  He  says  further,  "If  we  have  been  buried  with  him  in 
baptism,  we  shall  be  like  him  in  the  resurrection  of  the  dead." 

.  In  discussing  this  subject  before  the  people,  we  have  found  people 
who  admit  that  inasmuch  as  Jesus'  body  had,  not  become  corrupted 
it  would  be  possible  to  accomplish  this  great  thing,  but  deny  the 
resurrection  of  the  body  after  it  has  gone  into  the  mother  earth. 
Then  we  bring  up  the  incident  of  his  providing  food  for  a  multitude 
of  people  in  four  or  five  loaves  and  a  few  little  fishes,  and  yet  after 
feeding  some  four  thousand  people,  they  had  twelve  basketfuls  re- 
maining. We  argue  the  point  to  the  people  of  the  world  set  forth 
in  the  first  chapter  of  John,  that  by  him  and  through  him  were  all 
created.  Now,  if  God  created  this  earth,  then  should  we  curtail  his 
power,  and  say  that  he  cannot  bring  back  the  elements  and  breathe 
into  them,  so  to  speak,  the  breath  of  life.  Another  scripture,  found  in 
Mathew,  27:  51,52.  "And  the  graves  were  opened,  and  many  of  the 
saints  who  had  slept  came  out  of  their  graves-  and  went  into  the  holy 
city  and  appeared  unto  many."  Here  is  an  evidence  of  one  of  the  apos- 
tles, who  perhaps  gave  up  his  life  for  the  testimony  that  he  gave  to 
the  world,  that  there  were  others  resurrected  after  the  resurrection  of 
Christ. 

Again,  now  nearly  one  hundred  years  ago,  on  the  Susquehanna 
river,  when  two  men  had  gone  out  to  pray  in  regard  to  baptism,  there 
came  a  personage  who  declared  he  was  John  the  Baptist  the  one  who 
baptized  Jesus  in  the  river  Jordan,  and  said:  "Upon  you  my  fellow 
servants  (as  he  laid  his  hands  upon  their  heads)  I  confer  the  Priest- 
hood of  Aaron,  which  has  the  keys  of  the  administration  of  angels 
and  of  baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins ;  and  this  will  not  be  taken 
from  the  earth  until  the  sons  of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  offering  in 
righteousness."  They  felt  his  hands  upon  their  heads.  John,  who 
had  been  taken  before  the  Master  was  slain,  he  had  been  resurrected 
from  the  dead. 

I  am  taking  up  too  much  time,  excuse  me.  Oh,  I  love  the  doc- 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


trines  that  are  contained  in  the  Bible.  I  love  to  ponder  over  the  reve- 
lations of  God  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

I  wish  to  say  to  the  young  people  that  there  is  no  myth  in  the 
resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  or  of  other  individuals.  I  like  to  proclaim 
unto  them  that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  aj  prophet  of  God.  That 
God  revealed  himself  unto  him,  because  of  the  prayer  of  faith  in  his 
early  manhood.  I  have  this  testimony,  too,  for  God  revealed  it  unto 
me  in  my  early  manhood.  I  was  sceptical,  was  worrying,-  I  had  my 
doubts  and  stragglings.  I  wanted  to  know  if  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  inspired  of  God ;  I  wanted  to  know  if  the  Book  of  Mormon 
was  true,  because  I  had  been  reading  it  and  pondering  its  pages,  and 
had  found  many  things  there  that  I  could  not  understand  because  they 
were  too  great  for  my  conception.  I  wanted  to  know  if  the  things  inci- 
dent to  the  establishment  of  this  great  latter-day  work  were  true. 
And  the  Spirit  of  God  came  upon  me  upon  a  desert  plain  where  I 
then  was,  and  it  filled  my  whole  being  with  a  living  fire,  it  radiated 
to  the  very  tips  of  my  fingers,  to  the  very  hairs  of  my  head,  and  I 
was  shown  these  things  that  I  could  not  understand  before ;  it  burned 
into  my  being  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  the 
Book  of  Mormon  is  true. 

I  would  like  to  follow  out  the  story  of  the  resurrection  at  some 
future  time.  I  pray  that  we  may  have  the  living  faith  that  our  fore- 
fathers had'  that  we  may  demonstrate  in  that  child-like,  living  faith 
the  purposes  of  our  Father,  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

A  baritone  solo  was  sung  by  Elder  Charles  R.  Pike. 

ELDER  OWEN  BENNION 

{President  of  the  Duchesne  Stake  of  Zion.) 

My  brethern  and  sisters,  I  have  a  great  prayer  in  my  heart  this 
morning.  It  is  that  those  of  us  who  occupy  the  time  may  do  so  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  those  who  listen  may 
have  that  same  inspiration,  that  each  one  of  us  may  be  able  to  gather 
from  the  speakers  such  encouragement  or  such  exhortation  or  advice 
as  may  be  best  fitted  to  our  present  needs. 

I  am  very  grateful  that  my  parents  received  the  gospel,  many 
years  ago,  in  the  Old  world,  and  that  I  was  permitted  to  be  their  son. 
I  have  great  sympathy  with  the  boys  and  the  girls  who  have  been 
reared  in  the  land  of  Zion.  I  have  a  great  appreciation  of  the  tempta- 
tions the  evil  one  places  in  their  way.  I  have  a  great  appreciation  of 
the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  them  to  set  examples  of  righteousness 
before  the  world,  and  take  advantage  of  the  opportunities  that  the 
Lord  has  given ;  and  I  beg  of  these  my  brethern  and  sisters  who  have 


ELDER  OWEN  BEN N ION. 


117 


been  so  situated  as  I  have,  whose  parents  have  left  the  old  world  and 
have  come  here  for  the  sake  of  the  gospel,  that  their  sons  and 
daughters  might  be  properly  trained,  and  that  they  might  be  the 
means  of  giving  the  light  of  the  gospel  to  the  world ;  I  hope  that  our 
heavenly  Father  will  give  them  a  sense  of  responsibility  that  rests 
Jupon  them  through  this  great  privilege  they  have.  Those  who  are 
present  who  have  received  the  gospel  themselves  in  the  Old  world 
have  been  under  great  responsibility,  and  they  have  come  to  this  land 
of  Zion.  They  have  come  because  of  the  testimony  that  perhaps  many 
of  their  former  associates  in  the  Old  countries  did  not  have  and 
perhaps  a  testimony  that  their  children  have  not  had  and  sometimes 
they  will  be  turned  aside  somewhat  by  the  actions  of  their  sons  and 
daughters.  I  hope  they  will  realize  that  the  evil  one  works  in  Zion 
as  well  as  out  of  Zion.  For  myself,  I  have  a  great  sympathy,  and  a 
great  understanding  for  the  Scandinavian  gentleman  who  said :  "If 
there  is  anything  that  is  not  good  for  me,  that  is  what  I  would  like; 
if  there  is  anything  that  I  ought  not  to  do,  that  is  what  I  want  to  do." 
The  evil  one  works  upon  those  in  responsibility  to  such  an  extent 
that  we  ought  to  have  charity  for  them.  I  have  had  in  my  mind  these 
men.  I  have  had  in  my  mind  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  the 
young  people,  and  I  would  like  to  say  to  the  fathers  and  mothers 
present,  it  seems  to  me  that  we  leave  too  much  responsibility  of  train- 
ing our  young  people  aright  to  our  heavenly  Father,  or  to  the  cir- 
cumstances around  them.  We  fail  to  realize  sufficiently  that  our 
heavenly  Father  does  work  through  us,  that  it  is  our  responsibility 
to  take  care  of  all  these  boys  and  girls ;  that  because  we  know  that 
the  gospel  is  true,  it  does  not  follow  that  they  know  it.  It  is  just  as 
necessary  that  the  spirit  of  that  gospel  should  come  to  them  as  it  was 
that  it  should  come  to  usw  They  have  to  know  for  themselves  that  the 
gospel  is  true  just  as  we  have  to,  and  just  as  our'  grand-parents  have  to, 
and  just  as  our  grand-children  will  have  to  know  it. 

We  sometimes  fail  to  realize  that  the  temptation  of  the  evil  one 
come  to  our  children  and  grand-children  as  well  as  they  come  to  us, 
and  it  is  our  responsibility  to  care  for  and  look  after  them.  It  is  our 
responsibility  to  see  that  from  the  time  of  their  baptism  they  are 
trained  in  righteousness,  truth,  and  charity.  The  mother  who  teaches 
the  little  ones  to  pray  must  take  care  to  see  them  grow  up  in  the 
truth,  that  they  may  follow  in  the  path  in  which  they  have  been 
started. 

I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  it  is  time  half  wasted,  if  we  stop 
there.  Even  though  there  comes  a  time  in  the  lives  of  the  young  people 
when  they  are  not  just  what  we  would  have  them  to  be,  when  the  right 
thing  comes  they  will  exhibit  the  influence  of  the  early  training  they 
have  received,  and  it  is  a  responsibility  that  devolves  upon  us,  fathers 
and  mothers,  to  give  them  that  teaching.  What  can  religion  class 
teachers  do  if  there  is  no  foundation  laid  in  the  boy  or  girl  of 
fourteen  years  of  age  brought  to  them?  The  familiarity  of  the 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I 


teachings  of  the  Sunday  School  leaders  and  the  leaders  of  the  religion 
classes  and  other  organizations  are  such  that  the  responsibility  of 
religious  training  rests  upon  us.  I  noticed  that  President  Widtsoe 
used  the  word  "entertainment,"  and  corrected  himself.  I  would  like 
to  say  that  there  is  too  much  of  an  idea  among  the  Latter-day  Saints 
that  we  have  to  be  entertained  at  all  times.  Our  religion  is  not  a 
matter  of  entertainment.  I  have  heard  men  and  women  complain  that 
they  cannot  get  their  boys  and  girls  to  go  to  meeting,  because  it  is 
not  entertaining.  You  know  what  the  Catholics  claim,  that  if  they 
have  the  child  until  it  is  nine  years  old  they  have  it  afterwards,  for 
the  rest  of  its  life.  Their  religion  is  not  entertaning.  I  have  seen  young 
men  and  women  and  old  men  and  women,  count  beads,  because  of 
the  training  they  had  when  they  were  children,  before  they  were 
nine  years  old. 

It  is  my  testimony  that  the  Lord  knew  what  he  was  talking 
about  when  he  said  the  Latter-day  Saints  should  teach  their  children 
the  gospel  before  they  are  eight  years  old,  and  when  he  says  that 
our  young  boys  should  become  deacons  and  teachers  at  a  certain 
age,  that  is  the  time  that  the  Priesthood  should  be  given  unto  them. 
The  same  time  and  the  same  opportunity  comes  but  once  in  a  life 
time. 

It  is  my  testimony  that  the  gospel  is  true,  that  while  we  may  fail, 
the  Lord  never  fails  in  his  promises.  I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  may  be  with  us,  that  we  may  live  our  religion  one  day  after 
another.  That  is  all  that  is  required.  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

A  solo  and  chorus,  "Calvary,"  was  sung  by  Lily  Bennion  and 
the  choir. 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 

(Assistant  Church  Historian) 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  I  have  enjoyed  this  meeting 
so  far,  and  in  the  remarks  I  shall  make  I  hope  I  may  be  blessed  with 
the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty.  And  while  I  do  not  desire  to  detract 
in  the  least  degree  from  the  gospel  discourses  and  the  practical  advice 
from  former  speakers,  to  which  we  have  listened,  yet  I  desire  to  add 
something  in  the  nature  of  testimony,  perhaps  out  of  the  ordinary 
way.  I  desire  to  do  this  with  a  view  to  strengthen  us  in  our  most 
holy  faith  and  make  us  understand  better  than  before,  if  possible, 
that  God  is  with  the  true  Latter-day  Saints  ' and  that  those  who  have 
enlisted  in  his  service  and  who  remain  faithful  and  true  to  the  whisper- 
ings of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  to  those  who  rule  in  the  midst  of  Israel, 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON. 


119 


will  always  be  in  the  right,  and  consequently  prosper,  while  those  who 
are  disobedient  and  rebellious  will  fail. 

I  have  lately  returned  from  a  special  mission  to  the  Republic  of 
Mexico  and  to  most  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  missions  in  the  United 
States,  during  which  I  have  traveled  about  20,000  miles  and  have  had 
occasion  to  visit  many  places  which  I  never  visited  before.  I  had 
already  visited  many  foreign  lands  and  nearly  all  the  foreign  mission- 
ary fields  of  the  Church,  but  it  so  happened  that  my  historical  labors 
in  the  United  States,  so  far  as  the  missions  here  are  concerned,  were 
left  until  the  last.  In  traveling  through  our  American  missions,  as  I 
have  now  done,  I  found  myself  repeatedly  standing  on  what  we  some- 
times term  "sacred  ground,"  because  the  places  seen  were  closely 
connected  with  the  early  scenes  of  the  Church,  and  I  was  brought 
face  to  face  with  many  things  of  a  historical  nature  which  I  did  not 
experience  on  my  travels  to  foreign  countries. 

There  are  two  things  which  deeply  impressed  me,  while  on  this 
special  mission — something  that  I  cannot  dismiss  from  my  mind 
upon  my  return  home.  One  of  these  is  the  predictions  contained  in 
the  Book  or  Mormon  concerning  the  Indians,  or  Lamanites,  the  aborig- 
ines of  this  western  hemisphere.  On  my  sojourn  in  the!  Eastern 
States  mission  I  had  occasion  to  stand  upon  the  hill  Cumorah,  as  I 
had  done  upon  two  former  occasions,  and  also  had  the  privilege  of 
spending  a  night  in  the  old  Smith  home,  near  Manchester,  western 
New  York,  where  the  angel  Moroni  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  that  memorable  night  between  September  21  and  22,  1823. 

I  have  always  been  interested  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  having 
read  it  over  and  over  again  since  I  was  a  boy,  and  while  visiting  old 
Mexico,  together  with  Prest.  Rev  L.  Pratt  and  others,  on  my  late 
mission,  I  began  to  study  with  greater  interest  than  ever  before  the 
predictions  contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  regarding  the  Lam- 
anites and  the  possible  fulfilment  of  these  predictions.  The  remnants 
of  the  house  of  Israel,  now  known  as  the  North  American  Indians, 
have  so  far  disappointed  us  to  a  certain  extent.  We  have  had  mis- 
sionaries among  the  Indians  since  the  beginning  of  1831,  and  some 
of  the  very  best  and  most  faithful  elders  in  the  Church  have  devoted 
the  principal  part  of  their  lives  endeavoring  to  learn  the  various 
languages  or  dialects  spoken  by  the  several  tribes  oi  Indians  in  the 
United  States.  But  after  all  their  efforts  in  that  regard  they  have 
only  been  able  to  reach  a  few  people,  and  their  labors  have  resulted 
in  bringing  a  still  smaller  number  of  Lamanites  to  a  knowledge  of 
the  truth,  and  of  those  who  have  been  baptized  quite  a  few  have  not 
been  faithful  to  their  covenants,  but  have  returned  to  their  old  habits 
and  uncivilized  ways  and  thus  rendered  the  Church  very  little 
assistance.  On  this  account  we  have  been  inclined  to  attach  but  very 
little  importance  to  our  Indian  missions,  or  even  to  the  mission  estab- 
lished many  years  ago  in  our  sister  republic  on  the  south,  the  Mexican 
mission.  For  compared  with  some  of  the  missions  among  white 
people  in  our  own  country,  and  in  foreign  lands,  the  fruits  or  results 
have  not  been  satisfactory.  In  view  of  these  facte,  some  of  us  have 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


been  led  to  query:  How  shall  the  predictions  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
regarding  the  Lamanites  be  fulfilled?  And  will  they  ever  become  a 
white  and  delightsome  people  and  assist  the  so-called  Gentiles  (who 
shall  be  converted,  to  build  up  Zion  and  establish  truth  and  right- 
eousness upon  the  earth?  Those  of  us,  however,  who  have  accepted  the 
Book  of  Mormon  as  an  ispired  record  will  not  concede  for  a  moment 
that  the  words  of  the  Lord  will  fail ;  hence,  we  naturally  extend  our 
vision  and  researches  to  other  tribes  of  Indians,  besides  these  once 
powerful  tribes  within  the  boundaries  of  the  United  States. 

We,  therefore  cast  a  glance  southward  into  old  Mexico  and  through 
the  great  countries  beyond — down  through  Central  America  and  South 
America,  where  there  are  millions  and  millions  of  Lamanites,  direct 
descendants  of  Father  Lehi.  We  read  with  mixed  feelings  of  sadness 
and  joy  about  the  Spaniards,  who  many  years  ago  conquered  the 
Aztecs  of  Mexico  and  the  powerful  tribes  in  South  America,  and  who 
compelled  the  natives,  at  the  point  of  the  sword,  to  abandon  their 
idols  and  paganism  and  accept  that  kind  of  Christianity  which  is  repre- 
sented by  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  We  deplore  the  methods  used 
to  bring  this  change  about ;  we  shall  always  sympathize  with  the  great 
Aztec  Chief  Montezuma  and  his  people,  when  we  read  of  the  tyranny 
and  oppression  practiced .  upon  them  by  Cortez  and  his  soldiers.  But 
there  is  one  redeeming  feature  connected  with  all  this  Spanish  warfare 
and  bloodshed.  The  conquerors  taught  the  inhabitants  of  Mexico,  Cen- 
tral America  and  South  America  the  Spanish  language,  which  language 
is  now  spoken  by  nearly  all  peoples  in  these  lands.  Consequently,  when 
our  elders  (at  the  present  time  are  sent  to  labor  in  the  Mexican  mission, 
and  they  succeed  in  learning  the  Spanish  language,  they  can  preach 
the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  many  millions.  This  fact  stands 
forth  in  great  contrast  to  the  activities  of  Jacob  Hamblin  and  others 
who  labored  as  Lamanite  missionaries  in  the  United  States,  who  could 
only  reach  a  few  small  tribes  after  studying  as  hard,  and  perhaps 
worked  harder  to  learn  a  local  Indian  dialect  thjan  our  missionaries 
do  in  learning  the  Spanish  language.  I  therefore  look  for  the  M'exican 
mission,  now  by  many  considered  of  but  little  importance,  to  flourish 
by  and  by,  and  become  one  of  the  best  and  most  important  missions 
of  the  Church,  and  I  would  further  suggest  that  whenever  the  time 
comes  that  these  Lamanites  in  the  south  shall  embrace  the  Gospel, 
there  will  be  a  sufficient  number  .of  them  to  fulfil  every  prediction 
contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  concerning  the  Lamanites,  and 
justify  every  expectation  that  we  have  had  in  regard  to  the  help  which 
these  remnants  of  the  house  of  Israel  shall  render  in  building  up  Zion 
in  these  last  days.  I  desire  to  present  this  matter  to  you  as  my  testimony 
and  my  faith  in  all  that  God  has  ever  spoken  through  the  mouths  of 
his  holy  prophets.  Heaven  and  earth  may  pass  awav,  but  not  one  jot 
or  tittle  of  that  which  God  has  spoken  will  ever  fail.  Every  word  of 
prophecy  contained  in  the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  perhaps  many  others 
not  contained  in  these  four  standard  works  of  the  Church,  will  surely 
be  fulfilled  in  the  own  due  time  of  the  Lord. 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 


121 


The  other  matters,  which  attracted  my  attention  and  created  special 
interest  in  my  mind,  while  traveling  recently  in  the  United  States,  were 
certain  facts  connected  with  the  several  factions  of  apostate  organiza- 
tions which  have  broken  away  from  the  Church  since  it  was  first 
organized,  a  departure  from  the  true  order  of  the  Church  commenced 
almost  immediately  after  Joseph  Smith  began  his  divine  mission  upon 
the  earth.  Ever  since  that  great  Anglo-Saxon  Prophet  began  to  receive 
glorious  visions,  converse  with  angels  and  obtain  the  gifts  of  transla- 
tion, the  devil  has  tried  to  counterfeit  everything  the  Lord  has  done, 
and  that,  too,  with  considerable  success,  by  deceiving  people  through 
impostors  or  tools  who  were  willing  to  be  used  for  that  purpose. 
Through  these  emissaries  the  evil  one  has  attempted  to  confuse  the 
minds  of  mankind  by  introducing  into  the  world  through  his  agency 
and  inspiration  all  kinds  of  imitations  to  deceive  the  very  elect,  if 
possible.  Thus,  if  a  servant  of  the  Lord  prophesied  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord,  the  devil  would  do  the  same  thing  and  claim  that  he  also  did 
it  by  the  power  of  God,  when  in  reality  it  was  inspired  by  the  powers 
of  darkness  and  deception, 

Soon  after  Joseph  had  received  the  gift  of  translating  sacred  re- 
cords by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  other  men  were  influenced  to 
translate  by  soma,  power  which  they  themselves  perhaps  did  not  under- 
stand, and  while  some  of  these  efforts  seemed  at  first  to  be  somewhat 
successful  time  proved  them  all  to  be  failures.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
in  his  history  records  as  early  as  September,  1830,  that  Hiram  Page, 
one  of  the  Eight  Witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  had  in  his  posses- 
sion a  certain  stone  by  which  he  obtained  certain  revelations  concerning 
the  upbuilding  of  Zion,  the  order  of  the  Church,  etc.,  all  of  which  were 
entirely  at  variance  with  the  order  of  God's  house,  as  laid  down  in  the 
New  Testament,  as  well  as  in  modern  revelation.  The  Whitmer  family 
and  Oliver  Cowdery  were  among  those  who  believed  in  some  things 
brought  forth  through  this  stone.  So  Joseph,  the  Prophet,  enquired  of 
the  Lord  and  received  the  revelation  which  constitutes  the  28th  section 
of  the  new  edition  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  And  at  a  confer- 
ence held  soon  afterwards  Bro.  Page,  as  well  as  all  members  of  the 
Church  who  were  present  renounced  the  said  stone  and  all  things 
connected  with  it. 

In  February,  1831,  a  woman,  who  professed  to  be  a  prophetess  of 
the  Lord  and  who  believed  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  be  true,  made 
"pretentions  of  revealing  commandments,  laws  and  other  curious  mat- 
ters," so  it  became  necessary  for  the  Prophet  once  more  to  enquire  of 
the  Lord  and  in  answer  the  43rd  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
was  given,  in  which  the  Lord  plainly  said  ttjat  "there  is  none  other 
was  given  unto  you  to  receive  commandments  and  revelations  until 
he  [Joseph  Smith]  be  taken,  if  he  abide  in  me,"  etc. 

Soon  afterwards,  when  the  Saints  began  to  congregate  in  Ohio  and 
there  became  quite  numerous,  they  were  blessed  with  many  of  the  gifts 
and  powers  of  the  gospel ;  but  almost  at  the  same  time,  according  to 
the  statement  of  Parley  P  Pratt,  "some  very  strange  spiritual  opera* 
tions  were  manifested,  which  were  disgusting,  rather  than  edifying. 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Some  persona  would  seem,1  to  swoon  aw&y  and  make  unseemly  gestures 
and  be  drawn  and  disfigured  in  their  countenances.  Others  would  go 
into  ecstasy  and  be  drawn  into  contortions,  cramp,  fits,  etc. ;  others 
would  seem  to  have  visions  and  revelations  which  were  not  edifying 
and  which  were  not  congenial  to  the  doctrine  and  spirit  of  the  Gospel; 
in  short  a  false  and  lying  spirit  seemed  to  be  creeping  into  the  Church." 
The  question  was  referred  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  who  enquired  of  the 
Lord,  the  result  being  a  revelation  given  in  May,  1831,  in  which  the 
Lord  explains  the  difference  between  the  manifestations  of  the  power 
of  God  and  the  manifestations  of  the  power  of  evil.  (See  Doc.  &  Cov. 
Sec.  SO) 

According  to  the  historian,  Geo.  A.  Smith,  the  first  attempt  to 
establish  an  apostate  Church,  was  made  by  one  Wycam  Clark,  in 
Kirtland,  Ohio.  This  Mr.  Clark  was  baptized  about  the  same  time  as 
Sidney  Rigdon  and,  in  company  with  Northrop  Sweet  and  four  others, 
seceded  from  the  Church  and  said  they  would  carry  the  whole  world 
with  them  by  preaching  "Mormon"  principles.  They  had  two  or  three 
meetings  and  then  the  society  broke  up. 

Geo.  A.  Smith  also  says :  "Another  species  of  apostasy  took  place 
in  the  neighborhood  of  the  forge  at  Kirtland.  A  man  named  Hoten 
seceded  from  the  Church,  denounced  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the 
Prophet  and  established  himself  under  the  name  of  the  Independent 
Church.  A  man  named  Montague  was  made  bishop.  This  church  got 
to  number  about  ten  members.  They  pretended  under  the  order  of 
the  New  Testament  to  have  all  things  in  common.  In  a  few  weeks  the 
bishop,  who'  had  charge  of  the  temporal  things,  made  a  charge  on  the 
president  for  visiting  his  pork  barrel,  and  the  president  charged  the 
bishop  with  visiting  his  wife,  and  that  broke  up  the  society."  (See 
Deseret  News,  Vol  7,  page  364). 

Bro.  Smith  also  mentions  a  man  by  the  name  of  Hawley,  who  was 
attacked  by  a  spirit  of  revelation,  somewhere  in  the  state  of  New 
York,  while  he  was  plowing,  and  it  took  him  in  such  a  hurry  that  he 
h(ad  no  time  to  put  on  his  boots,  but  traveled  barefoot  to  Kirtland,  some 
600  miles  distant,  to  warn  Joseph  that  he  was  a  fallen  prophet,  that 
God  had  cut  Joseph  off  and  placed  in  his  stead  a  man  by  the  name  of 
Noah,  and  the  reason  why  Joseph  was  cut  off  was  that  he  had  suffered 
the  men  belonging  to  the  Church  to  wear  cushions  on  their  coat  sleeves 
and  the  women  to  wear  caps.  He  went  through  the  streets  of  Kirtland 
with  a  dismal  howl,  crying:  "Woe,  woe,  to  the  people."  On  one 
occasion,  about  midnight,  Brigham  Young  went  out  and  took  with  him 
a  cowhide  and  said  to  Hawley:  "If  you  don't  quit  annoying  the  people 
with  your,  noise,  I'll  cowhide  you."  Mr.  Hawley  then  considered  that 
he  had  suffered  persecution  enough  for  his  Master's  sake  and  shup  up 
his  noise. 

After  the  selection  of  the  first  quorum  of  Twelve  apostles,  in 
1835,  and  after  the  dedication  of  the  Kirtland  temple,  the  spirit  of 
apostasy  became  more  general,  and  one  of  the  First  Presidency,  several 
of  the  apostles,  and  other  prominent  men  in  the  Church,  were  all 
carried  away  in  this  apostasy;  and  one  of  their  number,  namely, 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON. 


123 


Warren  Parrish,  who  had  been  a  traveling  missionary  in  the  Church 
in  the  Southern  States,  and  known  as  an  eloquent  preacher,  undertook 
to  organize  those  elements  into  &  Church.  They  were  going  to  renounce 
the  Book  of  Mormon  and  Joseph  Smith  and  take  the  "Mormon" 
doctrines  to  overthrow  all  the  religions  of  the  world  and  unite  all 
the  Christians  into  one  great  religious  band — they  to  be  its  great  leaders. 
This  apostasy  took  place  in  1837  and  1838.  When  Heber  C.  Kimball, 
while  filling  a  mission  in  1844,  was  crossing  Fox  River  on  a  ferry, 
he  encountered  Warren  Parrish  as  a  grave-looking  man — a  strait- 
jacketed  fellow,  dressed  in  black,  with  a  white  handkerchief  ground 
his  neck.  He  spoke  to  Elder  Kimball,  slaying:  "Elder  Kimball,  will 
you  have  the  goodness  not  to  say  to  the  people  here  that  I  was  a 
'Mormon !'  I  am  a  Baptist  minister  and  am  preaching  in  that  meeting- 
house at  a  salary  of  $500  a  year.  If  they  find  out  that  I  have  been  a 
'Mormon,'  it  would  hurt  my  influence  very  much  indeed."  The  question 
arises :  Where  was  the  big  church  he  had  tried  to  build  up.  He  had 
tried  pleading  law,  but  failed,  and  he  had  been  peddling  bogus  money, 
which  also  failed,  like  the  big  church  speculation.  George  A.  Smith 
in  explaining  the  origin  of  the  Warren  Parrish  movement  says : 
I  recollect  waking  up  late  one  evening  when  I  was  quite  a  young 
man  and  hearing  my  father  and  one  of  the  brethren  talk.  Being  a 
little  disposed  to  listen,  I  learned  that  there  had  been  considerable  of 
a  difficulty  between  Parrish  and  one  of  the  brethren.  This  was  when 
he  was  in  good  standing  in  the  Church.  He  had  been  too  kind  with 
the  brother's  wife.    Then  I  learned  the  commencement  of  his  apostasy. 

At  the  breaking  up  of  Far  West,  Mo.,  in  1838-39  Isaac  Russell, 
one  of  the  missionaries  who  first  brought  the  gospel  to  Great  Britain, 
undertook  to  lead  the  Saints  into  the  wilderness.  He  gathered  some 
twenty  followers,  but  did  not  succeed.  He  afterwards  suffered  much 
persecution  in  Missouri  and  died  in  Richmond  Sept.  25,  1844. 

David  Whitmer,  one  of  the  Three  Witnesses  to  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  like  all  the  witnesses  to  that  sacred  record,  remained  faith- 
ful to  his  testimony  regarding  the  Book  of  Mormon,  but  otherwise 
he  fell  into  darkness  and  allowed  himself  to  be  influenced  by  a 
number  of  apostate  leaders,  such  as  James  J.  Strang,  and  later  Wm, 
E.  McLellin.  And  when  he  became  an  old  man,  he  undertook  to 
organize  a  church  of  his  own,  claiming  that  inasmuch  as  he  had 
been  ordained  and  set  apart  by  Joseph  Smith  to  preside  over  a  stake 
of  Zion  organized  in  Clay  county,  Mo.,  in  1834,  he  had  as  much 
authority  as  the  Prophet  himself.  He  obtained  a  few  followers  in 
Missouri,  but  not  enough  to  make  a  complete  church  organization. 
He  presided  over  his  little  church  until  he  died  in  1888,  and  when 
I  visited  Richmond,  a  few  months  later,  his  nephew  John  C.  Whi+mer, 
a  son  of  Jacob  Whitmer,  had  succeeded  him  as  president  of  the 
Whitmerite  faction.  There  is  a  very  small  remnant  of  that  church 
left  yet. 

Mr.  Francis  Gladden  Bishop,  commonly  known  as  Gladden  Bish- 
op, and  his  brother  I.  H.  Bishop,  also  started  ^  church  of  their  own, 
which  became  known  as  "Gladden  Bishopites."    Mr.  Bishop  believed 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  the  valley  of  the  Colorado  was  the  place  of  refuge  for  the 
Saints  at  the  time  they  were  expelled  from  Nauvoo.  He  had  joined 
the  true  Church  in  1832,  (and  after  being  ordained  an  elder  did  con- 
siderable missionary  work  for  the  Church ;  but  he  fell  into  darkness, 
and,  under  the  influence  of  a  delusive  spirit,  he  organized  a  new 
church,  as  stated.  He  was  on  trial  as  early  as  1842  before  the  High 
Council  at  Nauvoo  (Joseph  the  Prophet  being  present)  on  complaint 
of  having  received,  written  and  published  or  taught  certain  revelations 
and  doctrines  not  consistent  with  the  doctrines  and  covenants  of  the 
Church.  At  first  Mr.  Bishop  refused  to  present  the  written  revela- 
tion, but  finally  read  portions  of  it  to  the  council.  The  purported 
revelation  appeared  to  be  the  extreme  of  folly,  nonsense,  absurdity, 
falsehood  and  bombastic  egotism.  Joseph  the  Prophet  explained  the 
nature  of  the  case  and  gave  a  very  clear  elucidation  of  the  tendency 
of  such  prophets  and  prophesying,  and  then  delivered  Mr.  Bishop 
over  to  the  bufferings  of  Satan  until  he  shoidd  learn  wisdom.  The 
council  then  disfellowshiped  Mr.  Bishop.  It  was  after  that  that  he 
organized  a  church  of  his  own. 

Oliver  Olney,  who  joined  the  Church  at  an  early  day  and  had 
presided  over  the  Teachers  in  Kirtland  was  disfellowshiped  in 
Nauvoo,  111.,  by  the  High  Council  of  that  place  for  setting  himself 
up  as  a  prophet.  Later  (Feb.  10,  1843)  Oliver  Olney  was  tried  before 
a  court  in  Nauvoo  for  stealing  goods.  He  declared  before  the 
court  that  he  had  been  visited  many  times  by  the  Ancient  of  Days, 
that  he  had  a  mission  from  him  to  the  four  quarters  of  the  world, 
that  he  had  visited  them  all  except  one  in  the  south,  that  he  had 
suffered  much  for  two  or  three  years  for  want  of  clothing,  that  he 
despised  a  theft  except  to  clothe  himself,  etc.  Joseph  the  Prophet 
declared  that  Olney  had  never  seen  the  Ancient  of  Days,  or  anything 
like  him,  but  that  he  was  under  the  influence  of  a  wicked  and  de- 
lusive spirit. 

William  Law  acted  for  a  while  as  second  counselor  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  Nauvoo,  111.,  and  while  on  terms  of  inti- 
mate friendship  with  the  Prophet  he  was,  Judas-like,  plotting  with 
his  enemies  to  destroy  him.  His  treachery  was  found  out  ,and  he  was 
dropped  from  his  position  and  excommunicated  from  the  Church. 
But  so  strongly  did  this  base  man  profess  to  believe  in  the  doctrines 
of  the  Church  that  after  declaring  Joseph  Smith  to  be  a  fallen  prophet 
he  actually  attempted  to  organize  a  church  of  his  own.  He  put  himself 
at  the  head  of  it  as  a  prophet,  chose  two  other  apostates  to  act  with 
him  as  counselors,  and  proceeded  to  select  twelve  men  to  be  his 
apostles.  This  movement  of  his  and  his  confreres  was  the  height  of 
impudence  and  hypocrisy,  and  of  course  it  failed. 

When  Joseph,  the  Prophet,  was  martyred  the  members  of  the 
Church  were  placed  in  at  position  which  they  had  never  before 
experienced.  Nobody  had  looked  for  Joseph  Smith's  early  demise  (he 
being  only  38  ye^ars  of  age)  although  he  had  hinted  at  it  several  times. 
But  the  people  seemingly  did  not  understand  him,  no  more  than  the 
disciples  of  old  understood  Jesus  the  Christ  when  he  talked  to  them 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSEN. 


125 


of  his  early  death.  Not  until  he  arose  from  the  grave  did  the  apostles 
and  disciples  of  old  understand.  The  Church  in  our  day  did  not 
understand  the  principles  of  succession  of  the  presidency  of  the 
Church,  in  1844,  as  well  as  they  do  now.  Sidney  Rigdon  who  had  acted 
a,s  first  counselor  to  Joseph  the  Prophet  came  forward  after  the 
martyrdom  of  Joseph  and  wanted  the  Church  to  accept  of  him  as  the 
Guardian  of  the  Church.  He  had  not  been  true  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
for  several  years,  and  after  his  case  had  been  investigated  by  'ihe 
apostles  and  high  council  at  Nauvoo,  he  was  excommunicated  from 
the  Church.  He  then  went  to  Pennsylvania  and  organized  a  church 
of  his  own,  which  had  some  following  for  several  years  and  did  not 
altogether  cease  to  exist  as  an  organization  until  the  death  of  Sidney 
Rigdon,  in  1876. 

William  Smith,  the  Prophet's  brother,  who  had  succeeded  to  the 
position  of  Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church,  also  tried  to  organize 
a  separate  faction,  but  most  of  his  followers  subsequently  left  him 
to  follow  James  J.  Strang,  another  pretended  leader. 

James  J.  Strang  had  joined  the  Church  shortly  before  the  death 
of  the  Prophet.  He  claimed  to  have  received  a  letter  from  the  Prophet 
Joseph  appointing  him  to  preside  over  the  Church,  in  case  the  Prophet 
should  die,  and  he  made  further  assertions  to  the  effect  that  he  had 
seen  an  angel,  received  revelations,  etc.  Fie  tried  to  organize  a  stake 
in  Voree,  Wisconsin,  with  two  or  three  hundred  followers,  and 
afterwards  moved  his  headquarters  to  Beaver  Island,  in  Lake  Michi- 
gan, where  he  founded  a  town  called  St.  Jlame,s  and  had  his  follow- 
ers anoint  him  a  king,  to  preside  over  the  kingdom  of  God,  claiming 
at  the  same  time  that  Joseph  Smith  had  only  been  president  of  the 
Church.  For  a  short  time  King  James  reigned  apparently  with  a  de- 
gree of  success,  but  after  a  while  he  became  overbearing  and  tyranni- 
cal in  his  ways,  and  on  a  certain  occasion  he  had  some  of  his  dis- 
obedient or  rebellious  followers  whipped  in  public.  This  so  exasperated 
the  parties  thus  punished  that  they  improved  the  first  opportunity  they 
could  find  to  assassinate  James  J.  Strang.  This  took  place  in  1855  on 
Beaver  Island.  This  was  the  end  of  "King  James,"  but  strange  enough 
some  of  his  followers  continued  to  adhere  to'  his  false  doctrines  and 
really  believed  that  he  was  called  of  God,  that  he  had  received  revela- 
tions and  was  the  true  successor  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  About  twenty 
years  ago  one  of  the  Strangite  apostles  visited  Utah.  There  may  be 
half  a  dozen  Strangites  yet  alive. 

On  my  recent  visit  to  Texas  I  became  quite  well  acquainted  with 
the  career  of  Lyman  Wight  in  that  country.  Lyman  Wight  was  a 
strong  and  influential  man  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  had 
acted  for  several  years  as  one  of  the  twelve  apostles,  but  when 
Joseph  passed  away  Lyman  Wight  claimed  that  he  would  not  follow 
Brigham  Young  or  any  other  man  in  the  Church.  Hence,  when  it 
was  decided  (at  the  time  of  the  exodus  from  Nauvoo,  in  1846)  thj&t 
the  Saints  would  seek  a  new  home  in  the  Rocky  Mountains,  Elder 
Wight  refused  to  go  into  that  desert  country,  having  perhaps  forgotten 
that  Joseph  Smith  had  predicted  that  the  Saints  should  become  a 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


mighty  people  in  the  Rocky  Mountains.  So,  instead  of  working  in 
harmony  with  the  other  members  of  his  quorum,  he  led  two  or  three 
hundred  people,  members  of  the  Church,  first  into  the  Indian  Ter- 
ritory and  later  to  that  part  of  Texas  where  Austin,  the  capital  of 
that  state,  now  stands.  There,  in  a  beautiful  galley,  he  built  a  mill 
and  endeavored  to  establish  a  colony  but  failed.  He  tried  three  other 
localities  but  failed  again  in  regular  succession,  until  rqany  of  his 
followers  left  him  and  he  himself  died  as  a  drunkard,  in  1858. 
Lyman  Wight  remained  true  to  the  first  principles  of  the  gospel  and 
tried  even  to  practice  the  rules  of  the  United  Order,  or  something 
similar,  in  which  the  members  of  his  church  should  be  equal  in 
temporal  as  well  as  spiritual  things ;  but  while  he  was  colonizing 
in  one  of  the  best  districts  of  country  and  should  have  met  with 
great  success,  he  entirely  failed,  as  stated,,  while  Prest.  Brigham 
Young  and  the  Twelve  who  remained  true  to  the  Church  proceeded 
in  the  successful  establishment  of  settlements  of  the  Saints  in  the 
Rocky  Mountains,  though  that  part  of  our  great  country  which  is  now 
Utah  was  at  the  time  of  Lyman  Wight's  departure  for  the  south  a 
desert  and  desolate  country  as  compared  to  Texas. 

George  Miller  had  been  one  of  the  presiding  bishops  of  the 
Church  in  Nauvoo  and  had  led  one  of  the  leading  camps  of  the 
Saints  westward  into  the  wilderness.  But  he  became  disaffected  and 
with  a  small  faction,  over  which  he  gained  influence,  he  also  went 
down  into  Texas,  where  he  for  a  short  time  affiliated  with  Lyman 
Wight,  but  fell  out  with  him  and  left  for  the  north,  afterwards  to 
become  a  follower  of  James  J.  Strang. 

Alpheus  Cutler,  who  joined  the  Church  at  an  early  day  and  was 
quite  active  in  Missouri,  was  chosen  a  member  of  the  High  Council 
in  Nauvoo,  Illinois,  and  afterwards  acted  as  President  of  the  High 
Council  at  Winter  Quarters,  Neb.  When  Prest.  Brigham  Young  left 
Winter  Quarters,  in  1848,  on  his  second  trip  to  the  Valley-  with  a 
large  emigration  Alpheus  Cutler  remained  in  Iowa,  where  he  for  some 
time  was  identified  with  the  Silver  Creek  branch,  but  he  was  dis- 
fellowshiped  from  the  Church  at  a  conference  held  in  Pottawattamie 
County,  Iowa,  for  exercising  an  influence  against  the  migration  to  the 
Valley  and  for  advocating  the  building  of  a  temple,  etc.  At  a  general 
conference  held  in  Salt  Lake  City,  in  1850,  Father  Alpheus  Cutler,  as 
he  was  generally  called,  was  excommunicated  from  the  Church.  After 
that  he  organized  a  church  of  his  own.  According  to  the  statement  of 
Bishop  Abraham  A.  Kimball  Alpheus  Cutler  changed  his  residence 
from  Pottawattomie  county  to  Manti,  Fremont  county,  Iowa,  where  he 
organized  a  church  and  constituted  himself  as  its  leader,  calling  it 
"The  true  Church  of  Latter-day  Saints,"  and  presumed  to  officiate  in 
the  ordinances  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
such  as  baptisms,  endowments,  etc.  He  also  energetically  denounced 
polygamy  and  the  law  of  tithing,  and  taught  his  followers  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  true  Prophet  of  God,  but  that  Brigham  Young  was  not 
his  successor,  but  an  imposter  and  that  he  (Alpheus  Cutler)  was  the 
true  leader  and  held  the  authority  to  carry  on  the  Latter-day  work. 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 


127 


This  pretended  "true  church"  was  organized  with  Alpheus  Cutler  as 
president,  Edmund  Fisher  as  first,  and  Chauncey  Whiting  as  second, 
counselor,  and  Grandfather  Fisher  a,s  patriarch. 

It  so  happened  that  Heber  C.  Kimball  had  married  two  of  Al- 
pheus Cutler's  daughters,  but  when  Heber  C.  Kimball,  in  1848,  took 
part  of  his  family  to  the  Valley,  these  two  Cutler  girls,  who  each  had 
a  son,  remained  in  Iowa.  The  two  young  women  subsequently  died, 
lejaving  the  two  sons  of  Heber  C.  Kimball  (Abraham  A.  and  Isaac) 
who  subsequently  were  told  of  their  real  parentage,  which  had  been 
kept  from  them  by  their  grandfather.  Abraham  A.  Kimball  (after- 
wards Bishop  of  Kanosh,  Millard  county,  Utah,)  became  identified 
with  his  father's  fjamily  in  Salt  Lake  City  in  1862.  The  next  year  he 
was  called  on  a  mission  and  sent  east  to  get  his  brother  Isaac  to  the 
Valley,  in  which  he  succeeded.  On  this  trip  Alpheus  Cutler,  who  had 
now  become  an  old  man  looking  toward  the  end  of  his  journey,  con- 
fided to  his  grandson  as  follows:  "I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  wjas  a 
Prophet  of  God,  and  I  know  that  Brigham  Young  is  his  legal  suc- 
cessor, and  I  always  did  know,  but  the  trouble  with  me  was  that  I 
wanted  to  lead  and  could  not  be  led.  I  have  run  my  race,  and  sealed 
my  doom,  and  I  know  what  I  have  got  to  meet."  He  then,  addressing 
Abraham;,  his  grandson,  said :  "Let  what  may  turn  up,  never  yield 
the  point  (never  leave  'Mormonism'),  for  it  will  save  and  exalt  you 
in  the  kingdom  of  God."  He  wept  like  a  child  after  saying  this,  and 
then  continued,  speaking  to  his  grandson:  "One  favor  I  wish  to  ask 
you,  namely,  that  you  will  not  divulge  this  confession  to  those  whom  I 
lead,  while  I  live."  Shortly  after  this  Alpheus  Cutler  died  and  the 
church  which  he  hjad  organized  ceased  to  exist. 

In  1848  a  man  by  the  name  of  James  T.  Brewster  associated 
himself  with  Hazen  Aldrich  (at  one  time  a  president  of  Seventies)  and 
organized  a  church,  June  26,  1848,  on  the  pretense  that  the  Lord 
had  rejected  the  original  Church,  and  he  (Brewster)  having  received 
a  commission  of  the  Lord  to  call  together  all  the  pure  in  heart  to  es- 
tablish anew  the  Church.  Brewster  also  claimed  the  extraordinary 
gift  of  reproducing  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  the  lost 
books  of  Esdras,  as  a  continuation  of  the  First  and  Second  Book  of 
Esdras,  which  are  known  among  the  apocryphal  writings  of  the  Old 
Testament.  There  are  still  a  few  Brewsterites  in  existence. 

Granville  Hedrick  is  the  founder  of  a  sect  now  known  as  the 
Hedrickites ;  they  are  the  possessors  of  the  temple  lot  in  Jfackson 
county,  Missouri,  and  claim  to  be  a  branch  of  the  original  church  or- 
ganized in  1830,  but  reject  all  the  revelations  received  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  later  than  1834. 

The  Josephites,  or  so-called  Reorganized  Church,  came  into  ex- 
istence as  a  real  organization,  in  1860,  when  young  Joseph,  a  son  of 
the  martyred  Seer,  accepted  the  leadership.  The  original  member- 
ship of  this  Church  was  to  a  great  extent  made  up  of  Strangites, 
Wightites,  Wm.  Smithites,  Cutlerites  and  remnants  of  other  fac- 
tions by  means  of  whom  the  followers  of  that  organization  are 
trying  to  bridge  over  the  interim,  1844-1860.  The  "Reorganites" 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


represent  the  only  faction  of  apostate  organizations  which  at  the 
present  time,  so  far  as  numbers  are  concerned,  can  claim  any 
consideration. 

Joseph  Morris,  an  early  convert  to  the  Church  in  Wales,  was 
severely  hurt  in  his  youth  from  being  hit  in  the  head  with  a  lump 
of  coal,  while  working  in  the  coal  mines  of  Wales,  and  after 
joining  the  Church,  and  while  doing  missionary  labors,  he  showed 
repeated  signs  of  insanity,  and  finally  a  delusive  spirit  took  pos- 
session of  him  after  his  arrival  in  Utah,  and  he  organized  a  church 
and  established  himself  on  the  Weber  river  as  a  prophet,  in  1861. 
He  pretended  to  receive  a  number  of  revelations  which  have  since 
been  published  in  a  book,  but  he  came  in  collision  with  the  ter- 
ritorial authorities  in  1862  and  was  killed  together  with  a  few 
others  of  his  followers.  His  organization  known  as  the  Morrisites 
was  broken  up,  yet  there  are  even  now  a  few  alive  who  still  be- 
lieve that  Joseph  Morris  was  a  prophet. 

William  S.  Godbe  was  once  a  prominent  man  in  the  Church,  but 
when  co-operation  started  in  1868,  he,  as  one  of  the  merchants 
of  Salt  Lake  City,  rebelled,  withdrew  from,  the  Church  and  or- 
ganized with  others  what  was  called  the  "Godbeite  movement," 
which,  however,  flourished  only  for  a  short  time. 

There  are  a  number  of  other  factions  which  might  be  men- 
tioned, but  time  does  not  permit,  such  as  the  Bickertonites ;  also 
the  Modern  Brewsterites  (a  movement  set  on  foot  by  one  F.  R. 
Brewster,  who  called  himself  the  Seventh  Angel,  the  Captain  of 
the  Lord's  Host,  etc.,  early  in  the  '80's  in  Salt  Lake  City).  An 
organization  made  by  the  late  John  E.  Forsgren,  who  established 
himself  in  a  tent  east  of  Salt  Lake  City  with  twelve  women, 
representing  the  twelve  tribes  of  Israel  and  others  could  be  men- 
tioned. In  fact  I  could  mention  altogether  some  thirty  attempts 
made  by  apostates  or  seceders  from  the  Church  who  claimed 
to  succeed  to  the  divine  calling  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  We 
have  the  history  of  all  these  factions  at  the  Historian's  Office,  and 
are  gathering  additional  information  about  them  from  time  to 
time. 

President  Young  said  at  the  important  meeting  held  in  Nau- 
voo,  111.,  Aug.  8,  1844:  "If  an  man  thinks  he  has  influence  among 
this  people  to  lead  away  a  party,  let  him  try  it,  and  he  will  find 
out  that  there  is  power  with  the  apostles  which  will  carry  them 
off  victorious  through  all  the  world"  (Mill.  Star,  Vol.  25,  page  216). 

This  prediction  on  the  part  of  President  Brigham  Young  has 
certainly  come  true,  and  in  my  remarks  I  have  only  endeavored 
to  show  this  great  fundamental  truth,  that  where  the  Priest- 
hood of  God  is  exercised  in  righteousness,  there  is  success  and 
happiness,  while  the  dissenters  and  apostates  have  always  met 
with  failure  and  disasters.  The'  history  of  the  Church  affords  us 
abundance  of  proofs  to  establish  this  fact.  It  all  goes  to  show 
that  when  we  do  what  the  Lord  wants  us  to  do,  when  we  say 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON. 


129 


what  the  Lord  wants  us  to  say  and  go  where  the  Lord  wants  us 
to  go,  we  will  prosper.  By  doing  this  we  will  gain  the  victory  over 
every  species  of  evil,  and,  if  we  remain  faithful  to  the  end,  be 
saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

May  ^  God  help'  us  to  be  true  to  him  and  to  ourselves,  and  to 
the  principles  which  we  know  to  be  true,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Manasseh  Smith  and  the  choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Victory." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  James  Z.  Stewart. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  outdoors  near  the  Bureau 
of  Information  at  10  o'clock,  Sunday  morning,  October  9,  1921. 
Elder  David  A.  Smith  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  presided.  Tracy 
Y.  Cannon  acted  as  chorister,  and  Frank  W.  Asper,  as  organist. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Alfred  W.  Peterson, 
of  the  Salt  Lake  stake  of  Zion. 

The  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 


ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  SHEPHERD 

{President  of  the  Logan  Temple) 

This  is  certainly  a  glorious  morning.  All  nature  is  smiling  upon 
tis.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  with  us  and  has  been  with  us  in  our 
conference,  and  will  continue  until  its  close. 

I  have  been  thinking,  as  I  have  been  sitting  here  this  morning, 
of  the  words  of  the  prophet  wherein  he  said: 

» 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last  days,  that  the  mountain  of  the 
Lord's  house  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  shall  be 
exalted  above  the  hills;  and  all  nations  shall  flow  unto  it. 

And  many  people  shall  go  and  say.  Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the 
mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob;  ana  he  will  teach 
us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths:  for  out  of  Zion  shall  go  forth 
the  law,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  Jerusalem. 

Surely  we  have  here  a  fulfilment  of  this  prophecy,  for  I  doubt 
not  that  if  I  were  to  ask  how  many  nations  were  represented  here 
this  morning,  even  in  this  overflow  meeting  we  would  find  representa- 
tives from  nearly  every  nation  under  the  sun.  We  would  find  either 
those  who  have  been  gathered  from  the  nations  of  the  earth  them- 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


selves,  or  we  would  find  their  sons  or  their  daughters,  or  grandsons  or 
granddaughters  here. 

The  thought  that  came  to  me  in  connection  with  this  prophecy 
was,  what  a  mighty  responsibility  rests  upon  this  people  who  have 
gathered  here,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  a  specific  purpose.  The 
blood  of  Israel  has  been  gathered  from;  the  nations  where  it  has  been 
scattered.  This  is  the  day  of  gathering-in  of  the  house  of  'Israel;  and 
the  gathering  in  the  tops  of  these  mountains  is  for  the  purpose 
that  we  may  learn  more  fully  the  ways  of  the  Lord  and  that  we  may 
be  able  to  walk  in  the  path  that  the  Lord  would  have  us  walk. 

And  I  have  been  wondering  whether  the  younger  generation, 
the  sons  and  daughters  of  the  fathers  and  mothers  who  have  heeded 
the  call  of  the  Lord  through  his  servants,  have  within  them  the 
same  degree  of  faith  and  a  desire  to  carry  on  his  work,  for  which  their 
fathers  and  their  mothers  have  been  gathered.  Are  we  becoming  careless 
in  regard  to  these  things?  Are  we  forgetting  the  mission  to  which 
we  have  been  called  as  a  people?  Are  we  observing  the  command- 
ments of  God-,  and  are  we  doing  those  things  that  the  Lord  desires 
to  have  done  through  the  gathering  of  Israel? 

In  the  hymn  that  we  have  just  sung  is  one  of  the  purposes  for 
which  this  people  has  been  gathered  in  this  day  and  to  these  parts : 
that  we  might  erect  temples  and  participate  in  the  sacred  ordinances 
of  the  house  of  God.  The  hearts  of  our  fathers  and  our  mothers, 
when  they  crossed  the  plains,  notwithstanding  the  arduous  journey 
that  they  undertook,  were  filled  with  joy  in  contemplation  of  the 
very  thing  of  which  the  prophet  spoke,  that  they  should  come  here 
unmolested,  and  that  they  might  here  serve  God  according  to  the 
dictates  of  their  conscience ;  and  further,  that  they  might  establish 
themselves  here  and  build  temples  to  the  name  of  the  God  of  Jacob. 
As  the  hymn  says,  we  are  here  that  we  may  be  saved,  and  also 
become  saviors  to  those  who  were  not  permitted  to  enjoy  these 
blessings. 

The  gathering  of  the  blood  of  Israel  from  the  nations  of  the 
earth  is  a  very  important  part  of  the  mission  of  the  Curch  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  blood  of  Israel  has  been  mixed  among 
all  the  gentile  nations,  and  it  is  in  the  providence  of  our  heavenly 
Father  that  in  the  last  days  they  shall  be  gathered  together ;  and 
we  are  here,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  should  see  to  it  that  the 
spirit  of  scattering  does  not  enter  into  our  souls. 

Growing  up,  we  have  a  large  number  of  young  men  and  young 
women,  whose  greatest  desire  should  be  to  enter  into  the  temples 
that  have  been  erected,  and  there  enter  into  solemn  covenant 
with  their  heavenly  Father  to  serve  him  and  to  obey  his  laws  and  to 
assist  in  the  establishment  of  Israel  in  this  land.  I  have  thought 
many  times  of  the  advice  given  to  our  young  people  con- 
cerning making  alliances  with  those  who  are  not  of  the  same 
faith, — not    that    we    have    any    quarrel    with    our  neighbors, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  R.  SHEPHERD 


131 


not  at  all ;  not  that  there  are  not  just  as  good  people,  so  far  as  they 
understand  things,  outside  of  the  Church  as  inside, — 'but,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  this  is  a  day  of  gathering  and  concentrating  the  blood  of 
Israel.  And,  now  that  we  have  gathered  out  of  the  nations,  let  it  be 
known  that  our  sons  and  daughters,  who  are  of  the  blood  of  Israel, 
should  ally  themselves  together,  when  the  time  comes  to  enter  the 
sacred  relationship  of  husband  and  wife.  It  is  displeasing  in  the  sight 
of  our  heavenly  Father  that  by  our  acts  we  should  nullify,  in  effect, 
the  very  purpose  for  which  we  have  gathered  here. 

I  have  been  impressed  concerning  this  thing.  We  should  seek  to 
gather  the  blood  of  Israel;  we  should  seek  to  intensify  the  blood, 
of  Israel  in  our  posterity.  And  how  can  that  be  done?  By  those 
who  are  of  the  blood  of  Israel  allying  themselves  together  in  this 
sacred  relationship.  And  then,  as  generations  shall  come  and  go,  can 
you  not  see  how  the  preponderance  of  the  blood  of  Israel  will  come? 
It  is  a  gathering,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 

I  wonder  if  some  of  our  parents  who  have  given  their  lives 
in  the  establishment  of  their  children  in  this  favored  land,  would  not 
be  greatly  disappointed  if  they  found  that  their  boys  and  girls  were 
forgetting  one  of  the  great  purposes  for  which  they  have  gathered, 
and  that  they,  like  old  Israel,  are  seeking  after  strange  gods.  From  the 
beginning  of  time  it  was  the  will  of  God  that  those  who  entered  into 
covenant  with  him  to  keep  his  laws  and  commandments,  should  only 
ally  themselves  with  those  of  the  opposite  sex  who  similarly  entered 
into  covenant  with  him.  We  read  right  in  the  beginning,  that  one  of  the 
chief  reasons  why  the  curse  of  God  was  poured  upon  the  people,  why 
God  became  displeased,  was  because  the  sons  of  God  looked  upon  the 
daughters  of  men  and  took  them  as  their  wives,  as  they  pleased.  Now, 
this  is  plain;  we  should  understand  it.  Who  were  the  sons  of  God? 
They  were  the  ones  who  entered  into  covenant  with  him  and  who 
received  of  his  commandments  and  acknowledged  him  as  their  Father 
and  God.  And  who  were  the  daughters  of  men?  Those  who  had  no 
faith  in  God  and  rejected  him  and  his  laws  and  his  counsels.  And  it 
displeased  the  Father  that  there  should  be  an  amalgamation  of  these 
two  opposing  powers  or  factors;  and  from  that  time  to  the  present, 
that  commandment  has  been  to  Israel,  and  it  is.  the  law  of  God  to  Israel 
today.  There  are  plenty  to  select  from ;  look  at  the  hosts  of  Israel 
as  they  are  gathered  together.  We  need  not  enter  into  this  most  sacred 
relationship  with  those  who  have  not  similar  faith  and  ambition  and 
desires.  It  will  never  be  productive  of  good.  I  have  heard  presidents 
of  the  Church,  for  years,  say: — and  their  advice  was  not  only  to  Latter- 
day  Saints  but  to  other  people — that  it  was  not  good  that  those  who. 
diave  opposing  ambitions  and  views  and  faiths  try  to  amalgamate 
together  as  husband  and  wife,  because  it  will  not  work  out.  Either  they 
will  lose  faith  and;  disregard  the  faith  thatj  they  have,  or  else  there  will 
be  eternal  trouble. 

I  believe  this  a  matter  of  great  importance,  my  brethren  and.. 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sisters,  and  I  speak  to  you  as  parents,  and  I  speak  to  you  as  young 
men  and  as  young1  women;  if  your  young  people  want  happiness, 
peace,  and  the  fullest  joy  in  this  life  and  the  life  which  is  to  come, 
let  them  rememiber  the  advice  and  counsel  that  God  has  given  his 
people,  and  in  their  selections,  let  them  make  selections  of  husband 

-or  wife  from  those  who  have  the  same  faith  and  ideals,  and  ambitions, 
and  who  are  journeying  toward  the  same  goal.  This  subject  of  mar- 
riage, my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  more  important  than  some  people 
think;  it  means  more.  It  is  the  laying  of  the  foundation  for  eternal 

glory  and  happiness  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God,  if  entered  into  with 

the  proper  spirit  and  with  the  proper  understanding  of  that  sacred 
relationship.  What  a  sorrowful  thing  it  is  to  know  that  there  is  such 
a  large  percentage  yet  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  these  pioneers, 

■who  came  here  and  gave  their  all  for  the  gospel's  sake,  that  nearly 
one  half  of  them  reject  the  opportunity  granted  to  them  of  entering 
into  this  sacred  relationship,  which  God  ordained  in  the  way  that 

he  did. 

I  said  we  came  here  to  build  temples.  One  of  the  ordinances  of 
the  house  of  God  is  the  solemnizing  of  this  sacred  relationship. 
And  how  blessed  are  those  who  have  been  born  under  the  covenant, 
that  they,  having 'a  high  regard  for  the  faith  of  their  fathers  and  for 
their  own  faith,  go  to  the  house  of  God  and  there  are  sealed  to  their 
husband  or  wife  for  time  and  for  all  eternity.  What  is  more  sad  than 
when  death  comes  into  the  family  and  the  wife  or  the  husband  is 
stricken,  than  to  realize  then  that  the  relationship  that  has  meant 
so  much  to  them  is  at  an  end.  And  it  is  at  an  end,  my  brethren 
ami  sisters,  unless  it  has  been  solemnized  by  those  who  are  author- 
ized of  God,  and  the  couple  have  been  sealed  together  for  time  and 
for  all  eternity. 

And  let  us  remember,  too,  that  now  is  the  time ;  now  is  the  accepted 
time.  There  are  many  who,  for  various  reasons,  which  I  have  not 
time  to  discuss,  refrain.  They  are  those  who  have  a  kind  of  faith 
and  a  desire  to  do  it,  though  not  very  strong,  thinking,  "O,  that 
can  be  done  sometime  later  on;  we  will  leave  this  for  someone  else 
to  do"  or  "we  will  do  it  when  we  get  old."  They  procrastinate.  It 
is  dangerous,  for  let  it  be  known,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  no  man 
no  woman,  will  ever  receive  the  same  degree  of  glory  in  the  world 
1o  come,  who  refuses  and  rejects  to  do  the  thing  they  may  do  in  this 
i'fe — I  care  not  if  the  work  is  done  for  them  by  somebody  else. 

I  hope  the  Latter-day  Saints  understand  that.  Certainly  we  do 
work  for  the  dead;  but  some  people  have  an  erroneous  idea  that 

those  who  refuse  to  do  the  work  in  this  life,  and  for  whom  the  work  is 
done  after  they  have  passed  away,  are  just  as  well  off  then;  that  is 

a  mistake.  The  primary  principle  of  vicarious  work  for  the  dead  is  to 
do  for  themselves.  You  know  our  Christian  friends  on  the  outside — 

we  call  them  Christian,  even  if  they  do  not  call  us  Christian — have 


ELDER  JAMES  N.  LAMBERT 


133 


found  fault  with  this  doctrine  of  doing  work  for  the  dead,  charging 
us  with  this  that  it  is  an  encouragement  for  impenitence  and  of 
putting  penitence  off.  That  is  not  true;  they  do  not  understand 
what  we  believe  in.  Work  may  be  done  even  for  the  sinner,'  but  he  will 
never  receive  the  same  degree  of  glory,  as  if  he  had  done  it  himself. 

Now  these  are  some  of  the  things,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
I  thought  of  this  morning  as  I  saw  this  great  audience  here,  and  as 
we  sang  this  hymn  concerning  the  gathering  of  Israel,  and  as  we 
sang  the  hymn  in  the  opening  of  the  meeting  of  the  travels  of  our 
parents  and  grandparents  of  this  country.  I  thought  "Why  all 
this?"  It  was  that  we  may  enjoy  the  greater  blessings  of  the  gospel 
that  are  administered  in  the  house  of  God.  That  is  one  of  the  chief  rea- 
sons. And  here  we  are  living  under  the  shadow  of  the  temple  of  God. 
Will  we,  any  of  us,  reject  the  opportunity  that  we  have  for  receiving 
these  blessings  ?  I  hope  not.  I  am  glad  to  say  that  so  far  as  my  personal 
experience  goes,  the  spirit  of  the  work  is  growing,  and  the  testimonies 
of  the  divinity  of  the  work  are  growing  in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  and  in 
proportion  as  our  young  people  and  our  old  people  will  go  to  the  tem- 
ple of  God  and  receive  the  blessings  administered)  to  them  there,  it  will 
give  them  additional  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  work.  Let  us 
as  sons  and  daughters  of  the  noble  pioneers  who  came  here  and  left 
their  all  for  the  gospel's  sake,  be  true  to  them,  their  memories,  and 
their  faith,  and  let  us  carry  on  the  work  that  they  expect  of  us.  And 
may  God's  blessing  be  upon  us  to  this  end,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  N.  LAMBERT 

(Former  President  of  the  New  Zealand  Mission) 

I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  privilege  that 
is  afforded  us  to  worship  our  heavenly  Father  on  this  beautiful 
morning. 

It  is  now  something  less  than  a  hundred  years  ago  since  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  established.  Shortly 
after  the  Church  was  organized,  in  this  day  and  age,  the  Lord  said 
that  he  was  about  to  commence  a  marvelous  work,  a  work  that  would 
possibly  not  be  understood  by  some.  Shortly  after  our  Church  became 
a  church,  in  the  state  of  New  York,  our  people — your  people  and 
mine — were  compelled  to  move  from  that  state  because  of  persecution 
that  was  heaped  upon  them.  They  went  from  the  state  of  New  York 
into  Ohio,  and  from  Ohio  to  Missouri,  and  from  Missouri  back  into 
Illinois.  And  then  came  the  movement  west  into  the  valleys  of  the 
mountains.  Some  that  were  weak,  who  felt  that  they  could  not  stand 
the  heat  and  the  burden  of  the  day,  fell  by  the  wayside.  The  Lord 
blessed  those,  however,  who  had  the  tenacity,  the  will,  the  desire. 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


It  is  recorded  that  even  in  the  first  company  of  pioneers  who  came 
here  July  24,  1847,  there  were  some  who  could  not  see  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  that  would  attend  the  people  in  the  settlements  of  this 
valley.  They  were  willing  to  take  a  chance  as  to  what  lay  beyond, 
between  here  and  the  Pacific  ocean;  they  reminded  President  Young 
that  they  had  seen  many  places  from  the  Missouri  river  unto  this 
valley  that  appeared  more  inviting  to  the  human  eye  than  they  saw 
when  they  first  caught  a  glimpse  of  this  valley.  President  Young's 
remark  to  them,  however,  as  his  prophetic  eye  could  see  what  lay 
in  the  future  for  the  people  who  settled  here.  was.  "This  is  the  place." 
And  when  reminded  that  •  this  was  a  part  of  the  Great  American 
Desert,  he  said  that  we  would  yet  make  it  literally  blossom  as  the  rose. 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  you  can  testify  to  the  truthfulness  of  this 
prophecy  of  President  Brigham  Young.  Surely  the  Lord  has  blessed 
us;  surely  the  Lord  is  blessing  us.  Wherever  our  people  have  settled, 
f:om  Canada  to  Mexico,  from  California  to  states  east  of  us,  the 
Lord  has  blessed  our  people  and  blessed  their  efforts. 

I  wonder  if  all  of  us  are  striving  to  do  what  is  required  of  us  as 
Latter-day  Saints.  Brother  Shepherd  in  reminding  us  of  one  of  the 
greatest  blessings  that  has  come  unto  us,  one  of  the  greatest  gifts 
that  the  Lord  has  conferred  upon  us — to  be  married  in  the  temples 
of  our  God,  to  be  sealed  to  our  companions,  not  only  for  this  life, 
but  for  the  life  to  come — wondered  if  all  of  us  who  are  here  this 
morning  are  doing  our  utmost  to  live  up  to  that  blessing.  Are  we 
teaching  our  children  the  blessings  that  have  come  unto  us  and  that 
have  been  taken  advantage  of  by  us? 

You  know  we  have  been  accused  many  a  time  of  being  a  peculiar 
people,  peculiar  in  our  ways.  In  the  first  few  years  of  the  existence 
of  our  Church  we  were  accused  of  believing  in  a  God  that  has  body, 
parts,  and  passions,  of  believing  in  a  God  that  could  hear  and  answer 
our  prayers,  of  believing  that  we  could  ask  him  to  direct  us  in  the  way 
in  which  we  should  go  and  that  he  would  do  so.  We  have  been  held 
up  to  ridicule,  not  only  in  this  country,  but  throughout  the  world, 
wherever  the  gospel  has  been  preached.  But  I  believe  the  tide  is 
turning ;  I  believe  the  people  of  the  world  are  beginning  to  admire  us 
and,  perhaps,  to  sing  our  praises. 

You  will  remember  that  it  is  recorded  in  the  Scripture  that 
the  Lord  said  we  should  beware  when  people  would  begin  to  say 
all  manner  of  good  things  in  favor  of  us,  but  rejoice  and  be  exceeding 
glad  when  the  world  said  things  falsely  against  us.  It  was  my  privilege 
only  a  few  weeks  ago  to  talk  to  a  prominent  physician  in  this  city, 
a  man  who  does  not  claim  to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint;  and  when  he 
learned  that  I  had  recently  returned  from  a  mission  where  I  had 
been  preaching  the  gospel  for  some  years,  he  said,  "This  system  that 
you  'Mormon'  people  have  of  sending  your  missionaries  into  vhe 
world  is  a  wonderful  thing ;  the  other  religious  sects  of  the  day  do  not 
have  it ;  the  other  religious  organizations  won't  do  it ;  it  is  left  entirely 


ELDER  JAMES  A\  LAMBERT  135 

for  the  'Mormon'  people  to  do  it.  I  wonder  how  you  started  such 
a  thing."  I  told  him  that  away  back  in  the  beginning  of  our  Church, 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  received  a  revelation  (o  send  our 
elders  out  two  by  two.  to  preach  the  gospel  without  fear  or  favor, 
to  deliver  the  message  that  they  had  received,  to  warn  their  neighbor, 
even  as  they  had  been  warned,  and  that  we  go  out  without  hope  or 
thought  of  reward  so  far  as  this  life  is  concerned,  when  a  call  comes 
to  us,  whether  to  a  man  or  woman,  to  go'  out  and  preach  the  gospel, 
and  we  have  been  set  apart  for  that  particular  work;  that  the  Lord 
blesses  us,  and  many  return  here  seeing  the  fruits  of  iheir  labors, 
and  those  who  have  not  even  had  this  privilege,  later  on  see  that 
ethers  reap  from  the  seed  they  sowed. 

I  was  reminded,  in  talking  to  this  doctor,  of  the  remark  that 
was  made  some  years  ago  by  a  prominent  Salt  Laker,  a  man  who 
had  come  here  and  married  a  Salt  Lake  woman  after  he  had  visited 
all  parts  of  the  United  States  and  other  parts  of  the  world.  Tn  the 
Commercial  Club  of  Salt  Lake  City  here,  he  made  the  statement 
that  never  in  his  travels  had  he  met  a  people  who  were  so  ready 
to  make  answer,  who  were  so  ready  to  talk  and  discuss  things, 
and  give  a  reason  for  the  hope  that  is  within  them.  He  said  you  can  go 
into  the  smallest  hamlet  and  find  men  and  women  there  who  can  do 
it.  and  I  marvel  at  it.  A  man  who  heard  him  make  this  statement  was 
rather  anxious  to  find  out  just  why  he  thought  he  had  found  such  a 
condition.  This  brother  wanted  to  know  if  he  had  the  right  idea 
about  it,  and  so  at  the  close  of  the  meeting  in  the  Commercial  Club, 
he  asked  this  gentleman  to  what  he  attributed  this  ability  that  he  found 
so  peculiar  among  our  people.  He  said,  "That  is  no  secret;  it  is  this 
wonderful  missionary  system  that  you  'Mormon"  people  have,  of 
sending  your  young  men  and  your  young  women  into  the  earth,  into 
the  various  parts  of  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel.  They  come  back 
bubbling  over  with  new  ideas.  They  bring  back  the  best  things 
that  they  see,  no  matter  whether  they  go  to  Japan  or  to  Australia, 
or  to  South  Africa  or  to  various  parts  of  Europe,  or  to  various  states 
of  this  Union." 

There  is  nothing  in  the  world,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
benefits  a  person  like  comparison,  travel,  education.  Do  you  wonder, 
therefore,  at  the  high  standard  that  is  maintained  by  our  people  here 
in  this  state?  We  compare  most  favorably,  when  measured 
by  the  various  states  of  the  Union  or  various  countries  of  the  world, 
ac  far  as  education  is  concerned.  We  have  ever  sought  education.  Our 
elders  who  go  into  the  various  mission  fields  and  who  come  back  with 
these  excellent  ideas  gathered  up  from  peoples  to  peoples,  disseminate 
these  good  things  among  the  rest  of  us.  We  have  ever  striven  for  that 
which  is  good  and  wholesome  and  pure,  from  the  very  things  that 
we  were  taught  in  the  early  history  of  the  Church,  that  "The  glory 
of  God  is  intelligence,"  that  all  we  seek  after  here,  all  the  good, 
the  excellent  things  we  get  here,  and  remember  and  understand,  will 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

rise  with  us  in  the  hereafter,  and  by  so  achieving,  by  sot  accomplishing 
and  understanding  these  things,  our  power  will  become  much  greater 
in  the  other  world.  Do  you  wonder,  then,  at  the  ambition,  do  you 
wonder  at  the  desire  that  is  in  the  heart  of  every  Latter-day  Saint? 
Not  at  all.  Do  you  wonder,  then,  that  every  parent  puts  forth  his 
best  efforts  to  teach  his  son  or  his  daughter  the  things  that  are 
most  dear  to  him,  the  gospel  of  eternal  life,  the  gift  of  eternal  life, 
that  has  been  so  much  misunderstood,  by  the  people  of  the  world? 
You  elders,  and  you  sisters,  who  have  been  abroad  preaching  the 
gospel  and  have  heard  ministers  and  others  contend  that  the  gift  of 
eternal  life  in  the  kingdom  of  God  is  the  gift  of  God  without  any 
effort  on  our  part,  you  have  heard  it,  and  you  have  wondered  and 
marveled  at  the  misconception  that  some  people  have. 

Let  me  point  out  a  comparison  that  I  have  made  on  many  an 
occasion  when  such  arguments  have  been  brought  up.  There  is  no 
state  in  the  Union,  no  country  in  the  world,  that  affords  an  education 
to  a  young  man  or  woman,  more  than  does  the  state  of  Utah.  Our 
boys  and  girls  growing  up  here  are  compelled  to  go  to  school.  Books 
are  found  for  them;  pencils,  paper,  ink,  are  furnished  them.  They  can 
go  to  school,  and  if  they  live  any  great  distance,  conveyances  of 
some  kind  are  provided  for  them.  This  'gift'  of  education  is  theirs. 
It  is  not  theirs  for  the  asking,  because  it  is  forced  upon  them;  they 
cre  compelled  to  take  it;  a  boy  or  girl  in  normal  conditions  must  go  to 
school  and  receive  an  education;  they  are  compelled  to.  Would  any- 
one say  that  education  is  not  free  ?  Why  no ;  we  boast  of  it ;  we  prate 
it,  we  sing  of  it;  our  missionaries  in  going  to  the  uttermost  parts  of 
the  world  tell  of  the  splendid  things  that  we  have  achieved,  and  how 
when  we  are  measured  up  to  our  sister  states  in  this  Union,  we  com- 
pare well  with  them.  And  yet,  do  you  mean  to  tell  me  that  any  boy 
cr  girl  will  ever  go  from  one  grade  to  another  without  an  effort 
on  his  own  part?  Did  you  ever  hear  of  anyone  being  graduated 
from  the  eighth  grade  into  the  high  school  without  an  effort  on  the 
part  of  the  one  who  is  receiving  this  splendid  gift,  without  price, 
of  education?  Why  no,  and  do  you  think  a  person  can  be  admitted  at 
the  University  who  has  not  credits  entitling  him  to  go  there?  Not  at 
all.  And  yet  this  education  is  free.  No  one  would  have  the  termerity  to 
say  that  this  education  is  not  free.  It  IS  free;  yes,  for  those  who 
WORK  for  it.  God  Almighty  is  not  going  to  save  his  children  in 
ignorance.  Just  as  I  quoted  to  you  a  few  moments  ago,  "The  glory 
of  God  is  intelligence;"  God  rejoices  in  seeing  his  children  grow  and 
develop  and  become  something.  He  does  not  look  down  upon  us  with 
any  degree  of  satisfaction  and  joy  when  he  knows  that  we  are 
ignorant  or  will  remain  in  ignorance — either  in  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  or  in  anything  that  is  going  to  make  us  bigger  or  better  or 
greater.  God  almighty  will  rejoice  in  seeing  us  become  bigger,  greater, 
better. 

I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  wonderful 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


137 


conference.  I  rejoice  with  you,  and  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that 
I  know  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  within  this 
Church  are  found  the  blessings  of  Almighty  God,  and  that  we  cannot 
expect  to  find  them,  nor  will  we  find  them,  outside.  The  Lord  has 
been  merciful,  kind,  considerate,  long-suffering,  and  patient  with 
some  of  us.  May  we  appreciate  these  blessings.  May  we  appreciate 
the  outstretched  hands  of  our  Father,  that  are  continually  beckoning 
for  us  to  come  to  him  to  receive  at  his  hands  these  wonderful  bless- 
ings that  we  have  preached  about,  that  we  have  sung,  that  we  have 
told  in  story. 

My  God  add  his  blessings,  my  brethren  and  sisters;  may  he 
sustain  us  and  uphold  us  in  all  our  righteous  endeavors,  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

(Former  President  of  the  South  African  Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends.  I  delight  to  testify  to  the 
goodness  of  God  to  me  and  to  his  people.  I  delight  in  having  the 
opportunity  of  preaching  the  gospel.  I  love  it.  I  love  the  people  of  this 
state.  I  love  the  "Mormon"  people  wherever  they  are,  and  I  love  all 
good  people.  Sometimes  I  think,  when  we  are  talking  to  ourselves  and 
about  ourselves,  perhaps  we  laud  ourselves  a  little  too  high.  Speaking 
as  a  foreigner — for  I  may  be  counted  as  such  since  I  have  spent 
the  last  eight  years  of  my  life  doing  missionary  work  in  the  Union 
of  South  Africa — I  can  see  a  few  things  that  look  a  little  bit  peculiar 
to  me.  Brother  Lambert  has  just  been  telling  you  of  some  of  our 
virtues,  of  how  high  we  stand  along  educational  and  other  lines;  I 
picked  up  a  Milwaukee  paper  not  long  ago,  and  it  said  that  Utah  was 
a  wonderful  state ;  they  do  lots  of  fine  things  in  Utah,  but  that  Utah 
is  a  pest  house;  they  have  more  small  pox  than  any  other  state  in 
the  Union.  Now,  stop  having  small  pox!  (Laughter) 

I  was  impressed  with  the  remarks  of  President  Shepherd  concern- 
ing some  of  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  What  a  joy  it  is  to  us 
Latter-day  Saints  when  we  hear  people  abuse  us  on  account  of  our 
faith  and  some  <  f  the  cloor.ne.-  ol  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Chris:.  It  lias 
not  been  very  long  since  one  of  the  ministers,  whf.u  they  v^ere  gath- 
ered together  here  in  a  convention  ii.  this  city,  ma  )e  the  remark  that 
the  "Mormon"  people  stand  today  where  they  (ihe  inini.vers,  i  stood 
one  hundred  years  ago,  that  they  still  cling  to  the  errors  of  a  hundred 
years  ago.  Brother  B.  H.  Roberts,  in  speaking  in  the  tabernacle  in 
answer  to  the  accusations  on  the  following  Sunday  said,  "Well,  we 
are  thankful  the  Lord  said  that  was  the  trouble  with  mankind ;  they 
are  in  error."  You  will  remember  the  words  of  the  Lord  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  "They  draw  near  to  me  with  their  mouths, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  with  their  lips  do  honor  me,  but  their  hearts  are  far  from  me, 
and  they  teach  the  doctrines  and  commandments  of  men."  They  were 
in  error ;  they  did  not  acknowledge  it  then,  but  now  we  find  them 
acknowledging  it. 

They  say  we  stand  where  they  stood  one  hundred  years  ago. 
Is  it  true?  From  which  one  of  them  did  we  learn  about  this  great 
temple  work?  From  which  sect,  if  you  please,  did  we  copy  temple 
building?  Was  it  from  the  Presbyterians,  or  from  the  Methodists? 
No;  they  did  not  tell  us  about  the  hope  that  we  should  have  for 
those  who  have  gone  before..  We  did  not  copy  it  from  any  of  them, 
did  we? 

I  remember  down  in  South  Africa,  upon  one  occasion,  I  had 
been  talking  with  a  minister  of  the  Church  of  England  about  the 
gospel,  and  this  matter  of  salvation  for  the  dead  came  up,  and  I  told 
him  our  belief  along  these  lines.  "Why,"  he  said,  "that  is  blasphemy 
to  think  of  such  things,  to  teach  that  there  is  a  hope  after  we  are 
dead.  You  drive  people  away  from  the  church.  Do  not  talk  such  rot." 
I  went  into  his  church  in  the  city  of  Ladysmith,  and  there  were 
eleven  of  us  present,  counting  the  minister  and  myself !  And  we 
drive  people  away  from  the  church !  I  said  to  him,  "Come  out  to 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  I  will  take  you  into  one  building  where  ten 
thousand  men  and  women  are  worshiping  the  true  and  living  God,  and 
yet  you  will  tell  us  we  drive  them  away  from  church  by  teaching  that 
there  is  a  hope  for  the  dead." 

Think  of  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  tabernacle  is  tfull  to 
overflowing  with  thousands  and  thousands  of  people,  the  Assembly 
Hall  is  overflowing,  and  here  in  the  open  air  we  have  gathered  together 
hundreds  of  people  to  worship  God,  and  they  would  tell  us  we  drive 
them  away  from  the  church  because  we  teach  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  We  teach  that  he  is  a  loving  Father,  and  it  counts;  it  pays. 
Just  think  of  condemning  all  his  children  who  have  not  had  the  op- 
portunity of  accepting  this  gospel  here  ! 

After  the  war  had  been  going  on  for  a  few  years,  I  had  a 
Church  of  England  minister  say  to  me,  "Well,  there  must  be  hope 
for  the  dead;  when  we  think  of  our  young  boys  who  have  gone  to 
France  and  given  up  their  lives,  surely  there  must  be  an  opportunity 
for  them ;  there  must  be  some  hope  for  them."  Why,  of  course,  there 
is.  Would  our  heavenly  Father  condemn  all  of  these  men,  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  them,  who  never  cared  a  thing  about  Jesus  Christ, 
who  were  careless,  cared  not  for  religion?  Will  God  condemn  them? 
The  only  answer  one  can  give  is  "No."  Then  will  he  condemn  the 
untold  millions  of  others  who  have  perished  in  the  same  way,  or  in 
other  ways?  Are  they  condemned?  Of  course  not.  It  is  not  reasonable. 
That  is  not  the  sort  of  God  that  the  "Mormons"  want  to  believe  in. 
And  from  which  of  these  sects  did  we  copy  such  ideas?  From  which 
of  the  sects  did  we  copy  the  belief  that  God  is  a  true  and  living  God, 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH  139 

has  body,  parts,  and  passions?  Which  one  of  them  dares  stand  up 
and  declare  that  we  copied  it  from  them? 

Which  one  of  the  sects  dare  say  today  that  we  copied  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  from  them?  I  pray  you,  which  one  did  we  copy  it  from? 
And  yet  today  we  find  it  taking  hold  of  other  sects.  One  church 
has  adopted  it  in  toto.  They  do  not  eat  meat,  use  coffee,  or  liquor, 
or  tobacco,  they  have  taken  the  word  of  wisdom  over  completely, 
and  where  did  they  get  it?  We  did  not  copy  it  from  them;  no;  it  was 
given  by  God  himself  to  his  prophet. 

And  so  it  is  with  many  others  of  the  beautiful  principles  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Who  taught  us  to  believe  in  a  preexistent 
state?  And  yet  they  are  coming  to  that.  Which  one  of  them  did  we 
copy  the  law  of  tithing  from?  And  yet  they  have  found  it  of  such 
importance  that  they  sent  a  minister  here  to  study  the  system,  right 
here  in  Salt  Lake  City  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  to  see  whether 
it  might  lie  adopted  by  the  Methodist  Church.  I  had  a  Church  of 
England  minister  tell  me  that  he  really  believed  that  we  must  have 
a  personal  God,  that  he  must  be  a  God  with  body,  parts  and  passions. 
They  are  beginning  to  come  to  it.  We  took  it  from  none  of  them.  We 
had  it,  we  got  it  from  God.  It  was  revealed  from  him  to  his  prophet 
here  on  earth. 

And,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  who  have  these  blessings,  how  we 
should  value  them,  and  how  we  should  strive  to  live  up  to  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ!  Every  blessing  that  existed  in  the  days  of  old  is  ours. 
If  we  will  have  it  we  have  but  to  cultivate  our  faith  to  that  end.  I  tell 
you  that  I  know  that  he  has  the  power  to  raise  the  dead,  to  heal 
the  leper,  to  cleanse  all  who  are  impure,  if  they  will  but  listen  to  his 
purifying  gospel  and  have  faith  in  him. 

You  think  it  was  an  exceptional  miracle  when,  after  crossing  the 
sea,  ihe  Savior  with  his  disciples  came  upon  one  who  was  a  maniac,  and 
cast  the  devils  out  of  him,  but  it  was  not ;  it  is  sometning  that  is 
occuring  all  the  times.  It  was  my  privilege,  in  company  with  Elder 
June  B.  Sharp,  of  this  city,  to  go  into  an  asylum  down  in  the  city  of 
Cape  Town,  and  there  we  found  a  woman  insane,  whose  husband 
had  heard  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  who  had  written  and  asked 
if  we  would  visit  her.  We  went  there,  and  they  told  us  that  she  was 
mad,  and  they  took  us  into  her  presence,  and  we  saw  from  her  eyes 
that  she  was  possessed,  and  I  said  to  Elder  Sharp,  "She  is  possessed 
of  an  evil  spirit ;  we  will  rebuke  it."  And  we  bowed  our  heads,  and  by 
virtue  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  in  us  vested,  we  commanded  that  he 
come  out  of  her  and  leave  her.  And  from  that  instant,  she  was  healed. 
We  went  away  from  the  asylum,  and  a  day  or  two  later,  Elder  Sharp 
lefi  for  home.  I  was  going  down  a  week  later  to  see  how  she  was 
getting  on.  I  met  one  of  the  nurses  and  she  said,  "Why,  she  has  gone 
home  ;  after  you  men  were  here  the  other  day,  she  suddenly  regained 
her  senses,  and  after  we  watched  her  for  about  a  week,  we  released 
her,  and  she  has  gone  back  up  to  her  home."  We  heard  no  more 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


about  her  for  about  six  months,  when  one  of  our  elders,  traveling 
without  purse  or  scrip,  from  Bloemfontein  down  to  East  London, 
stopped  and  held  a  cottage  meeting  in  Queenstown,  and  a  strange 
woman  stood  up  in  the  cottage  meeting  and  said.  "I  feel  that  I  must 
bear  my  testimony  to  what  these  men  have  been  saying.  I  tell  you  that 
I  was  mad,  insane,  and  two  of  these  men  came  into  the  insane 
asylum,  and  by  die  power  which  they  said  they  had,  they  rebuked  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  the  evil  spirits  which  they  declared  possessed 
me,  and  from  that  instant  I  was  another  woman;  I  was  cured  abso- 
lutely.'' 

I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  God  is  watching  over  his 
people,  but  I  wonder  at  times  if  we  are  reaching  out  to  him.  Why,  our 
faith  is  right,  we  can  have  encircling  that  great  temple  before  us 
a  pillar  of  fire  by  night  and  a  cloud  by  day,  to  be  the  wonder  of  all 
the  people  of  the  world  who  come  here  to  this  block  to  hear  of 
"Mormonism"  and  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  do  wonder  when 
they  come  here.  But  if  our  faith  is  right,  and  if  we  will  have  it, 
I  tell  you  we.  can  place  around  that  temple,  a  pillar  of  fire,  which  will 
cause  the  nations  of  the  earth  to  look  up  and  come  here  in  millions 
to  visit  us,  instead  of  in  hundreds  of  thousands.  Brethren  and  sisters, 
let  us  live  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Let  us  do  our  part  and  support 
the  authorities  of  the  Church.  And  if  we  will  live  the  gospel,  as  one 
of  the  apostles  declared  at  our  conference  session  the  other  day;  if 
we  live  the  gospel,  we  will  not  need  to  be  worrying  about  debts; 
we  will  be  out  of  debt.  God  help  us  to  do  it;  God  bless  us  each  and 
every  one,  is  my  prayer.  Amen. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric) 

I  have  been  thinking  while  these  brethren  have  been  talking  to 
you,  "What  was  it  that  caused  President  Shepherd  to  leave  his  home 
and  his  business  and  all  that  he  had  and  move  to  Logan  to  take  charge 
of  that  Temple  when  requested  to  do  so  by  the  presidency  of  this 
Church?  What  was  it  that  caused  Brother  Lambert  to  leave  his  busi- 
ness, his  home,  and  all  that  he  had  to  go  down  to  the  South  Sea  Islands 
to  preside  over  a  Mission  there  and  take  the  gospel  to  the  natives? 
What  was  it  that  kept  Brother  Nicholas  G.  Smith  in  South  Africa  for 
eight  years? — all  at  their  own  expense  and  personal  sacrifice  as  far  as 
this  world's  goods  are  concerned.  Was  it  not  faith  in  God  and  a  desire 
to  be  worthy  of  his  blessings  ? 

I  have  been  wonderfully  impressed  with  the  remarks  that  have 
been  made,  especially  the  remarks  of  President  Shepherd,  whose  life's 
work  is  to  labor  in  the  temple. 

Two  or  three  weeks  ago  I  stood  at  the  east  end  of  the  Tabernacle 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


141 


with  a  body  of  men  who  held  the  office  of  bishop  in  the  Church  to 
which  they  belonged,  and  who  are,  I  believe,  sincere,  men  who  are 
endeavoring  to  better  the  condition  of  their  fellowmen;  one  of  them 
turned  to  me  and  said,  "Bishop  Smith,  what  do  you  do  in  the  temple?" 

I  answered,  "We  baptize  for  the  dead ;  we  perform  the  marriage 
ceremony." 

"Baptize  for  the  dead?"  said  he — "baptize  for  the  dead?  Why  do 
you  baptize  for  the  dead?" 

Here  another  one  said,  "Don't  you  remember?  They  did  that 
anciently.  In  I  Corinthians,  15,  Paul  calls  attention  to  the  fact  that 
at  that  time  they  were  baptizing  for  the  dead." 

Now,  I  want  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  try  and  get  the 
spirit  of  this  work  at  this  time.  Cast  your  eyes  upon  that  building,  you 
will  see  that  the  architect  has  tried  to  interpret  the  word  of  God  in  the 
decorations  on  the  building;  for,  carved  in  the  stone  windows,  you 
will  see  symbols  of  the  sun,  and  the  moon  and  the  stars.  What  does  it 
mean?  It  means  that  we  believe  in  the  words  of  the  Savior,  "Let  not 
your  heart  be  troubled ;  ye  believe  in  God,  believe  also  in  me.  In  my 
Father's  house  are  many  mansions ;  if  it  were  not  so,  I  would  have  told 
you.  I  go  to  prepare  a  place  for  you.  And  if  I  go  and  prepare  a  place: 
for  you,  I  will  come  again,  and  receive  you  unto  myself ;  that  where  I 
am,  there  ye  may  be  also."  (John  14:  1,  2,  3.)  And  Paul  gives  us 
more  light.  "There  are  also  celestial  bodies,  and  bodies  terrestrial ;  but 
the  glory  of  the  celestial  is  one,  and  the  glory  of  the  terrestrial  is  an- 
other. So  also  is  the  resurrection  of  the  dead.  It  is  sown  in  corrup- 
tion ;  it  is  raised  in  incorruption :"    (I  Corinthians  15  :40,  42.) 

We  are  told  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  (Sec.  76:  50-57), 
that  to  receive  an  exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom  is  not  possible 
except  through  the  Priesthood  and  through  faithful  observance  of  all 
the  laws  and  ordinances  of  God.  Every  one  of  God's  children  who  come 
to  this  earth  are  entitled  to  everlasting  life.  "Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto 
you,  The  hour  is  coming,  and  now  is,  when  the  dead  shall  hear  the  voice 
of  the  Son  of  God ;  and  they  that  hear  shall  live.  *  *  *  And  shall  come 
forth;  they  that  have  done  good,  unto  the  resurrection  of  life;  and) 
they  that  have  done  evil,  unto  the  resurrection  of  damnation."  (John 
5:25,  29.)  But  where  is  that  existence  to  be?  Those  who  are  faithful 
in  all  things  will  be  saved  in  the  celestial  kingdom,  where  God  dwells 
and  rules.  Those  who  have  not  been  faithful  in  all  things,  but  have 
fallen  short,  will  be  saved  in  the  terrestrial  kingdom,  the  kingdom  which 
is  presided  over  by  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son.  Those  who  have  chosen  to  go 
their  own  way  and  have  failed  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  in 
so  far  as  it  has  been  their  privilege  to  know  them,  must  be  content  to 
receive  their  salvation  in  the  next  world,  in  the  terrestrial  kingdom, 
which  is  ministered  to  by  angels.  "And  they  shall  be  servants  of  the 
Most  High,  but  where  God  and  Christ  dwell  they  cannot  come,  worlds 
without  end."  (Doctrine  and  Covenants  76:  112.) 

Now  it  is  for  us  to  choose ;  it  is  for  us  to  labor  diligently,  or  go 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


our  way  as  it  pleases  us  to  do,  and  receive  in  God's  kingdom  the  reward 
that  we  merit. 

Why  do  we  baptize  for  the  dead?  Because  God  is  a  just  God,  and 
the  same  law  that  applies  to  me  applies  to  you.  The  same  requirements 
are  made  of  you  that  are  made  of  me ;  I  must  do  the  same  things  that 
you  must  do,  to  receive  the  glory  that  God  has  promised  unto  me 
and  unto  you.  There  are  many  who.  have  not  had  the  privilege  of  hear- 
ing the  gospel;  there  are  many  who  do  not  know  what  God's  plan  is. 
There  were  many  anciently.  Jesus  the  Christ,  after  his.  death,  went  to 
bring  the  gospel  to  those  who  were  in  prison.  "By  which  also  he 
went  and  preached  unto  the  spirits  in  prison ;  which  sometime 
were  disobedient,  when  once  the  long  suffering  of  God  waited  in  the 
days  of  Noah,  while  the  ark  was  a  preparing,  wherein  few.  that  is,  eight 
souls  were  saved  by  water.  The  like  figure  whereunto  even  baptism 
doth  also  now  save  us  (not  the  putting  away  of  the  filth  of  the  flesh, 
but  the  answer  of  a  good  conscience  toward  God,  bv  the  resurrection 
of  Jesus  Christ."  (I  Peter  3  :19,  20,  21.)  And  so  all  men  will  have  the 
privilege  of  hearing  God's  word ;  they  will  have  the  privilege  of  select- 
ing and  choosing  for  themselves  what  their  final  reward  will  be. 
Baptism,  being  an  ordinance  that  can  only  be  performed  in  this  life, 
must  be  performed  by  some  mortal  being  in  this  life,  which,  if  accepted 
by  the  person  for  whom  it  is  done,  will  have  the  same  effect  as  if 
done  personally. 

Why  are  we  hunting  for  our  genealogies?  Why  are  we  seeking 
to  know  who  our  ancestors  are?  Why  does  the  spirit  of  this  come 
upon  us?  Because  we  have  that  promise  that  came  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  which  promise  President  Grant  read  the  other  day : 
"Behold  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the  Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah 
the  prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 
Lord  ;  and  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises 
made  to  their  fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  chidren  shall  turn  to  their 
fathers ;  if  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly  wasted  at 
its  coming."  (Section  2,  Doctrine  and  Covenants.) 

The  fact  that  we  have  the  desire  and  are  being  baptized  for  our  dead 
by  the  thousands,  should  be  an  evidence  to  us  that  Elijah  has  come  in 
this  day,  as  testified  to  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery:  "After  this  vision  had  closed,  another  great  and  glorious 
vision  burst  upon  us,  for  Elijah  the  prophet,  who  was  taken  to  heaven 
without  tasting  death,  stood  before  us,  and  said — Behold,  the  time  has 
fully  come,  which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth  of  Malachi,  testifying 
that  he  (Elijah)  shoud  be  sent  before  the  great  and  dreadful  day 
of  the  Lord  come,  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and 
(he  children  to  the  fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten  with  a 
curse.  Therefore  the  keys  of  this  dispensation  are  committed  into.vour 
hands,  and  by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 
Lord  is  near,  even  at  the  doors."  (Doctrine  and  Covenants  110:  13-16) 
In  this  temple  they  are  taking-  through  hundreds  of  people  every  day, 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  143 

; 

performing  that  work,  in  order  that  those  of  their  kinsmen  who  have 
gone,  not  knowing  the  laws  of  the  Lord,  should  have  the  privilege, 
after  having  heard  it,  of  accepting  the  gospel  and  receiving  the  bless- 
ings God  has  promised  unto  them. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  that  you  have  the  spirit  of 
this  work,  the  most  important  work  that  we  have  to  do.  And  I  again 
voice  the  sentiment  of  Brother  Shepherd ;  let  us  look  to  our  own  homes ; 
are  we  faithful,  worthy,  diligent,  in  doing  that  which  we  are  called  to 
do  ?  Are  we  teaching  our  children  and  bringing  them  up  in  faith  before 
God?  Are  they  looking  forward  to  the  time  when  they  can  go  into  that 
house  and  prepare  to  receive  the  blessings  of  God?  I  want  to  tell  you 
that  those  of  us  who>  have  not  been  doing  so  are  forfeiting  our  right 
to  the  blessings  and  must  be  content  with  our  salvation  in  a  lesser 
degree  of  glory  than  that  where  God  dwells. 

I  humbly  pray  that  the  spirit  of  this  great  work  will  rest  upon  us, 
that  we  will  go  forward  with  all  our  might,  with  all  our  strength, 
humbly  praying  that  God  will  help  us  to  carry  on  the  work  required  of 
us,  his  children.  God  bless  us  to  this  end,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet," 
and  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Patriarch  William  Jex,  of 
the  Nebo  stake. 


THIRD  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  third  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
Sunday  afternoon,  at  2  o'clock,  October  9,  1921.  Elder  George 
Albert  Smith  of  the  Twelve  presided.  The  music  was  furnished 
by  the  Cottonwood  ward  choir,  Cottonwood  stake;  instrumental 
music  by  an  orchestra  conducted  by  Adelbert  Beesley. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem,  "In  our  Redeemer's  name." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Lawrence  Fullmer. 

Ada  McDonald  and  the  choir  sang  "Inflammatus." 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

T  am  sure  it  will  interest  you  all  to  know  that  a  cable  has  just  been 
received  from  Calcutta,  India,  informing  us  that  Brothers  David  O. 
McKay  and  Hugh  J.  Cannon  have  arrived  there  safely  on  their  tour 
around  the  world  to  visit  missions. 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD 

(In  charge,  for  many  years,  of  the  Bureau  of  Information) 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  not  only 
have  your  attention,  but  your  faith  and  prayers.  The  last  few  days 
I  have  not  been  strong,  but  I  feel  that  through  your  faith  and  sup- 
plications to  the  Lord  he  will  aid  me  in  performing  this  task  that  has 
been  assigned  to  me. 

It  is  my  privilege,  day  by  day,  to  meet  many  thousands  of  people 
who  are  coming  from  all  parts  of  the  world;  and  while  we  sat 
in  the  tabernacle  this  morning,  I  observed  some  distinguished  rep- 
representatives  from  foreign  countries.  I  watched  them,  as  they  gazed 
steadfastly  over  that  vast  congregation,  and  observed  that  they  listened 
very  intently  to  the  inspiring  remarks  that  were  made  by  the  speakers. 
I  felt  in  my  soul  that  they  must  have  been  impressed  with  the  won- 
derful faith  on  the  part  of  this  people.  They  must  have  marveled  at 
what  they  witnessed. 

I  am  convinced  that  there  is  more  vitality  in  "Mormonism,"  more 
vigor  and  evidence  of  the  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  more 
demonstration  of  spiritual  life  than  can  be  found  among  any  other 
people  that  I  know  of.  When  our  brethren  spoke  from  the  stand 
with  such  eloquence,  such  power,  inspired  as  by  the  Spirit  of  God, 
I  felt  that  those  fervent  testimonies  were  not  merely  demonstrations 
of  the  ordinary  intelligence  of  man ;  but  that  their  minds  were  quick- 
ened, their  words  were  made  eloquent,  by  the  influence  of  the  Spirit 
of  Almighty  God,  and  we  had  a  spiritual  feast. 

As  I  think  upon  this  subject,  I  wonder  if  it  occurs  to  any  of 
our  stranger  friends,  why  there  is  so  much  vitality,  so  much  in- 
spiration in  "Mormonism;."  I  have  thought  of  the  wonderful  revela- 
tions given  to  us  of  the  Lord  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Pearl 
of  Great  Price,  and  Book  of  Mormon,  I  have  begun  to  realize  why 
there  is  this  vitality,  and  why  the  Latter-day  Saints  ought  to  praise 
God  that  he  has  given  unto  us  in  these  last  days  so  many  revelations 
of  his  will.  I  call  the  attention  of  the  Latter-day  Sainjts  to  this, 
and  of  course  it  is  an  old  story.  It  is  nevertheless  true,  and  if  in  our 
family  circles  we  could  get  our  children  around  us  a  little  more  fre- 
quently, and  tell  them  these  old,  old  sitories,  it  would  do  a  wonderful 
amount  of  good.  We  ought  to  go  back  to  Holy  Writ,  with  regard  to 
the  labors  of  the  Master,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  and  interprete  his  great  mission  for  the  benefit  of  our  young 
people.  We  can  testify  also  that  we  are  living  today  in  the  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times.  Latter-day  Saints  realize  that  God  has  given 
to  them  many  wonderful  truths,  and  marvelous  demonstrations  of  his 
power. 

We  have  taught  to  our  children  the  actual  manifestations  of  the 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD 


145 


Father  and  the  Son  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  God  the  Father 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  appeared  to  that  young  man  at  the  inception 
of  this  work.  But  we  want  to  tell  them  the  story,  time  and  time  again, 
in  such  a  way  that  they  will  feel  impressed  with  the  truth  of  it,  that 
they  will  realize  that  what  we  tell  them  we  feel  in  our  souls  and  be- 
lieve it  to  be  true.  We  remember  the  wonderful  manifestations  given 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph.  Smith  through  the  angel  Moroni,  of  his  appear-  ' 
ing  and  giving  to  us,  through  that  young  prophet,  this  sacred  record, 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  realize  how  we  have  received  the  Aaronic 
Priesthhod  through  the  ministration  of  John  the  Baptist,  and  received 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  through  the  ministrations  of  Peter 
James,  and  John  to  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith,  And  then  as  we  tell 
the  story  of  these  wonderful  events  in  Church  history  unjto  our 
children,  they  will  realize  that  this  is  a  "marvelous  work  and  a  won- 
der," established  by  remarkable  revelations  of  God's  power,  and  they 
certainly  will  realize  that  we  have  abiding  faith  in  these  things.  I 
believe  that  Moroni,  an  ancient  prophet  who  lived  on  this  continent, 
appeared  unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  to  this  we  are  indebted, 
for  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  word  of  God  containing  the  fulness  of 
the  gospel,  and  we  are  inspired  by  its  teachings. 

I  believe  that  that  which  is  stated  in  the  13th  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  actually  took  place;  that  John  the  Baptist,  who 
held  the  authority  anciently,  actually  appeared  before  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery,  and  bestowed  upon  them  the  authority  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood;  and  then,  as  recorded  in  section  27,  Peter,  James,  and 
John  came  with  the  greater  power,  giving  them  the  keys  of  that 
authority  and  bestowing  upon  them  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  we 
bear  testimony  to  these  truths,  and  we  exhort  our  people  to  study 
these  sacred  volumes.  God  has  done  well  for  us.  He  has  fulfilled  his 
promise.  He  has  caused  his  word  to  go  forth  with  power  unto  the 
nations  of  the  earth.  He  has  blessed  our  elders  who  have  labored 
in  the  various  mission  fields,  and  today  upon  the  temple  block  there 
are  tens  of  thousands  who  have  been  gathered  from  the  nations  (or 
their  parents,  perhaps),  and  have  been  brought  to  these  beautiful 
valleys  by  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  Now 
all  these  things  we  believe  in.  You  believe  in  them,  I  know,  just  as 
fervently  as  I  do.  But  God  has  so  blessed  us,  and  so  wonderfully  in- 
spired our  prophets  to  give  us  demonstrations  of  his  power,  that 
it  has  placed  upon  us  obligations  greater  than  ever  to  him.  He  expects 
more  from  us  than  from  any  other  people  that  ever  lived  in  the 
wide  world. 

In  the  days  of  the  Savior  very  few  were  brought  to  the  knowledge 
cf  the  gospel.  In  this  day  thousands  upon  thousands  have  been  brought 
to  the  knowledge  of  that  same  gospel  and  into  the  fold  of  his  Church 
through  the  ministrations  of  humble  elders  going  forth  in  weakness, 
and  often  unqualified  for  the  labor,  but  they  have  had  the  authority 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood  and  (by  virtue  of  that  God  has  blessed  their 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


labors,  and  they  have  convinced  the  honest  in  heart  and  brought  many 
to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth  ;  and  now,  in  all  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
they  are  saying,  "Come,  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord, 
to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob,  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways, 
and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths."  By  virtue  of  this,  God's  people  have 
been  gathered  in  this  dispensation. 

Now,  in  view  of  these  great  blessings,  what  manner  of  men  and 
women  should  we  be?  Should  we  not  make  our  lives  conform  to  the 
teaching  of  this  great  work?  The  strangers  here,  our  neighbors 
surrounding  us,  know  not  the  truths  we  believe  in  and  what  lives  we 
are  supposed  to  live.  I  wonder  if.  by  our  consistent  labor,  |by  the 
righteousness  of  our  conduct,  we  are  bearing  testimony,  day  by  day, 
that  we  are  really  inspired  of  God? 

There  comes  to  my  mind  one  instance  where  wonderful  results 
came  from  faithful  and  consistent  living.  I  love  our  presiding  officer 
here,  Brother  George  Albert  Smith,  as  I  love  very  few  men  here  on 
earth ;  but  I  loved  his,  father,  I  believe,  as  much  as  I  can  ever  love  him. 
Let  me  give  you  an  instance  in  his  life.  Many  years  ago,  in  the  early 
morning  before  many  had  eaten  breakfast,  several  people  came  into 
the  Bureau  in  almost  a  blustering  manner,  they  evidently  were,  "hail 
fellows  well  met."  One  of  them,  approaching  me  said,  "Can  you  tell 
me  if  John  Henry  is  in  town?"  Sometimes  such  familiarity  with  the 
names  of  our  leaders  is  objectionable,  but  his  manner  was  such  that  I 
could  not  take  exception  to  it.  I  asked,  "Who  do  you  mean?"  He  re- 
plied, "John  Henry  Smith."  I  answered  that  I  thought  he  was  at  home, 
and  accordingly  I  telephoned  him.  President  John  Henry  Smith  asked, 
"What  do  you  want,  Brother  Goddard ;  I  am  just  getting  up,  just 
shaving."  I  said,  "I  scarcely  know,  tout  there  is  a  gentleman  here  who 
wants  to  see  you."  He  asked  his  name,  and  I  replied,  "Mr.  Case  of 
Kansas."  He  promptly  said,  "Hold  him  right  there  until  I  can  come." 
I  detained  the  gentleman,  conversed  with  him  and  found  he  was  a 
very  prominent  official  of  the  Irrigation  Congress,  and  that  he  and 
Brother  Smith  had  been  associated  for  many  years.  They  had  attended 
the  Congress  sessions,  the  banquets  and  other  functions.  Finally  Presi- 
dent Smith  came  in.  Have  you  ever  observed  Jolm  Henry  Smith  when 
he  was  going  up  to  an  old  friend,  putting  forth  his  arms  and  encir- 
cling his  comrade  with  those  arms?  He  did  it  with  this  particular 
visitor.  He  hugged  him  as  if  he  had  teen  his  own  brother,  and  said, 
"1  am  mighty  jgJad  you  are  here."  The  stranger  seemed  equally 
affectionate  toward  President  Smith.  A  few  years  later  this  visitor 
came  a  second  time,  and  as  he  and  his  party  came  in,  he  remarked, 
''Mr.  Goddard,  I  want  you  to  meet  my  son."  He  continued,  "I  want 
to  tell  you  wrhy  I  love  John  Henry  Smith.  All  his  associates  know  he 
is  a  'Mormon,'  that  he  stands  by  his  convictions,  that  he  is  sincere, 
that  he  believes  in  all  that  he  says.  This  boy  of  mine  was  with  me 
at  a  banquet  we  attended  some  time  ago  in  Kansas  City.  At  the  table 
]  placed  the  boy  near  John  Henry  Smith,  and  I  sat  a  little  further 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD 


147 


away.  I  knew  what  was  going  to  happen.  I  knew  what  Mr.  Smith 
would  do.  When  he  sat  at  the  table  he  very  quietly  and  without 
ostentation  took  his  glass  and  placed  it  upside  down.  Oh,  I  tell  you- 
I  watched  this  boy.  I  wanted  to  know  how  my  boy  was  going  to  be 
impressed  with  that  example ;  and  when  I  saw  him  at  John  Henry's 
left  hand  take  up  the  glass  that  was  before  him  and  turn  it  upside 
down,  as  an  indication  that  he  wanted  neither  wine  nor  champagne, 
nor  any  other  kind  of  liquor,  I  felt  to  thank  God  for  the  influence 
that  John  Henry  had  upon  him." 

We  shed  tears  together,  as  we  were  talking  over  some  of  these 
circumstances.  This  incident  impressed  upon  me  the  necessity  of  living 
an  upright  and  consistent  life,  that  we  believe  in  and  fully  sense  what 
we  profess,  and  that  we  are  endeavoring  to  live  in  accordance  there- 
with. 

I  had  the  privilege,  a  few  days  ago,  of  meeting  a  very  large 
number  of  representatives  from  the  Eastern  states,  and  as  we  stood 
under  the  shadow  of  the  temple  they  asked  many  questions  regarding 
that  sacred  edifice,  and  just  what  it  stands  for.  I  explained  the  gospel 
principles,  with  regard  to  pur  own  salvation  anl  exaltation,  and  the 
salvation  of  our  dead,  the  unselfish  labors  performed  in  the  temple  and 
the  baptisms  for  the  dead,  how  the  Saints  labor  therein  for  their 
ancestors,  as  far  back  as  they  can  trace  their  genealogies.  I  felt  that 
they  were  impressed  with  what  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  doing  and 
with  the  breadth  of  the  revealed  plan  of  salvation.  While  we  were 
thus  conversing  the  east  gate  opened  and  a  large  number  of  people 
passed  in  carrying  their  valises  and  going  to  the  temple.  "What  are 
they  going  to  do?"  was  the  query.  I  dwelt  at  some  length  upon  the 
devotion  of  the  people  who  were  going  to  be  baptized  for  their 
ancestry,  in  the  faith  and  belief  that  when  the  gospel  is  preached  behind 
the  veil  unto  the  dead,  they  may  have  the  blessings  pertaining  to  that 
holy  ordinance.  Many  expressed  their  deep  interest  in  these  and  other 
truths  expounded  to  them:.  About  a  year  ago  a  young  lady  came  to  the 
Bureau  and  in  an  earnest  and  intelligent  manner,  investigated  the 
gospel ;  ultimately  after  months  of  prayerful  study  she  applied  for 
baptism-.  Soon  afterwards  she  secured  volumes  on  genealogy  and 
learned  that  her  family  was  linked  up  for  centuries  with  some  great 
characters  known  in  American  history.  One  of  these  volumes  was 
loaned  to  me,  and  I  took  note  of  a  stanza  that  impressed  me  as  hav- 
ing a  lesson  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  generally.  I  submit  it  to  you 
in  conclusion,  and  trust  that  we  may  be  alive  to  the  responsibilities  God 
has  placed  upon  us : 

r 

If  you  could  see  your  ancestors 

All  standing  in  a  row. 
Would  you  be  proud  of  them,  or  not, 

Or  don't  you  really  know? 
Some  strange  discoveries  are  made 

In  climbing  family  trees, 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


And  some  of  them  you  know,  do  not 
Particularly  please. 

If  you  could  see  your  ancestors, 

All  standing  in  a  row, 
There  might  be  some  of  them,  perhaps, 

You  wouldn't  care  to  know; 
But  here's  another  question,  which 

Requires  a  different  view, 
If  you  could  meet  your  ancestors, 

Would  they  be  proud  of  you? 

[ 

I  submit  to  you,  that  the  work  now  being  done  in  the  temples  for 
our  ancestors  will  cause  thousands  upon  thousands  to  be  proud  of  these 
who  perform  the  work,  and  eternal  blessings  will  be  received  for  the 
•diligent  performance  of  these  labors,  tout  the  Lord  have  mercy  upon 
those  who  neglect  this  sacred  duty. 

May  God  give  us  a  full  appreciation  of  his  Work  and  an  intelligent 
comprehension  of  it,  that  we  may  all  merit  and  receive  the  Spirit  to 
enable  us  to  labor  for  the  accomplishment  of  his  purposes,  and  that  we 
may  labor  zealously  for  the  salvation  of  our  families  and  our  kindred 
that  have  passed  away.  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  H.  DYE 

{President  of  the  Shelley  Stake  of  Zion,  Idaho) 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  while  speaking  to  you  I  may 
enjoy  the  spirit  that  has  prevailed  during  this  conference.  I  would  not 
like  to  occupy  this  position  without  it  being  of  some  benefit  to  you  as 
well  as  to  myself.  I  feel  that  time  is  very  valuabe,  that  you  have  come 
here  to  be  blessed  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  that  ycu  should  re- 
ceive that  blessing  in  your  gathering. 

Brother  Goddard  referred  to  the  spiritual  part  of  our  religion, 
the  inspiration  which  directs  this  people.  I  want  to>  bear  my  testimony, 
as  one  of  the  humble  servants  of  the  Lord,  that  in  my  ministry  have 
I  noticed  this  inspiration  upon  the  brethren  who  are  somewhat  far 
from  the  center  stake  of  Zion.  The  instructions  that  are  given  in  this 
conference  come  very  forcibly  to  my  mind,  something  that  I  valued  two 
months  ago.  I  have  noticed  that  on  other  occasions  when  there  have 
been  special  instructions  given  to  us  as  a  people,  they  have  come  to 
us  in  our  stakes  as  an  inspiration  from  the  Lord.  I  do  not  speak  of 
this  with  any  praise  to  myself,  but  I  speak  of  it  to  show  to  you,  that 
it  is  a  testimony  to  me  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  permeating  this 
great  assembly,  and  that  its  influences  extend  throughout  the  length 
and  breadth  of  this  great  land  of  ours,  where  the  people  are  worthy 
to  receive  it ;  and  I  think  that  under  the  influence  of  this  Holy  Spirit 
we  are  bound  to  succeed,  especially  if  we  put  into  practice  that  which 
we  are  taught. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  H.  D'YE 


149 


One  of  the  ancient  apostles  in  teaching  the  people  in  his  time  made 
a  statement  like  this :  "Today  is  the  day  of  salvation  for  you" ;  and  I 
have  had  a  thought  during  this  conference,  and  from  the  report  of  the 
instructions  given  that  will  go  out  among  the  people,  and  especially 
when  these  thoughts  go  out  to  the  young  people,  that  today  is  your  day 
of  salvation;  today  is  the  day  that  the  Lord  has  given  you  to  prepare 
not  only  for  life  in  the  future,  but  to  prepare  for  this  life,  in  order 
that  you  may  have  the  blessings  here  as  well  as  hereafter. 

For  illustration,  where  is  there  a  greater  blessing  than  health  to 
our  people,  to  any  people  ?  Without  health  we  are  helpless.  We  are  of 
very  little  use  unless  we  have  health  and  strength,  and  the  Lord  has  told 
us  how  to  obtain  that  health  and  strength.  Yet  many  of  our  own  people 
do  not  cherish  these  words  of  the  Lord  as  they  should  do,  because 
they  are  breaking  these  laws  of  health  and  depriving  themselves 
of  the  blessings  that  they  might  enjoy.  Is  not  today  the  day  of  salva- 
tion for  these  young  people?  Certainly  it  is — not  to  wait  till  they  get 
old  for  their  salvation,  going  on  in  a  reckless  way,  being  out  late  at 
nights,  using  those  things  which  are  forbidden,  as  they  grow  older  they 
will  realize  this,  but  this  opportunity  will  be  gone.  The  period)  of  youth 
will  have  passed,  and  opportunity  neglected,  and  the  result  is  they  have 
lost  that  salvation  that  they  could  have  secured. 

"Of  all  sad  words  of  tongue  or  pen, 

The  saddest  are  these,  it  might  have  been." 

I  often  think  of  our  young  people  as  well  as  many  of  our  older 
ones,  that  they  will  see  the  day  when  they  will  look  back  and  sigh 
for  that  which  might  have  been.  And  where  we  have  neglected  to  take 
advantage  of  these  opportunities,  that,  sometime,  either  in  this  life 
or  the  hereafter  we  will  think  what  we  have  missed,  and  then  these 
words  will  come  forcibly  to  us,  "The  saddest  are  these,  it  might  have 
been." 

Many  times  our  young  boys,  and  older  ones  too,  have  had  a  chance 
to  receive  the  Priesthood,  one  of  the  greatest  opportunities  that  can 
come  to  a  mortal  man ;  and  yet  many  of  them  would  prefer,  perhaps, 
some  of  the  things  they  cherished  in  the  flesh,  such  as  the  use  of 
tobacco,  the  pleasures  of  the  world.  They  would  rather  have  them  than 
receive  the  Priesthood.  And  it  strikes  me,  O  what  are  we  doing  as 
members  of  the  Church  when  we  take  such  a  course,  when  we  fail  to 
receive  the  things  that  are  of  greater  value  unto  us,  both  here  and 
hereafter.  Will  there  not  come  a  time  of  reckoning  and  is  not  today  the 
day  of  salvation  to  us  ?  A  time  to  prepare  not  only  for  this  lifq  but  for 
the  life  to  come? 

I  read  here  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  those  who 
receive  these  two  Priesthoods  (the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood)  become  joint  heirs  with  God  the  Father 
and  with  his  son  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  all  the  blessings  that  they 
have  to  give  are  theirs,  inasmuch  as  they  receive  these  two  Priesthoods 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  remain  faithful  to  them.  O  what  a  blessing  to  become  joint  heirs 
of  God  with  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  in  all  these  glorious  things. 
That  is  further  than  eternity,  and  yet  those  blessings  are  within  our 
reach  if  we  will  take  the  opportunity  that  is  presented  to  us.  So  again, 
let.  me  say,  today  is  the  day  of  salvation,  for  you  and  for  me,  and  we 
should  not  neglect  these  things,  and  should  not  have  to  look  back  and 
say — 

"Of  all  sad  words  of  tongue  or  pen, 

The  saddest  are  these,  it  might  have  been." 

I  see  a  few  young  people  here  hefore  me  this  afternoon.  I  wish 
there  were  more,  because  I  love  to  speak  to  the  young  people,  because 
they  are  the  people  whose  course  I  feel  we  should  direct.  The  young 
people  sometimes  give  way  to  pleasures  that  suround  them,  the  en- 
vironments which  are  about  them ;  they  partake  of  them  more  or  less, 
and  they  do  not  think,  I  feel,  as  seriously  of  the  gospel  and  of  the 
future  as  they  should  do.  There  comes  a  period1  in  their  lives  when  they 
want  to  get  married,  and  we  do  not  blame  them  for  wanting  to  be 
married.  If  there  is  anything  that  I  despise,  in  the  walks  of  life,  it  is 
the  old  bachelor  or  the  old  maid.  And  so  I  think  that  our  boys  and 
girls  should  have  this  opportunity  when  young,  especially  when  they 
are  married  in  the  right  way,  and  that  is  coming  to  the  temples  which 
have  been  provided  where  they  may  be  sealed  together  for  time  and 
for  all  eternity.  Now,  for  illustration,  we  will  say,  here  are  two  boys 
raised  in  the  same  community,  taught  by  good  parents.  One  of  them, 
when  the  opportunity  comes,  goes  to  the  temple,  as  all  good  boys 
should  go,  and  there  he  receives  his  companion  for  time  and  eternity. 
The  other  thinks,  "Well,  I  believe  I  will  be  married  by  the  justice 
of  the  peace,  or  by  my  bishop.  What  a  difference  between  those  two' 
marriages!  Don't  you  see  at  once  that  one  is  cutting  himself  off  from 
the  salvation,  the  glory,  that  he  might  attain  to?  I  imagine  that  I 
can  see  these  two  young  boys  with  their  wives,  as  time  goes  on,  one 
going"  into  eternal  glory  and  eternal  lives,  the  other  deprived  of  those 
blessings,  because  he  has  neglected  those  privileges  he  had  while  in 
the  flesh.  What  will  it  be  to  that  young  man?  Is  not  today  his  oppor- 
tunity for  salvation,  is  not  today  the  day  to  prepare  for  salvation,  not 
only  in  this  life  but  in  the  life  to  come?  I  certainly  think  it  is;  and, 
should  they  neglect  this  opportunity,  when  they  go  to  the  other  side 
they  will  look  back  and  regret  the  course  they  have  taken ;  or,  on  the 
other  hand,  be  glad  that  they  had  the  opportunity  and  improved  it  in 
this  life,  for  salvation  in  this  life  and  also  in  the  life  to  come. 

I  rejoice  that  this  Church  calls  us  all  into  the  service,  gives  us  all 
a  chance  to  receive  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  and  if  we  neglected  it,  we 
deprive  ourselves  of  the  blessings  of  the  Lord.  In  one  of  the  beautiful 
hymns  in  our  hymn  book,  Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow  says,  and  we  so  often 
sing: 


ELDER  THOMAS  X .  TAYLOR 


15-1 


For  a  wise  and  glorious  purpose 

Thou  hast  placed  me  here  on  earth, 
And  withheld  the  recollection 

Of  my  former  friends  and  birth. 

W.e  came  to  this  world  for  a  wise  and  glorious  purpose  for  which 
God  sent  us  here.  We  should  take  advantage  of  the  opportunity. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  and  help  us  to  realize  our  advantages  in  this 
life,  and  by  improving  our  opportunities  maj  we  realize  his  blessings, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  N.  TAYLOR 

(President  of  the  Utah  Stake  of  '/.ion) 

•  My  brethren  and  sisters,  indeed  T  feel  the  great  responsibility  of 
attempting  to  address  you  here  this  afternoon.  I  realize,  perhaps,  that 
many  of  you  have  come  from  long  distances,  in  order  to  be  fed  the 
bread  of  life,  and  I  pray  God  the  eternal  Father  that  he  will  inspire 
me  that  some  thought  may  be  left  with  you  that  perhaps  will  stimulate 
you  to  go  ahead  and  do  the  things  that  you  ought  to  do  and  that  we  all 
ought  to  do. 

I  rejoiced  very  much  in  hearing  Brother  Goddard  refer  to  that 
universal  lover  of  the  Church,  Apostle  John  Henry  Smith.  Most  of  us 
have  in  our  lives  some  dark  days,  some  days  of  trial,  some  days  when 
we  feel  that  we  can  hardly  stand  the  load  that  we  have  to  bear,  and 
when  we  have  had  the  privilege  of  having  a  man  so  full  of  faith,  so 
full  of  love,  of  humanity,  as  to  throw  his  arm  around  us  and  give  us 
an  embrace  that  we  need,  we  love  to  think  of  his  memory.  There  is 
no  reason  why  he  should  not  have  been  loved  as  he  was  loved  through- 
out this  whole  community,  and  more.  It  is  a  beautiful  thing  to  be  a 
universal  lover  of  men,  and  be  loved  for  good  deeds.  He  was  a  wonder- 
ful example,  a  powerful  man,  who  could  exercise  forbearance  towards 
his  fellow  men. 

This  conference  to  me  has  been  a  very  unusual  one,  a  very 
inspiring  one.  One  of  the  brethren,  excusing  himself  from  coming 
up  to  conference,  said,  "I  dislike  having  to  be  excused  from  going  to 
conference,  because  everyone  feels  that  each  conference  is  just  a 
little  better  than  the  one  before.  I  feel  that  inspiration  has  come  to 
everyone  of  us.  I  feel  that  the  Lord  has  answered  the  prayers  of 
his  people  in  this  conference.  I  feel  what  a  splendid  thing  it  is  that 
the  temporal  things  of  life  can  be  so  beautifully  blended  in  the  spirit- 
ual things  of  life,  and  that  the  two  can  be  considered  and  appreciated 
together. 

Since  coming  to  this  house,  I  have  been  reminded  of  one  of  the 
most  remarkable  things  that  ever  came  to  my  attention.  I  shall  take 
the  liberty  of  telling  the  story,  one  that  is  coupled  with  the  building 
of  this  assembly  hall.  It  entered  into  the  life  of  a  boy  friend  of  mine, 
whose  parents  had  come  from  the  old  world.   His  mother  was  a  member 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  the  Church,  but  his  father  was  not.  His  father  was  very  much  in 
love  with  his  mother,  and  felt  she  would  be  happier  if  she  gathered 
with  her  people.  They  came  and  settled  in  this  city,  with  the  under- 
standing that  if  the  mother  ever  became  dissatisfied  they  would 
return,  and  with  that  understanding  the  father  had  made  provisions 
that  they  should  go  back.  They  had  not  been  here  long  before  they 
met  with  a  very  sad  misfortune ;  the  little  home  they  had  was  burned 
down,  and  all  they  had  was  destroyed.  The  boy  got  work  on  this 
block,  helping  with  this  building  during  its  erection,  running  errands 
here  and  there  for  his  first  month.  I  remember  for  that  period  he 
received  $16  on  the  old  tithing  office  in  this  city.  He  went  home  with 
that  order.  The  first  thing  his  father  said  was,  "Have  you  paid 
your  tithing  on  that,  my  son?"  The  lad  said,  "No,  I  have  worked 
pretty  hard  for  that  and  I  don't  propose  to  pay  any  part  of  it."  The 
father  asked,  "How  do  the  people  get  the  money  to  build  that  as- 
sembly hall?"  He  said,  "I  don't  know  how  they  get  it,  but  I  have 
worked  pretty  hard  for  this  $16,  and  I  don't  propose  to  give  any  of 
it  up."  The  father  took  him  by  the  hand,  and  said :  "I  am  not  a  member 
of  the  Church  that  you  have  seen  fit  to  be  baptized  into.  I  have  not 
been  able  to  understand  their  principles  to  such  an  extent  that  I 
have  felt  like  joining  it,  but'  1  want  to  ask  you  a  few  questions:  Am 
I  rearing  a  boy  who  would  try,  if  they  had  a  little  sociable,  to  climb 
through  a  window,  or  climb  under  a  tent?  Am  I  rearing  a  boy  who 
would  avoid  paying  his  obligations  as  a  man?  I  want  to  say  to  you, 
as  long  as  you  are  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  I  want  you  to  be  an  honorable  man,  and  I  want  you  to 
pay  your  tithing  on  that  month's  earnings.  Ten  per  cent  of  that 
should  be  paid  to  the  Church,  in  order  that  they  may  build  such 
buildings  as  you  are  working  on.  I  want  you,  my  boy,  to  be  honest. 
Before  there  is  anything  done  with  that  order,  I  want  you  to  go  to 
your  bishop  and  pay  to  him,  who  has  the  collection  of  these  things, 
the  amount  that  he  is  entitled  to." 

Why,  you  s|ay,  that  hasn't  very  much  to  do  with  the  spiritual 
development  of  that  man.  Do  you  know  what  it  has  done  for  him  ?  He 
has  grown  up  in  this  community,  and  he  is  now  one  of  the  most 
honored  in  this  community,  a  man  whose  integrity  and  whose  honor 
never  has  been  and  can  never  be  questioned,  a  man  full  of  devotion 
and  integrity;  and  wh|at  started  him?  Suppose  his  father  had  been  a 
little  careless,  suppose  his  father  had  decided,  "Why,  we  have  had  a 
great  misfortune.  I  don't  think  they  need  what  little  you  have  worked 
for?"  What  effect  would  that  have  had?  I  don't  think  there  has  ever 
been  a  dollar  in  his  hands,  from  that  time  until  this,  that  he 
has  not  paid  a  tithing  on.  I  thank  God  for  my  privilege  of  being  as- 
sociated with  him.  I  thank  God  for  the  instructions  given  by  that 
father,  although  he  was  not  able  to  see  all  the  truth  of  this  work.  O, 
I  have  wondered  so  many  times,  how  many  fathers  and  mothers  in 
Israel  have  embraced  the  gospel  of  Christ,  who  have  known  how  to 
teach  their  children  what  it  means  to  live  the  gospel.  Many,  so  many, 
of  us  like  to  consider  the  law  of  tithing,  to  construe  that  law,  more  or 


ELDER  THOMAS  N.  TAYLOR 


153 


less  as  a  voluntary  donation  because  we  do  not  have  to  give  quite  so 
much. 

I  remember  one  man  in  the  ward  where  I  had  occasion  to  labor 
in  the  bishopric;  I  went  through  the  questions  with  him,  "Shall  I 
mark  this  as  a  full  tithing?"  "Yes,  I  think  you'd  better  mark  it  full," 
he  replied,  "I  h^ve  been  in  the  habit  of  paying  about  that  much,  and 
I  think  you'd  better  mark  it  in  full."  I  said,  "Is  it  in  full?"  He  said, 
"Yes,  I  think  you'd  better  mark,  in  full."  "Well,"  said  I,  "I  am  a 
little  afraid  you  don't  understand  the  law  of  tithing?"  "Well,"  he 
answered,  "I  think  you'd  better  mark  it  in  full;  I  think  it  is  all  I 
can  afford  this  ye|ar."  I  simply  want  to  call  your  attention  to  this, 
that  you  cannot  compromise;  the  laws  of  God  must  be  lived  up  to 
in  one  thing  as  well  as  another,  and  when  you  come  to  construe  them 
to  suit  yourself,  your  own  convenience,  you  are  shutting  out  yourself 
from  the  blessings  that  you  ought  to  enjoy,  from  the  full  love  that 
comes  to  a  man  who  does  his  duty  and  keeps  the  commandments  of 
God,  the  blessings  that,  I  feel,  have  come  to  that  boy. 

Are  we  kind  to  our  boys?  Are  you  kind  to  your  boys?  Do  we  get 
them  around  us  at  night,  and  tell  them  such  things  as  I  have  told  you, 
teach  them  the  truth,  and  show  them  what  is  right?  Do  we  try  to 
encourage  them  to  read  the  biographies  of  men  who  have  conducted 
their  lives  in  conformity  with  this  work?  If  we  do,  we  are  having 
a  family  circle  th|at  is  very  enjoyable.  If  we  are  talking  to  them  of 
family  prayer ;  if  we  are  talking  to  the  boys  or  girls,  and  say,  We  are 
talking  to  our  Father  in  heaven.  How  many  of  you  have  called  on 
your  little  boy  or  girl,  and  said,  "Will  you  lead  us  in  prayer  to-night? 
The  tears  almost  come  to  your  eyes  to  hear  a  little  child  ask  the  Lord 
to  bless  some  one  near  to  their  heart,  to  bless  Brother  Smith  who  is 
sick,  bless  my  little  companion,  make  him  well,  Father,  that  we  may 
play  together."  Is  that  prayer  worth  anything  to  hear  from  your 
little  boy? 

I  beseech  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  encourage  it.  I  be- 
seech of  you  to  teach  your  children  correct  principles.  Teach  them 
the  laws  of  God ;  teach  them  that  he  has  revealed  those  laws  for 
their  development  and  for  the  building  up  of  his  Church  and  kingdom. 
Of  course,  that  is  a  very  important  thing,  but  the  great  thing  in 
their  lives  is  to  teach  them  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  those  means  that  are  absolutely  necessary 
in  order  to  come  into  God's  Church,  and  these  are  the  things  that 
are  absolutely  necessary  to  come  into  their  lives  that  they  may  be 
strengthened  and  developed  and  prepared  to  meet  their  neighbors  as 
they  live  here,  and  to  meet  eternal  beings  and  exaltation  in  the  here- 
after. 

I  wonder  how  many  of  you,  mothers,  are  kind  to  your  girls !  I 
wonder  how  many  mothers  are  able  to  set  aside  some  of  the  affairs  of 
life,  to  take  a  few  minutes  to  talk  to  their  girls.  How  many  fathers 
are  willing  to  put  their  arms  around  them,  and  ask  them  what  their 
troubles  are?  Do  you  encourage  that  confidence,  do  you  make  the 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Wjay  open  and  pleasant  that  they  can  come  and  talk  to  you  ?  You  know 
sometimes  we  get  in  the  habit  of  kissing  our  boys  and  girls.  I  don't 
know,  but  I  feel  it  is  a  very  sweet  ending  of  the  day  when  one  of  my 
boys  or  girls  comes  to  me  at  night  and  gives  me  a  good-night  kiss.  O 
what  it  is  to  encourage  these  young  people  that  God  has  blessed  us 
with  and  placed  in  our  hands  to  raise. 

A  very  unfortunate  thing  occurred  once  in  my  experience  of 
some  28  years  in  the  bishopric  in  the  ward  where  I  lived.  A  beautiful 
young  lady  came  to  the  house  one  night,  and  she  said :  "Bishop,  1 
would  like  to  go  to  the  temple."  It  has  been  my  habit  to  talk  to  boys 
and  girls  when  they  are  going  to  the  temple,  and  try  to  impress 
upon  them  the  importance  of  that  great  principle  that  has  come  into 
their  lives,  and  offer  to  them,  if  possible,  words  of  encouragement. 
This  young  lady,  after  carefully  questioning  her  as  to  whether  her 
life  was  such  that  she  felt  that  she  could  go  to  the  house  of  the 
Lord  and  receive  the  sacred  blessings  that  are  given  there,  broke 
down  and  began  to  cry.  I  said,  "My  girl,  what  is  the  matter  ?"  She 
sobbed.  I  said,  "Can't  you  tell  me  what  is  the  matter?"  I  said,  "Does 
your  mother  know  of  your  trouble?"  She  said,  "No,  I  can't  tell  her, 
it  would  kill  mo'her."  I  said.  "You  have  told  me,  and  I  am  almost 
a  stranger  to  you."  She  said,  "Yes,  but  I  can't  tell  mother."  I  said, 
"Is  it  possible  that  your  mother  is  not  close  enough,  that  she  is 
not  the  one  to  go  to  with  all  your  troubles?"  She  said,  "I  can't  tell 
my  mother."  I  said,  "Yes,  I  will  tell  your  mother."  She  said,  "Don't.' 
I  ,said,  "Yes,  I  will."  I  said,  "You  go  and  tell  your  mother,  and  then 
come  and  tell  me."  She  came  back  to  see  me  the  next  day.  The 
mother,  a  very  proud,  demanding  woman,  came  and  asked  me  why 
I  talked  to  her  daughter  as  I  had  talked.  I  bad  her  sit  down,  and 
I  told  her  the  story.  She  started  to  fly  at  the  girl.  I  said,  "One 
moment,  if  there  is  ever  a  time  in  her  life  that  she  needs  a  mother, 
needs  the  sweet  influence  of  a  mother,  it  is  now.  Now,  I  pray  you, 
not  one  harsh  word  to  that  beautiful  girl,  whatever  you  do,  and 
whatever  she  has  been  doing.  I  am  not  criticising  you  before  your 
girl,  but  I  pray  you,  put  your  arms  around  that  girl,  and  make  her 
life  sweet  and  wholesome."  I  was  very  happy  to  meet  her  a  year 
or  two  afterward. 

It  is  only  one  of  the  things  that  come  up.  And  while  we  are 
criticising  our  boys  and  girls,  I  want  to  ask  the  parents  in  all  sin- 
cerity, in  all  the  fervor  of  my  soul,  are  we  doing  our  part?  Are  we 
able  to  say  we  are  doing  what  we  ought  to  do?  If  we  are,  then  God 
will  help  us.  Sorrows  and  trials  will  come,  we-  cannot  stop  them.  But 
let  us  remember  the  beautiful  things  we  have  heard  during  this 
conference.  O  God,  help  us  to  live  for  the  things  that  we  know 
are  true.  Let  us  stand  true  to  the  obligations  that  we  have  entered 
into,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES  GUNN  MCKAY 


155 


ELDER  JAMES  GUNN  McKAY 

{Recent  President  of  the  Combined  London,  Norwich  and  Bristol 

Conferences) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  very  glad!  to  ibe  with  -  you  here  in 
conference.  I  am  happy  to  feel  the  inspiration  that  is  attending 
this  conference,  and  know  that  God  is  attending  this  people.  I  know 
that  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart.  I  know  that  from  all  the  experience 
that  I  have  had  in  this  Church.  There  are  no  doubts  in  my  mind 
concerning  this  fact,  that  this  is  God's  church,  and  that  he  is  guiding 
its  destiny,  not  only  its  destiny  but  its  officers,  and  what  they  teach 
and  direct  his  people. 

When  called  to  the  British  mission  I  had  occasion  to  find  out 
that  its  late  president,  Hyrum  M.  Smith,  was  a  chosen  vessel  of  the 
Lord  to  preside  over  that  mission,  when  the  great  war  broke  out,  well 
nigh  .engulfing  all  the  European  missions,  I  know  of  no  man  among 
all  the  authorities  of  the  Church  that  could  have  stood  against  that 
great  wave  of  excitement  .and  held  those  missions  together,  as  well 
as  that  great  son  of  God,  Hyrum  M.  Smith.  He  stood  as  a  stone  wall 
against  the  excitement  and  the  fears  of  the  Saints  and  the  elders. 
AVhen  the  time  came  to  close  that  mission  he  had  the  inspiration 
upon  him.  He  was  qualified  although  his  difficulties  were  great, 
yet  he  was  able  to  rise  to  every  occasion.  Soon  the  time  came  when 
those  elders  who  were  under  his  administration  "were  to  be  released, 
and  we  were  pondering  our  hearts  who  was  the  one  who  should  preside 
over  the  European  mission  to  succeed  President  Smith.  Soon  the  word 
came  that  Elder  George  F.  Richards  was  to  be  appointed.  I  had 
occasion  to  say  that  God  is  guiding  this  Church,  and  whoever  is 
appointed,  that  man  is  fitted  for  the  time  and  place.  In  the  course  of 
time,  President  Richards  came.  He  was  the  one  who  had  to  gather  in 
the  local  people,  and  place  them  as  presidents  of  branches  and  other 
officers.  He  was  the  man  who  was  qualified,  by  his  experience  and  his 
makeup  and  his  care  and  caution,  full  of  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord, 
to  meet  the  conditions  under  which  he  was  called  to  preside.  Not 
only  that.  When  he  went  about  his  duties,  you  could  see  as  he  went 
into  a  conference  how  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  rested  upon  him,  and 
when  he  suggested  a  local  man  for  a  position  that  required  experience 
and  understanding,  you  could  not  have  suggested  a  better  man  than 
he  chose  under  those  conditions  and  circumstances,  and  he  could 
not  have  chosen  a  better  man  for  that  place.  It  shows  quite  well, 
that  even  this  people  are  not  guiding  themselves,  neither  are  their 
officers  guiding  this  people  through  their  reason,  '{but  they  are  re- 
ceiving inspiration,  as  they  are  entitled  to,  to  lead  this  people. 

When  President  Richards  was  about  to  be  released,  of  course 
all  were  excited.  There  weren't  very  many  of  us  elders.  We  wondered 
who  would  be  the  man  for  that  purpose.  Well,  when  the  cable  came, 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

that  President  George  Albert  Smith  was  appointed,  we  knew  at  once 
that  the  way  was  opening  for  the  missions  to  be  rejuvenated  again. 
There  was  no  better  man.  And  I  want  to  say  this,  I  may  not  be 
able  to  attend  his  funeral — he  may  live  longer  than  I,  so  I  am 
going  to  give  him  a  few  bouquets  now.  I  believe  in  that.  I  don't 
know  that  corpses  care  very  much  for  flowers.  President  George 
A.  Smith  came  over  there  and  under  his  training  men  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth  were  led.  He  was  able  to  go  among  those 
officials,  he  was  able  to  procure  concessions  and  permits  for  the 
elders  to  come,  because  he  was  a  man  best  qualified,  in  my  judgment 
among  all  the  authorities  of  the  Church  to  preside  over  that  great 
mission  at  that  particular  time.  Look  at  the  wonderful  work  that 
he  accomplished.  There  were  only  a  few  elders  there.  The  way  seemed 
to  be  hedged  up,  and  yet  he  came  imbued  with  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord,  and  .was  able  to  knock  at  the  doors  of  the  officials,  to  gain 
their  confidence ;  and  eventually  we  obtained  the  privileges  we 
wanted,  that  elders  might  come  to  take  up  their  work  and  fulfil  their 
missions  in  furthering  the  cause  of  God  and  accomplishing  his  work, 
and  in  that  way  he  secured  to  us  a  testimony  that  God  directs  that 
work. 

There  are  some  who  ridicule  and  say  our  officers  are  appointed 
by  the  wisdom  and  favoritism  of  men.  I  want  to  tell  you  if  there 
are  such  cases  they  are  few  in  this  Church.  If  a  man  is  living  as 
he  should  live,  he  is  entitled  to  go  before  the  Lord  and  ask  him  for 
what  he  needs,  what  knowledge  he  may  desire,  and  the  Lord  will 
place  it  in  his  way. 

I  remember  on  one  occasion  when  President  Smith  came  to  Lon- 
don to  appoint  a  new  conference  president.  He  had  written  to  me 
.  about  the  elders  there,  and  finally  he  came ;  and  we  met  together 
to  counsel  over  the  matter.  He  said  he  thought  so-and-so  is  the  man, 
and  you  know  that  man's  name  had  been  in  my  mind  ever  since 
I  had  begun  to  pray  about  the  matter.  He  had  prayed  also,  and  the 
Lord  had  designated  to  him  the  man  who  was  to  preside.  That  man 
was  chosen,  and  he  has  made  a  wbnderful  success,  and  is  still 
there.  I  know  the  Lord  does  not  make  mistakes. 

My  good  father  labored  in  the  Southern  states.  When  he  was 
released,  the  President  said,  "You  are  now  appointel  to  go  to  Scotland." 
My  father  said  to  himself,  "A  man  should  not  he  appointed  to  go  on 
two  missions  without  going  home."  So  he  went  into  the  woods  and 
praved,  to  learn  if  it  was  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord  that  he 
should  go  to  Scotland  'before  returning  home.  When  he  prayed  the 
third  time,  the  word  of  the  Lord  came  to  him,  "The  words  of  my 
seivants  unto  you  are  my  words;  do  as  they  instruct  you,  and  my 
blessings  shall  attend  you."  He  made  his  way  to  New  York  and  there 
met  John  Henry  Smith.  He  said,  "I  am  not  prepared,  Brother  Smith, 
tf  go.  I  havn't  any  means.  I  have  been  preaching  in  the  south  without 
purse  or  scrip."  Brother  Smith  said.  "Come  with  me."  They  went  into 


ELDER  JAMES  GUNN  MCKAY 


157 


a  large  mercantile  house.  He  met  the  manager.  The  manager  patted 
my  father  on  the  back,  and  said,  "I  want  you  to  try  on  a  new  overcoat, 
that  we  have  in  the  office."  He  said,  "I  haven't  seen  you  before,  but  I 
want  you  to  take  that  overcoat  with  my  compliments."  Father  had 
been  praying  that  his  way  should  be  opened  up.  His  passage  across 
the  ocean  was  paid  by  strangers.  So  I  say,  we  are  not  left  alone. 
We  are  not  left  in  doubt,  and  if  any  of  you  are  left  in  Idoubt  concern- 
ing the  counsel  of  the  authorities  of  this  Church,  and  you  will  obtain 
his  mind  and  will  in  no  uncertain  terms.  Just  as  sure  as  the  Latter-day 
Saints  will  seek  God  they  will  be  guided  aright,  and  they  will  know 
that  the  Lord  has  placed  the  right  man  in  the  right  place.  I  know  that 
God  lives,  and  that  I  can  approach  him,  and  that  I  can  receive 
answers  from  him,  as  I  have  done  in  many,  many  cases.  Missionaries 
have  a  great  many  experiences  which  teach  them  these  things. 

There  was  an  elder  who  was  sent  for  by  two  companions  who 
were  in  trouble.  He  was  running  to  catch  the  train,  the  station  master 
saw  him  and  held  the  door  of  the  car  open  as  the  train  left  the  station ; 
but  as  soon  as  this  elder  got  to  the  door  something  said  to  him,  "Don't 
go."  He  stopped.  The  station  master  said,  "Why  don't  you  go?  You 
have  run  two  or  three  blocks;  you  are  the  strangest  men  on  earth, 
you  'Mormons',  I  don't  know  what  is  the  matter  with  you.  Why,  you 
have  come  running  down  here  out  of  breath,  and  just  when  you  see 
your  way  clear  to  go  on,  you  are  not  going."  He  said,  "I  know  where 
you  will  end  your  days  if  you  are  not  careful."  The  elder  took  the  next 
train,  and  later  that  day  he  found  that  the  train  which  he  had  refused 
to  board  had  broken  through  a  bridge  and  every  soul  had  perished. 
Had  he  not  listened  to  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  had  he  not 
been  guided  by  a  heavenly  influence,  he,  too,  would  have  been 
one  of  the  victims.  See  how  an  elder  may  be  guided  by  inspiration. 
God  help  us  that  we  may  feel  that  inspiration  that  is  in  his  Church, 
and  if  we  do  not  feel  it,  let  us  get  in  tune  with  it,  for  God  is 
speaking  unto  his  people,  privately  and  otherwise ;  and  if  you  have 
not  a  testimony,  seek  him  that  you  may  obtain  it,  just  like  Samuel 
said  when  the  Lord  called  him,  "Samuel,  Samuel,"  three  times.  Samuel 
arose  and  said,  "Speak ;  for  thy  servant  heareth."  The  Lord  is  anxious 
>o  speak  to  us  through  the  means  that  he  has.  We  need  to  be  in 
communication  individually  with  the  Lord  as  well  as  with  the  author- 
ities of  the  Church,  that  we  may  have  inspiration,  that  we  may  have 
the  blessings  and  the  gifts  of  God  with  us  continually. 

It  is  well  enough  to  read  the  story  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob ; 
but  to  sit  at  a  table  of  spiritual  feasting,  to  dine  with  the  Lord  on 
a  few  of  the  things  that  you  know  have  come  from  heaven  direct 
is  worth  all  of  the  scriptures,  valuable  as  the  scripture  may  be;  and 
if  you  have  not  had  that,  and  if  your  testimony  has  not  been  added 
upon  and  added  upon,  I  beseech  you  to  turn  that  door  that1  Heaven  may 
speak  to  you  in  your  work  and  in  your  life,  so  that  you  will  have 
hc  doubt  that  God  has  established  his  Church  never  to  be  thrown  down. 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

t 

/ 

May  we  fulfil  our  covenant.  May  we  feel  this  inspiration  in  our 
lives,  for  this  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  have  rejoiced  today,  as  I  have  during-  the  other  days  of 
our  conference,  in  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  has  been  poured 
out  upon  the  people.  It  has  been  a  time  of  feasting-  to  me,  greet- 
ing my  friends  and  looking  into  the  faces  of  men  and  women 
who  have  come  to  wait  upon  the  Lord. 

THE    WORLD    IGNORANT    OF    CONDITIONS    CONFRONTING  IT. 

I  am  thankful  that  we  are  not  in  doubt  as  to  what  the  at- 
titude of  our  heavenly  Father  is  toward  his  children,  and  I  am 
thankful  that  those  who  have  been  called  to  address  us  in  this 
conference  have  been  inspired  to  tell  us  things  that  give  us 
courage  and  hope.  The  people  of  this  world,  generally  speak- 
ing, are  not  aware  of  the  real  condition  that  confronts  them,  but 
you  have  been  advised  of  what  awaits  you.  You  have  heeded 
the  call  and  have  partaken  of  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  and 
many  of  you  have  received  a  witness  that  your  action  is  ap- 
proved of  the  Lord.  The  brethren  who  have  addressed  you  this 
afternoon  have  borne  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work ; 
but  the  most  important  testimony  to  you,  the  most  important 
testimony  to  me,  is  that  individual  witness  that  comes'  to  us 
that  we  have  done  well,  and  that  we  feel  that  our  heavenly 
Father  has  approved  our  action. 

OUR  RELIGIOUS  BELIEF. 

We  believe  in  God  the  eternal  Father  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost.  That  is  not  incomprehensible 
to  us.  It  has  been  made  plain  to  us,  that  these  are  the  Godhead 
that  we  worship.  We  believe  that  our  Redeemer  has  revealed 
himself  to  the  children  of  men  in  the  days  that  are  past,  that 
the  Old  and  New  Testaments  contain  his  wise  counsels,  and  in 
addition  to  that,  we  believe  that  he  revealed  himself  to  the  people 
who  dwelt  on  this  Western  continent  after  his  resurrection.  The 
Savior  appeared  and  directed  the  organization  of  his  Church 
in  the  western  hemisphere,  as  he  had  done  in  the  eastern  hemi- 
sphere. We  believe  that  our  heavenly  Father  has  spoken  in  our 
own  day  also,  that  he  heard  the  humble  prayer  of  a  youth  in 
Palmyra,  and  answered  his  prayer  and  blessed  him  with  a  knowl- 
edge of  his  personality,  that  all  people  might  know  the  Lord,  if 
they  will. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


159 


NATURAL  THAT  THE  PROPHET  JOSEPH  SHOULD  SEEK  THE  LORD. 

It  was  a  very  natural  thing  that  Joseph  Smith  should  seek  the 
Lord.  He  came  of  a  race  of  people  who  believed  in  our  heavenly 
Father,  in  the  divine  mission  of  the  Savior,  in  the  efficacy  of 
prayer,  and  that  Gbd  would  hear  and  answer  his  people  if  they 
went  before  him  with  a  proper  spirit.  It  was  easy  for  this  young 
man  to  believe,  because  he  had  been  born  and  reared  in  a  be- 
lieving household ;  and  when  he  went  out  into  the  woods  in 
response  to  the  injunction  of  the  scripture  (James  1:5):  "If  any 
of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not ;  and  it  shall  be  given  him,"  he 
believed  that  his  prayer  would  be  answered,  and  our  heavenly 
Father  has  promised  his  children  from  the  beginning,  that,  "by 
faith  ye  may  know  all  things."  The  result  was  that  wonderful 
manifestation,  unlike  any  other  that  we  have  ever  heard  of  in 
the  history  of  the  world.  We  have  heard  of  instances  where  our 
heavenly  Father  has  manifested  himself;  we  have  read  of  in- 
stances where  the  Redeemer  of  mankind  has  manifested  him- 
self; but  we  have  never  read  of  any  instance  where  the  Father 
and  the  Son  before  have  appeared  to  any  living  being  and  have 
spoken  to  that  individual.  People  of  the  world  do  not  believe 
it.  Men  and  women  have  been  taught  that  the  heavens  are 
sealed.  They  have  accepted  the  scripture  because  they  have 
been  taught  that  the  Bible  is  the  word  of  the  Lord.  Many  of 
our  Father's  children  have  never  given  thought  to  the  teach- 
ings of  the  Lord,  and  when  this  youth  declared  that  in  our  day, 
at  the  very  time  when  we  needed  light  most  of  all,  when  men 
and  women  were  running  to  and  fro  for  the  word  of  God  and 
could  not  find  it,  as  predicted  by  the  old  prophets,  the  Lord 
had  manifested  himself,  he  was  ridiculed.  Faith  prompted  Joseph 
to  seek  God  in  prayer  and  ask  which  church  he  should  identify 
himself  with.  What  was  the  response?  Did  the  Lord  say,  "My 
boy,  they  are  all  good,  they  are  all  striving  to  keep  my  com- 
mandments, the  men  who  are  leaders  of  all  these  churches  are 
approved  of  me,  any  church  will  do,  they  will  all  lead  you  back 
into  the  presence  of  our  heavenly  Father?'*  The  boy  might  have 
expected  such  an  answer  from  the  conditions  that  existed.  But 
he  wanted  to  know  what  to  do,  and  he  had  full  faith  that  the 
Lord  would  tell  him.  So  when  he  prayed,  he  asked  which  of 
the  churches  he  should  join,  and  I  presume  he  was  astonished 
when  our  heavenly  Father  said  to  him,  "Join  none  of  them ;  they 
teach  for  doctrine  the  commandments  of  men ;  they  draw  near 
to  me  with  their  lips  but  their  hearts  are  far  from  me;  they 
have  a  form  of  godliness,  but  deny  the  power  thereof."  Think 
of  a  boy  fourteen  years  of  age  arising  from  his  knees  in  the 
woods  near  his  home  and  announcing  to  the  world  such  a  mess- 
age at  that!  Can  you  imagine  that  a  youth  would  have  dared 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  do  such  a  thing  as  that?  But  with  the  witness  that  had  been 
given  unto  him  by  his  heavenly  Father,  with  that  command- 
ment from  the  Lord  himself,  dared  he  do  anything  else  than  make 
the  announcement  that  the  Lord  had  spoken  to  him?  It  is  true, 
his  statement  was  rejected,  and  those  who  should  have  been  his 
friends  turned  away  from  him  and  even  said  it  was  of  the  evil 
one.  What  was  the  boy's  testimony? 

So  it  was  with  me.  I  had  actually  seen  a  light,  and  in  the  midst  of  that 
light  I  saw  two  personages,  and  they  did  in  reality  speak  to  me;  and 
though  I  was  hated  and  persecuted  for  saying  that  I  had  seen  a  vision,  yet 
it  was  true;  and  while  they  were  persecuting  me,  reviling  me,  and  speak- 
ing all  manner  of  evil  against  me  falsely  for  so  saying,  I  was  led  to  say  in 
my  heart:  Why  persecute  me  for  telling  the  truth?  I  have  actually  seen 
a  vision,  and  who  am  I  that  I  can  withstand  God,  or  why  does  the  world 
think  to  make  me  deny  what  I  have  actually  seen?  For  I  had  seen  a  vision; 
I  knew  it,  and  I  could  not  deny  it,  neither  dared  I  do  it,  at  least  I  knew 
that  by  so  doing  I  would  offend  God,  and  come  under  condemnation. 

THE  RESULTS  OF  JOSEPH'S  VISION. 

What  of  the  results?  From  that  boy  who,  at  fourteen  years 
of  age,  beheld  the  Father  and  the  Son,  there  came  that  wonder- 
ful message  that  our  Father  in  heaven  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
are  glorified  men.  That  the  Savior  of  the  world  had  been  resur- 
rected from  the  dead;  that  youth  beheld  what  the  world  had 
known,  but  for  some  reason  had  forgotten,  and  he  began  bearing 
witness  of  it  to  the  children  of  men.  He  went  about,  perform- 
ing his  duty,  and  in  due  time,  by  the  power  of  God  translated 
and  gave  to  the  world  the  Book  of  Mormon,  a  faith-promoting 
record,  second  to  none.  Under  the  direction  of  the  Lord  he 
organized  the  Church  with  the  same  officers  that  were  placed 
in  it  in  Judea.  The  Lord  recognized  and  approved  them.  He 
directed  those  possessing  divine  authority,  to  confer  it  upon  them, 
and  by  his  instruction  the  Church  was  organized  in  the  year 
1830.  From  that  time  it  has  continued  to  grow.  The  people 
of  the  world  have  generally  refused  to  recognize  this?  Church 
as  divine.  All  the  so-called  Christian  churches  have  been  allied 
against  it.  What  have  been  the  results?  By  the  thousands,  men 
have  accepted  the  truth  and  have  been  willing  to  go  into  the  world 
bearing  their  testimony  of  it,  paying  their  own  expenses,  working 
without  money,  trusting  in  God,  the  eternal  Father,  to  lead  them 
on  their  way.  Why  do  this?  Because  that  testimony  was  burned 
into  their  souls.  Would  brethren  and  sisters  have  filled  missions 
in  the  world,  have  departed  from  their  homes,  left  their  loved  ones,  and 
gone  into  the  world  without  purse  or  scrip,  or  paying  their  own 
way,  had  they  not  known,  as  you  know,  that  our  heavenly  Father  would 
reward  them  for  it  ?  The  result  of  this  work  has  been  marvelous 
in  its  development,  despite  the  opposition  of  all  the  forces  of 
the  world.    Our  Father  in  his  mercy,  has  led  this  people  over  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


161 


many  snares  and  pitfalls  that  the  adversary  has  prepared.  The 
world  have  seen  the  development  of  the  Church  and  they  have  mar- 
veled, and  people  have  said,  "What  has  made  its  people  what  they 
are?"  The  answer  comes  ringing  true,  because  it  is  our  Father's 
work,  and  no  power  on  the  earth  can  stay  its  progress. 

OUR   GRATITUDE  DUE  TO   FATHER   IN  HEAVEN. 

Oh,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  those  who  have  received  the 
same  witness  that  God  has  burned  in  upon  my  soul,  be  grateful  and 
show  it  by  your  lives.  You  men  and  women  who  have  been  gathered 
from  the  nations  of  the  earth  as  a  branch  from  the  burning,  be  sure 
that  you  are  mindful  of  his  glorious  gift  unto  you,  and  that  you 
are  indeed  grateful  unto  him. 

We-  will  not  be  popular  with  those  who  are  unrighteous.  This 
Church  is  opposed  by  the  same  power  that  sought  the  life  of  the 
Savior,  it  has  followed  the  prophets  of  this  dispensation,  and  many 
of  you  have  lived'  to  see  the  hand  of  the  Lord  as  he  has  thwarted 
the  powers  of  evil  that  they  have  not  been  able  to  overthrow  this 
work.  I  am  grateful  for  the  knowledge  that  has  come  to  me.  I 
am  not  dependent  upon  the  testimony  of  anybody  else.  It  is  not 
necessary  that  my  brethren  and  sisters  declare  this  work  to  be 
true.  But  it  is  music  to  my  ears  when  they  do  so.  From  my  child- 
hood I  have  sought  to  serve  the  Lord ;  from  my  youth.  I  have  been 
taught  to  keep  his  commandments.  And  since  I  have  been  called 
into  the  ministry  I  have  sought  to  do  what  the  Lord  would  have 
me  do,  making  mistakes  as  others  make  mistakes,  but  through  it 
all  I  have  had  the  sure  witness  that  my  heavenly  Father  knows 
I  was  trying  to  do  my  best,  and  have  felt  all  the  time  that  he  would 
preserve  me,  if  I  would  honor  him  and  magnify  those  whom  he  has 
called  to  preside  over  this  Church.  I  have  known  that  by  obedience 
to  his  teachings  to  the  children  of  men,  no  power  could  stay  the 
effort  that  I  was  making,  and  that  in  the  end'  I  would  obtain  eternal 
life.    That  has  been  my  testimony. 

THE   SWEETEST    TESTIMONY    OF  ALL. 

We  have  listened  to  a  variety  of  narratives,  but  I  want  to  say, 
the  testimony  that  is  sweetest  of  all  to  me  is  the  testimony  that  my 
Father  lives,  and  that  he,  my  heavenly  Father,  has  placed  this  work 
on  the  earth,  that  he  has  called  men  to  act  in  his  name,  and  that 
all  men  who  will  believe  and  comply  with  the  requirements  of  the 
gospel  will  eventually  be  redeemed  in  his  presence  and  obtain  glory, 
immortality  and  eternal  life. 

What  can  we  give  in  return  for  that  wonderful  information 
that  has  come  to  us?  I  feel  as  humble  as  a  little  child,  and  I  am 
grateful  that  at  my  time  of  life  (and  I  have  passed  the  meridian) 
I  see  more  clearly  than  I  have  ever  seen  before,  our  Father's 
love  and  mercy  extended  toward  the  children  of  men. 


162  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

COMFORTING  TESTIMONY. 

I  testify  that  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  of 
Nazareth  is  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  and  there  is  no  other  name 
under  heaven  whereby  we  may  gain  a  salvation  but  his.  And  there 
is  no  way  by  which  we  can  obtain  an  exaltation  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom of  God  but  by  obeying  the  laws  and  ordinances  that  he  has 
laid  down.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  living 
God.  He  gave  his  life  as  his  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  gospel, 
and  it  will  be  borne  to  all  the  world.  He  was  a  prophet,  and  those 
who  have  succeeded  him  have  been  prophets.  President  Grant  is 
a  man  of  God,  and  I  desire  to  sustain  him  and  hold  up  his  hands 
that  all  Israel  may  be  blessed  by  his  ministry,  and  I  say  that  every 
man  and  woman  who  will  do  that  will  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the 
Almighty. 

This  is  our  Father's  work.  He  has  pointed  out  the  way  where- 
by we  may  gain  an  exaltation.  He  has  organized  his  Church.  He 
has  instituted  the  authority  of  this  Church  in  his  own  way,  and  all 
the  wisdom  of  the  world  cannot  change  it,  and  all  the  opposition 
of  this  world  cannot  overthrow  it. 

A  PRAYER  FOR  PEACE,  LOVE  AND  ORDER. 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  find  place  in  the  hearts 
of  the  children  of  men,  that  in  the  great  gathering  about  to  be 
held  in  the  city  of  Washington  the  representatives  of  the  nations  may 
be  inspired  to  so  organize  and  so  arrange  that  many  of  the  evil 
conditions  in  this  world  may  be  set  aside,  and  that  the  awful  ca- 
lamity that  befell  us  in  the  late  war  may  not  be  repeated.  It  is  our 
duty  to  pray  for  good  men  and  wise  men,  and  to  hold  up  their  hands 
in  their  attempts  to  perpetuate  peace  and  law  and  order  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth. 

Now  any  man  who  refuses  to  assist  in  carrying  into  effect  the 
constitutional  law  of  the  land  not  only  is  he  a  lawbreaker  in  the 
sense  that  he  consents  to  things  that  are  evil,  but  I  want  to  say 
that  he  is  in  opposition  to  the  will  of  our  heavenly  Father.  (Read 
Section  134  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.) 

May  God  add  his  blessing.  May  peace  be  in  the  homes  and  at 
the  firesides  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  When  conference  clones, 
let  all  return  to  our  homes  determined  that,  "As  for  me  and  my 
house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord."  And  if  we  will  do  that,  the  blessing 
of  the  Almighty  will  rest  upon  us,  Zion  will  arise  and  shine,  she 
will  put  on  her  beautiful  garments,  and  all  the  world  will  turn 
their  faces  to  the  land  where  men  are  keeping  the  commandments 
of  God.  That  this  may  be  our  happy  lot,  and  that  we  may  be  worthy 
of  the  blessings  that  are  bestowed  upon  us  by  our  Father  in  heaven, 
is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON  163 

The  general  authorities  of  the  Church  were  presented  and 
unanimously  sustained  as  in  the  Tabernacle. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Glory  to  God  in  the  highest." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Charles  W.  Hatch, 
late  President  of  the  Birmingham  conference,  England. 


FOURTH  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  fourth  overflow  meeting  was  held  out  of  doors  near  the 
Bureau  of  Information,  Sunday  afternoon,  October  9,  1921.  Elder 
Charles  A.  Callis,  President  of  the  Southern  States  mission,  pre- 
sided. Tracy  Y.  Cannon  acted  as  chorister,  and  Frank  W.  Asper 
as  organist  and  accompanist. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed 
with  Jehovah." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

The  Pioneer  double  mixed  quartette,  directed  by  Tracy  Y. 
Cannon,  and  consisting  of  William  Cook,  Anna  Dillmor,  Fred  W. 
Weight,  Carry  Christensen,  Wilford  Keddington,  Ralph  Sperry, 
Bertha  Harbrecht,  and  Isabel  Donaldson,  sang,  "Grant  us  peace." 

ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON 

(Former  President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission) 

I  assure  you  it  is  a  great  pleasure  to  meet  you  on  this  occasion, 
and  to  associate  with  my  brethren  in  the  declaration  and  defense  of 
the  truth,  and  to  enjoy  this  opportunity  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters;  because  that  testimony  which  has  been 
borne  under  the  guidance  and  direction  of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  or  that  public  commitment  of  one's  feelings  before  one's  brethren, 
adds  strength  to  one  to  resist  the  temptations  which  beset  mortal 
men,  as  perhaps  no  other  one  thing  will  do. 

While  upon  my  mission  in  the  east,  and  after  a  street  service,  an 
under-professor  of  Columbia  University  asked  how  it  was  that  in  a 
recent  visit  to  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  he  found  so  many  people  who 
were  set  upon  living  religious  lives.  I  explained  to  him  the  peculiar 
organization  of  the  Church,  showing  that  we  had  not  a  paid  ministry, 
who  were  to  mould  public  sentiment  and  to  give  counsel  and  instruc- 
tion pertaining  to  one's  conduct  in  life;  but  that  in  the  services 
held  among  our  people  we  had  the  peculiarity  of  calling  men  from 
the  congregation  to  give  a  reason  for  the  hope  within  them.  He  saw 
our  point  of  view,  that  while  one  individual  who  may  rest  in  comfort 
upon  the  rear  seat  in  one  of  our  gathering  places;  one  Sunday,  another 


164 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


next  to  him,  may  be  called  upon  to  address  the  congregation;  and  one 
who  has  committed  himself  in  public  utterance  goes  away  with  a 
determination  to  live  the  life  which  he  has  declared  it  was  his  deter- 
mination to  live. 

I  care  not  how  little  or  how  much  one  may  speak,  if  but  for  a  short 
time,  and  he  expresses  his  desire  to  be  honest,  truthful,  virtuous,  posses- 
sed of  loving  kindness,  neighborly,  I  believe  that  the  Lord  has  made  it 
impossible  for  him  thus  to  commit  himself  in  his  public  utterances, 
and  go  straightway  from  the  meeting,  be  dishonest,  unvirtuous,  profane, 
or  to  be  anything  except  that  which  he  has  asked,  through  the  assistance 
of  the  Lord  and  the  faith  and  prayers  of  his  fellowmen,  to  be.  And 
further,  the  individual  who  remained  upon  his  seat,  not  halving  been 
called  upon,  naturally  realizes  that  he  is  a  part  of  this  peculiar  organ- 
ization, that  if  they  have  called  upon  his  neighbor  this  time,  they  may 
call  upon  him  next  time,  hence,  he  also  commences  his  reform,  there  and 
then,  else  when  he  stands  before  the  public,  he  may  stand  with  apolo- 
gies written  on  his  countenance,  because  the  people  with  whom  he 
has  associated  know  his  life,  and  it  is  ill  becoming  of  one  whose 
life  is  not  what  it'  should  be  to  stand  as  an  instructor  of  righteousness. 
My  mind  turns  to  section  68  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which 
contains  the  doctrine  quite  distinct  of  itself,  and  in  contradistinction 
to  the  religions  of  the  world: 

My  servant,  Orson  Hyde,  was  called  by  his  ordinance  to  proclaim  the 
everlasting  gospel,  by  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God,  from  people  to  people, 
and  from  land  to  land,  in  the  congregations  of  the  wicked,  in  their  syna- 
gogues, reasoning  with,  and  expounding  all  Scriptures  unto  them. 

And.  behold,  and  lo,  this  is  an  ensample  unto  all  those  who  were  or- 
dained unto  this  Priesthood,  whose  mission  is  appointed  unto  them  to  go 
forth; 

And  this  is  the  ensample  unto  them,  that  they  shall  speak  as  they  are 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 

And  whatsoever  they  shall  speak  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  mind  of  the 
Lord,  shall  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  and  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation: 

Behold  this  is  the  promise  of  the  Lord  unto  you,  O  ye  my  servants; 

Wherefore  be  of  good  cheer,,  and  do  not  fear,  for  I  the  Lord  am  with 
you,  and  will  stand  by  you;  and  ye  shall  bear  record  of  me,  even  Jesus 
Christ,  that  I  am  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  that  I  was,  that  I  am,  and  that 
I  am  to  come. 

This  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  unto  you  my  servant,  Orson  Hyde,  and 
also  unto  my  servant  Luke  Johnson,  and  unto  my  servant  Lyman  Johnson, 
and  unto  my  servant  William  E.  M'Lellin,  and  unto  all  the  faithful  elders 
of  my  Church. 

What  wonderful  power  is  here  portrayed  as  being  possessed  by 
one  who,  under  the  inspiration  of  Almighty  God,  can  hear  testimony 
!hat  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  which  testimony  can  only  come  from  a 
possession  of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  God  which  leads  into  all  truth.  How 
different  from  that  system  which  depends  upon  an  education,  a  college 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON 


165 


training,  a  university  atmosphere,  carried  by  the  individuals  who 
occupy  the  pulpits  of  the  world.  How  much  'better  it  is,  and  I  am  sure 
that  you  agree  with  me,  to  sit  and  listen  to  the  word  of  the  Lord 
for  but  a  brief  period,  wheri  spoken  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord, 
than  to  hear  the  empty  eloquence  of  one  who  has  paid  more  attention 
to  rhetoric  than  to  truth. 

As  Latter-day  Saints,  we  must  not  fall  into  the  ways  of  the 
world.  I  would  not  have  it  understood)  that  I  am  against  preparation — 
because  I  am  for  preparation,  and  I  do  not  believe  that  the  Lord  can 
direct  a  good  sermon  from  an  empty  mind.  I  believe  that  it  is 
necessary  for  one  to  devote  himself  to  prayerful  study;  that  the  Holy 
Spirit  of  God  may  be  enjoyed  in  the  interpretation  which  one  finds 
in  the  study  room,  as  well  as  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  when,  in 
public,  he  declares  the  truth. 

When  I  was  a  child  attending  the  Primary  association,  we  were 
taught  to  sing  a  little  kindergarten  song— I  am  not  sure  that  it  is 
not  taught  now ;  in  fact,  some  of  my  children  sing  it : 

I  think  when  I  read  that  sweet  story  of  old, 

When  Jesus  was  here  among  men, 
How  he  called  little  children  as  lambs  to  his  fold, 
I  should  like  to  have  been  with  him  then. 

I  wish  that  his  hand  had  been  placed  on  my  head, 
That  his  arm  had  been  thrown  about  me, 
.    That  I  might  receive  his  kind  looks  when  he  said, 
"Let  the  little  ones  come  unto  me." 

O,  how  I  longed  for  a  time  when  I  might  receive  these  favors; 
how  I  yearned  for  the  knowledge  of  that  which  I  had  not,  of  having 
been  associated  personally  with  him  when  he  walked  upon  the  earth  and 
mingled  with  men!  I  thought  no  greater  people  could  ever  have  lived 
than  those  who  lived  during  the  time  of  Christ.  But  I  have  learned 
different.  I  have  reached  the  conclusion  that  this  is  the  choicest  time 
for  one  to  live:  when  the  Holy  Spirit  abounds,  and  is  free  for  all 
who  will  conform  to  the  requirements  under  which  it  is  enjoyed.  Think 
of  Peter,  faithful  though  impetuous  Peter,  who  rubbed  shoulders 
with  his  Master;  who  stood  side  by  side  with  him  when  scorn  was 
hurled  by  the  enemy;  when  he  boasted  of  his  own  strength,  "If  all 
depart  from  thee,  yet  will  I  stand  with  thee."  The  Savior  saw  the 
boastfulness  of  his  nature  and  warned  him  and  said,  "Before  the  cock 
shall  crow,  thou  shalt  deny  me  thrice."  When  Jesus  was  taken  into 
the  court  of  Herod,  where  a  fire  perhaps  was  built  to  light  the  night, 
Peter  skulked  along  the  shadow  of  the  wall ;  he  wanted  to  be  with 
his  Savior,  but  his  own  strength  failed  him,  and  when  a  little  maiden 
pointed  out  and  said  that  he  was  with  the  Savior,  Peter  denied  it. 
Wlitn  they  asked  him  to  say  certain  words  which,  because  of  his 
peculiar  tongue,  he  could  not  say,  then  they  accused  him  again,  and 
lie  cursed  and  swore  and  said  he  did  not  know  the  Savior.  That  was 
after  he  had  rubbed  shoulders  with  the  Master.  But  did  Peter  ever 


166 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


deny  Christ  after  the  promise  of  the  Comforter  had  come  upon  him, 
after  he  had  tarried  in  Jerusalem  to  receive  the  same?  No;  and  we 
are  told  in  tradition  that,  at  the  close  of  his  life,  when  he  was  sentenced 
by  Roman  power  to  give  his  life  for  his  testimony,  and  was  to  he 
crucified,  as  was  the  custom  of  the  Romans  to  mete  out  capital  punish- 
ment, he  said,  "I  am  not  worthy  to  be  crucified  as  my  Lord  and  Master 
was  crucified ;  let  me  be  crucified  with  my  head  downward,"  because 
he  had  denied  the  Christ.  Such  was  the  valor,  such  was  the  courage, 
such  was  the  testimony  of  Peter  when  the  Spirit  of  God  came,  like 
the  cloven  tongue  of  fire  upon  them  during  the  Pentecost,  and  after- 
ward in  his  life,  when  he  devoted  himself  to  the  work  of  the  ministry 
in  feeding  the  sheep!  "Feed  my  lambs,"  he  had  been  admonished 
by  the  Savior. 

New,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  have  we  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
in  our  l.'earts,  and  in  our  homes?  If  not,  is  it  not  time  we  were  putting 
them  in  order,  in  order  that  the  living  testimony  of  Jesus  may  be  found 
abiding  in  our  homes,  and  in  our  daily  conduct  in  life;  for,  after  we 
have  been  forgiven  of  our  sins  through  baptism,  through  obedience 
in  baptism,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  comes  as  an  attestation  from  our 
Father  that  our  lives  are  approved  of  him,  whatsoever  our  conduct 
may  have  been  in  the  past.  "When  ye  shall  receive  the  companionship 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  then  know  ye  that  God  has  forgiven 
our  sins."  And  when  you  have  not  that  Spirit,  then  it  is  time  to 
bow  in  sackcloth  and  ashes,  repent  and  secure  that  Spirit,  so  that 
when  we  are  called  from  time  to  time,  we  may  speak  that  which 
will  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  that  which  will  be  scripture,  that 
which  will  be  the  mind  of  the  Lord,  that  which  will  be  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation. 

I  have  a  testimony  in  my  heart  of  the  truthfulness  of  this  work, 
and  I  bear  it  to  you  in  all  sincerity  that,  as  I  know  anything  in 
life,  I  know  that  the  gospel  is  true,  and  that  it  will  serve  the  greatest 
human  need  today  upon  all  the  face  of  the  earth.  May  God  help 
us  to  apply  the  principles  of  the  gospel  in  our  daily  lives,  that  we  may 
be  found  faithful,  full  of  zeal,  full  of  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  and  the 
love  of  our  fellow  men,  and  dwell  in  the  confidence  of  God,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

{President  of  the  Mexican  Mission) 

Ye  are  the  salt  of  the  earth;  but  if  the  salt  have  lost  his  savor,  where- 
with shall  it  be  salted?  it  is  thenceforth  good  for  nothing,  but  to  be  cast 
out,  and  to  be  trodden  under  foot  of  men. 

Ye  are  the  light  of  the  world.    A  city  that  is  set  on  a  hill  cannot  be  hid. 

Neither  do  men  light  a  candle,  and  put  it  under  a  bushel,  but  on  a  can- 
dlestick; and  it  giveth  light  unto  all  that  are  in  the  house. 

Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see  your  good 
works,  and  glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT  W 

Think  not  that  I  am  come  to  destroy  the  law,  or  the  prophets:  I  am 
not  come  to  destroy,  but  to  fulfil. 

For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  Till  heaven  and  earth  pass,  one  jot  or  one 
tittle  shall  in  no  wise  pass  from  the  law,  till  all  be  fulfilled. 

Whoever,  therefore,  shall  break  one  of  these  least  commandments,  and 
shall  teach  men  so,  he  shall  be  called  the  least  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven: 
but  whosoever  shall  do  and  teach  them,  the  same  shall  be  called  great  in  the 
kingdom  of  heaven. 

For  I  say  unto  you,  that  except  your  righteousness  shall  exceed  the 
righteousness  of  the  scribes  and  Pharisees,,  ye  shall  in  no  case  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  heaven. 

These  are  the  words  of  our  Savior,  spoken  to  those  who'  believed' 
on  his  name  when  he  administered  among  men.  There  is  no  difference, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  gospel  message  delivered  to  all  the 
world  by  the  Savior  and  his  disciples  in  that  dispensation,  and  the 
gospel  message  delivered  to  the  world  by  the  Savior  through  his 
prophets  and  disciples  in  this  dispensation ;  and  the  requirements 
placed  upon,  the  Saints  of  that  former  dispensation  were  no  greater 
than  the  requirements  placed  upon  the  Saints  in  the  dispensation  in 
which  we  live.  We  are  told  the  position  that  we  occupy,  the  position 
of  being  the  "salt  of  the  earth" — a  very  necessary  article — and  we 
are  admonished  that  if  we  are  not  the  salt  of  savour,  we  are  unfit 
to  be  used  and  only  fit  to  be  cast  out  and  trodden  under  foot  of  men. 
And  we  are  told  furthermore  in  this  scripture  that  I  have  read,  that  if 
our  righteousness  does  not  exceed  the  righteousness  of  the  scribes 
and  the  Pharisees,  or  the  world  that  surrounds  us,  we  can  in  no 
case  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  called  a  peculiar  people  in  the  world; 
those  who  come  up  to  Zion  and  visit  upon  this  block  and  learn  the 
story  of  "Mbrmonism"  first-hand,  and  learn  of  the  lives  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  are  led  to  exclaim,  "They  are  a  peculiar  people." 
And  it  is '  right  that  we  should  be  peculiar,  for  truly  we  could  not 
follow  these  admonitions,  and  not  be  a  peculiar  people.  Our  peculiar- 
ity consists  of  the  fact  that  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  are  righteous  in  excess  of  any  other  people  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth ;  and  I  want  to  tell  you  that  that  man  who  claims 
membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  whose  righteousness  does 
not  excel  the  righteousness  of  the  world,  is  not  one  hundred  per 
cent  Latter-day  Saint,  and  save  he  repents,  he  can  in  no  case  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

We  have  a  message  of  life  and  salvation  to  declare  unto  the 
children  of  men,  and  from  the  very  incipiency  of  this  work,  the 
missionary  spirit  has  rested  upon  the  membership  of  this  Church ; 
and  when  our  grandfathers,  who  composed  the  membership  of  this 
Church,  numbered  only  a  few,  they  were  called  and  sent  forth  into 
the  world  to  declare  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation  unto  the  children  of 
men.  They  went  to  preach  a  righteousness  in  excess  of  the  righteous- 
ness enjoyed  in  the  world  and  the  churches  thereof ;  and  their  mes- 


168 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sage  was,  as  was  the  message  of  the  disciples  and  apostles  of  old,  "Re- 
pent ye,  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand."  The  gospel  is  commit- 
ted again  unto  man.  It  is,  as  has  been  quoted  to  you  this  afternoon, 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  and  it  is  unto  all  men  everywhere. 
And  for  ninety  years,  this  message  has  been  going  forth ;  it  is 
going  forth  today ;  and  many  hundreds  of  thousands  have  been  gathered 
out,  and  they  have  made  their  lives  better;  they  have  made  their 
lives  sweeter  and  cleaner,  and  they  have  attained  a  righteousness  in 
excess  of  that  which  they  enjoyed  before;  and  though  many  of 
those  who  have  been  gathered  out  were  good,  honorable  people,  in 
whose  hearts  there  was  a  desire  to  serve  the  Lord,  nevertheless, 
because  of  lack  of  opportunity  to  know  him  and  to  know  the  truth 
of  the  everlasting  gospel,  they  were  not  able  to  serve  the  Lord  in 
full  purpose  of  heart,  but  through  the  gospel  teachings,  they  have 
been  permitted  to  learn  more  and  to  attain  more,  and  consequently 
are  better.  And  woe  unto  us  as  a  people,  or  as  individuals,  when 
it  may  be  said  of  us  that  our  righteousness  is  not  in  excess  of  the 
righteousness  of  the  people  of  the  world  of  men  who  suround  us ! 

It  has  been  my  privilege  for  fifteen  years  consecutively,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  engaged  in  the  ministry  abroad,  and  il  have 
come  in  contact  with  the  world,  and  have  learned  the  condition 
that  exists  in  the  world  today ;  for  while  many  are  accepting  the 
truth,  and  many  are  being  brought  out  and  are  enjoying  these  blessings 
that  I  speak  of,  still  the  great  majority  of  men  everywhere  are  not 
inclined  toward  God ;  they  are  not  seeking  after  him ;  they  are  not 
striving  ta  serve  him  in  full  purpose  of  heart. 

On  the  third  and  fourth  of  last  month,  I  held  conference  with 
our  elders  who  were  laboring  in  the  city  of  San  Antonio,  Texas. 
We  had  an  admirable  conference  among  the  Mexican  people  there, 
but  we  found  people  disposed  not  only  to  dispute  us,  not  only  to 
argue  with  us,  but  actually  to  break  up  our  meetings  and  to  divert 
our  message,  and  if  possible,  thwart  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  in  the 
declaration  of  the  truth  to  the  people  of  that  city.  In  one  of  our 
sessions,  there  filed  into  our  meeting  seven  ministers  of  different 
denominations,  leagued  together,  as  I  learned  afterwards,  with  the 
avowed  intention  of  heckling  us  and  breaking  up  our  meeting.  They 
started  it,  but  by  the  power  of  the  Lord,  we  were  able  to  quell  them 
and  we  were  able  to  preach  the  gospel.  I  suppose  that  the  Spirit  of  'the 
Lord  rested  in  such  power  upon  us  that  they  could  not  but  feel  it.  The 
result  was  that  though  they  came  to  molest  they  marched  away  when 
the  services  were  over,  without  even  trying  to  carry  into  effect  that 
which  they  had  come  to  do. 

I  walked  up  and  down  the  streets  of  San  Antonio  between  the 
afternoon  meeting  and  a  meeting  that  we  held  with  the  English  speak- 
ing people  at  night,  and  I  felt  very  depressed.  I  saw  the  throngs  going 
hither  and  thither,  bound  upon  pleasure;  and  this  Scripture  that  I 
shall  read  to  you  kept  repeating  itself  in  my  mind. 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


169 


This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days  perilous  times  shall  come. 

For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud, 
'blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parents,  unthankful,  unholy,, 

Without  natural  affection,  truce-breakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent, 
fierce,  despisers  of  those  that  are  good, 

Traitors,  heady,  highminded,,  lovers  of  pleasures  more  than  lovers  of 
God; 

Having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  denying  the  power  thereof:  from  such 
turn  away.     (2  Tim.  3:1-5.) 

I  saw  them  seek  after  pleasure;  I  saw  that  they  were  without 
natural  affection;  I  saw,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  through  their  dress, 
through  their  conduct,  and  through  snatches  of  conversations  that  I 
overheard  on  the  street  and  in  the  hotel  lobbies  that  they  are  unclean, 
they  are  immoral;  and  as  I  walked  down  to  the  hall  where  the  meet- 
ing was  to  be  held,  I  felt  an  impending  spirit  of  gloom,  I  recalled,  as  I 
have  told  you  this  afternoon,  that  the  gospel  message  of  necessity 
must  be  preached  by  this  people  in  all  the  world,  and  I  also  read  that 
the  Lord  has  said  that  after  the  testimony  of  his  servants,  shall  come 
the  testimony  of  pestilence,  wars,  bloodshed,  famine,  floods,  and  of 
diverse  things  that  shall  take  away  the  lives  of  men.  Well,  I  left  San 
Antonio  the  next  day,  but  I  was  led  to  remark  in  my  talk  that  night 
in  San  Antonio  that  I  feared  that  the  judgments  of  God  would  be 
poured  out  upon  the  specific  city  of  San  Antonio  if  they  did  not  repent 
of  their  sins ;  and  it  was  only  five  days  until  the  lobby  of  the  hotel  in 
which  I  had  stayed,  held  many  feet  of  water.  Thousands  of  people 
were  left  homeless.  Millions  of  dollars  of  treasure  were  swept  away: 
and  hundreds  of  lives  were  lost. 

I  want  to  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  living 
in  -'.  day  of  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophecies  of  the  Lord,  and  I  do  not 
esteem  it  a  mere  chance  that  that  seven  inches  of  water  in  one  afternoon 
fell  upon  San  Antonio  and  that  vicinity.  I  take  it — because  I  felt  it 
coming  before  it  came — that  it  was  the  judgment  of  God  calling 
those  wicked  people  to  repentance.  I  do  not  take  it  that  there  was  not 
enough  room  in  Texas  for  that  flood  to  have  fallen  outside  of  San 
Antonio,  if  the  Lord  had  wanted  it  to.  Neither  do  I  take  it  that  there 
could  not  have  been  another  place  in  Colorado  where  the  floods  could 
have  come  that  destroyed  the  city  of  Pueblo  and  the  people  thereof.  And 
I  want  to  tell  you  that  they  are  the  judgments  of  the  Lord,  and  I  look 
forward  to  a  greater  demonstration  of  them  in  the  future. 

It  is  our  duty,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  fulfil  the  obligations 
resting  upon  us.  The  decree  has  gone  forth  that  every  knee  shall  bow 
and  every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  it  will  come. 
Whether  it  will  come  because  they  accept  the  testimony  of  the 
servants  of  the  Lord,  or  whether  they  toe  brought  low  by  the  judgments 
of  God,  the  people  of  this  world  will  acknowledge  him  and  bow  in 
reverence  and  worship  before  him. 

The  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  perform  our  part.  You,  fathers 
and  mothers  of  the  missionaries,  the  Lord  bless  you  and  make  you  feel 


170  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

your  true  positions  in  this  great  work.  We  mission  presidents  cannot 
begin  to  do  it;  we  need  the  assistance  of  your  sons,  and  we  and  your 
sons  cannot  do  it  all  without  the  assistance  of  you  parents.  Sustain 
them,  encourage  them,  sacrifice,  if  need  be,  to  aid  them,  and  the  Lord 
will  bless  you,  and  I  promise  you  that  sacrifice  in  this  direction  will 
bring  forth  the  blessings  of  heaven  to  you.  God  grant  it  unto  you  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  double  quartette  sang,  "Christian,  the  morn  breaks  o'er 
thee." 

ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH 

(President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission) 

In  standing  before  you  today,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  and  en- 
deavoring to  give  you  something  that  will  be  of  benefit  to  you,  I  must 
ask  for  your  faith  and  your  prayers,  for  I  realize  that  without  them 
it  will  not  be  possible  for  me  to  give  you  anything  worth  while,  and  that 
with  them,  and  with  the  sustaining  power  of  the  Almighty,  the  words 
I  may  be  given  to  say  will  be  of  great  benefit  to  you. 

I  endorse,  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart,  the  remarks  of  the  speakers 
who  have  preceded  me,  and  as  I  have  listened  to  them  and  have  heard 
their  words  of  encouragement,  yea  their  words  of  prophecy,  I  have 
marveled  at  the  blessings  of  our  heavenly  Father  and  the  wonderful 
power  that  he  gives  to  his  servants,  when  they  are  called  to1  perform 
a  duty  and  when  they  surrender  themselves  to  him.  It  has  been  my 
lot,  and  no  doubt  the  lot  of  many  of  you,  to  hear  the  learned  divines 
of  the  world  in  their  studied  discourses,  preaching  along  the  lines  of 
ethics  and  morals,  and  even  along  the  lines  of  religion,  as  far  as 
they  understand  it;  and  I  have  wondered  frequently  that  they  have 
given  so  little.  Only  recently  I  read  a  many-paged  address  of  the 
most  prominent  bishop  of  one  of  the  best  known  of  the  Protestant 
churches,  and  I  sat  with  my  pencil  in  my  hand  to  mark  passages  that 
might  be  of  interest  and  of  value  to  me,  and  when  I  had  finished  this 
sermon  and  glanced  back  to  see  where  I  had  markel  it,  I  discovered 
I  had  underscored  two  lines,  which  afterwards  I  noticed  were 
quotations  from  an  old  history.  I  compare  things  of  this  kind  with  the 
wonderful  power  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  with  the  masterful,  pow- 
erful, spiritual  addresses  that  you  have  listened  to  during  this 
conference,  and  there  comes  to  my  mind  this  passage  in  the  first  chapter 
of  Corinthians: 

For  ye  see  your  calling,  brethren,  how  that  not  Many  wise  men  after 
the  flesh,  not  many  mighty,,  not  many  noble,  are  called: 

But  God  hath  chosen  the  foolish  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the 
wise;  and  God  hath  chosen  the  weak  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the 
things  which  are  mighty; 

And  base  things  of  the  world,  and  things  which  are  despised,  hath  God 
chosen,  yea,  and  things  which  are  not,  to  bring  to  nought  things  that  are. 


I 


ELDER  WIN  SLOW  FARR  SMITH  171 

And  as  I  pondered  this  thought,  my  mind  reverted  to  that  won- 
derful manifestation  of  the  power  of  the  Almighty,  of  one  hundred 
years  ago.  When  the  hour  had  struck,  when  the  time  was  there,  when 
the  earth  was  ready  for  God  once  more  to  reveal  his  mighty  work, 
in  place  of  going  into  the  universities  and  the  schools  and  among 
the  learned  divines,  he  went  into  the  back  woods  of  the  state  of  New 
York,  and  chose  that  unschooled  boy,  raised  him  up,  and  gave  to  him 
such  marvelous  knowledge,  light,  and  wisdom,  that  the  influence  of 
his  work  is  going  to  all  the  corners  of  the  earth.  The  peoples  of  the 
world  are  taking  notice  and  are  adopting,  one  by  one,  the  principles 
that  this  boy  prophet,  of  the  nineteenth  century  gave  to  the  world. 

This  thing  called  "Mormonism"  is  a  divine  thing;  it  is  a  most 
powerful  thing,  and  its  potency  grows  day  by  day.  Its  influence 
is  being  felt,  and  the  world  is  being  made  better  because  of  these  men 
and  these  women  who  put  themselves  in  tune  with  God.  And  when  they 
are  in  tune  with  him,  through  obeying  his  laws,  they  receive  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  having  received  this  most  blessed  boon  from  our  Father, 
disseminate  its  blessings  and  wonderful  gifts  in  all  the  world. 
This  is  the  work  of  God ;  he,  the  Almighty  one,  is  with  it ;  he  has 
placed  it  on  the  earth  for  a  definite  purpose ;  and  in  place  of  the 
creeds  of  the  present  day,  the  creeds  which  the  people  find  uncom- 
forting  ond  unsatisfying,  he  has  placed  the  gospel  of  Christ  in  its 
fulness,  and  he  has  charged  his  people  to  carry  it  unto  the  whole 
world  and  to  preach  to  all  the  children  of  men  this  wonderful  gospel 
cf  the  kingdom,  that  they  may  work  out  their  own  salvation,  that 
they  may  prepare  themselves  for  eternal  life,  and  that  in  preparing 
themselves,  they  may  find  joy  and  comfort  and  gifts  and  blessings 
here  and  now  in  mortality. 

Why,  do  you  know,  my  friends,  to  the  average  Christian  person, 
religion  does  not  mean  very  much?  It  is  a  kind  of  life-buoy 
a  kind  of  a  fire-escape,  a  kind  of  a  something  that  will 
save  him  from  going  to  hell.  But  to  a  Latter-day  Saint  who  studies 
his  religion  who  knows  what  it  is,  and  who  lives  righteously  before 
God,  there  comes  into  his  life  a  most  wonderful,  blessed  knowledge 
of  what  the  gospel  really  is  and  there  unfolds  before  him  a  most 
beautiful  philosophy  of  life,  life  here  and  life  hereafter.  He  finds 
comfort  in  his  efforts  to  progress  and  he  enjoys,  day  by  day,  the  bless- 
ings of  God. 

Now  it  must  appeal  to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  when 
that  unknown  boy,  unschooled  in  the  theologies  of  the  world,  announced 
these  most  marvelous  truths,  that  in  and  of  himself  without  the 
help  of  God,  he  could  not  have  done  what  he  did.  It  must  appeal 
to  you  that  with  him  there  was  a  higher  power,  and  as  you  meditate 
his  eventful  life  and  ponder  his  most  marvelous  work,  truly  it  must 
burn  itself  into  your  soul  that  this  work  performed  'by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  the  restoring  of  the  gospel,  is  not  the  work  of  man,  but 
the  work  of  Almighty  God. 


172  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  story  in  scripture  where  the  Apostle  Peter 
and  his  associates  had  been  cast  into  prison  because  of  their  preach- 
ing Christ  and  him  crucified,  and  how  in  their  power  they  continued 
their  work,  how:  they  were  miraculously  released  from  prison,  and 
they  went  forth  and  preached  again.  And  they  were  called  before 
the  high  priests  and  the  doctors  of  the  law  again  to  be  tried. 

Then  stood  there  up  one  in  the  council,  a  Pharisee,  named  Gamaliel, 
a  doctor  of  the  law,  had  in  reputation  among  all  the  people,  and  commanded 
to  put  the  apostles  forth  a  little  space; 

_  And  he  said  unto  them,  Ye  men  of  Israel,  take  heed  to  yourselves  what 
ye  intend  to  do  as  touching  these  men. 

For  before  these  days  rose  up  Theudas,  boasting  himself  to  be  some- 
body; to  whom  a  number  of  men,  about  four  hundred,  joined  themselves: 
who  was  slain;  and  all,  as  many  as  obeyed  him,,  were  scattered,  and  brought 
to  nought. 

And  after  this  man  rose  up  Judas  of  Galilee,  in  the  days  of  the  taxing, 
and  drew  away  much  people  after  him:  he  also  perished;  and  all,  even  as 
many  as  obeyed  him,  were  dispersed. 

And  now  I  say  unto  you,  Refrain  from  these  men,  and  let  them  alone: 
for  if  this  counsel  or  this  work  be  of  men,  it  will  come  to  nought: 

But  if  it  be  of  God,  ye  cannot  overthrow  it;  lest  haply  ye  be  found  even 
to  fight  against  God. 

! 

I  might  say  that  these  words  of  Gamaliel  are  just  as  potent 
today  as  they  were  when  they  were  uttered,  two  thousand  years  ago. 
With  this  latter-day  work,  we  know  God  raised  up  a  prophet  and 
followed  him  with  other  prophets,  men  to  lead,  to  guide,  to  instruct 
his  people;  and  when  this  work  commenced,  it  was  the  work  of  God, 
and  though  it  has  been  opposed  for  one  hundred  years,  though  it  has 
been  fought  against,  though  the  people  have  used  their  mightiest 
weapons  and  the  best  brains  of  the  world  have  combatted  it,  it 
stands  today  and  will  stand  a  monument  to  Almighty  God.  It  will 
continue  to  grow,  and  ultimately  it  will  triumph,  for  it  is  the  work  of 
God.  This  is  my  testimony  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 

(President  of  ihe  Eastern  States  Mission). 

My  Brethren  and  Sisters:  I  would  much  prefer  to  have  listened 
to  my  brethren  talk,  but  since  the  duty  is  put  upon  me,  I  cheerfully 
respond ;  but  I  beseech  you,  sustain  me  by  your  faith  and  prayers 
that  my  remarks  may  be  directed  by  the  proper  spirit. 

This  is  the  first  time  I  have  had'  the  opportunity  of  addressing 
a  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  open  air.  It  would  be 
considered  by  me  a  most  glorious  privilege  to  stand  before  such  an 
intelligent  congregation  of  non-believers  but  I  confess  that  I  am  a  little 
nervous  in  standing  before  my  brethren  and  sisters. 

However,  I  know  that  God  lives  and  that  he  will  make  no 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 


173 


requirements  at  the  hands  of  his  servants  except  he  provides  a  way 
and  gives  them  the  strength  and  ability  to  perform;  the  duty  acceptably, 
provided  they  put  their  trust  in  him.  Therefore  I  assure  you  I  stand 
before  you  in  the  name  of  our  heavenly  Father  with  an  earnest  desire 
to  bless  and  encourage  you. 

I  have  enjoyed  very  much  the  remarks  of  our  brethren,  and  the 
spirit  of  our  meeting  thus  far,  and  throughout  the  entire  conference 
which  we  have  attended  in  the  past  few  days.  I  feel  the  instructions 
have  been  very  timely,  and  desire  in  my  heart  to  live  them  more 
perfectly  in  the  future.  What  a  wonderful  people  and  community  we 
would  be  if  we  would  sustain  one  another  loyally,  and  sustain  our 
home  industries  loyally,  as  suggested  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  in  his 
remarks  at  the  first  session  of  our  conference. 

President  Grant's  remarks  regarding  our  patronizing  home  in- 
dustry brought  to  my  mind  experiences  of  recent  years  during  which 
time  I  labored  throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  inter-mountain 
country  striving  to  persuade  the  people  to  be  loyal  to  one  another  and 
sustain  themselves  by  patronizing  home  industry.  My  labors  were 
quite  generously  rewarded  for  which  I  am  very  grateful  to  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  because  it  is  through  their  patronage  of  home 
industry,  to  a  certain  extent,  that  I  am  now  able  to  maintain  myself 
while  doing  missionary  work.  Nevertheless,  I  am  confident  of  the 
fact  that  we  could  all  improve  a  great  deal  in  our  attitude  towards 
home  industry,  and  thus  add  very  materially  to  the  general  prosperity 
of  our  great  state.  I  was  greatly  surprised  to  find  that,  in  many 
instances,  it  was  necessary  to  give  the  merchants  some  slight  advantage 
in  order  to  induce  them  to  handle  the  home  products,  they  were  not 
willing  to  give  it  an  equal  show  with  the  imported  article.  It  almost 
seems  like  we  are  prone  to  give  goods  manufactured  outside  our 
state  the  advantage,  which  is  very  inconsistent  when  you  stop  to  think 
of  it.  Every  time  we  buy  an  article  manufactured  in  Utah,  we  are 
helping  to  give  employment  to  our  brethren  and  sisters,  our  neighbors 
and  friends,  our  fellow  citizens,  and,  as  explained  by  President  Grant, 
in  the  Tabernacle  yesterday  morning,  every  dollar  thus  put  into 
circulation  in  our  midst  enriches  the  community  many  times  its 
value  by  paying  many  obligations. 

I'm  sure  the  results  would  astonish  us  if  we  would  be  absolutely 
loyal  to  home-industry  for  a  brief  period.  For  illustration :  we  manu- 
facture in  Utah  a  very  good  grade  of  overalls,  than  which  there  is  noth- 
ing better  made  in  the  United  States.  Now  if  only  fifty  per-cent  of  the 
overalls  consumed  in  the  state  of  Utah  were  the  home  product  it  would 
be  necessary  for  both  the  Z.  C.  M.  I.  factory,  and  also  the  Scowcroft 
factory  at  Ogden,  to  double  their  capacity ;  in  other  words,  if  the 
people  of  Utah  would  be  absolutely  loyal  to  home  industry  as  pertain- 
ing to  overalls,  the  state  would  sustain  at  least  four  big  factories 
instead  of  two  small  ones  and  thus  give  employment  to  hundreds 
of  women  at  good  wages.  The  same  thing  applies  to  other  articles  made 


174 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


within  our  state.  I  know  from  experience  it  brings  a  high  sense  of 
satisfaction  to  patronize  home  industry,  it  gives  one  a  sense  of  a 
clear  conscience,  and  he  is  able  to  look  his  fellow  citizens  right  in 
the  face. 

On  one  occasion  I  labored  earnestly  with  a  prominent  merchant 
of  the  state  trying  to  pursuade  him  to  handle  the  home  product  in 
preference  to  the  imported,  without  success,  until  I  observed  that  a  great 
many  of  the  checks  issued  to  our  employees  in  the  factory  were 
cashed  at  this  merchant's  store.  When  this  merchant  saw  the  large 
percentage  of  these  factory  checks  endorsed  by  his  firm  he  began  to 
see  the  light ;  he  realized  that  he  had  been  standing  in  his  own  light 
and  henceforth  became  a  loyal  booster  of  home-made  overalls.  Per- 
sonally I  prefer  our  home  products,  even  at  a  higher  price  than 
the  imported,  if  necessary  to  pay  it ;  however,  as  a  rule,  the  home  pro- 
duct is  able  to  compete  with  the  imported  goods  in  price  as  well  as 
in  quality ;  therefore,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  most  heartily  endorse 
the  remarks  of  President  Grant  as  pertaining  to  home  industry,  and 
I  know,  that  you  and  I  and  every  citizen  of  this  inter-mountain  country 
will  feel  well  in  loyally  patronizing  our  home  industries  and  thus 
doing  our  bit  to  sustain  one  another.  This,  like  all  unselfish  service 
rendered  our  fellow-men,  in  the  final  analysis,  rebounds  to  our  own 
good. 

Now,  I  had  not  intended  speaking  along  this  line,  but  I  hope 
you  will  accept  of  the  remarks  I  have  made  in  the  spirit  thereof, 
they  are  given  in  the  spirit  of  love,  with  a  desire  to  help  build  up 
Utah,  the  Queen  of  the  West. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  as  a  people  we  do  not 
fully  comprehend  the  strength  of  our  position  in  'the  world,  nor  do 
we  comprehend  the  great  responsibility  placed  upon  us  nor  the  power 
or  God's  holy  Priesthood.  It  behooves  us  to  bring  up 'our  children  with 
a  more  comprehensive  understanding  of  the  gospel  of  our  Redeemer, 
that  they  might  go  into  the  world  better  qualified  to  explain  its  glorious 
principles.  We  are  recipients  of  all  blessings  which  the  rest  of  the 
world  possess,  and  in  addition  we  have  the  power  of  Almighty  God 
within  us,  given,  through  the  holy  Priesthood.  A  great  responsibility 
is  upon  us.  Our  missionaries  are  accomplishing  a  wonderful  work, 
but  if  we  could  send  them  forth  better  equipped  the  results  of  their 
labors  would  be  much  more  satisfactory.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
of  which  we  have  been  made  happy  partakers,  has  all  the  saving  powers 
within  it  and  will  save  us  temporally,  morally,  physically,  intellectually, 
as  well  as  spiritually,  and  the  whole  world  is  starving  for  these  redeem- 
ing principles.  We  must  go  forth  and  proclaim  these  glorious  truths 
earnestly  to  all  the  world,  manifesting  the  fruits  of  our  religion  in  our 
lives,  both  at  home  and  abroad  and  never  be  found  tearing  down  that 
which  the  world  is  doing. 

The  spirit  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  is  not  one  of  negation  but  a 
constructive  plan  of  redemption  which  if  adhere  to  will  save  us  now, 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 


175 


not  at  some  far  off  time  but  now,  and  eternally  just  as  fast  as  we 
incorporate  these  glorious  principles  in  our  daily  lives.  Now  I  would 
not  have  you  understand  that  I  am  preaching  the  doctrine  so  com- 
monly taught  in  the  world  that  belief  alone  will  save  us;  if  our  belief 
is  sincere  and  leads  us  to  do  the  things  which  our  Master  has  com- 
manded we  shall  work  out  our  salvation,  just  as  quickly  as  we  accept 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  our  lives.  However, 
this  does  not  mean  that  we  cannot  sin  as  taught  by  many  professed 
Christians  throughout  the  world. 

One  of  the  conditions  upon  which  the  Savior's  plan  of  redemp- 
tion was  accepted  by  the  hosts  of  heaven  was  that  we  should  have 
our  free  agency  while  in  mortality,  and  while  in  is  true  we  can  become 
strongly  fortified  against  sin  by  right  living  and  by  constantly  resist- 
ing evil,  it  is  not  a  fact  that  we  cannot  sin.  This  brings  to  my 
mind  an  experience  while  laboring  as  a  missionary  in  England,  years 
ago.  On  one  occasion  I  approached  a  door  where  I  was  graciously 
received  by  a  very  intelligent-looking  woman.  After  listening  to  my 
story,  she  smiled  upon  me  and  said  that  both  she  and  her  husband  were 
saved,  and  had  been  for  a  number  of  years,  that  they  had  Christ  within 
their  hearts  and  could  not  sin.  I  labored  very  hard  to  show  this  good 
woman  that  she  was  mistaken  and  that  we  were  all  susceptible  to  sin- 
ning while  in  mortality,  but  she  got  quite  offended  when  I  disputed 
her  statement  that  she  could  not  sin;  however,  apparently  I  made  no 
impression  upon  the  good  woman,  hut  I  learned  afterwards  that  at  the 
very  moment  while  I  was  at  the  door  talking  to  this  woman  her 
husband  was  on  his  way  to  London  with  his  neighbor's  wife,  having 
eloped  with  her. 

I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  that  doctrine,  "By  grace 
are  ye  saved,"  as  it  is  being  interpreted  by  the  world  is  a  pernicious  one, 
it  puts  a  premium  upon  indolence,  and  is  quite  contrary  to  the  spirit  of 
the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer  as  we  understand  it.  There  is  much 
for  us  to  do,  in  fact  the  Savior  has  given  us  the  opportunity  of  working 
out  our  salvation  and  in  my  mind  the  essence  of  the  gospel  of  our 
Redeemer  is  work  and  therein  will  we  find  joy  and  satisfaction. 

I  am  sure  that  when  life's  book  is  opened  before  us  we  shall  be 
judged  according  to  our  works,  and  woe  be  unto  the  indolent  and  sloth- 
ful, those  who  have  been  deceived  by  these  pernicious  doctrines  which 
n  lakes  religion  easy  for  people  who  have  become  lovers  of  pleasure 
more  than  lovers  of  God.  One  of  the  universal  or  most  commonly 
accepted  teachings  among  the  Christian  world  which  we  have  to  contend 
with  today  is  this  idea  that  we  are  saved,  that  there  is  nothing  for  the 
individual  to  do,  any  attempt  to  add'  to  what  the  Savior  already  has 
done  for  us  is  sin.  The  followers  of  this  idea  are  very  set  in  their  notion, 
we  are  seldom  able  to  make  any  impression  upon  them.  They  have 
certainly  been  deceived  by  the  powers  of  the  evil  one. 

I  am  very  glad  to  report  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
missionary  work  is  going  along  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  Of  course, 


176 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


we  regret  the  loss  of  so  many  missionaries  due  to  financial  depressions 
in  the  west,  but  notwithstanding  this  we  are  able  to  show  a  splendid 
increase  in  missionary  activities.  We  are  having  some  wonderful  ex- 
periences, our  workers  are  finding  great  joy  and  satisfaction  in  their 
labors,  and  the  Lord  is  blessing  their  efforts.  These  young  missionaries 
are  showing  the  fruits  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  their  living,  while 
out  in  the  mission  field,  and  I  hope  you  good  friends  will  encourage 
them  to  continue  on  in  the  same  way  after  they  return.  Two  of  our 
elders  recently  had  a  very  interesting  experience,  showing  how  the 
fruits  of  the  gospel  are  made  manifest  in  the  lives  of  men.  It  seems 
that  these  two  elders  had  interested  in  their  teachings,  a  young  man 
and  his  wife  who,  finding  themselves  unable  to  refute  the  teachings 
of  the  elders,  had  appealed  to  the  young  man's  father,  who  happened 
to  be  the  leading  minister  of  their  town,  but  to  the  young  man's 
astonishment  he  found  that  his  father  was  unable  to  explain  the 
scriptures  as  clearly  as  the  "Mormon"  missionaries,  notwithstanding 
his  father  was  a  man  of  degree  while  the  "Mormon"  elders  were  not  so 
well  equipped  with  education  of  a  worldly  nature,  but  they  were  com- 
missioned of  the  Lord  to  teach  and  preach  the  gospel  of  our  Redeemer. 

It  seems  that  this  young  man  desired  to  have  his  father  meet  the 
'"Mormon"  elders,  but  the  father  was  indignant  at  his  son's  request,  he 
thought  it  an  insult  to  ask  him  with  all  his  learning,  to  meet  and 
discuss  the  gospel  with  these  illiterate  "Mormons."  However,  the  young- 
man  planned  to  have  the  missionaries  chance  to  drop  into  his  home 
at  the  same  time  his  father  was  there  partaking  of  dinner,  this 
proved  te>  be  a  wonderful  opportunity  for  the  young  man  and  his 
wife  to  have  all  their  questions,  which  had  accumulated  in  weeks  past, 
answered  to  their  entire  satisfaction,  and  apparently  the  minister  was 
unable  to  explain  the  scripture  to  the  satisfaction  of  this  good  young 
man.  In  due  time  the  reverend  gentleman  found  himself  badly  concerned 
and  as  is  often  the  case  he  flew  into  a  rage  and  began  to  curse  every- 
body in  general  and  the  "Mormons"  in  (particular.  At  this  point  the 
young  man  arose  and  said  emphatically,  "If  this  is  the  fruit  of  the  gos- 
pel you  teach,  Father,  I  want  none  of  it,"  and  he  turned  to  the  young 
missionaries  and  said  they  had  manifested  the  fruits  of  the  true  gospel  of 
our  Redeemer,  patience,  love,  kindness,  and  he  expressed  a  desire 
to  have  strength  and  fortitude  to  accept  the  true  gospel,  which  he  did 
in  a  very  short  time  afterwards,  and  he  is  now  a  very  devout  Latter-day 
Saint  and  is  very  happy  notwithstanding  he  has  been  disinherited  and 
disowned  by  his  parents. 

It  is  indeed  a  very  interesting  sight  to  see  men  of  high  learning 
and  men  of  real  ability  lose  their  nerve  and  their  heads  when  attempt- 
ing to  question  the  humble  "Mormon"'  missionaries ;  on  many  occasions 
I  have  seen  the  scriptures  literally  fulfilled  wherein  it  was  said,  through 
one  of  God's  holy  prophets,  that  the  Lord  would  confound  the  wisdom 
of  the  wise  with  the  weak  things  of  the  earth,  etc. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  young  couple  as  I  have  just 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  McCUNE 


177 


stated,  were  made  exceedingly  happy  through  accepting  the  gospel 
of  our  Redeemer.  I'm  sure  they  were  given  the  wonderful  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  is  promised  to  those  who  are  baptized  worth- 
ily and  have  hands  laid  upon  them  by  one  who  has  the  authority 
to  officiate  in  the  name  of  Jesus ;  and  so  were  our  parents  before  us, 
when  we  accepted  the  gospel  in  our  lives.  It  is  the  one  thing  that  will 
continue  to  make  us  happy  just  as  long  as  we  live  it.  We  must  not 
deceive  ourselves  by  feeling  that  when  we  went  down  into  the  waters 
of  baptism  we  finished  the  work.  This  is  a  mistaken  notion.  We  have 
just  begun  our.  work  of  observing  every  principle  of  the  gosepl  as 
taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  and,  as  stated  in  the  beginning  of  my 
remarks,  we  shall  earn  salvation  just  as  quickly  as  we  obtain  a  know- 
ledge of  the  principles  of  the  gospel  and  live  them.  If  we  would  obtain 
temporal  salvation,  we  must  live  the  temporal  laws  of  the  gospel  of 
our  Redeemer.  I  exhort  you,  my  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  as  well  as 
myself,  to  strive  more  diligently  from  now  on  to  live  up  to  the 
teachings  of  our  leaders,  and  I  hope  every  one  of  us  will  return  to 
our  homes  from  this  conference  with  a  determination  in  our  hearts 
to  be  loyal  to  one  another,  be  loyal  to  our  brethren  and  sisters  who 
preside  over  .us,  and  the  holy  Priesthood  of  God,  thus  honoring  our 
Father  in  heaven.  We  shall  find  great  joy  and  satisfaction  in  so  doing. 
There  is  no  other  name  under  heaven  whereby  we  can  be  saved,  except 
the  name  of  our  Reedeemer,  and  there  is  no  other  plan  under  heaven 
whereby  we  can  obtain  satisfaction  in  this  life  except  the  plan  laid  down 
in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

We  are  indeed  highly  favored  of  the  Lord  to  be  happy  partakers 
of  this  glorious  gospel  of  our  Redeemer.  To  a  certain  extent  it  is  with 
this  as  with  all  other  blessings  of  life,  we  do  not  appreciate  them  fully 
only  by  comparison,  or  when  separated  from  them.  In  order  to  appre- 
ciate the  beauties  of  the  gospel  which  we  are  partakers  of,  it  is 
necessary  for  us  to  go  into  the  world  and  see  what  error  and  what 
folly  is  being  taught  under  the  name  of  religion.  I  am  indeed  grate- 
ful that  my  parents  had  the  courage  to  come  out  of  the  world  and 
accept  of  that  which  the  world  speaks  of  contemptuously  as  "Mor- 
monism."  I  am  indeed  grateful  that  they  had  the  courage  to  do  this, 
for  had  I  been  raised  in  the  world,  it  is  possible  that  I  would 
not  have  manifest  the  courage  which  my  good  parents  did.  Therefore 
I  praise  the  Lord  for  my  parents,  and  for  his  blessings  toward  me, 
for  he  has  made  it  known  to  me  that  the  gospel,  which  my  parents 
embraced  and  which  I  now  enjoy,  is  the  true  gospel  of  our  Redeemer 
and  that  it  has  in  it  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  every 
one  who  will  believe  it  and  obey  its  principles. 

Surely  any  unbiased  person  who  would  read  carefully  the  history 
of  our  Church  must  recognize  in  its  progress  some  super-human 
power;  just  last  week  I  had  the  privilege  of  visiting  the  deserted  city 
of  Nauvoo  in  company  with  President  Winslow  F.  Smith,  of  the 
Northern  States  mission.  This  was  one  of  the  most  flourishing  of  cities, 


178 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  in  all  likelihood  would  have  become  the  capital  of  Illinois.  When 
the  Saints  were  driven  out  it  had  a  population  of  25,500  people,  while 
Springfield,  111.,  at  that  time,  had  but  six  or  seven  thousand,  and 
Chicago  had  but  12,500  people ;  after  our  people  were  driven  away, 
others  acquired  this  city  and  the  farms  surrounding  it  for  a  mere  song ; 
yet,  with  only  mortal  vision  and  wisdom,  they  failed  utterly,  and  today 
Nauvoo  is  the  most  deserted  village  I  have  ever  visited,  while  our 
Saints,  driven  through  the  trackless  desert,  wended  their  way  to  the 
Rocky  Mountains,  and  here,  in  the  midst  of  great  hardship,  established 
a  great  commonwealth.  This  notwithstanding  we  have  submitted  to  a 
terrible  "tax,"  as  the  world  calls  it,  that  of  tithing,  or  a  ten  per  cent 
of  our  incomes ;  and  further,  notwithstanding  we  have  paid  the  same 
taxation  as  all  other  people,  federal,  state,  county  and  city,  and  have 
met  all  donations  required  of  us  liberally ;  and  further,  notwithstanding 
our  people  have  sustained  their  sons  and  daughters  and  husbands 
in  the  mission  fields  for  at  least  a  period  of  two  years  during  the 
productive  period  of  their  lives.  Notwithstanding  these  many  handi- 
caps, from  a  worldly  standpoint  we  were  recently  accused  on  the 
streets  of  Rochester,  N.  Y.,  by  a  very  eminent  divine,  of  being  the 
richest  people  in  the  world,  and,  if  to  be  rich  is  a  crime,  I  fear  we  are 
guilty.  Statistics  show  that  a  larger  percentage  of  our  people  own  their 
homes  than  any  other  people  in  the  world,  and  that,  as  a  community, 
we  are  richer  than  any  other  community  of  like  number,  I  say  surely 
in  the  face  of  these  apparent  disadvantages  the  unbiased  man  must 
recognize  some  divine  help  in  ou-  behalf. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  knowledge 
of  the  gospel  which  God  has  given  me,  and  I  earnestly  desire  to 
encourage  you,  my  brethren  and  sister.?-,  to  live  more  closely  to  the 
Lord,  for  we  are  passing  through  perilous  times,  and  it  behooves  us  to 
stand  in  holy  places,  manifesting  the  fruits  of  the  gospel  of  our 
Redeemer  in  our  everyday  lives.  One  of  the  most  desirous  fruits 
of  the  gospel  is  that  of  love  for  one  another.  I  want  to  urge  upon  you 
to  manifest  this  beautiful  quality  more  freely  in  your  lives  toward  one 
another.  It  will  make  you  happier,  and  I  am  sure  it  wdl  make  greater 
your  admiration  and  love  for  our  kindred,  and  for  our  brethren  and 
sisters,  friends,  and  neighbors.  Do  not  wait  until  they  are  dead  to  place 
bouquets  upon  their  caskets,  let  us  now  put  our  arms  about  our  parents, 
and  brothers  and  sisters,  and  tell  them  that  we  love  them,  thus  ra- 
diating sunshine  wherever  we  go,  showing  practical  results  from 
the  gospel  which  we  have  accepted.  Life  is  a  wonderful  gift,  and  it 
is  ours  to  live  every  day,  and  great  possibilities  lie  before  us,  notwith- 
standing we  have  adversities. 

In  conlusion  I  will  quote  the  last  verse  of  one  of  our  Sunday 
school  hymns,  I  think  we  can  apply  to  our  lives,  and  it  is  appropriate  for 
our  consideration  during  these  perilous  times: 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS  179 

"You  can  live  a  happy  life, 

In  this  world  of  toil  and  strife, 

If  there's  sunshine  in  your  heart; 

And  your  soul  will  glow  with  love, 

From  the  perfect  light  above, 

If  there's  sunshine  in  your  heart  today." 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHAS.  A.  CALLIS 

{President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission) 

It  is  my  humble  prayer  that  I  may  be  guided  in  my  remarks  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  under  which  Spirit  my  brethren  have  spoken  to 
you — by  which  Spirit  I  testify  unto  you  that  they  have  declared  unto 
you  the  word  of  the  Lord.  The  Lord  be  praised  for  this  glorious 
conference  that  is  now  drawing  to  a  close,  and  we  praise  and  thank 
him  for  the  presence  of  the  First  Presidency  and  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  who  have  spoken  unto  Israel  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
which  is  able  to  make  us  wise  unto  salvation.  These  leaders  have 
spoken  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  by  that  power  their  words 
have  been  carried  to  our  hearts. 

We  are  a  blessed  people.  Out  of  the  world,  out  from  the  midst 
of  the  fog  of  superstition,  error  and  unbelief,  God  has  called  us.  But 
what  for?  To  idle  away  our  time?  No ;  for  a  special  work  he  has  called 
us.  We  are  a  peculiar  people  and,  as  the  brethren  have  said,  a  people 
who  are  doing  good  works  among  the  children  of  men.  I  believe  and 
testify  that  the  sacrifice  of  the  Saints  of  God  in  living  their  religion, 
paying  their  tithing  and  sending  their  sons  and  daughters  into  the 
world  to  proclaim  the  fulness  of  the  gospel,  is  sacred  in  the  sight  of 
God.  And  let  us  not  deceive  ourselves;  if  this  w°rk  could  be  accom- 
plished without  sacrifice,  it  would  cease  to  be  a  work  of  blessing;  for 
"sacrifice  brings  forth  the  blessings  of  heaven."  The  light  we  are 
upholding  before  the  world  is  Jesus  Christ,  our  Savior,  our  Redeemer ; 
and  with  his  doctrines  we  are  salting  the  earth,  and  it  shall  yet  be 
said  by  those  who  now  oppose  us  that  the  faith  of  the  Church  has  done 
more  than  any  other  religious  belief  in  preserving  and  keeping  alive 
in  the  hearts  of  men  the  knowledge  of  the  true  and  living  God. 

"We  believe  that  a  man  must  be  called  of  God  by  prophecy, 
and  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  of  those  who  are  in  authority,  to 
preach  the  gospel  and  administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof."  By  that 
authority  your  sons  and  your  daughters  go  into-  the  world  to  preach  the 
everlasting  gospel,  to  deliver  a  message  that  is  vital  to  the  eternal 
salvation  of  the  children  of  men.  We  are  met  frequently  by  men  who 
declare  they  get  their  authority  from  the  Bible.  This  is  incorrect. 
Before  we  had  the  Bible,  in  its  present  form,  there  was  authority,  and 
there  was  also  religion.  Religion  does  not  come  out  of  the  Bible; 


180 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


neither  does  authority.  Both  existed  before  there  was  any  Bible.. 
And,  in  this  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  by  John  the  Baptist, 
and  by  Peter,  James  and  John,  the  Father  restored  to  the  earth 
this  power,  this  authority,  this  holy  Priesthood,  which  is  exercised 
in  the  spirit  of  love  and  meekness  and  persuasion  for  the  eternal 
benefit  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God.  This  is  the  authority  which 
exists  in  this  Church. 

The  judgments  of  God  are  in  the  earth,  and  so  are  his  blessings. 
The  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  may  be  proved  and 
established  beyond  successful  contradiction  by  the  presence  of  judg- 
ments, pestilence,  and  famine  in  the  earth,  and  by  the  presence  of 
war — all  of  which  were  foretold  by  this  choice  seer  and  prophet, 
Joseph  Smith  ;  but  the  divine  mission  of  Joseph  Smith  may  also  be 
proved  by  the  blessings  of  God  that  are  in  the  earth.  We  are  told 
that  one  of  the  signs  that  was  to1  precede  the  second  coming  of  the  Son 
of  God  was  the  inauguration  of  a  glorious  work  for  the  salvation  of 
the  dead.  In  Malachi  we  read, 

Rehold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord: 

And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  heart 
of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I  come  and  smite  the  earth  with  a  curse. 

We  Latter-day  Saints  are  living  and  working  in  the  realization  of 
this  splendid  promise  of  unselfish  and  magnificent  work  for  the  sal- 
vation of  the  dead ;  and  it  is  one  of  the  proofs  which  establishes 
beyond  a  doubt  that  Heber  J.  Grant  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God. 
The  prophet  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  is  given  the  keys 
of  that  kingdom,  which  holds  the  power  to  permit  work  to  be  done 
by  the  living  for  the  dead.  In  the  Southern  States  mission — in  every 
mission — on  the  isles  of  the  sea,  the  hearts  of  the  people  are  turning 
to  their  loved  ones  that  have  gone  beyond  the  Veil,  and  the  activity  in 
this  temple — which  is  a  sermon  in  stone  of  the  faithfulness  tend 
unselfish  devotion  of  God's  people — this  spiritual  activity,  the  work 
for  the  dead,  is  increasing  by  leaps  and  bounds,  and  the  hearts  of  the 
people  in  the  distant  missions  and  in  the  islands  of  the  sea  are  being 
turned  to  their  dead;  and,  inspired  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  they  have 
this  work  done  for  their  dead  kindred.  If  the  president  of  this  Church- 
did  not  possess  the  authority  to  have  this  work  done,  do  you  think  that 
the  Holy  Ghost,  which  guides  unto  all  truth,  would  move  the  people 
on  the  isles  of  the  sea  and  the  missions  outside  of  Zion  to  have  their 
work  done  for  the  dead  under  the  authority  of  President  Heber  J. 
Grant?  No,  it  is  because  they  know  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  testimony  of 
Jesus  Christ,  that  there  is  the  power  and  the  authority  of  the  holy 
Priesthood  in  this  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  Lord  said  to  one  of  his  Nephite  prophets : 

For  my  work  is  not  yet  finished;  neither  shall  it  be,  until  the  end 
of  man;  neither  from  that  time  henceforth  and  forever.  (II  Nephi  29:9.) 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


181 


And  unto  Moses,  God  declared : 

For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life  of  man. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  the  people  of  God,  whom  he  is 
using  to  perform  this  great  and  glorious  work;  and  whether  in  life 
or  death,  as  the  work  of  the  Lord  never  ends,  your  work  and  my  work 
shall  never  end;  but  so  long  as  we  continue  faithful  in  this  and  in 
the  world  to  come,  we  will  be  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
working  for  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
God.  Is  not  this  a  glorious  work— more  than  world-wide  ?  It  is  eternity- 
wide,  never-ending;  and  in  this  work  we  will  find  the  joy,  the  peace, 
and  the  reward  that  passeth  all  understanding. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God, 
the  Redeemer  and  the  Savior  of  the  world,  the  Being  who  saved  us  by 
his  precious  blood,  the  Being  who  is  leading  this  people  today  as  surely 
as  he  led  ancient  Israel.  I  also  bear  you  my  testimony  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  prophet,  seer  and  a  revelator,  a  man  raised  up  of  God 
to  do  a  mighty  work.  He  came  into  the  world  with  God's  message 
in  his  heart,  and  in  courage  and  faith,  he  proclaimed  that  message 
until  his  glorious  life  ended  in  martyrdom.  By  the  same  spirit  in  which 
I  bear  this  testimony,  I  testify  that  Heber  J.  Grant  is  the  leader  of  this 
people,  chosen  of  God,  a  man  who!  holds  the  power,  the  authority  of 
presidency,  the  prophet,  seer,  and  revlator — a  blessing,  a  leader, 
a  teacher,  a  counselor,  a  friend  unto  this  people;  and  I  bear  this  testi- 
mony in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  general  authorities  of  the  Church  were  presented,  as  in 
the  Tabernacle,  and  unanimously  sustained. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right,"  and  one  verse  of, 
"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Alvin  T.  Thorup, 
of  the  Liberty  stake. 


CLOSING  SESSION 

Conference  was  continued  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Sunday  after- 
noon, October  9,  at  2  o'clock.  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 
Overflow  meetings  were  announced  at  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  at 
the  Bureau  of  Information. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  say,  what  is  truth," 
announced  by  President  Grant  as  the  favorite  hymn  of  the  late 
President  Anthon  H.  Lund. 


182 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Elder  Moroni  Lazenby,  President  of  the  North  Sevier  stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang,  "Sweet  is  thy  work  my  God  and 
King." 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

My  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude  on  this  occasion,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  the  blessings  of  our  heavenly  Father  which  I  enjoy  in 
common  with  you.  I  feel  greatly  honored  in  being  permitted  to  sit 
beside  the  members  of  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  and  mem- 
bers of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  in  the  midst  of  these  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  to  have  their  fellowship  and  esteem, 
T  would  have  been  pleased  to  have  enjoyed  this  seat  that  I  have  been 
occupying,  all  through  the  conference,  if  it  had  pleased  the  Lord  and 
the  brethren  that  I  should  have  done  so ;  but  inasmuch  as  I  have 
been  asked  to  make  a  few  remarks,  I  sincerely  hope  that  I  may  be 
inspired  of  the  Lord  to  say  the  things  which  he  would  have  me  to  say. 
I  realize  that  there  is  a  greater  responsibility  resting  upon  me  than 
upon  some  of  the  lay  members  of  the  Church,  because  of  the  position 
to  which  I  have  been  called,  and  the  authority  which  has  (been  placed 
upon  me  to  be  a  special  witness  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  all  the 
world,  whither  my  lot  shall  be  cast.  I  feel  very  happy  in,  and  thankful 
for,  the  testimony  which  our  heavenly  Father  has  given  me  of  the 
truth  of  this  great  latter-day  work  which  came  forth  through  the 
instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  know  that  it  is  true, 
that  th.pr»  is  in  it  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  both  in  this  life 
and  in  the  life  to  come. 

THE  NOBIILITY  OF  OUR  ANCESTRY  AND  BIRTH. 

I  know  that  God  lives,  that  he,  through  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  is 
the  Creator  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  the  seas  and  fountains  of 
waters.  I  know  that  he  is  our  very  eternal  Father,  the  Father  of  our 
spirits,  and  I  rejoice  in  the  nobility  of  our  ancestry,  and  birth.  Breth- 
ren and  sisters,  and  friends,  when  we  think  of  the  block  from  which ' 
we  have  been  hewed,  I  am  led  to  remark:  "What  manner  of  men  and 
women  ought  we  not  to  be,  we  who  have  inherited,  through  our 
spiritual  birth,  the  very  attributes  of  Deity  which  in  their  perfected 
state  and  condition  make  our  eternal  Father  what  he  is?"  We  are 
required  to  develop  these  attributes. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  OUR  BEING. 

1 

We  are  placed  here  upon  the  earth  that  we  may  be  tried  and 
proved  to  see  whether  we  will  serve  God  at  all  hazards,  and  keep  his 
commandments,  and  endure  the  tests  which  shall  be  made 
of    our    faith    and    our    integrity.     The    scriptures    say:  "Let 


•t.'k 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


183 


this  mind  be  in  you,  which  was  also  in  Christ  Jesus,  who  being  in  the 
form  of  God  thought  it  not  robbery  to  be  equal  with  God."  As  Christ 
felt,  so  we  are  admonished  that  we  should  feel,  just  as  good  children 
here  on  earth  should  try  to  emulate  all  that  is  good  and  noble  and 
great  in  their  earthly  parents.  When  there  was  a  great  controversy 
in  heaven  it  was  upon  this  point,  as  I  understand,  that  of  being  obe- 
dient or  of  being  disobedient.  In  other  words,  there  was  one  great  one 
who  came  forth  and  wanted  the  Father  to  make  him  his  son  and  give 
him  the  privilege  of  saving  mankind,  but  in  doing  so  he  would  take 
away  the  agency  of  man  and  the  honor  and  glory  of  God.  There  was' 
another,  who  was  our  Father's  firstborn.  The  platform  of  principles 
upon  which  he  stood  was :  "Father,  thy  will  be  done,  and  the  glory  be 
thine  forever."  That  took  with  the  Lord  and  with  the  hosts.  We  who 
are  privileged  to  enjoy  the  blessings  that  we  enjoy  here  in  this  life 
stood  with  Christ  our  Savior  upon  that  platform.  It  pertained  not  only 
to  the  former  existence,  but  to  the  existence  of  man  in  mortality 
and  beyond  the  grave. 


Christ,  our  Lord,  was  true  to  the  trusts  reposed  in  him-.  He  was 
our  great  captain  there  and  has  been  our  great  captain  here.  He  has 
marked  the  way,  and  every  path  defined.  When  he  came  here  he  said 
that  he  came  not  to  do  his  own  will,  but  the  will  of  him,  who  sent  him — 
the  Father,  and  he  has  stated  that  if  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine  whether  it  is  of  God  or  of  man,  whether  he 
spoke  of  himself  or  of  him  who  sent  him.  I  thank  the  Lord  that  we 
have  so  far  advanced  in  doing  the  will  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  in 
yielding  obedience  unto  the  laws,  ordinances  and  commandments  of  the 
Lord,  that  we  have  received  this  witness  unto  ourselves,  as  many  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  honest  men  and  women  in  the  Church  can  testify 
today.  I  rejoice  not  only  in  the  testimony  our  Father  has  given  to  me, 
but  in  the  testimony  he  has  given  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters  of 
the  Church. 


While  there  are  some  who  have  been  wayward  and  indifferent, 
who  seem  to  have  forgotten  the  covenant  which  they  made  before  they 
came  here,  to  do  the  will  of  our  Father — and  we  are  constantly  laboring 
with  such — the  great  mass  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  firmly  believe, 
are  trying  their  utmost  to  do  the  will  of  our  Father  as  pertains  to  them 
in.  this  life,  and  they  have  the  testimony  of  the  truth  and  manifest 
it  in  their  works  in  the  Church,  answering  every  call  that  comes  to 
them,  recognizing  the  authority  which  the  Lord  has  placed  in  the 
Church,  whether  it  be  to  go  abroad  into  other  lands  among  strangers, 
leaving  loved  ones,  leaving  professions,  business  interests,  all  that  they 


JESUS'  CHRIST  OUR  GREAT  CAPTAIN. 


WILLINGNESS  OF  THE  SAINTS  TO  WORK. 


184 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have,  to  preach  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  as  a  warning  unto  the 
world,  or  whether  it  be  to  labor  at  home  in  the  stakes  in  the  wards,  in 
the  quorums,  in  the  auxiliary  associations,  or  in  the  temple  of  the 
Lord,  or  wherever  they  are  wanted  to  go.  Whatever  they  are  galled 
upon  to  do  we  find  that  willingness  of  spirit  to  answer  the  call  of 
authority,  take  up  the  responsibility,  make  sacrifice,  and  work  to  help 
the  carrying  on  of  this  great  latter-day  work,  our  Father's  work, 
unselfish  service  to  our  fellowmen,  whether  they  be  in  the  Church  or 
not,  whether  we  have  known  them  or  not,  whether  they 
be  dead  or  alive,  this  unselfishness  is  in  the  hearts  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  a  desire  to  help  the  Father  to  carry  on  his  work 
of  salvation. 

THE  WONDERFUL  ACHIEVEMENTS  MADE. 

) 

A  wonderful  work  is  being  accomplished  in  the  midst  of  the  people, 
and  we  have  the  evidence  in  the  organization  of  the  Church,  in  the 
perfected  state  it  is  in  at  the  present  time,  in  the  organization  of  the 
Sunday  schools,  the  auxiliary  associations,  the  quorums  of  the  Priest- 
hood, and  in  onr  temples.  In  all  this  work  we  have  the  evidence  that 
God  has  not  forsaken  his  people  since  the  death  of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith.  Those  who  have  come  after,  who  have  succeeded  him  to 
the  presidency,  have  received  the  mantle  of  the  Prophet,  each  in  suc- 
cession, and  his  administration  has  been  attended  with  the  power  of 
God  for  the  growth  and  the  development  and  onward  progress  of  his 
work  in  the  earth.  As  we  see  the  work  today,  we  have  a  living  evidence 
of  God's  power  that  is  in  this  work,  and  with  his  people.  We  do 
know  that  the  truth  will  ultimately  triumph,  that  this  Church  and 
kingdom  is  established  never  to  be  thrown  down  or  to  be  given  to 
another  people.  Zion's  young  people  are  as  faithful  today  as  they  ever 
have  been,  and  are  willing  to  carry  on  the  work  and  bear  the  responsi- 
bility as  it  comes  to  them,  and  they  are  being  better  prepared,  than 
were  the  former  generations  in  this  Church,  to  take  this  responsibility, 
and  do  effective  work.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  efficiency  of  his  min- 
istry at  home  and  abroad,  for  faithful  men  and  women  who  are  willing 
to  sacrifice  and  to  give  and  to-  do  for  the  accomplishment  of  the  Lord's 
purposes.  I  trust  that  I  am  not  jealous  or  envious  of  any  living  man. 
I  do  hope  that  I  do  so  love  the  Lord,  our  God,  and  love  his  work,  and 
love  the  brethren,  that  I  desire  to  see  the  work  succeed,  and  to  see 
my  brethren  honored  and  successful  in  this  work.  I  have  no  need 
to  covet  what  any  other  person  enjoys  in  the  way  of  ability  or  power  for 
good.  The  Lord  has  blessed  me  even  more  than  I  could  deserve, 
and  now  I  pray  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  do  the  will  of  the  Lord, 
follow  the  direction  of  him  who  stands  at  the  head  and  be  on  safe 
ground,  sure  of  salvation,  and  I  promise  you  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
you  shall  obtain  it.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


185 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Read  the  following  cablegram  from  Calcutta,  India : 

"President  Heber  J.  Grant. 

"Salt  Lake  City, 

"Greetings,  God  bless  everybody. 

"David  O.  McKay, 
"Hugh  J.  Cannon." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

ELIMINATION  OF  GOD  FROM  EDUCATION. 

For  I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the 
latter  day  upon  the  earth: 

And  though  after  my  skin  worms  destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh 
shall  I  see  God: 

Whom  I  shall  see  for  myself,  and  mine  eyes  shall  behold,  and  not  an- 
other; though  my  reins  be  consumed  within  me. 

These  are  the  words  of  an  ancient  prophet.  I  believe  them  most 
sincerely.  My  reason  for  quoting  them  is  due  to  the  fact  that  at  a 
meeting,  this  morning,  the  statement  was  made,  in  remarks  by  one  of 
our  educators,  that  the  Lord  has  been  eliminated  from  our  education 
and  that  he  is  being  eliminated  from  the  doctrines  of  some  of  the 
so  called  Christian  churches,  for  they  are  attempting  to  harmonize 
their  teachings  with  certain  ideas  that  prevail  in  the  world  which  are  in 
conflict  with  the  truth.  This  same  brother  made  a  statement  to  the 
effect  that  a  student,  seeking  advice  regarding  a  certain  course  in- 
cluding certain  subjects  in  science,  was  informed  by  his  teacher  that 
he  would  have  to  choose  between  his  faith  and  the  course  of  study 
that  would  be  given  in  the  school,  for  they  could  not  be  harmonized. 

COURSES  OF  STUDY  IN  CONFLICT  WITH  FUNDAMENTAL  TRUTHS. 

I  regret  exceedingly  that  courses  in  study  in  the  public  schools, 
in  the  college's  and  places  of  learning  throughout  the  land,  are  in 
conflict  with  fundamental  truths  of  the  Christian  faith  ;  and,  for  one, 
I  desire  to  express  my  feelings,  and  to  declare  that  I  consider 
it  an  outrage  against  the  liberties  of  the  people,  when  we  are  denied 
the  privilege  of  teaching  principles  of  eternal  tr.uth,  in  the  realm  of 
religion;  when  we  are  denied  the  privilge)  of 'praying  to  our  heavenly 
Father  in  the  schools,  or  referring  to  the  Supreme  Being,  for  fear 
that  we  will  offend  someone ;  and  at  the  same  time  instructors  are  per- 
mitted to  advocate  that  in  the  school  which  the  teacheis  themselves 
profess  and  declare  to  be  in  conflict  with  the  fundamentals  of  the  faith 
which  I  believe,  and  which  thousands  of  others  accept  throughout  this, 
nation  and  other  nations  of  the  world  as  divine  truth. 


186 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


JESUS  CHRIST  THE  SON  OF  THE  LIVING  GOD  A  FUNDAMENTAL  TRUTH. 

< 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  assembled  here  from  all  the 
stakes  of  Zion;  we  came  with  one  thought  in  mind,  and  that  was  to 
receive  light  and  truth,  to  receive  encouragement,  guidance,  and 
instruction,  that  we  might  again  return  to  our  homes  rejoicing  in  the 
testimony  of  the  knowledege  of  this  gospel,  renewed  in  our  faith, 
invigorated,  built  up  and  strengthened.  I  pray  you  that  when  you 
return,  you  remember  the  things  that  you  have  heard ;  if  not  the  words, 
at  least  that  you  will  absorb  that  which  ihas  been  said,  that  it  may  be- 
come a  part  and  parcel  of  your  being,  that  you  will  go  away  rejoicing 
and  feeling  that  you  have  been  fed  the  words  of  eternal  life,  and 
above  all  else  I  say  this  to  you :  Let  it  be  uppermost  in  your  minds,  now 
and  at  all  times,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God  who 
came  into  the  world  to  lay  down  his  life  that  we  might  live.  That  is  the 
truth,  and  is  fundamental.  Upon  that  our  faith  is  built.  It  can  not  be 
destroyed.  We  must  adhere  to  this  teaching  in  spite  of  the  teachings  of 
the  world,  and  the  notions  of  men ;  for  this  is  paramount,  this  is 
essential  to  our  salvation.  The  Lord  redeemed  us  with  his  blood,  he 
gave  us  salvation,  provided — and  there  is  this  condition  which  we 
must  not  forget — that  we  will  keep  his  commandments,  and  always 
remember  him.  If  we  will  do  that  then  we  shall  be  saved,  while  the 
ideas  and  the  foolishness  of  men,  shall  perish  from  the  earth. 

! 

CRITICISM  FROM  A  GREAT  CITIZEN. 

v 

I  want  to  read  to  you,  and  I  will  do  it  in  conclusion,  the  words 
of  one  of  our  great  citizens,  a  man  that  I  honor  and  respect  because 
of  his  integrity,  because  he  is  honest,  because  he  is  courageous,  because 
he  stands,  for  the  truth,  as  he  understands  it.  These  words  were 
uttered  some  time  ago  by  Honorable  William  Jennings  Bryan,  in  the 
city  of  New  York,  before  the  Brooklyn  Academy  of  Music : 

The  Nebraskan  exhorted  his  hearers  to  dismiss  the  Darwinian  theory  as 
false  to  Christianity,  and  criticized  the  colleges  and  schools  for  failing  to 
teach  students  Bible  truths,  declaring  that  today's  crying  need  is  "to  love 
the  Lord  thy  God  with  thy  whole  heart,  and  thy  whole  mind,  and  thy  whole 
soul."    He  said  in  part: 

"I  am  impressed  by  the  lack  of  earnestness  of  those  who  teach  religion. 
Our  young  people  in  the  schools  and  colleges  often  go  out  to  battle  with 
life  without  the  benefit  of  religious  teaching.  Neutrality  in  religion  is 
taught  in  our  universities.  We  have  been  too  lenient  to  those  opposed  to 
teaching  religion  in  the  schools.  We  have  allowed  them  to  taKe  God  out  of 
education. 

"One  thing  I  observe  is  that  mystery  in  the  dining  room  bothers  us  not 
— it's  only  in  the  church.  In  the  former  we  eat  and  are  not  harmed.  But 
in  the  latter  we  want  to  'understand'  everything.  And  yet  in  the  dining  room 
there  are  many  mysteries." 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  T ALU  AGE  187 

i 
i 

THE  CHRISTIAN  FAITH  CANNOT  BE  HARMONIZED  WITH  THE  FOOLISHNESS 

OF  MEN.  > 

With  that  I  fully  agree.  The  reason  that  there  is  a  lack  of  spirit 
and  force  in  the  religious  teaching  of  the  world  is  in  part  because 
they  have  tried  to  harmonize  the  Christian  faith  with  the  foolishness 
of  men ;  and,  of  course,  it  will  not  harmonize  with  falsehood  and  with 
the  doctrines  of  men.  But  wc  have  received  the  light  of  the  everlasting 
gospel.  It  is  our  salvation.  Let  us  adhere  to  it,  and  worship  the  Lord 
and  keep  his  commandments,  as  we  have  been  instructed  to  do,  in  the 
name  of  his  Son.  This  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Never,  I  believe,  have  I  experienced  more  inspiring  npwellings  of 
thanksgiving  and  praise  in  my  heart  respecting  the  Latter-day  Saints 
in  general,  than  I  have  during  this  conference.  Looking  from  my  posi- 
tion upon  the  stand  upon  this  vast  body,  and  realizing  that  this 
multitude  represents  comparatively  but  a  small  part  of  the  membership 
of  the  Church,  so  assembled  in  an  official  capacity,  1  am  impressed  by 
the  sense  of  solidarity  and  greatness  of  the  Church.  I  have  been  struck 
by  the  uniform  attentiveness.  I  have  seen  no  evidence  of  frivolity,  of 
giving  way  to  the  consideration  of  matters  other  than  those  of  the  hour 
and  minute.  I  have  watched  carefully ;  and  I  have  failed  to  see  neighbors 
talking  together.  The  people  present  have  been  following  the  remarks 
of  the  speakers;  they  have  been  attentive  to  what  has  been  said. 

IN  HARMONY  WITH  THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM  AND  WISE  COUNSEL. 

I  agree  most  heartily  with  every  word  uttered  in  praise  and  encour- 
agement of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  who  are  verily  the  people  of  God, 
chosen  by  him  and  unto  whom  is  committed  this  gospel  with  all  its 
powers  and  privileges,  including  the  authority  of  the  holy  priesthood. 
While  equally  optimistic  with  those  of  my  brethren  who  have  pictured 
brightly  the  assured  future  of  the  people  of  God,  I  am  also  in  harmony 
with  the  words  of  warning  and  wise  counsel,  that  have  been  given,  not 
in  pessimistic  spirit,  but  in  wisdom;;  and  I  say  unto  you,  let  us  heed 
them. 

COUNSEL  IS  BINDING  UPON  THE  SAINTS. 

Do  you  ever  think  of  the  inconsistency  of  raising  you  right  hand 
in  solemn  witness  before  God  that  you  will  sustain  certain  men  who 
have  been  called  and  ordained,  in  the  manner  appointed  of  God,  as 
your  leaders,  as  prophets  unto  the  people,  verily  as  revelators,  and 
then,  though  perchance  you  come  together  and  hear  their  words,  going 
away  and  pay  no  attention  to  them  ?  When  one  speaks  with  the  power 


188 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  his  Priesthood,  and  in  the  authority  of  his  office,  then  what  he  speaks 
is  binding  upon  himself  and  all  who  hear.  Oftimes  I  tremble,  literally, 
as  I  consider  what  I  am  doing  when  addressing  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
for  I  know  that  what  I  say  unto  them  is  binding  upon  me,  and  that  I 
shall  be  judged  by  the  precepts  that  I  impress  upon  them;  and  what  I 
say  under  such  conditions  is  likewise  binding  upon  those  who  hear. 

You  cannot,  we  cannot,  pass  by  lightly  the  words  that  come  by  way 
of  counsel  and  instruction  from  the  ordained  servants  of  God,  and 
escape  the  inevitable  penalty  of  that  neglect.  Nevertheless,  we  have 
our  agency;  we  may  choose  to  disobey,  but  we  must  take  the  conse- 
quences of  that  choice. 

f 

LET  US  BE  GENUINE  AND  LIVE,  UP  TO  OUR  PROFESSIONS. 

Latter-day  Saints,  let  us  be  what  we  profess  to  be;  let  us  be 
genuine ;  let  us  live  up  to  the  religion  and  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  that  we  proclaim.  We  profess  to  be  a  prayerful  people. 
Do  we  pray?  Are  our  homes  kept  pure  by  prayer?  Prayer  is  the  Lord's 
great  sterilizer  against  the  germs  of  spiritual  disease  that  make  their 
way  into  our  homes,  contaminating  the  atmosphere,  poisoning  the  food 
we  eat.  I  don't  mean  your  family  prayers  only ;  but  do  we  individually 
pray?  It  is  possibly  that  a  mass  or  collective  condition  may  exist  which 
is  very  different  from  the  individual  condition.  There  may  be  a 
home  in  which  prayers  are  said,  but  yet  perhaps  no  member  of  that 
household  is  really  prayerful.  Do  you  feel  urged  at  times  to  seek  a  place 
where  you  can  be  alone  with  God,  where  you  can  pray,  pray  unto 
him,  not  for  others  to  hear,  not  to  conform  with  some  regulation  or 
custom,  or  even  because  of  counsel  or  advice,  but  because  you  feel  the 
need  of  communication  with  God?  Have  you  not  read  of  the  Christ, 
who,  after  a  period  of  strenuous  ministry,  went  to  seek  rest ;  and  do  we 
not  read  that  he  arose  next  morning  before  it  was  day  and  went  out 
where  he  could  pray?  He  needed  that  help  that  prayer  alone  could 
bring. 

Great  and  grand  as  is  this  people,  mighty  as  are  the  works  that 
have  been  accomplished  through  the  blessings  of  God  through  his  ser- 
vants in  these  days,  there  is  too  little  real  prayer  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  too  many  prayerless  homes,  and  hence  the  spread  of  spiritual 
contagion  among  some  of  us.  Thank  the  Lord  not  among  many, 
relatively  speaking.  I  have  faith  in  my  people,  for  I  know  that  they  are 
the  Lord's  people,  and  I  am  proud  to  be  one  of  them ;  but  when  the 
cry  shall  come,  as  come  it  shall :  "To  your  tents,  O  Israel,"  for  there 
are  struggles  ahead,  the  Lord  knows  where  to  find  those  who  have  been 
faithful.  They  are  in  the  valleys  of  these  mountains,  by  the  thousands 
and  tens  of  thousands.  Young,men,  young  women,  men  and  women 
of  mature  years,  who  have  never  contaminated  themselves,  who  are 
acceptable  unto  the  Lord,  who  have  never  bowed  the  knee  to  Baal, 
who  are  the  Lord's  own.  They  are  here,  and  though  there  be  a  few 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


139 


who  go  astray,  yet  the  Lord  will  bring  them  back  if  they  will  but  repent, 
and  make  it  possible  for  him  to  bring  them  back. 

BLESSINGS   COME   THROUGH    COMPLIANCE   WITH  LAW. 

Do  you  know  that  we  tie  the  Lord's  hands,  figuratively  speaking, 
again  and  again,  so  that  he  can't  do  what  he  wishes  to  though  we 
say  he  is  omnipotent.  He  can't  pour  out  blessings  when  we  have  not 
complied  with  the  law  upon  which  those  blessings  are  predicated. 
He  can't  do  it,  or  he  would  be  unjust.  He  can't  do  it,  or  he  would 
be  untruthful ;  and  were  he  untruthful,  were  he  unjust,  he  would  cease 
to  be  God. 

I  am  glad  that  we  praise  and  worship  the  living  God,  and  that  we 
know  of  him ;  and  I  feel  that  we  are  living  in  the  day  of  the 
realization  of  his  mightly  promises  to  Israel  of  old,  addressed  directly 
to  Israel,  when  Israel  as  a  kingdom  had  arrayed  itself  against  Judah 
as  a  kingdom,  and  when  Israel,  or  the  kingdom  of  Israel,  had  gone 
off  and  left  the  choice  and  chosen  land  given  unto  them-.  Oh,  how  the 
Lord  pleaded  with  them.  He  said  unto  them  that  if  they  would  come 
back  and  would  obey  him  and  keep  his  commandments,  he  would 
shower  blessings  upon  them.  Among  other  things  he  promised  this:  I 
will  give  you  pastors  according  to  mine  heart,  which  shall  feed  you 
with  knowledge  and  understanding.  Do  we  not  live  in  that  day,  the  day 
of  the  realization  of  that  promise? 

"How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord, 
Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excellent  word! 
What  more  can  he  say  than  to  you  he1  hath  said, 
You  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have  fled?" 

WHY  AFFLICTIONS  COME. 

( 

Has  he  not  given  us  prophets  and  apostles  to  teach,  patriarchs  and 
high  priests,  elders  and  seventies,  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  and  provisions 
in  the  auxiliaries,  for  the  instruction  of  every  soul  from  the  cradle  age 
to  the  age  that  is  considered  as  marking  the  natural  end  of  man's  life? 
The  Latter-day  Saints  are  largely  a  highly  educated  people,  in  the 
things  of  the  Lord ;  nevertheless,  we  are  not  as  well  educated  as 
we  ought  to  be.  We  do  not  read  enough,  we  do  not  study  enough ;  we 
do  not  pray  enough ;  or  we  would  know  more  of  the.  word  of  God  and 
of  his  will  concerning  the  people. 

When  trouble  comes  upon  us,  I  admit  that  then  we  seek  after 
him ;  and  I  think  we  are  very  much  like  the  Saints  in  the  early  days  of 
the  Church ;  those  who  were  persecuted  in  Missouri,  while  yet  the 
Church  had  a  center  in  Ohio.  The  Lord  was  telling  the  people  in 
Ohio  concerning  his  people  in  Missouri,  their  brethren,  their  brothers, 
members  of  their  own  households  in  many  cases.  He  was  telling  them 
why  the  Saints  in  Zion  or  Missouri,  had  suffered  as  they  had  suffered : 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


"I,  the  Lord,"  he  said,  "have  suffered  the  affliction  to  come  upon 
them,  wherewith  they  have  been  afflicted,  in  consequence  of  their 
transgressions ;"  and  then  with  that  pathos  and  love  ever  characteristic 
of  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord  Jesus  added: 

"Yet  I  will  own  them", — I  will  own  them.  I  can't  let  them  go. 
I  will  chasten  them  and  cleanse  them,  but  I  will  own  them  still,  "and 
they  shall  be  mine  in  that  day  when  I  shall  come  to  make  up  my 
jewels. 

"Therefore,  they  must  needs  be  chastened  and  tried,"  aye,  "even 
as  Abraham,  who  was  commanded  to  offer  up  his  only  son; 

"For  all  those  who  will  not  endure  chastening  but  deny  me, 
cannot  be  sanctified. 

"Behold  I  say  unto  you,  there  were  jarrings,  and  contentions, 
and  envyings,  and  strifes,  and  lustful  and  covetous  desires  among 
them;  therefore  by  these  things  they  polluted  their  inheritances. 

"They  were  slow  to  hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the  Lord  their 
uod,  therefore  the  Lord  their  God  is  slow  to  hearken  unto  their  prayers, 
to  answer  them  in  the  day  of  their  trouble. 

"In  the  day  of  their  peace  they  esteemed  lightly  my  counsel ;  but,  in 
the  day  of  their  trouble,  of  necessity  they  feel  after  me." 

LET  US  BE  SAINTS  INDEED  AND  NOT  PRETENDERS. 

Many  of  us  can't  stand  prosperity.  We  forget  the  Lord  until  we 
find  ourselves  in  distress,  and  thereby  we  demonstrate  that  we  are  yet 
not  wholly  what  we  profess  to  be.  I  cited  prayer  as  a  simple  illustration. 
I  ask  again,  do  we  really  pray?  We  profess  to  be  living  according 
to  the  law  of  the  tithe ;  we  profess  it ;  we  proclaim  it ;  yet  we  are 
not  living  the  law  of  the  tithe.  It  is  a  gladsome  fact  that  there  are 
many  amongst  us  who  are  conscientiously  obeying  that  law,  many 
with  whom  God  is  well  pleased;  but,  sad  to  say,  there  are  many  who 
content  themselves  with  making  a  little  donation  to  the  Lord,  and 
then  they  call  it  a  tithing.  I  understand  that  the  application  of  the 
term  is  definite.  If  we  profess  to  be  tithepayers,  let  us  be  tithe- 
payers;  not  go  around  with  a  false  face.  If  we  profess  to  be  making 
offerings  for  the  poor,  according  to  the  order  and  system  established 
in  the  Church,  the  value  of  the  two  meals  from  which  we  are  sup- 
posed to  abstain  on  fast  day,  let  us  give  that  food  for  the  help 
of  the  poor.  Do  not  pretend  to  do  it  only. 

Oh,  what  it  is  to  be  a  pretender!  I  feel  that  if  I  preach  to  you 
and  do  not  follow  my  own  preachings,  that  my  place  is  among 
the  hypocrites,  and  I  have  read  with  trembling  what  the  Lord  thinks  of 
hypocrites.  Now  I  do  not  say  you  are  hypocrites ;  I  spoke  of  my- 
self ;  but  I  know  I  would  be  a  hypocrite  if  I  profess  to  be  living  the  law 
of  the  tithe  and  simply  give  a  little  donation  to  the  Lord  that  bears  no 
proper  relation  to  the  blessing  he  has  poured  out  upon  me.  I  am 
cheating  him — think  of  it,  cheating  my  landlord  who  has  given  me 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  191 

the  place  I  call  home,  food  for  my  household,  clothing  for  my  family, 
and  many  blessings  of  life,  and  who,  moreover,  has  trusted  me  to 
keep  the  account,  and  to  reckon  up  how  much  is  due;  who  has  given 
me  those  things  on  a  graded  rental,  with  the  understanding  that  if 
times  are  hard  and  my  income  be  thereby  lessened  I  need  not  pay  him 
so  much,  because  I  do  not  get  as  much ;  and  that  if  times  are  good  and 
my  income  is  larger,  that  I  can  pay  him  a  little  more. 

Have  you  ever  found  a  landlord  in  mortality  who  would  make 
any  such  arrangement  ?  The  Lord  has  said  to  me  in  effect :  "Now  this 
has  been  a  hard  year  for  you.  You  have  not  had  as  much  income  as 
you  had  last  year.  I  am  going  to  lower  your  rent.  You  just  pay  one- 
tenth,  that  is  all,  but  it  will  be  less  than  you  paid  me  last  year." 
The  landlords  on  earth,  at  least  some,  with  whom  I  have  had  to  deal 
have  said:  "Look  here,  times  are  pretty  hard.  I  must  raise  your  rent; 
and  you  must  pay  it  in  advance."  The  Lord'  says:  Pay  when  you 
receive  the  blessing. 

Again  I  say,  Latter-day  Saints,  let  us  be  what  we  profess  to  be. 
The  Lord,  in  the  passage  I  have  read,  spoke  of  the  time  in  which 
he  would  come  to  make  up  his  jewels.  He  loves  jewels,  but  they  must 
be  genuine."  No  colored  glass  for  rubies,  no  mere  paste  for  diamonds, 
they  must  be  the  real  thing;  and  when  he  comes  to  make  up  his  jewels, 
I  would  rather  be  found  a  little  tiny  one-hundredth  of  a  carat  dia- 
mond than  a  glass  imitation  the  size  of  the  Culinam,  the  biggest 
diamond  ever  found.  The  Lord  help  us  to  be  what  we  seem  to  be, 
before  him,  before  our  brethren,  and  in  our  own  consciences,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  Master's  name.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  with  us  today  the  only  living  survivor  of  the  Pioneers 
who  came  here  with  President  Brigham  Young— Brother  Lorenzo 
Zobriskie  Young.  I  doubt  if  he  could  be  heard,  so  We  will  only  ask 
him  to  stand  up  and  let  us  take  a  look  at  him.  This  is  Brother  Young, 
the  only  surviving  member  of  President  Brigham  Young's  company, 
which  came  here  in  1847.  [He  was  one  of  the  two  children  who  came 
with  the  company— Perry  Decker,  being  the  other  child—  Clerk. \ 

PRESENTATION  OF  PEACE,  RESOLUTION. 

President  Grant  presented  the  following  resolution : 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  brought  forth  and 
established  by  the  power  of  God  and  dedicated  to  the  mission  of  preparing 
the  way  for  the  glorious  coming  of  the  Son  of  God  to  reign  in  the  earth,  in 
truth  and  righteousness  and  peace,  beholds  with  deep  interest  every  authori- 
tative movement  taken  by  the  nations  in  the  interest  of  World  Peace. 


192 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


It  is  believed  that  the  conference  called  in  Washington  to  consider  the 
limitation  of  armaments  and  questions  concerning  the  Pacific  and  nations 
of  the  Far  East  may,  under  the  favor  of  Heaven,  promote  this  great  ob- 
jective. 

To  the  end  that  it  may  do  so,  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  general  confer- 
ence now  assembled  approve  the  appointment  of  a  Sabbath  day  before  the 
eleventh  of  November,  1921,  on  which  in  all  the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion, 
and  in  all  branches  of  the  Church  in  the  United  States  and  in  the  Missions 
throughout  the  world,  the  members  of  the  Church  shall  be  called  together 
in  their  usual  places  of  worship  to  engage  in  special  and  solemn  prayer  for 
Divine  guidance  of  the  International  Conference  on  the  Limitation  of  Arma- 
ments, that  the  cause  of  Peace  may  be  thereby  enhanced,  and  an  ameli- 
oration of  the  burdens  of  mankind  secured. 

President  Grant :  It  is  moved  and  seconded  that  this  resolution  be 
adopted  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  General  Conference  assembled. 
All  in  favor  raise  the  right  hand. 

There  was  a  unanimous  vote  of  approval. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

(President  of  the  First  council  of  Seventy) 

If  I  did  not  know  that  the  gospel  is  true,  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  divinely  inspired  to  organize  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  once  more 
on  the  earth,  I  would  not  be  here  today,  and  I  would  take  no  interest 
in  this  particular  time  that  I  stand  before  you.  But  so  well  do  I  know 
of  the  truth  of  the  gospel  that  I  am  glad  of  the  opportunity,  and 
glad  of  the  honor  accorded  me  by  the  President  of  the  Church  to 
stand  before  you  for  a  few:  minutes,  and  lift  up  my  voice  in  testimony 
of  the  great  truths  that  we  all  love  and  believe  in. 

Seventy  years  ago  last  June,  on  the  23rd  day  of  that  month,  I 
sat  on  the  steps  leading  up  to  our  little  cottage  door  fronting  on  the 
Mulholland  street  on  the  outskirts  of  the  city  of  Nauvoo.  On  that  morn- 
ing, passed  before  our  cottage  a  little  distance  away,  some  sixteen 
rnen  in  a  small  company  of  horsemen,  with  the  exception  of  the  sheriff 
or  the  officer  from  Carthage  who  rode  behind  the  company  in  a 
bugev  with  two  of  his  assistants.  In  the  van  of  that  company  were 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  brother  Hyrum.  My  mother,  stand- 
ing with  her  five  little  children  on  the  steps  of  our  little  dwelling 
made  this  remark,  and  it  has  never  been  forgotten  by  me,  although 
I  never  r.e?rd  her  repeat  it  after:  "There  goes  the  Prophet  Joseph  and 
his  brother  Hyrum.  They  are  going  to  Carthage."  She  hesitated  a 
moment  and  then  she  added:  "I  fear  they  are  going  to  their  martyr- 
dom." The  days  dragged  wearily  until  the  28th  of  June. 
About  daylight,  in  the  mornings  our  neighbor,  Jacob  Gates,  who 
afterwards  became  prominent  as  one  of  the  Seven  Presidents  of  Seven- 
fv,  associated  with  my  father,  President  Joseph  Young,  knocked  at  our 
door  and  said:  "Sister  Jane,  are  you  awake?"  No  doubt  he  would  have 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 


193 


called  "Brother  Joseph,"  but  my  father  was  in  the  eastern  states  on  a 
mission.  My  mother  said:  "Yes,  Brother  Gates,"  and  I  remember  the 
startled  tone  in  which  she  asked  the  question;  "What  is  it?"    he  an- 
swered :  "The  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  brother  Hyrum  were  murdered 
in  Carthage  jail  last  night  at  5  o'clock."  For  this  dastardly  and  cruel 
deed  there  was  great  responsibility  resting  upon  the  leading  men  of  the 
state  and  especially  upon  Governor  Thomas  Ford  who,  on  the  morn- 
ing of  the  27th  of  June,  with  a  small  body  guard  went  to  the  city  of 
Nauvoo,  lea(ving  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  brother,  the  patri- 
arch Hyrum  Smith,  and  a  few  of  the  brethren  with  them  in  Carthage 
Jail  to  the  tender  mercies  of  the  state  militia,  known  as  the  Carthage 
Greys,  who  had  declared  the  day  before,  in  the  presence  of  the 
Governor,  that  they  would  take  the  lives  of  Joseph  and  Hyrum  Smith. 
I  am  sure  that  sooner  or  later  Governor  Ford  will  be  called  to  an 
account  for  that  responsibility,  and  he  with  others  guilty  of  this  terrible 
crime  will  have  to  answer  for  it  by  paying  the  uttermost  farthing.  And 
so,  with  reference  to  the  Savior  of  the  world,  Pontius  Pilate  is  still 
held  responsible  for  the  crucifixion,  and  he  has  never  been  able  to  wash 
his  hands  of  that  crime.    During  his  trial  Pilate  said  to  the  Savior, 
"What  is  truth?"  The  Savior  did  not  answer,  and  Pilate  said,  "Why 
dost  thou  not  answer  me,  dost  thou  not  know  I  can  send  thee  to  the 
cross,  or  that  I  have  power  to  set  thee  at  liberty?"    Oh,  the  awful 
responsibility  resting  upon  Pilate,  and  he,  like  Governor  Ford,  will  be 
required  to  pay  the  uttermost  farthing,  sometime,  somewhere.  There 
Ins  been  written  a  classical  poem  on  the  subject  of  the  crucifixion, 
and  Pilate's  connection  therewith.    I  will  read  you  the  poem  from 
memory,  but  will  preface  it  with  quotations  from  Matthew  27th  chap- 
ter. 

And  when  Pilate  was  set  down  on  the  judgment  seat,  his  wife  sent  unto 
him,  saying:  Have  thou  nothing  to  do  with  that  just  man:  for  I  have  suffered 
many  things  this  day  in  a  dream  because  of  him. 

And  when  Pilate  saw  that  he  could  prevail  nothing,  but  that  rather  a 
tumult  was  made,  he  took  water,  and  washed  his  hands  before  the  multitude, 
saying,  I  am  innocent  of  the  blood  of  this  just  person;  see  ye  to  it. 

THE  DREAM  OF  PILATE'S  WIFE 

You  cannot  wash  your  hands  of  this:  that  crimson  would  defy 

The  many  waters  of  the  sea,  the  cisterns  of  the  sky. 

His  blood  will  be  upon  your  name:  nor  years  can  wash  it  white — 

Not  till  the  leaping  seas  shall  wash  the  great  stars  from  the  night. 

You  say  the  Galilean  only  dreams  a  foolish  dream, 

That  he  is  but  an  idle  leaf  upon  an  idle  stream. 

No,  he  is  the  man  of  the  people,  hated  by  scribe  and  priest: 

He  is  the  fear  at  the  Temple  door,  the  specter  at  the  feast. 

Shall  the  whispering  house  of  Annas  draw  down  upon  your  head  , 
The  hatred  of  the  future  and  the  shadow  of  the  dead?  .  . 

Why  palter  with  this  priestly  crew?    They  hold  a  long  intent: 
When  the  wheels  of  the  street  have  pity,  will  the  hearts  of  the  priests 
relent  ? 


194  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

i 

You  say  you  fear  Tiberius, — you  fear  the  roar  of  Rome; 

But  this  man  is  to  Caesar  as  a  sca-rock  is  to  foam. 

Whoever  turns  from  this  man's  truth,  he  takes  the  thorns  for  bed, 

He  plows  the  seas  for  gardens,  and  he  sows  the  sand  for  bread. 

Oh,  let  the  Galilean  go,  strike  off  his  cruel  bond. 
Behold  that  fathomless  silence  and  those  eyes  that  look  beyond. 
There's  more  than  mortal  in  that  face, — than  earthly  in  this  hour; 
The  fate  that  now  is  in  the  bud  will  soon  be  in  the  flower. 

0  Pilate,  I  have  suffered  many  things  in  dream  today 
Because  of  this  strange  teacher  of  the  strait  and  mystic  way: 

1  saw  him  hanging  on  a  cross,  where  the  stones  of  Golgoth  are: 
Then  laid,  at  last,  in  a  guarded  tomb,  under  the  evening  star. 

I  saw  him  rise  again  one  dawn  and  down  a  garden  gc. 
Shining  like  great  Apollo  white,  our  god  of  the  silver  bow: 
And  then  the  wind  of  vision  tore  the  veil  of  time  apart, 
And  love  of  him  ran  greatening  from  camel-path  to  mart; 
His  story  was  a  wonder  on  the  eager  lips  of  men, 
The  scourged  Galilean  walked  the  roads  of  earth  again.. 
I  saw  Jerusalem  go  down  before  the  wrath  of  spears, 
And  turn  into  a'  field  of  stones  under  the  trampling  years. 

All  these  fair  towers  and  walls  went  down,  with  a  great  and  terrible 
cry, 

While  signs  and  portents  so  threw  on  earth  their  shadows  from  the 
sky, 

Where  spectral  warriors  strode  the  clouds  like  giant  cherubim, 
Going  to  battle  in  the  night,  now  glorious,  now  dim. 
Then  whispers  wild;  the  shout  of  crazing  prophets  on  the  street; 
The  wail  of  mothers  by  their  dead;  the  sound  of  running  feet; 
And  then  the  temple  reddened  up,  and  stood,,  a  cone  of  flame. 
Then  ashes,  and  Jerusalem  had  withered  to  a  name. 

World-battles  raged  around  this  man,  the  world's  mysterious  king; 

But  over  the  storm  of  ages  I  could  hear  the  Seven-Stars  sing. 

Rome  crumbled  and  I  heard  a  voice  across  the  ruin  laugh; 

A  Power  had  risen  on  the  world,  shaking  its  thrones  as  chaff. 

And  down  the  ages  rang  your  name,  a  byword  and  a  jeer: 

"He  suffered  under  Pilate!"  sounded  ever  in  my  ear. 

The  deeds  of  some  are  clean  forgot,  but  yours  did  breathe  and  live; 

Some  are  forgiven  in  the  end,  but  none  could  you  forgive. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

{Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

I  desire  to  call  your  attention,  for  just  a  few  moments,  to  the 
resolution  which  you  so  unanimously,  and,  as  I  judge,  enthusiastically 
voted  to  sustain.  I  am  sorry  that  we  shall  not  have  larger  opportunity 
io  go  into  the  theme  which  that  resolution  naturally  presents  to  our 
minds.  I  do  not  know  whether  the  international  conference  on  the 
limitation  of  armaments,  to  be  held  in  Washington  beginning  on  the 
third  anniversary  of  the  signing  of  the  armistice,  which  brought  to  its 
close  the  great  World  War — I  do  not  know,  I  say,  if  that  conference 
will  result  really  in  the  limitation  of  armaments  among  the  great 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


195 


nations  that  will  be  represented  in  that  conference.  I  realize,  I  think, 
in  part  at  least,  the  great  difficulties  that  confront  such  a  conference 
in  the  present  unsettled  state  of  affairs  of  these  nations;  but  while 
I  do  not  know  whether  it  will  be  successful  or  not,  I  think,  I  do  know 
that  it  is  the  duty  of  the  membership  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  to  put  forth  every  effort  within  their  power 
to  further  the  probability  of  the  limitation  of  armaments  among-  the 
nations  of  the  earth.  The  old  theory  used  to  be  that  in  order  to  preserve 
peace  you  must  be  prepared  for  war.  The  years  between  August,  1914, 
and  the  11th  day  of  November,  1918,  demonstrated  the  fallacy  of  that 
theory.  I  am  sure  if  there  shall  come  an  agrement  upon  the  limitation 
of  armaments,  a  long  step  will  have  been  taken  in  the  direction  of 
world-peace,  and  therefore  even  if  there  exists  but  just  a  bare 
probability  that  something  favorable  in  the  interest  of  world-peace  may 
be  accomplished,  it  is  becoming  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Later-day  Saints  to  make  it  known  in  all  the  world  that  we  stand  in 
favor  of  every  movement  that  even  holds  out  a  prospect  of  peace  on 
earth  and  good  will  to  men.  I  can  only  refer  to  just  one  concrete 
example  of  the  folly  of  what  the  nations  of  the  earth  are  doing  in  this 
mad  struggle  that  they  are  engaged  in,  in  the  competition  of  arma- 
ments. 

The  Government  of  the  United  States  recently  received  from  the 
contractors  the  battleship  Maryland.  It  is  the  proudest  possession  of 
our  navy.  It  requires  a  crew  of  fifteen  hundred  men  to  man  it,  and 
one  hundred  officers,  making  in  all  to  man  that  one  battleship  sixteen 
hundred  men  who  are,  of  course,  withdrawn  from  productive  pursuits  in 
life.  It  was  builded  at  a  cost  of  forty-two  millions  of  dollars.  It  has  as  its 
chief  armament  eight  sixteen-inch  guns  at  a  cost  of  two  hundred  fifty- 
six  thousand  dollars  per  gun.  The  guns  can  be  fired  one  hundred  times, 
and  then  they  go  to  the  junk  heap.  That  is  one  of  our  battleships. 
Its  life  of  usefulness  and  effectiveness  will  be  eight  years.  After 
eight  years,  you  must  by  that  time  have  another  ship  of  the  same 
calibre  and  quality  to  take  its  place,  with  still  further  ships  if  you 
are  going  to  keep  your  relative  position  in  the  naval  strength  of  the 
world.  We  have  three  such  great  battleships  as  this,  that  is,  we  have 
two  others  of  the  same  type,  the  Colorado  and  the  California.  We  have 
eight  other  battleships  in  course  of  construction,  but  the  dates  of  their 
completion  are  not  fixed,  at  the  present  time.  If  our  own  naval  pro- 
gram shall  proceed  as  planned,  and  England  shall  go  on  with  her 
program  as  planned,  by  the  completion  of  these  programs,  we  shall 
nearly  have  overtaken  the  great  navy  of  the  world-wide  empire  of  Eng- 
land. Japan,  to  keep  up  in  the  mad  race,  is  likely  to  ruin  her  people 
in  that  effort.  She  can  only  maintain  her  relative  position  in  the  strug- 
gle, by  a  continuation  of  her  predatory  methods,  by  encroaching 
upon  the  rights  and  privileges  of  other  nations  in  order  to  make  good 
her  part  in  her  alleged  struggle  for  existence,  and  her  naval  program  is 
said  to  be  attendant  upon  it. 


196 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


And  so  one  might  go  on  to  call  attention  to  the  varying  phases 
of  this  useless  competition  going  on  in  the  world,  in  the  matter  of 
naval  armament,  to  say  nothing  of  the  army  programs  and  the  develop- 
ment of  land  forces  in  the  several  nations  of  the  earth.  We  have  evi- 
dently come  to  the  time  when  there  will  come  through  limitation 
of  armaments  the  security  of  the  world's  peace,  or  we  shall  go  on  and  on 
until  we  repeat— which  God  forbid — repeat  the  awful  cataclysm  of  war 
and  destruction  such  as  we  witnessed  during  the  world's  great  war 
but  recently  closed. 

The  Lord  gave  a  commandment  unto  his  people,  early  in  the  his- 
tory of  this  dispensation,  at  the  time  when  they  were  driven  from 
their  homes  in  Missouri  and  inquired  earnestly  of  the  Lord  to  know 
what  they  were  to  do.  He  commanded  them  to  raise  a  standard  of  peace, 
not  only  in  reference  to  those  who  had  maltreated  them,  and  driven 
them  from  their  homes,  but  to  raise  a  standard  of  peace  to  +he  whole 
world,  and  to  proclaim  peace.  (Doc.  and  Coc.  105:38-40).  That  is 
our  mission,  chiefly  our  mission,  to  prepare  the  way  for  the  coming  of 
the.  Prince  of  Peace  himself,  whom  the  angels  and  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth  shall  j.gain  proclaim  the  giver  of  "peace  on  earth, 
good  will  to  man."  That  is  our  program;  and  since  this  inter- 
national conference  proposes  to  limit  the  armaments  cf  both  land  and 
sea  forces,  I  for  one  hail  it  as  an  indication  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
is  working  in  the  hearts  of  the  people  and  the  leading  statesmen 
of  the  world  to  bring  to  pass  peace  among  the  nations,  and  so  I  want 
the  privilege,  for  one,  of  standing  in  the  midst  of  my  fellows  and 
at  least  raising  my  voice  in  good  cheer  towards  the  achievement 
of  that  noble  end  which  the  conference  has  in  view.  But,  Latter-day 
Saints,  if  this  resolution  just  passed  is  not  of  the  spirit,  and  if  it  be  not 
your  intent  to  rise  as  one  man  in  Israel  and  pledge  your  earnest  effort, 
with  prayer  to  God,  for  the  achievement  of  this  thing,  I  pray  you 
cancel  the  vote  that  you  have  cast.  Let  us  either  not  do  this  thing, 
or  do  it  with  all  the  --irength  and  power  that  God  will  give  to  us 
in  desire  and  in  prayer. 

I  shall  conclude,  however  reluctantly  I  leave  the  theme — I  shall 
conclude  by  reading  to  you  a  prayer  which  perhaps  in  the  meeting 
that  you  are  to  hold  on  the  day  appointed,  when  you  shall  assemble  in 
solemn  prayer  service  for  this  great  cause,  might  not  be  inappropriate. 
It  is  a  prayer  which  was  given  by  revelation  of  God,  ninety  years  ago, 
through  the  Prophet  of  the  new  dispensation.  There  seems  to'  be  no 
historical  conditions  existing  at  that  time  that  especially  called  for 
such  a  prayer.  It  is  introduced  in  the  history  of  the  Prophet  with 
the  mere  statement  that  "In  the  fore  part  of  October  I  received  the 
following  prayer  through  inspiration."  The  heading  of  the  prayer  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is  as  follows : 

"Revelation  on  prayer,  given  through  Joseph,  the  Seer,  at  Hiram 
Portage  Co.,  Ohio,  in  the  fore  part  of  October,  1831." 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


197 


And  this  is  the  prayer ;  and,  like  all  the  prayers  given  of  God,  it  is 
brief : 

Hearken,  and  lo,  a  voice  as  of  one  from  o,n  high,  who  is  mighty  and 
powerful,  whose  going  forth  is  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  yea,,  whose  voice 
is  unto  men — Prepare  ye  the  way  of  the  Lord,  make  his  paths  straight. 

The  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  are  committed  unto  man  on  the  earth, 
and  from  thence  shall  the  gospel  roll  forth  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  as  the 
stone  which  is  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands  shall  roll  forth,  until 
it  has  filled  the  whole  earth; 

Yea,  a  voice  crying — Prepare  ye  the  way  of  the  'Lord,  prepare  ye  the 
supper  of  the  Lamb,  make  ready  for  the  Bridegroom; 

Pray  unto  the  Lord,  call  upon  his  holy  name,  make  known  his  wonder- 
ful works  among  the  people; 

Call  upon  the  Lord,  that  his  kingdom  may  go  forth  upon  the  earth, 
that  the  inhabitants  thereof  may  receive  it,  and  be  prepared  for  the  days 
to  come,  in  the  which  the  Son  of  man  shall  come  down  in  heaven,  clothed 
in  the  brightness  of  his  glory,  to  meet  the  kingdom  of  God  which  is  set  up 
on  the  earth; 

Wherefore  may  the  kingdom  of  God  go  forth,  that  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  may  come,  that  thou,  O  God,  mayest  be  glorified  in  heaven  so  on 
earth,  that  thy  enemies  may  be  subdued;  for  thine  is  the  honor,  power  and 
glory,  forever  and  ever.  Amen. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

■  I  fear  lest  I  shall  say  a  word  to  detract  in  any  measure  from  the 
noble  themes  of  this  conference,  for  the  subject  which,  with  the  help 
of  the  Lord,  I  would  present  for  your  brief  consideration,  is  indeed 
a  very  humble  one. 

HOME,  THE  BASIC  INSTITUTION. 

i 

When  I  contemplate  the  great  organization  of  the  Church,  with 
all  the  means  and  facilities  which  the  Lord  has  placed  at  our  com- 
mand to  carry  forward  his  work,  to  educate  the  people  in  the  ways 
of  the  Lord,  and  to  ultimately  establish  his  kingdom,  I  always  revert  to 
one  great  institution  as  being  basic  in  its  nature,  and  fundamental 
in  its  importance.  That  one  institution,  to  my  thinking,  has  done 
more  to  influence  the  lives  of  human  beings  than  has  any  other  of 
the  institutions  given  to  us.  It  is  the  sacred  institution  of  the  home. 

THE  GREAT  AUXILIARIES  CAN  NOT  TAKE  THE  PLACE  OF  HOME 

< 

I  have  for  a  considerable  number  of  years  had  the  opportunity 
of  engaging  in  the  work  of  the  various  organizations  of  the  Church. 
I  know  something  of  the  great  accomplishments  of  the  auxiliary 
organizations  which  devote  themselves,  in  large  measure,  to  the  care 
and  culture  of  the  young.  I  know  what  great  effort  is  put  forth  by  them 
to  teach  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  to  stimulate  righteousness  in  the 


198  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

hearts  of  the  youth  of  Israel.  It  is  my  observation  that  these  great 
institutions  of  the  Church,  however  much  of  good  they  may  accomplish, 
can  in  no  sense  take  the  place  of  the  home.  They  cannot  be  proxy 
for  parents.  Men  and  women  to  whom  have  been  given  the  most 
priceless  heritage  given  of  God  to  man — children — can  in  no  wise 
escape  the  great  responsibility  devolving  upon  them — to  rear  their 
children  in  the  fear  and  admonition  of  the  Lord. 

THE  OLD  FASHIONED  HOME  DETERIORATING. 

I  have  been  led  to  think  that  the  old  fashioned  home  is  deterio- 
rating. I  have  feared  that  its  influence  upon  humanity  is  becoming  less 
and  less.  We  have  come  to  regard  the  places  in  which  we  live  as  mere 
accomodations,  mere  boarding  houses,  wherein  we  eat  and  sleep  and 
from  which  we  are  to  make  our  escape  as  soon  as  may  be.  This  charac- 
terization does  not  apply  to  all  homes;  but  I  believe  that  it  applies 
to  altogether  too  many  homes. 

HOME,  THE  FOUNDATION  OF  SOCIETY. 

I  believe  in  the  home  as  the  foundation  of  society,  as  the  cor- 
nerstone of  the  nation,  and  as  the  primary  institution  of  the  Church.  I 
cannot  conceive  of  a  great  people  without  great,  good  homes.  I  believe 
that  the  first  calling  of  man  and  woman  is  to  form  a  good  home. 
I  know  of  no  honor  that  can  come  to  men  and  women  that  exceeds 
the  honor  of  father  and  of  mother,  I  regret  that  not  all  men  who  enter 
in*o  this  sacred  relationship,  which  lies  at  the  foundation  of  home,  are 
real  fathers ;  and  I  likewise  regret  that  every  woman  who  comes  into 
the  temple  of  the  home  as  its  priestess  does  not  in  full  comprehend 
the  great  responsibility  and  the  wonderful,  privilege  bestowed  upon  her. 
I  sometimes  think  that  the  processes  of  modern  education  are  inclined 
to  educate  our  people  away  from  home  rather  than  to  home. 

NO  GREATER  DISTINCTION   THAN  MOTHERHOOD. 

I  believe  that  no  greater  distinction  may  come  to  the  women  of  our 
land  than  to  be  in  verity  mothers  in  Israel.  I  am  not  unmindful  of  the 
progress  that  woman  has  made  in  the  last  half  century  and  of  her 
present  influence  in  public  and  other  affairs.  I  welcome  that  influence. 
I  am  always  willing  that  our  women  should  take  a  large  interest 
and  exercise  a  large  influence  upon  all  the  affairs  of  State  and  of 
Church,  but  I  want  to  say  that  no  woman  can  ever  attain  a  place  of  re- 
nown and  distinction  for  any  work  performed  in  this  world  that  is 
comparable  with  the  high  place  of  mother  and  wife. 

THERE  IS  NO  GREATER  CALLING  THAN  FATHERHOOD. 

I  want  our  men,  to  know  that  of  all  the  vocations  they  may  pursue 
in  this  life,  no  vocation  is  fraught  with  so  much  responsibility  and  attend- 
ed with  such  boundless  opportunity  as  the  great  calling  of  husband  and 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


199 


father.  In  this  Church  I  believe  w.e  have  the  highest  and  mos'  exaked 
conception  of  home  and  family  lhat  exis's  anywhere  in  the  wide  world. 
Attention  has  already  been  called  to  the  fact  that  we  base  our  very  hope 
for  exaltation  and  eternal  life  upon  those  relationships  that  lie  at  the 
basis  of  home.  No  man,  whatever  his  accomplishments  may  be,  can,  in 
my  judgment,  be  said  to  have  achieved  success  in  this  life  if,  when 
he  goes  hence  he  may  not  take  his  posterity  with  him,  and  may  not  be 
surrounded  by  them  in  the  day  of  the  Lord,  when  he  shall  be  called 
upon  to  account  for  his  life  in  the  flesh. 

AfN  APPEAL  TO  THE  FATHERS  AND  MOTHERS  OF  ISRAEL. 

Time  will  not  permit  the  elaboration  of  this  humble  but  exalted 
theme.  I  would  that  every  father  and  mother  in  Zion  would  bind  their 
children  to  them  with  ties  of  love  and  affection  that  will  hold  them 
safe  in  the  hours  of  temptation  and  danger  and  trial.  We  of  thcaux- 
iliary  associations  and  institutions  of  the  Church  cannot  hope  to  do  more 
for  you  than  merely  to  supplement  and  complement  the  work  of  the 
home.  You  can  not  place  the  chief  responsibility  with  us  ;  and,  therefore, 
I  appeal,  in  the  name  of  the  children,  to  the  fathers  and  mothers  of 
Israel,  for  closer  attention  'o  and  study  of  that  great  institution,  the 
home.  I  appeal  for  more  of  comradeship  between  father  and  son,  for 
more  of  chumship,  confidence,  and  love  between  mother  and  daughter. 
I  believe  in  home-made  men  and  women.  T  believe  they  are  more 
assured  of  success  in  life;  they  will  make  better  citizens;  that  they 
will  accomplish  their  destiny  far  more  acceptably  to  our  Father,  than  will 
lodge-made  and  club-made,  fraternity-made,  union-made,  society-made 
men  and  women.  I  plead  for  the  return  to  old-fashioned,  domestic 
family  life,  that  there  may  be  stimulated  in  the  hearts  of  men  a  love 
for  home  and  all  its  surroundings ;  and  as  we  now  disperse  to  go  to  our 
several  homes,  up  and  down  this  land,  God  grant  that  that  great  insti- 
tution may  be  the  place  where  Latter-day  Saints  are  nurtured  and 
conserved,  and  where  a  citizenship  of  this  great  nation  and'  of  this  great 
Church  shall  be  assured  for  the  establishment  of  our  Father's  kingdom, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and,  by  vote  of 
the  assembled  multitude,  they  were  unanimously  sustained  in  their 
various  offices  and  callings  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH. 

First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator 
and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


200 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Charles  W.  Penrose,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson. 

Cauncil  of  Twelve  Apostles :  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot,  George 
Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O. 
McKay,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Rich- 
ards, Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Wid'tsoe, 

Presiding  Patriarch:  Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

The  counselors  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventy :  Seymour  B.  Young,  Brigham 
H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMur- 
rin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young. 

Presiding  Bishopric :  Charles  W.  Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop ; 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor,  John  Wells,  Second  Counselor. 

Trust ee-in-Trust:  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Trustee-in  Trust,  for  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  as  Chuich 
Historian  and  Recorder,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew  Jensoiv, 
Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

Church  Board  of  Education :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Willard  Young,  Rudger  Clawson,  Orson  F.  Whit- 
ney, Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  David  O.  McKay,  Stephen  L.  Richards, 
Richard  R.  Lyman;  Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer. 

Commissioners  of  Education :  David  O.  McKay,  Stephen  L.  Rich- 
ards, Richard  R.  Lyman. 

Superintendent  of  Church  Schools:  Adam  S.  Bennion. 

Auditing  committee :  William  W.  Riter,  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  John 
C.  Cutler,  Heber  Scowcroft,  Peter  G.  Johnston. 

Tabernacle  Choir:  Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor;  B.  Cecil  Gates, 
Asistant  Conductor ;  John  J.  MlcClellan,  Organist ;  Edward  P.  Kimball, 
Assistant  Organist;  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Assistant  Organist;  George  C. 
Smith,  Secretary  and  Treasurer.  And  all  the  members  of  the  Choir. 

Clerk  of  General  Conference :  Edward  H.  Anderson. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

PRESIDENT  EMMELINE  B.  WELLS. 

Since  our  last  meeting  here,  in  general  conference,  one  of  the 
most  faithful  and  best  beloved,  and  most  remarkable  workers  in  the 
Church  among  our  sisters,  has  passed  away,  the  late  Emmeline  B. 
Wells,  who  lives  in  the  hearts  a"d  memory  of  the  people.  She  bore 


CHURCH  AUTHORITIES 


201 


testimony  to  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  from  my 
earliest  recollection  until  she  passed  away,  some  ninety-odd  years  of  age, 
with  a  power,  a  force,  and  a  spirit  that  I  have  seldom  heard  from  the 
lips  of  any  person.  I  rejoice  that  she  had  the  opportunity  of  travel- 
ing over  the  stakes  of  Zion,  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  and  in  many 
foreign  lands,  in  attending  many  gatherings  of  noted  women  in  the 
world,  at  home  in  these  United  States  and  abroad. Wherever  she  went  she 
bore  that  testimony  and,  by  the  integrity  of  her  heart,  by  the  wonder- 
ful and  splendid  intellect  that  she  had,  and  above  all,  by  the  burning 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  in  which  we  as  Latter-day 
Saints  are  engaged,  she  made  friends  for  this  people  among  all 
those  with  whom  she  came  in  contact. 

REGRETS  THE  LIMIT  OF  TIME. 

There  has  been  but  one  regret  in  my  mind  during  this  conference, 
and  that  is  that  we  have  had  to  limit  the  time  of  the  speakers,  asking 
some  not  to  exceed  ten  minutes,  others  not  to  exceed  fifteen,  and 
allowing  none  to  go  beyond  twenty  minutes.  I  sometimes  feel  that 
we  make  a  mistake  in  not  having  four  days  of  conference,  so  that 
when  men  are  speaking  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  living 
God,  they  will  not  feel  that  they  have  to  say  "Amen"  upon  the  mo- 
ment. At  the  same  time,  I  believe  that  we  feel  better  and  that  we 
accomplish  more,  if  we  can  start  on  time  and  close  on  time. 

BLESSINGS  FOR  THE  PEOPLE. 

I  feel  to  bless  the  people  for  the  wonderful  attendance  at  this 
conference.  I  feared  on  account  of  the  hard  times,  and  the  great 
financial  depression,  that  our  conference  would  not  be  as  largely  at- 
tended as  heretofore;  but  our  gatherings  here  this  morning,  in  this 
building,  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  in  the  overflow  meetings,  and 
our  gatherings  this  afternoon  in  all  three  of  those  meetings,  I  believe 
have  been  larger  than  upon  any  other  occasion  in  the  history  of  the 
Church.  Zion  is"  growing.  The  faith  of  the  people  is  enlarging.  Their 
attendance  at  their  sacrament  meetings,  and  at  their  priesthood  meetings 
is  increasing  and  they  are  becoming  more  and  more  faithful  in  perform- 
ing the  duties  and  the  obligations  that  rest  upon  them  in  the  auxiliary 
associations.  They  are  doing  better ;  more  work  is  being  accomplished 
in  the  temples  than  ever  before;  and  the  people  are  growing  in  the 
light  and  the  knowledge  and  testimony  and  the  love  of  the  gospel. 
I  pray  God  to  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  every  land  and  in 
every  clime,  I  pray  for  hip  blessing  upon  the  honest  the  world 
over,  and  I  pray  for  peace  and  happiness  to  come  to  the  inhabitants 
of  the  world. 

We  will  now  close  our  conference  for  six  months,  by  the  choir 
singing  the  words  of  a  song  given  by  revelation  from  God  contained 
in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  84. 


202 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  music  was  written  by  a  former  citizen  of  this  state,  Arthur 
Shepherd,  who  has  gained  for  himself  a  national  reputation  as  a  com- 
poser of  music. 

The  Lord  hath  brought  again  Zion : 
The  Lord  hath  redeemed  his  people,  Israel, 
According  to  the  election  of  grace, 
Which  was  brought  to  pass  by  the  faith 
And  covenant  of  their  fathers. 

The  Lord  hath  redeemed  his  people, 
And  Satan  is  bound  and  time  is  no  longer : 
The  Lord  hath  gathered  all  things  in  one: 
The  Lord  hath  brought  down  Zion  from  above. 
The  Lord  hath  brought  up  Zion  from  beneath. 

The  earth  hath  travailed  and  brought  forth  her  strength  : 
And  truth  is  established  in  her  bowels : 
And   t It f   hpp"<~'"c   have   smiled   noon  her: 
And  she  is  clothed  with  the  glory  of  her  God. 
For  he  stands  in  the  midst  of  his  people; 

Glory,  and  honor,  and  power,  and  might, 

Be  ascribed  to  our  God ;  for  he  is  full  of  mercy, 

Justice,  grace  and  truth,  and  peace, 

For  ever  and  ever,  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem,  (words  from  Section  84  Doc.  & 
Cov.)  "The  Lord  hath  brought  again  Zion." 

Conference  was  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  J.  William  Henderson, 
President  of  the  Panguitch  stake  of  Zion. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Professor  J.  J.  McClellan  played  the  accompaniments 
and  interludes,  etc.,  on  the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward  P. 
Kimball  and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon.  Stenographic  reports  of  the  dis- 
courses were  made  in  the  Tabernacle  by  Franklin  W.  Otterstrom, 
assisted  by  Clarence  Cramer  and  Clyde  Rasmussen ;  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  and  Bureau  of  Information,  by  Frederick  E.  Barker 
and  Fred  G.  Barker. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 

Page 


Authorities,  General    199 

Authorities  Present    1 

Bennion,  Elder  Owen    116 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O.   56 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   96 


Importance  of  Missionary  Work,  96 — The  Saints  Have  Always 
Proved  True  to  Missionary  Obligations,  97 — Dispensation  of  Preach- 
ing to  the  Gentiles  Drawing  to  a  Close,  97 — Let  Us  Round  Up  Our 
Shoulders  to  our  Duty,  While  the  Day  Lasts,  98 — Our  Duty  to  the 
Gathered  Sajnts,  98 — The  Gospel  the  Key  to  Solve  the  World's  Vex- 
ing Problerris,  99 — God's  Work  Will  Not  Fail,  Nor  Be  Given  to 
Another  People,  99— Zion  Shall  Not  Be  Moved  Out  of  Her  Place, 
100 — An  Appeal  to  Follow  the  Counsel  of  Our  Leaders,  100 — Ask 
the  Lord  for  Counsel,  101 — The  Basis  of  Material  Blessings,  101 — ■ 


The  Danger  of  Immorality,  102. 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   67 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   179 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   34 

Sacrifice  and  Burnt  Offerings  Typical  of  the  Atonement  of  Christ, 
34 — Requirements  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  Concerning  the  Atone- 
ment, 35 — The  Atonement  of  Christ  the  Supreme  Sacrifice,  36, 

Dye,  Elder  Joseph  H   148 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

The  Sanctifying  Power  of  Distress,  As  Illustrated  in  the  History 
of  the  Saints,  2 — Present  Distress  and  Debt,  3 — Faith,  Integrity  and 
Devotion  of  the  Saints,  3 — Progress  in  the  Mission  Field,  4 — About 
the  Labors  of  Missionaries,  5 — Appeal  to  the  Saints  to  Keep  Mission- 
aries in  the  Field,  5 — Missionary  Work  the  Greatest  of  all  in  the 


World,  5 — Wonderful  Missionary  Labors  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  6 — 
The  Best  Law  in  the  World  to  Make  Better  Latter-day  Saints,  6 — 
The  Law  of  Health  and  Wealth,  7 — A  Practical  Lesson  on  the  Worth 
of  a  Dollar  in  Home  Industry,  9 — Home  Manufactured  Goods,  9 — 
Buy  Home   Made  Goods,   11— Cooperation  Advised,   12 — Charity 


Enjoined,  13. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   13 

Statistical,  13. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   64 

First  Section  Doc.  and  Cov.,  64. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   87 

"When  dark  and  drear  the  skies  appear,"  87. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   93 

Word  from  Waterloo^  93. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   106 

"Come,  thou  glorious  day  of  promise,"  106. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   185 

Word  from  Calcutta,  185. 


204 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Page 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   191 

Presentation  of  Peace  Resolution,  191. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   199 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  199. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   200 

President  Emmeline  B.  Wells.  200 — Regrets  the  Limit  of  Time,  201 — ■ 
Blessings  for  the  People,  201 — "The  Lord  hath  brought  again 
Zion,"  202. 

Goddard,  Elder  Benjamin    144 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   62 

Iverson,  Elder  Heber  C   71 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   25 

The  Story  of  the  Imperial  Valley,  25 — Its  Application,  26 — Have  the 
People  Become  Careless  in  Their  Fancied  Security?  26 — A  Warning 
Voice.  27 — The  Burden  of  the  Great  War,  27 — Our  Local  Financial 
Condition,  27 — The  Warning  Voice  Unheeded,  28 — Where  the  Bond- 
age of  Debt  Falls,  28 — Avoid  Mortgaging  the  Home,  29 — What  Caused 
the  Disruption  of  the  Kingdom  of  Israel?  29 — Enslavement  of  the  Peo- 
ple Caused  by  the  Bondage  of  Debt,  30 — An  Example  from  the  Scrip- 
tures, 30 — Importance  of  the  Ownership  of  Land,  Danger  of  Borrow- 
ing, 31 — How  the  Prevailing  Condition  Can  be  Modified,  31 — Perti- 
nent Questions  for  the  People  to  Answer,  32 — Conclusions  Based  on 
the  Word  of  the  Lord  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  32 — Let  Us  Not  Be 
Deceived,  but  Faithfully  Discharge  Our  Duties,  33 — A  Prayer  for  the 
Watchmen  on  the  Towers  of  Zion,  33. 

Jenson,  Elder  Andrew    118 

Jensen,  Elder  Nephi   60 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden    83 

Knight,  Elder  John  M   23 

Lambert,  Elder  James  N   133 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   103 

Two  Types  of  Great  Speakers,  103 — President  Grant's  Words  Urge 
Us  to  Action,  103— On  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  103— On  Home  In- 
dustry, 104 — Religious  and  Industrial  Training  of  Children,  105 — A 
Stupendous  Piece  of  Work  Before  the  Saints,  106. 

Miller,  Elder  Arnold  G   110 

McCune,  Elder  George  W   .49,  172 

McKay,  Elder  James  Gunn    155 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W   73 

Monson,  Elder  Walter  P   163 

Nibley,  Elder  Charles  W   87 

Penrose,  President  Charles  W   14 

Faith  the  Beginning  of  our  Religion,  15 — Missionary  Work  and 
Means,  16— The  Spirit,  Not  the  Flesh,  Should  Govern,  18— Faith  and 
Purity  to  be  Taught  in  the  Home,  18 — Our  Duty  to  Love  God  and 
Serve  Him  in  the  Name  of  Jesus  Christ,  19 — Finance  Circulation — 
Pay  What  Thou  Owest,  19 — The  Priesthood  Entitled  to  Inspiration, 
20 — Remember  the  Lord  Both  in  Joy  and  Sorrow.  20 — We  Are 
Wonderfully  Blessed  as  a  People,  21 — Determine  to  Serve  God  and 


INDEX. 


205 


Page 

Keep  His  Commandments,  21 — Crowned  with  Glory,  Immortality,  ; 
and  Eternal  Lives,  22 — Blessings    and  Counsel  for  the  Laboring 


Authorities,  22. 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   53 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   166 

Richards,  Elder  George  F  '. .  182 


The  Nobility  of  Our  Ancestry  and  Birth,  182 — The  Purpose  of  Our 
Being,  182 — Jesus  Christ  Our  Great  Captain,  183 — Willingness  of 
the  Saints  to  Work,  183— The  Wonderful  Achievements  Made,  184. 
Home,  the  Basic  Institution,  197 — The  Great  Auxiliaries  Can  Not 
Take  the  Place  of  Home,  197 — The  Old  Fashioned  Home  De- 
teriorating, 198 — Home  the  Foundation  of  Society,  198 — No  Greater 
Distinction  Than  Motherhood,  198 — There  is  no  Greater  Calling  Than 
Fatherhood,  198 — An  Appeal  to  the  Fathers  and  Mothers  in  Israel, 


199. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H   194 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   197 

Shepherd,  Elder  Joseph  R   129 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   57 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   140 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert    36 


Mission  Conditions  in  Europe,  36 — Prejudices  Against  Our  Message 
to  the  World  Somewhat  Allayed,  37 — Famine  in  the  World  for  the 
Word  of  God,  38— The  Foundation  Upon  Which  We  Build  Our 
Faith,  38 — The  Fundamental  Principles  of  the  Gospel  Superior  to 
Ethics,  39 — Necessity  of  Teaching  the  First  Principles  and  Or- 
dinances of  the  Gospel,  40 — Our  Duty  to  the  World  of  Mankind,  41 
— Let  Us  Fear  the  Bondage  of  Iniquity  as  Well  as  the  Bondage  of 
Debt,  41— The  Promise  of  Eternal  Life  Conditioned,  42— Are  We 
Grateful?  43. 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert    143 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   158 

The  World  Tgnorant  of  Conditions  Confronting  It,  158 — Our  Re- 
ligious Belief,  158 — Natural  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Should  Seek 
the  Lord,  159— The  Results  of  Joseph's  Vision,  160— Our  Gratitude 
Due  to  Father  in  Heaven,  161 — The  Sweetest  Testimony  of  All,  161 — 
Comforting  Testimony,  162— A  Prayer  for  Peace,  Love  and  Order, 
162. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G   93 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   185 

Elimination  of  God  from  Education,  185— Courses  of  Study  in  Con- 
flict with  Fundamental  Truths,  185— Jesus  Christ  the  Son  of  the 
Living  God— A  Fundamental  Truth,  186— Criticism  from  a  Great 
Citizen,  186— The  Christian  Faith  Cannot  be  Harmonized  with  the 
Foolishness  of  Men,  187. 


Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G   68 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G   137 

Smith,  Winslow  Farr    54 

Smith,  Winslow  Farr    170 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E   187 


206 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


In  Harmony  with  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  Wise  Counsel,  187 — 
Counsel  is  Binding  Upon  the  Saints,  187— Let  Us  be  Genuine  and 
Live  Up  to  Our  Professions,  188— Blessings  Come  Through  Com- 
pliance With  Law,  189— Why  Afflictions  Come,   189— Let  Us  Be 


Saints  Indeed  and  not  Pretenders,  190. 

Taylor,  Elder  Thomas  N   151 

Wells,  Elder  Junius  F   77 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   80 

Wells,  Elder  John    51 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   45 

People  Responding  to  the  Requirements  Made  of  the  Lord,  45 — A 
Wonderful  Feast  at  this  Conference,  46 — Two  Classes  of  Scholars, 
46 — Ethics  vs.  A  Living,  Vital  Religion,  47 — A  Priesthood  With  a 
True  Conception  of  God,  48 — -The  Great  Need  of  the  World  is  a 
True  Conception  of  God,  49. 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   107 

A  Testimony  Full  of  Joy,  107 — Marvel  of  the  Settlements  in  Utah, 

109— All  Life  Waits  on  Us,  110. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    90 

Young,  Elder  Seymour  B   192 


^tfimiiQiiiniiuiif  iui  luuumuiiiuiuiiinmnmmf  iimiinmiiiiiii]  [imiin  mum  imtuuiinti  1 1  Hiiiiimiunn  i  imitittiuiiiiiuHuiutuiuuf  UHmutraiiiuinnuuuiimuimiiniung 


T>ESERET mOK 
COMPANT 


44  E.  SOUTH  TEMPLE  ST. 


We  can  supply  you  with 


BOOKS 


For  all  Departments  of  Sunday  School  Work. 

Young  Men  and  Young  Ladies'  M.  L  Associa- 
tions, including  Manuals  and  the  New  Read- 
ing Course. 

Text  Books  for  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  Quorums'  study. 

Church  School  and  Seminary  Text  Books  and 
Books  of  Reference. 

Primary  Association,  Stories  to  tell  Children, 
Short  Stories,  Dialogues,  Recitations,  Speak- 
ers and  Music  Books. 

Books  for  every  day  in  the  year,  especially  for 
Winter  reading — Immense  Lines,  new  and  at- 
tractive. 


^.liillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllM 


j  Three  New  and  Valuable  Church  Works  | 

ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH  HISTORY 

BY  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  §§ 

8  Of  the  Councl  of  the  Twelve  and  Church  Historian  g 

A  History  of  the  Church  from  the  birth  of  the  Prophet  to  the  j 

1    present  time,  in  ONE  LARGE  VOLUME  of  700  pages,  suitably  | 

§     illustrated  with  portraits  of  the  leaders,  early  scenes  and  docu-  g 

jj    incuts  of  historical  value,  and  original  maps,  showing  the  travels  J 

S    of  the  Church  from  its  organization  to  its  establishment  in  the  g 

B     mountains;  also  the.  route  of  the  famous  Mormon  Battalion  to  the  g 

f§     Pacific  Coast.  jj 

In  addition  to  the  material  rise  and  progress  of  the  Church,  g 

3     this  interesting  work  treats  upon  essentials  in  doctrine,  Priesthood,  j 

1     Authority;  the  development  of  the  leading  teachings  in  this  dis-  g 

ps     pensation,  temple  work,  etc.  g 

|  This  book  is  adopted  as  a  text  for  the  study  of  the  Melchizedek  g 

I     Priesthood  and  for  the  Priests  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 

Containing,  as  it  does,  so  much  of  interest  and  value  in  one  g 

1  \  olume,  it  should  be  found  in  every  home  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  J 
§j     and  in  every  Church  and  Public  Library. 

It  is  well  printed  and  handsomely  bound,  and  will  be  sold  at  g 
j§     the  special  low  price  of  $1.50. 

Ready  for  delivery  on  the  first  of  the  year. 

SATURDAY  NIGHT  THOUGHTS 

H     A  Series  of  Dissertations  on  Spiritual,  Historical  and  Philosophical  Themes.  g 

BY  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 
M  Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  book  is  designated  for  use  in  L.  D.  S.  schools  and  sem-  j 

H     iaaries,  but  as  the  Themes  in  this  work  are  calculated  to  stim-  g 

1     viate  study  and  deep  reflection  of  Gospel  truths,  it  will  be  prized  g 

3     by  the  thoughtful  reader  everywhere.    Handsomely  bound  in  g 

I  cloth,  $1.50. 

|  Prophecies  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Their  Fulfillment  j 

By  NEPHI  LOWELL  MORRIS 

Was  Joseph  Smith  a  Prophet?    What  answers  come  from  the  century  that  g 

S      has  roiled  by  since  he  beheld  his  first  vision?    Have  the  Latter-day  Saints  g 

II  misplaced  faith  in  him?  After  the  progress  of  a  hundred  years,  what  has  g 
g     Time  done  with  his  claims  to  the  title  of  a  Prophet?  g 

In  order  to  make  plain  the  outcome  of  Time  the  author  has  dug  up  old  || 

11  and  forgotten  manuscripts  and  prints  which  he  lays  before  the  readers,  with  g 
H     photographic  reproductions  of  the  originals.   Price,  $1.25. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

1     444648  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE  SALT  LAKE  CITY  g 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiM 


