♦ » ♦  ♦  4- f  +  + ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ 

Rllf  !iiSili|fil  w 

SEVENTY-FIFTH  SEMI-ANNUAL  | 

CONFERENCE  j 

f^fe^^C' OF  THE  \-     >-f'  f^V /A 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  | 
Latter-day  Saints  | 


♦ 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  October  6th,  7th 
and  9th,  1904,  with  a  full  Report 
of  the  Discourses. 


ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  OF 
THE  DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHCOL  UNION. 


THE  DESERET  NEWS 
1904 


Hf++4^+4^4^+f +4.+++^  ♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ 


DESERET  NEWS 

BOOK  STORE 


Leading  Book  Concern  of  the  State. 

Standard  and  Miscellaneous  Books,  Histories, 
Biographies,  Late  Popular  Fiction, 
Etc.,  Etc.    All  of  the  Church 
and  Home  Publications. 
Send  for  Free  Cata- 
logue and  Price 
List. 


Deseret  News  Building, 

6  MAIN  STREET,  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


General  Conference 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Seventy-fifth  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.m. 
on  Thursday,  October  6,  1904,  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  presiding. 

THE  PROCEEDINGS. 

There  were  present  of  the  General 
authorities:  Of  the  First  Presidency, 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  John  R.  Winder  and 
Anthon  H.  Lund.  Of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles;  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
John  Henry  Smith,  Rugger  Clawson. 
Hyrum  M.  Smith,  George  A.  Smith  and 
Charles  W.  Penrose. Presiding  Patriarch 
John  Smith.  First  seven  presidents  of 
Seventies:  Seymour  B.  Young,  Brig- 
ham  H.  Roberts,  George  Reynolds,  J. 
Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells  and 
Joseph  W.  McMurrin.  Of  the  presiding 
Bishopric:  Robert  T.  Burton  and  Qr- 
rin  P.  Miller.  There  were  also  many 
presidents  o£  stakes,  their  counselors, 
presidents  of  missions  and  other  promi- 
nent men  of  the  Priesthood. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Come  let  us  anew  our  journey  pursue, 
Roll  round  with  the  year. 
And  never  stand  still  till  the  Master 
appear, 

His  adorable  will,  let  "us  gladly  fulfill. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Patriarch  Angus  M.  Cannon. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 
Sweetly  may  the  blessed  Spirit, 


On  each  faithful  bosom  shine; 

May  we  every  grace  inherit, 

Lord  we  seek  a  boon  divine. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

(Opening  Address.) 

General  prosperity  in  settlements  of  the 
Latt-  r-day  tSnlnts— Hefererjce  to  the ir  Spir- 
itual Con  ition— Organization  of  the  Priest- 
hood and  i  hi  ir  duties— Rulir  g  object  if 
the  church  the  saltation  of  Mankind. 

I  am  happy  in  the  privilege  that  I 
enjoy  of  being  present  at  the  opening  of 
this,  the  seventy-fifth  semi-annual 
conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  am 
pleased  to  see  the  number  of  brethren 
and  sisters  who  are  present.  We  realize 
the  difficulty  in  the  way  of  many  of  the 
people  attending  conference  on  a  week- 
day like  this,  as  they  are  compelled  to 
labor;  business  is  in  full  operation,  not 
only  in  this  city  and  county,  but  in  eve- 
ry other  part  of  the  country,  and  many 
are  busy  attending  to  secular  duties, 
which  makes  it  difficult  for  them  to 
leave  their  homes  to  attend  conference 
on  the  week  days. 

It  is  gratifying,  however,  to  see  the 
number  who  are  here  today  at  the  open- 
ing meeting  of  our  conference,  and  I 
congratulate  you,  my  brethren  and  sis-  ' 
ters,  upon  being  present,  and  upon  the 
blessings,  both  temporal  and  spiritual, 
that  have  been  poured  out  upon  the 
people  since  our  last  conference.  Taken 
as  a  whole,  the  season  has  been  a  pros- 
perous one  throughout  the  land,  though 
some  localities  have  suffered  more  or 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


less.  The  forepart  of  our  season  was 
seriously  injured  by  drouth,  and  many 
people  in  the  southern  part  of  this  state 
and  in  Arizona,  New  Mexico,  and  in 
old  Mexico  especially,  as  also  in  our 
colonies  in  Canada,  have  suffered  seri- 
ously because  of  the  protracted  drouth 
that  has  been  upon  the  land.  But  the 
prospect  is  that  the  long  continued  spell 
of  drouth  has  been  broken  by  copious 
rains  that  have  descended  upon  the 
land,  making  the  fields  and  the  plains 
and  the  mountains  luxuriant  with  the 
growth  of  herbs  and  grasses  for  the 
sustenance  of  the  flocks  and  herds  of 
the  people,  and  also  for  the  supply  of 
abundant  water  for  irrigation  purposes 
on  their  farms.  Taking  a  retrospect  of 
the  whole  condition,  throughout  the 
length  and  breadth  of  the  land,  we  feel 
that  it  is  favorable  and  that  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  and  His  merciful  hand 
over  all  the  interests  of  the  people  have 
been  visible,  and  we  know  that  we  are 
indebted  greatly  to  His  mercy  and  kind- 
ness for  the  favors  and  blessings  that 
have  been  bestowed  upon  us. 

1  trust  that  the  spiritual  condition 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  has  continued 
to  be  as  good  as  the  temporal  condi- 
tions have  been,  and  that  we  are  pro- 
gressing and  growing  in  the  knowledge 
of  the  truth  and  in  faithfulness  before 
the  Lord  in  keeping  His  commandments 
and  His  laws  as  much  as  He  has  pros- 
pered us  temporally;  for  after  all  the 
great  desideratum  is  the  faithfulness  of 
the  people  to  the  covenants  that  they 
have  made  with  the  Lord  and  with  each 
other  in  righteousness. 

Reflec  ting  over  the  condition  of  the 
Church  at  the  present  time,  since  I  have 
been  sitting  here,  I  have  jotted  down  a 
few  Utile  items  that  I  wish  to  refer  to 
briefly.  T  find  that  we  have  now  in  the 
United  States,  Canada  and  Mexico  55 
organized  stakes  of  Zion.  As  a  matter 
•of  course,  therefore,  there  are  55  pre- 
siding officers  over  these  various  stakes, 
and  110  counselors  to  the  presidents  of 
stakes.  In  each  of  these  stakes,  is  an 
organized  High  Council,  consisting  of 
12  High  Priests  which  aggregates  660 
High  Councilors  in  the  Church  today 
as  it  is  organized,  who  possess  the  au- 


thority of  the  Holy  Priesthood  to  min- 
ister for  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of 
men,  and  who  sit  as  judges,  with  the 
presidents  of  stakes  and  their  counsel- 
ors, in  all  the  affairs  of  the  Church,  and 
who  are  called  upon  and  are  expected 
to  be  exemplars  before  the  people,  set- 
ting before  them  examples  that  are 
worthy  of  imitation  and  of  emulation 
— fathers  indeed  to  the  people  and  judg- 
es of  righteousness  in  their  midst. 
This,  of  course,  constitutes  quite  an 
army  of  official  workers — men  who  are 
expected  to  be  instant  in  season  and 
out  of  season:  men  upon  whom  rests 
great  responsibility;  wise  counselors, 
assisting  the  presidencies  of  the  various 
stakes  to  regulate  the  affairs  of  their 
churches  and  to  set  in  order  the  houses 
of  the  Saints  and  the  stake  organiza- 
tions throughout  the  Church. 

In  connection  with  the  55  organized 
stakes  of  Zion  we  have  in  the  neigh- 
borhood of  20  different  organized  mis- 
sions throughout  the  world,  presided 
over  by  presidents  and  counselors,  and 
these  missions  are  supplied  with  El- 
ders and  Seventies  that  are  sent  out  to 
preach  the  Gospel,  numbering  at  the 
present  time  in  the  neighborhood  of 
1,500  Elders.  Of  course  these  Elders 
are  not  only  traveling  throughout  the 
United  States,  but  throughout  Europe, 
in  the  islands  of  the  sea  and  in  New 
Zealand  and  Australia;  also  in  the 
Holy  Land,  where  nve  have  an  organ- 
ized mission  and  Elders  are  there 
preaching  the  Gospel  to  those  people. 

I  am  informed  also  that  we  have 
626 'organized  wards.  Of  course,  these 
organizations  vary  from  time  to  time; 
that  is,  they  frequently  increase,  and 
occasionally  a  ward  is  disorganized,  be- 
ing joined  with  another  ward,  making 
two  into  one.  Over  these  wards  there 
are  626  Bishops  presiding,  and  1,252 
Bishops'  counselors,  who  are  a  mighty- 
power  in  the  midst  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
officers  of  these  organizations  are  the 
officers  of  the  Church  who  come  in  Im- 
mediate contact  with  the  people  and 
who  are  in  direct  intercourse  "with 
them.  It  is  expected  that  the  Bishop 
of  a  ward  with  his  counselors  will  un- 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


3 


•derstand  the  necessities  of  every  mem- 
ber of  his  ward.  Then  they  have  as  as- 
sistants and  helpers  a  large  corps  of  El- 
ders, and  Priests,  Teachers  and  Dea- 
cons of  the  Lesser  Priesthood,  who  ren- 
der assistance  to  them  in  the  temporal 
as  well  as  the  spiritual  affairs  of  the 
Church.  It  devolves  upon  the  Bishopric 
of  the  ward  to  look  after  the  poor,  to 
minister  unto  the  sick  and  the  afflicted 
and  to  see  that  there  is  no  want  nor 
suffering  among  the  people  in  these  or- 
ganized divisions  of  the  Church.  It  is 
also  the  duty  of  these  presiding  officers 
in  the  Church  to  look  after  the  spiritual 
welfare  of  the  people,  to  see  that  they 
are  living  moral,  pure  and  upright  lives, 
that  they  are  faithful  in  the  discharge 
of  their  duties  as  Latter-day  Saints, 
that  they  are  honest  in  their  dealings 
with  one  another,  and  with  all  the 
world.  It  is  their  business  to  see  that 
spiritual  light  exists  in  their  hearts, 
and  that  the  people  under  their  presi- 
dency and  direction  are  living  the  lives 
of  Saints,  as  far  as  it  is  possible  for 
men  and  women,  in  the  mortal  body, 
beset  by  the  weaknesses  and  imperfec- 
tions of  mankind,  can  be  Saints.  Great 
responsibility  rests  upon  these,  and  we 
have  at  work  in  the  Church,  in  this 
relation,  a  vast  corps  of  efficient  men 
who  are  laboring  diligently  for  the  wel- 
fare of  mankind.  And  all  these  labor 
without  salaries.  They  are  not  paid 
officers.  It  is  true  that  they  receive  as- 
sistance from  time  to  time,  as  they  may 
need,  in  a  small  way,  but  not  one  ob- 
tains what  the  world  would  esteem  as 
a  salary,  nor  can  they  be  called  paid 
officers  of  the  Church. 

We  have  also  in  the  Church  today,  I 
am  Informed,  146  quorums  of  Seventy. 
These  constitute  a  body  of  Elders  of 
somewhere  in  the  neighborhood  of  10,000 
men,  whose  special  duty  it  is  to  respond 
to  the  call  of  the  Apostles  to  preach 
the  Gospel,  without  purse  or  scrip,  to 
all  the  nations  of  the  earth.  They  are 
minute  men.  It  is  expected  that  they 
will  be  ready,  whenever  they  are  called, 
to  go  out  in  the  world,  or  to  go  out  to 
the  various  organizations  of  the  Church 
to  fulfill  missions  and  to  perform  such 
duties  as  shall  be  required  of  them,  in 
order  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  the 


work  of  the  ministry  may  be  upheld 
and  sustained  and  carried  on  in  the 
Church  and  throughout  the  world. 
These  councils  or  quorums  of  Seventy 
are  not  alway  full,  a  full  council  being 
70  Elders.  But  there  are  approximate- 
ly 10,000  Elders  who  now  hold  that  posi- 
tion in  the  Church.  They  are  called  to 
an  apostolic  calling.  They  are  required 
to  be  special  witnesses  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  It  is  expected  of  this  body 
of  men  that  they  will  have  burning  In 
their  souls  the  testimony  of  Jesus 
Christ,  which  is  the  spirit  of  prophecy; 
that  they  will  be  full  of  light  and  of  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth;  that  they  will 
be  enthusiastic  in  their  calling,  and  in 
the  cause  of  Zion,  and  that  they  will 
be  ready  at  any  moment,  when  re- 
quired, to  go  out  into  the  world,  op 
anywhere  throughout  the  Church  and 
bear  testimony  of  the  truth,  preach 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  set  ex- 
amples before  the  world  of  purity,  love, 
honesty,  uprightness  and  integrity  to 
the  truth. 

In  addition  to  these  organizations 
we  have  in  each  stake  of  Zion  an  or- 
ganization called  the  High  Priests' 
quorum,  to  which  all  High  Priests  of 
the  Church  belong,  including  the  pres- 
idency and  high  councilors  of  the  stake, 
and  also  the  Bishops  and  their  counsel- 
ors, all  the  Patriarchs  and  all  others 
who  have  been  ordained  to  the  office  of 
High  Priest  in  the  Church,  which  office 
is  the  office  of  presidency  in  the  Mel- 
chisedek  Priesthood,  not  that  every 
man  who  holds  the  office  of  High  Priest 
is  a  president.  Only  he  who  is  called, 
appointed  and  set  apart  to  preside 
among  the  High  Priests  holds  the  pre- 
siding authority  and  office.  But  it  is 
the  duty  of  these  quorums  of  High 
Priests  to  act  in  their  calling;  not  to 
sit  idly  down  and  be  indifferent  to  the 
interests  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  nor  indifferent  to 
the  saving  of  the  souls  of  men.  It  is  ex- 
pected that  this  quorum  of  Priesthood 
in  the  various  stakes  of  Zion  will  look 
after  all  the  interests  of  the  stake;  that 
is.  that  they  will  look  after  the  moral 
condition  of  the  people;  that  they  will 
teach  righteousness;  that  they  will  see 
that  those  who  are  acting  in  presiding 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


authority  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  are  up- 
right, honest,  pure  and  humble  men, 
and  fit  for  the  positions  in  which  they 
are  called  to  act.  Thus  this  council  of 
the  Priesthood  constitutes  a  council  of 
power  and  influence  in  the  Church. 

"Then  we  have  the  Elders'  organiza- 
tions. A  council  or  quorum  of  Elders 
is  composed  of  96  Elders.  There  may  be 
a  number  of  councils  or  quorums  of  El- 
ders in  each  stake.  I  am  not  prepared 
to  state  how  many  Elders  we  have  in 
the  Church;  but  they  are  very  numer- 
ous. It  is  the  duty  of  this  body  of  men 
to  be  standing  ministers  at  home;  to 
be  ready  at  the  call  of  the  presiding  of- 
ficers of  the  Church  and  the  stakes,  to 
labor  in  the  ministry  at  home,  and  to 
officiate  in  any  calling  that  may  be  re- 
quired of  them,  whether  it  be  to  work 
in  the  temples,  or  to  labor  in  the  minis- 
try at  home,  or  whether  it  be  to  go  out 
into  the  world,  along  with  the  Seven- 
ties, to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  world. 

"We  have  a  number  of  Patriarchs  in 
the  Church,  whose  duty  it  is  to  bestow 
blessings  upon  the  heads  of  those  who 
seek  blessings  at  their  hands.  They  are 
fathers.  They  hold  the  evangelical  of- 
fice in  the  Church.  It  is  their  business 
and  right  to  bestow  blessings  upon  the 
people,  to  make  promises  unto  them  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord,  as  it  may  be  giv- 
en them  by  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  to  comfort  them  in  the  hours  of 
sorrow  and  trouble,  to  strengthen  their 
faith  by  the  promises  that  shall  be 
made  to  them  through  the  Spirit  of  Goil, 
and  to  be  fathers  indeed  of  the  people, 
leading  them  into  all  truth. 

"Then  we  have  the  Lesser  Priesthood, 
which  attends  to  the  different  tempo- 
ral matters  of  the  Church,  consisting 
of  Priests,  Teachers  and  Deacons,  who 
labor  under  the  direction  of  the  Bishop- 
ric in  the  various  wards  in  which  they 
dwell,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for 
the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ,  the 
unifying  of  the  people  and  bringing 
them  up  to  the  standard  of  righteous- 
ness that  they  should  reach  in  the  flesh, 
according  to  the  light  they  possess  and 
the  ability  and  talent  which  the  Lord 
has  given  them. 

"This,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  a 


very  brief  outline  of  the  organization 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  It  has  been  organized 
by  the  wisdom  of  the  Almighty,  and 
not  by  the  wisdom  of  man.  It  has  been 
organized  to  accomplish  the  purposes 
that  the  Lord  has  in  view  to  be  accom- 
plished by  it.  The  people  are  organized 
that  they  may  be  taught  righteousness; 
that  they  may  be  faithful  before  the 
Lord  in  keeping  the  covenants  that 
they  have  made  with  Him  in  righteous- 
ness. Among  these  covenants  are  that 
they  will  cease  from  sin  and  from  all 
unrighteousness;  that  they  will  work 
righteousness  in  their  lives;  that  they 
will  abstain  from  the  use  of  intoxicants, 
from  the  use  of  strong  drinks  of  every 
description,  from  the  use  of  tobacco, 
from  every  vile  thing,  and  from  ex- 
tremes in  every  phase  of  life;  that  they 
will  not  take  the  name  of  God  in  vain: 
that  they  will  not  bear  false  witness 
against  their  neighbor;  that  they  will 
seek  to  love  their  neighbors  as  them- 
selves; to  carry  out  the  golden  rule  of 
the  Lord.  'Do  unto  others  as  they  would 
that  others  should  do  unto  them.'  These 
principles  are  involved  in  the  covenants 
that  the  people  have  made  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  it  is  expected  that  these 
officers  and  presiding  authorities  in  the 
Church,  whom  I  have  cursorily  named, 
shall  see  to  it  that  the  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  will  keep  these  covenants  that 
they  have  made  with  the  Lord,  ami  that 
they  will  observe  these  principles  and 
adapt  them  to  their  lives  and  carry 
them  out,  that  they  may  be  indeed  the 
salt  of  the  earth;  not  salt  that  has  lost 
its  savor  and  is  good  for  nothing  but  to 
be  cast  out  and  trodden  under  the  foot 
of  men,  but  salt  that  has  its  savor  and 
that  is  wholesome:  that  the  people  of 
God  may  be  a  light  unto  this  genera- 
tion and  unto  the  world;  that  men  may 
see  your  good  works  and  glorify 
your  Father  which  is  in  heaven;  and 
that  notwithstanding  enemies,  who  are 
filled  with  the  spirit  of  persecution,  and 
who  say  all  manner  of  false  things 
against  the  Latter-day  Saints,  those 
who  have  entered  into  the  covenant  of 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


5 


the  Gospel  will  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord,  will  obey  the  dic- 
tates of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  unto 
them,  will  work  righteousness  in  the 
earth,  and  will  go  right  on  in  the  path 
that  Almighty  God  has  marked  out  for 
them  to  pursue,  fulfilling  and  accom- 
plishing His  will  and  His  purposes  con- 
cerning them  in  the  latter  day.  It  does 
not  make  any  difference  to  us  what  the 
world  says  about  us,  we  know  what 
■our  mission  is,  and  we  propose  to  fulfill 
that  mission  by  the  help  of  Almighty 
God,  and  that  mission  is  to  save  men 
from  the  errors  of  the  world,  from 
darkness,  from  unbelief  in  the  true  and 
living  God  and  in  the  redeeming  sacri- 
fice of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  men 
may  not  fall  into  infidelity,  that  they 
may  not  abandon  the  truth  nor  the 
paths  of  righteousness  God  has  marked 
out  for  them  to  walk  in.  That  is  our 
mission.  It  is  to  save  men  from  error, 
from  wickedness  and  from  apostatizing 
from  truth  and  righteousness,  and  that 
men  might  believe  in  the  true  and  liv- 
ing God,  and  in  Jesus  Christ  whom  he 
has  sent  into  the  world,  whom  to  know 
is  life  eternal.  Our  mission  is  to  save 
men  from  the  powers  of  darkness  and 
from  the  snares  and  pitfalls  of  Satan 
wherein  thev  are  tempted  from  paths 
of  truth  to  commit  sin,  and  bring  deg- 
radation, sorrow  and  shame  upon 
themselves  by  transgressing  the  laws 
of  God  and  the  laws  of  life. 

"We  are  not  ashamed  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  which  we  have  re- 
ceived; for  we  know  that  it  is  the  pow- 
er of  God  unto  salvation  unto  all  that 
believe  and  receive  it  in  their  hearts 
and  live  it  according  to  the  will  and 
purpose  of  God.  Now,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  these  principles. 
I  praise  God  with  all  my  soul  that  He 
has  restored  the  Priesthood.  And 
what  is  the  Priesthood?  It  is  nothing 
more  nor  less  than  the  power  of  God 
delegated  to  man  by  which  man  can 
act  in  the  earth  for  the  salvation  of  the 
human  family,  in  the  name  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son  and  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  act  legitimately;  not  as- 
suming that  authority,  not  borrowing 


it  from  generations  that  are  dead  and 
gone,  but  authoritv  that  has  been  given 
in  this  day  in  which  we  live  by  minis- 
tering angels  and  spirits  from  above, 
direct  from  the  presence  of  Almighty 
God,  who  have  come  to  the  earth  in  our 
day  and  restored  the  Priesthood  to  the 
children  of  men,  by  which  they  may 
baptize  for  the  remission  of  sins  and 
lay  on  hands  for  the  reception  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  by  which  they  can  re- 
mit sin,  with  the  sanction  and  blessing 
of  Almighty  God.  It  is  the  same  power 
and  Priesthood  that  was  committed  to 
the  disciples  of  Christ  while  He  was 
upon  the  earth;  that  whatsoever  they 
should  bind  on  earth  should  be  bound 
in  heaven,  and  whatsoever  they  should 
loose  on  earth  should  be  loosed  in 
heaven,  and  whomsoever  they  should 
bless  should  be  blessed,  and  if  they 
cursed,  in  the  spirit  of  righteousness 
and  meekness  before  God,  God  would 
confirm  that  curse.  But  men  are  not 
called  upon  to  curse  mankind;  that  is 
not  our  mission;  it  is  our  mission  to 
preach  righteousness  to  them.  It  is  our 
business  to  love  and  to  bless  men,  and 
to  redeem  them  from  the  fall  and  from 
the  wickedness  of  the  world.  This  is 
our  mission  and  our  special  calling. 
God  will  curse  and  will  exercise  His 
judgment  in  those  matters.  Vengeance 
is  mine,  saith  the  Lord,  and  I  will  re- 
pay. We  are  perfectly  willing  to  leave 
vengeance  in  the  hands  of  God  and  let 
Him  judge  between  us  and  our  enemies 
and  let  Him  reward  them  according  to 
His  own  wisdom  and  mercy. 

"Now,  may  the  Lord  bless  us  through- 
out this  conference.  I  can  feel  that  I 
am  doing  injury  to  my  voice  in  contin- 
uing to  speak.  I  have  been  suffering 
for  the  past  two  or  three  weeks  with  a 
very  severe  cold,  which  has  greatly  af- 
fected my  voice,  and  I  am  only  just  re- 
covering from  it.  But  I  am  pleased 
that  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  speak- 
ing a  few  words  to  you  at  the  opening 
of  this  conference.  I  pray  God  to  bless 
the  people  that  shall  come  here,  and 
pour  out  His  spirit  upon  them,  to  make 
their  hearts  warm  up  and  burn  with 
affection  toward  Him  for  His  abundant 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


mercies  unto  them,  and  with  love  for 
one  another  and  for  all  mankind:  for  it 
is  our  mission  to  save  the  world  from 
sin  and  darkness  and  to  lead  all  to  a 
knowledge  of  God  and  His  truth. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  consummate 
the  mission  He  has  given  unto  us,  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

The  Mountain  of  the  Lord's  house. 

PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 

Object  of  Missionary  Work— Those  \vh  labor 
in  it  niieting  With  success— liedeuiptiou  of 
the  Dead. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  very 
thankful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  that 
He  has  spared  my  life  to  assemble  once 
more  with  you  in  conference.  I  hav<" 
listened  with  a  great  deal  of  pleasure 
to  the  remarks  that  have  been  made 
by  President  Smith.  What  a  vast  body 
of  men  there  is  in  this  Church!  and 
what  is  their  object  in  life?  I  under- 
stand it  to  be  the  salvation  of  the  hu- 
man family.  While  President  Smith  was 
speaking,  I  looked  around  here  and  I 
saw  a  large  number  of  presidents  of 
missions.  Our  Elders  go  out  into  the 
world,  leaving  their  homes  and  families, 
and  travel  without  purse  or  scrip,  and 
their  object  is  to  bring  salvation  to  the 
honest  in  heart.  These  presidents  of 
missions  send  the  Elders  from  house  to 
house,  bearing  the  message  of  salvation 
and  the  printed  word  to  all  who  will 
receive  it.  In  reflecting  upon  this,  I 
thought  how  strange  it  is  that  these 
missionaries,  going  forth  as  they  do 
with  the  message  of  peace,  offering  the 
people  a  book  or  a  tract  containing  the 
word  of  God,  should  be  treated  in  the 
way  they  are.  Sometimes  the  doors  are 
closed  in  their  faces,  and  the  people 
curtly  tell  them  that  they  will  not 
receive  their  books  or  tracts;  and  in 
many  cases  the  Elders  are  treated  with 
contempt,  though  this  is  not  always  the 
case.  Supposing  the  minister  of  any 
denomination  was  to  present  himself 
at  my  house  and  respectfully  offer  me 
a  book  setting  forth  his  religious  views. 
I  was  wondering  if  I  would  slam  the 
door  in  his  face  and  treat  him  with 


contempt.  No.  I  would  at  least  be  re- 
spectful and  say  that  I  did  not  wish  to 
receive  it.  You,  my  brethren,  who  are 
abroad  in  the  world,  know  that  you 
have  to  meet  these  conditions;  but  your 
object  is.  as  we  all  know,  to  promote 
peace  and  salvation  wherever  you  go. 
That  is  your  mission,  and  I  rejoice  to 
know  that  you  are  very  successful  in 
thai  mission,  and  that  many  are  receiv- 
ing your  message  and  obeying  the  Gos- 
pel. 

We  rejoice  that  the  work  of  the  Lord 
is  growing  and  increasing,  and  we  testi- 
fy that  its  mission  will  be  prospered 
in  the  earth.  This  is  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  He  is  at  the  helm,  and  He  will 
certainly  take  care  of  it.  It  is  our  duty, 
of  course,  to  do  the  very  best  we  can, 
and  as  the  President  has  said,  we 
should  so  order  our  lives  as  to  be  above 
reproach.  We  should  not  only  preach 
the  Gospel  by  precept,  but  we  should 
do  so  by  our  acts.  Seeing  that  we  are 
devoting  our  lives  to  this  cause,  let  our 
lives  be  such  that  all  men  who  come  in 
contact  with  us  may  see  our  good 
works. 

In  addition  to  all  that  has  been  done 
in  the  missionary  fields,  there  are  other 
places  where  the  great  work  of  salvation 
is  being  carried  on.  Thousands  and  tens 
of  thousands  are  being  added  to  the 
Church  annually  in  the  temples  of  the 
Lord.  Those  who',  during  their  life- 
time, did  not  have  the  opportunity  that 
we  have  had  of  receiving  the  Gospel, 
are  now  receiving  the  benefits  of  sal- 
vation. This  work  is  growing  and  mul- 
tiplying in  the  temples,  as  well  as  the 
work  abroad.  The  object  of  those  who 
work  in  the  temples  is  also  to  brins 
salvation  to  the  fullest  extent,  both  to 
the  living  and  the  dead.  Notwithstand- 
ing all  that  may  be  said  in  relation  to 
the  work  in  the  temple,  you  know,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  when  you  go 
to  the  house  of  the  Lord  and  receive  the 
ordinances  there  administered,  they  are 
all  calculated  to  make  you  better  men 
and  women,  better  fathers  and  moth- 
ers; and  everything  that  is  done  In 
those  houses  is  for  salvation.  The  tes- 
timony of  all  who  go  there  is  that  it 
makes  them  feel  better  prepared  to  bat- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


7 


tie  with  life.  They  become  better 
fathers  and  mothers,  and  better  citi- 
zens of  the  United  States  or  of  any 
other  country.  I  can  testify  to  this, 
and  thousands  that  are  before  me,  who 
have  been  through  the  house  of  the 
Lord  could  bear  me  out  in  this  testi- 
mony, if  called  upon.  There  is  noth- 
ing done  there  in  any  manner  that  has 
a  tendency  in  the  least  to  harm  any 
individual,  but  everything  that  is  done 
is  for  the  best  good  and  salvation  of 
the  people. 

I  rejoice  in  these  things,  my  brethren 
and  sisters.  I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord 
that  He  has  given  me  a  testimony  of 
the  truth  of  this  Gospel.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and 
that  he  laid  the  foundation  for  this 
great  work.  He  it  was  that  laid  the 
foundation  of  all  these  organizations 
that  we  have  heard  about  this  morning, 
and  this  work  will  increase  and  multi- 
ply upon  the  earth.  May  the  Lord 
help  us  all  to  be  faithful  and  true  al- 
ways to  the  covenants  that  we  have 
made  with  the  Lord,  that  we  may  keep 
them  faithfully  and  never  do  anything 
that  would  bring  His  displeasure  upon 
us.  God  grant  it  to  all  of  us.  Again 
I  express  my  thanks  and  praise  the 
name  of  my  Heavenly  Father  for  His 
continued  mercies  and  goodness  unto 
me,  and  for  extending  my  life  until  I  am 
now  nearly  eighty-three  years  of  age. 
I  thank  the  Lord  for  all  these  blessings, 
and  dedicate  myself  unto  Him  with  a 
determination  to  serve  Him  as  long  as 
I  live  upon  the  earth.  I  ask  Him  for 
His  blessing  upon  you  all,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT.  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

The  Char«c1er  and  Extent  of  the  Priesthood 
—Beneficial  Results  of  Fast  Offer!  gs— 
Uns-  ltishness  of  M  sslonaries  to  the  World 
— Intellectual  aud  Religious  development 
of  the  Children. 

While  our  President  was  addressing 
us  these  words  came  into  my  mind: 

"But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a 
royal  Priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a  pe- 
culiar people;  that  ye  should  shew  forth 
the  praises  of  Him  who  hath  called  you 
out  of  darkness  into  His  marvelous 
light." 


It  occurred  to  me  that  the  Apostle  Pe- 
ter, in  addressing  the  Saints  formerly, 
looked  upon  a  people  who  were  simi- 
larly organized  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  he  called  them  "a  chosen 
generation,  a  royal  Priesthood,  an  holy 
nation."  Those  who  contemplate  the 
organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  will  be 
struck  with  the  number  who  hold  the 
Priesthood.  The  Priesthood  is  conferred 
upon  all  male  members  who  are  worthy 
to  receive  it.  This  is  a  great  blessing 
which  the  members  of  this  Church  en<- 
joy,  and  it  makes  them  a  peculiar  peo- 
ple, a  chosen  generation,  holding  the 
royal  Priesthood.  There  is  no  priest- 
ly caste  in  our  Church.  Contrary  to 
the  opinion  of  many,  such  a  thing  does 
not  exist  with  us,  unless  you  will  call 
the  whole  Church  a  priestly  caste,  be- 
cause all  participate  in  the  blessing* 
pertaining  to  the  Priesthood. 

There  are  in  the  Church  two  Priest- 
hoods— the  Aaronic  and  the  Melchise- 
dek.  The  Aaronic  Priesthood  is  the  les- 
ser, an  appendage  to  the  higher.  It 
embraces  the  offices  of  Deacons, 
Teachers  and  Priests.  Those  'who  hold 
these  offices  are  called  to  labor  amongst 
the  people,  to  teach  them,  to  serve 
them,  to  watch  over  them,  and  to  see 
that  there  is  no  hardness  of  heart  or 
ill  feelings  among  them.  We  call  our 
young  men  very  early  in  .life  to  bear 
the  Priesthood.  When  they  are  12  or  IS 
years  old  we  ordain  them  Deacons  or 
Teachers,  if  they  are  worthy.  We  givw 
them  something  to  do  in  the  Lord's 
house.  We  call  upon  them  to  look  after 
the  meeting-houses  and  to  visit  the 
Saints.  In  some  places  Deacons  look 
after  the  widows,  and  see  that  they  are 
furnished  with  fuel,  and  attend  to  the 
chopping  of  wood  for  them.  Being 
called  to  the  Priesthood,  they  feel  that 
these  services  are  honorary  ones.  They 
are  called  on  also  to  collect  fast-day 
offerings  from  the  people,  many  ot 
whom  may  not  have  ready  money  to 
give  unto  the  poor.  If  they  have  not 
the  cash  they  give  provisions  and  other 
things  which  they  can  spare,  and  which 
the  poor  need.  In  many  stakes  the 
Deacons  are  called  upon  to  perform 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


such  duties  as  these,  and  this  gives 
them  in  their  youth  a  love  for  doing 
good  and  for  helping  the  poor. 

Here  let  me  say,  in  this  connection, 
that  in  our  Church  a  custom  prevails 
Which  I  consider  a  beautiful  one.  It  is 
this:  The  Saints  are  called  upon  to 
remember  the  poor  when  they  fast. 
They  show  their  reverence  for  the  Lord 
In  fasting,  and  fit  themselves  better  to 
approach  Him  in  prayer,  showing  that 
they  can  overcome  the  strong  wants  of 
nature  by  abstaining  from  food  for  one, 
two,  or  three  meals.  Our  fast-day 
comes  on  the  first  Sunday  in  each 
month;  and  while  the  members  of  the 
Church  deny  themselves  on  that  day, 
they  are  asked  to  remember  the  poor, 
and  to  give  unto  them  at  least  the  val- 
ue of  the  meals  that  they  refrain  from 
taking.  If  this  be  done  conscientious- 
ly throughout  the  Church  there  is  no 
need  of  any  of  the  poor  suffering.  We 
have  not  a  great  amount  of  poor  any- 
how in  our  midst  outside  of  the  popu- 
lous centers.  In  some  of  the  stakes 
they  have  none  that  need  support.  The 
people  may  not  be  well-to-do,  they  may 
not  have  much  of  this  world's  goods, 
but  they  are  sufficiently  blessed  not  to 
need  any  support  from  others.  In  Salt 
Lake  and  the  larger  cities,  where  so 
many  people  gather  and  have  to  de- 
pend on  day's  labor,  we  have  quite  a 
number  to  support.  Now,  I  would  ad- 
monish the  Saints  living  in  stakes 
•where  they  are  not  called  upon  to  do 
much  towards  supporting  the  poor,  that 
they  do  not  slacken  their  efforts  to  col- 
lect fast-day  donations  or  to  contribute 
them,  for  it  is  a  duty  laid  upon  all  the 
members  of  the  Church  to  remember 
the  poor.  The  Lord  delights  in  those 
who  remember  the  poor.  And  so  the 
beautiful  custom  has  been  instituted 
In  our  midst  of  imparting  of  our  sub- 
stance to  the  poor,  to  make  the  poor 
glad,  on  the  day  that  has  been  set 
apart  as  a  day  of  fasting  and  praye*-. 
One  of  the  old  Church  fathers  writes 
that  in  early  days  it  was  the  custom 
among  the  Christians  when  they  fasted 
that  they  took  the  money  they  would 
have  had  to  expend  for  the  meals  which 
they  did  not  partake,  of,  and  gave  It 


unto  the  poor.  This  same  custom  has 
been  revived  in  our  Church.  I  do  not 
suppose,  however,  that  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  ever  read  anything  of 
this  kind,  but  he  was  inspired  to  in- 
stitute it  in  our  midst.  In  looking  over 
what  the  Saints  have  done  in  regard 
to  fast-day  donations,  I  think  there 
is  great  need  of  improvement,  and 
that  all  should  be  more  consciencious 
in  observing  the  fast-days  and  remem- 
bering the  poor.  When  we  do  this  to 
honor  the  Lord  and  to  keep  His  com- 
mandments, we  have  a  claim  upon  His 
blessings  and  He  will  not  forget  us. 

As  a  general  thing,  the  Saints  respond 
cheerfully  to  all  the  calls  that 
are  made  upon  them;  and  in  look- 
ing back  upon  our  history,  one  cannot 
help  seeing  that  they  have  been  called 
upon  to  make  many  sacrifices.  But 
take  the  men  in  our  midst  who  have 
made  the  greatest  sacrifices,  and  you 
will  generally  find  the  men  who  have 
been  the  most  greatly  blessed.  From 
the  beginning  of  the  Church  the  Lord 
has  called  upon  His  people  to  do  some- 
thing. 

Our  religion  is  one  in  which  we  are 
called  upon  to  show  our  faith  by  our 
works.  The  Latter-day  Saints  have 
shown  their  faith  this  way.  When  they 
are  called  upon  to  go  out  amongst  the 
nations  to  preach  the  gospel,  they  do 
not  ask  how  much  their  pay  will  be. 
but  they  at  once  commence  to  regulate 
their  affairs  so  that  they  can  betake 
themselves  to  their  mission-field  and 
perform  the  labor  required,  without 
any  remuneration.  They  feel  that  they 
owe  the  duty  to  the  world,  to  warn 
them  of  what  is  coming,  to  tell  them 
the  glorious  message  "that  God  Him- 
self has  revealed  in  our  day,  and  to 
declare  unto  men  that  there  is  an  op- 
portunity to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the 
Gospel  today  as  they  were  enjoyed 
formerly.  Therefore,  when  they  are 
called  upon  to  go  out  into  the  world 
they  almost  invariably  answer  that 
they  will  be  ready  to  go  at  the  time  ap- 
pointed. Thus  our  missionaries  go  to 
the  different  parts  of  the  earth,  and 
you  will  find  them  in  Europe,  in  Asia, 
in  Africa,  in  Australia  and  New  Zea- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


9 


land,  in  the  islands  of  the  sea,  and  on 
this  great  continent  of  ours.  Wherever 
the  call  is,   they  go,   trusting  in  the 
Lord  to  sustain  them,  and  to  give  them 
power  to  perform  their  mission.  Though 
they  have  not  studied  philosophy  and 
are  not  learned  in  the  systems  of  men. 
they  go  feeling  and  knowing  that  they 
have  the  truth,  and  they  are  desirous 
to  make  every  man  acquainted  with 
what  they  have  received.    This  they 
do  not  do  by  being  coerced  or  forced, 
but  by  their  own  free  will;  and  when 
they  return  from  their  missions  (which 
generally  last  from  two  to  four  years 
or  more)  they  are  ready  to  report  that 
the  time    spent    in    their  missionary 
fields  has  been  the  happiest  period  of 
their  lives.    When  their  work  is  com- 
pleted they  love    to    return    to  their 
homes,  because  they  love  their  families 
and  relations.   They  do  not  go  on  mis- 
sions because  they  like  to    be  away 
from  home,  or  because  they  love  to 
ramble  around  the  world,  but  they  go 
because  there  is  no  joy  so  great  as 
that  experienced  in  devoting  oneself 
entirely  to  the  cause  of  Christ.  And 
how  happy  they  are  to  find  those  who 
will  listen  to  their  words  and  receive 
them  with  honest  hearts!     They  feel 
then     that     the  Lord      is  reward- 
ing    them     for     their     labors  and 
for       the       sacrifice       they  have 
made   in     leaving    home    and  loved 
ones.  The  preposterous  idea  has  been 
set  forth  by  our  enemies  that  our  El- 
ders are  paid  so  much  for  every  con- 
vert they  make.    How  ridiculous  this 
sounds  to  us  here!    Nearly  every  man 
in  our  midst  has  been  away  upon  a 
mission.    He  knows  what  he  has  re- 
ceived— or  rather  what  he  has  not  re- 
ceived.  He  has  gone  with  means  which 
he  has  labored  for  with  his  own  hands, 
and  has  spent  the  same  for  the  up- 
building of  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  all 
the  pay  he  expects  to  receive  is  the  in- 
ner conviction  of  having  done  his  duty 
and  filled  the  call  which  the  Lord  has 
made  upon  him.    He  knows  that  the 
promises  are  unto  such  as  are  willing 
to   keep  the  commandementa  of  the 
Lord  and  labor  for  His  cause. 
I  stated  that  our  young  men  early 


receive  the  Priesthood.  Some  are  or- 
dained Teachers  and  Priests  and  as 
such  go  among  the  families  of  the 
Saints  to  labor  in  their  calling.  They 
are  generally  accompaniedi  by  an  older 
person.  The  families  gather  around 
ready  to  listen  to  the  teachings  of  these 
bearers  of  the  Priesthood,  and  the  time 
they  spend  in  the  homes  of  the  Saints 
is  devoted  to  talk  upon  the  topics  per- 
taining to  the  kingdom  of  God  and  to 
the  duties  of  the  members  of  the 
Church. 

Besides  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  we 
have  in  our  Church  the  Melchisedek 
Priesthood.  An  Elder  holds  this  Priest- 
hood. A  Seventy,  a  High  Priest,  an 
Apostle,  the  President  of  the  Church, 
all  hold  the  same  Priesthood.  There 
are  only  the  two  Priesthoods, 
but  there  are  different  offices 
in  the  same  Priesthood.  You 
heard  our  President  speak  this 
morning  concerning  the  organization 
of  the  Church,  stakes  and  wards,  and 
about  presidents  of  stakes  and  Bishops 
of  wards.  All  these  men  holding  the 
Priesthood,  have  been  placed  in  charge 
of  the  flock  of  Christ,  and  they  are 
watching  over  them.  As  a  general 
thing,  they  spend  all  the  time  they 
can  spare  ministering  for  the  good  of 
the  people.  In  most  cases  they  are 
men  of  business  and  under  the  neces- 
sity of  providing  for  their  own  famil- 
ies, but  they  take  what  time  they  can  to 
look  after  those  the  Lord  has  put  in 
their  charge. 

Such  are  the  Priesthoods,  and  such 
the  offices  therein.  Then  we  have  the 
auxiliary  organizations  in  the  Church. 
They  are  not  exactly  parts  of  the 
Priesthood,  but  auxiliary  thereunto. 
They  are  helps  in  government.  We 
commence  with  the  little  children  in  the 
Primary  association.  We  call  upon  good 
sisters  in  our  midst  to  take  these  in 
hand,  and  once  a  week  they  meet  with 
our  little  children  and  teach  them  con- 
cerning right  and  wrong,  and  concern- 
ing the  crucified  Savior;  they  inspire 
their  young  hearts  with  a  love  of  God. 
and  teach  them  to  sing  praises  unto 
Him.  This  organization  takes 
in       the       smallest     of     our  chil- 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


dren.  Then  when  they  get 
to  be  about  14  years  of  age  they  join 
the  Mutual  Improvement  association. 
There  they  meet  once  a  »week  and  take 
a  course  in  theology  and  other  neces- 
sary branches.  The  aim  of  this  organ- 
ization is  to  build  up  the  young  peo- 
ple, to  warn  them  of  the  pitfalls  in  the 
way  of  the  youth,  to  strengthen  them  in 
their  resolve  to  serve  God,  and  to  teach 
them  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  that 
they  may  have  a  foundation  for  their 
faith.  After  this  the  young  men  join 
the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood,  and  the 
young  women  join  the  Relief  societies, 
which  were  established  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  for  the  good  of  the  people.  The 
sisters  of  the  Relief  society  do  a  good 
work  in  our  midst.  We  have  the  so- 
cieties organized  in  every  ward  in  Zion 
and  in  the  branches  abroad.  They  gath- 
means  for  the  poor  and  they  look  after 
the  sick.  In  many  cases  3rou  will  find 
the  sisters  watching  night  and  day  at 
the  sick  bed.  Indeed  they  are,  as  the 
name  of  the  society  indicates,  persons 
of  another  organization  not  an  auxili- 
ary organizations  in  the  Church. 

Before  I  conclude,  I  want  to  speak 
of  another  organization  not  an  auxili- 
ary organization  of  the  Priesthood,  but 
an  organization  pertaining  to  the 
Church  school  system,  I  mean  the  re- 
ligion classes,  which  we  are  trying  to 
establish  in  our  midst.  This  meets  op- 
position, both  from  without  and,  I  am 
sorry  to  say,  from  within.  The  object 
of  these  classes  is  to  teach  our  chil- 
dren what  they  cannot  be  taught  in  the 
district  schools,  namely,  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel.  We  do  not  want  in  any 
way  to  interfere  with  the  rights  of  oui 
fellow  citizens  who  do  not  belong  to  oui 
Church.  We  do  not  want  to  force  any 
of  this  religion  class  work  upon  their 
children.  We  do  believe,  however,  that 
an  education  without  a  God  is  a  faulty 
one.  We  do  believe  that  children 
should  be  taught  morality  and  faith  in 
God.  But  as  the  laws  of  the  land  are, 
this  cannot  be  done  in  our  district 
schools.  We  must  keep  the  public 
schools  free  from  all  theological  doc- 
trines. No  one  need  to  fear  this  move- 
ment of  ours.    It  is  not  intended  for 


propaganda  amongst  those  who  are  not 
of  us.  But  'we  claim  the  right  to  teach 
our  own  children  what  we  want  them 
taught.  We  believe  that  there  is  a- 
great  necessity  of  teaching  them  mor- 
ality, principles  of  sound  conduct,  faith 
in  God,  and  doctrines  of  salvation.  The 
children  may  be  taught  the  secular 
branches  by  the  most  polished  teachers, 
but  if  they  are  not  taught  morality  and 
faith  their  education  will  be  deficient 
and  they  will  not  know  how  to  reach 
the  object  for  which  they  have  corns 
upon  the  earth.  We  like  our  children 
to  receive  a  good  education  and  to  be- 
come mentally  strong,  and  we  encour- 
age all  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  take- 
advantage  of  the  district  schools,  of 
the  high  schools  and  the  universities  for 
the  branches  that  are  taught  there,  but 
we  do  feel  that  our  children  need  more 
than  they  can  get  in  those  institutions, 
and  for  that  reason  we  have  estab- 
lished religion  classes.  Now.  we  have 
no  objections  to  our  friends  of  other 
denominations  establishing  classes  and 
teaching  their  children  the  principle* 
that  they  believe  in.  Our  Cathollo 
friends  set  us  a  good  example  in  this  re- 
spect. They  will  not  let  their  children 
be  neglected  in  religious  instruction. 
We  do  not  object  to  others  teaching 
their  children  so  long  as  they  do  not 
teach  our  children  what  we  do  not  want 
them  taught.  We  want  our  children 
to  receive  the  kind  of  instruction  that 
we  know  to  be  all-important  to  them. 
This  is  all  there  is  to  the  religion  class- 
es. We  are  not  attempting  to  mix 
church  and  state;  we  do  not  want  to 
intrude  our  religion  into  the  state 
schools;  but  *we  do  claim  the  right  to 
have  our  own  children  taught  in  the 
principles  that  we  believe;  and  for  this 
purpose  we  gather  them  together.  In 
places  where  there  are  but  few,  if  any, 
non-"Mormons"  we  may  hire  the 
schoolhouse  after  the  school  has  been 
dismissed;  but  we  particularly  urge 
those  in  charge  of  the  religion  classes 
not  to  interfere  with  the  children  of 
non-"Mormons."  I  want  to  say  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  do  not  underesti- 
mate the  importance  of  having  your 
children  taught  the  principles  of  the 


ELDER  DAVID  H.  CANNON. 


11 


Gospel  in  early  life.  We  have  church 
schools  established,  but  as  a  general 
thing-  the  children  do  not  go  there  until 
they  are  out  of  the  grades.  Now,  from 
seven  to  fourteen  years  of  age  is  the 
time  when  the  child's  mind  is  plastic, 
and  when  you  can  make  lasting  impres- 
sions upon  it.  We  do  not  want  that 
time  to  go  by  without  our  doing  some- 
thing for  the  spiritual  growth  of  the 
child;  we  want  to  teach  our  young 
children  faith  in  Christ,  and  have  them 
well  grounded  in  His  doctrines.  I  see  it 
is  time  to  dismiss  the  meeting.  May 
the  Lord  bless  you  all,  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
Lift  up  the  voice  in  singing. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Collins  Hakes, 
president  of  Maricopa  stake. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 
We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days. 
Prayer  by  Elder  Joseph  E.  Taylor. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 
Hark!  listen  to  the  trumpeters! 

They  sound  for  volunteers; 
On  Zion's  bright  and  flow'ry  mount 

Behold  the  officers. 

ELDER  DAVID  H.  CANNON, 
(President  of  St.  George  Temple) 

I  feel  honored  this  afternoon  in  hav- 
ing the  opportunity  of  appearing  before 
this  vast  assembly  to  represent  the 
labors  performed  in  the  first  temple 
erected  in  Utah — the  St.  George  Temple. 
The  labor  commenced  in  the  St.  George 
Temple  on  the  ninth  day  of  January, 
1877,  under  the  direction  of  our  late 
beloved  president,  Brigham  Young. 
President  Wilford  Woodruff  was  ap- 
pointed at  that  time  to  preside  over 
the  temple.  For  the  first  few  years 
the  work  performed  in  that  house  of  the 
Lord  was  very  great,  many  people 
flocking  from  the  northern  settlements 
to  attend  to  the  labor  necessary  for 
the  redemption  of  their  dead  kindred; 
but  as  the  temples  in  other  parts  of 
the  country  were  finished,  the  work  in 
the  St.  George  Temple  very  materially 
decreased,  until  we  had  very  few  in  at- 


tendance, so  few  in  fact  that  at  one 
time  it  was  thought  proper  to  close 
the  house  in  consequence  of  the  small 
amount  of  ordinance  work  that  was  be- 
ing performed.  This  was  in  the  time 
of  President  Woodruff's  presidency  over 
the  Church.  When  it  was  mooted, 
President  Woodruff  made  the  remark  to 
us  that  he  expected  to  keep  the  temple 
open  so  that  the  paople  might  have 
the  opportunity  of  entering  its  sacred 
precincts  and  laboring  for  the  redemp- 
tion of  their  kindred  dead,  and  if  they 
failed  to  avail  themselves  of  the  op- 
portunity then  the  responsibility  should 
be  upon  the  people  and  not  upon  him; 
for  it  was  the  Lord  that  nad  estab- 
lished the  work  with  which  we  are 
identified,  and  he  was  satisfied  that  it 
would  triumph.  The  work  in  the  St. 
George  Temple  has  been  increasing 
for  the  last  few  months,  and  I  believe 
there  is  an  awakening  among  the  peo- 
ple in  regard  to  this  great  duty.  Not- 
withstanding the  fact  that  Elijah  did 
come,  in  fulfillment  of  the  prediction 
of  Malachi,  wherein  he  said  that  before 
the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord 
Elijah  should  come  and  turn  the 
hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children  and 
the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fath- 
ers, lest  the  earth  be  smitten  with  a 
curse — I  say,  notwithstanding  the  fact 
that  Elijah  has  come,  and  to  a  very 
great  degree  the  hearts  of  the  fathers 
have  been  turned  to  the  children  and 
the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fath- 
ers, as  manifested  in  the  many  genea- 
logical societies  that  have  been  estab- 
lished in  the  earth  since  that  time,  be 
it  known  unto  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  before  the  appearance  of 
Elijah  in  the  Kirtland  Temple  there 
were  very  few  societies  of  that  char- 
acter and  very  little  genealogical  data 
that  had  been  compiled  in  form  in  order 
to  be  made  available  for  the  Latter-day 
Saints;  but  since  that  time  men  have 
been  moved  upon,  without  knowing 
what  power  it  was,  to  spend  means  in 
collecting  genealogical  records  and 
publishing  them  to  the  world,  and  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  been  able  to 
avail  themselves  of  the  information 
thus  afforded.    The  work  of  the  Lord 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


is  increasing,  and  as  it  increases  tem- 
ple work  will  increase  also. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you 
that  this  is  the  work  of  God  with  which 
we  have  become  identified,  and  it  is 
desfined  to  accomplish  all  that  is 
claimed  for  it.  It  will  roll  forth,  gath- 
ering- strength  upon  the  right  hand  and 
upon  the  left,  until  every  power  that 
is  opposed  to  it  is  brought  into  full 
subjection  to  the  mind  and  will  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  until  He  will 
reign  upon  th^  earth  whose  right  it  is 
to  reign — our  beloved  elder  brother, 
Jesus  Christ.  I  rejoice  in  this  work. 
It  has  become  a  part*  of  my  very  na- 
ture. I  know  it  is  true.  I  have 
watched  its  progress  from  my  earliest 
recollection.  I  was  with  the  people  as 
a  boy  when  th?y  were  driven  from 
Illinois,  and  I  have  been  with  them 
from  that  time  to  this.  The  knowledge 
of  the  work  of  God  has  increased  in  my 
heart  just  as  daylight  increases  when 
the  morning  dawns  upon  the  earth  until 
the  earth  is  bathed  in  the  refulgence  of 
light.  There  have  been  times  when  the 
clouds  have  been  lowering,  and,  to  look 
at  things  from  a  natural  standpoint, 
it  seemed  as  if  the  people  of  God 
would  be  annihilated;  but  the  power  of 
the  Almighty  has  been  manifest  and 
they  have  been  delivered.  I  am  just  as 
satisfied  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God  as  I  am  that  I  am 
standing  here  before  you,  and  also  that 
President  Brigham  Young  was  his  suc- 
cessor; that  President  John  Taylor,  as 
the  third  President  of  the  Church,  was 
'a  prophet  of  God,  inspired  to  accomplish 
what  he  did;  that  Wilford  Woodruff 
in  his  turn  was  clothed  upon  with  the 
power  of  Almighty  God  and  was  a 
prophet  in  the  midst  of  the  people; 
that  Lorenzo  Snow  had  prophetic  pow- 
ers, and,  as  the  President  of  the  Church, 
held  the  keys  of  authority  upon  the 
earth  in  his  time,  and  his  testimony  to 
the  people  was  the  word  of  God;  and 
our  present  leader,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  is 
a  prophet  of  God.  I  bear  this  testimony 
to  you  in  all  solemnity.  I  testify  that 
this  work  is  destined  to  triumph  and  to 
roll  forth  until  it  fills  the  whole  earth. 
May  the  blessings  of  God  attend  us  in 


the  future  meetings  of  the  conference 
that  we  may  have  a  time  of  rejoicing 
while  together.  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,   our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  ROSKELLEY, 
(Of  the  Logan  Temple.) 
I  take  pleasure,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  representing  the  second  temple 
dedicated  to  the  service  of  God  in  this 
inter-mountain  region.  The  Logan  Tem- 
ple was  opened  in  18S4,  and  since  that 
time  thousands  upon  thousands  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  entered  its  sa- 
cred precincts,  receiving  blessings  at 
the  hands  of  the  servants  and  hand- 
maidens of  God  laboring  there.  The 
spirit  of  Elijah  has  rested  upon  the  la- 
bors of  God's  servants  and  hand- 
maidens, so  much  that  thousands 
have  received  blessings  at  their  hands. 
Their  hearts  have  been  made  to  rejoice 
in  the  holy  one  of  Israel,  and  they  have 
gone  from  the  house  of  the  Lord  feel- 
ing that  God's  presence  is  resting  upon 
the  Temples  that  have  been  erected  for 
the  administration  of  ordinances  per- 
taining to  the  salvation  of  the  living 
and  the  redemption  of  the  dead.  The 
Saints  have  been  made  glad  to  know 
that  the  welding  link  between  parents 
and  children  and  husbands  and  wiv^c 
has  been  made  manifest  in  these  latter 
days  through  the  revelations  of  God  to 
His  servant,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
and  to  his  legal  successors.  The  labor 
in  the  Logan  Temple  has  been  continu- 
ous since  its  dedication.  We  have  re- 
joiced that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has 
been  with  us  in  the  work.  We  have 
been  delighted  with  the  visits  of  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church  and  of  the 
Apostles  who  have  come  to  us  from 
time  to  time  and  given  us  the  benefit  of 
their  administrations  and  counsels.  It 
is  astonishing  how  the  work  has  in- 
creased from  the  time  we  commenced 
in  1884.  True,  the  people  then  had  but 
small  records.  Few  indeed  had  gene- 
alogical records  to  any  extent.  But 
since  that  time  strangers  to  this  work, 
persons  who  had  scarcely  any  faith  in 
the  resurrection  of  the  dead  or  in  a 
hereafter,  have  been  inspired  of  the 
Lord  to  compile  the  history  of  their 


ELDER  JOHN  D. 


t.  McAllister, 


13 


forefathers  and  give  data  sufficient  for 
the  Latter-day  Saints  to  work  in  the 
Temples  for  and  in  behalf  of  their  kin- 
dred dead.  Many  have  hoped  and  pray- 
ed that  ways  might  be  opened  up  to 
them  by  which  they  might  receive  intel- 
ligence pertaining  to  their  ancestors, 
and  I  testify  before  you  that  in  many 
instances  the  prayers  of  such 
Saints  have  been  answered,  and 
they  have  received  information 
pertaining  to  their  kindred  dead  that 
has  simply  astonished  them.  They 
have  come  into  possession  of  informa- 
tion that  they  never  dreamed  was  in 
existence.  The  results  have  been  that 
the  work  of  the  Lord  in  Logan  Temple 
has  been  carried  on  to  a  surprising  ex- 
tent by  persons  who  thought  they  had 
no  record  whatever.  I  well  remember 
persons  talking  with  President  Merrill 
and  telling  him  they  would  like  to  work 
In  the  Temple,  but  they  had  no  record. 
They  simply  knew  a  little  concerning 
their  parents  and  their  brothers  and 
sisters,  but  back  of  that  they  could  not 
go.  President  Merrill  advised  them  to 
do  the  work  for  those  they  knew  about, 
and  God  would  open  the  way  for  them 
to  obtain  information  pertaining  to 
their  grandparents  and  others.  They 
have  done  as  advised,  and  the  informa- 
tion promised  has  come  to  them,  and 
they  have  come  to  President  Merrill 
and  others  testifying  that  the  predic- 
tion of  Brother  Merrill  has  been  fulfill- 
ed. In  some  cases  they  have  received 
books  containing  thousands  of  names  of 
their  ancestors. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  this  is  God's  work.  I 
testify  tha.t  Joseph  Smith  was  an  in- 
spired Prophet  of  God.  Those  who  have 
succeeded  him  in  the  presidency  of  the 
Church  haA^e  also  been  inspired,  and 
they  have  brought  this  work  to  its  pres- 
ent standing.  I  know  that  this  king- 
dom will  triumph,  because  God  has  said 
so.  This  work  will  progress,  salvation 
will  be  given  to  the  living,  if  they  will 
obey  the  laws  of  God,  and  redemption 
shall  be  brought  to  the  dead,  inasmuch 
as  we  will  attend  to  the  duties  and  re- 
quirements made  of  us  by  virtue  of  the 
calling  whereunto  we  are  called.  May 


God  add  His  blessing  to  us  and  help  us 
to  be  ever  faithful  and  true.  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  D.  T.  McALLISTER 

(President  of  Manti  Temple). 

I  will  try  to  -make  you  hear,  if  possi- 
ble. It  is  a  good  while  since  I  spoke 
from  this  stand,  and  my  voice  is  not  so 
strong  as  it  used  to  be.  It  has  been 
used  a  great  deal  in  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  I  was  on  this  ground  when  we 
built  the  tabernacle  on  the  corner  of 
this  block  where  the  Assembly  Hall  now 
stands.  At  that  time  our  meeting 
place  was  over  where  the  wall  now  is, 
in  a  little,  rough  house,  but  the  meet- 
ings were  greatly  enjoyed  by  the  Saints. 
That  is  fifty-three  years  ago.  I  have 
seen  the  growth  of  the  people.  Today 
we  find  a  great  people  in  these  moun- 
tains, comfortably  housed,  clothed  and 
fed,  and  enjoying  the  visits  and  bless- 
ings of  the  servants  of  the  Lord  who 
preside  over  us.  "We  have  remembered 
our  leaders  and  their  families,  and  we 
pray  always  that  the  Lord  will  bless 
them,  and  that  their  families  will  be 
found  walking  in  His  ways.  It  is  very 
nice  indeed  to  have  the  privilege  of 
meeting  in  this  Tabernacle.  I  worked 
with  the  brethren  when  the  house  was 
built,  and  a  good,  sweet  spirit  was  with 
us.  The  lumber  that  came  here  from 
the  canyon,  I  measured  it;  and  I  also 
measured  the  stone  work  of  the  masons 
on  the  Temple,  and  reported  it  to  Da- 
vid O.  Calder  at  the  President's  office. 
I  am  sixty  years  in  the  Church,  the 
eleventh  of  the  month.  I  came  into 
these  mountains  but  a  boy.  I  made 
the  acquaintance  of  the  boys  that  are 
now  men,  and  some  of  them  great 
grandfathers  like  myself.  They  have 
striven  all  that  they  could  to  carry 
out  the  purposes  of  the  Lord,  and 
some  of  them,  I  presume,  count  from 
thirty  to  forty  children.  We  were  poor, 
but  the  Lord  blessed  us.  We  worked. 
If  we  had  nothing  to  eat,  we  asked 
the  Lord  to  open  the  way,  and  He  has 
done  so.  Today  we  find  beautiful  cities 
and  beautiful  temples.  We  commenced 
our  labors  here  for  the  dead,  I  think,  in 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Endowment  House.  The  first  en- 
dowments for  the  living  given  in  Utah 
were  given  in  the  old  Council  House, 
which  stood  on  the  corner  now  occupied 
by  the  Deseret  News  building.  Since 
then  we  have  progressed  until  we  find 
ourselves  very  comfortably  located  in 
the  temples  that  have  been  erected  un- 
der the  blessing  and  power  of  God. 

For  the  last  eleven  years  I  have  been 
in  the  Manti  Temple.  I  succeeded  Presi- 
dent Anthon  H.  Lund.  Elder  John  B. 
Maiben  is  my  assistant.  I  was  called 
there  by  President  Woodruff  from  the 
St.  George  Temple,  where  I  presided  in 
his  absence,  with  Elders  David  H.  Can- 
non and  James  G.  Bleak  assisting. 
What  a  glorious  work  has  been  done 
in  that  house  of  the  Lord,  and  we  re- 
joice that  we  were  privileged  to  work 
therein.  President  Young  sent  for  me 
and  wanted  me  to  go  to  St.  George  to 
assist  in  the  temple.  I  made  every- 
thing ready  as  well  as  I  could  and  at 
once  proceeded  to  assume  the  position. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  in  His  house 
is  for  His  sons  and  daughters.  We 
have  the  word  of  God,  and  it  is  pub- 
lished. The  way  has  been  revealed  for 
ourselves  and  our  children  to  walk  in. 
I  wonder  sometimes  that  our  children 
who  live  so  near  to  the  house  of  the 
Lord  should  marry  outside  of  it.  When 
we  do  not  marry  in  His  house. we  do  not 
marry  in  His  way.  If  we  marry  out- 
side of  His  house,  it  does  for  this  life; 
but  when  we  get  beyond  we  have  no 
claim  upon  each  other.  Sometimes  our 
children  go  into  by  and  forbidden  paths, 
leaving  the  way  of  the  Lord,  but  the 
Spirit  feels  after  them,  the  parents  feel 
after  them,  and  they  are  brought  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth,  they  receive 
blessings  in  the  house  of  the  Lord,  and 
are  numbered  with  the  faithful  today. 
The  work  for  the  dead  is  upon  our 
shoulders.  Joseph  Smith,  before  he 
was  assassinated,  gave  unto  us  the 
word  of  the  Lord  in  relation  to  the  work 
for  the  dead,  and  he  quoted  some  scrip- 
ture in  reference  to  it.  Our  fathers 
and  our  mothers  have  been  sealed  to- 
gether, the  children  have  been  sealed 


to  their  parents,  and  the  work  has  been 
done  for  our  kindred  who  passed  away 
without  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  This 
is  the  work  that  has  been  spoken  of  by 
our  brethren,  and  it  is  increasing.  In 
three  days  I  sealed  to  parents  over 
thirteen  hundred  children,  and  those 
that  have  done  this  work  feel  glorious 
before  the  Lord. 

I  represent  now  the  Manti  Temple. 
This  season  we  have  been  repairing 
the  roof  and  the  water-pipe.  We  have 
beautiful  water,  and  all  that  we  need, 
not  only  for  temple  work,  but  also 
to  water  the  grounds.  It  will 
require  a  great  deal  of  means,  how- 
ever, to  make  that  house  as  beautiful 
outside  as  it  is  in.  We  have  one  of 
the  most  beautiful  temples  in  the  moun- 
tains. It  is  well  taken  care  of,  and 
those  who  go  in  feel  the  Spirit  and 
power  of  God  resting  upon  them.  Our 
brethren  and  sisters  who  were 
in  ill  health  have  come  there 
to  be  administered  to,  and  we 
have  attended  to  them,  and  by  the 
blessing  and  power  of  the  Lord  their 
sickness  has  been  overcome  and  they 
are  well  today.  We  get  letters  some- 
times from  those  who  have  been  blessed 
of  the  Lord  in  this  way.  It  gives  me 
joy  to  speak  of  the  work  in  the  temple. 
I  must  not  forget  to  mention  the  faith- 
ful labors  of  those  workers  who  have 
been  sent  unto  us  from  the  stakes  of 
Zion.  We  release  them,  and  some  are 
sent  again  to  help  us.  We  have  never 
had  to  stop  on  account  of  workei's  be- 
ing absent. 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  I  have 
lived  as  Ion?  as  I  have,  to  see  our 
boys  grown  up  to  be  men  and  to  become 
ministers  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
I  love  them,  and  I  am  satisfied  with 
them,  and  especially  so  with  our  breth- 
ren who  compose  the  First  Presidency. 
They  are  good  men,  the  Lord's  men, 
whom  He  wanted  to  lead,  guide  and  di- 
rect in  the  affairs  of  Zion.  Bless  you, 
my  brethren  who  preside;  bless  you, 
Saints,  in  your  homes;  may  you  con- 
tinue to  be  healthful,  peaceful  and  full 
of  love,  and  may  all  things  work  to- 
gether for  your  good,   that  you  may 


PRESIDENT   FRANCIS   M.  LYMAN. 


15 


•ever  enjoy  the  blessings  of  life  and  live 
till  your  days  are  fully  numbered  on 
the  earth.  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  choir  rendered  a  sacred  song  en- 
titled, "Peace  Be  Still." 

PRESIDENT   FRANCIS   M.  LYMAN. 

Material  Prosperity  of  the  Nation— Excellent 
Advice  to  Latter-day  Saints  and  the  People 
at  Large. 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may 
be  with  us  the  remainder  of  this  confer- 
ence as  it  has  been  from  the  beginning, 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  gathered 
here  may  each  and  all  receive  the 
words  of  encouragment  and  instruction 
which  are  necessary  for  their  welfare. 

This  has  been  a  very  remarkable  year 
in  the  world.  As  we  are  all  well  aware, 
wars  afflict  the  nations,  and  serious 
troubles,  complications  and  accidents 
fill  the  world  with  sorrow.  The  Latter- 
day  Saints,  however,  have  dwelt  in 
peace,  and  have  been  remarkably 
blessed  and  prospered,  though  in  some 
sections  they  have  suffered  seriously 
from  drouth.  On  the  whole,  we  have 
very  great  reason  to  rejoice  and  to 
thank  the  Lord,  not  only  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  all  the  people  of  this  great 
nation.  I  believe  that  when  this  year 
shall  have  closed  it  will  go  into  history 
as  one  of  the  most  fruitful  and  pros- 
perous that  the  nation  has  every  en- 
joyed. The  Latter-day  Saints  have  not 
been  prepared  to  take  care  of  the  great 
blessings  that  the  Lord  has  bestowed 
upon '  them  in  the  fruitf ulness  of  the 
earth;  for  a  large  percentage  of  our 
fruits  and  vegetables  have  gone  to 
•waste,  because  we  have  been  unable 
to  utilize  them.  We  have  not  been  pre- 
pared with  factories  for  the  cannine  of 
our  fruits  and  vegetables,  and  have 
therefore  not  been  in  a  position  to  make 
the  best  use  of  the  blessings  that  have 
been  so  generously  poured  out  upon  us. 
It  behooves  us  to  make  profitable  use  of 
the  bounteous  seasons  which  the  Lord 
is  bestowing  upon  the  people,  because 
they  do  not  always  last.  The  seasons 
vary  greatly,  and  wisdom  would 
dictate  that  with  the  capital  which  the 
people  of  this  great  state  possess  in  la- 
bor and  in  means  we  should  be  pre- 


pared for  the  blessings  which  the  Lord 
pours  out  upon  us.  We  should  estab- 
lish factories  to  utilize  the  raw.  ma- 
terial with  which  the  country  abounds, 
and  we  should  be  ready  and  forehanded. 
Our  barns  and  our  granaries  should  be 
built,  our  factories  should  be  estab- 
lished, ready  for  these  fruitful  seasons 
when  they  come  upon  us.  We  ought 
to  take  advantage  of  these  fruitful 
years  also  to  meet  all  our  obligations, 
as  we  have  been  so  thoroughly  taught 
by  our  leaders,  so  that  when  the  times 
of  stringency  and  panics  come  upon  us 
we  will  be  in  a  condition  to  endure 
the  strain  and  not  be  brought  to  bank- 
ruptcy and  ruin.  The  sugar  industry 
possibly  comes  nearer  meeting  the  de- 
mands of  the  people  than  any  estab- 
lished in  this  state;  but  In  other  lines 
of  industry,  there  should  be  estab 
lished  the  necesasry  facilities  for 
making  proper  use  of  the  blessings 
which  the  Lord  pours  out  upon  us. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  should  address 
themselves  to  economy  and  carefulness 
in  their  financial  affairs.  They  ought 
to  restrain  any  inclination  to  extrava- 
gance in  every  line,  and  to  prepare 
themselveSj  not  only  with  manufactures 
and  other  arrangements  for  utilizing 
the  resources  of  the  country,  but  also 
to  meet  the  hard  times  that  come  oc- 
casionally in  the  land.  Trj.e  fruitful 
seasons  are  now  upon  us,  and  possibly 
may  last  for  a  few  more  years,  and  then 
stringent  times  'will  come,  as  certainly, 
I  presume,  as  they  have  come  in  the 
past.  Forewarned,  forearmed!  Times 
will  change  in  the  future  as 
they  have  in  the  past,  and  we 
need  to  be  ready  for  the  times 
as  they  chang.e  The  older  part 
of  the  population  have  had  experience 
and  training,  and  they  should  profit 
thereby;  but  there  are  always  genera- 
tions coming  up  among  us  that  are  un- 
trained and  inexperienced,  and  with  the 
idea  perhaps  that  things  will  always 
continue  as  they  are.  A  note  of  warn- 
ing has  been  sounded  by  our  leaders 
during  the  years  that  are  past,  advising 
us,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  to  free  our- 
selves from  debt,  from  mortgages  and 
from  obligations  that  we  may  not  be 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


able  to  meet.  All  these  contracts  should 
be  honorably  fulfilled,  and  we  should 
cease  to  be  the  slaves  of  obligations 
that  bind  us  down  and  hamper  us  in 
our  lives.  We  want  to  be  men  among 
men,  and  to  have  a  measure  of  inde- 
pendence. I  have  felt  it  to  be  the  de- 
sign of  the  Lord  in  giving  to  the  people 
of  our  beloved  state  the  prosperity 
that  has  come  to  us,  that  we  should 
prepare  ourselves  for  serious  times  in 
the  future;  for  the  lean  years  will  fol- 
low those  of  fatness.  I  would  like  it  if 
all  Israel  would  listen,  and  address 
themselves  most  earnestly  and  with 
every  effort  in  their  power  to  freeing 
themselves  from  every  obligation  to 
the  banks,  to  their  neighbors,  to  the 
merchants,  to  the  builders,  and  to  all 
men  that  are  in  business.  Clear  off  all 
your  obligations,  and  be  free.  Have  a 
little  something  in  your  granaries;  havb 
some  credit  at  the  savings  banks;  and 
instead  of  living  upon  means  that  be- 
long to  your  friends,  live  on  your  own. 
Pay  for  your  houses,  for  your  machin- 
ery, for  your  wagons,  for  your  mer- 
chandise, for  the  food  you  have  eaten 
and  for  the  clothes  you  have  worn  out. 
Do  all  this,  and  see  the  time  when  you 
can  meet  your  business  man  and  pay 
for  his  wares  as  you  receive  them*  It 
is  wonderfully  comfortable  for  a  man 
or  a  woman  to  be  dressed  in  their  own 
clothing,  to  live  in  their  own  house,  and 
to  own  everything  that  they  occupy 
and  enjoy,  instead  of  taking  care  of  the 
means  of  other  people  and  paying 
usury.  Rather  let  them  be  in  a  shape 
to  receive  usury.  I  believe  that 
it  is  quite  pleasing  to  the  Lord  that  we 
should  be  out  of  debt.  I  believe  that 
He  requires  it  of  us.  I  have  believed  it 
for  many  years.  I  advise  and  exhort 
the  Latter-day  Saints  to  free  them- 
selves from  every  obligation  as  soon  as 
they  can  possibly  do  so.  Though  we 
may  have  yet  a  few  years  of  prosper- 
ity, they  will  not  be  very  many,  and 
while  the  times  are  propitious  you  want 
to  free  your  hands,-  and  then  train 
yourselves  to  stay  out  of  debt.  Do  not 
allow  speculation  and  the  prospect  of 
great  fortunes  to  lead  you  into  the 
bondage  of  debt.    That  is  the  bondage 


that  is  upon  some  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  today.  Hence  I  exhort  my  breth- 
ren throughout  Zion  to  free  themselves 
from  all  their  obligations.  I  ask  my 
brethren  who  have  wealth,  to  take 
measures  to  make  profitable  use  of  the 
blessings  which  the  Lord  bestows  upon 
us.  There  is  profit  in  the  canning  of 
all.  our  fruits.  I  am  not  prepared  to 
say  what  percentage  has  been  wasted, 
but  in  my  visits  among  the  settlements 
I  have  found  the  lands  upon  which  or- 
chards stand  fairly  covered  with  fruit 
that  has  fallen  and  is  rotting.  It  is 
astonishing  the  waste  that  can  be  dis- 
covered in  this  land.  It  is  astonishing 
the  amount  of  canned  goods  that  are 
brought  into  this  State.  It  is  a  re- 
proach to  the  people  of  Utah.  I  re- 
member outfitting  for  a  trip  into  Arizo- 
na from  St.  George  a  few  years  ago, 
and  the  canned  grapes  that  we  supplied 
ourselves  with  were  from  California, 
the  canned  meats  were  from  California, 
the  salmon  and  other  canned  articles 
were  from  Oregon  or  some  other  state. 
Turkeys,  ducks,  geese,  poultry  of  all 
kinds  are  brought  into  this  state  by  the 
carload.  It  is  a  reproach  to  the  state. 
We  ought  to  produce  all  these  things 
ourselves,  and  also  supply  our  neigh- 
bors. We  have  done  exactly  in  the  su- 
gar business  what  we  ought  to  do  in 
other  lines.  Today  we  make  all  the 
sugar  that  Utah  consumes,  and  we  send 
as  much  abroad  to  our  neighbors.  We 
keep  the  money  here  that  pays  for 
our  own  sugar,  and  we  bring  as  much 
more  into  the  state  from  the  sale  of 
s  'gar  outside.  It  has  assisted  to  make 
ojr  state  one  of  the  most  comfortable 
and  independent  states  of  the  west.  But 
it  is  not  enough  that  we  should  save 
on  the  sugar  business.  We  should  be 
as  wise  in  the  handling  of  our  grains, 
our  vegetables  and  our  fruits.  They 
should  be  taken  proper  care  of  so  that 
they  may  command  the  mar- 
ket, and  be  in  demand  in  every 
direction.  We  are  surrounded 
by  mining  camps,  and  Utah 
ought  to  furnish  everything  they  need 
in  an  agricultural  and  industrial  line, 
I  want  to  advise  business  men,  men  of 
finance,  to  give  attention  to  these  mat- 


PRESIDENT   FRANCIS   M.  LYMAN. 


17 


ters,  that  our  manufacturies  may  be 
increased,  so  that  the  materials  which 
are  given  to  us  by  the  fruitfulness  of 
the  earth  may  be  profitably  used, and  we 
become  an  independent  people  in  this 
state.  That  is  what  I  would  like  to 
see  in  Utah.  We  have  a  good  country. 
We  live  in  peace  and  in  harmony;  and 
in  addition  to  all  that  we  can  do  for 
ourselves,  the  hand  of  the  government 
is  reaching  out  to  help  us  in  the  irri- 
gation of  our  country.  There  is  mois- 
ture enough  in  this  land,  if  only  prop- 
erly utilized.  The  God  of  heaven  has 
given  us  rains  and  snows  and  fountains 
of  water  that  are  almost  abundant. 
If  we  would  but  take  care  of  the  re- 
sources that  He  has  given  to  us,  the 
state  is  well  supplied  with  the  neces- 
sary water,  and  I  expect  to  see  the  time 
when  the  bench  lands  in  all  our  valleys 
will  be  producing  to  their  utmost  capa- 
city. In  our  splendid  state  fair  we  can 
see  evidences  of  what  has  been  done 
this  season  in  the  way  of  dry  farming 
by  the  experimental  stations  in  this 
state.  It  is  wonderful  the  grains  that 
have  been  produced  on  the  dry  lands; 
and  what  has  been  done  this  year  can 
be  done  generally,  though  possibly  not 
always  so  well,  because,  as  I  an- 
nounced in  the  beginning,  this  has  been 
a  remarkable  year.  But  we  want  to  see 
the  time  when  all  these  lines*  of  indus- 
try and  fruitfulness  are  utilized  and 
controlled  by  the  people  of  Utah,  so 
that  we  shall  not  have  to  bring  flour 
and  grain  here  from  other  states  as  we 
are  doing  today.  We  do  not  want  their 
grains  and  vegetables  and  their  poul- 
try to  be  in  demand  over  ours.  We 
do  not  want  their  pork.  We  do  not 
want  their  hams,  nor  their  lard.  We 
should  produce  it  here  ourselves. 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends 
who  dwell  in  the  state  of  Utah, 
let  us  join  together  and  utilize  the 
ability,  the  wisdom  and  the  capital  that 
we  have  for  the  prosperity  of  this  great 
State.  I  feel  that  it  will  be  profitable 
for  us  to  consider  these  things,  and  to 
make  as  much  progress  as  we  can,  and 
not  too  slowly.  It  is  wonderful  what 
has  been  accomplished  in  some  direc- 
tions.    The  mining  industries  of  the 


state  receive  much  attention  and  in- 
vestment,  and  we  would  like  to  in- 
vite capital  to  enter  into  other  lines  of 
business.    We  would  like  the  million- 
aires and  those  who  have  become  rich 
.out  of  the  mines  of  this  state,  to  help 
also  in  the  establishment  of  manufac- 
tories that  will  give  employment  to  the 
people,    so    that  no    man    can  come 
to  the  State    of  Utah,    and  complain 
of  being  out  of  employment.     Such  a 
cry  should  not  be  heard  among  us  when 
the  very  elements  all  around  are  invit- 
ing factories  and  industries  of  every 
kind.     We  want  the  help  of  those  who 
have  wealth,  those  who  have  genius, 
and  those  who  have  business  qualities. 
We  would  like  to  have  them  make  Utah 
the  gem  of  the  mountains,  the  richest 
and  the  most  inviting  state -in  the  west. 
We  do  not    object    to  prosperity— we 
would  like  it  to  beam  upon  all  the  peo- 
ple.    We  would  like  all  to  be  united 
and  to  labor  harmoniously  together  in 
state  affairs,  in  business  affairs,  and 
in  the  affairs  of  citizenship  generally. 
We  desire  peace;  we  do  not  want  war. 
Latter-day  Saints  are  a  peaceable  peo- 
ple.    We  love  peace;  we  seek  peace; 
we  preach  it,  we  teach  it,  we  advise  and 
counsel  it,  all  the  time;  for  this  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  engaged  in.     This  is  the  land 
of  Zion— the  land  of  peace— the  land  of 
the  pure  in  heart.     The  pure  in  heart 
will  be  happy;  and  those  who  are  not 
pure  and  are  not  conscientious  in  their 
lives  will  reap  the  reward  of  sorrow. 
We  ask  you  to  repent  and  to  reform  in 
your  morals,  if  there  be  necessity.  We 
want  to  reform  in  our  finances,  in  our 
societies,   in  our  associations,   and  in 
our   labors,   that   everything  may  be 
done  pleasing  to  the  Lord  in  this  beau- 
tiful State,  with  its  lofty  mountains, 
with  its  plentiful  supply  of  health,  and 
with  the  blessing  and  the  protection  of 
these  United  States.     Thank  the  Lord 
for  personal  liberty.     Thank  the  Lord 
for  the  principles  established  by  our 
forefathers  upon  this  blessed  land  of 
Zion.      How  grateful  we  ought  to  be 
for  this  liberty  and  freedom,  and  let  us 
make  the  very  best  use  of  it  we  possi- 
bly can. 


18 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Again  I  say,  relieve  yourselves,  my 
brethren,  from  your  financial  obliga- 
tions. Before  these  fat  years  have 
past,  make  good  use  of  everything  that 
comes  within  your  reach  and  devote 
your  attention  to  the  meeting  of  your 
obligations,  so  that  you  may  become 
free  men,  and  then  contract  no  more 
debts.  Keep  out  of  debt,  and  be  a  free 
people,  so  that  you  will  have  means 
with  which  to  be  buried  when  you  die, 
and  a  little  besides  to  leave  for  the 
widow  and  the  helpless  children.  Let 
us  have  things  in  a  little  better  condi- 
tion than  we  have  had  them  in  the  past. 
Avoid  bankruptcy  and  ruin;  for  a  man 
cannot  be  comfortable  spiritually  who  is 
in  bondage  financially. 

God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  enable  us  all  to  be  wise  and  pru- 
dent in  our  financial  affairs  as  well  as 
in  spiritual  matters.  As  we  have  the 
great  spiritual  blessings,  and  know  the 
way  back  into  the  presence  of  the 
Father,  let  us  also  seek  the  wisdom 
that  will  make  us  equal  to  the  world 
in  business  affairs.  May  God  keep  us 
faithful  and  humble.     May  He  inspire 


the  hearts  of  the  men  who  lead 
us,  that  they  may  be  equal  to  the  great 
work  that  is  upon  them.  The  Lord  is 
with  us,  and  will  bring  us  off  victori- 
ous. I  know  this  as  I  know  that  I 
live.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith,  the 
prophet  of  the  nineteenth  century,  was 
sent  of  God,  and  he  did  his  work  most 
faithfully  and  well;  and  every  one  of 
his  successors  have  been  faithful  and 
true  to  the  end.  As  Jesus  set  the  ex- 
ample for  all  men,  so  have  His  follow- 
ers, the  prophets  who  have  stood  at  the 
head  of  this  great  people,  pet  the  ex- 
ample for  you  and  me,  that  we  should 
endure  and  be  faithful  and  true  to  God 
and  His  cause  always,  and  He  will  re- 
deem and  save  us  most  perfectly  and 
fully.  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

"Our  God,  we  raise  to  Thee 
'ii.?  'fcs  for  Thy  blessings  free 
We  here  enjoy." 

Benediction  by  Elder  William  Budge, 
president  of  Bear  Lake  stake. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Friday,  October  7,  10  a.  m. 
The  meeting  opened  by  the  choir  and 
congregation  singing  the  hymn: 

Redeemer  of  Israel, 
Our  only  delight. 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Thomas 
Chamberlain. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

Ye  simple  souls  who  stray 
Far  from  the  path  of  peace — 

That  lonely,  unfrequented  way 
To  life  and  happiness. 

ELDER  HUGH  S.  GOWANS, 
(President  of  Tooele  Stake.) 

I  feel  very  pleased,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  the  privilege  of  meeting  with 
you  in  the  general  conference.  To  en- 
joy the  society  and  fellowship  of  my 


brethren  is  inestimable.  The  associa- 
tion and  fellowship  of  the  Saints  is  all 
that  I  feel  to  live  for;  it  is  my  joy,  my 
happiness,  my  life. 

I  l-epresent  what  is  known  as  the 
Tooele  Stake  of  Zion,  located  between 
the  county  of  Salt  Lake  and  the  Great 
American  Desert.  The  population  of 
the  stake  is  something  over  3,000;  and 
to  give  you  a  brief  idea  of  the  condi- 
tion of  the  people  I  will  here  state  that 
it  is  22  years  this  month  since  I  was 
chosen  to  preside  over  the  Tooele 
stake.  At  that  time  the  population  was 
about  the  same  as  it  is  now.  In  20 
years  there  has  been  an  increase  of  159 
souls  in  that  stake.  The  question  might 
be  asked,  why  is  this?  The  answer  is, 
our  young  people  have  gone  away  to 
different  parts  of  the  country.  The 
Cassia  stake  has  been  settled  princi- 


ELDER   WILLIAM  BUDGE. 


iy 


pally  by  people  from  Tooele  Stake.  We 
have  had  no  particular  inducements  to 
offer  for  people  to  settle  with  us,  like 
some  of  our  northern  stakes  have,  our 
resources  have  been   so  limited.  But 
there  is  one  feature  that  I  feel  pleased 
to  report,  and  that  is,  during-  all  that 
time,  although  the  increase  of  popula- 
tion has  been  so  slight,  the  amount  of 
tithing-  paid    by    the    people  has  been 
doubled.    I  take  this  as  an  evidence  of 
an  increase  of  faith  on  the  part  of  the 
people,    and    possibly    an    increase  of 
■wealth  also.    The    Tooele   valley   is  a 
very  beautiful  one,  but  our  water  sup- 
ply is  quite  limited,  and  we  are  not 
able  to  increase  on  that  account.  The 
land,  however,  is  capable  of  much  cul- 
tivation.     An    experiment    farm  was 
commenced   there   last   year,   and  al- 
though I  have  not  been  to  see  the  state 
fair  yet,  I  am  informed  that  the  dis- 
play from  the  Tooele  experiment  sta- 
tion exceeds  anything  in  that  line  in  the 
fair.    This  is  a  very  gratifying  report, 
considering  that  the  exhibit  is  the  re- 
sult of  what    we    understand    of  dry 
farming.    We  are  living  in  compara- 
tive peace.    We  have  mining  camps  in 
our  Stake,  and  they  furnish  a  good  mar- 
Tcet  for  the  products  of  the  farmer,  and 
in  this  respect  they  are  beneficial  to 
the  people.    We  have  no  factories  or 
public  works  in  our  county;  but  I  feel 
that  the  admonition  given  to  us  yester- 
day by  -'resident  Lyman,  in  regard  to 
the  establishment    of    canneries  and 
other  : n.nstries,  was  very  good  advice 
to  the  people  of  Tooele  county;  for,  as 
in  other  places,  we  have  not  been  pre- 
pared   to    take    care    of  the  blessings 
which  God    has   bestowed  upon  us  as 
much  as  we  ought  to  have  been. 

J  rejoice  very  much  to  be  with  you, 
and  to  make  this  report  of  the  Tooele 
Stake.  I  pray  that  we  may  be  enabled 
to  live  in  the  front  ranks  of  the 
Stakes  of  Zion,  enjoying  the  light  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  living  in 
harmony  with  the  authorities  that  God 
has  placed  upon  the  ea.rth.  "To  be  in 
harmony"  should  be  the  watchword  of 
every  Latter-day  Saint.  That  God  may 
-enable  us  to  do  so,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  BUDGE, 
(President  of  Bear  Lake  Stake.) 
My  brethren  and  sisters:    I  am  very 
much  pleased  to  have  the  opportunity 
of  representing  the  Bear  Lake  Stake, 
though    that    pleasure    would  be  in- 
creased if  I  were  certain  that  I  could 
speak  so  that  the  congregation  might 
hear.   It  is  not  very  pleasant  to  sit  and 
not  be  able  to  follow  the  remarks  of 
the  speaker.    I  do  not  know  how  inter- 
esting my  report  may  be,  neither  am 
I  certain  that  I  can  interest  you  at  all 
in  reporting  a  country  like  Bear  Lake, 
after  the  many  very  pleasant  reports 
we  have  heard    from   presidents  who 
live   in   more   favored   localities.  The 
name  of  Bear  Lake  has  been  with  many 
people  the  occasion  of  a  cold  chill  com- 
ing over  them,  they  laboring  under  im- 
pressions which    they    have  received 
from  reports  made  of  the  valley  in  the 
earliest    times.      I    believe  that  Bear 
Lake  is  the  oldest  organized  stake  in 
Idaho.    We  are  living  6,000  feet  above 
sea  level,  and    it    is    naturally  a  cold, 
country    in   the   winter.    The  winters 
have  been  long  and  the  summers  com- 
paratively short,  although,  as  I  shall 
explain  to  you,  there  has  been  quite  a 
change  in  the  climate  and  in  the  length 
of  the  summer  seasons,  agreeable  with 
the  promises  made  by  the  leaders  of 
the  Church  during  their  visits  to  that 
country.    The  first  settlers  went  there 
in  1863,  I  believe,  under  the  leadership 
of  that  noted  pioneer  and  fatherly  ad- 
viser, Apostle  C.  C.  Rich.    It  was  in  the 
year  1870  that  I  was  sent  to  labor  in 
that  country,  and  I  have  been  there 
for  34  years,  so  I  am  well  acquainted 
with  the  people  and  with  their  situa- 
tion.    One  portion  of  the  Bear  Lake 
Stake  has  been  taken  from  it  and  called 
Star  Valley  Stake,  another  portion  has 
gone  to  the    Woodruff    Stake,    and  a 
small  portion  to  one  of  the  other  Stakes 
in  Idaho;  but  we  now  have,  I  believe, 
a  larger  population  than  we  had  before. 
Bear    Lake    has    prospered,    and  the 
Church  has  prospered  exceedingly  in 
Idaho,  for  we  now  have  ten  Stakes  of 
Zion  in  that  State,  and  all  the  Stakes 
are  growing  and  increasing  in  popula- 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tion,  and  doubtless  in  faith  and  good 
works. 

When  I  went  to  Bear  Lake  I  found 
the  people  wrestling-  with  untoward 
conditions.  The  country  was  quite 
frosty.  Sometimes  in  the  summer, 
when  they  expected  a  return  from  their 
labors  in  the  fields,  they  were  disap- 
pointed, in  consequence  of  the  action 
of  the  frosts.  Many  hardships  were 
endured,  which  it  is  not  necessary  for 
me  to  take  up  time  to  refer  to  particu- 
larly; but  the  situation  of  the  people 
was  such  during  the  early  years  of 
settlement,  that  it  was  necessary  to 
haul  almost  all  they  needed  for  their 
support  from  other  places,  chiefly  from 
Cache  valley,  which  entailed  a  great 
deal  of  labor.  Yet  the  people,  trusting 
in  the  Lord  and  in  the  promises  of  His 
servants,  continued  to  work  and  to 
build  up,  and  we  now  have  occasion  to 
thank  God  for  the  fulfillment  of  the 
predictions  of  His  servants.  We  now 
can  raise  grain  without  much  fear  of 
loss.  Sometimes  in  certain  places  the 
frost  touches  the  vegetation,  and  oc- 
casionally does  considerable  damage, 
but  on  the  whole  we  are  confident  about 
raising  the  grain  that  we  need.  We 
have  been  quite  self-contained  in  that 
valley  in  consequence  of  our  situation 
in  disposing  of  our  products.  We  also 
raise  all  kinds  of  common  vegetables. 
We  do  not  raise  potatoes  quite  as  large 
as  some  we  have  heard  of,  but  they  are 
large  enough  to  be  handled  convenient- 
ly, and  they  are  of  excellent  quality,  as 
are  the  other  vegetables  that  are  raised 
there.  We  tried  to  raise  fruit  in  the 
beginning,  but  the  frost  stripped  the 
trees.  We  planted  out  more, — the  frost 
took  them;  and  so  it  continued  until 
about  12  or  15  years  ago,  when  we  be- 
gan to  think  about  it  a  little  more. 
President  C.  C.  Rich  used  to  advise  us 
to  get  into  that  valley  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible after  the  October  conference  lest 
we  might  be  snowed  out,  and  many 
who  were  out  a  little  late  had  to  take 
longer  roads  to  get  home  in  conse- 
quence, and  I  remember  some  com- 
panies being  snowed  out  altogether. 
But  now  the  people  travel  in  and  out 
a'lmost  till  Christmas,  so  that  the  sum- 


mer has  stretched  out  considerably,, 
and  the  winter  is  shortened  probably 
six  weeks  or  two  months.  Last  win- 
ter we  had  more  snow  than  we  had 
for  several  winters,  but  some  of  the 
brethren  traveled  occasionally  during 
the  entire  winter. 

When  we  speak  of  the  favorable 
changes  that  have  appeared  in  con- 
nection with  many  things,  we  are  re- 
minded by  some  people  that  such 
changes  are  common  in  all  valleys  after 
settlement,  cultivation,  building  of 
houses,  the  making  of  so  many  fires, 
and  so  on- — as  much  as  to  say  that  tnere 
is  nothing  at  all  remarkable  about 
these  changes.  Now,  I  have  no  dis- 
position to  say  that  changes  of  this 
kind  are  not  brought  about  in  this  way, 
but  it  does  not  lessen  in  the  least  de- 
gree the  thankfulness  in  my  heart  to- 
ward God  for  His  goodness  in  bringing 
about  the  changes  in  any  way  He  pleas- 
es. The  Lord  does  His  work  among  us 
in  many  ways.  The  means  employed 
sometimes  appear  in  part,  and  at  other 
times  they  are  not  plain  to  us,  yet  we 
have  a  right  to  say  that  God  has  done 
it.  It  does  not  matter  to  a  Saint  how 
the  Lord  brings  about  changes  in  ful- 
fillment of  His  declarations  through 
His  servants,  so  long  as  they  come. 
Hence  we  acknowledge  His  hand  in  all 
things.  There  is  one  peculiarity  to 
which  I  might  refer  to  aid  us  in  our 
talks  upon  this  point.  It  snowed  a 
great  deal  in  that  country  in  the  begin- 
ning, much  more  than  it  does  now,  and 
every  time  after  a  snow  a  strong  wind 
arose  from  the  north,  not  so  strong  as 
those  winds  which  used  to  blow  occa- 
sionally near  Farmington,  but  strong 
enough  to  blow  the  snow  from  the 
benches  down  upon  the  towns,  and 
against  the  buildings  and  fences,  some- 
times covering  up  the  fences  complete- 
ly. This  probably  gave  rise  to  some  ex- 
travagant stories  about  Bear  Lake  val- 
ley. Now,  although  the  beginning  of 
the  cessation  of  those  winds  was  not 
particularly  noticed  by  us,  yet  after  a 
time  we  did  observe  that  the  winds 
ceased,  and  now  we  have  no  such  winds 
to  contend  with.  These  winds  were  a 
great  hardship  to  the  people  and  pro- 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY. 


21 


ductive  of  much  labor,  the  roads  being 
filled  up  in  a  few  hours,  and  people 
much  inconvenienced  by  the  snow  be- 
ing piled  up  against  their  houses.  And 
now  that  these  winds  have  actually 
ceased,  how  shall  we  account  for  it? 
We  may  admit  the  cultivation  theory 
in  reference  to  the  changing  of  the 
climate,  but  what  shall  we  say  about 
the  cessation  of  the  winds?  Why,  the 
Lord  has  done  this  as  He  has  done 
other  things  for  His  people.  In  thif 
case,  however,  we  cannot  make  any 
reasonable  explanation  as  to  how  it 
has  been  done.  We  now  raise  grain, 
and  vegetation  of  every  kind.  It  is  a 
good  hay  country,  and  we  are  raising 
fruit  which  is  as  good,  and  I  might  say 
a  great  deal  better  than  most  of  the 
fruit  that  is  raised  in  these  lower  val- 
leys; for  we  have  no  worms,  and,  what 
is  better,  if  the  testimony  of  an  expert 
is  to  be  taken,  we  are  not  likely  to  be 
troubled  with  them,  as  the  altitude  and 
climate  are  against  the  propagation  of 
the  pests,  according  to  his  statement. 
So  we  have  fruit  limited  in  quantity 
only  by  the  efforts  made  to  plant  the 
trees.  We  have  a  glorious  valley  in 
the  summer.  We  have  many  visitors 
in  the  summer  time,  and  the  old  stories 
about  the  country  are  being  forgotten 
in  consequence  of  the  good  reports 
given  by  our  friends  who  visit  us  in  the 
summer  time.  Altogether  we  are  doing 
fine;  the  Lord  has  blessed  us  and  we 
acknowledge  it.  We  have  a  fine  lake 
in  our  valley— as  beautiful  a  sheet  of 
water  as  I  have  seen  in  some  of  the 
continental  countries.  The  borders  of 
the  lake,  though  not  improved  much 
yet,  are  girded  by  the  wild  cottonwood 
tree,  and  in  some  parts  it  is  a  beauti- 
ful sight.  The  tired  visitor  may  sit 
upon  the  golden  sands  of  our  lake, 
bathe  his  tired  feet  in  the  waters,  if 
he  is  so  disposed,  and,  reclining  back 
under  the  scent  of  the  sagebrush  and 
the  wild  rose,  may  dream  of  happier 
days. 

The  people  of  the  Bear  Lake  stake 
feel  exceedingly  well.  Our  meetings 
are  well  attended.  Our  visitors  from 
Salt  Lake  whom  the  Presidency  kindly 
send  us  to  attend  our  conferences  and 


other  meetings  of  a  general  character, 
understand  that  our  people  are  good 
meeting  attenders.  The  people  pay 
their  tithing  so  well  that  the  Presid- 
ing Bishop  says  that  we  are  in  the 
first  rank.  So,  take  it  all  in  all,  we 
rejoice  very  much,  and  I  believe  I  can 
say,  judging  from  reports,  that  there 
are  fewer  of  our  people  moving  away 
from  Bear  Lake  than  from  many  other 
places.  We  rejoice  in  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  We  uphold  the  authorities  of 
the  Church  unanimously,  and  we  are 
thankful  for  the  goodness  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father  to  us  as  a  people  in  the 
Bear  Lake  stake. 

As  for  myself,  I  have  been  in  the 
Church  for  a  long  time,  having  em- 
braced the  Gospel  in  1848.  I  have  been 
honored  with  missions  to  different  lands 
and  among  different  peoples,  and  I  have 
naturally  made  the  acquaintance  of  the 
leading  men  of  the  Church;  and  I  want 
to  say  to  our  stranger  friends  here  that 
I  have  never  seen  nor  heard  of  anything 
that  has  weakened  my  faith  in  the  di- 
vinity of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  met  with  a 
great  many  of  those  authorities  of  the 
Church  that  are  spoken  disrespectfully 
about,  but  I  repeat  I  have  not  seen  or 
heard  one  thing  to  disturb  my  faith  in 
this  work  with  which  I  have  been  so 
long  connected. 

May  the  blessings  of  God  be  multi- 
plied upon  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
may  great  power  be  given  to  those  who 
represent  them  at  home  and  abroad, 
that  the  fulfillment  of  the  predictions 
of  the  Almighty  may  speedily  come  to 
pass.  This  is  my  prayer  and  desire  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY, 
(President  of  Millard  Stake) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  with  a 
degree  of  pleasure  that  I  have  the 
privilege  of  standing  before  you  to 
represent  the  Millard  Stake  of  Zion; 
and  though  I  feel  very  timid  I  hope,  if 
I  may  be  blessed  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  to  be  able  to  make  a  true  report 
of  the  conditions  of  that  Stake.  On 
the  twenty-first  of  next  month  it  will 
be  two  years  since  I  was  called  to  take 


21 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the   position    that    was    filled  by  my 
father    for    twenty-five  years  in  the 
Millard  Stake.    It  is  one  of  the  largest 
slakes   geographically   in    this  State, 
having  the  same    boundary    lines  as 
Millard  county.    We  have  11  organized 
wards,  with  a  population  of  6,000  souls, 
a  little  over    5,000    belonging    to  the 
Church.     We  live  in  peace  with  one 
another,  and  while  we  have  a  thou- 
sand people  dwelling  in  our  midst  who 
do  not  belong  to  the  Church,  with  very 
few  exceptions  they  are  honorable  peo- 
ple and  good  citizens.    While  President 
Smith  yesterday  was  giving  the  number 
in  the  Church  who  hold  the  Priesthood, 
I  thought  of  the  Millard  Stake  of  Zion. 
Out  of  5,000  members  of  the  Church  we 
have  1,000  bearing  the  Priesthood.  Our 
Priesthood   meetings,   which   are  held 
monthly,  are  well  attended,  and  they 
are  among  the  most  enjoyable  meetings 
held  in  that  Stake.    We  usually  have  a 
full  attendance  of  our  High  Council  and 
Bishops.    We  are  united  in  our  labors, 
and  the  people  are  a  good  people.  The 
population  of  the  Stake  remains  about 
stationary,  and  has  done  ever  since  I 
can  remember — and  I  was  born  in  Mil- 
lard Stake.    I  feel    in    relation  to  the 
people  of  that  Stake  that  the  good  are 
growing  better,  and  many  who  have 
been  careless  and  reckless  are  awaken- 
ing to  a  realization  of  the1  fact  that 
Mormonism  is  worthy  of  investigation, 
and  as  a  result  of  investigation  our 
Mutual  Improvement  associations  have 
never  been  in  as  good  a  condition  as 
they  are  at  present.      In    the  Stake 
Mutual  Improvement  convention  held 
last     month     there     were     over  300 
interested  workers  present,  and  we  had 
an  enthusiastic  and  an  enjoyable  con- 
vention.   In  the  11  wards  that  we  have, 
there  are  but  three  saloons,  and,  thanks 
be  to  the  Lord,  not  one  of  them  is  con- 
ducted by  a  Latter-day  Saint.  Con- 
cerning   the     morality     of    the  peo- 
ple,     in      the       last      four  years 
I      know     of      but     one     case  of 
divorce  among  our  people.    The  faith 
of  the  people  is  good,  and  they  love 
the  Lord.    The  authorities  of  the  stake 
are  united  in  their  efforts.    As  to  my- 
self and  counselors,  we  love  one.  an- 


other, we  love  our  labors,  and  we  are 
moderately  well  acquainted  with  the 
conditions  of  the  people  generally,  be- 
ing able  to  call  all  of  them  by  name; 
and,  knowing  their  lives  and  under- 
standing  their   faithfulness,    we  love 
them.    We  are  united  in  support  of  the 
general  authorities  of  the  Church.  We 
live  in  a  locality  that,  is  barren  in  many 
parts  for  the  lack  of  water,  still  there 
have  been  many  predictions  made  con- 
cerning the  development  of  the  Millard 
Stake  of  Zion.    We  have  faith  in  those 
predictions,  but  we  are  not  content  to- 
idly  wait  for  their  fulfillment.    As  the 
Lord  shall  make  manifest  unto  us  what 
to  do,  we  hope  to  labor  until  there  shall 
not  be  any  amount  of  water  unutilized 
in  the  stake.    We  hope  to  see  all  avail- 
able ground  bro.ight  under  cultivation 
that  can  be  made  to  produce.even  with- 
out water,  until  a  much  larger  popula- 
tion can  be  supported  than  at  present. 
We  know  that  this    result    will  be 
brought  about,  for  the  servants  of  the 
Lord,  filled  with  the  spirit  of  inspira- 
tion, have  made  these  predictions  unto- 
us,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  tes- 
tified unto  us  that  the  predictions  were 
true  and  would  be  fulfilled. 

As  to  myself,  I  feel  happy  in  the  work 
of  the  Lord.    I  rejoice  that  I  was  born 
of  goodly  parents.    I  cannot  recall  a 
moment  in  my  life  when  I  doubted  the 
divinity  of  this  work.    I  have  always 
looked   upon   the   Authorities   of  this 
Church  as  being  servants  of  the  Lord. 
I  can  remember  in  my  childhood  when 
President  Young:  used  to  make  his  trips 
through  the  stakes.    My  father  pointed 
him  out  to  me  as  the  servant  of  the 
Lord,  and  I  looked  upon    him    as  a 
Prophet  of  God.   From  that  day  to  this, 
I  have  looked  upon  the  various  Presi- 
dents of  the  Church  as  Prophets  of  the 
Lord,  and  I  have  felt  to  sustain  them, 
not  only  by  my  faith  and  prayers,  but 
by  my  works  as  the  Lord  should  mani- 
fest unto  me  what  there  was  for  me  to 
do.    The  Lord  has  given  me  a  testi- 
mony of  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel. 
I  know  it  is  true,  and  I  doubt  not. 
When  I  was  called  upon  a  mission  to 
the  Netherlands  and  placed  in  one  of 
the  cities  there,  unable  to  speak  a  word 


ELDER  A.  H.  SCHULTHESS. 


23 


of  the  language,  I  gazed  into  the  faces 
of  those  people  as  I  walked  along,  and, 
feeling   that     they    were     honest,  a 
yearning  desire  filled  my  heart  to  be 
able  to  bear  testimony  unto  them  of 
the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel.    I  felt 
that  I  was  not  an  ordinary  man,  but 
that   I    was    sent  out  as  a  messenger 
from  the  Lord;  and  being  filled  with 
that  desire,  and  unable  to  speak  the 
language,  I  studied  and  labored  hard 
to  become  acquainted  with  the  Dutch 
tongue,  and  on  many  occasions  I  fast- 
ed and  prayed.   There  was  a  time  when 
I  was  almost  discouraged,  and  felt  that 
I  could  not  acquire  that  language,  but 
upon  one  occasion  the  power  of  the 
Lord  rested  upon  me,  and  I  think  I 
would  be  justified  in  mentioning  the 
incident  in  this  conference.       I  had 
learned  from  some  Dutch  brethren  a 
few  simple  sentences,   which  enabled 
me  to  go  around  delivering  tracts.  As 
I  delivered  each  tract  I  would  say  that 
it  was  a  Latter-day  Saint  tract,  and 
that  I  would  call  for  it  in  a  few  days; 
but  if  the  people  wished  to  converse 
with  me  I  could  not  understand  them. 
One  Friday,  Brother  B.   G.  Thatcher 
and  I  were  out  and  gathered  nearly  ev- 
ery tract,  leaving  about  12  out.  He 
was  called  to  remain  in  the  office  at 
Rotterdam  on  the  morning  when  this 
incident  took  place,  and  it  occurred  to 
me  that  inasmuch  as  I  was  able  to  ask 
for  a  tract,  I  might  as  well  gather  these 
tracts  that  were  still  out.     The  first 
house  I  went  to,  the  lady  opened  the 
door,  passed  me  the  tract,  and  said, 
"Who  are  you?"    I  could  understand 
that,  and  I  had  learned  to  say  that  I 
was  a  missionary,      representing  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.    She  said,  "Why  didn't  you  say 
"Mormons?"    I  did  not  realize  at  the 
time  what  a  change  had  taken  place  in 
my  hearing  through  the  power  of  the 
Lord,  but  I  could     understand  every 
word  that  that  lady  spoke  to  me.  She 
)said   many   vile   things   against  thle 
Church,  which  I  knew  were  false,  and 
I  was  filled  with  a  yearning  desire  to 
be  able  to  speak  to  her,  and  refute  the 
slanderous  statements  she  made  against 
an  innocent  people.    I  testify  to  you, 


my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  did  receive 
upon  that  occasion,  through  the  power 
of  the  Lord,  the  gift  of  tongues  suf- 
ficiently to  bear  testimony  to  the  di- 
vinity of  the  work  of  God,  and  to  de- 
fend an  innocent  people,  so  much  so 
that  the  woman  herself  was  impressed 
by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  for  she  broke 
down  in  tears  and  said:  "There  may  be 
bad  people  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  I  know  that  you  are  a  ser- 
vant of  the  Lord."  I  mention  this  to 
show  that  though  we  may  sometimes 
feel  downcast  and  discouraged,  the 
Lord  will  never  forget  His  servants, 
and  when  they  need  His  help  He  is  al- 
ways ready  to  help  them.  I  bear  tes- 
timony to  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gos- 
pel in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen, 

ELDER  A.  H.  SCHULTHESS 

(Of  the  Presidency  of  Liberty  Stake). 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  with 
my  brethren  I  feel  very  thankful  for 
this     oppotunity     of     attending  our 
general  conference.    I  regret,  however, 
that  the  conditions  of  so  many  of  our 
people  at  present  are  such  as  to  pre- 
vent them  from  having  this  privilege; 
but  the  hope  fills  our  hearts  that  a  day 
will  come  when  the  people  of  God  will 
be  able  to  lay  aside  their  temporal  af- 
fairs for  a  few  days  and  devote  their 
time  to  the  worship  of  the  Lord  in  the 
conferences   of   His    Church.     I  feel 
honored  in  being  called  to  speak  to  you 
for  a  short  time  and  to  represent  the 
Liberty  Stake  of  Zion.    Our  stake  wa3 
organized  on  the  26th  day  of  Febru- 
ary, this  year.    It  is  one  of  the  four 
new  stakes  which  formerly  constituted 
the  Salt  Lake  stake.    Our  President, 
Elder  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  is  at  present  on 
a  mission,   presiding  over  the  Swiss 
and  German  mission,  where  he  has  been 
for  the  last  38  months.   During  his  ab- 
sence it  falls  to  the  lot  of  myself  and 
fellow  counselor  to  take  cnarge  of  the 
affairs  in  the  stake,  and  I  can  testify 
to  you  that  while  we  feel  our  unworthi- 
ness  in  our  positions  we  have  experi- 
enced great  joy  in  our  labors  among 
the  people.     Liberty  stake  embraces* 
eight  wards,  located  in  the  southeastern, 
part  of  this  city,  with  a  total  member- 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ship  of  about  5,600.  I  take  pleasure  in 
listening  to  the  reports  of  the  presidents 
of  other  stakes  and  in  reading  in  the 
Deseret  News  reports  of  the  various 
stake  conferences  held  throughout  Zion, 
and  in  doing  so  I  notice  quite  a  differ- 
ence in  our  conditions.  For  instance, 
I  have  read  that  in  some  of  the  stakes  it 
requires  as  much  as  from  three  to  six 
days  for  the  president  to  visit  one  of 
the  wards  in  his  stake.  In  our  stake 
we  can  board  an  electric  car  at  one 
end  of  the  stake,  and  in  less  than  30 
minutes  can  ride  to  the  other  end  of  the 
stake,  making  the  round  trip  for  10 
cents.  If  necessary,  we  can  call  a 
meeting  of  all  the  officers  in  our  stake 
on  30  minutes  notice  and  have  all  the 
brethren  present,  if  they  are  not  absent 
from  the  city.  These  conditions,  I  con- 
sider, are  in  our  favor,  and  on  this  ac- 
count more  may  be  expected  from  us 
than  from  other  stakes. 

I  can  say  nothing  but  good  of  those 
with  whom  we  are  called  to  labor  in  the 
Liberty  stake.  Our  Bishops  and  coun- 
selors are  united  among  themselves, 
and  with  the  presidency,  and  we  feel 
to  sustain  one  another.  Thanks  be  to 
God,  so  far  we  have  been  able  to  work 
in  perfect  harmony.  The  High  Coun- 
cilors, the  Bishops,  the  various  officers 
in  the  Stake,  are  good,  faithful  men. 
The  object  of  dividing  the  large  Salt 
Lake  Stake  was  that  the  people  might 
toe  looked  after  more  thoroughly  than 
was  possible  before,  the  Stake  being  so 
very  large.  We  have  already  seen  the 
advantages  of  this  division.  The  peo- 
ple get  closer  together,  and  the  officers 
can  look  after  them  better  than  was 
possible  when  the  Stake  was  so  large. 
Our  meetings  are  better  attended  also. 
For  example,  at  our  last  monthly 
Priesthood  meeting  we  had  a  larger  at- 
tendance, I  believe,  than  we  used  to 
have  when  all  the  four  Stakes  were  in 
one.  The  advantages  of  this  division 
are  also  apparent  in  other  ways. 

Our  auxiliary  organizations  are  do- 
ing a  great  work  in  assisting  the  Priest- 
hood to  look  after  the  people.  We  have 
endeavored  to  explain  to  the  Saints  the 
importance  of  laboring  with  those  who 
have  grown  weak  in  the  faith,  and  I 


have  pleasure  in  saying  a  good  word 
for  the  Saints  in  this  direction.for  many 
of  them  have  followed  our  advice  and 
are  doing  a  great  deal  of  good  in  this 
way.  Where  they  see  a  young  man  or 
young  woman  who  is  on  dangerous5 
ground,  or  one  who  has  grown  cold 
in  the  faith,  they  have  taken  up  an 
individual  labor  with  them  in  love  and 
kindness,  and  have  endeavored  to  bring 
them  into  line  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints  who  are  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God.  Already  we  can  see 
the  results  of  their  labors,  and  we  re- 
joice therein.  We  feel  that  it  is  the 
mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  la- 
bor not  only  for  the  salvation  of  their 
own  souls,  but  for  the  salvation  of  the 
whole  human  family.  This  was  the 
mission  of  our  Savior.  His  whole  life 
was  devoted  to  the  salvation  of  man- 
kind, and  He  died  for  the  same.  His 
disciples  followed  in  His  footsteps,  and 
they  devoted  the  greater  part  of  their 
lives  in  bringing  salvation  to  the  people, 
and  many  of  them  lost  their  lives  in  this 
service.  The  same  mission  and  duty 
has  been  placed  upon  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  It  was  the  mission  of  our 
great  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  It  has 
been  of  his  successors  up  to  the  pres- 
ent time.  They  have  labored  for  the 
salvation  of  the  whole  human  family. 
Why  is  it  that  this  Church  has  nearly 
two  thousand  Elders  out  today  preach- 
ing the  Gospel?  Because  they  are  la- 
boring for  the  salvation  of  man,  carry- 
ing the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy  unto 
all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues  and  peo- 
ple. Why  is  it  that  we  erect  temples 
in  the  land  of  Zion?  In  order  that  we 
may  labor  for  the  salvation  of  the  dead 
This  is  our  mission, at  home  and  abroad, 
and  we  should  fulfill  this  duty  to  our 
neighbors  and  friends  in  the  various 
wards  and  stakes  where  we  reside.  I 
can  testify  to  you  that  there  is  great 
satisfaction  in  performing  such  labors. 

I"  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God, 
and  not  of  man.  In  our  Stake  we  de- 
sire to  be  united,  and  to  sustain  the 
leading  brethern  of  the  Church,  for  we 
know  that  they  are  men  of  God.  We 
desire  to  lighten  their  burdens  and  to 


ELDER    JOHN    HENRY  SMITH. 


25 


uphold  their  hands  wherever  we  can, 
and  to  accomplish  as  much  good  as  we 
possibly  can,  to  the  honor  and  glory 
of  God  and  for  the  working  out  of  our 
own  salvation.  May  God  bless  us  and 
help  us  to  be  faithful,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

"From  afar,  gracious  Lord,  Thou  hast 
gathered  Thy  flock." 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

The  Saints  should  seek  to  impress  others 
with  the  truth  of  the  Gospel— Obligations 
they  are  under  in  that  regard. 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  the  privilege  of  being  with  you  in 
attendance  upon  this  conference.  The 
condition  of  my  health  prevented  me 
from  being  present  at  the  April  confer- 
ence, and  I  have  not  been  able  of  late 
to  discharge  in  any  great  degree  the 
duties  and  responsibilities  of  the  calling 
under  which  I  labor.  But  I  am  pleased 
to  say  to  you  today  that  my  condition 
is  very  much  improved,  and  I  trust  that 
my  voice  will  be  heard  in  the  various 
stakes  of  Zion  with  the  same  activity 
in  the  immediate  future  as  has  charac- 
terized my  labors  in  the  past. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  spirit  of  the 
conference.  The  considerate  and 
thoughtful  remarks  of  the  Presidency 
yesterday,  bearing  upon  our  duties  and 
obligations:  the  practical  instructions 
that  were  given  yesterday  afternoon  by 
Elder  Lyman;  the  reports  of  our  breth- 
ren who  are  ministering  in  that  field  in 
which  we  are  so  intensely  interested — 
the  work  for  the  dead — all  appealed  to 
me  very  forcibly.  I  have  also  listened 
with  interest  to  the  remarks  made  by 
the  presidents  of  stakes  this  morning, 
and  I  trust  that  their  reports  may  be 
an  inspiration  to  us  who  are  convers- 
'ant  with  the  conditions  of  the  people 
in  the  various  sections  where  we  live. 
I  was  more  than  pleased  with  the  re- 
port of  President  Hinckley.  The  spirit 
of  it  especially  struck  my  heart,  when 
in  speaking  of  the  people  who  lived  in 
his  diocese  he  not  only  remembered  the 
people  of  his  own  faith,  but 
also  those  who  werei  not  of 
his   faith  and  he   spoke  of  them  in 


a  respectful,  considerate  manner  and 
bore  witness  to  their  good  character. 
I  believe  that  a  remark  of  that  kind, 
coming  from  the  lips  of  a  man  of  his 
standing,  will  bear  fruit  in  the  future 
in  the  overthrow  of  animosities  and 
the  awakening  in  men's  minds  of  a 
spirit  of  fairness  and  justice  to  one 
another.  I  believe  that  the  souls  of 
the  thousands  of  people  who  have  made 
their  homes  in  this  inter-mountain  re- 
gion are  as  dear  to  our  Heavenly  Fa- 
ther as  the  souls  of  the  thousands  who 
are  scattered  abroad  and  who  have  not 
been  made  conversant  with  the  work 
that  we  have  to  do.  I  trust  that  some 
remarks,  made  recently  in  one  of  the 
stake  conferences  by  President  Lyman, 
found  lodgment  in  the  hearts  of  those 
who  were  in  attendance  upon  that  ser- 
vice, wherein  he  impressed  upon  the 
minds  of  the  Saints  the  sacredness 
of  their  obligation  to  endeavor 
to  impress  their  neighbors  with 
the  truth  of  the  gospel  they  themselves 
have  received,  and  thus  free  themselves 
from  the  responsibility  of  the  blood  of 
their  fellowmen.  That  obligation  should 
lie  very  near  our  doors,  and  should  be 
discharged  thoughtfully  and  prudently 
by  us.  Not  that  we  should  seek  to  har- 
ass our  neighbors  by  trying  to  force  up- 
on them  our  faith  and  doctrines;  but  in 
our  associations  with  our  fellow-men, 
in  our  business  affairs,  and  in  the  dis- 
charge of  the  varied  requirements  that 
rest  upon  us  all,  we  are  brought  into 
immediate  contact  with  many  men  of 
fairness  and  of  uprightness,  some  of 
whom  perchance  have  no  religious  faith 
while  many  may  be  members  of  the  va- 
rious religious  organizations,  and  it 
rests  with  us  to  discharge  this  obliga- 
tion to  these  neighbors  of  ours.  When 
President  Lyman  sprung  the  question 
as  to  how  far  we  had  gone  in  fulfilling 
this  duty  and  seeking  to  impress  upon 
the  minds  of  our  fellows  the  nature  of 
the  work  so  dear  to  ourselves,  I  was 
led  to  ask  myself  whether  I  had  fairly, 
honestly  and  frankly  discharged  my 
duty  in  this  respect.  "When  President 
Hinckley  spoke  in  such  a  respectful 
manner  of  those  not  of  his  faith  I  was 
led  to  think  that  probably  every  Pres- 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ident  of  a  stake,  every  Bishop  of  a 
ward,  conversant  with  the  condition  of 
the  people  in  their  midst,  could  reit- 
erate his  statement  concerning  their 
neighbors.  I  trust  that  we  will  not  be 
unmindful  of  the  fact  that  some  men 
and  women  in  our  communities  have 
received  the  Gospel  after  living  in  our 
midst.  They  have  watched  the  lives 
of  the  people,  have  become  impressed 
with  the  nature  of  the  work,  and  have 
accepted  of  it.  It  is  probable  that 
sometimes  we  are  too  thoughtless  in  re- 
gard to  our  responsibility  to  these  peo- 
ple. We  mingle  with  them,  week  in 
and  week  out,  transact  business  with 
them,  and  yet  never  presume  to  seek 
to  bring  to  their  understanding  that 
faith  so  near  to  our  own  hearts.  I  be- 
lieve that  in  these  matters  the  possi- 
bilities of  accomplishment  in  the  future 
are  very  great,  if  we  will  but  discharge 
our  obligations  to  these  men  and  wo- 
men who  have  come  here,  without 
doubt,  to  better  their  condition,  and  to 
enjoy  the  privileges  and  blessings  that 
are  vouchsafed  to  us  by  the  liberal  gov- 
ernment under  which  we  live.  One 
President  of  a  stake,  with  his  associ- 
ates, has  recently  been  considering  this 
question  and  weighing  the  possibili- 
ties of  a  missionary  work  that 
shall  be  in  keeping  with  the  best 
interests  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as 
well  as  make  its  impress  upon  our 
brothers  and  sisters  whose  faith  is  not 
as  our  own.  This  can  and  should  be 
done  upon  the  basis  of  frankness  and 
fairness,  with  no  desire  to  crowd  upon 
our  fellonvmen  that  which  is  sacred  to 
us,  but  in  a  way  and  manner  that  shall 
appeal  to  their  thoughtful  considera- 
tion, and  cause  them,  while  weighing 
the  doctrines  as  presented  by  the  re- 
ligious organizations  of  the  worlds  to 
also  consider  and  weigh  the  views  and 
doctrines  as  presented  to  the  human 
family  in  the  mission  and  ministry  of 
the  Prophet  of  God  in  this  last  dispen- 
sation. I  believe  that  there  opens  up 
for  us  a  wonderful  work  in  this  direc- 
tion, to  be  thoughtfully  and  prudently 
done.  I  know  of  no  reason  why  my 
neighbors  who  are  not  of  my  faith  and 
myself  should  be  enemies,  so  long  as  I 


preserve  their  liberties  and  my  own 
justly  and  rightly,  and  am  willing  that 
they  should  'worship  God  according  to 
the  dictates  of  their  own  consciences, 
while  insisting  upon  the  enjoyment  of 
that  right  for  myself.  I  know  of  no 
reason  why  the  men  who  are  united  to- 
gether in  their  citizenship  and  in  the 
upbuilding  of  a  commonwealth  should 
not  be  able  to  associate  together  in 
friendship,  guarding  with  sacredness 
that  which  is  dear  to  us  all,  respectful 
of  one  another's  faith,  courteous  in 
our  treatment  of  one  another's  family, 
and  considerate  in  our  regard  for  every- 
thing that  tends  "to  the  upbuilding  and 
ennobling  of  man. 

The  work  of  the  ministry  that  has 
been  entrusted  to  us  requires  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel  to  every  nation, 
kindred,  tongue,  and  people.  The 
brother  who  preceded  me  has  dis- 
charged that  obligation  in  several  lands 
himself;  and.as  another  of  the  speak- 
ers remarked,  he  had  been  at  work  in 
the  ministry  since  1848.  Another  brother 
made  the  remark  that  he  had  labored 
to  extend  the  work  of  tne  Almighty  in 
a  foreign  land,  and  had  undergone 
hardship  and  trial  in  seeking  to  secure 
to  himself  a  knowledge  of  the  language. 
All  this  is  but  a  part  of  the  fulfillment 
of  that  sacred  obligation  which  was  de- 
clared necessary  in  the  introduction  of 
this  dispensation  of  the  fullness  of 
times,  namely,  that  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  was  to  be  preached  in  all  the 
world,  and  that  a  heavenly  messenger 
would  fly  through  the  midst  of  heaven 
bearing  this  decree.  To  this  end  the 
brethren  who  have  spoken  this 
morning  have  discharged  that  ob- 
ligation. In  many  instances  our 
Elders  have  gone  hungry,  have 
been  banished,  and  have  been  made 
outcasts  in  the  countries  to  which  they 
have  gone  to  discharge  that  most  sacred 
obligation.  They  were  not  enemies  of 
their  fellowmen;  they  were  not  im- 
planting one  theory  that  would  lead  a 
man  to  perpetrate  a  wrong;  their 
warning  voice  was  raised  only  in 
declaration  of  the  primary  principles 
of  the  Gospel  as  enunciated  by  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world  Himself.  Their 


ELDER    JOHN    HENRY  SMITH. 


27 


ministry  was  to  impress  upon  the  minds 
of  men  and  women  who  had  read  the 
Scriptures,  the  sacredness  of  those 
writings,  the  character  of  the  work  laid 
down  in  them,  and  the  necessity  of  the 
human  family  obeying  the  require- 
ments of  heaven,  as  taught  by  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world  to  the  young 
man  who  came  to  him  asking  what  he 
should  do  in  order  to  obtain  eternal 
life.  His  instructions  to  that  young 
man  were  clear  and  explicit:  "Thou 
shalt  do  no  murder,  thou  shalt  not 
steal,  thou  shalt  not  bear  false  wit- 
ness, honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother; 
and,  thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself."  The  burden  of  the  ministry 
of  the  servants  of  God  in  the  day  and 
age  in  which  we  live  has  been  the  ful- 
fillment of  that  requirement.  They 
have  sought  to  lay  the  foundation  of 
the  Gospel  in  the  souls  of  men  upon 
the  basis  presented  by  the  Redeemer  in 
the  cuf^e  of  Nicodemus.  He  pointed 
out  that  the  course  to  pursue  was  to 
enter  in  at  the  door  of  the  Gospel,  be 
baptized  of  the  water  and  of  the  spirit, 
and  walk  in  harmony  with  the  princi- 
ples enunciated  to  the  young  man. 
Those  who  have  addressed  you  during 
this  conference  have  had  part  in  the 
accomplishment  of  that  ministry.  Not 
one  of  these  men  has  ever  counseled  a 
man  to  steal,  or  to  lie,  or  to  bear  false 
witness  against  his  neighbor,  or  to 
violate  the  honor  of  any  man  or  wo- 
man, or  to  take  the  life  of  a  fellow 
creature;  but  each  of  them,  in  the  dis- 
charge of  his  sacred  duty  as  a  servant 
of  God,  has  proclaimed  the  divine  mis- 
sion of  the  prophet  of  this  dispensa- 
tion, the  visitation  of  heavenly  mes- 
sengers, and  the  restoration  of  the 
Gospel  in  its  fullness  and  purity.  Christ 
and  Him  crucified  has  been  the 
theme  dwelt  upon  by  these  Elders,  and 
they  have  gone  forth  in  the  per- 
formance of  this  responsibility 
without  money  and  without  price. 
Not  one  living  can  of  a  truth 
say  that  any  of  these  have  coun- 
seled them  to  violate  the  laws  of 
their  country  and  to  trample  be- 
neath the\ir  feet  the  institutions 
of  the  state;  for  the  articles  of  faith 


of  the  Latter-day  Saints  lay  down  the 
proposition  that  the  members  of  this 
Church  are  to  obey  the  laws  of  the 
country  in  which  they  live,  to  maintain 
the  principles  of  liberty  and  justice,  and 
to  deal  rightly  and  properly  with  their 
fellowmen. 

Standing  before  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  as  one  of  the  witnesses  of 
the  mission  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  and  of  the  restored  truths  of  the 
Gospel  given  in  the  day  and  age  in 
which  we  live,  I  bear  this  record  in 
your  presence  today.  I  have  grown 
from  childhood  to  manhood  in 'connec- 
tion with  these  leading  men  of  the 
Church  of  Christ.  I  knew  Brigham 
Young  as  intimately  as  a  boy  could 
know  his  father.  I  knew  John  Taylor, 
Wilford  Woodruff.  Lorenzo  Snow,  in 
like  manner.  I  have  been  as  intimate 
with  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  as 
kinsman  could  be.  Standing  here 
as  a  witness  before  God  today,  I  sol- 
emnly declare  that  I  have  never  re- 
ceived one  item  of  instruction  from 
these  men  and  from  the  Council  of  the 
Apostles— those  of  the  old  school  as  well 
as  those  of  the  present  school— that  did 
not  breathe  words  of  life,  words  of  en- 
couragement, words  of  loyalty  and  de- 
votion to  every  element  of  true  man- 
hood. Those  who  have  violated  the 
rules  of  morality  have  turned  back  up- 
on the  instructions  of  the  authorities 
of  the  Church  of  Christ.  Those  who 
have  stolen  have  disobeyed  the  instruc- 
tions of  their  associates.  And  when  I 
speak  of  these  men  as  the  leaders  of 
this  Church,  I  would  speak  the  same  of 
these  Presidents  of  stakes  with  whom 
I  have  been  conversant,  and  whom  God 
has  blessed  and  made  great  in  the  ac- 
complishment of  good.  The  require- 
ment laid  at  our  door  is  that  he  who  is 
warned,  let  him  warn  his  neighbor.  It 
is  upon  us  to  fulfill  that  duty,  to  dis- 
charge that  obligation,  and  to  acquit 
ourselves  fully  of  its  responsibilities.  I 
trust  that  the  goodly  words  spoken  by 
the  brethren  as  affecting  you  who  are 
Saints  shall  make  its  impress  upon 
those  who  are  not  united  with  you  in  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth,  but  to  whom 
the  seeds  of  the  truth  must  be  carried 


28 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


and  they  utilize  their  agency  to  accept 
or  reject  it. 

The  Gospel  is  true.  The  angel  of  God 
spoken  of  by  the  Prophet  of  old  has 
flown  through  the  midst  of  heaven, 
"having  the  everlastingGospel  to  preach 
to  them  that  dwell  upon  the  earth,  to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  peo- 
ple." Upon  the  head  of  this  man  (point- 
ing to  President  Smith)  and  his  asso- 
ciates today  lies  the  responsibility  of 
seeing  to  it  that  every  child  of  our 
Father  within  reach  shall  hear  that 
witness  and  accent  or  reject  it.  My 
witness  before  you  is  that  God  has 
spoken,  that  His  truth  is  established, 
and  that  His  Church  is  in  the  Avorld. 
God,  the  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ  have  spoken  to  man  in  this  dis- 
pensation. The  key  has  been  turned, 
and  the  work  is  in  motion.  It  lies  at 
our  door  to  see  to  it  that  every  child 
of  our  Father  shall  hear  that  warning 
voice,  if  within  our  power.  While  we 
discharge  this  obligation,  we  want  to 
discharge  our  obligations  of  citizen- 
ship in  justice  and  right,  standing  for 
the  principles  of  liberty,  in  the  interest 
of  every  other  mortal  as  well  as  our- 
selves; for  if  we  should  seek  to  take 
away  the  liberties  of  any  man,  it  would 
only  result  in  the  destruction  of  our 
own  liberties.  Those  who  plot  and 
scheme  for  the  overthrow  and  destruc- 
tion of  your  liberty  and  mine  are  not 
alone  the  enemies  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  they  are  the  enemies  of  lib- 
erty, the  enemies  of  God  the  Father, 
the  enemies  of  justice  and  mercy,  and 
in  the  due  time  of  the  Lord,  it  will  come 
their  turn  to  pay  the  penalty  of  out- 
raged mercy  and  justice. 

May  God  bless  you  with  His  Spirit. 
May  the  feelings  and  sentiments  of  this 
conference  go  forth  to  the  world,  show- 
ing that  here  are  indeed  true  Chris- 
tians, who  love  Christ  and  the  princi- 
ples of  righteousnef,^,  and  who  pro- 
pose to  devote  themselves  to  the  ac- 
complishment of  our  Father's  purpose 
and  to  the  blessing  of  His  children  to 
the  utmost  limit.  God  bless  the  good 
and  noble  among  mankind.  May  He 
remember  the  statesmen  of  our  land, 
that  they  may  fulfill  their  destinies  in 


righteousness,  and  that  'justice  may 
characterize  the  land.  God  bless  the 
people  in  this  land  who  stand  by  the 
principles  enunciated  by  the  fathers  of 
the  republic,  so  that  they  may  never 
be  overthrown,  but  that  beneath  the 
flag  and  under  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  the  right  of  conscience 
shall  never  be  infringed,  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 
Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with 
Jehovah. 

Jesus   --minted   that   "Prophet  and 
Seer," 

Blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation; 
Kings  shall  extol  him  and  nations 
revere. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Ed- 
win Woolley,  president  of  Kanab  stake. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn: 

"Softly  beams  the  sacred  dawning 
Of  the  great  Millennial  morn, 

And  to  Saints  gives  welcome  warning 
That  the  day  is  hasting  on." 

Opening  prayer  by  Elder  Charles  F. 
Middleton,  of  Weber  stake. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

"Lord  thou  wilt  hear  me  when  I  pray! 

I  am  forever  thine! 
I  fear  before  Thee  all  the  day, 

Oh,  may  I  never  sin." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  H.  GRANT, 
(President  of  Davis  Stake.) 
I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  having  the  privilege  of  reporting  the 
Davis  Stake  of  Zion.  I  love  the  people 
of  that  stake,  because  of  their  faith- 
fulness. We  have  many  good  people 
there,  and  very  few  that  are  bad.  There 
are  about  7,000  people  in  the  stake.  Most 
of  them  are  Latter-day  Saints,  some  of 
them  are  "Mormons,"  and  some  are 
non-"Mormons."  I  rejoice  to  say,  how- 
ever, that  many  of  those  who  are  not 
Latter-day  Saints  are  among  our  best 
citizens.  We  mingle  together,  and  »we 
have  the  sympathy  largely  of  those  who 
are  not  of  us.  We  are  endeavoring,  by 
the  help  of  the  Lord,  to  keep  this  good 
feeling;  and  if  those  that  are  older  do 
not  feel  inclined  to  accept  the  Gospel, 


ELDER  J.  G. 

perchance  many  of  their  sons  and 
daughters  will  do  so,  in  fact,  they  are 
doing  so.  In  Davis  stake  we  feel  that 
we  must  have  the  hearts  of  those  that 
live  among  us  in  order  to  get  them  to 
join  with  us,  the  same  as  we  find  in 
the  missions  abroad.  We  rejoice  that 
we  have  this  good  feeling  and  this  good 
class  of  people  living  with  us. 

The  Davis  Stake  of  Zlon  was  reor- 
ganized a  couple  of  weeks  ago,  with 
myself  and  Elders  James  A.  Eldredge 
and  Jesse  M.  Smith  as  the  presidency  of 
the  stake.  We  feel  very  weak  in  tak- 
ing the  places  of  those  that  presided 
over  the  stake  before  us,  as  we  realize 
that  some  of  the  best  men  that  ever 
lived  on  the  earth,  among  them  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  himself,  have 
presided  over  that  stake.  We  feel  that 
nothing  but  the  direction  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  can  qualify  us  to  t  o  forth 
and  do  anywhere  near  as  well  as  our 
predecessors.  But  we  know  that  the 
work  of  God  is  true.  We  have  proved 
that  in  going  to  Him  for  help  and  sup- 
port He  will  not  desert  us,  and  we  re- 
joice in  this.  I  am  thankful  for  the 
help  that  I  have  in  our  High  Council. 
It  is  a  strong  body  of  men — men  who 
are  willing  to  work  in  any  capacity, 
and  who  labor  particularly  as  home 
missionaries  and  as  peacemakers  in  the 
stake.  They  have  been  so  successful 
that  for  three  or  four  years  at  a  time, 
there  has  been  no  necessity  for  a  High 
Council  trial.  There  are  18  Patriarchs 
in  the  stake.  Most  of  these  men  are 
doing  a  great  deal  of  good  in  blessing 
the  people,  holding  cottage  meetings, 
dedicating  the  home's  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  warming  up  the  hearts  of 
those  that  have  grown  cold,  as  well 
as  teaching  the  Gospel  to  those  who 
have  not  yet  accepted  it.  Our  organi- 
zations are  complete,  with  strong  work- 
ers at  their  head.  The  Lord  is  bless- 
ing us  in  our  stake,  and  we  rejoice  in  it. 
We  feel  to  sustain  and  hold  up  the 
hands  of  the  Prophet  of  God,  with  his 
counselors  and  the  Apostles,  who  have 
been  called  to  lead  and  direct  the  af- 
fairs of  the  work  of  the  Lord  upon  the 
earth,  and  I  pray  that  this  spirit  may 
continue  with  us.    I  ask  for  your  faith 


McQUARRIE,  29 

and  prayers,  that  I  may  be  enabled  to 
accomplish  what  is  required  of  me.  I 
rejoice  in  my  heart  that  I  am  able  to  be 
here,  for  I  have  been  in  very  poor 
health  during  the  last  year.  The  Lord 
has  blessed  me,  however,  with  one  ot 
His  great  gifts — to  have  faith  in  the 
promises  made  to  me  through  His  ser- 
vants. I  pray  that  God  will  continue  to 
bless  and  to  guide  us  into  all  truth, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  G.  McQUARRIE 

(President  of  Eastern  States  Mission.) 

There  are  times,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  when  we  feel  that  we  are  sep- 
arate, single  individuals  and  when  we 
feel  to  draw  down  the  shades  and  close 
the  doors  of  our  homes.  There  are  other 
times  when  either  a  common  sorrow 
01  a  common  joy  gives  us  the  desire 
to  throw  up  the  blinds,  to  open  the 
dcors,  and  to  invite  all  our  brothers  and 
sisters  to  look  into  the  light  and  com- 
fort of  our  homes.  So,  too,  there  are 
times  when  we  feel  a  desire  to  throw 
our  souls  open,  that  our  friends  and  our 
brothers  and  sisters  may  look  in  and 
see  the  warmth,  the  love  and 
the  joy  that  we  feel  for  them.  That 
is  my  feeling  today.  I  wish  I  could 
throw  my  soul  open  to  you,  that  you 
might  see  the  love  and  the  joy  which  I 
have  in  associating  with  my  brothers 
and  sisters  after  an  absence  of  six 
months.  It  is  such  a  pleasure  for  us 
to  get  back  again  among  the  home- 
guard,  and  to  meet  with  our  friends  in 
Zion.  One  of  the  greatest  joys  that  I 
have  had,  perhaps  the  greatest  joy  that 
the  president  of  a  mission  feels  is  in 
meeting  the  mothers  and  the  fathers  of 
the  noble  sons  or  daughters  that  may 
be  laboring  under  our  guidance.  To- 
day, as  I  looked  into  the  eyes  of  moth- 
ers lit  up  with  pride  when  I  told  them 
of  the  good  works  and  noble  deeds  of 
their  sons,  and  watched  their  eyes  fill 
with  tears  and  their  faces  quiver  with 
emotion,  I  thought  how  grand  it  is  to 
feel  that  warm,  true,  godlike  love  of  a 
mother.  I  will  not  be  able  to  meet  all 
the  mothers  and  fathers  of  the  noble 
boys  that  I  have  the  honor  to  preside 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


over,  but  I  want  to  say  to  you  that 
they  are  all  doing  you  honor  where  they 
are  laboring,  and  without  an  exception, 
I  believe,  are  giving  God  the  very  best 
that  is  in  them;  and  that  is  all  anyone 
can  do. 

In  mission  work,  like  other  labors, 
there  seems  to  be  a  kind  of  ebb  and 
flow.  Some  seasons  we  reap  a  good 
harvest,  while  others  we  do  not  get  very 
much  fruit  from  our  labors.  Last  year 
was  a  very  fruitful  one.  We  gathered 
in  the  harvest.  This  year  the  result? 
in  the  Eastern  States  Mission,  so  far 
as  baptisms  are  concerned,  are  not  so 
encouraging.  Still  we  have  had  enough 
success  to  keep  us  from  being  discour- 
aged, and  enough  opposition  to  keep 
us  stirred  up.  During  the  early  part 
of  the  season,  there  was  quite 
a  severe  storm  which  seemed  to  break 
with  rather  terrific  force  over  the 
Eastern  States  mission,  and  while  it 
did  not  shake  any  of  those  who  were 
members  of  the  Church,  it  seemed  to 
blight  some  tender  plants  among  those 
who  were  just  commencing  to  investi- 
gate the  Gospel,  and  of  course  those 
plants  have  not  borne  us  any  fruit. 
But  we  feel  encouraged  in  our  labors. 
Perhaps  you  have  noticed  in  the  papers 
the  account  of  the  re-baptism  of  John 
Rigdon,  the  or.ly  surviving  son  of  Sid- 
ney Rigdon,  who  was  a  counselor  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Sixty-six 
years  ago,  I  believe,  John  Rigdon  was 
baptized  by  Hyrum  Smith  in  the  Mis- 
sissippi river,  and  I  think  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  confirmed  him  a  member 
of  the  Church.  He  was  a  bright,  bril- 
liant, promising  youth,  and  I  can  not 
help  but  think  of  what  he  might  have 
accomplished,  where  he  might  have 
stood  in  the  councils  of  the  Church, 
andi  how  far  his  influence  might  have 
extended,  if  he  had  exerted  all  his  en- 
ergy in  trying  to  establish  the  princi- 
ples which  God  had  revealed  from 
heaven,  rather  than  directing  his  mind 
toward  the  weaknesses  of  men.  I  feel 
grateful  that  the  sons  and  daughters 
of  the  first  families  of  the  Church  are 
gradually  being  gathered  into  the  fold 
again.  It  is  also  a  striking  testimony 
to  me,  as  it  may  be  to  others,  when  we 


witness  such  events,  because  men  like 
Sidney  Rigdon  knew  whether  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  or  not.  There  was 
no  guess  work  upon  their  part.  Joseph 
testified  that  he  and  Sidney  Rigdon 
saw  Jesus  Christ  in  the  Kirtland  Tem- 
ple, and  he  was  in  a  position  to  abso- 
lutely know  whether  he  had  witnessed 
this  manifestation,  and  whether 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God  or 
not.  And  so,  when  the  effort  of  his  life 
was  over,  when  he  was  about  to  pass 
into  eternity,  his  son  approached  him 
and  asked  him  what  position  he  should 
take  in  reference  to  Joseph  Smith — 
whether  he  was  a  prophet  and  whether 
the  Book  of  Mormon  came  as  he  said 
it  did.  With  tears  streaming  down  his 
cheeks,  Sidney  Rigdon  testified  that 
the  Book  of  Mormon  was  true,  that  Jo- 
seph Smith  was  a  pi-ophet  of  God,  and 
that  the  world  would  yet  know  it. 
That  testimony  clung  to  his  son,  and, 
ringing  in  his  ears,  made  him  afraid  to 
die  before  being  reconciled  to  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  Oliver  Cowdery  was  also  in  a 
position  to  know  absolutely  whether 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God  or 
not,  and  he,  too,  before  he  passed  away, 
seemed  anxious  to  come  in  again  at  the 
door  and  regain  his  fellowship  in  the 
Church.  This  should  be  a  witness 
to  us,  and  especially  to  the  young,  of 
the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel.  Not 
only  so,  but  it  should  be  a  warning  also 
to  the  bright  sons  and  daughters  of 
La>tter-day  Saints,  that  they  should  not 
waste  their  energy  in  looking  for  and 
criticising  the  weaknesses  of  some  frail 
individuals  who  may  be  placed  in  re- 
sponsible positions,  but  that  they 
should  rather  exert  their  energies  in 
trying  to  establish  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel,  which  have  been  revealed  for 
the  very  purpose  of  strengthening  frail 
humanity.  We  are  all  weak,  but  the 
Gospel  is  true,  and  it  will  strengthen 
those  who  live  it. 

I  feel  not  only  to  report  the  condi- 
tion of  the  Elders  who  are  laboring  un- 
der my  direction,  but  also  some  of  those 
who  come  to  study  and  to  gain  techni- 
cal and  professional  knowledge.  I  am 
glad  to  say  that  where  they  have  the 


ELDER    JAMES    G.  DUFFIN, 


31 


•opportunity  to  attend  our  meetings 
the  great  majority  of  them  are  trying 
to  keep  in  touch  with  the  Saints  and 
with  the  Church,  and  in  many  instances 
they  are  reflecting  credit  upon  the  peo- 
ple of  God  and  upon  the  community 
that  is  responsible  for  their  training. 
In  every  instance  where  they  try  to  live 
the  Gospel  and  are  not  ashamed  of 
the  truth,  they  not  only  honor  their 
people,  but  they  honor  themselves.  I 
was  glad  to  note  that  in  the  graduating 
class  of  the  College  of  Physicians  and 
Surgeons  at  Baltimore,  where  four  gold 
medals  were  given,  two  of  them  went 
to  Utah  boys,  and  one  of  these  was  the 
first  medal;  and  a  good  minister  had 
the  honor  of  reading  out  their  names 
and  awarding  these  prizes  to  our  Utah 
boys.  Another  instance  I  will  take 
pleasure  in  mentioning.  In  the  gradu- 
ating class  from  the  law  school  in 
Washington  two  years  ago,  there  was 
■one  young  "Mormon"  Elder  who  had 
preached  the  Gospel,  and  who  had 
fainted  on  the  streets  from  exhaustion 
and  hunger  while  he  was  trying  to  pro- 
claim these  truths  to  the  people.  This 
"Mormon"  Elder,  who  was  competing  in 
a.  class  with  the  brightest  and  smartest 
sons  of  America,  was  elected  president 
•of  his  class  by  acclamation— an  honor 
perhaps  that  was  never  given  to  anyone 
before  in  that  school. 

I  desire,  in  conclusion,  to  bear  my  tes- 
timony to  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gos- 
pel. I  testify  that  all  those  who  will 
incorporate  its  principles  in  their  lives 
and  live  them  will  know  they  are  true. 
The  Eastern  States  mission  is  in  a 
fairly  good  condition.  "We  are  con- 
stantly growing  a  little,  and  some  of 
our  members  are  gathering  to  Zion.  I 
am  proud  of  all  those  that  I  have  had 
the  pleasure  of  meeting  since  I  came 
here.  I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  God 
may  rest  upon  Zion,  upon  those  who 
preside  in  the  Church,  and  upon  all  the 
Elders  who  are  laboring  abroad,  with 
those  who  preside  over  them,  and  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  G.  DUFFIN. 

(President  of  Central  States  Mission.) 

I  feel  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,   for   the   privilege   of  meeting 


with  you  in  this  conference.   I  have  felt 
greatly  blessed  in  listening  to  the  in- 
structions of  our  brethren  and  to  the 
reports  that  have  been  given,  as  well  as 
•the   beautiful   testimonies   that  have 
been  borne  of  the  goodness  of  our  Fa- 
ther in  heaven  to  His  children  here  up- 
on this  earth.    "We  feel  blessed  in  our 
labors  in  the  Central  States  mission, 
That  mission  embraces  the  states  of 
Kansas  and  Missouri,  and  all  of  the 
states  south  of  them  to  the    Gulf  of 
Mexico.   The  people  who  reside  in  those 
states  are,  as  a  rule,  broad  and  liberal, 
warm  hearted,  and  they  accord  to  our 
Elders  many  privileges  that  are  neces- 
sary for  them  to  have  in  order  to  car- 
ry -on  the  work  of  the  Lord.    In  the. 
cities  of  St.  Louis,  Kansas,  St.  Joseph, 
and  many  other  cities  in  that  mission, 
the  men  who  have  been  elected  to  office 
accord  to  our  Elders  the  same  privi- 
leges that  are  enjoyed  by  ministers  of 
other  religious  denominations;  and  in 
some  cities,  where  the  ordinances  are 
against    street    preaching,    we  have 
found,  in  going  to  the  mayor  and  chief 
of  police,  that  though  it  was  neces- 
sary for  them  to  deny  us  the  privileges 
we  asked  for  because  of  these  ordin- 
ances, they  have  treated  us  most  cour- 
teously.    The   governors   of   some  of 
these  states  whom  I  have  met  have 
excellent     ideas     of    the  Latter-day 
Saints,  of  whom  they  speak  well,  and 
they  admire  the  courage  that  this  peo- 
ple has  manifested  in  the  development 
of  the  great  arid  west.    The  Elders  in 
that  mission  travel,  as  a  rule,  without 
purse  or  scrip,  following  the  revelation 
of  the  Lord  given  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith;  and  it  is  not  a  common 
thing  for  our  Elders  to  go  hungry  or 
thirsty,  nor  to  sleep  out  of  doors,  but 
their  wants  are  supplied  by  the  good 
people  of  those  states.    I  want  to  say 
too,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  all 
of  the  ministers  who  are  in  that  mis- 
sion are  not  bitter  opponents  of  the 
Latter-day  Saint  Elders.    I  have  met 
a  number  of  broad-minded,  fair  men 
who  wear  the  cloth.   They  have  been  at 
our  conferences  at  some  places,  and  we 
have  given  them  the  privilege  of  speak- 
ing, and  they  have  spoken  good  words 
concerning  the  Mormon  people.    On  one 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


occasion  a  very  prominent  minister  ad- 
vised the  people  to  open  their  doors  to 
Mormon  Elders.  Now  I  feel  that 
it  is  much  better  for  us  to 
look  at  the  good  in  men,  than  to  always 
be  seeking  for  something  that  is  not 
good.  I  believe  it  is  better  to  speak  of 
that  which  is  uplifting  in  our  fellows, 
than  of  the  little  weaknesses  that  we 
all  give  way  to  at  times.  I  am  one  of 
those  who  believe  that  the  world  is  get- 
ting better.  I  do  not  believe  for  one 
moment  that  this  work  which  our 
Father  in  heaven  has  established  is  a 
failure,  and  if  you  could  convince  me 
that  the  world  is  not  getting  better,  I 
should  be  apt  to  think  that  the  work  of 
the  Lord  was  a  failure.  I  do  not  mean  to 
say^  but  what  the  wicked  are  getting 
more  wicked,  because  I  believe  that  to 
be  true;  but  in  a  general  way  I  have 
x:eached  the  conclusion,  from  seven 
years'  experience  as  a  missionary,  that 
the  effect  of  the  teachings  of  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord,  the  distribution  of 
millions  of  books  and  pamphlets  treat- 
ing upon  the  principles  of  eternal  life, 
the  labors  of  your  sons  and  daughters 
in  the  homes  of  the  people,  are  all 
having  their  effect  to  plant  the  prin- 
ciples of  truth  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people,  and  to  turn  mankind  unto  works 
of  righteousness.  More  than  once  in 
my  experience  I  have  had  great,  strong 
men  come  to  me  and  tell  me  of  their 
past  lives,  and  take  counsel  from  me. 
I  have  seen  those  men  break  down  and 
cry  like  children.  Then  I  have  followed 
the  course  of  those  men,  and  though 
they  did  not  unite  themselves  with  this 
Church,  I  have  observed  that  their  lives 
have  been  purer  and  better  in  every 
way  than  they  were  before.  In  yeavs 
past,  when  writers  for  papers  and  mag- 
azines have  described  the  "Mormon" 
Elder,  they  have  generally  described 
him  as  a  man  with  lor.T  hair,  of  un- 
couth appearance,  uneducated,  ignor- 
ant, and  rough  in  his  address.  I  am 
pleased  to  learn  that  this  is  changing. 
A  number  of  papers  that  I  have  seen 
within  the  last  few  years  have  de- 
scribed the  "Mormon"  Elders  as  well 
educated,  of  pleasing  address,  bright 
and  intellectual  young  men.    And  when 


I  have  seen  these  testimonies  con- 
cerning your  boys  who  so  out  into  the 
world,  I  have  thought  that  even  the 
enemies  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  have 
borne  witness,  though  unwittingly,  to 
the  power  that  there  is  in  this  Gospel 
for  the  uplifting  of  mankind. 

The  headquarters  of  the  Central 
States  mission  are  in  Kansas  City.  That 
city  is  located  in  Jackson  county,  Mo. — 
the  land  that  we  have  looked  forward 
to  all  our  days  as  the  place 
which  the  covenant  children  of 
our  Father  in  heaven  should  re- 
deem; a  spot  that  is  sacred  to  all 
Latter-day  Saints.  Let  me  say  to 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
people  of  that  country  are  changing 
very  agreeably  in  their  sentiments 
tcward  this  work  and  people.  Prominent 
men  of  the  State  of  Missouri  would 
welcome  the  Latter-day  Saints  if  they 
should  go  back  there  today,  and  in  my 
opinion  it  will  not  be  a  great  many 
years  until  the  work  of  our  Father  in 
heaven  will  open  up  in  that  land  and 
the  way  be  prepared  for  the  building  of 
that  beautiful  temple  and  for  the  re- 
demption of  that  land,  which  our 
Father  has  said  should  be  redeemed  by 
His  people  through  purchase.  In 
thinking  over  the  preparation  that  is 
essential  to  be  made  for  that  great 
work,  I  have  wondered  if  we  were  pre- 
paring ourselves  individually  to  do 
something  toward  it.  What  is  the 
preparation  that  is  essential?  There 
is  a  revelation  contained  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  in  Section  105,  and 
in  tha-t  the  Lord  gives  the  information 
that  His  children  who  will  engage  in 
that  work  must  learn  to  live  the  laws 
of  the  celestial  kingdom.  One  of  the 
laws  of  the  celestial  kingdom  is  to  be 
honest  and  true  with  our  fellows,  to  be 
honorable  in  all  our  dealings  and  as- 
sociations, and  to  have  our  hearts  de- 
voted to  eternal  principles.  T  take  it 
that  a  man  or  a  woman  who  is  not  in 
that  condition,  is  not  very  well  pre- 
pared to  assist  in  the  establishment  of 
the  eternal  principles  of  righteousness 
in  a  part  o£  the  land  where  Satan  has 
been  determined  that  the  work  of  God 
should  not  be  performed. 


ELDER  JOSEPH   E.  ROBINSON, 


83 


I  have  advised  our  young  men  in  that 
mission  to  give  some  attention  to  the 
temporal  conditions  that  surround 
them  in  their  missionary  labors,  to  visit 
the  factories  and  the  industrial  institu- 
tions that  are  in  the  way  of  their  trav- 
els, to  study  the  farming-  interests,  and 
to  give  attention  to  the  growth  of  the 
country  generally,  so  that  when  they 
return  to  their  homes  they  may  not 
only  show  themselves  as  strong  spirit- 
ual characters,  but  they  will  also  have 
ideas  that  can  be  applied  in  a  temporal 
way  for  the  benefit  of  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  Since  I  have  been  here  on  this 
visit,  I  have  been  riding  out  a  little 
over  the  country  in  the  Utah  Stake  of 
Zion,  and  I  have  become  more  fully 
convinced  than  ever  that  this  is  an  es- 
sential part  of  our  work;  for  on  every 
hand  I  see  opportunities  for  industrial 
development  that  are  lying  dormart. 
I  see  waste  upon  the  farms  of  the  peo- 
ple; I  see  the  fruit  going  to  waste 
by  the  thousands  of  bushels,  while  we 
are  importing  into  this  State  tens  o;' 
thousands  of  dollars  worth  of  canned 
goods.  On  a  farm  that  I  arranged  for 
the  purchase  of  the  other  day,  I  saw 
upwards  of  two  thousand  bushels  of 
peaches  going  to  waste,  and  I  thought 
then,  if  our  brethren  had  united  and 
expended  a  little  means,  all  that  could 
have  been  saved,  and  employment  could 
have  been  given  to  many  of  our  young 
men  and  women,  which  would  have 
helped  them  very  materially  in  secur- 
ing the  means  necessary  to  enabl" 
them  to  attend  one  of  our  great  schools 
in  the  State  during  the  coming  winter. 
I  cannot  help  it,  brethren  and  sisters, 
if  my  mind  runs  upon  temporal  as  well 
as  spiritual  things,  for  I  believe  that 
both  are  essential.  And  so  we  are 
striving  to  direct  the  minds  of  our 
boys  in  the  mission  field  along  these 
lines,  though  not  by  any  means  neglect- 
ing the  spiritual  things  of  the  kingdom. 
We  advise  them  to  observe,  and  to 
study,  so  that  when  they  come  home 
they  may  have  some  ideas  that  can  be 
applied  practically  for  the  good  of 
their  brothers  and  sisters. 

Now,  may  the  Lord  bless  you.  May 
His  spirit  be  with  you  forever.    I  know 


that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  1 
know  that  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the 
world.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
raised  up  by  our  Father  in  heaven  to 
establish  this  work  upon  the  earth  in 
the  latter  da5rs.  This  is  my  testimony 
to  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  our  Lord. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 

(President  of  California  Mission.) 

While  I  speak  to  you,,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  I  desire  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  and  I  ask  that  you  will  assist 
me  by  your  prayers  of  faith;  for  al- 
though I  know  I  am  in  the  house  of 
my  friends,  and  that  here  my  kindred 
dwell,  still  there  is  greater  fear  in  ad- 
dressing you  than  there  would  be  if  I 
were  called  upon  to  speak  to  the  people 
of  the  world.  I  sense  the  fact  that  we 
have  a  message  to  convey  to  them, 
which  is  new  to  them.  We  oan  teach 
them  some  of  the  simple  things  per- 
taining to  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation, 
which  our  children  here  have  heard 
from  the  lips  of  their  fathers  and 
mothers,  as  well  as  from  the  organiza- 
tions which  are  helps  of  government  in 
Israel.  Therefore,  I  desire  that  you 
will  pray  for  me  so  that  I  may 
be  strengthened  by  the  Spirit  of  God 
to  speak  of  those  things  that  will  be  of 
interest  and  of  benefit. 

The  testimony  of  my  brethren  in  re- 
gard to  missionary  work  is  much  the 
same  as  I  would  give.  I  love  my  asso- 
ciates and  companions.  I  greet  the  fa- 
thers and  mothers  of  the  Elders  in  our 
mission,  and  I  assure  you*  that  as  the 
Lord  gives  us  strength  and  life,  and 
keeps  us  humble,  we  are  striving  to  up- 
hold the  principles  that  you  have  in- 
culcated in  our  minds.  For  I  want  to 
tell  you  mothers  that  despite  the  learn- 
ing that  your  sons  have  received  in 
schools,  in  religion  classes  and  in  the 
higher  institutions  of  our  State,  the 
teachings  of  the  mothers  shine  out  be- 
hind it  all,  just  as  does  the  name  of  the 
great  architect  of  the  mighty  tower 
which  Ptolemy  Philadelphus  erected  to 
his  memory.  You  may  remember  that 
this  great  king  had  thought  to  perpetu- 
ate his  name  by  erecting  what  was  once 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


one  of  the  wonders  of  the  world,  and 
in  order  that  he  should  not  be  for- 
gotten.he  ordered  that  written  high  up- 
on its  face,  should  be  his  name;  and  by 
the  lights  at  the  top  of  this  tower  the 
mariners  at  sea  and  in  the  delta  of  the 
Nile  were  guided  at  night.  His  name, 
however,  was  inscribed  in  plaster,  and 
in  time  it  wore  away,  and  the  name  of 
Sostratus,  the  Greek,  shone  out  as  the 
architect  and  the  builder  of  that  great 
pile.  And  so  in  the  inner  life,  and  in 
the  labors  and  the  devotion  of  the  El- 
ders in  the  missionary  field,  shine  out 
the  teachings  of  the  mother.  They 
breathe  anew  the  prayers  they  have 
learned  at  mother's  knee;  they  live  for 
the  love  of  mother.  Men  have  come  to 
me  in  tears  and  have  told  me  how  in 
times  of  trial,  when  the  tempter 
would  have  beguiled  them,  and 
they  would  have  listened  to  his  voice, 
and  have  departed  perhaps  from  the 
path  of  rectitude,  the  face  and  the 
prayers  of  mother  have  arisen  before 
them  and  they  could  not  do  it.  I  want 
you  mothers  in  Israel  to  know  that  I 
feel  this  way,  so  far  as  the  teaching? 
you  have  given  your  sons  are  concerned. 

Speaking  of  material  things,  it  is  not 
long  since  that  a  gentleman  called  at 
our  office  and  asked  for  the  president  of 
the  mission.  When  he  found  who  it  was 
it  rather  astonished  him  to  see  such  a 
boy,  and  he  wanted  to  know  if  I  was 
sure  of  the  matter.  He  then  proceeded 
to  take  off  a  great  muffler  and  disclosed 
the  uniform  of  a  Catholic  priest.  He 
said  to  me:  "Mr.  Robinson,  I  am  a 
Catholic  priest,  but  I  have  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  no  man  can  live  a  cor- 
rect life  in  celibacy.  I  am  desirous  of 
taking  to  myself  a  wife  and  answering 
the  ends  of  my  creation  by  raising  a 
family.  I  know  nothing  of  your  re- 
ligion except  that  your  people  are  the 
most  successful  colonizers  in  the  world; 
that  you  are  a  home-building  and  a 
home-loving  people;  that  the  system  of 
economics  which  has  prevailed 
among  your  people,  the  plans 
laid  out  by  your  founders  in 
making  settlements  and  bringing  the 
people  together,  has  brought  to  the 
smaller  hamlets  many  of  the  privileges 


of  city  life  in  the  way  of  drama,  music 
and  art,  and  that  nausteology  or  home- 
sickness is  hardly  known  among  them. 
I  am  desirous  to  know  what  opportu- 
nity there  would  be  for  me  to  get  a 
home  among  your  Saints."    I  assured 
him  that  he  could  not  expect  to  gain  a 
living  or  to  build  a  home  among  us 
without  effort  and  labor;  that  there  was 
no  paid  ministry  with  us,  and  that  he 
could  not  receive  a  salary  for  teaching 
and  preaching,  as  he  was  receiving  at 
that  time.    He  replied  that  this  would 
not  deter  him  from  the  effort.   The  cru- 
cial  point   with   him,    however,  was 
whether  we  believed  that  Jesus  Christ 
was  the  Son  of  God  or  not;  and  When  I 
told  him  that  we  most  assuredly  did, 
and  that  we  believed    what  the  Scrip- 
tures said,  that  there  is  no  name  given 
under  heaven  by  which  mankind  can  be 
saved  except  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
he  remarked,  "Well,  I  presume  that  in 
a  sense  we  are  all  sons  of  God,  but  I 
do  not  believe  that  Jesus  the  Christ 
was  any  more  or  less  than  the  son  of 
Joseph."    And  yet  he  was  a  teacher  of 
Christianity!    I  have  been  asked  three 
other  times  in  my  missionary  experi- 
ence, whether  we,  as  a  people,  believed 
in  Jesus  the  Christ — once  by  a  sprig  of 
nobility  from  England,  and  twice  by 
other  travelers — and  my  first  thought 
was,  how  useless  it  is  to  work  against 
such  lack  of  understanding  upon  the 
part  of  the  people.    Then,  I  thought, 
why  the  very  fact  that  they  know  so 
little  of  us  and  of  our  belief  makes 
it  all  the  more  necessary  for    us  to 
preach  to  them  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  the 
Christ;  to  let  them  know  that  God  has 
spoken   from   the   heavens;    that  His 
Church,  with  all  its  gifts  and  powers, 
its  Priesthood  and  authority,  has  been 
established  on  the  earth  for  the  salva- 
tion of  men;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet   of   God;    that   Prophets  and 
Revelators  guide  the  Church  today,  and 
that  the  destiny  of  the  Church  of  Christ 
is  assured.    For  I  know,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  men  of  God,  men  who 
are  led  by  His  Spirit,  are  at  the  helm, 
and  that  they  will  guide  most  success- 
fully this  work  in  the.  last  days  for  the 
uplifting  of  humanity,  until  all  nations 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


35 


shall  have  heard  the  sound  of  the  Gos- 
pel, and  until  every  knee  shall  bow  and 
every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ  to  the  glory  of  God  the  Father. 
I  know,  not  only  by  what  I  have  seen 
and  read  of  the  fulfillment  of  prophecy, 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet,  but 
by     direct     inspiration     and  revela- 
tion,    as     every     man    and  woman 
many    know    by    seeking    for    it  in 
sincerity  and  faith.    I  well  remember 
when,   as  a  raw  country  boy,   I  first 
came  into  this    Tabernacle  and  heard 
President  Taylor  addressing  the  con- 
gregation, and  as  he  did  so,  he  put  up 
his  coat  collar,  rounded  up  his  shoul- 
ders, and  warned    the    brethren  and 
sisters  that  there  was  a  storm  coming 
and  for  thein  to  prepare  to  meet  it. 
He    foreshadowed    what    would  take 
place  because  of  certain  conditions,  and 
predicted  that  our  fathers  and  mothers 
would  suffer,  and  many  of  them  per- 
haps would  die  in  exile,  while  others 
might  be  incarcerated  in  prison  and 
our  property  confiscated.    I  put  that 
down  as  the  first  utterance  of  a  prophet 
of  God  that  I  had  heard.   Did  I  live  to 
see  the  fulfillment  of  it?    Why,  I  re- 
member in   my  own   father's  family, 
when  on  one  occasion  I  went  to  visit 
him,   as   he    did   not   rear   me.  Tha 
shades  of  night  were  falling,  the  sun 
was  sinking  in  the  west,  and  he  came 
to  bid  me  good  night.   I  had  thought  to 
spend  the  night  with  him  in  converse, 
and  so  I  said,   "Father,  you  are  not 
going  away,  are  you?"    Said  he  "My 
boy,  because  I  will  not    ignore  those 
whom   I  have  sworn  to  cherish  and 
love,  I  must  find  safety  in  the  caverns 
and  rocks  up  here  above  our  city,"  and 
none  of  his  sons  knew  where  he  laid 
his  head  at  night.    And  so,  I  know, 
from  some  things   that  have  entered 
into  my  life,  that  God  reveals  His  se- 
crets unto  men,  and  that  those  who  fear 
Him  and  keep  His  commandments  need 
not  be  in  the  dark  nor  have  doubts  and 
misgivings.    They  may  know,  by  the 
light  of  eternal  truth,  that  the  Gospel 
is  true,  and  that  it  will  save  and  ex- 
ait  all  men  in  the  presence  of  God  who 
will  obey  it.    God  grant  that  we  may 
be  true  to  it,  that  His  peace  may  be  in 


our  homes,  joy  in  our  hearts,  and  love 
towards  all  men  actuate  us,  that  plen- 
ty may  wait  upon  our  gates,  and  that, 
eventually,  we  may  be  saved  with  our 
loved  ones  in  His  presence.  This  is  my 
prayer  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 
A  sacred  solo: 

"Hear  ye  not,  O  Israel," 
was  sung  by  Miss  Jepperson. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

Value  of  General  Conferences— B  ernul  Na- 
ture nf  th"  Laws  cf  ihe  Go.«pel -Snlvatn  n 
for  tue  Dead  as  well  as  the  Living. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  truly  the  wis- 
dom of  heaven  was  shown  by  the  Lord 
when  He  instituted  in  His  Church  these 
general  conferences.  In  many  instan- 
ces those  who  otherwise  would  separ- 
ate never  again  to  meet  in  this  life, 
greet  each  other  on  the  Temple  block, 
old  acquaintances  are  renewed,  and  a 
feeling  of  brotherly  love  and  friendship 
is  promoted.  How  impressive  is  the 
thought  that  this  vast  concourse  of  peo- 
ple gathered  from  all  parts  of  Zion, 
even  from  the  very  uttermost  parts 
thereof,  and  from  some  of  the  missions 
of  the  world,  are  assembled  beneath  the 
shades  of  this  roof,  having  laid  aside 
their  daily  employment,  and  the  care.3 
of  the  world  for  a  few  days,  that  they 
might  listen  to  these  glorious  songs  of 
Zion,  that  they  might  wait  upon  the 
Lord,  and  hearken  to  what  He  may 
have  to  say  to  them  by  the  mouths  of 
His  servants;  that  they  might  pause, 
that  they  might  ponder  upon  the  things 
of  God,  and  that  they  might  consider 
the  Gospel  of  salvation.  And  let  me  say 
to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the 
heights  and  the  depths  of  the  Gospel 
are  quite  beyond  our  reach.  The  finite 
mind  is  not  capable  of  wholly  compre- 
hending the  great  plan  of  redemption. 
We,  occasionally,  have  a  glimpse  of 
its  power  and  beauty;  but  we  must 
learn  line  upon  line,  precept  upon  pre- 
cept, here  a  little  and  there  a  little,  un- 
til we  come  up  to  the  full  stature  of  a 
man  in  Christ  Jesus.  It  cannot  be  com- 
prehended in  a  day,  or  a  month,  or  a 
year;  it  is  the  study  of  a  life-time.  We 
have  been  taught  that  our  Father  in 
heaven  sits  enthroned  in  power,  exalt- 
ed, glorified,  in  the  midst  of  eternity; 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and,  moreover,  that  He  looks  upon  His 
children  as  though  we  were  in  eternity. 
His  dealings  with  the  children  of  men 
are  made  with  reference  to  eternity. 
Mark  these  words  that  occur  in  one  of 
the  revelations,  for  they  are  very  beau- 
tiful, and  impressive,  yet  simple: 

"Wherefore,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
that  all  things  unto  me  are  spiritual; 
and  not  at  any  time,  have  I  given  un- 
to you  a  law  which  was  temporal;  nei- 
ther any  man,  nor  the  children  of  men; 
neither  Adam,  your  father,  whom  I 
created. 

"Behold,  I  gave  unto  him  command- 
ments, but  no  temporal  commandment 
gave  I  unto  him,  for  my  command- 
ments are  spiritual;  they  are  not  na- 
tural nor  temporal,  neither  carnal  nor 
sensual." 

How  grand  is  the  knowledge  express- 
ed in  this  language.  We  have  come  to 
learn  that  the  commandments  which 
God  has  delivered  to  His  Church  par- 
take of  His  character.  He  is  spirit- 
ual, eternal,  everlasting,  from  everlast- 
ing to  everlasting;  hence  the  command- 
ments which  He  gives  are  spir- 
itual, eternal,  everlasting.  So  the 
Ten  Commandments,  several  of  which 
were  repeated  by  one  of  the  speakers 
this  morning,  are  appropriate  to  thf. 
time  in  which  we  live  and  suited  to  our 
condition;  but  not  more  so  to  us  than 
they  were  to  the  people  in  the  days  of 
the  Savior,  and  not  more  so  to  them 
than  to  the  children  of  Israel,  to  whom 
the  commandments  were  delivered. 
They  are  applicable  to  the  children  of 
men  in  all  ages  of  the  world,  because 
they  are  eternal,  and  partake  of  the 
very  nature  of  God  Himself. 

Take,  for  example,  the  principle  of 
faith,  which  is  one  of  the  foundation 
stones  of  the  Gospel.  I  say  to  you 
that  the  principle  of  faith  is  as  firm 
as  the  very  pillars  of  heaven.  It  can 
not  be  changed  nor  modified  to  suit  the 
opinions  of  men  or  of  any  particular 
condition  of  the  world.  The  principle 
of  faith  is  the  same  today  as  it  ever 
was.  Adam,  in  the  garden  of  Eden, 
must  of  necessity  have  exercised  the 
principle  of  faith,  otherwise  he  could 
not  appear  well  in  the  sight  of  God. 


Without  faith  it  is  impossible  to  please 
God  in  any  age  of  the  world.  This 
great  law  of  faith  is  unchangeable. 
Why?  Because  God  is  unchangeable, 
and  it  belongs  to  the  everlasting  Gos- 
pel. 

Consider,   for  a   moment,   the  great 
law  of  repentance.     It  is  binding  upon 
this  Church.     We  must  consider  it  and 
meet  its  requirements.      It  must  have  ' 
an  influence  in  our  daily  lives.  God 
has  said  that  He  can  not  look  upon  sin 
with   the   least   degree   of  allowance. 
Hear  it,  O  Israel!    It  can  not  be  con- 
doned, it  can  not  be  excused,  it  can  not 
be  winked  at,  because  confronting  sin 
is  this  preat  and  eternal  law  of  re- 
pentance.    If  we  will  have  absolution, 
if  we  will  have  forgiveness  of  sin,  we 
must  submit  to  the  law  and  repent. 
I  say — no,  I  do  not  say  it — it  is  declared 
in  the  Gospel  which  we  have  received, 
that  no  man  or  woman  can  be  saved  in 
the  kingdom  of  God  except  by  faith  and 
repentance.     Salvation  cannot  be  pur- 
chased.    It  is  a  free  gift  of  God,  and  it 
comes  through   His   Gospel.      And  in 
this  matter,  as  in  all  things,  God  is  no 
respecter  of  persons.      He  who  sins  in 
this  Church,  be  it  a  small  or  a  £reat 
transgression,  must  repent.     It  matters 
not  in  whom  the  sin  may  be  found.  In 
the  President  of  the  Church?    Yes.  In 
his  counselors?    Yes.    In  the  Twelve 
Apostles?    Yes.    The  Presidents  of  the 
Stakes,  the  Bishops  of  Wards,  and  the 
leaders     of      Zion?      Yes.      In  the 
lay  members  of  the  Church?    Yes.  It 
affects  the  most  influential  as  well  as 
the   humblest  in   the   Church.  When 
children  come  to  years  of  understand- 
ing and  accountability,  must  they  re- 
pent and  forsake  sin?   Yes.  Those  who 
do  not  repent,  those  who  do  not  yield 
obedience  to  this  great  and  immutable 
law  of  the  Gospel,  will  go  into  spiritual 
darkness  and,  peradventure,    will  lose 
the  faith. 

Take  the  principle  of  baptism — anoth- 
er great  foundation  law  of  the  Gospel. 
Oh!  how  simple  is  this  ordinance,  to 
some  perhaps  even  foolishness,  that  a 
man  or  woman,  by  going  down  into  the 
water  and  being  immersed  can  have  his 
or  her  sins  washed  away.  How  is  this? 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


37 


We  do  not  know.  We  only  know  that 
God  has  so  instituted  it.  It  is  a  part 
of  His  plan.  It  is  set  forth  in  the 
scriptures  with  great  clearness,  and 
you  may  read  it  in  the  revelations,  that 
those  who  would  have  their  sins  re- 
mitted must  submit  to  this  simple  or- 
dinance. By  study  and  reflection,  we  can 
see  the  beauty  of  the  ordinance.  We 
can  see  that  it  is  typical  of  death  and 
the  resurrection,  and  that  as  man  goes 
into  the  grave  and  is  called  forth  again 
out  of  the  grave  to  a  newness  of  life,  to 
immortality  and  eternal  life,  so  he  goes 
into  the  waters  of  baptism,  is  buried 
therein,  and  comes  forth  again  to  a 
newness  of  life  upon  the  earth.  Being 
relieved  of  his  sins,  he  is  a  new  crea- 
ture, with  a  new  heart,  with  new  pros- 
pects, and  with  bright  and  glorious 
hopes  before  him. 

Then  take  the  ordinance  of  the  lay- 
ing on  of  hands  for  the  reception  of  the 
Holy  Ghost — an  ordinance  that  is  so 
much  neglected  and  apparently  so  little 
understood  in  the  world,  and  yet  so  im- 
portant. The  Spirit  of  truth,  the  Spirit 
of  light,  of  wisdom,  of  intelligence  and 
of  knowledge,  is  conferred  by  this  or- 
dinance, whereby  men  and  women  can 
compherend  the  things  of  God;  and 
without  the  Spirit  of  God  this  is  im- 
possible. 

Now  let  me  impress  upon  your  minds 
the  fact  that  it  takes  just  as  much  to 
save  the!  dead  as  the  living,  and  what- 
ever ordinance  is  conferred  upon  th<» 
living  for  their  salvation  in  the  King- 
dom of  God  must  also  be  conferred  up- 
on the  dead.  Hence  these  glorious  tem- 
ples which  have  been  erected  in  our 
midst,  that  ordinances  may  be  per- 
formed therein  for  the  living  and  the 
dead.   In  this  we  see  again  that  God  is 


no  respecter  of  persons,  and  that  He  is 
feeling  after  the  dead  as  well  as  after 
the  living.  We  cannot  be  made  per- 
fect without  our  fathers  and  mothers 
and  our  ancestors,  and  they  cannot  be- 
made  perfect  without  us.  Oh,  how 
glorious  is  the  contemplation  of  the  plan 
of  redemption  that  is  so  far  reaching 
in  its  effects!  It  will  discover  us;  yea, 
it  will  find  every  spirit  that  has 
been  born  into  the  world.  If 
our  great  progenitors  of  this  land,  or 
of  any  other  land,  shall  enter  the  celes- 
tial kingdom,  if  they  shall  sit  down 
with  the  righteous  of  all  ages,  they 
must  go  in  at'  the  door;  for  the  house 
of  God  is  a  house  of  order,  and  there  is 
no  other  way.  Remember  that  Jesus 
Christ,  the  great  exemplar,  submitted 
Himself  to  the  ordinances  of  the  Gos- 
pel. He  demanded  baptism  of  His  ser- 
vant, John.  There  is  the  pattern,  the 
example  to  the  world,  even  to  the  great 
men  of  the  world,  and  if  they  would 
come  and  enjoy  with  us  the  blessings 
and  salvation  of  the  Kingdom  of  God, 
they  must  submit,  in  all  humility,  as  a 
little  child,  to  these  glorious  ordinances 
of  the  Gospel.  We  declare  it  as  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord.  We  testify  to  the 
truth  of  these  things. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you.    May  His 
Spirit  abound  in  the  hearts  of  the  peo- 
»  pie,  and  be  with  us  during  the  contin- 
uance of  this  conference,  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  sal- 
vation. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Byron  Sessions. 

Adjourned  until  Sunday,  at  10  a.  m., 
Oct.  9. 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Sunday,  October  9,  10  a.  m. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word; 

What  more  can  He  say  than  to  you  He 

hath  said, 
You  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have 

fled. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Seymour 
B.  Young,  president  of  the  Seven  Presi- 
dents of  Seventies. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

On  the  mountain  top  appearing 
Lo!  the  sacred  herald  stands, 

Welcome  news  to  Zion  bearing, 
Zion  long  in  hostile  lands. 

Mourning  captive! 
God  Himself  shall  loose  thy  bands. 

ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH, 
(President  of  Southern  States  Mission.) 

There  is  always  a  feeling  of  timidity 
with  me  when  I  arise  to  speak  before  a 
congregation  of  any  size,  but  it  seems 
as  though  it  is  increased  when  I  face  a 
congregation  like  this.  I  can  only  pray, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  be 
influenced  by  the  whisperings  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  for  the  short  time  that  I 
shall  address  you,  and  that  the1  same 
Spirit  may  also  rest  upon  you.  We  are 
told  that  we  can  understand  the  things 
of  man  by  the  spirit  of  man,  but  to 
understand  the  things  of  God  it  is  nec- 
essary for  us  to  enjoy  the  Spirit  of 
God.  It  is  as  necessary  to  listen  by 
the  assistance  of  that  Spirit  as  it  is  to 
si  eak  under  its  influence. 

It  has  been  my  lot,  for  some  little 
time  past,  to  labor  in  the  missionary 
field  known  as  the  Southern  States 
mission.  It  is  probably  the  oldest  mis- 
sion in  the  United  States,  and  perhaps 
in  the  Church.  Many  of  the  prominent 
men  who  stood  with  the  Prophet  Joseph 
labored  and  bore    their    testimony  in 


that  missionary  field.  A  great  many 
people  have  joined  the  Church  in  that 
section.  Large  numbers  have  emigrated 
to  Zion:  and  the  fathers  and  mothers, 
tho  grandfathers  and  the  grand- 
mothers of  many  of  the  youth  of  Zion 
today  were  found  by  the  Gospel  in  the 
sunny  south.  In  no  place  upon  this 
earth  can  a  more  hospitable  and  kinder 
people  be  found.  During  my  stay  there, 
thirteen  hundred  Elders  have  labored 
in  the  South.  They  have  taken  their 
grips  and  gone  out  among  the  people, 
and  lived  where  night  overtook  them. 
They  would  go  to  a  house  where  they 
could  see  it  was  washday;  they  would 
walk  boldly"  up  and  tell  thej  folks  that 
they  were  ministers  of  the  Gospel,  trav- 
eling without  purse  or  scrip,  and 
preaching  the  Gospel  as  Christ  com- 
manded it  should  be  taught,  and  then 
humbly  ask  if  they  would  wash  some 
linen  for  them.  In  this  way  they  got 
their  laundry  done  for  them.  At  the 
time  we  had  five  hundred  Elders  in  the 
field,  it  was  remarkable  how  few  of 
them  had  to  sleep  out  in  the  woods. 
Whether  the  people  belonged  to  the 
Church  or  not,  they  would  entertain 
and  feed  the  Elders.  And  God  will 
bless  all,  whether  in  His  Church  or 
not,  who  entertain  His  servants.  The 
people  of  the  South  are  the  religious 
people  of  the  United  States.  They  love 
to  hear  preaching;  they  read  the 
Bible.  There  is  less  of  fashion 
and  less  of  a  desire  to  go 
and  show  new  bonnets  and  diamonds 
in  the  churches  of  the  South  than  in 
those  of  the  North.  They  are  a  God- 
fearing and  God-loving  people.  While 
their  prejudices  are  very  strong,  their 
love  is  strong  also. 

At  present,  we  have  less  than  a  hun- 
dred and  seventy-five  Elders  in  the 
field;  and  if  we  were  to  release  all  who 
have  been  there  for  two  years  we 
would  have  less  than    a  hundred  and 


ELDER  BEN.   E.  RICH, 


39 


twenty-five,  where  we  once  had  about 
five  hundred.  While  we  have  between 
eight  and  nine  thousand  Saints  in  that 
mission,  they  are  so  badly  scattered 
that  it  seems  almost  impossible  to  get 
enough  of  them  together  to  maintain 
one  healthy  branch  of  the  Church. 
Some  months  we  baptize  eighty  or  nine- 
ty new  converts.  When  I  left  we  could 
not  fill  the  calls  made  of  us  to  go  and 
preach  the  Gospel  and  to  baptize  peo- 
ple who  had  been  converted  and  were 
ready  for  baptism.  We  do  not  want 
our  friends,  the  enemy,  to  think  that 
"Mormonism"  is  losing  ground  in  the 
Southern  States.  There  seems  to  be 
an  awakening  in  the  hearts  of  the  peo- 
ple, a  desire  to  know  God's  will,  and 
our  Elders  find  plenty  of  opportunity 
to  preach  the  Gospel;  and  the  more  per- 
secution and  opposition,  the  more  op- 
portunities we  have  for  preaching.  Our 
Elders  are  faithful  and  energetic. 

There  is  one  thing  that  I  want  to 
mention  here  regarding  Elders  who 
return  from  the  South.  Sometimes 
Elders  in  that  mission  lose  their  health, 
and  they  are  often  home  years  and 
years  without  regaining  it.  Many 
times  they  should  come  home  before 
they  do;  but  I  have  had  Elders  say  to 
me,  "Brother  Rich,  I  would  rather  stay 
here  and  die,  than  to  go  home  before 
I  have  been  here  two  years,  and  ful- 
filled an  honorable  mission,  such  a  one 
as  will  gain  me  the  approval  of  my 
Heavenly  Father,  and  my  brethren  and 
sisters  at  home.  There  is  no  such 
thing  in  this  Church  as  a  two-years' 
mission.  Sometimes  it  is  just  as  much 
the  will  of  God  for  an  Elder  to  return 
home  when  he  has  been  absent  six 
months  as  when  he  has  been  absent 
three  years.  If  the  people  here 
would  only  have  confidence  in 
the  ones  whom  the  authorities  of 
the  Church  have  appointed  to  preside 
over  missions,  they  would  then  cease 
their  gossiping  about  an  Elder  return- 
ing home  before  his  two  years  are  up. 
Should  there  be  anything  radically 
wrong  with  an  Elder  returning  home, 
the  presidents  of  missions  understand 
that  it  is  their  duty  to  report  the  case 
to  the  authorities  of  the  stake;  and 


when  it  is  not  reported,  and  an  Elder 
returns  home  in  six  or  in  twelve 
months  on  account  of  ill  health, 
the  Saints  should  extend  to  him 
as  loving  a  welcome  as  they 
would  if  he  had  been  absent  two 
or  three  years.  When  they  come  home 
sick,  you  ought  to  sympathise  with 
them,  not  criticise  them.  Very  few  ever 
come  home  before  they  are  expected 
from  any  other  cause  than  sickness. 
Sometimes  an  Elder  comes  to  a  mission 
when  he  could  do  the  work  of  God  more 
good  at  home  than  abroad,  and  when  it 
is  better  for  the  mission  that  he  should 
return  home.  In  cases  of  that  kind  the 
presidency  of  the  Church  have  instruct- 
ed the  presidents  of  missions  to  send 
them  home.  You  know  what  the  "Mor- 
mon" creed  as  laid  down  by  President 
Young  was:  "Mind  your  own  business." 
When  you  send  one  of  your  sons  to 
the  Southern  States,  then  it  becomes  my 
business  and  not  yours.  I  am  amenable 
to  the  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  if 
I  see  fit  to  send  an  Elder  home  when 
he  has  been  there  six  months,  es- 
pecially if  he  is  sick,  sympathize  with 
him,  pray  with  him,  help  to  build  him 
up,  and  do  not  try  to  tear  him  down. 
By  the  way,  if  mankind  could  only  ob- 
serve that  "Mormon"  creed,  what  would 
it  not  do  for  this  world.  God  has  said 
that  He  will  forgive  whom  He  will,  but 
He  gives  us  to  understand  that  we  are 
expected  to  forgive  all  men.  Our  busi- 
ness is  to  forgive;  the  judging  part  be- 
longs to  God.  Let  us  mind  our  own 
business,  and  not  interfere  with  that 
which  belongs  to  our  Father  in  heavem 
He  has  said  that  He  will  mete  judg- 
ments ,out  unto  those  who  deserve- 
them;  and  He  has  told  us  to  have  faith, 
hope  and  charity,  and  to  love  one  an- 
other. 

We  know  that  the  Gospel  is  true.  We 
know  the  conditions  existing  in  the 
world,  and  if  we  do  not  love  one  an- 
other what  a  disagreeable  condition  we 
are  in.  The  world  do  not  love  us,  and 
•we  do  not  expect  them  to  love  us;  for 
Christ  has  said  that  if  we  were  of  the 
world  the  world  would  love  its  own,  but 
because  He  has  taken  us  out  of  the- 
world  the  world  hateth  us.   So  we  need 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


not  expect  the  world  to  love  us;  but  we 
should  love  one  another.  We  should 
not  only  love  one  another,  but  we  have 
been  commanded  to  let  our  love  go 
over  the  wall  and  to  love  even  our  ene- 
mies, always  remembering  the  love 
that  God  the  eternal  Father  had  for 
the  world,  which  was  so  great  that  He 
gave  His  only  begotten  Son,  that  who- 
soever would  believe  on  Him  might 
have  eternal  life. 

This  is  the  mission  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  very  small  in  numbers 
compared  with  the  fifteen  hundred  mil- 
lions in  the  world,  yet  we  are  expected 
to  carry  the  light  of  the  Gospel  to  all 
mankind.  Hence  we  have  plenty  to  do. 
We  know  that  God  has  spoken  in  the 
age  in  which  we  live,  that  He  has  re- 
stored the  Gospel  of  His  Son  in  ful- 
fillment of  prophecy,  that  He  spoke  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  by  rev- 
elation and  the  voice  of  God  this 
Church  'was  organized  through  the  in- 
strumentality of  Joseph  Smith,  that 
the  organization  is  perfect,  that  the 
Gospel  has  been  sent  out  just  as  it  al- 
ways has  been  when  God's  power  has 
been  upon  the  earth,  and  that  it  is  made 
free  to  all  men.  The  requirements  of 
salvation  are  the  same  today  as  they 
were  in  the  days  of  Christ.  Man  must 
have  faith  in  God  and  in  the  divinitv 
of  Christ's  mission.  He  must  repent  of 
his  sins.  He  must  understand  that 
those  who  reject  the  principle  of  bap- 
tism reject  the  counsel  of  God  against 
themselves.  He  must  remember  that 
Christ  Himself  said  that  baptism 
was  necessary  in  order  to  ful- 
fill all  righteousness.  He  must 
understand  that  it  was  taught  by  Pe- 
ter, by  John,  by  James,  by  Paul,  and 
by  all  the  Apostles,  as  also  by  the 
Priests,  the  Elders  and  the  Seventies 
who  were  commissioned  and  sent  out  in 
that  day.  There  is  but  one  plan  of  sal- 
vation, but  one  way  to  eternal  life.  No 
man  has  the  right  to  climb  up  any  oth- 
er way.  There  is  but  one  way  of  re- 
ceiving the  seal  of  the  Spirit.  It  is  nec- 
essary for  us  to  be  born  of  the  water 
and  of  the  Spirit  to  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  God,  because  Christ  Himself 
said  so.    The  faith  of  the  Saints  of  old 


has  been  given  to  us,  and  we  are  con- 
tending throughout  the  length  and 
breadth  of  the  earth  for  the  faith  once 
delivered  to  the  Saints  and  now  deliv- 
ered to  us.  We  have  been  commanded 
to  go  into  all  the  world  and  cry  re- 
pentance; yea,  for  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  is  at  hand.  You  know  that  this 
is  true,  if  you  have  not  driven  the 
Spirit  of  God  away  from  you;  and  if 
you  know7  the  truth,  then  you  know  the 
Master's  will,  and  you  must  remember 
that  he  who  knoweth  the  Master's  will 
and  doeth  it  not  wrill  be  beaten  with 
many  stripes. 

I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you 
that  I  know  that  the  Gospel  has  been 
restored  to  the  earth  in  this  age.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  one  of  '  the 
greatest  prophets  that  ever  stood  upon 
this  earth.  Without  the  learning  of  the 
world,  by  placing  himself  in  commun- 
ion with  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  in  say- 
ing, "Thus  saith  the  Lord,"  by  the 
whisperings  of  the  Spirit.he  pointed  out 
the  organization  of  the  Church  and  set 
the  house  of  God  in  order  as  the  Lord 
revealed  it  to  him;  and  the  theologians 
of  the  world  from  that  day  to  this  have 
failed  to  find  one  single  flaw  in  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church  or  in  the  re- 
quirements of  salvation  to  be  found  in 
the  Church.  Whence  came  the  superior 
wisdom  of  Joseph  Smith,  if  it  did  not 
come  from  God?  As  a  farmer's  boy  he 
pointed  out  the  plan  of  salvation  and 
the  Church  of  Christ  as  it  was  not  then 
found  upon  the  earth,  and  it  cannot  be 
successfully  attacked  by  the  theologi- 
ans of  the  world.  The  only  argument 
is  the  argument  used  against  Christ 
and  His  disciples—that  their  characters 
Avere  not  good.  Their  characters  not 
good!  The  character  of  the  Smiths  not 
good?  Where  can  you  And  a  name 
upon  the  earth  today  where  the  fruits 
brand  such  a  charge  more  falsely  than 
the  fruits  that  have  come  from  the 
loins  of  the  Smiths  who  were  the  father 
and  the  uncles  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  The  character  of  their  genera- 
tion brand  it  as  a  lie.  Not  only  that,  but 
we  can  hurl  it  back  in  their  teeth,  and 
challenge  them  to  find  as  good  an  ab- 
stract of  pedigree  running  down  the 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


41 


stream  of  time  as  can  be  found  with 
that  name.  Four  hundred  thousand 
people  know  the  character  of  these 
men.  And  while  I  am  speaking-  I  see 
two  young-  men  here  who  have  been 
called  as  special  witnesses  for  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Start  with  them;  they  be- 
long to  the  two  families  of  the  Smiths, 
— the  father  of  the  Prophet  ^Joseph  and 
his  brother.  Do  you  know  these  young 
men?  Do  you  know  their  lives?  And 
do  you  know  their  fathers,  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith  and  Elder  John  Henry 
Smith,  also  special  witnesses  for  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ?  And  the  brother 
of  President  Smith,  Patriarch  John 
Smith — do  you  know  him?  Do  you 
know  the  fathers  of  these  mighty  men 
— Patriarch  Hyrum  Smith  and  the  late 
Apostle  George  A.  Smith,  a  member  of 
the  First  Presidency  with  President 
Brigham  Young?  Anything  the  matter 
with  their  characters?  And  the  grand- 
father,— the  great  grandfather  of  the 
present  Elder  George  A.  Smith, — who 
was  the  Uncle  of  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
and  who,  after  the  assassination  of  the 
Patriarch  Hyrum  Smith  remained  as 
the  Patriarch  of  the  Church — the  Pa- 
triarch John  Smith — do  you  know  his 
character?  We  will  even  go  farther 
than  that.  We  will  go  to  those  who  do 
not  belong  to  the  Church, — to  the  chil- 
dren of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  who 
are  opposing  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  Tell  the  people 
of  the  world  who  charge  the  Prophet 
Joseph  with  being  a  drunkard,  a  loafer, 
and  a  dishonest  man,  that  the  character 
of  the  sons  of  the  Prophet  himself 
brands  the  charge  as  being  false,  be- 
cause men  do  not  gather  figs  from  this- 
tles nor  graces  from  thorns,  nor  do 
they  expect  an  impure  fountain  to  send 
forth  pure  wnter.  So  far  as  the  char- 
acters of  these  men  are  concerned,  they 
maintain  the  testimony  which  the  other 
Smiths  maintain  concerning  the  falsity 
of  the  charges  that  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
his  father  and  his  father's  brothers 
were  not  sober,  industrious  and  honest 
people.  We  cannot  find  such  a  geneal- 
ogy in  any  other  place  on  earth.  God 
bless  the  name.  God  bless  the  memory 
of  the  instrument  that  was  chosen  by 


the  Almighty  through  whom  all  these 
mighty  truths  came  to  the  earth. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  remember 
what  the  Church  has  done  for  you.  Do 
you  enjoy  happy  homes?  Where  did 
you  get  them9  Through  the  instrumen- 
tality of  a  humble  Mormon  Elder  the 
Church  probably  found  your  mother  in 
Scandinavia  and  your  father  in  Eng- 
land. Tt  brought  them  together,  and 
was  the  cause  of  the  marriage  between 
them  which  gave  you  existence  upon 
the  earth  in  a  land  where  it  was  possi- 
ble for  you  to  enjoy  happy  homes.  And 
what  do  you  owe  to  the  Church?  You 
owe  everything,  even  life  itself;  and 
you  should  remember  that  Christ  the 
Redeemer  has  said  that  if  you  lose  your 
life  for  His  sake  you  shall  find  it  again, 
even  life  eternal.  I  bear  testimony  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God, 
and  that  those  who  have  stood  at  the 
head  of  the  Church  from  the  death  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  up  to  the  present 
time  have  been  and  are  prophets,  seers 
and  re  vela  tors.  I  bear  my  testimony  to 
tr  is.Jn  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 
Preservation  of  Health  of  Missionaries. 

It  may  be  proper  for  me  to  state  at 
this  time,  for  the  information  of  the 
Elders,  and  also  for  the  information  of 
the  local  authorities  of  the  Church,  as 
well  as  the  fathers  and  mothers  and 
kindred  of  the  Elders  who  are  out  in 
the  world  preaching  the  Gospel,  that 
the  Presidents  of  all  the  Missions  are 
under  strict  instructions  from  the  Pres- 
idency of  the  Church  to  guard  carefully 
the  health  of  the  Elders  that  are  labor- 
ing under  their  direction.  These  Presi- 
dents of  Missions  are  also  under  in- 
structions to  send  home  any  and  all 
Elders  whose  health  or  whose  other 
circumstances  may  make  it  necessavv 
for  them  to  return.  We  are  frequently 
enquired  of  by  parents  relative  to  the 
health  of  young  men  who  are  out 
preaching  the  Gospel,  and  we  invariably 
inform  them  that  the  Presidents  of 
Missions  are  carefully  guarding  the 
welfare  of  their  sons,  and  if  anything 
serious  occurs  to  them, making  it  neces- 
sary for  them  to  return  home,  it  will  be 
promptly  attended  to,   and  they  need 


42 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


not  worry  about  their  boys  on  that  ac- 
count. And  while  I  am  on  my  feet,  I 
would  like  to  exhort  the  Elders  who  are 
upon  missions,  and  those  who  shall  go 
upon  missions  in  the  future,  not  to  al- 
low the  thought  to  enter  their  hearts 
that  they  will  be  criticised  or  be  made 
to  suffer  in  their  character  or  their 
standing  in  the  Church  because  their 
health  will  not  permit  them  to  fill  a 
two  or  three  years'  mission  abroad . 
We  would  like  them  rather  to  feel  in 
themselves  a  wholesome  aversion  to 
coming  home  without  having  filled  an 
honorable  mission,  when  their  health 
and  other  conditions  will  permit  them 
to  do  so;  and  if  they  have  any  reluct- 
ance about  coming  home  at  all,  before 
completing  their  missions,  it  should 
be  based  upon  this  principle.  These 
men  that  are  appointed  to  preside  over 
the  missions  are  men  of  intelligence  and 
of  heart,  men  who  are  filled  with  affec- 
tion for  their  fellow  laborers,  and  they 
will  see  to  it  that  none  of  the  Elders 
are  left  in  their  fields  of  labor  to  suf- 
fer, if  it  can  be  avoided.  So,  brethren, 
and  sisters,  you  need  not  worry  at  all  in 
regard  to  these  matters. 

ELDER  ASAHEL  H.  WOODRUFF 

(Late   President   of   Northern  States 
Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  en- 
joyed to  the  utmost  the  spirited  talk 
delivered  by  President  Rich  this  morn- 
ing. I  only  regret  that  circumstances 
have  rendered  it  impracticable  for  me 
to  attend  the  previous  meetings  of  this 
glorious  conference.  I  feel  greatly  the 
need  of  the  faith  and  prayers  of  my 
brethren  and  sisters  during  the  few 
moments  I  shall  address  you  upon  this 
important  occasion.  As  is  doubtless 
known  to  many,  it  has  fallen  to  my  lot 
to  have  presided  for  a  brief  period  over 
that  important  branch  of  the  Lord's 
work  known  as  the  Northern  States 
mission.  In  the  providence  of  the  Lord 
and  as  dictated  through  His  servants, 
I  have  been  released  from  that  post 
of  duty,  after  having  enjoyed  the  priv- 
ilege for  about  thirty-two  months.  Dur- 
ing the  major  part  of  that  time  I  have 
enjoyed  greatly  my  labors.  It  has  given 
me  much  satisfaction  and  pleasure  to 


know  that  I  enjoyed  the  confidence  of 
my  brethren  to  the  extent  that  they 
were  willing  to  entrust  me  with  that 
important  post;  and  while  I  felt  great- 
ly my  inability  in  many  respects  to 
fulfill  the  requirements  of  the  position, 
yet  I  have  tried  to  perform  my  labors 
to  the  best  of  my  ability,  and  I  trust 
with  some  degree  of  success.  I  have 
had  the  confidence  and  support  of  the 
Elders  that  were  appointed  to  labor 
with  me  in  that  part  of  the  Lord's 
vineyard,  and  I  believe  that  through 
our  united  efforts  some  good  has  been 
accomplished.  A  great  deal  of  litera- 
ture has  been  distributed  among  the 
people  who  reside  in  the  six  States 
that  go  to  make  up  the  Northern 
States  mission.  During  the  past  two 
years  and  a  half  we  have  distributed 
four  hundred  thousand  tracts  and  over 
twenty  thousand  books.  We  have  held 
over  ten  thousand  meetings,  and  over 
four  hundred  thousand  Gospel  conver- 
sations, and  striking  a  fair  average  of 
five  members  to  each  family  visited, 
and  twenty  at  each  meeting  held,  we 
believe  we  have  reached  four  millions 
of  people  in  the  Northern  States  mis- 
sion during  that  time.  Vast  as  this 
number  is,  it  is  but  a  small  part  of  the 
entire  population  of  those  States.  When 
we  remember  that  the  population  of  the 
city  of  Chicago  alone  is  as  great  as 
the  combined  population  of  ten  of  our 
western  States,  we  can  perhaps 
realize  the  magnitude  of  the  work 
that  lies  ahead  of  the  small  body 
of  Elders  who  are  laboring  in  that  field 
at  the  present  time.  The  people  there, 
to  a  large  extent,  are  not  naturally  re- 
ligious. Their  hearts,  in  a  great  meas- 
ure, are  set  upon  the  things  of  this 
world.  President  Rich  uttered  a  truth 
when  he  said  that  the  people  of  the 
south  were  different  in  this  respect. 
Many  of  the  people  of  the  north,  partic- 
ularly in  the  large  cities,  do  not  read 
the  Bible  to  any  great  extent,  and  they 
relegate  religion  to  the  background. 
They  seem  to  think  it  is  something  that 
pertains  to  women  and  children  and  to 
those  who  are  not  quite  sound  in  their 
mental  faculties.  Consequently,  we 
have  to  reason  with   them  upon  the 


ELDER  ASAHEL  H.  WOODRUFF, 


43 


Gospel,  and  to  show  them  the  philoso- 
phy of  it;  and  we  do  not  have  more 
people  applying  for  baptism  than  what 
our  Elders  can  comfortably  take  care 
of.  We  rejoice,  however,  to  be  able 
to  report  to  our  brothers  and  sisters 
that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  progressing 
in  the  Northern  States,  and  that  the 
baptisms  are  quite  satisfactory.  As  I 
learn  from  Elder  German  E.  Ellsworth, 
of  Lehi,  who  has  been  appointed  "to  suc- 
ceed me  in  the  presidency  of  that  mis- 
sion, some  of  the  conferences  held  this 
fall  have  been  unusually  successful,  one 
particularly,  which  was  held  in  the 
State  of  Indiana,  in  a  district  which 
has  been  worked  for  some  time  by  the 
Elders,  and  which  promised  to  yield 
fruit.  It  was  decided  to  hold  a  confer- 
ence near  the  town. of  Robinson,  Greene 
county,  Ind.  The  conference  convened 
in  a  grove,  away  from  any  populous 
center.  Brother  Ellsworth  states  that 
he  did  not  see  two  houses  together  any 
one  time,  but  the  woods  seemed  to  turn 
out  the  people  in  large  numbers,  in 
response  to  our  invitation  to  attend  the 
conference;  and  the  interest  aroused 
during  the  first  few  sessions  of  the  con- 
ference was  so  great  that  they  felt 
constrained  to  appoint  a  time  for  bap- 
tisms. The  conference  commenced  on 
Saturday, and  on  the  following  Wednes- 
day afternoon  seven  of  the  leading  citi- 
zens of  the  neighborhood,  four  men  and 
three  women,  presented  tnemselves  as 
candidates  for  baptism.  This  was  fol- 
lowed later  by  two  other  baptisms,  and 
the  total  added  to  the  fold  during  that 
conference  was  15.  The  brethren  con- 
tinued the  meetings  for  14  days,  and 
it  is  stated  that  there  are  two  or  three 
other  districts  in  that  state  where  it  is 
believed  these  results  can  be  duplicated. 

It  might  be  of  interest  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  know  that  the  work 
has  been  opened  up  vigorously  in  Han- 
cock county,  State  of  Illinois — a  county 
which  suggests  so  many  historic  recol- 
lections, some  pleasant  and  some  other- 
wise, particularly  to  the  older  mem- 
bers of  the  Church.  Two  Elders,  full 
of  faith,  hope  and  courage,  and  possess- 
ed of  proper  ability  and  reliance  upon 
the  Lord,  were  sent  down  to  that  coun- 


ty some  few  months  ago,  without  purse 
or  scrip,  and  they  were  more  than  suc  - 
cessful in  reaching  the  hearts  of  the 
people  and  making  friends.  They  wero 
able  to  hold  successful  meetings  in  the 
city  of  Nauvoo,  and  in  Carthage.  Their 
headquarters,  at  the  present  time,  are 
in  the  town  of  Carthage,  and  it  is  not 
improbable,  if  suitable  arrangements 
can  be  made  with  the  Presidency,  that 
ere  long  the  Gospel  will  be  preached 
regularly  on  the  Sabbath  day  in  Carth- 
age jail.  This  is  a  great  reversal  of 
conditions  as  they  existed  in  the  for- 
ties, and  we  feel  that  the  Lord  is  work- 
ins  with  the  honest  in  heart  in  those 
States. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to 
endorse  the  words  spoken  by  Brother 
Rich  in  regard  to  meddling  and  inter- 
fering with  business  that  properly  be- 
longs to  the  mission  on  the  part  of  our 
brethren  and  sisters  at  home.  No  doubt 
this  is  done  thoughtlessly  in  the  great 
majority  of  cases;  but  we  found  in  the 
Northern  States  that  it  was  almost  im- 
possible to  carry  out  the  counsel  which 
President  F.  M.  Lyman  gave  to  us  as 
he  was  passing  through  there  sdm;; 
time  ago,  that  we  should  break  up  the 
notion  in  the  minds  of  the  Elders  that 
a  mission  was  simply  for  two  years, 
by  reason  of  the  criticism  and  interfer- 
ence of  those  at  home.  We  have  en- 
deavored to  carry  out  that  idea,  and 
have  released  some  brethren  even  be- 
fore the  two  year  period,  because  th^y 
were  advanced  in  years  and  had  family 
cares.  On  the  other  hand,  we  have 
tried  to  keep  some  younger  men  who 
were  in  a  position  to  do  us  a  great  deal 
of  good;  and  I  want  to  say  that  an 
Elder  who  has  served  two  years,  if  he 
can  be  retained  in  the  field  for  another 
six  months,  can  accomplish  about  as 
much  good  during  those  six  months,  if 
he  will  keep  up  steam,  as  he  could  dur- 
ing the  previous  two  years.  So  we  have 
tried  to  keep  some  of  them  two  years 
and  a  half;  but  in  a  great  majority  of 
cases,  either  their  parents,  or  the  Pres- 
ident of  the  Stake,  or  others  interest- 
ed, have  sent  for  them  to  come  home, 
sometimes  we  fear  without  good  excuse. 
We  believe  that  when  an  Elder  is  sent 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


out  into  the  field  he  is  under 
the  direction  of  the  mission 
president,  who  certainly  should 
be  entitled  to  the  spirit  of  his  office 
and  calling.  Jf  he  does  not  enjoy  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord  to  direct  him 
in  his  labors,  he  is  not  a  suitable  per- 
son to  be  retained  in  that  position,  and 
I  do  not  believe  the  Lord  will  long  re- 
tain him  there.  I  merely  mention  this 
fact  because  I  sometimes  think  par- 
ents do  not  view  the  matter  in  a  cor- 
rect light.  It  seems  to  me  that  every 
father  and  mother  ought  to  feel  that 
it  is  an  honor  conferred  upon  their  son 
if  he  be  retained  beyond  the  usual 
period.  It  should  be  an  evidence  to 
them  that  he  is  appreciated  and  that 
he  is  of  value  to  the  work. 

Through  material  assistance  received 
from  the  Presidency  of  the  Church, 
there  has  recently  been  acquired  a 
magnificent  church  and  parsonage  in 
the  city  of  Chicago,  which  will  serve 
not  only  as  a  meeting  place  for  the 
Saints  of  that  city,  but  also  as  head- 
quarters for  the  Northern  States  mis- 
sion. It  is  almost  centrally  located 
and  accessible  from  all  parts  of  the 
city.  The  auditorium  of  the  building 
will  seat  at  least  five  hundred  people, 
and  is  provided  with  splendid  seats  of 
walnut,  and  a  fine  pipe  organ.  The 
lower  part  of  the  building  is  divided 
into  a  chapel  room,  capable  of  seating 
some  thre  hundred  people.  There  is 
also  several  Sunday  School  rooms, 
a  parson's  study,  a  dining  room  and 
a  kitchen.  We  feel  that  this  is  a  very 
valuable  acquisition  to  the  mission,  and 
will  serve  to  further  the  work  greatly 
in  that  important  metropolis.  While 
our  meeting  place  in  the  past  has  been 
quite  comfortable,  it  has  not  altogether 
created  a  favorable  impression  upon 
our  friends,  and  I  rejoice  to  learn  that 
the  attendance  has  already  been  great- 
ly augmented  through  their  being  priv- 
ileged to  meet  under  more  favorable 
conditions. 

I  am  sure  that  President  Ellsworth 
and  the  Elders  laboring  in  Chicago  will 
be  glad  to  welcome  the  brethren  and 
sisters  from  Utah  who  visit  that  city 
for  business  or  other  purposes.  Some 


of  them  make  it  a  point  to  call  on  the 
Elders  as  they  pass  through.  Others, 
however,  come  and  go  without  showing 
themselves.  There  are  many  who  are 
in  the  habit  of  going  there  with  car- 
loads of  cattle  and  sheep,  many  of 
whom  are  actively  interested  in  the 
Lord's  work,  but  they  do  not  always 
bless  the  Saints  with  their  presence, and 
I  am  sure  the  Elders  would  be 
glad  to  extend  an  invitation 
to  them  to  come  and  listen 
to  them,  and  thereby  advance  the  in- 
terest of  the  Lord's  work.  Sometimes 
we  have  had  the  privilege  of  preaching 
to  visiting  brethren  on  street  corners, 
but  we  could  not  get  them  into  the  hall. 
I  remember  last  summer  I  was  preach- 
ing on  the  streets,  and  there  was  a 
group  of  men  came  along,  and  I  was 
quite  surprised  to  see  some  of  them  re- 
move their  hats  when  the  opening 
prayer  was  offered,  but  I  learned  at  the 
close  of  the  meeting  that  it  was  a 
group  of  our  brethren  who  had  come 
down  with  cattle,  and  who  were  on 
their  way  to  the  theater,  and  they 
were  attracted  by  the  singing.  Some 
of  them  afterwards  remarked  that  it 
was  the  first  time  in  their  lives  that 
they  had  ever  heard  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  preached  in  such  plainness. 
I  would  like  our  visitors  not  only  to 
come  to  the  street  meetings,  but  to 
the  indoor  services  as  well. 

It  has  been  claimed  by  some  mis- 
guided women,  particularly  one  in 
addressing  a  convention  at  Denver  a 
few  days  ago,  that  many  of  the  young 
Latter-day  Saints  were  becoming 
ashamed  of  the  religion  of  their  fath- 
ers. I  do  know  that  the  young  men  who 
are  preaching  the  Gospel  in  the  North- 
ern States,  are  young  men  of 
courage  and  conviction,  they  are  fear- 
less and  hesitate  not  to  go  out  upon 
the  crowded  thoroughfares,  though  it 
may  be  necessary  at  times  to  go  along 
and  sing  their  own  songs,  hold  their 
own  services,  and  they  look  fearlessly 
into  the  faces  of  hundreds  of  people  and 
declarp  unto  them  the  pure  principles 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  What 
is  there  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 


ELDER   JOSEPH    A.  McRAE, 


45- 


the  religion  of  our  fathers,  to  be  asham- 
ed of?  Surely  we  need  not  be  ashamed 
that  God  has  been  so  kind  as  to  bear 
testimony  to  our  souls  that  He  indeed 
does  live,  that  Jesus  Christ  lives,  and 
that  He  has  again  spoken  from  the 
heavens,  and  recommitted  the  keys  of 
authority  and  power,  by  which  men 
were  authorized  to  organize  His  Church 
upon  the  earth,  in  all  its  fullness,  in 
the  day  and  time  in  which  we  live. 
There  is  nothing  in  this  to  be  ashamed 
of.  There  is  nothing  in  the  history  of 
our  people  to  be  ashamed  of.  There  is 
nothing  to  be  ashamed  of  in  the  ma- 
terial progress  we  have  made,  by  which 
this  despised  religion  has  taken  the  peo- 
ple from  a  state  of  dependence,  if  not 
poverty,  in  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
and  placed  them  in  a  position  of  inde- 
pendence, and  made  them  land  own- 
ers and  householders.  I  want  to  tes- 
tify to  you  that  none  of  the  young  men 
out  in  the  Northern  States  mission  are 
getting  ashamed  of  their  religion,  and 
I  have  failed  to  find  any  at  home.  If 
there  are  any  such,  I  fear  that  the 
Lord  is  as  much  ashamed  of  them  as 
they  are  of  Him  and  His  work. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  divinity 
of  this  work.  I  do  know  it  is  God's 
eternal  truth  restored  to  the  earth.  .  I 
do  know  that  He  raised  up  His  ser- 
vant, the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and 
gave  him  authority  to  organize  His 
Church  upon  the  earth.  He  fulfilled  all 
that  was  required  of  him,  he  laid  the 
foundations  of  this  work,  and  he  laid 
them  deep,  and  he  laid  them  well.  Af- 
ter him  came  others  who  were  specially 
qualified  for  the  peculiar  work  and  the 
peculiar  conditions  that  they  were  re- 
quired to  meet  in  their  time.  And  I 
do  testify  that  we  have  a  Prophet  of 
the  Lord  standing  at  the  head  of  this 
work  at  the  present  time.  I  pray  that 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  be  with 
us,  that  His  spirit  may  fill  our  hearts, 
and  that  our  first  consideration  and  de- 
sire may  always  be  to  labor  for  the  ad- 
vancement of  His  work  upon  the  earth. 
I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  A.  McRAE. 
(President  of  Colorado  Mission.) 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice 
with  you  this  morning  in  the  opportu- 
nity of  meeting  in  this  conference.  I 
have  enjoyed  exceedingly  the  meetings 
we  have  had  during  the  past  few  days 
and  the  remarks  that  have  been  made, 
and  I  trust  that  the  few  moments  I 
shall  occupy  this  morning  I  may  be  en- 
dowed with  the  Spirit  of  our  Father  in 
heaven,  that  I  may  speak  unto  you  that 
which  will  be  of  mutual  benefit  to  you 
and  myself.  I  realize  that  without  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  we  are  not  able  to 
accomplish  anything  pertaining  to  His 
great  work.  I  have  listened  w.ith  pleas- 
ure to  the  reports  made  by  our  breth- 
ren of  the  missions  which  they  preside 
over.  I  suppose  that  the  work  in  our 
part  of  the  country  is  similar  in  many 
respects  to  that  which  you  have  heard. 
We  are  endeavoring  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel unto  the  people:  but  if  we  are  to 
be  measured  and  judged  by  the  number 
of  converts,  or  the  baptisms  which  are 
performed  in  the  Colorado  mission,  it 
seems  to  me  that  our  work  will  appear 
to  have  been  in  vain.  But  we  have  a 
great  many  friends.  Many  of  the  peo- 
ple in  Colorado  are  friendly  to  the 
work  that  we  are  engaged  in.  They 
come  to  us  with  expressions  of  friend- 
ship, and  they  give  unto  us  their  aid 
and  assistance  in  every  way  they  pos- 
sibly can.  About  the  only  opposition 
we  receive  in  Colorado  is  from  people 
who  have  come  from  some  other  part 
of  the  country.  Brother  Woodruff  re- 
ferred to  remarks  that  were  made  in 
Denver  a  few  days  ago  by  some  good 
sister.  Similar       remarks  were 

made  by  people  from  other  parts 
of  the  country,  and  not  by  any 
who  live  in  the  state  of  Colorado.  It 
was  the  national  convention  of  the 
Female  society  of  the  Methodist  church. 
I  went  to  the  president  of  that  society, 
and  asked  the  privilege  of  presenting 
"Mormonism"  before  the  convention 
from  a  "Mormon"  standpoint,  but  they 
told  me  the  program  was  full,  and  it 
would  be  impossible  to  give  me  any 
time.    I  felt  in  this  matter  like  one  of 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  brethren  said  President  Woodruff 
felt  in  relation  to  the  St.  George  Tem- 
ple. When  it  was  proposed  to  close 
that  Temple,  President  Woodruff  said 
it  should  remain  open  so  that  the  peo- 
ple might  have  an  opportunity  to  do 
their  "work,  and  if  they  did  not  do  the 
work,  then  the  responsibility  would  be 
upon  them.  I  felt  that  we  should  give 
these  people  an  opportunity  to  hear  the 
Gospel;  then  if  they  refused  to  hear  our 
testimony,  the  sin  be  upon  their  heads. 

I  notice  that  this  convention  resolved 
to  stamp  out  "Mormonism"  entirely; 
and  I  thought  while  listening  to  the 
remarks  of  President  Smith,  and  the 
report  which  he  made  of  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church,  what  part  of  this 
great  organization  are  they  going  to 
begin  on  with  their  stamping-out  pro- 
cess? And  if  they  should  stamp  out 
one  part  of  it,  what  about  the  other 
parts?  How  futile  are  the  efforts  of 
those  who  are  endeavoring  to  tear  down 
"Mormonism!"  Prominent  men  of 
Colorado  and  the  other  States  in  our 
mission  are  coming  to  us  voluntarily 
and  assuring  us  that  they  are  our 
friends,  and  they  tell  us  that  we  are 
the  only  religious  people  in  the  world 
who  are  advancing.  I  can  readily  be- 
lieve this  when  I  look  over  this  sreat 
sea  of  faces.  I  can  realize  the  advance- 
ment this  Church  has  made  in  the  few 
years  since  it  was  organized.  A  few 
days  ago  I  called  on  my  grandmother, 
who  is  now  86  years  of  age,  and  who 
was  baptized  into  the  Church  in  the 
year  1833,  and  I  asked  her  if  she  felt 
sorry  for  having  been  baptized.  She 
said:  "No,  my  son,  I  have  not  seen 
one  hour  of  sorrow  for  it."  Although 
she  has  passed  through  many  trials  and 
seen  much  sorrow  in  the  early  historv 
of  this  Church,  being  separated  from 
her  family  and  driven  from  one  part  of 
the  country  to  another,  destitute  of 
food  and  clothing  on  many  occasions, 
yet  never  a  day  had  she  felt  to  regret 
having  joined  this  Church.  She  said: 
"I  know  the 'Gospel  to  be  the  power  of 
God  and  salvation,  not  because  man 
has  told  it  to  me,  but  through  the  Spirit 
of  my  Father  in  heaven."  I  feel  this 
testimony  myself.  I  know  that  we  are 
engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and 


I  realize  that  the  efforts  we  are  putting 
lorth  are  yielding  fruit.  We  are  reap- 
ing the  harvest,  not  in  baptisms  per- 
chance, but  in  the  good  opinion  of  the 
thinking  men  of  the  world. 

I  believe  that  the  great  evil  of  the 
age  is  the  tendency  toward  infidelity. 
The  people  of  the  world  are  becoming 
impregnated  with  that  spirit  to  such  an 
extent  that  I  fear  it  may  contaminate 
some  of  those  who  have  taken  upon 
themselves  to  serve  the  Lord  and  to 
keep  His  commandments.  I  hope  it 
will  not;  but  in  laboring  among  the 
people  I  see  so  much  infidelity  that  I 
ask  myself,  how  is  it  possible  to  keep 
this  spirit  from  spreading  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints?  Where  we  are  la- 
boring, many  people  are  becoming  dis- 
gusted even  with  the  teaching  of  the 
Bible.  They  say  that  the  Bible  would 
do  for  the  people  who  lived  ages  ago, 
and  .didn't  know  any  better,  but  we 
have  gone  past  those  things  now. 
I!;  makes  me  wonder  whether  or  not  this 
spirit  is  getting  among  the  Latter-day. 
Saints,  but  I  do  pray  it  will  not. 

We  are  striving  in  our  mission  to 
have  the  Elders  who  go  there  become 
thoroughly  acquainted  with  the  princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel.  We  are  trying  to 
keep  them  at  work,  realizing  that  so 
long  as  they  are  working  and  striving 
every  day  to  preach  the  Gospel  and 
to  bear  their  testimony,  the  Lord  will 
be  with  them,  and  will  strengthen  the 
testimony  which  they  already  have.  I 
believe  we  have  as  good  a  lot  of  Elders 
and  sister  missionaries  in  our  mission 
field  as  can  be  found  in  any  part  of  the 
world.  They  are  working  zealously 
and  earnestly  for  the  advancement  of 
truth,  and  you  do  not  need  to  have 
one  moment  of  worry  regarding  their 
condition.  You  need  not  trouble  as  to 
whether  they  are  sick,  or  whether  they 
will  be  sent  home  before  their  time,  or 
whether  they  will  be  kept  longer  than 
their  time.  We  have  determined  to 
keep  an  Elder  in  the  mission  field  as 
long  as  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  directs. 
We  have  Elders  now  who  have  been 
there  from  thirty  to  thirty-three 
months,  and  they  may  be  there  thirty- 
six  or  forty  months,  before,  they  return 
home.     We  do  not  want  them  to  come 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


47 


home,  for  we  feel  that  they  are  accom- 
plishing a  great  amount  of  good.  In 
some  instances,  while  they  may  not  be 
accomplishing  much  good  for  others, 
they  are  doing  a  great  amount  of  good 
to  themselves.  ■  While  they  may  not  be 
baptizing  many,  they  are  becoming 
thoroughly  imbued  with  the  spirit  of 
the  Gospel  and  receiving  the  testimony 
of  Jesus  Christ  for  themselves,  and 
when  they  return  to  their  homes  they 
will  be  in  a  position  to  do  you  and  the 
great  work  in  which  they  are  engaged 
more  good  than  if  they  were  to  return 
at  an  earlier  period.  The  Elders  should 
remain  in  the  mission  field  until  those 
who  preside  over  them  feel  that  they 
should  return.  This  is  the  policy  we 
have  been  endeavoring  to  carry  out. 
We  have  tried  to, show  the  Elders  that 
their  mission  is  not  for  any  stated  peri- 
od of  time,  but  they  are  to  remain  until 
they  receive  their  release,  and  they  will 
receive  their  release  just  as  soon  as  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  indicates  that  it 
should  be  given. 

We  who  are  laboring  in  the  Colorado 
mission,  love  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
and  we  love  to  bear  our  testimony.  The 
Elders  have  borne  testimony  upon 
many  of  the  street  corners  of  the  cities 
and  towns  of  the  Colorado  mission.  In 
the  little  towns  and  hamlets  they  have 
gone  into  the  streets  on  Saturday  af- 
ternoon, when  the  people  have  gath- 
ered to  do  their  shopping,  and  they 
have  found  there  congregations  of  four 
and  five  hundred  people  who  have  stood 
and  listened  to  them  while  they 
preached  the  Gospel.  It  was  rather  a 
new  thing  to  some  of  the  Elders  to  hold 
meetings  on  the  streets  in  the  after- 
noon, but  we  have  found  it  has  done  a 
great  deal  of  good  and  has  opened  a 
great  many  doors  to  the  Elders.  And 
while  the  people  in  this  mission  were 
hospitable  before,  and  took  the  Elders 
in  and  gave  unto  them  everything 
necessary  to  their  comfort,  we  feel  that 
these  street  meetings  have  resulted  in 
much  good,  in  allaying  prejudice,  and 
in  various  other  ways.  May  the  Lord 
bless  us  and  help  us  to  be  faithful  and 
to  do  His  will  continually,  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


Sister  Eva  Ward  of  Provo  sang  a  solo 
entitled,  "The  Redemption." 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 

A  good  word  to  the  Young— Importance  of 
enlarging  home  ludustries. 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure,  my  dear 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  priv- 
ilege of  speaking  a  few  minutes  to  this 
vast  congrgation  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  am  proud  indeed  to  hear  the  reports 
that  have  been  given  and  the  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne  this  morn- 
ing by  three  presidents  of  missions,  and 
to  partake  of  the  Spirit  of  this  confer- 
ence. I  know  they  are  interested  in 
your  sons,  and  in  the  great  missionary 
work  of  the  Church.  I  feel  to  say, 
thank  God  for  them  and  their  labors. 

Our  enemies  would  very  much  appre- 
ciate the  claim,  if  it  were  true,  that 
many  of  our  young  people  are  asham- 
ed of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Clirist.  But 
in  my  travels  among  our  people,  and 
in  coming  in  contact  with  the  young 
people  in  our  meetings,  I  can  testify 
to  you  that  instead  of  being  ashamed 
of  the  great  work,  they  are  proud  of  the 
fact  that  they  are  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  They  are  proud  of  their  fath- 
ers and  of  their  mothers.  I  am  not 
ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  for  I  do  know  that  it  is 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation;  and 
I  hope  I  may  never  live  long  enough 
to  be  ashamed  of  the  Gospel,  or  of  the 
devotion  that  my  father  and  my  moth- 
er gave  to  this  great  work.  I  only  hope 
that  I  shall  have  that  same  fidelity, 
that  same  love,  and  that  same  confi- 
dence in  the  work  of  God  that  they 
had;  that  I  shall,  at  all  times,  have 
sufficient  of  the  Spirit  of  God  to  enable 
me,  if  it  became  necessary,  to  give  all 
on  earth  for  its  advancement,  as  I 
know  that  the  father  and  mother  who 
gave  me  life  would  have  done  any  min- 
ute after  they  were  baptized  into  this 
church. 

There  are  many  things  that  the 
Apostles  of  the  Church  speak  of  at  the 
iifferent  quarterly  conferences  pertain- 


4S 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


ing  to  the  welfare  of  the  people  and 
properly  so.  As  I  visit  the  different 
sections  of  our  State,  and  see  pros- 
perity on  all  hands,  I  thank  our  heav- 
enly Father  that  the  people  are  so  well 
provided  with  comfortable  homes, 
happy  surroundings,  and  loving-  chil- 
dren, and  while  I  know  that  there  is 
very  little  suffering  among  the  Saints 
of  God,  yet,  as  I  travel  from  one  end  of 
the  state  to  the  other  and  mingle  with 
the  people,  I  can  plainly  see  in  dif- 
ferent localities  that  there  are  many 
natural  advantages  that  are  not  made 
the  best  use  of  by  our  people.  At  the 
earnest  request  of  the  presidency  of  the 
St.  George  stake  of  Zion,  I  took  a  trip 
rcently  through  that  stake  for  the  pur- 
pose of  seeing  if  the  conditions.were  fa- 
vorable for  the  re-establishment  of  an 
industry  by  which  a  part  of  the  woolen 
goods  used  by  the  southern  people  could 
be  manufactured  at  Washington,  Utan, 
This  state  had  for  its  emblem 
the  beehive,  which  means  in- 
dustry, frugality  gathering  for 
future  need.  Would  that  we 
all  might  incorporate  its  meaning  into 
our  lives.  Tn  years  past  that  great 
aj  ostle  of  home  manufacture,  President 
Brigham  Young,  taught  very  strongly 
from  one  end  of  the  land  to  the  other, 
the  duty  and  principle  of  making  what 
we  wear  and  raising  what  we  eat.  You 
can  go  into  many  of  our  communities 
and  you  will  find  the  result  of  his 
teachings  in  different  kinds  of  factories 
and  mills,  but  I  am  sorry  to  say  that 
almost  every  woolen  mill  in  the  state 
is  closed  today,  with  the  machinery 
not  only  lying  idle,  but  going  to  rack 
and  ruin.  Then  again  we  can  go  into 
the  different  counties  of  Utah  and  see 
hundreds  of  car  loads  of  fruit  rotting 
and  going  to  waste. 

It  seems  to  kip,  for  want  of  proper 
care  and  lack  of  means  to  preserve  the 
same,  we  are  neglecting  one  of  the 
great  cardinal  principles  of  prosperity, 
that  has  been  taught  to  us  by  President 
Young  and  all  of  his  successors,  that  of 
loyalty  to  home  manufactured  goo:!*. 
The  trouble  is  we  have  forgotten  the 
great  principle  of  co-operation  by  which 
the  mill  and  factory  in  our  early  his- 


tory were  established.  And  why  is 
this?  I  rather  think  that  one  of  the 
causes  is  loss  of  confidence  in  one  an- 
other's ability  to  make  money  in  manu- 
facturing institutions.  Perhaps  one 
reason  is  because  there  have  been  a  few 
failures  and  a  loss  of  means  in  some  of 
these  undertakings.  But  I  believe  that 
if  the  people  today  would  be  as  loyal  to 
the  great  principle  of  home  manufacture 
as  they  were  when  these  institutions 
were  established,  not  only  those  which 
we  have  in  our  midst  would  be  running, 
but  many  others  would  be  started.  If 
the  men  associated  with  the  institutions 
that  have  been  established  in  the  past 
ir.  different  parts  of  Utah,  would  only 
get  together,  and  if  the  men  of  means 
wculd  join  with  them  and  furnish 
enough  money  to  resuscitate  these  in- 
dustries, and  all  work  upon  the  princi- 
ple of  sustaining  home  institutions,  I 
am  satisfied,  that  we  would  grow  in  our 
material  interests  much  faster  than  we 
have  in  the  past. 

I  also  find  in  traveling  around,  that 
there  is  a  lack  of  interest  among  the 
people  in  providing  work  for  their  chil- 
dren, and  many  of  them  are  idle.  I 
have  noticed,  too,  that  many  of  our 
young  people  are  becoming  professional 
idlers.  If  there  is  any  one  thing  that, 
will  bring  trouble  to  the  children  of  the 
Batter-day  Saints  more  than  another  it 
is  to  raise  them  up  in  idleness;  for  an 
idle  brain  is  the  devil's  workshop.  I 
tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
ought  to  provide  some  means  of  em- 
ployment for  our  young  people,  and 
teach  them  in  their  youth  to  be  indus- 
trious and  avoid  the  crime  of  idleness. 
The  proper  time  to  correct  this  evil  is 
now.  Upon  the  great  face  of  the  world's 
time  piece  is  only  written  one  word, 
and  that  is  NOW.  I  hope  and  trust 
that  where  we  see  the  great  blessings 
which  our  Heavenly  Father  showers  up- 
on the  people  going  to  waste  upon  this 
hand  and  upon  the  other,  we  will  be  in- 
terested enough  to  get  together,  and 
men  who  have  been  blessed  of  God  with 
means,  utilize  their  means  in  starting 
some  kind  of  industry  that  will  em- 
ploy our  young  people.  I  know  that  if 
we  will  do  this  and  the  people  be  loyal 


ELDER  NEPHI  PRATT. 


49 


in  their  support,  numerous  industries 
can  be  established  and  made  a  success. 
It  is  almost  a  shame  to  think  of  the 
number  of  factories  that  have,  been 
started  in  Utah  in  the  shape  of  woolen 
mills  and  only  one  running — a  mill  at 
Provo,  running  night  and  day,  and 
ninety  per  cent  of  all  its  products  go- 
ing to  eastern  markets!  It  did  not  use 
to  be  that  way,  and  it  should  not  be 
now.  Many  of  our  people  are  restless, 
.and  some  of  the  younger  men,  and  some 
of  the  older  ones,  too,  are  moving  away 
in  search  of  new  homes,  claiming  lack 
of  opportuntiy  to  make  a  liv- 
ing. I  tell  you  that  there  axe 
just  as  good  advantages  and 
as  many  of  them  right  within  the 
borders  of  our  own  state,  if  they  are 
only  utilized,  as  you  will  find  most 
anywhere  in  this  country.  Do  not  get 
discouraged,  and  do  not  leave  your 
homes,  but  make  use  of  the  advantage? 
around  you.  I  have  seen  lately  many 
who  have  sold  their  homes  to  go  to  dif- 
ferent localities,  and  they  have  spent 
most  of  the  money  in  trying  to  get 
located,  and  now  they  are  coming  back 
to  where  they  went  from,  not  as  wei. 
off  as  when  they  went,  and  without  any 
home,  and  most  of  the  means  gone. 

I  have  in  mind  now  many  industries 
that  could  be  started  in  different  parts 
of  the  State,  and  should  be  by  men  who 
have  the  interest  of  the  people  at  heart. 
I  ask  the  leading  men  of  our  communi- 
ties to  take  an  interest  in  this  par- 
ticular direction,  and  see  if  they  cannot 
find  something  to  do  for  all  our  boys, 
and  for  the  idle  men,  if  there  are  any. 
I  suggested  the  other  day  to  the  Com- 
mercial Club  of  Provo  that  it  would  be 
a  very  good  thing  for  them  to  appoint 
a  committee  to  visit  every  locality  in 
Utah,  and  even  beyond  the  borders  of 
our  own  State,  and  see  what  was  being 
done  in  other  localities  by  way  of  manu- 
facturing industies,  and  returning 
study  the  natural  resources  of  our  city, 
and  see  if  they  could  not  be  converted 
into  something  that  we  must  have  and 
for  which  we  are  now  sending  our 
means  out  of  the  State.  I  believe  it 
would  be  a  good  thing,  whenever  men 
travel  from  one  place  to  another,  to 


learn  of  the  successful  manufacturing 
establishments,  and  perhaps  they  might 
find  something  that  would  be  of  ad- 
vantage to  the  people  where  they  are 
located.  If  these  things  are  looked 
after,  I  believe  greater  prosperity  will 
be  brought  to  the  people  than  they 
have  enjoyed  in  the  past. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  ask  God's 
blessings  upon  us  as  a  people,  and  upon 
all  that  we  undertake  to  do  in  right- 
eousness, that  we  may  be  successful. 
That  His  blessings  may  ever  attend  us, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus'. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Arous,c, 
O  ye  Mortals." 

Eenediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder 
Joseph  W.  McMurrin  of  the  seven  presi- 
dents of  Seventies. 

OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

At  the  overflow  meeting  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  Sunday  afternoon,  the  au- 
dience filled  every  available  seat. 
Apostle  Rudger  Clawson  called  the 
meeting  to  order  promptly  at  2  o'clock, 
after  which  the  Temple  choir  and  audi- 
ence sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the 
day  of  Salvation."  Prayer  was  offered 
by  President  James  E.  Steele  of  Bing- 
ham stake;  followed  by  the  Temple 
choir  singing  the  Harvest  Anthem,  "Te 
shall  dwell  in  the  land." 

ELDER  NEPHI  PRATT, 

(President  of  Northwestern  States  Mis- 
sion.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  very 
grateful  to  be  accounted  worthy  to  oc- 
cupy this  position  in  this  great  assem- 
blage this  afternoon.  I  rise  before 
you,  as  other  Elders  do,  with  much  fear 
and  trembling;  but  I  am  grateful  to 
the  Lord,  nevertheless,  that  I  am  ac- 
counted worthy  to  be  a  member  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  My  spirit  will,  throughout  the 
endless  ages  of  eternity,  continue 
thankful  for  the  conditions  which  have 
surrounded  me  in  mortal  life.  I  thought 
this  morning,  while  listening  to  certain 
remarks  of  our  brethren  in  this  con- 
ference, that  if  I  could  see  my  own 
father  and  mother  again,  with  the  un- 
derstanding that  I  have  now,  I  could 
almost  bow  down  and  worship  them.  I 
am  thankful  that  my  father  was  a 
seeker  after  truth,  that  he  hungered  af- 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ter  righteousness,  and  that  he  lived  in 
a  generation  when  the  Lord  had  again 
established  His  work  on  the  earth  with 
authority  and  with  power.  In  the  souls 
of  my  mother  and  my  father  were  im- 
planted desires  that  finally  led  them  to 
receive  the  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God, 
in  its  purity.  I  have  sought  for  many 
years  to  correct  the  frailties  of  my 
life,  that  I  might  be  accounted  worthy 
in  the  hereafter,  when  I  have  laid  by 
mortality,  and  gone  into  the  spirit 
world,  to  associate  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  with  my  father  and  oth- 
er Prophets,  Priests  and  kings  that 
have  been  raised  up  from  this  people 
and  saved  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of 
our  God.  Gold  and  silver,  houses  and 
lands,  and  all  that  beautifies  and  en- 
riches the  eafrth,  and  gladdens  the 
heart,  all  that  we  call  wealth  in  the 
earth,  Ave  ought  to  consider  as  dross 
compared  to  the  excellency  of  the 
knowledge  and  spirit  of  this  work. 
When  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  comes  up- 
on a  man,  and  he  is  performing  the 
duties  that  the  Lord  has  called  him  to 
do,  he  receives  the  revelations  of  Jesus 
Christ,  when  he  goes  to  the  Lord  and 
seeks  to  know  how  to  fulfill  the  duties 
of  his  high  and  holy  calling.  The  still 
small  voice  will  come  to  a  man  or  to  a 
woman,  in  the  positions  they  occupy  in. 
the  family  or  in  the  Priesthood.  No  per- 
son can  stand  between  woman,  child,  or 
man  and  their  God  in  this  Church.  We 
are  dependent  upon  the  words  of  no 
individual,  nor  the  testimony  of  any 
person  in  the  world.  No  man's  ability 
is  so  great,  and  never  has  been,  no 
matter  what  may  be  said  about  the 
greatness  of  our  leaders,  that  could 
ever  accomplish  what  has  been  done  in 
this  generation.  No  man  could  have 
established  this  work,  much  less  an  un- 
informed boy.  This  work  was  estab- 
lished by  the  Lord. 

In  the  mission  where  I  am  called  to 
labor  the  Elders  are  hunting  diligently 
for  good  souls  that  will  listen  to  their 
testimony.  These  Elders  almost  cry 
with  joy  when  they  get  a  few  investi- 
gators that  accord  them  the  privilege 
of  stating  the  mission  God  has  sent 
them  to  perform.   We  realize  the  value 


of  the  souls  of  men  and  women.  When 
we  find  the  door  of  a  house  opened 
to  us,  and  the  hearts  of  the  people 
softened  sufficiently  that  they  give  us 
food  and  shelter,  we  begin  then  to  pray 
for  that  household.  We  beseech  the 
Lord,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  that  has 
called  us  into  the  work  of  God,  to 
bless  that  man  and  his  house,  and  to 
bless  his  wife  and  children,  that  they 
may  have  the  testimony  that  this  is 
the  work  of  God  come  unto  them  from 
God  the  Eternal  Father.  Our  Elders 
visit  them  as  often  as  it  is  wise  to  do 
so.  They  continue  to  pray  for  them 
and  speak  upon  the  principles  of 
truth  and  righteousness '  as  frequently 
as  the  spirit  that  is  in  the  Elders 
tells  them  will  be  proper  to  do  in  that 
house,  earnestly  desiring  to  save 
souls. 

I  have  thought  in  my  cogitations  in 
the  missionary  field,  many  a  time, 
how  careless  I  have  been,  in  the  years 
that  are  passed,  about  the  soul,  of  my 
neighbor,  here  in  Zion.  How  much 
did  I  seek  as  a  teacher  in  the  church, 
sent  around  the  block,  to  teach  the 
people,  cultivate  the  garden  of  the 
Lord,  and  save  the  souls  of  my 
brethren?  The  missionary  work  I 
am  doing  abroad  has  shown  me  that 
my  soul  was  not  sufficiently  in  the 
work  when  I  was  at  home.  The  cares 
of  my  family,  financial  affairs  and 
other  things  constrained  me,  so  that 
when  I  went  out  among  the  people  I 
wanted  to  hurry  from  family  to  fam- 
ily, but  now  the  souls  of  men  are 
precious  to  me.  It  seems  to  me  I  never 
will  again  on  the  earth  be  indifferent 
to  the  soul  of  any  man,  because  all  are 
the  children  of  God. 

The  Elders  in  my  mission  are  about 
40  in  number,  all  faithful  and  true, 
some  of  them  of  fine  ability.  Some  of 
you  will  wonder  at  your  sons  when 
they  return  from  that  mission.  If 
they  seem  improved  to  you,  if  they 
ccme  back  converted  to  the  Gospel, 
>ou  may  know  that  they  had  to  re- 
sist the  powers  of  evil,  and  overcome 
the  world.  They  now  appreciate 
privileges  that  they  had  never  ac- 
cepted when  they  were  at  home.  O 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH. 


you  young  people  in  the  Church  of 
God,  you  that  are  in  theological 
classes  in  Sunday  schools,  who  study 
the  Gospel,  that  is  contained  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Bible,  be- 
cause you  have  been  exhorted  to  do 
so,  but  sit  like  dummies  upon  your 
seats  when  asked  to  answer  questions, 
how  shall  you  face  the  people  of  the 
world  when  you  are  sent  on  missions? 
If  you  won't  get  up  where  there  is  a 
small  class  all  in  sympathy  with  you, 
because  your  heart  beats  and  fails  you 
at  the  time,  what  shall  you  do  when 
you  go  out  on  the  street  corner  and 
face  a  congregation  of  from  one  doz- 
en to  five  hundred,  all  of  whom 
hope  to  see  you  fail,  and  would  not 
give  you  God-speed  if  they  could 
help  it?  Now,  if  it  almost  breaks 
your  heart  to  practice  a  little  in  the 
Sunday  schools  and  Mutual  Improve- 
ment associations,  if  it  blanches  your 
cheeks  and  sets  your  heart  fluttering 
till  you  almost  faint,  that  is  the  place 
to  begin,  so  that  when  you  go  out  into 
the  world  you  won't  be  humiliated 
because  you  did  not  improve  the  op- 
portunities that  were  offered  to  you 
at  home. 

It  is  not  all  pleasantness  in  the  mis- 
sionary field.  Doors  are  slammed  in  oui 
faces  by  the  wicked  and  indifferent. 
If  they  see  a  long  tail  coat  at  the  door, 
they  say  to  their  servants,  "Shut  the 
door  as  quick  as  you  can  without  being 
impolite."  It  would  surprise  you  to 
hear  the  first  discourses  of  your  boys; 
they  fail  because  they  would  not  do 
the  things  that  were  required  of  them 
at  home.  But  they  go  to  the  Lord  after 
failure,  and  cry  unto  Him,  and  say, 
"Father,  I  knew  that  I  was  remiss,  I 
know  that  I  didn't  do  the  things  I 
should  have  done  at  home,  I  see  now 
what  I  have  lost;  I  am  no  credit  to  the 
Church  that  thou  hast  established  in 
the  earth,  but  bear  with  me,  my  Father, 
and  have  mercy  upon  me."  The  young 
Elder  then  goes  out,  and  the  Lord  hav- 
ing mercy  upon  him,  he  begins  to 
speak,  the  power  of  God  falls  upon 
him,  and  he  is  lifted  above  himseli. 
Sometimes,  when  a  few  blessings  of  this 
kind  fall  upon  the  young  man,  his  head 


swells,  and  he  says  to  himself,  Now  I 
can  do  it,  I  will  preach  on  the  corner, 
on  such  and  such  a  principle.  He  goes 
there,  and,  in  order  that  the  Lord  may 
teach  him  that  he  is  nothing,  but  that 
the  Lord  is  all  in  all,  the  Spirit  is 
withheld  from  him,  and  he  experiences 
another  failure.  He  learns  then  how 
powerless  he  is,  and  says,  "I  am  noth- 
ing, but  the  Lord  God  is  all  in  all,"  and 
confesses  his  weakness.  By  and  by, 
when  he  comes  home,  you  say  that  it  is 
as  though  a  miracle  had  been  pei- 
formed  upon  him.  Well,  you  did  not 
see  his  struggles,  you  did  not  see  what 
made  him  the  man  that  he  is.  It  was 
the  humiliation  that  he  got  in  the  field, 
and  the  efforts  that  he  made.  If 
he  sticks  to  the  faith,  an} 
don't  go  back  to  his  old-time  hab- 
its, I  will  tell  you  what  he  will  be 
in  the  future:  He  will  be  a  man  that 
will  never  again  think  "I  am  every- 
thing." He  will  be  always  ready  to  say, 
It  is  God  that  accomplishes  these 
things;  it  was  the  Lord  that  did  this, 
and  the  Lord  that  did  the  other;  and 
he  will  never  ascribe  the  success  of 
this  work  to  the  hand  of  any  man. 

God  bless  the  people;  bless  the  fruits 
of  this  conference;  comfort  the  servants 
of  God;  and  may  the  work  of  the  Lord 
roll  forth  in  majesty  and  power  greater 
than  it  ever  has  since  the  beginning.  I 
ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH. 
(Acting  President  Northern  States 
Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  that 
you  should  offer  in  my  behalf  a  sol- 
emn prayer,  that  the  man-fearing  spirit 
that  sometimes  comes  upon  the  Elders, 
when  appearing  before  the  Saints,  may 
be  taken  from  me  a  short  time,  while  I 
report  the  condition  of  the  mission 
known  as  the  Northern  States.  This 
man-fearing  spirit  does  not  bother  the 
Elders  as  much  before  an  audience  in 
the  world  as  it  does  before  an  audience 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  Here  we  are 
conscious  that  the  majority  of  the  audi- 
ence, if  not  all,  understand  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  as  well  as  we;  but 
when  appearing  before  the  world,  we 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


52 

know  that  we  have  something  new  to 
tell,  we  know  that  we  have  been  sent 
with  the  message  of  life  and  salva- 
tion to  declare  unto  them,  and  God  has 
blessed  us  and  sent  us  forth,  and  we 
feel  if  we  are  humble  that  we  can  tell 
the  people  something.  If  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  were  not  possessed  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  if  they  did  not  come 
seeking  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  they  would  go  from  the  meet- 
ings dissatisfied  with  that  which  had 
been  spoken  in  their  hearing.  The 
Latter-day  Saints,  when  they  come  to- 
gether, and  listen  to  the  principle  of 
faith,  or  repentance,  or  baptism,  or  the 
Holy  Ghost,  or  any  one  of  the  simple 
principles  of  the  Gospel  declared  by 
the  Elders,  if  in  possession  of  the  Spirit 
of  God,  that  spirit  manifests  unto  them 
that  which  is  satisfying  to  the  soul.  I 
have  heard  testimonies  concerning  reve- 
lations of  God  given  unto  different 
people  in  the  audience  while  some  hum- 
ble Elder  was  speaking  concerning  the 
restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  And  that  one  thing  gives  me 
hope  in  attending  meetings,  no  matter 
who  the  speaker  is,  if  my  heart  is  right, 
God  will  bless  me  according  to  my  de- 
sires, and  I  go  away  built  up  in  faith 
and  strengthened  in  the  testimony  of 
Jesus.  I  feel  in  listening  to  sermons 
that  have  been  delivered  in  this  con- 
ference and  the  reports  of  the  differ- 
ent missions,  that  we  have  heard  no 
new  nor  startling  doctrines,  but  be- 
cause of  the  Spirit  that  has  been  with 
us,  many  thousands  of  hearts,  I  know, 
will  go  from  this  conference  feeling  that 
it  is  good  to  have  assembled  together 
as  a  body  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is 
good  to  have  had  the  privilege  of  list- 
ening to  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  and 
opening'  our  hearts  and  minds  to  the 
revelations  that  God  bestows  upon  the 
earnest  seeker.  I  rejoice  to  have  the 
privilege,  after  16  months,  of  again  as- 
sembling with  the  Saints,  and  under 
the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
feast  upon  the  good  things  of  our  Fa- 
ther's kingdom. 

Two  years  ago,  nearly,  when  I  was 
called  to  go  upon  a  mission,  friends 
reminded   me   that   I   had   only  been 


home  a  short  time,  and  that  there  were 
other  men  who  were  financially  better 
qualified  to  go  than  I  was.  I  stated, 
when  Apostle  Cowley  asked  me  if  I 
would  go  upon  a  mission,  that  I  had 
been  home  only  a  little  over  four  years. 
He  told  me  he  didn't  care  if  I  had 
been  home  only  four  weeks,  "it  is  the 
will  of  the  Lord  that  you  go  upon  a 
mission."  I  was  unknowingly  trying 
to  prevent  the  fulfilment  of  a  prophecy 
that  was  made  that  I  would  go  upon 
a  mission  again  within  five  years  from 
the  time  I  returned  from  my  first  mis- 
sion. Now  I  am  thankful  to  my  Father 
in  heaven  I  decided  that  I  would  go. 
The  way  was  opened  up  whereby  I  have 
had  the  glorious  privilege  of  being 
again  associated  with  the  missionaries 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  They  are  a  grand  and 
noble  body  of  men  laboring  in  the 
Northern  states. 

We  have  in  that  mission  at  the  pres- 
ent time  a  few  less  than  100  Elders, 
and  if  those  who  have  been  there  two 
years,  or  near  that  time,  were  released 
we  should  have  less  than  75.  The  mis- 
sion is  so  good  that  we  are  at  least  50 
or  75  short  of  the  number  that  we  could 
use  conveniently.  When  we  landed  in 
the  mission,  I  found  President  Asahel 
H.  Woodruff  was  devoted  to  labor,  la- 
bor, labor.  Once  while  taking  lessons 
in  penmanship,  my  teacher  told  me  he 
would  give  me  three  rules  that  would 
make  me  a  good  penman  if  I  followed 
them.  Those  three  rules  were:  Practice 
intelligent  practice,  and  intelligent 
earnest  practice.  The  life  of  our  presi- 
dent, who  has  been  in  the  Northern 
States  mission  for  the  last  two  years 
and  a  half,  has  been  one  of  labor,  earn- 
est labor,  earnest  intelligent,  diligent 
labor.  He  has  sought,  night  and  day. 
to  instil  that  into  the  hearts  of  every 
one  of  the  Elders  there,  for  he  realized, 
and  often  said  to  them,  that  if  they 
would  labor  earnestly  and  diligently  for 
the  Lord  their  hearts  would  be  opened 
and  their  minds  quickened  with  the 
revelations  cf  our  Father,  and  they 
would  be  able  to  speak  unto  the  peo- 
ple. When  he  has  taught  the  young 
Elder  to  labor,  and  to  love  the  souls  of 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH. 


53 


men,  they  have  begun  to  develop  and 
seek  diligently  to  find  somebody  to 
preach  the  Gospel  to.  This  summer, 
many  of  our  young  men  have  not  been 
satisfied  to  go  upon  the  streets  in 
company  with  three  or  four  others,  but 
were  ready  to  avail  themselves  of  every 
opportunity  to  preach  the  Gospel  on 
street  corners  by  themselves;  and  being 
alone,  in  humility  have  gone  before  the 
people  and  preached  night  after  night. 
We  have  several  that  I  could  mention 
in  particular  who  have,  this  summer, 
gone  as  often  as  25  times  alone  upon 
the  streets  of  Chicago,  and  proclaimed 
the  Gospel.  Last  year,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  three  or  four  instances,  we  had 
no  success  upon  the  streets  in  the  city 
of  Chicago.  Thousands  of  the  people 
received  our  tracts,  and'  went  on  with- 
out stopping  to  hear  us.  This  year,  we 
selected  three  corners,  and  appointed 
two  Elders  for  each  to  hold  meeting 
there  every  night  that  weather  permit- 
ted. I  am  pleased  to  report  that,  at 
two  of  the  corners  selected,  we  have  a 
standing  congregation  of  from  40  to 
100  people  every  night,  when  the  wea- 
ther is  favorable.  If  we  fail  to  come, 
the  people  are  disappointed.  Now  the 
weather  is  beginning  to  get  cold,  we 
have  as  many  at  25  people  who  attend 
our  hall  meetings,  as  a  result  of  meet- 
ings held  on  one  corner  selected  early 
in  the  spring. 

I  rejoice  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and 
I  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  that  He 
has  given  to  the  Elders  in  the  Northern 
states.  Most  of  us  are  young,  and  we 
desire  to  do  the  will  of  the  Lord,  for 
we  have  no  other  purpose  in  view  while 
abiding  in  those  cold  and  barren  states, 
where  there  are  but  few  of  the  honest 
in  heart,  considering  the  many  millions 
of  people 

I  desire  to  tell  one  circumstance,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  shows  there 
is  still  faith  in  the  earth.  We  were  fa- 
vored with  a  visit,  about  three  weeks 
ago  from  Apostle  George  A.  Smith 
And  President  Asahel  H.  Woodruff, 
and,  on  the  Sabbath  day  they  were 
there  a  little  girl,  who  had  heard  of  the 
power  of  God  that  was  in  the  Church, 
but  had  never  seen  an  Elder,  asked 
her  mother  if  she  could  come  to  meet- 


ing and  be  blessed  by  the  Elders,  be- 
lieving that  she  would  be  healed.  The 
little  girl  was  11  years  of  age,  and 
when  she  was  only  about  4  years  of 
age,  her  father,  who  was  a  drunk- 
ard, came  home  and  threw  her 
across  the  room.  The  result  was  that 
one  leg  was  disabled,  and  for  six  years 
she  had  worn  a  steel  frame  around  her 
body,  never  taking  it  off,  and  it  had 
formed  hard  sores  upon  her.  She  came 
to  the  meeting  and  was  administered 
unto  according  to  her  request.  During 
the  night  she  heard  a  voice  telling  her 
to  take  off  that  frame,  and  she  did  so. 
She  then  went  to  her  mother's  room 
and  said  that  the  Lord  had  healed  her. 
One  of  her  legs  has  increased  two  or 
three  inches  in  length;  it  is  still  a  little 
shorter  than  the  other  now,  but  God 
healed  her  through  the  power  of  faith. 
We  could  tell  you  many  other  things  the 
Lord  has  done  for  the  honest  in  heart. 
He  has  blessed  the  Elders  with  the 
spirit  of  humility.  He  has  blessed  them 
also  with  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel, 
and  with  a  love  for  the  souls  of  their 
fellow  men. 

There  is  a  sect  in  the  Northern  States 
known  as  the  Dowieites,  and  they  are 
teaching  faith  in  God,  and  repentance, 
very  vigorously;  they  are  also  teaching 
baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins.  They 
are  practising  "the  word  of  wisdom;" 
and  in  their  city  of  10,000  people  there 
is  not  a  place  where  you  can  buy  liquor, 
nor  tobacco,  nor  a  piece  of  swine  flesh. 
A  number  of  these  people,  within  the 
last  month  or  two,  have  testified  in 
our  meetings,  and  applied  for  baptism, 
who  were  brought  to  believe  on  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  through  Dowie's 
preaching.  If  they  have  been  brought 
to  believe  on  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
through  this  man,  he  has  done  that 
much  good.  I  believe  it  is  a  glorious 
thing  to  be  born  in  a  Christian  country, 
and  be  taught  to  believe  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  no  matter  what  denomin- 
ation one  may  belong  to,  it  is  that  much 
in  favor  of  leading  us  to  the  true  church 
of  Christ.  We  are  watching  that  people, 
and  think  it  probable  that  in  the  course 
of  a  few  years  the  honest  in  heart 
among  them  will  accept  the  Gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus. 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  pray  that  God  will  bless  us  all,  that 
we  may  open  our  hearts  and  desire  to 
know  the  will  of  God;  that  we  may 
gain  from  the  many  good  things 
said  here  that  which  shall  comfort 
our  souls,  that  we  may  go 
away  built  up  in  faith,  and  with 
love  toward  our  fellow  men  throughout 
all  the  earth.  We  ought  to  teach  our 
young  men,  all  of  them,  to  open  their 
hearts,  for  the  young  man  who  cannot 
pray  to  his  Father  in  heaven  in  earnest 
will  never  convert  a  soul  in  the  world. 
He  must  love  the  souls  of  men,  ho 
must  open  his  heart  in  prayer,  in  song, 
and  in  earnest  speech  before  he  can 
impress  the  people  that  he  believes 
what  he  is  saying. 

May  God  help  us  all  to  be  true  to  the 
covenants  we  have  made  to  uphold 
and  sustain  the  laws  of  God  upon  the 
earth,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 

I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  meetings 
of  this  conference,  and  in  the  testimo- 
nies that  have  been  borne  as  to  the  di- 
vinity of  the  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged. I  might  say  that  I  have  teen 
specially  pleased  with  the  reports  that 
have  come  from  the  mission  fields.  It 
has  brought  to  us  the  missionary  spirit 
that  we  all  admire  so  much  in  our 
young  men  when  they  return  to  our 
midst.  I  also  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  it- 
self, the  principles  which  have  been  re- 
vealed by  our  Father  in  heaven  for  the 
salvation  of  His  children;  and  I  feel  a 
deep  interest  in  spreading  abroad 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth  a 
knowledge  of  the  Gospel  that  our  Fath- 
er has  restored  to  the  earth  in  the  day 
and  age  in  which  we  live. 

In  the  remarks  of  Brother  Asahel 
Woodruff,  in  the  tabernacle,  this  morn- 
ing, he  stated  that  the  people,  or  a 
great  many  of  them,  had  ceased  to  re- 
gard the  Bible  as  any  particular  au- 
thority, and  in  presenting  the  Gospel  it 
was  necessary  to  show  them  its  philos- 
ophy. They  are  no  longer  content  to 
accept  of  a  faith  because  it  harmonizes 
with  the  revealed  word  of  God,  it  must 


be  presented  to  them  in  a  form  that 
will  appeal  to  their  reason.  In  other 
words,  they  must  have  religion  present- 
ed to  them  scientifically  before  they  will 
accept  it. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  scientific  religion; 
it  is  based  upon  eternal  principles  of 
truth,  and  truth  is  science.  I  thought 
while  he  was  speaking  this  morning, 
how  natural  it  is  that  men  and  women 
should  be  saved  through  the  operations 
of  that  only  true  Gospel,  which  our 
Father  has  revealed;  and  how  natural 
are  the  principles  that  have  been  re- 
vealed to  us,  and  how  they  appeal  to 
the  reason  of  intelligent  men  and  wo- 
men. There  are  many  scientific  truths 
stated  in  the  Bible,  but  none  of  them 
any  more  scientific  than  this,  that 
"This  is  Eternal  Life  to  know  Thee, 
the  true  and  living  God  and  Jesus 
Christ  whom  Thou  hast  sent."  It  re- 
quires only  a  little  reflection  to  come  to 
the  conclusion  that  it  is  so  in  very 
deed.  Every  man  and  woman  must 
recognize  the  fact  that  we  are  sur- 
rounded by  influences  that  are  abroad 
in  the  world.  There  is  one  power  and 
influence  that  is  endeavoring  to  elevate 
and  exalt  mankind;  it  is  the  Spirit  of 
God  that  issues  forth  from  His  pres- 
ence, and  is  bestowed  upon  all  those 
who  diligently  seek  Him.  If  we  lend  a 
willing  ear  to  the  whisperings  of  the 
still  small  voice  it  will  lead  us  to  works 
of  righteousness. 

There  is  also  another  influence  that  is 
abroad  in  the  land,  and  everywhere  felt 
among  the  children  of  men,  that  is 
leading  downward,  and  if  we  harken  to 
that  voice  it  will  lead  us  to  destruc- 
tion. Have  you  never  felt  the  power 
of  these  influences  working  upon  you? 
Does  it  need  to  be  proven  to  you  as  in- 
dividuals that  these  influences  are 
abroad  in  the  world?  Have  they  not 
come  under  your  own  observation?  Ev- 
ery man  and  woman  should  say,  Yes, 
I  have  felt  them  for  myself.  On  the 
one  hand  we  listen  to  the  Spirit  of  God; 
we  hearken  to  His  voice,  and  it  leads 
us  to  the  doing  of  those  things  tJz&t 
are  in  harmony  with  the  will  of  the 
Father;  it  causes  our  hearts  to  be  filled 


ELDER   RULON   S.  WELLS. 


with  joy,  it  teaches  us  to  love  our 
neighbor,  to  be  honest,  to  be  truthful, 
tao  live  a  godly  life  and  to  keep  our- 
selves unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the 
world.  On  the  other  hand,  if  we  listen 
to  the  evil  power  (which  is  just  as  much 
a  reality  as  the  existence  of  that  good 
power  and  influence),  if  we  hearken  to 
that,  it  will  lead  us  to  the  doing  of  those 
things  that  are  evil,  it  will  teach  us  to 
cheat  our  neighbor,  to  lie  and  steal,  and 
will  lead  us  down  into'  the  depths  of 
misery;  it  will  lead  us  into  a  life  of  de- 
bauchery crime  and  sin.  The  reason 
we  find  men  both  good  and  bad  is  be- 
cause these  influences  are  abroad  in  the 
world. 

There  is  another  scientific  statement 
recorded  in  the  Scripture,  which  says: 
"There  is  a  spirit  in  man,  and  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Almighty  giveth  him 
understanding."  The  spirit  that  be- 
longs to  us,  that  gives  animation  to 
our  bodies,  is  subject  to  these  in- 
fluences, and  the  Spirit  of  God  will 
give  unto  us  understanding;  it  will 
give  unto  us  knowledge;  it  will  bring 
us  unto  God.  It  is  also  true  that  the 
evil  spirit  will  darken  our  minds,  and 
rob  us  of  the  understanding  we  ought 
to  have.  These  are  realities,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  We  are  in  the 
midst  of  them,  for  these  powers  and 
these  influences  are  operating  upon  the 
minds  of  the  children  of  men.  Blessed 
is  he  whose  soul  yearns  to  be  guided 
and  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  God.  Hap- 
py is  he  if  he  lends  a  willing  ear  to 
the  good  influence  that  is  trying  to 
purify  and  save  his  soul.  But  un- 
fortunate and  unhappy  is  he  who  yields 
to  the  power  and  influence  of  the  ad- 
versary. 

When  Paul  was  preaching  this  Gos- 
pel of  the  kingdom  in  Athens,  he  found 
the  people  in  ignorance.  They  had 
been  worshiping  false  gods.  They  had 
been  offering  their  devotions  to  Miner- 
va, the  goddess  of  wisdom,  and  to  Nep- 
tune, the  god  of  the  sea,  to  Mars,  the 
god  of  war,  and  many  other  false  dei- 
ties whom  they  were  worshiping.  But 
among  that  people  were  some  who  be- 
gan to  yearn  after  the  true  and  living 
God.      They  knew  that  there  was  an- 


other power.      Their  own  observation 
had  convinced  them  of  that,  so  they 
undertook  to  erect  an  altar  in  His  hon- 
or, and  upon  that  altar  they  inscribed 
the  words,    "To    the    unknown  God." 
Paul  took  that  inscription  for  his  theme 
and  text,  and  he  said,  "Him  whom  ye 
ignorantly  worship,  him  declare  I  unto 
you."     Later  on  he  admonished  them 
that  they  should  "Seek  the  Lord  if  hap- 
ly they  mierht  feel  after  Him  and  find 
him,  though  he  be  not  far  distant  from 
every  one  of  us,  for  in  him  we  live 
and  move  and  have  our  being."  He 
proclaimed  the  existence  of  the  Spirit 
of  God  that  issued  forth  from  the  pres- 
ence of  the  Father,  and  is  everywhere 
to  be  found.     I  know  that  the  passage 
I  quoted  in  the  first  place  is  pretty 
thoroughly  understood  by  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,   that  this  is  eternal  life, 
this  is  salvation,  that  we  may  learn 
to  know  the  Lord.     Then  it  ought  to 
be  in  a  plan  of  salvation  that  is  scienti- 
fic in  its  nature,  that  men  and  women 
may  be  brought  to  the  knowledge  of 
God,  because  that  is  eternal  life.  The 
way  to  obtain  that  knowledge,  then,  is 
to  get  the  Spirit  of  God,  because  no  man 
knoweth  the  things  of  God  but  by  the 
Spirit  of  God  that  is  in  him.     Any  plan 
which  has  for  its  purpose  the  bringing 
of  men  and  women  to  that  knowledge 
must  indeed  be  founded  upon  scientific 
principles.     The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  peculiarly  adapted  to  the  acquisi- 
tion of  that  knowledge.     Its  foundation 
is  laid  upon  a  knowledge  of  that  theme, 
upon  an  understanding  of  that  princi- 
ple.    When  you  see  a  man  or  a  woman 
hearken  to  the  still  small  voice,  endeav- 
oring io  do  right  and  to  learn  and  lean 
upon  the  influence   that   is  uplifting, 
and  which  is  everywhere  inducing  men 
and  women  to  be  better,  their  hearts 
go  out  to  that  power  and  influence.  And 
what  is  ii?   It  is  faith  in  God,  the  true 
and  living  God.     Our  hearts  go  out  to 
Him.     It  is  a  natural  principle  that 
causes  us  to  lean  to  the  good  influence, 
to  lend  a  willing  ear  and  to  seek  after 
Him,   whom  to  know   is   life  eternal. 
Not  satisfied  with  the  false  gods  that 
are  in  this  world,  our  hearts  yearned 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


for  the  true  and  living  God.    That  is 
faith;  a  natural  principle. 

In  order  that  we  may  come  to  a 
knowledge  of  God,  that  the  Lord  may 
be  pleased  to  draw  nigh  unto  us,  and 
that  we  may  be  qualified  to  receive  an 
additional  outpouring  of  that  Holy 
Spirit,  what  are  we  to  do?  We  must 
■set  ourselves  in  order,  forsake  our  evil 
ways,  and  put  ourselves  in  harmony 
with  the  Good  Spirit  that  is  leading  us 
upward.  That  is  repentance,  another 
natural  law,  without  which  we  cannot 
come  to  a  full  kno»wledge  of  God. 

What  else  do  we  yearn  for?  Forgive- 
ness of  sin,  that  we  might  stand  clean 
before  the  throne  of  God,  and  be  quali- 
fied to  receive  additional  light  which 
comes  from  the  Spirit  of  God.  Baptism 
is  natural,  too.  I  thank  God  that  He 
established  this  ordinance,  and  put  this 
law  in  His  Church,  that  we  may  be 
washed  free  from  sin,  and  be  prepared 
to  receive  His  Holy  Spirit. 

What  else  is  there  in  this  Gospel  that 
is  natural  and  scientific?  Why,  the  ob- 
taining of  this  Spirit;  and  God  has  in- 
stituted an  ordinance  that  it  might  be 
conferred  upon  us  by  His  divine  author- 
ity, the  ordinance  of  laying  on  of  hands, 
that  we  might  receive  the  Spirit  of  God. 
These  are  some  of  the  principles  that 
constitute  truly  scientific  religion. 

Some  say,  "I  am  not  going  to  exercise 
faith;  I  want  to  have  things  proven  to 
me  first."    You  have  got  to  manifest 
faith  in  God,  or  you  will  give  evidence 
of  being  on   the   side   of   Satan,  just 
as  sure  as  you  live.    You  have  got  to 
lend  your  ear  to  the  Spirit  of  God,  or 
you  will  hearken  to  the  spirit  of  the 
adversary,  who  is  trying  to  drag  you 
down.    These  are  the  influences  that 
are  abroad  in  the  world.     They  are 
realities,  and  you  know  it,  every  one 
of  you.    You  cannot  ignore  the  power 
of  God.    The  Spirit  of  God  is  striving 
among  the  children  of  men,  to  lift  them 
up  and  bless  those  that  will  hearken. 
And  the  spirit  of  evil  is  trying  to  drag 
you  down,  striving  with  you  and  seek- 
ing your  destruction,  just  as  sure  as 
you  are  living  here  today.    Satan  has 
a  very  evil  power,  a  very  evil  influence, 
a  very  evil  name,   and  his   name  Is 
adapted  to  his  character.   Did  you  ever 


stop  to  analyze  it?  Let  me  just  point 
out  a  few  things  to  you  about  this  evil 
spirit  that  is  abroad  in  the  world,  that 
I  may  emphasise  the  character  of  the 
being  who  is  trying  to  destroy  youi 
souls.  We  call  him  the  devil.  Just  im- 
agine his  name  as  being  written  upon 
the  wall  here.  It  is  bad  in  all  its  parts: 
Strike  off  the  d,  and  it  is  evil,  and  that 
is  bad;  strike  off  the  e  and  it  is  vile; 
strjke  of  the  v  and  it  is  il 
(ill),  and  that  is  bad,  too;  then 
strike  off  the  i,  and  give  it  a  little 
English  accent,  and  it  is  hell!  And 
that  is  just  where  he  will  take  you,  if 
you  listen  to  his  voice.  Let  us  then 
seek  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  believe  In 
this  natural  religion  which  God  has* 
revealed  for  the  savation  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  Amen. 

J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 
I  feel  a  good  deal,  at  this  time,  as  the 
chaplain  did  in  one  of  the  Utah  Leg- 
islative assemblies  when  my  father  put 
him  on  oath.    Father  was  a  little  ac- 
quainted with  him.    They  had  crossed 
the  plains  together,  and  father  knew 
what  a  long  and  tedious  prayer  he 
usually     offered,       so     father  said, 
"Will   you   pray   briefly   and   to  the 
point."    Well  now,  I  feel  that  I  will 
have  to  talk  briefly  and  to  the  point.  I 
trust  that,  through  the  inspiration  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  I  may  make  myself 
clear,  for  sometimes  on  these  occasions 
we  go  down  on  record,  that  is,  what 
we  say  is  placed  in  print  Now  I  am  not 
fearful  to  open  my' mouth,  and  endea- 
vor to  use  the  time  profitably  which  the 
Lord  has  given  me   I  have  lived  in  this 
Church  long  enough  to  know  something 
about  it,  and  I  don't  have  to  go  to 
strangers  to  ask  them  anything  about 
this  work,  and  I  don't  propose  to  accept 
their  statements,  unless  they  are  har- 
monious with  my  views. 

I  was  born  in  this  Church,  and  I 
thank  God  for  it.  It  comprises  every- 
thing that  is  good,  everything  that  is 
pure,  everything  that  is  elevating,  not- 
withstanding all  that  is  said  against 
it. 

I  can  tell  my  history  in  a  few  min- 
utes; if  I  stood  before  the  bar  of  God 
tomorrow,  and  the  Lord  asked  we  what 


ELDER    J.    GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


57 


I  had  been  doing,  I  could  tell  him  in  a 
very  few  words.  For  15  years  of  my  life, 
I  was  disciplined  and  instructed  by  my 
father,  which  has  been  an  anchor  to 
my  soul.  The  things  I  was  taught  in 
my  childhood  (father  died  when  I  was 
15  years  old.)  have  been  the  savor  of 
life  to  my  soul;  and  the  Holy  Ghost  has 
brought  it  to  my  remembrance.  For 
12  years  of  my  life,  after  his  death,  I 
was  as  free  as  the  birds  that  fly  in  the 
»ir;  there  was  no  restraint  further 
than  the  counsel  from  my  mother.I  took 
no  active  part  in  the  Church.  I  was 
just  as  free  as  non-members  of  the 
Church  feel  that  they  are  free.  That 
is  a  part  of  my  history  I  am  not  mak- 
ing much  noise  about;  I  am  trying  to 
forget  seme  things  that  I  did.  How- 
ever, I  don't  want  you  to  be  impressed 
with  the  idea  that  I  committed  any- 
thing criminal,  anything  that  would 
deprive  me  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  But  I 
am  sorry,  O  how  sorry,  that  there  was 
no  restraint  nor  responsibility  placed 
upon  me,  that  1  was  not  actively  en- 
gaged in  Church  work  during  those  12 
years.  But  after  that,  for  24 
years  past  I  have  been  more  or  less 
actively  engaged  in  the  ministry,  and 
the  more  I  am  employed  in  it  the  more 
firmly  I  believe  in  the  Gospel;  and  the 
more  I  testify  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ 
and  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet,  the 
stronger  I  believe  it. 

We  must  have  a  knowledge  that  Je- 
sus is  the  Christ,  or  we  can  not  stand. 
Latter-day  Saints  who  have  failed  are 
those  who  have  not  obtained  a  know- 
ledge that  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  all  such 
are  liable  to  apostatize.  I  am  afraid 
there  will  be  a  lot  of  apostates,  and 
that  worries  me. 

You  can't  live  on  borrowed  light  any 
longer.  This  Church  has  passed  through 
many  close  places,  and,  as  my  father 
said,  it  will  pass  through  many  othei 
close  places  before  victory  and  triumph 
is  given  to  you  or  given  to  the  Church. 
I  know  a  good  deal  more  about  this 
Church  than  the  man  did,  one  of  those 
strangers  that  come  in  our  midst,  who 
went  on  a  hill  here  recently  and  stood 
in  an  ant  bed,  and  when  the  ants  com- 
menced to  bite  he  commenced  to  curse 


the  "Mormons."  I  suppose  he  thought 
they  were  "Mormon"  ants,  and  he  held 
us  responsible  for  them. 

Now  there  are  a  lot  of  people  talking 
about  us,  and  we  have  a  great  deal  of 
cheap  notoriety,  but  I  am  not  at  all 
concerned  about  it.  I  am  not  worrying 
about  it;  I  don't  stand  with  bated 
breath  for  fear  this  Church  will  be  de- 
stroyed. This  is  the  work  of  God;  this 
is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  There 
are  not  devils  enough  to  destroy  it,  and 
it  can't  be  destroyed  by  men.  If  it 
could  have  been  destroyed,  some  who 
claim  to  be  members  in  the  Church 
would  have  destroyed  it  years  ago.  I 
don't  care  how  much  harm  is  commit- 
ted Dy  pretended  members  of  tnis 
Church,  they  can't  destroy  it;  they  will 
destroy  themselves.  I  care  not  how 
many  apostates  attempt  it,  they  cannot 
destroy  this  Church, 

Now  I  want  to  serve  notice  on  all 
Catholic,  Methodist,  and  Presbyterian 
churches — I  don't  suppose  they  will  take 
my  advice;  they  never  have  done  up 
to  dale,  but  I  would  like  to  continue 
giving  them  good  advice — I  would  ad- 
vise them  never  to  receive  a  man  into 
their  church  that  had  been  a  Latter- 
day  Saint  and  apostatized  from  the 
unurch.  Such  individuals  will  never 
make  good  Catholics,  good  Methodists, 
nor  good  Presbyterians.  They  will  be 
agitators,  and  make  a  deal  of  mischief 
in  those  churches,  because  they  will  be 
bo  restless  and  unsettled  that  no  one 
near  them  will  have  any  peace  or  rest; 
ana  tney  will  get  to  asking  a  lot  of 
questions.  The  first  thing  they  will  ask 
is,  "Where  do  you  get  your  authority 
from?"  and  that  will  worry  you  a  little. 
And  they  will  ask  other  hard  questions, 
and  make  trquble  and  mischief.  And 
then  they  are  no  account  anyhow,  as 
members  of  any  church. 

You  never  saw  an  apostate  in  your 
life,  that  was  a  Latter-day  Saint  and 
did  right  ud  to  a  certain  time  ana 
then  apostatised,  that  has  ever  settled 
down  and  been  satisfied  in  any  other 
church  in  the  world.  They  are  not  even 
satisfied  with  Spiritualism,  notwith- 
standing they  may  talk  with  spirits 
and  get  a  great  amount  of  information; 


58 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


they  wont  stay  with  that  sect. 

And,  by  the  way,  I  would  like  to  serve 
notice  on  the  Republicans  and  Demo- 
crats that  the  individuals  of  whom  I 
have  been  speaking  will  never  be  good 
Democrats  or  Republicans  either;  they 
will  not  stay  with  their  party. 

Now  I  want  to  serve  notice  on  apos- 
tates. I  am  willing  to  carry  the  olive 
branch  in  my  hand  when  I 
associate  with  the  children  of 
men  in  the  world,  I  have  nothing 
but  the  kindliest  feelings  towards 
them;  but  when  an  apostate  lifts  up 
his  voice  against  this  people,  when  he 
makes  dastardly  charges  against  the 
Latter-day  Saints  he  lies,  and  I  have 
no  patience  with  him.  I  have 
breathed  this  mountain  air  so  long 
that  I  feel  inclined  to  discard  a  little 
of  the  Gospel  and  knock  such  men 
down,  and  repent  afterward.  I  want 
to  say  to  an  apostate,  or  to  any  man 
that  has  been  born  and  bred  in  the 
Church,  he  is  a  coward  to  lift  up  his 
"voice  against  this  people.  We  are  a 
little  handful,  only  about  300,000,  with 
over  100,000  children  among  the  num- 
ber. If  apostates  had  their  way  the 
whole  United  States  would  be  against 
us.  Persons  who  have  lived  in  this 
country  and  received  all  that  they 
own  from  this  people,  and  who  lift 
their  voices  against  us  are  cowards. 
Whenever  any  man  or  woman  wants 
to  leave  this  Church,  they  have  a 
right  to  do  so,  and  it  is  our  duty  to 
treat  them  right,  to  extend  to  them 
every  courtesy  and  kindness,  and  be 
their  friend,  if  they  refrain  from  lying 
and  persecuting  us.  This  is  God's  work, 
and  just  as  sure  as  He  lives,  and  as  we 
breathe  and  have  a  being,  this  work 
will  come  off  triumphant.  There  may 
not  be  very  many  of  us  left,  but,  let 
the  number  be  ever  so  few,  it  will 
succeed. 

I  want  to  say  in  conclusion,  the  only 
discipline  I  have  had  was  by  my  own 
father,  up  to  15  years  of  age.  For 
12  years  after  that  time  I  was  under 
no  responsibility,  but  since  then  I 
have  been  actively  engaged  in  this 
Church.  I  have  been  in  business  of 
different  kinds;  I  have  been  a  farmer, 


a  stock  raiser,  a  real  estate  man,  and 
an  implement  man,  but  I  never  had 
one  of  the  Apostles,  or  any  one  of  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  interfere 
or  even  give  me  any  advice  or  counsel 
in  all  those  years  of  business.  The 
only  thing  I  am  sorry  for  is  that  I 
didn't  have  sense  enough  to  ask  ad- 
vice. I  have  labored  in  the  ministry 
for  13  years,  and  have  been  one  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  have 
labored  with  the  Apostles,  in  close  as- 
sociation with  them,  and  none  of  them 
have  ever  offered  any  suggestions  or 
dictation  in  any  way  pertaining  to  my 
fi-anchise  or  political  position.  I 
knew  Brigham  Young  almost  as  well 
as  I  knew  my  father.  I  knew  Daniel 
H.  Wells,  a  counselor  of  Brigham 
Young  and  associate  of  my  father.  I 
have  known  all  these  brethren  down  to- 
President  Smith,  and  can  testify  that 
all  the  counsel  and  advice  I  have  re- 
ceived from  them  has  been  a  savor 
of  life  unto  life.  It  has  been  a  God- 
send to  me,  and  I  am  grateful  that  I 
have  been  favored  because  of  my  as- 
sociation with  men  of  God,  who  have 
given  me  counsel,  such  counsel  that, 
if  I  follow  it,  will  bring  me  back  into 
the  presence  of  my  Eternal  Father. 

Now,  that  is  my  testimony  to  this 
congregation.  If  you  have  got  any- 
thing to  say  in  favor  of  this  people, 
whether  you  are  in  the  Church  or  out, 
say  it  fearlessly.  My  father  said  to  one 
of  his  grandchildren,  who  is  living 
in  Arizona  and  didn't  take  any  active 
part  in  the  Church:  "Billy,  these  are 
my  words  to  you,  don't  you  ever  lift 
up  your'  voice  against  this  people." 
Speaking  to  me  about  my  father's 
advice  to  him,  he  said,  "Golden,  I 
never  have,  and  I  thank  God  for  it." 
I  repeat  the  advice;  never  speak 
against  the  work  of  God,  nor  against 
His  people.  May  the  Lord  bless  you. 
Amen. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 
My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  de- 
sire very  much  that  you  may  assist  me 
by  your  faith  and  prayers.  I  endorse 
the  remarks  of  my  brethren  this  after- 
noon, and  also  the  remarks  and  teach- 


ELDER   SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


59 


ings  to  which  we  have  listened  dur- 
ing- this  general  conference.  I  rejoice 
with  you  in  a  testimony  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  that  he 
was  led  by  the  spirit  and  power  of 
inspiration.  When  he  went  into  a  re- 
tired place  to  plead  with  the  Lord  for 
wisdom  and  understanding,  he  was 
the  only  person  we  know  anything 
about,  in  that  day  and  time,  that  ap- 
proached God  in  such  faith  and  humil- 
ity that  the  Father  responded  to  him 
and  answered  his  prayer.  "When  he 
had  gained  knowledge  and  understand- 
ing, through  his  faith  and  humility 
and  in  answer  to  prayer,  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Lord  came  upon  him,  and 
he  was  given  the  prophetic  ministry 
that  continued  with  him  through  all 
the  remaining  portion  of  his  life,  and 
that  qualified  him  to  organize  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  He  was  always  true  to  hia 
calling  and  ministry.  How  impressive 
is  the  thought  expressed  in  the  beauti- 
ful words  we  read  or  sing  in  connec- 
tion with  one  of  our  Sunday  school 
hymns, — 

"Oh,  what  rapture  filled  his  bosom,  for 
he  saw  the  living  God." 

And  now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  hia 
life's  history  is  before  us,  an  open  book 
that  we  can  read  and  understand,  and 
we  may  profit  thereby  if  we  desire  to  do 
so.  All  of  those  chosen  by  him  were 
not  true  to  him,  nor  true  to  the  faith. 
If  he  had  been  lacking  in  the  power 
and  spirit  of  a  prophet  of  God,  do  you 
think  he  would  dare  to  have  said  to 
such  men  as  Oliver  Cowdery  and  Sid- 
ney Rigdon,  men  of  learning  of  the 
world,  who  stood  by  him  and  assisted 
in  the  organization  of  the  apostolic 
and  other  quorums  of  the  Priesthood, 
"Step  aside,  you  have  lost  the  spirit  of 
your  calling  and  ministry,  the  Church 
can  no  longer  fellowship  you,  and  we 
have  no  further  use  for  your  adminis- 
trations." This  was  the  course  that 
he  felt  obliged  to  take;  and  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord  in  all  their  ministry 
from  that  time  to  the  present  have 
arrayed  themselves  upon  the  side  of 
right,  of  truth,  and  eternal  justice, 
and  whether  alone  or  with  many  to 


sustain  them,  they  take  that  stand.  And 
so  they  continue  today  before  the  eyes 
of  the  world,  ministers  of  the  Lord. 
The  president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  Proph- 
et, Seer  and  Revelator,  to  the  Church, 
and  his  brethren  who  associate  with 
him  are  endowed  with  the  same  power 
and  the  same  prophetic  ministry. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  conversation  I 
had  with  a  gentleman  recently,  while 
traveling  to  the  north.  He  was  speak- 
ing of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  He  said 
he  had  read  some  portions  of  it.  He 
was  a  lawyer  from  the  state  of  Wyo- 
ming, and  a  tolerably  well  enlight- 
ened man,  so  far  as  I  could  judge.  He 
said,  "I  don't  believe  that  the  Prophet 
found  the  golden  plates,  and  translated 
the  BooV  of  Mormon  from  those  plates." 
"Well,"  I  said,  "what  is  your  belief 
about  the  matter?"  He  replied,  "I  be- 
lieve that  he  was  inspired  to  write  the 
Book  of  Mormon  just  the  same  as  Mat- 
thew, Mark,  Luke  and  John  were  in- 
spired to  write  their  history  of  the 
Lord's  mission  in  the  earth."  I  said, 
"That  is  a  pretty  good  thought,  and, 
for  a  man  that  does  not  understand  the 
facts,  I  think  your  position  might  be 
considered  fairly  consistent;  you  are 
without  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  how- 
ever." He  thanked  me  and  we*t  on  his 
way. 

I  read  an  account  of  an  incident  re- 
cently, to  which  I  will  call  your  atten- 
tion, being  reminded  of  it  by  the  re- 
marks of  brethren  who  have  preceded 
me.  A  physician  was  seeking  his  son, 
who  had  returned  to  his  home  from  a 
foreign  land,  and  they  met  in  the  city 
of  New  York.  The  Father  took  the  boy 
to  his  home  of  course,  and  he  said=- 
"We  will  draw  a  curtain  over  the  was- 
sail of  that  night,"  meaning  that  they 
spent  it  in  libations  to  Bacchus,  which 
Brother  Wells  failed  to  mention,  the 
god  of  the  wine  cup.  They  wished  to 
draw  a  curtain  over  that  night,  so  that 
we  would  not  know  about  their  revelry. 
A  son  of  mine  recently  returned  from  a 
mission  to  the  countries  of  Germany 
and  Switzerland,  after  an  absence  of 
three  years.  I  met  him  at  the  depot 
and  welcomed  him  home.  That  night 
we  did  not  have  any  wine  nor  strong 


«0 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


drink,  neither  were  there  cigars  passed 
around.  There  was  no  "smoker,"  as 
they  term  it,  established,  but  we  got 
down  on  our  knees  before  God,  jus  as 
many  of  you  have  done,  and  offered  up. 
a  prayer  of  thanksgiving  and  praise  to 
Almighty  God  that  another  of  His  sons 
had  gone  to  proclaim  the  Gospel,  gone 
to  foreign  lands  on  a  mission  of  lifs 
and  truth  to  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
and  had  come  home  pure  and  spotless 
as  when  he  left  his  father's  house. 
That  is  the  kind  of  a  celebration  we 
gave. 

This  people,  of  necessity,  stand  upon 
a  higher  plane  than  the  people  of  the 
world  occupy  today,  because  of  the 
knowledge  which  God  has  given  unto 
us,  and  because  of  the  ministration  of 
Prophets  and  Apostles,  whom  we  have 
with  us  today.  We  must  perforce  ac- 
centuate the  principles  of  truth  in 
which  we  believe,  and  although  the  ma- 
jority of  mankind  do  not  love  us,  do 
not  have  any  fellowship  for  us,  this 
does  not  change  our  position,  and  does 
not  change  our  responsibility.  We  can- 
not go  down  to  their  level.  If  we  could 
make  them  see  the  position  we  occupy, 
we  might  say,  "Please  pardon  us,  we 
cannot  come  down  to  your  level,  but  if 
you  will  allow  us,  we  will  raise  you  up 
to  the  higher  plane.  Your  statesmen 
may  become  mightier  men,  because, 
if  they  will  keep  the  commandments  of 
God,  they  will  be  filled  with  greater 
ability  to  benefit  and  bless  mankind. 
We  say  to  your  tradesmen,  and  railroad 
men,  and  to  all  the  great  moving  spir- 
its of  the  earth,  If  you  will  obey  the 
Gospel,  the  Lord  will  fit  and  prepare 
you  better  to  perform  every  duty  that 
is  laid  upon  you,  as  business  men  of 
the  world,  and  as  statesmen." 

I  remember  reading  in  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price,  and  in  other  revelations 
of  the  Lord,  how  the  Lord  stood  in  the 
midst  of  the  spirits  that  inhabited  the 
eternal  worlds,  and  it  is  written,  the 
Lord  saw  some  that  were  choice,  and 
He  said, "These  I  will  make  my  rulers." 
And  He  has  made  of  these  choice  spirits 
His  rulers  of  the  world.  More  especi- 
ally has  He  sent  those  spirits  in  this 
age  and  time  to  inhabit  tabernacles  and 


to  be  numbered  among  His  ministers 
in  this  Church  and  kingdom  that  He 
has  established  on  the  earth.  Among 
those  great  spirits  were  numbered  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  and  those  brethren 
who  have  followed  in  the  same  sacred 
and  prophetic  ministry. 

No  wonder  the  Lord  said  "They  are 
good,  and  of  these  I  will  make  my 
rulers."  He  has  kept  His  word;  and 
we  have  among  us  today  some  of 
those  choice  spirits,  and  they  are 
ruling  and  guiding  and  directing  the 
destinies  of  this  people  and  the  des- 
tinies of  mankind  throughout  the 
earth;  for,  in  spite  of  opposition  to 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the 
doctrines  that  lead  to  life  eternal,  the 
leaven  of  the  Gospel  is  being  felt  from 
one  end  of  Christianity  to  the  other. 
A  few  years  ago  I  remember  hearing 
some  minister  of  the  Gospel,  so  styled, 
preach  to  his  fellow  men  that  hell  was 
full  of  little  infants  who  had  not  been 
baptized,  and  that  all  mankind  who 
did  not  submit  to  be  sprinkled  in  the 
church  would  lose  all  chances  of  re- 
demption, and  would  burn  in  hell  for- 
ever. What  heresy,  what  vile  prin- 
ciples these  are.  But  the  people  of  the 
world,  sind  even  the  ministers  of  the 
gospels  that  they  teach,  are  now  in- 
clined to  leave  these  heresies  out  of 
their  doctrines,  and  are  preaching 
today  and  adopting  a  better  principle, 
a  principle  taught  by  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ,  when  he  said, 
"Suffer  little  children  to  come  unto 
me  and  forbid  them  not,  for  of  such 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  The 
ministers  are  beginning  to  realize  the 
truth  of  this  saying,  because  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord  have  accentuated 
it,  and  declared  that  children  are  in- 
nocent until  they  are  eight  years  of 
age,  and  are  saved  in  His  kingdom  in 
this  condition  of  innocency,  without 
baptism. 

Consider  also  the  principle  of  bap- 
tism for  the  dead,  that  sacred  prin- 
ciple that  goes  beyond  the  narrow 
limits  of  life  in  this  world.  I  remem- 
ber President  Peery,  who  was  at  one 
time  President  of  the  Weber  Stake  of 
Zion,    said   to   me:     "Brother  Young, 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


61 


when  I  heard  the  gospel  of  baptism 
for  the  dead  set  forth  by  one  of  the 
Elders,  in  my  native  state,  my  heart 
■was  touched,  and  I  could  have  bowed 
down  and  kissed  his  feet,  because  he 
opened  to  me  a  new  life,  a  new  world, 
and  I  was  caught  in  the  gospel  net. 
I  can  testify  too,"  said  he,  "from  that 
very  moment,  the  intelligence  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  illuminated  my  mind,  and 
I  learned  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and 
that  Joseph  was  His  chosen  prophet." 

All  these  glorious  principles,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  are  before  us, 
and  we  are  striving  to  live  by  them; 
and  although  the  world  does  not  en- 
dorse us,  or  love  us,  we  must  do  our 
whole  duty. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  and  give  you 
power  to  be  faithful  and  true  unto 
the  end  of  your  days,  for  He  has  said 
truly,  "Be  faithful  unto  death,  and  I 
will  give  you  a  crown  of  life."  Amen. 

The  Temple  choir  sang,  "Go  ye  mes- 
sengers of  glory." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Rodney  C. 
Badger. 

CLOSING  SESSION. 

In  the  Tabernacle,  at  2  p.  m. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

The  Overthrow  of  Gog  and  Magog. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Charles 
Kelly,  president  of  Boxelder  stake. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

How  Beautiful  Upon  the  Mountains. 

The  solo  parts  were  sung  by  John 
Robinson  and  Mrs.  Lizzie  Thomas  Ed- 
ward, with  admirable  skill. 

ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 

The  Youthful  not  ashani  d  of  the  Gospel— 
The  p«  ople  pr.ig.essiag— Dcvoiiou  of  the 
Leaders  of  the  Cnurch. 

The  sensation  that  one  feels  in  stand- 
ing before  such  hosts  of  Israel  for  the 
purpose  of  addressing  them  cannot  be 
described — it  can  only  be  felt.  It  is 
quite  overwhelming,  I  can  assure  you. 
I  would  like  to  impress  upon  those  pres- 
ent the  fact  that  the  acoustic  properties 
of  this  Tabernacle  are  wonderful.  The 
building  is    of  renown  the  world  over 


for  these  properties.  Therefore,  you 
must  remember  that  each  whisper,  each 
movement  of  the  body,  or  the  shuffling 
of  the  feet  of  any  person  in  the  con- 
gregation will  be  reverberated  and' 
echoed  throughout  the  building;  and 
when  these  sounds  are  multiplied,  then 
there  is  noise  and  confusion  in  the  whole 
house.  In  order  for  any  speaker's 
voice  to  carry  into  all  parts  of  this 
Tabernacle  and  penetrate  the  ears  of 
the  congregation,  all  present  must  re^ 
main  as  quiet  as  they  possibly  can. 
There  are  probably  between  ten  or 
twelve  thousand  people  here  this  after- 
noon, and  I  presume  all  have  come  for 
the  purpose  of  worshiping  God  in  spirit 
and  in  truth,  and  with  a  desire  to  hear 
all  that  may  be  said  by  those  who  shall 
address  you.  This  is  my  condition, 
and  I  rejoice  greatly  that  so  many  of 
the  Saints  evidently  have  the  same 
spirit  and  the  same  desire  to  hear  the 
word  of  the  Lord  from  His  servants. 
It  causes  me  to  praise  God  when  I  see 
the  Saints  so  anxious  to  hear  that  they 
willingly  stand  through  a  long  meeting, 
if  unable  to  find  seats,  for  the  purpose 
of  enjoying  the  spirit  of  the  confer- 
ence. 

The  statement  has  been  repeated  here 
which  was  made  by  some  of  our  friends 
(?)  that  there  are  many  of  the  younger 
Latter-day  Saints  who  are  becoming 
ashamed  of  the  Gospel.  Now,  I  ven- 
ture to  say  that  there  is  not  one  indi- 
vidual here  today  who  is  a  member  of 
the  Church  of  all  the  ten  or  twelve 
thousand  present,  who  is  ashamed  of 
the  Gospel.  And  if  there  are  any  such 
anywhere,  then,  of  course,  we  know 
that  they  themselves  are  at  fault,  that 
their  lives  do  not  conform  with  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel,  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  reproved  them, 
and  that  they  are  so  weak  in  character 
that  they  are  unable  to  repent  and  re- 
form and  place  themselves  in  harmony 
with  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel. 

My  labors  have  been  among  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  during  the  last  six 
months  I  have  visited  quite  a  number 
of  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  being  in  attend- 
ance at  a  Stake  conference  upon  each 
Sabbath    day.      consequently    I  have 


<62 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


visited  in  that  time  nearly  half 
of  the  Stakes  of  Zion.  I  can 
testify  to  these  friends  of  ours, 
and  to  all  the  Saints,  that  I  found  in 
each  of  the  Stakes  I  have  visited  the 
same  anxiety  among  the  members  of 
the  Church  to  attend  their  Stake  con- 
ferences as  we  see  maifest  here  today 
at  the  semi-annual  conference  of  the 
Church.  It  has  been  our  experience 
to  see  all  the  meeting  houses  crowded 
to  the  doors,  and  every  available  space 
occupied  by  young  and  old  who  were 
desirous  to  hear  what  might  be  said. 
I  am  convinced  that  there  is  a  general 
improvement  all  along  the  line  among 
the  people.  We  are  not  at  a  stand- 
still, neither  at  home  nor  abroad. 
It  is  quite  impossible  that  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  should  ever  come  to 
a  stand  still.  The  fact  that  one  of  our 
mission  presidents  may  from  time  to 
time  report  fewer  baptisms  than  usual 
is  no  evidence  whatever  that  the 
Church  is  at  a  standstill.  Many  are 
called,  but  few  are  chosen.  While  the 
baptisms  in  one  mission-field  or  an- 
other may  be  few,  nevertheless  the 
Elders  laboring  there  are  actively  en- 
gaged in  bearing  their  testimonies  to 
thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of 
people,  and  this  is  by  far  the  greater 
part  of  the  mission  of  the  Elders  who 
are  in  the  world  declaring  the  truth. 
This  Gospel  shall  be  preached  in  all  the 
world  as  a  witness  before  the  end  shall 
come,  and  if  these  servants  of  God  are 
standing  on  the  street  corners  in  the 
various  cities,  and  traveling  along  the 
highways  and  byways  of  the  villages 
and  towns,  raising  their  voices  in  pro- 
clamation of  the  truth,  as  well  as  bear- 
ing testimony  in  the  homes  of  the  peo- 
ple. I  say  to  you  that  the  work  of  God  is 
going  on  rapidly  in  the  earth,  and  we 
are  speeding  toward  the  ultimate  con- 
summation of  all  God's  purposes  con- 
cerning this  great  work  of  the  latter- 
day.  The  Saints  have  every  reason 
to  be  wonderfully  encouraged.  Faith 
is  increasing.  Faithfulness  to  duty  and 
in  keeping  Ihe  commanlrrents  of  God 
and  in  listening  to  the  counsels  of  the 
authorities  of  the  Church  is  becoming 


more  and  more  apparent,  and  rapid 
advancement  and  progress  on  the  path 
of  righteousness  is  certainly  manifest 
to  any  individual  who  will  pause  for 
a  moment  and  acquaint  himself  with 
the  conditions  that  exist  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

We  have  in  our  midst  as  leaders, 
men  of  God,  men  of  fried  integrity,  men 
of  pure  devotion,  who  live  among 
us  wholly  that  they  may  do 
the  will  of  the  Lord,  and 
that  they  may  bear  the  burden 
which  has  been  laid  upon  them  of  be- 
ing preachers  of  righteousness  and  ex- 
emplars among  the  people.  They  are 
performing  their  duty  as  the  Lord  gives 
them  light.  The  saints  are  becoming 
better  and  stronger  day  by  day.  The 
power  of  God  is  being  manifest  among 
us  more  and  more  as  time  rolls  on.  We 
ought  to  be  encouraged  in  these  men 
whom  the  Lord  hath  called  to  lead  us 
in  these  days,  as  we  have  been  encour- 
aged in  the  men  who  have  held  these 
leading  positions  since  the  restoration 
of  the  Gospel  in  our  age.  If  you  will 
take  the  trouble  to  read  their  history 
and  to  study  their  lives,  and  then  com- 
pare their  lives  and  conduct  with  the 
lives  and  conduct  of  the  ancient  Proph- 
ets and  Apostles,  you  will  find  that  the 
comparison  will  be  to  the  disadvantage 
of  the  Prophets  and  Apostles  who  lived 
in  former  days,  if  disadvantage  may  be 
found  at  all.  The  idea  that  the  Proph- 
ets of  old  were  anything  more  than 
men  is  a  mistake.  Many  people  look 
upon  them  as  being  something  super- 
natural, nevertheless  they  were  men- 
men,  as  Paul  expresses  it,  of  like  pas- 
sions unto  ourselves.  The  Lord  took 
them,  and  clothed  them  with  His  Spir- 
it and  power,  and  while  in  the  main 
they  served  God  and  performed  the 
mission  that  He  gave  them,  yet  they 
sometimes  made  mistakes.  I  presume 
it  would  be  considered  blasphemy  by 
those  who  are  not  of  us,  to  compare 
the  latter-day  leaders  of  the  Church 
with  the  former-day  leaders  of  the 
Church.  But  I  look  upon  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  as  the  equal  of  any 
Prophet  that  has  ever  lived.  I  look 
upon  him  as  being  as  highly  favored 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


63 


of  God  as  any  man  ever  was.  I  look 
upon  him  as  a  man  who  accomplished 
as  successfully  the  great  mission  the 
Lord  gave  him  to  perform,  as  any  other 
man  ever  accomplished  a  mission  in  the 
world.  I  look  upon  President  Brigham 
Young,  the  successor  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  as  being  as  great  a  lead- 
er among  men  as  ever  led  men  in  the 
history  of  the  world.  He  was  as  great 
as  was  Moses,  and  performed  as  great 
a  work;  for  he  performed  successfully 
all  that  God  called  upon  him  to  do. 
Furthermore,  in  all  his  life,  he  never 
showed  the  weaknesses  that  Moses 
showed  while  leading  the  children  of 
Israel.  We  might  go  on,  if  time  would 
permit,  and  consider  the  patriarchs. 
Some  of  the  patriarchs  were  mentioned 
this  morning,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you 
that  J  look  upon  the  Patriarch  Joseph 
Smith,  father  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  as  being  as  great  a 
patriarch,  as  highly  favored  of  God,  as 
sincere,  as  devoted,  and  as  pure  in  his 
life  as  either  of  the  Patriarchs  Abra- 
ham, Isaac,  and  Jacob;  and  besides,  he 
never  resorted  to  the  sharp  practice  in 
his  dealings  with  his  fellow  men  that 
characterized  some  of  these  other  pa- 
triarchs in  their  dealings.  Let  us  con- 
sider the  missionary  work  that  has  been 
done  by  this  Church.  Paul  the  Apostle 
is  looked  upon  as  being  the  greatest 
missionary  of  primitive  times.  While 
he  traveled  a  great  deal  in  the  world  as 
it  was  then  known, — which,  when  com- 
pared with  the  world  as  known  today, 
was  small  indeed, — compared  with  his 
labors  the  labors  of  many  of  the  ser- 
vants of  God  of  latter-days  who  have 
carried  the  Gospel  to  Great  Britain  and 
to  Scandinavia,  and  in  the  United 
States  and  the  isles  of  the  sea  who  have 
traversed  many  more  miles  than  Paul 
ever  did,  have  preached  the  Gospel  to 
many  thousands  more  people  than  Paul 
ever  did,  have  led  the  way  to  the  con- 
version of  tens  of  thousands  more  peo- 
ple than  Paul  ever  did,  and  who  laid 
their  lives  down  for  the  cause  as  Paul 
did.  I  would  not  disparage  his  work, 
but  merely  draw  your  attention  to  the 


fact  that  these  men  of  latter-days  have 
worked  as  hard,  as  sincerely,  and  have 
accomplished  as  much  as  did  they  of 
old,  and  the  power  of  God  has  been 
made  manifest  with  them  to  just  as 
great  an  extent  as  was  ever  manifest  to 
Paul  or  any  of  his  fellow  apostles.  I 
look  upon  the  Presidencies  of  the 
Church  who  have  succeeded -the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  as  being  the  equal  of 
Peter,  James  and  John.  While  Peter, 
James  and  John  were  as  good  perhaps 
as  men  could  be,  nevertheless  men  who 
have  lived  in  this  day  and  who  do  live 
are  as  good  as  they  were.  I  believe, 
however,  our  men  of  today  have  had  a 
little  advantage  over  those  men  of  old, 
as  they  live  in  a  dispensation  of  great- 
er fullness  of  the  Gospel.  They  ought 
to  be  good  men,  and  they  are  good  men. 
They  are  what  they  ought  to  be;  and 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  will  only 
do  right  in  sustaining  and  upholding 
them,  in  praying  for  them  in  your 
homes,  and  in  doing  all  in  your  power 
to  raise  them  in  the  eyes  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  and  in  the  eyes  of  all  the 
world,  as  men  of  God,  endowed  by  Him 
to  perform  the  work  of  the  Gospel  in 
the  latter  days. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters:  I  testify  to  you  that  the  words 
of  testimony  which  have  been  borne  by 
the  servants  of  God  here  during  this 
conference'  have  been  inspired  of  the 
Lord,  and  they  are  true.  Like  them,  I 
am  thankful  to  say  that  I  know  this  is 
the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  that  it  will 
go  on  and  triumph;  that  it  cannot  be 
stopped,  neither  will  it  ever  stand  still, 
until  the  righteousness  of  God  shall 
prevail  and  the  Kingdom  of  God  be  es«- 
tablished  in  its  fullness.  God  grant  that 
you  may  have  the  same  testimony,"'as 
I  am  convinced  the  great  majority  of 
those  present  have.  And  is  it  not  a 
grand  thing?  Is  it  not  a  light  to  our 
feet?  Will  it  not  ever  guide  us  onward 
and  upward  until  we  merit  and  receive 
ralvation  in  the  Kingdom  of  God?  May 
the  Lord  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
all  the  world,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  GEORGE  A.  SMITH. 

Operations  of  the  Spirit  of  truth  -No  need 
to  be  Ashamed  of  "Utah  and  the  Mor- 
mons." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  an 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that 
during  the  few  moments  I  stand  be- 
fore you  I  may  be  inspired  by  our 
heavenly  Father  to  give  utterance  to 
those  words  of  instruction  or  admoni- 
tion that  He  would  have  me  give  you, 
occupying  the  position  that  I  do.  I 
have  enjoyed  the  testimonies  that  have 
been  borne.     It  has  been  meat  and 
drink  to  me  to  mingle  with  my  brothers 
and  sisters  in  this  semi-annual  con- 
ference and  to  partake  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Father  that  has  characterized  the 
meetings.     I   sense   the  responsibility 
that  rests  upon  the  presiding  authori- 
ties of  the  Church,  when  I  look  into 
the  eager,  upturned  faces  of  the  thou- 
sands assembled  in  this  building  and 
realize  that  you  are  but  representatives 
of  tens  of  thousands,  yea,  of  hundreds 
of  thousands,  desirous  of  knowing  the 
mind  and  will  of  our  Father.   We  real- 
ize that  the  words  uttered  from  this 
pulpit  by  those  who  are  designated  to 
speak  to  you  are  carried  home  to  many 
who  are  unable,  by  reason  of  circum- 
stances over  which  they  have  no  con- 
trol, to  assemble  with  us.    I  have  en- 
joyed more  than  I  can  tell  the  testi- 
monies of  our  brethren,  that  wherever 
they  have  gone  the  Spirit  of  our  Father 
has  been  there  in  abundance.    It  is  a 
strength  to  me  to  know  that  the  breth- 
ren in  California  find  the  influence  of 
the  Lord  there;  that  from  the  Eastern 
States  comes  the  testimony  that  the 
s^me  Spirit  is  there  also;  that  the  tes- 
timony of  the  president  of  the  Southern 
States  mission   is  that  our  heavenly 
Father  pours  out  His  blessings  upon 
them  there,  and  that  from  every  Stake 
of  Zion,  and  from  every  mission  field 
which  has  been  represented  here,  the 
same  good  word  comes,  that  they  have 
received   the   benediction   of   the  Al- 
mighty upon  their  labors. 

When  I  heard  one  of  the  brethren 
make  the  statement  that  one  of  our 
sisters  (and  I  desire  to  emphasize  that 


she  was  a  sister,  though  not  a  member 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints)  had  said  that  the  young 
and  rising  generation  were  ashamed  of 
Utah  and  the  "Mormons,"  I  felt  con- 
strained to  ask  the  question,  And  for 
what  reason?    Even  allowing  that  it 
were  possible  to  find  within  the  borders 
of  this  great  state,  son  or  daughter  of 
the  patriotic,  noble  men  and  women, 
who  have  reared  this  commonwealth, 
who  is  ashamed  of  the  labors  performed 
by  those  whom  our  Father  has  honored 
—I  say,  granting  that  some  such  may 
be  found;  for  what  are  they  ashamed? 
Is  it  because  in  early  days  men  and  wo- 
men imbued  with  a  desire  to  worship 
God  according  to  the  dictates  of  their 
consciences   bade   farewell   to  father, 
mother,  and  loved  ones,  denied  them- 
selves home  comforts  and  the  blessings 
of  social  life,  and  turned  their  faces 
westward  into  this  great  wilderness,  to 
take   up   their  abode   with   the  wild 
beasts  and  the  still  more  savage  red- 
man?     Is  it   because   the   spirit  that 
characterized   Israel   when   Moses  led 
them  out  of  bondage  filled  the  hearts 
of  the  early  pioneers  to  this  western 
land?    Is  it  because  men  and  women, 
imbued  with  a  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  this  work  felt  that  they  could  leave 
the  comforts  they  had  enjoyed  from 
childhood  and  partake  of  the  privation 
of  pioneer  life,  and  that  they  could  af- 
ford to  accept  the  reproach  of  parents 
and  loved  ones  in  many  cases,  and  have 
their  names  cast  out  as  evil,  in  order 
that  they  might  worship  their  heavenly 
Father  in  spirit  and  in  truth?  Is  it  be- 
cause these  brave  men  and  women, 
struggling   with   privation   and  want, 
marked  their  pathway  across  the  great 
plains  by  the  bloody  prints  of  their 
lacerated  feet,  in  the  frozen  snow,  or 
because  when  they  came  down  out  of 
the  canyon  to  the  east  of  us,  looked  on 
the  valley  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake,  and 
saw  the  sun's  rays  scintillating  upon 
the  western  sea  and  the  barren  soil 
of  the  desert  cracked  open   in  great 
seams  under  the  burning  heat  of  sum- 
mer, and  they  said,  "We  are  outcasts 
from  the  place  which  should  have  been 
our  home,  but  God  being  our  helper. 


ELDER  GEORGE  A.  SMITH. 


65 


we  will  rear  a  commonwealth  here,  and 
raise  sons  and  daughters  that  shall  give 
glory   to  His  name?"     Is   it  because 
where  not  one  blade  of  grass  grew  be- 
fore, there  are  luxuriant  fields  of  green 
today?    Is  it  because  where  only  the 
shadscab,  sagebrush    and  greasewood 
covered  the  land,  that  today  we  have 
beautiful  farms  and  gardens,  the  sus- 
tenance of  thousands  of  our  Father's 
happy  children?   Is  it  because  the  men 
and  women  whose  lives  have  been  dedi- 
cated to  the  service  of  our  Father  have 
passed    away    with  their    faith  still 
strong,  and  have  left  their  dying  testi- 
mony with  their  sons  and  daughters 
that  they  know  this  is  the  work  of  the 
Master?    Is  it  because  tne  wilderness 
has  been  made  to  blossom  as  the  rose? 
Is  it  because  the  proportion  of  convicts 
and  those  who  disobey  the  law  of  the 
land  is  less  in  Utah  than  in  any  other 
place      in     the     wide     world?  Is 
it       because      the      proportion  of 
children    in     the    schools    is  greater 
to  the  number  of  inhabitants  than  in 
any  other  state  or    territory    of  our 
great  Union?    Is  it  because  there  are 
more  boys  and  girls  who  can  stand  upon 
their  feet  in  the  presence  of  a  congre- 
gation, and  bear  their  testimony  to  the 
divinity  of  the  work  of  our  Father  than 
can  be  found  among  any  like  number 
of  people  anywhere  else?   Is  it  because 
there  is  a  greater  amount  of  virtue, 
kindness,  and  loving,  tender  care  mani- 
fest in  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  than  can  be  found  in  most  places 
on  our  Father's  footstool?  Is  it  because 
today  we  are  considered  a  peculiar  peo- 
ple?    Is   it   because   we   believe  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ?    Is  it  because  we 
believe  the  Old  and  New  Testament  to 
be  the  revealed  word  of  our  Heavenly 
Father?    Is  it  because  boys  and  girls 
who   go  from  these  grand  mountains 
to  the  colleges  of  the  east,  almost  with- 
out exception,  return  covered  with  hon- 
or?   Is  it  because  of  the  success  they 
have  attained  in  their  ministry?    Is  it 
because  we  have  from  fifteen  hundred 
to  two  thousand   men  who  have  left 
their  fathers  and  mothers,  their  wives 
and  children,  have  turned  their  backs 
upon  the  comforts  of  this  life,  and  gone 


out  into  the  world  to  testify  that  Jesus 
was  indeed  the  Christ,  and  to  depend 
for  their  daily  bread  upon  the  kindness 
of  the  people?   Is  it  because  these  sons 
and,   in   some  cases,   these  daughters 
have  the  courage,  in  face  of  the  opposi- 
tion of  the  world,  to  testify  that  they 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  that 
the  Gospel  He  has  given  to  the  earth 
is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation?  Is 
it  because  all  over  our  broad  land  there 
are  happy  homes,  and  sons  and  daugh- 
ters who  have  been  reared  to  respect 
and  honor  the  great  ones  of  our  na- 
tion,  and   the  men     our   Father  has 
raised  up  to  guide  the  destinies  of  His 
people  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we 
live?    I  say,  is  it  for  these  things  that 
anyone  should  be  ashamed  of  Utah? 
No  place  upon  our  Father's  footstool 
will  you  go  today  where  you  will  find 
more  patriotic,  home-loving,  God-fear- 
ing people  in  proportion  to  the  inhab- 
itants than  you  will  find  among  the 
valleys  of  these  everlasting  hills.  We 
have  been  taught  to  honor  our  fathers 
and  our  mothers.  We  have  been  taught 
to  keep  the  commandments  given  by 
the  creator  to  Moses  on  Mount  Sinai. 
We  have  been  taught  to  uphold  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  great  country  in  which 
we  live.     And  Utah's  sons  have  already 
brought  honor  and  glory  to  this  state 
by  their  valor  and  patriotism  in  the 
Philippines.      We    have  been  taught 
that   the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  was  inspired  of  Almighty  God, 
and  that  it  is  the  duty  of  every  boy 
and  every  girl  of  "Mormon"  birth  to 
uphold  and-  sustain  it,  if  need  be,  with 
life  itself.     We  have  been  taught  that 
this  great  country  of  America  is  th»* 
promised  land,  and  that  here  our  Father 
has  given  an  opportunity  for  His  chil- 
dren to  worship  Him  according  to  the 
dictates  of  their  consciences.     We  have 
been  taught  to  love  our  enemies,  and 
to  pray  for  those  who  despitefully  use 
us  and  speak  evil  of  us.     We  have  been 
taught  that  it  is  our  mission  in  the 
world  to  preach  Christ  and  Him  cruci- 
fied, and  to  teach  the  same  Gospel  that 
He  gave  to  the  world  when  He  minis- 
tered among  the  children  of  men.  I 
say,  instead  of  being  ashamed  of  Utah 


66 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


and  "Mormonism,"  any  boy  or  girl  who 
will  examine  the  splendid  record  of  the 
people  of  this  State  will  be  grateful  for 
it,  and  they  will  be  able  to  hold  up  their 
heads  and  say,  "I  am  proud  of  the 
country  whence  I  came,"  and  I  do  not 
believe  there  are  many  who  would  be 
recreant.  I  do  not  believe,  with  fathers 
and  mothers  such  as  I  see  before  me 
today,  that  their  children  would  give 
voice  to  such  a  sentiment  as  that,  but 
I  do  believe  that  with  a  knowledge  of 
the  character  of  the  teachings  of  the 
Church  of  ♦Jesus  Christ  of  Later-day 
Saints,  one  could  not  have  such  a 
feeling.  And  I  take  it  for  granted 
that  the  sentiment  so  expressed  was  a 
wish  that  was  father  to  the  thought. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
be  numbered  with  you.  Our  Father  has 
given  us  a  great  mission  among  the 
children  of  men.  And  while  our  broth- 
ers and  sisters  of  other  faiths  are  doing, 
in  most  cases,  what  they  believe  to  be 
right  and  proper,  the  Creator  has 
given  us  a  special  calling,  and  He 
has  admonished  us  to  perform  that 
duty  with  kindness,  love  and  char- 
ity. When  you  are  reviled,  do  not  re- 
vile again.  When  others  speak  evil  of 
you,  pity  them,  and  pray  for  them.  Re- 
member the  example  of  the  Divine  Mas- 
ter, who,  when  suspended  upon  the 
cruel  tree,  said,  "Father,  forgive  them, 
for  they  know  not  what  they  do."  The 
efforts  of  your  missionary  sons  and 
daughters  who  are  scattered  in  the 
world  today  are  characterized  by  that 
spirit.  They  are  finding  the  honest  in 
heart  wherever  they  go.  The  Gospel 
is  being  preached  to  the  poor,  as 
the  Master  said  it  would  be,  and 
hundreds  and  thousands  of  His 
children  have  been  brought  to  under- 
stand the  teachings  that  have  been  giv- 
en to  the  earth  in  the  day  and  age  In 
which  we  live.  After  we  have  perform- 
ed our  part  by  preaching  the  gospel 
to  the  children  of  men,  if  we  have  done 
it  painstakingly  and  carefully  and  been 
exemplary  our  duty  has  been  done, 
and  the  result  is  in  the  hands  of  the 
Master.  "Paul  may  plant,  and  Apol- 
los  may  water,  but  it  is  God  that  giv- 
oth  the  increase.'    No  matter  how  gift- 


ed we  may  be,  or  how  choice  our  lan- 
guage, it  is  the  Spirit  of  our  Father 
that  reaches  the  heart  and  brings  con- 
viction of  the  divinity  of  this  work. 

I  am  one  of  the  sons  who  is  proud  of 
Utah,  whose  ancestors  have  given  to 
this  land  examples  of  noble  manhood 
and  womanhood,  whose  lives  have  been 
dedicated  to  the  blessing  of  their  fel- 
low creatures.  I  rejoice  in  my  lineage 
and  in  that  I  am  considered  worthy  to 
be  one,  even  of  the  humblest  in  Israel. 
I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Redeemer 
may  burn  in  our  hearts,  that  our  chil- 
dren may  never  prove  recreant  to  the 
great  opportunity  our  Father  has  giv- 
en them,  but  day  by  day,  as  they  give 
evidence  in  their  lives  of  the  purity 
of  their  home  teachings  and  chastity  of 
their  natures,  the  beauty  of  the  Gos- 
pel will  be  more  appreciated  by  our  fel- 
low men.  Oh!  that  we  might  be  able  to 
give  mankind  an  understanding  of  our 
feelings,  that  they  might  realize  that 
we  do  not  desire  to  curtail  their  oppor- 
tunities, but  that  they  might  feel  that 
our  hearts  reach  out  to  them  in  love 
and  kindness,  not  with  any  desire  to 
hurt.  Our  mission  in  the  world  is  to 
save  souls,  to  bless  them,  and  to  place 
them  in  a  condition  that  they  may  go 
back  into  the  presence  of  our  Father, 
crowned  with  glory,  immortality  and 
eternal  life.  If  they  do  not  understand 
it  in  this  world,  we  have  the  witness 
from  our  Father  that  they  will  under- 
stand it  in  the  life  to  come.  Let  us 
day  by  day  so  minister  in  the  flesh  that 
men  seeing  our  good  works,  may  glori- 
fy our  Father  which  is  in  heaven,  that 
when  our  life  shall  go  out  it  may  be 
said  of  us  that  the  world  is  better  for 
our  having  lived  in  it.  Let  the  kind- 
ness, joy  and  peace  that  characterizes 
our  efforts  be  a  blessing  to  our  Father's 
children  wherever  it  may  be  our  priv- 
ilege to  roam,  so  that  when  we  go  to 
the  other  side  it  may  be  said  to  us  by 
Him  who  rules  and  reigns  on  high, 
"Well  done,  good  and  faithful  servant." 
I  testify  to  you  that  this  is  the  work  of 
our  Father,  and  it  will  roll  forth  until 
He  comes  again  in  the  clouds  of  heaven, 
when  He  shall  direct  whose  right  It  is 
to   rule   and  reign.     Then   those  who 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


67 


have  not  understood  this  work  will  un- 
derstand it,  and,  thanks  be  to  the  tes- 
timony that  we  have  received,  they 
may  yet  have  an  opportunity  to  partake 
of  the  blessings  our  Father  has  in  store 
for  His  children. 

That  the  influence  of  this  conference 
may  be  disseminated  throughout  Israel 
and  the  world,  and  that  the  Spirit  of 
love  and  peace  may  be  with  all  our 
Father's  children,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  C.  W.  PENROSE. 

Praise  for  the  Worthy— The  voice  of  the  true 
Snepherd— Terms  of  Mission  work— Right- 
eousness the  strength  of  the  Saints— Their 
Special  Mission— Testimony  of  the  Truth- 
Treatment  of  Enemies. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  this  build- 
ing is  overflowing  at  this  time  with  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  the  Lord  anxi- 
ous to  hear  His  word  and  to  worship 
before  Him  in  the  beauty  of  holiness, 
so  my  soul  today  is  overflowing  with 
gratitude  to  our  Heavenly  Father  and 
with  joy  and  thanksgiving  that  I  have 
the  privilege  of  assembling  with  this 
vast  congregation  to  take  part  in  the 
exercises  of  this  conference.  I  have 
no  language  to  express  the  feelings 
that  well  up  in  my  heart  today.  When 
I  look  upon  this  congregation  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  and  realize  how  many 
they  represent  in  the  various  parts  of 
the  Church,  in  this  and  other  lands, 
I  am  led  to  exclaim  like  one  when  the 
electric  telegraph  was  first  thoroughly 
understood  and  utilized,  "What  hath 
God  wrought!"  This  is  the  work  of 
God,  it  is  true,  the  Lord  has  had  to  call 
to  His  aid  on  earth  many  of  His  sons 
and  daughters  to  assist  in  the  establish- 
ment of  the  latter-day  kingdom,  and 
that  He  now  has  on  Mount  Zion  many 
who  will  be  saviors  of  men.  Yet  the 
kingdom  is  the  Lord's,  the  work  is  His, 
and  to  Him  be  the  praise  and  the  glory. 
However,  I  would  not  detract  in  the 
least  from  the  praise  that  is  due  to  the 
faithful  laborers  in  this  cause.  I  can 
join  heartily  in  our  popular  hymn, 
"Praise  to  the  man  who  communed 
with  Jehovah:  Jesus  anointed  that 
prophet  and  seer."  It  is  right  to  give 
words  of  praise  and  to  recognize  the 
labors  of  the  faithful  servants  of  God 


who  have  lived  for  the  truth  and  died 
in  its  defense,  and  also  to  express  our 
faith  in  the  men  who  have  succeeded 
the  Prophet  as  the  leaders  of  Israel  in 
the  latter  days.  And  I  do  not  believe 
that  any  man  who  ever  stood  at  the 
head  of  the  Church  had  more  of  the 
love,  faith,  confidence,  prayers  and  sup- 
port of  the  Latter-day  Saints  than  our 
present  leader,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  who  is  of  the  blood  of  the 
prophets,  as  well  as  being  imbued  with 
the  spirit  of  his  calling.  I  believe  that' 
the  Latter-day  Saints  have  full  confi- 
dence in  him  as  the  leader  of  the 
Church,  and  his  Counselors,  and  in  the 
men  who  are  associated  intimately  with 
him  in  carrying  on  this  great  latter-day 
work. 

I  have  enjoyed  every  meeting  of  this 
conference.  I  have  watched  carefully 
the  remarks  that  have  been  made  by 
those  who  have  spoken,  and  I  can  bear 
testimony  to  their  truth,  and  in  them  I 
recognize  the  voice  of  the  Lord.  When 
Jesus  was  on  earth  He  declared  Him- 
self to  be  "the  good  shepherd,"  and 
He  said:  "My  sheep  hear  my  voice, 
and  they  follow  me;  and  a  stranger 
they  will  not  follow,  because  they  know 
not  the  voice  of  a  stranger."  I  hope 
that  the  sheep  of  Israel  who  are  here 
today,  and  those  whom  they  represent, 
are  able  to  distinguish  between  the 
voice  of  the  good  shepherd  and  the 
voice  of  the  stranger,  and  that  they 
will  never  be  led  aside  from  the  path 
in  which  they  should  walk,  but  that 
they  will  keep  their  eye  upon  the  prize 
of  the  mark  of  their  high  calling  in 
Christ  Jesus,  and  press  forward  on  the 
strait  and  the  narrow  way  that  lead- 
eth  unto  eternal  lives,  and  that  they 
will  not  be  turned  to  the  right_hand 
nor  to  the  left  by  the  voice  of  the 
stranger.  We  have  heard  from  several 
of  our  brethren.  The  tones  of  their 
voices,  their  complexions,  their  stature, 
their  physical  development,  their  intel- 
lectual powers,  are  all  different;  but  the 
one  voice  has  been  heard  through  this 
conference,  and  that  is  the  voice  of 
the  Lord,  the  voice  of  the  good  shep- 
herd, through  His  agents  whom  He  has 
appointed  to  carry    on    His    work  in 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


these  latter  times.  That  voice  has 
found  an  echo  in  my  heart.  I  rejoice 
in  it  and  praise  the  Lord.  When  I 
look  back  upon  my  past  life  and  labors 
in  this  Church  and  behold  what  I  do 
today,  I  say  in  my  soul,  Blessed  and 
praised  be  the  name  of  the  Lord! 

While  our  brethren  were  talking  this 
morning  in  regard  to  the   terms  and 
times  of  missionary  labor,  I  thought  of 
my  first  missionary  labors  in  the  old 
world.       More   than    fifty-three  years 
ago  I  was  called  to  go  out,  as  a  boy,  to 
lift  up  my  voice  and  proclaim  the  truth 
of  the  everlasting  Gospel;  for  God  had 
planted  that  truth  in  my  soul  and  had 
given  me  a  witness  that  this  is  His 
work.      The    Spirit   of   the   Lord  had 
borne  testimony  to  my  spirit  that  God 
had  in  very  deed,  in  the  last  days,  com- 
menced the  work  spoken  of  by  all  the 
holy  prophets  since  the  world  began, 
and  that  Joseph  Smith,  whom  he  had 
raised  up,  was  indeed  a  prophet  of  the 
ilving  God.      I  went  out  and  labored 
as  a  missionary  in  different  parts  of 
Great  Britain,  and  the  Lord  was  with 
me,  and  His  power  was  upon  me.  I 
did  not  think  about  laboring  for  a  year, 
or  two  years,  or  three  years,  but  to  la- 
bor until  I  was  released;  and  my  labors 
went  on  from  year  to  year  until  I  had 
been  in  the  ministry     incessantly  for 
over  ten  yea'rs  before  I  was  privileged 
to    be    released    and    come    here  to 
the  mountains  to    rejoice    with  the 
saints  in  the  blessings  of  the  gospel 
of  peace.    When  I  was  sent  on  a  mis- 
sion  again   to   the   old   world,    I  was 
gone  three  years  and  a  half,  and  there 
was  a  talk  about  my  staying  another 
year.    When  I  went  again,  I  did  not 
stay  there  quite  a  year.     So  there  is 
no  particular  term  for  a  mission.  The 
brethren   and   sisters   should   not  feel 
that  the  presidents  of  missions  are  un- 
der  obligations  to   release   their  sons 
or    their    daughters    when    two  years 
have  elapsed  from  the  time  they  leave 
home. 

The  missionaries  in  the  world  are 
imbued  with  this  spirit  that  I  have 
been  talking  about,  and  they  bear  with 
them  the  same  voice.  It  has  what  we 
call  the  proper  "ring"  to  it.    We  could 


not  describe  it  exactly  in  words, 
but  there  is  something  about  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel  by  the 
Elders  of  Israel,  something 
about  the  testimony  that  is 
borne  by  the  servants  and  handmaid- 
ens of  the  Lord,  something  about  their 
praying,  their  singing,  their  harmony, 
their  melody,  the  glorious  music  which 
comes  from  them,  whether  by  choirs 
or  by  single  voices — something  inex- 
plicable, there  is  a  tone  and  a  ring  to 
it  that  enters  into  our  souls,  and  there 
is  something  within  us  that  har- 
monizes with  it.  It  is  the  voice  of  the 
Good  Shepheard,  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the 
Savior  of  the  world,  who  has  come  in 
these  last  days,  in  company  with  the 
Eternal  Father,  to  establish  the  king- 
dom and  work  of  the  latter  times.  His 
voice  has  been  heard  in  reality;  His 
voice  is  ringing  in  the  testimony  of 
His  servants,  and  the  spirit  which  He 
brought  with  Him  from  on  high  is 
here  in  His  Church,  and  it  will  remain 
and  abide  and  continue.  The  power, 
the  light,  and  the  glory  thereof  will 
go  forth  to  the  uttermost  parts  of  the 
earth,  and  the  honest  and  upright  in 
heart  will  be  attracted  thereby,  and 
when  they  hear  the  sound  of  the  gos- 
pel there  will  be  something  within 
them  that  will  correspond  to  it,  and 
thev  will  embrace  it. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
Lord  has  brought  us  into  these  moun- 
tain heights.  What  for?  That  we 
may  organize  perfectly  according  to 
the  pattern  which  He  has  revealed. 
The  first  meeting  of  this  conference 
brought  forth  a  clear  exposition  of  the 
order  of  the  Church.  When  President 
Smith  was  declaring  it  I  reioiced  ex- 
ceedingly in  knowing  that  it  was  an 
evidence  that  God  laid  the  foundation 
of  this  work,  and  that  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  something  be- 
yond human  wisdom.  It  was  the  pow- 
er of  God  by  which  this  organization 
was  given  to  mankind,  and  if  we  will 
onW  carry  out  the  designs  of  the  Lord, 
it  will  go  forth  steadily  to  victory. 
No  weapon  that  is  formed  against  it 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


69 


will  prevail,  no  obstacle  placed  in  its 
way  will  retard  its  progress.  But  we 
are  expected  to  do  our  part  in  this 
great  organization  that  God  has  set 
up,  that  it  may  accomplish  the  work 
for  which  it  is  designed.  The  Lord 
has  promised  to  us  that  if  we  will  do 
His  will  and  keep  His  commandments 
He  will  fight  our  battles.  We  are  not 
called  upon  to  use  carnal  weapons; 
we  are  called  upon  to  clothe  ourselves 
with  the  armor  of  salvation,  to  carry 
the  sword  of  truth,  to  labor  as  the 
soldiers  of  Christ,  not  with  carnal 
weapons  or  with  the  power  of  this 
world,  bvt  with  light  and  truth  and 
with  the  power  of  the  Almighty,  with 
which  He  will  encircle  us  and  by 
which   we   will  overcome. 

I  want  to  say  to  my  young  friends 
here  today  that  their  strength  and 
the  strength  of  this  work  will  be  in 
their  virtue,  in  their  honesty,  in  their 
upright  course  of  conduct  in  this  life. 
The  gospel  that  we  have  received  is 
a  gospel  of  libertv.  but  not  of  licence. 
There  is  nobody  in  bondage  in  this 
church.  We  are  at  perfect  liberty  to 
do  that  which  we  desire  to  do,  so  far 
as  we  have  power.  But  we  are  not 
permitted,  if  we  are  saints  of  the  liv- 
ing God,  to  go  into  corruption  and 
wickedness  and  into  the  evils  of  this 
world.  True,  we  have  the  power,  but 
the  Lord  has  given  us  commandments 
concerning  these  things,  and  He  ex- 
pects us  to  be  a  righteous  people.  Not 
but  what  we  are  subject  to  the  frailties 
of  humanity  and  to  the  ills  of  mortal 
flesh;  but  we  are  called  out  of  the  world 
to  be  the  saints  of  the  living  God, 
and  the  Lord  has  said  in  the 
latter  days,  as  in  times  of  old, 
"Be  ye  clean  that  bear  the  vessels  of 
the  Lord."  The  Lord  expects  the 
young  men  of  Israel  to  be  pure  and 
virtuous  in  their  conduct,  just  as 
much  as  he  requires  it  of  the  daugh- 
ters of  Israel.  Let  that  be  understood. 
In  the  world,  if  a  woman  goes  wrong 
she  falls  almost  to  rise  no  more;  but 
the  man  can  steep  himself  in  wicked- 
ness and  corruption  and  fall  into  vice 
and  folly,  and  he  can  be  welcomed  into 


society.  That  is  not  according  to  the 
gospel  of  Christ.  It  is  not  according 
to  what  people  call  "Mormonism." 
The  Lord  expects  men  to  be  pure  as 
well  as  women,  and  He  has  brought  us 
into  these  mountains  that  we  may  raise 
up  a  holy  generation,  a  peculiar  people, 
a  nation  of  priests,  who  will  afterwards, 
some  time  in  eternity,  be  kings  as  well 
as  priests,  ruling  and  reigning  in  the 
house  of  Israel  forever.  As  I  have  said, 
the  strength  of  this  people  is  in  their 
comparative  purity,  in  their  righteous- 
ness, in  their  sincerity.  They  are  not 
a  set  of  hypocrites. 

The  servants  of  God  do  not  preach  for 
hire;  they  do  not  divine  for  money;  but 
they  labor  for  the  good  of  mankind, 
and  they  have  in  their  hearts  a  desire 
for  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  men. 
For  this  our  Elders  go  out  into  the 
world;  for  this  the  servants  of  God  la- 
bor at  home;  and  I  know  as  I  know 
that  I  live  that  the  men  who  stand  at 
the  head  of  affairs  here  are  honorable, 
upright,  virtuous,  kind-hearted,  loving 
men,  and  that  their  sole  desire  is  to 
build  up  the  kingdom  in  righteousness 
and  to  bless  the  people  by  disseminating 
light  and  truth,  giving  counsel  that  is' 
wise  and  wholesome,  correcting  evils 
when  they  find  them,  and  watching 
carefully  over  the  interests  of  the  Saints 
of  God.  Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
we  will  sustain  them  by  our  faith  and 
prayers  and  by  carrying  out  their  coun- 
sels. This  kingdom  is  sure  to  prevail; 
there  is  no  question  about  that;  and  if 
you  and  I  want  to  prevail  with  it  we 
must  live  according  to  the  principles 
that  the  Lord  has  revealed  for  our  guid- 
ance. We  must  be  His  Saints  in  very 
deed.  We  must  keep  His  command- 
ments, purify  our  lives,  and  live  as 
Saints,  not  merely  in  meeting  and  in 
our  public  gatherings,  but  in  the  home, 
on  the  farm,  in  the  workshop.  Wher- 
ever we  are  we  must  remember  that  we 
are  called  of  God  to  be  Saints;  that  He 
has  called  us  out  of  the  world  for  this 
special  work.  As  we  have  been  told  in 
this  conference,  we  have  a  mission  to 
perform,  and  it  is  not  simply  to  gather 
around  us  the  good  things  of  this  world. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


That  is  all  right  as  far  as  it  goes.  No 
matter  how  much  we  can  get  on  right- 
eous principles,  the  .Lord  is  pleased  with 
us,  and  some  day  He  will  make  this 
people  the  richest  in  temporal  things  of 
all  the  peoples  of  the  earth.  But  we 
have  been  called  with  this  special  mis- 
sion, to  carry  the  Gospel  of  Christ  to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  peo- 
ple; and  if  we  cannot  go  out  ourselves, 
we  can  send  our  sons  and  daughters 
and  sustain  those  that  can  go.  We  can 
also  help  those  that  are  gathered  home. 
When  they  come  into  our  midst,  look 
after  them;  see  that  they  are  not  al- 
lowed to  fall  into  the  ways  of  the 
stranger,  or  to  be  led  astray  by  those 
who  would  seek  to  deceive  them;  but 
guide  their  footsteps  in  the  path  of 
peace. 

While  we  live  we  have  this  mission 
to  perforin,  and  when  we  depart  hence 
and  go  beyond  the  veil,  we  will  be  just 
the  same  people, — having  merely 
dropped  off  the  outer  covering  of  the 
flesh — and  our  labors  will  be  continued 
there.  The  Gospel  will  not  only  be 
preached  to  every  creature  on  the 
earth,  but  to  every  son  and  daughter 
of  Adam  who  has  dwelt  in  the  flesh  and 
passed  away  into  the  other  world  with- 
out hearing  the  truth.  For  God's  tender 
mercies  are  "over  all  His  works,"  and 
we  are  all  His  children,  and  He  loves  us 
and  desires  our  salvation.  But  He 
knows  that  that  cannot  be  accom- 
plished unless  we  walk  in  the  ways  of 
salvation,  and  an  opportunity  to  receive 
His  word  will  be  given  to  every  soul 
that  has  breathed  the  breath  of  life  in 
the  body,  either  here  on  earth  or  in  the 
regions  beyond.  I  rejoice  in  the  knowl- 
edge of  this  great  truth — only  one  out 
of  many  truths  that  have  been  brought 
forth  through  the  ministration  of  the 
latter-day  Prophet.  I  rejoice  in  the 
knowledge  that  the  Gospel  of  peace  will 
come  to  every  creature. 

1  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know 
as  I  know  that  I  live,  and  have  known 
it  for  over  fifty-four  years,  that  this  is 
the  work  of  God.  I  bear  testimony  be- 
fore the  heavens  and  the  earth  that  God 
in  the  last  days  has  established  the 
work  spoken  of  by  the  ancient  prophets; 


that  the  truth  has  been  revealed  in  its 
purity;  that  it  will  go  on  until  the  full- 
ness thereof  has  been  made  known  from 
the  heavens;  that  the  spirit  of  revela- 
tion from  on  high  has  been  poured  out; 
that  the  holy  Priesthood,  held  by  men 
of  old,  has  been  restored  in  the  latter 
days,  and  that  it  is  here  now  and  will 
never  be  taken  again  from  the  earth. 
When  God  commenced  this  work,  as  He 
stated.  He  sent  the  authority  and  pow- 
er of  the  holy  apostleship  "for  the  last 
days  and  for  the  last  time,"  and  He 
will  not  take  it  away  again  nor  give  it 
to  another  people.  This  is  His  work, 
His  Church,  the  beginning  of  His  King- 
dom on  the  earth,  and  it  will  go  forth 
to  victory.  Zion  is  being  built  up  in  the 
way  that  the  Lord  has  appointed,  and 
the  work  of  salvation  is  going  on  for 
the  living  and  for  the  dead.  The  Lord 
said  we  were  not  to  be  afraid  of 
our  enemies,  and  we  are  not  to  be 
ashamed  of  His  work,  for  He  will 
take  care  of  it.  I  rejoice  before  the 
Lord  that  I  am  in  Zion.  I  am  remind- 
ed of  the  sayings  of  Isaiah  the  Prophet 
concerning  the  Zion  of  the  latter  days: 
"Arise,  shine;  for  thy  light  is  come, 
and  the  glory  of  the  Lord  is  risen  up- 
on thee.  For,  behold,  the  darkness  shall 
cover  the  earth,  and  gross  darkness  the 
people;  but  the  Lord  shall  arise  upon 
thee,  and  his  glory  shall  be  seen  upon 
thee.  And  the  Gentiles  shall  come  to 
thy  light,  and  kings  to  the  brightness 
of  they  rising.  Lift  up  thine  eyes 
round  about;  and  see:  all  they  gather 
themselves  together,  they  come  to  thee; 
thy  sons  shall  come  from  far,  and  thy 
daughters  shall  be  nursed  at  thy  side." 

Every  word  spoken  by  the  Prophets 
of  old  and'  by  the  Prophets  of  latter 
times  concerning  this  great  work  wiil 
be  fulfilled.  I  know  it  will  prevail.  It 
cannot  be  overcome.  I  echo  the  senti- 
ments of  my  brethren  and  say:  Treat 
our  friends  who  appear  to  be  our  ene- 
mies with  kindness,  with  charity  and 
with  brotherly  love.  Let  us  not  get  an- 
gry with  them.  Sometimes  that  spirit 
naturally  arises  in  our  hearts,  and  we 
feel  it  is  all  very  well  to  say,  "Father, 
forgive  them,  for  they  know  not  what 
they  do;"  but  how  about  those  who  do 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS, 


71 


know  what  they  do?  How  about  those 
who  willfully,  intentionally  and  malici- 
ously malign  our  brethren,  distort  the 
truth,  and  seek  to  bring  trouble  and 
injury  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints? 
What  about  them?  Just  leave  them  in 
the  hands  of  the  Lord,  and  do  not  allow 
irritation  to  arise  in  your  breasts  for 
that  is  what  they  desire,  but  let  us  in 
patience  possess  our  souls,  as  Christ 
commanded.  In  the  tribulations  of  the 
latter  days,  when  all  men  should  speak 
evil  concerning  His  people;  when  they 
should  revile  them  and  persecute 
them,  and  say  all  manner  of  evil 
against  them  falsely,  for  His  name's 
sake;  "rejoice,"  said  He,  "and  he  ex- 
ceeding glad,  for  so  persecuted  they  the 
Prophets  which  were  before  you,"  and 
"in  patience  possess  ye  your  souls." 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us 
continue  in  this  good  work.  Let  us  be 
proud  of  the  things  that  God  has  given 
unto  us,  proud  of  our  homes,  proud  of 
our  State,  proud  of  our  glorious  coun- 
try, and  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  which  God  inspired  His 
servants  to  bring  forth,  to  establish 
liberty,  that  every  soul  might  have  an 
opportunity  of  worshiping  God  accord- 
ing to  the  dictates  of  his  conscience, 
and  that  perfect  liberty  might  prevail 
throughout  this  loved  land.  Let  us  re- 
joice in  these  things,  and  thank  and 
praise  the  name  of  the  Lord,  and  show 
our  gratitude  to  Him  by  walking  in  the 
straight  way,  turning  neither  to  the 
right  nor  to  the  left,  but  pressing  on- 
ward, that  we  may  receive  the  crown 
of  eternal  lives  in  the  presence  of  our 
Father.  May  God  help  us  individually 
to  conquer  and  overcome,  that  we  may 
sit  down  with  Him  in  His  kingdom,  as 
Christ  overcame  and  sat  down  upon  the 
Father's  throne.  Peace  and  the  bless- 
ings of  God  abide  with  all  Israel, 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  then  sang  an  anthem,  "God 
of  Israel  hear  our  prayer,"  with 
borthers  Robinson  and  Phillips  and 
sisters  Edward  and  Cooper  as  soloists, 
the   disciple  whom   Jesus  loved — came 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 

If  from  a  distance  you  look  upon  the 
dial  of  a  clock,  you  may  know  that  the 


hands  are  moving,  but  you  cannot  see 
them  move.  You  may  look  upon  the 
grass,  upon  the  trees,  and  upon  other 
fcrms  of  vegetation,  and  you  may  know 
that  the  grass  and  the  trees  and  the 
other  vegetation  are  growing;  but  you 
cannot  see  the  minute  additions  made 
to  them  by  which  they  grow.  And  so 
it  is  in  relation  to  a  work  of  the  char- 
acter of  this  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged, and  which  the  world  calls  Mor- 
rronism— a  work  that  has  grown  to  its 
present  proportions  little  by  little; 
whose  doctrines  have  developed  pre- 
cept by  precept,  here  a  little  and  there 
a  little,  line  upon  line.  Its  growth  has 
been  so  gradual,  the  development  of 
its  doctrines  so  slow,  that  men,  look- 
ing upon  it  casually,  or  from  a  distance 
may  not  possiblj-  be  able  to  discern  its 
growth.  After  the  lapse  of  time,  how- 
ever, we  may  see  that  the  hand  upon 
the  dial  has  moved  some  distance;  that 
the  grass  has  increased  several  inches, 
and  that  the  trees  have  grown  several 
feet  taller  and  several  inches  larger  in 
diameter.  So  also,  by  looking  upon 
"Mormonism"  after  the -lapse  of  consid- 
erable time,  I  think  we  may  gather 
very  much  of  encouragement  from  the 
amount  of  growth  discernable  in  it. 

If  you  count  thel  sending  of  the 
prophet  of  this  last  dispensation  to  the 
earth  as  the  beginning  of  God's  great 
latter  da3r  work,  we  shall  have  nearly 
a,  century  in  which  to  consider  its 
growth;  for  on  the  twenty-third  of  next 
December  it  will  lack  but  one  year  of 
being  a  century  since  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  was  born.  At  about  fifteen, 
you  remember,  in  response  to  his  beau- 
tiful faith  in  God,  he  received  his  first 
great  revelation,  in  which  he  beheld  the 
Father  and  the  Son  as  they  communi- 
cated to  him  the  great  truth  that  they 
were  about  to  begin  a  great  and  mar- 
velous work  in  the  earth  that  should 
prepare  the  way  for  the  glorious  coming 
of  the  Son  of  God  in  the  clouds  of 
heaven  with  power  and  great  glory,  to 
reign  with  his  Saints  in  the  earth  not 
or.ly  as  Lord  of  lords,  but  also  as  King 
of  kings.  A  few  years  later  the  knowl- 
edge was  revealed  of  the  American 
volume  of  scripture — the  Book  of  Mor- 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


rnon— an  abridged  history  of  the  ancient 
irhabitants  of  thi~  western  world,  and 
containing-  an  account  of  the  hand  deal- 
ings of  God  with  them.  "While  it  was 
in  course  of  translation,  John  the  Bap- 
tist, a  resurrected  man,  an  angel  of 
God,  came  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery,  as  was  most  fitting,  to  in- 
struct them  in  the  matter  of  repentance 
and  baptism.  I  say  as  was  most  fitting 
with  reference  to  John's  coming  and  in- 
struction because  the  information  these 
men,  Joseph  and  Oliver,  were  seeking 
was  about  baptism;  and  who  among  all 
the  heavenly  hosts  was  so  competent  to 
tt  ach  men  on  that  subject  as  he  who  by 
way  of  pre-eminence  in  his  earth  ca- 
reer was  called  the  Baptist — John,  the 
Baptizer.  Upon  them,  that  is  upon 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  he 
conferred  what  is  known  to  us  as  the 
lesser  Priesthood,  and  gave  them  the 
great  promise  that  this  Priesthood 
should  never  again  be  taken  from  the 
earth  until  the  sons  of  Levi  should 
offer  an  offering  in  righteousness  to  the 
Lord.  He  promised  them  also  that  soon 
still  higher  authority  would  be  given 
them.  Tn  fulfillment  of  that  promise 
three  great  Apostles  of  the  Christian 
dispensation — Peter,  James,  and  John, 
the  disciple  whom  Jesus  loved — came 
and  conferred  upon  the  heads  of  these 
men,  Joseph  and  Oliver,  the  holy  Apos- 
tleship,  the  High  Priesthood,  by  virtue 
of  which  they  were  authorized  to  or- 
ganize the  Church  of  Christ  once  more 
in  the  earth,  and  preach  the  Gospel  in 
all  the  world.  "Under  the  keys  of  this 
authority  and  power,  on  the  sixth  day 
of  April,  1S30,  they  organized  the 
Church  with  six  members,  in  the  hum- 
ble log  home  of  the  Whitmers,  in  Fay- 
ette, Seneca  county,  New  York.  Short- 
ly afterwards  they  began  to  extend 
their  ministry  in  the  surrounding 
neighborhoods,  baptising  the  people  and 
confirming  them  members  of  the 
Church. 

Side  by  side  with  this  early  develop- 
ment of  the  work  of  God,  there  was  also 
developed  a  spirit  of  opposition  and 
persecution  against  it.  Wherever  the 
work  spread,  the  spirit  of  op- 
position accompanied  it.    But  notwith- 


standing the  efforts  of  the)  adversary, 
it  prospered  and  grew;  for  there  was 
the  germ  of  life  in  the  seeds  planted  by 
the  hand  of  God  and  His  angels. 

In  a  short  time  the  Zion  of  God,  or  the 
center  place  for  the  Zion  of  God  upon 
this  American  continent,  was  point- 
ed out  and  dedicated  unto  the 
Lord.  The  land  of  America  was 
declared  to  be,  not  the  new  world, 
but  the  old— the  land  where  Adam, 
the  Ancient  of  Days,  dwelt,  and 
where  the  smoke  of  his  burnt  sacrifices 
to  God  rose  from  the  altar  which  he 
reared  in  the  valley  of  Adam-ondi-Ah- 
man;  located  in  the  northern  part  of  th,e 
State  of  Missouri.  The  further  declara- 
tion was  also  made  that  that  was  the 
place  to  which  finally  the  Ancient  of 
Days  would  return,  and  nations  should 
be  assembled,  and  our  father  Adam,  not 
bowed  and  bent  with  age,  but  in  the  full 
vigor  of  an  immortal  manhood,  would 
gather  together  the  hosts  of  his  poster- 
ity, and  would  come  there  to  bless  them, 
while  the  heavens  would  open  and  one 
like  unto  the  Son  of  God  should  come, 
and  there  should  be  given  unto  him  a 
kingdom,  and  power,  and  the  dominion 
of  the  earth,  and  the  Saints  should  pos- 
sess the  kingdom  forever  and  forever. 
(See  Daniel,  vii.) 

These  were  a  few  of  the  things  re- 
vealed in  the  early  history  of  this 
Church.  These  were  the  foundation 
stones  upon  which  your  faith  and  my 
faith  today  is  resting.  This  was  the 
beginning  of  the  great  building  whose 
Builder  and  Maker  is  God — the  struc- 
ture the  world  may  see  rising  ever 
higher  and  higher  before  the  world's 
gaze. 

After  a  time  other  great  truths  were 
unfolded.  Moses  came  and  conferred 
upon  the  Prophet  the  keys  of  the  gath- 
ering of  Israel;  Elias  who  lived  in  the 
days  of  Abraham,  came  and  conferred 
upon  him  the  keys  of  the  sealing  pow- 
er; Elijah  also  came — Elijah  of  whom  it 
was  decreed  that  before  the  great,  and 
dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  should  come, 
he  should  be  sent  to  earth  to  perform 
a  mission,  the  effect  of  which  would  be 
to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the 
fathers  and  the  hearts  of  the  fathers 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


73 


to  the  children,  lest  the  whole  earth 
be  smitten  with  a  curse  at  Messiah's 
coming:  and  from  thence  comes  the 
great  principle  which  makes  us  under- 
stand the  meaning  of  that  term,  "the 
everlasting  gospel" — one  that  endures 
not  alone  in  time,  but  in  eternity;  one 
whose  saving  power  is  not  limited  to 
the  brief  span  of  mortal  life  as  known 
to  us,  but  a  gospel  that  shall  endure  as 
long  as  the  ages  endure,  carrying  with 
it,  too,  all  those  great  powers  that 
make  for  the  salvation  of  the  children 
of  men. 

And  so  step  by  step,  step  by  step,  line 
upon  line,  precept  upon  precept,  these 
principles  have  been  revealed,  and  they 
have  been  operating,  and  have 
brought  to  pass  that  which  men 
may  see  this  day.  This  is  th* 
dispensation  of  the  fullness  of 
times,  and  we  see  running  into  it,  as 
mighty  streame  rush  into  the  ocean,  all 
the  former  dispensations,  putting  us  in 
touch  with  them,  putting  them  in  touch 
with  us;  and  we  see  that  God  has  had 
but  on  '  great  purpose  in  view  from  the 
beginning,  and  that  has  been  the  sal- 
vation of  His  children.  And  now  has 
come  the  final  day,  the  final  dispensa- 
tion, when  truth  and  light  and  righ- 
teousness must  flood  the  earth. 

This  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  is 
not  a  mere  skirmish  with  error.  It  is 
not  a  battle  of  the  outposts.  It  is  not 
an  occasion  where  a  more  or  less  bril- 
liant mind  has  seized  upon  and  de- 
veloped some  fragments  or  truth,  and 
made  them  honorable  for  a  moment  in 
the  eyes  of  men,  but  soon  to  be  lost 
sight  of — to  be  forgotten  with  the  death 
of  him  who  advocated  them.  Our  work 
is  not  a  mere  guerilla  warfare  taken  up 
against  error  and  sin,  and  against  the 
spiritual  bondage  of  mankind.  It  is 
God's  heavenly  army  of  peace  and  of 
righteousness  in  the  earth  with  all  its 
companies  battalions  and  divisions 
properly  organized.  Its  movements  re- 
mind one  of  the  marching  of  the  old 
Roman  legions.  It  is  God's  spiritual 
kingdom,  which  is  going  to  remain  and 
prevail  in  the  earth.  And  I  love  to 
think  that  when  the  nations  shall  as- 
semble in  the  valley  of  Adam-ondi-Ah- 
man,  and  when  the  Ancient  of  Days 


shall  sit  in  honor  and  glory,  when  the 
Son  of  Man  shall  come  in  the  clouds 
of  heaven,  accompanied  by  His  Saints, 
there  shall  be  one  among  them  who 
afore  time  was  known  to  this  genera- 
tion, the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  He 
will  be  there,  glorious  among  the 
mighty  ones;  honored  among  the  Gods. 
In  the  very  land  where  he  was  driven 
to  and  fro  by  his  enemies  there  shall 
he  triumph,  there  shall  he  stand  a 
prince  among  his  people,  a  prophet 
among  the  anointed  of  God,  and  the  na- 
tions shall  sing,  as  we  sing  now: 

Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with 
Jehovah; 

Jesus   anointed    "that    Prophet  and 
Seer." 

Blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation; 
Kings  shall   extol   him  and  nations 
revere. 

Hail  to  the  Prophet  .ascended  to  hea- 
ven; 

Traitors  and  tyrants  now  fight  him 
in  vain; 

Mingling  with  Gods  he  can  plan  for  his 
brethren; 

Death    cannot    conquer    that  hero 
again. 

This  great  work  of  ours — and  of  God's 
— for  it  is  both  His  and  ours — this  work 
is  the  truth.  And  will  it  win?  Why  of 
course  it  will  win.  "For  truth  is  truth, 
since  God  is  God.  and  truth  at  the  last 
must  win.  To  doubt  it  were  disloyalty; 
to  falter  would  be  sin." 

The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 

The  General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
were  presented  to  the  conference,  by 
President   Smith,   as  follows: 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and 
R^velator  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

John  R.  Winder,  as  first  counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  second  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Francis  M.  Lyman,  as  president  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve 
Apostles:  Francis  M.  Lyman,  John 
Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale,  Heber 
J.  Grant.  John  W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W. 
Merrill,    Matthias   F.   Cowley,  Rudger 


74 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Clawson,  Reed  Smoot,  Hyrum  M. 
Smith,  George  A.  Smith  and  Charles  W. 
Penrose. 

John  Smith,  as  presiding  Patriarch 
of  the  Church. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the 
presiding  Fatriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers 
and  Revelators. 

First  seven  presidents  of  Seventies: 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
ste-d.  Brig-ham  H.  Roberts,  George  Rey- 
nolds, Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston,  as  presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  Or- 
rin  P.  Miller  as  his  first  and  second 
counselors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  trustee-in-trust 
for  the  body  of  religious  worshipers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  historian 
and  general  Church  recorder. 

Andrew  Jenson,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  A. 
Milton  Musser  and  Brigham  H.  Roberts, 
assistant  historians. 

As  members  of  the  General  Church 
board  of  education:  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  John 
Nicholson,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Rud- 
ger  Clawson,  Joseph  M.  Tanner,  John 
R.  Winder  and  Charles  W.  Penrose. 

Arthur  Winter,  secretary  and  treas- 
urer. 

John  Nicholson,  as  clerk  of  the  con- 
ference. 

RELIEF  SOCIETY. 

General  Officers— Bathsheba  W.  B. 
Smith,  general  president,  Annie  Taylor 
Hyde,  first  counselor;  Ida  Smoot  Dusen- 
berry,  second  counselor;  Emmeline  B. 
Wells,  general  secretary;  Clarissa  Smith 
Williams,  general  treasurer. 

Members  Board  of  Directors,  or  Gen- 
eral Board— Jane  S.  Richards,  Sarah 
Jenne  Cannon,  M.  Isabella  Home,  Ro- 
mania B.  Penrose,  Susan  Grant,  Martha 
A.  Cannon,  Emma  S.  Woodruff, 
Julia  L.  Smith,  Ernily  S.  Richards,  Ellis 
R.  Shipn,  Julia  P.  M.  Farnsworth, 
Elizabeth  J.  Stevenson,  Phebe  Young 
Beatie,   Carrie  S.  Thomas,  Alice  Mer- 


rill Home.  Annie  Wells  Cannon,  Pris- 
cilla  P.  Jennings,  Margaret  A.  Caine. 

Missionaries — Harriet  A.  T.  Badger, 
Sophia  T.  Nuttall,  Mary  A.  C.  Lambert, 
Mary  T.  Smith,  Rebecca  E.  Little, 
Elizabeth  S.  Wilcox,  Harriet  B.  Harker, 
Friscilla  Smith. 

Superintendent  of  Relief  Society 
Nurses — Emma  A.  Empey. 

Instructor — Dr.  Margaret  C.  Roberts. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  general  superinten- 
dent; George  Reynolds,  first  assistant 
general  superintendent;  Joseph  M.  Tan- 
ner, second  assistant  general  superin- 
tendent. 

Members  of  the  Board — Joseph  F. 
Smith,  George  Reynolds,  Joseph  M. 
Tanner,  Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  Devi 
W.  Richards,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  George  Teasdale,  Hugh  J. 
Cannon,  Andrew  Kimball,  John  W. 
Taylor,  L.  John  Nuttall,  James  W.  Ure, 
John  F.  Bennett,  John  M.  Mills,  Wil- 
liam D.  Owen,  Seymour  B.  Young, 
George  D.  Pyper,  Henry  Peterson, 
Anthon  H.  Lund,  John  R.  Winder. 
James  E.  Talmage,  George  M.  Can- 
non. Horace  Cummings,  Josiah  Bur- 
rows, YV.  A.  Morton. 

George  D.  Pyper,  general  secretary; 
George  Reynolds,  general  treasurer; 
William  A.  Morton,  business  manager. 

Y.  M.  M.  I.  A. 

General  Officers — Joseph  F.  Smith, 
general  superintendent;  Heber  J. 
Grant,  B.  H.  Roberts,  assistants; 
Thomas  Hull,  secretary  and  treasurer; 
Evan  Stephens,  music  director;  Horace 
S.  Ensign,  asst.  music  director. 

Aids — Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry 
Smith,  Matthias  F.  Cowley.  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Junius  F.  Wells,  Milton  H. 
Hardy.  Rodney  C.  Badger,  George  H. 
Brimhall,  Edward  H.  Anderson,  Doug- 
las M.  Todd,  Thomas  Hull,  Nephi  L. 
Morris,  Willard  Done,  LeRoi  C.  Snow, 
Frank  Y.  Taylor.  Rudger  Clawson,  Ru- 
lon S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
Reed  Smoot,  Briant  S.  Hinckley,  Moses 
W.  Taylor,  B.  F.  Grant,  Henry  S. 
Tanner,  Hyrum  M.  Smith,  William  B. 
Dougall,   Joseph  F.   Smith,  Jr.,   O.  C. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


75 


Beebe,  Lewis  T.  Cannon,  Philip  S. 
Maycock,  Benjamin.  Goddard,  George 

A.  Smith. 

YOUNG       LADIES'     MUTUAL  IM- 
PROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. 

Officers — Elmina  S.  Taylor,  president; 
Maria  Y.  Dougall,  first  counselor;  Mar- 
tha H.  Tingey,  second  counselor;  Ann 
M.  Cannon,  secretary;  Agnes  Campbell, 
assistant  secretary;  Mae  T.  Nystrom, 
treasurer. 

Aids— Adella  W.  Eardley,  Sarah  Ed- 
dington.  Agnes  Campbell,  Lillie  1". 
Freeze,  Susa  Young  Gates,  Minnie  J. 
Snow,  May  B.  Talmage,  Joan  Campbell, 
Emma  N.  Goddard,  Rose  W.  Bennett, 
Alice  K.  Smith,  Elizabeth  C.  McCune, 
Ruth  M.  Fox,  Julia  M.  Brixen,  Augusta 
W.  Grant,  Mary  A.  Freeze,  Estelle  Neff, 
Nellie  C.  Taylor,  Emily  C,  Adams,  Mary 
E.  Connelly,  Elen  Wallace. 

Alice  Tuddenham,  music  director; 
Mattie  Read,  organist;  Lizzie  Thomas, 
assistant  organist. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATIONS. 

Members  of  the  General  Board — Louie 

B.  Felt,  president;  Lillie  T.  Freeze, 
first  counselor;  Josephine  R.  West,  sec- 
ond counselor;  May  .Anderson,  secre- 
tary and  treasurer;  Olive  D.  Christen- 
sen,  assistant  secretary;  Vera  I.  Felt, 
recording  secretary;  Margaret  Hull, 
chorister;  Norma  Fenton,  organist. 

Aids  to  the  General  Board — Aurelia  S. 
Rogers,  L.  L.  Greene  Richards,  Isabelle 
S.  Ross,  Camilla  C.  Cobb,  Euphemia  I. 
Burnham,  Eliza  Slade  Bennion,  Edna 
L.  Smith,  Josephine  G.  Smith,  Ida  B. 
Smith,  Clara  W.  Beebe,  Minnie  Love- 
land  Snow,  Edna  Harker,  Lilian  L. 
Maeser,  Grace  Folland,  Allie  Howarth, 
Annie  N.  Wallace. 

RELIGION  CLASS  BOARD. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  general  superintend- 
ent: Rudger  Clawson,  first  assistant; 
Joseph  M.  Tanner,  second  assistant;  L. 
John  Nuttall,  general  secretary. 

John  M.  Mills,  Henry  Peterson,  Hor- 
ace Cummings,  Joseph  W.  Summer- 
hays,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Hyrum  M. 
Smith,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  Louis  A.  Kelsch,  John  H.  Ev- 
ans. 


Board  of  Examiners  of  Church 
Schools— Joseph  M.  Tanner,  Benj.  Cluff, 
Jr.,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Joshua  H. 
Paul,  James  H.  Linford. 

Joseph  M.  Tanner,  general  superin- 
tendent of  Church  schools. 

Evan  Stephens  as  director  of  the 
Tabernacle  choir;  Geo.  C.  Smith,  secre- 
tary; Sidney  Phillips,  treasurer;  J.  J. 
McClellan,  organist,  and  all  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Tabernacle  choir. 

The  vote  to  sustain  was  affirmative 
throughout. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

It  gives  me  pleasure  to  announce  that, 
so  far  as  my  eye  could  detect,  the  vot- 
ing has  been  unanimous  in  favor  of 
sustaining  the  officers  whose  names 
have  been  presented  before  the  confer- 
ence. I  now  only  need  to  express  the 
hope  that  we  will  sustain  by  our  faith 
and  prayers,  by  our  good  works  and 
words,  and  by  our  confidence  and  love, 
all  these  men  and,  women  who  are  called 
tc  officiate  in  these  responsible  positions 
in  the  Church,  as  we  have  sustained 
them  this  day  by  the  lifting-up  of  our 
bands. 

May  God  help  us  to  be  united  and 
strong  for  in  union  there  is  strength, 
and  our  strength  will  be  made  more 
and  more  manifest  among  men  in  pro- 
portion as  we  manifest  our  union  and 
our  love  one  for  another,  and  for  the 
children  of  men,  and  especially  for  the 
cause  of  Zion.  God  bless  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
God  bless  good  and  honest  men  every- 
where. May  the  blessing  of  peace  rest 
upon  our  great  nation.  May  the  favor 
of  the  Lord  accompany  our  people 
throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of 
our  broad  land,  and  upon  the  islands 
or'  the  seas,  where  the  benefits  of  our 
glorious  government  are  being  extend- 
ed for  the  uplifting  of  the  heathen  ana 
for  the  civilization  of  nations  which 
have  for  ages  dwelt  in  barbarism  and 
ignorance.  May  God  bless  those  who 
bless  our  nation  and  our  people,  and 
may  the  mercies  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  be  extended  unto  our  enemies 
and  those  who  would  overthrow  us  and 
wipe  us  out  of  existence  if  it  were  in 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


their  power.  May  they  repent  that  He 
may  forgive  them,  open  their  eyes  and 
soften  their  hearts,  that  they  may  fore- 
see the  pits  into  which  they  are  hast- 
ening, and  that  they  may  turn  away 
from  their  sins  in  time  to  receive  the 
clemency  and  mercy  of  our  all-forgiv- 
ing Father,  and  be  saved  at  last  in  His 
Kingdom.  These  are  my  prayers  and 
my  earnest  desires  in  behalf  of  the  peo- 
ple of  God  and  of  all  the  peoples  of  the 
earth,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 

It  will  be  remembered  that  at  our 
last  conference  a  resolution  was  passed 
providing  for  a  memorial  to  the  mar- 
tyred Prophet  and  Patriarch.  The  plans 
have  been  prepared  and  are  now  in  the 


hands  of  the  trustee-in-trust,  and  the 
work  will  soon  be  commenced.  We  ex- 
pect to  have  it  completed  and  ready 
for  dedication  on  the  anniversary  of  the 
birth  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
Dec.  23,  1905. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem  "Hosan- 
nah!" 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  John 
Smith,  presiding  Patriarch  of  the 
Church. 

The  conference  adjourned  for  six 
months. 

The  stenographic  work  in  taking  an 
account  of  the  proceedings  was  done  by 
Elder  Arthur  Winter. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 
Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET   SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Its  Semi-Annual  Conference,  Held  in  the  Tabernacle,. 
Sunday  Evening,  October  9,  1904. 


The  conference  was  called  to  order  by- 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  general  su- 
perintendent. 

Singing  by  choir  and  congregation, 
"If  there's  sunshine  in  your  heart." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Josiah  Burrows. 

Singing  by  the  choir,"Peace,  Be  Still." 

General  Secretary  George  D.  Pyper 
called  the  roll  of  stakes. 

Assistant  General  Superintendent 
George  Reynolds  said  a  few  reports 
from  stake  superintendents  would  first 
be  called  for,  and  in  those  reports  he 
hoped  the  brethren  would  make  refer- 
ence to  the  conventions  that  have  been 
held  In  their  midst,  and  give  some  idea 
of  the  results. 

SUPT.  JOSEPH  J.  JACKSON, 
Of  the  Alpine  Stake. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  can  say 
that  the  Sunday  school  work  is  grow- 
ing in  the  Alpine  Stake  of  Zion.  Our 
convention,  held  in  Provo,  has  done  a 
wonderful  work  in  the  Sunday  school 
cause.  It  has  interested  many  who, 
before  the  convention,  were  lukewarm, 
and  many  who  were  idlers  in  Zion,  who 
attended  the  convention,  have  become 
workers.  The  Sunday  schools  in  the  Al- 
pine stake  are  up  to  par.  We  have  70 
per  cent  of  the  children  represented  in 
our  Sunday  schools.  "We  have  in  at- 
tendance 73  per  cent  of  teachers  and  of- 
ficers. This  standard  is  not  high 
enough  for  the  teachers  and  officers; 
we  feel  that  we  ought  to  have  at  least 
85  per  cent,  for  when  any  take  upon 
them  the  high  and  holy  calling  of  an 
officer  or  a  teacher  in  the  Sunday 
school,  they  then  give  their  allegiance 
to  God,  to  help  roll  on  His  glorious  pur- 
poses upon  the  earth 


We  have  many  Seventies  who  an* 
teachers  in  Sunday  school,  and 
it  is  an  unpleasant  thing  to 
me  to  state,  after  being  one  of 
the  presidents  of  seventy,  that  some  of 
them  are  numbered  among  the  15  or  20 
per  cent  who  do  not  attend  to  their 
duties  in  Sunday  School.  My  brethren 
and  sisters,  the  calling  of  the  Seventy 
is  to  preach  the  Gospel  at  home  as 
well  as  abroad.  The  calling  of  an  El- 
der is  to  preach  the  Gospel  at  home 
as  well  as  abroad.  And  we  are  trying 
to  impress  upon  the  minds  of  the  breth- 
ren holding  the  holy  priesthood  that 
it  is  their  duty  to  be  in  Sunday  School, 
that  they  should  be  there  at  least  15 
minutes  to  10  o'clock,  that  their  ex- 
ample may  go  forth  before  the  children 
and  have  its  effect. 

In  the  Alpine  stake  we  have  300 
teachers,  most  of  whom  are  devoted  to 
the  cause.  They  love  the  Sunday 
School  work,  and  it  is  through  their 
love  for  the  cause  that  we  are  enabled 
to  have  70  per  cent  of  the  children  in 
attendance.  A  year  and  a  half  ago 
there  was  only  49  per  cent  who  at- 
tended the  Sabbath  School.  Since  that 
time  we  have  taken  up  a  labor  with  the 
parents;  we  have  impressed  upon  their 
minds  the  revelation  that  is  recorded 
in  the  Sixty-eighth  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Co  /enants,  on  the  relation  of 
parents  to  children  and  of  children  to 
parents.  We  have  tried  to  impress 
upon  the  minds  of  the  parents  that  it  is 
their  duty  to  see  that  their  children 
are  in  Sunday  school,  and  it  is  their 
duty  to  teach  their  children  the  true 
and  everlasting  Gospel.  During  the 
14  ward   conferences  that     we  have- 


78 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


held  in  the  Alpine  stake,  many  of  the 
Bishops  have  given  us  two  and  in  some 
three,  sessions,  and  during-  the  after- 
noon and  the  evening,  we  have  called 
the  parents  together,  and  we  have 
pointed  out  to  them  the  necessity  of 
sending  their  children  to  the  Sunday 
school.  We  try  to  convert  the  parents, 
and  I  believe  that  there  are  now  50  per 
cent  of  the  parents  in  the  Alpine  stake 
of  Zion,  who  are  converted  to  the  work 
of  the  Sunday  School. 

The  "Outlines"  have  done  a  wonder- 
ful work.  I  believe  that  every  school 
is  furnished  with  them  and  is  using 
them  to  good  advantage1.  There  are 
fifteen  schools  in  Alpine  stake.  We 
nave  now  organized  a  Sunday  School 
in  Manning,  and  we  hope  that  in  the 
near  future  we  can  again  organize  one 
in  Sunshine.  There  are  a  few  families 
there,  and  wherever  there  are  a  few 
families  we  organize  a  Sunday  School, 
for  we  find  much  good  comes  from  it. 
We  have  many  good  men  and  women 
in  the  Alpine  stake  of  Zion.  We  have 
a  splendid  Union  Board,  and  I  believe 
they  are  all  united,  and  love  one  an- 
other. We  meet  often,  and  we  talk  over 
the  Sunday  School  cause  in  our  stake 
and  in  other  stakes,  and  if  there  are 
any  points  that  we  can  grasp  that  will 
better  our  condition,  we  grasp  them,  for 
it  is  the  desire  of  our  hearts,  to  make 
the  Sunday  Schools  of  the  Alpine  stake 
of  Zion  as  good  as  those  of  any  stake  in 
.the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  are  working  to  that 
end,  and  if  God  will  give  unto  us  His 
Spirit  and  bless  us,  we  will  accomplish 
the  desires  of  our  hearts. 

I  know  that  the  work  is  true.  I 
know  that  the  Sunday  school  cause,  is 
true,  and  I  hope  that  there  are  no 
idlers  under  the  sound  of  my  voice, 
and  that  Zion  will,  not  be  condemned 
through  the  idlers  that  are  in  her,  but 
that  we  may  all  become  workers,  not 
only  in  the  Sunday  School,  but  in  Mu- 
tual Improvement  and  in  Religion  class 
work,  and  in  whatever  we  may  be 
called  to  do.  God  bless  the  noble  cause 
of  the  Sunday  School,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ASSISTANT   SUPERINTENDENT  E. 
D.  HARRISON, 

Of  the  Pocatello  Stake  of  Zion. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  with  you  I 
rejoice  in  the  Sabbath  school  work. 
Pocatello  stake  is  situated  very  peculi- 
arly to  be  successful  in  the  work  that 
is  given  to  us  by  the  General  Board 
from  time  to  time.  Pocatello  is  situ- 
ated nearly  in  the  middle  of  the  stake. 
The  farthest  school  to  the  northwest  is 
47  miles  away,  the  farthest  school  to 
the  south  is  50  miles.  The  nearest 
school  to  Pocatello  is  12  miles  away, 
the  next  it  25.  It  means  a  railroad 
fare  of  $1.40  to  $2.60  each  time  that  any 
member  of  the  board  makes  a  trip.  We 
have  raised  no  funds  for  this  purpose 
in  our  stake,  but  we  have  paid  it  out 
of  our  own  pockets,  and  each  of  us  is 
laboring  to  maintain  himself  and  fam- 
ily in  Pocatello,  and  when  we  leave  it 
means  additional  expense  besides  our 
railroad  fare,  for  many  times  we  have 
to  pay  some  one  to  care  for  the  inter- 
ests or  the  labor  that  we  are  engaged 
in,  while  we  attend  to  the  Sabbath 
school  work.  This  is  the  condition  of 
some  of  the  members  of  the  Sabbath 
School  Board. 

We  have  17  schools  in  the  Pocatello 
stake,  but  only  10  wards.  There  have 
been  branch  schools  organized,  and 
they  have  been  very  small,  but  they 
have  accomplished  some  good,  and  they 
have  gone  along,  struggling  under  the 
conditions  in  which  they  were  placed, 
and  they  have  all  kept  up  the  interest, 
excepting  two,  which  have  died  a  na- 
tural death' through  neglect. 

The  average  attendance  of  our  offi- 
cers has  been  a  trifle  over  50  per  cent. 
There  is  scarcely  a  school,  excepting 
the  one  situated'  at  Pocatello,  where 
they  do  not  live  from  a  mile  to  nine 
miles  from  the  place  where  the  school 
meets.  The  consequence  is,  that  the 
conditions  that  they  have  to  meet  are 
anything  but  the  best,  and  the  attend- 
ance is  not  so  great,  as  it  would  be  if 
they  were  better. 

The  pupils  on  an  average  attend  at 
the  rate  of  60  per  cent.  The  weather 
and  the  busy  times  and  seasons  have 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL.  UNION. 


79 


much  to  do  with  the  attendance  in  our 
schools.  We  hold  a  union  meeting'  in  the 
south  one  month,  and  in  the  west  the 
next  month.  Our  Sunday  School 
workers  are  not  yet  fully  converted  to 
the  Union  meeting's,  but  I  will  say  that 
they  have  taken  great  interest,  and 
there  has  been  some  zeal  manifested 
isince  we  had  our  conventionwhich.while 
not  a  glaring  success,  was  at  least  a 
profitable  thing  to  all  who  attended. 
We  were  combined  with  the  Bannock 
stake.  In  the  Bannock  stake  the  near- 
est school  is  something  over  45  miles 
from  Pocatello,  and  the  farthest  is 
about  SO. 

Our  convention  work  was  positive- 
ly a  successful  thing  to  all  who  at- 
tended, but  we  labored  under  great 
difficulties  at  that  particular  time.  We 
had  a  fair  or  a  carnival  that  week.  We 
had  a  circus  there  the  same  week,  and 
the  people  came  in  to  the  carnival  and 
circus,  and  by  the  time  Saturday  came 
for  our  convention,  they  were  worn 
out  and  their  friends  who  entertained 
them  were  worn  out,  and  many  of  the 
people  went  home,  not  waiting  for  the 
convention. 

I  will  say  that  all  of  the  Sunday 
School  workers  in  our  stake  are  earn- 
est and  sincere  in  their  work,  and  I 
believe  that  they  do  the  very  best 
they  can  under  the  circumstances,  and 
I  certaintly  have  a  very  high  esteem 
for  every  worker  in  our  stake,  for  I 
know  that  they  all  try  to  do  their  best. 

I  feel  somewhat  encouraged  of,  late, 
because  we  have  had  a  little  better 
success  in  our  Union  meeting^.  We 
have  had  more  in  attendance,  and  we 
have  succeeded  better  in  presenting  the 
ideas  that  will  tend  to  the  end  of  get- 
ting better  teachers,  which  will  make 
better  classes  and  better  Sunday  school 
pupils. 

I  ask  God  to  add  His  blessings  to  all 
the  Sabbath  school  workers. 

ELDER  E.  C.  PHILLIPS, 

Of  the  St.  Joseph  Stake. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  reporting 
the  condition  of  the  Sunday  schools  of 


the  St.  Joseph  Stake,  I  desire  to  be 
prompted  by  the  Spirit  of  our  Heaven- 
ly Father. 

Up  to  the  present  time  we  have  had 
no  convention;  but  we  hold  our  union 
meetings  once  a  month,  and  we  have  a 
good  attendance.  We  there  conduct 
classes  and  give  general  instruc- 
tions to  the  Sunday  school  workers. 

We  have  sixteen  Sunday  schools  in 
our  stake,  and  some  of  them  are  far 
removed  from  the  headquarters  of  our 
stake,  one  of  them  being  about  150 
miles  away.  But  it  has  been  my  pleas- 
ure to  visit  all  the  Sunday  schools  of 
the  St.  Joseph  Stake  in  the  last  seven 
or  eight  months,  and  I  have  found 
them  all  in  very  good  condition,  al- 
though some  of  them  have  not  as  good 
an  attendance  as  we  would  wish. 

Our  average  attendance,  I  think,  is 
about  50  per  cent.  We  have  1,890  Sun- 
day school  teachers,  officers  and  pu- 
pils; and  the  teachers  as  a  rule  are  try- 
ing to  inform  themselves  on  the  best 
methods  of  Sunday  school  work.  Since 
we  have  had  the  "Outlines,"  our  Sun- 
day school  work  has  improved  wonder- 
fully, so  much  so  that  it  seems  to  me 
that  now  we  could  hardly  do  without 
them. 

We  have  held  most  of  our  ward  con- 
ferences this,  summer,  and  we  are  now 
holding  parents'  conventions,  which 
are  doing  a  great  deal  of  good  for  the 
children.  The  stake  superintendent 
and  his  assistants  are  united  in  their 
labor  for  the  betterment  of  the  Sunday 
school  work.  We  also  have  a  good 
Union  Board  that  can  hardly  be  beaten 
in  any  stake. 

I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  to 
the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel.  I  know 
that  it  is  true,  and  that  if  we,  as  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  and  Sunday  school 
workers  will  live  up  to  its  precepts,  we 
shall  gain  an  exaltation  in  our  Father's 
kingdom.  And  may  the  instructions 
that  we  have  heard  in  our  conference 
find  lodgment  in  our  hearts,  and  do  us 
the  good  that  it  is  intended  they  should 
do,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


80 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


ASSISTANT  SUPERINTENDENT 
CHARLES  J.  ROSS. 

(Of  the  Weber  Stake.) 

The  greatest  pleasure  that  I  have  in 
this  life,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  to 
say  a  good  word  for  the  work  in  which 
I  am  engaged.  I  have  been  actively 
engaged  in  the  Sunday  school  work  for 
a  great  number  of  years,  and  I  want 
to  state  that  I  thoroughly  enjoy  it. 

In  the  Weber  stake  we  have  enrolled 
7,713  pupils.  We  have  an  average  at- 
tendance of  70  per  cent  of  pupils,  with 
an  average  of  punctuality  of  85  per 
cent.  The  per  cent  of  teachers  and  of- 
ficers is  75.  We  have  30  schools  in  the 
stake,  and  in  each  ward  except  two. 
we  hold  a  9:30  o'clock  prayer  meeting. 
First  of  all  the  roll  is  called,  then  a 
hjmn  is  sung,  then  we  pray. 
These  prayer  meetings,  as  sug- 
gested by  the  General  Board, 
we  find  of  untold  benefit  to  our 
officers  and  teachers,  and  it  has  a  ten- 
dency to  increase  the  punctuality,  not 
only  of  the  officers  and  teachers,  but  of 
the  pupils.  We  hold  our  regular  week- 
ly board  meetings  each  Tuesday  night, 
never  failing.  We  hold  our  regular  lo- 
cal Sunday  School  board  meetings  in 
each  ward  one  night  a  week.  At  these 
board  meetings,  a  great  deal  of  good  is 
done.  We  find  that  it  is  impossible  for 
active  Sunday  School  workers  to  be 
thoroughly  prepared  with  their  duties 
for  the  Sunday  morning,  unless  they 
are  in  attendance  at  these  weekly  meet- 
ings, unless  they  come  with  an  out- 
line prepared,  and  are  ready  to  discuss 
and  bring  out  all  points  pertaining  to 
the  lesson  or  work  to  be  developed  and 
impressed  upon  the  minds  of  the  child- 
ren. These  meetings  are  indeed  of  un- 
told value  to  the  Sunday  school  work- 
ers of  the  Weber  stake. 

We  are  holding  Sunday  school  con- 
ventions throughout  our  stake,  usually 
four  weeks  apart,  we  meet  at  a  desig- 
nated place  on  the  Sunday  afternoon, 
and  there  we  have  our  opening  exercis- 
es, and  then  adjourn  to  department 
work,  where  we  have  an  enjoyable  time 
developing  lessons,  instructing  our 
teachers  and  our  officers  along  the  lines 
that  are  most    beneficial    and  most 


adapted  to  bring  out  the  individuality. 
The  stake  district  convention,  held  in 
Ogden,  was  indeed  a  most  glorious 
thing  for  the  Weber  stake,  and  I  want 
to  say  that  the  Weber  stake  will  wel- 
come another  convention,  no  matter 
where  it  may  be  held.  We  hope  to  have 
one,  and  will  welcome  it  with  open 
arms. 

We  could  not  get  along  without  the 
Outlines,  and  we  have  something  like 
3,000  of  them  distributed  among  the  pu- 
pils and  in  the  hands  of  the  parents. 
We  are  trying  to  encourage  home 
preparation,  and  I  believe  that  we  are 
doing  well  in  this  regard. 

Our  Parents'  Conventions,  which  we 
have  held  in  every  ward  in  the  stake, 
have  resulted  in  a  very  great  deal  of 
good  to  home  preparation  work.  We 
have  interested  the  parents  in  many, 
many  cases.  We  are  striving  to  get 
more  of  the  home  in  the  Sunday 
school,  and  more  of  the  Sunday  school 
in  the  home.  When  we  can  accomplish 
this,  we  feel  that  we  have  done  some 
good. 

We  hope  to  be  able  to  work  along  the 
lines  suggested  by  the  General  Board. 
I  pray  God's  blessings  upon  them  and 
upon  all  Sunday  school  workers,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Bro.  William  D.  Philips  sang  a  beau- 
tiful sacred  solo,  entitled,  "Come  unto 
me  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy 
laden." 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 

I  am  asked  to  occupy  a  few  minutes 
in  addressing  myself  to  the  stake 
boards  and  superintendents  particular- 
ly, and  the  topic  assigned  me  is  that 
of  grading  the  classes. 

In  the  "Outlines"  that  have  been  fur- 
nished you,  you  find  a  suggestion  as 
to  the  basis  upon  which  this  grading 
shall  be  effected.  For  example,  you 
read  that  the  kindergarten  department 
shall  be  graded  on  the  basis  of  age, 
from  the  end  of  the  fourth  year  to  the 
end  of  the  sixth;  the  primary  depart- 
ment, from  seven  years  to  eight  yearsA 
inclusive,  that  is,  from  the  beginning  of 
the  seventh  to  the  end  of  the  eighth*; 
the  first  intermediate,  from  the  ninth  to 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL,  UNION. 


81 


the  twelfth,  inclusive;  second  inter- 
mediate, from  the  thirteenth  to  the  six- 
teenth, inclusive;  and  the  theological 
from  the  seventeenth  year  upward.  I 
find  it  here  seventeen  to  twenty,  but  I 
have  always  allowed  myself  to  fancy 
that  that  is  a  misprint,  and  that  a  zero 
has  been  left  out,  and  that  it  means 
from  seventeen  to  two  hundred,  because 
I  have  not  yet  learned  that  there  is 
any  fixed  age  beyond  which  one  may 
not  attend,  and  we  want  the  man  of  90 
and  100,  if  he  is  able  to  come  along,  to 
be  there. 

But  the  fact  is,  as  it  has  come  to  the 
notice  and  knowledge  of  the  board  and 
its  officers,  that  some  superintendents 
are  applying  this  suggestion  according 
to  the  letter,  rather  than  the  spirit 
thereof;  and  they  think  that  all  the 
members  of  the  Sunday  school  must  be 
graded  according  to  their  ages,  and 
that  there  is  no  other  qualification  to 
consider.  Grading  would  be  an  easy 
matter  indeed  if  that  were  a  true  prin- 
ciple. I  wonder  how  those  in  charge  of 
large  educational  institutions  would  feel 
if  such  a  course  were  allowable.  I  know 
that  in  the  state  university,  we  should 
be  saved  a  great  deal  of  work  if,  as 
soon  as  a  student  presents  himself,  we 
required  only  a  proper  certificate  of 
age,  and  then  classed  him  accordingly. 
But  we  have  to  follow  a  different  plan. 
We  have  to  take  the  student  in  hand, 
whether  he  has  just  come  from  the  lower 
grade  schools  or,  perhaps,  has  reached 
an  advanced  stage  in  college  work,  and 
examine  him  very  carefully  to  find  out 
where  he  belongs.  We  ma^  make  mis- 
takes, ofttimes  do,  without  doubt,  but 
we  try  to  do  the  best  we  can,  and  place 
the  student  accordingly.  Then  you  say, 
what  need  of  making  any  suggestion  on 
the  basis  of  age  There  is  great  need 
and  good  need  for  it^.  There  is  a  law,  if 
you  please,  founded  upon  a  true  prin- 
ciple that,  all  other  things  being  equal, 
the  older  the  boy  or  the  girl,  the  more 
he  will  know.  Now  there  are  excep- 
tions to  that  law.  We  find  that  the 
varying  ability  of  the  individual  stu- 
dent will  sometimes  offset  what  would 
seem  to  be  a  state  of  advancement 
based  on  age.    I  have  seen  in  a  few 


cases  injury  done  by  over-zealous  su- 
perintendents who  were  determined  to 
follow  the  letter  of  that  principle  and 
not  consider  the  spirit  in  which  it  is 
suggested.  And  yet  I  find  that  the 
general  superintend  iicy,  in  putting  out 
these  outlines,  has  taken  occasion  to 
have  printed  in  italics,  and  in  a  very 
prominent  place,  "The  ages  assigned  are 
only  suggestive."  That  has  been  ovei- 
looked  in  many  cases.  We  find  oft- 
times  that  young  boys  and  young  girls, 
of  age  entitling  them  to  membership  in 
the  higher  intermediate  departments, 
may  reasonably  be  given  work  in  the 
lower  of  the  theological  classes;  and  I 
say  you  cannot  grade  properly,  super- 
intendents, you  cannot  do  it,  unless  you 
have  the  spirit  of  your  calling  with 
you;  such,  however,  will  give  you  that 
good,  sound  common  sense  that  will  en- 
able you  to  interpret  this  suggestion  in 
the  spirit  of  it  and  grade  your  pupils 
accordingly. 

I  venture  to  call  attention  io  the  fact 
that  we  are  not  to  mistake  superficial 
preparation  for  actual  preparation.  We 
find  some  pupils  who  can  read  well,  and 
who  are  therefore  placed  in  a  class 
higher  than  the  one  to  which  they 
rightfully  belong.  The  question  is,  does 
the  student  understand  what  he  reads. 
Don't  put  a  pupil  in  a  class  beyond  his 
grade,  and  don't  go  to  the  other  ex- 
treme. I  have  seen  in  many  of  our  dis- 
trict schools,  and  in  our  Church  schoots 
young  men  of  even  middle  age  enter, 
lacking  much  in  the  way  of  primary 
preparation;  and  I  have  always  re- 
joiced that  in  those  schools,  something 
other  than  age,  or  scholarship  alone 
had  to  be  considered,  for  I  have  seen 
such  men  put  into  a  special  class  with 
a  special  teacher,  rather  than  have 
them  humiliated  by  putting  them  down 
just  where  they  belonged  upon  the  basis 
of  a  question  of  examination  as  to 
strict  scholarship. 

Let  Wisdom  rule  in  all  things,  and  if 
you  are  in  doubt,  and  you  really  don't 
know  how  to  decide,  there  are  others 
with  whom  you  may  counsel;  more- 
over the  channel  of  prayer  is  always 
open  to  you,  and  you  have  a  right  to 
ask  and  expect  the  inspiration  of  the 


82 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Lord  to  lead  you  in  the  performance  of 
your  duties. 

A  great  teacher  was  once  asked,  al- 
though he  was  a  specialist,  a  professor 
of  one  subject,  "Hew  many  classes  have 
you  every  day?"  And  he  said,  "Eigh- 
teen, sir."  His  questioner  was  sur- 
prised. "Eighteen  classes  in  a  day?" 
"Yes,  eighteen  every  day."  But  the  in- 
quirer soon  found  that  he  had  one  class 
of  18  members,  every  one  of  whom  was 
a  separate  class  to  him.  He  didn't 
bunch  them  all  together  and  measure 
them  by  the  same  rc%.  He  inquired  in- 
to the  capabilities  of  each,  felt  of  the 
spirit  of  each,  and  learned  to  study  and 
understand  each,  then  acted  according- 
ly. Sunday  school  teachers,  you  have 
just  as  many  classes  on  your  hands  as 
you  have  pupils,  if  you  are  doing  your 
duty,  and  you  should  know  much  about 
them  individually;  then  you  can  assist 
the  superintendent  if  he  comes  with 
questions  as  to  the  grading  and  placing 
of  this  student  or  that. 

Now  don't  understand  me  as  offering 
unfavorable  criticism.  Judging  from  the 
reports  that  have  been  made,  here  to- 
night by  stake  superintendents,  there  is 
little  cause  for  fault  finding;  for  all 
testified  that  they  are  getting  along  so 
well — they  did  not  say  the  rest,  but  I 
will  finish  it — that  they  can  and  will  do 
a  great  deal  better.  I  believe,  too,  that 
all  they  have  said  is  true.  I  have  visit- 
ed some  of  the  stakes  reported,  have 
had  that  privilege  and  pleasure,  and 
know  that  the  reports  are  true,  for  I 
know  that  the  schools  there  are  of  a 
high  standard;  and  I  believe  that  the 
schools  throughout  Zion  are  of  a  high 
standard,  and  I  believe  that  we  are 
.connected  with  a  living,  growing  cause. 
Yet  there  are  some  points  in  connection 
with  which  we  may  do  a  great  deal 
better. 

I  call  to  mind  an  experience  of  my 
own  when  I  was  visiting  in  the  capacity 
of  a  stake  officer  a  certain  Sunday 
school  years  ago,  and  found  a  number 
of  the  older  brethren  gathered  together 
into  a  class,  and  they  were  flocking  by 
themselves  in  a  little  room  down  in  the 
basement.  There  was  one  exception — 
a      nine     year     old     boy     who  was 


also  a  member  of  the  class.  They  wei  ■> 
studying  Josephus,  a  very  good  work, 
but  hardly  suitable  as  a  Sunday  sCllOci 
text-book,  however  valued  it  may  be  as 
a  reference  work  for  preparation.  They 
had  clubbed  together  and  had  bought 
these  books,  and  were  reading  Jo- 
se phus.  I  asked  the  superintendent 
how  it  was  that  that  boy  was  there 
with  those  veterans,  and  suggested  that 
possibly  it  was  a  little  out  of  order. 
"Why,"  said  he,  "he  can  read  as  well 
as  the  best  of  them,  and  he  has  bought 
a  book,  too."  Now  I  don't  believe  thar 
that  was  an  extreme  case  illustrative  of 
conditions  years  ago.  I  don't  believe 
you  could  find  an  instance  of  that  kind 
in  all  the  schools  today.  We  know 
there  is  something  in  the  method  of 
grading,  but  we  must  not  carry  the 
matter  too  far.  The  best  of  principles 
may  be  hurtfully  and  injuriously  ap- 
plied. We  do  not  always  realize  that. 
We  are  trying  to  inculcate  the  principle 
and  the  piactice  of  punctuality,  but  1 
have  seen  that  principle  carried  so  far, 
or  at  least  have  seen  it  so  misapplied 
as  to  do  injury;  for  example,  I  have 
known  superintendents  who  have  said, 
"If  you  can't  get  here  on  time,  don't 
come;  we  are  going  to  close  the  doors; 
we  are  not  going  to  be  disturbed  by 
late  comers."  Now  they  may  be  correct 
under  some  few  conditions,  but  I  say  to 
my  class,  and  I  have  charge  of  a  Sun- 
day school  class  every  Sunday,  "If  you 
can't  possibly  be  here  at  ten  o'clock.and 
can  get  here  five  minutes  afterward, 
come;  don't  be  late  if  you  can  possi- 
bly help  it,  but  come;  and  if  you  can't 
get  here  until  half-past  ten,  come  then, 
if  you  have  any  good  excuse  for  being 
late.  If  you  have  an  excuse  that  is 
worth  anything  when  judged  by  your 
own  conscience,  it  is  of  avail  when  we 
judge  you  according  to  the  rule,  and 
we  wish  you  to  come."  I  don't  want 
to  see  punctuality  carried  to  such  an 
extreme  as  to  make  it  appear  that  when 
anyone  is  late,  he  is  unwelcome,  provid- 
ed he  has  a  good  excuse.  And  so  with 
every  rule.  So  many  mistakes  arc- 
made  in  this  .world,  through  men  tak- 
ing laws  to  be  rules  and  rules  to  be 
laws.      We  do  not  want  you  to  take  a 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL,  UNION. 


83 


fifteen  year  old.  boy  and  put  him  in 
the  primary  department.  There  is  a 
place  provided  for  him.  He  belongs  in 
the  second  intei mediate,  if  he  is  well  up 
to  date  in  his  prepai'ation.  And  pa- 
rents should  co-operate  in  aiding  to 
keep  these  students  up  to  date,  up  to 
their  age  limit  and  grade  in  preparation. 
I  sincerely  trust  that  the  suggestion  will 
be  taken  in  good  part,  and  that  you 
will  try  to  grade  according  to  ability 
and  age.  Do  not  needlessly  hurt  the 
pupil's  feelings.  Do  not  put  him  back 
and  make  him  repeat  a  course  of  study 
if  with  profit  he  can  be  promoted  to  a 
higher  one. 

I  say  again,  brethren,  let  us  have  the 
spirit  of  our  calling  with  us,  and  we 
will  be  able  to  interpret  the  spirit  of 
these  suggestions,  the  spirit  in  which 
they  are  offered;  and  may  we  rejoice  in 
that  spirit  and  In  the  results  that  fol- 
low it,  as  it  accompanies  our  labors. 
Amen. 

Elder  George  D.  Pyper,  accompanied 
in  the  chorus  by  the  choir,  sang  Mem- 
ories of  Galilee. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON. 

I  am  sure  the  Lord  knows  how  hard 
it  is  for  me  to  stand  up  before  this  vast 
congregation,  and  I  sincerely  trust  that 
He  will  bless  me  with  a  portion  of  His 
Holy  Spirit.  I  feel  at  home  in  a  pri- 
mary class,  but  this  primary  class  is 
too  large  for  me. 

I  am  going  to  tell  you  a  little  of  my 
experience.  But  before  doing  so  I 
want  to  thank  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  sustaining  me  in  the  posi- 
tion to  which  I  have  been  called.  I 
thank  the  General  Board  and  the  pre- 
siding officers  of  the  Church  that  they 
have  considered  me  worthy  to  be  identi- 
fied with  the  Sunday  school  movement. 
I  cannot  believe  my  eyes.  Why,  it  seems 
to  me  but  a  year  or  two  since  I  was 
a  little,  barefoot  boy,  sitting  on  a  bench 
in  a  Sunday  school  in  the  north  of  Ire- 
land, listening  to  Bible  stories  told  me 
by  my  teacher,  and  it  seems  almost  in- 
credible that  I  am  here  tonight  before 
this  great  assembly. 

I  want  to  speak  a  good  word  for  my 
first  Sunday  school  teacher.  She  did 
(Vol  belong  to  the  Church,  but  she  loved 


little  boys.  She  used  to  come  to  Sunday 
school,  gather  us  around  her,  and  teach 
us  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  far  as 
she  knew  it.  1  have  not  seen  her  for 
twenty-five  years,  but  a  little  while  ago 
I  sat  down  and  wrote  her  a  letter,  in 
which  I  said,  "Teacher,  I  haven't  seen 
you  for  twenty-five  years,  and  yet  I  see 
you  all  the  time.  I  see  myself  as  a  boy, 
sitting  at  your  feet  in  that  Sunday 
school;  I  see  your  smiling  face;  I  hear 
your  loving  voice,  as  you  tell  me  of  the 
love  of  God,  and  teach  me  to  love  Him 
and  keep  His  commandments.  And  now 
I  thank  you  for  what  you  did  for  me. 
Some  time,  somewhere,  in  eternity  I 
will  find  you,  and  then  I  will  tell  you 
face  to  face  how  much  I  appreciate  the 
interest  you  took  in  me,  and  try  to  re- 
pay you  tor  all  the  kindness  you  be- 
stowed upon  me." 

Yes,  that  teacher  loved  us,  and  I  be- 
lieve she  took  a  special  interest  in  me; 
I  believe  the  Lord  inspired  her  to  do  so. 
She  used  to  take  her  little  class  to  her 
home,  where  she  would  serve  us  with 
lemonade  and  cake,  and  then  tell  us 
stories  about  the  Lord  Jesus. 

I  learned  to  love  her;  I  love  her  still. 
She  is  a  member  of  the  Presbyterian 
church,  but  I  know  that  the  Lord  loves 
her,  because  she  is  a  good  woman.  All 
women  are  good,  but  1  believe  some  are 
just  a  little  better  than  others,  and  I 
think  she  belonged  to  the  latter  class. 

I  want  to  appeal  to  you  teachers — 
you  teachers  who  sometimes  get  dis- 
couraged; you  teachers  who  sometimes 
feel  cross;  you  teachers  who  feel  like 
sending  the  little  boys  home— don't  do 
it.  Be  patient  with  them  a  little  long- 
er. Take  them  to  the  Lord  in  prayer. 
You  don't  know  who  you  are  teaching 
Let  us  try  to  remember  that  we  wer's 
once  boys  and  girls,  some  of  us  not 
near  so  good  as  the  boys  and  girls  we 
are  teaching.  But  we  have  begun  to 
lcok  at  things  a  little  differently.  We 
have  acquired  a  little  more  common 
sense;  we  are  not  making  the  fools  of 
ourselves  we  did  then,  and  after  a  while 
v\e  teachers  will  see  the  results  of  our 
labors  and  feel  satisfied. 

A  Religion  class  teacher  came  to  me 
one  day.   She  said  she  could  not  see  any 


84 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


results  from  her  work.  I  said  to  her, 
"You  do  not  want  to  be  always  going 
around  looking  for  results.  When  you 
do  good  you  should  go  away  back  into 
the  shade  and  lie  down,  and  tell  no  one 
about  it.  All  you  have  to  do  is  to  sow 
the  seeds;  God  will  take  care  of  the 
crop."  That  day  in  the  testimony  ex- 
ercise, after  the  teacher  had  borne  her 
testimony,  she  said,  "Do  any  of  you 
little  children  feel  like  thanking  God  for 
the  good  things  He  gives  you,  or  like 
bearing  your  testimony?"  One  little  girl 
arose  and  said,  "I  want  to  say  some- 
thing." Let  me  say,  before  I  tell  you 
what  she  said,  that  the  teacher  had 
been  teaching  a  memory  gem — "Honor 
thy  father  and  thy  mother,  that  thy 
days  may  be  long  in  the  land  which 
the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee."  The  lit- 
tle child  continued,  "Last  Wednesday 
afternoon,  when  I  went  home  from  the. 
Religion  class,  my  mama  said  to  me, 
'Will  you  go  down  to  the  store  for  me?' 
I  said  'No,  mama,  I  don't  want  to  go 
to  the  store,'  and  mama  said,  'Then  I 
will  go  myself.  Will  you  go  down  and 
feed  the  chickens  for  me?'  I  said.  'Yes, 
I  will  go  down  and  feed  the  chickens. 
As  I  was  on  my  way  something  said 
to  me  'You  are  not  honoring  and  obey- 
ing your  parents,'  so  I  came  back  and 
said,  'Mama,  I  will  go  to  the  store 
for  you.'  Then  she  put  her  arms  around 
my  neck  and  kissed  me,  and  after  that 
I  felt  better." 

I  said  to  the  teacher  at  the  close  of 
the  session,  '-'What  better  results  do 
you  wish  to  see  than  that?  You  have 
taught  these  children  a  little  memory 
gem  for  three  weeks,  and  today  you 
have  seen  it  bring  forth  fruit.  You 
have  taught  a  lesson  which  I  believe 
will  remain  in  that  child's  heart  as 
long  as  she  lives." 

We  are  making  great  progress  in 
Sunday  school  work,  and  there  are  none 
who  are  more  delighted  with  the  work 
that. is  being  accomplished  than  is  the 
General  Board.  We  are  growing  by 
leaps  and  bounds.  We  are  far  in  ad- 
vance of  what  we  were  a  few  years 
ago.  Some  of  us  teachers  used  to  think 
that  sufficient  for  the  day  was  the  les- 
son thereof;  but  we  know  .better  than 


that  now.  We  have  learned  that  we 
must  grow  and  grow,  and  never  cease 
to  grow,  for  when  growth  ceases,  death 
begins. 

But  are  not  some  of  us  going  just  to 
the  other  extreme?  I  believe  that  we 
are  burning  the  midnight  oil  in  making 
preparations,  and  studying  very  hard, 
and  we  are  so  concerned  about  the 
preparation  of  the  lesson,  and  the  very 
best  method  of  presenting  it  that  I  fear 
we  are  not  giving  the  proper  atten- 
tion to  the  spirit  of  the  lesson.  There  is 
such  a  thing  as  being  too  careful,  you 
know.  I  was  in  Sister  Kesler's  kinder- 
garten class  last  week,  and  one  of  the 
members  of  the  class  illustrated  how  it 
was  possible  to  be  too  careful.  She 
said  one  day  her  mother  sent  her  down 
into  the  cellar  with  a  pitcher  of  cream, 
and  said  to  her,  "Be  careful  that  you 
do  not  let  the  pitcher  fall."  She  said, 
"I  went  out  and  I  was  holding  that 
pitcher  as  tight  as  I  co-.i1^  hold  it,  and 
just  when  I  got  on  the  first  step 
of  the  cellar  stairs  I  let  the  pitcher 
fair,  and  it  broke  into  a  dozen  pieces. 
I  was  so  concerned  about  the  pitcher, 
and  so  careful  that  it  shouldn't  fall, 
that  I  actually  let  it  fall."  I  believe 
there  are  a  few  teachers  who  are  so 
much  interested  in  the  preparation  of 
the  lesson,  in  the  method  of  presenting 
it,  that  they  are  losing  sight  of  the 
spirit  of  it.  I  visited  a  Sunday  school 
recently,  and  listened  to  some  very 
good  lessons,  but  there  did  not  seem 
to  be  a  soul  in  them.  They  were  a  com- 
pilation of  cold,  dry  facts,  and  failed 
to  touch  the  souls  of  the  pupils.  I 
believe  that  if  our  lessons  are  to  accom- 
plish the  good  we  want  them  to  accom- 
plish they  must  touch  the  heart;  the 
lesson  that  fails  to  in  this  has  not  ac- 
complished its  mission.  I  am  afraid 
some  Sunday  school  teachers  do  not 
let  the  lessons  go  through  their  own 

hearts.  Every  teacher  shoulld  say, 
when  he  takes  up  a  lesson:  "What  is 
there  in  this  lesson  for  me?  What  is 
there  in  it  that  I  can  apply  to  myself, 
and  make  part  of  myself  before  at- 
tempting to  present  it  to  my  class?" 
Our  lessons  ought  to  go  through  our 
own  selves  to  our  pupils.   What  I  think 


v 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


85 


is  needed  is  the  spirit  of  Sunday  school 
work,  the  soul  of  the  work. 

I  was  away  from  Zion  some  time  ago, 
in  a  large  city.  It  was  Sunday  morn- 
'^ing.  There  were  no  Saints  there,  but 
I  decided  that  I  would  go  and  worship 
somewhere,  and  I  went  to  a  Christian 
church.  I  listened  to  a  minister  who 
said  many  good  things,  and  I  accepted 
the  good  things  which  he  said  and  let 
the  others  go.  He  said,  "Some  time  ago 
a  young  man  arrived  at  a  port  in  Am- 
erica. When  he  landed  an  officer  went 
up  to  him  and  said,  'How  much  money 
have  you  got!'  T  haven't  got  a  dollar 
in  the  world'  was  the  reply.  'Where  are 
you  going  to?'  asked  the  officer.  'I  am 
going  to  Fall  River,'  he  answered. 
'Have  you  got  any  relatives  here?'  was 
the  next  question.  'No,'  was  the  reply; 
'but  I  have  some  in  Fall  River.'  'You 
must  go  back,'  said  the  officer.  'Why?' 
asked  the  young  man.  'Because  you  are 
without  money  and  relatives  here,  and 
you  are  liable  to  become  a  public 
charge.'  The  young  man  looked  at  him 
and  said,  'I  will  not  become  a  public 
charge.  Give  me  a  chance  and  I  will 
get  down  to  Fall  River  all  right.' 
'How?'  asked  the  officer.  'By  this,'  said 
the  young  man,  as  he  tapped  a  little 
bag  under  his  arm.  'What  have  you 
got  there?'  the  officer  questioned. 
Opening  the  bag,  the  young  man  drew 
out  a  beautiful  cornet,  and  putting  it 
to  his  lips  he  played  a  tune  of  one 
of  the  grand  old  masters,  a  tune  that, 
brought  tears  to  the  eyes  of  all  who 
heard  it.  When  he  had  finished,  the  of- 
ficer said  to  the  captain  of  the  vessel, 
'Take  this  man  down  to  Fall  River  at 
my  expense.'  'No,'  said  the  captain, 
'he  shall  go  to  Fall  River  at  my  ex- 
pense; I  need  just  such  a  man  on 
board,'  and  that  young  man  went  to 
Fall  River  because  he  put  his  soul  into 
his  instrument."  I  want  to  say  teach- 
ers, that  if  we  expect  to  make  a  success 
of  our  Sunday  school  work  we  must  put 
nur  souls  into  it. 

One  time  a  young  artist  painted  a 
picture  and  took  it  to  a  critic  for  his 
inspection.  The  older  artist  inspected 
it,  and  then  took  up  his  brush  and 
gave  it  a  daub.    The  young  man  stared 


at  him  in  astonishment  and  said,  "Why 
did  you  do  that?"  "Your  picture  lacks 
one  thing,"  said  the  artist.  "And  what 
does  it  lack,"  inquired  the  youth.  "The 
touch  of  a  master  hand,"  was  the  re- 
ply. And  that  is  just  what  your  les- 
sons sometimes  lack,  the  touch  of  the 
Master's  hand. 

God,  in  the  beginning,  decreed  that 
man  should  eat  his  bread  by  the  sweat 
of  his  brow.  That  was  not  a  curse,  it 
was  one  of  the  greatest  blessings  that 
God  ever  gave  to  man.  And  if  God  will 
not  give  bread  to  the  man  who  spends 
his  days  in  idleness,  neither  will  He  put 
words  of  wisdom  and  inspiration  into 
the  mouth  of  a  mental  drone.  In  sit- 
ting down  to  prepare  our  lessons  we 
should  invoke  His  divine  assistance  and 
then  when  we  have  finished  we  should 
go  to  Him  and  say,  "Father,  I  have 
done  what  I  could;  now  fill  my  soul 
with  Your  Spirit;  inspire  me  for  my 
work,  give  this  picture  the  touch  of 
Thy  master  hand."And  he  will  do  it. 
He  will  help  us  every  time. 

Before  taking  my  seat  I  wish  to  refer 
to  a  statement  that  was  made  in  a 
Methodist  convention  held  last  week. 
I  have  traveled  quite  extensively  ovei 
this  country,  and  have  associated  ft 
great  deal  with  the  young  people  of 
Zion,  and  I  can  say  truthfully  that 
there  is  no  people  in  God's  great  world 
today  who  love  their  religion  as  the 
young  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
do.  We  have  one  hundred  and  thirty 
thousand  members  enrolled  in  our 
Sunday  Schools,  and  we  have  not  had 
to  use  "trading  stamps"  to  get  them 
there  either.  Brother  Summerhays  has 
an  extract  from  a  newspaper  in  his 
pocket  which  shows  that  some  of  the 
sectarian  schools  of  the  country  have 
had  to  resort  to  the  trading  stamp  sys- 
tem in  order  to  get  their  young  people 
to  attend  Sunday  schools.  We  haven't 
got  down  as  low  as  that  yet.  We  never 
shall. 

We  are  not  ashamed  of  the  Gospel, 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  nor  of 
jf  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  nor  of 
<;he  glorious  principles  which  he  taught 
us,  but  I  will  tell  you  of  whom  we  are 
ashamed.       We      are      ashamed  of 


86 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


men  and  women  who  claim  to  be  fol- 
lowers of  the  meek  and  lowly  Jesus, 
and  at  the  same  time  go  about 
speaking  evil  of  their  neighbors, 
and  seeking  to  do  them  all  the  injury 
they  can.  That  is  what  we  are  ashamed 
of.  We  are  ashamed  to  see  men  who 
style  themselves  ministers  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  assemble  in  conventions 
and  pass  resolutions  aiming  at  the  per- 
secution, the  oppression,  the  annihila- 
tion of  a  little  band  of  religious  wor- 
shipers in  their  own  land.  A  short 
time  ago  the  ministers  of  the  country 
shed  crocodile  tears  because  of  the  per- 
secutions of  the  Jews  by  the  Russians. 
They  also  passed  resolutions  condemn- 
ing the  latter  for  their  treatment  of  the 
poor  Hebrews.  You  remember  th.it 
some  of  the  nations  were  appealed  to 
to  arise  and  show  their  disapproval  of 
the  treatment  accorded  the  Jews  by  th^ 
Russians,  and  now  we  find  some  of 
these  ministers  who  were  so  strong  in 
their  denunciation  of  the  Russians  for 
persecuting  the  Jews,  assemble  in  con- 
vention and  pass  resolutions  by  which 
they  seek  to  persecute  and  overthrow 
a  little  band  of  religious  worshipers 
out  here  in  the  desert.  Think  of  it! 
That  is  what  we  are  ashamed  of,  of 
such  inconsistency.  Sometimes  I  im- 
agine I  can  see  the  devil,  lying  back  in 
his  easy  chair  and  laughing  at  the  in- 
consistency of  these  theological  hypo- 
crites. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  the  youth  of 
Zion;  to  bless  the  boys  and  girls  of  the 
new  and  everlasting  covenant.  We 
have  been  called  to  teach  these  chil- 
dren; let  us  labor  for  their  salvation. 
These  little  boys  and  girls  in  the  kin- 
dergarten classes,  these  little  boys  and 
girls  in  the  primary  classes,  will  not 
be  little  boys  and  girls  always...  After 
a  while  they  will  be  grown-ups,  and 
will  become  great  and  good  men  and 
women.  We  shall  see  them  bearing  off 
the  kingdom  of  God.  I  can  see  them, 
when  you  and  I  are  laid  away  on  the 
hillside,  rising  up  and  doing  a  thous- 
and times  better  work  than  you  and  I 
;n-e  doing  today.  We  are  teaching 
Apostles  and  Prophets  of  the  Most 
High  God.    We  do  not  know  now  who 


these  little  ones  are.  but  God  knows 
them,  and  the  day  will  come  when  they 
will  rise  up  and  bless  us,  if  we  but  do 
our  duty  to  them  and  teach  them  to 
live  pure  and  holy  lives. 

May  God  bless  this  great  wor*".  fcnd* 
may  we  labor  with  our  who'.e  might, 
mind  and  strength  for  the  unbuilding 
of  the  kingdom  of  God.  And,  Anally, 
may  we  be  redeemed,  saved  and  exalt- 
ed with  the  sanctified  in  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  our  Father,  is  my  humble 
prayer  for  us  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  SUMMERHAYS. 

I  am  requested  to  say  a  few  words 
in  regard  to  the  conventions  which  we 
have  held  during  the  past  season,  and 
what  we  intend  to  do  during  the  year 
1905.  I  wish  to  say  to  our  brethren 
and  sisters  from  the  far  south,  that  we 
have  not  forgotten  them.  We  have  held 
conventions  all  through  the  north,  ex- 
cept in  the  Union  and  Cassia  stakes, 
and  those  two  will  have  our  immediate 
attention.  We  ai'e  also  making  prepar- 
ation to  visit  the  stakes  in  Arizona. 
Colorado  and  Old  Mexico,  and  we  ex- 
pect to  do  something  for  San  Juan,  but 
we  hardly  think  it  will  be  a  conven- 
tion. 

At  our  conventions  we  have  asked  the 
sisters  to  take  off  their  hats  in  the 
general  meetings,  and  they  have  re- 
sponded as  you  have  responded  tonight. 
And  then  we  have  asked  them  to  do 
another  thing.  We  have  asked  them  to 
let  their  hats  remain  off  their  heads 
until  the  benediction  is  offez-ed,  and 
not  to  disturb  the  meeting  by  putting 
en  their  hats  and  getting  ready  to  leave 
the  house  before  the  services  were  clos- 
ed. So  far  we  have  met  with  success 
and  we  would  like  you  to  do  the  same 
tonight. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  the 
house  of  God,  where  we  come  to  listen 
to  the  servants  of  God.  and  it  is  be- 
coming in  us  that  we  remain  with  due 
decorum  until  the  benediction  is  offer- 
ed. 

On  last  Thursday  evening  we  held  a 
meeting  at  the  P»arratt  hall,  and  it  was 
decided  by  the  superintendents  of  the 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


ST 


stakes  there  assembled  that  we  would 
continue  our  conventions  during  the 
coming  year.  We  may  have  to  group 
the  stakes  a  little  differently  from 
what  we  grouped  them  du\i'ing  the 
present  season,  but  we  expect  that  the 
conventions  next  season  will  be  all 
that  they  have  been  this  season,  and  as 
much  better  as  we  can  possibly  make 
them. 

Another  point  that  I  am  requested  to 
speak  upon,  and  that  is  this,  that  the 
superintendents  of  stakes  and  the  su- 
pei  intendents  of  wards  will  note,  that 
when  their  reports  come  to  them  this 
season,  there  is  a  change  in  some  of  the 
questions.  We  have  been  asking,  if  you 
remember,  "What  is  your  enrollment," 
and  "What  is  your  average  attend- 
ance," and  then  we  have  asked  for  one 
hundred  per  cent  on  nickel  fund  ac- 
count. The  result  of  this  has  been 
that  some  superintendents  have  taken 
from  the  roll  every  name  they  could,  to 
show — first,  a  high  average  attendance, 
and  secondly  to  more  easily  pay  their 
one  hundred  per  cent  nickel  fund;  and 
a  good  many  children  between  the  ages 
of  four  and  twenty  have  found  their 
names  taken  from  the  roll,  and  they 
haven't  gone  back  to  school.  We  esti- 
mated the  other  day,  just  how  many  of 
this  class  of  people  were  out  of  the 
Sabbath  school,  and  we  were  of  the 
opinion  that  there  were  some  three 
thousand,  eight  hundred,  with  two  hun- 
dred and  fifty-six  schools  to  hear  from. 
This  is  wrong.  So  far  as  I  am  person- 
ally concerned,  if  I  have  got  a  boy  that 
is  not  true  to  his  trust,  I  would  rather 
that  that  boy  should  come  to  the  Sun- 
day School  but  once  a  year  than  not  to 
come  at  all.  We  are  not  so  much  after 
the  average  attendance  or  the  nickels 
as  we  are  after  the  salvation  of  the 
souls  of  those  children.  We  want  to 
get  them  into  the  Sunday  School. 
Therefore,  when  you  get  your  next  re- 
port blanks,  you  will  find  this  question: 
"How  many  persons  have  you  iji  your 
ward  between  the  ages  of  folic  and 
twenty  years,  inclusive?"  also,  "How 
many  of  these  are  there  enrolled  in 
your  Sunday  School?"  We  ask  these 
two  questions,  and,  later  on,  my  breth- 


ren, between  now  and  the  first  of  the 
year,  we  will  tell  you  what  we  want 
you  to  do  with  this  class  of  citizens. 

The  majority  of  the  members  of  the 
General  Board  have  been  through  the 
stakes  this  season  to  these  different 
conventions.  I  myself  have  attended 
all  of  them  but  two,  and  I  know  tha  t 
the  Sunday  school  cause  is  thriving, 
and  I  know  that  the  great  Latter-day 
work  is  growing.  We  recognize  that 
Zion  is  growing,  and  1  believe  that  ev- 
ery department  is  growing.  I  want  to 
say  to  you  Sunday  school  people,  while 
you  are  attending  to  this  organization, 
do  not  forget  the  other  organizations  of 
the  Church — the  Mutual  Improvement, 
the  Religion  Classes  and  all.  We  want 
you  to  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God 
in  its  entirety,  that  it  may  be  beauti- 
ful to  look  upon  when  we  present  it  to 
the  Master.  May  God  help  us  to  do 
it,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  do  not  desire  to  occupy  very  much 
time.  I  am  delighted  always  to  have 
the  privilege  of  meeting  with  that  class 
of  our  people  who  are  so  deeply  inter- 
ested in  teaching  the  children  and  in 
taking  part  in  the  work  of  the  Sabbath 
Schools,  and  I  sincerely  hope  that  we 
shall  succeed  in  impressing  upon 
the  minds  of  the  rising  gener- 
ation a  sincere  regard,  not  only 
for  themselves,  to  keep  themselves 
pure  and  unspotted  from  the  world, 
but  a  sincere  regard  for  the  rights  and 
privileges  of  others.  Our  children 
should  be  taught  to  respect  not  only 
their  fathers  and  their*  mothers,  and 
their  brothers  and  sisters,  but  they 
should  be  taught  to  respect  all  man- 
kind, and  especially  should  they  be  in- 
structed and  taught  and  brought  up  to 
honor  the  aged  and  the  infirm,  the  un- 
fortunate and  the  pooi\  the  needy  and 
those  who  need  the  sympathies  of 
mankind. 

We  too  frequently  see  a  disposition 
on  the  part  of  our  children  to  make 
fun  of  the  unfortunate.  A  poor  cripple, 
or  a  poor,  weak-minded  person  comes 


ss 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL,  UNION. 


along,  and  the  boys  will  poke  fun  at 
him.  arid  make  unbecoming  remarks 
about  him.  This  is  entirely  wrong-, 
and  such  a  spirit  as  this  should  never 
be  witnessed  among-  the  children  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  They  ought  to 
be  taught  better  at  home.  They  should 
be  thoroughly  taught  better  than  this 
in  our  Sunday  schools,  and  in  all  the 
schools,  as  far  as  that  is  concerned, 
that  our  children  attend.  Our  children 
should  be  taught  to  venerate  that 
which  is  holy,  that  which  is  sacred. 
They  should  venerate  the  name  of 
God.  They  should  hold  in  sacred  ven- 
eration the  name  of  the  Son  of  God. 
They  should  not  take  Their  holy  nan.e^ 
in  vain ;  and  they  should  also  be  taught 
to  respect  and  venerate  the  temples  of 
God.  the  places  of  worship  of  their 
fathers  and  mothers.  Our  children 
should  be  taught  also  that  they  have 
l  ights  in  the  house  of  the  Lord  equal  to 
their  parents  and  equal  to  their  neigh- 
bors or  anybody  else. 

It  always  pains  me  to  see  our  little 
ones  disturbed  in  this  right.  I  wit- 
nessed a  little  circumstance  in  our 
meeting  this  afternoon.  The  house 
was  crowded  in  every  part.  A  person 
was  standing  in  the  aisle,  and  a  little 
child  was  sitting  by  its  mother  on  a 
seat.  Somebody  came  along  and  took 
the  little  child  off  its  seat,  and  took  the 
seat  himself,  leaving  the  child  to  stand. 
I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  that  act  sent  a  pang  to  my 
heart.  I  would  not,  for  anything  in  the 
shape  of  remuneration  of  a  worldly 
character,  grieve  the  heart  of  a  little 
child  in  the  house  of  God,  lest  an  im- 
pression should  be  left  upon  its  mind 
that  would  make  the  house  of  worship 
a  distasteful  place,  and  it  would  prefer 
not  to  come  within  its  walls,  than  to 
come  and  be  offended. 

I  once  witnessed  a  circumstance  of 
the  kind  in  one  of  our  most  popular 
meetinghouses,  I  may  say.  A  little 
child  had  come  in,  in  good  season,  and 
taken  a  seat.  By  and  by  a  lady  came 
in.  The  seats  seemed  to  be  all  occu- 
pied. She  took  the  child  by  the  arm, 
jerked  it  off  the  seat,  and  sat  down  up- 


on it  herself,  leaving  the  child  to  stand. 
I  had  all  I  could  do  to  hold  my  tongue 
i.itu  niy  temper  when  I  witnessed  the 
circumstance.    1  had    half  a    mind  to 
get  up  and  ask  that  lady  to  get  up  off 
that  seat  and  let  that  child  sit  there.  It 
had  more  right  to  sit  there  than  she 
had,  for  it  came  and  had  it  first,  and 
was  in  the  house  of  the  Lord.  The 
child  was  made  to  feel  that  it  had  no 
light  there.    It  A\as  made  to  feel  that 
that  person  that  came  in  later  had  a 
better  claim  to  the  seat  than  the  child 
itP'-lf.     That   is  wrong.     Our  children 
have  just  as  much  right  to  come  into 
the  house  of  God  as  an  v.  person  has. 
and  we  should    respect    them    in  that 
right  ourselves,  and  in  turn  the  chil- 
dren will  respect  us.     But  when  we 
cease  to  respect    the    lights   of  little 
children,  it  is  a  lesson  to  them  which 
we  inculcate  in  their  minds,  that  they 
are  not  bound  to  respect  us.    But  when 
we  respect  them,  treat  them  as  intelli- 
gent beings,  treat  them  as  our  suc- 
cessors in  life  and  entitled  to  respon- 
sibilities in  life,  they  will  grow  up  to 
respect  us  and  hold  us  in  reverence, 
and.  respect  our  rights  just  as  we  re- 
spect theirs. 

I  desire  that  we  will  inculcate  this 
principle  of  esteem  in  the  hearts  of 
our  children  for  their  parents,  for  their 
brothers  and  sisters,  for  their  neigh- 
bors and  their  associates,  and  especial- 
ly for  those  whom  the  Lord  has  called 
and  clothed  with  authority  to  adminis- 
ter in  the  midst  of  the  people.  I  think 
our  children  should  be  taught  these 
principles,  that  they  should  be  instilled 
into  their  hearts,  and  as  we  have  been 
hearing  tonight  from  Brother  Morton, 
it  should  be  a  part  of  their  nature  to 
love  one  another  and  respect  one  an- 
other, to  respect  that  which  is  sacred, 
that  which  has  been  consecrated  to  the 
worship  of  the  Lord  or  to  sacred  pur- 
poses. 

Our  children  should  be  made  and 
taught  to  respect  these  things  in  the 
Sunday  schools.  There  is  where  you 
can  teach  them,  and  in  our  religion 
class  work  they  can  be  taught  these 
principles,  more  especially  in  these  or- 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


89 


ganizations;  and  also  in  the  primary 
associations,  better  perhaps  than  they 
can  be  anywhere  else,  because  they 
are  taken  in  these  associations  at  the 
ages  when  they  are  most  impression- 
able, and  when  these  things  can  be 
made  permanent  in  their  minds.  The 
things  that  are  impressed  upon  the 
minds  of  children  take  stronger  hold 
than  in  after  or  later  life. 

Well  now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
let  us  respect  one  another.  Let  us  re- 
spect that  which  is  sacred.  Let  us 
honor  the  name  of  the  Father  and  of 
the  Son.  Let  us  speak  kindly  of  one 
another.  Speak  no  ill  of  any  man,  no 
matter  if  such  men  are  not  what  they 
should  be;  it  does  no  good  for  us  to 
promulgate  and  publish  abroad  and 
keep  alive  in  our  memories  or  in  the 
memories  of  others  the  imperfections, 
the  sins  and  the  wrong  doings  of  oth- 
ers. We  had  better  strive  to  amend 
and  improve  that  which  is  not  good. 
Always  seek  that  which  is  better,  and 
that  which  will  purify  the  heart  and 
ennoble  the  mind,  and  that  will  lead 
men  to  higher  thoughts,  higher  aspira- 
tions and  better  and  purer  work  in  the 


world,  that  they  may  become  more  and 
more  like  the  Son  of  God. 

May  the  Lord  bless  -all  those  who 
work  in  the  SundaTT  schools,  and  help 
them  in  the  performance  of  their  du- 
ties, and  bless  the  children  of  Zion, 
that  what  has  been  said  tonight,  and 
what  was  said  today,  may  indeed  be 
true  of  them,  that  they  are  not  ashamed 
of  their  parents,  that  they  are  not 
ashamed  of  their  religion,  that  they  are 
not  ashamed  of  the  work  their  parents 
have  done  in  the  land,  but  that  they 
are  proud  of  these  things,  and  that 
they  venerate  their  parents  because  of 
their  fidelity,  and  because  they  have 
been  firm  and  true  and  steadfast  in  the 
midst  of  persecutions  and  in  the  midst 
of  hatred  that  has  been  made  manifest 
against  them  by  the  world. 

God  bless  you,  and  bless  our  chil- 
dren, and  all  Israel,  is  my  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Lift  up 
the  voice  in  singing." 

Benediction  by  President  Francis  M. 
Lyman.  GEO.  D.  PYPER, 

Secretary. 

F.  E.  BARKER,  Stenograpner. 


«:-:~:~:~x«>*<"M^H"X":~^^^ 


I    DBSERET  NEWS 


„  Book  Stork  I 

        ♦!♦ 

— ■— —— ^— ■— — a— — 

❖  — — — — — ^— ^—   r 

.*.  ♦> 

y  t 

T  t 

Y  V 

f  Y 

t  £ 

|       Sfafe  'Depository  for  School  TSooks.  | 

♦{>  School  Stationery,  Supplies.  Kindergarten  j> 

X  and  Busy  Work  Materials.    Largest  $ 

X  Stock  in  the  State.    Lowest  X 

•|  wholesale  prices.  Send  Y, 

for  Price  Lists.  4> 


Deseret  News  Building,  | 

6  MAIN  STREET,     -     SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH,  f 

y  x 

Y  X 

t  T 

t  t 

^<mX~X"X~X"X~X~X"X"X«X~X~X«*X'*X~X~X^^^ 


1 


t 


HISTORY  OF  CHURCH 
VOL  II  NOW  READY 

PROCURE  THEM  AS  THEY  ARE  ISSUED. 


The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
written  by  himself,  with  introduction  and  notes 
by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Low  prices  have  been  fixed  by  the 
First  Presidency,  that  the  work  may  secure 
the  widest  possible  circulation. 

Cloth  Embossed,        -         $1.50  Post  Paid 

Half  Morocco,  Gilt  Top,  -     2.50  " 
Ha  f  Calf,  Gilt  Top,     -        -  2.50 
Full  Morocco  Gilt,        -  400 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School, 
Quorum  and  Private  Library  should  have  it. 


DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE 

6  MAIN  STREET,        -        SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 
iHHIIIHMIIU  »-M.44-M.>.»4>  t  »  M  M  M  »  t  t  M  t  M  t  t  »  M  M  M  t  t  t  T 


