OnsL  diutuihatL  Jtvswiy-Mcottd. 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

conf ERtncE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OdtohsUL  5,  6  and  7, 
1951 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 


Life  of  a  Great  Leader  $2.50 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

Presidents  of  the  Church   $4.00 

Preston  Nibley 
New  revised  edition  including  biographical  sketch  of 
President  David  O.  McKay 

Exodus  to  Greatness  $3.00 

Preston  Nibley 

Brigham  Young,  the  Man  and  His  Work  $3.00 

Preston  Nibley 

James  H.  Moyle  $3.50 

Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

A  Marvelous  Work  and  a  Wonder  $1 .75 

LeGrand  Richards 

Sermons  and  Missionary  Services  of 

Melvin  J.  Ballard   $2.75 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

Prophecy  and  Modern  Times   $1.75 

W.  Cleon  Skousen 

Constancy  Amid  Change  $2.00 

Albert  E.  Bowen 

Outlines  of  Ecclesiastical  History  $2.25 

B.  H.  Roberts 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 
44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-second  Semi-annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Twenty-second  Semi-Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday, 
October  5,  6,  7,  1951. 

General  sessions  of  the  conference  were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and 
2:00  p.m.,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  and  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  evening,  Octo- 
ber 6,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  sessions  were  broadcast  over 
Station  KSL,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over  the  following 
stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  KBUH  at  Brigham  City,  and  KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at 
Pocatello,  KBIO  at  Burley,  KVMV  at  Twin  Falls,  and  KRXK  at 
Rexburg. 

In  Colorado:  KEXO  at  Grand  Junction. 
In  Arizona:  KTYL  at  Mesa. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  sessions  were  also  televised 
over  KSL  television  station,  channel  5. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference  and  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  just  south  of  the 
Tabernacle,  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  and  in  Barratt  Hall  (60 
North  Main  Street)  over  a  loud-speaking  system  and  by  television. 
In  addition,  many  who  could  not  find  accommodation  in  these  build- 
ings assembled  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  and  listened  to  the 
services  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle,  by  means  of 
amplifying  equipment. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was  present  and  conducted  the 
services  at  each  of  the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  including  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting. 

This  report  of  the  Conference  also  includes  a  full  report  of 
Columbia  Broadcasting  Company's  Church  of  the  Air,  Sunday  morn- 
ing, October  7,  from  8:00  to  8:30,  and  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  Broadcast  from  9:00  to  9:30. 

General  Authorities  of  The  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency.  David  O.  McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards, 
and  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:    Joseph  Fielding 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Smith,  *,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E.  Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark  E.  Petersen,  Matthew 
Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  Leon  Stapley,  and  Marion  G. 
Romney.** 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G.  Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Thomas  E. 
McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,  Alma  Sonne,  George  Q.  Morris,  Stayner 
Richards,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  and  John  Longden.  *** 

The  First  Council  o[  the  Seventy:  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine 
R.  Ivins,  Richard  L.  Evans,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  S.  Dilworth  Young, 
Milton  R.  Hunter,  and  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  and  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 

General  Officers  and  Other  Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and 
A.  William  Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  General  Welfare  Committee,  Church  Welfare 
Program. 

Members  of  General  Board  of  Education,  Commissioner  of  Edu- 
cation, Seminary  Supervisors,  and  Directors  and  Associate  Directors 
of  Institutes. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counselors,  Bishops  of  Wards 
and  their  Counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs,  High 
Priests,  Seventies,  Elders;  General,  Stake  and  Ward  officers  of 
Auxiliary  Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

*John  A.  Widtsoe  was  in  Canada,  on  a  special  assignment  for  the  Canadian 
government. 

**  Marion  G.  Romney  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 
***Elders  George  Q.  Morris,  Stayner  Richards,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  and  John 
Longden  were  sustained  as  Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


FIRST  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

The  Conference  opened  Friday  morning,  October  5,  at  10 
o'clock.  President  David  O.  McKay  presided  and  conducted  the 
services  of  the  first  session.  The  building  was  crowded  to  capacity, 
the  Assembly  Hall  to  the  south,  on  the  Temple  grounds,  was  filled 
with  people,  as  was  also  Barratt  Hall  (60  North  Main  Street). 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-Second 
Semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

All  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  are  in  attendance 
excepting  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
who  has  accepted  an  invitation  of  the  Canadian  government  for 
consultation  on  problems  pertaining  to  irrigation. 

Joseph  Anderson  is  the  clerk  of  the  conference. 

These  services  and  all  other  general  sessions  will  be  broadcast 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  60  North  Main  Street, 
over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television. 

This  service  also,  and  all  other  general  sessions  of  the  con- 
ference, will  be  broadcast  over  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  ar- 
rangement through  KSL  over  the  following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  KBUH  at  Brigham  City,  and  KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Poca- 
tello,  KBIO  at  Burley,  KVMV  at  Twin  Falls,  and  KRXK  at  Rex- 
burg. 

In  Colorado:  KEXO  at  Grand  Junction. 
In  Arizona:  KTYL  at  Mesa. 

We  express  appreciation  to  the  stations  named  for  their  co- 
operating in  broadcasting  the  proceedings  of  this  conference.  We 
thank  them  for  their  services,  which  we  are  pleased  to  announce 
will  continue  throughout  this  conference.  In  the  interest,  however, 
of  time,  we  shall  not  repeat  this  announcement  at  every  session. 

All  general  sessions  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  tele- 
vision station,  channel  5. 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  session  will  be  furnished  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  with  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen 
conducting,  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  singing:  "If  With  All  Your  Hearts." 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  5  First  Dag 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Frank  B.  Wood- 
bury, Patriarch  to  the  Salt  Lake  Stake. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  (Sister  Florence  Jepper- 
son  Madsen  conducting  and  Brother  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ ) 
sang  "If  With  All  Your  Hearts." 

Elder  Frank  W.  Woodbury,  Patriarch  to  the  Salt  Lake  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

Selection  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  "If  Ye  Love 
Me,  Keep  My  Commandments." 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  behalf  of  the  General  Authorities 
and  in  humility  I  bid  you  welcome,  you  who  are  here  assembled  in 
such  large  numbers,  filling  this  historic  Tabernacle  to  capacity,  and 
also  the  tens  of  thousands  who  are  listening  in  by  radio  and  tele- 
vision. I  pray  for  your  help  and  assistance,  and  especially  for  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord,  that  we  may  sense  his  presence,  and  that 
everyone  who  is  called  upon  to  take  any  part  in  this  conference  may 
be  guided  by  his  inspiring  influence. 

It  is  with  mingled  feelings  of  joy  and  satisfaction,  encourage- 
ment, anxiety,  and  apprehension,  that  I  stand  before  you  this  morn- 
ing. 

Growth  and  Progress  of  Church 

I  rejoice  in  the  continued  growth  and  progress  of  the  Church. 
It  is  a  great  source  of  satisfaction  to  the  General  Authorities,  and  I 
am  sure  it  will  be  to  you,  to  know  that  from  all  parts  of  the  world 
where  the  gospel  is  being  preached,  reports  show  substantial  ad- 
vancement in  nearly  every  line  of  endeavor.  The  stakes  and  wards 
are  growing  in  number,  as  also  are  the  organized  branches  in  the 
missions — in  the  Americas,  Europe,  and  in  the  islands  of  the  Pacific. 

There  are  more  houses  of  worship  in  the  Church  today  than 
ever  before  in  its  history,  and  at  the  present  time  there  are  420  build- 
ings under  construction.  Temple  ordinances  performed  since  January 
1,  1951  to  August  31,  1951  exceed  those  for  the  corresponding  period 
last  year  in  all  temples  excepting  one,  and  there  is  a  slight  decrease 
there,  but  the  decrease  is  explainable.  That  is  in  Hawaii. 

Notwithstanding  this  great  building  program  and  the  other  work 
being  carried  on  in  which  ward  members  contribute  fifty  percent  and 
missions  and  branches  twenty  and  thirty  percent  of  the  cost  of  con- 
struction, tithes  and  offerings  are  steadily  and  consistently  increasing. 

Uprightness  of  Servicemen 

Because  of  the  call  to  military  duty  the  number  of  missionaries 
in  the  field  is  not  so  large  as  one  year  ago.  The  missionaries  are  re- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


5 


turning  and  reporting  for  military  duty  by  the  scores  every  month. 
Reports  of  uprightness  in  the  lives  of  these  returned  missionaries 
indicate  that  by  example  they  will  still  continue  to  be  good  mission- 
aries while  serving  their  country. 

I  think  I  shall  take  time  to  give  you  just  an  extract  from  one  of 
these  reports.  A  letter  dated  September  4,  1951  from  a  major  says 
this: 

"This  is  quite  a  group  we  have.  With  the  exception  of  two 
fellows  it  is  made  up  entirely  of  returned  missionaries.  This  morning 
we  all  ate  together  in  the  enlisted  men's  mess  hall,  and  not  a  single 
one  of  them  had  coffee,  even  though  boiling  pitchers  full  were  set  at 
each  table.  I  noticed  a  peculiar  look  on  the  mess  sergeant's  face  as 
he  scratched  his  head  in  bewilderment  when  thirty-two  soldiers  all 
took  milk." 

It  is  only  a  little  incident,  but  it  speaks  volumes  for  the  loyalty 
of  our  missionaries  who  are  entering  the  service  in  their  determination 
to  maintain  the  standards  of  the  Church.  God  bless  them! 

Subversive  Teachings 

All  these  and  other  favorable  incidents  and  reports  give  cause 
for  satisfaction  and  gratitude,  but  as  I  said,  there  are  other  things 
which  give  rise  to  feelings  of  apprehension.  For  example,  the  preva- 
lence of  pernicious  ideas  and  subversive  teachings  which  pervert  the 
minds  of  the  unstable  and  uninformed,  and  in  some  cases  divert  the 
youth  from  Church  standards.  In  this  regard  there  is  reason  for 
concern,  too. 

The  quorums  of  the  priesthood  and  the  auxiliaries,  and  especial- 
ly the  parents,  may  not  be  doing  all  that  they  should  to  counteract 
these  poisonous  influences.  Religious  leaders,  civic  officers,  and  all 
lovers  of  law  and  order  are  today  deeply  concerned,  and  not  without 
justification,  about  the  recklessness  and  lawlessness  of  youth.  Even 
young  folk  themselves  are  deprecating  the  disobedience  of  parental 
authority  manifested  by  some  of  their  companions. 

It  is  a  dangerous  sign,  brethren,  when  home  discipline  breaks 
down,  and  the  loving  advice  of  a  wise  father  and  a  loving  mother  is 
defied.  We  are  told  by  an  elderly  American  explorer  that  among  the 
Iroquois  Indians  "the  crime  which  is  regarded  as  most  horrible,  and 
which  is  without  example,  is  that  a  son  should  be  rebellious  toward 
his  mother" — an  ideal  that  might  be  well  cherished  today  among  men 
who  esteem  themselves  high  in  the  scale  of  civilization. 

Message  to  Youth 

Our  country's  most  precious  possession  is  not  our  vast  acres  of 
range  land  supporting  flocks  and  herds;  not  productive  farms;  not  our 
forests;  not  our  mines  nor  oil  wells  producing  fabulous  wealth — our 
country's  greatest  resource  is  our  children,  our  young  men  and  women 
whose  characters  will  largely  determine  our  nation's  future.  If  it 
were  possible  for  me  this  morning  to  speak  directly  to  the  young 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


men  and  women  of  the  Church,  I  would  say  that  you  should  always 
remember  that  true  joy  of  life  is  found,  not  in  physical  indulgence 
and  excesses,  but  in  clean  living  and  high  thinking;  in  rendering  to 
others,  not  inconvenience,  injury,  or  pain,  but  encouragement,  cheer, 
and  helpfulness. 

This  is  simply  saying  to  them  that  satisfaction  in  daily  life  is 
found  in  trying  to  keep  the  simple  law,  "Do  unto  others  as  you  would 
have  others  do  unto  you."  Right  actions  toward  others  always  bring 
joy;  wrongful  deeds  result  in  pain,  and  not  infrequently,  remorse. 


Conformity  to  the  Lord's  word  or  law  will  invariably  contribute 
to  man's  happiness  and  salvation.  Those  who  do  not  what  the  Lord 
commands,  we  are  told,  will  be  subjected  to  justice  and  judgment. 
In  other  words,  there  is  eternally  operative  in  the  moral  world  a  law 
of  compensation  and  retribution — compensation  commensurate  with 
conformity  to  law;  retribution  in  actual  degree  to  the  extent  of  dis- 
obedience. 

In  this  sense  I  use  the  word  law  as  having  a  deeper  significance 
than  a  rule  or  dictum  prescribed  by  authority  for  human  actions.  It 
means,  rather,  "a  uniform  order  of  sequence"  as  operative  and  un- 
varying as  the  law  of  the  inclined  plane,  or  the  law  of  falling  bodies. 

Confirmation  of  this  may  be  found  in  the  Lord's  statement  to 
Cain,  the  first  disobedient  son  in  history.  "If  thou  doest  well,  shalt 
thou  not  be  accepted?  and  if  thou  doest  not  well,  sin  lieth  at  the 
door."  (Gen.  4:7.) 

It  is  also  stated  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  "There  is  a  law, 
irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this  world, 
upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated. 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience 
to  that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated."  (D.  &  C.  130:20-21.) 

It  is  said,  parents,  boys,  and  girls,  that  "the  soul  in  the  forma- 
tive period  of  youth,  while  it  is  yet  unspotted  from  the  world,  may 
be  likened  to  a  block  of  pure,  uncut  Parian  marble,  in  which  lie 
boundless  possibilities  of  beauty  or  of  deformity.  From  the  crude 
marble  one  will  chisel  a  form  of  exquisite  grace  and  symmetry;  an- 
other, a  misshapen  monstrosity,  each  visualizing  in  the  formless  stone 
the  conception  of  his  brain.  Thus  we  are  molded  by  our  ideals." 


Thoughts  are  the  seeds  of  acts,  and  precede  them.  Mere  com- 
pliance with  the  word  of  the  Lord,  without  a  corresponding  inward 
desire,  will  avail  but  little.  Indeed,  such  outward  actions  and  pre- 
tending phrases  may  disclose  hypocrisy,  a  sin  that  Jesus  most  ve- 
hemently condemned. 

"O  generation  of  vipers,"  he  exclaimed,  "how  can  ye,  being  evil, 
speak  good  things?"  (Matt.  12:34.)  The  Savior's  constant  desire  and 
effort  were  to  implant  in  the  mind  right  thoughts,  pure  motives,  noble 


Obedience  Brings  Blessings 


Need  for  Right  Thinking 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


7 


ideals,  knowing  full  well  that  right  words  and  actions  would  event- 
ually follow.  He  taught  what  modern  physiology  and  psychology 
confirm,  that  hate,  jealousy,  and  other  evil  passions  destroy  a  man's 
physical  vigor  and  efficiency.  "They  pervert  his  mental  perceptions 
and  render  him  incapable  of  resisting  the  temptation  to  commit  acts 
of  violence.  They  undermine  his  moral  health.  By  insidious  stages 
they  transform  the  man  who  cherishes  them  into  a  criminal." 

Example  from  Charles  Dickens 

Charles  Dickens  makes  impressive  use  of  this  fact  in  his  im- 
mortal story,  Oliver  Twist,  wherein  Monks  is  introduced  first  as  an 
innocent,  beautiful  child;  but  as  "ending  his  life  as  a  mass  of  solid 
bestiality,  a  mere  chunk  of  fleshed  iniquity.  It  was  thinking  upon 
vice  and  vulgarity,  that  transformed  the  angel's  face  into  the  coun- 
tenance of  a  demon." 

That  great  writer  says  this:  "It  is  almost  impossible  to  believe 
that  such  a  devilish  nature  as  Bill  Sikes,  depicted  in  the  same  book, 
could  be  found  in  human  form,"  but  Dickens  says:  "I  fear  there  are 
in  the  world  some  insensible  and  callous  natures  that  do  become,  at 
last,  utterly  and  irredeemably  bad.  But  whether  this  be  true  or  not, 
of  one  thing  I  am  certain — that  there  are  such  men  as  Sikes,  who, 
being  closely  followed  through  the  same  space  of  time,  and  through 
the  same  current  of  circumstances,  would  not  give  by  one  look  or 
action  for  a  moment  the  faintest  indication  of  a  better  nature. 
Whether  every  gentler  human  feeling  is  dead  within  such  bosoms, 
or  the  proper  chord  to  strike  has  rusted  and  is  hard  to  find,  I  do  not 
know,  but  the  fact  is  so,  I  am  sure." 

I  am  trying  to  emphasize  that  each  one  is  the  architect  of  his 
own  fate,  and  he  is  unfortunate,  indeed,  who  will  try  to  build  him- 
self without  the  inspiration  of  God,  without  realizing  that  he  grows 
from  within,  not  from  without. 

The  Great  Stone  Face 

I  have  mentioned  these  negative  things,  but  I  call  attention  of 
the  youth  to  the  story  of  The  Great  Stone  Face  by  Nathaniel  Haw- 
thorne. Ernest  one  day  said  to  his  mother,  as  they  sat  looking  at  an 
immense  rock  in  which  nature  had  chiseled  a  man's  face  with  noble 
features,  and  an  expression,  to  quote  Hawthorne,  "at  once  grand 
and  sweet,  as  if  it  were  the  glow  of  a  vast,  warm  heart  that  embraced 
all  mankind  in  its  affections  and  had  room  for  more — " 

"Mother,"  said  Ernest,  if  I  were  to  see  a  man  with  such  a  face, 
I  should  love  him  dearly." 

She  answered,  "If  a  prophecy  come  true,  we  may  see  him  some 
time  or  other  with  exactly  a  face  like  that." 

That  face,  as  you  know,  was  finally  depicted  in  the  countenance 
of  Ernest  himself.  Having  lived  a  life  in  which  he  had  constantly 
kept  before  himself  the  vision  splendid,  there  was  chiseled  in  his 
own  countenance  the  benign  features  of  the  great  image. 

» 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  5  First  Dag 

What  a  man  continually  thinks  about  determines  his  actions 
in  times  of  opportunity  and  stress.  A  man's  reaction  to  his  appetites 
and  impulses  when  they  are  aroused  gives  the  measure  of  that  man's 
character.  In  these  reactions  are  revealed  the  man's  power  to  govern 
or  his  forced  servility  to  yield. 

Disobedience  Brings  Retribution 

No  man  can  disobey  the  word  of  God  and  not  suffer  for  so 
doing.  No  sin,  however  secret,  can  escape  retribution.  True,  you 
may  lie  and  not  be  detected;  you  may  violate  virtue  without  its 
being  known  by  any  who  could  scandalize  you,  yet  you  cannot  escape 
the  judgment  that  follows  such  transgression.  The  lie  is  lodged  in 
the  recesses  of  your  mind,  and  impairment  of  your  character  will  be 
reflected  sometime,  somehow  in  your  countenance  or  bearing.  Your 
moral  turpitude,  though  only  you,  your  accomplice,  and  God  may 
ever  know  it,  will  some  day  canker  your  soul. 

"The  more  I  know  intimately  the  lives  of  other  men,  to  say 
nothing  of  my  own,"  said  Huxley  in  a  letter  to  Charles  Kingsley, 
"the  more  obvious  it  is  to  me  that  the  wicked  does  not  flourish  nor 
is  the  righteous  punished. 

"The  ledger  of  the  Almighty  is  strictly  kept,  and  every  one  of 
us  has  the  balance  of  his  operations  paid  over  to  him  at  the  end  of 
every  minute  of  his  existence.  The  absolute  justice  of  the  system  of 
things  is  as  clear  to  me  as  any  scientific  fact.  The  gravitation  of  sin 
to  sorrow  is  as  certain  as  that  of  the  earth  to  the  sun,  and  more  so, 
for  experimental  proof  of  the  fact  is  within  the  reach  of  us  all,  nay, 
is  before  us  all  our  lives,  if  we  had  but  the  eyes  to  see  it." 

Associate  with  that  the  saying  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  "Sin  is 
never  happiness."  (See  Alma  41 : 10.)  Man  is  endowed  with  appetites 
and  passions  for  the  preservation  of  his  life  and  the  perpetuation  of 
his  kind.  These,  when  held  under  proper  subjection,  contribute  to  his 
happiness  and  comfort;  but  when  used  for  mere  gratification,  lead 
to  misery  and  moral  degradation. 

Prostitution  of  Love 

Associated  with  these  natural  instincts,  young  folk,  is  a  sin  that 
always  seeks  seclusion.  It  is  the  prostitution  of  love,  the  noblest 
attribute  of  the  soul.  God  has  instituted  marriage  and  the  family  as 
the  proper  condition  of  expressing  in  our  lives  this  divine  virtue. 
But  sometimes  men  and  women  with  low  ideals  and  weakened  wills 
permit  their  passions,  like  unbridled  steeds,  to  dash  aside  judgment 
and  self-restraint,  and  to  cause  them  to  commit  sin  that  may  sear 
their  conscience  and  leave  in  their  hearts  an  everlasting  regret. 

In  this  day  when  modesty  is  thrust  into  the  background,  and 
chastity  is  considered  an  outmoded  virtue,  I  appeal  to  you  to  keep 
your  souls  unmarred  and  unsullied  from  this  sin,  the  consequence 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


9 


of  which  will  smite  and  haunt  you  intimately  until  your  conscience 
is  seared  and  your  character  sordid.  A  chaste,  not  a  profligate  life 
is  the  source  of  virile  manhood,  the  crown  of  beautiful  womanhood, 
the  contributing  source  of  harmony  and  happiness  in  family  life,  and 
the  source  of  strength  and  perpetuity  of  the  race. 

Remember,  too,  the  significance  of  the  Savior's  saying  that  if 
any  shall  commit  adultery  even  in  his  or  her  heart,  he  shall  not  have 
the  Spirit,  but  shall  deny  the  faith  and  shall  fear. 

Resist  evil,  and  the  tempter  will  flee  from  you.  If  you  keep  your 
character  above  reproach,  no  matter  what  others  may  think,  or  what 
charges  they  make,  you  can  hold  your  head  erect,  keep  your  heart 
light,  and  face  the  world  undauntedly  because  you,  yourself,  and 
your  God  know  that  you  have  kept  your  soul  untarnished. 

The  only  thing  which  places  man  above  the  beasts  of  the  field 
is  his  possession  of  spiritual  gifts.  Man's  earthly  existence  is  but  a 
test  as  to  whether  he  will  concentrate  his  efforts,  his  mind,  his  soul 
upon  things  which  contribute  to  the  comfort  and  gratification  of  his 
physical  instincts  and  passions,  or  whether  he  will  make  as  his  life's 
end  and  purpose  the  acquisition  of  spiritual  qualities. 

Factors  in  Influencing  Youth 

I  said  we  had  a  little  apprehension  that  quorums  and  auxiliaries 
were  not  doing  all  possible  to  guide  youth  along  these  lines.  In  the 
Church  we  have  two  great  divisions:  first,  organized  stakes,  com- 
posed of  wards  and  other  groups — quorums  and  auxiliaries;  second, 
the  missions,  divided  into  branches  in  which  are  also,  to  a  limited 
degree,  quorums  and  auxiliaries.  These  groups  should  become  greater 
factors  in  influencing  youth.  Consider  for  a  moment  what  the  quo- 
rums might  do,  if  the  presidency  of  each  quorum,  the  leaders  of  each 
group,  and  the  members  would  wield  influence  upon  their  fellows  as 
the  Lord  intends  they  should. 

The  quorum  is  an  essential  part  of  the  Lord's  plan  for  rendering 
mutual  aid.  No  other  organization  in  the  world  is  so  effectively 
organized  into  working  groups  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints;  for  example,  there  are  today  approximately 
137,000  men  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  men  inspired  with 
the  same  ideals  and  similar  hopes,  bound  by  a  solemn  duty  to  help 
one  another  to  secure  economic  as  well  as  spiritual  aid  and  comfort. 
There  are  also  approximately  57,000  men  under  twenty-one  years 
of  age,  associated  together  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  There  are 
57,000  others  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  or  a  total  of  114,000 
in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  What  a  mighty  force  for  good  these 
quorums  would  be  if  the  spiritual  welfare  of  each  member  and  his 
obligation  to  the  Church  were  considered  the  special  duty  of  each 
presiding  officer!  That  is  a  possibility  of  achievement. 

All  others  not  enrolled  in  quorums  should  be  enlisted  in  the 
auxiliaries,  and  the  whereabouts  and  attitude  toward  the  Church  of 
each  one  known  by  at  least  some  teacher  or  officer. 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

The  Home 

But  even  more  potent  in  influencing  child  life  is  the  home.  Upon 
the  parents  the  Lord  has  directly  placed  the  responsibility  of  teach- 
ing their  children.  I  wish  this  paragraph  could  be  written  and  put 
on  the  wall  of  every  home  in  the  Church: 

".  .  .  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the 
doctrine  of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  Living  God, 
and  of  baptism  and  of  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on 
of  hands,  when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the 
parents."  (D.  &  C.  68:25.) 

The  character  of  a  child  is  formed  largely  during  the  first  twelve 
years  of  his  life.  It  is  estimated  that  in  that  period  a  child  spends 
approximately  3200  hours  in  school;  416  hours  in  Sunday  School  and 
Church;  but  52,500  hours  in  the  home,  not  counting  twelve  hours  a 
day  for  sleep. 

In  other  words,  he  spends  sixteen  times  as  many  waking  hours 
in  the  home  as  in  the  school,  and  126  times  as  many  hours  in  the 
home  as  in  the  Church! 

Thus,  "In  the  homes  of  America  are  born  the  children  of 
America,  and  from  them  go  out  into  American  life  American  men 
and  women.  They  go  out  with  the  stamp  of  these  homes  upon  them, 
and  only  as  these  homes  are  what  they  should  be,  will  children  be 
what  they  should  be." 

I  shall  not  take  time  to  quote  all  Luther  Burbank  said  about 
the  training  of  children  as  he  trained  plants,  but  he  says  the  use 
of  an  influence  over  and  over  again  is  necessary,  keeping  ever- 
lastingly at  it.  This  is  what  fixes  traits  in  plants,  the  constant  repe- 
tition of  an  influence  until  at  last  it  is  irrevocably  fixed  and  will  not 
change.  "Parents,  you  cannot  afford,"  he  says,  "to  get  discour- 
aged. You  are  dealing  with  something  far  more  precious  than  any 
plant,  the  precious  soul  of  a  child." 

Parents  who  do  not  know  where  their  children  are  at  night 
are  recreant  to  the  sacred  obligation .  of  parenthood,  and  untrue  to 
the  high  ideals  of  the  Church  regarding  home  life. 

Do  not  say  now  in  your  minds  that  that  is  impossible.  Just  go 
back  to  your  own  homes  and  the  care  that  you  know  your  father 
and  mother  had  regarding  you. 

Undermining  Forces 

I  must  not  elaborate  upon  this  further,  but  I  wish  to  mention 
another  condition  that  gives  cause  for  concern  and  apprehension, 
and  that  is  the  insidious  influences,  as  well  as  the  blatant  heralding 
of  ideas  that  undermine  century-tried  principles  of  peace,  of  jus- 
tice, and  of  advancement  toward  the  day  of  universal  brotherhood. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


11 


We  are  grieved  when  we  see  or  hear  men  and  women,  some 
of  whom  even  profess  membership  in  the  Church,  looking  with 
favor  upon  the  pernicious  teachings  of  these  groups,  especially 
Communism.  These  credulous,  misguided  persons  claim  to  be  advo- 
cates of  peace,  and  accuse  those  who  oppose  them  as  advocates  of 
war.  They  should  remember  that  all  of  us  should  ever  keep  in  mind 
that  there  are  some  eternal  principles  more  precious  than  peace, 
dearer  than  life  itself. 

Our  revolutionary  fathers  sensed  this,  and  their  innermost 
feelings  were  expressed  in  the  words  of  Patrick  Henry:  "Is  life 
so  dear  or  peace  so  sweet  as  to  be  purchased  at  the  price  of  chains 
and  slavery?" 

Free  agency,  for  example,  is  a  divine  gift,  more  precious  than 
peace,  more  to  be  desired  even  than  life.  Any  nation,  any  organ- 
ized group  of  individuals  that  would  deprive  man  of  this  heritage 
should  be  denounced  by  all  liberty-loving  persons.  Associated  with 
this  fundamental  principle  is  the  right  of  individual  initiative,  the 
right  to  worship  how,  where,  or  what  one  pleases,  and  the  simple 
privilege  to  leave  a  country,  if  one  choose,  without  having  to  skulk 
out  as  a  culprit  at  the  risk  of  being  shot  and  killed. 

At  heart  Communism  is  atheistic,  and  Facism  is  equally  an- 
tagonistic to  freedom  and  to  other  Christian  principles — even  deny- 
ing the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  existence  of  God. 

Need  for  Integrity 

Today  there  is  a  great  need  in  the  world  for  men  of  integrity, 
men  of  honor,  men  whose  words  are  as  good  as  their  bond,  leaders 
of  nations  who  will  consider  international  agreements  sacred. 

The  philosopher  Thoreau  said,  "It  matters  not  half  so  much 
what  kind  of  ballot  you  drop  into  the  ballot  box  once  a  year,  as 
what  kind  of  man  you  drop  out  of  bed  into  the  streets  every 
morning." 

Man's  greatest  need  is  real  conversion  to  the  eternal  truths  of 
the  gospel — to  the  truth  that  Jesus  Christ  came  to  give  life  and 
light  to  the  human  family.  I  feel  that  with  all  my  soul,  and  so  do 
you  fellow-workers  who  sit  before  me. 

Recently,  a  group  of  friends  presented  one  of  their  number 
with  a  valuable,  practical  gift.  In  accepting  it,  the  man  said  that 
wherever  he  might  travel,  the  possession  of  that  gift  would  be  a 
constant  reminder  of  his  friends'  affection  and  regard. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  all  life  is  a  gift  of  God.  Appreciation  of 
that  fact  should  inspire  us  with  a  desire  to  live  daily  exemplary 
lives,  that  others,  seeing  our  good  deeds  might  be  led  to  glorify  our 
Father  in  heaven,  of  whose  existence  and  inspiration  I  testify  be- 
fore you  this  morning,  and  of  the  divinity  of  whose  Church  I  bear 
testimony,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

First  Day 

ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  join  with  you  my  brethren  and  sisters  in  expressing  to  our 
Father  in  heaven  our  thanks  and  gratitude  for  our  great  leader  and 
president  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  here  and  now.  I  hope  that  we  shall  all  have  that 
faith  in  his  admonitions  which  will  permit  us  to  go  forward  and 
enact  in  our  lives  the  teachings  which  we  thus  receive  through  the 
mouthpiece  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  here  on  this  earth. 

Divinity  of  the  Work 

I  know  that  I  speak  the  thoughts  of  all  who  are  here  assembled 
when  I  say  that  we  uphold  and  sustain  President  David  O.  McKay 
as  our  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator.  And  so  it  is  with  great  humility 
that  I  stand  here  before  you  and  in  his  presence,  in  the  presence  of 
my  brethren,  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  of  the  divinity  of  the 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  unity  which  exists  among  the  General 
Authorities  of  this  Church,  and  I  know  that  there  is,  thus,  an 
example  set  to  the  people  of  the  Church  by  which  they  could  very 
well  profit.  That  same  unity  should  extend  into  every  stake  and 
into  every  ward,  every  mission,  every  branch  of  the  Church.  I 
am  grateful  for  the  sustaining  power  and  influence  that  comes  into 
my  life  and  assists  me  in  my  work  as  a  result  of  your  faith  and 
prayers,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  am  grateful  for  the  affection, 
the  sustaining  power  and  influence,  the  faith  and  prayers  of  my 
brethren  with  whom  I  have  the  privilege  to  associate  day  by  day, 
and  acknowledge  before  you  and  my  Heavenly  Father  that  our 
ministry  would  be  empty  were  it  not  for  these  sustaining  influences. 
I  know  with  all  my  heart  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  I  want  for  nothing  but  to  dedicate  my  life,  my  energy, 
to  proclaiming  this  testimony  to  the  world,  to  let  my  fellow  men 
know  that  there  can  be  no  joy  in  life,  and  certainly  no  salvation 
hereafter,  unless  we  understand  the  laws  of  God,  given  to  us  for 
our  happiness  and  our  salvation,  and  in  turn  lend  obedience  to  them. 

Obedience  to  Law 

I  feel  to  repeat  the  revelation  given  us  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  which  President  McKay  has  already  quoted  you  this  morning, 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations 
of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated, 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to 
that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated.  (D.  &  C.  130:20-21.) 


12 

Friday.  October  5 


The  Lord  has  said, 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


13 


I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not 
what  I  say,  ye  have  no  promise.  (Ibid.,  82:10.) 

President  McKay  has  told  us  here  this  morning  the  responsibilities 
we  have  resting  upon  us  as  fathers  and  mothers  in  Israel.  I  testify 
to  you  that  if  we  do  that  which  we  have  been  commanded,  our 
children  and  our  children's  children  will  be  blessed  and  will  be  en- 
couraged to  walk  in  our  footsteps  and  will  be  crowned  eventually 
with  us  in  the  glory  of  our  Father's  kingdom. 

For  a  long  time  past  I  have  been  tremendously  impressed  with 
the  fact  that  God  is  no  respecter  of  persons,  that  his  Church  and 
kingdom  here  upon  this  earth  is  governed  and  regulated  and  con- 
trolled by  law,  and  that  that  law  is  your  law;  it  is  my  law;  and  to 
that  law  there  are  no  exceptions. 

We  have  been  told  in  the  scriptures  that, 

For  there  is  no  respect  of  persons  with  God. 

For  as  many  as  have  sinned  without  law  shall  also  perish  without 
law;  and  as  many  as  have  sinned  in  the  law  shall  be  judged  by  the  law. 
(Romans  2:11-12.) 

I  say  that  those  of  us  who  have  received  the  law  must  of 
necessity  be  judged  by  it  and  be  responsible  for  any  disobedience 
we  contribute  to  it. 

For  not  the  hearers  of  the  law  are  just  before  God,  but  the  doers 
of  the  law  shall  be  justified.  (Ibid.,  2:13.) 

That  is  the  law  of  the  gospel,  and  so,  as  we  understand  these 
simple  fundamental  laws  of  the  gospel,  we  must  live  them;  we  must 
teach  them  to  our  children;  we  must  be  bound  by  them;  and  we 
must  claim  no  exemption  for  ourselves. 

No  Special  Privileges 

Brother  Widtsoe,  who  is  absent  from  our  midst  today,  has 
recently  written,  "Full  happiness  within  the  Church  demands  that 
men  comply  with  all  its  laws,  regulations,  and  ordinances.  Obedi- 
ence is  incomplete  if  a  person  decides  to  obey  one  and  disobey 
another  gospel  requirement.  Usually,  an  attempt  to  select  some 
practices  and  ignore  others  leads  to  a  weakening  of  the  will  for 
righteousness,  and  soon  complete  disobedience  sets  in."  (Joseph 
Smith,  p.  166.)  I  am  sure  we  will  accept  that  as  true,  that  we  must 
do  nothing  which  weakens  our  will. 

I  have  a  feeling  that  sometimes  we  are  inclined  to  exempt 
ourselves  from  the  law.  We  seek  special  privileges.  I  don't  know 
whether  it  has  become  so  common  in  the  world  for  men  politically 
and  socially  to  claim  exemptions  from  the  operation  of  the  civil 
law  as  applied  to  them  that  they  think  maybe,  within  the  realm  of 
the  kingdom  and  Church  of  God  they  are  likewise  entitled  to 
special  privileges.  I  am  sure  of  one  thing,  that  President  McKay 
does  not  claim  any  special  privileges  for  himself,  and  that  the 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Dag 

General  Authorities  follow  his  example,  and  we  know  and  we 
believe  that  we  are  bound  by  the  law. 

Strict  Conformity 

I  believe  it  is  time  when  many  of  us  should  feel  that  it  is  im- 
portant to  hew  strictly  to  the  line,  to  keep  our  own  houses  in  order. 
So  I  ask  you  in  light  of  these  suggestions,  should  we  insist  upon 
going  on  a  mission  or  sending  our  sons  unless  we  are  worthy? 
Can  we  meet  the  requirements  that  have  been  laid  down  for  those 
entitled  to  go?  Should  we  ever  feel  it  necessary  to  call  upon  our 
bishop  or  our  stake  president  for  a  recommend  to  go  to  the  temple 
if  we  know  that  we  have  not  first  met  the  law  in  respect  thereto 
and  have  made  ourselves  worthy  to  receive  this  special  privilege? 
Some  of  us  may  feel  that  we  can  impose  upon  the  bishop  a  little  bit, 
that  we  will  be  forgiven.  I  wonder  how  many  of  us  realize  that 
we  cannot  expect,  if  we  go  to  the  House  of  the  Lord  unworthily 
(whether  we  go  there  for  our  own  endowments  or  to  do  vicarious 
work  for  those  who  have  preceded  us),  the  same  efficacy  will  at- 
tach to  our  work  as  would  to  the  work  of  those  who  go  to  the  House 
of  the  Lord  worthily.  Let  us  think  about  that,  and  in  place  of  ask- 
ing for  a  special  privilege,  see  that  we  keep  the  laws  of  God  in  our 
own  homes  and  in  our  own  lives,  and  encourage  our  own  sons  and 
daughters  to  do  likewise  in  order  that  they  might  go  to  the  House 
of  the  Lord  worthily. 

The  same  could  be  said  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  payment 
of  tithes,  fasting.  We  have  carried  on  in  the  Church,  all  this  year, 
a  great  campaign  connected  with  the  welfare  program  of  the  Church 
to  encourage  our  people  to  fast.  I  say  to  you  today  that  there  are 
none  of  the  blessings  of  the  fast  that  can  come  to  you  and  me  unless 
we  fast.  We  must  all  fast  in  the  same  manner.  There  is  no  ex- 
ception to  the  requirement  that  we  do  fast  if  we  are  ultimately  going 
to  have  a  real  interest  in  the  kingdom  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  as 
King  Benjamin  once  said. 

In  speaking  of  charity,  Brigham  Young  and  the  Twelve  said, 
in  April,  1842,  while  building  the  temple  in  Nauvoo: 

This  is  not  all.  It  will  be  in  vain  for  us  to  build  a  place  where  the 
Son  of  Man  may  lay  his  head,  and  leave  the  cry  of  the  widow  and  the 
fatherless  unheard  by  us  ascending  up  to  the  orphan's  God  and  the 
widow's  Friend.  It  is  in  vain  we  cry  "Lord,  Lord"  and  do  not  the 
things  our  Lord  hath  commanded,  to  visit  the  widow,  the  fatherless,  the 
sick,  the  lame,  the  blind,  the  destitute,  and  minister  to  their  necessities. 
(D.  H.  C.  4:591.) 

I  call  attention  to  prayer.  Can  we  accomplish  the  purposes 
that  President  McKay  has  outlined  for  us  with  reference  to  our 
children  if  we  do  not  pray,  as  a  family,  in  the  home,  bring  into  our 
homes  and  into  the  lives  of  our  youths  thfe  spirit  as  well  as  the  power 
and  inspiration  of  prayer?   And  so  I  say  that  no  home  should  be 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


15 


surprised  if  its  children  do  not  receive  the  same  strength  and  courage 
that  other  children  reared  in  a  home  of  prayer  receive,  if  they  are 
reared  in  a  household  which  is  a  stranger  to  prayer. 

Honesty  in  Daily  Lives 

Some  of  us  claim  the  privilege  of  withholding  support  from  our 
bishop,  our  stake  president,  and  some  of  us  feel  that  for  one  reason 
or  another  it  is  not  incumbent  on  us  to  sustain  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  each  man  in  his  office  and  calling.  But 
I  say  to  you  that  we  cannot  fail  to  respond,  especially  those  of  us 
who  hold  the  priesthood  and  our  wives  and  our  families,  to  the  re- 
quirement which  God  has  written  into  his  law  in  respect  thereto 
and  receive  the  blessings  that  might  otherwise  be  ours.  In  our 
daily  lives  it  is  impossible  for  us  to  cheat  a  little  and  still  be  honest. 

The  commandment  is  to  pay  every  man  his  dues,  and  no  man  can 
get  to  heaven  who  justly  owes  his  brother  or  his  neighbor,  who  has  or 
can  get  the  means  and  will  not  pay  it;  it  is  dishonest,  and  no  dishonest 
man  can  enter  where  God  is.  (Brigham  Young  and  the  "twelve,"  April 
1842,  Ibid.,  593.) 

It  is  impossible  for  us  to  take  advantage  of  one  another  in  any 
way,  shape,  or  form  and  still  have  that  brotherly  love  which  should 
characterize  the  membership  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  We 
could  go  on  and  review  all  of  the  activities  of  life  and  come  to  the 
same  conclusion  on  each.    It  is  therefore  proper  for  us  today  to 

Bring  forth  fruits  meet  for  repentance, 

And  think  not  to  say  within  yourselves,  We  have  Abraham  to  our 
father;  for  I  say  unto  you,  that  God  is  able  of  these  stones  to  raise  up 
children  unto  Abraham.  (See  Matthew  3:8-9.) 

For  the  promise,  that  he  should  be  the  heir  of  the  world,  was  not  to 
Abraham,  or  to  his  seed,  through  the  law,  but  through  the  righteousness 
of  faith.  (Romans  4:13.) 

In  other  words,  no  matter  whether  we  today  boast  of  being  of 
the  seed  of  Abraham,  just  as  the  house  of  Israel  did  in  the  days  of 
old,  we  are  nevertheless  to  be  justified  only  by  our  obedience  to  the 
law  of  God. 

And  if  ye  call  on  the  Father,  who  without  respect  of  persons  judgeth 
according  to  every  man's  work,  pass  the  time  of  your  sojourning  here  in 
fear.  (I  Peter  1:17.) 

We  must  never  forget. 

That  which  breaketh  a  law,  and  abideth  not  by  law,  but  seeketh  to 
become  a  law  unto  itself,  and  willeth  to  abide  in  sin,  and  altogether 
abideth  in  sin,  cannot  be  sanctified  by  law,  neither  by  mercy,  justice,  nor 
judgment.  Therefore,  they  must  remain  filthy  still.  (D.  &  C.  88:35.) 

Be  not  deceived;  God  is  not  mocked:  for  whatsoever  a  man  soweth, 
that  shall  he  also  reap. 

For  he  that  soweth  to  his  flesh  shall  of  the  flesh  reap  corruption;  but 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  5  First  Dag 

he  that  soweth  to  the  Spirit  shall  of  the  Spirit  reap  life  everlasting.  (Gal- 
ations  6:7-8.) 

I  hope  and  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  shall  as  a  result 
of  this  great  conference  go  to  our  homes,  to  our  work,  to  our  wives, 
and  to  our  families,  and  realize  and  appreciate  that  we  must  teach 
the  law  as  it  has  been  revealed  to  us  in  these  latter  days  and  then 
lend  strict  obedience  to  it,  and  dedicate  our  lives  to  our  families 
and  to  our  children  that  they  might  likewise  be  obedient,  and  this 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Singing  by  the  Choir  and  congregation,  "Come,  Come,  Ye 
Saints." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  one  of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve, 
will  now  speak  to  us.  We  know  of  the  struggle  he  has  made  since 
he  lay  at  death's  door.  We  publicly  acknowledge  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  in  his  behalf.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Mark  E. 
Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

President  McKay,  Counselors,  President  Smith,  brethren  and 
sisters,  while  being  so  affectionately  helped  by  my  son  from  where 
I  was  sitting  to  where  I  am  now  standing,  a  statement  flashed 
through  my  mind  attributed  to  a  good  friend,  the  late  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  when  he  stated,  "If  you  wish  to  live  forever,  just  get  an 
incurable  disease  and  take  care  of  it."  Yes,  I  confess  that  I  am 
guilty  of  having  such  thoughts  about  others,  and  it  is  stated  that 
the  measure  ye  mete  unto  others  shall  be  meted  unto  you  again; 
so  it  is  all  right  if  some  of  you  are  thinking  that  of  me;  I  hope  that 
you  are  because  I'd  like  that  measure  that  I  have  meted  to  others 
to  be  wiped  out  or  balanced  before  I  go  to  the  other  side.  I  have 
always  had  an  idea,  a  strong  one,  that  it  would  be  much  better  for 
all  of  us  if  we  could  repent  of  all  our  sins  before  we  go  to  the  other 
side.  And  as  it  has  been  stated  this  morning  by  President  McKay, 
also  by  Brother  Moyle,  we  may  get  by  on  this  side  by  a  little  lying 
and  a  little  cheating  and  a  little  stealing,  but  we  will  have  to  meet 
it,  brothers  and  sisters,  as  sure  as  we  live.  The  Lord  is  just,  and 
these  things  will  have  to  be  paid  for  before  we  can  progress  as  we 
would  like  to  on  the  other  side. 

Power  of  Prayer 

I  am  delighted  beyond  expression  to  be  here  with  you  this 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


17 


morning,  and  I  wish  openly  to  thank  my  Father  in  heaven  for  hear- 
ing and  answering  the  prayers  that  have  so  thoughtfully  been 
offered  for  me,  and  especially  do  I  thank  you,  brethren  and  sisters, 
my  dear  friends,  for  remembering  me  in  your  prayers.  I  believe 
with  all  my  heart  in  the  power  of  prayer.  I  have  always  believed 
in  and  accepted  prayer  as  one  of  the  great  principles  governing  us 
in  our  lives,  and  I  am  thankful  that  so  many  are  now  thinking  of 
prayer.  They  are  speaking  of  it  from  the  pulpit,  in  the  press,  and 
also  over  the  radio.  Just  last  night  we  listened  to  a  play,  the  Home 
Theatre,  I  think  it  is  called,  over  the  Mutual  Broadcasting  System, 
and  the  sponsors  of  this  play  generally  make  this  very  pertinent 
statement  at  the  close:  "More  things  are  wrought  by  prayer  than 
this  world  dreams  of."  (Tennyson.)  The  other  statement,  very 
applicable  especially  to  this  day  where  divorces  are  so  prevalent: 
"The  family  that  prays  together,  stays  together." 

Prayer  in  the  Home 

I  am  sure  that  many  young  couples  who  have  started  life, 
opening  their  homes  for  themselves,  have  heard  that  statement 
and  would  like  very  much,  perhaps,  to  begin  again  by  having 
prayer  in  the  home.  I  know  the  young  wives  would  like  to  have  it, 
and  maybe  the  young  husbands,  but  some  of  them  perhaps  do  not 
know  how  to  pray.  I  know  we  had  missionaries  arrive  in  the  field 
who  didn't  know  how  to  pray.  You  could  tell  always  when  a  mis- 
sionary came  from  a  home  where  they  had  family  prayers  and  had 
had  the  opportunity  to  take  part  in  that  family  prayer.  And  to 
avoid  embarrassment  of  these  young  missionaries,  who  hadn't  had 
that  opportunity,  because  of  neglect  of  their  parents,  I  generally 
made  it  a  point  in  our  first  meeting  with  the  missionaries  to  help 
guide  them  in  knowing  how  to  pray.  I  told  them,  among  other 
things,  always  to  express  appreciation  in  their  prayers,  followed 
by  their  requests,  and  if  they  thought  of  prayers  divided  in  that 
manner,  it  would  be  of  help  to  them,  even  if  they  had  never  prayed 
before.  If  they  would  just  stand  up  and  say,  "We  thank  thee, 
Father  in  heaven,"  and  then  name  the  blessings:  for  health  and 
strength,  for  our  parents,  for  the  privilege  of  being  in  the  mission 
field,  for  the  Church,  for  our  citizenship,  then  they  could  go  on. 
If  they  would  just  express  their  appreciation  and  then  follow  it  by 
the  requests  that  they  have:  "Continue  to  bless  us,  bless  us  in  our 
family  life  that  peace  and  love  and  unity  may  continue.  Bless  our 
brother  who  is  in  the  war,"  perhaps.  Well,  if  people  would  just 
think  of  prayer  a"s  being  divided  in  that  way,  it  might  help  them. 

There  may  be  young  couples  who  are  listening  in  who  listened 
to  that  play  last  night,  and  when  it  was  stated  that  "The  family 
that  prays  together,  stays  together,"  I  am  sure  they  thought  they 
would  like  to  begin,  and  I  hope  that  they  will. 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Dag 

Expressing  Appreciation 

Expressing  appreciation:  Do  not  ever  forget  to  express  ap- 
preciation to  our  Father  in  heaven  for  the  blessings  that  we  have 
received  from  him.  There  would  be  more  love  in  the  home  if  we 
expressed  appreciation  for  our  wives,  menfolk.  We  love  them  as 
much  as  ever,  but  we  don't  tell  them.  We  used  to  take  them  flowers 
occasionally,  especially  when  we  were  courting  them,  but  I  am 
sure  there  are  men  listening  in  now  who  have  never  given  their 
wives  bouquets  of  flowers.  This  theme  was  developed  in  one  of 
our  stakes  with  scattered  wards,  some  of  them  nearly  fifty  miles 
from  where  the  conference  was  being  held,  and  the  presidency  of 
the  stake  very  wisely  organized  a  transportation  committee,  com- 
prised of  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and  adult  mem- 
bers who  have  no  priesthood,  and  even  some  non-members.  They 
took  their  appointment  seriously,  and  they  made  it  possible  for 
every  person  in  that  scattered  community,  stake,  to  be  in  conference. 
In  that  way  the  presidency,  of  course,  had  a  large  number  of  the 
adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  there. 

After  this  theme  had  been  developed,  it  was  told  that  one  of 
the  men  thought  that  the  speaker  was  speaking  directly  to  him. 
He  was  working  at  one  of  the  defense  plants  at  the  time,  making 
a  lot  of  money.  The  men  were  paid  every  two  weeks.  They  cashed 
their  checks  right  there  where  they  were  working  for  convenience. 
As  this  man  was  driving  home  one  night  after  receiving  his  two 
weeks'  pay,  making  more  in  two  weeks  than  he  usually  made  in  two 
months,  he  stopped  at  the  drugstore  and  bought  a  box  of  candy,  the 
kind  he  used  to  take  to  his  sweetheart  during  his  courting  days. 
He  saw  a  flower  shop  in  the  corner  of  the  drugstore,  and  he  thought, 
"Well,  I  believe  I  will  get  a  bouquet  of  flowers.  I  know  my  sweet- 
heart liked  dark  red  roses."  So  he  had  the  flower  girl  make  up  a 
beautiful  bouquet  of  roses. 

He  took  them  home,  gave  his  usual  three  rings  to  announce  to 
his  wife  that  he  had  arrived.  She  came  hurrying  to  the  door  as 
usual,  just  as  he  was  awkwardly  pushing  the  door  closed  with  his 
back.  He  handed  the  roses  to  his  wife  and  then  awkwardly 
pushed  the  box  of  candy  towards  her,  blushing,  I  guess.  She  looked 
at  the  flowers,  then  the  box  of  candy,  then  at  her  husband  and  said, 
"John,  let  me  smell  your  breath."  Well,  he  was  overdoing  it  a  little 
perhaps  all  at  once,  but  as  she  placed  those  flowers  in  the  vase  (one 
I  am  told  she  had  received  at  her  wedding  and  had  never  had  oc- 
casion to  use),  tears  came  into  her  eyes.  And  as  they  were  munch- 
ing over  the  candy  in  the  evening,  she  said,  "John,  .remember  this  is 
the  kind  of  candy  you  brought  me  the  first  time  you  called  to  see 
me,  and  I  was  so  embarrassed  because  father  kept  returning  for 
just  another  piece?" 

And  he  said,  "Yes,  I  do  remember,  and  how  pleased  I  was  that 
your  father  did  keep  returning.    I  was  worried  because  I  thought 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


19 


maybe  he  wouldn't  like  me,  and  I  saw  that  he  liked  my  candy  any- 
how, and  maybe  liked  me." 

Appreciation  Brings  Love 

I  want  to  tell  you  brethren  and  sisters  we  would  have  more 
love  in  our  homes  and  in  our  wards  and  in  our  stakes  if  we  just 
took  time  not  only  to  appreciate  our  wives,  but  also  to  tell  them 
that  we  love  them,  not  only  to  appreciate  what  our  bishops  are  do- 
ing for  our  boys  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  but  also  put  our  hand 
on  the  shoulder  of  the  bishop  and  tell  him,  "Bishop,  how  I  do  ap- 
preciate what  you  are  doing  for  my  boys."  Tell  the  superintendent, 
and  the  Sunday  School  teachers,  and  tell  your  ward  teachers.  Next 
time  they  come,  make  them  feel  at  home,  and  when  they  get  up  to 
say  good-night  after  delivering  their  lesson,  kneel  down  and  pray 
with  them,  receiving  their  blessings. 

May  we,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  have  the  will  power  to 
express  our  appreciation — not  only  to  appreciate,  but  also  to  ex- 
press that  appreciation  more,  and  to  pray  together  oftener. 

Testimony 

And  in  conclusion,  may  I,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  express 
with  all  my  heart  my  gratitude  to  my  Father  in  heaven  for  giving 
me  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 
I  know  that  he  lives,  that  he  is  our  Father.  We  are  all  his  children. 
I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  his  Church  is  upon  the 
earth,  and  that  the  men  who  have  stood  at  the  head  of  this  Church 
from  the  time  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  the  present  time  when 
President  David  O.  McKay  stands  at  the  head,  have  all  been  called 
of  God,  and  they  have  been  set  apart  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  to 
preside  over  the  Church,  to  preach  the  gospel,  and  to  administer 
in  the  ordinances  thereof.  I  bear  you  this  testimony  humbly,  and 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  grateful,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  to  meet  with  you  in  gen- 
eral conference  again.  I  was  greatly  impressed  by  that  masterful 
sermon  of  our  President  as  he  opened  the  conference;  and  with 
these  other  brethren.  I  surely  sustain  him  as  the  prophet,  seer,  and 
revelator  of  the  Lord. 

I  was  more  than  happy  to  see  Brother  Thomas  E.  McKay 
here,  and  I  am  so  glad  that  he  bore  that  wonderful  testimony  to 
you.  I  think  I  would  like  to  tell  you  another  testimony  about 
Brother  Thomas  E.  McKay,  and  I  believe  I  will  make  that  my  ad- 
dress to  you  here  in  this  conference. 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  5  First  Day 

Incident  of  Healing 

Not  very  long  ago  I  was  down  in  one  of  the  California  stakes 
attending  a  stake  conference.  At  the  close  of  the  morning  meeting, 
one  of  the  bishops  brought  his  mother  to  the  stand  as  she  wished 
to  shake  hands  and  send  a  message  back  home.  When  she  reached 
the  stand,  she  said,  "Will  you  give  a  message  from  me  to  Brother 
Thomas  E.  McKay?" 

I  said,  "I  shall  be  very  glad  to." 

She  said:  "It  has  been  a  couple  of  years  since  he  was  here  to 
stake  conference,  but  I  want  you  to  take  a  message  to  him." 

At  that  time  I  was  holding  in  my  hands  a  Book  of  Mormon 
that  I  had  used  during  the  conference.  She  took  the  Book  of 
Mormon  from  my  hands  and  opened  it  and  read  a  paragraph  to  me, 
then  she  closed  the  book  and  gave  it  back. 

She  said,  "Two  years  ago  Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay  was  down 
here  to  our  stake  conference.  I  was  blind.  I  knew  that  if  he  would 
lay  his  hands  upon  my  head  I  would  receive  my  sight  again.  I  sent 
over  to  the  conference  and  had  him  come.  He  and  the  other 
brethren  laid  their  hands  upon  my  head,  and  blessed  me.  Now  you 
see  that  without  even  the  use  of  glasses  I  have  been  able  to  read  a 
paragraph  from  your  book.  When  you  get  back  to  Salt  Lake  City, 
will  you  tell  him  what  I  have  done  here  today  and  express  to  him 
the  gratitude  I  feel  to  the  Lord  that  one  of  his  chosen  servants  came 
down  here  and  was  willing  to  lay  his  hands  upon  my  head?  Where- 
as I  was  blind  two  years  ago,  now  I  can  see  and  I  can  read  without 
glasses." 

A  True  Servant 

I  thought  that  was  a  beautiful  testimony  she  bore  to  one  of  the 
servants  of  God.  I  have  loved  Brother  McKay  ever  since  I  first 
became  acquainted  with  him  some  years  ago.  I  can  testify  to  you 
along  with  this  good  sister  from  California  that  indeed  Thomas 
E.  McKay  through  his  life  has  been  a  true  servant  of  God,  and  I 
am  glad  that  he  stood  here  today  and  bore  that  fervent  testimony 
that  he  knows  that  God  lives;  that  he  knows  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ; 
that  he  knows  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  prophet  of  God;  and 
that  all  the  men  who  have  succeeded  him  in  the  presidency  of  this 
Church  likewise  are  prophets  of  the  Lord. 

I  bear  you  this  testimony  also  because  I  know  that  these  things 
are  true,  and  I  give  you  this  testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  wish  that  Brother  Petersen  had  followed  me  instead  of  pre- 
ceding me,  for  I  should  have  tried  to  see  that  he  had  more  time  and 
I  had  less. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


21 


I  should  like  to  express  my  appreciation  for  my  association 
and  membership  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  for  the 
confidence  and  encouragement  of  the  First  Presidency  and  my 
other  brethren  among  the  General  Authorities,  and  to  express  my 
support  and  prayers  for  them  in  the  heavy  burdens  they  carry. 

Evidence  of  Faith 

President  McKay's  report  this  morning  of  one  item  reminded 
me  of  an  interpretation  that  I  have  placed  for  my  own  personal 
comfort  upon  the  fact  of  our  tremendous  building  program,  and  I 
have  stated  it  previously  to  this  congregation:  I  believe  that  some 
four  hundred  and  twenty  buildings  actually  in  the  course  of  con- 
struction at  the  present  time  is  a  great  and  tangible  evidence  of 
the  faith  of  this  Church  and  its  leadership  in  the  future,  and  I  like 
to  accept  it  as  such. 

Temple  Square  Activities 

Perhaps  you  will  be  interested  in  knowing  of  some  of  the 
activities  on  Temple  Square  this  past  year.  Up  to  the  close  of 
September,  we  had  had  some  895,439  visitors  come  through  the  gates 
of  Temple  Square  for  this  year  of  1951.  The  general  travel  index, 
in  this  area,  at  least,  is  a  little  down,  as  compared  to  last  year,  as 
indicated  by  the  business  barometer  of  those  establishments  that 
largely  deal  with  tourist  trade.  But  it  looks  again  as  if  we  may 
reach  or  exceed,  or  at  least  closely  approach,  the  million  mark  again 
— a  million  visitors  who  have  come  to  see  us  as  we  are  on  Temple 
Square  during  this  year  of  1951.  And  we  are  pleased  to  report  that 
despite  some  decrease  in  general  tourist  travel  and  in  the  number  of 
visitors  who  have  passed  through  our  gates,  we  have  had  the  privi- 
lege of  conducting  tours  and  telling  our  story  to  more  people  this 
year,  up  to  this  time,  than  ever  before  on  record,  in  a  like  period 
of  time. 

We  have  the  great  privilege  of  meeting  here  some  of  the 
finest  people  from  almost  every  part  of  the  world,  and  it  is  encourag- 
ing and  gratifying  to  partake  of  their  spirit  as  they  come  here — 
asking  and  with  open  arms,  and  they  are  gracious  guests,  as  we 
try  to  be  gracious  hosts — to  Temple  Square,  which  I  believe  to  be 
the  greatest  ten  acres  in  the  world,  that  I  know  anything  of,  at  least. 

I  remember  one  fine,  elderly  lady  from  a  remote  part  of  the 
country,  who  not  many  weeks  ago  looked  over  the  valley  and  said, 
"No  wonder  Brigham  Young  and  the  pioneers  chose  this  place." 
Well,  it  looks  easy  after  the  work  is  done;  it  looks  desirable.  But 
every  time  I  look  at  the  tabernacle  and  the  temple,  and  every  time 
I  hear  the  organ,  I  am  made  humble  in  thinking  of  what  they  did 
with  what  they  had. 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  5  First  Day 

Church  Affiliations 

Brother  Harold  Lundstrom  invited  my  attention  to  a  most 
interesting  figure  or  two  from  the  1951  Yearbook  of  American 
Churches  published  only  last  month.  Sometimes  people  ask  us 
why  we  send  missionaries  to  Christian  peoples.  This  yearbook, 
published  by  the  National  Council  of  Churches,  indicates  that  there 
are  about  256  religious  groups  in  the  United  States  at  the  present 
time,  to  which  some  eighty-seven  million  people  belong.  Only 
about  fifty-eight  percent  of  the  population  of  the  United  States  of 
America  claims  or  is  counted  as  having  affiliation  with  any  church 
group,  which  means  that  beside  those  who  are  somewhat  disaffected 
or  disinterested  or  inactive  or  who  haven't  found  what  they  want 
in  their  own  churches,  there  are  some  sixty  to  seventy  millions  of 
people  right  here  among  us  in  our  own  nation,  who  are  not  claimed 
by,  and  do  not  claim,  any  church.  Certainly  one  of  the  greatest 
missionary  fields  in  the  world  is  here  at  home,  besides  our  abundant 
opportunities  abroad. 


Obligations  to  Children 

President  McKay  and  other  speakers  have  mentioned  our 
obligations  to  our  children,  and  some  thoughts  have  been  running 
through  my  mind  concerning  them:  It  doesn't  matter  what  you  have 
if  you  don't  deliver  it,  no  matter  what  talent  or  ability  or  capacity. 
It  doesn't  matter  what  truth  you  possess  if  you  don't  use  it.  And, 
so  far  as  the  next  generation  is  concerned,  it  doesn't  matter  what 
you  have  learned  if  you  don't  pass  it  on.  Every  generation  needs 
teaching,  not  only  by  example,  but  also  by  specific  word,  and,  as 
indicated  by  President  McKay,  the  great  number  of  hours  we 
have  with  our  children  in  the  home,  as  compared  with  their  hours  in 
schools  and  the  churches,  is  somewhat  indicative  of  the  ratio  of 
our  responsibility  concerning  them.  Every  generation  is  a  relay 
station  to  pass  on  the  great,  eternal  truths  to  the  next  generation, 
and  I  pray  that  we  may  do  so  and  that  no  part  of  this  eternal  mes- 
sage may  stop  at  our  relay  point  but  may  be  continually  passed  on 
to  the  next  generation — to  our  children  and  our  children's  children. 

A  Peculiar  People 

We  sometimes  hear  the  phrase  applied  to  us  (sometimes  ap- 
plied to  us  by  ourselves)  that  we  are  a  "peculiar  people."  The 
word  peculiar  is  not  peculiar  to  us;  it  is  peculiar  to  scripture.  It 
is  a  word  by  which  the  Lord  describes  a  generation  that  he  will 
have,  peculiar  in  purity,  in  honor,  in  righteousness  as  indicated  in 
both  Old  and  New  Testament  texts.  And  I  believe  the  opportunity 
we  have  with  our  children  and  with  the  visitors  who  come  here 
prompts  us  more  than  ever  to  have  in  mind  that  we  must  be  in 
some  respects  set  apart  and  in  some  respects  different — not  queer, 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


23 


that  is  not  the  connotation  of  the  word  as  applied  in  scripture — 
but  I  think  we  should  be  peculiarly  honest,  peculiarly  dependable, 
peculiarly  industrious,  peculiarly  willing  in  our  work,  peculiarly 
kind,  peculiarly  hospitable,  peculiarly  understanding,  and  peculiarly 
happy. 

And  I  am  sure  that  our  young  people  are  peculiarly  blessed  in 
many  ways.  For  one  thing  they  are  blessed  with  membership  in  a 
Church  that  is  committed  to  the  acceptance  of  all  truth.  They  are 
blessed  in  knowing  that  there  is  no  truth  that  they  could  ever  dis- 
cover that  their  Church  would  not  accept  in  any  field  of  thought 
or  learning.  All  that  the  Church  asks  is  that  what  it  is  asked  to 
accept  shall  be  beyond  theory,  beyond  supposition,  beyond  private 
opinion.  They  are  peculiarly  blessed  in  belonging  to  a  Church 
that  will  accept  every  truth  they  ever  discover  in  any  field  or  from 
any  source. 

We  should  be,  and  I  think  we  are,  peculiarly  sustained  in 
hardship  and  in  times  of  difficulty,  and  peculiarly  comforted  in 
times  of  sorrow  and  uncertainty;  and  I  ask  our  Father  in  heaven 
that  his  blessings  may  be  upon  these  young  people  of  ours  who  are 
faced  with  uncertainty  and  difficult  situations  that  they  may  be 
peculiarly  blessed  as  they  live  for  these  blessings  and  keep  their 
covenants  and  are  faithful  in  the  performance  of  their  duties,  wher- 
ever their  country  may  call  them,  wherever  mission  service  or  any 
other  essential  service  may  take  them. 

And  may  this  be  a  time  for  teaching  our  children  of  the  mis- 
sion and  message  of  him  who  said,  "of  such  is  the  kingdom  of 
heaven";  and  may  his  peace  and  the  fulfilment  of  his  promises  be 
unto  all  of  us;  and  may  we  repent  where  we  need  repentance  and 
conform  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  live  so 
that  those  who  come  to  see  us  will  sense  our  "peculiarities"  in  the 
constructive  sense  in  which  the  Lord  used  the  word  in  scripture. 

I  ask  that  the  blessing  of  our  Father  in  heaven  may  be  with 
each  of  us  in  all  of  our  problems,  in  all  of  our  decisions  in  life,  in 
our  counseling  of  our  children,  in  our  teaching  them  the  great  and 
eternal  truths,  and  in  all  our  meetings  with  others,  so  that  our  lives 
may  be  consistent  with  our  convictions  and  with  the  command- 
ments of  God,  that  our  conduct  may  be  consistent  with  those  things 
we  profess,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  been  deeply  impressed,  as  you  have,  with  the  testi- 
monies and  remarks  of  these  Brethren. 

We  are  now  nearing  the  conclusion  of  this  first  session.  I  have 
been  most  favorably  impressed  with  the  reverential  attitude  of 
this  large  congregation.  Truly  there  has  been  a  spirit  of  worship. 
Though  every  seat  is  taken,  members  standing  in  the  gallery  and  in 
the  rear  of  the  hall,  there  has  scarcely  been  a  sound  that  has  been 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  5  First  Day 

out  of  harmony  with  this  peaceful  spirit.  I  mention  it  as  an  example 
to  all  the  wards  in  the  Church. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  will  now  sing:  "The  Voice 
in  the  Wilderness,"  directed  by  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Gilbert  R.  Tingey, 
formerly  president  of  the  Samoan  Mission,  after  which  this  con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  until  2:00  o'clock  this  afternoon.  The 
proceedings  of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL,  and  by 
arrangement  through  KSL  over  the  other  stations  named  at  the 
beginning  of  this  meeting.  The  conference  will  also  be  broadcast 
over  the  television  station  of  KSL,  channel  5. 

Important  messages  and  calls  coming  to  us  for  persons  supposed 
to  be  in  attendance  at  the  conference  will  be  announced  at  the  dis- 
missal of  the  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the  grounds. 
Similar  messages  coming  in  will  likewise  be  broadcast  at  the  close 
of  each  general  session  of  the  conference  without  further  notice. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  with  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conduct- 
ing, and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang,  "The  Voice  in  the 
Wilderness." 

Elder  Gilbert  R.  Tingey,  formerly  President  of  the  Samoan 
Mission,  offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle at  2:00  p.m.,  Friday,  October  5,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the  services. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-second 
Semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City. 

These  services  and  all  general  sessions  of  the  conference  will 
be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  60  North 
Main,  over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the 
stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  this  conference. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


25 


This  session  will  be  televised  also  over  the  KSL  television  sta- 
tion, channel  5. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  will  be  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  with  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conducting,  and 
Elder  Frank  W,  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Moth- 
ers singing:  "By  the  Waters  of  Babylon." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Gaskell  Romney, 
Patriarch  to  the  Bonneville  Stake. 


Singing,  "By  the  Waters  of  Babylon,"  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Gaskell  Romney, 
Patriarch  to  the  Bonneville  Stake. 

The  hymn,  "Come  Unto  Me,"  was  sung  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

I  think  I  have,  never  stood  before  a  conference  congregation 
when  I  have  felt  so  utterly  dependent  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
and  upon  your  sustaining  faith  and  prayers.  I  lean  heavily  upon 
you  and  ask  for  an  interest  in  your  prayers. 

Before  you  and  my  Heavenly  Father  I  confess  my  weaknesses, 
my  shortcomings,  and  ask  for  his  pardon,  that  I  might  be  in  such  a 
condition  as  to  have  the  direction  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  not  only  as  I 
shall  occupy  these  few  moments,  but  also  as  I  go  forward  and  at- 
tempt to  undertake  the  great  responsibilities  that  devolve  upon  one 
called  to  serve  in  this  great  Church. 

An  Abiding  Testimony 

I  have  searched  my  soul,  and  I  feel  that  I  can  say  to  you  that 
I  count  by  far  the  most  valuable  of  all  the  things  which  I  possess 
today  an  abiding  testimony  in  the  divinity  of  this  work.  I  know 
that  my  Redeemer  lives.  The  certainty  and  conviction  that  I  feel 
in  my  soul  today  is  as  certain  as  that  night  follows  day. 

I  have  been  grateful  that  I  have  found  myself  in  full  harmony 
with  that  inspiring  message  of  our  leader,  President  McKay,  this 
morning.  His  remarks  and  the  prayer  that  was  offered  at  the 
commencement  of  this  service  by  Patriarch  Gaskell  Romney  have 
led  my  mind  into  a  train  of  thinking,  which,  if  the  spirit  will  bless 
me,  I  desire  to  follow. 


26 

Friday,  October  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
Parable  of  the  Ten  Virgins 


First  Day 


Patriarch  Romney,  in  his  prayer,  said  that  the  greatest  weak- 
ness among  us  today  was  from  within.  The  Master  taught  a  great 
truth  in  a  lesson  which  has  been  given  to  us  for  generations  since 
that  time  to  prepare  us  and  to  teach  us  in  things  that  pertain  to  our 
day,  and  the  events  which  are  to  come.  This  is  the  message,  the 
words  of  which  are  not  new  to  any  of  you  who  listen: 

Then  shall  the  kingdom  of  heaven  be  likened  unto  ten  virgins,  which 
took  their  lamps,  and  went  forth  to  meet  the  bridegroom. 

And  five  of  them  were  wise,  and  five  were  foolish. 

They  that  were  foolish  took  their  lamps,  and  took  no  oil  with  them: 

But  the  wise  took  oil  in  their  vessels  with  their  lamps. 

While  the  bridegroom  tarried,  they  all  slumbered  and  slept. 

And  at  midnight  there  was  a  cry  made,  Behold,  the  bridegroom  Com- 
eth; go  ye  out  to  meet  him. 

Then  all  those  virgins  arose,  and  trimmed  their  lamps. 

And  the  foolish  said  unto  the  wise,  Give  us  of  your  oil;  for  our 
lamps  are  gone  out. 

But  the  wise  answered,  saying,  Not  so;  lest  there  be  not  enough  for 
us  and  you:  but  go  ye  rather  to  them  that  sell,  and  buy  for  yourselves. 

And  while  they  went  to  buy,  the  bridegroom  came;  and  they  that 
were  ready  went  in  with  him  to  the  marriage:  and  the  door  was  shut. 

Afterward  came  also  the  other  virgins,  saying,  Lord,  Lord,  open  to  us. 

But  he  answered  and  said,  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  I  know  you  not. 

Watch,  therefore,  for  ye  know  neither  the  day  nor  the  hour,  wherein 
the  Son  of  man  cometh.  (Matt.  25:1-13.) 

This  was  a  parable,  as  with  many  of  the  Master's  teachings, 
based  upon  customs  with  which  the  people,  his  hearers,  were  already 
familiar. 

The  purpose  of  this  lesson  was  to  impress  upon  those  called  to 
the  ministry  and  upon  his  followers  and  upon  the  world  that  there 
should  be  an  unceasing  watchfulness  and  preparation  for  the  day 
which  he  had  predicted  when  the  Lord  would  come  again  in  judg- 
ment upon  the  earth. 

The  bridegroom  of  the  parable  was  the  Master,  the  Savior  of 
mankind.  The  marriage  feast  symbolized  the  second  coming  of 
the  Savior  to  receive  his  Church  unto  himself.  The  virgins  were 
those  who  were  professed  believers  in  Christ,  because  they  were 
expectantly  waiting  for  the  coming  of  the  bridegroom  to  the  mar- 
riage feast,  or  they  were  connected  with  the  Church  and  the  events 
which  were  to  transpire  with  reference  to  it. 

Modern  Reference 

That  this  parable  did  refer  particularly  to  the  believers  in 
Christ  with  a  warning  to  them  is  further  indicated  by  what  the 
Lord  has  told  us  in  modern  revelation  in  which  he  said: 

These  are  the  things  that  ye  must  look  for;  .  .  .  even  in  the  day  of 
the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


27 


And  until  that  hour  there  will  be  foolish  virgins  among  the  wise;  and 
at  that  hour  cometh  an  entire  separation  of  the  righteous  and  the  wicked. 
(D.  6  C.  63:53-54.) 

undoubtedly  meaning  a  separation  of  the  wicked  from  the  righteous 
among  the  professing  believers  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Lord  defines  the  wise  virgins  of  his  parable  in  still  another 
revelation  in  which  he  said, 

For  they  that  are  wise  and  have  received  the  truth,  and  have  taken 
the  Holy  Spirit  for  their  guide,  and  have  not  been  deceived — verily  I  say 
unto  you,  they  shall  not  be  hewn  down  and  cast  into  the  lire,  but  shall 
abide  the  day.  (Ibid.,  45:57.) 

Here  is  clearly  indicated  a  truth  we  must  all  recognize,  that 
among  the  people  of  God,  the  believers  in  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
there  are  those  who  are  wise  and  keep  the  commandments,  and  yet 
there  are  those  who  are  foolish,  who  are  disobedient,  and  who 
neglect  their  duties. 

Process  of  Preparation 

President  Brigham  Young  corrected  an  error  with  respect  to 
the  preparation  necessary  for  the  enjoyment  of  the  presence  of  the 
Lord  when  he  comes,  in  this  statement: 

Tradition  has  taught  us  that  the  great  purpose  of  religion  is  to  pre- 
pare people  to  die,  that  when  they  have  passed  through  a  change  of 
heart,  become  converted,  they  are  ready  for  glory  at  any  moment,  and 
to  dwell  with  the  Father  and  the  Son  in  the  heavens  to  all  eternity.  This 
is  a  mistake,  for  they  have  to  improve,  become  substantially  changed  from 
bad  to  good,  from  sin  to  holiness,  here  or  somewhere  else,  before  they  are 
prepared  for  the  society  they  anticipate  enjoying.  [Discourses  of  Brigham 
Young,  1943  ed,  p.  16.) 

Preparation  for  that  achievement  is  a  process.  For  that  very 
purpose  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was  restored  in  its  fulness  in  this 
dispensation.  So  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  told  by  the  Angel 
Moroni,  as  the  Prophet  has  recorded  in  his  history: 

This  messenger,  proclaimed  himself  to  be  an  angel  of  God,  sent  to 
bring  the  joyful  tidings  that  the  covenant  which  God  made  with  ancient 
Israel  was  at  hand  to  be  fulfilled;  that  the  preparatory  work  {or  the  second 
coming  of  the  Messiah  was  speedily  to  commence;  that  the  time  was  at 
hand  for  the  gospel  in  all  its  fulness  to  be  preached  in  power,  unto  all  na- 
tions, that  a  people  might  be  prepared  for  the  millennial  reign.  (Read 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Joseph  Smith,  2.) 

A  Voice  of  Warning 

The  responsibilities  of  the  prophets  in  every  dispensation  have 
been  to  sound  a  warning  for  the  nations  to  repent  and  to  come  unto 
the  Lord  and  avoid  the  judgments  that  otherwise  will  be  sent  upon 
mankind. 

President  Wilford  Woodruff,  in  a  sermon  delivered  to  temple 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

workers  in  Brigham  City  in  June  1894,  made  a  remarkable  predic- 
tion and  a  statement  with  regard  to  these  matters.  A  part  of  his 
sermon  is  as  follows: 

We  cannot  draw  a  veil  over  the  events  that  await  this  generation.  No 
man  that  is  inspired  by  the  spirit  and  power  of  God  can  close  his  ears  and 
his  eyes  or  his  lips  to  these  things.  When  I  have  the  vision  of  night 
open  continually  before  my  eyes  and  can  see  the  mighty  judgments  that 
are  about  to  be  poured  out  upon  this  world;  when  I  know  these  things 
are  true,  and  are  at  the  door  of  the  Jew  and  Gentile;  while  I  know  they 
are  true,  while  I  am  holding  this  position  before  God  and  this  world,  can 
I  withhold  my  voice  from  lifting  up  a  warning  to  this  people  and  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth?  .  .  .  And  from  this  very  day  they  shall  be  poured 
out.  Calamities  and  troubles  are  increasing  in  the  earth,  and  there  is  a 
meaning  to  these  things.  .  .  .  Read  the  scriptures  and  the  revelations. 
They  will  tell  you  about  these  things.  Great  changes  are  at  our  doors. 
The  next  twenty  years  will  see  mighty  changes  among  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  You  will  live  to  see  these  things  whether  I  do  or  not.  I  have 
felt  oppressed  with  the  weight  of  these  matters,  and  I  have  felt  that  I 
must  speak  of  them  here;  it  is  by  the  power  of  the  gospel  we  shall  escape. 
(The  Improvement  Era,  17:1164-65.) 

He  enumerated  a  number  of  the  calamities  which  he  had  fore- 
seen, and  then  stated:  "They  are  at  our  very  doors,  and  not  even 
this  people  will  escape  them  entirely." 

Twenty  years  later,  as  he  had  predicted,  lacking  one  month, 
the  great  world  war  of  July  1914  broke  in  all  its  fury.  Many  of 
you  here  have  been  witneses  of  the  fulfilment  of  what  President 
Woodruff  said,  and  from  that  time  to  the  present  time  there  has 
been  an  increasing  intensity  of  the  troubles  and  difficulties  upon  the 
earth. 

He  sounded  a  note  of  comfort  and  blessing,  however,  in  his 
closing  statement. 

Remember  this,  and  reflect  upon  these  matters, 
he  said, 

If  you  do  your  duty,  and  I  do  mine,  we  shall  have  protection,  and 
shall  pass  through  the  afflictions  in  peace  and  safety. 

Warning  of  President  Smith 

Shortly  after  the  general  conference  a  year  ago  last  April, 
I  met  a  man  on  the  street  who  was  inclined  to  be  critical  of  the  fact, 
he  said,  that  the  Church  was  not  receiving  revelations,  and  why 
was  it  that  the  Lord  wasn't  revealing  his  mind  and  will  to  his  lead- 
ers. I  happened  to  have  in  my  pocket  a  clipping  from  President 
George  Albert  Smith's  last  address,  and  I  took  it  out  and  read  this 
to  him: 

Said  President  Smith  at  the  April  conference  just  one  year 
before  his  death: 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


29 


Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  go  to  our  homes;  and  if  our  houses  are 
not  in  order,  let  us  set  them  in  order.  Let  us  renew  our  determination 
to  honor  God  and  keep  his  commandments,  to  love  one  another,  to  make 
our  homes  the  abiding  place  of  peace.  Each  of  us  can  contribute  to  that 
in  the  homes  in  which  we  live. 

It  will  not  be  long  until  calamities  will  overtake  the  human  family 
unless  they  seek  speedy  repentance.  It  will  not  be  long  before  those  who 
are  scattered  over  the  face  of  the  earth  by  millions  will  die  like  flies  be- 
cause of  what  will  come. 

Our  Heavenly  Father  has  told  us  how  it  can  be  avoided,  and  that  is 
our  mission,  in  part,  to  go  into  the  world  and  explain  to  the  people  how 
it  may  be  avoided.  (Ibid..  53:410.) 

President  Smith  could  not  have  made  that  statement  except 
as  the  Lord  revealed  it  to  him. 


The  Lord  in  a  revelation  has  told  us  that  it  is  the  obligation 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  listen  to  the  counsel  of  their  leaders. 
In  the  preface  to  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  the  Lord 
has  said  this  in  plainness. 

And  the  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed;  and  the  day  cometh  that 
they  who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  his 
servants,  neither  give  heed  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles 
shall  be  cut  off  from  among  the  people. 

For  they  have  strayed  from  mine  ordinances,  and  have  broken  mine 
everlasting  covenant.  (D.  &  C.  1:14-15.) 

Could  it  be  that  these  who  will  be  cut  off,  of  which  the  Lord 
spoke  are  the  foolish  virgins  in  the  parable  of  the  Master?  As  I 
thought  back  over  the  admonitions  of  our  present  leaders,  President 
McKay,  President  Richards,  and  President  Clark,  I  have  wondered 
how  much  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  tried  to  recall  and  keep  in 
their  minds  and  hearts  the  admonitions  of  these,  the  Lord's  appoint- 
ed servants.  May  I  merely  mention  but  a  few  of  the  admonitions 
of  our  present  leaders  to  impress  the  importance  of  heeding  the 
counsel  of  the  prophets  of  our  day: 

Did  you  listen  carefully  to  hear  President  McKay  re-echo 
what  he  has  said  on  past  occasions,  that  we  should  use  the  divine 
gift  of  agency  to  put  to  flight  the  degenerate  tendencies  in  men  and 
nations,  and  thereby  find  the  way  to  eternal  life?  And  did  you  hear 
him  say  that  what  you  sincerely  think  of  Christ  in  your  heart  will 
determine  what  you  are,  and  will  largely  determine  what  your  ac- 
tions will  be?  Have  you  heard  President  Richards  plead  with  us 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  God;  and  to  preserve  the  sacredness 
of  the  home;  and  heard  him  say  that  one  of  the  greatest  deterrents 
to  wrong  doing  has  been  the  fear  of  losing  a  place  in  the  eternal 
family  circle? 


Obligation  to  Follow  Counsel 


should  have  sought  to  apply  in  our  daily  conduct. 


should  not  have  forgotten  and 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

President  Clark's  admonitions  and  pleas  for  the  unity  of  the 
Saints  by  following  the  leadership  of  the  President  of  the  Church; 
his  warnings  against  false  heresies,  and  his  efforts  to  arouse  the 
people  to  protect  our  liberties  as  guaranteed  by  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States,  certainly  are  messages  which  we  could  not  well 
afford  to  overlook  in  this  day  of  stern  judgment  if  we  would  escape 
the  calamities  of  which  the  prophets  have  warned. 

"A  Lamp  to  Your  Feet" 

Every  baptized  member  of  the  Church  may  become  a  virgin 
of  purity  through  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins, 
through  the  atoning  power  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  At  our  bap- 
tism we  had  hands  laid  upon  our  heads,  and  we  were  told  by  the 
officiating  elders  words  that  went  something  like  this, 

Receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  will  be  a  lamp  to  your  feet,  a  guide 
to  your  path,  which  will  bring  all  things  to  your  remembrance,  which 
will  show  you  things  to  come,  and  will  even  reveal  by  its  power  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  himself. 

All  of  those  promises,  of  course,  are  conditioned  upon  obedi- 
ence and  faithfulness  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  God. 

The  Lord  gives  us,  each  one,  a  lamp  to  carry,  but  whether 
or  not  we  shall  have  oil  in  our  lamps  depends  solely  upon  each  one 
of  us.  Whether  or  not  we  keep  the  commandments  and  supply  the 
needed  oil  to  light  our  way  and  to  guide  us  on  our  way  depends 
upon  each  of  us  individually.  We  cannot  borrow  from  our  Church 
membership.  We  cannot  borrow  from  an  illustrious  ancestry. 
Whether  or  not  we  have  oil  in  our  lamps,  I  repeat,  depends  solely 
upon  each  one  of  us,  it  is  determined  by  our  faithfulness  in  keeping 
the  commandments  of  the  Living  God. 

We  must  buy  from  the  only  source  from  which  we  can  obtain 
this  kind  of  oil  referred  to  by  the  Master- — from  the  fountain  of 
eternal  supply. 

God  grant  that  we  won't  forget  these  admonitions,  and  that 
the  parable  of  the  ten  virgins  will  have  a  meaning  to  us,  to  all  lead- 
ers throughout  the  Church,  to  go  out  seeking  in  the  highways  and 
byways  of  the  Lord's  kingdom  to  prepare  the  people,  that  except 
they  repent  and  turn  unto  the  Lord  these  things  which  have  been 
predicted  will  surely  come.  May  all  Church  members  remember 
that  in  the  day  when  the  Lord  said  peace  would  be  taken  from  the 
earth  and  the  devil  would  have  power  over  his  dominion,  he  also 
said  that  he,  the  Lord,  would  reign  in  the  midst  of  his  Saints  when 
he  would  come  down  in  judgment  upon  Idumea,  or  the  world. 

So  he  is  reigning  in  the  midst  of  his  Saints,  revealing  himself 
to  his  leaders,  that  through  them  to  this  people  we  might  never 
be  left  in  doubt  but  might  know  of  a  certainty  that  he  will  do  noth- 
ing save  he  reveals  himself  to  his  servants,  the  prophets. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


31 


I  bear  you  my  humble  witness  that  I  know  these  things  are 
true,  and  the  Lord  has  spoken  and  is  speaking  to  us  today  in  a  way 
that  he  has  talked  to  his  people  in  every  dispensation,  and  I  bear 
it  humbly  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  stand  before  you  this 
afternoon  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  I  am  reminded  that  it  is 
twenty  years  ago  this  month  since  I  first  had  this  privilege,  if  you 
will  call  it  such,  and  I  find  it  no  easier  today  than  it  was  then.  Why 
it  shouldn't  grow  easier,  I  don't  know,  except  that  one  comes  to 
understand  greater  the  responsibility  of  the  office  that  he  holds. 

Twenty  Years'  Service 

During  those  twenty  years  it  has  been  our  purpose,  that  of 
Sister  Ivins  and  me,  to  serve  you  faithfully.  She  has  stood  by  my 
side,  done  everything  that  she  possibly  could  to  help  me  in  what 
I  have  to  do.  That  whole  time  she  has  never  made  a  complaint 
because  I  have  had  to  serve  or  placed  an  obstacle  in  my  way.  I 
appreciate  her,  and  I  want  you  all  to  know  it. 

In  that  service  I  have  become  acquainted  with  many,  many 
fine  men  and  women,  and  if  in  it  all  I  have  been  of  any  aid  or  any 
comfort  to  anyone,  it  is  all  the  blessing — all  the  compensation  I 
would  ask.  I  have  never  ever  had  any  other  major  purpose  since 
coming  to  this  Council  than  to  serve  you  to  the  best  of  my  ability. 
I  have  had  the  privilege  of  serving  under  three  presidents  of  the 
Church,  and  I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  in  that  acquaint- 
ance I  have  come  to  love  them  dearly,  and  I  have  never  seen  any- 
thing in  their  actions  that  I  have  felt  to  complain  over.  I  bear  you 
my  testimony  that  they  are  in  the  service  of  God,  and  they  are 
called  of  God;  that  their  motives  are  high  and  holy  and  pure;  that 
their  whole  service  is  in  your  interest  and  in  the  interests  of  the 
Church. 

Now  we  are  gathered  here  today  to  give  our  testimony  to 
each  other  and  to  stimulate  our  faith  in  so  doing.  If  we  can  leave 
this  conference  feeling  a  little  more  loyalty  to  the  Church,  with  a 
little  stronger  resolution  to  do  our  duty,  those  of  us  who  have  cause 
for  it,  and  a  little  greater  determination  to  repent  and  correct  our 
lives,  even  though  there  be  but  a  few  that  need  that  last  admonition, 
the  conference  will  be  well  worth  while.  I  trust  that  we  may  have 
just  that  result,  that  as  we  go  away  we  may  know  better  our  duty 
and  have  a  greater  determination  to  serve. 

Failure  to  Apply  Gospel 
We  worry  about  the  conditions  of  the  world,  and  they  are  not 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  5  First  Dag 

to  our  liking,  that  is  true.  We  would  like  to  know  the  causes  and 
the  cures  for  them.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  major  reason  for  the 
unsavory  things  that  are  happening  in  the  world  is  the  failure  of 
men  to  apply  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  their  lives.  First,  we 
must  know  him,  know  what  he  would  have  us  do,  and  then  do  it. 

I  remember  that  soon  after  my  father  passed  away,  I  found  in 
going  through  his  papers  a  magazine  published  by  the  Jewish  Israel 
Movement  in  which  there  was  a  purported  interview  with  a  Jewish 
rabbi  who  had  cast  upon  Christianity  the  blame  for  all  the  persecu- 
tions that  his  people  had  suffered  and  who  finished  by  saying  that 
Christianity  is  a  failure  in  the  world.  As  I  read  it,  I  thought  of 
the  Crusades,  and  I  thought  of  the  suppression  of  learning  of  the 
Middle  Ages,  and  many  other  things  which  people  don't  like  which 
they  say  form  part  and  parcel  of  the  history  of  Christianity;  but  it 
appealed  to  me  that  it  is  not  Christianity  but  the  failure  to  apply 
Christianity  that  we  are  looking  at,  and  those  evils  come  not  from 
its  observance  but  from  its  non-observance. 

The  World's  Need 

If  we  could  teach  the  world  the  proper  concept  of  God  and 
Christ  and  our  relationship  to  them,  and  do  it  in  such  a  way  that  it 
would  sink  into  their  hearts  and  impel  them  to  study  the  teachings 
of  the  Savior,  then  apply  them  in  their  lives,  all  these  troubles  that 
we  worry  about  now  would  cease.  But  the  trouble  is,  men  are 
avaricious;  they  are  selfish;  they  are  ambitious  for  power.  They 
have  nearly  all  of  the  attributes  which,  if  left  unbridled,  lead  to 
these  terrible  consequences.  It  is  only  the  Spirit  of  God  and  Christ 
coming  into  the  heart  of  man  that  can  change  his  nature  so  that  he 
will  serve  properly  his  fellow  men.  That,  I  think,  is  the  purpose  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  we  should  learn  that  great  com- 
mandment of  God,  the  second,  that  we  should  love  our  fell  lows  as  we 
love  ourselves.  If  we  love  God  and  serve  him,  we  will  serve  our 
fellows  because  serving  them  is  the  only  way  we  can  manifest  to 
him  that  we  are  willing  to  serve  him. 

The  Place  to  Begin 

Now,  we  are  a  small  group.  It  is  a  tremendous  task  to  think 
of  remaking  the  world,  but  if  we  are  going  to  have  any  influence 
on  it,  where  must  we  start?  I  think  that  we  must  start  with  our- 
selves individually  first,  then  in  the  family.  During  the  conference 
of  the  Relief  Society,  which  ended  yesterday,  we  listened  to  some 
very  wonderful  talks  on  the  family,  how  it  should  be  organized  and 
its  purpose.  Right  there,  it  seems  to  me,  is  the  place  where  we 
should  begin  to  clear  up  these  things.  If  every  family  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  were  a  model  family,  if  every 
family  were  presided  over  by  a  man  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood, a  man  who  is  understanding  as  to  his  responsibilities,  who 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


33 


has  the  power  of  leadership  with  his  children,  we  could  form  such 
a  strong  body  that  all  the  rest  of  the  world  would  eventually  have 
to  take  notice  of  it  and  recognize  its  power,  and  its  influence  in  the 
world  would  be  good. 

But  I  learn  in  studying  the  records  of  the  stakes  I  visit  that  per- 
haps not  more  than  seventy  or  seventy-five  per  cent  of  the  families 
of  the  Church  have  a  man  standing  at  their  head  who  holds  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood.  Then  out  of  that  seventy  or  seventy-five 
percent,  as  the  case  may  be,  there  are  many  who  make  no  effort  to 
magnify  this  priesthood.  They  accept  it  for  certain  reasons,  but 
they  make  little  effort  to  magnify  it. 

Marriage  for  Eternity 

I  have  visited  stakes  where  there  were  as  few  as  thirty-two 
percent  of  the  families  represented  in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood, 
others  where  it  ran  as  high  as  ninety-seven  percent,  and  there  I 
think,  brethren  and  sisters  is  the  place  we  ought  to  start  to  correct 
our  ills.  Those  of  us  who  have  children  at  the  age  where  they 
should  pair  off  should  be  tremendously  careful  to  impress  upon 
their  minds  the  value  of  a  proper  family  organization,  the  value  of 
marriage  in  the  temple  of  God  for  time  and  for  all  eternity.  We 
should  impress  upon  our  children  the  fact  that  when  they  go  to  that 
temple  they  should  go  prepared  to  make  it  a  lifelong  and  eternal 
undertaking,  and  that  they  should  be  serious  and  sober  in  the  selec- 
tion of  their  companions.  I  believe,  if  the  proper  attitude  were 
taken  toward  marriage,  the  divorce  problem  which  we  face  would 
be  mitigated,  if  not  abolished  within  the  Church.  There  is  an  oppor- 
tunity, there  is  a  responsibility  to  teach  young  people  the  values 
of  that  institution.  It  is  one  of  the  characteristic  things  of  the 
Church;  it  is  the  only  place  in  the  world  where  a  marriage  of  that 
kind  is  celebrated;  and  it  is  desirable  because  it  is  a  true  institution 
ordained  of  God;  and  if  people  enter  into  it  with  the  proper  spirit, 
it  is  the  greatest  safeguard  for  their  future  conduct  that  has  been 
given  us  by  God. 

We  should  not  only  teach  these  young  people  that  they  should 
go  into  that  relationship  with  the  determination  that  it  is  going  to 
endure,  but  we  should  also  teach  them  that  they  should  expect  it  to 
endure  because  they  are  clean  and  pure  and  wholesome  when  they 
begin,  and  they  are  going  to  stay  that  way  throughout.  There  are 
too  many  of  us  who  miss  right  there.  We  don't  seem  to  appreciate 
those  things.  Now  is  it  possible  to  teach  young  people  these  things 
so  that  they  will  appreciate  them?  I  believe  it  is.  Sister  Ivins  for 
a  number  of  years  was  a  guide  over  at  the  Lion  House.  One  day 
there  came  a  group  of  fine  young  people  there  to  visit.  During  that 
interview  she  took  occasion  to  teach  them  this  thing.  After  it  was 
over,  one  young  woman,  who  had  expressed,  on  the  way  in,  that 
she  was  not  going  to  be  married  in  the  temple,  came  back  with  the 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  5  First  Dag 

statement  that  she  had  enjoyed  the  visit  and  she  was  going  to  insist 
upon  a  temple  marriage.  Can  we  teach  them  that?  We  can  if  we 
will,  I  believe,  and  I  believe  it  is  one  of  the  greatest  duties  of  fathers 
and  mothers. 

Parents  to  Set  Example 

To  begin  with,  of  course,  parents  should  have  been  married 
there  themselves,  and  they  should  be  true  to  each  other.  They 
should  observe  the  standards  of  the  Church  so  that  the  example 
they  set  will  be  above  reproach  to  their  children,  and  there  ought 
never  to  be  a  thing  happen  between  husband  and  wife  that  would 
abash  or  embarrass  a  son  or  a  daughter,  so  that  when  those  sons 
and  daughters  grow  to  maturity  they  can  say  as  I  can  testify  to 
you  today,  "My  father  never  did  a  thing  that  I  was  ashamed  of  or 
gave  me  an  instruction  that  I  had  to  blush  for."  That's  your  privi- 
lege and  your  duty,  you  fathers  and  mothers,  to  teach  young  people, 
these  things  as  plainly  as  you  can;  then  if  we  can  build  that  kind 
of  family,  the  family  that  grows  up  under  that  influence  will  go 
into  a  ward  organization  with  the  same  type  of  loyalty,  and  passing 
through  the  ward  organization  will  approach  the  stake  organization 
with  the  same  loyalty  and  desire  to  conform.  And,  of  course,  out 
of  your  strength  in  your  families,  your  wards,  and  your  stakes 
grows  the  strength  of  the  Church. 

Daily  Repentance 

The  place  to  begin,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  with  ourselves  and 
our  own,  and  if  we  can  come  to  realize  the  imperfections  of  our  own 
practices  and  change  them,  God  will  bless  us.  That  is  nothing  more 
nor  less  than  repentance,  which  all  of  us  should  practice  daily. 

Now  I  hope  that  out  of  this  conference  there  will  go  a  de- 
termination on  our  part  to  better  our  lives,  starting  with  ourselves, 
to  develop  in  our  young  folk  a  loyalty  to  their  fathers  and  mothers, 
to  their  ward  organizations  and  their  stake  organizations  and  the 
Church.  That  loyalty  will'  reduce  the  adverse  criticism  that  there 
is.  There  are  many  of  us  that  find  fault  with  the  things  that  those 
of  us  who  stand  here  try  to  do  in  the  interest  of  the  people,  but 
loyalty  would  reduce  that,  and  we  would  be  happier  even  if  we 
should  not  realize  perfection  in  sustaining  the  policy  of  the  Church. 

God  grant  us  help  in  it,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  might  enjoy 
an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  during  the  few  moments  that 
I  shall  stand  before  you. 

With  you  I  have  been  deeply  moved  and  inspired  by  the  pro- 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


35 


ceedings  of  this  great  conference.  I  am  sure  the  address  of  our 
beloved  President  this  morning  inspired  each  and  every  one  of  us 
to  resolve  to  live  better  lives  exemplifying  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  we  live  it  day  by  day. 

In  the  days  of  the  Master  there  was  an  Apostle  called  John 
the  Beloved.  He  was  given  that  title  because  he  loved  the  Savior 
with  all  his  heart.  He  loved  the  people.  It  is  a  grand  thing  to 
know  that  in  this  day  we  have  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
a  prophet,  a  revelator,  and  a  seer,  who,  because  of  his  kindness  and 
his  love  for  the  people,  and  his  manifestations  of  tenderness  toward 
them,  will  be  known  as  David  the  Beloved.  I  thank  the  Lord  today 
that  he  has  been  restored  in  his  health  and  strength  and  pray  that 
the  Lord  will  always  bless  him  to  the  end  that  he  may  be  enabled 
to  perform  the  great  tasks  that  devolve  upon  him. 

Principle  of  Belief 

Some  few  weeks  ago,  returning  from  an  assignment  in  Los 
Angeles,  I  met  a  man  on  the  train  who  introduced  himself  as  the 
representative  of  a  great  business  which  was  sending  him  to  Salt 
Lake  City  to  establish  one  of  its  branches.  He  had  made  a  previous 
visit,  and  during  the  visit  he  made  a  tour  of  the  Temple  Block, 
being  deeply  impressed  by  all  that  he  heard  and  saw.  I  told  him 
that  I  had  the  honor  of  being  one  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  after  which  he  launched  into  a  discussion  of  religion,  say- 
ing he  felt  this  great  nation  could  be  saved  only  through  the  applica- 
tion of  spiritual  principles. 

He  seemed  to  be  a  very  devout  man,  as  he  attended  the  services 
of  his  church  and  met  his  financial  obligations  therein.  His  whole 
hope  for  salvation  was  upon  the  principle  of  belief  only,  and  he 
indicated  he  had  no  responsibilities  in  his  church  other  than  those 
already  mentioned.  The  attitude  of  this  gentleman  stimulated  some 
thinking  on  my  part  as  to  the  value  of  belief  which  might  not  de- 
velop into  an  abiding  faith. 

The  Savior  at  no  time  during  his  ministry  or  in  the  restoration 
of  the  gospel  ever  promulgated  the  doctrine  that  man  can  be  saved 
on  the  basis  of  belief.  Rather,  he  made  it  very  clear  and  implicit 
in  the  following  statement: 

Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heav- 
en. (Matt.  7:21.) 

In  the  analysis  of  this  statement  of  the  Savior,  it  is  made  very 
plain  that  belief  in  and  of  itself  is  not  sufficient  for  salvation,  but — 
"He  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 

James  made  it  perfectly  clear  when  he  made  this  statement: 

What  doth  it  profit  my  brethren,  though  a  man  say  he  hath  faith, 
and  have  not  works?  can  faith  save  him? 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,   October  5  First  Day 

If  a  brother  or  sister  be  naked,  and  destitute  of  daily  food, 

And  one  of  you  say  unto  them,  Depart  in  peace,  be  ye  warmed  and 
filled;  notwithstanding  ye  give  them  not  those  things  which  are  needful 
to  the  body;  what  doth  it  profit? 

Even  so  faith,  if  it  hath  not  works,  is  dead,  being  alone. 

Yea,  a  man  may  say,  Thou  hast  faith,  and  I  have  works:  shew  me 
thy  faith  without  thy  works,  and  I  will  shew  thee  my  faith  by  my  works. 
(James  2:14-18.) 

Steppingstone  to  Faith 

We  cannot  wholly  discount  the  principle  of  belief,  for  it  is  the 
first  steppingstone  to  faith.  The  Apostle  Paul  declared.  ".  .  .  for 
he  that  cometh  to  God  must  believe  that  he  is,  and  that  he  is  a  re- 
warder  of  them  that  diligently  seek  him."  (Hebrews  11:6.) 

Therefore  an  individual  with  a  firm  desire  to  know  God  and 
his  purposes,  expressing  a  willingness  to  keep  his  commandments, 
can  be  a  recipient  of  that  divine  gift  called  faith. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  declared  that  faith  is  the  moving 
cause  of  all  action.  It  is  that  great  stimulating  force  which  brings 
into  fruition  the  plans  and  the  desires  of  mankind.  The  genius  of 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  ancient  days,  and  in  the 
restored  gospel  of  this  day,  demands  a  program  not  only  which 
requires  faith  but  also  works  on  the  part  of  the  individual  who  has 
for  an  objective  salvation  and  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

We  are  told  that  the  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  that  no  man 
can  be  saved  in  ignorance.  Therefore,  if  we  are  to  gain  the  intelli- 
gence and  the  knowledge  that  is  necessary  for  a  place  in  the  ce- 
lestial kingdom,  it  will  only  come  about  by  mental  and  spiritual 
effort  and  works. 

The  Privilege  of  Work 

God,  in  restoring  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  so  organized  it 
that  there  would  be  an  opportunity  for  each  and  every  worthy 
member  to  have  the  privilege  of  work.  The  restoration  of  the  priest- 
hood is  an  evidence  of  this.  Priesthood  is  the  power  of  God  given 
unto  men  whereby  they  may  act  as  his  representatives  upon  the 
earth  and  fill  certain  assignments  when  called  upon  by  those  who 
preside  over  them. 

Hence,  with  this  authority  upon  both  the  older  men  and  the 
young  men,  there  is  an  opportunity  for  service,  for  the  accomplish- 
ment of  great  work;  for  example,  we  think  of  the  missionary  work, 
wherein  are  involved  thousands  of  men  and  women,  both  young 
and  old,  who  are  out  in  the  world  preaching  the  gospel  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  people. 

The  same  is  equally  true  of  the  great  project  of  teaching  the 
people  at  home  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  call  it 
"ward  teaching."  If  ward  teaching  were  done  as  it  should  be,  it 
would  require  the  services  of  every  worthy  member  of  the  priest- 
hood in  the  Church. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


37 


Genealogical  Work 

If  there  are  any  of  us  who  are  seeking  to  do  the  work  of  the 
Lord  and  feel  that  we  do  not  have  an  opportunity,  all  that  we  have 
to  do,  brothers  and  sisters,  is  to  become  engaged  in  the  genealogical 
work  of  the  Church.  I  am  sure  those  who  have  been  touched  by 
the  spirit  of  Elijah,  and  had  their  hearts  turned  to  their  fathers, 
have  gone  into  this  work  with  eagerness  and  a  desire  to  see  that 
the  work  is  going  to  be  done  or  has  been  done  or  will  be  done  for 
those  who  have  not  had  the  privilege  in  this  life  of  hearing  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

The  other  day  while  visiting  the  St.  George  Stake,  I  was  in- 
troduced to  an  elderly  brother  who  is  ninety  years  of  age,  and  I 
was  told  that  he  had  done  the  work  for  ten  thousand  people.  What 
an  achievement!  What  an  accomplishment!  I  could  not  help 
thinking  that  when  that  brother  passes  through  the  veil  and  meets 
these  thousands  of  people,  they  will  rise  up  and  call  him  blessed. 
This  is  an  example  of  faith  and  works  together,  for  the  benefit  and 
blessing  of  thousands  of  people. 

Opportunities  for  Service 

It  is  not  only  intended  in  this  great  organization  of  faith  and 
works  that  all  of  the  work  is  to  be  done  by  the  priesthood,  but  that 
our  sisters  shall  have  opportunities  of  service  which  are  found  in 
the  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church,  teaching  the  children 
and  in  rendering  assistance  to  those  who  are  in  distress  of  any 
kind. 

Consider  for  a  moment  if  you  will  a  ward  organization  in  its 
requirements  of  personnel  with  the  presiding  authorities  of  the 
ward,  the  officers  of  all  the  auxiliaries,  and  the  ward  teachers. 
Opportunities  for  work  in  the  kingdom  are  immediately  available 
for  at  least  two  hundred  members,  while  in  the  churches  of  the 
world,  only  one  or  two  people  would  have  this  opportunity. 

The  work  of  which  James  spoke  in  connection  with  faith  is 
divided  into  two  divisions;  that  which  has  to  do  with  the  spiritual 
and  that  which  has  to  do  with  the  temporal  works.  In  illustrating 
the  point  of  temporal  works,  Brigham  Young  declared: 

Everything  connected  with  the  building  up  of  Zion  requires  actual, 
severe  labor.  It  is  nonsense  to  talk  about  building  up  any  kingdom  ex- 
cept by  labor;  it  requires  the  labor  of  every  part  of  our  organizations, 
whether  it  be  mental,  physical,  or  spiritual,  and  that  is  the  only  way  to 
build  up  the  kingdom  of  God.  ...  If  we  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God,  or 
establish  Zion  upon  the  earth,  we  have  to  labor  with  our  hands,  plan  with 
our  minds,  and  devise  ways  and  means  to  accomplish  that  object. 
(Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  1943  ed.,  p.  291.) 

Welfare  Program 
One  of  the  great  temporal  works  of  the  Church  is  found  in  the 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

welfare  program.  It  affords  an  opportunity  for  all  to  participate, 
from  the  young  boy  or  girl  to  the  aged  man  or  woman  who  is 
physically  fit.  It  requires  much  physical  labor,  but  out  of  our 
physical  effort  comes  a  spiritual  blessing — a  spiritual  blessing 
wherein,  brethren  and  sisters  we  keep  part  of  the  first  and  great 
commandment  to  "love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself."  If  we  actually 
love  our  neighbors  as  ourselves,  we  are  going  to  endeavor  to  do 
something  for  those  who  are  in  distress  of  any  kind. 

Construction  of  meetinghouses  demands  physical  effort  which 
in  reality  contributes  much  to  the  building  up  of  the  kingdom. 
There  has  never  been  a  time  in  our  history  as  a  Church  when  so 
many  meetinghouses  have  been  erected  as  in  the  last  five  or  six 
years,  and  the  most  inspiring  factor  in  this  great  project  of  build- 
ing is  that  members  of  the  various  wards  have  contributed  physically 
of  their  labor  as  well  as  having  made  financial  contributions. 

St.  George  Tabernacle 

Last  Sunday  it  was  my  privilege  to  attend  the  conference  of 
the  St.  George  Stake,  and  when  it  is  my  privilege  to  visit  the  city 
of  St.  George,  I  am  always  thrilled  and  inspired  as  I  admire  the 
beautiful  tabernacle  erected  almost  a  century  ago  by  the  pioneers. 
This  lovely  building  is  an  excellent  example  of  architectural  and 
structural  achievements.  Its  walls  are  just  as  straight  and  true 
today  as  the  day  that  the  pioneer  masons  laid  stone  upon  stone. 
Out  of  the  construction  of  this  lovely  building,  the  Lord  answered 
the  prayers  of  the  people,  and  his  blessings  were  abundantly  be- 
stowed upon  them  in  a  time  of  stress  and  difficulty.  When  President 
Brigham  Young  requested  the  people  to  erect  a  tabernacle,  some 
were  surprised  because  of  its  size  and  the  small  membership  which 
there  was  to  attend,  but  without  question  and  with  profound  confi- 
dence in  their  great  leader,  they  went  to  work. 

Finally,  when  the  roof  had  been  placed  upon  the  building,  and 
it  came  time  to  buy  the  windowpanes,  it  was  necessary  to  order 
them  in  New  York.  These  windowpanes  were  shipped  down  along 
the  east  coast  of  North  and  South  America  and  around  the  Horn, 
and  up  to  San  Francisco,  and  finally  transported  to  the  city  of 
Stockton. 

Upon  arrival  in  Stockton,  the  brethren  in  St.  George  were 
notified  that  the  windowpanes  were  there,  and  were  now  ready 
to  be  delivered  for  a  cash  consideration.  By  this  time  the  cash 
resources  of  the  people  had  been  exhausted  and  when  they  were 
asked  to  pay  for  the  windowpanes,  they  did  not  know  what  they 
were  going  to  do;  but  great  faith  was  manifest  by  the  leaders  of  the 
people,  which  impressed  them  to  call  upon  God  for  assistance. 
Thereafter,  preparations  were  made  to  make  the  trip  to  Stockton. 
Finally,  before  departure,  the  brethren  gathered  together  and  sup- 
plicated God  to  the  end  that  they  might  have  the  cash  with  which 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


39 


to  pay  for  the  windowpanes.  In  the  midst  of  their  supplication,  a 
knock  came  on  the  door.  It  was  opened,  and  an  old  Scandinavian 
brother  who  lived  in  the  Washington  Ward  just  north  of  St.  George 
placed  in  their  hands  a  bag  containing  between  six  hundred  and 
seven  hundred  dollars  which  was  enough  to  pay  for  the  window- 
panes. 

The  faith  of  these  brethren  was  so  great  that  their  teams  had 
been  hitched  up  and  they  were  ready  to  leave  immediately  after 
their  prayers,  which  is  an  evidence  of  the  profound  faith  which 
motivated  them  to  go  forward  with  their  building  program  even 
though  the  necessary  cash  was  not  in  sight,  and  hence,  the  St. 
George  Tabernacle  and  the  temple  stand  as  a  monument  to  the  faith 
and  works  of  these  great  pioneers. 

Faith  and  Works 

In  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  when  the  gospel  was 
being  restored,  the  Lord  declared  to  the  Prophet,  "I  will  pour  my 
Spirit  out  on  all  flesh."  (See  D.  &  C.  95:4.) 

The  outpouring  of  the  Lord's  Spirit  generated  in  the  hearts 
of  men  a  degree  of  faith  that  moved  them  to  great  works  which 
have  brought  manifold  blessings  to  humanity.  For  instance, 
Thomas  Edison  had  faith  so  great  in  the  utilization  of  electricity 
for  lighting  that  after  hours,  days,  and  months  of  work,  the  electric 
light  bulb  was  made  available  in  addition  to  many  other  electric 
appliances  which  have  brought  comfort  and  luxury  to  the  people. 

Another  outstanding  example  of  faith  and  works  is  the  Wright 
brothers  who  were  thought  to  be  mentally  weak  when  they  advo- 
cated the  idea  of  flying  through  the  air  with  a  contraption  heavier 
than  air  itself,  but  out  of  their  faith  and  their  works  there  has  now 
been  developed  one  of  the  greatest  methods  of  transportation  that 
the  world  has  ever  known.  Radio  and  television  have  come  as  the 
result  of  the  faith  and  the  works  of  their  inventors. 

Lincoln's  Faith 

There  were  great  souls  that  had  a  profound  faith  in  the  prin- 
ciples of  righteousness,  of  whom  Abraham  Lincoln  is  a  great  rep- 
resentative. As  a  young  man  he  visited  the  city  of  New  Orleans 
where  he  witnessed  the  sale  of  human  beings  over  the  auction  block. 
He  declared:  "If  I  ever  have  a  chance  to  strike  this  thing,  I  will 
strike  it  hard." 

His  faith  in  the  great  principle  of  freedom  motivated  him  to 
take  action  when  he  was  president  of  the  United  States.  He  struck 
slavery  hard,  and  the  shackles  were  removed  from  the  thousands 
and  thousands  of  oppressed  people  who  now  enjoy  their  liberty. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  in  my  soul  as  the  Apostle  Paul  felt 
when  he  declared,  "For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ: 
for  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  .  .  ."  (Romans  1:16.)  The 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

godly  power  Paul  speaks  of  is  the  combination  of  faith,  the  divine 
motivator,  and  the  works  of  the  individual.  These  together  make 
salvation  and  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God  a  certainty. 

Christianity  in  Action 

Some  few  days  ago  the  office  of  the  Presiding  Bishop  was 
visited  by  a  Hindu  doctor  from  India.  He  said  he  was  a  Christian. 
He  pointed  out  to  us  that  as  he  traveled  from  the  southern  boundary 
to  the  northern  boundary  of  the  state  of  Utah  noticing  the  many 
meetinghouses  that  had  been  erected,  he  was  convinced  that  he  was 
among  a  Christian  people.  And  after  becoming  conversant  with  the 
gospel  and  the  religion  of  our  people,  he  declared,  "This  is  Chris- 
tianity in  action."  Faith  and  the  works  of  the  gospel  constitute 
Christianity  in  action  as  Jesus  Christ  revealed  it  to  the  Prophet: 

Verily  I  say  unto  you  all:  Arise  and  shine  forth,  that  thy  light  may 
be  a  standard  for  the  nations.  (D.  &  C.  115:5.) 

If  our  light  is  to  be  a  standard  unto  the  nations,  then  well  might 
we  follow  the  admonition  of  James  when  he  said: 

Yea,  a  man  may  say,  Thou  hast  faith,  and  I  have  works;  shew  me 
thy  faith  without  thy  works,  and  I  will  shew  thee  my  faith  by  my  works. 
(James  2:18.) 

This  people  have  the  greatest  obligation  of  any  people  in  all 
the  world;  for  first  they  have  covenanted  with  God  their  Eternal 
Father  that  they  will  manifest  their  faith  and  their  works  in  the 
cause  of  his  beloved  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  the  world  seeing 
their  works  will  declare  as  Isaiah  of  old  declared:  Come  let  us  go  up 
to  the  house  of  Jacob's  God  and  learn  of  his  ways  and  walk  in  his 
paths  (See  Isaiah  2:3),  to  the  end  that  the  world  and  all  of  us  may 
be  free  of  the  pernicious  doctrine  that  men  can  be  saved  by  belief 
or  grace,  and  that  we  may  know  that  salvation  and  exaltation  in 
the  kingdom  of  God  rests  wholly  upon  faith  and  works,  which  I 
pray  will  be  the  blessing  of  all  of  us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  chorus  joined  with  the 
congregation  in  singing  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For 
a  Prophet." 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

And  when  thou  prayest,  thou  shalt  not  be  as  the  hypocrites  are:  for 
they  love  to  pray  standing  in  the  synagogues  and  in  the  corners  of  the 
streets,  that  they  may  be  seen  of  men.  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  They 
have  their  reward. 

But  thou,  when  thou  prayest,  enter  into  thy  closet,  and  when  thou 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


41 


hast  shut  thy  door,  pray  to  thy  Father  which  is  in  secret,  and  thy  Father 
which  seeth  in  secret  shall  reward  thee  openly. 

But  when  ye  pray,  use  not  vain  repetitions,  as  the  heathen  do;  for 
they  think  that  they  shall  be  heard  for  their  much  speaking. 

Be  not  ye  therefore  like  unto  them:  for  your  Father  knoweth  what 
things  ye  have  need  of,  before  ye  ask  him. 

After  this  manner  therefore  pray  ye:  Our  Father  which  art  in 
heaven,  Hallowed  be  thy  name. 

Thy  kingdom  come.    Thy  will  be  done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven. 

Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread. 

And  forgive  us  our  debts,  as  we  forgive  our  debtors.  (Matt.  6:5-12.) 

That  last  is  the  particular  passage  in  this  prayer  that  I  want 
to  call  attention  to.  If  we  have  learned  anything  through  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  conference  this  day,  it  is  that  this  gospel  is  not 
something  to  talk  about.  It  is  something  that  requires  deeds.  It 
calls  for  action,  and  it  is  only  what  we  do,  not  what  we  say  or 
what  we  profess,  that  counts. 

The  people  of  this  Church  can  carry  this  message  with  them 
to  their  homes  or  wherever  they  may  chance  to  go  and  lay  it  down 
as  the  foundation  principle  of  their  faith,  the  promise  of  the  future. 

Forgiveness 

It  is  only  as  we  do  the  will  of  God  that  we  have  claim 
upon  the  promised  blessings,  and  one  of  the  particular  things  that 
I  want  to  stress  is  the  principle  inherent  in  this  sentence  in  the 
sublime  prayer  which  I  have  just  read:  "Forgive  us  our  debts,  as  we 
forgive  our  debtors."  That  calls  for  action.  It  calls  for  self-control. 
It  calls  for  putting  into  practical  effect  one  of  the  teachings  that 
the  Lord  has  given  us. 

It  is  not  easy  to  practice.  We  are  all  disposed  to  be  very 
charitable  toward  ourselves  and  our  own  misdeeds,  our  own  fail- 
ures and  weaknesses.  We  hope  the  Lord  will  be  charitable  to 
us,  that  when  we  stand  before  the  bar  of  justice,  notwithstanding 
the  exactions  of  the  law  which  must  be  obeyed,  and  notwithstand- 
ing our  own  lapses,  he  who  knows  the  heart,  and  knows  the  de- 
sire, and  knows  the  effort,  and  consequently  being  possessed  of  all 
the  factors  essential  to  a  righteous  judgment,  will  somehow  be 
kind  and  generous  and  will  take  into  account  our  good  efforts,  our 
attempts  to  live  righteously,  the  piety  of  our  purposes,  the  struggles 
we  have  made  against  odds,  and  he  will  balance  all  these  worthy 
desires  of  the  heart  and  struggles  of  the  flesh  over  against  our 
failures,  and  the  things  wherein  we  have  sinned  and  failed  to  meas- 
ure up  to  the  full  standard  of  complete  perfection. 

We  all  hope  that  on  behalf  of  ourselves,  but  it  is  not  so  easy 
for  us  to  accord  the  same  generous  consideration  to  those  we  feel 
have  trespassed  against  us.  We  are  more  likely  to  be  disposed  to 
exact  the  full  payment  of  the  debt  to  us  personally,  while  hoping 
in  our  hearts  that  God  will  be  lenient  in  his  judgment  of  us. 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

Love  of  Neighbor 

I  think  there  is  involved  in  this  principle  the  doctrine  of  the 
first  great  commandment,  and  the  second,  "...  Thou  shalt  love 
thy  neighbour  as  thyself."  (Ibid.,  22:39.)  Those  are  easy  words 
to  say,  but  do  we  ponder  what  they  mean?  How  do  I  love  my- 
self? Certainly  I  do  not  wish  myself  any  ill  luck.  I  do  not  wish 
myself  any  misfortune.  I  hope  my  efforts  will  be  prospered.  I 
hope  I  will  be  spared  misery  and  distress  and  sickness  and  suffer- 
ing. I  hope  I  will  have  power  to  do  the  things  I  have  it  in  my  heart 
to  do,  and  to  succeed  in  my  undertakings.  If  I  love  my  neighbor 
as  I  love  myself,  then  I  must  be  equally  anxious  for  him,  that  he 
shall  be  prospered,  that  he  shall  escape  misery  and  suffering  and 
trial  and  distress,  that  his  endeavors  shall  be  fruitful  of  good. 

I  cannot  hope  to  climb  to  the  position  I  desire  to  achieve  by 
stepping  on  the  back  of  another  and  crushing  him  down  in  order 
that  I  may  gain  his  favorable  place.  Suppose  I  am  a  violinist.  I 
excel  in  my  profession,  my  art.  I  have  enjoyed  the  reputation  for  a 
long  time  of  occupying  first  place  among  the  members  of  my 
community.  I  am  the  greatest  of  them  all.  Then  one  day  a  young- 
er man  comes  along,  as  will  inevitably  be  the  case,  and  he  chances 
to  excel  me  in  the  art,  and  I  stand  in  jeopardy  of  losing  my  position 
as  first. 

I  suppose  I  should  wish  for  him  that  he  break  his  hand  so  that 
he  cannot  play  any  more,  and  so  that  I  will  not  be  toppled  from  the 
pinnacle  that  I  have  occupied,  and  can  still  be  supreme  in  the 
practice  of  my  art.  That  is  not  keeping  the  commandment.  That 
is  not  loving  my  neighbor  as  I  love  myself.  I  would  not  wish  my- 
self any  such  misfortune.  I  would  always  want  to  do  my  best, 
freed  from  artificial  hindrance.  I  should,  if  I  would  obey  the  com- 
mandment, without  regard  to  the  consequences  to  me  personally, 
my  own  ambitions  and  desires,  rejoice  in  the  excellence  of  the  per- 
formance of  my  rival,  and  wish  only  for  him  all  the  good  I  would 
wish  for  myself. 

I  will,  if  I  am  honestly  observing  the  commandment,  wish  for 
him  the  success,  the  glory  that  has  been  accorded  to  me  by  reason 
of  my  past  station.  It  is  easy  to  say  those  words,  "Love  your 
neighbor  as  yourself,"  but  how  hard  it  is  to  bring  them  right  down 
to  actual  practice,  even  when  our  own  superiority  of  position  might 
be  involved,  the  sacrifice  of  it.  If  we  really  could  bring  ourselves 
into  full  accord  with  that  commandment,  we  should  rejoice  exultant- 
ly in  the  good  fortunes  that  attend  the  efforts  of  our  fellows,  no 
matter  in  how  great  a  degree  they  might  eclipse  us  or  how  far  they 
might  excel  us.  You  see,  it  requires  that  we  root  out  envy,  that  we 
root  out  selfishness,  and  that  is  the  way  we  grow  in  the  develop- 
ment of  character  and  the  cultivation  of  those  perfections  which 
God  has  directed  that  we  strive  to  achieve. 

"Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heav- 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


43 


en  is  perfect."  (Ibid.,  5:48)  was  the  admonition  of  Jesus  and  if  we 
would  attain  that  station  and  bring  ourselves  to  that  degree  of  con- 
quest of  our  own  ambitions,  then  we  shall  have  to  rejoice  in  the 
good  fortune,  the  achievements,  the  attainments  of  our  fellow  men 
without  regard  to  the  eclipse  of  ourselves. 

Forgive  and  Be  Forgiven 

Returning  to  the  text,  we  cannot  expect  that  God  will  forgive  us 
if  we  refuse  to  forgive  those  whom  we  have  found  occasion  to 
criticize.  The  measure  of  man's  achievement  lies  not  altogether  in 
where  he  gets  to.  You  have  to  have  regard  for  the  place  which 
he  started  from,  and  the  degree  of  his  advancement,  though  he  has 
not  reached  so  high  a  place  as  one  of  his  fellows,  may  be  greater 
because  of  the  handicap  of  position  from  which  he  set  out. 

We  all  hope  and  trust  and  pray  and  depend  upon  the  mercy 
of  God.  We  hope  he  will  be  merciful  to  us,  but  we  have  no  right 
to  expect  the  extension  of  his  mercy  to  us  in  any  further  degree  than 
we  are  willing  to  extend  mercy  and  charity  and  forgiveness  to  our 
fellow  men,  whose  actions  we  scrutinize  with  much  more  care  and 
less  leniency  than  we  scrutinize  ourselves  and  our  own  deeds. 

Doers  of  the  Word 

Those  are  some  of  the  things  we  have  to  learn  to  do.  That  is 
putting  into  practical  application  some  of  the  positive  requirements 
of  this  gospel.  We  are  learning  to  do,  to  be  doers  of  the  Word  and 
not  hearers  only.  So  it  is  with  every  other  precept.  There  is  no 
teaching  in  the  whole  compass  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that 
ever  brought  injury  or  harm  to  any  man. 

The  following  of  those  brings  only  happiness  and  joy  and 
peace  and  comfort  and  progress.  There  has  never  been  anything 
required  of  man  that  would  degrade  him  or  lower  him  in  the  scale 
of  being.   We  are  safe  when  we  keep  the  commandments. 

But  we  must  analyze  the  commandments.  We  must  know 
what  they  signify.  We  must  know  what  they  require  of  us  in- 
dividually and  personally,  and  our  greatest  concern  is  not  with 
somebody  else.  Our  greatest  concern  is  with  us.  Are  we  measur- 
ing up? 

May  God  grant  that  in  our  daily  pursuits,  in  our  daily  efforts, 
we  shall  always  be  mindful  of  the  fact  that  it  is  not  what  we  profess 
or  what  we  pretend,  but  only  that  which  we  do  and  the  degree  in 
which  we  comply  in  our  own  actions  with  the  commandments  of 
God  that  counts. 

This  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  next  hear  from  Elder  James  L.  Barker,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  French  Mission. 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

I  believe  we  have  in  the  audience  Brother  Henry  Aki  who  was 
in  the  presidency  of  the  Chinese  Mission,  recently  established  at 
Hong  Kong.  We  will  give  Brother  Aki  and  Brother  Barker  twenty 
minutes,  ten  minutes  each. 


ELDER  JAMES  L.  BARKER 

Formerly  president  of  the  French  Mission 

It  is  now  nearly  eighteen  months  since  Sister  Barker  and  I  left 
the  French  Mission.  I  hope,  however,  to  be  able  to  give  a  brief  re- 
port of  the  French  Mission  not  only  while  we  were  there  but  since 
we  came  back,  the  last  eighteen  months  while  President  and  Sister 
Woolf  have  been  conducting  the  mission.  The  French  Mission  is 
one  of  the  great  missions  of  the  Church.  There  is  no  finer  people 
to  which  we  carry  the  Gospel.  Most  of  us  of  Germanic  stock  are 
favorably  disposed  to  nations  of  northern  Europe,  Germany,  Switzer- 
land, and  so  on,  but  perhaps  we  are  not  aware  that  at  least  fifty 
per  cent  of  the  population  of  Northeastern  France  was  Germanic  in 
the  first  centuries  of  the  Christian  Era,  and  we  should  remember  too 
that  there  are  many  other  nations  in  Europe,  and  among  these  many 
nations  are  France  and  Spain  and  Italy  and  Greece. 

The  French  Mission  has  had  a  difficult  history.  Work  there 
has  been  interrupted  and  has  ceased  completely  over  long  periods 
of  time.  With  the  exception  of  one  city  in  Northeastern  France, 
from  1863  until  1910  there  was  not  a  single  missionary  in  France. 
When  Sister  Barker  and  I  arrived  in  France  in  1946  we  found  in 
Switzerland  well  organized  branches  presided  over  and  admirably 
conducted  by  President  Simond  and  his  branch  presidents.  We 
found  in  Belgium  President  Devigny  conducting  well  organized 
branches.  I  rejoiced  as  I  heard  the  story  of  how  faithfully  they  had 
attended  to  their  duties.  Even  while  directed  missiles  were  falling 
not  very  far  from  the  house  of  President  Devigny,  they  held  their 
meetings.  They  did  their  work.  Each  one  of  our  three  chapels  was 
seriously  damaged  by  guided  missiles. 

In  France  the  story  was  not  so  favorable.  Our  first  work  was  to 
find  the  members.  There  was  only  one  man  Elder  Fargier  in  all 
France  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  and  the  members  said 
they  had  had  visits  from  missionaries  but  usually  fifteen  and  twenty 
years  before. 

I  am  glad  to  say  this  to  the  fathers  and  mothers  who  have  mis- 
sionaries in  France,  there  is  no  more  kind-hearted  people,  no  more 
sympathetic  people,  no  more  self-sacrificing  people  for  the  mission- 
aries. I  wish  I  could  tell  you  of  the  lives  of  some  of  our  members, 
faithful  over  long  periods  of  time  without  any  visit  from  missionaries 
whatsoever  and  no  contact  with  the  Church.  I  have  even  thought 
how  strange  it  is  and  how  wonderful  it  is  that  our  missionaries  have 
such  influence  with  the  people,  and  yet  it  is  not  altogether  strange. 


* 


ELDER  JAMES  L.  BARKER 


45 


The  men  opposed  to  them  are  often  very  scholarly,  but  all  that  schol- 
arship can  do  is  to  enable  them  to  guess  what  kind  of  experience 
Peter  had  when  he  said,  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living 
God."  What  was  that  revelation  from  on  High?  What  kind  of 
experience  did  Paul  have  when  he  was  guided  by  the  Spirit?  And 
the  faithful  missionaries  have  similar  experiences  first-hand.  It  is  a 
great  joy  to  be  in  a  testimony  meeting  with  them  and  the  lady  mis- 
sionaries, who  were  in  no  way  inferior  to  the  elders. 

The  mission  has  gradually  increased  in  the  number  of  converts 
and  it  has  increased  very,  very  much  since  Sister  Barker  and  I  left 
the  mission.  This  year,  returning  missionaries  and  elders  tell  me 
that  the  estimate  of  the  number  of  converts  in  the  mission  will  be 
somewhere  between  100  and  150.  When  you  think  of  the  difficulties 
of  language,  when  you  think  of  other  difficulties,  I  think  that  is  most 
encouraging.  The  missionaries  of  the  French  Mission,  I  think,  nearly 
all  long  for  the  time  when  they  can  go  back  on  another  mission,  and 
it  is  astounding  how  eager  audiences  are  to  listen  to  the  Gospel.  You 
probably  would  expect  the  greatest  number  of  converts  and  the 
greatest  interest  in  Northeastern  France  where  the  Germanic  blood, 
perhaps  is  in  a  larger  percentage  than  elsewhere,  but  the  greatest 
interest  in  the  Gospel  and  the  greatest  number  of  converts  is  in 
Southeastern  France.  There  we  have  had  meetings  attended  by  as 
high  as  400  people.  A  year  and  a  half  ago  there  were  some  3  or  4 
members.  Six  months  before  that  there  were  none,  and  no  friends. 
Now  there  are  20  members  and  meetings  are  being  attended  by  100 
to  125  in  a  meeting. 

The  government  of  France  has  been  friendly,  of  course  we  have 
had  some  opposition,  of  course  we  had  a  few  connected  with  the 
government  who  were  not  friendly,  but  by  and  large  they  have  been 
very  friendly.  We  frequently  had  halls  that  cost  us  nothing.  In 
Bordeaux  and  other  cities  of  Western  France  we  have  been  able  to 
get  a  large  hall  in  the  City  Hall  with  no  cost  to  us,  not  even  the 
janitorial  services,  and  they  have  treated  us  well. 

My  time  I  think  of  ten  minutes  is  up.  I  would  like  to  say 
this  before  sitting  down,  however,  I  know  that  the  first  vision  was  a 
reality,  our  missionaries  know  it,  that  it  was  a  reality,  that  we  are  en- 
gaged, second  only  to  living  the  Gospel,  in  the  next  greatest  work 
possible  on  the  earth,  carrying  that  Gospel  to  our  fellows.  He  is 
happy  who  has  had  one  mission;  he  is  happier  who  has  had  two,  and 
I  feel  positive  that  he  would  be  Jiappier  who  had  four.  This  is  a 
great  work  and  in  France  it  is  going  to  grow  faster  and  faster  be- 
cause now  we  have  a  large  body  of  converts,  relatively  from  France, 
Switzerland  and  Belgium.  They  are  writing  to  friends  and  acquaint- 
ances, they  are  dispelling  false  stories  about  us,  they  are  explaining 
the  truths  of  the  Gospel,  and  I  pray  that  there  may  be  as  few  as 
possible  among  us  without  sometime  having  had  the  experience  of 
a  mission.  I  sincerely  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  on  the  world, 
that  peace  may  be  restored  (we  now  have  war)  and  that  no  further 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  5  First  Day 

wars  will  break  out,  that  the  Gospel  may  be  carried  to  the  rest  of  the 
world  and  in  particular  to  Spain,  to  Italy,  to  Greece,  to  the  Mediter- 
ranean countries,  countries  that  were  once  the  only  ones  where  mis- 
sionaries worked  in  the  propagation  of  the  Gospel  and  wherein  were 
the  early  centers  of  the  Christian  Church.  I  pray  this  and  I  pray 
the  Lord  to  bless  our  inspired  leadership  that  we  may  all  give  our  full 
undivided  loyalty  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKays 

Elder  James  L.  Barker,  to  whom  we  have  just  listened,  was 
formerly  president  of  the  French  Mission.  Brother  Henry  Aki,  who 
will  now  speak  to  us,  was  in  the  presidency  of  the  Chinese  Mission. 

ELDER  HENRY  AKI 

Formerly  in  the  presidency  of  the  Chinese  Mission 

Aloha!  I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  saints  of  Oahu,  my 
brothers  and  sisters.  I  stand  before  you  with  fear  and  trembling. 
I  trust  that  I  may  have  the  spirit  of  our  Father  in  Heaven  that  has 
existed  here  since  the  beginning  of  our  conference.  I  thank  our 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege  of  attending  this  conference  and  of 
meeting  with  you,  my  good  brothers  and  sisters,  who  have  brought 
the  Gospel  to  the  islands  of  Hawaii  where  I  had  the  privilege  of 
joining  this  great  and  glorious  Church. 

On  February  28th,  1949,  along  about  9  o'clock  in  the  morning 
while  laboring  in  my  establishment  in  Honolulu,  the  telephone  rang. 
I  lifted  up  the  receiver  and  I  heard  an  operator  from  San  Francisco 
calling  for  Aki.  The  people  in  San  Francisco  could  not  pronounce 
my  name  Aki,  so  she  had  to  spell  it.   "Are  you  Aki?"  she  said. 

"Yes,  this  is  Aki  speaking." 

"Just  a  minute,  Salt  Lake  City,  Mr.  David  O.  McKay  wants  to 
talk  to  you." 

Within  a  second  we  got  the  connection  and  President  McKay 
said:  "Brother  Aki  this  is  David  O.  McKay.  You  know  Hilton  A. 
Robertson,  formerly  of  the  Japanese  Mission?" 

I  said,  "Yes,  very  well." 

"Fine.  The  brethren  have  decided  to  open  a  mission  in  China. 
Will  you  accept  the  call  to  be  his  counselor?" 

Without  any  hesitation  I  saidj  "Yes,  Brother  McKay." 

I  accepted  the  call  without  consulting  my  wife  whether  I  would 
be  able  to  accept  it.  Finally  I  called  back  home  to  my  wife,  saying  I 
had  received  a  call  from  President  McKay  asking  us  to  go  on  a  mis- 
sion to  China. 

"Fine,"  she  said. 

I  said:  "I  will  talk  to  you  further  when  I  get  home." 

I  went  home  and  my  wife  said:  "We  will  go." 

I  am  thankful  that  I  had  the  privilege.    The  only  thing  I  regret 


ELDER  HENRY  AKI 


47 


is  that  we  had  to  fold  up  the  mission  and  return  home  to  Honolulu. 
That  is  the  only  regret  in  my  heart.  My  desire  was  to  fulfill  an 
honorable  mission,  that  we  could  have  a  mission  home  there,  a  church 
building,  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  one  hundred  and  fifty  millions 
of  people  in  China,  probably  more.  We  love  them.  When  we  were 
up  to  the  Peak  of  Hong  Kong  we  could  look  on  the  other  side 
to  China  proper  ( and  on  this  side  we  could  look  into  the  Hong  Kong 
Bay ) .  We  went  there  with  Brother  Cowley  to  dedicate  the  land  for 
the  opening  of  the  mission.  While  we  were  there  Brother  Cowley 
called  each  one  of  us  to  take  turn  in  praying  and  I  shed  tears  facing 
my  ancestors,  my  great-grandfather  and  my  forefathers,  that  I,  the 
only  one  having  the  privilege  to  hold  the  Priesthood,  had  come  up 
to  the  land  of  China,  to  spread  this  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  among  the 
people. 

I  rejoice  in  that  work  and  I  thank  our  Heavenly  Father  for  the 
privilege  I  had.  I  appreciate  the  Priesthood  of  God.  It  is  precious 
to  me.  I  want  to  tell  you,  in  bearing  my  testimony,  that  I  want  to 
thank  my  father-in-law,  my  wife  and  their  family  who  prayed 
earnestly  for  me  that  I  might  become  a  member  of  this  Church.  For 
ten  years  we  were  married  and  I  was  not  a  member  of  the  Church. 
My  wife  had  to  steal  away  out  of  the  house  to  go  and  perform  her 
Church  duties,  to  teach  Primary  and  to  go  to  the  Relief  Society,  and 
then  she  had  to  watch  the  time  and  come  home  before  I  got  home 
from  work.  Those  are  the  conditions  that  prevailed  for  the  first  ten 
years  of  our  married  life.  Oftentimes  I  heard  my  mother-in-law  in 
devotion  and  they  asked  me  to  join  with  them.  All  the  time  I  stared 
at  them.  I  oftentimes  heard  my  mother-in-law  pray  to  our  Heavenly 
Father  to  soften  the  heart  of  her  son-in-law  that  some  day  his  heart 
would  be  touched  and  he  would  become  a  member  of  this  Faith.  There 
was  a  big  tract  of  land  opened  near  the  Auwaiolima  Church.  Some  of 
you  returned  missionaries  know  where  the  Auwaiolima  Church  is. 
There  were  choice  lots  facing  the  main  street  and  the  school  street, 
and  I  decided  to  buy  a  lot  on  one  of  those  main  streets  and  I  purpose- 
ly bought  a  lot  just  below  the  Church,  with  the  idea,  well,  if  I  build 
my  home  here  my  children  would  be  growing  up,  saving  carfare  to 
Primary  and  Sunday  School.  My  wife  can  go  to  Relief  Society  and 
teach  in  the  Primary,  so  I  can  save  a  little  money  in  carfare.  So  I 
bought  a  lot  just  near  the  Auwaiolima  Church  and  when  we  got  our 
house  half-way  built  I  asked  my  wife  if  I  could  be  baptized  in  her 
Church  and  she  asked  me,  "Really  do  you  want  to  join  the  Church?" 
I  said,  "Yes."  She  went  up  to  the  Mission  Home  and  made  arrange- 
ments with  the  branch  president,  Ernest  L.  Miner,  and  Brother  Miner 
was  surprised  to  learn  that  I  had  made  up  my  mind  to  be  baptized. 
He  turned  around  and  called  my  wife  and  said,  "You  have  been  faith- 
ful and  the  Lord  has  answered  your  prayers.  All  these  years,  in 
presiding  over  this  branch  I  could  not  touch  your  house  with  a  fifty 
foot  pole."  (Laughter)  So  really  the  Lord  has  moved  things  in  a 
mysterious  way  His  wonders  to  perform. 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  5  First  Day 

I  rejoice  to  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I 
am  really  glad  and  thankful  that  I  had  the  privilege  of  accepting  the 
Gospel,  it  has  made  me  a  good  husband,  a  good  businessman  whereby 
I  can  face  my  fellowmen,  my  creditors  and  my  associates.  Through 
that,  my  name  has  been  spread  abroad.  Some  of  my  friends  have 
joined  the  Church.  Some  of  my  friends  saw  me  going  into  the  chapel 
and  the  following  day  they  wanted  to  know  what  I  was  doing  in 
the  Mormon  Church.  I  said,  "I  am  a  member  of  that  Church." 
They  said,  "Are  you?  I  am  surprised.  If  I  knew  you  had  determined 
to  join  any  church  I  would  have  asked  you  to  join  the  Central  Union 
Church,"  which  is  a  Protestant  church  in  Honolulu,  "so  if  you  need 
any  help,  if  you  go  to  the  bank,  people  will  give  you  an  extended 
hand."  That  is  the  answer  I  got,  and  finally  after  that  I  became 
loosed  from  all  my  friends  and  associates  just  because  I  joined  the 
Church. 

It  is  up  to  me  to  let  the  Gospel  light  so  shine  that  others  may 
see  my  good  works  and  glorify  our  Father  which  is  in  Heaven.  From 
that  time  on  I  have  tried  my  best  to  live  up  to  the  teachings  of  the 
Gospel  and  to  have  the  whole  world  look  up  to  me.  When  I  got  my 
call  to  go  to  China  they  had  my  picture  in  the  Honolulu  paper. 

My  time  is  up.  I  hope  and  pray  that  we  as  Latter-day  Saints 
will  live  the  Gospel  and  that  we  will  let  our  lights  so  shine  before 
men  that  others  seeing  our  good  works  will  be  led  to  glorify  our 
Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

President  McKay  will  please  forgive  me  if  I  have  gone  beyond 
my  alloted  time.  I  ask  the  Lord's  blessings  upon  you.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  will  now  sing:  "Like  as 
the  Hart  Desireth  the  Water  Brooks,"  conducted  by  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  A.  Lorenzo  Ander- 
son, formerly  president  of  the  Mexican  Mission,  after  which  this 
conference  will  stand  adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 

Tonight  at  seven  o'clock  here  in  the  Tabernacle  there  will  be  a 
meeting  of  ward  bishoprics  and  others  as  listed  in  the  public  an- 
nouncement, under  the  direction  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Important  messages  and  calls  coming  to  us  for  persons  supposed 
to  be  in  attendance  at  the  conference  will  be  announced  at  the  dis- 
missal of  the  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the  Re- 
lief Society  Singing  Mothers,  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conduct- 
ing, and  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

May  we  just  take  a  minute  again  to  commend  these  charming 
mothers.  Their  presence,  I  repeat,  and  their  singing  have  been  an  in- 
spiration. Sister  Madsen,  thank  you.  I  know  I  express  the  prayer 
of  all  present  when  I  say,  "God  bless  our  mothers." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


49 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang  "Like  as  the  Hart 
Desireth  the  Water  Brooks." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  A.  Lorenzo  Anderson. 
Conference  adjourned  until  10:00  a.m.,  Saturday,  October  6. 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  6,  at  10:00. 
President  David  O.  McKay  conducted  the  services  and  made  the 
following  introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKayj 

For  the  information  of  the  radio  and  television  audience  we 
announce  that  this  is  the  third  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty- 
second  Semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

These  services  and  all  general  sessions  of  the  conference  will 
be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system  and  by  television.  The  proceedings  of  this  session 
will  be  broadcast  over  Station  KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  ar- 
rangement through  KSL  over  the  stations  named  in  the  first  session 
of  the  conference. 

This  session  will  be  televised  over  KSL  television  station,  chan- 
nel 5. 

The  singing  will  be  by  the  congregation,  Brother  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting,  and  Brother  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  the  services  by  the  congregation  singing:  "Now 
Let  Us  Rejoice,"  conducted  by  Brother  Cornwall. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Arnold  D.  Miller, 
formerly  Patriarch  to  the  North  Davis  Stake. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice  in  the 
Day  of  Salvation." 

Elder  Arnold  D.  Miller,  Patriarch  of  the  North  Davis  Stake, 
offered  the  invocation. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "How  Firm  A  Foundation." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  the  fol- 
lowing report  of  changes: 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6 


Second  Day 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS 
SINCE  APRIL  CONFERENCE,  1951 

Mission  Changes  and  New  Presidents  Appointed: 

J.  Melvin  Toone  appointed  president  of  Canadian  Mission  to 
succeed  Floyed  G.  Eyre. 

Arthur  A.  Glaus  appointed  president  of  East  German  Mission  to 
succeed  Walter  Stover. 

Sidney  J.  Ottley  appointed  president  of  New  Zealand  Mission 
to  succeed  Gordon  C.  Young. 

Lyman  S.  Shreeve  appointed  president  of  Uruguayan  Mission 
to  succeed  Frederick  S.  Williams. 

Bryan  L.  Bunker  to  succeed  David  I.  Stoddard  as  president  of 
the  California  Mission. 

Franklin  S.  Harris  appointed  president  of  Branch  in  Teheran, 

Iran. 

New  Stakes  Organized: 

Bakersfield  Stake  organized  May  27,  1951,  from  Northern 
California  and  California  Missions. 

Fresno  Stake  organized  May  20,  1951,  from  Northern  Cali- 
fornia Mission. 

Monument  Park  Stake  organized  June  24,  1951,  from  Hillside 
and  Bonneville  Stakes. 

Santa  Monica  Stake  organized  July  1,  1951,  from  Inglewood 
Stake. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen: 

Edwin  Alan  Pettit,  president  of  Bakersfield  Stake. 

Junius  M.  Jackson,  president  of  Bonneville  Stake  to  succeed 
Owen  G.  Reichman. 

Alwyn  C.  Sessions,  president  of  Fresno  Stake. 

William  Jackson  O'Bryant,  president  of  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  to 
succeed  William  Grant  Ovard. 

Austin  Gudmundsen,  president  of  Inglewood  Stake  to  succeed 
E.  Garrett  Barlow. 

George  L.  Nelson,  president  of  Monument  Park  Stake. 

Wendell  S.  Lambert,  president  of  Nevada  Stake  to  succeed 
Fredrick  Charles  Horlacher. 

William  Carlyle  Olsen,  president  of  North  Sanpete  Stake  to. 
succeed  Joseph  R.  Bagnall. 

Edward  L.  Clissold,  president  of  Oahu  Stake  to  succeed  Ralph 
E.  Woolley. 

E.  Garrett  Barlow,  president  of  Santa  Monica  Stake. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS  51 


John  Fredrick  Hobson,  president  of  Summit  Stake  to  succeed 
Joseph  E.  Beard. 

Royal  J.  Brinkerhoff,  president  of  Wayne  Stake,  to  succeed 
Willis  J.  Oldroyd. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Bakersfleld  First,  Second,  and  Third,  Lancaster,  Porterville,  and 
Taft  Wards,  Bakersfleld  Stake. 

Farmington  Second  Ward,  Davis  Stake. 

Logan  Nineteenth  Ward,  East  Cache  Stake. 

Montebello  Second  and  Whittier  Second  Wards,  East  Los 
Angeles  Stake. 

Canyon  Rim  Ward,  East  Mill  Creek  Stake. 

Provo  Fifteenth  Ward,  East  Provo  Stake. 

Chowchilla,  Fresno  First,  Fresno  Second,  Merced,  and  Visalia 
Wards,  Fresno  Stake. 

Spring  Glen  and  Wandamere  Park  Wards,  Grant  Stake. 

Lawndale  Ward,  Inglewood  Stake. 

Long  Beach  Sixth  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake. 

Mill  Creek  Third  Ward,  Mill  Creek  Stake. 

Sandy  Fourth  Ward,  Mt.  Jordan  Stake. 

Uniondale  Ward,  New  York  Stake. 

Mt.  Pleasant  First  and  Third  Wards,  North  Sanpete  Stake. 

Castro  Valley  Ward,  Oakland  Stake. 

Glendale  Park  Second  Ward,  Pioneer  Stake. 

Mt.  Rose  and  Sparks  East  Wards,  Reno  Stake. 

Fair  Oaks  Ward,  Sacramento  Stake. 

Tacoma  Third  Ward,  Seattle  Stake. 

Tremonton  Fourth  Ward,  South  Bear  River  Stake. 

Maeser  Second  Ward,  Uintah  Stake. 

Rivergrove  Second  Ward,  West  Utah  Stake. 

Wards  Transferred: 

Beacon,  Hillside,  Laurelcrest,  and  Monument  Park  Wards, 
Monument  Park  Stake,  formerly  of  Hillside  and  Bonneville  Stakes. 

Brentwood,  LaCienega,  Mar  Vista,  Santa  Monica,  and  West- 
dale  Wards,  Santa  Monica  Stake,  formerly  of  Inglewood  Stake. 

Ward  Name  Changed: 

Montebello  First  Ward,  East  Los  Angeles  Stake,  formerly 
Montebello  Ward. 

Whittier  First  Ward,  East  Los  Angeles  Stake,  formerly  Whit- 
tier Ward. 

Mt.  Pleasant  Second  Ward,  North  Sanpete  Stake,  formerly 
Mt.  Pleasant  South  Ward. 

Mt.  Pleasant  Fourth  Ward,  North  Sanpete  Stake,  formerly 
Mt.  Pleasant  North  Ward. 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

Glendale  Park  First  Ward,  Pioneer  Stake,  formerly  Glendale 
Park  Ward. 

Sparks  West  Ward,  Reno  Stake,  formerly  Sparks  Ward. 
Stockton  First  Ward,  San  Joaquin  Stake,  formerly  Stockton 
Ward. 

Stockton  Second  Ward,  San  Joaquin  Stake,  formerly  Yose- 
mite  Ward. 

Lincoln  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  formerly  Tacoma  Second  Ward. 
Tacoma  First  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  formerly  Tacoma  Central 
Ward. 

Maeser  First  Ward,  Uintah  Stake,  formerly  Maeser  Ward. 

Wards  Discontinued: 

Arbon  Ward,  West  Pocatello  Stake,  disorganized,  membership 
transfered  to  other  wards. 

Independent  Branches  Organized: 

Delano,  Mojave,  and  Wasco  Branches,  Bakersfield  Stake. 
Boulder  Branch,  Denver  Stake. 

Avenal,  Coalinga,  Dinuba,  Exeter,  Hansford,  Los  Banos,  Tulare, 
and  West  Fresno  Branches,  Fresno  Stake. 
Sunland  Branch,  Glendale  Stake. 
Pinedale  and  Rawlins  Branches,  Lyman  Stake. 
Piute  Branch,  Millard  Stake. 
Livermore  Branch,  Oakland  Stake. 
Carson  City  Branch,  Reno  Stake. 
Mira  Loma  Branch,  San  Bernardino  Stake. 
Chula  Vista  Branch,  San  Diego  Stake. 
Monte  Vista  Branch,  San  Luis  Stake. 
Woodland  Hills  Branch,  San  Fernando  Stake. 
Shelton  Branch,  Seattle  Stake. 
Dugway  Branch,  Tooele  Stake. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away: 

Emma  Lucy  Gates  Bowen,  wife  of  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Augusta  Winters  Grant,  widow  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant. 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  president  of  the  General  Board  of  the 
Primary  Association. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  has  just  read  the 
report  of  statistics  and  other  data  relating  to  the  Church. 

We  shall  now  ask  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the  Quorum 
of  the  First  Presidency  to  present  the  General  Authorities,  General 


SUSTAINING  OF  CHURCH  AUTHORITIES  53 


Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  for  the  sus- 
taining vote  of  this  General  Conference. 

Immediately  following  President  Clark's  presentation  he  will 
speak  to  us. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency  then  presented  in  the  usual  manner  the  General  Au- 
thorities and  General  Officers  of  the  Church  and  they  were  unani- 
mously sustained  by  those  present.  The  list  as  presented  is  as 
follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 
The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Matthew  Cowley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Harold  B.  Lee  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Marion  G.  Romney 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Thomas  E.  McKay  George  Q.  Morris 

Clifford  E.  Young  Stayner  Richards 

Alma  Sonne  EIRay  L.  Christiansen 

John  Longden 

Tru  stee-i  n-Trust 

David  O.  McKay 
As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,   October  6 


Second  Day 


The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Richard  L.  Evans  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Bruce  R.  McConkie 


Presiding  Bishopric 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  First  Counselor 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

Stephen  L  Richards  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Matthew  Cowley 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Harold  B.  Lee  Franklin  L.  West 

Commissioner  of  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisors 

J.  Karl  Wood 
Joy  F.  Dunyon 

Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 


Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 


Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner  Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 


SUSTAINING  OF  CHURCH  AUTHORITIES  55 


CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Clifford  E.  Young 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Alma  Sonne 

Harold  B.  Lee  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Henry  D.  Moyle  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Matthew  Cowley  LeGrand  Richards 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Marion  G.  Romney  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Thomas  E.  McKay 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 

Paul  C.  Child  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

T.  C.  Stayner  John  Longden 

Mark  B.  Garff  Walter  Dansie 

Leonard  E.  Adams  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

J.  Leonard  Love  A.  Reed  Halversen 

W.  T.  Lawrence  Henry  C.  Jorgensen 
Carl  W.  Buehner 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  N.  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Hamer  Reiser,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 


Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 

A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 

David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6 


Second  Dau 


Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Velma  N.  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Florence  H.  Richards,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  stand  before  you  this  morning  to 
make  a  few  remarks  with  a  hope  in  my  heart  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  me  and  direct  me  in  what  I  shall  say  and  that  I  may  be  aided 
by  your  faith  and  prayers.  With  those  prayers  coming  to  me  in  my 
behalf,  I  shall  be  blessed,  and  you  also. 

Absence  Noted 

I  think  I  would  like  to  begin  by  noting  the  absence  of  a  man 
who  was  with  us  for  forty-seven  years  as  an  Apostle,  as  President 
of  the  Quorum,  and  as  President  of  the  Church;  a  man  who  had 
as  great  love  for  his  fellow  men  as  any  man  I  have  ever  met;  a  man 
who  left  with  us,  or  left  with  me,  two  great  sayings — "We  are  all 
children  of  our  Heavenly  Father,"  and  "Keep  out  of  the  devil's 
territory" — fundamental  principles.  I  am  referring,  of  course,  to 
President  George  Albert  Smith. 

In  this  Church  there  never  is  an  interregnum.  So  soon  as  one 
President  dies,  the  Twelve  take  over;  then,  on  their  proposal,  a 
President  of  the  Church  is  chosen  and  sustained.  And  always,  the 
powers  and  authorities,  the  prerogatives  of  the  one  who  has  passed 
descend  to  the  one  who  comes.  Those  powers  and  authorities,  re- 
sponsibilities, have  descended  upon  our  present  President,  David 
O.  McKay,  who  is  administering  the  affairs  of  the  Church  with 
wisdom,  with  understanding,  and  inspired  by  the  revelations  of 
the  Lord's  mind  and  will. 

The  Family  Relationship 

During  this  conference  much  has  been  said  about  a  subject  that 
has  been  running  in  my  mind  for  several  months,  and  notwithstand- 
ing that  it  has  been  discussed  so  much,  I  should  like  to  add  a  few 
words  during  the  time  I  shall  address  you,  of  my  own  feeling  about 
it.   I  am  referring  to  the  home  and  the  family  relationship. 


PRESIDENT  /.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


57 


The  family,  looked  at  broadly,  is  as  nearly  basic  to  the  prin- 
ciples and  plan  of  the  restored  gospel  as  any  principle  of  which  I 
know.  We  have  a  Heavenly  Father  and  Mother,  the  eternal  par- 
ents of  the  spirits  of  us  who  are  here.  And  those  spirits  were  cre- 
ated that  they  might  come  to  this  earth  and  receive  mortal  taber- 
nacles, so  that  in  the  due  time  of  the  Lord  we  shall  lay  away  the 
mortal  tabernacle;  then  in  due  time  we  shall  resume  it  and  become 
the  perfect  soul,  the  body  and  the  spirit  reunited. 

The  Lord  has  created,  so  he  has  told  us,  worlds  without  num- 
ber, and  I  am  sure  for  this  same  purpose. 

That,  I  repeat,  that  family  relationship  is  fundamental,  because 
without  it  we  cannot  reach  out  to  the  destiny  which  our  Heavenly 
Father  has  provided  for  us.  When  Adam  came,  he  was  alone. 
And  the  Lord  said,  "It  is  not  good  that  the  man  should  be  alone." 
He  said  to  Adam,  "Multiply,  and  replenish  the  earth."  (Gen.  1:28.) 
Eve  came,  then  the  command  was  given  that  a  man  "shall  cleave 
unto  his  wife,"  leaving  father  and  mother,  "and  they  twain  shall 
be  one  flesh."  (Matt.  19:5.)  That  was  reiterated  by  the  Savior 
replying  to  the  query  of  the  taunting  Pharisees.  And  out  of  that 
union  came  ourselves,  our  mortal  tabernacles.  In  our  day  the  Lord 
has  revealed  another  element,  and  that  is  the  sealing  of  man  and 
wife  for  time  and  for  all  eternity,  and  out  of  that  union  they  twain 
beget  blood  and  flesh. 

Responsibility  of  Parents 

And  I  would  like  you  to  reflect  upon  the  fact  that  our  children 
came  to  us  with  spirits  that  did  not  ask  us  to  bring  them,  but  with 
spirits,  through  some  operation  of  which  I  am  not  aware,  that  are 
assigned  to  us;  and  they  come  to  us  as  our  guests.  We  are  re- 
sponsible for  the  mortal  tabernacling  of  that  spirit;  and  I  should 
like  each  and  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  get  that  fact  into  his 
heart,  that  the  child  which  is  his,  or  hers,  comes  at  the  invitation, 
virtually,  of  them  who  beget  it,  and  then  I  would  like  you  to  reflect 
upon  the  responsibility  which  that  brings  home  to  each  and  every 
man  and  woman  who  is  a  parent.  Yours  is  the  responsibility  to  see 
that  this  tabernacled  spirit  loses  no  opportunity,  through  you,  to 
prove  his  worthiness  and  righteousness  in  living  through  his  second 
estate. 

Now  the  point  that  I  wish  particularly  to  emphasize  is  this — 
you  parents  cannot  shift  that  responsibility  to  anyone  else.  It  is 
yours;  you  cannot  divest  yourselves  of  it. 

You  cannot  give  it  to  the  state,  and  you  ought  not  to  give  it 
to  the  state,  for  when  the  state  takes  over  the  direction,  instruction, 
and  rearing  of  its  youth,  then  passes  out,  as  the  whole  history  of 
the  world  shows,  the  great  principle  of  free  agency,  and  not  only 
that,  but  all  the  sacred  principles  of  chastity  and  morality,  with  a 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

host  of  other  virtues  which  belong  to  a  free  society  and  are  inherent 
in  the  governing  principles  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 

You  cannot  entrust  your  children,  in  the  sense  of  having  them 
take  over  your  responsibility,  to  our  schools.  They  cannot  do  your 
work.  They  may  aid,  and,  sometimes,  they  may  detract  and  defeat. 
I  have  referred  before  to  pernicious  doctrines  which  are  appearing 
in  our  schools,  not  only  political  doctrines,  which  I  would  like  you 
to  note,  but  moral.  The  doctrine  that  the  sex  urge  is  like  the  urge 
for  food  and  drink,  is  born  of  Satan,  and  the  man  or  woman  who 
teaches  it,  is  Satan-inspired.  Every  effort  you  can  make  to  prevent 
the  spread  of  this  doctrine,  you  should  make. 

You  cannot  entrust  your  children  to  society.  That  will  never 
do.  Society  is  too  tolerant  of  wrong,  too  ignorant  of  matters  of 
right  living,  too  easy  to  betray  and  debauch. 

And  lastly,  the  Church  cannot  take  over  the  responsibility 
which  is  yours  to  train  your  children.  The  Church  can  aid,  and 
should  be  the  greatest  aid;  and  we  are  derelict  if  we  do  not,  as 
Church  members  and  as  Church  organizations,  provide  that  assist- 
ance. But  beyond  the  Church — the  Sunday  Schools,  the  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations,  the  Primary,  the  Relief  Society,  and  all 
the  priesthood  organizations — beyond  that  is  the  family,  and  it  is 
our  responsibility  as  parents  to  see  to  it  that  we  fully  perform  our 
duties  in  this  respect. 

The  Mother's  Part 

Now,  brethren,  at  best  we  are  somewhat  clumsy  at  leading  and 
directing  our  children.  We  are  away  from  home,  of  necessity,  a 
great  part  of  the  time,  our  thoughts  are  along  other  lines,  we  have 
to  battle  for  our  existence,  for  the  livelihood  of  our  families.  Those 
of  us  who  hold  Church  positions  are  absent  in  the  evenings,  in  addi- 
tion to  the  days  that  we  spend  getting  our  livelihood.  I  repeat,  we 
are  a  little  bit  clumsy.  And  so  to  the  sisters  of  the  Church,  the 
mothers  of  the  Church,  they  whom  the  Lord  has  designed  and 
planned  should  be  the  immediate  instrumentality  of  perpetuating 
the  race  and  of  bringing  spirits  to  this  earth,  providing  bodies  for 
them,  to  them  we  must  primarily  look  for  the  rearing  of  our  chil- 
dren. 

Sisters,  when  you  think  of  what  a  child  is,  the  mortal  taber- 
nacle of  a  spirit  created  by  our  Heavenly  Father,  a  mortal  taber- 
nacle which  you,  with  all  the  sacrifice  that  it  has  entailed,  with  all 
the  danger  that  has  been  involved  of  going  down  into  the  valley  of 
the  shadow  of  death  to  bring  the  child  forth,  when  you  think  of 
that,  do  you  not  sense  how  urgent,  how  immediate,  how  great  is 
the  responsibility  which  you  have  assumed?  And,  oh,  how  well 
the  great  bulk  of  the  sisters,  the  mothers  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  performing  that,  going  on  through  their  whole  lives  sacrificing 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


59 


for  their  children,  for  their  grandchildren,  and  sometimes  for  their 
great-grandchildren!  The  Lord  will  bless  you  sisters,  out  of  the 
abundance  of  his  blessings,  for  every  sacrifice  which  you  make  for 
these  children.  And  do  keep  close  to  them!  And  above  all,  you, 
yourselves,  lead  lives  that  will  be  an  example  to  these  little  ones 
that  you  have  brought  into  the  world.  After  all,  perhaps  that  is 
your  greatest  responsibility — to  live  righteously  before  the  Lord. 

Not  Beyond  Temptation 

One  thing  other  I  would  like  to  mention  for  a  moment,  and 
that  is — I  hope  that  none  of  you  will  feel  that  your  children  are 
beyond  the  reach  of  temptation  or  transgression.  The  more  firmly 
you  feel  that,  the  greater  the  danger  to  your  family.  No  one  is  safe 
from  the  wiles  and  the  persuasions  of  Satan.  He  reached  Adam  and 
Eve  before  mortality  came.  He  reached  into  the  family  of  Adam, 
and  Adam's  family  produced  the  first  murderer.  All  down  through 
history  he  has  reached  into  the  families  and  to  the  persons  of  those 
who  are  in  high  and  responsible  positions.  Satan  reached  David,  a 
man  after  the  Lord's  own  heart,  who  committed  the  great  sin  which 
he  committed;  the  great  Solomon,  and  stole  his  heart  away.  And 
in  modern  times  we  have  too  many  illustrations  of  where  children 
of  our  leaders  do  not  live  just  as  we  would  wish.  So  I  beg  of  you, 
do  not  assume,  my  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  that  your  chlidren  are 
beyond  the  reach  of  Satan,  but  always  go  forward,  always  conduct 
your  family  life,  always  be  parents,  fathers  and  mothers  acting  on 
the  fact  that  Satan  stands  at  the  elbow  of  your  dear  one  to  lead  him 
astray.    Never  forget  that,  my  brothers  and  sisters. 

A  Light  to  Guide 

Now,  in  conclusion,  I  am  reminded  that  Moses,  herding  his 
father-in-law's  sheep  at  Mount  Horeb,  saw  one  day  a  flaming  bush, 
and  the  flame  did  not  consume.  Being  curious,  he  started  to  walk 
toward  this  flaming  bush,  and  the  voice  of  the  Lord  came  out  of  the 
bush  forbidding  him  to  come  farther,  for,  said  the  Lord,  ".  .  .  the 
place  whereon  thou  standest  is  holy  ground."  (Ex.  3:5.)  So  I  think 
that  in  every  Latter-day  Saint  home  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  a  flam- 
ing, non-consuming  fire,  there  to  light  our  way,  to  guide  us,  to 
protect  us,  and  to  help  us  do  our  duty,  and  every  inch  of  space  in 
that  home  is  holy  ground.  We  should  never  forget  it.  Always  re- 
member, and  always  live  so  that  we  shall  not  defile  in  any  way  the 
holiness  of  the  home  which  should  be  ours. 

May  God  bless  the  Saints  in  their  trials  and  in  their  tribulations, 
may  he  help  them  to  guide  and  direct  their  children,  may  he  give 
them  the  power  to  rear  their  children  in  righteousness,  so  that  this 
work  of  ours  shall  fulfil  its  destiny  and  roll  forth  and  fill  the  earth; 
this  blessing  I  ask  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,   October  6  Second  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Marion  G.  Romney,  whom  you  have 
just  sustained  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  coming  to  this  stand  and 
speaking  to  you  is  not  a  new  experience.  This  is  the  twenty-second 
time  I  have  climbed  up  here  in  the  last  ten  and  a  half  years.  I  am 
not  a  stranger  to  you.  Many  of  you  know  me — some  of  you  may 
know  me  too  well.  This  call  has  set  up  a  tremendous  emotional 
reaction  in  me.  I  didn't  think  there  could  be  such  a  big  tempest 
in  such  a  little  teapot.  I  suppose  that  I  need  the  help  of  the  Lord 
now  more  than  I  ever  needed  it  in  my  life.  Will  you  please  ask  him 
to  give  me  strength  to  make  a  few  remarks  appropriate  to  this  oc- 
casion. 

Respect  for  Office 

The  great  respect  I  have  always  had  for  the  office  to  which  I 
am  now  called  contributes  greatly  to  the  emotional  strain  I  am  ex- 
periencing. Men  who  held  these  offices  were  godlike  men  in  the 
eyes  of  my  parents.  When  they  came  to  Old  Mexico  where  I  lived 
as  a  little  child,  I  almost  thought  they  were  of  a  different  race. 

I  remember  what  we  thought  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
when  he  came.  I  don't  remember  any  of  the  brethren  who  are  now 
living  coming  down. 

I  have  always  thought  of  this  office  as  the  office  of  a  special 
witness  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  when  I  think  about  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  I  think  about  the  great  council  in  the  spirit 
world  when  he  undertook  to  be  the  instrument  and  made  the  sacri- 
fice to  put  into  operation  the  gospel  of  redemption.  I  understand  that 
God  the  Eternal  Father  was  the  author  of  the  plan.  I  get  that  from 
President  John  Taylor.    Jesus  sponsored  it. 

"I  will  go,"  he  said.  I  believe  Brother  Whitney  put  it  in  these 
terms:  "Mine  be  the  willing  sacrifice,  the  endless  glory  thine." 

Events  in  Life  of  Redeemer 

Next  I  think  of  the  Redeemer  on  the  mount  with  the  brother  of 
Jared  twenty-two  hundred  years  before  he  was  born  in  the  flesh, 
as  the  infant  child  of  Mary.  There  I  get  the  idea  of  what  I  think  a 
spirit  looks  like.  The  brother  of  Jared  thought  he  had  beheld  flesh 
and  blood,  but  the  Spirit  spake  to  him,  saying,  "Thou  hast  seen  that 
I  shall  take  upon  me  flesh  and  blood."  (Ether  3:9.) 

Then  he  said,  "Seest  thou  that  ye  are  created  after  mine  own 
image?  Yea,  even  all  men  were  created  in  the  beginning  after 
mine  own  image. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


61 


"Behold  this  body,"  [which  looked  to  the  brother  of  Jared  like 
a  body  of  flesh  and  blood  and  bone]  said  the  Spirit  Jesus  Christ, 
"this  body,  which  ye  now  behold,  is  the  body  of  my  spirit;  and  even 
as  I  appear  unto  thee  to  be  in  the  spirit  will  I  appear  unto  my 
people  in  the  flesh."  (See  Ether  3:15-16.) 

And  then  I  think  of  the  Redeemer,  that  great  spirit  who  created 
the  world  under  the  direction  of  God,  our  Eternal  Father,  entering 
the  body  of  a  tiny  infant  in  a  manger  in  Bethlehem. 

I  think  of  him  in  the  temple  at  the  age  of  twelve  already  some- 
what conversant  with  his  mission,  when  he  said  to  his  mother — I 
don't  think  in  any  sense  of  disrespect  when  she  chided  him  a  little 
about  being  there  without  her  knowledge:  ".  .  .  wist  ye  not  that  I 
must  be  about  my  Father's  business?"  (Luke  2:49.) 

I  think  about  him  through  his  ministry.  I  could  mention  many 
cases,  but  I  shall  not  take  much  time.  I  think  about  his  baptism 
as  the  beginning  of  the  pattern  that  we  must  follow.  I  think  about 
him  at  the  well  with  the  Samaritan  woman  when  he  said  that  who- 
soever would  drink  of  the  water  that  he  would  give  would  never 
thirst  again,  because  that  water  would  be  a  well  of  living  water, 
springing  up  into  eternal  life. 

I  think  about  him  when  Lazarus  had  passed  away,  and  Mary 
and  Martha  came  out  to  meet  him.  I  don't  remember  the  conver- 
sation exactly,  but  I  believe  Martha  said,  "Lord,  if  thou  hadst  been 
here,  my  brother  had  not  died,"  and  Jesus  said,  "...  I  am  the  res- 
urrection and  the  life:  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though  he  were  dead, 
yet  shall  he  live:  And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth  in  me  shall 
never  die."  (John  11:21,  25-26.) 

I  think  of  him  in  the  temple  during  those  last  days  of  his  mortal 
life.  I  think  of  him  in  Gethsemane.  I  will  pass  the  scene.  It  moves 
me  too  deeply.  He  suffered  for  me  there,  and  for  you.  I  think  of 
him  on  the  cross.  I  think  of  him  in  the  Grove  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  and  the  Father,  his  Father,  the  Father  of  that  Spirit  of  his 
which  appeared  to  the  brother  of  Jared,  the  Father  of  my  spirit,  as 
President  Clark  has  just  explained,  the  Father  of  the  spirits  of 
all  men. 

When  I  think  about  being  a  special  witness  of  him,  and  I  re- 
member that  Peter,  James,  and  John  could  not  stay  awake  through 
his  last  suffering  in  Gethsemane,  I  think  of  some  who  have  failed. 
I  don't  want  to  fail. 

I  think  of  those  who  have  given  their  lives  for  the  witness.  I 
have  counted  that.  If  it  should  be  necessary,  I  hope  I  will  not 
falter  to  give  my  life  for  the  testimony  of  Jesus.  I  know  he  lives. 
I  doubt  if  I  will  know  it  better  when  I  meet  him. 

Love  for  the  Brethren 

I  shall  not  go  further.  I  would  like  to  pay  my  respects  to  these 
men.  I  know  President  McKay  holds  the  authority  that  the  Prophet 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Dai] 

had,  and  I  know  the  Prophet  held  the  authority  that  Peter  held.  I 
have  loved  President  McKay  for  a  long,  long  time.  He  doesn't 
remember  when  I  first  fell  in  love  with  him.  I  guess  he  doesn't  re- 
member when  you  did,  either. 

It  was  down  in  Los  Angeles  in  the  winter  of  1912  and  1913. 
We  were  known  then  as  Mormon  refugees.  We  had  lost  our  home 
in  Mexico — invited  out  down  there.  Brother  McKay  came  to  Los 
Angeles;  he  came  to  Sunday  School,  and  he  took  a  glass  of  water. 
He  had  a  pen  in  his  hand.  He  showed  us  how  clear  and  beautiful 
the  water  was,  and  then  he  dropped  a  drop  of  ink  in  the  water,  and 
it  clouded  it  all  through,  and  he  said  to  us  little  fellows,  "That  is 
what  sin  does  to  a  life,"  and  I  have  ever  since  then,  President 
McKay,  been  trying  to  keep  that  sin  out  of  my  life. 

I  met  him  over  in  Australia.  I  got  frightened  of  him  over 
there.  I  was  president  of  the  conference.  They  used  to  call  districts 
"conferences."  I  was  conducting,  and  when  he  looked  at  his  watch, 
he  said,  "Brother  Romney,  I  believe  it  is  thirty  seconds  late."  So 
the  next  time  we  started  a  meeting,  we  weren't  late,  and  Brother 
McKay  looked  at  his  watch  and  said,  "Brother  Romney,  I  believe 
it  is  fifteen  seconds  early." 

Then  he  didn't  take  me  with  him  when  he  went  up  to  visit  the 
Genolean  Caves;  he  took  Elder  Bischoff.  I  remember  when  he  came 
back  and  taught  us  a  lesson,  telling  us  how  those  great  stalagmites 
and  stalactites  in  the  caves  were  made  by  infinitesimally  small  de- 
posits from  drops  of  water. 

Then  he  told  us  that  was  how  a  life  was  built.  Every  thought 
we  thought,  every  word  we  spoke,  every  deed  we  did,  registered 
on  our  character.  I  never  have  forgotten  that,  either. 

I  have  always  loved  President  Richards  since  I  knew  him.  I 
went  out  with  him  in  my  early  work  as  an  Assistant,  and  I  remem- 
ber how  he  conducted  conferences.  He  did  it  with  the  skill  with 
which  an  artist  paints  a  picture.  I  think  everything  he  does  is  done 
beautifully.   I  sustain  him  with  all  my  heart. 

Then  this  great  man,  President  Clark,  has  been  closest  to  me 
of  all  the  Presidency,  in  the  administrations  of  President  Grant 
and  President  Smith  and  now  President  McKay,  because  he  has 
been  directing  for  the  Presidency  the  work  that  I  have  been  assigned 
to.  I  don't  think  there  is  a  man  in  the  world  who  loves  righteousness 
and  is  acquainted  with  Brother  Clark  who  doesn't  love  him.  He  has 
been  to  me  as  a  father.  I  love  you,  Brother  Clark,  with  all  the 
strength  of  my  life. 

I  love  Brother  Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith.  He  has 
been  most  kind  and  thoughtful  of  me.  I  thought  he  treated  me  espe- 
cially good  until  I  got  talking  to  the  other  brethren  about  him  and 
found  out  that  he  treated  them  all  the  same. 

Now  I  love  all  the  brethren,  every  one  of  them.  I  don't  go 
down  through  the  Twelve,  except  to  mention  Brother  Lee  and 
Brother  Moyle.  They  are  my  closest  associates.  Brother  Lee  is  a 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


63 


seer.  I  know  I'll  never  go  wrong  if  I'm  with  him,  and  I  know  I'll 
never  go  hungry  if  I'm  with  Brother  Moyle  because  he  is  so  liberal. 

I  love  the  brethren  I  have  worked  with,  Thomas  and  Clifford 
and  Alma,  and  Nicholas  who  passed  away,  the  Patriarch,  the 
Seventy,  the  Bishopric,  and  these  new  men  who  come  in.  Some  of 
them  I  have  been  close  to. 

Gratitude  for  Heritage  1 

Now  I  would  just  like  to  say  I  am  grateful  for  my  heritage. 
Both  my  families  are  of  long-standing  in  the  Church,  the  Redds  and 
the  Romneys.  I  am  claimed  by  both  of  them.  The  Redds  claim  I 
am  a  Romney,  and  the  Romneys  claim  I  am  a  Redd,  but  I  am  proud 
of  them  both.  I  am  very  grateful  for  my  father,  the  late  George  S. 
Romney,  and  my  sainted  mother  who  sits  here  today  in  tears.  I 
am  grateful  for  the  righteous  home  they  reared  me  in- — Mother,  I 
tell  you  I  am  grateful. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  own  family  and  their  support  of  me;  my 
sons  and  daughter-in-law,  my  sixteen-month-old  granddaughter  who 
gives  me  lots  of  joy,  and  last,  but  not  least,  my  beloved  companion, 
the  sweetheart  of  my  youth,  and  the  mother  of  my  children.  They 
have  never  put  a  straw  in  my  way.  We  had  been  married  seventeen 
years  when  I  became  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  and  I  had  only 
been  away  from  home,  leaving  Ida  alone  two  nights.  When  I  first 
started  traveling  around  the  Church,  it  was  hard  for  her.  She  used 
to  cry  every  time  I  left  and  every  time  I  came  back.  Now  she  only 
cries  when  I  come  back. 

Loyalty  of  Members 

I  am  very  grateful  to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters.  I  love  every 
one  of  you.  I  know  some  of  the  contributions  you  make.  As  I  go 
about  the  Church  and  see  you  come  to  the  meetings  the  brethren 
authorize  me  to  call,  I  learn  your  hearts  and  your  loyalty. 

I  sat  in  a  meeting  this  morning  with  two  regional  councils,  and 
I  saw  them  yield  to  the  decisions  that  have  been  made  by  these 
great  men  of  the  Presidency  with  the  finest  spirit  of  unity  that  I 
have  ever  beheld.  I  love  you  for  what  you  have  done  for  me  as  you 
have  received  me  into  your  homes. 

I  will  do  everything  I  can  to  serve  you,  and  I  will  do  everything 
I  can  to  honor  this  high  calling.  God  bless  you,  and  God  bless  me, 
and  will  you  please  pray  for  me  that  no  enemy  shall  dent  the  small 
sector  of  the  line  which  I  am  assigned  to  defend,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened,  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney, 
was  this  day  sustained  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

The  congregation  will  now  join  in  singing:  "Redeemer  of 
Israel." 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  o[  the  Seventy 
Blessed  is  the  nation  whose  God  is  the  Lord."  (Psalm  33:12.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  for  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers,  for  this  is  a  holy  place  from  which  to  speak. 

In  the  dedicatory  prayer  in  the  Kirtland  Temple  given  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  we  have  these  words,  "seek  ye  diligently  and 
teach  one  another  words  of  wisdom;  yea,  seek  ye  out  of  the  best 
books  words  of  wisdom,  seek  learning  even  by  study  and  also  by 
faith."  (D.  &  C.  109:7.) 

But  where  shall  wisdom  be  found?  and  where  is  the  place  of  under- 
standing? 

Man  knoweth  not  the  price  thereof;  neither  is  it  found  in  the  land  of 
the  living. 

The  depth  saith,  It  is  not  in  me;  and  the  sea  saith,  It  is  not  with  me. 
It  cannot  be  gotten  for  gold,  neither  shall  silver  be  weighed  for  the 
price  thereof. 

It  cannot  be  valued  with  the  gold  of  Ophir,  with  the  precious  onyx, 
or  the  sapphire. 

The  gold  and  the  crystal  cannot  equal  it:  and  the  exchange  of  it 
shall  not  be  for  jewels  of  fine  gold.  .  .  . 

Behold,  the  fear  of  the  Lord,  that  is  wisdom;  and  to  depart  from  evil 
is  understanding.  (Job  28:12-17,  28.) 

Lack  of  Wisdom 

To  me,  one  of  the  great  defects  of  our  day  is  the  lack  of  wis- 
dom. If  there  were  wisdom  enough  in  the  world  to  direct  the  course 
of  human  conduct,  we  need  not  have  wars.  If  we  were  wise  enough, 
we  would  search  for  truth  in  solving  all  of  our  problems.  We  would 
try  to  discover  the  causes  of  these  problems,  and  we  would  seek 
more  wisdom  in  their  solution.  We  would  search  for  the  truth 
without  prejudice,  but  with  an  understanding  mind  and  heart  until 
through  wisdom  we  could  agree  among  men  on  important  solutions 
for  permanent  peace  and  the  betterment  of  mankind.  Such  wisdom 
demands  that  we  have  a  deep  faith  in  God,  active  minds,  with  in- 
sight and  understanding  of  the  realities  of  life,  and  the  teachings  of 
the  Redeemer.   In  the  book  of  Ecclesiastes  we  read, 

Wisdom  is  better  than  strength  .  .  . 

Wisdom  is  better  than  weapons  of  war.  (Ecc.  9:16,  18.) 

Search  for  Truth 
We  Latter-day  Saints  are  searching  for  truth  in  ourselves  in 


LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


65 


order  to  contribute  to  the  peace  and  the  betterment  of  the  world. 
Yet  we  cannot  find  truth  without  hard  work,  patient  and  sincere 
work  in  the  form  of  study,  over  a  long  period  of  time. 

This  is  what  a  French  writer  meant  when  he  said,  "Nothing 
is  really  known  until  it  has  been  known  a  long  time."  Wisdom  con- 
siders things  in  the  long  run;  it  considers  life  from  the  standpoint 
beyond  the  individual,  beyond  the  local,  beyond  the  temporary  and 
changing.  It  looks  upon  society  from  a  high  plane  and  in  the  pat- 
tern of  eternal  progression.  In  other  words  the  goal  of  wisdom 
is  the  building  of  the  kingdom  of  God  upon  the  earth. 

Education  of  Youth 

The  young  people  of  today  must  be  taught  to  work  and  study 
hard  that  they  may  establish  a  good  beginning  in  their  search  for 
truth.  We  read  again,  "The  things  that  thou  hast  not  gathered 
in  thy  youth,  how  shall  thou  find  them  in  thine  old  age?"  How  im- 
portant it  is  that  the  early  education  of  our  children  be  encouraged 
and  developed  that  a  sound  basis  of  study  may  be  established.  There 
are  only  a  very  few  years  in  every  life,  when  the  mind  is  fresh  and 
plastic  and  the  memory  able  to  retain.  These  years  should  not  be 
wasted;  they  should  be  used  to  every  possible  advantage  in  the 
search  for  light,  in  the  development  and  growth  of  thought  and 
deeds.  Let  everyone  remember  that  the  work  he  does  shall  rise  up 
in  judgment  against  him,  and  the  roots  of  self-respect  lie  in  work 
done  to  the  best  of  man's  abilities. 

President  Joseph  Young,  who  for  many  years  was  the  head  of 
the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  taught  that  the  most  effective  way 
to  satisfy  one's  noble  impulses  is  training  one's  intelligence  to  its 
highest  pitch,  having  a  depth  of  faith  in  Almighty  God.  Such  train- 
ing means  years  of  study  of  good  books,  years  of  devotion  to  the 
search  for  truth.  This  is  what  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  demands 
of  you  and  me. 

Need  for  Teachers 

Every  man  to  be  educated  on  any  rung  of  the  ladder  must 
have  a  teacher,  not  necessarily  in  the  schoolroom,  but  he  must  be 
taught  by  a  good  book,  a  good  friend,  a  leader.  Let  us  not  be  ac- 
cused as  were  the  Stoics  of  ancient  times  that  "The  nourishment  of 
religion  was  drawn  from  the  shallow  springs  of  their  own  intelli- 
gence."  That  is  our  trouble  today. 

Let  me  read  to  you  from  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles.  One  Philip 
is  admonished  by  the  angel  of  the  Lord  to  go  to  the  man  of  Ethiopia 
to  be  taught  and  to  understand  what  he  is  reading.  As  a  result  the 
Ethiopian  was  converted  to  Christianity. 

And  the  angel  of  the  Lord  spake  unto  Philip,  saying,  Arise,  and  go 
toward  the  south  unto  the  way  that  goeth  down  from  Jerusalem  unto 
Gaza,  which  is  desert. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


And  he  arose  and  went:  and,  behold,  a  man  of  Ethiopia,  a  man  of 
great  authority  under  Candace  queen  of  the  Ethiopians  who  had  the 
charge  of  all  her  treasure,  and  had  come  to  Jerusalem  for  to  worship, 

Was  returning,  and  sitting  in  his  chariot  read  Esaias  the  prophet. 

Then  the  Spirit  said  unto  Philip,  Go  near,  and  join  thyself  to  this 
chariot. 

And  Philip  ran  thither  to  him,  and  heard  him  read  the  prophet  Esaias, 
and  said,  Understand  thou  what  thou  readest? 

And  he  said,  How  can  I,  except  some  man  should  guide  me?  And 
he  desired  Philip  that  he  would  come  up  and  sit  with  him.  (Acts 


The  great  missionary  of  Christ,  Paul  the  Apostle,  was  a  man 
that  was  ever  searching  for  truth,  ever  alert,  never  at  any  time 
mentally  inactive.  His  was  an  active  mind,  seeking  truth  in  the 
university  at  Tarsus.  He  was  a  student  of  the  great  teachers, 
Gamaliel  and  Hillel.  When  Paul  received  the  vision  and  was  con- 
verted on  the  road  to  Damascus,  even  then  was  his  mind  active  in 
his  intense  search  to  understand  the  word  of  God  and  obtain  the 
wisdom  of  the  great  message.  Paul  knew  that  the  life  spent  in  the 
search  of  truth  was  not  an  easy  one.  He  realized  that  his  mission 
was  to  gain  understanding  of  the  truth  of  Christ  and  to  teach  this 
truth  to  others.  Paul  might  have  said:  "The  easier  road  I  leave  to 
others,  I  have  chosen  the  harder  one."  It  was  Emerson  who  said, 
"God  gives  to  every  man  the  choice  between  truth  and  repose;  he 
cannot  have  both."  But  when  Paul  said,  "I  have  chosen  the  harder 
road,"  he  might  have  added,  "but  I  have  also  chosen  the  happier 
one,"  for  the  search  for  truth  is  a  happy  search,  an  interesting  one, 
an  adventuresome,  exciting  road  to  travel. 

A  child  begins  his  search  for  truth  with  his  mother  to  guide 
him,  in  the  reading  of  childhood  rhymes  and  stories  and  classics, 
Bible  stories,  tales  of  heroes,  and  as  he  grows  and  develops,  he 
continues  his  search  in  the  study  of  history,  certainly  one  of  the 
great  fields  in  which  the  wisdom  of  the  ages  is  contained.  Unex- 
celled in  the  field  of  history  are  the  Old  and  New  Testaments,  in 
connection  with  the  other  great  works  of  Holy  Writ.  We  find  in 
the  scriptures  the  words  of  great  poets,  great  writers — the  highest, 
the  most  exalted  expressions  of  human  thought. 


Every  student  of  Church  history  knows  about  the  high  school 
established  in  the  Kirtland  Temple.  The  students  were  taught 
English  by  reading  the  best  literature  and  the  ancient  classics.  The 
principal  of  the  school  was  Professor  H.  M.  Hawes.  There  were 
also  established  Hebrew,  Greek,  and  Latin  classes;  the  professor 
of  Hebrew  was  Joshua  Seixas.  I  have  found  out  that  the  attend- 
ance at  these  classes  on  the  part  of  the  elders  was  very  large,  and 
we  have  from  the  records  the  statement  of  how  the  Prophet  Joseph 


8:26-31.) 


Paul's  Search 


School  at  Kirtland 


LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


67 


Smith  attended  night  in  and  night  out  the  Hebrew  and  Greek  classes. 
He  undoubtedly  felt  and  responded  to  the  beauty  of  these  lan- 
guages, for  only  those  who  have  studied  Greek  and  Latin  and 
Hebrew  know  of  the  beauty  and  richness  of  the  literature  that  has 
come  down  to  the  present  day  from  those  far-off  times.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  shows  us  the  majesty  of  the  statement,  "Seek  ye 
knowledge  out  of  the  best  books,"  and  Joseph  Young,  president  of 
all  the  seventies  in  his  day,  insisted  that  the  seventies  in  their  re- 
spective quorums  become  students  of  literature  and  philosophy  and 
religion.  Thousands  of  them  adopted  the  motto  that,  "Knowledge 
is  Power."  The  beauty  of  this  idea  lies  in  the  fact  that  the  concept 
of  what  knowledge  means  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  this  truth 
that  God  blesses  us  as  we  approach  him  with  deep  faith  and  ask  his 
blessing  in  our  obtaining  knowledge.  Our  minds  and  hearts  are 
opened,  and  we  become  students  in  the  true  sense  of  the  term,  for 
it  is  under  God's  direction  that  we  learn,  and  Jesus  Christ  our  Re- 
deemer becomes  our  greatest  teacher. 

Knowledge  Through  Faith 

The  young  student  devotes  himself  to  the  study  of  literature 
and  art,  engineering  and  medicine,  and  whatever  he  may  choose, 
and  in  all  he  learns  the  truth  and  beauty  of  morality,  the  truths  of 
nature,  and  of  life  itself,  the  truth  by  which  he  gains  the  under- 
standing and  knowledge  of  God  through  his  faith.  Then  these  young 
people  are  on  their  way  to  life  everlasting.  They  put  into  practice 
our  Thirteenth  Article  of  Faith: 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and 
in  doing  good  to  all  men;  indeed,  we  may  say  that  we  follow  the  admoni- 
tion of  Paul — We  believe  all  things,  we  hope  all  things,  we  have  endured 
many  things,  and  hope  to  be  able  to  endure  all  things.  If  there  is  anything 
virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report,  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these 
things. — Joseph  Smith. 

I  pray  that  we,  and  all  America,  may  hark  back  to  our  fore- 
bears in  our  American  history,  to  those  who  gave  us  by  the  divine 
will  of  God  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  and  who  saw  in 
this  government  the  grandeur  that  God  himself  wished,  for  the  word 
of  the  Lord  is  right,  and  all  his  works  are  true. 

He  loved  righteousness  and  judgment:  the  earth  is  full  of  the  goodness 
of  the  Lord. 

By  the  word  of  the  Lord  were  the  heavens  made;  and  all  the  host 
of  them  by  the  breath  of  his  mouth.  .  .  . 

Blessed  is  the  nation  whose  God  is  the  Lord.  (Psalm  33:5-6,  12.) 

May  the  American  people  bring  back  the  ideal  of  the  search 
for  wisdom  through  faith  in  God,  may  God  become  again  the  Lord 
of  this  nation,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen, 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  6  Second  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Levi  Edgar  Young,  president  of  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

Stayner  Richards,  president  of  the  British  Mission,  who  has 
this  day  been  sustained  as  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak 
to  us.    He  will  be  followed  by  Brother  EIRay  L.  Christiansen. 

ELDER  STAYNER  RICHARDS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  during  my  life  I  have  had  a  num- 
ber of  shocks,  but  this  one  that  has  come  to  me  today  is  the  greatest 
of  them  all.  Like  Elder  Romney,  I  have  always  loved,  admired, 
respected,  and  in  my  humble  way,  attempted  to  support  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church.  I  have  placed  them  upon  a  higher  plane. 
I  have  appreciated  their  wisdom,  their  judgment,  their  counsel,  and 
their  righteousness. 

Gratitude  for  Appointment 

Now,  realizing  my  inability,  my  inadequacy,  to  be  asked  to 
step  in  and  associate  with  those  brethren  completely  overwhelms 
me.  I  would  be  ungrateful  if  I  did  not  thank  them  for  this  appoint- 
ment, and  thank  you  for  sustaining  me  today,  and  all  I  can  do  is 
to  promise  you  that  I  shall  give  to  this  calling  the  best  that  I  have. 

If  you  will  pardon  a  personal  allusion,  I  would  like  to  say  that 
throughout  all  my  Church  life,  in  the  bishopric,  stake  presidency, 
and  in  the  mission  field,  I  have  had  a  wonderful  example  in  the 
life  of  my  elder  brother.  Because  of  his  great  devotion  to  the  Church, 
and  the  study  and  the  preparation  and  the  effort  that  he  has  made 
to  qualify  himself  to  measure  up  to  what  was  expected  of  him,  he 
has  been  an  inspiration  to  me. 

Knowing  as  I  do  his  great  appreciation  of  propriety,  of  ethics, 
and  how  sensitive  he  is  pertaining  to  these  matters,  in  making  sure 
that  none  of  his  family  or  relations  ever  received  any  favoritism,  I 
want  to  assure  you  now  that  if  you  regard  this  appointment  as  a 
mistake,  as  I  do  at  the  present  time,  that  you  will  not  blame  Brother 
Stephen  L  for  it. 

Possibly  the  only  resemblance  we  have  is  that  we  have  about 
the  same  amount  of  covering  to  go  over  our  heads,  and  if  you  will 
observe,  we  both  part  our  hair  in  the  middle. 

Missionary  Labors 

I  shall  take  just  a  few  minutes  to  tell  you  about  missionary 
labors  in  Great  Britain.  First,  I  would  like  to  say  that  that's  a 
beautiful  country,  with  its  green  pastures  and  countryside  the  year 
round.  They  are  good  people  that  inhabit  those  islands.  Most  of 


ELDER  STAYNER  RICHARDS 


69 


you,  I  think,  can  trace  your  genealogy  and  your  blood  strain  back 
to  those  people. 

They  are  courteous.  They  are  honest.  They  have  a  sense  of 
justice,  and  I  regard  England  as  one  of  the  cradles  of  real  democ- 
racy. No  one  can  come  into  that  land  as  a  refugee  from  any  country 
where  he  has  been  persecuted,  but  what  he  finds  asylum.  I  have 
a  high  regard  for  the  English  people. 

Right  now  they  are  greatly  concerned  about  the  health  of  their 
monarch,  and  I  would  like  to  advise  if  it  is  not  already  being  done 
by  those  of  the  English  people,  that  they  pray  for  King  George  VI. 
He  and  his  family  are  real  Christians,  as  they  understand  Chris- 
tianity. They  are  very  self-sacrificing,  and  they  are  greatly  loved 
and  respected  by  all  their  subjects. 

In  the  mission  field,  I  am  happy  to  report,  conditions  are  quite 
satisfactory.  Sister  Richards  and  I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  trying 
to  build  upon  the  fine  foundation  that  was  laid  by  President  and 
Sister  Boyer.  They  did  an  excellent  work  there.  The  mission  will 
always  be  grateful  to  them  for  the  excellent  work  that  they  accom- 
plished and  the  devotion  that  they  gave  to  the  cause. 

Our  auxiliary  organizations  are  functioning  very  well  con- 
sidering the  obstacles  that  they  have  to  face.  Most  of  them  are 
officered  by  local  people,  and  those  local  people  are  assuming  their 
responsibilities  with  a  high  degree  of  seriousness,  and  they  are 
meeting  with  considerable  success. 

Generous  Support 

I  would  like  to  thank  on  behalf  of  the  presidency  of  the 
British  Mission  the  fine  parents  who  have  maintained  those  mis- 
sionaries that  we  have  there.  We  thank  you  for  the  encourage- 
ment that  you  have  given  to  them,  and  the  financial  support  that 
has  made  their  presence  there  possible. 

May  I  tell  this  group  assembled  today  that  among  those  par- 
ents we  have  found  those  who  were  very  willing  to  give  of  their 
means  to  help  out  in  the  cause.  We  have  had  two  of  them  who  have 
each  given  a  thousand  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  for  the  work. 
One  couple  gave  $1680.00  to  purchase  an  automobile  for  the  two 
special  representatives  of  the  mission  presidency  to  travel  over  the 
different  districts.  We  had  a  couple  that  gave  $675.00  to  make  it 
possible  for  those  branches  that  could  not  afford  new  song  books 
to  receive  an  adequate  supply. 

Also  in  the  mission  field  we  have  those  with  generous  hearts. 
As  we  concluded  one  district  conference,  one  good  brother  and  his 
wife  came  up  to  me  and  handed  me  an  envelope  and  said,  "Presi- 
dent Richards,  there  is  one  hundred  pounds  that  I  wish  you  would 
use  for  the  missionary  work." 

Just  before  I  left,  I  was  called  to  the  hospital  to  see  a  brother 
who  has  been  sick  for  some  time,  and  for  whom  we  have  prayed 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


to  the  Lord  that  he  might  be  blessed  and  made  well.  When  I 
arrived,  he  handed  me  a  piece  of  paper  and  said,  "Would  you 
read  that?" 

As  I  read  it,  I  found  out  that  it  was  a  codicil  to  his  will  in 
which  he  had  provided  that  when  he  died,  a  sufficient  amount  of 
his  money  should  come  to  our  Church  to  pay  the  full  cost  of  one 
of  the  new  buildings  that  we  contemplate  building. 

These  acts  of  generosity  naturally  make  us  feel  that  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  penetrating  the  hearts  of  the  people,  who  are 
being  made  to  realize  that,  after  all,  it  isn't  what  you  have,  but  it 
is  how  you  use  it,  and  they  love  the  gospel  so  much  that  they  are 
willing  to  give  of  their  means  for  its  support. 


Our  missionaries  are  a  wonderful  lot.  Sister  Richards  and  I 
love  them  with  all  our  hearts,  just  as  we  do  our  own  children.  We 
adopted,  when  we  went  into  the  mission  field,  what  is  called  the 
Anderson  Plan  of  proselyting.  I  may  possibly  not  be  considered 
out  of  order  when  I  pay  respect  to  Elder  Anderson  and  whoever 
assisted  him  in  working  out  that  plan,  for  we  found  out  that  it  is  a 
very  practical  and  methodical  way  of  presenting  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  remember  well  forty  years  ago  as  a  missionary  when  we  used 
to  pass  a  series  of  three  tracts  to  the  door,  attempt  to  get  a  con- 
versation, or  attempt  to  get  a  cottage  meeting,  and  finally  carry 
on  in  that  work. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  that  is  only  the  A  B  C's  compared  with 
this  plan.  Christ  told  his  disciples,  ".  .  .  Go  ye  into  all  the  world 
and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature."  (Mark  16:15.)  That  is 
what  the  missionaries  are  doing  with  this  plan.  They  go  to  the 
door  and  with  smiles  on  their  faces,  and  the  best  personality  they 
can  develop,  hold  up  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  they  try  for  fifteen 
minutes  to  preach  the  gospel.  They  try  to  lend  that  book  and  then 
secure  a  cottage  meeting.  Then  they  carry  on  twelve  different 
lessons  in  which  they  take  up  one  at  a  time  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  and  try  to  secure  an  agreement  on  the  truth  of  every  one  of 
those  principles. 


I  don't  know  about  the  other  missions,  but  I  know  that  it  is 
working  among  our  missionaries,  and  I  thank  God  for  the  way  they 
work.  They  are  willing  to  work  from  nine  o'clock  in  the  morning 
until  ten  or  eleven  o'clock  at  night,  and  they  love  it. 

They  are  happy  because  they  are  busy,  and  I  think  I  will  try 
to  prove  to  you  just  how  hard  they  are  working. 

The  last  report  showed  that  some  districts  are  averaging  107 
hours  tracting  a  month  among  the  missionaries,  twenty-six  street 


Missionary  Plan 


Faithfulness  of  Missionaries 


ELDER  STAYNER  RICHARDS 


71 


meetings  a  month,  twenty-eight  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
lent  a  month,  and  as  high  as  forty-seven  cottage  meetings  a  month, 
which  means  that  each  missionary  is  attending  ninety-four  because 
each  missionary  takes  credit  for  only  the  ones  that  he  conducts. 
That  can't  be  done  without  work,  and  work  in  the  Church  never 
hurt  anybody;  and  it  never  will. 

As  a  result  of  their  work  they  have  lent  out  up  to  date  over 
29,000  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  They  have  had  the  pleasure 
of  baptizing,  because  of  the  Lord's  blessings  upon  them,  almost 
eight  hundred,  and  at  the  present  rate  they  should  lend  out  about 
40,000  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  by  the  end  of  the  year,  and 
they  should  be  servants  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  bringing  in 
between  1,000  and  1,100  new  members  into  the  Church. 

We  rejoice  in  the  great  work  that  they  are  doing.  May  I  say 
that  they  are  living  so  close  to  our  Father  in  heaven  that  they  feel 
to  call  upon  him  on  every  occasion,  and  when  the  question 
comes  up  among  the  investigators,  "How  can  we  give  up  tea,  coffee, 
and  tobacco  that  we  have  used  all  our  lives?"  these  missionaries, 
with  their  faith  in  God,  say,  "You  kneel  down  and  ask  your  Father 
in  heaven  to  help  you,  and  he  will  take  the  desire  for  those  poisons 
away  from  you  that  you  will  never  feel  the  urge  to  take  them  again." 

When  they  ask,  "On  the  amount  that  we  make,  how  can  we 
pay  one-tenth  into  the  Church?"  they  tell  them  the  same  way,  that 
if  they  will  trust  the  Lord,  the  Lord  will  bless  them  so  that  the 
nine-tenths  that  they  have  left  will  go  farther  than  the  ten-tenths 
that  they  receive. 

Efforts  Rewarded 

The  Lord  has  answered  their  requests  in  the  most  wonderful 
ways.  I  wonder  if  you  realize  how  much  faith  these  missionaries 
have.  It  is  a  marvel  to  me. 

One  of  our  district  presidents  went  into  Colchester  in  the 
Norwich  District  there.  He  just  happened  to  be  there  at  noon 
with  his  companion  to  work  with  the  two  missionaries.  One  of 
them  said,  "Will  you  go  out  and  hold  a  street  meeting  with  us?" 

He  said,  "Why,  you  are  not  going  out  in  a  rain  like  this?  It 
is  raining  cats  and  dogs  outside." 

The  other  replied,  "Sure,  we  are  going  out." 

He  said,  "All  right,  I'll  go  with  you." 

They  knelt  down  and  had  a  word  of  prayer.  By  the  time  they 
got  to  the  corner  and  started  their  street  meeting  the  rain  ceased, 
and  that  is  unusual  in  England.  They  held  their  street  meeting  and 
started  home,  and  the  rain  started  up  again.  That  elder  told  his 
president  that  every  time  that  week  it  had  been  exactly  the  same 
way. 

Our  missionaries  entered  upon  a  program  for  six  months  of 
preaching  love  and  kindness.  Let  me  tell  you  how  it  worked  with 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  6  Second  Dag 

one  of  the  missionaries.  He  was  on  a  street  meeting  corner  in 
Leeds  and  as  he  stood  up,  one  of  the  hecklers  gave  him  one  of  the 
worst  lashings  of  invectives  that  any  man  could  receive.  He  tore 
him  down  and  tore  the  religion  down. 

What  did  this  elder  do?  He  lived  what  he  had  been  preaching. 
He  stepped  down,  walked  over  to  the  gentleman  and  said,  "You  have 
given  me  an  awful  calling  down  today.  Possibly  it  is  all  right.  I 
just  want  you  to  know  that  I  hold  nothing  against  you  for  it,  that 
I  love  you,  brother,  and  I  would  like  to  shake  your  hand."  Then  he 
went  back  to  the  stand. 

A  young  woman  was  heard  to  comment  to  another,  "I  didn't 
know  that  anything  like  that  could  happen  outside  of  the  New 
Testament." 

The  Lord's  Blessing 

There  are  other  things  that  I  could  tell  you,  but  I  must  not 
take  more  time.  I  must  not  close  without  saying  that  if  I  have  given 
the  impression  to  any  that  I  claim  any  credit  for  what  has  been 
done  there,  and  is  being  done,  I  am  sorry,  because  I  claim  no  credit 
at  all.  It  has  all  been  done  by  the  missionaries,  and  the  Lord's 
blessings  that  have  attended  them.  Sister  Richards  and  I  have 
bee,n  merely  innocent  and  admiring  bystanders  on  the  sidelines 
urging  them  on. 

I  would  like  to  say  that  I  do  appreciate  my  beloved  wife.  All 
my  life  she  has  been  a  wonderful  companion.  She  is  so  full  of  faith 
and  devotion  to  this  work  that  she  has  been  an  inspiration  to  me, 
and  I  think  it  is  only  fair  to  say  that  I  feel  she  has  done  an  excellent 
work  in  presiding  over  the  Relief  Society  there  in  the  British  Mission. 

May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  bless  all  the  mis- 
sionaries throughout  the  world,  and  cause  that  his  Spirit  may  ever 
attend  them  in  their  labors  is  my  humble  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Stayner  Richards,  whom  you  have  just  sustained  as  an  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  .has  just  concluded  speaking.  We  shall  hear  from 
Elder  Christiansen  this  afternoon,  or  sometime  later. 

It  is  suggested  that  we  sing:  "Praise  to  the  Man  Who  Com- 
muned With  Jehovah." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  James  P.  Jensen, 
formerly  president  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission,  afer  which 
this  conference  will  stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 
The  proceedings  of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at  Salt 
Lake  City,  and,  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  other  stations 
named  at  the  beginning  of  the  Friday  morning  session. 

Important  messages  and  calls  coming  to  us  for  persons  supposed 
to  be  in  attendance  at  the  conference  will  be  broadcast  at  the  dismis- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


73 


sal  of  the  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the  grounds,  and 
similar  messages  coming  in  will  likewise  be  broadcast  at  the  close  of 
each  general  session  of  this  conference  without  further  notice. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the  congrega- 
tion, as  you  know,  Brother  Cornwall  conducting,  and  Brother  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  will  all  join  in  singing  (we  will  remain  seated):  Praise  to 
the  Man  Who  Communed  With  Jehovah." 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Praise  to  the  Man  Who  Com- 
muned With  Jehovah." 

James  P.  Jensen,  formerly  president  of  the  East  Central  States 
Mission,  offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  conducted  the  services  at  the 
Saturday  afternoon  session  of  Conference,  opened  the  meeting 
promptly  at  2  o'clock. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

To  the  audience  listening  in  over  the  radio  we  are  pleased  to 
announce  that  this  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-second 
Semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  being  held  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt 
Lake  City.  These  services,  as  all  general  sessions  of  the  conference, 
are  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system,  and  by  television.  The  proceedings  are  also  broad- 
cast over  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL 
over  the  stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  the  conference. 

This  session  will  be  televised  also  over  KSL  television  station, 
channel  5. 

The  singing  will  be  by  the  congregation,  with  Richard  P.  Con- 
die,  assistant  conductor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  conducting,  and 
Roy  M.  Darley,  assistant  organist,  is  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  the  services  by  the  congregation  singing:  "High 
On  The  Mountain  Top." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Brother  Walter  Miller, 
formerly  president  of  the  Western  Canadian  Mission.  We  will  re- 
main seated  as  we  sing. 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  6  Second  Dai/ 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 
Elder  Walter  Miller,   formerly  President  of  the  Western 
Canadian  Mission,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

All  please  join  now  in  singing:  "Do  What  Is  Right."  We  shall 
be  pleased  to  have  any  groups  and  individuals  who  are  listening  in 
join  with  us. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will  be  Elder  EIRay  L.  Christian- 
sen, president  of  the  Logan  Temple,  president  of  the  East  Cache 
Stake,  and  sustained  this  morning  as  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
Brother  Christiansen  will  be  followed  by  Brother  John  Long  den. 

ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

My  brothers  and  sisters:  In  spite  of  the  many  kindly  and  sincere 
words  of  commendation  and  confidence  that  have  been  spoken  to 
me  in  the  past  two  hours,  I  stand  before  you  in  the  depths  of 
humility,  and  with  fear  and  trembling  do  I  accept  this  calling  that 
has  come  to  me  at  this  time.  Never  once  have  I  thought  that  such 
a  great  assignment  would  ever  be  given  to  me,  but  I  can  assure 
you  that  inasmuch  as  it  has  come  through  the  proper  authority,  I 
shall  do  my  utmost  to  do  honor  to  the  position  and  to  the  work  that 
I  am  assigned,  and  to  this  great  Church,  and  to  serve  the  Lord  and 
you  people  with  all  my  heart  and  strength. 

Willingness  to  Serve 

Long  ago,  I  promised  the  Lord  that  I  stood  ready  to  give  or  to 
do  anything  and  all  things  which  he  would  ask  of  me  through  his 
servants.  I  have  tried  to  do  that,  and  again  I  commit  myself,  in 
your  presence,  to  that  course  in  life. 

I  have  never  yet  been  up  against  a  task  that  was  difficult  for 
me  but  what  I  have  found  the  immediate  and  sustaining  support  of 
my  wonderful  wife,  and  along  with  that,  the  encouragement  of  my 
children.  That  support  has  been  one  of  the  most  helpful,  strengthen- 
ing influences  that  has  come  to  me  in  my  life.  With  their  help,  and 
with  the  help  of  the  Lord  we  have  gone  along  and  done  our  best. 

I  remember  one  time,  a  few  years  ago,  I  was  asked  if  I  would 
serve  as  the  first  counselor  in  the  presidency  of  the  East  Cache 
Stake.  I  already  had  what  I  thought  was  all  I  could  do.   I  was 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


75 


given  about  an  hour  to  decide  whether  I  would  or  would  not 
accept  the  call.  I  was  debating  it  seriously,  although  I  knew  in 
my  heart  that  I  couldn't  refuse.  My  son,  my  only  son,  was  at  home; 
(my  daughters  were  not  at  home),  and  after  conferring  with  my 
wife  about  it,  I  decided  to  call  him  from  his  room  and  tell  him 
what  had  happened  and  see  what  he  might  say.  I  said,  "John,  they 
have  asked  me  to  become  first  counselor  in  the  presidency  of  this 
stake." 

Before  I  could  ask  his  opinion  he  said,  "Well,  you're  going  to 
take  it,  aren't  you?"  And  so  I  hesitated  no  longer.  How  I  appreciate 
that!  Now  that  this  call  has  come,  I  am  sure  that  my  family  will 
help  me  to  become  composed  and  to  do  my  duty. 

I  have  wondered  just  how  long  this  stupor  lasts  when  one  is 
called  into  these  positions.  I  have  felt  as  if  I  were  in  a  daze,  and  it 
doesn't  seem  to  leave  quickly,  either. 

Love  for  General  Authorities 

I  have  learned  to  love  these  brethren,  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  and  I  have  tried  to  sustain  them,  and  I  here  pledge 
that  I  shall  sustain  them  continually  in  their  work.  Some  of  them 
toured  the  mission  with  us.  We  were  "greenhorns"  at  the  work, 
but  the  comfort  and  encouragement  and  assurance  from  these  won- 
derful men  I  shall  never  forget. 

We  sang  with  them  as  we  journeyed  and  talked  with  them 
intimately.  They  pointed  out  needful  and  useful  things  that  we 
might  do,  commended  us  on  the  few  that  we  had  done,  but  the 
confidence  they  inspired  and  instilled  into  us  was  most  helpful  and 
heartening.  I  can  never  forget  that!  Then  the  association  now  and 
again  in  the  transacting  of  the  business  that  I  have  had  to  do  with 
the  other  brethren;  their  coming  into  our  stakes;  the  kindness  and 
the  wisdom  that  they  show  is  beyond  compare. 

I  am  sure  that  they  will  yet  be  patient  with  me,  and  tolerant 
and  helpful.  I  beg  this  of  them,  along  with  the  help  of  my  family 
which  I  may  well  expect.  And,  I  still  can  look  to  my  Father  in 
heaven  for  added  support,  and  be  assured  that  as  he  has  always 
done,  he  will  continue  to  strengthen  and  help  me  in  the  work  that 
I  am  to  do  in  his  Church  and  kingdom. 

I  like  that  song  we  sang  this  morning,  "I'll  strengthen  thee, 
help  thee,  and  cause  thee  to  stand,  upheld  by  my  righteous,  omnip- 
otent hand."  I  am  sure  that  help  will  be  forthcoming. 

Testimony 

Brethren,  and  sisters,  I  have  a  testimony  of  this  gospel.  Were 
it  not  so,  I  would  not  accept  these  assignments.  I  know  that  God 
lives;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  the  instru- 
ment in  his  hands  to  restore  to  the  earth  the  gospel,  the  power  of 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

the  priesthood  in  the  last  days  for  the  last  time.  There  is  no  doubt 
about  this  in  my  mind,  and  I  testify  to  you  that  it  is  so. 

I  realize  that  this  testimony,  in  order  to  be  sincere  and  genuine, 
and  any  testimony  which  we  declare,  should  be  accompanied  by 
good  works  and  by  serving  our  Father  in  heaven;  by  doing  his 
will  and  keeping  his  commandments,  otherwise  it  is  merely  as 
sounding  brass. 

Two  passages  of  scripture  have  helped  me  greatly  as  I  have 
come  along  through  life.  When  I  first  read  them,  they  made  an 
impression  upon  me. 

Seek  not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom,  and  behold,  the  mysteries  of  God 
shall  be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall  you  be  made  rich.  Behold, 
he  that  hath  eternal  life  is  rich.  (D.  &  C.  6:7.) 

That  helped  me. 

And  the  other  one  which  has  helped  me  to  dedicate  my  time 
as  needed  is  found  in  the  103rd  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants and  reads: 

Let  no  man  be  afraid  to  lay  down  his  life  for  my  sake;  for  whoso 
layeth  down  his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it  again. 

And  whoso  is  not  willing  to  lay  down  his  life  for  my  sake  is  not  my 
disciple.    (Ibid.,  103:27-28.) 

I  hope  I  shall  never  falter  in  my  determination  to  serve  him, 
for  I  love  the  Lord  with  all  my  heart. 

Stake  Work 

There  are  things  that  I  would  like  to  have  finished  that  we 
have  begun  in  our  stake.  We  have  a  372-acre  farm  as  a  stake 
welfare  project,  and  I,  along  with  my  brethren,  have  had  a  great 
deal  of  satisfaction  out  on  that  farm  this  summer,  working  hard  and 
seeing  these  buildings  being  erected  and  equipped  to  carry  on  our 
dairy  project.  It  has  been  a  great  thrill  to  be  out  there  with  the 
brethren  and  enjoy  the  fellowship  and  the  association  that  come 
under  those  conditions. 

^Ve  have  some  little  cards  that  we  have  the  brethren  fill  out  at 
the  end  of  each  day's  work  showing  the  amount  of  time  they  spend 
and  the  type  of  work  they  do.  I  looked  over  some  of  those  cards  one 
day  and  found  one  of  the  young  elders,  who  was  out  there  for  the 
first  time,  had  been  digging  a  trench  part  of  the  day  and  running 
cement  the  other  part.  Opposite  the  question  as  to  the  nature  of 
the  work  done,  he  wrote  in  big  letters,  "Hard."  Well,  it  has  been 
just  that,  but  it  has  been  enjoyable. 

I  know  that  this  farm  and  the  other  affairs  will  be  in  good  hands 
because  I  have  had  wonderful  help  in  the  association  of  my  coun- 
selors, the  high  council  and  the  bishoprics  of  the  wards, — and  the 
brethren  of  the  priesthood.  It  has  been  an  inspiration.  The  work 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


77 


will  go  on,  and  I  will  watch  it  with  great  eagerness  and  with  great 
interest. 

My  work  in  directing  the  affairs  of  the  Logan  Temple  has  been 
most  satisfying  and  enjoyable.  The  devotion  of  those  who  serve 
there  is  commendable  and  praiseworthy. 

I  must  not  speak  longer,  but  I  pray  God  to  bless  you,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  may  be  faithful  and  be  counted  among 
those  who  would,  if  necessary,  give  our  all  for  his  sake  as  he  has 
given  his  for  our  sake,  and  that  I  may  so  be  ready,  I  pray.  And 
I  ask  you,  my  friends  and  associates  who  know  me  so  well  and 
know  my  limitations  as  I  know  them,  to  help  me  and  to  pray  for 
me.  I  need  your  prayers.  May  God  bless  us  to  be  faithful  and 
true,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Brother  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  who 
was  sustained  this  morning  as  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 

Brother  John  Longden,  who  has  served  as  bishop,  high  council- 
man, member  of  the  General  Welfare  Committee,  and  sustained  this 
morning  as  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the  Church. 

ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

I  am  still  surprised,  amazed,  and  shocked  at  the  glorious  honor 
that  has  come  to  me.  I  assure  you  that  I  am  most  humble  in  accept- 
ing this  responsibility.  The  experience  of  the  last  seventeen  or 
eighteen  hours  I  would  not  trade  for  anything  of  a  monetary  value. 

President  McKay  called  me  to  his  home  last  evening,  pulled 
up  a  chair  next  to  me,  took  my  hand  and  looked  me  in  the  eyes; 
there  was  a  chill  went  up  my  spine.  It  was  a  warm  chill,  that  I 
shall  never  forget,  and  I  have  been  impressed  since  with  the  thought 
that  if  each  member  of  the  Church  could  have  such  an  experience 
as  I  had  last  evening,  he  would  gain  strength  and  a  support  the  like 
of  which  he  has  never  experienced. 

Vote  of  Confidence 

It  is  consoling  to  know  you  have  the  vote  of  confidence  of  the 
membership  of  the  Church  assembled  here.  I  am  reminded  of  a 
story  of  a  man  who  was  running  for  the  Senate  in  one  of  the 
states  recently.  He  had  made  what  he  thought  was  an  excellent 
speech,  after  which  one  who  was  in  the  audience  came  up  and 
shook  his  fist  in  his  face  and  said,  "I  wouldn't  vote  for  you  if  you 
were  Saint  Peter."   The  would-be  senator  said  in  return,  "If  I 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  6  Second  Day 

were  Saint  Peter,  I  wouldn't  need  your  vote  because  you  wouldn't 
be  in  my  district." 

I  am  grateful  that  I  am  in  your  district,  brothers  and  sisters, 
and  that  I  have  had  the  privilege  for  about  a  year  and  a  half  of 
coming  into  some  of  the  stakes  and  partaking  of  your  spirit  and 
fine  hospitality  and  kindness.  This  gives  me  strength  to  face  the 
task  ahead. 

If  my  life  is  of  no  value  to  my  friends,  I  assure  you  that  it  is 
of  no  value  to  me.  Sister  Longden  and  I  have  said  many  times, 
that  we  would  like  to  die  with  our  boots  on  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord. 

Testimony 

I  have  a  testimony  of  this  gospel,  that  it  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  that  his  Church  is  restored  to  the  earth  in  its  fulness.  I  am 
grateful  for  that  testimony.  I  am  grateful  for  faith  in  a  divine,  living, 
personal  God.  I  am  grateful  for  faith  in  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  am  grateful  for  faith  that  his  gospel  has  been  restored  in 
its  fulness.  I  am  grateful  for  faith  in  the  divine  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

And  most  of  all  I  am  grateful  that  there  is  a  spirit  burning 
within  me  that  tells  me  that  these  men  whom  we  have  sustained 
today  are  our  leaders;  that  they  are  divine;  they  are  men  chosen 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  through  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  to  lead  us  in 
this  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  and  that  they  lead 
us  with  love  and  kindness.  I  bear  you  witness  and  testimony  that 
if  we  will  do  the  things  that  these  men  whom  we  have  sustained 
counsel  us  in,  we  will  have  no  need  to  fear. 

Gratitude  for  Blessings 

I  am  grateful  for  a  loving  wife,  one  who  has  overlooked  my 
shortcomings,  errors,  and  mistakes,  and  has  been  most  patient  with 
me  now  for  twenty-seven  years.  I  am  grateful  for  two  lovely 
daughters  that  we  have  been  permitted  to  rear  thus  far,  one  who 
three  days  ago  bore  a  son.  I  am  grateful  for  these  blessings. 

Everything  I  have  I  owe  to  this  Church.  How  grateful  I  am 
that  the  missionaries  came  and  sought  out  my  parents  in  England 
some  sixty  years  ago,  and  that  they  listened  to  their  warning  voice. 

Let  the  Spirit  of  the  Savior  be  in  our  hearts  whether  we  are 
working  in  the  shop,  or  whether  we  are  in  school.  You  young 
people  need  not  be  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  don't 
care  what  you  might  be  doing  by  way  of  earning  your  livelihood. 
As  you  testify  of  his  goodness,  he  verily  will  bless  you.  And  so  I 
realize  as  I  stand  before  you  today  that  in  and  of  myself  I  could 
accomplish  nothing,  but  I  understand  the  scriptures,  and  I  believe 
it  was  the  Savior  speaking  to  Nephi  when  he  said  he  would  not 
command  anything  of  his  children  unless  he  prepared  the  way  and 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


79 


made  it  possible  for  them  to  accomplish  those  things.  I  have  faith 
in  that  teaching  of  the  Savior.  I  know  with  your  help,  with  your 
love,  with  your  prayers  and  faith  that  I  will  be  able  to  accomplish 
the  bit  which  I  have  been  called  upon  to  fulfill. 

May  God's  choice  blessings  be  upon  us,  may  we  have  the 
spirit  of  love  in  our  homes  as  we  were  exhorted  this  morning. 

Experience  at  School 

I  recall  a  glorious  experience  just  a  few  months  ago  in  taking 
a  group  of  young  junior  high  school  students  to  the  deaf  and 
dumb  school  in  Ogden.  It  was  a  thrilling  experience  to  see  a 
patient  teacher  with  children  seven  and  eight  years  of  age  who 
could  not  hear  and  could  not  speak,  yet  with  the  aid  of  the  child's 
hand  upon  the  teacher's  throat,  a  mirror  in  front  of  them,  and  with 
an  arm  around  that  child,  she  was  able  through  the  vibrations  to 
teach  some  sentences.  They  were  these  (a  lesson  to  the  world  in 
this  time  of  turmoil  and  confusion):  "I  love  God,"  "I  love  father." 
"I  love  mother."  "I  love  my  neighbor."  To  me  that  was  the  action 
of  the  commandment  of  Jesus  Christ  in  very  deed. 

May  we  have  this  love  in  our  hearts  as  we  go  back  into  our 
wards  and  into  our  stakes,  I  humbly  pray,  as  I  bear  my  testimony 
to  you  with  all  sincerity  and  humility  that  this  is  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  I  do  it  in  his  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O,  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is  John  Longden,  who  this 
morning  was  sustained  as  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 

We  sustained  also  Brother  George  Q.  Morris  who  is  presiding 
over  the  Eastern  States  Mission,  whom  we  consulted  yesterday,  and 
who  has  willingly  accepted,  saying  in  words,  "Whatever  you  Breth- 
ren wish  me  to  do,  that  I  gladly  and  willingly  will  do  my  best  to  do." 

We  shall  now  listen  to  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the  Church, 
who  will  be  followed  by  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  a  member  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve. 

ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

It  is  truly  a  privilege  and  honor  to  be  here  and  partake  of  the 
spirit  and  influence  of  this  occasion.  I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  will  be  with  me  while  I  occupy  this  time.  I  want  to  acknowl- 
edge my  gratitude  for  the  prayer  that  was  offered  in  my  behalf  and 
in  behalf  of  the  other  patriarchs  at  the  opening  of  this  conference. 
I  rejoice  in  the  spirit  of  this  conference  and  in  the  influence  that 
radiates  from  such  gatherings.  I  appreciate  the  privilege  of  being 
in  the  presence  of  the  General  Authorities  and  such  a  multitude  of 
the  priesthood  and  Saints.    Truly,  this  is  a  happy  people,  and 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  6  Second  Day 

why  shouldn't  we  be  happy?  We  possess  the  greatest  knowledge 
given  to  man — the  knowledge  of  the  gospel.   Then  the  greatest 
happiness  comes  from  our  efforts  to  give  it  to  others. 
Henry  Thoreau  wrote: 

It  is  something  to  be  able  to  paint  a  particular  picture,  or  to  carve 
a  statue  and  to  so  make  a  few  objects  beautiful,  but  it  is  far  more  glori- 
ous to  carve  and  paint  the  very  atmosphere  and  medium  through  which  we 
look — to  affect  the  quality  of  the  day.  That  is  the  highest  of  arts. 

The  Art  of  Living 

Thoreau  is  trying  to  remind  us  that  great  art  is  not  restricted 
to  painting,  music,  sculpture,  and  writing.  There  is  an  art  to  living, 
too.  Who  of  all  people  are  better  prepared  to  affect  the  quality  of 
the  day  for  others  than  are  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  The  art  of  living  should  be  at  its  best  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  One  must  first  have  his  own  house  in  order.  He  must  first 
live  the  gospel  himself;  then  he  can  affect  the  quality  of  the  day  for 
others. 

What  can  bring  greater  joy  to  man  than  a  knowledge  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  know  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  to  know  the  plan  of  salvation,  and 
to  know  that  he  has  an  opportunity  to  follow  that  plan  and  receive 
salvation — yes,  even  exaltation.  Then  take  that  knowledge  and 
give  it  to  others,  paint  the  atmosphere  and  medium  through  which 
they  look. 

It  thrills  me  to  see  the  faces  of  converts  to  the  Church  fill  with 
joy  when  they  tell  me  their  experiences  through  which  they  joined 
the  Church,  to  see  the  reverence  paid  to  those  missionaries  who 
brought  them  the  gospel;  how  they,  too,  know  that  God  lives  and 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  and  that  his  gospel  has  been  restored  to  the 
earth.  Those  missionaries  were  the  greatest  artists. 

Such  art  is  not  confined  to  the  ordained  missionaries.  Every 
member  of  the  Church  can  so  live  as  to  change  the  atmosphere 
around  him  for  the  benefit  of  others.  Teach  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  through  your  very  deeds,  acts  of  kindness;  be  sincere  in  your 
religion  and  live  it  strictly,  that  through  your  deeds  others  shall 
follow. 

Said  the  Savior, 

Ye  are  the  light  of  the  world.  A  city  that  is  set  on  an  hill  cannot 
be  hid. 

Neither  do  men  light  a  candle  and  put  it  under  a  bushel,  but  on  a 
candlestick;  and  it  giveth  light  unto  all  that  are  in  the  house. 

Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see  your  good 
works,  and  glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  (Matthew  5:14-16.) 

Christ  was  speaking  to  his  disciples  in  that  greatest  of  all  ser- 
mons, the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  when  he  gave  this  commandment. 
It  was  to  those  same  disciples  that  Jesus  had  explained  the  gospel 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH  81 

plan  in  all  its  fulness.  They  had  listened  to  him,  talked  to  him,  come 
under  the  influence  of  his  divine  personality.  They  had  witnessed 
the  miracles  he  had  performed,  so  because  of  their  greater  knowledge 
and  their  great  privileges  theirs  was  the  responsibility  to  let  their 
light  so  shine  before  men  that  others  might  see  their  good  works 
and  glorify  their  Father,  which  is  in  heaven. 

Exemplars  of  Righteousness 

Today,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  command  is  directed  to 
us.  We  have  received  a  light  and  knowledge  that  was  given  to  the 
disciples  of  old.  It  is  our  responsibility  to  let  our  light  so  shine  until 
it  really  reaches  the  ends  of  the  earth. 

If  each  individual  member  of  this  entire  Church  would  sin- 
cerely strive  to  do  his  or  her  best,  just  think  what  might  be  accom- 
plished. We  can  spread  gloom  around  us,  we  can  spread  good  cheer, 
or  we  can  be  such  an  example  of  righteousness  that  others  will  want 
to  follow  the  pattern  of  our  lives.  A  chain  reaction  goes  on  that  is 
endless  in  its  effects.  When  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  gospel 
is  given  to  you,  you  can  pass  it  on  to  others.  If  you  are  living  the 
gospel,  they  will  hear  your  testimony.  Remember  the  saying:  "How 
can  I  hear  what  you  are  saying,  when  what  you  are  is  ringing  so 
loudly  in  my  ears?" 

Power  in  Testimonies 

Live  the  gospel  first,  then  teach  it  to  others.  Declare  your  testi- 
mony to  others  on  every  occasion.  There  is  a  power  in  bearing  your 
testimony. 

I  remember  an  occasion  in  the  mission  field  in  Germany,  when 
I  had  been  tracting.  I  was  getting  a  bit  discouraged,  having  met 
nothing  but  passive  attention.  After  climbing  some  stairs  I  knocked 
on  a  door,  and  a  large  man  opened  it  and  with  a  very  gruff  attitude 
greeted  me.  I  gave  him  my  brief  message,  as  we  did  in  those  days 
in  presenting  a  tract  at  the  door;  he  turned  and  picked  up  a  handful 
of  leaflets  off  the  table  near  the  door  and  shook  them  in  my  face  and 
declared  to  me  that  I  was  the  fifth  person  who  had  been  to  his  door 
that  day  with  just  such  leaflets.  He  was  a  large  man  and  very  rough 
in  his  approach.  I  expected  any  moment  that  I  might  be  thrown 
down  the  stairs,  but  he  declared  that  none  of  us  knew  that  we  had 
the  gospel.  He  said,  "You  all  say  that  it  is  true;  this  is  the  way; 
you  all  say  that.  None  of  you  know." 

I  met  the  challenge,  and  I  stood  straight  before  him  and  looked 
him  square  in  the  eyes,  and  I  bore  my  testimony  to  him  that  I  knew 
that  this  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  only  method  by  which 
he  could  gain  salvation,  and  I  went  on  at  some  length  bearing  my 
testimony  to  this  man.  Afterward  I  was  surprised  at  the  fluency  of 
my  speech  because  I  had  not  been  in  Germany  very  long,  I  did 
not  understand  the  language  very  well,  but  when  I  had  finished,  he 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

had  changed  his  tone  entirely  and  very  humbly  begged  my  pardon 
and  promised  to  read  the  tract,  which  I  am  sure  he  did. 

I  am  sure  that  as  we  bear  our  testimonies  in  our  sacrament 
meetings,  that  same  effect  goes  out  to  others  and  assists  others  in 
strengthening  their  testimonies.  And  as  we  have  heard  testimonies 
here  in  this  conference,  they  are  a  strengthening  power  to  all  of  us. 
It  was  the  strengthening  power  of  their  testimonies  of  the  divinity 
of  the  gospel  that  was  the  motivating  power  to  the  pioneers  in  their 
trek  across  the  plains;  it  gave  them  the  courage  to  face  the  hard- 
ships and  trials  of  that  long  journey. 

A  testimony  is  more  than  a  mathematical  calculation.  It  is  more 
than  the  result  of  a  given  experience.  As  a  young  man  enumerated 
a  number  of  experiences  in  the  process  of  his  conversion,  after  each 
experience  he  said,  "That  was  not  what  converted  me."  Again,  "And 
that  was  not  what  converted  me."  It  was  the  accumulation  of  many 
experiences  with  sincerity  and  prayer  which  put  him  in  tune  to  the 
promptings  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  And  so  it  is  with  me  and  all  others 
who  have  a  testimony.  The  Spirit  testifies  from  within. 

The  Spirit  Within 

Yes,  I  have  had  many  experiences  in  the  mission  field  and  at 
home  of  healings,  the  blind  made  to  see,  the  evil  spirits  rebuked,  but 
the  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  gospel  comes  not  alone  from 
these  experiences  but  from  the  spirit  within,  which  testifies  of  God 
and  that  he  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  he  has  estab- 
lished his  gospel  in  the  earth,  with  the  full  power  of  the  priesthood 
through  which  all  the  ordinances  unto  salvation  and  exaltation  may 
be  performed. 

That  knowledge  burns  within  me,  and  even  though  Satan  has 
tried  to  take  it  from  me,  he  has  not  succeeded  and  never  shall,  for 
I  know  this  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  power  unto  salvation, 
the  light  and  life  of  the  world.  I  know  that  President  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay has  been  chosen  of  God  to  lead  this  people  in  this  day.  I  sus- 
tain him  and  his  Counselors  and  all  the  other  General  Authorities, 
and  I  pray  God's  blessings  upon  them. 

May  the  Lord  bless  each  of  us  with  a  burning  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  this  gospel,  and  may  the  Lord  help  us  to  extend  it  to 
others  that  they  too  may  receive  the  joy  and  blessings  of  the  gospel, 
that  the  earth  may  speedily  be  prepared  for  his  coming.  May  we 
all  carry  with  us  from  this  conference  a  renewed  determination  to 
go  forth  proclaiming  his  gospel  in  deed  and  in  precept  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  assure  you  today 
of  my  humility  and  my  desire  to  say  something  which  will  be  helpful. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


83 


I  assure  you  also  of  my  loyalty,  my  love  for,  and  my  faith  in  the 
prophet,  seer,  and  revelator,  President  David  O.  McKay,  and  his 
Counselors. 

As  the  statistics  were  read  this  morning  of  the  growth  of  the 
Church,  the  thought  came  to  me  that  perhaps  our  beloved  President 
George  Albert  Smith,  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  all  of  whom  I  knew  personally,  and  those  others  who  have 
presided  in  this  Tabernacle  and  over  this  Church,  would  be  gratified 
to  see  the  tremendous  development  in  the  Church.  We  hope  that 
the  spiritual  growth  has  kept  pace. 

New  Church  Officers 

Today  we  have  sustained  some  new  men  in  official  positions 
as  General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  Having  known  each  of  these 
men,  my  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude  to  have  them  close  to  us.  I 
have  watched  Brother  Longden  grow  these  past  eight  years  since 
I  met  him  first.  I  have  been  in  Brother  Stayner  Richards'  stake  and 
have  seen  the  precision  with  which  his  work  was  carried  on.  With 
Brother  Moyle  I  helped  to  install  Brother  EIRay  Christiansen  as 
president  of  the  East  Cache  Stake  over  which  he  now  presides,  and 
there  I  came  in  contact  with  a  man  of  God,  one  whose  love  for  his 
Heavenly  Father  was  unsurpassed.  It  was  my  privilege  just  very 
recently  to  spend  a  week  with  President  George  Q.  Morris  in  the 
Eastern  States.  I  had  never  had  the  privilege  of  getting  intimately 
acquainted  with  him  before,  but  this  week  convinced  me  that  he  is 
one  of  God's  great  servants.  And  so  I  am  grateful  for  these  four 
men  who  are  going  to  be  associated  with  us  a  little  closer  than  they 
have  been  in  the  past,  and  I  am  sure  you  people  will  be  inspired 
by  them.  For  a  decade  Brother  Romney  has  been  growing  ever 
closer  to  his  Maker.  He  has  served  faithfully;  he  has  proved  himself; 
he  has  stood  the  test  and  measured  up.  I  am  grateful  to  have  Brother 
Marion  Romney  as  one  of  our  Council,  and  I  shall  fully  sustain  him. 

As  I  think  of  the  calling  of  these  brethren,  I  am  reminded  of 
the  statement  made  by  the  Savior  in  the  ninth  chapter  of  Luke,  in 
which  he  says, 

And  it  came  to  pass,  that,  as  they  went  in  the  way,  a  certain  man  said 
unto  him,  Lord,  I  will  follow  thee  whithersoever  thou  goest. 

And  Jesus  said  unto  him,  Foxes  have  holes,  and  birds  of  the  air  have 
nests;  but  the  Son  of  man  hath  not  where  to  lay  his  head. 

And  he  said  unto  another,  Follow  me.  But  he  said,  Lord,  suffer  me 
first  to  go  and  bury  my  father. 

Jesus  said  unto  him,  Let  the  dead  bury  their  dead:  but  go  thou  and 
preach  the  kingdom  of  God. 

And  another  also  said,  Lord,  I  will  follow  thee;  but  let  me  first  go  bid 
them  farewell,  which  are  at  home  at  my  house. 

And  Jesus  said  unto  him,  No  man,  having  put  his  hand  to  the  plough, 
and  looking  back,  is  fit  for  the  kingdom  of  God.  (Luke  9:57-62.) 


Five  men  today  have  put  their  hands  firmly  on  the  plow,  never 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


to  turn  back.  They  have  been  willing  to  make  adjustments,  what- 
ever is  required,  and  the  adjustments  will  not  be  few.  They  do  not 
fear  sacrifice.  And  so  it  is  with  the  members  of  the  Church  to  a 
greater  or  lesser  extent. 


Before  we  came  into  the  world,  the  Lord  said  to  us  and  to  the 
great  multitude, 

.  .  .  we  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there,  and  we  will  take  of 
these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon  these  may  dwell; 
And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things  whatso- 
ever the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them.  (Abraham  3:24-25.) 

I  believe  it  was  from  this  very  pulpit  that  my  grandfather  pre- 
sented a  sermon  in  which  he  said,  "The  test,  the  test,  the  TEST  is 
coming."  Well,  the  test  is  here.  The  test  has  always  been  here.  We 
came  into  the  world  as  a  test.  All  the  way  down  the  line  there  are 
adjustments  to  make.  There  are  sins  to  overcome.  There  is  much 
to  learn.  There  are  weaknesses  above  which  we  must  rise.  We  must 
gain  self-mastery,  become  righteous,  and  attain  unto  perfection. 

In  the  early  days  of  the  ministry  of  the  Savior,  he  gave  to  us 
in  a  great  sermon: 

And  if  any  man  will  sue  thee  at  the  law,  and  take  away  thy  coat, 
let  him  have  thy  cloak  also. 

And  whosoever  shall  compel  thee  to  go  a  mile,  go  with  him  twain. 
(Matt.  5:40-41.) 

And  he  says  a  little  later, 

.  .  .  Love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse  you,  do  good  to  them 
that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully  use  you,  and  perse- 
cute you; 

That  ye  may  be  the  children  of  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven: 

.  .  .  For  if  ye  love  them  which  love  you,  what  reward  have  ye?  do 

not  even  the  publicans  the  same? 

Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven 

is  perfect.  (Ibid.,  5:44-46,  48.) 


The  letter  killeth  and  the  spirit  giveth  life,  and  in  all  of  our 
activities  we  should  remember  that. 

Brother  Romney  spoke  of  the  beautiful  life  of  the  Savior,  his 
life  of  sacrifice.  I  wonder  as  we  go  into  our  testimony  meetings  if 
we  ponder  on  the  atonement  and  his  sacrifice.  The  letter  killeth, 
but  the  spirit  giveth  life.  Do  we  take  the  bread  and  the  water  in 
remembrance  of  the  body,  the  flesh  and  the  blood  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  or  do  we  just  take  bread  and  water? 

When  we  pray  to  our  Heavenly  Father,  do  we  follow  routine 
procedures  and  pray  a  prayer  of  words  or  do  we  pray  unto  the 


"Prove  Them  Herewith" 


Spirit  Giveth  Life 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


85 


Lord  with  all  our  hearts  and  souls?  The  letter  killeth,  and  the 
spirit  giveth  life.  Just  this  week  a  young  woman  said  to  me  that 
she  had  been  praying  for  light  and  for  the  solution  to  some  of  her 
problems,  but  though  she  had  uttered  many  prayers  she  felt  that 
her  petitions  had  not  gone  higher  than  the  ceiling. 

And  with  the  other  principles  of  the  gospel — are  we  sincere  and 
devout?  Do  we  pay  our  tithes  with  a  great  devotion — with  a  grati- 
tude for  the  privilege,  or  do  we  pay  as  a  matter  of  fact  and  through 
routine,  or  because  we  feel  under  pressure?  It  is  my  candid  opinion 
that  the  Lord  does  not  need  the  tithes  we  pay.  Certainly  he  puts 
them  to  beneficial  use,  in  the  erection  of  chapels,  temples,  in  mis- 
sionary work,  in  educational  endeavors,  but  the  Lord  could  find 
other  ways  and  means  to  finance  his  program  without  the  tithes. 
It  is  you  and  I  who  are  blessed  when  we  pay  the  tithes.  We  have 
obeyed  a  principle;  we  have  mastered  our  desires;  we  have  obeyed 
a  commandment  without  necessarily  knowing  fully  why.  You  will 
remember  that  the  angel  said  to  Adam,  "Why  dost  thou  offer 
sacrifices  unto  the  Lord?  And  Adam  said  unto  him:  I  know  not, 
save  the  Lord  commanded  me."  (P.  of  G.  P.,  Moses  5:6.)  Adam 
was  a  man  of  God  with  a  great  faith,  and  he  continued  to  offer 
sacrifices  unto  the  Lord  because  it  had  been  commanded,  even 
though  he  did  not  fully  understand  why,  and  even  though  it  meant 
a  considerable  financial  sacrifice  to  him.  Why  did  he  offer  sacri- 
fices— because  it  was  a  commandment  of  his  Heavenly  Father. 
He  had  been  told  to  perform  this  act  by  one  whom  he  knew  to  be 
his  God.  He  had  absolute  faith  and  confidence  that  blessings  would 
come  through  such  obedience,  and  he  did  not  hesitate.  After  he 
had  lived  the  law,  then  came  the  understanding,  for  the  miracle 
follows  the  faith  rather  than  faith  the  miracle.  The  angel  explained 
to  him  that  it  was  to  keep  him  in  constant  memory  of  the  coming 
of  the  Christ  who  would  save  the  world,  and  exalt  those  of  the 
people  who  would  live  the  commandments. 

Had  Adam  waited  until  he  could  have  fully  understood  and 
rationalized  the  program,  perhaps  in  the  meantime  his  family  would 
have  fallen  away  from  the  truth,  and  he  himself  might  have  lost 
his  faith.  He  needed  something  tangible — a  constant  sacrifice — to 
help  him  to  remember  the  coming  of  the  Savior  at  a  later  time.  And 
so  we  partake  of  the  sacrament  to  remind  us  of  the  sacrifice  that 
the  Savior  did  make,  and  now  we  may  pay  our  tithes  which  will  be 
a  constant  reminder  to  us  of  the  promises  and  the  requirements  of 
our  Heavenly  Father.  So  each  time  we  pay  our  tithes  it  is  a  per- 
sonal sacrifice  and  brings,  with  it  a  blessing  in  faith  and  closeness  to 
our  Heavenly  Father. 

The  Word  of  Wisdom 

Frequently  I  hear  people  talk  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and 
emphasize  the  fact  that  it  will  increase  the  period  of  their  lives  if 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

they  observe  it  strictly.  I,  also,  believe  that  it  is  the  Lord's  law  of 
health  and  that  it  will  extend  our  lives  and  will  give  us  better 
health  while  we  live.  But  that  is  not  the  reason  I  obey  the  law  of 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  I  wish  to  digress  to  emphasize  again 
that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  a  law.  From  this  very  pulpit  it  has 
been  declared  by  prophets  of  God  to  be  a  law — not  just  a  suggestion. 

President  Francis  M.  Lyman,  in  the  April  1908  general  con- 
ference said: 

...  I  believe  the  time  is  ripe  for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  particularly, 
to  place  themselves  in  accord  with  this  revelation,  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
which  was  given  in  the  beginning  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  as  a  Word  of 
Wisdom,  with  promises  which  are  very  precious.  In  the  beginning,  it 
was  not  laid  down  as  a  strict  commandment.  I  do  not  know  whether  or 
not  the  Lord  took  into  account  the  fact  that  our  forefathers,  and  our 
fathers  had  been  so  used  to  many  things  forbidden  in  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom that  it  might  be  difficult  for  them  to  order  their  lives  in  harmony 
with  those  requirements:  so  we  were  given  perhaps  thirty  to  forty  years 
of  training  and  experience  before  the  Lord  announced,  through  his 
servant  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young,  that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  has  now 
become  a  commandment  of  the  Lord.  President  Young  laid  it  down  very 
strictly  and  exactly  from  this  stand  that  from  that  time  henceforth  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  is  a  commandment  from  the  Lord,  and  all  Latter-day 
Saints  are  required  to  observe  it.  (Conference  Report,  April  1908,  14-15.) 

The  Lord  has  insisted  upon  our  refraining  from  the  use  of 
liquor,  tobacco,  and  tea  and  coffee.  I  am  sure  that  such  abstinence 
will  increase  the  length  of  our  lives  and  increase  the  vigor  of  our 
lives.  But  I  am  sure  that  a  deeper  value  comes  from  the  observance 
of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  than  the  mere  length  of  life,  for  after  all 
we  must  finally  all  pass  away.  The  time  will  come  when  our  bodies 
and  spirits  are  separated,  and  our  bodies  will  be  laid  in  Mother 
Earth  to  go  through  the  regular  process,  and  though  we  do  wish  to 
continue  our  mortal  existence  as  long  as  we  can  consistently,  I  am 
confident  that  there  are  greater  blessings  which  will  come  to  us 
than  the  strictly  physical. 

Obedience  Brings  Blessings 

When  I  refrain  from  the  use  of  these  forbidden  things,  I  am 
obeying  my  Heavenly  Father,  and  whether  or  not  I  understand 
the  purpose  I  will  still  receive  the  blessing.  The  Lord  has  promised 
to  all  of  us  who  obey  his  commandments  and  live  his  statutes  that 
all  that  he  has  is  ours.  The  living  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  a 
test.  Perhaps  he  chose  to  make  a  part  of  this  test  those  things 
which  would  be  universally  used  and  would  take  character  and 
courage  and  strength  to  leave  alone.  It  was  given  as  a  principle 
and  "...  adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the  weak  and  the  weakest  of 
all  saints,  who  are  or  can  be  called  saints."  (D.  &  C.  89:3.)  If  one 
obeys  the  Word  of  Wisdom  only  because  of  the  physical,  perhaps 
it  is  of  the  letter.  But  if  he  can  stand  the  test  and  prove  himself, 
that  he  will  obey  the  commands  of  God,  then  it  is  of  the  spirit,  and 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


87 


he  will  reap  rich  blessings.  There  may  be  other  things  which  are 
destructive  to  the  body,  but  since  the  Lord  through  his  prophets 
has  specifically  mentioned  certain  items,  then  these  we  must  refrain 
from  using.  Should  the  Lord  later  include  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
any  other  things  which  are  difficult,  we  will  also  obey  them. 

Law  of  the  Fast 

The  law  of  the  fast  is  another  test.  If  we  merely  go  without 
food  to  supply  welfare  funds,  it  is  much  of  the  letter,  but  in  real 
fasting,  for  spiritual  blessings,  come  self-mastery  and  increased 
spirituality. 

In  the  fourteenth  chapter  of  Luke  the  Lord  says, 

.  .  .  When  thou  makest  a  dinner  or  a  supper,  call  not  thy  friends, 
nor  thy  brethren,  neither  thy  kinsmen,  nor  thy  rich  neighbours;  lest  they 
also  bid  thee  again,  and  a  recompence  be  made  thee. 

But  when  thou  makest  a  feast,  call  the  poor,  the  maimed,  the  lame, 
the  blind: 

And  thou  shall  be  blessed;  for  they  cannot  recompense  thee:  for  thou 
shalt  be  recompensed  at  the  resurrection  of  the  just.  (Luke  14:12-14.) 

Are  we  interested  in  what  we  can  get  or  are  we  interested  in 
what  we  can  give?  The  Savior's  life  was  one  of  unselfish  service. 
The  Savior's  doctrine  and  gospel  is  one  of  selflessness.  Are  we 
interested  in  the  glamorous  and  in  the  spectacular?  Is  our  Church 
service  like  the  prayer  of  the  Pharisee  or  like  the  Publican?  You 
will  remember  the  Savior  gave  us  the  parable, 

Two  men  went  up  into  the  temple  to  pray;  the  one  a  Pharisee,  and 
the  other  a  publican. 

The  Pharisee  stood  and  prayed  thus  with  himself,  God,  I  thank 
thee,  that  I  am  not  as  other  men  are,  extortioners,  unjust,  adulterers,  or 
even  as  this  publican. 

I  fast  twice  in  the  week,  I  give  tithes  of  all  that  I  possess. 

And  the  publican,  standing  afar  off  Would  not  lift  up  so  much  as  his 
eyes  unto  heaven,  but  smote  upon  his  breast  saying,  God  be  merciful 
to  me  a  sinner. 

I  tell  you,  this  man  went  down  to  his  house  justified  rather  than 
the  other:  for  every  one  that  exalteth  himself  shall  be  abased;  and  he 
that  humbleth  himself  shall  be  exalted.  {Ibid.,  18:10-14.) 

The  Mansion 

In  his  booklet  The  Mansion,*  Henry  Van  Dyke  gives  us  a  most 
interesting  picture  of  the  type  of  man  who  prays  for  show  and  for 
his  great  words,  who  makes  his  gifts  where  they  will  bring  him 
personal  return,  who  serves  himself  first  and  his  neighbor  as  a  con- 
venience to  himself.  His  story  is  of  one  John  Weightman  who  lived 
in  a  large  stone  house  which  carried  the  air  of  calm  and  reserved 
opulence.  Like  his  house  he  was  a  self-made  man,  firm,  solid,  success- 


*See  Henry  Van  Dyke  The  Mansion,  pp.  16-23,  55ff.,  57-59. 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

ful.  The  stern  architecture  of  his  home  was  symbolical  of  his  social 
position,  religious  doctrine,  and  business  creed.  He  gave  generously 
to  established  charities.  There  were  foundations  which  he  estab- 
lished. He  gave  his  family  luxuries,  trips,  court  presentations,  sea- 
sons on  the  Riviera.  His  name  was  known  and  respected  far  and 
wide.  Over  a  hundred  million  dollars  had  sat  around  his  table  at 
banquets. 

Weightman  had  expressed  to  his  critical  son,  "I  have  never 
made  a  single  dollar  that  the  courts  would  not  uphold,  at  least  in 
the  long  run,  and  yet  my  affairs  have  prospered.  Not  one  of  my 
charities  but  has  brought  me  in  a  good  return,  either  in  the  increase 
of  influence,  the  building  up  of  credit,  or  the  association  with  sub- 
stantial people.  Of  course,  you  have  to  be  careful  how  you  give 
to  secure  the  best  results.  No  indiscriminate  giving,  no  pennies  in 
beggars'  hats." 

His  check  in  the  collection  plate  was  far  more  valuable  to  him 
than  an  equal  amount  in  cash  would  have  been.  He  identified  him- 
self with  all  public  drives  and  reminded  his  son,  "You  will  learn,  my 
boy,  that  it  is  wisdom  to  put  your  gifts  where  they  can  be  identified 
and  do  you  good  also." 

His  son  would  have  him  assist  a  sick  man  whose  business  was 
failing,  but  the  father  said,  "Give  him  a  few  hundred,  but  don't 
overwork  your  gratitude.  All  you'll  get  from  him  will  be  a  letter  of 
thanks.  Don't  get  sentimental.  Religion  is  not  a  matter  of  senti- 
ment, but  principle." 

When  the  son  had  left,  John  Weightman  sat  alone  in  his 
carved  chair  feeling  strangely  old  and  dull.  On  the  library  table 
were  clippings  praising  him  for  his  benevolence.  One  editor  called 
them  the  "Weightman  Charities."  There  were  hospitals  he  had 
endowed,  schools  he  had  helped,  community  enterprises  which  he 
had  fostered.  His  son's  denunciation  had  caused  him  to  think. 
Could  he  be  wrong  in  his  philosophy  of  life?  He  sat  at  the  table; 
the  opened  Bible  lay  before  him.  His  eyes  fell  upon  the  words, 
"Lay  not  up  for  yourselves  treasures  upon  earth  .  .  ."  then  sleep- 
ily, heavily,  he  tried  to  fix  his  mind  upon  it.  He  read  further,  "... 
but  lay  up  for  yourselves  treasures  in  heaven.  ..."  The  book  seemed 
to  float  away — the  light  vanished.  Could  this  be  death?  The  thought 
came  quietly,  irresistibly.  He  sank  to  the  table  and  slipped  into  the 
blank  unknown. 

His  life  seemed  to  be  returning  to  him  after  a  blank  interval, 
and  Mr.  Weightman  found  himself  in  a  strange  land  traversing 
paths  and  meeting  friendly  groups  clothed  in  white,  among  whom  he 
recognized  the  old  village  doctor,  a  plain,  hard-working,  self-sacri- 
ficing man.  Another  one  he  recognized  was  a  poor  bookkeeper  who 
had  slaved  through  the  years  to  care  for  a  crippled  daughter  while 
the  mother  was  in  an  institution  for  the  insane.  This  also  had  been 
a  life  of  sacrifice.  He  saw  a  widow  who  had  labored  long  and  with 
much  sacrifice  for  her  children;  a  schoolmaster  who  had  devoted 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


89 


himself  to  the  training  of  youth,  and  many  others  with  joyful 
countenances  and  light  steps — all  these  people  seemed  to  be  going 
to  the  Eternal  City  to  possess  their  mansions. 

As  the  stream  of  people  came  to  the  Holy  City,  a  robed  per- 
sonage welcomed  them.  "Come  in,  your  mansions  are  ready."  One 
by  one  the  individuals  left  the  party  and  entered  the  mansions 
which  were  prepared  for  them.  There  was  evidence  of  surprised 
joy,  as  though  their  buildings  were  lovelier  than  they  had  expected. 
From  within  came  sweet  voices  of  welcome,  low  laughter,  and 
sweet  songs. 

The  largest  mansion  and  the  most  beautiful  of  them  all  was  point- 
ed out  to  the  doctor  as  his,  and  John  Weightman  was  left  alone  with 
the  guide. 

"Where  do  you  wish  to  go?"  asked  the  guide.  And  Weightman 
recounted  his  many  charities,  his  gifts,  and  his  endowments,  and 
when  the  guide  stopped  before  a  rude  hut,  small  as  the  shepherd's 
shelter,  apparently  made  of  discarded  scraps  and  cast-off  materials, 
the  earth-man  was  shocked!  Surely  there  must  be  a  mistake!  He 
renamed  the  many  things  he  had  done  for  schools  and  churches 
and  hospitals,  and  the  angel-guide  said,  "We  have  saved  and  used 
everything  you  sent  to  us — this  is  the  mansion  prepared  for  you. 
All  the  things  you  did  on  earth — many  of  them  were  good — but 
verily  you  have  had  your  reward  for  them.  Would  you  be  paid 
twice?  The  good  you  accomplished  in  the  world  counted  where  you 
counted  it,  but  it  does  not  belong  here." 

The  deep,  searching,  flaming  look  of  the  guide  seemed  to  strip 
John  Weightman  naked  and  withered  him  as  he  winced  and  cried 
brokenly,  "Tell  me,  then,  if  my  life  has  been  of  such  little  worth, 
how  came  I  here  at  all?" 

"Through  the  mercy  of  the  King,"  it  came  softly. 

"Then  how  have  I  earned  it?"  John  asked. 

"It  was  not  earned — it  was — given.  Only  that  good  which  is 
done  for  the  love  of  duty,  only  those  plans  in  which  the  welfare  of 
others  is  the  master-thought,  only  those  labors  in  which  the  sacri- 
fice is  greater  than  the  reward,  only  those  gifts  in  which  the  giver 
forgets  himself.  Was  there  nothing  like  that  in  your  life?" 

"Nothing,"  he  sighed.  "If  so,  they  were  few,  and  I  have  long 
ago  forgotten  them." 

The  guide  smiled  gently,  "These  are  the  things  that  the  King 
never  forgets;  and  because  there  were  a  few  of  them  in  your  life, 
you  have  a  little  place  here." 

***** 

"John  Weightman's  numbness  prickled  into  normalcy.  Bodily 
weariness  and  lassitude  weighted  upon  him,  but  he  was  calm,  resolute, 
and  light  of  heart.  What  had  happened  to  him  he  knew  not.  But 
this  he  knew — great  truths  had  been  forced  into  his  consciousness." 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Dav 

This  man  Weightman,  like  many  of  the  moderns,  forgot  the 
admonition  of  the  Lord  when  he  said: 

But  when  thou  doest  alms,  let  not  thy  left  hand  know  what  thy 
right  hand  doeth:  That  thine  alms  may  be  in  secret:  and  thy  Father 
which  seeth  in  secret  himself  shall  reward  thee  openly.  (Matt.  6:3-4.) 

They  also  forget  that  the  Lord  said: 

And  when  thou  prayest,  thou  shalt  not  be  as  the  hypocrites  are; 
for  they  love  to  pray  standing  in  the  synagogues  and  in  the  corners  of 
the  streets,  that  they  may  be  seen  of  men.  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  They 
have  their  reward.  (Matt.  6:5.) 

They  forget  also  that  the  Lord  said  again: 

Moreover,  when  ye  fast,  be  not,  as  the  hypocrites,  of  a  sad  counte- 
nance: for  they  disfigure  their  faces,  that  they  may  appear  unto  men  to 
fast.  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  They  have  their  reward.  (Ibid.,  6:16.) 

Gratitude  for  Unselfishness 

I  am  grateful  that  all  through  this  great  Church  there  are 
many  people  who  live  unselfishly,  who  pray  in  the  quiet  of  their 
homes,  who  are  far  more  interested  in  paying  their  tithes,  of  which 
no  one  knows  except  their  bishop,  than  they  are  to  pay  large  con- 
tributions which  may  be  heralded  far  and  wide.  I  am  grateful  that 
there  are  numerous  people  in  this  Church  who  go  quietly  week  after 
week  to  attend  their  meetings;  worship  the  Lord  in  their  assemblies; 
bear  testimony  in  their  fast  meetings;  serve  faithfully  as  ward 
teachers,  stake  missionaries,  or  in  the  auxiliaries  or  priesthood  quo- 
rums without  glamor,  without  praise,  without  public  notice. 

God  bless  us,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  may  "seek  first  the 
kingdom,"  that  we  may  forget  all  else,  and  that  we  may  project  our- 
selves out  of  ourselves  into  the  great  world  of  service  to  our  fellow 
men,  realizing  that  after  all,  the  two  great  commandments  which 
the  Lord  gave  to  us  did  this  very  thing.  He  did  not  mention  our- 
selves, he  mentioned  others.  He  said, 

.  .  .  thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with 
all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind,  and  with  all  thy  strength;  .  .  .  love  thy 
neighbor  as  thyself.  (Mark  12:30-31.) 

All  of  this  is  service  to  others— love  of  others,  not  love  of  nor 
service  to  ourselves.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  that  we  may  be  un- 
selfish in  this  kingdom,  give  of  ourselves  generously  that  we  may  live 
by  the  spirit  rather  than  by  the  letter,  that  we  may  continue  to  rear 
large  families,  training  them  in  righteousness  to  the  end.  And  all 
this  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  congregation  arose  and  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  O  Thou 
King  of  Kings." 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  K1RKHAM 


91 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  sincerely  pray  that  I  may  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  as  I 
speak  to  you. 

George  Q.  Morris 

For  years  I  labored  at  the  side  of  Brother  George  Q.  Morris, 
the  absent  member  of  the  newly  sustained  brethren,  Assistants  to 
the  Twelve.  He  truly  is  a  noble  man,  a  devoted  man. 

I  would  like  to  pay  a  tribute  to  Brother  Morris.  Some  time  ago 
I  visited  a  university  in  the  South.  In  the  great  rotunda  of  that  uni- 
versity was  the  statue  of  a  man,  but  at  the  base  of  it  no  name  was 
carved.  All  that  was  said  was,  "A  Southern  Gentleman,"  and  on 
the  wall  on  a  bronze  plaque  were  these  words:  "Robert  E.  Lee,  on 
leaving  the  battlefield  lighted  from  his  horse  and  gave  help  to  a 
Union  soldier."  I  think  of  George  Q.  Morris  as  a  Latter-day  Saint 
gentleman,  one  of  the  very  finest  men  that  I  have  ever  met.  Thank 
God  for  the  contribution  of  his  fineness,  his  sturdy  testimony,  and 
his  helpfulness. 

In  the  Thirteenth  Article  of  Faith  we  find,  "If  there  is  anything 
virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after 
these  things."  Where  you  find  truth,  there  you  find  part  of  Mormon- 
ism;  we  seek  after  it. 

World  Jamboree  of  Boy  Scouts 

I  am  humbly  grateful  for  a  great  privilege  that  came  to  me  dur- 
ing this  last  summer,  when  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church 
allowed  me  to  fill  an  assignment  and  sustained  me  in  it  with  their 
blessing.  I  attended  the  World  Jamboree  of  Boy  Scouts.  I  want  to 
say  a  few  words  about  it,  for  I  sincerely  feel  that  it  has  in  it  hope; 
it  has  in  it  great  purpose. 

Seventeen  thousand  youth  of  the  world  came  to  camp  at  Bad 
Ischl,  Osterreich,  far  away  in  a  lovely  valley  in  the  heart  of  the 
Austrian  mountains.  They  came  from  forty-seven  nations  of  the 
world — seventeen  thousand  of  them.  It  was  truly  a  world  gathering 
of  youth. 

Men  are  looking  everywhere — serious  and  thoughtful  men — to 
see  if  there  isn't  something  positive  to  tie  to,  and  as  has  been  the 
history  of  youth  through  the  ages,  men  of  great  responsibility  have 
always  looked  to  them  for  help.  Yes,  I  love  to  think  that  it  was  a 
twelve-year-old  boy  who  was  in  the  temple,  challenging  the  wise 
men.  I  love  to  think  that  it  was  a  boy,  kneeling  at  the  sacred  Grove, 
whom  God  heard  and  through  whom  he  brought  in  this  dispensa- 
tion of  his  glorious  gospel. 

It  was  wonderful  to  see  these  chaps  come  from  all  over  the 
world  with  their  color,  their  enthusiasm,  their  desire  to  meet  their 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

fellows  from  everywhere.  The  leadership  of  this  gathering  had  put 
into  it  very  serious  purpose.  They  tried  to  fasten  the  ideals  that 
they  wanted  to  establish  around  three  great  words — friendship, 
brotherhood,  spirituality. 

Friendship  and  Brotherhood 

For  an  expression  of  friendship  Austria  lighted  on  seven  of 
her  highest  peaks  fires  of  friendship.  No  meals  were  eaten  without 
boys  of  other  lands  being  present.  Somewhere  in  the  group  at  their 
campfires  were  lads  that  had  been  invited  from  other  countries. 

When  the  closing  exercises  of  this  great  gathering  of  youth 
came,  we  were  invited  not  to  go  with  our  own  but  to  find  a  new 
friend.  That  night  I  took  to  the  campfire  a  dark-skinned  man  from 
Pakistan  and  a  man  from  Denmark.  We  watched  the  dying  embers 
of  a  great  campfire  fade  away,  then  from  a  high  tower  we  heard 
a  voice  saying,  "Soon  you  will  be  back  to  your  homes  again.  Do 
not  forget  you  have  made  new  friends;  you  have  found  new 
brothers." 

Then,  when  bands  were  playing,  and  finally  when  prayers  were 
offered,  out  from  that  high  tower  there  flew  four  hundred  homing 
pigeons,  and  all  of  them  circled  the  tower  and  then  flew  back  again 
to  their  homelands.  Austria  tried  to  say,  "So  you  must  go  back 
with  love  in  your  heart  from  this  camp  to  those  dear  to  you,  and 
may  God  help  you  to  take  the  message  to  all  of  friendship,  brother- 
hood, and  spirituality." 

Spirituality 

Spirituality  came  in  the  great  religious  services  of  the  churches 
of  the  world.  The  cardinal  of  Vienna  came  and  gave  mass  to 
thousands  of  boys.  The  archbishop  of  Austria  came  and  gave  his 
blessing  to  Protestant  boys.  A  Jewish  rabbi  from  Jerusalem  stimu- 
lated the  hearts  of  the  children  of  Israel.  These  boys  had,  just  a 
few  days  prior,  been  to  a  sacred  spot  where  sixty  thousand  Jews 
had  been  killed  during  the  recent  war. 

Latter-day  Saint  Gathering 

May  I  humbly  say  that  the  small  band  of  Latter-day  Saint 
youth  and  friends  rallied,  after  these  larger  gatherings  to  a  quiet 
spot  in  the  forest.  We  heard  the  story  from  two  Vienna  mothers 
who  said,  "When  you  get  home,  tell  your  brothers  that  we  are  so 
grateful  they  brought  us  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  when  the 
trials  were  very  difficult,  then  the  gospel  gave  us  strength."  These 
mothers  lived  only  a  few  miles  away  from  the  Iron  Curtain.  A 
brother  from  West  Germany  said,  "We  are  building  twelve  new 
meetinghouses.  Do  not  forget  us  in  your  prayers.  We  have  not 
lost  our  faith."  A  new  building  place  for  a  Latter-day  Saint  chapel 
has  been  purchased  near  Vienna  in  the  American  quarters. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


93 


A  man  one  day  said  to  me,  on  the  ship  going  over,  "Kirkham, 
I  want  to  know  something.  Today,  I  was  deeply  impressed.  I  saw 
two  of  your  boys  kneeling  when  you  had  your  sacrament  service, 
and  they  blessed  the  sacrament,  and  asked  the  Lord,  as  they  renewed 
their  covenants,  to  help  them  to  keep  his  commandments.  Won't  you 
sit  down  and  tell  me  more  about  this?  These  youth  have  definitely 
stimulated  me." 

A  thousand  doors  are  open.  Brethren  and  sisters,  everywhere 
the  world  is  hungry  for  the  word  of  God.  The  call  has  gone  forth. 
Rally  to  that  call.  I  love  the  testimony  of  Heber  C.  Kimball.  When 
the  Prophet  went  down  the  aisle  in  the  Kirtland  Temple  and  said 
to  him,  "Heber,  the  Lord  wants  you  to  open  up  the  mission  in 
England,"  he  replied:  "Oh,  but  my  tongue  is  stammering.  My 
family  is  in  want."  But  he  went,  and  fifteen  hundred  were  baptized 
in  the  first  eight  months  by  Heber  C.  Kimball. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  in  all  humility,  and  with  a  deep  prayer  in 
my  heart  because  of  this  lovely  experience,  I  know  the  world  is  now 
awaiting  the  word  of  God — Answer  the  call. 

God  be  with  us  as  we  bring  this  glorious  message  to  the  chil- 
dren of  the  earth,  that  the  blessings  we  enjoy  may  be  theirs  also, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  something  over  a  year  ago  when  Sister 
Sonne  and  I  boarded  the  great  ocean  liner  to  return  to  our  homes 
from  Europe,  the  news  was  flashed  to  the  passengers  that  Harry 
Lauder,  the  Scotch  comedian,  had  just  died.  We  read  in  the  paper 
the  next  day  something  about  Mr.  Lauder.  I  recall  now  that  he 
lost  his  only  son  in  the  Battle  of  the  Marne  in  World  War  I. 

Lauder  was  heartbroken.  He  was  inconsolable,  and  he  grieved 
much.  After  a  week  or  two  he  received  word  from  the  military 
authorities  that  he  might  visit  the  graveside  of  his  boy,  buried  over 
in  France.  Thereupon,  with  some  of  his  friends,  Harry  Lauder 
crossed  the  channel  and  went  to  the  cemetery  where  his  son  lay 
buried  beneath  the  sod  of  France. 

The  little  group  with  Mr.  Lauder  stood  around  the  graveside. 
Someone  in  the  group  said  in  a  whisper,  "I  wonder  if  God  weeps 
when  such  laddies  fall?" 

Harry  Lauder  stepped  forward.  He  looked  down  at  the  grave 
of  his  boy  and  said  to  those  assembled  there,  "When  a  man  has 
been  struck  as  I  have,  there  are  three  roads  open  to  him.  One  road 
leads  to  depravity  and  drink.  Another  road  leads  to  despair  and 
suicide.  A  third  road  leads  to  God.  I  am  determined  at  this  mo- 
ment to  take  the  road  that  leads  to  God." 

He  forgot  all  about  his  commercial  engagements;  and  he 
volunteered  his  services  to  the  British  and  American  armies  and 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

began  to  sing  his  Scotch  melodies  and  to  tell  his  stories  to  the 
British  and  American  soldiers. 


Unselfish  Service 

After  all,  brethren  and  sisters,  how  do  we  find  God  except  in 
the  service  of  our  fellow  men?  I  know  from  actual  experience  and 
observation  that  the  leaders  of  this  Church  are  unselfish  in  their 
service  and  in  their  devotion.  I  was  greatly  impressed  this  morning 
when  they  announced  the  additions  to  the  General  Authorities  of 
the  Church. 

For  more  than  ten  years  now  I  have  leaned  heavily  upon  my 
friend  and  associate,  Marion  G.  Romney.  As  a  result  I  have  come 
to  love  him  and  to  depend  upon  him,  and  when  I  went  over  to 
Europe,  it  was  Brother  Romney  with  whom  I  had  correspondence 
relative  to  the  distribution  of  welfare  supplies  in  the  countries 
across  the  sea,  and  together  he  and  I  and  others  have  sat  in  council 
many  times. 

I  thought  of  these  men  who  have  been  called  to  be  Assistants 
to  the  Quorum.  I  knew  President  George  Q.  Morris  for  many 
years  when  he  led  the  great  M.I. A.  movement.  He  used  to  come 
to  our  stake  when  my  chief  responsibility  was  with  that  organiza- 
tion. I  met  Brother  Stayner  Richards  forty  years  ago,  in  New- 
castle, England,  where  he  was  serving  as  a  missionary. 

I  have  also  met  the  other  brethren:  Brother  EIRay  L.  Chris- 
tiansen lives  in  my  home  town,  the  place  I  call  home,  and  the 
place  I  visit  occasionally  as  opportunity  permits.  I  know  some- 
thing about  his  work  in  the  Logan  Temple  and  in  the  East  Cache 
Stake  of  Zion.  I  can  truthfully  say  he  is  a  man  of  God. 

I  have  visited  the  stakes  of  Zion  with  Brother  John  Longden. 
I  have  heard  him  preach  the  gospel,  and  I  have  heard  him  sing 
the  gospel,  as  he  can  do.  Brethren  and  sisters,  the  Church  is 
growing  and  expanding.  It  has  never  gone  forward  at  a  more  rapid 
pace  than  it  is  at  this  moment. 

The  barriers  which  were  raised  against  it  at  one  time  are 
crumbling,  and  we  are  permitted  to  preach  the  gospel  in  the  lands 
of  the  free. 

A  Great  Church 

Just  before  leaving  London,  I  attended  a  district  conference. 
At  the  close  of  the  morning  session,  a  man  who  had  been  sitting 
in  the  audience  came  to  the  front.  In  a  loud  tone  of  voice,  so  every- 
one could  hear,  he  said,  "I  resent  the  audacity  of  your  claims,"  and 
he  followed  it  up  with  these  words:  "You  refer  to  yourselves  as  a 
great  church.  It  isn't  great,"  he  said.  "You  have  only  a  membership 
of  a  million.  I  belong  to  a  church  that  has  a  membership  of  two 
hundred  and  fifty  million." 

Then  a  young  man  stepped  forward.  He  was  a  missionary  of 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH  95 


the  Church  in  the  British  Mission.  Calmly  he  stepped  up  to  the 
man  and  said,  "Well,  from  a  standpoint  of  numbers  yours  is  a 
great  church,  perhaps  the  greatest  church  amongst  all  Christian 
denominations.  But,"  he  said,  "I  recall  that  at  one  time  the  primitive 
Church  which  was  established  by  the  Lord  Jesus  and  the  Twelve 
Apostles  was  but  a  small  group.  The  Savior  entrusted  his  gospel 
message  to  a  very  few  people,  most  of  them  unlearned  but  very 
humble." 

Then  the  young  elder  continued,  "That  primitive  Church, 
though  small  in  numbers,  was  nevertheless  a  great  Church.  It  was 
great  in  its  missionary  endeavor.  It  was  great  in  its  calling  to  preach 
the  gospel  to  the  civilized  world  of  that  day.  There  is  something 
in  a  church  that  makes  it  great  besides  its  numbers." 

Work  To  Go  Forward 

I  frequently  think  of  that  circumstance.  God's  work  will  go 
forward  in  the  earth.  I  am  sure  it  will  never  be  weaker  than  it  is 
today.  It  will  grow  in  strength  and  in  influence  until  this  gospel  of 
the  kingdom  has  been  preached  as  a  witness  in  all  the  world,  and 
until  every  knee  shall  bow  and  every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ. 

May  we,  you  and  I,  assist  in  this  great  enterprise,  and  may 
we  work  out  our  salvation  in  fear  before  our  Heavenly  Father,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH 

Former  President  of  the  Northern  California  Mission 

My  Brethren  and  Sisters,  it  is  certainly  a  high  honor  to  be 
called  to  occupy  this  pulpit,  and  I  pray  God,  my  Father,  that  he 
will  grant  me  utterance  while  I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Three  years  ago  in  President  Clark's  office,  he  said  to  me, 
"President  Ellsworth,  when  a  car  has  gone  77,000  miles,  the  bottom 
may  drop  out  anytime.  You  slow  down." 

Facetiously,  I  said,  "President  Clark,  I'm  not  as  old  as  you 

are. 

Then  he  said,  "Well,  what  is  the  difference?" 
I  said,  "Six  weeks."  (Laughter) 

I  went  back  to  the  mission  determined  to  build  another  eight 
or  ten  meeting  houses,  that  they  might  be  rallying  spots  where 
hundreds  of  the  sons  and  grandsons  of  the  Church  who  have 
wandered  away  without  anchor  from  the  Church,  might  meet. 
When  President  Clark  set  me  apart  ten  years  ago  he  especially 
blessed  me  that  I  might  have  power  to  gather  up  the  lost  sheep  of 
the  Church.  People  who  had  moved  and  settled  in  the  northern 
part  of  California  without  regard  to  any  organization  of  the  Church. 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Dan 

In  and  around  San  Francisco  there  was  a  feeling  among  the 
people  that  they  were  going  to  move  away  from  the  Coast  because 
of  the  impending  war,  but  when  we  established  the  mission  house 
in  San  Francisco,  they  seemed  to  settle  down  and  accept  the  situa- 
tion as  a  place  of  safety.  In  looking  over  the  mission  we  found 
not  more  than  3500  people  who  had  any  affiliation  with  the  Church. 
When  we  left  the  mission  seven  and  a  half  years  later,  it  had  grown 
to  approximately  ten  thousand.  Branches  that  had  been  branches 
for  years  and  years  had  no  home  of  their  own  in  which  to  worship. 

In  Klamath  Falls,  Oregon,  75  to  100  people  were  meeting  in 
the  basement  of  the  city  library.  I  asked  the  president  of  the  branch, 
"How  long  have  you  been  meeting  in  this  basement?"  He  said, 
"Eleven  years." 

I  said,  "Eleven  years  too  long,"  and  placed  another  man  in 
charge  of  the  branch  with  a  commission  to  build  a  house. 

Even  though  the  war  was  on  they  procured  material  by  wreck- 
ing an  old  lumber  drying  building,  and  built  a  beautiful  meeting 
house.  From  a  letter  received  yesterday,  they  have  now  800  mem- 
bers in  that  branch.  I  never  saw  more  than  75  to  100  before  they 
had  a  chapel  of  their  own. 

The  Santa  Rosa  Branch,  50  miles  north  of  San  Francisco,  had 
been  a  branch  for  40  years,  with  attendance  of  75  to  100  at  our 
conferences  in  old  lodge  halls.  Now,  after  three  or  four  years  in 
their  own  building  it  is  the  center  of  a  stake,  with  four  or  five 
hundred  members  in  the  ward. 

That  was  true  all  over  the  mission.  We  built  12  new  chapels, 
remodeled  seven  others  and  procured  building  lots  in  13  other 
branches.  The  Lord  blessed  us.  We  gave  all  we  had,  and  unques- 
tionably a  little  more  because  of  my  present  nervous  condition. 

The  last  two  years  we  have  been  fighting  to  get  back,  and  I 
praise  the  Lord  that  we  have  gotten  nearly  all  the  way  back. 

Fifty-five  years  ago  I  sat  in  a  boat  in  San  Diego  Harbor  with 
President  Wilford  Woodruff.  I  was  on  my  first  mission  in  Cali- 
fornia, and  at  that  time  the  mission  president  was  delivering  a 
beautiful  sermon  on  the  head  and  horns  of  Daniel.  I  was  a  new 
missionary  and  it  worried  me,  so  I  said  to  President  Woodruff,  by 
whose  side  I  was  sitting  in  the  boat,  "President  Woodruff,  how 
about  the  head  and  horns  of  Daniel?" 

He  turned  and  put  his  arm  around  me,  patted  me  on  the 
shoulder  and  said,  "Brother  Ellsworth,  you  have  a  long  missionary 
life  ahead  of  you,  and  if  you  will  stay  as  far  away  from  the  head 
and  horns  as  you  can  you  will  never  get  hooked."  The  mysteries 
of  the  head  and  horns  have  never  bothered  me  from  that  day. 

I  remember  that  when  I  first  got  a  call  to  go  on  a  mission,  I  was 
laying  plans  to  go  to  medical  college.  It  was  quite  a  difficult  de- 
cision. It  took  all  my  hard-earned  money  to  fill  my  first  mission. 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH  97 


On  that  mission  things  changed  in  my  life.  I  found  God.  With  my 
eyes  opened,  the  Lord  blessed  me  with  miracle  after  miracle. 

In  thinking  back  over  the  miracles  today,  having  labored  with 
nearly  2500  young  men  and  women  in  the  mission  field,  the  greatest 
miracle  of  my  life  is  the  transformation  that  comes  into  the  lives 
of  young  men  and  women  under  the  power  and  influence  of  the 
Spirit  of  God.  Truly  it  is  a  miracle  for  something  to  touch  the 
hearts  of  young  men  and  young  women  as  the  Gospel  does. 

Going  back  in  my  life  I  can  remember  the  impression  made 
upon  me  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  where  we  used  to  sing,  "Come 
all  ye  sons  of  God  who  have  received  the  priesthood;"  "Ye  who 
are  called  to  labor  in  the  ministry  for  God;"  "You  are  the  true 
born  sons  of  Zion,  who  with  them  none  can  compare;"  "You  are 
the  royal  seed  of  Joseph,  the  bright  and  the  glorious  morning  star." 
Throughout  my  life  1  have  tried  to  impress  upon  the  young  men 
and  young  women  with  whom  we  have  associated  to  remember 
who  they  are,  that  no  people  in  all  the  world  know  who  they  are 
like  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  patriarchs  of  the  Church  have 
pointed  it  out  to  everyone  who  has  solicited  a  blessing,  from  them, 
that  they  were  reserved  in  Heaven  to  come  to  earth  at  this  particular 
time,  when  the  gospel  was  in  the  earth  that  they  had  a  special 
mission  as  sons  of  God  to  help  establish  his  kingdom  in  the  earth. 

It  was  hard  to  go  on  my  second  mission.  In  fact  we  moved 
away  from  Salt  Lake  County  because  the  then  stake  president, 
O.  P.  Miller,  had  us  out  nearly  every  night  on  some  work  for  the 
Church. 

One  night  when  I  came  home  my  wife  said,  half-disgustedly, 
"If  we  do  not  move  away  from  here  you  will  be  fulfilling  your 
prophecy,  and  I  will  be  a  missionary  widow  in  less  than  five  years." 
The  statement  was  made  to  her  the  day  before  we  were  married. 
So  we  moved  from  Salt  Lake  County  to  Lehi,  Utah  County  in  June. 
In  February  following  I  attended  a  conference  in  American  Fork. 

At  the  close  of  the  meeting  the  stake  president  called  me  up 
and  introduced  me  to  Mathias  F.  Cowley,  who  said,  "Brother  Ells- 
worth, while  I  was  talking  I  felt  like  you  were  wanted  in  the 
Northern  States  on  a  mission.  Will  you  go  if  you  are  called?" 

I  said,  "Brother  Cowley,  I  have  been  home  only  a  little  over 
four  years." 

He  said,  "I  don't  care  if  you  have  been  home  only  four  weeks. 
You  are  wanted  in  the  Northern  States  on  a  mission." 

The  bishop,  who  was  a  close  associate  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  said,  "Brother  Ellsworth,  it  is  a  financial  tragedy  for  you 
to  go  on  a  mission.  I  have  fifty  men  in  this  ward,  who  can  go  more 
easily  than  you.  I  am  with  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  almost  every 
day,  and  one  word  from  me  and  you  won't  have  to  go." 

I  said,  "Bishop,  don't  you  say  it.  I  do  not  have  anything,  but 
all  I  have  is  on  the  altar." 

When  I  met  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  I  told  him  of  my  desire 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

to  be  a  medical  man.  He  looked  me  straight  in  the  eye,  and  said, 
"Brother  Ellsworth,  your  life  is  in  the  ministry.  You  go  on  this 
mission  and  be  a  doctor  of  souls." 

A  year  later  I  was  called  by  telegram  to  preside  over  the 
mission  of  six  states  and  part  of  Canada  and  170  missionaries. 

My  predecessor  had  been  getting  three  or  four  hundred  dollars 
a  quarter  to  help  carry  the  expenses  of  the  mission  and  pay  return 
fares  of  missionaries.  Sister  Ellsworth  and  I  made  a  pledge  that 
we  would  try  to  carry  the  mission  without  any  help  from  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  I  think  we  hurt  ourselves  in  trying  to  do  so,  especially  in 
a  crowded  mission  home  and  the  many  long  over  night  trips  in  poor 
railroad  chair  cars.  It  was  a  strenuous  job  but  the  Lord  was  good 
to  us  and  we  were  grateful  for  the  opportunity  of  serving  him  as 
well  as  being  near  where  my  people  first  joined  the  Church. 

My  grandfather,  German  Ellsworth,  was  buried  in  the  Salt 
Lake  Cemetery  a  hundred  and  two  years  ago,  leaving  my  father, 
six  weeks  old  and  a  mother  with  six  children  older  than  himself. 
All  we  knew  of  the  Ellsworth  genealogy  was  from  the  Salt  Lake 
Cemetery  record,  that  German,  the  son  of  I.  Ellsworth  was  from 
Michigan. 

We  became  interested  in  genealogy,  my  wife  doing  the  work, 
like  she  has  done  most  of  the  work  in  rearing  our  children  in  my 
absence,  because  year  after  year,  if  I  was  in  Chicago  one  or  two 
Sundays  a  year,  that  was  about  all. 

With  the  assistance  of  a  genealogist  interested  in  the  Ells- 
worth name  Sister  Ellsworth  gathered  approximately  1500  Ells- 
worth family  names.  Later  after  we  were  released,  she  went  to 
England  and  returned  with  more  than  1000  Ellsworth  names  as 
well  as  a  checkup  on  three  or  four  thousand  of  her  parents'  line. 
The  temple  work  for  both  the  Ellsworth  line  and  the  Jesse  Smith 
line  including  600  of  my  mother's  Swedish  line  has  been  largely 
completed.  We'  are  truly  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  his  wonderful 
blessings  and  in  shaping  our  lives  so  that  we  could  do  all  this  work. 

In  the  Northern  California  Mission  we  enjoyed  ourselves 
greatly.  The  work  was  rather  heavy,  and  we  were  just  a  little  bit 
old;  too  old  for  government  work.  Sister  Ellsworth  had  two  terrible 
experiences  with  cancer,  one  cured  by  operation  and  the  other 
through  administration.  In  1947  she  had  a  stroke  in  her  right  side 
and  a  few  weeks  ago  one  in  her  left  leg.  Today  we  are  continuing 
our  work,  in  gathering  up  lost  ends  of  our  genealogical  Ellsworth 
and  Smith  lines  for  work  in  the  temple. 

God  has  been  wonderfully  kind  to  us.  My  wife  has  reared  a 
wonderful  family.  Six  children  were  born  to  us  while  we  were 
in  Chicago.  Three  of  them  died,  but  we  have  six  living,  and  all 
six  of  them  have  had  college  work,  five  of  them  have  filled  missions. 
All  married  in  the  temple,  and  all  are  working  in  the  Church  today, 
largely  due  to  the  counsel  and  love  given  by  a  wonderful  mother. 

Today  the  Brethren  here  praise  their  wives,  and  I  think  they 


ELDER  GERMAN  E.  ELLSWORTH  99 

t 


are  justly  entitled  to  it,  for  the  Lord  said  to  Sister  Ellsworth, 
through  the  interpretation  of  tongues,  one  time  in  a  meeting  in 
Lehi,  "I  the  Lord  love  the  women  of  Zion  above  all  other  women 
in  the  earth  for  their  willingness  to  bear  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
men,  and  when  they  have  finished  their  missions  here  upon  the 
earth  they  will  be  twice  blessed,  and  crowned  in  my  kingdom  above 
all  other  women." 

I  thank  God  for  the  women  of  Zion,  and  for  the  wonderful 
mothers  that  have  helped  to  build  this  Church  in  the  earth. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  "We  are  the  true  born  sons  of  Zion, 
who  with  us  can  compare?  The  royal  seed  of  Joseph,  the  bright  and 
glorious  morning  star,"  and  the  development  and  teaching  of  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  Zion  as  put  out  by  President  Clark  depends 
largely  upon  the  women. 

John  Henry  Smith's  wife  one  time  said  to  us  in  the  mission  field 
that  she  had  had  a  great  ambition  to  keep  her  children  close  to  the 
Lord.  She  said,  "Why,  if  any  of  them  fails,  people  will  say,  'See 
who  her  mother  was — just  Sarah  Farr.'  If  they  amount  to  any- 
thing they  are  John  Henry  Smith's  children." 

Well,  I  think  if  our  sons  and  grandsons  amount  to  anything  it 
will  be  because  of  the  powerful  example  and  powerful  teachings 
and  the  deep  spirituality  of  my  wife  Mary  Smith  Ellsworth. 

God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  help  us  keep  our  children 
close  to  us.  Had  we  been  able  to  do  this — keep  our  children  close — 
there  would  now  be  no  Adult  Aaronic  Priesthood — we  would  not 
necessarily  need  converts  from  the  world  in  order  to  build  the 
Kingdom  of  God. 

All  our  sons  and  daughters  were  happy  when  the  time  came 
that  they  could  go  to  the  temple.  Our  eldest  daughter  at  sixteen 
took  her  endowments.  She  went  through  college.  She  suffered 
at  times  some  little  inconveniences,  but  she  thanks  God  today  for 
the  sobering  influence  that  came  into  her  life  through  the  holy 
temple  covenants  and  obligations.  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  told 
me  one  time  that  the  greatest  power  and  influence  that  ever  came 
into  his  life  was  his  temple  endowments  at  a  very  early  age.  Presi- 
dent John  Henry  Smith  and  President  Francis  M.  Lyman  both  bore 
testimony  to  me  of  what  their  early  endowments  meant  in  their  lives. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  absolutely 
true.  Its  foundation  was  laid  by  God  our  Father.  We  are  his  sons 
and  daughters,  and  upon  our  shoulders  rests  the  responsibility  of 
carrying  the  message  of  the  restored  gospel  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth.  May  God  help  us  to  do  it  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

German  E.  Ellsworth,  veteran  missionary  of  the  Church,  has 
just  spoken  to  us. 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

The  congregation  will  now  sing:  "God  Be  With  You  Till  We 
Meet  Again,"  conducted  by  Richard  P.  Condie. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  A.  R.  Curtis, 
Patriarch  to  the  Highland  Stake,  after  which  this  conference  will 
stand  adjourned  until  seven  o'clock  this  evening,  at  which  time  the 
general  meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church  will  be  held.  Only 
those  holding  the  priesthood  are  invited  to  be  present.  That  session 
will  not  be  broadcast. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  on  which  Elder  Matthew 
Cowley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  the  speaker  will  begin 
at  eight  o'clock  tomorrow  morning.  Those  desiring  to  attend  this 
broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  at  7:50  a.m.  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
broadcast  will  be  given  from  nine  to  nine-thirty  tomorrow  morning. 
Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  by 
8:50  a.m.,  ten  minutes  to  nine. 

The  regular  session  of  the  conference  will  begin  at  ten  o'clock 
tomorrow  morning. 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  meeting,  after  singing  and  benediction, 
the  general  sessions  of  the  conference  will  be  adjourned  until  ten 
o'clock  Sunday  morning  for  the  general  public. 

We  will  now  sing:  "God  Be  With  You  'Till  We  Meet  Again." 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "God  Be  With  You  'Till 
We  Meet  Again." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

I  am  reminded  that  there  will  be  overflow  meetings  this  night 
(Priesthood  meeting)  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall.  At 
both  places,  we  are  informed,  there  will  be  television. 

A.  R.  Curtis,  Patriarch  to  the  Highland  Stake,  will  now  offer  the 
benediction. 


Elder  A.  R.  Curtis,  Patriarch  to  the  Highland  Stake,  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00  Sunday  morning. 

THIRD  DAY 
CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  was  presented  Sunday  morning, 
October  7,  from  8:00  to  8:30  over  radio  station  KSL  and  the  Colum- 
bia Broadcasting  System,  with  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  as  the  speak- 
er.   The  following  is  a  report  of  this  broadcast: 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


101 


The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  leadership  of  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, furnished  the  music  for  this  service.  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at 
the  Organ.  Richard  L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air  is  presented  by  the  CBS 
Radio  Network  so  that  men  of  different  faiths  may  speak  to  a  nation- 
wide organization.  Today's  program,  presented  in  conjunction  with 
the  Semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  comes  to  you  from  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  .Square, 
through  the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City.  The  speaker 
will  be  Matthew  Cowley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of 
the  Church.  Music  is  provided  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  under  the 
direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Frank  Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

The  Choir  opens  with  a  harvest  hymn:  "Come,  Ye  Thankful 
People,  Come,"  followed  by  Ebenezer  Beesley's  music  with  the  words 
of  Charles  W.  Penrose:  "God  of  our  Fathers  we  come  unto  Thee, 
Children  of  those  whom  Thy  truth  has  made  free.  Grant  us  the  joy 
of  Thy  Presence  today,  never  from  thee  let  us  stray." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Come,  Ye  Thankful  People" — Elvey) 
(The  Choir  sang:  "God  of  Our  Fathers" — Beesley) 
Announcer:  We  shall  hear  on  this  Church  of  the  Air  service, 
Matthew  Cowley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Matthew  Cowley  was 
a  lawyer  by  profession  before  he  came  to  his  present  church  position. 
He  has  titled  today's  talk  with  a  scriptural  text:  "Man  Shall  Not 
Live  By  Bread  Alone." 

i 

ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  matter  we  discuss  briefly  this  Sabbath  morning  I  trust  shall 
not  be  considered  as  too  far  removed  from  practical  application  to 
command  your  interest.  The  subject  of  this  discussion  was  suggested 
by  an  episode  in  the  early  ministry  of  our  Lord,  and  the  title  is  taken 
from  the  memorable  words  addressed  to  His  adversary  on  that  occa- 
sion. 

"Man  Shall  Not  Live  by  Bread  Alone" 

It  will  be  recalled  that  soon  after  His  baptism  by  John  in  the 
waters  of  Jordan,  Jesus  retired  into  the  wilderness  where  He  sought 
communion  with  His  Father.  During  this  period  of  voluntary  seclu- 
sion He  engaged  Himself  in  prayer  and  fasting.  At  the  end  of  forty 
days,  during  which  His  body  had  been  without  bread  or  other  physi- 
cal sustenance,  the  tempter  appeared  and  challenged  Him  to  exer- 
cise His  Divine  Power  to  provide  food  for  His  famished  body,  with 
these  words,  "If  thou  be  the  Son  of  God,  command  that  these  stones 
be  made  bread."  (Matthew  4:3.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Da:) 


Suffering  though  He  was  from  extreme  physical  weakness  in- 
duced by  prolonged  hunger,  the  Master  quickly  discerned  the  treach- 
ery behind  the  tempting  suggestion  and  the  danger  of  providing 
bread  on  the  terms  proposed.  Knowing  that  the  strategy  of  the 
tempter's  challenge  would  mean  the  provision  of  physical  sustenance 
alone,  to  the  exclusion  of  spiritual  requirements,  Jesus  immediately 
replied,  "Man  shall  not  live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word  that 
proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of  God."  (Matthew  4:4.) 

During  forty  long  days  he  had  been  constantly  aware  that  not 
only  does  the  body  of  man  need  bread,  but  that  the  spirit  of  man 
needs  God.  Even  without  bread  during  an  extended  fast,  com- 
munion with  God  sustained  the  Son  of  God  though  He  suffered  the 
throes  of  hunger  like  unto  a  son  of  man. 


Later  in  His  ministry  Christ  was  to  remind  His  disciples  that 
the  soul  of  man  was  worth  more  than  bread,  more  even  than  the 
wealth  of  the  world.  He  said  to  them,  "For  what  is  a  man  profited, 
if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world  and  lose  his  own  soul?  or  what  shall 
a  man  give  in  exchange  for  his  soul?"  (Matthew  16:26.) 

A  man's  soul  is  too  exorbitant  a  price  to  pay  for  bread  alone, 
even  if  the  whole  world  is  his  loaf. 

A  man's  worldly  wealth  may  determine  his  social  standing, 
which  side  of  the  tracks  he  will  live  on,  which  school  his  children 
will  attend,  which  golf  club  he  will  belong  to,  the  horsepower  of 
his  car,  and  which  pew  he  will  occupy  in  his  church;  but  it  is  not  the 
sole  determining  factor  as  to  the  fulness  of  his  life.  That  is  deter- 
mined not  by  his  material  possessions,  nor  by  his  lack  of  them,  but 
by  his  living  by  the  words  that  proceed  out  of  the  mouth  of  God. 

The  supreme  joy  of  living  cannot  be  measured  by  a  man's 
financial  rating.  It  can  be  measured  only  by  his  willingness  to  accept 
a  divine  influence  as  the  controlling  force  in  his  life.  Neither  the 
millionaire  nor  the  pauper  can  live  by  bread  alone,  but  both  can  live 
and  enjoy  living  to  the  fullest  degree  if  they  will  accept  the  spiritual 
influences  that  sustain  the  soul  of  man. 


In  unfurnished  thatch-roofed  huts  in  the  South  Seas  I  have 
witnessed  greater  peace  of  mind,  more  happiness  and  contentment, 
enjoyed  by  simple  natives  than  exists  in  too  many  of  the  luxuriously 
appointed  mansions  of  the  rich. 

In  the  humble  native  hut  man  is  not  existing  by  bread  alone. 
The  words  of  God  play  a  great  part  in  the  program  of  his  living. 
Each  day  is  commenced  by  invoking  the  blessings  of  heaven  upon 
himself  and  his  family,  and  at  the  close  of  each  day  prayers  of 
gratitude  are  offered  for  blessings  received. 

His  profound  knowledge  of  sacred  books,  which  may  be  the 


Worth  of  the  Soul 


Happiness  in  Word  of  God 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


103 


only  literature  translated  into  his  native  tongue,  is  his  most  prized 
possession.  The  great  value  he  places  upon  divinely  inspired  litera- 
ture may  be  appreciated  when  one  hears  him  say  these  words  about 
his  European  brother:  "When  the  white  man  came  to  these  islands 
we  had  the  land  and  he  had  the  Bible.  Now  after  a  hundred  years 
he  has  the  land  and  we  have  the  Bible,  and  we  are  still  richer  than 
he."  His  bread  gives  sustenance  to  his  physical  being  only.  The 
words  of  God  give  life  to  his  soul. 

Gold  Without  God 

On  the  other  hand,  in  the  homes  where  there  is  an  abundance 
of  the  material  things  that  gold  will  provide  and  where  divine  prin- 
ciples are  rejected — where  man  is  striving  to  live  by  bread  alone — 
there  may  be  an  excessive  gratification  of  physical  appetites,  but 
there  cannot  be  a  fulness  of  living. 

There  is  deep  damnation  in  the  possession  of  gold  without  God. 

The  sorrow,  the  fear,  the  frustration  and  confusion  which  beset 
men  all  about  us  may  be  traced  to  an  impulse,  which  is  not  restrained, 
to  live  by  bread  alone.  Disruption  of  family  ties,  moral  degeneration, 
addiction  to  the  use  of  stimulants  and  narcotics,  dishonesty  in  deal- 
ing with  one's  fellow  men,  and  all  other  manner  of  crimes  and  vice 
are  the  natural  concomitants  to  a  bread-alone  diet. 

If  living  is  not  tempered  by  the  divine  will,  man  is  not  pre- 
pared to  face  unexpected  losses  of  wealth  and  other  forms  of  ad- 
versity. He  finds  it  impossible  to  step  down  from  living  with  the 
Joneses,  and  his  life  becomes  of  so  little  value  that  he  takes  it  by  his 
own  hand.  I  need  not  remind  you  of  the  high  incidence  of  suicide 
which  cuts  down  the  lives  of  men  of  financial  means  who  thought 
they  could  live  by  bread  alone.  They  simply  cannot  make  the  ad- 
justment when  the  rations  are  reduced.  Neither  need  I  call  to  your 
attention  the  unethical,  immoral,  illegal  and  gangster  methods  which 
have  recently  been  exposed  by  investigating  committees,  as  the 
means  whereby  men  in  both  high  and  low  places  give  their  souls 
in  exchange  for  the  goods  of  the  world.  Even  their  country's  soul 
is  considered  not  to  be  too  high  a  price  to  pay. 

National  Spiritual  Needs 

If  the  individual  cannot  live  by  bread  alone,  neither  can  the 
nation.  This  great  country  owes  its  birth  and  preservation  to  men 
who  were  guided  by  spiritual  values.  The  Pilgrim  fathers  who  first 
set  foot  upon  the  rugged  shores  of  New  England  and  the  great 
pioneers  who  conquered  the  mountains  and  deserts  from  the  Atlantic 
to  the  Pacific  were  men  of  God.  They  survived  the  hunger  and 
hardships  incident  to  colonizing  and  pioneering  because  they  were 
motivated  by  a  quest  for  God  rather  than  by  a  lust  for  gold. 

They  penetrated  the  forests  and  pushed  on  to  forbidding  waste 
lands  with  confidence  that  with  the  help  of  God  they  would  live, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dan 


and  that  without  His  help  they  would  perish.  They  broke  the 
scorched  earth,  turned  the  virgin  soil,  planted  their  crops  and  then 
called  upon  God  to  bring  forth  the  harvest.  They  lived  by  His 
words  and  He  provided  them  with  sustenance. 


History  records  the  decline  and  fall  of  great  nations  and  em- 
pires, both  ancient  and  modern,  which  have  rejected  God  and  denied 
man  the  right  to  live  in  accordance  with  His  divine  will. 

The  institutions  of  our  own  nation,  which  were  founded  by  men 
who  invoked  divine  aid,  may  be  lost  to  future  generations  if  the 
lessons  of  history  are  ignored.  If  God  loses  control  in  the  affairs  of 
this  great  nation,  the  decline  and  decay  of  its  structure  of  freedom 
and  liberty  will  surely  follow.  The  loss  of  its  soul  will  be  inevitable 
because  ours  is  a  nation  which  cannot  survive  on  material  values 
alone. 

To  say  that  "it  can't  happen  here"  is  to  disregard  the  destruc- 
tive forces  of  evil  that  are  abroad  in  the  land.  If  credence  can  be 
given  to  recent  reports,  then  never  before  has  the  underworld  wielded 
the  influence  that  it  does  today.  Its  tentacles  are  reaching  into  the 
vitals  of  society  on  every  level,  into  business  institutions  both  large 
and  small,  and  into  both  local  and  federal  governments.  The  com- 
placent attitude  of  decent  people  toward  these  diabolical  practices 
indicates  an  almost  universal  rejection  of  God  as  the  sustaining  force 
in  the  lives  of  men. 


At  another  time  in  the  Nation's  history  when  men  were  trying 
to  live  by  bread  alone  and  were  forgetting  God,  Abraham  Lincoln 
issued  a  timely  proclamation  which  reads  as  follows: 

"And  whereas  it  is  the  duty  of  nations  as  well  as  of  men,  to 
own  their  dependence  upon  the  overruling  power  of  God,  to  confess 
their  sins  and  transgressions,  in  humble  sorrow,  yet  with  assured 
hope  that  genuine  repentance  will  lead  to  mercy  and  pardon;  and  to 
recognize  the  sublime  truth,  announced  in  the  holy  scriptures  and 
proven  by  all  history,  that  those  nations  only  are  blessed  whose 
God  is  the  Lord. 

"And,  insomuch  as  we  know  that  by  His  divine  law  nations, 
like  individuals,  are  subjected  to  punishments  and  chastisements  in 
this  world,  may  we  not  justly  fear  that  the  awful  calamity  of  war 
which  now  desolates  the  land  may  be  but  a  punishment  inflicted  upon 
us  for  our  presumptuous  sins,  to  the  needful  end  of  our  national 
reformation  of  a  whole  people?  We  have  been  the  recipients  of  the 
choicest  bounties  of  heaven;  we  have  grown  in  numbers,  wealth,  and 
power  as  no  other  nation  has  ever  grown.  But  we  have  forgotten 
God.  We  have  forgotten  the  gracious  hand  which  preserved  us  in 


Lessons  of  History 


Lincoln's  Proclamation 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


105 


peace  and  multiplied  and  enriched  and  strengthened  us,  and  we  have 
vainly  imagined,  in  the  deceitfulness  of  our  hearts,  that  all  these 
blessings  were  produced  by  some  superior  wisdom  and  virtue  of  our 
own.  Intoxicated  with  unbroken  success,  we  have  become  too  self- 
sufficient  to  feel  the  necessity  of  redeeming  and  preserving  grace, 
too  proud  to  pray  to  the  God  that  made  us." 

Present  Spiritual  Needs 

This  proclamation,  which  was  timely  in  Lincoln's  day,  is  cer- 
tainly not  untimely  in  our  own.  How  well  he  himself  knew  the  futil- 
ity of  trying  to  live  by  bread  alone.  Often  in  his  own  life,  as  he  was 
wont  to  say,  "I  went  to  my  knees  because  I  had  nowhere  else  to  go." 
In  his  darkest  hours  he  sought  the  sustaining  influence  which  comes 
from  God. 

Is  it  out  of  order  to  assert  that  we  need  that  divine  influence 
and  regenerating  force  in  this  day  just  as  the  nation  did  in  Lincoln's 
time?  Are  we  not  passing  through  times  more  perilous  than  the 
darkest  days  of  the  Civil  War? 

Our  nation  is  spending  billions  for  defense  against  enemies 
beyond  our  borders  yet,  may  I  ask,  what  have  we  to  defend  if  ene- 
mies within  our  borders  are  permitted  to  stalk  abroad  in  the  land 
and  destroy  our  faith  in  God  and  induce  us  to  live  by  bread  alone? 
Is  it  not  time  that  we  all,  like  Lincoln,  go  to  our  knees  and  ask  God 
to  implement  our  armaments  with  His  power  and  to  give  us  the  will 
to  stem  the  tide  which  is  carrying  men  to  Caesar  and  turning  them 
from  God? 

Origin  of  American  System 

An  editor  of  Fortune  Magazine,  writing  in  the  issue  of  January, 
1940,  had  this  to  say,  and  I  quote  only  in  part: 

"By  no  conceivable  set  of  circumstances  could  materialism  have 
produced  the  great  'solution'  of  the  Eighteenth  Century  that  we  have 
come  to  know  as  the  American  System.  The  American  System  has 
its  origin,  on  the  one  hand,  in  passionate  religious  sects  who  believed 
in  the  spiritual  absolutes  that  today  are  lacking;  and  on  the  other 
hand  in  those  rationalists  of  the  Golden  Age  of  the  American  colonies 
for  whom  reason  was  not  merely  mechanistic  but  divine.  Similarly, 
by  no  conceivable  set  of  circumstances,  will  it  be  possible  to  solve 
by  materialism  the  titanic  problems,  domestic  and  international,  with 
which  humanity  is  faced  today.  The  ultimate  answers  to  the  questions 
that  humanity  raises  are  not,  and  never  have  been,  in  the  flesh." 

In  seeking  a  solution  to  our  present  difficulties,  he  concludes: 

"The  way  out  is  the  sound  of  a  voice,  not  our  voice,  but  a  voice 
coming  from  something  not  ourselves,  in  the  existence  of  which  we 
cannot  disbelieve.  .  .  .  Without  it  we  are  no  more  capable  of  saving 
the  world  than  we  were  capable  of  creating  it  in  the  first  place," 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Day 

The  Word  of  God 

If  man  in  his  seeking  for  the  word  of  God  does  not  find  it,  it 
is  not  because  God  has  withdrawn  from  man,  but  because  man  has 
withdrawn  from  God.  I  bear  testimony  that  he  has  not  left  us 
without  direction.  Both  in  times  of  old  and  in  our  generation  His 
voice  has  declared  the  way.  To  survive  the  ills  that  beset  us  on 
every  hand  let  us  lift  up  our  eyes  and  lend  listening  ears  to  Him 
who  said,  "Man  shall  not  live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word  that 
proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of  God." 


Selection  by  the  Choir — "Guide  Us,  O  Thou  Great  Jehovah" — 
Hughes. 

The  Choir  then  sang:  "Turn  Thee  to  the  Lord  Thy  God,"  an 
excerpt  from  Gallia  by  Charles  Gounod. 

CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and  announced  by  Richard  L. 
Evans,  and  originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  was  pre- 
sented from  9:00  to  9:30  a.m.,  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of 
the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  network,  throughout  the  United 
States.  This  broadcast  was  as  follows: 

(Organ  played  "As  the  Dew,"  and  on  signal  the  Choir  and 
Organ  broke  into  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred  Strain,"  singing  words 
to  end  of  second  line  and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for  announcer's 
background. ) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome  you  within  these  walls 
with  music  and  the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West. 

The  CBS  and  its  affiliated  stations  bring  you  at  this  hour  an- 
other presentation  from  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Frank  Asper, 
Tabernacle  Organist,  and  the  spoken  word  by  Richard  Evans. 

We  first  hear  the  choir  recall  a  cherished  12th  century  melody 
as  arranged  by  F.  Melius  Christiansen:  "Beautiful  Savior!  Lord  of 
the  nations!  Son  of  God  and  Son  of  Man!  Glory  and  honor,  Praise, 
adoration,  Now  and  forevermore  be  Thine." 

(Choir  sang:  "Beautiful  Savior"- — arranged  by  Christiansen) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organist,  first  presents 
from  Temple  Square  today  the  quietly  contemplative  phrases  of  the 
"Communion  in  G"  by  Batiste — also  sometimes  titled  "The  Pilgrim's 
Song  of  Hope." 

(Organ:  "Communion  in  G" — Batiste) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir  continues  with  the  wor- 
shipful music  of  an  old  French  melody  as  arranged  by  Gustav  Hoist, 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  1 07 


and  with  G.  Moultrie's  translation  of  the  original  Greek:  "Let  all 
mortal  flesh  keep  silence,  and  with  fear  and  trembling  stand;  .  .  . 
Christ  our  Lord  to  earth  descendeth  our  full  homage  to  demand.  .  .  . 
Rank  on  rank  the  host  of  heaven  spreads  its  vanguard  on  the  way 
as  the  light  of  light  descendeth  from  the  realms  of  endless  day,  that 
the  pow'rs  of  hell  may  vanish  as  the  darkness  clears  away." 

(Choir:  "Let  All  Mortal  Flesh  Keep  Silence"— arr.  Hoist.) 
Announcer: 

THE  SPOKEN  WORD 

It  is  a  dramatic  and  terrifying  fact  that  a  man  can  do  a  thing 
right  a  thousand  times,  and  then  when  he  does  it  wrong  just  once, 
tragedy  comes.  Except  for  some  very  narrow  escapes,  perhaps  any 
of  us  or  even  all  of  us  could  be  numbered  with  those  whom  we  pity 
or  with  those  whom  we  condemn.  And  we  may  never  know  how  nar- 
rowly we  may  have  missed  the  fate  of  someone  who  has  had  a  terrible 
tragedy.  This  thought  is  unforgetably  expressed  in  the  comment 
commonly  credited  to  John  Bradford,  Chaplain  to  Edward  VI  of 
sixteenth  century  England.  Seeing  a  condemned  man  marched  off 
to  his  death,  and  knowing  of  the  narrow  margins  by  which  men  are 
often  made  and  unmade,  he  exclaimed:  "There,  but  for  the  grace  of 
God  goes  John  Bradford."  Significantly  he  himself  later  met  similar 
unfortunate  fate.  There  is  often  only  a  very  fine  line  between 
winning  and  losing.  In  a  race  the  difference  may  be  only  the  shaving 
of  a  second.  In  business,  the  difference  may  be  only  one  wrong  de- 
cision among  a  thousand  right  ones.  In  a  contest,  the  difference  may 
be  only  one  judge.  In  an  accident,  the  difference  may  be  only  one 
small  mechanical  mishap  or  one  small  error  of  judgment.  In  so  many 
things  we  do  in  life,  there  is  an  exceedingly  thin  line  between  safety 
and  sorrow.  We  ourselves  may  not  see  it  at  the  moment.  But  often 
others  see  it,  and  are  frightened  for  us.  And  afterwards  we  are 
frightened  for  ourselves.  This  is  one  reason  why  parents  are  so 
often  afraid  for  children.  Parents  have  the  experience  and  perspective 
to  see  how  fine  the  line  can  be  between  safety  and  sorrow,  between 
success  and  failure.  The  differences  in  cause  may  sometimes  seem 
inconsequential,  but  the  differences  in  result  may  be  eternally  great. 
And  we  should  have  compassion  for  the  man  who  has  met  misfortune, 
for  the  man  who  has  made  a  mistake,  for  the  man  who  narrowly 
missed  being  what  he  might  have  been — and  we  should  never  forget 
that  "there  but  for  the  grace  of  God"  am  I.  And  the  thought  should 
help  to  keep  us  humble  and  help  to  keep  us  holding  hard  and  fast  to 
the  right  side  of  every  decision,  and  to  th*e  right  side  of  every  road. 

Announcer:  With  words  from  the  scriptures  and  music  from 
the  "Toccata  in  F"  as  arranged  by  Guy  Chamber  Filkins  from 
"Widor's  5th  Symphony,"  we  have  heard  an  Alleluia — "Alleluia 
Sing  unto  the  Lord — Sing  praise  unto  our  God — His  Name  is  high 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Day 

above  all  things  in  earth  and  Heav'n,  .  .  .  Praise  to  the  Lord  my  soul, 
Sing  Alleluia." 

(Choir:  "Alleluia"- — Toccata  in  F — Widor's  5th  Symphony) 

(Organ:  "Softly  Beams  the  Sacred  Dawning" — George  Care- 
less) 

Announcer:  With  Frank  Asper  at  the  organ  we  have  heard  a 
hymn  tune  by  George  Careless:  "Softly  Beams  the  sacred  Dawning 
of  the  great  Millennial  morn,  and  to  Saints  gives  welcome  warning 
that  the  day  is  hasting  on." 

The  Choir  closes  this  day  from  Temple  Square  with  an  excerpt 
from  the  "Holy  City"  by  A.  R.  Gaul:  "Great  and  Marvellous  are 
thy  works,  Lord  God;  just  and  true  are  Thy  ways." 

(Choir:  "Great  and  Marvellous" — Gaul) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you  within  the  shadows  of  the 
everlasting  hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — and  always. 

This  concludes  the  eleven  hundred  and  fifty-fifth  presentation, 
continuing  the  23rd  year  of  this  traditional  broadcast  from  the  Mor- 
mon Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by  CBS  Radio, 
and  originating  with  Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City.  .  .  ." 

SUNDAY  MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  10:00  a.m. 

The  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity  long  before  the 
commencement  of  the  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast,  as  were  also  the 
Assembly  Hall,  to  the  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  and  Barratt  Hall  (60 
North  Main  Street ) .  In  addition,  great  numbers  of  people  assembled 
upon  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  listened,  by  means  of 
amplifying  equipment,  to  the  services  as  they  went  forward  in  the 
Tabernacle  and  were  broadcast. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  presided  and  conducted  the 
services,  called  the  meeting  to  order  promptly  at  10:00  o'clock. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  fifth  session  of  this  general  conference  was  not  broadcast. 
It  was  a  general  Priesthood  meeting  held  last  evening  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, with  overflow  meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  the  Barratt 
Hall.  An  estimated  number  of  over  400  men  were  on  the  grounds 
who  could  not  gain  entrance  to  any  of  the  buildings. 

The  speakers  were  Presiding  Bishop  LeGrand  Richards  and 
members  of  the  First  Presidency.  The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  furnished  the  music.  By  count  as  nearly  as  could  be 
obtained,  there  were  12,908  men  assembled  last  evening,  approx- 
imately 13,000  men  of  the  Priesthood. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  109 


This  is  the  sixth  session,  therefore,  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty- 
second  Semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City.  These  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  over  a  loud-speaking  system,  and 
by  television.  The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast 
over  Station  KSL,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL  over  the  sta- 
tions named  in  the  first  session  of  the  conference. 

This  session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  sta- 
tion, channel  5. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  morning's  session  of  the  conference 
will  be  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conduct- 
ing, and  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  the  services  by  the  congregation  and  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  singing:  "For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills,"  conducted  by 
Richard  P.  Condie,  assistant  Tabernacle  Choir  director. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elijah  Allen,  formerly 
president  of  the  California  Mission. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "For  the  Strength 
of  the  Hills." 

Elder  Elijah  Allen  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

Following  the  prayer,  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang:  "Behold  A 
Host." 

PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

"Up,  awake,  ye  defenders  of  Zion! 
The  foe's  at  the  door  of  your  homes; 
Let  each  heart  be  the  heart  of  a  lion. 
Unyielding  and  proud  as  he  roams." 

These  are  the  opening  lines  of  a  militant  hymn  by  the  late 
Charles  W.  Penrose,  written  on  the  occasion  of  a  great  threatening 
danger  to  the  communities  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  during  their 
early  establishment  in  the  valleys  of  these  mountains.  The  foe  was 
an  army,  with  a  mission  inimical  to  the  liberties,  the  interests,  and 
the  aspirations  of  the  people.  This  clarion  call,  which  but  echoed  the 
proclamations  of  the  leaders,  electrified  the  people.  "To  a  man" 
they  responded  to  their  various  assignments.  There  is  no  record 
of  any  dissension.  The  defenders  saved  Zion. 

Challenging  Call 

I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  Restored  Church  of 
our  Lord,  that  it  is  within  the  proprieties  and  the  urgent  needs  of 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Dai) 

the  hour  to  issue  another  such  challenging  call  today.  I  would  not 
welcome  the  charge  of  "alarmist,"  but  I  would  endure  it  if  I 
thought  such  a  militant  call  would  arouse  our  people  to  a  state  of 
alarm  over  the  ominous  conditions  which  threaten  us. 

"The  foe  at  the  door  of  our  homes"  is  not  an  army  of  march- 
ing men  with  military  equipment,  as  it  was  nearly  a  hundred  years 
ago.  And  the  homes  to  be  defended  are  not  the  houses  in  which 
we  dwell. 

The  foe  today  is  far  less  tangible  and  discernible.  He  is  widely 
diffused  and  insidious.  His  methods  are  multiple,  and  it  is  much 
more  difficult  to  prepare  for  defense,  for  the  foe  of  the  present-day 
attacks  both  within  and  without  the  Church. 

If  in  the  time  allotted  to  me  in  this  great  conference,  I  can 
add  anything,  however  small,  to  the  admonitions  of  my  brethren, 
which  may  serve  to  alert  our  people  to  dangers  confronting  them, 
I  shall  be  extremely  grateful  to  my  Father  in  heaven. 

ZlON  AND  THE  WORLD 

I  repeat,  the  foe  of  today  assumes  many  forms.  I  think,  how- 
ever, they  may  be  generally  classified  under  the  caption,  "Aping 
the  Ways  of  the  World."  I  know  of  few  more  salutary  things 
for  a  Latter-day  Saint  than  constantly  to  bear  in  mind  the  distinc- 
tion between  Zion  and  the  world.  Both  terms  are  somewhat  con- 
fusing because  they  are  used  with  varying  meanings  and  applica- 
tions. Both  have  geographical  application,  and  both  have  theologi- 
cal and  moral  import. 

For  my  purpose  here  today,  I  shall  look  upon  Zion  as  being 
a  condition  and  not  a  place,  and  the  world  likewise.  "...  verily, 
thus  saith  the  Lord,  let  Zion  rejoice,  for  this  is  Zion, — the  pure  in 
heart."  (D.  C.  97:21.) 

There  is  no  fence  around  Zion  or  the  world,  but  to  one  of 
discernment,  they  are  separated  more  completely  than  if  each  were 
surrounded  with  high  unscalable  walls.  Their  underlying  concepts, 
philosophies,  and  purposes  are  at  complete  variance  one  with  the 
other.  The  philosophy  of  the  world  is  self-sufficient,  egotistical, 
materialistic,  and  skeptical.  The  philosophy  of  Zion  is  humility,  not 
servility,  but  a  willing  recognition  of  the  sovereignty  of  God  and 
dependence  on  his  providence. 

A  Principle  of  Strength 

The  critics  of  Zion  mistake  humility  for  weakness.  In  their 
ignorance  or  shortsightedness  they  have  failed  to  observe  that  gen- 
erally speaking,  the  humble  of  the  earth  have  been  its  greatest  bene- 
factors, in  science,  in  statesmanship,  and  in  great  movements  for 
the  elevation  of  humanity,  foremost  among  all  being  the  Author 
of  humility,  our  Lord  and  Savior.  It  is  sometimes  difficult  to  com- 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  1 1 1 


prehend  how  humility  can  be  a  principle  of  strength  and  power, 
and  why  the  great  victories  of  life  have  gone  to  the  humble. 

I  think  the  explanation  is  this:  The  self-sufficient  are  not  in  a 
position  to  call  to  their  aid  the  one  greatest  and  most  effective  force 
in  the  world— the  Spirit  of  God.  The  humble  depend  upon  this 
power;  it  does  not  fail  them.  The  battles  for  righteousness  and 
liberty  which  is  a  divine  endowment  can  always  be  won  if  those 
who  wage  the  war  are  worthy  of  victory.  This  is  the  explanation 
and  the  lesson  which,  more  than  any  other,  the  world  needs  today. 

I  feel  hesitant  to  say  it,  but  I  am  constrained  to  make  the  as- 
sertion, even  though  it  may  seem  highly  presumptuous  to  many  who 
hear  it,  that  the  Restored  Church  of  our  Lord,  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  is  in  better  position,  is  more  specifically 
charged  with  the  responsibility,  and  has  greater  revealed  knowl- 
edge than  any  other  institution  to  teach  to  the  world  this  one  vital 
lesson  it  so  sorely  needs. 

In  making  this  statement  I  intend  no  disparagement  of  the 
righteous  and  pure  in  heart  of  the  world.  I  have  not  time  to  try  to 
define  their  relationship  to  the  Zion  of  the  kingdom.  They  will 
receive  the  Lord's  compensation  for  their  own  goodness,  and  last- 
ing gratitude  for  their  contribution  to  the  welfare  of  mankind. 

We  can  effectively  bring  this  lesson  to  the  world  only  as  we 
build  up  Zion  and  protect  her  from  her  foes.  I  propose  to  enumerate, 
with  your  indulgence,  and  I  hope  not  offensively,  some  of  the 
attacks  which  the  subtle  and  insidious  foe,  coming  from  the  world 
and  its  philosophy  and  practices,  is  making  against  Zion. 

Attacks  Upon  the  Home 

I  shall  begin  with  the  home,  the  most  fundamental  institution 
in  our  society.  The  foe  is  attacking  our  divinely-given  concept 
that  marriage  is  an  eternal  compact  between  a  priest  and  a  priestess 
of  the  Most  High,  charged  with  the  sacred  mission  of  bringing 
children  into  the  world,  and  then  guiding  them  safely  back  into  the 
presence  of  God,  whence  their  spirits  came.  President  Clark  gave 
us  a  most  illuminating  and  impressive  discourse  on  that  subject 
yesterday.  The  fulfilment  of  this  mission  involves  sacrifice.  The 
ever-growing  practice  of  the  world  would  eliminate  that  sacrifice. 

It  would  emancipate  women  (I  think  that  is  what  they  call  it). 
It  wouldn't  have  them  stay  home  as  much  as  they  have  in  the  past. 
It  would  have  them  better  educated  in  general  culture  and  in  civic 
responsibilities,  which  sounds  very  good  and  seems  highly  desirable, 
except  for  one  serious  flaw  in  the  program. 

This  worldly  practice  in  many  instances  takes  a  woman  out  of 
her  home  so  much  of  the  time,  and  absorbs  her  attention  to  such  an 
extent,  that  she  cannot  and  does  not  give  to  her  family  the  loving, 
patient,  intelligent  care  which  they  so  much  deserve  and  need. 
There  are  mothers  whose  club  work  has  ostensibly  been  devoted 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  7  Third  Dag 

to  social  improvement,  whose  very  offspring  have  been  the  prob- 
lems of  the  society  they  seek  to  serve. 

There  are  other  more  frivolous  distractions  drawing  mothers 
away  from  their  homes.  These  are  justified  by  the  allegation  that 
mothers  need  more  relaxation  and  more  freedom  from  the  respon- 
sibilities of  home.  We  grant  that  such  allegations  must  be  true  with 
women  who  have  never  discovered  the  art  of  happy,  contented  liv- 
ing in  their  homes  and  with  their  families.  In  Zion  we  say  to 
mothers,  it's  true,  you  need  some  diversion.  Even  though  you  love 
your  home  life,  a  respite  from  your  work  and  cares  is  desirable. 

The  Church  presents  many  opportunities  for  your  service  in 
social,  educational,  charitable,  missionary,  and  recreational  fields. 
You  will  find  more  lasting  happiness  and  satisfaction  in  a  Relief 
Society  meeting  than  in  a  bridge  club;  and  generally  speaking,  your 
social  diversions  had  better  be  had  in  company  with  your  husband. 
The  world  is  making  butterflies  out  of  women  and  a  prison  out  of 
home. 

Curtailment  of  Families 

Perhaps  the  most  serious  aspect  of  this  attack  of  the  foe  being 
made  on  our  homes  is  in  the  arbitrary  curtailment  of  the  size  of 
families.  The  proponents  of  this  worldly  doctrine  grow  bolder  and 
bolder  every  year.  They  claim  support  from  mathematical  prog- 
nostications as  to  the  increasing  demands  of  populations,  and  the 
limited  supply  of  the  earth's  sustenance.  They  claim  improvement 
of  the  race  by  its  limitation.  They  have  been  making  these  claims 
for  many  years,  and  they  have  won  many  adherents  to  their  cause, 
especially  among  the  so-called  intelligentsia  of  the  world. 

For  the  most  part  the  world  has  been  under  the  leadership  of 
this  birth-restricting  intelligentsia  for  many  years.  And  where  are 
we?  We  have  more  physical  comfort,  more  education  perhaps.  Do 
we  have  better  government?  Are  we  making  more  progress  in 
developing  the  Christian  virtues  among  men?  Do  we  have  more 
brotherhood,  peace,  and  unselfishness? 

I  doubt  if  there  exists  in  all  the  world  any  place  or  institution 
comparable  to  a  big  family  for  the  inculcation  of  the  principle  of 
unselfishness  and  mutual  consideration,  the  high  qualities  of  char- 
acter so  indispensable  in  the  solution  of  the  world's  problems.  I 
know  there  are  bad  big  families  and  bad  small  families;  but  take 
it  by  and  large,  I  would  assume  that  there  is  a  thousand  percent 
better  chance  of  a  great  leader  in  a  good  cause  coming  from  a  fam- 
ily of  ten  than  from  a  family  of  one. 

Now,  if  I  am  not  careful,  I  will  be  debating  this  issue.  I  don't 
want  to  do  this,  first,  because  I  am  sure  I  am  not  fortified  with  all 
the  arguments,  and  I  might  get  bested,  depending  on  who  the  judges 
are;  and  second,  because  we  of  Zion  do  not  have  to  debate  this 
issue.  We  know  of  the  doctrine  that  emanates  from  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  113 


We  know  that  he  has  commanded  the  replenishment  of  the 
earth  from  the  homes  of  his  people,  as  President  Clark  said  yester- 
day. The  Lord  pity  those  who  subject  themselves  to  his  rebuke  for 
denying  entrance  to  the  spirit  children  whom  he  would  send  into 
mortality,  and  the  Lord  pity  those  sophisticated  couples  who  would 
pervert  the  sacred  institution  of  marriage  into  an  arrangement  for 
social  convenience  and  selfish  personal  gratification. 

Sympathy  for  Parents 

Now,  fathers  and  mothers  of  the  Church,  some  will  conclude 
after  hearing  these  comments  that  I  am  without  sympathy  for  the 
sacrifice  mothers  make,  and  for  the  hardships  put  upon  fathers  in 
rearing  a  family  in  these  oppressive  economic  times.  Those  who 
so  conclude  are  partly  right  and  partly  wrong.  I  don't  have  too 
much  sympathy  for  a  father,  a  Latter-day  Saint  father,  who  decides 
that  a  baby  cannot  come  into  the  home  until  a  ten  or  fifteen  thousand 
dollar  house  has  been  built  and  furnished,  and  the  money  is  in  the 
bank  to  pay  expenses,  and  who  will  let  his  wife  go  to  work  to  bring 
about  this  so-called  economic  security.  I  don't  have  too  much  sym- 
pathy for  Latter-day  Saint  couples  who  do  not  have  faith  that  if 
they  do  God's  will,  he  will  bless  them. 

I  do  have  sympathy,  however,  for  all  parents  in  these  days 
in  the  Herculean  effort  required  to  keep  children  in  the  paths  of 
virtue  and  truth.  I  have  sympathy  for  the  endurance,  the  sleepless 
nights  of  excruciating  anxiety  of  parents  who  don't  know  where 
their  children  are  and  what  they  are  doing;  and  my  heart  bleeds 
for  the  innocent  ones  who  are  the  victims  of  disgrace  brought  upon 
their  families  by  the  sins  of  the  wayward. 

I  am  persuaded,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is  no 
remedial  measure  which  offers  more  promise  in  the  alleviation  of 
domestic  distress  as  affecting  husband  and  wife,  and  parents  and 
children  than  the  firm  establishment  of  the  sacred  and  religious 
character  of  family  life,  marriage  in  the  Church  and  in  the  temple; 
and,  as  a  necessary  adjunct  thereto,  the  reestablishment  of  the  God- 
given  principle  of  sacrifice  in  discharging  parental  and  filial  obli- 
gations. 

We  want  to  relieve  mother  of  drudgery.  If  I  could,  I  would 
put  a  dishwasher  in  every  home,  but  good  mothers  and  good  fathers, 
with  the  vision  of  home  vouchsafed  to  them  in  the  restored  gospel, 
don't  want  to  be  relieved  of  the  obligation  to  expend  their  strength 
and  energies,  and  to  give  their  lives  for  God's  children  entrusted 
to  their  care. 

Attack  on  Moral  Purity 

There  is  another  threat  to  Zion  perhaps  transcending  all 
others  in  serious  import.  It  is  the  attack  of  the  foe  on  our  traditional 
concept  and  standard  of  personal  moral  purity.  This  attack  is  so 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Day 

evil  and  so  repugnant  to  our  sense  of  decency  and  virtue  that  I 
will  not  discuss  it  in  this  reverential  presence. 

I  must  content  myself  with  the  prayer  that  God,  who  sees  our 
need,  will  come  to  our  rescue,  and  that  he  will  arouse  the  mighty 
power  of  Zion  against  this  devastating  enemy,  that  every  man, 
woman,  and  child  among  us  may  be  fortified  with  the  armor  of 
righteousness  and  virtue,  that  the  offenders  may  be  rebuked,  and 
repent  in  sackcloth  and  ashes;  and  that  the  watchmen  on  the 
towers,  the  officers  and  the  priesthood  of  the  Church,  may  be 
alerted  to  the  enemy,  discharge  their  solemn  duties,  and  protect 
us. 

I  have  taken  so  much  time  in  the  endeavor  to  point  out  what 
we  have  to  fear  in  the  encroachment  of  worldly  concepts  and  prac- 
tices on  home  life  and  virtue  that  there  is  little  time  remaining  for 
me  to  mention  other  aspects  of  great  dangers  confronting  us.  I 
trust,  however,  that  the  serious  nature  of  these  items  will  war- 
rant a  brief  consideration  of  them. 

Criticism  of  Unity 

The  foe  is  attacking  our  unity.  We  in  Zion  have  enjoyed  a 
most  uncommon  reputation  for  unity  of  purpose  and  achievement. 
This  has  come  about  because  it  has  ever  been  our  disposition  to 
follow  and  yield  obedience  to  our  leaders.  Our  critics,  who  have 
not  understood  our  concepts,  who  have  observed  our  unanimous 
voting  in  sustaining  officers,  and  other  evidences  of  our  concerted 
action,  have  called  it  blind  obedience,  induced  by  some  sort  of 
fear  or  other  compulsion. 

I  haven't  time  to  analyze  and  point  out  the  false  premise  of 
this  criticism,  but  I  flatly  deny  its  validity.  The  obedience  we  render 
is  voluntary  and  not  blind,  but  intelligent;  and  the  unity  we  mani- 
fest arises  out  of  a  common  understanding  of  our  purposes  and  a 
common  devotion  to  their  achievement.  We  seek  for  and  enjoy  the 
influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which,  in  the  larger  aspects  of  life, 
motivates  us  all  alike.  Our  unanimity  is  in  response  to  that  Spirit. 

That  condition  is  not  generally  prevalent  in  the  world.  Division, 
divided  views,  and  debate  thereon  are  commended.  Perhaps  when 
people  don't  know  where  they  are  going  and  have  no  defined 
objectives,  criticism  and  debate  are  commendable.  Men  and  women 
within  and  without  the  Church  fail  to  observe  this  distinction.  They 
want  to  debate  our  objectives.  They  have  forgotten  that  they  are 
divinely  set  for  us  and  beyond  debate.  They  seem  to  think  our 
unity  belittles  us.  This  is  a  worldly  doctrine.  It  has  no  place  in 
Zion. 

A  threat  to  our  unity  derives  from  unseemly  personal  antagon- 
isms developed  in  partisan  political  controversy.  The  Church,  while 
reserving  the  right  to  advocate  principles  of  good  government 
underlying  equity,  justice,  and  liberty,  the  political  integrity  of 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  1 1 5 


officials,  and  the  active  participation  of  its  members,  and  the  ful- 
filment of  their  obligations  in  civic  affairs,  exercises  no  constraint 
on  the  freedom  of  individuals  to  make  their  own  choices  and  affilia- 
tions. I  am  authorized  by  President  McKay  to  say  that  any  man 
who  makes  representation  to  the  contrary  does  so  without  authority 
and  justification  in  fact. 

Fairness  in  Political  Views 

It  is  reasonable  to  assume  that  men  may  entertain  honest  dif- 
ferences of  opinions  with  reference  to  governmental  policy.  In 
America,  and  in  many  other  countries,  an  orderly  system  has  been 
devised  for  the  determination  of  issues  arising  out  of  such  differences. 
With  such  methods  available,  why  should  any  men,  particularly 
those  in  the  brotherhood  of  Zion,  permit  themselves  to  entertain 
personal  animosities  against  their  opponents.  There  is  surely  noth- 
ing Christian  in  impugning  motives  merely  because  of  a  difference 
of  opinion. 

I  hope  with  all  my  heart  that  men  of  the  priesthood,  of  the 
same  quorum  perhaps,  and  women  of  the  sisterhood  of  the  Church 
will  not  permit  themselves  to  be  estranged  in  any  degree  by  these 
considerations,  and  that  they  will  always  subordinate  such  differ- 
ences and  their  own  personal  ambitions  to  the  achievement  of  the 
lofty  and  exalted  goal  to  which  they  have  pledged  their  eternal 
allegiance — the  building  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 

I  have  been  going  about  this  Church  for  nearly  thirty-five 
years,  filling  assignments  to  instal  officers  in  stakes  and  wards 
and  missions,  and  I  have  never  yet  asked  a  single  person  about  his 
politics,  and  in  very  few  instances  have  I  ever  had  any  knowledge 
on  the  subject.  I  think  my  own  experience  has  been  comparable 
to  that  of  my  brethren.  We  have  been  fair  with  you,  my  fellow 
members  of  the  Church.  Now  we  ask  you  to  be  fair  with  each 
other. 

Threat  of  Indifference 

Perhaps  the  greatest  threat  to  both  our  unity  and  our  progress 
in  Zion  is  that  of  indifference  and  neglect.  These  deficiencies  are 
not  new.  They  have  existed  in  some  degree  throughout  our  history. 
I  am  forced  to  believe  that  they  have  increased  as  a  deterrent  force 
in  recent  years.  I  believe  also  that  this  regrettable  indifference  to 
duty  and  opportunity  is  in  large  measure  ascribable  to  "aping  the 
ways  of  the  world." 

A  man  of  the  priesthood,  we  will  say,  is  associated  in  business, 
in  club  life,  and  in  other  capacities,  with  a  man  of  the  world.  This 
man  may  be  his  neighbor.  He  sees  his  neighbor  on  a  Sunday  morn- 
ing out  on  the  porch  smoking  his  pipe  and  reading  the  newspaper, 
or  he  sees  him  go  off  to  a  golf  game,  or  on  a  fishing  trip.  It  all 
looks  relaxing  and  pleasant  to  him,  and  then  he  forgets  who  he  is 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Day 

and  where  he  is.  He  forgets  that  he  has  been  commissioned  as  a 
servant  of  God,  and  he  forgets  that  he  is  in  Zion;  and  forgetting, 
he  steps  out  of  Zion  into  the  world,  not  all  in  one  step,  sometimes 
so  gradually  that  the  change  is  almost  imperceptible  to  him,  and 
he  is  loath  to  acknowledge  his  new  status.  He  persuades  himself 
that  this  comfortable,  easy  life  is  very  enjoyable. 

Then  he  goes  farther — farther  than  he  intended.  He  succumbs 
to  many  practices  he  once  abhorred.  He  stops  paying  tithing,  and 
the  twinges  of  conscience  he  once  had  about  forsaking  duty  grad- 
ually subside.  He  is  comfortably  out  of  Zion.  After  awhile  he  comes 
to  the  realization  that  his  growing  sons  are  disposed  to  ape  his 
own  practices,  as  he  does  those  of  the  world. 

He  also  begins  to  realize  that  his  dear,  devoted  wife  is  suffer- 
ing great  disappointment.  She  sets  great  store  by  the  promises 
made  at  their  marriage  and  realizes  that  the  eternal  blessings  are 
obtainable  only  through  the  faithfulness  of  herself  and  her  man. 
She  sees  him  losing  his  priesthood  through  neglect.  It  saddens  her, 
and  if  his  conscience  is  not  too  deadened,  he  perceives  her  sorrow. 
He  has  the  power  to  change,  to  gladden  the  hearts  of  his  wife  and 
children,  but  he  lacks  courage  and  resolution. 

The  worldly  habits  have  fastened  themselves  with  a  hundred 
tentacles  into  his  very  soul.  He  cannot  throw  them  off.  He  despairs; 
and  then  one  day  something  touches  him — a  death,  a  tragedy,  a 
friend,  his  bishop  perhaps,  or  quorum  president,  or  a  missionary. 
Finally  the  light  that  he  had  lost  is  re-kindled  in  him.  The  Spirit 
again  comes  to  dwell  within  him.  In  penitence  and  humility  he 
cries  out,  "O  God,  forgive  me  for  my  neglect."  Thank  the  Lord 
there  is  forgiveness  and  mercy  for  those  who  repent,  and  surpassing 
joy  in  the  reclamation  of  those  who  have  strayed.  Let  no  man 
among  us  be  ashamed  of  his  priesthood.  Nothing  greater  will  ever 
come  into  his  life. 

Disparagement  of  Orthodoxy 

One  more  item  and  I  shall  conclude.  There  is  a  worldly  threat 
to  our  theological  teaching  and  to  the  faith  of  youth.  Sporadically 
it  has  always  been  so,  but  in  recent  years  it  is  more  pronounced. 
This  is  not  a  frontal  attack  by  the  foe.  We  have  never  had  too 
much  difficulty  in  meeting  open  charges  or  criticisms.  The  foe  is 
striking  from  ambush,  with  snipers  and  fifth  columnists,  with  traps 
for  the  unwary. 

A  part  of  the  propaganda  is  that  there  is  no  warrant  for  official 
interpretation  of  the  doctrines  and  standards  of  the  Church,  that 
everyone  may  read  and  interpret  for  himself,  and  adopt  only  so 
much  of  the  doctrine  as  he  chooses,  and  that  he  may  classify  the 
revelations  as  essential  or  non-essential.  These  propagandists  are 
either  ignorant  of  or  ignore  the  Lord's  declaration  that  "no  prophecy 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  1 1 7 


of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private  interpretation."  (II  Peter  1:20.) 
They  disparage  orthodoxy  as  such  and  pride  themselves  on  liberal 
thinking.  Many  of  them  maintain  their  loyalty  to  the  Church, 
and  some  may  honestly  believe  they  are  doing  the  Church  a  favor 
and  a  service  in  advocating  their  so-called  broad-minded  concepts. 

Unfortunately,  some  people  within  the  Church  subscribing  to 
these  views  do  not  realize  that  they  are  falling  into  a  trap  them- 
selves. They'are  giving  aid  and  comfort  to  the  foe;  they  are  under- 
mining their  own  testimonies  and  those  of  others.  I  warn  the 
Church  against  them,  and  I  warn  them  against  themselves;  and  I 
plead  with  them  to  desist,  to  abandon  their  agnostic  discussions, 
and  to  join  with  the  faithful  in  promoting  the  cause  which  in  their 
hearts  they  once  loved,  and  I  think  they  still  love. 

Attacks  on  Joseph  Smith 

Not  a  few  of  these  snipers  delight  to  take  a  shot  at  Joseph 
Smith.  In  some  surprising  way  it  has  become  somewhat  popular, 
stimulated,  I  presume,  by  books  which  have  been  written  for  stu- 
dents and  scholars,  to  undertake  exhaustive  research  into  the  life 
of  this  great  man.  In  some  instances,  perhaps,  the  purpose  of  the 
research  projects  may  be  laudable,  to  exploit  the  great  and  noble 
things  in  the  life  and  works  of  the  Prophet,  but  in  all  too  many 
instances  I  fear  the  purpose  of  the  research  is  merely  exploratory, 
with  the  hope  of  discovering  something  that  would  make  for  sen- 
sational reading  and  perhaps  a  profit  for  the  writer.  I  have  never 
been  able  to  discover  any  very  substantial  reason  for  these  re- 
searches other  than  that  I  have  just  mentioned. 

Here  is  a  life  recently  lived.  Many  of  us  here  in  this  assembly 
today  have  known  and  talked  with  persons  who  knew  the  Prophet, 
and  yet  you  would  think  from  the  way  the  researchers  go  after 
him  that  he  was  a  person  of  great  antiquity,  and  that  something  in 
the  nature  of  excavation  for  prehistoric  materials  had  to  be  under- 
taken to  discover  the  facts  of  his  life.  I  doubt  if  there  is  a  person 
who  has  lived  in  the  last  two  centuries  whose  life  is  more  fully 
documented  than  that  of  this  man,  unless  perchance  it  be  among 
royalty  or  those  in  high  public  office. 

Almost  every  important  event  in  his  life  has  been  recorded 
by  himself,  by  his  mother,  and  by  those  who  immediately  knew 
him.  His  life  is  not  a  mystery;  it  is  an  open  book,  at  least  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  who  have  access  to  the-  knowledge  which  he 
brought  to  the  world. 

I  rebuke  the  members  of  the  Church  who  cast  aspersion  upon 
the  honored  name  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  who  in  any 
manner  disparage  his  noble  work.  By  so  doing  they  destroy  faith, 
their  own  and  that  of  others,  and  the  Lord  will  hold  them  account- 
able. 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7 

Testimony  of  Divine  Mission 

I  repeat  what  I  have  said  in  this  pulpit  before:  My  grandfather 
was  the  close  friend  and  companion  of  this  man.  He  knew  him  as 
intimately  as  one  man  may  know  another.  He  had  abundant  oppor- 
tunity to  detect  any  flaws  in  his  character  and  discover  any  deceit 
in  his  work.  He  found  none,  and  he  has  left  his  testimony  to  his 
family  and  to  all  the  world  that  this  man  was  true,,  that  he  was 
divinely  commissioned  for  the  work  he  had  to  do,  and  that  he  gave 
his  life  to  the  fulfilment  of  his  mission.  I  have  complete  assurance 
that  Willard  Richards  did  not  lie  about  his  friend,  and  on  my  own 
account,  independent  of  my  grandfather's  testimony,  borne  out  of 
the  spirit  within  me,  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
the  Living  God,  and  the  work  he  was  instrumental  in  setting  up 
in  the  earth  is  the  veritable  kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

Having  that  knowledge  and  a  deep  reverence  for  his  illustrious 
name,  I  deplore  and  resent  the  miserable  attempts  made  to  discredit 
him;  and  I  predict  that  they  will  all  come  to  nought,  that  he  will 
survive  every  attack,  that  he  will  yet  win  the  esteem  and  respect  of 
all  good  men,  and  that  the  Father  has  already  glorified  him. 

Preservation  of  Zion 

If  I  have  been  able  in  any  degree  to  clarify  our  understanding 
about  Zion  and  her  relationship  to  the  world,  if  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  has  entered  into  your  hearts,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
give  you  a  greater  love  for  Zion  and  awake  within  you  a  keener 
apprehension  of  the  dangers  which  the  foe  has  brought  to  our 
very  doors,  and  if  resolution  shall  now  grip  your  hearts  to  arise 
and  defend  Zion,  I  will  be  profoundly  grateful.  And  some  day  the 
righteous  of  the  world  will  be  grateful,  for  "Ye  are  the  salt  of  the 
earth:  but  if  the  salt  have  lost  his  savour,  wherewith  shall  it  be 
salted?"  (Matt.  5:13.) 

O  God,  help  us,  thy  favored  children,  to  preserve  Zion,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

With  the  help  of  the  Lord,  which  I  seek,  and  your  faith  and 
prayers,  I  shall  try  not  to  trespass  too  far  upon  the  excellent  remarks 
that  we  have  heard  by  others  in  this  conference.  But  I  have  been 
impressed  with  the  thought  of  saying  something  in  addition  to 
what  has  been  said  in  relation  to  the  sacred  and  holy  covenant 
of  marriage. 

Misunderstanding  of  Scriptures 

There  is  plenty  that  can  be  said,  I  think,  without  my  crossing 
the  lines  and  necessarily  repeating.  The  Lord  never  intended,  never 


Third  Day 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  1 1 9 


designated  nor  designed  that  marriage  should  come  to  an  end  with 
death.  There  isn't  anything  in  the  scriptures  when  properly  under- 
stood that  indicates  anything  of  that  kind.  It  is  due  to  a  misunder- 
standing through  a  lack  of  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
that  has  led  the  world  almost  universally  to  believe  that  marriage 
is  for  time  only,  that  when  death  comes,  there  comes  a  separation 
of  husbands  and  wives,  and  children  are  left  without  any  claim  in 
the  eternities  upon  their  parents. 

The  one  passage  of  scripture  above  all  others  that  is  relied  on 
in  the  world  to  attempt  to  prove  that  marriage  comes  to  an  end  and 
that  there  is  no  marriage  hereafter  is  taken  from  the  remarks  of  our 
Savior  to  the  Sadducees  who  came  tempting  him.  You  recall  that 
these  Sadducees  did  not  believe  in  the  resurrection.  They  came  with 
a  story,  which  no  doubt  is  fictitious,  to  the  effect  that  a  woman  had 
been  married  consecutively  seven  times,  and  trying  to  catch  him 
in  a  trap,  they  asked  him  which  of  these  seven  husbands  would  be 
the  husband  of  the  woman  in  eternity.  Our  Lord  gave  them  the 
proper  answer  because  he  was  speaking  to  people  who  did  not 
believe  in  the  hereafter.  So  he  said  in  answer  to  their  questions: 
"The  children  of  this  world  marry  and  are  given  in  marriage."  I 
call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  Lord  said  that  he  and  his 
disciples  did  not  belong  to  this  world;  the  Sadducees  did.  To  con- 
tinue: "But  they  which  shall  be  counted  worthy  to  attain  that  world 
and  the  resurrection  from  the  dead,  neither  marry  nor  are  given  in 
marriage."  (See  Matt.  22:23-30.)  This  is  absolutely  true. 

And  the  Lord  has  revealed  this  same  doctrine  to  the  Church 
in  the  day  in  which  we  live.  He  says  unto  those  who  are  married 
for  time  only,  and  those  who  do  not  believe  in  marriage  for  eternity: 

Therefore,  when  they  are  out  of  the  world  they  neither  marry  nor 
are  given  in  marriage;  but  are  appointed  angels  in  heaven;  which  angels 
are  ministering  servants,  to  minister  for  those  who  are  worthy  of  a  far 
more,  and  an  exceeding,  and  an  eternal  weight  of  glory. 

For  these  angels  did  not  abide  my  law;  therefore,  they  cannot  be  en- 
larged, but  remain  separately  and  singly,  without  exaltation,  in  their 
saved  condition,  to  all  eternity;  and  from  henceforth  are  not  gods,  but 
are  angels  of  God  forever  and  ever.  (D.  &  C.  132:16-17.) 

So  the  Lord  says  those  of  that  class,  who  may  be  worthy  to 
enter  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  shall  be  like  the  angels,  and  they 
remain  separately  and  singly  in  eternity. 

Marriage  an  Eternal  Principle 

But  the  Lord  very  definitely  has  declared  that  marriage  is  an 
eternal  principle.  That  is  recorded  in  our  scriptures,  in  the  Bible. 
I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  very  first  marriage  on  the 
face  of  this  earth  was  performed  by  the  Lord,  and  it  was  not  for 
time  only  because  there  was  no  time.  That  was  declared,  and  that 
ceremony  given,  to  a  couple  who  were  not  subject  to  death.  There- 
fore, marriage  was  not  intended  to  come  to  an  end.  And  after  the 


■ 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  7  Third  Day 

Fall,  when  Adam  and  Eve  were  driven  from  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
the  Lord  did  not  say  that  they  should  return  to  the  dust,  and  their 
bodies  should  remain,  but  he  gave  them  the  promise  of  the  resur- 
rection; nor  did  he  say  to  them  that  this  marriage  that  was  performed 
for  eternity,  if  you  please,  would  come  to  an  end. 

When  the  Lord  was  confronted  by  the  Pharisees,  who  believed 
in  the  resurrection,  his  answer  to  them  was  a  very  different  one. 
Likewise  they  came  tempting  him.  They  wanted  to  know  if  it  is 
lawful  for  a  man  to  put  away  his  wife  for  every  cause.  And  the 
answer  was  given  them: 

.  .  .  Have  ye  not  read,  that  he  which  made  them  at  the  beginning 
made  them  male  and  female, 

And  said  for  this  cause  shall  a  man  leave  father  and  mother,  and  shall 
cleave  to  his  wife:  and  they  twain  shall  be  one  flesh?  (Matthew  19:4-5.) 

Where  is  any  idea  of  separation  in  that  remark?  "Wherefore 
they  are  no  more  twain" — that  sounds  like  eternity.  "No  more 
twain,  but  one  flesh.  What  therefore  God  hath  joined  together,  let 
no  man  put  asunder."  (Ibid.,  19:6,.) 

Marriage  by  Divine  Commandment 

In  the  temples  of  the  Lord  men  and  women  are  sealed,  married 
for  time  and  for  all  eternity.  The  Lord  has  commanded  it.  Children 
born  to  them  will  be  their  children  not  only  in  this  life,  but  also  in 
eternity;  and  the  family  relationship,  according  to  the  plan  of  the 
Lord,  is  not  designed  to  come  to  an  end.  But,  of  course,  if  people 
will  not  accept  marriage  by  divine  commandment,  it  cannot  be 
recognized.  What  God  has  joined  together  must  be  something  that 
will  endure,  for  he  does  not  perform  ceremonies  for  time  only.  The 
Lord  did  not  say  to  these  Pharisees,  "There  is  no  marriage  in 
eternity,"  but  he  said,  where  God  joins,  it  endures  forever.  That,  I 
read  into  this  passage  of  scripture,  and  I  think  I  read  it  correctly. 

Covenants  and  Obligations 

Now  I  want  to  plead  to  my  good  brethren  and  sisters,  good 
members  of  the  Church,  to  go  to  the  temple  to  be  married  for  time 
and  all  eternity.  I  want  to  plead  with  those  who  have  been  to  the 
temple  and  have  been  so  married  to  be  faithful  and  true  to  their 
covenants  and  their  obligations,  for  in  the  House  of  the  Lord  they 
have  made  solemn  covenants  and  have  taken  upon  themselves  before 
God,  angels,  and  witnesses,  obligations  that  sometimes  are  broken. 

What  does  marriage  mean  to  members  of  the  Church?  It  means 
that  they  are  receiving  in  that  ordinance  the  greatest,  the  crowning 
blessing,  the  blessing  of  eternal  lives.  Now  that's  the  way  the  Lord 
puts  it,  "eternal  lives,"  which  means  not  only  will  the  husband  and 
the  wife  enter  into  eternal  life,  but  their  children  who  were  born 
under  the  covenant  likewise  will  be  entitled  through  their  faithful- 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


121 


ness  to  eternal  lives.  And  further,  that  the  husband  and  the  wife  after 
the  resurrection  of  the  dead  will  not  come  to  an  end.  By  that  the 
Lord  means  that  they  will  have  a  continuation  of  the  seeds  forever, 
and  the  family  organization  does  not  come  to  an  end. 

Reason  for  Divorce 

We  have  too  many  marriages  in  the  temple  of  the  Lord  where 
the  parties  entering  into  the  covenants  violate  them.  If  we  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  were  living  in  full  accord  with  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  living  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  forth  from  the 
mouth  of  God,  divorce  would  practically  disappear  so  far  as  the 
Church  is  concerned;  that  is,  among  those  who  are  married  in  the 
temple. 

When  divorce  comes  to  those  who  are  married  in  the  temple, 
it  has  come  because  they  have  violated  the  covenants  and  the  obli- 
gations they  have  taken  upon  themselves  to  be  true  to  each  other,  true 
to  God,  true  to  the  Church.  If  they  will  continue  to  live  in  that  faith- 
fulness, if  they  will  have  love  in  their  hearts  for  each  other,  respect 
each  other's  rights  and  not  one  attempt  to  take  an  advantage  unduly 
of  the  other  but  have  the  proper  consideration,  there  will  be  no 
failures.  When  the  separation  comes,  as  I  say,  too  frequently,  it  is 
because  of  violation  of  the  covenants  and  obligations  of  this  sacred 
and  holy  ceremony. 

And  when  a  man  and  a  woman  are  married  in  the  temple  for 
time  and  all  eternity  and  then  seek  through  the  courts  a  separation, 
and  perhaps  come  to  the  President  of  the  Church  to  get  a  cancella- 
tion, what  have  they  done?  Children  likely  have  been  born,  and  as 
we  have  already  heard,  these  children  belong  to  God;  they  are  his 
children  sent  to  that  home  with  all  the  rights  of  protection  from 
father  and  mother,  guidance  from  father  and  mother,  to  be  built  up 
and  strengthened  in  the  faith,  and  to  go  into  the  heavens,  into  the 
celestial  kingdom  with  the  father  and  mother  to  sit  with  them  in 
exaltation  and  glory.  But  frequently  a  man  and  a  woman  cannot  live 
together,  many  times  because  of  some  trivial  thing  that  arises,  and 
they  separate.  What  have  they  done  to  those  children?  They  have 
destroyed  their  God-given  rights,  taken  them  away  from  them,  de- 
stroyed a  family.  And  how  are  they  going  to  go  into  the  eternities 
and  face  their  Maker  under  those  conditions? 

Now  I  realize,  the  Savior  realized  it,  I  did  not  read  far  enough 
to  take  that  into  consideration  because  that  was  not  what  I  was  talk- 
ing about  at  the  time,  that  there  are  some  cases  where  a  wife  needs 
to  have  a  separation,  perhaps  a  husband  should  have  a  separation, 
but  always  because  of  a  violation,  a  serious  violation  of  the  covenants 
that  have  been  made.  But  here  you  have  the  broken  home;  children 
left  without  one  and  maybe  without  both  parents,  to  be  taken  perhaps 
through  the  mercy  of  the  Almighty  into  some  other  faithful  family  to 
be  adopted  in  such  a  family  to  be  theirs  through  all  eternity. 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Dag 

Now  time  will  not  permit  me  to  say  more.  There  is  so  much  that 
could  be  said,  much  perhaps  that  ought  to  be  said.  But  those  who 
violate  this  sacred  and  solemn  covenant  are  going  to  have  a  sorry 
time  of  it  if  they  are  guilty  when  they  come  to  the  judgment  seat  of 
God,  for  they  have  broken  the  bands  of  an  eternal  union  and  lost 
their  promise  of  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

The  Lord  bless  you  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Singing  by  the  congregation  and  the  Choir,  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High." 

ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  with  you  for  the  blessings  of 
this  conference.  I  have  completed  one  year  of  service,  and  I  am 
most  grateful  for  the  experiences  of  this  past  year.  I  want  to  wel- 
come Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  into  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  For 
years  I  have  admired  and  respected  him  for  his  devotion  and  for  his 
friendly  spirit.  I  am  sure  we  will  all  be  happy  with  the  quality  of  the 
service  he  is  able  to  give  the  people  of  the  Church.  I  also  want  to 
welcome  those  who  have  been  selected  as  assistants  to  the  Quorum 
of  the  Apostles,  and  pledge  them  my  love  and  support. 

I  hope,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  I  will  not  detract  from  the  spirit 
of  this  conference.  I  earnestly  pray  for  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  Through  the  sessions  of  this  conference  we  have  had  a 
tremendous  spiritual  uplift,  and  the  counsel  given  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God  and  to  stand  in  holy  places  has  been  timely 
indeed. 

Fasting  and  Prayer 

As  I  have  traveled  about  the  Church  these  past  few  months 
with  members  of  the  general  welfare  committee  and  listened  to  their 
talks  on  fasting  and  prayer,  I  have  felt  this  principle  has  great 
spiritual  power  and  opportunity  for  the  blessings  of  God  to  the  people 
of  the  Church  and  to  the  Church  itself.  I  have  been  impressed  by  its 
great  spiritual  significance.  It  seems  to  me  it  is  a  source  of  strength, 
a  source  of  power,  a  source  of  blessing  that  perhaps  as  a  people  we 
are  not  using  enough;  that  it  does  have  tremendous  spiritual  value  to 
those  who  observe  the  law,  and  who  apply  it  faithfully.  It  also  seems 
to  me  that  fasting  and  prayer  can  be  employed  to  bless  others,  and  if 
we  would  faithfully  observe  the  law,  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  would  collectively  be  given  to  the  people  of  the  Church. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  said,  speaking  of  the  fast,  that  "the 
law  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  understood  by  the  Authorities  of  the 
Church  is  that  food  and  drink  are  not  to  be  partaken  of  for  twenty- 
four  hours,  'from  eve  to  eve,'  and  that  the  Saints  are  to  refrain  from 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLE? 


123 


all  bodily  gratifications  and  indulgences."  Most  Latter-day  Saints, 
I  think,  understand  the  doing  without  two  meals  in  connection  with 
the  monthly  fast  and  giving  the  cash  equivalent  to  the  bishop  as  fast 
offerings,  but  I  am  wondering  along  with  our  fasting  do  we  gather 
our  families  together  and  pray  with  them  that  they  may  enjoy  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord?  Do  we  also  understand  that  the  true  fast 
presupposes  self-restraint  and  purity  of  body  by  refraining  from  all 
bodily  gratifications  and  indulgences?  It  seems  to  me  that  the  soul 
cannot  be  humbled  nor  sanctified  for  the  blessings  of  God  unless  this 
is  true. 

Observance  Brings  Blessings 

The  Saints  by  fasting  and  praying  can  sanctify  the  soul  and 
elevate  the  spirit  to  Christlike  perfection,  and  thus  the  body  would 
be  brought  into  subjection  to  the  spirit,  promote  communion  with  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  insure  spiritual  strength  and  power  to  the  individual. 

By  observing  fasting  and  prayer  in  its  true  spirit,  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  cannot  be  overpowered  by  Satan  tempting  them  to  evil. 
This  morning  in  the  radio  address  of  Elder  Cowley,  titled,  "Man 
Cannot  Live  by  Bread  Alone,"  he  emphasized  the  forty-day  fast  of 
the  Savior.  As  I  have  thought  about  the  Savior's  long  fast  and 
prayers  unto  God,  I  know  his  spirit  was  humbled,  his  soul  was  sancti- 
fied, and  it  gave  him  the  moral  strength  and  the  spiritual  power  to 
resist  the  temptations  of  Satan.  It  also  prepared  him  to  go  forward 
and  complete  the  great  mission  that  God  had  sent  him  on  earth  to 
perform  in  the  interest  of  mankind. 

It  was  through  fasting  and  prayer  that  the  angel  of  God  ap- 
peared to  Cornelius,  and  gained  for  him  and  his  household  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ.  When  Peter  came  to  the  home  of  Cornelius,  he 
wanted  to  know  for  what  reason  he  had  been  called.  Cornelius  said: 

Four  days  ago  I  was  fasting  until  this  hour,  and  at  the  ninth  hour 
I  prayed  in  my  house  and  behold  a  man  stood  before  me  in  bright 
clothing  and  said,  Cornelius  thy  prayer  is  heard  and  thine  alms  are 
had  in  remembrance  in  the  sight  of  God.  (See  Acts  10:3-4.) 

Sons  of  Mosiah 

When  Alma  was  traveling  southward  from  Gideon  to  the  land 
of  Manti,  he  encountered  the  sons  of  Mosiah  returning  to  the  land 
of  Zarahemla.  These  sons  of  Mosiah  had  spent  fourteen  years  doing 
missionary  work  among  the  Lamanites.  Alma  in  all  this  time  had 
not  seen  them  and  was  overjoyed  at  this  chance  meeting.  He  was 
made  glad  because  they  were  still  brethren  in  the  Church  and  king- 
dom of  God,  and  says  Mormon  in  his  abridgment  of  Alma's  record: 

.  .  .  yea,  and  they  had  waxed  strong  in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth; 
for  they  were  men  of  a  sound  understanding  and  they  had  searched  the 
scriptures  diligently,  that  they  might  know  the  word  of  God. 

But  this  is  not  all;  they  had  given  themselves  to  much  prayer,  and 
fasting;  therefore  they  had  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  and  the  spirit  of 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  7  Third  Day 

revelation,  and  when  they  taught,  they  taught  with  power  and  authority 
of  God.  (Alma  17:2-3.) 

This  indicates  the  great  blessings  that  come  to  those  who  ob- 
serve and  keep  this  very  sacred  principle  of  fasting  and  prayer. 

Missionary  Observance 

Recently  it  was  my  privilege  to  tour  the  Northern  California 
Mission,  and  as  I  listened  to  the  missionaries,  your  sons  and  daugh- 
ters, make  their  reports  and  bear  testimony,  I  .was  so  pleased  when 
they  referred  time  and  again  to  fasting  and  prayer,  and  this  they 
resorted  to  often  to  obtain  God's  blessings  for  themselves  in  their 
work.  They  fasted  and  prayed  for  those  who  were  sick  among  them, 
and  when  they  found  it  difficult  to  impress  people  with  the  gospel 
message  of  the  restored  Church,  they  fasted  and  prayed  about  it 
and  received  great  blessings  from  such  fasting  and  prayer. 

Many  of  them  were  fasting  and  praying  that  their  folk  at  home, 
inactive,  would  become  active  in  the  Church.  It  seems  to  me  you 
who  are  leaders  would  do  well  to  fast  and  pray  for  the  Holy  Ghost 
to  guide  you  in  the  selection  of  officers  and  teachers  for  Church  posi- 
tions. Let  the  Lord  give  unto  you  by  his  Holy  Spirit  the  men  and 
women  whom  he  has  chosen. 

Calling  of  Brethren 

We  read  in  the  thirteenth  chapter  of  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles 
that  there  were  in  the  Church  at  Antioch  certain  prophets  and  teach- 
ers, that  among  these  were  Barnabas  and  Saul.  The  record  says, 

As  they  ministered  to  the  Lord,  and  fasted,  the  Holy  Ghost  said, 
Separate  me  Barnabas  and  Saul  for  the  work  whereunto  I  have  called 
them. 

And  when  they  had  fasted  and  prayed,  and  laid  their  hands  on 
them,  they  sent  them  away.  (Acts  13:2-3.) 

We  had  occasion  in  the  upper  room  of  the  temple  the  other  day 
to  witness  a  similar  experience  in  the  selection  of  Elder  Romney  to 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  As  his  name  was  presented,  there  was  a 
unanimous  feeling  that  this  man  had  been  called  of  God  to  the  im- 
portant position  that  he  now  occupies. 

Need  for  Spiritual  Power 

I  feel,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  in  our  work,  and  our  callings, 
also  in  our  homes,  that  we  individually  need  the  spiritual  power,  the 
strength,  the  guidance,  and  the  blessings  that  fasting  and  prayer  will 
obtain. 

On  one  occasion  when  Jesus  came  to  his  disciples,  he  found  the 
scribes  asking  them  questions.  When  he  inquired  as  to  the  nature 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY  125 


of  their  questions,  a  man  stepped  forward  and  said  he  had  brought 
his  son,  possessed  of  an  evil  spirit,  to  the  disciples,  and  they  could 
not  cast  him  out.  He  pleaded  with  the  Savior  to  cast  out  this  evil 
spirit  that  was  sorely  vexing  his  son.  The  Savior  asked  him  if  he  be- 
lieved, and  he  said,  "Lord,  I  believe;  help  thou  my  unbelief."  The 
Master  did  cast  out  the  evil  spirit  from  the  son  and  restored  him  to 
the  father.  As  he  entered  into  the  house,  the  disciples  came  to  him 
and  said,  "Why  could  not  we  cast  him  out?"  And  Jesus  answered, 
"This  kind  can  come  forth  by  nothing,  but  by  prayer  and  fasting." 
(See  Mark  9:14-29.) 

It  seems  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  particularly  my  brethren 
holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  that  when  we  are  called  to  ad- 
minister to  the  sick  who  are  sorely  afflicted,  if  we  would  humble  our 
souls  through  fasting  and  prayer,  we  would  be  close  to  our  Heavenly 
Father  and  have  claim  upon  him  for  the  blessings  to  those  we  love 
and  seek  to  help. 

City  of  Nineveh 

In  the  interest  of  saving  time  ( as  many  other  examples  showing 
the  great  value  of  fasting  and  prayer  could  be  given )  may  I  say  that 
there  are  great  powers,  virtues,  and  blessings  in  this  divine  law. 
When  Jonah  was  sent  to  the  city  of  Nineveh  to  warn  them  of  their 
destruction  because  of  wickedness,  they  repented  in  sackcloth  and 
ashes,  and  by  decree  all  in  that  city  fasted  and  prayed.  Their  flocks 
and  herds  were  also  required  to  do  without  food  and  drink.  God 
accepted  this  display  of  repentance  and  humility  through  fasting  and 
prayer  and  turned  aside  his  anger  and  the  city  was  not  destroyed. 

It  seems  to  me  that  if  a  city  could  obtain  such  a  blessing  by  fast- 
ing and  prayer,  a  nation  also  could  be  similarly  blessed  of  God.  We 
as  a  people,  by  emphasizing  this  principle,  could  obtain  great  bless- 
ings for  ourselves  and  for  the  Church  in  general. 

Many  times  during  this  conference  we  have  been  reminded  that 
conditions  are  serious,  that  the  affairs  of  the  world  are  in  a  muddle, 
that  there  are  many  uncertainties,  that  men  in  and  of  their  own  wis- 
dom and  learning  are  not  finding  the  great  answers  to  the  problems 
of  humanity  and  the  world.  And  as  a  result,  the  hearts  of  men  are 
failing  them.  Surely  in  these  conditions  of  uncertainty,  these  condi- 
tions of  wickedness  and  vice  we  need  the  sustaining  and  guiding 
power  of  Almighty  God,  which  we  can  obtain  from  our  Heavenly 
Father  through  the  exercise  of  this  great  principle  of  fasting  and 
prayer.  As  a  people  we  need  the  direction,  the  revelations,  and  the 
blessings  of  Almighty  God,  which  we  can  only  obtain  by  humbling 
our  souls  through  fasting  and  prayer  and  in  keeping  God's  command- 
ments. Therefore,  we  should  fast  and  pray  for  those  in  high  Church 
positions,  that  God  will  favor  them  with  the  revelations  of  his  mind 
and  will  that  we  may  be  guided  through  this  period  of  uncertainty 
and  darkness. 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Dag 

Example  of  Nephites 

We  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  in  the  beginning  of  the 
fifty-first  year  of  the  Judges,  the  people  of  Nephi  enjoyed  peace, 
prosperity,  and  plenty,  but  yet  they  were  a  faithful  people  in  keeping 
the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  However,  during  this 
year  of  the  Judges,  pride  started  to  creep  into  the  hearts  of  the  people, 
and  those  who  had  been  lifted  up  in  this  pride  began  to  persecute 
their  brethren;  therefore  it  was  difficult  for  the  faithful  members  to 
exercise  the  freedom  of  their  church  beliefs.  The  account  reads: 

Nevertheless  they  did  fast  and  pray  oft,  and  did  wax  stronger  and 
stronger  in  their  humility,  and  firmer  and  firmer  in  the  faith  of  Christ, 
unto  the  filling  their  souls  with  joy  and  consolation,  yea.  even  to  the 
purifying  and  the  sanctification  of  their  hearts,  which  sanctification  Com- 
eth because  of  their  yielding  their  hearts  unto  God.  (Helaman  3:35.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  if  we  fast  and  pray  often  I  am  sure 
that  we,  too,  can  wax  stronger  and  stronger  in  our  faith  and  in  our 
humility  that  our  hearts  will  be  filled  with  joy  and  consolation;  that 
we  will  also  purify  and  sanctify  our  hearts,  which  sanctification  will 
come  because  we  do  yield  our  hearts  unto  God. 

May  God  bless  us,  may  he  help  us  to  understand  this  great 
principle  of  the  fast,  help  us  to  observe  it  in  its  true  spirit,  help  us 
that  we  may  give  to  the  bishop  the  cash  equivalent  of  the  meals  we 
do  not  partake  of  in  the  interest  of  the  poor  of  the  Church;  and  I  am 
sure,  and  I  promise  you  that  as  a  people  we  shall  be  blessed.  You  will 
also  be  blessed  individually  in  the  observance  of  this  great  principle. 
May  this  be  true,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

This  conference,  I  am  sure,  has  had  as  its  theme  the  home. 

Example  of  McKay  Family 

Twenty-eight  years  ago  I  was  adopted  by  the  people  of  Ogden 
and  Weber  County.  I  believe  now  that  I  can  safely  say  I  belong  to 
them.  As  I  have  seen  it,  I  think  that  the  greatest  influence  in  Weber 
County  through  the  years  has  been  the  example  of  the  McKay  fam- 
ily in  establishing  and  keeping  a  home.  I  say  the  McKay  family 
because  President  McKay  has  many  brothers  and  sisters.  I  have 
never  seen  such  unity  in  a  family.  Weber  County  knows  that.  I 
have  had  many  happy  associations  with  Brother  Thomas  McKay. 
I  was  happy  that  Brother  Petersen  said  what  he  did  the  other  day 
concerning  him.  If  there  were  time,  I  could  and  would  tell  you  other 
things  which  have  shown  me  the  breadth,  and  the  love,  and  the 
desire  of  this  good  man  who  sits  down  in  the  lower  tiers  to  give  of 
himself  to  the  people  of  that  county,  and  to  the  Church.  There  isn't 


ELDER  S.  D1LW0RTH  YOUNG  127 


a  person  in  Weber  County  but  who  knows  that  he  can  ask  President 
David  O.  McKay  to  come  and  speak  at  the  funerals  of  bereaved 
loved  ones.  All  feel  they  can  do  that.  All  restrain  themselves  because 
of  his  time.  They  all  call  him  affectionately  David  O,  behind  his 
back.  To  his  face,  of  course,  they  give  him  his  proper  title,  but 
everywhere  one  goes  in  Weber  County  it  is  "David  O.,"  unless  they 
want  to  tell  a  story  about  him,  and  then  it  is  shortened  to  "D.O." 

I  am  sure  it  is  all  done  with  affection.  There  is  an  old  saying 
that  "Home  is  where  the  heart  is."  People  from  Weber  County  are 
not  deceived  by  the  fact  that  Brother  McKay  lives  on  East  South 
Temple  Street.  They  know  he  is  forced  to  live  there,  but  that,  had 
he  his  way,  his  address  is,  and  always  will  be  Huntsville,  Weber 
County,  Utah. 

The  example  of  this  family  and  its  resulting  influence  in  our 
county  is  a  testimony  of  the  influence  of  good  example  in  home  ideal- 
ism. Truly  we  of  Weber  County,  and  I  suspect  the  rest  of  the 
Church  also,  know  that  if  we  will  but  follow  the  example  of  our  be- 
loved leader  in  establishing  and  keeping  a  home,  we  surely  will  find 
peace  and  joy. 

Mission  to  the  Indians 

I  have  one  more  thought.  I  would  not  argue  as  to  which  of  the 
revelations  is  the  most  important,  but  there  is  no  question  that  the 
longest  revelation  given  to  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  is  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  Each  of  its  six  hundred  pages  reveals  the  dealings  of  Jesus 
Christ  with  those  whom  he  loved  as  his  own  family,  the  House  of 
Israel.  When  the  Prophet  read  the  revelation,  I  do  not  know  what 
was  stirred  up  in  his  mind,  but  I  know  what  he  did.  He  read  that 
the  gospel  had  to  be  taken  to  the  remnants  of  the  House  of  Israel  in 
this  land.  One  of  the  first  acts  that  he  performed  was  to  begin  this 
work.  He  sent  Oliver  Cowdery,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  Ziba  Peterson, 
and  Peter  Whitmer,  Jr.,  on  a  mission  to  the  Indian  people.  It  was 
a  tough,  long  haul  they  had  in  winter,  on  foot,  through  the  wilderness 
from  where  they  were  at  that  time  to  the  borders  of  Missouri,  but 
the  hazards  of  the  journey  did  not  stop  them.  What  did  they  ac- 
complish? Perhaps  not  much.  They  were  able  to  talk  to  an  Indian 
chief;  they  made  the  tribe  quite  excited;  and  then  the  Indian  agent 
and  the  ministers  of  the  surrounding  territory  descended  upon  them 
and  drove  them  out.  But  one  thing  they  did  do  from  which  we  can 
take  a  lesson.  They  tried  to  fulfil  a  prophecy.  It  becomes  our  duty 
now  to  continue  and  try  again  to  fulfil  that  prophecy;  a  prophecy 
that  the  gospel  would  go  in  the  last  days  to  these  people  until  the 
time  that  they  would  take  their  proper  place  in  the  establishment  of 
the  Center  Place  and  of  Zion  itself. 

Gospel  Acceptance  Individual 

Now  I  recognize  that  the  acceptance  of  the  gospel  is  an  indi- 
vidual thing.   We  aren't  going  to  convert  these  friends  of  ours  in 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  7  Third  Day 

multitudes.  I  remind  the  missionaries  who  are  assigned  to  these  peo- 
ple that  they  must  go  from  house  to  house  and  bear  their  witness  to 
individuals.  There  may  be  many,  but  we  must  seek  them  out  one 
by  one.  We  have  been  their  conquerors — I  don't  mean  the  Church. 
I  mean  the  white  people  of  this  land.  They  have  been  the  subjected 
people.  We  know  the  story  of  how  they  have  been  downtrodden. 
There  is  no  time  now  to  talk  about  that.  They  expect  something 
from  us.  What  they  want  is  help  to  rise,  not  relief;  understanding, 
not  pity;  opportunity,  not  charity.  And  I  remind  you  that  there  are 
thirty-four  million  of  them  in  these  two  Americas,  only  three  hundred 
and  thirty-four  thousand  of  them  in  the  United  States,  a  hundred 
thousand  in  Canada,  fifteen  thousand  in  Alaska,  three  million,  five 
hundred  thousand  in  Central  America,  and  seventeen  million  who  are 
of  the  blood  of  Israel  in  Mexico,  in  addition  to  those  of  the  South 
American  continent. 

Aztec  Indian  Boy 

I  think  I  see  one  way  by  which  many  of  these  things  are  going  to 
be  accomplished  in  something  which  happened  to  me  a  short  time  ago, 
and  with  that  I  shall  close.  I  was  talking  to  a  boy.  He  was  a  little 
older  than  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  when  he  received  the  First  Vision; 
he  was  about  the  age  of  the  Prophet  when  he  organized  the  Church. 
He  was  an  Indian  boy  of  Aztec  descent.  His  mother  accepted  the 
gospel  years  ago  in  a  little  village  on  the  slopes  of  those  immense 
volcanoes  in  the  valley  of  Mexico.  She  and  her  sister  came  to  this 
valley  years  ago,  and  by  dint  of  hard  work,  perseverance,  and  love, 
they  have  reared  a  delightful  family.  They  have  sent  three  of  their 
children  on  missions.  This  lad  of  whom  I  speak  had  just  been  given 
an  honor,  a  scholarship  to  a  great  eastern  university  because  of  the 
fine  work  he  had  done  in  chemistry.  I  said  to  him,  "What  are  you 
going  to  do  when  you  finish?  I  suppose  you  are  going  to  become  a 
doctor  of  philosophy." 

"That's  right,"  he  said. 

"And  after  that,  what?  Where  are  you  going?" 

He  looked  up  at  me,  and  in  the  shy  way  that  these  people  have 
(they  don't  like  to  stare  at  a  person,  they  glance  up  at  one  quickly 
and  want  to  be  sure  one  understands)  he  said,  "When  I  get  through, 
I  am  going  home." 

"Where  is  home?"  I  asked,  because  I  knew  he  had  been  reared 
right  here. 

"I  am  going  back  to  the  valley  of  Mexico  whence  my  mother 
came  and  try  to  teach  my  people  what  I  have  discovered." 

"What  place  does  the  gospel  have  in  that?"  I  questioned. 

He  said,  "I  intend  to  teach  the  gospel  along  with  the  chemistry." 

That,  I  think,  is  a  key  to  what  we  may  expect  when  these  people, 
these  loved  ones  of  ours,  these  of  the  House  of  Israel,  come  into  the 
Church  in  numbers.  They  will  come  if  we  but  strive  diligently. 

I  know  the  gospel  is  true.  I  bear  my  witness  that  Jesus  is  the 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON  129 


Christ,  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  inspired  of  God  to  do 
all  of  the  things  that  he  did  to  establish  the  kingdom  and  that  these 
who  sit  on  this  stand  behind  me  are  verily  prophets  of  God.  In  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  bear  this  testimony.  Amen. 

BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

President  McKay,  President  Richards,  President  Clark,  and  my 
dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  feel  very  humble  this  morning. 

I  think  the  service  that  started  here  in  the  Tabernacle  at  eight 
o'clock  this  morning  has  been  heavenly  and  divine.  I  sincerely  pray 
that  the  Lord  will  sustain  me,  give  me  the  strength  and  the  inspira- 
tion that  I  know  I  need  while  I  stand  here.  I  have  prayed  humbly,  I 
believe,  that  the  Lord  would  purge  my  soul  of  everything  that  is 
not  of  him. 

Spirit  of  Conference 

I  have  rejoiced  with  you  in  the  spirit  of  this  conference.  The 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been  here  in  rich  abundance.  No  one  could 
attend  these  sessions  and  not  feel  the  holy  influence  of  our  Father 
in  heaven.  No  one  could  come  here  with  the  right  spirit,  with  the 
spirit  of  peace  and  love,  and  the  spirit  of  worship,  and  not  know  that 
these  brethren  are  inspired  of  the  Lord. 

We  come  here  by  the  thousands.  The  first  conference  in  this 
Tabernacle  was  held  eighty-four  years  ago  now  this  October  con- 
ference, and  we  have  assembled  semi-annually  since  that  time  with 
very  few  exceptions.  Many  of  the  men  and  the  brethren  who  have 
attended  are  not  here  now. 

I  am  thinking  of  Bishop  Marvin  O.  Ashton  who  spoke  here  five 
years  ago  at  the  Sunday  session  of  the  October  conference.  As  I 
have  gone  about  the  Church,  many  of  you  fine  brethren  have  ex- 
pressed your  great  love  and  affection  for  Bishop  Ashton.  Yes,  he 
loved  the  people,  and  the  people  loved  him.  He  loved  the  Church, 
and  he  loved  the  Lord. 

Many  who  have  come  to  this  block  are  impressed  with  the  feeling 
and  the  spirit  they  have  while  they  are  here.  Many  of  them  tell  us 
that  they  feel  different  here  than  they  do  anywhere  else.  Well, 
that  is  right.  They  do  feel  different  here  because  this  is  a  sacred 
block — this  building,  and  the  temple  to  the  east  have  all  been  dedi- 
cated to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  his  influence  is  here. 

Inspiration  of  Temple  Square 

I  would  like  to  read  a  paragraph  from  three  of  the  people  who 
were  recently  here.  One  of  them  from  Arizona  sent  this  paragraph: 

The  inspiration  which  we  derived  on  Temple  Square  will  always  be 
remembered,  and  there  will  always  be  a  fond  spot  in  our  hearts  for  the 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Dag 

people  of  Utah.  Those  who  come  from  outside  your  state  can  only  marvel 
at  the  wonderful  feeling  which  we  felt  there.  It  brings  a  new  understand- 
ing into  our  lives  to  realize  that  we  are  all  the  children  of  God,  and  it  has 
meant  much  to  me  to  know  that  life  can  still  be  joyous  and  beautiful. 

Here  is  one  from  Delaware: 

What  golden  memories  we  have  from  being  in  Salt  Lake  City.  It 
seems  to  me  that  it  means  more  because  of  the  setting,  and  because  of  the 
spiritual  uplift  and  devotion  to  principles  and  ideals.  As  I  entered  that 
great  Tabernacle,  I  felt  a  peace,  and  that  feeling  has  remained  with  me. 
We  went  from  there  filled  with  the  highest  admiration  for  your  people 
and  for  the  wonderful  principles  for  which  you  stand. 

Then  this  one  came  from  Ohio: 

The  thought  keeps  going  through  my  mind  that  God  was  really  in 
that  place.  The  unusual  way  in  which  all  of  your  people  demonstrated 
the  true  living  of  your  religion  gave  me  a  real  insight  into  Mormonism 
which  we  would  have  had  in  no  other  way.  I  am  very  grateful  per- 
sonally for  the  opportunity  of  my  enlarged  understanding  of  your 
principles. 

People  that  come  here  in  the  right  attitude  feel  the  holy  influ- 
ence of  our  Father  in  heaven.  It  is  up  to  you  and  me  to  make  sure  that 
they  do  not  leave  here  with  an  incorrect  feeling.  Oh,  my  brethren 
and  friends  and  associates,  in  the  Church  and  out  of  the  Church,  who 
are  somewhat  inactive,  and  who  are  uninterested,  I  would  plead  with 
you  with  all  the  earnestness  of  my  soul  that  you  repent  of  your 
wrongdoings.  Let  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  come  into  your  hearts,  and 
you  will  know  joy  that  you  have  never  known  before. 

Repentance  of  Wrongdoings 

Repent  of  your  wrongdoings,  and  the  Lord  will  forgive  you, 
because  he  has  told  us  that  if  we  would  repent  and  overcome  our 
weaknesses  and  imperfections  and  come  unto  him, 

.  .  .  the  same  shall  be  clothed  in  white  raiment;  and  I  will  not  blot  out 
his  name  out  of  the  book  of  life,  but  I  will  confess  his  name  before  my 
Father,  and  before  his  angels.  (Revelation  3:5.) 

Let  us  repent  of  our  wrongdoings,  humbly  and  truly,  so  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  can  dwell  with  us.  To  you,  my  brethren,  who  may 
be  listening  in  on  the  air  or  who  may  be  watching  television  or  who 
may  read  the  proceedings  of  the  conference,  I  would  plead  with 
you  that  you  not  divorce  yourselves  longer  from  the  activities  of  the 
Church  because  it  is  impossible  for  you  to  know  the  happiness  that 
is  waiting  for  you  without  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

To  our  young  people,  stay  very  close  to  the  Church.  You  young 
men  in  business,  you  young  professional  men  and  you  boys  in 
college,  you  young  married  people,  don't  feel  any  longer  that  you 
can  get  along  alone.  Take  the  Lord  into  your  confidence  with  all 
your  hearts.  It  ought  not  to  be  hard  when  we  recognize  and  under- 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON  131 


stand  that  he  knows  the  feelings  of  our  souls,  anyway.  Let  us  put 
aside  that  false  pride,  and  you  young  people  don't  be  too  anxious 
for  success.  Don't  be  in  a  hurry.  Don't  want  to  make  all  the  dollars 
you  can,  and  while  you  are  so  doing,  divorce  yourselves  from  the 
Church. 

Importance  of  Faith 

Oh,  the  blessings  that  await  you  if  you  will  only  come  and 
mingle  with  the  Saints  of  the  Church!  Attend  your  sacrament  meet- 
ings. It  seems  that  our  people  need  to  be  continually  encouraged  to 
attend  their  sacrament  meetings.  They  should  come  to  sacrament 
meetings  in  large  numbers  as  often  as  possible.  We  should  partake 
of  the  sacrament  and  renew  our  covenants  with  the  Lord,  so  that 
during  the  following  week  we  may  be  able  to  withstand  those  tempta- 
tions with  which  we  are  confronted. 

To  you  young  people,  do  not  lose  faith  in  the  Church.  Do  not 
lose  faith  in  the  government.  There  may  be  things  done  by  men  in 
high  places  that  you  do  not  approve,  but  do  not  judge  the  govern- 
ment by  that.  Think  of  your  founding  forefathers,  of  your  Consti- 
tution, divinely  inspired  of  the  Lord,  and  you  will  not  lose  faith  in 
your  land  or  in  your  government. 

Letter  From  Korea 

Have  faith  in  the  Lord  at  all  times.  I  have  a  letter  here  from  a 
young  man  in  Korea  that  I  would  like  to  read,  and  if  a  young  man 
in  Korea  can  live  and  write  as  this  young  man  has  lived  and  has 
written,  you  likewise  can  go  and  do  the  same. 

From  Korea  he  wrote: 

Dear  Bishop:  I  wish  I  could  find  the  words  to  explain  my  feelings 
while  I  read  your  most  welcome  letter.  In  a  war-stricken  world  as  I  am 
now  living  in,  I  couldn't  have  received  a  more  warm  and  appreciative  wish 
than  you  gave  me.  A  guy's  soul  gets  so  low  and  tired  of  seeing  the  world 
about  one  fall  in  ruins,  and  taking  thousands  of  innocent  people  with  it. 

It  makes  a  guy  like  me  realize  how  lucky  the  American  people  are, 
but  I  wonder  if  they  appreciate  it.  I  have  been  here  in  Korea  ever  since 
the  war  broke  out.  I  am  really  getting  pretty  tired,  and  I  will  be  so  glad 
when  this  mess  is  all  over  with. 

My  entire  life  has  changed  so  much  since  I  came  here  over  two  years 
ago.  It  seems  more  like  ten  years  to  me,  since  I  have  experienced  so 
much  in  these  last  two  years. 

Before  I  left  home  I  didn't  realize  what  nice  people  I  was  accustomed 
to,  but  after  seeing  the  outside  world  I  now  appreciate  my  family  for 
teaching  me  the  good  things  that  they  taught  me.  I  begin  to  see  the 
difference  between  people  I  was  used  to  living  with  and  those  of  the  out- 
side world.  I  have  missed  decent  people  who  were  taught  the  ways  of 
the  Lord,  which  he  has  asked  us  to  live.  I  have  missed  friendly  neighbors 
who  always  greeted  me  with  a  smile.  I  miss  my  Sunday  School  and  the 
association  of  my  people.  All  that  I  have  seen  here  are  temptation  and 
sin  that  I  would  never  have  been  able  to  fight  down  had  it  not  been  for 
the  teachings  that  I  received  in  my  home  and  in  this  Church. 

It  seemed  as  if  every  time  sin  crossed  my  path  because  of  loneliness, 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  7  Third  Day 

I  would  then  see  my  mother's  face  and  my  people  at  home  looking  at  me 
as  though  they  trusted  me  and  expected  me  to  be  an  example  of  right 
living  until  I  returned  home,  to  live  so  that  I  would  be  worthy  of  a  fine 
girl  and  have  life's  happiness  and  a  home  and  children. 

God  only  knows  the  torture  a  guy  goes  through  from  being  so  far 
from  home  under  such  trying  circumstances.  I  will  say  with  all  my  heart 
that  I  believe  in  God  and  prayer.  Otherwise  I  never  would  have  suc- 
ceeded and  survived.  When  I  felt  alone,  I  would  walk  at  night  so  that 
I  could  pray  to  my  God.  I  prayed  that  he  would  help  me  live  a  clean  life 
and  find  satisfaction  and  happiness  in  living  that  way.  For  that  reason,  I 
have  been  successful. 

I  went  to  school  and  was  graduated,  and  then  I  went  to  Japan.  I 
worked  in  an  office  as  a  typist.  I  found  a  liking  for  the  work,  and  I 
worked  hard  to  keep  it  and  earn  promotions.  My  most  trying  time  in 
Korea  was  when  the  United  Nations  forces  were  so  hard  pressed.  There 
I  lost  my  best  buddy.  He  was  shot  down  through  the  head  right  before 
my  eyes.  I  will  never  forget  that  as  long  as  I  live.  That  is  my  deepest 
regret  in  coming  to  Korea. 

I  have  had  several  terribly  close  calls,  but  I  know  that  God  has  saved 
my  life  and  saved  my  soul.  I  trust  him  completely  with  it,  and  my  wish 
is  for  him  to  be  the  judge.  I  guess  I  should  have  fear,  but  I  don't  any 
more.  After  seeing  my  buddy  die,  I  feel  I  am  no  better  than  he  was, 
so  far  that  reason  I  want  to  leave  it  for  God  to  decide,  and  I  don't 
worry  about  it.  We  have  lost  lots  of  good  boys  over  here,  probably  many 
more  than  the  people  of  America  realize.  I  know  I  would  be  the  happiest 
guy  alive  if  I  was  home  to  attend  your  meetings,  and  be  part  of  them, 
and  it  is  the  true  work  of  God  that  is  striving  to  keep  the  world  at  peace 
today. 

No  person  could  be  doing  more  to  make  a  peaceful  world  than  to 
live  and  teach  God's  ways  of  living.  My  prayer  will  always  be  with  all 
of  you  in  your  work. 

Our  hearts  and  prayers  go  out  to  these  boys  that  are  there,  and 
the  thousands  who  will  yet  go.  Oh,  is  it  asking  too  much  that  we 
pray  for  them  daily?  Whether  they  are  our  own  or  not,  they  are 
somebody's  boys.  Let  us  pray  for  them.  Let  us  write  to  them.  Think 
how  you  would  feel  if  you  were  a  young  man  in  the  service,  way 
over  in  Korea,  and  at  the  end  of  a  hard  day  if  you  came  to  your 
bunk  at  night  and  found  a  letter  from  some  of  your  folk  or  your 
friends,  to  help  buoy  you  up. 

Testimony 

Well,  I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God 
lives.  I  know  that  he  hears  prayers.  I  know  that  his  Spirit  can  dwell 
with  men,  and  I  know  it  can  withdraw  from  them,  and  I  know  it  is 
up  to  you  and  me  to  live  close  enough  to  the  Lord  that  we  can  have 
the  companionship  of  his  sweet  Spirit. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  that  we  may  take  to  our  homes  and  apply 
in  our  lives  the  messages  of  these  conferences.  Oh,  parents,  stay 
close  to  your  children.  Love  them  with  all  your  hearts.  Hold  them 
near  and  dear  to  you.  They  need  you  today  as  they  have  never 
needed  you  before. 

May  God  bless  the  youth  that  they  may  stay  close  to  the 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


133 


Church,  and  that  we  will  be  mindful  of  them,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  happy  to  see  in  the  audience  the  state,  county,  and  city 
officials,  the  state  superintendent  of  schools,  the  president  and  deans 
from  the  Brigham  Young  University  and  the  Ricks  College,  members 
of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  the  Church  Department  of 
Education  including  directors  of  Institutes  and  Seminaries.  We  are 
pleased  to  express  our  pleasure  at  the  presence  of  Dr.  Wilbur  LaRoe 
of  Washington,  who  is  present  here  today,  and  who  will  deliver  the 
address  at  the  inauguration  ceremonies  for  Dr.  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson, 
President  of  the  Brigham  Young  University.  These  services  will 
be  held  in  the  new  Fieldhouse  at  Provo  tomorrow  at  ten  o'clock  a.m. 
All  are  invited,  whether  you  have  received  a  printed  invitation 
or  not. 

Among  the  educators  present  I  wish  specifically  to  mention  the 
president  of  the  Brigham  Young  University,  the  president  of  the 
University  of  Utah,  the  president  of  the  Utah  State  Agricultural  Col- 
lege, the  president  of  the  Weber  College,  and  the  president  of  the 
Branch  Agricultural  College  at  Cedar  City.  I  have  just  been  re- 
minded too  that  Mrs.  Wilbur  LaRoe  is  accompanying  her  husband 
on  this  official  visit,  and  we  extend  a  hearty  welcome  to  both. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing:  "Lamb  of  God,"  Elder  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall  conducting. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Edward  B.  Clark,  Patri- 
arch to  the  Davis  Stake,  following  which  this  conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  proceedings  of  this  afternoon's  session  will  be  broadcast 
over  all  stations  as  heretofore  announced,  and  over  television. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  Elder  Cornwall  conducting,  and  Elder  Asper  at 
the  organ. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Lamb  of  God,"  after  which  the 
closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Edward  E.  Clark,  Patriarch  to  the 
Davis  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2:00  p.m., 
Sunday,  October  7th. 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  concluding  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty- 
second  Semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

These  services  are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
in  Barratt  Hall,  60  North  Main,  over  a  loud-speaking  system,  and 
by  television. 

The  proceedings  will  be  broadcast  also  over  Station  KSL,  Salt 
Lake  City,  and,  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  stations 
named  in  the  first  session  of  this  conference. 

This  session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  sta- 
tion, channel  5. 

The  music  is  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  under  the  direc- 
tion of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  conductor,  and  Alexander  Schreiner  at 
the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  singing: 
"O  Praise  Ye  God." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Elias  Peterson, 
Patriarch  to  the  North  Weber  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "O  Praise  Ye  God." 

Elias  Peterson,  Patriarch  in  the  North  Sevier  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Hear  Our  Prayer." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Musical  harmony  and  expression  sublime! 

Following  Elder  Joseph  F.  Merrill  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
who  will  now  speak  to  us,  will  be  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren,  sisters,  and  radio  listeners:  During  the  few  minutes 
allotted  to  me,  I  purpose  talking  about  a  few  matters  that  I  feel  are 
important  enough  to  justify  my  asking  your  attention  to  them.  They 
are  not  new,  but  they  are  current  and  vitally  concern  us  in  our 
daily  lives.  They  have  been  much  discussed  but  are  in  need  of  more 
attention  than  they  have  yet  received  from  many  of  us.  They  have 
to  do  with  both  our  material  and  spiritual  well-being.  They  are 
directed  to  our  own  Church  people,  but  we  invite  all  others  to  con- 
sider them. 

The  Apostle  Paul  wrote,  as  you  know,  these  words: 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


135 


Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple  of  God  and  that  the  Spirit  of 
God  dwelleth  in  you? 

If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God,  him  shall  God  destroy;  for  the 
temple  of  God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are.  (I  Cor.  3: 16-17.) 

The  Word  of  Wisdom 

As  a  means  of  preserving  our  bodies  from  certain  types  of  de- 
filement (destruction),  the  Lord  gave  to  the  Church  in  its  very 
beginning,  and  to  the  human  family  generally,  a  revelation  that  has 
properly  been  called  a  law  of  health,  better  known  among  us  as  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  printed  as  section  eighty-nine  of  the  book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Years  ago  I  was  present  in  a  meeting 
where  a  prominent  non-Mormon  doctor  of  medicine  referred  to  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  as  the  Lord's  Law  of  Health  and  said  so  far  as 
he  knew  it  was  the  best  brief  statement  in  the  English  language  of 
the  conditions  that  must  be  observed  if  good  health  continued.  This 
is  a  truth  related  not  only  to  the  material  world  but  to  the  spiritual 
realm  as  well,  as  has  been  said  several  times  in  this  conference,  quot- 
ing Joseph  Smith  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  We  get  no  bless- 
ing from  God  except  by  obeying  the  law  upon  which  the  blessing  is 
predicated.  I  repeat,  good  health  is  continued  only  if  we  obey  the 
laws  of  health. 

In  the  revelation  referred  to,  the  Lord  said  liquor  and  tobacco 
are  not  good  for  man — truths  that  have  since  been  abundantly  con- 
firmed by  the  observations  and  research  work  of  highly-qualified  in- 
vestigators. However,  in  the  revelation  the  Lord  did  not  give  rea- 
sons; it  was  unnecessary  to  do  so.  Some  of  them  were  already 
known.  The  Lord  knew  others  would  be  discovered  by  his  inquisitive 
children. 

Let  us  summarize  a  few  of  the  authoritative  statements  relative 
to  the  effects  of  liquor  and  tobacco.  As  to  tobacco,  it  contains  nico- 
tine, one  of  the  most  deadly  poisons  known  to  the  pharmacist.  It 
affects  injuriously  the  heart,  the  brain  and  mental  powers,  the  nervous 
system,  the  kidneys  and  elimination  organs,  the  muscular  system, 
etc.,  thus  weakening  the  body  with  the  result  that  it  is  less  resistant 
to  various  kinds  of  disease. 

Facts  About  Tobacco 

Dr.  Irving  Fisher  of  Yale  University,  long  noted  as  a  writer  on 
matters  relative  to  human  health,  wrote,  among  other  things  in  the 
preface  to  Dr.  Frank  L.  Wood's  book  What  You  Should  Know 
about  Tobacco,  the  following: 

I  have  had  unusual  opportunities  to  become  familiar  with  the  many- 
sided  tobacco  problem.  The  evidence  now  exists  sufficient  to  show  that 
no  one  who  smokes  can  achieve  the  best  of  which  he  or  she  is  capable, 
whether  this  be  a  foot  race,  a  prize  fight,  a  golf  game,  a  rifle  score,  writ- 
ing, speaking,  singing,  acting,  performing  on  violin,  piano,  or  typewriter, 
attainment  of  health,  strength,  endurance,  beauty,  glamor,  or  any  other 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Dag 

excellence  on  which  men  and  women  set  their  hearts.  It  is  time  that 
those  ambitious  in  all  other  lines  of  work  should  also  learn  the  truth  that 
tobacco  harms,  never  helps. 

The  use  of  tobacco  shortens  life.  This  fact  was  satisfactorily 
demonstrated  to  the  scientific  world  by  Dr.  Raymond  Pearl  of  Johns 
Hopkins  University,  who  published  fifteen  years  ago  a  research  paper 
in  which  he  showed  that  on  an  average  heavy  smokers  die  about 
ten  years  sooner  than  non-smokers  and  moderate  smokers  from  three 
to  five  years  sooner.  Everybody  knows  that  college  athletic  coaches 
do  not  permit  their  boys  to  smoke.  Yes,  the  use  of  tobacco  is  injuri- 
ous to  man. 

Effects  of  Alcohol 

Now  relative  to  alcohol:  Some  of  the  facts  relative  to  the  in- 
jurious effects  of  consumed  alcohol  are  briefly  stated  by  the  eminent 
authority,  Dr.  Haven  Emerson,  as  follows: 

1.  We  have  learned  that  alcohol,  as  commonly  used  today,  causes 
more  diseases,  disability,  and  death  than  any  other  cause  of  ill  health 
which  is  wholly  in  the  power  of  the  individual  to  prevent  and  avoid. 

2.  Medical  sciences  have  learned  and  found  that  alcohol  is  not  a  food, 
a  stimulant,  or  harmful  only  in  drunkenness.  That  was  the  former  be- 
lief. The  liver,  stomach,  and  heart  were  supposed  to  suffer  only  from 
drunkenness.  Those  are  the  least  of  the  damages  alcohol  causes.  Deaths 
from  alcoholism  are  the  least  of  the  harm  that  alcohol  causes.  It  is  the 
constant  and  severe  interference  with  human  relations,  the  disturbance  of 
the  conduct  of  people  to  each  other,  that  is  the  major  damage  that  alcohol 
does  in  our  society  today. 

3.  Alcohol  is  a  depressant  narcotic  drug,  not  a  stimulant.  That  cannot 
be  too  often  repeated.  The  effects  of  alcohol  are  almost  entirely,  if  not 
wholly,  to  be  experienced  by  its  toxic  damage  to  the  central  nervous 
system,  the  brain,  and  spinal  cord.  It  is  upon  those  tissues  that  the  action 
of  alcohol  shows  most  strikingly.  The  only  thing  that  distinguishes  man 
from  the  brute  is  his  power  of  self-direction,  self-control,  judgment,  dis- 
cretion. Those  things  are  the  first  qualities  of  man  that  are  destroyed 
by  alcohol,  long  before  there  is  any  obvious  interference  with  the  muscles 
and  motor  functions  of  the  body. 

4.  Alcohol  is  not  describable  as  a  food  which  forms  any  part  of  a 
wholesome  diet. 

5.  In  recent  times,  it  has  been  observed  that  the  lifesaving  reflexes  of 
the  body  are  all  slowed  from  five  to  ten  percent  by  amounts  of  alcohol  too 
small  to  be  socially  appreciable,  and  in  amounts  far  smaller  than  can 
ever  be  registered  under  the  law  or  by  the  police  as  indicating  intoxica- 
tion. In  amounts  too  small  to  be  appreciated,  alcohol  slows  the  reflexes 
of  the  body,  which  we  are  endowed  with  to  protect  ourselves  from  de- 
struction— the  nervous  reflex  action  of  the  eye,  the  ear,  the  muscles — which 
we  depend  on  in  this  world  of  speed  and  power  and  uncontrolled  human 
association.  The  evidence  shows  there  is  no  form  of  human  activity 
so  far  tested  which  does  not  show  inferiority  of  performance  as  the  in- 
variable sequel  of  the  absorption  of  alcohol  in  amounts  smaller  than  would 
be  recognized  as  of  toxic  significance. 

6.  Perhaps  the  most  important  of  all  is  the  positive  statement  that 
no  evidence  of  improvement  in  human  health  has  so  far  been  found  to 
result  from  the  use  of  alcohol  in  the  normal  human  being. 

7.  Alcohol,  as  used,  causes  many  times  more  deaths  than  the  in- 
fectious diseases. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


137 


Cause  of  Highway  Accidents 

Thus  writes  Dr.  Haven  Emerson,  a  world-recognized  authority 
on  the  effects  of  alcohol  on  the  human  body.  Scientific  observations 
and  experiments  absolutely  prove  that  alcohol  in  amounts  as  small 
as  only  "a  drink  or  two"  causes  a  slowing  of  the  reflexes  of  the 
body  sufficient  to  result  in  many  highway  accidents.  But  the  driver 
usually  believes  that  this  small  amount  makes  him  more  alert— a 
safer  driver  after  the  drink  than  before.  But  this  is  not  the  case,  as 
every  traffic  officer  knows.  Alcohol  is  a  deceiver;  it  lies  to  the  driver. 
Instead  of  making  him  more  alert,  it  really  makes  him  less  alert  and 
less  safe  in  his  driving.  According  to  the  estimates  of  the  National 
Safety  Council,  and  others  qualified  to  give  estimates,  from  twenty- 
five  to  forty  percent  of  all  highway  accidents  are  due  to  drinking 
drivers — the  majority  of  them  having  had,  so  they  say,  only  "a  drink 
or  two."  Such  a  driver  is  far  more  dangerous  than  the  one  who 
knows  he  is  drunk. 

This  matter  of  traffic  accidents  in  the  United  States  is  very 
important.  It  is  said  that  they  resulted  last  year  in  thirty-six  thousand 
fatalities — more  fatalities  than  we  suffered  during  the  same  period  in 
the  Korean  war. 

Social  and  Spiritual  Effects 

So  far  I  have  spoken  only  of  the  effects  of  alcohol  on  the  body 
of  the  drinker,  but  there  are  social  and  spiritual  effects  of  far  greater 
importance  that  result  from  his  drinking. 

It  is  perhaps  not  so  important  what  the  drinker  does  to  himself 
— great  as  this  is — as  to  what  he  does  to  others — how  his  drinking 
affects  others.  At  the  conference  of  the  American  Association  of 
Industrial  Physicians  and  Surgeons  last  April,  it  was  said  by  the 
medical  director  of  a  large  steel  company  that  hang-overs  cost  fac- 
tories one  billion  man-hours  every  year,  a  tremendous  loss  in  goods 
and  wages,  thus  affecting  many  more  people  than  the  drinkers. 

First  Presidency  Message 

In  a  session  of  the  October  conference  of  the  Church  in  1942, 
President  Clark  presented  a  timely  message  of  the  First  Presidency 
in  which  was  written  the  following: 

Over  the  earth,  and  it  seems  particularly  in  America,  the  demon 
drink  is  in  control.  Drunken  with  strong  drink,  men  have  lost  their  rea- 
son; their  counsel  has  been  destroyed;  their  judgment  and  vision  are  fled; 
they  reel  forward  to  destruction. 

Drink  brings  cruelty  into  the  home;  it  walks  arm  and  arm  with 
poverty;  its  companions  are  disease  and  plague;  it  puts  chastity  to  flight; 
it  knows  neither  honor  nor  fair  dealing;  it  is  a  total  stranger  to  truth; 
it  drowns  conscience;  it  is  the  bodyguard  of  evil;  it  curses  all  who  touch 
it. 

Drink  has  brought  more  woe  and  misery,  broken  more  hearts,  wrecked 
more  homes,  committed  more  crimes,  filled  more  coffins,  than  all  the  wars 
the  world  has  suffered. 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Day 

In  the  light  of  these  factual  statements,  forcibly  and  eloquently 
put  by  President  Clark,  how  is  it  that  any  sane  member  of  the  Church 
believing  in  the  divine  call  of  Joseph  Smith,  would  dare  to  indulge 
in  drink?  Does  he  not  know  the  sin  and  the  danger  of  indulgence? 
This  action  not  only  harms  him  in  person,  thus  defiling  his  body,  but 
it  makes  him  a  danger  to  his  family,  to  his  associates,  to  society,  and 
an  offender  of  God. 

Danger  of  Moderate  Drinking 

But  there  are  many  people  who  protest  that  drinking  in  modera- 
tion is  not  harmful.  Have  I  not  pointed  out  that  the  most  dangerous 
potential  killer  on  the  highway  is  the  driver  who  has  taken  only  "a 
drink  or  two"?  Is  it  not  through  example  that  we  yield  our  most 
potent  influence?  Drinking  a  single  glass  is  likely  far  more  strongly 
to  influence  others  to  drink  than  would  drinking  a  jug.  Yes,  the 
example  of  participation  in  a  cocktail  party,  of  drinking  in  a  con- 
vivial set,  of  taking  a  glass  with  a  friend — any  of  these  is  likely  to  be 
taken  as  a  license  by  the  unwary  to  indulge. 

There  is  a  grave  danger  in  alcohol  of  which  the  novice  may  not 
be  aware — the  danger  of  becoming  an  alcoholic — of  becoming  one 
who  drinks  to  excess,  unable  to  control  his  drinking.  Mrs.  Marty 
Mann,  a  recovered  alcoholic,  executive  director,  National  Commit- 
tee for  Education  on  Alcoholism,  said  a  few  years  ago  in  a  national 
radio  broadcast  that  the  years  of  her  acute  chronic  alcoholism  were 
the  most  painful  years  of  her  life.  "I  suffered  constantly,"  she  said, 
"not  just  one  kind  of  pain,  but  all  kinds  of  pain.  I  suffered  physically, 
mentally,  emotionally,  financially,  and  socially — in  every  depart- 
ment of  my  life.  I  tell  you,  honestly,  and  on  behalf  of  those  three 
million  human  beings  ( alcoholics )  that  alcoholism  is  the  most  painful 
disease  known  to  man." 

A  careful  study  shows  that  about  one  of  every  sixteen  persons 
who  takes  his  first  glass  becomes  an  alcoholic.  But  whether  this  will 
be  his  fate  cannot  be  determined  in  advance,  strange  as  it  may  seem. 
Hence,  safety  demands  a  refusal  to  take  the  first  drink. 

But  it  is  not  always  easy  to  say,  "I  do  not  drink."  Natural 
curiosity  to  learn  how  the  stuff  tastes,  the  invitation  of  agreeable 
companions,  the  fear  of  being  regarded  as  a  sissy  or  of  leaning  over 
backwards,  or  of  throwing  a  damper  on  a  jolly  group,  memory  of 
attractive  advertisements  seen  or  read — one  or  more  of  these  and 
other  temptations  must  be  waved  aside  by  a  refusal.  But  the  fact 
that  it  is  "smarter  not  to  drink"  is  a  truth  that  will  give  the  necessary 
courage  to  everyone  who  is  accustomed  to  pray  and  to  respect  him- 
self. The  Dord  helps  him  who  worthily  tries  to  help  himself. 

The  Problem  of  Drink 

The  problem  of  drink  looked  at  in  the  light  of  national  interests 
is  one  of  the  most  difficult  and  dangerous  this  country  faces.  The 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


139 


custom  of  drinking  prevails  in  all  strata  of  American  Society,  among 
the  rich  and  the  poor,  the  old  and  the  young,  the  educated  and  the 
ignorant,  the  strong  and  the  weak,  the  official  and  the  military.  Drink 
is  responsible,  in  part  at  least,  for  many  of  our  existing  difficulties. 
The  per  capita  consumption  in  the  District  of  Columbia  is  much 
the  highest  in  the  country — 5.37  gallons  in  1950,  compared  with  1.24 
gallons  for  the  whole  United  States,  more  than  four  times  greater  in 
Washington  than  the  average.  The  consumption  in  Utah  was  0.74 
gallons,  fourteen  percent  of  that  in  Washington. 

Does  this  great  consumption  in  Washington  have  any  signfi- 
cance?  It  was  reported  that  at  the  conferences  with  Stalin  at  Tehe- 
ran and  Yalta  during  the  war  an  abundance  of  liquor  was  in  evi- 
dence. Did  the  presence  of  liquor  have  any  influence  on  the  harmful 
agreements  (harmful  to  us)  that  were  reached? 

Crime  in  its  many  varieties  is  current  in  the  United  States,  and 
the  records  show  that  nearly  all  criminals  use  liquor  and  tobacco. 
And  as  you  know,  many  crimes  are  committed  because  the  perpe- 
trator is  under  the  influence  of  liquor.  As  you  also  know,  many 
destructive  fires,  causing  loss  of  many  lives  and  enormous  losses  of 
property,  are  due  to  the  carelessness  of  smokers. 

Evils  of  Indulgence 

Indulgence  in  alcoholic  beverages  and  tobacco  is  not  only  injuri- 
ous to  body,  mind,  and  spirit — therefore  hurtful  to  the  consumer  and 
greatly  so  to  society — but  it  is  very  expensive,  estimated  to  be  about 
fifteen  billion  dollars  annually  in  the  United  States — more  than  is 
spent  for  education,  libraries,  and  charity.  The  picture  is  dismal  in- 
deed. Why  is  it,  how  is  it,  that  intelligent,  sensible  human  beings 
will  persist  in  consuming  liquor  and  tobacco  in  the  light  of  the  many, 
some  dreadful,  evils  resulting  from  this  consumption?  Can  it  be  that 
they  are  not  well-informed  of  these  effects?  This  is  probably  true 
in  many  cases,  especially  with  the  youth.  Hence  education  is  one 
of  the  means  that  should  be  employed  intensively  among  all  ill- 
informed  persons.  So  many  and  great  are  the  evils  of  indulgence 
that  all  feasible  means  should  be  employed  to  eliminate  them.  Cer- 
tainly all  schools  should  participate  in  this  movement. 

But  as  this  movement  is  intensified,  so  will  counter  movements 
be,  we  may  be  assured;  "conspiring  men"  will  intensify  their  "evils 
and  designs."  Satan,  the  devil,  is  not  asleep. 

But  Latter-day  Saints — members  of  this  Church — believing  and 
knowing  that  God  has  spoken  in  modern  times  on  the  subject  of 
liquor  and  tobacco,  will  you  not  be  aroused,  become  converted  and 
abstain  from  indulgence  in  the  use  of  these  things?  Nothing  less 
is  expected  of  you  by  the  Church  and  by  non-members  who  know 
our  teachings  relative  to  them.  Be  wise,  not  foolish. 

May  the  Lord  help  all  of  us  to  be  sincerely  obedient  to  his  will, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Dag 

ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  humbly  ask  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  to  rest  upon  me  on  this 
occasion. 

Preaching  of  Gospel 

Shortly  before  the  ascension  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord  and 
Master,  he  gave  his  Apostles  their  final  commission,  saying  unto 
them: 

.  .  .  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 
He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  be- 
lieveth  not  shall  be  damned.  (Mark  16:15-16.) 

After  the  ascension  of  the  Lord,  the  Apostles  went  forth  humbly, 
faithfully,  diligently,  from  town  to  town,  from  village  to  village,  from 
city  to  city,  declaring  the  good  message  which  the  Lord  had  given 
them;  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  establishing  Christian 
communities.  Gradually,  one  Christian  community  after  another  arose 
in  the  Mediterranean  world.  The  gospel  spread  from  land  to  land. 

But  also  as  time  passed,  the  Apostles  received  very  severe  per- 
secutions, which  resulted  in  the  death — the  martyrdom — of  all  of 
them  except  John  the  Beloved.  They  sealed  their  testimonies  with 
their  blood,  dying  for  the  eternal  truths  which  they  had  embraced. 

False  Teachings 

As  time  went  on,  and  as  Paul  the  Apostle  and  others  of  the 
great  prophets  had  predicted,  heresies  crept  into  the  Christian 
Church.  False  teachings  and  false  doctrines  came  into  Christianity. 
Especially  is  this  true  toward  the  end  of  the  fourth  century  A.  D. 
At  that  time  the  Roman  government  made  the  Christian  Church  the 
state  religion  and  outlawed  all  pagan  religions.  This  resulted  in 
thousands  and  thousands  of  pagans  flocking  into  the  Christian 
Church,  naturally  without  being  converted.  They  brought  with  them 
their  choice  pagan  ideas,  practices,  religious  rituals  and  doctrines, 
bringing  about  an  adulteration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which 
resulted  in  what  is  known  as  the  Great  Apostasy. 

If  the  Savior  had  come  back  to  earth  at  the  beginning  of  the 
fifth  century  A.D.,  I  doubt  whether  he  would  have  recognized  the 
Christian  Church  as  the  one  that  claimed  descent  from  that  which 
he  had  established,  so  far  had  it  gone  astray.  Christianity  had  ac- 
tually become  a  composite  of  Christian  beliefs,  practices,  and  doc- 
trines; Jewish  teachings  and  rituals;  Greek,  Roman,  and  Egyptian, 
pagan  philosophies;  and  pagan  religions  of  various  brands.  The  Holy 
Priesthood  had  been  withdrawn  from  the  earth.  The  power  of  godli- 
ness was  no  longer  present  in  the  Christian  Church.  Thus  there  was 
a  complete  falling  away  from  the  gospel  which  had  been  estab- 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER  HI 

lished  by  the  Son  of  Man.  The  Church  lay  in  darkness,  and  the 
darkness  enveloped  the  earth.  This  spiritual  darkness  continued 
for  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  years. 

Gospel  Restored 

Finally,  during  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth  century,  Jesus 
Christ,  the  God  of  heaven  and  earth,  stretched  forth  his  hand  again 
to  reveal  once  more  the  gospel  plan  of  salvation  to  the  human  family 
and  to  establish  his  Church  upon  earth.  This  great  and  marvelous 
work  came  about  in  fulfilment  of  the  prophecies  made  by  many  of 
the  ancient  prophets.  They  had  predicted  that  there  would  be  a 
restoration  of  all  things  in  the  latter  days  and  that  all  the  rights, 
rituals,  doctrines,  powers,  priesthoods,  and  ordinances  necessary  for 
the  salvation  and  exaltation  of  the  human  family  would  be  restored. 
(See  Acts  3:21.) 

From  heavenly  beings  this  gospel  was  restored  to  the  Prophet 
oseph  Smith,  and  the  promise  given  by  the  Lord  that  it  would  never 
>e  taken  from  the  earth  again  nor  given  to  another  people.  (See 
3.  &  C.  27:13.)  As  part  of  that  restoration,  the  Holy  Melchizedek 
-"riesthood  was  brought  back  to  earth  again.  The  Savior,  as  he  had 
done  in  the  Meridian  of  Time,  established  offices  in  that  priesthood. 
In  this  dispensation  they  consisted  of  a  First  Presidency,  Twelve 
Apostles,  seventies,  elders,  and  others  to  carry  forward  the  work  of 
the  Lord. 

Commandment  in  Present  Day 

The  commandment  from  Jesus  Christ,  our  Savior,  came  to  the 
Twelve  in  modern  times,  just  as  it  did  to  the  Apostles  in  his  day: 

Therefore,  go  ye  into  all  the  world;  and  whatsoever  place  ye  can- 
not go  unto  ye  shall  send,  that  the  testimony  may  go  from  you  into  all 
the  world  unto  every  creature. 

And  as  I  said  unto  mine  apostles,  even  so  I  say  unto  you,  for  you 
are  mine  apostles,  even  God's  high  priests;  ye  are  they  whom  my  Father 
hath  given  me;  ye  are  my  friends; 

Therefore,  as  I  said  unto  mine  apostles  I  say  unto  you  again,  that 
every  soul  who  believeth  on  your  words,  and  is  baptized  by  water  for 
the  remission  of  sins,  shall  receive  the  Holy  Ghost.  .  .  . 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  they  who  believe  not  on  your  words, 
and  are  not  baptized  in  water  in  my  name,  for  the  remission  of  their  sins, 
that  they  may  receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  shall  be  damned,  and  shall  not 
come  into  my  Father's  kingdom  where  my  Father  and  I  am. 

And  this  revelation  unto  you,  and  commandment,  is  in  force  from 
this  very  hour  upon  all  the  world,  and  the  gospel  is  unto  all  who  have 
not  received  it.  (Ibid.,  84:62-64,  74-75.) 

Assignment  to  the  Twelve 

Acting  in  accordance  with  this  revelation  and  also  several  others, 
such  as  the  one  which  appointed  the  Twelve  Apostles  to  hold  the 
keys  of  opening  the  doors  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  every 
nation  throughout  the  earth;  the  revelation  to  the  effect  that  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


gospel  should  be  taken  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  people, 
preparatory  to  the  coming  of  the  Lord,  and  other  similar  pronounce- 
ments, the  Twelve  Apostles  did  go  forth  throughout  the  world.  Dur- 
ing the  past  one  hundred  and  twenty-one  years,  they  have  opened 
the  doors  of  the  gospel  to  most  of  the  nations. 

The  history  of  the  work  of  the  Twelve  in  carrying  forward  their 
missionary  assignment  presents  a  marvelous  story.  In  addition  to 
the  great  work  that  they  have  done,  the  Apostles  also  have  sent 
many  other  gospel  messengers  to  the  places  where  they  could  not  go. 


Now,  the  Lord,  in  establishing  the  gospel  on  the  earth  in  the 
latter  days,  did  not  give  revelations  entirely  to  the  effect  that  the 
Twelve  were  to  be  the  only  ministers  of  the  restored  truths.  He  also 
gave  revelations  to  the  seventy,  designating  them  as  "especial  wit- 
nesses" of  Christ,  and  calling  them  to  be  ministers  of  the  restored 
gospel.  "...  first  unto  the  Gentiles  and  then  to  the  Jews."  (Ibid., 
107:25-26,  34,  38,  93-97.)  And  again,  he  also  gave  a  revelation  to 
every  faithful  elder  in  the  Church,  commanding  him  to  proclaim  the 
message  of  salvation.  He  said  unto  the  elders: 

Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature,  acting 
in  the  authority  which  I  have  given  you,  baptizing  in  the  name  of  the 
Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

And  he  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved,  and  he  that 
believeth  not  shall  be  damned.  (Ibid.,  68:8-9.) 

During  the  past  hundred  years,  thousands  upon  thousands  of 
elders  have  gone  forth  in  harmony  with  this  divine  command.  I  be- 
lieve there  is  no  time  in  the  history  of  the  human  family  where  a 
Church  has  put  forth  a  greater  missionary  effort  in  accordance  with 
the  command  of  God  than  has  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  during  the  past  one  hundred  and  twenty-one  years. 

The  Lord  not  only  commanded  the  elders  to  go  forth  and  preach 
the  gospel,  but  he  also  gave  a  command  in  a  revelation  to  Joseph 
Smith  to  the  effect  that  every  person  who  is  baptized  into  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  morally  obligated  in  the  sight 
of  God  to  do  missionary  work.  In  other  words,  he  is  to  proclaim  the 
words  of  eternal  life  to  the  honest  in  heart.  In  fact,  the  commandment 
of  the  Lord  to  every  baptized  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  as  follows:  "...  and  it  becometh  every  man  who  hath  been 
warned  to  warn  his  neighbor."  (Ibid.,  88:81.) 

If  every  Latter-day  Saint  would  take  that  revelation  seriously, 
thousands  and  thousands  of  the  honest  in  heart  who  live  among  us 
would  gladly  receive  the  words  of  eternal  life  and  affiliate  themselves 
with  the  true  Church  and  kingdom  of  God. 


Others  Called 


Living  of  Gospel 


If  all  Latter-day  Saints  would  live  the  gospel  in  every  detail,  as 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


143 


it  has  been  revealed  from  the  mouth  of  Jehovah  through  the  prophets, 
our  lights  would  so  shine  to  the  world  that  multitudes  of  good  people 
would  actually  ask  to  join  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  Our  neighbors 
would  see  the  light  shining  forth  from  Latter-day  Saints,  because  the 
gospel  had  made  them  live  such  good  lives,  and  they  would  readily 
accept  this  Church  as  being  "the  only  true  and  living  Church  upon 
the  face  of  the  whole  earth."  (Ibid.,  1:30.)  Certainly  the  gospel 
would  then  roll  forth  throughout  the  world,  as  Daniel  predicted  it 
would,  like  a  great  "stone  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands." 
(See  Daniel  2:27-49.)  It  would  roll  forth  until  it  "filled  the  whole 
earth." 

One  of  the  obstacles  we  meet  in  our  efforts  to  spread  the  gospel 
message  is  the  fact  that  so  many  Latter-day  Saints  do  not  live  the 
gospel.  And,  on  the  other  hand,  many  members  of  the  Church  do 
not  take  the  time  to  tell  their  neighbors  about  the  gospel.  They  do 
not  invite  their  neighbors  to  attend  Church  with  them  nor  to  come 
in  contact  with  Church  influence  in  other  ways.  I  sincerely  believe 
that  there  are  many  honest  in  heart  who  would  like  to  investigate 
the  gospel  truths  and  later  on  probably  join  the  Church  if  they  were 
invited  to  participate  and  were  encouraged  to  do  so.  God  will  hold 
us  accountable  to  do  our  share  along  this  line.  We  must  warn  our 
neighbors. 

Missionary  Assignment 

When  the  Lord  established  the  gospel  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  he  gave  the  members  of  the  Church  many  great  as- 
signments. I  believe  that  there  is  no  assignment  that  the  Lord  gave 
to  the  Church  greater  than  that  of  missionary  work. 

If  one  should  read  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  through  and 
tabulate  the  various  subjects  that  the  Lord  revealed  information  on, 
he  would  find  that  missionary  work  holds  a  dominant  place.  In  my 
study  of  modern  revelation,  I  have  found  that  there  is  no  subject 
that  the  Lord  revealed  more  about,  that  he  talked  on  more  times  and 
in  more  ways  than  the  missionary  assignment.  In  fact,  the  gospel 
of  the  kingdom  must  be  taken  unto  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and 
tongue,  and  people  preparatory  to  the  coming  of  the  Lord;  and  after 
this  great  assignment  has  been  successfully  completed,  according  to 
the  words  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord  and  Savior,  "...  then  shall  the 
end  come."  (D.  &  C,  133:37;  Matthew  24:14.) 

Not  only  must  the  gospel  be  taken  "to  every  nation,  and  kindred, 
and  tongue,  and  people"  here  in  mortality,  but  it  must  also  be 
preached  to  all  of  our  departed  ancestors  in  the  spirit  world.  A  great 
missionary  campaign  must  go  forward  until  all  who  have  died  without 
the  law  of  the  gospel  will  have  the  opportunity  to  accept  or  reject  it. 
Temple  work  will  not  be  completely  effective  without  missionary 
work.  In  fact,  the  people  in  the  spirit  world  have  to  learn  the  various 
gospel  truths,  receive  the  gospel  plan  of  salvation,  repent  of  their 
sins,  and  prepare  themselves  to  receive  the  temple  ordinances  which 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


have  been  performed  for  them  vicariously  before  that  great  work 
reaches  a  fulfilment  and  gives  to  the  people  the  blessings  that  they 
should  receive. 

Therefore,  it  is  very  evident  that  missionary  work  is  one  of  the 
greatest  assignments  which  God  has  placed  upon  the  Church.  In 
fact,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  on  one  occasion  said,  "After  all  that 
has  been  said,  the  greatest  and  most  important  duty  is  to  preach  the 
gospel  [of  Jesus  Christ]."  (Joseph  Fielding  Smith's  Teachings  o[ 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  p.  113.) 


When  the  gospel  was  being  restored  to  earth  during  the  early 
part  of  the  nineteenth  century,  a  number  of  brethren  came  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  asked  what  the  Lord  would  have  them 
do  in  this  great  work.  Their  concern  was  to  learn  what  would  be 
the  most  important  thing  for  them  to  do.  The  word  of  the  Lord 
came  to  the  Whitmer  men  as  follows: 

And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  the  thing  which  will  be  of  the 
most  worth  unto  you  will  be  to  declare  repentance  unto  this  people, 
that  you  may  bring  souls  unto  me,  that  you  may  rest  with  them  in  the 
kingdom  of  my  Father.  (D.  6  C.  15:6;  16:6.) 

I  believe  that  that  revelation  applies  as  aptly  to  you  and  me  as 
it  did  to  John  and  Peter  Whitmer,  Jr.  I  know  of  no  way  whereby 
we  can  help  to  bring  salvation  to  our  own  souls  better  than  by  doing 
all  that  we  can  to  bring  salvation  to  the  souls  of  others.  In  other 
words;  we  save  our  own  souls  in  proportion  to  the  service  we  render 
to  the  honest  in  heart  who  are  seeking  after  truth  by  giving  to  them 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  or  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation. 

There  are  many  other  revelations  that  could  be  cited  which 
indicate  the  importance  of  the  missionary  assignment,  but  we  haven't 
time  on  this  occasion  to  quote  them. 


As  a  member  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  the  duty  rests 
upon  me  and  others  of  the  Council  to  help  carry  the  message  of 
salvation  to  the  honest  in  heart  and  to  do  our  utmost  in  promoting 
missionary  work.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity,  therefore,  to 
encourage  all  the  seventies  throughout  the  Church  to  engage  in  mis- 
sionary work  that  they  might  magnify  their  callings  as  seventies. 
If  we  fail  to  do  this,  we  may  stand  under  condemnation  at  the  judg- 
ment day  for  not  having  magnified  our  priesthood. 

The  First  Presidency  has  asked  for  three  seventies  from  each 
quorum — a  thousand  seventies — to  go  into  the  mission  fields  this 
fall.  I  should  like  to  encourage  the  stake  presidents,  the  bishops,  the 
seventies,  and  all  who  are  concerned,  to  cooperate  on  this  great 
assignment  and  to  respond  to  the  call  of  the  First  Presidency. 


The  Thing  of  Most  Worth 


Encouragement  to  Seventies 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


145 


The  call  from  the  First  Presidency  is  a  call  from  the  Lord, 
because  these  men  are  the  duly  authorized  servants  of  God  here  upon 
the  earth.  They  hold  the  keys  of  the  kingdom;  and  God  the  Eternal 
Father  and  his  Only  Begotten  Son  accept  all  that  they  do  in  the 
office  of  their  calling  as  if  these  acts  had  been  performed  personally 
by  Jesus  Christ. 

Stake  Missionary  Program 

Also,  I  would  like  to  encourage  all  of  us  as  Church  members 
to  take  greater  advantage  of  the  stake  missionary  program.  I  am 
sure  we  have  done  a  good  job  in  the  past,  but  I  feel  confident  that 
we  have  hardly  scratched  the  surface.  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  there 
are  thousands  and  thousands  of  seekers  after  truth  who  live  among 
us  who  would  receive  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  if  they  had  a  fair 
chance.  If  we  would  spend  more  time  in  doing  missionary  work, 
great  would  be  our  joy  in  this  life,  and  eternal  should  be  our  reward 
in  the  world  to  come.  The  Savior  made  this  point  clear  and  definite 
wherein  he  said: 

Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God;  .  .  . 

Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 

And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  re- 
pentance unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how 
great  shall  be  your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father! 

And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have 
brought  unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be  your 
joy  if  you  should  bring  many  souls  unto  me!  {Ibid.,  18:10,  14-16.) 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  do  humbly  trust  and  pray  that 
God  will  bless  us  to  the  extent  that  we  will  not  only  continue  with 
the  great  missionary  spirit  that  we  have  shown  in  the  past,  but  that 
we  shall  also  catch  a  fulness  of  the  spirit  and  greatness  of  this  as- 
signment and  vigorously  carry  it  forward  until  we  do  prepare  the 
world  for  the  coming  of  the  Savior,  that  he  may  reign  as  Lord  of 
lords  and  King  of  kings. 

Testimony 

I  bear  testimony  that  this  is  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I 
know  this  fact  as  I  know  that  I  am  alive.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
is  a  prophet  of  God  and  one  of  the  greatest  prophets  that  has  ever 
lived  on  this  earth.  I  know  also  that  if  you  and  I  will  live  according 
to  the  teachings  of  the  commandments  that  we  have  received  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  someday  we  shall  come  back  into  the  presence 
of  God  and  receive  exaltation,  which  he  has  declared  to  be  the 
greatest  gift  that  he  has  in  store  for  those  who  love  him  and  keep 
his  commandments. 

May  God  bless  us  in  carrying  forward  this  great  missionary 
assignment  and  in  all  of  our  walks  of  life,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,   October  7  Third  Day 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

0[  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

Two  great  truths  must  be  accepted  by  mankind  if  they  shall  save 
themselves:  first,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Messiah,  the  Only  Begotten, 
the  very  Son  of  God,  whose  atoning  blood  and  resurrection  save  us  from 
the  physical  and  spiritual  death  brought  to  us  by  the  Fall;  and  next,  that 
God  has  restored  to  the  earth,  in  these  last  days,  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  his  Holy  Priesthood  with  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel,  for 
the  salvation  of  all  men  on  the  earth.  Without  these  truths  man  may 
not  hope  for  the  riches  of  the  life  hereafter.  (See  The  Improvement  Era, 
vol.  38,  pp.  204-205.) 

Those  words  were  given  by  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church 
in  a  testimony  to  the  world  on  the  occasion  of  the  one  hundredth 
anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  in  this  dispensation,  and  if  the  Spirit  will  give  me  utterance, 
I  would  like  to  say  a  few  things  with  reference  to  them. 

Salvation  Centered  in  Christ 

We  are  the  people  of  God.  We  are  the  members  of  the  king- 
dom of  God  on  earth,  which  is  this  Church,  and  we  have  the  knowl- 
edge and  light  and  revelation  which  causes  us  to  know  that  salvation 
is  centered  in  Christ.  We  believe  in  Christ.  We  are  the  Church  of 
Christ.  We  believe  that  through  his  atoning  blood  and  the  sacrifice 
which  he  worked  out,  all  men  will  be  raised  in  immortality,  that  is 
to  say,  the  body  and  the  spirit  will  be  reunited,  a  resurrection  will  be 
brought  to  pass;  and  we  believe  that  those  who  obey  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  will  gain,  in  addition  to  immortality,  the 
glorious  gift  of  eternal  life. 

We  have  the  witness  and  knowledge  that  Christ  was  the  First- 
born of  the  Father,  that  in  the  spirit  world,  in  the  pre-existent  eter- 
nities, he  obeyed  the  laws  of  the  Father  and  by  diligence  and  right- 
eousness ascended  even  there  to  the  status  of  a  God. 

We  recognize  him  as  the  Creator,  under  the  Father,  of  the  world 
and  all  that  in  it  is.  We  worship  him  as  the  God  who  revealed  his 
saving  truths  to  all  the  ancient  prophets,  those  mighty  leaders  who 
have  come  in  every  age  when  he  has  had  a  people  on  the  earth. 

We  believe  that  he  came  into  the  world,  born  of  Mary,  literally 
and  actually,  as  we  are  born  of  our  mothers;  that  he  came  into  the 
world,  born  of  God  the  Eternal  Father,  the  Almighty  Elohim,  literally 
and  actually,  as  we  are  born  of  our  earthly  fathers. 

We  believe  that  he  had  the  power  to  lay  down  his  life,  and  the 
power  to  take  it  up  again,  because  Mary  was  his  mother  and  God 
was  his  father. 

We  certify  of  Christ;  we  preach  of  Christ;  and  we  have  the 
knowledge  that  salvation  is  in  and  through  him  and  him  alone. 
"Salvation  was,  and  is,  and  is  to  come,  in  and  through  the  atoning 
blood  of  Christ,  the  Lord  Omnipotent"  (see  Mosiah  3:18),  and 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE  147 


"how  great  the  importance,"  as  Lehi  expressed  it,  "to  make  these 
things  known  unto  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth."  (See  II  Nephi  2:8.) 

Acceptance  of  Prophets 

Now  it  is  not  possible,  in  my  judgment,  for  people  in  the  world 
to  accept  Christ  and  come  to  salvation,  unless  at  one  and  the  same 
time  they  accept  the  prophets  whom  Christ  has  sent  and  receive 
the  administration  of  holy  ordinances  under  their  hands. 

Christ  and  his  prophets  are  one.  We  could  not  believe  in 
Christ  if  there  were  not  prophets  to  declare  Christ  and  his .  saving 
truths  unto  us.  The  Apostle  Paul  reasoned  on  this  subject,  and 
he  said: 

.  .  .  how  shall  they  believe  in  him  of  whom  they  have  not  heard? 
and  how  shall  they  hear  without  a  preacher? 

And  how  shall  they  preach,  except  they  be  sent?  (Romans  10:14-15.) 

Except  for  Christ,  there  would  be  no  salvation.  Except  for  the 
prophets  of  God,  sent  in  the  various  ages  of  the  earth's  history,  the 
testimony  of  Christ  would  not  be  borne,  the  message  of  salvation 
would  not  be  taught,  and  there  would  be  no  legal  administrators  who 
could  perform  the  ordinances  of  salvation  for  men,  that  is,  perform 
them  so  they  will  be  binding  on  earth  and  sealed  eternally  in  the 
heavens. 

So  it  is  that  the  Lord  has  sent  prophets.  No  one  would  suppose 
that  he  could  believe  in  Christ  and  reject  Peter,  James,  and  John. 
The  Lord  and  his  prophets  go  hand  in  hand.  Christ  said,  "I  am  the 
true  vine,  and  my  Father  is  the  husbandman";  then  he  said  to  his 
Apostles,  "Ye  are  the  branches."  (John  15:1,  5.)  The  branches 
and  the  vine  are  connected.  He  taught  also  that  if  the  branches 
were  torn  away  from  him,  they  would  wither  and  die  and  be  cast 
into  the  fire.  If  people  in  the  world  would  pick  the  fruit  of  eternal 
life  off  the  branches,  they  have  to  accept  the  prophets,  for  the 
branches  are  the  prophets. 

Gospel  Dispensations 

This  has  been  the  system  that  the  Lord  has  had  from  the  days 
of  Father  Adam  to  the  present  moment,  and  it  will  continue  eternally. 
The  Lord  sent  Adam  in  the  beginning  to  teach  the  principles  of 
salvation.  Adam  had  a  dispensation  of  the  gospel,  that  is,  the  Lord 
revealed  direct  from  heaven  to  Adam,  dispensed  to  him,  the  saving 
truths;  and  anybody  that  lived  in  the  days  of  Adam,  to  be  saved 
in  the  celestial  kingdom,  had  to  accept  Jesus  Christ  in  whom  salva- 
tion lay,  and  also  had  to  accept  Adam  as  the  revealer,  the  prophet, 
the  legal  administrator  who  taught  the  laws  of  salvation  and  ad- 
ministered the  ordinances  thereof.  It  went  in  just  that  manner  in 
every  succeeding  dispensation. 

In  the  days  of  Enoch,  if  a  man  would  be  saved  in  the  celestial 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Day 

kingdom,  he  accepted  Christ  as  the  Savior  of  the  world  and  Enoch 
as  his  prophet.  And  so  in  the  days  of  Abraham,  of  Moses,  of  Peter, 
James,  and  John,  and  of  this  day. 

I  suppose  that  the  Church  procedure  was  not  too  different  in 
former  days.  They  had  testimony  meetings  then,  and  when  people 
stood  up  in  them,  as  they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
they  bore  witness  that  Jesus  Christ  was  the  Son  of  God  who  would 
come,  and  that  Adam  was  his  prophet,  or  Enoch,  or  the  head  of 
whatever  dispensation  was  involved;  and  that  is  the  way  it  is  today. 
We  certify  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  we  certify  of  Joseph  Smith,  and 
they  are  one.  They  are  united  perfectly. 

For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants  receiveth  me; 
And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth  my  Father; 

And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father  receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom; 
therefore  all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him.  (D.  6  C.  84:36- 
38.) 

Vision  of  Abraham 

Now  may  I  mention  the  great  vision  that  the  Patriarch  Abraham 
had?  You  recall  that  the  Lord  showed  him  the  pre-existent  hosts 
and,  more  particularly,  the  noble  and  great  in  that  world.  Abraham 
saw  them,  the  intelligences,  the  spirit  sons  of  God  our  Father,  the 
noble  and  great  spirit  who  were  among  them,  and  the  Lord  said  to 
him,  ".  .  .  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them;  thou  wast  chosen  before 
thou  wast  born."  (See  Abraham  3:23.) 

As  with  Abraham,  so  with  all  the  prophets  of  God.  Sometimes 
someone  may  wonder,  that  is,  someone  in  the  world,  how  is  it  that 
the  Father  and  the  Son  would  appear  to  a  fourteen-and-a-half- 
year-old  boy  in  the  spring  of  1820,  to  usher  in,  as  we  express  it, 
the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 

Joseph  Smith  sat  with  Father  Abraham  in  the  councils  of  eter- 
nity, and  Joseph  Smith  was  ordained  as  Abraham  was  ordained  to 
come  down  and  be  the  head  of  a  gospel  dispensation  here.  He  had 
ascended  by  virtue  of  obedience,  intelligence,  progression,  and  right- 
eousness to  a  high  state  of  spiritual  perfection  in  that  world.  When 
he  came  here,  he  brought  with  him  the  talents  and  abilities,  the  deep 
spirituality,  and  the  innate  righteousness  that  he  developed  back 
there  under  the  tutelage  of  God  the  Father. 

In  the  eternal  worlds,  the  Firstborn  spirit  offspring  of  the  Father 
was  Jehovah  who  is  Jesus  Christ.  He  was  pre-eminent.  Standing 
next  to  Christ  was  the  great  spirit,  Michael.  Christ  was  ordained  as 
a  lamb  slain  from  the  foundation  of  the  world,  chosen  to  come  here 
and  be  the  Redeemer.  Michael  was  prepared  and  chosen  and  sent 
here  as  Father  Adam,  the  first  man  of  all  men,  the  first  flesh  upon  the 
earth,  the  head  of  the  human  race,  and  the  presiding  high  priest, 
under  Christ,  over  all  the  earth. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE  149 


Place  of  Joseph  Smith 

The  spirit  men  who  were  associated  with  Christ  and  with  Adam 
in  the  pre-existent  eternities,  and  who  were  more  valiant  than  all 
their  fellows,  were  the  ones  chosen  to  head  the  various  dispensations 
of  the  gospel.  One  of  these  was  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  It 
doesn't  take  much  reflection  then,  it  seems  to  me,  for  us  to  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  one  of  the  dozen  greatest  spirits  that  God 
the  Eternal  Father  had  in  all  the  councils  of  eternity;  that  he  came 
so  as  to  be  here  at  the  appointed  time  and  at  the  express  hour  and 
at  the  very  moment  that  the  Lord  designed  to  open  this  dispensa- 
tion  He  was  here  to  take  his  part  in  that  event. 

I  do  not  think  that  the  Father  and  the  Son  would  have  ap- 
peared to  an  ordinary  fourteen-and-a-half-year-old  boy,  if  he  had 
gone  out  into  that  grove  of  trees  to  ask  the  Lord  which  of  all  the 
churches  was  right.  I  think  the  Lord  had  been  preparing  Joseph 
Smith  for  that  event  from  all  eternity;  that  Joseph  Smith  had  the 
spiritual  stature,  the  strength  for  righteousness  that  enabled  him  to 
endure  the  vision;  that  he  had  the  talent  and  ability  to  press  forward 
in  righteousness  in  the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth:  first,  to  establish 
it;  and  then,  somewhat,  to  perfect  its  organization  before  he  was 
taken  home,  before  he  sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood. 

In  my  judgment  Christ  and  his  prophets  are  one;  and  salva- 
tion in  this  day  is,  first,  through  Christ  and  his  atoning  sacrifice, 
and  it  is,  second,  through  accepting  the  atoning  sacrifice  and  the 
doctrines  of  Christ  as  they  have  been  revealed  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  as  they  are  taught  by  the  living  oracles  who  wear  the 
mantle  of  the  Prophet  and  stand  at  this  moment  at  the  head  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  on  earth. 

Personal  Experience 

May  I  just  tell  you  one  experience  that  I  had.  I  have  never 
told  this  to  any  person  before,  except  my  wife.  Six  months  ago  in 
the  Solemn  Assembly,  when  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church 
were  sustained,  as  I  sat  down  here  behind  one  of  these  lower  pul- 
pits, the  voice  of  the  Lord  came  into  my  mind  as  certainly,  I  am  sure, 
as  the  voice  of  the  Lord  came  into  the  mind  of  Enos,  and  the  very 
words  were  formed,  and  it  said: 

"These  are  they  whom  I  have  chosen  as  the  First  Presidency 
of  my  Church.   Follow  them" — those  few  words. 

I  have  had  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  from  my 
youth.  I  was  reared  in  a  family  where  love  was  the  motive  force, 
where  my  parents  taught  me  righteousness,  and  I  have  grown  up 
with  a  testimony.  But  that  witness  was  an  added  assurance.  It 
meant  to  me,  if  I  hadn't  known  before,  which  I  did  know  before, 
that  this  is  the  Lord's  Church;  that  his  hand  is  over  it;  that  he 
organized  it;  that  these  men  who  preside  are  called  of  him;  that 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Dag 

they  are  his  anointed;  that  if  we  will  follow  them  as  they  follow 
Christ,  we  will  have  eternal  life,  which  is  my  prayer  for  myself  and 
for  all  Israel.    In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing 
the  hymn,  "I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour." 

ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

It  has  been  a  refining  influence  to  attend  this  great  conference. 
I  cannot  recall  when  I  have  felt  more  at  peace  than  I  have  during 
these  sessions.  It  seems  to  me  that  from  the  very  beginning  with 
President  McKay's  opening  address,  followed  by  others  of  the 
brethren  including  Brother  Thomas  E.  McKay  who  spoke  so  beau- 
tifully and  tenderly,  everything  done  and  said  has  contributed  to 
a  peace  that  I  am  sure  we  all  feel,  and  we  all  felt  as  we  sang  that 
beautiful  hymn,  ["I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour."] 

Marion  G.  Romney 

I  was  very  grateful  in  the  selection  of  Brother  Marion  G. 
Romney  to  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve.  I  have  been  intimately 
associated  with  him  for  the  past  ten  years — I  had  not  known  him 
prior  to  our  being  called  to  be  Assistants — but  I  have  learned  to 
love  him  and  to  appreciate  him  for  his  sterling  worth,  for  his  in- 
tegrity; and  I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  without  any  fear 
of  contradiction,  that  I  know  of  no  man  who  has  ever  been  chosen 
to  fill  this  high  and  sacred  trust  who  is  better  prepared  and  more 
worthy  than  is  Marion  G.  Romney.  I  hope  he  will  not  feel  em- 
barrassed because  of  my  saying  this,  but  I  say  it  from  the  depths 
of  my  heart. 

I  love  these  men.  I  have  learned  to  love  the  Authorities  as  I 
have  never  loved  them  before.  I  was  reared  in  a  home  where  the 
Authorities  of  the  Church  were  always  held  up  to  us  as  servants 
of  the  Almighty,  men  who  were  trying  to  their  utmost  to  establish 
the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  in  the  earth,  men  who  were  un- 
selfish in  their  service.  In  our  home  it  was  regarded  almost  as  a 
sin  for  anyone  to  say  anything  unkind  of  those  whom  God  had 
chosen  to  direct  the  affairs  of  the  Church. 

I  have  been  grateful  for  that  heritage.  I  have  tried  to  implant 
that  in  the  hearts  of  my  children.  My  wife  was  reared  in  the  same 
atmosphere,  and  she  too  reflected  in  her  life  that  absolute  confidence 
and  deep  appreciation  of  those  whom  the  Lord  had  chosen. 

Lessons  from  Missionaries 
I  have  recently  had  the  experience  of  visiting  two  of  our  mis- 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG  151 


sions.  Two  very  striking  lessons  were  brought  home  to  me  as  we 
labored  with  these  missionaries,  as  we  heard  their  testimonies,  list- 
ened to  their  reports,  and  felt  of  their  spirits.  They  told  how  they 
were  proselyting,  how  they  would  go  into  the  homes  where  they 
were  invited  in — many  times  they  were  turned  down — and  how 
they  would  teach  the  people. 

First  the  missionaries  would  present  to  them  the  message  of 
the  restoration  and  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  This 
would  open  up  the  way  for  a  cottage  meeting,  and  then  they  would 
teach  the  families  how  to  pray.  They  would  teach  them  that  God 
hears  and  answers  prayers.  They  would  unfold  the  story  of  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel,  which  of  course  would  take  them  back  to 
the  teachings  of  our  Savior  and  the  promises  that  he  made  when  he 
instructed  his  disciples: 

Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name 
of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded 
you:  and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the  end  of  the  world. 
(Matthew  28:19-20.) 

The  elders  go  into  homes,  and  they  teach  the  investigators 
these  divine  concepts,  prayer,  faith  in  God,  confidence  in  his  work, 
to  observe  all  things  that  the  Lord  has  commanded,  to  render  obedi- 
ence to  those  divine  principles  by  which  we  may  enter  into  his  king- 
dom and  into  his  Church,  teaching  them  the  law  of  tithing,  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  all  of  these  things,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  these 
cardinal  concepts,  and  as  we  listened  to  the  missionaries  explain 
their  methods,  the  reaction  of  the  people  to  them,  I  felt  and  I  say 
to  you  that  people  now  are  responding  to  the  truth,  perhaps  more 
than  ever  in  the  history  of  the  Church.  As  we  listened  to  these  re- 
ports, I  thought,  can  we  do  less  here  at  home  than  follow  these 
divine  concepts?  Should  we  do  less  than  teach  in  our  homes  family 
prayers,  kneeling  down  and  supplicating  our  Heavenly  Father  with 
our  children  night  and  morning?  Should  we  do  less  than  teach 
our  children  to  observe  the  law  of  tithing,  the  law  of  the  fast? 

Can  we  do  less  than  teach  them  all  of  these  principles  that  we 
proclaim  to  the  people  of  the  world,  obedience  to  which  makes  them 
eligible  for  membership  in  the  Church? 

That  lesson  has  come  home  to  me.  Are  we  doing  at  home 
what  we  expect  our  missionaries  to  do  in  the  world,  and  are  we  our- 
selves hiding  our  lights,  setting  our  lights  under  a  bushel,  or  are  we 
letting  our  lights  so  shine,  that  others,  seeing  our  good  works,  may 
be  led  to  glorify  our  Heavenly  Father? 

Missionary  Sacrifices 

Another  lesson  that  impressed  me  was  this:  We  listened  to 
some  of  the  missionaries  tell  of  their  backgrounds.  One  young  boy 
told  of  coming  from  a  home  in  Idaho,  of  his  widowed  mother,  with 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Dag 

five  children,  the  mother  being  left  with  a  mortgaged  farm,  and 
the  bishop  came  and  asked  if  one  of  her  boys  could  go  on  a  mission. 

The  oldest  was  asked  to  go,  and  the  mother  said,  "Bishop,  he 
may  go."  That  young  man  told  of  the  struggles  of  his  mother  to 
make  ends  meet  and  to  help  him  in  the  performance  of  his  mission- 
ary labors,  and  he  bore  a  strong  testimony  of  the  goodness  of  the 
Lord,  not  only  to  him,  but  also  to  that  devoted  mother  who  was 
making  possible  that  mission. 

Another  one  was  by  a  young  girl,  and  I  never  heard  a  stronger 
testimony — it  was  of  another  widowed  mother.  She  comes  from  a 
stake  in  the  east.  The  mother,  going  out  and  taking  day  work, 
made  possible  that  girl's  service  in  the  mission  field. 

On  my  way  home  I  happened  to  stop  in  the  home  of  my 
daughter  in  Chicago,  and  she,  not  knowing  that  I  knew,  was  telling 
me  of  the  sacrifice  of  a  widow  in  her  ward  that  was  making  it  pos- 
sible for  her  daughter  to  labor  in  the  mission  field. 

"Why,"  she  said,  "Dad,  that  good  little  woman  takes  what- 
ever she  can  get  to  do  without  complaint." 

Present-day  Faith 

We  are  inclined  to  tell  about  our  forebears,  of  the  heritage  they 
have  left  for  us.  We  have  been  reading  in  the  Deseret  News 
serially  of  the  great  work  of  President  George  Albert  Smith's  grand- 
father. Elder  George  A.  Smith,  of  his  colonizing  in  southern  Utah, 
and  the  struggles  of  their  living  in  wagons,  of  babies  being  born  in 
those  wagons,  as  they  sought  to  establish  a  settlement  at  Parowan. 
All  of  these  we  read  and  are  deeply  touched  and  inspired.  These 
things  are  a  great  heritage  to  us  and  to  our  children,  but  I  say  to 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  have  today  just  as  much  faith 
in  Israel  as  we  ever  had,  and  if  we  could  hear  all  of  these  experi- 
ences that  are  a  part  of  the  lives  of  these  missionaries,  we  would 
hear  of  the  struggles,  and  many  times  the  heartaches,  that  make 
possible  these  young  men  and  women  going  into  the  mission  field 
and  giving  of  their  time  for  two  years  or  two  and  a  half  years  to 
preach  the  gospel  which  means  so  much  to  you  and  to  me  and  to 
the  world. 

Evidence  Builds  Testimonies 

Verily,  it  is  a  testimony  to  us  of  this  great  work.  Testimonies  do 
not  come  all  at  once.  They  are  accumulations  of  evidence,  and  these 
are  just  a  few.   They  are  the  simple  things. 

I  remember  on  one  occasion  of  President  Grant  being  in  our 
home  and  having  with  him  a  good  friend,  a  banker,  from  the  East 
as  his  guest.  President  Grant  had  given  him  the  story  of  Joseph 
Smith  to  read,  and  during  our  visit  Brother  Grant  had  had  Sister 
Young  sing,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 

As  Sister  Young  concluded,  that  gentleman  remarked,  "That  is 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


153 


an  epic!  That  is  one  of  the  finest  expressions  of  faith  that  I  have 
ever  heard  in  poetry."  Then  he  made  this  remark:  "President  Grant, 
I  have  read  'Joseph  Smith  Tells  His  Own  Story,'  and  I  say  to  you 
that  no  imposter  ever  wrote  it.  It  was  written  by  one  who  believed 
in  his  own  destiny." 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  is  the  beginning  of  a  testimony, 
and  if  that  man  would  follow  through,  from  just  those  two  little 
things,  God  would  finally,  through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
reveal  to  him  the  truth  of  all  things.  This  is  the  promise  that  is  made 
to  the  people  of  the  world — 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye 
would  ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things 
are  not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  hav- 
ing faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all 
things.  (Moroni  10:4-5.) 

That  is  the  way  testimonies  come.  Those  are  the  promises 
that  are  given  by  our  missionaries  to  the  world.  Can  we  do  less 
at  home  than  to  accept  those  promises,  to  accept  the  Lord  as  we 
ask  our  friends  in  the  world  to  accept  him? 

May  God  help  us  so  to  do,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  leave 
with  you  my  testimony.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  my  standing  in  this 
Church  and  for  its  great  privileges  and  blessings;  and  I  can  sing 
with  you  as  we  sang  a  few  minutes  ago,  "I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour," 
and  I  know  he  is  near  to  us  if  we  will  serve  him  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments.   God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

.     ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  something  comforting 
in  the  scriptures  regarding  "he  that  shall  endure  to  the  end."  (Matt. 
24:13.)  I  must  confess,  however,  that  this  to  me  has  been  one  of 
the  most  glorious  conferences  that  I  have  ever  attended  or  ever 
expect  to  attend.  I  stand  before  you  this  afternoon  in  fasting  and 
prayer,  with  a  heart  full  of  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  to  the  Lord 
for  the  opportunity  which  has  been  mine  to  attend  this  conference. 

Richness  of  Conference 

I  cannot  recall  another,  unless  it  was  the  conference  which  I 
attended  in  April  of  1947  after  spending  a  year  in  war-torn  Europe, 
that  has  impressed  me  so  deeply  as  this  conference  which  now 
draws  to  a  close.  And  as  a  father  in  Israel,  I  am  grateful  beyond 
my  power  of  expression  that  my  wife  and  my  family  of  six  children 
have  come  under  the  influence  of  the  spirit  of  this  conference  and 
the  counsel  which  has  been  given  by  the  brethren. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


As  we  left  the  Friday  morning  session,  my  good  wife  turned  to 
me  and  said,  "Of  all  the  conferences  I  have  attended  in  the  Church, 
I  have  never  felt  so  richly  the  spirit  as  I  did  this  morning  during 
President  McKay's  opening  address."  I  am  sure  she  but  echoed  the 
feeling  of  hundreds  of  others.  Truly,  it  has  been  a  time  of  rejoic- 
ing. I  would  to  God,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  every  man, 
woman,  and  child  in  the  world  could  have  heard  the  counsel  which 
has  come  to  us  during  this  conference  and  could  have  in  their 
hearts  a  desire  to  accept  that  counsel  because  I  have  never  seen 
greater  evidence  of  spiritual  statesmanship  than  that  represented  in 
the  counsel  given  to  us  by  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church.  With 
all  my  heart  I  sustain  them. 


I  am  grateful  today  that  as  a  young  man  in  far-off  England  I 
came  under  the  influence  of  the  leadership  of  President  David  O. 
McKay.  I  love  him  almost  as  I  love  my  own  father,  and  I  sustain 
him  with  all  my  heart  as  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator,  which  I  testify 
to  you  he  is.  And  I  love  with  him  his  counselors  as  men  of  God. 
I  love  all  these  brethren  with  whom  I  have  the  glorious  privilege 
of  associating. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  brethren  who  have  been  added  to  the 
General  Authorities  in  this  conference.  I  have  known  them  all  for 
a  number  of  years,  and  to  know  them  is  to  love  them.  I  have  re- 
ceived sufficient  witness  of  the  Spirit  to  satisfy  my  soul  that  the  in- 
spiration of  heaven  directed  the  presidency  in  the  selection  of  these 
our  brethren. 

I  am  happy  to  welcome  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  into  our 
Council.  He  knows  something  of  the  joy  and  happiness  that  awaits 
him  in  this  body  of  men,  and  their  close  association  with  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church.  I  first  met  Brother  Romney  thirty-three 
years  ago  on  a  basketball  floor  in  Rexburg.  We  were  representing 
two  Church  schools  in  a  friendly  but  vigorous  competition.  I  have 
always  felt  that  he  saw  very  clearly,  but  on  the  question  of  the  final 
score  in  that  game  he  has  never  been  fully  clear.  I  have  loved  him 
for  his  devotion,  for  his  integrity,  and  for  his  testimony,  and  I  love 
these  brethren  who  have  been  added  as  Assistants  to  the  Twelve. 


I  have  but  one  thought  to  add,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  have 
set  aside  two  or  three  times  that  which  I  had  in  mind  to  say,  as  it 
has  been  treated  much  better  than  I  could  have  treated  the  subject. 
I  would  like  to  bring  this  thought  to  your  attention  through  a  brief 
experience.  Some  months  ago  while  attending  a  meeting  of  agri- 
cultural and  farm  cooperative  leaders  in  an  eastern  city,  I  had  oc- 
casion to  leave  my  hotel  room  and  cross  the  street  to  the  nearby 
post  office  to  mail  some  letters.    As  I  entered  the  door  of  the  post 


Gratitude  for  the  Brethren 


Street  Meeting  Experience 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


155 


office  on  a  side  street,  I  heard  words  coming  through  an  open  win- 
dow at  the  opposite  side  of  the  building,  which  sounded  very  much 
to  me  like  a  Mormon  missionary  preaching  on  the  street. 

After  mailing  the  letters,  I  eased  over  to  the  open  window,  and 
there  I  saw  two  young  men  in  blue  serge  suits  standing  on  the  corner 
of  the  steps  of  the  post  office.  One  young  man  was  bearing  his 
testimony  regarding  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 
the  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  He  was  earnest;  he  was  sincere; 
he  spoke  with  conviction.  I  thrilled  with  what  he  said.  Some  fifty 
or  seventy-five  people  were  listening  in  addition  to  the  moving 
congregation  that  is  always  part  of  the  street  meeting.  Standing 
at  his  side  was  his  companion.  In  one  arm  were  copies  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  the  hats  of  the  two  brethren  in  his  other  hand. 

When  the  street  meeting  ended,  I  went  out  and  introduced 
myself,  visited  with  them  a  moment,  and  then  I  turned  to  the  young 
man  who  had  been  holding  the  literature  in  his  arm  and  said,  "Elder, 
what  were  you  doing  while  your  companion  was  preaching  and 
bearing  testimony?"  The  answer  filled  my  soul  with  thanksgiving. 
He  said,  "Brother  Benson,  I  was  praying  to  God  that  my  companion 
would  say  the  right  thing  that  would  touch  the  hearts  of  the  people 
and  bring  them  a  conviction  of  the  truth  of  this  great  latter-day 
work." 

Support  for  One  Another 

Support  for  one  another,  that  is  the  one  thought  that  I  have 
to  leave  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  One  of  our  great  needs 
as  a  people  is  greater,  more  loyal  support  for  one  another.  You 
see  it  demonstrated  in  the  leadership  of  the  Church.  It  is  very  com- 
mon out  in  the  stakes  and  the  missions,  and,  oh,  how  important  it 
is  that  we  uphold  and  sustain  one  another  in  our  labors. 

What  do  you  do  when  one  of  your  associates  is  standing  before 
the  public  attempting  to  do  his  duty?  And  when  he  does  a  par- 
ticularly good  job,  maybe  performing  even  beyond  your  own  ability, 
what  is  the  reaction  in  your  heart?  Do  you  have  a  little  pang  of 
jealousy,  or  do  you  rejoice  and  thank  God  for  the  manner  in  which 
he  has  magnified  your  associate?  If  you  do  the  latter,  you  have  one 
of  the  marks  of  greatness.  If  there  comes  a  feeling  of  jealousy,  a 
wish  that  you  might  be  in  his  place,  then  you  have  not  learned  the 
lesson  fully  of  mutual  support  and  true  loyalty. 

God  help  us  to  support  one  another.  May  it  start  in  the  home 
as  we  support  our  families.  May  there  be  a  spirit  of  loyalty,  unity, 
love,  and  mutual  respect.  May  husbands  be  loyal  to  their  wives, 
true  to  them,  love  them,  strive  to  ease  their  burdens,  and  share  the 
responsibility  for  the  care,  training,  and  the  rearing  of  the  children. 
May  mothers  and  wives  show  a  spirit  of  helpfulness  to  their  hus- 
bands, uphold  and  sustain  them  in  their  priesthood  duties,  and  be 
loyal  and  true  to  the  calls  that  come  to  them  from  the  priesthood 
of- God. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


Support  of  Wives 


Occasionally  when  attending  stake  conferences,  and  members 
of  the  stake  presidency  and  other  local  brethren  are  speaking.  I  in- 
dulge in  this  practice — I  look  over  the  audience  and  try  to  pick  out 
the  wives  of  the  men  who  are  speaking.  I  like  to  look  into  their 
faces  as  their  husbands  are  up  bearing  their  testimonies  and  preach- 
ing the  gospel. 

Sometimes  you  will  find  a  wife  who  puts  her  head  down  as  if  she 
felt  sorry  for  the  poor  man.  But  more  often  you  will  find  the  type 
of  support  which  brings  her  to  look  squarely  at  him,  and  you  can 
just  feel  and  see  in  her  face  that  she  is  praying  for  him,  that  she  has 
faith  in  him,  that  she  wants  him  to  succeed.  In  such  cases  it  is 
likely  that  before  they  came  to  the  meeting,  they  knelt  together  in 
family  prayer,  and  if  she  were  called  upon  to  lead  in  that  prayer, 
she  invoked  God's  blessings  upon  her  husband,  in  the  event  he 
would  be  called  upon  in  the  conference. 

It  is  a  glorious  thing  to  have  that  kind  of  support.  I  am  grateful 
for  it  beyond  my  power  of  expression.  I  am  thankful  that  in  my 
home  I  have  that  loyalty — not  only  prayer,  but  fasting  whenever 
there  is  any  great  responsibility  pending. 

God  help  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  support  one  another. 
May  we  support  our  bishops  in  the  wards  in  which  we  live  and 
express  our  gratitude  for  their  leadership.  Let  them  know  that  we 
love  them  and  that  we  sustain  them.  Give  the  same  support  to  our 
Relief  Society  workers,  teachers  in  the  other  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions, and  in  the  priesthood  quorums.   Let  us  support  one  another. 


May  we  go  from  this  conference  with  a  resolve  in  our  hearts 
to  heed  the  counsel  which  has  been  given,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
If  we  do  so,  we  have  nothing  to  fear,  no  matter  what  the  condi- 
tions of  the  world  might  be,  for  the  God  of  heaven  has  given  us  his 
word  that  it  is  his  purpose  to  provide  for  his  Saints.  He  has  said 
of  his  servants,  "They  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for 
I  the  Lord  have  commanded  them."  (D.  &  C.  1:5.)  In  the  early  days 
of  the  Church,  yea,  even  a  year  before  the  Church  was  organized, 
when  there  was  only  a  handful  of  followers  of  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
the  Lord  said  this, 

Therefore,  fear  not,  little  flock;  do  good;  let  earth  and  hell  combine 
against  you,  for  if  ye  are  built  upon  my  rock,  they  cannot  prevail. 

.  .  .  perform  with  soberness  the  work  which  I  have  commanded  you. 
Look  unto  me  in  every  thought;  doubt  not,  fear  not.  (Ibid.,  6:34-36.) 

God  bless  us  that  we  may  go  forward  without  doubt  and  with- 
out fear,  but  with  resolute  hearts  to  live  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  that  we  may  heed  the  counsel  that  has  been  given  in  this  glori- 
ous conference,  because  I  testify  to  you  that  it  has  come  from 
servants  of  God  under  the  inspiration  of  heaven. 


Resolution  to  Heed  Counsel 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


157 


This  is  God's  work,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  God  the  Father 
and  the  Son  did  appear  to  the  Boy  Prophet  in  the  Sacred  Grove.  I 
know  that  to  be  true  as  I  know  that  I  live.  God  lives.  Jesus  is  the 
Christ.  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God.  These  men  whom  you 
have  sustained  as  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and  the  other  Gen- 
eral Authorities  are  also  men  endowed  with  the  same  authority  and 
with  the  same  power  to  bear  off  the  kingdom.  God  help  us  to  sup- 
port them  and  to  sustain  them  in  their  leadership,  and  to  go  forward 
united  as  a  people,  supporting  one  another,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  time  draws  near  for  the  closing 
of  this,  the  one  hundred  and  twenty-second  semi-annual  conference 
of  the  Church. 

Appreciation  Expressed 

Whenever  we  receive  a  favor  or  a  gift,  the  least  we  can  do 
is  to  express  appreciation  by  saying  "thank  you."  Very  often  those 
words  seem  very  feeble  in  expressing  the  feeling  we  have  of  a 
favor  bestowed. 

In  your  behalf  I  should  like  to  say  "thank  you"  to  groups, 
perhaps  some  individuals,  who  have  conferred  favors  upon  us  since 
last  Friday  morning.  I  hesitate  about  naming  persons,  because 
undoubtedly  in  so  doing  we  may  miss  others  who  equally  merit  our 
appreciation. 

First,  I  wish  again  to  express  appreciation  of  the  service  ren- 
dered by  our  Singing  Mothers.  Just  their  presence,  I  repeat,  was 
an  inspiration.  I  wish  to  commend  Sister  Madsen  upon  her  ability 
to  train  that  choral  group  so  ably  in  attack,  expression,  interpre- 
tation, and  those  mothers  for  having  taken  the  time  to  practice  in 
their  various  wards  and  at  least  once  or  twice  as  a  group.  The 
Lord  bless  them  for  the  service  they  rendered  in  this  conference! 

I  wish  to  mention  also  in  appreciation  the  men's  chorus  of  the 
Tabernacle  choir  under  the  leadership  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  for 
the  inspirational  numbers  they  gave  us  last  evening  in  that  mem- 
orable priesthood  meeting. 

And  of  course,  we  must  not  close  the  conference  without  ex- 
pressing appreciation  to  the  Tabernacle  choir,  its  leader,  assistant, 
to  the  organists,  and  to  every  member.  That  singing  group  has 
attained,  through  merit,  outstanding  recognition  as  one  of  the 
great  choral  organizations  of  the  world.  They  merit  the  gratitude  of 
all  members  of  this  Church.  I  do  not  know  of  another  choir  in  the 
world  that  gives  so  much  time  and  means,  financially,  in  their  serv- 
ice, as  the  members  of  this  choral  group.  In  your  behalf,  I  thank 
them  with  all  our  hearts  for  their  unselfish  devotion  and  continual 
attention  to  this  great  duty. 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Day 

I  wish  to  express  appreciation  to  KSL  and  the  specialists  who 
have  given  us  such  efficient  service,  and  to  the  other  stations  in  this 
state  and  surrounding  states,  that  have  graciously  given  us  of  their 
time.  On  one  or  two  occasions,  as  you  know,  we  have  run  over- 
time, but  this  red  signal  has  continued,  undoubtedly  at  great 
financial  cost.  We  thank  these  stations,  one  and  all. 

I  should  like  to  say  a  word  of  appreciation  to  the  ushers  in  the 
Tabernacle,  to  the  caretakers  on  the  Tabernacle  block  and  on  the 
Church  Offce  grounds — ushers  and  laborers  under  the  direction  of 
Irvin  T.  Nelson,  Brother  Marble,  and  other  able  overseers.  You 
do  not  see  them  at  work,  as  some  of  us  do,  but  you  see  the  results 
of  their  labors  in  these  beautiful  grounds,  and  if  you  would  happen 
to  be  at  the  Church  Office  some  morning  before  seven  o'clock,  you 
would  see  one  of  these  brethren  already  at  work,  and  if  you  were 
to  say  to  him,  "Well,  you  are  early,"  he  would  say,  "Yes,  I  always 
come  early  because  I  want  all  this  lawn  to  be  well  sprinkled  before 
the  brethren  come  to  their  offices." 

"True  Nobility" 

To  them  and  to  all  faithful  workers  I  should  like  to  repeat  in 
appreciation  one  of  the  two  choicest  poems  that  Edgar  A.  Guest 
has  written: 

"Who  does  his  task  from  day  to  day 
And  meets  whatever  comes  his  way, 
Believing  God  has  willed  it  so, 
Has  found  true  greatness  here  below. 

"Who  guards  his  post,  no  matter  where 
Believing  God  must  need  him  there, 
Although  but  lowly  toil  it  be, 
Has  risen  to  nobility. 

"For  great  and  low  there's  but  one  test: 
'Tis  that  each  man  shall  do  his  best. 
Who  works  with  all  the  strength  he  can 
Shall  never  die  in  debt  to  man." 

— "True  Nobility,"  Edgar  A.  Guest 
(Used  by  permission  of  the  author.  Copyright,  Detroit  Free  Press.) 

The  Lord  bless  these  workers,  one  and  all! 

I  wish  to  express  appreciation  to  the  presidencies  of  priesthood 
quorums,  and  especially  to  the  bishops  who  have  come  to  this  con- 
ference with  groups  of  their  lesser  priesthood.  I  mentioned  one  case 
last  evening.  At  the  conclusion  of  that  priesthood  meeting,  a  bishop 
met  us  with  two  of  his  quorums  of  deacons.  I  commend  that  fellow- 
ship. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


159 


On  our  way  home  today  Sister  McKay  commented  upon  the 
number  of  young  people  in  attendance  at  conference,  and  I  said, 
"That  is  a  good  sign."  If  we  can  get  some  of  the  boys  under  the 
influence  of  the  bishoprics,  boys  who  perhaps  have  unfortunately 
come  from  broken  homes,  or  more  unfortunately,  homes  in  which 
God  does  not  dwell,  we  shall  save  souls  here  at  home  equally  as 
precious  as  those  whom  we  are  seeking  out  in  the  world.  Continue 
in  that  good  work. 

We  express  appreciation  also  to  the  sisters  and  to  all  who  are 
laboring  in  the  auxiliaries — in  the  Relief  Society,  the  Sunday  School, 
the  Young  Men's  and  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociation, and  in  the  Primary.  Time  will  not  permit  to  elaborate, 
but  these  general  boards  and  stake  boards  and  the  officers  and 
teachers  on  the  firing  line  are  rendering  to  you  parents  and  to  the 
Church  generally  a  wonderful  service.   God  will  reward  them. 

Experience  of  Paul 

In  conclusion,  may  I  call  attention  to  the  experience  that  Paul 
had  just  as  he  neared  Damascus  with  papers  in  his  pocket  to  arrest 
all  who  believed  in  Jesus  Christ.  A  light  suddenly  shone  about  him, 
and  he  heard  a  voice  saying,  "Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest  thou 
me?" 

And  he  said,  "Who  art  thou,  Lord?" 

The  answer  came,  "I  am  Jesus,  whom  thou  persecutest.  It  is 
hard  for  thee  to.  kick  against  the  pricks." 

Saul  said,  "What  wilt  thou  have  me  do?" 

The  voice  answered,  "Go  into  the  city,  and  it  will  be  told  thee 
what  thou  must  do."  (See  Acts  9:4-6.) 

There  are  two  elements  in  that  incident,  commenting  briefly 
upon  which  I  will  close  my  remarks.  The  first  is  that  the  Savior 
recognized  his  authority  on  earth.  He  could,  in  a  few  words,  have 
told  Saul  what  he  should  do,  but  there  was  a  branch  of  the  Church 
in  Damascus,  presided  over  by  a  humble  man  named  Ananias,  and 
Jesus  recognized  that  authority.  He  knew  Saul's  nature.  He  knew 
that  in  the  future  it  would  be  difficult  for  him  to  recognize  the 
authority  of  the  Church,  as  instances  later  proved. 

He  said,  "Go  into  the  city,  and  there  it  will  be  told  thee  what 
thou  must  do,"  and  Saul  had  to  receive  from  the  very  man  whom  he 
was  going  to  arrest  instructions  regarding  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

There  is  a  lesson  for  us  all  in  this  Church.  Let  us,  too,  recog- 
nize the  local  authority.  The  bishop  may  be  a  humble  man.  Some 
of  you  may  think  you  are  superior  to  him,  but  he  is  given  authority 
direct  from  our  Father  in  heaven.  Recognize  it.  Seek  his  advice, 
the  arlvice  of  your  stake  presidents.  If  they  cannot  answer  your 
difficulties  or  your  problems,  they  will  write  to  others,  the  General 
Authorities,  and  get  the  advice  needed.  Recognition  of  authority 
is  an  important  principle. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Third  Day 

Divine  Interest  in  Church 

The  other  element  in  that  incident  to  Paul  near  Damascus  is 
the  great  fact  that  Jesus,  our  Lord,  is  interested  in  his  Church,  and 
in  the  members.  As  he  was  interested  then,  so  he  is  interested 
today. 

I  like  to  feel  that  he  is  watching  over  us,  that  he  is  grieved 
when  we  do  not  comply  with  the  ideals  and  the  standards  he  has 
given  us  in  the  gospel.  He  was  grieved  with  Saul,  a  chosen  servant, 
who  was  going  about  blindly  to  destroy  the  Church.  He  is  de- 
lighted when  he  finds  the  brethren  whom  he  has  appointed  doing 
their  duty  and  trying  to  live  clean,  upright  lives,  living  in  accordance 
with  the  standards  of  the  gospel. 

I  like  to  feel  that  his  servants  whom  he  has  chosen  in  this  dis- 
pensation are  also  interested  and  I  hope  that  President  George 
Albert  Smith,  who  was  with  us  not  long  ago,  is  pleased  with  what 
we  have  done  during  the  last  six  months.  I  am  sure  he  is  pleased 
with  the  setting  apart  of  the  temple  site  in  Los  Angeles  because  I 
know  that  was  an  enterprise  that  was  dear  to  his  heart. 

I  like  to  feel  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  near  us,  ready 
to  help,  especially  pleased  to  see  that  the  Church  is  growing.  And 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  President  Lorenzo  Snow,  President  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff — those  men,  I  have  met — President  Woodruff,  in 
our  home,  closely  associated  with  President  Smith,  and  as  you 
know,  with  President  Grant  and  President  George  Albert  Smith. 

I  like  to  think  that  President  John  Taylor  is  equally  interested, 
also  President  Young,  and  especially  the  Prophet  Joseph.  The  work 
over  on  the  other  side  is  real,  and  the  curtain  sometimes  between 
us  and  them  is  very  thin.  I  hope  the  Lord  will  help  us  to  go  forward 
as  these,  his  former  representatives,  would  like  us  to  go  forward, 
that  we  shall  always  realize,  as  has  been  said  once  or  twice  in  this 
conference,  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  our  head. 

Now  let  us  go  back  to  our  homes  with  that  testimony. 

Importance  of  the  Home 

Among  the  many  great  messages  that  we  have  received  I 
should  just  like  to  emphasize  two:  One,  of  course,  is  the  home,  Thir- 
teen thousand  men  of  the  priesthood  were  here  last  night.  Every 
one  should  go  back  to  his  home  and  look  around  and  see  wherein 
he  can  make  it  more  ideally  a  Latter-day  Saint  home. 

One  day  a  young  son,  just  married,  invited  his  father  to  visit 
him  and  his  bride  in  their  new  home.  The  young  son  took  the  father 
from  room  to  room  and  showed  him  the  furnishings,  the  paintings  on 
the  walls  and  so  forth,  and  the  father  said,  "This  is  lovely.  I  con- 
gratulate you,  but,  son,  I  have  looked  in  vain  for  anything  that  in- 
dicates that  you  have  a  place  here  for  God." 

In  writing  about  it  later,  the  young  man  said,  "I  went  through 
the  rooms  later,  and  I  found  that  Father  was  right." 


160 

Sunday,  October  7 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


161 


Let  us  go  back  to  our  homes  and  see  whether  the  spirit  of  our 
homes  is  such  that  if  an  angel  called,  he  would  be  pleased  to  remain. 

Priesthood  Activity 

The  other  great  message  is  for  the  priesthood  quorums  to  be 
more  active,  to  reach  out  and  get  the  indifferent,  approaching  them 
personally,  and,  as  has  already  been  said,  "Reproving  betimes  with 
sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost;  and  then  showing 
forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him  whom  thou  hast 
reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy."  (D.  &  C.  121:43.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  could  not  have  written  that  of  his 
own  wisdom.  That  is  one  of  the  great  flashes  of  inspiration  that 
prove  his  divinity. 

Loyalty  to  Country 

Finally,  let  us  be  true  to  our  country  and  to  our  country's  ideals. 
Nearly  three  thousand  years  ago  an  ancient  prophet  said  that  this 
is  a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands,  and  it  is,  and  the  government 
of  the  United  States  as  given  to  us  by  our  fathers  is  the  real  govern- 
ment under  which  individuals  may  exercise  free  agency,  individual 
initiative. 

Oh,  let  us  oppose  any  subversive  influence  that  would  deprive 
us  of  our  individual  freedom  or  make  this  government  a  dictator  in- 
stead of  a  servant  to  the  people. 

Time  is  up.  In  conclusion  I  repeat  the  words  of  the  Lord, 
"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn  his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the 
office  in  which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be  counted  worthy  to  stand,  and 
he  that  learns  not  his  duty  and  shows  himself  not  approved  shall 
not  be  counted  worthy  to  stand."  (D.  &  C.  107:98-9.) 

God  help  us  all,  that  we  may  live  more  nearly  to  the  ideals  of 
our  Savior  as  revealed  in  the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  the  Redeemer.  Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "Thanks  Be  to  God." 
S.  Norman  Lee,  Patriarch  of  the  Box  Elder  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


162 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of  the  Church  convened  in 
the  Tabernacle  at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  October  6th. 

In  addition  to  the  great  crowd  that  met  in  the  Tabernacle,  the 
Assembly  Hall  to  the  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  and  Barratt  Hall  (60 
North  Main ) ,  were  filled  with  men  of  the  Priesthood. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was  present  and  presided  at  this 
meeting  and  conducted  the  services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  furnished  the  choral  music 
for  this  meeting,  and  joined  with  the  congregation  in  singing  as  an 
opening  number  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 

Elder  David  F.  Haymore,  formerly  president  of  the  Spanish- 
American  Mission,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  then  sang,  "The  Lord  Is 
My  Shepherd." 

BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

Brethren,  I  have  certainly  enjoyed  this  conference  with  you, 
and  the  spirit  thereof,  and  I  appreciate  the  privilege  this  night  of 
addressing  this  great  body  of  Priesthood. 

A  Calling  of  Service 

As  I  thought  of  the  Priesthood  being  gathered  here,  knowing 
that  this  Tabernacle  is  full,  and  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  Barratt 
Hall,  representing  the  Priesthood  of  this  great  Church,  I  thought 
of  the  Apostle  Paul,  speaking  of  the  Priesthood  of  his  day,  when  he 
said  that  the  Lord  had  given  some  apostles,  and  some  prophets,  and 
some  evangelists  and  some  pastors,  and  teachers,  for  the  perfecting  of 
the  Saints,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying  of  the  body 
of  Christ,  until  we  should  all  come  to  a  unity  of  the  faith,  and  of  the 
knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God,— that  we  henceforth  be  no  more 
children,  tossed  to  and  fro  and  carried  about  with  every  wind  of 
doctrine,  by  the  sleight  of  men,  and  cunning  craftiness  whereby  they 
lie  in  wait  to  deceive. 

Now,  if  you  will  analyze  this  statement  you  will  see  that  Paul 
understood  that  our  calling  is  a  calling  of  service;  the  work  of  the 
ministry , — the  great  missionary  cause  of  this  Church.  The  edifying 
of  the  body  of  Christ,  and  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints:— all  this  work 
that  we  do  in  the  wards  and  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  in  the  branches, 
in  order  to  try  and  teach  the  Gospel,  so  that  the  people,  after  they 
take  upon  them  the  name  of  Christ  and  become  members  of  His  great 
Church,  will  not  be  tossed  to  and  fro  by  every  wind  of  doctrine,  but 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  163 


that  we  watch  over  the  Church  and  see  that  they  are  taught  the 
Gospel. 

I  hope  that  in  all  of  our  efforts,  we  will  try  to  plant  a  testimony 
in  the  hearts  of  the  membership  of  this  Church  so  that  they  will  be 
able  to  stand  no  matter  what  teachings  may  come  among  us. 

Knowledge  of  Gospel 

In  some  of  our  Priesthood  council  meetings,  there  has  been 
some  apprehension  for  fear  that  our  own  might  be  led  away  from 
us  because  of  the  missionary  efforts  of  other  churches.  One  large 
church  in  the  land  has  publicized  that  their  greatest  missionary 
effort  for  the  next  ten  years  would  be  conducted  right  here  in  the 
state  of  Utah,  and  we  have  lost  a  few.  I  think  we  have  gained 
more  from  them  than  they  have  taken  from  us. 

We  wonder  how  any  of  ours  can  ever  leave  us  if  we  have 
taught  them  the  Gospel,  and  are  watching  over  them  as  the  Priest- 
hood of  the  Church,  so  that  they  will  not  be  led  away  by  these 
false  teachings. 

I  was  interested  in  attending  a  conference  here  in  Salt  Lake 
a  few  weeks  ago,  in  visiting  with  Sister  Williams  who  used  to  be 
on  the  M.  I.  A.  Board  of  the  Church.  Formerly  she  wrote  a  column 
in  the  Deseret  News  called  the  "Question  and  Answer"  column. 
She  told  about  a  young  girl,  one  of  our  Latter-day  Saint  girls  who 
went  east,  and  wrote  home,  and  said  something  like  this: 

"I  have  been  asked  so  many  questions  about  our  Church  and 
what  we  believe  in  since  I  have  come  here,  that  I  am  writing  to  ask 
you  to  tell  me  what  the  first  principles  of  the  Gospel  really  are.  I 
know  the  first  two  are  that  we  should  not  use  coffee  or  tea  or  play 
cards." 

That  was  about  her  conception  of  what  the  first  principles 
were,  but  she  had  that  testimony  that  burns  inside  and  she  wanted 
to  know  more  about  our  teachings. 

Advice  to  Missionary 

I  had  a  missionary  write  me  once,  who  said  something  like 
this:  "I  met  a  minister  the  other  day  who  knows  more  about  religion 
than  I  ever  dreamed  of.  I  told  him  if  he  had  something  better  than 
I  had,  I  would  join  his  church." 

I  wrote  him  back,  and  said,  "You  said  just  the  right  thing  ex- 
actly. If  he  has  something  better  than  you  have  you  ought  to  join 
his  church.  But,"  I  said,  "have  you  ever  stopped  to  figure  out  how 
it  is  possible  for  him  to  have  something  better  than  you  have.  Has 
he  something  better  than  a  personal  visit  from  God  the  Eternal 
Father  and  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  to  this  earth  to  open  a  new  gospel 
dispensation?   And  in  answer  to  the  question  of  the  boy  prophet, 


164  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

which  of  all  the  churches  he  should  join,  he  was  told  that  he  should 
join  none  of  them  for  they  all  taught  for  doctrine  the  commandments 
of  men.  Now  why  worry  about  all  of  the  other  churches  with  an 
answer  like  that  coming  direct  from  the  Savior  of  the  world,  the 
one  who  has  the  right  to  speak  and  to  pronounce  judgment  upon  all 
the  Christian  churches  in  the  world?" 

Then  I  went  on  to  add,  "Does  he  have  something  better  than 
a  visit  from  Moroni  with  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon 
was  translated,  a  visit  from  John  the  Baptist  with  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  Peter,.  James  and  John  with  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood and  the  keys  of  the  holy  apostleship?"  and  then  I  continued 
by  referring  to  the  coming  of  Elijah  the  Prophet  of  whom  Malachi 
testified  that  if  it  were  not  for  his  coming  the  whole  earth  would  be 
utterly  wasted  at  his  coming,  and  then  of  Moses  and  Elias.  Then 
I  said,  "If  he  has  something  better  than  that  you  join  his  church." 

Story  of  Prophet  Joseph 

I  usually  make  a  similar  statement  to  the  missionaries  when  I 
interview  them  for  their  missions.  I  say  "when  you  go  to  buy  a 
suit,  it  either  fits  or  it  doesn't  fit.  Now,"  I  say,  "Take  the  story  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Does  it  fit,  or  doesn't  it  fit?  Then  I 
enumerate  these  things,  and  then  add,  "If  you  can  believe  the 
Prophet's  story,  you  know  we  do  not  have  just  another  Church, 
but  we  have  the  only  true  Church,  for  no  other  church  is  built  upon 
such  a  foundation.  When  you  hear  that  song  of  what  rapture 
filled  his  bosom  because  he  saw  the  God  of  love,  I  think  of  it  so  many, 
many  times.  I  think  of  the  rapture  that  fills  the  bosoms  of  our  mis- 
sionaries when  they  get  in  the  field  and  catch  the  spirit  of  this 
work.  I  have  seen  many  of  them  that  I  think  could  have  given  their 
lives  and  given  them  gladly  for  the  testimony  of  Jesus  that  they  had 
because  of  the  rapture  that  filled  their  bosoms  because  of  the  spirit 
of  this  great  latter-day  work. 

My  feeling  is  that  if  we  could  get  that  spirit  into  the  hearts  of 
our  young  people  we  could  trust  them  anywhere.  They  don't  need 
to  know  all  of  the  answers  to  the  scriptures.  They  don't  need  to 
be  able  to  explain  all  of  the  writings  of  Holy  Writ.  They  need  to 
know  what  the  God  of  Heaven  has  done  in  our  day,  and  then  the 
rest  of  it  is  only  a  process  of  study  and  information  in  order  that 
they  might  be  able  to  better  preach  and  teach  arid  know  of  the  teach- 
ings of  the  prophets  of  old. 

When  I  went  on  my  first  mission,  President  Anthon  H.  Lund 
addressed  us  missionaries,  and  said  something  like  this: 

"Now,  brethren,  when  you  go  on  your  missions,  if  you  ever 
lack  for  anything  to  say,  just  bear  testimony  that  you  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God  and  the  Book  of  Mormon  is 
true,  and  I  promise  you  that  you  will  have  something  to  talk  about." 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  165 


Missionary  Experience 

I  have  put  that  promise  to  the  test.  One  time  while  I  was  sec- 
retary of  the  Netherlands  Mission,  and  had  only  been  there  a  few 
months  and  did  not  know  the  language  very  well,  the  Mission 
President  told  me  that  if  I  would  write  down  the  addresses  of  the 
brethren,  including  President  Grant's  who  was  then  president  of 
the  European  Mission,  he  would  not  call  on  me  to  speak. 

But  there  was  one  greater  than  the  mission  president  there,  and 
that  was  President  Grant,  and  he  said,  "I  want  to  hear  from  Brother 
Richards."  So  while  I  was  sitting  down  in  front  taking  the  minutes 
of  the  meeting  I  was  announced  as  the  next  speaker.  As  I  walked 
up  on  that  platform  with  an  audience  of  some  1500,  many  of  whom 
came  with  their  stovepipe  hats  and  their  walking  sticks,  I  thought 
of  the  promise  of  President  Anthon  H.  Lund  that  if  you  ever  need 
anything  to  talk  about,  just  bear  witness  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God  and  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true  and  the  Lord 
will  give  you  something  to  talk  about,  and  one  of  the  finest  testi- 
monies of  my  life  came  out  of  that  experience  that  night.  There  are 
some  Latter-day  Saints  here  in  Salt  Lake  today  who  give  credit 
to  my  testimony  that  night  for  having  started  them  to  investigate 
our  message.  I  have  truly  learned  the  truth  of  the  words  of  the 
scripture:  "for  the  letter  killeth  but  the  Spirit  giveth  life." 

I  just  feel  that  if  we  could  feel  that  rapture  in  our  bosoms  from 
telling  these  glorious  stories,  and  that  our  young  people  could  feel 
it,  we  would  not  need  to  worry  too  much  about  interpretations  of 
the  scriptures. 

Strength  of  the  Mormon  Position 

I  am  impressed  with  a  statement  that  Brother  Orson  F.  Whit- 
ney used  to  tell  from  this  stand,  and  published  in  the  little  pamphlet 
he  wrote  on  the  "Strength  of  the  Mormon  Position."  He  told  about 
an  interview  he  had  with  a  prominent  Catholic  priest  who  once 
occupied  this  pulpit  here  in  this  tabernacle,  in  these  words: 

"Many  years  ago  a  learned  man,  a  member  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church  came  to  Utah  and  spoke  from  the  stand  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Tabernacle.  I  became  well  acquainted  with  him,  and  we 
conversed  freely  and  frankly,  a  great  scholar  with  perhaps  a  dozen 
languages  at  his  tongue's  end.  He  seemed  to  know  all  about  the- 
ology, law,  literature,  science,  and  philosophy.  One  day  he  said  to 
me,  'You  Mormons  are  all  ignoramuses.  You  don't  even  know  the 
strength  of  your  own  position.  It  is  so  strong  that  there  is  only  one 
other  tenable  in  the  whole  Christian  world.  That  is  the  position  of 
the  Catholic  church. 

"  'The  issue  is  between  Catholicism  and  Mormonism.  If  we 
are  right,  you  are  wrong.  If  you  are  right,  we  are  wrong,  and  that 
is  all  there  is  to  it.  Protestants  haven't  a  leg  to  stand  on,  for  if  we 
are  wrong  they  are  all  wrong  with  us  since  they  were  a  part  of  us 


166  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  6  Second  Day 

and  went  out  from  us,  while  if  we  are  right,  they  are  apostates  whom 
we  cut  off  long  ago.  If  we  have  the  apostolic  succession  from  St. 
Peter  as  we  claim,  there  is  no  need  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Mormon- 
ism.  But  if  we  have  not  that  succession,  then  such  a  man  as  Joseph 
Smith  was  necessary,  and  Mormonism's  attitude  is  the  only  con- 
sistent one.  It  is  either  the  perpetuation  of  the  Gospel  from  ancient 
times,  or  the  Restoration  of  the  Gospel  in  the  latter  days."  And 
we  know  it  has  been  restored  and  so  that  is  all  there  is  about  it. 
That  ought  to  settle  all  disputes  when  we  ffave  to  discuss  religion 
with  any  other  church. 

They  might  be  able  to  out-argue  some  of  our  young  people, 
but  they  can't  take  away  the  visit  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  nor 
the  visit  of  the  other  holy  messengers,  nor  the  visit  of  Moroni  and 
the  information  contained  in  that  Book  of  Mormon. 

Experience  in  Sunday  School 

When  I  was  a  boy  in  the  little  town  where  I  was  raised,  I  had 
the  privilege  of  leading  the  Sunday  School  in  reciting  the  testimony 
of  the  three  witnesses.  I  remember  upon  that  occasion  Karl  G. 
Maeser  and  Brother  George  Goddard  were  there.  Brother  Goddard 
used  to  teach  us  to  sing,  "Take  away  the  whiskey,  the  coffee  and 
the  tea.  Cold  water  is  the  drink  for  me,"  and  "Who's  on  the  Lord's 
Side,  Who?  Now  is  the  time  to  show.  We  ask  it  fearlessly, 
who's  on  the  Lord's  Side,  who?" 

I  will  never  forget  that  experience,  and  the  testimony  of  those 
three  witnesses  has  never  left  me.  It  is  a  marvelous  thing  when  the 
Lord  touches  your  heart  to  realize  that  these  things  that  He  has 
given  unto  us  are  divine,  and  that  they  come  from  Him. 

Marriages  Out  of  the  Church 

As  we  travel  about  the  Church  we  see  a  good  many  people  who 
have  strayed  away  from  the  Church.  Sometimes  their  testimonies 
become  dim  for  a  time  because  some  of  them  have  married  out  of 
the  Church.  They  think  they  can  get  away  from  the  Church.  I 
remember  that  while  I  was  president  of  a  stake  in  California  a 
young  lady  came  into  my  office  one  day  selling  neckties. 

She  said,  "I  guess  you  don't  remember  me,  do  you,  Brother 
Richards?" 

I  said,  "No,  I  don't  believe  I  do.   Who  are  you?" 

Then  she  told  me  that  she  had  taught  Sunday  School  under 
me  here  in  Salt  Lake  when  I  was  superintendent  of  a  ward  Sunday 
School.  Then  I  remembered  her  and  said,  "What  is  the  rest  of 
the  story?" 

She  said,  "I  fell  in  love  with  a  Catholic  boy,  and  I  loved  him 
so  much  that  I  didn't  think  it  would  make  any  difference  to  the 
Lord  whether  I  worshipped  him  in  the  Catholic  church,  or  the  Mor- 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS  167 


mon  Church,  so  I  went  all  the  way  with  him,  and  we  were  married 
by  his  priest,  and  I  agreed  to  raise  my  children  in  the  Catholic 
church.  Now  we  have  three  children,  and  I  told  him  the  other  day 
that  I  was  the  biggest  hypocrite  in  the  whole  world,  that  I  didn't 
believe  a  thing  that  was  going  on  in  his  church,  that  I  knew  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
true.  I  don't  know  what  is  going  to  become  of  you  and  me  and  the 
children,  but  I  am  going  back  to  my  Church." 

I  was  in  New  York  some  time  ago,  and  the  president  of  the 
stake  told  me  about  a  woman  there  who,  on  her  deathbed,  called 
the  stake  president  and  her  bishop.  She  had  married  a  Catholic,  a 
Salt  Lake  girl,  and  she  went  east  with  him,  and  he  died,  and  he  left 
her  quite  an  estate,  but  he  left  his  old  maid  Catholic  sister  to  ad- 
minister it,  with  the  instructions  that  if  she  attempted  to  bring  her 
children  up  in  the  Mormon  Church  she  was  to  be  cut  off  entirely 
from  the  estate. 

On  her  deathbed,  with  her  son  and  daughter  having  entered 
their  twenties  she  plead  with  her  bishop  and  stake  president  to  see 
if  they  could  not  do  something  to  save  her  children  to  the  Church. 

She  said,  "I  made  an  awful  mistake.  If  I  had  it  to  do  over 
again,  I  would  crawl  on  my  hands  and  knees  back  to  Salt  Lake  City 
in  order  to  raise  my  children  in  the  Church,  if  I  had  to  go  out  wash- 
ing every  day  to  earn  a  living  for  them." 

I  was  in  Chicago  attending  a  conference  meeting,  and  a  little 
mother  with  a  baby  in  her  arms  sitting  down  in  the  center,  at  the 
close  of  the  meeting  came  up  and  said,  "Bishop,  I  would  like  to 
shake  your  hand." 

I  said,  "I  would  certainly  be  glad  to  shake  yours."  Then  she 
started  to  cry,  and  I  said,  "You're  a  western  girl,  aren't  you?"  I 
got  a  nod  of  approval,  and  I  said,  "And  you  married  out  of  the 
Church?"  and  I  got  another  nod.  She  couldn't  talk.  Her  emotions 
had  gotten  the  best  of  her.  I  said,  "And  your  husband  does  not  like 
you  to  come  and  meet  with  your  people?"  and  I  got  another  nod. 
Then  I  said,  "And  you're  homesick — homesick  for  your  Church 
and  for  your  people."  With  that  she  sat  down  on  the  front  bench, 
covered  her  face  in  the  shawl  that  wrapped  her  little  baby,  and  wept 
like  her  heart  would  break. 

"Testimony  of  the  Spirit" 

I  tell  you  this  world  is  not  big  enough  that  you  can  run  away 
from  the  testimony  that  the  Lord  plants  in  your  heart — as  President 
Clark  tells  us  so  often — "the  testimony  of  the  Spirit." 

I  want  to  bear  witness  of  that  testimony.  I  would  like  to  see  us 
plant  it  in  the  hearts  of  our  young  people.  I  would  like  to  see  them 
encouraged  to  bear  their  testimonies  in  Sunday  School  and  in  our 
fast  meetings.  President  Brigham  Young  is  accredited  with  having 
said  that  we  can  get  a  testimony  quicker  on  our  feet  than  we  can 


168  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,   October  6  Second  Day 

on  our  knees,  and  I  believe  it.  As  I  have  gone  around  this  Church 
and  listened  to  men  who  have  been  called  to  represent  the  Adult 
Group  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  I  have  seen  those  men  stand  up 
and  weep.  One  man  right  near  here  recently  said  he  had  lived  in  his 
ward  16  years,  and  his  bishop  had  never  asked  him  to  do  anything. 
He  stood  there  and  wept  with  gratitude  and  thankfulness  for  the 
opportunity  he  had  to  speak. 

I  heard  another  man  who  manages  a  chain  store,  who  was  called 
to  represent  that  group,  and  before  he  got  through,  he  had  caught 
the  spirit  of  it,  and  he  said,  "I  haven't  done  as  I  should  have  done, 
but  I  am  here  today  to  tell  you  that  before  this  year  ends  I  am  go- 
ing to  be  ready  to  ask  my  bishop  for  a  recommend  to  take  my  wife 
and  children  to  the  temple  and  have  them  sealed  to  me." 

He  had  had  a  long  time  to  think  about  it  but  he  had  to  get  on 
his  feet  before  he  felt  inspired  to  make  such  a  resolution.  It  is  a 
little  like  the  story  they  tell  of  the  old  lady  who  came  home  from 
fast  meeting  one  day,  and  said  to  her  daughter,  "That  is  the  best 
fast  meeting  I  have  ever  attended." 

The  daughter  said,  "Is  that  so,  Mother?  Who  spoke?"  "I  did," 
she  said. 

There  is  something  about  this  testimony  of  the  spirit  that  is 
the  most  wonderful  thing  in  all  the  world.  It  was  what  Peter  had 
when  Jesus  announced  that  he  was  the  Son  of  God,  and  that  was 
more  than  the  multitude  could  take,  so  one  by  one  they  went  away. 
Then  Jesus  turned  to  Peter  and  to  the  apostles,  and  asked  them  why 
they  did  not  leave  also.  Then  Peter  replied,  "Whither  shall  we 
go,  Lord,  for  we  know  that  thou  hast  the  words  of  eternal  life?" 

Responsibility  of  Priesthood 

Brethren,  you  are  called  in  this  great  Priesthood  of  the  Lord  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ,  for 
the  perfection  of  the  Saints,  and  it  is  our  responsibility  to  plant  in 
their  hearts  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  so  that  no  mat- 
ter where  they  go,  and  no  matter  what  arguments  are  brought,  they 
know  that  these  fundamental  facts  are  true — that  God  the  Father 
and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ  did  appear  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  if 
these  facts  are  not  true  then  we  have  no  right  to  be  holding  this 
conference  because  then  the  whole  thing  is  a  deception. 

Our  testimonies  of  this  great  latter-day  work  to  many  are  like 
the  testimonies  of  the  women  who  went  to  the  tomb,  and  saw  that 
the  body  of  Jesus  had  arisen  and  when  they  told  this  story  it  seemed 
to  the  people  to  be  but  idle  tales.  Many  think  when  we  bear  them 
our  testimony  of  the  marvelous  work  and  wonder  the  Lord  has 
brought  forth,  that  it  is  nothing  but  idle  tales. 

But  it  is  God's  eternal  truth.  Of  this  I  bear  you  my  testimony 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


169 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  Bishop  is  a  hard  man  for  a  quiet  man  to  follow. 

I  always  enjoy  the  Bishop.  He  has  such  a  marvelous  en- 
thusiasm, a  wonderful  testimony,  and  a  wide  experience,  that  he 
always  stirs  me.  I  thank  him  for  his  sermon  tonight,  and  for  its  up- 
lifting thought  and  word. 

Power  of  the  Priesthood 

Again,  brethren,  it  is  a  great  privilege  to  meet  with  you  here  in 
this  Priesthood  meeting.  Again  I  am  impressed  with  the  power  of 
the  Priesthood.  Again  I  am  reminded  that  this  is  the  greatest  gather- 
ing of  Priesthood — these  gatherings  of  ours, — that  can  be  held  in 
the  world.  Greatest  because  of  the  great  number  of  men  who  come 
together  with  one  thought,  one  allegiance,  one  Priesthood.  Greatest, 
because  in  the  second  place,  we  hold  the  Priesthood  of  Almighty 
God,  with  all  the  powers,  rights,  and  authorities  which  are  incident 
to  that  Priesthood. 

I  wonder  if  we  believe  that?  I  wonder  if  in  our  hearts  we  all 
have  that  firm  conviction  that  we  are  possessed  of  the  Priesthood 
of  God,  that  that  Priesthood  gives  us  certain  powers,  certain  rights, 
spiritual  rights?  I  hope  we  do. 

An  Everlasting  Endowment 

My  brethren,  I  wish  we  could  all  appreciate  that  wherever  we 
go,  this  Priesthood  goes  with  us.  The  Priesthood  is  not  like  a  suit 
of  clothes  that  you  can  lay  off  and  take  back  on.  It  is  an  everlasting — 
depending  upon  ourselves — an  everlasting  endowment.  If  we  could 
get  that  into  our  minds  and  hearts,  so  that  it  was  really  a  part  and 
parcel  of  us,  we  would  be  far  nearer  to  a  solution  of  our  many  diffi- 
culties— the  difficulties  of  life  that  beset  us — than  we  are  today. 

If  we  really  had  that  thought,  that  conviction,  and  that  recol- 
lection of  the  character  of  the  Priesthood  which  we  hold,  and  that 
we  could  not  lay  it  aside,  and  that  God  would  hold  us  responsible 
if  we  prostituted  it,  it  would  save  us  from  doing  a  good  many  things, 
save  us  from  going  a  good  many  places.  If,  every  time  we  started 
a  little  detour  away  from  the  straight  and  narrow,  we  would  remem- 
ber, "I  am  carrying  my  Priesthood  here.  Should  I?"  it  would  not  take 
us  long  to  work  back  into  the  straight  and  narrow. 

I  often  think  that  I  should  try,  and  I  do  try,  never  to  be  any- 
where or  engaged  in  anything,  so  that  if  suddenly  called  to  the  bed- 
side of  the  sick,  and  particularly  of  my  own,  I  would  have  to  go 
blushing,  or  trying  to  forget  where  I  had  been,  what  I  was  doing. 

Brethren,  if  we  could  just  hold  a  few  simple  little  things  like 
that  in  our  minds  we  would  find  it  so  much  easier  to  tread  the  narrow 
way.  If  you  were  called  to  the  bedside  of  your  loved  one,  not  in  the 


170  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  6  Second  Dag 

condition,  and  not  so  you  could  invoke  as  a  right,  and  feeling  you  had 
a  right,  the  power  of  the  Priesthood,  and  the  worst  happened,  what 
are  you  going  to  do  about  it?  What  are  you  going  to  think  about  it? 
What  is  your  wife  going  to  think  about  it?  For  the  chances  are  the 
wife  is  living  more  nearly  as  she  should  than  you,  if  you  were  thus 
guilty.  Oh,  my  brethren,  don't  sell  your  birthright — your  Priesthood 
birthright — for  a  mess  of  pottage. 

Chastity  to  be  Guarded 

I  would  like  to  urge  you  young  people  to  guard,  even  as  you 
guard  your  life,  your  chastity.  I  would  like  you  to  remember  and  to 
know  that  for  a  moment  of  ecstasy  you  can  have  an  eternity  of  pain. 
It  is  not  worth  it,  and  if  you  would  keep  yourselves  straight,  then 
never  make  the  first  approach.  I  am  telling  you  boys  that  if  you  will 
conduct  yourselves  properly,  if  you  let  it  be  known  to  your  associates 
of  the  opposite  sex  that  you  are  strict,  you  will  never  have  much 
difficulty  with  them.  It  is  only  when  you  begin  to  edge  over  that 
they,  if  they  be  bad,  come  along. 

Incident  in  Life  of  Savior 

I  was  thinking  this  afternoon,  after  I  went  home  from  meeting, 
of  an  incident  in  the  life  of  the  Savior.  I  was  moved  to  this  thought, 
more  or  less  following  out  some  of  the  ideas  I  tried  to  express  this 
morning.  You  remember  that  awhile  after  the  Savior  was  crucified 
and  resurrected,  Peter,  Thomas,  Didymus,  Nathaniel  of  Cana,  James 
and  John,  and  two  others — seven  of  them  altogether — responded  to 
Peter's  suggestion  that  they  go  fishing.  Peter  evidently  thought  that 
it  was  all  over.  Even  though  the  Savior  had  visited  them  at  least 
twice  before,  he  did  not  understand  what  it  was  all  about. 

So  they  went  fishing.  They  fished  all  night  and  caught  nothing, 
as  you  will  remember.  The  next  morning,  as  the  day  dawned,  they 
were  near  shore,  and  they  saw,  standing  on  the  beach,  a  man.  The 
man  asked  them  if  they  had  caught  any  fish,  and  they  said  no.  He 
said,  "Throw  your  net  on  the  other  side."  They  did,  and  it  was 
filled. 

Then  John  said,  "It  is  the  Lord."  And  I  think  John  had  in  mind 
an  earlier  experience  at  the  beginning  of  the  Savior's  mission,  when 
on  one  occasion,  he  entered  a  boat  belonging  to  Peter,  and  had  him 
push  it  out  from  the  shore  so  that  the  people  could  not  gather  round 
too  close  to  him,  and  preached  a  sermon.  Then  he  told  Peter  to  row 
out  and  get  some  fish.  Peter  said,  "I  have  fished  all  night  and  have 
not  caught  anything,  but  if  you  say  so,  I  will  row  it  out."  So  he 
went  out  a  little  distance.  The  Savior  told  him  to  throw  out  his  net, 
and  he  caught  the  fish,  so  many  that  he  had  to  call  for  his  partners, 
the  sons  of  Zebedee,  to  come  and  help  him. 

At  that  sight,  Peter  said,  "Depart  from  me.   I  am  a  sinful  man. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK.  JR.  171 


O  Lord."  And  after  a  little  conversation,  the  Lord  said,  "Fear  not, 
as  hereafter  you  will  catch  men." 

I  think  that  John  remembered  that  as  he  heard  the  direction  to 
put  the  net  on  the  other  side,  and  then  he  said,  "It  is  the  Lord."  You 
will  remember  that  they  caught  the  fish,  great  quantities  of  them. 

Peter — I  love  Peter.  He  had  a  little  trouble  the  night  before 
the  crucifixion,  but  Peter  was  a  great  man,  the  man  whom  the  Lord 
chose  to  be  the  senior  in  the  presidency.  Peter  girded  his  coat  about 
him,  for  he  was  naked.  I  have  always  thought  there  was  a  lesson  in 
that — that  Peter  would  not  appear  before  the  Lord  nude. 

At  golf  clubs  and  other  places  you  men  run  around  nude.  I 
wonder  if  that  is  quite  right.   I  would  think  about  it  if  I  were  you. 

Peter  went  ashore,  and  the  other  men  came  ashore.  They  saw 
it  was  the  Lord,  and  the  Lord  told  them  to  bring  some  more  fish. 
He  had  fish,  and  he  had  bread.  The  fish  was  cooked.  They  ate 
their  meat  there  on  the  seashore,  there  in  the  early  morning  light. 

Charge  to  Peter 

When  they  had  finished,  the  Lord  said  to  Peter,  "Peter,  lovest 
thou  me  more  than  these" 

And  Peter  ignored  the  second  part  of  the  question  and  said, 
"Lord,  thou  knowest  I  love  thee."   The  Lord  said,  "Feed  my  lambs." 

Then  he  renewed  the  question,  "Peter  lovest  thou  me?"  "Yea, 
Lord,  thou  knowest  I  love  thee."  And  the  third  time  the  question 
came,  and  then  as  the  record  says,  Peter  was  grieved,  and  said,  "O, 
Lord,  thou  knowest  all  things.  Thou  knowest  I  love  thee."  "Feed 
my  sheep." 

I  have  always  thought  that  that  was  a  commandment  that  was 
just  as  pertinent,  and  belonged  just  as  much  to  us  as  it  belonged  to 
Peter.  It  was  an  everlasting  command  to  the  bearers  of  God's  Priest- 
hood. 

And  so  to  you  brethren  I  repeat  that  the  Lord  has  said  you  are 
to  feed  his  sheep.  What  are  you  going  to  feed  them?  Are  you  going 
to  feed  them — spiritually,  I  mean,  of  course — the  right  kind  of  food, 
or  are  you  going  to  feed  them  with  doubt,  with  rationalizing?  Are 
you  going  to  try  to  feed  them  on  mysteries?  Are  you  going  to  try 
to  weaken  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  regarding  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  by  yourselves  smoking  or  drinking?  Are  you  going  to  feed 
them  alleged  spiritual  materials  that  are  not  spiritual,  but  are  de- 
structive of  their  faith? 

Only  One  Way 

Here  I  want  to  return  to  my  theme  song,  unity.  The  Lord  has 
told  us,  in  the  books  what  are  his  commandments.  He  has 
laid  down  the  truth.  Read  the  books.  I  think  we  sadly  lack  the 
reading  of  the  scriptures.   They  are  wonderful  books.   You  can  find 


172  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Dag 

no  more  interesting  stories,  if  you  will,  than  you  find  in  the  Bible, 
and  none  that  are  more  interesting,  more  faith-promoting,  than  you 
find  in  the  history  of  our  Church.  Read  them.  You  learn  the  food 
you  should  feed,  and  then  feed  it. 

And  the  unity  comes  in  this:  that  there  are  not  two  ways,  there 
is  only  one  way.  We  should  always  feed  the  same  food  to  all  of  our 
youth. 

Brethren,  the  weight  of  our  responsibility  as  parents,  grand- 
parents, we  who  bear  the  Priesthood,  the  Priesthood  of  Almighty 
God — the  weight  of  that  responsibility,  if  we  really  sense  it,  is  almost 
crushing.  Yet,  Brethren,  if  we  shall  live  righteously  ourselves,  if  we 
shall  serve  the  Lord,  if  we  shall  keep  his  commandments,  he  will  give 
us  the  strength  and  power  to  live  as  we  should,  to  teach  as  we  should, 
to  lead  as  we  should,  and  we  shall  get  that  strength  and  that  power 
in  that  direction  in  no  other  way. 

Brethren,  I  plead  with  you,  magnify  your  Priesthood.  Remem- 
ber it  is  with  you  always,  never  do  anything  to  prostitute  it  or  pollute 
it.   Live  righteously  always. 

Testimony 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  Restored  Gospel,  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  was  a  prophet,  that 
those  who  have  followed  him,  down  to  and  including  our  present 
prophet,  seer  and  revelator,  are  prophets  of  the  Almighty.  It  is  our 
duty  as  the  Priesthood  so  to  recognize,  so  to  honor,  and  so  to  obey. 
May  the  Lord  help  us  so  to  do  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


The  Men's  Chorus  and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "I  Know  that  My  Redeemer  Lives." 

PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

It  seemed  to  me  that  I  could  feel  the  strength  of  your  testimonies 
in  that  glorious  song,  and  that  helps  to  fortify  me  for  my  attempt  to 
fill  this,  my  first  assignment  in  my  present  capacity,  to  address  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  of  the  Conference. 

I  feel  deeply  humble  in  this  undertaking,  and  I  sincerely  ask  for 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  attend  me  and  for  your  cooperation  and  faith 
and  prayers. 

I  understand  that  it  is  appropriate  and  desirable  at  this  meeting 
to  bring  before  the  Priesthood,  which  includes  our  presiding  officers 
in  stakes  and  wards  and  missions,  some  items  which  need  attention. 
So  with  your  indulgence  and  President  McKay's  permission,  I  will 
bring  before  you  a  few  items  first  affecting  our  missionary  service,  in 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  173 


the  hope  that  their  mention  here  may  be  helpful  to  the  carrying  for- 
ward of  our  missionary  procedure. 

These  items  are  not  necessarily  related. 

Interruptions  to  Missionary  Work 

We  would  appreciate  it,  and  we  speak  for  the  mission  presidents, 
if  you  would  discourage  parents,  other  relatives  and  friends,  visiting 
missionaries  in  the  missions.  We  have  had  a  large  number  of  instances 
brought  to  our  attention  where  serious  interruption  has  come  to  the 
missionary  work  by  reason  of  these  visits,  some  of  which  have  been 
very  protracted.  If  you  can  use  your  influence  and  give  the  informa- 
tion to  discourage  these  visits  and  ask  the  parents  and  their  other 
friends  to  let  these  missionaries  pursue  the  courses  which  have  been 
arranged  for  them,  they  will  contribute  very  greatly  to  our  work. 

We  have  had  numbers  of  requests  for  leaves  of  absence  for  mis- 
sionaries to  come  home  to  the  funerals  of  their  kinspeople.  We  ap- 
preciate the  fact  that  their  hearts  are  touched  on  these  sad  occasions, 
but  we  have  learned  that  very  frequently  the  visit  home  only  serves 
as  an  interruption  to  the  mission,  that  no  considerable  good  is  ac- 
complished, and  that  the  missionary  himself  is  often  disappointed  to 
think  that  he  left  the  mission  field,  his  companion,  and  his  assigned 
work  to  go  home  for  such  funerals. 

I  am  very  grateful  to  note  that  it  has  been  the  disposition  of 
most  of  our  missionaries  in  the  field  to  desire  to  stay  with  their  labors, 
and  they  themselves,  have,  in  a  number  of  instances,  discouraged 
their  kinspeople  from  requesting  their  return.  If  you  can  bring  this 
matter,  as  occasion  requires,  to  the  attention  of  the  families,  it  will 
serve  a  good  purpose  in  the  continuity  of  our  missionary  work. 

Calling  of  Seventies 

Now  we  are  confronted  with  some  new  questions  in  missionary 
work  on  responses  to  the  call  of  the"  seventy  to  go  into  the  mission 
field.  May  I  first  express  for  the  First  Presidency  appreciation  and 
gratitude  for  the  generous  response  coming  to  this  call.  We  have 
on  file  at  the  present  time  responses  from  many  stakes  of  the  Church, 
indicating  that  they  will  fully  comply  with  the  request,  and  that  their 
quotas  will  be  met.  This  is  encouraging. 

Importance  of  Good  Health 

There  are,  however,  brethren,  in  the  sending  of  these  older  men, 
some  safeguards  that  should  be  considered.  First,  the  question  of 
health.  Our  mission  presidents  have  advised  us  that  many  of  the 
older  men  have  not  been  able  to  endure  the  rigorous  work,  the  climate 
in  some  cases,  and  the  exactions  that  are  put  upon  our  missionaries. 
These  older  missionaries  are  often  asked  to  be  companions  to  young- 
er men.   You  heard  this  day  something  of  the  vigorous  work  that 


174  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Dag 

they  do,  the  long  hours  they  spend,  entailing  a  good  deal  of  walking 
and  very  strenuous  exercise. 

It  is  not  possible  in  many  instances  to  assign  older  men  to  the 
so-called  easier  jobs.  If  they  are  to  make  their  greatest  contribu- 
tion they  must  fit  into  our  missionary  program,  and  in  order  to  do 
that  they  must  have  good  health.  We  have  a  great  sympathy  for 
our  mission  presidents.  They  have  many  problems,  so  many,  indeed, 
that  a  great  part  of  the  time  their  attention  must  be  given  to  ex- 
ceptional cases,  so  that  we  ask  you  brethren  as  you  send  these  older 
men  to  us,  to  make  careful  inquiry  into  their  health.  Sometimes  our 
doctors'  examinations — we  are  generally  grateful  for  their  service — 
are  not  too  searching  and  we  find  when  they  get  to  the  mission  field, 
particularly  some  of  our  older  brethren,  have  some  weaknesses  that 
deter  them,  and  sometimes  preclude  them,  from  carrying  forward  their 
missionary  work. 

I  know  that  it  is  difficult  to  get  the  older  men  to  come,  but  we 
must  have  them  in  good  health.  There  may  be  a  few  exceptional 
cases  where  older  couples  with  a  car  can  do  some  special  service  in 
a  mission,  but  generally  speaking  the  seventies  must  enter  into  the 
work  with  the  same  vigor  and  we  hope  with  full  physical  equipment 
to  carry  forward  the  mission  program  as  the  younger  men. 

Welfare  of  Famiues 

We  have  discovered,  too,  in  recent  months  in  the  coming  of  these 
older  men,  that  very  considerable  apprehension  is  feared  for  the  wel- 
fare of  some  of  their  families.  It  is  reported  in  cases  that  come  to  us 
that  families  are  left  without  adequate  support,  and  we  have  a  few 
cases  where  couples  have  been  recommended  with  the  understanding 
that  they  would  leave  minor  children  with  relatives  or  friends  and 
without  parental  guidance. 

President  McKay  has  long  taken  the  position  that  that  is  not 
wisdom  to  call  parents  away  from  their  children,  even  for  this  great 
missionary  service,  so  before  both  of  the  parents  are  sent,  they  must 
always  be  free  from  the  parental  responsibility  that  goes  to  minors 
in  the  home.  Where  the  man  is  sent,  care  must  be  exercised  to  see 
that  his  family  may  have  proper  care  in  his  absence.  That  will  entail 
a  discernment  on  the  part  of  the  bishop,  and  he  should  exercise  cau- 
tion and  wisdom  before  recommending  a  man  whose  children  and 
family  may  suffer  too  greatly  in  his  absence. 

We  do  not  want  to  take  the  sacrifice  out  of  missionary  work. 
We  know  the  history  of  it  in  the  past,  and  we  know  that  it  does  entail, 
sometimes  great  deprivations  and  sacrifices,  but  we  want  to  use  wis- 
dom in  taking  men  away  from  their  families. 

Missionary  Expenses 

Another  item — it  is  a  part  of  our  traditional  missionary  custom 
for  the  family  to  pay  missionary  expense.  Exceptions  are  made.  There 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  175 


are  friends  sometimes  who  like  to  contribute.  Sometimes  the  ward, 
sometimes  the  quorum,  will  contribute.  But  it  is  deemed  preferable 
to  have  men  sent,  who,  either  by  themselves,  or  through  their  fami- 
lies, can  make  some  substantial  contribution  to  their  missionary 
labors. 

We  do  not  look  with  favor,  because  we  feel  that  it  lacks  in  certain 
material  elements  in  our  missionary  work,  upon  having  support  come 
wholly  either  from  the  quorum  or  from  the  ward,  or  from  outside 
sources.  It  is  true  that  there  are  many  generous  people  who  send 
funds  into  the  Church  itself,  to  be  helpful  to  missionaries  who  need 
help,  and  I  assure  you  that  it  is  a  great  satisfaction  to  have  at  our 
disposal  some  limited  funds  which  can  help  out  a  missionary  who 
hasn't  quite  been  able  to  finish,  whose  parents  have  perhaps  reached 
the  end  of  their  financial  resources.  But  in  the  main  it  is  preferable 
to  send  missionaries  who  can  contribute  substantially  to  their  own 
support. 

The  Language  of  Prayer 

We  have  discovered  in  the  mission  field  in  particular,  and  in 
other  places,  also  a  lack  of  proper  teaching  with  reference  to  prayer. 
I  know  that  I  myself  have  been  shocked  out  in  the  mission  field  as  I 
have  heard  missionaries  called  on  for  prayer  who  seem  to  have  had 
no  experience  or  training  whatever  in  the  use  of  the  language  of 
prayer. 

I  do  not  know  that  it  is  a  matter  of  vital  importance,  but  I  think, 
my  brethren,  that  in  the  quorums  and  in  the  classes,  you  would  do 
well,  as  in  the  homes  also,  to  teach  the  language  of  prayer — "Thee 
and  Thou,"  rather  than  "you."  It  always  seems  disappointing  to  me 
to  have  our  Father  in  Heaven,  our  Lord,  addressed  as  "you."  It  is 
surprising  how  much  we  see  of  this  in  the  mission  field  among  the 
young  men  who  come  to  serve  there.  I  think  you  might  make  note 
of  it,  and  avail  yourselves  of  any  opportunities  that  may  come  in 
order  to  teach  the  sacred  and  reverential  language  of  prayer. 

Support  for  Deseret  News 

That  is  all  that  I  had  for  you,  my  brethren,  with  reference  to  the 
missionary  items.  I  would  like  to  take  a  few  moments  to  mention  a 
few  other  items  of  general  import,  and  also  with  reference  to  our 
Priesthood  work.  I  am  not  going  to  preach  about  it,  but  I  know 
that  Brother  Petersen  will  not  object  if  I  say  to  you  that  I  think  that 
the  loyalty  of  this  Priesthood  can  well  be  shown  in  supporting  the 
official  organ  of  this  Church,  the  Deseret  News.  I  don't  think  that  we 
ought  to  have  to  appeal  for  your  support  in  that  respect. 

We  need  an  organ  for  the  Church,  of  course  we  do,  and  a  good 
one.  We  have  one.  Why  should  Latter-day  Saints  forsake  that 
paper  and  give  help  to  competition?  I  believe  we  can  seriously  think 
over  that  matter.   Personally,  I  love  the  paper.   My  grandfather  was 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


its  first  editor.  I  am  proud  of  it,  and  proud  of  its  history.  I  appeal 
for  your  support  for  it. 


Now,  brethren,  I  have  taken  occasion  on  times  before,  and  there 
isn't  time  now,  to  elaborate  much,  to  make  as  earnest  an  appeal  as 
I  know  how  to  make  to  the  elders  of  this  Church  who  have  been 
neglectful  and  careless,  and  who  have  set  themselves  in  process  of 
losing  that  Priesthood  of  which  President  Clark  has  so  impressively 
spoken. 

I  do  not  suppose  that  I  can  appeal  to  too  many  of  them  here 
tonight.  They  are  probably  not  here.  They  are  in  your  quorums. 
Their  presidencies  are  here,  at  least  in  large  measure.  Brethren,  will 
you  obey  the  injunction  given  by  President  Clark  to  go  out  for  these 
lost  sheep  and  bring  them  in,  and  succor  them,  encourage  them,  and 
if  necessary,  rebuke  them  in  order  to  bring  them  to  a  realization  of 
what  they  are  losing. 

Some  years  ago  I  took  the  liberty  of  sounding  a  little  slogan  to 
our  brethren,  as  I  went  around  the  Church,  in  the  care  of  these  people. 
It  was  a  very  simple  thing.  I  do  not  know  whether  you  will  agree  with 
it  or  not.  "If  they  don't  come  to  us,  we  will  go  to  them."  I  put  that 
forward  once,  and  a  young  elders'  quorum  president  said,  "I  don't 
believe  it."  He  said,  "We  provide  the  quorum  facilities  for  them. 
If  they  don't  come  it  is  their  own  fault." 

Of  course  it  was  not  long  before  he  changed  his  mind  when  we 
reminded  him  that  that  was  not  the  missionary  spirit.  I  think  we 
can't  go  to  any  who  need  our  help  more  than  to  these  brethren  who 
have  been  careless  and  neglectful  about  their  Priesthood. 

I  sincerely  hope  that  in  the  administration  of  the  quorums  you 
are  emphasizing  the  fraternal  aspects  of  these  great  institutions.  I 
have  long  been  persuaded  that  these  quorums  ought  to  be  our  clubs. 
They  ought  to  be  the  places  where  we  find  our  dearest  associations, 
and  we  need  not  look  far  beyond  them  for  that  fraternity  which  we 
all  crave.   The  fraternity  of  the  Priesthood  in  our  own  quorums! 


In  your  visits  to  these  people,  I  am  sure  that  you  need  to  exercise 
great  discretion  and  judgment.  I  wish  all  of  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood— perhaps  many  of  them  did  last  night — might  have  seen  the 
demonstration  in  the  bishops'  meeting  which  was  held  on  this  stand 
last  evening.  There  were  some  very  excellent  constructive  sugges- 
tions which  were  given. 

I  believe,  my  brethren,  that  you  will  make  far  more  progress  in 
frankness  than  in  attempting  to  beat  about  the  bush  with  these  men. 
I  believe  if  you  have  the  proper  spirit  you  can  go  to  them  and  talk 
about  their  condition,  and  their  needs  without  spending  time  in  visits 
talking  about  the  weather  and  politics  and  current  affairs. 


Appeal  to  Elders 


Need  for  Effective  Visiting 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  177 


One  of  the  most  successful  missionaries  that  I  ever  knew,  when 
I  asked  him  what  the  elements  of  his  success  were,  said,  among  other 
things,  that  he  always  told  people  on  whom  he  called  that  he  never 
had  time  to  talk  anything  else  but  the  Gospel,  and  be  begged  them 
to  excuse  him  from  any  other  discussion. 

I  am  persuaded  that  if  we  went  to  our  members  and  talked  to 
them  about  their  faith,  and  the  things  they  were  losing,  and  the 
things  the  quorum  and  the  Church  hold  out  for  them,  that  we  would 
make  more  progress  in  their  reformation.  It  requires  some  courage, 
it  requires  some  tact,  and  most  of  all  it  requires  love.  They  say  love 
is,  in  the  end,  the  only  irresistible  force  in  the  world,  and  if  we  have 
love  sufficient,  and  friendship,  and  these  brethren  know  our  love  for 
them,  I  think  we  can  approach  them  and  speak  frankly  to  them,  and 
thus  help  them.  I  sincerely  trust  that  we  may. 

Nearly  all  of  these  men  are  good  at  heart,  but  careless.  There 
are  a  few  that  are  mean.  Perhaps  they  deserve  rebuke,  and  rebuke 
might  be  the  best  means  of  bringing  them  to  an  understanding  of 
their  position,  but  remember  how  that  rebuke  has  to  be  made,  "re- 
proving betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost."  That  is  the  only  rebuke  that  is  permissible  under  the  con- 
stitution of  the  Priesthood. 

Priesthood  Divine 

Now,  my  brethren,  I  love  this  Holy  Priesthood.  I  know  that  it 
is  genuine.  Every  interpretive  sense  that  the  Lord  has  given  me 
testifies  to  me  that  it  is  divine.  I  have  felt  its  influence  as  I  have  ad- 
ministered in  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel.  I  have  felt  its  stimula- 
tion. I  have  felt  an  essence  pass  from  me  in  administering  to  the 
Saints  that  I  know  was  of  divine  origin.  I  have  seen  its  results. 
I  know  that  it  is  divine.  I  know  that  it  is  authentic  Its  source  is  not 
far  removed  from  us — into  the  area  of  dim  antiquity.  We  do  not 
have  to  debate  about  its  origin.  Why,  it  is  proximate  to  us. 

A  man  today  said  that  I  ordained  him  a  High  Priest  some  time 
ago,  and  asked  if  I  had  a  card  to  give  him  the  derivation  of  my  Priest- 
hood. I  said,  "No,  I  don't  have  a  card  for  you,  but  I  think  you  can 
remember  it — four  steps.  I  was  ordained  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  He  was  ordained  by  President  Brigham  Young.  Brigham 
Young  was  ordained  by  the  three  witnesses,  one  of  whom  was  Oliver 
Cowdery,  who  with  Joseph  was  ordained  by  angelic  ministers." 

,  That  is  how  close  it  is  to  us.  There  is  no  debate  about  it.  There 
is  no  question  about  the  authenticity  of  this  great  power.  We  are 
fortunate  indeed  not  to  have  to  search  the  records  of  ancient  days  in 
order  to  establish  this  divine  authority,  upon  which  the  Church  and 
Kingdom  of  God  is  founded. 

Gratitude  for  Associations 

I  express  my  gratitude  for  it,  and  I  express  my  gratitude  for  my 


178  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  6  Second  Day 

association  with  my  brethren  of  the  Priesthood.  I  have  had  a  most  im- 
pressive experience  in  the  last  six  months.  I  had  thought  I  had  always 
been  close  to  my  brethren,  but  I  found  that  I  had  never  been  into  the 
full  confidence  of  this  wonderful  relation  until  I  came  to  be  associated 
with  my  beloved  President,  and  President  Clark, — without  any  reser- 
vations, without  a  necessity  of  concealing  private  feelings,  but  with 
a  freedom  of  thought  and  expression  welcomed  by  all,  that  to  my 
thinking,  is  the  badge  of  true  friendship,  brotherhood  and  under- 
standing. 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  somehow,  in  his  providence,  I  have  been 
brought  to  that  great  blessing,  and  I  ask  the  Lord  to  help  me  that 
I  may  be  in  a  measure  worthy  of  it.  And  I  ask  the  Lord  to  bless  every 
one  of  you,  my  brethren,  that  each  may  magnify  the  sacred  calling 
that  the  Lord  has  vouchsafed  to  him. 

I  do  so  humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

My  esteemed  fellow  workers  in  the  Priesthood: 
My  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude  tonight,  as  it  has  been  through- 
out this  conference,  for  the  knowledge  I  am  sure  we  all  have  that 
God  is  with  this  people.  That  expression  of  brotherhood,  love,  just 
given  by  Brother  Stephen  L  Richards  is  akin,  indeed  it  is  identical, 
with  the  spirit  that  prompted  the  Apostle  of  old  to  say,  "I  know 
that  I  have  passed  from  death  unto  life  because  I  love  the  brethren." 

That  is  the  sublime  feeling  which  every  member  holding  the 
Priesthood  may  experience  if  he  will  do  his  duty  and  live  uprightly 
before  the  Lord. 

Unbecoming  Games 

I  have  in  mind  only  one  or  two  items  to  give  at  the  conclusion 
of  this  impressive  conference.  One  that  I  mention  by  way  of  cau- 
ton  is  that  in  your  carnivals  that  you  hold  in  order  to  raise  money 
for  building  purposes,  you  avoid  those  games  which  are  unbecom- 
ing, or  that  will  cast  in  any  way  reflection  upon  our  young  girls 
or  men  who  hold  the  Priesthood.  We  know  the  difficulties  that 
you  have  to  raise  fifty  per  cent  of  the  cost  of  these  edifices,  and  we 
commend  you  highly,  and  our  sisters,  for  the  effort  you  put  forth. 
But  there  are  some  games  which  are  carried  on  in  carnivals  outside 
the  Church  which  are  unbecoming  the  recreation  furnished  by  the 
Church  officers. 

One  I  will  name  is  a  feature  in  which  young  Beehive  Girls 
come  out  in  public  in  bathing  suits,  sit  on  a  spring  board  before 
young  men  who  throw  balls  to  hit  a  certain  spot  which  will  loosen 
the  spring-board,  and  cause  the  young  girl  to  drop  into  a  tank  of 
water. 

I  have  seen  colored  and  white  men  do  that  for  so  much  money, 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


179 


but  let  us  not  have  our  young  girls  do  it,  nor  men  who  hold  the 
leadership  in  the  Priesthood. 

Fellowship  in  the  Priesthood 

Now,  there  are  three  other  items  which  I  will  name,  just  briefly 
I  hope,  and  I  will  illustrate  each  by  practical  experiences.  The 
first  is  the  value  of  companionship  in  quorums,  already  mentioned 
by  my  counselors. 

One  of  the  most  pleasing  experiences  of  this  great  conference 
was  meeting  a  bishop  who  came  to  the  stand  and  said,  "I  am  here 
with  some  of  my  deacons,  whom  I  should  like  to  have  the  privilege 
of  meeting  you."  A  true  leader  accompanying  his  quorum  boys  to 
conference! 

Fellowship  in  the  Priesthood!  If  we  can  get  the  bishops  to 
fellowship  the  priests  in  every  ward,  and  in  some  way,  at  oppor- 
tunities favorable,  meet  those  young  men  and  young  women  of  cor- 
responding age  in  some  social  or  groups  or  meetings,  and  win  their 
admiration  and  confidence,  we  can  avoid  some  unpleasant  things 
which  are  occurring  in  our  towns.  For  those  priests  and  girls  de- 
termine largely  the  moral  atmosphere  of  your  town.  You  bishops 
are  the  leaders.  Your  counselors  can  aid  you  in  associating  with 
the  teachers  and  the  deacons. 

This  companionship  applies  also  to  Elders. 

There  are  many  ways  in  which  we  can  get  these  indifferent 
elders  together  without  inviting  them  to  do  things  which  are  diffi- 
cult. Some  of  them  do  not  like  to  pray.  They  hesitate  about  stand- 
ing in  public  to  preach,  and  some  of  them  would  rather  go  fishing 
or  playing  golf  on  Sunday  than  attend  meeting.  But,  not  one  of 
those  indifferent  elders  will  refuse  an  invitation,  for  example,  to 
come  to  a  funeral  of  one  of  the  townsfolk,  or  one  o£  their  members, 
or  of  one  of  their  members'  wives,  and  if  you  will  come  as  a  quorum 
and  sit  together  as  a  quorum,  there  is  one  means  of  fellowship. 
Our  High  Priests  are  doing  it  more  than  Seventies  or  Elders. 

I  have  attended  a  number  of  funerals  where  I  have  seen  reserved 
seats  for  High  Priests,  in  paying  respect  to  a  departed  brother. 
There  is  group  fellowship. 

Again  these  indifferent  men  will  come  to  your  quorum  socials. 
Make  those  socials  of  a  high  order,  and  thus  you  will  come  in  per- 
sonal contact  with  them. 

We  must  be  mutually  helpful.  This  world  would  not  exist  if 
it  were  not  for  the  mutual  aid  we  give  one  another  from  the  time 
we  are  born  until  we  are  laid  away. 

Reverence 

A  second  principle  to  which  I  wish  to  refer  is  reverence.  I 
have  spoken  upon  this  several  times,  and  intend  to  continue  to  speak 
upon  it,  because  I  look  upon  reverence  as  one  of  the  highest  qualities 


180  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Dai/ 

of  the  soul.  An  irreverent  man  is  not  a  believing  man.  I  think  a 
man  cannot  testify  of  his  knowledge  of  the  existence  of  God  and 
take  God's  name  in  vain.  He  can  do  it  by  words,  but  as  the  old 
king  in  "Hamlet,"  his  words  will  fly  up,  but  his  thoughts  remain 
below. 

I  was  deeply  impressed  with  the  lesson  that  President  George 
Q.  Morris  taught  his  missionaries  in  the  Sacred  Grove.  They  have 
an  entrance  there  now,  a  sort  of  fence  and  a  gate  leading  into  the 
sacred  spot,  where  they  hold  the  service. 

There  as  you  enter  the  gate  is  a  sign,  "Quiet  Please."  I  wish 
everybody  in  the  Church  could  experience  that  quiet  attitude  of 
several  hundred  missionaries  in  that  Sacred  Grove,  and  as  soon  as 
the  Amen  of  the  benediction  was  given,  these  elders  retired  with- 
out consultation,  without  shaking  hands,  to  the  outside  part  of  the 
grove. 

In  our  meeting  houses  today  we  have  reverence  just  as  soon 
as  the  hour  comes  for  worship,  but  in  Sunday  Schools  particularly, 
at  the  change  of  classes  there  is  a  hub-bub.  That  is  not  educative 
to  our  children.  They  have  done  away  with  the  marching  we  used 
to  have  when  I  was  in  the  Sunday  School  work  in  Weber.  They 
now  think  it  undignified  for  older  persons  to  march. 

Well,  Superintendents,  you  may  do  this,  at  least — when  you 
separate  for  class  work,  let  a  class  rise  and  pass  out  to  the  room, 
and  then  another  class  follow,  without  this  careless,  sometimes 
boisterous  attitude  of  everybody's  mingling  and  talking  as  he  goes 
to  his  class. 

Reverence  indicates  high  culture,  and  true  faith  in  deity  and 
in  his  righteousness.. 

Kindness  to  Animals 

The  third  is  kindness.  The  first  line  in  what  is  now  known  as 
the  "Psalm  of  Love"  is  this:  "Love  suffereth  long  and  is  kind." 

A  true  Latter-day  Saint  is  kind  to  animals,  is  kind  to  every 
created  thing,  for  God  has  created  all.  He  is  right,  the  author  of 
the  "Ancient  Mariner"  when  he  deplores  the  killing  of  the  albatross, 
when  he  wrote  these  lines: 

"He  prayeth  best  who  loveth  best  all  things  both  great  and 
small, 

For  the  dear  God  who  loveth  us,  he  made  and  loveth  all." 

I  am  mentioning  this  because  I  have  seen,  in  my  travels,  such 
cruelty  in  the  world,  particularly  in  the  Near  East.  I  was  touched 
with  the  treatment  that  those  people  gave,  and  probably  now  give, 
the  humble  little  donkey.  Every  caravan  is  led  by  that  poor,  humble 
creature,  carrying  a  heavier  load  than  his  own  weight,  it  seemed 
sometimes.  Often  the  driver,  the  leader  of  those  camels,  if  he  be- 
came weary  would  climb  on  top  of  the  load  the  donkey  was  car- 
rying.  As  you  drive  along  those  highways,  on  the  roads  you  would 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  181 


see  the  carcasses  of  the  donkeys  that  walked  and  carried,  struggled 
and  staggered  until  they  fell.  They  were  unloaded  and  left  for 
their  bones  to  bleach  on  the  side  of  the  highway. 

Camels,  if  a  bit  obstreperous,  would  have  steel  prongs  piercing 
the  sides  of  their  jaws.  If  they  happened  to  pull  back,  the  clamp 
would  close  and  those  prongs  penetrate  not  only  the  skin  but  the 
flesh  as  well. 

However,  we  need  not  go  to  the  Near  East  to  see  cruelty  to 
animals.  We  see  it  around  here  if  we  but  open  our  eyes.  It  is  a 
good  thing  to  teach  our  boys  to  be  kind.  A  man  who  was  working 
for  me  once  on  the  farm  came  home  about  sundown,  and  said,  "I 
have  just  killed  a  porcupine  over  there." 

"I  said,  "Why  did  you  kill  it?" 

"Oh,"  he  said,  "just  for  fun."  And  I  said,  "Did  you  kill  it  or  is 
it  over  there  suffering?" 

"Oh,  I  killed  it."  Well,  I  wondered,  so  I  just  took  time  to 
cross  those  two  creeks  and  go  over  to  the  little  hill.  He  had  not 
killed  it.  The  poor  creature  was  just  stunned,  its  head  was  beaten, 
and  he  was  struggling.  What  fun  can  there  be  in  treating  dumb 
animals  in  that  cruel  way! 

Kindness  to  Wives 

But  I  mention  this  now,  because  I  think  we  are  cruel  to  our 
wives.  I  have  here  two  letters,  one  anonymous,  another  signed  by 
a  woman.  They  are  asking  "What  shall  we  do?  Our  husbands 
are  cruel  to  us." 

Says  one,  "My  husband  has  a  terrible  temper.  He  comes  home 
and  scolds  the  children.  He  is  cruel  to  me.  At  first  he  seemed  to 
be  a  good,  loving  husband,  but  when  my  first  baby  was  born,  then 
was  born  my  troubles." 

Brother  Bowen  is  aiding  greatly  in  taking  care  of  appeals  for 
cancellations  of  sealings.  I  am  grieved,  brethren,  I  say  "I"  because 
the  responsibility  of  cancelling  those  sealings  rests  upon  the  one 
who  holds  that  key.  I  am  grieved  indeed  to  note  in  those  appeals 
the  number  of  instances  which  indicate  that  some  husbands  treat 
their  wives  cruelly. 

I  cannot  imagine  a  man's  being  cruel  to  a  woman.  I  cannot 
imagine  her  so  conducting  herself  as  to  merit  such  treatment.  Per- 
haps there  are  women  in  the  world  who  exasperate  their  husbands 
but  no  man  is  justified  in  resorting  to  physical  force  or  in  exploding 
his  feelings  in  profanity.  There  are  men,  undoubtedly,  in  the 
world  who  are  thus  beastly,  but  no  man  who  holds  the  Priesthood 
of  God  should  so  debase  himself. 

Some  of  us  are  now  past  the  threescore  and  ten.  We  can  look 
back  over  the  short  life,  and  it  does  seem  short,  and  treasure  those 
things  which  seem  most  precious.  Tonight,  one  of  those  things, 
one  of  the  most  precious  possessions  is  my  memory  of  a  home  in 


182  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Dan 

which  love  was  supreme,  in  which  I  cannot  recall  ever  a  cross 
word  having  passed  between  father  and  mother.  We  owe  that 
blessing  to  our  children. 

"Love  suffereth  long  and  is  kind." 

The  spirit  of  kindness  is  as  enduring  as  love  itself.  Let  us  go 
home,  and  if  we  have  been  cruel,  either  by  treating  our  wives  with 
indifference,  or  by  scolding,  or  loud  talking,  if  we  have  been 
cruel  to  our  children  by  neglect,  or  by  striking  them,  let  us  see  if 
we  cannot  repent  and  look  introspectively  and  see  whether  or  not 
we  are  not  to  blame  for  some  of  the  conditions  that  arouse  these 
passions. 

Childhood  Experience 

Now,  brethren,  I  wish  to  bear  you  a  testimony  which  I  think  I 
have  never  before  given  in  public.  Since  childhood  it  has  been 
very  easy  for  me  to  believe  in  the  reality  of  the  visions  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  What  I  am  going  to  say  may  seem  very 
simple  to  you,  but  to  me  it  is  a  heart  petal. 

When  a  very  young  child  in  the  home  of  my  youth,  I  was 
fearful  at  night.  I  traced  it  back  to  a  vivid  dream  in  which  two 
Indians  came  into  the  yard.  I  ran  to  the  house  for  protection,  and 
one  of  them  shot  an  arrow  and  hit  me  in  the  back.  Only  a  dream, 
but  I  felt  that  blow,  and  I  was  very  much  frightened,  for  in  the 
dream  they  entered,  one  a  tall  one,  and  a  smaller  one,  and  sneered 
and  frightened  mother. 

I  never  got  over  it.  Adding  to  that  were  the  fears  of  mother, 
for  when  father  was  away  with  the  herd  or  on  some  mission,  mother 
would  never  retire  without  looking  under  the  bed,  so  burglars  or 
men  who  might  enter  the  house  and  try  to  take  advantage  of  mother 
and  the  young  children  were  real  to  me. 

Whatever  the  conditions,  I  was  very  much  frightened.  One 
night  I  could  not  sleep,  and  I  fancied  I  heard  noises  around  the 
house.  Mother  was  away  in  another  room.  Thomas  E.  by  my  side 
was  sleeping  soundly.  I  became  terribly  wrought  in  my  feeling, 
and  I  decided  to  pray  as  my  parents  had  taught  me. 

I  thought  I  could  pray  only  by  getting  out  of  bed  and  kneeling, 
and  that  was  a  terrible  test.  But  I  did  finally  bring  myself  to  get 
out  of  bed  and  kneel  and  pray  to  God  to  protect  mother  and  the 
family.  And  a  voice  as  clearly  to  me  as  mine  is  to  you,  said,  "Don't 
be  afraid.  Nothing  will  hurt  you."  Where  it  came  from,  what  it 
was,  I  am  not  saying.  You  may  judge.  To  me  it  was  a  direct  answer, 
and  there  came  an  assurance  that  I  should  never  be  hurt  in  bed 
at  night. 

Easy  to  Believe 

I  say  it  has  been  easy  for  me  to  understand  and  believe  the 
reality  of  the  visions  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  It  was  easy  for  me  in 
youth  to  accept  his  vision,  the  appearance  of  God  the  Father  and 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  183 


his  Son,  Jesus  Christ  to  the  boy  praying.  I  thought  of  nothing  else. 
Of  course  that  is  real.  It  was  easy  for  me  to  believe  that  Moroni 
came  to  him  there  in  the  room.  Heavenly  beings  were  real  from 
my  babyhood  on,  and  as  years  came  those  impressions  strengthened 
by  reason  and  strengthened  by  the  inspiration  of  God  directly  to 
my  soul. 

I  know  that  those  visions  were  real,  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  when  we  say  this  it  means  that  I  know 
that  Jesus  lives,  that  Christ  is  our  Redeemer  and  that  this  is  his 
Church.  We  are  merely  his  representatives.  When  we  accept  that, 
then  the  reality  of  God  the  Father,  Father  of  our  spirits,  is  easy 
to  accept. 

These  things  being  real,  brethren,  we  cannot  do  anything  else 
but  try  our  utmost  to  do  what  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer,  asks  us 
to  do,  for  he  has  given  us  the  Gospel  that  bears  his  name,  and  in 
the  words  of  Peter,  "There  is  none  other  name  given  under  heaven 
whereby  we  must  be  saved." 

God  bless  you.  With  all  my  heart  I  bless  you,  and  pray  that 
peace  and  love  and  kindness  will  abide  not  only  in  your  hearts, 
but  in  your  homes,  that  your  wives,  our  wives  and  our  children  may 
have  memories  sweet  of  a  home  in  which  God  was  pleased  to  dwell. 

May  this  be  our  lot,  our  experience,  throughout  the  Church  in 
all  the  world,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay; 

"Jesus,  Lover  of  My  Soul"  will  now  be  sung  by  the  Men's 
Chorus,  following  which  Elder  Eldred  L.  Waldron,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Hawaiian  Mission,  will  offer  the  closing  prayer,  and  this 
conference  will  be  adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow. 

We  will  have  the  Church  of  the  Air  at  eight  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning,  and  we  are  to  be  there  at  ten  minutes  to  eight. 

There  are  present,  as  nearly  as  can  be  counted,  12,908  men 
holding  the  priesthood,  nearly  13,000.  I  believe  that  is  the  largest 
attendance  in  the  history  of  the  Church.  That  includes  the  three 
places,  the  Tabernacle,  Barratt  Hall,  and  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  440 
on  the  grounds  who  could  not  get  in. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "Jesus, 
Lover  of  My  Soul,"  after  which  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Eldred  L.  Waldron,  formerly  president  of  the  Hawaiian 
Mission. 


The  congregational  singing  of  the  Conference  was  directed  by 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant 
Conductor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 


184  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  . 

Saturday.  October  6  Second  Day 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  was  in  attendance  at  the  Sun- 
day sessions  and  presented  musical  numbers  at  those  meetings, 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  the  singing  of  the  Choir. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus,  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Conductor,  furnished  the  choral  music  for  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  Saturday  evening,  October  6. 

The  Choir  singing  for  the  Friday  morning  and  afternoon  ses- 
sions, October  5,  was  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  with 
Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conducting;  Frank  W.  Asper  at 
the  organ. 

The  singing  at  the  Saturday  morning  session  was  by  the  con- 
gregation, J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  and  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ.  The  singing  at  the  Saturday  afternoon  session 
was  also  by  the  congregation.  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  led  the 
singing  at  this  meeting,  and  Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant  Tabernacle 
organist  was  at  the  console. 

The  Choir  singing  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast 
Sunday  morning  9:00  to  9:30,  as  also  that  for  the  Church  of  the  Air 
broadcast  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Frank  W.  Asper 
was  at  the  Organ,  and  the  spoken  word  was  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  Organ  were  played 
by  Alexander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Roy  M.  Darley. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


INDEX 


Aid,  Henry    46 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph   3,  49 

Authorities  and  Officers  present   1,  2 

Authorities  and  Officers  sustained    53 

Barker,  James  L.     44 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft     153 

Richness  of  Conference  153,  Gratitude  for  the  Brethren  154,  Street 
Meeting  Experience  154,  Support  for  One  Another  155,  Support  of 
Wives  156,  Resolution  to  Heed  Counsel  156. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E   40 

Forgiveness  41,  Love  of  Neighbor  42,  Forgive  and  Be  Forgiven 
43,  Doers  of  the  Word  43. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers  and  Organizations    50 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   106 

Church  of  the  Air   100 

Christiansen,  EIRay  L    74 

Willingness  to  Serve  74,  Love  for  General  Authorities  75,  Testi- 
mony 75,  Stake  Work  76. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.    53 

Sustaining  of  Church  Authorities  and  Officers. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   56 

Absence  Noted  56,  The  Family  Relationship  56,  Responsibility  of 
Parents  57,  The  Mother's  Part  58,  Not  Beyond  Temptation  59, 
A  Light  to  Guide  59. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  169 

Power  of  Priesthood  169,  An  Everlasting  Endowment  169,  Chastity 
to  be  guarded  170,  Incident  in  Life  of  Savior  170,  Charge  to  Peter 
171,  Only  One  Way  171,  Testimony  172. 

Cowley,  Elder  Matthew   101 

"Man  Shall  Not  Live  by  Bread  Alone"  101,  Worth  of  the  Soul  102, 
Happiness  in  Word  of  God  102,  Gold  Without  God  103,  National 
Spiritual  Needs  103,  Lessons  of  History  104,  Lincoln's  Proclamation 
104,  Present  Spiritual  Needs  105,  Origin  of  American  System  105, 
The  Word  of  God  106. 

Deaths    52 

Ellsworth,  Elder  German  E.    95 


186  INDEX 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   20 

Evidence  of  Faith  21,  Temple  Square  Activities  21,  Church  affili- 
ations 22,  Obligations  to  Children  22,  A  Peculiar  People  22. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  100 

Church  of  the  Air  100. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.  106 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  106,  Spoken  Word  107. 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    24 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting    3 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1,  2 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    53 

General  Priesthood  Meeting   162 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  H  140 

Preaching  of  Gospel  140,  False  Teachings  140,  Gospel  Restored 
141,  Commandment  in  Present  Day  141,  Assignment  of  the  Twelve 
141,  Others  Called  142,  Living  of  Gospel  142,  Missionary  Assign- 
ment 143,  The  Thing  of  Most  Worth  144,  Encouragement  of 
Seventies  144,  Stake  Missionary  Program   145,  Testimony  145. 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B.   129 

Spirit  of  Conference  129,  Inspiration  of  Temple  Square  129,  Re- 
pentance of  Wrongdoings  130,  Importance  of  Faith  131,  Letter 
from  Korea  131,  Testimony  132. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R.   31 

Twenty  Years'  Service  31,  Failure  to  Apply  Gospel  31,  The 
World's  Need  32,  The  Place  to  Begin  32,  Marriage  for  Eternity 
33,  Parents  to  Set  Example  34,  Daily  Repentance  34. 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   82 

New  Church  Officers  83,  "Prove  them  Herewith"  84,  Spirit  Giveth 
Life  84,  The  Word  of  Wisdom  85,  Obedience  Brings  Blessings  86, 
Law  of  the  Fast  87,  The  Mansion  87,  Gratitude  for  Unselfishness  90. 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A.    91 

George  Q.  Morris  91,  World  Jamboree  of  Boy  Scouts  91,  Friend- 
ship and  Brotherhood  92,  Spirituality  92,  Latter-day  Saint  Gather- 
ing 92. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B    25 

An  Abiding  Testimony  25,  Parable  of  the  Ten  Virgins  26,  Modern 
Reference  26,  Process  of  Preparation  27,  A  Voice  of  Warning  27, 
Warning  of  President  Smith  28,  Obligation  to  Follow  Counsel  29, 
"A  Lamp  to  Your  Feet"  30. 

Longden,  Elder  John   77 

Vote  of  Confidence  77,  Testimony  78,  Gratitude  for  Blessings  78, 
Experience  at  School  79. 


INDEX  187 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R.  146 

Salvation  Centered  in  Christ  146,  Acceptance  of  Prophets  147, 
Gospel  Dispensations  147,  Vision  of  Abraham  148,  Place  of  Joseph 
Smith  149,  Personal  Experience  149. 

McKay,  President  David  0   3, 

16,  23,  24,  43,  46,  48,  49,  52,  60,  63,  68,  72,  73,  74,  77,  79, 
99,  100,  108,  133,  134,  183 

McKay,  President  David  0   4 


Growth  and  Progress  of  Church  4,  Uprightness  of  Servicemen  4, 
Subversive  Teachings  5,  Message  to  Youth  5,  Obedience  Brings 
Blessings  6,  Need  for  Right  Thinking  6,  Example  from  Charles 
Dickens  7,  The  Great  Stone  Face  7,  Disobedience  Brings  Retribution 
8,  Prostitution  of  Love  8,  Factors  in  Influencing  Youth  9,  The  Home 
10,  Undermining  Forces  10,  Need  for  Integrity  11. 


McKay,  President  David  O.  157 

Appreciation  Expressed  157,  "True  Nobility"  158,  Experience 
of  Paul  159,  Divine  Interest  in  Church  160,  Importance  of  the 
Home  160,  Priesthood  Activity  161,  Loyalty  to  Country  161. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   178 

Unbecoming  Games  178,  Fellowship  in  the  Priesthood  179,  Reverence 
179,  Kindness  to  Animals  180,  Kindness  to  Wives  181,  Childhood 
Experiences  181,  Easy  to  Believe  182. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E.    16 

Power  of  Prayer  16,  Prayer  in  the  Home  17,  Expressing  Appre- 
ciation 18,  Appreciation  Brings  Love  19,  Testimony  19. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.   134 

The  Word  of  Wisdom  135,  Facts  about  Tobacco  135,  Effects  of 
Alcohol  136,  Cause  of  Highway  Accidents  137,  Social  and  Spiritual 
Effects  137,  First  Presidency  Message  137,  Danger  of  Moderate 
Drinking  138,  The  Problem  of  Drink  138,  Evils  of  Indulgence  139. 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D   12 

Divinity  of  the  Work  12,  Obedience  to  Law  12,  No  Special 
Privileges  13,  Strict  Conformity  14,  Honesty  in  Daily  Lives  15. 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E.    19 

Incident  of  Healing  20,  A  True  Servant  20. 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    53 

Priesthood  Meeting — General  162 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand   162 

A  Calling  of  Service  162,  Knowledge  of  Gospel  163,  Advice  to 
Missionary  163,  Story  of  Prophet  Joseph  164,  Missionary  Experience 
165,  Strength  of  the  Mormon  Position  165,  Experience  in  Sunday 
School  166,  Marriages  out  of  the  Church  166,  Testimony  of  the 
Spirit  167,  Responsibility  of  Priesthood  168. 

Richards,  Elder  Stayner    68 

Gratitude  for  Appointment  68,  Missionary  Labors  68,  Generous 
Support  69,  Missionary  Plan  70,  Faithfulness  of  Missionaries  70, 
Efforts  Rewarded  71,  The  Lord's  Blessing  72. 


188  INDEX 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L   109 

Challenging  Call  109,  Zion  and  the  World  110,  A  Principle  of 
Strength  110,  Attacks  Upon  the  Home  111,  Curtailment  of  Families 
112,  Sympathy  for  Parents  113,  Attack  on  Moral  Purity  113,  Criti- 
cism of  Unity  114,  Fairness  in  Political  Views  115,  Threat  of  In- 
difference 115,  Disparagement  of  Orthodoxy  116,  Attacks  on  Joseph 
Smith  117,  Testimony  of  Divine  Mission  118,  Preservation  of  Zion 
118. 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L   172 

Interruptions  to  Missionary  Work  173,  Calling  of  Seventies  173, 
Importance  of  Good  Health  173,  Welfare  of  Families  174,  Mission- 
ary Expenses  174,  The  Language  of  Prayer  175,  Support  for 
Deseret  News  175,  Appeal  to  Elders  176,  Need  for  Effective  Visit- 
ing 176,  Priesthood  Divine  177,  Gratitude  for  Associations  177. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G.    60 

Respect  for  Office  60,  Events  in  Life  of  Redeemer  60,  Love  for  the 
Brethren  61,  Gratitude  for  Heritage  63,  Loyalty  of  Members  63. 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    73 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting    49 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G.    79 

The  Art  of  Living  80,  Exemplars  of  Righteousness  81,  Power  in 
Testimonies  81,  The  Spirit  Within  82. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  118 

Misunderstanding  of  Scriptures  118,  Marriage  an  Eternal  Principle 
119,  Marriage  by  Divine  Commandment  120,  Covenants  and 
Obligations  120,  Reason  for  Divorce  121. 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   93 

Unselfish  Service  94,  A  Great  Church  94,  Work  to  Go  Forward  95. 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L  122 

Fasting  and  Prayer  122,  Observance  Brings  Blessings  123,  Sons  of 
Mosiah  123,  Missionary  Observance  124,  Calling  of  Brethren  124, 
Need  for  Spiritual  Power  124,  City  of  Nineveh  125,  Example  of 
Nephites  126. 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers   53 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  100 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   133 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting  108 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.    2 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L.   34 

Principle  of  Belief  35,  Steppingstone  to  Faith  36,  The  Privilege  of 
Work  36,  Genealogical  Work  37,  Opportunities  for  Service  37, 
Welfare  Program  37,  St.  George  Tabernacle  38,  Faith  and  Works 
39,  Lincoln's  Faith  39,  Christianity  in  Action  40. 


INDEX  189 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E.  150 

Marion  G.  Romney  150,  Lessons  from  Missionaries  150,  Mission- 
ary Sacrifices  151,  Present-day  Faith  152,  Evidence  Builds  Testi- 
monies 152. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    64 

Lack  of  Wisdom  64,  Search  for  Truth  64,  Education  of  Youth  65, 
Need  for  Teachers  65,  Paul's  Search  66,  School  at  Kirtland  66, 
Knowledge  Through  Faith  67. 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth   126 

Example  of   McKay  Family    126,   Mission   to   the  Indians  127, 
Gospel  Acceptance  Individual  127,  Aztec  Indian  Boy  128. 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 

The  Gospel  and  Man's  Relationship  to  Deity....$l  .50 


B.  H.  Roberts 

New  Witness  for  Christ  in  America 

Francis  W.  Kirkham 

Volume  I  $2.75 

Evidence  of  Divine  Power  in  the  "Coming  Forth"  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon 

Volume  II   $2.75 

Attempts  to  prove  the  "Book  of  Mormon"  man-made 

Witnesses  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  $2.25 

Preston  Nibley 

Doctrine  and  Covenants  Commentary  $5.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Autobiography  of  Parley  P.  Pratt  $3.00 

Key  to  Theology   $1.50 

Parley  P.  Pratt 

J.  Golden  Kimball  $3.50 

Claude  Richards 

New  Witness  for  God-Vol.  I  $2.25 

B.  H.  Roberts 

Brigham  Young,  the  Colonizer  $3.00 

Milton  R.  Hunter 

Treasures  to  Share  $2.00 

Melvin  Westenskow 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


Some  Suggestions  for  your  Church  Library 

Books  of  lasting  inspiration  by  our  Church  leaders 
On  the  Way  to  Immortality  and  Eternal  Life..$3.50 


J.  Reuben  Clark 

Priesthood  and  Church  Government  $2.50 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  $2.75 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Essentials  in  Church  History  $3.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Jesus  the  Christ-Cloth  Edition  $3.00 

James  E.  Talmage 

Articles  of  Faith— Missionary  Edition  $1.50 

James  E.  Talmage 

Gospel  Standards  $2.25 

Heber  J.  Grant 

Sharing  the  Gospel  With  Others  $2.50 

George  Albert  Smith 

Word  of  Wisdom   $2.75 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

Discourses  of  Brigham  Young   $3.00 

Compiled  by  John  A.  Widtsoe 

The  Spoken  Word  $2.00 

Richard  L.  Evans 

Unto  the  Hills  $2.00 

Richard  L.  Evans 

This  Day  and  Always   $2.00 

Richard  L.  Evans 

At  This  Same  Hour  $2.00 

Richard  L.  Evans 

Life  of  Joseph  F.  Smith  $2.75 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


