October 
193^ 


ONE  HUNDRED  FIFTH 

Semi -Annual 

(Conference 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

October  5,  6,  7, 1934 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


A  THRILLING  STORY 

of  Century  One  of 

CHURCH  HISTORY 

ERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time 
win  the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a 
COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H. 
Roberts  has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set 
down  the  record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  bril- 
liant appraisal  of  momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a 
sentimental  interest  will  be  fascinated  with  this  narrative 
of  truth  stranger  than  fiction;  the  reader  who  approaches 
the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision  of  the  historian  will 
find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact,  copious  in  detail 
and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was 
written  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaus- 
tively complete,  from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close 
of  the  Centennial  Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final 
volume  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Conference  itself,  mak- 
ing the  history  technically  inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in 
Century  One  of  the  organized  existence  of  the  Church.  Thus 
it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of  one  hundred  years  of  strug- 
gle and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  his- 
tory of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in 
AMERICANA,  running  serially  for  six  years  through  that 
magazine,  yet  this  History  is  NEW— new  in  its  wealth  of 
material,  new  in  method  of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical 
representation  of  the  book  maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  Fifth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  and  Fifth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  5,  6,  and  7, 
1934. 

The  proceedings  of  the  various  sessions  of  the  Conference  were 
broadcast  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake 
City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  vas  present  and  presided  at  each  of  the 
sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,1  and 
David  O.  McKay.2 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John 
A.  Widtsoe,3  Charles  A.  Callis,  and  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley.4 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy:  °  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Levi  Edgar 
Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  and 
Rufus  K.  Hardy.6 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants:    Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors  and  high  councilors  from 
the  various  Stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

lJ.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  and  also  as  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  to  fill 
the  vacancy  caused  by  the  death  of  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins. 

2David  O.  McKay  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  Second  Counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency. 

8Jospeh  F.  Merrill  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

4Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  was  sustained  at  this  conference  as  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

BJ.  Golden  Kimball  was  out  of  the  State. 

6Rufus  K.  Hardy  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  a  member  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by  the  death  of  Charles  H.  Hart. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents:  Don  B.  Colton,  Eastern  States;  George  S. 
Romney,  Northern  States ;  Wilf  ord  W.  Richards,  North  Central  States ; 
Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Central  States ;  James  M.  Kirkham,  East  Central 
States ;  LeGrand  Richards,  Southern  States ;  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr., 
Texas ;  Joseph  J.  Daynes,  Western  States ;  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  Califor- 
nia; Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  Northwestern  States ;  John  V.  Bluth,  Canada; 
Harold  W.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Joseph  S.  Peery,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

When  the  time  for  commencing  the  Conference  arrived  the  large 
auditorium  and  galleries;  of  the  great  Tabernacle  were  filled  with  people 
from  the  various  stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church. 

The  first  session  commenced  promptly  at  10  o'clock,  Friday  morn- 
ing, October  5,  when  President  Grant,  who  presided,  announced  that 
the  congregation  would  sing  the  hymn,  "Come,  let  us  anew." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn  the  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  George  H.  Robinson,  President  of  the  Bear  Lake  Stake. 

A  soprano  solo,  "The  mighty  God  hath  spoken,"  was  sung  by  Sister 
Laurinda  P.  Brewerton. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Again  I  express  my  great  pleasure  in  being  present  at  another 
general  conference.  I  hope  that  the  prayer  which  has  been  offered  may 
be  answered,  that  we  may  have  a  time  of  rejoicing,  that  we  may  be 
encouraged  and  blessed  and  strengthened  in  the  faith  of  the  Gospel  of 
our  Savior,  and  that  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  may  be  given  to  those 
who  shall  address  us. 

PAYS  TRIBUTE  TO  DEPARTED  LEADERS 

I  shall  make  a  few  remarks  this  morning  with  reference  to  Brother 
Anthony  W.  Ivins  and  Brother  Charles  H.  Hart,  and  also  pay  a  tribute 
of  respect  to  Brother  Franklin  S.  Richards. 

One  of  the  greatest,  most  devoted  and  splendid  members  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  has  been  taken  from  us  at  the  ripe 
age  of  eighty-two.  From  his  childhood  until  his  death  he  has  been  a 
very  studious  man,  gathering  information  on  many  subjects,  and  he 
was  successful  in  all  the  walks  of  life  in  which  he  engaged.  He  was 
successful  in  more  things  than  any  other  man  I  ever  knew,  and  all  his 
life  fulfilled  the  requirements  made  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Sec- 
tion 88,  verses  124,  125,  126 : 

Cease  to  be  idle;  cease  to  be  unclean;  cease  to  find  fault  one  with  another; 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  3 

cease  to  sleep  longer  than  is  needful ;  retire  to  thy  bed  early,  that  ye  may  not  be 
weary ;  arise  early,  that  your  bodies  and  your  minds  may  be  invigorated ; 

And  above  all  things,  clothe  yourselves  with  the  bonds  of  charity,  as  with  a 
mantle,  which  is  the  bond  of  perfectness  and  peace ; 

Pray  always,  that  ye  may  not  faint  until  I  come;  behold,  and  lo,  I  will  come 
quickly,  and  receive  you  unto  myself. 

Each  and  every  requirement  therein  made  Brother  Ivins  fulfilled, 
except  the  one  "retire  to  thy  bed  early."  I  believe  that  he  would  have 
lived  longer  had  he  fulfilled  that  requirement,  but  he  generally  studied 
until  midnight.  Seldom  did  a  day  pass  that  he  did  not  consult  the  dic- 
tionary. He  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter  the  commandment — "Honor  thy 
father  and  thy  mother,  that  thy  days  may  be  long  upon  the  land  which  the 
Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee." 

BORN  OF  GOODLY  PARENTS 

Like  Nephi  of  old,  he  was  born  of  goodly  parents.  I  know  of  no 
man  of  all  my  acquaintance  who  was  a  greater  reader  than  his  father. 
He  read  "The  Native  Races  of  the  Pacific  Coast,"  by  Bancroft,  as  most 
of  us  would  read  a  continued  story  in  the  newspaper.  It  was  simply 
wonderful  the  fund  of  information  that  Israel  Ivins  had.  He  was  an 
outstanding  man,  one  of  the  greatest  students  I  ever  knew.  He  was 
president  of  the  branch  of  the  Church  in  New  Jersey,  which  Erastus 
Snow  and  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  visited  as  young  missionaries,  and 
when  he  decided  to  come  to  Utah  with  his  brother,  Anthony  Ivins,  almost 
the  entire  branch  came  with  him.  There  has  never  been  a  branch  there 
since. 

I  was  told  by  Joseph  Benedict,  of  the  famous  firm  of  Benedict 
Brothers,  that  Israel  Ivins  was  the  best  read  man  on  the  subject  of  medi- 
cine that  he  had  ever  met;  that  he  had  studied  and  read  more  than  a 
graduate  physician.  He  was  a  man  of  great  character  and  of  great  love. 
He  was  known  as  "Dr.  Ivins"  in  southern  Utah.  In  that  hard  country, 
where  there  was  very  little  money,  he  gave  his  services  mostly  without 
money  and  without  price. 

SERENE  WOMEN 

Of  all  the  women  I  have  ever  known  in  my  life — though  it  might 
be  said  I  am  not  a  fair  judge — the  two  most  serene  and  splendid  women 
were  my  own  mother  and  her  sister,  the  mother  of  Anthony  W.  Ivins. 
His  mother  was  a  student  also,  and  so  from  childhood  he  had  the  advice 
and  counsel  of  two  very  wonderful,  studious  parents.  He  honored  them ; 
he  respected  them ;  he  listened  to  their  advice  in  childhood  and  in  young 
manhood ;  and  to  those  parents  is  due  a  great  deal  of  credit  for  the  suc- 
cess of  his  life.  If  all  children  would  listen  to  good  parents,  as  this 
man  did,  there  would  be  few  mistakes  made  in  the  battle  of  life. 

I,  too,  had  the  great  blessing  to  be  born  of  goodly  parents.  I  remem- 
ber reading  a  trbiute  to  people  who  possess  the  characteristic  of  serenity, 
and  I  remember  that  when  reading  that  tribute  I  wrote  on  the  margin 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  book,  "The  two  most  serene  women  I  have  ever  known  are  my 
own  mother  and  her  sister,  Anna  Ivins." 

LETTER  OF  SYMPATHY 

When  my  mother  died  the  general  manager  for  the  United  Kingdom 
of  the  great  New  York  Life  Insurance  Company  wrote  me  a  letter  of 
sympathy,  and  in  it  he  referred  to  my  mother  as  "dear  Aunt  Rachel." 
She  kept  boarders  for  a  living,  and  the  boarders  called  her  "Aunt 
Rachel."  Tony  Ivins'  sister  waited  on  the  table  without  pay  and  called 
mother  "Aunt  Rachel,"  so  the  boarders  adopted  that  title.  This  man 
was  agnostic  believing  only  in  the  God  of  nature.  He  said:  "If  the 
God  of  nature  ever  did  stamp  peace,  nobility  and  serenity  upon  any  human 
countenance,  he  did  upon  the  face  of  dear  Aunt  Rachel."  And  that  same 
stamp  was  on  the  face  of  dear  Aunt  Anna. 

HIS  FATHER 

I  know  nothing  of  course  of  the  advice  and  counsel  of  a  father  be- 
cause mine  died  when  I  was  a  baby,  but  I  have  learned,  of  his  reputation 
from  others.  People  assure  me  that  Jedediah  M.  Grant  was  one  of  the 
noblemen  of  this  Church.  > 

I  remember  at  one  time  asking  Captain  William  H.  Hooper  to  sign 
some  bonds  for  me,  when  I  was  a  youngster  of  twenty  just  starting  in 
business. 

He  said :   "I  never  do  such  a  thing ;  never  do  such  a  thing." 
I  had  no  more  than  returned  to  my  office  when  a  young  messenger 
came  from  the  bank  and  told  me  the  captain  wanted  to  see  me. 
I  said :   "I  don't  want  to  see  him." 
"Well,  he  sent  me  to  bring  you  to  the  bank." 

I  went  back,  and  he  said:  "Boy,  boy,  give  me  those  bonds."  I  did 
so,  and  he  signed  them.  Then  he  said :  "When  you  went  out  I  turned 
to  Mr.  Hills  and  said,  'Lew,  who  is  that  boy?  He  has  been  bowing  to 
me  on  the  street  for  years.  I  don't  know  who  he  is.  I  never  sign  a 
bond  for  somebody  I  don't  know.  Who  is  he?'  He  said  'Why  that  is 
Jeddy  Grant's  boy,  Heber  J.  Grant'.  'Jeddy  Grant's  boy?  Bring  him  back. 
I  would  sign  that  bond  if  I  knew  I  had  to  pay  it.'  " 

A  MARVELOUS  HERITAGE 

I  am  mentioning  these  things  in  the  hope  that  parents  will  realize 
that  the  example  of  integrity,  of  devotion,  of  loyalty  to  the  Gospel,  and 
the  disposition  not  to  find  fault,  but  to  labor  diligently  and  unceasingly 
for  the  advancement  of  truth,  is  a  marvelous  heritage  to  leave  to  their 
children.   Anthony  W.  Ivins  and  myself  have  that  heritage. 

a  millionaire's  tribute 

I  know  of  no  more  charitable  man  than  Anthony  W.  Ivins.  He 
had  charity  even  for  the  erring  and  for  the  wicked.   He  reformed  many 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


a  vicious  man  by  his  love  and  charity.    I  remember  meeting  on  the 
streets  of  Salt  Lake  City  a  man  named  David  Wood,  of  the  Wood-Hagen- 
barth  Livestock  Company,  the  morning  after  Anthony  W.  Ivins  was 
made  an  apostle. 
He  said : 

Hold  on,  Grant,  don't  walk  so  fast.  I  want  to  tell  you  something.  I  am 
mighty  glad  you  are  running  your  "Mormon"  Church  just  to  suit  me.  If  you 
had  come  to  my  office  yesterday  and  said,  "Dave  Wood,  you  know  the  'Mormon' 
people,  and  their  leading  men  from  Canada  to  Mexico.  You  have  been  a  friend  of 
ours  for  25  long  years.  You  have  never  indulged  in  any  lying  against  the 
'Mormons.'  You  have  never  joined  any  anti-'Mormon'  party.  You  have  always 
spoken  well  of  the  'Mormon'  people  at  home  and  abroad,  in  the  United  States, 
and  even  in  Europe,  and  I  have  been  sent  down  to  your  office  to  tell  you  that  we 
appreciate  that  and  that  we  are  going  to  permit  you  to  name  the  man  whom  you 
consider  to  be  the  very  finest  and  best  man  in  all  the  Church  to  fill  the  vacancy 
in  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles."  Why,  do  you  know,  I  would  not  have 
batted  an  eye  or  taken  a  breath.  I  would  just  have  hollered  "Ivins."  I  amf 
glad  you  are  running  your  Church  to  suit  me.  Good-bye. 

It  is  no  small  thing  to  receive  compliments  of  this  kind.  There  is 
nothing  that  so  completely  rebukes  the  falsehoods  against  our  people 
as  the  fact  that  in  the  judgment  of  a  millionaire  who  had  lived  with  us 
for  25  years  we  had  chosen  the  best  man  in  all  the  Church  to  be  one  of 
the  apostles. 

PERSONALLY  ACQUAINTED  WITH  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

It  fell  to  my  lot  as  a  child  only  five  years  of  age  to  become  acquainted 
with  Brigham  Young,  and  I  came  to  know  him  as  a  God-fearing,  honest, 
upright  man,  and  that  the  one  supreme  thought  of  his  heart  and  his  soul 
was  the  advancement  of  his  people.  It  fell  to  my  lot  as  a  member  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  this  Church  to  be  associated  with  John  Taylor, 
Wilford  Woodruff,  Lorenzo  Snow,  and  Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  know  as  I 
know  that  I  live  that  all  the  slanders  that  have  ever  been  published 
against  these  men  are  falsehoods.  They  were  honest,  upright,  God-fear- 
ing men,  living  in  communion  with  God  our  Father. 

The  very  life  of  Anthony  W.  Ivins  is  a  testimony  of  the  work  in 
which  you  and  I  are  engaged.  Men  of  his  caliber,  of  his  honesty,  of 
his  charity,  of  his  love  for  his  fellow  men,  men  in  communion  with 
God,  would  not  stay  in  this  Church  unless  they  had  an  abiding  faith  in 
the  divinity  of  this  work. 

AN  EXAMPLE  OF  HONESTY 

I  prize  very  highly  a  letter  I  received  from  a  non-member  of  the 
Church,  the  general  manager  of  one  of  the  greatest  insurance  companies, 
congratulating  me  on  having  been  made  an  apostle.  He  said :  "I  have 
known  you  from  childhood.  I  know  you  are  fundamentally  honest 
from  the  crown  of  your  head  to  the  soles  of  your  feet.  I  never  had  a 
very  good  opinion  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church.  I  had  read  so  much 
against  the  Church."  Of  course  there  have  been  about  2,000  books  pub- 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


lished  against  us.  But  there  is  an  old  saying  that  a  lie  can  travel  clear 
around  the  world  while  truth  is  getting  out  of  bed  and  putting  on  its 
boots,  but  sooner  or  later  the  boots  arrive,  overtake  the  lie,  and  step  on 
it.  This  man  said :  "Heber,  though  I  have  had  a  poor  opinion  of  the 
leaders  of  the  Church,  now  that  you  are  one  of  them  I  apologize  to  the 
other  14.  I  know  that  they  would  not  dare  invite  you  into  their  councils 
unless  they  were  honest.  You  would  give  the  whole  thing  away  if  there 
were  anything  crooked." 

REJOICES  IN  TRIBUTES  TO  PRESIDENT  IVINS 

I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  testimony  to  all  the  world  in  the  life  of 
Anthony  W.  Ivins.  My  heart  is  full  of  gratitude  and  thanksgiving  for 
the  wonderful  tributes  paid  to  him  by  the  people  in  the  Church  and  out 
of  the  Church.  I  think  it  is  little  less  than  wonderful  to  note  the  splen- 
did tributes  that  have  been  paid  to  him  in  newspapers  that  are  owned 
by  those  not  of  our  faith.  I  rejoice  in  the  tribute  paid  by  the  bishop 
and  other  officials  of  the  Catholic  church,  and  the  tolling  of  the  Cathedral 
bells  as  the  funeral  cortege  passed  that  great  structure.  I  have  never 
known  such  an  outpouring  of  expressions  of  love  and  appreciation  from 
all  classes  of  people  for  anybody  that  has  passed  away,  as  have  come  re- 
garding Brother  Ivins. 

EXPRESSES  THANKS 

I  rejoiced  in  the  very  wonderful  editorial  written  by  Noble  Warrum 
years  ago  published  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tribune  when  President  Smith 
passed  away.  It  was  one  of  the  most  splendid  tributes  ever  paid.  I  said 
to  Mr.  McKay,  then  manager  and  dictator  of  the  editorial  policy  of  the 
Tribune :  "I  accept  that  as  a  complete  apology  for  all  the  cartoons  and 
the  vicious  things  that  were  published  in  your  paper,  years  ago,  against 
Joseph  F.  Smith."  I  appreciate  and  thank  Noble  Warrum  for  the  splen- 
did editorial  written  about  Anthony  W.  Ivins.  I  am  grateful  beyond 
expression  for  all  of  these  tributes  that  have  been  paid  to  him.  I  am 
thankful  that  the  president  of  the  United  States  saw  fit  to  send  a  tele- 
gram of  congratulation  on  his  birthday. 

I  could  go  on  talking  for  hours  regarding  Anthony  Ivins,  but  I 
think  perhaps  I  have  said  enough.  I  wish  to  say  however,  that  in  every 
particular  he  fulfilled  the  advice  of  the  mother  to  her  son: 

TO  MY  SON 

Do  you  know  that  your  soul  is  of  my  soul  such  a  part 
That  you  seem  to  be  fiber  and  core  of  my  heart? 
None  other  can  pain  me  as  you,  dear,  can  do ; 
None  other  can  please  me,  or  praise  me  as  you. 

Remember  the  world  will  be  quick  with  its  blame, 
If  shadow  or  stain  ever  darken  your  name. 
"Like  mother,  like  son,"  is  a  saying  so  true 
The  world  will  judge  largely  of  mother  by  you. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


Be  this,  then,  your  task,  if  task  it  should  be, 
To  force  the  proud  world  to  do  homage  to  me. 
Be  sure  it  will  say,  when  its  verdict  you've  won, 
"She  reaped  as  she  sowed.   Lo,  this  is  her  son." 

I  paid  a  brief  tribute  to  Brother  Hart  yesterday,  and  I  wished  to 
offer  that  tribute  here.  I  intended  to  bring  the  report  of  that  five-minute 
sermon  with  me,  because  I  want  it  recorded  in  the  Conference  Pamphlet, 
but  I  forgot  it.  One  of  the  truest,  noblest,  most  splendid  men  that  I 
have  been  associated  with,  as  one  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  was  Charles  H.  Hart.  You  will  hear  my  tribute  later,  so  I  will 
say  nothing  further  about  him  now. 

PRESIDENT  IVINS  LOVED  BY  YOUTH 

One  of  the  things  to  which  I  wish  to  call  attention  with  apprecia- 
tion is  the  wonderful  respect  shown  in  the  attendance  of  young  people 
of  the  Church  at  the  funeral  of  Brother  Ivins.  If  there  was  one  man 
more  than  another  of  the  General  Authorities  whom  the  young  people 
admired  and  who  they  felt  was  their  true  friend,  who  had  a  sympathy 
for  them  and  was  always  charitable  toward  the  mistakes  that  they  made, 
that  man  was  Brother  Ivins.  This  was  appreciated,  as  shown  by  the 
splendid  turnout  of  young  people  in  his  honor  at  his  funeral. 

TRIBUTE  TO  BROTHER  RICHARDS 

It  fell  to  my  lot  to  be  associated  for  many  years,  during  the  presi- 
dency of  John  Taylor  and  Wilford  Woodruff  and  Lorenzo  Snow,  with 
Brother  Franklin  D.  Richards.  A  more  gentle,  kind,  considerate,  thought- 
ful man  than  Franklin  D.  Richards,  I  never  knew.  I  remember  one  day 
getting  quite  angry  at  something,  and  talking  pretty  loud  to  Brother 
Richards,  and  he  paid  no  attention  to  what  I  said.  I  went  away  and 
came  back  and  apologized  to  him.  He  laughed  and  said :  "I  knew  you 
didn't  mean  it.    It  did  not  affect  me  at  all." 

Franklin  S.  Richards,  like  Brother  Ivins,  was  the  son  of  a  most 
splendid  father,  a  man  of  integrity  and  devotion  to  the  work  of  God.  I 
have  known  Franklin  S.  Richards  very  intimately,  from  the  time  I  was  a 
boy  of  twenty-two,  having  become  a  partner  with  his  brother,  Lorenzo 
L.  Richards,  in  the  insurance  business  in  Ogden,  under  the  firm  name  of 
Grant  and  Richards.  I  also  became  his  partner  under  the  firm  name  of 
Richards  and  Grant,  owning  a  vinegar  factory  in  Ogden.  He  subse- 
quently engaged  in  the  wholesale  dry-goods  business,  and  I  bought  his 
interests  in  those  two  firms.  I  never  met  a  brighter,  more  remarkable 
man,  in  my  judgment,  than  Lorenzo  L.  Richards.  Many  is  the  night  I 
have  slept  in  Franklin  D.  Richards'  home,  and  I  became  intimately 
acquainted,  of  course,  with  the  father  and  the  sons  and  the  daughter. 

Franklin  S.  Richards  was  all  that  a  father  could  ask  of  a  son.  No 
truer  man,  no  more  faithful  man,  no  more  humble  man  and  no  more 
intelligent  man  have  I  ever  known.  He  was  a  splendid  lawyer.  During 
all  of  the  dark  days  of  trouble  when  we  were  disfranchised  he  was  the 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"wheel-horse,"  figuratively  speaking,  in  trying  to  change  the  condition 
of  affairs  in  Washington,  and  he  labored  unceasingly  to  the  day  of  his 
death.  He  had  the  unlimited  confidence,  I  am  sure,  of  each  and  every 
one  of  the  members  of  the  High  Priests'  quorum  of  Ensign  stake  over 
which  he  had  the  honor  to  preside  at  the  time  of  his  death.  I  loved  him 
truly.  It  was  a  source  of  regret  to  me  that  I  had  to  be  absent  from  the 
city  at  the  time  of  his  funeral. 

GRATEFUL  TO  PRESS 

I  do  not  feel  impressed  to  say  any  more  this  morning,  further  than 
to  extend  to  the  members  of  the  press — The  Deseret  News,  the  Telegram 
and  the  Tribune — my  heartfelt  thanks  for  the  most  splendid  and  won- 
derful notices  and  articles  that  were  written  regarding  Brother  Ivins  ;  and 
when  I  express  this  thought  I  know  that  I  am  also  expressing  the  thought 
of  gratitude  that  is  in  the  heart  of  dear  Sister  Ivins  and  her  children. 
May  God  bless  and  comfort  them.  May  he  lead  us  all  to  follow  the 
example  of  our  beloved  fellow  member  of  the  Church,  Brother  Anthony 
W.  Ivins,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  our 
Redeemer.  Amen. 

The  congregation  arose  and  sang  the  hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God, 
for  a  prophet." 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  listened  with  much  interest  and  appreciation  to  the  remarks 
made  by  President  Grant.  I  have  felt  the  spirit  that  came  from  him  to  us 
— a  spirit  of  love,  admiration  and  appreciation  for  our  brethren  who  have 
been  called  home  and  for  all  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  fought 
life's  battle  wisely  and  well.  It  was  my  privilege  to  know,  with  some 
intimacy,  the  three  brethren  to  whom  President  Grant  has  referred.  They 
were  men  of  God,  wise  men,  kind  men,  generous  men,  for  whom  there 
grew  up  in  my  heart  a  deep  and  abiding  love.  I  wish  to  add,  without 
multiplying  words  on  this  occasion,  my  own  appreciation,  my  own  high 
estimate  of  these  brethren  whom  we  have  lost  during  the  last  few  weeks 
as  they  have  gone  to  their  eternal  home. 

NO  DEVIATION  FROM  FUNDAMENTAL  TRUTH 

While  President  Grant  was  speaking,  the  question  ran  through 
my  mind,  more  than  any  other :  Just  what  made  these  men  great  ?  What 
made  them  worthy  of  the  great  praise  given  to  them  by  the  President 
of  the  Church?  The  thought  came  in  answer  that  ever  since  the  days 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  to  the  present  prophet,  Heber  J.  Grant, 
the  men  who  have  stood  at  the  head  of  this  Church  have  taught  the 
same  doctrine,  have  left  behind  the  same  message.    There  has  been  a 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


9 


certainty  of  declaration  on  their  part.  There  has  been  no  deviation  from 
fundamental  principles.  Undoubtedly  the  reason  why  these  brethren, 
who  have  been  held  before  us  as  examples  today,  were  great,  is  because 
they  also  clung  to  the  fundamental  principles  of  truth  which  make  up  the 
foundation  and  the  frame  work  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

For  a  number  of  years  I  was  engaged  in  reading  the  sermons  of 
Brigham  Young,  having  in  mind  a  compilation  of  his  wise  sayings  for 
the  benefit  of  the  Saints.  I  was  amazed  to  note  how  closely,  how  care- 
fully, he  followed  the  doctrine  laid  down  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
who  himself  only  taught  the  pure,  unchanged  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  As  I  read  on,  studying  the  teachings  of  those  who  came  after 
Brigham  Young,  I  found  the  same  thing  to  be  true.  I  have  listened  in 
this  tabernacle,  for  many  years,  to  the  words  of  President  Heber  J. 
Grant,  and  I  have  found  him  likewise  a  teacher  of  the  same  doctrine 
that  was  taught  by  Joseph  Smith,  by  Brigham  Young,  and  by  the  others 
who  have  preceded  President  Grant  in  his  high  office.  There  has  been 
no  deviation  in  his  teachings  from  fundamental  truth ;  not  by  a  hair's 
breadth. 

In  this  changelessness  of  fundamental  teaching,  lies  not  only  a  testi- 
mony of  the  truth  of  this  great  work  but  also  a  principle  of  comfort  to  all 
who  belong  to  the  Church.  I  belong  to  various  scientific  societies.  In 
them  I  find  that  theories  come  and  go.  We  all  belong  to  various  organ- 
izations, political  parties,  and  we  observe  that  from  day  to  day  the  prin- 
ciples that  guide  the  membership  of  these  associations  seem  to  vary,  to 
change.  I  can  cling  safely  to  the  Church,  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ; 
it  has  steadying  power,  it  does  not  change  nor  vary.  It  is  the  same  today, 
yesterday  and  forever. 

THE  STORY  OF  MAN'S  HISTORICAL  DIFFICULTY  AND  SUCCESS 

I  am  wondering  if  in  this  principle  does  not  lie  the  real  story  of 
man's  historical  difficulty  and  success.  The  history  of  the  world  indicates 
that  any  nation,  country,  or  group  of  people  which  has  set  up  a  righteous 
principle  and  has  lived  by  it  and  died  by  it,  has  risen  to  greatness,  both 
before  their  own  generation  and  those  that  came  after.  Perhaps  the 
greatness  of  the  British  people,  admired  over  the  world,  is  due  in  great 
measure  to  the  fact  that  for  three-quarters  of  a  millennium  they  have 
clung  to  a  doctrine  of  human  liberty  expressed  in  the  famous  document 
known  as  Magna  Charta.  Perhaps  the  greatness  of  the  United  States 
of  America  is  due,  in  largest  measure,  to  the  clinging  to  the  simple  prin- 
ciple that  every  man  is  entitled  to  life,  liberty  and  the  pursuit  of  happi- 
ness. It  is  by  the  adherence  to  such  fundamental  principles  that  men 
and  families,  peoples  and  nations,  grow  great  and  persist  among  the 
generations  of  men. 

THE  CHURCH  NOT  STATIC 

■  Do  not  misunderstand  me  as  I  speak  on  this  theme.  Every  man 
clothes  his  ideas  in  his  own  words.  Joseph  Smith  did  not  speak  as  Heber 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


J.  Grant  speaks.  The  principles,  the  ideas  were  the  same,  but  the  words 
used,  the  forms  of  expression,  belong  to  the  speaker;  and  every  man 
has  a  right  to  express  as  best  he  can  in  the  words  God  gives  him,  the  eter- 
nal truths  that  he  may  obtain  from  a  divine  source. 

Again,  do  not  misunderstand  me.  I  do  not  mean  that  this  church  and 
kingdom  is  static,  that  we  stand  still.  I  believe  in  a  living,  growing 
Church,  which  is  in  need  of  and  does  receive  revelation  from  day  to  day. 
Nothing  is  more  certain  to  me  than  that  we  were  founded  in  revelation 
from  God,  and  that  we  are  guided  daily  by  such  revelation.  We  shall 
have  revelation  for  our  guidance  to  the  end  of  time ;  but  such  new  rev- 
elations as  may  come  will  never  supersede,  destroy  or  abrogate  the  fun- 
damental principles  upon  which  this  Church  rests  its  body  of  doctrine. 
A  new  revelation  merely  adds  and  develops  and  more  nearly  completes 
that  which  has  formerly  been  given. 

APPLICATION  OF  ETERNAL  PRINCIPLES  TO  PRESENT  NEEDS 

The  conditions  of  our  people,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  the  days  of 
Ohio,  Missouri  and  Illinois,  were  as  different  from  the  conditions  of  to- 
day, almost  as  night  is  from  day.  Our  people  then  lived  under  pioneer 
conditions,  with  no  knowledge  of  the  things  which  have  given  us  the 
most  remarkable  mechanical  civilization  of  all  earthly  time.  We  cannot 
expect  that  the  exact  application  of  the  eternal  principles  of  the  Gospel 
should  be  the  same  today  as  in  the  days  of  Ohio  or  Missouri,  but  we  do 
expect  that  any  new  revelation  will  be  very  largely  the  application  of 
the  eternal  principles  of  truth  to  present  needs.  I  rejoice  that  as  far  as  I 
have  been  able  to  read  the  history  of  this  Church  and  as  far  as  I  have 
lived  life  in  the  Church  I  have  seen  from  day  to  day  such  application  of 
fundamental  eternal  unchanging  laws  of  the  Gospel  to  the  needs  of  the 
changing,  existing  today. 

GUIDED  BY  SPIRIT  OF  REVELATION 

I  speak  from  a  firm  conviction,  having  tried  the  Gospel.  When  I 
say  that  this  Church  is  guided  and  led  today  as  yesterday  by  the  spirit  of 
revelation  issuing  from  God  to  and  through  his  servants  who  are  called 
from  time  to  time  to  guide,  on  earth,  the  destinies  of  the  Church,  I  am 
certain  that  President  Ivins  possessed  the  spirit  of  revelation  and  was 
guided  by  it.  President  Hart,  Elder  Richards  and  all  other  faithful 
people  who  have  lived  the  Gospel  and  gone  to  their  honorable  reward, 
have  lived  righteously  because  they  in  their  respective  spheres  were  under 
the  guidance  of  the  spirit  of  revelation.  Every  person  is  entitled  to  com- 
munion with  God  and  guidance  from  him  in  all  that  has  to  be  done  from 
day  to  day.  All  officers  of  the  Church,  in  the  Priesthood,  or  the  auxiliary 
organizations  in  their  official  labors,  have  the  right  to  enjoy  that  spirit 
of  guidance  which  we  call  the  spirit  of  inspiration  or  revelation.  The 
man  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church  receives  such  guidance  for  all 
of  us.  He  is  indeed  a  revelator  for  the  Church.  Our  safety  li-s  in 
listening  to  that  which  he  says,  in  being  guided  by  what  he  counsels.  We 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


11 


are  as  nothing,  in  this  Church  and  kingdom,  if  we  are  not  founded  upon 
revelation  and  guided  by  continuous  revelation.  The  urgent  need  of  the 
world  is  the  wisdom  that  comes  by  revelation  from  the  Lord.  There  will 
be  no  peace  on  earth,  no  final  solution  of  man's  vexing  problems,  until 
leaders  and  followers  humble  themselves  to  receive  guidance  from  the 
heavens. 

MUTUAL  UNDERSTANDING  AND  COMPREHENSION 

In  concluding  this  thought  let  me  say  that  not  only  must  the  speak- 
er, standing  in  this  or  any  other  pulpit,  be  guided  by  the  spirit  of 
revelation  in  what  he  says — if  he  is  to  serve  well  the  cause  that  he  rep- 
resents— but  those  who  listen  must  also  be  directed  by  the  spirit  of  rev- 
elation. The  speaker  and  the  hearer  together  must  be  guided  by  the 
voice  that  comes  from  God's  presence.  Then  there  is  mutual  under- 
standing and  comprehension.  That  principle  was  beautifully  told  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  at  the  very  beginning  of  the  Church.  The 
doctrine  is  set  forth  in  section  50,  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, in  which  it  is  explained  that  when  both  the  hearer  and  the  speaker 
are  moved  upon  by  the  same  power  and  spirit  the  greatest  joy  is  attained.  I 
may  be  permitted  to  read  at  least  two  verses  of  that  glorious  revelation 
which  should  be  known  by  all  Latter-day  Saints : 

Wherefore,  he  that  preacheth  and  he  that  receiveth,  understandeth  one  another, 
and  both  are  edified  and  rejoice  together; 

And  that  which  doth  not  edify  is  not  of  God,  and  is  darkness. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  LIGHT  AND  TRUTH 

Then  follows  what  is  to  me  perhaps  the  most  beautiful  saying  among 
the  many  beautiful  sayings  in  the  revelations  of  God  in  these  latter  days : 

That  which  is  of  God  is  light ;  and  he  that  receiveth  light  and  continueth  in 
God,  receiveth  more  light,  and  that  light  groweth  brighter  and  brighter  until  the 
perfect  day. 

The  day  for  which  we  hope,  the  day  towards  which  we  move  even 
in  this  life. 

When  apostasy  comes,  it  is  because  the  spirit  of  revelation  departs 
from  us.  The  wire  is  broken  between  us  and  the  source  of  truth.  We 
cannot  understand,  though  truth  be  spoken,  since  we  are  not  possessed 
of  the  spirit  of  truth.    We  misunderstand  and  misinterpret. 

There  is  only  one  way,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  obtain  and  possess 
this  mighty  spirit  which  led  Joseph  Smith  into  the  grove,  there  to  receive 
the  first  vision,  which  made  him  the  head  of  the  last  dispensation,  which 
guides  the  Church  today  and  enlightens  every  soul,  and  that  is  by  obey- 
ing strictly,  with  all  our  might,  as  far  as  we  poor  mortal  beings  are  able, 
the  laws  of  the  Gospel.  If  we  obey,  if  we  practice  in  our  lives  the  truths 
given  us,  then  as  certainly  as  we  do  that,  the  enlivening  spirit  of  light,  of 
revelation,  of  understanding  will  come  to  us,  comprehension  will  enter  our 
minds  and  hearts  and  we  shall  know  the  true  joy  of  being  Latter-day 
Saints. 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


BEARS  TESTIMONY 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  is  called  and  inspired  of  God  and  that  he  speaks  the  words  of 
God.  I  bear  witness  that  revelation  continues  in  this  Church,  that,  the 
door  of  divine  communication  is  as  open  today  as  it  was  in  the  days  of 
Joseph  Smith.  The  great  men  mentioned  here  today  so  lived  the  Gos- 
pel that  they  will  reap  the  rich  reward  of  faithful  living,  and  also  have 
become  examples  fit  to  hold  up  in  a.  general  conference  for  us  all  to  fol- 
low.  They  walked  in  the  light  of  revelation. 

May  God  grant  us  power  to  understand  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
and  power  to  live  them,  so  that  we  may  win  for  ourselves  the  abiding 
great  joy  that  all  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  have  the  right  to  claim, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

As  an  officer  of  the  Mutual  Improvement  Association  of  the 
Church,  I  desire  to  speak  briefly  in  this  conference  of  some  of  the 
ideals  we  are  striving  for  in  this  great  young  peoples'  organization. 
This  M.  I.  A.  structure  of  activity,  this  Mutual  Improvement  pro- 
gram that  means  actions  noble  and  high  and  exalted  on  the  part 
of  your  young  folks,  speaks  louder  than  can  words  that  we  are 
giving  genuine  allegiance  to  the  Church. 

M.  I.  A.  SLOGAN 

Our  slogan  for  the  present  season  is :  "By  my  actions  I  will 
prove  my  allegiance  to  the  Church."  Our  young  people  are  re- 
peating it  everywhere.  Perhaps  most  of  you  who  are  in  attendance 
at  this  General  Conference  have  also  repeated  it.  Judging  from 
the  spirit  of  the  Mutual  conventions  which,  during  the  last  three 
months,  have  been  held  in  nearly  all  of  our  stakes,  our  young 
folks,  our  young  men  and  young  women,  have  been  found  putting 
forth  an  effective  and  commendable  effort,  they  have  been  strug- 
gling earnestly,  and  it  seems  successfully,  to  live  in  accordance  with 
this  practical  teaching,  this  intensely  practical  doctrine  of  letting 
their  conduct  tell  of  their  interest  in  and  their  devotion  to  the 
Church.  Their  attitude  is  giving  us  cheer  and  encouragement. 

MISUNDERSTANDINGS  BETWEEN  YOUTH  AND  MATURITY 

There  have  always  been  misunderstandings  more  or  less  ser- 
ious between  the  younger  and  the  older  folks  and  probably  this 
condition  will  always  prevail.  Maturity  always  fears  for  the  moral- 
ity, for  the  faith  and  for  the  safety  of  those  who  are  young;  while 
on  the  other  hand,  those  who  are  young  feel  keenly  that  they  are 
not  understood  by  those  who  are  older.  In  the  past,  however,  youth 
seems  always  to  have  gotten  along  fairly  well  in  some  way  or 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


13 


other.  Remember  we  who  are  the  grown-ups  of  today,  we  who 
have  the  gray  heads  now  were  the  youth  of  yesterday. 

M.  I.  A.  MANUALS  AND  BOOKS 

As  an  evidence  of  our  sincerity  in  adopting  this  year's  slogan, 
I  refer  you  to  our  M.  I.  A.  manuals  and  the  books  on  our  reading 
course.  I  need  not  name  them.  They  are  available  to  you  since 
they  are  being  studied  in  all  your  wards.  Concerning  one  of  these, 
the  manual  for  the  M  Men  department,  written  by  Dr.  Lowell  L. 
Bennion  and  entitled  "What  About  Religion,"  I  understood  Presi- 
dent Grant  to  say  that  this  little  volume  pleased  him  greatly,  so 
much  so  in  fact  that  he  regards  it  as  one  of  the  best  pieces  of 
literature  the  Church  has  produced. 

But  it  is  not  of  this  but  of  our  Adult  Manual  that  I  desire  on 
this  occasion  to  say  a  few  words.  This  publication  has  been  pre- 
pared by  our  able  writer  and  scholar,  John  Henry  Evans,  and  its 
title  is  "The  Leadership  of  Joseph  Smith."  Realizing  that  members 
of  the  Church  cannot  learn  too  much  of  this  strong,  outstanding, 
divinely  guided  leader,  we  have  had  this  manual  prepared  confident 
that  as  you  read  and  study  it  you  will  find  new  joy  and  faith  and 
testimony.  The  more  we  learn  of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  the 
greater  and  grander  and  nobler  as  an  inspired  leader  and  prophet 
will  we  discover  him  to  be  and  the  more  we  will  desire  to  follow 
his  inspired  leadership. 

A  SUBJECT  ON  WHICH  ALL  CAN  AGREE 

The  divinity  of  the  teachings,  the  revelations  and  the  messages 
ofl  the  Prophet  is  one  subject  on  which  all  genuine  Latter-day 
Saints,  young  as  well  as  old,  can  and  must  agree.  We  have  in  him 
a  man  genuinely  great.  He  was  made  so,  we  verily  believe,  by  the 
power  of  God.  I  have  been  looking  all  my  days  for  some  one, 
philosopher,  statesman  or  scholar,  who  could  account  for  the  numer- 
ous outstanding  accomplishments  of  Joseph  Smith  in  any  way 
other  than  that  he  was  guided  by  divine  power.  Thus  far  I  have 
found  no  one,  scholar,  philosopher  or  other  wise  man,  who  could 
account  for  him  and  his  accomplishments  in  any  other  way. 

THE  PERSONALITY  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH 

In  this  outstanding  personage,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  no 
one  was  ever  disappointed.  The  fondest  anticipations  of  those  who 
had  heard  of  him  as  a  new  and  modern  and  marvelous  prophet 
were  mild  indeed  compared  with  the  actual  impressions  that  his 
presence,  his  personality  and  his  individual  contact  produced.  Dr. 
Andrew  D.  White,  outstanding  teacher,  president  of  Cornell  Uni- 
versity, scholar,  diplomat  and  statesman,  told  me  with  his  own 
lips  that  while  he  had  seen  the  Prophet  in  Nauvoo  for  but  a 
moment  he  regarded  him  as  not  only  a  strong  personality  but  as 
a  most  unusual  and  magnetic  one. 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Joseph  Smith  aroused  the  keenest  interest  in  every'  one  who 
met  him.  From  those  who  are  not  members  of  our  own  Church, 
he  invariably  commanded  respect  and  admiration.  From  his  fellow 
churchmen  he  drew  forth  an  undying1  love  that  we  might  call 
almost  adoration.  Our  outstanding  leaders  who  traveled  far  to 
see  the  Prophet  soon  found  themselves  tied  to  him  with  that  affec- 
tion which  nothing  else  can  produce  but  the  power  of  Almighty 
God.  Parley  P.  Pratt  came  to  him  from  Ohio,  Orson  Pratt  from 
New  York,  Sidney  Rigdon  and  Edward  Partridge  from  Ohio,  John 
Taylor  from  Canada,  Brigham  Young  from  Vermont,  Willard  Rich- 
ards and  Orson  Spencer  from  Massachusetts,  Charles  C.  Rich  from 
Ilinois,  etc.  Many  other  outstanding  scholars,  pioneers  and  great 
men  of  the  Church  came  from  all  parts  of  the  nation  and  not  one 
was  disappointed  in  the  character,  the  personality  and  the  leader- 
ship of  Joseph  Smith.  All  were  glad  of  an  opportunity  to  follow 
his  inspired  leadership  and  considered  so  doing  an  outstanding 
privilege.  Strangers  who  came  to  see  him,  even  from  foreign  coun- 
tries, invariably  looked  upon  him  with  admiration. 

TRIBUTES  BY  CONTEMPORARIES 

"Although  in  him  there  was  nothing  strange  or  different  from  other  men 
in  his  personal  appearance,"  said  Amasa  M.  Lyman  who  came  from  Massachu- 
setts, "yet  when  he  grasped  my  hand  in  that  cordial  way  known  to  those  who 
had  met  him  in  the  honest  simplicity  of  truth,  I  felt  as  one  of  old  in  the 
presence  of  the  Lord.  My  strength  seemed  to  be  gone,  so  that  it  required 
an  effort  on  my  part  to  stand  on  my  feet. 

But  in  all  this,"  says  he,  "there  was  no  fear.  The  serenity  and  peace  of 
heaven  pervaded  my  soul,  and  the  still,  small  voice  of  the  Spirit  whispered 
its  living  testimony  into  the  depths  of  my  being  that  he  was  a  man  of  God." 
(Joseph  Smith  the  American  Prophet,  Evans,  p.  5.) 

Josiah  Quincy  has  said  that  it  is  by  no  means  improbable  that 
some  future  text  book  will  state  that  the  historical  American  of 
the  nineteenth  century  that  has  exerted  the  most  powerful  in- 
fluence upon  the  destinies  of  his  country  is  Joseph  Smith  the 
Mormon  prophet.  "Born  in  the  lowest  ranks  of  poverty,"  continues 
Quincy,  "he  had,  without  book  learning,  made  himself  at  the  age 
of  39  a  power  upon  the  earth.  If  the  reader  does  not  know  what  to 
make  of  Joseph  Smith,  I  cannot  help  him  out  of  the  difficulty  since 
I  myself  stand  helpless  before  the  puzzle."  (Joseph  Smith  the 
American  Prophet,  pp.  4  and  13.) 

A  GREAT  LEADER  AND  PROPHET 

It  is  certain,  says  John  Henry  Evans  (p.  vii)  that  "no  more 
spectacular  or  strange  or  dynamic  or  fascinating  personality  can 
be  found  in  modern  history."  Evans  further  writes : 

Here  is  a  man  who  was  born  in  the  stark  hills  of  Vermont;  who  was 
reared  in  the  backwoods  of  New  York;  who  never  looked  inside  a  college  or 
a  high  school;  who  lived  in  six  states,  no  one  of  which  would  own  him  dur- 
ing his  lifetime;  who  spent  months  in  the  vile  prisons  of  the  period;  who 
even  when  he  had  his  freedom,  was  hounded  like  a  fugitive;  who  was  covered 
once  with  a  coat  of  tar  and  feathers,  and  left  for  dead;  who,  with  his  follow- 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


15 


ing,  was  driven  by  irate  neighbors  from  New  York  to  Ohio,  from  Ohio  to 
Missouri,  and  from  Missouri  to  Illinois;  and  who,  at  the  unripe  age  of 
thirty-nine  was  shot  to  death  by  a  mob  with  painted  faces. 

Yet  this  man  became  the  mayor  of  the  biggest  town  in  Illinois  and  the 
state's  most  prominent  citizen,  the  commander  of  the  largest  body  of  trained 
soldiers  in  the  nation  outside  of  the  Federal  army,  the  founder  of  cities  and 
of  a  university,  and  aspired  to  become  President  of  the  United  States. 

*  *  *  On  the  threshold  of  an  organizing  age  he  established  the  most 
nearly  perfect  social  mechanism  in  the  modern  world,  and  developed  a 
religious  philosophy  that  challenges  anything  of  the  kind  in  history,  for 
completeness  and  cohesion.  And  he  set  up  the  machinery  for  an  economic 
system  that  would  take  the  brood  of  Fears  out  of  the  heart  of  man — that  is, 
the  fear  of  want  through  sickness,  old  age,  unemployment  and  poverty.  In 
thirty  nations  are  men  and  women  who  look  upon  him  as  a  greater  leader 
than  Moses  and  a  greater  prophet  than  Isaiah.  (See  introductory  page  of 
Evans'  book.) 

Is  it  any  wonder  that  we  recommend,  in  fact  that  we  urge  not 
only  the  youth  but  all  other  members  of  the  Church  to  make  a 
more  careful  study  of  the  outstanding  accomplishments,  teachings, 
life  and  doctrines  of  this  great  leader  and  prophet  under  whose  in- 
spired leadership  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  and 
reestablished  ? 

Perhaps  by  reading  and  studying  his  life  we  ourselves  may  be 
able  to  acquire  in  some  small  degree  some  of  his  marvelous  traits 
of  character.  It  is  certainly  our  duty  as  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ — believers  in  the  Gospel  plan  restored  and  established 
by  the  power  of  God  through  this  Prophet,  to  know  more  of  this 
great  character. 

SAMPLES  OF  INSPIRATION 

Listen  to  a  few  sentences  from  some  of  the  revelations  which 
have  come  to  us  through  this  modern  Prophet : 

Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells 
on  high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I  say:  Hearken  ye 
people  from  afar;  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea  listen  together. 

For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see;  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear, 
neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated.    (Doc.  &  Cov.  1:1-2.) 

And  further : 

I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allowance. 
(Doc.  &  Cov.  1:31.) 

These  are  but  samples  of  the  language  and  the  inspiration 
contained  in  some  of  the  words  given  to  us  by  the  Prophet,  our 
Prophet,  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  the  Prophet  of  these  last  days. 

Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you:  In  consequence  of  evils 
and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the 
last  days,  I  have  warned  you  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  you  this  word 
of  wisdom  by  revelation.    (Doc.  &  Cov.  89:4.) 

NOT  GOOD  FOR  MAN 

This  Word  of  Wisdom  informs  us  that  tea  and  coffee  and 
tobacco  and  strong  drinks  are  not  good  for  man. 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


While  it  is  true  that  on  the  7th  day  of  November  in  the  year 
of  our  Lord  1933,  the  people  of  the  United  States  by  their  votes 
repealed  Prohibition,  while  they  repealed  the  Eighteenth  Amend- 
ment, the  people  did  not  then  nor  will  they  ever  repeal  that  law 
of  nature  which  says  that  alcohol  is  a  poison.  The  people  did  not 
then  nor  will  they  ever  repeal  the  Word  of  Wisdom  which  says 
strong  drinks  are  not  good  for  man. 

Actions  not  only  speak  louder,  but  they  speak  much  louder 
than  do  words.  He  who  belongs  to  the  L.  D.  S.  group  and  drinks 
tea  or  drinks  coffee  or  uses  tobacco  in  any  form  or  fails  to  resist 
the  temptation  to  drink  his  glass  of  beer  or  any  other  beverage 
containing  alcohol  surely  cannot  regard  himself  as  being  true  to 
his  own  group.  Certainly  he  is  not  by  his  actions  proving  his  al- 
legiance to  the  Church. 

What  actions  of  mine  are  referred  to  in  this  slogan?  As  I  re- 
peat it  do  I  give  proper  consideration  to  Church  standards  and  do 
I  analyze  my  conduct  with  regard  to  these  standards? 

HONESTY  AND  FAIR  DEALING 

First,  we  believe  in  being  honest.  Do  we  have  this  in  mind 
when  we  say  that  by  our  actions  we  will  prove  our  allegiance  to 
the  Church?  If  we  live  up  to  the  ideal  expressed  in  this  slogan, 
then  in  our  dealings  we  are  to  be  fair.  When  we  speak  we  are  to 
tell  the  truth.  If  by  our  actions  we  are  to  show  ourselves  to  be 
honest,  we  will  not  create  a  false  impression  by  telling  only  half 
of  the  truth.  In  short,  our  dealings  with  our  fellowmen  will  be 
so  fair  and  so  frank,  so  honest  that  we  shall  have  nothing  to  con- 
ceal. By  thus  living  and  thus  acting  we  shall  so  teach  the  Gospel 
that  by  our  actions,  which  speak  louder  than  any  words,  we  shall 
teach  our  neighbors  and  our  business  associates  that  we*  not  only 
believe  the  Gospel  as  it  has  been  revealed  through  Joseph  Smith 
the  Prophet,  but  we  in  our  very  lives  are  practicing  it.  We  shall 
then  be  proving  by  our  conduct  our  allegiance  to  the  Church  and 
our  faith  in  the  divinity  of  the  message  brought  to  us  through 
this  outstanding  and  marvelous  modern  man,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 

IN  ACCORDANCE  WITH  HIGH  IDEALS 

Next,  we  believe  in  being  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous 
and  in  doing  good  to  all  men.  In  our  dealings  with  our  fellows  day 
by  day  and  all  the  time  if  we  are  true  to  the  promise  in  this  pledge, 
this  slogan,  then  we  must  try  unceasingly  to  live  in  accordance 
with  all  these  high  ideals.  Thus  we  shall  prove  that  we  have  faith 
in  and  that  we  are  struggling  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  high 
ideals,  the  standards  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

By  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous  and  in  doing 
good  to  all  men,  by  going  forward  literally  by  the  tens  of  thou- 
sands and  thus  by  our  actions  proving  our  allegiance  to  the  Church, 
we  are,  as  our  new  M.  I.  A.  song  by  Miss  Beesley  says,  "Building 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


17 


today  the  house  of  youth.  Its  foundations  are  strong  and  secure. 
Faith  in  God  and  devotion  to  truth,  honor  that  shall  endure.  Its 
walls  are  adorned  with  garlands  bright,"  in  which  "virtue  and  love 
entwine ;  and  its  structure  shall  rise  till  it  reaches  the  skies,  gleam- 
ing with  light  divine." 

It  is  not  by  our  words  only  but  by  our  actions,  by  living  in 
accordance  with  the  ideals  expressed  in  this  new  and  noble  song 
that  we  are  building  a  structure  that  will  be  great  and  glorious  and 
beautiful.  The  structure  will  rise  until  it  reaches  the  skies  and  it 
will  be  lighted  with  the  light  and  power  and  inspiration  of  Almighty 
God.  It  will  indeed  "gleam  with  light  divine." 

THE  ROAD  TO  PERFECTION 

I  am  speaking  now  of  the  ideals  of  our  institution,  the  ideals 
of  the  Church.  As  M.  I.  A.  workers  we  may  not  be  able  always 
to  live  strictly  in  accordance  with  these,  all  cannot  reach  the  top ; 
this  would  be  impossible  since  our  goal  is  perfection.  With  us  who 
have  weaknesses,  with  us  who  lack  strength  to  resist  temptation, 
I  appeal  to  you  to  have  patience  and  charity.  We  pledge  ourselves 
that  all  the  time  and  without  ceasing  we  shall  try  to  do  and  to  be 
better.  We  have  had  come  into  our  souls  that  light  and  inspira- 
tion which  comes  with  the  receiving  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  we  have 
tugging  at  our  feet  constantly  that  pull  to  do  right,  that  pull  whose 
aim  is  to  bring  us  back  into  the  straight  way,  that  way  which  is 
narrow.  We  expect  this  pull  to  continue  as  long  as  in  our  souls 
there  is  that  glow  of  joy  and  satisfaction  that  nothing  else  can 
give  but  a  testimony  and  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  mission 
of  the  Prophet.  I  mean  that  knowledge  and  testimony  which  noth- 
ing else  can  bring  but  righteous  living  and  the  power  of  God. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  sincerely  hope  that  I  may  be  led  to  say  this  morning  that  which 
the  Lord  would  have  me  say  for  the  good  of  all  who  are  here  and  for  all 
who  may  listen.  This,  I  think,  is  a  great  opportunity  that  the  Lord  has 
given  his  children,  to  gather  together  upon  occasions  of  this  kind,  to  give 
a  reason  for  the  hope  that  is  within  them,  and  to  gain  more  evidence  of 
him  and  his  great  plan. 

I  am  sure  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  There  is  not  any  ques- 
tion in  my  mind  concerning  the  truth  of  his  great  revelation  and  his 
organization  in  these  the  last  days.  We  are  not  so  sure  of  the  things  of 
this  world.  The  mediums  of  exchange  that  are  used  everywhere  may 
change.  They  may  lose  their  value  entirely.  Principles  may  prove  to  be 
valueless  in  the  management  of  nations.  But  the  plan  of  God,  our 
Eternal  Father,  will  not  change.  The  great  institution  that  he  estab- 
lished through  his  Son,  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet,  over  a  hundred  years 
ago,  will  not  change. 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  is  the  right  and  the  privilege  of  all  men  to  become  acquainted 
with  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  which  provides  for  their  welfare,  not 
only  here  but  in  the  world  to  come.  There  never  was  a  greater  oppor- 
tunity than  now,  I  am  sure,  for  the  youth  of  Zion,  and  all  the  inhabitants 
of  Zion,  to  become  acquainted  with  this  great  work  of  our  Redeemer. 

The  law  of  baptism  was  instituted  as  the  means  by  which  men  were 
to  gain  admission  into  the  Church  of  God  our  Father  in  the  earth.  The 
mode  is  indicated  by  the  word  from  which  "baptism"  is  derived,  and 
when  this  ordinance  is  administered  in  any  other  way  we  know  it  is  in- 
correct. There, is  no  other  way  than  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of 
sins.  We  may  be  challenged  on  this  point,  but  the  language  itself  con- 
cerning the  mode  of  baptism  clearly  defines  the  way  by  which  men  are 
to  be  brought  into  the  Church,  and  no  other  way  could  be  considered. 
So  we. stand,  as  a  church,  absolutely  sure  of  our  ground.  Men  have 
changed  the  ordinance,  but  our  Eternal  Father's  plan  never  changes.  His 
language  pointed  out  the  mode  in  the  beginning.  It  will  be  so  in  the 
end. 

Following  baptism  is  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  reception  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  This  is  the  birth  of  the  Spirit  which  completely  im- 
merses the  souls  of  men  and  fills  them  with  the  inspiration  and  power 
of  the  Eternal  Father,  bears  witness  unto  them  that  they  have  received 
the  knowledge  that  he  wished  to  convey,  a  knowledge  of  their  Redeemer, 
a  knowledge  of  his  great  plan  for  the  redemption  of  his  children.  It  is 
within  the  reach  of  the  entire  human  family,  if  they  will  but  read  aright 
and  pray  unto  God,  their  Father,  for  understanding. 

The  youth  of  Zion  should  become  acquainted  with  this  ordinance  of 
baptism.  I  am  sure  that  we  do  not  understand  it  as  well  as  we  ought  to 
do.  Hundreds  of  young  men  and  young  women  have  not  learned,  as  they 
must  learn,  the  reason  why  men  and  women  are  baptized,  the  mode  of 
baptism,  who  are  to  administer  it,  and  what  it  means  to  be  a  baptized 
member  of  the  Church  and  to  receive  the  inspiration  and  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

The  things  of  this  earth  will  pass  away  as  the  frost  before  the  sun. 
Men  and  women  will  come  and  go.  Great  institutions  will  be  organ- 
ized and  fail.  But  the  plan  of  our  Eternal  Father  will  always  live.  It 
will  be  found  in  eternity  as  well  as  here.  It  is  the  thing  by  which  men 
may  measure  themselves.  It  is  the  thing  by  which  they  may  know  where- 
of they  speak.  It  is  the  thing  that  will  keep  them  in  the  straight  and 
the  narrow  way. 

There  can  be  no  question  at  all  concerning  this  great  Church.  Men 
and  women  in  the  Church  may  fail,  but  the  great  Church  is  the  one 
that  our  Eternal  Father  established  in  these  the  last  days,  by  which  men 
and  women  should  return  unto  him.  If  men  and  women  will  but  keep 
the  commandments  of  God  as  well  as  they  can  they  need  have  no  fear. 
Life  is  but  a  short  span.  We  are  here  but  a  few  moments  of  time, 
compared  with  the  great  periods  of  time  of  our  Eternal  Father.  It  is 
your  day  and  it  is  mine  to  live  in  the  earth  and  to  obtain  a  knowledge 
that  will  take  us  back  into  the  presence  of  God,  that  will  give  us  the  power 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BEN N I  ON 


19 


to  overcome,  to  live  down  weaknesses  that  are  natural  to  the  flesh.  It 
is  the  great  school  that  our  Eternal  Father  planned  for  us,  and  we  of  all 
people  can  be  most  sure  of  our  position,  and  give  unto  God,  our  Eternal 
Father,  the  praise  and  the  honor  and  the  glory.  We  can  afford  to  be 
charitable  in  every  way.  We  can  afford  to  be  kind  and  to  be  diligent. 
We  can  extend, every  courtesy  to  others  who  have  not  received  the  light 
that  has  come  to  us  in  this  day. 

I  have  heard  that  the  Gospel  is  termed  "dry"  by  some  people.  But 
it  is  the  most  interesting  thing  in  all  the  world.  It  has  a  foundation 
and  assurance  by  which  every  man  and  woman  may  know  their  pos- 
sibilities, as  the  days  come  and  go  and  as  they  advance.  It  is  the  great 
plan  which  our  Eternal  Father  sent  from  heaven  to  us.  We  became 
acquainted  with  it  long  before  the  foundation  of  this  earth  was  laid,  and 
we  now  have  the  opportunity  of  taking  part  in  it.  This  is  a  temporary 
world  to  which  there  will  be  an  end;  the  bodies  of  men  will  grow  cold 
and  inactive ;  life  will  depart.  But  while  we  are  here,  away  from  home 
as  it  were,  our  Eternal  Father  has  given  us  the  privilege  of  proving  our- 
selves to  him.  We  are  here,  to  learn  the  truth,  to  speak  it  and  to  live  it, 
and  to  overcome  the  power  of  the  adversary,  who  is  in  the  earth  to  thwart 
the  purposes  of  God.  He  challenged  God  long  before  the  foundations 
of  this  earth  were  laid.  He  went  into  battle  against  him,  and  he  has 
renewed  it  here,  every  day  and  every  hour  while  men  live  in  the  flesh. 
He  will  claim  as  many  as  he  can,  and  the  only  weapon  by  which  men 
may  reach  him  and  be  able  to  withstand  his  attack  is  to  learn  the  paths 
which  our  Eternal  Father  has  laid  out  for  us.  He  desires  his  sons  and 
his  daughters  to  know  the  Church  and  to  enter  into  it ;  and  to  know  its 
principles ;  to  teach  them  to  others.  This  is  the  great  plan  by  which 
men  and  women  may  come  unto  him. 

Our  Heavenly  Father  gave  us  our  own  free  agency.  He  taught 
it  to  us,  gave  it  to  us  when  we  walked  by  sight  and  not  by  faith.  He 
planned  for  our  redemption,  but  gave  us  the  privilege  to  receive  or  re- 
ject. I  am  sure  that  if  all  men  could  know  the  plan  of  our  Eternal 
Father,  as  he  has  outlined  it  in  his  revelations,  they  would  be  able  to 
meet  the  advance  of  the  adversary  in  every  form,  and  be  led  to  glorify 
God,  for  great  is  the  work  of  God,  and  great  are  the  purposes  of  our 
Redeemer ! 

This  is  the  day  for  men  to  become  men,  and  for  women  to  become 
women.  It  is  the  day,  as  Alma  the  prophet,  said,  when  men  are  to  pre- 
pare to  meet  their  God.  While  here  in  mortality  we  enter  into  business, 
into  commercial  relationships  with  men,  but  there  is  a  right  way  to  do  it. 
God  never  i  intended  that  it  should  be  done  in  a  dishonest  way,  any  more 
than  he  intended  that  men  should  be  untruthful.  He  planned  the 
greatest  scheme  by  which  men  should  become  strong,  and  by  which  they 
might  come  unto  him  as  only  real  sons  can  come.  He  provided  a  great 
course  of  study  for  his  sons  and  daughters  in  the  earth. 

When  men  can  see  their  way  clear  to  enter  into  the  Church,  through 
the  door  of  the  sheep-fold,  to  obtain  that  witness  that  comes  from  him 
that  this  is  his  work,  it  is  the  happiest  and  most  privileged  new  birth  that 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


they  have  ever  received.  There  are  millions  of  men  in  this  world  who 
need  the  support  of  this  Church.  They  need  the  testimony  of  men  who 
know  the  truth;  they  need  the  explanation  of  the  principles  of  it.  It 
isn't  hard;  it  is  easy  to  understand.  The  people  of  the  world  need  it 
more  today  than  they  ever  did  before.  The  world  is  in  trouble.  Trouble  is 
everywhere.  It  is  in  the  family,  it  is  in  the  nations.  The  voice  of  God 
is  ready  when  they  are  ready  to  receive  it,  but  they  can  only  receive  it  when 
they  hear  it,  and  they  cannot  hear  it  except  men  be  sent  to  provide  for 
their  hearing.  In  the  fulness  of  time  every  son  and  daughter  who  may 
be  entitled  to  the  testimony  of  Jesus  in  the  flesh  shall  hear  it. 

As  I  see  it  this  morning  this  is  our  mission :  To  provide  for  the 
welfare  of  the  children  of  men,  to  sustain  the  holy  Priesthood  of  God 
the  Father  in  the  earth,  vested  in  his  sons,  to  carry  on  the  plan  that  he 
intended,  to  speak  the  truth  and  to  live  it,  and  to  overcome.  I  think  that 
men  and  women  will  never  be  perfect  in  the  flesh.  It  is  not  a  perfect 
world.  But  we  can  go  on  every  day  acquiring  the  power  to  perfect 
ourselves,  and  thus  be  better  prepared  when  we  leave  here  to  enter  into 
another  great  school  of  experience  that  shall  be  ours  before  the  time 
comes  for  men  to  receive  their  bodies,  resurrected  and  assigned  to  a 
glory. 

This  is  a  great  life,  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends.  It  is  a  glori- 
ous opportunity  to  acquire  knowledge.  The  knowledge  of  this  Gospel 
is  the  most  interesting  thing  in  the  world.  The  exchanges  of  this  world 
and  their  values  may  pass  away  in  a  night  and  be  of  no  more  use  to  us, 
but  the  things  that  God  revealed  for  the  benefit  of  his  children  shall  al- 
ways be  useful,  as  long  as  the  earth  stands,  and  in  the  eternities  to  come, 
forever  and  forever. 

May  we  keep  these  things  in  our  minds,  and  sustain  the  authority  of 
the  Church.  I  tell  you  those  men  who  stood  by  the  Prophet  in  the  days 
of  Nauvoo,  and  who  stood  by  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young,  and  who 
have  stood  by  the  leaders  of  this  Church,  from  then  until  now — they  and 
their  seed  are  the  ones  upon  whom  the  Lord  counts.  I  find  them  in  the 
stakes  of  Zion  where  I  travel.  I  have  been  away  from  home  a  long  time 
and  have  rtot  had  an  opportunity  to  visit  the  stakes  of  Zion,  but  now,  in 
these  stakes  and  in  these  valleys,  I  find  the  descendants  of  these  men 
standing  valiantly  for  the  great  plan  of  our  Eternal  Father.  I  bear 
witness  to  you,  that  it  is  because  of  the  faith  and  devotion  of  their 
fathers  that  was  taught  them  and  written  in  their  hearts  by  those  early 
leaders  with  whom  they  associated.  I  hope  the  men  and  women  of  Zion, 
the  youth  of  Zion,  will  learn  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  will  love 
them.  That  this  may  be  our  privilege,  more  now  than  ever  before,  I 
humbly  pray,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  it  is  a  great  privilege  to  be 
in  attendance  at  this  conference.  I  desire  to  add  my  testimony  to 


ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 


21 


the  tributes  that  have  been  paid  here  this  morning  with  reference 
to  the  loss  that  we  have  sustained  in  this  great  church. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  Texas  Mission,  and  am  de- 
lighted to  say  that  your  sons  and  daughters,  in  the  main,  are  well 
and  happy.  I  believe  that  without  an  exception  they  are  enjoying 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  they  are  enjoying  their  labors,  and 
that  they  are  anxious  to  put  the  message  of  Mormonism  before  the 
people  in  that  part  of  the  Lord's  vineyard.  I  am  grateful  to  my 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  opportunity  of  serving  among  those  fine 
people. 

I  am  happy  to  say  to  you,  this  morning,  that  the  mission, 
so  far  as  I  am  able  to  interpret,  is  going  forward.  Saturday,  as  I 
left  the  office,  the  secretary  of  the  Sunday  Schools  of  the  mission 
handed  me  his  report,  and  he  said  all  of  the  Sunday  Schools  have 
reported  the  Dime  Fund  except  nine,  and  ten  of  them  have  reported 
more  than  one  hundred  per  cent  collection.  I  believe  that  condition 
is  reflected  in  most  all  of  the  auxiliaries  in  the  Texas  Mission. 

These  branches  and  these  auxiliaries  are  officered  by  men  and 
women  who  have  embraced  and  accepted  the  Gospel  in  the  mission 
field.  I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  say,  to  be  associated 
with  those  fine  people.  We  have  had  some  wonderful  things  hap- 
pen to  us  during  this  year.  The  Lord  has  been  kind  in  opening  up 
the  way  for  our  Elders  to  preach  the  Gospel.  I  am  sure  President 
Bennion  will  be  happy  when  I  tell  him  that  in  one  of  the  southern 
cities  in  which,  I  believe,  we  have  never  been  privileged  before  to 
preach  the  Gospel,  this  summer  the  Elders  have  been  granted  the 
opportunity  of  preaching  on  the  streets,  and  they  are  meeting  with 
a  wonderful  reception.  As  I  passed  through  Dallas  Sunday  morn- 
ing I  met  one  of  the  young  men  who  was  instrumental  in  the 
hands  of  the  Lord  in  securing  permission  from  the  mayor  and  the 
chief  of  police  to  preach  on  the  streets  in  that  city,  and  he  was 
telling  me  of  the  splendid  reception  they  were  having.  In  this 
city  they  have  a  higher  school  of  learning  which  is  operated  by 
one  of  the  great  churches,  and  he  told  me  that  one  of  the  leading 
professors  in  that  institution  had  offered  him  a  scholarship  if  he 
would  come  and  attend  that  institution.  A  wonderful  spirit  is  pre- 
vailing and  many  people  are  being  led  into  the  Church.  We  are 
grateful  for  these  things. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  the  missionaries  have.  I  re- 
joice in  the  power  and  manifestation  of  the  Spirit  of  God  that  is 
present  in  that  mission  field.  I  have  here  a  testimony  that  I  would 
like  to  read  that  seems  to  me  to  be  rather  unusual.  It  is  about 
a  young  man  who  lives  in  Evanston,  Wyoming.  He  has  been  a 
student  in  the  East.  I  think  he  spent  four  years  studying  to  become 
a  doctor.  After  that  I  understand  that  he  specialized  in  abnormal 
psychology,  and  was  employed  in  that  profession  at  the  time  this 
accident  occurred.  I  am  going  to  just  take  the  time  to  read  the 
story  as  it  was  written  to  me  by  the  sister  of  this  good  man. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


With  a  group  of  friends  Carlton  went  to  Galveston  Bay  to  swim.  There 
were  many  people  there  enjoying  the  swimming  and  diving.  My  brother  became 
separated  from  his  friends,  but  as  he  ran  along  the  pier  and  was  about  to  make 
a  dive  his  feet  slipped  and  he  fell,  striking  the  bottom  of  the  Bay,  breaking  his 
neck  (6th  and  7th  Cervical).  Strange  as  it  may  seem,  he  was  not  knocked  uncon- 
scious, and  the  first  thought  that  came  was  that  he  was  at  the  end  of  his  life; 
no  one  had  seen  the  accident.  He  was  determined  to  hold  his  breath  as  long  as 
possible,  but  just  when  he  realized  his  end  was  near,  and  he  had  found  it  was 
impossible  to  move  on  account  of  being  totally  paralyzed  from  his  neck  down,  he 
found  that  someone  had  found  him  and  was  bringing  him  to  the  surface  of  the 
water.  Strange  as  it  may  seem,  one  of  his  companions  stopped  for  a  moment  on 
the  pier  and  amid  those  hundreds  of  people  saw  this  man  disappear,  and  found 
that  he  did  not  come  to  the  surface.  He  dived  in  after  Carlton,  and  when  he  brought 
him  to  the  surface  found  it  was  his  friend.  He  said:  "Carlton,  put  your  arm 
around  me.  I  did  not  know  that  I  was  rescuing  you."  Carlton  replied  and  said : 
"I  can't  move :  I  have  broken  my  neck.  Get  me  to  the  hospital  as  quickly  as  pos- 
sible." 

Arriving  at  the  hospital  the  best  doctors  were  called  into  consultation.  They 
marveled,  when  they  had  Carlton  on  the  operating  table,  that  he  helped  to  diagnose 
his  own  case.  He  asked  their  opinion  about  the  possibility  of  his  living.  He  was 
informed  that  it  would  be  impossible  for  him  to  live  three  days.  He  smiled  and 
said:  "Well,  I  just  can't  die.   Life  is  sweet.    I  must  live  for  Mother." 

The  next  morning  after  the  operation  the  doctors  expected  him  to  be  uncon- 
scious, but  when  they  opened  the  door  of  his  room  he  greeted  them  and  said : 
"Good  morning,  doctors.    I  have  a  hard  fight  before  me,  but  I  am  going  to  win." 

Awaking  from  a  short  sleep  he  saw  a  minister  standing  over  him  and  he  said : 
"Young  man,  I  have  come  to  have  you  make  peace  with  God  before  the  end." 
Carlton  asked  him  to  please  leave  the  room;  that  his  church  had  always  taught 
him  to  love  God. 

For  two  weeks  after  his  loved  ones  arrived  from  the  West  they  tried  to  locate 
the  Elders,  and  finally  located  President  Rowan.  President  Rowan  and  Brother 
Baxter  came  to  the  hospital  and  administered  to  Carlton,  and  from  that  time  on 
Carlton  began  to  improve.  So  wonderful  was  his  recovery  that  the  doctors 
marveled.  They  were  impressed  with  the  fine  young  missionaries  who  came  from 
time  to  time  to  visit.  They  were  eager  to  know  who  the  group  of  fine  men  were. 
Those  doctors  did  not  take  credit  unto  themselves  for  this  miraculous  recovery, 
but  said :  "It  is  Carlton's  faith  in  God  that  has  accomplished  this."  Another 
one  said :  "Give  all  the  credit  to  God.  It  is  Carlton's  fine  clean  living  and  his  faith 
that  has  accomplished  this." 

I  talked  with  a  lady,  the  sister  of  the  president  of  that  stake,  yester- 
day, and  she  told  me  that  he  was  continuing  to  improve.  They  removed 
him  from  the  hospital  in  Houston,  and  he  has  been  brought  back  to  Wyo- 
ming, where  he  continues  to  improve.  We  feel  that  the  Lord  was  unusu- 
ally kind  to;  him. 

During  the  summer  we  have  had  a  little  sickness  among  the 
Elders.  One  of  them  developed  heart  trouble,  circulatory  trouble 
of  the  heart.  We  took  him  to  one  of  the  best  heart  specialists  in 
the  South,  and  discovered,  when  we  found  this  man,  that  he  was  a 
friend  to  the  Church ;  he  was  a  friend  to  the  members  of  the 
Church.  He  was  born  and  raised  in  Canada,  a  highly  educated  man. 
He  told  me  with  his  own  lips  that  in  1907  he  spent  three  months 
practicing  in  the  state  of  Utah,  in  a  little  country  town,  and  that 
his  association  with  the  Mormon  people  had  been  most  pleasant. 
Said  he  to  me:  "Brother  Rowan,  I  realize  that  there  is  power  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 


ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 


23 


This  doctor  gave  a  remarkable  testimony  of  a  case  of  healing 
that  came  under  his  observation.  He  said  a  woman  had  been  at- 
tended by  a  midwife  and  she,  after  several  days,  had  developed 
blood-poisoning  and  was  in  a  very  critical  condition.  They  called 
in  this  doctor.  "Too  late,"  he  said,  but  he  worked  with  all  his  might, 
with  all  the  power  he  could  muster,  and  with  all  of  the  intelli- 
gence that  he  had.  He  said  two  men  came  into  the  home  and 
asked  him  if  he  would  have  any  objection  to  them  going  in  and 
administering  to  this  woman,  and  he  said :  "None  whatever."  Then 
he  asked  these  men  if  they  had  any  objection  to  his  going  in  with  them. 
He  said  this  bishop  went  in,  together  with  his  companion,  clothed  in  over- 
alls, and  one  of  them  poured  oil  on  the  head  of  this  woman.  The  other, 
in  company  with  his  companion,  laid  his  hands  upon  her  head  and  gave 
her  a  marvelous  blessing.  Then  a  beautiful  smile  came  over  her  face 
and  she  said :  "Now  I  shall  live,  doctor" ;  and  she  lived.  I  have  his 
letter  with  me,  and  he  says  in  this  letter  that  it  was  a  power  greater  than 
his  that  restored  the  life  of  that  individual. 

May  God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters.  May  you  live  your 
religion.  May  each  of  us  appreciate  our  heritage,  and  may  we 
live  in  such  a  manner  that  the  Lord  our  God  will  continue  to 
bless  us,  I  humbly  pray,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Grant  read  the  following  list  of  changes  in  Church  of- 
ficers since  the  last  April  Conference : 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS  SINCE  LAST  APRIL 

CONFERENCE 

New  Mission  Presidents: 

James  M.  Kirkham  succeeded  Miles  L.  Jones  as  President  of  the 
East  Central  States  Mission. 

Wilford  W.  Richards  succeeded  Arthur  Welling  as  President  of 
the  Northcentral  States  Mission. 

Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.  succeeded  William  R.  Sloan  as  President  of  the 
Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Alma  L.  Petersen  succeeded  Holger  M.  Larsen  as  President  of  the 
Danish  Mission. 

Roy  A.  Welker  succeeded  Oliver  H.  Budge  as  President  of  the 
German-Austrian  Mission. 

Hugo  D.  E.  Peterson  succeeded  Gustave  W.  Forsberg  as  President 
of  the  Swedish  Mission. 

New  Stake  Organized : 

South  Summit  Stake  organized,  formerly  part  of  Summit  Stake. 
Zach  J.  Oblad  appointed  President  with  Carl  Winters  as  Stake  Clerk. 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


New  Stake  Presidents : 

Bear  Lake  Stake,  George  H.  Robinson  appointed  President  to  suc- 
ceed Roy  A.  Welker. 

Alonzo  J.  Gilbert  succeeded  J.  Fred  Corbett  as  President  of  Idaho 
Stake. 

Heber  C.  Williams  succeeded  J.  Arthur  Christensen  as  President  of 
the  North  Sevier  Stake. 

Thomas  M.  Irvine  appointed  President  of  the  North  Weber  Stake 
to  succeed  Francis  W.  Stratford  (deceased). 

W.  Heber  Wilde  succeeded  W.  Oriel  Stephens  as  President  of  the 
Summit  Stake. 

New  Wards  Organised : 

Jackson  Ward,  Teton  Stake,  formerly  an  Independent  Branch. 
Boulder  Ward,  Garfield  Stake,  formerly  an  Independent  Branch. 
Glendale  Ward,  Maricopa  Stake,  was  part  of  the  Phoenix  2d  Ward. 

New  Independent  Branches : 

Caldwell  and  Meridian  Branches  in  the  Boise  Stake. 

Wards  Disorganized : 

Clarion  Ward,  Gunnison  Stake,  membership  transferred  to  Cen- 
terfield  and  Hamilton  Wards. 

Star  Line  Ward,  Lethbridge  Stake,  became  part  of  Claresholm 
Ward. 

General  Authorities  who  have  Passed  Away : 

President  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  First  Presidency. 

Charles  H.  Hart,  one  of  the  Presidents  of  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy. 

Stake  Presidents  who  have  Passed  Azvay : 

President  Francis  W.  Stratford  of  the  North  Weber  Stake. 

Joseph  C.  McFarlane,  Second  Counselor  in  Mt.  Ogden  Stake  Presi- 
dency. 

Bishops  who  have  Passed  Away: 

Bishop  Fred  Wall  of  the  Jensen  Ward,  Uintah  Stake. 

Elder  Silas  A.  Koyle,  President  of  the  Hazel  Branch,  Burley  Stake. 

Others  who  have  Passed  Away : 

Elder  Franklin  S.  Richards,  General  Church  Attorney. 

Daniel  S.  Spencer,  Retired  General  Passenger  Agent,  Union  Pacific 
System. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 
Elder  Alonzo  J.  Gilbert,  President  of  the  Idaho  Stake,  pronounced 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


25 


FIRST  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  at  2  o'clock,  Fri- 
day afternoon,  October  5. 

The  Singing  Mothers  (Relief  Society  Chorus),  under  the  direction 
of  Sister  Charlotte  O.  Sackett,  furnished  the  music  for  this  meeting. 

The  Singing  Mothers'  Chorus  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Zach  J.  Oblad,  President 
of  the  South  Summit  Stake. 

A  sacred  anthem,  "God  is  my  Shepherd,"  (Schubert)  was  ren- 
dered by  The  Singing  Mothers. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

For  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  century  it  has  been  my  good  fortune 
and  cherished  privilege  to  labor  with  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Pres- 
ident Charles  H.  Hart  and  Judge  Franklin  S.  Richards.  I  sincerely  hope 
and  pray  that  when  my  work  is  finished  in  this  sphere  I  shall  be  worthy  to 
continue  to  labor  with  them. 

During  the  past  month  it  was  my  pleasure  to  accompany  the  taber- 
nacle choir  on  an  historic  venture.  After  some  weeks  of  negotiations 
and  feverish  days  preparing  for  the  trip,  days  that  those  who  accompanied 
us  little  realized  were  trying,  for  to  make  the  selection  of  those  who  were 
to  go  and  try  to  pacify  those  who  could  not  go  gave  to  me  and  some  of  my 
associates  sleepless  and  restless  nights,  and  days  filled  with  concern — on 
the  8th  of  last  month  the  train  with  more  than  three  hundred  people  left 
for  the  East.  The  joy  of  that  group  was  increased  when  they  found  that 
we  were  to  be  accompanied  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  President 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  I  believe  that  the  first  interesting  incident  occurred 
when  an  order  was  placed  by  the  dining  car  service  for  750  bottles  of 
milk.  It  was  an  unusual  order,  and  I  think  the  largest  that  has  ever  been 
let  by  the  dining  car  service  for  one  train.  It  was  a  tribute  to  the  teach- 
ing of  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

Our  trip  was  uneventful  until  we  reached  Chicago,  where  we  quickly 
boarded  buses  and  were  taken  to  our  hotel  and  then  to  the  Fair  grounds. 
We  were  about  twelve  minutes  late  with  our  first  concert.  It  was  not 
altogether  our  fault ;  the  proper  arrangements  had  not.  been  made  and 
suitable  dressing  rooms  had  not  been  provided  for  such  a  large  group. 

After  the  choir  began  its  concert  I  took  my  position  outside  where 
I  could  see  and  hear,  accompanied  by  the  representative  of  the  Ford  Ex- 
position, with  whom  we  had  carried  on  our  negotiations,  this  company 
having  assisted  in  paying  the  expenses  of  the  trip.    He  said  nothing 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


until  the  concert  was  over,  and  I  turned  to  him  and  asked  what  he  thought 
of  it? 

"It  is  more  than  I  expected.  We  did  not  even  dream  that  we  were 
getting  anything  like  this,"  was  his  answer. 

Each  day,  during  the  time  that  we  were  there,  their  statement  of  ap- 
preciation was  more  pronounced.  On  the  first  day  they  invited  Presi- 
dents Grant  and  Clark  and  their  party  to  a  luncheon  in  the  Ford  offices 
on  the  Fair  grounds. 

It  was  an  inspiring  sight  during  that  week  to  see  the  people  come 
into  the  great  Ford  Gardens,  two  thousand  or  more  at  nearly  every 
performance.  At  night  nearly  every  seat  was  taken.  Several  nights 
every  seat  was  taken,  and  one  night  nearly  a  thousand,  as  near  as  I 
could  reckon,  sat  for  more  than  a  half  hour  in  a  rain  storm  to  hear  the 
balance  of  the  program. 

During  the  week  we  were  invited  to  sing  on  the  street  in  Chicago. 
We  left  the  hotel  where  we  were  staying,  in  a  fleet  of  Ford  cars  as  the 
guests  of  the  Ford  Motor  Company,  and  were  escorted  through  the 
streets  of  Chicago  to  the  plaza  between  the  Daily  News  and  Chicago  Civic 
Opera  buildings,  where  the  concert  was  given.  It  was  a  wonderful  sight. 
As  far  as  we  could  see  the  streets  were  filled  with  people  anxious  to  hear. 
And  as  the  choir  began  to  sing  the  windows  of  the  buildings  thirty  and 
forty  stories  high  were  filled  with  people.  As  I  stood  there  and  listened 
I  thought  of  the  contrast  when  about  ninety  years  before  our  fathers 
had  been  driven  from  a  city  in  Illinois  by  mob  violence,  and  now  we, 
their  children,  had  returned,  and  on  every  hand  found  the  spirit  of  kind- 
ness, and  words  of  encouragement  and  praise. 

After  the  concert  we  were  taken  to  the  Fair  grounds,  where  our 
afternoon  concert  was  given,  and  afterwards  from  there  to  the  Ford 
executive  offices  in  their  exhibition  building,  which  had  been  cleared  of 
office  furniture,  and  the  entire  group  were  seated  at  tables  and  served  a 
delightful  luncheon. 

To  my  mind,  the  trip  was  a  most  wonderful  event.  We  started  on 
it  with  the  spirit  of  the  Psalmist  of  old : 

But  I  am  poor  and  sorrowful :  let  thy  salvation,  O  God,  set  me  up  on  high. 
I  will  praise  the  name  of  God  with  a  song,  and  will  magnify  him  with  thanks- 
giving. 

This  also  shall  please  the  Lord. 

The  humble  shall  see  this,  and  be  glad :  and  your  hearts  shall  live  that  seek 
God. 

For  the  Lord  heareth  the  poor,  and  despiseth  not  his  prisoners. 
Let  the  heaven  and  earth  praise  him,  the  seas,  and  everything  that  moveth 
therein. 

For  God  will  save  Zion,  and  will  build  the  cities  of  Judah :  that  they  may 
dwell  there,  and  have  it  in  possession. 

The  seed  also  of  his  servants  shall  inherit  it ;  and  they  that  love  his  name 
shall  dwell  therein. 

On  the  Sunday  before  we  left  on  our  return  trip,  through  the  efforts 
of  the  Chicago  branch  presidency,  we  were  permitted  to  hold  services 
in  the  Rockefeller  church  on  the  campus  of  the  Chicago  University.  The 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


27 


building  was  filled.  During  the  service  President  Grant  addressed  the 
congregation  briefly,  referring  to  the  Articles  of  Faith  of  the  Church  and 
the  Prophet's  statement  on  government.  His  clear  voice  carried  to  all 
parts  of  the  building  and  was  very  impressive.  It  was  not  the  most 
pleasant  place  to  sing  in,  because  of  the  high  ceilings  and  hard  walls, 
which  caused  the  sound  to  come  back  at  the  singers  and  interfere  some- 
what with  the  tone.  But  it  was  a  delightful  experience  and  we  were 
happy  to  be  welcomed  in  that  way. 

On  our  return  trip  we  stopped  at  Independence,  Missouri,  and  other 
places  from  which  our  forefathers  had  been  driven.  Upon  arriving  in 
Independence  we  gathered  at  the  new  auditorium  of  the  Reorganized 
Church.  We  were  received  in  a  spirit  of  great  friendliness.  As  President 
Grant  and  Frederick  M.  Smith,  president  of  the  Reorganized  Church, 
made  their  way  from  their  seats  in  the  body  of  the  house  to  the  platform 
there  was  great  applause.  This,  too,  was  not  a  pleasant  place  to  sing  in, 
for  the  unfinished  condition  of  the  building  was  such  that  it  was  difficult 
for  the  singers  to  hear  the  accompaniment,  and  the  steep  incline  where 
the  seats  were  placed  made  it  impossible  to  develop  a  satisfactory  tone 
quality.  But  the  warmth  of  our  welcome  I  am  sure  caused  all  to  forget 
the  unfinished  condition  of  the  building  which  interfered  so  much  with 
the  music.  Again  we  were  impressed  with  the  remarks  of  our  President 
as  he  stated  the  belief  of  this  people  and  referred  to  the  revelations  of 
Joseph  Smith,  which  should'  also  be  believed  in  by  his  descendants,  our 
kinsmen,  who  were  entertaining  us  at  that  time.  In  all  it  was  a  choice 
occasion,  and  we  came  away  feeling  that  it  was  good  to  have  been  there. 

The  last  stop  was  at  Denver,  where  Brother  Daynes  had  arranged 
with  one  of  the  newspapers  for  our  appearance  in  the  large  Denver  Civic 
Auditorium.  This  was  an  inspiring  sight.  The  place  was  filled,  even 
the  gallery  back  of  the  drop  curtain  being  fairly  well  filled  with  people, 
and  the  chairs  on  the  stage  surrounding  the  choir  also.  As  the  President 
made  his  appearance  on  the  platform  to  acknowledge  their  greetings  and 
welcome,  there  was  great  applause.  He  spoke  for  only  a  few  minutes, 
expressing  appreciation,  and  they  applauded  him  as  he  left,  as  they  also 
applauded  the  choir  for  their  singing.  It  was  a  most  wonderful  trip,  not 
primarily  a  missionary  trip,  but  we  hope,  through  the  service  rendered, 
to  draw  to  the  attention  of  those  who  were  unacquainted  with  us,  some- 
thing of  the  ideals  and  purposes  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints ;  and  I  am  sure  that  the  fifty  or  sixty  thousand  people  who 
came  to  hear  us,  and  the  untold  numbers  who  listened  in  over  the  air  dur- 
ing each  concert  were  well  pleased  with  what  they  heard.  We  feel  that 
the  trip  was  worth  while. 

The  choir  members  had  with  them  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel;  they 
were  exemplary.  At  times  I  thought  I  became  a  nuisance  to  them,  for  it 
was  my  task  to  keep  them  on  the  job  and  to  see  that  their  concerts  started 
on  time.  They  were  enthused  over  the  privilege  of  going  and  each  felt 
that  the  success  of  the  whole  venture  rested  upon  him  or  her. 

As  we  left  the  hotel  and  were  settling  our  accounts,  the  hotel  man- 
ager said:    "I  hope  you  will  come  again.    We  have  never  before  had 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


such  a  gathering  in  this  hotel.  The  maids  have  had  very  little  to  do.  We 
have  found  no  cigarette  stumps,  no;  cigars,  no  burnt  furniture  or  linen, 
and  no  whiskey  bottles.  Your  group  have  been  orderly ;  iwe  have  hardly 
known  that  they  were  here.   It  was  a  pleasure  to  have  you  with  us." 

I  think  that  through  our  actions  we  preached  the  Gospel. 

On  the  Fair  grounds  we  were  given  reduced  rates  for  the  choir  mem- 
bers. Their  badges  took  them  into  many  of  the  concessions  and  many 
invited  them  in  without  cost.  We  found  a  friendly  attitude  wherever  we 
went  and  came  away  feeling  that  we  had  performed  a  wonderful  mis- 
sionary service.  We  had  in  mind  constantly  the  saying  of  the  Lord : 
"My  soul  delighteth  in  the  song  of  the  heart ;  yea,  the  song  of  the  right- 
eous is  a  prayer  unto  me,  and  it  shall  be  answered  with  a  blessing  on  their 
heads."  We  wanted  a  blessing.  We  felt  the  Lord  was  fulfilling  his 
promise  upon  our  heads,  and  we  pray  that  his  blessings  shall  continue 
to  be  upon  us,  that  we  may  continue  to  serve  him  in  song,  in  faith,  and 
in  a  desire  to  be  worthy  of  the  blessings  which  he  has  bestowed  upon  us 
and  which  he  has  promised  to  bestow  upon  us  all  through  our  faithful- 
ness.   May  he  so  bless  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  of  again 
attending  conference.  Since  I  was  here  before  I  have  undergone 
a  serious  operation,  but  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  brought  me 
through.  Through  my  own  carelessness  I  have  contracted  a  cold 
which  makes  me  hoarse. 

During  the  past  six  months  we  have  had  the  pleasure  of  hav- 
ing with  us  in  the  Canadian  Mission  Brother  James  H.  Wallis  and 
his  wife,  he  acting  as  a  patriarch  in  the  mission  for  the  purpose 
of  giving  blessings  to  the  worthy  Saints  therein.  He  has  been  with 
us  now  a  little  over  three  months,  and  has  nearly  completed  his 
work  there.  He  is  now  working  on  the  recording  of  the  blessings 
he  has  given,  that  they  may  be  mailed  out  to  the  respective  mem- 
bers. It  has  been  a  spiritual  blessing  to  us ;  we  do  appreciate  the 
inspiration  that  came  to  the  brethren  to  send  Brother  Wallis  into  our 
midst.  I  think  that  from  there  he  will  go  into  the  Northern  States, 
the  North  Central  States,  and  the  Southern  States  missions  for  the  same 
purpose. 

In  visiting  with  the  members,  talking  with  them,  and  going 
confidentially  into  their  lives,  much  good  has  been  accomplished 
by  Brother  Wallis  in  bringing  the  Saints  to  a  realization  that  the 
blessings  of  God  can  come  only  from  living  his  commandments. 
All  kinds  of  blessings  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  but  to  make  them 
a  reality  in  our  lives  depends  upon  how  we  live.  Many  who  have 
never  thought  of  it  in  that  light  have  discovered  that,  in  our 
Church,  activity  is  life  and  inactivity  is  spiritual  death.  Wonderful 
promises  have  been  given,  depending  upon  their  living  nearer  to 


ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 


29 


the  Lord,  keeping  his  commandments,  observing  the  Sabbath  day 
and  having  prayer  in  their  homes,  living  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and 
keeping  the  law  of  tithing.  Some  of  them  were  under  the  impression 
that  when  they  were  in  debt  they  owed  no  tithing,  and  there  are 
hundreds  of  our  people  who  are  in  debt;  so,  of  course,  comparatively 
little  tithing  has  been  paid  under  those  conditions.  But  they  have 
now  become  convinced  that  the  Lord  expects  one-tenth  of  all  that 
he  gives  unto  them,  whether  or  not  they  are  in  debt,  and  that 
leaves  them  the  ninety  per  cent  with  which  to  take  care  of  their 
own  affairs,  which  includes  their  indebtedness.  I  think  it  will  mean 
much  to  the  spiritual  life  of  our  mission. 

I  do  not  know  of  any  time  since  I  have  been  in  the  mission 
when  our  missionaries  were  more  united,  nor  do  I  know  of  a  time 
when  they  have  better  understood  the  responsibility  of  the  position 
they  occupy  and  what  is  required  of  them.  I  feel  that  to  a  great 
extent  they  are  working  because  of  their  love  of  the  work  rather 
than  merely  measuring  up  to  the  regulations,  and  in  so  doing  they 
are  naturally  keeping  the  missionary  regulations. 

I  pray  God  that  he  may  bless  us,  that  we  may  realize  that  he 
has  given  unto  us  the  Gospel  of  his  dear  Son ;  that  it  is  given  unto 
us  to  be  lived,  not  to  be  stored  away  as  something  that  is  merely 
beautiful  and  grand,  but  something  that  we  should  live,  that  it 
may  be  exemplified  in  our  lives,  that  we  might  eventually  be  fitted 
for  an  inheritance  in  his  celestial  kingdom. 

I  bring  greetings  to  you  from  the  missionaries  of  the  Canadian 
Mission.  They  love  their  work,  they  dread  sickness  and  anything 
else  that  interferes  with  their  work.  They  are  having  an  enjoyable 
time  together.  We  love  the  work  in  the  mission  field.  To  me 
there  is  no  more  glorious  blessing  that  has  come  into  our  lives 
than  has  come  to  Sister  Bluth  and  myself  in  missionary  service. 
We  rejoice  in  it,  we  thank  the  Lord  for  the  privilege  of  being  in  the 
mission  field.  May  his  Spirit  attend  us  continuously  in  our  labors, 
that  we  may  serve  him  faithfully  all  the  days  of  our  lives,  that 
we  may  realize  in  our  lives  the  things  for  which  we  hope  and 
aspire,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  have  been  encouraged  this  morning  and  this  afternoon  with 
the  advice,  counsel  and  testimony,  and  the  remarks  of  my  brethren 
concerning  our  departed  dead.  The  thought  occurred  to  me,  what 
a  toll  has  been  taken  during  the  last  three  or  four  years  from 
among  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church :  President  Anthony 
W.  Ivins,  President  Charles  W.  Nibley,  Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney, 
Elder  James  E.  Talmage,  President  B.  H.  Roberts,  President  Rey 
L.  Pratt,  President  Charles  H.  Hart,  and  Patriarch  Hyrum  G. 
Smith — almost  one-third.  But  while  I  have  missed  them  and  shall 
miss  them  and  their  tremendous  influence  for  good,  and  the  power 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  their  example,  what  a  blessing  it  is  for  those  on  the  other  side 
where  they  will  labor  with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his 
associates,  in  carrying  on  the  great  work  of  redemption  in  the 
spirit  world,  where  millions  are  waiting  for  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

And  so  our  loss  is  someone  else's  benefit — the  law  of  compen- 
sation still  applies. 

I  have  been  thinking  very  much  lately  concerning  our  service, 
one  to  another,  and  to  the  world. 

On  the  last  day  of  the  Master's  public  ministry  he  left  Bethany 
accompanied  by  his  disciples  and  made  his  way  to  the  temple. 
The  usual  crowd,  including  those  who  were  opposed  to  him,  met 
him  in  the  temple  courts.  The  Pharisees  and  Sadducees  plied  him 
with  questions,  after  which  a  lawyer  or  Scribe  inquired  of  him, 
"Master,  which  is  the  greatest  commandment  of  all?"  The  Savior 
quoted  verses  4  and  5  of  the  6th  chapter  of  Deuteronomy  and  part 
of  the  18th  verse  of  the  19th  chapter  of  Leviticus.  It  was  required 
of  every  Jew  to  repeat  the  words  contained  in  these  verses  twice 
each  day.  Therefore,  his  critics  well  knew  the  source  of  his  an- 
swer. This  is  the  answer  the  Master  gave  to  the  lawyer's  question : 

The  first  of  all  the  commandments  is,  Hear,  O  Israel:  The  Lord  our 
God  is  one  Lord: 

And  thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all 
thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind,  and  with  all  thy  strength ;  this  is  the  first 
commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like,  namely  this,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself.  There  is  none  other  commandment  greater  than  these. 

And  the  scribe  said  unto  him,  Well,  Master,  thou  hast  said  the  truth: 
for  there  is  one  God;  and  there  is  none  other  but  he: 

And  to  love  him  with  all  the  heart,  and  with  all  the  understanding,  and 
with  all  the  soul,  and  with  all  the  strength,  and  to  love  his  neighbor  as 
himself,  is  more  than  all  whole  burnt  offerings  and  sacrifices. 

And  when  Jesus  saw  that  he  answered  discreetly,  he  said  unto  him, 
Thou  art  not  far  from  the  Kingdom  of  God. 

Thus  the  Master  made  clear  to  his  audience  and  to  the  lawyer 
and  to  future  generations  that  the  first  commandments  are  to  love 
God  and  to  love  our  fellow  men.  Love  translates  itself  into  service. 
The  Master  himself  exemplified  his  doctrine  by  service  to  his  fel- 
low men.  Again  and  again  did  he  show  that  love,  indeed,  it  can 
only  be  evidenced  by  service.  On  another  occasion  he  said  to  his 
disciples : 

Whosover  will  be  great  among  you,  let  him  be  your  minister;  and 
whosoever  will  be  chief  among  you,  let  him  be  your  servant.  (Matt.  20:28.) 

The  Master  himself  performed  the  greatest  possible  service 
to  humanity,  for  he  spent  three  years  of  his  life  teaching  men  how 
to  live  and  how  to  obtain  eternal  life,  and  he  laid  down  his  life  that 
the  resurrection  and  eternal  life  might  be  brought  to  pass. 

To  love  God  means  that  we  will  not  only  keep  his  command- 
ments, but  that  we  will  qualify  ourselves  for  the  duties  and  re- 
sponsibilities required  of  all  who  accept  the  Gospel  to  proclaim  the 
restored  Gospel  and  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


31 


Smith.  I  like  the  symbol  found  on  an  old  Roman  coin  which  bore 
the  design  of  an  ox  standing  between  a  plow  and  an  altar,  thus 
signifying  its  readiness  for  either  service  or  sacrifice.  No  symbol 
could  more  beautifully  represent  the  attitude  of  the  true  servant 
of  the  Master — ready,  when  the  Master  wills,  to  toil  in  his  service ; 
and  just  as  ready,  when  a  call  comes,  to  sacrifice  everything,  if 
necessary  for  the  Gospel's  sake. 

As  to  our  neighbor,  I  like  the  thought  expressed  by  King  Ben- 
jamin in  the  2nd  chapter  of  the  book  of  Mosiah :  He  who  is  in 
the  service  of  his  fellow  men  is  in  the  service  of  his  God.  Today, 
men  see  more  clearly  than  ever  before  that  we  are  our  brothers' 
keepers.  How  great,  therefore,  is  the  need  of  keeping  constantly 
before  us  the  second  great  commandment,  and  how  far  we  are 
from  observing  it  as  the  Lord  requires,  and  we  should  frequently 
ask  ourselves,  What  manner  of  men  and  women  are  we? 

The  Lord  has  said  this  in  Section  58  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants : 

Verily,  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do 
many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness; 

For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein  they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And 
inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward. 

But  he  that  doeth  not  anything  until  he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth  a 
commandment  with  doubtful  heart,  and  keepeth  it  with  slothfulness,  the 
same  is  damned. 

If  we  are  profitable  servants,  we  will  go  beyond  the  routine 
requirements  of  our  membership  in  the  Church,  and  we  will  devote 
ourselves  more  than  ever  to  the  service  of  our  fellow  men. 

Where  shall  we  look  for  service?  We  must  not  repeat  the 
experience  of  the  knight  in  the  ancient  tale,  who  left  his  home 
when  a  young  man  to  find  the  Holy  Grail,  or  cup,  out  of  which 
our  Savior  drank,  and  came  back  an  old  white-haired  man,  only 
to  find  the  grail  in  his  own  house,  where  it  had  been  all  those 
years. 

As  Latter-day  Saints,  there  are  many  avenues  for  service  in 
the  organizations  of  the  Church.  We  can  be  better  neighbors  and 
help  the  poor,  the  unfortunate,  the  aged,  the  feeble,  the  widow, 
and  the  orphan,  who  live  around  us.  Fortunate  are  we  if  we  have 
learned  the  great  truth  that  happiness  is  not  determined  by  how 
much  we  get  out  of  life,  but  what  we  put  into  life  in  the  way  ofj 
helpfulness  and  service  for  others.  For  there  is  a  richness  in  life 
that  will  come  to  every  Latter-day  Saint  once  he  has  experienced 
the  joy  that  is  to  be  found  in  helpful  service  to  others.  The  happiest 
people  on  earth  are  those  who  contribute  to  the  welfare  of  their 
neighbors  and  friends. 

The  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  those  who  preside 
in  the  stakes  and  wards  and  missions,  use  their  time  and  talents 
in  the  service  of  God  and  their  fellow  men  and  for  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Church  of  God  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  and  for 
the  dead. 

There  is  a  wonderful  field  for  all  officers  and  members  of  the 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


quorums  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  to  increase  the  faith  of 
their  members  and  to  see  that  every  person  holding  this  Priest- 
hood is  giving  service  to  the  Lord  and  to  his  fellow  men. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric  deeply  appreciate  the  untiring  labors 
of  the  bishops  of  wards  and  those  associated  with  them  in  develop- 
ing and  training  the  youth  of  Zion  who  hold  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood. The  result  of  their  labors  is  already  being  noticed  in  the 
improved  standards  of  the  members  of  this  Priesthood.  There  are 
also  under  the  direction  of  the  bishopric  approximately  30,000 
men  holding  the  Priesthood  whose  duty  it  is  to  visit  the  homes 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  monthly.  They  go  in  the  true  spirit  of 
neighborly  help  to  the  members  of  their  flock. 

On  this  Temple  Block  thousands  of  men  and  women  hear  the 
message  of  the  Gospel,  in  addition  to  those  who  are  reached  by 
the  labor  of  the  missionaries  who  are  out  in  the  world  proclaim- 
ing the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  divine 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  By  this  means  the  Church 
is  exalted  and  advanced  in  its  great  purpose  due  to  the  devotion 
and  labors  of  faithful  men  and  women. 

The  question  might  be  asked,  Is  there  recompense  for  all  this 
labor?  I  say,  Yes,  for  the  Lord  has  said: 

And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repentance 
unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be 
your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father. 

No  person  can  be  happy  in  this  Church  unless  he  is  working 
for  it,  praying  for  it,  and  living  for  it.  Service  in  the  Church  is  a 
safeguard  to  youth.  It  is  a  blessing  and  protection  to  those  of 
middle  age.  It  is  a  crown  of  satisfaction  to  the  aged.  Our  testi- 
monies and  appreciation  of  this  Latter-day  work  will  grow  in 
proportion  to  the  service  we  render  our  Master,  for  service  in  the 
Church  will  bring  joy,  satisfaction,  happiness,  contentment,  and 
appreciation. 

I  pray  that  we  may  keep  these  two  great  commandments  con- 
stantly in  mind  and  in  the  spirit  and  intent  of  the  Master's  answer 
to  the  lawyer  on  that  fateful  last  day  of  his  ministry.  Let  us  look 
around  us  for  further  opportunities  to  be  useful  in  the  communities 
where  we  live,  that  we  may  become  more  profitable  servants  in 
the  cause  of  our  Master. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  my  meat  and  drink.  I  love  to 
serve ;  I  want  to  serve ;  I  want  to  labor  as  long  as  I  have  the  ability 
to  do  it  in  the  cause  of  the  Master  and  of  my  fellow  men. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  true ;  it  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation.  God  lives.  Jesus  Christ  is  our  Redeemer.  Joseph 
Smith  came  in  these  latter  days  to  restore  the  Gospel  and  establish 
the  holy  Priesthood  preparatory  to  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  God, 
when  his  kingdom  shall  be  established,  and  he  shall  reign  in  God's 
name  upon  the  earth. 

I  pray  that  we  may  be  blessed  with  this  deep  sense  of  service 
and  appreciation  of  our  opportunities  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


33 


The  Singing  Mothers  sang  "He  shall  feed  His  Flock,"  (The  Mes- 
siah.) 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

A  year  ago  while  occupying  this  position  I  advocated  patience, 
— forbearance  in  reaching  hasty  and  ill-considered  conclusions  re- 
specting the  efficacy  of  the  new  plans  which  had  been  put  into  opera- 
tion to  relieve  our  distresses  and  a  patient  compliance  with  their 
requirements.  I  believed  then  as  I  believe  now,  that  the  quickest 
and  surest  way  to  determine  the  real  worth  of  any  newly  enacted 
policy  is  to  give  it  a  fair  trial.  I  believe  still  that  patience  is  neces- 
sary in  the  appraisement  of  the  forces  which  have  been  set  in  action 
for  the  country's  deliverance.  However,  I  am  equally  well  con- 
vinced that  some  things  other  than  patience  are  requisite  if  we 
would  make  any  real  contribution  to  the  ultimate  end  that  every 
one  desires. 

PHASES  OF  RELIEF  PROGRAM  CAUSE  CONCERN 

I  have  had  a  limited  opportunity  to  observe  at  rather  close 
range,  some  of  the  operations  of  the  great  relief  program  which  our 
government  is  seeking  to  carry  out.  There  are  phases  of  it  which 
give  cause  for  much  concern.  Some  of  these  items  would  not  be 
appropriate  for  discussion  here,  but  there  are  one  or  two  things 
which  I  feel  can  be  mentioned  with  propriety  and  I  hope  with  profit. 
The  expenditures  for  relief,  both  direct  and  indirect  are  enormous, 
and  the  numbers  of  recipients  almost  go  beyond  the  believable.  In 
our  own  state,  according  to  the  latest  figures  obtainable  21.99%  of 
the  entire  state  population  is  on  the  relief  rolls  and  in  some  counties 
the  proportion  of  the  population  receiving  relief  runs  as  high  as 
46%.  Where  these  figures  prevail,  it  means  that  nearly  one-half 
of  all  the  people  have  demonstrated  to  the  satisfaction  of  those  in 
charge  that  they  are  fit  subjects  for  relief  and  are  actually  in  receipt 
of  the  charities  bestowed.  I  have  not  included  in  these  statements 
vast  numbers  of  people  who  have  been  beneficiaries  under  certain 
governmental  emergency  measures  which  have  been  calculated  to 
save  to  the  owners,  homes  and  properties  by  the  extension  of  extra- 
ordinary credit  facilities,  I  am  limiting  the  number  only  to  those 
who  are  on  the  relief  rolls  of  the  counties  and  municipalities.  When 
I  mention  the  percentages  in  our  own  state  I  wish  it  known  that 
our  numbers  are  but  representative  of  other  states  of  the  union. 

INDICATION  OF  SUFFERING  AND  DISTRESS 

I  do  not  see  how  any  thoughtful  person  can  contemplate  this 
situation  without  grave  concern.  I  feel  that  concern  very  deeply, 
because  this  astonishing  information  indicates  such  a  large  meas- 
ure of  want,  failure,  suffering  and  distress  among  the  people.  No 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


one  can  think  of  it  without  having  his  sympathies  touched.  My 
first  desire  would  be  of  course,  that  the  cause  of  these  distressing 
conditions  might  be  removed,  that  we  might  immediately  have  such 
industrial  recovery  as  to  give  all  opportunity  for  work  and  a  good 
livelihood.  This  is  the  desire  of  all,  but  how  to  bring  about  such  a 
recovery  is  the  subject  for  some  of  the  hottest  debates  and  con- 
tentions we  have  witnessed  in  this  country  for  many  a  year. 

Into  these  I  will  not  enter.  Suffice  it  to  say  the  conditions  are 
here.  How  long  they  will  last  no  one  knows.  We  hope  not  for 
long.  While  they  do  last  they  are  the  immediate  and  pressing  con- 
cern of  every  citizen  of  the  country.  No  conscientious  man  nor 
woman  can  ignore  them,  for  even  from  a  selfish  point  of  view  they 
affect  him. 

I  take  it  for  granted  therefore,  that  everyone  would  like  to  do 
something  to  help.  I  am  going  to  take  the  liberty  of  making  some 
suggestions  which  I  think  can  be  adopted  by  almost  every  one 
who  does  desire  to  help.  I  am  not  going  to  speak  now  of  the  giving  of 
financial  aid.    I  hope  to  mention  that  later. 

MAINTAIN  SELF-RESPECT 

It  is  my  first  suggestion  that  every  man,  woman  and  child  ad- 
versely affected  by  this  "depression"  be  encouraged  to  maintain  self 
respect.  I  earnestly  hope  in  what  I  am  about  to  say  I  shall  give 
no  offense.  I  assure  you  none  is  intended.  I  desire  only  to  be  kind, 
but  I  know  it  is  necessary  sometimes  to  be  frank  and  seemingly 
cruel  in  order  to  be  kind.  I  know  that  there  have  been  many  hun- 
dreds of  self-reliant,  self-respecting,  proud  people  who  have  been 
humiliated  to  the  dust  by  the  hard  circumstances  which  have  been 
forced  upon  them.  My  heart  goes  out  to  them.  I  pity  them  for  the 
humiliation  they  have  sustained,  but  strange  as  it  may  seem,  for 
their  own  good,  I  want  them  to  continue  to  be  humiliated  in  their 
own  feelings  so  long  as  they  continue  to  be  the  recipients  of  char- 
itable relief.  I  said,  mind  you,  in  their  own  feelings.  I  ,want  no 
undue  embarrassment  heaped  upon  them,  but  I  want  them  to  be  so 
manly  and  so  womanly  in  all  those  terms  imply  as  to  be  grieved  in 
spirit  when  they  cannof  be  self-reliant  and  reasonably  independent. 

FACTORS  IN  ECONOMIC  AND  SPIRITUAL  WELFARE 

There  is  a  pride  in  vanity  "that  goeth  before  a  fall,"  but  that 
pride  in  a  man  which  makes  him  cherish  his  own  good  name  and 
gives  him  the  courage  to  work  to  sustain  it,  that  pride  which  makes 
him  shun  the  bondage  of  undischargeable  obligations,  that  pride 
which  keeps  his  head  high  even  in  poverty,  conscious  that  he  has 
always  been  honorable  and  has  given  the  best  that  was  in  him,  that 
pride  I  admire.  I  think  too  it  is  essential  for  the  preservation  of 
some  of  the  best  things  within  our  civilization.  Self-respect,  self- 
reliance,  and  the  pride  of  achievement  I  look  upon  as  highly  prom- 
inent factors  in  our  economic  welfare  and  in  our  spiritual  as  well. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


35 


CHARITY  SEEKERS 

Unfortunately  there  has  been  another  class  of  our  citizens  who 
have  not  had  so  much  pride  and  self-respect  and  who  have  not  been 
greatly  humiliated,  perhaps  not  humiliated  at  all  in  the  receipt  of 
those  benefactions  which  have  been  bestowed  upon  them.  They 
have  been  eager  to  receive.  I  suppose  some  of  this  class  will  al- 
ways be  with  us.  I  am  sorry  for  them  too  because  they  lack  an 
element  of  character  which  is  essential  to  success  and  enduring  hap- 
piness. 

"sponging'"  on  the  government 

Now  without  mitigation  in  the  least  of  our  sympathies  toward 
those  unfortunate  ones  actually  in  need,  the  observing  cannot  help 
but  note  that  there  is  an  ever-growing  and  deeply  regrettable  tend- 
ency to  "sponge"  on  the  government  and  take  every  gratuity  pos- 
sible to  obtain  and  this  too,  sometimes  by  representation  and  con- 
nivance, which  will  not  bear  the  light  of  truth.  It  is  true  also  that 
this  disposition  to  "sponge"  on  the  government  is  not  confined  to 
those  only  who  are  on  the  relief  rolls. 

In  the  obtaining  of  benefit  loans  and  crop  allocations  with  other 
concessions  so  lavishly  bestowed  it  has  been  manifest  in  such  degree 
and  in  such  people  as  to  be  greatly  astonishing  to  those  who  have 
the  inside  information.  Not  infrequently  does  one  hear  in  pseudo 
justification  of  these  regrettable  actions,  expressions  such  as  these — 
"Well  everybody's  getting  it,  I  might  as  well  get  my  share" — or 
"The  government  brought  on  these  conditions  they  should  get  us 
out."  I  have  been  informed  of  men  making  application  for  home 
loans  under  representations  of  distress  whose  regular  income  for 
one  month  would  be  regarded  by  many  families  as  ample  support 
for  an  entire  year. 

CONTEMPT  FOR  IMPOSTORS 

I  am  not  pointing  out  these  things  in  criticism  of  the  adminis- 
tration of  the  government's  remedial  plans,  although  I  suppose  it 
is  possible  to  detect  errors.  I  make  allowance  for  the  faults  and 
abuses  which  almost  of  necessity  must  creep  into  the  operation  of 
such  extensive  schemes  so  quickly  set  up  and  manned.  Nor  do  I 
particularly  criticize  the  plans  themselves,  not  because  I  do  not  see 
deficiencies  in  them,  but  because  I  find  it  most  difficult  to  discover 
in  my  thinking  or  from  the  suggestions  of  others,  any  satisfactory 
substitute  measures  to  take  their  place.  Here  is  where  I  feel  to 
exercise  patience,  but  I  am  not  patient  with  impostors  on  the  gov- 
ernment's generosity.  I  tell  you  these  professional  charity  seekers, 
these  "spongers"  on  public  beneficence  are  a  menace  to  the  morale 
of  our  country.  They  have  lost  self  respect,  they  have  lost  their 
honor  and  their  influence  is  pernicious.  Any  public  official  or  ad- 
ministrator who  connives  with  them  or  tolerates  their  practices  is 
even  more  deserving  of  our  contempt. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FAR-REACHING  RESULTS 

I  am  not  willing  to  take  it  for  granted  that  these  abuses  must 
be.  They  are  too  serious  and  their  results  too  far  reaching  to  go 
unchallenged.  I  fear  them,  not  only  because  they  are  costly  to  the 
public  treasury,  the  drain  on  which  is  a  matter  of  deep  concern  to 
every  American,  but  for  the  more  important  reason  which  I  have 
heretofore  indicated,  that  the  practice  of  "sponging''  on  the  gov- 
ernment is  perverting  the  finest  virtues  of  American  citizenship — 
self-respect,  self-reliance  and  integrity.  Furthermore,  I  cannot  but 
conclude  that  this  distortion  to  the  morale  of  our  people  makes  fer- 
tile ground  for  the  seeds  of  disloyalty  and  anarchy  which  those 
inimical  to  our  form  of  government  are  ever  seeking  to  sow. 

THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINT  ATTITUDE 

I  said  everyone  could  help.  I  believe  everyone  can.  I  believe 
our  Church  can  help  as  can  every  other  good  agency.  That  is  why, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  bring  this  matter  to  your  attention  here 
today.  No  Latter-day  Saint  can  tolerate  for  a  moment  an  imputa- 
tion against  his  honor  and  integrity  .  No  Latter-day  Saint  can  afford 
to  be  other  than  self-respecting  and  as  self-reliant  and  independent 
as  the  circumstances  will  possibly  permit.  We  have  been  taught 
all  during  our  history  the  gospel  of  work,  of  self-support  and  free- 
dom from  debt.  It  so  hurts  me  to  see  a  man  lose  the  pride  of  self- 
respect  and  self-reliance  that  I  could  wish  that  it  were  feasible  to 
take  an  evidence  of  obligation  for  every  gratuity  bestowed,  in  order 
that  the  recipients  might  say  that  they  had  borrowed  the  money 
and  would  pay  it  back  and  thus  not  be  humiliated  by  the  taking  of 
alms. 

TO  RESTORE  OUR  MORALE 

Morale  is  made  by  public  opinion  and  public  opinion  is  the 
composite  of  individual  opinions.  We  can  maintain  our  morale 
and  if  we  have  lost  it  in  measure,  we  can  restore  it  as  can  the  coun- 
try at  large  by  each  and  every  one  firmly  and  definitely  resolving: 
first,  that  uniler  no  circumstances  will  he  be  guilty  in  the  least  de- 
gree of  the  abuses  which  I  have  mentioned,  and  secondly,  that  to 
the  full  extent  of  his  ability  he  will  see  to  it  that  such  abuses  are  not 
tolerated  in  others.  The  cost  of  administration  of  the  relief  pro- 
gram is  already  so  enormous  (it  seems  excessive  to  us  who  ad- 
minister relief  without  cost)  that  there  must  not  be  added  to  the 
cost  any  additional  funds  for  more  supervision;  so  it  is  indispensable 
to  the  success  of  the  program  that  everyone  assume  responsibility. 
By  so  doing,  everyone  can  help.  I  do  not  know  how  long  we  shall 
retain  our  present  methods.  Whether  they  should  be  changed  is  a 
matter  scarcely  suitable  for  discussion  here,  but  I  do  know  that  so 
long  as  we  have  them,  we  have  a  duty  to  get  out  of  them  the  best 
obtainable.    That  is  possible  only  by  full  co-operation. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


37 


I  earnestly  hope  that  my  plea  here  today  will  not  be  misunder- 
stood. It  may  sound  harsh  and  unfeeling,  but  I  know  that  in  my 
own  heart  I  am  not  without  charity  and  sympathy  and  I  know  that 
my  people  are  generous  and  kind.  When  I  think  of  what  we  give 
for  charity  and  for  the  support  of  unselfish  and  noble  causes,  I  am 
grateful  and  encouraged. 

LATTER-DAY  SAINT  LIBERALITY 

I  noted  the  other  day  from  information  issued  by  the  Federal 
Department  of  Internal  Revenue,  that  the  deductible  charitable  con- 
tributions of  the  rich  men  of  America  as  shown  by  their  income  tax 
returns,  did  not  exceed  2%  of  their  net  incomes.  We  who  pay  our 
tithing  give  10%  and  to  that  we  add  many  additional  items,  so  that  „ 
when  we  make  our  income  returns  to  the  government,  if  we  are 
fortunate  enough  to  have  incomes  sufficiently  large  to  report,  it  is 
not  infrequently  the  case  that  the  15%  of  net  income  which  is  de- 
ductible for  tax  purposes  is  not  sufficient  to  cover  all  our  contribu- 
tions and  we  sometimes  pay  a  tax  on  our  gifts.  I  am  glad  of  this 
because  it  indicates  our  generosity  and  our  truly  Christian  desire  to 
help  our  fellow  man.  I  feel  that  desire.  I  want  to  continue  to  give, 
not  only  because  of  continued  need,  but  because  giving  is  the  best 
remedy  in  the  world  for  contraction  of  the  heart.  I  recommend  it 
to  all  who  suffer  from  that  malady. 

OUTLOOK  FOR  COMING  WINTER 

There  is  little  prospect  that  the  coming  winter  will  not  present 
enlarged  demands  on  our  sympathies  and  our  resources.  It  has 
been  indicated  from  Washington  that  the  state  and  local  com- 
munities may  be  obliged  to  bear  a  larger  portion  of  the  burden.  I 
hope  we  will  do  our  utmost  and  I  pray  that  no  worthy  person  who 
is  honest  and  deserving  may  be  permitted  to  suffer.  I  pray  with 
equal  fervor  that  no  person  may  become  so  dishonest  and  disloyal 
as  to  be  an  impostor  on  the  generosity  of  our  great  merciful  gov- 
ernment which  is  seeking  so  diligently  to  relieve  our  distresses. 

BASIS  OF  MUTUAL  CONFIDENCE 

Common  honesty  is  the  basis  of  mutual  confidence.  If  we  lose 
confidence  in  each  other  we  are  lost.  We  can't  trust  those  who  cheat 
the  government.  It  is  as  dishonest  as  it  is  to  cheat  the  Church  or 
each  other.  No  one  can  deceive  and  cheat  and  be  a  Christian.  He 
may  be  called  a  Christian,  but  he  is  not  one.  Misrepresentation, 
hypocrisy  and  deceit  are  as  repugnant  to  the  Gospel  as  is  error  to 
truth,  for  the  Gospel  is  truth. 

THANKFUL  FOR  CHURCH 

I  thank  God  for  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Within  it  I  find  the 
true  philosophy  of  life  with  all  the  virtues,  the  encouragements,  the 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


restraints,  the  hopes  and  the  satisfactions  that  my  soul  can  desire. 
I  thank  God  for  the  Church  of  Christ  with  all  its  agencies,  facilities 
and  powers  to  make  the  Gospel  effective  in  the  lives  of  men  and 
women.  I  look  forward  with  confidence  to  the  fulfilment  of  the 
promises  of  the  Lord.  In  the  face  of  many  problems  I  am  not  dis- 
couraged— the  truth  will  prevail.  We  must  be  patient  in  all  things, 
but  we  must  also  be  vigilant.  Patience  and  vigilance  and  integrity 
will  see  us  out.  I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  God  on  the  Church,  on 
the  Government  and  on  all  men,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  humbly  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  me  during  the  few  moments  that  I  am  before  you,  that  I 
might  say  correctly  the  things  that  I  have  a  desire  to  say  to  you 
this  afternoon. 

Our  Heavenly  Father  has  greatly  blessed  us  by  giving  to  us 
many  books  that  we  might  learn  of  his  ways  and  his  desires  con- 
cerning us ;  that  we  might  be  able  to  find  our  way  safely  back  into 
his  kingdom  after  finishing  our  work  here.  In  addition  he  has  also 
given  to  us  his  prophet  and  his  servants  that  they  might  give  us, 
from  time  to  time,  additional  word  and  counsel  and  instruction  to 
that  which  we  find  written  in  the  standard  works  of  the  Church. 

The  scriptures  have  not  only  been  given  for  our  benefit  but 
they  have  been  given  for  the  good  of  all  of  the  children  of  God 
here  upon  the  earth.  They  are  encouraged  to  read  them  that  they 
might  better  understand  God's  purposes  towards  them  and  to- 
wards life ;  to  make  the  present  finer  and  more  beautiful  so  that 
the  future  might  bring  increased  joy  and  happiness. 

At  times  it  seems  to  me  that  because  of  the  many  scriptures 
available,  they  have  become  very  common  to  us.  When  problems 
of  life  come  before  us  we  are  prone  to  look  to  other  sources  for 
comfort,  knowledge,  and  instruction,  rather  than  going  to  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  where  we  might  be  guided  rightly  in  the  things 
that  he  wants  us  to  do. 

We  are  always  having  problems  of  religion  before  us,  and  I 
am  sure  that  we  always  shall.  This  word  of  the  Lord  which  has 
been  given  to  us  helps  us  to  tread  the  straight  and  narrow  path 
and  keep  close  to  our  Heavenly  Father.  It  is  interesting,  and  I 
am  sure  profitable,  that  we  should  be  up-to-date ;  but  it  is  more 
important  that  we  be  right,  even  at  the  expense  of  up-to-dateness. 

As  I  meet  people  I  find  there  is  a  tendency  to  so  interpret  the 
scriptures  that  they  will  fit  into  all  of  the  new  theories,  especially 
the  so-called  learning  and  intelligence  that  has  not  been  estab- 
lished. Very  frequently  people  in  trying  to  fit  these  theories  into 
the  word  of  the  Lord  make  the  interpretations  of  our  scriptures 
silly,  and  in  many  cases  dangerous,  leading  men  and  women  astray 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


39 


because  their  new  interpretation  is  not  what  God  meant  when  he 
wrote  and  spoke  to  his  prophets  and  gave  his  words  to  us  in  the 
holy  scriptures. 

We  sometimes  wonder  why  more  people  are  not  coming  into 
the  Church  nowadays,  and  we  refer  back  in  kindly  remembrance  to 
the  many  people  who  joined  the  Church  in  early  days.  I  think  I 
can  name  one  reason.  In  the  early  days  people  of  all  the  earth — 
I  mean  those  who  were  Christians — were  readers  of  the  scriptures. 
They  tried  to  find  comfort  and  knowledge  in  this  holy  book,  the 
Bible.  They  believed  sincerely  in  the  revealed  word  of  God  and 
when  the  missionaries  came  to  them  in  their  kindness  and  with 
their  explanation  of  the  additional  word  of  God,  they  could  see 
and  understand  their  mistakes  and  readily  adjust  themselves  to 
the  new  interpretation  that  had  come  in  relation  to  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  And  so,  many  people  came  into  the  Church. 

Nowadays  we  are  getting  away  from  that.  It  is  not  the  custom 
to  read  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  while  we  may  find  testimony,  I 
believe  that  testimony  would  come  quicker  if  we  would  be  firmer 
in  the  foundation  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ;  if  we  would  be 
frequent  readers  of  God's  word  to  us,  and  really  believe  the  things 
which  he  has  said  and  does  say  to  us. 

I  believe  many  of  these  religious  problems  that  come  to  us 
can  be  solved.  For  example,  we  have  the  question  of  Adam  and 
Eve  in  the  Garden  of  Eden.  We  know  that  Adam  was  an  intelli- 
gent man.  How  do  we  know  it?  By  the  written  word  of  God ;  there 
is  no  question  about  it.  Mark  you,  I  said  an  intelligent  man,  and 
not  a  man  who  was  just  evolving  from  a  crude  state  into  one  of 
intelligence.  All  of  our  reading  and  all  of  of  our  contact  with  God 
and  his  prophecies  give  us  to  understand  that  Adam  was  an  in- 
telligent man  and  was  the  father  of  our  race.  We  read  of  him  in 
the  Bible,  and  we  read  of  him  again  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
where  practically  the  same  story  is  reiterated.  We  read  about  him 
again  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

It  seems  to  me  that  this  question  should  not  bother  us  as  a 
people  when  we  have  so  much  of  the  revealed  word  of  God  concern- 
ing this  matter.  In  the  Book  of  Mormon,  Lehi  makes  the  state- 
ment :  "Adam  fell  that  men  might  be ;  and  men  are,  that  they  might 
have  joy." 

There  is  no  question  about  it,  you  see,  as  far  as  we  are  con- 
cerned. And  the  continual  argument  and  debate  about  a  subject 
like  this  it  seems  to  me  would  be  displeasing  to  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

We  have  the  question  of  the  Christ,  his  virgin-birth,  and  his 
resurrection.  WTe  find  it  contained  in  all  of  our  books.  Yet  there  are 
men  and  women  and  young  people  who  do  not  believe,  and  they 
argue  the  question  back  and  forth  as  to  who  he  really  was,  whether 
or  not  he  was  in  reality  resurrected  from  the  dead,  and  stands  at 
the  right  hand  of  God. 

Perhaps  you  remember  the  occasion  when  Jacob  was  debating 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  question  with  Sherem  concerning  the  Christ,  and  Jacob  said 
to  him,  "Believest  thou  the  scriptures?"  Do  you  not  see  the  first  test 
— the  prophets'  test,  God's  test?  It  was  right  there — "Believest 
thou  the  scriptures?"  And  when  Sherem  said,  "Yea,"  Jacob  said: 

Then  ye  do  not  understand  them;  for  they  truly  testify  of  Christ.  Be- 
hold, I  say  unto  you  that  none  of  the  prophets  have  written,  nor  prophesied, 
save  they  have  spoken  concerning  this  Christ. 

When  the  Lord  was  speaking  to  the  Jews  he  said : 

Search  the  scriptures;  for  in  them  ye  think  ye  have  eternal  life:  and 
they  are  they  which  testify  of  me. 

The  Jews,  with  the  books  before  them  could  not  understand. 
Paul  said  that  we  can  not  understand  the  things  of  God  without 
the  Spirit  of  God.  And  so  even  with  the  scriptures  before  us ;  if 
we  will  not  show  the  signs  of  humility  and  of  repentance,  and  a 
desire  to  know,  we  can  not  understand  the  things  which  are  writ- 
ten in  these  books  for  us. 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  have  a  challenge,  as  we  have  in 
the  Bible.  The  Prophet  Moroni  said  that  if  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
read  with  a  certain  purpose,  with  the  proper  attitude  towards  the 
book,  then  God,  by  his  Spirit,  would  enable  the  reader  to  under- 
stand whether  the  book  was  the  word  of  God  or  not. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  will 
commence  to  pay  more  attention  to  the  holy  scriptures,  that  we 
may  go  to  them  to  solve  the  problems  as  they  come  into  our  lives, 
because  I  am  confident  that  within  the  books  of  God,  in  addition 
to  what  comes  to  us  from  our  prophet,  we  can  ascertain  what 
God  wants  us  to  do,  how  far  we  shall  go,  and  how  we  can  please 
him  from  day  to  day.  May  he  bless  us  to  this  end,  that  we  might 
obtain  additional  light  and  comfort  and  blessing  and  eventually 
find  our  way  into  his  kingdom,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  stand  before  you  this  after- 
noon I  desire  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers.  I  hardly  know  what 
I  shall  be  able  to  say,  but  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  faith  that  he  has  given 
me  in  the  Gospel,  of  which  we  are  participants.  I  thank  him  that  I  can 
look  into  the  future  with  reliance  and  faith,  believing  that  he  stands  back 
of  the  purposes  of  this  Church,  and  that  he  will  guide  it  through,  that  he 
will  give  those  of  us  who  are  faithful  and  rely  upon  him  the  power  and  the 
capacity  to  carry  on. 

I  believe  that  there  exists  in  this  body  of  Priesthood  that  we  have 
before  us  today,  a  peculiar  power  and  virtue,  a  reservoir  of  power, 
from  which  we  derive  our  authority  in  doing  the  things  we  do  as  repre- 
sentatives of  this  people.  I  believe  that  it  is  by  virtue  of  that  authority 
which  is  vested  in  the  people  that  the  officers  of  this  Church  conduct  its 
affairs  in  all  this  world. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


41 


I  believe  that  you  have  authorized  them  to  do  so,  and  I  believe 
that  that  authorization  is  borne 'out  by  God  himself. 

There  is  a  principle  existent  in  the  Church  that  the  right  to  govern 
is  derived  from  the  common  consent  of  those  governed.  That  extends 
to  all  the  offices  of  the  Church.  The  bishop  is  appointed  and  approved 
by  his  ward ;  the  stake  president  is  appointed  and  approved  by  his  stake ; 
an  apostle  is  appointed  and  approved  by  the  Church ;  and  the  President 
of  the  Church  is  appointed  and  approved  by  the  Church.  And  when  he  is 
so  approved  as  a  prophet,  seer  and  revelator,  he  has  the  right  to  stand 
at  the  head  of  the  Church  and  determine  its  policies  and  practices. 

We  have  before  us  the  scriptures,  to  which  reference  has  been  made 
this  afternoon ;  I  am  thinking  especially  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 
When  the  revelations  in  that  wonderful  book  were  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  they  were  not  all  at  once  compiled  and  bound  into  their 
present  form.  The  time  came  when  that  was  done,  and  to  make  them 
effective  and  binding  upon  the  body  of  the  Church  they  were  approved 
and  accepted  as  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  to  the  Church,  and  from  then 
on  we  have  deemed  them  as  binding  upon  us. 

We  must  not  forget,  in  this  day  of  trial  and  tribulation  and  criti- 
cism that  we  are  going  through,  that  we  have  now  at  the  head  of  the 
Church  the  very  same  authority  that  we  had  in  those  days,  and  that 
when  the  prophet  of  the  Lord  dictates  a  policy  unto  this  people  and  that 
policy  is  approved  by  the  body  of  the  Church,  it  is  just  as  binding  upon 
.the  Church  today  as  at  any  time  in  its  history;  and  no  minority — no 
•matter  how  interested  it  may  be  in  certain  other  practices  that  are  not  ap- 
proved by  these  policies — has  the  right  to  set  itself  up  in  direct  opposition 
to  this  body  of  Priesthood,  the  representatives  of  which  we  are  who 
.are  gathered  here  today. 

We  are  the  Priesthood,  and  together  with  the  Authorities  who  are 
placed  over  us,  we  control  the  destiny  of  this  Church,  and  it  is  the  duty  of 
the  rank  and  file  of  the  Church  to  remember  this  one  thing,  that  the 
Priesthood  vested  in  the  President  authorizes  him,  when  we  support  him, 
to  dictate  the  policies  that  the  time  demands. 

I  for  one  propose  to  stand  back  of  the  Authorities  of  the  Church 
as  long  as  God  will  give  me  power ;  and  to  support  every  righteous  thing 
that  they  propose,  especially  when  it  is  approved  by  the  body  of  the 
Priesthood. 

There  are  certain  changes  that  have  been  authorized  and  approved 
by  the  body  of  the  Priesthood,  which  are  meeting  with  opposition  at  this 
time  and,  it  is  my  testimony  to  you  that  there  is  no  legitimate  ground  for 
this  opposition. 

I  trust  that  the  Lord  will  give  us  strength  to  see  our  duty,  to  see  the 
right,  to  sustain  and  uphold  the  policies  of  this  Church  when  they  are 
founded  upon  this  principle  that  I  have  enunciated,  for  I  believe  that  is 
the  principle  that  should  govern  the  Church.  The  Lord  has  told  us  so  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  leaders  of  the  Church  have  reiterated 
it  from  time  to  time;  and  in  promulgating  these  policies  they  stand 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


upon  that  principle,  and  no  other.  To  me  that  is  justice  and  right  and 
common  sense. 

I  hope  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  with  the  power  that  I  may  carry 
on,  that  I  may  see  my  duty  properly  and  correctly  and  be  able  to  fulfill  it 
completely.  I  trust  that  the  same  blessing  may  be  meted  out  to  every 
man  who  holds  the  Priesthood  in  this  Church,  that  he  may  realize  the 
tremendous  responsibility  that  rests  upon  him  when  he  accepts  that 
Priesthood,  for  it  is  no  idle  thing  to  permit  a  servant  of  the  Lord  to  lay  his 
hands  upon  your  head  and  ordain  you  to  the  Priesthood.  You  accept 
the  responsibility  and  the  duty,  and  it  is  your  obligation  to  magnify  that 
calling. 

We  have  different  orders  in  the  Priesthood,  and  the  callings  of 
all  are  not  the  same,  but  be  they  great  or  small,  when  we  accept  those 
callings  we  have  no  right  to  refuse  to  discharge  the  duties  that  devolve 
upon  us  under  them. 

I  hope  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us,  that  he  will  pour  out  his  Spirit  upon 
us,  that  he  will  give  us  the  power  to  carry  on  properly. 

I  was  especially  pleased  with  what  Brother  Richards  said  this  af- 
ternoon about  the  conditions  of  the  time,  and  I  wish  to  say  amen  to  his 
suggestion.  In  going  out  among  the  people  I  have  learned  that,  almost 
without  exception,  those  people  who  have  obeyed  the  instructions  that 
have  so  many  times  been  given  from  this  stand,  who  find  themselves 
free  of  debt,  are  not  suffering  in  this  crisis. 

We  are  ambitious,  it  is  true,  and  many  of  us  desire  the  power  that 
comes  from  large  property  holdings,  and  to  get  that  power  we  have 
shouldered  upon  our  backs  obligations  that  we  are  now  unable  to  fulfill ; 
but  I  find  that  those  people  who  are  content  with  less,  who  were  out  of 
debt  when  this  thing  broke,  are  not  suffering  now  like  the  people  who 
found  themselves  heavily  involved. 

I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  work  in  which  we 
are  engaged,  and  to  take  my  seat,  praying  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me 
always  with  his  Holy  Spirit,  and  you  as  well.  And  I  do  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  desire  to  read  my  remarks  made  at  the  funeral  of  Brother  Charles 
H.  Hart,  so  that  they  may  be  in  the  Conference  Pamphlet.  They  are  as 
follows : 

"From  my  personal  association  during  all  the  years  that  Brother  Hart 
was  one  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  I  am  able  to  bear  wit- 
ness to  all  of  the  splendid  things  that  have  been  said  here  today  regard- 
ing his  character.  There  was  no  one  of  the  General  Authorities  with 
whom  I  traveled  from  stake  to  stake,  in  fulfilling  the  duties  devolving  * 
upon  us  of  attending  quarterly  conferences,  that  I  enjoyed  traveling  with 
more  than  I  did  Brother  Hart.  The  sincerity  and  honesty,  the  integrity 
and  devotion  of  the  man  always  impressed  me.   He  was  a  man  whom  to 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


43 


know  was  to  love.  Love  begets  love.  He  was  a  man  who  loved  the 
people,  loved  to  mingle  with  them,  loved  to  gather  evidences,  as  has  been 
said  here,  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  you  and  I  are  engaged, 
and  to  be  in  a  position  to  defend  it. 

A  RIGHTEOUS  JUDGE 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  be  a  judge  and  to  have  the  reputation 
among  all  those  who  knew  him  that  his  decisions  were  absolutely  true 
and  straight,  and  what  they  ought  to  be  according  to  the  evidence  pre- 
sented. To  my  mind  the  greatest  tribute  that  could  be  paid  to  a  man  is 
that  those  who  know  him  best  love  him  most,  and  I  am  sure  that  this 
tribute  can  be  paid  to  Brother  Hart  and  that  he  is  worthy  of  it. 

ENGAGED  IN  A  NOBLE  CAUSE 

There  are  many  of  us  who  make  friends  and  sometimes  make 
enemies.  If  Brother  Hart  had  an  enemy  I  have  never  heard  of  it.  I 
have  always  heard  people  speak  of  him  in  the  highest  terms.  To  have 
a  perfect  and  abiding  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  to  devote  the  best  that  is  in  us  to  carry  that  knowledge  to  others  and 
to  inspire  others  to  try  to  obtain  it,  is  the  highest  labor  I  believe  in  which 
any  of  us  can  be  engaged,  and  this  was  the  labor  of  Brother  Hart  during 
the  latter  part  of  his  life  as  one  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  and  it  was  a  labor  thatihe  took  pleasure  in  performing. 

RICH  BLESSINGS  EARNED 

I  rejoice  in  all  the  splendid  things  that  have  been  said  here  today. 
I  commend  to  his  wife  and  his  children  that  they  read  the  seventy-sixth 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  telling  of  the  marvelous  and 
wonderful  blessings  that  shall  come  to  those  who  embrace  the  Gospel 
and  live  it,  and  of  the  promises  that  are  made  to  them  concerning  the  life 
to  come. 

I  have  no  hesitancy  whatever  in  assuring  the  beloved  wife  and  splen- 
did family  that  all  of  those  marvelous  blessings  promised  to  those  who 
shall  endure  to  the  end  and  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  that 
they  shall  inherit  celestial  glory,  shall  come  to  Brother  Hart.  There  is 
nothing  I  can  urge  upon*  the  family  more  than  to  follow  in  his  footsteps 
and  walk  in  the  narrow  and  straight  path  that  he  walked  in  during  his 
entire  life. 

NOT  IN  THE  GRAVE 

I  can  never  think  of  my  loved  ones,  my,  dear  mother  and  those  who 
have  passed  away,  as  being  in  the  grave.  I  rejoice  in  the  associations  they 
are  enjoying  and  in  the  pleasure  they  are  having  in  meeting  with  their 
loved  ones  on  the  other  side. 

May  God  help  each  and  all  of  us  to  so  order  our  lives  that  they  will 
be  a  proclamation  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


And  may  that  sweet  and  peaceful  influence  that  comes  from  our  Heav- 
enly Father  in  times  of  sorrow  be  given  to  the  wife  and  her  children. 
May  they  be  comforted,  encouraged  and  blessed  in  their  time  of  sorrow, 
is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  humility  in  the  name  of  our  Re- 
deemer. Amen." 

A  sacred  anthem,  "Gloria,"  (Buzzi-Pucia)  was  sung  by  The  Sing- 
ing Mothers'  Chorus. 

Elder  W.  Heber  Wilde,  President  of  the  Summit  Stake  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday  morning,  October  6. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

The  Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  6,  at  10 
o'clock  a.  m. 

The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Hail  to  the  brightness 
of  Zion's  glad  morning." 

Elder  Heber  Q.  Hale,  President  of  the  Boise  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

A  sacred  solo,  "The  Holy  City,"  was  sung  by  Sister  Mildred  Brad- 
ford. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authori- 
ties and  Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers, 
who  were  unanimously  sustained  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Reed  Smoot  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

George  Albert  Smith  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  F.  Richards  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L.  Richards  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
Alonzo  A.  Hinckley 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency  and  The  Twelve  Apostles 
as  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  SEVENTY 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Rufus  K.  Hardy 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  Assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Stephen  L.  Richards 

David  O.  McKay  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Willard  Young  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Rudger  Clawson  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Charles  A.  Callis 

Franklin  S.  Harris 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  W.  Hart 

Orval  W.  Adams 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

David  A.  Smith,  President  Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor 

B.  Cecil  Gates,  Assistant  Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper  Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CLERK  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  D.  Pyper,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent  < 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


AUXILIARY  OFFICERS 


47 


YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  Second  Assitant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Edith  Hunter  Lambert,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Afbstles 

I  desire  that  I  may  have  the  blessing-  of  the  Lord,  that  the  few 
moments  I  occupy  will  be  profitable  to  us  all.  We  have  had  a  de- 
lightful time  thus  far.  I  have  enjoyed  the  privilege  of  greeting  so 
many  of  my  brethren  and  sisters  that  I  do  not  frequently  see.  Today 
I  have  come  here  with  a  prayer  in  my  heart  that  we  may  continue 
to  enjoy  the  favor  of  the  Lord,  bestowed  upon  us  so  richly  in  the 
past. 

A  MARVELOUS  CHANGE 

Sixty-nine  years  ago  today  a  general  conference  of  the  Church 
was  held  in  this  building.  The  first  to  be  enjoyed  here.  What  a 
marvelous  change  has  been  wrought  during  the  period  of  time  that 
has  elapsed  since  then !  How  the  Lord  has  preserved  this  people ! 
We  have  become  somewhat  popular  with  many  of  our  Father's  chil- 
dren in  the  world  now,  but  in  those  days  there  were  few,  not  mem- 
bers of  this  Church,  who  dared  to  even  suggest  that  they  were 
friendly  to  the  Church.  But  the  Lord  promised  those  who  came 
out  from  Nauvoo  that  if  they  would  migrate  into  the  tops  of  these 
mountains  and  live  according  to  his  teachings,  they  would  be  a  happy 
people.  That  is  the  promise  of  our  Heavenly  Father  to  all  who  seek 
him  and  keep  his  commandments. 

RECIPE  FOR  TRUE  HAPPINESS 

During  these  troublous  times  when  so  many  are  in  distress, 
seeking  happiness  and  not  finding  it,  I  think  the  finest  recipe  that 
I  could  give,  to  obtain  happiness,  would  be:  Keep  the  command- 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ments  of  the  Lord.  That  is  easy  to  remember,  and  if  we  will  do 
that  we  may  be  sure  of  success. 

All  down  through  the  ages  the  Lord  has  inspired  his  choice 
servants  and  they  have  taught  the  people  the  Gospel,  they  have 
pointed  outj  the  way  of  true  happiness.  And  yet,  by  his  cunning  crafti- 
ness Satan  has  persuaded  the  majority  of  mankind  from  walking  in 
that  pathway  that  will  insure  happiness,  and  he  is  still  busy.  That  is  one 
thing  you  may  be  sure  of,  that  the  adversary  of  righteousness  never 
sleeps. 

Yesterday  reference  was  made  to  the  fact  that  there  are  some 
of  our  brethren  and  sisters  who  may  be  influenced  if  they  are  not 
careful,  into  following  unwise  leadership  in  their  efforts  to  obtain 
food,  raiment,  shelter,  etc.  Remember  one  of  the  oldest  of  the  Lord's 
commandments,  "Thou  shalt  not  covet." 

OLD  AGE  PENSIONS 

A  man  this  morning  stopped  me  as  I  came  down  the  street, 
and  requested  me  to  sign  a  petition.  I  asked  "What  is  it?"  He  said : 
"You  believe  in  old-age  pensions,  don't  you?"  And  I  replied: 
"Well,  my  brother,  I  have  always  believed  in  caring  for  old  age, 
and  I  have  been  making  contributions  for  old  age  ever  since  I  was 
a  wage-earner,  in  some  form  or  another ;  but,"  I  asked,  "does  your 
petition  suggest  $200  a  month  for  all  those  past  sixty  years  of  age?" 
He  said :  "Yes."  I  said,  "Well,  that  appears  to  me  to  be  excessive. 
I  cannot  see  any  justification  for  that." 

"Now,"  I  said,  "do  not  misunderstand  me.  I  am  not  complaining 
at  anything  that  may  be  done  for  sixty-year-old  people  who,  by 
reason  of  indigent  circumstances  and  distresses,  are  not  able  to  take 
care  of  themselves.  I  am  not  opposed  to  something  being  done 
to  provide  the  means  whereby  they  may  live  and  be  comfortable, 
but,"  I  said,  "this  proposition  of  yours  appears  unreasonable  to 
me."  I  hope  I  didn't  wound  his  feelings.  I  had  no  desire  to  do  so. 
I  have  always  desired  to  be  kind,  especially  to  those  in  distress. 
We  are  likely,  if  we  are  not  careful,  to  run  off  on  a  tangent,  follow- 
ing some  new  idea,  and  if  we  will  just  pause  long  enough  to  consider  and 
investigate,  we  will  discover  that  it  is  not  workable. 

THE  LORD'S  WAY 

The  Lord,  in  his  mercy,  has  told  us  much  that  we  should  do. 
He  has  instructed  us  to  be  industrious.  During  this  conference 
reference  has  been  made  to  the  fact  that  we  should  go  to  bed  early 
and  arise  early,  after  being  refreshed.  That  is  the  Lord's  advice  to 
us.  Among  the  things  that  come  to  my  mind  just  now,  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  has  suggested  to  us,  is  that  we  honor  the  Sabbath 
day  and  keep  it  holy ;  that  we  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom ;  that 
we  keep  ourselves  clean  and  pure  and  unspotted  from  the  sins  of 
the  world ;  that  we  love  one  another ;  that  we  go  about  doing  good. 
In  fact,  there  are  so  many  things  that  I  will  not  take  time  to  men- 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


49 


tion  them  to  you  this  morning,  but  you  know  what  I  mean, — the  Lord's 
way,  not  man's  way. 

That  is  why  this  Church  was  organized,  in  order  that  we  might 
be  directed  by  the  influences  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  That  is  the 
purpose  of  it,  to  prepare  us  for  eternal  life  in  the  celestial  kingdom. 
When  I  think  of  the  great  and  good  men  and  women  who  have 
lived  in  this  Church  from  the  beginning,  who  have  gone  through  all 
kinds  of  hardships,  and  have  remained  faithful  to  their  trust  and  gone 
home,  I  think  what  a  marvelous  example  has  been  set  us ! 

We  saw  portrayed,  last  night,  in  the  beautiful  pageant  present- 
ed here,  some  of  the  experiences  of  Wilford  Woodruff,  who  lived 
to  be  92  years  of  age,  retaining  his  faculties ;  and  almost  the  last 
thing  that  he  did  was  to  express  his  desire  to  those  around  him  that 
they  should  honor  God  and  keep  his  commandments. 

OUR  LEADERS  TODAY 

We  are  here  this  morning  in  a  worshipping  capacity,  to  wait 
upon  the  Lord.  We  are  assembled  under  the  presidency  of  the  man 
who  has  been  called  to  direct  the  policy  of  this  Church,  associated 
with  his  counselors  and  the  other  brethren.  These  are  our  leaders 
today.  My  heart  is  full  of  gratitude  that  I  am  permitted  to  be  here. 
I  regret  that  Brother  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  cannot  be  with  us,  but  he  is  in  the  line  of  his  duty,  per- 
forming a  splendid  service  as  president  of  the  European  Mission. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  that  is  mine  to  mingle  my  voice  and 
associate  with  my  brethren  and  my  sisters  in  this,  one  of  the  great 
semi-annual  conferences  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

SHOULD  BE  INDUSTRIOUS 

We  live  in  perilous  times.  We  need  the  inspiration  of  our 
Heavenly  Father.  We  can't  expect  it  unless  we  keep  his  command- 
ments. He  said  long,  long  ago  there  were  idlers  in  Zion,  and  he 
complained  at  them,  and  he  said,  "He  that  is  idle  shall  not  eat  the  bread 
nor  wear  the  garments  of  the  laborer."  I  am  assuming  that  he  did  not 
mean  those  who  cannot  find  employment,  and  who  are  legitimately  trying 
to  take  care  of  themselves.  I  am  assuming  that  he  referred  to  the  habit 
some  people  get  into  of  leaning  upon  their  neighbor.  Maybe  that 
is  the  wrong  interpretation,  but  that  is  the  way  I  view  it.  I  feel 
that  there  has  been  no  justification  given  to  any  man  in  this  world 
to  feel  that  he  can  depend  on  somebody  else  to  provide  him  a  live- 
lihood. I  did  not  feel  when  I  was  a  child  that  somebody  would  be 
compelled  to  provide  me  a  means  of  living.  The  Lord  gave  me  intel" 
ligence.  He  directed  that  I  should  work,  and  I  began  to  work 
when  I  was  twelve  years  of  age,  and  I  found  joy  in  it,  and  have 
earned  my  living  and  helped  others  during  more  than  fifty  years. 

I  thank  God  for  work,  for  the  joy  that  comes  from  doing  things 
in  the  world.  I  am  not  indicating  any  particular  kind  of  employ- 
ment except  that  it  be  honorable.  But  the  Lord  has  indicated  that 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


we  should  be  industrious.  In  ancient  times  he  said  that  we  should 
earn  our  living  by  the  sweat  of  our  face.  There  are  means  available 
today  whereby,  if  we  were  keeping  all  of  the  commandments  of 
our  Heavenly  Father,  there  would  be  employment  for  every  one 
of  us  that  would  occupy  most  of  our  time. 

THE  FAULTS  OF  OTHERS 

'  This  morning,  not  in  criticism,  not  in  a  spirit  of  fault-finding 
I  plead  with  you  my  brethren  and  my  sisters,  let  us  be  generous 
with  one  another.  Let  us  be  as  patient  with  one  another  as  we 
would  like  others  to  be  with  us.  Let  us  see  the  virtues  of  our  neigh- 
bors and  our  friends  and  speak  of  those  virtues,  not  find  fault  and 
criticize.  If  we  will  do  that  we  will  radiate  sunshine,  and  those  who 
know  us  best  will  love  us. 

I  read  some  time  ago,  in  one  of  the  old  records  of  the  Church, 
that  from  this  very  stand  a  sermon  was  preached  in  which  one  of 
the  brethren  called  attention  to  the  fact  that  in  a  group  of  ten  men 
and  women,  assembled  together  and  examined  each  apart  from 
the  others,  saying,  "I  would  like  you  to  tell  me  what  you  think  of 
these,  your  associates,"  the  first  one  explained  that  they  were  good 
people  but  each  had  an  outstanding  fault,  and  he  said  each  one  of 
them  found  fault  with  every  other  one  of  that  group,  but  they  for- 
got to  criticize  themselves.  Out  of  the  ten  that  had  been  assembled 
and  given  an  opportunity  to  talk,  nine  people  could  find  fault  with 
all  of  the  others,  but  the  nine  people  did  not  find  in  themselves  any 
fault  at  all.  Now,  let  us  think  of  that.  That  was  right  from  this 
very  stand  years  ago. 

Aren't  we  rather  prone  to  see  the  limitations  and  the  weak- 
nesses of  our  neighbors?  Yet  that  is  contrary  to  the  teachings  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  There  is  a  class  of  people  who  find  fault 
and  criticize  always  in  a  destructive  way.  There  is  a  difference  in 
criticism.  If  we  can  criticize  constructively  under  the  influence  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  we  may  change  beneficially  and  properly 
some  of  the  things  that  are  being  done.  But  if  we  have  the  spirit 
of  fault  finding,  of  pointing  out  the  weaknesses  and  failings  of 
others  in  a  destructive  manner,  that  never  comes  as  the  result  of 
the  companionship  of  the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  is 
always  harmful. 

FOLLOWING  THE  NARROW  WAY 

If  in  our  own  homes  we  have  family  prayers  and  teach  our 
children  to  pray  and  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord,  we  are  in  the 
narrow  way.  If  we  teach  our  children  to  thank  the  Lord  for  the 
food  that  we  have,  and  feel  to  appreciate  our  blessings,  we  are  in 
the  narrow  way.  If  we,  when  we  are  called  upon  to  do  ward  teach- 
ing, go  into  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  servants  of  the 
Lord,  and  call  the  family  together  and  teach  them  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  point  them  to  the  pathway  that  leads  to  eternal  hap- 
piness, we  are  in  the  line  of  our  duty  and  pleasing  the  Lord. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


51 


So  I  might  go  on  and  enumerate  many  things,  little  things  that 
we  see  around  us  every  day,  but  they  are  important.  We  should 
attend  to  our  secret  prayers.  We  should  live  so  near  to  our  Heav- 
enly Father  that  when  we  bow  before  him  we  may  know  that  the 
thing  we  are  asking  will  be  pleasing  unto  him,  and  if  it  isn't  grant- 
ed in  the  way  that  we  ask  it  we  may  know  that  the  blessing  will 
come  to  us  that  we  are  entitled  to  and  that  will  really  be  a  blessing. 

IN  THE  HOMES  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

I  have  shaken  hands  during  this  conference  with  a  number  of 
my  brethren  and  my  sisters.  How  happy  I  am  to  have  this  oppor- 
tunity! I  have  been  in  your  homes  during  the  last  few  years,  at 
intervals.  I  have  had  joy  when  I  have  stepped  into  the  homes  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  when  I  went  in  I  found  the  inspiration 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  there.  I  found  politeness  and  kindness 
among  the  children  of  the  household.  I  saw  cleanliness  and  good 
order  in  the  house.  I  felt  an  influence  of  appreciation  and  gratitude 
for  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  That  made  me  happy. 
I  have  had  joy  and  I  am  grateful  for  it,  and  this  morning  I  thank  you 
who  have  been  so  kind  to  me  for  your  good  care  of  me  and  my  brethren. 

IN  THIS  BUILDING 

I  have  mentioned  the  fact  that  here,  sixty-nine  years  ago,  this 
building  was  opened,  and  from  that  time  until  now  many  marvelous 
instructions  have  been  given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  been 
in  this  house  when  the  Spirit  of  God  has  been  poured  out  upon  us 
and  there  were  few  eyes  not  moistened  by  tears.  Our  souls  were 
subdued.  We  felt  to  repent  of  our  sins.  When  we  possess  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  we  always  have  the  spirit  of  repentance.  When- 
ever our  hearts  are  hard  and  we  can't  repent,  we  may  know  that 
we  have  not  a  proper  spirit.  So  today  I  am  thinking  of  the  teach- 
ings that  have  echoed  in  this  grand  old  building  that  is  world- 
famous  now  because  of  what  has  been  accomplished  here. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  has  called  the  attention,  I  might  say,  of 
the  entire  world,  by  now,  to  the  fact  that  there  exists  an  excellent 
musical  organization  in  the  great  "Mormon"  Tabernacle,  accom- 
panied by  this  wonderful  organ.  They  are  preaching  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  we  are  beneficiaries  of  that  blessing. 

THREE  MIGHTY  MEN 

We  have  referred  during  this  conference  to  three  mighty  men 
recently  called  home  who  have  discussed  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  from  this  very  pulpit  and  exhorted  us  to  obey  our  Father  in 
heaven,  in  preparation  for  life  in  his  celestial  kingdom.  I  am  think- 
ing of  the  praiseworthy  things  that  have  been  said  about  our 
brethren  who  have  just  left  us.  We  remember  them  and  their 
virtues  just  as  we  remember  the  last  conference,  and  we  remember 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  last  conference  as  the  best  conference  that  we  ever  had  be- 
cause we  are  close  to  it.  How  fine  it  would  be  if  we  could  remember 
all  the  truths  that  we  have  heard  in  the  other  conferences,  not 
only  remember  them  now,  but  if  we  could  treasure  them  during 
life — retaining  the  teachings  of  the  Lord  which  came  to  us  through 
his  servants. 

LEADERS  WHO  HAVE  GONE  HOME 

Here  have  stood  some  of  the  greatest  men  that  have  ever  lived 
upon  the  earth,  marvelous  men,  who  have  finished  their  work  and 
gone  home.  I  feel  impressed  to  mention  the  names  of  some  of  those 
who  from  this  pulpit  have  instructed  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the 
years  gone  by.  Brigham  Young,  a  mighty  pioneer  and  leader  of  the 
Church ;  John  Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff,  Lorenzo  Snow,  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  Think  of  these  men  who  have  passed  on,  these  men  that  we 
love  and  venerate.  Heber  C.  Kimball,  George  A.  Smith,  George  Q. 
Cannon,  John  R.  Winder,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
Daniel  H.  Wells,  John  Henry  Smith,  Orson  Hyde,  Orson  Pratt,  Ezra 
T.  Benson,  Charles  C.  Rich,  Erastus  Snow.  These  men  were  not  or- 
dinary men.  They  were  super-men  that  God  called  to  lead  the 
people  to  the  valleys  of  these  mountains  and  instruct  them  in  those 
pioneer  days.  Franklin  D.  Richards,  Brigham  Young,  Jr.,  Francis 
M.  Lyman,  George  Teasdale,  Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Abram  H.  Can- 
non, Abram  O.  Woodruff,  Charles  W.  Nibley,  John  Smith,  Hyrum 
G.  Smith,  Joseph  Young,  Levi  Hancock,  Zebedee  Coltrin,  Albert 
C.  Rockwood,  Horace  S.  Eldredge,  Jacob  Gates,  John  Van  Cott, 
William  W.  Taylor,  Seymour  B.  Young,  C.  D.  Fjeldsted,  John  Mor- 
gan, Brigham  H.  Roberts,  George  Reynolds,  Edward  Stevenson, 
Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Edward  Hunter,  William  B. 
Preston,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  James  E.  Talmage  and  many  others. 

I  will  not  take  time  to  refer  to  more.  The  list  is  long  but  as 
I  think  of  the  men  in  the  years  that  have  passed,  who  have  devoted 
themselves  to  the  Church  until  the  Lord  summoned  them  home, 
I  marvel  at  the  strength  of  our  leadership.  I  have  missed  the 
names  of  some  of  the  leaders  who  have  stood  here,  but  these  are 
those  that  have  come  into  my  mind. 

OPPORTUNITY  FOR  PREPARATION 

This  is  the  Lord's  work.  This  is  not  the  work  of  man.  If  we 
desire  to  be  identified  with  the  kingdom  of  our  Lord,  the  celes- 
tial kingdom,  this  is  our  opportunity  to  prepare, — with  love  un- 
feigned, with  industry,  with  thrift,  with  perseverance,  with  a  de- 
sire to  do  all  that  is  within  our  power  to  bless  others,  to  give — 
not  to  be  always  feeling  we  must  receive,  but  desire  to  give,  for  I 
say  to  you:  "It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive."  The 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  gospel  of  giving,  not  only  of  our  sub- 
stance but  of  ourselves,  and  I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  that  I 
belong  to  such  an  organization  that  has  been  so  instructed. 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 


53 


SUSTAINING  OUR  LEADERS 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  God  may  be  in  your  hearts  and  in 
your  homes.  Let  us  hold  up  the  hands  of  these  men  who  preside 
over  us.  Vacancies  have  occurred.  They  have  been  filled  by  serv- 
ants of  the  Lord,  men  that  he  has  chosen,  and  the  vacancies  that 
will  be  filled  now  and  henceforth  will  be  filled  by  men  that  the 
Lord  has  selected  to  be  our  leaders  and  our  advisers  and  our  coun- 
selors. I  hope  that  we  will  be  found  in  the  line  of  our  duty,  praying 
for  and  sustaining  our  present  leaders,  blessing  them  by  our  kind- 
ness and  our  love,  and  presenting  them  before  our  Heavenly  Father 
in  our  daily  prayers,  asking  him  that  he  will  give  them  the  richness 
of  his  love  and  blessing. 

I  am  thankful  again,  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart,  for  my 
membership  in  this  Church.  I  know  that  this  is  God's  work.  I 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God.  I  know  that  the  men  that  have  suc- 
ceeded him  as  presidents  of  this  Church  have  been  leaders  by  di- 
vine appointment.  I  bear  you  my  witness  of  it  and  express  to  you 
again  my  gratitude  to  have  been  associated  with  this  work  of  our 
Father,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  Amen. 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  President  of  the 
California  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  my  soul  is  subdued.  I  had  never  dreamed 
of  such  a  thing,  never  heard  an  intimation  of  such  a  thing  as  my  being 
called  into  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  I  stand  before  you  as  one  who 
needs  your  supporting  power  for  a  few  minutes. 

I  have  thought  in  the  last  few  minutes  of  my  father,  who  is  dead 
and  gone.  I  have  grown  up  in  the  Church,  known  all  the  Authorities 
since  Brigham  Young  and  loved  them,  sustained  them,  honored  them, 
have  been  impressed  by  them,  inspired  by  them.  But  my  father,  to 
him  is  the  glory  of  having  taught  his  family  by  a  noble  example, 
by  devotion  to  the  truth,  by  a  humble  reverence  for  the  Authorities 
of  the  Church  and  loyalty  to  them  all.  To  my  father  I  give  credit, 
leading  his  family,  as  man  should  lead,  by  the  eloquent  life  that  he  led. 
His  words  were  few  but  his  example  was  true.  No  soul,  in  the  presence 
of  my  father,  was  ever  permitted  to  lift  his  voice  and  speak  words  against 
the  Authorities  of  this  Church,  without  my  father  offering  an  objection. 
I  think  of  him  in  his  teachings,  in  his  prayers.  My  father  prayed;  he 
didn't  say  his  prayers.  We  knew  what  was  in  his  heart.  We  knew 
that  for  which  he  struggled,  and  we  followed  him. 

May  I  pay  a  tribute  to  my  mother,  who,  in  the  days  when  my 
father  was  called  away  from  home,  never  permitted  us  to  forget  our 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


prayers,  never  failed  to  kneel  in  the  group.  Now  I  can  understand,  in 
these  more  mature  years  of  my  life,  her  spirit  when  she  tiptoed  upstairs, 
when  all  was  quiet  below  and  we  were  tucked  away  in  our  beds,  and  she 
would  sit  on  the  edge  of  the  bed  and  make  inquiries,  intimate,  close  in- 
quiries :  "Have  you  said  your  prayers  ?"  "Yes."  "Did  you  remember 
your  father  who  is  away  ?"  Sometimes  we  had  to  admit  thinking  father 
was  so  big  and  great  and  strong  he  could  meet  any  situation,  had  to 
admit  perhaps  we  had  not  felt  the  necessity  of  praying  for  him.  "Did  you 
pray  for  those  who  have  not  comfortable  beds  as  you  have  ?  Did  you  pray 
for  those  who  have  not  food  to  eat  nor  raiment  to  wear?"  So  today  I 
pay  tribute  to  that  angel  mother  who  left  an  impression  so  deep  that  it 
has  never  gone  out  of  the  hearts  of  her  children.  Blessed  be  her  name ! 

Now  permit  me  to  pay  tribute  to  the  good  people  with  whom  I  labor. 
I  have  sat  in  meditation  this  morning,  as  I  came  away  from  the  bed  of  an 
Elder  who  had  returned  from  his  mission  and  been  back  to  his  home.  His 
friend  called  up  and  said :  "Could  you  come  down  and"  bless  Elder 
 ?"  I  said :  "I  will  come  right  down  before  meet- 
ing." As  I  sat  there  and  looked  at  him  and  thought  of  him  as  one  who 
had  served  as  a  district  president,  now  needing  help,  I  asked  the  Lord 
to  give  him  the  faith  that  I  knew  he  had  exercised  when  he  was  in  the 
mission  field,  when  he  could  call  upon  the  Lord  to  heal  the  sick  through 
the  laying  on  of  hands.  I  asked  the  Lord  to  remember  him.  I  say  I 
came  away  meditating.  I  thought:  How  blessed  is  my  life,  associated 
with  these  young  men,  pure  and  undeflled,  who  go  forth  in  the  strength 
of  their  young  manhood,  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  di- 
vinely commissioned  to  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  fear- 
ful of  no  man,  conscious  of  their  responsibility  and  conscious  of  their 
authority,  teaching  that  which  they  do  know  to  be  true.  I  say  I  medi- 
tated and  thought :  What  a  blessed  man  am  I  to  be  associated  with  such 
as  these.  I  thought  of  the  Saints  down  in  the  mission.  How  I 
love  them !  I  thought  of  the  sixty  men  who  preside  over  the  branches 
and  direct  the  destinies  of  those  thirteen  thousand  Latter-day  Saints. 
Oh,  what  men  they  are !  I  said  in  my  soul :  "What  hath  God  wrought !" 
He  raised  up  these  righteous  people,  who,  without  thought  of  cost  of  ef- 
fort or  time,  offer  a  consecrated  service  that  commands  the  attention  of 
the  world. 

Our  greatest  sermon  in  every  case,  I  think,  is  our  manner  of  life. 
Do  we  testify  with  our  lives  that  we  have  found  the  truth,  that  we  love 
the  truth,  that  we  live  the  truth,  and  that  the  truth  and  the  living  of  the 
truth  brings  into  our  lives,  soul  satisfactions  that  cannot  be  found  else- 
where or  in  any  other  way? 

I  bear  my  testimony.  I  also  testify  of  the  Saints  in  the  California 
Mission,  of  their  unity,  of  their  love,  of  their  good  works. 

Now,  all  I  can  say,  the  Lord  being  my  helper  is  I  will  just  do  my  best. 
I  think  I  could  quote,  with  propriety,  the  prayer  of  David:  "Let  the 
words  of  my  mouth,  let  the  meditation  of  my  heart  be  acceptable  unto 
Thee,  O  Lord,  my  strength,  my  Redeemer."  Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES  M.  KIRKHAM 


55 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  are  twenty  mission  presidents  here,  including  those  actively 
engaged  and  those  who  have  been  released.  I  regret  that  it  will  be 
impossible  to  get  through  our  conference  in  the  specified  time  if  we 
give  all  of  these  brethren  an  opportunity  to  speak  to  us.  We  shall  call 
on  those  who  have  been  recently  appointed,  and  ask  each  mission 
president  to  not  occupy  more  than  ten  minutes. 

ELDER  JAMES  M.  KIRKHAM 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  while  I  stand  here  before 
you.  I  want  to  report  to  you  the  condition  of  the  East  Central 
States  Mission.  We  are  happy  in  our  work  and  the  Lord  is  bless- 
ing us.  We  need  more  help  in  the  mission  field,  and  I  believe  that 
will  be  true  in  nearly  all  of  the  missions.  I  know  it  is  in  our  mission 
field. 

I  would  like  to  encourage  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  send 
your  sons  and  daughters  into  the  mission  field.  I  think  I  can  speak 
truthfully  and  with  knowledge,  having  sent  seven  of  my  own  chil- 
dren into  the  mission  field,  when  I  say  to  you  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  you  if  you  will  do  it.  I  know  that'  he  has  blessed  me.  I  know 
that  he  has  provided  the  way,  and  from  that  point  of  view  I  can 
speak  to  you  sincerely  and  say  to  you,  if  you  will  exercise  your 
faith  in  our  Heavenly  Father  he  will  provide  the  way  for  them  to 
go. 

It  is  but  a  short  time  after  these  young  men  and  women  come 
into  our  field — even  at  the  door,  when  we  greet  them  at  the  mission 
home, — when  we  feel  that  we  are  acquainted  with  them.  It  is  but 
a  day  or  two  until  we  fairly  love  them  and  make  them  as  part  of 
our  own  family.  It  is  wonderful  to  labor  with  these  young  people. 
Their  example,  their  lives,  their  every  word  is  watched  by  the 
people  with  whom  they  labor.  I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
if  we  would  preach  a  sermon  that  would  be  powerful  and  of  great 
worth  we  must  live  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  because  our  lives 
and  our  actions  are  watched.  I  know  this  from  the  experience  I 
have  gained  in  the  short  time  that  I  have  been  away,  from  people 
who  report  to  us  who  have  visited  here  in  Utah. 

The  Saints  in  the  East  Central  States  Mission  are  very  much 
scattered.  There  are  but  few  places  where  there  are  any  number 
of  our  people  who  meet  together.  For  this  reason  we  have  a  great 
problem  in  teaching  them  spirituality  and  keeping  them  active  in 
church  work.  We  have  been  teaching  them  to  pray ;  the  two  breth- 
ren who  have  preceded  me  have  spoken  on  this  subject,  and  I  want 
to  emphasize  the  power  of  prayer.  I  believe  that  we  do  not  pray 
sincerely  enough  sometimes.  We  pray,  I  know,  but  "Prayer  is  the 
soul's  sincere  desire,  uttered  or  unexpressed."  I  want  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  pray  for  me,  to  pray  for  the  missionaries 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


who  are  away,  because  we  need  your  faith  and  your  sustaining 
power.  The  prayer  of  the  righteous  man  availeth  much. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  carry  on,  to  preach  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  the  world,  to  warn  the  people  of  the 
coming  day  when  our  Savior  will  be  here,  because  I  honestly  be- 
lieve that  that  time  is  not  far  distant.  The  prophecies  that  have 
been  made  concerning  the  coming  of  this  event  are  being  fulfilled. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  may  the  Lord  bless  you,  and  help  us 
all  to  so  live  and  conduct  our  lives  that  we  will  be  worthy  of  the 
blessings  that  we  so  much  desire  from  him  from  time  to  time,  is 
my  prayer  and  blessing,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

At  the  request  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant  the  congregation  arose 
and  sang  the  hymn  "Guide  us,  O  thou  Great  Jehovah." 

ELDER  WILFORD  W.  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  on  this,  my  first  appearance  in  this 
capacity,  I  feel  indeed  my  humility.  In  the  presence  of  that  list, 
that  great  galaxy  of  leaders  of  this  Church  just  referred  to  by 
Brother  Smith,  who  have  stood  in  this  pulpit,  and  who  have  for 
these  sixty-nine  years  administered  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  here, 
I  indeed  feel  as  though  I  stand  upon  sacred  ground.  I  have  the 
same  feeling  of  humility  with  respect  to  the  new  responsibilities 
that  have  come  to  me  recently  in  connection  with  the  North  Central 
States  Mission,  and  I  pray  most  humbly  that  my  Father  in  heaven 
will  be  kind  to  me,  and  magnify  those  meager  powers  with  which 
I  have  been  blessed  to  his  service  and  to  his  good. 

The  missionaries  and  the  Saints  of  the  North  Central  States 
Mission  are  thoughtful  of  the  Authorities  of  this  Church  and  of  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  who  constitute  the  Church  at  large.  They 
send  their  love,  their  expressions  of  loyalty  and  their  good  will. 
They  desire  to  be  known  as  energetic  workers  in  the  field  of  serv- 
ice, and  interested  in  the  activities  and  growth  of  this  great  cause. 

Just  a  few  days  ago  Sister  Richards  and  I  sat  at  a  banquet 
table  in  the  Minneapolis  branch.  A  survey  disclosed  the  fact  that 
we  were  the  only  ones  in  that  group  who  had  been  born  and  reared 
in  the  Church.  The  remainder  were  those  who  had  heard  the  Gospel 
truths  in  this  or  other  lands  and  had  responded  to  the  call.  As  we 
discussed  with  them  their  growth  in  the  Church  and  their  interest 
in  it,  their  countenances  beamed  with  joy  as  they  enumerated  the 
great  good  that  had  come  into  their  lives  as  a  result  of  their  re- 
sponse to  the  truth. 

I  have  always  been  interested,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  see- 
ing the  fruits  in  the  lives  of  the  individuals  of  the  earth  who  would 
accept  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  and  attempt  to  apply  them.  I  see 
here,  in  this  experience  and  others  of  which  this  is  only  typical,  that 


ELDER  WILFORD  IV.  RICHARDS 


57 


great  perpetual  miracle  by  which  our  Father  in  heaven  takes  the 
souls  of  his  sons  or  daughters  and  remakes  them  for  his  service. 
Many  of  them  have  given  up  habits  that  are  unclean,  given  up 
practices  that  were  injurious,  and  given  their  lives  and  souls  to  the 
growth,  development,  and  power  of  the  service  of  God.  I  have  al- 
ways been  interested  in  the  spiritual  responses  that  come  to  those 
who  have  attempted  to  apply  themselves  to  the  truth,  but  this  has 
impressed  me  more  in  the  mission  field  of  recent  date,  I  think,  than 
ever  before.  So  I  desire  that  we,  as  members  of  this  great  kingdom 
of  our  Father  in  heaven,  may  be  ever  worthy  of  that  touch  of  his 
which  will  inspire  in  us  a  desire  to  grow  in  the  direction  of  service. 

Today  I  appreciate  the  opportunity  of  gathering  with  you.  I 
appreciate  the  confidence  of  my  brethren.  I  appreciate  my  asso- 
ciation with  the  missionaries  and  the  Saints  of  the  world.  I  rejoice 
in  the  vital  fires  which  the  Gospel  is  able  to  kindle  in  the  lives  of 
those  who  are  willing  to  serve  and  to  put  themselves  in  harmony 
therewith. 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  exemplify  in  our  lives  that 
thing  which  the  Savior  meant  when  he  said :  "By  their  fruits  ye 
shall  know  them,"  to  the  end  that  the  fruits  of  our  lives  may  be 
always  the  fruits  of  righteousness,  fruits  of  service,  fruits  of  glory 
unto  his  name  everlasting. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this  great  work  and 
the  power  of  it  in  our  lives,  if  we  will  but  apply  it.  May  God  bless 
us  that  we  may  serve  him  earnestly  and  humbly,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

I  appreciate  beyond  my  power  to  express  the  great  privilege 
that  has  come  to  me  in  again  acting  as  a  missionary  in  the  nations 
of  the  world.  I  am  grateful  that  I  find  myself  in  full  fellowship, 
sustaining  and  upholding  the  Authorities  of  this  church,  for  I  be- 
lieve that  they  are  inspired  by  the  light  and  power  of  God,  our 
Eternal  Father,  to  lead  and  direct  his  people  in  the  paths  of  right- 
eousness, and  their  appreciation  for  this  great  and  mighty  work  is 
inspiring  and  uplifting. 

I  should  like  to  say  just  a  word  in  reference  to  my  predecessor, 
President  Sloan.  He  has  done  an  excellent  work  in  the  Northwest- 
ern States  Mission.  He  has  endeared  himself  to  the  hearts  of 
many  people.  They  appreciate  his  labors.  It  is  my  pleasure  to  re- 
port that  one  of  the  outstanding  features  since  we  have  been  called 
into  the  ministry  is  the  tour  around  the  mission  that  we  made  in 
August  with  Apostle  Reed  Smoot  and  his  wife.  Everywhere  we 
went  we  were  greeted  with  crowded  houses.  Our  chapels  were 
filled  with  not  only  our  own  people,  but  with  many  friends  and  in- 
vestigators. In  many  places  we  were  favored  with  the  presence  of 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


lawyers,  judges,  business  and  professional  men ;  indeed  men  of  af- 
fairs in  these  respective  places  came  out  to  hear  Apostle  Smoot. 
The  good  that  he  accomplished  in  the  Northwest  I  am  sure  cannot 
be  estimated.  The  reactions  since  his  visit  have  been  fine  and  splen- 
did. We  appreciate  very  much  the  wonderful  amount  of  work  that 
he  did. 

We  have  found  since  going  into  that  fine  and  delightful  coun- 
try a  warmth  among  the  people.  They  are  responsive.  They  like 
to  visit  with  you.  Their  prejudices,  if  they  ever  had  any,  have 
vanished.  As  a  result,  we  are  invited  into  the  homes  of  many  people, 
unfolding  to  them  the  Gospel  message  as  revealed  ,in  these  the 
last  days.  As  a  result,  many  are  coming  into  the  Church,  many 
are  investigating,  many  friends  are  being  made,  and  we  are  very 
happy  in  the  prospects  ahead. 

We  have  a  small  but  very  intelligent  group  of  missionaries.  I 
bring  from  them  their  love  and  appreciation  to  their  fathers  and 
mothers  who  are  keeping  them  in  the  mission  field.  They  are  well 
physically,  mentally  and  spiritually,  and  are  doing  their  very  best 
to  promote,  teach  and  preach  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  our 
Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  fine  to  be  associated  with 
them,  to  feel  of  their  spirit,  to  witness  their  determination  in  .their 
labors,  and  to  see  the  development  that  is  taking  place  from  time 
to  time  in  their  lives.  They  are  laboring  in  a  delightful  and  beau- 
tiful country. 

There  is  nothing  in  life,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
gives  us  so  much  pleasure  as  bearing  witness  to  this  great  and 
mighty  work,  not  only  at  home,  but  in  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I 
have  thought  that  to  have  a  testimony  concerning  the  divinity  of  this 
work  is  the  greatest  thing  that  can  come  to  any  Latter-day  Saint. 
Our  testimonies  increase  and  grow  because  of  our  service,  because 
of  our  faith  and  the  quality  of  prayer  that  we  offer  up  to  God,  our 
Eternal  Father,  day  by  day.  We  are  dealing  with  divine  truth,  and 
the  exercise  of  it  brings  freedom  to  our  souls,  also  brings  us  in  touch 
with  our  Father  in  heaven. 

Bancroft  tells  us : 

No  truth  can  perish :  No  truth  can  pass  away :  The  flame  is  undying  though 
generations  disappear.  Whenever  moral  truth  has  struck  into  being,  humanity 
claims  and  guards  its  greatest  bequest.  Each  generation  gathers  together  im- 
perishable children  of  the  past  and  increases  them  by  new  sons  of  light  alike  radi- 
ant with  immortality. 

Truth  is  one.  It  never  contradicts  itself.  One  truth  cannot  contradict  another 
truth.  Hence  truth  is  the  bond  of  union.  But  error  not  only  contradicts  truth  but 
may  contradict  itself;  so  that  there  may  be  many  errors  and  each  at  variance 
with  the  rest.  Truth  is  therefore  of  necessity  an  element  of  harmony;  error  as 
necessarily  an  element  of  discord. 

The  world  can  advance  only  through  the  culture  and  intellectual  powers 
of  the  people.  To  accomplish  this  end  by  means  of  the  people  themselves  is  the 
highest  purpose  of  government.  If  it  be  the  duty  of  the  individual  to  strive  after 
a  perfection  like  the  perfection  of  God,  how  much  more  ought  a  nation  to  be  the 
image  of  duty. 

If  I  interpret  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 


59 


correctly,  we  can  advance  only  in  our  spiritual  selves  by  adhering 
to  those  everlasting  principles  of  truth  that  come  to  us  through 
the  Gospel  of  our  Savior.  He  established  the  code  for  human  be- 
havior which  when  built  upon  leads  us  into  an  everlasting  under- 
standing of  the  saving  graces  of  his  divine  Gospel. 

I  desire,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  to  leave  with  you  my 
humble  testimony  concerning  the  divinity  of  this  great  and  mighty 
work.  I  know  that  God  lives,  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  an  instrumentality  through  which  God  op- 
erated in  bringing  to  pass  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  with  all  of 
its  saving  graces  and  powers.  May  he  bless  us  with  the  spirit  of 
appreciation  for  the  great  opportunities  that  are  ours,  and  may  we 
always  deem  it  a  high  privilege  to  proclaim  these  truths  whenever 
opportunity  affords.  May  we  uphold  and  sustain  those  who  have 
been  called  to  lead  and  direct  us  in  this  day  and  time.  God  bless 
them.  May  they  have  the  light  of  wisdom  and  the  power  of  his 
Holy  Spirit  to  ever  guide  and  direct  his  people,  is  my  humble 
prayer  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

I  deem  it  a  great  honor,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  priv- 
ileged to  preside  in  the  Southern  States  Mission  of  this  Church. 
One  of  the  greatest  opportunities,  I  think,  that  could  come  to  any 
man  or  woman  is  the  association  of  the  fine  young  men  and  women 
who  are  sent  out  from  your  homes  to  represent  this  Church  in 
teaching  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  it  is  pleasing 
to  the  Church  and  pleasing  to  the  parents  to  know  that  these  boys 
and  girls  are  not  only  teaching  the  Gospel  by  precept,  but  by  ex- 
ample. They  are  worthy  to  go  and  cry  repentance  to  the  world, 
because  they  are  sweet  and  clean,  noble  young  people.  I  rejoice 
every  day  in  the  privilege  of  their  association,  and  feel  that  I  am 
becoming  a  better  man  because  of  it. 

Roger  W.  Babson  says  that  statistics  show  that  the  greatest 
undeveloped  resources  in  America  are  not  our  mines  or  our  forests 
or  our  streams,  but  rather  the  human  souls  of  our  men  and  women. 
I  am  sure  there  is  no  place  where  the  development  of  human  souls 
is  more  rapid  than  in  the  mission  field.  I  am  grateful  for  the  won- 
derful contribution  made  by  the  auxiliary  organizations  of  this 
Church  in  preparing  our  youth  for  the  responsibilities  of  the  mis- 
sion field,  so  that  when  they  arrive  they  grow  rapidly. 

I  was  impressed  with  the  statement  made  by  Dr.  Widtsoe 
yesterday,  wherein  he  referred  to  the  fundamentals  of  this  Church 
that  have  stood  the  test  for  a  hundred  years  and  over,  and  have  not 
been  changed.  When  our  boys  arrive  in  the  mission  field,  and  go 
out  to  compare  our  teachings  with  the  teachings  of  other  people, 
they  find  an  unsettled  condition.  Men's  minds  are  unsettled  with 
respect  to  the  philosophies  of  life  and  with  respect  to  religious 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


teachings.  Our  missionaries  soon  detect  it.  We  have  many  men  in 
the  Southern  States  who  are  ministers  of  the  Gospel,  who  are  in- 
terested in  the  teachings  of  our  missionaries.  We  had  the  privilege, 
a  few  weeks  ago,  of  baptizing  one  of  them  with  his  wife  and  eldest 
son,  and  he  was  delighted  with  the  wonderful  truths  he  found  at 
the  hands  of  our  missionaries. 

We  baptized  a  young  woman  a  few  weeks  ago  whose  father 
is  an  ordained  minister  of  the  Gospel,  and  we  baptized  her.  with 
the  consent  of  her  father.  The  missionaries  are  now  visiting  him 
regularly  in  his  home  and  teaching  him  the  truth,  and  he  marvels 
at  the  wonderful  interpretation  they  give  of  the  scriptures. 

In  a  group  of  missionaries  that  arrived  a  few  weeks  ago  one 
young  man  seemed  to  be  a  little  perturbed.  I  took  him  apart  from 
the  other  missionaries  and  asked  him  what  he  thought  of  the 
Gospel ;  if  there  was  anything  about  it  he  did  not  understand,  and 
he  expressed  his  doubt  on  a  few  points  of  doctrine.  After  attempt- 
ing to  clarify  his  mind  I  gave  him  a  fine  companion  and  sent  him 
into  the  mission  field.  In  about  two  weeks  I  received  a  marvelous 
letter  from  him.  He  said :  "President  Richards,  I  have  been  here 
long  enough  to  find  out  the  Gospel  is  true." 

I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
these  boys  and  girls  are  teaching  the  Gospel  by  example.  An 
article  appeared  in  the  July  issue  of  the  American  Magazine,  called 
"Kingdom  in  the  Desert."  Many  of  you  may  have  read  it.  There 
are  some  very  erroneous  statements  made  in  that  article,  but  not- 
withstanding this  fact,  the  writer  did  acknowledge  that  in  his  in- 
vestigation here  in  Salt  Lake  City  he  had  found  that  there  was  one 
standard  of  morality,  both  among  the  business  men  and  men  of 
the  shops.  One  of  our  very  dear  friends  in  Atlanta,  Georgia,  wrote 
an  answer  to  that  article.  I  would  like  to  read  two  paragraphs  of 
her  letter.  She  said : 

I  am  a  Presbyterian  in  good  and  regular  standing,  strong  in  the  faith,  but  it 
has  been  my  privilege  to  know  well,  over  a  period  of  twelve  years,  the  many 
young  missionaries  of  the  Mormon  faith  who  have  passed  through  the  Southern 
States  Mission  home  at  Atlanta. 

If  there  are  any  young  people  today  who  know  where  they  are  going,  it  is  the 
Mormon  young  people.  Brought  up  to  seek  education,  to  love  music  and  the  fine 
arts,  to  do  without  stimulants  of  any  kind,  and  to  lead  clean  lives,  they  have  the 
foundation  for  useful  and  happy  homes,  and  are  certainly  not  proceeding  under 
the  momentum  supplied  by  Brigham  Young. 

I  feel  sure  this  woman  was  sincere  in  her  statements,  because 
she  told  Sister  Richards  she  wanted  her  girls  to  marry  Mormon 
boys.  Sister  Richards  said:  "Well,  the  Mormon  boys'  mothers  may 
want  them  to  marry  Mormon  girls." 

She  said,  "Of  course  I  would  expect  my  girls  to  become  Mor- 
mons. 

We  had  the  privilege  of  meeting  some  fine  business  people  in 
Birmingham,  Alabama,  recently,  and  holding  a  meeting  with  them, 
lnese  people  stood  high  in  the  business  world,  and  also  in  their 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


61 


own  church.  After  our  meeting  one  of  the  men  beckoned  to  Sister 
Richards.  He  wanted  to  talk  with  her  alone.  He  had  with  him  that 
night  in  the  meeting  a  beautiful  young  daughter  and  a  son,  both 
college  students,  and  he  asked  Sister  Richards  this  question :  "What 
about  the  youth  of  your  Church?"  He  said:  "Have  you  any  mar- 
ried children?"  Sister  Richards  informed  him  that  she  had  three 
married  daughters.  He  said:  "Did  they  marry  Mormon  mission- 
aries?" and  she  acknowledged  that  they  did.  He  wanted  to  know 
if  she  could  trust  her  daughters  with  these  boys.  Sister  Richards 
said :  "Why,  those  boys  were  as  sweet  and  clean  when  they  took 
my  girls,  as  my  girls  were."  He  said :  "I  can  not  understand  it." 
And  by  the  way,  he  stood  high  in  his  own  church.  "I  do  not  know 
a  young  man  to  whom  I  would  trust  my  daughter."  Sister  Richards 
pointed  to  a  young  man  standing  in  the  corner,  a  young  man 
twenty-one  years  of  age,  president  of  that  district,  his  mission 
about  completed,  and  she  said :  "There  is  a  young  man  as  sweet 
and  clean  as  any  girl  that  ever  lived."  He  surveyed  him  from  head 
to  foot  and  said :  "I  believe  it." 

I  want  to  bear  testimony  in  closing,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  these  boys  and  girls  are  making  an  impression  upon  the  world. 
I  stood  in  one  of  the  great  railroad  stations  of  the  South  a  few 
months  ago,  and  read  some  statistics  which  I  think  are  more  alarm- 
ing than  all  the  statistics  of  finance  that  we  are  so  greatly  con- 
cerned about  in  this  nation  today,  a  statement  made  by  the  Bureau  of 
Vital  Statistics  of  the  United  States  of  America,  to  the  effect  that  each 
year  770,000  boys  reach  their  majority  in  the  United  States,  and  of  that 
number  480,000,  or  over  half  of  them,  are  either  suffering  from  venereal 
diseases, or  will  do,  during  the  course  of  their  lifetime, — and  that  in  this 
great  Christian  nation. 

No  wonder  our  friend  from  Birmingham  did  not  know  where 
to  find  a  young  man  to  whom  he  could  trust  his  daughter.  Then  I 
realized  something  of  the  magnitude  of  the  task  before  us,  as  stated 
by  Mr.  Babson,  to  whom  I  have  referred,  in  developing  the  souls 
of  America's  men  and  women.  I  thank  God  for  the  Mormon 
boys  and  girls  who  have  kept  themselves  sweet  and  clean,  and  I 
say :  Who  in  all  the  world  has  a  better  right  to  cry,,  as  John  the 
Revelator  said  they  should  do  in  the  latter  days :  "Come  out  of  her, 
my  people,  that  ye  be  not  partakers  of  her  sins,  and  that  yt  receive 
not  of  her  plagues."  Our  boys  and  girls  have  the  right  to  thus 
cry  to  this  Babylon  of  today. 

God  bless  you  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  your  missionary 
boys  and  girls,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANK  I.  KOOYMAN 

Former  President  of  the  Netherlands  Mission 

It  certainly  is  an  inspiration,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  here 
with  you  in  conference,  and  to  enjoy  the  wonderful  spirit  that  is  present. 
I  was  thrilled  this  morning  when  I  heard  President  Grant  announce 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  Brother  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  who  many  years  ago  labored  in  Hol- 
land where  I  have  been  presiding  for  the  past  four  -and  a  half  years,  had 
been  chosen  as  one  of  the  Twelve.  It  was  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  who  took 
me  into  the  water  and  baptized  me.  I  have  always  looked  upon  him  as 
a  real  servant  of  God.  When  I  was  in  his  presence  I  could  understand 
why  it  was  that  people  testified  about  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  President 
Brigham  Young  and  others,  that  no  matter  how  much  these  men  were 
slandered,  if  they  could  only  come  into  their  presence,  could  feel  what 
kind  of  men  they  were,  all  ill  feelings  would  leave  them.  I  have  the  very 
tenderest  spot  in  my  heart  for  Brother  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  and  I  thank 
my  Father  in  heaven  for  the  joy  that  his  service  brought  to  me.  I  know 
his  appointment  is  by  inspiration. 

I  have  very  much  enjoyed  my  labors  in  Holland.  It  has  been  a 
pleasure  to  try  to  follow  the  instructions  that  were  given  to  us  by  Pres- 
ident John  A.  Widtsoe,  who  was  in  charge  of  the  European  Mission 
while  I  was  there.  What  a  joy  it  was  to  teach,  especially  our  young  peo- 
ple, through  the  labors  of  our  auxiliary  organizations.  The  people  at 
large  there  did  not  seem  to  be  very  much  impressed  with  our  teachings, 
not  very  much  interested,  so  we  started  to  labor  with  our  young  people, 
to  get  them  into  uniform  action  with  all  the  groups  at  home. 

What  an  inspiration  it  was  to  receive  our  young  men,  our  young 
Elders,  and  train  them  to  work  with  our  local  people  there,  to  see  them 
develop  and  take  hold  of  the  work,  and  to  hear  them  sing  the  songs  of 
Zion  with  the  same  spirit  that  we  sing  them  here. 

And  by  the  way,  what  would  our  M.  I.  A.  leaders  say  should  they 
be  over  there  and  attend  a  meeting  of  our  young  people,  an  inspiring 
meeting,  when  the  one  in  charge  of  the  congregation  might  lean  over 
and  ask :   "What  would  you  suggest  we  sing  ?" 

They  might  say :  "Let's  sing  'Carry  On.'  " 

"Well,  we  haven't  got  it  in  our  language." 

"  'True  to  the  Faith,'  then." 

"We  haven't  got  it." 

"  Tut  your  Shoulder  to  the  Wheel.'  " 

"Oh,  no,  we  haven't  got  that  translated  yet,  either." 

That  was  the  condition.  Then,  if  the  Lord  had  blessed  you,  that  you 
had,  perhaps,  a  little  ability  to  translate,  you  would  try  to  put  these  songs 
into  the  other  language.  "Firm  as  the  mountains  around  us" — what 
does  the  Hollander  know  about  mountains?  Not  a  thing.  "And  we 
hear  the  desert  , singing" — they  have  never  seen  a  desert.  So,  of  course, 
we  have  our  difficulties,  but  still,  with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  we  have 
been  able  to  translate  these  songs,  and  now  the  Saints  are  singing  them. 

Our  young  people  are  entering  their  tenth  year  of  Mutual  work, 
and  they  feel  that  same  spirit,  that  same  thrill  that  we  feel  when  we  sing 
"Carry  On,"  when  we  sing,  "True  to  the  Faith,"  and  "Put  your  Shoulder 
to  the  Wheel." 

I  thank  my  Father  in  heaven  for  my  contact  with  this  great  latter- 
day  work,  for  my  contact  with  men  like  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  and  all  of  our 
leaders— President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  presiding  over  the  European 


ELDER  FRANK  I.  KOOYMAN 


63 


Mission  when  I  was  on  my  first  mission.  Oh,  I  thank  my  Father  in 
heaven  that  I  stood  next  to  that  man  as  an  interpreter  and  felt  the  power 
of  God,  for  I  was  unable  to  talk  English  at  that  time.  I  was  just  study- 
ing the  language  and  in  the  beginning  I  could  not  remember  half  of  what 
President  Grant  said.  Then  some  time  later,  when  that  beautiful  inspira- 
tion, that  power  of  God,  descended  upon  both  of  us,  there  was  the  word 
of  God,'  an  interpretation  that  couldn't  be  better.  Thanks  to  our  Father 
in  heaven ! 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  opportunity  I  have  had  of  laboring  in 
the  mission  field,  for  the  opportunity  I  have  now  of  laboring  among  the 
people  at  home,  of  bearing  testimony  that  God  has  spoken,  that  his 
servants  are  again  upon  the  earth,  that  we  have  his  Priesthood,  that  we 
have  a  living  Church. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  realize  our  opportunities,  to  live  such  lives 
that  his  power  and  influence  may  be  felt  through  us,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  been  edified  and  made  happy  in  the  testimonies  of  my  breth- 
ren, as  they  have  been  presented  at  the  sessions  of  this  conference.  I  in- 
dorse all  that  has  been  said.  I  have  been  in  somewhat  of  a  conflict  in  my 
own  mind,  feeling  that  I  would  be  called  on,  to  know  just  what  I  should 
say,  because  so  many  things  have  been  presented  and  could  be  enlarged 
upon. 

THE  REVEALED  WORD  OF  THE  LORD 

I  shall  read  a  passage  from  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  where  the  Lord 
says : 

And  whoso  treasureth  up  my  word  shall  not  be  deceived. 

I  have  been  pleading  for  years  with  the  members  of  the  Church, 
as  I  have  traveled  up  and  down  through  the  stakes  of  Zion,  to  get  them 
to  read  the  scriptures.  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  there  are  a  great  many 
members  of  this  Church  who  would  be  offended  if  any  one  should  say 
that  they  were  not  in  good  standing,  and  yet  they  are  not  familiar  with  the 
revealed  word  of  the  Lord. 

I  know  of  no  time  in  the  history  of  this  Church,  of  no  time  in  the 
history  of  the  world,  when  it  has  been  more  important  or  necessary  for 
the  people  to  know  the  will  of  God,  and  to  make  themselves  acquainted 
with  that  which  he  has  revealed. 

TO  ESTABLISH  TRUTH  OF  SCRIPTURES 

In  the  revelations  given  to  this  Church  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  we  are  informed  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  came  forth  for  the 
purpose  of  establishing  the  truth  of  the  Jewish  scriptures,  in  the  hearts 
of  the  people.    In  a  revelation  that  was  given  at  the  time  the  Church 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  organized  the  Lord  said,  speaking  of  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  and  the  mission  of  the  Prophet  in  translating  it : 

God  administered  unto  him  by  an  holy  angel,  whose  countenance  was  as  light- 
ning, and  whose  garments  were  pure  and  white  above  all  other  whiteness; 

And  gave  him  power  from  on  high,  by  the  means  which  were  before  prepared, 
to  translate  the  Book  of  Mormon; 

Which  contains  a  record  of  a  fallen  people,  and  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  to  the  Gentiles  and  to  the  Jew  also ; 

Which  was  given  by  inspiration,  and  is  confirmed  to  others  by  the  ministering 
of  angels,  and  is  declared  unto  the  world  by  them — 

Proving  to  the  world  that  the  holy  scriptures  are  true,  and  that  God  does 
inspire  men  and  call  them  to  his  holy  work  in  this  age  and  generation,  as  well 
as  in  generations  of  old. 

LACK  OF  FAITH  IN  CHRIST^  MISSION 

It  is  a  sad  thing,  but  true,  that  the  world  today,  the  so-called  Chris- 
tian world,  does  not  stand  fundamentally  upon  the  mission  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  the  revealed  word  of  God.  I  grant  you  there  are,  scattered 
among  those  who  profess  the  Christian  faith,  many  who  do  have  faith  and 
do  acknowledge  Christ  as  the  Son  of  God,  but  the  tendency  of  the  times 
is  against  it.  The  teachings  of  our  day  are  against  it.  The  theories  of 
men  are  against  it.  I  think  I  know  what  I  am  speaking  about,  because 
I  have  studied  them. 

IN  CONFLICT  WITH  GOD's  WORD 

Any  theory  that  presents  as  a  fact  a  statement  that  man  has  evolved 
from  other  forms,  and  has  not  always  been  a  sentient  being,  capable  of 
thought,  of  reasoning,  is  in  conflict  with  the  word  of  the  Lord,  as  has 
been  pointed  out  already  by  Elder  Taylor  in  his  remarks  here  yesterday. 
Any  doctrine  that  presents  a  view  contrary  to  that  which  has  been  given 
by  revelation,  that  Adam  was  placed  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,  that  by 
violation  of  the  law  he  brought  death  into  the  world,  and  through  that 
death  sin  and  all  the  vicissitudes  of  mortality  have  come, — such  a  doc- 
trine is  in  conflict  with  the  revealed  word  of  God. 

Any  doctrine  that  declares  that  man  has  always  been  a  fallen  cre- 
ature, or  in  other  words,  subject  to  the  mortal  conditions  as  we  find 
them  today,  strikes  at  the  vitals  of  the  Christian  faith.  Any  doctrine 
that  will  say  there  was  no  Garden  of  Eden,  no  need  of  Adam,  no  fall, 
no  transgression  by  our  first  parents,  also  teaches  that  there  is  no 
redemption  from  the  fall  and  that  the  need  of  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Re- 
deemer is  unnecessary.  If  there  had  been  no  fall  there  would  have  been 
no  redemption ;  there  would  have  been  no  need  of  Jesus  Christ  coming, 
as  he  declared  he  did  come,  and  as  it  has  been  declared  by  the  prophets, 
to  repair  a  broken  law  and  to  restore  again  that  which  was  lost  and  to 
redeem  men  from  the  fallen  condition.  I  think  what  I  say  is  logical, 
reasonable,  and  above  all,  it  is  scriptural. 

BEARS  TESTIMONY  OF  CHRIST  AND  HIS  MISSION 

I  believe  in  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son  of  God  and  the  only  begotten 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  65 


Son  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh ;  that  he  came  into  the  world  as  the  Re- 
deemer, as  the  Savior ;  and  through  his  death,  through  his  ministry,  the 
shedding  of  his  blood,  he  has  brought  to  pass  redemption  from  death 
to  all  men,  to  all  creatures — not  alone  to  man,  but  to  every  living  thing, 
and  even  to  this  earth  itself,  upon  which  we  stand,  for  we  are  informed 
through  the  revelations  that  it  too  shall  receive  the  resurrection  and  come 
forth  to  be  crowned  as  a  celestial  body,  and  to  be  the  abode  of  celestial 
-  beings  eternally. 

I  believe  in  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Savior  of  all  men  who  are  willing 
to  repent  and  receive  the  Gospel,  and  not  the  Savior  to  any  others,  in  the 
sense  that  he  will  give  unto  them  an  exaltation  and  bring  them  back  again 
into  the  presence  of  God  the  Father.  Yet  he  is  the  Savior  of  all  men 
and  will  bless  every  creature,  every  soul,  as  far  as  he  is  able  to  bless,  ac- 
cording to  their  works. 

JOSEPH  SMITH  AND  HIS  WORK 

I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  called  of  God ;  that  he,  as  the  instru- 
ment in  the  hands  of  the  Lord,  introduced  again  to  the  world  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  by  the  power  of  God  established  anew  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  in  all  the  world,  now  called  "of  Latter-day  Saints,"  to  dis- 
tinguish it  from  the  church  of  former-day  Saints.  This  is  my  testimony. 
There  isn't  time,  of  course,  to  enlarge  upon  these  things,  but  I  know  this  is 
true.  I  know  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
these  men  who  are  called  to  stand  at  the  head  do  have  the  inspiration  and 
the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit  which  is  upon  them. 

THAT  WE  MAY  WALK  IN  THE  TRUTH 

And  I  do  know  that  it  is  a  requirement  that  is  made  of  us,  as  mem- 
bers of  this  Church,  to  make  ourselves  familiar  with  that  which  the 
Lord  has  revealed,  that  we  may  not  be  led  astray,  for  the  Lord  has  said 
there  are  many  spirits  abroad  in  the  land ;  some  of  them  are  the  spirits  of 
men,  some  are  the  spirits  of  devils  ;  but  he  has  given  unto  us  his  Spirit,  if 
we  will  receive  it,  and  that  Spirit  leads  and  directs  in  all  truth.  How  are 
we  going  to  walk  in  the  truth  if  we  do  not  know  it  ? 

I  bear  this  testimony.  May  the  Lord  bless  us,  guide  and  protect  us, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  OLIVER  H.  BUDGE 

Former  President  of  the  G erman- Austrian  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters  and  good  friends  of  the  Church,  I  am 
indeed  pleased,  after  an  absence  of  more  than  four  years,  to  have  the 
privilege  of  attending  this  one  hundred  and  fifth  semi-annual  conference 
of  the  Church  of  our  Lord,  and  to  again  be  able  to  associate  myself  with 
the  leading  brethren  of  the  Church,  as  well  as  with  all  those  in  conference 
assembled. 

In  reporting  the  German- Austrian  Mission  may  I  say  that  the  work 
of  the  Lord  in  that  part  of  his  vineyard  is  progressing,  and  that  the  Saints 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


are  rejoicing  in  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel.  I  bring  greetings  to  you 
from  all  of  the  missionaries  and  from  approximately  eight  thousand 
members.  The  German  Saints  express  the  hope  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  here  in  Zion  are  appreciating  their  membership  in  the  Church, 
and  that  they  are  true  and  faithful  to  the  covenants  they  have  made  with 
God. 

Upon  my  arrival  in  the  German- Austrian  Mission  in  October,  1930, 
I  discovered  that  the  financial  condition  of  the  mission  was  anything 
but  desirable,  but  with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  the  missionaries,  the  breth- 
ren of  the  Priesthood,  and  the  Saints  generally,  we  were  in  a  position, 
by  July,  1932,  to  pay  all  of  our  indebtedness  in  the  mission,  in  the  vari- 
ous districts,  in  the  branches  and  in  the  organizations  of  the  branches ; 
and  from  that  day  to  this  we  have  been  able  to  meet  our  obligations 
promptly. 

The  auxiliary  organizations  in  the  mission  are  fully  organized,  with 
a  board  for  each.  Each  organization  has  sufficient  means  to  pay  for  its 
traveling  expenses,  its  circulars,  stationery  and  the  like.  Since  July, 
1932,  no  auxiliary  organization  has  had  as  much  as  one  mark  from  the 
general  fund  of  the  mission.  The  mission  is  now  in  a  very  healthy  condi- 
tion, financially  and  spiritually. 

When  I  arrived  in  the  mission  all  of  the  districts  were  presided  over 
by  missionaries  from  home.  Today  all  of  the  districts  are  presided  over 
by  local  brethren  of  the  Priesthood.  Thirty  per  cent  of  the  branches 
were  then  in  the  hands  of  local  brethren.  Today  ninety-seven  per  cent 
of  the  branches  are  presided  over  by  them.  In  other  words,  out  of 
seventy-seven  branches  all  are  presided  over  by  local  brethren  except 
three. 

I  am  thoroughly  converted  to  the  idea  of  turning  the  responsibilities 
of  the  mission  over  to  local  brethren  and  sisters.  They  are  just  as 
capable,  just  as  intelligent,  and  just  as  able  to  conduct  the  affairs  as  we,  if 
they  are  properly  taught.  As  with  the  Priesthood,  so  with  the  Saints. 
I  think  that  our  work  should  be  taken  up  principally  with  the  Priest- 
hood ;  teaching  them  proper  principles,  and  why  this,  that  and  the  other  is 
done,  and  how  to  do  it.   They  will  take  care  of  the  rest. 

Upon  my  arrival  there  were  a  hundred  and  sixty-two  missionaries  in 
the  German-Austrian  Mission,  and  let  me  say  to  you  this  afternoon  that, 
with  a  very  few  exceptions,  I  think  the  Church  has  never  produced  bet- 
ter young  men  than  we  have  had  and  still  have  in  that  mission.  They 
are  clean  and  sweet  in  their  habits.  They  are  obedient  and  humble. 
If  we  have  made  any  progress  worth  the  mentioning,  I  desire  that  the 
credit  be  equally  divided  with  these  missionaries. 

We  had  the  misfortune,  during  my  time,  to  lose  two  missionaries  in 
the  field,  Elder  Arthur  Wright  and  Elder  Dale  Read,  of  Ogden.  Both 
of  these  men  came  into  the  mission  field  with  the  proper  spirit  and  with 
a  determination  to  serve  God,  and  God  only.  It  was  not  possible,  how- 
ever, for  them  to  devote  very  much  of  their  time  to  the  work.  God'willed 
it  otherwise.  Elder  Melvin  A.  Ashton,  another  good  missionary,  died  in 
this  city  soon  after  his  return  home.   Brother  Melvin  Ashton  was  also 


ELDER  OLIVER  H.  BUDGE 


67 


one  of  God's  choice  spirits.  He  was  the  secretary  of  the  mission.  I  tell 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  when  we  witnessed  the  suffering  of 
these  men,  and  finally  their  death,  our  heart-strings  were  pulled,  because 
we  loved  them  almost  as  we  love  our  own  sons. 

Sister  Budge  was  of  great  assistance  in  the  mission,  and  accom- 
plished much  with  the  Relief  Society,  the  young  women,  and  the  Primary 
organization.  There  had  been  little  or  nothing  done  in  Primary  work 
up  to  the  time  of  our  arrival.  Sister  Budge,  with  her  assistants,  succeeded 
in  enrolling  at  one  time  fifteen  hundred  children  in  the  Primary  work. 
Fifty  to  sixty  per  cent  of  these  children's  parents  are  non-members  of 
the  Church.  The  Primaries  were  regular  and  neighborhood  Primaries. 
I  would  that  Sister  Budge  could  explain  to  you  just  how  the  work  was 
conducted  and  just  how  much  in  this  regard  was  accomplished. 

I  am  grateful  to  the  leading  brethren  of  the  Church  for  the  oppor- 
tunity I  have  had  of  filling  a  mission  in  that  part  of  the  Lord's  vineyard. 
I  desire  to  say  that  the  Church  owes  me  nothing.  I  shall  never  live  long 
enough  to  repay  the  Church  for  what  it  has  done  for  me.  I  desire  to 
continue  to  be  humble  and  obedient.  The  Authorities  of  the  Church 
have  never  had  occasion  to  ask  me  if  I  were  willing  to  do  this  or  that  or  the 
other ;  all  they  had  to  do  was  to  tell  me  to  do  it. 

I  know  that  the  Gospel  is  true.  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  and  that  the  Holy  Ghost  will  lead  and  direct  us  in  all 
righteousness,  if  we  put  ourselves  in  a  position  to  be  led  by  him.  May  we 
all  so  live  that  we  shall  be  able  to  say,  although  the  world  is  full  of  devils 
who  seek  to  overthrow  us,  we  fear  not,  for  in  the  end  we  shall  win.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  what  is  right,"  after  which 
the  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle,  President 
of  the  Cottonwood  Stake. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  Saturday  afternoon. 

President  Grant  announced  that  the  congregation  would  join  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere  desire." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  Elder  Heber  J.  Burgon,  President 
of  the  East  Jordan  Stake,  offered  the  invocation. 

Sister  Bessie  Morley  sang  a  sacred  solo,  "To  every  heart." 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  do  not  think  that  I  ever  attended  a  General  Conference  of  the 
Church  when  I  have  felt  a  greater  portion  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
and  when  I  have  been  more  in  accord  with  the  statements  made  by  those 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


who  spoke.  There  is  an  echo  in  my  heart  to  all  that  has  been  said,  and  I 
am  quite  sure  that  everyone  present  has  that  same  feeling  of  loyalty  to 
the  Church. 

CHARGES  IN  SMOOT  INVESTIGATION 

I  picked  up  volume  three  of  the  "Investigation  of  Reed  Smoot,"  and 
it  opened  to  page  593.  I  read  these  words,  which  are  part  of  the  charges 
made  against  me  by  Mr.  Tayler,  the  prosecuting  attorney,  I  may  term 
him,  at  that  time : 

Several  hundred  thousand  sincere  men  and  women  have  believed  and  now 
believe,  as  they  believe  in  their  own  existence,  that  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.  received 
revelations  direct  from  God,  and  if  anyone  ever  believed  that  we  must  assume  that 
Senator  Smoot  believes  it. 

Now  a  Senator  of  the  United  States  might  believe  anything  else  in  the  world 
but  that  and  not  be  ineligible  to  a  seat  in  the  body  to  which  he  belongs.  He  might 
believe  in  polygamy ;  he  might  believe  that  murder  was  commendable ;  he  might 
deny  the  propriety  as  a  rule  of  life  of  all  the  ten  commandments ;  he  might  believe 
in  the  sacrifice  of  human  life ;  he  might  believe  in  no  God  or  in  a  thousand  gods ; 
he  might  be  Jew  or  Gentile,  Mohammedan  or  Buddhist,  atheist  or  pantheist ;  he 
might  believe  that  the  world  began  last  year  and  would  end  next  year,  but  to 
believe  with  the  kind  of  conviction  that  Reed  Smoot  possesses  that  God  speaks 
to  him  or  may  speak  to  him  is  to  admit  by  the  inevitable  logic  of  his  conviction 
that  there  is  a  superior  authority  with  whom  here  and  now  he  may  converse,  and 
whose  command  he  can  no  more  refuse  to  obey  than  he  can  will  himself  not  to 
think. 

FAITH  IN  GOD  AND  HIS  REVELATIONS 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  my  answer  to  the  charges  of  Mr.  Tayler, 
do  you  think  for  a  moment  that  I  would  admit  that  I  was  not  to  be  a 
Senator  because  I  believed  in  a  living  God;  because  I  believed  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  establishing  God's  work 
here  upon  this  earth  in  this  dispensation  ?  No.  I  wanted  every  Senator 
and  every  person  in  all  the  world,  if  it  were  possible,  to  understand  that 
the  charge  that  was  made  against  me  upon  that  occasion  I  agreed  was 
correct  as  far  as  my  belief  in  receiving  revelations  from  God,  or  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God.  I  never  want  to  live  long 
enough  that  that  testimony  shall  not  be  burning  in  my  soul.  Rather 
would  I  die  than  have  such  a  thing  happen  to  me.  I  know  that  he  was 
a  prophet  of  God.  I  know  that  God  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  appeared 
to  him.  I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  and  just  as  sure  as  we  live 
the  world  will  acknowledge  it  some  time  or  other. 

TRIBUTE  TO  THE  CHOIR 

I  received  a  letter  the  other  day,  and  while  I  have  listened  to  the 
choir  and  know  what  a  wonderful  agency  it  has  been  to  allay  the  preju- 
dices of  the  people  against  the  Church,  I  would  like  to  read  this  letter  to 
you.  It  is  from  370  Seventh  Avenue,  New  York,  and  dated  August 
26th,  1934: 

For  more  than  a  year  I  have  promised  myself  that  I  would  do  what  I  am 
now  doing,  to  express  to  you  as  one  of  the  heads  of  the  Mormon  Church  our 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


69 


appreciation  for  the  wonderful  contribution  you  folks  are  making  in  your  Sunday 
presentation  of  the  Mormon  choir. 

Vacationing  down  along  the  coast  during  August,  eight  of  us,  including  our 
organist  and  director,  piled  into  one  car  to  listen  to  your  choir.  The  owner  of 
that  car  took  out  an  old  radio  set  and  put  in  a  new  one  because  he  was  warned  in 
advance  that  nothing  was  to  interfere  on  Sundays  at  twelve  with  listening  to  the 
Mormon  Choir. 

I  wonder  if  the  members  of  your  Choir  realize  the  sheer,  unalloyed  joy  their 
music  is  bringing  to  so  many  people !  I  wonder  if  Richard  Evans  realizes  how 
gracious  and  fitting  are  his  announcements  and  how  truly,  coupled  with  the  music, 
they  do  bring  peace  through  the  week !  I  wonder  if  Frank  Asper  realizes  that, 
not  deprecating  the  work  of  a  guest  organist,  we  would  rather  hear  him  play.  I 
wonder  if  those  who  pay  the  bills  realize  the  great  gift  they  are  making. 

This  letter  is  not  from  a  gusher  or  a  publicity  seeker.  We  have  tasted  the 
emptiness  of  the  gusher's  words.  We  don't  need  any  publicity.  But  when  the 
Mormon  Choir  can  make  such  heathens  of  Methodist  singers,  who  love  to  sing, 
that  they  stay  home  to  listen,  what  truer  tribute  could  there  be? 

Can't  someone  send  us  a  copy  of  your  Choir's  theme  song,  just  one  copy, 
words  and  music?  And  might  we  use  it  in  our  opening  service?  If  so,  we  will  be 
singing  with  you.  I  do  not  mean  for  regular  use  or  for  broadcasting  but  just 
occasionally  when  we  must  miss  your  choir.  I  hope  you  can  read  this  scribbling, 
but  if  left  until  tomorrow  to  be  typed  in  the  office  it  will  be  passed  by  as  it  has 
been  for  a  year  and  this  "thank  you"  has  waited  long  enough. 

What  nicer  tribute  could  any  man  pay  to  our  choir  than  this  ? 

WORDS  OF  ORSON  HYDE 

I  believe  in  revelation  as  every  Latter-day  Saint  must.  I  picked 
up  an  old  History  of  the  Church  the  other  day  and  I  found  these  words, 
which  I  endorse  with  all  my  heart.  They  are  from  an  address  made  on 
April  6th,  1840,  at  Nauvoo,  by  Orson  Hyde,  one  of  the  great  men  of 
this  Church,  one  of  the  pillars  of  the  Church  in  its  early  days,  one  who 
traveled  in  Europe,  in  parts  of  the  great  countries  of  Europe,  early  in  the 
forties.    I  read  this  from  his  journal : 

On  Sunday  morning,  October  24,  1841,  a  good  while  before  day,  I  arose  from 
sleep  and  went  out  of  the  city  (Jerusalem)  as  socn  as  the  gates  were  opened, 
crossed  the  brook  Kedron  and  went  upon  the  Mount  of  Olives  and  there  in  solemn 
silence,  with  pen  and  ink  and  paper,  just  as  I  saw  in  the  vision,  offered  up  the 
following  prayer  to  Him  who  lives  forever  and  ever. 

LAND  OF  PALESTINE  BLESSED 

I  quote  one  or  two  paragraphs  only  from  that  lengthy  prayer: 

Grant,  therefore,  O  Lord,  in  the  name  of  thy  well  beloved  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
to  remove  the  barrenness  and  sterility  of  this  land,  and  let  springs  of  living  water 
break  forth  to  water  its  thirsty  soil.  Let  the  vine  and  olive  produce  in  theic 
strength,  and  the  fig  tree  bloom  and  flourish.  Let  the  land  become  abundantly 
fruitful  when  possessed  by  its  rightful  heirs ;  let  it  again  flow  with  plenty  to  feed 
the  returning  prodigals  who  come  home  with  a  spirit  of  grace  and  supplication; 
upon  it  let  the  clouds  distil  virtue  and  richness,  and  let  the  fields  smile  with  plenty. 
Let  the  flocks  and  the  herds  greatly  increase  and  multiply  upon  the  mountains  and 
the  hills ;  and  let  Thy  great  kindness  conquer  and  subdue  the  unbelief  of  Thy  people. 
Do  thou  take  from  them  their  stony  heart,  and  give  them  a  heart  of  flesh ;  and  may 
the  sun  of  Thy  favor  dispel  the  cold  mists  of  darkness  which  have  beclouded  their 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


atmosphere.  Incline  them  to  gather  in  upon  this  land  according  to  Thy  word.  Let 
them  come  like  clouds  and  like  doves  to  their  windows.  Let  the  large  ships  of 
the  nations  bring  them  from  the  distant  isles ;  and  let  kings  become  their  nursing 
fathers,  and  queens  with  motherly  fondness  wipe  the  tears  of  sorrow  from  their 

Let  the  nation  or  that  people,  who  shall  take  an  active  part  in  behalf  of  Abra- 
ham's children,  and  in  the  rising  up  of  Jerusalem,  find  favor  in  Thy  sight.  Let 
not  their  enemies  prevail  against  them,  neither  let  pestilence  nor  famine  overcome 
them,  but  let  the  glory  of  Israel  overshadow  them,  and  the  power  of  the  Highest 
protect  them ;  while  that  nation  or  kingdom  that  will  not  serve  Thee  in  this 
glorious  work  must  perish,  according  to  Thy  word — "Yea,  those  nations  shall  be 
utterly  wasted." 

He  then  states : 

It  was  by  political  power  and  influence  that  the  Jewish  nation  was  broken 
down,  and  her  subjects  dispersed  abroad.  And  I  will  here  hazard  the  opinion  that 
by  political  power  and  influence  they  will  be  gathered  and  built  up ;  and  further, 
that  England  is  destined,  in  the  wisdom  and  economy  of  heaven,  to  stretch  forth 
the  arm  of  political  power,  and  advance  in  the  front  ranks  of  this  glorious 
enterprise. 

PROPHECY  FULFILLED 

Now  let  us  see  if  that  has  been  fulfilled.  On  November  5th,  1914, 
England  declared  war  against  Turkey.  General  Allenby,  in  command  of 
an  army  of  English  soldiers,  began  his  triumphant  march  to  recover  the 
Holy  Land,  driving  the  Turks  before  him  and  destroying  their  power  of 
conquest  and  possession  forever.  He  captured  Gaza  on  November  7, 
1917;  Jerusalem,  December  9,  1917;  Nazareth,  September  22,  1918; 
Damascus,  October  1,  1918;  and  proceeded  to  Aleppo  October  26,  thus 
sweeping  Palestine  from  Beersheba  to  Dan.  This  campaign  was  mar- 
velous in  many  ways.  It  was  led  by  an  Englishman  who  is  reported  to 
be  a  man  of  faith  and  prayer.  The  favor  of  the  Lord  was  made  manifest 
in  the  comparative  ease  with  which  it  was  accomplished  and  in  the  few 
casualties  of  the  English.  The  Turks  were  completely  defeated  and  the 
surrender  of  the  Turkish  Empire  followed  October  30th,  1918. 

INSPIRED  UTTERANCES 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  last  few  months  I  have  been  read- 
ing the  old  prophecies  as  recorded  in  our  Millennial  Star,  and  it  seems 
to  me  that  no  human  being  could  read  them  and  know  the  history  and 
look  at  it  as  it  is  today  without  acknowledging  that  those  men  were  in- 
spired of  the  living  God,  and  spoke  as  they  were  inspired  to  speak  by  a 
higher  power  than  man. 

I  wanted  to  call  attention  to  that,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  I  think 
sometimes  we  who  are  living  in  this  material  world  are  so  busy  working 
hours  and  hours  into  the  night— and  I  was  going  to  say  that  ninety-five 
per  cent  of  us  have  but  one  goal  in  view,  and  that  is  gathering  to  our- 
selves the  things  of  this  world.  Most  of  these  ninety-five  per  cent  think 
of  God  but  a  few  hours  perhaps  once  a  week. 

WORK  OF  GOD 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  I  know  that 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


71 


this  is  the  work  of  God.  I  know  that  all  that  has  been  promised  will  be 
given  if  we  but  fulfil  the  requirements  made  by  the  Father.  May 
God's  blessings  ever  attend  you  in  your  every-day  life.  May  his  choicest 
blessings  be  upon  the  brethren  who  have  been  appointed  to  responsible 
positions  in  the  Church  this  day.  I  know  them,  I  know  that  our  Heavenly 
Father  knows  them.  I  know  they  are  worthy,  and  I  am  sure  that  God 
will  be  with  them,  and  they  shall  have  influence  wherever  they  go,  not 
only  among  our  own  people,  but  among  the  peoples  of  the  world  with 
whom  they  come  in  contact. 

PRAYS  FOR  PRESIDENT  GRANT 

Father  in  heaven,  bless  President  Grant.  Thou  knowest  his  labors 
and  his  devotion  to  thy  cause.  May  he  be  beloved  by  all  men  for  his  great- 
ness and  his  goodness  and  his  love  for  thy  cause,  and  may  I  ask  the  same 
prayer,  the  same  blessing  upon  every  man  who  is  serving  God  in  any 
way.  May  his  Church  grow  and  increase.  No  matter  how  soon  the  day 
comes  when  the  world  shall  end  may  we  all  be  prepared  for  the  salvation 
of  the  children  of  men,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

We  have  sung  this  afternoon  that  beautiful  hymn,  "Prayer  is 
the  Soul's  Sincere  Desire."  With  the  Latter-day  Saints,  prayer  is 
a  sacred  form  of  worship.  We  are  all  taught  to  observe  prayers — 
in  secret,  prayers  in  the  family,  prayers  in  our  public  worship.  The 
prayer  of  an  honest,  faithful  man  availeth  much  with  the  Lord. 
Prayers  of  many  faithful  men  and  women,  centered  upon  the  same 
object  and  purpose,  must  avail  much  more -with  the  Lord. 

INSPIRED  APPOINTMENTS 

I  have  prayed  earnestly  that  the  President  of  the  Church  would 
be  inspired  of  the  Lord  in  the  selection  of  men  to  fill  the  vacancies 
in  the  councils  of  the  General  Authorities.  No  doubt  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  have  prayed  just  as  earnestly.  Our  prayers  have 
been  answered  and  our  souls  are  made  to  rejoice  in  the  selections 
that  have  been  made.  With  all  my  heart  I  sustain  each  one  of  these 
brethren,  and  thank  the  Lord  for  them,  as  I  sustain  and  thank  the 
Lord  for  those  who  were  already  members  of  these  councils,  all  of 
whom  I  know  to  be  men  of  God,  who  are  devoted  to  the  work  of 
the  Lord,  and  who  are  willing  to  do  anything  that  they  may  be 
called  upon  to  do,  always  acknowledging  those  in  authority  who 
may  make  these  appointments  from  time  to  time  as  being  the  Lord's 
representatives,  they  having  authority  to  speak  and  act  for  the  Lord. 

In  responding  to  such  calls  to  the  ministry  we  answer  the  call 
of  the  Lord  to  engage  in  his  work,  and  when  thus  engaged  we  are 
performing  the  greatest  service  that  it  is  possible  for  a  person  to 
give  to  God  and  to  his  fellow  men. 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THANKFUL  FOR  RESTORED  HEALTH 

I  rejoice  in  being  here  today.  Six  months  ago  I  had  a  lameness, 
an  illness,  which  prevented  my  attending  the  General  Conference. 
The  prayers  of  the  Saints  have  been  offered  in  my  behalf;  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  have  come  to  me  and  effected  my  recovery  so  that 
I  am  able  now  to  carry  on  my  work.  I  praise  and  thank  the  Lord, 
and  thank  the  Saints  for  their  faith  and  prayers  in  my  behalf. 

Believing  that  I  have  your  confidence,  your  love  and  faith,  I 
desire  to  say  something  pertaining  to  this  Gospel  that  we  have  re- 
ceived, which  is  of  more  worth  than  anything  or  everything  else 
with  which  we  have  to  do. 

THE  GOSPEL  WHAT  IT  IS 

We  read  in  the  Scriptures  a  definition  of  the  Gospel  given  by 
the  Apostle  Paul  to  the  Romans  wherein  he  says:  "I  am  not 
ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ :  for  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation."  To  enlarge  a  little  upon  that  definition,  we  might  say 
that  the  Gospel  is  the  plan  of  the  Gods  in  the  councils  of  heaven 
before  the  world  was,  for  the  existence  of  this  earth  upon  which  we 
live  and  of  man  upon  the  earth,  for  the  fall  of  man,  for  the  redemp- 
tion of  man,  and  his  exaltation  through  the  atoning  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  obedience  unto  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel, 
and  for  the  glorification  of  the  earth.  This  plan  involves  also  the 
acceptance  of  certain  principles,  the  receiving  of  certain  ordinances, 
the  keeping  of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  obeying  his  laws, 
rendering  service  to  the  Church,  service  to  the  Lord,  service  to  fel- 
low men,  public  service  and  private  service,  financial  aid  and  spirit- 
ual blessing,  and  whatever  else  can  be  done  for  the  blessing  of  man- 
kind. 

MUST  BE  TAUGHT  THE  LAW 

The  Gospel  requires  the  keeping  of  oneself  free  and  unspotted 
from  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  the  living  of  a  God-like  and  Christ- 
like life.  It  is  the  law  by  which  all  mankind  are  to  be  judged,  and 
by  which  they  are  to  be  condemned  or  justified,  according  to  merit. 
The  scriptures  tell  us  that  until  the  law,  sin  was  in  the  world,  but 
sin  is  not  imputed  where  there  is  no  law. 

VVe  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  also  that  where  there  is  no 
law  given  there  is  no  condemnation.  Therefore,  in  justice,  the  law 
of  the  Gospel  must  be  taught  unto  all  men.  No  man  can  be  judged 
by  that  law  until  it  is  taught  to  him  and  to  his  understanding. 

There  are  but  few  people,  comparatively,  who  have  had  the  Gos- 
pel in  its  fulness  and  simplicity  taught  to  them  so  that  they  could 
conscientiously  receive  it, — very  few  of  the  teeming  millions  of  our 
Father's  children  who  have  lived  upon  this  earth  down  to  the  pres- 
ent time. 

MUST  BE  BORN  AGAIN 

What  is  going  to  become  of  those  who  have  not  subscribed  to 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


73 


these  conditions?  The  Savior  said  to  Nicodemus,  a  ruler  of  the 
Jews :  "Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom 
of  God."  Also  he  said:  "Except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of 
the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God.''  The  ex- 
pression, "being  born  again,"  Nicodemus  could  not  understand. 
There  are  many  people  today  who  do  not  understand  this  "birth,'' 
but  we  have  an  explanation  in  the  vision  of  Moses  contained  in  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  which  makes  plain  the  meaning  of  this  Scrip- 
ture. For  the  benefit  of  those  who  have  not  understood  it  let  me 
read  a  few  paragraphs : 

Therefore  I  give  unto  you  a  commandment,  to  teach  these  things  freely  unto 
your  children  saying :  ' 

That  by  reason  of  transgression  cometh  the  fall,  which  fall  bringeth  death,  and 
inasmuch  as  ye  were  born  into  the  world  by  water,  and  blood,  and  the  spirit,  which 
I  have  made,  and  so  became  of  dust  a  living  soul,  even  so  ye  must  be  born  again 
into  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  of  water,  and  of  the  Spirit,  and  be  cleansed  by  blood 
even  the  blood  of;  mine  Only  Begotten;  that  ye  might  be  sanctified  from  all  sin, 
and  enjoy  the  words  of  eternal  life  in  this  world,  and  eternal  life  in  the  world 
to  come,  even  immortal  glory; 

For  by  the  water  ye  keep  the  commandment ;  by  the  Spirit  ye  are  justified,  and 
by  the  blood  ye  are  sanctified. 

THE  ONLY  TRUE  MODE  OF  BAPTISM 

Does  "being  born  again"  mean  a  sprinkling  of  water?  Hardly 
Let  me  read  further  from  the  Book  of  Moses : 

And  it  came  to  pass,  when  the  Lord  had  spoken  with  Adam,  our  father,  that 
Adam  cried  unto  the  Lord,  and  he  was  caught  away  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
and  was  carried  down  into  the  water,  and  was  laid  under  the  water,  and  was 
brought  forth  out  of  the  water. 

And  thus  he  was  baptized,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  descended  upon  him,  and 
thus  he  was  born  of  the  Spirit,  and  became  quickened  in  the  inner  man. 

And  he  heard  a  voice  out  of  heaven,  saying :  Thou  art  baptized  with  fire,  and 
with  the  Holy  Ghost.  This  is  the  record  of  the  Father,  and  the  Son,  from  hence- 
forth and  forever. 

Herein  is  described  the  mode  of  baptism  originating  with  Adam, 
the  first  man.  God  has  never  authorized  any  other  kind  of  baptism 
by  water.  And  baptism  by  water  is  not  complete  until  the  individ- 
ual has  been  baptized  by  fire,  or  the  Holy  Ghost,  or,  in  other  words, 
has  had  hands  laid  upon  his  head  for  confirmation  to  membership 
in  the  Church  of  Christ  and  the  bestowal  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  as  was 
the  order  of  things  in  the  Primitive  Church. 

BY  ONE  HAVING  AUTHORITY 

I  shall  read  from  the  20th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, verses  73-74: 

The  person  who  is  called  of  God  and  has  authority  from  Jesus  Christ  to  baptize 
shall  go  down  into  the  water  with  the  person  who  has  presented  himself  or 
herself  for  baptism  and  shall  say,  calling  him  or  her  by  name :  Having  been 
commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  baptize  you  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the 
Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Amen. 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Then  shall  he  immerse  him  or  her  in  the  water,  and  come  forth  again  out  of 
the  water. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  observe  that  the  person  baptizing  must 
be  "called  of  God"  and  have  "authority  from  Jesus  Christ"  to  per- 
form this  sacred  ordinance;  for  no  other  authorization  is  accepted 
of  God.  Note  also  that  the  officiator  and  the  applicant  for  baptism 
are  to  "go  down  into  the  water,"  which,  obviously,  does  not  con- 
template or  justify  baptizing  in  a  bath  tub,  with  the  baptizer  stand- 
ing outside  of  the  tub. 

There  is  no  justification  in  any  of  the  scriptures,  ancient  or 
modern,  for  any  other  mode  of  baptism ;  and  the  ordinance  must  be 
administered  by  one  having  authority. 

CONDITIONS  PRESCRIBED 

In  the  20th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we  have  the 
direct  word  of  the  Lord  in  regard  to  this  principle  of  baptism,  verse 
71: 

No  one  can  be  received  into  the  Church  of  Christ  unless  he  has  arrived  unto 
the  years  of  accountability  before  God,  and  is  capable  of  repentance. 

This  means  that  baptism  is  not  necessary  for  little  children  who 
are  not  capable  of  repenting.  The  Lord  has  informed  us  by  rev- 
elation that  the  normal  child  eight  years  of  age  is  to  be  regarded  as 
being  accountable,  and  therefore  should  be  baptized. 

The  Lord  has  said  concerning  the  qualifications  necessary  to 
receive  this  ordinance,  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  20,  verse 
37: 

All  those  who  humble  themselves  before  God,  and  desire  to  be  baptized,  and 
come  forth  with  broken  hearts  and  contrite  spirits,  and  witness  before  the  Church 
that  they  have  truly  repented  of  all  their  sins,  and  are  willing  to  take  upon  them  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  having  a  determination  to  serve  him  to  the  end,  and  truly 
manifest  by  their  works  that  they  have  received  of  the  Spirit  of  Christ  unto  the 
remission  of  their  sins,  shall  be  received  by  baptism  into  his  church. 

Mankind  everywhere  must  subscribe  to  these  conditions.  There 
are  no  other  conditions  prescribed  by  the  Lord  by  which  we  may 
obtain  entrance  into  his  kingdom  and  obtain  salvation.  These  re- 
quirements are  very  plain,  simple,  and  easy  to  be  understood. 

What  we  may  read  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  in  all  of 
the  other  standard  Church  works  regarding  these  principles  and  or- 
dinances is  a  confirmation  and  a  making  plain  of  the  statements 
which  are  set  forth  in  the  King  James  translation  of  the  Bible — the 
Old  and  the  New  Testaments. 

"judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh" 

Now  what  are  we  going  to  do  with  these  teeming  millions  who 
have  not  entered  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  by  receiving  this 
sacred  ordinance  and  other  sacred  ordinances  which  are  just  as 
necessary  for  man's  exaltation  as  are  baptism  and  confirmation,  and 
which  men  and  women  must  receive  ?   Those  who  have  not  had  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


75 


privilege  of  hearing  the  Gospel  in  this  life  will  have  the  privilege  of 
hearing  it  hereafter.  Otherwise  they  could  not  be  judged  by  the 
Gospel  law.    Hence  we  read  in  the  scriptures : 

For  for  this  cause  was  the  gospel  preached  also  to  them  that  are  dead,  that 
they  might  be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  according  to  God 
in  the  spirit. 

Peter  says : 

For  Christ  also  hath  once  suffered  for  sins,  the  just  for  the  unjust,  that  he 
might  bring  us  to  God,  being  put  to  death  in  the  flesh,  but  quickened  by  the  spirit : 
By  which  also  he  went  and  preached  unto  the  spirits  in  prison. 

A  VICARIOUS  WORK 

So  that  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  to  the  spirits  in  the  spirit 
world  is  not  a  new  doctrine ;  it  is  a  Bible  doctrine.  But  what  are 
they  going  to  do  when  the  Gospel  is  preached  unto  them  and  they 
become  converted,  if  baptism  is  necessary  and  they  have  not  been 
baptized?  The  Lord  has  made  this  provision,  that  a  vicarious  work 
may  .be  done  for  them ;  and  he  has  laid  the  responsibility  directly 
upon  the  members  of  this  Church,  who  have  received  these  sacred 
ordinances,  to  officiate  for  their  kindred  dead. 

We  have  no  right  to  go  into  other  people's  lines  to  do  temple 
work  without  permission  from  them.  We  may  receive  or  give 
assistance  in  temple  work,  either  gratuitous  or  paid-for  service. 
President  Wilford  Woodruff  received  gratuitous  assistance  from  a 
number  of  the  Saints  in  doing  his  temple  work  in  the  St.  George 
Temple.  President  Heber  J.  Grant  has  set  the  Church  a  wonder- 
ful example  in  this  respect,  both  by  going  to  the  Temple  himself 
and  by  taking  his  family  with  him  to  do  ordinance  work,  and  also 
by  employing  additional  help  in  order  to  discharge  the  sacred  duty 
resting  upon  him  pertaining  to  his  kindred. 

SAVING  OUR  DEAD 

The  Lord  has  said,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  no 
greater  responsibility  has  he  placed  upon  us  than  that  we  look  after 
our  kindred  dead. 

There  are  many  faithful  Saints  who  are  out  of  employment. 
Why  not  spend  some  of  our  means  in  paying  them  to  assist  us  in 
doing  our  temple  work,  and  by  so  doing  be  a  blessing  to  both  the 
living  and  the  dead? 

I  desire  here  to  make  an  appeal  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  not 
to  overlook  this  responsibility.  We  should  awaken,  go  forth,  and 
do  our  duty.  God  expects  it  of  us.  Saving  the  dead  is  just  as  im- 
portant as  preaching  the  Gospel  abroad  and  bringing  the  living  into 
the  fold. 

In  the  temple  we  are  prepared  to  take  care  of  the  Saints,  who 
may  come  at  almost  any  hour  of  the  day, — from  early  morning  until 
late  at  night,  as  they  have  a  few  hours  to  spare,  and  surely  their 
work  outside  of  the  temple  ought  not  to  take  all  of  their  time. 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Come  to  the  temple;  redeem  your  dead;  and  be  blessed. 
May  God  help  you  and  me  to  this  end  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

At  the  request  of  President  Grant  the  congregation  arose  and  sang 
the  hymn,  "O  say,  what  is  truth  ?" 

ELDER  HOLGER  M.  LARSEN 

Former  President  of  the  Danish  Mission 

I  appreciate,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  opportunity  of  re- 
porting conditions  in  the  far-oft'  land  of  Denmark.  It  has  been  my 
good  fortune,  for  the  past  five  years,  to  labor  as  a  missionary  in 
the  Danish  Mission,  and  to  endeavor  to  preach  the  Gospel  unto  that 
people.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  the  condition  of  the  Danish  Mission 
at  the  present  time  is  very  good. 

We  may  not  have  made  very  many  converts  during  the  past 
few  years,  but  we  have  tried  to  teach  the  people  how  to  take  care 
of  themselves.  The  call  came  to  us  through  President  John  A. 
Widtsoe,  of  the  General  Authorities,  at  the  time  that  I  arrived  in 
the  field,  to  try  to  install  local  branch  presidencies,  to  try  to  give 
all  the  responsibility  we  possibly  could  to  the  local  brethren  and 
sisters.  We  have  tried  to  do  that  and  the  result  has  been  most  won- 
derful. 

The  people  of  the  Danish  Mission  have  commenced  to  feel  a 
greater  interest  in  the  Church,  they  have  commenced  to  feel  that 
they  really  belong  to  the  Church ;  they  feel  that  there  is  something 
for  them  to  do.  Many  of  the  missions  had  almost  got  into  the  same 
condition  as  is  existing  in  the  other  churches — we  had  ministers  to 
do  almost  everything  for  us.  But  when  the  local  brethren  and  sis- 
ters learned  that  it  was  necessary  for  them  to  do  something  for 
themselves,  they  really  appreciated  their  membership  in  the  Church. 

Through  the  generosity  of  the  brethren  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties at  home  we  have  been  able  to  erect  in  the  city  of  Copenhagen 
one  of  the  finest  chapels  the  Church  has  anywhere  in  Europe.  It 
has  been  a  great  asset  to  the  Church,  inasmuch  as  we  now  have  a 
beautiful  building  in  which  to  meet. 

I  want  to  tell  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  have  appre- 
ciated the  missionaries  that  have  come  into  the  mission  field  from 
time  to  time.  We  have  appreciated  the  brethren  who  have  been 
sent  to  us,  and  we  have  tried  to  help  them  in  every  possible  way. 
There  is  no  better  work,  there  is  no  work  that  will  give  a  person 
more  joy  and  more  satisfaction  than  that  of  trying  to  bring  souls 
unto  God. 

The  missionary  life  is  the  life  that  is  giving  joy  and  satisfac- 
tion to  the  membership  of  the  Church.  One  of  the  stake  presidents 
whom  I  met  this  morning  told  me  that  his  stake  had  more  mis- 
sionaries in  the  field  than  any  other  stake  in  the  Church.  I  told 


ELDER  HOLGER  M.  LARSEN 


77 


him  I  could  see  that  that  would  be  an  asset  to  his  stake.  When  we 
receive  the  good  reports  from  the  missionaries,  when  we  receive 
their  letters  full  of  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel,  full  of  the  missionary 
spirit,  we  cannot  help  but  try  to  live  better  lives. 

Although  the  Danish  Mission  is  perhaps  one  of  the  smallest 
among  the  European  group,  we  were  the  first  mission  in  the  Euro- 
pean group  to  install  complete  local  boards  for  the  different  auxili- 
ary organizations.  We  are  having  the  same  kind  of  church  in  Den- 
mark at  the  present  time  as  we  have  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  Although 
small  in  numbers,  we  try  to  carry  on  the  same  lessons  and  the  same 
work  that  we  have  at  home.  The  Elders  who  have  been  sent  to 
us  are  splendid  young  men,  and  I  would  like  to  commend  the 
parents  who  have  sent  their  sons  into  the  field;  and  I  would  also  like 
to  say  to  the  fathers,  that  the  crying  need  in  the  European  missions  at  the 
present  time,  and  particularly  some  of  the  missions  where  we  have  been 
accustomed  to  having  middle-aged  men,  is  that  some  of  the  fathers  of 
these  boys  come  into  the  field  and  do  missionary  work. 

Sometimes  I  am  afraid  we  have  grown  into  a  condition  where 
we  are  not  depending  upon  our  Heavenly  Father  as  much  as  we 
used  to  do,  we  have  not  the  faith  we  formerly  had.  We  fear  that 
he  will  not  help  us  and  bless  us  in  doing  missionary  service.  We 
would  rather  send  our  boys  into  the  mission  field.  In  many  places 
some  of  the  older  brethren  could  do  much  more  good. 

We  are  not  complaining;  we  are  grateful,  and  we  are  thankful 
for  the  young  boys,  but  it  would  be  a  great  help  to  the  mission 
presidents  to  have  some  brethren  a  little  older  who  could  help 
steady  these  boys  along. 

I  want  to  testify  to  you  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel,  and 
I  want  to  tell  you  that  the  Lord  has  been  merciful  and  has  blessed 
us  during  the  past  five  years  in  the  missionary  work  in  the  Danish 
Mission.  We  are  grateful  for  the  degree  of  success  that  we  have 
had,  and  we  are  willing  to  give  the  honor  and  the  glory  unto  our 
Heavenly  Father.  It  has  been  through  his  Spirit  and  through  the 
united  efforts  of  the  missionaries  who  have  labored  in  that  field 
that  we  have  been  able  to  do  anything  to  further  this  work. 

I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  I  know  the  Gospel  is  true  ;  had 
it  not  been  for  that  testimony,  I  do  not  believe  that  anything  could 
have  persuaded  me  to  go  back  to  my  native  land  and  try  to  induce 
people  to  join  the  Mormon  faith. 

I  am  grateful  for  this  testimony.  I  am  grateful  more  than 
words  can  express  for  my  membership  in  this  Church.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  association  I  have  had  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
It  is  a  pleasure  to  come  back  home  and  to  attend  the  conference 
sessions.  That  is  one  thing  that  we  very  much  miss  when  we  are 
in  the  mission  field.  We  can  read  the  report  of  the  conference,  we 
can  read  of  the  talks  that  have  been  given,  but  it  is  not  like  asso- 
ciating with  you  brethren  and  sisters. 

I  ask  the  Lord  to  bless  the  Presidency  of  this  Church  and 
every  member  of  the  Church.  I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  I  know 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  our  leaders  are  men  of  God,  I  know  that  they  are  working 
day  and  night  in  order  to  fulfil  and  magnify  the  calling  which  has 
been  placed  upon  them.  The  Lord  bless  us  all,  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING  .... 
Former  President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  grateful,  my  brethen  and  sisters,  for  the  opportunity  of 
again  joining  in  testimony  that  this  is  verily  the  Church  and  King- 
dom of  God,  and  of  making  final  report  of  my  labors  in  the  North 
Central  States  Mission,  over  which  I  have  had  the  honor  to  preside 
during  the  last  five  years. 

I  rejoice  that  I  have  membership  in  what  I  believe  to  be  the 
most  perfect  instrument  for  individual  development,  mutual  im- 
provement, social  service  and  moral  and  spiritual  welfare  upon 
the  earth  today — The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints— 
whose  maker  and  builder  is  God. 

I  join  and  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  the  mission  field  offers 
one  of  the  richest  of  these  opportunities  for  development.  Mission- 
aries soon  learn  to  rely  upon  the  truth  announced  by  Nephi  that 
the  Lord  requires  nothing  of  his  servants  but  that  he  provides  the 
means  by  which  that  which  is  required  may  be  accomplished ;  also 
the  truth  of  the  Savior's  assurance  that  he  that  seeketh  his  life 
shall  lose  it ;  but  he  that  will  lose  his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it." 
And  so,  realizing  his  dependence  upon  the  Lord  and  his  partnership 
with  him  in  a  great  cause,  he  serves  unselfishly  and  well  himself 
and  fellow  men. 

The  first  time  I  was  called  to  make  this  report  five  years  ago 
it  was  near  the  end  of  the  final  session  of  the  conference.  As  I! 
waited  a  moment  for  my  turn,  that  peerless  leader  and  teacher, 
since  gone  to  his  reward,  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage,  said  impressively 
to  me:  "You  used  to  be  a  student  of  mine.  Don't  waste  any  time 
explaining  that  the  time  is  short." 

I  have  greatly  appreciated  that  lesson  and  the  spirit  in  which 
it  was  offered.  The  time  is  short,  here,  in  the  mission  field,  every- 
where. My  five  years  in  the  field  were  all  too  brief,  and  I  am  glad 
now  that  I  did  not  wait  until  the  end  to  appreciate  that  fact.  Travel- 
ing approximately  forty  to  fifty  thousand  miles  a  year,  over  an 
area  a  thousand  miles  square,  and  holding  not  quite  an  average  of 
one  public  meeting  a  day,  but  more  than  one  every  other  day.  I 
enjoyed  every  minute  of  it.  The  other  missionaries  were  equally 
busy  and  happy  in  their  work,  and  the  Lord  blessed  our  efforts ;  and 
he  blessed  the  people  that  they  bore  with  patience  our  imperfec- 
tions, and  we  were  all  happy  in  service.  But  that  is  over ;  and  we 
return,  "with  glad  heart  and  cheerful  countenance,"  to  the  work 
awaiting  us  here,  for  which  also  I  am  grateful. 

I  rejoice  in  the  appointment  of  my  successor,  President  Wil- 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 


79 


ford  W.  Richards,  who  now  presides  in  the  North  Central  States 
Mission.  Already  the  people  love  him ;  and  I  bespeak  for  him  and 
them  the  further  favor  and  blessing  of  the  Lord  in  rich  abundance. 

I  am  glad  to  find  myself  in  complete  harmony  with  the  Spirit 
of  divine  guidance  which  is  manifest  in  the  selection  of  brethren 
to  fill  important  vacancies  at  this  conference,  Presidents  Clark  and 
McKay,  and  Elders  Hinckley  and  Hardy.  I  have  always  wor- 
shipped from  afar  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church ;  and  the  better 
I  get  acquainted  with  them  the  more  I  love  them.  I  know  and  bear 
record  they  are  men  of  God. 

A  final  word  of  testimony  I  wish  might  reach  the  youth  of 
Zion^ everywhere:  I  believe  in  God  as  our  Father  and  in  mankind 
as  his  children ;  in  the  ultimate  triumph  of  truth  and  righteous- 
ness ;  and  in  prayer  as  a  source  of  spiritual  strength.  I  like  a  story 
one  of  the  brethren  tells  about  prayer : 

A  little  boy  was  going  to  bed  without  saying  his  prayers. 
"Haven't  you  forgotten  something?"  inquired  his  father. 

"No  father,  I  haven't,"  said  the  boy. 

"Aren't  you  going  to  say  your  prayers?" 

"No.  I've  quit." 

"Quit?" 

"Yes,  I've  quit.  You  know  father,  you  used  to  tell  me,  and 
mother  did  too,  that  if  I  would  ask  God  for  things  I  needed  badly, 
he  would  answer  my  prayers  and  grant  my  requests ;  but  when 
mother  was  sick  and  I  prayed  that  she  might  get  well,  God  didn't 
hear  nor  answer  our  prayers,  but  took  her  away  instead ;  and  so 
I  don't  see  the  use  of  praying  any  more,  and  I've  quit." 

How  would  you  have  answered  that  little  boy? 

Do  we  remember  that  one  sad  night  the  Son  of  God  himself 
knelt  in  the  garden  of  Gethsemane  and  prayed :  "Father,  if  it  be 
possible,  let  this  cup  pass."  Was  he  answered?  Did  the  cup  of 
which  he  prayed  pass?  We  know  it  did  not.  On  the  contrary,  Son 
of  God  though  he  was,  he  drank  and  saved  a  world. 

But  there  was  another  part  to  the  prayer  he  prayed  in  Geth- 
semane: "Nevertheless  not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done."  Possibly 
the  little  boy  did  not  know  or  had  forgotten  that  part  of  the 
Savior's  prayer,  as  likewise  have  too  many  of  our  Father's  children, 
who,  like  the  little  boy,  have  "quit." 

The  greatest  need  of  the  world  today,  I  believe,  is  a  dispo- 
sition to  concur  in  that  second  half  of  the  Master's  prayer:  "Thy 
will,  O  God,  not  mine,  be  done." 

To  which  humble  report  and  testimony  may  the  Lord  add  his 
blessings,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 

Former  President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

For  seventeen  successive  conferences  of  the  Church  it  has  been 
my  happy  privilege  to  stand  before  a  congregation  such  as  this  and  give  a 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


report  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission,  over  which  Sister  Sloan  and 
I  had  been  called  to  preside.  We  were  called  to  this  responsibility  on 
the  19th  day  of  October,  1926.  A  few  days  later  we  were  set  apart,  and 
the  latter  part  of  November  I  went  to  the  mission  and  toured  it  with  my 
predecessor,  President  Brigham  S.  Young. 

I  am  happy  to  say,  in  your  presence  that  our  life  has  been  tremend- 
ously happy,  and  if  you  brethren  and  sisters,  in  your  homes,  have  enjoyed 
life  as  much  as  my  companion  and  I  have  done  during  the  past  thirty 
years,  you  have  tasted  a  little  of  the  joys  of  heaven,  I  am  sure.  We  be- 
lieve that  the  heaven  received  in  the  hereafter  will  be  commensurate  with 
what  we  make  it  here,  and  the  first  place  to  establish  those  heavenly  rela- 
tions, I  believe,  is  in  the  home. 

Had  it  not  been  for  the  help  of  the  Lord,  the  faith  and  prayers  of 
my  brethren,  and  the  untiring  support  of  my  good  wife,  my  success  in 
life  would  have  been  greatly  diminished  from  what  it  has  been,  if  there 
has  been  any  success.  Oh,  we  are  not  half  so  appreciative  of  the  blessing 
of  good  companionship  as  we  should  be. 

We  have  enjoyed  the  work  of  the  mission;  we  are  happy  that 
Brother  and  Sister  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  have  been  chosen  to  succeed 
us.  We  have  known  these  good  people  many  years,  they  are  not  going 
to  be  found  wanting  in  their  responsibilities,  I  am  sure.  They  are 
presiding  over  one  of  the  finest  missions  in  the  world,  and  they  are  meet- 
ing a  wonderfully  fine  people.  I  am  sure  that  success  will  crown  their 
noble  efforts. 

I  am  grateful,  above  all,  to  you  good  fathers  and  mothers  who  have 
trusted  your  sons  and  daughters  with  us.  Oh,  what  an  enrichment  has 
come  into  our  lives  in  the  companionship  of  those  noble  young  men  and 
women.  Finer  men  and  women  do  not  live  in  any  part  of  the  world  than 
those  among  whom  we  have  labored  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission, 
and  if  I  might  ask  only  one  favor  of  my  Heavenly  Father  today,  it  would 
be  that  those  young  men  and  young  women  might  be  as  loyal  to  this 
Church  all  the  days  of  their  lives  as  they  were  while  they  labored  with 


us. 


May  God  grant  that  we  too,  Sister  Sloan  and  I,  may  never  find  our- 
selves becoming  soured,  may  never  find  ourselves  disappointed,  may  never 
find  ourselves  in  a  condition  or  position  where  we  have  aught  to  complain 
about  regarding  our  brethren  in  this  Church. 

I  love  the  leadership  of  this  Church.  I  am  in  strict  accord  with 
them.  I  am  happy  to  say  that  we  have  had  almost  five  hundred  young 
men  and  women  labor  with  us  in  the  mission  field.  Tens  of  thousands  of 
copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  have  been  distributed  in  that  mission 
almost  twenty-five  hundred  baptisms  have  been  performed  during  our 
term  of  office ;  and  so  we  have  watched  the  mission  grow  Many  new 
chapels  have  been  erected,  the  people  have  prospered  and  developed  and 
they  are  enjoying  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  today 

I  am  happy,  upon  our  release,  to  cast  my  lot  with  the  people  of  the 
Northwest.  I  am  happy  for  the  favorable  comments  that  have  been  made 
concerning  our  work.    I  was  delighted  a  few  weeks  ago  to  be  invited 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 


81 


into  a  meeting  of  the  leading  business  men  of  Portland,  among  them  a 
former  governor  of  the  state,  the  mayor  of  the  city,  and  other  noted 
men  of  Portland.  I  sat  at  a  luncheon  with  them.  At  the  close  of  the 
luncheon  they  said:  "Mr.  Sloan,  would  you  object  to  giving  us  a  brief 
resume  of  your  life." 

This  I  did,  and  they  said :  "You  are  the  man  we  are  looking  for." 
I  was  offered  then  a  very  fine  position  with  those  gentlemen,  and  I  am 
happy  to  tell  you  that  I  have  accepted  it. 

A  few  days  later  I  was  in  the  presence  of  one  of  these  men,  and 
during  the  course  of  our  conversation  he  said  these  words :  "Mr.  Sloan, 
do  you  know  why  you  were  invited  into  that  meeting  ?  Do  you  know  why 
you  were  given  this  position?" 

I  said,  "I  have  no  idea.  Probably  it  would  be  interesting  to  me  to 
know." 

He  said:  "I  will  tell  you,  then.  Mr.  Sloan,  the  reason  you  were 
given  this  position  was  the  fact  that  you  are  a  Mormon.", 

Oh,  how  my  heart  leaped  with  joy.  "You  are  a  Mormon."  What 
greater  heritage  could  I  ask  for  ? 

God  bless  this  Church,  its  manhood  and  its  womanhood.  As  this 
gentlemen  said  those  words  the  face  of  my  mother  was  pictured  in  my 
mind  and  I  remembered  her  teaching  from  infancy:  "Son,  your  moral 
character  is  worth  more  to  you  than  all  life  itself." 

Standing  before  you  today  I  bear  witness  that  the  teachings  of  my 
mother  and  the  teachings  of  this  Church  have  carried  me  on,  and  now 
to  stand  and  look  honorable,  virtuous  men  and  women  in  the  face,  this  is 
the  heritage  of  this  Church.  Be  not  ashamed  of  it.  Let  us  emulate 
the  teachings  of  this  Church. 

You  brethren  holding  the  Priesthood,  I  commend  to  you  the  reading 
of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  commend  to  you  that  you  ob- 
tain a  knowledge  of  that  book. 

May  we  cherish  this  work  above  all  else  in  the  earth,  for  it  is  not 
the  work  of  man,  it  is  of  God.  He  is  at  the  helm  and  it  shall  never  fail. 
This  is  my  testimony ;  I  leave  it  with  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  HAROLD  W.  PRATT 

President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

My  very  dear  brethren  and  sisters :  Words  cannot  express  the 
humility  and  the  thankfulness  with  which  I  stand  before  you.  I  have 
not  vocabulary  sufficient  to  express  to  you  the  happiness,  the  honor,  and 
the  gratitude  that  Sister  Pratt  and  I  feel  in  having  the  opportunity  of 
representing  you,  in  representing  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter^ 
day  Saints,  in  the  mission  field,  among  the  Mexican  people. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  southern  republic  and  from  the 
thousands  of  Saints  who  have  accepted  the  Gospel  there.  I  should  like 
to  have  time  to  tell  you  of  the  work  we  are  doing.   You  have  been  told 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


this  afternoon  of  the  work  that  has  been  accomplished  in  Europe  in 
organizing  the  branches  there  and  in  placing  the  local  Priesthood  in 
charge. 

That  work  is  being  undertaken  in  the  Mexican  Mission  today.  In 
part  it  has  been  accomplished,  through  necessity,  in  the  central  part 
of  the  republic,  due  to  the  fact  that  our  missionaries  cannot  work  there 
on)  account  of  the  religious  laws.  Those  people  have  responded  wonder- 
fully, and  even  in  our  branches  along  the  border  today  we  are  following 
the  example  of  the  European  missions,  and  find  that  everywhere  the  local 
Priesthood,  our  Mexican  brethren,  are  responding  to  the  call  of  duty, 
and  taking  an  active  part  in  the  management  and  self-government  of 
their  branches. 

As  has  been  expressed  regarding  the  European  Saints,  the  same  is 
true  regarding  the  Mexican  Saints.  They  feel  more  interest  in  the  work, 
they  feel  that  they  are  now  becoming  real  members,  participants  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Much  has  been  said,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  during  this  conference 
in  tribute  and  honor  to  those  who  have  passed  recently  from  our  midst. 
I  should  like  to  take  time  to  express  just  one  more  thought  of  appreciation 
of  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins.  I  knew  him  intimately  when  I  was  a 
lad.  He  and  my  father  at  that  time  were  closely  associated,  and  it  is  thus 
that  I  remember  him  best,  expressed  in  the  thought  that  he  was  a  man  to 
whom  I  could  go,  even  then,  with  any  questions  that  might  arise,  confident 
that  I  would  get  an  answer.  He  was  my  ideal  then  and  has  been  through- 
out my  life.  I  have  watched  him  and  watched  his  career ;  I  have  watched 
the  reports  regarding  him,  and  have  failed  to  find  one  point  in  him  which 
I  might  criticize. 

I  only  wish  that  I  might  emulate  his  example,  and  might  be  as  good 
a  Church-man  as  he.  It  has  been  difficult  to  see  who  could  pick  up  his 
burden,  but  I  feel  that  the  Lord  has  made  the  proper  choice.  I  testify  to 
you  this  afternoon  that  this  is  the  Lord's  work,  and  it  does  not  depend  up- 
on any  one  man.  The  Lord  can  always  supply  a  man  to  pick  up  the  duties 
laid  down  by  any  man  whom  he  sees  fit  to  call  home. 

I  testify  unto  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know  that  God 
lives,  and  that  this  is  his  work.  I  know  that  the  General  Authorities  of 
this  Church  are  called  of  him ;  I  testify  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  God,  and  further,  that  Heber  J.  Grant  is  today  our  prophet  and  seer, 
the  representative  of  God  upon  the  earth. 

We  today  have  held  up  our  hands  sustaining  him  and  sustaining 
those  called  to  assist  him  in  presiding  over  us.  As  for  me  and  mine,  I 
hope  that  we  shall  always  be  able  to  sustain  him  and  those  associated 
with  him  in  very  deed. 

May  the  blessing  of  our  Father  be  poured  out  upon  the  Church 
throughout  the  world.  May  his  blessings  be  poured  out  upon  the  world, 
may  the  serious  times  of  which  we  have  been  told,  and  of  which  we  know, 
pass  by,  and  may  his  directing  hand  guide  the  nations  of  the  earth 
and  the  peoples  of  the  world,  that  his  will  may  be  accomplished,  I  ask  in 
his  name.  Amen. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


83 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  privilege  of  par- 
taking with  you  of  the  spirit  of  this  session,  and  of  the  preceding  sessions 
of  this  conference.  I  am  happy  in  the  selection  of  the  splendid  men  who 
have  been  called  into  these  positions  in  the  Church.  I  support  them  with 
all  my  heart,  just  as  I  support  all  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.  Likewise,  I  sustain  and  have  faith  and  confidence  in  the  stake 
and  ward  authorities  and  the  mission  officers  and  all  of  the  members 
of  the  Church.  I  rejoice  in  the  spirit  of  faith  that  has  been  evidenced 
in  the  sessions  of  the  conference.  I  have  been  greatly  edified,  strength- 
ened and  encouraged.  I  rejoice  in  the  progress  that  the  Church  is  mak- 
ing in  every  direction. 

INCREASE  OF  RESPECT  FOR  THE  CHURCH 

Recently  I  had  occasion  to  visit  throughout  the  East,  and  also  in  the 
West;  and  everywhere  I  have  gone  I  have  found  that  the  Church  is 
growing  in  respect  and  recognition  among  the  people  who  are  not  of  our 
faith.  There  are  many  things  that  are  helping  to  bring  about  this  condi- 
tion. I  am  sure  that  we  have  a  power  in  this  Church  that  we  scarcely 
appreciate  .  That  is  the  power  of  righteousness,  of  dependability,  of  in- 
tegrity. Through  the  coordination,  cooperation  and  united  effort  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  even  greater  progress  and  greater  recognition 
can  be  brought  to  pass,  not  only  in  this  nation,  but  throughout  the  na- 
tions of  the  world.  As  people  of  the  world  come  to  understand  our 
actual  motives  and  efforts,  they  are  bound  to  give  greater  consideration 
to  our  message.  For  the  real  purpose  of  this  work  is  to  promote  the 
welfare  of  mankind  here  and  hereafter — to  bring  them  unto  truth  and 
the  way  of  eternal  life. 

A  BALANCED  BUDGET 

The  Church  is  progressing  financially  as  well  as  spiritually.  I  may 
say  to  you  that  the  Church  has  a  balanced  budget.  The  First  Presi- 
dency, and  those  associated  with  them,  have  made  estimates  of  income  and 
expenditures  for  the  Church  as  a  whole  for  the  year.  For  the  first  six 
months  of  this  year  the  expenditures  have  been  less  than  half  of  the 
budget  set-up.  The  income  of  the  Church  has  increased  this  year, 
the  tithes,  as  well  as  the  number  of  tithepayers,  showing  a  material  in- 
crease, and  this  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  we  have  had  drouth  and  other 
unfavorable  conditions.  Whether  it  is  an  evidence  of  improvement  in 
financial  conditions  or  not,  I  am  not  able  to  say.  But  I  am  grateful  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  appreciating  in  larger  measure  the  divinity 
of  this  principle,  as  well  as  of  other  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  are 
endeavoring  to  live  in  accordance  therewith.  May  I  say  to  you  that  the 
tithes  are  being  expended  entirely  in  accordance  with  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord  as  contained  in  the  119th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants and  with  the  general  Church  policy.  They  are  being  disbursed  with 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


economy  and  with  care  for  those  purposes  that  are  of  great  concern,  not 
only  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  to  the  people  of  the  world,  for  whom 
so  much  is  being  done  because  of  the  responsibility  that  is  upon  us  to 
preach  the  Gospel  and  promote  this  message  with  which  we  are  charged. 

BUILDING  IMPROVEMENTS 

Among  other  things,  the  Church  is  doing  more  this  year  in  the  way 
of  building  improvements  in  the  various  wards  and  in  a  number  of  the 
missions.  I  believe  that  more  commodious  and  more  convenient  build- 
ings are  being  erected  at  less  cost  than  has  been  the  case  almost  ever 
before.  I  hope  to  see  the  time  come,  as  conditions  will  permit,  when 
every  ward  throughout  the  Church,  and  every  branch  in  the  various  mis- 
sions that  warrants  such  a  thing,  shall  have  the  conveniences  of  a  suit- 
able meeting  house  which  will  provide  the  facilities  necessary  to  carry 
out  the  various  activities  of  the  Church,  as  well  as  the  proper  condi- 
tions for  divine  worship. 

CEASE  FAULT  FINDING 

I  was  impressed  when  President  Grant  read  certain  parts  of  a 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  while  referring  to  President 
Ivins  and  his  outstanding  habits  and  characteristics.  He  referred  to  a 
statement  made  in  that  revelation  to  the  effect  that  we  should  cease  to 
find  fault  with  one  another.  That  reminded  me  of  an  axiom 
with  regard  to  fault-finding.  "Nothing  is  easier  than  fault-finding ; 
no  talent,  no  self-denial,  no  character,  no  brains  are  required 
to  set  up  in  the  grumbling  business."  It  is  true  that  all  of  us 
have  weaknesses,  none  of  us  has  reached  perfection,  we  are  all  sub- 
ject to,  criticism,  and  we  are  all  able  to  improve.  If  people  are  fair,  if 
they  are  honest,  and  if  they  have  criticisms  to  make,  they  will  make  them 
to  the  ones  of  whom  they  complain.  They  will  tell  them  either  person- 
ally or  in  writing,  with  their  names  signed  to  that  which  they  write.  If 
they  have  the  courage  and  the  honesty  to  do  that,  then  the  one  who  is 
criticized  has  the  opportunity  either  to  admit  that  their  criticisms  are  right 
and  profit  thereby;  or  prove  to  them  that  their  criticisms  are  wrong, 
in  which  case  it  is  the  critic's  business  to  apologize.  That  is,  I  think,  the 
only  fair  way  to  criticize.  But  to  go  about  fault-finding  and  undermining 
the  character  or  influence  of  those  who  are  engaged  in  constructive 
activities,  is  a  very  unfair  and  cowardly  method. 

EXAMPLES  OF  HONESTY 

Referring  to  the  tributes  that  have  been  paid  to  the  great  men  who 
have  recently  passed  away  in  the  Church,  I  am  impressed  with  the 
fact  that  prominently  among  all  the  qualities  they  possessed  was  their 
unquestioned  honesty  and  integrity.  I  think  it  was  Pope  who  said :  "An 
honest  man  is  the  noblest  work  of  God."  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins 
and  Elders  Charles  H.  Hart  and  Franklin  S.  Richards  were  men  of 
strict  honesty.    The  statement  made  by  the  president  of  that  great 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


85 


life  insurance  company  to  President  Grant,  when  he  was  selected  a 
member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  that  because  he  recognized  him  to 
be  fundamentally  honest  he  changed  his  opinion  regarding  the  other 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  was  impressive.  I  know  of  no  man 
who  is  fundamentally  more  honest,  whose  honesty  is  less  questioned, 
than  that  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  That  has  been  true  of  all  the 
leaders  of  this  Church  from  the  beginning.  They  have  set  outstanding 
examples  of  trustworthiness. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  HONESTY 

Reference  has  already  been  made  to  the  last  Article  of  our  Faith, 
that  refers  largely  to  the  cardinal  virtues,  which  are  just  as  much  a  part 
of  the  Gospel  and  a  part  of  our  lives,  as  any  principle.  "We  believe 
in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing  good 
to  all  men,"  and  so  forth.  This  tenet  expresses  the  importance  of  prac- 
ticing these  fundamental  virtues.  Honesty  lies  at  the  very  foundation 
of  our  individual  and  community  life,  our  civilization,  our  organizations 
of  government,  and  the  membership  of  the  Church.  If  we  live  the  Gos- 
pel we  can  not  be  anything  but  honest ;  if  we  are  good  citizens  of  this  na- 
tion we  can  not  properly  be  anything  but  honest.  If  honesty  is  lacking 
in  the  government,  then  it  will  gradually  disintegrate.  If  graft,  if  rack- 
eteering, if  other  dishonest  practices  prevail,  then  there  is  bound  to  be 
lack  of  confidence,  and  there  will  develop  an  increasing  attitude  of  dis- 
respect for  law  and  for  those  who  are  called  to  administer  the  laws. 

HONESTY  IN  GOVERNMENT 

We  are  entitled  to  expect  from  every  officer  of  the  government  that 
he  be  honest  in  his  dealings ;  and  when  he  has  the  direction  of  employees 
of  the  government,  that  he  shall  require  honesty  and  honest  service  from 
them ;  and  that  in  the  handling  of  funds  there  shall  be  strict  honesty,  and 
great  care  and  accuracy  maintained.  Honesty  is  a  disposition  to  con- 
form to  justice  and  honorable  dealing,  especially  in  regard  to  the  rights 
of  property.  Likewise,  it  involves  a  determination  to  conform  to  justice 
and  fair  dealing  in  all  our  relations  one  with  another.  We  can  apply 
honesty  to  our  actions  as  well  as  to  our  words.  That  is,  of  course,  truth- 
fulness and  straightforwardness. 

HONESTY  AND  TRUTHFULNESS  IN  POLITICS 

We  are  now  engaging  in  a  campaign  for  political  purposes.  It  is 
important  that  every  one  who  engages  therein  shall  be  careful  to  be  hon- 
est and  truthful  in  the  statements!  that  he  or  she  shall  make,  so  that  we 
may  not  indulge  in  acrimonious  discussion  and  develop  antagonism  and 
ill  feeling  which  is  contrary  to  proper  principles  of  political  activity  and 
of  government.  Our  statements  should  be  matters  of  fact  and  not  of 
assumption.  Our  political  views  should  be  constructive  and  not  destruc- 
tive. Any  candidate  who  makes  wild  promises  or  advocates  specious 
plans  impracticable  of  fulfilment,  or  who  has  not  previously  proven  him- 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


self  worthy  of  trust,  should  be  rejected.  Honest,  dependable  and  capable 
citizens  should  be  sought  for  positions  in  government.  It  is  our  business 
as  voters  to  analyze  carefully  the  character  of  the  candidates  and  their 
viewpoints  on  public  questions. 

HONESTY  IN  OUR  LIVES 

It  is  expected  of  every  one  of  us  who  are  engaged  in  Church  work, 
whether  as  members  or  as  officers  of  the  Church,  that  we  shall  exemplify 
in  our  lives  the  principle  of  honesty  just  as  we  do  every  other  cardinal 
virtue,  and  every  other  principle  of  the  Gospel.  Thereby  the  Church 
will  grow  and  thereby  the  faith  and  confidence  of  the  people  will  be 
increased.  I  am  happy  to  say  that  so  far  as  my  experience  goes,  almost 
without  exception,  the  officers  of  the  Church  are  thoroughly  straight- 
forward and  honest  in  their  dealings.  While  it  is  true  that,  in  large 
measure,  I  think  in  larger  measure  than  in  any  other  religious  organiza- 
tion, men  are  called  upon  to  handle  trust  funds  in  this  Church,  they  are, 
generally  speaking,  very  careful  and  strict.  I  think  it  is  of  great  im- 
portance that  we  should  stimulate  in  even  larger  measure  this  condition 
among  the  younger  members  of  the  Church  who  are  growing  up,  that 
they  may  also  develop  that  spirit  of  honesty,  fair  dealing  and  justice  in 
their  lives. 

BREAKDOWN  OF  HONESTY  AND  FAIR  DEALING 

There  is  a  trend  in  the  world  and  throughout  this  nation  in  large 
measure,  because  of  adverse  conditions  that  have  developed  in  the  last 
few  years,  to  break  down  the  spirit  of  honesty,  fairness,  justice  and 
truthfulness.  There  is  a  tendency  to  repudiate  debts,  whether  interna- 
tional or  local.  There  is  a  tendency  sometimes  to  go  into  avoidable 
bankruptcy,  whether  it  be  in  a  municipal  or  in  a  private  capacity.  It  is 
important  that  we,  as  parents,  in  our  homes,  and  as  officers  of  the 
Church,  should  fulfil  the  responsibility  to  teach  and  inspire  in  thei  young 
people  of  the  Church  an  appreciation  of  the  worth  of  honesty ;  and  to 
inculcate  in  the  lives  of  every  one  who  has  to  deal  with  funds  and  who  has 
to  deal  with  his  fellow  men,  an  appreciation  of  the  spirit  of  honesty,  fair- 
dealing  and  justice. 

I  have  been  astounded  in  hearing  reports  that  come  from  business 
men  of  misconduct  on  the  part  of  young  men  and  possibly  older  men. 
There  are,  unfortunately,  all  too  many  instances  in  business  life  of 
young  men,  supposedly  of  good  character  and  trustworthy,  who  have 
embezzled  funds  from  their  employers.  In  a  number  of  such  instances 
employers  have  protected  the  losses  and  protected  their  employes  from 
prosecution.  But,  of  course,  having  been  found  unworthy  of  trust,  they 
and  their  families  have  to  suffer  through  loss  of  employment  and  loss 
of  confidence.  Honesty  is  not  only  the  best  policy,  it  is  the  only  policy 
that  can  bring  peace  and  satisfaction  to  every  individual.  Concealment 
of  misdeeds  may  be  possible  for  a  time,  at  least,  but  sooner  or  later  any- 
one who  fails  to  practice  those  virtues  of  trustworthiness  and  fair  dealing 
will  lose  the  confidence  of  his  fellowmen  and  fail  in  those  qualities 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


87 


that  lie  at  the  very  foundation  of  character  and  progress.  Men  may 
succeed,  by  devious  means,  in  taking  property  that  does  not  belong  to 
them,  but  such  practices  will  destroy  the  moral  fiber  of  their  being.  Right 
of  property  is  guaranteed  to  us  under  the  constitution.  It  is  true  we 
are  subject  to  the  government  and  to  its  regulations;  and  it  is  true  also 
that  we  must  cooperate  in  sustaining  the  government,  but  at  the  same  time 
the  rights  of  property  can  not  be  made  null  and  void  without  destroying 
the  spirit  and  appreciation  of  fairness  among  mankind. 

DIVINE  INJUNCTIONS 

From  Mt.  Sinai,  many  centuries  ago,  came  the  injunctions  which 
are  just  as  binding  for  our  welfare  at  present  as  at  that  time :  "Thou 
shalt  not  steal,"  "Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness,"  and  "Thou  shalt 
not  covet."  The  prophet  Micah,  at  a  later  period,  made  the  statement : 

What  doth  the  Lord  require  of  thee,  but  to  do  justly,  and  to  love  mercy, 
and  to  walk  humbly  with  thy  God? 

Upon  every  one  of  us  rests  that  obligation  to  endeavor  to  be  fair, 
just,  honest,  straightforward  and  respectful  of  mutual  rights  in  our 
association  with  our  fellow  men.  If  we  take  advantage  of  others  by 
fraud,  we  are  just  as  guilty  as  one  who  steals.  If  we  are  employees,  it  is 
our  place  to  give  full,  true  service  for  the  compensation  we  receive ;  if  we 
are  employers,  to  deal  justly  and  fairly  with  our  employees ;  if  we  have 
the  handling  of  trust  funds  or  funds  belonging  to  others,  that  we  man- 
age them  strictly  and  carefully,  with  a  full  sense  of  our  responsibilities, 
and  not  for  a  moment  touch  one  cent  for  our  own  purposes. 

NEEDS  DO  NOT  JUSTIFY  DISHONESTY 

It  is  true  that  in  some  instances  people  are  greatly  in  need.  Some- 
times there  is  real  suffering.  But  there  are  ways  and  means  whereby 
needed  relief  can  be  obtained,  without  taking  that  which  does  not  belong 
to  them.  The  Church  is  doing,  and  will  do,  that  which  is  necessary 
for  the  welfare  of;  its  members  who  may  be  in  need.  Besides,  the  gov- 
ernment and  the  other  agencies  that  have  the  handling  of  relief  funds 
are  prepared  to  do  that  which  is  right,  proper  and  fair,  according  to 
actual  needs. 

HONESTY  OF  INDIVIDUAL  AT  HEART 

Unless  there  is  ingrained  in  the  "heart  of  the  individual  a  real  de- 
termination to  be  honest  and  straightforward,  the  trials  and  temptations 
which  he  or  she  will  encounter  in  life  will  be  such  as  to  almost,  if  not 
quite,  overpower  their  better  motives.  Therefore,  the  importance  of 
thorough  home  training  by  the  parents  by  example  in  their  every  act 
and  by  wise  and  frequent  teaching  of  their  children.  At  a  certain  age 
in  childhood  the  desire  to  have  that  which  they  see  is  great,  and  the 
sense  of  propriety  or  ownership  is  lacking.  So  the  careful  training  by 
parents,  especially  during  such  period  of  life,  is  particularly  vital.  As 
Shakespeare  very  aptly  makes  one  of  his  characters,  Polonius,  say  to  his 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


son  Laertes:  "This  above  all,  to  thine  own  self  be  true,  and  it  shall 
follow  as  the  night  the  day,  thou  canst  not  then  be  false  to  any  man." 
In  like  manner,  the  officers  of  the  Church  can  be  very  helpful  in  stimu- 
lating constantly  an  appreciation  of  the  necessity  of  strict  honesty  in 
all  matters  pertaining  to  Church  membership  and  activity,  and  to  the 
affairs  of  life. 

HONESTY  WITH  THE  LORD 

Just  as  we  should  undertake  to  be  true  to  ourselves  and  in  our 
relations  with  our  fellow-men,  so  we  should  determine  to  be  honest  with 
the  Lord.  If  we  have  faith  in  him  and  in  the  divinity  of  this  work, 
we  shall  endeavor  to  be  true  to  every  principle  and  seek  to  practice 
every  virtue  which  will  help  us  to  improve  in  right  living.  If  we  recog- 
nize our  stewardship  here  upon  the  earth,  we  shall  strive  to  be  honest 
in  our  donations  for  the  advancement  of  God's  purposes.  I  believe 
that  any  man  or  woman  who  is  a  faithful  tithepayer,  who  lives  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  spirit  of  that  principle,  will  be  honest  in  his  or  her 
dealings  with  his  fellow  man.  I  know  it  has  been  said  by  a  banker  here — 
not  a  member  of  our  Church — that  he  was  willing  to  trust  a  faithful  tithe- 
payer.  I  am  sure  that  viewpoint  is  correct.  Rarely,  if  ever,  can  you 
find  one  who,  is  faithful  in  the  spirit  and  practice  of  that  principle  who 
would  act  dishonestly  or  unfairly,  so  far  as  his  understanding  goes,  with 
regard  to  other  things. 

The  Apostle  Paul  says: 

Finally,  brethren,  whatsoever  things  are  true,  whatsoever  things  are  honest, 
whatsoever  things  are  just,  whatsoever  things  are  pure,  whatsoever  things  are 
lovely,  whatsoever  things  are  of  good  report;  if  there  be  any  virtue,  and  if 
there  be  any  praise,  think  on  these  things. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  in  this  respect,  and  in  all  other  efforts  to  serve 
him,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "How  firm  a  foundation,"  after 
which  Elder  Walter  K.  Barton,  President  of  the  Franklin  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday  morning,  October  7,  at  10 
o'clock. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday,  October  7. 

When  the  time  arrived  for  commencing  the  fifth  session  of  the 
Conference,  every  seat  and  available  space  in  the  great  Tabernacle  audi- 
torium and  galleries  was  occupied  by  the  people  who  had  gathered  from 
the  stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church.  The  large  Assembly  Hall  on  the 
Temple  Block  was  also  filled  with  people  who  could  not  find  accommoda- 
tion in  the  Tabernacle,  and  hundreds  of  others  assembled  on  the  Taber- 
nacle grounds,  where  they  were  able,  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment 
that  had  been  installed,  to  listen  to  the  Conference  proceedings  as  they 
were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Professor  Anthony 
C.  Lund,  furnished  the  music  for  this  session. 

The  meeting  commenced  promptly  at  10  o'clock. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem,  "An  Angel  from  on  High,"  duet  by 
Cyril  Martin  and  Ida  Hepworth. 

Elder  Asael  E.  Palmer,  President  of  the  Lethbridge  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

The  choir  sang,  "Lead  kindly  light." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  would  like  to  announce,  as  many  of  you  may  not  be  informed, 
that  Brother  Rufus  K.  Hardy  is  now  presiding  over  the  New  Zealand 
Mission,  which  is  the  reason  he  does  not  appear  on  the  stand. 

I  wish  to  say  for  Brother  Hardy  that  he  is  a  man  who  is  loved  by  all 
who  know  him.  The  older  members  of  the  Council  of  Seventy  have 
nominated  Brother  Hardy,  and  we  are  very  pleased  indeed  to  approve 
their  nomination.  He  is  a  tried  and  true  Latter-day  Saint.  He  had 
one  of  the  most  remarkable  and  splendid  mothers.  All  of  the  rest  of 
us  have  been  talking  about  our  mothers,  so  I  will  talk  about  his. 

Annie  K.  Hardy  was  an  outstanding  woman. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  if  it  were  possible  I  would  have  you 
interpret  my  feelings  this  morning  by  looking  into  the  depths  of  my  soul, 
and  thus  save  me  the  seeming  impossibility  of  describing  them  to  you. 
Needless  to  say  I  am  overwhelmed.  During  the  past  few  days  I  have 
had  difficulty  in  keeping  my  thoughts  and  feelings  under  control.  The 
light  heart,  the  buoyancy  of  spirit  that  should  accompany  the  high 
appointment  that  has  come  to  me  has  been  somewhat  counter-balanced 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


by  a  heaviness  incident  to  the  realization  of  the  great  responsibility  that 
comes  with  the  call  to  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  GRANT  A  TRUE  FRIEND 

I  love  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  He  has  been  to  me  a  true  friend; 
more  than  that,  since  my  father  died  I  have  felt  free  to  go  to  President 
Grant  for  help  and  counsel  as  I  would  go  to  my  own  father.  His  nature 
is  as  open,  as  pure  and  clear  as  a  faultless  crystal — open,  loyal,  true.  I 
esteem  it  indeed  the  highest  compliment  and  privilege  to  have  this  ex- 
pression of  his  confidence.  With  all  my  soul  I  pray  for  strength  that  I 
may  not  disappoint  him,  and  that  I  may  be  true  to  the  trust  that  he  and 
my  Heavenly  Father  have  thus  reposed  in  me. 

LOVE  AND  ADMIRATION  FOR  PRESIDENT  CLARK 

I  have  known  President  Clark  since  my  school  days  in  the  Uni- 
versity of  Utah.  1  admired  him  then.  I  considered  him  one  of  the 
choicest  young  men  I  had  ever  seen  or  had  ever  known.  His  ability 
was  evident  even  to  his  schoolmates.  He  and  the  sweet  girl  who  later 
became  my  sweetheart  and  wife,  were  graduated  with  their  A.  B.  degrees 
on  the  same  day.  We  have  followed  him  in  his  work  in  Washington,  we 
were  thrilled  when  we  learned  of  the  responsibility  that  he  carried  there, 
and  the  trust  which  the  members  of  the  Senate  of  the  United  States 
placed  upon  him  even  before  his  name  was  generally  known.  I  love  him 
as  a  friend,  and  to  be  associated  with  him  now  in  this  high  quorum,  the 
highest  in  the  Church,  makes  me  feel  very  happy  and  thankful,  but  also 
very  humble. 

LIVES  CONSECRATED  TO  SERVICE 

And  so  if  you  could  look  into  my  soul  you  would  see  sincere  gratitude 
and  deep  appreciation.  You  would  find  there  also  a  regret  that  I  am 
leaving  the  immediate  association  with  the  members  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  For  twenty-eight  and  one-half  years  it  has  been  my  privilege 
to  work  side  by  side  with  these  good  and  able  men.  President  Clawson 
I  love  with  all  my  soul.  His  worth  and  ability  are  not  generally  known. 
He  is  retiring,  he  is  quiet  in  his  labors,  a  perfect  gentleman,  genial,  kind, 
and  considerate.  As  the  president  of  the  Council  he  is  prompt  in  attend- 
ing to  questions  and  problems  referred  to  the  group,  as  loyal  and  true 
in  his  testimony  as  the  polar  star,  unwavering,  undeviating  in  the  dis- 
charging of  duty  and  trust.  It  is  not  easy  to  disentwine  my  soul  directly 
from  his,  my  president.  That  entwinement  is  just  as  binding  with  the 
hearts  of  these  brethren  with  whom  I  have  worked  daily,  at  times  in  com- 
mittees, considering  the  welfare  of  the  Church  at  large,  and  the  welfare 
of  individuals.  I  want  to  bear  witness  today  that  you  may  travel  the 
world  over,  you  may  read  your  histories  of  men  devoted  to  great  under- 
takings, and  noble  problems,  but  you  cannot  find  a  group  of  men  whose 
lives  are  more  consecrated,  whose  desires  are  more  noble  in  the  interests, 
the  happiness  and  peace  of  mankind,  than  are  the  lives  and  desires  of 
these,  my  associates  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  this  Church. 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


91 


You  must  live  with  them  to  know  them.  You  must  be  in  daily  contact 
with  the  burdens  they  are  carrying,  with  their  concerns  and  anxieties 
for  the  youth,  their  willingness  to  go  to  the  ends  of  the  world  at  a 
moment's  call  if  need  be  to  establish  better  conditions,  to  make  the  world 
happier,  more  peaceful,  more  just,  and  bring  about  more  amicable  condi- 
tions and  relationships  in  human  society.  And  so  it  is  not  an  easy  task, 
I  say,  it  is  not  without  regret  that  I  withdraw  my  membership  in  that 
Council. 

APPRECIATIVE  OF  TRUST 

I  appreciate  the  trust  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  have  manifested 
in  me.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  be  trusted.  I  said  last  night  to  the 
brethren  of  the  Priesthood  that  I  agree  with  him  who  says  that  to  be  trust- 
ed is  a  greater  compliment  than  to  be  loved.  Love  is  the  sweetest  thing  in 
the  world,  but  to  be  trusted  throws  upon  him  who  receives  that  trust 
an  obligation  that  he  must  not  fail  to  discharge.  And  so  I  pledge  you 
here,  my  fellow  workers  in  the  First  Presidency,  you  my  brethren  of 
the  Priesthood,  in  whose  company  I  have  spent  so  many  happy  hours  in 
Priesthood  and  auxiliary  work,  I  pledge  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  give  my  best  in  the  service  of  God. 

I  uphold  before  you  this  morning  the  President  of  this  Church 
as  God's  representative,  divinely  appointed,  and  say  to  all  Israel,  stand  by 
your  chief.  Let  that  spirit  of  unity  and  oneness  for  which  our  Lord  and 
Savior  prayed  on  the  night  of  his  betrayal,  be  characteristic  of  this  his 
Church :  Father,  keep  them  one,  as  thou  and  I  are  one. 

'    MAN  DESTINED  TO  BE  HAPPY 

I  am  happy  when  I  know  that  my  associates  are  happy.  We  cannot 
be  happy  if  our  loved  ones  are  discouraged  or  ill.  We  are  social  beings 
and  our  lives  are  intricately  woven  one  with  another,  and  we  progress  as 
a  body  when  individuals  in  the  body  progress.  I  have  noted  recently 
something  which  has  given  me  concern.  I  have  thought  that  I 
have  detected  in  men  and  women  who  have  called  upon  me  and  whom 
I  have  met  in  my  travels  just  a  little  evidence  of  discouragement,  and  yet 
it  is  our  right  to  be  happy.  It  is  the  destiny  of  man  to  have  joy,  and  I 
ask,  during  the  few  moments  that  I  further  stand  before  you  that  you 
direct  your  attention  with  me  along  some  lines  which  may  help  us  to  keep 
that  joy,  notwithstanding  the  economic  conditions  and  the  failures  that 
have  brought  about  many  moments  of  discouragement-  and  sadness. 

DISTRESSFUL  CONDITIONS 

Difficulties  and  sorrows  have  recently  been  dominant  in  our  lives. 
The  unprecedented  crises  in  the  financial  world  have  dislodged  men  from 
their  old  moorings  and  set  them  adrift  in  confusion  and  in  many  cases 
despair.  Land  owners  have  seen  their  farms  pass  to  others'  hands,  while 
they  themselves  distractedly  seek  new  arid  strange  employment.  Families 
have  lost  their  homes  with  which  are  associated  the  tender  memories  of 
half  a  lifetime.   Young  men  and  young  women  recently  graduated  from 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


college,  eager  to  start  out  in  a  chosen  vocation  or  a  profession,  find 
avenues  that  were  formerly  open  and  inviting  now  closed  against  them, 
and  they  seek  advice  and  guidance,  and  sometimes  we  find  difficulty  in 
pointing  out  to  them  an  encouraging  road. 

To  these  and  other  distresses  has  been  added  the  sorrow  associated 
with,  the  passing  of  loved  ones  and  to  the  Church  the  loss  of  great  and 
able  leaders.  I  had  the  privilege  and  honor  through  the  kindness  of 
President  Ivins'  family  to  express  my  feelings  towards  that  great  leader 
and  I  sense  with  you  all  that  his  passing  means  to  this  Church. 

SUNSHINE  NEEDED 

But  notwithstanding  these  conditions  I  feel  like  pleading  with  my 
brethren  and  sisters  to  set  their  faces  firmly  to  the  front  and  decide 
to  enjoy  the  blessings  with  which  our  Father  has  blessed  us. 

There  are  seeds  of  happiness  planted  in  every  human  soul.  Our 
mental  attitude  and  disposition  constitute  the  environment  in  which  these 
seeds  may  germinate.  There  is  as  much  need  for  sunshine  in  the  heart 
as  for  sunshine  in  the  world.  Today  as  perhaps  never  before  mankind 
needs  encouragement  and  cheer.  One  writer  says :  "Not  having  enough 
sunshine  is  what  ailed  the  world.  Make  people  happy  and  there  will 
not  be  half  the  quarreling  nor  a  tenth  part  of  the  wickedness  there  is." 

It  is  a  duty  to  seek  to  acquire  the  art  of  being  cheerful — "A  cheerful 
spirit  is  one  of  the  most  valuable  gifts  ever  bestowed  upon  humanity  by 
a  kind  Creator.  It  is  the  sweetest  and  most  fragrant  flower  of  the 
spirit  that  constantly  sends  out  its  beauty  and  fragrance  and  blesses  every- 
thing within  its  reach."  I  think  the  writer  goes  to  a  little  extreme.  Cheer- 
fulness is  but  one  quality,  but  it  is  a  wonderful  strength  in  time  of 
distress. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  WORLDLY  POSSESSIONS 

If  the  experience  of  the  past  few  years  has  taught  us  anything  it 
has  taught  us  that  it  is  unwise  to  seek  happiness  in  worldly  possessions 
only.  I  say  only  because  I  do  not  minimize  the  value  of  material  things 
of  the  world  as  contributing  factors  to  man's  peace,  joy  and  contentment. 
The  Lord  himself  has  said  that  if  we  worship  him  with  rejoicing  and 
prayer,  with  glad  hearts  and  cheerful  countenances,  the  fulness  of  the 
earth  is  ours. 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  he  says  plainly: 

The  fulness  of  the  earth  is  yours,  the  beasts  of  the  field  and  the  fowls  of  the 
air,  and  that  which  climbeth  upon  the  trees  and  walketh  upon  the  earth; 

Yea,  and  the  herb,  and  the  good  things  which  come  of  the  earth,  whether 
for  food  or  for  raiment,  or  for  houses,  or  for  barns,  or  for  orchards,  or  for  gardens, 
or  for  vineyards; 

Yea,  all  things  which  come  of  the  earth,  in  the  season  thereof,  are  made 
for  the  benefit  and  the  use  of  man,  both  to  please  the  eye  and  to  gladden  the 
heart ; 

Yea,  for  food  and  for  raiment,  for  taste  and  for  smell,  to  strengthen  the 
body  and  to  enliven  the  soul. 

And  it  pleaseth  God  that  he  hath  given  all  these  things  unto  man;  for  unto  this 
end  were  they  made  to  be  used,  with  judgment,  not  to  excess,  neither  for  extortion. 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


93 


However,  to  seek  happiness  or  even  contentment  in  the  acquisition 
of  these  worldly  things  alone  is  to  lose  sight  of  the  higher  purpose  of 
life.  And  that  is  one  reason  why  there  is  discouragement  and  why  there 
is  despair  generally  in  the  world.  The  seeking  of  these  material  things 
has  been  the  end,  and  now  that  they  seem  to  be  suddenly  wiped  away, 
men  are  distracted: 

A  PROPER  SENSE  OF  VALUES 

In  "The  Simple  Life"  by  Charles  Wagner,  he  writes  upon  this 
theme  and  says,  referring  to  material  things :  "Let  your  needs  rule  you, 
pamper  them — you  will  see  them  multiply  like  insects  in  the  sun.  The 
more  you  give  them  the  more  they  demand.  He  is  senseless  who  seeks 
for  happiness  in  material  prosperity  alone." 

Recently  I  re-read  an  excellent  book  written  by  one  of  our  educators, 
Dr.  R.  V.  Chamberlain,  as  a  tribute  to  his  departed  brother.  It  is  a  treat- 
ise on  the  philosophy  of  a  good  man's  life.  From  it  I  quote  the  following : 

The  world  has  progressed  because  of  people  who  cared  but  little  for  material 
rewards,  people  who  knew  that  mortal  self-denial  is  the  only  path  to  self-realization. 
By  sacrificing  our  ideals  we  do  not  throw  ourselves  away,  but  achieve  the  higher 
sides  of  ourselves.  Civilization  has  come  from  the  struggles  of  men  and  women 
in  the  past  who  risked  all  for  ideals,  for  spiritual  values  that  they  might  become 
the  common  possession  of  the  race.  We  who  see  the  path  today  are  unworthy  if 
we  do  not  take  up  the  burden.  The  race  goes  down  when  it  loses  its  sense  of  values, 
and  the  success  of  democracy  depends  upon  the  people's  living  in  the  understanding 
of  the  spirit  and  the  obligations  of  righteousness.  In  the  world  today  men  have 
not  advanced  their  ideals  with  an  intensity  commensurate  with  economics  and 
material  expansion.  Wisdom  has  not  kept  pace  with  learning,  nor  righteousness 
with  power. 

So  many  people  have  lost  the  proper  sense  of  values,  and  have 
sought  peace  and  happiness  in  vain  in  the  acquisition  of  wealth  at  the 
expense  of  spiritual  growth. 

THE  SECRET  OF  HAPPINESS 

Wherein  then  does  the  secret  of  happiness  lie  ?  The  Savior  gives  us 
the  key  to  it  when  he  says :  "The  kingdom  of  God  is  within  you."  The 
power  is  within  man  to  choose  the  right  or  to  choose  the  wrong.  Happi- 
ness is  not  an  external  condition,  it  is  a  state  of  the  spirit  and  attitude  of 
the  mind. 

It's  no'  in  titles  nor  in  the  rank, 
It's  no'  in  wealth  like  Lun'on  bank, 
To  purchase  peace  and  rest. 
It's  no'  in  makin'  muckle  mair, 
It's  no'  in  books,  it's  no'  in  lear 
To  make  us  truly  blest, 

If  happiness  ha'e  not  her  center  i'  the  breast. 
We  may  be  wise  or  rich  or  great, 
But  never  can  be  blest — 

Nae  pleasures,  nor  treasures  can  make  us  happy  lang, 
The  heart  aye's  the  part  aye 
That  makes  us  right  or  wrang. 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FUNDAMENTAL  CONDITIONS 

Let  us  consider  this  morning  four  conditions  in  which  we  can  always 
find  happiness,  conditions  which  are  to  the  little  seeds  of  joy  in  our 
souls  what  the  ray  of  light  and  moisture  are  to  the  flowers  and  growing 
plants. 

First  is  Trust  in  God.  To  have  faith  that  God  is  our  Father  is  the 
safest  anchorage  of  the  soul  and  brings  peace  and  solace  under  any 
condition ;  and  the  second  is  Confidence  in  Our  Fellow  Men.  You  note 
at  once,  of  course,  how  these  go  back  to  those  two  great  commandments : 
"Love  the  Lord  with  all  thy  might,  mind,  and  strength,  and  thy  neighbor 
as  thyself." 

Now  let  us  not  consider  these  merely  as  orthodox  principles.  They 
are  fundamental  in  our  happiness  and  salvation  here.  I  know  that  it  is  a 
little  difficult  today  to  keep  confidence  in  certain  groups  of  men.  It  is 
dreadfully  discouraging  to  lose  confidence  in  an  associate.  When  we 
see  and  read  about  human  jackals  who  are  preying  upon  society,  we  find 
it  hard  sometimes  to  keep  our  poise  and  let  the  sunshine  of  confidence 
enter  our  souls,  and  yet  I  believe  it  is  true  that  mankind  generally  are 
growing  better.  This  I  do  know  that  often  when  we  misjudge  a  brother 
and  seem  to  lose  confidence  in  him,  if  we  will  go  to  him  and  find  his  point 
of  view  our  confidence  will  be  restored.  The  poet  was  right  when  he 
said : 

Have  you  ever  sat  down  and  talked  with  men  in  a  serious  sort  of  way, 

Of  their  views  of  life,  and  pondered  then  on  all  they  had  to  say? 

If  not,  you  should,  in  some  quiet  hour ; 

It's  a  glorious  thing  to  do, 

For  back  of  the  wealth  and  back  of  the  power 

Most  men  have  a  goal  in  view. 

Associate  that  thought  with  the  fundamental  teaching  of  our  Lord 
and  Master,  who  said:  "If  ye  have  aught  against  a  brother,  go  to  him." 

COUNT  YOUR  BLESSINGS 

Brethren  and  sisters,  with  debts  piled  upon  you,  with  difficulty  to 
pay  your  taxes,  with  the  loss  of  your  home  pending,  if  you  would  still  be 
happy,  look  to  yourself  and  count  your  blessings,  and  keep  confidence  in 
your  God  and  in  your  fellow  man. 

Another  source  of  joy  within  your  reach  is  the  proper  evaluation  of 
blessings.  You  have  your  health.  Next  to  life  itself  that  is  one  of  the 
greatest  blessings  that  can  come  to  you — the  second  blessing  that  we 
mortals  are  capable  of  receiving,  a  blessing  that  money  cannot  buy.  If 
you  have  it,  thank  the  Lord  night  and  morning  that  he  has  given  it  to  you. 

In  addition  to  this  he  has  given  you  ability  to  appreciate  his  glorious 
Gospel,  the  sunshine,  the  voice  of  nature  speaking  to  you.  Do  you  open 
your  eyes  and  see  it?  I  have  rejoiced  during  this  conference  to  hear  the 
brethren  acknowledge  the  blessing  of  our  environment,  the  products  of 
the  field,  scanty  as  they  are,  in  some  sections  of  the  country,  the  flowers 
blooming,  the  sunsets,  and  above  all  the  realization  that  we  are  living  in 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


95 


God's  world  and  that  he  is  the  Creator  of  it.  If  you  stop  to  think  you 
still  have  the  power  and  ability  to  appreciate  and  to  enjoy  things  which 
no  one,  no  depression  can  take  from  you. 

There  is  something  else  which  we  sometimes  do  not  properly  evalu- 
ate. That  is  our  family.  I  know  it  hurts  us  if  we  see  our  loved  ones 
hungry.  As  President  Grant  so  impressively  said,  there  is  no  need  of  any 
child  being  hungry  in  this  Church.  Let  us  thank  God  for  the  organization 
and  say  we  will  buckle  to  and  make  our  contributions  so  that  these 
conditions  will  be  removed,  and  thank  him  for  our  loved  ones,  ours  for 
time  and  all  eternity. 

SOCIAL  INTERCOURSE 

Finally,  you  have  the  opportunity  for  social  intercourse,  an  ever 
present  condition  of  happiness.  If  you  affiliate  with  your  quorum  and 
other  organizations,  meeting  regularly  with  your  fellow  men,  you  will 
know  what  that  brotherhood  is  to  which  I  have  referred  in  my  association 
with  these  brethren  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  a  brotherhood  which 
is  eternal,  a  family  relationship  and  social  contact  which  will  drive  sorrow 
away  under  any  conditions,  and  you  have  too  the  realization  that  even 
if  death  should  come  you  have  the  assurance  that  death  is  now  victorious 
but  has  been  overcome  in  the  resurrection  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Count  these  blessings.  They  are  within  the  reach  of  every  soul,  no  mat- 
ter how  humble  or  how  great. 

Admire  the  goodness  of  Almighty  God. 

He  riches  gave,  He  intellectual  strength  to  few, 

Nor  now  commands  to  be  nor  rich  nor  learned, 

Nor  promises  reward  of  peace  to  these. 

On  all  he  moral  worth  bestowed, 

And  moral  tribute  asks  from  all, 

And  who  that  could  not  pay  ? 

Who  born  so  poor  of  intellect,  so  mean 

Who  born  so  poor  as  not  to  know  what  seemed  the  best, 

And  unknowing  might  not  do? 

And  he  who  acted  thus  fulfilled  the  law  eternal 

And  its  promises  reaped  in  peace. 

That  means  that  you  know  what  is  right.  If  you  have  lived  true  to 
that  prompting  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  continue  to  do  so  happiness  will 
fill  your  soul.  If  you  vary  from  it  and  become  conscious  you  have  fallen 
short  of  what  you  know  is  right,  you  are  going  to  be  unhappy  if  you 
have  the  wealth  of  the  world.  To  do  that  is  to  "seek  roses  on  the 
cheek  of  death,"  "grapes  'neath  the  icy  pole,"  "substance  in  a  world 
of  fleeting  shades." 

A  GUIDE 

And  so,  brethren  and  sisters,  what  if  we  do  have  economic  distress, 
universal  almost?  Let  us  ever  keep  in  mind  that  life  is  largely  what  we 
make  it,  and  that  the  Savior  of  men  has  marked  clearly  and  plainly  just 
how  joy  and  peace  may  be  obtained.  It  is  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  adherence  thereto.  Do  your  duties  no  matter  how  humbly,  and  resolve 
even  in  the  face  of  difficulties  and  discouragements  to  be : 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Like  the  man  who  faces  what  he  must 
With  step  triumphant  and  a  heart  of  cheer; 
Who  fights  the  daily  battle  without  fear ; 
Sees  his  hopes  fail,  yet  keeps  unfaltering  trust 
That  God  is  God. 

Happy  the  people  whose  God  is  the  Lord,  says  the  Psalmist 

— that  somehow,  true  and  just 

His  plans  work  out  for  mortals ;  not  a  tear 

Is  shed  when  fortune,  which  the  world  holds  dear, 

Falls  from  his  grasp ;  better,  with  love,  a  crust 

Than  living  in  dishonor ;  envies  not, 

Nor  loses  faith  in  man;  but  does  his  best, 

Nor  ever  mourns  over  his  humbler  lot, 

But  with  a  smile  and  words  of  hope,  gives  zest 

To  every  toiler !  he  alone  is  great 

Who  by  a  life  heroic  conquers  fate. 

And  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  which  each  one  who  has  obeyed  the  first 
principles  of  the  Gospel  is  entitled  will  give  him  or  her  that  heroic  soul 
and  bring  peace,  peace  even  in  the  midst  of  disaster. 

May  God  bless  us  all  with  power  to  keep  our  post,  to  do  our  duty, 
and  under  all  circumstances  to  be  true  to  him  and  to  each  other,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Praise 
to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah." 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  once  more  I  stand  before  you,  the  ben- 
eficiary of  your  trust  and  confidence.  You  have  honored  me  as  I  have 
never  been  honored  before.  You  have  placed  upon  me  a  responsibility 
which  I  never  before  had.  I  can  only  say  to  you  that  every  atom  of 
strength  which  I  possess  will  be  used  so  to  live  that  I  may  merit  the 
trust  and  the  confidence  which  you  have  indicated,  and  that  I  may  re- 
ceive the  inspiration  and  the  blessings  which  I  must  ask  you  to  ask  the 
Lord  to  give  unto  me. 

We  are  missing  today  the  face,  perhaps  not  the  presence,  of  one 
who  has  been  with  us  during  a  long  life,  President  Ivins.  For  his  great 
work,  for  the  lesson  of  his  life,  for  his  faith,  for  his  counsel,  we  are  all 
devoutly  grateful.  The  most  earnest  hope  that  I  myself  have  is  that 
while  it  shall  please  the  Lord  to  have  me  in  the  place  which  he  held,  I  shall 
be  measurably  able  to  do  the  work  which  he  performed. 

CONFERENCES  TO  IMPART  SPIRITUALITY 

I  missed  this  morning,  speaking  personally,  the  broadcast  of  the 
choir.  It  has  seemed  to  me,  in  the  times  that  I  have  been  here,  that 
nothing  has  given  us  more  of  the  Spirit  with  which  to  begin  a  session  than 
their  beautiful  singing.  I  accompanied  them  to  Chicago.  I  rejoiced  in  their 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


97 


success.  I  congratulate  them  in  their  excellence.  I  pray  the  Lord  to 
continue  to  bless  them. 

We  are  met  today  in  a  general  conference.  Sometimes,  I  hear, 
the  people  feel,  some  of  them,  that  perhaps  we  are  not  quite  as  "peppy" 
as  we  ought  to  be.  But  this  is  not  a  Church  convention.  This  is  a  gen- 
eral conference  where  we  meet  for  general  counsel  and  advice.  It  is  a 
place  to  which  we  come  for  the  results  of  the  reflective  operations  of  our 
minds.  We  expect  to  hear  reflective  discourse.  It  is  a  sort  of  spiritual 
stock-taking  for  us.  It  is  not  so  much  the  mechanics  of  the  operation 
of  the  Church,  that  is  concerned  in  a  general  conference,  as  it  is  the 
spirituality  with  which  each  and  every  one  of  us  shall  approach  his  re- 
spective duties  in  the  Church. 

I  want  to  approve,  with  all  of  my  heart,  all  that  has  been  said  during 
this  conference.  This  morning,  if  the  Lord  shall  so  lead  me,  I  want  to 
follow  along  the  lines  that  were  drawn  by  Brother  Stephen  L.  Richards 
and  referred  to  by  Brother  George  Albert  Smith,  and  in  doing  that  I 
wish  to  assure  you  that  I  have  in  my  heart  nothing  but  the  deepest  sym- 
pathy for  those  who  are  in  distress.  And  yet,  as  Brother  McKay 
has  beautifully  pointed  out  to  us  this  morning,  there  are  other  things 
in  life  than  those  material  blessings  to  get  which  so  many  of  the  world 
have  solely  set  their  hearts. 

LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  SHOULD  SET  EXAMPLE 

Eighteen  months  ago,  when  first  I  stood  before  you  I  called  atten- 
tention,  as  earnestly  and  seriously  as  I  knew  how,  to  what  looked  to  me 
to  be  the  dangers  that  were  ahead,  and  I  urged  you  at  that  time  to  practice 
the  old  virtues  of  thrift,  of  honesty,  of  truthfulness,  of  industry,  and  so 
on  through  the  list  of  those  I  named.  All  that  I  said  then  I  say  again. 

One  year  ago,  on  this  occasion,  I  called  your  attention  to  the  abuses 
that  had  crept  into  the  distribution  of  our  public  funds,  and  I  urged  you 
and  pleaded  with  you  that,  so  far  as  the  Church  and  its  membership 
were  concerned,  we  do  not  soil  our  hands  with  the  bounteous  outpouring 
of  funds  which  the  government  was  giving  unto  us.  I  renew  that  plea 
now.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  sake  of  the  government  which  we 
love,  for  the  sake  of  the  government  which  we  believe  was  divinely 
inspired,  be  honest  with  it.  Be  honest,  just  ordinarily  gold  honest.  That 
is  all  I  ask. 

Do  you  know  that  all  of  the  money  that  we  are  spending,  that  the 
government  is  spending,  must  come  from  you  ?  The  government  has  no 
great  pile  of  gold  to  which  it  can  go  to -get  what  it  gives  you.  The  gov- 
ernment has  not  one  cent  that  it  does  not  take  from  your  pockets.  Do 
not  imagine,  do  not  believe,  do  not  go  on  the  theory  that  you  are  not  to 
pay  this  bill,  unless  the  fundamentals  of  our  government  are  to  be  over- 
turned. 

What  we  get,  we  members  of  the  Church,  compared  with  the  total 
mass  that  is  distributed,  is  almost  microscopic,  but  the  spirit  in  which 
we  might  take  it,  the  spirit  in  which  we  might  spend  it,  is  the  leaven  that 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


might  leaven  the  whole  lump.  Let  us  be  patriotic ;  let  us  love  the  govern- 
ment under  which  we  live. 

I  am  persuaded,  from  all  the  facts  that  have  come  to  me,  that  it 
would  have  been  possible,  if  we  had  functioned  as  the  Lord  intended 
us  to  function,  if  we  had  paid  our  tithes  and  our  offerings  as  the  Lord 
intended  us  to  pay  them,  we  might  have  gone  on  without  one  dollar 
from  our  federal  government.  And  has  it  ever  occurred  to  you  what  a 
mighty  influence  we  should  have  exercised  for  good  and  for  respect  and 
for  all  of  the  virtues  that  we  have  been  taught,  and  that  God  has  com- 
manded us  to  exercise  and  cultivate  and  practice,  if  we  had  just  fol- 
lowed along  what  he  has  asked  us  to  do  ? 

DESPOTISM,  DESTRUCTIVE  TO  RELIGION  AND  GOVERNMENT  IDEALS 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  abroad  in  the  world  forces — 
and  this  I  have  been  saying  to  you  on  every  occasion  that  presented  itself 
for  the  last  fifteen  years,  here  in  this  pulpit — there  are  forces  abroad 
that  do  not  come  from  God.  There  is  no  dictatorship  in  the  world 
today,  whether  that  dictatorship  be  of  one  man  or  of  a  group  exercising 
such  control  as  exists  in  Russia,  that  is  not  striking  first  and  foremost 
at  religion.  They  are  trying  to  tear  down  the  worship  of  God  and  to 
substitute  something  else  in  its  stead,  and  I  regret  to  say  that  in  some 
parts  of  this  country,  in  some  states  of  this  Union,  the  issue  now  seems 
to  be  between  an  ordered,  law-governed  society  and  a  despotism  destruc- 
tive of  religion  and  of  all  that  our  government  stands  for.  I  assume 
this  because  of  the  past  record  of  those  who  are  advocating  the  measures 
to  which  I  refer. 

May  I  say  this :  We  believe  that  Christ  will  come  and  reign  per- 
sonally upon  the  earth.  But  that  is  no  reason  why  I  should  advocate  the 
establishment  of  a  monarchy  to  overturn  the  government  of  the  United 
States.  We  believe  in  the  United  Order,  something  that  was  taken  away 
from  us  because  we  could  not  live  it,  and  the  lesser  law  was  given,  the  law 
of  tithing — which  we  are  not  living  either ;  but  our  belief  in  the  United 
Order  is  no  reason  why  we  should  support  a  movement  for  Communism, 
to  the  overturning  of  our  government.  These  two  propositions  are  abso- 
lutely parallel,  the  one  as  rational  and  reasonable  as  the  other.  When  the 
Lord  wants  his  people  to  move  into  the  United  Order  he  will  use  his 
anointed  servant  to  direct  the  way. 

SUBSTITUTION 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  same  element  of  which  I  speak — 
small,  I  feel  sure,  and  I  thank  God  for  this — this  same  element  would 
substitute  for  the  law  that  has  come  to  us  for  over  thirty-five  hundred 
years,  "Thou  shalt  not  steal,"  and  "Thou  shalt  not  covet,"  they  would 
substitute  the  opposite  "Steal  from  those  who  have.  Covet  all  that 
your  neighbor  possesses." 

The  Lord  has  spoken  very  clearly  about  these  things.  He  has  not  left 
us  in  darkness  on  these  matters.  I  am  going  to  read  a  few  verses 
from  Section  56  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  given  in  connection 


PRESIDENT  7.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


99 


with  the  rapacity,  the  pride,  and  the  selfishness  of  one  of  the  early 
members  of  the  Church: 

Behold,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  my  people,  you  have  many  things  to  do 
and  to  repent  of;  for  behold,  your  sins  have  come  up  unto  me,  and  are  not  par- 
doned, because  you  seek  to  counsel  in  your  own  ways. 

And  your  hearts  are  not  satisfied.  And  ye  obey  not  the  truth,  but  have  pleasure 
in  unrighteousness. 

Wo  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not  give  your  substance  to  the  poor,  for  your 
riches  will  canker  your  souls;  and  this  shall  be  your  lamentation  in  the  day  of 
visitation  and  of  judgment,  and  of  indignation:  The  harvest  is  past,  the  summer 
is  ended,  and  my  soul  is  not  saved ! 

RELY  ON  THE  LORD'S  PLAN 

I  refer  to  the  words  of  Elder  Richards,  and  I  tell  you  that  any 
Latter-day  Saint  who  does  pay  an  income  tax,  and  who  at  the  same  time 
pays  his  tithing,  his  fast  offerings,  his  donations,  his  help  for  the  poor, 
will  never  be  able  to  get  the  full  benefit  under  the  fifteen  per  cent  which 
the  tax  income  provides  for.  In  other  words,  those  men  among  us  who 
have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  who  obey  his  laws,  will  always  spend 
more  than  fifteen  per  cent  of  their  income  for  the  Church  and  its  work 
and  people.  That  is  one  reason  why  I  say  to  you  as  I  said  a  few 
moments  ago,  that  if  we  had  but  hearkened  to  the  Lord  and  obeyed 
his  commandments  there  would  have  been  no  occasion  for  us  to  have 
drawn  on  the  federal  government.  I  also  say  to  you  that  in  my  opinion, 
reached  after  mature  reflection,  this  people  would  have  been  better  off  ma- 
terially and  spiritually,  if  we  had  relied  on  the  Lord's  plan  and  had  not 
used  one  dollar  of  government  funds. 

This  revelation  goes  on: 

Wo  unto  you  poor  men,  whose  hearts  are  not  broken,  whose  spirits  are  not 
contrite,  and  whose  bellies  arel  not  satisfied,  and  whose  hands  are  not  stayed  from 
laying  hold  upon  other  men's  goods,  whose  eyes  are  full  of  greediness,  and  who 
will  not  labor  with  your  own  hands ! 

Those  are  not  my  words,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Those  are  the 
words  of  the  Lord,  a  commandment  to  this  day  and  generation. 

For  behold,  (the  revelation  continues)  the  Lord  shall  come,  and  his  recompense 
shall  be  with  him,  and  he  shall  reward  every  man,  and  the  poor  shall  rejoice; 

And  their  generations  shall  inherit  the  earth,  from  generation  to  generation, 
forever  and  ever.  And  now  I  make  an  end  of  speaking  unto  you.  Even  so.  Amen. 

THROUGH  HONESTY  COMES  POWER  AND  DIGNITY 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  once  more  I  appeal  to  your  patriotism,  I 
appeal  to  your  integrity,  I  appeal  to  your  standing  in  the  Church — in 
your  dealings  with  the  government  be  just  plain,  simple,  money  honest. 
Then  there  will  come  among  this  people  such  a  spirit  of  power  and  dignity 
and  of  uplifting,  that  has  not  been  known  in  my  generation  at  least. 

I  thank  you  for  those  of  you  who  are  faithful — and  you  are  the  great 
majority — for  those  of  you  who  are  trying  to  follow  after  the  foot-steps 
of  the  Master,  for  those  of  you  who  are  doing  your  utmost  to  live  the 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Gospel  of  Christ,  for  those  of  you  who  can  say,  as  did  Paul  of  old  to 
Timothy, — and  I  want  to  read  it : 

For  I  am  now  ready  to  be  offered,  and  the  time  of  my  departure  is  at  hand. 
I  have  fought  a  good  fight,  I  have  finished  my  course,  I  have  kept  the  faith : 

Henceforth  there  is  laid  up  for  me  a  crown  of  righteousness,  which  the  Lord, 
the  righteous  judge,  shall  give  me  at  that  day;  and  not  to  me  only,  but  unto  al] 
them  also  that  love  his  appearing. 

Again,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  hour,  filled  with  love  and 
with  respect  for  this  government  of  ours,  which  if  men  do  not  change 
their  greediness  and  their  avarice  and  their  covetousness,  stands  in 
gravest  danger, — again  I  plead  with  you,  be  money  honest  with  our 
government. 

May  God  give  us  his  Spirit  at  all  times  and  in  all  circumstances, 
and  enable  us  to  live  as  he  would  have  usl  live,  always  true  and  faithful 
to  his  principles,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  great  gathering  is  an  amazing  sight. 
The  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  its  utmost  capacity.  Last  evening  it  was 
reported  there  were  five  thousand  of  the  Priesthood  assembled  here. 
Later  word  came  that  the  number  was  seven  thousand.  I  presume  there 
are  some  people  who  would  interpret  this  to  mean  that  Mormonism  is 
failing.  I  have  been  thrilled  with  the  spirit  of  this  conference ;  the  testi- 
monies and  exhortations  that  have  been  given  were  powerful,  and  the 
singing  has  been  most  excellent. 

I  desire  to  speak  a  word  of  appreciation  for  the  Singing  Mothers 
who  have  done  so  well  during  the  conference,  under  the  direction  of 
Mrs.  Charlotte  Sackett,  a  capable  leader.  As  to  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
I  need  only  to  say  its  work  is  "par  excellence." 

INTELLIGENCE  NECESSARY  TO  ACCEPTABLE  WORSHIP 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  moments  are  precious,  and  in  order  to 
conserve  the  time,  I  jotted  down  a  few  thoughts  that  have  been  running 
through  my  mind  during  the  conference.  This  is  the  fifth  session  of  the 
conference.  We  are  assembled  here  to  worship  the  Lord,  but  we  cannot 
worship  him  intelligently  and  acceptably  without  some  knowledge  of  just 
What  kind  of  being  he  is. 

Paul,  the  apostle,  said:  "This  is  life  eternal  that  they  might  know 
thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent."  There 
are  some  people  in  the  world  around  us  who  contend  that  God  is  a  being 
without  body,  parts  or  passions,  and  is  incomprehensible.  Truly  such  a 
God  is  incomprehensible. 

ATTRIBUTES  ASCRIBED  TO  GOD 

The)  God  of  the  Bible,  that  being  whom  the  Latter-day  Saints  wor- 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


101 


ship,  it  is  evident,  has  a  body,  parts  and  passions,  for  in  the  beginning 
he  said : 

"Let  us  make  man  in  our  image,  after  our  likeness."  And  the  rec- 
ord goes  on  to  say  that  God  did  make  man  in  his  own  image  and  after 
his  likeness.  It  is  disclosed  in  Holy  Writ  that  Moses  saw  God  and 
talked  with  him  face  to  face.  It  is  also  recorded  that  Christ  Jesus  was  in 
the  express  image  of  God  his  Father. 

The  attributes  of  God  which  in  combination  go  to  make  his  character 
are  glorious  to  contemplate.  The  Lord  is  a  God  of  mercy,  a  God  of  truth, 
a  God  of  justice  and  a  God  of  love.  In  respect  to  these  great  attributes 
God  is  unchangeable.    In  Malachi  the  following  scripture  is  found : 

For  I  am  the  Lord,  I  change  not ;  therefore  ye  sons  of  Jacob  are  not  consumed. 

In  one  of  the  Psalms  we  read  "The  Lord  is  merciful  and  gracious, 
slow  to  anger,  and  plenteous  in  mercy."  These  references  clearly  indi- 
cate that  God  has  passions. 

And  on  the  other  hand,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  Lord  refers  to 
himself  as  a  God  of  vengeance,  and  I  am  going  to  read  to  you  now  a 
few  words  from  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Let  me 
emphasize  the  importance  of  this  record.  It  is  a  great  book.  It  con- 
tains revelations  of  God  in  latter  times,  given  to  Joseph  Smith  the 
Prophet,  and  others.  I  refer  to  Section  133,  and  the  words  there  re- 
corded are  extremely  important  and  impressive : 

And  it  shall  be  said :  'Who  is  this  that  cometh  down  from  God  in  heaven  with 
dyed  garments ;  yea,  from  the  regions  which  are  not  known,  clothed  in  his  glor- 
ious apparel,  traveling  in  the  greatness  of  his  strength? 

And  he  shall  say :  I  am  he  who  spake  in  righteousness,  mighty  to  save. 

And  the  Lord  shall  be  red  in  his  apparel,  and  his  garments  like  him  that 
treadeth  in  the  wine-vat. 

And  so  great  shall  be  the  glory  of  his  presence  that  the  sun  shall  hide  his  face 
in  shame,  and  the  moon  shall  withhold  its  light,  and  the  stars  shall  be  hurled  from 
their  places. 

And  his  voice  shall  be  heard :  I  have  trodden  the  wine-press  alone,  and  have 
brought  judgment  upon  all  people;  and  none  were  with  me; 

And  I  have  trampled  them  in  my  fury,  and  I  did  tread  upon  them  in  mine 
anger,  and  their  blood  have  I  sprinkled  upon  my  garments,  and  stained  all  my 
raiment;  for  this  was  the  day  of  vengeance  which  was  in  my  heart. 

And  again,  in  the  same  great  section : 

And  also  that  which  was  written  by  the  prophet  Malachi:  For,  behold,  the 
day  cometh  that  shall  burn  as  an  oven,  and  all  the  proud,  yea,  and  all  that  do 
wickedly,  shall  be  stubble ;  and  the  day  that  cometh  shall  burn  them  up,  saith  the 
Lord  of  hosts,  that  it  shall  leave  them  neither  root  nor  branch. 

WICKED  WILL  HAVE  OPPORTUNITY 

The  great  mercy  of  the  Lord,  however,  is  shown  by  the  fact  that 
he  will  withhold  his  final  judgment  from  overtaking  the  wicked  till  after 
the  Gospel  has  been  preached  to  them,  the  message  reaching  every  nation, 
kindred,  tongue  and  people.   The  responsibility  of  putting  over  the  Gos- 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


pel  message  rests  with  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
through  its  important  missionary  system. 

The  contrast  between  the  destruction  of  the  wicked  and  the  salva- 
tion of  the  righteous  is  set  forth  in  impressive  language  in  Section  133 
also.  Now,  listen,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  these  wonderful  words 
of  the  Lord : 

And  now  the  year  of  my  redeemed  is  come ;  and  they  shall  mention  the  loving 
kindness  of  their  Lord,  and  all  that  he  has  bestowed  upon  them  according  to  his 
goodness,  and  according  to  his  loving  kindness,  forever  and  ever. 

In  all  their  afflictions  he  was  afflicted.  And  the  angel  of  his  presence  saved 
them ;  and  in  his  love,  and  in  his  pity,  he  redeemed  them,  and  bore  them,  and 
carried  them  all  the  days  of  old. 

Yea,  and  Enoch  also,  and  they  who  were  with  him ;  the  prophets  who  were 
before  him ;  and  Noah  also,  and  they  who  were  before  him ;  and  Moses  also,  and, 
they  who  were  before  him ; 

And  from  Moses  to  Elijah,  and  from  Elijah  to  John,  who  were  with  Christ 
in  his  resurrection,  and  the  holy  apostles,  with  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  shall 
be  in  the  presence  of  the  Lamb. 

And  the  graves  of  the  saints  shall  be  opened ;  and  they  shall  come  forth  and 
stand  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Lamb,  when  he  shall  stand  upon  Mount  Zion,  and 
upon  the  holy  city,  the  New  Jerusalem ;  and  they  shall  sing  the  song  of  the  Lamb, 
day  and  night  forever  and  ever. 

And  for  this  cause,  that  men  might  be  made  partakers  of  the  glories  which 
were  to  be  revealed,  the  Lord  sent  forth  the  fulness  of  his  gospel,  his  everlasting 
covenant,  reasoning  in  plainness  and  simplicity. 

And  then  this  further: 

For  since  the  beginning  of  the  world  have  not  men  heard  nor  perceived  by  the 
ear,  neither  hath  any  eye  seen,  O  God,  besides  thee,  how  great  things  thou  hast 
prepared  for  him  that  waiteth  for  thee. 

THE  TWO  ROADS 

It  will  be  seen,  from  the  foregoing  impressive  and  stirring  words 
of  the  revelation  given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  in  the  great  scheme 
of  life  there  are  two  roads  to  travel,  and  it  is  the  privilege  of  every  human 
soul  to  determine,  under  the  God-given  right  of  his  free  agency,  which 
road  he  will  elect  to  follow.  If  he  chooses  the  road  of  wickedness  it  will 
lead  him  down  to  certain  destruction.  If  he  chooses  the  road  of  right- 
eousness it  will  lead  him  up  to  everlasting  life  in  a  kingdom  of  glory. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  Latter-day  Saints,  you  have  elected  to  follow 
the  road  of  righteousness.  So  continue,  but  remember  this :  "The  race  is 
not  to  the  swift,  nor  the  battle  to  the  strong,  but  to  him  that  endureth 
to  the  end." 

CHANGES  IN  PRESIDING  COUNCILS 

Within  three  and  one-half  years,  as  was  mentioned  in  one  of  yes- 
terday's meetings,  some  nine  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
have  gone  hence.  Death  came  and  took  them.  There  were  two  mem- 
bers of  the  First  Presidency,  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and  President 
Charles  W.  Nibley.  There  were  two  members  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  Brother  Orson  F.  Whitney  and  Brother  James  E.  Talmage. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


103 


There  was  the  Patriarch,  Brother  Hyrum  G.  Smith ;  and  four  members 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  Brother  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Brother  Joseph 
W.  McMurrin,  Brother  B.  H.  Roberts,  and  last  week,  Brother  Charles 
H.  Hart.  These  were  great  and  good  men.  They  were  valiant  for  the 
testimony  of  Jesus.  They  did  a  good  work  and  kept  the  faith,  and  thus 
it  was  that  they  followed  the  road  to  righteousness.  They  will  come 
forth  in  the  morning  of  the  first  resurrection  and  enter  into  immortality 
and  eternal  life. 

Now  the  gap  that  has  been  made  by  death  in  the  ranks  of  these 
leading  quorums  has  been  closed.  We  will  greatly  miss  Presidents 
Ivins  and  Nibley  and  these  brethren  of  the  First  Council  who  were  strong 
in  testimony  and  wise  in  exhortation.  Others  have  come  to  take  their 
place,  and  it  must  be  a  satisfaction  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  to  the 
Church  generally,  that  there  is  now  no  rent,  no  gap  in  these  higher  coun- 
cils of  the  Church. 

Brother  David  O.  McKay  has  gone  from  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
and  is  now  sustained  as  Second  Counselor  in  the  quorum  of  the  First 
Presidency.  He  is  a  man  that  we  have  truly  loved.  He  has  had  our  ut- 
most confidence.  As  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  he  accom- 
plished a  great  and  a  good  work  that  will  follow  him  throughout  life 
and  throughout  all  eternity. 

BEARS  TESTIMONY 

In  conclusion  permit  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  bear  my 
testimony.  I  love  the  Lord  God  because  I  can  comprehend  him,  because 
I  know  that  he  has  a  body,  parts  and  passions,  and  is  in  the  form  of 
man.  I  love  him  because  of  the  glorious  attributes  of  his  character,  and, 
thus  loving  him,  I  feel  that  I  can  approach  him,  can  worship  him  ac- 
ceptably and  intelligently.  I  love  Jesus  Christ  because  he  is  the  Son  of 
the  living  God  and  is  in  the  likeness  of  his  Father.  I  can  comprehend 
that.  I  love  him  particularly  for  the  great  atonement  that  he  wrought 
out  through  the  shedding  of  his  precious  blood.  He  is  your  Savior 
and  he  is  my  Savior.  I  love  Joseph  Smith  because  he  was  and  is  a  true 
prophet  of  God,  who  stands  at  the  head  of  this  great  last  dispensation. 
I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God  and  that  it  will  never  be  overthrown. 

I  pray  God  the  Eternal  Father  to  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints,  to 
bless  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and  the  Twelve  and  the  First  Coun- 
cil of  Seventy,  to  bless  all  the  leaders  of  the  Church  down  through  the 
various  ranks  of  the  Priesthood.  This  I  do  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  PRESIDENT  IVINS 

The  Apostle  Paul  revealed  the  secret  of  the  grandeur  of  his  life  when 
he  said :   "Yet  not  I,  but  Christ  liveth  in  me."    President  Anthony  W. 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Ivins  with  equal  truth  could  bear  the  same  testimony.  We  who  have 
listened  to  the  counsel  and  the  words  of  wisdom  that  flowed  from  that 
great  man's  heart  have  felt  that  we  were  in  the  presence  of  the  spirit  of 
Christ. 

His  life  was  gentle,  and  the  elements 
So  mixed  in  him,  that  nature  might  stand  up 
And  say  to  all  the  world,  "This  was  a  man!" 

All  that  has  been  said  of  the  late  President  Charles  H.  Hart  and 
Judge  Franklin  S.  Richards  I  indorse  with  all  my  heart. 

INSPIRED  APPOINTMENTS 

President  David  O.  McKay  has  been  elevated  to  the  high  position 
of  second  counselor  in  the  First  Presidency.  His  remarkable  training 
in  the  Church  indicates  "there's  a  divinity  that  shapes  our  ends."  One  of 
the  best  things  that  can  be  said  about  him  is  that  his  religion  made  him. 
David  O.  McKay  is  a  chivalrous  Christian  gentleman. 

When  I  think  of  the  selection  of  President  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  to 
the  office  of  an  Apostle,  the  words  of  the  Lord  come  to  me :  "Behold  an 
Israelite  indeed  in  whom  is  no  guile."  I  have  labored  with  this  fine  man 
in  the  mission  field.  I  know  his  worth.  His  aim  in  life,  wherever  he  is, 
is  to  work  for  the  glory  of  God.  And  let  me  say  in  public  what  is  in 
my  heart,  that  President  Grant  was  certainly  inspired  in  appointing  these 
men,  and  also  in  appointing  that  good  and  able  man,  President  LeGrand 
Richards,  to  succeed  me  as  President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission. 

THE  VALUE  OF  THE  SCRIPTURES 

The  Lord  said :  "Search  the  scriptures,  for  they  are  they  which 
testify  of  me."  In  some  of  the  current  literature  there  is  manifested  a 
spirit  to  make  light  of,  belittle  and  even  ridicule  the  holy  scriptures.  The 
Bible  is  undervalued.  Slurs  are  cast  upon  the  inspiration  of  the  word 
of  God.  But  it  is  heartening  to  know  that  the  eclipse  of  faith  is  not  total. 
The  people  generally  are  not  underestimating  or  undervaluing  the  scrip- 
tures— those  true  riches  given  to  mankind.  God  has  not  left  himself 
without  witness. 

The  British  Museum  recently  purchased  for  over  half  a  million 
dollars  a  fourth  century  manuscript  of  the  Bible,  one  of  the  only  two  of 
that  era  known  to  exist.  This  is  the  greatest  price  ever  paid  for  a  book. 
It  is  one  of  the  most  notable  events  of  history.  The  purchase  of  this 
precious  biblical  treasure  shows  a  rare  sense  of  value  that  the  English 
people  place  on  the  Bible.  It  is  a  never-dying  book.  It  is  read  by  more 
people  every  year.  Books  may  come  and  books  may  go,  but  the  Bible 
goes  on  forever. 

ORIGIN  OF  ANESTHETICS 

Dr.  Crawford  W.  Long,  of  Georgia,  was  the  first  man  in  history,  as 
far  as  known,  to  make  use  of  the  anesthetic  in  ether.  He  was  one  of 
Georgia's  most  distinguished  citizens  and  one  of  the  world's  greatest 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


105 


benefactors.  The  idea  of  producing  insensibility  to  pain  by  surgical 
anesthesia  by  the  inhalation  of  ether  was  first  put  into  practice  by  this 
physician  March  30,  1842. 

In  Statuary  Hall,  beneath  the  great  dome  of  the  Capitol  in  Wash- 
ington, stands  the  statue  of  Dr.  Long.  On  the  base  of  it  a  quotation  from 
the  reverent  physician  reads  as  follows :  "I  regard  my  profession  as 
a  ministry  from  God." 

In  Genesis  2  :21  we  read  that  "The  Lord  God  caused  a  deep  sleep  to 
fall  upon  Adam  and  he  slept :  and  he  took  one  of  his  ribs  and  closed  up  the 
flesh  instead  thereof."  A  skeptic  compared  this  verse  and  the  succeeding 
one  to  a  fairy  tale,  but  Dr.  Crawford  W.  Long  declared  that  it  was  while 
reading  this  very  passage  in  Genesis  that  the  idea  of  the  anesthetic  ether 
occurred  to  him.  Could  such  a  boon  to  humanity  come  from  a  fairy 
tale  ? 

THE  SAVIORS  SPOKEN  WORD 

Dr.  John  Watson  in  "The  Life  of  the  Master"  says  :  "Were  a  parch- 
ment discovered  in  an  Egyptian  mound,  six  inches  square,  containing 
fifty  words  which  were  certainly  spoken  by  Jesus,  this  utterance  would 
count  more  than  all  the  books  which  have  been  published  since  the  first 
century."  In  fulfilment  of  the  prophecy  of  Isaiah  and  also  other  proph- 
ets, the  ancient  record  of  nations  long  since  dead,  who  dwelt  on  this  the 
American  continent,  was  taken  from  the  hill  Cumorah  by  angelic  direc- 
tion Sept.  22,  1827.  The  contents  of  this,  record  were  translated  by  the 
prophet  Joseph  Smith  by  the  power  of  God  and  the  aid  of  the  Urim  and 
Thummim,  and  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  the  fruit  of  this  translation.  The 
history  of  the  men  and  women  on  this  continent  ages  ago  was  shrouded 
in  seemingly  impenetrable  darkness,  but  God  said:  "Let  there  be  light," 
and  there  was  light. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  contains  more  than  fifty  words  which  were 
certainly  spoken  by  the  resurrected  Lord,  for  after  his  ascension  into 
heaven  he  appeared  to  his  people  on  this  continent  and  gave  them  the 
true  points  of  his  doctrine.  He  established  his  Church  on  American 
soil  and  placed  within  the  Church  organization  prophets,  apostles,  pas- 
tors, teachers,  etc.  He  brought  peace  to  the  laboring  conscience,  eye- 
sight to  the  blind,  and  granted  the  prisoners  of  sin  sweet  relief  through 
repentance.  The  Redeemer  healed  the  sick.  He  restored  unto  the 
people  the  joy  of  his  salvation  and  blessed  them  with  the  precious  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  most  surely  believe,  and  know  for  a  certainty 
that  the  Book  of  Mormon  contains  words  certainly  spoken  by  the  Son 
of  God. 

If  any  man  will  do  the  will  of  the  Father  he  shall  know  that  the 
Book  of  Mormon  is  true.  Moroni  gives  this  promise  to  all  men :  "And 
if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ, 
he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth 
of  all  things." 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


DIVINITY  OF  CHRIST  APPARENT 

When  men  speak  disparagingly  of  the  divinity  of  Christ  there  is  a 
great  deal  of  affectation  in  what  they  say,  because  they  cannot  help  but 
see  the  nobility,  godliness  and  sacredness  of  the  Savior's  life.  Sooner 
or  later  these  scoffers  will  come  to  themselves.  Without  Jesus  Christ 
there  would  be  no  hospitals,  paintings,  sculpture,  or  any  of  the  arts 
or  real  science.  For  all  those  who  have  contributed  to  the  culture,  happi- 
ness and  instruction  of  mankind  have  received  their  inspiration  from 
the  Redeemer.  And  when  modernists  have  sought  to  bury  the  divine 
Christ  beneath  a  mountain  of  modernistic  chaff,  behold,  the  cry  is  heard 
throughout  the  land  "Christ  is  risen." 

Only  a  few  months  ago  many  of  the  leading  journals  in  the  world 
paid  a  fabulous  price  for  the  right  to  publish  "The  Life  Of  Our  Lord," 
by  the  celebrated  Charles  Dickens.  God  has  not  and  never  will  leave 
himself  without  witness.  Dust  storms  of  criticism  may  arise  and  meteors 
may  fall  about  us,  but  the  grand  constellations  in  God's  heavens,  display- 
ing his  power,  still  burn  there,  a  perpetual  witness  to  every  soul  beneath 
the  spangled  heavens  that  Jesus  is  divine.  In  the  lives  of  men  whom  we 
love  for  their  uprightness,  the  ideals  of  the  Savior  are  finding  expression. 
More  men  and  women,  and  they  would  be  the  best  of  Adam's  race,  would 
die  for  the  Son  of  God,  who  gave  all  for  us,  than  for  any  other  cause 
under  the  spacious  firmament. 

RAYS  OF  LIGHT  HARNESSED 

In  Job  38 :32,  33,  we  read :  "Canst  thou  guide  Arcturus  with  his 
sons?"  Arcturus  is  a  far-off  star,  of  the  first  magnitude,  one  of  the 
brightest  in  the  entire  heavens.  It  supplied  the  current  to  start  the  illu- 
mination of  the  grounds  of  the  Century  of  Progress  Exposition.  Well, 
over  a  year  ago  science  accepted  this  God-given  challenge, — and  through- 
out the  scriptures  God  is  challenging  science  to  come  up  higher  and  devise 
ways  and  means  for  the  amelioration  of  the  state  of  mankind.  Science, 
true  science,  is  nobly  responding  to  this  challenge. 

More  than  forty  years  ago,  according  to  astronomers,  Arcturus  threw 
off  a  beam  of  light  which  has  been  on  its  way  ever  since,  arriving  in  time 
to  start  the  World's  Fair  in  Chicago.  Think  of  that  light  beam  which 
has  been  traveling  through  millions  of  miles  of  space  for  the  last  forty 
years.  Scientists,  so  we  are  told,  constructed  "delicate  electrical  mechan- 
isms and  installed  them  in  astronomical  observatories  which  transformed 
the  beam  of  light  into  current  to  be  transmitted  over  special  wires  to 
Chicago  to  throw  the  master  switch  and  illuminate  the  grounds  of  the 
Century  of  Progress  Exposition."  Thus  scientists  harnessed  and  used 
this  ray  of  light,  one  of  the  sons  of  Arcturus,  to  put  the  grounds  of  the 
World's  Fair  in  a  blaze  of  glory.   The  works  of  God  are  wonderful. 

RAYS  OF  LIVING  LIGHT 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  rays  of  living  light 
have  come  down  out  of  heaven — rays  of  pre-existence,  which  throw  a 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


107 


flood  of  light  upon  the  origin  of  mankind ;  rays  of  a  glorious  resurrec- 
tion, and  the  eternity  of  the  marriage  covenant,  which  destroy  the  sting 
of  death  and  the  victory  of  the  grave.  Moreover,  there  have  come  the 
rays  of  faith  in  the  true  and  living  God  and  his  Son ;  repentance,  which 
means  a  change  of  heart ;  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of 
sins,  which  baptism  foreshadows  the  glorious  truth  that  we  shall  rise  from 
the  dead  "in  the  likeness  of  his  resurrection",  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  which  angels  enjoy,  which  enables  us  to  say  "so  nigh  is  grandeur  to 
our  dust,  so  near  to  God  is  man."  Angels  speak  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

The  Almighty  created  an  instrument  in  the  world  to  receive  these 
rays  of  living  light,  and  Joseph  Smith  was  the  foreordained  instrument 
placed  on  the  earth  by  divine  wisdom  to  receive  this  glorious  light. 
Through  the  Priesthood,  by  the  preaching  of  the  plan  of  salvation,  these 
beams  of  light  have  been  transmitted  to  the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth 
and  the  hearts  of  men  and  women  are  ablaze  with  the  light  of  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel. 

The  mission  of  the  Church  is  to  prepare  the  world  for  the  second 
coming  of  the  Son  of  God.  With  countless  millions  who,  with  stream- 
ing eyes,  are  praying  for  his  glorious  advent,  I  pray:  "Surely  I  come 
quickly.    Even  so,  come,  Lord  Jesus."  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Great  is  Jehovah,"  solo  by  Sister 
Margaret  Hewlett. 

Elder  Don  B.  Colton,  President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

THIRD  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock  Sunday 
afternoon,  October  7. 

Once  more  the  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity,  and  thou- 
sands who  could  not  find  accommodation  in  that  building  assembled  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  listened 
to  the  Conference  proceedings  as  they  were  broadcast  by  radio  from 
the  Tabernacle. 

The  opening  number  was  a  sacred  solo,  "The  Publican,"  by  Sister 
Jessie  Williams. 

Elder  Elias  S.  Woodruff,  President  of  the  Western  States  Mission, 
offered  the  invocation. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  four  years  ago  since  Evan  Stephens  became  sick  while  at  con- 
ference, returned  to  his  home,  and  passed  away.  We  will  now  sing  his 
anthem,  "Let  the  Mountains  shout  for  joy." 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  feel  that  we  owe  a  deep  debt  of  gratitude  to  Evan  Stephens, 
George  Careless,  Joseph  J.  Daynes,  and  many  others,  for  the  splendid 
music  they  have  prepared  for  our  hymns  and  our  anthems. 

The  choir  then  sang  the  anthem,  "Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy." 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  desire  at  the  beginning  to  express  my  delight  in  the  selection  of  the 
men  who  have  been  chosen  to  fill  the  vacancies  occasioned  by  the  death 
of  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  of  the  First  Presidency,  and  Brother 
Charles  H.  Hart,  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  also  in  the  filling 
of  the  vacancies  occasioned  by  the  promotion  of  our  brethren  in  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  and  in  the  First  Presidency.  I  love  these  men,  as 
I  do  all  of,  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  I  have  always  sus- 
tained them ;  I  have  personally  known  them  for  many  years. 

Two  of  the  brethren  who  have  been  thus  chosen  have  been,  my  inti- 
mate missionary  associates ;  Elder  David  O.  McKay  and  Elder  Alonzo 
A.  Hinckley  were  fellow  missionaries  with  me  in  the  European  Mission. 
I  rejoice  in  the  honor  that  has  come  to  them  and  feel  in  my  heart  to 
uphold  and  sustain  them,  and  ask  God's  blessing  upon  them. 

At  the  opening  of  this  morning's  session  of  the  conference  the 
choir  sang :  "An  Angel  from  on  High,"  and  that  led  me  to  thinking 
of  the  mission  of  the  angel  Moroni,  and  of  the  scriptures  which  foretold 
his  coming;  when  to  John,  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos,  the  visions  of  the 
future  were  opened  unto  his  mind,  as  expressed  in  this  quotation  from 
Rev.  14  \6,7: 

And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  h'aving  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come;  and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters. 

As  I  contemplated  this  oft-repeated  passage  of  scripture,  many 
thoughts  came  into  my  mind. 

I  have  just  been  attending  the  German  conference  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  and  as  I  realized  that  these  Swiss  and  German  Saints,  whom  I  was 
addressing  in  their  own  language,  had  been  gathered  here  in  response 
to  the  message  of  that  "Angel  from  on  high,"  I  gave  expression,  in  part, 
to  these  thoughts ;  but  I  desire  to  still  further  give  expression,  during 
the  few  moments  that  I  have  before  me,  to  the  thoughts  that  came 
to  me  in  contemplating  that  wonderful  message  to  the  world. 

First  of  all,  it  is  the  promulgation  of  this  Gospel,  that  it  is  to  go  to  all 
nations,  kindreds,  tongues  and  peoples  that  dwell  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth.  This  Gospel  message — not  a  new  Gospel,  but  the  everlasting 
Gospel,  the  Gospel  that  was  proclaimed  from  the  very  beginning  of  the 
world  unto  the  children  of  men — that  same  everlasting  Gospel  must 
be  carried  to  all  of  the  various  nations  of  this  earth. 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


109 


That  is  some  work  to  accomplish,  the  fulfilment  of  that  prophecy, 
which  prophecy  must  be  fulfilled  by  carrying  the  Gospel  to  every  nation. 
We  are  told  in  a  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  (Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  Sec.  90:11)  that  the  time  is  to  come  when  every 
man  shall  hear  the  fulness  of  this  Gospel  in  his  own  language  and  in 
his  own  tongue.  Think  of  the  immensity  of  that  work,  what  a  prodigi- 
ous undertaking  it  is  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  all  the  various  nations,  and 
that  too  in  their  own  language. 

We  have  made  some  headway,  but  there  are  many  nations  that 
have  not  heard  the  word  of  the  Lord,  the  Gospel  in  its  fulness  and  purity 
as  it  has  been  restored  in  this  day  and  age  by  the  coming  of  that  mighty 
angel  which  John  the  Revelator  saw  flying  in  the  midst  of  heaven. 

There  is  one  country  alone  with  its  163,000,000  people  speaking  a 
foreign  tongue,  and  probably  many  dialects  of  that  tongue.  The  Gospel 
in  its  purity  has  not  been  preached  to  them.  The  scriptures  have  not 
been  translated — those  that  were  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  many  others  in  defense  of  the  faith  and  explain- 
ing the  Gospel  in  its  purity  have  not  been  brought  to  the  understanding 
of  that  people.  Many  of  the  children  of  Israel  are  there  and  must  hear 
the  Gospel  and  be  gathered  into  the  fold.  And  there  are  also  other 
nations  to  whom  likewise  this  Gospel  must  be|  preached.  I  merely  men- 
tion this  as  an  illustration  of  the  prodigious  work  that  lies  before  us  in 
carrying  the  Gospel  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people. 

We  must  not  forget  that  when  it  first  came  to  us  it  came  engraven 
upon  golden  plates  uncovered  by  the  Angel  Moroni,  for : 

Lo !  in  Cumorah's  lonely  hill 
A  sacred  record  lies  concealed 

This  record,  containing  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  was 
engraven  upon  the  plates  of  gold  in  a  foreign  language,  which  no  one  un- 
derstood but  which  nevertheless  was  translated  by  Joseph  Smith,  through 
the  gift  and  power  of  God,  into  the  English  language.  How  fortunate 
for  us  that  we  were  born  in  a  country  where  the  English  language  is 
spoken  and  that  we  have  the  privilege  of  hearing  it  in  "our  own  tongue, 
in  our  own  language."  Well  this  same  privilege  must  come  to  "every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people"  before  the  words  of  that  prophecy 
can  be  fulfilled.  By  whom  shall  this  Gospel  message  be  delivered  to  the 
nations  ?  Surely  by  those  to  whom  it  has  been  committed — by  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints. — None  others.  And  for  this  we  must  prepare  ourselves 
by  learning  their  languages  and  translating  into  them  the  written  word. 
And  what  is  the  message  we  have  to  bear?  We  must  declare  the 
restoration  of  that  everlasting  Gospel  through  the  coming  of  holy  beings 
from  the  realms  above — declare  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  has 
again  been  set  up  on  the  earth  and  has  been  endowed  with  power  from  on 
high — even  the  power  of  the  Preisthood,  which  gives  to  men  the  authority 
to  administer  the  saving  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

There  are  two  methods  by  which  the  Lord  endeavors  to  save  his 
people  and  bring  them  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  One  of  these  methods 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  based  upon  fear  and  the  other  upon  love.  Both  are  good  and  the  Lord 
employs  them  both. 

There  is  much  wickedness  in  the  world,  for  "the  earth  is  denied  un- 
der the  inhabitants  thereof,"  and  the  warning  voice  must  be  given: 
"Fear  God  and  give  glory  to  him  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come," 
calling  upon  all  men  to  repent  and  be  baptized  and  be  warned  that  the 
time  is  drawing  near  when  the  judgments  of  the  Almighty  shall  be 
poured  out  upon  the  nations,  "when  sin  and  iniquity  shall  be  banished 
from  the  face  of  the  earth,  and  righteousness  shall  predominate  and 
cover  the  earth,  even  as  the  waters  cover  the  mighty  deep."  That  is  the 
warning  that  goes  out.  It  is  based  upon  fear,  it  is  wholesome  fear, 
and  all  the  nations  who  give  heed  and  listen  to  that  everlasting  Gospel 
rendering  obedience  to  it,  shall  escape  the  judgments. 

But  there  is  still  another  method  given  which  is  based  upon  love. 
First  let  me  say  of  the  wickedness — and  there  is  much  of  it  in  the  world — 
some  people  have  said,  and  tried  to  shift  the  responsibility  upon  nature, 
that  men  are  by  nature  sensual  and  devilish.  I  wish  to  challenge  that 
statement.  I  do  not  believe  a  word  of  it.  It  is  not  true ;  we  are  not  by 
nature  sensual  or  devilish.  We  are  the  children  of  God,  and  we  have 
been  formed  and  fashioned  in  his  image — not  only  in  his  bodily  image, 
but  have  been  endowed  with  his  divine  attributes.  We  are  by  nature 
then  the  children  of  God,  divine,  not  sensual  and  devilish. 

We  read  an  explanation  of  these  things  in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  wherein  the  statement  is  made  that  in  the  beginning  we  were 
created  in  the  image  of  God,  and  that  God  gave  commandments  unto  the 
children  of  men,  but  through  transgression  of  those  holy  commandments, 
men  became  devilish  and  sensual.    (Doc.  and  Cov.,  20:18,  19,  20.) 

But  there  is  a  difference  in  saying  that  men  have  become  sensual 
and  devilish,  and  saying  that  they  are  by  nature  so.  They  are  not ;  they 
are  God-like,  formed  in  his  image,  endowed  with  his  divine  attributes. 
The  devil  is  exercising  influence  over  the  children  of  men,  and  the  Lord 
has  given  us  our  free  agency  and  freedom  of  will  to  think,  to  determine, 
and  to  do  the  thing  that  we  will.  Some  have  made  a  mistake  by  imagin- 
ing that  the  power  to  do  these  things  is  salvation.  Nothing  of  the  kind — 
that  is  free  agency. 

We  have  the  privilege  of  choosing.  If  we  choose  to  do  right, 
it  will  lead  to  our  salvation,  very  true.  But.,  if  we  exercise  that  freedom 
of  will  and  that  free  agency  in  doing  evil  it  will  just  as  surely  lead  to  our 
damnation. 

But  we  are  not  by  nature  vile.  I  know  that  many  people  in  the 
world  justify  themselves  by  blaming  it  on  to  their  nature.  Poets  have 
written  so ;  even  the  poet  Byron  in  summing  up  the  character  of  men, 
after  paying  his  tribute  to  his  Newfoundland  dog,  pays,  a  very  question- 
able compliment  to  mankind,  in  an  epitaph  he  wrote  on  that  dog's  tomb- 
stone.   Said  he : 

Oh  man !  thou  feeble  tenant  of  an  hour, 
Debased  by  slavery,  or  corrupt  by  power, 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


111 


Who  knows  thee  well  must  quit  thee  with  disgust, 

Degraded  mass  of  animated  dust ! 

Thy  love  is  lust,  thy  friendship  all  a  cheat, 

Thy  smiles  hypocrisy,  thy  words  deceit ! 

By  nature  vile,  ennobled  but  by  name, 

Each  kindred  brute  might  bid  thee  blush  for  shame. 

I  think  that  is  a  pretty  good  explanation  of  the  present  condition  of 
the  world,  to  a  very  large  extent.  But  it  does  not  apply  to  all.  There  is 
one  statement  in  it  that  I  take  exception  to,  that  is :  "By  nature  vile."  It 
is  not  so.  Men  became  vile  by  transgressing  the  laws,  therefore  they 
should  repent  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  them  that  they  might  not  be 
overtaken  by  the  judgments  of  God. 

The  other  method  is  based  on  love.  How  can  we  look  out  into 
this  natural  world  and  behold  the  beauties  of  nature,  how  can  we  look 
into  the  starry  heavens,  how  can  we  behold  the  blazing  sun  at  noonday 
without  being  impressed  with  the  divinity  of  God's  work?  How  can 
we  contemplate  those  things  without  being  filled  with  love  for  God 
and  worship  him  who  made  the  heavens  and  the  earth  and  the  sea  and 
the  fountains  of  water,  who  made  the  stars  and  the  sun.  He  is  in  the 
sun  and  is  the  light  of  the  sun,  and  is  the  power  thereof  by  which  it  was 
made.  He  is  in  the  stars  and  is  the  light  of  the  stars,  andi  the  power 
by  which  they  were  made.  Worship  him ;  love  him  with  all  your  heart. 
Adore  him ;  think  of  him  grandly  as  the  Creator  of  the  heavens  and 
earth  and  all  that  in  them  are.  And  worship  him  who  made  the  sea  and 
the  fountains  of  water.  How  can  we  look  upon  them  without  being 
overwhelmed  with  the  goodness  of  God  unto  us,  for  he  made  the  sea 
and  the  fountains  of  water.  We  see  the  water  come  trickling  down 
the  mountainside  into  the  canyon  creeks,  and  from  the  creeks  into  the 
rivers,  and  from  the  rivers  to  the  sea ;  there  to  be  caught  up  through 
evaporation  into  the  clouds  and  wafted  by  the  winds  back  to  the  moun- 
tain tops  to  begin  its  course  anew.  We  may  divert  those  streams  from 
their  natural  channels  onto  our  arid  lands  and  produce  an  abundant 
harvest,  or  we  may  harness  them  and  propel  the  machinery  of  the 
world,  illuminate  our  streets,  our  public  buildings  and  our  homes;  but 
the  water  thus  diverted  seeps  back  into  its  natural  channels,  in  its  down- 
ward course  to  the  sea  and  back  to  the  mountains,  to  feed  the  ever- 
flowing  fountains  of  water.  Surely  in  these  times  of  drouth  we  ought 
to  appreciate  the  value  of  the  sea  and  fountains  of  water. 

Therefore,  worship  him  in  spirit  and  in  truth,  and  then  in  the 
abundance  of  your  love  for  God,  keep  his  commandments,  and  he  will 
surely  lead  you,  not  only  to  escape  the  judgments  which  are  to  come,  but 
lead  you  into  the  celestial  kingdom,  to  come  forth  in  the  resurrec- 
tion of  the  dead,  clothed  upon  with  immortality  and  eternal  life.  These 
are  the  promises  of  the  Father  to  those  who  love  the  Lord  and  who 
worship  him  in  spirit  and  in  truth. 

Then  let  us  worship  the  Lord,  keep  his  commandments,  and  so  live 
that  we  may  have  part  in  his  glorious  work  and  be  numbered  among 
those  who  shall  receive  the  crown  of  eternal  life,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

When  President  Holger  M.  Larson  spoke  yesterday  concerning 
the  work  of  the  Saints  and  missionaries  in  the  Danish  Mission,  I 
recalled  the  time  when  I  wandered  through  the  campus  and  build- 
ings of  the  University  at  Copenhagen.  Above  the  gate  of  that  great 
institution  is  an  eagle  sculptured  in  marble,  and  underneath  an 
inscription  in  Latin  which  translated  into  English  says:  "The  eagle 
is  looking  toward  the  celestial  light."  Every  student  takes  off  his 
cap  as  he  passes  through  the  gate,  on  his  way  to  the  lecture  hall, 
and  he  keeps  in  mind  for  the  day  that  lovely  .thought :  "We  will 
keep  our  eyes  toward  the  celestial  light."  What  a  beautiful  ideal 
for  the  youth. 

On  the  17th  of  September,  1887,  a  great  celebration  was  held 
in  front  of  Independence  Hall  in  Philadelphia  in  honor  of  the  100th 
anniversary  of  the  adpotion  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 
The  President  of  the  United  States,  Grover  Cleveland,  and  other 
distinguished  guests  were  present  on  that  occasion.  A  chorus  of  one 
thousand  people  rendered  the  beautiful  poem  of  the  German  poet  Schil- 
ler, entitled  "An  Appeal  to  Truth,"  which  had  been  put  to  music  by 
Mendelssohn.  As  they  sang  the  lines  of  the  poem:  "Upon  the  divine 
truth  of  the  freedom  of  man  and  the  knowledge  of  God,  does  our  civiliza- 
tion stand,"  the  guests  stood  with  bowed  heads  in  gratitude  for  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord.  Then  President  Cleveland  arose  and  among  other 
things  said :  "When  we  look  down  one  hundred  years  and  see  the  origin 
of  our  Constitution,  when  we  contemplate  all  its  trials  and  triumphs,  when 
(ve  realize  how  completely  the  principles  upon  which  it  is  based  have 
met  every  national  need  and  every  national  peril,  how  devoutly 
should  we  say  with  Franklin,  'God  governs  in  the  affairs  of  men,' 
and  how  solemn  should  be  the  thought  that  to  us  is  delivered  this 
ark  of  the  people's  covenant  and  to  us  is  given  the  duty  to  shield 
it  from  impious  hands  .  .  .  Another  centennial  day  will  come, 
and  millions  yet  unborn  will  inquire  concerning  our  stewardship 
and  the  safety  of  the  Constitution.  God  grant  that  they  may  find  it 
unimpaired." 

Today,  there  are  forces  at  work  to  undermine  this  sacred  gift 
of  our  fathers.  These  forces  are  expressed  in  acts  and  words  of 
disrespect  for  law,  order,  and  authority.  Lord  Macaulay  feared  for 
our  democratic  institutions,  and  once  expressed  the  thought  that 
institutions  purely  democratic  "must  sooner  or  later,  destroy  liberty 
or  civilization,  or  both."  In  reply  to  this  thought  of  the  great  Eng- 
lish essayist,  we  can  only  say  that  we  hope  that  the  citizens  of  our 
great  republic  will  have  from  age  to  age  a  finer  reverence  and 
greater  love  for  the  principles  of  human  rights  which  are  set  forth 
in  the  Constitution  of  our  country. 

When  our  fathers  wrote  the  Declaration  of  Independence  and 
gave  us  the  divine  thought :  "We  hold  these  truths  to  be  self-evi- 
dent, that  all  men  are  created  equal ;  that  they  are  endowed  by 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


113 


their  Creator  with  certain  inalienable  rights ;  that  among  these  are 
life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness,"  we  must  ever  remember 
that  there  are  no  rights  that  are  not  duties.  The  Declaration  of 
Independence  was  not  justified  if  it  was  not  obligatory.  So  this 
is  true  with  the  still  greater  document  of  government,  the  Consti- 
tution of  the  United  States.  "There  are  no  rights  that  are  not 
duties." 

The  Prophet  Isaiah  once  wrote:  "Look  unto  the  rock  whence 
ye  are  hewn,"  and  the  ancient  Psalmist  of  Zion  warned  us  when 
he  said:  "Remove  not  the  ancient  land-mark,  which  thy  fathers 
have  set."  I  believe  that  the  life  of  America  depends  upon  the  re- 
ligion of  America,  and  if  this  our  government  is  to  be  preserved, 
it  will  be  because  America  is  pervaded,  inspired,  and  controlled  by 
the  spirit  of  a  faith  in  Almighty  God.  Our  country  was  settled  by 
people  imbued  by  deep  religious  convictions.  When  the  Pilgrim 
fathers  came  and  landed  at  Plymouth  Rock  in  1620,  they  drew  up 
the  Mayflower  Compact  which  in  part  reads :  "In  the  Name  of  God, 
Amen.  We  whose  names  are  written,  the  loyal  subjects  of  our 
Lord,  King  James,  by  the  Grace  of  God  King  .  .  .  having  under- 
taken for  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  advancement  of  the  Christian 
faith  .  .  ."  "In  the  name  of  God"  those  Pilgrim  fathers  brayed 
the  terrors  of  the  deep  to  plant  homes  in  America  and  to  establish 
religious  freedom.  The  Quakers  came  to  Pennsylvania,  the  Catho- 
lics to  Maryland,  and  the  Methodists  to  the  Carolinas.  James  Ogle- 
thorpe who  brought  colonists  to  Georgia  required  that  his  people 
draw  up  a  form  of  government  based  on  the  fundamentals  that  were 
given  by  God  to  Moses  on  Mount  Sinai:  the  Ten  Commandments. 
This  nation  must  naturally  be  pervaded  by  a  spiritual  life,  and  we 
have  today  no  more  important  duty  than  to  inspire  the  youth  with 
a  true  religious  spirit.  When  the  First  Continental  Congress  met 
in  Carpenters'  Hall  in  Philadelphia  in  September,  1774,  Dr.  Jacob 
Duche  was  called  in  to  offer  prayers,  and  as  he  prayed,  John  Adams 
of  Massachusetts  tells  us  that  tears  "gushed  into  the  eyes  of  all 
present."   This  prayer  I  want  to  quote  to  you  in  full : 

O  Lord  our  Heavenly  Father,  high  and  mighty  King  of  Kings,  Lord  of 
Lords,  who  dost  from  Thy  throne  behold  all  the  dwellers  upon  the  earth, 
and  reignest  with  power  supreme  and  uncontrolled  over  all  kingdoms,  em- 
pires and  governments,  look  down  in  mercy,  we  beseech  Thee,  upon  these 
American  States  who  have  fled  to  Thee  from  the  rod  of  the  oppressor  and 
thrown  themselves  upon  Thy  gracious  protection,  desiring  to  be  henceforth 
dependent  only  upon  Thee.  ,  ,      ,      •  ,  f       •  <r„ 

To  Thee  have  they  appealed  for  the  righteousness  of  their  cause,  lo 
Thee  do  they  now  look  up  for  that  countenance  and  support  which  Thou 
alone  canst  give.  Take  them,  therefore,  Heavenly  Father,  under  Thy  nurtur- 
ing care  Give  them  wisdom  in  council  and  valor  in  the  field.  Defeat  the 
malicious  designs  of  our  cruel  adversaries.  Convince  them  of  the  unrighteous- 
ness of  their  cause,  and  if  they  still  persist  in  their  sanguinary  purpose,  U 
let  the  voice  of  Thine  own  unerring  justice,  sounding  m  their  hearts,  con- 
strain them  to  drop  their  weapons  of  war  from  their  unnerved  hands  in  the 
dav  of  battle.  ,  ,     ~        .,  f 

Be  Thou  present  O  Lord  of  Wisdom,  and  direct  the  Council  of  the 
honorable  Assembly.    Enable  them  to  settle  things  upon  the  best  and  surest 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


foundation,  that  the  scene  of  blood  may  speedily  be  closed;  that^  order, 
harmony  and  peace  may  effectually  be  restored,  and  truth  and  justice,  re- 
ligion and  piety,  prevail  and  flourish  amongst  Thy  people. 

Preserve  the  health  of  their  bodies,  the  vigor  of  their  minds.  Shower 
down  upon  them  and  the  millions  they  here  represent,  such  temporal  bless- 
ings as  Thou  seest  expedient  for  them  in  this  world  and  crown  them  with 
everlasting  glory  in  the  world  to  come.  All  this  we  ask  in  the  name  and 
through  the  merits  of  Jesus  Christ,  Thy  Son,  our  Saviour.  Amen. 

We  are  right  in  saying  that  our  government  had  its  beginning 
with  a  people  who  had  faith  in  God  and  his  work.  After  the  Ameri- 
can Revolution,  people  began  to  cross  the  mountains  to  the  West, 
and  after  1800  they  read  the  Bible  and  had  deep  faith  in  its  teach- 
ings. In  1830,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
organized  as  a  result  of  the  Priesthood  of  God  which  was  restored 
from  heaven  to  Joseph  Smith.  Then  came  the  march  across  the 
continent,  which  ended  in  the  settlement  of  the  far  West.  Metho- 
dists and  Presbyterians  went  to  Oregon ;  Catholic  priests  carried 
the  message  of  the  Cross  into  all  parts  of  the  northwest ;  the 
Latter-day  Saints  redeemed  the  desert  waste  of  the  Great  Basin. 
Every  one  of  the  migrations  was  inspired  by  the  belief  that  God 
and  the  message  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  must  be  taught  to 
the  Indians. 

I  believe  that  in  the  heart  of  the  average  American  there  is 
a  deep  religious  conviction.  Our  nation  has  a  religious  life  which 
must  be  maintained  in  determining  national  questions  and  con- 
trolling national  policy.  The  spirit  of  mutual  respect  and  good 
will,  of  justice  and  peace,  of  human  brotherhood,  is  the  spirit  of 
the  Christian  religion,  and  this  spirit  teaches  us  one  and  all  that 
the  object  of  political  activity  is  not  merely  to  vote  or  to  take  sides 
in  elections,  but  to  direct  our  thoughts  and  deeds  to  noble  actions 
and  Christian  principles.  For  this  reason,  we  must  educate  the 
youth  in  an  understanding  of  freedom  and  democracy ;  we  must 
teach  them  that  the  perpetuity  of  our  government  depends  on  a 
deep  conviction  of  the  reality  of  the  kingdom  of  God  and  the  spirit- 
ual quality  of  life.  We  Latter-day  Saints  believe  implicitly  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  that  in  time  it  will  be  established  upon  the 
earth  with  Christ  our  Lord  as  King.  No  more  beautiful  ideal  of 
government  can  be  known  than  this.  The  unity  of  Christianity  is 
dependent  upon  the  teachings  concerning  the  kingdom  and  the  life 
of  the  Savior — the  divine  birth  and  the  atonement ;  the  resurrec- 
tion and  the  assurance  that  Christ  our  Lord  will  come  again.  In 
this  teaching  is  envisaged  the  kingdom  of  God  which  becomes  our 
vision.  So  America  has  a  dream,  a  vision,  the  purpose  of  which  is 
to  cause  us  to  understand  the  spiritual  quality  of  life,  for  all  our 
civilization  must  be  a  spiritual  achievement.  "Look  unto  the  rock 
from  whence  ye  are  hewn,  and  remove  not  the  ancient  land-mark 
which  thy  fathers  have  set."  May  the  Lord  help  us  to  look  to  the 
rock  and  to  stand  by  the  land-marks  of  justice,  faith,  and  the 
knowledge  of  the  living  God.  May  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  be  preserved  and  sanctified  in  the  hearts  of  all  Americans.  It 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


115 


was  George  Washington  who  replied  to  a  question  as  to  whether 
or  not  the  people  would  support  the  Constitution.  "Let  us  raise 
a  standard,"  said  he,  "to  which  the  wise  and  just  can  repair ;  the 
rest  is  in  the  hand  of  God." 

May  we  live  for  the  right ;  and  do  what  we  can  to  live  nearer 
the  kingdom  of  God.  May  we  do  everything  we  can  to  preserve 
the  integrity  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  May  we 
look  toward  the  celestial  light.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  ye  moun- 
tains high." 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Jesus  said : 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  he  that  receiveth  whomsoever  I-  send  receiveth 
me;  and  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth  him  that  sent  me. 

And  again : 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  he  that  believeth  on  me,  the  works  that  I  do 
shall  he  do  also ;  and  greater  works  than  these  shall  he  do ;  because  I  go  unto  my 
Father.  *  *  *  * 

He  that  hath  my  commandments,  and  keepeth  them,  he  it  is  that  loveth  me: 
and  he  that  loveth  me  shall  be  loved  of  my  Father,  and  I  will  love  him^  and  will 
manifest  myself  to  him. 

Judas  saith  unto  him,  not  Iscariot,  Lord,  how  is  it  that  thou  wilt  manifest 
thyself  unto  us,  and  not  unto  the  world  ? 

Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  if  a  man  love  me  he  will  keep  my  words ; 
and  my  Father  will  love  him,  and  we  will  come  unto  him,  and  make  our  abode 
with  him. 

A  LESSON  FROM  A  LIFE  SERMON 

I  believe  that  the  most  powerful  sermon  any  of  us  shall  ever  preach 
will  be  the  sermon  of  our  lives.  I  should  like  to  draw  a  lesson  that  I 
feel  is  needed  just  now,  from  the  life  sermon  of  President  Anthony  W- 
Ivins.  I  recall  that  one  of  the  most  impressive  things  that  touched  my  life 
was  an  act  of  his  years  ago.  If  I  refer  to  something  that  is  personal  it 
is  but  to  teach  the  lesson  that  I  should  like  to  present  to  you. 

Years  ago,  as  a  young  man,  I  was  active  in  the  same  political  party 
to  which  President  Ivins  belonged.  From  a  convention  about  the  time 
Utah  became  a  state  an  invitation  was  sent  to  President  Ivins  to  accept 
the  nomination  as  Governor  of  the  state.  He  could  have  it  by  unanimous 
vote,  but  he  declined  it  and  turned  aside  from  that  very  inviting  offer 
full  of  promises  and  hopes,  to  accept  a  call  from  his  Church  to  break  up 
his  home  in  southern  Utah  and  go  to  Old  Mexico  and  suffer  financial  loss 
through  colonizing  in  that  very  difficult  place.    This  act  of  this  man 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


made  a  more  profound  impression  upon  my  life  than  the  act  of  any  other 
man,"  and  I  owe  to  him  today,  by  reason  of  that/  act,  most  of  what  I  am. 

AMBITIOUS  FOR  AN  EDUCATION 

That  is  the  tribute  I  want  to  pay  to  him,  because  it  was  just  shortly 
after  this  that  I  had  graduated  from  the  Brigham  Young  College  at 
Logan  and  was  planning  to  go  East  and  continue  my  work  at  Harvard, 
for  I  had  aspirations  and  hopes  to  acquire  a  higher  education.  I  found 
myself  without  funds  to  accomplish  that;  so,  having  an  offer  to  teach, 
I  accepted  it  and  taught  for  two  years.  I  thought  I  could  save  enough 
to  take  me  through  at  least  a  year  of  school. 

In  my  second  year  of  teaching  there  came  into  my  class  a  very 
charming  young  woman.  I  taught  her  that  winter,  and  she  has  been 
trying  to  teach  me  ever  since. 

AN  IMPORTANT  DECISION 

Two  weeks  before  that  school  closed  and  the  happy  event  of  our 
marriage  was  to  take  place,  I  received  a  call  from  President  Wilford 
Woodruff  to  go  with  Brothers  B.  H.  Roberts  and  George  D.  Pyper  to 
open  the  missionary  work  in  the  large  cities  of  the  United  States.  That 
was  a  crushing  blow  to  all  my  hopes  and  aspirations  as  I  had  worked  so 
long  and  planned  and  saved  to  get  the  means  to  continue  my  education. 
We  debated  the  question  but  a  short  time,  and  before  night  came  the 
answer  had  gone  back,  bidding  good-bye  to  our  hopes,  then,  of  further 
education;  and  the  means  we  had  saved,  which  would  put  us  through 
the  first  year  of  college,  we  used  on  that  mission.  It  is  true  we  got  mar- 
ried all  right,  but  she  stayed  home — the  bride  of  two  weeks.  That  was 
no  small  trial  to  me.  She  volunteered  to  teach  school  and  assist  me  in 
the  completion  of  that  mission. 

WONDERFUL  WOMEN 

I  want  to  pause  here  to  pay  tribute  to  the  wives  of  these  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  to  the  wives  of  you  stake  presidents  and 
you  bishops,  for  these  women  are  all  the  same  kind.  No  men  in  any 
part  of  the  world  have  been  blessed  with  such  wonderful  women  as  the 
wives  of  the  men  who  have  been  leading  and  directing  the  affairs  of  this 
work.  How  willing  they  have  been  to  make  their  sacrifice,  to  stand 
in  reflected  glory  and  "play  second  fiddle,"  and  let  us  go  on  while  they 
perform  the  great  service,  often  as  father  and  mother  in  the  home.  God 
bless  them  for  it. 

DISAPPOINTMENT  AND  TEMPTATION 

I  was  not  in  that  mission  long,  however,  until  the  greatest  disap- 
pointment of  my  life  came  in  the  release  from  the  particular  work  we 
were  doing,  and  an  assignment  to  become  a  traveling  missionary,  and  it 
came  at  a  time  when  I  was  alone.  I  wept  all  night  about  that,  and  the 
devil  tempted  me  to  quit  and  come  home.  But  I  thank  the  Lord  that  I 
turned  to  him  for  aid  and  help.    Before  morning  came  I  had  mastered 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


117 


my  own  spirit  and  had  written  a  letter  accepting  the  disappointment. 
It  was  then  I  found  the  song  that  I  have  been  singing  for  all  these  thirty- 
eight  years,  and  which  I  brought  into  the  literature  of  the  Church.  I 
found  it  in  a  little  book  called  "Make  His  Praise  Glorious" : 

I'll  go  where  you  want  me  to  go,  dear  Lord; 
I'll  be  what  you  want  me  to  be. 

It  was  like  a  message  from  heaven  to  me,  and  what  a  joy  it  has  brought 
to  my  life  to  try  to  live  up  to  the  sentiments  expressed  in  it. 

I  also  recall  being  impressed  when  the  call  came  to  leave  the  business 
that  I  had  built  up,  and  that  was  so  profitable,  to  go  out  to  the  North- 
west. I  suffered  financial  loss,  and  some  of  my  associates  thought  it  was 
foolish.  I  remarked  that  had  the  sacrifice  been  ten  times  as  great,  it 
would  be  no  sacrifice  for  me  to  leave  it,  because  I  owed  the  Lord  more 
than  I  could  ever  pay  him  if  I  gave  him  my  whole  life. 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  the  example  of  this  man  that  I  have  always 
admired,  and  whose  course'  and  conduct  impressed  me  at  that  early  period 
of  my  life,  has  influenced  me  right  through  until  this  day. 

AT  HARVARD  THIRTY-FIVE  YEARS  LATE 

I  got  back  to  Harvard  later  but  I  was  thirty-five  years  late.  I  was 
installing  a  mission  president  and  it  was  vacation  time.  As  I  stood 
on  the  threshold  of  that  great  institution  I  saw  myself  as  I  might 
have  come  thirty-five  years  earlier,  with  hopes,  with  successes  that  might 
have  been;  and  notwithstanding  I  appreciate  titles  and  degrees  I  was 
not  disappointed.  I  saw  on  the  other  hand  what  had  happened  to  me: 
Eleven  years  as  a  bishop's  counselor  and  high  councilor ;  fourteen  years 
as  a  missionary  of  the  Church ;  fifteen  years  as  a  member  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve — forty  years  of  glorious  living !  The  joy  that  had  come 
out  of  it,  the  honors  and  the  favors  of  the  Almighty,  I  would  not  change 
for  all  the  titles  and  degrees  that  Harvard  offers,  much  as  I  admire  them, 
if  I  had  to  sacrifice  for  them  the  joys  and  the  happiness  that  came  to 
me  through  yielding  obedience. 

AN  IMPORTANT  LESSON 

This  is  the  lesson  that  I  learned :  If  I  do  what  the  Lord  wants  me 
to  do  I  shall  live  to  fulfil  my  life  in  the  fullest  and  the  most  glorious 
way.  I  cannot  always  see  what  he  wants  me  to  do,  but  he  often  inspires 
those  whom  he  has  called  and  appointed  to  direct  the  labors  of  my  life, 
so  that  if  I  am  obedient  to  them  and  listen  I  shall  come  to  find  myself 
prepared. 

Oh,  how  grateful  I  am  that  when  these  responsibilities  came  I  had 
had  some  training  for  them!  How  grateful  I  am  for  the  example  of 
President  Ivins !  Was  it  profitable  to  him?  Do  you  think  President 
Ivins  ever  would  have  stood  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  or  as  First 
Counselor  to  the  President  of  this  Church,  if  he  had  not  accepted  the  call 
of  the  Lord  ?  Never !  I  wouldn't  be  standing  here  today  if  I  had  not 
followed  his  example.   I  thank  God  I  had  strength  to  do  it. 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


NOT  BLIND  OBEDIENCE 

I  am  not  asking  for  blind  obedience.  One  day  the  angel  of  the  Lord 
commanded  Adam  to  build  an  altar  and  offer  sacrifice,  and  he  did  it,  not 
knowing  why.  But  on  another  occasion,  when  the  angel  came  and  said : 
"Adam,  why  do  you  do  this  thing?"  he  gave  that  majestic  and  sublime 
answer :  "I  know  not,  save  God  has  commanded  it."  It  was  enough  that 
the  Lord  had  required  the  sacrifice.  But  what  did  it  yield  Adam?  It 
brought  from  the  lips  of  the  angel  the  first  explanation  concerning  the 
coming  of  the  Messiah,  the  Lamb  that  was  to  be  slain.  His  obedience 
brought  knowledge.  I  am  not  pleading  for  blind  obedience,  but  there 
are  two  ways  by  which  obedience  may  be  secured. 

It  was  stated  a  long  time  ago  by  an  eminent  authority  in  this  coun- 
try, that  the  two  most  efficient  organizations  in  the  world  were  the  Ger- 
man army  and  the  Mormon  Church,  but  he  wished  that  we  might  have 
equal  efficiency  without  loss  of  individual  liberty,  as  he  regarded  us 
under  the  domination  of  the  heirarchy  that  directed  us,  and  assumed 
that  obedience  was  secured  here  as  it  was  in  the  German  army. 

THROUGH  DISOBEDIENCE 

It  is  true  that  obedience  may  be  had  by  force  and  compulsion.  In 
the  very  beginning,  when  the  Lord  desired  to  know  whom  he  should 
send  to  represent  him  here  in  the  earth,  who  offered  themselves  ?  Two 
glorious  sons  of  God.  One  was  accepted  and  the  other  was  rejected, 
and  the  one  who  was  rejected  rebelled  and  was  disobedient.  I  would  like 
to  say  to  you  that  the  foundation  of  all  the  sorrows  and  distresses  that 
have  ever  come  to  men,  from  the  very  beginning  until  this  day,  have  come 
through  disobedience.  No  man  commits  sin  but  that  he  is  disobedient 
to  the  law  of  God  and  man.  I  could  name,  if  time  would  allow,  the  men  of 
history,  even  to  our  own  day,  who  have  lost  their  place  and  standing  in 
the  high  councils  of  the  Church,  through  disobedience. 

THE  METHOD  OF  THE  CHRIST 

Yes,  obedience  can  be  secured  by  force  and  compulsion  and  that 
was  Satan's  method,  but  it  was  not  the  method  of  the  Christ.  Jesus 
Christ  had  the  power  to  whip  the  world  into  absolute  obedience  in  the 
three  years  of  his  ministry,  if  he  had  only  used  his  power.  He  had  power 
to  speak,  and  not  only  would  the  winds  and  the  waves  obey  his  voice  but 
they  would  become  his  instruments  to  thrash  the  nations  and  bring  them 
to  their  knees  through  fear.  He  had  the  power  to  speak  and  the  very 
trees  would  not  only  wither,  but  famine  could  have  been  spread  all  over 
the  earth.  Still,  he  could  speak  to  the  elements  and  secure  food  to  supply 
his  followers.  He  could  not  only  speak  and  the  dead  would  come  back  to 
life,  but  he  could  speak  and  the  living  would  perish.  That  was  his 
power,  but  he  did  not  use  it  to  bring  men  to  bow  down  before  him,  for 
where  there  was  no  faith  there  was  no  miracle.  He  would  call,  persuade, 
in  numerous  ways  be  good  and  kind,  but  he  would  not  force  the  human 
mind. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


119 


BY  FORCE  AND  COMPULSION 

Contrast  the  work  that  went  forward  under  the  administration  of 
Constantine  the  Great,  who  built  on  the  ruins  of  the  church  that  Christ 
established,  that  mighty  institution  that  ruled  during  the  long,  dark  ages. 
That  institution  was  not  established  by  love  and  gentleness  and  per- 
suasion, but  by  the  might  and  the  power  and  the  force  of  Roman  arms. 
Nation  after  nation  was  conquered  and  found  peace  only  when  they  ac- 
cepted Christianity.  They  gave  it  but  lip  service.  No  wonder  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  said  of  this  brand  of  Christians,  long  afterwards :  "They 
draw  near  me  with  their  mouths,  and  with  their  lips  they  do  honor  me,  but 
their  hearts  are  far  removed  from  me."  It  was  the  only  kind  of  worship 
they  had  known.  They  had  not  only  been  brought  within  the  pales  of 
the  institution  set  up  under  that  method  and  rule,  by  might  and  force,  but 
by  that  same  force  they  had  been  compelled  to  remain  for  long  ages. 

OBEDIENCE  THROUGH  LOVE 

What  is  the  method  in  this  Church  ?  It  is  obedience  through  love, 
not  obedience  through  force.  We  have  not  known  force.  What  was 
it  that  prompted  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  love  their  prophet  and  that 
caused  them  to  be  so  united  in  following  him  and  his  teachings  ?  I  often 
contrast  his  life  with  the  life  of  John  Alexander  Dowie,  who  also  came 
representing  himself  as  a  prophet.  He  performed  some  miracles  and 
secured  a  following,  and  then  abused  their  confidence  by  enriching  him- 
self. Later  he  was  rejected  and  went  somewhere  else  to  die,  unhonored, 
unwept  and  unsung.  But  not  the  "Mormon"  prophet,  Joseph  Smith. 
He  might  have  asked  and  received.  Everything  that  his  people  had  they 
would  have  given  to  him.  But  he  asked  for  nothing  save  the  bare  neces- 
sities of  life,  and  even  these  he  shared  with  his  friends.  They  were  never 
in  any  difficulty  but  that  he  was  at  the  front,  between  them  and  their 
enemies.  When  his  followers  were  exiled  from  Missouri  he  was  a  ran- 
som. They  could  go  free  but  he  was  condemned  to  lie  for  months  in  one 
of  the  foulest  dungeons  that  has  disgraced  the  foot-stool  of  God.  When 
he  realized  that  he  must  go  somewhere  else  and  find  a  home  for  his  people 
he  started  for  the  Rocky  Mountains,  where  he  predicted  they  would  go. 
When  he  crossed  the  Mississippi  River  and  was  ready  to  come  west  the 
word  was  passed  that  he  was  a  shepherd  deserting  the  flock.  It  stung  him 
to  the  quick.  Had  he  ever  deserted  the  flock  ?  Never.  He  might  have 
snapped  his  fingers  at  all  his  enemies  and  been  free.  He  surrendered 
and  went  back.  He  not  only  went  to  his  flock  but  he  went  to  Carthage 
and  drew  the  fire  from  their  heads  upon  his  own  until  he  gave  his  life. 
The  very  last  act  of  his  life,  after  the  mob  had  assailed  that  prison  and 
had  slain  his  beloved  brother  Hyrum,  was  to  walk  to  that  open  window 
from  whence  the  bullets  of  the  mob  had  been  coming— and  he  knew  it 
was  certain  death — but  he  saved  two  of  his  beloved  brethren,  John  Taylor 
and  Willard  Richards.  So  that  from  the  beginning  of  his  life  to  the  last 
act  he  was  giving  himself  for  his  friends,  and  "greater  love  hath  no 
man  than  this,  that  a  man  lay  down  his  life  for  his  friends." 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Do  you  wonder  that  we  love  him?  We  do  not  worship  him.  We 
regard  him  as  one  of  God's  greatest  prophets,  and  his  successors  down 
to  this  day  have  had  that  same  spirit  in  their  hearts.  I  know  it  is  in 
the  heart  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  I  know  that  the  only  motive  that 
dominates  his  life  is  to  do  the  will  of  God  and  to  serve  this  people. 

THE  WILL  OF  THE  MAJORITY 

There  is  a  principle  lying  at  the  very  foundation  of  this  Church,  and 
it  is  at  the  foundation  of  this  government  as  well,  for  in  the  laying  of  the 
foundation  of  this  government  it  was  conceded  that  it  would  be  impossible 
for  us  to  go  forward  unless  it  was  agreed  that  the  will  of  the  majority, 
expressed  in  law,  must  be  regarded  as  the  rule  governing  the  conduct  of 
the  minority  as  well.   Hence  our  Constitution  came  into  existence. 

It  is  so  in  this  Church.  No  man  is  muzzled.  President  Grant  does 
not  muzzle  his  brethren.  He  seeks  for  all  the  light  and  wisdom  that  they 
have.  But  there  is  also  a  rule  that  when  we  reach  a  conclusion  the 
decision  of  the  majority  obtains,  and  it  is  the  duty  of  the  minority,  either 
in  the  government  or  in  this  great  American  church  that  is  also  builded 
upon  this1  same  glorious  principle,  that  we  obey  the  will  of  the  majority 
expressed  in  law. 

FIRST  GREAT  LESSON  IN  AMERICANISM 

I  remember  that  the  first  great  lesson  in  Americanism  I  received  was 
in  the  first  great  campaign  under  statehood  in  Utah,  when  we  were  in 
a  presidential  election.  I  recall  how  my  father,  a  leader  of  one  of  the 
parties  here,  had  been  urgently  recommending  and  doing  everything  in  his 
power  to  get  his  candidate  elected,  but  he  was  defeated.  I  recall  the 
practice  of  my  father  to  always  pray  as  earnestly  for  the  President  of  the 
United  States  as  for  the  President  of  the  Church.  Now,  the  morning 
of  the  inauguration  of  this  successful  president,  who  was  not  my  father's 
candidate,  it  was  my  father's  turn  to  pray  and  I  was  watching.  But  to 
my  astonishment  he  prayed  more  earnestly  for  that  man  than  he  had 
ever  prayed  for  a  president  before ;  and  I  said :  "Father,  you  surely  for- 
got yourself  this  morning.  You  did  not  intend  to  pray  for  that  fellow. 
You  did  not  vote  for  him.  You  did  not  want  him.  You  thought  your 
man  would  be  a  better  president."  He  said :  "I  certainly  did  not  forget. 
It  is  true  I  thought  my  man  would  have  been  a  better  president,  and  I  still 
think  so,  but  the  majority  of  the  people  did  not  agree  with  me ;  and  the 
majority  of  the  people  having  spoken  he  is  now  my  President,  and  I  am 
going  to  support  him  as  though  I  had  voted  for  him ;  and  pray  for  him, 
yes.  And  he  will  need  my  prayers  much  more  than  the  other  fellow 
would  have  needed  them." 

SATAN  ON  THE  ALERT 

I  say  it  was  my  first  great  lesson  in  Americanism,  and  it  is  a  lesson 
I  should  like  the  Latter-day  Saints  today  to  bring  to  their  homes.  We 
are  in  a  period  of  peace,  so  far  as  the  Church  is  concerned,  but  the  enemy, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


121 


who  has  fought  us  by  bonds  and  imprisonment  and  martyrdom,  has  not 
quit  the  fight.  Oh,  if  he  could  get  a  wedge  between  the  people  and  their 
leaders,  get  us  to  quarreling,  get  us  to  disregard  that  principle  that 
has  brought  us  all  the  success  that  we  have  ever  had,  from  the  very 
beginning,  the  principle  of  union  and  obedience, — if  he  could  do  this 
it  would  be  his  great  pleasure.  Don't  you  let  him  fool  you.  I  know  there 
are  some  who  think :  "Oh,  if  President  Young  were  only  here,  or  Presi- 
dent Taylor,  or  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  they  would  do  so  and  so." 
Here  is  another  principle  the  Latter-day  Saints  must  learn :  to  follow  your 
living  leader.  "Whomsoever  I  the  Lord  appoint  ye  shall  accept,"  the 
Master  said.  "And  whosoever  receives  whom  I  send  unto  you,  receives 
me  and  receives  the  Father." 

THE  MAN  FOR  THE  TIME 

Every  man  who  has  presided  over  this  Church  had  a  mission,  a 
destiny,  and  he  performed  it  gloriously,  but  he  was  the  man  for  the 
time.  President  Young  could  scarcely  have  endured  what  President  Tay- 
lor did,  and  President  Taylor  would  have  found  it  almost  impossible 
to  carry  the  Lord's  program  through  as  the  meek  and  mild  President 
Woodruff  did.  Likewise  on  to  this  day,  every  man  for  his  time,  and  the 
Lord  knew  what  he  wanted  done  in  the  next  program  of  the  Church. 

No  man — and  I  say  it  with  all  regard  and  respect  for  the  men  who 
have  presided  in  the  past — no  man,  in  my  judgment,  of  all  these  glorious 
men,  could  have  served  this  people  and  done  God's  work  better  at  this 
time  than  President  Heber  J.  Grant  has  done  it.  He  is  the  man  for 
this  time — progressive.  You  young  people  who  think  he  is  not,  go  study 
the  history  and  you  will  find  that  he  has  been  one  of  the  most  progressive 
presidents  this  Church  has  ever  had.  He  has  conducted  it  through  its 
greatest  building  program.  May  the  Lord  preserve  his  life  until  he  has 
filled  to  the  uttermost  his  mission.  It  isn't  filled  yet.  And  then  the 
Lord  will  raise  up  another,  for  this  is  his  work  and  it  is  mightier  than 
man's. 

BLESSINGS  AWAIT  THE  FAITHFUL 

God  bless  us,  that  we  will  stifle  that  spirit  that  would  criticise  and 
find  fault.  Some  of  you  may  be  disappointed,  that  you  were  not  called 
into  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  There  are  hundreds  of  men  in  this 
Church  worthy,  if  the  Lord  would  call  them,  to  fill  these  places.  The 
Lord  called  the  right  men.  I  know  it.  You  brelhren,  take  peace  and 
comfort.  Whatever  disappointments  may  come,  still  be  true  to  him  and 
I  promise  you,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  that  if  not  in  time,  in  eternity, 
you  shall  have  like  honors  and  glory  and  privilege.  If  you  are  faithful 
over  a  few  things  here,  you  shall  be  ruler  over  many  things  there,  and 
become  kings  and  priests  unto  God.  And  you  sisters  who  have  dwelt 
in  reflected  glory  will  shine  in  your  own  light,  queens  and  priestesses 
unto  the  Lord  forever  and  ever. 

God  help  us  to  be  loyal  to  each  other,  loyal  to  the  cause,  obedient 
to  the  counsels  of  those  whom  God  calls  to  direct  us;  and  the  enemy 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


who  has  sought  to  destroy  us  shall  be  no  more  successful  in  new  methods 
than  he  was  through  bonds  and  imprisonment  and  mob  violence. 

IN  THE  HANDS  OF  GOD 

Don't  worry  about  the  future  of  the  Church.  It  is  in  the  hands 
of  the  Almighty.  Don't  worry  about  the  future  of  the  Government. 
That,  too,  is  in  the  hands  of  God,  and  he  will  guide  it  and  direct  it  aright, 
and  carry  it  forward  until  it,  too,  shall  find  its  glorious  mission.  God 
speed  his  cause  on.  Wars,  yes,  and  bloodshed  will  come,  and  thrones  will 
totter,  but  out  of  every  conflict  will  come  the  onward  progress  of 
truth  and  righteousness  in  the  preparation  of  this  world  for  its  golden 
age,  for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  God ! 

God  help  us  to  be  true  under  every  trial,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  then  sang  two  verses  of  the  hymn,  "The 
Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  very  splendid  conference  we  have  had. 
I  feel  very  grateful  to  the  Lord,  beyond  my  power  of  expression,  for 
the  great  blessings  poured  out  upon  us  during  our  conference. 

I  am  indeed  grateful  that  in  these  times  of  distress  there  has  been  a 
remarkable  increase  in  the  tithes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Although 
I  am  sure  that  the  actual  income  of  some  of  the  people  has  not  been  any- 
where near  what  it  was  three  years  ago,  yet  our  tithing  is  better  than  it 
was  three  years  ago.    "By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them." 

BLESSINGS  COME  THROUGH  ATTENDANCE  AT  MEETINGS 

There  is  an  increase  in  the  attendance  of  the  people  at  meetings. 
There  is  nothing  that  causes  the  people  to  grow  more  in  the  Gospel  than 
attending  their  meetings.  There  is  nothing  that  is  more  calculated  to 
cause  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  to  dry  up,  figuratively  speaking,  than  to 
stay  away  from  our  meetings.  When  we  are  in  a  meeting  we  partake 
of  the  spirit  of  that  meeting.  When  we  are  absent  from  it  and  somebody 
tells  us  of  the  wonderful  spirit  that  was  present  and  what  was  accom- 
plished by  being  there  to  partake  of  it,  we  cannot  appreciate  those  things. 
It  is  very  much  like  the  man  who  was  hungry  and  someone  told  him  of 
a  fine  dinner,  but  he  did  not  appreciate  that  dinner.  We  have  to  eat  for 
ourselves,  we  have  to  live  for  ourselves,  we  have  to  be  in  the  line  of 
our  duty  in  order  to  partake  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  if  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  is  manifest. 

I  call  to  mind  that  a  brother  who  lost  his  standing  as  an  apostle  was 
a  very,  very  poor  attendant  at  the  meetings  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
other  matters  occupied  his  attention.  Francis  M.  Lyman  had  to  come 
from  Tooele  the  night  before  our  meeting  and  spend  one  night  here  and 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


123 


all  day  in  order  to  be  at  the  meetings  of  the  Presidency  and  Apostles 
which  lasted  two  or  three  hours,  but  he  never  missed  one  of  them. 

I  said  to  him  one  day:  "It  is  remarkable  to  me  that  you  are  so 
prompt  and  always  present  at  our  meetings." 

He  said :  "I  do  not  want  to  miss  any  inspiration  from  the  Lord ;  I 
do  not  want  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  come  to  me  second  hand.  I  want 
to  partake  of  it,  and  to  feel  it,  and  to  realize  it,  and  to  know  it  for 
myself." 

RICHARD  W.  YOUNG'S  EXPERIENCE 

Speaking  of  not  being  there  to  partake  of  the  Spirit,  I  am  reminded 
of  an  incident  in  the  life  of  my  nearest  and  dearest  friend,  Richard  W. 
Young.  Richard  had  graduated  from  West  Point  and  had  gained  a 
knowledge  of  law  while  stationed  at  Governor's  Island,  and  attending 
the  Columbia  university  and  graduating  from  that  institution.  After  he 
had  graduated  he  was  chosen  by  Gen.  Hancock,  because  of  his  admira- 
tion for  the  studiousness  of  the  young  man,  to  be  a  major  on  his  staff. 
I  took  some  pride  in  looking  out  of  a  window  on  Broadway  at  the  four- 
mile-long  procession  which  was  the  funeral  of  President  Ulysses  S. 
Grant,  and  seeing  a  grandson  of  Brigham  Young  riding  on  horseback 
at  the  head  of  the  funeral  procession  with  Gen.  Hancock  and  others. 
The  general  made  him  judge-advocate-general  of  the  eastern  department 
of  the  army.  But  Hancock  died  and  another  Pharaoh  arose  who  did  not 
know  Joseph,  so  Richard  fell  back  to  first  or  second  lieutenant,  I  have 
forgotten  which. 

He  came  home  for  his  vacation,  and  he  said  to  me :  "Now,  Heber, 
I  took  the  advice  of  President  Taylor  at  your  suggestion,  and  instead  of 
resigning  years  ago  in  order  to  get  a  legal  education  I  stayed  in  the 
army.  Now  I  have  my  legal  education.  There  are  more  lieutenants  in 
the  army  than  they  want,  and  they  would  like  me  to  resign,  with  the  un- 
derstanding that  I  will  volunteer  if  there  is  trouble.  I  do  not  want  to 
ask  President  Taylor,  but  I  wish  you  would  plead  my  cause  for  me  at  the 
meeting  next  Thursday  in  the  Endowment  House,  and  Uncle  'Briggie' 
has  promised  to  do  the  same." 

We  two  pleaded  his  cause  and  some  others  also,  and  not  a  word  was 
said  in  favor,  of  his  staying  in  the  army,  but  after  we  had  got  through 
pleading,  President  Taylor  said : 

"Tell  that  young  man  it  is  the  proper  time  for  him  to  stay  in  the 
army." 

Richard  was  in  Logan  at  the  time.  His  aunt,  Mrs.  George  W. 
Thatcher  was  entertaining  his  friends  in  his  honor,  and  he  received  my 
telegram  reading,  "Stay  in  the  army,"  just  as  they  were  about  to  sit 
down  to  dinner,  and  it  took  his  appetite  away  completely. 

ASKS  FOR  REASONS 

When  he  returned  to  Salt  Lake  City,  he  said :  "What  were  the 
reasons  why  I  am  to  stay  in  the  army?  What  arguments  were  given ?" 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"None.  All  the  arguments  were  for  you  to  resign.  President  Tay- 
lor said,  'Stay  in  the  army.'  " 

"Well,  I  would  like  some  reasons." 

"You  cannot  have  them,  as  none  was  given.  You  got  your  educa- 
tion for  nothing  by  following  his  advice.  I  think  you  should  do  it 
again." 

"Oh,  my  gracious,  I  am  going  to  do  it,  but  I  would  like  some  rea- 
sons." 

I  said,  "Well,  I  cannot  give  you  any.  If  you  had  been  there,  if  you 
had  felt  as  I  did  when  President  Taylor  spoke,  you  would  have  felt  as  I 
felt  it  in  my  heart,  that  he  was  right." 

Richard  went  East  and  met  one  of  his  classmates  who  said :  "Where 
are  you  stationed,  what  is  your  place?"   And  he  told  him. 

MAKES  CHANGE 

The  other  man  said  :  "Lucky  dog !  You  had  the  best  station  in  the 
whole  army — Governor's  island — and  now  you  have  got  another  good 
one,  and  I  have  to  go  away  out  in  the  wild  and  woolly  west  to  Salt  Lake, 
to  Fort  Douglas." 

Richard  said :  "I  would  just  as  soon  change  with  you  if  the  Secre- 
tary of  War  will  consent." 

So  they  wrote  and  asked  for  a  transfer  and  got  it,  and  Richard 
returned,  went  up  to  Fort  Douglas,  with  a  street  car  running  every  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes,  came  down  to  the  city,  and  went  into  LeGrand 
Young's  office — he  could  not  go  into  court  of  course — and  got  through 
the  four  years  of  starvation  period  as  a  young  lawyer. 

I  happened  to  be  in  the  President's  office  one  morning  and  I  saw 
in  the  morning  paper  that  Richard's  four  years  at  Fort  Douglas  were  up, 
and  it  told  where  he  had  to  go. 

President  Taylor  said :  "Heber,  I  see  your  young  friend,  Richard 
Young,  is  going  to  leave  Fort  Douglas." 

"Yes." 

"Well,  you  tell  him  that  he  is  released  now,  and  it  is  time  for  him 
to  stay  home." 

SACRIFICING  PERSONAL  AMBITIONS 

There  have  been  experiences  in  my  life  during  the  last  fifty-three 
years,  from  the  time  I  went  to  Tooele,  illustrating  the  benefits  that  come 
through  obedience,  the  benefits  that  come  when  we  sacrifice  our  per- 
sonal amibitions  for  that  which  we  feel  in  our  heart  is  our  duty.  Like 
Brother  Ballard,  I  had  an  over-weening  ambition  for  a  university  edu- 
cation and  a  degree  from  a  great  school.  I  had  very  little  hope  of  ob- 
taining it,  having  no  means  and  having  a  widowed  mother  to  look  after. 

I  met  President  George  Q.  Cannon,  then  our  delegate  to  Congress, 
and  he  said :  "Would  you  like  to  go  to  the  naval  academy,  or  to  West 
Point?" 

I  told  him  I  would. 

He  said:   "Which  one?" 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  125 


I  said:    "The  naval  academy." 

"All  right.  I  will  give  you  the  appointment  without  competitive  ex- 
amination." 

For  the  first  time  in  my  life  I  did  not  sleep  well,  I  lay  awake  nearly 
all  night  long  rejoicing  that  the  ambition  of  my  life  was  to  be  fulfilled. 
I  fell  asleep  just  a  little  before  daylight;  my  mother  had  to  awaken  me. 

I  said :  "Mother,  what  a  marvelous  thing  it  is  that  I  am  to  have  an 
education  as'  fine  as  that  of  any  young  man  in  all  Utah.  I  could  hardly 
sleep,  I  was  awake  until  almost  daylight  this  morning." 

I  looked  into  her  face,  I  saw  that  she  had  been  weeping.  I  have 
heard  of  people  who  when  drowning  had  their  entire  life  pass  before 
them  in  almost  a  few  seconds.  I  saw  myself  an  admiral  in  my 
mind's  eye ;  I  saw  myself  traveling  all  over  the  world  in  a  ship,  away 
from  my  widowed  mother.  I  laughed  and  put  my  arms  around  her,  and 
kissed  her  and  said : 

"Mother,  I  do  not  want  a  naval  education.  I  am  going  to  be  a  bus- 
iness man  and  shall  enter  an  office  right  away  and  take  care  of  you, 
and  have  you  quit  keeping  boarders  for  a  living." 

She  broke  down  and  wept  and  said  that  she  had  not  closed  her 
eyes,  but  had  prayed  all  night  that  I  would  give  up  my  life's  ambition 
so  that  she  would  not  be  left  alone. 

We  all  have  temptations,  we  all  have  things  come  into  our  lives 
which  iii  we  give  them  proper  consideration  we  will  reject. 

Brother  Ballard  has  referred  to  the  invitation  that  was  sent  to  Presi- 
dent Ivins  to  accept  the  nomination  as  governor  of  the  state  of  Utah, 
which  reminds  me  that  a  telegram  came  to  me  from  Ogden  at  that  time 
asking  me  where  they  could  find  Anthony  W.  Ivins.  It  said,  "We  will 
nominate  him  by  acclamation  to  be  the  first  governor  of  the  state  of 
UtahJ  or  the  first  representative  to  Congress." 

I  answered  to  the  effect  that  he  was  on  the  Kaibab  mountain  and 
had  accepted  a  call  to  go  to  Mexico.  Nothing  in  the  world  would  cause 
him  to  fail  to  fulfil  that  call. 

I  received  another  telegram  telling  me  that  they  could  not  nominate 
me  by  acclamation,  but  that  they  had  the  majority  pledged  to  me,  and 
believed  it  would  be  by  acclamation  before  the  voting  was  through. 

I  showed  the  telegram  to  Heber  M.  Wells,  who  had  been  nomi- 
nated by  the  Republicans.  He  said:  "Well,  my  name  is  'Dennis',  the 
people  don't  know  me.  You  are  sure  to  be  elected." 

I  said ;  "Well,  I  am  not  sure  that  I  am  going  to  run,  I  will  let  you 
know  later." 

CONFERS  WITH  PRESIDENT 

I  went  to  President  Wilford  Woodruff  and  handed  him  the  tele- 
gram. I  said:  "How  shall  I  answer  that?" 

He  said:  "What  are  you  bothering  me  with  your  affairs  for? 
Haven't  you  got  enough  inspiration  as  one  of  the  Apostles  to  know  what 
your  duty  is  ?" 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  said :  "Thank  you.  If  you  had  wanted  me  to  run,  you  would  have 
said  so.  Good-bye."  (Laughter.) 

I  sent  a  telegram  saying:  "It  will  be  a  personal  favor  to  me  if  my 
name  never  comes  before  the  convention."  And  it  never  did. 

Do  you  think  I  would  not  like  to  have  been  the  first  governor  of  the 
State  of  Utah,  where  I  was  born?  If  you  do  you  are  mistaken.  I  do 
not  know  of  anything  that  I  should  have  liked  better  than  that  at  that 
particular  time.  Thank  the  Lord  I  did  not  get  it,  because  I  think  that 
perhaps  I  should  have  made  a  failure  of  it.  It  was  not  in  my  line,  it  was 
just  an  ambition.  My  education,  my  knowledge  of  government  laws,  and 
such  things  were  just  thqkind  that  did  not  fit  nor  qualify  me  to  be  the 
governor  of  a  state.  I  thank  Brother  Woodruff  for  the  inspiration  that 
kept  me  from  making  a  serious  mistake. 

ENDORSES  REMARKS 

I  endorse  with  all  my  heart  the  remarks  that  have  been  made 
here  during  our  conference,  but  particularly  and  especially  do  I 
endorse  the  remarks  of  Stephen  L.  Richards  and  others  who  have 
talked  about  our  being  honest  and  not  imposing  upon  the  government, 
but  maintaining  our  manhood  and  our  independence  and  living  if  nec- 
essary under  difficulties,  instead  of  rejoicing  that  we  can  get  our  share 
of  the  government's  funds. 

I  regret  beyond  expression  the  change  that  has  come  over  many  of 
the  people.  I  went  into  business  with  my  brother  and  my  cousin-in-law 
way  back  nearly  50  years  ago.  We  sold  $120,000  worth  of  goods  in  the 
implement  business  to  farmers.  I  think  I  am  safe  in  saying  that  ninety- 
nine  out  of  a  hundred  of  them  were  "Mormons,"  and;  $90,000.00  of  the 
sales  were  on  time.  I  have  asked  many  men  to  guess  how  much  our 
losses  were.  Some  have  guessed  5  per  cent,  some  10  per  cent  and  one 
15  per  cent.  Our  losses  were  $300  on  $90,000 — one-third  of  one  per 
cent. 

That  business  grew  from  a  little  business  of  twenty-odd  thousand 
dollars  in  capital  to  $2,500,000.00,  and  we  have  cut  the  capital  from 
$2,500,000  to  $1,500,000.  We  have  had  to  charge  off  a  loss  of  over 
$1,000,000  of  farmers'  paper.  True,  a  great  deal  of  it  is  due  to  the  hard 
times,  but  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  that  spirit  of  determination  to  take 
care  of  ourselves,  to  build  for  ourselves,  to  be  independent,  and  to  be 
sure  to  meet  our  obligations,  is  not  so  strong  today  as  it  was  at  that  time, 
and  there  is  more  of  a  disposition  to  lie  down,  figuratively  speaking,  on 
the  government. 

REPUTATION  FOR  HONESTY 

George  A.  Lowe  tried  to  sell  us  his  business  when  we  were  a  little 
institution  of  $21,000,  and  I  laughed  and  said:  "We  could  not  think  of 
such  a  thing.  We  haven't  any  money." 

He  said  in  substance :  "I  will  take  your  note  at  a  low  rate  of  in- 
terest for  the  entire  purchase  price." 

I  said :   "But  we  would  have  no  capital  to  carry  on  the  business." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


127 


"You  do  not  need  any  with  these  Mormons,"  he  said.  "I  have 
charged  every  loss  from  selling  machinery  to  the  people  in  Utah  and 
Idaho  to  what  I  term  'farmers'  paper' ;  I  have  charged  all  the  interest 
I  have  paid  to  'farmers  'paper' ;  I  have  credited  the  notes  and  the  interest 
that  come  in  to  my  'farmers'  paper' ;  I  borrowed  from  McCornick's  Bank 
every  dollar  with  which  to  carry  it.  I  have  not  put  up  a  dollar  and  I  have 
got  all  my  money  back  and  in  addition  $2  and  a  few  cents  on  every  hun- 
dred— the  difference  between  the  interest  that  I  have  collected  and  the 
interest  that  McCornick's  charged  me. 

"He  will  credit  you  for  all  the  paper  that  you  take  from  these  farm- 
ers, because  he  knows  it  is  worth  one  hundred  cents  on  the  dollar." 

I  remember  that  Howard  Sebree  asked  us  to  buy  his  business  for 
$60,000.  I  told  him  we  did  not  have  the  money. 

He  said :  "Go  over  and  tell  McCornick  that  you  would  like  $60,000 
credit  to  buy  me  out  and  he  will  let  you  have  the  money." 

I  laughed,  but  went  to  McCornick's  as  a  joke.  He  let  the  company 
have  the  money  and  we  bought  Sebree's  business.  We  did  not  lose 
anything  on  the  transaction. 

When  I  was  in  England,  J.  M.  Studebaker,  the  last  of  that  wonder- 
ful quartet  of  Studebaker  Brothers,  visited  Salt  Lake  and  he  was  inter- 
viewed by  the  newspapers.  He  said  that  for  ten  long  years  Studebaker 
Brothers  sold  wagons  and  carriages  in  Utah  to  the  Mormons  on  com- 
mission, and  during  that  whole  ten  years  they  collected  the  money  for 
every  wagon  and  buggy  they  had  sold. 

The  day  was,  years  ago,  when  to  be  classed  as  a  good  Mormon  was  to 
be  classed  as  a  man  who  paid  his  debts.  Let  us,  wherein  we  may  have 
failed  in  the  past  to  live  up  to  that  record,  make  up  our  minds  that  we  are 
going  to  live  up  to.it  again  in  the  future. 

A  PERSONAL  EXPERIENCE 

Do  not  go  into  bankruptcy  unless  you  are  forced  to  do  so.  My 
nearest  and  dearest  friends  pleaded  with  me  to  take  bankruptcy  when  I 
was  ruined,  according  to  their  idea,  beyond  the  hope  of  recovery.  I  said : 
"If  I  live  to  be  a  hundred  years  old,  I  will  not  do  it.  I  will  go  on  work- 
ing to  pay  my  debts.  If  some  one  knocks  me  down,  I  can  not  help  that, 
but,"  I  said,  "if  a  giant  tackles  me,  I  will  defend  myself.  And  if,  after 
a  hundred  years,  I  have  not  paid  my  debts,  then  I  will  pray  to  the  Lord 
to  let  me  live  another  ten  years  in  the  hope  of  doing  so." 

I  was  security  for  a  note  of  a  friend  of  mine,  a  good  Latter-day 
Saint,  I  thought,  and  he  was  going  to  take  bankruptcy.  He  showed  me 
that  I  would  be  relieved  because  the  rate  of  interest  had  been  increased 
without  my  knowledge  or  consent.  He  brought  me  legal  opinions  to 
the  effect  that  that  released  me  as  endorser.  I  laughed,  and  said,  "That 
does  not  make  any  difference  to  me.  If  you  do  not  pay  that  note,  I  will." 

There  was  a  loss  on  that  note  of  $4,700  in  the  shrinkage  of  security. 
I  said,  "I  will  see  you  tomorrow." 

I  went  to  the  bank.  I  said,  "Now  I  will  give  you  three  of  my  notes 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


for  $900  each  if  you  will  renew  this  note,  without  my  endorsement,  for 
$1000  more  than  the  collateral  is  worth ;  and  if  the  man  will  not  do  that, 
will  you  take  his  notes  for  $900  payable  each  year  for  three  years  ?" 
They  said :   "Yes.   Either  way." 

I  went  to  him  and  told  him  to  take  his  choice.  He  said :  "I  will  not 
do  it.  If  you  are  foolish  enough,  when  you  are  not  legally  obligated, 
to  pay  that  note,  that  is  not  my  concern.  I  am  going  to  take  bankruptcy. 
You  do  not  have  to  pay  it  unless  you  want  to." 

A  PROFITABLE  TERMINATION 

I  said:  "That  settles  it.  I  will  assume  it."  And  I  did.  And 
what  was  the  result?  In  the  providences  of  the  Lord  I  changed  the  se- 
curities on  that  note,  got  them  to  take  other  securities,  and  finally  sold 
part  of  the  securities  that  I  took  off  the  note  and  paid  part  of  the  note 
with  the  money  that  I  received,  and  I  kept)  $5000  of  a  certain  stock  that 
I  had  only  paid  $3,250  for,  and  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord  it  paid 
100  per  cent  cash  dividend — $5,000.  Afterwards  it  paid  another  divi- 
dend, and  I  made  enough  to  pay  that  note  (instead  of  losing  $4,700) 
and  $3,000  or  $4,000  additional,  inside  of  two  or  three  years.  He  took 
bankruptcy  and  injured  his  good  name  and  his  reputation  in  the  com- 
munity. 

There  are  those  who  have  been  forced  into  taking  bankruptcy.  That 
is  what  it  is  for.  We  can  not  help  that.  We  can  not  help  it  if  a  bigger 
man  than  we  are  knocks  us  down,  but  we  should  never  lie  down  and 
ask  somebody  to  step  on  us. 

CIGARET  SMOKING 

It  fell  to  my  lot  to  accompany  the  choir  to  Chicago  on  their  recent 
trip.  I  never  saw  a  cigaret  between  Salt  Lake  City  and  Chicago,  or  be- 
tween Chicago  and  Salt  Lake  City.  Every  one  that  I  met,  railroad 
men  and  others,  was  loud  in  his  praise  of  the  choir.  Hotel  people  said 
they  had  never  met  such  a  fine  group  of  young  people,  people  of  such 
fine  character.  To  me  that  was  of  much  more  value  than  their  winning 
— as  they  did — laurels  for  their  singing. 

The  presidency  of  the  Liberty  stake  have  sent  out  a  circular  for 
ward  teachers.  I  would  like  to  read  it  all,  but  I  see  the  time  is  shorter 
than  I  had  figured  on. 

Dr.  Hugh  S.  Cummings,  United  States  Surgeon  General,  has  said: 

If  American  women  contract  the  smoking  habit,  as  reports  now  indicate  they 
are  doing,  the  physical  tone  of  the  whole  nation  will  suffer.  The  habit  harms  a 
woman  more  than  it  does  a  man. 

And  Dr.  D.  H.  Cress  of  Washington  has  written: 

When  women  take  up  with  this  practice  of  smoke  inhalation  the  race  will  be 
doomed  For  both  man  and  wife  to  be  addicts  to  smoke  inhalation  is  destruc- 
tive of  everything  that  is  good.  Children  born  to  such  a  pair  had  better  never 
have  been  born. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  1.  GRANT 


129 


NEED  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

That  is  pretty  serious  talk,  isn't  it?  Never  in  the  history  of  this 
Church  have  we  needed  so  much  as  we  do  today  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
No  nation  can  ever  prosper,  this  nation  being  no  exception,  that  under- 
takes to  pay  part  of  its  obligation  and  to  build  up  the  nation  by  licensing 
the  sale  of  liquor  and  allowing  people  to  make  millions  upon  millions  of 
dollars  by  selling  liquor.  I  have  never  felt  so  humiliated  in  my  life 
over  anything  as  that  the  state  of  Utah  voted  for  the  repeal  of  prohibition. 
I  do  not  want  to  interfere  with  any  man's  rights  or  privileges.  I  do  not 
want  to  dictate  to  any  man.  But  when  the  Lord  gives  a  revelation  and 
tells  me  what  is  for  my  financial  benefit  and  the  financial  benefit  of  this 
people,  because  "of  evils  and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts 
of  conspiring  men  in  the  last  days,"  I  do  think  that  at  least  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  should  listen  to  what  the  Lord  has  said. 

Can  there  be  any  meaner  or  more  devilish  thing  than  the  advertise- 
ment showing  cigaret  smoke  as  an  engagement  ring  ?  That  is  the  kind  of 
advertising  cigarets  are  getting. 

We  have  a  newspaper  that  does  not  pay,  known  as  The  Deseret 
News.  We  have  to  put  up  money  in  order  to  keep  it  going.  It  would 
pay  tomorrow  if  we  would  advertise  beer  that  does  not  intoxicate, — of 
course  that  is,  white  people,  but  it  does  intoxicate  Indians  when  they 
drink  it.   Legally  it  does  not  intoxicate,  but  actually  it  does. 

MORE  DRINKING  THAN  PREVIOUSLY 

Every  one  said :  "We  do  not  want  the  saloons  to  come  back."  Well, 
they  have  more  than  come  back.  It  is  said  that  on  Second  South  street 
today  there  is  more  drinking  than  there  was  in  all  the  saloons  we  had 
formerly  in  the  same  amount  of  territory,  and  it  is  said  there  is  also  as 
much  if  not  more  boot-legging  than  there  was  before  we  repealed  the 
prohibition  law. 

I  could  not  help  but  feel  humiliated  when  the  Latter-day  Saints 
knew  as  well  as  they  knew  that  they  lived  that  I  wanted  them  to  remain 
true  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  not  vote  for  the  repeal  of  prohibition. 

A  Word  of  Wisdom,  for  the  benefit  of  the  council  of  high  priests,  assembled 
in  Kirtland,  and  the  Church,  and  also  the  Saints  in  Zion : 

To  be  sent  greeting ;  not  by  commandment  or  constraint — 

Some  people  say :  "That  is  the  way  I  get  around  it — 'not  by  com- 
mandment or  constraint' — we  can  do  as  we  please." 

WILL  OF  GOD 

But  what  else  does  it  say  ?  It  says  "by  revelation  and  the  word  of 
wisdom,  showing  forth — "  What?  "Showing  forth  the  order  and  the 
will  of  God."  I  say  to  such  people,  you  do  not  want  to  know  the  will  of 
God,  do  you?  I  think  one  of  the  weakest  excuses  I  ever  heard  of  in 
my  life  is  that  one — "not  by  commandment  or  constraint" — when,  before 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  verse  ends,  it  tells  you  that  it  is  the  will  of  God,  "in  the  temporal  sal- 
vation of  all  saints  in  the  last  days." 

Now,  I  see  there  is  no  time  left,  so  I  will  ask  you,  one  and  all,  as 
a  favor,  every  Latter-day  Saint  within  the  sound  of  my  voice,  to  read 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  as  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
do  it  tonight  or  tomorrow.  Do  not  put  it  off  longer  than  tomorrow,  and 
it  will  save  my  reading  it  and  saying  any  more  about  it  now. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  splendid  record  made  by  the  choir. 

PRESIDENT  YOUNG'S  ATTITUDE  REGARDING  CREDIT 

I  intended  to  bring  a  letter  here  to  read  to  you  over  the  signature 
of  Brigham  Young.  I  shall  publish  it  in  the  Conference  Pamphlet,  and 
shall  ask  that  it  be  published  in  The  Deseret  News,  following  my  remarks 
here,  because  I  have  not  time  to  read  it  now.  A  firm  refused  credit 
to  Z.  C.  M.  L,  and  President  Brigham  Young  wrote  to  the  firm  and 
thanked  them  and  said  that  his  advice  to  the  people  always  had  been  not  to 
go  in  debt. 

This  letter  from  Brigham  Young  upon  which  President  Grant  com- 
mented is  printed  herewith  as  follows : 

St.  George,  Utah. 
March  27,  1877. 

To 

Messrs.  Meyer  Bros.  &  Co., 
St.  Louis,  Mo. 
Gentlemen : 

A  few  days  ago  we  received  from  Zion's  Co-operative  Mercantile  Institution 
at  Salt  Lake  City,  a  copy  of  your  communication  of  the  3rd  inst.,  in  which  you 
inform  that  institution  that  you  prefer  to  do  only  a  cash  business  with  it  hereafter. 

We  are  thankful  to  you  for  giving  them  this  notice. 

It  is  in  exact  keeping  with  our  repeated  instructions  to  the  officers  of  that 
institution,  to  do  all  their  business  on  the  no-credit  system. 

If  those  officers,  and  all  of  our  people  engaged  in  business  would  only  be 
advised  by  us  they  would  do  their  business,  and  all  of  it,  on  the  cash-down 
principle  and  not  a  dollar  on  credit. 

We  desire  to  see  our  people  invariably  adopt  this  manner  of  doing  business — 
go  with  their  money  and  buy  where  they  find  they  can  do  so  to  the  best  advantage. 
Be  self-sustaining  in  this,  as  they  are  in  so  many  other  respects.  In  this  course, 
we  do  not  fail  to  see  abundant  increase  of  business  thrift  and  financial  prosperity. 

For  this  reason  we  most  earnestly  desire,  that  all  with  whom  our  people  of  this 
territory  do  business,  would  refuse  credit ;  and  thus  teach  the  very  useful  lesson 
of  making  them  self-reliant  and  sustaining  in  their  commerical  transactions. 

The  triumphs  of  the  people  in  this  before-time,  so-called  desert  and  forbidding 
wilderness,  have  been  achieved  by  this  very  principle  of  self-reliance,  coupled,  of 
course,  with  the  blessings  of  the  Almighty. 

We  would  that  the  same  principle  were  invariably  to  rule  in  all  our  monetary 
transactions  likewise.    And,  therefore,  again  thank  you  for  refusing  to  sell  your 
wares  on  time  to  Zion's  Co-operative  Mercantile  Institution  and  remain 
Gentlemen 

Yours  Very  Respectfully, 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

I  wish  also  to  compliment  the  director  and  the  good  sisters  of  the 
Singing  Mothers  chorus. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


131 


WORD  OF  THE  LORD  TO  HYRUM  SMITH 

I  want  to  read  something  that  the  Lord  said  to  Hyrum  Smith : 

Seek  not  for,  riches  but  for  wisdom ;  and  behold,  the  mysteries  of  God  shall 
be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall  you  be  made  rich.  Behold,  he  that  hath 
eternal  life  is  rich. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  you  desire  of  me  so  it  shall  be  done  unto 
you ;  and  if  you  desire,  you  shall  be  the  means  of  doing  much  good  in  this  genera- 
tion. 

Say  nothing  but  repentance  unto  this  generation.  Keep  my  commandments,  and 
assist  to  bring  forth  my  work,  according  to  my  commandments,  and  you  shall  be 
blessed. 

They  were  working  at  the  time  on  the  translation  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon. 

And  now,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  put  your  trust  in  that  Spirit  which 
leadeth  to  do  good — yea,  to  do  justly,  to  walk  humbly,  to  judge  righteously;  and 
this  is  my  Spirit. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  I  will  impart  unto  you  of  my  spirit,  which  shall 
enlighten  your  mind,  which  shall  fill  your  soul  with  joy;'  *  *  *  * 

Wait  a  little  longer,  until  you  shall  have  my  word,  my  rock,  my  church,  and 
my  gospel,  that  you  may  know  of  a  surety  my  doctrine.  *  *  *  * 

Keep  my  commandments ;  hold  your  peace ;  appeal  unto  my  spirit ; 

Yea,  cleave  unto  me  with  all  your  heart,  that  you  may  assist  in  bringing  to. 
light  those  things  of  which  has  been  spoken — yea,  the  translation  of  my  work ;  be 
patient  until  you  shall  accomplish  it. 

Behold,  this  is  your  work,  to  keep  my  commandments,  yea,  with  all  your 
might,  mind  and  strength. 

Seek  not  to  declare  my  word,  but  seek  first  to  obtain  my  word,  and  then  shall 
your  tongue  be  loosed ;  then,  if  you  desire,  you  shall  have  my  Spirit  and  my  word, 
yea,  the  power  of  God  unto  the  convincing  of  men. 

Now  this  is  the  part  I  want  you  all  to  remember : 

Behold  I  speak  unto  all  who  have  good  desires,  and  have  thrust  in  their  sickles 
to  reap. 

Behold  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  I  am  the  life  and  the  light  of  the 
world. 

I  am  the  same  who  came  unto  my  own,  and  mine  own  received  me  not ; 
But  verily,  verily  ,1  say  unto  you,  that  as  many  as  receive  me,  to  them  will  I 
give  power  to  become  the  sons  of  God,  even  to  them  that  believe  on  my  name. 

ANY  MAN  WHO  RIDICULES  THE  SAVIOR 

We  are  told  that  agitation  is  going  on  in  some  sections  of  the  coun- 
try in  favor  of  so-called  "liberty,"  which  instead  of  being  liberty  is  any- 
thing but  liberty.  I  do  not  want  to  be  accused  of  engaging  in  politics, 
but  let  me  tell  you  that  if  any  state  in  the  Union  of  the  United  States 
shall  elect  a  man  to  stand  at  the  head  of  that  state  who  has  ridiculed 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  it  will  be  as  bad  as  the  rebellion  of  1861.  I  lift 
my  voice  against  it,  and  I  am  willing  to  have  it  said  that  this  is  politics, 
if  they  want  to  make  politics  of  it.  Any  Latter-day  Saint  who  sustains 
or  votes  for  a  man  to  be  governor  of  a  state  who  has  ridiculed  in  print 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  is  doing  that  which  I  as  President  of  the  Church 
hereby  condemn. 


132 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


GIVES  TESTIMONY 

The  time  is  up,  but  I  am  going  to  say  something  more.  I  want  it 
distinctly  understood  that  in  England,  Ireland,  Scotland,  Wales,  Ger- 
many, France,  Belgium,  Holland,  Switzerland,  Italy,  Norway,  Sweden, 
Denmark,  Canada,  Mexico,  from  Portland,  Maine,  to  Portland,  Oregon, 
in  the  Hawaiian  Isles,  and  in  far-off  Japan,  I  have  lifted  up  my  voice, 
and  I  want  to  lift  it  up  here,  before  closing  this  conference,  to  the  effect 
that  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  and  that  Mormon- 
ism,  so-called,  is  in  very  deed  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation. 

God  help  you  and  me  and  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  prove  to  the 
Lord  by  our  lives,  that  our  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  is  not 
merely  lip  service.  God  bless  you,  and  bless  all  honest  men,  and  defeat 
all  men  who  are  working  to  destroy  churches.  Roger  Babson  tells  the 
truth  when  he  says  we  need  more  religion.  God  bless  every  man  that 
believes  in  Jesus  Christ  and  is  working  for  the  uplift  of  mankind,  and 
God  defeat  every  man  who  ridicules  the  Savior  of  .the  world,  the  Re- 
deemer of  mankind.  This  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  all  humility,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer  and  Savior.  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Then  shall  your  light  shine  forth,"  was  sung  by  the 
choir,  after  which  the  choir  and  congregation  sang  "Doxology." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Joseph  J.  Daynes,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  singing  at  the  various  sessions  of  the  Conference  was  con- 
ducted by  Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  as- 
sisted by  Albert  J.  Southwick  and  Charlotte  O.  Sackett. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Frank  W.  Asper  and  WadeJ  N.  Stephens. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of    45 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J  115 

A  lesson  from  a  life  sermon,  115 — Ambitious  for  an  education, 
116 — An  important  decision,  116 — Wonderful  women,  116 — Dis- 
appointment and  temptation,  116 — At  Harvard  thirty-five  years 
late,  117 — An  important  lesson,  117 — Not  blind  obedience,  118 — 
Through  disobedience,  118 — The  method  of  the  Christ,  118 — By 
force  and  compulsion,  119 — Obedience  through  love,  119 — The  will 
of  the  majority,  120 — First  great  lesson  in  Americanism,  120 — 
Satan  on  the  alert,  120 — The  man  for  the  time,  121 — Blessings 
await  the  faithful,  121 — In  the  hands  of  God,  122. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O.   17 

Bluth,  Elder  John  V   28 

Budge,  Elder  Oliver  H   65 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A.   103 

A  tribute  to  President  Ivins,  104 — inspired  appointments,  104 — 
The  value  of  the  scriptures,  104 — Origin  of  anesthetics,  104 — The 
Savior's  spoken  word,  105 — Divinity  of  Christ  apparent,  106 — 
Rays  of  light  harnessed,  106 — Rays  of  living  light,  106. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   83 

Increase  of  respect  for  the  Church,  83 — A  balanced  budget,  83 — 
Building  improvements,  84 — Cease  fault  finding,  84 — Examples  of 
honesty,  84 — Importance  of  honesty,  85 — Honesty  in  government, 
85 — Honesty  and  truthfulness  in  politics,  85 — Honesty  in  our 
lives,  86 — Breakdown  of  honesty  and  fair  dealing,  86 — Divine 
injunctions,  87 — Needs  do  not  justify  dishonesty,  87 — Honesty  of 
individual  at  heart,  87-r-Honesty  with  the  Lord,  88. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   96 

Conferences  to  impart  spirituality,  96 — Latter-day  Saints  should 
set  example,  97 — Despotism,  destructive  to  religion  and  govern- 
ment ideals,  98 — Substitution,  98 — Rely  on  the  Lord's  plan,  99 — 
Through  honesty  comes  power  and  dignity,  99. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger  100 

Intelligence  necessary  to  acceptable  worship,  100 — Attributes  as- 
cribed to  God,  100 — Wicked  will  have  opportunity,  101 — The  two 
roads,  102 — Changes  in  presiding  councils,  102 — Bears  testimony, 
103. 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   25 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting  .   2 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church   45 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Auxiliary  Officers    46 

General  Officers  of  the  Church   46 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

Pays  tribute  to  departed  leaders,  2 — Born  of  goodly  parents,  3 — 
Serene  women,  3 — Letter  of  sympathy,  A — His  father,  A — A  mar- 
velous heritage,  A — A  millionaire's  tribute,  4 — Personally  ac- 
quainted with  General  Authorities,  5 — An  example  of  honesty, 

5 —  Rejoices  in  tributes  to  President  Ivins,  6 — Expresses  thanks, 

6 —  President  Ivins  loved  by  youth,  7 — Tribute  to  Brother  Rich- 
ards, 7 — Grateful  to  press,  8. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   23 

Changes  in  Church  officers  since  last  April  Conference,  23. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   42 

Remarks  at  Charles  H.  Hart  funeral,  42 — A  righteous  judge,  43 — 
Engaged  in  a  noble  cause,  43 — Rich  blessings  earned,  43 — Not  in 
the  grave,  43. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   45 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  45 — General 

Officers  of  the  Church,  46 — General  Auxiliary  Officers,  46. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J.    55 

Mission  presidents  limited  in  their  remarks,  55. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   89 

Regarding  Rufus  K.  Hardy,  89. 
Grtint,  President  Heber  J  107 

Gratitude  to  composers,  107. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  122 


Blessings  come  through  attendance  at  meetings,  122 — Richard  W. 
Young's  experience,  123 — Asks  for  reasons,  123 — Makes  change, 

124 —  Sacrificing  personal  ambitions,  124 — Confers  with  President, 

125 —  Endorses  remarks,  126 — Reputation  for  honesty,  126 — A 
personal  experience,  127 — A  profitable  termination,  128 — Cigaret 
smoking,  128 — Need  Word  of  Wisdom,  129 — More  drinking  than 
previously,  129 — Will  of  God,  129 — President  Young's  attitude  re- 
garding credit,  130 — Word  of  the  Lord  to  Hyrum  Smith,  131 — 
Any  man  who  ridicules  the  Savior,  131 — Gives  testimony,  132. 


Hinckley,  Elder  Alonzo  A   53 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   40 

Kirkham,  Elder  J.  M   55 

Kooyman,  Elder  Frank  1   61 

Larsen,  Elder  Holger  M   76 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R.   12 


M.  I.  A.  slogan,  12 — Misunderstandings  between  youth  and  ma- 
turity, 12 — M.  I.  A.  manuals  and  books,  13 — A  subject  on  which 
all  can  agree,  13 — The  personality  of  Joseph  Smith,  13 — Tributes 


INDEX 


135 


by  contemporaries,  14 — A  great  leader  and  prophet,  14 — Samples 
of  inspiration,  15 — Not  good  for  man,  IS — Honesty  and  fair  deal- 
ing, 16 — In  accordance  with  high  ideals,  16 — The  road  to  perfec- 
tion, 17. 

McKay,  President  David  0   89 

President  Grant  a  true  friend,  90 — Love  and  admiration  for  Pres- 
ident Clark,  90 — Lives  consecrated  to  service,  90 — Appreciative 
of  trust,  91 — Man  destined  to  be  happy,  91 — Distressful  conditions, 

91 —  Sunshine  needed,  92 — The  purpose  of  worldly  possessions, 

92 —  A  proper  sense  of  values,  93 — The  secret  of  happiness,  93 — 
Fundamental  conditions,  94 — Count  your  blessings,  94 — Social  in- 
tercourse, 95 — A  guide,  95. 

Pratt,  Elder  Harold  W   81 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr   57 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   71 

Inspired  appointments,  71 — Thankful  for  restored  health,  72 — 
The  Gospel — what  it  is,  72 — Must  be  taught  the  law,  72 — Must 
be  born  again,  72 — The  only  true  mode  of  baptism,  73 — By  one 
having  authority,  73 — Conditions  prescribed,  74 — "Judged  accord- 
ing to  men  in  the  flesh,"  75 — A  vicarious  work,  75 — Saving  our 
dead,  75. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   59 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L.   33 

Phases  of  relief  program  cause  concern,  33 — Indication  of  suffer- 
ing and  distress,  33 — Maintain  self-respect,  34 — Factors  in  eco- 
nomic and  spiritual  welfare,  34 — Charity  seekers,  35 — "Spong- 
ing" on  the  government,  35 — Contempt  for  impostors,  35 — Far- 
reaching  results,  36 — The  Latter-day  Saint  attitude,  36 — To  restore 
our  morale,  36 — Latter-day  Saint  liberality,  37 — Outlook  for  com- 
ing winter,  37 — Basis  of  mutual  confidence,  37 — Thankful  for 
Church,  37. 

Richards,  Elder  Wilford  W   56 

Rowan,  Elder  Charles  E.,  Jr   20 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   67 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting    45 

Sloan,  Elder  William  R   79 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   25 

Smith,,  Elder  George  Albert   47 

A  marvelous  change,  47 — Recipe  for  true  happiness,  47 — Old  age 
pensions,  48 — The  Lord's  way,  48 — Our  leaders  today,  49 — Should 
be  industrious,  49 — The  faults  of  others,  50 — Following  the  narrow 
way,  50 — In  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  51 — In  this  build- 
ing, 51 — Three  mighty  men,  51 — Leaders  who  have  gone  home, 
52 — Opportunity  for  preparation,  52 — Sustaining  our  leaders,  53. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   63 

The  revealed  word  of  the  Lord,  63 — To  establish  truth  of  scrip- 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tares,  63 — Lack  of  faith  in  Christ's  mission,  64 — In  conflict  with 
God's  word,  64 — Bears  testimony  of  Christ  and  his  mission,  64 — 
Joseph  Smith  and  his  work,  65 — That  we  may  walk  in  the  truth,  65. 


Charges  in  Smoot  investigation,  68 — Faith  in  God  and  his  revela- 
tions, 68 — Tribute  to  the  Choir,  68 — Words  of  Orson  Hyde,  69 — 
Land  of  Palestine  blessed,  69 — Prophecy  fulfilled,  70 — Inspired 
utterances,  70 — Work  of  God,  70 — Prays  for  President  Grant,  71. 


No. deviation  from  fundamental  truth,  8 — The  story  of  man's  his-, 
torical  difficulty  and  success,  9 — The  Church  not  static,  9 — 
Application  of  eternal  principles  to  present  needs,  10 — Guided  by 
spirit  of  revelation,  10 — Mutual  understanding  and  comprehension, 
11 — The  spirit  of  light  and  truth,  11 — Bears  testimony,  12. 


Smoot,  Elder  Reed 


67 


Taylor,  Elder  John  H  

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting 
Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting 

Welling,  Elder  Arthur  

Wells,  Elder  John   

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S.  

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A  


38 
107 
89 
78 
29 
108 
8 


Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 


112 


A  Few  of  the  Books  that  will 
Help  You  to  Understand 
"Mormon  ism" 

The  Book  of  Mormon 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same  but  there  are  added  features  which  make  the  edition  more  complete. 

Missionary  Edition   #  .50 

Cloth  binding,  embossed   -   1.50 

Full  Morocco    3.00 

The  Gospel  and  Man's  Relationship  to 

Deity 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

"It  is  to  place  within  their  reach  a  brief  and  simple  exposition  of  the  first  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  that  this  work  has  been  prepared,  and  is  now  presented  to  the 
youth  of  Zion;  and  it  is  the  earnest  hope  of  the  author  that  by  a  patient  perusal  of 
these  pages  those  who  now  believe  the  Gospel  will  find  their  faith  strengthened  and 
confirmed;  and  those  who  do  not  believe  it  will  be  convinced  of  its  truth." 

Price    #1.25 

The  Story  and  Philosophy  of 
"Mormonism" 

BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Comprising  "The  Story"  as  told  in  addresses  at  Cornell  and  Michigan  Universities 
|  and  elsewhere,  followed  by  an  address  delivered  at  the  Panama-Pacific  Exposition, 
entitled  "The  Philosophical  Basis  of  'Mormonism.'  " 


Cloth      -r-      $  -75 

In  Search  of  Truth 

BY  ELDER  JOHN  A  WIDTSOE  OF  THE  QUORUM  OF  THE  TWELVE 
Bound  in  Art  Cloth   #1-00 


This  new  book  answers  the  questions,  "What  is  Science"  and  "How  does  the 
Church  view  Science."    A  practical  book  for  our  THINKING,  young  people. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


Mormonism 

and  n 

reemasonry 


Anthony  W.  Ivins 


"This  brief  treatise  is  addressed  primarily  to  the  members 
of  the  Masonic  fraternity.  The  author  requests  Masons  and 
others  who  may  read  it  to  patiently  consider  its  contents,  and 
in  a  spirit  of  fairness  and  reason  determine  whether  the 
ground  taken  by  the  writer  is  truth  or  error." 


Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

+  2%  Sales  Tax  in  Utah 


Distributed  by  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


