ONE  HUNDRED  EIGHTH 


ANNUAL 

onference 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

April  3,  4,  and  6,  1938 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

The  OLD  WITH  the  NEW  and  the  NEW  WITH  the  OLD 

JhsL  Book  ogL  yyi&wtotL 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  iour  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition  $  .50 

Cloth  Binding.  Embossed   1.50 

Full  Morocco   3.00 

J&adunqA.  off  JhsL  fi/wphst  QoMpk.  Smith* 

Selected  by  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

"Taken  from  his  sermons  and  writings  as  they  are  found  in  the  Documentary 
History  of  the  Church  and  written  or  published  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet's  ministry." 
Price  in  Cloth  $2.25 

Jtiuf*  to  Jhswfojcpf 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  waranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price   $1.00 

J/ul  U)ohfL  afc  (tfi&dowL 

By  JOHN  A.  WIDTOSE  and  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 

"A  Modern  Interpretation  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  showing  that  the  learning 
oi  the  last  century  confirms  the  teachings  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  to  enlighten 
the  individual  towards  a  conservation  of  health." 

Price  in  Cloth  Binding  $1.25 

In  Paper  Binding    .50 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


One  Hundred  Eighth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  and  Eighth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  Sunday,  Monday  and  Wednesday,  April  3,  4,  and  6,  1938. 

The  entire  proceedings  of  the  Conference  were  broadcast  by  radio, 
through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  for  the  benefit 
of  the  public  generally. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  at  each  of  the  sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  *,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L  Rich- 
ards, **,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles 
A.  Callis,  and  Albert  E.  Bowen. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy :  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John 
H.  Taylor,  ***. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder :  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the  fol- 
lowing assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
Patriarchs,  High  Priests,  Seventies  and  Elders  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake,  and 
Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents :  Frank  Evans,  Eastern  States ;  Bryant  S.  Hinck- 
ley, Northern  States ;  David  A.  Broadbent,  North  Central  States ;  Carl 
F.  Eyring,  New  England ;  Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Central  States ;  Merrill  D. 
Clayson,  Southern  States;  El  Ray  L.  Christiansen,  Texas;  William  T. 
Tew,  Jr.,  East  Central  States ;  William  W.  Seegmiller,  Western  States ; 
W.  Aird  MacDonald,  California;  Preston  Nibley,  Northwestern  States; 
Abel  S.  Rich,  Canada ;  Harold  W.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Orlando  C.  Williams, 
Spanish- American ;  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah. 


*George  Albert  Smith  was  absent,  visiting  missions  in  the  islands  of  the  Pacific. 
**Richard  R.  Lyman  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 
***Rufus  K.  Hardy  was  absent,  visiting  missions  in  the  islands  of  the  Pacific. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  One  Hundred  and  Eighth  Annual  Confer- 
ence was  held  Sunday  morning,  April  3,  1938,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m. 

Long  before  time  to  commence  the  Conference  every  seat  and  avail- 
able space  in  the  largeTabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  was  occupied. 
In  addition,  thousands  of  people  congregated  in  the  large  Assembly  Hall 
immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  and  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds, 
where,  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment  that  had  been  installed,  they 
listened  to  the  Conference  proceedings  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the 
Tabernacle. 

President  Grant  opened  the  Conference  by  announcing  that  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  would  furnish  the  music  for  this  session  and  would  join 
with  the  congregation  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Samuel  E.  Bringhurst,  President  of  the  Cottonwood  Stake. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  this  opportunity  of 
being  with  you  in  health  and  strength  to  enjoy  the  spirit  of  this  Con- 
ference. There  are  many  things  that  might  be  discussed,  many  things 
of  great  import  in  the  progress  and  welfare  of  this  people,  and  I  am 
sure  they  will  be  brought  out  during  the  Conference.  The  time  available 
to  me  prior  to  the  Tabernacle  broadcast  is  limited  and  will  permit  of 
brief  remarks  only. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  OBEDIENCE 

In  thinking  over  that  which  I  might  say  I  have  thought  of  many 
things,  and  among  other  things  one  of  the  greatest  and  most  important 
is  that  spirit  which  brings  us  to  a  unity  and  a  willingness  to  cooperate 
and  to  comply  with  the  desires  and  instructions  of  our  leaders,  and 
particularly  with  regard  to  the  observance  of  the  laws  and  command- 
ments of  the  Lord,  which  is  the  principle  of  obedience. 

When  Saul,  king  of  Israel,  was  instructed  by  Samuel  the  prophet 
to  fight  the  Amalekites,  who  had  been  a  bar  in  the  way  of  the  children 
of  Israel  in  their  trailing  through  the  wilderness,  he  failed  to  do  what 
he  was  instructed,  and  Samuel  rebuked  him  in  these  words : 

Hath  the  Lord  as  great  delight  in  burnt  offerings  and  sacrifices,  as 
in  obeying  the  word  of  the  Lord?  Behold,  to  obey  is  better  than  sacrifice 
and  to  hearken  than  the  fat  of  rams. 

Saul  was  rejected  by  the  Lord  as  a  result  of  his  disobedience  and 
failure  to  comply  with  the  instructions  which  he  had  received  from  the 
Lord's  servant. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


3 


RESULTS  OF  DISOBEDIENCE  COME  IN  NATURAL  WAY 

Now,  as  a  matter  of  fact  nothing  apparently  happened,  because 
Saul  continued  as  the  king  of  Israel.  Anyone  who  heard  that  statement 
of  Samuel's  might  have  concluded  that  it  had  failed.  But  Samuel  had 
gone,  under  the  instruction  of  the  Lord,  to  Bethlehem,  and  there  had 
selected  another  man  and  had  anointed  him  to  become  king  of  Israel.  I 
say  Saul  remained  as  king  for  some  time  before  the  judgment  of  the 
Lord  came  upon  him.  After  a  certain  time  he  went  into  battle  and  was 
killed  in  a  natural  way  in  the  fight.  And  that  I  think  is  an  evidence  of 
what  we  may  expect  of  mankind  wherever  we  live.  If  we  learn  to  obey 
the  instructions  that  are  given  us,  and  especially  if  there  come  to  us 
instructions  from  those  who  have  authority;  or  if  we  fail  to  comply 
with  the  laws  and  commandments  that  the  Lord  has  given  us,  we  are  in 
the  way  of  undergoing  condemnation.  It  may  come  about  in  a  perfectly 
natural  way,  because  obedience  or  disobedience  to  spiritual  or  natural 
law,  or  to  civil  law,  brings  the  reward  or  the  penalty  in  every  instance. 

THE  GOSPEL  A  PERFECT  LAW  OF  LIBERTY 

The  Apostle  James,  in  speaking  in  regard  to  the  importance  of 
observance  of  divine  law,  and  at  the  same  time  the  perfect  freedom  of 
agency  of  every  individual  to  do  as  he  or  she  chooses,  makes  this  state- 
ment : 

But  whoso  looketh  into  the  perfect  law  of  liberty,  and  continueth 
therein,  he  being  not  a  forgetful  hearer,  but  a  doer  of  the  work,  this 
man  shall  be  blessed  in  his  deed. 

Every  principle  given  to  us  of  the  Lord  as  a  part  of  the  Gospel  is  a 
law  of  liberty,  and  the  Gospel  as  a  whole  is  the  perfect  law  of 
liberty.  We  have  the  choice  whether  we  shall  accept  it  or  reject 
it,  whether  we  shall  live  it,  or  shall  fail  to  observe  its  commandments ; 
but  according  to  that  which  we  shall  do  shall  we  be  judged,  and  that  is 
perfect  fairness  and  justice,  not  only  in  this  life  but  in  the  life  to  come. 

OBSERVANCE  OF  LAW 

I  might  discourse  at  length,  but  time  will  not  permit,  with  regard 
to  the  benefits  that  come  to  us  through  the  observance  of  law.  As 
Latter-day  Saints  we  claim  to  obey,  honor,  and  sustain  the  laws  wherever 
we  may  be.  Any  man  or  woman,  any  boy  or  girl  who  fails  to  observe 
the  constitutional  laws,  man-made  though  they  may  be,  imperfect  though 
they  may  be — if  they  fail  to  observe  them  they  are  the  losers,  and  thereby 
if  law-breaking  continues  there  is  confusion  and  destruction  to  civiliza- 
tion, whether  in  the  community,  the  state,  the  nation,  or  the  world.  And 
to  that  extent  it  is  very  vital  that  we  should  realize  that  obedience  means 
compliance  with  law,  whether  it  is  civil,  natural,  or  spiritual.  It  is  of 
vital  importance  to  the  continuance  of  progress  of  civilization. 

SOURCE  OF  UNITY 

I  realize  and  you  realize  that  if  we  observe  to  do  what  the  Lord  has 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

commanded  us  and  expects  us  to  do,  we  shall  grow  in  unity  and  power, 
because  that  is  the  very  source  of  power  of  this  people — their  willingness 
to  comply  and  thereby  become  united.  Yet  they  lose  nothing  of  their 
individuality  or  their  understanding  or  their  intelligence  or  their  judg- 
ment. So  that  obedience  to  this  perfect  law  of  liberty  brings  us  joy 
and  blessings,  as  promised  by  the  Apostle  James. 

BLESSINGS  PREDICATED  UPON  OBEDIENCE 

You  will  remember  again  the  statement  made  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith : 

There  is  a  law  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven,  before  the  foundations 
of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated ;  and  when  we  obtain 
any  blessing  from  God  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon  which  it  is 
predicated. 

This  applies  to  every  principle  of  the  Gospel.  I  will  not  take  the 
time  to  discuss  them  in  detail,  I  need  only  say  to  you  that  every  principle 
of  the  Gospel  that  the  Lord  has  given  us  is  positive  and  forward-looking, 
and  everything  contrary  to  that  is  negative.  Thereby  we  may  conclude 
that  everything  we  learn  that  is  of  light  and  advancement,  that  is 
true  and  exalted  and  forward-looking  is  of  God  and  intended  for  the 
welfare  and  progress  of  mankind.  It  requires  action,  it  requires  dis- 
cernment, it  requires  judgment  to  observe  these  conditions  and  to  be 
obedient.  The  opposite  is  to  fail  and  to  neglect,  which  is  negative,  and 
only  brings  us  sorrow  and  sadness.  By  doing  wrong  things  we  are 
doing  negative  things ;  by  doing  right  things  we  are  doing  positive  things. 

DIVINE  PRINCIPLES 

Now,  without  going  into  detail,  because  time  will  not  permit,  I 
might  refer  you  to  some  of  the  things  the  Lord  has  commanded  us  to  do. 
In  the  first  place  he  has  commanded  us  to  teach  our  children  correct 
principles,  that  they  may  live  righteously,  that  they  may  grow  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  become  faithful,  active  men  and  women 
in  the  Church.  If  we  fail  to  do  that  as  fathers  and  mothers  we  shall 
lose  the  blessing  which  would  come  to  us  otherwise ;  and  if  our  children 
fail  to  receive  these  things  and  observe  them  they  will  also  lose  the 
blessing.  How  unfortunate  it  is  when  children  of  faithful,  upright 
parents,  either  through  lack  of  proper  watchcare,  training  or  spiritual, 
loving  influence  succumb  to  temptations  and  lose  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  \ 

If  we  fail  to  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom — that  great  standard 
of  physical  welfare — we  are  losing  control  of  our  better  selves.  If  we 
observe  it  we  learn  to  control  our  appetites  and  desires  and  our  passions, 
so  far  as  they  affect  us  physically.  One  course  is  positive.  It  means 
self-control.  The  other  is  negative.   It  produces  excesses. 

With  regard  to  the  observance  of  the  Sabbath  day:  If  we  live  in 
accordance  with  that  instruction  we  shall  grow  in  clear  thinking,  in  peace, 
and  in  right  living.  If  we  break  the  commandments  we  give  ourselves 
to  thoughtless  pleasure,  we  are  losing  that  sense  of  relationship  with  the 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


5 


divine  and  interfering  with  our  progress.  Likewise,  if  we  cultivate 
hatred,  envy,  and  jealousy  instead  of  cultivating  love,  we  develop  negative 
instead  of  positive  qualities — lower  instead  of  higher — and  suffer  thereby. 
On  the  contrary,  if  we  cultivate  love  for  our  fellow  men  generally  and 
all  who  are  dear  to  us,  and  for  our  Heavenly  Father,  then  we  grow  in 
righteousness,  peace  and  happiness. 

POSITIVE  QUALITIES  PROMOTE  REAL  HAPPINESS 

The  same  is  true  of  morality.  If  we  observe  the  principles  of  clean 
living  which  we  are  instructed  to  observe,  we  shall  grow  in  faith  and 
strength  and  power,  and  if  we  fail  to  do  so  we  shall  grow  in  vice  and 
licentiousness,  which  are  prevalent  throughout  the  world  today.  Another 
principle  that  develops  finer  characteristics  in  men  and  women  is  that  of 
fasting,  the  donating  of  the  value  of  the  food  that  would  otherwise  be 
consumed.  If  we  practice  it  we  develop  in  the  spirit  of  self-denial  and 
charity — two  of  the  greatest  qualities  we  can  possess.  Failure  to  live 
it  invites  selfishness,  and  hinders  proper  restraint.  Again,  if  we  are 
growing  in  faith  we  are  becoming  stronger  and  abler  spiritually  and 
thereby  we  shall  increase  in  unity.  On  the  contrary,  if  we  cultivate 
doubt,  and  carping  criticism,  we  hinder  advancement  and  lose  the  oppor- 
tunities that  are  ours.  Then  again,  if  we  fail  to  observe  the  law  of  tithing, 
a  divine  law  given  us  for  our  progress,  a  principle  with  a  promise,  we 
gain  spiritual  and  temporal  blessings.  If  we  disobey  it  those  benefits 
will  be  denied  us.  The  observance  of  these  principles  develops  the 
qualities  in  men  and  women  most  vital  to  civilization. 

I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  we  have  been  in- 
structed by  our  brethren  who  preside  over  the  Church  here  upon  the 
earth  to  observe  all  of  these  principles.  I  think  that  in  large  measure 
Latter-day  Saints  are  endeavoring  to  observe  them.  The  more  fully 
we  observe  them  the  greater  the  blessings  to  us.  We  are  the  ones  who 
gain  or  lose  by  living  or  failing  to  observe  these  commandments,  these 
instructions  and  principles. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  urge  upon  you  that,  as  far  as  you  have 
influence,  you  exercise  that  influence  with  the  Church  officers  and  mem- 
bers by  example  and  by  kindly  encouragement,  to  observe  every  principle 
which  the  Lord  has  given  through  his  servants.  Such  observance  inures 
first  to  the  welfare  and  progress  of  the  individual,  and,  secondly,  for  the 
Church  as  a  whole. 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  CHURCH  OFFICERS 

I  remember  that  six  months  ago  President  Grant  gave  certain 
instructions  with  regard  to  what  is  expected  of  the  officers  of  the  Church 
in  the  observance  of  its  principles.  I  think  there  should  be  no  neglect 
or  failure  whatever  in  our  faithful  observance  of  these  things.  There 
is  every  reason  why  every  man  or  woman  who  receives  authority  in  this 
Church  should  set  the  example  of  righteous  living  in  every  way.  The 
giving  of  authority  requires  a  faithful  compliance  with  every  request 
made  of  us.   Further,  there  is  no  request  made  that  is  not  reasonable. 


6 

Sunday,  April  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Time  will  not  permit  my  speaking  further.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless 
us  continually  and  may  his  choice  favors  continue  with  us  throughout 
this  Conference,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10 :30  to  1 1 :00  a.  m.  the  following  program 
of  choral  and  organ  music  was  presented  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ,  in  the  Tabernacle,  as  a  part  of  the  General  Conference  session, 
and  was  broadcast  by  radio  throughout  the  United  States  and  Canada 
by  the  courtesy  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System,  originating  over 
Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City: 


"Again  as  Evening's  Shadow  Falls"  (Fletcher)   Choir 

"In  Springtime"  (Kinder)   Organ 

"The  Morning  Breaks"  (Careless)   Male  Choir 

"To  Thee,  O  Lord"  (Kalinnikoff)   Choir 

Hymn  arrangements  by  organist  Organ 

"Praise"  (Rowley)  Choir 


The  Choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Organ  accom- 
paniments and  Organ  solo  presentations  were  played  by  Frank  W.  Asper. 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 

Immediately  following  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast, 
the  following  program  was  presented  on  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  Sys- 
tem's Church  of  the  Air  series : 

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  Say, 
What  is  Truth?" 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Observing  the  orderliness  and  unity  of  purpose  obtaining  among  his 
followers,  who  had  been  gathered  from  various  countries  of  the  world 
and  from  numerous  nationalities  and  creeds,  a  visitor  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  asked: 

"Mr.  Smith,  how  do  you  govern  these  people?" 

Promptly  came  the  pregnant  reply,  "I  teach  them  correct  principles 
and  they  govern  themselves." 

Thus  tersely  is  stated  a  concept  fundamental  in  the  creed  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints — self-government  fashioned 
upon  fixed  and  enduring  principles.  It  is  a  statement  of  the  ideal  in 
government.  As  concerns  the  individual,  it  is  a  statement  of  the  law  of 
progress,  the  law  of  salvation. 

STABILIZING  POWER  OF  AN  ULTIMATE  AIM 


The  discovery  of  eternal,  unchanging  principles,  upon  which  the 
lives  of  men  may  securely  be  built,  is  the  end  of  all  search.   We  believe 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


7 


that  such  principles  are  to  be  found  in  the  teachings  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth. 
Those  teachings  constitute  our  religion,  whose  mission  it  is  to  lead  men 
to  exercise  over  themselves  a  moral  restraint,  to  curb  the  desires  of  their 
hearts,  to  guide  their  thoughts  and  actions  into  true  channels,  and  to  tie 
themselves  down  to  the  precepts  of  divine  justice  that  they  may  be  pre- 
pared for  the  eternity  of  life  and  progress  that  lies  beyond. 

Everyone  must  feel  the  need  for  an  ultimate  aim  in  life — an  abiding 
purpose.  Without  it  there  would  be  nothing  to  stand  between  a  person 
and  a  surrender  to  the  fitful  direction  of  casual  impulses.  Many  men 
who  do  not  consider  themselves  religious  nevertheless  have  high  objec- 
tives and  pursue  them  with  fidelity,  but  they  have  adopted  from  some 
source  a  body  of  principles  which  constitute  their  code  of  living.  Without 
the  stabilizing  power  of  such  guides  a  man's  life  would  be  "like  the  waves 
of  the  sea,  driven  with  the  wind  and  tossed."  There  could  result  only 
futility  of  action  and  frustration  of  purpose. 

SELF-GOVERNMENT  BASED  ON  OBSERVANCE  OF  CORRECT  PRINCIPLES 

In  secular  relations  the  necessity  for  guiding  principles  has  long  been 
recognized.  The  whole  body  of  our  law  has  grown  up  out  of  the  need 
for  certainty.  It  constitutes  a  body  of  principles  by  which  men  regulate 
their  relations.  If  there  were  no  such  fixed  guides  subscribed  to  and 
faithfully  observed  in  the  great  majority  of  instances,  there  could  be  no 
dealing.  Distress  and  confusion  would  reign  supreme  just  as  it  does 
today  in  the  family  of  nations. 

Furthermore,  if  the  process  of  the  law  had  to  be  invoked  to  compel 
obedience  to  its  established  principles  in  every  transaction  in  which  men 
engaged,  human  intercourse  would  be  impossible.  The  whole  legal 
mechanism  would  come  tumbling  down  of  its  own  weight.  Human  so- 
ciety is  able  to  carry  on  only  because  the  vast  majority  of  men  freely  and 
voluntarily  and  as  a  matter  of  individual  morality  conform  their  con- 
duct to  the  body  of  principles  laid  down  in  the  law.  Indeed,  because  they 
observe  principles  of  morality  which  have  not  been  enacted  into  law — -but 
are  outside  of  and  above  its  compulsions — they  are  self-governing,  which 
brings  us  back  to  the  second  proposition  of  our  discussion:  Having 
been  taught  correct  principles,  "They  govern  themselves." 

Any  system  of  government  which  depends  for  its  continuance  upon 
the  compelled  obedience  of  any  considerable  part  of  its  citizens  is  fore- 
doomed to  ultimate  failure,  because  it  is  violative  of  the  principle  of  free- 
dom which  is  a  God-given  quality  coextensive  with  life,  and,  like  life, 
one  of  man's  inalienable  rights. 

U.  S.  CONSTITUTION  PROTECTS  RIGHT  OF  SELF-GOVERNMENT 

What  Lincoln  called  the  sentiments  of  the  Declaration  of  Independ- 
ence— the  whole  essence  of  it — is  that  every  human  being,  and  every 
community  of  human  beings,  has  some  rights  which  no  power  on  earth, 
not  even  government  itself,  is  authorized  to  infringe.  Every  line  in  that 
Declaration  is  repugnant  to  the  present  day  revival,  in  parts  of  the  world, 
of  the  anachronistic  dogma  which  undertakes  to  regiment  the  lives  of 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

men  into  mere  vassalage  to  the  state.  Such  philosophy  is  in  brutal  contra- 
diction of  the  basic  concepts  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ;  which  teaches 
that  man,  the  spirit  of  him,  was  in  the  beginning  with  God ;  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  in  truth  his  elder  brother ;  that  as  the  offspring  of  Deity,  through 
free  acceptance  of  and  adherence  to  the  eternal  law  of  progress,  man's 
congenital  immortality  may  unfold  till  he  reaches  the  plane  achieved  by 
his  "elder  brother".  This,  the  very  essence  of  the  theology  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  is  flatly  denied  by  the  totalitarian  whose  chief  exponent  has 
said  that  the  ideal  of  happiness  and  indefinite  progress  is  a  "myth,"  and 
the  inevitable  consequence  of  whose  teaching  is  the  exaltation  of  the  bar- 
barities of  paganism  over  the  humane  precepts  of  the  Son  of  Man. 

The  people  of  America  have  been  the  freest  people  on  earth  precise- 
ly because  more  of  the  activities  of  life  have  here  been  left  to  self-direction 
than  has  been  the  case  anywhere  else  and  the  domain  occupied  by  govern- 
ment has  been  correspondingly  more  circumscribed.  It  is  an  historical 
certainty  that  the  express  purpose  of  the  framers  of  the' Constitution  of 
the  United  States  was  to  establish  under  it  a  government  for  the  protec- 
tion of  their  newly  won  liberties.  Its  highest  sanctions  are  free  speech, 
free  press,  free  elections,  a  free  legislature,  a  free  judiciary  and  a  definite 
limitation  upon  the  powers  of  government  over  the  lives  of  men.  All 
these  the  modernistic  despotisms — under  whatever  name — deny. 

Latter-day  Saints  believe  that  these  are  divine  principles  and  that 
the  men  who  formulated  them  into  a  system  of  government  were  acting 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty,  in  the  majesty  of  whose  name  every 
man  who  comes  into  office  under  it  binds  himself  by  oath  that  he  will  pre- 
serve and  defend  it.  Here  we  clasp  hands  with  the  Honorable  Hatton 
W.  Sumners,  chairman  of  the  Judiciary  Committee  of  the  House  of  Rep- 
resentatives of  the  United  States,  who  recently  said : 

They  were  great  men  who  sat  in  the  Constitutional  Convention  but  it 
has  been  withheld  from  human  genius  to  write  the  constitution  of  a  living 
government.  It  never  has  been  done  and  never  will  be  in  a  creative  sense. 
Our  Constitution  came  from  the  same  source  that  trees  came  from.  .  .  . 
The  people  no  longer  believe  that  there  lived  at  one  time  a  group  of  super- 
men, who  met  in  a  convention  and  out  of  their  own  creative  genius 
fashioned  the  constitution  of  a  living  government.  .  .  .  The  fact  of  it  is 
our  Constitution  is  worthy  of  all  reverence  among  a  people  who  love  liberty, 
because  it  came  from  God  Almighty. 

Parenthetically  may  I  remark  that  in  this  sabre-rattling,  demagogue- 
shouting,  Deity-banishing  age  of  arrogant  self-sufficiency,  it  is  refreshing 
to  hear  words  of  humility  issuing  from  the  mouth  of  one  in  high  station. 

PERFECTION  POSSIBLE 

Freedom  signifies  more  than  a  release  from  outward  restraint.  It 
is  an  essence,  a  quality  of  the  spirit  whose  rarest  blossoms,  in  an  atmos- 
phere of  oppression,  wither  and  die.  As  is  said  by  Justice  Maxy,  "Where- 
ever  autocracy  has  prevailed,  thought  has  been  enslaved,  society  stratified 
into  castes  and  enterprise  discouraged.  The  era  of  Autocracy  Ascendant 
was  the  'dark  ages  of  the  world'.  Progress  came  only  when  shackles 
began  to  be  loosed  from  minds  and  chains  from  limbs." 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


9 


In  our  conception,  the  whole  purpose  and  object  of  life  is  to  achieve 
individual  perfection  through  the  unfolding  of  individual  potentialities 
and  the  ripening  of  all  the  virtues.  Learning,  extension  of  horizons, 
expansion  of  vision,  poise  of  character,  serenity  of  soul — these  coveted 
fruits  of  the  spirit — are  the  consequence  of  voluntary  free  acts.  In  the 
foul  and  noisome  air  of  despotism  they  may  neither  quicken  nor  flower. 
They  are  outside  the  power  of  human  bestowal  or  coercion ;  they  are  in 
the  realm  of  freedom.  As  these  transcend  physical  acquisitions  in  value, 
so  the  principle  of  freedom  transcends  the  power  of  force  or  compulsion. 

It  is  said  that  in  the  seed  is  a  complete  design  of  the  tree.  Planted 
in  fertile  soil,  moistened  by  gently  falling  rains,  warmed  by  the  caressing 
rays  of  an  effulgent  sun,  it  unfolds :  roots,  trunk,  branches,  blossoms 
and  fruit,  the  completed  realization  of  its  design.  No  amount  of  des- 
potic terrorism  can  cause  a  seed  to  unfold  into  a  tree. 

Our  institutions  which  protect  us  in  our  freedom  of  thought  and  of 
worship  were  the  product  of  a  thousand  years  of  struggle  against  tyranny. 
But  they  have  no  guarantee  of  immortality  except  such  guarantee  as 
inheres  in  the  will  and  the  fitness  of  our  people  to  be  free. 

Freedom  is  not  bestowed ;  it  is  achieved.  It  is  not  a  gift,  but  a  con- 
quest.  It  does  not  abide ;  it  must  be  preserved. 

When  signing  the  Constitution  Franklin  said  that  the  government 
it  created  "can  only  end  in  despotism  .  .  .  when  the  people  become  so 
corrupted  as  to  need  a  despotic  government,  being  incapable  of  any  other." 

So  important  is  the  principle  of  liberty,  so  essential  is  it  to  man's 
higher  self-realization  and  so  inexorably  necessary  to  the  dignity  of  his 
status  as  the  issue  of  Deity  that  the  omnipotent  God  himself  does  not 
countenance  compulsion.  Ample  ancient  and  modern  evidences  of  this 
have  been  scripturally  recorded.  For  example,  when  the  Prophet  Samuel 
was  grown  old  the  people  of  Israel  requested  of  him  that  he  make  them 
a  king  to  judge  them  "like  all  the  nations."  Samuel  was  disturbed, 
thinking  that  Israel  had  repudiated  him,  but  the  Lord  comforted  him 
with  these  words :  "Hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the  people  in  all  that  they 
say  unto  thee,  for  they  have  not  rejected  thee,  but  they  have  rejected 
me,  that  I  should  not  reign  over  them."  Certainly  there  is  nothing  here 
of  compulsion  on  the  part  of  One  omnipotent. 

Closer  to  us  in  time,  there  is  a  like  example  of  the  Lord's  respect 
for  the  liberty  of  men.  Nine  years  after  the  organization  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  (one  hundred  and  eight  years  ago 
next  Wednesday)  came  the  revealed  law  that  the  Priesthood  of  God, 
the  governing  authority  of  the  Church,  neither  could  nor  ought  to  be 
maintained  except  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and 
meekness  and  by  love  unfeigned ;  by  kindness  and  pure  knowledge,  and 
that  it  could  not  with  impunity  be  exercised  to  gratify  pride  or  ambition 
or  to  gain  unjust  control  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  men. 

Self-government  involves  self-control,  self-discipline,  an  acceptance 
of  and  the  most  unremitting  obedience  to  correct  principles.  Its  de- 
mands are  commensurate  with  its  high  privileges.  Duties  are  the  insepar- 
able companions  of  rights.  No  other  form  of  government  requires  so 
high  a  degree  of  individual  morality.  "It  is  ordained  in  the  eternal  con- 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

stitution  of  things,"  said  Burke,  "that  men  of  intemperate  minds  cannot 
be  free."  It  is  one  of  the  missions  of  the  Church  to  foster  in  men  those 
virtues,  without  which  there  can  be  no  self-government,  and  the  alter- 
native to  which  is  the  mentally  and  spiritually  sterilizing  scourge  of 
tyranny. 

Before  we  import  despotic  principles  into  our  own  land,  which 
are  so  raucously  clamoring  for  admission,  we  would  better  count  the  costs. 
Three  weeks  ago  I  read  one  morning  the  sickening,  revolting  story  of  an 
old  world  trial  where  the  mockery  of  it  was  rendered  the  more  cruel  by 
the  observance  of  outward  legal  form  but  devoid  of  every  semblance  of 
justice  as  known  to  free  men.  The  sole  offense  of  the  accused  was 
political  disagreement  with  the  will  of  the  dictator.  Then  I  walked  into 
a  United  States  Court  where  a  Grand  Jury  was  being  impanelled.  It 
comprised  16  men  of  the  district  of  varied  stations  in  life.  They  were 
instructed  that  under  the  Constitution  no  one  could  be  called  to  answer 
for  an  offense  against  the  government  except  upon  presentment  by  a 
Grand  Jury ;  and  that  they  alone,  without  fear  or  favor,  without  regard 
to  the  station  of  the  accused,  be  it  high  or  low,  without  extraneous  influ- 
ence of  any  sort,  but  solely  upon  the  evidence,  must  decide  whether  in- 
dictments should  be  returned. 

Thank  God  for  Liberty ! 

May  we  and  all  the  generations  to  come  be  as  heroic  in  its  preser- 
vation as  were  the  Fathers  in  its  establishment,  that  in  our  land  freedom 
may  abide  forever. 

Selection  by  Male  Chorus,  "Praise  to  the  Lord,"  (Storl-Cornwall) 
"Praise  God  from  Whom  All  Blessings  Flow"  was  sung  by  the  Choir 
and  congregation. 

After  the  conclusion  of  the  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast,  at  the  re- 
quest of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "O, 
Ye  Mountains  High." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  sure  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  within  the  sound  of  my  voice 
has  had  great  pleasure  in  listening  to  our  program  here  this  morning. 
I  am  sure  that  the  testimony  and  the  fine  teachings  of  our  Presiding 
Bishop  have  found  echo  in  the  hearts  of  all  of  you.  I  am  sure  that 
every  Latter-day  Saint  who  believes,  according  to  a  declaration  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  the  men  who  wrote  the  Constitution  were 
inspired  of  the  living  God,  has  rejoiced  in  Elder  Bowen's  remarks  here 
this  morning,  and  that  the  things  he  has  said  have  found  an  echo  in  the 
hearts  of  all  of  you. 

EXPERIENCES  IN  BORROWING  MONEY 

Speaking  of  this  song  that  we  have  just  sung,  some  of  the  words  of 
which  are,  "On  the  necks  of  our  foes  we  shall  tread,"  etc.,  I  had  the 
pleasure  of  singing  it  while  coming  down  from  Pine  Crest  (Emigration 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


Canyon)  in  an  automobile,  to  a  dear  friend  of  mine  who  is  in  the  banking 
business,  Mr.  Fred  W.  Shibley.  Mr.  Shibley  came  to  Utah  to  represent 
the  banks  of  New  York,  Chicago,  San  Francisco  and  other  places,  that 
had  lent  $12,535,000  to  the  Utah-Idaho  Sugar  Company. 

When  these  loans  were  negotiated  sugar  was  selling  for  $17.00  a 
bag  of  100  pounds.  When  the  beets  were  turned  into  sugar,  sugar  was 
selling  at  $5.00  a  bag.  We  paid  $12.00  a  ton  for  the  beets  and  we  ex- 
pected to  make  four  or  five  million  dollars,  but  we  had  a  loss  of  more 
than  $5,800,000.  We  expected  to  have  all  our  debts  paid  but  we  found 
ourselves  in  debt  $7,535,000,  and  we  needed  some  more  for  our  next 
season's  crop  of  beets.  We  had  a  practical  illustration  of  Victor  Hugo's 
remarks  that  "Gratitude  is  a  lively  sense  of  favors  to  come."  Our  farm- 
ers received  over  $5,000,000  more  than  their  beets  were  worth,  but  the 
following  year  nearly  all  of  our  factories  had  to  lie  idle  because  the  price 
of  beets  was  not  high  enough. 

I  went  East  to  get  a  renewal  of  $7,000,000  of  obligations  with  the 
banks,  and  in  addition  to  borrow  $2,800,000,  instead  of  $12,000,000  as 
the  year  before.  I  had  difficulty  in  getting  the  company  notes  ;  but  finally 
the  bankers  agreed  to  do  so,  and  we  were  very  grateful.  They  positively 
refused  to  lend  us  a  dollar,  however,  in  order  to  purchase  preferred 
stock.  I  offered  them  local  collateral  and  they  asked  for  something  that 
would  sell  on  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange.  I  told  them  that  I  did 
not  have  any  stocks  or  bonds  that  would  sell  on  the  New  York  Stock 
Exchange.  One  of  the  great  bankers  said,  "Give  us  some  Union  Pacific 
preferred  stocks  or  bonds." 

I  said:  "You  must  have  been  listening  to  Lulu  Shepherd,  perhaps 
the  greatest  female  liar  that  ever  drew  the  breath  of  life.  She  announced 
that  I  as  President  of  the  Mormon  Church  had  over  $100,000,000  in 
Union  Pacific  and  other  railroad  preferred  stocks  and  bonds." 

I  had  only  one  certificate  of  five  shares  of  the  common  stock  of  the 
Union  Pacific,  and  that  was  in  my  name.  I  had  it  transferred  from 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  back  to  the  Church,  and  then  I  had  it  trans- 
ferred to  myself,  hoping  to  be  elected  a  director,  but  "another  Pharaoh 
arose  that  did  not  know  Joseph,"  and  I  did  not  get  the  job.  {Laughter) 
A  year  later,  however,  somehow  or  other  they  got  acquainted  with 
"Joseph,"  and  then  I  got  the  job. 

INCIDENTS  IN  REGARD  TO  "o  YE  MOUNTAINS  HIGH" 

I  took  Mr.  Shibley  to  one  of  our  scenic  wonders — Brighton — and 
seeing  there  in  her  mother's  cottage,  next  door,  the  good  wife  of  the  man 
who  has  been  talking  to  us  today  (Albert  E.  Bowen),  I  suggested  that 
we  go  over  to  their  cottage  and  hear  somebody  sing  who  knew  how  to 
sing.  We  did  so,  and  I  said,  "Now,  Emma  Lou,  I  sang  the  song,  'O  Ye 
Mountains  High,'  for  Mr.  Shibley,  and  I  would  really  like  to  have  him 
hear  someone  sing  it  who  knows  how  to  sing."  She  sat  down  at  the  piano, 
and  turned  around  and  said,  "Of  course,  President  Grant,  you  do  not 
want  me  to  sing  all  four  verses." 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

I  said,  "I  have  already  trod  'on  the  necks  of  our  foes  'and  made  the 
'Gentiles  bow  beneath  our  rod,'  give  him  all  four.  {Laughter.) 

After  she  had  finished  singing,  I  said :  "Mr.  Shibley,  it  must  have 
shocked  you  for  me,  the  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  claiming  that  Jesus  Christ  himself  organized  it, 
claiming  that  God  introduced  Jesus  Christ  to  the  boy  prophet,  and  be- 
lieving in  the  teachings  of  the  Savior  that  we  should  turn  the  other  cheek 
and  love  our  enemies — it  must  have  been  a  great  shock  to  you  to  hear 
me  singing  that  we  should  'tread  on  the  necks  of  our  foes,'  and  that  'the 
Gentiles  should  bow  beneath  our  rod;'  so,  I  have  arranged  with  the 
author,  Charles  W.  Penrose,  who  is  now  in  his  89th  year  and  is  as  lively 
and  wide  awake  and  as  fine  a  preacher  as  anyone  in  the  whole  Church, 
that  after  he  passes  away  we  will  quit  treading  on  the  necks  of  our  foes." 

Our  old  song  books,  however,  have  not  been  changed,  but  we  are 
now  singing,  "Without  fear  of  our  foes  we  shall  tread." 

Mr.  Shibley  said :  "Don't  you  do  it ;  I  am  a  student  of  the  Bible, 
although  agnostic,  and  that  is  a  Bible  figurative  expression.  You  do 
not  expect  to  step  on  the  necks  of  your  foes,  but  you  do  expect  your 
foes  to  bow  the  neck  to  the  rod  of  righteousness.  Leave  it  alone,  it  is 
only  once  in  a  lifetime  that  a  man  gives  off  as  inspirational  a  song  as 
that." 

I  said:  "I  have  already  pledged  myself  to  change  it  after  Brother 
Penrose  dies." 

But  lo,  and  behold,  after  hearing  this  compliment  by  a  non-member 
of  the  Church  I  am,  when  singing  it  personally,  going  to  make  them 
bow  to  the  rod  of  righteousness,  even  though  it  has  been  changed  in 
the  book. 

It  is  only  fair  to  all  of  you  to  know  that  Charles  W.  Penrose  spent 
ten  long  years  of  his  life  preaching  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  his 
native  land,  England,  without  purse  or  scrip,  and  then  he  came  to  the 
valleys  of  the  mountains ;  but  before  coming  here  he  wrote  this  beautiful, 
inspired  hymn,  without  having  seen  our  country.  We  feel  that  he  was 
not  only  inspired  as  a  poet,  but  he  was  inspired  to  describe  our  great  and 
wonderful  country. 

There  are  two  spirits  striving  with  all  men — one  telling  them  what 
to  do  that  is  right,  and  one  telling  them  what  to  do  that  will  please  them- 
selves, that  will  gratify  their  own  pride  and  ambition.  If  we  live  as  we 
ought  to  live  we  will  always  follow  that  spirit  that  teaches  us  to  do  that 
which  is  right. 

REPENTANCE  MEANS  FORSAKING  OF  SIN 

I  have  heard  many,  since  my  talk  here  six  months  ago,  say  that  tith- 
ing is  a  free-will  offering  and  that  Heber  Grant  is  laying  down  a  law. 
Tithing  is  a  law  of  God  and  not  Heber  Grant's  law.  It  is  God  who  said 
that  the  people  were  robbing  him — those  who  did  not  pay  their  tithing — 
not  I.  I  can  forgive  any  man  almost  any  great  sin  if  he  repents,  and 
"By  this  ye  may  know  if  a  man  repenteth  of  his  sins — behold,  he  will 
confess  them  and  forsake  them."    It  does  not  do  me  individually  any 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


good  or  any  harm,  no  matter  how  a  man  lives,  but  I  know  as  I  know  that 
I  live  that  every  man  who  serves  God  with  full  purpose  of  heart  is  reap- 
ing a  remarkable  and  wonderful  reward.  "Men  are  that  they  might  have 
joy,"  as  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  there  are  no  people  on 
the  face  of  the  earth  that  have  more  real  joy,  more  contentment,  more 
peace  of  mind,  more  true  happiness,  than  those  who  have  a  knowledge 
that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  the 
Redeemer  of  mankind,  our  Savior,  and  who  are  living  the  laws  that  he 
has  taught  us.  It  brings  a  peace,  a  joy,  and  a  satisfaction  into  the  heart 
that  money  can  not  buy  and  that  nothing  else  can  buy. 

I  have  had  men  all  over  this  country,  during  my  long  life,  say 
to  me :  "Mr.  Grant,  your  teachings  are  in  harmony  with  the  Bible,  but 
I  can  not  accept  your  teachings  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God." 

Speaking  of  our  principles  being  in  harmony  with  the  Bible,  when 
I  reached  Chicago,  going  East  with  Mr.  Shibley,  I  handed  him  a  couple 
of  tracts  to  read.  One  of  them  was  entitled,  "Joseph  Smith  Tells  His 
Own  Story." 

By  the  way,  Mr.  Shibley  made  a  very  remarkable  and  wonderfully 
favorable  report  regarding  our  company,  and  recommended  to  the  bank- 
ers that  they  lend  us  the  money  we  wanted  with  which  to  buy  preferred 
stock,  in  order  to  get  a  renewal  of  the  $7,000,000  we  owed  them,  but  they 
would  not  do  so.  However,  later,  when  Brother  Smoot  got  us  $10,000,000 
from  Uncle  Sam  they  concluded  to  let  us  have  the  more  than  two  million 
dollars  with  which  to  pay  for  the  preferred  stock.  They  were  a  good 
deal  like  the  fellow  who  went  to  the  bank  to  get  his  money; — there  was 
a  run  on  the  bank — and  they  offered  it  to  him.  He  said :  "What !  Have 
you  got  it?  If  you  have  it,  I  do  not  want  it;  if  you  don't  have  it  I  want 
it  awfully  bad." 

AN  AGNOSTIC'S  OPINION  OF  JOSEPH  SMITHES  STORY 

After  reading  the  tract,  "Joseph  Smith  Tells  His  Own  Story,"  Mr. 
Shibley  said  to  my  son-in-law,  Robert  L.  Judd  (who  had  lunch  with 
him)  :  "Do  you  know,  that  story  of  Joseph  Smith's  is  true.  No  liar 
ever  wrote  such  a  story.  Liars  do  not  go  into  details.  By  every  rule 
of  my  life  to  discover  the  truth  this  story  is  true.  No  liar  would  ever 
think  of  such  a  thing  as  saying  that  the  Angel  Moroni,  who  appeared  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  who  afterwards  gave  him  the  golden  plates  from 
which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated,  had  on  a  loose  robe,  and 
that  it  was  open,  and  that  he  could  see  his  bosom." 

And  he  pounded  the  table,  so  my  son-in-law  told  me,  when  he 
said  it.  "No  liar  would  ever  think  of  saying  that  the  angel's  feet  did 
not  quite  touch  the  floor  and  that  the  robe  came  to  his  ankles.  Liars 
learn  a  story  off  by  heart  and  stick  to  it,  and  they  never  go  into  details." 

When  he  was  here  he  went  back  into  the  records  of  the  Sugar  Com- 
pany for  twenty  years.  I  wondered  "What  on  earth  is  he  going  back  so 
far  for?"  and  when  I  heard  of  this  remark  I  knew  he  was  looking  for 
something  crooked  and  he  did  not  find  it,  and  that  is  why  he  made  such 
an  optimistic  report,  in  my  judgment. 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 


ARGUMENTS  IN  TRACT  UNANSWERABLE 

The  other  tract  that  I  gave  him  was,  "My  Reasons  for  Joining  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  Leaving  the  Church  of 
England."   When  I  had  lunch  with  Mr.  Shibley  the  next  day  he  said : 

"Mr  Grant,  I  am  a  student  of  the  Bible,  although  an  agnostic,  but 
if  I  actually  believed  the  Bible  I  would  be  almost  compelled  to  join  your 
Church.  I  say  to  you  that  no  believer  in  the  Bible  can  gainsay  these 
arguments.  That  tract  by  your  religious  friend  is  unanswerable,  but 
do  you  know,  I  have  written  books  myself  and  I  think  I  could  write  a 
better  reason  for  leaving  the  Church  of  England  and  joining  your 
Church  than  he  wrote? 

I  said :  "Mr.  Shibley,  please  remember  that  this  man  who  knew  the 
Bible  so  well  and  gave  so  many  scriptural  references  to  sustain  our  doc- 
trines which  you  say  are  unanswerable — please  remember  that  he  had 
reached  the  age  of  retiring  on  a  pension  of  $5,000  a  year  as  a  Colonel 
in  the  British  army,  and  that  he  had  been  known  as  a  God-fearing  man, 
a  truly  religious  man  all  his  life,  and  please  remember  that  when  he 
joined  the  Mormon  Church  he  received  letters  from  India  and  other 
places  in  the  world  asking,  Why  have  you  joined  these  awful  Mormons  ?" 

We  all  know  of  the  drivings  and  the  persecutions  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  New  York;  of  the  loss  of  our  temple  and  being  driven  from 
Ohio ;  of  the  order  of  the  Governor  of  the  State  of  Missouri  that  we  leave 
the  state  or  we  would  be  annihilated ;  that  we  were  driven  out  of  Nauvoo, 
Illinois,  and  our  temple  destroyed  by  fire ;  and  that  finally  we  traveled 
1500  miles  to  these  valleys.  And  what  was  this  country  at  that  time? 
A  great  sagebrush  plain.  One  of  the  three  women  in  the  Pioneer  com- 
pany remarked :  "Worn  and  weary  as  I  am,  I  would  sooner  go  another 
thousand  miles  than  stop  in  such  a  desolate  place,"  and  one  of  the  others 
echoed  that  sentiment.  But  Brigham  Young  said:  "This  is  the  place, 
and  here  we  will  build  an  empire  and  a  temple  to  our  God." 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG'S  PLANS  FOR  EMPIRE 

If  Brigham  Young  had  got  all  he  asked  for,  for  the  new  State  of 
Deseret,  we  would  have  built  an  empire  here.  What  did  he  ask  for? 
There  was  then  no  California,  no  Nevada,  no  Idaho,  no  New  Mexico, 
no  Arizona.  He  asked  for  all  of  Utah,  much  of  Wyoming,  nearly  all 
of  Colorado,  enough  of  New  Mexico  to  get  the  San  Juan  River,  every 
foot  of  Arizona  and  Nevada,  to  the  Sierra  Nevada  Mountains.  He 
established  a  colony  at  the  foot  of  the  Sierra  Nevada  Mountains.  He 
sent  his  pioneers  and  representatives  across  the  Colorado  River  and  es- 
tablished a  colony  in  what  afterwards  became  the  state  of  Arizona.  He 
asked  for  fully  one-third  of  California.  He  asked  in  plain  English  for 
every  drop  of  water  that  flows  into  the  Hoover  Dam.  Please  remember 
the  name,  never  forget  it.  (Laughter.)  Every  drop  of  that  water  would 
have  belonged  to  the  State  of  Deseret.  Los  Angeles  would  have  belonged 
to  us.  We  established  a  great  colony  at  San  Bernardino  and  we  estab- 
lished a  colony  way  up  in  the  northern  part  of  Idaho,  but  the  government 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


15 


of  the  United  States,  because  of  the  lies  of  some  run-away  judges,  sent 
the  army  of  the  United  States  against  our  people  here  and  all  those  out- 
side colonies  were  abandoned. 

I  am  going  to  get  another  chance  at  you  this  afternoon  and  on 
several  other  occasions,  and  I  see  there  are  only  a  few  minutes  left. 

OFFICERS  URGED  TO  KEEP  COMMANDMENTS 

I  want  to  leave  with  this  vast  audience  my  deep  appreciation  of  all 
that  has  been  said.  I  endorse  it  with  all  my  heart,  and  I  renew  again 
everything  that  I  said  in  the  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  at  the  close  of  our 
Conference  six  months  ago.  I  ask  every  man  and  woman  occupying  a 
place  of  responsibility  whose  duty  it  is  to  teach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  live  it  and  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  so  that  their  example 
will  teach  it ;  and  if  they  can  not  live  it  we  will  go  on  loving  them,  we 
will  go  on  putting  our  arms  around  them,  we  will  go  on  praying  for 
them  that  they  may  become  strong  enough  to  live  it.  But  unless  they 
are  able  to  live  it  we  ask  them  to  please  step  aside  so  that  those  who  are 
living  it  can  teach  it.  No  man  can  teach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  living  God  and  with  power  from  on  high  unless 
he  is  living  it.  He  can  go  on  as  a  member  and  we  will  pray  for  him,  no 
matter  how  many  years  it  may  require,  and  we  will  never  put  a  block  in 
his  way,  because  the  Gospel  is  one  of  love  and  of  forgiveness,  but  we 
want  true  men  and  women  as  our  officers  in  the  Priesthood  and  in  the 
Relief  Societies.  And  a  man  has  no  right  to  be  in  a  high  council  who 
can  not  stand  up  and  say  that  he  knows  the  Gospel  is  true  and  that  he 
is  living  it. 

May  God  help  us  to  live  the  Gospel,  that  our  light  shall  shine  before 
those  who  know  not  the  truth.  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live  that  God 
lives,  that  he  is  my  Father,  that  he  hears  and  answers  my  prayers.  I 
know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God,  my  Elder  Brother.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet 
of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  and  that  he  was  the  instrument  in  the 
hands  of  God  of  again  restoring  to  the  earth  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

May  God  bless  you,  one  and  all,  and  every  honest  man  and  woman 
that  lives  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in 
humility  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem  "Behold,  God  the  Lord  Passed  By" 
(Elijah). 

Elder  Stayner  Richards,  President  of  the  Highland  Stake,  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.  Sunday,  April  3. 

Again  the  great  Tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  were  filled  to 
capacity  with  people  who  had  assembled  to  listen  to  the  Conference  pro- 
ceedings, and  as  was  the  case  in  the  morning,  the  Assembly  Hall  was 
crowded  with  people  and  thousands  of  others  congregated  upon  the  Tab- 
ernacle grounds  where,  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment  that  had  been 
installed,  they  were  able  to  listen  to  the  Conference  services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session.  As  an 
opening  number  the  congregation  joined  with  the  Choir  in  singing  "For 
the  Strength  of  the  Hills  we  Bless  Thee." 

Elder  Harvey  Fletcher,  President  of  the  New  York  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

"Onward  Christian.  Soldiers"  (Sullivan-Nilson)  was  sung  by  the 
Choir. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  following  telegram  has  been  received : 

New  York  City,  New  York. 
Manhattan  Ward  assembled  for  Fast  meeting.    Enjoyed  splendid 
reception  of  Tabernacle  Broadcast  and  Church  of  the  Air. 

Manhattan  Ward  Bishopric. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Text: 

Wherefore,  my  beloved  .  .  .  work  out  your  own  salvation  with  fear 
and  trembling.  For  it  is  God  which  worketh  in  you  both  to  will  and  to 
do  of  his  good  pleasure.  Do  all  things  without  murmurings  and  disputings  : 
That  ye  may  be  blameless  and  harmless,  the  sons  of  God,  without  rebuke, 
in  the  midst  of  a  crooked  and  perverse  nation,  among  whom  ye  shine  as 
lights  in  the  world.  (Philippians  2:12-15.) 

Though  given  over  nineteen  centuries  ago,  Paul's  admonition  to 
the  Philippians  is  applicable  to  us  today. 

A  TRYING  PERIOD  IN  HISTORY 

Present  day  difficulties  and  perplexities  call  for  individual  as  well 
as  cooperative  effort.  To  paraphrase  Lord  Nelson's  famous  statement : 
Now  is  the  time  for  every  man  to  accept  responsibility  and  to  do  his  duty. 

We  are  today  living  through  one  of  the  really  crucial  periods  of  the 
world's  history,  writes  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  State.  Everywhere 
about  us  is  prodigious  change.    Old  institutions,  old  beliefs,  old  ideals  are 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


17 


going  fast.  In  this  revolution  of  thought  and  life,  new  conceptions  and 
beliefs  born  of  Communism,  of  Fascism,  of  state  totalitarianism,  are  com- 
peting relentlessly  with  the  older  conceptions  which  we  thought  were 
fundamental.    The  future  is  literally  in  our  making. 

It  is  a  time  of  disillusionment,  of  loss  of  faith,  of  bitter  pessimism. 
We  seem  to  be  slipping  backward  in  the  long  march  of  progress.  We  are 
in  danger  of  losing  part  of  the  precious  heritage  for  which  our  ancestors 
fought  and  gave  their  lives.  Human  liberty,  democracy,  parliamentary 
government,  freedom  of  speech,  freedom  of  conscience,  tolerance,  faith — 
these  in  important  parts  of  the  world  have  ceased  to  exist.  Autocracy 
and  dictatorship  are  demanding  men's  allegiance.  Political  institutions 
are  cracking  ominously.  Democratic  government  is  fighting  for  its  life. 
Our  whole  capitalistic  system  is  under  fire.  .  .  . 

Even  today  millions  of  men  are  wandering  the  streets  of  our  great 
industrial  cities,  hungry  and  unable,  through  no  fault  of  their  own,  to  find 
work.  We  are  still  forced  to  mortgage  unborn  generations  to  care  for 
present  want.   In  the  midst  of  abundance  the  world  is  multiplying  poverty. 

RESULT  OF  REJECTING  GOSPEL  TEACHINGS 

Undoubtedly  there  are  many  causes  contributing  to  these  untoward 
conditions,  chief  of  which  is  failure  to  adopt  the  teachings  of  Jesus. 

Certainly  much  of  the  hatred  and  animosity  manifest  among  the 
peoples  of  the  world  are  largely  if  not  entirely  due  to  men's  rejecting 
fundamental  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Some  men  and 
some  nations  still  apply  the  law  of  the  jungle — cheat  or  be  cheated, 
conquer  or  be  conquered,  kill  or  be  killed — instead  of  "do  unto  others 
as  you  would  have  others  do  unto  you,"  "love  your  neighbor  as  yourself," 
"do  good  to  them  who  despitefully  use  you." 

Well,  what  can  we  do  about  it?  Sometimes  when  we  think  how 
little  we  can  do,  we  almost  despair  of  attempting  to  do  anything.  But 
there  are  a  few  simple  but  fundamental  things  which  everyone  can  do. 

One  of  these  is  for  each  individual  to  work  out  his  own  salvation. 

WORKING  FOR  SALVATION 

An  outstanding  doctrine  of  the  Church  is  that  each  individual, 
carries  this  responsibility,  and  that  the  salvation  of  man  is  a  process  of 
gradual  development.  The  Church  does  not  accept  the  doctrine  that  a 
mere  murmured  belief  in  Jesus  Christ  is  all  that  is  essential  to  salvation. 
A  man  may  say  he  believes  but  if  he  does  nothing  to  make  that  belief 
or  faith  a  moving  power  to  do,  to  accomplish,  to  produce  soul  growth, 
his  protestation  will  avail  him  nothing.  "Work  out  your  own  salvation" 
is  an  exhortation  to  demonstrate  by  activity,  by  thoughtful  obedient 
effort  the  reality  of  faith.  But  this  must  be  done  with  "fear  and  trem- 
bling;" that  is  with  a  consciousness  that  absolute  dependence  upon  self 
may  produce  pride  and  weakness  that  will  bring  failure.  With  "fear  and 
trembling"  we  should  seek  the  strength  and  grace  of  God  for  inspiration 
to  obtain  the  final  victory. 

However,  to  work  out  one's  salvation  is  not  to  sit  idly  by,dreaming 
and  yearning  for  God  miraculously  to  thrust  bounteous  blessings  into 
our  laps.   It  is  to  perform  daily,  hourly,  momentarily,  if  necessary,  the 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

immediate  task  or  duty  at  hand,  and  to  continue  happily  in  such  per- 
formance as  the  years  come  and  go,  leaving  the  fruits  of  such  labors 
either  to  self  or  to  others  to  be  bestowed  as  a  just  and  beneficent  Father 
may  determine. 

I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  scripture  that  declares  "By  grace  are  ye 
saved  through  faith,  and  that  not  of  yourselves ;  it  is  a  gift  of  God." 
That  is  absolutely  true,  for  man  in  his  taking  upon  himself  mortality 
was  impotent  to  save  himself.  When  left  to  grope  in  a  natural  state, 
he  would  have  become,  and  did  become  "carnal,  sensual  and  devilish 
by  nature."  But  the  Lord  through  His  grace  appeared  to  man,  gave 
him  the  Gospel  or  eternal  plan  whereby  he  might  rise  above  the  carnal  and 
selfish  things  of  life  and  obtain  spiritual  perfection. 

But  he  must  rise  by  his  own  efforts  and  he  must  walk  by  faith. 

He  who  would  ascend  the  stairway  leading  upward  to  eternal  life 
must  tread  it  step  by  step  from  the  base  stone  to  the  summit  of  its 
flight.  Not  a  single  stair  can  be  missed,  not  one  duty  neglected  if  the 
climber  would  avoid  danger  and  delay,  and  arrive  with  all  safety  and 
expedition  at  the  topmost  landing  of  the  celestial  exaltation. 

The  responsibility  is  upon  each  individual  to  choose  the  path  of 
righteousness,  of  faithfulness  and  duty  to  fellowmen.  If  he  choose 
otherwise,  and  as  a  result  meet  failure,  misery  and  death,  he  alone  is  to 
blame.   As  President  Young  said  on  one  occasion : 

If  Brother  Brigham  should  take  a  wrong  track  and  be  shut  out  of 
the  kingdom  of  heaven,  no  person  will  be  to  blame  but  Brother  Brigham. 
I  am  the  only  being  in  heaven,  earth,  or  hell,  that  can  be  blamed. 

This  will  equally  apply  to  every  Latter-day  Saint.  Salvation  is  an 
individual  operation.  I  am  the  only  person  that  can  possibly  save  myself. 
When  salvation  is  sent  to  me,  I  can  reject  or  receive  it.  In  receiving  it, 
I  yield  implicit  obedience  and  submission  to  its  great  Author  throughout 
my  life,  and  to  those  whom  he  shall  appoint  to  instruct  me ;  in  rejecting  it,  I 
follow  the  dictates  of  my  own  will  in  preference  to  the  will  of  my  Creator. 

I  believe  in  individualism  as  opposed  to  paternalism.  In  saying  this 
I  recognize  the  fact  that  a  man's  duties  to  himself  and  to  his  fellowmen 
are  indissolubly  connected.  Jesus  taught  that  if  a  man  is  true  to  his  own 
highest  interests  he  cannot  fail  to  discharge  his  obligations  to  his  neigh- 
bors. Conversely,  he  taught,  that  if  a  man  is  faithful  to  the  interests 
of  his  fellowmen,  he  cannot  be  faithless  to  his  own.  And  as  a  man  thinks 
so  he  acts. 

Within  my  experience  there  has  never  been  a  time  when  the  doctrine 
of  individual  initiative  and  individual  effort  should  be  more  generally 
taught  and  more  earnestly  put  into  effect  than  at  the  present  day. 

Too  many  men  are  claiming  that  the  world  owes  them  a  living,  and 
are  sitting  effortlessly  by  expecting  the  world  to  throw  its  luxuries  into 
their  passive  laps.  Too  late  they  will  learn  that  the  earth  rewards  richly 
only  the  strenuous  stragglers.  Emerson  quotes  someone  as  saying  that 
"the  world  is  in  a  state  of  bankruptcy;  that  the  world  owes  the  world 
more  than  the  world  can  pay,  and  ought  to  go  into  chancery  and  be  sold." 
Such  reputed  insolvency  involves  all  the  population,  and  he  who  does  not 
get  out  and  rustle  for  himself  is  a  contributor  to  the  alleged  bankruptcy. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


19 


NO  NEED  FOR  IDLENESS 

Thousands,  through  no  fault  of  theirs,  are  out  of  jobs,  and  are 
vainly  seeking  a  means  of  an  independent  livelihood.  However,  failure 
to  find  it  is  no  justification  for  idleness.  There  are  fences  to  rebuild, 
barns  to  repair,  yards  to  clean  up,  houses  to  remodel  and  to  paint,  vicious 
and  destructive  weeds  to  destroy  as  they  deface  the  highway  and  ravage 
crops.  Instead  of  waiting  expectantly  for  the  government  to  find  work 
for  us,  let  us  look  around  and  see  if  there  is  not  work  near  at  hand. 
Such  work  will  be  a  benefit  not  only  to  the  individual  but  to  the  com- 
munity and  the  public  generally.  Last  year  there  passed  through  Utah 
1,250,000  tourists.  We  must  not  shut  our  eyes  to  the  fact  that  these 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  visitors  constitute  one  of  the  greatest  assets 
of  the  state.  Travelers  come  to  behold  sublime  canyons  and  far-famed 
scenery,  to  hear  the  story  and  see  the  accomplishments  of  the  Mormon 
pioneers.  If,  when  they  come  here,  anticipation  exceeds  realization, 
these  tourists  will  go  away  disappointed.  If  realization  is  greater  than 
anticipation,  they  will  depart  with  satisfaction  and  words  of  commenda- 
tion. 

Thriving  villages  with  newly  painted  dwellings,  cultivated  farms 
and  weedless  highways,  courtesy  and  fair  dealing  will  bear  an  encouraging 
message  to  these  hundreds  of  thousands  of  visitors ;  while  dilapidated 
houses,  ill-kept  gardens,  broken  gates  and  tumbled  down  fences  will 
indicate  an  indolence  and  shiftlessness  that  will  discredit  the  whole 
people. 

WHAT  ONE  WARD  ACCOMPLISHED 

This  admonition  applies  not  only  to  persons  but  to  the  individual 
quorum,  to  the  individual  ward,  to  the  individual  stake.  Look  around 
you  and  you  will  find  that  there  is  work  for  you  in  your  own  community. 
These  suggestions  are  not  impractical  effusions  of  a  dreamer,  as  Bishop 
Lawrence  B.  Johnson  of  Randolph,  Utah  (Woodruff  Stake)  has  re- 
cently demonstrated.  In  that  little  village,  10  or  12  more  houses  are 
needed  to  meet  the  bare  necessities  of  natural  increase  in  population. 
People  have  not  the  money  with  which  to  pay  for  these  houses.  But 
there  are  certain  resources  which  they  do  possess — health,  brawn  and 
muscle,  and  initiative  and  foresight  on  the  part  of  leaders.  Twelve 
miles  from  this  town  are  groves  of  timber;  trees  that  can  be  hewn  into 
house  logs. 

Bishop  Johnson  presented  his  plan,  and  called  for  volunteers  from 
the  ranks  of  the  unemployed.  He  anticipated  meeting  5  or  6  men  with 
teams  and  axes.  At  the  appointed  hour  one  Monday  morning  20  men 
responded. 

With  a  little  help  a  saw  mill  was  obtained,  and  with  the  cooperation 
of  the  Forest  Department,  200  trees,  the  forest  life  of  which  was  about 
ended,  had  been  transformed  into  excellent  housing  material — 25,000 
scale  feet  of  logs  made  ready  for  use,  and  the  work  still  continues.  For 
their  labor  the  men  were  given  work  receipts,  which  are  accepted  at  the 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

regional  storehouse  in  exchange  for  clothing,  shoes,  groceries  and  other 
necessities. 

Work  brings  happiness,  and  that  happiness  is  doubled  to  him  who 
initiates  the  work. 

OPPORTUNITIES  AT  HAND 

Too  many  of  us  fail  to  take  advantage  of  opportunities  near  at 
hand.  We  justify  inactivity  by  nursing  the  impotent  thought  that  success 
cannot  be  obtained  without  influence,  money,  social  or  political  "pull." 
Edward  Rowland  Sill  gives  an  excellent  illustration  of  the  fact  that 
sometimes  "what  one  man  throws  away  as  useless,  another  man  seizes 
as  the  best  means  of  victory  at  hand." 

This  I  beheld,  or  dreamed  it  in  a  dream : — 

There  spread  a  cloud  of  dust  along  a  plain; 

And  underneath  the  cloud,  or  in  it,  raged 

A  furious  battle,  and  men  yelled,  and  swords 

Shocked  upon  swords  and  shields.   A  prince's  banner 

Wavered,  then  staggered  backward,  hemmed  by  foes. 

A  craven  hung  along  the  battle's  edge, 

And  thought,  "Had  I  a  sword  of  keener  steel — 

That  blue  blade  that  the  king's  son  bears — but  this 

Blunt  thing  !"  he  snapt  and  flung  it  from  his  hand. 

And  lowering  crept  away  and  left  the  field. 

Then  came  the  king's  son,  wounded,  sore  bestead, 

And  weaponless,  and  saw  the  broken  sword, 

Hilt-buried  in  the  dry  and  trodden  sand, 

And  ran  and  snatched  it,  and  with  battle-shout 

Lifted  afresh  he  hewed  his  enemy  down, 

And  saved  a  great  cause  that  heroic  day. 

Writes  Charles  Wagner  in  the  "Simple  Life" : 

Each  person's  base  of  operations  is  the  field  of  his  immediate  duty. 
Neglect  this  field,  and  all  you  undertake  at  a  distance  is  compromised. 
First,  then,  be  of  your  own  country,  your  own  city,  your  own  home,  your 
own  church,  your  own  work-shop ;  then,  if  you  can,  set  out  from  this  to  go 
beyond  it.  That  is  the  plain  and  natural  order,  and  a  man  must  fortify 
himself  with  very  bad  reasons  to  arrive  at  reversing  it. 

NEED  AND  VALUE  OF  COOPERATION 

Now  do  not  misunderstand  me.  In  thus  emphasizing  individual 
effort,  I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  necessity  of  cooperation — 

There  is  a  destiny  which  makes  us  brothers, 

None  lives  to  self  alone ; 
All  that  we  send  into  the  lives  of  others 

Come  back  into  our  own. 

A  single,  struggling  individual  may  be  stalled  with  his  heavy  load 
even  as  he  begins  to  climb  the  hill  before  him.  To  reach  the  top  unaided 
is  an  impossibility.  With  a  little  help  from  fellow-travelers,  quorums, 
or  wards  he  makes  the  grade  and  goes  on  his  way  in  gratitude  and 
rejoicing. 

This,  I  think,  is  in  harmony  with  the  teachings  of  Jesus,  who 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


21 


"sought  to  perfect  society,  not  by  popular  agitation  or  by  re-organi- 
zation, but  by  perfecting  the  individual.  He  recognized  the  fatal  fallacy 
in  the  dream  of  those  who  hoped  to  make  a  perfect  state  out  of  imperfect 
individuals.  The  ideal  social  state,  which  he  described  as  the  kingdom 
of  God,  is  a  commonwealth  in  which  all  men  are  united  and  governed 
by  a  commanding  love  both  for  God  and  for  their  neighbors." 

The  present  day  turmoil  and  bitter  strivings  threaten  to  undermine 
basic  foundations  of  Christian  relationship.  Liberty,  freedom  of  speech, 
self-government,  faith  in  God,  and  particularly  faith  in  the  efficacy  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  are  facing  a  bombardment  from  the  ranks 
of  error  as  the  world  has  seldom  if  ever  witnessed. 

SOMETHING  FOR  EACH  TO  DO 

Too  many  men  quail  under  the  impending  onslaught,  and  cry 
vainly,  "what  can  we  do?" 
This,  I  repeat,  we  can  do : 
First : 

By  self  effort  attempt  to  initiate  work  around  the  home,  and  in 
the  neighborhood,  quorums  and  groups  rendering  necessary  aid  whenever 
possible ;  and  practice  honesty ;  speak  well  of  your  neighbors ;  and  if  you 
cannot  do  this,  say  nothing.  Seek  the  best  in  life,  and  thus  give  to  your 
own  soul  and  to  your  own  environment  a  touch  of  the  beautiful. 

Second : 

By  proclaiming,  and,  what  is  even  more  effective,  by  exemplifying 
in  life  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  the  only  permanent 
panacea  for  the  ills  of  mankind. 

Wherefore,  my  beloved,  .  .  .  work  out  your  own  salvation  with  fear 
and  trembling.  For  it  is  God  which  worketh  in  you  both  to  will  and  to 
do  of  his  good  pleasure.  Do  all  things  without  murmurings  and  disputings  : 
That  ye  may  be  blameless  and  harmless,  the  sons  of  God,  without  rebuke, 
in  the  midst  of  a  crooked  and  perverse  nation,  among  whom  ye  shine 
as  lights  in  the  world 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  wish  to  tell  of  a  new  interpretation  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  The 
occasion  will  permit  only  an  outline  but  I  make  the  attempt  in  the  hope  that 
our  friends  who  listen  and  some  of  our  members  may  come  to  a  clearer 
understanding  of  the  distinctive  features  of  our  message  and  our  work. 
I  use  the  word  "new"  interpretation  rather  than  "true"  for  diplomatic 
reasons.  "New"  postulates  "old"  and  while  most  people  prefer  to  be 
modern  rather  than  old-fashioned,  usually  no  serious  offense  is  given 
by  placing  a  man  in  an  old  school  of  thought.  Whereas,  "true"  assumes 
the  "false"  and  everyone  resents  an  imputation  against  the  verity  of  his 
ideas.  I  make  this  admission  frankly  because  I  have  no  desire  for 
debate.    I  merely  want  to  explain. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Intelligence  man's  chief  investiture 


I  set  forth  as  the  first  aspect  of  this  new  interpretation  the  doctrine 
of  the  dominance  of  intelligence.  I  believe  I  am  correct  in  the  assertion 
that  in  all  Christian  literature  prior  to  the  advent  of  our  Church  there 
were  to  be  found  no  such  concepts  of  the  origin,  function,  and  place  of 
intelligence  in  the  universe  as  come  from  our  modern  scripture.  Here 
are  some  excerpts : 

Intelligence  or  the  light  of  truth  was  not  created  or  made,  neither 
indeed  can  be. 

All  truth  is  independent  in  that  sphere  in  which  God  has  placed  it, 
to  act  for  itself,  as  all  intelligence  also.  Otherwise,  there  is  no  existence. 
(Doctrine  and  Covenants  93:29,  30.) 

The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence — or  in  other  words,  light  and  truth. 

Light  and  truth  forsake  that  evil  one.  (Doctrine  and  Covenants 
93:36,  37.) 

Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will 
rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection. 

And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life 
through  his  diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so  much 
the  advantage  in  the  world  to  come.  (Doctrine  and  Covenants  130:18,  19.) 

Now,  since  intelligence  is  co-eternal  with  God  and  is  the  very  glory 
of  God,  it  follows  logically  that  it  is  the  chief  investiture  of  man. 
Indeed,  it  is  man,  for  it  is  that  part  of  his  constituency  that  persists,  that 
is  eternal.  This  knowing,  conceiving,  illuminating  principle  of  existence 
lies  at  the  base  of  all  our  powers  and  potentialities.  Without  it  there 
would  be  no  virtue  and  no  sin.  It  alone  gives  to  man  his  free  agency, 
the  power  to  choose,  to  will,  and  to  act,  conscious  of  the  effects  of  his 
decisions  and  his  deeds.  It  accounts  for  the  place  of  good  and  evil  in  the 
world  and  justifies  their  existence, — a  philosophical  problem  that  has 
baffled  the  minds  and  the  thinking  of  great  scholars,  of  all  time. 

This  conception  of  intelligence  justifies  the  eternal  quest  for  knowl- 
edge and  it  does  more.  It  explains  the  necessity  of  acquiring  knowledge 
for  it  makes  knowledge  essential  to  progression  and  progression  in  the 
last  analysis  is  salvation.  It  places  a  terrific  penalty  on  ignorance.  It 
lays  down  a  new  and  very  definite  gospel  doctrine  that :  "It  is  impossible 
for  a  man  to  be  saved  in  ignorance."  (Doctrine  and  Covenants  131 :6.) 


The  world  in  general  and  the  modern  world  in  particular  with  its 
science,  scholasticism,  and  technology  has  been  prone  to  scorn  and  slur 
religion  and  the  church  for  an  alleged  backwardness  and  retardation 
in  intellectual  processes  and  in  the  acquisition  of  knowledge.  Whatever 
justification  there  may  have  been  in  times  past  for  such  an  imputation, 
I  present  now  an  interpretation  of  the  Gospel  that  is  a  complete  refuta- 
tion of  these  disparaging  allegations  and  inferences  of  the  secular  world. 
The  Gospel  of  Christ  offers  a  stimulus  and  a  reward  in  the  pursuit 
of  knowledge  and  the  development  of  intelligence  that  transcend  in  their 
appeal  and  promise  anything  that  the  students  and  philosophers  have 
ever  evolved. 


true  knowledge  and  intelligence  rewarded 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


23 


But  the  knowledge  and  intelligence  that  it  rewards  must  be  true. 
"Light  and  truth"  are  the  words  of  the  revelation.  It  places  no  premium 
upon  the  acquisition  of  falsehood  and  error.  It  distinguishes  very  clearly 
between  sophistication  and  true  intelligence.  A  man  once  said  in  dis- 
tinguishing intelligence  from  education  that  intelligence  is  that  which 
enables  one  to  wisely  meet  the  situations  of  life  without  education; 
whereas,  education  is  that  which  helps  one  to  meet  the  situations  of 
life  without  intelligence. 

This  statement  may  leave  the  inference  that  intelligence  is  largely 
inherited.  The  Gospel  teaches  us  that  it  is — that  it  came  as  a  native 
endowment  of  the  race  but  that  the  efficacy  of  the  endowment  has  been 
in  many  instances  largely  mitigated  by  the  perversion  of  the  race.  It 
is  encouraging  and  gratifying,  however,  to  be  assured  that  no  man  has 
ever  quite  lost  this  vital  and  all-important  attribute.  There  is  enough 
intelligence  with  every  man  to  acquire  knowledge  and  truth  if  he  elects 
so  to  do.  It  is  a  significant  fact,  demonstrated  by  most  extensive  research 
and  investigation,  that  there  is  no  people  in  the  earth,  even  the  most 
primitive,  which  has  not  sufficient  intelligence  to  grasp  and  hold  to  a  con- 
ception of  a  God  as  a  Supreme  being. 

INTELLIGENCE  A  DIVINE  ESSENCE 

How  to  exercise  the  intelligence  we  possess  for  the  attainment  and 
utilization  of  knowledge  is  a  vital  matter  in  the  interpretation  and  appli- 
cation of  the  Gospel,  but  it  is  one  that  I  must  pass  over  briefly.  The 
Gospel  places  highest  value  upon  that  intelligence  and  knowledge  which 
contribute  most  to  the  enduring  welfare  of  man.  "Pure  knowledge" 
it  is  called  in  the  revelation,  (Doctrine  and  Covenants  121 :42)  which  de- 
fines the  attributes  and  functions  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  This  pure 
knowledge,  without  which  the  Priesthood  can  not  properly  be  adminis- 
tered, contemplates  an  understanding  of  the  divine  plan  of  redemption 
and  of  the  principles  and  laws  that  pertain  to  the  celestial  kingdom  of  our 
Father.  In  all  the  learning  of  the  world  there  is  nothing  of  higher  import 
for  the  mind  of  man  to  comprehend  than  the  eternal  principles  and  truths 
that  pertain  to  exaltation  in  the  presence  of  God.  And  there  is  no  higher 
order  of  intelligence  than  that  which  enables  man  to  perceive  these 
glorious  truths. 

Since  intelligence  is  a  divine  essence,  it  may  function  adequately 
only  when  recognized  as  divine.  In  that  recognition  faith  is  indispensable. 
Faith  and  knowledge  constitute  testimony  and  bring  that  conviction 
which  is  epitomized  in  the  declaration,  "that  to  know  thee  is  eternal 
life."  So  I  ask,  where  is  the  philosophy  or  school  of  thought  that  esteems 
more  highly  and  ascribes  nobler  attributes  to  the  mind  and  intelligence 
of  man  than  does  this  exalted  concept  set  forth  in  the  new  interpretation 
of  the  Gospel  of  Christ? 

THE  FAMILY  OF  GOD 

I  propose  as  the  next  major  phase  of  this  new  interpretation  a 
unique  and  distinctive  conception  of  the  family  of  God.    God,  the 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

Master  Intelligence  is  the  Creator  and  veritable  Father  of  his  children, 
the  lesser  but  potentially  divine  intelligences  who  make  up  his  family 
and  populate  his  kingdom.  As  a  kindly  parent,  he  desires  and  designs 
the  eternal  welfare  and  happiness  of  his  offspring.  In  modern  revela- 
tion his  purpose  is  clarified  as  never  before  in  recorded  scripture.  It 
is  the  glory  of  God  to  "bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of 
man."  (Pearl  of  Great  Price — Moses  1 :39.)  And,  "Men  are  that  they 
might  have  joy."  (Book  of  Mormon — II  Nephi  2:25.)  These  are  the 
sublime  declarations  revealed  in  latter  days,  forever  banishing  all  doubt 
and  uncertain  speculation  as  to  the  place  and  purpose  of  man  in  the 
universe. 

In  what  does  the  joy  of  man  consist?  There  are  two  things :  first, 
an  eternal  progression  in  intelligence,  knowledge  and  power  that  leads 
to  perfection,  even  as  Christ  is  perfect;  and,  second,  companionship 
with  God  in  his  presence  and  in  the  presence  of  his  Son. 

NEW  CONCEPT  OF  HEAVEN 

This  pronouncement  of  the  purpose  of  our  being,  together  with 
additional  revelations,  brings  a  new  concept  of  heaven.  By  the  per- 
fection of  our  lives  we  achieve  joy  and  come  into  the  presence  of  God. 
Where  is  he?  He  is  in  his  own  kingdom.  Are  there  other  kingdoms? 
Yes.  And  in  that  revealed  knowledge  we  learn  the  truth  about  heaven. 
There  are  other  kingdoms  referred  to  but  not  fully  explained  by  Saint 
Paul  and  also  indicated  in  "the  many  mansions  of  my  Father's  house," 
spoken  of  by  the  Savior. 

These  scriptures  have  been  fully  amplified  by  the  new  interpretation. 
Kingdoms  of  eternity  have  been  defined.  Laws  that  govern  the  various 
kingdoms  have  been  set  forth  and  entrance  requirements  stipulated. 
There  are  preferential  places  and  conditions  in  the  hereafter,  as  there 
are  here.  The  highest  and  most  desirable  is  the  celestial  kingdom 
of  our  Father.  In  that  kingdom  and  only  there  do  intelligences  attain 
their  highest  state  of  perfection.  Only  there  do  we  have  assurance  of 
the  reunion  of  families  and  the  perpetuation  of  family  relationship  and 
eternal  increase.    In  that  kingdom  man  may  ultimately  become  divine. 

In  the  mercy  of  God  other  lesser  kingdoms  make  provision  for 
just  compensation  in  the  lives  of  men.  But  the  lesser  kingdoms  are 
outshone  by  the  celestial  as  the  sun  in  its  brightness  and  glory  transcends 
the  moon  and  the  stars. 

Men  attain  these  various  kingdoms  by  the  election  and  the  work  of 
their  lives.  We  do  not  know  all  the  conditions  precedent  to  entrance 
into  the  lesser  kingdoms  but  what  is  necessary  to  come  into  celestial 
glory  has  been  definitely  revealed.  The  principles  and  ordinances  of 
the  Gospel  of  Christ  are  the  laws  of  that  kingdom.  Faith,  repentance, 
baptism,  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  bestowal  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
ordination  to  the  Priesthood, — are  all  essential  requirements.  Why? 
Because  God  has  stipulated  them  and  because  also  they  are  consonant 
with  the  spirit,  the  purpose  and  glory  of  the  kingdom. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


25 


Is  it  necessary  for  one  to  be  baptized  to  go  to  heaven  ?  That  de- 
pends on  the  place  in  heaven  to  which  one  aspires.  We  have  no  knowl- 
edge as  to  whether  it  may  be  necessary  for  the  lesser  kingdoms,  but 
we  do  know  by  revelation  that  it  is  absolutely  essential  for  the  heaven 
of  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God.  The  scriptures  give  us  to  understand 
that  through  the  general  atonement  of  the  Savior  all  mankind  will  be 
resurrected  from  the  grave  and  come  forth  in  a  life  hereafter  but  we 
know  that  the  atonement  itself  is  not  adequate  to  place  us  in  the  celestial 
kingdom,  in  which  respect  we  distinguish  between  the  general  salvation 
of  the  human  family  brought  about  by  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  and 
the  exaltation  of  the  individual  accomplished  by  his  own  works  and 
faithfulness,  through  the  mediation  of  Christ. 

MISSION  OF  CHURCH  FOR  LIVING  AND  DEAD 

From  this  clearly  defined  sublime  concept  of  heaven  is  devolved 
the  mission  of  the  Church  which  is :  first,  to  disseminate  knowledge  of 
the  celestial  kingdom;  and  second,  to  assist  in  perfecting  the  lives  of 
men  so  they  may  enter  that  kingdom. 

This  mission  of  the  Church,  through  the  revealed  justice  of  God, 
is  extended  not  only  to  all  the  living  but  to  the  dead  as  well.  It  is  not 
designed  that  the  accident  of  death  shall  circumscribe  the  free  agency 
of  man  to  choose  and  attain  his  ultimate  destiny.  Since,  however,  it  is 
in  the  plan  that  certain  ceremonies  and  ordinances  which  are  requisite  for 
entrance  into  the  celestial  kingdom  shall  be  performed  in  mortality, 
merciful  provision  has  been  made  whereby  the  living  may  vicariously 
perform  these  ordinances  for  the  dead.  Hence  our  extensive  temple 
work  wherein  all  conditions  essential  for  entrance  into  the  celestial  king- 
dom are  complied  with  for  both  the  living  and  the  dead. 

I  think  of  all  Christian  service  vicarious  work  for  the  dead  is  the 
most  Christ-like.  It  often  entails  great  sacrifice.  The  beneficiary  is  not 
here,  even  to  give  thanks.   It  is  true  benevolence. 

NATURE  AND  NEED  OF  PRIESTHOOD 

As  a  concluding  item  in  this  new  interpretation  of  the  Gospel,  I  now 
present  the  doctrine  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  Knowledge  of  God,  his 
family  and  his  kingdom,  and  reason  also,  assure  us  that  we  can  not  do 
his  work  and  accomplish  his  purposes  without  a  delegation  of  his  power. 
The  Priesthood  is  his  commission  to  men.  It  holds  the  keys  to  his 
kingdom.    The  gates  will  not  unlock  without  these  keys. 

Not  only  is  the  Priesthood  necessary  for  the  kingdom  hereafter, 
but  it  is  essential  in  perfecting  the  lives  of  the  people.  This  investiture 
of  divine  power  in  man  is  a  boon  to  him  who  holds  it  and  an  inestimable 
blessing  to  others.  I  call  it  the  perfect  plan  of  service  because  it  does 
for  man  the  most  vital  and  important  things  that  can  come  into  his  life. 
It  inducts  him  into  the  fold  of  Christ.  It  unites  him  in  an  eternal 
compact  of  marriage.    It  establishes  the  enduring  bond  in  which  his 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

children  are  born.  It  leads  him  into  celestial  glory,  the  benediction 
of  his  life. 

The  nature  of  this  divine  power  is  set  forth  in  some  of  the  most 
beautiful  language  of  all  scripture.  I  have  not  time  to  repeat  it  all.  Here 
is  but  a  sample : 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of 
the  Priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and 
meekness,  and  by  love  unfeigned; 

By  kindness  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the 
soul  without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — 

Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost;  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him 
whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy; 

That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords 
of  death.  (Doctrine  and  Covenants  121 :41-44.) 

DIVINE  POWER  EXISTS  IN  EARTH  TODAY 

Are  we  sure  that  this  divine  power  exists  in  the  earth  today?  We 
are.  We  have  incontrovertible  evidence  of  its  derivation  and  validity. 
Its  origin  is  not  lost  in  the  obscure  antiquity  of  the  past.  It  came  to 
us  in  relatively  recent  time,- — within  the  memory  of  our  fathers.  Angelic 
ministers,  in  person,  bestowed  it  and  delivered  the  keys.  The  unequiv- 
ocal testimony  of  the  witnesses  is  recorded  and  available.  And  the 
authenticity  and  genuineness  of  the  power  are  attested,  not  only  by 
accredited  witnesses,  but  by  what  is  equally,  if  not  more  important,  the 
virtue  and  efficacy  of  the  power  itself. 

Our  history  is  replete  with  instances  and  circumstances  indicating 
the  vitality  and  force  of  this  precious  endowment.  So  that,  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  honest  men  and  women  have  positive  conviction  of  the 
restoration  of  God's  power  in  the  earth  and  the  establishment  of  his 
Church  founded  on  that  power. 

This,  then,  in  brief,  is  the  new  interpretation  and  the  new  restoration 
of  the  pure  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  call  it  new  although  it  came  a 
century  ago  and  although  hundreds  of  thousands  have  accepted  it,  because 
today,  the  great  preponderance  of  all  the  populations  of  the  earth  have 
never  heard  of  it  and  do  not  know  that  the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy 
have  been  re-revealed  in  the  last  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  time 
for  the  exaltation  and  glory  of  man. 

In  this  new  revelation,  through  God's  chosen  prophet,  lies  the  hope 
of  the  world.  When  true  intelligence  shall  banish  error  and  superstition 
and  the  family  of  God  shall  be  more  than  a  theological  conception; 
when  men  shall  truly  aspire  to  the  highest  heaven,  and  the  duly  con- 
stituted authority  of  God  shall  be  recognized  and  esteemed,  then,- — and 
not  until  then, — will  the  long-desired  peace  of  Christ  descend  upon  the 
nations.   God  grant  the  early  coming  of  that  day !  Amen. 


An  anthem,  "Lost  in  the  Night"  (Christiansen),  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


27 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Personally  I  can  say  that  I  have  enjoyed  very  much  the  spirit  and 
instruction,  and  the  music  of  this  Conference — all  of  which  I  can  endorse 
most  heartily. 

A  FAITHFUL  PEOPLE 

I  have  been  made  to  feel  thankful  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  which  it  is  clear  to  my  mind  is  in 
its  ascendency  in  the  earth  today.  I  have  thought  of  the  faithfulness  of 
this  people,  the  like  of  which  I  doubt  can  be  found  anywhere  else  in 
the  world.  They  have  accepted  the  Gospel  as  one  of  sacrifice,  of  self- 
abnegation,  and  of  service  to  God  and  to  f  ellowmen.  They  are  working 
out  their  own  salvation  in  fear  and  trembling.  They  pray  for  the 
Authorities  of  this  Church,  and  the  Lord  answers  their  prayers.  I  do 
not  know  that  we  need  consider  the  exceptions. 

The  Authorities  of  the  Church  are  praying  for  the  people,  and 
the  Lord  is  blessing  the  members  of  his  Church  and  those  who  are 
rendering  service  in  the  Church,  assisting  the  Lord  in  the  acomplishment 
of  his  work  and  purposes,  looking  to  the  saving  of  the  souls  of  men, 
without  monetary  consideration,  who  are  paying  their  tithes  and  their 
offerings,  and  answering  calls  of  authority  from  the  leaders  of  the 
Church  to  fill  missions  abroad,  to  labor  in  the  Church  at  home.  If 
these  people  are  not  well  paid  here  upon  the  earth  they  have  the  assur- 
ance of  a  reward  hereafter  that  will  amply  justify  all  the  sacrifices 
which  they  may  make  here  in  the  flesh. 

PURPOSE  OF  LIFE 

We  are  not  here  upon  the  earth,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  friends, 
by  chance,  nor  did  we  come  to  earth  for  the  purpose  of  acquiring  the 
wealth  of  this  world  or  the  praise  and  plaudits  of  men,  or  for  our  own 
personal  aggrandizement,  but  we  are  here  according  to  the  plan  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  was  instituted  in  the  councils  of  heaven 
before  the  world  was.  It  involves  the  acceptance  of  certain  principles 
and  the  receiving  of  certain  ordinances,  the  keeping  of  the  commandments 
*of  the  Lord,  the  obeying  of  his  laws,  and  the  rendering  of  service  to 
one  another,  to  our  fellowmen. 

It  is  pure  religion  and  undefiled  to  keep  ourselves  free  from  the  sins 
of  the  world  and  to  visit  the  widows  and  the  fatherless  in  their  affliction. 
To  those  who  feed  the  hungry,  clothe  the  naked  and  minister  unto  the 
needs  of  their  fellowmen  in  unselfishness,  their  hearts  going  out  with 
their  alms,  to  such  will  the  Lord  say  in  the  day  of  reckoning:  "Come  ye 
blessed  of  the  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  prepared  for  you  from  the 
foundation  of  the  world." 

But  to  those  who  have  buttoned  up  their  pockets,  who  have  closed 
their  hearts  against  the  needs  of  their  fellowmen,  living  entirely  selfish 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

lives,  they  may  expect  the  words  of  the  Judge  of  all :  "Depart  from  me, 
ye  cursed." 

We  should  in  very  deed  lose  our  lives  in  the  service  to  our  God  and 
to  our  fellowmen.  The  greatest  service  that  we  can  render,  the  most 
helpful,  to  our  fellowmen  and  to  ourselves  and  to  our  God  is  helping  men 
and  women  to  find  out  the  way  of  life  and  salvation,  to  know  what  sal- 
vation is,  of  what  it  consists,  and  how  it  may  be  attained,  and  to  encourage 
them  by  teaching  them  the  word  and  will  of  the  Lord,  to  accept  of  the 
same,  and  to  walk  in  newness  of  life  in  the  path  which  is  straight  and 
narrow,  and  leads  unto  life  everlasting. 

THE  GOSPEL  THE  LAW  FOR  ALL  MANKIND 

Hence  we  preach  the  Gospel  at  great  expense,  it  is  true,  to  the 
Church,  but  the  souls  of  men  and  women  cannot  be  valued  in  dollars 
and  cents  in  the  cost  of  effort.  The  Gospel  which  we  have  received 
is  the  law  by  which  all  mankind  are  in  the  end  to  be  judged,  and  either 
condemned  or  justified  according  to  merit.  The  scriptures  tell  us  that 
before  the  law  sin  was  in  the  world,  but  sin  is  not  imputed  where  there 
is  no  law,  and  that  where  there  is  no  law  there  is  no  judgment,  and 
where  there  is  no  judgment  there  is  no  condemnation.  That  means 
that  the  law  of  the  Gospel  must  be  taught  unto  all  men ;  they  are  to  have 
opportunity  to  exercise  their  judgment  and  their  agency  in  accepting 
or  rejecting  it,  and  inasmuch  as  many  of  our  Father's  children — many 
millions  of  them — have  lived  upon  this  earth  and  passed  on  without  a 
knowledge  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  its  saving  power,  the  Gospel 
must  be  taught  to  them  in  the  spirit  world. 

That  is  not  a  new  doctrine,  for  Christ  himself,  as  the  scriptures 
teach  us,  while  his  body  lay  in  the  tomb  went  and  preached  to  the  spirits 
in  prison,  and  so  we  believe  that  the  faithful  men  and  women  of  this 
Church,  when  they  go  beyond,  will  be  engaged  in  that  kind  of  work. 
There  is  no  nobler  work  in  which  men  or  women  can  be  employed  than 
that  of  helping  the  unfortunate,  those  who  are  in  spiritual  darkness,  to 
find  the  way  to  life  eternal  and  encouraging  them  to  walk  therein. 

On  the  other  side  this  work  of  preaching  is  going  on  too,  but  there 
are  saving  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  that  all  mankind  must  receive  if  they 
will  be  saved,  and  they  are  administered  here  upon  the  earth  by  those 
having  authority.  Most  of  the  higher  ordinances  are  administered  only^ 
in  the  Temples  of  our  God.  To  find  out  these  our  kindred  ancestors  by 
genealogical  research,  and  to  go  into  the  Temples  of  the  Lord  and  receive 
for  them  vicariously  those  saving  ordinances  is  another  responsibility 
that  rests  upon  us  as  a  people,  than  which  there  is  no  greater,  and  the 
blessings  that  we  receive  will  be  according  to  our  faithfulness  in  the 
discharging  of  this  responsibility. 

This  is  true  religion  and  undefiled  before  the  Lord. 

I  do  not  know  that  comparisons  would  help  any.  I  have  been 
letting  this  thought  run  through  my  mind :  Where  in  all  this  wide  world 
can  we  find  a  people,  a  working  people  in  their  religion,  in  their  church 
organizations,  as  we  have  it  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


29 


Saints?  Where  can  we  find  a  people  who  are  making  the  sacrifices 
that  this  people  are  doing,  who  are  doing  the  good  that  this  people  are 
doing? 

OUR  RELIGION  A  POSITIVE  ONE 

Mormonism,  I  think  we  were  told  by  Bishop  Cannon  this  morning, 
is  a  positive  religion,  and  I  say  that  which  is  in  opposition  to  it  is 
negative.  If  it  were  possible  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  could  be  mistaken 
in  their  attitude  that  this  religion  of  ours  is  a  positive  religion,  that  there 
are  things  that  must  be  done  and  accomplished  in  order  to  attain  salva- 
tion, principles  to  be  accepted  and  ordinances  to  be  received,  service  to 
be  rendered  such  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  rendering,  I  say  if  it  were 
possible  that  we  could  be  mistaken  in  this  thing — for  we  will  all  know 
at  some  future  time  with  regard  to  salvation  and  its  requirements, 
when  every  knee  shall  bow  and  every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  if  not  before — we  would  be  as  well  off  as  those  who  take  the 
negative  attitude  toward  religion.  But  if  it  proves  that  we  are  right — 
as  I  am  sure  it  will — in  our  claims  of  the  things  necessary  in  order  to 
obtain  salvation,  how  much  better  off  we  will  be  than  those  who  have 
been  on  the  negative  side.  So  we  are  on  the  safe  side,  and  I  thank  God 
that  I  have  the  assurance  that  we  are  on  the  safe  side  so  far  as  under- 
standing what  salvation  is  and  how  it  may  be  attained. 

I  think  so  far  as  the  practice  of  these  things  is  concerned  we  are 
setting  a  worthy  example  to  the  world  of  mankind.  I  have  no  fear 
so  far  as  that  is  concerned  that  that  is  the  order  of  things.  If  only  we 
could  fulfil  the  law  in  an  acceptable  way  as  our  Father's  children,  all 
will  be  well  with  us,  there  will  be  no  disappointment,  and  that  is  the  thing 
that  we  are  here  upon  this  earth  to  do,  to  make  preparation  for  the  life 
which  is  to  come,  which  is  eternal,  so  that  when  we  go  beyond  there 
will  be  no  reproach  of  having  done  things  we  ought  not  to  have  done, 
there  will  be  no  disappointment.  We  will  enter  into  the  rest  and  the 
glory  that  are  prepared  for  the  righteous  of  our  Father's  children. 

God  bless  this  people  for  their  faithfulness,  their  devotion  to  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  and  may  he  reward  all  the  members  of  this  Church 
fully  for  every  sacrifice  that  they  make  in  this  life,  and  if  not  in  this 
life,  in  the  life  to  come,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

At  the  suggestion  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  the  Choir  and  con- 
gregation arose  and  sang  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

The  way  you  people  look  around  and  feel  around,  I  am  wondering 
if  you  think  that  I  am  old.  (Laughter.)  I  am  very  glad  that  I  am  not  so 
old  as  I  feel.  I  am  thankful  nearly  every  minute  that  I  am  well.  I  am 
better  informed  about  life  than  death.  I  appreciate  more  than  I  can 
express  President  Grant's  kindness  towards  me  in  permitting  me  to 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

stand  in  this  pulpit  and  declare  humbly  and  prayerfully  before  God  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  God 
is  our  Father.  If  you  take  that  from  me,  you  have  taken  my  whole 
life. 

I  have  been  in  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  over  forty  years, 
drifting  along  in  the  Council  and  receiving  their  instructions ;  and  I  now 
happen  to  be  the  senior  president  of  the  First  Council.  These  young 
brethren — I  call  them  young  because  they  are  not  so  old  as  I  am — have 
been  wonderful,  they  have  been  so  kind,  so  considerate,  and  so  appre- 
ciative that  I  want  to  say  to  you  good  people,  you  Latter-day  Saints,  I 
have  been  rewarded.  Right  along  I  have  received  my  reward  and 
pension  for  every  kind  thing  that  I  have  done. 

I  love  God,  and  I  love  God  because  he  is  a  God  of  love,  because 
he  is  a  God  of  kindness,  a  God  of  forgiveness,  for  he  has  provided  an 
opportunity  that  with  all  our  weaknesses  we  can  repent.  And  if  you 
take  from  me  the  joy,  the  happiness,  the  peace  and  forgiveness,  for 
heaven's  sake,  what  have  I  left  ?  I  would  not  give  you  a  nickle  for  the 
whole  thing.  I  love  this  work.  My  brethren  have  been  wonderfully 
good  to  me,  and  they  have  been  patient.  God  knows  that,  or  they  never 
would  have  endured  it,  because  I  have  said  things  that  I  was  sorry  I 
said,  but  I  could  not  take  them  back.  (Laughter). 

I  have  a  book — I  did  not  write  it,  thank  the  Lord — they  call  it 
/.  Golden  Kimball;  it  has  been  passed  around.  There  are  in  it  some- 
thing over  fifty  talks,  not  long  talks  but  short  ones,  that  I  have  handed 
over  to  the  stenographer,  and  they  have  been  printed.  I  am  saying 
to  you  in  all  candor  that  I  have  read  it,  (it  is  about  the  only  book  I  have 
read  through)  to  find  out  what  is  said  about  me. 

My  brother  Elias,  before  his  death  three  years  ago,  read  that  book 
and  he  said :  "Golden,  there  are  things  in  that  book  that  God  must 
have  given  to  you."  That  is  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  conclusion,  that  the  Lord  in  his  kindness  and  love  has  given 
me  inspiration  at  times.  I  have  been  moved  upon  to  prophesy,  and  my 
prophecies  have  come  true.  I  am  testifying  to  you  that  I  have  adminis- 
tered to  a  great  many  sick  people  ;  within  a  short  time  I  have  administered 
to  three,  four  or  five. 

A  young  married  man  who  is  not  a  Mormon  took  a  fancy  to  me, 
and  I  went  and  administered  to  that  young  fellow.  His  stomach  is 
punctured,  he  has  been  under  the  physicians'  care — three,  four  or  five 
physicians — in  the  Catholic  hospital.  That  young  man  wanted  me  to 
administer  to  him.  I  blessed  him.  He  sent  for  me  again  and  I  blessed 
him  again.    That  young  boy  almost  worships  me;  I  hope  he  lives. 

I  administered  to  a  woman  not  so  long  ago  who  had  a  cancer.  She 
said  she  was  healed.  Well,  I  have  told  all  of  them  it  is  not  I,  it  is  God, 
it  is  God's  faith. 

In  conclusion:  You  good  people  learn  to  love  God.  But  without 
faith  what  can  you  do?  All  of  us  can  have  faith,  and  without  it  we 
cannot  accomplish  a  single  thing. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


31 


I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  all  you  brethren,  all  you  Authorities.  My 
whole  conclusion  is  God  save  the  people,  and  God  knows  they  do  need 
salvation. 

My  father,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  once  was  discouraged  and  he  said: 
"I  do  not  know  whether  any  of  you  will  be  saved.  If  any  of  you  are 
saved  I  will  be  more  surprised  than  anybody  else." 

The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

CAMPAIGN  AGAINST  TOBACCO 

Nearly  a  year  ago  the  First  Presidency  authorized  the  Council  of 
Twelve  to  organize  a  campaign  throughout  the  Church  against  the  use 
of  alcoholic  beverages  and  tobacco.  This  was  to  be  a  project  for  all 
Priesthood  quorums,  both  Melchizedek  and  Aaronic,  which  should  be 
charged  with  the  responsibility  of  keeping  their  own  members  free  from 
using  alcoholic  beverages  and  tobacco  and  of  assisting  all  others  to  do 
likewise.  Further,  the  Presidency  called  upon  the  auxiliary  organizations 
of  the  Church  to  cooperate  with  the  Priesthood  quorums  in  giving  help 
to  the  campaign. 

When  the  revised  Priesthood  plan  went  into  operation  last  January, 
every  quorum  was  advised  to  begin  working  on  the  liquor-tobacco  project. 
From  then  until  now  the  campaign  has  been  in  process  of  developing 
and  continues  so. 

Everyone  recognizes  that  this  is  a  work  that  cannot  be  finished  in 
a  season  or  a  year.  For  it  is  expected  to  reach  every  home  in  every 
ward  of  the  Church  and  secure  a  favorable  response  to  the  objective  of 
the  campaign — win  our  people  away  from  the  use  of  liquor  and  tobacco. 

This  of  course  will  be  a  campaign  of  education,  a  conversion  of  the 
intellect,  a  winning  of  the  heart  and  securing  action  by  the  will.  Of 
necessity  time  will  be  required  to  do  these  things.  Another  reason  why 
the  campaign  must  continue  beyond  the  limits  of  a  single  year  is  that 
boys  and  girls  are  growing  up  and  while  at  the  moment  they  are  innocent 
and  clean,  efforts  must  continually  be  made  to  keep  them  so.  Hence  it 
is  believed  that  the  campaign  should  go  forward  on  all  feasible  fronts 
and  utilize  every  available  means  of  reaching  all  the  members  of  the 
Church,  especially  those  living  within  reach  of  Priesthood  quorums. 

Methods  of  doing  this  work  most  certainly  require  careful  con- 
sideration. The  objective  desired  is  clear  and  easily  understood.  But 
no  two  persons  are  exactly  alike ;  their  circumstances  and  environments 
differ  and  the  ways  of  effectively  reaching  their  hearts  and  wills  must  be 
determined  by  their  individual  condition  and  characteristics.  Hence 
tact,  resourcefulness,  persistence,  wisdom  and  good  will  must  be  factors 
of  any  and  all  successful  methods. 


32 

Sunday,  April  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


EFFORTS  TO  BE  CHARACTERIZED  BY  LOVE 

It  is  highly  important,  of  course,  that  workers  avoid  giving  any 
offense  to  those  with  whom  they  labor.  Love  and  good  will  must  char- 
acterize our  efforts.  Presumably  all  members  of  the  Church  would  like 
to  be  free  from  the  habits  of  liquor  and  tobacco,  free  from  any  desire 
to  use  these  narcotics.  An  eminent  scientist,  internationally  known, 
once  remarked  to  your  speaker  as  they  sat  at  the  banquet  table  that  he 
would  give  $10,000  if  he  could  stop  smoking.  "I  have  tried,"  he  said, 
but  tobacco  has  got  me  and  I  know  it  is  killing  me."  Undoubtedly  there 
are  many  habitual  users  in  the  Church  who  could  quit  only  by  making 
the  most  determined  efforts.  Aside  from  these  there  are  many  dabblers, 
persons  who  partake  more  or  less  for  one  or  more  of  a  great  many 
reasons.  But  be  they  habituates  or  dabblers,  if  they  are  Church  members, 
is  it  not  well  to  assume  that  they  would  rather  be  non-users  than  users  ? 
Must  not  our  campaign  be  based  upon  this  assumption? 

Certainly  many  of  the  addicts  are  fine  people,  good  neighbors,  good 
citizens  and  worthy  of  the  friendship  of  their  fellow  religionists.  But 
they  have  a  weakness  that  some  of  us,  thank  the  Lord,  do  not  have. 
(I  say  this  humbly,  not  boastfully.)  Hence  they  need  help,  not  con- 
demnation. But  help  will  not  be  accepted  by  them  if  it  is  given  offensively. 
And  so  I  repeat,  tact,  good  judgment  and  abundant  love  must  character- 
ize successful  efforts  to  win  our  people  away  from  the  use  of  liquor  and 
tobacco,  and  to  keep  them  away. 

Why  do  I  say  that  presumably  all  Church  members  would  like  to 
be  free  of  liquor  and  tobacco  desires?  Because  they  have  a  feeling  or 
a  faith  of  the  divinity  of  this  work.  Every  grown-up  member  knows 
about  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  a  revelation  from  God.  No  reasonable 
person  wishes  to  go  deliberately  contrary  to  the  "will  of  God."  Certainly 
he  would  prefer  not  to  do  so.  But  the  cravings  and  the  weaknesses 
of  the  flesh  and  the  temptations  of  Satan  are  responsible  for  many  slips 
that  the  individual  in  his  better  moments  is  sorry  for  making.  Herein 
lies  an  opening,  a  justification,  for  helpful  efforts  of  his  brethren  and 
sisters.  These  efforts,  be  it  remembered,  are  motivated  wholly  by  a 
desire  to  render  a  needed  service,  to  give  encouragement  and  strength  to 
him  willing  to  receive  them. 

The  objective  sought  and  the  nature  of  the  problem  indicate  in  a 
general  way  the  method  of  work  that  should  be  employed.  In  the  last 
analysis  the  individual  is  our  concern.  It  is  he  that  we  wish  to  be  free 
from  the  use  of  liquor  and  tobacco.  Hence  we  wish  to  secure  a  favorable 
reaction  from  him.  This  means  that  we  must  reach  him  personally  rather 
than  in  mass.  When  every  individual  is  free  and  clean  the  mass  will 
be  free  and  clean.   Our  method  of  work  must  be  based  upon  this  fact. 

To  win  our  people  away  from  the  use  of  liquor  and  tobacco  is 
certainly  a  praiseworthy  objective,  but  can  it  be  reached  ?  Yes,  in  time. 
But  we  are  not  so  optimistic  as  to  believe  the  goal  can  be  reached  in  a 
few  months  or  a  year.  But  we  are  sure  that  rapid  progress  can  be  made 
by  wise,  persistent,  united  and  Church-wide  efforts.  Our  faith  is  based 
upon  the  worthiness  and  the  righteousness  of  our  cause.    The  good  of 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


33 


human  souls  and  the  happiness  of  human  lives  are  the  stakes  for  which 
we  strive.  God  being  our  helper  we  shall  win  the  fight  of  all  those  who 
have  a  living  faith  in  the  divinity  of  this  great  latter-day  work.  And  so 
far  as  they  are  concerned  and  in  respect  to  these  narcotics  Satan  will  be 
bound. 

COST  OF  BREAKING  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

If  our  people  in  the  stakes  and  wards  of  the  Church  wei  e  now 
entirely  non-users  of  the  things  prescribed  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom — 
tea,  coffee,  liquor  and  tobacco — their  economic  condition  would  be  vastly 
more  favorable  than  it  is,  just  as  President  Grant  from  this  pulpit  has 
many  times  pointed  out.  Were  we  not  astonished  to  see  the  great  size 
of  official  figures  recently  published  of  the  cost  during  1937  to  the  small 
State  of  Utah  of  alcoholic  beverages  and  cigarettes?  Somewhat  more 
than  $11,278,000  was  paid  by  the  relatively  few  people  in  this  State. 
This  was  an  average  of  more  than  $20.00  per  capita  for  every  soul  that 
lives  here.  (We  do  not  know  how  much  of  the  total  was  paid  by  tourists. 
Certainly  entirely  too  much  was  paid  by  our  people.)  Let  it  be  re- 
membered these  figures  do  not  include  amounts  paid  for  cigars  and  other 
forms  of  tobacco  outside  of  commercial  cigarettes,  nor  for  bootleg 
liquors,  which  amounts  are  in  no  wise  inconsiderable. 

If  to  all  of  these  amounts  we  add  those  paid  for  tea  and  coffee  we 
will  get  a  still  clearer  realization  of  the  great  impoverishment  Utah  is 
continually  suffering  by  sending  out  amounts  to  buy  these  worse  than 
needless  things.  For  we  all  know  none  of  these  poisonous  articles  are 
produced  by  us.  They  constitute  a  continuous  drain  upon  our  economic 
resources.  We  complain  of  our  high  taxes,  of  the  great  cost  of  our 
educational  system,  of  the  heavy  burden  of  our  relief  load,  and  of  the 
crushing  weight  of  our  farm  mortgages.  But  do  we  know  that  Utah 
pays  for  tea,  coffee,  liquor  and  tobacco  more  than  half  the  amount 
she  pays  for  all  her  taxes — school,  city,  county  and  state?  That  she 
pays  more  for  these  poisons  than  she  does  for  our  public  schools, 
including  the  colleges  and  the  University,  and  that  they  cost  more 
than  twice  the  amount  of  the  relief  load  ?  And  that  Utah's  farm 
mortgages  could  be  paid  in  about  three  years  by  the  savings  if  all  of 
us  kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom?  Then  are  we  not  ready  to  admit  that 
President  Grant  was  absolutely  right  when  he  declared  that  our  people 
could  be  economically  independent  by  observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom  ? 

HEALTH  AND  WISDOM  PROMISED 

But  even  so,  would  economic  independence  be  our  greatest  gain, 
big  as  this  would  be?  Listen.  Experience  teaches  the  practical  truth 
of  the  declaration  of  Satan  as  recorded  in  Job,  "All  that  a  man  hath  will 
he  give  for  his  life."  Is  not  health  more  to  be  prized  than  money  ?  The 
great  promise  the  Lord  has  given  the  Saints  for  keeping  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  is  stated  in  these  words : 

And  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  3  First  Day 

and  marrow  to  their  bones ;  and  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of 
knowledge,  even  hidden  treasures.  .  .  .  And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a 
promise,  that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of 
Israel,  and  not  slay  them. 

Health,  wisdom,  knowledge,  freedom  from  the  destroyer!  Are 
not  these  of  far  greater  value  than  money?  But  a  beautiful  thing  is 
that  when  these  come  by  reason  of  observing  the  commandments  we 
also  keep  our  money. 

A  LIGHT  UNTO  THE  WORLD 

But  these  values  are  not  all.  Still  other  wonderful  blessings  would 
follow  observance.  What  could  they  be,  do  you  ask?  The  answer  is 
simple.  In  fact  and  very  deed  Zion  would  be  as  a  light  set  upon  a 
hill;  and  all  the  world  would  see  its  glorious  gleam.  Has  the  Church 
Security  program  set  the  Church  upon  a  hill  ?  Yes,  but  the  light  of  this 
program  has  not  shone  and  cannot  shine  with  the  effulgent  brilliance  that 
would  flow  from  Zion  if  all  her  people  were  strict  observers  of  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  God  would  then  fulfill  his  wonderful  promises  and  the 
results  would  make  the  people  stand  out  so  prominently  and  so  favorably 
that  the  sinful  world  would  be  forced  to  respect  and  admire  them.  By 
this  means  the  Church  would  preach  its  doctrines  with  a  speed  and  a 
success  not  yet  dreamed  of  in  its  history.  And  who  is  there  that  can 
doubt  it? 

Even  bad  and  corrupt  people  admire  virtue,  honor,  integrity  and 
all  the  other  qualities  that  lift  men  up  on  high  planes  of  moral  excellence. 
Suppose  that  all  the  world  could  see  that  here  are  a  people  that  sincerely 
practice  all  the  God-like  virtues  they  preach.  What  would  the  wondrous 
result  be  ?   Certainly  the  redemption  of  Zion  would  not  long  be  delayed. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  have  we  yet  really  come  to  know  that  there 
is  everything  to  gain  by  keeping  God's  commandments?  Why  do  we 
not  keep  them?  Do  not  correct  observation,  reason  and  experience  all 
teach  us  the  value  of  keeping  them?  Why  certainly,  answers  every 
member  of  the  Church  qualified  to  speak. 

EFFORT  REQUIRED  TO  OVERCOME 

But  in  this  connection  let  us  remember  that  it  takes  a  continual, 
determined  effort  to  live  the  Gospel.  Wherever  the  Saints  are  Satan 
is  likely  to  be  also.  It  is  his  purpose  to  handicap  and,  if  possible,  over- 
come the  Saints.  He  and  his  helpers  are  not  asleep  on  their  jobs. 
They  do  not  get  weary  as  many  of  us  appear  to  do.  And  so  we  are 
tempted  all  the  time  and,  obviously,  tempted  in  our  most  vulnerable 
spots,  in  our  weakest  places.  We  all  know  this.  Further,  we  have  short 
memories,  sometimes  very  short,  and  frequently  slip  before  we  are  aware 
that  we  are  in  danger  of  slipping.  These  are  facts.  I  recall  them  to  our 
memories  not  by  way  of  excusing  us  for  our  slips  and  failures,  but  to 
remind  us  of  the  need  of  being  ever  on  our  guard. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


35 


To  live  the  Gospel  requires  positive  action.  Restful  repose  is  a 
temptation  of  the  Evil  One.  There  is  no  excellence  without  labor,  no 
reward  without  achievement,  no  blessing  without  fulfilling  the  conditions 
upon  which  the  blessing  is  predicated.  Granted,  you  say.  Yes,  and  my 
urge  is  that  we  remember  these  sayings  and  continually  apply  them  in 
our  efforts  to  live  the  Gospel. 

And  may  I  remind  ourselves  that  it  is  not  easy  fully  to  observe 
the  Word  of  Wisdom?  Our  lack  of  courage  to  stand  against  social 
customs,  our  vitiated  and  pampered  appetities,  our  ignorance  of  all  that 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  teaches  and  our  lack  of  faith  in  the  true  word 
of  the  living  God  are  one  or  more  of  the  reasons  why  but  few,  if  any, 
of  us  fully  observe  this  divinely-given  law  of  health. 

BOOK  BY  BROTHER  AND  SISTER  WIDTSOE 

May  I  say  this  document  contains  "thou  shalt"  as  well  as  "thou 
shalt  not."  Have  many  of  us  overlooked  this  important  fact?  To 
bring  these  things  vividly  to  our  attention  was  one  reason  why  Brother 
and  Sister  Widtsoe  wrote  the  valuable  little  book  entitled,  "The  Word 
of  Wisdom — A  Modern  Interpretation."  To  become  acquainted  with 
the  "shalts"  I  urge  a  careful  study  of  the  second  half  of  this  book. 
There  is  now  a  general  recognition  of  the  fact  by  the  experts  on  the 
subject  that  food  is  the  chief  factor  in  the  maintenance  of  health.  But 
the  Lord  has  known  this  all  the  time.  So  early  in  the  history  of  the 
Church  he  gave  us  his  great  law  of  health — the  Word  of  Wisdom.  In 
recent  years  scientific  methods  in  the  hands  of  able  experts  have  con- 
firmed in  great  detail  the  truth  of  the  teachings  of  this  divine  law. 

Since  it  is  our  unquestioned  duty  to  maintain  our  health,  using  the 
means  the  Lord  has  placed  in  our  hands  to  this  end,  we  should  be  greatly 
interested  and  profited  by  making  careful  study  of  the  positive  aspects 
of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  as  they  are  set  forth  in  this  new  book  by 
Brother  and  Sister  Widtsoe.  The  negative  aspects  have  very  properly 
heretofore  claimed  most  of  our  attention.  Let  us  now  study  the  positive 
also.  If  we  practice  the  teachings  of  this  book — the  shalls  as  well  as 
the  shall  nots — the  general  health  of  our  people  will  be  greatly  improved 
and,  as  indicated  above,  the  fame  of  our  people  will  become  world-wide. 
The  values  involved  are  therefore  so  great  that,  as  reasonable,  responsible 
beings,  is  not  our  duty  as  clear  as  transparent  crystal?  When  we  fail, 
due  to  unavoidable  ignorance,  we  may  in  a  sense  be  in  the  position  of 
those  who  have  no  law  and  therefore  may  not  be  judged  by  the  law. 
But  in  this  day  and  time  no  normal  adult  person  need  be  without  at 
least  a  fair  knowledge  of  the  fundamental  facts  of  nutrition  and  of 
what  to  eat  and  what  not  to  eat.  These  facts  are  clearly  set  forth  in  the 
little  book  of  which  I  have  spoken.  These  facts  are  also  briefly  indicated 
in  the  positive  aspects  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  but  they  largely  escaped 
our  attention,  at  least  we  did  not  seem  to  appreciate  their  values  until 
modern  science  emphasized  them  to  us. 

And  as  matters  now  stand  Latter-day  Saints  see  clearly  that  Joseph 
Smith  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom  gave  many  facts  to  the  world  that  even 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 


men  of  science  at  the  time  knew  but  little  or  nothing  about.  How  could 
he  do  this?  Because  the  Lord  revealed  these  things  to  him.  He  was 
in  very  deed  a  prophet  of  the  living  God. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  sincerely  turn  unto  the  Lord  and  strive 
continually  to  live  in  harmony  with  his  will  in  so  far  as  we  can  learn 
what  it  is.  In  no  other  way  can  we  fulfill  the  conditions  necessary  to 
insure  his  blessings  upon  this  people  and  upon  this  land.  The  Lord 
himself  has  thus  plainly  spoken  to  us. 

Let  us  seek  him  for  a  desire  and  for  strength  to  keep  our  ears  open 
to  hear  and  our  hearts  ready  to  respond  to  his  teachings.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Elders  George  Albert  Smith  and  Rufus  K.  Hardy  have  sent  us  a 
number  of  fine  telegrams  since  they  left.  They  are  both  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  splendid  health  and  are  being  received  with  enthusiasm  by  the 
good  people  of  the  Pacific  islands.  They  send  their  love  and  very  best 
wishes  not  only  to  us  but  to  all  the  people. 

Elder  Richard  R.  Lyman  is  thoroughly  enjoying  his  mission.  He 
is  doing  a  great  work  in  Europe  and  sends  his  best  wishes  also. 

The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Worthy  Is  the  Lamb." 
Elder  Vernal  C.  Webb,  President  of  the  West  Jordan  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  third  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Monday  morning, 
April  4,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  musical  numbers  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  were  furn- 
ished by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  under  the  direction  of  Char- 
lotte O.  Sackett 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice." 
Elder  Joseph  Williams,  President  of  the  Blackfoot  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

"The  Lord's  Prayer,"  (Forsyth-Dews) ,  was  sung  by  the  Singing 
Mothers. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  appreciate  very  deeply  indeed  our  Singing  Mothers  coming 
here  this  morning  and  furnishing  us  the  music.  The  singing  of  oui 
good  sisters  is  under  the  direction  of  Sister  Charlotte  O.  Sackett. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


37 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  feel  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege  I  have  of 
attending  this  wonderful  Conference  of  his  Church.  As  I  sat  upon  my 
seat  during  the  sessions  of  the  Conference  of  the  Church  yesterday  I 
thought  to  myself :  Is  there  another  place  in  all  the  world  where  a 
congregation  such  as  this  gathers,  with  one  thought  in  mind,  with  a 
devout  faith  in  God  our  Eternal  Father,  and  with  all  of  the  Priesthood, 
and  with  all  of  the  joy  that  comes  to  him  or  her  who  serves  the  Lord, 
knowing  that  he  has  established  his  Church  in  this  dispensation,  and 
that  we  are  members  of  that  Church. 

USE  OF  CIGARET  CONDEMNED 

We  all  have  our  faults,  some  more  than  others.  I  sometimes  think 
that  among  the  growing  faults,  of  a  few  at  least,  of  the  members  of  our 
Church,  is  the  use  of  tobacco.  In  a  speech  I  delivered  in  the  United 
States  Senate  on  June  10,  1929,  I  called  attention  to  the  baneful  effects 
of  the  use  of  tobacco,  and  particularly  on  the  youth  and  womanhood  of 
our  nation.  The  reason  I  decided  to  deliver  that  speech  was  what  I 
had  witnessed,  as  to  the  use  of  tobacco  by  women,  not  only  in  Washing- 
ton, but  wherever  I  went. 

At  that  time  it  was  not  so  universal,  I  was  going  to  say,  but  perhaps 
I  had  better  modify  that  and  say  that  the  practice  had  not  reached  the 
length  that  it  has  today.  In  that  speech  I  condemned  the  insidious 
cigaret  advertising  campaign  that  so  often  appears  in  the  press  of  our 
nation,  promoted  by  tobacco  manufacturers  and  their  interests,  whose 
only  god  is  profit,  whose  only  thought  is  the  balance  sheet,  and  whose 
only  principle  is  greed.  And  above  all,  I  denounced  the  unconscionable, 
heartless,  and  destructive  attempts  to  exploit  the  women  and  youth  of 
our  country. 

I  saw  a  statement  in  a  New  York  paper  the  other  day,  in  which 
statistics  were  given  regarding  the  use  of  tobacco  and  the  amount  that 
was  consumed  in  the  United  States,  and  also  the  purposes  for  which  it 
was  used.  I  was  dumbfounded  when  I  noticed  in  that  report  that  the 
women  of  this  country  are  consuming  or  smoking  a  large  part  of  all 
the  cigarets  that  are  manufactured  and  sold  in  our  nation. 

I  am  going  to  try  to  learn  if  I  can  if  that  practice  reaches  beyond 
the  shores  of  our  own  dear  country.  I  wonder  if  the  women  of  the  world — 
I  mean  of  the  great  countries  of  the  world,  the  civilized  countries — are 
using  that  dirty,  nasty  weed  as  much  as  are  the  women  of  our  own  dear 
United  States. 

Years  ago  in  the  larger  cities  of  our  nation  saloons  nourished  on 
the  principal  corners,  but  at  that  time  no  tobacco  manufacturer  had  the 
temerity  to  cry  to  our  women :  "Smoke  cigarets,  they  are  good  for  you." 
The  human  appetite  is  a  delicate  mechanism,  and  the  attempt  to  urge 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

that  it  be  destroyed  by  the  regular  use  of  tobacco  is  essentially  wicked. 
The  number  of  cigarets  manufactured  in  the  United  States  in  the  year 
1913  was  13,000,247,891,  and  for  the  year  1928,  102  billion.  During 
those  thirteen  years  the  use  of  cigarets  in  our  own  dear  America  had 
increased  nearly  900%.  The  cost  of  our  public  schools,  elementary, 
secondary,  and  collegiate,  in  the  year  1926  was  $2,255,251,557.  The 
amount  expended  during  that  same  year  for  tobacco  was  $2,087,000,000, 
or  nearly  as  much  as  the  United  States  spent  for  educational  pur- 
poses on  her  children  and  men  and  women,  in  the  primary  schools, 
in  the  high  schools,  in  the  colleges,  and  wherever  education  was  given. 
Is  not  this  a  sad  picture  ?  And  it  seems  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  when  it  is  called  to  the  attention  of  the  people,  particularly  our 
people,  there  should  be  a  reformation.  And  if  what  I  say  here  today 
brings  about  a  reformation,  small  or  large,  I  will  thank  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  it. 

SCRIPTURAL  PASSAGES 

I  had  prepared  at  my  office  some  of  the  wonderful  statements  found 
in  the  Bible  and  other  publications  of  a  religious  nature,  and  I  took 
particular  pains  to  copy  some  that  appealed  to  me  personally,  and  I  think 
they  ought  to  appeal  to  every  honest  man  and  woman  in  the  world : 

Deliver  my  soul,  O  Lord,  from  lying  lips,  and  from  a  deceitful 
tongue.  (Psalms  120:2.) 

He  that  keepeth  his  mouth  keepeth  his  life :  but  he  that  openeth  wide 
his  lips  shall  have  destruction.  (Proverbs  13:3.) 

Death  and  life  are  in  the  power  of  the  tongue :  and  they  that  love  it 
shall  eat  the  fruit  thereof.  (Proverbs  18:21.) 

The  words  of  a  talebearer  are  as  wounds,  and  they  go  down  into  the 
innermost  parts  of  the  belly.  (Proverbs  18:8.) 

Who  steals  my  purse  steals  trash,  *  *  *  but  he  who  filches  from  me 
my  good  name  robs  me  of  that  which  not  enriches  him,  and  makes  me 
poor  indeed.  (Shakespeare.) 

There  are  so  many  of  them.  I  love  to  study  them.  I  love  to  take 
the  Bible  and  turn  to  the  two  pages  that  I  have  here  of  similar  quotations, 
all  beautiful  in  expression  and  Godlike  in  purpose. 

SAFETY  IN  LIVING  THE  GOSPEL 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  thought  yesterday  as  I  sat  upon  this 
platform  looking  over  that  mass  of  men  and  women  who  believe  in  the 
revelations  that  God  gave  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  who  believe  in  all  of 
our  Articles  of  Faith  (and  there  is  no  reason  for  mentioning  them 
because  you  are  all  acquainted  with  them),  I  thought  that  if  we  live 
by  these  things  and  by  the  examples  of  the  Authorities  of  the  Church 
since  its  establishment  by  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  we  shall  not  go 
very  far  wrong  in  this  life. 

May  God  give  us  strength  to  live  our  religion,  not  only  talk  about 
it,  but  live  it,  and  live  it  every  day.   If  we  do  we  shall  never  have  any 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


39 


regrets.  And  another  thing,  we  shall  win  the  respect  of  people  not  of  our 
faith  when  they  see  we  live  what  we  preach. 

May  God  be  with  us  with  his  Holy  Spirit  and  bless  our  families 
and  our  loved  ones ;  may  his  Church  grow  and  increase  in  numbers  and 
in  power,  just  as  fast  as  our  Heavenly  Father  sees  that  the  people  are 
qualified  to  carry  on  to  greater  heights. 

God  bless  us  all,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  been  on  the  anxious  seat  since  Sunday  morning,  and  now  that 
I  am  standing  on  my  feet  I  do  not  seem  to  get  very  much  relief.  I  think 
we  have  had  a  marvelous  Conference — one  of  the  best  in  all  that  have 
gone  before.  The  attendance  has  been  very  great.  We  could  have  used 
two  Tabernacles  the  size  of  this  to  accommodate  the  people,  but  of  course 
we  have  to  do  the  best  we  can  under  the  circumstances. 

My  thoughts  during  the  last  day  or  two  have  been  running  along 
the  line  of  President  Grant's  opening  remarks,  Brother  Merrill's  talk 
yesterday  and  the  address  given  by  Brother  Smoot  today. 

daniel's  prediction 

In  the  early  rise  of  the  Church  divine  authority  was  given  to  Joseph 
Smith,  a  young  man,  through  the  ministration  of  angels,  by  which  he  was 
authorized  to  organize  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  this  was  done  in  conformity,  apparently,  with  the  great  prediction 
made  by  Daniel  the  prophet  centuries  ago,  that  in  the  latter  days  the 
God  of  heaven  would  set  up  a  kingdom  which  would  never  be  thrown 
down  or  given  to  other  people,  but  should  stand  forever. 

It  seems  to  me  that  that  was  a  very  remarkable  prediction.  That 
kingdom  did  not  have  its  commencement  upon  the  earth,  it  came  down 
from  above,  from  the  God  of  heaven. 

LAWS  OF  FINANCE  AND  HEALTH 

Early  in  our  experience  the  Lord  gave  two  very  important  laws 
to  his  Church.  One  might  be  designated,  properly,  as  the  law  of  finance, 
and  the  other  the  law  of  health.  And  following  this  many  precious  and 
great  revelations  were  given  to  the  Church  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  for  its  consolation  and  instruction,  but  I  am  prompted  right  now 
to  go  back  and  dwell  for  a  few  moments  on  those  two  great  laws. 

One  law — the  law  of  finance — is  known  to  the  Church  as  the  law 
of  tithing,  but  it  means  the  same  thing.  No  church  can  prosper,  or 
survive,  without  some  such  law  as  we  have. 

The  other  law,  designated  as  the  law  of  health,  is  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  and  this  law  applies  particularly  to  the  individual  members 
of  the  Church.  One  law  upholds  the  Church  and  the  other  law  is  given 
for  the  temporal  salvation  of  the  individual  members  thereof. 

When  the  Eighteenth  Amendment  was  repealed,  the  States  of  the 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

Union  spent  very  freely  of  their  revenue  for  hard  liquors  and  for  beer, 
and,  as  we  heard  from  Brother  Smoot  here  today,  vast  quantities  of 
tobacco  were  consumed  at  an  enormous  expense,  and,  sad  to  relate,  our 
own  beloved  State  of  Utah  was  no  exception  to  the  rule. 

COST  OF  LIQUOR  CONSUMED 

It  appears,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that,  as  an  example,  in  the  year 
1937  hard  liquor  was  consumed  in  the  State  of  Utah  to  the  amount  of 
$4,047,000  in  round  numbers,  and  for  beer,  $4,535,000  in  round  numbers, 
and  for  cigarets,  $2,687,000 — giving  a  total  of  $11,235,000  invested 
in  these  articles  that  I  have  mentioned,  which  articles,  if  used  extensively, 
sap  the  very  life  and  spirit  of  the  children  of  men  and  work  untold 
suffering  and  injury.  These  figures  have  been  given  to  the  people  in  the 
public  press  and  were  taken  from  the  records  of  the  State.  The  total, 
that  I  have  given  you  does  not  include  cigars  and  other  forms  of  tobacco 
or  bootleg  liquor.  I  am  sure  it  would  be  interesting  to  you  to  know 
what  the  actual  purchasing  power  of  $11,235,000  is.  I  can  give  you 
an  example  that  will  bring  the  matter  pretty  clearly  before  you. 

With  $11,235,000,  five  temples,  each  costing  $1,200,000,  or  a  total 
of  $6,000,000,  could  be  constructed;  forty  meeting  houses  at  $50,000 
each,  making  $2,000,000;  one  thousand  homes  of  $3,000  each,  making 
$3,000,000,  and  470,867  paid  names  in  temple  work,  which  is  $235,000, 
making  a  total,  as  I  have  said,  of  $11,235,000. 

It  would  also  give  employment  to  at  least  9,750  men  on  the  con- 
struction of  these  buildings  alone,  not  counting  those  employed  in  steel 
mills,  in  mines,  lumber  industries  and  factories.  A  half -acre  lot  included 
with  each  of  the  above  mentioned  homes  would  insure  the  owner  against 
hunger  and  want.  To  work  in  the  temples  and  receive  the  remuneration 
of  fifty  cents  per  name  would  give  our  aged  brethren  and  sisters  a 
feeling  of  independence  and  self  respect  in  addition  to  the  joy  and  satis- 
faction they  would  experience  in  performing  a  work  of  that  nature. 

The  above  sum  of  $11,235,000,  if  placed  at  5%  interest,  would 
yield  $56,162  per  annum — enough  to  provide  employment  for  twenty-six 
men  at  a  wage  of  $6.00  a  day,  three  hundred  sixty-five  days  per  year. 
This  is  simply  a  sample  of  what  might  be  accomplished  with  the  large 
sum  of  money  that  goes  for  the  purchase  of  these  forbidden  things  so 
far  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  concerned. 

FOREWARNED  BY  THE  LORD 

The  Lord  perceived  from  the  beginning  that  there  was  danger  in 
the  articles  that  are  listed  here,  and  so  he  gave  a  charge  to  his  people ;  he 
warned  them  and  forewarned  them  of  the  danger.  He  knew  what  the 
danger  was,  but  he  did  not  point  it  out.  It  appeared  to  him  sufficient 
that  he  should  tell  his  people  that  strong  drink  is  not  good  for  the  body, 
that  it  is  not  good  to  be  used  internally  nor  externally.  It  might*  be 
used  in  some  cases  for  the  washing  of  the  body,  but  should  not  be 
used  internally ;  and  the  Lord,  pointing  to  tobacco,  said  it  was  not  good 
for  the  use  of  man  in  any  way,  but  could  be  used  for  sick  cattle  and 
otherwise  if  great  care  were  taken. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


41 


How  merciful  and  gracious  is  our  Heavenly  Father  to  give  this 
word  of  caution  and  advice  and  counsel  to  his  people  at  a  time  when 
the  real  danger  in  these  articles  was  not  widely  known.  But  science  has 
confirmed  the  Word  of  Wisdom  to  this  people.  We  know  now  where 
the  danger  is.  We  know  that  in  tobacco  there  is  a  deadly  poison.  The 
Lord  did  not  mention  that,  but  learned  men  of  our  day,  great  practitioners, 
make  this  statement,  that  nicotine  in  tobacco  is  a  dangerous  poison,  and 
that  a  very  little  of  it  in  concentrated  form  would  actually  destroy  the 
life  of  a  man  or  a  woman. 

The  Lord  not  only  points  out  the  evils  connected  with  our  living,  but 
also  points  out  things  that  would  be  good  for  us,  and  altogether  this 
short  revelation  covers  a  wide  range.  It  is  truly  a  law  of  health  and 
those  who  observe  to  keep  this  Word  of  Wisdom  will  realize  a  blessing 
from  it. 

The  law  is  not  only  of  a  temporal  character  but  is  also  spiritual  in 
its  operation. 

BENEFITS  FROM  OBSERVING  LAW  OF  TITHING 

And  now  in  respect  to  the  law  of  tithing  let  me  say  it  is  about  the 
shortest  revelation  in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants — just  a  few 
words  only.  But  in  those  few  words  is  expressed  the  mind  and  will  of 
the  Lord  concerning  the  matter  of  finance  as  affecting  his  Church.  I  am 
safe  in  saying,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  as 
a  Church  and  as  a  people  would  observe  this  law  strictly  and  pay  an  honest 
tithing,  there  would  be  sufficient  means  in  the  hands  of  the  Trustee-in- 
trust of  the  Church  for  every  purpose  and  would  cover  all  our  expenses. 
The  only  danger,  I  think,  would  then  be  that  this  people  would  rapidly 
become  wealthy  in  the  things  of  the  earth,  and  in  that  case  we  would 
do  well  to  remember  the  solemn  warning  given  the  Nephites  when  they 
had  all  things  in  common.  They  increased  in  riches  and  in  the  fine  things 
of  the  earth  until  it  affected  their  lives  and  they  became  proud  and  high 
minded  and  separated  themselves  one  from  another  into  classes,  and 
finally  were  destroyed  by  the  spirit  of  rebellion  and  wickedness. 

Let  me  call  your  attention  to  this  fact  in  closing,  brethren  and  sisters  : 
When  we  pay  to  the  Lord  his  part  of  our  revenue,  which  is  10%,  he 
does  not  take  it  up  into  heaven.  The  tithing  is  turned  over  to  his  servants 
on  earth  and  goes  into  the  treasury  or  storehouse  of  the  Lord  and  later  it 
is  dispensed  again  and  comes  back  to  the  people  of  his  Church.  Thus  we 
get  it  all  anyhow  and  the  Church  has  the  benefit  of  the  full  amount,  but 
10%  the  Lord  claims  and  that  should  go  into  his  storehouse.  This  is 
certainly  an  interesting  phase  of  the  payment  of  tithes. 

I  wish  to  bear  my  testimony.  I  know  without  equivocation  or  mental 
reservation  that  this  is  the  true  Church  of  the  Redeemer,  the  Church  of 
Christ,  the  Firstborn,  and  that  membership  in  this  Church  is  very 
precious.  We  who  have  it  must  guard  it  very  carefully,  make  every 
needful  sacrifice  and  pay  to  the  Lord  what  belongs  to  him,  and  in  return 
his  blessing  will  be  given  to  us.  God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

An  anthem  "The  Twenty-third  Psalm",  (Frank  Schubert)  was  sung 
by  the  Singing  Mothers. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  make 
some  contribution  to  this  wonderful  Conference,  which  I  have  enjoyed 
greatly. 

THE  VISION  NECESSARY 

It  is  written  of  old  that  where  there  is  no  vision,  the  people  will 
perish.  Our  fathers  had  a  vision  of  this  work,  that  inspired  them  to 
leave  their  native  homes,  in  the  main  in  the  old  world  countries.  They 
crossed  the  plains  with  a  distinct  vision  of  an  objective  to  obtain.  We  must 
not  lose  that  vision  or  we  shall  perish.  Whoever  does  lose  that  vision 
will  naturally  step  aside  and  desert  the  great  procession.  The  people 
will  never  lose  the  vision.  Some  may,  but  the  majority  will  keep  their 
eye  upon  the  goal. 

AMERICA  A  CHOICE  LAND 

I  remember,  years  ago,  being  greatly  impressed  as  I  read  a  book 
written  by  an  eminent  authority,  a  Jew,  Israel  Zangwell,  in  which  he 
called  America  the  "melting  pot  of  the  nations."  He  saw  coming  to 
this  land  peoples  of  all  other  countries,  and  under  our  Constitution  and 
our  glorious  privileges  in  America  the  mixing  of  the  blood  of  the  nations, 
providing  a  new  race  of  people  in  the  earth,  the  American,  rich  in 
physical  strength,  in  beauty,  in  intelligence  and  leadership. 

I  am  sure  he  was  right  in  offering  his  thought  that  America  would 
provide  a  new  race,  produced  under  the  most  favorable  circumstances 
that  people  have  ever  known  in  the  earth,  which  are  the  conditions  that 
obtain  in  America,  the  choice  land — the  old  Book  of  Mormon  prophets 
called  it — choice  above  all  other  lands. 

When  I  think  that  today  one-sixteenth  of  the  world's  population  lives 
in  these  United  States,  and  we  have  only  one-seventeenth  of  the  world's 
land,  yet  are  producing  almost  one-half  of  the  world's  wealth,  and  there 
are  no  peoples  in  any  other  land,  whether  they  be  farmers,  common 
laborers,  or  mechanics  or  artisans,  whose  average  income  is  as  high 
as  the  average  income  of  the  families  of  the  United  States,  I  repeat, 
it  is  a  choice  land. 

THE  BLOOD  OF  ISRAEL 

But  I  am  thinking  of  a  superfine  melting  pot,  if  you  please,  that 
is  going  forward  in  America,  wherein  a  very  choice  stock  has  been 
introduced,  the  blood  of  Israel,  the  children  of  the  promise.  You  re- 
member the  old  prophets  foreshadowed  the  scattering  of  Israel,  how 
they  should  be  sifted  among  the  nations,  and  yet  should  be  gathered 
again. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


43 


I  read  an  article  also  some  time  ago  in  which  the  author,  discussing 
the  question — Are  the  Jews  the  chosen  people  of  God? — granted  that 
they  had  the  right  to  expect  the  realization  of  all  the  promises  offered 
to  their  father,  Judah ;  but,  said  he,  "when  they  aspire  to  the  realization 
of  the  great  promises  bestowed  upon  Judah's  brother,  Joseph,  they 
aspire  to  that  which  does  not  belong  to  them."  And  then  he  concluded : 
"If  only  somewhere  in  the  world  today  we  could  find  the  descendants 
of  this  Joseph,  we  would  indeed  find  the  chosen  people  of  God." 

Have  they  been  found?  Yes.  It  has  been  the  declaration  of  this 
people,  for  more  than  a  hundred  years,  that  the  mission  of  this  Church 
was  to  find  the  blood  of  Joseph,  through  Ephraim,  sifted  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  and  for  more  than  a  hundred  years  we  have  been 
finding  them,  one  of  a  city,  two  of  a  family,  one  here  and  one  there,  even 
as  the  prophets  said  they  would  be  found,  at  the  cry :  "Come  out  of  her," 
(out  of  Babylon)  "O  ye,  my  people,  that  ye  be  not  partakers  of  her 
plagues."  We  have  been  gathering  them  up  from  the  nations  of  the 
earth. 

I  read  with  interest  the  investigations  of  the  British  Israel  move- 
ment, which  seeks  to  establish  the  fact  that  the  founders  of  the  British 
Empire  were  these  descendants  of  Joseph.  They  give  some  very  good 
evidences,  and  it  is  not  difficult  for  me  to  believe  that  this  branch  of  Israel 
did  play  a  conspicuous  part  in  the  founding  of  the  British  Empire; 
but  when  they  have  proven  their  case  they  will  discover  that  while  that 
blood  was  there  a  large  part  of  it  has  left  England  and  is  here  in  America. 
They  have  lost  it.  It  has  come  to  its  own,  to  the  land  of  Joseph,  for 
Joseph's  branch  would  go  over  the  wall  (the  ocean)  to  the  utmost 
bounds  of  the  everlasting  hills. 

GATHERING  PLACE  IN  WESTERN  AMERICA 

This  is  the  land  of  Joseph.  Some  twenty-eight  thousand  converts 
to  the  Church,  in  the  hundred  years  of  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  in 
England,  have  come  into  the  fold  in  that  land,  and  most  of  them  have 
come  to  America.  Also  from  the  Scandinavian  countries,  from  the 
central  countries  of  Europe,  from  Germany  and  Holland  and  Switzer- 
land, they  have  come  in  great  numbers.  This  choice  stock  has  responded 
to  the  Gospel  appeal,  to  the  highest  standards  that  have  ever  been  offered 
to  man,  and  they  have  been  brought  to  America. 

They  were  not  left,  like  many  of  the  poorer  emigrants,  in  the  con- 
gested centers  of  the  East,  but  by  the  devotion  and  self-sacrifice  of  our 
fathers  they  were  brought  into  this  western  land,  where  the  old  prophets 
saw  them.  For  in  the  last  days  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  was 
to  be  established  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  and  all  nations,  or  people 
of  all  nations,  were  to  flow  unto  it.  This  is  the  place,  and  here  we  came, 
willingly,  because  we  had  to.   So  we  are  here,  in  the  right  place. 

And  what  for?  To  obtain  the  natural  advantages  of  America? 
Yes,  and  to  have  some  superior  advantages,  advantages  of  leadership. 
We  have  the  protection  and  blessing  that  comes  through  the  Constitution 
and  the  government  of  this  country,  through  the  wealth  of  the  soil. 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 


These  are  ours.  And  here  we  mingle  and  mix  the  blood  of  the  nations, 
the  choice  blood  of  the  nations,  the  descendants  of  Joseph  producing  here, 
for  that  is  the  purpose,  the  greatest  race  of  men  and  women  that  have 
ever  lived,  under  the  most  ideal  conditions.  And  what  for?  Great  are 
those  objectives. 

TIMES  OF  THE  GENTILES 

Our  mission  of  gathering  this  branch  of  the  house  of  Israel  from 
the  Gentile  nations  was  to  be  accomplished  during  the  "times  of  the 
Gentiles."  One  of  our  revelations  says,  that  the  generation  that  saw  the 
light  break  forth  would  see  the  close  of  the  times  of  the  Gentiles.  When 
that  is  accomplished  then  cometh  the  day  for  the  rest  of  the  house  of 
Israel.  We  are  not  to  be  alone.  You  Latter-day  Saints  must  prepare 
yourselves  to  become  the  saviors  of  all  the  rest  of  the  house  of  Israel ; 
even  as  Joseph  saved  them  long  ago,  you  are  to  save  them,  and  their  day 
is  dawning. 

GATHERING  OF  THE  JEWS 

I  look  to  the  Jew.  Notwithstanding  all  his  distress  and  peril 
through  the  ages  that  have  passed,  he  seems  to  be  in  another  peril,  and 
yet  I  see  the  hand  of  God  in  it.  He  was  to  go  to  his  native  land,  to  the 
land  of  promise  for  Judah,  to  the  Holy  Land,  and  they  are  going,  though 
many  of  them  are  going  as  our  fathers  came  west — willingly  because 
they  had  to.  Even  Hitler  is  used  as  an  instrument,  in  the  hands  of  God, 
of  driving  them  where  the  Lord  wants  them. 

Oh  you,  our  half  brothers,  Oh,  that  I  could  speak  to  you  and  your 
hearts  could  feel  it  and  know  that  God  has  not  forsaken  you !  Your 
hour  is  coming.  Your  deliverance  is  at  hand.  Do  not  complain,  but 
be  patient,  and  go  where  the  Lord  wants  you,  for  he  yet  will  redeem 
you.   Your  hour  is  dawning.   Let  there  be  no  doubt  about  it. 

I  would  like  our  Jewish  brethren  to  know  that  Moses  has  appeared 
in  this  generation  and  in  the  Kirtland  Temple  delivered  the  keys  of  the 
gathering  of  Israel  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  that  an  Apostle  of 
this  dispensation  has  blessed  the  land  of  Palestine  for  the  return  of  the 
Jews.    We  are  confident  that  this  blessing  will  be  realized. 

DESCENDANTS  OF  LEHI 

To  the  descendants  of  Father  Lehi,  who  have  suffered  so  long, 
for  whom  we  received  the  precious  record  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,- — ■ 
it  did  not  come  to  us  for  our  sake,  it  was  committed  into  our  hands  to 
hold  in  custody  for  these  millions  who  are  in  Mexico,  Central  America 
and  South  America — their  day  must  come.  It  is  coming,  and  I  see 
the  hand  of  God  preparing  for  their  deliverance.  But  you,  you  must 
lead  the  way. 

LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  TO  BE  LEADERS 


The  distresses  that  are  in  northern  Europe,  in  Russia,  are  only  the 
prelude  to  the  day  of  deliverance,  for  great  hosts  of  Israel,  of  other 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


45 


tribes,  are  in  that  north  land.  Their  day  will  come,  but  you  must  lead 
the  way.  Your  mission  is  to  be  the  redeemer  and  pilot  and  guide  for 
these  hosts  of  Israel. 

We  also  have  a  mission  to  prepare  ourselves,  through  subscribing 
to  the  principles  of  this  Gospel,  to  become  the  light  of  the  world,  the 
very  salt  of  the  earth,  in  a  day  when  men  will  lose  faith  in  God,  and  even 
the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ  will  be  questioned.  Your  mission  is,  there- 
fore, to  indeed  arise  and  shine.  We  plead  with  you  to  subscribe  to  these 
Gospel  standards,  because  they  are  the  rules  we  must  subscribe  to,  if  we 
shall  be  worthy  to  come  to  live  in  the  presence  of  God. 

A  KING  IN  PROCESSION 

I  was  deeply  impressed,  at  the  funeral  of  the  late  King  George  of 
England,  by  an  incident  that  happened  when  the  kings  of  Europe  came 
to  do  him  homage.  Among  them  was  a  European  king  who  the  night 
before  had  imbibed  too  much  bad  English  whiskey.  He  was  not  on  his 
feet  and  ready  to  join  the  procession  the  next  morning,  and  an  English 
masseur  was  sent  to  work  with  him  and  put  him  in  condition.  But  he 
was  not  ready  when  finally  the  procession  moved,  and  the  English  mas- 
seur was  pressed  to  hold  an  unsteady  king  on  his  feet.  A  moving  picture 
was  taken  of  it,  and  in  identifying  these  kings  they  could  not  discover 
which  king  this  was,  with  his  duffy  hat  on,  with  his  sweater  coat  protrud- 
ing below  his  other  coat,  and  a  pair  of  white  duck  pants  on.  Then  they 
found  he  was  not  a  king  at  all,  not  fit  to  be  with  kings.  He  did  not  know 
the  rules  of  the  game,  and  had  not  the  honor  and  the  right. 

I  said  to  myself  :  How  many  of  us  would  be  fit  to  walk  with  the  kings 
and  know  their  rules,  their  etiquette,  their  customs  ?  We  would  need  a 
good  deal  of  training  to  be  a  lady  or  a  gentleman  in  the  presence  of  an 
earthly  king,  and  yet  we  aspire  to  come  into  the  presence  of  the  Great 
King!  Surely  not  without  preparation!  That  is  what  life  is  for;  that 
is  what  this  Gospel  is  for. 

THE  STRAIT  GATE  AND  THE  NARROW  WAY 

There  came  a  time,  in  the  mission  of  the  Christ,  when  he  saw  great 
multitudes  turn  away  from  him,  and  he  turned  to  his  disciples  and  said : 
"Will  you  go  also  ?"  And  the  answer :  "It  is  pretty  hard,  the  things  you 
ask  us  to  do,  but  thou  hast  the  words  of  eternal  life.  We  know  that. 
Hard  as  it  is,  whither  shall,  we  go  ?"  And  then  one  of  the  disciples  said  : 
"If  men  have  to  subscribe  to  these  requirements,  are  there  then  to  be 
only  a  few  who  shall  be  saved?"  And  he  answered  them:  "Strait  is 
the  gate  and  narrow  is  the  way  that  leadeth  to  life."  He  meant  life  in 
the  celestial  kingdom,  in  the  presence  of  God,  "and  few  there  be  that 
find  it ;  but  broad  is  the  way  and  wide  is  the  gate  that  leadeth  to  death" — 
the  loss  of  that  celestial  exaltation — "and  many  there  be  who  go  in 
thereat." 

We  have  found  the  strait  gate,  the  narrow  way,  the  divine  authority 
to  pilot  men  and  women  in  that  way.    All  these  things  we  ask  of  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Latter-day  Saints,  whether  it  be  subscribing  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
the  payment  of  their  tithing,  keeping  themselves  clean  and  undefiled 
from  the  world,  are  to  fit  and  train  and  prepare  ourselves  to  walk 
through  the  strait  gate  and  the  narrow  way  to  that  exaltation  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  God. 


To  learn  how  to  live  in  the  presence  of  the  King,  that  is  the  mission 
of  this  Church  in  training  and  preparing  men  and  women.  It  is  the 
great  goal  and  objective.  It  is  not  practicing  self-denial  just  because  we 
are  asked  to  do  it,  but  it  is  to  prepare  for  eternal  living  and  exaltation. 
When  we  do  this  we  shall  become  the  very  light  of  the  world. 

God  help  us  to  keep  our  eyes  upon  these  great  objectives,  which 
we  never  shall  reach  unless  we  pay  the  price  of  subscribing  to  these 
requirements  of  the  Gospel,  and  learning  to  like  it  and  to  live  it  and 
to  find  joy  in  it. 

God  help  us  in  the  struggle.  God  keep  before  us  ever  the  distant 
goal;  give  us  the  courage  to  rally  our  wayward,  faltering  ones — this  is 
the  mission  for  this  Church,  not  to  be  like  the  world,  but  to  become 
the  light  of  the  world — I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Singing  Mothers  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "God 
Moves  in  a  Mysterious  Way." 


I  am  very  pleased,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  am  permitted 
to  stand  before  you  again,  enjoying  the  measure  of  health  and  strength 
God  has  given  unto  me.  He  has  been  very  kind  to  me  in  the  matter  of 
health  and  strength,  for  there  have  been  very  few  occasions  when  I  have 
been  deprived  of  the  privilege  of  doing  my  daily  turn. 

However,  there  are  other  things  for  which  I  am  equally  thankful 
and  grateful.  Health  and  strength,  so  much  as  we  value  them,  and  the 
power  to  do,  as  important  as  it  is,  I  think,  by  me,  would  be  little  appre- 
ciated if  I  did  not  have  the  wonderful  associations  and  surroundings  with 
which  I  am  blessed.  I  believe  that  if  I  had  to  go  off  and  work  by 
myself,  even  though  I  might  work  from  before  daylight  until  after  dark, 
I  would  get  little  joy  and  little  pleasure  and  little  profit  out  of  it. 

My  joy  comes  from  the  privilege  of  working  with  my  fellows.  I 
am  truly  thankful  that  my  associates  are  numbered  among  the  people  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  thankful  that 
my  grandfathers,  on  both  sides  of  my  house,  saw  fit  to  embrace  the  truth 
and  come  out  of  the  world  to  the  West,  along  with  the  membership  of 
this  great  Church ;  that  they  had  a  faith  so  true  that  it  led  them  to  pull 
up  the  stakes  which  they  had  driven  so  deeply,  and  start  again  in  a  new 
country.    I  thank  the  Lord  that  that  faith  remained  with  them  and 


PREPARATION  NEEDED 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


47 


carried  them  through  to  the  end  of  their  lives,  and  I  pray  that  God  will 
so  bless  me  that  I  may  carry  that  faith  in  my  heart  every  day  that  I  live ; 
that  I  shall  have  a  desire  to  serve  Him  in  righteousness,  as  I  know  that 
I  should. 

This  is  a  troublous  time  and  the  world  is  sick.  If  we  can  read  the* 
newspapers  and  rely  upon  what  they  tell  us,  the  world  is  sick  and  needs 
a  physician.  Men  are  wondering  what  is  wrong,  arid  how  we  can  correct 
it.  I  believe  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has 
within  it  the  power  which,  if  it  were  applied  to  the  world  at  large, 
would  solve  all  those  problems. 

I  thank  God  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
not  a  political  organization ;  that  its  members,  in  affairs  ecclesiastical,  are 
not  torn  by  party  politics ;  that  they  have  a  common  motive  of  union  and 
unity  of  purpose  which  enables  them  to  overcome  the  bickerings,  the 
jealousies  of  politics.  It  will  never  be,  perhaps,  that  the  nations  of  the 
world  will  not  be  governed  by  politics,  but  I  would  that  God  might  grant 
that  those  who  determine  the  politics  of  those  nations  might  be  touched 
just  a  little  in  their  hearts  by  his  Spirit,  that  love  and  the  interests  of  one's 
fellows  might,  in  a  tiny  degree  at  least,  supplant  the  avarice  and  the 
greed  and  the  jealousies  that  dominate  those  organizations,  so  that  the 
Spirit  of  God  might  enter  in  and  might  lead  in  the  councils  of  government 
and  committees  which  represent  governments.  If  it  could,  it  would  be 
a  simple  matter  to  recognize  the  principles  of  truth  and  justice  that  un- 
derlie, or  should  underlie  all  government.  I  thank  God  that  we  have  in 
this  Church  those  basic  principles. 

A  man  prominent  in  the  philosophy  of  the  world  was  invited 
recently  to  this  State  to  talk  to  the  people  on  the  troubles  of  the  day, 
and  one  thought  that  I  got  out  of  his  talk  was  his  definition  of  democracy. 
He  undertook  to  tell  us  that  democracy  does  not  consist  in  a  set  of  rules 
which  provide  for  the  election  of  representatives  of  the  people,  whom  we 
name  presidents  and  senators  and  representatives,  but  democracy  is  a 
condition  of  the  heart ;  democracy  consists  in  the  recognition,  on  the 
part  of  one  person,  of  the  rights  of  another,  and  the  thought  that  the 
common  good  is  the  determining  principle,  or  should  be,  in  all  govern- 
ment; that  men  who  are  placed  in  prominent  positions  to  direct  the 
destinies  of  people  derive  that  right  from  the  voice  of  the  people.  In 
other  words,  that  the  people  is  sovereign,  and  the  ruler  is  the  servant  of 
the  people. 

Our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ,  taught  that  when  he  said :  "He 
that  is  greatest  among  you  shall  be  your  servant."   Verily  this  is  true. 

Democracy  is  the  underlying  principle,  when  it  comes  to  government 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  have  stood  in 
this  pulpit  before  and  stressed  the  fact  that  that  democracy  is  represented 
in  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church  of  God. 

Another  man  was  imported,  just  recently,  to  talk  to  us,  a  prominent 
man,  an  analyst,  a  student  of  the  times,  and  he  gave  as  his  remedy  for 
the  ills  of  the  present  day  an  increase  in  faith.  It  was  extremely  gratify- 
ing to  me  to  hear  that  man  say  that  faith  in  God  would  cure  our  ills,  and 
verily  that  also  is  true.  I  find  that  condition  existing  in  this  Church,  and 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

I  believe  that  this  quality  of  faith  is  the  purest  and  the  best  that  can  be 
found  in  the  world. 

Give  me  a  body  of  men  and  women  who  actually  believe  that  they 
have  a  Father  in  Heaven,  in  whose  likeness  they  are  fashioned,  who  is 
actually  in  control  of  the  destinies  of  men,  and  who  has  a  real  interest 
in  the  accomplishments  of  his  people,  and  I  will  give  you  a  people  who 
are  willing  to  go  to  the  end  of  the  road  to  serve  that  kind  of  a  Father. 

That  is  the  faith  that  exists  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  believe  verily  that  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  told 
the  world  that  he  had  seen  God,  that  God  and  Jesus  Christ  were  similar 
beings,  and  that  we  are  fashioned  in  their  image,  he  told  the  truth.  Jesus 
Christ  told  his  followers  he  would  build  his  church  upon  the  revelation 
to  them  of  that  truth  that  Jesus  was  the  Son  of  God.  So  long  as  we 
can  keep  uppermost  in  our  hearts  that  testimony,  can  actually  believe  in 
God,  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  sincerely  believe  as  we  do  that  we  have 
been  commissioned  to  serve  his  purposes  in  connection  with  mankind,  we 
will  serve  him  in  righteousness,  to  the  best  of  our  ability. 

Now,  there  is  perhaps  too  great  a  lack  of  service  on  the  part  of 
all  of  us.  I  wish  that  I  could  serve  with  greater  fidelity  the  ideals  that  I 
have  in  this  respect.  I  wish  that  I  had  a  stronger  and  firmer  faith  in  my 
own  ability  to  remain  firm  to  my  present  convictions  to  the  end  of  my 
days.  I  have  a  faith  that  God  will  never  desert  us,  that  his  promises  are 
real  and  true,  and  if  we  can  live  up  to  that  faith,  and  keep  it  ever  bright 
and  green  in  our  hearts,  so  that  it  will  be  the  motivating  power  in  our 
lives,  I  have  no  question  as  to  the  ultimate  result  and  end  of  our  activities. 

I  have  faith  in  God.  I  have  faith  in  my  brethren  who  constitute 
the  Church  .of  God,  and  in  their  wives  and  daughters,  the  women  of  this 
Church.  I  do  not  know  but  that  the  time  may  come  when  this  body  of 
people  will  be  the  nucleus  around  which  this  faith  will  have  to  crystallize 
itself  to  save  the  civilization  of  the  world. 

Now,  we  have  a  great  charge  and  a  great  duty.  Let  us  prove  true 
to  it.  Let  us  dedicate  every  day  of  our  lives  to  the  service  of  God  and 
our  fellow  men,  and  he  will  bless  us, — bless  us  beyond  our  anticipations, 
bless  us  with  glories  that  are  greater  than  the  accumulation  of  riches,  of 
many  houses  and  many  herds  and  many  flocks.  That  this  may  be  our 
happy  lot,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

It  is  my  desire,  if  the  Lord  approve,  to  discuss  one  of  the  best  known 
principles  of  the  Gospel.  It  is  good  at  times  to  review  that  which  we 
know  well.  I  have  in  mind  the  doctrine  that  only  when  knowledge  is 
properly  used  does  it  become  serviceable  in  promoting  human  welfare. 

SORROWS  AND  JOYS  MINGLED 

One  hundred  years  ago,  the  Church,  which  was  then  operating  in 
Ohio,  and  Missouri,  was,  as  it  were,  on  trial  for  its  life.   The  year  1838 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


49 


was  a  fateful  one.  Persecution  raged  until  men's  hearts  failed  them; 
trusted  members  of  the  Church,  holding  high  positions,  turned  away 
from  the  Church  and  in  some  cases  betrayed  their  brethren.  But,  at  the 
same  time  noble  spirits,  were  found  to  take  the  vacant  places ;  two  men 
were  then  called  to  the  apostleship,  were  later  called  to  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church ;  unexampled  acts  of  courage  were  performed  by  the  Priest- 
hood; revelations  of  marvelous  value  were  received  by  the  Church.  It 
was  a  year  of  sorrow  and  also  of  joy. 

OLIVER  COWDERY  AND  DAVID  WHITMER 

Perhaps  the  event  of  that  troubled  year  which  gave  keenest  sorrow 
was  the  loss  of  Oliver  Cowdery  and  David  Whitmer  from  the  member- 
ship roll  of  the  Church — two  of  the  three  original  witnesses  to  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  men  held  in  high  esteem  by  the  Church.  Oliver  Cowdery 
was  excommunicated,  and  for  many  years  remained  outside  the  Church, 
rather  than  to  confess  his  error  and  repent.  David  Whitmer  withdrew 
from  the  Church  rather  than  to  face  trial  upon  the  charges  made  against 
him.  The  absence  from  the  councils  of  the  Church  of  these  fine  men 
who  had  been  so  gloriously  blessed  by  heaven  was  grieved  by  the  whole 
Church  membership. 

Though  these  men  were  no  longer  members  of  the  Church,  yet  they 
always  maintained  the  truth  of  their  testimony  as  found  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  and  their  belief  in  the  divinity  of  the  revelations  given  to  Jo- 
seph Smith,  the  Prophet.  Moreover,  Oliver  Cowdery,  after  some  years, 
humbly  entered  the  waters  of  baptism  again,  and  was  on  his  way  to  plead 
with  David  Whitmer  to  return  to  the  Church,  when  death  overtook  him. 
both  affirmed  with  their  last  breath  the  truth  of  their  testimony  regarding 
the  Lord's  latter-day  work.  Their  knowledge  of  the  truth  of  the  restored 
Gospel  did  not  leave  them. 

Naturally  the  question  arises :  How  could  these  men,  both  of  whom 
had  seen  the  angelic  guardian  of  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon was  translated  and  the  plates  themselves,  and  one  of  whom  in  addi- 
tion had  been  privileged  to  have  converse  with  heavenly  beings,  John  the 
Baptist,  Peter,  James  and  John — how  could  such  men  so  conduct  them- 
selves as  to  endanger  their  Church  membership  or  be  content  to  remain 
outside  the  Church?  They  had  knowledge,  beyond  that  of  other  men,  of 
the  reality  and  divinity  of  the  events  which  led  to  the  organization  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  answer  to  the  question  is  simple,  well  understood  by  all.  These 
brethren  did  not  use  their  knowledge  in  conformity  with  the  order  of  the 
Church  as  set  forth  in  the  revelations  of  the  Lord.  That  is,  they  entered 
forbidden  paths;  they  did  not  obey  the  commandments  of  God.  The 
practices  of  their  lives  did  not  correspond  with  their  knowledge. 

KNOWLEDGE  NOT  ALL-SUFFICIENT 

This  historical  event  within  the  Church  is  evidence  of  the  fact  that 
knowledge  alone  does  not  and  cannot  secure  human  happiness,  or  move  a 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


person  towards  salvation.  If  further  evidence  of  the  insufficiency  of 
knowledge  is  needed,  we  may  survey  the  great  number  of  men  of  high 
intellectual  attainment,  who,  because  of  their  criminal  acts,  are  found  in 
the  prisons  of  the  world.  Knowledge  may  become  the  pathway  to  evil 
when  not  applied  as  directed  by  the  Gospel  plan. 

True,  we  have  been  commanded  to  seek  all  knowledge ;  the  Lord  has 
also  said  that  "it  is  impossible  to  be  saved  in  ignorance",  and  that  "If  a 
person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life  through  his 
diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so  much  the  advantage 
in  the  world  to  come."  However,  it  is  equally  true  that  the  gaining  of 
knowledge  is  but  a  first  necessary  step  in  a  progressive  life.  Knowledge 
must  be  quickened  and  made  alive  by  proper  use. 


This  doctrine  is  made  clear  in  sacred  writ.  Among  the  many  great 
truths  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  none  is  more  beloved  by  the 
Church  than  "The  Glory  of  God  is  intelligence."  The  word  intelligence, 
as  used  in  common  speech,  means  readiness  in  learning,  quickness  of 
mind.  Its  higher  Gospel  meaning  is  more  profound.  The  intelligent 
man  is  he  who  seeks  knowledge  and  uses  it  in  accordance  with  the  plan 
of  the  Lord  for  human  good.  This  is  implied  in  the  revelation  from 
which  the  quotation  is  made,  for  the  full  sentence  reads,  "The  glory  of 
God  is  intelligence,  or  in  other  words,  light  and  truth."  When  men  fol- 
low the  light  their  knowledge  will  always  be  well  used. 

Intelligence,  then,  becomes  but  another  name  for  wisdom.  In  the 
language  of  mathematics  we  may  say  that  knowledge,  plus  the  proper 
use  of  knowledge,  equals  intelligence,  or  wisdom.  In  this  sense  intelli- 
gence becomes  the  goal  of  the  successful  life.  Knowledge  is  one  of  the 
means  by  which  such  intelligence  is  attained;  the  use  of  knowledge  is 
equally  as  important,  for  it  gives  life  and  direction  to  knowledge.  The 
whole  matter  is  much  like  faith  and  repentance — neither  is  complete  with- 
out the  other.  When  faith  becomes  active  through  repentance,  man  rises 
towards  his  God-like  destiny.  Faith  itself,  built  upon  human  experience, 
conforming  to  God's  will,  is  but  a  type  of  higher  intelligence.  Thus  it 
often  happens  that  a  person  of  limited  knowledge  but  who  earnestly  and 
prayerfully  obeys  the  law,  rises  to  a  higher  intelligence  or  wisdom,  than 
one  of  vast  Gospel  learning  who  does  not  comply  in  his  daily  life  with 
the  requirements  of  the  Gospel.  Obedience  to  law  is  a  mark  of  intelli- 
gence. 


The  preeminence  of  wisdom  in  meeting  the  urgent  needs  of  men  and 
nations  has  been  recognized  throughout  the  ages.  It  was  Solomon,  the 
young  king  of  Israel,  who  chose  wisdom  and  knowledge  from  among  all 
the  gifts  offered  him  by  the  Lord,  and  in  return  was  blessed  beyond 
measure.  It  was  the  statement  of  the  Apostle  James  concerning  the  lack 
of  wisdom  that  led  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  into  the  grove  where  he  re- 


INTELLIGENCE  QUICKENS  KNOWLEDGE 


WISDOM  MAN'S  GREAT  NEED 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


ceived  his  first  great  vision.  The  world's  great  need  today,  in  the  midst  of 
man-made  confusion  and  horror,  is  wisdom.  Man  is  rich  in  knowledge, 
surpassing  every  earlier  time  on  earth.  He  has  harnessed  the  forces  of 
nature  until  they  are  subservient  to  his  every  wish  and  whim.  But  he 
uses  his  new-found  power  as  readily  to  destroy  as  to  make  well.  That  is 
not  intelligence,  that  is  unwisdom.  Should  the  world  resolve  to  seek  wis- 
dom as  it  gains  knowledge,  the  dawn  of  the  hoped-for,  longed-for  era  of 
peace  would  rise  in  the  East. 

This  thought  may  be  applied  to  our  every  duty  and  task.  He  who 
knows  the  necessity  and  value  of  prayer  and  then  does  not  commune  with 
God  in  prayer  is  unwise,  and  to  that  degree  unintelligent.  Whoever 
learns  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  does  not  practice  it  belongs  to  the  same 
class.  The  man  who  cannot  part  with  a  tenth  of  his  income  for  the  Lord 
is  unwise  and  in  the  Gospel  sense  is  unintelligent.  A  great  church  se- 
curity program  has  been  announced  under  divine  inspiration.  To  fail  to 
support  this  notable  movement,  which  has  come  to  remain  with  us,  implies 
a  failure  to  put  knowledge  into  action — that  is  unwisdom.  So  with  every 
other  Gospel  requirement.  This  principle  impels  the  Church  at  great 
sacrifice  to  maintain  its  educational  system,  its  auxiliaries,  its  Priesthood 
organizations,  so  that  the  secular  knowledge  taught  in  the  schools  of  the 
land  may  be  fitted  actively  by  purposeful  use  in  human  lives,  into  the 
Lord's  great  plan  of  salvation,  the  only  plan  that  leads  to  lasting  human 
joy. 

DISOBEDIENCE  IS  SIN 

A  sombre  thought  accompanies  this  doctrine.  To  possess  knowledge, 
and  not  to  use  it,  or  not  to  use  it  properly,  is  a  sin.  The  failure  of  the  hu- 
man will  to  render  obedience  to  God's  law  is  not  only  unintelligent  and 
unwise,  it  is  sinful.  On  one  occasion  the  Lord  said  to  the  Church, 
through  the  latter-day  Prophet:  "There  are  many  who  have  been  or- 
dained among  you,  whom  I  have  called  but  few  of  them  are  chosen.  They 
who  are  not  chosen  have  sinned  a  very  grievous  sin,  in  that  they  are  walk- 
ing in  darkness  at  noon-day".  Oliver  Cowdery  and  David  Whitmer 
were  in  the  noon-day  of  knowledge,  yet  walked  in  darkness.  Wisdom 
had  departed  from  them.  Therefore  they  were  in  sin.  So  may  any  man 
close  his  eyes  in  full  sunlight  and  walk  in  darkness  and  commit  a  sin  be- 
fore God.  The  nations  of  earth,  sated  with  knowledge,  in  the  full  light 
of  a  Gospel  dispensation,  walk  in  darkness.  Therefore,  the  wages  of  sin 
are  theirs.  Their  wars  and  contentions  are  sinful  before  the  Lord,  and 
punishment  will  follow  until  they  open  their  eyes  to  the  light. 

The  divine  warning  has  been  given :  "If  you  keep  not  my  command- 
ments, the  love  of  the  Father  shall  not  continue  with  you,  therefore  ye 
shall  walk  in  darkness."  Obedience  to  law  leads  to  intelligence  and  wis- 
dom and  frees  men  from  darkness  and  the  charge  of  sin. 

RESPONSIBILITY  COMES  WITH  KNOWLEDGE 

Latter-day  Saints,  who  have  received  the  greater  knowledge,  are  un- 
der the  heavier  condemnation,  if  they  fail  to  conform  in  their  lives  to  the 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

revealed  law.  Besides,  our  responsibility  is  not  for  ourselves  alone,  but 
for  the  whole  human  race.  Intelligence  must  garnish  all  that  we  do,  else 
how  can  we  fulfil  our  destiny,  so  well  spoken  in  ancient  days:  "I  will 
raise  thee  up  for  a  blessing  among  many  people." 

The  joyful  struggle  of  life  must  be,  if  we  really  hope  for  happiness, 
to  live  lives  of  knowledge,  used  as  the  Lord  desires,  with  intelligence  and 
wisdom.  Every  wise  person  will  ask  himself  before  every  act,  Does  it 
conform  to  the  law  of  the  Lord?  and  at  the  close  of  each  day,  Have  I 
lived  intelligently  and  with  wisdom  as  my  guide  ?  Then,  in  full  light  we 
shall  see  clearly  the  path  and  the  goal,  and  avoid  the  perils  and  terrors  of 
darkness. 

May  the  Lord  so  help  us  to  live,  that  in  the  full  noon-day  of  Gospel 
light,  we  may  never  walk  in  darkness,  but  with  wisdom  perform  the 
duties  of  our  lives. 

ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

It  is  a  rather  long  way  up  these  stairs.  It  reminds  me  somewhat  of 
life  itself.  As  one  seeks  to  reach  the  point  of  vantage  he  may  put  forth 
a  great  deal  of  effort,  he  may  possibly  meet  some  obstacles  in  the  way, 
but  it  is  when  he  reaches  his  point  of  vantage  that  his  responsibilities 
really  begin. 

I  have  been  very  happy  here  in  contact  with  our  leaders  and  those 
to  whom  we  look  for  instruction  and  counsel,  and  I  have  been  very  happy 
in  taking  part  in  the  fine  spirit  which  has  characterized  this  great  Con- 
ference. 

Yesterday  as  I  listened  to  that  broadcast  I  had  a  feeling  of  personal 
gratitude  toward  those  who  are  taking  part.  I  think  I  have  not  talked 
with  any  person,  either  member  or  non-member  of  the  Church  in  our 
mission  who  has  mentioned  our  Church  and  its  activities  who  has  not 
referred  to  the  broadcasts  of  our  Tabernacle  Choir,  and  in  all  cases  they 
have  had  nothing  to  say  except  in  the  way  of  praise.  I  hope  sometime 
they  may  hear  the  Singing  Mothers. 

I  was  very  happy  too  to  listen  to  that  fine  declaration  of  principles 
given  by  Elder  Bowen  yesterday  over  the  nation-wide  broadcast.  I 
realized  that  many  thousand  people  whom  we  are  trying  to  reach  were 
listening  in,  and  I  know  what  they  will  say,  those  to  whom  I  may  speak 
of  it.  I  know  what  their  reaction  will  be,  they  will  say,  "If  you  preach 
principles  and  doctrines  of  that  kind  I  want  to  know  more  of  you." 

There  are  within  the  boundaries  of  that  mission  seventeen  million 
people.  There  are  twenty-two  cities  with  over  100,000  inhabitants ;  there 
are  800  cities  of  more  than  2500  people,  and  there  are  seven  million 
people  in  small  villages,  and  on  the  467,000  farms.  I  believe  there  is 
every  kind  of  problem  there  in  that  area  known  to  our  country — econom- 
ic, social,  religious.  I  believe  that  probably  all  of  the  religious  denomi- 
nations within  the  country  are  represented  in  that  great  area,  and  we 
have  contacted  many  of  them.    We  find  many  fine,  kindly,  and  well- 


ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 


S3 


disposed  people,  and  our  missionaries  make  many  favorable  contacts 
with  them. 

It  seems  rather  strange  that  we  can  expect  that  fewer  than  a  hundred 
missionaries  can  reach  with  any  degree  of  success  at  all  such  a  vast 
multitude  of  people,  but  they  have  the  promise  of  the  Lord : 

You  shall  have  my  Spirit  and  my  word,  yea,  the  power  of  God  unto  the 
convincing  of  men.    (Doctrine  and  Covenants  11 :21) 

For  I  will  give  you  a  mouth  and  wisdom  which  all  your  adversaries 
shall  not  be  able  to  gainsay  nor  to  resist.    (Luke  21 :  15) 

In  consequence  they  have  gone  forward  and  in  the  last  calendar 
year  they  have  visited  in  homes  166,000  people.  They  distributed  250,000 
pieces  of  literature;  they  held  more  than  36,500  meetings;  they  used 
the  radio  on  hundreds  of  occasions,  and  they  entertained  and  instructed 
people  by  the  means  of  music,  both  vocal  and  instrumental.  They  are 
young  men  and  women  who  are  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  and 
who  believe  in  doing  good  to  all  men.  I  am  thankful  to  the  fathers  and 
mothers  who  have  maintained  real  Latter-day  Saint  homes,  for  there 
is  where  these  young  men  and  women  receive  their  training.  They  go 
into  the  mission  field  prepared  and  you  do  not  find  the  stain  of  nicotine 
upon  their  hands,  nor  the  odor  of  intoxicants  in  their  breath.  They  have 
been  taught  correct  principles,  and  if  anyone  has  ever  looked  with  any 
degree  of  cynicism  upon  the  teachings  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  I  wish 
they  could  have  the  example  before  them  that  we  see  in  the  mission  field. 
I  honor  and  thank  those  men  and  women  who  have  persistently  taught, 
who  have  had  the  courage  and  the  inspiration  to  teach  and  to  advise,  and 
to  keep  before  the  people  these  important  principles. 

The  thought  occurred  to  me  yesterday  that  was  expressed  I  think  by 
Ruskin : 

When  we  build,  let  us  think  that  we  build  forever.  Let  it  not  be  only 
for  present  use  or  present  delight ;  let  it  be  such  work  as  our  descendants 
will  thank  us  for  it. 

I  do  thank  these  brethren  and  sisters.  As  we  lay  stone  on  stone, 
let  those  stones  be  held  sacred  because  our  hands  have  touched  them,  and 
finally,  when  the  work  is  done,  may  our  descendants  look  upon  it  and  say, 
"See,  this  our  fathers  built  for  us." 

I  believe  that  the  work  of  the  Mission  is  blessed.  I  believe  that 
we  have  had  the  blessings  of  the  Lord.  It  is  only  those  who  are  humble 
who  dare  undertake  such  important  work.  I  pray  always  for  humility 
to  keep  within  me  the  spirit  of  thankfulness  and  the  recognition  of  the 
great  power  which  is  over  us  and  under  which  we  work  and  do  our  ser- 
vice. I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  continue  to  bless  us.  I  sincerely  pray  that 
His  Spirit  may  be  with  us. 

In  conclusion  I  must  take  time  to  mention  one  thing.  My  first  intro- 
duction to  the  Mission,  by  the  way,  was  in  company  with  President  Don 
B.  Colton  at  Palmyra  on  the  occasion  of  the  summer  conference.  Many 
people  have  asked  me,  and  they  constantly  ask  me  there,  as  to  whether  or 
not  that  great  pageant,  "America's  Witness  for  Christ"  is  to  be  repeated 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

this  year.  I  answer  of  course  in  the  affirmative.  It  is  to  be  repeated. 
The  conference  is  to  be  held  again.  I  think  I  received  more  inspiration 
there  upon  that  occasion  than  in  a  like  period  at  any  other  time  in  my 
life — to  see  the  home  of  the  Prophet,  to  attend  those  meetings  in  the 
Sacred  Grove,  to  see  the  sacred  drama,  this  great  pageant  upon  the  Hill 
Cumorah,  and  to  witness  those  other  scenes  that  are  so  historic  and  im- 
portant to  us.  I  thought  of  the  words  which  came  to  Moses,  "The  place 
on  which  thou  standest  is  holy  ground." 

Yes,  the  pageant  will  be  repeated  this  year.  The  Conference  will 
be  held  as  usual.  The  Hill  Cumorah  is  now  listed  on  all  the  principal  and 
official  road-maps,  and  many,  many  thousands  of  people  travel  that  way. 
I  hope  that  many  of  the  Saints  from  the  West  may  enjoy  this  occasion 
with  us.  You  have  our  heartiest  invitation  to  be  there. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  all  his  blessings,  and  pray  for  a  continuance  of 
the  same,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

"How  Lovely  Are  Thy  Dwellings,  O  Lord"  (Rheinberger),  was 
sung  by  the  Singing  Mothers. 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  William  A.  Matheson,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Chicago  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Monday  afternoon,  April  4,  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  presided,  announced  that  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  would  furnish  the  musical  numbers  for  this 
session. 

The  congregation  and  the  Singing  Mothers  sang  the  hymn,  "Come, 
Come,  Ye  Saints." 

Elder  Leslie  V.  Merrill,  President  of  the  Franklin  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

An  anthem,  "How  Lovely  Are  The  Messengers"  (Mendelssohn), 
was  sung  by  the  Singing  Mothers. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  mind  and  heart  are  filled  with  the  many  holy  thoughts  that  have 
been  expressed  at  the  meetings  of  this  Conference.  I  am  always  grateful 
when  I  have  the  opportunity  of  listening  to  the  word  of  God  as  expressed 
by  his  servants. 

A  passage  of  scripture,  familiar  to  every  one  present,  is  that  found 
in  the  book  of  James  of  the  New  Testament.  It  reads : 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


55 


If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him. 
But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  wavering. 

These  are  the  words  that  had  such  a  great  influence  on  the  life  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  as  a  result  of  his  reading  them,  he  went  into 
the  woods  and  prayed  for  wisdom  and  understanding,  and  God  answered 
him  by  his  very  presence. 

A  few  days  ago,  we  had  a  very  distinguished  visitor  at  the  Univer- 
sity— Sir  Herbert  Ames.  Versed  as  he  is  in  world  affairs,  it  was  only 
recently  that  he  had  a  personal  interview  with  the  famous  dictator, 
Adolph  Hitler  of  Germany.  In  a  lecture  before  the  students  of  the  Uni- 
versity, he  took  for  his  subject :  "Conditions  in  Germany  Today".  The 
picture  he  drew  of  Germany  and  the  youth  of  that  land  was  anything 
but  encouraging.  He  told  us  that  all  boys  above  the  age  of  twelve  years 
are  put  under  heavy  drill  every  day,  and  are  clothed  with  black  shirts,  the 
uniform  for  the  youth  as  prescribed  by  the  Hitler  government.  In  the 
public  schools,  they  learn  how  to  give  the  Nazi  sign.  By  the  time  the 
boys  are  eighteen  years  of  age,  they  are  ready  to  learn  the  military  tactics 
of  their  country.  Every  boy  then  is  given  a  musket,  and  until  he  is 
thirty-five  years  of  age,  the  daily  drill  teaches  him  the  science  of  warfare. 
In  this  manner,  the  slogan  of  the  old  military  leader,  Bismarck,  is  kept 
alive,  which  was,  "Might  makes  Right".  The  youth  of  Germany  are  be- 
coming war-minded  as  never  before.  During  the  past  hundred  years 
Europe  has  been  steeped  in  warfare.  She  has  literally  been  "washed  in 
blood."  Today  every  European  nation  is  preparing  for  war,  except  the 
smaller  nations  like  Holland  and  Scandinavia. 

A  thoughtful  question  was  asked  of  the  distinguished  scholar  by  a 
student  of  affairs.  It  was :  "What  can  we  do  to  off-set  the  military-mind- 
edness  of  Europeans  today?"  It  was  a  pointed  question,  and  an  interest- 
ing one.  Have  we  not  inherited  the  spirit  of  warfare  from  our  ancestors 
who  went  forth  to  war  to  protect  their  homes,  and  then  for  conquest  ? 
It  seems  that  modern  man  inherits  all  the  innate  pugnacity  and  all  the 
love  of  glory  of  his  ancestors.  Today  the  horrors  of  war  become  man's 
fascination.  War  is  the  "strong  life,"  we  are  told,  and  "war  taxes  are 
the  only  ones  that  we  do  not  hesitate  to  pay." 

Our  ideals  here  in  America  are  those  that  are  far  aloof  from  the 
ideals  of  conquest  and  loot.  The  ideal  of  American  civic  liberty  has  al- 
ways kept  the  Government  from  war  for  conquest.  The  Government  of 
the  United  States  has  never  gone  to  war  except  for  the  protection  of  her 
ideals  and  for  the  protection  of  her  people. 

I  do  not  speak  as  a  Pacifist.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are  not  pacifists 
as  that  term  is  understood  today.  In  the  past,  our  people  have  protected 
the  flag  of  their  country,  and  our  ancestors  took  their  part  in  the  Ameri- 
can Revolution,  which  resulted  in  the  writing  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States.  The  Latter-day  Saints  will  always  be  found  protecting 
the  Constitution  of  this  Government. 

What  will  off-set  war?  What  will  become  the  religious  equivalent 
of  war?   As  I  have  said,  we  have  inherited  the  war-like  type.    Our  an- 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

cestors  have  bred  pugnacity  into  our  bone  and  marrow.  Let  public  opin- 
ion vote  for  war,  nothing  can  stop  or  prevent  our  going  to  war.  I  believe 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  both  the  moral  and  religious  equivalent 
of  war.  Should  the  noted  British  lecturer  and  statesman  attend  our 
Priesthood  meeting  this  evening  to  be  held  in  this  famous  old  building,  he 
would  find  ten  thousand  men  disciplined  for  peace — disciplined  in  the 
principles  of  law  and  justice,  love  for  all  people,  and  for  peace  for  all 
mankind.  And  then  should  all  the  brethren  of  the  Priesthood  gather 
here,  there  would  easily  be  ten  times  ten  thousand  with  the  same  dreams 
and  ideals.  These  men  are  disciplined  not  for  war,  but  for  peace,  for  the 
love  of  mankind  and  God.  What  finer  nucleus  could  one  find  for  the 
moral  and  religious  equivalent  of  war?  It  shows  that  the  martial  type 
of  character  can  be  bred  without  war.  What  is  needed  then  is  for 
us  to  inflame  the  civic  temper,  as  in  the  past  nations  have  inflamed  the 
military  temper.  Should  a  stranger  see  the  Priesthood  assembled  tonight, 
he  would  be  convinced  that  this  organized  body  of  men  is  given  to  the 
ideal  of  the  most  peaceful  of  activities,  namely,  service  for  God. 

The  only  thing  then  that  is  going  to  overcome  war  and  bring  peace 
is  man  himself — man  in  the  social  and  religious  group,  disciplining  him- 
self in  the  ways  of  the  Lord,  disciplining  his  thought,  purifying  his 
heart,  and  uniting  in  one  great  plan  of  the  Priesthood  of  God.  This  will 
be  the  moral  and  religious  equivalent  of  war. 

Said  the  distinguished  English  stateman :  "The  people  who  prepare 
for  war  have  a  battle-cry."  So  we  have  a  battle-cry.  The  cry  is  con- 
tained in  these  words:  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God." 
Every  soul  has  the  right  to  ask  for  wisdom.  And  yet  there  are  hundreds 
of  "battle  cries"  for  peace  that  might  be  sounded.  May  I  propose  an- 
other. In  a  few  days  the  Easter  Day  will  be  celebrated  in  all  Christen- 
dom. What  nobler  words  could  be  taken  for  the  regeneration  of  man 
and  his  purification  than  the  words  of  St.  Mark  in  his  description  of  the 
resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord? 

And  when  the  Sabbath  was  past,  Mary  Magdalene,  and  Mary  the  mo- 
ther of  James,  and  Salome,  had  brought  sweet  spices  that  they  might  come 
and  anoint  him. 

And  very  early  in  the  morning  the  first  day  of  the  week,  they  came  unto 
the  sepulchre  at  the  rising  of  the  sun. 

And  they  said  among  themselves,  Who  shall  roll  us  away  the  stone 
from  the  door  of  the  sepulchre? 

And  when  they  looked,  they  saw  that  the  stone  was  rolled  away;  for 
it  was  very  great. 

And  entering  into  the  sepulchre,  they  saw  a  young  man  sitting  on  the 
right  side,  clothed  in  a  long  white  garment;  and  they  were  affrighted. 

And  he  saith  unto  them,  Be  not  affrighted ;  ye  seek  Jesus  of  Nazareth, 
which  was  crucified :  he  is  risen ;  he  is  not  here ;  Behold  the  place  where 
they  laid  him. 

But  go  your  way,  tell  his  disciples  and  Peter  that  he  goeth  before  you 
into  Galilee :  there  shall  ye  see  him,  as  he  said  unto  you. 

War  is  an  evil  thing,  and  the  only  way  to  fight  evil  is  to  adopt  some 
divine  plan  of  campaign,  given  to  us  in  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord.  Overcome  evil  with  good.  This  is  the  secret  of  the  battle  against 
wrong.   Evil  is  potent  because  it  has  control  of  the  hearts  of  men. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


57 


The  Priesthood  of  God  is  the  religious  and  moral  equivalent  of  war, 
and  we  all  pray  in  our  hearts  that  this  movement  may  grow  until  it  fills  the 
hearts  of  all  people  of  the  earth,  for  it  will  be  the  power  for  enduring 
peace.  When  this  condition  comes  about,  it  will  change  everything.  I 
can  see  the  joy  of  women  and  little  children  some  day,  I  can  see  cities 
and  great  spaces  full  of  happiness,  when  war  shall  have  ceased  and  the 
Kingdom  of  God  has  been  established  among  men. 

It  is  Easter  time.  May  we  not  fill  our  minds  and  hearts  with  the 
holier  thoughts  of  thanksgiving  and  love  for  all  mankind?  May  not  the 
peace  of  our  resurrected  Savior  fill  the  whole  world  with  its  light?  We 
who  labor  for  ideals  which  make  for  triumphant  living  have  the  resources 
of  God  on  our  side,  and  in  this  confidence  it  is  possible  for  the  ways  of 
God  to  triumph.  We  must  work  and  pray  incessantly  that  his  Kingdom 
may  be  established  over  all  the  earth.  It  is  the  illumination  from  on 
high  that  will  awaken  humanity  to  their  divine  worth  and  power.  The 
light  may  be  spreading  slowly,  but  it  is  destined  to  find  the  hearts  of  all 
people.  If  any  of  us  lack  wisdom,  let  us  ask  of  God.  We  will  receive 
the  divine  answer.  That  the  Lord  may  bless  us  all,  I  ask  in  his  name. 
Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  am  grateful  that  I  live  in  this  day  in  which  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  has  been  revealed  in  its  fulness,  which  gives  to  us  power  and 
authority  to  labor  in  the  Priesthood.  When  I  think  of  conditions  today 
as  we  see  them,  I  recall  the  statement  of  Nephi  as  recorded  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon :  "I  have  been  born  of  goodly  parents."  It  is  a  heritage 
to  be  born  of  goodly  parents. 

I  am  grateful  that  in  my  youth  I  had  neighbors  who  were  kind  to 
me  and  who  were  interested  in  me  because  I  had  goodly  parents,  and 
because  those  neighbors  had  in  their  own  soul  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel 
and  a  brotherly  love  and  an  understanding  of  the  Gospel  message.  Be- 
cause of  these,  I  was  taught,  as  Nephi  was  taught,  the  things  which  pertain 
to  God  and  our  exaltation,  and  was  encouraged  to  walk  uprightly  before 
the  Lord.  Through  the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood,  under  the  direction 
of  wise  men,  I  partook  of  blessings  through  passing  on  through  all  the 
grades  of  the  Priesthood  from  Deacon  to  High  Priest.  In  my  youth 
the  great  honor  came  to  me  which  I  now  bear,  and  I  recall  many  early 
experiences  in  visiting  in  the  stakes  where  I  had  the  privilege  of  meeting 
your  fathers — men  whose  heads  were  white,  men  who  had  seen  the 
struggles  of  the  Church  from  its  beginning.  They  received  me  and  the 
message  I  left  with  them  in  the  spirit  of  love  and  kindness,  and  in  depart- 
ing they  heaped  upon  me  their  blessings.  I  am  greatly  blessed  now  as  I 
go  among  the  Saints,  for  I  find  the  sons  and  grandsons  of  these  men 
with  whom  I  labored  as  a  young  man,  laboring  in  the  authority  of  the 
Priesthood,  and  having  known  their  fathers,  I  have  rejoiced  in  the  oppor- 
tunity of  laboring  with  them  also  in  authority  of  the  Priesthood.  They, 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

too,  have  been  born  of  goodly  parents  and  are  following  in  their  fathers' 
footsteps. 

This  morning  at  8 :00  o'clock,  nearly  five  hundred  enthusiastic  men 
met  in  Barratt  Hall  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  ways  and  means  by 
which  the  youth  of  Zion  might  be  inspired  and  redeemed  from  the  pitfalls 
and  the  dangers  which  confront  them.  We  are  living  in  a  dangerous 
age,  an  age  in  which  we  need  every  protection.  We  need  the  kind  con- 
sideration of  each  other ;  we  need  the  spirit  of  brotherly  love,  for  without 
that  the  Spirit  of  God  will  not  dwell  with  man.  I  am  sure  that  those 
who  are  here  will  agree  with  me  in  that,  and  perhaps  it  is  not  necessary 
for  me  to  repeat  it,  but  with  all  the  feeling  of  my  soul  I  rejoice  in  the 
opportunity  which  comes  to  me  of  laboring  for  the  youth  of  the  Church. 

In  the  days  of  our  fathers,  the  problems  were  not  nearly  so  great 
for  the  youth  of  the  Church  as  today.  It  seems  to  me,  Satan  has  been 
turned  loose.  Every  device  that  man  has  been  able  to  discover  to  lead 
the  boy  away  from  the  teachings  of  the  Living  God,  has  been  brought 
forth  and  is  being  used  to  steal  from  our  children  their  heritage.  They 
are  our  heritage,  and  without  them  what  is  life  worth  ?  What  will  it  be 
hereafter?  We  have  all  been  taught  that  the  family  relationship  can  be 
broken  only  through  our  failure  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 
I  cannot  forget  the  teachings  of  my  father.  Sometimes  they  appeared 
to  be  severe,  but  they  always  came  in  a  spirit  of  love  and  kindness.  He 
continually  reminded  us  that  his  salvation  was  at  stake  if  we  failed  to 
uphold  and  live  in  harmony  with  his  teachings,  teachings  which  he  had 
received  from  those  who  had  authority  to  teach,  and  the  inspiration 
which  came  through  power  and  inspiration  from  God,  in  whom  we 
all  believe. 

I  am  grateful  that  I  do  believe  in  God,  that  he  has  spoken  in  this 
day  and  that  we  are  privileged  to  labor  in  authority  of  his  Priesthood ; 
that  we  have  assurance  and  promise  that  through  our  faith  and  diligence 
in  the  performance  of  duty,  we  shall  be  redeemed  and  exalted  in  a  glory 
of  which  we  have  no  thought  nor  can  we  understand  fully  at  this  time. 
So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  happy  to  be  associated  in  this  day  with 
men  and  women  who  fear  God,  men  and  women  who  are  so  living  that 
they  make  it  easier  for  me  to  live  in  harmony  with  these  eternal  prin- 
ciples. Now  is  the  time  when  men  who  fear  God  must  stand  together 
to  protect  themselves  from  the  evils  that  beset  us  on  every  side. 

I  have  been  given  a  great  responsibility,  which  came  to  me  through 
the  call  of  the  First  Presidency  of  this  Church,  the  duties  and  responsi- 
bility of  which  are  set  forth  by  God,  charging  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
in  a  very  positive  manner  to  look  after  and  watch  over  those  who  hold 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  Brethren,  we  cannot  do  this  alone.  We  want 
you  to  help  and  many  are  doing  it.  Let  us  not  permit  those  holding  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  to  develop  habits  which  blind  them  and  take  away 
the  light,  and  bring  instead  the  darkness.  Let  us  watch  them  day  by 
day;  let  us  help  them  to  see  the  dangers,  for  it  is  much  easier  at  that 
time  than  it  is  to  bring  them  back  after  the  spirit  of  the  evil  one  has 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


59 


taken  possession  of  them.  Then  sometimes  it  is  too  late.  Let  us  labor 
together  in  a  spirit  of  love  and  in  all  diligence. 

May  the  blessings  of  God  rest  upon  all  of  us  continually;  may  we 
walk  in  the  light  of  the  Gospel  message  and  have  strength  and  power 
to  accomplish  his  purposes ;  may  we,  who  hold  the  Priesthood,  not  neglect 
the  duty  which  rests  upon  us,  for  remember  that  it  is  our  responsibility 
to  save  souls.  Should  we  fail,  we  forfeit  many  blessings  and  we  must 
answer  for  our  neglect. 

May  the  Lord  help  us,  that  when  the  time  comes  that  we  are  called 
to  answer  we  shall  be  unafraid,  having  done  our  best,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  and  friends,  I  am  happy  to  be  here  to 
attend  this  Conference,  and  to  listen  to  the  many  fine,  inspirational 
remarks  that  have  been  made,  and  to  the  wonderful  singing,  both  yester- 
day and  today.  These  Singing  Mothers  have  been  an  inspiration  to  all 
who  are  here.  I  wonder  how  many  have  counted  the  cost,  and  realize 
what  it  means  for  these  singers  and  for  our  brethren  from  the  mission 
fields  to  have  come  so  far.  And  the  same  might  be  said  of  this  entire  con- 
gregation, because  it  is  always  a  great  sacrifice  of  the  world's  goods, 
for  men  and  women  to  come  great  distances  to  attend  these  conferences. 
But  out  of  it  come  great  rewards  and  joyous  privileges. 

Yesterday  morning  I  thought  I  never  had  looked  upon  an  audience 
that  inspired  me  so  much  as  that  audience  did.  People  were  standing  in 
the  aisles  until  they  were  almost  filled.  When  the  congregation  stood  up 
to  sing  it  looked  like  a  solid  sea  of  faces.  I  realized  that  the  people  are 
the  leaders  of  the  Church,  to  a  very  great  extent.  The  majority  of  the 
men  and  women  who  are  here  this  afternoon  and  who  were  here  yesterday, 
are  leaders  of  the  Church.  I  was  reminded  of  the  passage  of  scrip- 
ture which  records  the  promise  the  Lord  gave  to  Abraham.   He  said : 

Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world  was;  and  among  all  these  there  were 
many  of  the  noble  and  great  ones ; 

And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the 
midst  of  them,  and  he  said :  These  I  will  make  my  rulers. 

Men  and  women  who  have  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  who  know 
what  it  means  to  have  lived  before  they  came  into  this  world,  who  have 
taken  a  part  in  the  plans  of  our  Eternal  Father,  are  brought  face  to 
face  with  the  fact  frequently  that  we  are  only  continuing  the  plan 
that  our  Eternal  Father  taught  us  even  before  the  foundation  of  this  earth 
was  laid. 

This  great  congregation  represents  leaders  from  many  places,  men 
and  women  of  responsibility,  who  have  leadership,  and  who  have  the 
authority  to  delegate  leadership.  They  are  blessed  with  initiative,  and 
they  have  in  their  hearts  a  desire  to  help,  individually,  in  the  building 
up  of  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  our  Eternal  Father.   As  a  result  of 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

experience,  men  and  women  obtain  knowledge,  a  knowledge  of  the 
mission  that  comes  to  them  in  mortality,  why  we  are  here,  from  whence 
came  we,  and  what  is  our  responsibility  while  we  are  in  mortality. 
The  Book  of  Mormon  prophet  Alma  said : 

This  is  the  day  and  the  time  for  men  to  prepare  to  meet  their  God. 

In  this  great  school  of  experience  we  find  ourselves  following  the 
teachings  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  this  Church  of  God,  here  in  this 
western  land.  Men  who  have  received  the  Priesthood,  and  all  who 
have  a  testimony  of  the  faith,  have  no  doubt  at  all  in  their  minds  concern- 
ing this  work;  they  have  a  knowledge  that  the  Lord  lives,  and  that  he 
has  revealed  himself  anew  to  men  and  women  in  mortality,  through  his 
prophets,  those  whom  he  has  selected  to  lead  Israel. 

Thus  we  see  fulfilled  the  blessings  that  our  Eternal  Father  predicted 
when  he  showed  Abraham  these  great  men  whom  he  would  call  his 
leaders.  Especially  do  we  speak  of  those  in  this  dispensation  whose 
leadership  has  given  them  much  wisdom,  whose  faith  in  God  has  given 
them  abundant  knowledge,  and  who  have  been  preserved  to  a  great 
age. 

All  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church  in  this  dispensation,  whose  lives  have 
not  been  interrupted  by  the  bullets  of  assassins,  as  were  the  Prophet 
and  his  brother  Hyrum,  have  lived  to  an  advanced  age.  They  have  been 
selected  by  the  Lord  from  among  the  rank  and  file  of  the  people,  and 
have  been  given  a  training  that  has  made  them  worthy  to  be  entrusted 
with  the  responsibility  of  his  Church. 

I  think  things  do  not  happen  by  chance.  I  think  they  happen  by 
appointment,  under  the  plans  of  God.  I  think  he  governs  and  rules,  and 
that  he  whispers  to  those  who  will  listen  to  him.  And  to  those  who 
listen  to  him,  and  respond,  he  confides  his  Holy  Spirit,  and  he  gives 
them  a  power  and  a  strength  that  is  not  of  man,  but  comes  from  Him. 

I  think  the  example  of  leadership  that  we  have  in  the  Church  today, 
in  these  perilous  times,  is  a  witness  to  all  that  the  Lord  is  at  the  helm, 
and  that  he  does  not  make  any  mistakes.  He  has  selected  a  man  whom 
he  has  trained  from  his  childhood,  President  Grant,  a  man  who,  in  his 
personal  experience,  has  witnessed  the  growth  of  this  country  and  the 
peopling  of  it  from  the  days  of  Brigham  Young.  His  great  experience 
in  life  has  given  him  a  wise  use  of  knowledge  that  comes  as  the  result  of 
experience  and  faith  and  leadership.  He  has  given  to  the  children  of 
men  in  this  dispensation  the  incentive  to  work.  He  has  followed  the 
instruction  that  came  to  him,  as  it  comes  to  all  men,  to  labor  early  and 
late  for  the  building  up  of  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God. 

The  power  of  example  is  a  marvelous  thing.  It  probably  is  stronger 
than  precept.  If  this  great  body  of  men  and  women  go  back  home 
again  and  set  an  example  that  is  in  harmony  with  the  revelations  of  the 
Lord  and  the  impressions  they  receive  from  time  to  time  it  will  have 
much  to  do  with  the  correcting  of  many  of  the  misuses  of  our  time  that 
bring  sin  and  sorrow  to  thousands  of  people. 

The  leadership  of  our  Eternal  Father  is  in  this  great  Church. 
His  authority  is  here.    I  bear  that  testimony  to  this  congregation,  and 


ELDER  WILLIAM  W.  SEEGMILLER  61 


to  all  who  may  hear  my  voice.  I  am  delighted  to  be  able  to  say  that 
I  know  with  absolute  surety  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  and  that  the 
plan  of  the  Priesthood  our  Eternal  Father  established  in  the  heavens 
above  before  this  earth  was  made,  is  here  in  action  in  mortality,  and 
that  the  men  who  stand  at  the  head  are  his  servants  in  very  deed. 

If  this  testimony  and  example  be  one  that  restrains  us  from  doing 
things  that  we  ought  not  to  do,  and  is  taken  home  again,  it  will  have  its 
effect  in  all  parts  of  the  earth  where  our  people  live.  I  pray  the  Lord 
to  bless  and  protect  every  man,  that  he  may  grow  in  the  knowledge 
of  his  Redeemer,  through  faith  in  God,  and  through  prayer  and  through 
work  and  labor,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang  the  anthem  "Holy  Redeemer." 

ELDER  WILLIAM  W.  SEEGMILLER 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

I  am  honored  in  having  the  privilege  of  representing  the  Western 
States  Mission.  We  have  only  begun  our  missionary  work,  and  have 
done  nothing  that  is  worthy  of  special  attention,  but  we  have  been 
blessed  by  the  sincere  support  and  loyalty  of  eight  thousand  Saints  in 
the  Western  States  Mission,  and  whatever  we  have  accomplished  we 
attribute  to  their  faith  and  loyalty. 

We  have  twenty-six  Singing  Mothers  in  this  congregation.  They 
traveled  by  rail,  under  agreement  with  the  railroad  that  they  should  have 
a  comfortable  place  to  ride  and  a  clean  place  to  dine,  where  they  would 
not  be  under  the  necessity  of  either  breathing  or  eating  tobacco.  This 
agreement  was  rigidly  lived  up  to,  and  we  thank  the  officials  of  the 
D.  &  R.  G.  W.  Railroad  Company  for  their  kindness  and  gentility. 

I  have  been  blessed  many  times  for  the  effort  which  I  have  made 
in  attending  this  great  Conference.  I  have  been  blessed  ten-fold  by 
the  address  that  was  made  by  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen  yesterday,  so 
replete  with  sound  doctrine  in  church  and  civil  government.  I  hope 
always  to  be  able  to  endure  sound  doctrine. 

I  believe  as  sincerely  in  the  story  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  coming  forth 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  the  history  of  Lehi  and  his  family  coming 
to  America,  as  I  believe  that  Columbus  discovered  America  in  his 
time. 

I  am  sure  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  can  be  nothing  else  than 
true,  because  it  embraces  all  truth,  wherever  found,  no  matter  from 
whence  its  source. 

We  hope  to  be  able  to  acquit  ourselves  in  honor,  that  we  may  be  able 
to  improve  upon  the  splendid  foundation  and  organization  which  our 
predecessors  have  handed  over  to  us.  If  this  can  be  our  happy  lot  we 
will  feel  that  we  have  not  struggled  and  labored  in  vain. 

I  bear  testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  I  know  every  man  and  woman  will  be  blessed  who  lives  by  its 
doctrines.  That  we  may  all  so  live,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

ELDER  CARL  F.  EYRING 


President  of  the  New  England  Mission 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  I  hope  that  I  shall  have  the 
capacity  to  carry  back  to  New  England  the  inspiration  and  the  spirit 
which  I  have  found  here  as  our  prophets  of  the  living  God  have  spoken 
the  true  word. 

I  bring  to  you  greetings  from  fifty  missionaries  and  one  thou- 
sand members  of  the  New  England  Mission. 

The  missionaries — your  sons  and  daughters — are  well.  They  are 
learning  day  by  day  how  better  to  present  the  message  of  the  restored 
Gospel  to  our  friends  and  investigators,  and  they  are  trying  to  be  the 
kind  of  person  this  Gospel  ideally  produces.  I  appreciate  their  loyalty 
and  your  support. 

Through  the  help  of  the  missionaries,  and  through  the  greater 
activity  of  local  members,  the  branches  of  the  mission  are  utilizing  more 
and  more  of  the  complete  Church  program.  When  compared  with  the 
enriched  programs  which  members  of  well  organized  and  efficient  stakes 
enjoy,  the  Saints  in  the  mission  field  are  indeed  pioneers.  It  takes  the 
sterling  qualities  of  the  pioneer  to  preside  and  lead  in  such  branches 
and  to  remain  loyal  to  such  small  and  often  socially  heterogeneous 
groups. 

As  an  important  objective,  we  are  diligently  seeking  to  produce  in 
the  mission  the  same  complete  program  enjoyed  in  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
in  order  that  the  Saints  may  have  the  opportunity  for  religious  activities, 
and  the  friends  and  investigators  may  obtain  a  true  picture  and  impression 
of  the  vitality  of  Mormonism  as  they  attend  our  Church  services.  Then, 
too,  your  sons  and  daughters  who  seek  employment  in  the  cities  within 
our  mission,  or  who  attend  the  many  universities  of  New  England,  have 
the  right,  we  think,  to  find  branches  which  are  on  a  par  with  the  wards 
they  leave  at  home.  We  fully  sense  that  such  a  goal  is  difficult  to 
achieve,  but  we  also  keenly  sense  that  if  our  Church  is  to  offer  the 
privileges  and  opportunities  so  necessary  to  keep  intelligent  and  dynamic 
youth  interested  in  religion,  we  must  do  our  best  to  offer  the  facilities 
and  blessings  of  an  efficient  organization.  These  branches  must  not  be 
too  much  below  par,  when  judged  in  terms  of  the  home  stakes,  if  we 
are  to  expect  such  members  to  continue  actively  in  church  work.  We 
are  fully  conscious  of  this  responsibility.  We  could  not  claim  success, 
even  with  great  numbers  entering  the  front  door  through  baptism,  if 
we  were  losing,  through  any  fault  of  ours,  our  precious  sons  and  daugh- 
ters through  the  back  door  of  indifference.  We  pray  that  we  may  be 
faithful  to  our  trust.  Fortunately,  the  Church  program  which  holds  our 
sons  and  daughters  also  draws  to  us  and  holds  the  finest  types  of 
investigators. 

Through  the  program  of  the  Boston  branch  and  the  facilities  of 
the  mission  home,  we  offer  to  the  students  of  the  Universities  in  Cam- 
bridge and  Boston  and  to  the  other  members  of  the  branch  an  enriched 
program  which  we  believe  is  appreciated  by  all  and  which  is  fostering 


ELDER  CARL  F.  EYRING 


63 


a  fine  loyalty  to  the  Church  and  its  teachings.  In  a  similar  manner,  but 
with  fewer  facilities,  the  other  branches  are  being  strengthened.  In 
this  connection,  we  appreciate  our  lady  missionaries.  Without  seeming 
to  interfere  with  the  local  leadership  of  the  Priesthood,  they  find  ways 
and  means  of  setting  in  operation  an  improved  church  program.  We 
always  place  the  lady  missionaries  where  there  is  local  leadership;  their 
services  are  greatly  appreciated. 

On  the  other  hand,  for  the  most  part,  the  Elders  are  placed  in  new 
territory — on  the  firing  line  of  missionary  work,  where  their  wisdom  and 
courage  is  tested  in  new  and  discouraging  situations.  As  you  receive 
letters  from  your  sons,  you  will  often  observe  how  discouragement 
changes  to  enthusiasm.  The  natives  of  New  England  are  a  cultured, 
and  conservative  people.  One  is  not  accepted  with  open  arms  on  first 
meeting,  but  must  prove  oneself  worthy  of  friendship.  If  one  can  thus 
prove  oneself,  breaking  through  what  seems  to  be  an  aloofness,  one  may 
expect  to  make  friendships  which  are  strong  and  enduring.  Not  realizing 
this  fact,  missionaries  become  discouraged  because  of  their  failure  to 
make  friends  easily  and  quickly. 

We  teach  our  missionaries  that  conversion  is  a  sacred  process  in 
which  there  is  a  very  intimate  relationship  between  God  and  the  convert. 
The  missionary  simply  leads  the  way  to  the  conversion ;  he  prepares  the 
ground  and  sows  the  Gospel  seed.  As  he  strives  to  do  his  work,  he  must 
understand  thoroughly  that  before  converts  come  investigators,  before 
investigators  come  friends^  and  before  friends  comes  friendliness.  In 
the  New  England  Mission,  then,  the  missionary  tries  by  word  and  deed 
to  prove  himself  worthy  of  bestowing  and  receiving  friendship.  Until 
the  missionary  catches  fully  the  vision  of  such  an  approach  to  his  work, 
he  often  becomes  discouraged.  But  with  this  vision,  strengthened  with 
a  few  successes,  and  as  a  tolerant  messenger  of  love  and  goodwill  he  finds 
the  joy  of  seeking  friends  and  becomes  overjoyed  in  his  work.  And  you 
and  I  detect  a  new  spirit  in  his  letters. 

Out  of  such  an  approach,  our  missionaries  have  found  friends 
among  persons  from  all  walks  of  life.  They  speak  before  schools,  his- 
torical societies,  young  people's  groups  at  churches,  fathers'  and  sons' 
banquets,  and  small  groups  in  the  homes  of  friends.  Often  they  speak 
only  of  the  settlement  of  the  West,  no  theology  being  discussed,  but  the 
ground  is  thus  prepared  for  the  sowing  of  the  seed  in  the  lives  of  those 
who  express  a  wish  to  hear  the  message  of  the  restored  Gospel. 

Out  of  such  friendly  relations,  we  find  that  the  eyes  of  thinking 
men  and  women  are  upon  us.  Are  we  in  fact  different  in  a  fine  way? 
At  the  moment,  they  do  not  seem  interested  in  the  divinity  of  the 
restoration,  but  following  the  pragmatic  test,  "By  their  fruits  ye  shall 
know  them,"  they  are  looking  for  the  results  which  we  achieve  as  a 
religious  people.  Thus,  our  missionaries  are  asked  to  describe  our  or- 
ganization, the  nature  of  our  economic  system,  our  program  for  young 
people,  our  care  of  the  human  body,  and  so  forth.  Christianity,  in  too 
many  places,  has  fallen  into  the  decadent  state  of  something  to  be  talked 
about,  but  not  to  be  lived.    "Thus,  if  your  perspective  of  Christianity 


64 

Monday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


produces  results  of  great  value,"  they  would  say,  "then  we  are  indeed 
interested  in  finding  the  power  back  of  it." 

As  the  attitude  of  intolerance  turns  to  friendly  tolerance,  we  must 
be  fully  aware  of  the  fact  that  our  acts  are  before  the  bar  of  friendly 
evaluation.  As  we  ask  our  friends  of  the  world  to  investigate  our 
religion,  we  are  asking  them  to  investigate  us  as  its  product.  Surely 
you  will  loyally  stand  behind  us — without  your  lives  lived  on  the  true 
Mormon  pattern  our  message  to  the  world  may  not  be  made  articulate. 

In  closing,  may  I  suggest  a  number  of  resolutions  which  I  offer,  first 
to  myself,  then  to  my  missionaries,  and  then  to  you  ? 

We  will  demonstrate  by  our  personal  and  community  lives  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  true  prophet  of  God  and  has  given  us  a  true  perspective 
of  the  teachings  of  our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ. 

We  will  preserve  our  uniqueness,  never  losing  our  savor  by  the 
compelling  impulse  to  become  respectable  from  the  worldly  point  of  view  ; 
but  always  adding  savor  by  the  urge  to  become  a  respectable  member  of 
the  Kingdom  of  God. 

We  will  be  a  light  set  upon  a  hill  because  we  will  be  different — 
different  in  the  sense  that  we  will  be  more  industrious  and  self-reliant, 
yet  more  truly  our  brother's  keeper ;  more  honest  in  business,  speech, 
and  thought,  yet  more  forgiving  of  those  who  steal,  lie,  or  fail  to  think 
straight;  more  healthy  in  body  and  mind  through  adherence  to  God's 
health  program,  yet  more  helpful  of  those  who  in  weakness  have  lost 
control  of  the  appetite ;  more  diligent  for  personal  perfection,  yet  more 
concerned  with  brotherly  helpfulness;  more  nearly  ideal  members  of 
the  kingdom,  yet  more  teachable  and  poor  in  spirit. 

God  grant  that  we  may  lift  high  the  light  of  true  Christian  living, 
and  that  the  world  seeing  our  good  works  will  glorify  our  Father  which 
is  in  heaven — through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

In  a  revelation  given  to  the  Church,  March  8,  1831,  the  Lord 
said  this: 

But  ye  are  commanded  in  all  things  to  ask  of  God,  who  giveth 
liberally;  and  that  which  the  Spirit  testifies  unto  you,  even  so  I  would 
that  ye  should  do  in  all  holiness  of  heart,  walking  uprightly  before  me, 
considering  the  end  of  your  salvation,  doing  all  things  with  prayer  and 
thanksgiving,  that  ye  may  not  be  seduced  by  evil  spirits,  or  doctrines 
of  devils,  or  the  commandments  of  men;  for  some  are  of  men,  and  others 
of  devils. 

Wherefore,  beware  lest  ye  are  deceived ;  and  that  ye  may  not  be 
deceived  seek  ye  earnestly  the  best  gifts,  always  remembering  for  what 
they  are  given. 

QUESTIONS  CONCERNING  PURPORTED  REVELATIONS 


It  seems  that  periodically  it  becomes  necessary  to  call  attention  to 
the  true  order  the  Lord  has  given  us  in  regard  to  revelation.  During 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  65 

the  past  three  or  four  months  I  have  received  a  number  of  communica- 
tions, coming  from  various  parts  of  the  Church,  asking  if  certain 
purported  revelations  or  dreams  or  purported  visions  are  reliable  and 
have  the  endorsement  of  the  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

There  have  been  individuals,  from  time  to  time,  who  have  been 
invited  to  go  into  the  wards,  in  the  sacrament  meetings,  Priesthood 
classes,  Sunday  Schools  and  Mutual  Improvement  organizations,  and 
at  times,  for  their  special  benefit,  cottage  meetings  have  been  held  where 
they  might  come  and  relate  remarkable  visions  or  revelations  claimed 
by  these  individuals  to  have  been  given  to  them.   All  this  is  wrong. 

KEY  REVEALED  TO  DETERMINE  TRUE  REVELATION 

The  Lord  has  given  us,  by  revelation,  a  key  that  should  be  our  guide 
in  matters  of  this  kind.  In  another  revelation  that  was  given  to  the 
Church  as  early  as  February  in  the  year  1831,  the  Lord  said  this : 

But  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  none  else  shall  he  appointed 
unto  this  gift  except  it  be  through  him;  [speaking  of  the  gift  of  revela- 
tion given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith]  for  if  it  be  taken  from  him  he 
shall  not  have  power  except  to  appoint  another  in  his  stead.  ■ 

And  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  you,  that  ye  receive  not  the  teachings 
of  any  that  shall  come  before  you  as  revelations  or  commandments ; 

And  this  I  give  unto  you  that  you  may  not  be  deceived,  that  you  may 
know  they  are  not  of  me. 

REVELATIONS  GIVEN  IN  ACCORDANCE  WITH  LAW 

The  Lord  has  promised  us  that  he  would  give  us  revelation  and  com- 
mandments when  necessary,  and  that  is  recorded  in  another  of  the 
revelations  also  given  in  the  same  year,  1831,  on  the  seventh  day  of 
August.  And  in  that  revelation  the  Lord  says,  speaking  of  those  who 
should  come  to  Zion : 

And  they  shall  also  be  crowned  with  blessings  from  above,  yea,  and 
with  commandments  not  a  few,  and  with  revelations  in  their  time — they 
that  are  faithful  and  diligent  before  me. 

Now,  the  Lord  will  give  revelations  to  this  Church,  and  he  will 
give  commandments  to  this  Church  from  time  to  time,  and  as  it  is 
necessary,  but  always  in  accordance  with  his  own  law;  and  we  do  not 
have  to  run  around  and  invite  individuals  who  are  without  authority  to 
relate  unto  us  purported  visions,  or  revelations  or  commandments,  for 
the  guidance  of  this  people. 

Everything  in  the  Church  is  done  in  order.  Everything  pertaining 
to  the  kingdom  of  God  is  in  order,  because  it  is  obedient  to  law. 

JOSEPH  SMITHES  COMMENTS  ON  REVELATION 

In  1833  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gave  this  counsel  to  the  Church : 

I  will  inform  you  that  it  is  contrary  to  the  economy  of  God  for  any 
member  of  the  Church,  or  any  one,  to  receive  instruction  for  those  in 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

authority  higher  than  themselves.  Therefore  you  will  see  the  impropriety 
of  giving  heed  to  them.  But  if  any  person  have  a  vision  or  a  visitation 
from  a  heavenly  messenger,  it  must  be  for  his  own  benefit  and  instruction, 
for  the  fundamental  principles,  government  and  doctrines  of  the  Church 
are  vested  in  the  keys  of  the  kingdom. 

Then  on  another  occasion  the  Prophet  gave  this  other  counsel,  as 
it  occurs  in  the  History  of  the  Church : 

President  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  addressed  the  assembly  and  said: 

The  Melchizedek  High  Priesthood  was  no  other  than  the  Priesthood 
of  the  Son  of  God;  that  there  are  certain  ordinances  which  belong  to  the 
Priesthood,  from  which  flow  certain  results ;  and  the  Presidents  or 
Presidency  are  over  the  Church ;  and  revelations  of  the  mind  and  will  of 
God  to  the  Church  are  to  come  through  the  Presidency.  This  is  the 
order  of  heaven,  and  the  power  and  privilege  of  this  Priesthood.  It  is 
also  the  privilege  of  any  officer  in  this  Church  to  obtain  revelations  so 
far  as  relates  to  his  particular  calling  and  duty  in  the  Church.  All  are 
bound  by  the  principles  of  virtue  and  happiness,  but  one  great  privilege 
of  the  Priesthood  is  to  obtain  revelations1  of  the  mind  and  will  of  God. 
It  is  also  the  privilege  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  to  reprove,  rebuke, 
and  admonish,  as  well  as  to  receive  revelation.  If  the  Church  knew  all 
the  commandments,  one-half  they  would  condemn  through  prejudice 
and  ignorance. 

A  High  Priest  is  a  member  of  the  same  Melchizedek  Priesthood  with 
the  Presidency,  but  not  of  the  same  power  or  authority  in  the  Church. 
The  Seventies  are  also  members  of  the  same  Priesthood,  are  a  sort  of 
traveling  council  or  Priesthood,  and  may  preside  over  a  church  or 
churches,  until  a  High  Priest  can  be  had.  The  Seventies  are  to  be  taken 
from  the  quorum  of  Elders,  and  are  not  to  be  High  Priests.  They  are 
subject  to  the  direction  and  dictation  of  the  Twelve,  who  have  the  keys  of 
the  ministry.  All  are  to  preach  the  Gospel,  by  the  power  and  influence 
of  the  Holy  Ghost ;  and  no  man  can  preach  the  Gospel  without  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

Now,  these  passages,  these  statements  from  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  I  have  presented  to  you  so  that  you  may  know  how  to  be  gov- 
erned in  regard  to  matters  of  this  kind.  If  a  man  comes  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  professing  to  have  received  a  vision  or  a  revelation 
or  a  remarkable  dream,  and  the  Lord  has  given  him  such,  he  should 
keep  it  to  himself.  It  is  all  out  of  order,  in  this  Church,  for  somebody 
to  invite  him  into  a  sacrament  service  to  relate  that  to  the  Church,  because 
the  Lord  will  give  his  revelations  in  the  proper  way,  to  the  one  who  is 
appointed  to  receive  and  dispense  the  word  of  God  to  the  members  of 
the  Church. 

SPURIOUS  REVELATIONS 

In  the  year  1918,  at  the  October  Conference,  the  last  Conference 
at  which  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  spoke,  I  called  attention  to  matters 
of  this  kind,  and  after  I  was  through  he  arose  and  endorsed  my  remarks 
by  saying  what  I  am  going  to  read  to  you  now : 

Again  I  feel  to  say  that  it  is  an  opportunity  for  me  to  say  a  few  words. 
This  wonderful,  mysterious  revelation  that  I  have  been  said  to  have 
received  a  great  many  years  ago,  was  given  in  French,  and  I  never  knew 
but  two  or  three  words  of  French  in  my  life;  consequently  I  could  not 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


67 


have  been  the  originator  of  that  revelation.  I  want  you  to  understand 
that  I  have  denied  it,  I  suppose,  a  hundred  times,  when  I  have  been 
inquired  of  about  it.  It  was  gotten  up  by  some  mysterious  person  who 
undertook  to  create  a  sensation  and  lay  the  responsibility  upon  me.  I 
am  not  guilty. 

When  the  Lord  reveals  something  to  me  I  will  consider  the  matter 
with  my  brethren,  and  when  it  becomes  proper  I  will  let  it  be  known  to 
the  people,  and  not  otherwise. 

The  ridiculous  story  about  the  red  horse,  and  the  black  horse,  and 
the  white  horse,  and  a  lot  of  trash  that  has  been  circulated  about  and 
printed  and  sent  around  as  a  great  revelation  given  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  is  a  matter  that  was  gotten  up,  I  understand,  some  ten  years  after 
the  death  of  the  Prophet,  by  two  of  our  brethren  who  put  together  some 
broken  sentences  from  the  Prophet  that  they  had  heard  him  utter  from 
time  to  time,  and  formulated  this  so-called  revelation  out  of  it.  It  was 
never  spoken  by  the  Prophet  in  the  manner  in  which  they  have  it  put 
forth.    It  is  simply  false;  that  is  all  there  is  to  it. 

KNOW  THE  TRUTH 

Now,  these  stories  of  revelation,  that  are  being  circulated  around, 
are  of  no  consequence,  except  for  rumor  and  silly  talk  by  persons  who 
have  no  authority.  The  fact  of  the  matter  is  simply  this :  No  man  can 
enter  into  God's  rest  until  he  will  absorb  the  truth,  in  so  far  that  all 
error,  all  falsehood,  all  misunderstanding  and  misstatement  he  will  be 
able  to  sift  thoroughly  and  dissolve,  and  know  that  it  is  error,  and  not 
truth. 

When  you  know  God's  truth,  when  you  enter  into  God's  rest,  you 
will  not  be  hunting  after  revelations  from  Tom,  Dick  and  Harry  all 
over  the  world.  You  will  not  be  following  the  will-o'-the-wisp  of  the 
vagaries  of  men  and  women  who  advance  nonsense  and  their  own  ideas. 
When  you  know  the  truth  you  will  abide  in  the  truth,  and  the  truth  will 
make  you  free.  It  is  only  the  truth  that  will  free  you  from  the  errors 
of  men  and  from  the  falsehoods  and  misrepresentations  of  the  evil  one, 
who  lays  in  wait  to  deceive  and  to  mislead  the  people  of  God  from  the 
paths  of  righteousness  and  truth. 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

The  burning  questions  of  good  and  evil  constitute  the  most  important 
problem  that  has  ever  confronted  the  children  of  men.  There  is  no 
end  to  the  variations  in  which  this  problem  presents  itself.  There  are 
so  many  manifestations  of  it  that  one  is  almost  lost  in  a  labyrinth  of 
confusion. 

These  questions  are  often  asked:  What  is  good  and  what  is  evil? 
What  is  sin?  What  is  the  cause  of  sin,  and  what  is  its  cure?  Vice,  or 
gross  immorality !  What  is  vice  ?  Listen  to  the  poet : 

Vice  is  a  monster  of  so  frightful  mien 
As,  to  be  hated,  needs  but  to  be  seen; 
Yet  seen  too  oft,  familiar  with  her  face, 
We  first  endure,  then  pity,  then  embrace. 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

Many  varied  opinions  are  given  in  answer  to  these  questions,  and 
it  is  astonishing  to  see  how  much  misinformation  and  wrong  conceptions 
are  entertained  by  those  who  attempt  to  answer.  Even  those  who  are 
trying  to  solve  the  problem  of  vice  and  how  to  deal  with  it  are  greatly 
confused  in  regard  to  the  real  causes  that  lie  under  all  of  these  evil 
manifestations. 

We  hear  remarks  like  this,  "that  it  is  highly  improbable  that  gam- 
bling, alcoholism,  prostitution,  drug  addiction  and  other  forms  of  vice 
can  ever  be  stamped  out."  Among  the  reasons  given  the  first  is  "the 
unchanging  nature  of  human  appetites"  and  that  "as  long  as  that  shall 
remain  there  will  be  vice." 

It  is  rather  disheartening  to  hear  such  things  as  this,  especially  when 
they  further  say  that  there  will  probably  be  no  change — no  appreciable 
change — in  the  next  few  millennia,  or  next  few  thousand  years. 

How  well  do  I  remember  my  father's  family  prayer  and  the  im- 
pressions made  upon  me  in  my  childhood  of  the  impending  judgments 
which  were  about  to  be  poured  out  upon  the  wicked  and  ungodly.  Let 
me  repeat  a  part  of  it  as  I  recall  it  to  my  memory : 

Remember  the  young  and  rising  generation.  May  they  not  wander 
into  by  and  forbidden  paths ;  but  may  they  walk  in  that  straight  and  narrow 
way  that  leadeth  unto  life  eternal.  Hold  them,  as  in  the  hollow  of  thy 
hand,  that  no  harm  or  evil  may  befall  them.  Frustrate  the  plans  and 
machinations  of  the  evil  and  ungodly ;  may  they  fail  in  all  their  evil  under- 
takings ;  may  they  be  caught  in  their  own  snares,  and  fall  into  their  own 
pits,  which  they  set  and  dig  at  the  feet  of  thy  people.  Hasten  the  day 
when  sin  and  iniquity  shall  be  banished  from  the  face  of  the  earth,  and 
righteousness  shall  predominate  and  cover  the  earth,  even  as  the  waters 
cover  the  mighty  deep. 

Well,  that  day  is  not  yet  come ;  but  I  am  still  looking  for  it  and 
feel  now  as  I  did  then  that  it  is  at  our  very  doors  and  still  entertain 
the  thought  that  I  may  yet  live  to  see  it  for  I  am  still  quite  young — only 
four  score  years  and  three.  But,  whether  I  live  or  not  I  feel  quite  sure 
we  shall  not  have  to  wait  for  another  three  or  four  thousand  years  in 
order  to  witness  that  glorious  day  when  Christ  shall  appear  in  the  clouds 
of  glory — when  this  earth  shall  be  renewed  and  receive  its  paradisaical 
glory,  and  inaugurate  the  great  millennial  reign  of  peace — when  sin  and 
iniquity  shall  be  banished  from  the  earth,  and  truth  and  righteousness 
shall  prevail  and  Satan  shall  be  bound — that  old  serpent,  called  the  devil 
who,  with  his  angels,  was  cast  out  of  heaven  into  the  earth  and  has 
wrought  great  havoc  among  the  children  of  men,  but  now  shall  be  bound, 
and  sin  shall  be  no  more. 

What  absurd  misconceptions  men  have  of  sin !  They  blame  it  on 
human  nature.  When  they  make  such  statements  as  that,  it  is  a  libel 
against  Deity.  Human  nature  is  not  evil.  Man  has  been  fashioned  and 
formed  in  the  image  of  God,  not  only  in  his  physical  image,  but  in  all 
of  his  divine  attributes.  There  are  no  evil  ones.  Man  possesses  every 
one  of  them ;  as  a  child  of  God  he  has  inherited  them  from  his  divine 
parents.   We  are  God-like — not  sensual  and  devilish — by  nature. 

This  is  fully  explained  in  Section  20,  verses  18,  19  and  20  of  the 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


69 


Doctrine  and  Covenants,  where  it  is  stated  that  in  the  beginning  God 
gave  holy  commandments  unto  men,  but  because  they  transgressed  those 
holy  commandments  they  have  become  sensual  and  devilish. 

It  is  true  that  men  have  become  devilish  and  sensual  through  trans- 
gression, but  they  are  not  by  nature  so  ;  that  is  quite  a  different  matter. 
By  nature  they  are  divine,  formed  and  fashioned  in  the  image  of  God, 
inheriting  from  him  all  of  his  divine  attributes.  God  possesses  those 
attributes  fully  developed — in  their  perfect  form ; — mankind,  the  children 
of  God,  possess  them  in  embryo  and  in  very  imperfect  form,  but  with 
infinite  potentialities  for  development,  and  in  the  course  of  our  eternal 
progress  there  is  opportunity  that  we  may  perfect  them  and  become 
indeed  like  God — which  is  the  divine  purpose  in  our  being  here  on  earth. 
Then  do  not  blame  it  upon  human  nature,  for  our  appetites,  our  passions, 
and  natural  urges  are  divine  and  are  all  designed  for  our  happiness  and 
well-being,  and  only  through  transgression  do  they  become  evil — when 
perverted,  distorted  or  corrupted. 

In  considering  the  problem  of  sin,  if  we  are  to  have  proper  under- 
standing there  are  some  things  that  must  be  understood  which  are 
frequently  lost  sight  of  by  those  who  undertake  to  discuss  this  vital  and 
ever  present  subject.    Let  me  explain : 

While  it  is  true  that  these  attributes  may  be  developed  to  their 
divine  perfection,  it  is  also  true  that  they  may  be  perverted,  distorted 
and  counterfeited  until  they  become  vices,  all  depending  upon  the 
individual  and  his  choice,  in  the  exercise  of  his  free  agency — whether  he 
chooses  the  good  or  the  evil.  In  this  conflict  there  are  two  influences 
that  are  brought  to  bear  upon  him.  On  the  one  hand  "the  spirit  of 
Christ  is  given  to  every  man  that  he  may  know  good  from  evil."  (Book  of 
Mormon,  Moroni  7:16.)  This  spirit  is  ever  striving  to  lead  us  to 
God.  And,  on  the  other  hand  "that  which  is  evil  cometh  from  the  devil, 
for  the  devil  is  an  enemy  unto  God  and  fighteth  against  him  continually, 
and  inviteth  and  enticeth  to  sin  and  to  do  that  which  is  evil  continually." 
(Moroni  7:12)  Thus,  it  will  be  seen  that  God  is  ever  present  to  guard 
and  protect  us  and  deliver  us  from  all  evil.  He  is  unchangeable  for 
he  has  said :  "I  am  the  Lord,  I  change  not."  And  then,  too,  Satan,  with 
unrelenting  zeal  is  endeavoring  to  carry  out  his  evil  purposes  in  leading 
men  away  from  God  and  hence  unto  darkness  and  the  bondage  of  sin, 
and  "to  do  that  which  is  evil  continually."  He  shows  no  signs  of 
reformation.  The  devil  is  absolutely  incorrigible,  and  this  is  what  the 
criminologists  sometimes  overlook  and  blame  to  "the  unchanging  nature 
of  human  appetites." 

Are  God's  purposes  failing  simply  because  sin  and  iniquity  continue 
to  exist  among  us  ?  Nay,  not  so.  This  is  an  individual  fight  against  sin. 
The  generations  of  men  come  and  go  and  each  generation  and  each  indi- 
vidual member  is  in  the  position  where  he  must  act  for  himself  and  choose 
between  good  and  evil.  Some  choose  the  good  and  some  choose  the  evil. 
Some  choose  to  walk  in  the  "light"  and  others  "love  darkness  rather 
than  light  because  their  deeds  are  evil" — and  all  shall  be  judged  according 
to  the  deeds  done  in  the  body. 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

How  could  we  be  judged  unless  we  had  a  knowledge  of  good  and 
evil?  If  we  had  no  knowledge  of  good  and  evil  we  could  commit  no 
sin.  Without  free  agency  we  could  commit  no  sin.  The  spirit  of 
Christ  is  striving  with  the  children  of  men  always.  That  is  the  light 
of  Christ  that  has  been  given  to  every  man.  "That  is  the  true  light 
that  enlighteneth  every  man  that  cometh  into  the  world."  "If  we  walk 
in  the  light,"  we  are  told,  "even  as  he  is  in  the  light,  then  have  we 
fellowship,  one  with  another,  and  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ  cleanseth 
us  from  all  sin." 

But,  the  devil  came  also,  and  his  power  and  influence  is  manifest 
among  us  and  we  see  how  he  has  made  havoc  with  many;  but  always 
because  they  would  not  hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the  Lord.  We  meet 
our  adversary  every  day  of  our  lives.  We  may  not  see  him,  nor  his 
angels,  for  they  kept  not  their  first  estate  and  have  no  bodies  of  flesh  and 
bones.  We  may  not  see  them  with  our  natural  eyes,  but  they  are  here. 
We  feel  their  presence,  and  we  know  that  we  are  in  the  midst  of  them. 

All  evil  comes  from  that  source.  Every  temptation  to  do  wrong, 
every  allurement  to  sin,  every  departure  from  the  will  of  God  is  in- 
spired by  those  evil  spirits  who  are  abroad  in  the  world,  seeking  to  draw 
men  and  women  away  from  God.  To  hearken  to  the  devil  and  his 
followers  is  sin.  To  draw  nigh  unto  God  is  virtue.  Drawing  nigh  to 
God  is  faith.  Resisting  the  devil  is  repentance.  Therefore:  "Resist 
the  devil  and  he  will  flee  from  you  ;  draw  nigh  unto  God  and  he  will  draw 
nigh  to  you."  These  two  principles  then — faith  and  repentance — should 
be  the  governing  principles  of  all  human  conduct  whether  in  the  Church 
or  out  of  it. 

There  is  no  virtue  in  doing  good  under  compulsion  and  likewise 
there  is  no  vice  in  doing  evil  under  compulsion.  And,  furthermore, 
if  we  had  no  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  sin  would  be  impossible. 
Where  there  is  no  law  there  can  be  no  condemnation.  We  are  only 
responsible  for  that  which  we  do  in  the  exercise  of  our  free  agency,  and 
according  to  the  light — or  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  which  has  been 
given  us. 

For  this  reason  God  has  endowed  us  with  these  divine  attributes 
and  our  problem  is  to  develop  these  and  all  the  others  through  obedience 
to  the  will  of  God  and  to  reject  the  devil's  substitutes  or  counterfeits. 

Let  me  enumerate  a  few  of  these  divine  attributes  which  our 
Heavenly  Father  has  transmitted  to  his  sons  and  daughters  dwelling 
upon  the  earth  and  to  indicate  how  they  may  become  vices  under  di- 
abolical influences.    Every  virtue  has  its  kindred  vice.    For  example: 

1.  Economy  becomes  stinginess.  Some  men  think  they  are  econom- 
ical when,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  they  are  only  stingy.  How  I  hate  a  stingy 
man. 

2.  Self  Esteem  becomes  egotism,  a  miserable  substitute  for  a  divine 
attribute. 

3.  Pride  becomes  vanity.  I  think  it  must  be  vanity  "that  goeth 
before  the  fall." 

4.  Fear  is  a  divine  attribute  and  must  not  be  confused  with  coward- 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


71 


ice.  "Be  not  afraid  of  the  face  of  man,  but  fear  God  and  keep  his 
commandments."  "The  fear  of  the  Lord  is  the  beginning  of  wisdom." 
Even  the  Lord  would  fear  to  do  evil. 

5.  Acquisitiveness,  or  thrift — the  faculty  that  enables  one  to  acquire 
wealth ;  but  when  perverted  becomes  greed  and  avarice,  these  soul  destroy- 
ing vices — the  love  of  money  which  we  are  told  is  the  root  of  all  evil.  What 
will  not  men  do  when  this  divine  attribute  is  perverted  into  greed  and 
avarice — into  the  "love  of  money"?  They  will  lie  for  it;  they  will  cheat 
and  misrepresent  for  it ;  they  will  steal  for  it ;  they  will  kill  for  it ;  and 
thus  it  becomes  the  cause  of  all  our  strife  and  contention,  our  wars, 
and  destroys  the  peace  and  happiness  of  mankind. 

6.  Faith,  a  sublime  and  saving  attribute  of  Deity.  A  minister,  not 
orthodox  however,  once  said  to  me :  "There  is  one  thing  you  have  in  your 
Church  which  I  don't  like."  "And  what  is  that?"  I  inquired.  "That  is 
what  you  call  faith."  "What's  the  matter  with  faith?"  again  I  inquired. 
"Just  think,"  he  said,  "to  believe  everything  you  hear."  "But  sir,  you 
have  mistaken  faith  for  credulity.  The  Lord  does  not  want  us  to  believe 
everything  we  hear."  What  does  the  Lord  want  us  to  believe?  "Believe 
on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  thou  shalt  be  saved." 

7.  Love — This  is  the  greatest  of  all  the  divine  attributes — sometimes 
it  is  called  Charity — which  is  the  pure  love  of  Christ.  The  biggest 
thing  in  all  the  world.  Even  this,  under  diabolical  influences  becomes 
lust — the  very  embodiment  of  everything  that  is  vile — the  devil's  counter- 
feit. The  greater,  the  holier,  purer  and  nobler  the  divine  attribute  may 
be — all  the  more  contemptible,  vile  and  degrading  is  the  devil's  counter- 
feit. 

Are  there  any  virtues  that  may  not  be  perverted  or  distorted?  Any 
divine  attributes  that  may  not  be  corrupted?  Any  good  thing  whatever 
that  some  devil  does  not  try  to  counterfeit? 

Our  government  issues  currency  in  various  denominations — one, 
two  and  five  dollar  bills,  ten,  twenty,  fifty  and  one  hundred  dollar  bills 
(at  least  so  I've  heard),  and  these  are  legal  tender  all  over  our  broad 
land,  and  easily  exchanged  in  foreign  lands,  but  some  devil  will  make 
counterfeits  and  palm  them  off  for  genuine.  Our  government  also 
issues  gold  and  silver  coins  in  various  denominations,  but  some  devil 
will  take  a  baser  metal  and  gild  it  over  with  gold  and  palm  it  off  for 
genuine,  but  they  are  all  counterfeits.  Then  do  not  despise  the  pure 
gold  of  religion  because  the  devil  makes  a  counterfeit  of  it  in  hypocrisy. 
Beware  of  counterfeits,  there  are  many,  many  false  religions.  There 
is  only  one  that  is  genuine,  namely,  the  religion  of  our  Lord,  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  purity  as  restored  to  the  earth  in  the  day  and  age 
in  which  we  live,  through  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet. 

The  trouble  with  many  men  is  that  they  resist  God  and  draw  nigh 
unto  the  devil.  Even  many  men  of  science  say  "We  cannot  admit  God 
into  our  laboratories."  Why  not?  Let  me  say  to  them:  "When  you 
close  the  front  door,  against  God,  automatically  you  open  the  back  door 
and  let  the  devil  in." 

Let  no  man  think  that  I  disparage  the  scientists.    Nothing  could 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  4  Second  Day 

be  farther  from  the  truth.  Nor  do  I  underestimate  the  wonderful 
achievements  they  have  rendered  and  are  now  rendering  in  service  to 
humanity.  On  the  contrary — I  glory  in  their  achievements  in  bringing 
truth  to  light,  and  sincerely  wish  that  success  may  crown  their  efforts 
even  though  I  may  discount  some  of  their  vague  theories. 

Inasmuch  as  we  are  God's  children,  possessing  his  divine  attributes, 
there  is  real  meaning  in  the  Savior's  admonition :  "Be  ye  therefore 
perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect." 

Let  me  now  revert  to  the  previous  question,  propounded  at  the 
beginning  of  my  remarks.  What  is  sin  ?  What  is  its  cause  and  what 
is  its  cure? 

In  what  I  have  said  I  have  endeavored  to  make  answer  to  these 
questions. 

All  this,  however,  suggests  another  question:  What  is  the  purpose 
of  it  all  and  why  does  the  Lord  permit  this  evil  opposition?  For  a  direct 
answer  to  this  question,  let  me  cite  to  you  the  following : 

And  to  bring  about  his  eternal  purposes  in  the  end  of  man,  after  he 
had  created  our  first  parents,  and  the  beasts  of  the  field  and  the  fowls  of 
the  air,  and  in  fine,  all  things  which  are  created,  it  must  needs  be  that 
there  was  an  opposition;  even  the  forbidden  fruit  in  opposition  to  the  tree 
of  life ;  the  one.  being  sweet  and  the  other  bitter. 

Wherefore,  the  Lord  God  gave  unto  man  that  he  should  act  for  him- 
self. Wherefore,  man  could  not  act  for  himself  save  it  should  be  that 
he  was  enticed  by  the  one  or  the  other.  (2nd  Nephi  2:15,  16.) 

We  have  also  seen  the  two  opposing  influences,  the  one  the  spirit 
of  Christ  leading  and  enticing  us  to  partake  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of 
life,  thus  leading  us  to  God;  and  the  other,  the  devil  enticing  men  to 
partake  of  the  forbidden  fruit,  thus  leading  us  away  from  God  and 
to  our  destruction. 

The  divine  purpose,  therefore,  is  made  plain :  Our  Heavenly  Father 
like  any  natural  father  desires  to  bring  us  back  into  his  presence,  to  dwell 
with  him  in  his  celestial  kingdom  throughout  the  endless  ages  of 
Eternity;  but  before  this  can  be  brought  about  we  must  be  sanctified 
from  all  unrighteousness  that  we  may  be  prepared  for  celestial  glory. 
(See  D.  and  C,  Sec.  88:18)  No  unclean  thing  can  enter  there. 
Obedience  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  necessary  preparation, 
for  in  this  provision  is  made  for  the  remission  of  all  our  sins,  "even 
though  they  be  as  scarlet,  yet  shall  we  be  made  as  white  as  wool,"  washed 
clean  in  the  blood  of  the  Lamb  of  God.  Now,  therefore,  here  is  the 
cure,  a  panacea  for  every  ill:  Believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  whom 
God  hath  sent  to  atone  for  all  our  sins.  Repent,  for  "except  ye  repent 
ye  shall  all  likewise  perish."  And  be  baptized  by  immersion  for  the 
remission  of  your  sins  by  one  who  is  duly  commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  perform  that  sacred  ordinance,  and  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands  by  a  duly  authorized  servant  of  God. 

This  is  God's  plan — it  is  the  only  way.  Let  all  men  give  heed  and 
may  the  Lord  add  his  blessing  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 


73 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

It  can  never  become  commonplace  and  unimportant  to  speak  in  this 
pulpit.  This  is  indeed  a  great  responsibility.  For  two  years  I  have  been 
doing  missionary  work  in  the  Northern  States  Mission.  Distance  seems 
to  minimize  your  short-comings  and  imperfections  and  to  magnify  your 
virtues  and  your  achievements.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  deep  in  my  soul 
I  have  great  pride  in  the  things  you  are  doing  and  have  done. 

During  this  Conference  I  have  listened  with  pride  and  satisfaction  to 
the  eloquent  discourses  on  the  philisophy  and  doctrines  underlying  our 
great  religion.  This  stimulates  one's  faith  and  inspires  him,  but  these 
splendid  doctrines  are  not  accepted  by  those  not  of  our  faith ;  they  might 
argue  about  them,  but  there  is  one  argument  that  stands  forever  un- 
answered and  unanswerable — the  argument  of  righteous  behavior.  If 
the  President  of  this  Church  were  to  ask  every  man  and  woman  under 
the  sound  of  my  voice,  who  are  free  from  the  use  of  tobacco  to  arise, 
there  would  be  very  few  who  would  remain  on  their  seats.  If  he  were 
to  ask  those  who  are  not  addicted  to  the  use  of  strong  drink  in  any 
form  to  manifest  it  by  arising,  most  of  those  who  are  here  would  arise. 
If  he  were  to  ask  those  who  cherish  their  virtue  as  they  do  the  "apple 
of  their  eye"  to  stand  up,  the  response  would  be  universal.  Somehow 
the  world  appreciates  a  religion  that  carries  over,  that  registers  in  the 
lives  of  its  adherents. 

As  years  and  experience  come  to  me  there  filters  into  my  soul  the 
settled  conviction  that  Mormonism  has  something  that  the  world 
needs,  that  it  cannot  succeed  without.  I  do  not  think  the  world  will  ever 
emerge  from  the  difficulties  which  seem  to  engulf  it  until  it  discovers 
what  that  something  is  and  lives  by  it. 

The  state  of  Illinois  is  a  part  of  my  mission.  Since  childhood  I  have 
heard  the  story  of  Nauvoo,  but  of  recent  years  I  have  had  frequent 
opportunity  to  walk  the  quiet  streets  of  that  little  village  and  to  contrast 
it  with  what  it  was  when  the  Saints  lived  there.  There  is  something 
missing  now,  something  is  gone.  One  cannot  look  across  the  century 
and  see  what  a  small  group  of  our  people,  stripped  of  their  earthly 
possessions — without  borrowed  money  or  material  assistance  from  the 
state  or  nation,  were  able  to  do  with  nothing  but  their  strong  hands  and 
their  faith  in  their  leader  and  in  their  Creator,  without  feeling  in  his 
soul  that  the  world  ought  to  learn  the  lesson  which  they  practiced.  When 
they  reached  Illinois  they  did  not  spend  their  days  mourning  over  their 
persecutions  in  Missouri,  bitter  as  they  were,  but  they  girded  their 
loins,  forgot  their  troubles  and  compelled  the  uncultivated  earth  to  yield 
them  a  subsistence. 

The  people  of  this  generation  should  learn  the  lessons  demonstrated 
in  our  history,  the  lesson  of  self-reliance,  of  faith  in  themselves,  and  in 
the  Almighty.  Through  our  present  efforts  to  perpetuate  this  spirit  of 
self-reliance  we  have  won  a  place  in  public  favor  never  before  enjoyed 
by  us.   We  do  not  appreciate  the  prominence  that  we  have  won  through 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6 


Third  Day 


this  effort.  The  world  is  coming  to  see  us — to  see  how  we  do  it.  To 
use  the  common  phrase — "We  are  on  the  spot"  and  every  man  who  has 
a  modicum  of  patriotism  in  his  blood,  who  loves  the  Gospel  and  loves  his 
people  has  an  opportunity  now  to  demonstrate  it — not  by  facing  flashing 
bayonets  or  enduring  great  physical  hardships,  but  by  the  simple  process 
of  living  his  religion.  If  we  have  faith  enough  to  do  this  we  are  destined 
to  become  the  pride  and  glory  of  the  earth. 

I  know  that  Mormonism  is  true.  I  have  known  it  all  my  life,  but 
I  never  before  saw  so  clearly  its  grandeur  and  its  beauty.  God  bless 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  may  he  help  us  all  to  preach  the 
Gospel  abroad  by  living  it  at  home.  We  are  moving  forward  and  with 
the  help  of  our  Heavenly  Father  we  will  win.  May  this  be  our  happy 
lot,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus — Amen. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang  "Inflammatus,"  Margaret  Stewart  Hew- 
lett, soloist. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Franklin  L.  West,  Commissioner  of  Elucation. 
Conference  adjourned  until  Wednesday,  April  6,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  fifth  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Wednesday  morning, 
April  6,  at  10  o'clock,  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  musical  exercises  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  were  rend- 
ered by  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  congregation  and  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  For  a  Prophet." 

Elder  Wayland  R.  Wightman,  President  of  the  Nebo  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

An  anthem,  "He  Watching  Over  Israel"  (Elijah),  was  sung  by  the 
Choir. 

ANNUAL  CHURCH  REPORT 

At  the  request  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  Elder  Joseph  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  the  financial  and  statistical  report  of  the 
Church  for  the  year  1937,  also  report  of  changes  in  Church  officers, 
stake,  ward  and  branch  organizations  since  last  October  Conference,  as 
follows  : 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 
The  expenditures  by  the  Church  for  the  year  1937 : 


Stake  and  Ward  Purposes : 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  stakes  and 


ANNUAL  CHURCH  REPORT  75 

wards  for  the  construction  of  ward  and  stake  meeting- 
houses  $1,025,082.77 

For  ward  maintenance  expenses   808,287.28 

For  stake  maintenance  expenses    255,222.30 

$2,088,592.35 

Hospitals : 

Expended  for  the  erection  and  improvement  of  hospital 

buildings  (included  in  Church  Welfare  Program)  $  126,204.00 

Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  the  Church  school  system  $  904,305.81 
Temples : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  temples  $  451,043.33 

Relief  Assistance : 

For  direct  aid  in  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other 
charitable  purposes,  including  hospital  treatment. 
(From  tithing  funds  only.  Included  in  Church  Wel- 
fare Program}   $  298,807.55 

Missionary  Work: 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions,  and 
for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  build- 
ings in  the  missions   $  975,105.26 


Total  $4,844,058.30 

which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  other  Church 
funds  and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in-Trust  to  the 
Saints  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  stakes 
and  wards,  for  hospital  buildings,  for  the  maintenance 
and  operation  of  Church  schools  and  temples,  for  chari- 
ties and  mission  activities. 

Fast  Offering  Information: 

1937  1936  Increase  Pet. 

Fast  offerings  paid  in 

wards   $296,443.67  $259,125.46  $37,318.21  14.4% 

Fast  offerings  paid  in 

missions                     34,441.48  31,192.15  3,249.33  10.4% 


Total  fast  offerings  $330,885.15  $290,317.61  $40,567.54  13.9% 
Number  who  paid  fast 

offerings  in  wards..  151,056  134,416  16,640  12.4% 
Number  who  paid  fast 

offerings  in  missions       21,654  19,370  2,284  11.8% 


Total  who  paid  fast 

offerings    172,710         153,786         18,924  12.3% 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Average  fast  offerings 

per  capita  in  wards..  55.4c  48.9c  6.5c 

Wards  showing  highest  per  capita  fast  offerings : 

Manhattan  Ward,  New  York  Stake   $  2.20 

San  Francisco  Ward,  San  Francisco  Stake   1.78 

Gilmer  Park  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake    1.75 

Rosette  Ward,  Curlew  Stake   1.70 

102  wards  (9.2%  of  wards  in  the  Church)  paid  $1.00  or 
more  per  capita. 

Missions  snowing  highest  per  capita  fast  offerings : 

Czechoslovakia  $  1.12 

Palestine-Syrian    .66 

Swiss-German    .60 

Eastern  States    .55 

German-Austrian    .55 

Summary — Erection  and  Improvement  of  Church  Buildings — 1937 : 
Appropriated  for  ward  and  stake  buildings,  seminaries  and 

institutes  $1,195,319.63 

Amount  raised  locally  (40%  )    679,837.66 

Appropriated  for  hospital  buildings   126,204.00 

Paid  by  hospitals  toward  erection  of  buildings   82,525.78 

Improvements  in  temples    56,874.00 

Expended  for  mission  buildings  and  real  estate   284,141.09 


Total   $2,424,902.16 

(Some  of  above  expenditures  included  in  Church 
Welfare  Program) 


STATISTICS  AND  OTHER  DATA  COMPILED  FROM  THE  ANNUAL  REPORTS 
FOR  THE  YEAR  1937 

There  were  on  December  31,  1937:  118  Stakes  of  Zion,  (at  the 
present  time,  121)  ;  1,017  wards;  84  independent  branches,  or  a  total 
of  1,101  wards  and  branches  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion;  also,  36  missions 
(including  the  European  Mission),  951  mission  branches,  and  235 
districts. 


CHURCH  MEMBERSHIP 

Stakes    616,088 

Missions   151,664 

Total    767,752 

CHURCH  GROWTH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in 

the  stakes  and  missions    21,005 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions   14,631 


ANNUAL  CHURCH  REPORT 


77 


Converts  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions   7,322 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31, 

1937   1,983 

Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31, 

1937    30 

Number  of  local  missionaries    70 


Total  number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  Church  2,083 
Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes   2,282 


Total  missionaries   4,365 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Mission- 
ary Home   1,003 

Persons  recommended  to  the  temples  from  the  stakes   83,092 

SOCIAL  STATISTICS 


Birth  rate,  30.9  per  thousand. 

Marriage  rate,  18.7  per  thousand. 

Death  rate,  6.9  per  thousand. 

Families  owning  their  own  homes,  59.2% 


EXPENDED  FOR  THE  MAINTENANCE  OF  MISSIONARIES 


Collected  by  wards  and  paid  to  missionaries   $  91,769.00 

Average  cost  per  missionary,  1937,  $30.34  per  month,  or 
a  total  of  $364.00  per  year  per  missionary.  Average 
number  of  missionaries,  1,917,  making  a  total  average 

expense  for  the  year  of    697,788.00 

Estimated  possible  earnings  per  missionary,  $900.00  per 
year  X  1,917,  average  number  of  missionaries,  makes 
an  estimated  total  of  what  these  missionaries  might 

have  earned  if  at  home  of  -   1,725,300.00 


Total  estimated   contribution   of   missionaries  and 

their  families  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  $2,514,857.00 


CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM 
(Including  All  Church  Welfare  Work) 

Total  Church  membership  in  stakes  and  missions,  men, 

women  and  children   767,752 

Number  of  Church  members  who  paid  voluntary  fast  offer- 
ings to  help  the  needy : 

In  wards   151,056 

In  missions    21,654 


Total 


172,710 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Amount  of  voluntary  fast  offerings 
In  wards : 

Cash   $  281,002.98 

Produce    15,440.69 

In  missions: 

Cash    34,441.48 


Total  (all  expended  for  relief)   $  330,885.15 

Special  donations  to  the  Church  Welfare  Program   $  66,003.64 

Assistance  rendered  by  Relief  Society 

In  actual  disbursements  to  needy  $  57,734.67 

In  carrying  on  general  work  of  this  society   242,697.29 

Additional  assistance  extended  to  Church  Building  Pro- 
gram (Wards,  Stakes  and  Missions)  by  increasing 
from  50%  to  60%  the  Church's  contribution  to  the 

program  $  185,183.60 

Expended  from  tithes,  mostly  by  local  officers  $  298,807.55 

Expended  directly  by  the  Church  Welfare  Committee   98,836.34 

Other  donations  to  Church  Welfare  Committee   18,807.48 

Expended  for  the  erection,  extension  and  improvement  of 

hospitals  and  for  caring  for  sick  therein   203,498.45 


Total  $1,502,454.17 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  the  following  supplies  had 
been  assembled  and  were  on  hand  December  31,  1937, 
and  are  available  for  the  needy  during  the  year  1938. 

CLOTHING 

Estimated 
Value 

Men's  clothing,  pieces   13,608    $  5,444.20 

Women's  clothing,  pieces    10,313  2,533.25 

Children's  clothing,  pieces   12,100      2,420.00   $  10,397.45 

CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

Fruits  and  vegetables,  cans   516,890  64,611.00 

Fruits  and  vegetables,  bottles    82,393  16,478.60 

Dried  fruits,  pounds    17,508      1,750.80  82,840.40 

OTHER  PRODUCE 

Flour,  pounds    221,653  4,876.36 

Potatoes,  pounds   1,182,325  7,093.95 

Other  vegetables,  pounds    201,814       1,009.07  12,979.38 

FUEL 

Coal,  pounds  1,051,491  2,638.74 

Wood,  cords    2,256      6,768.00  9,406.74 


Total  on  hand  December  31,  1937 


$115,623.97 


ANNUAL  CHURCH  REPORT 


79 


In  order  to  render  moderate  financial  assistance  to  those  who  were 
engaged  in  small  farming  or  business,  and  who  did  not  have  a  bankable 
undertaking,  the  Co-operative  Security  Corporation  was  set  up.  This 
company  has  made  a  number  of  small  loans  (which  are  largely  character 
loans)  but  has  limited  the  amount  it  would  lend  to  any  person  to  at  most 
a  few  hundred  dollars. 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  very  large  contributions  have  been 
made  in  produce  of  which  no  record  was  at  the  time  made  because  the 
mechanics  for  keeping  full  records  had  not  yet  been  perfected. 

Furthermore,  there  are  no  available  records  of  the  money  value  of 
the  very  great  work  done  by  Priesthood  Quorums  and  by  the  Relief 
Society  with  and  for  individuals,  in  such  matters  as  assistance  in  building 
homes,  in  planting  gardens,  making  small  home  improvements  and 
renovations,  in  making  clothing,  and  many  like  activities.  In  some  stakes 
the  major  part  of  the  whole  Welfare  Program  work  has  been  of  this 
sort.  Some  of  the  most  valuable  assistance  has  been  rendered  in  this 
way. 

THE  CHURCH  UNEMPLOYMENT  SITUATION  AS  OF  DECEMBER  31,  1937, 

IS  AS  FOLLOWS 


Employable  needing  employment,  Jan.  1,  1937   6,544 

Employable  needing  employment,  Dec.  31,  1937    7,760 

Skilled  workmen  unemployed,  Dec.  31,  1937    1,134 

Unskilled  workmen  unemployed,  Dec.  31,  1937    6,525 

Heads  of  families  needing  employment    5,651 

Number  employed  during  year    6,071 

Number  of  persons  used  on  Church  Work  Projects  during  year....  2,532 
Number  of  persons  assisted  by  Bishops,  Relief  Society,  and  the 

General  Committee  agencies   44,440 


It  should  be  understood  that  there  are,  in  the  aggregate,  a  con- 
siderable number  of  cases  in  which  relief  is  being  furnished  to  individual 
families  both  by  the  Church  and  by  governmental  agencies,  through 
arrangements  worked  out  between  them.  The  -statistics  hereinbefore 
given  represent  only  the  contributions  made  by  the  Church  in  such  cases. 

The  same  principle  operates  in  a  considerable  number  of  hospital 
cases,  but  the  figures  given  herein  represent  only  the  Church  contribution. 

The  Church  has  not  yet  made  any  effort,  or  pretended  to  make  any 
effort,  to  take  its  members  from  governmental  work  projects;  it  has 
merely  urged  those  on  such  projects  to  do  a  full  day's  work  for  a  day's 

pay- 
it  should  also  be  understood  that  Utah  and  adjacent  areas  have 
very  large  populations  of  non-members  who  in  considerable  part  are 
engaged  in  the  industries.  The  Church  has  made  no  effort  to  take  care 
of  these,  leaving  them  to  be  cared  for  by  other  organizations  and  the 
government. 

While  the  Church  Welfare  Program  aims  of  course  to  help  those 
in  need,  its  real  purpose  is  not  merely  to  substitute  Church  gratuities 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

for  others  furnished  by  charitable  or  governmental  agencies  but  to 
rebuild  the  characters  of  its  members  and  to  promote  and  to  foster  the 
patriotic,  civic,  and  spiritual  qualities  of  the  people. 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST  OCTOBER  CONFERENCE 

Y.  W.  M.  I.  A.  General  Presidency  Reorganized : 

President  Ruth  May  Fox  released  as  President  of  the  General  Board 
of  the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association. 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  formerly  First  Counselor,  appointed  President ; 

Mrs.  Helen  Spencer  Williams  appointed  First  Counselor; 

Mrs.  Verna  W.  Goddard  appointed  Second  Counselor. 

New  Missions  Organized: 

From  the  two  German  speaking  missions  (German- Austrian  and 
Swiss  and  German)  three  new  mission  units  were  created,  to  be  known 
as  the  Swiss-Austrian  Mission,  presided  over  by  Thomas  E.  McKay, 
with  headquarters  at  Basel,  Switzerland;  East  German  Mission,  pre- 
sided over  by  Alfred  C.  Rees,  with  headquarters  at  Berlin;  and  West 
German  Mission,  presided  over  by  Philemon  M.  Kelly,  with  headquarters 
at  Frankfurt-on-the-Main,  Germany. 

New  Mission  Presidents: 

Matthew  Cowley  appointed  president  of  the  New  Zealand  Mission 
to  succeed  President  M.  Charles  Woods. 

James  Judd  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Australian  Mission,  to 
succeed  President  Thomas  D.  Rees. 

Kenneth  R.  Stevens  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Tahitian  Mission, 
to  succeed  President  Thomas  L.  Woodbury. 

Richard  E.  Folland  appointed  to  preside  over  the  South  African 
Mission,  to  succeed  President  LeGrand  P.  Backman. 

M.  Douglas  Wood  appointed  to  preside  over  the  West  German 
Mission,  to  succeed  President  Philemon  M.  Kelly. 

New  Temple  Presidents: 

President  Harold  S.  Snow  appointed  to  preside  over  the  St.  George 
Temple,  to  succeed  President  George  F.  Whitehead. 

Castle  H.  Murphy  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Hawaiian  Temple, 
to  succeed  President  Edward  L.  Clissold. 

New  Member  Appointed  to  General  Committee — Church  Welfare 
Program : 

Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  appointed  as  special  Social  Welfare  Program 
adviser. 

Roscoe  W.  Eardley  appointed  as  field  representative. 
C.  Orval  Stott  appointed  as  field  representative. 

Other  Special  Appointments: 

Joseph  S.  Peery  released  and  Joseph  J.  Cannon  appointed  to  preside 


ANNUAL  CHURCH  REPORT 


81 


over  the  Temple  Block  Mission  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  headquarters  at 
the  Bureau  of  Information ;  Brother  Peery  retained  as  Bureau  Manager. 

Richard  P.  Condie  appointed  as  Assistant  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir  Leader,  to  succeed  D.  Sterling  Wheelwright. 

Mrs.  Belle  Smith  Spafford  appointed  editor  of  the  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  to  succeed  Mary  Connelly  Kimball,  deceased. 

Elder  and  Mrs.  Joseph  A.  McRae  appointed  to  preside  over  the 
Church  landmark  at  Carthage,  Illinois. 

Lester  F.  Hewlett  appointed  to  succeed  David  A.  Smith  as  President 
of  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir. 

New  Stakes  Organized : 

Smithfield  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the  Benson  Stake  on 
January  9,  1938.  The  new  stake  embraces  Amalga,  Clarkston,  Newton, 
Smithfield  First,  Second,  Third  and  Fourth  Wards. 

Coveville,  Cornish,  Lewiston  First,  Second  and  Third,  Richmond, 
Richmond  South  and  Trenton  Wards  retained  in  Benson  Stake. 

Mount  Graham  Stake,  created  by  the  division  of  St.  Joseph  Stake 
on  February  20,  1938.  The  new  stake  embraces  Duncan,  El  Paso, 
Franklin,  Layton,  Lebanon,  Safford,  Solomonville  and  Virden  Wards, 
and  Gila  Branch  from  the  St.  Joseph  Stake,  and  Las  Cruces  and  Lords- 
burg  Branches  from  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Central,  Eden,  Emery,  Globe,  Kimball,  Miami,  Pima,  Ashurst, 
Bryce  and  Thatcher  Wards  retained  in  the  St.  Joseph  Stake. 

Phoenix  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the  Maricopa  Stake  on 
February  27,  1938.  The  new  stake  embraces  Glendale,  Papago,  Phoenix 
First,  Second  and  Third  and  Tempe  Wards. 

Lehi,  Mesa  First,  Second,  Third  and  Fourth,  Chandler,  Gilbert 
and  Pine  Wards  retained  in  the  Maricopa  Stake. 

New  Stake  Presidents  Appointed : 

Vernal  C.  Webb  appointed  president  of  the  West  Jordan  Stake 
to  succeed  President  Almon  T.  Butterfield. 

Alfred  W.  Chambers  appointed  president  of  the  newly  organized 
Smithfield  Stake. 

James  Hyrum  Riley  appointed  president  of  the  Weber  Stake  to 
succeed  President  George  E.  Browning. 

Spencer  Kimball  appointed  president  of  the  newly  organized  Mount 
Graham  Stake. 

Jesse  A.  Udall  appointed  president  of  the  St.  Joseph  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Harry  L.  Payne. 

James  Robert  Price  appointed  president  of  the  newly  organized 
Phoenix  Stake. 

Lorenzo  Wright  appointed  President  of  the  Maricopa  Stake  to 
succeed  President  James  Robert  Price. 

H.  Fred  Egan  appointed  president  of  the  South  Summit  Stake  to 
succeed  President  Zach  J.  Oblad. 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Evanston  2nd  Ward,  Woodruff  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of 
Evanston  Ward. 

Grant  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  Maywood 
Ward. 

Montebello  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of 
Eastmont  Ward. 

Smithfield  Fourth  Ward,  Smithfield  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of 
Smithfield  First  Ward. 

Bountiful  Third  and  Orchard  Wards,  South  Davis  Stake,  were 
created  by  dividing  Bountiful  First,  Second,  and  South  Bountiful  Ward 
of  that  stake. 

Duncan  Ward,  Mount  Graham  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of 
Franklin  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards: 
Hayward  Ward,  Oakland  Stake. 
Romeo  Ward,  San  Luis  Stake. 
Boulder  City  Ward,  Moapa  Stake. 

New  Independent  Branches : 

Evans  Branch,  Box  Elder  Stake,  created  from  a  dependent  branch 
of  Bear  River  Ward. 

Flagstaff  Branch,  Snowflake  Stake,  created  from  a  dependent 
branch  of  Winslow  Ward. 

Pittsburg  Branch,  Oakland  Stake,  created  from  a  dependent  branch 
of  Martinez  Ward. 

West  Suburban  Branch,  Chicago  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of 
the  Logan  Square  Ward. 

Utahn  Branch,  Duchesne  Stake,  created  from  a  dependent  branch 
of  Duchesne  Ward. 

Rains  Branch,  Carbon  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  Standardville 
Branch. 

Lordsburg  Branch,  Mount  Graham  Stake,  taken  from  a  branch  in 
the  Western  States  Mission. 

Las  Cruces  Branch,  Mount  Graham  Stake,  taken  from  a  branch  in 
the  Western  States  Mission. 

Wards  Disorganized: 

Frankburg  Ward,  Lethbridge  Stake — members  moved  away. 

Rockport  Ward,  Summit  Stake — annexed  to  Wanship  Ward. 

Widtsoe  Ward,  Garfield  Stake — annexed  to  Antimony  Ward. 

Mt.  View  Ward,  Curlew  Stake — membership  transferred  to  other 
wards. 

Branches  Disorganized : 

Coutts  Branch,  Taylor  Stake,  made  dependent  branch  of  Raymond 
First  Ward. 

Centerdale  Branch,  Bear  River  Stake. 

Wheatland  Branch,  Malad  Stake — membership  transferred  to  wards. 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF 


83 


Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away: 

John  F.  Bennett,  member  of  Church  Auditing  Committee  and  senior 
member  of  the  General  Sunday  School  Board. 

Mary  Connelly  Kimball,  editor  of  the  Relief  Society  Magazine 
and  member  of  the  Relief  Society  General  Board.  Was  former  editor 
of  the  Young  Woman's  Journal  and  member  of  the  Y.  W.  M.  I.  A. 
Board. 

William  Henry  Smart,  former  president  of  the  Eastern  States 
Mission  and  of  Wasatch,  Uintah,  Duchesne  and  Roosevelt  Stakes. 

Lucy  Emily  Woodruff  Smith,  wife  of  Apostle  George  Albert  Smith. 

Hyrum  H.  Goddard,  first  secretary  of  the  first  Y.  M.  M  .1.  A. 

Lotta  Paul  Baxter,  former  member  of  Relief  Society  General  Board. 

Henry  E.  Giles,  Professor  of  Music  and  Assistant  Tabernacle 
Organist  to  John  J.  McClellan.  In  recent  years  has  served  as  conductor 
of  the  Old  Folks  Choir. 

Martha  Horne  Tingey,  former  General  President  of  the  Y.  W.  M. 

I.  A. 

Mary  Louisa  Woolley  Clark,  mother  of  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 

Heber  Manning  Wells,  first  governor  of  the  state  of  Utah. 
Willard  Telle  Cannon,  vice-president  and  general  manager  of  Utah- 
Idaho  Sugar  Company  and  former  president  of  the  Netherlands  Mission. 
David  Bennion,  Star  Valley  Stake  Clerk. 
James  W.  Eardley,  Bishop  of  Baker  Ward,  Union  Stake. 
David  M.  Haun,  bishop  of  West  Jordan  Ward,  West  Jordan  Stake. 
E.  Ray  Beck,  Bishop  of  Sandy  Third  Ward,  East  Jordan  Stake. 
John  Peterson,  president  of  Bay  Ridge  Branch,  New  York  Stake. 
Richard  Ott,  bishop  of  Tropic  Ward,  Panguitch  Stake. 


ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  wish  I  were  more  prepared,  that  I  might  give  you  a  better  report 
of  the  mission,  but  I  am  so  thoroughly  surprised  that  I  suppose  I  will 
be  like  the  minister  we  frequently  tell  about  who  left  his  sermon  at  home 
and  told  his  congregation  that  they  would  have  to  bear  with  him  that 
day  since  he  must  depend  upon  the  Lord,  but  that  he  would  be  better 
prepared  next  time. 

It  is  a  great  inspiration  to  come  to  this  Conference;  to  hear  the 
voices  of  the  servants  of  God,  to  mingle  with  the  Saints  and  to  sit  in 
council  and  discuss  the  affairs  of  the  Church  as  the  mission  presidents 
have  the  privilege  of  doing.  I  shall  return  to  the  mission  with  renewed 
vigor,  faith  and  determination  to  discharge  my  duty  as  the  presiding 
officer  in  that  portion  of  the  vineyard  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  happy  to  be  able  to  say  to  you  that  the  work  in  the  Central 
States  Mission  continues  along  in  its  progressive  way.  The  Lord  blesses 
our  people  in  their  gatherings,  our  meetings  are  better  attended  all  the 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

time,  and  they  grow  constantly.  I  am  sure  that  faith  is  increasing  and 
the  spirit  of  happiness,  concord  and  peace  generally  pervades  our  gath- 
erings. 

I  believe  the  people  of  that  mission  are  trying  to  live  their  religion ; 
they  pay  their  tithing  very  well — a  little  improvement  each  year  over 
the  past,  nothing  spectacular.  They  want  to  do  the  will  of  the  Lord 
and  they  find  pleasure  in  his  service.  We  have  the  local  people  doing 
some  missionary  work  similar  to  the  stake  missionaries.  For  instance, 
in  Kansas  City  all  the  men  holding  the  Priesthood,  who  respond,  hold 
cottage  meetings  among  the  non-members  of  the  Church  within  the 
vicinity  of  their  homes,  and  they  accomplish  much,  I  am  sure.  In  the 
summer  time  they  help  us  with  our  street  meetings,  when  these  street 
meetings  are  being  held  in  more  than  one  neighborhood. 

The  meeting  houses  of  the  mission  are  most  of  them  in  very  good 
condition.  We  have  respectable  places  in  which  to  meet.  We  always 
have  our  wants  and  our  needs,  even  as  you  do  at  home,  but  generally 
speaking  I  am  safe  in  saying,  and  happy  to  say,  that  the  work  of  the 
Lord  is  progressing  in  that  mission. 

A  great  responsibility  is  laid  upon  those  who  receive  the  Priesthood. 
When  missionaries  volunteer  to  go  into  the  mission  field,  they  are  no 
longer  at  liberty  to  "choose  their  lives  and  what  they'll  be,"  because 
they  have  already  chosen  to  serve  the  Master,  and  covenanted  that  they 
will  do  their  part  in  attempting  to  carry  the  Gospel  message  to  those 
to  whom  they  are  sent. 

I  believe  that  with  very  few  exceptions  the  missionaries  receive  their 
calls  with  due  respect  and  reverence,  and  do  the  very  best  they  can,  human 
weaknesses  considered,  to  discharge  their  duty.  They  live  together 
in  harmony,  peace,  and  good  will,  and  if  any  of  them  do  get  out  of 
harmony,  the  rest  of  them  help  them  to  get  back  in.  There  is  a  genuine 
feeling  of  brotherly  love  among  the  missionaries.  If  they  become  con- 
cerned about  one  of  their  brethren,  they  all  try  to  help  him  into  a  better 
condition. 

I  rejoice  in  the  privileges  we  have.  I  rejoice  in  the  leadership  of 
the  Church,  in  the  kindness  and  gentleness  of  spirit  that  is  manifested 
by  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  in  the  discharge  of  their 
duty.  Those  who  speak  of  them  as  being  dictators  simply  do  not  under- 
stand ;  do  not  know.  I  have  never  known  such  gentleness  and  kindness 
in  my  life  as  I  have  found  in  associating  with  these  brethren  in  the 
limited  opportunities  that  come  to  me  to  associate  with  them.  I  testify 
to  you  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  inspires  them  and  blesses  them,  and 
there  is  wisdom  in  their  counsel.  I  have  never  yet  made  a  mistake  by 
observing  the  counsel  that  has  been  given  to  me  by  those  who  preside 
over  me. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  faith  in  his  servants,  faith  to  do  what  they 
ask  us  to  do,  for  our  own  welfare  and  happiness,  is  my  parting  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


85 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  have  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  with  me  while  addressing  you. 

The  preaching  of  the  Gospel  has  always  been  one  of  the  major 
activities  of  the  Church.  The  responsibility  for  this  work  rests  on  the 
Priesthood,  especially  on  the  Seventies,  because  of  the  nature  of  their 
calling  to  be  special  witnesses  of  the  Lord  in  traveling  among  the  people, 
both  at  home  and  abroad.  This  assignment  to  preach  and  teach  will 
always  be  ours  because  the  Lord  has  indicated  that  during  the  time  that 
his  people  are  upon  the  earth,  all  men  and  women  shall  have  the  oppor- 
tunity of  understanding  and  accepting  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Before  any  punishment  has  been  meted  out  to  a  people  because  of 
their  disobedience  or  their  lack  of  faithfulness,  the  Lord,  in  sending 
his  servants  to  preach  and  teach  among  the  people,  has  always  given 
them  an  opportunity  of  repenting  of  their  sins  and  of  coming  back  to 
him. 

This  missionary  work  has  been  in  existence  even  from  the  time 
when  Adam  was  placed  upon  the  earth.  It  was  given  to  him  that  he 
should  preach  and  that  he  should  teach  his  family  that  they  should  repent 
of  their  sins  and  do  the  things  which  ought  to  be  done  in  order  that  they 
might  find  their  way  back  into  the  presence  of  God. 

Perhaps  at  times  we  forget  this  obligation  which  rests  upon  us 
as  heads  of  families.  I  believe  that  if  we  were  more  faithful  we  would 
feel  the  responsibility  of  teaching  our  boys  and  girls,  praying  with  them, 
and  bearing  testimony  to  them  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  We  would  then  have  greater  influence  with  them  and  thus 
help  them  avoid  many  things  which  are  contrary  to  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

When  the  Gospel  has  been  upon  the  earth  the  Lord  has  indicated 
that  his  Priesthood  shall  preach  and  teach  among  the  people.  All 
through  the  early  days  down  to  the  time  of  Christ  prophets  were  assigned 
to  this  labor,  to  warn  the  people,  and  to  entreat  them  to  repent  of  their 
sins  and  come  back  and  worship  the  Lord  in  order  that  they  might  not 
be  destroyed.  When  the  Christ  came  upon  the  earth  he  preached  and 
taught  among  the  people  and  chose  disciples  and  chose  Seventies  that 
they  might  represent  him  in  preaching  and  teaching.  When  the  Christ 
was  crucified  and  the  work  was  given  to  the  Apostles  to  preach  and 
teach,  they  went  out  and  even  gave  their  lives  that  men  and  women  might 
know  this  Gospel. 

When  the  Church  was  established  in  these  latter  days,  missionaries 
were  sent  out  under  all  kinds  of  circumstances  and  conditions.  They 
went  out  when  they  were  sick,  they  went  out  when  they  were  poor,  they 
went  out  in  the  days  of  persecution,  in  order  to  do  something  for  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  that  the  people  might  not  be  destroyed  or  die  without 
having  the  privilege  of  understanding  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  This 
assignment  has  come  down  to  us  through  all  the  days  of  the  Church  and 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

we  are  therefore  still  sending  missionaries  into  the  world  to  preach  this 
wonderful  Gospel  so  that  men  and  women  may  not  be  lost. 

In  recent  years  we  have  not  only  been  doing  this  foreign  missionary 
work,  but  the  Church  has  established  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  the  home 
mission  work.  The  presidents  of  stakes  and  those  associated  with  them 
have  seen  the  value  of  this  work,  and  they  are  assigning  men  and  women 
to  go  among  the  people  who  are  living  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  but  are  not 
members,  so  that  they  might  have  an  understanding  of  the  plan  of  life 
and  salvation  as  revealed  to  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Reports  from  the  stakes  indicate  that  because  of  the  labors  of  the  mission- 
aries, many  of  these  people  are  accepting  the  Gospel  and  many  members 
who  have  been  inactive  in  their  Church  duties  are  coming  back  into 
Church  service. 

Our  mission  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  is  of  course  to  endeavor  to 
convince  men  and  women  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel.  We  also 
have  another  mission, — that  of  bringing  to  the  attention  of  our  good 
friends  and  neighbors  the  real  value  of  many  of  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  As  they  live  among  us  they  have  not  acquainted 
themselves  with  many  of  the  truths  that  we  have  in  the  Church.  They 
know  something  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom ;  they  know  a  little  about 
the  Temple  work ;  they  know  something  about  how  we  care  for  the  needs 
of  our  young  people, — but  the  majority  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  have  not  been  explained  to  them. 

While  we  have  no  hope  of  getting  everybody  that  we  contact  to 
come  into  the  Church,  we  do  have  the  hope,  the  prayer  and  the  desire 
to  acquaint  them  with  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  so  that  if  they  move 
away  they  can  carry  with  them  a  correct  knowledge  and  understanding 
of  why  we  worship  God  and  a  correct  conception  of  our  religion. 

Just  recently  I  boarded  the  train  at  Salt  Lake  City  with  a  number 
of  other  people.  Among  them  was  a  young  lady  who,  soon  after  being 
seated,  was  approached  by  fellow  passengers  for  information  concerning 
the  Mormon  people.  As  they  talked  with  this  young  lady  they  soon 
found  that  she  was  not  a  member  of  the  Church  and  that  she  had  been 
going  to  school  at  the  University.  She  had  had  some  contact  with  the 
Mormon  people,  especially  with  the  boys  and  girls. 

Practically  the  only  thing  that  she  could  tell  about  the  Mormon 
people  was  that  they  had  a  doctrine  in  the  Church  called  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  and  because  of  it  none  of  the  people  of  the  Church  smoked 
or  drank.  Of  course  that  was  good  information.  Then  she  qualified 
it  in  a  minute  or  two  and  said  the  older  people  do  not  drink  or  smoke 
but  some  of  the  young  people  do.  When  she  had  finished  telling  what 
little  she  knew  about  the  Church  she  said:  "Well,  after  all  is  said  and 
done,  the  Mormon  people  are  a  very  fine,  splendid  people." 

As  I  sat  in  my  seat  and  listened  to  her  vague  ideas  regarding  the 
doctrines  of  the  Church  I  thought  of  the  splendid  opportunities  we  have 
in  Salt  Lake  City  and  all  of  our  towns  where  our  stakes  are  organized, 
to  go  to  these  fine  friends  of  ours  and  help  them  to  understand  what 
we  really  believe.  We  all  ought  to  be  missionaries  and  help  our  neighbors 


ELDER  ALMA  L.  PETERSEN 


87 


and  friends  to  understand  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and  perhaps 
this  understanding  will  gradually  grow  and  increase  until  they  shall 
become  well  informed  regarding  the  things  we  have  in  the  Church. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  keep  his  commandments 
and  to  do  the  things  we  ought  to  do.  May  we  be  a  good  example  to  the 
people  who  live  among  us.  May  the  Lord  bless  the  missionaries  in  the 
stakes  of  Zion  so  that  they  will  know  how  to  approach  people  in  such  a 
humble  and  intelligent  way  that  they  shall  be  convinced  that  this  is  indeed 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  in 
this  great  work,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man." 

ELDER  ALMA  L.  PETERSEN 

Former  President  of  the  Danish  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  trust  that  the  short  time  I  stand  before 
you,  you  will  offer  a  prayer  to  our  Heavenly  Father  in  my  behalf. 

I  bring  to  you  a  greeting  from  President  Richard  R.  Lyman  and 
his  dear  wife,  who  are  doing  a  very  fine  work  in  the  European  Mission. 
I  bring  to  you  also  a  greeting  from  President  Mark  Garff  of  the  Danish 
Mission,  also  the  Elders  and  Saints  there. 

I  am  glad  to  report  to  you — and  I  believe  that  I  can  say  it  truthfully 
— that  never  before  in  the  history  of  the  Danish  Mission  have  we  been 
so  respected  and  so  well  thought  of  as  we  are  at  the  present  time.  We 
had  a  wonderful  harvest  in  the  past  three  and  a  half  years,  and  have 
brought  many  fine  people  into  the  Church.  We  have  brought  into  the 
Church  some  very  good  Catholic  people  who  have  become  faithful  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  are  doing  a  fine  work. 

I  would  be  ungrateful  were  I  not  to  say  that  we  were  very  for- 
tunate, while  I  was  presiding  over  the  Danish  Mission,  to  have  some 
fine  brethren  and  sisters  visit  us.  Brother  George  D.  Pyper  visited 
Denmark  and  visited  our  Sunday  Schools.  He  did  a  lot  of  good  for  the 
Sunday  School  cause  in  the  Danish  Mission.  We  had  the  pleasure  of 
having  President  Grant  visit  our  mission,  and  I  do  not  know  of  anything 
that  did  our  mission  so  much  good  as  the  visit  of  himself  and  associates. 

I  am  going  to  call  to  your  attention  just  one  thing  that  happened. 
The  day  that  President  Grant  arrived  in  Copenhagen  one  sister,  who 
was  a  faithful  Latter-day  Saint,  came  to  me  and  said :  "President  Peter- 
sen, if  I  can  but  shake  his  hand  I  know  that  I  will  be  well." 

I  am  just  citing  that  to  show  you  the  faith  that  our  Saints  have  in 
the  work.  They  are  living  the  Gospel;  I  think  I  dare  say  that  many 
of  them  are  living  the  Gospel  better  than  we  are  here  at  home.  I  am 
going  to  refer  to  one  thing  that  happened  just  last  month.  A  large 
convention  was  held  in  the  State  of  New  Jersey,  where  many  of  the 
teachers  and  the  professors  of  different  states  were  present.  Helen 
Keller  was  one  of  the  speakers  at  this  convention,  and  after  she  had 
delivered  her  paper  the  reporters  came  to  her  and  asked  if  they  might 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

ask  her  a  personal  question.  She  said  she  would  be  very  glad  to  answer 
their  questions.   This  is  the  question  they  asked : 

"Miss  Keller,  if  you  had  the  wish  of  your  heart  this  day,  what 
would  you  ask  for?" 

She  said:  "If  I  had  the  wish  of  my  heart,  it  would  be  that  peace 
might  come  back  to  the  world  again." 

God  bless  her  for  such  a  noble  wish !  If  I  had  my  wish  today,  I  do 
not  think  that  I  would  wish  for  that,  because  I  am  not  so  sure,  under 
present  conditions,  that  peace  would  stay  on  the  earth  very  long.  But 
if  I  had  the  wish  of  my  heart  today  it  would  be  that  faith  would  come 
back  to  the  children  of  men,  that  faith  would  come  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  that  faith  would  come  back  into  the  homes,  that  faith  more  abun- 
dant would  come  back  into  our  Church,  for  the  Lord  has  said  we  cannot 
please  him  without  faith.  He  has  also  said  that  with  faith  we  can 
remove  mountains. 

God  grant,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  faith  may  increase.  "Ask 
and  ye  shall  receive,"  is  the  Savior's  message.  May  we  ask,  and  may 
we  seek  the  Lord  that  faith  may  come  into  our  hearts,  that  we  may 
serve  God  and  keep  his  commandments,  and  I  want  to  bear  testimony 
to  you  that  if  we  will  live  the  Gospel  we  will  relieve  the  head  of  this 
Church,  the  Twelve,  and  those  who  preside  over  us,  of  many  of  the 
problems  that  they  have  to  battle  with  today. 

God  grant  unto  each  and  every  one  of  us  that  we  may  have  more 
faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  David  O.  McKay  is  home  on  account  of  illness ;  Brother 
Reed  Smoot  is  not  feeling  well,  and  we  asked  him  to  stay  home  today. 
Elder  John  Wells  is  absent  on  account  of  a  death  in  the  family. 

We  have  received  the  following  cablegram  from  Elder  George 
Albert  Smith,  from  Auckland,  New  Zealand: 

Greetings  from  Australian  and  New  Zealand  Saints. 

ELDER  M.  CHARLES  WOODS 

Former  President  of  the  New  Zealand  Mission 

I  have  often  sat  looking  from  the  other  end  of  this  house,  but  I  think 
that  perhaps  other  than  from  the  choir  seats,  I  never  before  looked  out 
from  the  pulpit.  Realizing  there  are  many  people  who  attend  Conference 
I  have  often  thought,  surely  it  would  be  an  awe-inspiring  sight  to  look 
over  the  great  congregation. 

My  family  and  I  returned  from  New  Zealand  night  before  last, 
coming  home  from  the  coast  by  way  of  Los  Angeles  and  the  desert.  Just 
prior  to  our  leaving  we  met  Elder  George  Albert  Smith  and  Elder  Rufus 
K.  Hardy.   Brother  Hardy  formerly  presided  there.   We  saw  them  for 


ELDER  M.  CHARLES  WOODS 


89 


a  day  only,  as  their  boat  stopped  over  in  New  Zealand  on  its  way  to 
Australia. 

I  contemplate  speaking  to  you  sometime  so  that  I  may  tell  you  the 
many  good  things  that  came  into  our  hearts  and  our  home  in  that  land. 
New  Zealand  is  a  land  as  far  south  on  the  other  side  of  the  equator  as  we 
are  north.  Its  largest  city,  Auckland,  is  a  city  larger  than  Salt  Lake.  The 
climate  is  not  like  Hawaii,  neither  is  it  like  the  other  islands  of  the  South 
Seas.  The  South  and  North  Islands  form  the  great  island  of  New  Zea- 
land. It  is  as  large  in  its  extent  as  the  State  of  Utah.  I  think  it  could 
perhaps  be  called — as  it  is  very  often  called— The  Britain  of  the  South 
Seas.  You  distinguish  it  from  the  other  islands  of  the  Pacific  by  the  icy 
fingers  which  reach  skyward  on  both  islands,  and  by  its  emerald  color  so 
different  from  the  desert  that  I  have  just  crossed. 

And  in  passing  may  I  say  for  the  first  time  I  was  a  little  ashamed  of 
my  people  as  I  drove  up  through  the  south  end  of  this  state,  and  I  hope  I 
will  not  see  the  same  picture  when  I  go  farther  north.  The  barns,  chicken 
coops,  and  other  buildings  are  not  a  credit  to  this  people,  that  is  all  I  have 
to  say  along  that  line ;  but  perhaps,  having  a  little  of  the  artistic  in  my 
own  nature  I  should  say  that  some  paint  would  do  wonders,  and  if  the 
old  gunny  sacks  hanging  on  the  chicken  coops  were  taken  down  and  some- 
thing else  put  there  in  their  place,  it  would  be  very  helpful. 

Paint  does  wonderful  things  for  both  people  and  places.  I  know 
that  in  one  case  it  covers  a  multitude  of  skins,  while  in  the  other  a  mul- 
titude of  sins. 

I  can  also  say  that  I  noticed  some  of  your  meeting  houses  in  the 
south  end  of  the  State,  the  grounds  of  which  had  been  landscaped  but 
are  in  many  cases  sadly  neglected.  I  saw  only  a  few  from  the  road.  I 
heard  the  young  man  who  was  driving  us  home  in  his  car  remark  that 
he  admired  the  people  for  planting  the  grounds,  but  he  disliked  his  people 
for  letting  them  go  uncared  for. 

I  do  not  know  exactly  what  to  say,  but  to  tell  you  that  your  boys — 
or  I  should  say  young  men — are  well.  I  have  taken  them  to  my  heart 
as  my  own.  You  have  lost  a  part  of  your  sons  for  they  are  partly  mine. 
A  man  said  to  me  before  I  left :  "Elder  Woods,  the  finest  thing  that  could 
come  into  a  man's  life  is  contact  with  fine  young  spirits."  We  have 
found  this  to  be  quite  true,  and  perhaps  one  of  the  great  compensations 
which  is  now  ours.  We  expect  joy  in  both  this  life  and  in  eternity  be- 
cause of  these  contacts.  I  have  often  joked  with  the  Elders,  telling  them 
that  all  a  mission  president  and  his  family  need  to  do  for  a  livelihood 
would  be  to  visit  their  homes  and  live  with  them  and  their  relations,  con- 
tinuously feasting  with  them  on  the  fat  of  the  land  and  enjoying  their 
wholesome  spirits. 

My  two  sons  have  been  on  missions  in  Germany,  so  my  entire  fami- 
ly has  spent  time  in  the  mission  field.  I  do  not  know  how  many  years  it 
would  be,  but  we  are  happy  for  everyone  of  them,  and  the  contact  with 
your  fine  sons  has  added  a  charm  to  all  our  lives. 

I  bring  to  you  a  fine  report  from  the  Saints,  as  one  has  just  been 
read  here.    I  think  perhaps  it  comes  from  Elder  George  Albert  Smith. 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

I  remember  having  been  the  cause  of  sending  conference  greetings 
to  you  a  time  or  two  while  we  were  away. 

Really  this  crowd  over-awes  me ;  I  am  not  thinking  properly,  I  am 
just  standing  here  seeing  the  sea  of  faces  that  are  before  me.  It  reminds 
me  of  looking  down  upon  the  many  upturned  faces  as  we  stood  on  the 
deck  of  the  vessel  before  we  sailed  from  the  shores  of  New  Zealand. 

We  have  been  treated  very  kindly  by  the  New  Zealand  government. 
Our  records  are  constantly  used  to  determine  old  age  pensions,  etc. 
There  is  a  kindly  feeling  between  the  government  officers  and  our  Mis- 
sion office.  There  has  also  been  a  most  friendly  spirit  with  the  office 
of  the  American  Consul.  Mr.  Walter  I.  Boyle,  who  until  recently  has 
been  American  Consul  in  Auckland  for  many  years,  has  often  invited  us 
to  his  home  and  many  social  gatherings. 

The  Church  owns  property  in  New  Zealand  and  the  Elders  who  are 
among  the  Maori  people  have  their  own  homes,  the  headquarters  of  the 
different  districts.  The  Elders  laboring  among  the  Europeans  are  not 
so  fortunate,  but  are  still  paying  their  board  as  other  missionaries  do. 
Your  sons  among  the  Maoris  are  not  doing  regular  preaching,  but  are 
acting  like  bishops  and  helping  with  the  taking  care  of  the  sick,  building 
and  gardening  and  other  things  to  further  the  mission  work.  The  Elders 
are  all  very  happy,  they  love  the  people  of  New  Zealand  and  I  bring 
their  greetings  to  you  Saints  here  in  Zion. 

May  God  bless  you  and  make  you  dear  to  me  again  as  you  always 
have  been,  make  you  more  dear  than  you  have  heretofore  been,  and  I  ask 
his  blessings  upon  this  work  and  those  who  are  still  conducting  the  great 
ship  of  Zion,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  PRESTON  NIBLEY 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

I  am  pleased  to  report  the  activities  of  the  Saints  and  the  mission- 
aries in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

About  forty-five  years  ago  my  father  and  David  Eccles  of  Ogden 
established  a  sawmill  at  Baker  City,  Oregon.  They  gathered  around 
them  a  few  members  of  the  Church  as  laborers  and  executives  there, 
and  gradually  a  little  branch  of  the  Church  was  formed,  a  Sunday 
School  was  established,  and,  as  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  learn,  that 
was  the  first  Sunday  School  in  what  is  now  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission.  As  a  child  I  had  the  opportunity  of  attending  that  Sunday 
School.  Returning  after  an  absence  of  many  years,  what  a  great  change 
does  one  behold. 

There  is  scarcely  a  city  in  the  Northwest  in  which  we  do  not  find 
a  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  now  have  ninety-six  Sunday 
Schools  scattered  all  the  way  from  Alaska  to  southern  Oregon  and  as 
far  east  as  Great  Falls,  Montana.  We  have  a  membership  of  fifteen 
thousand  people.  It  is  interesting  to  me  to  note  that  our  people  from 
the  stakes  are  moving  into  the  Northwest.   During  the  year  we  received 


ELDER  PRESTON  NIB  LEY 


91 


over  one  thousand  recommends  in  the  office  of  people  moving  from  the 
stakes  and  settling  upon  the  lands  and  in  the  cities  of  our  mission. 

It  is  also  very  interesting  to  me  that  last  year  our  missionaries  found 
over  one  thousand  members  of  the  Church  whose  presence  we  were  not 
aware  of  until  the  missionaries  discovered  them.  Some  of  our  people 
like  to  move  out  there  and  go  into  hiding,  but  we  like  to  find  them  and 
we  have  organized  branches  among  the  people  we  have  found  whose 
presence  we  were  not  aware  of  previously. 

There  are  many  great  agricultural  opportunities  in  the  Northwest. 
They  are  constructing  on  the  Columbia  River  at  Grand  Coulee  a  dam 
which  will  divert  the  waters  of  the  great  Columbia  River  into  central 
Washington  and  irrigate  eventually  1,200,000  acres;  and  I  want  to 
encourage  our  people,  if  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  agree,  to  in- 
vestigate the  opportunities  of  that  project. 

During  the  year  that  has  passed  we  organized  in  our  mission  ten 
new  branches,  twenty-five  new  Sunday  Schools,  thirty-four  Primaries, 
and  nineteen  Relief  Society  organizations,  and  baptized  six  hundred 
people. 

I  want  to  say  a  word  about  the  missionaries.  You  are  sending  us 
a  fine  group  of  young  people,  and  we  enjoy  them.  The  missionaries  are 
kept  going  on  their  enthusiasm,  and  I  hope  that  you  will  write  them 
optimistic  letters.  When  the  old  cow  dies,  or  the  mortgage  becomes  due, 
do  not  sit  right  down  and  write  your  missionary  a  twelve-page  letter 
about  it.  Sometimes  it  takes  us  two  or  three  weeks  to  get  them  back 
and  going  and  steamed  up  again. 

I  want  to  pay  a  tribute  to  President  Edward  J.  Wood,  who  presides 
over  the  Alberta  Temple.  I  want  to  say  that  that  Temple  under  President 
Wood  exerts  a  fine  spiritual  influence  over  our  mission,  and  all  our 
Saints  who  go  there  return  with  something  that  they  did  not  have  before. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  the  kingdom  of  God  that  we  are 
building  on  the  earth.  It  contains  within  it  the  solution  of  all  the 
problems  that  perplex  mankind.  It  has  only  begun  to  grow ;  its  limits 
are  unknown  to  us,  and  of  the  scope  of  its  work  we  can  hardly  conceive. 

In  closing  I  want  to  read  a  paragraph  from  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith's  "Wentworth  Letter."  In  1842,  on  the  1st  of  March,  the  Prophet 
in  Nauvoo  sat  down  and  wrote  a  letter  to  Mr.  John  Wentworth  in 
Chicago,  who  had  inquired  concerning  the  belief  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.   This  is  one  paragraph  from  that  famous  letter : 

No  unhallowed  hand  can  stop  this  work  from  progressing ;  persecutions 
may  rage,  mobs  may  combine,  armies  may  assemble,  calumny  may  defame, 
but  the  truth  of  God  will  go  forth  boldly,  nobly,  and  independent,  till  it 
has  penetrated  every  continent,  visited  every  clime,  swept  every  country, 
and  sounded  in  every  ear;  till  the  purposes  of  God  shall  be  accomplished, 
and  the  Great  Jehovah  shall  say  the  work  is  done. 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  testify  to  you  that  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  are  true,  and  I  do  so  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

ELDER  ORLANDO  C.  WILLIAMS 


President  of  the  Spanish- American  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  am  happy  with  you  in  this  conference 
session  and  to  receive  the  inspiration  that  has  come  to  us.  I  am  thankful 
above  all  else  for  the  leadership  of  this  Church,  for  the  knowledge  we 
have  that  the  Priesthood  of  God — which  is  the  power  to  officiate  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  upon  the  earth — is  directing  this  Church  work  and 
all  the  movements  of  it. 

I  bring  to  you  greetings  from  the  missionaries  and  Saints  in  the 
Spanish-American  Mission.  The  missionaries — your  sons  and  daughters 
— are  well,  and  they  are  happy  in  the  great  missionary  work  that  they 
are  performing.  I  was  made  glad  with  the  words  of  Brother  Ballard, 
wherein  he  said  that  the  day  of  the  other  branches  of  the  House  of  Israel 
was  about  to  dawn.  We  feel  that  the  work  is  opening  up  among  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  Father  Lehi  faster  than  we  can  take  care  of  it. 

There  seems  to  be  a  new  spirit  among  the  people,  and  the  missionar- 
ies catch  the  spirit  of  it  also,  and  we  are  laboring  diligently,  day  after  day, 
to  preach  the  Gospel  to  them  to  their  understanding,  and  to  bring  to  those 
who  are  already  members  of  the  Church  a  deeper  knowledge  of  its  prin- 
ciples and  a  keener  appreciation  of  the  heritage  that  is  theirs.  We  pray 
continually  that  the  Lord  will  hasten  the  day  of  their  redemption,  when 
they  will  be  brought  into  full  knowledge  and  light  of  the  Gospel,  and  that 
they  may  feel  a  closer  contact  with  the  body  of  the  Church. 

We  of  the  Spanish-American  Mission,  like  others  who  are  laboring 
among  those  who  speak  Spanish,  have  a  love  that  is  deep  for  those  people, 
and  we  feel  that  regardless  of  the  color  of  their  skin  they  are  of  the 
house  of  Israel,  beloved  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  are  one  with  us. 

I  have  been  moved  many  times  by  the  testimonies  that  I  have  heard 
as  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel,  but  few  have  moved  me  more 
deeply  than  one  recently  on  a  conference  tour  of  Texas,  when  in  a  little 
town  down  on  the  Rio  Grande  we  were  holding  conference  and  I  called 
on  one  good  brother  to  speak  who  had  come  across  the  line  from  his 
home  in  Old  Mexico.  As  he  stood  before  me  bearing  his  testimony  that 
he  knew  that  God  lived,  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  I  was  moved  deeply  by  his  words  and 
the  spirit  of  them.  I  saw  that  good  brother  not  as  he  stood  before  me, 
bent  by  age  and  the  privations  he  had  endured  throughout  his  life  in  a 
struggle  for  existence,  not  with  a  dark  skin,  but  as  one  of  the  sons  of 
God,  measured  by  the  intent  of  his  heart,  by  his  humility,  and  as  he  will 
appear  in  the  day  when  they  will  be  a  white  and  delightsome  people. 

I  am  thankful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  opportunity  that  is 
mine  to  labor  with  that  humble,  good  people,  because  they  are  indeed 
choice,  and  you  need  not  be  concerned  because  your  sons  and  daughters 
are  called  to  labor  among  them.  They  are  loved  by  that  people,  they  are 
well  received,  and  they  have  within  their  hearts  a  love  that  is  deep  for  the 
people  who  are  the  sons  and  daughters  of  Father  Lehi. 

I  do  not  wish  to  take  more  of  your  time,  but  to  leave  with  you  my 


ELDER  W.  AIRD  MacDONALD 


93 


testimony  that  I  know  that  we  are  engaged  in  the  Lord's  work,  and  that 
we  are  being  led  by  inspiration  and  revelation  through  the  leadership 
that  is  ours  in  this  Church,  and  if  I  would  leave  any  admonition  it  would 
be  that  we  as  a  people  strive  to  grow  more  humble  day  by  day,  and  that 
we  follow  more  closely  the  leadership  of  the  Church.  I  leave  this  with 
you  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  W.  AIRD  MACDONALD 

President  of  the  California  Mission 

I  am  conscious  of  what  is  known  as  the  "dizzy  heights."  I  am 
humbled  by  the  great  responsibility  that  rests  upon  one  who  is  called  to 
address  the  Saints  of  the  Lord,  but  I  am  grateful  to  bring  to  you  a  report 
of  the  California  Mission,  and  to  bring  to  you  the  greetings  of  the  mis- 
sionaries and  nine  thousand  fine  Saints  in  that  mission.  I  am  happy  to 
bring  you  word  that  the  call  of  our  Prophet  at  the  last  Conference,  that 
"the  presiding  officers  of  the  Church  shall  be  keepers  of  the  law,"  has  been 
carried  out  in  the  California  mission,  with  the  result  that  there  has  been 
a  revival,  if  we  may  call  it  that,  in  the  faith  of  the  people. 

I  am  happy  to  bring  to  you  the  greetings  of  the  missionaries,  these 
fine  young  men  and  young  women  who  have  been  sent  into  the  field,  who, 
with  enthusiasm  and  earnestness,  are  carrying  forward  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  with  the  result  that  during  the  past  year  four  hundred  and  twenty- 
five  baptisms  are  recorded  in  our  mission. 

We  have  fifty-one  branches  out  there,  twenty-six  of  them  housed 
in  their  own  chapels.  We  have  organized  in  the  mission  six  districts, 
operating  as  "junior  stakes,"  and  we  place  the  responsibility  of  governing, 
developing,  and  building  up  these  sections  and  branches  on  the  shoulders 
of  local  brethren.  We  are  happy  to  say  to  you  that  they  have  appreciated 
it  and  are  doing  a  splendid  work. 

Ten  Priesthood  quorums  have  been  organized,  which  have  given 
Priesthood  activity  to  men  who  for  years  have  read  of  Priesthood  work 
but  have  had  no  part  in  it.  A  splendid  work  is  being  accomplished. 

The  highlight  of  our  mission  during  the  past  six  months  has  been 
the  recent  visit  of  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  He  visited  all  parts  of  the  mission  and  preached  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  people.  Our  people  appreciated  it  and  were  thrilled 
at  hearing  the  good  old-fashioned  Gospel  preached  and  they  were  greatly 
instructed  by  Elder  Smith.  They  will  long  remember  his  visit  to  the 
mission. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  that  has  come  to  us  to  labor  in 
this  great  missionary  work,  for,  as  the  Prophet  has  said,  "after  all  has 
been  said,  our  greatest  work  is  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ."  So 
I  am  thrilled  for  the  opportunity  of  laboring  with  these  fine  missionaries, 
young  men  and  women  who  have  been  sent  there  to  preach  the  Gospel. 
I  am  reminded  of  what  a  state  official  said  to  me  recently  in  Sacramento : 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

"I  do  not  know  much  about  your  Mormon  theology  or  what  you  teach,  but 
I  think  you  are  doing  one  of  the  greatest  works  among  the  youth  of 
America  today." 

I  asked  him  to  explain,  and  he  said :  "It  is  in  these  young  men  you 
send  on  missions  who  go  about  the  world.  If  I  had  a  son  I  would  want 
him  to  go  on  a  mission  for  the  Mormon  Church." 

I  thought  that  was  a  real  tribute.  He  had  seen  and  witnessed  the 
growth  and  improvement  that  comes  to  these  young  men  and  young 
women  who  labor  in  the  mission  field. 

So,  to  you  parents,  I  want  to  say  that  nothing  in  the  world  that  you 
can  do  for  your  sons  and  daughters  will  ever  measure  up  to  the  ex- 
periences, or  the  growth  and  development  that  will  come  to  them,  nor 
the  possibilities  for  future  success,  as  for  the  time  they  spend  in  the 
mission  field.  So  I  hope  that  you  will  regard  a  mission  for  your  sons 
and  daughters  as  one  of  the  obligations  that  the  Lord  has  placed  upon 
you ;  to  see  that  they  have  opportunity  to  engage  in  this  service  that  will 
carry  them  far  in  their  lives. 

I  am  grateful  to  report  to  you  the  fine  work  of  the  Saints  in  the 
California  Mission,  and  to  bring  you  the  message,  you  Bishops  of  wards, 
that  a  little  branch  in  California  whose  obedience  to  the  law  of  tithing 
during  the  past  year  gave  them  a  $30  per  capita  record;  and  another 
little  branch  in  Arizona  where  every  member  who  earned  during  the 
year  paid  tithing ;  a  branch  that  is  100  %  in  keeping  of  that  law. 

We  have  more  than  ten  branches  in  the  California  Mission  that  paid 
tithing  per  capita  above  $14.  I  have  labored  in  the  stakes,  and  I  know 
what  it  is  to  try  to  get  some  of  our  people  to  obey  this  law.  We  sing, 
"We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet,"  and  "Come,  Listen  to  a 
Prophet's  Voice,"  and  when  we  hear  these  voices  we  pay  little  heed  to 
them.  It  seems  to  be  the  spirit  of  people  to  revere  the  old  prophets  and 
to  slay  the  living  ones.  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you  that  we  are 
guided  by  prophets  of  God  today,  and  that  the  work  of  this  Church  and 
its  leadership  is  in  the  hands  of  men  inspired  of  our  Father  in  heaven, 
and  the  Latter-day  Saint  who  listens  and  obeys  counsel  will  always  find 
his  footsteps  in  the  paths  of  righteousness. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  God,  and  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  the  word  of  the  Lord,  that 
we  as  a  people  should  be  more  concerned  and  more  familiar  with  the 
truths  that  are  contained  in  these  sacred  records.  God  bless  us  to  be  a 
people  that  shall  be  an  example  to  the  world,  that  our  good  works  may 
lead  other  good  men  and  women  throughout  the  world  to  a  knowledge  of 
the  truth.  I  want  to  say  to  you,  in  harmony  with  what  I  said  about  our 
being  led  by  prophets  of  God,  that  this  recent  new  work  that  has  been 
inaugurated  in  the  Church — our  great  welfare  program — -is  the  key  that 
opens  more  doors  in  the  mission  field  today  than  anything  else.  Men 
everywhere  are  interested  in  knowing  what  the  Mormon  Church  is  doing 
for  its  people,  and  not  alone  that  they  are  being  cared  for,  but  that  the 
Church  is  requiring  every  man  to  be  a  worker  and  not  an  idler.  Intelli- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


95 


gent  men  of  the  world  are  concerned  with  the  fact  that  this  Church  re- 
quires labor  from  those  who  shall  receive  its  gratuities. 

God  bless  us  to  be  what  we  ought  to  be,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Send  Forth  Thy  Spirit"  (Schuetky),  was  sung  by  the 


Elder  Leonard  G.  Ball,  President  of  the  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Wednesday  after- 
noon, April  6,  at  2  o'clock. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  that  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
would  furnish  the  music  for  this  meeting,  and  that  the  Choir  and  congre- 
gation would  sing  as  the  opening  number,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Taylor  Nelson,  President  of  the  Oneida  Stake. 


Presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities 
and  General  Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers, 
and  they  were  unanimously  sustained,  as  follows  : 


Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 


Choir. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


FIRST  PRESIDENCY 


PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 


COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 


Rudger  Clawson 
Reed  Smoot 


Richard  R.  Lyman 


Melvin  J.  Ballard 
John  A.  Widtsoe 
Joseph  F.  Merrill 
Charles  A.  Callis 
Albert  E.  Bowen 


George  Albert  Smith 
George  F.  Richards 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Stephen  L  Richards 


Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  to  be  ordained  an  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  to  be  set  apart  as  an  associate  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles. 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

ACTING  PATRIARCH  TO  CHURCH 

George  F.  Richards 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  acting  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Ruf  us  K.  Hardy 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 

It  is  only  fair  to  say  to  the  good  people  here  that  during  the  admini- 
stration of  Bishop  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  and  his  counselors  the  affairs  of 
the  Church  have  been  managed  in  a  most  wonderful  and  splendid  manner, 
that  we  have  had  more  buildings  erected  than  in  any  other  similar  period 
since  the  erection  of  these  buildings  has  been  placed  under  the  direction 
of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  that  the  work  has  been  done  much  better  and 
at  much  less  expense  in  proportion  to  the  kind  of  buildings  than  at  any 
previous  time. 

The  Presidency  have  appreciated  the  great  burden  of  work  that  was 
lifted  from  their  shoulders  and  placed  upon  the  shoulders  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  a  few  years  ago,  and  the  Bishopric  have  done  that  work  in  a 
splendid  manner.  We  appreciate  it  beyond  our  power  to  express  it. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants ;  Andrew  Jen- 
son  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Rudger  Clawson  Franklin  S.  Harris 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L  Richards  Franklin  L.  West 
Richard  R.  Lyman 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


97 


COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams 

As  you  have  heard  read  today,  Brother  John  F.  Bennett,  who  was 
one  of  the  Auditing  Committee,  has  passed  on,  and  we  overlooked  se- 
lecting another  man  to  take  his  place.  We  shall  fill  this  vacancy  before 
the  next  Conference. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President ;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor ; 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

GENERAL  COMMITTEE  CHURCH  WELFARE  WORK 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marvin  O.  Ashton 

Mark  Austin 

Campbell  M.  Brown 

William  E.  Ryberg 

Stringham  A.  Stevens 

J.  Frank  Ward 

Theodore  M.  DeBry,  Secretary 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Kate  M.  Barker,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Edith  Hunter  Lambert,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

On  the  sacred  pages  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  these  eternal  truths  ap- 
pear: 

Angels  speak  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost;  wherefore  they 
speak  the  words  of  Christ.    (2  Nephi  32:3.) 

And  again: 

For  when  a  man  speaketh  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  carrieth  it  unto  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 
(2  Nephi  33:1.) 

A  man  is  fearfully  and  wonderfully  made.  In  this  earthen  vessel 
are  heavenly  treasures — an  immortal  spirit  of  which  God  is  the  Father, 
the  immortal  Priesthood  and  the  immortal  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Surely 
we  ought  not  to  defile  the  temple  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  using  things  which 
our  Father  hath  forbidden. 

Quite  recently  one  of  the  foremost  captains  of  British  industry  vis- 
ited Canada,  and  in  the  course  of  a  public  address  gave  this  forceful 
admonition:  "Do  not  think,"  he  said,  "that  education  weans  you  from 
the  spiritual  law."  He  was,  of  course,  referring  to  education  in  a  broad 
sense,  to  the  schooling  we  receive  in  the  University  of  Life.  But  when 
the  spiritual  law  is  subordinated  to  the  selfish  plans  and  feelings  of  men, 
misery  steps  in.  If  the  spiritual  law  were  dominant  in  the  hearts  of  men 
there  would  be  no  wars.  With  few  exceptions  every  war  has  been  "a 
rich  man's  war  and  a  poor  man's  fight."  It  is  said  that  three-fourths  of 
the  men  who  fought  in  the  Confederate  Army  never  owned  a  slave. 

President  Brigham  Young  called  Karl  G.  Maeser,  the  great  educa- 
tor, to  go  to  Provo  to  organize  and  conduct  an  academy  to  be  established 
in  the  name  of  the  Church — a  Church  school.  Before  leaving  for  Provo 
to  start  his  work  he  went  to  President  Young  and  said :  "Have  you  any 
instructions  to  give  me  ?" 

The  President  looked  steadily  forward  for  a  few  moments,  as  though 
in  deep  thought,  then  said:  "Brother  Maeser,  I  want  you  to  remember 
that  you  ought  not  to  teach  even  the  alphabet  or  the  multiplication  tables 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


99 


without  the  Spirit  of  God.  That  is  all.  God  bless  you.  Goodbye."  That 
was  Dr.  Maeser's  guiding  star.  By  that  spirit  he  reached  the  hearts  and 
touched  the  lives  of  thousands  for  good  and  brought  them  into  that  true 
idealism — the  right  of  the  spiritual  law  to  be  uppermost  in  the  hearts  of 
men. 

The  work  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  wonderful.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  said :  "You  might  as  well  baptize  a  bag  of  sand  as  a  man  if  not 
done  in  view  of  the  remission  of  sins  and  getting  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Bap- 
tism by  water  is  but  half  a  baptism,  and  is  good  for  nothing  without  the 
other  half — that  is,  the  baptism  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  The  regenerating 
and  cleansing  power  of  the  Spirit  is  a  blessing  from  heaven. 

Jesus  Christ  tells  us  that  "whatsoever  ye  would  that  men  should  do  to 
you,  do  ye  even  so  to  them."  We  are  told  to  rise  above  all  carnal  desires, 
to  walk  uprightly,  conquering  self,  which  will  give  us  the  testimony  that 
we  are  pleasing  God.  But  how  can  men  do  these  things  without  that 
greater  power  of  righteousness  in  their  souls  that  the  Holy  Ghost  brings 
to  them ;  that  great  regenerating  force  which  enables  them  to  cast  from 
them  lust,  evil  thoughts,  and  the  thought  of  doing  things  that  will  hurt 
their  fellow  creatures?  This  great  strength,  the  powerful  operation  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  will  make  one  shake  at  the  very  appearance  of  evil. 

There  is  another  office  of  the  Holy  Ghost:  He  will  guide  into  all 
truth.   The  Lord  Jesus  said : 

Howbeit  when  he,  the  Spirit  of  truth,  is  come,  he  will  guide  you 
into  all  truth:  for  he  shall  not  speak  of  himself;  but  whatsoever  he  shall 
hear,  that  shall  he  speak ;  and  he  will  show  you  things  to  come. 

He  shall  glorify  me ;  for  he  shall  receive  of  mine,  and  shall  shew  it 
unto  you. 

And  again  he  said : 

But  the  Comforter,  which  is  the  Holy  Ghost,  whom  the  Father  will 
send  in  my  name,  he  shall  teach  you  all  things,  and  bring  all  things  to  your 
remembrance,  whatsoever  I  have  said  unto  you. 

I  hope  that  every  man  in  this  vast  congregation  will  bear  in  mind 
this  holy  truth  so  that  when  he  returns  to  his  home  this  great  Remem- 
brancer will  bring  to  his  heart  and  to  his  mind,  in  the  moment  of  his 
need,  the  instructions  he  has  received  from  this  pulpit  by  the  servants  of 
the  Lord. 

"He  will  guide  you  into  all  truth."  What  is  truth  ?  "And  truth  is 
knowledge  of  things  as  they  are,  and  as  they  were,  and  as  they  are  to 
come."  What  a  broad,  comprehensive  definition  of  truth  the  Lord  gives ! 
And  because  we  are  guided  into  all  truth  by  that  infallible  guide,  the  Com- 
forter, we  hold  dear  to  our  hearts  these  great  fundamental  principles: 
The  divine  parentage  and  the  mission  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  his 
crucifixion  and  divine  atonement,  the  glorious  resurrection,  eternal 
life,  the  eternity  of  the  marriage  covenant, — all  of  which  bring  forth 
joys  inexpressible,  the  unspeakable  gifts  of  God,  manifested  to  our  souls 
by  the  Holy  Spirit. 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

The  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith : 

Yea,  behold,  I  will  tell  you  in  your  mind  and  in  your  heart,  by  the 
Holy  Ghost,  which  shall  come  upon  you  and  which  shall  dwell  in  your 
heart. 

Now,  behold,  this  is  the  spirit  of  revelation;  behold,  this  is  the  spirit 
by  which  Moses  brought  the  children  of  Israel  through  the  Red  Sea  on  dry 
ground. 

The  Holy  Ghost  is  an  infallible  witness  that  God  is  no  respecter  of 
persons.  Stake  presidents,  bishops  and  all  officers  in  the  Church  may 
have  for  their  guidance  and  direction  in  the  duties  with  which  they  are 
entrusted  this  blessed  spirit  of  inspiration,  so  that  they  will  hear  behind 
them  a  voice,  "This  is  the  way,  walk  ye  in  it,  when  ye  turn  to  the  right 
hand  or  when  ye  turn  to  the  left." 

The  Holy  Ghost  is  the  genius  of  the  Holy  Priesthood.  Remove 
from  this  body  of  men,  clothed  with  this  power,  dispossess  them,  if  that 
were  possible  of  the  guiding  influence  of  the  spirit  of  revelation  and  they 
would  be  as  unproductive  in  the  ministry  as  the  dry  sand  on  the  seashore. 

The  spirit  of  revelation  directs  the  leaders  of  the  Church  in  the  ap- 
pointment of  officers.  They  pray  to  the  Lord.  "Thou,  Lord,  which 
knowest  the  hearts  of  all  men,  shew  whether  of  these  two  thou  hast  chos- 
en." The  Lord  is  the  searcher  of  the  heart.  He  knows  the  qualifications, 
the  most  secret  purposes  and  intentions  and  dispositions  of  all  men.  Every 
man  whom  we  have  sustained  by  our  vote  this  afternoon,  in  the  posi- 
tion to  which  he  has  been  appointed,  that  man,  I  testify,  has  been  chosen 
by  the  spirit  of  revelation,  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  which,  as  I  have  stated  is 
the  genius  of  the  Priesthood.  While  this  spirit  remains  in  the  Church— 
and  it  will  remain  forever — we  need  not  be  afraid  that  we  will  be  led 
astray,  for  God  loves  us.  He  loves  the  men  whom  he  has  appointed  and 
he  will  move  upon  them,  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  to  select  men  whom  he  has 
chosen  to  be  overseers  of  the  flock,  "to  feed  the  Church  of  God." 

The  Holy  Ghost  is  the  testimony  of  Jesus.  "No  man,"  said  the 
Apostle  Paul,  "can  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord,  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 
The  Savior  declared  that  "the  kingdom  of  God  cometh  not  with  observa- 
tion," not  by  external  show,  for  the  world  is  deceived  by  outward  orna- 
ment. "Man  looketh  on  the  outward  appearance,  but  the  Lord  looketh 
on  the  heart." 

When  the  Savior  of  the  world  stood  before  that  cruel  judge,  Pontius 
Pilate,  and  Pilate,  in  a  sneering  manner,  addressed  this  question  to  the 
Savior,  "What  is  truth?"  the  embodiment  of  truth  was  before  him. 
Truth  personified  was  there.  But  Pontius  Pilate  could  not  recognize  the 
truth.  Why?  Because  "the  kingdom  of  God  cometh  not  with  observa- 
tion." 

"Except  a  man  be  born  again,"  said  Jesus  Christ,  "he  cannot  see  the 
kingdom  of  God,"  and,  "Except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit, 
he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God."  It  has  been  said  by  a  philos- 
opher, that  the  eye  sees  what  the  mind  brings  it  the  power  to  see.  The 
talented  artist,  the  organist  who  presides  at  the  console  of  this  world 
famous  Tabernacle  organ,  reads  the  music  and  translates  it  into  wonder- 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


101 


f  ul  harmonies.  I  can  see  the  notes  as  well  as  he  can  but  I  cannot  interpret 
them  because  the  power  is  not  in  my  mind.  I  am  not  a  musician.  This 
organist  has  acquired  this  technical  training.  He  sees  what  the  mind 
gives  him  the  power  to  see  and  interprets  the  written  notes  into  this  beau- 
tiful melody  and  heavenly  music  which  we  have  enjoyed  at  this  confer- 
ence. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  have  the  Holy  Ghost  in  their  hearts.  John 
Wesley  rose  to  a  great  height  of  inspiration  when  he  said :  "We  through 
the  Holy  Ghost  can  witness  better  things."  Because  we  have  the  gift  of 
the  Spirit  we  can  behold  all  the  wonderful  truths  of  the  Gospel.  We 
know  the  kingdom  of  God  is  on  the  earth.  Any  man  that  has  the  Com- 
forter will  never  deny  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  in- 
spired, but  he  will  revere  it  for  the  Lord  directed  the  men  who  wrote 
that  glorious  instrument. 

Jesus  asked  his  disciples,  saying,  Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of 
man  am? 

And  they  said,  Some  say  thou  art  John  the  Baptist ;  some,  Elias ;  and 
others,  Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets. 

He  saith  unto  them,  But  whom  say  ye  that  I  am? 

And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said,  Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
the  living  God. 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon-Bar- 
jona;  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father 
whiich  is  in  heaven. 

And  I  say  unto  thee,  That  thou  art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  I  will 
build  my  church;  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it.  (Mat- 
thew 16:13-18.) 

Brethren  and  sisters,  may  I  in  humility  and  in  the  spirit  of  testi- 
mony, declare  in  the  fear  of  God,  and  in  the  presence  of  angels,  for  I  be- 
lieve there  are  beings  here  from  the  other  world  listening  to  what  we  are 
saying,  that  I  believe  with  all  my  heart  and  know  that  this  Church  is 
built  upon  the  rock  of  revelation,  and  I  testify  to  you,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  that  he  was 
a  great  revelator  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  to  deliver  unto  mankind  the 
glorious  truths  of  the  Gospel. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  TESTIMONY 

Joesph  Smith,  an  apostle  of  Jesus  Christ,  through  whose  instrumen- 
tality the  Lord  established  his  Church  upon  the  earth  for  the  last  time, 
thus  testifies  of  the  resurrected  Christ : 

And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him ;  That  He  lives ! 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the 
voice  bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father. 

Joseph  sealed  the  truth  of  his  noble  testimony  by  his  death. 

I  testify,  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
by  the  spirit  of  revelation,  to  lead  and  to  guide  this  people.  The  intro- 
duction of  this  Church  Welfare  movement  has  already  increased  faith. 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

It  has  decreased  selfishness.  It  has  increased  the  portion  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  which  God  has  given  to  his  people. 

May  we  sustain  our  President,  his  counselors,  and  all  the  leaders  of 
the  Church.  May  we  sustain  the  rank  and  file  of  our  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  praise  God  that  this  blessed  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  spirit  of 
revelation,  shines  gloriously  in  this  Church,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  trust  I  may  be  permitted  to  refer  to  my  observations  at  the  last 
April  Conference  (1937),  and  to  reaffirm  what  I  then  said,  in  the  lan- 
guage in  which  I  then  said  it.  I  made  then  and  make  now  no  prediction. 
I  merely  gave  by  way  of  admonition  the  benefit  of  what  many  responsible 
men  of  affairs  were  then  saying.  In  so  far  as  I  am  advised,  these  men 
have  not  changed  their  minds.  In  my  own  view,  for  what  it  may  be 
worth,  conditions  appear  to  me  to  be  in  no  better  way. 

PROFITABLE  INVESTMENTS  ENCOURAGED 

After  that  Conference  people  wrote  asking  if  they  should  sell  this 
or  that  property  which  they  held.  They  were  told  I  had  offered  no 
trading  or  marketing  advice,  no  advice  about  selling  or  buying,  but 
warned  against  speculation,  that  is,  gambling.  Others  wrote  asking 
if  they  should  run  in  debt  for  this  or  that  purpose. 

To  the  latter  it  was  replied  that  the  Church  had  always  counselled 
against  running  in  debt,  that  this  seemed  still  sound  counsel,  and  that  if 
it  were  ever  wisely  to  be  disregarded,  it  would  be  in  connection  with  the 
buying  of  a  home,  or  a  farm,  or  stocking  a  ranch,  or  for  carrying  on 
some  line  of  business.  The  suggestion  was  added  that  even  in  such  cases 
the  whole  proposal  should  be  carefully  gone  into  so  as  to  make  as  sure  as 
might  be  that  the  inves'tment  to  be  made  would  be  profitable. 

BORROWING  BRINGS  BURDENS 

I  should  like  now  to  talk  about  that  question  of  debt  a  little  more. 
I  shall  say  nothing  new.  Everybody  knows  the  things  I  shall  mention. 
My  only  excuse  for  naming  them  is  that  sometimes  some  of  us  forget 
what  should,  in  wisdom,  be  remembered.  What  I  shall  say  will  not  so 
much  concern  business  men  who  are  supposed  to  know  when  and  how 
to  borrow.  I  am  speaking  to  the  great  bulk  of  us  who  have  little  or  no 
business  training  and  experience,  and  perhaps  not  too  much  business 
ability.  I  belong  with  this  bulk  and  have  had  a  chastening  experience 
in  debt. 

It  is  a  rule  of  our  financial  and  economic  life  in  all  the  world  that 
interest  is  to  be  paid  on  borrowed  money.  May  I  say  something  about 
interest  ? 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  103 

Interest  never  sleeps  nor  sickens  nor  dies ;  it  never  goes  to  the  hos- 
pital; it  works  on  Sundays  and  holidays;  it  never  takes  a  vacation;  it 
never  visits  nor  travels ;  it  takes  no  pleasure ;  it  is  never  laid  off  work 
nor  discharged  from  employment ;  it  never  works  on  reduced  hours ;  it 
never  has  short  crops  nor  droughts ;  it  never  pays  taxes ;  it  buys  no  food ; 
it  wears  no  clothes;  it  is  unhoused  and  without  home  and  so  has  no 
repairs,  no  replacements,  no  shingling,  plumbing,  painting,  or  white- 
washing; it  has  neither  wife,  children,  father,  mother,  nor  kinfolk  to 
watch  over  and  care  for;  it  has  no  expense  of  living;  it  has  neither 
weddings  nor  births  nor  deaths ;  it  has  no  love,  no  sympathy ;  it  is  as  hard 
and  soulless  as  a  granite  cliff.  Once  in  debt,  interest  is  your  companion 
every  minute  of  the  day  and  night;  you  cannot  shun  it  or  slip  away 
from  it ;  you  cannot  dismiss  it ;  it  yields  neither  to  entreaties,  demands, 
or  orders ;  and  whenever  you  get  in  its  way  or  cross  its  course  or  fail 
to  meet  its  demands,  it  crushes  you. 

So  much  for  the  interest  we  pay.  Whoever  borrows  should  under- 
stand what  interest  is ;  it  is  with  them  every  minute  of  the  day  and  night. 

STATISTICS  ON  FARM  MORTGAGES 

As  to  running  in  debt  to  buy  a  farm,  particularly  for  the  greater 
part  of  the  purchase  price,  or  for  any  considerable  loan  on  a  farm,  I 
should  like  to  give  you  the  following  facts. 

During  the  recent  depression  a  great  insurance  company  had  to 
foreclose  on  farm  property  which  had  been  mortgaged  to  it  for  some 
$65,000,000.  The  presumed  actual  value  of  these  foreclosed  lands  was 
more  than  $100,000,000,  which  is  approximately  the  value  of  all  the 
farm  lands  of  the  state  of  Utah.  The  lands  foreclosed  were  among  the 
richest  farming  lands  in  this  country. 

After  the  company  acquired  the  lands,  it  wrote  them  down  about 
10  per  cent  of  the  estimated  actual  value,  so  that  they  now  stand  on  the 
books  at  about  $55,000,000. 

The  net  profit  for  last  year  on  all  these  lands  taken  together  was 
3.03  per  cent  on  the  written  down  value  of  $55,000,000.  This  would 
be  equal  to  about  1.6  per  cent  on  the  full  value  as  of  the  date  of  mortgage. 

The  very  large  amount  involved  and  the  location  of  the  farms  would 
seem  to  indicate  that  this  is  a  fair  example  of  the  returns  on  the  better 
farm  lands  of  the  country. 

May  I  suggest  to  you  farmers  and  would-be  farmers  that  you  can 
hardly  hope  to  borrow  money,  relatively  large  sums  of  money,  at  5 
per  cent  or  3  per  cent  or  even  2  per  cent  and  then  pay  out,  principal 
and  interest,  in  an  enterprise  that  will  net  you  only  1.6  per  cent.  That 
is  the  simplest  mathematics. 

EASY  MONEY  NOT  A  BLESSING 

Let  me  say  in  passing  that  it  seems  to  me  the  worst  curse  the  farmer 
has  ever  had — worse  than  pests,  or  drouths,  or  frosts,  or  even  poor 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  •  Third  Da} 

markets — is  the  easy  money  which  has  been  thrown  in  his  path.  What 
the  farmer  needs  is  not  easy  money  but  good,  profitable  markets. 

These  same  principles  hold  good  in  all  enterprises  of  all  kinds. 

I  should  like  also  to  say  something  about  long  time  debts,  say  20 
or  30  years,  for  remodeling  and  improving  homes.  I  am  not  unfamiliar 
with  the  stock  arguments  and  reasoning  used  to  support  this  kind  of 
borrowing.  But  we  must  fully  consider  this:  Any  improvement  such 
as  bathrooms,  modern  heating  and  refrigerating  plants,  and  the  like, 
will,  in  the  course  of  ten  years,  probably  be  old,  out  of  style,  and  largely 
obsolete.  If  the  family  is  the  ordinary  one,  they  will  at  the  end  of  ten 
years  clamor  for  new,  up-to-date  furnishings,  for  another  and  modern 
remodeling.  When  that  times  comes  the  family  will  have  to  realize  that 
it  must  go  on  paying  principal  and  interest  for  another  ten  or  twenty 
years  on  the  worn  bath  tub  and  basin,  the  stained  and  cracked  kitchen 
sink,  the  smoky  furnace,  and  all  the  rest.  This  assumes,  of  course,  that 
we  have  been  able  to  keep  up  our  payments  for  the  first  ten  years  and 
have  not  lost  the  whole  property  before  that  time,  both  what  we  put  into 
the  house  as  well  as  the  house  itself. 

INSTALLMENT  BUYING  DISCOURAGED 

I  say  this  notwithstanding  that  in  my  view  no  home  is  too  good, 
no  comfort  too  great,  no  luxury  too  rich  for  the  very  humblest  family 
that  can  afford  them ;  but  for  the  least  essential  comforts  and  for  all 
the  luxuries,  let  me  urge  you  to  pay  as  you  go. 

I  wish  to  add  something  on  installment  buying — that  popular  method 
of  running  in  debt  for  things  and  paying  for  them  while  you  wear  them 
out.  Installment  buying  is  a  twin  brother  of  longtime  loans  for  remodel- 
ing and  furnishings.  A  part  of  a  successful  installment  plan  is  a  very 
high,  usually  hidden  rate  of  interest. 

I  know  that  in  speaking  of  this  I  am  treading  on  debatable  ground. 
However,  I  feel  something  might  wisely  be  said  about  it  by  way  of 
caution, 

In  1929  it  has  been  estimated  that  installment  purchases  amounted 
to  6.5  billions  of  dollars.  Dr.  Wilford  L.  White,  chief  of  the  marketing 
division  of  the  Bureau  of  Foreign  and  Domestic  Commerce,  is  quoted 
as  saying  that  "installment  contracts  entered  into  during,  or  immediately 
prior  to  1929  contributed  to  the  last  depression." 

Statisticians  say  that  in  1935  there  were  3.6  billions  of  dollars  of 
installment  purchases ;  for  1936  the  estimates  run  from  4.5  billions  of 
dollars  to  13.5  billions  of  dollars;  for  1937  installment  purchases  have 
been  estimated  at  better  than  5  billions  of  dollars. 

The  system  has  been  defended  as  justifying  itself  "by  providing 
the  luxuries  of  yesterday  for  families  of  limited  incomes  today  by 
allowing  those  families  to  purchase  such  goods  by  pledging  part  of  their 
future  earnings." 

Its  value  has  been  appraised  in  this  language:  "It  encourages  pro- 
duction of  luxury  goods,  thus  reducing  the  consumption  of  necessaries. 
It  promotes  extravagance,  based  on  the  chances  of  continuing  and  rising 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  105 

incomes,  and  thus  increases  stringency  at  a  time  when  trade  is  shrinking. 
It  creates  a  body  of  debt  that  stands  in  part  for  something  already 
consumed.  It  leads  to  over-production  of  luxury  goods,  and,  like  mone- 
tary inflation,  leads  to  a  condition  which  requires  for  its  maintenance 
larger  doses  of  the  same  stimulant,  shown  by  its  extension  to  articles 
which  depreciate  rapidly." 

A  British  economist  affirms:  "It  has  done  much  harm  in  America; 
it  has  been  drastically  limited  in  many  parts  of  Europe ;  it  is  the  enemy 
of  real  thrift ;  it  is  most  tempting  to  the  least  provident." 

To  buy  on  the  installment  plan  means  to  mortgage  your  future 
earnings.  If  through  sickness  or  death,  or  through  loss  of  work,  the 
earnings  cease,  the  property  bought  is  lost  together  with  what  has  been 
put  into  it. 

I  venture  one  suggestion, — until  times  become  more  certain,  the 
ordinary  family  will  do  well  to  purchase  by  installment  only  the  actual 
necessaries  of  life,  leaving  the  luxuries  to  be  bought  as  they  can  be  paid 
for  when  purchased. 

I  shall  not  attempt  to  draw  a  line  between  necessities  and  luxuries, 
beyond  saying  that  an  artisan  or  mechanic  who  can  ride  to  work  on  the 
train  or  street  car  would  hardly  be  justified  in  buying  an  airplane  for 
that  purpose  on  the  installment  plan ;  or  would  a  farmer  already  owning 
a  cow  pony  to  go  to  the  pasture  for  the  cows  be  justified  in  buying  an 
automobile  on  the  installment  plan  to  be  used  for  the  same  purpose. 

I  can  only  mention  here,  again  by  way  of  caution,  another  con- 
tributing element  of  danger  in  our  economic  life,  that  is,  those  seasonal, 
crop,  or  other  short  term  financings  which  unwisely  base  operation  for 
future  profits  on  borrowed  money. 

TAX-PAYERS  MUST  MEET  PUBLIC  DEBTS 

If  I  might  be  pardoned,  I  should  like  to  add  another  word  about  two 
closely  related  subjects  which  I  have  mentioned  or  referred  to  at  almost 
every,  if  not  every,  Conference  since  April,  1933 ;  I  refer  to  the  enormous 
expenditures  of  the  people's  money  and  to  the  ever-growing  feeling  and 
belief  that  a  great  group  of  the  people  can  live  off  the  public  without 
working. 

I  should  like  to  say  again  that  neither  the  State  nor  the  Federal 
Government  has  any  funds  except  only  such  funds  as  it  obtains  from  the 
people.  Neither  of  them  has  anywhere  a  great  pile  of  gold  to  which  it 
can  go  for  its  money.  You  taxpayers  must  furnish  it  all;  and  every 
citizen  is  a  taxpayer,  either  by  direct  or  indirect  taxation.  Whenever 
governments  borrow,  they  borrow  from  the  taxpayers  who  must  pay 
back  or  repudiate.  To  pay  back  large  borrowings  causes  great  hardship 
and  burdening  sacrifices ;  to  repudiate  brings  economic  and  sometimes 
political  chaos. 

CHURCH  EXPENDITURES  CAREFULLY  HANDLED 

Some  of  our  own  members  seem  to  be  thinking  that  the  Church  too 
has  a  pile  of  gold.    It  has  not.    All  the  Church  has  is  the  moderate 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Tliird  Day 

income  it  receives  from  investments  it  has  made  out  of  the  savings 
from  your  past  contributions,  and  the  tithing  and  donations  which  you 
faithful  members — usually  not  the  critics  and  fault-finders — make  for 
the  support  of  the  work.  You  have  had  a  report  as  to  how  that  money 
has  been  spent  during  the  past  year.  I  assure  you  there  are  no  secret  or 
hidden  expenditures.  All  are  recorded  and  all  audited.  The  Church 
does  not  have  one  cent  to  be  spent  by  any  one  for  any  purpose  except 
upon  an  accounting  made  after  the  expenditure  is  made  under  an  au- 
thority given  for  the  expenditure.  May  I  say  here,  the  Church  is  not 
in  debt ;  none  of  its  property  is  mortgaged ;  none  of  its  security  pledged. 

Now,  as  to  the  other  point, — the  living  of  one  large  group  without 
work  on  the  industry,  thrift,  and  sacrifice  of  the  rest  of  the  people. 
I  say  again  this  is  virtual  slavery  for  those  who  furnish  the  livelihood 
for  the  idlers.  I  know  very  well  I  shall  be  accused  of  being  harsh, 
cruel,  unsympathetic.  I  am  not.  But  I  consider  the  welfare  of  the 
whole  people  as  superior  to  the  comfortable  or  luxurious  idleness  of 
the  part. 

To  this  kind  of  expenditure  belong  these  old  age  gratuities  or 
doles,  which,  to  salve  somebody's  conscience,  are  called  pensions.  I 
mention  this  matter  because  it  is  growing  to  such  large  proportions  and 
because  it  will  have  such  a  far-reaching  and  destructive  effect  upon  the 
character  of  the  people,  young  as  well  as  old. 

I  may  begin  by  saying  these  are  not  properly  pensions,  a  term  which 
has  always  implied  one  or  both  of  two  things:  Either  a  conspicuous 
service  performed  for  all  the  people  which  merits  from  the  people  a 
special  recognition  upon  infirmity  from  age  or  otherwise,  or  a  plan  by 
which  the  pensioner  himself  has  contributed  to  the  building  of  the  pension 
fund  he  receives.  These  old  age  pensions  so-called  have  neither  of  these 
elements. 

Where  these  gratuities  are  honestly  due  under  the  law  there  is  no 
legal  objection  to  taking  them.  But  I  warn  you  who  take  them  not  to 
count  too  much  upon  them  for  they  cannot  continue  to  be  paid  in- 
definitely. Furthermore,  where  these  gratuities  are  obtained  by  falsifying 
the  true  condition,  by  hiding  property,  by  deeding  it  away  in  order  to 
qualify  for  the  dole,  or  by  using  any  device  to  hide  or  distort  the  real 
situation,  this  is  downright  dishonesty. 

I  honor  and  respect  old  age.  I  would  not  see  it  suffer  from  want, 
nor  from  disease  that  can  be  helped.  It  is  entitled  to  every  care,  to 
every  act  of  kindness,  to  every  loving  caress  which  a  grateful  community 
and  a  devoted  family  can  give. 

I  have  every  sympathy  with  age.  I  know  the  difficulties  which  age 
has  in  fitting  into  modern,  economic  life.  I  have  had  many  matured, 
outstanding  men  come  to  me  in  New  York  seeking  work.  Some  had 
been  discharged  from  jobs  they  had  worked  up  to  during  a  long  life 
of  service.  The  depression  had  replaced  them  with  young  men  who  had 
more  endurance  and  who  would  work  for  less  money.  In  America  at 
least  the  human  wastage  in  the  depression  was  far  greater  than  the 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


107 


human  wastage  of  the  World  War.  The  old  man  out  of  work  is  one  of 
the  most  pathetic,  heart-tearing  tragedies  of  today. 

Some  plan  must  be  devised  that  shall  make  certain  that  no  aged 
person  shall  be  cold  or  go  hungry  or  unclad.  But  the  prime  responsi- 
bility for  supporting  an  aged  parent  rests  upon  his  family,  not  upon 
society.  Ours  is  not  a  socialistic  or  communistic  state,  where  the  people 
are  mere  vassals  to  be  driven  about  as  animals  from  one  corral  to  another. 
We  are  freemen.  So  still  with  us  the  family  has  its  place  and  its 
responsibilities  and  duties,  which  are  God-given.  The  family  which 
refuses  to  keep  its  own  is  not  meeting  its  duties.  When  an  aged  parent 
has  no  family  or  when  the  family  is  itself  without  means,  then  society 
must,  as  a  matter  of  merest  humanity,  come  to  the  rescue.  This  is 
perfectly  clear. 

But  it  is  a  far  cry  from  this  wise  principle  to  saying  that  every 
person  reaching  a  fixed  age  shall  thereafter  be  kept  by  the  state  in  idleness. 
Society  owes  to  no  man  a  life  of  idleness,  no  matter  what  his  age.  I  have 
never  seen  one  line  in  Holy  Writ  that  calls  for,  or  even  sanctions  this. 
In  the  past  no  free  society  has  been  able  to  support  great  groups  in 
idleness  and  live  free. 

CHURCH  WELFARE  WORK 

I  wish  in  closing  to  say  a  few  words  about  our  Church  Welfare 
Work.  You  have  heard  a  detailed  report  about  its  work.  It  has  been 
operating  for  two  years  only.  Behind  it  is  merely  the  purely  voluntary 
contribution  by  Church  members,  some  767,000  men,  women,  and  chil- 
dren, and  some  others  who  have  out  of  a  love  for  humanity  made  also 
gratuitous  contributions. 

Of  this  number  of  Church  members  more  than  172,000  made  cash 
voluntary  gifts  in  addition  to  their  tithing  and  other  contributions  during 
1937.  This  means  that  as  much  as  60  per  cent  of  the  adult  membership 
of  the  Church,  both  male  and  female,  made  cash  contributions  to  this 
Plan  for  relieving  human  want.  This  in  itself  is  a  great  spiritual, 
Christian  achievement.  During  this  year  out  of  these  Fast  Offerings 
and  other  Church  revenues,  assistance  has  been  given  to  some  44,000 
persons. 

We  have  not  fully  met  our  problem,  but  this  is  only  our  second 
year.  We  feel  we  have  made  a  good  start.  We  have  gained  experience. 
We  are  conducting  a  Church-wide  budget  operation  based  upon  the 
reports  of  Bishops  as  to  their  estimated  needs  for  this  year  so  that  not- 
withstanding the  economic  difficulties  that  overhang  the  nation,  we  may 
more  nearly  solve  our  full  problem. 

The  Church  has  never  said  it  was  going  to  give  employment  to  all 
unemployed  Church  members.  It  has  said  it  would  do  what  it  could 
to  this  end.  It  has  done  so.  It  has  found  employment  for  some  6,000 
of  its  members,  which  may  represent  as  many  as  30,000  members  of 
families. 

The  Church  has  never  said  it  would  try  to  take  its  members  off 
governmental  work  projects.  But  the  Church  has  repeatedly  urged  every 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Church  member  employed  by  the  government  to  give  an  honest,  full 
day's  work  for  a  day's  pay. 

There  are  certain  elements  in  the  general  relief  situation  in  this 
interwest  region  where  the  bulk  of  our  members  live  which  are  not 
always  in  mind.  In  the  first  place,  at  least  half  of  the  population  in  this 
area  are  not  members  of  the  Church.  A  very  large  percentage  of  these 
non-members  are  engaged  in  industrial  occupations  which  are  particularly 
affected  by  the  present  economic  decline.  In  the  next  place,  for  one 
reason  or  another  not  now  necessary  to  consider,  it  seems  fairly  clear 
that  no  small  number  of  those  classed  as  Church  members  on  govern- 
mental rolls  are  either  not  on  the  Church  rolls  at  all  or  have  been  wholly 
inactive  for  years,  many  of  them  since  childhood.  Too  frequently  these 
persons  show  a  fixed  unwillingness  to  give  up  governmental  aid  for 
Church  relief.  The  basic  element  of  the  Church  program  is  work  in 
exchange  for  relief. 

The  first  effort  of  the  Church  has  been  consciously  directed  towards 
relieving  the  needs  of  the  worthy  members  of  the  Church  whose  prior 
activity  calls  for  consideration  from  the  whole  Church  membership. 
But  the  Church  has  not  turned  its  back  upon  the  others  ;  it  welcomes  their 
return  to  activity ;  it  will  look  out  for  them  just  as  rapidly  as  they  can  be 
reached. 

So,  all  in  all,  I  wish  to  tender  my  heartfelt  gratitude,  my  sincere 
congratulations,  to  the  Relief  Society — every  officer  and  woman  of  them 
— to  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  to  the  Priesthood  quorums,  to  the  General 
Committee,  to  the  Bishops  of  wards  and  Presidents  of  stakes,  to  regular 
and  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church,  stakes  and  wards,  to  our 
Church  periodicals,  to  every  man  and  woman  who  has  in  any  way 
helped  in  this  great  undertaking,  and  particularly  to  those  hundreds  who, 
somewhat  careless  of  their  duties  in  the  past,  have  come  forward  in 
these  critical  times  and  taken  on  this  new  work  fighting  as  veterans  against 
our  common  enemy — want.  We  welcome  you  brothers  and  sisters.  I 
know  that  to  every  man,  woman  and  child,  who  has  given  from  his 
abundance  or  who  has  offered  the  widow's  mite  to  help  his  less  for- 
tunate, suffering  brothers,  there  has  come  a  peace  and  joy  that  has 
carried  into  his  heart  more  of  unselfish  love  for  his  fellowman  than 
any  unlike  thing  he  has  ever  done.  They  have  realized  the  truth  of  the 
great  principle  announced  by  James : 

Pure  religion  and  undented  before  God  and  the  Father  is  this :  to 
visit  the  fatherless  and  widows  in  their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself 
unspotted  from  the  world. 

After  and  above  all,  as  was  stated  in  the  financial  report,  while 
the  Church  Welfare  aims,  of  course,  to  help  those  in  need,  its  real  purpose 
is  not  merely  to  substitute  Church  gratuities  for  others  furnished  by 
charitable  or  governmental  agencies  but  to  rebuild  the  characters  of  its 
members  and  to  promote  and  to  foster  the  patriotic,  civic,  and  spiritual 
qualities  of  the  people. 

Discoursing  in  the  Temple  on  the  second  day  of  the  week  of  the 


ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  TEW,  JR. 


109 


atoning  sacrifice,  Jesus  declared  the  fate  of  those  who  should  stand 
on  the  left  hand  at  the  day  of  judgment. 

Then  shall  he  say  also  unto  them  on  the  left  hand,  Depart  from  me, 
ye  cursed,  into  everlasting  fire,  prepared  for  the  devil  and  his  angels. 

For  I  was  an  hungered,  and  ye  gave  me  no  meat ;  I  was  thirsty,  and 
ye  gave  me  no  drink. 

I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took  me  not  in:  naked,  and  ye  clothed  me 
not;  sick,  and  in  prison,  and  ye  visited  me  not. 

Then  shall  they  also  answer  him,  saying,  Lord,  when  saw  we  thee 
an  hungered,  or  athirst,  or  a  stranger,  or  naked,  or  sick,  or  in  prison,  and 
did  not  minister  unto  Thee? 

Then  shall  he  answer  them,  saying,  Verily,  I  say  unto  you,  Inasmuch 
as  ye  did  it  not  to  one  of  the  least  of  these,  ye  did  it  not  to  me. 

And  these  shall  go  away  into  everlasting  punishment ;  but  the  right- 
eous into  life  eternal. 

The  resurrected  Christ,  breakfasting  the  seven  disciples  on  the 
shores  of  the  Sea  of  Tiberias  in  the  early  morning,  saith  unto  Peter 
thrice :  "Peter,  lovest  thou  me  ?"  Peter  thrice  replied,  "Yea,  Lord,  thou 
knowest  I  love  thee;"  and  Christ  thrice  commanded,  "Feed  my  sheep." 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit  of  God  Like 
a  Fire  is  Burning." 

ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  TEW,  JR. 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

Not  only  do  mission  presidents  preside  in  the  mission  field  without 
counselors,  but  usually  they  are  kept  on  the  anxious  seat  throughout  the 
conference  here.  I  am  thankful  for  this  opportunity  of  being  here  this 
afternoon.   I  am  thankful  to  President  Grant  for  calling  me  at  this  hour. 

Today  is  the  hundred  and  eighth  anniversary  of  the  organization  of 
this  Church.  All  day  I  have  been  looking  back,  in  my  mind,  to  that 
little  group  of  six  men  in  Fayette,  Seneca  County,  New  York,  in  the 
living  room  of  Peter  Whitmer,  where  this  Church  was  organized  a 
hundred  and  eight  years  ago.  In  a  way  I  have  tried  to  visualize  the 
progress,  the  expansion,  the  development,  the  power  and  the  influence 
this  Church  has  wielded  and  how  it  has  grown  during  this  century  of 
progress. 

On  the  30th  of  September,  1937,  I  noticed  the  following  quotation  in 
the  Deseret  News.  There  had  assembled,  in  this  city,  leaders  of  the 
Federal  Council  of  Churches  of  Christ  in  America.  They  adjourned 
on  the  30th  of  September,  with  this  conclusion : 

That  realism  must  replace  sentimentalism,  and  conviction  must  take 
the  place  of  emotionalism,  if  Christianity  is  to  be  employed  in  the  solution 
of  the  world's  ills. 

We  have  known  that  for  a  century  or  more.  If  there  is  any  one 
thing  in  the  world  that  this  Church  does  stand  for,  it  is  realism  and  not 
sentimentalism ;  conviction  and  not  emotionalism. 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  I  am 
called  to  preside  over  one  of  the  missions  of  this  Church.  I  rejoice  in 
the  young  men  and  young  women  who  are  sent  unto  us  in  the  mission 
fields.  They  are  outstanding  in  their  characters,  in  their  determination 
to  serve  the  Lord.  Their  testimonies  are  firm  and  steadfast.  They  have 
visions  of  what  they  want  to  do  and  where  they  want  to  go.  They 
carry  with  them  a  wonderful  influence.  I  bring  you,  fathers  and  mothers, 
their  greetings,  their  love,  their  affection,  and  their  regard  for  you.  They 
are  loyal  to  this  Church. 

I  feel  to  confess  today  that  as  far  as  I  am  concerned  I  am  in  perfect 
accord  with  the  leadership  of  this  Church,  with  the  principles  they  pro- 
claim. I  know,  as  you  know,  that  the  Savior  gave  us  the  key  of  testimony 
when  he  said,  that  if  a  man  will  do  the  will  of  the  Father  he  shall  know 
of  the  doctrine.  The  converse  of  that  is  also  true,  my  brothers  and 
sisters :  When  we  cease  to  do  the  will  of  the  Father,  we  lose  our  testi- 
monies of  the  Gospel  and  we  forget  the  doctrine.  When  we  begin  to 
compromise,  and  sift  out,  and  reject  certain  phases  of  the  Gospel,  we 
are  on  dangerous  ground. 

I  am  thankful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  membership  in  this 
Church,  which  has  stood  the  test  of  a  century  and  more  of  progress,  down 
to  this  particular  period  of  time.  I  want  to  bring  you  this  message,  and 
leave  it  with  you  today,  that  not  only  we  but  other  churches  recognize 
our  position  in  the  world. 

In  Fort  Wayne,  Indiana,  on  the  11th  day  of  November,  1937,  there 
was  announced,  by  the  Council  of  the  Methodist  Church  a  spiritual 
crusade  which  was  to  be  launched  among  their  members,  looking  toward 
a  revival  of  devotional  convictions.  The  thing  that  attracted  my  attention 
was  this :  The  crusade  will  begin  with  a  united  council,  on  the  further- 
ance of  faith  and  service,  to  be  held  in  Chicago.  The  focus  of  attention 
and  effort  will  be  upon  the'  rank  and  file  of  the  younger  generation. 
Bishop  Edgar  Blake,  of  the  Detroit  area,  announced :  "You  can't  build 
the  new  order  with  the  old  men,  men  whose  hearts  are  still  worshiping 
the  idols  that  are  falling  all  around  us." 

What  a  pity  it  is,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  after  a  century  of 
time  these  men  are  just  now  realizing  that  the  idols  that  they  have  wor- 
shiped for  so  many  centuries  are  beginning  to  fall,  and  that  the  young 
men  are  the  ones  on  whom  they  should  focus  their  attention.  As  a  matter 
of  fact  these  idols  began  to  fall  more  than  a  century  ago  when  the  Lord 
laid  the  axe  at  the  root  of  the  trees  of  false  teachings  in  the  Sacred  Grove. 

Thank  God  for  our  Mutual  Improvement  organization,  for  our 
Church  school  system.  Remember,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  con- 
servation of  the  youth  of  Zion  is  desired  far  above  reclamation. 

May  we  live  our  religion.  May  we  teach  our  boys  and  girls.  May 
the  work  of  the  Lord  progress  and  increase  until  it  fills  the  earth.  Let  us 
support  and  sustain  our  leaders,  our  prophets,  seers  and  revelators,  not 
only  with  our  hands  but  with  our  actions,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  BROADBENT 


111 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  BROADBENT 

President  of  the  North  Centred  States  Mission 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  realize  that  these  are  valuable  moments.  I 
come  to  you  with  the  greetings  of  ninety  glorious  youths  laboring  in  our 
mission.  I  have  met  them  all  within  the  month,  and  they  are  well,  happy, 
and  enjoying  their  labors. 

I  desire,  for  the  few  moments  given  to  me,  to  speak  of  a  phase  of 
missionary  life  which  has  not  been  touched  upon  by  my  fellow  associates 
of  the  mission  presidents. 

Recently  there  was  a  great  gathering  of  the  Ministerial  Association 
of  the  State  of  Minnesota,  in  the  city  of  St.  Paul.  They  spent  a  long 
half  day  upon  the  question  of  Mormonism.  Among  other  things  that 
they  presented  were  their  objections  to  such  glorious  messages  as  we 
have  just  listened  to  from  our  beloved  President  Clark,  as  being  non- 
religious,  but  as  being  "spiritualized  ethics."  They  took  exception  to  the 
wonderful  message  in  the  book  prepared  by  Dr.  F.  S.  Harris  and  his 
associate  editor,  "The  Fruits  of  Mormonism,"  because  it  was  prepared 
by  Mormons. 

They  took  grave  exceptions  to  the  most  recent  article  on  the  Mor- 
mon question  which  has  found  its  way  into  the  Encyclopedia  Britannica, 
because  Senator  Reed  Smoot  wrote  it,  and  it  was  not  publicized  that  he 
was  also  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  It  appeared 
that  everything  they  did  and  said  was  like  the  proverbial  "drowning  man 
grasping  for  a  straw."  They  also  made  very  much  of  the  fact  that  we 
are  over-advertised  in  our  Church  Security  Program. 

I  sat  in  this  building  two  years  ago,  and  I  recall  very  distinctly  that 
President  Grant  suggested  to  the  gallery  of  reporters  who  were  here: 
"We  want  no  word  published  from  this  meeting.  When  we  are  ready 
to  give  our  message  to  the  public  we  will  give  them  through  the  press 
our  position  on  this  matter,  and  we  will  add  to  it  as  we  desire  from 
time  to  time." 

As  this  gathering  of  the  ministerial  association  closed  its  report,  this 
was  the  concluding  paragraph:  (I  am  reading  from  their  own  published 
statement) 

In  the  interest  of  Christianity  and  Mormonism,  our  plea  is,  though 
not  formally  stated,  for  Protestant  people  to  inform  themselves  on  the  sub- 
ject of  Mormonism,  and  likewise  to  inform  themselves  on  the  principles 
of  their  own  faith,  for  only  then  can  an  intelligent  understanding  of  Mor- 
mon problems  be  effected. 

We  are  grateful  for  that  admonition  on.  the  part  of  that  great 
gathering  of  ministers. 

I  have  the  privilege  of  living  in  the  same  city,  as  the  headquarters 
of  our  mission,  where  one  of  the  greatest  national  authorities  on  temper- 
ance resides,  Dr.  W.  G.  Calderwood.  A  member  of  the  Minnesota  Tem- 
perance Organization  came  to  me  wanting  to  know  more  about  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  but  he  said :    "I  represent  one  of  the  great  insurance  com- 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

panies.  We  have  come  to  the  conclusion,  since  we  have  been  studying  for 
the  past  three  years,  that  from  eighty  to  ninety  per  cent  of  all  of  the 
automobile  accidents  are  caused  as  a  result  of  the  use  of  liquor.  We 
have  about  come  to  the  conclusion  that  we  can  offer  two  types  of  insur- 
ance and  give  those  who  are  total  abstainers  a  twenty-five  per  cent  better 
policy  than  those  who  are  users  of  liquor." 

One  of  the  finest  ladies  from  the  city  of  Minneapolis,  which  is  a  city 
of  five  hundred  thousand  population,  came  to  me  immediately  after  that 
meeting,  and  she  said :  "I  have  been  assigned,  by  my  Ladies'  Christian 
organization,  to  bring  to  them  the  message  of  Mormonism."  After  we 
studied  for  two  hours  or  more  she  said:  "This  is  such  a  magnificent 
message  that  I  am  sure  I  shall  have  to  come  again." 

Two  of  the  students  from  the  Social  Science  Department  of  the 
University  of  Minnesota  came  in  and  spent  the  greater  part  of  an  after- 
noon. Each  of  them  was  assigned  from  the  Social  Science  Department 
of  that  institution.  One  of  them  said :  "We  want  to  know  the  moti- 
vating influence  of  Mormonism."  The  other :  "It  is  my  mission  to  find 
out  about  the  organization  and  the  administration  of  the  Mormon 
Church."  When  I  had  spent  several  hours  with  them  they  were  totally 
astonished  to  find  that  they  had  only  gotten  a  very  small  fraction  of  the 
message  of  Mormonism,  as  we  are  teaching  it  to  the  world,  and  have 
been  for  the  past  hundred  years. 

While  I  was  touring  the  mission  recently  a  chief  of  four  thousand 
Indians  of  the  Fort  Peck  Reservation  came  to  me.  He  is  a  member  of 
the  Catholic  Church,  but  his  wife  is  a  Mormon.  Every  creed,  probably, 
that  can  be  found  in  America  is  represented  among  those  Indians.  He 
said :  "We  have  been  together ;  we  have  laid  aside  all  of  our  differences, 
political  and  religious,  and  we  have  definitely  come  to  the  conclusion  that 
no  one  can  help  us  or  will  help  us  unselfishly  in  our  problems,  except  as 
we  may  be  able  to  get  assistance  from  the  Mormon  people." 

The  banker  of  Wolf  Point,  Montana,  where  these  Indians  live,  made 
a  similar  request,  a  chief  business  man  likewise,  saying :  "We  are  holding 
certain  interests,  waiting  for  the  Mormons  to  come  and  assist  us,  for  we 
know,  through  studying  their  past  history,  that  they  will  treat  our  people 
honestly,  and  teach  them  how  to  get  the  most  value  from  the  soil. 

One  of  the  most  significant  things  that  has  come  out  of  that  particular 
gathering  of  ministers  was  a  request  from  the  editor  and  publisher  of  a 
paper  that  goes  to  all  Veterans.  He  requested  that  I  should  give  the 
Latter-day  Saint  message  for  his  Christmas  issue.  I  modified  a  previous 
message  of  the  First  Presidency,  and  brought  it  down  to  date  and  made 
it  local  in  touch,  and  sent  it  in.  I  was  very  much  surprised  to  find  that 
they  published  every  single  word,  a  column  and  a  half,  and  gave  my  name 
and  the  address  of  the  headquarters  of  the  mission. 

They  came  back  recently  and  I  gave  them  a  second  article  as  a  mes- 
sage f  or  Easter,  on  the  same  line,  emphasizing  "Peace  on  earth  and  good 
will  toward  men,"  and  love  of  fellow  men  rather  than  war  as  the  Easter 
spirit. 

I  was  requested,  over  the  phone,  by  a  director  or  manager  of  a  rail- 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  BROADBENT 


113 


road  publication,  known  as  "The  National  Railroad  Review,"  to  take 
space  with  them,  assisting  them  in  a  drive  for  greater  state  and  national 
security  from  the  standpoint  of  retirement.  The  principal  heading  of 
this  particular  issue,  was :  "The  Inadequacy  of  Pension,  as  we  have  it 
at  the  present  time." 

While  I  was  listening  and  thinking  of  the  attitude  of  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church,  and  our  people  generally,  I  determined  that  I  could  not 
represent  the  Church  in  joining  with  a  company  asking  that  we  shall  re- 
quire that  all  men  shall  be  forced  to  go  into  retirement  at  the  age  of 
sixty-five  and  may  retire  at  sixty.  The  thought  of  President  Grant's 
wonderful  definition  of  age,  came  to  me  while  I  still  held  the  phone,  and 
I  said :  "I  will  take  space,  and  will  send  the  message  in."  For  I  knew 
that  all  our  missionaries  are  receiving  concessions  from  the  railroad. 

I  read  from  that  particular  issue: 

AGE 

Age  is  a  quality  of  mind : 

If  your  dreams  you've  left  behind, 

If  hope  is  cold, 
If  you  no  longer  look  ahead, 
If  your  ambition's  fires  are  dead, 

Then  you're  old. 

But  if  from  life  you  take  the  best, 
And  if  in  Life  you  keep  the  zest, 

If  Love  you  hold ; 
No  matter  how  the  years  go  by, 
No  matter  how  the  birthdays  fly, 

You  are  not  old. 

Compliments  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 

of  Latter-day  Saints. 

3240  Park  Avenue,  Minneapolis. 

For  their  next  quarterly  issue,  they  said :  "We  gave  you  a  double 
space  for  your  last  article,  will  you  give  us  another  of  the  same  type?" 
I  expect,  when  I  return,  to  find  a  similar  one,  this  time  giving  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith's  definition  of  religion  and  salvation. 

God  is  blessing  us.  We  are  gloriously  happy  in  our  mission,  and 
the  Saints  and  Elders  send  greetings. 

May  the  Lord  continue  to  bless  and  prosper  our  eighty-two  year  old 
youthful  Prophet,  that  he,  with  his  associates,  inspired  leadership  of  the 
Church,  may  continue  to  guide  us  into  all  truth.  But  I  pray  more 
fervently — for  I  know  they  are  being  guided — I  pray  more  fervently 
for  me  and  you,  and  for  all  Israel,  that  we  shall  not  sell  our  birthright 
for  a  cigarette,  a  glass  of  beer,  a  cup  of  tea  or  coffee;  or  for  refusing 
to  make  the  world  understand  that  we  are  not  over-advertised  in  our 
great  Security  Program,  but  that  we  shall  rally  to  the  leadership  which 
is  ours  in  making  it  a  reality. 

God  grant  that  his  blessings  may  be  upon  us  all,  I  pray,  through 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6 


Third  Day 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

It  is  indeed  a  pleasure  to  be  back  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  and 
to  meet  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  partake  of  your  fine  friendliness, 
after  having  been  away  for  just  a  short  period. 

I  am  happy  to  bring  you  greetings  from  the  Saints  and  the  mission- 
aries in  the  Canadian  Mission,  and  to  tell  you  that  the  fine  young  people 
who  have  come  there  as  missionaries  are  well  and  happy,  and  doing  such 
a  splendid  and  outstanding  work  that  the  attention  of  the  people  of  the 
world  is  called  to  them.  It  is  not  uncommon  to  hear  people  say:  "I 
would  like  to  have  my  son  or  my  daughter  grow  up  to  be  like  those 
missionaries  that  you  have  among  you."  They  are  coming  to  us  better 
prepared,  with  earnestness  as  well  as  experience. 

I  pay  tribute  to  the  educational  system  of  Utah,  and  to  the  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church,  that  train  in  leadership.  I  was  interested  to  note 
that  half  of  the  missionaries  now  serving  in  the  Canadian  Mission  have 
had  one  or  two  years  college  training.  I  was  just  a  little  disappointed  to 
note  that  only  half  of  them  have  had  seminary  training.  I  have  noted 
that  the  additional  years  of  training,  and  direct  responsibility  in  leader- 
ship in  the  organizations  of  the  Church,  makes  them  more  efficient  mis- 
sionaries, and  brings  them  to  us  very  much  better  prepared. 

The  Lord  has  told  us  what  is  expected  of  the  missionary.  "A  mar- 
velous work,"  he  said,  "is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  children  of 
men.  Therefore,  O  ye  who  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye 
serve  him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength." 

As  missionaries,  we  realize  that  we  may  plant  and  we  may  cultivate 
and  we  may  water,  but  it  is  God  that  gives  the  increase.  Realizing  that 
it  is  our  responsibility  to  get  the  message  of  the  restored  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  before  the  people  in  the  clearest  and  best  way  possible,  we  have 
attempted  to  study  the  Gospel  thoroughly  to  prepare  ourselves,  and  then 
we  have  made  an  effort  to  reach  the  people  that  we  have  not  been  reach- 
ing heretofore. 

With  this  in  view  we  made  a  good-will  tour  of  the  Canadian  Mission, 
in  an  effort  to  meet  the  business  men  of  Canada.  We  were  successful 
in  arranging  meetings  with  many  social  clubs :  the  Rotary,  the  Kiwanis, 
the  Lions'  Club,  the  Kinsman's  Club,  the  Good  Will  and  Optimists' 
Club,  and  many  of  the  schools.  We  had  a  splendid  quartet  that  furnished 
the  music.  I  was  privileged  to  be  guest  speaker  in  most  of  those  clubs, 
and  was  given  the  opportunity,  for  thirty  or  forty  minutes,  of  explaining 
Utah  and  her  people,  and  the  reaction  was  much  more  favorable  than 
we  had  hoped  for.  In  the  course  of  the  tour  we  met  over  thirty  thousand 
people — representative  business  men  of  Canada — and  some  of  their 
reactions  were  remarkable. 

After  one  meeting  a  man  in  the  club  arose  and  said :  "Gentlemen, 
I  have  been  in  Salt  Lake  City.  I  have  been  in  that  historic  Tabernacle 
we  have  been  told  about.    I  know  that  what  has  been  said  about  that 


ELDER  HAROLD  W.  PRATT 


115 


great  building,  and  that  wonderful  mission  on  the  Temple  grounds,  and 
the  industry  and  friendliness  of  the  people  of  Utah,  is  true." 

We  had  such  reactions  throughout  the  long  tour.  We  discovered 
through  that  tour  that  the  people  of  the  world  are  not  irreligious,  but 
they  are  disappointed  in  finding  that  they  are  not  obtaining  help  for 
their  personal  lives  in  the  churches. 

I  read,  as  possibly  you  did,  in  the  January  number  of  the  Cosmo- 
politan, an  article  by  Dorothy  Giles,  entitled,  "The  Wise  Men  of  Science 
Come  to  the  Manger,"  in  which  she  said  that  Science  is  no  longer  posi- 
tively opposed  to  Religion,  but  is  seeking  diligently  to  understand  it. 
They  are  seeking  to  understand  the  Babe  of  Bethlehem,  what  it  signifies, 
and  its  great  power  over  humanity. 

"What  can  we  believe?"  she  said,  we  are  asking  of  Science,  and 
Science  briefly  replies :  "Religion  is  not  a  question  of  belief,  but  of 
experience.  No  matter  what  the  world  thinks  about  religious  experience, 
the  one  who  has  it  possesses  a  great  treasure  which  has  provided  him  with 
a  source  of  lif  e,  meaning  and  beauty,  and  which  has  given  a  new  splendor 
to  the  world  and  to  mankind.    He  has  peace." 

So  I  have  been  proud  to  belong  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  truly  "a  city  built  upon  a  hill."  The  eyes 
of  the  world  are  turned  toward  us,  and  those  who  have  visited  us  bring 
favorable  reports. 

I  am  happy  to  be  a  missionary,  and  as  I  think  of  the  hundred  and 
eight  years  of  progress  of  this  Church,  and  the  ideals  that  guided  those 
sturdy  pioneers,  that  neither  persecution  from  without  nor  dissension 
from  within,  nor  the  lure  of  gold,  nor  the  quest  of  land  could  turn  aside, 
I  am  happy  for  the  inheritance  I  have  in  the  Church. 

I  pray  that  our  Father  in  Heaven  may  continue  to  bless  us  as  a 
people,  that  our  industry,  our  love  for  the  principles  of  truth  and  right- 
eousness, our  brotherly  consideration,  and  this  great  fraternal  friendship 
that  has  grown  up  among  us,  may  continue ;  and  that  as  the  eyes  of  the 
world  are  turned  toward  us,  we  will  continue  to  be  the  great  missionary, 
for  the  thing  the  world  wants  today  is  a  religion  that  works  in  the  lives 
of  its  people  in  motivating  love,  in  building  character,  and  in  doing  the 
very  things  that  this  great  Church  has  done  for  us. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  that  we  may  do  our  part  in  this  great  work, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HAROLD  W.  PRATT 

President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  very  humble  in  occupying  your 
time  at  the  end  of  this  conference  session,  and  I  pray  for  your  faith  and 
prayers  while  I  may  occupy  this  position  for  a  few  moments. 

We  have  been  told,  and  we  realize  from  reading  the  signs  of  the 
times,  that  we  are  passing  through  a  dangerous  evolution,  or  I  should 
say,  revolution.  Perhaps  in  Mexico  we  see  more  closely  and  feel  more 
intensely  this  revolutionary  movement.  Things  are  happening  so  rapidly 
that  we  are  unable  to  keep  up,  or  to  foretell  what  may  be  the  next  step. 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Brother  Ballard,  in  his  talk,  drew  our  attention  to  the  fact  that  we 
are  of  Israel,  that  we  have  been  gathered  out  from  among  the  nations  of 
the  earth  for  a  glorious  purpose,  to  serve  as  a  city  set  upon  a  hill,  and  to 
guide  those  who  are  honest  in  heart  through  this  perilous  revolutionary 
period.  He  has  told  us  that  we  are  charged  with  taking  the  Gospel  to 
that  remnant  of  the  House  of  Israel  who  are  not  of  Ephraim. 

We,  in  Mexico,  have  that  charge  directly.  I  am  glad  to  report  to  you 
that  we  are  making  progress,  that  the  revolution  and  evolution  there 
going  on  is  indeed  the  work  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  preparing  that 
people  to  accept  the  blessings  that  have  been  promised  to  them  through 
their  forefathers. 

We  see  there,  however,  the  power  of  the  Evil  One  also  laboring 
and  struggling  to  win  souls  away  from  our  Heavenly  Father  and  from  his 
cause.  We  know  that  he  realizes  that  the  time  is  near  at  hand  when  the 
Gospel  will  be  restored  to  that  people,  and  that  he  is  making  every  at- 
tempt to  thwart  those  purposes  and  to  make  it  impossible  that  those  proph- 
ecies be  fulfilled. 

But  I  wish  to  bear  to  you  my  testimony  that  I  know,  as  I  know  that 
I  live,  that  this  Gospel  is  true,  that  it  has  been  restored  for  the  last  time, 
and  that  the  prophecies  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  made  will  be  ful- 
filled. He  is  doing  his  part.  He  is  preparing  the  way.  We,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  have  the  responsibility  of  carrying  out  our  part  also,  and  we 
can  do  this  only  by  accepting  and  adhering  to  the  instructions  given  by 
our  inspired  leaders,  even  those  instructions  that  we  have  here  received 
in  this  conference. 

I  plead  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  live  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, as  we  have  been  instructed  to  do ;  to  pay  your  tithes  and  offerings ; 
to  rally  around  the  welfare  work  administration,  to  support  it ;  to  dem- 
onstrate, with  your  lives  and  with  your  actions,  that  you  do  love  your 
Heavenly  Father  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  and  that 
you  love  your  neighbor  as  yourself ;  that  in  very  deed  we  do  become  and 
continue  to  be  what  we  are  charged  with  being, — a  light  unto  the  world, 
that  through  our  lives  and  our  good  works  men  may  come  to  glorify 
our  Father  which  is  in  heaven,  I  pray,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  MERRILL  D.  CLAYSON 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

I  bring  to  you  today  the  greetings  of  nineteen  thousand  Saints,  situ- 
ated in  sixty-eight  branches  and  ten  districts  in  the  Southern  States  Mis- 
sion. I  sincerely  trust  that  the  time  will  come  when  these  sixty-eight 
branches  may  be  christened  as  wards,  and  these  ten  districts  as  stakes  of 
Zion.  I  only  wish,  today,  that  more  of  our  people  might  be  here  to  enjoy 
the  spiritual  feast  that  this  conference  affords.  It  is  the  life-long  ambition 
of  many  of  these  worthy  Saints  to  have  the  opportunity,  some  day,  to 
come  to  this  great  gathering  and  enjoy  the  feast  that  you  people  receive 
here. 

I  am  happy  to  report  to  you  today  that  the  hundred  and  twenty-five 
missionaries  laboring  in  the  Southern  States  Mission  are  well  and  enjoy- 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN  117 


ing  their  labors.  I  appreciate  with  all  my  heart,  and  more  than  words 
can  tell,  the  opportunity  of  working  with  your  sons  and  your  daughters 
in  that  mission.  Together,  we  are  attempting  to  solve  the  problems 
that  are  presented  in  carrying  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  honest  in 
heart. 

I  am  grateful  that  a  humble  Mormon  Elder  delivered  a  Gospel  tract 
at  my  grandmother's  house  in  England,  brought  her  into  the  Church,  and 
thus  made  it  possible  for  me  to  be  born  here  in  the  land  of  Zion  and  enjoy 
the  wonderful  benefits  that  come  to  us  through  the  association  and  influ- 
ence of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Mormonism  does  more  for  its  members  than  any  other  force  in  all 
the  world  today.  I  often  think  that  we  do  not  appreciate  its  great  value, 
influence,  and  what  it  has  meant  to  us  in  our  lives.  If  we  were  stripped 
of  all  its  truths,  of  all  the  influences  that  it  has  contributed  to  our  char- 
acter and  lives  and  then  stand  off  to  one  side  and  see  what  is  left,  I  believe 
we  would  appreciate,  more  than  any  other  time  in  our  lives,  just  what 
Mormonism  has  meant  to  us. 

Too  often  people  look  at  Mormonism,  accept  two  or  three  of  its  prin- 
ciples that  do  not  conflict  with  their  philosophy  and  living,  and  think  that 
they  are  Mormons.  Others  look  upon  baptism  as  the  beginning  and  end 
of  their  religion.  Others  use  it  as  a  philosophy  to  ponder  over  in  their 
more  serious  moods  but  never  make  it  a  part  of  their  lives.  The  great 
blessings  that  come  to  us  come  through  the  acceptance  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  in  its  completeness.  I  am  sincerely  convinced  that  the  paths 
that  lead  to  health  and  happiness,  the  paths  that  lead  to  progress  and  the 
abundant  life,  are  paved  with  the  eternal  truths  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

It  is  my  testimony  to  you  people  today  that  Mormonism  is  a  greater 
builder  of  character  and  human  personality  than  all  the  philosophies  and 
man-made  religions  of  the  world.  God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  see  and 
understand  it  in  its  completeness,  and  live  it,  and  thus  bring  to  ourselves 
health,  happiness,  progress,  and  salvation,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

I  realize  that  the  time  I  spend  here  is  precious,  and  I  shall  attempt 
to  be  brief  as  possible. 

I  am  happy  to  bring  greetings  from  the  Saints  and  the  missionaries 
laboring  in  the  great  States  of  Texas  and  Louisiana.  We  have  over  six 
thousand  Saints  and  about  seventy-five  missionaries  who  are  diligently 
engaged  in  spreading  the  word  of  the  Lord  among  the  people  there.  We 
feel  that  we  are  making  definite  progress  in  most  respects,  and  that  people 
are  increasing  their  respect  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  we  are  welcome  to  be  heard  in  most  places  where  we  make  the 
effort. 

I  feel  it  is  a  great  privilege  to  labor  there  and  go  about  feeling  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  guiding  us,  taking  us  to  the  honest  in  heart.   The  ac- 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

complishments  of  these  fine  missionaries,  the  testimonies  and  blessings 
they  are  receiving  give  me  the  assurance  that  the  Lord  will  bless  those 
who  obey  him.  To  see  them  come  into  the  field,  humble,  untrained,  and 
sometimes  rough  in  their  ways,  then  to  watch  them  develop  so  rapidly 
that  they  can  confound  the  wise  and  teach  the  great,  is  an  inspiration  in- 
deed to  me. 

I  am  happy  for  those  young  men  and  women  you  have  sent  to  us. 
They  are  all  well.  I  should  make  one  exception.  We  have  one  in  the 
hospital  now,  but  he  is  doing  very  well.  Outside  of  that,  they  are  all  in 
good  health  and  happy.  And  we  have  some  old  missionaries  as  well ; 
three  of  them.  One  faithful  brother  who  is  sixty-eight  years  of  age  this 
month,  who  before  going  into  the  field  himself  had  sent  three  sons  on 
foreign  missions  and  supported  them  with  the  labor  of  his  own  hands,  and 
he  is  climaxing  that  service  by  contributing  a  great  work  himself.  Besides 
that,  another  man  who  has  left  a  family  of  ten,  is  happily  engaged  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  and  is  bringing  results.  The  third  one  by  accident  lost 
a  son,  and  from  that  accident  drew  some  insurance  money.  Instead  of 
spending  that  insurance  money  on  a  new  automobile,  or  some  other  thing, 
he  spent  it  serving  the  Lord  on  a  mission  himself,  and  he  claims  that  it  is 
the  greatest  investment  that  he  ever  made. 

We  are  happy  for  the  faith  of  the  members.  They  have  shown  their 
great  faith  and  devotion  by  a  decided  increase  in  their  tithes  and  their 
offerings ;  over  twenty  per  cent  increase  in  tithing,  and  a  ten  per  cent  in- 
crease in  fast  offerings,  and  they  are  happy  because  of  that. 

We  are  simply  building  on  the  foundation  that  has  been  laid  by  my 
predecessors,  President  Peterson,  President  Rowan  and  President  Ben- 
nion,  all  of  whom  have  left  good  names  and  good  works  in  that  field. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  Temple  Block  Mission,  not  alone  for  the  names 
that  they  send  us,  with  whom  we  can  make  contacts,  but  for  the  fine  im- 
pression of  the  truth  that  they  give  to  people  who  come  here.  It  is  a 
great  help  indeed  to  have  them  receive  the  right  understanding  and  the 
right  impression.  Most  visitors  who  come  here  we  find  have  a  splendid 
report  and  opinion  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Anything  that  any  of  you  can 
do,  by  your  good  works  to  give  the  right  impression  and  the  truth  of 
Mormonism,  reflects  directly  back  into  the  mission,  and  makes  our  work 
that  much  more  effective. 

How  we  rejoice  when  a  member  from  Zion  comes  into  the  mission 
field,  who  is  living  up  to  the  word  of  the  Lord !  He  is  a  living  testimony, 
and  he  hardly  needs  to  open  his  mouth  to  deliver  a  powerful  sermon  on 
the  virtues  of  Mormonism.  The  Lord  has  told  us  that  he  has  "sent  the 
everlasting  covenant  into  the  world,  to  be  a  light  to  the  world  and  to  be  a 
standard  for  my  people,  and  for  the  Gentiles  to  seek  to  it ;  and  to  be  a 
messenger  before  my  face,  to  prepare  the  way  before  me". 

Brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  could  only  realize  the  importance  of  this, 
and  let  the  Gospel  principles  be  a  standard  in  our  lives  from  day  to  day, 
how  we  should  be  blessed !  We  would  find  great  compensation  and  joy  by 
doing  that,  even  more  diligently  than  we  have.  The  Gospel  is  a  light  and 
a  guide.  We  hear  it  said  that  this  is  a  lost  generation,  that  there  is  a 
crisis  facing  religion,  and  I  believe  there  is  generally. 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


119 


I  heard  an  eminent  church  man,  not  long  ago,  declare  to  his  congre- 
gation that  what  we  need  now  is  a  realistic,  practical  theology  for  the 
world;  that  divine  guidance  is  the  only  solution  for  its  problems;  that 
there  is  a  need  of  a  prophet  among  us.  He  hopes  that  that  prophet  will 
soon  come  forth. 

Thank  God  that  we  have  that  realistic  theology,  that  we  have  that 
divine  guidance,  that  we  have  that  prophet!  Thank  the  Lord  for  the 
presence  and  leadership  of  Heber  J.  Grant,  our  president,  and  these  in- 
spired men  who  are  associated  with  him. 

Let  us  be  examples  to  the  world.  Let  us  arise  and  shine  forth  as  the 
Lord  has  told  us  to  do,  and  we  shall  find  great  joy,  as  I  say,  in  doing 
good  works.  Let  us  determine  to  be  examples  and  worthy  representa- 
tives, and  the  Lord  will  bless  us. 

I  shall  not  talk  longer.  I  pray  the  Lord's  blessings  upon  all  of  you, 
and  we  want  you  to  pray  for  us  who  are  working  in  the  mission  in  Texas 
and  Louisiana.  We  are  proud  of  that  great  country.  It  is  a  beautiful 
portion  of  our  nation,  and  we  are  happy  to  be  engaged  in  the  work  of  the 
Lord  there. 

God  bless  you  all,  Amen. 

ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

Newly  appointed  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  have  had  the  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  standing  before 
you  upon  various  occasions  in  general  conference,  but  I  have  never  felt 
so  humble  as  today. 

I  feel  very  grateful  that  the  Presidency  of  this  Church  and  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  have  had  confidence  enough  in  me  to  nominate  me  to  be 
appointed  to  this  new  position,  and  I  feel  grateful  to  you,  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  for  your  sustaining  vote.  I  love  these  men  and  I  love  the  Church, 
and  I  am  sure  the  Lord  knows  that  there  is  not  a  place  in  the  world  that  I 
would  not  go,  because  of  my  love  for  and  testimony  of  the  Gospel. 

I  am  very  happy  to  be  associated  with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am 
grateful  for  every  opportunity  of  service  that  has  come  to  me  in  the  past. 
I  feel  that  the  Lord  owes  me  nothing.  All  I  have  done  for  the  Church 
I  have  done  because  I  love  the  Church  and  because  I  love  the  Lord,  and 
the  Lord  does  not  owe  me  a  thing.  I  was  grateful  that  I  was  able  to  suc- 
cessfully drop  back  into  my  business,  so  that  the  people  would  not  think 
that  I  was  dependent  upon  the  Church. 

Now  I  feel  that,  unless  the  Lord  comes  to  my  aid,  I  shall  be  a  very 
weak  man  to  follow  Bishop  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon.  I  know  him  well  and 
I  love  him.  He  was  my  mission  president  when  I  filled  my  first  mission 
in  Holland.   He  released  me  from  that  mission. 

I  have  watched  him  and  have  admired  him,  and  when  the  President 
told  me  today  that  he  was  going  to  be  sustained  as  an  Apostle  I  was  not 
surprised ;  I  have  always  thought  that  that  would  be  his  final  appointment 
in  the  Church.  I  used  to  sit  as  a  boy,  in  the  mission  field,  when  he  was 
talking  to  investigators,  and  watch  him.    It  was  as  though  the  light  of 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Wednesday,  April  6  Third  Day 

truth  was  streaming  from  his  eyes,  as  he  explained  the  glorious  principles 
of  the  Gospel  to  those  who  were  searching  after  truth. 

I  want  to  say  to  you  men  who  bear  the  Priesthood,  and  those  of  you 
who  are  in  positions  of  responsibility,  whom  I  may  be  called  upon  to  con- 
tact in  this  new  assignment  that  has  come  to  me,  I  hope  you  will  never  be 
afraid  of  me.  I  hope  you  will  not  hesitate  to  come  into  my  qffice.  I  hope 
you  will  feel  free  to  write,  if  there  is  anything  that  I  can  do  to  help  you. 
I  am  willing  to  give  all  I  have,  and  all  the  Lord  will  give  to  me,  to  help 
this  work  roll  onward  and  upward  to  the  destiny  which  I  know  the  Lord 
has  decreed  for  it.  I  have  often  said  I  wish  the  world  could  see  it  as  God 
sees  it,  and  know  it  as  he  knows  it.  Sometimes  I  wish  the  Latter-day 
Saints  could  see  it  as  God  sees  it,  and  know  it  as  he  knows  it. 

I  want  to  say  to  you  that  there  is  no  achievement  that  can  ever  come 
in  the  lives  of  my  own  children  that  will  be  so  pleasing  to  me  as  to  know 
that  their  lives  shall  be  lives  of  service  to  this  great  Church. 

God  bless  our  leaders,  and  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  may  I  enjoy  your  faith  and  prayers  to  enable  me  to  fill  my  mission  as 
the  Lord  has  appointed,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  beyond  expression  at  the  wonderful  outpouring  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  from  our  first  meeting  until  the  close.  The  Lord  has 
abundantly  blessed  each  and  all  of  us  who  have  been  called  upon  to  speak. 

I  bless  you,  as  far  as  the  power  is  in  me  to  do  so — and  I  know  that 
I  have  it — I  know  as  I  know  the  Gospel  is  true  that  the  Lord  wanted  me 
to  preside  over  this  Church.  Brother  Joseph  F.  Smith's  last  few  words 
to  me,  and  the  last  he  gave  to  any  man  were :  "The  Lord  knows  whom  he 
wants  to  preside  over  his  Church,  and  he  never  makes  a  mistake."  By 
the  power  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God  I  bless  you,  one  and  all,  and 
the  righteous  and  honorable  men  and  women  all  over  the  world,  even  so. 
Amen. 

"And  the  Glory  of  the  Lord,"  an  anthem  from  The  Messiah,  by  Han- 
del, was  sung  by  the  Choir. 

Elder  H.  Edward  Sutton,  President  of  the  Oquirrh  Stake,  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  singing  at  the  Monday  sessions  of  the  Conference,  by  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers,  was  under  the  direction  of  Sister  Charlotte  O. 
Sackett.  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the  singing  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  at  the  Sunday  and  Wednesday  sessions.  The  congregational  sing- 
ing was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  and  Richard  P.  Condie. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Frank  W.  Asper  and  Wade  N.  Stephens. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Ot- 
terstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


Index 


Annual  Church  Report  •     74 

Authorities  Present      1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of   95 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   42 


The  vision  necessary,  42 — America  a  choice  land,  42 — The  blood  of 
Israel,  42 — Gathering  place  in  western  America,  43 — Times  of  the 
Gentiles,  44 — Gathering  of  the  Jews,  44 — Descendants  of  Lehi,  44 
— Latter-day  Saints  to  be  leaders,  44 — A  king  in  procession,  45 — 
The  strait  gate  and  the  narrow  way,  45 — Preparation  needed,  46. 


Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O   59 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E   6 

Stabilizing  power  of  an  ultimate  aim,  6 — Self-government  based  on 
observance  of  correct  principles,  7 — U.  S.  Constitution  protects 
rights  of  self-government,  7 — Perfection  possible,  8. 

Broadbent,  Elder  David  A    Ill 

Broadcast,  Choir  and  Organ   6 

Broadcast,  Church  of  the  Air     6 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   98 

The  spiritual  law  brings  peace,  98 — The  Holy  Ghost  given  men 
power,  99 — Joseph  Smith's  testimony,  101. 

Cannon,  Bishop  Sylvester  Q   2 

Importance  of  obedience,  2 — Results  of  disobedience  come  in  natural 
way,  3 — The  Gospel  a  perfect  law  of  liberty,  3 — Observance  of  law,  3 
■ — Source  of  unity,  3 — Blessings  predicated  upon  obedience,  A — 
Divine  principles,  4 — Positive  qualities  promote  real  happiness,  5 — 
Responsibility  of  Church  officers,  5. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers    80 

Choir  Broadcast       6 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast   6 

Church  Welfare  Program   77 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  102 

Profitable  investments  encouraged,  102 — Borrowing  brings  burdens, 

102 —  Statistics  on  farm  mortgages,  103 — Easy  money  not  a  blessing, 

103 —  Installment  buying  discouraged,  104 — Tax-payers  must  meet 
public  debts,  105 — Church  expenditures  carefully  handled,  105 — 
Church  welfare  work,  107. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger    39 

Daniel's  prediction,  39 — Laws  of  finance  and  health,  39 — Cost  of 
liquor  consumed,  40 — Forewarned  by  the  Lord,  40 — Benefits  from 
observing  law  of  tithing,  41. 

Christiansen,  Elder  Elray  L.      117 

Clayson,  Elder  Merrill  D  116 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Evans,  Elder  Frank   52 

Eyring,  Elder  Carl  F.    62 

Financial  Statement   74 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting      16 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting..       2 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church      95 

General  Authorities  Present  -   1 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  

General  Officers  of  the  Church       96 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   10 

Experiences  in  borrowing  money,  10 — Incidents  in  regard  to  "O 
Ye  Mountain  High",  11 — Repentance  means  forsaking  of  sin,  12 
— An  Agnostic's  opinion  of  Joseph  Smith's  story,  13 — Arguments  in 
tract  unanswerable,  14 — Brigham  Young's  plan  for  empire,  14 — 
Officers  urged  to  keep  commandments,  IS. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   16 

Telegram  from  Manhattan  Ward  Bishopric,  16. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   36 

Expresses  appreciation  for  "Singing  Mothers",  36. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   36 

Authorities  absent,  36. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J     88 

Authorities  absent,  88. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   95 

Presentation  of  Authorities,  95. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J    120 

Blesses  the  people,  120. 

Hinckley,  Elder  Bryant  S     73 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R    46 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden     29 

MacDonald,  Elder  W.  Aird     .  93 

McKay,  President  David  0   16 

A  trying  period  in  history,  16 — Result  of  rejecting  Gospel  teachings, 
17 — Working  for  salvation,  17 — No  need  for  idleness,  19 — What 
one  Ward  accomplished,  19 — Opportunities  at  hand,  20 — Need  and 
value  of  cooperation,  20 — Something  for  each  to  do,  21. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F   31 

Campaign  against  tobacco,  31- — -Efforts  to  be  characterized  by  love, 
32 — Cost  of  breaking  Word  of  Wisdom,  33 — Health  and  wisdom 
promised,  33 — A  light  unto  the  world,  34— Effort  required  to  over- 
come, 34— Book  by  Brother  and  Sister  Widtsoe,  35. 

Nibley,  Elder  Preston   90 


INDEX  123 

Petersen,  Elder  Alma  L   87 

Pratt,  Elder  Harold  W  115 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   27 

A  faithful  people,  27 — Purpose  of  life,  27 — The  Gospel  the  law  for 
all  mankind,  28 — Our  religion  a  positive  one,  29. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   119 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   21 

Intelligence  man's  chief  investiture,  22 — True  knowledge  and  intel- 
ligence rewarded,  22 — Intelligence  a  divine  essence,  23 — The  family 
of  God,  23— New  concept  of  heaven,  2/l — Mission  of  Church  for 
living  and  dead,  25 — Nature  and  need  of  Priesthood,  25 — Divine 
power  exists  in  earth  today,  26. 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   54 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   36 

Seegmiller,  Elder  William  W.    61 

Smith,  Bishop  David  A   57 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding    64 

Questions  concerning  purported  revelations,  64 — Key  revealed  to 
determine  true  revelation,  65 — Revelations  given  in  accordance  with 
law,  65 — Joseph  Smith's  comments  on  revelation,  65 — Spurious 
revelations,  66— Know  the  truth,  67. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed    37 

Use  of  cigaret.  condemned,  37 — Scriptural  passages,  38 — Safety  in 
living  the  Gospel,  38. 

Statistical  Information   76 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H   85 

Tew,  Elder  William  T.,  Jr  109 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  ...    95 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   74 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   67 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   48 

Sorrows  and  joys  mingled,  48 — Oliver  Cowdery  and  David  Whitmer, 
49 — Knowledge  not  all-sufficient,  49 — Intelligence  quickens  knowl- 
edge, 50— Wisdom  man's  great  need,  50 — Disobedience  is  sin,  51 
— Responsibility  comes  with  knowledge,  51. 

Williams,  Elder  Orlando  C.   92 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S       83 

Woods,  Elder  M.  Charles        88 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   54 


dlmdjoyuuDUtisihA. 

The  Deseret  Book  Company  is  headquarters  for  all 
L.  D.  S.  publications,  as  well  as  for  general  books  of 
every  kind.  We  especially  call  your  attention  to  the 
following  books,  oh  sale  here: 

Program  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  by  John  A.  Widtsoe..$1.25  (plus 

postage) 

A  Rational  Theology 

by  J.  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

A  Century  of  Mormonism  in  Great  Britain, 

by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.25  (postpaid) 


Romance  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 

by  Josiah  E.  Hickman  ..$2.50  (postpaid) 

Progress  of  Man, 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  $1.50  (postpaid) 


Whatever  your  book  needs,  consult  us  first.  We  have 
the  most  comprehensive  stock  of  books  in  the  inter- 
mountain  region,  and  we  specialize  in  books  about  the 
Mormons  and  the  West.  We  invite  your  inquiries. 

Expert  Service  by  Mail. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 


44  East  South  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


A  THRILLING  STORY 

of  Century  One  of 

CHURCH  HISTORY 

ERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time 
win  the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a 
COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H. 
Roberts  has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set 
down  the  record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  bril- 
liant appraisal  of  momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a 
sentimental  interest  will  be  fascinated  with  this  narrative 
of  truth  stranger  than  fiction;  the  reader  who  approaches 
the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision  of  the  historian  will 
find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact,  copious  in  detail 
and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was 
written  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaus- 
tively complete,  from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close 
of  the  Centennial  Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final 
volume  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Conference  itself,  mak- 
ing the  history  technically  inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in 
Century  One  of  the  organized  existence  of  the  Church.  Thus 
it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of  one  hundred  years  of  strug- 
gle and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  his- 
tory of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in 
AMERICANA,  running  serially  for  six  years  through  that 
magazine,  yet  this  History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of 
material,  new  in  method  of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical 
representation  of  the  book  maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


