October 
1905 


8j  SEVENTY -SIXTH 

I  Semi- Annual  Conference  I 

I  I 

ffl  OF  THE 


I         Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  | 

I  *  m 

%  Latter- day  Saints  | 


w 

tft    Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  October  6th,  7th,  and  8th, 


aj  1 905,  with  a  full  Report  of  the  Discourses. 

W 


92  ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  OF 

rf?  THE,  DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


ga  THE  DESERET  NEWS 

m^BBBBBBBBBB^BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB^BBBBBBBBBBBBB  % 


DESERET  NEWS 
BOOK  STORE 


Leading  Book  Concern  of  the  State. 

Standard  and  Miscellaneous  Books,  Histories, 
Biographies,    Late    Popular  Fiction, 
Etc.,  Etc.    All  of  the  Church 
and  Home  Publications. 
Send  for  Free  Cata- 
logue and  Price 

List.  '  • 


DESERET  NEWS  BUILDING, 

6  Main  Street,  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF 
LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Seventy-sixth  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
L<atter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle, Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.  m.  on 
Friday,  October  6,  1905,  President  Jo- 
seph F.  Smith  presiding. 

THE  PROCEEDINGS- 

There  were  present  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency, Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  R.  Win- 
der and  Anthon  H.  Lund;  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  Francis  M. 
Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith,  Rudger 
Clawson,  Reed  Smoot,  Hyrum  M. 
Smith,  George  A.  Smith  and  Charles 
W.  Penrose;  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventies,  Seymour  B.  Young,  Chris- 
tian D.  Fjeldsted,  Brigham  H.  Roberts, 
George  Reynolds,  J.  Golden  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMur- 
rin;  of  the  presiding  Bishopric,  William 
B.  Preston  and  Orrin  P.  Miller.  There 
were  also  a  large  number  of  presidents 
of  stakes,  their  counselors,  presidents  of 
missions,  and  other  prominent  men  of 
the  Priesthood. 

The  services  were  commenced  by  the 
choir  and  congregation  singing  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor 
fear, 

But  with  joy  wend  your  way; 
Though  hard  to  you  this  journey  may 
appear, 

Grace  shall  be  as  your  day. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  El- 
der John  T.  Caine. 


The  choir  and  congregation  then  unit- 
ed in  singing  the  hymn: 

Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only  delight, 

On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call; 
Our  shadow  by  day,  and  our  pillar  by 
night, 

Our  King,  our  Deliv'rer,  our  all! 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

(Opening  Address.) 

Reasons  for  thanksgiving  to  God. — Gen- 
eral condition  of  the  Church  highly 
satisfactory. — Injunction  urgently  re- 
peated, "Get  out  of  debt."— Many 
more  missionaries  needed. — "Zion  is 
growing;"  more  and  larger  buildings 
needed  for  Church  schools,  etc.— The 
tithing  accounts  can  be  seen  by  tithe- 
payers.— Satan  and  his  agents  cannot 
.  stop  the  progress  of  God's  work. 

I  desire  to  say,  welcome  to  all  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  to  our  friends 
and  the  stranger  within  our  gates,  at 
the  opening  of  this  seventy-sixth  semi- 
annual conference  of  the  Church  of  Je- 
sus Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am 
pleased  to  be  with  you,  and  am  ex- 
ceedingly grateful  to  the  Lord  for  His 
kind  mercies  and  preserving  care  that 
have  been  extended  to  us  all  during 
the  past  six  months,  in  that  we  have 
been  blessed  with  life,  health  and 
prosperity,  and  have  been  preserved 
to  attend  this  conference  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  so  many  precious  gifts  and 
blessings.  I  think  we  may  consistent- 
ly congratulate  ourselves  on  the  great 
goodness  manifested  toward  us  by  Him 
from  whom  all  blessings  come,  in  pre- 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


serving  us  in  the  truth,  putting  into 
our  hearts  and  continuing'  within  us 
that  earnest  desire  which  we  all  must 
feel  for  the  upbuilding  of  Zion,  the 
spread  of  truth,  the  accomplishment  of 
the  purposes  of  the  Lord,  and  for  the 
establishment  of  righteousness  in  the 
hearts  of  our  children,  our  associates 
and  of  the  people  of  the  world;  and 
that  earnest  desire  also  which  we  all 
should  feel  for  those  who  are  misled 
and  are  sitting  in  darkness  and  know 
not  the  truth,  that  we  may  become 
instrumental  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord 
of  extending  to  all  such,  as  far  as  it 
may  be  possible,  a  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel  which  we  have  embraced,  that 
they  too  may  see  the  light,  if  they 
choose  to  do  so;  and  if  they  choose 
not  the  light,  but  prefer  to  remain 
in  darkness,  that  they  may  be  left 
without  excuse.  I  feel  thankful  every 
day  of  my  life  for  that  desire  in  my 
heart,  and  I  would  fear  that  the  Lord 
was  withdrawing  His  Spirit  from  me  if 
I  did  not  entertain  that  feeling,  and 
did  not  have  an  earnest  desire  in  my 
soul  for  good,  and  not  for  evil.  I  am 
thankful  to  the  Lord  that  He  gives  me 
the  desire  to  do  good,  and  not  evil; 
that  He  leads  my  thoughts  in  the  chan- 
nels of  honor,  virtue,  uprightness,  and 
integrity  to  those  principles  which  I 
have  espoused.  And  I  believe  that 
all  Latter-day  Saints  possess  thlat 
spirit  and  feeling  in  their  hearts,  and 
that  they  have  reason  to  be  grateful 
to  the  Lord  every  day  of  their  lives 
that  their  ambitions,  their  hopes  and 
their  desires  are  for  good,  and  not  for 
evil.  The  Latter-day  Saints  possess 
the  spirit  of  salvation,  and  not  the 
spirit  of  destruction;  the  spirit  of  life, 
not  the  spirit  of  death;  the  spirit  of 
peace,  not  of  disunion;  the  spirit  of 
love  for  their  fellowbeings,  not  the 
spirit  of  hate.  And  for  the  enjoyment 
of  this  spirit  by  the  saints  of  the  Most 
High  we  all  have  great  cause  to  render 
praise  and  thanksgiving  to  Him  who 
has  so  ordered  it,  and  who  has  given 
to  us  humility  to  receive  and  that 
measure  of  His  Spirit  which  inclines 
our  hearts  to  good  and  not  to  evil. 

Since  our  last  general  conference, 
the  general  authorities  of  the  Church, 


I  believe,  have  been  performing  their 
duty  to  the  best  of  their  ability,  ac- 
cording to  their  strength  and  the  gifts 
of  God  that  they  possess.  They  have 
been  diligent.  Not  one  of  them  has 
declined  to  respond  to  any  call  that 
has  been  made  upon  him.  The  Apos- 
tles and  the  Seventies  have  been  faith- 
ful in  attending  to  the  various  quar- 
terly conferences  of  the  Church:  and 
from  all  the  reports  that  we  have 
heard  of  their  labors,  we  are  given  to 
understand  that  the  people  have  not 
only  been  satisfied  with  their  ministra- 
tions, but  the  Apostles  and  Seventies, 
and  the  Elders  who  have  accompanied 
them,  have  reported  most  satisfactor- 
ily of  the  condition  generally  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  where  they  have  vis- 
ited. 

The  reports  that  we  have  received 
from  the  various  missions  are  most 
encouraging,  with  this  one  exception: 
the  demand  from  the  missionary  fields 
for  Elders  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the 
world  ■  seems  more  than  we  can  fill. 
The  harvest  is  truly  great,  but  the 
laborers  are  few.  It  seems  impos- 
sible for  us  to  meet  the  requirements 
that  are  made  of  us  for  missionaries. 
In  this  connection  it  may  be  proper 
for  me  to  say  that  in  some  instances 
— far  too  many — these  who  have  been 
invited  to  go  on  missions  have  re- 
plied that  while  they  felt  honored  with 
the  call  they  regretted  to  say  that  their 
circumstances  were  such  that  they 
could  not  see  their  way  clear  to  go.  as 
they  were  involved  in  debt.  They 
had  assumed  pecuniary  responsibil- 
ities that  they  could  not  discharge  at 
that  time,  and  they  were  obliged  to 
ask  for  further  time  in  order  to  liquid- 
ate their  indebtedness  and  prepare 
themselves  to  go  into  the  world  to 
preach  the  Gospel. 

For  three  years  and  more  my  text, 
and  the  text  of  my  brethren,  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  to  ourselves,  has 
been,  pay  your  debts;  get  out 
of  debt,  and  then  remain  out 
of  debt,  by  living  economically, 
by  being  prudent  with  means,  by  sav- 
ing up  and  gathering  in  our  resources, 
thus  preparing  ourselves  to  meet  our 
necessities  with  ready  means,  instead 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


3 


of  being  inclined  to  go  to  the  stores,  to 
the  implement  shops,  and  to  the  vari- 
ous establishments,  to  purchase  goods 
on  credit — goods  which  it  might  be  pos- 
sible for  us  to  do  without,  at  least  un- 
til we  could  pay  down  for  them  and 
.get  the  cash  price.  Reports  have  come 
to  us  from  various  parts  of  the  Church 
that  many  of  our  people  are  still  being 
gulled  by  traveling  agents,  and  per- 
suaded to  enter  into  obligations  for 
wagons,  for  agricultural  implements, 
for  sewing  machines,  for  stoves  and 
neaters,  and  for  almost  every  imagin- 
able thing,  giving  t/!ierefor  ironclad 
notes,  at  highest  prices,  with  agree- 
ments compelling  them  to  surrender 
the  goods  whenever  they  fail  to  pay 
interest  and  principal  as  specified,  un- 
der which  they  are  liable  to  have  the 
goods  taken  from  them  and  lose  all 
they  have  paid  thereon.  Many  of  our 
people  are  unwise  enough  to  deal  with 
-men  in  this  way.  If  they  would  only 
save  their  means,  and  live  so  that  they 
will  have  means  on  hand  instead  of  be- 
ing obligated  to  others,  it  would  be  far 
oetter  for  them,  and  there  would  be 
fewer  excuses  on  the  part  of  Elders 
who  are  invited  to  take  missions,  in 
consequence  of  their  being  involved  in 
debt.  Besides  it  would  not  cost  them 
so  much  to  live.  We  do  not  mind  when 
■a  young  man  is  not  able  to  take  a  mis- 
sion because  he  is  building  a  home  for 
liis  wife  and  is  under  contract  for  it. 
That  is  all  right.  We  will  excuse  him, 
he  is  at  liberty  to  remain  until  he  has 
accomplished  his  home  work,  and 
when  he  is  ready  he  can  report  him- 
.self  as  prepared  to  take  his  mission. 
Now,  I  repeat  to  the  people  present  at 
this  conference:  My  injunction,  and 
the  injunction  of  my  brethren  of  the 
Presidency  and  of  the  Twelve,  is,  Get 
out  of  debt;  pay  your  honest  obliga- 
tions, free  yourselves  so  that  you  will 
be  at  liberty  to  perform  any  dutv  that 
you  desire  or  that  may  be  asked  of 
you  for  the  upbuilding  of  Zion  and 
the  spread  of  truth.  We  do  not  care 
what  the  world  says  with  reference  to 
our  preaching  the  Gospel,  nor  with 
reference  to  the  necessity  of  young  men 
l>eing  asked  to  go  out  into  the  world  to 


preach  the  Gospel.  In  nine  hundred 
and  ninety-nine  times  out  of  a  thous- 
and the  young  men  who  are  asked  to 
take  missions  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth  respond  cheerfully  and  gladly, 
and  rejoice  that  they  are  considered 
worthy  to  go  out  bearing  the  message 
of  life  and  salvation  to  their  fellow- 
men.  It  is  a  privilege,  it  is  an  honor 
to  them  to  be  accounted  worthy  to 
bear  the  name  of  God  and  the  mes- 
sage of  life  and  salvation  to  the  world, 
and  no  amount  of  ridicule,  no  amount 
of  false  accusations  and  malicious 
charges,  will  ever  change  their 
thoughts  and  feelings  with  respect  to 
this  work.  They  know  what  they  are 
doing.  And  there  is  no  coercion  used 
in  matters  of  this  kind.  It  is  all  free 
will,  all  tree  grace.  Never  was  there 
a  man  required  to  go  on  a  mission  to 
the  world,  or  sent  on  a  mission,  who 
had  any  objection  to  going  or  who  de- 
clined to  go.  Those  who  have  gone  out 
to  preach  the  Gospel  have  gone  willing- 
ly, cheerfully,  gladly,  because  they 
have  felt  it  was  to  their  own  advan- 
tage and  a  great  honor. 

Then  I  repeat,  the  only  difficulty  we 
have  to  meet  now  with  reference  to 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  in  the  va- 
rious missions  in  the  earth  is  that  we 
are  unable  to  furnish  the  number  and 
the  character  of  the  help  required.  We 
would  like  the  young  men  to  prepare 
themselves,  financially  and  intellectu- 
ally, and  above  all  spiritually,  having 
the  testimony  of  the  Gospel  in  their 
hearts,  that  when  they  shall  be  called 
to  go  upon  missions  they  will  be  ready 
to  go.  so  that  we  may  be  in  a  position 
to  supply  the  Elders  necessary  to 
preach  the  Gospel  to  the  world. 

A  large  amount  of  means  has  been 
expended  in  the  erection  of  meeting- 
houses in  the  various  wards  and  stakes 
of  Zion,  and  the  Trustee-in-Trust  has 
been  called  upon  to  furnish  large  sums 
of  money  to  assist;  and  also,  in  many 
instances,  to  assist  the  people  in  the 
Creation  of  church  jshoolhouses  and 
houses  of  amusement.  We  would  like 
all  the  world  to  know  that  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
aims    not   only   to   provide    houses  of 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


worship  for  its  members,  but  it  also 
aims  to  provide  houses  of  instruction 
and  houses  of  amusement  as  well,  that 
the  people  of  the  Church,  old  and 
young,  may  have  places  where  they 
can  assemble  in  the  dance,  in  concerts, 
in  musical  festivals,  and  in  intellectual 
feasts,  that  they  may  have  scope  for 
the  enjoyment  of  every  desire  of  their 
hearts  in  righteousness.  I  will  say  to 
you  that  the  Church  has  been  as  liberal 
in  these  matters  as  it  was  possible  to 
be  in  view  of  the  obligations  that  still 
rest  upon  the  Trustee-in-Trust.  Our 
Church  schools  are  increasing,  and 
the  demand  is  increasing  contin- 
ually for  means  with  which  to  keep 
them  going,  and  also  for  the  purpose 
of  erecting  additional  buildings  to  ac- 
commodate the  children.  When  we 
tell  you  that  almost  every  Church 
school  throughout  the  land  is  filled  to 
overflowing,  you  may  perhaps  discern 
the  growth  of  the  people  of  God  and 
the  progress  and  advancement  of  our 
educational  institutions.  No  sooner 
is  one  building  completed  than  it  is  dis- 
covered that  it  is  too  small,  and  that 
more  room  is  required.  From  time  to 
time,  therefore,  we  have  to  assist  in 
enlarging  and  in  providing  accommoda- 
tion for  our  children.  I  think  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  will  be  able  to  dis- 
cern in  this  fact  a  glorious  truth.  Zion 
is  growing,  and  interest  is  being  in- 
creased in  the  hearts  of  the  people  in 
proper  education  and  training,  to  the 
end  that  our  children  may  go  to  schools 
where  the  Bible  is  not  excluded,  where 
the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  are  admit- 
ted, and  where  true>  religion  may  be 
taught  as  well  as  letters  and  the  scien- 
ces and  arts.  The  Trustee-in-Trust  has 
also  assisted  largely  in  procuring  mis- 
sion houses  in  Scandinavia,  in  Great 
Britain,  in  the  islands  of  the  sea,  and 
in  our  own  land  of  America.  We  are 
now  helping  to  build  a  place  of  worship 
and  a  dwelling-house  at  Papeete,  Ta- 
hiti. We  have  done  the  same  in  Sa- 
moa. Assistance  has  also  been  ren- 
dered to  the  New  Zealand  mission  for 
a  similar  purpose,  and  to  Australia  as 
well.     In  these  island  missions  we  are 


extending  aid  to  our  people  in  order  to- 
givo  them  a  better  standing  and  wider 
influence,  that  they  may  gain  the  re- 
spect they  merit;  for,  as  a  rule,  the  peo- 
ple of  those  islands  are  very  poor. 

Since  our  last  conference  the  Scan- 
dinavian mission  has  been  divided  in 
two,  for  the  convenience  of  the  people. 
Sweden  has  been  organized  into  a  mis- 
sion of  itself,  with  headquarters  at 
Stockholm;  and  the  Scandinavian  mis- 
sion now  consists  of  Denmark  and  Nor- 
way. 

Casting  one's  thoughts  over  all  the 
field,  we  cannot  come  to  any  other  con- 
clusion than  that  the  work  of  the  Lord 
is  alive,  healthy  and  vigorous,  in  every 
land  where  the  Gospel  of  the  Son  of 
God  is  preached  by  the  Elders  of  the 
Church.  It  is  spreading  abroad,  and 
the  power  and  influence  of  the  people  is 
growing  for  good.  The  strangers  who- 
visit  us  see  the  contrast  between  the 
false  and  slanderous  representations 
that  are  sent  abroad  with  reference  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  the  actual 
conditions  existing  here,  and  they  go 
away  agreeably  disappointed,  delighted 
with  what  they  see  and  hear,  and  con- 
vinced that  no  people,  perhaps,  upon 
the  earth  are  so  much  villified  as  are 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  sometimes 
feel  that  I  can  see  the  hand  of  Provi- 
dence in  the  work  that  is  going  on  in 
the  world;  for  surely  it  only  takes  an 
eye  half  open  to  discover  the  fraud 
and  misrepresentation,  the  slanders  and 
the  lies  that  are  circulated  throughout 
the  world  with  reference  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  If  people  will  only 
come  and  see  for  themselves,  if  they 
will  only  take  the  pains  to  inform  them- 
selves of  the  truth,  and  compare  condi- 
tions here  with  the  false  reports  that 
are  circulated,  the  very  contrast  will, 
make  the  truth  more  forceful  to  their 
minds. 

Brother  Horace  S.  Ensign,  who  has 
presided  for  a  number  of  years  in  the 
Japanese  mission,  has  returned,  and  the 
presidency  of  that  mission  has  been 
turned  over  to  Brother  Alma  O.  Taylor. 
A  number  of  young  men  have  recently 
been  sent  to  that  mission.  The  Elders 
that  have  been  there  have  succeeded  In. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


5 


learning  the  language,  as  is  the  case  in 
other  foreign  missions.  "Wherever  the 
Elders  of  the  Church  go  they  are  re- 
markable in  acquiring  speedily  and 
thoroughly  the  language'  of  the  people 
to  whom  they  are  sent.  Everywhere 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  whispers  to  the 
honest  in  heart  who  are  faithful,  and 
gives  to  them  the  assurance  that  His 
Tiand  is  stretched  out  continually  over 
His  people;  that  as,  in  the  past,  He  has 
preserved  them  and  delivered  them  out 
-of  the  hands  of  their  enemies,  so  in 
the  future  He  will  continue  to  preserve 
and  deliver  them,  and  he  will  make  the 
wrath  of  the  wicked  to  praise  Him 
and  to  accomplish  the  more  speedily 
His  purposes.  We  have  every  evidence 
to  convince  us  that  the  work  of  the 
Lord  is  a  reality,  a  living,  active,  pro- 
gressive work  in  the  earth.  Let  me 
say  to  you  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of 
the  land  have  faithfully  and  honestly, 
I  believe,  as  ever  they  did  in  their  lives, 
observed  the  law  of  tithing.  I  am 
happy  to  say  to  you  that  the  tithes 
of  the  people  have  not  diminished,  but 
they  have  increased,  notwithstanding 
the  disasters  that  have  occurred  in 
some  portions  of  the  land.  In  some 
parts  hailstorms  have  destroyed  por- 
tions of  the  crops;  in  other  parts  there 
have  been  more  or  less  drouth,  and  in- 
sects, which  have  cut  short  the  crops 
in  some  degree;  but  this  has  only  been 
to  a  limited  extent;  the  most  of  the 
products  of  the  land  have  been 
blessed  and  are  abundant,  and  the 
majority  of  the  people  have  reaped 
bounteous  harvests,  through  the  bless- 
ing of  God  upon  their  labors.  I  am 
happy  to  say  this  to  you. 

I  want  to  say  further  to  the  Saints, 
that  your  brethren  to  whom  you  have 
entrusted  the  care  and  management  of 
the  finances  of  the  Church  stand  ready 
and  willing,  any  moment,'  to  answer  to 
YOU — to  Latter-day  Saints,  to  tithe- 
payers,  to  those  who  are  in  the  faith 
of  the  Gospel — for  our  stewardship.  We 
can  give  you  an  account  of  our  doings 
to  the  last  senine;  and  I  defy  any  man 
on  earth  to  point  his  finger  to  a  dollar 
that  is  wilfully  wasted,  or  stolen  by  the 


servants  of  God.  The  tithing  books  are 
kept  as  accurately  and  as  perfectly  a3 
any  books  kept  in  any  bank.  Every 
man  that  pays  a  dollar  tithing  gets  his 
credit  on  the  books;  and  if  he  wants 
to  see  that  his  credit  is  there  he  can 
go  and  see  for  himself.  But  we  do  not 
propose  to  open  our  books  and  show 
your  accounts  to  every  Tom,  Dick  and 
Harry  in  the  land  that  never  did  pay 
any  tithing.  We  do  not  propose  to  do 
that,  if  we  can  help  it.  But  you  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  who  pay  your  tithes 
and  your  offerings,  if  you  want  to  see 
for  yourselves,  that  you  may  be  eye 
and  ear  witnesses,  the  books  are  open 
to  you,  and  you  can  come  and  examine 
your  accounts  any  business  day  you 
want. 

Now,  we  are  thankful  to  the  Lord 
that  we  are  counted  worthy  to  be  taken 
notice  of  by  the  devil.  I  would  fear 
very  much  for  our  safety  if  we  had 
fallen  into  a  condition  where  the  devil 
ceased  to  be  concerned  about  us.  So 
long  as  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  enjoyed 
by  you,  so  long  as  you  are  living  your 
religion  and  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord,  walking  uprightly 
before  Him,  I  assure  you  that  the  ad- 
versary of  souls  will  not  rest  easy;  he 
will  be  discontented  with  you,  will  find 
fault  with  you,  and  he  will  arraign  you 
before  his  bar;  but  that  will  not  hurt 
you  very  much  if  you  will  only  just 
keep  on  doing  right.  You  do  not  need 
to  worry  in  the  least,  the  Lord  will 
take  care  of  you  and  bless  you.  He 
will  also  take  care  of  His  servants,  and 
will  bless  them  and  help  them  to  ac- 
complish His  purposes;  and  all  the 
powers  of  darkness  combined  in  earth 
and  in  hell  cannot  prevent  it.  They 
may  take  men's  lives;  they  may  slay 
and  destroy,  if  they  will;  but  they  can- 
not destroy  the  purposes  of  God,  nor 
stop  the  progress  of  His  work.  He  has 
stretched  forth  His  hand  to  accomplish 
His  purposes,  and  the  arm  of  flesh  can- 
not stay  it.  He  will  cut  His  work  short 
in  righteousness,  and  will  hasten  His 
purposes  in  His  own  time.  It  is  only 
necessary  for  us  to  try  with  our  might 
to  keep  pace  with  the  onward  progress 
of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  then  God 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


will  preserve  and  protect  us,  and  will 
prepare  the  way  before  us,  that  we 
shall  live  and  multiply  and  replenish 
the  earth  and  always  do  His  will; 
which  may  God  grant  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang-  the  anthem,  "Lift  up 
the  voice  in  singing." 

PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 

Admonition  to  the  Saints  to  sustain  Presi- 
dent Smith  as  Trustee-in-Trust.— Testi- 
mony that  he  is  worthy  of  their  confi- 
dence. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  my  soul  is 
filled  with  gratitude  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  permitting  me  to  assemble 
with  you  once  more  in  general  confer- 
ence. I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in 
what  we  have  heard  from  our  Presi- 
dent and  I  wish  to  testify  that  every 
word  he  has  spoken  is  true  and  faith- 
ful. I  am  here  to  uphold  and  sustain 
him  in  the  position  he  has  taken  in  ev- 
ery particular.  All  I  want  to  say  to 
you  this  morning,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, is  in  relation  to  the  Trustee-in- 
Trust.  I  say  that  your  funds  are  per- 
fectly safe  in  his  hands,  and,  as  he  has 
said,  not  one  dollar  is  used  except 
where  it  belongs.  I  testify  to  this  in 
your  presence  this  morning,  and  that 
all  things  are  well.  He  is  doing  just 
right;  and  the  statement  that  he  has 
made  with  regard  to  the  books  being 
open  to  those  who  have  an  interest,  is 
a  fact,  and  you  can  satisfy  yourselves 
of  these  things.  Now,  let  all  doubts 
be  removed  from  your  minds,  if  you 
have  any,  though  I  do  not  believe  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  any  doubts  in 
relation  to  this  matter.  There  may  be 
a  few  who  have,  but  the  true  and  faith- 
ful Latter-day  Saints  have  no  doubt 
in  regard  to  this  subject.  I  say  to  you 
this  morning,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
uphold  and  sustain  the  President  as 
Trustee-in-Trust  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
all  things  will  be  well  with  you.  May 
the  Lord  help  us  all,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Willi-  g  "e.=s  nrd  dil'gence  cf  th^  mission- 
ari°F.— Erten'-'ivp  c'rculat'on  cf  Crurch 
literature.— Djfflculti'-s  in  Turkey. — 
Su  cess  in  Grrece.  South  Africa,  and 
Japan.— Satisfactory  conditions  among 
the  gathered  Saints. 


I  am  indeed  happy  this  morning  to 
see  this  large  congregation  at  the  first 
session  of  our  conference.  It  shows 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  alive  in 
their  religion  and  anxious  to  meet  in 
these  gatherings  of  the  Saints.  They 
want  to  be  built  up  and  refreshed  in 
their  holy  faith.  I  was  pleased  to  look 
at  your  faces  and  to  note  the  atten- 
tion with  which  you  followed  the  re- 
marks of  our  President  and  Bro  her 
Winder.  Like  Brother  Winder,  I  can 
endorse  everything  the  President  has 
said.  We  are  in  a  position  to  know 
that  it  is  the  truth. 

I  was  pleased  to  follow  the  President 
in  his  sketch  of  the  work  being  done 
abroad.  We  feel  indeed  interested  in 
the  missionary  labors,  and  it  is  a  p  eas- 
ure  to  tell  you  how  gladly  our  brethren 
respond  to  the  calls  made  upon  them 
to  go  upon  missions.  I  do  not  1  e- 
member  more  than  one  or  two  refusals 
during  the  last  six  months.  The  g  eat 
majority  have  expressed  themselves  as 
honored  in  being  car.ed  to  go,  and  they 
say  that  they  feel  it  is  their  duty  to  go 
and  let  the  world  know  what  they 
themselves  have  received.  It  is  pleas- 
ant to  read  these  letters  from  our  you  g 
men,  middle  aged  men,  and  even  o  d 
men,  who  have  been  called  to  go  out 
and  bear  their  testimonies  to  the  world. 

A  great  deal  has  been  done  in  diffus- 
ing the  printed  word  to  the  world.  I 
believe  the  British  mission  lead?  in 
this,  but,  take  all  our  missions  together, 
the  number  of  tracts  and  boo'cs  tint 
have  been  scattered  among  the  people 
has  run  up  into  millions.  Our  brethren 
are  faithful  in  going  from  hou~e  to 
house,  leaving  tracts,  trying  to  get  into 
conversation  with  the  people,  to  let 
them  know  the  glorious  truth  that  God 
has  again  spoken  unto  man.  The  B~>ok 
of  Mormon  is  sought  after.  The  pr  si- 
dents  of  missions  in  the  United  States 
have  printed  large  editions  and  are 
circulating  thern  everywhere,  selling 
them  as  cheaply  as  possible,  that  the 
world  may  become  acquainted  with  trat 
sacred  volume,  which  has  been  given 
by  God  unto  this  generation.  Our 
French  edition  is  gone;  another  must 
be  published.  The  Swedish  edition  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  is  out  of  print, 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


7 


and  another  must  be  printed  there.  The 
Turkish  Saints  are  asking  that  they 
may  have  this  volume  printed  in  the 
Turkish  language.    It  has  been  trans- 
lated by  Brother  Hintze  and  assistants, 
and  we  intend  to  have  it  published, 
and   try  to  get  it  into  the  Ottoman 
empire.    It  is  hard  to  get  printed  mat- 
ter   into    that    country,    as    they  are 
afraid  of  books,  afraid  that  there  is 
something  in  them  inimical  to  the  gov- 
ernment.   Whenever  you  land  at  a  port 
the  custom  officers  are  suspicious  of 
ycur  books,  and  they  have  them  exam- 
ined before  they  allow  you  to  take  them 
into  the  country.    Hence  the  difficulty 
we  will  have  in  getting  the  Book  of 
Mormon  to  the  people  there.   We  would 
print   it   in    Constantinople   and  thus 
have  it  in  the  country,  but  we  find  that 
should  we  try  to  get  it  into  the  other 
provinces  of  Turkey  we  would  have 
the  same  difficulty  to  pass  the  custom 
officers,  whether  it  has  the  government 
permit  stamped  on  it  or  not.   They  say 
that  anyone  could  print  that  on  the 
book,  and  so  it  is  left  to  the  custom 
house  officers  to  decide.    But  we  be- 
lieve we  shall  yet  be  able  to  get  that 
work  into  the  hands  of  the  people  of 
that  land.    The  work  of  the  Lord  is 
progressing  there;  still  our  Armenian 
Saints  are  having  a  hard  time.    It  is 
a  poor  country  to  live  in,  and  the  Saints 
are  not  yet  recognized  as  a  religious 
body  by  the  government.   We  have  not 
very   many  Elders   laboring  there  at 
present,  but  will  try  to  get  more.  At 
Athens,   in   Greece,   there  are  several 
persons  inquiring  about  the  truth.  We 
were  indeed  pleased  a  few  weeks  ago 
to   receive   from   them   several  tracts 
printed  in  Athens  in  the  Greek  lan- 
guage.    They   are   "Rays     of  Living 
Light,"  written  by  Elder  Penrose,  and 
had   been    translated    into   that  lan- 
guage.    These   Greeks    had  received 
copies  of  those  tracts,  and  they  thought 
them  worth  translating  and  printing, 
and  sending  out  among  their  country- 
men.   They  are  now  asking  for  mis- 
sionaries  to  be  sent  to  them   to  of- 
ficiate in  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 
This  shows  that  the  Spirit  of  God  is 
working  upon  the  people,  and  that  men 


are  seeking  for  the  truth.   We  are  try- 
ing to  get  the  Gospel  principles  sent 
to   every   nation.     Our  brethren  who 
were  sent  to  South  Africa  found  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  who  received  the 
Gospel   there  many  years  ago,  when 
the  mission  was  first  opened,  and  al- 
though they  have  not  been  visited  by 
Elders,  for  many  years,  they  have  kept 
the  faith  and  have  tried  to  make  others 
understand  the  truth  as  they  have  re- 
ceived it.    Our  Elders  have  been  suc- 
cessful in  baptizing  new  members,  and 
the  Church  there  is  increasing  in  num- 
bers.   Brother  Alma  O.  Taylor,  presi- 
dent of  the  Japanese  mission  is  engag- 
ed in  translating  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
He  has  been  wonderfully  blest  in  learn- 
ing that  language.    Several  of  the  El- 
ders with  him  are  also  able  to  preach 
in  Japanese  and  are  traveling  amongst 
the  people.    Brother  Ensign,  who  has 
recently  returned  accomplished  a  great 
work   in   translating   hymns   into  the 
Japanese  language  and  setting  them  to 
music,  so  that  the  Japanese  can  sing 
our  hymns  and  feel  the  spirit  that  goes 
with  them.     They  have  not  bapt'zed 
very  many,   though   they    have  had 
many  applications  for  baptism,  but  the 
brethren  feel  that  before  they  baptize 
anyone  he  should  understand  the  Gos- 
pel, have  faith  in  God  and  in  His  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  and  know  concerning  the 
work  that  God  has  established  upon  the 
earth.    The  method  of  preaching  the 
Gospel  to  a  people  that  do  not  bel  eve 
in  the  true  God  is.   of  course,  much 
different  from  the  way  we  preach  it  to 
those  who  are  believers  in  the  Bible, 
and    in  Christ  as  the  Savior  of  mankind. 
The  brethren  are  seeking  to  reach  the 
children  there,  and  they  have  a  large 
attendance   at    Sunday   schools.  The 
children   are   delighted   to    hear  the 
teachings  of  the  Elders  and  to  sing  our 
hymns,  and  in  the  streets  of  Tokio  you 
can  often  hear  the  little  ones  sing  our 
Sunday  school  songs.    These  children 
go  home  and  tell  their  parents  what 
they  have  learned  in  the  Mormon  Sun- 
day school,  and  their  parents  get  in- 
terested  themselves.     I   consider  that 
the  Elders  there  are  taking  the  right 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


course  to  reach  the  hearts  of  the  people 
of  that  nation. 

It  is  indeed  pleasing1  to  us  to  see  the 
progress  that  the  work  is  making  in 
the  different  parts  of  the  earth,  and  I 
hope  to  see  this  progress  accelerated 
and  the  benign  influences  of  the  Gospel 
he  felt  more  and  more  among  the  peo- 
ple. At  home,  we  feel  that  the  Saints 
in  the  different  Stakes  are  progressing 
in  all  good  works.  The  quarterly  con- 
ferences that  have  been  held  in  all  of 
the  55  Stakes  have  been  times  of  re- 
joicing, and  spiritual  feasts  unto  all 
present,  and  we  believe  that  the  Saints 
are  growing  in  grace  with  God. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  to 
be  with  you.  I  rejoice  to  be  a  fellow- 
laborer  with  you  in  building  up  the 
Church  of  Christ  upon  the  earth.  This 
work  will  prosper  and  it  will  not  be 
given  to  any  other  people.  The  Lord 
has  so  declared  it.  This  people  will 
carry  it  on.  and  the  Lord  will  crown 
their  efforts  with  success.  God  bless 
ycu  all.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT   FRANCIS   M.  LYMAN. 

Gospel  principles  did  not  originate  with 
Joseph  Smith.— Joseph  called  of  God  to 
be  a  great  prophet— Gathering  and 
Temple  building.— The  Church  of  Christ, 
and  His  disciples,  always  persecuted.— 
The  Saints  loyal  to  the  nation,  and  to 
the  Church— The  Church  thoroughly  es- 
tablished. 

I  have  been  very  greatly  interested  in 
the  remarks  of  our  brethren,  and,  with 
the  assistance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
I  shall  take  pleasure  in  talking  to  you 
for  a  few  moments.  The  congregation 
this  morning  is  unusually  large  for 
the  first  meeting,  which  indicates  that 
the  Saints  are  interested  and  are  anx- 
ious to  participate  in  the  conference. 
The  testimonies  that  we  have  listened 
to  from  the  Presidency  find  an  echo  in 
our  hearts.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are 
a  peculiar  people,  and  every  individual 
member  of  the  Church  has  the  same 
kind  of  testimony  that  is  enjoyed  by 
the  Presidency.  These  testimonies  are 
not  confined  to  any  quorum  or  council, 
but  every  member  of  the  Church, 
whether  his  membership  is  of  long  or  of 
short  duration,  has  the   same  abiding 


spirit  in  his  soul,  and  is  established 
and  fixed  in  his  faith.  For  that  reason 
there  is  no  danger  to  this  Church,  be- 
cause the  members  thereof  enjoy  the 
same  spirit.  We  are  one;  and  the  doc- 
trines so  commend  themselves  to  the 
judgment  of  honest  people,  that  when 
we  have  tested  them  and  realized  how 
precious,  reliable,  and  soul-satisfying 
they  are,  we  are  never  inclined  to  de- 
part from  them  so  long  as  we  are  true 
and  faithful.  The  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel have  always  been  and  will  always 
be  true.  They  have  been  revealed  to 
us  in  the  latter  days.  They  have  not 
been  created  in  this  dispensation.  They 
have  not  originated  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  but  they  have  simply 
been  brought  to  light  and  revealed  to 
the  children  of  men  in  this  age.  They 
are  possessed  by  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  only 
living  and  true  Church  established 
among  the  children  of  men — this 
Church  that  has  been  brought  out  of 
obscurity  into  the  light  and  brought  to 
»the  attention  of  the  peoples  of  the 
world.  We  have  been  preaching  these 
doctrines  as  revealed  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  for  seventy-five  years. 
We  are  in  the  ministry,  and  are  in- 
creasing gradually,  steadily,  and  surely, 
spreading  abroad  and  becoming  more 
solid,  substantial  and  reliable  than  ever. 
The  work  is  so  well  settled  that  it  can- 
not be  disturbed,  so  we  believe,  and 
absolutely  know,  for  it  is  the  work  of 
•the  Lord.  The  Lord  has  called  and 
qualified  His  servants,  commencing 
with  the  Prophet  Joseph  many  years 
ago.  He  took  him  in  hand,  He  gave 
him  birth,  He  brought  him  forward,  in- 
troduced him  to  the  world,  planted  in 
his  heart  the  doctrines  of  life  and  sal- 
vation, and  early  in  the  last  century 
honored  him  with  the  sacred  calling  of 
an  Apostle,  a  Prophet,  Seer  and  Reve- 
lator,  a  man  of  God,  a  living  minister, 
endowed  with  inspiration  and  revela- 
tion, a  law-giver,  such  a  man  as  has 
rarely  ever  been  known  among  the 
children  of  men.  I  can  hardly  think  of 
one  who  has  been  superior  to  him 
among  the  prophets  and  patriarchs  of 
God.    Of  course,  the  Savior  is  far  in 


PRESIDENT  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


9 


advance  of  all  patriarchs,  of  all  proph- 
ets, and  of  all  men  in  the  earth,  that 
are,  that  have  been,  or  that  will  be.  He 
is  at  the  front  and  is  the  head  of  all. 
But  among  the  prophets  of  God  born  of 
women,  no  man  has  been  superior  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  This  con- 
gregation of  thousands  of  people  know 
it.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  know  it  well.  We  have  en- 
tered into  covenant  with  the  Lord,  we 
have  become  acquainted  with  the  doc- 
trines and  principles  of  the  Gospel,  we 
have  demonstrated  and  see  and  know 
most  perfectly  that  they  are  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation.  Hence  we  are 
not  ashamed  of  these  principles.  We 
love  them  and  we  honor  them,  and 
through  our  love  and  devotion  and 
faithfulness  to  this  cause  we  have  ob- 
tained that  remarkable  testimony, 
which  makes  it  difficult,  if  not  impossi- 
ble, for  our  brethren  of  other  denomi- 
nations to  convert  us  to  their  ways. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  possess  the 
truth,  and  have  many  principles  of 
truth  in  addition  to  what  is  possessed 
by  the  people  of  the  world.  Of  course, 
we  are  peculiar  for  a- number  of  rea- 
sons. It  is  our  peculiarities  that  make 
us  different  from  other  Christian  peo- 
ple. One  of  our  peculiarities  is  that  we 
gather  to  the  land  of  Zion,  to  those 
sections  of  the  country  that  have  been 
selected  and  set  apart  for  the  gathering 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Other  re- 
ligious denominations  have  their 
churches  and  their  branches  where  they 
are  successful,  but  they  do  not  gather 
as  we  do.  No  other  people,  that  I  can 
think  of,  at  present,  gather  together 
as  we  do.  This  doctrine  of  the  gath- 
ering is  one  of  the  remarkable  fea- 
tures of  this  church,  established  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

We  believe  also  in  the  building  of 
Temples,  and  have  built  several.  We 
believe  it  is  necessary  for  the  sal- 
vation of  the  people  living  and 
dead,  that  temples  should  be  built 
to  the  name  of  the  Lord  and  or- 
dinances performed  therein,  without 
which  men  may  not  enter  into  the  Ce- 
lestial Kingdom  of  the  Father.  No 
other  people,  so  far  as  I  am  ac- 
quainted, are  building  temples.  They 


build  houses  of  worship,  tabernacles 
and  the  like,  all  of  which  are  very  use- 
ful, and  we  build  them  also,  but  we 
are  remarkable  for  the  building  of 
temples.  There  are  doctrines  and  prin- 
ciples sacred  to  the  hearts  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  revealed  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  which  require  us  to 
make  the  sacrifice  of  gathering  togeth- 
ei\  of  building  temples  and  of  laboring 
for  our  kindred  that  are  dead.  The  liv- 
ing must  perform  that  work  for  them- 
selves or  forfeit  the  blessing,  but  those 
who  have  died  before  the  knowledge  of 
the  truth  was  among  the  children  of 
men,  we  believe,  are  entitled  to  salva- 
tion, especially  if  they  would  have  re- 
ceived the  truth  had  it  been  presented 
to  them.  We  feel  that  all  such  are  en- 
titled to '  salvation,  and  we  make  the 
sacrifice  that  is  necessary  for  their  re- 
demption and  for  their  union  through- 
out eternity.  We  believe  most  earnest- 
ly and  thoroughly  that  our  family  rela- 
tions that  we  enter  into  in  this  life 
will  continue  beyond  the  resurrection. 
This  doctrine  has  been  revealed  to  us 
by  the  Prophet  of  the  nineteenth  cen- 
tury. We  expect  that  those  relations 
so  sacred  to  men  in  this  life  will  con- 
tinue in  the  life  to  come;  and  we  have 
been  taught  to  be  true  and  faithful  men, 
and  we  are  such.  I  say  to  this  congre- 
gation that  wa  are  true  and  loyal  men, 
not  only  true  and  loyal  to  the  Church 
and  to  the  doctrines  that  we  have  re- 
ceived, but  we  are  true  and  loyal  among 
men,  honorable  as  neighbors  and  as 
citizens.  We  love  our  country,  we  love 
its  laws,  its  liberties,  its  institutions; 
we  love  the  people  of  our  nation,  and 
we  love  to  live  with  them,  to  neighbor 
with  them,  and  to  be  friendly  with 
them.  We  desire  to  share  with  them  in 
the  benefits  of  this  nation.  We  desire 
to  share  with  them  the  benefits  of  this 
city  and  of  the  states  and  territories  in 
which  we  reside,  not  only  in  the  United 
States,  but  where  we  have  spread 
abroad  into  the  neighboring  common- 
wealths of  Mexico  and  Canada.  Wher- 
ever we  settle  and  locate  we  desire  to 
share  with  the  people,  our  neighbors, 
the  blessings  that  are  given  to  man- 
kind. We  are  a  moral  people,  a  sober 
people,  a  God-fearing  people,  who  love 


10 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy.  Of 
course,  there  are  exceptions;  but  this 
is  a  rule  with  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  speak  of  those  who  are  faithful  and 
true  to  the  doctrines  of  the.  Lord  Jesus 
and  who  are  thoroughly  established. 
They  are  not  only  here  in  Salt  Lake, 
at  headquarters,  but  they  are  in  the 
cities  and  counties  north,  south,  east 
and  west  of  us.  You  cannot  find  a  lit- 
tle branch  or  ward  of  Latter-day  Saints 
but  what  they  are  so  thoroughly  settled 
and  established  that  an  innovator  can 
have  no  influence  over  them,  and  they 
cannot  be  converted  unto  any  other 
form  of  religion.  But  we  are  not  all 
Latter-day  Saints  here,  there  are  some 
of  us  who  are  fit  subjects  for  the  la- 
bors of  missionaries  of  all  denomina- 
tions, whom  they  may  make  converts. 
"We  thank  the  Lord  when  they  are  con- 
verted, if  we  have  been  unable  to  con- 
vert them  and  to  redeem  them.  If 
others  can  do  them  good,  the  Lord  be 
praised;  we  have  no  fault  to  find.  But 
Latter-day  Saints,  followers  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  walking  in  his  foot- 
steps and  in  his  doctrines  received  from 
the  Lord  Jesus,  can  no  more  be  turned 
from  their  faith  than  anything  in  the 
world,  for  they  do  know,  they  are 
thoroughly  converted,  and  they  are  es- 
tablished so  that  they  cannot  be  moved 
nor  led  astray. 

This  Church  the  Lord  has  estab'ished. 
He  laid  its  foundations  and  has  built  it 
up.  He  hath  taken  care  of  it  and  will 
preserve  it.  You  can  always  knew  just 
exactly  where  the  Church  of  Christ  is, 
for  where  it  is  the  darts  of  the  enemy 
are  always  directed,  and  particularly 
against  the  head  of  the  Church.  Was 
not  the  Savior  the  head  and  front  of  all 
offending-  in  his  life?  Was  not  every 
dart  of  the  enemy  directed  against  the 
Son  of  God  until  His  life  was  taken? 
And  after  Him,  His  apostles,  one  by 
one  were  destroyed;  for  at  that  tire 
the  people  would  not  endure  the  sound 
doctrines  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  And 
is  it  not  the  same  today? 
Did  He  not  tell  His  disciples 
that  if  the  world  hated  them  it  hue! 
Him  also?  The  world  loves  its  own;  the 
world  is  friendly  with  its  own;  and  if 


we  were  of  the  world  and  believed  as 
they  do,   worshiped  as  they  do,  and 
lived  as  they  do,  do  you  think  they 
would  find    fault  with  us    here?  No. 
We  believe  more  and  we  do  a  great  deal 
more  in  the  direction  of  the  saving  of 
mankind  than  any  other  body  of  Chris- 
tianity, and  for  that  reason  they  dislike 
us.    Our  lives  offend  them,  not  because 
we  are  wicked,  but  because  we  are  not 
of  them.    They  were  not  offended  with 
the  Savior  because  of  his  transgres- 
sions; they  were  not  offended  with  His 
apostles     because     of     their  sins. 
There  is  no  need  of  sentiment  being 
aroused  in  regard  to  people,    who  are 
wicked   and   corrupt,    for   the    law  is 
ready  to  take  hold  of  them;  and,  if  ww 
transgress  the  law,  we  are  subject  tp 
the  law  and  liable  to  be  handled  by 
it.      But  as  Latter-day  Saints  we  live 
above  the  law.      We  observe  the  law 
and  keep  it  sacred,  that  it  shall  not 
take  hold    of  us.     We  are  true  to  oui 
cities  and  counties,  to  our  state  and  tc 
our  nation.    We  are  loyal,  and,  as  I 
said  before,  we  love  the  institutions  of 
our  country.      We  thank  the  Lord  for 
the  religious  liberty  that  is  guaranteed 
in  the  United  States.     We  thank  Him 
for  the  protection  that  has  been  given 
to  this  Church  in  the  United  States,  and 
that  we  have  been  preserved  and  estab-= 
lished  so  solidly  that  we  are  in  no  dan- 
ger of  being  removed.      The  kingdom 
will  remain  with  this  people,  and  not 
with  any  other.     Many  have,  gone  out 
from  *n£>ng  us.      Among  them  have 
been  men  holding  great  and  important 
authority,  nearly  as  great  as  there  has 
been  in  the  Church— even  the  counsel- 
ors of  the  Prophet  Joseph.     He  could 
hardly  get  a  man  that  would  be  true 
to  him,  aside  from  his  brother  Hyrum. 
They  fell  one  by  one,  until  every  coun- 
selor that  he  ever  had  departed  from 
his  side.     But  he  was  true  and  faithful 
to  the  end,  and,  like  our  Redeemer,  he 
almost  trod  the  wine-press  alone.  There 
were  falfe  brethren  in  those,  days,  much 
more  than  today.    Though  the  Church 
was  on'y  few  in  numbers  at  that  time, 
false  brethren  were  many.     Now  look 
over  the  Church  today;  can  you  find 
a  Bishop,  a  Bishop's  counselor,  a  presi- 


PRESIDENT  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


11 


dent  of  Stake  or  his  counselor,  or  a 
High  Councilor,  can  you  find  a  Presi- 
dent of  Seventy,  can  you  find  a  pre- 
siding authority  in  any  mission  of  the 
world,  or  any  branch  of  this  Church, 
that  is  not  true  to  the  faith?  There  are 
individuals  occasionally  who  show  that 
they  have  received  a  bad  spirit,  b> 
which  they  are  led  astray,  but  you  will 
find  that  every  President  of  a  Stake 
and  every  Bishop  of  a  Ward  knows  just 
exactly  how  to  take  care  of  the  flock. 
They  are  trained,  they  are  inspired, 
they  are  established,  and  they  have  the 
same  testimony  turning  in  their  hearts 
that  burns  in  the  hearts  of  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  his  counselors  and  the 
Twelve.  I  wanted  to  draw  the  atten- 
tion of  the  conference  to  this  fact,  for 
there  are  representatives  here  from  al- 
most every  Stake  and  Ward  in  Zion 
You  all  know  that  what  I  say  is  true. 

When  missionaries  go  out  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  they  find  that  th<. 
people  are  so  thoroughly  trained  ana 
exrerienced  in  the  doctrines  of  tht 
Gospel  that  they  are  not  easily  deceived 
or  blinded.  The  work  is  so  established 
and  so  thoroughly  fixed  upon  the  earth 
that  it  will  endure.  You  will  find  the 
Latter-day  Saints  just  as  true  as  their 
leaders;  for  they  have  the  same  spirit 
and  the  same  testimony  burning  in 
their  hearts.  These  Pre=idenis  of 
Stakes,  these  presidents  of  cju'rums.ana 
these  men  who  stand  at  the  head  ot 
the  wards  and  the  missions  at  home  or 
abroad,  are  filled  with  the  same  in- 
spiration of  the  Lord.  They  know 
the  voice  of  the  true  shepherd  and 
they  do  not  know  the  voice  of  stran- 
gers, and  they  will  not  follow  them,  but 
they  will  follow  and  listen  to  the  true 
Shepherd.  That  is  my  testimony  to 
you,  and  J  thank  the  Lord  th",i  it  burns 
in  my  heart  as  it  does  in  yours.  Blessed 
be  those  who  are  fortunate  enough  to 
mfintain  their  standing  and  their  fel- 
lowship in  this  Church,  for  this  is  the 
Church  of  Christ.  It  is  not  the  Church 
of  the.  Prophet  Joseph,  it  is  not  the 
Church  of  any  of  his  successors,  or  of 
those  that  may  succeed  hereafter,  but, 


it  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ:  He 
has  established  it,  and  He  will  preserve, 
it  among  the  children  of  men.  Right- 
eousness shall  be  cultivated  among  this 
people;  corruption  and  wickedness  will 
not  be  tolerated. 

Speaking  of  the  experience  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  in  the  early  days,  I 
want  to  say  that  though  there  were 
many  who  turned  from  him,  yet  he  had 
true  and  devoted  friends,  who  stood 
by  his  side  and  sustained  him  to  the 
very  last;  and  he  rolled  upon  their 
shoulders  the  cause  of  the  kingdom.and 
they  have  been  true  to  that  trust.  This 
Church  has  been  taken  care  of  from 
that  time  to  this,  and  these,  men  have 
walked  in  the  footsteps  of  their  tile 
leaders,  in  the  footsteps  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  and  they  have  bui.'t  upon  the 
foundations  which  he  laid.  They  have 
magnified  the  doctrines  that  he  taught, 
have  sent  them  to  the  world,  have  ad- 
vocated the.m,  lived  by  them,  and  de- 
fended them  in  the  earth;and  the  fruits 
are  seen  throughout  this  mountain 
country,  where  the  Prophet  Joseph  saw 
by  vision  that  this  people  would  be  es- 
tablished. He  so  announced  it,  and 
was  prepared  himself  to  lead  the 
Church  into  this  very  location  if  his  life 
had  not  been  taken;  but  in  the  Prophet 
Bri°ham  he  found  a  devout,  faithful 
and  competent  successor.  The  Church 
has  been  established  and  stands  today 
on  foundations  that  shall  never  be 
shaken.  It  is  true  and  faithful.  It  is 
the  Lord's  and  He  will  take-  care  of  it, 
if  you  and  I  will  only  take  care  of  our- 
selves and  be  sure  that  we  are  faith- 
ful and  true,  and  that  we  are  not  de- 
ceived nor  darkened  in  our  minds. 

God  bless  you  and  all  Israel,  our 
neighbors,  our  friends,  and  all  that  love 
truth,  righteousness  and  justice,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 
We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet, 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 
We  thank  thee  for  sending  the  Gospel, 
To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  El- 
der Seymour  B.  Young. 


12 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

Conference  convened  at  2  p.  m. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the 
Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word! 

What  more  can  He  say  than  to  you  He 

hath  said — 
Tou  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have 

fled? 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Nathan- 
iel Smith. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "From 
afar,  gracious  Lord,  Thou  hast  gather- 
ed Thy  flock." 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

The  work  of  God  cannot  be  overthrown.— 
Unselfish  devotion  of  the  ministers  of 
the  Gospel. — The  rights  of  all  niank'nd 
guarded  by  the  Church. — Heroic  char- 
acter of  the  Church  leaders. 

I  am  pleased  »with  the  privilege  of  be- 
ing with  you  in  the  commencement  of 
this  conference.  At  the  April  conference 
I  had  been  absent  in  Mexico  and  did  not 
reach  here  until  the  last  session.  One 
year  ago  I  was  considerably  "under 
the  weather"  and  did  not  have  part 
with  you  in  the  conference  at  that  time. 
It  has  been  a  pleasure  to  me  this  morn- 
ing to  hear  the  songs  of  Zion,  and  lis- 
ten to  the  voices  of  our  brethren  in  in- 
structions, reporting  the  conditions  at- 
tendant upon  the  labors  of  the  elders 
of  the  church,  and  in  the  testimonies 
that  have  been  borne  concerning  your 
fidelity  and  faith  in  the  work  that  our 
Father  has  established  in  the  wrorld, 
with  the  promise  that  it  should  never  ba 
thrown  down  nor  given  to  another  peo- 
ple. That  promise  has  found  lodgment, 
I  believe,  in  your  hearts  and  has  re- 
mained with  you  in  the  midst  of  many 
trying  experiences,  and  will  in  the  fu- 
tue  remain,  imparting  hope  and 
strength  which  shall  cause  you  to  pos- 
sess the  fortitude  and  faith  necessary 
to  fulfill  the  missions  whereunto  you 
have  been  called  by  the  Almighty.  To 
me,  it  is  ever  a  joy  to  remember  those 
memorable  words,  and  wherever  I  have 
found  myself,  wrhether  at  home  or 
abroad,  whether  in  your  companion- 
ship, under  the  sound  of  your  voices, 
or  in  the  association  and  companion- 


ship of  men  of  the  world,  the  same  joy 
and  satisfaction  has  welled  up  in  my 
soul  as  the  remembrance  of  these  words 
has  come  up  in  my  mind.  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  no  cause  for  concern 
so  far  as  the  work  itself  is  concerned. 
It  is  a  heritage  of  the  Lord.  It  has  been 
sent  into  the  world  to  fulfill  a  great 
purpose,  and  they  to  whom  the  mes- 
sage of  glad  tidings  has  come  are  under 
the  obligation  to  fulfill  their  part  to  the 
best  of  their  ability,  based  upon  the  re- 
quirement that  he  who  is  warned  shall 
warn  his  neighbor.  In  this  connection 
we  remember  that  there  are  few  men 
in  this  congregation  but  what  have 
performed  this  sacred  duty  with  fidelity 
and  faith.  Consigning  their  families  to 
the  mercies  of  the  Lord,  they  have 
entered  the  field,  in  almost  every  land 
and  clime,  and  have  sought  to  free 
themselves  from  that  responsibility 
which  attaches  to  the  acceptance  of  the 
Gospel,  in  heralding  the  same  among 
their  fellow  creatures,  that  wdien  they 
stand  at  the  bar  of  the  Great  Judge 
and  the  books  are  opened,  and  they  are 
judged  out  of  the  books  from  the  things 
written  therein,  it  will  be  found  that  in 
fulfillment  of  the  sacred  obligation  and 
the  discharge  of  this  requirement,  their 
names  are  registered  there,  and  that  fi- 
delity and  faith,  the  love  of  our  Father 
and  of  His  children,  characterized  their 
lives.  To  this  end,  the  gray-haired  ones 
who  sit  under  the  sound  of  my  voice 
upon  this  occasion  have  ministered 
with  that  determination,  that  patriot- 
ism, and  that  love  that  only  a  love  of 
the  Supreme  Being  and  an  absolute  be- 
lief in  the  sacred  mission  entrusted  to 
their  care  could  cause  them  to  exhibit. 
When  I  look  upon  the  faces  of  these 
mothers  and  these  wives  who  are  con- 
gregated here  today,  I  remember  too, 
that  they  have  been  in  no  degree  less 
heroic,  or  less  lacking  in  that  abiding 
faith,  and  that  undying  determination  in 
connection  'with  the  work  to  which  they 
have  been  called  along  with  their  hus- 
bands, fathers  or  brothers.  They  also 
have  regarded  it  as  among  the  sacred 
heritages  of  the  human  race,  and  it  has 
been  their  determination  that  while 
husband  or  father  was  in  the  field  car- 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


13 


rying  the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy  to 
the  children  of  men,  their  homes  and 
their  firesides  should  be  guarded  from 
the  attacks  of  the  enemy,  and  their 
children  should  be  nurtured  in  the 
faith  which  is  dear  to  themselves.  And 
while,  perchance,  in  some  instances", 
these  children  may  not  have  been  as 
fully  equipped  in  the  faith  as  they 
should  be,  as  has  been  intimated  in  the 
remarks  of  presiding  brethren  this 
morning,  the  responses  that  have  been 
made  by  the  younger  members  of  the 
church  bear  witness  to  the  heroism  of 
their  mothers,  the  faith  of  their  fath- 
ers, and  the  honesty  and  Integrity  pos- 
sessed by  themselves. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  to 
be  numbered  with  a  people  such  as  you 
are.  I  rejoice  to  recognize  the  fact  that 
you  have  come  from  many  lands  and 
dimes,  and  that  you  abandoned  those 
lands  for  the  sake  of  the  truth.  I  have 
pleasure  in  the  fact  that  it  has  been 
my  privilege,  in  connection  with  my 
brethren,  to  meet  you  in  those  lands, 
to  bear  witness  of  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  in  its  fullness  and  purity,  to 
declared  that  the  Prophet  of  this  latter- 
day  dispensation  did  gaze  upon  the  face 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son;  and  we  bear 
that  witness  in  harmony  with  the  dec- 
laration that  went  forth  in  a  former 
day  that  an  angel  of  the  Lord  should 
fly  through  the  midst  of  heaven  having 
the  Everlasting  Gospel  to  preach  ta 
them.'  that  dwell  upon  the  earth,  to 
every  nal  ion,  to  every  kindred,  to  every 
tongue,  and  to  every  people.  I  have  re- 
joiced in  the  faithfulness  you  have  dis- 
played in  the  fulfillment  of  your  sacred 
duty  in  the  receipt  of  that  warning, 
in  the  carrying  of  these  glad  tidings, 
and  in  meeting  the  obligation  in  the 
manly  and  womanly  way  in  which  it 
has  been  done  by  the  heroes  and  hero- 
ines who  have  builded  these  western 
commonwealths  and  have  confronted 
the  trials  and  tribulations  incident  to 
the  establishment  of  homes  and  the 
upbuilding  of  many  sections  of  our 
land.  As  I  look  upon  the  faces  of  men 
who  are  sitting  before  me,  I  see  those 
who  have  sacrificed  every  interest  in 
the  world  for  the  cause  which  to  their 


hearts  was  most  dear,  and  I  recognize 
that  in  their  doing  this,  it  was  not  to 
please  President  Young,  it  was  not  to 
please  President  John  Taylor,  it  was 
not  to  please  President  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, it  was  not  to  please  Pres- 
ident Lorenzo  Enow,  it  was  not 
to  please  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  and  his  associaties.  but 
it  was  to  satisfy  their  own  consciences 
and  to  serve  that  Being  who  called 
them  by  the  voice  of  His  Spirit  to  an 
understanding  of  the  truth,  and  had 
written  it  in  their  souls  that  the  most 
sacred  duty  which  mortal  could  dis- 
charge was  to  live  and  minister  for 
the  reclamation  of  the  human  race,  to 
establish  in  them  faith  and  an  under- 
standing of  the  gospel,  and  to  minister 
in  the  temporal  concerns  of  this  life, 
that'  their  fellows  might  possess  the 
blessings  and  comforts  of  the  present 
and  have  joy  and  satisfaction  therein. 

The  gospel  we  'have  embraced  is  the 
truth.  It  came  from  the  Master.  It 
has  been  sent  to  renovate  the  world, 
to  re-establish  among  mankind  the  liv- 
ing faith  which  had  so  largely  depart- 
ed from  the  breasts  of  the  human  fam- 
ily, and  to  bring  them  to  a  comprenen- 
sion  of  the  responsibilities  they  owe 
to  the  Divine  Master.  Nothing  can 
stay  its  progress.  You  and  I  may  fall 
by  the  wayside;  we  may  lack  the  for- 
titude and  faith  to  endure  and  fulfill 
our  part;  but  the  work  itself  has  gone 
on  from  the  day  the  announcement  was 
made  of  the  administration  of  heavenly 
beings,  and  it  will  continue  in  its  on- 
ward march  until  every  nation,  kindred, 
tongue,  and  people  throughout  the  uni- 
verse shall  hear  the  glad  tidings  of 
great  joy  and  have  the  privilege  of  ac- 
cepting or  rejecting  the  same  in  the  ex- 
ercise of  the  agency  our  Father  has 
given  to  them.  I  trust,  that  in  the  ful- 
fillment of  our  duties,  in  the  discharge 
of  the  great  obligations  that  are  ours, 
our  hearts  and  minds  "will  never  waver. 
It  can  never  be  anticipated  that  this 
work  shall  be  made  popular  with 
the  human  family  at  large.  It  can 
not  be  expected  that  its  mission 
will  be  accomplished  without  op- 
position. It  must  meet  adverse 
elements,  it  must  overcome  obstacles. 


14 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


it  must  secure  the  ground  step  by 
step,  without  fear  and  without  favor, 
honoring-  our  heavenly  Father,  and 
maintaining  the  dignity  of  that  Priest- 
hood God  has  given  to  us — the  grandest 
heritage  that  was  ever  given  to  the 
children  of  men  in  any  day  and  age  of 
the  world. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Gos- 
pel may  abound  with  you  in  the  future 
as  in  the  past;  that,  true  to  the  obli- 
gations that  are  yours,  in  every  place 
and  in  every  station,  among  all  men,  no 
matter  who  or  where  they  may  be,  you 
may  know  where  you  stand,  and,  know- 
ing where  you  stand,  you  may  have  the 
faith  and  the  fortitude  to  express  your 
views  and  your  sentiments.  It  has  been 
my  experience  thus  far  in  life  that 
there  is  nothing  in  connection  with  this 
work  for  which  any  man  in  the  world 
need  blush.  There  has  been  no  revela- 
tion given  to  the  Prophet  for  which  we 
should  have  the  least  feeling  of  regret 
or  concern.  There  is  nothing  within 
these  statute  books  given  by  our  heav- 
enly Father  for  which  I,  as  one  of  His 
sons,  need  blush.  On  the  contrary,  I 
honor  Him  for  giving  the  same,  and 
purpose  in  the  fulfillment  of  life's  mis- 
sion, if  He  will  give  me  faith  and  for- 
titude so  to  do,  to  raise  my  voice  in 
their  defense,  and  to  stand  for  the  ad- 
vancement and  spreading  of  this  work, 
as  I  know  it  came  from  Him.  The 
same  is  true  not  only  in  regard  to  our 
membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  but  it  is 
true  in  regard  to  our  citizenship  in  the 
republic  of  the  United  States.  No  man 
of  standing  in  this  Church  has  ever 
in  my  presence  given  utterance  to  a 
word  that  would  cause  me,  in  any  sense 
of  the  word,  to  be  ashamed  of  my  citi- 
zenship in  this  glorious  land;  on  the 
contrary,  the  sentiment  and  fejeling 
that  has  ever  come  from  the  lips  of  the 
men  with  whom  it  has  been  my  priv- 
ilege to  mingle  has  been  to  preserve  our 
constitutional  liberties,  and  accord  the 
same  rights  to  every  other  man,  wheth- 
er he  be  Jew,  Pagan,  Christian,  Mo- 
hammedan, or  infidel.  So  long  as  he  in- 
terferes not  with  the  rights  and  liber- 
ties of  other  men,  his  liberties  should 


be  guarded,  his  rights  should  be  pre- 
served, and  he  should  be  honored  irt  the 
exercise  thereof,  and  his  rights  main- 
tained justly  and  properly.  Standing 
before  you  with  these  sentiments  in 
my  heart,  I  trust  that  we  will  continue 
to  maintain  the  highest  citizenship  it 
is  possible  for  mortals  to  do;  and  that 
we  shall  stand  for  our  own  liberties, 
that  we  shall  maintain  them  to  the 
best  of  our  ability,  be  subservient  to 
every  principle  that  is  right,  and  con- 
cede nothing  that  is  wrong,  but  stand 
by  the  truth,  honoring  the  Lord,  fulfill- 
ing our  obligations,  preaching  the  prin- 
ciples of  righteousness  to  the  children 
of  men,  and  pointing  the  way  of  life 
to  every  man  in  whose  company  it  may 
be  our  privilege  to  come. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  to  the  truth 
of  the  Gospel,  and  the  mission  of  Jos- 
eph Smith;  to  the  mission  of  his  asso- 
ciates that  stood  around  him  and  were 
true  to  him;  to  the  mission  of  Brig- 
ham  Young,  who  was  faithful,  earnest, 
devoted  and  of  a  heroic  mold,  and  who, 
had  he  not  been  of  such  type,  would 
have  failed  in  the  great  mission  that 
was  given  to  him;  honoring  and  es- 
teeming in  his  life's  ministry  that  he- 
roic man  whose  blood  mingled  with  the 
prophet  in  Cathage  jail,  John  Taylor; 
true  to  that  humble  and  earnest  advo- 
cate of  the  principles  of  the  gospel, 
one  of  the  most  successful  that  ever 
preached  it  in  the  world, Wilford  Wood- 
ruff; and  to  that  upright  man  of  the 
Lord,  Lorenzo  Snow,  who  presided  in 
righteousness  over  this  people.  And  I 
will  not  in  any  degree  slacken  in  my 
allegiance  and  respect  for  the  man  who 
stands  at  our  head  today.  No  truer 
man  ever  breathed  the  breath  of  life. 
No  man  has  ever  been  more  willing  to 
stand  up  for  the  principles  of  justice 
and  mercy.  No  man  has  been  more  ioy- 
al  in  preaching  the  principles  of  his 
faith.  No  man  is  more  ready  today  to 
discharge  that  high  responsibility  and 
fulfill  every  obligation-  Sitting  by  his 
side  are  those  who,  commencing  in 
their  boyhood,  have  ministered  in  the 
interests  of  this  work,  and  who  have 
never  faltered  nor  turned  their  back 
upon  the  truth  in  any  place  or  station. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


15 


Such  has  been  the  character  of  the  he- 
roic men  who  laid  the  foundations  of 
these  commonwealths.  Such  'is  the 
character  of  the  men  who  stand  at  the 
head  of  these  Stakes  and  Wards,  and 
of  the  Seventies  and  Elders  who  have 
carried  this  gospel  to  the  nations,  and 
also  of  the  mothers  who  have  guarded 
their  hearthstones  and  taught  their 
children  in  the  principles  of  eternal 
life.  I  bear  my  witness  to  this  work. 
I  know  that  it  is  from  the  Lord,  that 
it  has  come  to  stay,  that  it  will  con- 
tinue to  spread  and  increase  in  the 
world,  and  that  it  will  become  the  joy 
of  the  whole  earth.  May  God  bless  you 
with  faith  and  fill  you  with  under- 
standing; may  we  be  loyal  to  ourselves 
and  to  our  heavenly  Father,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

A  duet,  composed  by  Prof.  Evan  Ste- 
phens, entitled  "God  Bless  and  Guard 
Our  Mountain  Home,"  was  effectively 
rendered  by  George  M.  Cannon,  Jr., 
and  Noall  S.  Pratt. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

Great  responsibilities   on   those   who  re- 
ceive God's  commandments. — The  procla- 
mation of  the  Gospel. — Building  up  of 
Zion. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  very 
much  rejoiced  in  the  spirit  of  the  con- 
ference. I  listened  with  deep  interest  to 
the  testimonies  of  the  First  Presidency 
and  the  President  of  the  Twelve  at  the 
meeting  this  morning.  I  felt  that  it 
was  a  most  auspicious  opening  of  our 
conference,  and  the  congregation  which 
was  assembled  will  judge  as  to  whether 
they  spoke  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  or  by 
some  other  spirit.  I  am  sure  that  their 
words  found  a  response  in  the  hearts  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  not  only 
have  with  us,  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
living  oracles,  but  we  also  have  the 
Holy  Scriptures,  which  embody  the 
commandments  of  God  to  His  people 
and  to  the  children  of  men.  In  every 
age  of  the  world  when  the  Lord  has 
given  a  commandment  to  men,  it  has 
always  been  accompanied  by  a  heavy 
weight  of  responsibility.  We  have  ex- 
amples of  this  from  the  beginning.  You 
remember  that  Moses  went  by  instruc- 
tion into  the  mount  and  communed  with 


the  Almighty;  he  was  gone  forty  days 
and  forty  nights.  While  there  he  receiv- 
ed from  the  hand  of  God  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments. And  with  these  tables  of 
stone  that  were  intrusted  to  him  came  a 
very  great  responsibility — a  double  re- 
sponsibility, you  might  say.  In  the 
first  place  Moses  was  required  to  de- 
liver these  commandments  to  the  chil- 
dren of  Israel.  Now,  if  he  had  taken 
them  to  his  tent,  dug  a  hole  in  the 
earth  and  hidden  them  out  of  sight,  he 
would  have  stood  condemned  before  the 
Lord;  but  we  learn  that  Moses,  the 
law-giver,  discharged  his  duty  faith- 
fully and  well,  for  he  brought  the  com- 
mandments to  the  children  of  Israel.  A 
heavy  weight  of  responsibility  rested 
upon  the  people  with  reference  to  these 
commandments,  as  to  their  attitude  and 
the  manner  in  which  they  should  treat 
them.  If  they  failed  to  obey  the  com- 
mandments, they  would  be  answerable 
to  the  Lord  and  would  have  to  give  an 
accounting  to  Him  in  the  day  of 
judgment.  For  those  commandments 
were  not  only  binding  upon  Moses,  but 
they  were  binding  upon  the  whole  peo- 
ple; not.  only  upon  the  children  of  Isra- 
el, but  upon  the  entire  world.  There- 
fore, it  was  necessary  that  they  should 
go  to  the  world.  We  have  another  strik- 
ing example  in  the  day  of  the  Savior 
when  He  said  to  His  disciples:  "Go  ye 
into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  gos- 
pel to  every  creature."  You  will  ob- 
serve that  no  exception  was  made,  but 
this  message  was  to  go  to  every  crea- 
ture. "He  that  believeth  and  is  bap- 
tized shall  be  saved,  and  he  that  be- 
lieveth not  shall  be  damned."  With 
this  commandment  from  the  Messiah 
to  His  disciples  came  a  heavy  respon- 
sibility— a  double  responsibility.  In  the 
first  place,  they  were  required  not  to 
conceal  this  message,  not  to  keep  it 
back,  not  to  hold  it  for  themselves  and 
for  their  immediate  family  and  friends; 
but  the  message  of  the  gospel  was  to 
go  to  the  entire  world,  and  if  they  fail- 
ed to  discharge  that  duty  they  were 
under  a  very  serious  obligation  be- 
fore the  Lord,  and  they  would  have  to 
account  to  Him  for  it,  and  perchance 
the  blood  of    that    generation  would 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  been  found  upon  their  skirts.  But 
we  learn  from  the  Scriptures  that  they 
discharged  this  duty  ifaithfully  land 
well,  as  did  Moses  before  them,  for 
they  carried  the  gospel  in  all  humility 
and  in  faith  and  power  to  the  world. 
The  moment  they  did  this  a  very  great 
responsibility  rested  upon  the  children 
of  men,  as  to  whether  they  regarded 
the  message  as  being  divine,  and 
whether  they  would  accept  it  and  be 
governed  by  the  spirit  thereof,  and 
avail  themselves  of  the  opportunity  and 
the  mercy  of  the  Lord,  and  thus  obtain 
salvation;  otherwise  they  would  stand 
condemned  before  the  Lord. 

So  it  has  been,  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  our  day  and  time.  Joseph  Smith, 
the  prophet,  received  revelation,  not 
only  by  the  personal  visitation  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son,  but  also  in  the 
written  word.  Furthermore,  Joseph 
Smith  received  the  authority  of  the 
apostleship  and  priesthood  under  the 
hands  of  Peter,  James  and  John,  and 
also  under  the  hands,  of  John  the  Bap- 
tist, by  which  the  Melchisedek  and  the 
Aaronic  priesthoods  were  restored  to 
the  earth.  With  the  restoration  of  this 
authority  there  came  to  Joseph  Smith 
a  very  heavy  responsibility.  He  could 
not  be  justified  for  a  moment  in  keep- 
ing the  information  from  the  world.  He 
could  not  hide  it  away.  He  could  not 
call  around  him  his  immediate  family 
and  friends  and  indicate  to  them  only 
what  the  Lord  had  done,  but  he  must 
bear  the  message  to  the  whole  world. 
Growing  out  of  that  responsibility, 
there  has  been  established  in  the  church 
a  vast  system  for  proselyting,  which 
has  continued  to  this  day,  running 
down  through  >:he  years.  Elders  from 
this  church  have  been  continually  sent 
into  the  field  to  preach  the  Gospel, num- 
bering as  high  as  two  thousand  at  a 
time.  I  think  that  there  is  now  about 
twelve  hundred  in  the  mission  field.  I 
leave  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
judge  whether  any  degree  of  responsi- 
bility comes  with  the  invitation  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  this  Church  to  your 
sons  to  go  forth  and  proclaim  the  gos- 
pel message,  which  came  first  to  Jos- 
eph  Smith,   the   prophet.     Mark  these 


words  that  will  be  found  in  section  84 
of  the  book  of  Doctrine  &  Covenants. 
Speaking  of  the  early  Elders  who  were 
sent  out  to  preach  the  gospel  (and  you 
will  perceive  also  that  the,  language 
applies  to  Elders  of  our  day  and  time) 
the  Lord  says: 

Behold,  I  send  you  out  to  reprove  the 
world  of  all  their  unrighteous  deeds, 
and  to  teach  them  of  a  judgment  which 
is  to  come.  And  whoso  receiveth  you, 
there  I  will  be  also,  for  I  will  go  before 
your  face:  I  will  be  on  your  right  hand 
and  on  your  left,  and  my  Spirit  shall 
be  in  your  hearts,  and  mine  angels 
round  about  you,  to  bear  you  up. 

Whoso  receiveth  you  receiveth  me, 
and  the  same  will  feed  you,  and  clothe 
you,  and  give  you  money. 

And  he  who  feeds  you,  or  clothes  you, 
or  gives  you  money,  shall  in  no  wise 
lose  his  reward; 

And  he  that  doeth  not  these  things 
is  not  my  disciple;  by  this  you  may 
know  my  disciples. 

He  that  receiveth  you  not,  go  away 
from  him  alone  by  yourselves,  and 
cleanse  your  feet  even  with  water,  pure 
water,  whether  in  heat  or  in  cold,  and 
bear  testimony  of  it  unto  your  Father 
which  is  in  heaven,  and  return  not 
again  unto  that  man. 

And  in  whatsoever  village  or  city  ye 
enter,  do  likewise. 

Nevertheless,  search  diligently  and 
spare  not:  and  wo  unto  that  house,  or 
that  village  or  city  that  rejecteth  you,' 
or  your  words,  or  your  testimony  con- 
cerning me. 

Wo,  I  say  again,  unto  that  house,  or 
that  village  or  city  that  rejecteth  you, 
or  your  words,  or  your  testimonies. 

In  Section  75  it  is  said:  "And  it  shall 
be  more  tolerable  for  the  heathen  in  the. 
day  of  judgment  than  for  that  house. 
Therefore,  gird  up  your  loins  and  be 
faithful,  and  ye  shall  overcome  all 
things  ar.d  be  lifted  up  at  the  last  day." 

You  will  perceive  that  this  invitation 
•which  comes  to  the  young  men  of  Is- 
rael to  go  forth  and  bear  this  gospel 
message,  carries  with  it  a  heavy  weight 
of  responsibility,  first  with  the  Elders 
themselves,  for  if  they  reject  the  invi- 
tation, if  they  turn  away  from .  the 
voice  of  the  priesthood,  which  is  the 
voice  of  God.  if  they  refuse  to  perforrn 
this  obligation,  it  may  be  that  the  blood 
of  this  generation  will  be  found  upon 
their  skirts.  On  the  other  hand,  if  they 
discharge  this  duty  faithfully  and  well, 
you  perceive  that  there  is    a  heavy 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


17 


weight  of  responsibility  resting  upon 
the  people  of  the  world  who  hear  this 
message,  though  it  may  come  to  them 
in  a  humble  manner,  by  those  who  may 
possibly  be  unlearned  or  inexperienced, 
and  who  bring  it  to  their  doors,  from 
house  to  house,  and,  as  the  revelation 
says,  from  city  to  city.  If  they  reject 
it,  God  will  hold  them  to  a  strict  ac- 
counting and,  as  He  has  said  by  His 
own  voice,  "  it  will  be  more  tolerable  fojj 
the  heathen  in  the  day  of  judgment 
than  for  that  house  or  that  city." 

But  I  remind  you,  brethren  and  sis-> 
ters,  that  this  responsibility  of  preach- 
ing the  gospel  to  the  world  is  not  all. 
It  does  not  fully  cover  the  ground,  be- 
cause there  is  a  responsibility  resting 
upon  the  Elders  of  Israel  with  refer- 
ence to  the  building  up  of  Zion;  for,  as 
the  Lord  says,  every  heart  shall  be 
pierced,  and  every  ear  shall  hear.  This 
message  of  life  and  salvation,  too,  must 
not  only  go  to  the  strangers  and  to 
people  who  have  never  heard  ft  in  the 
world,  but  it  must  also  go  to  the  chil- 
dren of  Zion,  to  your  children  and  to 
my  children.  They  must  be  taught  and 
warned.  You  will  remember  what  the 
Lord  said  to  the  prophet  Ezekiel  along 
this  line: 

Son  of  man,  I  have  made  thee  a 
watchman  unto  the  house  of  Israel; 
therefore  hear  the  word  at  my  mouth, 
and  give  them  warning  from  me. 

When  I  say  unto  the  wicked,  Thou 
shalt  surely  die;  and  thou  givest  him 
not  warning,  nor  speakest  to  warn  the. 
wicked  from  his  wicked  way,  to  save 
his  life;  the  same  wicked  man  shall 
die  in  his  iniquity;  but  his  blood  will 
I  require  at  thine  hand. 

Yet  if  thou  warn  the  wicked,  and  he 
turn  not  from  his  wickedness,  nor  from 
his  wicked  way,  he  shall  die  in  his  In- 
iquity; but  thou  hast  delivered  thy 
sou!. 

Again,  when  a  righteous  man  doth 
turn  from  his  righteousness,  and  com- 
mit iniquity,  and  I  lay  a  stumbling 
block  befdre  him,  he  shall  die:  because 
thou  hast  not  given  him  warning,  h§ 
shall  die  in  his  sin,  and  his  righteous- 
ness which  he  hath  done  shall  not  be 
remembered;  but  his  blood  will  I  re- 
quire at  thine  hand. 

Nevertheless  if  thou  warn  the  right- 
eous- man,  that  the  righteous  sin 
not,  and  he  doth  not  sin,  he  shall  sure- 
ly live,  because  he  is  warned;  also  thou 
hast  delivered  thy  soul. 
2 


That  is  the  attitude,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, which  the  authorities  of  this 
church,  the  High  Priests,  Seventies  and 
Eiders,  and  the  authorities  of  the  les- 
ser priesthood,  bear  toward  this  peo- 
ple; They  are  called  to  be  watchmen 
upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  and  to  give 
notice  and  warning,  to  point  out  the 
evil  before  it  comes,  and  to  guard  the 
young  against  danger.  What  must  we 
think  when  we  learn  that  there  are 
many  who  bear  the  sacred  authority  of 
the  holy  priesthood,  who  are  careless 
and  indifferent,  and  who  fail  to  mag- 
nify this  authority  and  to  carry  the 
message  to  the  people?  Will  not  the 
displeasure  of  the  Lord  be  upon  them? 
Will  not  this  thing  be  required  at  their 
hands?  Will  they  not  have  to  give  a 
strict  account  of  the  priesthood  and 
power  which  they  have  received  from 
the  heavens?  This  responsibility  has 
been  passed  from  the  shoulders  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  now  rests 
down  upon  the  Elders  of  Israel  who 
have  succeeded  him,  and  who  are  on  the 
scene  of  action.  The  Lord  says  to  His 
servants:  "Behold,  how  great  is  your 
calling;  cleanse  your  hearts  and  your 
garments,  lest  the  blood  of  this  gener- 
ation be  required  at  your  hands."  I 
think  that  passage  will  be  found  in  sec- 
tion one  hundred  and  twelve.  It  is 
the  strict  injunction  of  the  Lord. 

I  rejoice  in  the  gospel,  in  the  author- 
ity of  the  holy  priesthood,  and  in  the 
power  that  is  manifested  by  this  people 
in  carrying  out  the  great  purposes  of 
Jehovah.  The  work  will  stand,  and  the 
will  of  the  Lord  be  accomplished,  as  we 
have  heard  it  from  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church  and  those  who  have  spoken. 
I  testify  to  this,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 

The  young  people  of  the  Church  loyal  to 
it  and  to  the  authorities.— Futile  efforts 
of  the  opponents  of  God's  work.— Ardu- 
ousi  labors  of  the  First  Presidency.— 
Trials  necessary.— The  Saints  will  be 
faithful,  and  victorious. 

I  desire,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  to 
express  my  gratitude  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  privilege  I  have  of 
standing  before  this  immense  congre- 


IS 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


gation  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  ex- 
pressing to  them,  in  the  few  moments 
I  have  at  my  command,  some  of  the 
thoughts  that  have  passed  through  my 
mind  during  this  conference.  I  am 
indeed  thankful  for  my  standing  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  am  indeed  thankful  for  the 
position  occupied  today  in  the  world's 
affairs  by  the  Church  and  by  the  peo  • 
pie;  and  "I  am  not  ashamed  of  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  for  it 
is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation."  I 
believe  with  all  my  soul,  and  with  all 
the  understanding  that  God  has  given 
me.  that  this  is  His  work,  and  that  it 
is  designed  to  redeem  the  earth,  to 
bring  light  unto  its  inhabitants,  to 
make  people  better,  and  to  ma\e  this 
planet  a  fit  place  for  the  second  corn- 
ing of  the  Lord  and  Master. 

I  have  had  a  great  deal  of  pleasure 
in  visiting  the  different  parts  of  our 
state,  mingling  with  the  people,  seeing 
the  conditions  surrounding  tuem.  and 
noting  their  loyalty  to  the  work  of 
God.  Brother  John  Henry  Smith,  in 
speaking  of  the  loyalty  of  the  gray- 
haired  men  and  women  before  him, 
touched  my  heart.  I  also  say  that,  not 
only  are  they  loyal  to  this  work,  but, 
if  I  am  any  judge,  the  young  people 
are  just  as  loyal  to  the  authorities  and 
to  the  institutions  of  the  Church  as 
were  our  fathers  in  the  past,  and  as 
they  are  today.  Our  brethren  have 
been  testifying  to  the  loyalty  which  is 
manifest  in  our  church  towards  the 
authorities,  and  especially  towards  the 
presidency.  I  feel  like  testifying  to 
you.  and  to  all.  that  this  great  work 
of  God  is  in  the  hands  of  honest,  up- 
right. God-fearing  men.  Assaults  are 
made  upon  us  from  all  sides.  Many 
claim  that  they  are  not  assailing  the 
"Mormon"  people,  nor  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  which  they  believe,  but  it  is 
the  leaders  they  are  condemning  mid 
finding  fault  with.  They  are  also  try- 
ing to  bring  distrust  of  the  authorities 
into  the  minds  of  the  Latter-da* 
Saints.  Why  are  they  assailing  tne 
principle  of  tithing?  Why  are  they 
trying  to  make  you  believe  that  every 
cent  paid  by  you,  for  the  forwarding 


of  God's  work  upon  this  earth,  is  being 
handled  by  dishonest  men  and  being 
spent,  not  for  the  work  Uself,  but  for 
the  aggrandizement  and  personal  bene- 
fit of  men?  If  I  had  the  uower  to  reach 
the  heart  of  every  honest  Latter- 
day  Saint,  and  if  I  had  the  confi- 
dence of  every  soul  that  heart  my 
voice,  I  would  testify  to  this  fact,  that, 
as  far  as  the  tithing  of  the  Church  is 
concerned,  not  one  farthing  is  spent 
wrongfully,  or  is  diverted  from  the 
channel  in  which  it  was  intended  to  be 
used.  O,  how  natural  it  is  for  our  op- 
ponents to  try  to  advance  some  argu- 
ment that  may  bring  distrust  into  the 
minds  of  people,  and  cause  apostasy 
in  our  midst.  They  think  they  have 
found  a  condemning  argument  in  the 
collec$ft>n  and  use  of  tithing,  and,  in 
calling  attention  to  it,  they  rely  on  the 
appeals  they  make  to  the  selfishness  of 
the  people.  But  the  evil  one  today 
plainly  sees  and  knows  as  well  as,  or 
perhaps  *better  than,  we  do,  that  this 
great  work  of  God  is  moving  on, spread- 
ing in  foreign  lands,  and  reaching  to 
the  farthest  ends  of  the  world.  It  is 
therefore  natural  for  his  emissaries  to 
cry  "fraud,  fraud."  We.  are  informed 
that  the  Church  is  building  meeting- 
houses and  establishing  headquarters 
upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  and  in  all 
the  great  countries  of  Europe.  Re- 
spectable, places  of  worship,  and  homes 
for  presidents  of  missions,  are  also  be- 
ing established  in  some  of  the.  principal 
cities  of  our  great  country.  The  Devi! 
sees  these  things  going  on,  and  he 
knows  there  must  be  something  done 
to  retard  the  work  if  possible,  and  in- 
citing the.  cry  of  "fraud,  fraud,"  is  one 
way  he  has  of  attacking  it.  He  thinks 
by  this  to  bring  distrust  into  the  minds 
of  the  people;  but  he  will  fail  in  this 
just  as  sure  as  the  sun  will  rise  to- 
morrow morning.  I  believe  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  who  have  the  Spirit 
of  God  in  them,  never  had  more  con- 
fidence in  a  man,  or  set  of  men,  than 
they  have  in  the  presidency  of  the 
Church  today.  I  wish  that  every  one 
could  read  the  heart  and  understand  the 
thoughts  of  the  presidency,  and  all 
others  who  are  trying,  in  their  humble 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


19 


way,  to  lead  and  direct  the  affairs  of 
this  people.  I  feel  that  if  it  were  pos- 
sible for  you  to  do  so,  you  would  not 
only  love  them  as  you  have  in  the  past, 
but  you  would  have  for  them  still 
greater  love;  and  the  confidence  you 
would  have  in  them  would  be  such  that 
you  could  pray  for  them  with  all  your 
soul,  and  uphold  them,  and  ask  the 
blessings  of  God  urion  them  in  the 
important  work  they  are  trying  to  ac- 
complish in  this  dispensation. 

Some  people  think,  as  I  have  heard 
it  expressed,  inspired  from  the  source 
of  all  misrepresentation  and  falsehood, 
that  the.  president  of  the  Church  does 
not  work,  and  that  he  and  his  counsel- 
ors do  not  give  the  attention  they 
should  to  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I 
wish  that  these  men  had  more  physical 
strength  than  they  have,  for  I  testify 
to  you  that  it  is  strained  to 
the  utmost.  I  go  into  their  of- 
fice and  I  see  almost  an  arm  full  or 
mail  brought  in  several  times  a 
day.  1  find  President  Winder,  eighty- 
three  years  old,  reading  aloud  almost 
every  letter,  and,  with  the  President 
of  the  Church,  and  the  other  counselor, 
attending  to  every  little  detail  that  is 
brought  to  their  notice  from  all  parts  of 
this  great  Church.  While  speaking  up- 
on this  subject,  I  feel  to  ask  the  breth- 
ren here,  who  hold  leading  positions  in 
the  Church,  as  well  as  all  members 
in  the  different  stakes  of  Zion  who  write 
letters  to  the  presidency,  if  it  is  abso- 
lutely necessary  for  you  to  write,  make 
the  letters  as  short  as  you  can,  but  do 
not  write  unless  it  is  necessary.  I 
would  advise  the  people  to  first  go  to 
their  Bishop,  and,  if  possible,  get  from 
him  the  advice  and  counsel  they  need; 
if  unable  to  get  it  from  him,  then  ap- 
ply to  the  presidency  of  the  stake,  and, 
if  it  becomes  absolutely  necessary  to 
appeal  to  the  First  Presidency.make  the 
communication  just  as  short  as  possi- 
ble, for  those  brethren  are  worked  al- 
most to  death.  I  feel  like  asking  the 
good  people  of  the  Church  to  bear  this 
in  mind  when  they  are  tempted  to 
write  long  letters  to  the  Presidency. 
I  have  absolute  confidence  in  the  ma- 


jority of  the  young  people  of  the  Church 
and  in  their  understanding  of  the  truth 
of  the  Gospel.  Being  born  in  the  Cove- 
nant and  reared  among  the  Saints,  I 
have  absolute  confidence  that  they  are 
net  going  to  be  tricked  or  turned  aside 
by  misrepresentations.  I  feel  that,  when 
fthey  stop  to  consider  and  compare 
things  as  they  are  today  with  condition? 
of  the  past,  they  will  be  led  to  say 
that,  as  far  as  they  are  concerned,  they 
will  be  loyal  and  true  to  the  fathers  and 
mothers  who  gave  them  birth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  hope  you 
will  never  be  discouraged,  and  never 
feel  that  God  is  going  to  abandon  this 
people,  for  He  never  will  as  long  as  we 
are  prayerful  and  feel  in  our  souls  to 
do  His  will,  according  to  the  wisdom 
and  light  He  has  given  us.  I  have 
thought  a  great  deal  lately  of  the  his- 
tory of  the  Church,  and  I  have  won- 
dered sometimes  whether  our  position 
as  a  people  is  any  different  today  than 
it  has  been  from  the  beginning  of  the. 
Church.  As  I  study  the  history  of  the 
people,  I  find  that  it  is  about  the  same 
as  it  always  has  been,  with  but  few  ex- 
ceptions. Whenever  there  is  a  great 
advance,  and  when  the  evil  one  sees  the 
Church  progressing  a  little  more  rapid- 
ly than  usual,  it  arouses  him  to  greater 
action.  I  read  here  the  word  of  the 
Lord  to  Joseph  the  Prophet,  while  he 
was  in  Liberty  Jail,  Clay  County,  Mis- 
souri, March,  1839.  At  that  time  pros- 
pects looked  very  black  to  him.  He,  the 
Prophet  of  God,  was  being  hounded  on 
every  hand,  and  every  kind  of  a  charge 
being  made  against  him.  His  heart  was 
heavy.  He  was  pondering  how  it  was 
that  these  things  should  come  to  a  man 
who  was  trying  to  serve  the  good  Mas- 
ter, and  while  in  that  condition  of  mind 
the  Lord  gave  unto  him  these  words: 

"And  if  thou  shouldst  be  cast  into 
the  pit,  or  into  the  hands  of  murderers, 
and  the  sentence  of  death  passed  upon 
thee;  if  thou  be  cast  into  the  deep;  if 
the  billowing  surge  conspire  against 
thee;  if  fierce  winds  become  thine  en- 
emy; if  the  heavens  gather  blackness 
and  all  the  elements  combine  to  hedge 
up  the  way;  and  above  all,  if  the  very 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


jaws  of  hell  shall  gape  open  the  mouth 
wide  after  thee,  know  thou,  my  son, 
that  all  these  things  shall  give  thee  ex- 
perience, and  shall  be  for  thy  good." 

I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that  our 
trials  are  given  us  for  the  same  pur- 
pose. We  are  to  be  a  tried  people.  "We 
are  to  be  thrice  tried,  as  the  Saints  of 
old.  I  believe  that  all  trials  are  given 
to  us  for  experience,  just  as  the  Lord 
permitted  them  to  be  given  to  Joseph 
in  the  early  days  of  the  church.  At 
this  same  time  the  Lord  said  to  him, 
"Thy  people  shall  never  be  turned 
against  thee  by  the  testimony  of  trait- 
ors." I  say  to  you,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  that  the  Saints  in  this  vast  con- 
gregation (and  they  are  but  representa- 
tive of  the  communities  in  which  they 
live)  will  never  turn  against  thee  by 
the  testimony  of  traitors. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  all  I  care 
for  is  that  we  may  live  as  God  wants 
us  to  live,  observing  all  the  require- 
ments made  of  us,  and  performing  the 
duty  that  is  incumbent  upon  us,  then 
all  will  be  well,  as  sure  as  He  has 
spoken  from  the  heavens.  As  I  travel 
among  the  people  and  see  the  feeling  of 
loyalty  and  truth  existing,  I  feel  in  my 
soul  to  say,  God  bless  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  all  their  interests,  in  their 
basket  and  in  their  store.  God  bless 
them  with  strong  testimony,  that  they 
may  know  the  voice  of  the  true  shep- 
herd. I  feel  in  my  soul  that  they  will 
know  it.  No  matter  what  transpires, 
or  who  may  come  in  our  midst  think- 
ing there  will  be  a  falling  away  from 
the  Church,  and  that  they  may  succeed 
in  gathering  in  the  lost  ones.  I  say 
there  never  was  a  time  when  the  peo- 
ple testified  with  more  fervency,  and 
with  a  deeper  feeling  of  love  for  our 
heavenly  Father  and  His  work,  than 
they  do  at  the  present  moment.  I 
bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  this 
work  is  the  work  of  God,  and  He  will 
make  it  triumphant  in  the  end;  we  will 
love  it,  and  be  loyal  to  it,  and  its  infer- 
ests;  and  we  will  be  loyal  to  every  in- 
stitution upon  the  earth  that  has  for 
its  object  the  advancement  of  mankind. 
We  will  continue  to  be  good  citizens  of 


this  nation;  we  will  uphold  and  pray 
for  it.  We  will  be  true  men  and  tru<* 
women  to  our  Church,  to  our  country, 
and  to  our  God.  May  God  bless  you,  I 
ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  HTRUM  M.  SMITH. 

Magnitude  of  the  work  of  God.— Abundant 
opportunities  to  acquire  knowledge.— 
Reasons  for  diligence  and  faithfulness.— 
Respect  for  local  authorities. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  greatly  de- 
sire that  you  shall  accord  me  the  same 
attention  you  have  extended  to  my 
brethren  who  have  spoken  already,  and 
that  you  will  assist  me  by  your  prayers, 
that  in  bearing  testimony  to  the  truth 
of  the  everlasting  Gospel  I  may  do  so 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord.  The  Latter-day  Saints  cer- 
tainly have  wonderfully  good  times 
when  they  gather  in  their  general  con- 
ferences. They  never  fail  to  come  to- 
gether in  the  spirit  of  prayer  and  with 
a  great  desire  in  their  hearts  that  the 
Lord  will  have  something  to  say  to 
them  through  His  servants  who  shall 
speak;  and  when  they  come  together  in 
this  spirit  they  never  fail  to  receive 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  that  word  which 
fills  their  souls  with  joy  and  thanks- 
giving, and  which  allays  any  doubt 
that  may  have  found  lodgment  in  their 
minds.  They  never  fail  to  be  built 
up  and  strengthened,  and  they  go  home 
after  the  conference  is  over,  feeling  that 
the  Lord  is  with  His  people. 

Now,  the  thing  that  is  on  my  mind 
this  afternoon  is  the  greatness  of  the 
work  which  has  been  introduced  into 
the  world  in  this  day  and  age  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  We  meet 
together  here  in  vast  numbers,  and  yet 
though  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  were 
met  together  they  would  only  be  a 
hand-full  compared  to  the  multitudes  of 
people  that  dwell  in  the  earth.  We 
have  been  highly  favored  of  the  Lord, 
in  that  He  has  sent  His  servants  unto- 
us  with  the  word  of  truth  and  of  reve- 
lation,  and  He   has  put  it  into  our 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


21 


hearts  to  receive  that  word  and  to  ob- 
tain a  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the 
revelation  which  He  has  given  to  the 
world.  We  younger  ones,  the  young 
men  and  the  young  women  of  Israel, 
who  have  been  so  highly  favored  as  to 
be  born  in  the  Church,  having  the  testi- 
mony of  the  truth  born  in  us  and  hav- 
ing the  seed  of  truth  grow  and  develop 
within  us,  most  assuredly  ought  to  feel 
thankfulness  to  our  Father  in  heaven 
for  it.  The  whole  world  still  lieth  in 
darkness.  "This  Gospel  of  the  King- 
dom must  be  preached  in  all  the  world 
as  a  witness  before  the  end  shall  come." 
The  angel  who  introduced  this  Gospel 
came  with  it  that  it  might  be  preached 
to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and 
people.  And  while  we  are  doing  a  great 
deal  towards  the  carrying  of  the  mes- 
sage unto  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
still  the  progress  we  are  making,  when 
we  consider  the  vast  amount  of  work 
that  must  be  done,  is  only  small,  and 
we  have  only  advanced  a  little  way. 

I  believe  all  that  has  been  said  ot 
the  Latter-day  Saints  by  our  brethren 
who  have  spoken.  I  believe  they  are 
the  children  of  God,  and  that  they 
have  the  testimony  of  the  truth  burning 
within  their  souls.  I  believe  they  love 
the  truth  and  desire  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord.  Yet  I  am 
constrained  to  believe  they  still  need 
more  labor  among  them  every  day  than 
ought  to  be  necessary.  I  believe  that 
they  should  be  firmly  founded  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth,  by  reason  of 
the  great  blessings  the  Lord  has  be- 
stowed upon  them,  and  the  great  means 
He  has  placed  in  their  way  whereby 
they  may  learn  of  Him.  They  have 
the  Holy  Scriptures,  the  Bible,  which 
contains  the  word  of  God;  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price;  they  have 
the  Journal  of  Discourses;  also  period- 
icals, books  and  papers  which  are  pub- 
lished from  time  to  time  containing  the 
discourses  and  inspired  words  of  the 
servants  of  the  Lord.  All  these  they 
have,  and  all  they  need  do,  if  they  have 
the  desire,  is  to  open  the  books  and 
there  read  the  word  of  the  Lord.  In 
addition  to  this  it  seems  essential  that 


the  Twelve  and  the  Seven  Presidents 
of  the  Seventies  shall  visit  the  various 
Stakes  of  Zion  and  spend  all  their  time, 
month  after  month,  year  after  year, 
exhorting  the  Saints  to  faithfulness.re- 
proving  them  at  times  for  wickedness 
and  folly,  laboring  to  keep  them, 
as  it  were,  to  the  line  and  from 
departing  by  degrees  from  their  full 
duty.  Now  this  is  what  I  think  ought 
not  to  be.  I  think  that  the  Saints  ought 
to  know  the  truth  as  well  as  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord.  They  ought  to  be' 
as  firmly  grounded  in  the  faith.  It 
ought  to  be  jast  as  impossible  to  move 
them  from  the  truth  as  it  is  to  move 
the  men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  the 
Church;  and  the  time  of  the  Twelve, 
and  that  of  the  Seventies  (who  labor 
among  thf.  members  holding  the  Priest- 
hood of  Seventy)  might  be  given  to 
these  hundreds  of  millions  of  people 
who  still  dwell  in  the  world  without  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth.  I  am  con- 
strained to  believe  that  if  the  same 
amount  of  inspired  preaching  of  the 
word  of  the  Lord  that  is  done  among 
the  Saints  were  done  in  the  world, 
thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of 
honest  souls  who  are  now  in  the  world 
might  be  brought  to  the  knowledge  of 
the  true  Gospel,  and  they  might  gather 
with  the  Saints  and  enjoy  the  blessings 
of  the  house  of  the  Lord,  and  there 
labor  for  their  own  salvation  and  for 
the  redemption  of  their  dead.  We 
ought  to  rely  a  little  more  than  we 
do  upon  the  Lord  and  upon  the  intel- 
ligence He  has  given  us  to  develop  the 
light  within  us,  to  become  better  in- 
formed, to  be  more  faithful  than  w& 
are,  notwithstanding  good  testimony  of 
our  faithfulness  may  be  borne  now. 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  no 
reason  in  the  world  why  the  Saints 
should  not  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord,  there  is  no  reason  why  they 
need  fail  to  do  their  duty  towards  the 
Lord  and  towards  their  fellow  men. 
Surely,  the  Lord  has  held  out  the  hand 
of  fellowship  to  us.  Truly,  He  has  not 
withheld  when  we  have  asked  Him. 
He  has  fulfilled  on  our  heads  the  prom- 
ise that  if  we  will  ask  of  Him  He  will 
give  freely  unto  us,  whether  it  be  wis- 


22 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


dom,  or  the  necessaries  of  lifei,  or  in- 
telligence, or  knowledge,  no  matter 
what  it  be,  if  it  is  for  our  good  and 
for  the  good  of  the  children  of  men.  He> 
has  not  withheld  it  from  us.  All 
things,  it  would  seem,  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  could  possibly  desire,  the 
Lord  has  given  freely.  We  ought  to 
be  His  people.  We  ought  to  hang  on 
firmly  and  steadfastly  to  the  truth. 
Great  will  be  the  condemnation  of  the 
Saints  if  they  fail  to  remain  faithful 
after  all  that  the  Lord  has  done  for 
them.  A  season  has  just  passed  that 
has  been  wonderfully  prosperous  and 
bounteous  to  the  Saints;  prosperity 
abounds  on  every  hand  temporally,  and 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  being  poured 
out  in  great  abundance.  Prophecy, 
revelation  and  the  gifts  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  are  also  enjoyed  by  them.  All 
these  things  the  Lord  has  done  for  us. 
Ought  we  not  then  to  be*  true  and  faith- 
ful in  keeping  His  commandments?  We 
ought  not  to  complain  if  our  stake  con- 
ferences come  and  go  and  we  do  not 
have  in  our  midst  one  of  the'  brethren 
known  as  the  authorities  of  the  Church. 
Why,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  all  men 
who  hold  the  holy  Priesthood  are  au- 
thorities in  the  Church, and  through  the 
Deacon  the  Lord  may  speak  unto  the 
people,  and  give  His  word  of  praise  or 
reproof,  or  bestow  upon  them  His 
blessing.  The  Priest  and  the  Teacher 
likewise.  The  Bishop,  the  High  Priest, 
the  Seventy,  the  President  of  a  Stake — 
all  of  these,  servants  of  the  Lord  are 
authorities  of  the  Church,  and  when 
you  have  them  in  your  midst  you  may 
hear  the  word  of  the  Lord  preached, 
you  may  hear  and  see*  and  feel  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Lord.  Therefore  you 
should  be  content.  You  should  not  feel 
to  complain,  even  though  one  of  the 
Twelve,or  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
or  even  the  First  Presidency, 
find  it  impossible  to  be  with  you. 
You  should  read  the  word  of  the  Lord 
from  the  books,  and  kneeling  down 
around  the  family  altar,  you  should 
commune  with  the  Lord  and  ask  Him 
for  wisdom,  judfiment  and  enlighten- 
ment. You  should  depend  more  upon 
Him  and  less  than  some  of  us  do  upon 


those  who  constitute  the  authorities  of 
the  church.  Then  turn  your  hearts,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  to  the  kindreds,  and  tongues, 
and  peoples,  all  of  whom  are  the  Lord's 
children,  who  are  scattered  throughout 
the  length  and  breadth  of  the  whole 
world  in  untold  numbers,  many  of 
whom  are  only  waiting  for  an  oppor- 
tunity to  hear  the  word  of  the  Good 
Shepherd.  Pray  not  only  for  your- 
selves, but  for  them  also.  Pray  that 
the  door  of  the  Gospel  may  be  opened 
to  them,  that  the  servants  of  the  Lord 
may  be  sent  unto  them,  and  that  those 
who  have  this  work  upon  their  shoul- 
ders of  carrying  the  Gospel  unto  all  na- 
tions may  be  at  liberty  to  go.  Say 
that  they  may  go  with  your  blessing, 
and  that  you  will  endeavor  to  more 
greatly  appreciate  the  local  authorities 
of  the  church,  some  of  whom  sit  round 
your  own  tables  and  hearthstones,  and 
are  your  sons,  husbands  and  fathers 
who  hold  the  holy  priesthood. 

I  was  going  to  read  from  the  Scrip- 
ture, but  I  have  almost  let  it  go  by: 

Again,  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like 
unto  treasure  hid  in  a  field;  the  which 
when  a  man  hath  found,  he  hideth,  and 
for  joy  thereof  goeth  and  selleth  all 
that  he  hath,  and  buyeth  that  field. 

Again,  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like 
unto  a  merchant  man,  seeking  goodly 
pearls: 

Who,  when  he  had  found  one  pearl  of 
great  price,  went  and  sold  all  that  he 
had,  and  bought  it.  (Matthew  18:  44-46.) 

Do  we  appreciate  the  kingdom  of 
God  in  this  way?  Do  we  value  it  above 
all  else?  Is  it  more  dear  to  us  than 
the  fruit  of  the  field,  than  the  treas- 
ures of  the  mine,  than  the  wealth  that 
can  be  gathered  from  all  of  the  avoca- 
tions and  occupations  of  life?  Do  we 
value  thi  %  kingdom  of  God  even  as  a 
goodly  pearl,  which  is  beyond  price?  I 
believe  we  do.  All  else  is  as  nothing 
when  compared  to  it,  and  we  would 
gladly,  if  need  be,  sell  all  we  had  to 
possess  it  and  make  it  our  own,  or  at 
least  to  become  a  member  in  the  king- 
dom. 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  cleave 
unto  the  truth.    Lay  hold    upon  th<» 


GENERAL,  AUTHORITIES. 


23 


"iron  rod,"  and  never,  release  that  hold. 
Go  forward  steadily  with  your  eyes  set 
upon  the  tree  of  life  until  you  are  par- 
takers of  its  fruit,  which  is  the  word  of 
the  Lord,  and  which  above  all  else  is 
most  joyous  to  the  soul  of  the  righteous 
man.  Be  faithful  all  your  days.  Pre- 
pare yourselves  to  help  in  the  work  of 
the  redemption  of  the  human  race;  and 
do  not  be  content  to  say,  "In  my  heart 
is  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  I  know 
the  gospel  is  true,  and  I  rejoice  in  it," 
and  then  stop.  Do  not  stop  there.  Say 
that  and  still  more:  "O  Lord,  make 
me  an  instrument  in  Thy  hands.  Make 
all  Thy  servants  who  have  been  called 
of  Thee  wonderful  and  powerful  in- 
struments in  Thy  hands,  that  this  same 
gospel  which  lighteth  my  soul,  and 
which  filleth  me  with  gladness,  may  be 
sent  unto  all  the  world,  that  my  neigh- 
bor, my  brother,  Thy  children,  may  re- 
joice in  Thee,  even  with  me,  by  being 
brought  into  Thy  kingdom."  May  the 
testimony  of  the  truth  ever  be  with 
you,  my  brothers  and  sisters.  May  the 
powers  of  evil  never  be  permitted  to 
tempt  you  from  your  duty  or  from  the 
path  of  right.  The  Lord  will  be  with 
you,  and  build  you  up,  and  make  you  a 
power  in  the  world  for  good;  and 
through  us,  yes  through  us,  even  as 
through  Father  Abraham,  because  of 
our  faithfulness  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord,  shall  the  whole 
world  be  blest  and  be  led  to  glorify 
God.  This  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  will  now  present  to  the  conference 
the  general  authorities  of  the  Church, 
and  also  the  authorities  of  the  auxiliary 
organizations,  with  such  other  officers 
as  may  properly  be  brought  before  this 
assembly,  for  your  vote.  It  is  expect- 
ed that  every  Latter-day  Saint  in  good 
standing  will  exercise  his  or  her  pre- 
rogative to  vote  for  or  against  the 
names  that  may  be  presented.  Of 
course,  we  do  not  expect  any  who  are 
not  members  of  the  Church  in  good 
standing  to  take  any  part  in  this. 
GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and 


Revelator  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

John  R.  "Winder,  as  first  counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  second  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Francis  M.  Lyman  as  president  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Quorum  of  Twelve 
Apostles — Francis  M.  Lyman,  John 
Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale,  Heber, 
J.  Grant,  John  W.  Taylor,  Marriner  "W. 
Merrill,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Rudger 
Clawson,Reed  Smoot.Hyrum  M.  Smith, 
George  A.  Smith  and  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose. 

John  Smith,  as  Presiding  Patriarch  of 
the  Church. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presidency 
and  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Pre- 
siding Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers 
and  Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies- 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  George  Rey- 
nolds, Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

"William  B.  Preston  as  Presiding  Bish- 
op, with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  Orrin  P. 
Miller,  as  his  first  and  second  coun- 
selors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  trustee-in-trust 
for  the  body  of  religious  worshipers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  historian, 
and  general  Church  recorder.  Andrew 
Jenson,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  A.  Milton 
Musser  and  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  as- 
sistant historians. 

As  members  of  the  general  Church 
board  of  education,  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  John 
Nicholson,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Rudger 
Clawson,  Joseph  M.  Tanner,  John  R. 
Winder  and  Charles  W.  Penrose. 

Arthur  Winter,  secretary  and  treas- 
urer to  the  general  Church  board  of 
education. 

John  Nicholson  as  clerk  of  the  confer- 
ence. 

Evan  Stephens  as  director  of  the  Tab- 
ernacle choir;  J.  J.  McClellan,  organist; 
Tracy  Y.   Cannon,   assistant  organist, 


24 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


and  all  the  members  of  the  Tabernacle 
choir. 

Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot,  Wm. 
"W.  Riter,  Charles  W.  Nibley  and  Aug- 
ust W.  Carlson,  auditing  committee. 

RELIEF  SOCIETY. 

Bathsheba  W.  B.  Smith,  president. 
Annie  T.  Hyde,  first  counselor. 
Ida  Smoot  Dusenberry,  second  coun- 
selor. 

Emmeline  B.  "Wells,  secretary. 

Clarissa  S.  Williams,  treasurer. 

Aids — Jane  S.  Richards,  Sarah  Jane 
Cannon,  Romania  B.  Penrose,  Susan 
Grant,  Martha  A.  Cannon,  Emma  S. 
Woodruff,  Julina  L  Smith,  Emily  S. 
Richards,  Ellis  R.  Shipp,  Julia  P.  M. 
Farnsworth,  Elizabeth  J.  Stevenson, 
Pbebe  Y.  Beatie,  Carrie  S.  Thomas, 
Alice  Merrill  Home,  Annie  Wells  Can- 
non, Priscilla  P.  Jennings,  Margaret  A. 
Caine,  Rebecca  E.  Little. 

Missionaries — Harriet  Ann  Badger, 
Sophia  T.  Nuttall,  Mary  A.  C.  Lam- 
bert, Mary  T.  Smith,  Elizabeth  S.  Wil- 
cox, Hattie  B.  Harker,  Priscilla  Smith, 

Emma  A.  Empey,  superintendent  of 
Relief  Society  nurses. 

Margaret  C.  Roberts,  Romania  B. 
Penrose  and  Ellis  R.  Shipp,  instruc- 
tors of  Relief  Society  nurses. 

Phebe  Y.  Beatie.  secretary  and  treas- 
urer of  Relief  Society  nurses. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL 
UNION. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  general  superintend- 
ent. 

George  Reynolds,  first  assistant  gen- 
eral superintendent. 

Joseph  M.  Tanner,  second  assistant 
general  superintendent. 

George  D.  Pyper,  general  secretary. 

George  Reynolds,  treasurer. 

Members  of  the  Board— Joseph  F. 
Smith,  George  Reynolds,  Joseph  M. 
Tanner,  Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  Levi 
W.  Richards,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  He- 
ber  J.  Grant,  George  Teasdale,  Hugh 
J.  Cannon,  Andrew  Kimball,  John  W. 
Taylor,  James  W.  Ure,  John  F.  Ben- 
nett, John  M.  Mills,  William  D.  Owen, 
Seymour  B.  Young,  George  D.  Pyper, 
Henry  Peterson,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  John 


R.  Winder,  James  E.  Talmage,  George 
M.  Cannon,  Horace  Cummings,  Josiah 
Burrows,  William  A.  Morton,  Horace 
S.  Ensign. 

William  A.  Morton,  business  manager. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  editor  Juvenile  In- 
structor. 

George  Reynolds  and  J.  M.  Tanner, 
assistant  editors. 

George  D.  Pyper,  business  manager. 
Juvenile  Instructor. 

GENERAL     OFFICERS      OF  THE 
YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IM- 
PROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  general  superinten- 
dent. 

Heber  J.  Grant,  and  B.  H.  Roberts,  as- 
sistants. 

Thomas  Hull,  secretary  and  treasur- 
er.- 

Evan  Stephens,  music  director. 
Horace  S.  Ensign,  assistant  music  di- 
rector. 

Aids — Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry 
Smith,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Junius  F.  Wells,  Rodney  C. 
Badger,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Edward 
H.  Anderson,  Douglas  M.  Todd,  Thomas 
Hull,  Nephi  L.  Morris,  Willard  Done, 
Le  Roi  C.  Snow,  Frank  Y.  Taylor,  Rud- 
ger Clawson,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph 
W.  McMurrin,  Reed  Smoot,  Bryant  S. 
Hinckley,  Moses  W.  Taylor,  B.  F. 
Grant.  Henry  S.  Tanner,  Hyrum  M. 
Smith,  William  B.  Dougall,  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Jr.,  O.  C.  Beebe,  Lewis  T.  Can- 
non, Philip  S.  Maycock,  Benjamin  God- 
dard,  George  Albert  Smith,  Thomas 
A.  Clawson,  Louis  A.  Kelsch.Lyman  R. 
Martineau. 

YOUNG   LADIES'   MUTUAL  IM. 

PROVEMENT  ASSOCIATIONS. 

Martha  H.  Tingey,  president. 
Ruth  M.  Fox,  first  counselor. 

Mae  Taylor  Nystrom,  second  coun- 
selor. 

Ann  M.  Cannon,  secretary. 
Agnes  Campbell,  assistant  secretary. 
Alice  K.  Smith,  treasurer. 
Maria  Y.  Dougall,  honorary  member. 
Alice  Calder  Tuddenham,  music  di- 
rector. 
Mattie  Read,  organist. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


25 


Elizabeth  Thomas,  assistant  organ- 
ist. 

Aids— Adella  W.  Eardley,  Sarah  Ed- 
ding-ton,  Agnes  Campbell,  Susa  T. 
Gates,  Minnie  J.  Snow,  May  B.  Tal- 
mage,  Joan  Campbell,  Emma  Goddard, 
Rose  W.  Bennett,  Elizabeth  C.  McCune, 
Julia  M.  Brixen,  Augusta  W.  Grant, 
Mary  A.  Freeze,  Estelle  Neff  Caldwell, 
Nellie  C.  Taylor,  Emily  C.  Adams, 
Mary  E.  Connelly,  Elen  Wallace. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATIONS. 

Louie  B.  Felt,  president. 
Lillie  T.  Freeze,  first  counselor. 
Josephine  R.  West,  second  counselor. 
May  Anderson,  secretary  and  treas- 
urer. 

Olive  D.  Christensen,  assistant  secre- 
tary. 

Vera  I.  Felt,  recording  secretary. 

Margaret  Hull,  chorister. 

Norma  Fenton,  Organist. 

Aids— Aurelia  S.  Rogers,  L.  L.  Greene 
Richards.  Isabella  S.  Ross,  Camilla  C. 
Cobb,  Euphemia  I.  Burnham,  Eliza  S. 
Bennion,  Edna  L.  Smith,  Josephine  G. 


Smith,  Ida  B.  Smith,  Clara  W.  Beebe, 
Edna  Harker,  Lilian  L.  Maeser,  Grace 
Folland,  Allfe  Howarth,  Annie  Wallace. 

RELIGION  CLASSES. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  general  superinten- 
dent. 

Rudger  Clawson,  first  assistant. 

J.  M.  Tanner,  second  assistant. 

Joseph  J.  Cannon,  secretary. 

Members  of  the  General  Board — An- 
thon H.  Lund,  Rudger  Clawson,  Joseph 
M.  Tanner,  Henry  Peterson,  Horace 
Cummings,  Joseph  W.  Summerhays, 
Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Hyrum  M.  Smith, 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
Louis  A.  Kelsch,  John  H.  Evans,  Wil- 
liam A.  Morton,  Joseph  J.  Cannon. 

President  Smith  announced  that  the 
congregation  had  voted  unanimously  in 
favor  of  all  the  names  submitted. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  beginning, 

"Our  God  we  raise  to  thee, 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Pa- 
triarch John  Smith. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Saturday,  October  7,  10  a.  m. 

Conference  was  called  to  order  by 
President  Smith. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn : 

Come,  let  us  anew,  our  journey  pursue, 

Roll  round  with  the  year, 
And  never  stand  still  till  the  Master 
appear. 

His  adorable  will  let  us  gladly  fulfil, 

And  our  talents  improve, 
By  the  patience  of  hope  and  the  labor 
of  love. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Helaman 
Pratt. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn: 

O!  ye  mountains  high,  where  the  clear 
blue  sky 
Arches  over  the  vales  of  the  free, 
Where  the  pure  breezes  blow,  and  th* 
clear    streamlets  How. 
How  I've  longed  to  your  bosom  to  flee. 

ELDER  GEO.  ALBERT  SMITH. 

Why  the  Saints  are  regarded  as  a  pe- 
culiar people.— The  duty  of  forgiving  one 
another.— Performance  of  duty  increases 
faith.— We  should  not  limit  ourselves  In 
good  works.— The  joy  of  eternal  associa- 
tion with  loved  ones. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  grate- 
ful to  my  Heavenly  Father  this  morn, 
ing  for  the  privilege  of  meeting  with 
you  in  this  house  of  worship.  While  I 
occupy  this  position  I  desire  an  interest 
in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  I  may 
be  inspired  by  the  Holy  Spirit  to  say 
such  things  as  He  would  have  me  say 
unto  you.  I  have  rejoiced  with  you  in 
the  remarks  that  have  been  made  by 
our  brethren  in  this  conference,  and  it 
has  been  joy  to  me  to  see  the  multitude 
of  Latter-day  Saints  present  upon  this 
occasion.  The  hymn  that  has  just  been 
sung  is  an  inspiration  to  us  who  live 


in  these  mountain  vales.  I  believe  the 
fervor  with  which  it  was  sung  is  an 
evidence  of  the  appreciation  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  for  the  blessings  of 
our  Father  upon  them.  We  are  called 
a  peculiar  people  because,  perchance, 
we  thoroughly  believe  and  obey  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Our  peculiarity 
lies  very  largely  in  the  fact  that  we 
believe  the  Old  and  New  Testaments 
actually  contain  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
as  far  as  they  have  been  translated  cor- 
rectly. We  also  firmly  believe  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  which  the  world  knows 
comparitively  little  of;  and  add  to'  that 
unwavering  belief  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  and  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  We 
regard  the  teachings  contained  therein 
as  revelations  of  our  Father  in  heaven 
to  His  children  who  dwell  upon  this 
earth.  It  is  not!  alone  because  we  have 
faith  in  the  books  referred  to  that  we 
are  considered  a  peculiar  people,  but  al- 
so because  we  confidently  believe  that 
our  Father  in  Heaven  has  spoken  in 
this  day  and  age.  In  fact,  we  know 
that  thore  is  communication  with  the 
heavens.  Our  brethren  and  sisters  of 
the  world,  generally,  do  not  acknowl- 
edge that.  We  believe  that  Jehovah  has 
the  same  feeling  towards  us,  the  same 
influence  over  us,  that  He  had  for  and 
over  His  children  who  lived  in  this 
world  in  times  that  are  past.  If  our 
peculiarity  went  to  the  extent  that  we 
lived  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
from  the  mouth  of  our  Heavenly  Fa- 
ther, then  we  would  indeed  be  a 
blessed  people.  We  do,  to' a  large  de- 
gree, live  by  the  testimony  that  has 
been  given  to  us  by  our  Redeemer,  and 
thus  far  we  are  a  blessed  people,  the 
acknowledged  children  of  the  Lord. 
There  is  one  thing  I  find  that  we  have 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 


27 


not  yet  learned  completely,  and  it  comes 
to  my  mind  this  morning,  that  is,  the 
disposition  to  forgive  one  another  our 
trespasses.  The  Lord  has  given  us  grea<i 
information,  has  revealed  His  mind 
and  will  unto  us,  has  taught  us  things 
that  the  world  know  not  of,  and,  in 
accordance  with  the  information  we 
have  received,  He  holds  us  responsible 
and  expects  us  to  live  a  higher  life,  a 
more  ideal  life  than  those  who  do  not 
as  fully  comprehend  the  Gospel  as  we 
do.  The  spirit  of  forgiveness  is  some- 
thing that  the  Latter-day  Saints  might 
with  profit  exhibit  more  fully  among 
themselves.  Sometimes  a  brother  in 
authority  has  offended,  in  some  way, 
one  of  the  members  of  the  Church, 
probably  unknown  to  himself,  and  that 
child  of  our  Father's  silenly  continues 
to  feel  hurt,  instead  of  doing  as  the 
Lord  has  commanded,  going  to  the  of- 
fending man  and  stating  to  him,  in 
kindness,  the  feelings  of  his  heart,  and 
giving  that  brother  an  opportunity  to 
say  to  him,  "I  am  sorry  I  have  offended 
you,  and  I  desire  that  you  shall  for- 
give me."  The  result  is  that,  in  some 
instances,  we  And  a  resentful  feeling 
existing  that  has  been  instigated  by 
Satan.  Now,  we  must  get  into  a  con- 
dition where  we  can  forgive  our  breth- 
ren. In  connection  with  this  matter,  I 
will  read  a  few  verses  from  the  eigh- 
teenth chapter  of  St.  Matthew,  begin- 
ning with  the  twenty-first  verse.  It 
seems  that  the  Apostles  were  with  the 
Master  upon  this  occasion,  and  Peter 
came  to  Him  and  said: 

"Lord,  how  oft  shall  my  brother  sin 
against  me,  and  I  forgive  him?  till 
seven  times? 

Jesus  saith  unto  him,  I  say  not  unto 
thee,  Until  seven  times  but,  Until  sev- 
enty times  seven." 

Then  the  Savior  gave  a  parable,  which 
I  will  not  take  time  to  read,  but  it  was 
a  parable  of  two  men.  One  of  the  men 
owed  his  lord  a  large  amount  of  money, 
and  he  come  to  him  and  told  him  he 
could  not  pay  what  he  owed,  and  asked 
that  he  might  be  forgiven  the  debt.  The 
lord  of  that  servant  was  moved  with 
compassion,  and  forgave  the  debt. 
Straightway  this  man  who  had  been 
forgiven  went  out  and  found  a  fellow- 


servant  who  owed  hinj  a  small  amount, 
and  he  demanded  his  pay.  The  poor 
man  was  unable  to  meet  the  obliga- 
tion, and  he  in  turn  a=ked  that  he 
might  be  forgiven  the  debt.  But  he 
was  not  forgiven;  on  the  contrary  he 
was  taken  and  cast  into  prison  by  the, 
one  who  had  already  been  forgiven  by 
his  lord.  When  the  other  fellow-ser- 
vants saw  what  had  been  done  they 
went  to  the  lord  of  this  man  and  told 
him.  and  he  Avas  wroth  and  delivered 
the  one  whom  he  had  forgiven  unto 
torment,  until  he  should  pay  all 
that  was  due.  His  soul  was  not  bis: 
enough  to  appreciate  the  mercy  shown 
him,  and  because  of  that  lack  of  chari- 
tv  he  lost  all.  At  times  we  find  little 
difficulties  arising  among  us,  and  we 
forget  the  patience  our  Father  in 
Heaven  exercises  towards  us,  and  we 
magnify  in  our  hearts  some  trivial 
thing  that  our  brother  or  sister  may 
have  done  or  said  concerning  us.  We 
do  not  always  live  that  law  which  the 
Lord  desires  us  to  observe  in  regard  to 
these  matters.  We  forget  the  com- 
mandment He  gave  to  the  Apostles  in 
the  words  of  the  prayer,  wherein  they 
were  told  to  pray  that  they  might  be 
forgiven  their  debts  even  as  they  for- 
give their  debtors.  I  feel  that  we  have 
to  learn  a  great  deal  in  this  regard.  We 
have  not  complied  as  completely  as  we 
should  with  the  requirements  of  our 
Heavenly  Father.  In  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  find  a  ref- 
erence made  to  this  matter  of  for- 
giveness, wherein  the  Lord  gives  a 
commandment;  it  is  contained  in  the 
sixty-fourth  section,  and  refers  to  us 
in  this  day.     It  reads  as  follows: 

"Nevertheless  he  has  sinned,  but  veri- 
ly I  say  unto  you,  I,  the  Lord,  forgive 
sins  unto  those  who  confess  their  sins 
before  me  and  ask  forgiveness,  who 
have  not  sinned  unto  death. 

"My  disciples,  in  days  of  old,  sought 
occasion  against  one  another,  and  for- 
gave not  one  another  in  their  hearts, 
and  for  this  evil  they  were  afflicted, and 
sorely  chastened: 

"Wherefore  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye 
ought  to  forgive  one  another,  for  he 
that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his  tres- 
passes, standeth  condemned  before  the 
Lord,  for  there  remaineth  in  him  the 
greater  sin." 


2S 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


(The  verse  last  read  is  the  one  1 
would  emphasize.) 

"I,  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I 
will  forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required 
to  forgive  all  men; 

"And  ye  ought  to  say  in  your  hearts, 
let  God  judge  between  me  and  thee, 
and  reward  thee  according  to  thy 
deeds." 

If  our  lives  were  such  that,  when  wo 
differ  with  our  neighbor,  if,  instead  of 
setting  ourselves  up  as  judges  one 
against  another,  we  could  honestly  and 
conscientiously  appeal  to  our  Father 
in  Heaven  and  say,  "Lord,  judge  be- 
tween me  and  my  brother;  thou  know- 
cst  my  heart;  Thou  knowest  I  have 
no  feeling  of  anger  against  him;  help 
us  to  see  alike,  and  give  us  wisdom 
that  we  may  deal  righteously  with 
each  other,"  how  few  differences  there 
would  be,  and  what  joy  and  blessings 
would  come  to  us!  But,  little  difficulties 
arise  from  time  to  time  which  disturb 
the  equilibrium  of  our  daily  lives,  and 
we  continue  to  be  unhappy  because  we 
cherish  an  improper  influence,  and  have 
not  charity. 

We  find  another  reference  to  this 
matter,  that  has  a  bearing  also  upon 
another  condition,  in  that  sometimes 
we  feel  uneasy  and  worried  when  we 
fail  to  do  what  our  Father  desires  of 
us.  A  man  who  is  living  in  accord- 
ance with  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
never  in  doubt  about  its  success;  but 
the  man  who  neglects  his  duty,  who 
fails  to  keep  his  covenants,  loses  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  he  then  begins 
to  wonder  what  will  become  of  Zion. 
Whenever  you,  my  fellow  laborers,  feel 
there  is  something  wrong  with  the 
Church,  go  into  your  secret  places  and 
kneel  down  before  the  Lord,  examine 
your  heart,  and  you  will  find  every  time 
that  there  is  something  in  your  own  life 
that  occasions  doubt;  the  tempter  is 
working  on  your  mind,  causing  you  to 
feel  that  perhaps  Zion  will  not  be  vic- 
torious. Whenever  you  are  doing  your 
full  duty,  you  will  know,  as  you  know 
that  you  live,  that  it  is  our  Father's 
work,  and  that  He  will  brinjj  it  off 
triumphant.  We  find  in  the  ninety- 
eighth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants the  following  reference: 


"And  again  I  say  unto  you,  if  ye 
observe  to  do  whatsoever  I  command 
you,  I,  the  Lord,  will  turn  away  all 
wrath  and  indignation  from  you,  and 
the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  you." 

This  is  the  word  of  our  Father  in 
Heaven  to  us. 

And  again  with  reference  to  patience 
under  persecution: 

'Now  I  speak  unto  you  concerning 
your  families;  if  men  will  smite  you,  or 
your  families,  once,  and  ye  bear  it  pa- 
tiently and  revile  not  against  them, 
neither  seek  revenge,  ye  shall  be  re- 
warded; 

"But  if  ye  bear  it  not  patiently,  It 
shall  be  accounted  unto  you  as  being 
meted  out  a  just  measure  unto  you." 

This  also  is  the  word  of  the  Master 
unto  us.  If  we  live  according  to  this 
law,  wo  will  grow  in  grace  and  strength 
day  by  day,  and  in  favor  with  our 
Heavenly  Father.  Faith  will  increase 
in  the  hearts  of  our  children.  They 
will  love  us  for  the  uprightness  and 
integrity  of  our  lives,  and  they  will  re- 
joice that  they  have  been  born  of  such 
parents.  I  say  to  you  that  this  com- 
mandment is  not  given  in  an  idle  way; 
for  the  Lord  has  declared  that  He  does 
not  give  any  law  indifferently,  but 
every  law  is  given  that  it  may  be  kept 
and  lived  up  to  by  us.  We  will  be  m 
this  world  only  a  short  time.  The 
youneest  and  strongest  of  us  are  sim- 
ply preparing  for  the  other  life,  and  be>- 
fore  we  get  into  the  glory  of  our  Fa- 
ther and  enjoy  the  blesings  that  we 
hope  to  receive  through  faithfulness,  we 
will  have  to  live  the  laws  of  oatience, 
and  exercise  forgiveness  toward  those 
who  trespass  against  us,  and  remove 
from  our  hearts  all  feelings  of  hatred 
toward  them. 

"And  again,  if  your  enemy  shall  smite 
you  the  second  time,  and  you  revile  not 
against  your  enemy,  and  bear  it  pa- 
tiently, your  reward  shall  be  an  hun- 
dred fold. 

"And  again,  if  he  shall  smite  you  the 
third  time,  and  ye  bear  it  patiently, 
your  reward  shall  be  doubled  unto  you 
four  fold; 

"And  these  three  testimonies  shall 
stand  against  your  enemy  if  he  repent 
not,  and  shall  not  be  blotted  out." 

There  is  a  disposition  on  the  part  of 


ELDER  GEORGE 

some  returned  Elders,  and  other  men 
who  hold  the  Priesthood,  and  women, 
who  hold  positions  in  the  Church,  to 
neglect  Sacrament  meetings  and  other 
important  duties,  and  to  confine  their 
labors  to  some  soecial  calling.  They 
may  be  officers  and  teachers  in  the  Sun- 
day school,  and  when  they  perform 
their  Sabbath  school  labor,  consider 
that  sufficient;  or,  they  may  be  Mutual 
Improvement  workers,  and  if  they  dis- 
charge their  obligations  in  that  regard 
they  consider  their  whole  duty  done. 
But,  this  is  an  erroneous  idea.  "We 
are  required  to  live  by  every  word  that 
proceedeth  from  the  mouth  of  our  Fa- 
ther in  Heaven.  We  are  expected  to  so 
conduct  ourselves  day  by  day  that,  if 
we  see  distress  or  want,  or  need  of  ad- 
vice and  counsel  on  any  occasion,  we 
should  forthwith  act  as  servants  ot 
the  Lord  in  very  deed.  We  find  in  the 
fifty-eighth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  a  reference  to  this  matter: 
I  desire  to  read  it  to  you,  because  it 
is  the  word  of  the  Lord  with  reference 
to  our  opportunities: 

"For  behold/  it  is  not  meet  that  1 
should  command  in  all  things,  for  he 
that  is  compelled  in  all  things,  the 
same  is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  ser- 
vant; wherefore  he  receiveth  no  re- 
ward. 

"Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxi- 
ously engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do 
many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and 
bring  to  pass  much  righteousness; 

"For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein 
they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And 
inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in 
nowise  lose  their  reward. 

"But  he  that  doeth  not  anything  un- 
til he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth  a 
commandment  with  doubtful  heart,  and 
keepeth  it  with  slothfulness,  the  same 
is  damned.  .  ' 

"Who  am  I  that  made  man,  saith  the 
Lord,  that  will  hold  him  guiltless  that 
obeys  not  my  commandments?" 

I  feel  that  we  are  representatives  of 
a  great  people.  We  have  met  together 
from  all  the  stakes  and  branches  of  the 
Church.  We  have  come  to  be  fed  by 
the  Spirit  of  our  Master.  When  we  go 
back  to  our  homes,  if  there  are  those 
among  us  who  are  indifferent  and 
careless,  it  is  our  duty  to  call  their 
attention  to  the  Scriptures  and  to 
bring  them  face  to  face  with  the  com- 


ALBERT   SMITH.  29 

mandments  of  our  heavenly  Father. 
There  are  many  young  men  who  are 
indifferent  and  careless,  but  who  pos- 
sess some  ability,  and  as  the  Lord  has 
said  in  this  revelation,  they  should  not 
wait  to  be  commanded,  but  volunteer 
to  go  forth  and,  in  the  authority  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood,  labor  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  souls  of  the  children  of 
men. 

Grateful  should  we  be,  that  in  the 
fastnesses  of  these  grand  mountains, 
our  feet  have  been  planted;  and  that 
the  Messiah  has  imparted  to  us  a 
knowledge  that  the  Gospel  is  true. 
Grateful  should  we  be  for  a  knowledge 
of  the  eternity  of  the  marriage  cov- 
enant. If  in  this  life  only  had  we  hope, 
we  would  indeed  be  of  all  men  most 
miserable.  The  assurfance  that  our 
relationship  here  as  parents  and  chil- 
dren, as  husbands  and  wives  will  con- 
tinue in  heaven,  and  that  this  is  but 
the  beginning  of  a  great  and  glorious 
kingdom  that  our  Father  has  destined 
we  shall  inherit  on  the  other  side,  fills 
us  with  hope  and  joy.  One  of  the 
greatest  evidences  to  me  of  the  divin- 
ity of  this  work  is  that  it  teaches  there 
is  eternal  life  on  the  other  side,  and 
that  there  will  be  a  reunion  there  of 
the  loved  ones  who  have  known  each 
other  here.  Consequently,  as  parents, 
we  may  well  be  patient  and  loving  to- 
ward our  children,  for  they  will  etern- 
ally abide  with  us  on  the  other  side, 
if  we  and  they  are  faithful.  The  few 
years  that  we  live  here  may  be  re- 
garded as  a  time  in  which  we  become 
acquainted,  but,  when  we  mingle  in 
the  other  life,  we  will  know  each 
other  better  than  we  have  here.  Grate- 
ful am  I  that  this  testimony  has  been 
given  me,  and  for  the  knowledge  that 
the  Savior  was  indeed  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  Thankful  am  I  for  the 
testimony  that  Joseph  Smith  was  in- 
deed a  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  and  that 
every  one  of  those  who  have  succeeded 
him.  in  the  exalted  calling  of  presi- 
dent of  this  Church,  have  been  inspired 
by  the  same  spirit  that  characterized 
Joseph  Smith's  life.  I  am  glad  to  add 
my  testimony  to  the  integrity  of 
Joseph  F.  Smith.    No  matter  what  the 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


world  may  think  of  him,  no  matter 
what  unkind  things  they  have  said  of 
him,  I  testify  to  you  that  he  is,  indeed, 
a  servant  of  the  Lord,  that  he  stands  at 
the  head  of  this  work,  by  Divine  ap- 
pointment, and  that  there  is  no  power, 
either  in  earth  or  in  hell,  that  can  de- 
stroy the  influence  our  Father  has 
given  to  him.  He  is  surrounded  by 
men  who  are  faithful  and  true,  men 
who  love  the  Saints  better  than  their 
very  lives,  men  who  devote  the  ener- 
gies and  cowers  that  God  has  given 
unto  them  to  your  blessing.  They 
leave  their  homes  and  the  comforts 
thereof,  and  labor  constantly,  not  that 
they  may  be  glorified,  but  that  you 
and  your  families  and  all  mankind  may 
be  saved  and  exalted.  Honor  and  love 
these  men,  sustain  them  with  your 
faith  and  prayers,  and  as  you  uphold 
them  in  the  positions  to  wrhich  they 
have  been  called,  so  will  our  Father 
in  Heaven  sustain  and  bless  and  mag- 
nify you  in  the  eyes  of  your  families 
and  those  with  whom  you  associate. 
May  the  peace  of  heaven  be  with  us. 
May  the  ensuing  meetings  be  a  joy  and 
blessing  to  every  one  of  us,  as  were 
those  of  yesterday.  May  we  have  the 
Spirit  of  the  Master  dwelling  within 
us,  that  we  may  forgive  all  men  as  He1 
nas  commanded,  forgive,  not  only  with 
our  lips,  but  in  the  very  depths  of  our 
hearts,  every  trespass  that  may  have 
been  committed  against  us.  If  we  do 
this  through  life,  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  will  abide  in  our  hearts  and  our 
homes,  which  may  God  grant,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANK  Y.  TAYLOR. 
(President  of  Granite  Stake.) 
I  desire,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  to 
•enjoy  the  same  good  spirit  that  has  ac- 
tuated the  remarks  of  the  brethren  who 
have  preceded  me.  I  feel  grateful  unto 
my  Heavenly  Father  that  I  can  bear 
my  testimony  to  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
and  that  we  have  servants  and  proph- 
ets of  the  Lord  ministering  to  us.  I 
have  been  much  impressed  with  the 
remarks  of  Elder  George  A.  Smith  this 
morning  on  the  spirit  of  forgiveness.  I 
feel  how  necessary  it  is  that  we  as  Lat- 


ter-day Saints  should  have  'this  in  our 
souls,  not  only  towards  those  who  a"re 
of  our  own  faith,  but  the  Savior  re- 
quires that  we  have  it  towards  all  men. 
In  connection  with  this,I  bear  testimony 
'that  I  have  been  acquainted  with  the 
authorities  of  this  Church  from  Pres- 
ident Young  until  this  day,  and  that  I 
have  witnessed  this  spirit  of  forgiveness 
in  the  hearts  of  all  those  prophets  and 
leaders  of  the  Church.  They  have  felt 
to  forgive  their  fellowmen.  I  was  not, 
of  course,  acquainted  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith;  but  my  father  was  inti- 
mate with  him,  and  hundreds  of  times 
I  have  listened  to  him  discourse  on  the 
merits  and  graces  that  characterized 
the  Prophet,  and  I  learned  to  love  him 
more  dearly  because  of  the  kindness  of 
his  heart  and  because  he  loved  all  per- 
sons, little  children  and  all.  I  remem- 
ber, a  year  or  two  ago,  a  man  bearing 
his  testimony  to  the  kindness  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  toward  little  ones,  and 
it  struck  me  as  being  very  similar  to 
the  character  of  our  Savior.  He  refer- 
red to  an  incident  when  he  was  a  little 
bare-footed  boy.  He  was  traveling  in 
to  Far  West,  and  it  was  inclement 
weather.  He  and  several  other  small 
boys  were  paddling  through  the  cold 
water  and  their  feet  were  chilled.  A 
man  came  along  on  horseback  and  he 
picked  them  up,  one  by  one,  took  a 
large  silk  handkerchief  out  of  his  pock- 
et and  tried  to  warm  their  benumbed 
feet.  It  is  only  a  little  incident,  but  it 
shows  the  kindness  of  the  Prophet's 
heart  toward  little  ones.  I  remember 
my  father  speaking  of  the  mobbings, 
trials  and  privations  he  endured  and 
I  being  but  a  little  boy,  unable  to  dis- 
criminate always  between  right  and 
wrong,  and  not  having  that  feeling  of 
forgiveness  which  the  Gospel  of  Christ 
brings  to  the  soul,  my  face  used  to 
blush  up  and  I  would  become  indig- 
nant, and  felt  in  my  heart  that  when 
I  became  a  man  I  would  resent  the 
wrongs  that  had  been  perpetrated  up- 
on our  fathers  in  establishing  this 
work.  My  father  used  to  smile  at 
me,  and  pat  me  on  the  back  and 
say,  "My  boy,  that  is  not  the  kind  of 
spirit   that   the   Gospel  leaves   in  the 


ELDER  FRANK  Y.  TAYLOR. 


31 


hearts  of  mankind;  as  you  grow  older 
you  must  learn  that  you  must  for- 
give." This  gospel  of  ours  is  designed 
to  save,  to  build  up,  to  bless  and  com- 
fort; and  it  is  not  right  on  our  part  to 
Tiarm  any  man.  I  have  been  acquaint- 
ed with  these  brethren.  I  have  listen- 
ed to  their  testimonies,  and  I  know  thav 
I  have  never  yet  listened  to  their 
voices  being  raised  to  harm  or  injure 
any  man.  On  the  other  hand,  their 
counsel  and  advice  has  been  uplifting, 
saving,  and  such  as  would  bless  and 
comfort  all  who  would  give  heed  to  it. 
I  know  that  they  have  been  good,  clean 
men,  and  I  know  their  advice  has  been 
good  and  would  bless  me  if  I  would 
only  carry  it  out.  I  honor  them  for  this. 
I  know  that  the  example  they  have  set 
in  this  community  has  been  good,  one 
that  anybody  could  imitate  with  profit 
and  blessing.  When  I  think  of  this,  I 
think  how  different  it  is  to  the  spirit 
that  has  characterized  some  of  our 
friends  who  do  not  have  the  same 
faith  that  we  have.  I  never  knew  the 
authorities  of  this  church  to  go  out  into 
the  world  condemning  mankind,  and 
pulling  them  down.  On  the  contrary, 
their  counsel  and  their  lives  have  been 
examples  to  live  up  to,  and  that  would 
benefit  and  bless  mankind.  I  have  met 
many  people  of  different  denominations 
in  the  world,  and  I  have  been 
anxious  to  learn  concerning  their  faith, 
to  find  out  what  they  possessed  that 
might  add  to  my  faith  and  increase 
my  knowledge,  but  I  never  had  one  of 
them  manifest  a  spirit  to  bless  me.  I 
have  had  them  by  the  score  point  the 
finger  of  scorn  at  me,  and  I  have  heard 
them  ridicule  the  best  men  of  our  com- 
munity, men  I  love  with  my  whole 
heart.  I  have  had  men  tell  me  that 
my  father,  who  I  knew  was  clean,  pure 
and  upright,  was  not  a  fit  man  to  as- 
sociate with.  Figuratively,  I  never  had 
one  of  them  hand  me  a  loaf,  when  I 
asked  for  it  they  have  given  me  a 
stone.  On  the  other  hand,  whenever  I 
have  gone  to  the  authorities  of  this 
church  they  have  given  me  comfort, 
and  peace.  The  spirit  that  seeks  to 
pull  down,  to  destroy,  and  to  harm 
mankind,  is  not  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 


Jesus  Christ.  The  genius  of  this  gos- 
pel is  to  build  up,  not  to  destroy;  it  is 
to  unite,  not  to  dismember;  it  is  to 
bring  peace  and  good  will,  not  to  bring 
sorrow  and  distress.  I  testify  that  when 
I  have  lived  this  religion,  and  done  my 
duty,  the  Spirit  has  brought  unto  me 
peace,  comfort  and  blessing.  As  I 
have  grown  older  I  have  learned,  as 
my  father  testified  to  me  when  I  was 
a  boy,  that  when  people  live  this  re- 
ligion and  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord  they  seek  to  build  up,  to  bless, 
and  to  comfort  mankind.  "When  I  was 
young  it  used  to  be  quite  a  testimony 
to  me,  and  it  is  today,  that  the  religion 
of  the  world  cannot  be  true  because  the 
followers  seek  to  destroy  the  character 
of  clean,  good  men,  and  to  pull  down 
this  work  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  I 
know  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  does 
not  actuate  men  to  injure  or  to  destroy, 
or  to  pull  down  any  people,  whether  in 
this  church  or  any  other  church.  The 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  does  not  actuate  peo- 
ple to  do  harm,  or  to  do  ill  of  any  kind. 
I  take  delight,  brothers  and  sisters.,  in 
sustaining  the  authorities  of  this 
church,  because  I  know  they  are  men  of 
God,  actuated  by  the  Spirit  to  bless  and 
comfort  us  if  we  will  only  follow  their 
teachings.  God  forbid  that  I  should 
forsake  them,  or  that  my  hand  should 
be  raised  against  them,  or  that  I  should 
indirectly  or  directly  be  a  party  to  any 
attempt  to  nullify  their  good  works 
and  bring  to  naught  that  which  they 
desire  for  the  blessing  and  comfort  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  If  we  will  heed 
their  counsels  we  will  be  happy  indeed, 
and  we  will  be  blessed  and  sustained 
by  our  Heavenly  Father.  I  have  no  fear 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  least 
about  this  matter,  because  I  know 
those  whom  I  come  in  contact  with, 
that  are  living  their  religion,  manifest 
unity  of  faith,  and  do  sustain  those 
who  preside  over  them.  I  know  that 
the  people  in  the  stake  over  which  I 
preside  sustain  the  authorities  of  "this 
church  with  their  whole  hearts, and  pro- 
pose to  continue  to  sustain  them. 

I  do  not  feel  that  it  would  be  wise  for 
me  to  continue  my  remarks.  I  love 
this  work,  I  love  the  authorities  who 


32 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


preside  over  us.  I  have  a  testimony 
of  the  truth  of  this  work.  As  I  live 
nearer  to  my  heavenly  Father  I  enjoy 
more  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  I  have 
more  happiness  and  peace  in  my  heart, 
and  I  feel  kindly  towards  all  mankind. 
May  the  blessing's  of  the  Lord  attend 
you  ever,  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

Sister  Annie  Shields  sang  beautifully 
a  solo  entitled,  "With  Verdure  Clad." 

PATRIARCH  JOHN  SMITH. 

Testimony  concerning  the  divine  calling 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.— Neces- 
sity for  following  the  promptings  of 
the  Holy  Spirit. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  with  a  ' 
feeling  of  pleasure,  also  of  regret,  that 
I  stand  before  you  on  this  occasion.  It 
is  a  pleasure  to  me  to  be  in  the  line  of 
my  duty.  It  is  a  pleasure  to  me  to 
look  at  the  faces  of  the  people  who  are 
present,  and  to  see  so  many  gathered 
here  to  listen  to  the  words  of  the  Lord 
through  His  servants.  It  is  with  re- 
gret that  I  realize  I  am  not  what  is 
termed  a  public  speaker.  It  is  seldom 
that  my  voice  is  heard  in  public,  and 
unless  you  give  me  your  faith  and 
prayers  to  bring  something  to  my  mind, 
it  will  be  a  hard  matter  for  me  to  say 
anything  profitable  to  you  on  this  oc- 
casion. I  have  a  testimony  to  bear  that 
this  is  the  work  of  God,  that  we  are  His 
people,  that  Joseph  was  a  prophet  of 
the  Lord,  and  that  he  gave  unto  us, 
through  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  the  principles  of  life  and  salva- 
tion, which  are  now  taught  to  the  peo- 
ple. On  many  occasions  I  know  that  the 
Lord  has  been  with  me,  and  has  in- 
spired my  sayings.  I  can  bear  testi- 
mony also  that  it  is  through  the  faith 
and  prayers  of  the  Saints  I  am  here 
now.  On  two  different  occasions  I  have 
been  physically  broken  down  by  over- 
work, but  the  faith  and  prayers  of  the 
Saints  have  prevailed,  and  I  am  here 
today,  and,  the  Lord  being  my  helper, 
I  shall  stay  with  you  sometime  yet.  I 
bear  testimony  that  that  which  we  have 
listened  to  thus  far  through  the  confer- 
ence is  just  and  true.  It  has  been  spoken 
by  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 


and  if  we,  as  a  people,  will  follow  the- 
instructions  we  have  received  it  will 
be  well  with  us.  In  my  travels  among 
the  people  of  late  I  have  noticed  that 
they  are,  as  a  rule,  striving  to  live 
their  religion  and  do  their  duty.  They 
are  striving  to  live  before  our  Heaven- 
ly Father  in  that  way  and  manner  that 
His  blessings  will  attend  them.  As  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  we  have  many  duties  to 
perform,  and  if  we  are  diligent,  and 
learn  to  listen  to  the  whispering  of  the 
Good  Spirit,  we  will  not  often  err  in 
judgment.  All  persons  have  a  good 
monitor  with  them,  and  If  they  will 
live  in  a  proper  manner  that  monitor 
will  direct  them  in  the  right  path,  and 
they  will  make  no  mistakes,  but  if  they 
are  careless  and  indifferent,  trusting  en- 
tirely to  their  own  judgment,  then  they 
are  liable  to  err.  Speaking  of  the  prin- 
ciple of  forgiveness,  we  find  that  it  is 
not  so  much  among  us  as  it  ought  to 
be.  We  should  strive  to  live  according 
to  the  old  adage,  "Do  unto  others  as 
you  would  they  should  do  unto  you." 
If  we  will  be  guided  by  the  True  Spirit, 
and  follow  its  promptings,  it  will  be 
better  for  us.  That  the  blessings  of  the 
Father  may  rest  upon  Israel  and  guide 
us  in  the  true  path,  that  when  our  time 
comes  to  go  hence  His  blessings  shall 
be  with  us  and  we  shall  be  prepared 
to  receive  all  that  He  has  promised  the 
-faithful,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  JACK. 

(President  of  Cassia  Stake.) 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  very 
thankful  this  morning  for  the  oppor- 
tunity I  have,  in  connection  with  you, 
in  attending  this  general  conference, 
of  the  church.  I  have  rejoiced  very 
much  in  the  testimonies  of  those  who 
have  spoken  in  this  meeting,  and  in  the 
previous  sessions  of  this  conference, 
I  have  a  testimony  that  our  brethren, 
who  have  addressed  us  have  spoken 
the  truth,  because  they  are  actuated  by 
the  spirit  of  truth.  They  are  men  of 
God,  engaged  in  the  work  of  salva- 
tion, and  I  know  that  their  words  are 
words  of  eternal  life.  It  is  an  exceed- 
ing great  pleasure  to  us,  living  as  we 


ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  JACK. 


33 


do  in  one  *of  the  remotei  stakes  of  Zion, 
to  have  the  privilege  of  coming  to  con- 
ference to  hear  the  words  of  inspira- 
tion that  fall  from  the  lips  of  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord,  and  listen  to  the 
sweet  singing  that  we  hear.  These 
things  cause  my  heart  to  rejoice,  and  I 
feel  continually  to  praise  the  Lord  and 
acknowledge  His  goodness.  I  desire  with 
all  my  heart  to  be  ah;e  to  serve  Him, 
to  keep  His  commandments  and  to  be 
instrumental  in  His  hands  in  seeking 
to  bring  to  pass  righteousness  among 
the  children  of  men. 

The  Cassia  stake  over  which  I  have 
the  honor  to  preside,  is  one  of  the 
small  stakes  of  the  church,  our  popu- 
lation numbering  only  3,231  souls.  Of 
this  number,  we  have  nine  hundred  and 
forty-four  children  under  eight  years 
of  age.  I  felt  very  pleased  yesterday, 
while  President  Smith  was  speaking  of 
the  limited  number  of  missionaries  now 
abroad  carrying  glad  tidings  of  sal- 
vation, that  it  is  our  good  fortune  to 
have  about  forty  brethren  from  Cas- 
sia stake  in  the  mission  field,  who  have 
gone  willingly,  yea,  gladly,  in  order  that 
they  may  assist  in  accomplishing  this 
part  of  the  work  of  the  Church.  The 
Stake  in  which  I  reside  is  one  of  the 
new  settlements  of  the  Church.  We 
have  within  our  borders  one  of  the 
great  government  projects  for  bringing 
water  upon  the  arid  lands,  and  through 
the  efficiency  of  the  servants  of  the 
government  in  this  work  much  is  being 
accomplished.  Many  thousands  of  acres 
of  land  will  be  brought  under  cultiva- 
tion, and  homes  can  be  made  by  thou- 
sands of  people.  We  have,  at  the  pres- 
ent time,  coming  into  that  part  of  the 
State  of  Idaho  people  from  nearly  all 
parts  of  the  United  States,  and  I  am 
very  pleased  to  note  that  they  are  men 
and  women  of  good  principles,  as  a 
rule.  They  are  honest,  industrious,  and 
friendly  toward  their  neighbors.  They 
have  not  come  with  the  predjudices  and 
animosities  that  our  missionaries  often 
find  in  the  east.  We  are  glad  to  ex- 
tend the  hand  of  friendship  to  all  such 
people.  The  time  will  come  when  that 
part  of  the  state  will  become  import- 
ant. We  hope  as  citizens  of  that  state 
3 


to  assist  by  our  efforts  in  helping  to 
bring  to  pass  this  change. 

Our  people  are  an  exceedingly  good 
class.  I  do  not  believe  it  would  be  pos- 
sible to  go  into  any  of  the  Stakes  of 
Zion  and  find  Latter-day  Saints  who 
are  more  sincerely  endeavoring  to  live 
their  religion  than  the  people  of  the 
Cassia  stake.  As  a  rule  they  are  liv- 
ing in  peace,  and  I  believe  they  possess 
the  spirit  of  forgiveness.  They  are  en- 
deavoring through  faith  and  prayer  to 
continue  in  possession  of  the  inspiration 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  leads  and 
guides  into  all  truth.  In  consequence 
of  the  newness  of  our  country  we  are 
just  beginning  the  erection  of  com- 
modious meetinghouses  in  our  wards. 
Wherever  we  see  these  houses,  we  look 
upon  them  with  the  thought  that  a  part 
of  the  means  used  for  this 
purpose  has  come  to  us  from 
the  Trustee-in-Trust.  and  when 
we  read  the  newspaper  agitation 
which  is  going  on  over  the  disposition 
of  the  tithes,  Ave  look  at  our  ward  meet- 
inghouses, our  Stake  meetinghouse,  our 
beautiful  Academy,  realizing  they  are 
monuments  to  the  credit  of  the  tithe 
payers,  and  to  the  beneficence  of  the 
authorities  of  this  Church.  I 
want  to  say.  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  behalf  of  the  saints  of  the 
Cassia  stake  of  Zion,  I  believe  there  is 
not  one  among  them  who  is  paying 
tithing  that  is  questioning  as  to  the  dis- 
position of  that  fund.  We  know  full 
well  the  men  into  whose  hands  it  comes, 
and  we  know  that  it  is  handled  as 
carefully  and  judiciously  as  any  mon- 
ey in  this  world  can  be  handled.  We 
have  implicit  faith  and  confidence  in 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  his 
counselors,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  the 
Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies,  and  in 
all  the  general  authorities  of  this 
Church,  because  we  know  that  they 
are  men  of  God.  We  are  endeavoring 
to  the  best  of  our  ability  to  uphold 
their  hands.  It  is  our  practice  to  go 
before  the  Lord  and,  in  the  earnestness 
of  our  souls,  ask  him  to  bless  and  pre- 
serve and  magnify  these  brethren.  I 
realize,  as  you  do,  that  the  Lord  has 
blest   them,   that   He   has  sustained 


34 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


them,  and  that  He  is  assisting  them 
in  the  very  important  duties  they  have 
to  perform. 

"We  are  endeavoring  to  assist  in  the 
building  up  of  the  Gem  State.  We 
see  in  our  state  immense  possibilities. 
"We  are  sustaining  the  officers  of  the. 
government  of  our  state.  "We  look  upon 
them  as  being  exceptionally  good  men. 
We  are  honoring  the  laws  of  the  land  in 
which  we  live,  both  local  and  general. 
This,  I  may  say,  is  a  characteristic  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  They  have  been 
taught  from  childhood  to  honor  the 
flag  of  our  country,  to"  obey  the  laws  o£ 
the  land.  This  is  being  done,  notwith- 
standing what  may  be  said  to  the  con- 
trary by  the  enemies  of  this  work.  We 
love  our  country.  We  honor  that  great 
and  good  man,  President  Roosevelt, 
who  stands  at  its  head.  We  look  upon 
him  as  a  man  of  destiny,  a  man  of  ex- 
ceptional power  and  ability,  a  man 
whom  we  believe  God  has  raised  up;  and 
his  influence  is  being  felt  in  the  west,  in 
the  reclamation  of  thousands  of  acres 
of  arid  lands  that  have  been  bleached 
in  the  sunshine  of  heaven.  I  say,  God 
bless  our  country,  its  laws  and  its  in- 
stitutions, its  officers  and  its  people.  I 
believe  that  the  gospel  has  inspired 
within  my  heart  greater  love  for  this 
country,  greater  veneration  for  its  laws", 
than  I  could  possibly  have  felt  had  it 
not  been  for  the  influence  of  the  gospel. 
I  believe  that  the  same  feeling  prevails, 
as  a  rule,  among  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  know  that  our  authorities  are  patri- 
otic, loyal  men.  If  there  is  one  individ- 
ual in  this  church  that  I  have  admired 
more  than  any  other,  it  is  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  because  I  have  lookei 
upon  him  as  a  model  among  men.  I 
have  watched  his  purity  of  life,  I  have 
observed  his  nobility  of  character,  I 
have  noted  his  sacrifices'in  his  labor  for 
the  benefit  of  mankind.  I  know  there 
is  a  man  standing  at  the  head  of  this 
church  at  the  present  time  whose  su- 
perior cannot  be  found  in  this  wide 
world.  That  is  my  testimony  and  my 
feelings  regarding  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  These  men  who  stand  at  the 
head  of  this  church  are  men  whose 
lives  are  exemplary.  They  are  men  who 


are  and  have  been  willing  to  sacrifice 
for  this  work  and  for  the  salvation  of 
the  souls  of  mankind.  It  cannot  be  said 
of  these  brethren  that  they  say  to  the 
rank  and  file  of  the  church,  go  hither 
and  thither  into  the  missionary  field, 
and  they  themselves  remain  at  home; 
but  as  you  know,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, all  of  these  general  authorities  are 
practical  missionaries.  They  have 
been  out  into  the  world.  They 
have  marked  the  path  and  led  the  way. 
They  have  brought  home  sheaves  for 
their  hire.  They  have  in  all  these  re- 
spects, and  in  all  other  respects,  set 
before  the  membership  of  this  church 
an  example  they  expect  us  to  follow,  and 
I  hope  we  will  not  be  unmindful  Df 
their  counsels.  I  thought  while  Presi- 
dent Smith  was  addressing  us  yester- 
day, how  few  of  us  have  attempted  in 
the  last  three  years  to  extricate  our- 
selves from  the  bonds  of  indebtedness: 
some  have  been  inclined  to  go  further 
into  debt,  and  have  reached  out  upon 
the  right  hand  and  upon  the  left,  and 
today  it  is  a  question  as  to  whether 
or  not  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  in  any 
better  condition  financially  than  they 
were  when  this  note  was  first  sounded 
by  the  prophet  of  the  Lord.  So  far  as 
I  am  concerned  as  an  individual  (I  do 
not  say  it  boastingly),  I  have  tried  to 
follow  the  example  of  these  brethren. 
I  have  taken  their  counsel  in  relation 
to  debt,  and  I  stand  today  an  example 
of  the  benefits  of  following  the  counsel 
of  those  who  are  in  authority  over  us. 
The  Lord  will  bless  us  if  we  will  do 
this,  we  will  get  out  of  debt  and  sur- 
round ourselves  with  the  necessaries 
and  comforts  of  life.  I  suggest  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  one  of  the  best 
ways  to  get  out  of  debt,  and  to  keep 
tout,  is  to  pay  as  we  go.  If  we  have 
not  money  to  pay  for  anything,  let  us 
Bo  without  it  until  we  get  the  money. 
We  have  demonstrated  that  in  our 
stake  in  the  last  sixteen  months.  In 
one  concern  where  there  was  a  debt  of 
some  ?23,000  hanging  over  the  institu- 
tion; today  it  is  practically  out  of  debt, 
by  reason  of  the  fact  that  the  directors 
adopted  the  system  of  requiring  the  peo- 
ple to  pay  cash  for  what  they  got.  It 


ELDER  CHRISTIAN  D.  FJELDSTED. 


35 


lias  enabled  that  institution  to  get  out 
of  trouble,  and  has  lifted  it  up  so  that 
today  it  is  independent.  I  recommend 
this  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  sug- 
gest that  we  adopt  a  cash  policy,  and 
pay  as  we  go.  While  doing  this,  let 
us  endeavor  to  live  our  religion,  attend 
to  our  prayers,  do  our  duty,  attend  our 
meetings,  and  seek  first  the  kingdom 
of  God  and  His  righteousness.  I  testi- 
fy to  you,  as  a  servant  of  God,  that  all 
other  things  will  be  added  unto  us. 
This  gospel  is  true*,  there  is  no  doubt 
about  that,  and  it  will  save  us  if  we 
will  live  according  to  its  precepts. 

May  the  peace  and  blessings  of  th  j 
Almighty  rest  upon  us.  May  the  in- 
spiration of  His  Holy  Spirit  enlighten 
our  minds,  quicken  our  understandings, 
enable  us  to  comprehend  the  truth 
when  we  hear  it,  and  cause  us  to  be 
united  in  all  the  affairs  of  life;  that  we 
may  be  forgiving  in  our  lives,  and,  as 
we  read  from  the  revelation,  seek  to 
forgive  all  men,  not  only  those  who  are 
members  of  the  church,  but  forgive  all 
men,  no  matter  'who  they  may  be.  If 
we  will  do  this,  the  Lord  will  in  the 
end  forgive  us,  and  will  lift  us  up  to 
Asalvaition.  Peace  b,e  unto  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  May  the  blessings 
of  the  Almighty  rest  upon  you,  and  His 
prosperity  attend  you  in  your  homes. 
I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Elder  John  Robinson  rendered  a  sa- 
cred solo  entitled  "Grant  Us  Thy 
Peace." 

ELDER  CHRISTIAN  D.  FJELDSTED. 

I  do  not  know  if  I  shall  be  able  to 
speak  loud  enough  to  be  heard  by  this 
vast  congregation,  but  I  esteem  it  a 
great  privilege  to  attend  this  confer- 
ence, a  privilege  I  have  not  had  for 
several  years.  I  can  truly  say  I  am  en- 
joying the  Spirit  there  is  in  this  con- 
ference. The  doctrines  we  have  listen- 
ed to  have  come  from  God,  and  the 
singing  has  been  quite  inspiring. 
Thanks  be  to  God,  we  are  living  in  a 
time  when  we  have  inspired  men  to 
lead  us.  I  have  been  in  Scandinavia  for 
several  years,  and  I  bring  kind  regards 
and  thanks  from  the  Saints  of  those 
countries,  for  the  liberal  feelings  man- 


ifested both  by  the  trustee-in-trust  and 
by  the  people  here  generally,  through 
whose  donations  we  have  been  greatly 
assisted,  and  we  now  have  some  very 
good  meetinghouses  in  those  countries. 
The  gosDel  is  spreading,  and  is  being 
preached  with  power.  I  can  say,  in 
behalf  of  the  Elders  who  have  been 
sent  from  home,  that  they  are  doing  a 
good  work.  They  are  fine  men.  You 
parents  whose  sons  are  out  in  the  field 
can  rejoice,  because  they  are  good  boys, 
they  are  doing  a  good  work,  and  they 
are  living  their  religion.  It  is  a  hard 
matter  to  learn  a  language,  but  even 
in  that  the  Lord  is  blessing  them  won- 
derfully. They  meet,  of  course,  with 
a  good  deal  of  opposition,  and  finding 
fault  with  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
by  our  friends  outside  of  the  church. 
I  have  told  them  we  have  not  originat- 
ed this  gospel,  neither  has  Joseph 
Smith  nor  the  other  leaders  of  the 
church;  it  originated  with  the  Lord, 
the  Creator  of  the  world,  and  if  you 
have  any  complaint  to  make  against 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  He  is  the 
individual  for  you  to  complain  against, 
not  Joseph  Smith,  nor  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  The  Lord  has  revealed  this 
grand  and  glorious  gospel.  He  appear- 
ed to  Joseph  Smith  and  introduced  His 
Son,  even  the  Savior  of  the  world,  who 
spoke  to  Joseph  Smith  concerning  the 
gospel;  and  that  is  where  the  complaint 
should  be  laid  if  there  is  any.  We  say 
that  the  principles  of  the  gospel  are 
true,  and  are  calculated  to  exalt  man- 
kind, to  bless  the  people,  and  to  bring 
salvation  to  the  human  family,  if  they 
will  obey  it.  My  brothers  and  sisters, 
it  is  for  us,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  to 
live  our  religion,  because  this  is  the 
work  of  God.  His  servants  who  stand 
at  the  head  of  His  church  are  leading 
Israel  in  the  way  of  salvation.  May  the 
Lord  help  us  that  we  may  do  our  duty, 
live  our  religion,  honor  our  Father  in 
heaven,  and  keep  the  covenants  we 
have  entered  into,  is  my  prayer,  for 
Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn: 

Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with 
Jehovah! 

Jesus  anointed  that  Prophet  and  Seer, 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


36 

Blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation; 
Kings  shall  extol  him  and  nations  re- 
vere. 

Benediction  by  Bishop  William  B. 
Preston. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion : 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam; 

Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 
each  nation. 
And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption 

will  come. 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Patriarch  An- 
gus M.  Cannon. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn: 

High  on  the  mountain  top  a  banner  is 
unfurled, 

Ye  nations  now  look  up.  it  waves  to  all 
the  world; 
In  Deseret's  sweet,  peaceful  land. 
On  Zion's  mount  behold  it  stand! 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


Permanence  and  perpetuitv  of  the 
Church.— Its  growth  and  development.— 
No  hiatus  in  its  history.— Kevs  given 
to  Joseph  Smith  not  to  be  taken  awav. 
—  Organization  of  First  Presidency.— It 
is    not    hereditary.— The   work    of'  God 

.  will  continue  and  abide  forever. 

It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  me  to  look 
upon  this  congregation.  We  have  come 
here  from  different  parts  of  this  state 
and  of  the  surrounding  states  and  ter- 
ritories that  we  might  associate  as 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  in  general  confer- 
ence. I  feel  for  one  that  we  have  been 
well  repaid  for  such  journeyings  as  we 
have  had  to  undertake  in  order  to  come 
here.  The  Spirit  that  has  prevailed  in 
this  conference  from  the  very  begin- 
ning has  been  such  as  to  give  comfort 
and  joy  and  confidence  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  assembled,  and  to  increase 
in  our  souls  a  determination  that  we 
will  serve  the  Lord,  that  we  will  keep 
His  commandments,  that  we  will 
sustain  His  servants  whom  He  has 
appointed  to  guide  and  direct  the  af- 
fairs of  His  Church  on  earth,  and  that 
we  will  place  ourselves  in  such  a  con- 
dition that  the  Lord  may  use  us  for  the 
accomplishment  of  His  purposes,  for 


the  upbuilding  of  His  kingdom,  for  the 
spread  of  truth  and  righteousness,  and 
to  help  prepare  the  way  for  the  com- 
ing of  Him  whose  right  it  is  to  reign 
over  all  the  earth.  I  am  sure  that 
every  person  present  who  knows  any- 
thing about  the  operations  of  the  Spir- 
it of  the  Lord  has  had  a  testimony 
in  his  or  her  heart  that  the  Lord  is 
with  His  servants,  that  His  power  at- 
tends their  ministrations,  and  that  they 
are  really  and  truly  engaged  in  the 
Lord's  work,  and  'not  in  the  work  of 
man  alone. 

A  remark  made  by  Elder  John  Henry 
Smith,  I  am  sure  was  thoroughly  ap- 
preciated by  those  who  heard  him,  and 
recommended  itself  to  my  soul,  and 
that  was,  that  the  Lord  in  the  latter 
days  was  to  establish  a  kingdom  that 
should  "not  be  given  to  another  peo- 
ple," that  should  not  be  overcome  of 
the  world  but  should  stand  forever,  and 
it  was  to  be  given  "to  the  people  of 
the  Saints  of  the  Most  High,"  and  they 
should  possess  it  for  an  everlasting 
kingdom.  Now,  we  understood  in  the 
beginning,  when  we  obeyed  the  Gospel 
of  Christ  and  became  members  of  this 
Church,  that  this  promise  was  in  rela- 
tion to  the  work  in  which  we  became 
engaged.  That  it  was  to  be  different 
from  former  dispensations.  That  while 
the  establishment  of  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  in  former  times  was 
such  that  it  was  temporary  and  was 
overcome  by  the  powers  of  evil — the 
world,  the  flesh  and  the  devil,  this  lat- 
ter-day work  was  to  continue  and 
abide.  That  it  should  not  cease,  but 
that  it  was  established  here  permanent- 
ly. We  applied  to  ourselves  the  remark 
of  the  Prophet  Isaiah  concerning  the 
great  latter-day  work,  that  the  truth 
which  the  Lord  revealed  to  us  should 
"not  depart  from  us  nor  from  our  seed, 
nor  from  our  seed's  seed,  from  hence- 
forth, even  forever."  We  understood 
that  while  those  former  dispensations 
only  lasted  for  a  time,  and  then  wicked- 
ness came  in  like  a  flood  and  spread 
over  the  earth,  that  the  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times  which  the  Lord 
ushered  in  through  His  servant  Joseph 
Smith,  was  to  continue  and  prevail  over 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


every  power  beneath  the  eternal  heav- 
ens, to  establish  truth  and  righteous- 
ness in  the  earth,  to  overcome  the  pow- 
ers of  evil,  and  bring  to  pass  the  pur- 
poses of  God  in  the  establishment  of 
His  kingdom  and  the  coming  of  Je- 
sus Christ,  our  Lord,  to  reign  as  King 
of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords.  That  while 
in  former  times  the  powers  of  the 
world  had  overcome  the  saints,  in  the 
latter  days,  in  the  last  dispensation, 
the  people  and  kingdom  of  God  were 
to  prevail  over  the  kingdoms  of  this 
world  and  the  powers  of  darkness,  un- 
til Satan  and  his  hosts  should  be  bound 
and  evil  should  be  exterminated  from 
the  earth,  and  righteousness  should 
come  in,  and  "a  king  should  reign  in 
righteousness  and  princes  should  rule 
in  judgment." 

Was  not  this  the  understanding  that 
we  had  in  the  very  beginning  of  our 
career  in  the  Church?  And  has  not  the 
Lord  strengthened  that  faith  in  our 
souls  by  the  manner  in  which  He  has 
caused  this  work  to  prevail  and  pro- 
gress in  the  earth?  When  we  look  up- 
on the  congregations  of  the  saints  in 
this  conference  and  realize  the  fact, 
repeatedly  stated  here,  that  we  are 
only  representatives  of  the  great  body 
of  the  Church  located  in  different  narts 
of  the  world,  we  may  exclaim  as  one 
did  when  the  telegraph  line  com- 
pleted, "What  hath  God  wrought!"  He 
has  brought  us  from  afar;  He  has  con- 
gregated us  here  in  the  mountains,  in 
fulfillment  of  that  which  He  predicted 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph,  that  be- 
fore the  Lord  should  come  "Zion  should 
rejoice  on  the  hills  and  should  flourish 
in  the  mountains."  Zion,  that  has 
brought  good  tidings,  as  the  Prophet 
Isaiah  predicted,  has  come  up  into  the 
high  mountain,  and  as  he  and  Micah 
both  predicted,  the  people  of  God 
have  come  from  the  nations  afar  off. 
They  have  gathered  up  into  the  heights 
of  the  mountains.  They  have  come 
here  "to  learn  the  ways  of  the  Lord  and 
to  walk  in  His  paths."  They  are  build- 
ing the  house  of  the  Lord,  as  he  fore- 
saw it,  "in  the  tops  of  the  mountains." 

An  effort  has  been  made  for  some 


37 

time  past  to  make  some  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  believe  that  at  a  cer- 
tain period  of  the  Church's  history 
there  was  a  great  hiatus,  that  the 
Church  became  disorganized,  as  it  were, 
because  Joseph  the  Prophet  died,  mar- 
tyred with  his  brother  Hyrum  for  the 
word  of  the  Lord  and  the  testimony 
of  Jesus,  and  that  because  the  quorum 
of  the  First  Presidency  was  disorgan- 
ized the  Church  was  disorganized  and 
rejected.  Now,  my  dear  brethren  and 
sisters  and  friends,  if  that  were  the 
case,  then  the  hopes  planted  in  our 
bosoms  by  the  power  of  the  Spirit  of 
God  in  the  beginning  were  vain,  the 
promises  made  to  the  Church  in  the 
start  were  not  true.  God  declared  that 
He  had  set  up  His  Church  upon  the 
earth  "in  the  last  days  for  the  last 
time,"  and  that  it  should  prevail  and 
should  not  be  prevailed  against.  The 
idea  that  the  disorganization  of  one 
quorum  of  the  holy  priesthood  disor- 
ganized the  Church  is  in  itself  an  ab- 
surdity, and  might  be  rejected  by  every 
sensible  Saint.  But  you  know  there 
are  evil  influences  abroad  in  the  earth, 
and  different  spirits  have  gone  forth 
to  deceive  the  children  of  men,  and  we 
who  are  the  servants  of  the  Lord  ought 
to  be  well  posted  on  these  matters,  so 
that  we  may  be  able  to  dissipate  doubt 
and  uncertainty,  and  explain  that  which 
may  seem  a  little  mysterious  to  some 
people  who  are  not  fully  in  the  light, 
because  we  do  not  all  have  the  same 
degree  of  faith.  Certainly,  I  believe 
that  the  congregations  that  have  as- 
sembled here  have  not  the  least  dubiety 
in  their  minds.  The  spirit  that  has  pre- 
vailed here  has  testified  of  this.  The 
unanimity  with  which  the  servants  of 
God  who  have  been  appointed  and 
called  to  lead  the  people  in  the  latter 
days  were  accepted  and  endorsed  by 
the  congregation,  without  any  dissent- 
ing voice,  testifies  to  this.  But  there 
are  others  who  are  not  up  to  the  mark, 
not  up  to  the  standard,  and  they  need 
encouraging,  and  need  to  have  things 
explained  to  them,  and  we  should  be 
ready  to  expound,  explain  and  exhort 
with  all  long-suffering,  that  the  faith  of 
the  saints  may  be  confirmed,  and  that 


38 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


they  may  understand  things  as  they 
are. 

Now,  when  the  Lord  established  the 
Church,  as  you  know,  it  was  but  a 
little  thing.  As  one  of  the  writers  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  said,  "out  of  small 
things  proceedeth  that  which  is  great." 
That  has  been  fulfilled,  so  far,  in  the 
history  of  this  Church.  Yet  this  is  only 
the  beginning  of  the  magnitude  of  the 
great  latter-day  work,  which  shall 
prevail  over  everything  that  is  evil  and 
establish  the  kingdom  of  God  in  all  the 
world.  When  the  Church  was  organiz- 
ed, only  six  members  were  present  at 
its  organization;  at  any  rate  that  num- 
ber took  part  in  the  legal  organization 
of  the  Church,  and  if  all  those  who  had 
been  baptized  at  that  time  were  count- 
ed they  would  make  a  very  small  num- 
ber. The  Church  gradually  grew  and 
increased.  It  illustrated  what  the  Sa- 
vior said  in  regard  to  the  work  of  God. 
It  came  forth,  "first  the  blade,  and  then 
the  ear,  and  after  that,  the  full  corn  in 
the  ear."  It  is  a  growth,  as  all  the 
works  of  God  are,  so  far  as  we  can  un- 
derstand. Even  the  worlds  commenced 
with  a  nucleus,  and  they  gradually  ac- 
cumulated and  grew,  as  God  ordained, 
until  they  filled  the  place  that  God  had 
appointed.  The  kingdom  of  the  latter 
days  was  to  be  like  "the  stone  cut  out 
of  the  mountain  without  hands,"  which 
was  to  grow  and  increase  until  it  be- 
came a  "great  mountain  and  filled  the 
whole  earth."  So  on  the  6th  day  of 
April,  1830,  when  the  Church  was  for- 
mally organized,  and  the  Prophet  Jos- 
eph was  accepted  as  the  first  Elder  in 
the  Church,  and  as  a  prophet,  a  seer 
and  a  revelator,  and  the  people  were 
commanded  to  observe  all  things  that 
he  brought  forth  by  the  power  and 
Spirit  of  God — on  that  day  there  were 
not  enough  persons  in  the  Church  to  or- 
ganize it  in  its  fulness.  It  was  like  the 
little  blade  that  comes  out  of  the 
ground  after  the  seed  is  planted;  but 
as  the  years  rolled  on  the  Church  in- 
creased in  numbers,  and  the  Lord 
brought  into  use  the  different  men  and 
women  who  came  into  the  Church,  that 
they  might  be  utilized  for  the  purpose 
of  spreading  the  Gospel  and  building 


up  His  kingdom  in  the  latter  days.  The 
Lord  foreshadowed  that  at  a  certain- 
time  there  were  to  be  Twelve  that 
should  be  ordained  to  hold  the  keys  of 
carrying  the  Gps.pel  to  the  uttermost 
parts  of  the  earth.  And  so  various- 
quorums  and  organizations  were  added. 
They  grew  out  of  that  organization 
that  the  Lord  established  in  the  begin- 
ning. The  germ,  the  form,  the  potency 
of  it  was  right  there,  but  it  was  not  de- 
veloped. It  took  time  and  circum- 
stances and  people  to  bring  it  into  a 
condition  that  it  might  be  fully  organ- 
ized according  to  the  mind  and  will  of 
the  Lord. 

In  the  first  place,  the  Lord  gave  the- 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  presidency  of 
the  Church  and  the  keys  of  this  latter- 
day  work.  The  Lord  tested  and  tried 
him,  to  see  whether  he  would  stand,  be- 
fore he  conferred  upon  him  the  ful- 
ness of  the  power  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood to  build  up  His  kingdom  in  its 
fulness.  I  will  read  a  verse  or  two 
from  the  28th  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  which  shows  how  the 
Lord  led  along  His  servant  in  the  be- 
ginning, and  that  this  work  was  to- 
come  forth  by  degrees.  The  Lord  gave- 
a  commandment  to  Oliver  Cowdery  as 
early  as  September,  1830,  that  he  was 
to  speak  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  that 
he  should  have  the  revelations  of  the 
Lord  for  himself  and  to  aid  him  in  his 
teachings;  but  although  he  had  been  or- 
dained an  Apostle  when  the  Prophet 
Joseph  was  ordained  by  Peter,  James 
and  John,  he  was  not  to  command  the 
man  who  stood  at  the  head.  The  Lord 
said: 

"And  thou  shalt  not  command  him 
who  is  at  thy  head,  and  at  the  head  of 
the  church; 

"For  I  have  given  him  the  keys  of  the 
mysteries,  and  the  revelations  which 
are  sealed,  until  I  shall  appoint  unto' 
them  another  in  his  stead." 

Here  is  the  possibility  set  forth  that 
if  Joseph  was  not  true  and  faithful  in 
all  things,  another  might  be  appointed 
in  his  stead;  and  Oliver  was  command- 
ed not  to  counsel  him  or  to  attempt  to 
command  him,  but  to  receive  the  word 
of  the  Lord  as  it  came  from  him. 

In  the  35th  section  of  the  Doctrine 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


39 


and  Covenants — a  revelation  given  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon — the 
Lord  said: 

"And  I  have  given  unto  him  the  keys 
of  the  mystery  of  those  things  which 
have  been  sealed,  even  things  which 
were  from  the  foundation  of  the  world, 
and  the  things  which  shall  come  from 
this  time  until  the  time  of  my  coming, 
if  he  abide  in  me,  and  if  not,  another 
will  I  plant  in  his  stead." 

This  revelation  was  given  in  Decem- 
ber, 1830.  and  there  are  two  or  three 
more  of  the  same  kind,  given  in  the 
very  beginning  of  the  Church,  while  the 
Prophet  Joseph  was,  as  it  were,  on 
probation  before  the  Lord.  The  Lord 
gave  him  authority  and  put  him  into 
positions  where  he  could  be,. tried  and 
tested,  and  He  said,  "If  he  abide  not 
in  me,  another  will  I  plant  in  his  stead." 

I  will  read  the  2nd  verse  of  Section  65: 

"The  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
are  committed  unto  man  on  the  earth, 
and  from  thence  shall  the  gospel  roll 
forth  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth, 
as  the  stone  which  is  cut  out  of  the 
mountain  without  hands  shall  roll  forth 
until  it  has  filled  the  whole  earth." 

Now  I  will  read  from  the  43rd  Sec- 
tion, verses  3  to  7: 

"And  this  ye  shall  know  .assuredly 
that  there  is  none  other  appointed  unto 
you  to  receive  commandments  and  rev- 
elations until  he  be  taken,  if  he  abide 
in  me. 

'But  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you, 
that  none  else  shall  be  appointed  unto 
this  gift  except  it  be  through  him,  for 
if  it  be  taken  from  him,  he  shall  not 
have  power  except  to  appoint  another 
in  his  stead; 

"And  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  you, 
that  ye  receive  not  the  teachings  of 
any  that  shall  come  before  you  as  reve- 
lations or  commandments; 

"And  this  I  give  unto  you  that  you 
may  not  be  deceived,  that  you  may 
know  they  are  not  of  me. 

"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  he 
that  is  ordained  of  me  shall  come  in  at 
the  gate  and  be  ordained  as  I  have  told 
you  before,  to  teach  those  revelations 
which  you  have  received  and  shall  re- 
ceive through  him  whom  I  have  ap- 
pointed." 

There  is  still,  you  will  see,  the  opening 
left  that  if  Joseph  was  not  true  and 
faithful  and  worthy  of  his  calling,  an- 
other might  be  appointed  in  his  stead. 
But  I  want  you  to  mark  this  point: 
there  was  not  to  be  another  appointed 
in  his  stead  if  he  abided  in  the  Lord. 


It  was  only  if  he  transgressed  and  be- 
came unworthy  of  his  calling  that  he 
should  have  power  to  appoint  another. 
Just  put  that  down  in  your  minds.  So 
if  dividers  declare  that  somebody  else 
was  appointed  to  take  the  place  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  then  they  announce 
that  the  Prophet  did  not  abide  in  the 
Lord,  that  he  transgressed,  and  there- 
fore another  had  to  be  appointed  in  hid 
stead. 

In  a  revelation  given  to  the  Church 
September  11th,  1831,  the  Lord  said: 

"I  will  be  merciful  unto  you,  for  I 
have  given  unto  you  the  kingdom. 

"And  the  keys  of  the  mysteries  of  the 
kingdom  shall  not  be  taken  from  my 
servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  through  the 
means  I  have  appointed,  while  he  liv- 
e:h,  inasmuch  as  he  obeyeth  mine  or- 
dinances.—Doc.  and  Cov.  Section  64, 
verses  4,  5. 

Here  the  promise  was  made  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  he  should 
have  those  keys  as  long  as  he  lived,  if 
he  obeyed  the  commandments  and  or- 
dinances of  the  Lord. 

Our  testimony  is  that  he  lived  and 
died  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  he  seal- 
ed his  testimony  with  his  blood.  The 
Lord  promised  that  the  keys  should  not 
be  taken  from  him  while  he  lived,  in- 
asmuch as  he  obeyed  His  ordinances, 
so  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  taken 
away,  the  keys  were  with  him,  as  the 
Lord  promised  they  should  be,  both  in 
this  world  and  in  the  world  to  come.  I 
will  read  a  verse  from  the  112th  Sec- 
tion.   The  Lord  says: 

"Now,  I  say  unto  you,  and  what  I  say 
unto  you  1  say  unto  all  the  Twelve, 
Arise  and  gird  up  your  loins,  take  up 
your  cross,  follow  me,  and  feed  my 
sheep. 

"Exalt  not  yourselves;  rebel  not 
against  my  servant  Joseph,  for  verily 
I  sav  unto  you,  I  am  with  him  and 
my  hand  shall  be  over  him;  and  the 
keys  which  I  have  given  unto  him,  and 
also  to  youward,  shall  not  be  taken 
from  him  till  I  come." 

Here  is  the  promise  of  the  Lord,  not 
only  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
but  also  to  the  Twelve,  that  the  keys 
should  not  be  taken  from  the  Prophet 
until  the  Lord  should  come:  for  by  this 
time  he  had  been  tested,  proved,  and 
found  worthy.  As  he  himself  said,  he 
had  been  swimming  in  deep  waters  and 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


up  stream, and  he  had  struggled  against 
false  friends  and  those  surrounding  him 
who  professed  to  be  his  disciples,  but 
who  spoke  against  him  and  had  risen 
up  against  him.  '  Now  the  Lord  said 
to  him  and  to  the  Twelve,  that  the 
keys,  which  had  been  given  first  of  all 
temporarily,  as  it'  were,  until  he  should 
be  tested  and  proved,  should  abide  with 
him  until  the  Lord  should  come,  and 
with  the  Twelve  whom  He  had  called 
and  appointed.  Therefore,  rest  your 
souls  easy  in  this  security,  that  the 
kingdom,  as  the  Lord  says,  is  giv- 
en to  His  people.  I  might  read 
to  you  a  dozen  passages  from  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  showing  that  the 
kingdom  was  given  to  the  Church,  and 
it  was  to  abide  and  continue.  The 
Lord  said  "'I  have  sent  my  servants 
out  to  prune  my  vineyard  for  the  last 
time,  for  behold  this  is  the  eleventh 
hour."  His  servants  whom  he  had 
called  into  the  vineyard  were 
called  for  the  last  dispensation, 
and,  He  said,  the  keys  should  not  be 
taken  from  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
for  he  had  been  tested  and  proved  and 
found  worthy  before  the  Lord,  before 
the  angels  and  before  the  Church.  They 
should  not  be  taken  from  him  and  from 
the  Twelve  (that  is  the  promise)  "un- 
til I  shall  come,  saith  the  Lord."  So 
the  keys  were  to  abide  with  the  Church 
from  that  time  henceforth,  until  the 
Lord  Himself  should  come  and  reign 
"in  Zion  and  Jerusalem  and  before 
His  ancients  gloriously."  As  further 
evidence  that  this  work  was  establishe  l 
for  the  last  time,  the  Lord  says  in 
the  thirtieth  verse  of  the  same  sec- 
tion: 

"For  unto  you  (the  Twelve),  and 
those  (the  First  Presidency)  who  are 
appointed  with  you,  to  be  your  coun- 
selors and  your  leaders,  is  the  power 
of  this  Priesthood  given,  for  the  last 
days  and  for  the  last  time,  in  the  which 
Is  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times." 

Here  is  the  promise  of  the  Lord  to 
His  servant  Joseph  and  the  Twelvn 
that  were  with  him,  that  the  keys  were 
given  unto  them,  and  they  were  to  hold 
them  and  exercise  them,  and  they  were 
given  in  the  power  of  this  Priesthood 
for  the  last  time,  in  the  last  days,  and 


for  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times. 

Now,  as  the  Church  progressed,  the 
Lord,  as  I  before  remarked,  added  or- 
ganizations and  quorums,  until  the 
Church  became  perfectly  established. 
The  ear  came  forth  in  its  beauty  and 
glory.  The  little  blade  had  measur- 
ably disappeared.  "Mormonism,"  as  I 
have  said,  is  a  growth.  It  is  not  the 
same  today  as  it  was  yesterday;  for 
it  is  growing,  just  like  the  flower  that 
puts  forth  its  leaves  and  its  buds,  and 
then  its  blossoms.  It  is  the  same  plant, 
but  it  is  continually  changing,  accord- 
ing to  conditions  and  its  environment 
and  the  necessity  to  develop  itself  in 
its  beauty  and  glory.  So  also  it  is 
in  the  Church.  Why,  we  have  hardly 
attained  the  full  corn  in  the  ear  yet. 
Every  man  read  the  107th  and  the  124th 
Sections  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
from  beginning  to  end.  If  you  do  not 
have  the  book,  buy  one;  and  if  you  can- 
not buy  one,  borrow  one.  In  the  107th 
Section  the  Lord  reveals  to  the  Church 
His  Holy  Priesthood— two  Priesthoods, 
the  Melchisedek  and  the  Aaronic,  which 
are  one  in  reality,  but  divided  into  two 
branches.    He  says: 

"Of  necessity  there  are  presidents,  or 
presiding  offices  growing  out  of,  or  ap- 
pointed of  or  from  among  those  who  are 
ordained  to  the  several  offices  in  these 
two  priesthoods. 

"Of  the  Melchisedeck  Priesthood  three 
Presiding  High  Priests,  chosen  by  the 
body,  appointed  and  ordained  to  that 
office,  and  upheld  by  the  confidence, 
faith  and  prayer  of  the  church,  form  a 
quorum  of  the  Presidency  of  the 
church." 

Does  the  Lord  say  there  that  some 
man  is  to  appoint  his  brother,  or  his 
uncle,  or  his  son,  to  preside  over  the 
Church?  No.  "Three  presiding  High 
Priests,  chosen  by  the  body,"  upheld 
and  sustained  by  the  vote  and  faith 
and  fellowship  of  the  Church,  form 
the  First  Presidency.  That  is  how  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  was  established,  by  the  revela- 
tion and  commandment  of  God.  That 
is  how  it  has  continued  from  that 
time  until  the  present.  When  the 
Prophet  Joseph  was  taken  he  had  re- 
mained faithful  and  true,  and  he  had 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


41 


the  keys  of  the  latter-day  dispensa- 
tion, and  he  has  them  today.  And  if 
you  think  that  he  has  departed  from 
this  people,  if  you  think  that  his  in- 
fluence and  power  are  withdrawn  from 
the  brethren  here  whom  God  has  ap- 
pointed to  preside  over  us  in  the 
Church,  you  are  sadly  mistaken.  The 
spirit  and  power  of  Joseph  are  in  this 
Church  and  with  this  Presidency.  Jo- 
seph the  Prophet,  although  he  has  gone 
from  our  midst,  holds  the  keys  of  the 
last  dispensation,  and  will  hold  them 
till  the  Lord  comes.  But  there  were 
others  appointed  to  act  in  his  stead,  in 
the  place  he  occupied  in  the  flesh,  and 
he  still  holds  his  priesthood  and  power 
and  authority  and  the  keys  of  the  dis- 
pensation behind  the  veil.  He  is  doing 
a  far  greater  work  there  than  he  could 
accomplish  in  the  flesh.  He  has  a  wider 
sphere  of  labor,  and  more  pcwer  and 
influence,  now  that  the  infirmities  of  the 
flesh  are  gone.  He  is  clothed  with  thi 
power  of  the  holy  priesthood,  and  the 
keys  thereof  abide  with  him.  And  he 
Is  with  this  people,  for  "the  powers  of 
this  priesthood  are  inseparably  con- 
nected with  the  powers  behind  the 
veil;"  and  they,  united  together,  will 
prevail  over  every  power  and  influence 
that  may  be  brought  against  them. 

When  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  taken, 
and  the  quorum  of  the  First  Presidency 
was  thus  dissolved,  it  devolved  upon 
the  Twelve.  Read  tthis  Section  and 
you  will  find  that  the  Lord  gave  to 
the  Twelve  authority  to  hold  the  keys, 
equal  with  the  First  Presidency— that 
is,  when  the  First  Presidency  was  dis- 
solved. The  quorum  of  the  Twelve  came 
next,  and  they  had  power  to  set  in 
order  all  the  other  offices  in  the  Church. 
That  is  part  of  their  duty,  as  the  Lord 
has  commanded  in  this  section.  There- 
fore, the  Twelve  came  up,  with  Brig- 
ham  Young  at  their  head,  the  Lord  hav- 
ing designated  him  by  revelation  to  be 
the  President  of  the  Twelve,  as  you 
has  commanded  in  this  section.  There- 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  God  gave 
Hyrum  to  be  the  man  to  hold  the  key* 
of  the  patriarchal  blessings  over  the 
whole  Church;  but  He  gave  Joseph 
Smith  to  preside  over  the  Church,  the 
•whole  Church— over  Hyrum  as  well  as 


the  rest.  He  also  gave  him  his  coun- 
selors. Then  He  gave  the  Twelve,  and 
He  put  Brigham  Young  at  the  head  of 
the  Twelve.  God  knew  what  was  com- 
ing, and  He  so.  ordered  things  that 
Brigham  stood  at  the  head  of  the 
Twelve;  and  when  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
and  the  Prophet  Hyrum,  the  Patri- 
arch, were  taken,  the  Twelve  came  up 
in  their  place,  as  the  Lord  had  ordained. 
Satan  then  had  twelve  to  overcome  in- 
stead of  three.  Furthermore,  you  will 
find  in  the  same  revelation,  in  Sectioa 
107,  that  even  if  the  Twelve  should  all 
be  taken  away,  then  there  are  Seventy 
to  come  up.  It  puts^  <me  in  mind  of 
the  Irishman's  wall.  He  built  it  five 
feet  high  and  eight  feet  thick,  and  when 
they  asked  him  the  reason,  he  said  tha* 
if  the  wind  came  and  blowed  it  over  it 
would  be  higher  than  it  was  before. 

Now,  as  to  this  Church — the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints — 
the  Lord  laid  its  foundations  broad  and 
deep  and  high.  He  made  it  impreg- 
nable. Why?  Because  He  had  ordained 
in  the  beginning  that  it  should  be  per- 
petual, that  it  should  not  be  overcome, 
that  it  should  not  be  left  to  another 
people,  that  the  keys  of  the  priesthood 
should  continue  and  abide  until  Christ 
should  come  and  reign  over  the  earth. 
So  the  Lord  ordained,  in  the  order  of 
the  priesthood,  that  when  the  First 
Presidency  was  dissolved,  the  Twelve 
should  succeed,  having  all  the  keys, 
power  and  authority  to  regulate  the 
Church  and  to  organize  the  quorums. 
Thus  it  was  that  President  Young  and 
the  Twelve  conducted  the  affairs  of  the 
Church  for  some  time.  There  nvas  a 
majority  of  the  Twelve  who  ptood 
faithful,  who  were  ready  to  do  their 
duty,  and  the  Lord  says  that'  "a  ma- 
jority may  form  a  quorum"  when  it 
is  impossible  to  have  them  all  together. 
The  vacant  places  were  filled  up  in  the 
quorum;  and  when  the  proper  time 
came,  President  Young,  who  was  a  Pre- 
siding High  Priest  (so  are  all  the 
Twelve— God's  High  Priests— a  presid- 
ing traveling  High  Council),  and  his 
two  counselors,  were  upheld  and  sus- 
tained by  the  vote  and  faith  and  fel- 
lowship of  the  Church,  and  formed  the 


42 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Presidency  of  the  Church,  in  the,  way 
God  had  appointed. 

So  it  has  been  from  that  time  to  the 
present,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  When- 
ever a  vacancy  has  occurred,  it  has 
been  filled.  For  the  power  of  growth 
is  in  the  Church.  The  power  to  regu- 
late all  its  affairs  is  in  the  Church. 
The  power  to  purge  out  all  that  is  evil 
is  in  the  Church.  We  need  no  outside 
pressure,  or  counsel,  or  instruction.  All 
that  is  necessary  is  right  within  the 
Church.  As  we  were  told  by  Brother! 
Lyman,  it  is  a  living  thing,  a  living 
organism,  quickened  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  and  it  is  the  word  of 
the  Lord  that  is  proclaimed  through 
its  leaders-.  And  so  we  have  had  tha 
quorum  of  the  First  Presidency  or- 
ganized according  to  the  will  and  com- 
mandment of  God  from  that  day  to  the 
present.  I  testify  to  you,  before  the 
Lord,  that  the  truth  which  God  has 
given  to  this  Church  shall  continue  and 
abide,  that  the  keys  of  the  holy  priest- 
hood sent  down  out  of  heaven  in  the 
last  days  for  the  last  time,  will  not  be 
taken  away  again  from  the  earth;  that 
as  the  priesthood  of  Aaron  will  remain 
"until  the  sons  of  Levi  do  offer  unto  the 
Lord  an  offering  in  righteousness,"  so 
the  keys  of  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood 
shall  remain  and  abide  until  Christ, 
who  is  the  great  High  Priest  shall  come 
and  stand  at  our  head,  and  be  our  King. 

I  know  that  this  truth  abides  in  the 
hearts  of  the  people;  but  we  ought  not 
to  allow  any  of  our  friends  who  are 
not  strong  in  the  testimony  to  be  led 
astray  by  anything  that  may  come 
along  to  lessen  their  faith  and  to  weak- 
en them.  Let  us  be  one.  We  have 
been  one  in  these  valleys.  There  never 
was  a  better  spirit  in  the  Church  since 
I  have  known  it,  and  I  have  been  a 
minister  in  it  for  nearly  55  years.  I 
know  that  the  Spirit  of  God  is  with 
this  people,  and  I  have  never  enjoyed 
it  better  than  I  have  during  this  con- 
ference. The  Spirit  of  the  living  God 
has  been  present  and  inspired  the  ut- 
terances of  those  who  have  spoken,  and 
they  have  found  a  place  in  the  hearts 
of  the  people.  The  Saints  have  re- 
joiced.   Why?    Because  the  Lord  is 


with  us.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  this 
is  His  work,  not  the  work  of  man,  and 
He  will  cause  it  to  prevail.  How  ab- 
surd it  would  be  for  the  Lord,  after  He 
had  established  His  Church  on  foun- 
dations of  perpetuity,  to  allow  it  to 
lapse,  to  remain  dormant  for  a  number 
of  years,  when  the  very  keys  that  He 
had  given  that  the  Church  might  be 
perpetuated  were  still  held  by  the 
Twelve  and  the  brethren  associated 
with  them.  The  idea  that  the  Lord 
would  allow  the  Church  to  go  to  sleep 
and  into  darkness  when  He  had  de- 
clared it  should  stand  forever,  would 
be  folly.  But  the  Lord  has  been  with 
His  people  and  with  His  servants.  Do 
we  not  know  that  the  Lord  was  with 
Brother  Brigham  when  he  led  the 
Saints  out  of  trouble  and  bondage  in 
the  east,  across  the  great  plains,  and 
planted  the  Church  in  these  mountain 
valleys,  and  prepared  the  way  for  the 
building  up  of  the  great  community 
and  the  Zion  which  the  Prophet  Joseph 
foresaw,  for  he  talked  about  it  and  ap- 
pointed men  to  go  and  prospect  the 
land,  that  "the  Saints  might  become  a 
great  people  in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky 
Mountains,"  that  Zion  might  flourish 
upon  the  hills. 

The  Church  is  still  growing.  The 
ear  is  still  growing,  and  the  full  corn 
in  the  ear  will  be  seen  when  Christ 
shall  come.  We  have  all  the  keys  and 
powers  necessary  for  that,  right  in  the 
Church.  Its  organization  is  complete, 
with  a  Presidency,  with  Apostles,  Sev- 
enties, High  Priests,  Elders,  Priests, 
Teachers  and  Deacons,  with  the  auxil- 
iary societies  which  the  Lord  has  in- 
spired His  servants  to  establish,  both 
for  the  brethren  and  the  sisters,  that 
the  women  as  well  as  the  men  might 
have  something  to  do  in  building  up 
this  great  latter  day  work.  It  is  beau- 
tiful, it  is  glorious,  it  is  perfect:  for 
it  has  come  from  the  hands  of  the  Al- 
mighty. We  are  imperfect,  we  are 
feeble,  we  are  not  all  fully  carrying  out 
that  which  God  has  placed  upon  us; 
but  we  will  try,  will  we  not?  to  do 
our  duty.  Let  every  man  learn  hia 
duty  in  the  Priesthood.  Let  every  wo- 
man learn  her  duty  in  the  organiza- 


BRIGHAM 

tions  of  the  Church.  Let  us  all  per- 
form our  duties  as  members  of  the 
Church,  meet  tog-ether  often,  partake 
of  the  sacrament,  remember  our  pray- 
ers, teach  our  children  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  and  plant  in 
their  hearts  that  faith  which  has  given 
us  so  much  joy,  satisfaction  and  con- 
tentment, and  the  work  of  the  Lord 
shall  go  onward  and  shall  prevail;  the 
truth  shall  be  carried  to  every  nation, 
kindred,  tongue  and  people,  the  honest 
in  heart  shall  rejoice  among  the  na- 
tions, the  poor  among  men  shall  re- 
joice in  the  Holy  One  of  Israel,  the 
Lord  will  bring  to  shame  the  mocker 
and  the  scornful,  the  wisdom  of  this 
world  shall  come  to  naught  and  the 
understanding  of  the  prudent  shall  be 
hid,  but  the  honest  and  upright  of 
heart  shall  rejoice  in  the  Lord,  the 
truth  shall  prevail,  and  the  kingdom 
of  our  God  shall  come  and  His  will  be 
done  on  the  earth  as  it  is  done  in  heav- 
en, when  "the  meek  inherit  the  earth 
and  the  wicked  are  cut  off  forever." 
God  help  us  to  be  faithful  azid  true,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

"One  Hundred  Years,"  a  quartet  com- 
posed by  Prof.  Stephens,  to  commem- 
orate the  one  hundredth  anniversary 
of  the  Prophet's  birth,  was  rendered 
by  Lottie  Owen,  Mabel  Cooper,  George 
D.  Pyper  and  Horace  S.  Ensign. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 

Of  necessity  the>  subjects  that  are 
considered  at  our  conferences  are  varied 
and  numerous,  in  consequence  of  the 
work  of  the  Lord  being  so  extensive 
and  consisting  of  both  temporal  and 
spiritual  things.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
moves  upon  His  servants  to  address 
themselves  to  the  various  interests  in 
which  the  Church  is  concerned;  and  I 
hav-i  taken  pleasure  in  noting  that  all 
the  interests  and  all  the  departments  of 
work  in  the  Church  generally  receive 
that  word  that  is  seasonable  to  each  be- 
fore the  conference  is  concluded. 

Much  has  been  said  during  this  con- 
ference concerning  the  opposition  that 
is  waged  against  the  work  of  God,  and 
by  the  remarks  made  I  have  been  re- 
minded of  a  saying  current  in  France 
to  the  effect  that  for  a  man  guilty  of 


[.  ROBERTS.  4.3 

crime  two  courses  only  lie  before  him: 
one  is  confession,  the  other  is  suicide; 
and  they  add,  "suicide  is  confession." 
So  -with  those  who  feel  disposed  to  at- 
tack this  work.  They  may  attack  the 
administration  of  it,  or  they  may  at- 
tack its  fundamental  doctrines  and  seek 
to  disprove  it  altogether;  and  in  either 
event  the  attempt  will  end  in  failure 
as  surely  as  confession  or  suicide  ends 
in  one  result.  To  attack  the  adminis- 
tration of  the  work  of  the  Lord  under 
our  present  circumstances,  in  this  year 
of  grace  1905,  is  vain;  for  the  testimony 
of  all  who  have  spoken  and  the  testi- 
mony in  the  hearts  of  the  Saints  of 
God  bear  witness  that  there  never  was 
a  time  in  the  history  of  the  church, 
when  individual  liberty  was  more  re- 
spected than  now,  and  when  the  nec- 
essarily great  administrative  power  in 
thf'  presiding  officer  was  exercised  in 
more  moderation.  So  that  to  my  mind! 
those  who  assail  the  administration  of 
this  work  proclaim  their  own  unwis- 
dom and  fret  out  only  their  own  folly. 
To  attack  the  Church  in  its  fundamen- 
tal doctrines  is  useless;  for  they  are- 
invulnerable,  and  not  to  be  overthrown, 
by  the  efforts  of  the  ungodly  to  dis- 
prove their  truth.  Therefore,  if  these 
people  who  interest  themselves  in  our 
concerns  will  take  a  word  of  advice,  I 
would  suggest,  in  the  language  of  one 
of  old,  that  they  would  best  let  this 
work  alone;  for  if  it  be  of  man,  it  will 
come  to  naught  of  itself;  and  if  it  be 
of  God,  they  cannot  do  aught  against 
it,  and  possibly  they  may  find  them- 
selves fighting  against  God. 

The  Apostle  Paul,  in  his,  epistle  to  the 
Ephesians,  told  them  that  the  Lord  had 
revealed  to  him  that  in  the  dispensa- 
tion of  the  fulness  of  times  God  wouftl 
gather  together  in  one  all  things  in 
Christ,  both  things  which  are  in  heaven 
and  things  which  are  in  earth,  even  in 
Him.  I  do  not  know  that  I  quote  this^ 
scripture  for  the  purpose  of  having  it 
foreshadow  at  all  the  line  of  thought 
that  I  would  like  to  follow;  but  I  be- 
lieve it  is  profitable  to  remember  in 
these  great  assemblies  of  the  Church 
that  we  are  living  in  that  dispensation, 
of  the  fulness  of  times,  in  which  God 


44 


G  EXE  UAL.  CONFERENCE. 


has  promised  to  gather  together  in  one 
all  things  in  Christ,  both  in  heaven  and 
in  earth. 

Accepting  the  doctrine  as  true  that 
we  are  living  and  operating  in  that  dis- 
pensation, and  that  to  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  was  accorded  the  supreme 
honor  of  introducing  that  last  dispen- 
sation— that  dispensation  which  should 
culminate  in  the  redemption  of  tha 
earth  and  in  the  salvation  of  men;  rec- 
ognizing the  truth,  as  pointed  out  in 
the  remarks  of  Elder  Penrose,  that  this 
institution  of  the  kingdom  is  not  to  be 
left  to  other  people,  but  is  to  grow  and 
increase  in  the  earth  until  it  should  fill 
the  whole  earth  and  the  kingdoms  of 
this  world  become  the  kingdoms  of  our 
God  and  His  Christ— after  admitting 
these  premises,  for  anyone  to  suppose 
that  after  that  glorious  dispensation 
had  made  but  a  few  steps  forward  in 
the  unfolding  of  its  greatness  it  was 
suddenly  halted  to  wait  for  someone  to 
grow  from  childhood  to  manhood,  is 
of  all  follies  the  most  supreme.  I  call 
your  attention  for  a  few  moments  to 
the  very  palpable  evidences  that  may  be 
seen  and  read  of  all  men  that  there  has 
been  no  halting  in  this  work,  no  ces- 
sation in  its  growth  and  development, 
from  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
until  the  present  time.  And  I  base  mv 
remarks  upon  the  facts  in  the  case; 
upon  the  word  of  God  and  His  promise 
unto  His  people,  given  at  a  time  when 
the  fortunes  of  the  Church  were  sunk- 
en to  the  lowest  point  in  its  history — I 
refer  to  the  promise  given  to  the  Saints 
of  God  in  1834,  in  the  month  of  Febru- 
ary, when  some  twelve  hundred  of  them 
had  been  exiled  from  Jackson  County 
and  were  bivouacked  on  the  Missouri 
bottoms,  in  most  helpless  circum- 
stances. In  that  dark  hour  the  voice  of 
the  Lord  came  to  His  Prophet  and 
spoke  these  words: 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  I  have 
decreed  a  decree  which  my  people  shall 
realize,  inasmuch  as  they  hearken  from 
this  very  hour  unto  the  counsel  which 
I,  the  Lord  their  God,  shall  give  unto 
them. 

Behold  they  shall,  for  I  have  decreed 
it,  begin  to  prevail  against  mine  ene- 
mies from  this  very  hour, 

And  by  hearkening  to  observe  all  the 


words  which  I,  the  Lord  their  God, 
shall  speak  unto  them,  they  shall  never 
cease  to  prevail  until  the  kingdoms  of 
the  world  are  subdued  under  my  feet, 
and  the  earth  is  given  unto  the  saints, 
to  possess  it  for  ever  and  ever." 

That  was  the  promise  of  the  Lord 
given  unto  the  saints;  and  I  say 
that  the  repeated  triumphs  of  the 
Church  over  their  enemies,  notwith- 
standing the  trials  through  which  the 
Church  has  passed,  the  conditions  that 
prevail  in  these  55  stakes  of  Zion  rep- 
resented in  this  conference,  are  the 
proof  positive  that  God  has  vindicated 
His  promise,  so.  far  as  increasing  the 
number  of  the  Saints  is  concerned  and 
multiplying  the  stakes  of  Zion;  and 
the  number  and  condition  of  the  Saints 
in  these  stakes  is  evidence  that  they 
have,  largely  at  least,  lived  in  har- 
mony with  the  conditions  named  in  the 
revelation  upon  which  they  were  to 
have  success  over  God's  enemies.  It  is 
true,  of  course,  that  a  few  years  after 
this  revelation  was  given  the  Saints 
were  again  driven  from  their  posses- 
sions in  the  state  of  Missouri;  but  mark 
this  difference  between  the  first  expul- 
sion that  took  place  in  our  history — 
the  expulsion  from  Jackson  county — 
and  the  expulsion  from  Missouri  five 
years  later;  1,200  were  driven  from 
Jackson  county  in  1833,  but  when  the 
Church  was  moved  from  Missouri  12,000 
or  15,000  people  were  exiled.  The  work 
of  God  then  certainly  had  not  ceased 
to  grow.  It  was  the  turning  over  of 
Elder  Penrose's  wall,  so  built  as  to  be 
higher  when  turned  over  than  before. 
The  proclamation  of  the  Gospel  had 
been  fruitful,  and  thousands  had  been 
brought  unto  a  knowledge  of  the  truth 
between  the  two  expulsions.  It  is  true 
also,  that  a  few  years  later  another 
exodus  was  forced  upon  the  people. 
Expatriation  took  place,  and  our  fath- 
ers were  compelled  to  leave  the  beauti- 
ful city  upon  the  banks  of  the  Missis- 
sippi and  come  into  this  desert,  moun- 
tain waste.  But  this  time  when  they 
moved  the  Church  they  moved  some- 
thing over  20,000!  And  then,  if  such 
a  thing  were  to  be  thought  possible  that 
we  must  again  move.they  would  have  to 
move  something  like  300.000  people  from 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


45- 


these  mountains!  So  that  in  the  mat- 
ter of  numbers,  at  least,  there  has  been 
no  retrogression  in  this  work.  It  has 
steadily  increased.  The  testimony  of 
the  Elders  of  Israel  has  been  accom- 
panied by  the  witness  of  God.  It  has 
appealed  to  the  honest  in  heart,  and  in 
nearly  all  the  nations  of  the  earth  there 
has  been  found  a  response.  The  gather- 
ing has  continued  until  behold,  the 
Saints  have  their  feet  made  fast  in 
these  valleys  of  the  Rocky  mountains, 
where,  in  fulfillment  of  the  prediction 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  himself,  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  have  become  a  great  and 
a  powerful  people. 

In  the  matter  of  preaching  the  Gos- 
pel the  work  has  not  slackened.  We 
have  been  true  to  that  missionary  spirit 
impressed  upon  the  people  who  re- 
ceived the  Gospel  in  the  commence- 
ment. The  history  of  the  Church  is 
unique  in  this,  it  seems  to  me,  that 
every  time  our  fortunes  have  fallen 
lowest  we  have  turned  to  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel  as  a  means  of 
relief,  and  through  the  procla- 
mation of  it  have  found  renewed 
strength  and  added  increased  vigor  to 
the  work  of  God.  You  remember,  do 
you  not,  the  first  foreign  mission  that 
was  conceived  and  executed  in  the 
Church?  In  those  dark  days,  when 
clouds  of  jspinitual  darkness  (settled 
upon  Kirtland,  and  men  whom  the  Pro- 
phet had  trusted  fell  upon  the  right  and 
upon  the  left  and  were  filled  with  bit- 
terness and  hatred  towards  him — you 
remember  how  the  Spirit  whispered  to 
him  that  some  new  move  must  be 
made  for  the  salvation  of  the  Church, 
and  he  was  prompted  by  the  Spirit  to 
send  word  to  Heber  C.  Kimball  that 
the  voice  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in- 
dicated that  he  must  carry  the  Gospel 
message  to  a  foreign  land;  and  it  was 
done;  for  Heber  C.  Kimball  opened  the 
work  in  England.  Then,  after  |the 
exodus  from  Missouri,  before  the  Saints 
were  yet  settled  permanently  in  Com- 
merce, while  the  bulk  of  the  Church 
was  living  in  wagons,  tents  and  other 
temporary  homes,  behold,  a  mission  for 
the  Twelve,  to  go  abroad  and  proclaim 
the  Gospel!    Leaving  their  families  in 


utmost  poverty,  "many  of  them  in  sick- 
ness, and  the  Twelve  themselves  sick, 
they  drew  to  themselves  the  spiritual 
strength  of  this  work  and  went  forth 
as  messengers  cf  life  and  salvation. 
Again,  true  to  this  spirit  characteristic 
of  the  Church  when  it  was  presided 
over  by  the  Prophet  Joseph,  when  the 
pioneers  landed  in  this  valley  and  be- 
gan to  settle  this  city  and  the  sur- 
rounding country,  before  there  had 
been  any  great  development  of  material 
resources,  the  Twelve  are  again  called 
out  of  this  desert  land,  not  only  to 
preach  the  Gospel  in  England,  but  in 
Prance,  Germany,  Italy  and  Scandi- 
navia. Thus  this  spirit  of  proclaiming 
those  truths  that  God  has  deposited 
with  the  Church  was  characteristic  of 
the  Church  when  it  settled  in  these 
mountains.  These  missions  were  ap- 
pointed unto  the  especial  witnesses  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ— to  the  Twelve 
Apostles.  Lorenzo  Snow  went  to  Italy, 
John  Taylor  to  Germany  and  France, 
Erastus  Show  to  Scandinavia;  and 
from  all  these  lands  sons  and  daughters 
of  God  have  been  brought  into  the  fold 
of  Christ. 

A  week  or  two  ago  I  attended  a  ser- 
vice held  in  this  city,  in  which  the 
Church  of  Christ  was  arraigned  for 
having  by  its  conduct  so  pre- 
judiced the  world  that  they  would 
not  listen  to  the  message  that  we 
had  to  deliver,  and  in  solemn  tones  we 
were  warned  that  somebody  was  re- 
sponsible for  that  condition  of  things. 
Oh,  how  my  heart  swelled  with  joy 
when  he  who  uttered  those  words  and 
that  warning  was  present  at  the  opening 
session  of  this  conference  and  listened 
to  the  report  of  the  President  of  the 
Church  concerning  the  missionary  work 
carried  on  in  all  lands  by  the  Elders 
of  the  Church;  that  the  harvest  was  so 
great  and  the  laborers  so  few ,  that 
although  we  had  nearly  fifteen  hundred 
Elders  in  the  field— and  keep  about  that 
number  out  from  year  to  year — yet  this 
host  of  the  servants  of  God  were  not 
able  to  meet  the  demands  that  are  made 
for  the  proclamation  of  the  Gospel.  It 
seems  to  me  that  we  are  in  a  pretty 
good  condition  to  meet  all  the  respon- 


46 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


sibility  that  we  may  be  warned  about 
concerning  this  matter. 

Take  it  in  the  matter  of  publishing  to 
the  world  the  American  volume  of 
scripture,  the  Book  of  Mormon — 
one  of  the  incidents,  we  may 
say,  with  which  this  great  work  com- 
menced in  the  earth.  Who  is  it  that  has 
published  that  work  in  some  ten  or 
twelve  different  languages;  and  to  as 
many  or  more  nations?  It  is  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
And  the  end  is  not  yet;  for  we  heard 
the  explanation  of  President  Anthon 
H.  Lund,  wherein  he  told  us  in  this 
conference  that  still  more  translations 
of  this  work  were  in  contemplation,  in 
the  Turkish  and  other  languages.  So 
that  we  have  been  steadily  employed  in 
giving  to  the  world  this  new  volume  of 
God's  word.  Our  hands  have  not  been 
slackened  with  reference  to  sending 
abroad  the  word  of  God  as  it  was 
known  to  the  Nephites  upon  this  conti- 
nent, thus  fulfiling  the  decree  of  God 
that  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  should 
not  only  have  the  testimony  of  the 
Jews,  but  that  they  should  have  the 
testimony  of  the  Nephites  also,  and 
through  them  they  should  learn  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  say  the  Church 
has  been  most  faithful  in  publishing  the 
word  of  God  to  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth. 

Another  item.  During  the  last  few 
months  of  the  Prophet's  earthly  career, 
the  one  subject  which  rested  upon  his 
mind  more  than  any  other  was  the  sub- 
ject of  the  salvation  for  the  dead,  the 
building  of  the  Nauvoo  Temple,  the 
erection  of  a  baptismal  font  and  a  house 
in  which  the  keys  of  the  holy  Priest- 
hood might  be  given  to  the  servants  of 
the  Lord,  where  they  might  receive 
their  conversations,  as  described  in  one 
of  the  later  revelations  to  the  Prophet, 
wherein  they  might  receive  that  spir- 
itual instruction  that  should  better 
equip  them  for  the  work  of  the  ministry 
which  God  had  laid  upon  them.  This 
was  the  burden  of  his  discourses,  this 
the  burden  of  his'  letters  written  to  the 
Church  from  his  place  of  exile,  while 
being  compelled  to  hide  from  the  offi- 
cers of  the  law  under  the  false  accusa- 


tion of  having  transgressed  the  law— 
parenthetically:  the  Prophet  Joseph  was 
as  frequently  in  that  condition,  aye, 
more  frequently  than  any  of  the  breth- 
ren have  been  since.  But  this  temple 
work  was  the  one  thing  that  seemed  to 
press  most  heavily  upon  him  just  pre- 
vious to  his  death.  Have  this  people 
been  true  to  that  spirit  of  temple  build- 
ing and  temple  work?  Let  this  monu- 
ment of  granite  to  the  east  of  us,  a  col- 
lective discourse  in  stone  by  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  bear  witness  to  the  world 
that  we  have  been  true  to 
that  part  of  the  work  which 
was  of  such  importance  in  the 
mind  of  the  Prophet.  Let  the  stone 
temple  in  St.  George  bear  a  similar  tes- 
timony. Let  the  splendid  temple  in 
Sanpete  county  be  another  witness;  and 
the  one  at  Logan  in  the  north,  let  it 
also  testify  to  the  same  fact.  Bring 
forth  the  records  of  those  temples,  and 
let  the  millions  of  baptisms  for  the 
dead  answer  whether  this  people  have 
been  true  to  the  mission,  in  the  redemp- 
tion of  the  dead,  which  God  has  placed 
upon  the  Church.  Let  the  records  of 
sealings  of  husbands  to  wives,  wives  to 
husbands,  children  to  parents  and  par- 
ents to  children — let  the  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  ministrations  of  this  kind 
bear  witness  to  the  faithfulness  of  the 
people  of  God  to  this  doctrine  advanced 
by  our  Prophet  in  the  last  days.  I  say 
that  the  blending  together,  or,  if  vou 
will,  in  the  language  of  Paul,  the  gath- 
ering together  of  all  things  in  earth 
as  well  as  of  things  in  heaven;  the 
uniting  together  of  the  past  with  the 
present,  of  the  fathers  with  the  child- 
ren, is  one  of  the  most  stupendous  facts 
connected  with  this  great  work  of  the 
Lord  in  the  last  days.  Do  you  not  re- 
member that  this  doctrine,  which  is  now 
so  gloriously  developed  among  us,  was 
a  matter  of  early  concern  to  the  Pro- 
phet Joseph?  This  work  was  foreshad- 
owed in  the  very  first  interview  the 
Prophet  had  with  Moroni,  for  he  quot- 
ed the  words  of  Malachi,  though  a  lit- 
tle different  from  what  they  are  in  the 
Bible,  to  the  effect  that  the  Lord  would 
soon  reveal  the  Priesthood  by  the  hand 
of  Elijah,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


shall  be  turned  to  the  fathers, 
and  the  hearts  of  the  fathers 
to  the  children.  If  it  were  not  so, 
"he  said,  all  would  be  consumed  at  the 
Lord's  coming-.  After  that,  step  by  step, 
line  upon  line,  precept  upon  precept, 
this  doctrine  was  delivered,  until  it  has 
borne  fruit  in  the  manner  that  I  have 
indicated  to  you  by  the  administra- 
tion of  the  ordinances  of  the  Priesthood, 
wherein  the  power  of  godliness  is  made 
manifest,  and  without  which  ordinances 
of  the  Priesthood,  we  are  informed,  the 
power  of  God  is  not  made  manifest. 

So  that  we  have  been  carrying  out 
the  projected  work  of  the  Prophet  Jos- 
eph Smith  in  this  respect. 

One  other  thing  I  desire  to  call  your 
attention  to.  The  President,  in  his  op- 
ening remarks,  rejoiced  that  we  were 
taking  a  course  that  at  least  displeased 
the  devil,  or  his  advocates.  I  remem- 
ber in  this  connection  a  saying  of  Pres- 
ident Young's.  He  said,  Tou  may  feel 
pretty  safe  as  long  as  the  devil  takes 
exception  to  what  you  are  doing,  for  he 
is  not  disposed  to  approve  of  righteous- 
ness, or  to  complain  if  through  unright- 
eousness you  play  into  his  hands.  Now 
then,  it  may  be  a  miserable  sort  of 
evidence  to  refer  to  in  connection  with 
a  theme  so  glorious  as  this,  and  yet 
I  cannot  quite  resist  the  temp- 
tation to  let  him  furnish  a  little 
evidence;  and  I  do  it  in  this  way:  Has 
not  the  same  bitterness  and  hatred 
that  characterized  the  Church  under 
the  presidency  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  the  same  determination  to  de- 
stroy the  Church,  followed  the  Church 
led  to  the  mountains  by  the  Twelve 
Apostles  under  President  Brigham 
Young?  Has  not  the  same  spirit  char- 
acterized their  ministrations  among  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth?  Surely  you 
know  the  Saints  had  no  rest  in  the 
days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  His  life 
was  one  continual  scene  of  conflict  and 
contest  with  the  powers  of  darkness, 
who  sought  to  destroy  him  and  also  the 
work  which  God  had  ordained  that 
he  should  bring  forth.  At  every  turn 
we  have  been  confronted  with  the  self- 
same enemy.  From  the  fact  that  that 
enemy  recognized  the  Church  of  Christ 


47 

in  these  mountains  we  may  gather  some 
evidence  that  this  is  the  continued 
work  of  God.  It  was  not  the  Elders  of 
any  of  the  so-called  dissenting  factions 
that  have  met  mobbings  and  whippings 
in  various  countries  of  the  world;  It 
was  not  any  of  their  representatives 
that  were  shot  down  in  the  State  of 
Georgia,  or  the  State  of  Tennessee.  No; 
they  were  representatives  of  the  Churdh 
of  Christ  in  these  mountains — the  men 
who  held  the  Priesthood — divine  au- 
thority— and  stood  for  the  truth,  and 
the  fulness  thereof. 

But  I  do  not  know  that  we  ought  to 
concern  ourselves  too  much  about  these" 
matters,  though  it  makes  one  rather  re- 
joice to  see  the  work  of  God  grow  and 
nourish,  notwithstanding  all  the  opposi- 
tion that  is  aroused  against  it;  to  see 
stakes  multiplied,  missions  increased, 
and  the  people  grow  in  grace  and  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth,  despite  the  ef- 
forts of  the  adversary.  You  will  par- 
don me,  I  hope,  for  glorifying  a  little  in 
the  failure  of  our  enemies,  as  well  a^s 
rejoicing  a  great  deal  in  the  success 
of  the  work  of  God. 

I  do  not  know  whether  I  can  make  a 
thought  I  have  in  mind  clear  to  you 
or  not,  but  I  am  going  to  try.  It  has 
only  passed  through  my  mind  a  few 
times,  and  I  do  not  know  whether  I 
have  it  well  digested.  As  I  pointed 
out  in  the  commencement,  we  are  living 
in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times,  in  the  which  would  be  gathered 
together  in  one  all  things  in  heaven  and 
in  earth.  Repeatedly  the  brethren  have 
borne  testimony  that  this  work,  in  pur- 
suance of  the  promises  of  God,  should 
not  be  left  to  other  people.  It  is  not 
going  to  fail.  In  past  dispensations 
there  has  been  a  seeming  triumph  for 
the  powers  of  darkness,  and  I  have  oft- 
en wondered  how  Paul  could  possibly 
continue  to  labor  with  such  energy 
when  he  had  such  clear  conceptions,  by 
the  spirit  of  prophecy,  that  the  time 
would  come  when  an  evil  power  would 
arise,  which  should  exalt  himself  above 
all  that  is  called  God,  sitting  in  the 
temple  of  God,  and  showing  himself 
that  he  was  God— that  is.usurping  God's 
authority  and  ruling  men  with  a  rod  of 


4S 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


iron.  Paul  had  the  clearest  conceptions, 
it  seems  to  me,  that  the  time  would  not 
be  long-  before  clouds  of  spiritual  dark- 
ness would  rest  down  upon  the  people. 
And  so,  in  dispensations  preceding  that 
of  the  meridian  of  time,  one  after  an- 
other they  seem  to  have  failed  of  per- 
manently maintaining  themselves  in  the 
earth.  But  now  at  last  we  have  the 
sure  word  of  God  that  His  work  shall 
be  established  no  more  to  be  destroyed 
nor  given  to  another  people.  What  I 
want  to  call  your  attention  to  is,  that 
this  idea  is  in  harmony  with  the  age  in 
which  we  live.  Our  civilization  has 
taken  on  a  promise  of  permanency, 
the  like  of  which  did  not  characterize 
the  civilizations  of  former  days.  The 
great  Greek  civilization  was  overthrown 
to  a  great  extent  by  the  success  of  the 
Roman  arms.  True,  in  time  it  reas- 
serted itself,  and  by  their  civilization 
the  Greeks  are  general^  conceded  to 
have  subdued  Rome.  Rome  in  turn 
declined,  and  finally  fell  under  the  re- 
peated assaults  and  waves  of  immigra- 
tion of  barbarous  tribes  from  beyond 
the  Danube,  from  the  far  north  and 
northeast.  This  was  the  fate  of  the 
western  division  of  the  Roman  empire. 
Later,  in  the  fifteenth  century,  this 
was  the  fate  also  of  the  eastern  divi- 
sion; for  the  terrible  Seljuk  Turks  re- 
peated the  success  over  the  eastern  em- 
pire, that  the  German  tribes  won  over 
the  western.  So  the  whole  Roman  civ- 
ilization was  crushed.  And  through  all 
the  ages  civilizations  have  gone  down 
and  others  have  arisen  in  their  place. 
But  today  the  civilization  of  this  age 
seems  to  have  based  on  better  founda- 
tions. Judge  it  by  human  wisdom,  at 
least,  one  would  say  that  we  had  ar- 
rived at  a  state  of  preservation  of  all 
light,  truth  and  knowledge  that  has 
been  confided  into  the  human  con- 
sciousness through  the  intellectual  ef- 
forts of  those  who  devote  themselves 
to  thought,  science  and  philsosophy. 
There  exists  nowhere  on  the  face  of 
the  round  globe  the  barbarous  tribes 


that  ca»  possibly  overwhelm  the  knowl- 
edge and  the  civilization  of  the  present 
age.  And  I  believe  that  this  perma- 
nency in  civilization,  the  prospect  of 
preservation  of  the  light  and  truth  that 
have  been  given  unto  the  children  of 
men,  ought  to  be  and  necessarily  will 
be  accompanied  by  spiritual  truth, 
spiritual  philosophy,  a  true  and  per- 
manent religion,  that  shall  move  side  by 
side  with  this  permanent  civilization 
until  it  brings  to  pass  the  redemption 
of  the  children  of  men.  So  that  this 
dispensation  of  the  Gospel  is  in  har- 
mony with  all  other  things  with  which 
we  are  surrounded.  It  promises  perma- 
nency of  civilization,  and  the  preserva- 
tion of  all  the  knowledge  that  has  been 
developed  through  the  experience  and 
researches  of  men  as  well  as  through 
the  revelations  of  truth  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  But  I  would  say  to 
those  who  pride  themselves  upon  their 
attainments  in  science — and  from  the 
magnitude  of  their  achievements  I  do 
not  deny  that  they  have  a  right  to  feel 
a  little  proud;  I  would  say  to  those  who 
glory  in  the  philosophy  that  they  have 
developed — and  they  too  may  well  be 
proud  of  their  achievements — I  say  un- 
to them,  scientists  and  philosophers 
alike,  You  are  but  lamely  limping  along 
far  in  the  rear  of  the  far-flung  thought 
line  of  what  God  revealed  through  His 
servants  the  prophets.  I  will  not  have 
time  to  develop  that  thought;  but  I  re- 
joice in  the  prospective  triumph  of  the 
truth.  We  are  going  to  win.  We  will 
not  fail  as  a  community,  as  an  organi- 
zation. Individuals,  through  human 
weakness  and  inclination  to  evil,  may 
offend  the  Spirit  of  God  and  fail,  as 
individuals;  but  as  the  throne  of  God 
stands  sure  so  stands  sure  the  founda- 
tions of  this  work  and  the  structure 
that  God  is  rearing  upon  it.  That  is  my 
testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  "The 
Uoxology." 

Benediction  by  Elder  J.  Golden  Kim- 
ball. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Sunday,  Oct.  8,  10  a.  m. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  beginning: 

Ccme,  dearest  Lord,  descend  and  dwell, 
By  faith  and  love^  in  every  breast; 

Then  shall  we  know,  and  taste  and  feel, 
The  joys  that  cannot  be  expressed. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Bishop  Orrin 
P.  Miller. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Rouse 
oh  ye  mortals,  the  dawn  is  near." 

ELDER  RULOX  S.  WELLS. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rise  before 
you  this  morning  in  response  to  a  call 
from  President  Smith,  and  I  can  as- 
sure you  that  it  is  with  a  feeling  of 
great  timidity,  and  unless  our  Father 
shall  come  to  my  support  1  feel  wholly 
unequal  to  the  task  that  has  been  as- 
signed to  me.  I  feel  now,  as  I  have  al- 
ways felt,  deep  interest  in  the  great 
work  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  which 
He  has  instituted  for  the  salvation  of 
His  children  here  upon  the  earth,  and  a 
testimony  of  its  divine  truth  burns  in 
my  heart  at  this  very  moment.  To  me 
the  meetings  of  this  conference  have 
been  in  very  deed  spiritual  feasts.  The 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been  poured  out 
abundantly  upon  Hi|s  servants  who 
have  addressed  the  congregations,  and  I 
feel  that  the  people  themselves  enter- 
tain the  same  view  that  I  have  ex- 
pressed. Indeed  the  gathering  of  the 
people  this  morning  is  a  sufficient  guar- 
antee of  this  truth,  and  I  rejoice  that 
even  this  great  Tabernacle  is  not  suffi- 
cient to  hold  the  Latter-day  Saints  who 
have  come  up  hither  to  hear  the  word  of 
the  Lord,  insomuch  that  it  has  become 
nfecess^ry*  notwithstanding  ;the  fact 
that  the  elements  have  been  somewhat 
threatening,  to  hold  an  overflow  meet- 
ing in  order  to  accommodate  the  people 
who  have  come  in  such  great  numbers 


to  hear  His  holy  word.  It  speaks  well 
for  the  faith  and  for  the  interest  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  have  in  the  work 
of  the  Lord. 

It  has  been  said,  during  this  confer- 
ence, that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  a 
peculiar  people,  and  sometimes  I  have 
wondered  in  what  did  this  peculiarity 
consist.  Wherever  we  go  we  find  that 
we  are  somewhat  different  from  the 
rest  of  mankind,  so  much  so  that  we 
are  pointed  out  and  observed.  In  fact, 
we  might  say  we  are  the  observed  of 
all  observers  when  we  go  out  into  the 
world.  Many  times  people  have  accost- 
ed me  and  spoken  in  reference  to  our 
missionaries.  When  I  was  in  the  mis- 
sionary field  they  have  said  to  me, 
"Your  men  are  different  from  ours;  they 
seem  to  be  a  different  class  of  people." 
Why  is  it?  Is  it  not  the  effect  that 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  produc- 
ing among  the  Latter-day  Saints?  In 
our  own  community  we  do  not  realize 
the  great  change  that  has  taken  place 
in  us  since  we  have  become  identified 
with  this  peculiar  religion.  If  we  are 
living  in  harmony  with  the  teachings  of 
the  Gospel  it  will  have  the  effect  to 
make  those  peculiarities  still  more  pro- 
nounced. There  is  an  influence  that 
goes  with  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
that  is  felt  among  the  people  of  the 
world  with  whom  we  associate.  I  do 
not  wish  to  convey  the  idea  that  we 
have  so  far  advanced  and  become  so 
perfect  that  we  claim  to  be  holier  than 
the  rest  of  mankind,  but  I  do  wish  to 
convey  the  idea  that  there  has  been  an 
effect  wrought  upon  this  community  as 
a  direct  result  of  our  religion.  It  has 
opened  the  eyes  of  our  understanding. 
It  has  caused  us  to  look  at  life  from 
an  entirely  different  aspect.  We  have 
been  enlightened  by  the  power  of  the 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Holy  Ghost  that  was  conferred  upon 
us  when  we  entered  into  covenant  with 
the  Lord.  The  peculiarity  that  is  mora 
prominent  with  us  than  all  others  is  the 
spirit  of  love.  The  spirit  of  the  Gospel 
is  the  spirit  of  love,  and  there  have 
been  exhibitions  of  that  love  in  the 
whole  career  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

In  pursuance  of  this  quality  which  so 
distinguishes  us  from  other  peoples  in 
the  world,  our  young-  men  leave  their 
fathers  and  their  mothers,  their  wives 
and  children,  and  go  out  into  the  world 
without  remuneration  to  proclaim  the 
glad  message  of  great  joy.  Oh!  what  a 
wonderful  manifestation  of  love  to- 
wards their  fellow  men.  "Where  in  all 
the  world  can  such  a  thing  be  found, 
other  than  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints?  There  may  be  isolated  instances 
of  great  devotion  on  the  part  of  men 
who  are  sincere  and  honest  in  their  mo- 
tives, but  where  upon  the  face  of  the 
whole  earth  will  you  find  a  whole  com- 
munity who  are  willing  to  make  this 
sacrifice  because  of  the  love  which  they 
hold  toward  their  fellowmen?  Th^ 
spirit  of  this  work,  the  spirit  that  im- 
pels these  young  men  to  go  out  into 
the  world,  distinguishes  them  wher- 
ever they  go  and  manifests  itself  in  the 
spirit  of  love.  You  do  not  hear  of  the 
missionaries  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  being  full 
of  hatred  and  venom  and  seeking  whom 
they  can  destroy;  you  do  not  find  them 
laying  traps,  or  disseminating  false- 
hood, or  doing  that  which  will  bring 
their  opponents  into  discomfort.  No; 
you  will  find  them  laboring  for  the  sal- 
vation of  the  souls  of  the  children  of 
men.  You  will  find  them  going  from 
door  to  door,  holding  forth  upon  the 
corners  of  the  streets,  and  en- 
countering all  kinds  of  opposition. 
You  will  find  them  proclaiming  the 
fact  that  God  has  spoken  from  heaven 
and  restored  to  earth  His  everlasting 
Gospel.  You  will  find  them  traveling 
without  purse  and  without  scrip, 
oftimes  going  hungry  and  submitting 
to  great  indignities  and  privations. 
These  are  not  acts  of  men  filled  with 
the  spirit  of  hate,  but  they  are  im- 
pelled by  the  spirit  of  love,  a  spirit  to 


benefit  and  bless  their  fellowmen. 
There  is  a  spirit  of  peace  that  acom- 
panies  them  in  their  ministrations; 
there  is  an  influence,  which  they  carry 
with  them  that  they  themselves  seem 
to  be  unconscious  of.  They  do  not 
realize  the  great  force  and  influence 
that  is  with  them  when  they  go  out 
into  the  world.  The  influence  that  im- 
pels the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  I  said 
before,  is  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel, 
which  is  the  spirit  of  love.  God  is  love, 
and  if  we  possess  His  Holy  Spirit  it 
will  manifest  itself  in  acts  of  love.  1 
do  not  know  how  I  can  more  specifical- 
ly illustrate  the  feeling  that  is  pos- 
sesed  in  such  measure  by  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Nevertheless.  I  will  say 
this,  that  the  man  who  is  in  posses- 
sion of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  carries 
with  him  an  influence  that  is  a  strange 
thing  in  the  world,  and  it  will  cause 
those  who  come  in  contact  with  him 
to  recognize  the  fact  that  he  is  differ- 
ent from  the  majority  of  mankind. 

In  the  121st  section  of  the  book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  you  will 
find  these  words: 

45.  Let  thy  bowels  aiso  be  full  of 
charity  towards  all  men.  and  to  the 
household  of  faith,  and  let  virtue  gar- 
nish thy  thoughts  unceasingly,  then 
shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the 
presence  of  God,  and  the  doctrine  of 
the  Priesthood  shall  distill  upon  thy 
soul  as  the  dews  from  Heaven. 

46.  The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy 
constant  companion,  and  thy  sceptre 
an  unchanging  sceptre  of  righteous- 
ness and  truth,  and  thy  dominion  shall 
be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and  with- 
out compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto 
thee  for  ever  and  ever. 

In  these  words  you  find  a  corrobor- 
ation of  that  which  I  have  said.  If  the 
Latter-day  Saints  will  allow  their 
hearts  to  go  out  in  sympathy  and  love 
for  their  fellowmen,  and  especially  for 
the  household  of  faith,  their  faith  will 
grow  stronger  day  by  day,  they  will 
increase  in  the  knowledge  of  God,  and 
their  confidence  shall  wax  strong  Id 
His  presence,  and  this  doctrine  of  the 
Priesthood  shall  distill  upon  their  souls 
as  the  dews  from  Heaven.  Their  whole 
being  will  be  lit  up  by  the  power  of  the 
Spirit  of  God,  and  this  power  will  make 
itself  felt    among   the   people  of  the 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


51 


world.  This  is  the  great  advantage 
we  have  received  in  yielding  obedience 
to  the  Gospel.  It  is  in  this  regard 
that  we  are  different  from  the  rest  of 
mankind.  That  is  not  saying  there  are 
not  millions  of  good  people  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth  who  desire  to  do  the 
will  of  the  Lord.  But  I  would  say  to 
such  that  if  they  will  also  accept  the 
truth  as  it  has  been  revealed  from 
Heaven,  the  same  power,  the  same  gifts 
and  the  same  influence,  will  distin- 
guish them  from  the  rest  of  mankind. 
It  is  the  marvelous  power  of  the  Holy 
Spirit;  the  doctrine  of  the  Priesthood 
distilling  upon  the  souls  of  those  who 
allow  their  hearts  to  go  out  in  sym- 
pathy and  love  toward  their  fellowmen, 
and  who  manifest  that  love  in  going 
out  into  the  world  to  proclaim  the 
truth  as  it  has  been  revealed  from 
Heaven.  It  is  the  same  love  that  im~ 
bued  the  Savior  of  the  world  when  He 
gave  His  life  for  the  salvation  of  men. 
Greater  love  than  this  hath  no  man, 
that  he  will  lay  down  his  life  for  his 
friends.  It  is  that  love  that  impelled 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  lay  down 
his  life  and  to  go  as  a  lamb  to  the 
slaughter.  It  is  that  love  that  impels 
the  servants  of  the  Lord  in  this  day  to 
take  their  lives  in  their  hands  and  go 
into  the  world,  which  is  so  full  of 
hatred  and  prejudice  against  the  work 
of  the  Lord.  Those  whom  we  fmd  in 
the  world  rising  up  against  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  what  justification  can  they 
find  in  that?  What  spirit  is  it  that  im- 
bues the  men  and  women  who  dissem- 
inate falsehood  and  misstatements, 
which  have  the  result  of  arousing  preju- 
dice and  hatred  toward  the  Latter-day 
Saints?  What  spirit  is  it  that  impels 
men  and  women  to  rai3e  their  voices 
against  men  whom  the/  know  to  be 
honorable  and  men  of  virtu-i  and  in- 
tegrity, for  the  purpose  of  blackening 
their  characters,  and  making  them  ap- 
pear in  the  eyes  of  the  world  men  of 
the  vilest  character? 

Contrast  this  spirit  with  the  sp-rit 
that  animates  our  missionaries.  It 
seems  to  be  the  heritage  of  the  Saints 


to  be  hated  of  the  world,  and  to  have 
all  manner  of  evil  spoken  against  them 
falsely.  It  was  so  in  the  case  of  the 
Savior  Himself.  It  was  so  with  other 
Prophets  and  holy  men  who  have 
spoken  under  the  inspiration  of  the 
Spirit  of  God.  It  is  that  which  has 
helped  to  distinguish  them  in  the  dif- 
ferent periods  of  the  world's  history. 
They  have  always  stood  out  prominent 
among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth, 
and  their  names  have  been  had  for 
good  and  for  evil  in  all  the  world.  The 
name  of  the  Savior  Himself  was  iiad 
for  good  and  evil.  The  prophets  of  God 
have  been  despised  and  hated  and 
.stoned  to  death.  They  have  been  spok- 
en of  both  good  and  evil.  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  this  day  and  age  of  the 
world,  are  no  exception.  They  are 
spoken  evil  of  by  those  who  possess  an 
evil  spirit,  and  they  are  spoken  well  of 
by  those  who  are  honest  in  heart. 

Having  said  this  much  regarding  the 
peculiarities  of  our  people,  let  us,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  continue  to  be  a 
peculiar  people.  Let  our  influence  be 
felt  wherever  we  go.  Let  it  be  said  of 
us  that  we  are  indeed  a  peculiar  people, 
in  this,  that  the  love  of  God  abounds 
in  our  hearts,  and  that  we  seek  to  build 
one  another  up,  not  to  tear  down. 
When  we  come  in  contact  with  the 
world  let  them  feel  that  we  have  no 
spirit  of  hatred  toward  them,  no  spirit 
to  tear  them  down,  but  that  m  the 
depths  of  our  hearts  we  desire  to  save 
their  souls  and  to  do  them  good.  I 
know  that  this  Gospel  is  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation;  that  through  the  instrumen- 
tality of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  it 
has  been  restored  to  earth,  never  again 
to  be  taken  away  and  never  again  to 
be  thrown  down;  that  those  whom  God 
has  chosen  to  stand  at  the  head  of  His 
people  today  are  inspired  of  Him  and 
possess  the  spirit  of  their  calling.  God 
help  all  to  attain  this  testimony  for 
themselves,  and  may  we  uphold  and 
sustain  His  servants  with  all  our 
hearts,  is  my  prayer  through  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  GERMAN   E.  ELLSWORTH. 

(President  of  Northern  States  Mission). 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  there  is  a 
desire  in  my  breast  that  our  Father 
will  bless  me  with  His  Spirit  the  few 
moments  I  stand  before  you  to  testify 
of  His  goodness  unto  me,  and  unto  the 
Elders  I  am  privileged  to  labor  with  in 
the   Northern   States   mission.  Though 
my  knees  tremble  under  the  task  of 
speaking  to  you,  my  heart  rejoices  in 
the  privilege  of  visiting  this  conference, 
and  hearing    the    testimonies    of  my 
brethren  who  have  been  called  upon  to 
speak.     I  rejoice  in  their  testimonies 
because  it  warms  my  soul,  and  makes 
me  feel  that  God  has  been  good  to  me 
in  giving  me  also  a  testimony  of  His 
Gospel,  .and  testifying  to  my  soul  that 
His  Son  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of 
the  world.    I  know  that  for  the  past 
six  months  our  Father  in  heaven  has 
fulfilled  His  promises  upon  the  heads 
of  the  Elders  laboring  in  the  Northern 
States   mission,    and   that   they  have 
been   inspired   in   the   performance  of 
their  duties.    Many  of  them,  during  the 
past  few   months,   look   as   brown  as 
though  they  had  been  working  in  the 
harvest  fields  at  home.    I  rejoice  in  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  pro- 
gress of  the  work  in  the  mission  where 
we  are  laboring.    Our  cry  to  the  Pres- 
idency of  the  Church  has  been,  as  I 
understand  is  the  case  with  presidents 
of  other  missions,  that  we  have  too  few 
Elders  to  answer  the  calls  of  the  peo- 
ple who  desire  to  hear  from  us.  From 
the  northern  to  the  southern  part  of  our 
mission,  we  have  calls  from  the  people 
for  tracts  and  books,  and  for  visits  from 
the  Elders,  so  much  so  that  during  the 
last  six  months  we  have  been  compelled 
to  ask  the  Saints  to  stand  alone,  to  look 
to  God,  to  read  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  to  go  to 
their  Father  in  heaven  for  wisdom,  and 
permit  the  Elders  to  go  out  among  the 
strangers  who  have  not  had  the  privi- 
lege of  hearing  the  gospel.    The  efforts 
of  the  Elders  this  summer  have  been 
blessed,  and  for  the  past  four  months, 
we  have  had  an  average  of  about  fifty 
baptisms  per  month;  and  we  have  dis- 


tributed 125,000  tracts,  half  of  which 
are  pamphlets,  consisting  of  thirty-two 
pages.  The  Elders  have  sold  hundreds 
of  Books  of  Mormon  in  the  last  two 
months.  Some  of  the  big  book  stores 
in  our  part  of  the  country  have  kindly 
consented  to  put  our  books  upon  sale 
along  with  others.  We  appreciate  this 
kindly  interest,  it  is  a  change  '  from 
wha:  has  been  in  the  past,  for  hereto- 
fore our  books,  if  they  have  been  in 
stores  at  all,  have  had  a  place  among 
the  shelfworn  and  second-hand  stock. 

There  is  one  incident  that  has  occur- 
red   in    the    Northern    States  mission 
which  I  believe  all  Latter-day  Saints 
will  be  interested  in,  that  is  the  con- 
ference that  was  held  in  Nauvoo  last 
Saturday  and  Sunday.   If  I  may  be  per- 
mitted I  will  relate  the  circumstances 
under  which  the  conference  was  held 
there.    About  one  month  ago  the  pres- 
ident of  the  Northern  Illinois  confer- 
ence was  looking  for  a  suitable  place  to 
hold  a   conference,   and,   having  done 
missionary  work  for  the  past  year  in 
Hancock  county,  and  had  been  blessed 
by  a  number  of  baptisms,  and  having 
heard  it  remarked  that  the  "Reorgan- 
ized church"  people  were  contemplating 
holding  conference  in  Nauvoo,  he  decid- 
ed to  hold  the  conference  there,  if  pos- 
sible, for  he  understood  that  they  had 
postponed  their's  for  one  year,  because 
conditions  were  not  favorable.  When 
he  wrote  to  us  about  this,  we  requested 
the  Southern  Illinois  Elders  to  join  the 
northern  Elders  in  holding  conference 
there  on  the  30th  of  September,  and  the 
1st   of   October.     In   accordance  with 
that   appointment,    forty-eight  Elders 
and  twenty  Saints  gathered  at  Nauvoo 
on  the  29th  of  September.    The  people 
residing    here    unitedly    opened  ftheir 
homes  and  welcomed  what  they  termed 
the  constructionist  division  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.    They  said  that,  if  the 
people  of  Nauvoo  had  not  driven  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  that  beautiful  loca- 
tion would  now  be  one  of  the  greatest 
cities  in  the  United  States.    They  re- 
marked that  the  people  who  were  driven 
out  of  Nauvoo  had  gone  into  a  desert 
and  had  made  it  a  desirable  place,  and 
they  have  not  imagination  enough  to 
conceive  of  what  would  have  been  done 


ELDER  GERMAN 


E  ELLSWORTH. 


53 


in  Nauvoo,  had  the  Saints  stayed  in 
that  goodly  country.  Some  of  the  Saints 
and  Elders  from  the  Central  States  mis- 
sion, hearing-  of  our  conference,  visited 
us,  as  also  some  from  the  Southern 
States.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was  up- 
on every  Elder  who  bore  witness  to 
the  truthfulness  of  the  gospel,  and  the 
hearts  of  the  people  rejoiced.  We  had 
more  houses  offered  for  our  accommo- 
dation than  we  could  occupy.  Eight 
Elders  had  the  privilege  of  rooming  in 
President  Brigham  Young's  old  home; 
four,  I  think,  in  Heber  C.  Kimball's 
house;  and  eight  or  ten  in  the  Nauvoo 
Mansion  House.  We  held  our  fast 
meeting  in  the  Riverside  or  Nauvoo 
house.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was  up- 
on those  who  bore  witness  in  that  meet- 
ing, and  all  present  were  much  affected. 
We  had  the  pleasure  of  having  Brother 
Lorin  Farr  with  us,  who  formerly  lived 
in  that  city,  and  who  filled  a  mission  to 
the  Eastern  States  under  the  call  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The  Nauvoo 
people  Wire  anxious  to  have  him  visit 
Them  and  t;.lk  of  old  times.  Some  said 
they  hod  been  praying  for  years  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  the  people  who 
had  made  a  desert  to  blossom  as  the 
rose,  would  come  back,  and  help  them 
build  up  that  city,  which  is  now  sixty 
years  behind  the  times.  The  residents 
in  Lii e  Nauvoo  House  moved  into  that 
place  four  months  ago.  They  had  never 
met  any  of  the  elders  before,  but  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  came  upon  them, 
and  we  heard  that,  the  day  after  con- 
ference, that  family,  with  others,  were 
baptized  in  the  Mississippi  river. 

I  rejoice  that  the  spirit  in  that  coun- 
try, once  the  home  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  has  changed,  and  the  people 
there  deplore  the  fact  that  wicked  men 
drove  out  people  who  were  gifted  with 
the  power  to  build  up  a  country,  and 
w  ho  had  within  their  souls  a  desire  to 
beautify  this  earth.  The  mayor  told 
us  we  would  be  always  welcome.  Tru- 
man who  owns  the  hall  that  faces  east 
on  the  temple  block  said  that  we  could 
have  the  use  of  that  hall  from  this  time 
forth.  Heretofore  we  have  had  to  hold 
our  meetings  on  the  streets.  Our  Sun- 
day   afternoon    and    Sunday  evening 


meetings  were  attended  by  about  five 
hundred  people,   and    they  expressed 
themselves   sorry   when   the  meetings 
closed,  for,  they  said,  they  had  never 
witnessed  anything  like  it  since  they 
lived  in  that  city.    The  comment  was 
made  that,  if  fifty  elders  and  a  few 
saints  could  make  them  feel  that  good, 
what  would  ten  thousand,  or  twenty 
thousand      Latter-day     Saints  do  for 
them?   The  spirit  manifested  in  Nauvoo 
is  also  exhibited  in  other  parts  of  Illi- 
nois,  with  the  exception  that  a  few 
people  are  still  fighting  the  truth.  The 
honest  people,  the  farmers,  the  working 
people,  those  who  earn  their  bread  by 
industry,  seem  to  desire  the  truth,  and 
though  they  may  be  blinded,  and  feel 
that  in  fighting  the  Latter-day  Saints 
they  are  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  yet 
when  they  meet  our  elders  and  come  in 
contact  with  their  influence,  they  ad- 
mire their  devotion    and    respect  the 
sacrifice  they  make  in  proclaiming  the 
gospel.    People  of  honest  purpose  can- 
not withstand  the  influence  of  the  men 
who  are  out    preaching    the  gospel, 
young  men  from  eighteen  to  twenty- 
four  years  of  age,  who  go  hungry  and 
footsore,  who  pray  by  the  roadside  that 
they  may  find  the  honest  in  heart,  who 
stop  from  time  to  time  and  hold  meet- 
ings,   laboring    faithfully    until  their 
soult;  and  their  bodies  are  weary.  These 
young  men,   filled  with  the   Spirit  of 
God,  plead  on  their  knees  for'  God  to 
bless  the  people;  and  they  call  them  to 
repentance  in  a  voice  that  would  almost 
soften   the   heart   of  a   stone.  Thess 
young  men,  after  they  have  notified  the 
people  of  a  little  town  that  they  are 
going  to  hold  a  meeting,  and  have  la- 
bored all  day  with  that  end  in  view,  ara 
filled  with  the  Spirit  of  God  when  the 
meeting  is  held,  and  the  people  bless 
them,  take  them  home,  buy  their  books, 
and  invite  them  to  come  again.   I  know 
of  no  one  better  prepared  to  preach  to 
the  people,  and  to  plead  with  them  to 
follow  Christ,  than  these  young  men  are 
after  a  hard  day's  work  of  this  kind. 
I  rejoice  in  the  work  they  are  doing. 
I   rejoice    in    the   faithfulness    of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  rejoice  in  the  spirit 
of  this  conference,  and  in  the  spirit  of 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Saints  wherever  I  go.  May  God  bless 
them;  may  He  help  all  of  us  to  fulfill 
the  calling-  whereunto  we  have  been 
called,  that  we  may  dedicate  our  all  to 
the  service  of  the  Master,  that  we  may 
spread  the  truth,  to  the  end  that  all  thy 
world  may  feel  as  we  do,  and  rejoice 
In  the  name  of  the  Lord  for  the  Gospel 
that  He  has  restored  in  our  day.  And 
though  our  knees  tremble,  may  our 
hearts  rejoice  in  bearing  this  witness  to 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  that  when 
we  come  up  in  the  morning  of  the  resur- 
rection our  Master  may  say  "Well 
done,"  and  the  honest  in  heart  of  the 
earth  rise  up  and  bless  us  for  our 
labors  and  for  the  time  we  spent  in 
bringing  them  to  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth.  May  the  sacrifice  and  the  devo- 
tion of  the  Latter-day  Saints  draw  to 
them  the  honest  in  heart  of  the  earth, 
is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  Horace  S.  Ensign  sang  feel- 
ingly "The  Lord's  Prayer." 

ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 
(President  of  Juarez  Stake.) 
I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
preface  the  brief  remarks  that  I  am 
about  to  make  by  reading  a  few  para- 
graphs from  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Six 
hundred  years  before  the  birth  of  our 
Savior,  the  Lord  called  His  servant 
Lehi  to  come  out  from  Jerusalem,  with 
his  family,  to  a  land  which  the  Lord 
promised  to  lead  him  to,  and  to  give 
to  him  and  to  his  descendants  after 
him  for  an  everlasting  inheritance.  He 
outlined  to  this  man  in  vision  the  fu- 
ture of  his  posterity  and  of  the  world 
throughout  its  generations,  until  a 
time  should  come  in  the  dispensation  of 
the  fullness  of  times  when  truth  should 
triumph  over  error,  and  when  God's 
kingdom  should  be  established  in  the 
earth.  In  order  that  this  vision  might 
be  made  clearer,  plainer,  and  more 
comprehensible,  the  Lord  sent  his  angel 
to  explain  and  enlarge  upon  it  to  Ne- 
phi,  the  son  of  Lehi.  Among  other 
things,  he  saw  that  after  the  descend- 
ants of  this  man  should  dwindle  in  un- 
belief, a  great  church  should  be  es- 
tablished in  the  earth,  a  church  which 


he  called  the  mother  of  abominations., 
a  church  which  should  worship  gold 
and  silver,  satin  and  fine-twined  linen; 
and  he  saw  that  this  church  should 
dominate  the  entire  earth.  Then  he 
saw  the  establishment  of  another 
church,  which  he  called  the  church  of 
the  Lamb  of" God;  and  it  is  just  a  few 
paragraphs  relating  to  this  epoch  that 
I  desire  to  read— the  period  of  time,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  which  we  live, 
and  in  whose  events  we  are  actual  par- 
ticipants: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  looked 
and  beheld  the  whore  of  all  the  earth, 
and  she  sat  upon  many  waters:  and  she 
had  dominion  over  all  the  earth,  among 
the  nations,  kindreds,  tongues,  and  peo- 
ple. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld 
the  church  of  the  Lamb  of  God,  and  its 
numbers  were  few.  because  of  the  wick- 
edness and  abominations  of  the  whore 
who  sat  upon  many  waters:  neverthe- 
less, I  beheld  the  church  of  the  lamb, 
who  were  the  saints  of  God.  were  also 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth:  and  their 
dominions  upon  the  face  of  the  earth 
were  small,  because  of  the  wickedness 
of  the  great  whore  whom  I  saw." 

Now.  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
thing  to  which  I  wish  to  call  your  at- 
tention is  this:  At  the  time  the  Book 
of  Mormon  was  published  to  the  world, 
the  church  of  the  Lamb  of  God  did  not 
exist.  It  had  not  come  into  being  in 
its  organized  form.  Now.  think  back 
for  a  little  more  than  -seventy-five 
years,  and  let  us  ask  ourselves  whether 
or  not  the  words  of  the  Lord  that  He 
gave  to  Nephi  more  than  two  thousand 
years  ago  are  not  verified.  I  have  al- 
ways rejoiced  in  the  fact  that  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  are  a  people  who  live 
in  the  present.  Their  faith  is  not 
founded  upon  that  which  is  past,  al- 
though they  delight  to  understand  the 
past,  because  in  contemplating  it  they 
can  in  a  degree  judge  of  the  future. 
They  are  not  a  people  whose  hopes 
are  founded  altogether  upon  something 
that  is  yet  future;  but  they  are  a  peo- 
ple who  live  in  the  present.  They  are 
fulfillers  of  prophecy.  They  are  a  peo- 
ple who  are  enacting  their  part  in  the 
great  work  of  the  redemption  of  the  hu- 
man race,  outlined  by  the  ancient  pro- 
phets of  God.    What  is  the  condition 


ELDER   ANTHONY   W.  IVINS. 


55 


of  the  Church  today?  I  have  been 
led  to  contemplate  this  question,  be- 
cause of  the  report  which  was  made 
here  by  the  President  of  thd>  Church  at 
the  opening  of  the  conference.  The  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  are  firmly  established  in 
Canada;  their  possessions  extend  into 
Oregon;  they  are  in  Montana,  in  Idaho, 
in  Wyoming,  in  California,  in  Arizona, 
in  Colorado,  in  Utah,  in  New  Mexico. 
They  have  gone  over  the  wall,  and  are 
in  the  republic  of  Mexico,  still  further 
south.  Not  only  are  their  possessions 
to  be  found  in  this  district  of  country  to 
which  I  have  referred,  but  you  may 
find  them  also  in  the  States  of  the  Un- 
ion, in  the  countries  of  Europe,  and 
upon  the  islands  of  the  sea.  The  Saints 
of  God  are  acquiring  possessions  in 
these  countries,  few  it  is  true,  if  they 
were  not  few,  it  would  not  be  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  written  word  of  God. 

I  am  very  pleased  to  report  to  you 
the  condition/  of  your  brethren  and  sis- 
ters in  the  Juarez  Stake  of  Zion.  They 
are  in  a  foreign  country,  a  country 
which  offers  very  few  natural  induce- 
ments to  men  and  women  who  reside 
in  the  United  States,  a  country  with 
very  little  public  land,  a  country  where 
every  inch  that  we  have  acquired  we 
have  had  to  do  so  by  continuous  effort. 
Nevertheless,  there  are,  according  to 
our  statistics,  3,751  Latter-day  Saints  in 
that  land.  They  are  scattered  over  a 
large  area.  They  are  poor  people,  but 
industrious,  God-fearing,  and  economi- 
cal. They  are  exceedingly  liberal  with 
the  limited  means  which  the  Lord  has 
given  them.  This  is  illustrated  in  the 
fact  that  about  40  of  them  have  come 
up  to  attend  this  conference,  and  I  am 
certain  that,  taking  a  very  conserva- 
tive estimate,  these  people  will  have 
spent  $5000  in  making  this  trip  before 
they  return  to  their  homes.  These  three 
thousand  and  odd  Latter-day  Saints 
paid  $50,000  in  tithing  last  year,  which 
amounts  to  about  $13.50  for  every  soul 
in  the  stake,  including  men,  women,  and 
children.  But  a  man  said  to  me  last 
night,  that  is  Mexican  money,  is  it  not? 
Yes,  that  is  Mexican  money,  and  a  Mex- 
ican dollar  counts  with  us  just  as  much 
as  an  American  dollar  counts  to  you, 


until  we  get  over  the  line,  and  they  are 
cut  in  two,  and  call  it  fifty  cents;  but 
the  Mexican  laboring  man  receives  no 
more  for  his  work,  the  teamster  or  the 
freighter  receives  no  more  for  his  work 
in  Mexico  than  he  does  in  the 
United  States,  and  at  the  same  time 
we  pay  about  three  times  as  much  for 
everything  we  consume  as  you  do  here. 
I  said  this  to  a  broker  who  was  down 
there  once,  and  he  said  he  didn't  believe 
it.  I  simply  called  attention  to  the 
fact  that  the  sugar  we  use  to  sweeten 
our  food  and  preserve  our  fruits  costs 
us  from  $15  to  $17  a  sack,  against  five 
or  six  dollars  you  pay  here;  the  fruit 
jars  we  put  our  fruit  in  cost  us  thirty- 
five  cents  a  quart  jar,as  against  eight  or 
ten  cents  you  pay  here;  the  salt  we  put 
in  our  food  costs  us  five  or  six  cents  a 
pound,  I  suppose  you  get  it  for  about 
half  a  cent;  the  flour  we  eat  costs  us 
from  six  to  nine  dollare  per  hundred 
as  against  about  two  and  a  half  dollars 
you  pay  here.  So  I  could  go  on  indefin- 
itely, and  am  certain  that  the  average 
of  prices  we  pay  for  that  which  we  con- 
sume in  Mexico  is  three  times  as  much 
as  it  is  in  the  United  States.  Not- 
withstanding these  conditions,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  building 
up  thrifty  and  prosperous  settlements. 
The  very  best  rural  towns  of  their 
age  and  size  that  I  have  ever  seen  are 
in  Mexico.  You  will  see  there  more 
good  brick  houses  that  would  be  credi- 
table to  any  community,  than  in  any 
other  towns  of  their  age  or 
size  I  have  ever  visited.  "We 
are  in  a  country  where  men 
can  work  three  hundred  and  sixty-five 
days  in  the  year.  We  are  never  idle. 
Men  wear  out  their  lives  with  hard  la- 
bor. 

The  Mexican  mission  and  those  who 
have  been  converted  to  the  Gospel 
among  the  rative  population  are  not 
included  in  the  enumeration  to  which 
I  have  referred.  There  are  several 
hundred  people  who  are  converts  to  the 
Church  in  and  around  the  city  of  Mexico. 
They  are  Indians.  There  are  about  eight 
millions  of  pure  blooded  Indians  in  the 
republic  of  Mexico,  and  probably  two 
millions  of  other  people  in  whom  the 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Indian  blood  largely  predominates, 
while  there  are  two  or  three  millions  of 
people  who  are  foreigners.  Wherever 
ive  have  gone  among  this  pure  blooded 
people  with  the  Gospel,  they  have  been 
ready  to  receive  it.  Our  greatest  effort 
is  to  keep  them  out  until  the  time 
comes  when  we  feel  prepared  to  take 
•care  of  them.  They  are  a  good  people, 
•devoted  and  God-fearing,  that  is,  those 
"who  have  embraced  the  truth.  While 
their  skins  are  dark,  they  are  a  think, 
ing  people,  and  understand  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel,  and  are  capable  of 
discussing  them  with  any  people  that 
I  have  ever  ccme  in  contact  with.  They 
are  people  of  the  covenant. 

The  very  fact  that  these  Indians  are 
beginning  to  receive  the  truth 
is  of  great  importance  to  us. 
Have  you  ever  stopped  to  con- 
template, have  you  ever  reflected 
•upon  the  fact  that  Christ  himself  said 
to  their  fathers: 

"Verily,  I  say  unto  you,  I  give  unto 
you  a  sign,  that  ye  mav  known  the  time 
when  these  things  shall  be  about  to 
take  place  [referring  to  the  fulfillment 
of  the  promises  made  to  the  seed  of 
that  people  and  to  the  restoration  of 
the  Jews]:  *  *  *  and  behold  this  is 
the  thing  which  I  will  give  unto  you 
for  a  sign: 

'"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  when 
these  things  which  I  declare  unto  you, 
and  which  I  shall  declare  unto  you 
hereafter  of  myself,  and  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  shall  be  made 
known  unto  the  Gentiles,  that  they 
may  know  concerning  this  people  who 
are  a  remnant  of  the  house  of  Jacob, 
and  concerning  this  my  people  who 
shall  be  scattered  by  them: 

"Verily,  verily.  I  say  unto  you,  when 
these  things  shall  be  made  known  unto 
them  of  the  Father,  and  shall  come  of 
the  Father,  from  them  unto  you; 

*  *  • 

"When  these  works,  and  the  works 
which  shall  be  wrought  among  you 
hereafte'1,  shall  come  forth  from  the 
Gentiles  unto  your  seed,  which  shall 
dwindle  in  unbelief  because  of  iniquity; 

*  *  * 

"And  when  these  things  come  to 
pass,  that  thy  seed  shall  begin  to  know 
these  things,  it  shall  be  a  sign  unto 
them,  that  thev  may  know  that  the 
work  of  the  Father  hath  already  com- 
menced unto  the  fulfilling  of  the  coven- 
ant which  he  hath  made  unto  the  peo- 
ple who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel." 

That  time  has  come,  my  brethren  and 


sisters.  The  works  of  the  Church  are 
translated  into  the  Spanish  language. 
These  millions  of  people  who  are  south 
of  us,  and  who  are  direct  descendants 
of  father  Lehi,  heirs  of  the  promises 
made  to  him  and  to  his  descendants, 
are  beginning  to  come  to  a  knowledge 
of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel.  It  seems  to 
me  that  a  great  responsibility  rests 
upon  us  regarding  them.  We  are  in- 
debted to  them  for  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, which  contains  the  fullness  of 
the  everlasting  Gospel,  and  which  is 
the  greatest  living  prophecy  that 
stands  before  the  world  today.  We  are 
tcld  that  if  a  man  prophecy  and  the 
things  which  he  declares  come  to  pass, 
we  may  know  by  that  that  he  is  a 
prophet;  and  I  say  that  if  the  Book 
of  Mormon  stood  alone  as  an  evidence 
of  the  divine  authenticity  of  the  mis- 
sion of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  it 
is  sufficient  to  establish  the  fact  that 
he  was  called  of  God.  It  has  unlocked 
the  door  by  which  we  are  able  to  read 
the  past.  It  declares  to  us  the  present, 
and  it  forecasts  to  us  the  future,  by 
which  we  know  that  the  triumph  of  the 
work  of  the  Lord  is  sure.  It  stands,  as 
brother  Roberts  has  said,  as  a  new 
witness  for  God  before  the  nations  of 
the  earth.  The  fact  burned  into  my 
soul  in  my  youth  that  not  one  word 
of  prophecy  which  is  contained  in  this 
book  will  fall  to  the  ground  unfulfilled. 
If  this  is  the  case,  we  know  that  the 
destiny  of  this  Church  is  very  closely 
::llied  with  the  destiny  of  these  dark- 
skinned  people  south  of  us.  We  cannot 
avoid  the  responsibility.  We  must 
carry  the  Gospel  to  them.  They  must 
be  redeemed,  they  must  come  into  the 
fold  of  Christ,  they  must  be  numbered 
with  those  who  are  already  members 
of  His  Church  before  the  redemption 
of  Zion  comes,  and  before  the  center 
stake  of  Zion  shall  be  built  up.  Read 
the  prophecies  for  yourselves,  and 
judge  whether  or  not  I  am,  correct  in 
making  this  assertion. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  in  Mexi- 
co are  laboring,  as  you  are,  in  humility 
and  in  faith  for  the  establishment  of 
God's  kingdom  in  the  earth.  We  be- 
lieve that  it  will  be  established,  that 


ELDER  JOSEPH 

His  purposes  will  be  accomplished,  and 
that  despite  the  efforts  of  men  or  devils 
to  stay  the  progress  of  this  work,  it 
will  triumph,  and  Christ  will  come 
and  reign  in  power  and  dominion  with 
His  Saints  upon  the  earth.  May  the 
Lord  help  us  to  keep  the  covenants 
that  we  have  entered  into,  to  be  true 
to  each  other,  to  be  true  to  the  Lord, 
increase  our  faith,  our  hone,  our  char- 
ity, our  good  works,  and  by  so  doing 
others  may  be  led  to  glorify  the  name 
of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  be 
brought  into  His  fold.  God  bless  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  through  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH   E.  ROBINSON. 
(President  of  California  Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  my  heart  is 
lifted  up  in  praise  and  thanksgiving 
when  I  hear  the  testimony  of  my  breth- 
ren in  relation  to  the  growth  and  ad- 
vance that  the  Church  of  Christ  is 
making  in  -the  earth.  With  Balaam  of 
old,  I  feel  to  say.  "How  goodly  are  thy 
tents.  O  Jacob,  and  thy  tabernacles,  O 
Israel!  As  the  valleys  are  they  spread 
forth,  as  gardens  by  the  river's  side, 
as  the  trees  of  lignaloes  which  the 
I«ord  hath  planted,  and  as  cedar  trees 
beside  the  waters.  Blessed  is  he  that 
olesseth  thee,  and  cursed  is  he  that 
curseth  thee." 

The  mission  that  I  have  the  honor 
of  representing  is  not  so  large  as  some 
other  missions  in  the  United  States; 
but  I  believe  it  has  as  varied  interests 
as  any  of  them.  Varied  as  is  the  state 
of  California  in  its  flora  and  fauna,  so 
is  it  socially  and  religiously.  Mt.  Shasta 
at  the  north  end  of  the  state  is  nea>rly 
three  miles  above  the  sea.  It  is  crown- 
ed with  glaciers  of  everlasting  ice.  The 
only  plant  life  near  the  snow  line  is  fhe 
lichen  and  the  moss.  Then  we  have 
in  the  Imperial  valley,  at  the  south 
end  of  the  state.  300  feet  below  sea 
level,  the  palms  and  oranges  and  dates 
of  the  warmer  countries.  Just  as 
varied  as  is  the  growth  of  vegetation, 
and  the  character  of  animal  life  be- 
tween these  two  extremes  of  altitude, 
are  the  religious  beliefs  of  that  people. 
Someone  has  said  that  there  are  1,440 


E.  ROBINSON.  57 

odd  "somebodies"  in  the  United  States 
and  80,000,000  of  "nobodies,"  and  that 
California  has  one-third  or  more  of 
these  "somebodies."  Though  I  have 
been  there  a  few  years,  I  have  not  come 
to  know  much  about  the  "somebodies;" 
but  I  have  learned  that  the  "some- 
bodies" and  "nobodies"  that  are  there 
have  a  great  many  different  ideas  of 
religion.  During  the  last  summer  it 
was  my  privilege  to  attend  some  lec- 
tures that  were  delivered  before  the 
Venice  Assembly — a  society  resort  near 
Los  Angeles.  I  came  away  from  those 
gatherings  with  a  fixed  and  firm  de- 
termination to  preach  Christ  and  Him 
ciucifled  whenever  opportunity  offered; 
for  I  found  there  that  the  men  who 
stood  up  as  social  reformers,  as  ec- 
clesiastical leaders,  as  philosophers  of 
all  the  ologies  and  isms  of  the  day, 
seem  to  have  lost  sight  of  the  fact  that 
Jesus  is  the  very  Son  of  God.  Many 
of  them  mouthed  the  same  sentiment  as 
Lyman  Abbot  had  expressed,  wherein 
he  said,  "My  God  is  an  ever-present 
energy,  manifesting  itself  in  all  the 
activities  of  human  life  and  in  all  the 
workings  of  nature.  I  believe,"  said 
he,  "in  a  God  that  is  in  all  things,  and 
through  all  things,  and  of  all  things" — 
pantheistic  wholly  in  its  nature.  I 
heard  one  of  the  most  eminent  clergy- 
men offer  a  prayer  just  before  the 
great  Baba  Bhareta  delivered  his  ad- 
dress upon  the  mission  of  the  old 
world  to  the  new — the  mission  of  the 
Buddhists  of  the  eastern  world  to  the 
Christians  of  the  western  world;  and 
in  his  prayer  he  said  something  like 
this:  "O  Thou  Great  and  Infinite  One, 
from  whom  we  emanate,  and  from 
whence  all  things  come,  who  is  of  all 
things  and  through  all  things  and  by 
all  things,  let  Thy  Spirit  rest  down 
upon  these  Thy  children  this  day,  that 
whether  the  message  be  from  Moses 
or  Job,  of  Christ  or  of  Bhudda,  or  of 
Krishna,  that  all  shall  know  that  it 
emanates  from  Thee,  the  Fount  of  Love 
alone."  I  heard  some  of  them  say,  in 
speaking  of  the  Master,  that  although 
He  was  one  of  the  greatest  leaders, 
ethically  and  morally,  that  the  world 
has  ever  produced,  fhat  He  was  en- 


58 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


dewed  with  miraculous  gifts,  that  He 
was  the  greatest  Prophet  the  world  has, 
ever  known,  yet  they  could  not  regard 
him  as  the  Son  of  God  as  do  orthodox 
Christians.  Two  weeks  ago  today,  in 
Los  Angeles,  one  of  our  little  Sunday 
school  hoys,  a  non-"Mormon,"  asked 
why  they  did  not  make  a  picture  of 
God.  He  said,  "I  have  seen  pictures  of 
angels  and  pictures  of  Jesus  Christ,  but 
why  don't  they  make  a  picture  of 
God?"  It  brought  to  my  mind  the  ad- 
dresses I  had  heard  in  the  Venice  as- 
sembly. It  was  brought  to  my  mind 
again  yesterday,  by  the  editorial  in  the 
Deseret  News  in  relation  to  what 
Joseph  Hamilton  had  said  at  Wilson, 
New  York,  to  the  effect  that  God  is  a 
Spirit,  and  at  the  same  time  he  tried 
hard  to  make  it  out  that  He  is  a  per- 
sonal being  as  well,  stating  that  He 
could  at  His  pleasure  assume  a  per- 
sonal form. 

In  California.  Christian  Science  has  a 
great  following.  In  fact,  the  religious 
atmosphere  of  that  great  state  is  ab- 
normal. Those  who  are  religious  seem 
to  be  abnormally  so.  They  have  built 
up  an  ethereal  sphere,  through  pervert- 
ed imagination  or  fancy,  that  is 
wholly  untenable  to  the  matter-of-fact 
man.  Christian  Science,  friends  and 
followers  in  that  State  have  fructified 
to  that  extent  that  there  are  many 
branches  of  Home  Love,  of  Faith  Heal- 
ing, and  of  Faith  Cure;  and  it  is  their 
hope,  so  I  have  been  told  by  some  of 
their  leaders,  that  it  will  not  be  long  be- 
fore th_ey  shall  live  and  never  taste  of 
death,  through  their  knowledge  of 
Christian  Science.  But  these  people 
deny  Jesus  as  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
God. 

It  is  a  fruitful  land  also  for  Spiritual- 
ism. Many  men  and  women  there 
study  what  they  call  the  occult  sci- 
ences. They  have  gathered  from  all 
over  the  world  This  class  of  people, 
too,  deny  that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of  God. 

We  have  there  also  headcuarters  of 
theosophy,  with  a  temple  of  Isis,  estab- 
lished for  the  very  purpose  of  resur- 
recting the  old  theosophy  of  Egypt. 
They,  too,  deny  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  God. 

Then  there  is  the  Unitarian  church, 


which  has  a  large  following.  In  fact, 
this  assembly  that  I  have  been  speaking 
of  was  conducted  and  presided  over  by 
a  Unitarian,  although  he  and  his  fol- 
lowers do  not  call  themselves  Unitari- 
ans, but  they  are  nevertheless.  They 
believe  in  one  God — Love — an  essence,  a 
force;  and  they  accept  Jesus  Christ, 
not  as  the  Son  of  God,  but  as  the  ex- 
pression of  Love  in  human  form. 

This  has  made  it  difficult  for  us  to 
proselyte  after  the  manner  of  the  Apos- 
tles of  old,  and  to  use  the  Scriptures; 
for  they  have  to  be  converted  first  of 
all  to  the  thought  that  the  Bible  may 
be  the  word  of  God,  before  they  will 
listen  to  the  scriptural  passages  we 
can  quote  to  prove  the  divinity  of 
Jesus. 

In  addition  to  those  I  have  mentioned, 
there  are  many  who  are  called  Inde- 
pendent Christians.  They  claim,  with 
the  late  Secretary  John  Hay,  that  they 
cannot  find  within  the  narrow  creed  of 
any  of  the  orthodox  churches  a  pure 
and  full  expression  of  their  ideas  of 
religion.  Among  this  class  of  people 
we  have  greater  freedom  and  are  able 
to  do  the  most  good,  because  their 
minds  are  healthy,  and  they  have  not 
the  vain  imaginations  that  others  have. 
They  listen  to  our  testimonies,  encour- 
age us,  and  give  us  the  hand  of  fel- 
lowship. In  some  of  their  organiza- 
tions we  are  privileged  to  speak,  and  In 
others  we  do  the  praying,  while  in  oth- 
ers we  have  done  the  singing,  and  con- 
ducted burial  services  over  their  dead, 
because  they  do  not  attend  to  these 
things  themselves;  their  organizations 
are  merely  for  the  cultivation  of  so- 
cial virtues,  and  for  beneficent  pur- 
poses. 

Not  a  great  while  ago  (I  believe  I 
mentioned  it  here  once,  but  it  will  not 
hurt  to  tell  it  again),  a  Catholic  priest 
came  to  me,  and  after  he  was  assured 
that  I  was  the  representative  of  om 
people— for  he  had  expected  to  see 
someone  with  a  long,  white  beard,  ven- 
erable and  dignified  in  appearance— he 
disclosed  to  me  his  identity  as  a  Cath- 
olic priest,  and  told  me  that  he  had 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  no  man 
could  live  a  correct  life  in  celibacy.  He 
had  heard  of  the  wondrous  growth  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 


59 


progress  of  our  people,  their  institu- 
tions, and  their  social  economy,  and  he 
desired  to  cast  his  lot  with  us,  that  he 
might  have  a  home  and  a  family  of  his 
own.  "But,"  said  he,  "there  is  one 
crucial  point  I  want  to  be  satisfied  upon 
before  I  can  accept  your  Gospel— do  you 
believe  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Soi» 
of  God?"  When  I  answered,  "Verily 
we  do,"  he  remarked,  "Well,  I  expect 
we  are  all  in  a  measure  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  God,  but  do  you  believe 
that  He  is  any  different  from  the  rest 
of  us,  because  I  cannot  think  that  he 
Is  more  than  the  natural  son  of  Joseph 
or  some  other  man." 

To  my  mind,  it  is  just  such  doc~ 
trines  as  those  put  forth  by  Jos&ph 
Hamilton  and  Lyman  Abbott  that  ar^ 
responsible  for  much  of  the  infidelity 
in  the  world  today  and  of  the  indiffer- 
ence towards  religion.  Men  feel,  so 
they  express  it,  that  they  can  see  as 
far  into  the  future  as  any  other  man. 
They  do  not  care,  they  say,  for  a  re- 
ligion that  deals  with  the  dead  past 
alone,  and  that  has  dead  forms;  they 
want  something  that  is  alive,  that  is 
tangible,  that  appeals  to  their  material 
minds  as  well  as  to  their  emotions,  and 
that  can  offer  them  something  to  do- 
something  that  is  reasonable  and  tangi- 
ble. 

Such  are  the  questions  that  we  are 
confronted  with  in  that  land.  There- 
fore, we  have  to  learn  something  be- 
sides the  Scripture,  and  be  enabled  tc 
bring  forth  strong  reasons  upon  these 
matters  before  we  can  satisfy  them 
that  we  have  a  religion  that  is  better 
than  other  churches  of  the  land  have 
—something  that  within  the  very  geni- 
us of  it  answers  the  demands  of  men'o 
souls,  that  is  soul-uplifting,  and  that 
brings  to  men  the  benediction  that  al- 
ways accompanies  the  truth. 

I  note  that  Mr.  Hamilton  speaks  of 
the  fact  that  God  created  man  in  Hi* 
own  image,  male  and  female;  that  Ht, 
spoke  to  Adam  in  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
that  He  reported  to  the  council  in 
heaven  that  Adam  and  Eve  had  be- 
come like  unto  them,  knowing  good 
from  evil;  that  afterwards  He  visited 
Abram;  that  He  ate  and  drank  with 


him  on  the  plains  of  Mamre,  and,  after 
the  custom  of  the  country,  had  his  feet 
bathed;  that  He  told  Abram  that  He 
had  come  down  to  see  if  the  reports  in 
relation  to  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  were 
correct;  that  afterwards  He  wrestled 
with  Jacob,  and  that  Jacob  constrained 
Him,  in  fact,  would  not  let  Him  go 
until  He  had  blessed  him;  that  He 
changed  the  name  of  Jacob  at  that  tim& 
to  Israel,  because,  He  said,  you  have 
prevailed  with  the  Lord,  and  Jacob  re- 
joiced, because,  said  he,  I  have  seen 
the  Lord  face  to  face  and  still  live.  He 
quotes  the  fact,  too,  that  God  spoke, 
to  Moses  face  to  face,  as  one  man 
speaketh  to  another,  and  not  in  vision 
nor  in  dark  sentences;  that  God  re- 
buked Miriam  and  Aaron  for  their 
jealousy  and  reminded  them  that  He 
spoke-  to  Moses  as  one  man  speaks  to- 
another,  mouth  to  mouth.  He  cites 
the  fact  also  that  Stephen  beheld  the 
Christ,  after  the  resurrection,  sitting 
upon  the  right  hand  of  the  Father, 
clothed  with  the  glory  that  He  had 
prayed  for  before  the  dread  night  of 
Gethsemane.  when  He  asked  that  the 
Father  should  restore  unto  Him  all  the 
glory  that  He  had  with  Him  before  the 
world  was;  the  fact,  too,  that  Jesus, 
the  Christ,  was  born  of  woman,  as  we 
are,  and  that  He  grew  up  as  a  child, 
like  other  children.  If  we  credit  the 
writings  of  the  early  fathers,  we  learn 
that  He  used  to  fashion  animals,  birds, 
etc.,  of  clay;  that  in  His  father's  work- 
shop He  learned  to  fashion  the  yoke 
for  the  cattle,  and  make  tools,  and' 
build  after  the  manner  of  that  day.  Wc 
learn  that  afterwards,  when  John  had 
become  converted  because  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  descending  upon  Him  in  the  sign 
of  a  dove,  the  same  bore  witness  to  His 
Apostles  that  He  was  the  Lamb  of 
God,  who  taketh  away  the  sins  of  the 
world;  yet  this  same  Jesus  suffered 
hunger  and  thirst,  and  the  adversary 
strove  to  tempt  Him  and  lead  Him 
astray  from  the  path  of  righteousness 
because  of  His  hunger,  fatigue  and 
thirst. 

We  understand  that  He  went  to  Naz- 
areth, the  home  of  His  youth,  and  took 
up  the  Scriptures  as  was  His  wont  up- 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


on  the  Sabbath  day  to  teach  them.  Clad 
w  ith  newer  and  greater  authority,  hav- 
ing come  into  the  fulness  of  manhood 
and  privileged,  under  the  law,  to  take 
up  the  ministry,  He  taught  as  one  hav- 
ing authority,  and  they  resented  it  and 
cast  Him  out,  saying,  "Is  He  not  Jos- 
eph the  carpenter's  son,  and  have  we 
not  His  brothers  and  sisters  with  us 
till  this  very  day?"  How  sad  the  words 
of  the  Master  as  He  turns  from  them— 
"a  prophet  is  not  without  honor,  save 
in  his  own  country  and  among  his  own 
people."  They  know  how  He  was  mock- 
ed by  the  Pharisees  and  the  Sadducees, 
when,  fatigued  and  ill  with  privation 
and  with  the  wondrous  labors  he  per- 
formed, they  cried  unto  him.  Physician, 
heal  thyself.  They  watch  Him  through 
His  course  of  life.  They  can  read  of 
it  as  do  we.  How  He  wept  over  the 
death  of  Lazarus;  how  He  seemed  as 
a  man  among  men,  aside  from  His  mi- 
raculous powers  of  healing  and  divina- 
tion. At  the  same  time  He  promised 
that  those  who  believed  on  Him  should 
do  the  works  which  He  did,  and  greater 
works,  and  that  the  same  signs  should 
follow  the  true  believer  unto  the  end 
of  the  world.  We  know,  too,  that  the 
early  Apostles  did  raise  the  dead  to 
life,  performed  miracles,  cast  out  evil 
spirits,  opened  the  eyes  of  the  blind, 
unstopped  the  ears  of  the  deaf,  and 
caused  the  lame  to  leap  like  the  hart. 
They  read  of  the  Master  as  He  went 
to  Golgotha,  breaking  down  like  a  weak 
man  under  the  heavy  cross.  They  read 
how  He  died  as  a  man  dies.  Notwith- 
standing all  these  things  they  feel  that 
He  was  no  more  than  man.  They 
lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  He  was  a 
perfect  man,  enjoying  the  full  capabili- 
ties of  man;  and  that  because  of  His 
parentage  He  had  more  than  manhood, 
that  He  had  power  inherent  within 
Himself  to  break  the  bands  of  death 
and  take  his  body  up  again.  It  is  afTer 
the  resurrection  that  we  note  the 
greatest  difference.  He  appears  before 
His  disciples  in  the  self-same  body, 
showing  the  prints  of  the  nails  in  His 
hands  and  feet,  and  the  mark  of  the 
spear-thrust  in  His  side,  and  asks  the 
doubting  one  to  come  and  test  Him,  for 


a  spirit  had  not  flesh  and  bones  as  He 
had.  We  see  Him  then  partaking  of 
food  with  His  disciples  and  laboring 
with  them  for  40  days.  We  then  read 
of  His  ascension  into  heaven  in  the 
same  bodily  form  that  He  had  while 
sojourning  among  the  children  of  men; 
and  angels  testified  to  those  sons  of 
Galilee  that  as  He  ascended  into  heav- 
en, in  the  same  manner  He  should  also 
descend.  John  says,  "Beloved,  when 
He  comes  we  shall  be  like  Him,  and 
we  shall  see  Him  as  He  is" — not  as  the 
vain  imaginations  of  men  would  make 
Him,  but  as  the  express  image  of  His 
Father's  person,  in  the  likeness  of  His 
Father. 

It  seems  to  me  that  if  men  would 
study  these  things  as  they  are  written, 
and  not  spiritualize  them,  they  could 
not  help  but  admit  the  fact  that  we 
are  in  the  image  of  our  Father;  that 
as  He  is  the  father  of  our  spirits  He  is 
also  the  Father  of  Jesus,  the  Christ. 
And  more,  that  He  was  the  Father  of 
Jesus,  the  Christ,  in  the  flesh,  the  only 
begotten  in  the  flesh.  And  so  I  repeat. 
I  have  felt  constrained  to  preach  more 
strenuously  "Jesus  Christ  and  Him  cru- 
cified," and  the  personality  of  our 
Father,  and  the  fact  that  we  are  indeed 
His  children,  and  that  we  are  com- 
manded to  become  perfect  like  Him, 
and  we  may  become  like  Him  if  we 
follow  in  the  way  which  the  Master 
hath  marked  out.  I  believe  that  the 
greatest  revelation  given  in  these  the 
last  days  was  the  vision  of  Joseph  the 
Prophet  when  he  saw  God  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  and  made  statement  of  the 
fact  that  man  is  in  the  image  of  Deity. 
This  revelation  abolishes  icomplietejly 
the  theory  of  the  men  I  have  quoted, 
and  annuls  the  Athanasian  creed, which 
obtains  in  the  Roman  Catholic  and 
Episcopal  faiths,  and  is  printed  in  their 
creeds  even  unto  this  day.  I  believe 
if  men  would  study  more  of  Jesus,  the 
Christ,  they  would  come  near  to  know- 
ing who  our  Father  is  and  what  He  is 
like.  Then  they  might  accept  Jesus 
as  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father, 
and  turn  to  Him,  and  love  and  follow 
Him,  and  rejoice  in  the  prerogatives  of 
the  everlasting  gospel. 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  F.  GODDARD. 


61 


This  is  why  we  are  striving  to  preach 
to  the  people  the  divinity  of  Jesus,  be- 
cause of  their  disbelief  in  the  Son  of 
God.  I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  in  our  lives  we  shall  emulate  the 
example  of.  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  for 
then  we  may  become  joint  heirs  with 
Him  to  the  power  and  the  prerogatives 
of  our  Father.  When  men  have  been 
told  these  things,  it  has  uplifted  their 
hearts,  and  their  minds  have  been  ex- 
alted with  the  concept  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  of  Jesus,  the  Christ. 
Many  men  have  told  me  that  they  have 
had  a  new  incentive  to  live  aright,  a 
deeper  hope  and  a  deeper  faith  had 
been  implanted  in  their  hearts  because 
of  the  testimony  of  the  Elders  in  rela- 
tion to  the  personality  of  God  the  Fath- 
er, and  that  Jesus  is  indeed  His  Son. 

God  bless  you,  my  brothers  and  sis- 
ters. Pray  for  us  in  the  mission  field, 
as  we  pray  for  you.  We  have  the  right 
to  expect  a  great  deal  of  you,  that  as 
we  are  looked  upon  as  representatives 
of  our  people,  that  you  at  home  shall 
do  your  part  well;  that  all  we  say  in 
our  pride  and  love  for  you  shall  be 
maintained  and  upheld:  that  you  will 
prove  you  are  the  people  of  God,  that 
our  mission  in  the  world  is  the  uplift- 
ing of  humanity,  and  that  in  the  due 
time  of  the  Lord  we  shall  succeed  in 
it;  which  God  grant,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus,  the  Christ.  Amen. 

The  anthem  "How  beautiful  upon  the 
mountains"  was  sung  by  the  choir,  and 
the  solo  parts  were  rendered  by  Sister 
Lizzie  T.  Edward  and  Elder  John  Rob- 
inson. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Charles  F.  Mid- 
dleton. 

The  Tabernacle  was  excessively 
crowded,  and.  soon  after  the  morning 
meeting  commenced,  it  was  announced 
that  an  overflow  meeting  would  be  held 
in  the  Assembly  hall. 


OVERFLOW  flEETING. 

An  overflow  session  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  hall,  commencing  at  10:30 
a.  m.  The  presiding  officer  was  Elder 
Rudger  Clawson.  and  Prof.  Charles  J. 
Thomas  conducted  the  singing,  assist- 
ed by  the  Temple  choir. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn : 


Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  sal- 
vation, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam ; 

Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 
each  nation, 
And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption 
will  come. 

ELDER  BENJAMIN  F.  GODDARD. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  esteem  it 
a  privilege  to  meet  with  you  in  gen- 
eral conference  and  participate  in  the 
spirit  that   prevails  amongst   us.  It 
is  indeed  gratifying  to  thus  meet  to- 
gether, that  we  may  renew  our  ac- 
quaintance with     friends    residing  in 
different  parts  of  our  state  and  the  sur- 
rounding states,  and  that  we  may  also, 
listen  to  the  instructions  given  unto  us 
by  our  beloved  leaders,  and  indicate 
unto  them  in  general  conference  that 
we  sustain  them  with  our  faith  and 
prayers,  with  uplifted     hands  before 
God.     I  realize  that  our  brethren,  who 
are  with  us  today,  need  the  support 
and  strength  that  can  be  given  unto 
them  by  the  united  faith  and  prayers 
and  manifestations  of  good-will  from 
the   Saints  assembled  in  general  con- 
ference.    I  rejoice  in  thus  meeting  to- 
gether, but  presume  probably,  that  it 
may  be  more  interesting  ,to  refer  par- 
ticularly to  the  work  that  I  am  most 
closely  associated  with,  upon  the  Tem- 
ple block.     We  instituted,  in  1902,  the 
Bureau  of  Information.     As  probably- 
very  few   of   the  Saints  realize  the 
method  of  our  work,  or  what  is  being 
accomplished  in  this  part  of  the  Lord's 
vineyard,  I  will  say  that  during  the 
past  year  we  have  entertained  upon  the 
Temple  block  the  strangers  that  have 
come  from  various  parts  of  the  world, 
numbering  over  175,000;   and  we  have 
had  ample  opportunities  of  distributing 
to  them  our  literature,  explaining  our 
work,  the  organization  of  the  Church 
and  the  labors  we  are  performing  for 
the  salvation  of  the  children  of  men. 
Probably  in  no  part  of  the  world  have 
we  an  opportunity  of  portraying  so  for- 
cibly some  of    these  principles  as  we 
have  here  upon  this  block,  for,    as  we 
pass  round  with  our  stranger  friends, 
and  visit  these  buildings,  and  explain 
to  them  some  of  the  distinctive  features 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


thereof,  there  is  scarcely  one  moment 
without  an  opportunity  of  introducing- 
something  pertaining  to  our  history  or 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel.  If  we 
come  into  the  Assembly  Hall  and  ex- 
plain to  them  why  this  building  was 
erected,  and  its  seating  capacity,  many 
of  them  at  once  observe  a  difference 
between  our  seating  arrangement  and 
that  which  is  usually  found  in  modern 
churches.  "And,  why  is  this?"  Of 
course,  the  explanation  is  promptly 
given,  that  our  seats  are  all  alike  for 
rich  and  poor,  for  strangers  as  well 
as  our  own  members,  that  seats  are 
free,  that  there  are  no  collections  made, 
no  donations  received.  And  what  does 
it  lead  to,  think  you?  "Why,  the  ques- 
tion at  once  being  asked,  "How,  then 
do  you  support  your  Church?"  Im- 
mediately we  have  an  opportunity  to 
explain  the  tithing  system  of  the 
Church,  which  contrasts  so  favorably 
with  the  financial  systems  that  pre- 
vail generally  in  the  world.  Aston- 
ishment is  often  expressed,  and  por- 
trayed upon  the  countenances  of  our 
visitors,  when  they  learn  how  freely 
and  cheerfully  our  brethren  and  sisters 
pay  their  tithing,  in  order  that  we  may 
not  only  erect  places  of  worship,  and 
Temples  for  the  salvation  of  the  dead, 
but  that  we  may  be  able  to  sustain  the 
poor  and  help  our  brethren  in  times  of 
distress.  As  we  continue  our  conver- 
sation, sometimes  that  painting  over 
the  organ  here  attracts  their  attention, 
and  they  wonder  if  it  is  not  some  mys- 
terious symbol  associated  with 
those  rites  that  they  have  heard  so 
much  of  in  connection  with  th&  "Mor- 
mon" Church.  And  what  does  it  lead 
to?  The  fact  that  when  our  pioneer 
fathers  came  here  they  gave  to  this  re- 
gion, that  was  then  a  desert,  the  name 
of  Deseret.  "Ah!  what  means  it?"  Not 
desert,  as  they  sometimes  imagine,  but 
that  it  is  a  Book  of  Mormon  term, 
meaning  the  honey-bee;  and  hence  we 
attract  attention  to  the  industrious 
features  of  the  "Mormon"  people,  and 
how  they  have  been  asked  to  emulate  the 
bee,  the  bee-hive  being  adopted  as  our 
territorial,  and  since,  as  our  state,  em- 
blem.     By  their  industry  they  have  de- 


veloped the  resources  of  this  state;  and 
by  so  doing  have  made  Utah 
admired  far  and  wide  because  of  the 
industrious  character  of  its  people. 
"Ah!  but  there  is  something  else  there," 
they  say;  "what  means  that  all-seeing 
eye?"  And  then  comes  the  explanation 
that  when  we  were  driven  out  of  the 
East,  to  the  abode  of  the  Indian,  to  this 
desert  region,  that  we  recognized  that 
God's  eye  had  been  upon  us  and  that 
Ho  had  preserved  and  favored  our  fa- 
thers and  mothers,  that  His  watchful 
care  had  been  over  them,  and  that  He 
had  blessed  and  guided  them;  that 
President  Young,  inspired  of  Him,  had 
been  able  to  lead  the  people  into  the 
land  that  God  had  chosen  for  their 
dwelling  place  in  these  mountain  val- 
leys. And  thus,  as  yau  will  observe, 
while  we  pass  through  the  block  we 
have  ample  opportunities  for  introduc- 
ing not  only  points  connected  with  the 
character  of  the  people,  but  some  of 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and  the  his- 
tory of  the  Church.  If  we  pass  into 
the  Tabernacle,  again  our  visitors  are 
astonished  at  the  demonstrations  that 
are  made  there.  When  our  dear  friend, 
brother  Thomas  comes  up  and  drops 
the  pin  on  the  stand  rail,  that  they  may 
hear  it  at  the  extreme  end  of  the  gal- 
lery, they  are  astonished  at  the  mar- 
velous acoustic  properties  of  the  build- 
ing. This  leads  to  a  statement  of  the 
fact  that  the  Tabernacle  was  designed 
and  erected  under  the  direction  of 
President  Brigham  Young,  whom  we 
recognize  as  a  Prophet  of  God.  As  we 
view  also  the  arrangement  of  our 
stands,  the  question  often  is  asked, 
"What  means  these  three  pulpits?  Why 
not  have  one  pulpit,  as  we  have  in  our 
churches?"  This  leads  to  an  explana- 
tion of  the  organization  of  the  Church, 
the  Melchisedek  Priesthood  and  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  how  they  operate, 
why  they  are  thus  given  unto  us,  and 
the  special  workings  of  the  various  of- 
ficers of  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood, the 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  and 
the  officers  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
the  work  that  each  has  to  perform  in 
connection  with  the  Saints  of  God,  thus 
giving  ample  opportunity  for  explaining 


ELDER    BENJAMIN    F.  GODDARD. 


63 


the  various  callings  of  the  Priesthood 
and  showing-  how  perfect  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  church  of  God  is,  as  reveal- 
ed to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  And 
then,  as  we  come  beneath  the  shadow 
of  our  beautiful  Temple,  and  we  are 
asked  the  meaning  of  that  figure  upon 
the  center  tower  at  the  east  end  of  the 
Temple,  cannot  my  brethren  and  sisters 
comprehend  how  glad  we  are  to  explain 
to  our  visiting  frinds  that  Moroni  has 
come  to  the  earth,  bringing  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel,  revealing  unto  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  hiding  place 
of  the  records  from  which  we  have  re- 
ceived the  Book  of  Mormon.  How  by 
the  information  contained  in  that  rec- 
ord, we  are  able  to  teach  the  fulness 
of  the  Gospel;  and  how  the  Lord  has 
revealed  Himself  in  our  day,  the  Father 
and  the  Son  having  appeared  unto  the 
Prophet.  The  Angel  Moroni  also  hav- 
ing appeared  unto  the  Prophet,  the 
prophecy  of  John  the  Revelator  has 
thus  been  verified,  that  "I  saw  another 
angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  hav- 
ing the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  to 
them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,"  and  so 
on;  this  prophecy  having  been  literally 
fulfilled  in  our  day. 

I  do  not  know  how  closely  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  who  come  from  a  dis- 
tance, examine  that  beautiful  structure. 
As  I  gaze  upon  it  day  after  day  and 
month  after  month  I  learn  new  lessons. 
I  am  grateful  unto  God  for  the  reve- 
lations of  His  will  given  unto  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

Scarcely  a  month  passes  without  some 
new  thought  developing  in  connection 
therewith.  The  three  east  towers  rep- 
resenting the  Melchisedek  Prisethood, 
or  the  presiding  officers  thereof,  the 
three  west  towers  representing  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood.  And  there  are  oth- 
er symbols.  There  is  scarcely  a  day 
passes  but  we  come  to  the  west  end  of 
the  Temple  and  many  of  our  friends, 
perceiving  there  those  seven  stars,  the 
Dipper,  as  they  call  it,  Ursa  Major,  ask 
"What  meaneth  it?  Why  do  you  have 
them  upon  that  tower  facing  west- 
ward?" We  simply  explain  to  them,  as 
that  constellation  in  the  heavens  is  al- 
ways pointing  unto  the  north  star,  so 


this  Temple  points  unto  God,  and  indi- 
cates to  the  Saints  that  therein 
they  may  learn  more  perfectly  how  to 
walk  in  the  way  of  the  Lord,  and  how 
to  gain  an  exaltation  in  His  presence. 
And  then,  "why  do  you  have  so  many 
stars  over  the  windows?  Why  a  star 
over  every  window?  Why  that  symbol 
of  the  sun  over  the  upper  stories?  Why 
those  symbols  of  the  moon,  a  half- 
moon,  a  full  moon,  a  quarter  moon?" 
And  what  does  it  lead  to,  think  you? 
To  a  description  of  the  Temple  more 
fully.  Those  are  signs  indicating  our 
abode  .here  and  how  we  have  come  to 
fill  our  probation  upon  this  earth  and 
perfect  ourselves  that  we  may  regain 
an  exaltation  in  the  presence  of  our 
God,  "And  how?"  by  obeying  the  laws 
that  God  has  revealed.  And  then  comes 
the  thought  that  in  the  great  future  we 
are  aspiring  unto  glories  that  God  has 
prepared  for  the  faithful.  And  we  thus 
teach,  that,  as  "there  is  a  glory  of  the 
sun,  a  glory  of  the  moon,  a  glory  of 
the  stars,  and  as  one  star  differeth  from 
another  in  glory,  so  also  is  the  resur- 
rection of  the  dead."  And  thus  we  go 
on,  and  we  have  ample  opportunity  of 
showing  how  God  has  revealed  His 
mind  and  will,  until  we  lead  up  to  that 
grandest  of  all  themes,  the  salvation  of 
the  dead;  the  redemption  of  those  who 
have  passed  away,  and  how,  in  that 
great  Temple,  as  well  as  in  others,  we 
are  able  to  officiate  for  our  ancestry  by 
being  baptized  for  them,  believing  that 
in  the  spirit  world  the  Gospel  also  is 
preached  unto  them  that  are  dead  that 
they  might  be  judged  according  to  men 
in  the  flesh.  As  we  have  our  experiences 
increased,  day  by  day,  we  are  able  to 
lift  up  our  hearts  to  God  in  thankful- 
ness that  He  has  given  unto  us.through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  these  heav- 
enly principles;  and  we  are  prouder 
than  ever  of  the  Church  to  which  we 
belong,  and  of  the  brethren  who  are 
called  to  lead  and  guide  us  as  a  peo- 
ple. 

I  thank  God  that  He  has  given  unto 
me  a  testimony  of  this  work,  that  I 
verily  know  that  God  has  restored  the 
Gospel  to  the  earth;  that  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  was  inspired  of  Him  and 
that  through  him  we  have  not  only  re- 


64 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


ceived  the  Church  itself  with  all  its  gifts 
powers  and  blessings  and  revelations 
for  the  guidance  thereof,  but  we  have 
received  living  testimonies  in  our 
hearts,  and  we  know  that  all  the  gifts, 
powers  and  blessings  pertaining  to  the 
Gospel  of  Christ  are  with  us  today,  for 
the  power  of  God  is  made  manifest  in 
our  families.  Our  children  are  growing 
up  to  realize  that  God  is  with  us  as  a 
people,  that  He  sanctifies  the  minis- 
trations of  the  Elders  and  that  the 
power  of  God  is  amongst  this  people. 

I  pray  that  God  will  bless  us,  that 
He  will  enable  us  to  withstand  the 
weaknesses  of  the  flesh,  the  tempta- 
tions that  assail  us,  that  we  may  prove 
valiant  for  the  truth;  and  that  we  may 
assist  to  the  utmost  of  our  ability  in 
building  up  the  Church  of  God  and  sus- 
tain by  our  faith  and  prayers,  by  our 
lives,  by  our  words,  by  our  works,  those 
who  are  called  to  lead  and  guide  us  in 
this  age;  and  may  God  bless  us  con- 
tinually. Unto  this  end  I  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  A.  M'RAE, 
(President  of  Colorado  Mission.) 
I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
with  you  this  morning  in  the  oppor- 
tunity we  have  of  meeting  together 
under  such  favorable  circumstances. 
I  recall  a  conversation  I  had  in  the 
Bureau  of  Information,  some  few 
months  ago,  with  a  gentleman  who 
claimed  that  this  Church  was  on  the 
decline,  that  it  was  not  growing.  I 
thought  of  this  man  as  I  came  into 
this  building,  after  having  left  the 
Tabernacle  yonder  and  seen  the  thou- 
snds  of  people  who  are  gathered  there 
to  hear  the  voices  of  the  servants  of 
the  Lord,  and  I  thought  if  that  man 
could  have  been  there,  and  then  come 
over  to  this  building,  and  then  could 
have  realized  that  this  is  only  a  small 
representation  of  our  great  Church, 
probably  he  would  change  his  mind. 
I  know  that  the  Church  is  growing; 
that  it  is  increasing,  and  spreading 
abroad,  and  it  is  having  influence 
among  the  peoples  of  the  world.  My 
missionary  work  has  called  me  in  a 
little  different  line  from  that  of  the. 


former  speaker.  Brother  Goddard  has 
been  telling  us  of  the  work  that  is  be- 
ing accomplished  among  strangers 
visiting  the  Temple  block,  while  the 
work  which  I  have  to  perform  is  in 
the  mission  field  abroad,  in  the  states 
lying  adjacent  to  this  state.  The  de- 
mands for  more  Elders  cannot  be  sup- 
plied. We  need  many  more  men  in  the 
mission  field,  energetic  men,  efficient 
men.  men  of  experience.  I  feel  that 
those  who  have  been  on  missions  before 
should  prepare  themselves  for  other 
missions  in  the  near  future,  for  there 
is  a  great  work  to  be  accomplished  be- 
fore the  end  comes.  It  seems  to  me, 
when  1  view  the  signs  of  the  times  and 
read  the  reports  in  the  newspapers, 
that  the  time  is  near  at  hand  when 
mission  work  must  be  hastened,  be- 
cause the  time  for  the  Gospel  to  be 
preached  unto  all  people  is  drawing 
near  to  a  close;  therefore  the  number  of 
workers  must  l;e  greatly  increased.  I 
have  been  almost  on  the  point  of  writ- 
ing to  the  Presidency  to  ascertain  how 
long  we  are  going  to  continue  work  in 
the  Colorado  mission,  for  the  Elders 
are  returning  home,  and  new  ones  are 
not  being  sent  to  fill  vacancies  in  the 
mission  field.  I  remember  a  remark 
made  in  a  little  editorial  article  in  one 
of  the  magazines  Brother  Rich  pub- 
lishes in  the  south,  and  I  thought  it 
was  very  appropriate.  He  said  in  that: 
"We  had  three  Elders  come  this 
month,"  and  then  followed  by  quoting: 
"Only  three  grains  of  corn,  mother, 
only  three  grains  of  corn,  to  keep  the 
little  life  I  have  till  the  coming  of  the 
morn."  I  thought  this  truly  appropri- 
ate to  the  present  condition  of  mission 
work.  There  are  requests  being  sent 
to  us  from  various  parts  of  the  mis- 
sion today,  solicating  us  to  send  Elders 
to  the  people  who  make  these  requests 
to  explain  to  them  the  Gqspel,  and  we 
cannot  comply;  we  simply  do  not  have 
them  to  send. 

I  have  been  greatly  pleased  by  the 
work  that  has  been  accomplished  by 
cur  young  ladies  sent  into  the  mission 
field.  They  have  been  able  to  enter 
the  homes  of  people  that  the  Elders 
could  not  gain  access  to.    They  have 


ELDER   JOSEPH   A.  McRAE. 


65 


been  able  to  accomplish  much  in  ex- 
plaining' the  Gospel  unto  the  people, 
and  in  teaching  the  women  and  child- 
ren, where  the  Elders  could  not  get 
a  hearing.  Therefore  I  feel  that  they 
have  done  a  great  and  good  work,  and 
the  end  is  not  yet;  in  fact  it  has 
only  begun.  They  go  into,  the  world 
and  teach  the  people  the  religion  of  the 
Saints,  from  the  womens'  standpoint; 
and  they  tell  the  people  of  the  world 
"how  the  women  of  Utah  live,  and  how 
they  feel,  and  the  people  seem  to  ap- 
preciate it  better  because  women  teach 
it  to  them.  We  have  heard  it  stated, 
"we  like  to  hear  what  the  women  have 
to  say  about  the  'Mormon'  question." 
Our  sisters  have  manifested  that  they 
can  go  into  the  world  and  preach  the 
Gospel,  and  show  that  the  women  here 
are  not  bound  and  down-trodden,  as 
the  world  think  and  represent  them 
to  be. 

This  work  is  growing  and  increasing. 
It  seems  that  my  mind  is  centered  up- 
on that  fact,  for  it  is  being  made  evi- 
dent more  and  more  in  the  field  and  at 
home.  Again  I  say,  we  need  more 
men  of  experience  to  proclaim  the  Gos- 
pel of  peace  unto  the  people.  I  often 
think  that  I  would  like  to  take  a  trip 
through  various  parts  of  Zion,  and  se- 
lect a  few  men  and  induce  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church  to  call  them  into 
the  field.  At  present  I  am  in  the  office 
myself,  doing  the  necessary  bookkeep- 
ing work  of  the  office,  for  the  reason 
that  we  can  not  spare  an  efficient  man 
to  perform  that  labor,  as  all  are  needed 
in  the  mission  field.  So,  we  are  handi- 
capped in  performing  the  duties  devolv- 
ing upon  us  in  the  missionary  field. 
Brother  Goddard  has  been  telling  us  of 
the  oportunjties  and  enjoyment  they 
have  in  the  performance  of  their  duties 
on  the  Temple  block.  A  few  months  ago 
I  spent  a  few  hours  in  the  building  over 
there,  the  Bureau  of  Information,  and 
I  don't  think  that  I  ever  spent  a  few 
hours  more  profitably  than  I  did  on 
that  occasion,  explaining  the  Gospel  to 
the  people;  I  did  not  act  as  a  guide 
but  entertained  the  people  who  came  in 
there  until  the  guides  who  could  take 
them  out  arrived.  I  enjoyed  the  ex- 
5 


perience  very  much.  I  believe  Brother 
Goddard  would  be  thankful  if  he  could 
have  a  few  more  who  are  able  and 
competent  to  entertain  the  people  come 
and  labor  in  explaining  the  Gospel  to 
those  who  visit  them  and  wish  to  have 
"Mormonism"  explained.  They  come 
here  sometimes  for  the  purpose  of  find- 
ing fault,  and  scoffing  at  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  these  guides  explain  the 
Gospel  unto  them,  and  many  go  away 
pleased  and  benefitted.  We  have  been 
performing  a  somewhat  similar  labor  in 
Manitou,  Colorado.  There  we  have  met 
thousands  of  people  in  the  summer  re- 
sorts, and  we  have  done  the  best  we 
could  to  enlighten  them  in  regard  to 
our  principles.  During  the  past  summer 
we  have  distributed  twenty  to  twenty- 
five  thousand  pamphlets  that  teach  the 
articles  of  our  faith,  explain  the  organ- 
zation  of  the  Church,  and  give  some 
idea  of  what  we  are  doing.  Although 
it  has  proved  to  be  a  financial  burden, 
yet  I  think  it  has  been  a  success  in  pre- 
senting the  Gospel  to  many  people.  I 
believe  that  many  who  have  heard  the 
Elders  there  during  the  last  year  will 
ask  for  more  information.  The  pam- 
phets  and  books  that  have  gone  out 
from  Manitou  this  year  will  increase  in- 
terest, and  people  will  come  to  learn 
further  of  us  concerning  our  doctrines. 

A  gentleman  came  into  my  house  last 
Thursday;  we  have  been  acquainted 
with  him  a  long  time.  He  has  opposed 
us,  but  he  has  done  it  in  a  gentle  man- 
ner, and  from  a  Bible  standpoint.  He 
is  a  Bible  student,  and  I  have  thought 
he  has  been  a  minister,  he  is  so  well 
cersed  in  the  Scripture.  He  has  re- 
cently been  reading  the  life  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  he  said  to 
me.  "I  never  thought  that  your  people 
were  so  ill-treated  as  they  have  been. 
I  did  not  think  we  lived  in  a  nation 
that  would  treat  anybody  as  your  peo- 
ple have  been  treated.  Why,  to  read  of 
the  way  they  have  been  driven,  mobbed 
and  persecuted,  makes  my  blood  boil  to 
think  of  it;  I  am  ashamed  of  that  part 
of  the  history  of  this  nation,  and  of 
such  doings  as  those;  my  heart  bleeds 
for  what  your  people  have  suffered." 
When  he  was  speaking  to  me,  the  tears 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ran  down  his  cheeks.  I  took  him  into 
our  little  chapel,  and  showed  him  there 
the  stand  where  we  have  two  Ameri- 
can flags  draped,  and  in  the  center  of 
those  two  flags  the  picture  of  George 
Washington,  and  I  showed  him  that  we 
reverence  our  flag.  He  turned  to  me 
and  said,  "I  think  you  reverence  this 
flag  too  much,"  I  said,  "It  was  not  the 
flag  that  persecuted  this  people;  it  was 
not  the  Constitution  that  oppressed  us, 
but  it  was  the  men  who  stood  at  the 
head  of  the  mobs,  and  they  are  the  men 
whom  God  will  hold  responsible  in  the 
life  to  come.  They  will  have  to  ac- 
count for  the  things  that  they  have 
done  in  the  flesh.  We  respect  that  flag, 
and  we  will  do  our  utmost  to  maintain 
the  freedom  that  has  been  guaranteed 
unto  us  and  all  other  people  under  that 
flag." 

This  Gospel,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
is  true.  It  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation  unto  all  who  believe  and 
obey  it.  It  is  making  inroads  among 
the  thinking  classes  of  all  nations,  and 
they  are  beginning  to  take  notice  of  us. 
I  heard  one  of  the  Apostles  prophecy 
that  all  nations  would  yet  come  to  us 
to  learn  various  arts  and  sciences  of 
peace,  and  the  science  of  civil  govern- 
ment. They  would  come  to  us  to  learn 
how  to  govern  the  nations.  The  things 
that  Brother  Goddard  has  been  telling 
us  this  morning  have  brought  these 
thoughts  to  my  mind  vividly.  The  or- 
ganization of  the  people,  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church,  has  been  established 
by  divine  wisdom.  It  is  complete  in 
every  detail:  and.  as  we  heard  yester- 
day, if  three  men  are  taken  away 
twelve  men  immeditely  take  their  place, 
and  it  is  an  impossibility  to  destroy  this 
great  work.  It  is  an  impossibility  to 
frustrate  the  designs  of  the  Almighty. 
When  any  man  or  woman  stands  in  the 
way,  and  undertakes  to  thwart  the  ef- 
forts that  are  being  put  forth  to  pro- 
claim this  Gospel  unto  the  people,  God 
will  bring  their  efforts  to  naught,  He 
will  frustrate  them.  Shame  will  be 
brought  upon  their  own  heads. 

This  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  He 
will  prosper  it.    May  God  bless  nid  help 


us  to  appreciate  it,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER   ANDREW  JENSON. 

I  desire  to  read  a  few  verses  of  Scrip- 
ture, found  in  First  Corinthians,  second 
chapter,  commencing  at  the  first  verse. 
It  is  a  saying  of  Paul  to  the  church  in 
Corinth: 

"And  I,  brethren,  when  I  came  to 
you,  came  not  with  excellency  of  speecn 
or  of  wisdom,  declaring  unto  you  the 
testimony  of  God.  For  I  determined 
not  to  know  anything  among  you  save 
Jesus  Christ  and  Him  crucified.  And 
I  was  with  you  in  weakness,  and  in 
fear,  and  in  much  trembling.  And  my 
speech  and  my  preaching  was  not  with 
enticing  words  of  man's  wisdom,  but  in 
demonstration  of  the  spirit  and  power, 
that  your  faith  should  not  stand  in  the 
wisdom  of  men,  but  in  the  power  of 
God." 

Yesterday  afternoon  we  listened  to 
very  interesting  discourses  from  broth- 
ers Penrose  and  Roberts  in  regard  to 
the  great  latter-day  work;  and  strong 
testimonies  have  been  borne  through- 
out the  entire  conference.  The  breth- 
ren have  been  led  apparently  to  testify 
of  the  goodness  of  God  toward  His  peo- 
ple, and  also  of  the  faithfulness  and 
good  character  of  the  men  who  stand 
at  the  head  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Men  have 
endeavored  to  entice  people  away  from 
this  Church,  by  saying  that  the  Lord 
has  rejected  it,  and  there  are  some  who 
have  been  weak  in  the  faith,  and  who 
are  weak  at  the  present  time,  that  can 
perhaps  be  influenced  by  these  men 
who  rise  against  those  whom  the  Lord 
has  appointed.  But  I  desire  to  draw 
your  attention  to  these  words  which  I 
have  read  on  this  occasion,  not  that  I 
intend  to  make  it  a  text,  yet  I  wish 
to  express  a  thought  in  connection  with 
them. 

When  Christ  sent  out  His  Apostles  in 
ancient  days.  He  sent  fishermen,  not 
the  Rabbis  of  the  Jewish  people,  but 
men  who  were  numbered  among  the 
rank  and  file  of  the  Jewish  people,  fish- 
ermen from  the  sea  of  Galilee,  publi- 
pans   and    sinners.     The   Lord  chose 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 


67 


them  to  be  His  messengers.  In  read- 
ing the  history  about  these  men,  how 
they  went  forth  after  Christ  had  been 
crucified  and  had  risen  from  the  dead, 
we  stand  face  to  face  with  that  which 
we  find  in  these  words  of  Paul.  These 
men  did  not  go  forth  in  their  own 
strength,  but  the  power  of  Goa  was 
with  them.  In  going  forth  to  testify 
to  that  which  they  had  seen  and  heard 
they  were  not  permitted  to  do  so  un- 
til they  were  endowed  by  the  power  of 
God  from  on  high.  Do  you  not  re- 
member how  they  were  told  to  tarry 
in  Jerusalem  and  not  open  their  mouths 
in  regard  to  who  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
was  until  the  Holy  Ghost  should  come 
upon  them,  not  until  then  were  they 
permitted  to  testify  of  that  which  they 
knew.  We  follow  with  great  interest 
the  labors  of  these  men,  and  note  how 
strong  they  were.  We  find  them  com- 
mencing their  labors  on  the  day  of 
Pentecost;  these  fishermen  were  able 
to  speak  the  word  of  God  in  power 
and  great  demonstration  to  the  mul- 
titude assembled  upon  that  occasion. 
We  follow  them,  I  say,  and  discover 
that  even  Paul,  who  was,  as  we  have 
learned,  an  educated  man  as  compared 
with  the  others,  yet  he  did  not  desire 
to  know  anything,  or  did  not  claim  to 
know  anything,  except  Jesus  Christ  and 
him  crucified,  and  so  he  came  not  with 
enticing  speech  to  Corinth,  but  he  came 
with  the  power  of  God. 

I  desire  to  draw  your  attention  to  this 
fact,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  that 
has  also  been  the  history  of  this  dis- 
pensation in  which  we  are  called  upon 
to  take  part.  Joseph  Smith,  the  Pro- 
phet, was  a  farmer,  unlearned,  like 
the  disciples  of  old,  but  in  the  power  of 
God  in  the  strength  of  his  Master,  and 
that  was  the  secret  bf  his  success  and 
the  influence  he  had  over  his  fellow 
men.  We  find  that  after  he  passed  away 
the  Church  grew,  and  another  was  ap- 
pointed in  his  stead  as  President  of  this 
Church.  Now  come  some  of  our  friends 
from  the  outside  and  say,  he  had  fallen 
away,  he  was  rejected,  Brigham  Young 
was  not  the  inspired  man  that  Joseph 
Smith  had  been. 
Let  us  not  enter  into  a  long  discus- 


sion, but  let  us  see  what  it  was  that 
Brigham  Young  accomplished  in  the 
world,  as  compared  with  the  great  work 
commenced  by  the  Prophet  Joseph.  Jo- 
seph was  a  mightv  man,  and  was  the 
means  of  seeding  tha  Gospel  to  some 
sections  of  the  United  States,  to  Cana- 
da and  also  to  Great  Britain;  and  in  his 
day,  also,  the  first  foreign  mission  was 
opened,  that  is  to  a  people  who  speak 
other  than  the  English  language.  It 
was  left  for  the  days  of  Brigham  Young 
to  demonstrate  the  great  powers  of  the 
Church   in   a  missionary  way.  Very 
soon  after  President  Brigham  Young 
came  to  the  front,  the  gospel  as  re- 
vealed to  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  not 
confined  to  the  Anglo-Saxon  race  of 
people  who  speak  the  English  language 
on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic  ocean,  but 
was  sent  over  to  continental  Europe, 
and  there  for  the  first  time  it  was  heard 
among  the  people  dwelling  in  that  land. 
It  is  an  easy  matter  for  us  to  under- 
stand that  to  preach  the  gospel  to  a 
foreign  nation,  or  people  who  speak  for- 
eign  languages,    is   not   a   very  easy 
task.   Sometimes  we  think  the  mission* 
aries  who  are   called  to  the  various 
parts  of  this  country  or  Great  Britain 
have  an  easy  time  as  compared  with 
those  who  go  abroad  and  have  to  learn 
new  languages.    Some  of  us  who  have 
passed  through  it  know  what  it  means 
to  acquire  a  knowledge  of  a  new  lan- 
guage and  speak  to  people  in  a  for- 
eign tongue.    In  foreign  countries  they 
have  little  knowledge  of  our  country 
and  its  institutions,  and  do  not  love 
the  flag  and  the  institutions  of  this 
country  as  we  do.  And  when  these  mes- 
sengers went  from  this  country  and 
testified  of  angels  having  visited  the 
earth,  and    of    God's  revealing  Him- 
self and    sending   His    Son    to  teach 
the       children       of       men,  they 
found      that     men       were  inclined 
to    say,    "That    is    American  hum- 
bug just    like  the  rest  we  have  heard 
coming  from  America!"  It  was  no  easy 
task  for  the  first  Elders  who  went  to 
France,  who  went  to  Italy,  and  who 
went  to  the  Scandinavian  countries,  to 
make  those  people  believe  that  there 
was  anything  real  in  the  message  they 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


had  come  across  the  water  to  bring  to 
the  people.  Let  me  tell  you  now,  if 
those  men  had  gone  forth  as  ordinary 
men  do,  if  they  had  not  been  backed  by 
the  spirit  of  inspiration,  the  Spirit  of 
God,  they  never  could  have  opened  the 
doors  in  those  lands.  The  people  would 
not  have  received  them,  but  would  have 
rejected  their  testimony,  because  it  was 
so  contrary  to  anything  they  had  been 
led  to  expect  or  believe.  But  the  fact 
is  that  these  men  went  abroad  with  a 
double  power.  The  facts  are  that  the 
Lord  did  not  reject  His  Church,  or 
withdraw  His  power,  but  He  increased 
His  power.  In  the  days  of  Brigham 
Young  the  Gospel  was  sent  abroad  not 
only  to  English  speaking  people,  but 
to  people  who  speak  many  other  dif- 
ferent languages,  and  the  blessings  of 
the  Gospel  followed  in  those  lands,  just 
on  the  same  principle  as  they  followed 
in  Tennessee  or  in  Kentucky  or  in  New 
York  or  Boston,  or  any  place  where 
the  first  Elders  of  the  Church  preach- 
ed the  Gospel.  And  this  is  a  great  tes- 
timony to  us  if  we  reflect  upon  it. 

Just  a  word  in  regard  to  the  opposi- 
tion. You  will  remember  that  when 
the  first  Church,  the  Church  establish- 
ed by  Christ  and  His  Apostles,  that 
when  men  went  into  unbelief  and  the 
people  ceased  to  keep  the  command- 
ments, the  Lord  withdrew  His  blessings 
from  that  Church,  and  the  first  excuse 
they  had  to  make  was  something  to 
satisfy  the  people  as  to  why  the  gifts 
and  blessings  of  the  Gospel  had  ceas- 
ed. There  was  no  such  outpouring  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  upon  men  in  the  sec- 
ond century  as  in  the  first.  And  so  they 
invented  this  story  for  the  purpose  of 
pacifying  the  people:  These  things, 
the  gifts  and  blessings  of  the  Gospel, 
have  ceased  because  they  are  no  longer 
necessary.  V,ery  much  flatter,  when 
such  men  as  John  Wesley  glanced  out 
upon  the  past,  he  said,  that  is  not  the 
reason.  There  is  another  reason,  it 
was,  he  said,  because  Christians  had 
turned  heathen  again,  that  is  the  true 
reason  why  the  blessings  and  gifts  of 
the  Gospel  ceased  among  the  children 
of  men.  Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
if  the  true  church  of  Christ  in  this  age 


had  been  rejected  of  God,  the  first  thing 
we  would  have  had  to  find  an  excuse 
for  would  be  why  the  blessings  and 
gifts  of  the  Gospel  had  ceased,  why 
there  was  no  demonstration  of  the  pow- 
er of  God  as  there  was  in  the  beginning. 
The  fact  that  these  things  have  contin- 
ued in  the  Church,  the  fact  that  they 
have  increased  in  the  Church,  the  fact 
that  there  have  been  abundant  wit- 
nesses raised  up  in  this  land  as  well 
as  in  every  land  where  the  Gospel  has 
been  sent,  has  been  and  ought  to  be 
in  and  of  itself  one  of  the  grandest 
proofs  we  can  have  in  regard  to  the  di- 
vinity of  this  church  and  the  perpetu- 
ity of  it. 

I  feel  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the 
inspiration  of  these  men.  I  know  that 
God  is  with  this  people,  and  that  the 
power  of  God  is  with  His  servants,  not 
only  as  we  see  it  demonstrated  here  at 
this  conference,  but  as  we  go  abroad 
in  the  different  missions.  We  have 
heard  from  one  mission  here  today, 
and  we  may  hear  from  more.  We 
will  find  that  the  testimony  of  the  truth 
has  followed,  that  wherever  the  Elders 
go  the  power  of  God  is  with  them. 
They  may  not  be  learned  men,  that  is, 
there  are  not  so  many  that  are  learned 
among  our  people  as  among  some  oth- 
er people,  but  the  power  of  God  is  with 
them,  the  demonstration  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  goes  with  them  wherever  they 
go,  and  paves  the  way  before  them,  and 
causes  them  to  have  success  in  regard 
to  making  converts. 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  I  know  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  it  is 
now  existing  in  the  midst  of  the  earth, 
is  directed  by  the  power  of  God,  and 
that  the  Lord  has  not  ceased  to  strive 
with  His  people,  that  the  Lord  does  nof 
withhold  His  power  or  His  gifts  or  His 
blessings  from  those  who  desire  to  keep 
His  commandments  and  who  walk  in 
the  paths  of  righteousness.  So  far  as 
our  leaders  are  concerned,  I  wish  we 
could  sustain'  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
not  only  as  Trustee-in-Trust  in  a  gen- 
eral way,  but  I  wish  from  the  bottom 
of  my  heart  that  we  could  sustain  him 
also  as  President  of  the  United  Order. 


ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 


69 


that  he  should  direct  among  this  peo- 
ple more  of  the  material  things  that 
we  need  in  the  world.  I  think  that  it  is 
proper  and  right  that  we  should  Jmild 
up  Zion.  temporally  as  well  as  spiritu- 
ally. We  find  sometimes  that  our  mis- 
sionaries, when  they  return  from 
abroad  and  our  emigrants  when  they 
come  to  us  from  foreign  lands,  cannot 
find  employment  when  they  come  to 
Zion.  We  feel  as  if  we  are  not  strong 
enough  financially.  We  are  here  to 
build  up  a  sample  community,  a  com- 
monwealth that  partakes  of  a  tem- 
poral as  well  as  spiritual  nature.  In 
these  mountains  we  have  been  permit- 
ted to  dwell  in  peace  for  a  number  of 
years,  and  it  is  the  only  place,  up  to 
that  time,  upon  God's  footstool  where 
the  Latter-day  Saints  have  ever  found 
a  resting  place.  And  I  will  say,  if  we 
have  confidence  in  our  leaders,  if  there 
is  an  accusation  against  them  as  to 
temporal  affairs,  I  would  prefer  that 
our  fiancial  affairs  be  directed  by  them 
even  more  than  they  are  at  the  present 
time,  that  we  might  prosper  in  tempor- 
al as  well  as  in  spiritual  matters,  that 
Zion  may  grow  and  prosper,  that  we 
may  be  a  community  that  will  be  re- 
spected in  all  parts  of  the  world.  May 
God  bless  you,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 
{President  of  Southern  States  Mission.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  not 
intended  that  this  Church  shall  be 
merely  one  of  a  Gospel  of  spiritual  sal- 
vation, but  it  is  intended  that  it  shall 
be  the  Gospel  of  temporal  salvation 
as  well.  It  is  the  duty  of  the  Mel- 
chisedek  Priesthood  to  look  after  the 
spiritual  affairs  of  this  Church,  and 
it  is  the  duty  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
of  this  Church  to  look  after  the  tem- 
poral affairs;  and  I  hope  the  day  will 
never  come  when  this  people  will  ob- 
ject to  the  Church  dealing  in  temporal 
affairs.  Just  the  moment  that  spirit 
takes  possession  of  you,  then  you  are 
in  a  very  bad  position.  Just  as  soon 
as  an  individual  finds  fault,  and  begins 
to  fight  against  the  authorities  of  this 
Church,   then  he  is  on  the  road  to 


apostasy,  and  he  had  better  turn 
around  and  retrace  his  steps,  or  that 
disease  will  take  hold  of  him,  sooner 
or  later.  You  know  sometimes  it  takes 
a  long  while  for  an  individual  to  apos- 
tatize. He  travels  on  that  train  day 
and  night,  sometimes  for  years,  until 
he  finally  lands  at  the  station.  I 
heard  an  individual  say  in  this  city 
that  he  had  been  an  apostate  for  15 
years  before  he  knew  it. 

The  future  would  look  very  black  to 
me  if  I  did  not  have  a  knowledge  that 
what  the  world  calls  "Mormonism"  is 
indeed  God's  divine  truth;  that  when 
it  was  set  up  upon  the  earth,  it  was 
with  a  promise  from  the  Almighty 
that  it  never  more  would  be  thrown 
down.  If  you  will  examine  the  word- 
ing of  the  Prophet  Daniel,  you  will  see 
it  intimated  there  that  the  work  of 
the  Lord  has  been  upon  the  earth  many 
times  and  been  thrown  down,  and  the 
Lord  knew  that  it  would  be  thrown 
down.  But,  in  interpreting  that  dream 
of  Nebuchadnezzar's,  Daniel  said  that 
the  little  stone  that  the  king  saw  cut 
out  of  the  mountain  without  hands, 
represented  the  kingdom  that  God  was 
going  to  set  up  upon  the  earth  in  the 
latter-days,  never  more  to  be  thrown 
down  or  given  to  another  people.  Just 
as  he  saw  that  little  stone  grow  and 
increase  in  strength  and  size  until  it 
became  a  great  mountain  and  filled  the 
whole  earth,  so  it  was  the  intention 
that  the  kingdom  organized  by  the 
Great  God  in  the  last  days  would  never 
grow  less,  but  would  continue  to  grow 
larger  until  it  filled  the  whole  earth 
with  the  righteousness  of  God. 

I  know  there  are  individuals  who 
claim  that  it  was  thrown  down,  became 
disorganized,,  and  the  little  stone 
crumbled,  went  into  decay,  for  about 
16  years.  When  an  individual  makes  a 
statement  of  that  kind,  he  verily  says 
that  God  Almighty  has  been  defeated 
by  the  Devil,  that  His  words  were  not 
true,  that  when  it  came  upon  the  earth 
in  the  last  days  it  would  stand  forever 
but  that  the  Almighty  has  been  defeat- 
ed by  the  adversary. 

We  have  a  Temple  here,  and  I  was 
thinking,  when  Brother  Goddard  was 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


speaking,  do  we  as  a  people  firmly  be- 
lieve in  all  that  that  Temple  stands  for, 
the  work  for  which  it  is  designed?  If 
I  could  make  my  voice  reach  every 
wealthy  man  there  is  in  the  Church,  I 
would  say  to  them,  do  you  believe  that 
the  work  can  be  done  in  that  house  for 
which  it  was  built,  for  the  dead?  Do 
you  believe  that  on  the  other  side  of 
the  veil  missionaries  are  preaching  the 
Gcspel  to  the  spirits  in  prison,  and  that 
a  work  must  be  done  for  them  here, 
that  the  living  must  do  vicarious  wor*K 
for  the  dead?  You  endow  colleges,  and 
different  institutions,  but  I  would  like 
to  see  some  of  the  wealthy  men  of  this 
Church  endow  that  Temple  with  a  por  - 
tion of  the  means  God  has  given  to 
them,  that  when  they  stand  on  the 
other  side  of  the  veil,  and  enter  the 
missionary  fields  in  the  spirit  world, 
they  can  say  they  were  not  stingy  with 
the  means  the  Almighty  had  given  to 
them,  but  that  a  portion  of  it  had  been 
left  to  furnish  food  for  those  who  of- 
ficiate in  the  Temple,  doing  work  for 
the  dead  who  are  on  the  other  side.  I 
don't  know  that  I  have  read  the  will 
of  a  single  rich  man  yet  who  has 
thought  of  that,  but  I  believe  he  has 
not  been  in  the  spirit  world  15  minutes 
before  he  would  see  the  necessity  of  it, 
and  he  would  feel  like  saying,  "O  God, 
let  me  go  back  a  few  hours  to  earth 
again,  let  me  go  back  and  tell  my 
brethren  of  the  necessity  for  leaving 
some  of  these  means,  that  food  may 
be  provided  for  those  who  must  labor 
all  one  day  to  do  the  Temple  work  for 
one  individual  in  the  spirit  world."  T 
believe  if  a  wealthy  man  went  into  the 
spirit  world  after  following  this  ad- 
vice, he  would  meet  with  hearty  hand- 
shakes from  those  in  the  other  world, 
because  he  had  made  it  possible  that  a 
work  might  be  done  in  the  Temp'e, 
thjfit  the  dead  might  be  robed  with  the 
powers  of  the  Priesthood  on  the  other 
side  of  the  veil,  and  clothed  with  the 
authority  that  has  been  given  and  be- 
stowed upon  those  who  received  the 
truth  while  upon  the  earth. 

I  may  be  very  pronounced  in  thesj 
matters,  but  I  know  that  it  is  right, 
there  is  no  question  about  it.    If  you 


give  all  that  you  have  to  the  Church, 
and  all  that  you  ever  expect  to  have 
in  this  world,  and  leave  it  for  work 
for  the  dead  in  the  Temple,  you  would 
still  be  in  debt  to  the  Church,  for  what 
the  Church  has  done  for  you.  I  feel 
that  I  can  never  pay  the  debt  of  grati- 
tude I  owe  the  Church  for  what  it  has 
done  for  me. 

When  I  was  listening  to  Brother  Mc- 
Rae  speaking  of  the  necessity  for  more 
workers  in  the  missionary  field,  I 
wished  that  every  one  of  you  was  called 
upon  a  mission.  We  need  you.  I 
want  you  to  listen  to  a  few  statistics.  A 
few  years  ago,  in  the  Southern  States, 
we  had  560  missionaries.  In  the  state 
of  Kentucky  alone  we  had  117,  now  we 
have  only  seven  pairs  of  Elders  in  three 
conferences  of  that  state  today  to  keep 
alive  the  seed  that  was  planted  by  the 
117  Elders.  In  the  great  state  of  Ten- 
nessee we  have  eleven  pairs  of  Elders. 
In  the  state  of  Florida  we  have  eight 
pairs.  In  the  state  of  Gorgia  we  have 
ten  pairs, and  in  the  state  of  Mississippi 
we  have  six  pairs.  In  the  state  of 
North  Carolina  we  have  eight  pairs. 
Ohio,  with  six  millions  of  people,  has 
only  five  pairs  of  Elders.  And  that 
is  the  way  it  goes.  We  could  place  all 
the  Elders  that  we  have  in  the  South- 
ern States  in  any  one  state  in  that 
mission.  We  have  got  8,600  Saints  in 
that  mission,  and  on  account  of  not 
having  Elders  enough  to  Visit  them 
when  they  move,  and  find  their  where- 
abouts,we  have  lost  track  of  about  1,500 
or  2,000  of  them.  Once  in  a  while  let- 
ters come  from  some  of  them,  saying 
they  have  not  seen  an  Elder  for  15  to 
18  months.  And  now  I  want  to  say, 
God  will  hold  you  responsible  if  you  do 
not  magnify  the  Priesthood,  and  make 
yourself  an  ecclesiastical  warrior  to  go 
into  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel  of 
Christ  wherever  you  have  an  oppor- 
tunity. 

We  have  many  things  to  contend  with 
in  the  missionary  field.  Our  Elders 
ure  met  upon  the  right  hand  and  upon 
the  left  by  all  kinds  of  arguments.  A 
great  deal  has  been  said  about  those 
who  oppose  us  in  the  so-called  re-or- 
ganized church.     There  are    Elders  of 


ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 


71 


that  church  in  the  world  today  claiming 
they  are  not  antagonistic  to  any  de- 
nomination in  the  United  States  except- 
ing the  Utah  Mormons.  They  want 
to  be  in  harmony  with  the  rest  of  the 
world.  They  follow  in  the  footsteps 
of  our  Elders,  and,  when  they  cease 
speaking,  these  representatives  of  the 
apostate  organization  will  stand  up  and 
say  to  the  people,  "These  men  are  Brig- 
hamites;  no  doubt  they  all  have  got 
more  wives  than  one;  they  are  repre- 
sentatives of  the  organization  that  was 
responsible  for  the  Mountain  Meadow 
Massacre,  and  they  believe  in  blood- 
atonement."  That  is  the  kind  of  doc- 
trines they  lay  before  the  people  of  the 
world,  following  our  missionaries.  That 
is  the  kind  of  sentiments  that  prevail 
in  their  breasts.  Then  they  come  to 
one  who  has  just  been  baptized,  and 
say,  "Do  you  know,  brother,  do  you 
know,  sister,  what  takes  place  there  in 
Utah.  If  any  tithing  is  paid,  it  goes 
for  the  support  of  these  men  who  are 
living  in  abomination,  and  whisky  is 
carried  into  their  houses  by  the  bucket- 
full."  That  is  the  kind  of  argument. 
If  any  of  the  Elders  of  the  Reorganized 
church  don't  believe  this  statement,  I 
can  back  it  up  with  evidence;  and  if 
they  do  not  resent  it,  then  they  are  re- 
sponsible. 

I  know  I  am  looked  upon  as  very 
radical.  In  fact,  it  is  said  that  brother 
Golden  Kimball  and  myself  swear  once 
in  a  while.  I  .think  that  if  J esus  would 
come  here  He  would  express  His 
opinion  of  some  people  in  almost  similar 
language  to  that  used  sometimes  by 
Brother  Golden  Kimball. 

Once  Israel  was  united,  and  then  God 
delivered  the  law  to  Moses.  But  the 
time  came  when  their  Prophets  went  to 
sleep,  and  the  people  became  disunited, 
Eventually  they  severed  asunder,  under 
the  headings  of  Pharisees,  Sadducees, 
and  Essenes.  Then  Jesus  came  with 
a  revelation  from  God  to  them,  and 
offered  them  the  Gospel  fruit,  and 
prayed  that  they  might  be  one  even  as 
the  Father  and  He  were  one.  After  a 
little  while  the  early  Christian  band 
allowed  their  Prophets  to  go  to  sleep, 
and  down  in  the  ages  they  became  sev- 
erd  and  eventually     were     known  as 


Methodists,  Presbyterians,  Episcopal- 
ians, Catholics,  and  the  Lord  only 
knows  what  else.  Then,  in  the  nine- 
teenth century,  God  once  more  gave 
light  from  heaven.  Once  more  the 
Gospel  fruit  was  offered  to  mankind. 
Again  it  was  opposed  by  the  leaders  of 
religious  organizations,  as  it  was  op- 
posed by  the  leaders  of  other  religious 
organizations  when  Jesus  brought  it 
first. 

Now  then  if  you  will  not  consider 
Jesus  too  radical  and  too  harsh,  I  will 
read  to  you  what  He  said  about  this 
when  He  was  here;  then  you  have  got 
my  opinion  of  just  wThat  He  would  say 
if  He  came  to  the  earth  again.  Here 
it  is  in  the  23rd  chapter  of  Matthew: 

"Then  spake  Jesus  to  the  multitude 
and  to  His  disciples,  saying:  Thp 
Scribes  and  the  Pharisees  sit  in  Moses' 
seat;  all,  therefore,  whatsoever  they  bid 
you  observe,  that  observe  and  do.but  do 
not  yet  after  their  works,  for  they  say 
and  do  not.  For  they  bind  heavy  bur- 
dens and  grievous  to  be  borne,  and  lay 
them  on  men's  shoulders;  but  they 
themselves  will  not  move  them  with 
one  of  their  nngers.  But  all  their  works 
they  do  for  to  be  seen  of  men;  they 
make  broad  their  phylacteries,  and  en- 
large the  borders  of  their  garments, 
and  love  the  uppermost  rooms  at  feasts 
arid  the  chief  seats  in  the  synagogues, 
and  greetings  in  the  markets,  and  to 
be  called  of  men.  Rabbi,  Rabbi.  But  be 
ye  not  called  Rabbi,  for  one  is  your 
master,  even  Christ;  and  all  ye  are 
brethren.  .  .  .  But  woe  unto  you, 
scribes  and  Pharasees,  hypocrites,  for 
ye  shut  up  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
against  men;  for  ye  neither  go  in  your- 
selves, neither  suffer  ye  them  that  are 
entering  to  go  in.  Woe  unto  you. 
scribes  and  Pharisees,  hypocrites,  for 
ye  devour  widows'  houses,  and  for  a 
pretence  make  long  prayer;  therefore 
ye  shall  receive  the  greater  damna- 
tion. Wo  unto  you,  scribes  and  Phari- 
sees, hypocrites,  for  ye  compass  sea  and 
h  n  '  t"  maKe  onp  proseiyte,  anl  when 
he  is  made  ye  make  him  two-fold  more 
the  child  of  hell  than  yourselves.  Woe 
unto  you,  ye  blind  guides  which  say, 
whosoever  shall  swear  by  the  temple,  it 
is  nothing:  but  whosoever  shal  swear 
by  the  gold  of  the  temple,  he  is  a  debt- 
or Ye  fools  and  blind,  for  whether  is 
greater,  the  gold  or  the  temple  that 
•sanctifieth  the  gold?  And  whosoever 
shall  swear  bv  thte  altar  it  is  nothing 
but  whosoever  shall  swear  by  the  gift 
that  is  upon  it  he  is  guilty.  Te  fools 
and  blind  for  whether  is  greater,  the 
gift  or  the  altar  that  sanctifieth  the 


CONFERENCE. 


72  GENERAL 

gift?  Whosoever  therefore  shall  swear 
by  the  altar,  sweareth  by  it  and  by  all 
things  thereon,  and  whosoever  shaft 
swear  by  the  temple,  sweareth  by  it  ami 
by  him  that  dwelleth  therein.  And  lie 
that  shall  swear  by  heaven  sweareth  by 
|the  throne  of  God,  and  by  him  that 
sitteth  thereon.  Woe  unto  you,  scribes 
and  Pharisees,  hypocritss,  for  ye  pay 
tithe  of  mint  and  anise  and  Cumm.m, 
and  have  omitted  the  weightier  matters 
of  the  law,  judgment,  mercy  and  faith; 
these  ought  ye  to  have  done,  and  not 
to  leave .  the  other  undone.  Ye  blind 
guides  which  strain  at  a  gnat  and  swal- 
low a  camel.  Woe  unto  ye,  scribes  and 
■Pharlf-hes,  hypocrites,  'for  ye  make 
clean  the  outside  of  the  cup  and  of  the 
platter,  but  within  they  are  full  of  ex- 
tortion and  excess.  Thou  blind  Phari- 
see, cleanse  first  that  which  is  within 
the  cup  and  platter,  that  the  outside  of 
them  may  be  clean  also.  Woe  unto  you, 
scribes  and  Pharisees,  hypocrites,  for 
ye  are  like  unto  whited  sepulchres, 
which  indeed  appear  beautiful  outward; 
but  are  within  full  of  dead  men's  bones 
and  of  all  uncleanness.  Even  so  ye 
also  outwardly  appear  righteous  unto 
men,  but  within  ye  are  full  of  hypoc- 
risy and  iniouity.  Woe  unto  you, 
scribes  and  Pharisees,  hypocrites,  be- 
cause ye  build  the  tombs  of  the  proph- 
ets and  garnish  the  sepulchres  of  th'S 
righteous,  and  say,  if  we  had,  been  in 
the  days  of  our  fathers,  we  would  not 
have  been  partakers  with  them  in  the1 
blood  of  the  pronhets.  Wherefore  y>A 
be  witnesses  unto  yourselves  that  ye 
are  the  children  of  th^m  which  kille  d 
the  pronhets.  Pill  ye  up  then  the  measure 
of  your  fathers.  Te  serpents,  ye  gen  ■ 
eration  of  vipers,  how  can  ye  escape 
the  damnation  of  hell?  Wherefore,  be- 
hold I  send  unto  you  prophets,  and 
wise  men,  and  scribes;  and  some  of 
them  ye  shall  scourge  in  your  syna- 
gogues and  persecute  them  from  city 
to  city,  that  upon  you  may  come  all 
the  righteous  blood  shed  upon  the  earth 
from  the  blood  of  righteous  Abel  unto 
the  bloo'l  of  Z^charias  son  of  "Rar^chias. 
v-hom  vp  «*lew  between  the  temple  and 
the  altar." 

Now  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  among  those  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  the  churches  ofi 
the  world  there  are  many  good,  kind, 
conscientious  gentlemen:  but  I  will  say 
further,  that  I  firmly  believe  that  those 
who  lead  the  tirade  of  abuse  against 
this  people,  and  still  occupy  prominent 
seats  in  modern  synagogues,  are  of  the 
same  class  spoken  of  by  Jesus  of  Naz- 
areth; and  if  He  were  to  come  back 
again  and  speak  to  a  congregation  He 
would  deliver  the  same  sermon  He  de- 
livered when  He  was  here  before. 


If  you  don't  know  that  this  work 
comes  from  God,  ask,  and  the  informa- 
tion will  be  given  you.  Ask  in  faith, 
and  then  you  will  know.  I  testify, 
that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has 
been  restored  to  the  earth,  in  fulfill- 
ment of  prophecy,  and  I  testify  to  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn,  "How  firm  a  foundation,"  etc. 

Benediction  by  Elder  William  Budge. 

SECOND    OVBVRFLOW  MEETING. 

In  the  Assembly  Hall  at  2  p.  m. 

Elder  Rudger  Clawson  presiding. 

The  Temple  choir,  and  congregation, 
sang  the  hymn-,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

Elder  Samuel  A.  Woolley  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Love 
Everlasting." 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  BASSETT. 

(President  of  Fremont  Stake.) 
My  heart  is  filled  with  joy,  my  dear 
brethren  and  sisters,  at  witnessing  the 
wonderful  success,  the  very  large  at- 
tendance and  the  moat  excellent  spirit 
that  has  prevailed  at  this  conference. 
Never,  in  my  experience  in  this  church, 
have  I  felt  that  the  subjects  treated 
upon  have  been  more  timely  than  they 
have  been  at  the  meetings  of  this  con- 
ference. Seeing  the  very  large  attend- 
ance assures  me  forcibly  that  the  evil 
speaking  and  comments  derogatory  to 
the  character  of  our  leaders,  that  are 
being  indulged  in  by  our  opponents,  are 
beneficial,  bringing  this  people  together, 
and  demonstrating  to  the  whole  world 
that  we  are  true  to  each  other.  We  do 
not  fully  realize  the  love  and  affec- 
tion that  is  down  deep  in  the  hearts  of 
this  people,  toward  each  other  and  to- 
ward our  leaders,  until  we  are  attacked. 
Then  are  manifested  those  ties  of  affec- 
tion and  love  that  bind  our  hearts  to- 
gether, and  make  us  one  in  Christ 
Jesus,  more  than  family  ties.  I  thank 
my  Heavenly  Father  for  this  feeling 
that  we  have  in  our  hearts  toward  each 
other  and  toward  our  leaders,  the  kind 
and  generous  feeling  that  we  enjoy 
when  we  are  in  the  discharge  of  our  du- 
ties. I  appreciate  that  as  much  as  any 
other  blessing  I  have  ever  enjoyed. 
There  is  no  joy  that  can  come  to  the 
human  heart,  there  is  no  blessing  that 
is  more  appreciated,  no  feeling  more 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  BASSETT. 


73 


pleasant  than  the  love  that  character- 
izes every  true  Latter-day  Saint.  Our 
Savior  said  that  the  first  great  com- 
mandment was,  "Thou  shalt  love  the 
Lord,  thy  God,  with  all  thy  heart,  with 
all  they  might,  mind  and  strength;  and 
the  second  commandment  is  like  unto 
it.  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself.  Upon  these  two  great  com- 
mandments hang  all  the  law  and  the 
prophets."  I  have  often  been  impress- 
ed with  the  fact  that  it  would  be  ex- 
tremely easy  for  us  to  perform  every 
duty  that  is  required  of  us,  as  Latter- 
day  Saints,  if  we  really  possessed  that 
love  to  the  extent  that  we  should.  Of 
all  the  'duties  of  the  Gospel,  all  the  re- 
quirements that  are  made  of  us,  wheth- 
er it  be  to  contribute  our  mites  for  the 
support  of  the  poor,  for  the  erection 
of  meetinghouses,  or  institutions  of 
learning  for  our  young  people,  for  the 
sending  of  missionaries  abroad  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel, or  whether  it  be  the  sacrifice  of 
our  homes  and  all  that  we  possess  on 
earth — all  these  things  would  be  cheer- 
fully given  did  we  but  love  the  Lord, 
our  God,  with  all  our  mind,  might  and 
strength  and  our  neighbor  as  ourselves. 
There  would  be  little  need  of  admonish- 
ing the  people  to  attend  to  their  pray- 
ers; and  little  need  of  admonishing 
them  to  pay  their  tithes  and  offerings, 
and  attend  their  meetings  and  to  do 
other  things  that  are  incumbent  upon 
Latter-day  Saints. 

The  burden  of  the  instructions  during 
this  conference  has  been  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  to  banish  from  our 
hearts  all  feelings  of  animosity,  bitter- 
ness, hate  and  enmity  that  we  may  en- 
tertain toward  any  one.  If  we  do  not 
forgive  our  brother  his  trespasses 
there  remains  in  us  the  greater  sin. 
The  object  of  the  Gospel  is  to  build 
up,  to  benefit,  to  strengthen  and  to 
bless  and  comfort  the  human  family. 
That  is  our  mission,  we  are  here  to  do 
good,  we  are  here  to  build  up,  we  are 
here  to  extend  a  helping  hand  to  any 
brother  or  sister  who  is  oppressed,  to 
reach  out  the  hand  of  kindness  to  each 
other,  to  be  forgiving. 

"We  are  all  full  of  weaknesses,  faults 
of  mortality,  there  are  none  of  us  that 


are  perfect.  There  is  not  one  within 
the  sound  of  my  voice  this  afternoon 
that  has  not  transgressed  to  a  greater 
or  less  extent  during  his  life.  When  we 
are  inclined  to  find  fault  with  our 
brother  or  sister,  let  us  investigate  our 
own  soul  and  it  is  probable  we  will  then 
find  more  fault  with  ourselves  than  we 
can  with  our  brethren  and  sisters. 

Another  admonition  of  the  prophet  of 
the  Lord  to  this  people  for  several  years 
has  been  to  get  out  of  debt.  These  two 
points,  as  they  have  impressed  me  dur- 
ing this  conference,  have  been  suffi- 
cient to  repay  me  for  the  time  and 
means  I  have  spent  in  coming  some- 
thing more  than  200  miles  to  attend  this 
conference.  I  sincerely  hope  that  these 
two  great  principles,  the  importance  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  loving  each  oth- 
er, being  true  to  each  other,  standing 
(shoulder  to  shoulder,  extending  the 
hand  of  kindness  to  each  other,  and 
the  other  great  principle  that  has  been 
advocated,  to  get  out  of  debt — I  sincere- 
ly trust  that  these  two  great  topics, 
may  burn  down  deep  into  the  heart  of 
every  person  who  has  attended  this 
conference. 

It  was  a  source  of  regret  to  listen  to 
the  statement  of  one  of  our  brethren 
yesterday  who  rather  questioned  wheth- 
er the  Latter-day  Saints  were  any  more 
out  of  debt  today  than  they  were  when 
the  Prophet  Joseph  F.  Smith  gave  this 
counsel  two  or  three  years  ago.  If  we 
have  not  profited  by  this  admonition, 
the  responsibility  rests  upon  our  shoul- 
ders, for  it  has  certainly  come  to  us  in 
no  unmistakable  terms,  as  being  the 
mind  and  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 
If  we  continue  to  remain  in  that  con- 
dition, without  lifting  the  obligations 
that  are  resting  upon  our  shoulders, 
we  t  shall  have  to  stand  the  conse- 
quences. The  day  may  come  that  the 
people  will  be  urgently  required  to  pay 
their  obligations  to  those  that  they  are 
in  debt  to,  and  perhaps  have  their 
hemes  and  farms  sold  in  consequence. 
It  would  be  a  fearful  thing,  brothers 
and  sisters,  to  contemplate  that,  in 
the  face  of  this  good  and  wholesome 
counsel  coming  from  men  whom  we 
revere  as  inspired  of  our  Heavenly 
Father. 


74 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


I  hope  that  we  will  feel  the  import- 
ance of  this,  my  brothers  and  sisters. 
Latter-day  Saints  should  not  be  ob- 
ligated to  the  people  of  the  world.  Our 
Heavenly  Father  has  said  to  Israel 
that  they  should  be  lenders  and  not 
borrowers.  Every  good  and  perfect 
blessing  that  can  come  to  mortal  man 
is  the  right  of  every  Latter-day  Saint 
to  enjoy.  All  the  wealth  and  riches  of 
this  earth,  and  all  other  blessings  that 
our  Heavenly  Father  has  vouchsafed, 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  entitled  to 
through  faithfulness.  I  do  not  know  of 
any  greater  trouble  or  vexation  that 
can  come  to  the  human  heart  than  to 
be  burdened  with  a  load  of  debt.  To 
be  thoroughly  miserable  a  man  needs 
only  to  obligate  himself,  to  become  in- 
volved in  debt.  If  we  want  to  bi 
happy  let  us  extricate  ourselves  from 
this  bon.dage.  Let  us  be  a  free  people, 
as  our  Heavenly  Father  has  designed 
that  we  should  be.  He  has  established 
us  here,  in  the  midst  of  these  rocky 
mountains,  for  a  wise  and  glorious 
purpose,  in  fulfilment  of  utterances  of 
the  prophets  made  many  hundreds  of 
years  ago.  He  designs  to  make  us  a 
great  people.  Let  us  be  true  to  each 
other,  and  true  to  our  file  leaders, 
which  I  feel  sure  we  will  be.  We  will 
be  true  to  our  brethren  who  are  called 
to  lead  us.  We  know  they  are  men 
of  God;  we  know  they  are  humble,  and 
that  they  do  not  seek  to  aggrandize 
themselves  at  the  expense  of  their  fel- 
lows, notwithstanding  all  the  hard 
things  that  are  said  against  them  by 
those  who  are  seeking  to  tear  them 
down. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  I  know 
this  is  the  work  of  God;  I  know  that 
our  Heavenly  Father  has  a  watchful 
eye  over  this  people,  and  all  we  need  to 
do  is  to  remain  true  to  the  covenants 
we  have  made  with  Him,  and  He  will 
sustain  us.  May  God  be  with  you,  and 
bless  you.  my  brothers  and  sisters. 
May  love  abound  in  your  homes,  at 
your  firesides,  in  your  gatherings;  may 
the  peace  of  heaven  be  with  us  all,  I 
ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  OLEEN  L.  STOHL, 
(President  of  Boxelder  Stake.) 
My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  most  hum- 
bly desire  that  what  I  shall  say  to  you 
this  afternoon  may  be  directed  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  have  very  much 
rejoiced  in  being  permitted  to  attend 
this  general  conference  of  the  Church; 
and,  beginning  with  the  first  meeting 
and  continuing  to  the  present  time,  I 
have  felt  that  it  was  never  my  privi- 
lege to  attend  a  conference  of  the 
Church,  where  I  experienced  a  greater 
outpouring  of  the  power  of  God  than  I 
have  done  in  this.  We  frequently  hear 
it  stated  by  our  brethren  and 
sisters  who  attend  these  confer- 
ences that  the  last  conference  is  al- 
ways the  best.  I  believe  we  can  testify 
to  that  truthfully,  in  the  case  of  this 
conference;  and  I  believe  further,  thai 
this  is  just  as  it  should  be.  If  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  living  their  re- 
ligion, as  God  has  required  of  us  that 
we  should,  we  will  be  entitled  to  in- 
creased outpourings  of  His  Spirit;  con- 
sequently each  conference  we  attend 
will  appear  to  be  the  best.  I  have 
thought  that  I  never  witnessed  more 
enthusiasm,  nor  did  I  ever  notice  a 
more  hearty  vote  for  the  authorities  of 
our  Church  than  that  which  was  mani- 
fest in  sustaining  them  at  the  confer- 
ence meeting  on  last  Friday  afternoon. 
It  was  gratifying  to  me  to  see  that, 
when  our  file  leaders  are  attacked,  the 
rank  and  file  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  ready  to  resent  those  attacks  by 
showing  to  their  leaders  their  loyal 
support  for  them.  They  also  must  feel- 
gratified  in  seeing  the  loyalty,  and  en- 
thusiasm with  which  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  come  to  this  conference  and 
taken  part  in  its  proceedings.  I  am 
thankful  that  I  can  say  that  I  was  born 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  that  I  was  born  here  in  the 
valleys  of  the  mountains.  Under  tho 
direction  of  my  parents,  it  has  been  my 
privilege  to  attend  the  conferences  and 
meetings  which  have  been  held  in  the 
locality  where  I  have  lived.  I  have  had 
great  interest  in  reflecting  over  my  past 
life,  and  my  experiences  in  connection 
with   this  Church,  and  in  considering 


ELDER  OLEEN  N.  STOHL. 


75 


that  which  I  have  heard  come  from  our 
leaders.  It  was  my  privilege  to  listen 
to  President  Brigham  Young  instruct 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and,  though  I 
was  only  a  boy,  I  remember  very  dis- 
tinctly a  number  of  the  discourses  I 
heard  him  deliver,  and  the  counsel  I 
heard  him  give  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  Since  that  time  I  have  heard 
all  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church,  the 
presidents  of  the  Church,  and  the 
Apostles  that  were  associated  with 
them,  instruct  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  say  to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
that  during  my  entire  lifetime  and  ex- 
perience-, I  never  heard  one  of  those 
brethren  enunciate  a  doctrine  unto  the 
people,  that  was  in  any  degree  degrad- 
ing, or  that,  in  any  respect,  would  tend 
to  lower  the  manhood  or  womanhood  of 
any  son  or  daughter  of  God.  On  the 
other  hand,  I  testify  to  you,  sincerely, 
that  everything  I  have  heard  them 
teach,  the  principles  they  have  brought 
before  the  people,  the  counsels  they 
have  given,  have  been  of  a  nature  to 
uplift  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God, 
if  they  would  live  in  accordance  with 
them.  I  feel  to  say,  thank  God  for  the 
men  who  have  stood  at  the  head  of  this 
Church,  for  the  leaders  whom  He  has 
raised  up  to  direct  this  people*.  I 
do  not  know  that  there  is  any  greater 
evidence  of  the  divinity  of  their  work 
than  that  which  we  see  at  the  present 
time.  There  never  was  a  time  in  the 
history  of  the  Church  when  it  was 
stronger  than  it  is  today;  and  I  be- 
lieve there  never  was  a  time  in  the 
Church  when  we  experienced  more  of 
the  power  of  God  in  it  than  we  do  to- 
day. 

I  am  pleased  to  say  to  you  that,  in 
the  stake  where  I  have  the  honor  to 
preside.  I  have  never  seen  a  time  when 
the  presidency  and  the  High  Council 
of  that  stake  were  more  united,  or  more 
anxious  to  perform  their  duties  than 
they  are  today,  anxious  to  labor  among 
the  people,  anxious  to  do  their  duty 
and  direct  in  the  affairs  of  that  part 
of  the  Lord's  vineyard.  I  have  been 
well  pleased  in  noticing,  during  the 
recent  month  or  two  ,the  great  inter- 
est manifest  in  the  opening  of  our 
Young   Ladies'    Mutual  Improvement 


associations.  "We  have  never  before 
seen  such  devotedness  and  zeal  mani- 
fest as  we  have  observed  during  the 
opening  of  this  season's  work.  We 
hope  and  expect,  to  see  the  same  earn- 
estness in  relation  to  the  young  men's 
M.  I.  associations  when  they  begin 
their  work,  and  so  also  with  the  quo- 
rums of  the  Priesthood.  Now,  this  all 
shows  to  me  that  there  is  faith  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  they  are  not 
dead,  they  are  not  waning  from  their 
first  love  of  the  Gospel,  but  that  it 
still  burns  in  their  hearts,  and  they  are 
desirous  and  anxious  to  do  all  that  lies 
in  their  power  to  perform  their  duty  in 
building  up  the  kingdom  of  God.  How 
is  it  that  we  occupy  this  position  to- 
day, that  we  are  stronger  than  we 
ever  were  before?  I  bear  my  testimony 
that  it  is  because  God  has  raised  up 
great  and  good  men  as  our  leaders, 
who  have  been  inspired  by  His  Spirit 
to  lead  and  direct  the  Latter-day  Saints 
in  the  way  that  they  should  go,  and 
because  of  our  obedience  to  their  teach- 
ings and  instructions,  we  have  attain- 
ed the  growth  and  strength  that  we 
now  witness  and  enjoy  in  the  Church. 

How  inconsistent  it  is,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  for  our  enemies  to  say  to 
the  body  of  the  Church,  "You  are  all 
right,  you  people  are  all  right;  those 
who  are  wrong  are  the  leaders  of  the 
Church.  It  is  that  body  of  men  we  are 
after,  that  we  desire  to  pull  down,  be- 
cause they  have  transgressed;  but  you 
are  going  in.  the  right  path,  everything 
is  well  with  you;  the  leaders  are  the 
ones  that  have  stepped  to  one  side." 
How  ridiculous  and  inconsistent  it  is 
for  anybody  to  make  that  kind  of 
statement.  We  are  what  we  are  today, 
as  the  body  of  the  Church,  because  we 
have  accepted  the  counsels  and  teach- 
ings of  our  leaders;  and,  if  we  had 
only  lived  closer  to  their  councils  and 
teachings,  as  a  Church,  we  would  have 
been  much  stronger  today  even  than 
we  are.  I  say  to  you  that  if  we  will 
continue  in  the  future  to  abide  by  their 
counsels  we  will  become  a  strong  and 
mighty  people.  I  am  thankful  for  the 
testimony  I  have  in  relation  to  the 
divinity  of  this  work,  and  for  the 
standing  I  have  in  the  Church  of  Christ 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


today;  and  I  feel  that  this  is  some- 
thing every  Latter-day  Saint  must  ap- 
preciate. We  certainly  must  admit 
that  the  Church  has  been  a  great  bless- 
ing to  us  and  that  through  our  al- 
legiance to  that  Church,  and  affilia- 
tion with  it.  we  have  received  many 
great  and  wonderful  blessings.  We 
know  that  those  who  are  living  their 
religion  today  in  this  Church,  and  who 
are  endeavoring  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  are  not  the  dis- 
gruntled ones,  they  are  not  the  ones 
who  are  complaining  about  the  au- 
thorities of  the  Church.  We  find  that 
those  who  are  making  complaints,  and 
expressing  dissatisfaction  are  those 
who  have  not  kept  the  counsels  and 
admonitions  of  God  that  have  come  to 
the  people  through  our  leaders.  Nor 
are  they  the  ones  who  have  lived  in 
accordance  with  the  Gospel  as  it  has 
been  made  known  to  us. 

We  know,  those  of  us  who 
have  obeyed  the  doctrine,  that 
great  blessings  come  to  us  through  obe- 
dience to  the  law  of  tithing.  In  connec- 
tion with  this  I  say  it  is  not  they  who 
pay  their  tithes  who  are  complaining 
today  in  relation  to  the  principle  of 
tithing.  It  is  not  they  who  are  fearful 
as  to  the  handling  of  their  tithing,  of 
as  to  whether  it  is  properly  distributed 
or  not.  You  will  find,  upon  investiga- 
tion, that  those  who  are  finding  fault, 
who  are  making  these  complaints,  are 
those  who  fail  to  pay  their  tithes. 
I  believe  this  principle  is  attacked  be- 
cause our  enemies  think  they  can  have 
more  influence  with  some  of  the  weak 
members  of  the  Church.  They  have 
an  idea  that  if  you  attack  or  touch  the 
pocket  of  a  man,  you  can  appe'al  to 
him  by  virtue  of  that  supposed  fact 
and  may  thus  succeed  in  turning  hint 
away  from  the  church,  and  get  him  to 
refuse  to  lend  his  support.  Those  who 
have  tested  this  principle,  who  have 
proven  this  doctrine,  will  not  be  influ- 
enced by  that  sophistry.  That  kind  of 
argument  will  not  appeal  to  them,  be- 
cause they  have  proven  the  doctrine  for 
themselves;  they  know  that  it  is  true, 
and  that  blessings  are  poured  out  in 
obedience  to  that  principle,  as  God  ha? 
promised  that  they  would  be.  They  arci 
blessed,  not  only  in  a  spiritual  way,  but 


they  are  also  blessed  temporally.  They 
are  satisfied  and  contented,  and  ac- 
knowledge to  their  Father  that  they 
have  been  built  up  spiritually  and  tem- 
porally through  obedience  to  that  law; 
not  only  by  the  observance  of  that  law 
but  every  other  law  pertaining  to  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  we  have  ac- 
cepted it.  If  we  will  thus  prove  the 
doctrine,  brethren  and  sisters,  put  it  to 
the  test,  we  will  never  apostatize  from 
the  Church.  They  who  apostatize  and 
leave  the  Church  are  they  who  have 
failed  to  prove  the  doctrine,  and  who 
have  not  got  faith  in  it.  We  may  in- 
crease our  faith  by  putting  these  prin- 
ciples into  daily  practice,  thus  testing 
them,  and  finding  out  for  ourselves 
whether  they  are  true  or  not.  I  testify 
to  you,  that  my  experience,  short  as  it 
has  been  in  the  Church,  is  this,  that 
whenever  I  have  obeyed  a  principle  of 
the  gospel  and  put  it  to  the  test,  I  have 
never  had  any  doubt  in  my  mind  in  re- 
lation to  the  divinity  of  that  principle. 
These  principles  are  divine,  and  eternal, 
and  if  you  practice  them  in  humility, 
in  accordance  with  the  spirit  of  the 
Gospel,  you  will  have  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  the  work. 

As  I  said  before  I  thank  God  for  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  thank  God  that  I  am  per- 
mitted to  live  in  the  day  and  dispensa- 
tion of  the  world  when  He  raised  up  a 
prophet,  and  when  He  and  His  Son 
came  to  earth,  and  visited  and  did  com- 
mune with  that  boy,  and  counseled  and 
instructed  him,  and  continued  to  in- 
struct him  until  the  result  was  the  com- 
plete organization  of  the  Church.  I 
thank  God  for  this,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  for  the  testimony  I  have 
that  I  know  this  is  the  work  of  God.  Let 
us  progress,  let  us  be  faithful,  upright 
and  God-fearing  in  that  which  we  have 
to  do.  Let  us  serve  the  Lord.  Let  us 
uphold  one  another  and  the  authorities 
who  preside  over  us.  I  feel  that  when 
a  man  attacks  the  President  of  this 
Church  he  attacks  me.  I  feel  that  when 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  is  villified 
and  belittled  by  those  who  are  our  ene- 
mies, I  also  am  attacked  and  belittled, 
and  they  are  trying  to  besmirch  my 
character,  for  the  reason  that  I  am  in- 


ELDER  NEPHI 

strumental,  as  one  of  the  members  of 
the  Church,  in  helping  to  support  and 
sustain  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  in 
his  position.  And  I  feel  that  when  he 
Is  attacked,  it  is  my  duty,  and  it  is 
your  duty— or  when  any  of  his  brethren 
are  attacked,  who  stand  close  to  him— 
it  is  our  duty,  as  supporters,  who  have 
held  up  our  hands  to  sustain  them  in 
positions  they  occupy,  to  lift  up  our 
voices  in  their  defense.  May  the  peace 
and  blessing's  of  heaven  continue  to 
abide  with  us,  as  Latter-day  Saints; 
may  we  have  strength  to  perform  our 
duties;  if  we  will  do  so  there  never 
will  be  a  time  in  the  Church  but  what 
greater  blessings  and  greater  things 
than  we  have  yet  experienced  will  be 
poured  out  upon  us.  And  that  this 
blessing  may  follow  in  our  behalf  I  ask 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "S'peak  to  My  Soul." 

ELDER  NEPHI  L.  MORRIS, 
(President  of  Salt  Lake  Stake.) 

At  the  conclusion  of  each  meeting 
of  this  conference  I  have  felt  in  my 
heart  a  deep  sense  of  gratitude  to  our 
Heavenly  Father  for  the  personal  as- 
surance he  has  given  me  of  His  pres- 
ence with  the  Saints  in  this  great  con- 
ference. I  don't  know  that  the  Church 
ever  saw  more  splendid  exhibitions  of 
unity,  perfect  harmony  of  feeling,  a 
more  magnificent  display  of  priestly  in- 
fluence than  that  which  has  been  ex- 
hibited during  this  conference.  The 
days  of  small  things  are  past.  The 
Kingdom  of  God  shall  not  again  be 
reduced  to  anything  like  its  infancy; 
year  by  year  we  see  it  moving  onward, 
increasing  in  strength  and  power,  in- 
creasing in  intelligence  and  in  the  vir- 
tues of  the  Gospel,  until  it  has  become 
a  light  unto  the  world  placed  upon  a 
hill  top,  and  it  cannot  be  hid.  No 
matter  what  circumstances  may  sur- 
round the  Church,  no  matter  what  at- 
titude the  world  may  maintain  toward 
it,  no  matter  how  devoutly  some  work 
for  its  destruction,  all  the  world  must 
admit  that  "Mormonism"  is  moving 
steadily  onward  in  the  face  of  the  op- 
position of  the  world. 

I  rejoice  in  this  exhibition  of  power 
and  progressiveness,  because  the  work 


L.    MORRIS.  77 

of  God  is  dear  to  me.  and  is,  in  fact, 
the  dearest  thing  I  know.  There  is 
nothing  on  earth  which  has  from  me 
such  reverence,  such  an  abiding  con- 
fidence, as  this  latter-day  work. 

I  can  easily  conceive  of  institutions 
of  'the  earth  going  to  pieces,  of  na-. 
tions  falling,  of  races  being  annihilated 
or  absorbed  by  greater  nations.  But 
it  is  not  within  the  scope  of  my  men- 
taility  to  conceive  of  the  destruction 
and  annihilation  of  the  work  of  God. 
Where  that  conviction  or  that  feeling 
comes  from,  I  leave  you  to  judge. 
Whether  it  be  from  a  steady  growth 
of  faith,  from  tradition  or  parental 
teachings,  I  am  not,  perhaps,  prepared 
to  say  definitely.  But  there  appears 
to  me  to  be  nothing  on  earth  so  strong, 
and  so  abiding,  and  so  certain  of  tri- 
umph as  the  work  of  God.  This  too  in 
the  face  of  all  the  predictions  that  are- 
made  to  the  contrary. 

The  remarks  of  Elder  Stohl  regarding 
the  compliment  which  is  paid  by  our 
friends,  the  enemy,  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  as  a  people,  wherein  they  say, 
"we  have  nothing  against  you  Mormon 
people;  in  fact  you  are  a  very  good 
people;  you  are  industrious,  you  are- 
honorable;  you  are,  indeed,  a  good  peo- 
ple; but  your  leaders  are  bad!"  What 
a  silly  piece  of  sophistry  this  is.  "Your 
leaders  are  bad,  but  you  are  good." 
Do  you  pluck  grapes  from  thistles? 
Where  do  these  leaders  come  from, 
are  they  not  the  fruit  and  the  product 
of  the  people?  When  we  desire  to  in- 
stall one  in  any  quorum  to  preside,  do 
we  go  outside  of  the  Church  to  find 
him?  Invariably  they  are  taken  from 
the  rank  and  file  of  the  priesthood,  from 
the  people,  and  they  are  the  fruit,  the 
outgrowth  of  the  people.  What  gives 
me  great  encouragement  is  that  the 
people  and  the  leaders  are  one,  and 
that  the  people  are  like  the  leaders; 
if  the  leaders  are  corrupt  and  bad,  then 
so  are  the  people.  If  the  people  are 
good,  then  so  are  the  leaders,  they  are 
the  same  kith  and  kin.  The  same  spir- 
it characterizes  them  that  character- 
izes the  people  as  a  whole.  What 
finer  compliment  could  be  paid  to  men 
than  to  say,  that  the  great  body  of  in- 


78 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


dustrious,  honest  people  known  as  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  unlimited  con- 
fidence in  their  leaders?  This  is  the 
compliment  which  the  opposition  pay 
to  the  leaders,  when  they  say  they 
are  bad,  for  the  people,  four  hun- 
dred thousand  strong,  represented 
By  leading  men  from  every  ward  and 
quorum  in  Zion,  assemble  and  lift  their 
hands,  10,000  strong,  to  support  those 
leaders  whom  the  world  say  are  cor- 
rupt. I  wonder  if  as  much  could  be 
said  of  the  leaders  of  the  opposition,  if 
there  are  people  who  have  confidence 
in  them  to  trust  their  tithes,  and  if 
necessary  their  lives,  in  the  hands  of 
those  leaders?  From  my  personal  ac- 
quaintanceship with  some  of  these 
men,  I  doubt  if  anybody  on  earth  has 
confidence  in  them;  I  know  I  have 
not.  I  have  traveled  with  them,  cor- 
responded with  them,  conversed  with 
them,  and  have  had  business  associa- 
tions with  some  of  them  for  years,  but 
I  have  absolutely  no  confidence  in 
them,  and  I  know  whereof  I  speak. 
Among  us  things  are  altogether  dif- 
ferent. It  is  the  most  inconsistent  pro- 
position I  ever  heard  made  that  a  peo- 
ple have  bad  leaders  when  those  lead- 
ers are  taken  from  and  out  of  the  peo- 
ple. Now  to  a  stranger,  and  perhaps 
to  some  of  our  old  members,  these 
compliments  which  we  pay  to  ourselves 
may  be  a  little  offensive.  I  admit  we 
might  go  to  the  extreme  in  defending 
ourselves,  but  we  must  not  forget,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are  put 
on  the  defensive.  The  war  which  is 
waged  against  the  Latter-day  Saints 
compels  them  to  speak  in  their  own 
defense,  or  they  stand  condemned  in 
silence;  and  since  it  is  their  right  to 
speak  no  one  can  object  to  their 
speaking  if  they  wish  to.  We  do  not 
look  upon  our  leaders  as  being  without 
blemish  and  perfect.  We  know  they 
have  weaknesses,  and  for  their  weak- 
nesses we  have  sympathy  and  charity, 
because  like  weaknesses  exist  in  us.  If 
the  leaders  and  the  people  were  perfect 
there  would  be  no  use  for  the  Gospel, 
so  far  as  we  are  concerned,  for  the 
Gospel  is  the  power  of  God  unto  per- 
fection, or  salvation.    It  is  a  means 


to  an  end.  and  it  has  imperfect  beings 
to  deal  with,  and  that  is  why  we  have 
the  Gospel  to  correct  our  evils  and  im- 
prove our  lives.  We  do  not  admit, 
however,  that  the  leaders  of  our  peo- 
ple, or  that  the  people  themselves,  are 
in  the  slightest  degree  below  the  aver- 
age of  Christian  morality  and  disciple- 
ship.  I  was  thinking  while  the  breth- 
ren were  speaking  of  a  familiar  pas- 
sage found  in  the  Gospel  according  to 
St.  Matthew.  Thej'  are  a  few  of  the 
sentences  which  fell  from  the  Savior's 
lips  while  delivering  His  great  sermon 
on  the  mount.  Let  me  read  three 
verses: 

"Blessed  are  thev  which  are  perse- 
cuted for  righteousness  sake,  for  theirs 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  Blessed  are 
ye  when  men  shall  revile  you,  and  per- 
secute you,  and  shall  say  all  manner  of 
evil  against  you  falsely,  for  my  sake. 
Rejoice  and  be  exceeding  glad,  for 
great  is  your  reward  in  heaven,  for 
so  persecuted  they  the  prophets  which 
were  before  you." 

"Blessed  are  ye  when  men  revile 
you,  and  persecute  you."  Have  we  not 
been  taught  throughout  this  confer- 
ence, and  throughout  our  lives  for  that 
matter,  the  principles  of  forgiveness 
and  charity  and  loving  kindness?  If 
the  world  did  not  persecute  us  and  re- 
vile us  we  would  have  nothing  to  for- 
give, and  we  would  suffer  a  great  loss 
if  we  had  no  one  to  offend  or  oppose 
us.  "Blessed  are  ye  when  men  per- 
secute you,"  because  you  then  may 
exercise  the  highest  virtues  in  the  hu- 
man soul,  the  virtues  of  forgiveness 
and  charity.  Our  blessed  Savior,  the 
man  of  sorrows,  came  to  earth  to  teach 
us  how  to  live  that  we  might  live  more 
abundantly,  that  life  might  be  made 
large  and  beautiful  in  its  nature,  that 
it  might  be  progressive  in  its  course; 
and  His  life  above  all  other  lives 
teaches  us  the  sublime  principle  of  for- 
giveness. He,  however,  was  not  al- 
ways meek  and  submissive.  Not  al- 
ways did  he  seem  to  allow  evil  and 
sin  and  iniquity  to  pass  by  unrebuked. 
Sometimes  His  soul  was  stirred  to  in- 
dignation, and  in  nobility,  yea  sub- 
limity  of  character  did  he  denounce 


ELDER  NEPHI  L.  MORRIS. 


79 


the  hypocrite,  and  all  who  loved  in- 
iquity and  unrighteousness,  calling 
them  hypocrites  who  garnished  the 
^sepulchres  and  so  on,  made  the  extern- 
al look  clean  and  white  and  beautiful, 
but  within  they  were  full  of  dead 
men's  bones,  and  their  hearts  were  cor- 
rupt and  their  inner  lives  unholy.  They 
were  not  what  they  seemed  or  profess- 
ed to  be.  But  as  we  reach  the  climax 
in  His  sublime  career,  I  fancy 
He  almost  needed  this  quality  of  de- 
nunciation and  rebuke,  and  in  the 
Garden  of  Gethsemene,  on  Golgotha's 
hill,  He  opened  not  His  mouth  but  to 
utter  the  sublime  words  which  made 
Him  very  God,  "Father,  forgive  them, 
they  know  not  what  they  do."  This 
is  no  doubt  the  highest  ideal  ever  given 
to  the  world,  and  every  true  disciple 
of  Christ  must  strive  to  attain  to  that 
beautiful  holy  type  of  discipleship,  to 
forgive  when  offended,  to  be  longsuffer- 
ing  and  charitable,  not  only  with  of- 
fending brothers,  but  with  the-  enemies 
who  avow  their  wrath  and  hatred  for 
you.  Then  in  this  light,  for  a  mo- 
ment, contemplate  the  unique  position 
which  the  Latter-day  Saints  occupy  in 
this  world.  Where  is  there  such  a  peo- 
ple-, who  have  an  opportunity  of  for- 
giving and  blessing  those  who  revile 
and  who  would  persecute.  There  is 
only  one  thing  upon  which  the  Chris- 
tian world  are  united,  and  that  is  in 
persecuting  and  denouncing  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  The  love  of  God  has  been 
unable  to  unite  the  Christian  world  for 
two  thousand  years,  but  the  hate  of  the 
work  of  Christ  has  at  last  united  them. 
Now,  this  is  rathe-r  strange  doctrine, 
but  that  is  how  it  appears  to  a  Lat- 
ter-day Saint,  and  we  claim  the  right 
to  speak  as  we  feel,  so  long  as  we 
respect  other  people  in  the  same  ca- 
pacity. 

I  am  reminded  of  an  incident,  or  ra- 
ther of  a  few  remarks  made  by  Pres- 
ident Smith  not  many  moths  ago,  dur- 
ing the  recent  tirade  of  slander,  of 
which  he  has  been  the  extreme  object. 
He  came  into  a  convention  of  Sunday 
school  workers,  was  weary  and  ex- 
hausted from  his  day's  toil,  but  was 
asked  to  speak  to  the  convention,  and 


during  his  address  he  gave  expression 
to  these  thoughts,  these  feelings,  ra- 
ther: "To  answer  our  enemies  in  the 
same  angry  spirit  with  which  they  at- 
tack us,  would  be  to  take  the  soison 
of  the  adder  into  our  own  hearts,  and 
thereby  debase  ourselves  to  their  level. 
It  is  better  for  us  to  say,  'Father,  for- 
give them  for  they  know  not  what  they 
do.'  But,"  he  added,  "I  know  that 
they  do  know  what  they  are  doing." 
Now,  President  Smith  (since  we  are  not 
in  his  preesnce,  we  may  speak  freely 
of  him,  for  among  the  other  virtues 
which  he  possesses  is  the  virtue  of 
modesty,  and  in  his  presence  I  should 
not  feel  free  to  sneak  of  him  in  this 
light);  knowing  him  to  some  degree  at 
least  as  I  do,  I  thought  I  saw  in  such 
an  expression  as  this  a  splendid  tri- 
umph in  his  character,  for  he  is  not  a 
man  like  our  friends  cut  in  alabaster; 
he  is  a  man  whose  blood  is  warm  with- 
in, filled  with  impulses,  passions,  strong 
in  intent  in  his  nature-,  and  after  he 
had  endured  the  most  furious  assault 
which  had  been  made,  carried  on  for 
months  together,  he  could  arise  in  pub- 
lic and  speak  with  such  meekness  of 
spirit,  I  thought  what  a  splendid  vic- 
tory he  has  gained  over  himself.  How 
blessed  is  he  in  being  able  to  say,  "Fa- 
ther, forgive  them,  they  know  not  what 
they  do,"  and  he  would  not  debase 
himself  to  answer  back  in  the  same  an- 
gry spirit  which  characterized  the  as- 
sault made  upon  him.  And  then,  as 
this  is  his  experience,  so  it  is  the  ex- 
perience of  every  Latter-day  Saint,  for 
we  are  one,  and  we-  all  have  similar 
splendid  opportunities  of  exhibiting 
these  true  marks  of  discipleship,  for- 
giveness and  charity. 

There  is  still  another  phase  of  this 
opposition  which  is  developing  quite  a 
philosophy  among  us,  the  philosophy 
concerning  opposition,  for  the.  Book 
of  Mormon  has  told  us  that  there  must 
be  opposition  in  all  things.  We  begin 
to  appreciate  the  benefits  of  opposition. 
We  now  see  that  the  curse  that  seem- 
ing curse,  which  was  pronounced  upon 
Father  Adam  and  Mother  Eve,  was  a 
blessing  in  disguise,  and  today  the  dis- 
guise is  removed  and  we  see  it  plain- 


80 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


ly.  The.  Lord,  when  He  cast  Adam 
and  Eve  out  of  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
told  them  to  subdue  the  earth  and  con- 
quer it,  and  have  dominion.  That  was 
no  curse.  That  was  the  greatest  bless- 
ing which  ever  came,  to  the  human  race, 
when  He  told  them  to  get  to  work,  to 
conquer  and  subdue  the  earth,  He 
showed  them  the  pathway  to  dominion, 
to  sovereignty,  to  power.  What  a  splen- 
did journey  mankind  has  traveled  from 
that  day  to  this!  How  the  earth  is 
his,  and  serves  his  purpose;  how  the 
beasts  of  the  field  and  all  the  crea- 
tures of  the  earth  are  a  service  to  man, 
because  he  has  conquered  the  earth 
and  made  it  his.  So  down  through  all 
the  vicissitudes  of  human  life,  opposi- 
tion, resistance  has  been  a  cause  of  de- 
velopment in  men  of  powers 
and  faculties  which  they  would 
not  have  known  had  it  not 
been  for  this  opposition.  Does  not  the 
eagle  dash  his  beak  harshly  on  a  rock 
before  the  Igneuman  comes;  but  with 
the  fight  he  takes  on  new  life,  increas- 
ed powers  are  developed,  and  he  is 
made  stronger  and  heroic  for  the  vis- 
cissitudes  through  which  he  has  passed. 
In  national  life  the  same  principle 
holds.  Where  will  you  go  for  your 
ideals  as  American  citizens,  to  wMch 
particular  period  will  you  appeal  for 
the  highest  types  of  American  citizen- 
ship, for  the  finest  samples  of  patriot- 
ism? You  will  not  go  to  the  long  period 
of  prosperity.  You  will  go  back  to  the 
dark  days,  to  the  crisis  in  national  his- 
tory to  a  Nathan  Hale,  or  an  Ethan 
Allen,  who,  when  being  led  to  the  scaf- 
fold and  asked  if  he  had  anything  to 
say,  his  words  were,  "My  only  regret 
is  that  I  have  but  one  life  to  give  to  my 
country."  You  will  go  back  to  Wash- 
ington who,  with  his  sons  at  Valley 
Forge,  faced  the  thrills  and  difficulties 
of  adverse  wintry  elements,  scantily 
clad,  foraging  for  food,  but  forced  his 
way  to  victorious  deliverance.  You  will 
go  back  to  the  critical  period  of  Lincoln 
for  another  ideal.  And  so  we  must  al- 
ways go  to  the  dark  hour,  the  day  of 
adversity,  to  discover  our  real  strength, 
and  see  the  development  of  the  highest 
principles  and  virtues  within  us.  And 


with  us  as  a  people  does  not  the  same- 
principle  hold?  Since  we  have  endured 
the  hardships  of  expulsion  from  Mis- 
souri and  Illinois  we  could  be  no  more 
paralyzed  or  frightened  by  such  things, 
because  the  work  of  God  has  triumph- 
ed over  these  things,  and  grown  strong- 
er withal.  In  fact,  I  believe  we  may 
lay  down  as  a  fundamental  principle  in 
human  experience,  one  which  history 
will  bear  out  satisfactorily,  that  men 
seldom  do  great  things  voluntarily,  that 
the  greatest  achievements  in  the  world 
have  come  out  of  necessity.  Men  do 
things  because  they  have  to;  at  least 
that  has  been  our  experience.  Locally, 
what  has  been  our  history  in  this  re- 
spect. We  have  spoken  of  the  increased 
number,  the  increase  of  territory  which 
is  occupied  by  our  people.  We  speak 
with  pleasure  and  pride  of  the  vase  ex- 
panse of  territory  occupied  by  the  Saints 
of  God.  We  point  to  Mexico  on  the 
south  and  to  Canada  on  the  north,  and 
the  splendid  stretch  of  land  between 
that  is  more  or  less  within  the  domain 
of  Mormonism.  How  did  we  happen  to 
acquire  our  foothold  and  standing  in 
Mexico?  Not  because  we  wanted  to, 
but  because  we  were  compelled  to,  be- 
cause things  were  uncomfortable  in 
Utah,  and  we  had  to  go  to  Mexico.  How 
did  we  discover  and  acquire  our  foot- 
hold and  promising  commonwealths  and 
prosperity  in  the  Gem  state  on  the 
north?  Not  because  we  wanted  to  go 
to  Idaho,  but  because  under  peculiar 
existing  circumstances  we  had  to  go  to 
Idaho,  and  the  same  thing  may  be  said 
of  Canada  as  well.  So  that  opposition 
and  necessity  have  brought  to  us  the 
greatest  blessings  we  know;  and  if  we 
ever  move  from  here,  in  part  or  in 
whole,  (I  don't  see  how  that  will  be) 
history  suggests  that  we  thereby  might 
move  another  step  forward  because  it 
will  be  conformable  for  us  to  do  it.  So 
that  we  have  nothing  to  fear  in  oppo- 
sition, but  we  need  to  rejoice  and  be 
exceeding  glad  because  of  the  blessings 
which  come  to  us  by  reason  thereof. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  which  let  me  read  in 
conclusion,  because  they  are  a  source  of 
encouragement  to  me,  and  they  will  be 


ELDER    J.    GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


81 


to  all  Latter-day  Saints;  and  if  he  who 
had  passed  through  the  trying-  ordeals 
that  he  experienced,  if  he  could  speak 
this  way,  surely  we,  seventy  years  later 
with  all  the  splendid  achievements 
passed  before  us,  we  may  also  echo  his 
words.    Said  he: 

"No  unhallowed  hand  can  stop  the 
work  from  progressing.  Persecution 
may  rage,  mobs  may  combine,  armies 
may  assemble,  calumny  may  vent  her 
venom,  but  the  truth  will  go  forth,  no- 
bly, boldly  and  independent,  till  it  has 
penetrated  every  continent,  visited  ev- 
ery clime,  swept  every  country,  and 
sounded  in  every  ear,  till  the  purposes 
of  God  shall  be  accomplished  and  the 
great  Jehovah  shall  say  the  work  is 
done."  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

Arising  to  speak  to  you  at  this  time 
puts  me  in  mind  of  a  story  I  read  not 
long  ago.  It  was  during  the  late  war, 
when  some  soldier*  were  around  a 
camp  fire,  trying  to  keep  themselves 
from  freezing  to  death,  a  preacher 
came  along  to  hold  services.  He  looked 
around  among  the  soldiers,  and  said, 
"I  will  take  for  my  text  Chilblains." 
So  he  instructed  the  soldiers  what  to 
do,  which  was  to  put  soft  soap  in  their 
shoes,  place  them  on  their  feet  and 
wait  till  their  feet  were  healed,  and 
then  he  would  talk  to  them  about  the 
Lord  the  next  time  he  came.  You  can't 
talk  to  people  when  they  are  uneasy, 
not  if  you  are  like  I  am.  You  can't 
preach  to  people  when  they  want  to 
go  home.  Now  if  any  of  you  want  to 
go,  please  go.  and  the  rest  of  us  will 
stay  till  we  get  through. 

I  am  not  going  to  announce  any 
blood  and  thunder  doctrine  to  you  to- 
day. I  have  not  been  radical  for  four 
long  months,  not  since  I  had  appendi- 
citis. I  came  very  nearly  being  oper- 
ated upon.  I  tho"~M  I  was  going  to 
die  for  a  few  hours.  People  said  to 
me,  "Why,  brother  Kimball,  you 
needn't  be  afraid,  you'll  get  justice." 
"Well,"  I  said,  "that  is  what  I  am 
afraid  of."  Well  now,  the  Latter-day 
Saints  need  not  get  frightened;  they 
will  get  justice.  You  have  been  fed  on 
6 


rich  diet  during  this  conference,  and 
now  I  will  give  you  a  little  coarse  food 
to.  help  you  out. 

I  am  not  exercised  about  the  tri- 
umph of  this  work.  I  air>  not  lying1 
awake  nights  any  more,  wondering  how 
the  Lord  is  going  to  do  it.  Notwith- 
standing the  fact  that  I  am  laboring 
in  the  Church,  I  don't  know  what  the 
Lord  wants  in  all  things,  if  I  did  I 
would  be  willing  to  try  and  carry  it 
out.  The  Lord's  ways  are  not  as  man's 
ways,  and  He  does  thiners  so  differently 
from  the  way  we  want  to  do  them  that 
many  of  us  are  oftentimes  surprised, 
and  it  requires  constant  faith  to  stay 
in  this  Church.  I  believe  it  is  the 
hardest  church  to  stay  in  that  there  is 
on  earth,  because  you  have  always  got 
to  keep  exercising  faith.  I  remember 
hearing  of  a  man  that  apostatized  from 
the  Church,  and  he  was  asked  what 
was  the  matter.  He  said,  "Well'  I 
have  got  tired  of  exercising  faith." 
That  is  true.  Some  people  that  called 
themselves  Latter-day  Saints  would 
have  destroyed  this  Church  long  ago 
if  they  had  had  the  power,  but  they 
couldn't  do  it.  I  will  tell  you  some- 
thing, brethren:  Don't  get  too  much 
exercised  about  the  outside  people.  I 
feel  a  good  deal,  I  think,  like  my  father 
did  one  time  when  he  was  praying. 
You  know  he  was  rather  peculiar,  and 
prayed  in  his  own  way.  He  was  pray- 
ing about  some  one,  and  he  stopped  in 
his  prayer  and  laughed  very  heartily, 
and  then  said,  "O  Lord,  forgive  me,  it 
makes  me  laugh  to  pray  about  some 
men."  Now  it  makes  me  laugh  some- 
times when  I  think  about  the  puny  ef- 
forts of  men  to  destroy  this  work,  how 
feeble  they  are,  and  how  utterly  they 
do  fail.  They  can't  hurt  the  work;  it 
is  absolutely  impossible.  I  thank 
the  Lord  I  have  a  testimony  that 
this  is  the  Joseph  Smith  Church,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  love  the  authorities  of  the 
Church;  I  tell  you,  though,  the  poorest 
way  in  the  world  to  show  that  you  love 
them  is  to  be  always  talking  about  it. 
I  will  tell  you  how  to  prove  you  love 
the  authorities  of  the  Church;  help 
them  by  working  for  the  Church  of  Je- 


82 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


sus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Work 
like  Elder  Ben  E.  Rich  and  others,  who 
have  been  in  the  missionary  field  for 
seven  years  without  any  possible  hope 
of  remuneration  as  far  as  earthly  things 
are  concerned.  All  they  get  is  bless- 
ings. That  is  the  way  to  manifest  love 
for  this  work.  The  Lord  told  my  fa- 
ther, when  He  sent  him  off  to  preach 
the  Gospel:  "Trouble  not  thyself  about 
thy  family,  for  they  are  in  my  hands, 
and  I  will  see  that  they  have  fathers 
and  mothers,  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends,  and  they  shall  not  want  for 
food  or  raiment,  if  you  will  preach 
my  Gospel."  Now  if  any  of  you  love 
this  work  devotedly,  go  out  in  the 
world  and  preach  it,  there  are  many 
millions  of  people  that  have  never 
heard  the  Gospel. 

I  don't  think  we  need  spend  very 
much  time  troubling  over  our  enemies, 
and  I  don't  believe  in  sticking  pins  in 
them.  Take  no  more  notice  of  them 
than  you  would  of  a  fice  dog.  One  time, 
in  the  south,  it  was  my  companion's 
turn  to  ask  for  entertainment,  and  he 
stood  on  a  platform  nearly  as  high  as 
my  head,  and  knocked  on  the  door; 
just  then  one  of  those  little  fice  dogs 
bounded  out  the  doorway,  ran  right 
between  my  companion's  legs  and 
landed  on  top  of  my  head.  That  is  the 
only  time  I  ever  was  frightened  by  a 
fice  dog,  and  I  never  have  been  fright- 
ened since. 

I  say,  we  need  not  be  anxious  about 
the  triumph  of  this  work;  we  need  not 
be  so  exercised  about  it  that  we  will 
lay  awake  nights.  But  I  tell  you, 
every  man  and  woman  in  this  church 
should  be  exercised  and  anxious  about 
the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  and  about  the  preaching 
of  this  Gospel.  Loot  at  our  Savior, 
thing  of  the  anxiety  He  had  for  the 
souls  of  men.  Just  think  of 
the  sleepless  nights  He  must 
have  spent.  I  can  not  be  converted  to 
the  idea  that  ihe  Savior  sweat  great 
drops  of  blood  because  they  were  going 
to  crucify  Him.  But,  He  so  loved  the 
souls  of  the  children  of  men.  and  His 
sorrow  was  so  great  for  them  that  He 
sweat  great  drops  of  blood.    Now  you 


need  to  get  a  little  bit  anxious,  and 
go  home  and  get  a  little  healthful  ex- 
ercise, and  not  sleep  too  much;  lie 
awake  a  little  and  think  about  this 
work.  Now,  I  am  not  exercised  about 
the  sectarian  ministers.  I  wish  they 
would  take  a  little  fatherly  advice  from 
me,  but  they  won't  do  it.  But  I  wish 
they  would  take  my  advice,  and  stop 
making  false  charges  against  the 
Church  authorities.  Why  don't  they 
adopt  the  plan  of  the  "Mormon" 
Church.  Our  Elders  in  California,  in 
the  Southern  States,  in  the  Eastern 
States,  and  all  over  the  world,  follow 
the  instructions  of  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
a  command  in  fact,  that  they  should 
not  tear  down  other  churches.  I  con- 
fess I  deserved  a  good  licking  quite  a 
number  of  times  in  the  south,  it  is  so 
easy  to  tear  down,  and  it  is  so  difficult 
to  build  up.  See  what  it  has  cost  this 
Church;  see  the  number  of  lives  that 
have  been  lost  in  preaching  the  Gos- 
pel. See  the  hundreds  of  Elders  that 
have  been  broken  down  in  their  consti- 
tutions, absolutely  and  utterly,  in  the 
Southern  States.  O.  how  I  pity  some 
of  those  Elders  in  the  South,  their 
blood  is  poisoned  by  malaria  that 
nothing  but  the  rower  of  God  will  ever 
heal  them.  Why.  you  don't  realize 
what  it  costs_to  build  up  this  Church. 

I  am  proud  of  this  work.  I  am 
proud  of  the  authorities,  and  God  be- 
ing my  helper.  I  will  show  my  integ- 
rity to  them,  by  following  their  in- 
structions, and  when  they  want  me  to 
go  to  work,  to  work  I'll  go. 

Now,  brethren,  the  Lord  bless  you. 
You  shouldn't  get  yourselves  tied  up 
by  debt.  Of  these  Seventies 
8,000  men  .  I  am  sorry  there  is 
not  more  than  one  out  of  a  hundred 
that  is  prepared  to  go  on  a  mission,  be- 
cause of  debt,  or  infirmities.  When  a 
man  claims  that  he  would  lay  down  his 
life  for  this  work,  that  he  would  place 
all  that  he  has  and  all  that  the  Lord 
has  given  him  on  the  altar,  and  you  in- 
vite him  to  go  on  a  mission,  you  some- 
times find  him  full  of  sorrow,  and  trou- 
ble and  in  debt.  It  is  the  most  inconsis- 
tent thing  in  the  world. 

Now,  brethren,  the  Seventies  are  not 


OUTDOOR 

all  that  way;  among  them  are  a  lot  of 
aged  men,  too  old  to  go  on  missions,  it 
is  not  wise  they  should.  These  old  men 
ought  to  be  ordained  High  Priests,  and 
allowed  to  labor  at  home.  And  then 
there  are  a  lot  of  physically  disabled 
Seventies,  good  faithful  men;  but  they 
are  not  suited  for  missionary  work, 
they  also  ought  to  be  ordained  High 
Priests.  And  I  pray  God  that  we  may 
in  time  have  an  army  of  Seventies  like 
the  soldiers  of  the  government  of  the 
United  States,  young,  able-bodied,  qual- 
ified to  go  to  the  south  and  to  the  north 
and  all  over  the  world.  We  ought  to  have 
an  army  of  men  prepared  to  go  out  and 
preach  the  Gospel,  so  that  these  breth- 
ren, presidents  of  missions,  can  have 
efficient  and  capable  men  to  assist 
them. 

I  believe  there  was  a  time  in  the  his- 
tory of  this  church  when  it  was  neces- 
sary to  send  all  kinds  of  men!  God 
magnified  them,  and  made  them  mar- 
velous; but  I  tell  you  He  does  not  look 
upon  ignorance  now  with  any  degree  of 
allowance.  There  is  no  need  of  our 
Pristhood  being  ignorant;  there  is  no 
Tieed  of  our  Priesthood  going  out  as 
''the  fishermen  went  out.  They  ought  to 
go  out  well  equipped  and  fitted  for  the 
work  of  the  Lord  as  special  witnesses 
i  of  Christ.  I  know  what  the  Lord  wants 
in  this  respect,  just  as  well  as  if  He 
gave  me  a  direct  revelation.  When 
missionaries  are  wanted  they  should  be 
found  in  the  Seventies  quorums  instead 
of  any  other.  The  Lord  bless  you. 
Amen. 

The   choir   tendered     the  anthem, 
"Jubilate." 
Benediction  by  Elder  T.  A.  Clawson. 

OUTDOOR  flEETING. 

Hundreds  who  were  unable  to  obtain 
admission  to  the  Tabernacle  or  Assem- 
bly hall,  congregated  in  front  of  the 
Bureau  of  Information  building,  and  an 
•outdoor  meeting  was  held  there.  Elder 
Benjamin  F.   Goddard  presided. 

The  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the 
mountain  top."  Elder  Louis  A.  Kelsch 
offered  prayer,  after  which  the  great 
throng  joined  in  the  hymn,  "Now  let  us 
rejoice." 


MEETING.  83 

Elder  J.  G.  McQuarrie,  president  of 
the  Eastern  States  mission,  was  the 
first  speaker  introduced.  He  dwelt  on 
the  subject  of  "True  Liberty,"  and 
showed  by  striking  illustrations  from 
both  ancient  and  modern  history  that 
those  whose  ambitions  led  them  to  the 
worship  of  false  gods  were  slaves  to 
their  unworthy  ambitions.  That  the 
truest,  safest,  and  only  true  liberty 
comes  from  obeying  God's  eternal  laws. 
Those  who  acquire  wealth  and  political 
power  are  never  contented  with  it.  The 
Gospel  alone  gives  that  peace  of  mind 
and  contentedness,  which  Saints  of  God 
enjoy.  We  should  seek  first  the  king- 
dom of  heaven  and  trust  to  the  Lord 
to  add  the  promised  blessings. 

President  Nephi  Pratt  of  the  North-  . 
western  States  mission  spoke  on  the 
restoration  of  the  Gospel,  and  showed 
that  there  is  but  one  Gospel,  and  that 
it  is  essentially  and  eternally  unchange- 
able; hence  the  Gospel  today  must  be 
the  same  as  that  which  the  Master  es- 
tablished. He  compared  the  principles 
taught  by  the  former  day  Saints  with 
those  ennunciated  by  Latter-day  Saints 
showing  them  to  be  the  same.  Also  the 
organization  of  the  primitive  Church 
with  that  of  Christ's  church  today  was 
emphasized  as  to  their  similarity.  Even 
the  mode  of  preaching  the  Gospel  is 
identical  with  that  of  early  days,  and 
the  same  bitterness  towards  the  true 
followers  of  the  lowly  Nazarene  is  ever 
unchanged.  The  Gospel  has  been  re- 
stored by  an  angel  to  Joseph  Smith  in 
fulfillment  of  ancient  prophecy. 

President  William  H.  Smart  of  the 
Wasatch  stake  spoke  of  the  good  work 
accomplished  by  the  Bureau  of  Infor- 
mation. He  told  of  a  conversation  he 
had  with  a  broad-minded  and  intelli- 
gent tourist.  The  stranger  had  heard 
ridiculous  and  misleading  reports  about 
Utah  and  the  "Mormons"  but  found 
them  to  be  false  and  was  happily  as- 
tonished at  the  wonderful  works  ac- 
complished by  the  pioneers,  and  the 
splendid  showing  made  by  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  an  educational  and 
moral  line.  President  Smart  rejoiced 
that  the  "Mormons"  are  becoming  bet- 
ter known  and  consequently  better  lik- 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ed  as  a  people.  He  bore  a  strong  testi- 
mony that  the  Gospel  has  been  restored 
in  its  originality  with  all  its  gifts  and 
blessings.  That  the  mission  of  the 
people  of  God  is  to  declare  the  Gospel 
to  all  the  world,  to  bring  peace  and  love 
in  place  of  strife  and  hatred,  and  to 
bless  humanity  both  in  temporal  and 
spiritual  ways. 

John  W.  Rigdon.  son  of  Sidney  Rig- 
don,  was  the  closing  speaker.  He  told 
of  being  baptized  in  1839  by  the  Patri- 
arch Hyrum  Smith,  while  the  Prophet 
Joseph  and  his  father  stood  on  the 
banks  of  the  Mississippi  river,  and  be- 
held the  ceremony.  On  account  of  his 
father  going  to  Washington  with  the 
Prophet  to  present  their  grievances  to 
the  president  of  the  United  States,  and 
not  returning  for  a  year,  his  confirma- 
tion had  never  taken  place,  and  he  did 
not  become  a  member  of  the  Church 
until  one  year  ago,  when  he  was  bap- 
tized in  New  York. 

He  said  it  had  been  claimed  that 
Joseph  Smith  being  an  unlearned  man, 
could  not  have  written  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  but  that  his  father  was  the 
real  author  of  that  book.  Elder  Rigdon 
denied  most  emphatically  that  his  fath- 
er had  written  that  sacred  volume. 

After  many  years  of  practice  as  an 
attorney  and  without  the  slightest  idea 
of  ever  becoming  a  "Mormon"  he  ques- 
tioned his  aged  father,  who  was  then 
nigh  unto  death  concerning  the  coming 
forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  His 
father  was  emphatic  in  his  claim  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God, 
that  an  angel  had  delivered  to  the  boy 
Prophet  the  Book  of  Mormon  plates, 
and  that,  notwithstanding  he  felt  he 
had  been  ill-treated  by  some  Church 
leaders,  he  knew,  nevertheless,  that 
the  work  they  represented  was  in  very 
deed  the  Gospel  of  Christ. 

The  speaker  said  that  his  father  was 
present  at  the  meeting  held  immediate- 
ly after  the  death  of  the  Prophet,  and 
that  Brigham  Young  was  the  chosen 
successor  of  the  martyred  president. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Our  God,  we 
raise  to  Thee,  Thanks  for  Thy  Blessings 
Free,"  after  which  the  meeting  ad- 
journed with  benediction  by  Elder  J. 
H.  Felt. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

In  the  Tabernacle,  at  2  p.  m. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn: 

0  my  Father.  Thou  that  dwellest 
In  the  high  and  glorious  place! 

"When  shall  I  regain  Thy  presence, 
And  again  behold  Thy  face? 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Charles 
D.  Evans. 

A  new  hymn  by  Prof.  Evan  Stephens, 
entitled  "True  to  the  Faith,"  was  ren- 
dered by  the  choir. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  M'MURRIN. 

I  esteem  it  a  very  great  privilege,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  with  you 
in  this  gathering  this  afternoon,  and  I 
also  feel  it  a  privilege  to  speak  a  few 
■words  here  by  way  of  testimony  in  be- 
half of  the  wonderful  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged.  I  have  felt  during 
the  meetings  of  this  conference  much  as 
the  brethren  who  have  addressed  you 
have  felt.  All  seem  to  have  had  a 
spirit  of  joy  and  thanksgiving  for  the 
light  of  the  glorious  Gospel,  and  all 
have  been  filled  with  a  desire  to  bear 
testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  great 
work  which  the  Lord    has  established. 

1  believe  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
who  have  assembled  together  during 
this  conference  have  felt  in  very  deed, 
as  suggested  in  the  words  of  the  open- 
ing prayer  this  afternoon,  to  glorify  the 
Lord  of  heaven.  There  has  been  no 
spirit  manifested  that  would  indicate 
in  the  slightest  degree  that  there  was 
any  lack  of  faith  in  the  hearts  of  the 
brethren,  or  any  lack  of  confidence  as 
to  the  outcome  of  the  work  that  our 
Father  has  established  upon  the  earth. 
I  do  not  suppose  that  any  of  those  who 
have  spoken  understand  in  detail  how 
God's  work  is  to  be  wrousht  out,  or 
how  it  is  to  be  made  victorious,  and 
overcome  the  opposition  with  which  it 
will  have  to  contend.  We  only  know 
that  the  Lord  of  heaven  has  spoken; 
that  He  has  revealed  the  authority  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood;  that  He  has  made 
promises  in  connection  with  the  powers 
of  the  Priesthood,  and  decreed  the  ul- 
timate triumph  of  the  work  which  He 
has  introduced.  It  certainly  is  a  very 
great  thing  to  be  blessed  with 
this     spirit     of     confidence,     and  to» 


ELDER  JOSEPH 

feel  in  one's  soul  that  the  work 
will  be  successful.  As  one  of  the  speak- 
ers closed  his  remarks  this  morning,  a 
brother  patted  the  knee  of  his  associ- 
ate and  said,  "We  are  going  to  win 
out."  He  felt  so  impressed  by  the  re- 
marks that  were  made  by  Brother  Ells- 
worth regarding  the  spirit,  manifested 
by  the  people  of  the  city  of  Nauvoo— 
people  who  had  once  looked  with  con- 
tempt upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  and 
■entirely  misunderstod  their  motives, 
now  were  beginning  to  change  their 
opinion,  and  to  feel  that  there  was  a 
something  about  them  that  was  most 
commendable  and  desirable. 

When  we  look  back  over  the  history 
of  the  people  for  the  past  75  years  we 
discover  there  has  been  a  steady  and 
wonderful  growth.  We  realize  that 
the  promises  that  have  been  made, 
through  the  voice  of  inspiration  and 
revelation,  concerning  the  growth  and 
development  of  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
have  all  been  verified  as  far  as  we  have 
advanced  in  our  history.  If  some  of 
the  aged  men  and  women  who  had  part 
in  this  great  work  in  the  early  days 
were  to  give  their  testimony,  I  imagine 
that  that  testimony  would  be  to  the  ef- 
fect that  the  condition  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  at  the  present  time  was  be- 
yond what  they  anticipated  in  the  in- 
ception of  the  work.  In  those  days 
the  lives  of  the  leaders  of  the  people 
were  constantly  sought.  They  were 
hounded  from  place  to  place,  their 
homes  were  broken  up  time  after  time, 
and  they  were  compelled  to  be  almost 
constantly  upon  the  move,  seeking  new 
locations  where  they  might  establish 
themselves.  I  very  much  doubt  if  those 
heroes  and  heroines  of  the  past  ever 
saw,  while  looking  into  the  future,  the 
mighty  growth  and  strength  of  the  peo- 
ple as  we  see  it  today.  Surely  the 
promises  of  the  Lord  have  been  mar- 
vellously fulfilled,  and  the  efforts  of 
those  who  have  so  strenuously  sought 
the  destruction  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  been  brought  to  naught  in 
a  most  wonderful  way.  Our  course  has 
been  an  upward  course.  We  have  been 
constantly  advancing.     In  spite  of  the 


W.  McMURRIN.  35 

misrepresentations  so  widely  circulated 
regarding  us,  there  are  many  thousands 
of  people  who  are  beginning  to  be  ac- 
quainted with  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Many  of  those  who  journey  through  our 
country,  and  who  come  in  contact  with 
the  people  in  their  homes,  go  away  im- 
pressed with  the  feeling  that  there  is 
a  power,  a  strength,  a  goodness,  and  a 
virtue,  connected  with  the  work  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  they  little 
dreamed  of.  It  is  my  faith  that  this 
growth  will  still  continue,  and  that 
the  promises  made  by  our  Father  in 
heaven  will  be  accomplished.  I  take  a 
great  deal  of  comfort  in  reading  some 
of  these  promises,  and  I  would  like  to 
read  to  this  great  congregation  a  few 
words  of  revelation  given  in  the  early 
days  of  the  Church.  It  has  been  writ- 
ten in  the  Old  Scriptures  that  where 
there  is  no  vision  the  people  perish.' 
When  the  Lord  does  not  reveal 
His  will  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth 
they  are  in  a  perishing  condition. 

Our  Father  in  heaven,  because  of  the 
love  He  has  for  His  creatures,  has  man- 
ifested His  will  in  all  ages  of  the  world, 
and  has  spoken  to  the  prophets.  The 
testimony  of  the  Holy  Scriptures  is, 
"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing, 
but  He  revealeth  His  secrets  to  His 
servants  the  prophets."  When  we  have 
a  promise  of  this  character,  that  has 
been  given  by  the  inspiration  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  we  can  understand  and 
know  that  the  great  and  marvelous 
work,  spoken  of  by  all  the  prophets, 
will  not  be  accomplished  without  the 
Lord  revealing  to  the  prophets  of  the 
latter  times,  what  He  intends  to  do. 
Our  Father  has  always  raised  up  men 
and  filled  them  with  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  that  they  might  commu- 
nicate His  will  to  the  people.  As  God 
in  times  past  has  looked  in  compassion 
upon  mankind,  and  has  raised  up  men 
who  were  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost 
to  deliver  His  words,  so  in  these  latter 
times  He  has  manifested  the  same 
manner  of  love  for  His  children  here 
below,  and  He  has  declared: 

"Wherefore  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the 
calamity  which  should  come  upon  the 


gg  GENERAL.  < 

inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon 
my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  and 
spoke  unto  him  from  heaven  and  gave 
him  commandments; 

"And  also  gave  commandments  to 
others,  that  they  should  proclaim  these 
things  unto  the  world,  and  all  this 
that  it  might  be  fulfilled,  which  was 
written  by  the  prophets. 

"The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall 
come  forth  and  break  down  the  mighty 
and  strong  ones,  that  man  should  not 
counsel  his  fellow  man,  neither  trust 
in  the  arm  of  flesh. 

"But  that  every  man  might  speak  in 
the  name  of  God  the  Lord,  even  the 
Savior  of  the  world; 

"That  faith  also  might  increase  in 
the  earth; 

"That  mine  everlasting  covenant 
might  be  established; 

"That  the  fullness  of  my  gospel  might 
be  proclaimed  by  the  weak  and  the 
simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  and 
before  kings  and  rulers." 

The  reason  the  Lord  called  upon  Jos- 
eph Smith  was  that  all  the  children  of 
men,  the  great  and  mighty  as  well  as 
the  humble,  might  have  the  truth  of 
the  everlasting  Gospel  proclaimed  unto 
them,  that  through  hearing  the  Gospel, 
through  repenting  of  their  sins  and 
turning  to  the  Lord  of  heaven,  they 
might  escape  the  judgments  and  cal- 
amities that  are  coming  upon  the  in- 
habitants of  the  earth.  The  mission  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  fel- 
low laborers  is  a  mission  of  peace,  glad 
tidings  of  good  things,  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel  of  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  There  is  no  spirit  in  connec- 
tion with  the  preaching  of  this  gospel 
that  will  do  injury  to  any  man  that 
lives.    The  Lord  has  said: 

"And  -again,  the  Elders,  priests  and 
teachers  of  this  Church  shall  teach  the 
principles  of  my  gospel,  which  are  in 
the  Bible  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in 
the  which  is  the  fulness  of  the  gospel; 

"And  they  shall  observe  the  covenants 
and  church  articles  to  do  them,  and 
these  shall  be  their  teachings,  as  they 
shall  be  directed  by  the  Spirit; 

"And  the  Spirit  shall  be  given  unto 
you  by  the  prayer  of  faith,  and  if  ye 
receive  not  the  Spirit,  ye  shall  not 
teach." 

The  commandment  that  was  given  in 
the  very  beginning  was  that  the  Gos- 
pel should  be  preached  by  those  who 


INFERENCE. 

were  called  and  authorized,  as  it  is 
contained  in  the  Bible  and  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon;  and  the  men  who  were 
authorized  to  preach  the  Gospel  and 
to  call  men  to  repentance  have  been 
commanded  by  the  Lord  that  if  they  do 
not  have  the  Spirit  they  shall  not 
preach.  It  is  evident  from  this  great 
concourse  of  people,  and  the  great 
gathering  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and 
the  hundreds  of  thousands  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  are  not  able  to  come 
unto  this  conference,  that  the  Spirit 
of  the  living  God  has  been  upon  those 
who  have  been  crying  repentance 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth.  It  is 
also  apparent  that  that  same  spirit  has 
taken  possession  of  the  men  and  women 
who  have  hearkened  to  the  testimonies 
of  those  who  have  been  chosen  and  com- 
missioned of  the  Lord  to  cry  repentance. 
A  more  stupenduous  testimony  concern- 
ing the  power  given  to  the  Prophet  Jos- 
eph Smith,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
resting  upon  him  and  upon  those  who 
have  been  commissioned  from  that  day 
to  the  present,  could  not  be  imagined 
than  is  witnessed  in  this  great  Taber- 
nacle this  afternoon,  and  witnessed  still 
more  wonderfully  in  these  mountain 
valleys  from  Canada  to  Mexico.  God 
has  taken  possession  of  the  hearts 
of  the  people  in  every  land.  He 
has  drawn  them  together  by  the  pow- 
er of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  He  has  re- 
vealed unto  them  the  truth  of  the  ever- 
lasting gospel.  Men  in  the  world  im- 
agine that  we  are  not  free,  that  we  are 
priest-ridden;  but  the  truth  is  that 
by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  men 
have  been  drawn  from  the  east  and 
from  the  west,  from  the  north,  and 
from  the  south,  to  this  land  of  Zion. 
They  have  come  here  thirsting  for  the 
word  of  God,  thirsting  for  information 
concerning  the  purposes  of  the  Al- 
mighty, and  their  souls  have  been  filled, 
they  have  been  established  in  the  truth, 
and  they  cannot  be  moved.  This 
is  empressed  upon  us  by  this  gath- 
ering. It  is  still  more  evident  from  the 
mighty  gathering  of  the  Saints  from  the 
nations  of  the  world.  The  predictions 
made  by  the  prophets  are  surely  be- 


PATRIARCH  SAMUEL  W.  RICHARDS. 


ing  fulfilled  when  they  declared  that  it 
should  "come  to  pass  in  the  last  days 
that  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house 
should  be  established  in  the  top  of  the 
mountains  and  many  people  should  say: 
"Let  us  go  up  to  the  house  of  the  God 
of  Jacob,  that  we  may  learn  more  fully 
of  His  ways  and  walk  more  perfectly  in 
His  paths."  If  the  prophets  have  writ- 
ten by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
and  their  words  are  to  be  fulfilled,  then 
there  must  transpire  in  the  latter  times 
just  what  has  taken  place  since  the 
commencement  of  the  preaching  of 
the  Gospel  introduced  in  this  dispensa- 
tion by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Who 
is  there  in  all  the  religious  world  to- 
day who  believes  in  the  fulfillment  of 
these  predictions  of  the  prophets?  Who 
is  there  calling  the  attention  of  the  peo- 
ple to  these  great  prophecies  pertaining 
to  the  latter  times?  As  far  as  I  know, 
we  are  the  only  people  who  seem  to 
understand  these  predictions,  and  the 
only  ones  who  are  laboring  to  accomp- 
lish them.  AVe  are  the  only  people  who 
are  possessed  of  that  power  and  spirit 
that  was  tc  characterize  God's  work 
in  the  last  dispensation.  It  was  to  be 
a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder.  Sure- 
ly this  work  has  been  a  marvel;  in  the 
eyes  of  the  world  it  is  a  marvel  today. 
We  can  rejoice  when  we  look  into  the 
future  and  read  of  God's  promise  relat- 
ing thereto.    This  is  the  promise: 

"And  the  warning  shall  be  unto  all 
people  by  the  mouths  of  my  disciples 
whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days; 
and  they  shall  go  forth,  and  none  shall 
stay  them;  for  I,  the  Lord,  have  com- 
manded them." 

If  this  be  a  revelation  from  the  Al- 
mighty, there  is  no  power  that  can  stay 
the  preaching  of  the  everlasting  gospel, 
Of  that  can  prevent  God's  servants  from 
delivering  the  message  that  has  been 
committed  to  the  earth;  not  because  of 
the  might  of  the  preachers  of  "Mor- 
monism,"  not  because  of  the  strength 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  because 
the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob 
has  decreed  that  this  warning  voice 
shall  be  carried  to  all  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth,  and  that  none  shall  have 


the  power  to  stay  it.  We  believe  in  th-; 
power  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  We  be- 
lieve His  arm  is  not  shortened.  We  be- 
hove that  He  can  accomplish  His  de- 
crees. And  .while  we  do  not  know 
what  means  He  will  use  in  the  ac- 
complishment of  His  purposes,  we  do 
know  within  our  souls  that  this  prom- 
ise will  be  verified,  that  this  Gospel  will 
be  preached  in  all  the  world,  and  that 
the  hearts  of  honest  men  and  women, 
and  the  hearts  of  wicked  men  and  wom- 
en as  well,  will  be  pricked  by  the  pow- 
er of  God,  their  feelings  softened,  and 
they  will  be  turned  from  darkness  and 
error  to  the  Lord  of  heaven,  and  from 
all  the  points  of  the  compass,  as  has 
been  the  case  in  the  past,  so  in  the  fu- 
ture, the  Israel  of  God  will  be  gathered, 
and  His  mighty  purposes  will  be  ac- 
complished. Well  may  our  great  choir 
sint?,  and  well  may  the  preachers  cry 
out.  "Rouse,  O  ye  mortals,  and  heark- 
en to  the  message  of  truth."  May  God 
help  us  to  bear  our  responsibility  well 
and  faithfully,  is  my  prayer  through. 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The 
Restoration,"  sister  Judith  Anderson 
rendering  the  solo  part. 

PATRIARCH  S.  W.  RICHARDS. 

My  brethren,  sisters  and  friends, 
quite  unexpected  to  me  prior  to  coming 
into  this  meeting,  I  have  been  request- 
ed to  say  a  few  words  to  you  on  some 
matters  touching  my  history  and  ex- 
perience with  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  I  am  thankful  that  I  can  say  E 
was  quite  intimate  with  him  while  he 
was  living  upon  the  earth.  There  is  a, 
little  experience  I  had  with  him  that 
perhaps  no  other  person  living  today 
could  relate.  In  the  winter  of  1843-4, 
about  six  months  prior  to  the  death  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  a  messenger 
was  sent  to  me  from  Nauvoo  to  ask  me 
if  I  would  be  one  of  a  company  of  pio- 
neers to  explore  the  Rocky  Mountains 
and  to  find  a  place  for  the  Church  to  g» 
to.  That  request  came  from  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith.  At  the  time  I  thought 
it  a  little  strange  that  I  should  be  call- 
ed upon  for  a  mission  of  this  kind,  as  I 


88 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


was  but  a  young-  man,  in  my  teens;  but 
my  acquaintance  up  to  that  time  with 
the  Prophet  Joseph  was  such  that  I 
could  not  say  no.  I  replied,  Yes;  I  will 
do  anything  that  the  Prophet  Joseph 
wants  me  to  do,  that  is  in  my  power 
to  do.  Consequently  I  gave  my  name 
In  to  be  one  of  a  company  of  twenty- 
four  young  men.  who  were  selected  to 
travel  and  explore  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains and  find  a  place  for  the  Church  to 
go  to,  because  the  persecution  was  get- 
ting so  strong  then  in  Nauvoo  that  the 
Prophet  Joseph  foresaw  that  the 
Church  would  have  to  leave,  retire  from 
the  civilized  world,  and  go  into  the 
mountains.  This  was  then  a  wild  coun- 
try. 

I  am  reminded  that  when  I  was  in 
Europe,  in  the  early  fifties,  it  was  re- 
ported to  the  British  government  that 
I  was  emigrating  many  people  from 
Great  Britain  into  a  wild  country, 
where  they  were  liable  to  perish,  and  it 
was  thought  that  this  emigration  ought 
to  be  stopped.  Because  of  this  I  was 
ordered  to  appear  in  London  and  give 
an  account  of  what  I  was  doing.  I 
was  then  presiding  over  the  British 
mission,  and  emigrated  many  people 
to  this  country.  I  responded  to  this 
call,  and  spent  about  five  hours  before 
a  committee  of  16  members  of  Par- 
liament, telling  them  what  I  was  do- 
ing. I  had  been  to  this  valley  myself 
and  knew  what  it  was.  I  told  them 
that  I  was  sending  people  to  a  country 
where  they  could  own  a  farm  and  be  as 
independent  in  their  living  as  the  lords 
and  peers  were  there.  I  satisfied  them, 
and  they  all  shook  hands  with  me  at 
the  end  of  our  interview  and  wished  me 
well,  and  I  was  invited  by  a  num- 
ber of  them  to  come  again  to  London 
and  spend  some  time  with  them.  I 
speak  of  this  to  show  that  the  feeling 
of  the  people  at  that  time  was  that 
this  was  a  wild  country,  and  we  were 
coming  here  to  perish. 

It  was  the  purpose  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  to  come  here  and  locate  with 
his  people.  He  organized  this  company 
and  held  weekly  meetings  with  them 
for  several  weeks  in  Nauvoo,  and  when 
he  had  them  sufficiently  instructed,  as 


he  thought,  to  properly  understand 
what  was  to  be  the  character  of  their 
mission  and  fit-out,  he  went  across 
the  river  and  made  a  start  to  go  toward 
the  mountains.  It  was  his  intention  to 
go  to  the  mountains  with  us,  as  a  com- 
pany of  pioneers.  But  he  was  followed 
by  those  that  did  not  like  the  idea  of 
his  leaving,  and  while  they  were  plead- 
ing with,  him  to  return,  he  told  them, 
"If  I  go  back,  I  go  as  a  lamb  to  the 
slaughter."  Nevertheless,  they  deter- 
mined he  should  return,  and  he  went 
back  to  Nauvoo.  From  there  He  went 
tc  Carthage,  and  we  all  know  the  his- 
tory of  what  followed.  , 

Suffice  it  to  say,  I  attended  four  meet- 
ings of  this  company,  and  at  one  of 
them,  which  was  in  charge  of  Hyrum 
Smith,  and  three  or  four  of  the  Twelve 
were  also  present,  it  was  said  that 
Joseph  the  Prophet  had  remarked  that 
he  wanted  young  men  for  that  mission 
who  could  go  upon  the  mountains  and 
talk  with  God  face  to  face,  as  Moses 
did  upon  Mount  Sinai.  When  I  heard 
that  statement.  I  felt  in  my  soul  that 
I  was  not  the  one  to  go;  and  just  be- 
fore the  meeting  closed  I  got  up  out 
of  my  seat  for  the  purpose  of  going  to 
Brother  Hyrum  Smith  and  telling  him 
I  was  not  the  one  to  go.  for  I  did  not 
feel  that  I  could  meet  the  conditions, 
but  as  I  got  up  there  was  a  voice  came 
to  me,  and  I  heard  it  distinctly  as  from 
one  standing  by  my  side,  saying,  "Stop; 
rest  awhile."  I  took  my  seat  again, 
and  instead  of  telling  the  Prophet 
Hyrum  that  I  did  not  feel  I  could  go, 
I  went  home,  and  before  retiring  I 
knelt  by  my  bedside  and  prayed  to  my 
heavenly  Father.  If  I  ever  prayed  in 
earnest,  it  was  then,  that  I  might  know 
before  morning  whether  I  was  a  suit- 
able one  to  go  on  that  expedition,  un- 
der the  terms  specified.  The  idea  of 
going  into  the  mountains  and  talking 
with  God  face  to  face,  as  Moses  did 
upon  Mount  Sinai,  was  more  than  I,  as 
a  boy,  could  think  of  encountering. 

No  one  perhaps  need  wonder  that  I 
should  shrink  from  such  a  considera- 
tion. I  retired  to  my  bed  and  remained 
there  about  four  hours,  and  during  that 
four  hours  I  got  the  answer  to  my  pray- 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


89 


er,  and  when  I  awoke  I  was  prepared 
to  go  upon  that  journey  and  do  just  as 
the  Prophet  wanted  me  to  do.  During 
that  four  hours  I  saw  all  that  I  ex- 
pect to  see  if  I  should  live  a  thou- 
sand years.  Someone  came  to  me  and 
told  me  where  to  go,  and  I  performed 
that  journey  that  night  while  I  lay  up- 
on my  bed.  I  came  to  this  valley  first. 
I  don't  know  how  I  got  here,  but  I  went 
down  through  these  valleys  and  into 
Southern  California.  It  had  been  stated 
that  possibly  we  might  have  to  go  that 
far.  When  I  came  here  1  had  to  pass 
four  sentinels,  and  in  passing  them  I 
gave  a  countersign,  which  I  got  direct 
Irom  heaven  at  the  time  it  was  needed. 
I  passed  them  all,  and  went  on  down 
into  Southern  California.  Then  I  was 
prompted  to  go  farther,  and  I  went  into 
the  northern  part  of  Mexico.  I  returned 
from  there  to  Jackson  County,  Missouri, 
and  there  I  stayed  and  helped  build  the 
temple.  I  saw  that  temple  thoroughly 
completed;  in  fact,  I  labored  upon  it 
until  it  was  completed.  When  this  was 
done,  the  vision  continued,  and  I  went 
and  laid  down  my  body  in  the  ground, 
and  my  spirit  left  this  tabernacle.  Then 
I  traversed  this  continent  from  end  to 
-end.  I  saw  the  Garden  of  Eden  as  it 
was  in  the  beginning  and  as  it  will  be 
restored  again.  It  was  a  land  filled 
with  verdure  and  vegetation,  and  with 
all  manner  of  fruits,  on  which  man  was 
living.  I  saw  it  filled  with  cities, 
towns  and  villages,  and  people 
happy,  living  under  the  adminis- 
tration of  divine  providence.  It  was 
a  Garden  of  Eden  in  very  deed. 

Now,  all  this  I  saw  while  I  was  sleep- 
ing, and  it  was  so  impressed  upon  me 
that  it  can  never  be  forgotten.  I  saw 
that  this  was  the  result  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  coming  to  these  valleys  of 
the  mountains  and  following  the  direc- 
tion that  the  Prophet  Joseph  indicated. 
I  could  tell  a  long  story  about  this 
matter  if  I  had  the  time  to  do  it,  but 
it  is  not  best  that  I  should.  I  wish, 
however,  to  make  the  statement  dis- 
tainctly,  that  this  coming  to  the  moun- 
ains  of  the  Saints  of  God  and  establish- 
ing themselves  here  was  under  the  spe- 
cial  direction  of  the   Prophet  Joseph 


Smith.  Although  there  are  those  who 
say  to  the  contrary,  this  is  my  testi- 
mony. The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  had 
all  this  planned,  and  if  he  had  been 
allowed  to  have  had  his  way,  I  believe 
he  might  have  been  with  us  even  to- 
day. 'He  would  certainly  have  gone 
with  that  company  to  these  mountains 
and  have  located  the  people.  I  was  one 
of  that  company,  and  I  think  I  have 
the  names  of  the  rest.  However,  the 
conditions  became  so  severe  at  Nauvoo 
that  the  people  had  to  pick  up  and 
leave  in  a  body,  before  there  was  time 
for  this  company  to  make  the  proposed 
exploration.  .The  Prophet  Joseph  and 
his  brother  Hyrum  were  martyred  in 
Carthage,  and  the  mob  would  not  let 
the  people  remain  in  Nauvoo. 

These  are  the  facts  in  regard  to  this 
matter,  and  I  am  proud  and  thankful 
that  I  know  of  these  things,  and  am 
glad  that  the  Saints  are  building  up 
these  valleys  of  the  mountains  as  I  saw 
them  built  up  in  vision.  If  the  people 
of  God  will  only  go  on  and  keep  His 
commandments,  the  time  will  >come 
when  this  whole  land  will  be  filled  with 
towns,  cities  and  villages,  and  the  earth 
will  bring  forth  all  that  is  necessary 
for  the  support  and  sustenance  of  the 
people  thereof.  Amen. 

A  quartet  selection.  "One  Hundred 
Tears,"  was  sung  by  Lottie  Owen,  Ma- 
bel Cooper,  George  D.  Pyper  and  Hor- 
ace S.  Ensign.  This  is  a  composition 
by  Prof.  Evan  Stephens  in  commemora- 
tion of  the  birth  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  was  splendidly  rendered 
by  these  well  known  singers. 

BISHOP  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 

The  honor  of  addressing  a  general 
conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  one  that 
I  very  much  appreciate;  though  I  feel 
somewhat  strange  in  responding  to  the 
call  that  has  been  made  upon  me,  re- 
alizing as  I  do  that  these  are  occasions 
when  the  people  of  God  assemble  for 
the  purpose  of  listening  to  their  lead- 
ers, and  that  it  is  more  a  time  for  ex- 
hortation and  testimony  than  for  doc- 
trinal discourses.  Where  the  time  is 
so  limited,  and  the  speakers  are  so 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


many,  it  is  not  to  be  expected  that  the 
privilege  can  be  extended  very  far. 
Therefore  it  is  not  one  that  I  have  an- 
ticipated; at  least  I  did  not  anticipate 
it  until  notified  by  President  Smith  that 
he  intended  to  call  me.  And  this  is 
only  one  of  many  courtesies,  many  acts 
of  kindness  and  consideration  that  I 
have  received  at  his  hands. 

The  main  reason,  I  presume,  why  he 
has  asked  me  to  speak,  is  because  I 
happen  to  represent,  in  a  way,  one  of 
the  general  institutions  of  the  Church. 
Since  the  opening  of  the  year  1899  I 
have  been  connected  with  the  Church 
historian's  office.  While  1  have  not 
been  asked  to  make  any  report,  I  will 
say  that  that  institution,  during  the 
period  of  which  I  am  qualified  to  speak, 
has  kept  pace  with  the  general  progress 
of  the  Church.  It  is  not  my  purpose  to 
draw  any  invidious  comparisons  be- 
tween the  present  and  the  past.  There 
is  no  need  to  do  so.  We  all  understand 
that  the  Lord's  work  is  progressive,  and 
that  it  was  intended  to  be.  It  is  no  re- 
flection upon  the  past  to  say  that  the 
present  overtops  it,  that  we  are  in  ad- 
vance today  as  a  people  over  any  for- 
mer period  in  our  history.  When  I  ex- 
press the  belief  that  the  Church  of  God, 
now  presided  over  by  President  Jos- 
eph F.  Smith,  is  in  a  better  condition, 
spiritually  and  temporally,  than  ever 
before,  I  do  not  cast  any  reflection  up- 
on the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who 
founded  the  Church,  nor  upon  President 
Brigham  Young,  his  worthy  and  lawful 
successor,  nor  upon  any  of  the  servants 
of  God  who  have  in  turn  presided  over 
this  great  latter-day  work.  It  is  sim- 
ply a  recognition  of  the  general  princi- 
ple of  progress,  that  is  inherent  in  the 
work  of  God,  and  is  among  the  things 
predestined.  So,  also,  when  I  say  that 
the  Historian's  office  is  in  a  better  con- 
dition than  it  has  ever  been,  I  do  not 
cast  any  reflection  upon  the  faithful 
services  of  former  historians.  But  it 
gives  me  pleasure  to  testify  to  the  wis- 
dom, ability  and  energy  manifested  by 
President  Anthon  H.  Lund,  the  present 
historian.  He  has  watched  over  the  in- 
stitution with  all  the  care  and  anxiety 
of  a  father  for  his  favorite  child.  He 


has  given  it  what  time  he  could  spare 
from  his  duties,  as  one  of  the  First 
Presidency.  He  has  come  early  and 
remained  late,  and  has  put  in  more 
hours  of  willing  and  cheerful  toil  than 
any  of  his  subordinates.  I  attribute 
much  of  the  present  good  condition  of 
the  office  to  him  and  to  those  who  have 
directed  his  labors. 

I  wish  I  could  say  all  that  is  in  my 
heart  to  say.  I  wish  I  could  utter  the 
thoughts  that  arise  in  me  as  I  gaze 
upon  this  great  congregation.  I  see 
men  and  women  from  the  north,  from 
the  south,  from  the  east,  and  from  the 
west,  assembled  here  for  the  purpose 
of  being  instructed,  counseled, strength- 
ened and  renewed,  that  they  may  go- 
forth  from  this  conference  with  the 
spirit  of  it  upon  them  and  within  them, 
to  carry  the  same  to  the  remotest  parts 
of  the  Church.  While  contemplating 
the  scene  I  have  mentally  compared 
this  multitude  to  the  waters  of  the 
ocean,  that  are  taken  up  into  the  clouds 
and  sprinkled  over  the  earth,  to 
moisten  and  refresh  the  dry  places; 
rivulets  becoming  streams,  streams 
flowing  into  rivers,  and  the  waters, 
through  the  rivers,  finding  their  way 
back  to  the  ocean.  Why  do  they  con- 
tinually thus  return?  Why  this  eternal 
round  of  renewal  and  progression?  It 
is  because  it  is  necessary,  in  the  pro- 
cesses of  nature,  in  the  great  plan  of 
God,  that  it  should  be  so.  that  these 
waters,  which  become  stagnant  and 
turbid  by  remaining  too  long  upon 
the  surface  of  the  earth,  may  be 
cleansed,  revivified,  and  sent  forth 
again  over  the  face  of  the  globe,  to 
make  it  bloom  with  verdure  and  blos- 
som with  beauty.  As  often  as  they 
are  scattered,  they  are  gathered  again, 
to  pass  through  the  bosom  of  the  "self- 
purifying,  unpolluted  sea." 

It  seems  to  me  that  we  can  learn 
something  from  this  lesson,  written 
by  the  God  of  nature  in  the  great  book 
of  nature.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are 
gathered  together  periodically  in  gen- 
eral conference.  "My  people  shall  meet 
tcgether  often,"  the  Lord  says,  to  par- 
take of  the  sacrament,  to  receive  in- 
struction, to  be  reminded  of  their  du- 


ELDER  ORSON.  F.  WHITNEY. 


91 


ties  as  Saints,  and  to  have  their 
spiritual  strength  renewed.  When  the 
call  goes  forth  from  the  First  Presi- 
dency, "Come  to  the  general  confer- 
ence," it  is  the  duty  of  the  Saints  not 
only  in  Utah,  but  also  in  Idaho,  Ari- 
zona, in  Canada,  in  Mexico,  and 
throughout  the  intervening  region,  to 
lay  aside  their  everyday  labors,  and 
come,  as  many  as  possibly  can,  to  these 
gatherings  of  God's  people,  where  the 
stagnant  waters  of  their  souls  may  be 
purified  and  set  in  motion,  where  they 
may  receive  new  strength,  new  energy, 
and  go  hence  to  moisten  with  the 
Spirit  they  here  imbibe  the  dry  and 
barren  places;  to  stir  up  the  people  of 
Gcd,  rouse  the  indifferent,  reform  the 
erring,  and  bless  all  with  whom  they 
come  in  contact,  by  imparting  to  them 
the  good  things  they  have  here  obtain- 
ed. "Freely  ye  have  received,  freely 
give.". 

What  has  been  the  purpose  of  the 
scattering  and  the  gathering  of  the 
House  of  Israel?  What  is  the  sig- 
nificance of  sending  into  the  world  a 
chosen  race  of  spirits,  called  upon 
earth  the  children  of  Abraham,  Isaac, 
and  Jacob,  but  known  to  us  to  have 
been  the  children  of  God  before  Abra- 
ham was  born?  They  were  chosen  in 
the  heavens,  before  they  came  in  the 
flesh,  and  were  sent  forth  from  the 
presence  cf  God  with  a  mission.  We 
who  call  ourselves  Latter-day  S'aints 
are  a  branch  of  the  house  of  Israel, 
gathered  out  from  among  the  Gentiles; 
we  are  a  portion  of  that  martyred  na- 
tion, chosen  of  God  and  sent  upon 
earth  to  suffer  and  endure  for  His  sake 
and  for  the  sake  of  all  mankind;  to 
bear  the  oracles  of  God,  and  be  His 
representatives  in  the  midst  of  the  hu- 
man race.  Read  what  Moses  says  in 
the  eighth  verse  of  the  32nd  chapter 
of  Deuteronomy,  if  you  doubt  that 
Israel  had  an  existence  before  the 
earthly  days  of  Father  Abraham.  The 
passage  runs  as  follows:  'When  the 
Most  High  divided  to  the  nations  their 
inheritance,  when  he  separated  the 
sons  of  Adam,  he  set  tiie  bounds  of  the 
people  according  to  the  number  of  the 
children  of  Israel."    This  was  before 


the  birth  of  Abraham.  The  Lord  had 
nations  upon  the  earth  before  that 
time,  and  he  set  their  bounds  accord- 
ing to  the  number  of  the  children  of 
Israel  .  What  does  this  mean,  if  not 
that  Israel  was  a  pre-existent  race,  or- 
dained before  the  world  was  to  p*erform 
the  great  and  important  mission  that 
has  rested  upon  them  all  down  the 
ages,  and  a  portion  of  which  is  now 
being  performed  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  the  gathered  children  of  Eph- 
ra  im. 

If  this  be  true  of  the  whole  house  of 
Israel,  how  much  more  true  of  those 
mighty  ones  who  have  risen  in  the 
midst  of  the  people  of  God,  who  have 
been  called  to  be  His  prophets  and 
apostles,  His  spiritual  ministers  to 
mankind?  If  it  be  true  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  as  a  body,  how  much  more 
true  of  those  whom  we  sustain  as  our 
leaders?  What  should  be  our  conduct 
towards  them  I  know  what  the  Pro- 
phet Joseph  said:  "Brethren,  in  all 
your  kickings  and  flounderings,  see  to. 
it  that  you  do  not  betray  the  servants 
of  God;  there  is  no  sin  that  can  be 
compared  to  it.'  "Touch  not  mine  an- 
ointed, do  my  prophets  no  harm,'  'is 
the  warning  word  of  the  Lord  that  has 
ccme  down  through  the  centuries.  A 
great  lesson  is  taught,  -  one  that  all 
men  would  do  well  to  heed,  in  the 
Savior's  description  of  the  last  judg- 
ment: 

"When  the  Son  of  man  shall  come  in- 
his  glory,  and  all  the  holy  angels  with 
him,  then  shall  He  sit  upon  the  throne 
of  his  glory: 

"And  before  him  shall  be  gathered  all 
nations:  and  he  shall  separate  them 
one  from  another,  as  a  shepherd  divid- 
eth  his  sheep  from  the  goats: 

And  he  shall  set  the  sheep  on  his 
right  hand,  but  the  goats  on  the  left. 

"Then  shall  the  King  say  unto  them 
on  his  right  hand,  Come,  ye  blessed  of 
my  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  pre- 
pared for  you  from  the  foundation  of 
the  world: 

"For  I  was  an  hungered  and  ye  gave 
me  meat;  I  was  thirsty,  and  ye  gave  me 
drink:  I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took 
me  in: 

"Naked,  and  ye  clothed  me:  I  was 
sick,  and  ye  visited  me:  I  was  in  pris- 
on, and  ye  came  unto  me. 

'"Then  shall  the  righteous  answer 
him,  saying,  Lord,  when  saw  we  thee  an 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hungered,  and  fed  thee?  or  thirsty,  and 
gave  thee  drink? 

"When  saw  we  thee  a  stranger,  and 
took  thee  in?  or  naked,  and  clothed 
thee? 

"Or  when  saw  we  thee  sick,  or  in 
prison,  and  came  unto  thee? 

"And  the  King  shall  answer  and  say 
tinto  them,  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  In- 
asmuch as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of 
the  least  of  these,  my  brethren,  ye  have 
done  it  unto  me. 

"Then  shall  he  say  also  unto  them 
on  the  left  hand,  Depart  from  me,  ye 
cursed,  into  everlasting  fire,  prepared 
for  the  devil  and  his  angels: 

"For  I  was  an  hungered,  and  ye  gave 
me  no  meat:  I  was  thirsty,  and  ye 
gave  me  no  drink: 

"I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took  me 
not  in:  naked,  and  ye  clothed  me  not: 
sick,  and  in  prison,  and  ye  visited  me 
not. 

"Then  shall  they  also  answer  him. 
saying,  Lord,-  when  saw  we  thee  an 
hungered,  or  athirst,  or  a  stranger,  or 
naked,  or  sick,  or  in  prison,  and  did  not 
minister  unto  thee? 

"Then  shall  he  answer  them,  saying, 
Verily  I  say  unto  you,  Inasmuch  as  ye 
did  it  not  to  one  of  the  least  of  these, 
ye  did  it  not  to  me. 

"And  these  shall  go  away  into  ever- 
lasting punishment:  but  the  righteous 
into  life  eternal"— Matthew  25:  31-46. 

I  learn  from  these  solemn  words  that 
God  will  judge  the  world  by  this  stand- 
ard: "How  have  you  treated  my  ser- 
vants?" I  say  it  to  the  friends  of  these 
men  who  sit  upon  this  stand,  and  I  say 
it  to  their  foes:  How  will  you  stand 
the  issue  when  this  test  is  applied,  In- 
asmuch as  ye  did  it,  or  did  it  not,  unto 
these  my  servants,  ye  did  it,  or  did  it 
not,  unto  me? 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  these  are 
indeed  the  servants  of  God.  I  do  not 
need  to  laud  the  virtues  of  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith;  that  has  been  well 
done  already.  But  I  can  say  Amen  to 
all  that  has  been  said.  He  knows  what 
I  think  of  him.  He  knows  that  I  love 
and  honor  him  and  he  knows  too,  I 
trust,  that  I  do  not  love  and  honor 
him  simply  because  he  has  been  good 
and  kind  to  me.  I  love  and  honor  him 
because  God  loves  and  honors  him.  I 
hold  it  to  be  my  duty  to  sustain  any 
man  whom  God  has  chosen  to  fill  any 
position  in  His  Church,  whether  that 
man  loves  me  or  loves  me  not.  That 
has  nothing  to  do  with  the  principle  in- 
volved.   I  must  be  loyal,  independently 


of  anyone 's  feelings  toward  me.  Doctor 
Bernhisel  was  a  great  friend  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph.  He  lived  with  him  in 
the  Mansion  House  at  Nauvoo,  and 
whenever  the  Prophet  came  into  the 
dining  room,  if  the  doctor  was  there 
first,  he  would  arise  and  remain  stand- 
ing until  the  Prophet  had  taken  his 
seat.  Joseph  asked  him  why  he  did 
this,  for  he  sometimes  felt  embarrassed 
by  it.  The  answer  was  immortal: 
"Brother  Joseph,  I  love  to  honor  the 
man  whom  God  has  honored."  That  is 
the  principle  upon  which  we  should 
love  these  men  who  stand  at  our  head — 
because  God  has  honored  them,  and 
they  are  His  servants.  It  does  not 
matter  whether  they  love  us  or  not 
(though  I  believe  they  do);  they  are 
the  Lord's  servants,  and  it  is  our  duty 
to  stand  by  them,  to  defend  them,  and 
to  lay  down  our  lives  for  them  if  nec- 
essary. 

I  have  a  testimony  that  President  Jo- 
seph F.  Smith  is  the  right  man  in  the 
right  place;  and  this  not  because  he  is 
the  nephew  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  or  the  son  of  the  martyred  Hy- 
rum  Smith.  It  is  in  his  own  right  that 
he  presides  over  this  people.  He  is 
God's  man,  and  has  been  chosen  upon 
his  own  merits  to  hold  this  exalted  po- 
sition. That  is  my  conviction;  and  the 
same  with  regard  to  his  Counselors,  and 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  all  the  leaders 
of  the  Church.  No  mistakes  are  ever 
made  in  the  selection  of  such  men. 
When  the  servants  of  Go  I,  filled  with 
the  Holy  Gkost,  nominate  a  man,  and 
the  Holy  Ghost  in  the  hearts  of  the  peo- 
ple testifies  that  that  is  the  choice  or 
God,  it  is  His  choice.  It  is  impossible 
for  a  mistake  to  be  made.  Every  man 
that  has  been  called  to  preside  over 
this-  Church,  or  to  stand  among  the 
leaders  thereof,  has  been  pointed  out  by 
the  finger  of  God.  There  was  no  pos- 
sibility of  a  mistake,  for  the  Spirit  of 
Truth  does  not  lie.  These  men  come  ti> 
the  earth  with  the  mission  upon  them 
to  be  prophets,  apostles,  ministers  of 
life  and  salvation.  They  were  chosen 
before  the  world  was  to  hold  these  posi- 
tions; and  they  were  eligible  for  thes> 
offices;  it  does  not  matter  what  their 
names  are  here. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


93 


I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that  when 
men  are  chosen  to  be  servants  of  God, 
it  is  because  of  their  own  worth  and 
integrity,  and  not  because  of  their 
names  and  connections.  I  remember 
hearing  a  brother  say  that  he  thought 
his  promotion  in  the  Church  was  due  to 
the  fact  that  his  father,  or  grandfather, 
who  had  passed  behind  the  veil,  had  ex- 
erted an  influence  for  him  .there.  That 
may  be.  but  I  do  not  believe  it  was 
the  main  reason.  The  teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Alma,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
give  the  real  reason  why  men  are  chos- 
en to  bear  the  Holy  Priesthood.  They 
were  ordained,  he  soys,  to  these  sacred 
offices  and  callings,  by  the  Lord  God, 
"that  thereby  the  people  might  know 
in  what  manner  to  look  forward  to  his 
Son  for  redemption.  And  this  is  the 
manner  after  which  they  were  or- 
dained: being  called  and  prepared  from 
the  foundation  of  the  world,  according 
to  the  foreknowledge  of  God,  on  account 
of  their  exceeding  faith  and  good 
works;  in  the  first  place  being  left  to 
choose  good  or  evil;  therefore  they, 
having  chosen  good,  and  exercising  ex- 
ceeding great  faith,  are  called  with  a 
holy  calling."  That,  I  believe,  is  the 
principle  upon  which  these  men  were 
chosen.  They  came  into  the  world  with 
the  ordination  of  God  upon  their  heads; 
and  there  are  others  who  have  been 
ordained  in  like  manner.  High  Priests 
after  the  Order  of  Melchisedek,  though 
it  may  never  be.  theirs  to  sit  among 
the  leaders  of  Israel.  But  they  are 
numbered  with  those  whose  mission  it  is 
to  follow  the  Lamb  wheresoever  He 
goeth,  and  they  are  here  to  help  prepare 
the  way  before  the  glorious  coming  of 
the  Son  of  God. 

It  is  said  that  without  the  Melchise- 
dek Priesthood  no  man  can  look  upon 
the  face  of  God  and  live.  And  yet,  Jo- 
seph Smith,  when  a  boy  of  fourteen 
years,  gazed  upon  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  and  it  was  nine  years  before  he 
held  the  Priesthood  in  the  flesh.  I  once 
asked  President  Lorenzo  Snow  concern- 
ing this  matter:  "Why  is  it,  if  a  man 
without  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood 
cannot  look  upon  God's  face  and  live, 
that  Joseph  Smith  could  see  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  and  live,  when  he  held  no 


priesthood  at  all?"  President  Snow  re- 
plied: "Joseph  did  hold  the  priesthood; 
he  came  with  it  into  the  world."  I  be- 
lieved it  before  he  said  it,  but  I  wanted 
him  to  say  it  first.  Joseph  Smith,  as- 
much  as  any  Prophet  that  ever  lived, 
was  ordained  a  prophet  before  he  cam? 
into  this  mortal  life.  He  held  the  Mel- 
chisedek priesthood  in  the  spirit,  when 
he  came  here,  or  he  could  never  hav? 
received  what  he  did  from  God.  And 
these  men  who  have  followed  in  hi& 
footsteps  are  spirits  of  the  same  class. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  declared  that  every 
man  who  has  a  calling  to  minister  to 
the  inhabitants  of  this  earth,  was  or- 
dained to  that  very  purpose  before  the 
world  was. 

Then  I  ask  you  again,  brethren  and 
sisters,  can  you  afford  to  treat  lightly 
these  men,  these  representatives  of 
God,  these  ambassadors  from  the  courts 
of  heaven?  And  I  say  to  those  who  are 
attacking  them  and  assailing  them,  In 
what  plight  will  you  stand,  at  the  day 
of  judgment,  when  it  is  said  unto  you, 
Inasmuch  as  ye  did  it  unto  the  least  of 
these,  my  servants,  ye  did  it  unto  me? 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 
(Closing  Address.) 

Love,  goodwill,  and  devotion  manifest  by 
the  people.— Blessings  pronounced 
upon  all  the  faithful,  Priesthood  and 
Saints.— Words  of  blessing,  commenda- 
tion, and  encouragement  for  the  sing- 
ers, their  leader,  the  organist,  etc. — 
The  Apostles,  Patriarch,  and  veteran 
workers  for  Zion  blessed.— Earnest 
prayer  for  mercy  upon  his  slanderers 
and  enemies  of  the  Church— Appeal  to 
the  Saints  to  be  living  witnesses,  that 
"Mormonism"  is  God's  work. 

I  desire,  very  briefly,  as  tne  time  is 
already  spent,  on  behalf  of  myself  and 
my  counselors,  and  alsu  on  Denalf  of 
the  Quorum  of  the  Apostles,  the  Presid- 
ing Patriarch,  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
and  others  of  the  g=aerai  .tutnorities  of 
the  Church  represented  at  this  confer- 
ence, to  offer  to  juu,  ye  men  and 
women  of  Israel.  ~ur  most  sincere 
thanks  and  gratitude,  both  to  you  and 
to  our  Father  iii  neaven,  for  your 
prompt,  faithful  and  numerous  attend- 
ance at  this  conierence,  for  the  splen- 
did spirit  you  have  manifested,  for  the 


94 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


union  that  has  characterized  all  our 
assemblies,  for  tne  iuve  and  goodwill 
shown  by  an  who  ncive  met  here  in  the 
name  of  the  Loiu;  and  I  say,  in  the 
name  of  the  i^ord,  ue  ye  blessed,  in 
your  basket  ana  in  your  store,  in  your 
outgoing  and  in  your  incoming,  in  the 
labor  of  your  hands  and  in  the  labor 
of  your  minds,  ana  in  your  prayers  and 
your  devotion  to  tne  cause  of  Zion. 
May  the  Spirit  and  power  and  light  of 
the  living  God  shine  upon  you,  and 
move  you  to  acts  ul  rignteousness,  of 
truth,  of  union,  or  strengtn  and  of 
power  in  the  Priescnood  of  God  which 
you  hold,  and  wnicn  blessings  have 
been  pronounced  upon  you  in  sacred 
places  by  those  wno  n^d  the  keys  and 
authority  to  biess  on  earth  and  you  will 
be  blessed  in  neaven,  to  bind  on  earth 
and  it  will  be  bouna  in  heaven,  and  to 
loose  on  earth  and  it  will  be  loosed  in 
heaven.  God  ble»a  y  ;j.  These  mighty 
men  who  sit  before  tms  stand,  clothed 
with  power  ircm  Aimlghty  God,  they 
are  not  self-called.  They  have  not 
been  chosen  by  ma.i.  They  have  not 
chosen  themselves.  But  they  have  been 
called  by  the  power  of  the  Almighty  to 
stand  in  high  places  in  the  Church  Of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-nay  Saints,  as 
Presidents,  as  fathers  to  tne  people,  as 
counselors,  as  judges,  and  as  leaders, 
walking  in  the  way  that  the  people  of 
God  should  lonow  them  into  all  truth 
and  into  the  possession  of  greater  light, 
greater  power  and  wisdom  and  under- 
standing. God  bless  you,  my  brethren. 
And  while  you  stand  unite'},  as  you 
have  stood  in  the  past,  and  as  you  have 
manifested  your  union  here  during  this 
conference,  so  God  will  magnify  you 
before  your  flocks  and  in  the  midst  of 
your  people,  ana  win  increase  your 
power  and  your  strengtn  to  do  gcod 
and  to  accomplish  His  j  'u  poses,  until 
you  shall  be  satisfied  witn  yo'ir  laDors 
and  have  exceeding  great  joy  tnerein; 
and  your  peopie  win  rise  up  and  call 
you  blessed,  tney  win  pray  for  you  and 
sustain  you  by  their  faith  and  good 
works.  Let  us  go  nome  strengthened, 
built  up,  encouraged,  and  more  deter- 
mined than  ever  oetore  to  serve  God 
and  Him  obey.    No  matter  what  the 


world  thinks  or  anybody  says,  let  us  do 
our  duty;  and  in  the  language  of  Josh- 
ua let  us  sav,  "as  tor  me  and  my 
house,  we  will  serve  tiod."  Let  this  be 
the  sentiment  oi  every  heart  repre- 
sented at  this  vast  conference. 

In  behalf  of  you  who  are  assembled 
here,  my  brethren  ana  sisters,  i  desire 
to  extend  thanks  and  gratitude  to  Evan 
Stephens — a  man  gifted  of  God,  tal- 
ented m  music,  in  poetry  and  m  song, 
and  above  and  oeyonu  an  mat,  a  man 
gifted  with  humility  and  with  faith  in 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  jurist;  who  is  not 
only  diligent  in  nis  labors  here  with 
this  great  choir,  but  wno  is  faithful 
in  his  soul  to  the  cause  of 
Zion.  He  bears  testimony  to  tne  truth 
in  song  and  praise.  ±  -want  to  say,  in 
behalf  of  this  vast  assembly,  Brother 
Evan  Stephens,  vjod  bless  you  and  keep 
you  long  in  the  service  In  which  you 
are  engaged  for  tne  people  of  God  and 
for  the  cause  of  Zion,  and  in  behalf  of 
this  great  choir.  And  then,  in  behalf 
of  this  congregation,  too,  1  extend  our 
appreciation  and  our  gratitude  to 
Brother  John  j.  lVlcCielian,  and  his  as- 
sistants. We  thank  God  that  He  has 
given  us  boys  and  girls,  born  and  rear- 
ed in  our  midst,  mat  possess  talent 
equal  to  that  posses&eu  oy  any  men  or 
women  born  in  the  world.  We  will  not 
admit  that  they  are  second  to  any.  I 
thank  God  also,  in  your  behalf,  for 
this  choir,  wno  have  devoted  hours, 
days,  weeks  and  months,  aye,  and 
years,  in  the  service  or  tne  people;  who 
have  won  a  name  mat  is  enviable,  not 
only  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  and 
the  people  of  Utah,  but  a  name  that  has 
extended  beyond  our  borders  to  the 
uttermost  parts  of  the  earth.  God 
bless  you  [speamng  to  the  choir],  you 
men  and  boys  ot  Israel  and  you  daugh- 
ters of  Zion.  Peace  be  unto  you.  May 
your  voices  ever  ring  clear  auu  true  in 
the  songs  of  pialse  and  tnanksgiving 
unto  God  for  His  mercies  and  kind- 
nesses unto  His  people.  The  Lord  pre- 
serve you.  Be  not  discouraged  easily. 
Attend  to  your  duty,  follow  your  file 
leaders,  be  united,  and  peek  to  make 
melody  in  the  worship  of  Almighty 
God,  who  has  gWen  to  you  your  pre- 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


95 


cious  voices  and  has  put  it  into  your 
hearts  to  labor  in  tne  capacity  of  a 
choir  for  the  benefit  of  Zion.  The  Lord 
bless  you,  and.  He  will  bless  you;  and  in 
the  name  of  Israel's  uoa,  as  a  ser- 
vant of  the  Lord,  I  bless  you. 

Again,  in  my  own  benalf,  and  in  be- 
half of  my  counselors,  President  "Win- 
der and  President  Lund,  I  want  to 
thank  these  my  fellow-servants  in  the 
Apostleship.  They  are  true  men.  They 
are  honest  men.  They  are  God's  ser- 
vants, and  I  know  it.  I  am  intimate 
with  them,  I  live  witn  mem,  I  labor 
with  them,  and  I  know  their  hearts  and 
their  works.  Their  lives  are  open  un- 
to me,  and  unto  tlie  living  God;  they 
are  true  men,  and  i  bless  them.  God 
bless  these  my  brethren.  They  are  true 
to  the  Father,  and  1  know  that  so  long 
as  they  are  true  to  Him  they  will  be 
true  to  all  the  interests  or  His  peo 
pie,  and  true  to  His  servants,  and  no 
power  can  turn  them  from  aod's  cause. 

God  bless  and  preserve  m>  Drother, 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church. 
May  the  Lord  lend  unto  Him  the  en- 
lightening, invigorating  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  that  in  His  administrations 
as  a  Patriarch  to  the  peopic  he  may 
speak  the  truth,  and  only  tne  truth, 
and  that  his  words  may  be  words  of 
soberness  and  knowledge,  \vords  of 
comfort  and  consolation  to  tnose  on 
whom  he  lays  his  hands,  tnai  they  may 
go  away  from  his  administration 
blessed  in  very  deed. 

I  want  to  bless  some  of  my  veteran 
friends  who  are  nere.  j.  say,  God 
bless  you,  brethren.  You  and  I  have 
grown  grey  in  the  cause  or  ziion.  You 
have  ever  been  on  tne  iron  tiers  of  dan- 
ger, as  protectors  of  the  rights  of  the 
people  and  as  protectors  or  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord  trom  those  who 
would  injure  and  do  them  harm.  I  say, 
God  bless  you,  and  He  will  biess  you, 
and  I  bless  you  in  the  name  of  Israel's 
God. 

Let  the  Lord  God  have  mercy  upon 
those,  that  seek  to  nurt  the  cause  of 
Zion.  O  God,  pity  the  misguided,  the 
erring,  the  foolish,  tne  unwise.  Put 
Thy  Spirit  in  their  hearts,  turn  them 
from  the  error  of  their  ways  and  from 


their  follies,  and  bring  tnem  back  into 
the  way  of  righteousness  and  into  Thy 
favor.  I  ask  mercy  lor  my  enemies — 
those  that  lie  about  me  and  slander  me, 
and  that  speak  ali  maner  of  evil  gainst 
me  falsely.  In  return,  a  beseech  God 
my  Heavenly  Fatlier  to  nave  mercy 
upon  them;  for  those  who  do  it  not 
knowing  what  tney  are  doing  are  only 
misguided,  and  those  who  are  doing 
it  with  their  eyes  open  certainly  need, 
most  of  all,  the  mercy,  compassion  and 
pity  of  God.  May  God  pity  them. 
May  He  have  mercy  upon  them.  I 
would  not  harm  nair  of  their  head, 
for  all  I  am  worth  m  the  world.  I 
would  not  throw  a  block  in  tneir  way 
to  prosperity.  Nc;  and  I  beseech  my 
brethren  that  they  keep  hands  off  the 
enemies  of  our  people  and  those  who 
are  paving  their  own  road  to  destruc- 
tion and  will  not  repent,  who  are  sin- 
ning with  their  eyes  open,  who  know 
that  they  are  transgressing  tne  laws 
of  God  and  villifying  and  lying  against 
the  servants  of  the  Lord.  Have  mercy 
upon  them.  Do  not  touch  them;  for 
that  is  just  what  they  would  like.  Let 
them  alone.  Let  them  go.  Give  them 
the  liberty  of  speech  tnty  want.  Let 
them  tell  their  own  story,  and  write 
their  own  doom.  We  can  afford  it. 
They  do  not  hurt  us,  and  if  it  affords 
them  any  amusement,  I  am  sure  they 
are  welcome  to  it. 

I  feel  like  blessing  the  quorums  of 
the  Priesthood,  every  one  of  them, from 
the  High  Priests  to  the  Deacons.  I 
pray  God,  my  Heavenly  Father  to  re- 
member them  in  their  organizations, 
to  help  them,  that  they  may  magnify 
the  Priesthood  they  hold  and  do  the  will 
of  the  Father;  that  the  Seventies  may 
be  minute  men,  instant  in  season  and 
out  of  season,  ready  and  willing  to  re- 
spond to  the  calls  that  are  made  upon 
them  to  go  and  preach  the  Gospel  to 
the  world.  Gather  in  irom  the  Elders 
quorums  those  who  have  proven  them- 
selves, worthy  and  who  nave  gained  ex- 
perience, and  make  Seventies  of  them, 
so  that  the  quorum  of  the  Seventies 
may  be  replenished;  and  the  aged  ones, 
whose  physical  condition  will  not  per- 
mit them  any  longer  to  do  missionary 


96 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


duty  in  the  world,  let  them  be  ordained 
High  Priests  and  Patriarchs,  to  bless 
the  people  and  to  minister  at  home. 
Gather  in  the  strong,  the  vigorous,  tne 
young,  the  able-bodied,  who  have  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel  in  their  Hearts,  to 
fill  ud  the  ranks  of  the  Seventies,  that 
we  may  have  ministers  to  preacn  the 
Gospel  to  the  world.  They  are  needed. 
We  cannot  now  meet  the  demand. 

I  feel  like  blessing  the  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations, which  are  so  powerful  in 
wielding  influences  for  good  among  the 
youth  of  Zion.  May  the  Lord  bless 
them,  one  and  all,  and  make  them  to 
continue  to  be  useful  in  their  callings, 
that  they  may  be  abie  to  magnify  them 
in  honor  before  God  in  all  the  world. 
Peace  be  unto  those  that  preside  in  all 
these  organizations,  that  they  may  be 
equal  to  the  duties  tnat  devolve  upon 
them. 


God  bless  you  all.  xvlay  peace 
abound  with  you.  Let  this  assembly 
of  His  people  come  up  as  a  witness  unto 
God  and  unto  the  world  tnat  "Mor- 
monism"  is  a  living,  moving  entity; 
that  it  is  not  dead  nor  sleeping,  but 
that  it  is  alive  and  awake,  growing  and 
advancing  in  the  land;  and  let  the  world 
know  it.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "When 
Thou  Comest  to  the  Judgment,"  Sister 
Lizzie  T.  Edward  rendering  the  solo- 
parts  beautifully. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Presi- 
dent John  R.  Winder. 

The  conference  adjourned  for  six 
months. 

The  stenographic  report  of  these  pro- 
ceedings was  taken  by  Elders  Arthur 
Winter  and  F.  E.  Barker. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 
Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


Its  Semi-Annual  Conference,  Held  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Sunday  Evening,  October  8,  1905. 


The  conference  of  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  was  called  to  order  by 
General  Superintendent  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  at  7:30  p.  m. 

Present:  of  the  general  superinten- 
dency,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
George  Reynolds  and  Joseph  M.  Tanner; 
of  the  members  of  the  board,  Elders 
Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  Levi  W.  Rich- 
ards, Seymour  B.  Young,  John  M.  Mills. 
John  F.  Bennett,  James  E.  Talmage, 
George  M.  Cannon,  Horace  Cummings, 
Josiah  Burrows,  George  D.  Pyper.  "Wil- 
liam A.  Morton  and  Horace  S.  Ensign. 

The  congregation  filled  the  Tabernacle 
to  its  capacity.  The  singing  during  the 
evening  was  done  by  the  entire  con- 
gregation led  by  Elder  George  D.  Pyper. 
The  opening  hymn  was  "Gather  round 
the  Standard  Bearer." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Apostle  John 
Henry  Smith. 

Singing.  "If  there's  Sunshine  in  your 
Heart." 

Secretary  Geo.  D.  Pyper  called  the 
roll  of  Stakes  and  Missions,  showing  all 
the  Stakes  represented  except  Uintah, 
Wayne  and  Parowan.  Nine  missions 
were  also  represented. 

Assistant  Superintendent  George  Rey- 
nolds stated  that  at  these  conferences 
the  General  Superintendency  wish  to 
hear  reports,  a  few  on  each  occasion, 
from  the  various  stakes  and  missions; 
and  called  upon  Elder  Horace  S.  En- 
sign, late  president  of  the  Japanese 
mission,  ta  give  the  meeting  an  idea  of 
the  condition  of  the  Sunday  schools  in 
that  land. 


ELDER  HORACE  S.  ENSIGN. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  indeed 
greatly  surprised  in  being  called  to  oc- 
cupy this  position  tonight.  I  rejoice, 
however,  in  being  present  to  associate 
with  you  in  this  Sunday  School  confer- 
ence. It  has  been  more  than  four  years 
since  I  enjoyed  this  privilege,  and  I 
assure  you  that  I  appreciate  it. 

Two  years  ago  the  29th  of  last  No- 
vember, the  first  Sunday  school  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  was  organized  in  Tokio,  Japan. 
Previous  to  that  time  the  Elders  had 
been  laboring  among  the  adults,  endea- 
voring to  teach  them  the  plan  of  life 
and  salvation  as  it  has  come  to  us  in 
this  day  and  dispensation.  As  you  are 
all  aware,  we  were  compelled  to  labor 
among  those  who  know  not  God,  and 
who  have  no  conception  of  the  mission 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  found 
that  our  labors  were  not  altogether  a 
success  among  the  adults  of  Japan. 
We  discovered  that  they  had  bowed  so 
long  before  graven  images  that  they 
had  become  absorbed  in  the  supersti- 
tions of  Buddha  and  Shinto,  and  the 
pure  light  of  the  Gospel  had  but  little 
effect  upon  them.  Realizing  these  con- 
ditions, the  Elders  laboring  in  Japan 
made  it  a  matter  of  fasting  and  prayer 
before  the  Lord,  imploring  Him  to 
give  them  light  and  inspiration  with  re- 
gard to  the  dissemination  of  the  Gos- 
pel in  that  foreign  land.  The  inspira-- 
ticn  of  the  Lord  unto  His  servants 
was,  that  we  should  organize  Sunday 
Schools,  that  we  should  invite  the  child- 
ren to  come  to  our  home  and  to  the 


98 


DE3ERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


homes  where  the  Elders  were  residing, 
that  we  might  teach  them  in  their  early 
lives  the  plan  of  salvation,  teach  them 
the  beautiful  story  of  the  life  of  Christ, 
and  of  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  in 
this  day  and  dispensation. 

It  pleases  me  to  be  able  to  say  that 
God  has  magnified  His  servants  in  their 
work  with  the  children.  At  our  first 
Sunday  school  in  the  city  of  Tokio  we 
had  more  than  90  children  present. 
Many  of  them  came  out  of  mere  curi- 
osity; some  of  them  because  they  were 
sent  by  their  parents:  and  I  am  happy 
to  say  that  many  of  them  have  contin- 
ued to  come,  and  have  learned  much 
with  regard  to  the  mission  of  the  Lord 
Jesus.  Immediately  surrounding  our 
headquarters,  we  found  many  families 
in  which  were  a  number  of  children, 
and  from  those  families  we  have  re- 
ceived the  greatest  support  in  our  Sab- 
bath school.  We  realized  that  it  would 
be  impossible  for  us  to  entertain  the 
children  by  telling  them. over  and  over 
again  the  life  and  mission  of  Christ,  so 
we  found  it  necessary  to  begin  the 
translation  of  our  Sunday  school  hymns 
and  to  set  music  to  the  translations. 
This,  too,  was  an  inspiration  from  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  it  has  proved 
very  effectual.  In  the  Yotsuya  district 
of  Tokio,  where  the  Latter-day  Saints' 
headquarters  is  located,  we  hear  almost 
every  day  our  Sunday  school  songs  be- 
ing sung  in  the  street  by  our  Sunday 
School  children. 

The  children  love  to  come  to  our 
headquarters  to  be  taught  the  songs 
which  have  been  arranged  for  them, 
and  we  find  in  going  to  their  hom^s 
that  their  parents  are  happy  indeed 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  organ- 
ized a  Sunday  school  in  their  midst. 

And  thus  it  is  that  one  of  the  greatest 
joys  that  the  children  have  is  to  attend 
their  Sunday  school,  every  Sabbath 
morning  and  be  taught  the  stories 
with  regard  to  the  life  and  mission  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Not  only  do  they  love  to 
hear  these  stories,  not  only  do  they 
enjoy  relating  them  as  best  they  can  to 
their  parents,  but  they  do  take  delight 
in  singing  our  songs.  And  you,  my 
brethren     and     sisters,   would  rejoice 


could  you  hear  their  little  voices  raised 
in  singing  the  songs  of  Zion  as  they 
have  been  translated  into  the  Japanese 
tongue.  At  headquarters  we  have  a 
large  swing,  and  the  little  children  come 
there  to  play,  and  as  they  swing 
through  the  air  we  hear  them  singing 
our  little  Sunday  school  songs,  and  they 
,do  sing  them  with  spirit,  just  as  our 
children  sing  them  here  at  home.  And 
we  know  that  much  good  will  be  the  re- 
sult of  our  work  with  the  children. 

The  Japanese  themselves  are  not  of  a 
spiritual  nature.  They  are  materialists. 
"We  have  discovered  in  talking  •with 
them,  that  if  we  can  show  them  where 
they  can  benefit  themselves  materially 
by  accepting  the  Gospel  they  will  listen 
with  interest  to  our  story;  but  when 
they  learn  that  the  only  benefit  derived 
from  the  acceptance  of  the  Gospel  is  a 
spiritual  blessing,  then  they  have  but 
little  to  say,  and  manifest  but  little  in- 
terest in  that  which  we  endeavor  to 
teach  them.  But  we  do  have  faith  in 
the  youth  of  Japan,  and  I  feel  sure 
that  our  efforts  with  the  children  will 
.eventusJly  result  in  good,  that  we 
shall  see  many  in  the  land  of  Japan 
strong  and  stalwart  in  the  faith,  who 
have  been  taught  the  Gospel  In  the 
Sabbath  schools. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  Elders 
in  Japan  are  doing  grand  work,  espe- 
cially among  the  children.  I  received 
a  letter  a  short  time  ago  from  the  El- 
ders laboring  there  now.  Two  Elders 
had  gone  into  a  new  district,  and  as 
soon  as  they  found  quarters,  they  went 
among  the  people  and  invited  them  to 
send  their  children  to  the  home  where 
the  Elders  were  living.  They  did  so. 
The  last  report  that  1  heard  was  that 
they  were  having  now  an  attendance  of 
S3  children  at  their  Sabbath  school 
every  Sunday  morning,  and  the  Elders 
have  been  instructed  to  organize  Sun- 
day schools  in  all  parts  of  Japan  where 
they  are  laboring;  to  let  this  be  their 
first  thought,  because  we  feel  that  we 
shall  be  able  to  impress  the  young 
minds,  while  we  find  that  it  is  almost 
an  impossibility  to  impress  the  minds 
of  the  older  people. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  having  the 
privilege  of  being  with  you  tonight,  and 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


99 


I  rejoice  in  being  associated  with  you 
in  the  Sabbath  school,  I  sincerely  pray 
that  God  will  bless  the  officers  of  th-.? 
Sabbath  school,  that  He  will  bless  the 
teachers  who  are  teaching  the  youth 
of  Zion.  And  I  ask  you  to  remember 
the  Elders  away  in  Japan  endeavoring 
to  teach  that  people  the  Gospel  of  lif.; 
and  salvation.  God  is  remembering 
them  and  sustaining  them,  and  I  know 
it  is  in  accordance  with  your  faith  and 
your  prayers.  The  Elders  have  been 
wonderfully  blessed  in  acquiring  the 
language.  Most  of  them  speak  it  flu- 
ently, and  it  has  been  through  the  grace 
of  God  unto  them.  The  natives  tell  us 
that  our  Elders,  who  have  been  there 
only  a  little  more  than  four  years,  speak 
with  greater  freedom  and  greater  fluen- 
cy than  missionaries  of  other  denomin- 
ations and  others  who  have  been  there 
for  20  years.  So  you  see  that  they  are 
enjoying  the  gifts  of  the  Gospel,  and 
that  God  is  sustaining  them  in  theii- 
work  there. 

May  God  bless  us  in  our  work,  I  ask 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  E.  WOOLLEY. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  to- 
night to  meet  in  this  capacity  and  to  re- 
port the  Sabbath  Schools  of  the  Ha- 
waiian Mission.  According  to  our  re- 
port we  lead  in  Sabbath  School  work 
in  the  Missions  outside  of  Zion.  We 
have  more  engaged  and  more  schools 
than  any  other  Mission  on  the  earth. 
We  have  sixty-five  schools,  organized 
with  superintendents,  with  their  as- 
sistants, secretaries  and  treasurers,  to- 
gether with  their  aids;  and  we  have 
over  2,700  members  of  the  Sabbath 
Schools.  The  children  of  that  land  re- 
joice in  singing  the  songs  of  Zion,  and 
the  most  of  them  sing  in  the  English 
tongue,  and  we  feel  that  the  Sunday 
School  work  is  growing  in  that  land, 
and  we  are  proud  that  we  stand  in  the 
lead.  It  is  true  the  gospel  has  been 
preached  in  that  land  for  fifty-five 
years,  and  Sunday  Schools  have  been 
organized  for  many,  many  years,  but 
the  work  is  growing  there.  And  the 
Sunday  Schools  send  greetings  to  the 
Sunday  Schools  in  Zion  and  especially 


to  the  General  Superintendent,  even 
President  Joseph  F.  'Smith,  for  the  peo- 
ple look  upon  him  as  their  father,  he 
having  labored  among  them  so  many 
years.  The  work  in  the  Mission  is  pros- 
pering and  we  are  adding  to  the  Church 
each  year.  We  now  have  upwards  of 
7,000  souls,  and,  as  I  saidr  we  are  still 
gathering  into  the  fold,  and  we  feel 
that  we  have  not  laborers  enough  for 
the  harvest.  We  are  now  a  part  of  the 
United  States,  and  we  feel  quite  at 
home.  We  used  to  think  that  the  Sand- 
wich Islands  were  almost  out  of  the 
world,  but  today  we  hear,  twice  a  day, 
all  the  important  events  of  the  globe, 
as  we  are  now  connected  by  cable.  The 
work  of  the  Lord  is  growing  and  in- 
creasing in  that  land  and  we  rejoice  in 
it.  We  rejoice  in  the  Sabbath  School 
work,  especially,  for  we  are  trying  to 
teach  the  young  people  as  well  as  the 
older  ones  (for  we  have  many 
aged  ones  who  belong  to  the  schools) 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  the  plan  o£ 
life  and  salvation;  and  I  pray  that  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  may  be  upon  that 
nation,  upon  the  Sunday  Schools  on 
tho.se  islands,  together  with  all  other 
lands  wheresoever  the  gospel  is  being 
preached.  May  the  Lord  help  us  who 
are  engaged  in  this  work,  both  at  home 
and  abroad,  that  we  may  be  true  to  the 
covenants  that  we  have  made  with  our 
Father  and  with  one  another,  and  that 
the  Sunday  Schools  may  grow  and  in- 
crease, is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  HANSON. 

We  have  nineteen  Sabbath  Schools  in 
the  Summit  Stake  of  Zion,  scattered 
along  the  banks  of  the  Weber  and 
Provo  Rivers.  We  have  an  enrollment 
of  about  2,300,  250  officers  and  teachers, 
that  we  think  are  about  as  good  as 
any  of  the  children  of  the  Lord  engag- 
ed in  the  Sabbath  School  work.  We 
have  nearly  completed  holding  our  lo- 
cal ward  Sunday  School  conferences.  At 
each  of  these  conferences  we  take  an 
opportunity  to  meet  with  the  local  offi- 
cers and  the  teachers  of  the  respective 
schools  and  to  question  them  as  to  how 
they  are  living,  if  they  are  living  in 


100  DESERET  SUNDAY 

harmony  with  the  requirements  that 
were  made  of  them  when  they  accepted 
the  office  of  Sunday  School  workers.  In 
almost  every  instance  we  have  been 
very  glad  to  learn  that  nearly  every 
hand  is  raised,  and  nearly  every  voice 
is  prepared  to  say  that  they  keep  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  they  all  pay  their 
tithes,  are  observing  the  Sabbath  day 
and  are  living  up  to  the  requirements 
that  have  been  asked  of  them  by  our 
worthy  Stake  President  and  his  asso- 
ciates. We  have  the  assistance  of  many 
other  associations  in  our  Stake.  We  are 
probably  more  closely  connected  than 
almost  any  other  Stake.  We  all  meet 
once  a  month  in  what  is  known  as  our 
auxiliary  meetings.  At  these  meetings 
the  parents  meet  with  every  associa- 
tion, and  their  children  can  also  join 
and  meet  at  one  place  in  the  Stake, 
where  they  can  all  go  to  their  different 
departments  and  there  be  instructed 
along  the  lines  that  have  been  laid  out 
for  them. 

We  have  very  good  Sunday  Schools  as 
a  whole,  and  we  are  very  pleased  with 
them.  We  often  have  to  drive  quite  a 
distance,  sometimes  thirty  or  thirty- 
seven  miles,  to  be  in  attendance  at  the 
9:45  prayer  meeting.  This  is  quite  a 
task,  as  most  of  us  are  engaged  in  bus- 
iness at  home,  and  cannot  leave  before 
Sunday  morning.  There  are  only  one 
or  two  schools  that  we  can  visit  by  the 
railroad,  most  of  it  has  to  be  done  by 
team,  and  we  travel  on  an  average  of 
between  five  and  six  hundred  miles 
each  month  in  our  Stake  visits. 

I  desire  to  say  that  the  young  people 
in  the  Summit  Stake  of  Zion  are  doing, 
I  believe,  the  very  best  that  they  can. 
We  have  all  classes.  We  have  a  very 
healthy  Sunday  School  In  Park  City,  a 
mining  camp;  and  in  that  school  es- 
pecially there  is  great  energy  manifest- 
ed in  trying  to  get  the  visiting  breth- 
ren who  come  into  that  camp  interest- 
ed in  the  Sabbath  School,  until  now  it 
has  become  so  popular  that  the  build- 
ing is  scarcely  able  to  hold  them. 

I  pray  God  to  add  His  blessings  to 
our  work,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  congregation  then  sang,  "Hope 
of  Israel." 


SCHOOL  UNION. 

ELDER  GEORGE  M.  CANNON. 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  that 
while  I  speak  to  you  I  may  be  guided 
by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  that  which 
I  say.  I  have  ever  had  in  my  heart  a 
desire  to  not  say  anything  at  any  time 
that  would  bei  contrary  to  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord;  and  I  have  no  desire  to  speak 
sentiments  that  are  not  pleasing  unto^ 
our  Heavenly  Father;  nor  do  I  desire  to 
give  voice  to  any  sentiment  in  which  I 
myself  do  not  sincerely  believe.  I  feel 
that  one  of  the  greatest  duties  that  we 
have  as  Sunday  school  workers  is  to  let 
our  lives  be  of  such  a  character  that 
our  deeds  and  our  acts  will  speak  more 
loudly  than  our  words.  I  am  an  em- 
phatic believer  in  the  fact  that  we  can- 
not teach  by  word  if  our  actions  do  not 
conform  to  that  which  we  preach.  I 
believe  that  Sunday  school  teachers  and 
officers  should  set  such  an  example  be- 
fore their  pupils  that  they  will  not  be 
ashamed  of  their  lives— that  they  will 
not  be  ashamed  to  have  their  children 
know  that  which  they  have  done. 

I  remember  a  few  years  ago  attend- 
ing a  missionary  farewell,  and  the  oc- 
casion was  that  of  the  departure  of  the 
first  son  of  a  man  upon  a  mission.  He 
was  not  the  brother's  oldest  son,  but  he 
was  the  first  son  to  be  called  upon  a 
mission;  and  his  father,  speaking  to 
that  assembly,  said:  "My  son  will 
probably  go  into  my  old  missionary 
field:  he  will  visit  the  people  whom  I 
visited  twenty  years  ago,  but  I  feel  Iti 
my  heart  I  have  no  fear  that  wherever 
he  goes  he  will  find  anything  that  will 
cause  the  blush  of  shame  to  come  to 
his  cheek.  I  am  not  afraid  to  have 
him  go  to  the'  people  whom  I  have  vis- 
ited. I  am  not  afraid  to  have  him 
tread  in  the  paths  in  which  I  walked, 
and  I  am  satisfied  that  there  he  will 
find  that  I  have  left  behind  me  a  rec- 
ord of  which  I  need  not  be  ashamed." 

I  thought  this  was  a  glorious  testi- 
mony; and  I  feel,  in  my  own  heart,  that 
if  everv  one  of  us  could  say  the  same 
to  our  sons  and  daughters  that  we  are 
not  ashamed  to  have  them  go  into  the 
fields  in  which  we  have  walked,  meet 
the  people  among  whom  we  labored, 
and  listen  to  their  testimony  of  that 


UESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


101 


which  we  did — if  we  could  live  in  such 
a  way  that  we  could  say  this  to  them, 
and  say  it  truthfully,  we  need  not  be 
afraid  to  go  back  into  the  presence  of 
our  Eternal  Father.  Little  children 
are  keen  observers  of  that  which  we 
do,  and  while  they  may  not  say,  with 
a  great  writer,  they  feel  the  sentiment 
which  he  expressed  when  he  said,  "How 
can'  I  hear  your  words  when  your  deeds 
speak  a  different  language?" 

In  my  visits  among  the  people,  I  have 
occasionally  found  some  who  have  been 
disturbed  a  little  by  the  comments  of 
those  who  are  not  favorable  to  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  and  have  occasionally 
found  some  who  were  a  little  bit  afraid 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  failing 
to  an  extent  in  their  mission.  I  want 
to  say  to  all  such,  that  you  are  the  ones 
who  should  be  careful,  that  you  may 
not  be  led  astray  by  that  which  the 
enemies  of  the  truth  are  seeking  to 
circulate  concerning  our  people.  You 
know  that  we  are  told  that  if  we  sav 
the  truth  about  our  leaders,  that  we  are 
simply  seeking  to  flatter  them,  that  we 
are  seeking  to  build  ourselves  up  in 
their  estimation.  In  my  own  heart  I 
have  the  utmost  contempt  for  a  man 
who,  in  order  to  build  himself  up,  will 
flatter  any  other  individual.  While  I 
feel  they  are  worthy  only  of  contempt, 
because  they  themselves  are  of  such  a 
caliber  that  they  will  not  amount  to 
much,  yet  while  I  feel  that  this  is  true, 
there  is  another  thing  that  is  equally 
true,  and  which  other  people  should  re- 
member, a*nd  that  is,  that  there  are 
those  who  wilfully  bear  false  witness 
against  their  neighbors,  who  wilfully 
disseminate  doctrines  which  they  know 
to  be  untrue. 

We  find  that  in  any  conflict  that  takes 
place,  the  shafts  of  the  enemy  are  di- 
rected at  the  leaders  of  any  great 
cause.  Those  who  follow  are  of  com- 
paratively small  importance,  and  the 
aim  of  the  enemy  is  always  to  cripple 
those  who  lead.  It  is  their  aim,  if 
possible,  to  weaken  the  confidence  of 
their  followers  in  them;  and  that  is  the 
aim  of  the  opposers  of  the  work  of  God 
today.  They  seek  to  lead  away  the 
people  and  weaken  their  confidence  in 


those  whom  God  has  placed  at  their 
head,  but  I  am  glad  to  know  that  their 
efforts  in  this  respect  signally  fail.  I 
am  glad  to  know  that  they  cannot  take 
from  the  people  of  God  the  confidence 
which  they  have  in  those  whom  God 
has  placed  to  lead  them;  and  I  feel  that 
one  thing  we  should  do,  as  parents  and 
as  teachers  and  officers  of  the  Sabbath 
school,  is  to  teach  our  little  children 
to  pray  for  all  those  who  are  engaged 
in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

I  have  no  fear  in  my  heart  of  a  child 
being  led  away  who  is  taught  in  his  in- 
fancy to  pray  for  the  missionaries,  that 
they  may  be  able  to  reach  the  honest  in 
heart,  and  that  they  may  be  preserved 
and  brought  home  in  safety  and  in  pur- 
ity, and  who  is  also  taught  to  pray  for 
those  who  are  placed  in  authority  in 
our  midst,  for  the  Bishop  in  the  ward, 
for  his  father  and  his  mother,  for  the 
presiding  authorities;  and  I  am  satis- 
fied that  those  who  are  taught  in  this 
way  will  grow  up  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  in  their  hearts,  and  that  they  can- 
not be  led  astray  by  that  which  the 
enemy  may  say  about  us. 

I  have  a  testimony  in  my  own  heart 
of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel,  and  it  has 
been  my  fortune  to  know  many. of  those 
who  presided  over  us  as  Presidents  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  As  a  boy  I  knew  President 
Brigham  Young,  but  only  as  a  child 
would  know  one  whom  he  would  see 
upon  the  stand.  But  as  I  grew  older  I 
was  brought  into  close  contact  with 
those  who  succeeded  President  Brig- 
ham  Young.  I  was  a  teacher  upon  the 
block  upon  which  President  John  Tay- 
lor lived,  and  visited  him  in  that  capac- 
ity in  his  home.  I  was  closely  con- 
nected in  various  capacities  with  Pres- 
ident Wilford  Woodruff,  and  I  also 
knew  President  Lorenzo  Snow,  and 
also  his  successor,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  .  And  I  bear  my  testimony  to 
the  youth  of  Zion  that  I  know  that  all 
these  men  hase  had  the  Spirit  of  God 
resting  upon  them,  and  they  have  been 
actuated  by  the  same  spirit;  that  they 
have  sought  to  carry  on  the  work  of 
God  in  the  same  way.  Each  of  these 
men,   perhaps,   had   his   special  gifts, 


102 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


his  special  qualification  for  the  work 
that  was  needed  at  the  time  that  he 
presided  over  the  Church.  But  I  tes- 
tify to  the  youth  of  Zion  that  their  pur- 
pose has  been  alike;  and  I  know  that 
the  purpose  of  those  who  lead  us  today 
is  not  different  from  the  purpose  of 
those  who  presided  before  them. 

I  know  that  all  of  them  have  been 
men  who  sought  to  teach  their  children 
to  earn  that  which  they  used,  and  to 
support  themselves  by  their  own  ef- 
forts. I  bear  this  testimony  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  feel  that  as 
Sunday  school  workers  it  is  our  duty  to 
teach  the  youth  of  Zion  the  truth  con- 
cerning these  matters,  that  they  may 
not  be  led  astray  by  the  foolishness  of 
men  and  by  that  which  is  said  by  those 
who  are  wilfully  seeking  to  cast  re- 
flections upon  the  work  of  God.  "We 
find  that  today  they  bear  testimony  to 
a  certain  extent  to  that  which  was 
good  in  the  past,  but  we  should  find 
that  if  they  had  lived  in  the  past  they 
would  have  fought  those  who  led  the 
work  of  God  then  as  they  fight  those 
who  lead  the  work  of  God  now.  It  is 
not  the  individual  they  are  fighting, 
but  the  Lord  through  His  living  ora- 
cles. They  seem  to  exemplify  that 
which  our  Savior  said  when  He  de- 
clared that  they  stoned  the  living 
prophets,  while  they  garnished  the 
sepulchres  of  the  dead. 

I  know  the  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  know, 
also,  that  there  are  among  our  oppo- 
nents thousands  who  are  honest  in 
their  convictions,  and  who  oppose  the 
work  of  the  Lord  because  of  a  lack  of 
understanding,  and  because  they  do 
not  know  the  purpose  of  the  Gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Bui  I  also 
know  that  there  are  among  them  men 
who  simply  oppose  the  work  of  God 
because  they  could  not  have  their  own 
way,  and  because  they  could  not  do 
that  which  they  had  a  desire  to  do,  and 
could  not  get  the  support  of  the  lead- 
ers of  the  Church  in  that  respect;  and 
I  know  that  they  would  not  be  now  op- 
posing us  if  it  were  not  for  the  fact 
that  they  have  not  been  able  to  influ- 


ence those  who  preside  today  to  do 
that  which  they  desire  to  have  done. 

I  pray  that  the  spirit  of  truth  may  be 
in  our  hearts,  that  the  spirit  of  love 
may  exist  with  us.  that  we  may  be  sus- 
tained in  that  which  we  do,  and  that 
we  may  be  found  at  all  times  willing 
to  honor  and  sustain  those  who  do 
right,  and  that  we  may  not  let  our 
selfishness  at  any  time  lead  us  to  such 
an  extent  that  we  shall  be  blind  to  the 
truths  of  the  Gospel.  If  any  be  so 
foolish  as  to  leave  the  cause,  it  will 
simply  be  their  own  loss,  not  the  loss 
of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  because  this 
work  will  not  be  taken  from  this  people 
nor  given  to  another  people,  but  it  will 
be  carried  on  to  a  successful  conclu- 
sion. And  may  we  ourselves  be  faith- 
ful to  the  end,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen, 

ASSISTANT  SUPERINTENDENT 
JOSEPH   M.  TANNER. 

This  has  certainly  been  a  great  con- 
ference, the  greatest  in  the  history  of 
the  Church;  and  those  who  have  been 
present  have  undoubtedly  been  im- 
pressed by  the  spirit  of  the  times  and 
of  the  work  of  God  in  this  dispensa- 
tion. We  are  here  tonight,  if  possible, 
to  focus  upon  the  Sabbath  school  work 
tne  spirit  that  has  characterized  this 
conference,  and  Ihe  question  naturaUy 
arises.  What  shall  we  take  home  with 
us  as  a  guide  to  help  us  in  our  efforts 
in  instructing  the  youth  of  Israel?  Of 
late  my  mind  has  been  impressed  by 
the  thought  that  perhaps  many  of  the 
fathers  and  mothers  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  were  misconceiving  the 
work  of  the  Sabbath  school,  and  I  fear 
that  in  some  instances  there  has 
arisen  a  belief  that  our  children  get  all 
the  instruction  they  need  in  religion  in 
the  Sunday  school,  and  that  the  parents 
are  excused  from  that  duty  in  the 
home.  Perhaps  many  have  an  idea 
that  the  Sunday  school  teachers  are 
trained  for  the  work.  They  believe  that 
these  young  teachers  who  have  per- 
chance been  schooled  for  years  in  our 
Church  educational  institutions,  know 
more  about  the  Gospel  than  they,  the 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


103 


fathers  and  mothers,  know;  and  that, 
in   consequence  of  what  the  Sabbath 
school  and  other  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions ,  of  the  Church  are  doing,  they 
may  be  excused  if  they  fail  to  teach 
religion  to  their  children  in  the  home. 
I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,    that   no    organization    in  the 
Church  can  take  the  place  of  the  home. 
Not   one   can  be   substituted   for  the 
home.     There  is  something  about  re- 
ligious teaching  in  the  home  that  is 
not   paralleled   elsewhere.      There  is 
something  in  religious  teaching  in  the 
home  that  has  such  force  and  such 
conviction  to  the  minds  of  our  young 
people  that  it  ought  never  to  be  neg- 
lected.   In  the  first  place,  in  the  home 
can  be  found  the  greatest  love.  There 
is  nothing  like  the  love  of  a  father  and 
mother,    and    there    is    no    quality  in 
teaching  like  the  quality  of  love,  and 
nothing   makes  its  impress  upon  the 
heart  of  childhood  like  the  affection  and 
the  devotion  of  father  and  mother.  And 
so,  when  we  rob  our  children  of  re- 
ligious teachings  in  the  home,  we  de- 
prive them  of  that  love  and  that  af- 
fection   that   helps   them   tt>   be  de- 
voted to  the  cause  of  God;  and  there 
is  no  place  in  the  world  where  our 
heavenly  Father  is  such  a  reality  to 
childhood  as  He  is  in  the  home.  The 
children  see  Him  there  as  they  see  H^m 
nowhere  else.    They  comprehend  Him 
in  the  home  as  they  cannot  compre- 
hend Him  in   the  Sabbath   school  or 
in    any    other     organization     of  the 
Church,  and  hence  the  importance  of 
home   religious     training.      Let  me, 
therefore,  admonish  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  not  to  imagine  for  a  mo- 
ment that  the  Sabbath  school  is  a  sub- 
stitute of  the  home  in  the  matter  of 
the  religious  training  of  our  children. 
And  again,  there  is  something  about 
the  authority  of  the  home  that  comes 
to  the  hearts  of  the  young  people.  They 
recognize   power  in  the  authority  of 
father  and  mother,  that  is  akin  to  the 
authority  of  God,  the  EternaL  Father. 
Somehow  or  other,  children  feel  that 
they  must  be  obedient  to  their  parents, 
next  to  the  obedience  and  allegiance 
which  they  owe  to  God.    Indeed,  they 


feel  that  they  cannot  be  loyal  and 
give  their  allegiance  to  one  without 
giving  it  to  the  other,  and  so  that  au- 
thority comes  into  the  love  of  our  chil- 
dren, and  I  say  to  you  tonight  that 
the  two  fundamental  principles  in  in- 
culcating religion  in  the  lives  of  our 
children  are  love  and  authority.  And 
they  are  stronger  in  the  home  than 
they  are  elsewhere.  We  should,  there- 
fore, admonish  our  teachers  to  do  all 
that  they  can  to  encourage  the  par- 
ents to  help  them  in  the  work  of  the 
Sabbath  school.  I  care  not  how  humble 
a  home  may  be,  I  care  not  how  little 
the  father  and  the  mother  may  know 
about  theology,  how  little  they  may 
be  familiar  with  the  history  of  the 
Church,  how  untrained  they  are  in  the 
Bible,  I  care  not  what  their  natural  or 
theological  qualifications  may  be,  you 
cannot  take  their  place  away  from 
them  in  the  matter  of  the  religious 
training  of  their  children.  And  so  par- 
ents should  not  feel  that  because  they 
are  not  learned  in  theology  that  they 
ought  not  to  teach  their  children  re- 
ligion. They  should  not  only  bear  their 
testimony  to  their  children,  they  should 
not  only  admonish  them,  but  they 
should  use  their  own  experience  to 
impress  upon  the  minds  of  the  youth  of 
Israel  the  purpose  and  aim  of  the  Lord 
in  this  day  and  age.  I  have  not  in- 
frequently heard  parents  say  that  they 
are  leaving  the  instruction  of  their 
children  to  their  teachers  in  the  Sab- 
bath school  and  other  organizations, 
and  that  they  are  relieved  of  that  labor. 
Now  the  Sabbath  school  does  not  re- 
lieve the  parents.  It  should  encourage 
them.  The  work  of  the  Sabbath  school 
should  cause  the  parents  to  keep  pace 
with  their  children  in  the  matter  of 
reading  the  Scriptures;  and  in  every 
way  the  Sabbath  school  has  a  tendency 
to  support  the  home,  just  as  the  home 
has  to  support  the  Sabbath  school. 

Now,  I  would  like  to  ask  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  what  are  you 
to  take  home  as  the  result 
of  this  conference?  What  is  your 
understanding  of  the  spirit  of  this 
occasion?  What  does  it  mean  to 
you  tonight,  as  you  reflect  upon  what 


104 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


has  passed  during  the  last  three  days 
that  this  people  have  heen  assembled 
within  the  walls  of  this  building? 
Many  of  you  will  remember,  some  years 
ago,  twenty  or  twenty-five,  that  an  ef- 
fort was  made  to  win  "our  children  away 
from  the  faith.  Missionary  schools  were 
established  in  our  midst,  and  it  was 
frequently  said  abroad  that  there  was  a 
prospect  of  winning  the  children  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  from  the  religion  of 
their  fathers.  And  when  we  found  that 
the  faith  of  our  children  was  to  be  at- 
tacked, when  we  discovered  an  attempt 
to  make  air  inroad  upon  their  religion, 
upon  their  allegiance  and  their  loyalty 
to  the  faith  of  their  parents,  we  set  to 
with  all  our  heart  to  counteract  that 
influence.  We  were  more  diligent  in 
our  organizations.  We  sought  out  our 
children.  Church  schools  were  estab- 
lished. The  songs  of  Zion  were  sung  in 
the  home  and  in  the  Sabbath  School: 
and  you  know  what  the  result  of  all 
that  effort  has  been.  It  has  been  a 
system  of  education  among  our  young 
people  that  I  don't  think  has  a  parallel 
among  all  the  sects  of  the  world.  I 
don't  believe  there  is  a  denomination 
in  all  the  world  today  that  is  giving 
that  devotion,  that  energy  and-  that 
attention  to  the  education  of  their  chil- 
dren that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  giv- 
ing. Perhaps  we  needed  a  scare;  perhaps 
we  needed  a  warning.  But  the  threat, 
the  fight  that  was  made  against  the 
faith  of  our  children,  led  us  to  that 
energy  we  are  now  displaying,  and  it 
is  beautiful  to  see  this  great  army  of 
Sabbath  School  workers  doing  all  in 
their  power  to  inculcate  faith,  the  faith 
of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  hearts 
of  the  youth  of  Zion. 

Now  we  have  come  to  another  pecu- 
liar period  in  the  history  of  our  Church, 
when  the  respect  for  the  leading  au- 
thority is  attacked,  when  an  effort  is 
being  made  to  undermine  him  whom  we 
sustain  as  the  mouthpiece  of  God.  And 
what  will  the  result  be?  We  need  not 
be  prophets  when  we  predict  that  in  ev- 
ery home  and  in  every  Sabbath  School 
there  will  from  this  time  forward  be  a 
renewed  effort  to  inculcate  in  the  hearts 
of  our  children  that  allegiance  which 


we  owe  to  the  leaders  of  Zion,  to  the 
Prophet  and  the  mouthpiece  of  God  in 
this  dispensation.  For  I  want  to  say  to 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  once 
that  authority  is  undermined,  once  you 
permit  the  youth  of  Israel  to  question 
God's  purpose  in  calling  some  one  of 
His  children  to  preside  over  the  desti- 
nies of  modern  Israel,  and  you  have 
weakened  every  authority  in  the 
Church;  and  if  it  were  possible  to  de- 
stroy our  loyalty  to  that  authority  it 
would  not  be  long  before  our  respect 
for  every  other  authority  in  the  Church 
would  crumble.  What  would  become  of 
the  authority  of  a  Stake  President?  It 
would  crumble  away.  What  would  be- 
come of  the  authority  of  a  Bishop?  It 
would  crumble  away.  What  of  the  au- 
thority of  the  home?  It  would  be  un- 
dermined. Hence  our  effort  to  support 
the  authority  of  God  is  a  question  of 
the  protection  of  our  homes,  the  pro- 
tection of  our  societies,  of  our  wards, 
of  our  stakes,  and  all  the  authority  that 
exists  throughout  the  Church.  Men  are 
badly  mistaken  when  they  think  it  is 
merely  an  action  of  personal  agitation, 
when  they  think  that  we  are  endeavor- 
ing to  exalt  some  individual  to  prom- 
inence. That  is  not  it.  It  is  a  question 
of  principle,  and  he  who  stands  at  the 
head  of  the  Church  understands  the 
matter.  If  it  were  a  mere  personal  agi- 
tation he  would  be  embarrassed  as 
much  as  any  man  in  the  world  could  be 
embarrassed.  And  so  the  lesson  of  this 
conference,  I  think,  will  be,  a  renewed 
effort  among  the  teachers  of  our  Sab- 
bath Schools  to  inculcate  love  and  re- 
spect for  the  authority  of  God  here  up- 
on the  earth;  and  it  will  grow.  Xnd 
then  think  of  what  the  results  will  be! 
Suppose  that  the  Lord  had  something 
precious  to  give  us  through  His  Proph- 
et; suppose  He  had  something  by  which 
a  reformation  was  to  be  worked  in  our 
midst,  and  It  was  to  be  done  through, 
the  voice  of  God,  through  His  mouth- 
piece. If  we  are  indifferent  to  that  au- 
thority, if  we  are  mistaken  about  that 
authority,  if  we  are  not  sensitive  to 
that  authority,  pray  tell  me,  how  we 
should  receive  these  new  revelations? 
Tell  me  how  we  should  comprehend  the 
purposes  of  God,  how  we  should  under- 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


105 


stand  the  spirit  of  these  times?  So  that 
with  us  it  is  a  matter  of  self-preserva- 
tion. It  is  a  matter  of  our  individual 
testimony.  It  is  a  matter  of  protection 
and  safety  to  our  homes.  It  is  simple 
enough  to  see  why  we  should  be  loyal 
and  why  we  cannot  be  otherwise  if  we 
would  maintain  our  position,  the  posi- 
tion of  our  standing  in  the  Church,  and 
the  position  of  our  homes  in  the  midst 
of  Zion.  Well  now,  perhaps  we  needed 
this.  I  have  wondered  whether  the 
Latter-day  Saints  had  grown  somewhat 
indifferent  to  the  authority  of  God.  I 
have  wondered  in  contemplating  the 
present  situation,  whether  or  not  this 
trouble  has  not  arisen  in  conse- 
quence of  the  very  needs  of  the  people 
of  God,  that  they  might  be  stirred  up, 
that  they  might  be  enlightened  as  to 
their  duties,  and  place  themselves  in  a 
position  where  they  will  be  in  touch 
with  the  light  and  communication  of 
Heaven.  It  is  true  that  the  lesson  is  a 
hard  one.  It  is  true  that  it  is  severe, 
and  it  may  appear  to  us  that  it  is  se- 
verest upon  those  who  need  it  least.  Did 
you  ever  think  what  these  personal  sac- 
rifices in  these  times,  mean?  They 
mean  a  blessing  to  Israel.  They  are 
for  Israel;  they  are  not  for  individuals, 
not  for  single  persons.  And  so  I  say 
we  should  be  thankful  to  God  that  we 
are  stirred  up  in  a  manner  that  will  do 
most  to  make  us  attentive  to  our  du- 
ties, make  us  attentive  to  the  authority 
of  God.  And  so  I  believe  that  the  au- 
thority of  God  will  grow  from  this  con- 
ference henceforth,  that  it  will  be  re- 
spected, and  that  by  reason  of  these 
conditions  the  authority  of  the  Bishop, 
of  the  President  of  the  Stake,  of  every 
man  in  the  Church  carrying  responsi- 
bilities to  God,  will  be  stronger  than 
ever  before;  and  we  shall  respond  in  the 
Sabbath  Schools  throughout  the  world 
to  the  spirit  of  this  conference,  and  we 
shall  be  the  recipients  of  that  divine 
benediction  that  fell  from  the  lips  of 
our  President  upon  the  conference  in 
its  closing  hour.  I  suppose  it  will  never 
be  forgotten  in  Zion,  and  the  Sabbath 
School  teachers  will  tell  it  to  their  pu- 
pils, that  it  will  be  a  lesson  to  us  all, 
and  that  Israel  will  be  better  by  reason 


of  the  spirit  that  has  characterized  this 
conference. 

God  bless  you,  my  fellow  workers. 
May  the  peace  of  Heaven  be  upon  you. 
This  work  is  a  grand  one.  We  love  it. 
We  know  it  is  true,  and  we  desire  to 
be  faithful  in  all  things  before  God  and 
His  servants,  and  be  in  the  line  of  our 
duty  and  respect  the  authority  that  He 
has  given  us,  because  it  is  of  Him.  And 
in  respecting  that  authority,  we  are 
honoring  God  and  our  position  in  His 
Church,  and  jshowing-  .'the  gxajtitufle 
which  we  feel  to  Him  that  He  has  given 
us  these  blessings.  And  may  the  peace 
of  God  be  upon  the  Sabbath  School 
workers  everywhere,  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  Horace  S.  Ensign  then  sang, 
"Kind  words  are  sweet  tones  of  the 
heart,"  the  congregation  joining  in  the 
chorus. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 

At  every  gathering  of  this  kind,  at 
each  succeeding  Sunday  school  con- 
ference, I  am  the  more  deeply  im- 
pressed with  a  sense  or  a  realization 
of  the  genuine  greatness  of  the  organ- 
ization here  represented.  I  refer  not 
only  to  its  colossal  proportions  as  to 
membership,  its  hosts  of  officers,  teach- 
ers, and  pupils,  but  more  particularly 
to  the  power  and  influence  exercised  by 
this  great  army,  and  to  the  good  effect 
thereof,  inevitably  manifest  throughout 
the  Church  and  beyond  its  numbers. 

This  is  one  of  the  biggest  Sunday 
schools  known  to  me  by  experience  or 
through  report;  and  when  we  consider 
the  fact  that  the  thousands  here  pres- 
ent constitute  but  a  small  part  of  the 
big  Sunday  school,  our  wonder  and 
grateful  pleasure  must  surely  increase. 

With  great  joy  have  I  watched  the 
growth  and  development  of  this  organ- 
ization; and  I  feel  assured,  not  only 
through  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel, 
which  is  mine  as  a  gift  from  God,  but 
also  by  the  ordinary  exercise  of  the 
faculties  of  observation  and  reason- 
ing that  the  spirit  of  life  is  in  this 
Sunday  school  organization. 

There  is  no  perfunctory  service  rep- 
resented by  this  assembly;   our  work 


106 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


is  not  done  by  rote;  we  manifest  no 
spiritless  service  in  the  Lord's  cause, 
but  instead  a  living-  interest  in  His 
Church  and  in  the  Sunday  school  or- 
ganization as  part  thereof. 

I  wish  that  those  who  have  made  it 
their  business  to  malign  and  defame 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  those  who  are 
afraid  of  our  strength  and  yet  endeavor 
to  make  it  appear  that  ours  is  a  dying 
cause,  were  here  tonight. 

This  is  a  magnificent  organization, 
splendidly  officered.  To  declaie  that 
such  an  army  as  that  now  marshaled 
under  our  Sunday  school  banners,  is 
directed  by  officers  whose  purpose  is 
sinister  and  corrupt,  is  to  speak  fool- 
ishness and  to  invite  ridicule.  There 
is  unity  in  this  great  organization,  and 
this  fact  is  proof  of  unity  among  those 
who  lead  and  direct. 

It  is  to  our  Sunday  school  officers 
particularly  I  speak  for  the  few  min- 
utes allotted  to  me  on  the  program  of 
the  evening.  One  reason  why  we  re- 
spect our  leaders  Is  this — they  respect 
themselves.  In  general  there  is  no 
false  humility  among  them,  neither  i3 
there  false  pride.  A  man  who  is  sus- 
tained in  any  office  or  position  by  the 
uplifted  hands  of  the  hosts  of  Israel 
must  feel  himself  worthy  of  respect  if 
he  would  win  respect.  "When  you  find 
a  ward  Sunday  school  whose  superin- 
tendent does  not  realize  the  dignity  of 
his  calling,  you  have  found  a  school 
that  is  weak.  A  stake  superintendent 
who  does  not  feel  honored  by  the  oflice 
he  holds,  who  has  no  righteous  pride 
in  the  authority  conferred  upon  him — 
a  humble  pride  that  inspires  obedience 
and  yet  renders  his  words  and  acts 
authoritative — such  a  man  is  a  man 
out  of  place. 

I  am  not  enthusiastic  or  eager  to 
sustain  men  who  won't  sustain  them- 
selves. The  officers  of  our  .Sunday 
school  organization  are  trying  to  sus- 
tain themselves;  are  seeking  to  dis- 
charge with  honor  the  duties  of  their 
high  calling.  And  the  result  appears 
in  the  ever- increasing  efficiency  of  our 
Sunday  school  system.  Such  reports 
as  those  to  which  we  have  listened  to- 
night— reports   from   the   stakes  near 


home,  and  others  from  distant  contin- 
ents and  from  the  isles  of  the  s^as, 
must    be    an    inspiration    to    us  all. 

Our  success  should  make  further  im- 
provement easier.  We  are  not  yet  per- 
fect in  plan  or  in  execution.  In  the 
course  of  regular  appointment  and  as- 
signed duty  I  have  visited  some  wards 
and  stakes  wherein  I  have  found  con- 
vincing evidence'  that  the  officers, 
though  they  do  well,  ought  to  do  much 
better.  Some  of  them  are  found  want- 
ing in  true  regard  for  and  in  proper 
estimation  of  themselves  and  their  of- 
fice; they  should  develop  within  them- 
selves a  little  more  of  that  righteous 
pride  that  goes  hand  in  hand  with  true 
humility. 

When  a  man  is  chosen,  sustained  by 
vote,  and  ordained  or  set  apart  author- 
itatively to  any  office  in  the  Church,  let 
him  be  zealous  for — jealous  of — the 
power  and  prerogatives  belonging  to 
that  office;  let  him  seek  to  discharge 
the  same  in  the  fear  of  the  living  God. 
Let  him  become  neither  servile,  nor  in- 
different; the  authority  vested  in  him 
he  cannot  of  his  own  action  pass  on  to 
another;  it  is  his  to  exeicise,  but  not 
his  to  give  away.  The  special  illustra- 
tion I  have  in  mind  is  that  shown  by  a 
custom  followed  in  many  of  our  wards 
and  stakes,  a  habit  that  is  spreading 
and  fast  becoming  common.  I  refer  to 
the  mistake  of  regarding  counselors  and 
assistants  in  presiding  quorums  as  be- 
ing equal  in  authority  with  the  officer 
to  whose  aid  they  have  been  called; 
and  the  resulting  practice  of  a  strict 
rotation  in  the  active  duties  of  conduct- 
ing the  exercises  in  Sunday  schools  and 
other  gatherings.  Each  of  the  three, 
the  principal  as  well  as  his  counselors 
or  assistants,  has  his  place  and  his  du- 
ty. Yet  some  of  our  superintendents, 
presumably  in  a  spirit  of  kindness  and 
through  a  desire  to  honor  their  asso- 
ciates, virtually  vacate  their  place  of 
presidency  and  temporarily  permit  the 
first  or  the  second  assistant  to  assume 
full  authority,  and  this  without  due 
cause  or  excuse.  I  don't  believe  in 
this  custom  and  rule  of  rotation,  fixed 
and  binding,  as  to  the  duties  of  pre- 
siding officer.      Th^re     are  wards  in 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


107 


which  exists  a  general  understanding,  a 
rule  of  action,  in  fact,  regarded  as  hav- 
ing practically  the  force  of  a  law,  that 
on  one  Sunday  the  superintendent  shall 
actively  perform  the  duties  of  a  pre- 
siding officer;  and  that  on  the  next  Sun- 
day he  must  give  way  to  the  first  as- 
sistant, whose  turn  it  is  to  preside,  and 
on  the  next  Sabbath  the  second  assist- 
ant is  in  power.  Thus,  once,  a  month 
the  superintendent  himself  appears  in 
his  place,  when  he  ought  to  be  there 
every  Sunday.  I  attended  a  ward  Sun- 
day school  conference  not  long  ago,  and 
found  the  superintendent  officiating  as 
the  door-keeper.  Now,  it  is  a  good 
thing  to  have  some  officer  near  the  ent- 
rance to  welcome  those,  who  come;  but. 
the  superintendent  has  other  duties  to 
perform.  On  this  occasion  I  asked 
an  explanation  from  the  superintend- 
ent. He  said,  "It  is  the.  second  as- 
sistant's day  today."  Though  it  was 
conference  day,  the  chief  officer  could 
not  officiate;  it  was  the  second  assist- 
ant's turn;  he  was  the  man  of  the  hour, 
and  the  superintendent  was  down  at  the 
door.  I  ventured  to  say  to  him, 
"Please  go  up  and  take  your  place,  let 
the  people  see  you,  let  them  know  who 
you  are." 

This  instance  is  no  isolated  case.  I 
have  in  mind  another  ward,  where  I 
found  the  first  assistant  really  presid- 
ing, to  all  appearances  never  consult- 
ing the  superintendent.  Some  few  ir- 
regularities appeared,  and  I  took  the 
superintendent  aside  for  a  confidential 
consultation  after  dismissal.  He  de- 
sired to  make  no  complaint,  but  he  ad- 
mitted that  it  had  become  quite  the 
habit  with  his  assistants  to  introduce 
innovations  on  the.  days  of  their  re- 
spective turns  in  conducting  the  school, 
on  which  occasions  the  superintendent 
was  practically  out  of  office.  Now,  I 
believe  that  counselors  and  assistants 
in  our  various  organizations  have  their 
place;  but  they  are  not  the  principals 
in  the  quorum.  Two  assistant  super- 
intendents don't  make  one  superin- 
tendent, any  more  than  two  counselors 
multiplied  together  would  constitute  a 
Bishop. 

In  a  gathering  such  as  this  it  is  not 


my  prerogative,  to  speak  of  other  or- 
ganizations than  the  Sunday  schools, 
but  I  shall  venture  to  make  a  compari- 
son; and  if  I  express  incorrect  views  I 
have  full  confidence  that  those  whom  I 
have  lifted  my  hand  in  solemn  promise 
to  sustain  in  their  exalted  positions, 
will  see  to  it  that  you  do  not  go  away 
with  false  doctrine  uncorrected. 

I  have  observed  that  in  many  wards 
a  similar  practice  is  followed,  in  ward 
affairs  generally.  The  Bishop  conducts 
the  services  at  one  ward  meeting,  and 
at  the  next  meeting  the  first  counselor 
appears  as  the  man  in  power;  then  the 
second  counselor  takes  his  turn.  That 
may  be  right  if  the  Bishop  wishes  to 
call  upon  one  of  them  at  any  time  to 
actively  discharge  the  duties  of  making 
announcements,  and  so  forth,  in  the 
meetings;  but  when  the  Bishop  is  pres- 
ent, the  Bishop  presides,  if  I  under- 
stand the  order  of  the  Church:  and 
if  he  be  there  no  one  else  can  in  fact 
preside  in  that  ward  gathering.  I  don't 
understand  that  the  President  of  a 
Stake  can  sit  as  one  of  the  congrega- 
tion simply  and  let  one  of  his  counselors 
take  charge  in  the  strict  sense  of  the 
term.  The  authority  of  presiding  is 
not  placed  upon  us  as  a  coat  to  put  on — 
to  be  taken  off  at  pleasure  and  put  on 
the  shoulders  of  another.  The  Priest- 
hood cannot  be  so  laid  aside. 

I  would  admonish  the  superintendents 
to  remember  that  they  are  superintend- 
ents. Strive  to  secure  in  full  measure 
the  spirit  of  your  calling,  then  you 
won't  ignore  your  assistants  and  cause 
them  to  feel  out  of  place.  You  will  give 
Ithem  every  opportunity  to  magnify 
their  calling.  You  will  be  guided  by 
their  advice,  suggestions  and  counsel, 
for  they  are  counselors  unto  you,  and 
have  a  right  to  suggest  and  advise,  just 
as  the  counselors  to  a  Bishop  in  a  ward 
have  a  right  to  expect  that  the  spirit  of 
counsej  shall  rest  upon  them.  If  the 
superintendent  of  a  Sabbath  School  be 
absent  and  the  first  assistant  is  there 
actually  presiding,  he  exercises  for  the 
time  the  powers  of  the  superintenden- 
cy;  and  he  ought  to  follow  the  course 
of  his  superior  officer  and  avoid  intro- 
ducing changes  in  procedure.    Indeed  if 


108 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


unusual  circumstances  arise  that  .day, 
he  will  make  it  a  point  to  take  time  to 
consult  the  superintendent  as  well  as 
his  associate  assistant;  and  so  a  coun- 
selor should  consult  his  Bishop.  Where 
the  counselor  or  the  assistant  is  trying 
to  get  ahead  of  his  chief,  the  spirit  of 
the  Lord  is  restrained  and  does  not 
operate  in  a  free  and  untrammeled  way. 

Our  presiding  quorums,  by  direction 
of  the  Lord,  usually  consist  of  three 
members.  There  is  a  presiding  officer 
and  there  are  two  others  who  in  turn 
represent  him  in  his  absence,  and  who 
are  ever  ready  to  help  him,  standing,  if 
they  have  the  spirit  of  their  office  with 
them,  like  Aaron  and  Hur  on  either 
side  of  Moses  to  hold  up  his  hands  and 
support  him  in  his  work,  not  to  pull  him 
down  or  push  him  back  that  they  may 
take  his  place.  On  a  recent  visit  to  one 
of  the  missions  of  the  Church  beyond 
the  organized  stakes,  I  found  that  that 
same  rules  of  rotation  was  regarded  as 
having  the  force  of  law  in  the  Sunday 
school.  If  it  so  happens  the  first  or  sec- 
ond assistant's  turn  came  on  a  day  of 
special  importance,  such  as  the  occasion 
of  a  conference,  the  superintendent  was 
really  superceded.  He  had  simply  to 
step  aside,  and  give  his  assistant  the 
full  control  of  affairs. 

I  believe  that  we  should  seek  to  dis- 
charge the  duties  of  our  place  with 
humble  pride,  and  with  proper  dignity. 
When  I  go  into  a  Sunday  school,  I 
want  to  see  the  superintendent  in  his 
place.  I  have  to  inquire  around  some- 
times to  find  who  he  is,  and  then  have 
to  search  around  to  find  where  he  is. 

Nevertheless,  whenever  he  deems  it 
wise  and  proper  whenever  by  any  con- 
sultation or  agreement  with  his  coun- 
selors or  assistants,  it  is  decided  that 
one  of  the  assistants  shall  actively 
represent  the  superintendent  on  any 
day,  all  well  and  good.  Do  that  as 
often  as  you  Ike,  my  brethren,  the  sup- 
erintendents; only  don't  think  that  you 
have  to  follow  the  course  as  a  rigid 
rule,  or  that  at  any  time  you  may  tem- 
porarily relinquish  the  responsibilities 
of  your  office. 

I  said  that  our  Sunday  schools  are 
splendidly  officered.    So  is  the  Church 


as  a  whole,  or  it  never  would  have  been 
able  to  survive  the  assaults  that  have 
been  made  upon  it.  I  have  no  fears 
even  when  I  consider  the  evil  schemes 
laid  by  the  enemy  against  us;  for  I 
know  what  kind  of  officers  we  have. 

From  the  President  of  the  Church 
down,  we  have  men  who,  in  general, 
are  discharging  their  duties  pleasingly, 
acceptably,  and  efficiently  before  the 
Lord;  and  as  I  realize  what  our  lead- 
ers have  to  stand  and  withstand  in 
this  day,  my  heart  is  full  of  prayer  for 
them,  and  I  wish  it  were  possible  for 
me  to  do  something  in  the  way  of  help- 
ing them,  something  more  than  I  seem 
able  to  do. 

The  remark  has  been  made  here  to- 
night that  each  succeeding  president 
of  the  Church  has  been  the  man  of  the 
time,  qualified  for  just  those  particular 
experiences  of  the  Church  at  the  time. 
I  add  my  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
that  statement;  I  know  that  this 
Church  has  been  and  is  being  led  by 
men  of  God,  men  who  are  able  to  com- 
mune with  the  powers  above  and  bring 
great  forces  into  action.  As  I  think 
that  of  them,  one  by  one,  I  think  of  our 
living'  Pronhet.  Seer  and  Revelator  to 
the  Church,  who  stands  at  the  head.  I 
thought  as  I  sat  here  tonight  of  Gold- 
smith's splendid  simile,  which  slightly 
changed,  is  strictly  applicable  to  our 
living  prophet: 

"Like  some  proud  cliff  that  lifts  its  no- 
ble form, 

Swells  from   the  vale    and  midway 

leaves  the  storm; 
Though  round  his  brow    the  rolling 

clouds  are  spread, 
Eternal  sunshine  rests  upon  his  head." 

We  have  men  who  rise  above  the 
clouds,  even  as  the  peaks  of  yon  ma- 
jestic range  sun  crowned  through 
winds  ar.d  clouds  begirt  them  lower 
down. 

Let  us  try  to  rise  above  the  storms 
of  petty  trouble.  Though  I  know  that 
there  are  some  weaklings  amcVigst  us, 
who  will  be  influenced  by  the  misrepre- 
sentations that  are  made,  I  know  also 
that  this  organization  is  charged  with 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


109 


guarding'  them,  -  watching  them,  doing 
all  that  can  be  done  to  prevent  them 
from  following  in  the  path  of  the 
traitor,  watching  over  them  till  they 
are  able  to  realize  for  themselves  what 
a  despicable  thing  it  is  to  be  a  traitor. 
I  have  confidence  in  my  people.  True, 
there  are  a  few  amongst  us  who  have 
bowed  the  knee  to  Baal,  but  the  great 
army  of  Israel  is  in  readiness  to  take 
the  field  whenever  the  word  shall  come. 
They  are  sending  forth  their  power,  in 
faith  and  prayer,  for  the  support  of 
those  who  are  charged  more  especial- 
ly with  the  direction  of  affairs,  be  it  the 
affairs  of  the  Church  as  a  whole,  of  a 
stake  or  of  a  ward,  or  of  a  Sunday 
school  or  any  other  organization. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  funeral  of 
the  Sunday  school  cause  has  been  un- 
avoidably postponed.  (Laughter.)  We 
have  been  invited,  again  and  again,  to 
attend  the  obsequies  of  the  Church,  for 
its  burial  has  been  repeatedly  an- 
nounced. I  never  had  much  interest 
in  that  kind  of  an  invitation;  for  I 
know  that  there  is  a  spirit  of  virility, 
of  life,  of  strength,  of  God-given  pow- 
er, in  the  organization  which  you  repre- 
sent, in  those  who  preside  over  it,  and 
throughout  the  Church  of  the  living 
God. 

There  is  strength  in  Israel.  The 
"Hope  of  Israel,"  of  whom  we  have 
been   singing,   may     well     be  called 
Israel's  certainty.  Amen. 

ASSISTANT  SUPERINTENDENT 
REYNOLDS 

then  announced  that  Brother  Ensign 
would  sing  a  sample  of  the  Japanese 
Sunday  school  hymns. 

Elder  H.  S.  Ensign  said: 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  re- 
joice if  you  could  join  with  me  in  sing- 
ing this  song.  However,  you  do  know 
it  very  well,  that  is,  in  English.  I  will 
sing  one  verse  of  our  Sunday  school 
scng.  "Love  at  Home."  In  translating 
this  into  Japanese  we  found  it  impos- 
sible to  use  the  music  as  we  have  it  in 
our  Sunday  school  song  book,  and  it 
has  been  necessary  for  us  to  write  new 
music  for  our  translation  as  it  is  in 


Japanese.  I  will  now  sing  the  first 
verse. 

Brother  Ensign  then  sang  in  the 
Japanese  language  a  stanza  of  "Love 
at  Home." 

GENERAL  SUPERINTENDENT, 
PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

"We  have  now  been  assembled  here  for 
about  two  :hours,  and  I  feel  that  it 
would  be  improper  for  us  to  prolong  our 
meeting. 

I  would  like,  however,  to  add  my  tes- 
timony to  all  the  testimonies  that  have- 
been  borne  this  evening,  but  more  par- 
ticularly to  endorse  and  emphasize  the 
remarks  made  by  Dr.  Talmage  in  rela- 
tion to  the  duty  of  presiding  officers. 
Of  course  we  should  follow  in  our  Mu- 
tual Improvement  associations  and  in 
our  quorum  capacities,  and  in  every 
way  where  we  have  organizations  in  the 
Church,  auxiliary  or  otherwise,  the  pat- 
tern, as  nearly  as  we  can,  that  the  Lord 
has  given  us.  A  Bishop  is  the  pre- 
siding officer  of  his  ward,  and  wher<: 
the  Bishop  is  in  the  ward,  his  counsel- 
ors and  those  who  are  members  of  his 
ward  are  subject  to  his  presidency.  He 
cannot  yield  it  up.  He  cannot  give  it 
to  another;  or,  if  he  does,  he  violates 
one  of  the  sacred  principles  of  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  priesthood.  He  may 
direct  his  counselors,  the  first  or  the 
second,  to  do  his  will,  to  carry  out  his 
wishes,  to  execute  his  desires,  or  his 
commands;  but  in  so  doing  the  counsel- 
or does  not  act  as  the  Bishop,  but  he 
acts  under  the  direction  of  the  presiding 
authority.  He  does  not  act  indepen- 
dently of  the  Bishop,  but  subordinate  to 
the  Bishop,  and  is  subject  entirely  to 
the  Bishop's  direction.  This  principle 
prevails,  or  should  prevail,  in  the  Sun- 
day school  organization  of  the  Church. 
We  can  commission  and  appoint;  that 
is,  those  who  preside,  can  call  upon 
their  aids  for  assistance,  they  can  di- 
rect them  to  accomplish  labors,  but  in 
every  instance  when  they  do,  it  is  by 
and  with  and  under  the  consent  of  the 
presiding  authority,  and  by  his  advice, 
but  not  independently.  Our  missions 
have  not  always  been  organized  strict- 
ly according  to  the  pattern  that  th? 


110 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Lord  has  given.  In  a  great  many  in- 
stances the  presiding  Elder  has  been 
the  sole  presiding  officer  of  the  mission. 

But  in  recent  years,  in  many  in- 
stances, it  has  been  deemed  wise,  not 
only  to  have  a  pesiding  Elder  in  the 
mission,  bu»t  .also  assistants  to  the 
president,  or  counselors,  that  they  may 
lender  him  such  assistance  and  coun- 
sel as  he  may  need.  In  all  these  things 
the  presiding  officer  is  the  head,  should 
be  regarded  in  his  place,  and  his  place 
ghould  be  held  sacred  in  the  minds  of 
his  associates.  And  no  man  possessing 
a  correct  understanding  of  the  spirit 
of  the  Gospel  and  of  the  authority  and 
law  of  the  holy  priesthood  will  attempt 
for  a  moment  to  run  before  his  fila 
leader  or  to  do  anything — assume  to 
do  anything  that  is  not  strictly  in  har- 
mony with  his  wish  and  the  authority 
that  belongs  to  him.  The  moment  a 
man  in  subordinate  position  begins  to 
usurp  the  authority  of  his  file  leader, 
that  moment  he  is  out  of  his  place,  and 
proves  by  his  conduct  that  he  does  not 
comprehend  his  duty,  that  he  is  not 
acting  in  the  line  of  his  calling,  and  is. 
a  dangerous  character.  He  will  set  bad 
examples,  he  will  mislead,  he  will  lead 
others  into  error  having  fallen  into  er- 
ror himself;  indeed,  he  is  in  error  the 
moment  he  acts  contrary  to  and  inde- 
pendent of  the  direction  of  his  presid- 
ing officer;  and  if  he  continues  in  that 
course  he  will  go  astray  entirely,  and 
those  who  follow  him  will  follow  him 
astray.  I  endorse  what  Brother  Tal- 
mage  has  said.  We  all  understand 
that  principle,  I  think,  and  I  would  like 
to  see  my  brethren  and  sisters  who  are 
connected  with  the  Sunday  school  work 
observe  it  strictly,  but  in  the  true 
spirit;  not  with  any  kind  of  stiff  for- 
mality or  set  ways,  but  in  the  true  spirit 
of  presidency,  lovingly  subject  to  divine 
authority,  the  authority  that  God  has 
instituted,  that  we  may  emulate,  the 
example  of  the  Son  Himself,  who  came 
to  earth,  and  while  He  possessed  ma- 
jestic power  to  heal  the  sick,  to  restore 
sight  to  the  blind,  hearing  to  the  deaf 
and  bring  the  dead  to  life,  and  to  ac- 
complish wonderful  tTiings,  walking  up- 
on the  waves,  stilling  the  storms, 
casting      out      devils,      and  multi- 


plying the  loaves-  and  fishes, 
by  which  he  fed  the  multi- 
tudes of  people,  yet  in  accomplishing 
all  this  he  declared,  over  and  over 
again,  this  great  principle,  that  He 
came  not  to  do  His  own  will  but  the 
will  of  Him  that  sent  Him,  recognizing 
in  every  feature  of  His  message  and 
ministry  in  the  world  that  God  was  at 
the  head,  and  that  He  did  nothing  of 
Himself,  but  only  that  which  the  Fath- 
er sent  Him  to  do.  Thus  He  was  act- 
ing under  the  authority  of  His  presi- 
dent or  file  leader — of  Him  who  sent 
Him  and  commissioned  Him  to  accom- 
plish the  work  He  was  sent  to  do.  Let 
us  follow  that  spirit  and  example,  and 
adopt  that  principle,  in  our  lives,  then 
we  shall  never  have  presiding  Elders 
and  officers  in  the  Church  at  logger- 
heads with  each  other,  contending  with 
each  other,  and  at  cross  purposes.  They 
will  always  be  one.  They  will  see 
eye  to  eye,  they  will  understand  bet- 
ter the  principles  of  divine  government, 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and  the 
promptings  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

When  I  came  into  the  house  this 
evening  and  saw  the  multitudes  of 
people  here,  I  felt  in  my  heart  what  a 
testimony  this  is  to  the  Lord  of  the 
integrity  of  this  people,  of  you,  rrfy 
brethren  and  sisters,  who  are  connect- 
ed with  the  Sunday  school  work,  and 
of  our  fathers  and  mothers  that  are 
here  with  us  tonight.  What  a  witness, 
what  evidence,  what  a  testimony  to 
the  Lord  of  your  integrity  to  and  love 
for  the  Church.  You  have  not  come 
here  out  of  mere  curiosity.  I  believe 
you  have  come  here  in  the  line  of  duty, 
you  are  here  because  you  are  engaged 
in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that  you  have 
a  deep  interest  in  it,  and  not  because 
there  is  some  curious  attraction  to 
draw  you  here.  I  congratulate  you  and 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  on  the  manifestation  of 
union,  love  and  devotion  to  duty  that  is 
evinced  here  tonight  by  the  presence  of 
this  vast  multitude  of  people.  I  thank 
you  for  your  presence,  for  the  interest 
that  you  have  taken  in  this  work,  and 
may  God  bless  you  and  continue  to 
preserve  your  lives,  your  faith  and 
your  love  for  the  truth,  from  this  time, 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Ill 


henceforth  and  forever,  which  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ASSISTANT    SUPT.    GEORGE  REY- 
NOLDS. 

I  take  the  liberty  as  the  treasurer 
of  the  union  to  ask  the  superintendents 
and  all  the  officers  to  remember  nickel 
day.  I  ask  you  to  attend  to  this  matter 
promptly  and  faithfully,  and  let  the  lo- 
cal treasurers  be  prompt  in  sending  the 
mcney  collected  to  the  stake  treasurer, 
and  that  those  officers  in  turn,  forward 


the  proper  amounts  to  the  general 
treasurer,  at  the  earliest  possible  date. 
We  ask  but  one  donation  in  the  year, 
and  its  value  is  much  increased  by 
early  remittance. 

Singing,  by  the  congregation,  "A 
Parting  Hymn." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Joseph  W. 
Summerhays. 

GEORGE   D.  PYPER, 

General  Secretary. 
F.  E.  BARKER, 

Stenographer. 


DESERET  NEWS 
"BOOK  STORE 


STATE  DEPOSITORY 
FOR  SCHOOL  BOOKS. 


School  Stationery,  Supplies. 
Kindergarten  and  Busy  Work  Materials. 

Largest  Stock  in  the  State. 
Lowest  Wholesale  Prices. 
Send  for  Price  Lists. 


'DESERET  ZKEWS  "BUILDING, 

6  Main  Street,  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


HISTORY  OF  CHURCH 

HAVE  YOU  SECURED  VOLS.  I  AND  II? 
VOLUME  III  IS  NOW  READY. 


Procure  Them  as  They  are  Issued, 


The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  written 
by  himself,  with  introduction  and  notes  by  B. 
H.  Roberts. 

Low  prices  have  been  fixed  by  the  First 
Presidency,  that  the  work  may  secure  the  widest 
possible  circulation. 

Cloth  Embossed,      -     per  vol.  $1 .50  Post  Paid 
Half  Morocco,  Gilt  Top,    "  2.50 
Half  Calf,  Gilt  Top,  "  2.50 

Full  Morocco  Gilt,,  "  4.00 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum 
and  Private  Library  should  have  it. 


DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE, 

6  MAIN  STREET,  -  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


