SEMI-ANNUAL 

conflict 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

SsphmbsUv  30,  jtmcL 
OdobtJL  1atuL2,  1955 


With  Report  of  Discourses 


***** 


Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-sixth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-sixth  Semi- 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Friday,  September  30,  1955,  and 
Saturday  and  Sunday,  October  1  and  2, 
1955. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  eve- 
ning, October  1,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL,  the  following  stations  made  avail- 
able to  their  listening  or  viewing  audi- 
ences one  or  more  of  the  six  general 
sessions  * 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KVEL 
at  Vernal,  KVNU  at  Logan,  KSUB  at 
Cedar  City. 

In  Idaho:  KID  and  KID-TV  at  Idaho 
Falls,  KRXK  at  Rexburg,  KEEP  and 
KLIX-TV  at  Twin  Falls,  KFXD  at 
Nampa,  KBOI  and  KBOI-TV  at  Boise, 
KBAR  at  Burley,  KWIK  at  Pocatello. 

In  California:  KEEN  at  San  Jose, 
KSRO  at  Santa  Rosa,  KNXT-TV  at 
Los  Angeles,  KFMB-TV  at  San  Diego, 
KGO-TV  at  San  Francisco,  KOVR-TV 
at  Stockton,  and  KBLA  at  North  Holly- 
wood. 

In  Arizona:  KOLD  at  Yuma,  KOOL- 
TV  at  Phoenix,  KTYL  at  Mesa. 

In  Colorado:  KEXO  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion, KLZ-TV  at  Denver. 

In  Nevada:  KELY  at  Ely,  KLAS 
and  KLAS-TV  at  Las  Vegas. 

In  Oregon:  KWRC  at  Pendleton, 
KOIN-TV  at  Portland. 

In  Washington:  KTNT  and  KTNT- 
TV  at  Tacoma,  KXLY-TV  at  Spokane, 
KIMA-TV  at  Yakima,  KEPR-TV  at 
Pasco. 

In  Texas:  KTSM  at  El  Paso. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 


ence were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  on  Temple  Square,  in  Barratt  Hall 
(60  North  Main  Street),  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system  and  by  television. 
Thousands,  in  addition,  listened  to  the 
services  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  by 
means  of  amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  were  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall,  over 
public  address  systems,  and  by  direct 
wire  over  a  public  address  system  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  in  other  as- 
semblies in  Utah,  Idaho,  Colorado, 
Washington,  Oregon,  Arizona,  Wyo- 
ming, Nevada,  and  California. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  includ- 
ing the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broad- 
casting Company's  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  Organ  broadcast  is  also  included 
in  this  record. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards,  and  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Henry  D.  Moyle, 
Delbert  L.  Stapley,  Marion  G.  Romney, 
LeGrand  Richards,  Adam  S.  Bennion, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  and  George  Q.  Mor- 
ris. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young, 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Hugh  B.  Brown,  and 
Sterling  W.  Sill. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  Seymour  Dilworth 
Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  Bruce  R. 
McConkie,  and  Marion  Duff  Hanks. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A.  William 
Lund,  Assistant. 


Members  of  the  General  Welfare 
Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  Church  Board  of  Educa- 
tion and  Administrator  Church  Board 
of  Education,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary 
Instructors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  General, 
Stake  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  opening  session  of  the  Confer- 
ence convened  Friday  morning,  Septem- 
ber 30,  1955  at  10  o'clock,  with  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  presiding  and 
conducting  the  services. 

The  large  Tabernacle  auditorium  and 
galleries  were  filled  with  people,  the 
Assembly  Hall  just  south  of  the  Taber- 
nacle was  also  occupied  by  Saints  who 
had  come  from  far  and  near,  as  was 
also  Barratt  Hall  (60  North  Main 
Street),  provision  having  been  made  for 
the  overflow  crowds  to  hear  and  see 
the  services  of  the  various  Conference 
sessions  by  means  of  television.  In 
addition,  many  others  assembled  on  the 
Tabernacle  grounds  where  they  lis- 
tened to  the  Conference  proceedings  by 
means  of  amplifiers  that  had  been  in- 
stalled for  the  accommodation  of  the 
listening  audience  on  the  grounds. 

The  choral  singing  for  this  session 
was  furnished  by  the  German-Speaking 
L.D.S.  Organization  Choir,  Elder  Heinz 
Rimmasch,  Conductor.  Frank  W.  Asper 
was  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the 
126th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah. 

I  wish  to  make  an  announcement  at 
this  time  of  a  special  meeting  to  be 
held  on  the  fourth  floor  of  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple  Sunday  afternoon,  October 
2nd,  at  4:45  o'clock — a  meeting  of  Tem- 
ple Presidencies  with  the  General  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church.  We  announce 
that  now  so  that  those  who  are  not 
here  may  have  an  opportunity  to  be 
present. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  all 
the  General  Authorities  are  in  at- 
tendance at  this  session,  excepting  prob- 
ably Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  who  was 
called  to  Washington  to  a  special  meet- 
ing of  the  Cabinet  this  morning.  He 
will  return  sometime  tomorrow  and  be 


with  us  at  some  of  the  sessions  of  the 
Conference. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  Clerk  of  the 
Conference. 

These  services,  and  all  General  Ses- 
sions of  the  Conference,  will  be  broad- 
cast in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Bar- 
ratt Hall,  over  a  public  address  system 
and  by  television. 

The  services  this  morning  are  also 
being  televised  over  KSL-TV,  Channel 
5,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL 
over  14  radio  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho, 
Nevada,  Oregon,  Arizona,  and  Cali- 
fornia. Special  television  cable  installa- 
tion will  be  shown  in  four  chapels  in 
Pocatello,  Idaho.  The  names  of  these 
stations  have  already  been  announced 
to  the  radio  audience. 

We  desire  to  express  our  appreciation 
to  these  various  television  and  radio 
stations  for  their  courtesy  in  making 
available  their  time  and  facilities  for 
these  broadcasts. 

To  the  audience  seated  here  in  the 
Tabernacle  and  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
to  the  thousands  listening  in  over  the 
radio,  the  First  Presidency  and  General 
Authorities  extend  a  most  hearty  wel- 
come, and  pray  that  we  may  receive 
encouragement  and  inspiration  during 
our  attendance  at  this  great  Conference 
of  the  Church. 

We  acknowledge  the  presence  of  the 
following  distinguished  visitors  and 
others  who  hold  prominent  positions  in 
educational  circles  and  in  the  State.  We 
are  not  sure  that  we  have  been  able  to 
observe  all  who  are  present,  but  we 
mention  the  following:  Senator  Arthur 
V.  Watkins;  United  States  Representa- 
tives, Honorable  William  A.  Dawson 
and  Honorable  H.  Aldous  Dixon;  Sec- 
retary of  State  LaMont  Toronto;  Presi- 
dent A.  Ray  Olpin  of  the  University  of 
Utah;  Dr.  William  P.  Miller  of  Weber 
College;  President  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 
of  the  Brigham  Young  University,  and 
probably  others.  If  we  have  omitted 
you,  you  know  that  our  eyesight  is  get- 
ting dim,  and  also  be  assured  that  you 
are  welcome  with  these  whom  I  have 
named. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  September  30 

To  all  we  extend  a  hearty  welcome 
and  express  satisfaction  and  pleasure  in 
your  presence,  and  especially  for  your 
cooperative  spirit  in  these  sessions. 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  ses- 
sion will  be  furnished  by  the  German 
Speaking  Church  Organization  Choir, 
with  Elder  Heinz  Rimmasch  conduct- 
ing, and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the 
German  Speaking  Church  Organization 
Choir  singing,  "Guide  Us,  O  Thou 
Great  Jehovah,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Rimmasch. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Marden  D.  Pearson,  president  of 
the  Sevier  Stake. 


First  Day 

The  German-Speaking  L.D.S.  Or- 
ganization Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Guide 
Us,  O  Thou  Great  Jehovah." 

Elder  Marden  D.  Pearson,  President 
of  the  Sevier  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
President  Marden  D.  Pearson,  president 
of  the  Sevier  Stake. 

The  German  Speaking  Church  Or- 
ganization Choir  will  now  sing,  "Christ 
is  Risen,"  conducted  by  Elder  Heinz 
Rimmasch. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Christ  Is 
Risen." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


I 


■^brethren  and  sisters:  Being 
jfcjj  keenly  sensitive  of  the  great 
BMFSni  responsibility  of  this  rao- 
■PFjBjl  merit,  I  crave  an  interest  in 
TaflffMraj  your  sympathetic  attention 
^ ^  and  especially  in  your  faith 
and  prayers. 

My  feelings  this  morning  can  be  ex- 
pressed in  one  word — gratitude.  I  should 
like  to  quote  from  the  Psalmist: 

"O  give  thanks  unto  the  Lord;  call 
upon  his  name:  make  known  his  deeds 
among  the  people. 

"Sing  unto  him,  sing  psalms  unto 
him:  talk  ye  of  all  his  wondrous  works." 
(Psalm  105:1-2.) 

Giving  thanks  means  in  this  case,  I 
am  sure,  a  fulness  of  thanks,  which  is 
the  outward  expression  of  a  grateful 
feeling.  Gratitude  is  the  feeling  itself. 
That  is  in  the  heart.  Thankfulness  is 
measured  by  the  number  of  words; 
gratitude  is  measured  by  the  nature  of 
our  actions.  Thankfulness  is  the  be- 
ginning of  gratitude;  gratitude  the  com- 
pletion of  thankfulness.  "Gratitude  is 
the  heart's  recognition  of  kindness  that 
the  lips  cannot  repay." 

I  feel  grateful  and  happy  this  morn- 
ing for  so  many  evidences  of  the  good- 
ness of  the  Lord  that  I  wish  I  could 
strike  a  note  of  optimism  that  would 
reverberate  to  the  uttermost  parts  of  the 
Church.  In  the  words  of  Frank  L. 
Stanton:  i 


"This  world  o'  God's  is  brighter 
Than  we  ever  dream  or  know; 
Its  burdens  growin'  lighter — 
An'  it's  Love  that  makes  'em  so! 
An'  I'm  thankful  that  I'm  livin' 
Where  Love's  blessedness  I  see, 
'Neath  a  Heaven  that's  forgivin' 
Where  the  bells  ring  'Home'  to  me!" 

I  know  that  since  our  conference  last 
April,  many  of  us  have  had  difficulties, 
disappointments,  and  failures  where  we 
wanted  so  much  to  succeed;  wounded 
feelings  from  barbed  tongues;  sickness; 
some  of  us  have  passed  through  the 
experience  of  death  of  loved  ones;  but 
these  are  all  incidents  in  life  which, 
when  not  understood,  may  harrow  our 
feelings  until  we  are  crus  hed. 

I  am  aware,  too,  that  there  have  been 
jealousies,  petty  intrigues,  meannesses, 
misunderstandings  on  occasions,  and 
that  men  and  women,  magnifying  these 
weaknesses  of  human  nature,  have  made 
themselves  miserable  and  perhaps  scat- 
tered gloom  instead  of  sunshine  into 
the  hearts  of  their  associates. 

But  notwithstanding  these  disagree- 
able, discouraging  facts,  I  am  sure  that 
we  have  cause  this  morning  to  rise 
above  petty  things  and,  as  the  Psalmist 
says,  make  known  among  the  people 
the  Lord's  deeds,  which  are  always  good 
and  beautiful.  Paraphrasing  a  familiar 
song,  let  us,  "Count  our  many  bless- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


ings;  name  them  one  by  one,  and  it 
will  surprise  us  what  the  Lord  has 
done." 

There  are  so  many  things  for  which 
we  should  be  thankful,  time  will  not 
permit  our  even  naming  them,  but  I 
should  like  to  call  your  attention  at 
least  to  four  or  five: 

First:  loyalty  and  devotion  of  the 
presiding  priesthood  of  the  Church. 

Second:  the  vitality  and  growth  of  the 
Church. 

Third:  the  success  of  the  choir  on  its 
recent  tour  in  Europe. 

Fourth:  the  dedication  of  the  temple. 

Fifth:  the  happiness  we  may  secure  in 
obedience  to  the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

I  haven't  words  to  express  my  grati- 
tude for  the  support  and  loyalty  of 
President  Richards  and  President  Clark 
and  the  work  they  have  carried  on  at 
the  office  and  throughout  the  Church. 
I  make  this  public  expression  of  my 
appreciation  and  gratitude,  which  ap- 
plies also  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
the  Assistants,  the  Seventy,  the  Bishop- 
ric, and  the  Patriarch,  and  to  all  those 
who  preside  in  stakes  and  wards  and 
quorums  and  organizations,  in  the  presi- 
dencies of  missions  throughout  the 
world.  Nobody  who  has  not  come  in 
contact  with  these  men  and  women  can 
realize  their  loyalty,  their  energy,  and 
devotion.  I  wish  to  express,  too,  appre- 
ciation for  the  co-operation  of  the  civic 
authorities  in  our  state  and  in  nations, 
in  the  South  Pacific,  in  Europe,  and 
wherever  the  missions  of  the  Church 
are  operating.  I  know  these  are  mere 
words,  but  they  express  a  true  feeling 
of  gratitude.  God  bless  them  wherever 
they  are. 

Activity  and  Growth  of  the  Church 

Now  as  to  the  activity  and  growth  of 
the  Church,  that  is  shown  in  many 
ways: 

First,  in  the  increase  in  membership. 
You  will  be  pleased  to  know  that  since 
we  met  last  October,  over  73,500  people 
have  joined  the  Church;  two  new  mis- 
sions have  been  organized — the  South 
Australian  Mission,  attended  by  Elder 
Marion  G.  Romney,  who  was  accom- 
panied by  Sister  Romney;  and  the 
Southern  Far  East  Mission  (the  Japa- 
nese Mission  changed  to  the  Northern 


Far  East  Mission)  where  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  officiated,  ac- 
companied by  Sister  Smith,  and  by 
Brother  Herald  Grant  Heaton,  who  is 
president  of  the  Southern  Far  East  Mis- 
sion— a  great  opportunity — the  ground 
laid  for  that  division  by  Elder  Harold 
B.  Lee  and  Sister  Lee  a  few  months 
ago. 

Other  missions  are  demanding  similar 
attention. 

The  activity  and  vitality  of  the 
Church  are  shown  also  in  the  increase 
in  tithing.  Last  year  the  tithing  was 
the  largest  we  have  ever  had,  and  this 
year  up  to  September,  it  is  10.7  percent 
higher  than  last.  This  is  a  very  signifi- 
cant index  to  the  service,  loyalty,  and 
spirituality  of  the  members  of  the 
Church.  We  are  grateful  to  you  for 
your  devotion.  You  have  shown  in  in- 
creased attendance  at  sacrament  meet- 
ings that  devotion.  I  sincerely  hope 
that  I  may  report  an  improvement  in 
these  sacrament  meetings  in  order  and 
reverence. 

As  members  of  the  Church  in  our 
worshiping  assemblies,  we  should  im- 
prove I  think,  in  this  regard.  Presiding 
authorities  in  stake,  ward,  and  quorum 
meetings,  and  especially  teachers  in 
classes,  should  make  special  effort  to 
maintain  better  order  and  more  rever- 
ence during  hours  of  worship  and  of 
study.  Less  talking  behind  the  pulpit 
will  have  a  salutary  effect  upon  those 
who  face  it.  By  example  and  precept 
children  should  be  impressed  with  the 
inappropriateness  of  confusion  and  dis- 
order in  a  worshiping  congregation. 
They  should  be  impressed  in  childhood, 
and  have  it  emphasized  in  youth,  that 
it  is  disrespectful  to  talk  or  even  to 
whisper  during  a  sermon,  and  that  it 
is  the  height  of  rudeness  to  leave  a 
worshiping  assembly  before  dismissal. 

Courtesy,  respect,  deference,  and  kind 
consideration  are  all  pleasing  attributes 
that  may  be  shown  on  all  occasions, 
and  wherever  manifested  contribute  to 
the  pleasure  and  sweetness  of  human 
relations. 

If  there  were  more  reverence  in  hu- 
man hearts,  there  would  be  less  room 
for  sin  and  sorrow  and  more  increased 
capacity  for  joy  and  gladness.  To  make 
more  cherished,  more  adaptable,  more 
attractive,  this  gem  among  brilliant  vir- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  September  30 

tues  is  a  project  worthy  of  the  most 
united  and  prayerful  efforts  of  every 
officer,  every  parent,  and  every  member 
of  the  Church. 

Successful  Tour  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Another  reason  for  gratitude  and  joy 
this  morning  is  the  recent  successful 
tour  of  the  choir  in  Europe. 

The  reception  given  them  at  Green- 
ock, Scotland,  when  the  Provost,  Mr. 
John  Porter,  and  the  Bagpipe  Band  of 
that  city,  gathered  on  the  wharf,  took 
a  tug  out  even  to  the  ship,  and  returned 
with  the  second  group  of  singers,  was 
almost  a  royal  welcome.  I  cannot  re- 
frain from  mentioning  that,  because 
fifty-eight  years  before,  I  stood  on  the 
same  wharf  and  saw  emigrants,  return- 
ing missionaries  take  the  tugboat  out 
to  the  ocean  liner.  I  contrasted  our 
feelings  and  the  attitude  of  the  people 
fifty-eight  years  ago  with  this  reception 
on  that  morning. 

Then  in  the  afternoon,  it  was  re- 
peated by  the  Lord  Provost  of  Glasgow 
and  his  Lady,  Lord  and  Lady  Andrew 
Hood.  As  he  stated,  in  his  extemporane- 
ous speech  of  welcome — as  he  laid  aside 
his  prepared  speech — this  is  probably 
the  first  time  an  organized  group  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  has  been  officially  received  in 
Scotland.  That  was  Friday,  August  19, 
1955. 

I  shall  let  others  who  were  constantly 
with  the  choir  report  their  achieve- 
ments. Sister  McKay  and  our  party  had 
the  opportunity  to  attend  only  four  con- 
certs— the  one  held  in  Kelvin  Hall, 
Glasgow;  in  Royal  Albert  Hall,  London; 
the  Fest  Hall  in  Bern,  Switzerland;  and 
in  Tonhalle  in  Zurich,  Switzerland. 

The  service  rendered  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  on  their  tour  brought  credit 
to  our  state,  and  the  Church,  and  to 
our  country  as  perhaps  no  other  or- 
ganization has  been  able  to  do. 

To  transport  379  members  of  a  sing- 
ing group  with  their  escorts,  making  a 
company  of  approximately  600,  was  a 
herculean  task.  The  difficulties  of 
transportation  and  hotel  accommoda- 
tions had  really  just  begun  when  they 
landed  at  Greenock.  But  their  tour,  as 
you  all  know,  proved  to  be  successful 
beyond  our  fondest  hopes.  At  every 
concert  they   were  given  an  ovation. 


First  Day 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  especially,  who 
gave  the  spoken  word,  Elder.  Lester  F. 
Hewlett,  president  of  the  choir,  the  di- 
rectors, the  organists,  and  every  member 
of  the  choir  deserve  the  highest  praise. 
The  dignified  attitude  of  the  group  as 
a  whole,  their  comely  deportment,  their 
evident  sincerity  of  purpose,  their  re- 
sponsiveness, won  the  audience  even 
before  they  started  to  sing.  u;. 

Mr.  Edmund  J.  Pendleton,  music  critic 
of  the  New  York  Herald  Tribune  of 
Paris,  France,  wrote  as  follows:  (I  will 
read  this  one  because  I  think  it  has  not 
been  published.) 

"The  simplicity  of  attitude  and  the 
evident  sincerity  on  the  part  of  every 
participant  from  the  last  chorister  to 
the  conductor,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  is 
moving  to  behold.  The  wealth  and 
health  of  the  choir's  sonority,  and  its 
freely  consented  discipline,  achieved  re- 
sults difficult  to  duplicate  without  a 
similar  faith  in  a  job  to  be  done.  The 
whole  program  was  sung  by  heart,  in 
the  most  literal  sense. 

"The  technical  side  of  the  perform- 
ance— balance,  tone  quality,  attack, 
shading,  diction — was  thoroughly  satis- 
factory, and  in  certain  strong  moments 
thrilling." 

It  gives  me  great  pleasure,  therefore, 
to  make  public  acknowledgment  and  ex- 
press the  thankfulness  of  a  grateful  heart 
to  Elder  W.  Jack  Thomas  and  his  faith- 
ful wife,  Emma,  who  first  suggested  a 
European  tour  and  worked  so  diligently 
and  enthusiastically  in  soliciting  funds, 
and  who  labored  so  faithfully  for 
months  in  looking  after  the  transporta- 
tion and  physical  comforts  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  choir;  also  to  the  advisory 
committee — Elders  Mark  E.  Petersen, 
Adam  S.  Bennion,  LeGrand  Richards, 
who  proved  themselves  masters  of  de- 
tails, the  application  of  which  con- 
tributed much  to  the  success  of  the  tour. 

To  President  Paul  C.  Child,  who  with 
Mr.  Charles  D.  DeKock,  manager  of  the 
Foreign  Escorted  Tours  Department, 
New  York  City,  and  Mr.  Robert  H. 
Smith,  also  representing  the  Foreign  Es- 
corted Tours  Department  of  New  York, 
had  complete  charge  of  all  the.  trans- 
portation problems  as  soon  as  the  choir 
landed  at  Greenock,  Scotland,  until 
the  final  concert  held  in  the  Palais 
de  Chaillot  Theater,  Saturday  night, 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


7 


September  17,  we  wish  to  express  deep 
appreciation. 

These  men,  with  Elder  Richard  L. 
Evans,  worked  night  and  day  to  make 
the  trip  successful.  In  London,  for  ex- 
ample, when  the  tour  managers  were 
selling  round-trip  tickets  to  the  ground- 
breaking ceremonies  in  Newchapel  near 
London,  at  a  cost  of  two  dollars  each, 
Mr.  DeKock  worried  all  night  about  it 
and  the  next  morning  said  to  Brother 
Child:  "This  is  a  very  important  event, 
and  many  people  are  coming  from  all 
over  Great  Britain  and  various  other 
countries  to  attend;  it  would  be  a  shame 
if  members  of  the  choir  were  not  pres- 
ent." (That  was  not  scheduled,  you  see, 
originally.)  "I  am  going  to  furnish  the 
transportation  free  of  charge  to  every- 
one who  wishes  to  attend  those  serv- 
ices." ! 

After  he  heard  the  choir  concert  in 
Manchester,  England,  the  same  gentle- 
man said:  "Paul,  I  took  this  job  as  an 
objective  thing;  I  want  you  to  know  from 
this  hour  on  it  is  subjective.  I  have 
never  been  so  lifted  up  in  all  my  life! 
I  am  going  to  give  everything  I  have  to 
the  success  of  this  tour." 

Mr.  Robert  R.  Mullen  who  handled 
the  over-all  publicity  of  the  choir  tour 
and  worked  in  conjunction  with  the 
J.  Walter  Thompson  Company  in  Eu- 
rope, told  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  that 
his  company  was  so  much  in  sympathy 
with  the  over-all  purpose  of  the  choir 
tour  that  they  did  all  of  their  work  at 
cost,  without  charging  any  agency  com- 
mission such  as  is  usually  the  case. 

To  all  individuals  and  business  firms 
who  contributed  their  money  towards 
paying  the  expenses  of  this  eventful 
tour,  we  now  publicly  express  our  grati- 
tude. I  have  no  hesitancy  in  saying  that 
from  the  standpoint  of  good  will,  in 
fostering  better  understanding  between 
our  Church,  our  state,  our  country,  and 
the  European  nations  visited,  money  has 
never  been  spent  more  profitably. 

Of  course,  there  were  difficulties  and 
inconveniences,  even  tragedies,  but  these 
are  incident  to  any  great  undertaking, 
and  especially  one  of  such  herculean 
proportions  as  transporting  six  hundred 
people  over  Europe  in  thirty  days. 

To  the  doctors  who  looked  after  the 
health  of  the  choir  members  and  to  all 


others  who  assisted  in  any  way  in  mak- 
ing this  tour  successful,  we  now  express 
our  thanks  and  deep  appreciation. 

Dedication  of  the  Swiss  Temple 

Another  cause  for  rejoicing  this  morn- 
ing (and  I  tell  you  it  is  a  most  signifi- 
cant one  as  an  event  in  the  history  of 
the  Church)  is  the  dedication  of  the 
first  temple  on  European  soil,  Sunday, 
September  11,  1955,  with  two  sessions 
that  day,  and  two  each  succeeding  day 
until  Thursday,  September  15.  The 
Tabernacle  Choir  was  present  and  fur- 
nished the  music,  with  Sister  Ewan 
Harbrecht  as  soloist.  The  choir  and 
Sister  Harbrecht  never  sang  more  feel- 
ingly than  they  did  at  both  the  morn- 
ing and  afternoon  sessions  of  the  first 
day  of  the  dedication.  I  wish  all  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  might  have  felt  the 
intensity  of  the  spiritual  services  on  that 
memorable  occasion. 

When  the  time  came  to  welcome  the 
hundreds  who  crowded  the  rooms  at 
the  first  session,  it  seemed  proper  to  ex- 
press also  a  welcome  to  an  unseen,  but 
seemingly  real  audience,  among  whom 
were  possibly  former  presidents  and 
apostles  of  the  Church,  probably  headed 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  to  whom 
was,  revealed  the  essential  ordinances 
of  baptism  for  those  who  died  without 
having  heard  the  gospel;  also  his 
nephew,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who 
prophesied  forty-nine  years  ago  in  the 
city  of  Bern  that  "temples  would  be 
built  in  divers  countries  of  the  world." 
Among  them,  too,  I  thought  surely  might 
be  numbered  Elder  Stayner  Richards 
who  was  president  of  the  British  Mission 
at  the  time  those  two  temple  sites  in 
Europe  were  chosen.  With  these  dis- 
tinguished leaders  we  thought,  too,  there 
might  have  been  departed  loved  ones 
whom  "we  could  not  see,  but  whose 
presence  we  felt."  At  any  rate,  we  all 
agreed  that  the  veil  between  those  who 
participated  in  those  exercises  and  loved 
ones  who  had  gone  before  seemed  very 
thin. 

Again,  we  take  opportunity  to  express 
publicly  appreciation  to  the  architects, 
contractors,  technicians,  and  workers 
who  labored  long  and  faithfully  to  have 
the  temple  completed  for  dedication  on 
that  day.  Two  nights  before  that  serv- 
ice, workmen  labored  all  night  long  and 


8  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  September  30 

expressed  themselves  as  doing  it  will- 
ingly. 

It  had  been  announced  that  regular 
ordinance  work  would  not  commence 
until  Monday  morning,  September  18, 
but  through  the  indefatigable  efforts  of 
Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  assisted  by 
Elder  Paul  Evans  and  others,  it  was 
reported  that  a  company  might  be  ac- 
commodated on  the  morning  of  the  16th 
following  the  final  dedicatory  service 
Thursday  night. 

Accordingly,  two  sessions  were  sched- 
uled for  German-speaking  people — one 
at  7  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  the 
other  at  1  p.m.  But  members  from  the 
French  Mission  said,  "the  choir  will 
be  in  Paris  Saturday  night,  and  if,  while 
we  are  present  here,  we  could  go  through 
the  temple  and  get  home  for  that,  we 
should  appreciate  it."  Accordingly,  we 
gave  them  5:00  p.m.  Friday,  as  their 
opportunity  to  go  through  the  temple. 

Then  came  President  Eben  R.  T. 
Blomquist,  representing  the  Swedish 
people,  who  said,  "if  we  could  come  at 
9:00  o'clock  at  night,  we  would  be  will- 
ing to  wait  over  so  that  we  could  re- 
turn Saturday  in  accordance  with  our 
schedule."  So  instead  of  two  sessions, 
we  granted  four,  resulting  in  continual 
sessions  from  seven  o'clock  Friday  morn- 
ing until  seven  o'clock  Saturday  night. 

Members  from  the  Netherlands  Mis- 
sion had  been  invited  to  come  Saturday 
morning  at  7:30.  They  were  there,  and 
the  workers  who  had  worked  all  night, 
who  were  necessary  to  guide  the  workers 
from  Holland,  continued  on  duty. 

The  faithful  members  endured  the 
inconveniences  gladly  because  the  privi- 
lege of  going  through  the  temple  at  that 
time  was  a  great  accommodation  to 
them. 

We  here  express  appreciation  to  Presi- 
dent William  F.  Perschon,  President 
Samuel  E.  Bringhurst,  Elder  Edward  O. 
Anderson,  Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley, 
Elder  Paul  Evans,  and  all  the  mission- 
aries and  workers  who  rendered  such 
unselfish  service  to  the  fortunate  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  who  were  privileged 
to  go  through  the  first  temple  in  Europe. 

The  Gospel  Plan  the  Greatest  of  All 
Blessings 

Truly,  it  is  fitting  to  give  thanks  to 
the  Lord  and  to  talk  of  all  his  wondrous 


First  Day 

work;  and  in  doing  so,  we  must  include 
the  greatest  of  all  of  his  blessings — 
the  sending  of  his  Only  Begotten  Son  to 
give  to  all  our  Father's  children  redemp- 
tion, and  to  those  who  will  listen  and 
obey  the  gospel,  salvation  and  exalta- 
tion in  the  kingdom  of  our  Father. 
Obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel brings  happiness,  and  happiness  is 
what  all  men  seek.  Indeed,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  said  that  "Happiness  is 
the  object  and  design  of  our  existence, 
and  will  be  the  end  thereof" — and  this 
is  important — "if  we  pursue  the  path 
that  leads  to  it."  As  an  end  in  itself, 
happiness  is  never  found;  it  comes  inci- 
dentally. Note:  "It  will  be  the  end 
thereof  if  we  follow  the  path  that  leads 
to  it,  and  this  path  is  virtue,  uprightness, 
faithfulness,  holiness,  and  keeping  all 
the  commandments  of  God."  (Teach- 
ings of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  pp. 
255-256.)  "Happiness  consists  not  of 
having,  but  of  being — not  of  possessing, 
but  of  enjoying.  It  is  a  warm  glow  of 
the  heart  at  peace  with  itself.  A  martyr 
at  the  stake  may  have  happiness  that  a 
king  on  his  throne  might  envy.  Man 
is  the  creator  of  his  own  happiness.  It 
is  the  aroma  of  life  lived  in  harmony 
with  high  ideals.  For  what  a  man  has 
he  may  be  dependent  upon  others;  what 
he  is  rests  with  him  alone.  What  he 
obtains  in  life  is  but  acquisition;  what 
he  attains  is  true  growth." 

William  George  Jordan  continues: 
"The  basis  of  happiness  is  the  love  of 
something  outside  itself.  Search  every 
instance  of  happiness  in  the  world,  and 
you  will  find,  when  all  the  incidental 
features  are  eliminated,  there  is  always 
the  constant,  unchangeable  element  of 
love — love  of  parent  for  child;  love  of 
man  and  woman  for  each  other  (hus- 
band and  wife) ;  love  of  humanity  in 
some  form,  or  a  great  life  work  into 
which  the  individual  throws  all  his 
energies. 

"Happiness  is  the  voice  of  optimism, 
of  faith,  of  simple,  steadfast  love,"  in- 
terest in  some  great  cause,  that  is  worthy 
of  a  life's  work.  My  fellow  workers: 
What  is  the  "Great  cause  worthy  of 
our  life's  work?"  The  restored  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ!  Is  there  anything  greater 
in  all  the  world? 

My  heart  rejoices  that  we  have  the 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


9 


privilege  of  working  together  to  estab- 
lish through  that  Church  the  kingdom 
of  God  on  earth. 

May  our  great  life's  work  be  the 
promulgation  of  the  restored  gospel,  that 
God's  purposes  may  be  consummated 
for  the  peace  and  happiness  of  man- 


kind, I  humbly  pray  this  morning,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  will  be  our 
next  speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


'v    beloved  brethren  and 
sisters: 

1  should  like  to  echo 
from  the  depths  of  my 
heart  this  morning,  that 
— '  gratitude  of  which  Presi- 
dent McKay  has  so  beautifully  and 
eloquently   spoken;    gratitude    to  my 
Father  in  heaven  for  so  much  beyond 
my  ability  to  mention,  for  the  onward 
march  of  his  Church  and  kingdom,  for 
his  goodness  in  the  lives  of  all  of  us. 

At  this  time  I  should  like  to  express 
gratitude  for  Sister  Evans  and  me  for 
the  privilege  we  have  had  of  being 
witnesses  of  some  of  those  glorious  and 
significant  events  of  which  President 
McKay  has  spoken;  and  gratitude  for 
the  leadership  of  President  McKay  and 
his  Counselors,  and  for  the  association 
of  these,  my  brethren,  and  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters. 

We  watched  the  President  under  a 
wide  variety  of  conditions  in  a  number 
of  countries  of  Europe,  in  several  of 
the  great  cities  of  the  continent  and  of 
Great  Britain,  exchanging  greetings 
with  public  officials,  meeting  in  press 
conferences,  attending  the  concerts,  and 
participating  in  public  receptions.  He 
was  seemingly  indefatigable,  always 
gracious,  always  an  effective  and  won- 
derful representative  of  this  Church  and 
people;  not  sparing  himself,  traveling 
many  hours  and  many  miles  sometimes 
to  attend  one  of  the  choir  concerts 
under  stormy  and  difficult  conditions, 
getting  back  to  his  hotel  in  the  very 
early  hours  of  the  morning. 

I  should  like  to  echo  his  gratitude  for 
the  success  of  this  tour. 

I  think  a  public  confession  here  would 
not  be  inappropriate:  Some  of  us,  many 
of  us,  maybe  most  of  us,  had  great  ap- 
prehension and  some  reservations  con- 


cerning the  choir's  tour.  I  must  confess 
humbly,  that  some  of  us  might  have 
postponed  it,  and  perhaps  would  have 
looked  again  at  the  commitment  to  do 
it.  I  must  confess  that  as  the  two  trains 
pulled  us  out  of  Salt  Lake  City  on  the 
evening  of  August  10,  I  felt,  if  not  like 
a  lamb  going  to  the  slaughter,  at  least 
like  one  that  was  going  to  be  shorn. 
But  the  President  of  the  Church  had 
committed  us  to  it,  and  so  we  went. 
(I  should  hesitate  to  say  this  publicly, 
but  when  he  sets  a  deadline,  the  seem- 
ingly impossible  happens,  as  witness  the 
dedication  of  the  Swiss  Temple.  When 
you  get  a  mixture  of  the  quiet,  purpose- 
ful stubbornness  of  the  Scots  and  the 
Welsh,  along  with  the  courage  and 
conviction  of  a  prophetic  calling,  you 
have  a  combination  which,  once  having 
been  committed  to  a  course  or  a  great 
cause,  is  something  to  be  reckoned 
with!) 

Blessedly  and  providentially,  by  the 
combined  services  of  a  great  number  of 
able  and  devoted  people,  many  of  whom 
the  President  has  mentioned,  and  by 
the  hand  of  Providence,  we  had  a  great 
venture  in  understanding,  as  we  so 
characterized  it  before  our  European 
audiences. 

I  am  glad  that  the  President  paid 
tribute  to  all  of  those  to  whom  he  paid 
tribute  and  appreciation  this  morning. 
There  are  many  others,  who  could 
and  should  be  mentioned,  and  perhaps 
that  can  be  done  at  another  time  and 
place. 

Now,  to  some  of  the  highlights, 
briefly:  The  President  has  mentioned 
the  reception  at  Greenock,  Scotland, 
by  the  Provost  of  the  city  and  the  Bag- 
pipe Corps,  and  the  reception  of  the 
entire  choir  by  the  Lord  Provost  of 
Glasgow   and   the  great  audience  at 


10 

Friday,  September  30 

Glasgow's  Kelvin  Hall  the  following 
evening.  Then  we  went  to  Manchester 
and  to  Cardiff,  where  the  Stars  and 
Stripes  were  raised  over  Cardiff  Castle 
by  the  gracious  Lord  Mayor  of  that  great 
city  in  honor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  its  sponsoring  institution,  and  of  the 
country  from  which  it  came — not  be- 
neath the  British  flag,  or  any  other  flag, 
but  waving  there  alone  as  we  came  into 
the  city,  the  Stars  and  Stripes  over 
Cardiff  Castle,  with  the  Lord  Mayor 
addressing  us  as  brothers  and  sisters, 
and  giving  every  evidence  of  his  feel- 
ings of  sincerity  in  the  terms  in  which 
he  addressed  us. 

There  are  many  other  unforgettable 
experiences.  Berlin  is  one  of  them.  We 
presented  an  extra  concert  in  the  after- 
noon for  those  who  came,  principally 
from  the  Eastern  Zone,  who  would 
neither  be  able  to  afford,  nor,  for  the 
most  part  would  be  able  to  be  present 
in  the  evening  hours  because  of  dis- 
tances traveled  and  restrictions  en- 
countered. To  see  that  audience  of 
those  from  the  areas  which  have  not 
known  some  of  the  great  privileges  and 
blessings  that  we  have  known,  to  feel 
their  spirit,  to  feel  them  wanting  to  be 
demonstrative,  wanting  to  overflow  in 
appreciation,  and  seemingly  not  know- 
ing quite  how  to,  and  then  melting  and 
overflowing— it  was  an  unforgettable 
experience.  The  audience  of  the  eve- 
ning was  one  quite  in  contrast  with  the 
refugee  audience  and  those  from  eastern 
areas  who  had  come  in  the  afternoon. 

The  President  has  mentioned  the 
temple  dedication  and  the  concerts  in 
Switzerland,  where  we  sang  in  Bern 
and  Zurich;  those  in  Copenhagen  (an 
extra  one  being  presented  there  by  our 
male  chorus  in  Tivoli  Gardens,  in  re- 
sponse to  public  demand);  the  great 
audience  in  the  Royal  Albert  Hall  in 
London,  a  place  of  great  tradition,  of 
great  prestige,  sometimes  of  great  re- 
serve— an  overflow  audience  there  in 
that  great  hall  of  some  seven  to  eight 
thousand  people,  melting,  taking  us 
into  their  hearts  and  we  taking  them 
into  ours.  It  was  a  wonderful  and 
satisfying  and  unforgettable  experience. 

Then  in  Paris,  the  final  concert  (not 
forgetting  those  in  Amsterdam  and 
Scheveningen  in  the  Netherlands  and 
in  Wiesbaden,  Germany,  which  were 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

equally  significant)  where  the  city  coun- 
cil and  the  ranking  officers  of  the  city 
of  Paris  presented  medals  to  the  princi- 
pals of  the  choir  and  scrolls  of  com- 
mendation, not  only  to  individuals,  but 
also  to  some  of  us  as  representatives  of 
the  Church,  they  having  also  passed  a 
special  appropriation  for  refreshments 
for  the  entire  group  of  six  hundred  in 
the  magnificent  city  palace  where  roy- 
alty has  been  entertained  for  genera- 
tions. There  was  no  honor  that  we 
knew  of  that  the  city  of  Paris  could  do 
for  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the 
Church  and  the  country  from  which 
they  came  that  they  did  not  do  and 
extend  to  us. 

Everywhere  public  officials  of  the 
countries  in  which  we  found  ourselves, 
as  well  as  our  own  diplomatic  officers, 
and  the  press,  and  the  public,  were  as 
gracious  and  warm  and  wonderful  as 
one  could  ask  from  his  own  kin  and 
countrymen.  Scores — hundreds — of  pic- 
tures and  fair  and  favorable  stories  ap- 
peared throughout  Europe  in  the  public 
press;  and  we  were  on  the  air  in  many 
places.  It  seemed  that  virtually  no 
doors  that  we  had  time  to  open  were 
closed  to  us — and  no  hearts  either,  or 
so  it  seemed. 

Thank  God  for  all  his  blessings  and 
mercies  and  for  far-reaching  conse- 
quences beyond  our  ability  to  estimate 
or  to  foresee. 

I  think  the  Berlin  Telegraf  summed 
it  up  in  a  sentence  when  it  said  in  its 
edition  immediately  after  the  Berlin 
concert,  "This  was  not  only  music,  but 
the  building  of  a  human  bridge."  This 
we  also  felt  is  what  it  was. 

Now  as  to  two  or  three  of  the  side- 
lights: One  was  the  language  barrier. 
What  happened  at  the  Tower  of  Babel 
never  should  have  happened,  but  by  the 
perverseness  of  men  it  did,  and  by  the 
dispersion  of  men  it  has  continued. 
We  wrestled  with  it  all  the  way,  but 
not  with  so  much  difficulty  as  we  might 
have  supposed.  In  all  places  to  which 
we  went  a  large  percentage  of  our  audi- 
ences were  bilingual  and  understood 
us  without  translators.  We  used  in- 
terpreters, but  in  many  places  the  re- 
action of  the  audience  to  the  English 
was  more  immediate  than  the  reaction 
to  the  translations  which  followed. 

We  found  no  insurmountable  barrier 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


11 


of  language  or  of  geography  to  under- 
standing among  men.  We  found  noth- 
ing that  could  prevent  sincere  and. hon- 
est people .  from  taking  one  another  to 
the  hearts  of  each  other,  in  peace,  in 
honor,  and  in  understanding. 

We  found  nothing  to  cause  us  to 
come  to  any  conclusion  except  that  all 
men  are  children  of  the  Lord  God,  and 
that  all  are  precious  in  his  sight.  We 
found  no  people  that  we  could  not  love. 
We  found  no  people  for  whom  we  did 
not  come  away  with  affection  in  our 
souls  and  in  our  hearts.  We  found  no 
people  for  whom  we  did  not  feel  a 
genuine,  deep,  arid  grateful  friendship. 
Thank  God  for  this,  also — for  not  let- 
ting the  barriers  of  language  or  of 
boundaries  or  of  geography  keep  us  from 
a  satisfying  and  glorious  understanding. 

There  were  some  other  sidelights. 
We  had  about  two-thirds  of  the  pas- 
senger list  on  the  SS  Saxonia,  on  which 
we  sailed  from  Montreal  to  Europe — 
some  six  hundred  out  of  a  passenger 
list  of  some  nine  hundred.  I  think  per- 
haps the  most  frustrated  man  on  the 
SS  Saxonia  on  this  trip  was  the  bar-: 
tender!  (I  think  perhaps  the  next  most 
frustrated  man  aboard  was  the  steward 
who  operated  the  bingo  game  I) 

There  were  many  incidents  of  humor, 
some  of  illness  and  difficulty,  but 
despite  fatigue,  despite  difficult  and 
sometimes  discouraging  conditions  and 
a  close,  demanding  schedule,  the  choir 
rose  magnificently  on  every  occasion 
and  did  a  marvelous  and  wonderful 
service.  >r. 

I  am  grateful  this  morning  in  fol- 
lowing the  theme  of  gratitude,  for  the 
courage  and  conviction  of  President 
McKay  in  committing  us  to  the  tour, 
despite  our  fears  and  apprehensions.  I 
am  grateful  for  the  favorable  outcome, 
which  is  beyond  our  ability  to  estimate. 

If  I  may  be  pardoned  another  thought 
or  two  of  personal  gratitude:  I  am 
grateful  that  my  gracious  wife  was  with 
us.  I  was  proud  of  her  performance 
at  press  conferences  and  public  recep- 
tions and  on  all  other  occasions  (as  I 
was  of  Sister  McKay  also,  and  those 
who  were  with  her  and  the  President). 
I  am  grateful  to  have  our  eldest  sort 
serving  among  the  missionaries  of 
Europe  (hundreds  of  whom  we  have 
met),  serving  in  my  own  field  of  labor 


at  precisely  the  age,  even  to  the  month, 
at  which  I  entered  the  same  field,  some 
twenty-nine  years  ago.  I  am  grateful 
for  the  work  of  all  the  missionaries,  and 
the  mission  presidents,  and  all  the  de- 
voted people,  and  for  the  onward  move 
and  the  great  and  glorious  achieve- 
ments and  progress  and  opportunities 
that  are  ours. 

We  come  back  not  much  given  to 
boasting.  We  are  aware  of  the  art  and 
culture  of  Europe,  of  its  great  cathedrals, 
of  its  great  contributions,  its  great  peo- 
ples, its  great  history,  its  great  ac- 
complishments, and  are  not  so  much 
disposed  to  boast  of  ourselves  or  of  any 
physical  attainments.  I  am  not  sure 
that  we  have  the  greatest  of  many  things 
here.  But  of  this  I  am  sure,  and  of 
this  I  bear  you  witness  this  day:  that 
we  have  the  greatest  message  for  man- 
kind, the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  restored 
in  its  fulness,  and  the  greatest  oppor- 
tunity to  convey  it  to  others  that  any 
people  ever  had,  and  the  greatest  re- 
sponsibility upon  us  to  do  it. 

God  help  us  to  do  it  and  to  meet  the 
greatness  of  this  responsibility. 

I  should  like  to  close  with  a  few 
words  from  the  closing  sentences  of 
King  Benjamin's  great  sermon  to  his 
people,  from  the  Book  of  Mormon: 

My  friends  and  my  brethren,  my  kindred 
and  my  people,  .  .  . 

if  ye  have  come  to  a  knowledge  of 
the  goodness  of  God,  and  his  matchless 
power,  and  his  wisdom,  and  his  patience, 
and  his  long-suffering  towards  the  children 
of  men;  and  also,  the  atonement  which  has 
been  prepared  from  the  foundation  of  the 
world,  that  thereby  salvation  might  come 
to  him  that  should  put  his  trust  in  the 
Lord,  and  should  be  diligent  in  keeping  his 
commandments,  and  continue  in  the  faith 
even  unto  the  end  of  his  life,  .  .  . 

this  is  the  means  whereby  salvation 
cometh.  And  there  is  none  other  salva- 
tion save  this  which  hath  been  spoken  of; 
neither  are  there  any  conditions  whereby 
man  can  be  saved  except  the  conditions 
which  I  have  told  you. 

Believe  in  God;  believe  that  he  is,  and 
that  he  created  all  things,  both  in  heaven 
and  in  earth;  believe  that  he  has  all 
wisdom,  and  all  power,  both  in  heaven 
and  in  earth;  believe  that  man  doth  not 
comprehend  all  the  things  which  the  Lord 
can  comprehend. 

And  again,  believe  that  ye  must  repent 
of  your  sins  and  forsake  them,  and  humble 


12 

Friday,  September  30 

yourselves  before  God;  and  ask  in  sincerity 

of  heart  that  he  would  forgive  you;  and 

now,  if  you  believe  all  these  things  see 

that  ye  do  them. 

***** 

And  behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  if  ye 
do  this  ye  shall  always  rejoice,  and  be  filled 
with  the  love  of  God,  and  always  retain  a 
remission  of  your  sins;  and  ye  shall  grow 
in  the  knowledge  of  the  glory  of  him  that 
created  you,  or  in  the  knowledge  of  that 
which  is  just  and  true.  (Mos.  4:4,  6,  8-10, 
12.) 

God  help  us  to  have  the  courage  and 
the  wisdom  to  be  what  we  should  be,  to 
live  as  we  should  live,  to  do  what  we 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

should  do,  and  to  arise  to  the  greatest 
message  to  mankind  and  to  the  greatest 
opportunity  and  responsibility  that  is 
ours,  to  deliver  it,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  be  our  next 
speaker.  Following  Elder  McConkie  the 
Choir  and  Congregation  will  join  in 
singing,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


|Y  heart  was  moved  today, 
as  I  am  sure  all  of  your 
hearts  were,  as  we  heard 
President  McKay  tell  of 
the  achievements  and  re- 
88®  suits  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  trip  and  then  bear  witness  of  his 
feelings  and  sentiments  relative  to  the 
dedication  of  the  new  temple  in  Switzer- 
land. 

It  appears  from  what  is  going  on 
relative  to  this  temple  and  others  that 
are  in  course  of  construction  and  are 
contemplated,  that  you  and  I  are  living 
in  an  age  when  the  brethren  feel  that 
the  great  blessings  of  the  temple  should 
be  made  readily  available  to  people  in 
all  nations  and  in  all  places  where  con- 
gregations of  the  Saints  are  of  sufficient 
numbers  to  warrant  such. 

I  think  if  I  might  have  the  Spirit  for 
a  few  moments,  that  I  would  like  to 
say  something  to  you  as  to  why  the 
Latter-day  Saints  build  temples.  Tem- 
ples are  not  just  houses  of  worship; 
they  are  not  meetinghouses  or  taber- 
nacles; they  are  not  something  designed 
where  we  can  assemble  together  and  be 
fed  the  bread  of  life  and  taught  our 
obligations  and  responsibilities.  But 
temples,  as  we  understand,  build,  and 
dedicate  them,  are  sacred  sanctuaries, 
set  apart  from  the  world,  houses  pre- 
pared and  given  to  the  Lord  in  which 
can  be  performed  the  ordinances,  and 
in  which  can  be  taught  the  principles, 
whereby  you  and  I  can  have  opportu- 


nity to  enter  into  an  eternal  fulness  in 
the  kingdom  of  our  Father. 

When  we  come  out  of  the  world  and 
join  the  Church,  when  we  become 
members  of  this  kingdom,  we  get  on  a 
path  which  is  named  the  "strait  and 
narrow  path."  Membership  in  the 
Church  starts  us  out  toward  a  goal 
which  is  called  eternal  life.  Baptism  is 
not  an  end  in  itself;  it  is  the  beginning 
of  the  process  of  working  out  our  salva- 
tion with  fear  and  trembling  before  the 
Lord. 

After  we  have  joined  the  Church 
and  have  come  into  the  kingdom,  and 
have  been  given  the  right  to  the  con- 
stant companionship  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
then  if  we  press  forward  and  keep  the 
commandments  of  God,  at  long-last 
and  eventually,  we  are  entitled  to  an  in- 
heritance in  his  eternal  world  where  the 
fulness  of  his  glory  is  found. 

As  we  understand  the  revelations, 
when  we  accept  Christ  and  join  the 
Church,  we  have  power  given  us  to  be- 
come the  sons  of  God.  We  are  not  his 
sons  and  daughters  by  Church  mem- 
ship  alone,  but  we  have  the  ability  and 
the  capacity  and  the  power  to  attain 
unto  that  status  after  we  accept  the 
Lord  with  all  our  hearts.  (See  D  &  C 
39:1-6.) 

Now  the  ordinances  that  are  per- 
formed in  the  temples  are  the  ordi- 
nances of  exaltation;  they  open  the  door 
to  us  to  an  inheritance  of  sonship;  they 
open  the  door  to  us  so  that  we  may 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


13 


become  sons  and  daughters,  members 
of  the  household  of  God  in  eternity.  If 
we  go  to  the  temples  with  an  honest 
heart  and  a  contrite  spirit,  having  pre- 
pared ourselves  by  personal  righteous- 
ness and  worthiness  and  proper  living, 
then  in  those  houses  we  receive  the 
ordinances  and  the  instructions  which 
enable  us,  if  we  thereafter  continue 
faithful,  to  receive  eventually  the  ful- 
ness of  the  Father. 

The  temple  ordinances  open  the  door 
to  gaining  all  power  and  all  wisdom 
and  all  knowledge.  Temple  ordinances 
open  up  the  way  to  membership  in  the 
Church  of  the  Firstborn.  They  open 
the  door  to  becoming  kings  and  priests 
and  inheriting  all  things. 

Now  the  mere  fact  that  we  receive 
the  ordinances  in  no  sense  guarantees 
that  we  will  receive  these  rewards.  The 
fact  that  we  are  sealed  in  the  temple 
for  time  and  eternity  to  our  wives  and 
our  children  does  not  guarantee  that  in 
the  end  we  shall  obtain  those  blessings. 

In  my  judgment  there  is  no  more  im- 
portant single  act  that  any  Latter-day 
Saint  ever  does  in  this  world  than  to 
marry  the  right  person  in  the  right 
place  by  the  right  authority.  The  right 
person  is  someone  for  whom  the  natural 
and  wholesome  and  normal  affection 
that  should  exist  does  exist.  It  is  the 
person  who  is  living  so  that  he  or  she 
can  go  to  the  temple  of  God  and  make 
the  covenants  that  we  there  make.  The 
right  place  is  the  temple,  and  the  right 
authority  is  the  sealing  power  which 
Elijah  restored. 

All  of  these  things,  these  exaltations 
and  honors  and  glories,  are  offered  to 
us  and  all  the  world  in  and  through 
the  ordinances  that  are  performed  in 
these  sacred  sanctuaries  which  are  set 
apart  from  the  world.  After  we  have 
partaken  of  these  ordinances,  then  it  is 


incumbent  upon  us  that  we  live  in 
harmony  with  the  principles  of  eternal 
truth  and  walk  uprightly  before  the 
Lord.  If  we  keep  the  covenants  that 
we  have  made  in  these  holy  places, 
then  we  will  have  reward  and  honor 
in  eternity,  to  say  nothing  of  that  peace 
and  happiness  in  this  life  which  is  be- 
yond any  comprehension  or  understand- 
ing that  anyone  of  the  world  could 
have. 

It  appeals  to  me  that  we  ought  to 
think,  all  of  us  as  individuals,  since 
the  brethren  are  doing  all  the  things 
they  are  relative  to  temple  building, 
that  this  is  an  age  and  a  time  and  an 
hour  when  all  of  us  ought  to  set  our 
houses  in  order  and  do  the  things  that 
I  am  sure  we  already  know  we  should, 
in  order  to  become  inheritors  of  these 
eternal  blessings.  The  blessings  come 
on  conditions  of  personal  righteousness, 
on  conditions  of  overcoming,  as  the 
Lord  said,  "To  him  that  overcometh 
will  I  grant  to  sit  with  me  in  my  throne, 
even  as  I  also  overcame,  and  am  set 
down  with  my  Father  in  his  throne." 
(Rev.  3:21.)  In  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Wherever  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints" 
was  sung  in  Europe,  the  audience  de- 
manded an  encore.   It  was  remarkable. 

Let  us  all  join  with  the  Choir  in  sing- 
ing that  favorite  hymn,  conducted  now 
by  Elder  Heinz  Rimmasch. 

Singing  by  the  Choir  and  congrega- 
tion, "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  Del- 
bert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Wggti  BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS:  I 

■K  J'  face  you  humbly  this 
morning.  A  feature  of  a 
general  conference  is  the 
diversity  of  messages 
treated  by  members  of  the 
•General  Authorities.  I  hesitate  to  break 


the  theme  of  the  previous  speakers,  but 
I  firmly  believe  variety  does  have  some 
value. 

I  have  often  thought  that  I  should 
like  to  say  a  few  words  about  the. 
Church  welfare  program  in  a  general 
conference  of  the  Church.    I  believe  in 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  September  30 

and  accept  the  program  with  all  my 
heart  and  soul.  -  Perhaps  I  cannot  add 
anything  new,  but  a  re-emphasis  of  some 
basic  principles  with  a  few  personal 
thoughts  and  feelings  may  more  fully 
encourage  complete  acceptance  and  sup- 
port of  this  inspired  plan. 

It  is  distinctly  a  new  approach  to 
providing  social  care.  The  plan  is  not 
a  dole.  The  edict,  "In  the  sweat  of  thy 
face  shalt  thou  eat  bread,"  (Gen.  3:19) 
applies  today  as  anciently.  Also  in  this 
dispensation  the  Lord  declared,  ".  .  .  he 
that  is  idle  shall  not  eat  the  bread  nor 
wear  the  garments  of  the  laborer." 
(D&C  42:42.)  Each  able  person  is 
expected  to  work  for  what  he  receives, 
which  in  part  is  the  genius  and  a  basic 
principle  of  the  plan;  however,  the  in- 
capacitated and  aged,  unable  to  work, 
whose  relatives  cannot  or  do  not  pro- 
vide for  them,  are  taken  care  of  accord- 
ing to  their  wants  and  needs  as  long 
as  these  needs  are  just. 

Welfare  workers  should  make  those 
helped  feel  good  in  receiving  welfare 
assistance.  Some  claim  humiliation  in 
accepting  help  from  the  Church,  yet  are 
not  embarrassed  by  receiving  a  govern- 
ment dole.  The  best  antidote  against 
humiliation  is  to  furnish  work  oppor- 
tunities for  those  receiving  benefits  in 
the  program  to  give  them  the  right  feel- 
ing of  having  earned  and  therefore  en- 
titled to  welfare  assistance. 

We  are  setting  a  pattern  in  welfare 
work  that  the  world  is  watching.  Being 
inspired  of  God,  it  must  work  success- 
fully, but  the  success  of  it  lies  in 
leadership  and  people.  It  is  leadership's 
point  of  view  and  attitudes  which  must 
be  right.  The  stake  presidents  and 
bishops  of  the  Church  who  stand  out 
as  acknowledged  and  respected  leaders 
are  those  who,  according  to  their  divine 
appointment,  have  taken  seriously  the 
welfare  program  and  in  love  and  under- 
standing have  made  it  work  advan- 
tageously in  the  lives  of  their  people. 
Training  Church  membership  in  wel- 
fare activities  has  proved  an  important 
facility  in  getting  them  to  do  other 
things  important  to  spiritual  growth  and 
testimony. 

Welfare  is  still,  however,  a  program 
of  education.  Leadership  must  see  to  it 
that  information  concerning  the  plan, 
together  with  the  counsel  and  insrruc- 


First  Day 

tion  from  the  presiding  brethren,  reaches 
the  rank  and  file  of  Church 'members 
for  better  understanding.  Improved  un- 
derstanding wipes  out  prejudice  andre- 
sentment  to  the  plan.  Our  people  are 
entitled  to  be  properly  informed.  The 
better  informed  they  are,  the  more 
ready  the  acceptance  and  the  better 
work  they  will  do.  We  cannot  over- 
look the  importance  of  proper  atti- 
tudes toward  the  plan  on  the  part  of 
the  membership  of  the  Church.  All 
must  be  encouraged  to  accept  and  come 
the  Church  way  completely  or  the  pro- 
gram will  fall  short  in  its  goals.  It  does 
not  replace  tithing  but  is  an  added  step 
supplementing  that  divine  law  in  the 
care  of  the  needy  of  the  Church. 

Ofttimes  the  greatest  antagonisms  and 
the  worst  enemies  to  the  program  are 
found  within  our  own  ranks.  I  will  al- 
ways remember  and  thank  Elder  Marion 
G.  Romney  for  the  important  lesson  he 
taught  me  many  years  ago  in  a  special 
stake  and  ward  welfare  meeting  held 
in  Phoenix,  Arizona,  while  the  pro- 
gram was  still  quite  young.  I  informed 
him  our  company  was  paying  heavy 
taxes,  and  I  wanted  to  see  our  people 
obtain  their  proportionate  share  of  pub- 
lic assistance.  At  that  time  I  felt  keenly 
the  Tightness  of  this  position.  He  said 
to  me,  "That  may  be  good  for  the 
world,  but  it  isn't  the  Lord's  plan.  The 
•  welfare  program  is  the  Lord's  way  of 
providing  for  his  own."  He  fhen  ex- 
plained its  purpose  and  operation  in 
more  detail.  No  doubt  other  of  the 
welfare  brethren  or  General-  Authorities 
had  given  the  same  counsel. on  previous 
.visits,  but  somehow  it  dicfihot  register 
nor.  take  root  in  my  mind.  On  that  oc- 
casion the  Holy  Ghost  bore  .witness  to 
my  spirit  of  the  truth  of  that  which 
Elder  Romney  testified.  .  Fortified  with 
this  witness,  Jrom  that  time  forward  I 
have  strongly  advocated  and  supported 
this  worthy- program  from  the  Lord.  It 
is  right  in  principle  and  true  in  its  con- 
cepts, regardless -of  one's  approach  to 
the  plan.  A  little  prayerful  meditation 
in  an  honest  and  sincere  manner  will 
bring  true  conviction;  into  the  hearts  of 
the.  uncertain  and  skeptical. 

The.  welfare  program  in  operation 
since:  1936  is  a  continuing  plan  for  the 
people  of  .  the  ^Church,  until  a  more  per- 
fect and  higher  plan-  is  revealed.  When 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


15 


we  demonstrate  our  faith,  worthiness, 
willingness,  and  unity  to  live  fully  the 
principles  of  the  welfare  plan,  it  will 
lead  and  prepare  us  for  the  higher  law 
of  the  celestial  kingdom.  The  Lord 
has  affirmed  in  this  dispensation: 

And  Zion  cannot  be  built  up  unless  it  is 
by  the  principles  of  the  law  of  the  celes- 
tial kingdom;  otherwise  I  cannot  receive 
her  unto  myself.  {Ibid.,  105:5.) 

I  would  dislike  to  see  any  logical 
facet  or  service  that  comes  within  the 
concepts  and  functions  of  the  welfare 
plan  sacrificed  in  exchange  for  what  I 
would  term  insecure  man-made  social 
formulas  for  collective  or  personal  bene- 
fits. I  should  not  like  to  see  any  pro- 
posed substitute  for  the  plan  unless  it 
is  better,  and  the  only  way  it  could  be 
better,  in  my  estimation,  is  for  God  to 
reveal  it. 

We  may  not  yet  see  or  understand 
the  immediate  need  of  the  welfare  pro- 
gram, but  as  surely  as  God  lives  and 
as  time  goes  on,  the  inspiration  of  it 
will  prove  a  blessing  to  the  people  of 
the  Church.  Sometimes  I  think  people 
not  of  the  Church  who  take  time  to 
learn  about  the  program  see  the  divine 
nature  and  the  rich  blessings  of  it  more 
fully  than  some  of  our  own  who  have 
not  gone  to  that  trouble.  I  am  confi- 
dent that  knowledge  of  the  welfare 
program  has  brought  much  good  will 
and  friendliness  to  the  Church.  Thus 
it  has  opened  many  doors  to  our  mis- 
sionaries for  the  teaching  of  the  restored 
gospel  of  our  Lord.  It  has  become,  then, 
a  powerful  missionary  agency,  not  for 
the  help  it  offers  but  for  the  faith  the 
plan  promotes. 

Listen  to  the  written  comments  of  a 
few  visitors  representing  a  cross  section 
of  many  faiths  who  have  visited  Welfare 
Square  to  learn  about  the  program  and 
have  the  privilege  of  seeing  it  in  action: 

"A  very  good  piece  of  work.  Every 
church  should  have  it." 
.  "The  Mormons  are  to  be  admired  for 
their  great  work  which  sets  an  example 
for  others." 

"Wonderful  program!  If  only  there 
were  more,  it  would  be  a  better  world." 

"This  has  been  a  real  opportunity  to 
see  the  way  the  entire  world  problem 
could  be  solved." 

"Am  surprised. .  Think  your  program 


is  almost  beyond  conception.  Wish  you 
all  success." 

"I've  found  this  a  truly  inspiring  ex- 
perience. The  sincerest  principles  I 
have  ever  found.  A  program  and  re- 
ligion one  should  well  be  proud  of." 

"I  do  not  question  that  this  program 
is  divinely  inspired." 

"I  think  your  work  is  wonderful,  and 
Christ  must  have  a  hand  in  all  of  it." 

"As  anyone  can  see,  God  has  his  eyes 
on  this  organization.  May  the  people 
continue  to  live  this  way.  It  is  uplifting 
to  anyone's  morale  to  see  that  people 
can  still  work  together." 

"I  consider  this  a  God-given  project." 

"Truly  wonderful  what  God  can  do 
with  his  people  who  will  obey." 

"I  believe  it's  God's  plan  of  salvation. 
God  bless  you." 

"This  is  a  wonderful  work!  The  Mor- 
mons have  shown  me  what  it  means  to 
have  God  with  them." 

"This  work  is  truly  God-inspired,  and 
our  prayers  will  be  with  you  in  the 
continuation  of  such  a  good  work." 

"The  whole  program  is  most  amaz- 
ing, and  I  have  seen  with  my  own  eyes 
Jesus  Christ  at  work  in  the  hearts  of 
people." 

"The  philosophy  back  of  your  wel- 
fare program  is  sound.  However,  [and 
here  is  some  real  advice]  I  feel  that  it 
must  take  constant  indoctrination  to 
keep  up  the  enthusiasm  of  employed 
people  to  continue  working  here.  Off- 
hand I  would  welcome  the  opportunity 
to  work  a  day  in  the  cannery.  The 
women  appear  to  be  having  fun." 

About  a  year  and  a  half  ago  I  re- 
ceived an  answer  to  a  letter  of  con- 
dolence I  had  written  to  a  school  friend 
of  mine,  not  a  member  of  the  Church, 
who  in  loving  devotion  had  taken  care 
of  her  parents  throughout  life.  Her 
aged  father  had  just  passed  away.  The 
letter  in  part  read,  "Old  age  is  tragic 
in  many  respects.  I  am  so  thankful  I 
could  take  care  of  my  parents.  The 
attitude  of  your  Church  for  the  aged  is 
wonderful.  Never  fail  to  stress  family 
obligations  to  the  aged  and  helpless. 
May  God  bless  your  Church  and  you 
in  your  work." 

Such  favorable  expressions  from  our 
friends  should  give  us  greater  apprecia- 
tion For  the  welfare  plan.  Also,  these 
expressions  emphasizing  the  God-given 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  September  30 

values  and  encouragement  for  continued 
functioning  are  challenges  for  us  to 
make  the  plan  succeed,  which  it  can- 
not do  unless  we  accept  it  fully  and 
really  work  at  it  enthusiastically. 

If  some  people  of  the  Church  are 
waiting  for  adverse  circumstances  to 
affect  them  personally  before  support- 
ing the  program,  they  should  remember 
that  there  are  many  faithful  souls  who 
now  require  assistance,  and  some  of 
them  may  be  their  own  immediate  rela- 
tives. If  the  true  concepts  of  this  plan 
are  operating  in  families,  the  families 
will  be  drawn  closer  together  through 
helping  the  ones  in  distress  out  of 
financial  problems  and  temporal  diffi- 
culties. In  the  eyes  of  God  this  work 
is  of  a  spiritual  nature;  therefore  I  have 
more  faith  and  assurance  in  the  stability 
and  the  effectiveness  of  the  welfare 
plan  to  care  for  the  needy  of  the  Church 
under  all  conditions  and  circumstances, 
if  operated  fully  by  faithful  and  de- 
voted members  of  the  Church,  than  I 
do  in  any  plan  of  assistance  devised  by 
man,  regardless  of  how  good  those  plans 
may  be  or  how  well  they  may  be  ad- 
ministered. With  the  heavy  costs  of 
operating  government  at  all  levels  and 
the  interest  and  principle  payments  on 
the  national  debt,  any  downward 
changes  in  our  present  economic  struc- 
ture would  make  insecure  cash  assistance 
payments  to  qualified  recipients.  Also, 
high  inflationary  conditions  or  excessive 
war  needs  of  machinery,  goods,  and 
services  would  render  impossible  to  low 
income  groups  life's  necessities.  These 
conditions,  as  a  Church,  we  must  guard 
against,  for  God  will  hold  us  responsible 
for  failure  to  care  for  his  people. 

Love  and  brotherly  kindness  in  ad- 
ministering help  are  basic  concepts  of 
the  Church  welfare  plan.  We  own 
and  operate  diversified  production 
projects  and  distribution  centers  manned 
by  those  receiving  help  in  the  program 
or  by  voluntary  labor.  Dollar  costs  for 
the  most  part  have  been  eliminated. 
We  are  not  dependent  on  economic 
factors  nor  the  amount  of  cash  income. 
We  produce  and  store  ahead  on  a 
recommended  two  year  basis  in  homes 
and  in  stake,  region,  and  Church  store- 
houses. At  the  present  time  we  are  pro- 
ducing seventy  percent  of  all  welfare 
requirements,    and   -thirty    percent'  is 


First  Day 

acquired  from  commercial  sources. 
When  all  stakes  have  acquired  projects 
and  meet  fully  budget  assignments,  it 
is  anticipated  welfare  can  produce 
ninety-two  percent  of  all  commodities 
used,  and  only  eight  percent  will  come 
from  commercial  channels.  During 
1954,  56,566  persons  were  assisted 
through  the  welfare  plan  of  the  Church, 
which  represents  a  marvelous  and  in- 
valuable service. 

As  I  have  analyzed  the  causes  for  in- 
creased faith,  activities,  devotion,  and 
tithing  throughout  the  Church,  I  am 
constrained  in  all  honesty  to  give  much 
credit  to  the  functions,  activities,  and 
work  connected  with  welfare.  The  or- 
ganizational plan  that  makes  possible 
immediate  contact  with  bishops,  presi- 
dencies of  priesthood  quorums,  and  Re- 
lief Societies  for  help  and  assistance 
from  its  members  on  any  given  welfare 
project  or  activity,  brings  into  service 
many  people,  the  inactive  with  the 
active,  whose  opportunity  of  working 
together  develops  moral  and  spiritual 
strength  that  expresses  itself  in  the  im- 
proved record  of  ward  and  stake  ac- 
complishments. 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  great  serv- 
ice the  Church  through  its  welfare 
program  rendered  to  the  destitute  Saints 
in  Europe  following  World  War  II. 
Conditions  were  tragic;  the  outlook  of 
the  people  hopeless.  Immediate  help 
was  required.  The  storehouses  of  the 
Church  were  well-stocked.  Here  was  a 
test  to  meet  a  real  crisis.  How  well  that 
crisis  was  met  is  now  history,  but  the 
performance  was  creditably  done,  thanks 
to  the  faith  and  works  of  the  people. 
In  what  finer  way  could  the  second 
great  commandment,  to  "love  thy  neigh- 
bour as  thyself"  (Mark  12:31)  be  so 
ably  demonstrated?  Friendly  and  broth- 
erly hands  clasping  across  the  sea  in 
the  spirit  of  love  and  good  will!  A 
strength  and  blessing  to  the  faraway 
Saints  who  in  their  troubles  were  not 
forgotten  by  their  brothers  and  sisters 
in  Zion!  Their  morale  was  lifted;  their 
courage  and  faith  returned.  The  Church 
became  better  known  in  Europe  through 
the  welfare  distribution  of  life's  necessi- 
ties; the  attitudes  of  non-members  be- 
came more  tolerant  and  friendly  to- 
ward us;  and  missionary  work  flourished 
again.    It  was  a  turning  point  for  a 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


17 


brighter  and  a  more  hopeful  future  for 
the  Church. 

I  sincerely  believe  and  am  bold 
enough  to  suggest  that  one  of  the  chief 
foundations  and  contributing  factors 
leading  to  the  erecting  of  the  Swiss 
Temple,  with  all  of  its  blessings  to  the 
European  Saints,  can  be  credited  to  this 
magnificent  welfare  effort. 

It  has  been  said  that  future  events 
cast  their  shadows  before  them;  there- 
fore, accepting  the  experience  of  his- 
tory and  the  prophecies  concerning  the 
calamities  of  the  latter  days,  there  is 
sufficient  cause  to  promote  and  de- 
velop the  great  welfare  program  further, 
to  make  it  fully  and  successfully  opera- 
tive, stable  and  strong,  with  assurance 
and  security  to  our  people,  and  thus 
inviting  to  the  entire  Church  member- 
ship. The  people  of  the  Church  can 
then  be  encouraged  to  come  the  Church- 
way  with  confidence. 

We  must  always  remember  the  para- 
ble of  the  five  wise  and  the  five  foolish 
virgins.  When  difficult  times  come,  and 


surely  they  will,  let  us  not  be  found 
unprepared  and  thus  appear  foolish  be- 
cause we  have  not  obeyed  the  Lord  or 
the  counsel  of  his  servants.  The  wel- 
fare plan  is  the  Lord's  way  to  care  and 
provide  for  his  people.  We  have  been 
sufficiently  warned;  now  it  is  a  test  of 
faith  and  devotion.  Can  we,  my  brothers 
and  sisters  of  the  Church,  measure  up? 

I  bear  you  my  witness  to  the  truth- 
fulness of  this  great  program.  I  hope 
we  have  the  faith  and  the  strength  to 
go  forward  and  make  it  function  even 
as  it  has  been  revealed  and  as  it  has 
been  outlined  for  the  blessing  of  the 
people  of  the  Church,  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Del- 
bert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


;he  humble  and  moving  prayer 
of  our  President  at  the  open- 
ing of  his  address,  and  his 
request  that  we  pray  for  him, 
were  gloriously  answered  as 
■*»»■»■»  he   gave   us   that  inspiring 
opening  talk.    When  I  hear  him,  and 
the  other  great  men  on  this  stand,  ex- 
press feelings  of  weakness  and  inade- 
quacy and  prayers  for  strength  as  they 
address  us,  I  wonder  how  some  of  us 
even  dare  approach  the  pulpit.   My  soul 
is  subdued,  my  heart  is  humble,  as  I 
listen  and  worship  with  you. 

There  are  two  activities  of  the  Church 
which  are  not  only  of  paramount  im- 
portance to  the  members  of  the  Church, 
but  are  also  of  great  and  increasing  in- 
terest and  concern  to  all  who  hear  of 
them.  They  have  the  same  objective 
and  the  same  purpose.  They  are  a  part 
of  the  everlasting  and  unchangeable 
plan  of  redemption.  I  shall  speak  for  a 
moment  on  the  great  missionary  work 
of  the  Church — the  preaching  of  the 
gospel—and  of  the  building  and  opera- 
tion of  temples— to  make  available  to 


both  living  and  dead  the  blessings  that 
come  through  the  performance  of  the 
ordinances  of  the  gospel. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  makes 
knowledge  of  and  obedience  to  law 
prerequisite  to  the  enjoyment  of  its  bless- 
ings. The  plan  of  redemption  provides 
that  all  the  sons  of  God  must  hear  the 
gospel  and  be  given  an  opportunity  to 
embrace  it,  directly  or  vicariously. 

The  injunction  of  the  Savior,  given 
in  Jerusalem  and  repeated  in  this  day, 
"Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach 
the  gospel  to  every  creature,"  (Mark 
16:15)  is  imperative.  That  it  must  be 
done  before  his  work  can  be  consum- 
mated is  evidenced  by  his  further  state- 
ment, 

.  .  .  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be 
preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness 
unto  all  nations;  and  then  shall  the  end 
come.  (Matt.  24:14.) 

This  gospel  of  which  we  speak  is  a 
message  of  good  will,  of  glad  tidings. 
It  is  the  way  of  salvation  in  this  life, 
and  a  method  of  exaltation  in  the  life 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  September  30 

to  come.  Furthermore,  it  is  a  message 
of  peace  on  earth,  for  which  all  the 
world  is  praying.  The  Apostle  Paul 
defined  it  as  ".  . .  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation  to  every  one  that  believeth." 
(Romans  1:16.) 

Now  if  this  gospel,  this  power  of 
God,  is  to  be  effective  unto  the  salva- 
tion of  men,  they  must  believe  it,  but 
quoting  Paul  again, 

.  .  .  how  shall  they  believe  in  him  of 
whom  they  have  not  heard?  and  how  shall 
they  hear  without  a  preacher? 

And  how  shall  they  preach,  except  they 
be  sent?  (Romans  10:14-15.) 

That  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  is  of 
transcendent  importance  is  evidenced 
by  the  fact  that  it  was  enjoined  in  every 
dispensation  from  the  beginning.  Je- 
hovah himself  taught  it  to  Adam,  who 
received  it  and  called  upon  his  sons  to 
repent.  Enoch  and  his  associates  taught 
it  and  lived  it  so  effectively  that  their 
city  was  translated,  and  Enoch  walked 
with  God. 

And  thus  the  Gospel  began  to  be 
preached,  and  by  his  own  voice,  and  by 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  (Moses  5=58.) 

For  one  hundred  and  twenty  years 
Noah  warned  the  unheeding  people  of 
judgments  to  come.  The  gospel  was 
known  to  Abraham,  to  Moses,  and  to 
the  prophets. 

Jesus  of  Nazareth,  in  the  Meridian 
of  Time,  went  about  the  whole  of 
Galilee  teaching  in  their  synagogues  and 
preaching  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom  of 
God.  (See  Matthew  4:23.)  Peter  taught 
it,  and  on  the  day  of  Pentecost  epito- 
mized its  saving  principles  in  the 
memorable  words, 

Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  .... 

For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your 
children,  and  to  all  that  are  afar  off,  even 
as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call. 
(Ibid.,  2:38-39.) 

Me  predicted  the  latter  day  appear- 
ance of  the  Savior  saying, 

Repent  ye  therefore,  and  be  converted, 
that  your  sins  may  be  blotted  out,  when 
the  times  of  refreshing  shall  come  from  the 
presence  of  the  Lord; 


First  Dmj 

And  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ,  which 
before  was  preached  unto  you:  . 

Whom  the  heaven  must  receive  until  the 
times  of  restitution  of  all  things,  which 
God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his 
holy  prophets  since  the  world  began.  (Acts 
3:19-21.) 

We  have  the  same  message,  and  it  is 
taught  by  the  same  authority  as  that 
which  led  the  apostles  to  dedicate  their 
lives  to  it.  To  carry  this  message  to 
Jew  and  gentile,  Paul  went  from  Jeru- 
salem to  Antioch,  thence  west  to  Cyprus 
and  Asia  Minor,  even  into  Europe,  and 
finally  took  his  long  and  adventurous 
journey  to  Rome  where  he  knew  prison 
awaited  him  and  where  some  of  his 
greatest  epistles  were  written.  It  was 
in  Rome  that  he  gave  his  life  for  the 
cause  which  he  advocated  with  such 
consummate  skill.  He  ended  his  life 
with  a  benediction, 

I  have  fought  a  good  fight,  I  have  finished 
my  course,  I  have  kept  the  faith.  (II  Tim- 
othy 4:7.) 

The  early  missionaries  of  this  Church, 
like  their  predecessors,  endured  persecu- 
tion, made  many  sacrifices,  and  were 
willing  to  die  if  need  be  in  proclaiming 
and  defending  the  gospel  of  Christ. 
The  prophet  founder  of  the  Church,  the 
organizer  of  the  missionary  system  in 
this  dispensation,  was,  like  Paul  of  old, 
tried  before  many  magistrates  and 
judges,  appealed  to  the  highest  author- 
ity, was  imprisoned  many  times,  and 
finally  sealed  his  testimony  with  his 
blood. 

Believing  as  we  do  that  this  is  the 
same  gospel  which  Jesus  taught,  that 
in  fact,  as  Paul  said,  there  is  no  other 
gospel,  and  that  it  must  be  preached  to 
all  the  world  as  a  witness,  all  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  or  should  be  mission- 
aries, either  at  home  or  abrcad.  Let 
him  that  is  warned  warn  his  neighbor. 

Since  1830  more  than  71,000  men  and 
women  have  served  in  foreign  mission 
fields.  They  are  literally  carrying  out 
the  injunction,  "Go  ye  into  all  the 
world."  Missions  have  been  established 
in  Europe,  Asia,  Africa,  Australia,  North 
and  South  America,  and  in  the  islands 
of  the  sea.  We  are  constantly  pushing 
back  the  frontiers  of  the  mission  field. 
Since  the  British  Mission  was  estab- 
lished in  1837,  modern  apostles  have 


ELDER  HUC 

dedicated  many  lands  and  countries  for 
the  preaching  of  the  gospel.  The  last 
to  be  so  blessed  were  Korea,  Okinawa, 
the  Philippines,  and  Guam.  They 
were  dedicated  for  this  work  by  Presi- 
dent Joseph  Fielding  Smith  in  August 
last. 

The  weekly  broadcasts  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  have  carried  the  gospel  of 
good  will  and  harmony  unto  millions 
during  the  past  twenty-six  years.  In 
their  recent  tour  of  Europe,  379  mem- 
bers of  the  choir  sang  their  way  into 
the  hearts  of  all  who  heard  them.  Many 
were  led  to  say  with  Isaiah  and  with 
Paul,  "How  beautiful  are  the  feet  of 
them  who  publish  the  gospel  of  peace; 
.  .  ."  (See  Isa.  52:7.) 

Other  millions  of  strangers  within  the 
gates  of  Temple  Square  have  learned 
of  the  heretofore  unpublished  chapters 
of  the  life  of  Christ — chapters  telling 
of  his  visit  to  his  other  sheep  on  the 
American  continent  after  his  cruci- 
fixion in  Jerusalem — also  of  his  glorious 
opening  of  the  last  dispensation  as  he 
appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
in  1820. 

That  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  are  devoted  to  this  work  with 
self-sacrificing  zeal  is  evidenced  by  the 
fact  that  they  traveled  since  last  Octo- 
ber conference  a  total  of  more  than 
756,000  miles. 

Let  us  refer  to  only  a  few  of  the 
brethren  and  only  part  of  their  travels. 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  traveled 
over  30,000  -miles  in  his  recent  tour  of 
the  South  Pacific  Mission.  Elder  Lee 
made  a  similar  journey  last  year.  Elder 
Kimball  has  just  returned  from  Europe 
where  he  visited  fourteen  countries  and 
traveled  more  than  50,000  miles.  Elder 
Mark  E.  Petersen  in  his  tour  of  South 
American  missions  covered  20,000  miles, 
and  Elder  Romney  traveled  33,000  miles 
in  visiting  Australia,  New  Zealand,  and 
other  South  Pacific  countries.-- 

The  members  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  spent  their  whole  time  visiting 
stakes  and  missions.  The  members  of 
the  First  Presidency  have  been  ,  even 
more  active.  We  all  wonder  at  :and 
pray  for  a  continuation  of  their  vitality, 
endurance,  and  inspiration. 

From  January  1954  to  October  1955, 
President  David  O.  McKay,  now  in  his 
83rd  year,  visited  twenty-five  countries 


1  B.  BROWN  19 

on  six  continents  in  land,  sea,  and  air 
journeys  of  approximately  100,000  miles. 

Our  Heavenly  Father,  in  order,  as  he 
said,  to  cut  his  work  short  in  righteous- 
ness, has  made  available  to  us  such 
improved  facilities  of  travel  and  com- 
munication as  would  have  been  nothing 
short  of  miraculous  in  the  days  of  Peter 
and  Paul  or  even  to  our  pioneer  fathers. 
Steamships  and  airplanes  enable  us  to 
go  farther  in  hours  than  they  could  have 
gone  in  months.  Radio  and  television 
have  amplified  the  voice  and  made  it 
possible  to  take  the  gospel  into  the 
homes  of  the  people  of  almost  all  na- 
tions. 

The  day  may  not  be  far  distant  when 
there  will  be  a  world-wide  re-enacting 
of  the  day  of  Pentecost  on  such  a 
colossal  scale  that  people  in  every  land 
may  hear  the  message  of  the  gospel, 
each  in  his  own  tongue  and  at  his  own 
fireside.  Surely  out  of  Zion  shall  go 
forth  the  law  and  the  word  of  the  Lord 
from  Jerusalem.    He  has  said, 

...  he  shall  utter  his  voice  out  of  Zion, 
and  he  shall  speak  from  Jerusalem,  and  his 
voice  shall  be  heard  among  all  people; 

And  the  Lord,  even  the  Savior,  shall  stand 
in  the  midst  of  his  people,  and  shall  reign 
over  all  flesh.  (D  &  C  133:21,  25.) 

But  is  salvation  to  come  only  to  those 
now  living  who  accept  the  gospel  or 
to  the  few — always  a  minority — who  lis- 
tened to  the  prophets  in  other  dispensa- 
tions. No,  the  thought  is  repugnant  to 
reason,  and  inconsistent  with  the  char- 
acter and  attributes  of  God.  That  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel  is  not  to  be 
limited  to  mortal  beings  is  attested  by 
the  scripture,  for  Christ 

".  .  .  went  and  preached  unto  the  spirits 
in  prison;  Which  sometime  were  disobedi- 
ent, when  once  the  longsuffering  of  God 
Waited  in  the  days  of  Noah,  while  the  ark 
was  a  preparing,  ...  (I  Peter  3:19-20.) 

"  And  further,, 

For! .  .  .  this  cause  was  the  gospel  preached 
a.ls'o  to  them  that  are  dead,  that  they  might 
be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh, 
but  live  according  to  God  in  the  spirit. 
(Hid.,  4:6.)  ■  v 

;  While  the  message  of  the  gospel  is 
■  being  carried  to  them  that  are  dead,  the 
living  have  for  the  past  125  years  been 
doing  for  them  what  they  could  not 


20 

Friday,  September  30 

do  for  themselves.  Jesus  said  a  man 
must  be  born  of  the  water  and  of  the 
spirit  before  he  can  see  the  kingdom  of 
God.  This  is  a  universal  law  applying 
to  all,  both  living  and  dead.  Water  is 
a  mundane  element,  and  baptism  is  an 
earthly  ordinance.  How  then  shall  the 
dead  comply  with  the  law  respecting 
baptism? 

The  need  and  efficacy  of  the  law  of 
agency,  of  proxy  or  vicarious  service 
was  recognized  before  the  world  was 
created.  The  doctrine  of  the  atonement 
could  not  have  become  operative  unless 
it  were  possible  for  one  person  to  do 
for  another  that  which  the  latter  could 
not  do  for  himself.  It  was  under  the 
law  of  vicarious  service  that  Christ  re- 
deemed us  from  the  fall  of  Adam, 

...  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ 
shall  all  be  made  alive.  (I  Cor.  15:22.) 

Since  the  Church  was  organized  more 
than  fifteen  million  saving  ordinances 
have  been  performed  by  the  living  for 
the  dead.  New  temples  are  being  built 
in  many  lands  to  facilitate  and  consum- 
mate this  stupendous  work.  The  tre- 
mendous cost  of  preaching  the  gospel  to 
both  the  living  and  the  dead  and  mak- 
ing its  blessings  available  is  met  largely 
from  the  voluntary  contributions  of  the 
people.  The  missionary  and  temple 
work  of  the  Church  is  an  unequaled 
mass  demonstration  of  self-sacrificing 
service. 

Yes,  the  gospel  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation  to  all  them  that  believe. 
There  is  a  power  available  to  man 
which,  when  properly  utilized,  will  re- 
sult in  his  salvation.  This  power  is 
equal  to  the  task  because  it  is  in  fact 
the  power  of  God  as  Paul  declared  it 
to  be.  Before  men  can  use  this  power, 
they  must  hear,  believe,  and  obey.  There 
will  be  no  arbitrary  use  of  this  power; 
no  force  will  ever  be  applied.  The  keys 
to  its  use  are  faith  and  intelligent  co- 
operation. Our  mission  is  to  declare  to 
the  world  first  that  there  is  such  a 
power;  second,  to  explain  the  eternal  and 
immutable  laws  which  govern  its  use; 
third,  to  perform  authoritatively  the 
ordinances  which  by  divine  decree  have 
been  made  prerequisite  to  seeing  or 
entering  the  kingdom  of  God;  and 
fourth,  to  warn  the  nations  of  the 
calamities  which  shall  be  visited  upon 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

the  ungodly  before  the  second  advent 
of  the  Savior. 

We  preach  the  same  gospel  that  was 
taught  anciently.  We  teach  it  by  the 
same  authority.  That  gospel,  and  the 
authority  to  teach  it  and  administer  in 
its  ordinances,  was  restored  to  this  earth 
at  the  dawn  of  the  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times.  We  hail  that  dawn 
as  we  sing  the  great  hymn  of  Parley  P. 
Pratt: 

The  morning  breaks;  the  shadows  flee; 
Lo,  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled! 
The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day 
Majestic  rises  on  the  world. 

***** 

Jehovah  speaks!  let  earth  give  ear, 
And  Gentile  nations  turn  and  live. 
His  mighty  arm  is  making  bare, 
His  covenant  people  to  receive. 

Heavenly  Father,  wilt  thou  bless  all 
of  us  that  we,  too,  may  fight  a  good 
fight,  may  finish  the  course,  may  keep 
the  faith,  we  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  concluded  speaking. 
The  German  Speaking  Organization 
Choir  will  now  favor  us  with  "Praise 
Ye  The  Lord,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Heinz  Rimmasch.  The  closing  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  William  How- 
ard Allen,  president  of  the  Granite 
Stake,  after  which  this  Conference  will 
be  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this  after- 
noon. 

The  music  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  German  Speaking 
Church  Organization  Choir,  Elder  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  We  appreciate 
the  beautiful  flowers  that  adorn  the 
rostrum  and  these  side  tables.  They 
are  from  the  Saints  in  Honolulu,  and 
the  Wilford  Stake  of  Salt  Lake  City. 

"Praise  Ye  the  Lord,"  now,  and  then 
the  prayer  by  Elder  William  Howard 
Allen. 


The  German-Speaking  L.D.S.  Or- 
ganization Choir  sang  "Praise  Ye  The 
Lord." 

Elder  William  Howard  Allen  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  promptly  at 
2  o'clock  p.m.,  Friday,  September  30. 

The  German-Speaking  L.D.S.  Organ- 
ization Choir  furnished  the  choral 
music  for  this  session.  Heinz  Rimmasch 
conducted  the  Choir.  Frank  W.  Asper 
was  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  the  second  session  of 
the  126th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  For  those  who  are  unable 
to  enter  the  building,  we  announce  that 
these  services  are  being  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall 
over  a  public  address  system  and  by 
television. 

These  services  are  also  being  tele- 
vised over  KSL-TV,  Channel  5,  of  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  are  being  heard  over 
radio  station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
by  arrangement  through  KSL  over  12 
radio  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Nevada, 
Arizona,  and  California.  A  special  tele- 
vision cable  installation  will  be  shown 
in  four  chapels  in  Pocatello,  Idaho,  and 
by  special  arrangement  over  two  tele- 
vision stations  in  Idaho.  The  names 
of  these  stations  have  already  been  an- 
nounced to  the  radio  audience. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Choir's  singing  "A  Mighty  Fortress," 


conducted  by  Elder  Heinz  Rimmasch. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Jesse  M.  Smith,  president  of 
the  Snowflake  Stake. 


The  Choir  sang  the  musical  number, 
"A  Mighty  Fortress." 

Elder  Jesse  M.  Smith,  President  of  the 
Snowflake  Stake,  offered  the  invoca- 
tion. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Jesse  M.  Smith,  president  of  the  Snow- 
flake  Stake. 

The  German  Speaking  Church  Or- 
ganization Choir  will  now  favor  us  with, 
"Cherubim  Song,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Heinz  Rimmasch,  following  which 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  speak  to  us. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Cherubim 
Song." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  be  our  first  speak- 
er this  afternoon.  If  President  Thomas 
E.  McKay  will  make  his  way  to  the 
rostrum,  we  should  like  to  hear  a  few 
words  from  him  following  President 
Clark. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


|Y    BRETHREN     AND  SISTERS, 

those  who  are  before  me 
and  those  who  are  on  the 
air:  I  rejoice  with  you  in 
the  glorious  inspiration 
that  we  had  in  the  morn- 
ing session  and  for  the  encouragement 
which  it  gave  to  us  as  to  the  way  in 
which  we  are  regarded  in  the  world, 
and  as  to  the  duty  which  that  imposes 
upon  us,  and  for  the  other  instructions 
which  we  received.    It  is  my  earnest 


desire  and  my  prayer  that  I  may  be 
able  to  say  something  today  that  will  be 
fruitful,  that  will  build  up  our  faith, 
and  that  will,  I  hope,  call  attention  to 
one  great  principle  which  I  think  is  at 
the  base,  one  of  the  two  great  incidents 
that  are  at  the  base  of  all  that  we  be- 
lieve and  all  that  we  know. 

Paul,  speaking  to  the  Corinthians,  in 
the  beginning  of  his  First  Epistle, 
thanked  God  that  he  had  only  baptized 
two  of  them  in  Corinth,  Crispus  and 


22  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  September  30 

Gaius,  and  he  more  or  less  repudiated 
the  rest  of  them  because  of  their  pagan- 
ism and  their  unbelief.  Very  early  in 
his  First  Epistle  he  told  them  about  how 
he  felt  about  this.  He  said:  "For  I  de- 
termined not  to  know  any  thing  among 
you,  save  Jesus  Christ,  and  him  cruci- 
fied." (I  Cor.  2:2.) 

And  if  you  would  read  in  this  con- 
nection, and  I  hope  you  will,  the  fif- 
teenth chapter  of  First  Corinthians, 
dealing  with  the  resurrection,  you  will 
read  there  one  of  the  great,  masterful 
sermons  that  have  been  preached  in  the 
world  on  the  resurrection,  in  which, 
with  searching  logic  and  great  argu- 
ment, Paul  showed  how  vain  was  all 
we  believed  and  all  we  taught  if  Christ 
was  not  resurrected. 

I  recall,  also,  in  this  connection,  those 
words  of  Peter  at  the  time  he  and  John 
had  gone  to  visit  the  Temple.  As  they 
started  inward  from  the  Court  of  the 
Gentiles  to  the  Court  of  the  Women, 
there  at  the  Gate  Beautiful,  which  was 
the  entrance,  they  came  to  a  beggar  who 
seemingly  had  been  brought  there  for 
years.  He  made  his  living  by  what  he 
got  begging  from  those  who  went  in. 
Peter  and  John  stopped  a  moment,  said 
to  him:  "Look  on  us,"  and  he,  expecting 
to  receive  alms  from  them,  looked  up, 
and  Peter  said  to  him: 

"Silver  and  gold  have  I  none;  but 
such  as  I  have  give  I  thee:  In  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth  rise  up  and 
walk."  And  he  reached  down  and  took 
the  man  by  the  hand,  and  as  the  man 
came  to  his  feet,  his  feet  and  his  ankles 
straightened,  and  he  walked  and  leaped 
for  joy  and  praised  God.  (See  Acts  3:1- 
8.) 

The  Jewish  rulers  could  not  endure 
this  challenge.  Peter  and  John  were 
arrested,  thrown  into  jail,  and  then, 
when  morning  came,  they  were  called 
before  Annas,  the  real  high  priest, 
Caiaphas,  his  son-in-law,  who  was  the 
titular  high  priest,  made  so  by  the 
Roman  government,  with  John  and 
Alexander,  and  others,  kindred  of  the 
high  priest,  and  the  others  who  were 
members  of  the  Sanhedrin.  These  de- 
manded of  Peter  and  John  by  what 
power  and  by  what  name  they  had  done 
these  things.  (See  ibid.,  4:1-12.) 

Peter,  who  made  their  defense,  said: 
".  .  .  by  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of 


First  Day 

Nazareth,  whom  ye  crucified."  And 
added:  "Neither  is  there  salvation  in 
any  other:  for  there  is  none  other  name 
under  heaven  given  among  men,  where- 
by we  must  be  saved."  (Ibid.,  4:10,  12.) 

Today  the  great  Christian  world  are 
retreating  from  their  early  and  true  be- 
lief in  Jesus  as  the  Christ.  They  are 
explaining  him  in  different  ways.  They 
are  taking  away  from  him  his  divinity. 

One  great  church  is  loosening,  ap- 
parently, the  bands  which  they  formerly 
had  that  bound  them  to  Jesus  Christ,  by 
setting  up  in  his  place  the  mother  of 
Jesus,  Mary.  We  of  our  faith  know  that 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  the  Christ.  This 
is  our  knowledge.  We  must  proclaim  it 
at  all  times  and  under  all  circumstances. 

You  know,  it  is  not  difficult  to  under- 
stand that  the  Christian  world  does  not 
have  the  knowledge  which  we  possess, 
because  the  Bible,  the  Old  Testament, 
contains  scant  notice  about  the  Christ 
and  about  his  work.  There  are  some 
glorious  passages  in  the  Psalms  which 
describe  his  crucifixion,  tell  about  his 
birth,  but  by  and  large  there  is  not 
much  told  about  him. 

Why  should  Jesus  of  Nazareth  as- 
sume this  tremendous  place  and  im- 
portance in  the  Christian  world,  as  de- 
scribed by  Paul  and  Peter? 

Modern  revelation  has  revealed  this 
to  us.  I  have  not  time,  this  is  not  the 
place,  to  undertake  to  discuss  the  Fall 
and  the  atonement,  more  than  to  say  a 
few  words. 

We  know  of  the  Grand  Council,  we 
know  of  the  determinations  there  made, 
we  know  that  the  world  was  created  in 
order  that  the  spirits  from  the  spirit 
world  might  come  here  and  be  taber- 
nacled. 

We  know  of  the  placing  of  Adam  in 
the  Garden  and  the  instruction  which 
was  given  to  him  regarding  the  two 
trees.  We  know  of  the  disobedience  to 
the  instruction  with  reference  to  the 
tree  of  the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil. 
I  do  not  like  to  call  it  a  transgression 
because  the  act  that  was  done  by  Adam 
had  been  foreseen;  and  it  had  been 
planned  before  the  world  was  that  he 
would  do  all  he  did  do. 

But  an  immortal  being  had  disobeyed 
the  commandment  of  the  Lord.  An 
immortal  being  had  eaten  the  fruit  An 
immortal  being  had  suffered  the  con- 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


23 


sequence.  He  and  Eve  became  mortal, 
and  she  afterwards  sang  in  a  great 
hymn  of  praise,  her  gratitude  for  thus 
having  disobeyed,  because  now  they 
could  have  seed.  (See  Moses  5:11.)  We 
know  that  by  having  seed  they  could 
go  forward  in  fulfilling  the  plan  that 
was  originally  mapped  out  in  the  Grand 
Council. 

Adam  became  mortal;  spiritual  death 
came  to  him;  and  mortal  death 
came  to  him.  This  was  the  first  great 
crisis  in  the  history  of  mankind.  In- 
deed, it  may  be  said  to  have  produced 
mankind. 

In  order  for  him  to  get  back  to  the 
place  whence  he  began,  it  was  neces- 
sary that  there  should  be  an  atonement 
for  this  disobedience. 

Quite  obviously,  Adam  could  not  re- 
trace his  steps;  he  could  not  un-eat.  He 
was  mortal.  No  matter  how  good  any 
of  his  children  might  be,  they,  also 
mortal,  had  no  more  power  than  had 
he.  So,  to  pay  for  the  disobedience,  it 
took  a  Being  conceived  by  the  Infinite, 
not  subject  to  death  as  were  Adam's 
posterity;  someone  to  whom  death  was 
subject;  someone  born  of  woman  but  yet 
divine.  He  alone  could  make  the  sacri- 
fice which  would  enable  us  to  have  our 
bodies  and  our  spirits  reunited  in  the 
due  time  of  the  Lord  and  then  go  back 
to  the  Father,  thus  reunited;  and  final- 
ly, body  and  spirit  together,  we  might 
go  on  through  all  the  eternities. 

Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  the  one  who 
was  chosen  before  the  world  was,  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  to  come 
to  earth  to  perform  this  service,  to  con- 
quer mortal  death  which  would  atone 
for  the  Fall,  that  the  spirit  of  man  could 
recover  his  body,  so  reuniting  them. 

(Note:  Speaking  to  the  multitude  in 
Jerusalem,  Jesus  said: 

("Therefore  doth  my  Father  love  me, 
because  I  lay  down  my  life,  that  I 
might  take  it  again. 

("No  man  taketh  it  from  me,  but  I 
lay  it  down  of  myself.  I  have  power  to 
lay  it  down,  and  I  have  power  to  take 
it  again.  This  commandment  have  I 
received  of  my  Father."  [John  10:17- 
18.]) 

That  is  the  reason  why,  however  good 
any  man,  son  of  Adam,  may  have  been, 
he  could  not  do  the  things,  make  the 


atonement  that  would  bring  us  back 
into  the  presence  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  Again,  he  could  not  un-eat  the 
fruit.  Jesus  was  not  the  son  of  Adam, 
but  of  the  Father. 

As  John  was  baptizing  in  the  Jordan, 
he  saw  Jesus  approaching  and  ex- 
claimed: 

".  .  .  Behold  the  Lamb  of  God,  which 
taketh  away  the  sin  of  the  world." 
(Ibid.,  1:29.)  The  record  does  not  say 
sins. 

We  frequently  are  told  and  under- 
stand that  not  alone  did  Christ  atone 
for  that  "original  sin,"  so-called,  but 
that  he  atones  for  our  sins,  generally. 
As  I  understand  it,  so  far  as  the  resur- 
rection is  concerned,  the  overcoming  of 
mortal  death,  he  did  atone  for  our  sins. 
That  is  to  say,  no  matter  what  we  do 
here  on  earth,  even  though  we  commit 
the  unpardonable  sin,  yet  the  atonement 
of  Christ  will  for  that  purpose  and  to 
that  end  atone  for  our  sins,  and  so  will 
bring  about  our  resurrection.  But  after 
the  resurrection,  then  we  have  to  be 
judged  according  to  the  deeds  of  the 
flesh,  good  or  bad.  On  the  judgment 
day  we  will  receive  our  rewards  or  pun- 
ishments; we  must  pay  for  our  own 
sins. 

So  as  I  conceive  it,  we  must  stand 
adamant  for  the  doctrine  of  the  atone- 
ment of  Jesus  the  Christ,  for  the  divinity 
of  his  conception,  for  his  sinless  life, 
and  for,  shall  I  say,  the  divinity  of  his 
death,  his  voluntary  surrender  of  life. 
He  was  not  killed;  he  gave  up  his  life. 

You  know,  I  think  that  all  through 
his  life,  he  gave  evidences  of  his  divin- 
ity, his  divine  powers  and  authority.  It 
is  true  that  frequently  other  prophets 
who  were  not  divinely  begotten  had 
done  some  of  his  works.  If  you  run  it 
over  in  your  mind,  you  will  remember 
that  by  walking  on  the  water  he  de- 
fied gravity.  You  will  remember  his 
control  over  the  elements,  the  winds, 
and  the  waves,  and  the  storm.  You 
will  remember  the  exercise  of  his  cre- 
ative powers,  for  he  created  food  when 
he  fed  the  five  thousand  and  the  four 
thousand,  and  he  made  wine  out  of 
water.  You  will  remember  how  he 
cured  the  halt,  the  lame,  the  blind. 
You  will  recall  how  he  brought  life 
back  to  the  lifeless.  You  will  recall  his 
great  duel  with  Satan  which  he  won. 


24 

Friday,  September  30 

You  will  recall  his  great  victory,  when 
he  died  and  was  resurrected, 

I  often  think  that  one  of  the  most 
beautiful  things  in  the  Christ's  life  was 
his  words  on  the  cross,  when,  suffering 
under  the  agony  of  a  death  that  is  said 
to  have  been  the  most  painful  that  the 
ancients  could  devise,  death  on  the 
cross,  after  he  had  been  unjustly,  ille- 
gally, contrary  to  all  the  rules  of  mercy, 
condemned  and  then  crucified,  when  he 
had  been  nailed  to  the  cross  and  was 
about  to  give  up  his  life,  he  said  to  his 
Father  in  heaven,  as  those  who  were 
within  hearing  testify:  ".  .  .  Father,  for- 
give them;  for  they  know  not  what  they 
do."  (Luke  23:34.) 

It  is  our  mission,  perhaps  the  most 
fundamental  purpose  of  our  work,  to 
bear  constant  testimony  of  Jesus  the 
Christ.  We  must  never  permit  to  enter 
into  our  thoughts  and  certainly  not  into 
our  teachings,  the  idea  that  he  was 
merely  a  great  teacher,  a  great  philoso- 
pher, the  builder  of  a  great  system  of 
ethics.  It  is  our  duty,  day  after  day, 
year  in  and  year  out,  always  to  declare 
that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  the  Christ 
who  brought  redemption  to  the  world 
and  to  all  the  inhabitants  thereof. 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  I  know  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that 
he  was  divinely  begotten,  was  born, 
lived  his  life,  was  crucified,  and  on  the 
third  day  arose,  the  first  fruits  of  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

resurrection,  thus  making  it  possible  for 
all  of  us  to  be  resurrected. 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  he,  with  the 
Father,  appeared  to  the  young  Prophet 
and  opened  up  the  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
the  restored  gospel. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  restoration 
of  the  priesthood. 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  the  keys 
and  powers  which  Joseph  the  Prophet 
held  as  President  of  the  Church,  as 
prophet,  seer,  and  revelator,  have  come 
down  from  him  until  now  with  the 
Presidency  of  this  Church,  down  to  and 
including  our  present  President,  David 
O.  McKay. 

God  give  us  all  increasingly,  day  by 
day,  this  testimony.  God  give  us  the 
power  and  the  faith  and  the  courage 
always  to  declare,  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  only  name  under  heaven  given 
among  men  by  which  we  must  be  saved. 

This  is  one  of  the  prime  duties  of 
this  people.  That  we  may  fulfil  it  and 
meet  it  unto  the  last  degree,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened,  a 
great  testimony  regarding  Jesus  the 
Christ,  is  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


j  am  very  grateful,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  for  this  won- 
derful  opportunity  again  to 
bear  you  my  testimony  to  the 
(j  divinity  of  this  work.  I  have 
thoroughly  enjoyed  the  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne  this  morn- 
ing and  now  the  testimony  of  President 
Clark. 

I  was  very  pleased  to  hear  our  German 
brethren  and  sisters  furnishing  the  music 
this  morning.  I  thought  at  one  time 
that  perhaps  there  might  be  some  in  the 
choir  to  whom  I  taught  in  English  my 
favorite  song,  "Love  At  Home";  but 
after  hearing  their  voices,  they  all 
sounded  so  young  and  fresh  I  got  to 


thinking  of  how  long  ago  that  was — 
over  fifty  years — so  I  decided  that  none 
of  them  were  born  at  the  time  I  taught 
that  English  class.  I  am  grateful  for 
the  great  missionary  work  that  is  being 
done  in  the  Church.  I  am  grateful 
especially  for  the  gospel,  and  as  I  say, 
this  opportunity  of  again  bearing  my 
testimony  of  its  divinity. 

I  am  thankful,  especially  for  my  par- 
entage and  for  my  brothers  and  sisters. 
About  a  week  or  ten  days  ago,  Sister 
McKay  and  I  were  up  at  the  old  home; 
we  had  some  visitors.  They  came  in. 
We  knew  them,  not  too  well;  I  had  met 
them  before.  We  were  delighted  to  say 
some  things  about  the  old  home,  about 


ELDER  THOl 

our  childhood  experiences  there,  espe- 
cially those  with  President  McKay,  and 
when  we  got  through  and  were  saying 
good-bye,  the  brother  there  held  my 
hand  a  while.  Then  he  said,  "You 
have  been  blessed  with  understanding 
parents."  I  had  not  heard  it  described 
just  that  way  before,  not  in  so  many 
words,  and  I  told  him  so.  I  said, 
"Yes,  not  only  have  I  been  blessed  with 
understanding  parents,  but  with  a 
kind,  black-eyed,  beautiful,  understand- 
ing wife." 

I  am  very  happy  for  this  opportunity 
to  bear  testimony  to  the  goodness  of  my 
parents,  my  wife,  our  family,  my  broth- 
ers and  sisters,  and  children  and  grand- 
children, for  their  kindness  to  me.  I 
can  truthfully  say  that  there  has  been 
love  in  the  home,  there  in  the  old 
Huntsville  home. 

My  favorite  song,  as  some  of  you  al- 
ready know,  is  "Love  at  Home." 

There  is  beauty  all  around 
When  there's  love  at  home; 
There  is  joy  in  every  sound 
When  there's  love  at  home. 
Peace  and  plenty  here  abide, 
Smiling  sweet  on  every  side. 
Time  doth  softly,  sweetly  glide 
When  there's  love  at  home. 

In  the  cottage  there  is  joy 
When  there's  love  at  home; 
Hate  and  envy  ne'er  annoy 
When  there's  love  at  home. 
Roses  bloom  beneath  our  feet; 
All  the  earth's  a  garden  sweet, 
Making  life  a  bliss  complete 
When  there's  love  at  home. 

Kindly  heaven  smiles  above 
When  there's  love  at  home; 
All  the  world  is  filled  with  love 
When  there's  love  at  home. 
Sweeter  sings  the  brooklet  by; 
Brighter  beams  the  azure  sky; 
Oh,  there's  One  who  smiles  on  high 
When  there's  love  at  home. 

Yes,  I  am  grateful  for  my  parents, 
my  wife,  and  my  children.  God  bless 
our  mothers,  our  wives,  not  only  in  the 
Church  but  throughout  the  world. 
Whenever  you  find  a  leader  among  the 
men,  you  will  find  that  there  is  a  good 
wife  at  his  side.  She  may  not  be  men- 
tioned; she  may  not  be  very  well-known; 
the  man  gets  the  credit,  the  plaudits  of 
the  people,  but  I  tell  you  when  the  final 


4S  E.  McKAY  25 

score  is  made  up,  perhaps  the  wife  will 
receive  greater  mention,  greater  bless- 
ings than  the  husband.  So  do  not  forget 
these  wives  and  our  mothers,  you 
brethren. 

I  was  so  happy  to  hear  all  about  the 
movements  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  in 
Europe.  Sister  McKay  read  to  me  all 
we  could  get  out  of  the  newspapers,  and 
I  listened  to  the  radio  very  carefully.  I 
received  a  thrill,  brothers  and  sisters, 
when  they  were  in  Berlin,  and  I  do  not 
know  who  had  charge  of  the  broadcast, 
but  there  came  over  the  radio  the  sing- 
ing of  our  members  in  Berlin.  They 
burst  forth  in  song  to  express  their  ap- 
preciation for  this  great  event  in  their 
district.  I  was  especially  overcome  when 
I  heard  the  choir  had  been  able  to  sing 
to  those  refugees.  God  bless  them.  There 
are  thousands  and  thousands  of  them 
there  that  need  such  music  now,  and 
that  need  the  gospel.  I  know  what  kind 
of  people  some  of  them  are. 

On  my  second  mission  over  there  I 
had  the  privilege  of  visiting  the  mem- 
bers up  in  Koenigsberg,  where  they  had, 
I  think  I  may  say,  one  of  the  finest 
choirs  in  the  Church.  To  hear  those 
brothers  and  sisters  sing,  you  would 
know  they  are  of  the  house  of  Israel. 
We  went  on  up  farther  north  and  had 
the  privilege  of  crossing  the  boundary 
line  from  the  Memel  Branch  into 
Russia.  The  people  there  were  so  kind. 
They  are  ready  for  the  gospel,  so  do  not 
be  hard  on  them  (the  people  are  not  re- 
sponsible for  what  the  leaders  do),  but 
pray  for  them. 

I  am  so  happy  and  thankful  that 
our  Church  school,  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity, has  a  class  in  Russian.  I  hope 
more  of  the  young  men  will  prepare.  I 
am  not  saying  that  anything  might 
happen,  but  so  many  things  are  happen- 
ing and  are  happening  so  fast  that  we 
cannot  tell.  It  is  a  good  thing  to  be 
prepared.  I  often  thought,  while  in  the 
mission  field,  of  some  of  the  prophecies 
that  have  been  made  with  reference  to 
the  conclusion  here  on  this  earth,  "when 
the  end  shall  come";  for  example,  the 
gospel,  it  says,  of  the  kingdom  shall  be 
preached  to  all  nations,  "and  then  shall 
the  end  come." 

Well,  I  visited  in  Europe,  Germany, 
Austria,  Hungary,  France,  Switzerland; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


26 

Friday,  September  30 

all  included  in  the  then  Swiss-German 
Mission.  There  are  millions  of  people 
there.  I  thought,  "Well,  if  the  end  does 
not  come  before  all  of  these  people  re- 
ceive the  gospel,  I  guess  it  will  be  a  long 
while."  But  judging  from  events  that 
have  recently  happened,  especially  with 
my  brother,  President  David  O.  McKay, 
visiting  so  many  countries  of  the  world 
in  such  a  short  time,  the  broadcasts  of 
our  choir  and  their  wonderful  visit  over 
there,  the  gospel  may  be  preached  to  all 
people  before  we  realize  it 

I  am  so  thankful  for  the  temple  that 
has  been  established  in  Bern,  the  beau- 
tiful capital  of  Switzerland,  beautiful 
Switzerland.  It  is  a  great  little  country. 
If  I  had  been  consulted  on  the  location, 
(I  am  so  thankful  now  I  was  not)  I 
believe  I  would  not  have  thought  of 
Bern.  The  larger  branches  and  most 
of  the  members  are  outside  of  that  city. 
But  Bern  is  the  capital  where  are  lo- 
cated the  beautiful  government  build- 
ings. There  is  one  of  the  finest  gene- 
alogical libraries  that  I  have  ever  had 
the  privilege  of  visiting  located  in  Bern. 
I  visited  there  and  met  the  head  man. 
We  visited  so  long  we  could  not  get 
away.  The  telephone  rang,  and  his  wife 
asked  why  he  did  not  come  home  to 
lunch.  She  was  not  very  happy  about 
it,  but  he  told  her  to  never  mind  wait- 
ing any  longer,  that  he  would  get  his 
lunch  down  near  the  building  that  day. 

They  are  anxious  and  ready  to  ex- 
plain the  work  that  they  have  done 
there  already  in  genealogical  work.  I 
believe  from  all  I  have  heard  and 
studied  that  the  records  in  Switzerland 
that  have  been  kept  in  the  various 
churches  are  the  most  complete  or  as 
complete  as  any  others  in  the  world, 
and  in  Germany,  also.  Now  we  have 
the  modern  inventions  that  are  able  to 
film  these  records.  Before  it  was  so 
difficult  for  our  members  to  decipher 
them;  the  churches  are  not  heated  and 
dimly  lighted.  Our  members  had  great 
difficulty  going  down  in  the  archives 
and  getting  the  names.  But  it  has  been 
changed.  The  records  have  been  filmed, 
and  thousands  of  names  are  ready  to  be 
taken  to  the  temple. 


First  Day 

And  may  I  say  this,  many  of  the 
members  are  already  here,  and  I  sup- 
pose over  eighty  per  cent  of  them  have 
come  here  with  hundreds  of  names  to 
work  for  in  the  temple.  I  love  these 
members;  they  are  temple  workers;  they 
are  temple-minded;  and  I  am  so  happy 
and  thankful  for  the  completion  of  this 
temple  in  Bern. 

God  bless  the  brethren  for  their  in- 
spiration in  building  it  there.  I  am 
thankful  that  I  have  had  the  privilege 
of  bearing  my  testimony  to  so  many 
people  over  in  Europe.  I  was  there  on 
three  different  missions. 

I  remember  very  well  the  last  testi- 
mony I  bore  in  Berlin,  at  the  time  of 
World  War  II  in  1939.  At  the  conclu- 
sion of  the  meeting,  a  stranger  spoke  to 
me.  He  appeared  to  be  a  very  intelli- 
gent man.  He  said,  "You  ought  not  to 
talk  to  people  that  way;  they  will  be- 
lieve you."  I  told  him  of  the  goodness 
of  the  gospel,  and  that  all  mankind 
would  be  happier  if  they  followed  the 
plan  of  salvation,  as  it  had  been  re- 
vealed in  the  gospel  and  added,  "I  do 
hope  they  follow  my  testimony."  I 
asked  him  his  name,  and  he  said,  "Never 
mind." 

Scores  of  people  since  have  arrived 
here  in  Zion  and  are  living  examples 
of  the  testimony  that  I  bore  in  Berlin. 

I  could  mention  many  names,  but 
time  will  not  permit.  However,  I  have 
lived  to  see  the  benefits  realized  by  those 
who  have  accepted  the  gospel. 

The  gospel  is  true  and  given  to  us  for 
our  happiness  in  this  life. 

God  lives;  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  head 
of  this  Church.  I  bear  you  this  testi- 
mony, and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak  to  us, 
following  Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  who  has  just 
spoken.  Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  follow  Elder  Le- 
Grand Richards. 


27 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


-T'i 


|Y  BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS:  I 

rejoice  with  you  in  the 
wonderful  testimonies  and 
instructions  we  have  re- 
ceived in  this  conference. 
I  pray  that  the  Lord  will 
let  me  have  the  spirit  of  testimony 
bearing  for  the  few  moments  that  I 
stand  before  you. 

After  listening  to  the  beautiful  dis- 
course here  this  afternoon  by  President 
Clark  on  the  life  and  the  mission  of  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  remem- 
bering what  President  McKay  said  this 
morning,  as  he  counted  his  blessings  and 
advised  us  to  count  ours,  and  he  put  at 
the  head  of  the  list  in  counting  his 
blessings  the  great  work  of  the  Master, 
I  am  sure  that  all  of  us  as  Latter-day 
Saints  feel  that  the  greatest  event  of 
recorded  history  of  all  time  was  the 
life  and  the  mission  of  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world. 

His  work  is  not  yet  finished.  We  read 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon  that — 

.  .  .  my  work  is  not  yet  finished;  neither 
shall  it  be  until  the  end  of  man,  neither 
from  that  time  henceforth  and  forever.  (2 
Nephi  29:9.) 

And  I  think  today  of  him  as  the  Cre- 
ator of  worlds,  as  we  are  told  in  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  unnumbered  to 
man,  "but  all  things  are  numbered  un- 
to me,"  the  Lord  said,  for  I  made  them 
and  by  the  power  of  mine  Only  Begot- 
ten, created  I  them.  (See  Moses  1:33, 
35.) 

Then  I  think  of  his  great  atonement 
and  of  the  promises  that  yet  await  us 
of  his  unfinished  work.  You  remember 
when  he  stood  before  the  chief  priest 
of  the  Jews,  Caiaphas,  and  Caiaphas 
said, 

...  I  adjure  thee  by  the  living  God,  that 
thou  tell  us  whether  thou  be  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  God.  (Matt.  26:63.) 

And  Jesus  answered, 

Thou  hast  said:  nevertheless  I  say  unto 
you,  Hereafter  shall  ye  see  the  Son  of  man 
sitting  on  the  right  hand  of  power,  and 

coming  in  the  clouds  of  heaven.  (Ibid., 
26:64.) 


It  is  this  "coming  in  the  clouds  of 
heaven,"  and  the  work  that  is  neces- 
sary to  be  done  to  prepare  for  his  com- 
ing that  I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words 
about  this  afternoon.  Let  us  turn  to 
the  holy  scriptures  for  the  promises  of 
the  resurrection,  and  President  Clark  has 
referred  to  the  resurrection.  Think  of 
getting  our  bodies  back  out  of  the  grave 
and  being  reunited  with  our  loved  ones, 
and  then  read  the  testimony  of  John 
when  he  was  banished  upon  the  Isle 
of  Patmos,  describing  that  time: 

And  God  shall  wipe  away  all  tears  from 
their  eyes;  and  there  shall  be  no  more 
death,  neither  sorrow,  nor  crying,  neither 
shall  there  be  any  more  pain,  for  the  former 
things  are  passed  away.  .  .  . 

He  that  overcometh  shall  inherit  all 
things:  and  I  will  be  his  God,  and  he  shall 
be  my  son.  (Rev.  21:4,  7.) 

Then  we  read  farther  that  it  is  they 
who  die  in  Christ  who  shall  come  forth 
in  the  morning  of  the  first  resurrection, 
but  that  the  rest  of  the  dead  live  not 
again  until  the  thousand  years  are 
ended. 

What  is  there  in  this  world  that  we 
could  do  as  individuals  to  repay  for  the 
privilege  of  coming  forth  in  the  morn- 
ing of  the  first  resurrection  and  receiv- 
ing our  loved  ones  and  being  united 
with  them  and  with  the  servants  of  the 
Living  God,  and  with  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world,  when  he  comes  in  the  clouds 
of  heaven? 

If  we  understood  really  what  the  gos- 
pel is,  we  would  know  why  Jesus  said 
that  the  merchantman  seeking  costly 
pearls  would  sell  all  that  he  had  in 
order  that  he  might  acquire  it  and  called 
it  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  we 
would  also  understand  what  he  meant 
when  he  said, 

For  what  is  a  man  profited,  if  he  shall 
gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his  own 
soul?  or  what  shall  a  man  give  in  exchange 
for  his  soul?  (Matt.  16:26.) 

We  just  do  not  have  the  capacity  to 
appreciate  the  great  blessings  that  await 
I  he  faithful,  for  the  Lord  said  to  the 
Prophet: 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  September  30 

Great  shall  be  their  reward  and  eternal 
shall  be  their  glory.  (D  &  C  76:6.) 

In  this  great  preparation  the  Master 
is  to  make,  it  requires  that  he  have  an 
organization.  He  called  his  twelve, 
humble  men  they  were,  but  they  were 
men  who  could  be  taught,  and  they  were 
men  full  of  faith,  and  they  were  true 
to  the  testimony  that  they  had,  and 
they  went  forth  fearlessly  even  until 
each  one  gave  his  life,  except  the  Apostle 
John,  who  was  privileged  to  tarry  until 
the  Savior  should  come,  for  the  testi- 
mony of  Jesus  that  burned  in  their  souls. 

I  sit  here  among  these  brethren  who 
are  special  witnesses  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  unto  the  world.  I  do  not  believe 
there  is  one  of  them  who  would  not 
give  his  life  willingly  for  the  testi- 
mony of  Jesus.  I  know  that  the  Presi- 
dency of  this  Church  never  has  to  ask 
any  of  these  men  if  he  is  willing  to  go 
here  or  there  or  assume  this  responsi- 
bility or  that  responsibility.  They  could 
not  find  men  in  all  the  world  who 
would  be  more  willing  to  accept  the 
assignments  that  come  to  them.  I  know 
they  are  men  of  God.  I  know  the  joy 
of  the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that 
rapture  that  fills  your  bosom  as  you  feel 
yourself  in  his  very  presence.  I  know 
it  is  worth  every  effort  that  we  can  put 
forth. 

In  our  meeting  in  the  temple  yester- 
day, one  of  the  Presidency  indicated 
that  he  thought  one  of  the  things  we 
needed  to  teach  the  Saints  most  was  to 
live  worthy  to  go  to  the  temples.  We 
are  building  temples.  They  are  great 
institutions  in  the  Church,  and  we 
should  teach  our  young  people  to  ap- 
preciate them.  I  had  this  additional 
thought  that  what  our  people,  who  have 
been  through  the  temple,  need  to  know 
is  the  sacredness  of  the  obligations  they 
enter  into  in  these  holy  temples. 

When  they  agree  there  to  consecrate 
all  that  they  have  and  all  that  they  are 
for  the  building  up  of  the  kingdom  of 
God,  I  do  believe  that  in  the  eyes  of 
the  Lord  they  are  not  idle  words;  that 
we  ought  to  put  first  our  duty  and  re- 
sponsibility to  the  priesthood  that  we 
bear  and  to  the  building  of  the  king- 
dom of  God,  and  all  other  things  ought 
to  be  secondary  unto  that.  And  if  we 
realize  this,  and  we  realize  the  majesty 
of  this  great  work  in  which  we  are  en- 


Firsl  Day 

gaged,  it  would  not  be  difficult  for  us 
to  do  that  very  thing. 

I  have  great  faith  in  the  fulfilment  of 
the  prophecies.  I  think  of  the  words 
of  Jesus  as  he  walked  along  the  way  to 
Emmaus  following  his  crucifixion.  The 
eyes  of  the  two  disciples,  as  you  will  re- 
call, were  holden  that  they  could  not 
recognize  him,  and  as  he  heard  them 
talking  of  the  things  that  had  been  done 
in  Jerusalem,  (his  crucifixion),  he  an- 
swered, ".  .  .  O  fools,  and  slow  of  heart 
to  believe  all  that  the  prophets  have 
spoken:"  And  then  he  explained  to  them 
from  the  scriptures  the  words  of  Moses 
and  the  prophets  how  that  they  had 
all  testified  of  him  and  of  his  work. 
Then  we  are  told  he  opened  their  un- 
derstanding, that  they  might  under- 
stand the  scriptures.  (See  Luke  24.) 

And  then  we  have  the  words  of  Peter 
in  which  he  said, 

We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of  proph- 
ecy; whereunto  ye  do  well  that  ye  take  heed, 
as  unto  a  light  that  shineth  in  a  dark  place, 
until  the  day  dawn,  and  the  day  star  arise 
in  your  hearts: 

Knowing  this  first,  that  no  prophecy  of 
the  scripture  is  of  any  private  interpreta- 
tion. 

For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old  time 
by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy  men  of  God 
spake  as  they  were  moved  by  the  Holy 
Ghost.  (II  Peter  1:19-21.) 

And  that  is  what  makes  the  word  of 
prophecy  more  sure  than  anything  else 
in  all  this  world. 

We  ought  to  analyze  the  prophecies 
with  respect  to  this  great  latter-day  dis- 
pensation and  the  preparation  for  the 
coming  of  the  Son  of  Man  as  he  testi- 
fied to  Caiaphas  that  he  would  come  in 
the  clouds  of  heaven. 

I  would  like  to  read  to  you  a  state- 
ment about  the  need  of  a  prophet.  This 
is  from  a  minister.  While  I  was  in  the 
South,  two  conventions  were  held  by 
one  of  the  large  churches  in  Atlanta, 
Georgia,  and  in  one  of  them  Bishop 
Warren  A.  Candler,  among  other  things, 
made  this  statement: 

"We  need  the  reappearance  of  proph- 
ets sent  from  God." 

Then  Dr.  Ainsworth  discussed  the 
condition  of  the  world  and  the  need  of 
something  to  arrest  the  world  from  its 
present  decadent  condition,  and  asked 
these  words: 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


29 


"Never  in  the  nation's  history  was  the 
arresting  voice  of  a  prophet  of  God 
more  needed  than  it  is  today." 

Then  here  are  the  words  of  a  min- 
ister in  England  a  few  years  ago: 

"We  all  recognize  that  something  has 
got  to  be  done,  for  at  the  moment  we 
are  in  a  plight  where  our  earthly  leaders 
falter,  our  people  drift  and  die.  We 
cannot  forget  that  when  the  blind  set 
out  to  lead  the  blind,  chances  are  that 
both  will  find  themselves  in  a  ditch. 
A  dictator  being  out  of  the  question, 
what  about  a  prophet?  The  prophet 
never  is  self-appointed.  It  is  well  to 
keep  that  in  mind.  Nor  is  he  chosen 
of  his  fellows.  Always  he  is  heaven- 
sent; yet  I  am  cheered  at  the  thought 
that  he  has  the  knack  of  appearing  at 
the  right  time.  That  being  so,  I  in- 
cline to  the  belief  that  our  prophet  must 
surely  be  getting  ready  for  us.  Let  us 
not  forget  that;  hope  and  pray  as  we 
will  for  his  coming.  Men  have  an  old 
habit  of  greeting  the  true  prophet  with 
stones.  We  need  not  be  surprised  if 
an  old-fashioned  welcome  awaits  the 
prophet  of  our  day.  No  one  can  say 
when  such  a  prophet  will  come,  but  of 
our  need  of  him  there  is  no  question." 

We  find  people  today  who  say,  "Well, 
we  could  accept  your  message,  but  we 
cannot  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  prophet."  If  they  believed  in  the  pre- 
existent  life,  they  could  then  under- 
stand. When  Jeremiah  was  called  as 
a  boy  to  be  a  prophet,  he  could  not 
understand  it,  and  the  Lord  said  to  him, 

Before  I  formed  thee  in  the  belly  I  knew 
thee;  and  before  thou  earnest  forth  out  of 
the  womb  I  sanctified  thee,  and  I  ordained 
thee  a  prophet  unto  the  nations.  (Jer.  1=5.) 

The  Lord  not  only  knew  Jeremiah, 
but  he  also  knew  Joseph  Smith.  Three 
thousand  years  ago  the  Lord  revealed 
unto  Joseph  who  was  sold  into  Egypt, 
that  in  the  latter-days,  out  of  his  loins, 
he  would  raise  up  a  choice  seer  and  a 
prophet  like  unto  Moses.  (2  Nephi 
3:11,  14-17.) 

And  we  read  in  holy  writ  that  there 
was  no  prophet  in  all  Israel  like  unto 
Moses  because  Moses  talked  with  God 
face  to  face,  and  that  is  the  kind  of 
prophet  the  Lord  promised  Joseph  he 
would  raise  up  out  of  his  loins  in  the 
latter  days,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was 


this  promised  Prophet  is  our  testimony 
to  the  world.  The  things  that  Jesus  and 
the  prophets  declared  would  have  to  be 
accomplished  before  his  coming,  could 
not  be  accomplished  without  a  prophet 
through  whom  the  Lord  could  work. 

We  read  in  Malachi  where  the  Lord 
said  through  his  prophet  that  he  would 
send  a  messenger  to  prepare  the  way  for 
his  coming,  and  swiftly  he  would  come 
to  his  temple.  Who  but  a  prophet 
could  be  this  messenger?  Has  there  ever 
been  a  time  that  he  came  swiftly  to 
his  temple?  How  could  the  temple 
be  prepared  for  his  coming  without  a 
prophet?  This  promise  has  reference 
to  his  second  coming,  for  Malachi  adds: 

.  .  .  who  may  abide  the  day  of  his  com- 
ing? and  who  shall  stand  when  he  ap- 
peareth?  for  he  is  like  a  refiner's  fire,  and 
like  fullers'  soap.  (Mai.  3:2.) 

So  in  his  last  coming,  he  will  come 
swiftly  to  his  temple.  He  will  come  to 
sit  in  judgment,  as  Malachi  saw,  and 
Malachi's  thoughts,  going  along  that 
same  line,  saw  the  coming  of  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  in  the 
latter-days  when 

...  all  the  proud,  yea,  and  all  that  do 
wickedly,  shall  be  stubble:  and  the  day  that 
cometh  shall  burn  them  up,  saith  the  Lord 
of  hosts,  that  it  shall  leave  them  neither 
root  nor  branch.  (Ibid.,  4:1.) 

And  then  he  goes  on  to  say  that  be- 
fore that  day  he  would  send  Elijah  the 
prophet  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers 
to  the  children.  Now  why  does  not  the 
world  believe  that  Elijah  will  come? 
They  can  believe  that  he  was  taken  to 
heaven  in  the  clouds  of  heaven,  in  a 
flaming  chariot,  and  here  is  the  promise 
that  he  should  come  in  the  latter  days. 
And  we  bear  witness  that  Elijah  did 
come,  and  because  of  the  knowledge  and 
the  information  he  brought,  we  continue 
to  build  these  temples  and  do  this  great 
work  that  is  being  done  in  the  temples 
of  the  Lord. 

When  Peter  was  speaking  to  those 
who  had  put  to  death  the  Christ,  he 
said, 

Repent  ye  therefore,  and  be  converted, 
that  your  sins  may  be  blotted  out,  when  the 
times  of  refreshing  shall  come  from  the 
presence  of  the  Lord; 


30  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  September  30 

And  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ,  which 
before  was  preached  unto  you.  (Acts  3:19- 
20-)  v: 

Now,  remember  he  had  already  been 
among  them.  He  had  already  been 
crucified,  and  here  is  the  promise  of 
Peter  that  the  Lord  would  send  him 
again,  but  he  adds: 

Whom  the  heaven  must  receive  until  the 
times  of  restitution  of  all  things,  which  God 
hath  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his  holy 
prophets  since  the  world  began.  (Ibid., 
3:21.) 

How  can  one  believe  the  Holy  Bible 
and  not  believe  that  one  of  the  prepara- 
tory things  for  the  coming  of  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  would  be  a  "restitu- 
tion of  all  things  which  God  hath 
spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his  holy 
prophets  since  the  world  began." 

We  have  mentioned  the  coming  of 
Elijah.  President  Clark  mentioned  the 
restoration  of  the  priesthood,  the  Aa- 
ronic  and  the  Melchizedek,  and  then 
there  was  the  kingdom  to  be  set  up  that 
Daniel  saw  in  the  last  days  that  should 
become  as  a  great  mountain  and  fill  the 
whole  earth,  and  how  could  that  be 
without  a  prophet  of  God? 

Then  there  was  the  new  record  of 
Joseph  to  come  forth  to  be  joined  with 
the  record  of  Judah  according  to  the 
command  the  Lord  gave  to  Ezekiel,  and 
how  could  that  be  without  a  prophet 
who  should  do  this  work,  for  the  Lord 
said  that  he  would  bring  it  forth  and 
he  would  join  it  to  the  record  of  Judah, 
and  he  would  make  them  one  in  his 
hands.  (Ezek.  37:16-17.)  The  Lord 
works  through  his  servants,  the  prophets. 

These  are  only  a  few  of  the  things 
the  Lord  promised  to  do  before  the  com- 
ing of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  We 
bear  witness  to  the  world  that  this 
Prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  raised  up  of  the 
Lord,  was  in  very  deed  the  instrument 
that  the  Lord  had  in  waiting  through 
the  centuries,  in  the  pre-existent  state 
when  the  Lord  stood  in  the  midst  of 
the  spirits  and  said  to  Abraham: 

"These  I  will  make  my  rulers";  for 
there  were  many  of  the  noble  and  great 
ones  there,  and  then  he  added:  "Abra- 


First  Day 

ham,  thou  art  one  of  them;  thou  wast 
chosen  before  thou  wast  born."  (Abra- 
ham 3:23.) 

Jesus  knew  that  he  would  work 
through  the  instrumentality  of  his  serv- 
ants just  as  he  did  when  he  called  the 
Twelve,  and  that  is  why  he  said,  as  he 
stood  overlooking  Jerusalem, 

0  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that  killest 
the  prophets,  and  stonest  them  which  are 
sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would  I  have 
gathered  thy  children  together,  even  as  a 
hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings, 
and  ye  would  not  I 

Behold,  your  house  is  left  unto  you  deso- 
late. 

For  I  say  unto  you,  Ye  shall  not  see  me 
henceforth,  [notwithstanding  his  promise] — 
Ye  shall  not  see  me  henceforth,  till  ye  shall 
say,  Blessed  is  he  that  cometh  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord.  (Matt.  23:37-39.) 

We  have  had  some  wonderful  testi- 
monies of  people  of  standing  on  the 
great  work  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  has 
done.  I  cannot  take  time  to  go  into 
that.  I  will  just  give  you  this  one 
thought.  The  other  day  Brother  Levi 
Edgar  Young  showed  me  a  history  of 
the  state  of  Vermont,  and  under  the 
caption,  Sharon,  we  read  these  words: 

Sharon  enters  the  Hall  of  Fame  by  being 
the  birthplace  of  one  of  the  immortals  of 
American  history,  Joseph  Smith,  who 
founded  the  Mormon  religion. 

The  world  is  beginning  to  recognize 
the  power  and  the  spirit  that  is  in  this 
work,  a  power  which  causes  every  man 
to  be  willing  to  devote  himself  to  the 
building  of  the  kingdom  which  is  the 
kind  of  power  and  influence  that  can 
overcome  the  world  and  establish  his 
kingdom  in  the  earth. 

1  bear  you  my  witness  that  this  is 
in  very  deed  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
and  that  he  is  at  the  helm,  and  I  do  it 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us. 


31 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

f; 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


ijipsEPH  Smith  was  and  is  a 
Wm  Prophet  of  the  Living  God.  We 
have  heard  witness  from  this 
pulpit  today  that  a  prophet 
should  be  called  to  lead,  guide, 
§Bm  and  direct  latter-day  Israel.  I 
believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  great 
spiritual  leader.  I  believe  that  he  is  the 
greatest  spiritual  leader  since  the  ad- 
vent of  Jesus  Christ  in  mortality.  I 
believe  there  are  four  great  events, 
spiritual  events,  if  you  please,  that  may 
form  the  cornerstones  of  this  great 
Church. 

First,  the  vision  to  the  boy,  Joseph, 
who  humbly  desired  to  know  truth  and 
secluded  himself  in  the  woods  to  pray. 
Four  weeks  ago  it  was  my  privilege  to 
stand  in  that  hallowed  place,  and  with 
bowed  head  and  gratitude  in  my  heart 
for  the  witness  that  has  come  to  me 
that  he  is  in  very  deed  a  prophet.  I 
visualized  in  my  mind's  eye  what  the 
experience  must  have  been  as  he  was 
visited  there  by  God,  the  Father,  the 
Father  of  our  spirits,  and  Jesus  Christ, 
his  divine  literal  Son.  This  was  in 
answer  to  his  humble  plea  and  prayer 
after  reading  the  first  chapter  of  James, 
and  the  fifth  verse: 

If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask 
of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally, 
and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given 
him.  (James  1:5.) 

But  there  was  a  provision, 

But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  waver- 
ing. For  he  that  wavereth  is  like  a  wave 
of  the  sea  driven  with  the  wind  and  tossed. 
(Ibid.,  1:6.) 

As  we  have  heard  testimony  borne 
today,  he  sealed  his  testimony  with  his 
life's  blood,  that  he  had  seen  God  the 
Father  and  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son. 

I  believe  in  that  vision. 

I  believe  the  second  great  event  is  the 
coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
It  was  not  written  by  Joseph  Smith  but 
translated  by  him  under  the  inspiration 
of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

It  was  my  privilege  a  few  months 
ago  to  visit  a  stake  in  Idaho.  I  listened 
to  a  young  man,   a  convert  to  the 


Church,  bear  witness  and  testimony  in 
the  morning  session,  and  I  shall  ever 
be  grateful  for  his  testimony.  During 
the  war  he  was  assigned  in  a  Naval 
unit  to  Logan,  Utah,  at  the  Utah  State 
Agricultural  College.  He  attended  one 
or  two  of  our  meetings,  and  then  he 
was  sent  for  further  training  to  San 
Diego.  He  became  acquainted  with  one 
of  our  chaplains,  Elder  John  Boud. 
John  Boud  presented  him  with  a  Book 
of  Mormon.  The  young  man,  after 
completing  his  service  for  Uncle  Sam, 
returned  to  his  home  in  the  East,  at- 
tending again  Columbia  University,  so 
he  might  finish  his  studies  and  gradu- 
ate. 

He  had  a  Jewish  professor  in  one  of 
his  classes.  He  presented  the  Book  of 
Mormon  to  this  professor  one  day.  He 
fingered  through  it  for  a  few  moments, 
then  he  made  the  statement  that  either 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  genius  or  he  was 
inspired.  The  young  man  said,  "Take 
it  and  read  it,  and  when  you  have  fin- 
ished with  it,  bring  it  back."  After 
several  weeks  he  did  that,  and  he  said 
to  the  young  man,  "Joseph  Smith  was 
inspired." 

The  young  man  further  investigated 
truth  as  each  soul  has  a  right  to  in- 
vestigate truth.  And  I  testify  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  shall  know 
truth,  if  you  have  that  desire.  And  so 
he  embraced  this  great  gospel  because 
he  had  that  witness. 

I  believe  the  third  great  spiritual 
event  was  the  organization  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  with  apostles, 
prophets,  pastors,  teachers,  evangelists 
and  so  forth.  And  you  have  my  witness 
and  testimony  this  afternoon  that  these 
men  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the 
Patriarch  to  the  Church,  are  in  very 
deed  prophets  of  the  Living  God,  repre- 
senting him  and  bearing  special  witness 
of  his  divinity  to  the  world  today. 

Then  I  believe,  finally,  the  fourth 
cornerstone  or  spiritual  event  was  the 
embodiment  of  the  truths  contained  in 
the  message  which  Joseph  Smith  gave 
to  the  world,  completely  revolutioniz- 
ing, if  you  please,  the  spiritual  things, 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  September  30 

something  that  was  definitely  contrary 
to  the  doctrines  of  men  which  had  been 
taught  up  to  that  period,  and  in  that 
gospel  we  have  a  form  or  a  pattern  for 
living.  For  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
teaches  me  how  to  live,  not  how  to  die, 
but  to  er.joy  life  here  in  this  mortal 
life,  with  all  its  problems,  with  all  its 
trials,  with  all  its  troubles. 

I  am  grateful  that  I  can  have  echo 
in  my  heart  and  in  my  mind  the  words 
of  Jesus: 

Come  unto  me,  .  .  .  Take  my  yoke  upon 
you,  .  .  .  For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my 
burden  is  light.  (Matt.  11:28-30.) 

Brothers  and  sisters,  may  we  be  further 
resolved  today,  as  we  leave  this  glorious 
conference,  more  to  spiritualize  our  lives 
upon  the  great  truths  which  are  pre- 
sented for  our  study,  contained  in  the 
Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  his  divine  Son,  our 
Elder  Brother,  that  he  is  the  Savior  of 
the  World,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and 
is  a  Prophet  of  God  and  that  those  who 
have  succeeded  him  in  that  position  in 
this  Church  have  been  men  of  God, 


First  Day 

even  prophets,  down  to  President  David 
O.  McKay  today. 

May  God  bless  us  that  that  testi- 
mony may  abide  within  our  hearts, 
that  we  will  be  equipped  to  meet  the 
various  trials  and  problems  which  may 
confront  us,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  divine 
Savior.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  concluded  speaking. 
The  congregation  will  now  join  in  sing- 
ing, "High  On  the  Mountain  Top." 
Elder  Alvin  Brey,  assistant  conductor 
of  the  German  Church  Choir,  will  lead 
us.  After  the  singing,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 
Young  will  speak  to  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn  "High  On  The 
Mountain  Top." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy  will  now  speak 
to  us,  and  Elder  Young  will  be  followed 
by  Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


AM  VERY  GLAD  TODAY  tO  knOW 

that  the  members  of  this 
choir  are  descendants  of  the 
German  people.  Many  of 
them  were  born  here,  it  is 
true.  It  always  reminds  me, 
when  I  hear  music  rendered  by  Ger- 
mans, of  the  lovely  words  of  Schiller: 
"You  weep  today,  but  you  have  peace 
in  your  hearts  tomorrow." 

We,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  have  a 
great  heritage,  and  the  object  of  our 
general  conferences  is  to  bring  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  together  to  hear  the 
word  of  God.  We  are  living  in  an  age 
when  the  truths  of  God  are  needed  to 
solve  the  problems  of  our  times.  Our 
fathers,  their  lips  glowing  with  the 
words  of  faith,  called  God  to  witness 
that  the  truths  of  the  gospel  would  be 
taught  our  children  of  the  future.  No 


age  of  history  has  been  more  complex 
than  that  of  today,  and  one  of  the  prob- 
lems is  how  to  teach  our  children  that 
they  may  grow  up  with  faith  in  God 
and  his  eternal  purposes.  There  are 
fundamental  truths  that  must  ever  be 
known  and  held  sacred  by  us  and  by 
the  children  of  the  world,  for  we  have 
been  passing  through  an  age  of  wars, 
and  never  in  all  history  has  the  hate  of 
man  for  man  been  so  universal  as  it 
has  been  the  last  few  years.  It  was  a 
writer  of  ancient  times,  500  years  B.C., 
who  wrote: 

The  age  in  which  we  live  should  be  dis- 
tinguished by  some  glorious  enterprise.  Let 
the  leaders  strive  to  put  an  end  to  our  pres- 
ent troubles.  Treaties  of  peace  are  insuffi- 
cient for  that  purpose.  They  may  retard, 
but  they  cannot  prevent  our  misfortunes.  We 
are  in  need  of  some  durable  plan  which 


ELDER  LEVI  ; 

will  forever  put  an  end  to  our  hostilities 
and  unite  us  by  the  lasting  ties  of  mutual 
affection  and  fidelity. 

It  is  only  a  few  weeks  ago  that  Albert 
Schweitzer  left  this  message  to  Ameri- 
cans, and  we  may  say  the  world,  for 
he  has  become  a  world  character: 

If  men  can  be  found  who  will  revolt 
against  the  spirit  of  thoughtlessness  and 
who  are  personalities  sound  enough  and 
profound  enough  to  let  the  ethical  ideals 
radiate  from  them  as  forces,  there  will  start 
an  activity  of  the  spirit  which  will  be  strong 
enough  to  evoke  a  new  mental  and  spiritual 
disposition  in  mankind. 

A  few  days  ago  we  had  the  oppor- 
tunity of  meeting  a  group  of  students 
who  are  doing  advanced  work  in  a 
well-known  university  who  came  with 
the  purpose  of  talking  over  a  few  ques- 
tions that  had  puzzled  them.  It  was  a 
pleasant  hour  which  we  spent  together, 
for  their  minds  were  open  to  the  great 
truths  of  religion.  They  were  not  all 
of  the  same  church,  and  one  of  them 
was  the  son  of  well-known  Jewish  par- 
ents. We  had  a  chance  of  speaking 
about  the  Holy  Bible  and  particularly 
the  book  of  Genesis,  part  of  which  came 
up  for  discussion.  We  all  agreed  that 
nothing  surpasses  the  first  chapter  of 
Genesis  in  sheer  beauty,  for  it  is  the 
divine  truth  that  God  lives  and  is  the 
Creator  of  heaven  and  earth  and  is  the 
Father  of  mankind.  What  a  fine  thing 
for  the  youth  of  the  world  to  have  this 
knowledge  taught  them.  It  was  just  a 
few  days  ago  too,  that  a  student  from 
Harvard  College,  writing  his  thesis  for 
his  doctor's  degree  in  philosophy,  had 
his  attention  called  to  the  belief  that 
Williams  James,  one  of  the  most  learned 
men,  wrote  when  his  little  boy  died: 

Our  little  Humster,  whome  you  never  saw 
since  his  first  babyhood,  has  also  gone  over 
to  the  majority.  We  buried  him  yesterday 
under  the  pine  tree,  at  my  father's  side. 
For  nine  days  he  had  been  in  a  desperate 
condition,  but  his  constitution  proved  so 
tenacious  that  each  visit  of  the  doctor  found 
him  still  alive.  At  last  his  valiant  little 
soul  left  his  body.  He  was  a  broad,  gener- 
ous, patient  little  nature,  with  a  noble 
head  who  would  have  done  credit  to  his 
name  had  he  lived.  It  must  be  now  that 
he  is  reserved  for  some  still  better  chance 
than  that  and  that  we  shall  in  some  way 
come  into  his  presence  again. 


DGAR  YOUNG  33 

Another  beautiful  truth  could  be 
taught  to  the  youth  of  our  schools.  It 
concerns  the  American  Indians.  The 
tribes  of  America  always  held  through 
the  years  that  the  whites  had  taken 
their  lands,  and  this  brought  about 
many  Indian  wars.  Indian  chiefs  rose 
at  times  to  great  heights  of  noble 
thoughts  and  actions.  It  was  in  the 
early  days  of  the  last  century  that  one 
of  the  noblest  chiefs  left  this  message. 
It  is  called  the  message  of  Gard  and  was 
quoted  in  the  Overland  Monthly  in 
1872: 

Many  snows  ago,  there  lived  a  young 
Hoopa  named  Gard.  He  knew  the  stars 
and  the  habits  of  the  trees.  "Wide  as  the 
eagles  fly,"  was  he  known  for  his  love  of 
peace.  He  walked  in  the  paths  of  humility, 
and  clean  was  his  heart.  His  words  were 
not  crooked  nor  double.  He  went  every- 
where, teaching  the  people  the  beauty  of 
meekness.  He  said  to  them,  "Love  peace, 
and  eschew  war  and  the  shedding  of  blood. 
Put  away  all  wrangling  and  the  spirit  of 
wrath.  Dwell  together  in  the  singleness  of 
love.  Let  all  your  hearts  be  one  heart.  So 
shall  ye  prosper  greatly,  and  the  great  One 
above  shall  build  you  up  like  a  great  rock 
on  the  mountain.  The  forests  shall  yield 
you  abundance  of  game,  and  rich  nutty 
seeds  and  acorns.  The  red-flecked  salmon 
shall  never  fail  in  the  rivers.  Ye  shall  rest 
in  your  wigwam  in  good  joy,  and  your 
children  shall  run  in  and  out  like  the  young 
rabbits  of  the  field  for  number." 

The  report  of  Gard  went  throughout  the 
land.  Gray-bearded  men  came  many  days 
journey  to  sit  at  his  feet.  But  one  day 
Gard  went  from  his  wigwam  and  was  gone 
many  suns.  His  brother  was  distressed  and 
feared.  At  first  he  said:  "He  is  teaching 
the  people  and  will  come  back." 

But  his  people  feared,  and  in  a  few  days 
they  left  the  wigwams  and  began  to  search 
the  hills  and  valleys  for  their  Gard.  They 
called  through  the  forests.  Day  after  day 
they  beat  up  and  down  the  mountains. 
They  shouted  in  the  gloomy  canyons,  but 
no  sound  came  to  them  except  the  echo 
of  their  own  voices.  Still  the  brother  wan- 
dered on.  He  went  through  the  forest;  he 
exclaimed  aloud:  "O  Gard,  my  brother,  if 
indeed  you  are  already  in  the  land  of  souls, 
then  speak  to  me  at  least  one  word  with 
the  voice  of  the  wind  that  I  may  know  it 
for  a  certainty  and  therefore  be  content." 

Then  Gard  came  to  him  from  the  sky 
and  spoke  to  his  brother.  "Listen.  I  have 
been  in  the  land  of  souls.  I  have  beheld 
the  great  God  above.  I  have  come  back 
to  earth  to  bring  a  message  to  the  Hoopas, 


34 

Friday,  September  30 

that  they  must  dwell  in  peace  with  their 
neighboring  tribes.  Put  from  you  all 
thoughts  of  vengeance.  Wash  your  hearts 
clean.  Redden  your  arrows  no  more  in 
your  brother's  blood.  Then  the  Great  Man 
will  make  you  to  increase  greatly  and  be 
happy  in  this  good  land.  Ye  shall  keep 
the  dance  of  Peace  which  the  Great  Man 
has  appointed.  When  ye  observe,  ye  shall 
know  if  ye  are  clean  in  your  hearts  by  a 
sign." 

Having  said  these  words,  Gard  was 
wrapped  in  a  cloud  and  floated  up  into  the 
land  of  souls. 

With  all  the  individual  and  racial 
differences  among  men  of  the  nations 
of  the  world,  there  are  also  common 
characteristics.  Spiritually  minded  peo- 
ple have  always  lived.  The  sublime 
faith  in  God  as  shown  in  the  writings 
of  the  Old  Testament  indicates  that  this 
life  on  earth  is  but  a  period  of  prepara- 
tion for  the  life  hereafter.  Maeterlinck, 
the  Belgian  writer,  tells  us  that  when  we 
become  acquainted  with  ancient  re- 
ligions, we  find  them  complete  in  their 
broad  outlines  and  divine  principles, 
and  the  farther  back  we  go,  the  more 
perfect  they  are  and  the  more  closely 
related  to  the  loftiest  beliefs  of  our  own 
times.  Rudolph  Steiner,  a  German 
scholar,  says  that  what  we  read  in  the 
Vedas  or  Hindu  scriptures  gives  us  only 
a  faint  idea  of  the  sublime  doctrines  of 
the  ancient  teachers.  It  seems  that  the 
more  ancient  the  texts,  the  purer  and 
more  awe-inspiring  the  doctrines  which 
they  reveal. 

Then  we  think  of  the  Hebrew  concep- 
tion of  immortality  and  how  the  proph- 
ets taught  the  word  of  God.  Men  were 
to  find  their  relationship  to  the  Creator 
which  was  an  eternal  tie  here  and  here- 
after. Community  of  conviction  grew 
up,  and  this  conviction  bound  men  into 
a  brotherhood  to  serve  God  and  to  learn 
and  keep  his  commandments.  The  sub- 
lime faith  in  God  as  shown  in  all  the 
writings  of  the  Old  Testament  shows 
that  this  life  is  but  a  period  of  prepara- 
tion for  the  life  hereafter.  From  the 
Psalms  we  have  "The  Lord  is  my 
shepherd,"  and  then  in  the  book  of 
Job  we  have  Job  uttering  these  divine 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


For  I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth,  and 
that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter  day  upon 
the  earth: 


First  Day 

And  though  after  my  skin  worms  de- 
stroy this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall  I  see 
God.  (Job  19:25-26.) 

In  the  early  days  of  Kirtland  and  fol- 
lowing the  organization  of  the  Quorum 
of  Twelve  and  the  Seventies,  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith  organized  Hebrew  and 
Greek  classes  in  the  temple  which  had 
just  been  finished.  This  was  in  keep- 
ing with  the  ideals  of  education  which 
the  prophet  had  at  the  very  beginning  of 
our  history.  In  the  dedicatory  prayer 
of  the  Kirtland  Temple,  we  have  these 
words: 

Seek  ye  diligently  and  teach  one  another 
words  of  wisdom;  yea,  seek  ye  out  of  the 
best  books  words  of  wisdom,  seek  learning 
even  by  study  and  also  by  faith.  (D  &  C 
109:7.) 

We  are  further  admonished: 

.  .  .  study  and  learn,  and  become  ac- 
quainted with  all  good  books,  and  with  lan- 
guages, tongues,  and  people.  {Ibid.,  90:15.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  employed 
a  noted  Hebrew  scholar  from  New  York 
City  to  come  and  teach  classes  in 
Hebrew.  While  he  also  kept  Greek  and 
Latin  in  mind,  he  first  wanted  to  be 
able  to  read  Hebrew  that  he  might  read 
the  Holy  Bible  in  the  original  language 
in  which  it  was  written.  From  the 
journal  of  the  Prophet,  we  find  him 
studying  daily  and  attending  the  classes 
with  many  of  his  brethren  who  were 
reading  and  studying  with  him.  We 
read:  "After  a  hard  day's  work,  went  to 
my  Hebrew  class,  and  studied  far  into 
the  night.  Up  in  the  morning  and  out 
at  nine  o'clock,  attended  the  school  and 
translated  with  the  morning  class.  .  .  . 
Attended  my  studies  as  usual  and  made 
some  advancement." 

"Every  man  who  learns,"  says  Ralph 
Waldo  Emerson,  "must  do  so  by  labori- 
ous reading."  Such  a  man  looks  forward 
to  an  expanding  knowledge.  He  becomes 
a  lover  of  books,  and  great  books  tell  us 
of  God  and  truth.  The  attitude  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  alone  in  refer- 
ence to  study  and  the  gaining  of  knowl- 
edge from  books  is  one  of  the  sublime 
truths  of  his  life.  He  had  the  spirit  of 
learning,  a  thing  we  need  in  our  schools 
today. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


35 


The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  yet 
appeal  to  millions;  yes,  it  will  be  seen 
and  known  in  all  the  world.  The  fu- 
ture is  lighted  for  us  with  the  radiant 
colors  of  hope.  Strife  and  sorrow  will 
disappear.  Peace  and  love  will  reign 
supreme  sometime.  The  lesson  of 
prophets,  the  dream  of  poets  and  musi- 
cians is  confirmed  in  the  light  of  modern 
knowledge,  and  as  we  gird  ourselves  for 
the  work  of  life,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, today  and  tomorrow,  we  may  look 
forward  to  the  time  when  in  the  truest 
sense  the  kingdoms  of  this  world  will 
become  the  kingdoms  of  Christ,  and  he 


shall  reign  forever  and  ever  as  King  of 
kings,  and  Lord  of  lords. 

That  is  the  great  ideal  of  the  future 
of  the  members  of  this  Church,  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  we  may 
know  it,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Senior  Presi- 
dent of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  has 
just  concluded  speaking.  Bishop  Joseph 
L.  Wirthlin  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
will  now  speak  to  us. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


resident  McKay,  my  beloved 
brethren  and  sisters;  I  sin- 
cerely trust  that  the  Lord  may 
|  bless  me  in  the  endeavor  to 
I  express  to  you  one  or  two 
1  thoughts  that  I  have  in  con- 
nection with  my  belief  that  we  are  in 
the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
established  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 

In  thinking  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  there  comes  to  mind  a  great 
statement  made  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  section  four,  wherein  the 
Lord  said  this  to  the  Prophet: 

Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about 
to  come  forth  among  the  children  of  men. 
(vs.  1.) 

That  was  given  to  the  Prophet  in 
1829.  In  1830,  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized with  but  six  members.  The 
Prophet  lost  his  life  in  1844,  at  which 
time  there  were  in  the  Church  ap- 
proximately forty  to  forty-five  thousand 
members,  an  indication  to  me,  and  I 
am  sure  to  you,  that  when  the  Lord 
said  to  the  Prophet,  "Now  behold,  a 
marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth 
among  the  children  of  men" — the  men 
who  heard  of  that  great  revelation  ac- 
cepted it,  and  the  result,  as  I  said,  was 
that  there  were  between  forty  and 
forty-five  thousand  who  were  members 
of  the  Church  when  the  Prophet  lost 
his  life. 

It  is  most  inspiring  to  me  to  know 
that  the  Church  was  in  existence  for 


fourteen  years  when  the  Prophet  died, 
and  when  you  think  of  the  accomplish- 
ment in  that  period  of  time,  there  is  no 
question  but  what  the  Prophet  Joseph 
was  being  inspired  by  the  Lord  in  build- 
ing up  the  kingdom. 

From  that  time  on,  after  the  death  of 
the  Prophet,  it  was  necessary  for  the 
Church  to  leave  Nauvoo  and  come 
into  the  tops  of  these  mountains  where 
we  now  exist.  Brigham  Young  became 
the  President,  and  during  his  period 
there  were  approximately  150,000  mem- 
bers; in  the  time  of  President  John 
Taylor,  approximately  200,000;  in  the 
time  of  President  Wilford  Woodruff, 
approximately  250,000;  in  the  days  of 
President  Lorenzo  Snow,  approximately 
278,645;  in  the  days  of  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  approximately  495,960;  in  the 
days  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  ap- 
proximately 979,454;  and  in  the  days  of 
President  George  Albert  Smith,  ap- 
proximately 1, 1 1 1,3 14  members.  Today, 
in  the  day  of  President  David  O. 
McKay,  there  are  approximately,  in 
1954,  1,302,240. 

This  again  proves  to  us,  as  the  Lord 
said  through  the  Prophet  Joseph,  "Now 
behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to 
come  forth  among  the  children  of  men." 
And  the  children  of  men  have  accepted 
it  from  that  day  until  this  day,  and  are 
accepting  it  as  it  is  being  taught  to  them 
by  missionaries  and  others  who  are 
bringing  to  them  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  think  of  the  great  work  of  Presi- 


36 

Friday,  September  30 

dent  David  O.  McKay.  In  1952,  Presi- 
dent McKay  visited  eleven  nations.  In 

1953,  President  McKay  selected  sites 
for  two  new  temples — one  of  which,  of 
course,  has  already  been  prepared  and 
dedicated,  you  know,  in  far-off  Switzer- 
land, and  another  one  soon  is  to  be 
built  in  Great  Britain.   In  addition,  in 

1954,  President  David  O.  McKay  cov- 
ered 50,000  air  miles,  visiting  eight  na- 
tions in  Europe,  South  Africa,  and  South 
America.  In  1955,  President  McKay 
visited  seven  nations  in  the  South 
Pacific,  including  Hawaii,  Samoa,  Aus- 
tralia, and  New  Zealand,  and  at  the 
same  time  selected  a  site  for  a  temple 
in  New  Zealand;  all  of  which  again  is 
evidence  of  the  fact  that  the  Lord  did 
reveal  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  that  a 
great  and  a  marvelous  work  was  about 
to  be  taught  and  sent  forth  among  men. 

In  1893,  President  Woodruff  made 
this  statement  as  he  dedicated  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple,  "That  from  this  time  on, 
the  power  of  the  evil  one  would  be 
broken  and  that  the  enemy  would  have 
less  power  over  the  Saints."  How  true 
that  is!  When  we  go  back  into  the  his- 
tory of  this  great  Church,  from  1893 
until  now,  we  find  that  the  power  of 
the  evil  one  has  become  weak;  and 
therefore,  it  has  been  possible  to  go  out 
and  preach  the  gospel  in  the  world. 
When  you  stop  to  think,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  lost  his  life  through  the  power 
of  Satan;  and  the  Saints  were  driven 
from  Nauvoo  to  this  country  because  of 
the  power  of  the  evil  one;  and  from 
that  time  until  1893,  there  was  difficulty 
and  suffering  for  our  people;  neverthe- 
less, as  the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  "Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work 
is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men." — and  the  children  of 
men  have  accepted  the  same,  even 
though  the  Prophet  was  murdered;  and 
the  Church  has  grown  and  exists  to  the 
point  now  to  where  we  have,  as  I  said, 
over  1,302,000  members. 

It  is  marvelous  to  know  that  in  this 
day  and  age  we  have  more  mission- 
aries out  in  the  world  than  ever  before, 
preaching  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  There  will  be  more,  and  the 
time  will  come  when  mankind  will  lis- 
ten to  what  the  Prophet  said  in  the 
establishment  of  the  Church  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

I  also,  brethren  and  sisters,  would 
like  to  say  this,  that  each  and  every 
one  of  us  has  great  responsibilities  be- 
cause we  belong  to  the  Church  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  Lord  said 
this  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  to  us: 

Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  serv- 
ice of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him  with  all 
your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  that 
ye  may  stand  blameless  before  God  at  the 
last  day. 

Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve 
God  ye  are  called  to  the  work; 

For  behold  the  field  is  white  already  to 
harvest;  and  lo,  he  that  thrusteth  in  his 
sickle  with  his  might,  the  same  layeth  up 
in  store  that  he  perisheth  not,  but  bringeth 
salvation  to  his  soul;  (Ibid.,  4:2-4.) 

Actually,  if  we  have  the  faith  in  our 
hearts  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  and  desire  to  serve  the  Lord, 
we  can  only  do  it  through  the  work — 
through  the  results  of  our  efforts  in 
building  up  the  kingdom  and  making 
it  strong,  so  strong  that  the  world  will 
accept  the  great  truths  as  they  are  be- 
ing forwarded  to  them  through  our  mis- 
sionaries, and  as  has  been  done  through 
our  President  in  the  last  two  or  three 
years. 

I  accept  what  the  Lord  said  through 
the  Prophet  to  us,  in  speaking  about 
what  we  should  do,  and  what  our  atti- 
tude should  be: 

And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with 
an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God,  qualify 
him  for  the  work. 

Then  he  went  on  to  say: 

Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  tem- 
perance, patience,  brotherly  kindness,  godli- 
ness, charity,  humility,  diligence. 

Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive;  knock,  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you.  Amen.  (Ibid., 
4:5-7.) 

There  is  no  question  in  my  mind  that 
when  an  individual  who,  in  his  heart, 
desires  to  serve  God  and  live  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  prays 
to  the  Lord,  he  will  receive  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  according  to  what  his 
needs  are.  I  think  of  the  words  of  the 
Lord,  too,  wherein  he  said  this:  "The 
glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  .  .  ."  (Ibid., 
93:36.) 

What  a  marvelous  opportunity  we  all 
have  in  this  great  Church  where  the 


BISHOP  JOSEPH 

apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  teach 
us  the  gospel!  Therein  we  do  receive 
the  knowledge  of  the  glory  of  God. 
"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  93:36)  which  intelligence  we  can 
use  in  our  lives  from  day  to  day.  Surely 
it  becomes  the  glory  of  God  unto  us. 

In  my  testimony  I  feel  as  did  the 
apostle  of  old,  when  Paul  said: 

For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of 
Christ:  for  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation  to  every  one  that  believeth.  .  .  . 
(Rom.  1:16.) 

I  would  make  one  addition,  and  I 
might  say,  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  it  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  revealed 
to  us  and  given  to  us  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  and  every  one  of  the 
Apostles  who  has  lived  from  that  day 
until  this  time. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  testimony  I  have 
that  this  is  the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  I  am  grateful  for  the  testimony 
that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  God,  and  every  President 
of  the  Church  has  been  a  prophet  of 
God — has  been  an  apostle.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  opportunity  of  the  services 
that  are  rendered  through  the  power 
of  the  priesthood,  for  with  our  priest- 
hood, brethren  and  sisters,  we  have 
many  responsibilities  and  many  oppor- 
tunities to  help  build  up  the  kingdom. 
I  leave  you  my  humble  testimony  that 
this  is  the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  a 
Prophet  of  God.  There  is  no  question 
about  it:  This  is  the  work  of  God. 
May  we  do  all  within  our  power  to 
continue  to  build  it  up,  and  therein 
enjoy  all  of  the  blessings  that  the  Lord 
will  give  us  as  we  go  forward  in  his 
behalf,  I  humbly  ask,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

I  know  I  express  your  feelings  when 
I  say  that  we  are  grateful  to  hear 
Bishop  Wirthlin  speak  with  his  char- 
acteristic energy  and  faith.  The  Lord 
bless  him,  and  continue  to  bless  him 


L.  WIRTHLIN  37 

that  he  may  continue  in  the  great  work 
he  is  performing. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric  will  con- 
duct a  special  meeting  in  the  Taber- 
nacle tonight,  beginning  at  seven 
o'clock.  The  meeting  will  feature  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  program.  The  fol- 
lowing leaders  are  invited  to  be  in  at- 
tendance: stake  presidencies,  high  coun- 
cilmen,  bishoprics,  members  of  stake 
and  ward  Aaronic  Priesthood  commit- 
tees, and  all  other  leaders  interested 
in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  program — in 
the  Tabernacle  tonight  at  seven  o'clock. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  choir  organized  and 
composed  of  our  German  speaking 
Saints,  led  by  Elder  Heinz  Rimmasch, 
with  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ.  We  are  truly  thankful  for  their 
inspirational  singing  this  day.  What  a 
blessing  their  songs  have  been,  and 
the  way  they  have  been  rendered.  The 
song  of  the  righteous,  truly  is  a  prayer 
unto  the  Lord. 

We  thank  you  members  of  the  choir 
and  your  leaders.  Less  than  three 
weeks  ago,  it  was  our  privilege  to  meet 
several  hundred  of  your  countrymen, 
perhaps  some  of  your  relatives,  and  I 
feel  impressed  in  their  behalf  to  thank 
you  for  representing  them  so  inspira- 
tionally,  and  I  express  the  appreciation 
of  all  who  have  listened  in  as  well  as 
those  who  have  been  here  this  morning 
and  this  afternoon. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing,  "The  Lord 
Bless  You  and  Keep  You,"  following 
which  the  benediction  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Harry  E.  McClure.  After  the 
benediction  this  Conference  will  be 
adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning.  President  McClure  was 
formerly  president  of  the  Gridley  Stake. 
At  the  present  time  he  is  a  member  of 
the  Church  Building  Committee. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "The  Lord 
Bless  You  and  Keep  You." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Harry  E.  McClure.  Conference 
adjourned  until  Saturday,  October  1  at 
10:00  a.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  third  session  of  the  Conference 
was  held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday 
morning,  October  1,  at  10  o'clock,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  M.I.A.  Chorus  from  the 
Salt  Lake  Valley  stakes,  with  Elvis  B. 
Terry  conducting.  Roy  M.  Darley  was 
at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Several  requests  have  been  received 
this  morning  for  announcements.  All 
announcements  will  be  made  on  the 
bulletin  board  of  the  Bureau  of  In- 
formation. 

The  poet  has  asked,  "What  is  so  rare 
as  a  day  in  June?  Then,  if  ever,  come 
perfect  days." 

I  think  we  can  paraphrase  that  and 
say,  "What  is  so  rare  as  a  day  in  Octo- 
ber in  Utah?"  This  beautiful  sunshine 
this  morning,  the  hills  bedecked  in  the 
autumn  colors,  all  nature  seems  to  be  at 
peace.  This  is,  indeed,  a  glorious  oc- 
casion, and  a  glorious  state. 

The  third  session  of  the  126th  Semi- 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  con- 
vened in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

We  welcome  all  present  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, which  is  filled  to  overflowing, 
and  announce  that  over  flow  meetings 
are  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
the  Barratt  Hall,  and  that  13  Radio 
Stations  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Nevada,  Colo- 
rado, Arizona,  and  California  are  broad- 
casting the  messages  and  proceedings 
of  this  Conference.  There  is  a  special 
television  cable  installation  showing  in 
four  chapels  in  Pocatello,  Idaho.  The 
names  of  the  stations  broadcasting  the 
proceedings  have  already  been  an- 
nounced to  the  radio  audience.  We  ex- 
press appreciation  for  the  presence  of 
prominent  national  and  state  officials, 
and  educational  leaders  in  our  own 
state. 

The  singing  for  this  session  will  be 
furnished  by  the  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  Chorus  from  the  Salt  Lake 


Valley  stakes,  with  Elder  Elvis  B.  Terry 
conducting,  and  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley 
at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Mutual  Improvement  Association  Chorus 
singing,  "The  Morning  Breaks." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Oral  J.  Wilkinson,  President 
of  the  Murray  Stake. 

The  M.I.A.  Chorus  sang  the  hymn, 
"The  Morning  Breaks." 

Elder  Oral  J.  Wilkinson,  President 
of  the  Murray  Stake,  offered  the  invo- 
cation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Oral  J.  Wilkinson,  president  of  the 
Murray  Stake.  The  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Association  Chorus  from  Salt  Lake 
Valley  stakes  will  now  favor  us  with 
"Break  Forth,  O  Beauteous  Heavenly 
Light." 

I  wish  all  who  are  listening  in  could 
see  this  beautiful  choir,  made  up  of 
the  young  people  of  these  stakes.  You 
television  operators,  just  let  the  ob- 
servers see  the  overflow  from  the  choir 
seats  into  the  gallery  on  each  side — 
an  impressive  illustration  of  the  inter- 
est of  youth. 

Singing  by  the  Chorus,  "Break  Forth, 
O  Beauteous  Heavenly  Light." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  will  now  give  the  vital 
statistical  data,  the  changes  in  ward  and 
stake  organizations,  and  the  obituaries 
of  the  Church. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  read  the  following  report: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  APRIL 
CONFERENCE,  1955 

NEW  TEMPLE  PRESIDENT 

Samuel  E.  Bringhurst  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  Swiss  Temple. 


NEW  WARDS 

MISSION  CHANGES  AND  NEW 
PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Gulf  States  Mission,  formerly  known 
as  the  Texas-Louisiana  Mission. 

Northern  Far  East  Mission,  formerly 
known  as  the  Japanese  Mission. 

South  Australian  Mission,  new  mis- 
sion created  from  a  division  of  the 
Australian  Mission.  Thomas  Sanford 
Bingham  appointed  president. 

Southern  Far  East  Mission,  new  mis- 
sion, created  from  a  division  of  the 
former  Japanese  Mission.  Herald  Grant 
Heaton  appointed  president. 

Zelph  Y.  Erekson  appointed  president 
of  the  Australian  Mission,  to  succeed 
Charles  V.  Liljenquist. 

Clifton  G.  M.  Kerr  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  British  Mission,  to  succeed 
A.  Hamer  Reiser. 

Henry  D.  Taylor  appointed  president 
of  the  California  Mission,  to  succeed 
Bryan  L.  Bunker. 

J.  Earl  Lewis  appointed  president  of 
the  Canadian  Mission,  to  succeed  J. 
Melvin  Toone. 

Edgar  L.  Wagner  appointed  president 
of  the  Central  American  Mission,  to  suc- 
ceed Gordon  M.  Romney. 

Henry  A.  Smith  appointed  president 
of  the  Central  Atlantic  States  Mission, 
to  succeed  Claude  W.  Nalder. 

Douglas  H.  Driggs  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  Northwestern  States  Mis- 
sion, to  succeed  James  A.  McMurrin. 

Berkeley  L.  Bunker  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  Southern  States  Mission  to 
succeed  Peter  J.  Ricks. 

Alfred  Eugene  Rohner  appointed 
president  of  the  Southwest  Indian  Mis- 
sion, to  succeed  Golden  R.  Buchanan. 

Fred  W.  Stone  appointed  president 
of  the  Tongan  Mission  to  succeed 
D'Monte  W.  Coombs. 

Frank  D.  Parry  appointed  president 
of  the  Uruguayan  Mission  to  succeed 
Lyman  S.  Shreeve. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Honolulu  Stake  organized  August  28, 
1955  by  division  of  Oahu  Stake. 

New  Orleans  Stake  organized  June  19, 
1955  from  branches  in  the  Texas- 
Louisiana  and  Southern  States  Missions. 

Redondo  Stake  organized  May  29, 
1955  by  division  of  Inglewood  Stake. 


ORGANIZED  39 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  CHOSEN 

Phil  D.  Jensen,  president  of  Alpine 
Stake,  to  succeed  Edward  V.  Burgess. 

Frank  B.  Bowers,  president  of  Bonne- 
ville Stake,  to  succeed  Junius  M.  Jack- 
son. 

Ben  E.  Lewis,  president  of  East  Sharon 
Stake,  to  succeed  Henry  D.  Taylor. 

Julius  B.  Papa,  president  of  Gridley 
Stake,  to  succeed  Harry  E.  McClure. 

Jay  Ambrose  Quealy,  Jr.,  president  of 
Honolulu  Stake. 

Clive  M.  Larson,  president  of  New 
Orleans  Stake. 

Grant  M.  Burbidge,  president  of  Pio- 
neer Stake,  to  succeed  Henry  A.  Smith. 

Leslie  Lloyd  Prestwich,  president  of 
Redondo  Stake. 

George  C.  Ficklin,  president  of  South 
Bear  River  Stake,  to  succeed  Clifton 
G.  M.  Kerr. 

Percy  K.  Fetzer,  president  of  Temple 
View  Stake,  to  succeed  Adiel  F.  Stewart. 

G.  Marion  Hinckley,  president  of 
West  Utah  Stake,  to  succeed  J.  Earl 
Lewis. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Palmdale  Ward,  Bakersfield  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Lancaster  Ward. 

Ogden  48th  Ward,  Ben  Lomond 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Ogden  40th 
Ward. 

Cowley  2nd  Ward,  Big  Horn  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Cowley  Ward  and 
Deaver-Frannie  Branch. 

Hailey  Ward,  Blaine  Stake,  formerly 
Hailey  Branch. 

North  33rd  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  33rd  Ward. 

Logan  21st  Ward,  Cache  Stake, 
formed  by  divsion  of  Logan  9th  and 
15th  Wards. 

Cannon  7th  Ward,  Cannon  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Jordan  Park  Ward. 

Cedar  7th  Ward,  Cedar  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  College  Ward. 

Kaysville  4th  Ward,  Davis  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Kaysville  3rd 
Ward. 

Kaysville  5th  Ward,  Davis  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Kaysville  2nd  and 
3rd  Wards. 

Kaysville  6th  Ward,  Davis  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Kaysville  1st 
Ward. 


40 

Saturday,  October  1 

Union  4th  Ward,  East  Jordan  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Union  1st  Ward. 

Whittier  3rd  Ward,  East  Los  Angeles 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Whittier 
1st  Ward. 

Whittier  4th  Ward,  East  Los  Angeles 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Whittier 
2nd  Ward. 

Garden  Heights  South  Ward,  East 
Mill  Creek  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Garden  Heights  Ward. 

Phoenix  13th  Ward,  East  Phoenix 
Stake  was  formerly  Spanish-American 
Branch. 

Hanford  Ward,  Fresno  Stake,  former- 
ly Hanford  Branch. 

Colonial  Hills  2nd  Ward,  Hillside 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Colonial 
Hills,  Edgehill,  and  Wasatch  Wards. 

Mountain  View  2nd  Ward,  Hillside 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Mountain 
View  Ward. 

Mountain  View  4th  Ward,  Hillside 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Monte 
Vista  and  South  Edgehill  Wards. 

Wasatch  2nd  Ward,  Hillside  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Wasatch  and 
Edgehill  Wards. 

Iona  2nd  Ward,  Idaho  Falls  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Iona  Ward. 

Idaho  Falls  20th  Ward,  Idaho  Falls 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  5th,  9th, 
and  14th  Wards. 

Idaho  Falls  21st  Ward,  Idaho  Falls 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  5th,  9th 
and  14th  Wards. 

Layton  8th  Ward,  Layton  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Layton  3rd  Ward. 

Long  Beach  7th  Ward,  Long  Beach 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Long 
Beach  2nd  Ward. 

Westwood  2nd  Ward,  Los  Angeles 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Westwood 
Ward. 

Casa  Grande  Ward,  Mesa  Stake, 
formerly  Casa  Grande  Branch. 

Rupert  4th  Ward,  Minidoka  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Rupert  2nd  Ward. 

Riverside  2nd  Ward,  Mt.  Rubidoux 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Riverside 
Ward.  ;  | 

Middleton  Ward,  Nampa  Stake, 
formed  by  consolidation  of  Black  Can- 
yon and  Star  Branches. 

Baton  Rouge  Ward,  New  Orleans 
Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the  Texas- 
Louisiana  Mission. 

Biloxi  Ward,   New  Orleans  Stake, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

formerly  a  branch  in  the  Southern  States 
Mission. 

Columbia  Ward,  New  Orleans  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Southern 
States  Mission. 

Hammond  Ward,  New  Orleans  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Texas- 
Louisiana  Mission. 

Hattiesburg  Ward,  New  Orleans 
Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the  South- 
ern States  Mission. 

Liberty  Ward,  New  Orleans  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Southern  States 
Mission. 

New  Orleans  Ward,  New  Orleans 
Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the  Texas- 
Louisiana  Mission. 

Idaho  Falls  18th  Ward,  North  Idaho 
Falls  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  the 
Idaho  Falls  4th  and  10th  Wards. 

Idaho  Falls  19th  Ward,  North  Idaho 
Falls  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Idaho 
Falls  10th  and  13th  Wards. 

North  Highlands  Ward,  North  Sacra- 
mento. Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Del 
Paso  Ward. 

Ogden  49th  Ward,  Riverdale  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Ogden  32nd  and 
Riverdale  Wards. 

Auburn  Ward,  Sacramento  Stake, 
formerly  Auburn  Branch. 

Sacramento  5th  Ward,  Sacramento 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Sacramento 
1st  Ward. 

San  Jose  4th  Ward,  San  Jose  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  San  Jose  1st  Ward. 

Monticello  2nd  Ward,  San  Juan 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Monticello 
Ward. 

Westdale  2nd  Ward,  Santa  Monica 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Westdale 
and  LaCienega  Wards. 

Shelley  4th  Ward,  Shelley  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Shelley  1st  Ward. 

Kearns  5th  Ward,  Taylorsville  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Kearns  4th  Ward. 

Vernal  4th  Ward,  Uintah  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Vernal  2nd  Ward. 

Vernal  5th  Ward,  Uintah  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Vernal  1st  and 
3rd  Wards. 

Belvedere  2nd  Ward,  Wells  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Belvedere  Ward. 

South  Jordan  2nd  Ward,  West  Jordan 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  South  Jor- 
dan Ward. 

West  Jordan  3rd  Ward,  West  Jordan 


WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 

Stake,  formed  by  division  of  West  Jor- 
dan 1st  Ward. 

Wilford  2nd  Ward,  Wilford  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Wilford  and 
Cummings  Wards. 

Evanston  4th  Ward,  Woodruff  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Evanston  1st  and 
3rd  Wards. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Auwaiolimu,  Kahala,  Kailua,  Kai- 
muki,  Kaneohe,  Waikiki,  and  Waiman- 
alo,  Honolulu  Stake,  formerly  of  Oahu 
Stake.  , 

WARD  AND  BRANCH  NAME 
CHANGED 

Cannon  6th  Ward,  Cannon  Stake, 
formerly  Jordan  Park  Ward. 

Edgehill  2nd  Ward,  Hillside  Stake, 
formerly  South  Edgehill  Ward. 

Mountain  View  3rd  Ward,  Hillside 
Stake,  formerly  Monte  Vista  Ward. 

Eastland  Branch,  San  Juan  Stake, 
formerly  Lockerby  Branch. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Albany  Branch,  New  Orleans  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Texas-Louisi- 
ana Mission. 

Bayou  LaCroix  Branch,  New  Orleans 
Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the  South- 
ern States  Mission. 

Bogalusa  Branch,  New  Orleans  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Texas-Louisi- 
ana Mission. 

Darbun  Branch,  New  Orleans  Stake, 
formerly  a  barnch  in  the  Southern  States 
Mission. 

Gonzales  Branch,  New  Orleans  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Texas-Louisi- 
ana Mission. 

McNeill  Branch,  New  Orleans  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Texas- 
Louisiana  Mission. 

Pride  Branch,  New  Orleans  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Texas-Louisi- 
ana Mission. 

Sand  Hill  Branch,  New  Orleans 
Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the  South- 
ern States  Mission. 

Sharp  Park  Branch,  Palo  Alto  Stake 
formed  by  division  of  San  Bruno  Ward. 


BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED  41 

Elk  Grove  Branch,  Sacramento  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Sacramento  4th 
Ward. 

Vacaville  Branch,  Santa  Rosa  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Fairfield  Ward. 

Deer  Park  Branch,  Spokane  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Spokane  3rd 
Ward. 

Riggins  Branch,  Weiser  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  McCall  Branch. 


WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Deaver-Frannie  Branch,  Big  Horn 
Stake,  membership  transferred  to  Cowley 
Ward. 

Sahara  Branch,  Layton  Stake,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Layton  7th  Ward. 

La  Brea  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  Arlington 
and  Wilshire  Wards. 

Tooele  9th  Ward,  North  Tooele  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  Tooele  5th 
and  8th  Wards. 

Kahana  Branch,  Oahu  Stake,  mem- 
ship  transferred  to  Hauula  Branch. 

Kimball  Ward,  Shelley  Stake,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Firth  Ward. 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 

Howard  J.  McKean,  Chairman, 
Church  Building  Committee. 

Cornelius  Zappey,  president  of  the 
East  Central  States  Mission. 

Claude  W.  Nalder,  president  of  the 
Central  Atlantic  States  Mission. 

Clarence  A.  Hurren,  president  of  the 
East  Cache  Stake. 

John  D.  Giles,  business  manager  of 
the  Improvement  Era,  Boy  Scout  of- 
ficial, and  executive  secretary  of  the 
Utah  Pioneer  Trails  and  Landmarks 
Association. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  has  just  read  the  vital 
statistical  data,  changes  in  ward  and 
stake  organizations,  and  obituaries. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve, 
will  be  our  first  speaker.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill. 


42 

Saturday,  October  I 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Second  Day 


"  :  suppose  there  are  members  in 

j  the  congregation  and  who  are 

;  listening  in  who  are  anxious 
to  know  something  about  their 
boys  who  are  in  the  service  of 
the  country  in  the  Far  East; 
and  others  who  are  anxious  to  know 
about  their  sons  serving  in  the  mission 
fields  in  that  section  of  the  world.  I  will 
have  more  to  say  about  that  as  I  con- 
tinue. I  wish  to  make  a  brief  report 
of  what  was  accomplished  in  the  mis- 
sion assigned  to  me  to  the  Far  East. 

Monday,  July  25,  accompanied  by  my 
wife,  Herald  Grant  Heaton  and  his 
wife  and  baby,  and  a  group  of  mis- 
sionaries, I  arrived  in  Tokyo,  Japan.  The 
first  two  days  were  spent  in  visits  to 
military  quarters  with  the  chiefs  of 
staff,  all  of  whom  received  us  kindly. 

Wednesday  the  27th,  conference  con- 
vened in  Karuizawa  in  Japan  and  was 
held  for  three  days  with  the  mission- 
aries of  the  Japanese  Mission  and  serv- 
icemen who  were  able  to  attend.  At 
that  conference  the  division  of  the 
Japanese  Mission  was  presented,  re- 
naming the  northern  part  composed  of 
Korea,  Japan,  and  Okinawa,  the  North- 
ern Far  East  Mission,  and  the  southern 
part,  composed  of  Formosa,  Hong  Kong, 
the  Philippine  Islands,  and  Guam,  the 
Southern  Far  East  Mission,  with  Herald 
Grant  Heaton  as  president,  Hilton  A. 
Robertson  remaining  as  president  of  the 
Northern  Far  East  Mission.  He  had 
been  presiding  over  all  that  territory  be- 
fore the  division. 

At  this  conference,  for  the  first  time, 
a  vote  was  taken  by  those  assembled  to 
approve  the  division  of  the  mission  and 
other  action  which  was  taken.  This 
vote  was  received  unanimously  in  the 
affirmative,  and  every  place  we  went 
and  held  conference  from  that  time  on, 
the  same  procedure  was  carried  out, 
so  that  the  members  of  the  Church  in 
each  place  had  an  opportunity  to  vote 
on  the  matter  of  creating  two  missions 
out  of  what  was  the  Japanese  Mission. 

Now  the  term  Japanese  Mission  hard- 
ly suited  the  situation,  for  it  was  not 
just  Japan  that  was  concerned.  There- 
fore, they  readily  accepted  the  change 


and  that  the  northern  part  be  called 
the  Northern  Far  East  Mission,  taking 
in  Korea,  Japan,  and  Okinawa. 

Monday,  August  1,  Presidents  Robert- 
son and  Heaton,  Colonel  Robert  H. 
Slover,  Captain  Hildebrand,  and  I  left 
Japan  for  Korea,  arriving  in  Seoul  that 
afternoon.  Of  course  you  realize  we 
could  only  do  that  by  going  by  air,  and 
all  of  our  traveling  after  reaching  Japan 
was  by  air. 

Tuesday  afternoon,  August  2,  on  a 
hill  overlooking  Seoul  and  in  the  pres- 
ence of  a  small  group,  I  dedicated  the 
land  of  Korea  for  the  preaching  of  the 
gospel  and  the  establishment  of  the  work 
of  the  kingdom  of  God.  We  held  meet- 
ings with  the  Saints  in  Seoul  and  also 
with  the  servicemen.  I  will  give  these 
details,  and  then,  if  time  will  permit,  I 
wish  to  say  something  about  the  serv- 
icemen and  the  missionaries. 

Wednesday  we  went  to  Munsani-ni. 
We  held  a  meeting  there  on  the  borders 
of  the  land  separating  North  from  South 
Korea.  On  Thursday  following,  we  re- 
turned to  Seoul,  attended  to  some  busi- 
ness there,  and  then  took  plane  for 
Pusan  and  held  meetings  with  members 
of  the  Church  and  servicemen  there. 

In  Korea  at  Seoul  and  at  Pusan,  I 
ordained  men  to  offices  in  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  ordaining  some  priests,  some 
deacons,  so  that  these  good  people  could 
hold  their  meetings  and  administer  the 
sacrament.  Also  I  set  apart  Dr.  Kim  Ho 
Jik,  the  only  elder  in  Korea,  as  presi- 
dent of  the  Korean  District  of  the  mis- 
sion, and  gave  to  him  as  counselors, 
Elder  Frederick  Shumway,  who  was  in 
the  service  of  the  country  in  that  part 
of  the  country,  and  later  Houk  Yung 
Gil,  a  native,  as  second  counselor. 

Returning  to  Japan  we  held  meetings 
in  Osaka  and  Tokyo. 

August  11,  President  Robertson,  his 
wife,  Sister  Smith,  and  I,  left  Japan  for 
Okinawa.  President  Heaton  had  pre- 
viously left  for  Hong  Kong.  On  the 
island  of  Okinawa  we  located  a  site 
for  a  building.  On  Sunday,  August  14, 
in  the  presence  of  a  large  group  of  mem- 
bers, I  dedicated  the  island  of  Okinawa, 
as  we  had  done  the  land  of  Korea,  for 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


43 


the  establishment  of  the  work  of  the 
Lord  in  that  island. 

Monday,  the  fifteenth  we  parted  from 
Colonel  Robert  H.  Slover,  who  had  ac- 
companied us  in  all  of  our  travels  up 
to  that  point,  and  took  a  plane  for 
Hong  Kong,  and  there  were  met  by 
President  Heaton.  In  Hong  Kong,  be- 
fore a  small  group  of  members,  we 
presented  the  matter  of  the  division  of 
the  mission  and  the  sustaining  of  Herald 
Grant  Heaton  as  President  of  the  South- 
ern Far  East  Mission,  which  was  en- 
thusiastically received. 

Friday  evening,  August  19,  we  parted 
company  with  President  and  Sister 
Robertson  who  returned  to  Japan,  and 
President  Heaton  and  wife,  my  wife  and 
I  left  for  Manila,  Philippine  Islands. 
We  arrived  at  10:30  p.m.  and  were  met 
by  a  number  of  servicemen  and  E.  M. 
Grimm,  better  known  as  "Pete,"  who 
was  very  kind  to  us  and  placed  at  our 
service  an  automobile  and  driver,  two 
automobiles  and  drivers  when  neces- 
sary, for  our  entire  stay  in  the  Philip- 
pine Islands,  and  in  other  ways  he  was 
very  kind  and  looked  after  many  of  our 
interests. 

Sunday,  August  21,  1955,  at  a  beauti- 
ful grove  in  Clark  Military  Field,  I 
dedicated  the  Philippine  Islands  as  I 
had  done  Korea  and  Okinawa. 

Tuesday,  August  23,  we  left  at  10:30 
p.m.  for  the  Island  of  Guam  where  we 
arrived  the  next  morning.  We  remained 
in  Guam,  holding  meetings  with  Saints 
and  servicemen  until  the  morning  of 
Friday,  August  26,  when  we  took  our 
leave  and  by  plane  arrived  in  Honolulu, 
Friday  morning,  August  26,  at  4:45  a.m. 

Before  leaving,  however,  on  August 
25,  in  the  presence  of  a  large  congrega- 
tion of  members,  I  dedicated  the  Island 
of  Guam,  thus  dedicating  Korea, 
Okinawa,  the  Philippines,  and  Guam 
while  on  this  mission  to  the  Far  East. 

I  want  to  say  a  few  words  of  com- 
mendation for  some  of  these  brethren 
in  the  Far  East  who  are  doing  a  won- 
derful work:  first,  Colonel  Robert  H. 
Slover,  chairman  of  the  servicemen's 
co-ordinating  committee  in  those  lands, 
a  vigorous,  energetic,  faithful  man  in 
the  service  of  the  country,  devoting  his 
time  to  our  servicemen,  attending  to  the 
details  and  looking  after  the  interests 


of  the  young  men  in  the  service  in  a 
most  thorough  manner. 

He  is  assisted  by  Captain  Clain 
Smith,  Major  LeRoy  Walker,  Corporal 
Mark  Frazer,  and  with  these  I  must  also 
mention  Elder  Rodney  W.  Fye,  who  is 
serving  in  the  intelligence  department 
of  the  Army  in  Korea,  who  has  done  a 
wonderful  work  for  our  young  men  in 
Korea.  He  is  a  very  outstanding  young 
man.  Also,  I  wish  to  mention  Elder 
Youngberg  in  Okinawa,  presiding  in  the 
branch;  Blain  Elmer  in  the  Philippines 
where  we  do  not  have  members,  but 
who  is  looking  after  the  interests  of  our 
servicemen  there,  and  Victor  A.  Olsen 
in  Guam. 

Now  I  want  to  say  to  you  mothers, 
particularly,  fathers,  too,  who  have  sons 
in  the  mission  field  in  any  of  these 
Eastern  countries — (Well,  we  have  no 
missionaries  in  some  of  these  places  yet.) 
If  your  sons  are  called  to  go  to  the  Far 
East  to  labor  among  the  Japanese  peo- 
ple, the  Korean  people,  the  people  on 
these  islands  of  the  Far  Pacific,  do  not 
feel  disappointed.  Do  not  feel  sorry 
and  wish  that  they  had  been  appointed 
to  some  European  country  or  somewhere 
within  the  borders  of  the  United  States 
or  the  South  Pacific.  These  people  in 
these  lands  who  have  joined  the  Church 
are  just  as  good  as  we  are.  Those  peo- 
ple in  those  Far  East  countries  are 
human  beings,  with  like  feelings  and 
passions.  They  can  love  and  they  can 
hate  just  as  you  and  I  may  love  and 
hate.  When  they  receive  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  they  are  just  as  good  as 
we  are. 

I  could  not  help,  when  I  met  with 
them  and  took  them  by  the  hand  and 
looked  into  their  countenances,  but  feel 
that  I  could  and  did  love  them.  They 
are  the  people  of  God,  just  as  the  people 
are  anywhere  else  on  the  face  of  the 
earth  who  receive  the  truth,  and  they 
can  bear  testimony  of  the  truth,  as  I 
have  heard  them  do,  as  the  people  can 
do  in  any  of  the  stakes  and  wards  of 
Zion. 

Do  not  feel  disappointed.  The  mis- 
sionaries do  not  feel  disappointed  unless 
perchance  they  never  received  the  spirit 
of  their  mission.  You  fathers  and  moth- 
ers who  have  sons  serving  in  the  forces, 
be  proud  of  them.  They  are  fine  young 
men.   Some  of  our  servicemen  are  con- 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  1 

verts,  who  have  been  brought  into  the 
Church  by  the  teachings,  by  precept 
and  by  example — principally  by  exam- 
ple by  the  members  of  the  Church  who 
are  also  serving  with  them  in  the  forces. 

I  met  a  number  of  young  men  who 
said,  "We  came  in  the  Church  because 
of  the  lives  of  these  young  men  and  be- 
cause they  taught  us  the  principles  of 
the  gospel." 

They  are  doing  a  good  work.  There 
might  be  one  or  two  that  may  be  care- 
less, but  those  young  men  with  whom 
I  had  the  privilege  of  meeting,  talking 
to,  would  bear  their  testimony  of  the 
truth  and  were  walking  humbly. 

And  as  I  met  with  the  oSicers  and 
chaplains  (and  unfortunately,  at  this 
time,  we  have  no  chaplain  of  the 
Church  there),  but  when  I  met  with 
them,  universally  they  said,  "We  like 
your  young  men.  They  are  clean.  They 
are  dependable." 

One  of  these  chaplains,  when  I  was 
talking  with  him,  said,  "I  keep  two  of 
these  young  men  of  your  faith  with  me 
all  the  time.  If  I  lose  one  of  them,  if 
he  is  called  away,  I  get  another."  While 
I  was  talking  with  him,  a  young  man 
came  in  with  a  message,  and  when  he 
was  in  there,  he  held  out  his  hand  and 
said,  "I  am  Brother  so-and-so.  (I  do  not 
remember  his  name  now.)"  He  re- 
ceived the  instruction  given  him  and 
departed.  A  little  later  another  one 
came.  He  likewise  was  a  member  of 
the  Church.  This  man,  not  a  member 
of  the  Church,  said,  "I  keep  them  with 
me  all  the  time  because  they  are  de- 
pendable." 

Be  proud  of  your  boys.  Be  proud 
of  your  young  men  in  the  mission  field. 
That  is  a  good  field,  and  those  people 


Second  Day 

are  entitled  to  hear  the  truth  just  as 
well  as  the  people  of  Europe  or  of  any 
other  part  of  this  world.  These  people 
who  are  living  and  laboring  among 
them  are  happy.  I  saw  none  that  was 
discontented. 

The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  leading 
them.  The  doors  are  opening  for  them 
to  preach  the  gospel. 

Now  just  one  more  word  that  I  would 
like  to  say.  This  comes  a  little  close 
to  me;  nevertheless  I  want  to  say  it. 
Sister  Smith's  singing  everywhere  we 
went  was  a  great  help.  When  she  could 
not  go  to  Korea,  we  took  a  record  of 
"The  King  of  Glory,"  and  we  were  able 
to  broadcast  the  recording  from  the  mili- 
tary grounds  so  it  could  be  heard  all 
over  the  city;  so  her  voice  was  heard 
there,  although  she  was  not  privileged 
to  accompany  me. 

It  was  a  glorious  visit.  I  think  we 
accomplished  some  good. 

Brother  Heaton,  a  young  man,  full 
of  energy  and  astonishingly  full  of 
knowledge,  knows  those  people  in  the 
Far  East  and  loves  them,  and  he  will  be 
successful  in  his  mission  field. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

That  interesting  report  of  the  expan- 
sion of  the  Church  in  the  Far  East,  a 
significant  epoch  in  Church  history,  to 
which  you  have  just  listened,  was  given 
by  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles.  We  shall  now  hear  Brother 
Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Marion  D. 
Hanks. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


lUCH  has  been  said  at  this 
conference  about  the  life 
and  mission  of  the  Master. 
I  pray  that  what  I  may 
say  will  not  detract  from 
that  which  has  already 
been  said. 

After  that  long  awful  night  of  be- 
trayal and  trial,  Jesus  was  brought  be- 
fore Pilate.    Pilate  believed  that  Jesus 


was  innocent  of  any  wrong  and  made 
a  weak  attempt  to  try  and  save  his  life 
by  taking  advantage  of  one  of  his 
privileges  as  Roman  governor  to  release 
a  prisoner  to  the  Jews  at  the  time  of 
the  Passover.  Pilate  had  in  his  custody 
a  noted  insurrectionist  and  murderer 
by  the  name  of  Barabbas,  and  probably 
relying  upon  the  sense  of  fairness  of 
the  Jews  that  certainly  they  would  not 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


45 


consent  to  the  release  of  this  notorious 
criminal  and  punish  an  innocent  man, 
Pilate  said,  "Whom  shall  I  release  unto 
you — Barabbas  or  Jesus  which  is  called 
Christ?"  (See  Matt.  27:21.)  And  Pilate 
must  have  been  startled  to  hear  them 
say,  "Barabbas." 

He  said,  "Then  what  shall  I  do  with 
Jesus?"  And  the  Jews  replied,  "Let  him 
be  crucified."  Pilate  said,  "Shall  I 
crucify  your  king?"  And  they  said,  "We 
have  no  king  but  Caesar." 

Then  Pilate  took  water  and  washed 
his  hands  before  the  multitude,  saying, 
"...  I  am  innocent  of  the  blood  of  this 
just  man:  see  ye  to  it."  And  the  Jews 
said,  ".  .  .  His  blood  be  upon  us  and 
on  our  children.  Then  Barabbas  was 
released  and  Jesus  was  delivered  to  be 
crucified."  (See  Matt.  27:24-26.) 

We  might  safely  assume  that  both 
Pilate  and  the  Jews  felt  that  they  had 
permanently  settled  any  question  which 
may  have  arisen  in  connection  with 
the  life  of  Christ — Pilate  by  merely 
washing  his  hands,  and  the  Jews  by 
putting  to  death  the  very  Son  of  God. 

But  there  is  a  peculiar  relationship 
which  exists  between  the  life  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  every  other  soul  born  into 
the  world.  In  that  great  period  of  our 
pre-existence,  Jesus  was  appointed  and 
ordained  to  be  the  Savior  of  the  world 
and  the  Redeemer  of  men,  and  there 
is  no  other  name  given  by  which  man 
can  be  saved.  What  Pilate  and  the 
Jews  did  to  Jesus  did  not  alter  that  re- 
lationship in  the  slightest  degree,  either 
for  them  or  for  us.  For  Jesus  also  bore 
our  sins,  and  we  are  therefore  party  to 
his  suffering  and  his  atonement. 

In  our  lives  we  are  forced  to  make 
many  decisions.  By  our  answers  to 
life's  questions,  we  determine  our  own 
destiny.  James  Russell  Lowell  wrote 
some  significant  lines  entitled,  "The 
Present  Crisis."   He  says — 

Once  to  every  man  and  nation 
Comes  a  moment  to  decide 
In  the  strife  of  truth  and  falsehood 
For  the  good  or  evil  side. 

Some  great  cause,  God's  new  Messiah 
Offering  each  the  bloom  or  blight 
Parts  the  goats  upon  the  left  hand 
And  the  sheep  upon  the  right. 

And  the  choice  goes  on  forever 
'Twixt  the  darkness  and  the  light. 


Certainly  the  greatest  question  to  be 
decided  by  any  man  during  his  life- 
time is  the  one  suggested  by  Pilate, 
"What  shall  I  do  with  Jesus?"  The 
Jews  made  their  decision.  They  said, 
"His  blood  be  upon  us  and  on  our  chil- 
dren," and  so  it  has  been.  And  so  it 
may  be  with  us  because  the  question 
is  still  before  us,  and  each  must  answer 
for  himself. 

For  Jesus  is  standing  on  trial  still. 
You  may  be  false  to  him  if  you  will. 
Or  you  may  serve  him  through  good  or  ill. 
What  will  you  do  with  Jesus? 

You  may  evade  him  as  Pilate  tried 
Or  you  may  serve  him  whate'er  betide. 
Vainly  you'll  struggle  from  him  to  hide 
What  will  you  do  with  Jesus? 

What  will  you  do  with  Jesus? 

Neutral  you  cannot  be, 

And  someday  your  soul  may  be  asking — 

What  will  he  do  with  me? 

One  of  the  best  methods  for  solving 
a  problem  is  to  weigh  carefully  each 
of  the  alternatives.  In  this  case  there 
seem  to  be  three.  The  first  is  that  we 
may  follow  the  example  of  the  Jews 
and  reject  him  and  thereby,  as  Paul 
says,  we  crucify  unto  ourselves  the  Son 
of  God  afresh.  Such  a  course  is  un- 
thinkable. But  much  of  what  the  Jews 
did,  they  did  in  ignorance.  Upon  the 
cross  Jesus  said,  ".  .  .  Father,  forgive 
them;  for  they  know  not  what  they 
do."  (Luke  23:34.)  The  Jews  didn't 
really  understand  what  they  were  doing 
when  they  put  to  death  the  Savior  of 
the  world.  Pilate  didn't  know  that 
this  young  peasant  carpenter  standing 
before  him  was  in  very  deed  the  great 
Jehovah  who  had  created  the  earth. 

But  we  might  ask  ourselves  this  ques- 
tion. Why  didn't  they  know?  There 
is  probably  only  one  answer:  They 
lacked  the  honest  effort,  earnest  in- 
quiry, and  humble  prayer  necessary  to 
find  the  truth.  But  in  large  measure, 
we  make  exactly  the  same  mistakes. 
When  we  absent  ourselves  from  sacra- 
ment meeting,  we  don't  really  under- 
stand what  we  are  doing.  When  we 
fail  to  pay  our  tithing  or  when  we  are 
married  "until  death  do  us  part,"  we 
know  not  what  we  do.  It  is  our  igno- 
rance as  well  as  our  sins  that  stands  be- 
tween us  and  our  salvation. 

If  the  Jews  suffered  so  great  a  penalty 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  1 

for  their  sins  committed  largely  in  ig- 
norance, what  about  us?  We  have  all 
of  the  information  that  the  Jews  had, 
but  in  addition  we  have  the  judgment 
of  time  shining  upon  the  life  of  Christ. 
We  have  the  testimony  of  the  apostles 
bearing  witness  to  his  divinity  and  seal- 
ing their  testimony  with  their  blood. 

But  in  addition,  a  great  flood  of  new 
knowledge  has  come  into  the  world.  In 
the  early  spring  of  1820,  God  the  Father 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  reappeared 
upon  the  earth  to  re-establish  among 
men  a  belief  in  God.  Besides  this,  we 
have  been  given  three  great  volumes  of 
new  scripture  outlining  and  explaining 
in  every  detail  the  simple  principles 
of  the  gospel.  If  we  lose  our  way,  it 
will  be  by  our  own  choice  and  not  be- 
cause we  can't  know  the  truth,  except, 
if  like  the  Jews,  we  fail  to  be  sufficiently 
thoughtful  and  diligent,  thereby  expos- 
ing ourselves  to  the  risk  of  "ignorantly" 
rejecting  our  personal  Savior  and  with 
him  our  chances  for  eternal  exaltation. 

The  second  alternative  of  this  ques- 
tion, "What  shall  I  do  with  Jesus?"  is 
that  we  may  try  to  be  neutral,  and  be- 
lieve neither  one  thing  nor  the  other. 
That  is  impossible,  for  either  God  is, 
or  God  is  not.  There  is  no  middle 
ground.  It  is  all  or  nothing.  We 
either  accept  him  by  design  or  we  re- 
ject him  by  default.  For  when  we 
fail  to  decide  a  question  one  way,  we 
automatically  decide  it  the  other  way. 
That  is,  when  we  fail  to  decide  to  get 
on  the  train,  we  automatically  decide 
to  stay  off  the  train. 

Yet  there  is  a  group  of  people  who 
insist  on  trying  to  maintain  this  damag- 
ing neutrality.  It  isn't  merely  that  they 
don't  believe;  their  skepticism  goes 
deeper.  They  don't  give  it  a  thought 
one  way  or  the  other.  There  is  one 
thing  more  serious  than  merely  to  "not 
believe,"  and  that  is  to  "not  care." 

It  has  been  said  that  there  is  one 
folly  greater  than  that  of  the  fool  who 
says  in  his  heart  there  is  no  God,  and 
that  is  the  folly  of  him  who  says  he 
doesn't  know  whether  there  is  a  God 
or  not.  Thereby  he  is  guilty  of  un- 
belief rather  than  disbelief,  and  unbelief 
is  usually  a  confession  that  one  has  not 
made  sufficient  honest  inquiry  neces- 
sary to  find  the  truth. 

If  a  man  should  err  in  believing  the 


Second  Day 

gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  be  true,  he 
could  not  possibly  be  the  loser  by  the 
mistake.  But  how  irreparable  is  his 
loss  who  should  err  in  supposing  the 
revelations  of  God  to  be  false.  There 
are  many  people  who  try  to  dispose  of 
this  question,  "What  shall  I  do  with 
Jesus?"  by  saying  that  he  was  merely 
a  great  teacher.  This  is  certainly  a  poor 
substitute  for  knowing  the  truth.  It 
is  also  pretty  dangerous,  for  as  has 
been  said: 

Suppose  there  is  a  Christ,  but  that  I  should 

be  Christless; 
Suppose  there  is  a  cleansing,  but  that  I 

should  remain  unclean; 
Suppose  there  is  a  Heavenly  Father's  love, 

but  that  I  should  remain  an  alien; 
Suppose  there  is  a  heaven,  but  that  I  should 

be  cast  down  to  hell. 

It  has  been  said  that  "Man's  greatest 
unkindness  to  man  is  not  to  hate  him 
but  to  be  indifferent  to  him."  "He  who 
is  indifferent  to  his  friend  is  unkind  to 
his  friend.  But  he  who  is  indifferent 
to  his  Savior  is  unmerciful  unto  him- 
self." 

Our  third  alternative  to  this  question 
of  "What  shall  I  do  with  Jesus?"  is 
that  we  may  accept  him.  We  may  ac- 
cept him  eagerly  and  enthusiastically. 
We  may  fill  our  minds  with  his  word, 
and  consecrate  our  lives  to  his  service. 
We  have  his  own  counsel  on  this  ques- 
tion. In  our  own  day  he  has  said, 

O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God, 
see  that  ye  serve  him  with  all  your  heart, 
might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may 
stand  blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day. 
(D  &  C  4:2.) 

Each  of  us  has  been  complimented  by 
being  reserved  to  live  upon  the  earth 
in  this  greatest  of  all  dispensations.  We 
live  when  a  great  flood  tide  of  wonders 
and  knowledge  and  accomplishment  has 
been  released  in  the  world.  Our  fore- 
fathers lived  on  a  flat,  stationary  earth 
and  plowed  their  ground  with  wooden 
sticks.  But  we  live  on  an  earth  of 
power  steering  and  jet  propulsion.  Noah 
preached  the  gospel  for  many  years  and 
failed  to  bring  conversion  to  a  single 
person  outside  his  own  family.  Even 
in  the  dispensation  of  Jesus,  less  than 
one  hundred  years  had  passed  before 
the  apostles  had  all  been  put  to  death 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


47 


and  the  world  was  well  on  its  way  into 
darkness  of  complete  apostasy. 

But  we  live  in  a  time  when  "the  field 
is  white  already  to  harvest."  We  have 
examples  of  stake  missionaries  who  have 
brought  conversion  into  the  lives  of 
five  or  ten  or  twenty  human  souls  in 
a  single  year,  and  as  Samuel  Walter 
Foss  cried,  "Give  me  men  to  match 
my  mountains,"  so  the  Church  is  crying 
for  men  to  match  the  great  opportuni- 
ties of  the  present  day. 

In  1932  Walter  Pitkin  wrote  a  book 
entitled  Life  Begins  at  Forty.  But  life 
begins  every  morning.  Life  begins 
when  we  begin,  and  our  real  progress 


begins  when  we  accept  God's  answer  to 
that  greatest  question  of  our  lives, 
"What  shall  we  do  with  Jesus?" 

May  our  Heavenly  Father  inspire  us 
to  get  the  right  answer  before  it  is  too 
late,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Ster- 
ling W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
We  shall  now  hear  Elder  Marion  D. 
Hanks  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Alma 
Sonne. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  humbly  pray  for  direction 
;  and  inspiration  in  these  few 
;  moments.  It  seems  to  me  that 
j  I  am  almost  under  compulsion 
J  to  abandon  that  which  I 
might  have  said,  and  in  view 
of  this  warm  and  heartwarming  sermon 
by  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and 
in  view  of  the  presence  here  of  this 
magnificent  group  of  young  people,  add 
my  testimony  and  an  expression  of  my 
conviction  to  that  which  has  been  said. 

Memory  is  a  beautiful  and  wonder- 
ful thing.  As  President  Smith  named 
this  morning  the  places  he  had  been 
and  some  of  the  events  of  his  mission- 
ary adventures,  my  heart  responded  as 
many  of  yours  must  have  to  the  enu- 
meration of  places  familiar  to  many  of 
us  under  circumstances  very  different 
from  the  mission  which  motivated  him. 
I  thought  specifically  of  one  island  he 
did  not  visit  but  which  might  well  be 
some  day  the  subject  of  such  a  mission, 
where  5300  American  boys  gave  their 
lives  in  order  that  the  cause  which  they 
represented  might  be  successful. 

It  was  of  one  of  those  boys  that  I 
thought  this  morning,  and  as  President 
Smith  spoke,  I  tried  to  remember  and 
write  down  a  few  words  I  once  memo- 
rized which  came  from  the  pen  of  one  of 
the  American  boys  who  died  in  the 
battle  of  Iwo  Jima. 

This  twenty-year-old,  (and  I  know 
nothing  of  him  save  that),  was  one  of 


the  5300.  In  a  little  ten-cent  notebook 
dated  18  February  1945,  the  day  of  his 
great  adventure,  he  wrote  his  last  will 
and  testament — a  short  and  incisive 
thing.  He  might  have  written  about 
many  different  subjects.  After  all,  he 
was  only  twenty.  He  was  on  an  island 
he  had  never  heard  of,  I  suppose,  be- 
fore war  took  him  there.  I  assume  he 
might  have  had  in  his  heart  some  re- 
sistance to  what  awaited  him.  He  might 
have  been  thinking  about  home  and 
loved  ones;  but  what  he  wrote  seems  to 
me  to  have  been  inspired  of  God.  These 
are  the  words  as  I  remember  them,  and 
I  think  they  are  right. 

"This  is  the  time  for  new  revelation. 
People  don't  think  much  about  religion 
nowadays,  but  we  need  a  voice  from  on 
high,  brother,  and  I  don't  mean  maybe. 
This  thing  has  got  out  of  human  ability 
to  run.  I'm  no  religious  fanatic,  but 
we  are  in  a  situation  where  something 
better  than  human  brains  has  got  to 
give  us  advice." 

This  was  the  last  will  and  testament 
of  a  twenty-year-old  boy  who  died  with 
the  thought  in  his  mind  that  the  predica- 
ment mankind  had  worked  themselves 
into  was  one  which  only  divine  help 
might  solve.  He  cried  for  new  revela- 
tion, for  a  voice  from  on  high,  for  a 
voice  of  spiritual  authority.  I  wondered 
when  I  first  read  it  which  of  those  whonj 
I  knew  and  loved  and  lost  had  answered 
his  cry — whether  it  be  Marsden  or  Elwin 


48 

Saturday,  October  1 

or  Ray  or  Chick  or  David  or  one  of 
many  others — I  wonder  which  one  has 
told  him,  as  surely  one  of  them  has, 
that  the  voice  of  spiritual  authority  has 
been  and  is  being  heard  in  our  very 
day.  The  voice  from  on  high  has  spoken 
to  man,  a  voice  which  has  proclaimed 
that  God  in  truth  does  live,  that  Jesus 
is  in  truth  his  divinely  Begotten  Son 
who  lived  to  teach  us  how  to  live,  and 
died  to  save  us;  that  there  is  a  plan 
which  God  himself  has  made  available 
to  his  beloved  children,  obedience  to 
which  will  bring  us  the  blessings  which 
we  might  as  his  children  naturally  ex- 
pect if  we  are  obedient  to  his  will,  and 
which  will  ultimately  exalt  us  in  that 
condition  of  beauty  and  glory  which 
will  allow  us  eternally  to  work,  to  grow, 
to  learn,  to  love,  to  live  with  him  who 
is  our  Father. 

As  I  have  traveled  through  this 
Church,  I  have  been  blessed  on  many 
occasions  with  experiences  like  those  of 
President  Smith,  as  have  all  of  these 
other  brethren.  This  morning  the  name 
of  Biloxi,  Mississippi,  was  read  as  a 
ward  in  the  recently  organized  New 
Orleans  Stake.  In  Biloxi,  some  few  of 
you  will  know,  there  stands  a  magnifi- 
cent chapel  erected  at  the  cost  of  about 
$75,000,  and  that  chapel  was  almost 
one  hundred  percent  built  and  paid  for 
by  dedicated  Latter-day  Saint  service- 
men. I  had  the  blessing  of  dedicating 
the  building,  and  afterwards  talked  with 
a  humble  young  fellow.  I  asked  him 
what  he  was  doing  and  how  he  was  en- 
joying the  service,  and  he  said,  "I  do 
not  enjoy  the  service  so  much,  but  I 
am  enjoying  service  in  the  Church." 
He  told  me  that  he  was  a  stake  mis- 
sionary. 

I  said,  "Have  you  had  any  success?" 
"Oh,  some,"  he  said.  "We  have  bap- 
tized eight  this  year — my  companion 
and  I — and  we  have  some  other  good 
possibilities." 

As  we  moved  to  Pensacola,  we  found 
a  young  navy  officer  active  as  one  of 
the  district  presidency,  traveling  with 
two  of  his  wonderful  young  compan- 
ions in  the  service  from  branch  to 
branch,  bearing  witness  of  the  truth, 
stimulating  the  saints,  and  doing  the 
work  that  needs  to  be  done.  Almost 
everywhere  we  have  gone — San  An- 
tonio, Los  Angeles,  Washington,  D.  C., 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

and  elsewhere — we  have  found  the  same 
dedication  and  the  same  basic  loyalty  to 
the  Lord. 

Now  to  you  wonderful  young  people 
who  are  here  behind  me,  and  to  all 
others,  may  I  say  that  there  are  those 
who  would  seek  to  make  a  "deal"  with 
you,  in  the  vernacular  of  our  day,  who 
would  invite  you  to  trade  your  faith, 
your  self-respect,  your  loyalty  to  the 
Lord,  for  some  of  the  enticements  of 
this  day — for  education  or  wealth,  for 
social  preference,  for  political  promi- 
nence or  business  success,  for  accepta- 
bility at  school,  for  improper  indulgence, 
for  any  of  the  others  of  the  enticements 
which  allure. 

May  I  say  to  you  that  there  is  nothing 
in  this  world  worth  having  which  you 
need  to  give  up  to  be  a  good  Latter-day 
Saint.  If  wealth  or  education,  social 
preference  or  political  prominence, 
power  in  your  profession — if  these  are 
what  you  want,  my  testimony,  and  I 
get  it  traveling  through  the  Church 
among  the  wonderful  people  of  this 
faith,  is  that  you  may  be  anything  you 
want  to  be  worth  being,  and  a  believing, 
faithful  Latter-day  Saint. 

There  was  a  writer  who  said:  "People 
who  take  off  their  religion  to  be  edu- 
cated or  wealthy  or  socially  accepted  are 
like  the  man  who  took  off  his  boots  to 
walk  in  a  briar-patch." 

If  ever  you  need  the  Spirit  of  God, 
if  ever  you  need  faith  and  loyalty  to 
his  way,  it  is  while  you  are  educated 
(and  the  Church  encourages  you  to  be- 
come so) ;  it  is  while  you  have  wealth 
(which  may  come  to  you  if  you  seek  it 
honestly  and  use  it  wisely);  it  is  while 
you  are  politically  prominent  or  socially 
accepted;  it  is  while,  in  your  school  ac- 
tivities and  achievements,  you  find  occa- 
sions for  leadership. 

I  think,  as  I  conclude,  of  a  wonder- 
ful young  man — perhaps  the  only  Latter- 
day  Saint  in  a  leading  university  in  a 
great  southern  state— who  was  the 
president  of  the  student  body,  editor  of 
Law  Review,  one  of  the  outstanding 
young  men  of  the  nation.  His  studies 
had  perhaps  been  interfered  with  a  little 
by  having  to  go  from  dormitory  to 
dormitory  in  answer  to  requests  to  talk 
about  the  Church  and  the  gospel,  but 
he  had  done  it  consistently,  had  lived 
his  religion  loyally,  and  had  been  an 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


49 


intelligent,  and  faithful  representative 
of  the  Church. 

I  think  of  a  few  weeks  ago  in  Logan 
when  a  fine  young  man  bore  testimony 
in  our  conference  before  returning  to 
Columbia  College,  where  he  is  serving 
as  student  body  president  of  that  great 
school.  He  said  he  had  been  offered  a 
graduate  scholarship  when  he  was  fin- 
ished, and  hoped  it  would  still  be  avail- 
able after  he  had  served  a  mission. 
There  are  many,  many  similar  cases 
throughout  the  Church.  No  Latter-day 
Saint  young  person  needs  to  sacrifice 
anything  important  to  be  a  real  mem- 
ber of  the  Church.  Remember  that 
there  are  many  wonderful  people,  old 
and  young — like  the  boy  on  Iwo — who 


desperately  seek  what  you  have,  or  may 
have  if  you  desire  it  and  seek  it  and 
live  for  it. 

I  bear  testimony  that  God  lives,  and 
that  this  is  his  work,  and  if  I  know 
anything  in  the  world  it  is  that  obedi- 
ence to  his  law  brings  happiness,  and 
the  opposite — disobedience — brings  un- 
happiness,  of  which  I  testify  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


gY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  I 

am  very  happy  for  the 
privilege  of  standing  be- 
fore you  for  a  moment, 
to  express  my  gratitude 
for  the  fine  things  we 
have  heard  and  seen  at  this  general 
conference  of  the  Church.  This  morn- 
ing at  7:30  in  the  Assembly  Hall  we 
held  a  welfare  meeting.  We  heard 
something  about  cattle,  beef  cattle,  and 
dairy  cattle,  and  how  to  manage  farms, 
especially  the  welfare  farms.  This  in- 
struction was  given  by  experts  from  the 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College.  When 
they  had  given  their  talks,  President 
Clark  made  some  observations.  Presi- 
dent Clark,  you  may  know,  is  a  farmer 
and  a  cattleman  in  his  own  right — if 
he  can  qualify  for  that  distinction,  by 
working  two  or  three  hours  on  Saturday 
afternoon  on  his  farm.  We  were  greatly 
edified. 

It  reminded  me  of  the  funeral  serv- 
ice which  was  held  up  in  the  Bear  Lake 
country  for  Brother  Hyrum  Nebeker, 
also  a  cattleman.  Prior  to  his  death  he 
had  selected  the  hymns  he  wanted  sung 
at  the  service.  Among  them  was  the 
well-known  hymn  we  sing  so  frequent- 
ly, "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a 
Prophet."  He  also  requested  that  every- 
one in  the  gathering  join  in  singing  this 
hymn,  not  only  the  choir,  but  those  also 


who  sat  on  the  front  seats,  and  the  en- 
tire congregation.  Seldom  does  one  hear 
a  song  sung  with  more  feeling  than  was 
done  on  this  occasion.  Everyone  sang, 
and  all  seemed  to  feel  the  spirit  and  the 
significance  of  this  great  hymn. 

I  thought  of  the  statement  made  by 
someone  who  said,  "Tell  me  the  ballads 
a  people  sing,  and  I  will  tell  you  their 
character."  I  hope  the  Latter-day  Saints 
will  be  judged  by  the  songs  they  sing  on 
occasions  like  this.  This  hymn,  in  par- 
ticular, suggested  guidance,  prophetic 
guidance.  Guidance  is  a  beautiful  word, 
it  is  a  meaningful  word.  We  all  need 
to  be  guided  and  directed  and  inspired 
in  our  work  and  in  our  responsibilities. 

I  recall  a  poem  I  learned  as  a  boy; 

Hand  in  hand  with  angels  through  the 

world  we  go; 
Brighter  eyes  are  on  us  than  we  blind  ones 

know; 

Tenderer  voices  greet  us  than  we  deaf  will 
own; 

But  never  walking  heav'nward  can  we  walk 
alone. 

Those  who  dislike  guidance,  it  seems 
to  me,  lack  in  humility.  Jesus  believed 
in  guidance.  I  read  a  verse  from  the 
Gospels: 

.  .  .  when  he,  the  Spirit  of  truth,  is  come, 
he  will  guide  you  into  all  truth:  for  he  shall 
not  speak  of  himself;  but  whatsoever  he 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  1 

shall  hear,  that  shall  he  speak:  and  he  will 
shew  you  things  to  come.  (John  16:13.) 

Mark  the  words  "he  will  guide  you 
into  all  truth  .  .  .  and  he  will  shew  you 
things  to  come."  Of  all  the  leaders  who 
have  lived  upon  the  earth,  only  Jesus, 
the  Lord,  could  make  a  promise  like 
that.  These  words  are  tremendously  im- 
portant and  reassuring,  especially  to 
those  who  are  striving  for  a  better  life. 

Christ's  plan  of  salvation  came  to 
light  gradually  through  holy  prophets. 
Back  of  them  is  Jesus  Christ,  the  light 
of  the  world,  and  the  greatest  of  all  the 
prophets.  His  gospel  is  the  beacon  light. 
The  voice  of  the  prophets  is  the  voice 
of  God  to  generations  past,  present,  and 
future.  These  prophets  came  as  they 
were  needed.  They  were  chosen  before 
they  were  born.  Their  messages  were 
always  vital,  important,  and  timely. 
Their  testimonies  were  strong  and  fer- 
vent. They  called  people  to  repentance. 
They  rebuked  sin  in  high  places.  Their 
mission  was  to  purify  and  regenerate  the 
human  family  and  to  turn  the  hearts 
of  men  to  God,  who  is  the  Creator,  the 
Ruler,  and  the  Giver  of  life.  These 
living  oracles  seldom  argued.  They  an- 
nounced and  interpreted  God's  will  and 
made  no  compromise  whatever  with 
worldly  standards  and  patterns,  how- 
ever glowing  and  colorful  they  might 
appear. 

You  will  realize  the  significance  of 
Paul's  question  put  to  Agrippa  and  the 
others:  "Believest  thou  the  prophets?" 
Paul  believed  the  prophets.  He  quoted 
their  words  to  justify  and  substantiate 
his  claims.  I  am  convinced  that  the 
warnings  and  admonitions  of  the  proph- 
ets, had  they  been  duly  regarded  and 
respected,  would  have  transformed  the 
world,  and  evil  forces  operative  in  pub- 
lic and  private  life,  now  and  in  the  past, 
would  have  been  far  less  powerful. 

We  believe  in  prophets.  We  believe 
the  only  safe  course  for  us  is  to  follow 
the  admonition  of  the  prophets.  Said 
Jesus: 

Wherefore,  behold,  I  send  unto  you 
prophets,  and  wise  men,  and  scribes:  and 
some  of  them  ye  shall  kill  and  crucify;  and 
some  of  them  shall  ye  scourge  in  your 
synagogues,  and  persecute  them  from  city 
to  city.  (Matt.  23:34.) 


Second  Day 

And  then  his  concluding  words:  "That 
upon  you  may  come  all  the  righteous 
blood  shed  upon  the  earth,  .  .  ."  (Ibid., 
v.  35.)  The  deniers  of  God's  servants 
were  to  answer  for  their  repudiation  of 
the  prophets.  Had  the  Jews  believed 
John  the  Baptist  and  heeded  his  admoni- 
tions, many  people  (more  than  did), 
would  have  believed  on  Jesus  the  Christ. 
But  they  rejected  him  and  maligned 
him.  He  was  put  in  prison,  like  his 
predecessors,  and  finally  put  to  death, 
but  they  could  not  entirely  destroy  his 
influence  nor  his  memory.  The  com- 
mon people,  the  meek  and  the  lowly, 
listened.  They  heard  his  words  and  ac- 
cepted his  divine  calling  and  followed 
him.  But  the  magistrates  and  the 
rulers,  the  high  and  the  mighty,  the 
professional  religionists,  were  not  among 
the  multitude  which  followed  him  to 
the  River  Jordan,  but  Jesus  came,  and 
Jesus  was  baptized  by  this  great  prophet, 
the  greatest  of  all  the  prophets,  said 
Jesus,  born  of  women.  (See  Luke  7:28.) 

These  prophets  were  not  dreamers, 
they  were  not  visionary  men — they  were 
practical  men.  They  saw  the  present 
and  the  future  needs  of  the  people  to 
whom  they  were  sent. 

President  Brigham  Young,  for  in- 
stance, was  a  great  prophet  and  more 
than  a  prophet.  He  was  called  to  a 
great  responsibility.  It  was  not  unlike 
that  which  fell  upon  Moses,  the  law- 
giver of  Israel,  during  the  years  of 
exodus  from  Egypt.  Both  of  them  were 
deeply  concerned  with  the  spiritual  and 
temporal  welfare  of  their  people. 

Looking  back  over  the  magnificent 
achievements  of  Brigham  Young  and 
those  who  followed,  we  can  picture  the 
tragic  exodus  of  covered  wagons  and 
handcart  companies.  Every  day  was  a 
challenge,  and  every  night  a  hazard,  full 
of  danger  and  uncertainty.  But  the 
sturdy  and  unconquerable  pioneers,  un- 
der their  prophet,  never  faltered;  they 
pressed  forward  to  their  destination.  On 
their  arrival,  they  beheld  a  barren 
wasteland,  covered  with  sagebrush  and 
possessed  by  the  savage  Indians.  What 
did  this  modern  prophet  do?  He  made 
friends  with  the  Indians.  He  cultivated 
the  soil,  and  he  irrigated  the  fields. 

Prophets  came  as  they  were  needed. 
May  we,  you  and  I,  heed  the  prophets 
who  live  today.   May  we  be  guided  by 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


51 


their  inspiring  instruction,  and  may  we 
undertake  with  them  to  build  up  God's 
kingdom  upon  the  earth,  and  eventually 
be  worthy  of  an  exaltation  in  that  king- 
dom, I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  concluded  speaking. 
The  congregation  will  now  sing,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet," 
conducted  by  Elvis  B.  Terry. 


After  the  singing  Bishop  Thorpe  B. 
Isaacson  will  speak  to  us. 

The  congregation  and  Choir  will  now 
sing.   

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  For  A  Prophet." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  will  now  speak  to 
us,  and  our  concluding  speaker  will  be 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


resident  McKay,  President 
Richards,  President  Clark,  my 
beloved  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  friends:  I  feel  very  hum- 
ble in  standing  before  you 
this  morning,  and  after  a 
great  deal  of  worrying  and  fasting  and 
praying,  I  hope  the  Lord  will  bless  me. 
I  shall  be  grateful  for  an  interest  in 
your  faith  and  prayers. 

I  would  like  to  thank  my  wife  now 
because  I  did  not  do  it  this  morning, 
when  she  was  kind  enough  to  offer  a 
very  beautiful  prayer  in  my  behalf. 
I  was  too  touched  then  to  do  it,  but  I 
would  not  feel  right  if  I  did  not  do  it 
now. 

I  had  prepared  one  or  two  thoughts, 
but  they  have  been  so  beautifully 
treated  already  that  I  do  not  feel  I  could 
possibly  add  anything  to  them.  I  was 
going  back  again  to  an  experience  I 
had  on  the  Hill  of  Calvary,  mentioned 
by  President  Clark  so  beautifully  yes- 
terday, Brother  Sill  today,  and  Brother 
Sonne  just  now.  I  shall  not  say  more 
on  that.  So  I  shall  entirely  rely  on  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  guide  me  today, 
in  what  I  might  say. 

It  is  good  to  see  many  in  the  audi- 
ence whom  we  meet  in  stakes  as  we 
come  to  you  each  Sunday  in  stake  con- 
ferences. Many  times  we  come  to  you 
as  total  strangers,  but  after  we  have 
been  with  you  for  a  couple  of  days,  we 
feel  as  if  we  have  known  you  forever. 
After  we  leave,  even  though  we  have 
held  many  meetings   and    are  tired 


physically,  we  are  uplifted  in  our  spirits 
and  our  faith  because  of  your  great  de- 
votion to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
to  the  responsibilities  to  which  you  have 
been  called. 

We  are  grateful  for  your  thoughtful- 
ness  and  for  your  kindness  and  courtesy 
to  us.  We  are  grateful  to  you  for  your 
encouragement.  I  cannot  help  express- 
ing deep  affection  and  appreciation  for 
the  stake  presidents  of  this  Church  and 
for  the  ward  bishoprics,  for  we  see  your 
great  devotion.  You  so  frequently  put 
aside  your  own  personal  interests  be- 
cause of  your  responsibilities  in  the 
Church,  and  particularly  among  the 
young  people  of  the  Church. 

I  wish  you  could  have  all  been  at  the 
meeting  in  the  temple  Thursday  morn- 
ing where  the  General  Authorities  were 
invited  and"  privileged  to  meet  with 
the  First  Presidency.  When  President 
McKay  was  speaking  to  us  and  sharing 
with  us  his  experiences  recently  in  Eu- 
rope, I  could  not  help  thinking  of  a 
passage  or  statement  that  Brigham 
Young  once  made  when  he  was  referring 
to  the  humble  man  who  converted  him 
to  the  Church.  He  said  something  like 
this,  "His  spirit  bore  witness  to  my 
spirit,  and  I  believed."  That  morning 
in  the  temple  it  was  as  if  the  Spirit  or 
the  Lord  was  speaking  to  the  President 
of  the  Church  and  prophet  of  the  Lord, 
and  his  Spirit  bore  witness  to  our  spirits, 
and  we  believed. 

I  cannot  help  thinking  you  are  par- 
taking of  that  same  Spirit  in  this  con- 


52 

Saturday,  October  1 

ference,  because  it  has  carried  over  into 
the  conference  so  beautifully,  and  we 
have  all  felt  that  Spirit.  What  is  that 
Spirit?  It  is  the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  and  we  are  privileged  to  enjoy 
that  Spirit  through  the  gift  and  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  for  which  I 
am  sure  all  members  of  the  Church 
are  very  grateful. 

Sometime  ago  it  was  my  privilege  to 
visit  one  of  the  army  camps,  a  large 
post  of  the  government  where  many  of 
our  Latter-day  Saint  boys  are  stationed. 
Many  of  them  are  stationed  there  for 
their  entire  time  in  the  army.  Because 
they  are  stationed  there  for  such  a  long 
time,  many  of  them  are  privileged  to 
bring  their  wives  and  children  to  live 
at  the  post. 

I  attended  their  Sunday  evening  serv- 
ice, and  when  I  entered  that  chapel  hall, 
it  was  filled  to  capacity.  It  was  a  thrill 
to  see  all  those  Latter-day  Saint  boys 
dressed  in  their  military  uniforms,  and 
in  the  main  accompanied  by  their  won- 
derful wives,  and  in  many  instances, 
their  new  babies. 

I  wish  all  the  parents  of  those  boys 
could  have  looked  in  on  them  that 
night  and  listened  to  some  of  them 
speak.  The  brotherhood  that  existed  in 
that  group  is  not  often  found  in  the 
world.  Those  men  loved  one  another. 
They  were  living  with  each  other  and 
praying  for  each  other.  I  saw  many  of 
the  young  men  in  that  audience  whose 
fathers  I  know.  I  saw  some  of  the  young 
married  women  with  their  babies  whose 
parents  I  know.  You  would  have  been 
very  proud  of  them.  They  told  me  that 
there  was  seldom  a  time  when  any  of 
our  Latter-day  Saint  boys  ever  missed 
this  Sunday  service.  President  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith  just  now  told  us  that 
our  servicemen  are  doing  a  great  work 
for  their  country  and  for  their  Church. 
Of  this  I  am  confident. 

After  that  wonderful  meeting  where 
we  were  all  spiritually  uplifted,  a  young 
man  came  up  to  me  with  his  wife, 
and  I  recognized  her.  I  knew  her  parents 
well.  He  asked,  "May  I  ride  with  you 
into  a  certain  city  where  tomorrow 
morning  I  must  go  to  the  hospital?  I 
have  an  appointment  to  be  there  by 
eight  o'clock."  We  told  him  that  he 
could  ride  with  us.  I  watched  him  bid 
goodnight  to  his  wife  and  baby  before 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

leaving  for  the  hospital  for  surgery. 
He  was  so  calm  and  so  wonderful,  and 
so  was  she. 

When  they  bade  each  other  good- 
night, I  thought  how  unusual.  What 
faith  those  two  young  people  have  in 
each  other!  What  confidence  they  have 
in  the  Lord!  But  it  did  not  take  me 
long  to  find  out  what  was  behind  it. 
As  we  were  riding  along,  I  asked,  "Will 
your  wife  get  to  see  you  while  you  are 
in  the  hospital?"  And  he  said,  "Oh  no. 
It  is  too  far  away,  and  she  hasn't  a 
car."  "Is  she  here  on  the  post  alone?" 
"Yes.  Her  folks  aren't  here,  and  my 
folks  aren't  here,  but  we  have  each 
other."  Then  he  said,  "We  have  the 
Lord,  so  she'll  get  along  all  right,  and 
I'll  be  just  fine.  I'll  be  home  in  a  few 
days." 

What  faith!  Then  he  said,  "While 
we've  been  out  here,  we've  had  won- 
derful experiences  that  mean  so  much 
to  us."  Then  he  gave  me  this  experi- 
ence as  near  as  I  can  repeat  it. 

They  were  going  to  have  a  new  baby, 
and  his  wife  was  not  at  all  well.  She 
had  not  been  well  for  months.  The 
doctor  was  worried  about  her,  and  so 
was  he.  There  they  were  alone,  except 
for  the  wonderful  buddies  that  were 
around  them,  but  no  parents  on  either 
side  were  there  with  them.  They  were 
far  from  home. 

One  day  the  doctor  called  this  young 
man  and  his  wife  to  his  office,  and 
said,  "I  think  I  ought  to  tell  you  that 
I  am  very  worried  about  your  wife,  and 
I  think  I  should  tell  you  that  even  your 
wife's  life  is  in  danger  as  well  as  that 
of  the  baby." 

Now,  that  would  be  quite  a  hard 
thing  for  a  young  couple  to  take.  The 
doctor  said,  "Come  back  in  three  days. 
I  am  going  to  have  another  specialist 
here  because  I  need  his  help.  I  am  not 
a  specialist  in  that  line,  but  I  know 
things  are  not  right."  He  had  made  a 
lot  of  tests,  examinations,  and  X-rays. 
So  in  three  days  he  asked  them  to  come 
back. 

That  young  couple  went  home  that 
night,  and  I  believe  as  nearly  every 
young  couple  would  do  in  this  Church, 
they  fasted,  and  they  prayed  nearly  all 
night,  pleading  with  the  Lord  to  bless 
her  that  she  would  be  well  and  that 
they  could  have  their  little  baby.  Next 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


53 


day  he  went  to  his  assignment.  He 
came  home  the  second  night,  and  they 
followed  that  same  procedure,  praying 
into  the  night  with  little  sleep.  The 
third  day  he  went  to  his  assignment, 
and  he  came  home  again.  They  fol- 
lowed that  same  procedure,  and  the 
three  days  were  up.  They  should  meet 
with  the  two  doctors  the  next  day. 

The  following  morning  when  the  sun 
came  up  and  his  wife  awoke,  she  said 
to  her  wonderful  sweetheart,  "I  feel 
much  better,"  and  as  he  looked  at  her, 
he  said,  "I  am  sure  you  are  better." 
Her  eyes  were  bright,  and  there  was  a 
little  color  in  her  cheeks,  but  they  went 
off  to  see  the  doctors.  When  they 
walked  in,  the  first  doctor  said  to  her, 
"Well,  you  look  so  much  better  today," 
and  she  said,  "I  feel  much  better." 

Then  the  new  doctor  and  the  first 
doctor  went  over  the  charts  and  the 
history  of  the  case.  The  second  doctor 
was  just  as  alarmed  after  he  studied 
the  charts  and  the  X-rays.  Other  X-rays 
were  taken,  and  the  two  doctors  took 
the  X-rays  and  developed  them  and 
went  into  the  other  room,  and  they 
couldn't  believe  their  eyes.  X-rays  do 
not  lie.  They  are  factual.  They  put 
these  X-rays  down  by  the  side  of  each 
other,  and  the  first  doctor  was  as- 
tounded, and  the  second  doctor  said, 
"Are  you  sure  these  are  the  same  X-rays 
you  took  before?"  .  "Oh  yes,"  he  said, 
"they  are  the  only  ones  I  have.  I  am 
sure  they  are  the  same  X-rays." 

They  went  back  out  to  the  office  and 
told  this  young  man  and  his  wife  that 
they  could  go  home,  that  there  was 
nothing  for  them  to  worry  about,  that 
everything  would  be  all  right.  The  new 
second  doctor  went  away,  assuring  the 
first  doctor  that  he  need  not  be  con- 
cerned. This  young  couple  was  very 
happy  and  knew  the  Lord  had  answered 
their  prayers. 

This  young  man  testified  to  me  that, 
of  course,  those  doctors,  not  being  in  the 
Church,  could  not  understand  the  power 
of  the  priesthood.  They  could  not  un- 
derstand our  faith  and  the  prayers  and 
the  fasting  of  these  young  people.  "That 
night  when  we  went  home,"  the  young 


man  said,  "we  spent  most  of  that  night 
thanking  the  Lord  for  his  blessings  and 
for  the  miracle  that  had  been  per- 
formed, and  in  two  or  three  weeks  we 
had  our  new  baby.  You  saw  her  to- 
night— a  beautiful,  healthy,  lovely 
baby."  Then  he  bore  a  strong  testi- 
mony, testifying  to  the  power  of  the 
priesthood;  and  his  witness  and  his 
testimony  was  wonderful  for  a  young 
man.  I  am  sure  that  such  testimonies 
are  shared  by  thousands  and  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints.  What 
would  that  young  man  and  his  wife 
have  done  if  they  had  not  had  that 
faith?  What  would  they  have  done 
if  they  couldn't  go  to  the  Lord? 

So,  I  would  plead  with  all  young 
married  couples  that  you  should  be  care- 
ful in  everything  you  do  so  that  noth- 
ing will  prevent  you  from  going  to  the 
Lord  when  you  are  faced  with  similar 
problems,  and  you  will  be  faced  with 
them.  Perhaps  not  the  exact  one  of 
this  young  couple,  but  many  similar. 
You  will  need  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
just  as  that  wonderful  young  couple 
needed  them. 

I  would  plead  with  all  of  us  that  we 
adjust  our  affairs  and  our  lives  and 
our  living  so  that  when  the  time  comes 
that  we  need  the  blessings  of  the  Lord, 
we  can  go  to  him  and  know  that  he  will 
hear  us  and  grant  our  petitions. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  I  know 
that  God  lives.  Yes,  his  Spirit  has 
borne  witness  to  my  spirit,  and  I  be- 
lieve, and  I  know,  and  I  know  Jesus 
was  the  Son  of  God—our  Savior  and 
our  Redeemer.  We  should  love  him 
for  the  mission  and  the  sins  that  he 
took  upon  himself  that  we  might  live — 
probably  God's  greatest  gift  to  man. 

God  bless  you,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  addressed  us. 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  will  be  our  concluding 
speaker. 


54 

Saturday,  October  1 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Second  Day 


I  he  excellent  remarks  of  Elder 
Sterling  W.  Sill  this  morn- 
ing have  recalled  a  story  I 
heard  repeated  in  a  very  im- 
pressive talk  which  was  given 
recently  where  I  was  assigned 
to  dedicate  a  new  chapel.  Our  atten- 
tion was  called  to  the  name  on  the 
front  of  the  building — The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  This 
is  the  story  that  was  to  impress  our 
responsibility  to  Him  in  whose  name 
we  were  then  in  meeting. 

It  was  in  1909  at  the  University  of 
Edinburgh.  Lord  Balfour,  then  the 
Prime  Minister  of  England,  was  de- 
livering an  address  on  the  subject  of 
moral  values  which  unite  nations.  He 
spoke  of  the  common  knowledge  and 
the  common  commercial  resources  which 
nations  had  to  unite  them,  their  social 
intercourse  made  possible  through  dip- 
lomatic relationships,  the  bonds  of  hu- 
man friendships,  and  the  improved 
methods  of  communication;  and  then 
closed  his  address  amid  the  thunderous 
applause  of  those  who  had  heard  his, 
as  judged  by  the  world's  standards, 
masterful  address. 

But  the  applause  was  interrupted  by 
a  Japanese  student  who  was  studying  at 
the  University.  He  stood  up  in  the 
gallery  and  asked,  "But  Mr.  Balfour, 
what  about  Jesus  Christ?"  There  was  a 
hushed  silence  as  the  presiding  officer 
arose  to  conclude  the  meeting.  They 
had  heard  a  stern  rebuke  thus  voiced 
by  one  of  a  pagan  nation  to  the  repre- 
sentative of  one  of  the  greatest  so-called 
Christian  nations  on  the  face  of  the 
earth,  for  in  his  address  Mr.  Balfour 
had  omitted  the  greatest  and  most 
fundamental  of  all  essential  bonds 
which  would  unite  the  nations  of  the 
earth. 

The  essentiality  of  that  knowledge  of 
the  Savior  and  his  divine  mission  was 
impressed  by  the  Master  on  one  occa- 
sion when  he  said  to  the  Pharisees  who 
had  gathered  around  him,  as  they  usual- 
ly did  to  try  to  embarrass  or  to  entrap 
him,  "What  think  ye  of  Christ?  .  .  ." 
And  they  answered,  "The  son  of  David" 


(Matt.  22:42) — referring  of  course  to  his 
Israelitish  lineage. 

In  all  likelihood  the  Master  was  try- 
ing to  call  them  back  to  what  John, 
the  forerunner  of  the  Master,  had 
taught  when  he  had  impressed  the  vital 
importance  of  this  essential  knowledge 
in  his  declaration. 

He  that  believeth  on  the  Son  hath  ever- 
lasting life:  and  he  that  believeth  not  the 
Son  shall  not  see  life;  but  the  wrath  of 
God  abideth  on  him.  (John  3:36.) 

During  his  ministry  there  had  been 
others  not  possessed  of  faith  who  had 
declared  themselves  about  the  Master. 
In  his  home  country  of  Nazareth  they 
had  said  in  derision: 

Is  not  this  the  carpenter's  son?  is  not 
his  mother  called  Mary?  and  his  brethren, 
James,  and  Joses,  and  Simon,  and  Judas? 
.  .  .  And  they  were  offended  in  him. 

The  Master  sadly  replied: 

A  prophet  is  not  without  honour  save  in 
his  own  country,  and  in  his  own  house. 
(Matthew  13:55,  57.) 

On  another  occasion  they  said  of  him 
in  scorn: 

The  Son  of  man  came  eating  and  drink- 
ing, and  they  say,  Behold  a  man  gluttonous, 
and  a  winebibber,  a  friend  of  publicans  and 
sinners.  .  .  .  {Ibid.,  11:19.) 

In  Jerusalem  the  scribes  which  came 
down  said, 

He  hath  Beelzebub,  and  by  the  prince  of 
the  devils  casteth  he  out  devils.  (Mark 
3:22.) 

In  contrast  to  these  unsavory  epithets, 
his  faithful  followers  such  as  Peter,  the 
chiefest  of  the  apostles  declared:  "Thou 
art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living 
God."  (Matt  16:16)— and  from  his 
faithful  Martha,  "Yea  Lord:  I  believe 
that  thou  art  Christ,  the  Son  of  God, 
which  should  come  into  the  world." 
(John  11:27.)  And  from  another  of 
his  disciples  after  he  had  seen  and 
handled  the  Risen  Lord,  Thomas  im- 


ELDER  HA 

pressed  his  testimony  with  these  simple 
words:  "My  Lord  and  my  God!"  (Ibid., 
20:28.)  The  measure  of  difference  be- 
tween those  two  groups  of  individuals 
who  answered  the  query,  "What  think 
ye  of  Christ?"  (Matt.  22:42)  was  the 
quality  of  which  the  Master  had  spoken 
of  in  his  great  Sermon  on  the  Mount: 
"Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart:  for  they 
shall  see  God."  (Ibid.,  5:8.) 

Our  responsibility  as  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  to  declare  the 
mission  of  the  Savior  was  impressed 
upon  us  recently  in  a-  council  meeting 
when  President  David  O.  McKay  made 
this  significant  statement: 

This  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
it  is  our  obligation  to  preach  to  the  world 
that  he  is  the  Son  of  God,  our  Redeemer 
and  our  Savior — not  just  a  great  teacher, 
but  in  reality  the  Son  of  our  Father  in 
heaven,  and  the  Redeemer  of  the  world; 
that  he  has  broken  the  bands  of  death 
and  has  brought  resurrection,  that  through 
him,  by  obedience  to  the  gospel,  we  will 
gain  eternal  exaltation  in  his  kingdom. 
May  the  Lord  give  us  power  and  increase 
our  ability  to  represent  him  in  the  world. 

In  that  memorable  Wentworth  Letter, 
historically  important  to  the  Church, 
where  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  an- 
swered the  query  as  to  what  the  Church 
believed,  was  the  statement:  "We  be- 
lieve in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and 
in  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the 
Holy  Ghost." 

The  symbolism  of  our  belief  and  our 
declaration  to  the  world  is  to  be  found 
everywhere.  As  I  saw  the  pictures  of 
the  Swiss  Temple,  I  read  the  words 
above  the  entrance  and  again  recalled 
that  on  many  of  our  other  sacred  struc- 
tures are  those  significant  words:  "Holi- 
ness to  the  Lord."  As  you  go  out  of 
this  Tabernacle,  look  upon  the  west 
towers  of  the  great  Salt  Lake  Temple, 
and  just  underneath  the  battlements 
will  you  see  the  dipper  pointing  to  the 
North  Star — the  symbolism,  as  ex- 
plained by  Truman  O.  Angell,  the 
architect  of  the  temple,  in  an  article 
written  in  the  Millennial  Star  for  the 
British  Saints,  suggesting  that  through 
the  priesthood  of  Almighty  God  the  lost 
may  find  their  way.  As  you  go  into  the 
great  Salt  Lake  Temple,  you  will  see 
what  the  pioneers  did  to  symbolize 
every  move  they  were  to  make  through 


OLD  B.  LEE  55 

that  sacred  building.  Even  on  almost 
every  doorknob  there  has  been  cast  in 
the  beauty  of  their  artistry  those  same 
words,  "Holiness  to  the  Lord."  By  that 
symbol  every  door  in  the  temples  of 
our  God,  indeed  every  step  we  take  in 
life,  is  opened  to  those  who  go  forward 
in  "Holiness  to  the  Lordl" 

The  dreariest  prospect  that  can  be 
imagined  to  those  who  have  not  only 
these  symbols  to  constantly  remind 
them,  but  also  the  testimony  of  that 
humble  boy  who  told  of  the  coming 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son  in  very  per- 
son to  converse  with  him,  who  bore 
testimony  that  other  worthies  came  and 
restored  their  powers,  and  their  keys  of 
the  priesthood, — the  dreariest  prospects 
of  those  of  this  Church  who  have  those 
testimonies  and  that  knowledge  given 
them,  is  that  to  be  found  in  the  Lord's 
castigation  of  those  who  have  been 
given  a  divine  calling  by  a  divine  com- 
mand and  had  disobeyed  when  he  said: 
"They  who  are  not  chosen  have  sinned 
a  very  grievous  sin  in  that  they  are 
walking  in  the  darkness  at  noon-day." 
(D  &  C  95:6.)  Then  he  added,  "If  ye 
keep  not  my  commandments,  the  love 
of  the  Father  shall  not  continue  with 
you,  therefore  ye  shall  walk  in  dark- 
ness." (Ibid.,  95:12.) 

Under  the  caption  of  an  article, 
"What  Makes  Men  Strong?"  recently, 
J.  Edgar  Hoover,  the  head  of  the 
Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation,  made 
this  significant  statement: 

When  a  man  leans  on  his  own  under- 
standing, when  he  lives  by  his  own  strength, 
when  he  boasts  of  probing  the  mysteries  of 
the  atom,  the  depths  of  the  sea,  or  the 
secrets  of  outer  space,  he  forgets  God  and 
claims  he  is  his  own  master.  The  result 
is  untold  suffering.  Even  though  one's 
position  is  maintained,  even  though  material 
wealth  increases,  a  success  quickly  turns  to 
failure  when  God  has  been  forgotten.  There 
is  no  peace  of  mind,  no  personal  satis- 
faction, no  personal  experience  of  inward 
joy.  To  "trust  in  the  Lord  with  all  thine 
heart"  is  a  mark  of  strength,  and  it  is  the 
only  path  to  happiness,  success,  and  true 
fulfilment. 

I  contrast  the  fearful  Peter  who,  on 
the  night  of  the  betrayal,  denied  that 
he  had  known  the  Savior,  with  that 
Peter  who  on  another  occasion,  after 
he  had  witnessed  the  appearances  of  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


56 

Saturday,  October  1 

Master,  in  jail,  being  readied  for  an- 
other inquisition  by  his  unjust  captors. 
He  was  not  surprised  when  an  angel 
touched  him  and  said,  "Arise  up  quick- 
ly," and  the  shackles  fell  from  him,  and 
when  he  went  to  the  door  he  found  it 
open.  He  went  to  the  outer  court,  and 
it  was  open;  then  he  went  to  the  home 
of  his  friends,  and  they  were  surprised 
because  from  the  time  of  his  imprison- 
ment they  had  been  praying  that  the 
Lord  by  his  matchless  powers  would 
undo  the  mischief  that  was  now  trying 
to  nullify  the  work  of  this  great  Church. 
He  was  not  afraid.  Why?  Because 
Peter  knew  the  power  of  the  risen  Lord. 
(See  Acts  12.) 

I  am  thinking  now  of  two  contrast- 
ing incidents.  A  dear  friend  received 
one  of  those  fateful  messages:  "We  re- 
gret to  inform  you  that  your  boy  has 
been  killed  in  action."  I  went  to  his 
home,  and  there  I  saw  the  shattered 
family,  possessed  of  all  the  things  that 
money  could  buy — wealth,  position,  the 
things  that  the  world  would  call  hon- 
orable, but  there  they  were  with  their 
hopes  and  dreams  shattered  around 
them,  grasping  for  something  that  they 
had  not  lived  to  obtain  and  from  that 
time  on,  seemingly  did  not  obtain.  The 
comfort  which  they  could  have  known 
was  not  there. 

I  contrasted  that  with  a  scene  I  wit- 
nessed up  in  the  LDS  Hospital  just 
about  six  months  ago  now,  when  one  of 
our  dear  faithful  mission  presidents  was 
there  slowly  dying.  He  was  in  extreme 
pain,  but  in  his  heart  there  was  a  joy 
because  he  knew  that  through  suffering 
ofttimes  men  learn  obedience,  and  the 
right  to  kinship  with  him  who  suffered 
beyond  all  that  any  of  us  can  ever 
suffer.  He,  too,  knew  the  power  of  the 
risen  Lord. 

Today  we  should  ask  ourselves  the 
question,  in  answer  to  what  the  Master 
asked  of  those  in  his  day,  "What  think 
ye  of  Christ?"  We  ought  to  ask  as  we 
would  say  it  today,  "What  think  we  of 
Christ?"  and  then  make  it  a  little  more 
personal  and  ask,  "What  think  I  of 
Christ?"  Do  I  think  of  him  as  the  Re- 
deemer of  my  soul?  Do  I  think  of  him 
with  no  doubt  in  my  mind  as  the  one 
who  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith?  Do  I  believe  that  he  established 
this  Church  upon  the  earth?   Do  I  ac- 


Second  Day 

cept  him  as  the  Savior  of  this  world? 
Am  I  true  to  my  covenants,  which  in 
the  waters  of  baptism,  if  I  understood, 
meant  that  I  would  stand  as  a  witness 
of  him  at  all  times,  and  in  all  things, 
and  in  all  places,  wherever  I  would  be, 
even  until  death?" 

Many  times  we  have  heard  and  sung 
that  hymn, 

That  I  might  have  seen  his  kind  look 
when  he  said, 

"Let  the  little  ones  come  unto  me." 

I  should  like  to  have  been  with  him  then. 

Some  have  said  they  would  have 
liked  to  live  in  the  days  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  so  that  they  could  have  been 
his  defenders.  Heber  C.  Kimball  wrote 
this: 

Let  me  say  that  many  of  you  will  see 
the  time  when  you  will  have  all  the  trouble, 
trial,  and  persecution  you  can  stand,  and 
plenty  of  opportunities  to  show  that  you 
were  true  to  God  and  his  work.  This 
Church  will  have  many  close  places  through 
which  it  will  have  to  pass  before  the  work 
of  God  is  crowned  with  victory.  To  meet 
the  difficulties  that  are  coming,  it  will  be 
necessary  for  you  to  have  a  knowledge  of 
the  truth  of  this  work  for  yourselves.  The 
difficulties  of  this  work  will  be  of  such  a 
character  that  a  man  or  woman  who  does 
not  possess  this  personal  knowledge  will  fall. 
Remember  these  saying,  for  many  of  you 
will  live  to  see  them  fulfilled.  The  time  is 
coming  when  no  man  or  woman  will  be 
able  to  endure  on  borrowed  light.  Each  will 
have  to  be  guided  by  the  light  within  him- 
self. If  you  do  not  have  it,  you  will  not 
stand. 

After  some  of  the  persecutions  and  the 
evidence  of  the  power  of  evil  over  our 
first  missionaries  in  London,  these  mis- 
sionaires  returned  to  the  Prophet  to 
seek  an  answer  as  to  why  these  experi- 
ences with  evil  spirits  had  come  to 
them.  Had  they  done  something  wrong 
that  the  evil  had  thus  tried  to  over- 
throw them?  And  the  Prophet  replied, 
"I  rejoiced  when  I  heard  of  your  ex- 
periences because  I  have  passed  through 
similar  experiences,  and  I  want  to  say 
this  to  you:  the  nearer  a  person  ap- 
proaches the  Lord,  a  greater  power  will 
be  manifested  by  the  adversary  to  pre- 
vent the  accomplishment  of  his  pur- 
poses." 

That  is  what  the  Master  meant  when 
he  said: 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


57 


Blessed  are  ye,  when  men  shall  revile 
you,  and  persecute  you,  and  shall  say  all 
manner  of  evil  against  you  falsely,  for  my 
sake. 

Rejoice,  and  be  exceeding  glad:  for  great 
is  your  reward  in  heaven:  for  so  perse- 
cuted they  the  prophets  which  were  before 
you.  (Matthew  5:11-12.) 

I  have  heard  some  of  the  testimonies 
of  men  like  Brother  Hugh  B.  Brown  and 
Brother  Adam  S.  Bennion,  and  Brother 
Richard  L.  Evans,  who,  when  they  were 
called  to  their  high  places  have  been 
subjected  to  the  trials  of  the  power  of 
evil.  There  is  no  question  in  my  mind 
but  that  they  were  near  unto  the  Lord, 
and  the  devil  knew  it  and  was  trying 
to  confuse  them  and  if  possible  destroy 
them. 

You  and  I  stand  in  this  day  when  we 
are  basking  in  the  sunshine  of  great 
plaudits  of  the  people  all  over  the 
world.  We  rejoice  that  the  persecu- 
tion which  used  to  be  is  not  now,  and 
yet  I  am  sobered  by  the  warning  that 
the  Master  gave  when  he  warned: 

Woe  unto  you,  when  all  men  shall  speak 
well  of  you!  for  so  did  their  fathers  to  the 
false  prophets.  (Luke  6:26.) 

When  I  think  of  that  warning,  I  am 
remembering  the  words  which  sobered 
the  people  of  England  after  one  of  their 
great  jubilee  celebrations,  when  Kip- 
ling wrote: 

The  tumult  and  the  shouting  dies; 
The  Captains  and  the  Kings  depart: 
Still  stands  Thine  ancient  sacrifice, 
An  humble  and  a  contrite  heart. 
Lord  God  of  hosts,  be  with  us  yet, 
Lest  we  forget,  lest  we  forget. 

May  I  echo  and  paraphrase  those 
words  of  Kipling  and  say  that  while 
today  we  glory  in  that  which  our  Presi- 
dent has  reported  to  us  as  the  good 
feeling  of  the  peoples  of  the  world — 
may  I  say  to  all  of  us,  each  of  us  in- 
dividually, let  us  not  forget  that  the 
measure  of  our  acceptance  in  the  king- 


dom of  our  God  will  be  our  answer  to 
the  question  which  we  must  make  hon- 
estly to  ourselves:  "What  think  I  of 
Jesus  Christ?  What  kind  of  a  testi- 
mony do  I  have  of  the  divinity  of  his 
mission?" 

God  grant  that  we  may  not  lose  that 
testimony.  I  bear  you  my  testimony 
that  I  know  that  he  is  the  Savior  of 
this  world,  and  I  bear  that  testimony 
humbly  and  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  addressed  us. 
The  Mutual  Improvement  Association 
Choruses  from  the  Salt  Lake  Valley 
stakes  will  now  sing,  "Behold,  God  the 
Lord  Passed  By,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Elvis  B.  Terry.  The  closing  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Antone  K. 
Romney,  president  of  the  Provo  Stake, 
after  which  this  Conference  will  be  ad- 
journed until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

We  are  favored  now  to  hear  this 
pleasing  group  of  singers,  our  young 
men  and  young  women,  sing  the  clos- 
ing song. 


The  M.I.A.  Chorus  from  the  Salt  Lake 
Valley  Stakes  sang  the  selection,  "Be- 
hold, God  the  Lord  Passed  By." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Will  President  Critchlow,  president 
of  the  South  Ogden  Stake,  come  to  the 
rostrum  immediately  at  the  close  of 
this  meeting. 

President  Antone  K.  Romney  will 
now  offer  the  benediction. 


Elder  Antone  K.  Romney,  President 
of  the  Provo  Stake  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock 


p.m. 


President  David  O.  McKay  presided 


and  commenced  the  meeting  promptly 
at  the  time  appointed. 
The  M.I.A.  Chorus  from  the  Salt  Lake 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  I 

Valley  Stakes  was  present  and  furnished 
the  choral  music  for  the  meeting,  with 
Ruth  Hardy  Funk  conducting  and  Roy 
M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  cable  which  I  hold  in  my  hand 
was  sent  today  from  Buenos  Aires, 
South  America,  and  illustrates  how 
close  our  far  away  members  are  to  us 
here  at  headquarters.  It  is  from  Presi- 
dent Valentine,  who  says,  "The  Ar- 
gentine Saints  and  missionaries  are  all 
safe.  Joining  you  in  spirit  at  Confer- 
ence." 

Again  the  great  Tabernacle  on  Tem- 
ple Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  is  filled 
to  capacity.  Every  seat  is  taken,  so  far 
as  we  can  observe,  and  there  are  peo- 
ple standing  in  the  doorways,  at  this 
the  fourth  session  of  the  126th  Semi- 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Overflow  meetings  are  being  held  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall 
and  services  are  being  televised  over 
KSL-TV,  Channel  5,  and  broadcast  over 
Radio  Station  KSL,  and  by  arrangement 
over  eleven  radio  stations  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Oregon,  Arizona,  and  California. 
And  this  is  particularly  interesting:  spe- 
cial television  cable  installation  will  be 
shown  in  four  chapels  in  Pocatello, 
Idaho,  and  by  special  arrangement  over 
three  television  stations  in  Idaho.  The 
names  of  these  stations  have  already 
been  announced  to  the  radio  audience. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon's  ses- 
sion will  be  by  the  Mutual  Improve- 


Second  Day 

ment  Association  Chorus  from  the  Salt 
Lake  Valley  stakes,  with  Sister  Ruth 
Hardy  Funk  conducting,  and  Elder 
Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  by  the  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association  Chorus  singing, 
"Let  the  Mountains  Shout  for  Joy,"  con- 
ducted by  Sister  Funk. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  David  E.  Heywood,  Sr.,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Phoenix  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  Chorus,  "Let  The 
Mountains  Shout  For  Joy." 

President  David  E.  Heywood,  Sr.  of 
the  Phoenix  Stake  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  David  E.  Heywood,  Sr.,  offered 
the  invocation.  He  is  president  of  the 
Phoenix  Stake. 

The  M.I.A.  Chorus  from  the  Salt 
Lake  Valley  stakes  will  now  favor  us 
with  "Jesus,  Name  of  Wondrous  Love," 
conducted  by  Sister  Ruth  Hardy  Funk, 
after  which  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  address 
us. 


The  Chorus  sang  the  anthem,  "Jesus, 
Name  of  Wondrous  Love." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first  speak- 
er this  afternoon.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


was  surely  pleased,  brothers 
and  sisters,  when  the  First 
Presidency  invited  these  won- 
derful young  people  to  sing  at 
this  conference,  and  I  would 
like  you  young  people  to 
know  how  grateful  I  am  for  your  will- 
ingness to  be  here  and  for  the  excel- 
lence of  your  performance. 

I  am  very  proud  of  the  MIA  and  the 
work  the  MlA  is  doing,  and  I  am  very 
proud  of  you  that  you  sing  so  beauti- 


fully to  our  Savior,  whom  I  know  you 
love.  I  am  glad  that  now,  this  year, 
together  with  all  the  rest  of  the  young 
people  of  the  Church,  every  week  you 
recite  our  MIA  theme  in  which  you  de- 
clare that  you  are  not  ashamed  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ.  I  know  you  love  it. 
I  hope  that  always  you  will  love  it  and 
that  you  will  be  faithful  and  true  in 
every  respect.  God  bless  you  for  your 
work. 

I  do  love  the  young  people  of  the 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


59 


Church,  and  I  love  their  faith.  As  I 
visit  with  them  from  time  to  time,  I 
know  that  the  Spirit  of  God  rests  upon 
them,  and  that  the  spirit  of  conversion 
is  in  them,  and  that  most  of  them  are 
serving  the  Lord  and  keeping  his  com- 
mandments. So  I  feel  very,  very  good 
about  the  rising  generation  and  about 
the  future  of  this  great  Church. 

Occasionally,  however,  there  are  some 
of  our  young  people  who  go  off  on  a 
tangent  and  do  not  keep  the  faith.  One 
day  I  had  a  young  man  come  in  to  visit 
with  me.  He  had  lost  his  faith.  He 
came  to  me  not  because  he  thought  I 
could  do  him  any  good,  but  because 
his  mother  had  asked  him  to  come  to 
one  of  the  brethren  and  see  if  some 
different  picture  might  be  given  to  him 
whereby  his  faith  might  be  restored. 
As  he  came  into  the  office  and  sat  down 
and  opened  the  subject,  he  told  me  he 
had  lost  his  faith,  and  he  told  me  in 
what  class  at  school  he  had  lost  it  and 
who  the  teacher  was  who  had  been  re- 
sponsible for  it. 

As  he  told  me  about  his  difficulty, 
he  said  that  he  could  not  believe  in 
God  any  more  because  who  could  be- 
lieve in  a  Creator  or  suppose  that  there 
was  some  being  who  could  create  an 
earth  like  this.  He  did  not  believe  in 
the  Savior  nor  that  the  Savior  ever 
wrought  out  an  atonement  that  would 
do  us  any  good.  How  could  the  death 
of  a  man  on  a  cross  two  thousand  years 
ago  benefit  a  person  now  in  this  mod- 
ern, enlightened  time?  And  who  could 
believe  in  a  resurrection?  It  was  all  just 
incredible. 

Then  my  mind  went  back  to  the 
time  Paul  stood  before  Agrippa  and  be- 
gan there  to  defend  his  faith  and  his 
faith  in  the  resurrection,  and  he  asked 
Agrippa,  you  will  remember,  why  he 
thought  it  was  incredible  that  God 
could  raise  the  dead. 

And  so  we  talked  together,  this  young 
man  and  I.  I  asked  him  if  there  was 
anything  in  this  modern  world  that  he 
considered  to  be  incredible.  He  could 
accept  most  things  that  are  going  on 
now.  | 

I  showed  him  a  picture  in  a  magazine 
of  a  little  platform  about  four  feet  in 
diameter,  with  a  railing  around  it,  and 
a  man  standing  in  the  middle. 


That  platform  stood  in  the  air  with- 
out any  visible  means  of  support. 

I  said,  "Do  you  believe  it  is  possible 
that  the  picture  you  see  there  really  is 
a  picture  of  something  that  happened 
and  that  a  man  could  stand  on  a  little 
platform,  six  or  twelve  feet  in  the  air — 
just  stand  there — and  that  by  turning  a 
little  handle  he  could  cause  this  plat- 
form to  move  up  or  down?" 

I  said,  "It  looks  incredible  to  me,  but 
there  is  a  photograph  of  it.  The  United 
States  Navy  has  it  and  is  using  it.  Does 
it  seem  incredible  to  you?  Does  it 
really  seem  possible  that  a  little  plat- 
form could  stand  in  the  air  like  that?" 

Then  I  asked  him  if  he  had  read  some 
of  the  things  that  are  being  spoken  of 
these  days  about  a  trip  to  the  moon. 
No  longer  is  it  idle  talk.  Men  are 
actually  talking  about  flying  to  the 
moon. 

They  are  going  to  prepare  what  they 
call  an  island  in  the  sky  as  a  spring- 
board, and  that  island  is  going  to  be 
stationary.  They  plan  to  fly  their  air- 
ship to  that  island,  get  out  on  it,  walk 
around,  and  then  take  off  again  and  go 
on  to  the  moon. 

Does  that  seem  incredible?  And  yet 
the  men  of  science  today  say  that  it  is 
within  the  realm  of  possibility.  They 
are  really  figuring  it  out.  Incredible? 

"No,"  he  said,  "it  isn't  incredible.  I 
believe  that  a  man  could  fly  to  such  an 
island  as  that  and  then  go  on  to  the 
moon." 

I  said,  "You  are  no  different  from  the 
scientists  of  the  world  who  are  believing 
the  same  thing  and  working  in  that 
direction.  But,"  I  said,  "is  it  any  more 
incredible  to  believe  that  a  man  could 
leave  this  earth  and  go  out  into  space 
than  to  believe  that  a  man  could  come 
from  space  and  visit  this  world?  Which 
is  more  difficult  to  believe,  that  you  or 
I  could  fly  to  the  moon  or  that  Moroni 
could  come  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith?" 

Then  he  said,  "But  then  there  is  that 
gold  plate  story  that  I  cannot  take." 

I  said,  "What  about  the  gold  plate 
story?" 

He  said,  "Well,  this  idea  that  there 
was  a  book  of  gold  plates  with  ancient 
inscriptions,  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
found  it  buried  in  the  ground." 

I  said,  "Would  you  believe  it  if  it 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


60 

Saturday,  October  1 

came  from  an  archaeologist?  If  an 
archaeologist  should  find  plates  of  an- 
cient vintage  with  inscriptions  upon 
them,  and  those  plates  were  metallic, 
would  you  accept  it?" 

He  said,  "Well,  I  could  believe  it 
because  archaeologists  are  men  of  sci- 
ence." 

I  said,  "These  men  of  science  have 
proven  that  there  are  such  things  as 
plates  of  gold.  They  themselves  have 
dug  up  metallic  plates  with  ancient 
inscriptions  on  them,  records  of  the  past, 
and  they  may  be  seen  in  museums  of  this 
day.  Is  that  incredible?  Is  it  any  more 
difficult  to  believe  that  an  archaeologist 
could  find  ancient  records  of  lead  or 
silver  or  copper  or  gold,  with  inscrip- 
tions, records  of  the  past,  than  to  be- 
lieve that  the  Nephites  made  records 
of  the  past  and  that  they  were  brought 
forth  in  our  day?  Which  is  the  more 
difficult  to  believe?" 

Then  he  said,  "But,  I  do  not  believe 
in  prayer." 

"Why  don't  you  believe  in  prayer?" 

"I  don't  believe  that  I  could  kneel 
down  in  my  bedroom  and  whisper  a 
few  words  and  have  God  way  up  in 
heaven,  if  there  is  a  God,  hear  what  I 
would  whisper  those  many,  many  miles 
away." 

Then  I  told  him  about  my  wife  and 
me  being  in  Buenos  Aires  last  Christ- 
mas. As  we  sat  with  the  missionaries 
in  the  mission  home  that  evening,  the 
telephone  rang,  and  we  said,  "Hello." 
On  the  other  end  of  that  telephone  wire 
and  across  space  where  there  were  no 
wires,  and  then  again  picked  up  by  other 
wires,  came  the  voices  of  our  daughter 
and  son-in-law  wishing  us  "Merry 
Christmas,"  saying  it  would  not  be 
Christmas  unless  they  could  speak  to 
us. 

Incredible?  There  we  were  in  Buenos 
Aires  speaking  in  a  normal  tone  of 
voice.  They  were  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
Our  voices  would  go  to  the  end  of  the 
wire,  and  then  they  would  travel  where 
there  would  be  just  space,  and  beyond 
the  space  over  another  wire.  Is  that  in- 
credible? If  man  can  do  that,  do  you 
not  suppose  God  could  hear  your 
prayer? 

Then  I  brought  up  another  thing. 
"In  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  you 
say  you  do  not  believe,  it  says  that  the 


Second  Day 

voice  of  Christ  was  heard  all  over  the 
land  by  the  people,  all  at  once,  simul- 
taneously. I  have  heard  people  like  you 
say  they  could  not  believe  that." 

"No,  I  could  not  believe  it,"  he  said. 

Incredible?  Which  is  more  difficult 
to  believe,  that  God  could  speak  in 
heaven  and  all  the  people  of  America 
hear  it,  or  that  the  President  of  the 
United  States  could  speak  in  the  White 
House  and  all  the  people  in  America 
hear  it?  Which  is  more  difficult  to 
believe?    Are  these  things  incredible? 

Then  he  brought  up  the  Bible.  "The 
Bible  is  full  of  stories  that  nobody  could 
believe." 

I  said,  "For  instance?" 

"Well,  I  don't  think  of  any  at  the 
moment." 

I  suggested  the  story  of  Moses  and  the 
bulrushes.  "Yes,  the  story  of  Moses 
and  the  bulrushes,"  he  quickly  said. 

"Do  you  not  know  that  the  archaeolo- 
gists have  discovered  facts  which  prove 
that  Moses  was  found  in  the  bulrushes 
by  a  daughter  of  Pharaoh,  and  that 
they  can  even  tell  you  the  name  of 
daughter  of  Pharaoh,  that  they  know 
now  from  ancient  records  which  they 
have  dug  up  that  that  story  is  true,  and 
that  Moses  was  reared  in  the  house- 
hold of  Pharaoh,  and  that  he  became 
a  leader  of  the  Israelites  and  led  them 
back  to  Palestine?  If  the  archaeologists 
have  proved  it,  is  it  any  longer  in- 
credible to  you?" 

"Well,  I  would  believe  them,  but  I 
would  not  believe  the  Bible." 

"What  about  the  story  of  Abraham? 
Do  you  believe  there  ever  was  an 
Abraham?" 

"No,  I  do  not." 

"But  the  archaeologists  have  also 
found  out  that  there  was  a  person  called 
Abraham,  a  great  astronomer  of  ancient 
times,  who  went  down  into  Egypt  and 
taught  the  Egyptians  astronomy.  That 
has  been  discovered.  Is  the  story  of  the 
Bible  then  incredible?" 

Then  I  said,  "I  would  like  to  tell  you 
something  that  is  incredible  to  me.  I 
can  believe  all  these  things,  but  I  would 
like  to  tell  you  something  that  is  in- 
credible." 

And  he  said,  "What  is  that?" 

I  said,  "It  is  incredible  to  me  to  be- 
lieve that  the  earth  could  be  made  by 
chance,  without  a  Creator." 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


61 


Then  I  took  from  my  bookcase  a  little 
book  called,  Man  Does  Not  Stand  Alone, 
by  Cressy  Morrison.  Cressy  Morrison 
is  past-president  of  the  New  York 
Academy  of  Science,  past-president  of 
the  American  Institute  of  New  York, 
member  of  the  Executive  Board  of  the 
National  Research  Council,  a  Fellow  of 
the  American  Museum  of  Natural  His- 
tory, a  life  member  of  the  Royal  Insti- 
tution of  Great  Britain.  He  wrote  this 
little  book  to  prove  from  the  standpoint 
of  an  up-to-date  scientist  that  it  would 
have  been  impossible  for  the  earth  to 
be  made  by  chance.  I  read  this: 

Suppose  you  take  ten  pennies  and  mark 
them  from  one  to  ten.  Put  them  in  your 
pocket  and  give  them  a  good  shake.  Now 
try  to  draw  them  out  in  sequence,  from  one 
to  ten,  putting  each  coin  back  in  your 
pocket  after  each  draw.  Your  chance  of 
drawing  number  one,  is  one  to  ten;  your 
chance  of  drawing  one  and  two  in  suc- 
cession would  be  one  in  a  hundred;  your 
chance  of  drawing  one,  two,  and  three  in 
succession  would  be  one  in  a  thousand. 
Your  chance  of  drawing  one,  two,  three, 
and  four  in  succession  would  be  one  in  ten 
thousand,  and  so  on  until  your  chance  of 
drawing  from  number  one  to  number  ten 
in  succession  would  reach  the  unbelievable 
figure  of  one  chance  in  ten  billion. 

Then  Morrison  goes  on  to  say: 

The  object  in  dealing  with  so  simple  a 
problem  is  to  show  how  enormously  figures 
multiply  against  chance.  So  many  essen- 
tial conditions  are  necessary  for  life  to 
exist  on  our  earth,  that  it  is  mathematically 
impossible  that  all  of  them  could  exist  in 
proper  relationship  by  chance,  on  any  one 
earth  at  any  one  time.  Therefore,  there 
must  be  in  nature  some  form  of  intelligent 
direction.  If  this  be  true,  then  there  must 
be  a  purpose. 

Then  he  reviewed  the  intricacy  of 
creation,  the  intricacy  of  our  own  lives, 
of  our  bodies,  the  bodies  of  other  living 
things,  even  of  little  plants.  He  talked 
about  evolution  and  said  that  Darwin's 
theory  was  concocted  before  science  had 
learned  about  the  genes.  "The  genes," 
he  says,  "keep  all  forms  of  life  within 
their  own  spheres.  Life  produces  crea- 
tions," he  said,  "of  varied  designs  in  the 
image  of  its  predecessors  and  gives  them 
the  power  to  repeat  themselves  for  un- 
told generations." 

Then  he  asked  the  question  whether  it 


is  really  incredible  to  believe  what  the 
Bible  says  about  everything  having  been 
formed  originally  to  bring  forth  after 
its  own  kind: 
Then  he  writes, 

No  oak  tree  ever  bore  chestnuts.  No 
whale  ever  gave  birth  to  a  fish,  and  waving 
fields  of  wheat  in  every  grain  are  wheat, 
and  corn  is  corn.  Law  governs  the  atomic 
arrangement  in  the  genes  which  absolutely 
determine  every  genus  of  life  from  begin- 
ning to  extinction. 

Then  he  makes  this  startling  state- 
ment: 

The  first  chapter  of  Genesis  contains  the 
real  story  of  creation,  and  its  essence  has 
not  been  changed  by  knowledge  acquired 
since  it  was  written.  The  differences  have 
arisen  over  details,  which  are  not  worth 
controversy. 

He  says  that  even  the  chronological 
arrangement  in  the  story  of  the  crea- 
tion as  given  in  Genesis  fits  into  the 
modern  scientific  knowledge,  and  then 
he  asks  the  question,  "Can  science  pick 
a  flaw  in  this  briefest  story  ever  told,  the 
world's  history  in  a  few  lines  of  print?" 
With  regard  to  the  story  of  creation,  he 
again  asks  whether  we  should  consider 
it  incredible. 

Finally,  as  he  closes  his  book,  he  says: 

The  existence  of  a  Supreme  Being  is 
demonstrated  by  infinite  adjustments  with- 
out which  life  itself  would  be  impossible. 
Man's  presence  on  earth  and  the  magnifi- 
cent demonstrations  of  his  intellect  are  a 
part  of  a  program  being  carried  out  by  the 
Supreme  Intelligence.  Let  us  then  hold 
fast  to  our  belief  in  a  Supreme  Intelligence, 
the  love  of  God  and  the  brotherhood  of 
man,  lifting  ourselves  closer  to  him  by  do- 
ing his  will. 

I  was  certainly  happy,  recently  to 
read  a  graduation  address  delivered  at 
the  commencement  exercises  of  one  of 
our  large  universities,  by  Dr.  Joseph  W. 
Barker,  president  and  chairman  of  the 
Research  Corporation  of  America  and 
formerly  dean  of  the  engineering  school 
of  Columbia  University. 

He  explained  in  his  address  that  the 
scientists  of  the  nineteenth  century  had 
been  misled  by  certain  of  their  observa- 
tions and  as  a  result  came  to  conclu- 
sions which  definitely  were  atheistic, 
but  now  he  says: 


62 

Saturday,  October  I 

Even  the  most  pragmatic  materialist  in 
the  face  of  present-day  scientific  knowledge, 
is  led  to  the  inevitable  conclusion  that 
the  heavens  declare  the  glory  of  God  and 
the  firmaments  showeth  his  handiwork. 

As  the  children  of  Israel  foreswore  the 
worship  of  the  golden  calf  and  returned  to 
the  faith  of  Jehovah,  so  have  we  foresworn 
the  crass  mechanistic  materialism  and  re- 
turned to  that  faith  in  God,  of  which  the 
Psalmist  of  old  sang:  "The  earth  is  the 
Lord's,  and  the  fulness  thereof;  the  world, 
and  they  that  dwell  therein."  (Psalm  24:1.) 

To  paraphrase  the  words  of  Paul: 
Why  should  it  be  thought  a  thing  in- 
credible with  you,  that  there  should  be 
a  God?  Why  should  it  be  a  thing 
incredible  with  you,  that  he  should 
speak  to  men  and  show  himself  to  them? 
Why  should  it  be  a  thing  incredible 
with  you,  that  he  should  record  the  his- 
tory of  his  people  on  plates  of  gold? 
Why  should  it  be  a  thing  incredible 
with  you  that  a  little  boy  of  fourteen 
years  should  go  into  a  grove  of  trees 
near  his  home,  pray  to  God  in  all  hu- 
mility and  receive  an  answer? 

I  testify  to  you,  and  I  testify  to  all 
men,  that  God  has  made  known  to  me 
that  he  lives,  and  I  know  it  as  well  as  I 
know  that  I  live.  He  has  given  me 
testimony  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

his  literal  Son  in  the  flesh,  and  that  he 
is  our  Savior,  and  our  Redeemer. 

And  he  has  given  to  me  testimony 
that  Joseph  Smith  truly  knelt  in  prayer 
and  in  answer  received  the  glorious 
visitation  in  which  he  talked  face  to 
face  with  the  Father  and  the  Son. 

And  he  has  given  me  personal  testi- 
mony that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true. 
I  know  it  as  well  as  the  three  witnesses 
or  the  eight  witnesses  who  held  the 
plates  in  their  hands.  I  know  it.  God 
has  made  it  known  to  me,  and  I  give 
you  my  testimony.   It  is  not  incredible. 

And  I,  together  with  the  young  people 
of  the  Church,  "am  not  ashamed  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ:  for  it  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation  to  every  one  that 
believeth." 

May  we  be  faithful  and  true  to  our 
trust,  true  to  the  restored  gospel,  and 
not  be  incredulous,  is  my  humble 
prayer,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith, 
Patriarch  to  the  Church,  will  now  ad- 
dress us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Milton  R.  Hunter. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


Y  BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS:  It 

*  is  a  thrilling  experience  to 
be  in  these  conferences. 
Nevertheless,  I  humbly 
seek  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers  in  my 
behalf. 

I  have  heard  President  Clark  a  num- 
ber of  times  refer  to  his  theme  song,  as  he 
calls  it,  that  of  unity,  and  with  his  per- 
mission I  would  like  to  join  his  chorus. 
We  should  all  join  his  chorus,  not  alone 
in  words,  but  in  action.  Paul  taught 
the  same  doctrine  when  he  wrote  to  the 
Ephesians: 

I  therefore  .  .  .  beseech  you  that  ye  walk 
worthy  of  the  vocation  wherewith  ye  are 
called, 

With  all  lowliness  and  meekness,  with 
longsuffering,  forbearing  one  another  in 
love; 


Endeavoring  to  keep  the  unity  of  the 
Spirit  in  the  bond  of  peace. 

There  is  one  body,  and  one  Spirit,  even 
as  ye  are  called  in  one  hope  of  your  calling; 

One  Lord,  one  faith,  one  baptism, 

One  God  and  Father  of  all,  who  is  above 
all,  and  through  all,  and  in  you  all.  (Eph. 
4:1-6.) 

When  I  talk  about  unity  in  the 
gospel,  I  am  often  reminded  of  an  ex- 
perience that  I  had  while  on  a  mission 
in  Germany.  When  this  German  Choir 
sang  for  us  yesterday  in  the  conference 
meetings,  I  was  reminded  again  of  those 
experiences,  especially  when  I  was  as- 
signed to  work  in  Celle  in  the  Hanover 
District  in  Germany.  Once  a  month  we 
went  to  the  little  town  of  Uelzen,  which 
was  a  self-sustaining  branch.  We  went 
there  to  get  their  reports  and  to  help 
them  as  we  could.  Since  my  companion 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


63 


was  assigned  to  the  branch  at  the  same 
time  I  was,  this  first  visit  to  Uelzen  was 
a  new  experience  for  both  of  us. 

We  took  our  seats  in  the  first  meet- 
ing we  attended  in  the  front  of  the  hall. 
The  branch  president  announced  that 
the  meeting  would  be  started  by  the 
choir  singing  such  and  such  a  song. 
I  looked  about  and  found  no  choir  up 
in  front,  but  before  I  could  ask  any 
questions  or  discover  an  answer  to  the 
problem  in  my  mind  as  to  where  the 
choir  was  coming  from,  my  companion 
and  I  found  ourselves  the  only  ones 
sitting  in  the  audience.  The  entire  con- 
gregation, except  for  my  companion  and 
me,  had  gone  up  to  the  front  and  sang 
as  a  choir.  It  is  no  wonder  we  have 
Saints  who  can  come  here  and  pro- 
duce a  chorus  such  as  we  had  yesterday. 

I  found  from  the  reports  that  they 
not  only  all  sang  together,  but  they 
also  worked  together.  I  found  that  there 
was  100  percent  membership  of  the 
branch  paying  100  percent  tithing,  and 
that  was  not  just  the  month  that  I  went 
there  on  that  one  visit,  but  that  was  the 
report  I  got  all  the  time  I  was  there. 
Attendance  in  their  meetings  was  the 
same.  They  worked  together  in  every- 
thing they  did.  I  discovered,  also,  that 
there  were  two  women  in  the  branch 
at  that  time  whose  husbands  had  gone 
to  America,  and  that  the  branch  had 
agreed  together,  before  these  two  men 
left,  that  they  would  all  work  together; 
they  would  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord  to  the  best  of  their  ability; 
they  would  do  all  that  was  required  of 
them  without  excuse;  nothing  would 
stop  them  from  fulfilling  the  responsi- 
bilities given  to  them.  Those  who  re- 
mained in  the  branch  would  see  to  it 
that  the  wives  of  these  two  men  were 
taken  care  of,  that  they  would  not  be 
in  need.  j 

The  two  men  who  left  for  America 
agreed  that  they  would  do  likewise  in 
living  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
and  that  they  would  find  jobs  and  work 
hard  and  save  their  money  and  send 
for  their  wives  as  soon  as  possible.  It 
was  not  long  until  I  was  transferred 
from  that  section  of  Germany,  and  then 
soon  after,  I  was  released  to  come  home. 

Some  twenty  years  later,  after  I  be- 
came Patriarch  to  the  Church,  I  had  an 
appointment  to  give  a  blessing  to  a 


young  girl.  When  she  arrived,  her 
mother  was  with  her.  I  found  that  the 
mother  was  one  of  those  two  sisters 
whose  husbands  had  left  Uelzen  when 
I  was  over  there.  I  had  a  long  talk 
with  this  sister  and  her  daughter.  The 
daughter,  of  course,  had  grown  up  from 
a  small  child,  and  her  mother  told  me 
this  story:  that  one  by  one,  or  two  at  a 
time,  as  occasion  came,  different  mem- 
bers of  the  branch  would  have  the  op- 
portunity of  leaving  and  coming  to 
America,  until  finally,  before  World 
War  II  broke  out,  there  was  not  one 
member  of  the  >  Church  left  in  that 
branch  in  Uelzen.  They  had  all  come 
to  America  safely  before  the  war  broke 
out. 

Then  she  told  me  also  that  in  the  end 
of  the  war,  when  the  American  soldiers 
invaded  that  section  of  Germany,  for 
some  reason  unknown  to  her,  the  Ger- 
man soldiers  set  up  a  resistance  in 
Uelzen  which  resulted  in  a  four-day 
battle.  The  bombings  and  general 
destruction  were  such  that  there  was 
not  a  house  left  in  the  section  where 
most  of  the  Saints  had  lived,  yet  there 
was  not  a  member  of  the  Church  left 
in  Uelzen — a  result  and  reward  of  unity, 
working  together  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord. 

I  could  tell  another  story  of  another 
branch  in  Germany  where  they  worked 
more  as  individuals.  None  of  them 
left  Germany,  and  as  a  result  of  the 
war  the  entire  city  was  destroyed.  I 
received  a  letter  from  one  of  the  mem- 
bers there  who  told  me  that  even  some 
of  the  members  lost  their  lives,  their 
friends,  and  some  of  the  members  of 
their  families  lost  their  lives  in  that 
war  and  the  destruction  in  that  city. 
They  were  good  Saints,  but  they  had 
not  learned  the  lesson  of  working  to- 
gether as  the  Saints  in  Uelzen  had 
learned. 

This  is  a  challenge  to  us,  brothers 
and  sisters,  that  we  might  do  as  they 
did  in  Uelzen — not  just  to  move  to  an- 
other section,  but  that  we  might  live 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord  as  they 
did.  They  did  it  for  a  special  purpose, 
and  the  Lord  blessed  them  in  their  ef- 
forts. We  have  a  responsibility  today 
to  unite  together  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord.  We  need  to 
be  united  in  keeping  his  commandments 


64 

Saturday,  October  1 

more  now  than  ever  before  because  the 
eyes  of  the  world  are  upon  us  now 
more  than  ever  before. 

With  this  tour  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  in  Europe,  some  of  us  might 
think,  "Well,  that  was  just  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir.  That  was  something  they 
did.  I  do  not  have  to  take  part  in  that." 
There  is  not  one  of  us  who  is  a  member 
of  the  Church  who  does  not  take  part 
in  it,  and  we  cannot  afford  to  let  the 
choir  down.  We  have  to  live  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  to  bolster  up 
what  they  have  done  in  Europe,  for  now 
truly,  as  we  sang  yesterday  in  our  con- 
ference meeting: 

"High  on  the  mountaintop 
A  banner  is  unfurled; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Ye  nations  now  look  up; 
It  waves  to  all  the  world." 


To  keep  that  banner  flying,  we  must 
stand  unitedly  valiant  in  the  faith,  and 
I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  that 
we  might  be  united;  that  we  will  be 
unitedly  valiant  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord,  and  in  sustain- 
ing our  testimonies  of  this  gospel,  for 
this  is  the  strength  and  the  power  of  the 
gospel,  and  this  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy  will  be  our  next  speaker. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


|Y  dear  brethren  and  sisters: 
I  humbly  pray  that  I  shall 
be  guided  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  in  the  brief  re- 
marks that  I  make  this 
afternoon. 
I  hold  here  in  my  hand  what  I  con- 
sider to  be  three  of  the  most  valuable 
treasures  in  the  world.  From  a  mone- 
tary standpoint,  they  are  beyond  price. 
If  all  of  the  people  in  the  world  would 
make  complete  application  of  what  these 
three  treasures  contain,  utilizing  them  to 
the  fullest,  I  believe  their  contents 
would  do  more  good  for  the  human 
family  than  do  all  the  armies  in  the 
world,  all  the  kings  that  sit  on  thrones, 
all  the  governments  that  rule,  or  any 
other  things  that  we  might  attain  in 
this  world.  I  am  holding  in  my  hand 
the  Latter-day  Saints'  triple  combina- 
tion of  holy  scriptures — the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  They  con- 
tain the  word  of  God  as  revealed  in  the 
latter  days  from  heaven  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  for  the  salvation 
and  exaltation  of  all  the  members  of  the 
human  family  who  will  receive  their 
divine  teachings  and  render  obedience. 

Members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  accept  one  more  book  as  scrip- 
ture— the  Holy  Bible — and  hence  they 


regard  it  as  authoritative  and  binding 
on  their  lives.  I  shall  not  speak  of  that 
scripture  today  but  confine  my  remarks 
to  the  scriptures  given  to  the  world  by 
the  power  of  the  Lord  through  his 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

The  first  of  these  three  scriptures  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  it  appears  in 
the  triple  combination,  is  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  This  volume  contains  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  the  ancient 
Americans  received  and  understood  it. 

The  most  vital  purpose  that  the  writ- 
ers had  in  mind  in  preparing  the  Book 
of  Mormon  was  that  it  should  serve  as 
a  new  witness  for  Christ,  especially  a 
new  witness  for  Christ  to  the  Jews  and 
gentiles  in  the  latter  days.1  It  was 
written  to  verify  the  messiahship  of  the 
Only  Begotten  as  proclaimed  in  the  Old 
and  New  Testaments. 

Towards  the  close  of  his  life,  Nephi, 
the  first  writer  on  the  Nephite  records, 
handed  the  plates  to  his  brother  Jacob 
and  instructed  Jacob  to  record  care- 
fully 

.  .  .  preaching  which  was  sacred,  or  revela- 
tion which  was  great,  or  prophesying,  .  .  . 
and  touch  upon  them  as  much  as  it  were 
possible,  for  Christ's  sake,  .  .  .2 

*2  Nephi  26:12;  Mormon  5:9-14. 
sjacob  1:4. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


65 


And  so  the  Nephite  records  were 
written  and  preserved  to  come  forth  in 
the  latter  days  to  bear  witness  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
the  Mediator  between  the  heavens  and 
the  earth,  the  Only  Begotten  of  the 
Eternal  Father  in  the  flesh,  and  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  human  family.  A  care- 
ful reading  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
convinces  one  that  not  only  Jacob  but 
also  all  the  prophets  who  succeeded 
him  carefully  followed  Nephi's  injunc- 
tion. Throughout  the  entire  book  wit- 
ness is  born  almost  continuously  to  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Lamb  of  God, 
the  Anointed  One  of  Israel. 

In  fact,  Moroni,  the  last  prophet  of 
the  Nephite  race,  in  his  preface  to  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  pointed  out  that  the 
record  had  been  written  primarily  for 
the  purpose  of 

.  .  .  the  convincing  of  the  Jew  and  Gentile 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Eternal  God, 
manifesting  himself  unto  all  nations —  .  .  . 

I  think  that  both  the  Jaredite  and 
Nephite  prophets  did  an  excellent  work 
in  giving  us  much  evidence  of  the  di- 
vinity and  mission  of  Jesus  Christ;  thus 
making  the  Book  of  Mormon  indeed  a 
a  new  witness. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  contains  a  num- 
ber of  teachings  which  help  to  explain, 
amplify,  and  clarify  doctrine  found  in 
the  Bible;  for  example,  according  to  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount  as  recorded  in 
the  Gospel  of  Matthew,  while  Jesus  was 
talk;ng  to  the  entire  multitude  of  peo- 
ple he  instructed: 

Therefore  I  say  unto  you,  Take  no  thought 
for  your  life,  what  ye  shall  eat,  or  what 
ye  shall  drink;  nor  yet  for  your  body,  what 
ye  shall  put  on.3 

Brilliant  scholars — and  I  think  many 
of  them  faithful  men,  perhaps  believ- 
ing that  Christ  was  the  greatest  of  all 
teachers,  proclaiming  at  all  times  eternal 
truths — saw  in  the  Master's  foregoing 
statement  what  appeared  to  be  an  eco- 
nomic fallacy.  They  observed  that  if 
people  in  general  throughout  the  world 
took  no  heed  of  what  they  should  eat 
or  wear  or  drink,  they  would  soon  be 
hungry,  thirsty,  and  unclothed;  and  so 
those  scholars  wrote  numerous  explana- 

•Matthew  6:25. 


tions  in  their  efforts  to  interpret  what 
the  Master  may  have  meant. 

But  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  one  brief 
statement  gives,  I  believe,  more  clarifi- 
cation to  that  problem  than  is  found  in 
all  the  explanations  given  by  the  schol- 
ars. According  to  that  record,  Jesus 
appeared  to  the  Nephites  following  his 
resurrection  and  gave  a  sermon  similar 
to  the  one  known  in  the  New  Testament 
as  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  Jesus 
was  talking  to  the  multitude,  and  then 
the  Nephite  record  states: 

And  now  it  came  to  pass  that  when 
Jesus  had  spoken  these  words  he  looked 
upon  the  twelve  whom  he  had  chosen,  and 
said  unto  them:  .  .  .  Therefore  I  say  unto 
you,  take  no  thought  for  your  life,  what 
ye  shall  eat,  or  what  ye  shall  drink:  nor 
yet  for  your  body,  what  ye  shall  put  on.* 

Thus  by  turning  from  the  multitude 
and  giving  his  instruction  to  only  twelve 
men,  Jesus  reduced  the  problem  of  those 
who  would  be  provided  for  by  the  Lord 
to  only  twelve  servants  of  God.  Cer- 
tainly the  laborers  in  the  Lord's  vine- 
yard are  worthy  of  their  hire. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  contains  some 
of  the  most  marvelous  doctrinal  teach- 
ings found  in  any  scripture  or  in  any 
other  writings  in  the  world.  The  an- 
cient American  prophets  explained  the 
gospel  doctrines  as  clearly  and  as  beau- 
tifully as  any  prophets  have  ever  ex- 
plained the  gospel.  I  rejoice  in  the 
superb  vision  beheld  by  Nephi  in  which 
he  viewed  the  history  of  the  world  down 
to  the  present  time.  I  marvel  as  I  read 
the  teachings  of  King  Benjamin.  Per- 
haps no  other  teacher  except  the  Master 
has  given  a  more  beautiful,  humble  ser- 
mon. I  thrill  every  time  I  contemplate 
the  marvelous  teachings  of  Alma  and 
Amulek  on  death,  resurrection,  im- 
mortality, judgment  day,  and  the  atone- 
ment of  Jesus  Christ.  I  take  delight  in 
meditating  on  Mormon's  strong  de- 
nunciation of  the  doctrine  and  practice 
of  infant  baptism,  realizing  that  no- 
where is  this  doctrine  more  forcefully 
condemned.  And  of  course  the  greatest 
of  all  the  teachings  found  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon  are  those  found  in  the  Third 
Nephi.  Herein  is  recorded  the  marvelous 
and  beautiful  story  of  the  appearances 
of  the  resurrected  Lord  to  the  inhab- 

43  Nephi  13:25. 


66 

Saturday,  October  1 

itants  of  ancient  America,  proclaiming 
his  victory  over  death  and  offering 
eternal  life  unto  all  those  who  would 
accept  and  obey  his  gospel.  The  book 
delineates  in  an  astounding  manner  the 
Master  teaching  the  inhabitants  of  this 
land  the  same  gospel  plan  of  salvation 
which  he  had  taught  while  in  mor- 
tality among  the  Jews.  For  example, 
read  chapter  twenty-seven  of  Third 
Nephi.  Herein  Christ  gave  a  defini- 
tion of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which, 
I  think,  is  unsurpassed  anywhere  in  re- 
ligious literature. 

There  are  numerous  individual  state- 
ments on  various  subjects  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon  which  I  choose  to  call  dia- 
mond-like statements,  and  which  I 
think  are  unsurpassed  in  other  scrip- 
tures and  in  world  literature;  for  ex- 
ample, the  oft-repeated,  sincere,  simple, 
but  beautiful  expression  of  faith  given 
by  Nephi  is  superb.   To  quote: 

I  will  go  and  do  the  things  the  Lord 
hath  commandeth,  for  I  know  that  the 
Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto  the 
children  of  men,  save  he  prepare  a  way 
for  them  that  they  may  accomplish  the 
thing  which  he  commandeth  them.5 

I  believe  that  possibly  the  greatest 
statement  recorded  on  the  purpose  of 
man  or  purpose  of  life  was  given  in  two 
short  lines  by  father  Lehi  wherein  he 
said:  "Adam  fell  that  men  might  be; 
and  men  are,  that  they  might  have 
joy."6  It  is  my  conviction  that  the  joy 
of  which  Lehi  spoke  is  a  joy  that  would 
come  today  and  remain  tomorrow,  next 
week,  next  year,  a  hundred  years,  a 
thousand  years,  yes — joy  eternally.  A 
thorough  study  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  its  companion  scriptures  which  I 
hold  in  my  hand  assures  us  that  the 
only  way  to  attain  that  joy  is  to  render 
obedience  to  all  of  God's  command- 
ments continuously.  The  more  com- 
pletely our  lives  conform  to  the  teach- 
ings of  the  Master,  the  greater  shall  be 
our  joy. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the 
second  volume  of  these  latter-day  scrip- 
tures which  I  hold  in  my  hand,  is  filled 
with  revelation  from  heaven,  given 
primarily  through  the  instrumentality  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  for  the  salva- 

•I  Nephi  3:7. 
«2  Nephi  2:25. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

tion  of  all  the  members  of  the  human 
family  who  will  receive  and  obey.  These 
revelations  were  also  given  for  the  build- 
ing of  the  kingdom  of  God  or  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  here  upon 
the  earth  in  the  latter  days  prepara- 
tory for  the  coming  of  the  Savior  to 
usher  in  the  millennial  reign. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  my 
opinion,  like  the  Book  of  Mormon,  con- 
tains many  of  the  greatest  teachings 
found  in  any  book  in  the  world;  for 
example,  I  know  of  no  revelation  given 
through  the  holy  prophets  in  any  age 
of  world's  history  regarding  post-mortal 
life  and  the  final  status  of  the  human 
family  which  surpasses  section  seventy- 
six  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
known  as  the  vision,  or  the  three  de- 
grees of  glory.  This  stupendous  revela- 
tion was  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon.  They  were 
permitted  to  look  into  the  celestial  de- 
gree of  glory,  behold  conditions  there, 
and  record  what  they  saw  while  "yet  in 
the  Spirit."7  Then  they  were  shown  in 
vision  the  terrestrial  glory  and  likewise 
the  telestial  glory.  A  short  vision  of 
perdition  was  also  shown  unto  them. 
The  conditions  requisite  for  entrance 
into  any  of  these  worlds  were  made 
known  unto  them. 

In  addition  to  the  great  revelation  on 
the  three  degrees  of  glory,  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  contains  many  more 
revelations  regarding  post-mortal  life. 
For  example,  section  eighty-eight  ex- 
pands our  knowledge  of  the  three  de- 
grees of  glory.  Also,  there  is  a  marvel- 
ous statement  found  in  section  131.  To 
quote: 

In  the  celestial  glory  there  are  three 
heavens  or  degrees; 

And  in  order  to  obtain  the  highest,  a  man 
must  enter  into  this  order  of  the  priest- 
hood [meaning  the  new  and  everlasting 
covenant  of  marriage]; 

And  if  he  does  not,  he  cannot  obtain  it. 

He  may  enter  into  the  other,  but  that  is 
the  end  of  his  kingdom;  he  cannot  have  an 
increase.8 

One  of  the  greatest  revelations  in 
any  scripture  is  the  one  on  celestial  mar- 
riage, found  in  section  132  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  This  marvelous 
revelat'on  deals  with  the  crowning  prin- 

7D  &  C  7fi:R1.  113. 
"Ibid.,  131:1-4. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


67 


ciple  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  set- 
ting forth  the  condition  on  which  one 
may  gain  eternal  life  or  exaltation  in 
the  presence  of  God.  This  revelation 
informs  us  that  man  cannot  be  exalted 
without  woman,  nor  the  woman  with- 
out man.  It  makes  clear  the  doctrine 
that  those  who  prove  faithful  in  all 
things  which  the  Lord  hath  com- 
manded, go  to  the  house  of  the  Lord 
and  enter  into  the  covenant  of  marriage 
according  to  God's  plan,  and  continue 
faithful  all  the  days  of  their  lives,  shall 
rise  in  the  resurrection  and 

.  .  .  shall  pass  by  the  angels,  and  the  gods, 
which  are  set  there,  to  their  exaltation  and 
glory  in  all  things,  as  hath  been  sealed 
upon  their  heads,  which  glory  shall  be  a 
fulness  and  a  continuation  of  the  seeds 
forever  and  ever. 

Then  shall  they  be  gods,  .  .  .' 

Thus  section  132  gives  us  an  under- 
standing of  how  to  obtain  the  highest 
blessing  that  our  Eternal  Father  has  in 
store  for  those  who  love  him  and  keep 
his  commandments.  Furthermore,  the 
revelations  which  I  have  referred  to 
briefly  give  us  more  definite  informa- 
tion on  the  post-mortal  life  of  man  and 
the  ultimate  goals  to  be  attained  than 
can  be  found  in  any  other  scriptures  in 
the  world. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  like  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  also  contains  dia- 
mond-like statements  which  are  superb; 
for  example,  the  one  on  law  is  re- 
markable.  To  quote: 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in 
heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this  world, 
upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from 
God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon 
which  it  is  predicated.10 

Another  diamond-like  statement  is: 
"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  or,  in 
other  words,  light  and  truth."11 

In  addition  to  the  great  revelations 
referred  to,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
contains  the  wonderful  instructions 
known  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  several 
revelations  on  missionary  work,  in- 
struction on  priesthood,  and  numerous 
other  pertinent  revelations  which  I  can- 

Vbid.,  132:19-20. 
mbid.,  130:20-21. 
*lbid.,  93:36. 


not  name  in  the  short  time  allotted  to 
me. 

The  third  great  treasure  which  I  hold 
in  my  hand  is  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
a  pearl  indeed.  It  is  composed  of  two 
revelations  given  to  Moses  and  re- 
revealed  to  Joseph  Smith;  the  book  of 
Abraham,  written  by  the  great  patri- 
arch and  translated  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph;  the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of 
Matthew;  some  of  the  early  visions  be- 
held by  the  Prophet;  some  of  his  teach- 
ings; and  the  Articles  of  Faith.  They 
are  compacted  in  approximately  sixty 
pages,  but  every  page  is  dynamic  and 
powerful.    It  is  a  wonderful  book. 

The  Pearl  of  Great  Price  also  con- 
tains revelations  on  certain  subjects 
superior  to  any  other  scriptures  or  writ- 
ings on  those  subjects  found  in  the 
world;  for  example,  Abraham's  vision 
of  pre-mortal  life  in  which  he  learned 
of  the  eternal  nature  of  things;  of  the 
grand  council  in  heaven;  and  of  the 
plan  of  salvation  as  presented  there 
constitutes  one  of  the  greatest  of  God's 
revelations  to  his  holy  prophets.  And 
the  knowledge  obtained  by  Moses  in  his 
vision  of  Lucifer  and  the  part  he  played 
at  the  grand  council,  added  to  Abra- 
ham's vision,  gives  us  the  most  complete 
understanding  found  in  any  literature 
regarding  man's  pre-mortal  life  and 
God's  purposes  for  the  good  of  man. 

The  Pearl  of  Great  Price  also  helps 
to  clarify  some  of  the  difficult  passages 
in  the  other  scriptures;  for  example, 
when  Jesus  Christ  was  living  in  mor- 
tality, the  New  Testament  writers  re- 
port that  time  and  time  again  he  re- 
ferred to  himself  as  the  Son  of  Man. 
Many  modern  scholars  in  their  com- 
mentaries have  endeavored  to  explain 
what  the  Master  may  have  meant  by 
this  appellation.  These  scholars  have 
almost  universally  maintained  that 
Jesus  in  referring  to  himself  as  the  Son 
of  Man  meant  that  he  was  a  mortal 
man.  They  maintain  that  Christ  was 
making  no  claims  of  his  divinity  in 
referring  to  himself  as  Son  of  Man,  but 
that  he  was  merely  pointing  out  his 
mortality.  The  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
however,  clarifies  this  point  beauti- 
fully. Speaking  of  God  the  Eternal. 
Father,  this  record  tells  us  that 

...  in  the  language  of  Adam,  Man  of 
Holiness  is  his  name,  and  the  name  of  his 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  1 

Only  Begotten  is  the  Son  of  Man,  even 
Jesus  Christ,  a  righteous  Judge,  who  shall 
come  in  the  meridian  of  time.1* 

Thus  we  see  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
was  not  pointing  out  his  mortal  man- 
hood but  that  he  was  declaring  his 
divinity,  his  Godhood,  his  Messiah- 
ship,  his  powers  as  a  Savior,  his  posi- 
tion as  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father, 
each  time  that  he  called  himself  the 
Son  of  Man.  He  was  referring  to  him- 
self as  the  "Son  of  the  Man  of  Holi- 
ness," even  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of 
the  Eternal  Father. 

The  Pearl  of  Great  Price  also  con- 
tains some  diamond-like  statements,  as 
do  the  other  latter-day  scriptures.  As 
an  example,  I  shall  quote:  "For  behold, 
this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring 
to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life 
of  man."13 

Never  in  my  life  have  I  read  in  any 
scripture  or  in  any  other  writing  a 
statement  which  defines  the  work  of 
God  (meaning  the  Father  and  the  Son) 
more  completely,  more  thoroughly,  and 
more  accurately,  in  one  short  statement, 
than  does  that  one.  Jesus  Christ  came 
into  the  world,  being  sent  here  by  the 
Father  to  die,  to  be  resurrected,  and  to 
break  the  bands  of  death.  He  did  rise 
from  the  grave,  and  he  did  put  into 
operation,  so  to  speak,  a  universal  law 
of  resurrection  so  that  every  man, 
woman,  and  child  who  ever  lives  upon 
this  earth  will  rise  from  the  grave  and 
thereby  receive  immortality.  The 
wicked  as  well  as  the  righteous  shall 
be  resurrected  and,  through  the  grace  of 
Christ  and  by  the  authorization  of  the 
Father,  receive  immortality.  Thus  God's 
work  is  to  give  immortality  to  the  hu- 
man family. 

Shortly  after  Adam  and  Eve  were  cast 
from  the  Garden  of  Eden,  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  began  his  work 
to  give  man  eternal  life  by  revealing  the 
gospel  plan  of  salvation  to  Father  Adam. 
In  the  Meridian  of  Time  Christ  came 
to  the  world  to  show  us  how  to  live. 
The  revelation  of  the  gospel  has  con- 
tinued to  come  from  heaven  throughout 
the  various  gospel  dispensations  and 
climaxed  in  our  dispensation,  coming  to 


^Moses  6:57. 
™lbid.,  1:39. 


Second  Day 

the  world  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  in  the  Dispensation  of  the  Ful- 
ness of  Times.  All  the  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  God  who  live  fully  in  accord- 
ance with  this  gospel  plan  will  receive 
eternal  life,  thereby  helping  to  complete 
the  work  and  the  glory  of  God. 

In  conclusion,  I  desire  to  speak  briefly 
to  the  members  of  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  If  we  as  members  will  give 
heed  to  the  teachings  of  the  Savior, 
rendering  obedience  to  all  of  his  com- 
mandments, if  we  will  walk  along  the 
path  which  these  latter-day  scriptures 
point  out,  all  of  the  blessings  promised 
in  these  scriptures  will  be  ours.  Some 
day  we  shall  come  back  into  the  pres- 
ence of  the  Father  and  the  Son  and 
receive  eternal  life. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  have  merely 
given  a  brief  analysis  of  these  three 
great  treasures.  Let  me  admonish  that 
we  all  study  the  scriptures — that  we 
study  them  day  and  night,  and  that  we 
keep  their  teachings  in  our  minds  con- 
tinuously. The  Savior  said:  "Search 
the  scriptures;  for  in  them  ye  think  ye 
have  eternal  life:  and  they  are  they 
which  testify  of  me."14 

The  holy  scriptures  have  been  my 
closest  companion  throughout  my  life. 
I  love  them  and  read  them  continually. 
I  think  I  have  gone  through  the  Book 
of  Mormon  forty-five  times.  Every  time 
I  read  it  I  find  new  thoughts.  I  be- 
lieve with  all  my  heart,  as  I  said  in  the 
beginning  of  my  talk,  that  these  three 
latter-day  scriptures,  together  with  the 
Bible,  constitute  some  of  the  greatest 
treasures  that  we  possess.  If  we  will 
permit  them  to  do  so,  they  will  serve  as 
our  guides  to  bring  us  back  unto  God. 
May  our  Heavenly  Father  bless  us  that 
we  may  fully  utilize  effectively  in  our 
lives  these  great  treasures,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  The  Choir  and  congregation 
will  now  sing,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High." 

"John  5:39. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


69 


After  the  singing  Bishop  Carl  W.  Bueh- 
ner  will  speak  to  us. 

The  congregation  and  the  Chorus 
sang  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  will  now  speak  to  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Spencer 
W.  Kimball. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


■  y  dear  brethren  and  sisters: 
I  think  if  I  were  perfectly 
honest  with  you  at  this 
moment,  I  would  tell  you 
that  I  appreciate  shaking 
before  you  the  next  few 
minutes. 

This  has  been  a  marvelous  conference. 
I  expected  it  to  be  so,  knowing  of  some 
of  the  great  events  that  have  happened 
in  the  Church  during  this  past  year.  I 
am  sure  it  has  been  one  of  the  greatest 
years  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 
When  I  think  of  temple  work  and  tem- 
ple building  alone — one  temple  dedi- 
cated, one  ready  for  dedication,  ground 
broken  for  a  third,  a  fourth  one  ready 
for  construction  immediately,  and  land 
purchased  for  a  fifth,  all  in  one  year — 
it  is  a  great  day  in  the  history  of  the 
Church. 

We  have  heard  marvelous  reports  of 
what  has  happened  in  other  parts  of 
the  Church,  the  creation  of  new  mis- 
sions, and  the  growth  of  the  Church. 
I  was  very  impressed  yesterday  morning 
when  President  McKay  announced  how 
many  new  members  had  come  into  the 
Church  in  the  past  year,  I  suppose  more 
than  in  any  other  one  year  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  Church.  I  have  been  in- 
terested in  how  some  of  these  new  con- 
verts have  joined  the  Church  and  the 
reasons  for  their  joining  the  Church.  I 
thought  today  I  would  like  to  say  just 
a  few  words  about  some  of  them. 

I  remember  a  mother  standing  up  in 
a  conference  in  the  southern  part  of 
Utah,  giving  credit  for  her  membership 
in  the  Church  to  a  four-year-old  daugh- 
ter. She  said,  "My  husband  and  I  and 
our  three  children  moved  into  this  com- 
munity a  few  months  ago,  and  shortly 
after  we  became  established,  we  decided 
that  our  children  should  have  some 
religious  affiliation.  I  do  not  know  why 
I  did  not  think  the  parents  should,  but 


at  least  we  thought  the  children  ought 
to  have  some.  So  we  suggested  to  the 
children  that  they  go  to  Church  with 
other  children  living  in  the  community. 
A  few  weeks  later  my  little  daughter, 
four  years  old,  came  home  to  me  after 
Sunday  School  one  morning,  and  said, 
'Mother,  how  is  it  that  everyone  else's 
mother  goes  to  Sunday  School  with 
them,  but  you  don't  go  to  Sunday  School 
with  me?' "  And  the  mother  said,  "You 
might  as  well  have  stabbed  me  in  the 
back  with  a  dagger,  it  cut  that  deep.  I 
decided  I  wasn't  going  to  have  my  little 
daughter  accuse  me  of  being  the  only 
mother  not  attending  Sunday  School 
with  her  daughter,  so  I  began  going." 
Then  she  said,  "I  met  some  of  the  most 
wonderful  people  that  I  have  ever 
learned  to  know  in  my  life,  and  I  heard 
things  in  Sunday  School  that  were  new 
and  impressive  to  me,  and  it  wasn't 
very  long  after  that,  that  I  became  a 
member  of  this  Church." 

I  have  heard  some  who  have  had  some 
unusual  experiences  in  becoming  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  through  the  build- 
ing program.  I  was  down  in  a  stake 
in  California  a  while  ago.  We  had  a 
little  time  to  visit,  and  the  stake  presi- 
dent took  me  to  a  new  branch  that  was 
under  construction.  While  we  were 
riding  to  the  new  building,  he  said, 
"You  know,  this  has  been  a  very  un- 
usual project.  The  Church  has  furnished 
the  material,  and  the  branch  has  done 
all  of  the  work.  They  have  a  man 
here  who  is  a  non-member  of  the 
Church  who  has  contributed  free  all  of 
the  plumbing  labor  for  this  building, 
and  a  senior  member  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  who  has  done  all  of  the 
electrical  work  in  the  building." 

As  we  approached  the  building,  I 
noticed  the  roof  was  on,  and  the  outside 
was  stuccoed.  We  went  around  to  the 
front.    There  we  saw  a  plaster  mixer 


70 

Saturday,  October  1 

running,  and  a  woman  shoveling  sand 
and  hard-wall  into  the  mixer.  That 
seemed  a  little  unusual  to  me.  We 
walked  into  the  building,  and  I  was 
made  acquainted  with  the  branch  presi- 
dent. I  said  to  him,  "Say,  I  am  a  little 
worried  about  a  woman  outside,  shovel- 
ing sand  and  hard-wall  into  a  mixer." 
He  said,  "You  better  be  careful  what 
you  say;  that  is  my  wife.  She  is  a  part 
of  my  firm.  She  is  the  best  hod  carrier 
we  have  here  in  Yucaipa."  Just  at  that 
time  she  came  into  the  front  door  with 
a  large  wheelbarrow  full  of  plaster  and 
loaded  up  her  husband's  mortar  board 
until  he  could  not  talk  to  us  any  longer. 
He  had  to  get  it  on  the  wall.  I  feel 
certain  that  the  man  who  did  the 
plumbing  in  that  building  has  plumbed 
himself  right  into  the  Church.  I  am 
quite  sure  he  has. 

I  have  heard  of  others  who  have 
painted  their  way  into  the  Church.  Not 
long  ago  I  heard  of  a  man  who  had 
some  good  Mormon  neighbors  who  were 
building  a  chapel.  He  was  a  painter. 
He  was  invited  to  assist  in  painting 
the  chapel,  and  he  not  only  made  a 
fine  contribution  painting,  but  he 
painted  himself  right  into  the  Church. 

I  heard  of  a  man  down  in  Las  Vegas, 
just  a  month  or  so  ago,  that  plastered 
himself  into  the  Church.  So  you  see, 
you  can  become  interested  in  the 
Church  in  many  different  ways. 

I  think  we  are  losing  some  opportuni- 
ties if  we  do  not  invite  our  neighbors 
who  are  not  members  of  the  Church  to 
help  us  in  the  erection  of  our  wonderful 
buildings.  The  plasterer  was  thrilled 
as  he  told  me  of  his  profession.  He 
was  invited  to  come  over  and  help. 
He  met  the  finest  men  he  has  known 
working  on  that  building.  Through 
this  contact,  he  became  a  member  of 
the  Church. 

The  most  recent  I  have  heard  is  about 
a  minister  of  a  church,  who,  I  think,  is 
going  to  preach  himself  in.  The  chorus 
we  heard  this  morning  is  bound  to  sing 
people  into  the  Church.  Through  our 
living  the  gospel,  we  can  melt  people 
into  the  Church.  But  here  is  a  man 
who  is  going  to  preach  himself  in  and 
may  bring  with  him  a  number  of  his 
own  congregation.  I  would  like  to  read 
a  little  from  a  talk  he  delivered.  It  is 
a  good  Mormon  sermon  delivered  by 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

the  Reverend  Frank  S.  Morley  of  the 
Grace  Presbyterian  Church  of  Calgary, 
Alberta,  Canada.  His  subject  was, 
"What  we  can  learn  from  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 
This  is  what  he  said: 

"About  all  I  knew  of  the  Mor- 
mons until  comparatively  recently  was 
what  I  had  read  in  Zane  Grey.  I  re- 
membered an  adverse  picture  built 
around  one  of  Zane  Grey's  novels  that 
I  had  read  when  I  was  a  boy,  that  I 
had  seen  as  a  boy.  That  sort  of  im- 
pression remained  with  me  unhappily 
until  comparatively  recently  when  I 
came  to  know  a  good  many  of  that 
Church  more  intimately,  and  I  began 
to  find  out  a  bit  more  about  that 
Church.  Especially  did  I  find  it  out 
when  two  young  men  came  to  call  on 
me  not  long  after  I  had  been  in  Cal- 
gary. They  came  from  afar  down  in  the 
United  States.  They  came  just  to  talk 
over  their  faith  with  me.  I  thought 
that  was  very  wonderful  of  these  two 
young  men.  It  took  some  courage — at 
least  I  would  have  thought  it  took  some 
courage  to  come  up  and  face  a  rather 
formidable  Presbyterian  minister,  and 
they  walked  in  and  talked — just  young 
fellows  who  had  just  started  to  shave, 
I  think — and  began  to  talk  about  their 
faith.  I  asked  them  how  they  were 
managing  to  make  a  living  because  they 
said  they  paid  their  own  expenses,  and 
one  boy  told  me  had  had  just  written 
home  and  told  his  father  to  sell  a  cow 
he  owned  and  to  send  up  the  money. 
They  dedicate  two  years  to  such  work 
and  pay  their  own  expenses.  After  that, 
another  couple  of  young  men  came  up 
to  see  me  and  also  talked  about  their 
faith  and  answered  some  more  of  my 
questions. 

"At  the  [Utah]  centennial  celebration 
in  1947,  the  Mormon  Church  said  they 
had  sent  out  51,612  missionaries  in  that 
one  hundred  years — going  out  for  two- 
year  terms  and  paying  their  own  ex- 
penses! They  had  in  1949,  8,695  at 
work  in  thirty-eight  countries.  But  since 
then  they  are  sending  out  something 
like  four  thousand  annually,  so  I  guess 
they  have  more  missionaries  at  work  in 
the  world  now.  An  amazing  missionary 
work  for  a  Church  that  is  compara- 
tively small  and  comparatively  new. 

"Now  what  are  the  things  that  I  like 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


71 


about  this  Church?  First,  their  clear- 
cut  statement  of  faith.  For  example, 
their  first  statement  is  that  they  believe 
in  God,  in  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the 
Holy  Spirit.  It  had  been  said  to  me 
that  Mormons  do  not  believe  in  Jesus 
Christ!  Such  superstitions  and  misun- 
derstandings we  have  regarding  them 
need  clearing  up.  They  believe  in 
things  that  we  would  find  a  little  pe- 
culiar, perhaps,  like  eternal  progression, 
revelation  taking  place  today — prophetic 
revelation — and  eternal  marriage.  They 
don't  believe  that  death  makes  any  di- 
vorce.  But  is  this  faith  bad? 

"The  second  thing  I  like  about  them 
is  that  their  religion  enters  into  their 
life  immediately.  Idleness,  laziness,  liv- 
ing off  the  government — these  things  to 
them  are  evil.  They  believe  that  one 
should  work  and  should  not  be  sup- 
ported by  the  government. 

"Third,  is  that  it  is  a  family-centered 
religion.  This  family-centered  religion 
begins  with  family  prayers  in  the  morn- 
ing and  family  prayers  at  night,  and 
no  food  is  eaten  until  it  is  blessed.  The 
entire  family  goes  to  Church,  led  by 
the  father  and  the  mother.  There  is  a 
home  evening  each  week.  Isn't  that  a 
wonderful  thing?  One  evening  in  the 
week  everybody  is  home  in  the  Mor- 
mon family,  and  they  again  have  fam- 
ily life. 

"In  order  to  hold  office  in  the  Mor- 
mon Church,  you  have  to  follow  the 
Book  of  Wisdom  strictly — no  tea,  no 
coffee,  no  liquor,  and  no  tobacco  (which 
will  immediately  rule  out  a  good  many 
of  us).  You  have  to  be  morally  clean, 
you  have  to  pay  a  tithe,  and  you  have 
to  be  an  active  worker  in  the  Church. 
Now  I  don't  know  whether  it's  because 
of  this  way  of  life  to  which  their  re- 
ligion is  related  so  intimately  or  not, 
but  they  are  perhaps  the  healthiest  peo- 
ple in  the  world.  During  the  war,  in 
Utah  you  found  more  men  acceptable 
for  the  services  than  any  other  state  in 
the  United  States. 

"The  death  rate  in  the  United  States 
is  10  per  1000,  but  among  the  Mormons 
it  is  under  6  per  1000.  The  births  per 
1000  in  the  United  States  are  24  but 
among  the  Mormons  38.  In  the  lead- 
ing 22  civilized  nations  of  the  world, 
the  average  number  of  children  born 
out  of  wedlock  are  74  per  1000.  In 


the  United  States  40  per  1000  are  bom 
out  of  wedlock,  but  in  Utah  only  10, 
and  in  Idaho  (which  is  next  in  propor- 
tion being  a  Mormon  state)  11.  An 
amazing  contrast!  They  have  a  very 
low  divorce  rate  also. 

"Another  thing  I  like  in  the  Church 
is  its  fellowship,  especially  among  young 
people.  They  keep  their  young  people 
around  the  Church.  And  another  thing, 
and  it  may  result  from  this  fellowship, 
they  believe  in  early  marriage.  That's 
a  good  idea.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  they 
prepare  their  young  people  for  mar- 
riage. It  would  be  a  fine  thing  if  our 
young  people  were  prepared  more  for 
marriage.  The  protestant  church  has 
a  most  inadequate  preparation  of  young 
people  for  marriage. 

"Another  thing  I  like  about  their 
Church  is  their  devotion.  Take  the 
stake  president  for  example.  A  stake  is 
a  certain  area  that  goes  a  long  way 
outside  of  Calgary — takes  in  a  vast  area. 
The  stake  president  is  unpaid.  The 
man  that  holds  that  position  is  a  most 
prominent  citizen — one  of  our  busiest — 
and  yet  that  stake  president  gives  this 
sort  of  time  to  his  Church:  He  gives  one 
night  a  month  for  faculty  meeting  of 
the  stake  officers.  He  gives  one  night 
a  week  for  a  stake  presidency  meeting. 
He  gives  two  Sundays  a  month  to  visit 
the  wards.  He  gives  one  full  afternoon 
one  Saturday  a  month.  He  attends  two 
general  conferences  a  year  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  they  last  for  three  days  each. 
He  has  four  stake  conferences  a  year 
where  he  gives  one  and  one-half  days 
each,  and  one  day  a  month  he  gives  to 
the  temple.  Now  just  think  of  that 
sort  of  time!  Just  think  of  it!  I  can't; 
it  appalls  me.  [And  here  I  would  like 
to  say,  I  am  glad  he  does  not  know  how 
much  more  time  a  stake  president  or 
a  bishop  puts  in  for  the  Church  or  he 
might  faint.]  That  amazing  sort  of 
time!  We  have  nothing  like  it!  In  our 
church  there's  nothing  at  all  resembling 
that  sort  of  sacrifice  of  time,  and  I  know 
my  church  from  coast  to  coast. 

"I  think  also  of  their  generosity  not 
only  in  the  matter  of  time,  but  with 
their  tithes.  They  pay  one-tenth.  On 
the  first  Sunday  of  each  month  they 
have  a  fast  offering.  They  go  without 
two  meals  on  that  Sunday  and  give  the 
money  to  the  poor.    President  Hoover 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


72 

Saturday,  October  1 

said  that  if  all  churches  were  to  prac- 
tise help  to  the  poor  as  the  Mormon 
Church  does,  there  would  not  have  to 
be  any  state  support  whatever.  They 
take  care  of  their  members,  and  that's 
another  thing  I  like  about  their  Church. 
Their  wards  are  divided  into  what  they 
call  'blocks,'  which  merely  means  a 
section  of  the  city,  and  in  that  section 
there  will  be  from  3  to  8  families  who 
are  Mormons,  and  they  will  be  visited 
by  two  teachers.  Every  month  they  will 
be  visited  by  two  teachers.  [And  I 
wish  that  were  right,  too.]  They  may 
be  missed  this  month  for  some  reason, 
they  may  be  in  California  or  away 
when  called  upon,  but  they  will  be 
visited  next  month.  Every  family  in  the 
Mormon  Church  is  visited  by  these 
teachers  from  6  to  12  times  every  year. 
Last  month  they  aimed  at  100  percent 
visitation,  and  they  failed.  They  didn't 
get  100  percent.  They  only  got  95  per- 
cent. [And  if  the  rest  of  you  do  that 
well,  then  you  will  hear  no  more  com- 
plaints from  the  ward  teaching  com- 
mittee.] Some  folk  were  away  when 
they  were  called  on.  Normally  their 
program  is  about  80  percent  efficient  in 
their  calling.  These  teachers  do  three 
things.  They  carry,  first,  a  message  for 
the  month.  Secondly,  they  go  to  help, 
if  any  is  needed,  and  then  they  encour- 
age activity  in  Church  life. 

"What  message  does  this  hold  for 
us?  First  of  all,  this  Church  is  com- 
posed of  laymen.  There  is  no  one  in 
the  Calgary  Stake  who  is  paid  at  all. 
Isn't  that  astounding?  It's  a  layman's 
church.  Just  think  of  the  work  these 
laymen  do.  Our  protestant  church  is 
built  upon  laymen.  Our  Presbyterian 
Church  is  built  upon  laymen.  Unless 
we  can  revive  the  laymen  of  the  Presby- 
terian Church,  I  don't  believe  it  has 
any  great  future.  All  of  the  work  except 
some  inconsequential  things  are  turned 
back  upon  the  minister  of  the  Church. 
Unless  we  can  get  the  laymen  of  our 
church  to  teach,  I  tell  you  our  church 
will  be  a  dwindling  church. 

"The  teaching  we  get  from  this  Mor- 
mon Church  is  this — that  religion  is 
not  to  be  taken  easily.  A  religion  that 
imposes  no  obligation  is  no  religion." 

He  said  many  other  wonderful  things. 
I  have  the  complete  sermon  over  in  my 


Second  Day 

office,  if  some  of  you  would  like  to  get 
the  rest.  I  cannot  help  feeling  that  this 
man  is  on  his  way  to  preaching  himself 
into  our  Church.  And  if  he  talks  to 
the  same  audience  another  time  or  two, 
he  is  going  to  bring  some  of  them  with 
him. 

I  am  interested  in  the  new  converts 
to  the  Church.  I  am  grateful  to  see 
them  coming  from  all  walks  of  life  and 
through  all  the  different  channels  we 
have  in  the  Chuch.  I  would  like  to  say 
to  those  listening  to  me  today  who  are 
not  members  of  the  Church:  Investigate 
the  Church;  listen  to  the  missionaries; 
work  your  way  into  the  Church  on  a 
building  project;  catch  the  spirit  through 
the  singing  of  these  choruses  or  through 
any  other  avenue  that  will  impress  you 
with  the  most  important  thing  that  can 
come  into  your  life — a  testimony  of  the 
gospel.  And  then  for  some  of  you  that 
are  not  as  active  as  you  should  be,  I 
would  like  to  say  to  you:  Become  more 
active,  enjoy  the  great  blessings  that 
our  Father  in  heaven  has  in  store  for 
the  faithful  of  this  great  Church  and 
kingdom  of  his,  established  for  the  last 
time  upon  the  earth. 

I  would  like  to  close  by  adding  my 
testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives, 
and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  the 
Savior  of  the  world,  and  that  the  gospel 
has  been  restored  in  this  Dispensation 
of  the  Fulness  of  Times  through  his 
servant,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

One  other  thought  I  would  like  to 
leave  is  this:  "It  is  recommended  that 
we  take  an  interest  in  the  future  .  .  . 
that's  where  we'll  spend  the  rest  of  our 
life." 

This  may  be  a  good  thought  to  close 
on.  May  the  Lord  bless  each  and  every 
one  of  us,  I  pray,  humbly,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  We  shall  now  hear  Elder 
Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  who,  six  months  ago, 
was  appointed  to  visit  the  European 
Missions. 


73 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


IWIII11WIBMY     BROTHERS    AND  SISTERS: 

••'J  Never  before  has  the  word 
i  v        home  meant  so  much  to 

I  \  )  *a  me  as  it  did  this  week 
■*■:  when  I  came  with  others 
into  New  York  harbor, 
saw  Old  Glory  and  the  Statue  of 
Liberty,  and  as  I  flew  west  and  saw  the 
dry  plains,  and  the  high  mountains  of 
the  Uintahs,  and  the  frost-colored 
Wasatch  Mountains,  and  then  landed 
at  the  airport  here  in  Salt  Lake  City 
and  to  be  met  by  my  family  and  my 
brethren. 

When  we  landed  in  Hannover,  Ger- 
many, many  weeks  ago,  Sister  Gregory 
said  to  me,  as  we  drove  away  from  the 
airport,  "Now,  Brother  Kimball,  you 
have  been  all  over  Europe.  What  did 
you  see  that  was  the  most  interesting?" 
I  do  not  know  what  she  had  in  her 
mind,  but  I  am  sure  there  would  be 
many  who  would  be  thinking  of  statues 
and  monuments,  cathedrals  and  muse- 
ums, rivers  and  glaciers.  It  did  not 
take  me  long  to  give  her  the  answer: 
"The  most  interesting  thing  I  saw  was 
the  people." 

In  1937,  Sister  Kimball  and  I  went 
to  Europe  as  tourists.  We  took  with 
us  a  camera  and  much  film.  We  saw 
all  of  the  strange,  funny  things  in  Eu- 
rope. We  went  through  many  of  the 
museums,  and  I  think  most  of  the 
cathedrals.  We  saw  the  monuments 
and  much  that  was  of  interest.  We  saw 
bicycles  by  the  millions,  we  saw  women 
working  in  the  fields,  and  we  laughed 
as  we  wrote  in  our  journals  about  the 
odd,  unusual  things. 

In  1955  we  went  to  Europe  without  a 
camera — the  only  persons  in  Europe,  I 
think,  who  did  not  have  a  camera.  We 
saw  the  bicycles  as  means  to  an  end, 
to  take  people  to  their  work  and  to  bring 
people  to  Church  services.  We  saw 
women  not  only  working  in  the  fields, 
digging  potatoes  and  planting  crops,  but 
we  saw  them  also  in  their  homes  and 
in  the  Church  work.  We  saw  into  their 
hearts;  we  heard  their  testimonies;  we 
felt  their  love. 

I  was  grateful  for  this  privilege  that 
came  to  us,  to  meet  the  people  and  to 


see  what  the  gospel  does  for  them 
when  it  enters  their  lives.  We  realized 
before  that  there  were  Norwegians  and 
Finns  and  Germans  and  French,  but 
when  the  gospel  comes,  they  all  melt 
into  one  composite  figure. 

We  bring  to  you  the  greetings  of  your 
missionaries  who  are  in  the  European 
countries,  a  thousand  of  them.  We 
heard  a  thousand  testimonies,  sweet, 
resonant,  glorious  testimonies  from 
hearts  filled  with  faith  and  sacrifice.  I 
looked  into  their  hearts,  and  I  found 
them  good.  They  love  you  folk  at  home 
more  than  they  have  ever  told  you.  One 
young  man  said,  "Oh,  I  hope  my  sick 
father  will  live  until  I  return  so  that 
I  can  tell  him  what  I  really  think  of 
him — how  much  I  appreciate  him." 

I  learned  from  these  testimonies,  of 
hundreds  of  people  who  have  become 
active  in  the  Church  through  their 
missionary  sons  and  daughters,  some 
who  have  joined  the  Church,  even 
fathers  and  mothers.  One  example: 
A  mother  dissuaded  her  eldest  son 
from  going  into  the  mission  field.  She 
and  his  father  were  not  members  of  the 
Church.  They  said,  "You  are  wasting 
your  time.  Go  to  college  instead;  do 
something  that  is  worth  while.  Do  not 
go  on  a  mission."  They  used  all  of  their 
persuasive  powers,  but  finally,  when 
they  realized  that  he  was  positively  go- 
ing, they  said,  "All  right,  go  ahead." 
Two  weeks  before  the  boy  sailed  from 
New  York,  his  mother  approached  him 
one  morning  and  said,  "Son,  today  I  am 
being  baptized." 

Another  boy  said,  "My  mother  works 
fourteen  hours  every  day  to  sustain  me 
on  my  mission."  Another  boy  said, 
"I  am  on  my  mission  because  of  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord.  My  highschool 
graduate  brother  could  not  go  to  col- 
lege if  I  went  on  my  mission,  but  my 
mother  said,  'You  are  going  on  your 
mission.'  And  as  I  was  about  ready  to 
leave,  we  had  word  that  my  younger 
brother  had  received  a  scholarship  to 
the  university,  and  good  neighbors 
brought  in  a  hundred  dollar  bill  to  put 
into  my  hand,  and  I  am  still  in  the 


74 

Saturday,  October  1 

mission  field  and  nearly  ready  to  go 
home." 

I  shall  never  forget  a  certain  testi- 
mony meeting.  A  young  man  who  was 
still  quite  emotional  after  the  upset  of 
the  week  said  to  us:  "I  just  got  a  cable- 
gram last  week  telling  of  the  death  of 
my  father."  He  continued:  "I  tele- 
phoned across  a  continent  and  across 
an  ocean,  and  I  heard  my  mother's 
voice  on  the  wire,  the  sweet  voice  of  my 
newly  widowed  mother."  He  said,  "I 
am  the  youngest  of  her  eight  children, 
and  I  said  to  her,  'Mom,  how  are  you?' 
and  she  said,  'I  am  all  right,  son;  I 
want  you  to  stay  and  fill  your  mission. 
The  Lord  will  take  care  of  us.' " 

That  kind  of  faith  in  parents,  that 
kind  of  faith  in  sons  and  daughters, 
brings  rich  dividends. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  your  serv- 
icemen, men  in  the  military.  Your 
boys,  some  of  whom  have  their  families 
with  them,  love  the  gospel  with  all  their 
souls  and  show  that  love  by  their  ac- 
tions. We  met  eight  hundred  of  them 
down  in  the  Bavarian  Alps  at  Berchtes- 
gaden,  underneath  Hitler's  famous 
Eagle's  Nest  which  stands  high  on  the 
Alpine  mountain  above.  The  hotels 
were  evacuated  and  turned  over  to  this 
great  concourse  of  men  and  their  fami- 
lies. 

I  remember  just  as  the  four-day  pro- 
gram was  ending  how  the  servicemen 
with  their  families  were  moving  out  of 
the  hotel.  There  had  been  no  smoke, 
no  rowdiness,  but  as  they  moved  out, 
there  came  in  a  woman's  club,  women 
with  their  cigarets,  fouling  the  air  in 
the  hotel  lobbies  which  had  been  so 
clean  and  sweet  for  four  days,  some- 
thing those  hotels,  perhaps,  had  never 
seen  before. 

I  remember  well  the  banquet  which 
we  held  down  on  Chiemsee  Lake,  in 
another  building  built  by  Hitler  and 
his  associates,  but  which  now  is  used 
by  the  United  States  Army  and  which 
they  turned  over  to  our  boys  for  the 
retreat  program.  I  remember  this  long 
hall,  surely  as  long  as  this  tabernacle, 
with  650  people  sitting  around  the 
tables — mostly  our  own  people,  but  a 
few  other  chaplains  and  special  guests. 
There  were  650  glasses  of  milk  sitting 
on  those  tables,  and  not  one  glass  or 
cup  of  anything  else.    I  think  that  Eu- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

rope  has  never  seen  anything  like  that 
before. 

I  remember  these  servicemen  as  I 
saw  them  assisting  elderly  women, 
Austrians  and  French  and  Germans,  up 
the  two  or  three  or  four  flights  of  stairs 
to  the  branch  houses. 

I  think  of  these  young  men  and  their 
financing  chapels  which  they  would 
never  inhabit.  Down  in  Heidelberg 
they  were  raising  the  money  to  build  a 
chapel  which  would  be  used  by  the 
local  Saints  and  which  they  them- 
selves would  never  occupy.  Again  at 
Salzburg,  Austria,  thousands  of  dollars 
were  raised  by  them  to  match  that 
which  was  so  generously  given  by  the 
Church,  and  another  beautiful  structure 
is  being  erected  there.  Tall,  clean 
handsome,  stalwart  young  men,  in  Eng- 
land, France,  Germany,  Austria,  even  in 
Austria  where  they  are  now  watching 
with  great  interest  the  packing  of  the 
suitcases  and  trunks  by  the  eastern 
neighbors. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  mem- 
bers, 36,000  of  them  over  there,  about 
half  of  whom  we  saw  and  to  whom 
we  bore  witness,  and  many  of  whose 
testimonies  we  heard.  We  saw  them  in 
all  these  many  countries.  In  Norway 
from  Oslo  north,  through  all  the  prin- 
cipal cities.  At  Trondheim  our  hearts 
beat  a  little  faster  as  we  realized  that 
that  was  Brother  Widtsoe's  home,  and 
we  flew  over  the  little  island  where  he 
was  born,  and  we  knew  how  happy  he 
would  be  to  see  the  chapel  which  is 
now  being  erected  in  his  home  town. 
Here  in  Norway  we  found  happy  peo- 
ple, handsome  and  healthy,  too  proud 
to  be  petty.  We  flew  low  over  the 
fjords  in  seaplanes.  We  could  see  all 
the  little  fishing  villages  and  the  beauty 
of  the  fjords  and  the  mountains. 

We  came  to  Boda,  up  in  the  north 
part,  way  up  in  the  Arctic  Circle,  and 
there  we  saw  a  sign  which  said,  "twenty- 
two  hours  to  Los  Angeles"  over  the 
North  Pole.  In  fact,  we  went  so  far 
north  that  we  could  almost  smell  the 
sulphur  in  the  Southern  California 
smog. 

In  Narvik  the  lights  went  out  at  10:30 
every  night,  according  to  city  ordinance. 
After  our  meetings  we  sat  eating 
some  refreshments  furnished  by  kind 
friends,  and  the  lights  went  out,  but 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


75 


we  hardly  knew  it.  We  went  right  on 
eating  and  finished  our  evening  and 
then  went  home,  and  at  two  o'clock  that 
morning,  as  we  prepared  to  go  into 
Sweden,  I  read  the  newspaper  out- 
doors and  then  again  in  the  room,  with- 
out any  lights.  We  were  far  up  in 
the  north  country. 

We  crossed  over  the  Swedish  border 
and  the  fjords  and  the  thick  ice,  and  the 
deep  snow.  We  saw  the  Laplanders  and 
the  reindeer;  we  saw  nearly  everybody 
but  Santa  Claus  there  in  the  north 
country. 

We  found  the  Swedes  were  solid,  re- 
liable, wonderful  people,  and  we  trav- 
eled three  weeks  down  through  Sweden, 
to  all  the  principal  cities,  dedicated 
eight  chapels  in  that  area  and  came  to 
the  beautiful  green  carpet  of  the  level 
country  of  the  south  where  they  have 
more  windmills,  they  say,  than  are 
found  in  Holland. 

Finland  was  a  place  which  brought 
us  a  great  joy,  and  we  found  youth 
gathered  together  there,  Finnish  youth, 
strong  and  resolute.  Finland  has  been 
the  football  of  neighbor  nations  through 
the  centuries — Finland,  little  Finland, 
the  honest  little  country  that  pays  its 
debts,  Finland  that  has  just  paid  its  war 
assessment,  not  debt,  and  has  just  com- 
pleted paying  the  levy  which  was  as- 
sessed by  its  eastern  neighbors.  They 
never  call  them  by  their  names;  they 
always  call  them  the  neighbors.  Little 
Finland  is  on  a  granite  peninsula  which 
the  glaciers  cleaned  of  its  soil  and  left 
hard  and  difficult,  but  these  people, 
solid  and  determined,  are  like  the  gran- 
ite on  which  they  builded  their  houses, 
and  they  carry  on.  We  found  the  peo- 
ple, and  especially  the  members  of  the 
Church  there,  400  and  some  odd  in 
number,  growing  and  faithful,  devoted 
missionaries  among  them. 

Denmark  has  its  level  country,  so 
level  in  fact  that  you  sometimes  won- 
der if  you  are  seeing  a  great  ocean 
liner  crossing  the  land.  It  does  not 
seem  that  there  is  water  beyond.  They 
are  a  happy,  independent  people. 

We  went  to  Britain,  over  to  Britain 
where  four  societies  are  rolled  all  into 
one — four  societies  that  have  been 
likened  by  one  writer  to  a  horse,  a  bull, 
a  mule,  and  a  deer:  the  Scotsmen  with 
their    thrift    and    their  conscientious 


loveableness;  the  Welsh  people  with 
their  shrewd,  intense,  patriotic  devo- 
tions; the  Irish,  with  their  whimsical, 
mystical,  delightful  personalities;  and 
then  the  English  with  their  determina- 
tion— the  people  who  sang  as  they  were 
being  bombed  almost  to  the  last  inch, 
"There  will  always  be  an  England." 

We  went  to  the  Netherlands  and 
found  strong  people  there.  They  have 
been  fighting  against  the  ocean  and 
other  elements  all  their  eternities.  They 
are  wholesome,  warmhearted  people 
who  take  their  families  with  them 
everywhere  they  go,  even  on  their  bi- 
cycles. Two  bicycles  will  take  a  fam- 
ily of  four  or  five  or  six  to  Church,  to 
the  beach,  riding.   They  go  as  families. 

Belgium  is  in  both  the  French  and 
the  Netherlands  missions.  Here  we 
find  people  much  like  the  French,  to 
whom  I  had  difficulty  at  first  to  get 
close,  but  they  grow  on  one,  and  I 
found  sweet,  lovable  people,  old  women 
who  loved  the  gospel  as  any  of  our 
mothers  love  the  gospel,  and  youth  who 
are  willing  to  sacrifice  and  give  them- 
selves to  it. 

We  have  found  some  Spanish  mem- 
bers in  France,  Italian  members  in 
Switzerland.  We  have  Indonesian 
brothers  and  sisters  in  Holland  and 
Yugoslavs  in  Austria,  members  of  the 
Church,  faithful  members.  Greeks,  we 
found,  and  even  Russians  in  East  Ger- 
many belonging  to  the  Church.  One 
of  our  East  German  lady  missionaries 
was  begging  for  the  privilege  of  going 
on  a  mission  among  the  Russians  over 
in  East  Germany  or  in  Russia. 

We  went  into  the  Saar,  to  Saar- 
bruchen,  and  saw  the  devastation  there. 
One  cannot  forget  the  war;  its  ruins 
are  everywhere  present,  though  it  has 
been  ten  years.  I  cannot  imagine  what 
Brother  Benson  saw  a  decade  ago, 
when  there  is  still  so  much  destruction. 
I  crossed  the  Sarr  at  early  dawn.  I 
walked  with  the  workers  as  they  went 
with  their  lunch  baskets  over  to  their 
employment,  and  I  came  to  a  section 
of  the  city,  the  old  section,  which  has 
hardly  had  a  broken  brick  disturbed 
since  the  bomb  dust  settled,  and  all  of 
the  ugly  terrible  things  that  were  there 
ten  years  ago  still  remain  ghosts  of  the 
past. 

The  first  morning  in  Berlin  we  came 


76  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  1 

to  the  Charlottensburg  Chapel  for  our 
meeting  with  the  missionaries.  We  had 
already  become  somewhat  used  to  the 
sight  of  armless  men  and  legless  men 
on  the  streets.  We  saw  sightless  men 
and  crutch-supported  men  and  battle- 
scarred  men,  but  we  were  wholly  un- 
prepared for  the  experience  that  was  to 
meet  us  on  the  path  before  the  chapel 
when  there  came  running  to  us  a  hu- 
man form  like  a  derelict  at  sea.  His  hair 
was  disheveled,  his  eyes  glaring,  his 
face  unshaved,  his  clothes  in  tatters.  He 
came  shuffling  to  us  almost  as  much 
like  animal  as  man.  He  wrapped  his 
arms  around  our  feet;  he  kissed  our 
hands;  he  hugged  our  arms,  all  the 
time  uttering  a  plaintive  cry  and  finally 
spreading  his  fingers  over  his  eyes  to 
simulate  prison  bars  he  cried  out  in 
anguish,  "Six  years  in  prison.  Today, 
released  from  enemy  prison."  We  wept 
inside  as  we  saw  this  reduced  human, 
this  being  who  like  many  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  others  had  suffered  similar 
fates. 

Other  heartaches  came  in  various  parts 
of  the  city:  old  women  pacing  long- 
worn  station  platforms  meeting  trains 
and  busses,  their  placards  reading, 
"Have  you  seen  my  boy?"  Sometimes 
his  picture  was  on  the  placard,  and 
pictures  and  descriptions  were  in  news- 
papers of  lost  sons  and  husbands  and 
fathers. 

The  husband  of  one  of  our  own  lovely 
sisters  disappeared  ten  years  ago.  A 
twenty-five  year  prison  term  was  meted 
this  political  prisoner,  but  for  five  long 
years  the  family  never  knew  whether  he 
lived  or  died.  After  five  years  he  was 
located  in  a  prison  with  twenty  more 
years  to  serve.  Now  his  wife  may  visit 
him  under  guard  a  half  hour  each  three 
months;  he  may  write  twenty  lines  once 
a  month,  letters  which  are  censored. 

I  arose  very  early  one  morning  in 
Berlin  and  walked  out  to  see  the  ruins 
on  every  hand — across  the  street,  around 
the  block,  everywhere  they  were.  I 
plunged  into  a  sad,  reminiscent  reverie 
and  fell  into  the  mood  to  write  it  down 
and  returned  to  the  typewriter. 

May  I  quote  a  few  lines  from  my 
journal: 

Friday,  August  26,  1955: 

Ten  years  now  since  the  world  war  tragedy  I 


Second  Day 

Here  were  fences  around  the  former  grand 

estates 
Wire  fences, 
Rusty  fences, 

Wind-blown  rotting  fences, 
Proud,  haughty  fences  leveled  in  humilia- 
tion. 

Metal  gates  hanging  unkept;  creaking  hinges. 

Naked  walls,  irregular  walls,  pock-marked 
walls,  and  weeds  growing  from  their 
toothlike  stabbing  jaggedness; 

Green  ivy  trying  hard  to  cover  the  naked- 
ness of  walls — gaping  walls— absent 
walls  but  with  scores  of  broken  bricks 
still  indicating  where — 

Chipped  walls, 

Grass  atop  the  jagged  walls  holding  brave 
little  flowers  struggling  for  existence. 

There  were  windows,  too  many  windows, 
cold,  open  windows,  open  to  storm  and 
sky 

Boarded-up  windows, 
Bricked-up  windows, 
Glassless  windows. 

There  were  jagged  chimneys  piercing  skys, 
Iron  bedsteads  hanging  from  chimneys, 
Plumbing  pipes  reaching  into  space  like 
dragons'  claws. 

Here  were  trees — 

Limbless  trees  except  for  new  growth, 
Tall  trees  leaning,  branches  all  one  side, 
Amputated  limbs  and  trunks,  but  not  with 
saw. 

Jagged  arms  pointing  at — at  whom  are  they 
pointing? 

Vines  climbing  naked  trunks  to  cover 
broken  limbs  and  torn  and  battered 
trees. 

Small  trees,  ragged  shrubs  growing  from  the 
rubble  where  once  were  pianos,  rugs 
and  pictures; 

Trees  growing  untended 

Vines  climbing  and  spreading  to  cover 
ugliness. 

Nature  trying  to  sweeten  sourness. 
Grostesque  figures  standing  out  against  the 

sky,  pointing  into  space  like  accusing 

hands  and  fingers. 
Empty  pools, 

Broken  swimming  pools,  a  reminder  of 
leisure  and  luxury  of  forgotten  rich. 

Twisted  steel, 

Arches  without  buildings, 

Doorways  without  walls 

Porches  and  doorways,  nothing  else,  porches 
and  doorways. 

Sagging  floors, 

Ceilings  of  splintered  wood,  shattered  plaster 
hanging  like  cobwebs. 

Excavations  like  graves, 


ELDER  SPENCl 

Excavations  which  are  graves — 
Excavations  where  rodents  play  and  insects 
find  their  homes. 

Proud  estates,  quarter  blocks,  ghost  yards, 

spectre  houses,  all  so  still. 
Silence,  silence,  deathly  silence 
No  playful  shouts,  no  children  laugh. 
Silent  walls,  silent  houses,  silent  blocks, 

silent  death. 
Bricks  are  here — 
Broken  bricks, 
Pulverized  bricks, 

Piled  up  bricks,  covering  bones  of  humans 
never  found. 

Rubble,  rubble,  rubble, 
Foundations  up-ended, 
Rotting  wood, 
Twisted  steel, 

Destruction,  devastation,  desolation, 

Broken  fountains, 

Shattered  statues, 

Creaking  shutters 

Rusty  mail  boxes, 

Rustiness! 

Ugliness! 

Jaggedness! 

Screaming  jaggedness! 

Unmolested  squirrels  scampering, 

Tiny  birds  twittering 

To  bring  back  life  to  deadness. 

Walls,  chimneys,  trees,  grotesque  writhing 
apparitions! 

Persons?  Things?  Dragons?  Disfigured,  de- 
formed things 

Slumped  in  misery  and  shame. 

We  went  across  the  corridor  into 
Berlin.  We  came  to  feel  much  as  they 
seemed  to  feel,  I  think.  The  slamming 
of  a  door  startles  one.  A  new  voice  one 
has  not  heard  disturbs  one  for  the  mo- 
ment. There  is  the  corridor  with  its 
numerous  inspections  by  Americans  and 
Russians.  I  went  to  catch  the  train  as 
we  came  out,  and  as  I  got  out  of  the 
car  at  the  depot,  in  the  dark,  I  heard  a 
strange  voice  which  startled  me.  It 
said,  "Mr.  Kimball.  Let  me  see  your 
passport  and  travel  permits  with  the 
Russian  translations."  I  found  it  was 
only  one  of  the  United  States  Army 
boys,  but  coming  out  of  the  darkness  it 
was  quite  a  shock. 

We  held  a  meeting  all  day  with  the 
district  presidents,  about  a  hundred  of 
them  from  the  Russian  Zone,  from 
Koenigsberg  down  to  Dresden  and  Leip- 
zig. From  all  over  the  area  they  had 
come  in  for  this  meeting,  and  I  stood 


I  W.  KIMBALL  77 

three  hours  without  interruption  ex- 
plaining to  them  the  doctrines,  the  pro- 
gram, the  policy,  the  plan  of  the  Church. 
They  cannot  get  much  help  from  the 
mission  because  the  mission  authorities 
cannot  pass  through  the  iron  curtain. 
They  can  come  over  to  the  American 
sector  once  in  a  while  with  some 
jeopardy  to  themselves. 

Another  day  we  had  thirty-four  mis- 
sionaries from  beyond  the  curtain,  won- 
derful missionaries,  in  an  all-day  session 
of  testimony  and  instruction.  There 
were  twelve  young  women  and  twenty- 
two  young  men,  just  like  your  own  sons, 
not  quite  so  expensively  groomed,  few 
cameras,  little  money  to  spend.  Many 
of  them  average  about  $3.40  a  month. 

That  is  what  sustains  a  mission- 
ary with  the  depreciated  currency  of 
East  Germany.  Thirty-four  dollars 
would  take  care  of  ten  missionaries  a 
month;  a  hundred  dollars  would  nearly 
take  care  of  the  whole  mission  for  a 
month  or  would  sustain  one  missionary 
through  a  mission.  They  do  not  have 
many  luxuries,  very  few  indeed,  but 
their  testimonies  are  warm  and  con- 
vincing. I  could  have  spent  weeks  with 
them,  they  inspired  me  so! 

We  met  many  families  that  have 
been  disrupted.  One  sweet  member's 
husband  had  been  the  district  president 
and  had  disappeared  ten  years  ago  and 
has  never  been  heard  from  since.  The 
little  ten-year-old  son  who  played  about 
his  father's  knees  at  the  time  he  disap- 
peared, has  been  the  branch  president 
over  in  a  place  in  West  Germany  to 
which  they  had  been  evacuated,  and 
now  he  is  on  a  full-time  mission.  It 
was  my  privilege  the  other  day  to  see 
that  mother  and  that  son  together  in 
the  Swiss  Temple  through  the  blessings 
of  a  kind  soul  in  America  who  made  it 
possible  for  this  woman  to  go  to  Switzer- 
land. I  saw  the  sweet  mother  and  the 
stalwart  son  embrace  and  kiss  as  they 
met  in  the  holy  temple  in  Bern,  and 
they  went  through  the  temple  together 
for  their  endowments  and  are  waiting 
now,  of  course,  until  they  find  their 
husband-father  or  know  that  he  is  dead 
so  that  the  rest  of  the  temple  work  may 
be  attended  to. 

The  privilege  of  my  attending  the 
temple  dedication  was  a  glorious  one:  to 
be  with  President  McKay;  to  feel  the 


78 

Saturday,  October  1 

inspiration  of  that  occasion;  to  feel,  as 
he  has  expressed,  the  nearness  of  those 
who  may  generally  be  thought  to  be 
far  away;  to  see  the  glistening  eyes  of 
the  Saints  coming  from  all  these  coun- 
tries; to  hear  their  whispered  gratitudes; 
to  feel  their  newly  found  peace.  Some- 
one said  yesterday,  there  never  should 
have  been  a  Babel.  There  having  been 
a  Babel,  it  is  in  reverse  now.  The  con- 
fusion of  Babel  is  being  overcome.  The 
Finns  and  the  Dutch  and  the  British, 
the  Germans  and  the  French  and  the 
Hollanders,  the  Scandinavians,  Italians, 
Austrians  all  meeting  under  one  roof! 
All  of  them  heard  the  voice  of  the 
prophet  of  the  Lord.  Everyone  of  them 
heard  his  message  in  his  own  tongue. 
Everyone  of  them  heard  the  ordinances 
of  the  gospel,  the  ordinances  of  the 
temple,  in  his  own  tongue.  The  con- 
fusion of  Babel  is  in  reverse. 

The  hatreds  so  prevalent  in  the  past, 
are  melting — French,  Britishers,  and 
Hollanders,  and  Germans,  all  together 
with  love  for  each  other.  I  am  sure  the 
hatred  is  not  all  gone  in  the  nation, 
but  I  feel  it  is  greatly  reduced  among 
the  Saints,  and  they  love  each  other, 
and  their  is  sacrifice,  and  there  is  devo- 
tion, and  there  is  faith,  a  great  faith 
among  those  good  people. 

So  I  come  home  from  Europe,  after 
six  months  of  glorious  experiences  with 
the  people,  with  the  fine  leadership, 
with  the  excellent  missionaries,  the 
faithful  servicemen.  I  come  home  with 
a  deeper  appreciation  for  the  gospel  and 
the  Church  and  its  people. 

Nineteen  hundred  and  fifty-five  is  an 
important  year.  If  the  press  of  Eu- 
rope knew  what  had  actually  happened 
in  1955,  every  paper  would  have  had 
screaming  headlines  and  full-page, 
front-page  articles,  about  the  happenings 
of  the  year.  But  we  know  that  when 
the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  in 
1820,  there  were  no  headlines,  and  per- 
haps no  newspaper  heralded  the  com- 
ing of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  to  the 
world  in  1829  or  the  organization  of  the 
Church  in  1830  or  the  dedication  of 
the  temple  in  Kirtland  in  1836.  In 
1955,  the  priesthood  quorums  came  to 
all  the  missions  of  the  Church,  includ- 
ing the  European  missions;  the  temple 
came  to  Europe;  and  the  Church  came 
to  Europe  as  it  has  never  come  before; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

and  now,  as  we  have  told  the  Saints 
in  Europe  in  hundreds  of  meetings  in 
many  different  locations,  if  the  Saints 
in  Europe  will  remain  in  their  lands 
and  will  build  the  Church  and  the 
kingdom  in  Europe  and  train  and  hold 
their  children  and  bring  them  into  the 
holy  temples  in  Europe  for  marriage, 
the  kingdom  can  grow  and  prosper,  and 
God  will  bless  them,  and  that  I  know. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  as  I  express 
my  gratitude  upon  returning  home.  I 
bear  you  my  witness  that  the  gospel  is 
true,  it  is  glorious,  it  is  good,  it  is 
wholesome,  it  is  divine,  and  I  say  this 
earnestly  but  humbly  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Will  you  please  take  note  of  the 
following: 

He  who  has  just  concluded  speaking 
is  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  who  has  just 
completed  a  six  months'  mission  visit- 
ing the  European  Missions  of  the 
Church. 

The  following  announcement  is  of 
importance  as  regarding  the  Sunday 
morning  broadcast.  The  broadcast  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  to  be  heard  in 
this  building  tomorrow  morning,  was 
recorded  in  Zurich,  Switzerland.  This 
broadcast  will  be  heard  in  the  Taber- 
nacle and  on  the  air  from  9:30  to  10:00 
a.m.  The  doors  of  the  Tabernacle  will 
be  opened  at  9:15  tomorrow  morning. 
Those  who  enter  the  building  after 
9:30  a.m.  are  asked  to  do  so  quietly, 
and  without  conversation,  so  that  visi- 
tors assembled  here  may  hear  the  re- 
corded broadcast  undisturbed. 

As  we  have  listened  to  your  inspira- 
tional singing,  you  dear  young  folks, 
I  have  been  reminded  of  the  poet's 
tribute  to  youth: 

How  beautiful  is  youth!  how  bright  it 
gleams 

With  its  illusions,  aspirations,  dreams! 
Book  of  Beginnings,  Story  without  End, 
Each  maid  a  heroine,  and  every  man  a 
friend! 

I  wish  to  add  to  that,  how  inspira- 
tionally  you  have  sung  this  day,  and 
awakened  righteous  pride  in  our  hearts 
for  your  willing  service  rendered:  and 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


79 


the  third  thought — years  rush  by  us  like 
the  wind.  You  are  enjoying  youth  to- 
day. You  have  rendered  service  which 
all  the  congregation  here  assembled 
and  listening  in,  have  enjoyed.  It  will 
be  only  a  few  years  when  you  will  be 
carrying  the  responsibilities  of  the 
Church.  God  bless  you  that  you  may 
so  live  that  you  will  be  worthy  of  the 
inspiration  and  guidance  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  who  stands  at 
the  head  of  our  Church,  and  who  loves 
every  one  of  you  and  would  have  you 
join  him  in  representing  the  whole 
human  family,  eventually,  to  his  Fa- 
ther, our  Father,  and  God.  Thank  you 
and  your  leaders,  and  God  bless  you. 

This  great  Chorus  will  now  sing, 
"Psalm  150,"  conducted  by  Sister  Ruth 
Hardy  Funk.  The  closing  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  John  L.  Murdock,  Pres- 
ident of  the  Santa  Rosa  Stake,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  be  ad- 
journed until  7  o'clock  this  evening, 
when  the  General  Meeting  of  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Church  will  be  held 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle. 

Only  those  holding  the  Priesthood 
are  invited  to  be  present.  Persons  not 
holding  the  Priesthood  will  kindly  re- 


frain from  attempting  to  enter  the 
building.  This  Priesthood  Session  will 
not  be  broadcast,  excepting  in  the  over- 
flow meetings  that  have  already  been 
appointed,  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
Barratt  Hall,  and  by  direct  wire  over 
a  public  address  system  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  assembled,  in  addition 
to  Barratt  Hall  and  the  Assembly  Hall, 
in  fifty-seven  other  Church  buildings  in 
Idaho,  Utah,  Colorado,  Washington, 
Oregon,  Arizona,  Wyoming,  Nevada, 
and  California.  It  will  probably  be  the 
largest  assembly  of  Priesthood  ever  held 
in  the  Church. 

The  session  at  10  o'clock  Sunday 
morning  will  be  broadcast  over  the  sta- 
tions already  named. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "Psalm 
150."  Benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  John  L.  Murdock,  and  this  con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  this 
evening. 


The  M.I.A.  Chorus  sang  an  anthem, 
"Psalm  150,"  after  which  the  closing 
prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  L. 
Murdock,  President  of  the  Santa  Rosa 
Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7:00  p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  October  1,  1955. 

The  Tabernacle,  auditorium  and  gal- 
leries, was  filled  to  capacity.  The  As- 
sembly Hall  just  south  of  the  Taber- 
nacle, and  the  Barratt  Hall  were  also 
filled  with  people.  Provision  had  been 
made  for  the  overflow  crowds  to  meet 
in  these  buildings  and  see  and  hear 
the  services  as  they  were  broadcast  from 
the  Tabernacle.  In  addition,  the  serv- 
ices were  broadcast  by  direct  wire  over 
a  public  address  system  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  who  had  assembled  in 
50  other  Church  buildings  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Wyoming,  Nevada,  Colorado, 
Washington,  Oregon,  Arizona,  and  Cali- 
fornia. 

The  singing  for  this  meeting  was 
furnished  by  the  Bonneville  Stake 
Priesthood  Chorus,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  David  A.  Shand.  Roy  M.  Dar- 
ley  was  at  the  organ  console. 


President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  of  this  meet- 
ing. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

My  dear  fellow  workers  in  the  Cause 
of  the  Redeemer:  I  wish  that  each  of 
you  might  stand  where  I  am  now  stand- 
ing and  behold  this  inspirational  sight. 
It  cannot  be  duplicated,  I  think*  any- 
where else  in  the  world.  And  there  are 
others  crowding  other  halls,  as  we  are 
crowding  this  Tabernacle,  all  one  in 
thought,  in  purpose,  and  I  hope,  in 
brotherhood. 

You  will  be  interested  to  know  that 
these  services  are  being  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall,  and  in 
addition,  by  direct  wire  over  a  public 
address  system  to  members  of  the 
Priesthood  assembled  in  57  other 
Church  buildings  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Col- 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  1 

orado,  Washington,  Oregon,  Arizona, 
Wyoming,  Nevada,  and  California. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Bonneville  Stake 
Priesthood  Chorus,  with  Elder  David 
A.  Shand  as  Director,  and  Elder  Roy 
M.  Darley  at  the  organ.  This  chorus 
will  now  sing,  "The  Lord's  Prayer." 
After  the  singing  Elder  David  B.  Haight, 
president  of  the  Palo  Alto  Stake,  will 
offer  the  opening  prayer. 


As  an  opening  number  the  Bonne- 
ville Stake  Priesthood  Chorus  sang 
"The  Lord's  Prayer,"  after  which  the 
invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  David 
B.  Haight,  President  of  the  Palo  Alto 
Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

In  case  some  of  our  brethren  listening 
in  are  a  little  late,  he  who  offered  the 
invocation  is  Elder  David  B.  Haight, 
president  of  the  Palo  Alto  Stake. 

The  Bonneville  Stake  Priesthood 
Chorus  will  sing,  "Zion  Hears  the 
Watchman  Singing,"  directed  by  Elder 
David  A.  Shand. 


Second  Day 

The  Chorus  then  sang,  "Zion  Hears 
the  Watchman  Singing." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

I  have  often  said  that  love  is  the  di- 
vinest  attribute  of  the  human  soul,  and 
I  believe  that.  I  think  that  sympathy  is 
next  to  it.  There  are  others  who  say 
that  reverence  is  the  highest  virtue  of  the 
human  soul.  I  believe  that  Carlyle 
places  reverence  as  the  highest  attri- 
bute. 

The  First  Presidency,  in  anticipat- 
ing this  vast  audience,  and  the  impor- 
tance of  this  great  Priesthood  meeting, 
thought  that  it  would  be  a  good  place 
to  center  our  minds  upon  Reverence, 
and  the  need  of  applying  it  or  express- 
ing it  in  our  houses  of  worship. 

Consequently,  we  assigned  the  sub- 
ject, "How  to  Obtain  Better  Order  and 
More  Reverence  in  Our  Houses  of  Wor- 
ship," to  two  of  your  associates,  presi- 
dents of  stakes.  We  shall  now  hear 
from  President  Thomas  W.  Muir,  presi- 
dent of  the  Emigration  Stake,  on  that 
subject. 


ELDER  THOMAS  W.  MUIR 

President  of  the  Emigration  Stake 


l  Y  BELOVED  BRETHREN  of  the 

Priesthood,  I  can  assure 
you  that  it  is  an  awe- 
some task  to  stand  before 
you  this  evening,  in  the 
presence  of  the  Lord's 
anointed,  and  of  you  my  brethren,  and 
attempt  to  discuss  the  subject  of  ob- 
taining and  maintaining  reverence  in 
the  Church.  Were  it  not  for  the  sym- 
pathy and  the  love  of  my  presiding 
brethren,  and  for  the  prayers  which  I 
feel  are  in  your  hearts  for  me,  I  should 
shrink  from  this  great  responsibility. 

When  I  consider  the  number  of 
brethren  who  are  gathered  here  this 
evening,  and  those  who  will  listen  to 
the  proceedings  of  this  session  of  this 
Conference,  I  am  grateful  to  my  Father 
in  Heaven  that,  through  the  medium 
of  the  great  inventions  that  have  been 
brought  to  us  for  our  benefit,  through 
the  inspiration  of  our  Father  in  Heaven, 


the  messages  of  this  great  Conference 
may  be  heard  by  our  brethren  and 
sisters  throughout  the  length  and 
breadth  of  the  Church. 

Someone  has  said  that  "reverence  is 
the  mark  of  a  divine  testimony  and  of 
sincere  worship."  I  should  like  to  agree, 
my  brethren,  with  that  definition,  for 
without  a  divine  testimony  burning  in 
our  hearts  that  God  lives  and  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  World, 
we  should  find  it  difficult  to  worship 
them  in  spirit  and  in  truth. 

That  is  what  we  have  met  for  in  this 
great  Conference  of  the  Church.  We 
have  been  invited  to  meet  here  where 
we  may  hear  the  messages  of  the 
Lord's  anointed  and  where  we,  under 
the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
may  resolve  to  correct  and  better  our 
lives,  that  we  may  more  fully  live  in 
keeping  with  the  commandments  and 
the  desires  of  our  Father  in  Heaven. 


ELDER  THOMAS  W.  MUIR 


81 


I  believe  this  matter  of  reverence  is 
a  personal  matter  with  each  one  of  us 
and  as  we  come  to  love  our  Heavenly 
Father  more  dearly,  and  as  we  bring 
into  our  lives  the  realization  of  the 
great  mission  of  our  Lord  and  Savior, 
Jesus  Christ,  we  become  more  reverent 
in  our  thoughts  concerning  them  and 
in  the  actions  of  our  lives. 

I  believe  among  other  things  that 
the  matter  of  reverence  resolves  itself 
into  responsibilities  which  you  and  I 
have.  First  I  shall  name  an  acceptance 
of  our  responsibility  to  worship  and  to 
adore  God  our  Father  and  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ.  I  am  sure  that  no  people 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth  have  a  better 
understanding  of  the  attributes  and 
nature  of  God  our  Father,  and  our  Lord, 
Jesus  Christ,  than  have  we. 

We  who  have  a  testimony  of  the 
Gospel  believe  that  in  that  Sacred 
Grove,  on  that  beautiful  spring  morning, 
the  Father  and  Son  actually  appeared 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  this 
is  the  basis  of  every  testimony  and  be- 
lief which  we  have,  and  were  it  not 
that  we  believe  implicitly  and  without 
doubt  in  this  testimony  of  the  First 
Vision,  we  should  not  be  led  to  believe 
any  of  the  other  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  which  have  been 
revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 

Because  of  this  testimony  which  we 
have,  and  this  feeling  which  is  within 
our  hearts,  our  minds,  and  our  souls, 
we  are  led  to  the  conclusion  that  our 
great  responsibility  is  to  honor  and 
reverence  God  our  Father,  and  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ. 

Then  I  think  another  conclusion  we 
must  come  to  is  that  an  acceptance  of 
this  belief  brings  to  us  the  great  re- 
sponsibility that  no  blasphemy  shall 
pass  our  lips,  that  our  lives  shall  be 
wholly  in  keeping  with  that  which  we 
know  to  be  the  truth,  that  we  shall  not 
be  found  telling  rude  or  lewd  stories, 
but  that  our  language  in  all  that  we 
say  must  be  in  accordance  with  that 
which  we  believe. 

Then  I  think  we  have  the  great  re- 
sponsibility to  honor  and  revere  and 
reverence  those  who  have  been  chosen, 
set  apart,  and  ordained  as  the  divine 
servants  of  our  Father  in  Heaven,  and 
they  should  know  that  we  of  the  Priest- 


hood have  in  our  hearts  a  desire  to 
sustain  and  support  them  in  the  great 
responsibilities  that  are  theirs. 

Then  I  believe  that  we  have  the 
great  responsibility  of  honoring  the 
Sabbath  Day  and  keeping  it  holy. 
Coupled  with  that  is  the  obligation  to 
visit  the  House  of  the  Lord  on  the 
Sabbath  Day  and  then  conduct  our- 
selves within  the  sacred  edifices  which 
have  been  dedicated  to  the  worship  of 
Almighty  God  to  the  end  that  we  may 
have  the  Holy  Spirit  of  our  Father  and 
His  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  to  be  with  us. 

Now,  what  is  our  problem,  my  breth- 
ren of  the  Priesthood?  I  believe  that 
you  all  know  that  as  Latter-day  Saints 
we  are  a  friendly  people.  We  usually 
attend  Sacrament  Service  with  our 
neighbors,  those  with  whom  we  are 
well  acquainted,  and  throughout  the 
Church  it  has  become  a  habit  with  us  to 
meet  with  them  and  talk  to  them,  prior 
to  the  convening  of  our  Sacrament 
Services  and  sometimes  during  those 
Sacrament  Services,  to  the  annoyance  of 
some  and  to  an  exhibition  of  a  lack  of 
reverence  on  our  part. 

I  know  that  most  of  you  have  had 
within  your  hearing  criticism  levelled 
at  you  by  investigators  and  others  who 
are  not  members  of  the  Church,  that 
we  are  not  a  reverent  people.  I  be- 
lieve that  we  shall  have  to  accept  this 
indictment  of  our  friends.  I  believe 
that  the  time  has  now  come  within  the 
Church  that  we  should  weigh  this  im- 
portant matter  within  our  minds  and 
see  if  our  Sacrament  Services,  and  the 
other  services  which  we  hold  in  the 
name  of  our  Father  in  Heaven,  can- 
not come  more  closely  to  that  which 
we  desire. 

Now,  I  know  the  power  and  influ- 
ence of  the  Priesthood  of  this  Church 
is  great  and  that  each  one  of  us,  indi- 
vidually, accepting  the  responsibility 
to  teach  and  persuade  others  to  live  in 
a  spirit  of  reverence  would  accomplish 
wonders  within  our  Church.  I  be- 
lieve that  each  of  us  who  hold  the 
Priesthood  has  a  responsibility  to  bring 
to  the  attention  of  our  families  the  con- 
dition which  exists. 

I  believe  the  brethren  of  the  Church 
who  are  the  patriarchs  of  their  own 
homes  have  the  greatest  influence,  or 
at  least  should  have,  with  their  families 


82 

Saturday,  October  1 

of  any  who  might  talk  to  them.  I  be- 
lieve that  we,  as  fathers  in  Israel,  have 
the  responsibility  of  calling  our  children 
and  our  wives  into  counsel  with  us  and 
there  we  should  explain  to  them  the 
great  necessity  of  our  conforming  our 
lives  to  this  great  principle  of  reverence. 

I  would  like  to  say  that  I  believe  that 
those  who  are  in  charge  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  of  the  Church,  as  advisors, 
as  bishops  of  wards,  should  explain  this 
great  principle  of  reverence  to  our  young 
men.  I  believe  that  the  auxiliary  organ- 
izations of  the  Church,  through  their 
officers  and  teachers,  should  explain 
that  which  is  required  and  that  which 
is  desired,  that  our  services  may  be  more 
beautiful  and  in  keeping  with  that 
which  our  Prophet  desires. 

I  would  like  to  say  something,  too, 
about  the  physical  conditions  in  our 
Houses  of  Worship.  I  believe  that  when 
we  invite  the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  to  meet  with  us  there,  that  his 
house  should  be  immaculate.  When 
our  Father  told  us  that  we  should  keep 
our  bodies  clean,  I  believe  that  he  also 
meant  that  we  should  keep  our  Houses 
of  Worship  in  the  same  way.  You  are 
all  aware  that  at  our  Sacrament  Serv- 
ices the  central  and  most  important 
feature  is  the  administration  and  pass- 
ing of  the  Sacrament  to  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church.  I  should  like  to 
see  the  day  when  every  Sacrament  table 
in  the  Church  would  be  graced  with 
the  finest  and  most  immaculate  linen 
that  is  possible  to  place  upon  that 
table.  I  believe  that  there  are  those 
within  our  wards  who  would  be  happy 
to  receive  that  assignment. 

I  believe  there  are  many  things  that 
would  especially  contribute  to  the 
solemnity  of  our  Sacrament  Services,  and 
one  of  those  is  this:  That  we  be  more 
punctual  in  our  attendance  at  those 
meetings.  My  brethren,  I  have  attended 
meetings  where  there  were  so  many 
who  entered  the  chapel  late,  and  the 
disturbance  so  great,  that  I  felt  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  had  been  offended. 
Someone  has  said  that  "Punctuality  is 
a  stern  virtue  and  a  graceful  courtesy." 
I  say  when  we  are  invited  to  meet  in 
the  House  of  the  Lord  with  the  Spirit 
of  our  Father  in  Heaven,  that  we  should 
be  there  on  time  and  that  we  should 
not  destroy  the  spirit,  the  solemnity,  nor 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

the  beauty  of  the  meeting  by  our  ar- 
riving late. 

I  believe  that  we  might  enlist  the 
services  of  the  Ward  Teachers  and  our 
Relief  Society  Teachers  of  the  Church 
as  they  visit  in  the  homes  of  the  Saints 
to  carry  this  message  of  reverence  into 
their  homes.  If  our  brethren  who  are 
called  to  this  great  responsibility  of 
Ward  Teaching  have  the  influence  they 
should  have  in  the  homes  of  the  Saints, 
they  could  carry  this  message  and  be  a 
great  instrument  in  changing  the  lives 
of  many  of  our  people  in  their  conduct 
in  our  meetings. 

I  am  sure  that  you  are  all  aware  of 
the  interest  President  David  O.  McKay 
has  had  in  this  matter.  I  am  sure  that 
most  of  you  have  read  his  message  in 
the  October  issue  of  The  Improvement 
Era.  If  you  have  not  done  so,  will  you 
go  home  and  read  that  message,  that 
you  may  know  his  desires  in  this  im- 
portant matter. 

Then  I  am  happy  that  the  Primary 
Association  of  the  Church  has  instituted 
a  project  of  teaching  reverence  to  the 
children  of  the  Primary  Association  and 
each  month  of  this  year  they  have 
brought  a  message  of  reverence  to  the 
young  people  who  attend  this  organiza- 
tion. 

Since  the  invitation  by  President 
McKay  to  speak  to  you  tonight  I  have 
been  thinking  of  two  lines  of  one  of 
our  beautiful  hymns  which  I  believe 
express  this  spirit  of  reverence  which 
should  be  in  the  hearts  and  minds  of 
each  one  of  us: 

Jesus,  the  very  thought  of  thee 
With  sweetness  fills  my  breast. 

My  brethren  of  the  Priesthood,  this 
is  the  very  spirit  of  reverence.  In  con- 
clusion I  should  like  to  bear  witness  to 
you,  my  brethren,  of  my  testimony,  of 
the  truth  of  this  great  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged.  I  believe  with  all  my 
heart  that  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  our  Heavenly  Father,  ap- 
peared to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in 
that  Sacred  Grove.  I  believe  that  every 
commandment  and  every  revelation  that 
has  been  given  to  us  to  accomplish  the 
fullness  of  the  Gospel  is  indeed  the 
Word  of  the  Lord  unto  his  servants. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  ]R 


83 


Now,  may  our  Father's  choicest  bless- 
ings be  with  us,  and  as  we  go  back  into 
our  homes  in  the  stakes  and  the  mis- 
sions, in  the  wards  and  the  branches 
of  the  Church,  may  we  seek  more 
reverently  to  serve  our  Father  in  Heav- 
en. 

This  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  President 
William  }.  Critchlow,  president  of  the 
South  Ogden  Stake.  He  will  speak  on 
this  same  subject.  I  will  say  that  he 
was  engaged  in  organizing  the  group 
assembled  tonight  in  the  Ogden  Tab- 
ernacle. He  has  driven  35  miles  to  re- 
spond to  this  invitation. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 

President  of  the  South  Ogden  Stake 


|  Y   DEAR  BRETHREN,   I  have 

hardly  had  time  to  collect 
my  wits,  let  alone  my 
thoughts  and  notes,  since 
President  McKay  called 
me  this  afternoon,  to  talk 
on  the  subject,  "How  to  Improve  the 
Reverence  and  Order  in  the  Chapels  of 
our  Stakes."  I  believe  that  obedience 
is  one  of  the  first  principles  of  the 
Gospel  and  that  reverence  is  the  very 
soul  of  Christianity.  I  revere  our  Presi- 
dent, and  I  pray  that  I  may  have  the 
courage  to  always  follow  his  counsel, 
to  sustain  him  and  the  General  Author- 
ities of  the  Church,  and  to  follow  their 
counsel.  Such  obedience,  it  seems  to  me, 
is  the  real  essence  of  reverence. 

A  month  or  so  ago,  President  and 
Sister  McKay  attended  a  Pioneer 
League  ball  game  at  Ogden,  and  my 
heart  filled  with  pride  when  the  activ- 
ity on  the  field  stopped  and  the  three 
thousand  people  present  arose  to  their 
feet  when  the  President  and  his  dear 
wife  entered  the  stadium.  Honor  and 
respect,  my  brethren,  are  elements  of 
reverence. 

The  Priesthood  offices  which  we  hold 
deserve  our  own  personal  respect  and 
honor  and  the  respect  in  which  we  hold 
them,  I  am  sure,  is  a  measure  of  our 
reverence. 

Our  Priesthood  is  undoubtedly  God's 
greatest  gift  to  his  children.  Three 
reasons  prompt  that  statement.  First, 
we  who  hold  the  Priesthood  are  officers 
in  his  Kingdom;  we  are  in  training; 
and  greater  responsibilities  lie  ahead. 
Only  one  and  one-half  million  out  of 
two  billion  children — our  Father's  chil- 
dren— now  gracing  the  earth,  are  pres- 
ently enrolled  in  his  Kingdom  and 


since  it  is  destined  to  cover  the  earth, 
the  weight  of  our  responsibilities  is 
not  only  apparent  but  staggering.  May 
the  training  we  are  now  experiencing 
fit  us  for  our  tasks. 

Secondly,  offices  in  the  Priesthood  are 
accompanied  by  a  power  that  is  beyond 
our  present  ability  to  appreciate.  It 
may  be  likened  to  electrical  energy. 
Vocationally  I  have  been  selling  elec- 
tricity for  years,  yet  I've  never  seen  it 
and  I  don't  know  what  it  is,  but  I  do 
know  some  of  the  things  it  can  accom- 
plish and  I'm  sure  additional  uses  will 
be  discovered.  The  power  of  the  Priest- 
hood is  similar  to  electrical  power  in 
that  it,  too,  cannot  be  seen.  And  again, 
we  do  not  know  what  it  is,  yet  we  are 
aware  of  many  miraculous  things  result- 
ing from  its  use.  We  have  seen  the 
sick  healed;  we  know  the  dead  have 
been  raised;  and  we  have  been  told 
that  by  the  power  of  the  Priesthood 
worlds  without  number  were  created. 
As  officers  in  God's  Kingdom,  we  have 
access  to  this  power,  and  as  we  pro- 
gress in  our  training  we  shall  become 
aware  of  many  other  applications  of 
this  marvelous  power. 

Lastly,  if  we  are  faithful  to  our 
Priesthood  and  magnify  our  callings, 
we  may  be  sanctified,  so  we  are  told, 
by  the  spirit  unto  the  renewing  of  our 
bodies,  and  all  that  our  Father  has 
may  be  ours. 

Now  brethren,  can  you  think  of  a 
greater  gift?  May  I  repeat,  our  Priest- 
hood deserves  honor  and  demands  our 
greatest  respect.  These  constitute  the 
essence  of  reverence. 

My  objective  is  not  to  philosophize 
on  this  subject  of  reverence.  I  have  been 
asked  to  tell  you  what  a  stake  president 


84  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  1 

can  do  to  promote  and  increase  rev- 
erence in  his  stake.  In  my  stake  we 
have  asked  our  stake  Primary  Board 
to  introduce  and  spearhead  an  activity 
which  they  accepted  at  the  last  General 
Primary  Conference.  They  have  pre- 
pared a  little  dramatic  skit  involving 
the  reverence  theme  which  will  inter- 
est any  age  group.  It  was  presented 
to  our  stake  executives  in  our  monthly 
stake  leadership  meeting  where  Sunday 
School,  M.I.A.,  Primary  and  other  stake 
officers  were  in  attendance.  It  was  also 
presented  in  our  monthly  Priesthood 
Leadership  Meeting  where  bishoprics, 
presidencies  of  elders,  seventies  and  high 
priest  quorums  were  in  attendance.  We 
have  requested  that  it  be  presented  in 
Ward  Leadership  Meetings  and  to 
groups  of  parents,  invited  by  our 
bishops  for  the  express  purpose  of  dis- 
cussing the  problem  of  reverence.  I 
commend  it  to  you  stake  presidents 
with  a  suggestion  that  you  have  your 
stake  Primary  Boards,  to  whom  the  skit 
has  been  made  available  by  the  Gen- 
eral Board,  present  it  to  leaders  in  your 
respective  stakes.  Witnessing  the  skit 
will  create  more  interest  and  be  more 
helpful  than  anything  I  might  say  to- 
night on  the  reverence  subject. 

The  conduct  as  well  as  attitudes  of 
leaders  in  the  stakes  and  wards  too  fre- 
quently promote  irreverence.  We  teach 
by  example  as  well  as  precept,  and  the 
first  step  in  solving  the  reverence  prob- 
lem, or  any  other  problem  for  that 
matter,  is  a  frank  recognition  that  the 
problem  actually  exists. 

The  earliest  training  in  discipline  be- 
longs in  the  home,  but  since  parents 
generally  neglect  teaching  the  Gospel 
in  their  homes,  it  is  reasonable  to  sus- 
pect that  training  in  reverence  is  simi- 
larly neglected.  The  problem  accord- 
ingly has  fallen  into  the  laps  of  Church 
leaders  and  teachers  and  we  are  obliged 
to  make  up  for  this  parental  neglect  in 
order  to  enjoy  reverence  in  our  meetings 
or  gatherings. 

Recently  I  observed  a  bishopric  in 
action.  Five  minutes  before  Sacrament 
Meeting  was  scheduled  to  begin,  I  sat 
alone  on  the  stand;  the  bishopric  were 
greeting  people  at  the  door.  When  it 
was  time  to  begin  the  meeting,  they 
came  to  the  stand,  conferred  among 
themselves,  then  signaled  the  organist 


Second  Day 

to  stop  playing  and  then  the  meeting 
began,  tardily.  Notwithstanding  the 
lovely  preliminary  music,  there  was 
disorder.  Conversation  was  rampant, 
until  the  bishop  arose  to  start  the 
service. 

It  seems  to  me  that  order  or  rever- 
ence might  well  begin  with  the  lead- 
ers. Bishoprics  should  be  counseled  to 
be  reverently  in  their  place  during  the 
quieting  music.  How  can  they  expect 
others  to  refrain  from  talking  when  they 
are  conferring  among  themselves?  In 
the  Primary  skit,  to  which  I  have  made 
reference,  teachers  were  observed  com- 
ing to  meeting  late,  as  well  as  unpre- 
pared. They  were  shown  in  a  huddle 
determining  who  would  conduct,  who 
would  lead  the  singing,  what  song  to 
sing,  who  would  teach  a  class  and  who 
was  to  pray. 

Preparation,  my  brethren,  is  a  key  to 
reverence.  Promptness  in  beginning 
meetings  begets  respect,  and  discipline 
is  born  of  respect. 

One  of  my  bishops,  a  while  ago,  vis- 
ited a  Primary  meeting.  He  arrived  be- 
fore the  teachers  and  he  found  children 
dancing  on  a  grand  piano;  others  climb- 
ing out  of  chapel  windows.  He  angrily 
forbade  his  Primary  to  hold  subse- 
quent meetings  in  the  lovely  chapel. 
Later  he  did  relent  upon  promise  of 
the  president  to  have  at  least  one  of- 
ficer of  the  Primary  there  early  to  su- 
pervise the  children  as  they  arrived. 
We  want  our  children  to  enjoy  the  en- 
vironment of  our  lovely  chapels.  Beau- 
tiful surroundings — lovely  class  rooms — 
promote  reverence. 

A  new  Primary  president  once  came 
to  me  and  said,  "Our  janitor  at  the 
chapel  refuses  to  let  children  enter 
the  building  until  the  exact  starting 
time  of  our  meetings  because  the  chil- 
dren run  wild  and  deface  the  furnish- 
ings. He  is  rough;  has  an  iron  hook 
in  place  of  a  missing  hand  and  has 
scared  children  away  from  Primary." 
What  had  really  happened  was  obvious. 
Primary  officers  and  teachers  were  ar- 
riving later  than  the  children.  There 
was  no  supervision  and  I  discovered 
that  children  had  actually  been  kept  out 
in  rain  and  snow  until  teachers  arrived. 
This  problem  again  was  easily  remedied 
by  the  simple  assignment  of  one  teacher 
to  be  on  hand  when  children  arrived 


ELDER  WILLIAM  ].  CRITCHLOW,  JR 


85 


with  further  instructions  to  stay  on 
guard  while  other  teachers  were  en- 
joying an  early  prayer  meeting. 

When  did  you  bishops  last  attend  a 
Primary  meeting,  or  an  M.I.A.  meeting? 
Some  of  you  saw  the  film  here  last  eve- 
ning. You  witnessed  the  interest  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  advisors  had  in  the 
boys,  how  they  labored  with  them, 
talked  to  them,  and  visited  in  their 
homes.  When  all  of  our  leaders  exhibit 
the  same  love  and  interest  in  the  mem- 
bership of  their  groups,  discipline  or 
reverence  will  no  longer  be  a  problem. 

Executives  in  all  of  our  organizations 
can  well  afford  to  hold  preliminary 
prayer  meetings,  in  which  arrangements 
for  teachers  and  all  other  business  of 
the  meeting  to  follow  can  be  checked. 
Teachers  should  never  absent  them- 
selves from  classes  without  providing 
substitute  teachers  and  they  should  al- 
ways remember  that  they  are  teaching 
children  rather  than  lessons. 

Recently  I  visited  an  elders  quorum 
meeting.  The  teacher  passed  the  lesson 
manual  around,  inviting  members  to 
read  sections  of  the  lesson.  I  detected 
a  spirit  of  irreverence.  Obviously  the 
class  resented  the  procedure;  some  were 
reluctant  to  read,  preferring,  I  am  sure, 
to  be  taught  by  the  teacher.  He,  ob- 
viously, was  unprepared.  Unprepared- 
ness  on  the  part  of  a  teacher  may  well 
be  a  contributing  factor  to  a  state  of 
irreverence. 

Now  a  word  about  younger  children 
in  sacrament  meetings.  Bishops,  you 
have  the  responsibility  of  tactfully  ad- 
vising parents  not  to  let  their  children 
run  up  and  down  aisles.  This  practice 
distracts  attention  and  also  disturbs 
speakers.  Members  have  been  frank 
enough  to  tell  me  that  they  dislike  to 
go  to  meetings.  "Too  many  noisy 
children,"  one  said.  Many  of  our  chapels 
now  have  cry  rooms.  Parents  with 
noisy  children  should  be  tactfully  coun- 
seled to  use  them. 

Some  of  us  may  presently  be  occu- 
pying new  chapels.  There  is  no  better 
time  to  initiate  a  program  of  rever- 
ence. The  building  is  new,  beautiful, 
and  one  has  a  natural  desire  to  respect 
it  as  a  House  of  the  Lord.  Years  ago, 
I  attended  a  sacrament  meeting  in  a 
new  chapel  in  Brigham  City.  My  host 
said  to  me,  as  we  were  about  to  enter, 


"Please  don't  whisper  during  the  serv- 
ice, otherwise  one  of  the  appointed 
monitors,  seated  in  the  rear,  may  ob- 
serve and  will  surely  come  down  and 
tap  you  on  the  shoulder.  Let's  not  be 
humiliated."  You  may  be  assured  I 
did  not  whisper. 

Now  brethren,  let  us,  too,  be  firm  in 
this  matter  of  reverence.  Our  approach 
should  be  firm,  sincere,  and  of  course 
tactful.  Irreverence  may  actually  be 
keeping  some  of  our  members  from 
our  meetings. 

Our  stake  Primary  Board  made  a 
survey  at  the  request  of  the  General 
Board,  to  find  out  what  children  liked 
or  disliked  about  Primary.  One  of  the 
questions  asked  was,  "How  could  my 
teacher  make  Primary  better?"  Many 
of  the  children  answered,  "Keep  order 
in  the  class."  Another  question  was, 
"What  do  you  like  least  about  Pri- 
mary?" One  child's  answer  summed  up 
the- many,  "Disorder — especially  when 
the  teacher  doesn't  come."  The  survey 
clearly  indicated  that  children  want  to 
be  disciplined.  The  kind  of  teachers 
they  like  are  good  ones,  strict  ones, 
those  who  can  give  a  good  lesson,  those 
who  can  keep  the  class  quiet,  the  kind 
ones,  etc.  Surveys  of  this  kind  can  be 
revealing.  To  questions  that  may  in- 
volve embarrassment,  adults  are  in- 
clined to  be  evasive;  children  will  speak 
truthfully,  as  well  as  eagerly.  We  dis- 
covered that  in  another  children's  sur- 
vey several  years  ago.  We  asked,  "How 
many  of  you  have  family  prayers  in 
your  homes?"  The  truthful  answers 
were  startling,  to  say  the  least.  We 
learned  some  things  about  the  habits 
of  a  few  of  our  leaders. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  inject  one  other 
very  good  reason  for  the  most  profound 
reverence  possible  in  our  sacred  gath- 
erings, namely,  to  avoid  offense  to  our 
unseen  visitors.  There  have  been  times 
when  I  have  been  conducting  stake  con- 
ferences that  I  thought  I  felt  the  pres- 
ence of  unseen  visitors.  We  always  re- 
quest the  help  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
in  our  opening  prayers.  Why  then  is  it 
unreasonable  to  fancy  the  presence  of 
that  requested  help?  Isn't  it  reasonable 
also  to  expect  that  authorities  on  the 
unseen  side  of  our  Father's  Kingdom  are 
interested  in  what  we  may  be  doing? 

General   Authorities   come   to  our 


86 

Saturday,  October  1 

stake  conferences  to  help  and  check  on 
us;  stake  authorities  go  into  the  wards 
to  help  and  check;  and  I  fancy  that 
some  of  our  Father's  other  authorities, 
likewise  come  occasionally,  to  inspire 
and  to  check.  And  for  their  sakes,  we 
ought  to  be  profoundly  reverent. 

Stake  presidents  and  bishops  cannot 
escape  the  responsibility  of  promoting 
reverence  in  our  respective  stakes  and 
wards.  Responsibility  may  be  delegated 
but  in  the  delegation  presidents  and 
bishops  lose  none  of  it,  yet  those  so 
delegated  receive  it  all.  It's  like  "eat- 
ing our  cake  and  having  it."  That,  how- 
ever, is  the  peculiar  nature  of  responsi- 
bility. 

I  found  an  excellent  reverence  appli- 
cation in  this  story  told  by  a  Primary 
teacher.  "Rupert  stood  by  the  side  of 
the  road  watching  an  unusual  number 
of  people  hurry  past.  At  length  he  rec- 
ognized a  friend.  'Where  are  all  of  you 
going  in  such  a  hurry?'  he  asked.  The 
friend  paused,  'Haven't  you  heard?'  he 
said.  'I've  heard  nothing,'  Rupert  an- 
swered. 'Well,'  continued  his  friend, 
'the  King  has  lost  his  royal  emerald! 
Yesterday  he  attended  a  wedding  of  the 
nobility  and  wore  the  emerald  on  the 
slender  golden  chain  around  his  neck. 
In  some  way  the  emerald  became  loos- 
ened from  the  chain.  Everyone  is 
searching,  for  the  King  has  offered  a 
reward  of  ten  pieces  of  gold  to  the 
one  who  finds  it.  Come,  we  must  hur- 
ry.' 'But  I  cannot  go  without  asking 
grandmother,'  faltered  Rupert.  'Then  I 
cannot  wait.  I  want  to  find  the  emer- 
ald,' replied  his  friend.  Rupert  hurried 
back  to  the  cabin  at  the  edge  of  the 
woods  to  seek  his  grandmother's  per- 
mission. 'If  I  could  find  it  we  could 
leave  this  hut  with  its  dampness  and 
buy  a  piece  of  land  up  on  the  hillside,' 
he  pleaded  with  grandmother.  But  his 
grandmother  shook  her  head.  'What 
would  the  sheep  do,'  she  asked.  'Al- 
ready they  are  restless  in  the  pen, 
waiting  to  be  taken  to  the  pasture  and 
please  do  not  forget  to  take  them  to 
water  when  the  sun  shines  high  in  the 
heavens.'  Sorrowfully,  Rupert  took  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

sheep  to  the  pasture  and  at  noon  he  led 
them  to  the  brook  in  the  woods.  There 
he  sat  on  a  large  stone  by  the  stream. 
'If  I  could  only  have  had  a  chance 
to  look  for  the  King's  emerald!'  he 
thought.  Turning  his  head  to  gaze  down 
at  the  sandy  bottom  of  the  brook, 
suddenly  he  stared  into  the  water.  What 
was  it?  It  could  not  be!  He  leaped 
into  the  water,  and  his  gripping  fin- 
gers held  something  that  was  green 
with  a  slender  bit  of  gold  chain.  'The 
King's  emerald!'  he  shouted.  It  must 
have  been  flung  from  the  chain  when 
the  King  was  crossing  the  bridge,  on  the 
highway,  and  the  water  washed  it  here. 
With  shining  eyes  Rupert  ran  to  his 
grandmother's  hut  to  tell  her  of  his 
great  find.  'Bless  you,  my  boy,'  she 
said,  'but  you  never  would  have  found 
it  if  you  had  not  been  doing  your  duty, 
herding  the  sheep.'  And  Rupert  knew 
that  this  was  the  truth." 

Brethren,  we  too,  will  never  find  the 
reverence  we  seek  unless  we  do  our 
duty.  May  our  Heavenly  Father  help 
us  to  do  our  duty  in  this  respect,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Bonneville  Stake  Priesthood 
Chorus  will  now  lead  the  congrega- 
tion in  singing,  "I'll  Go  Where  You 
Want  Me  to  Go,  Dear  Lord,"  with  Elder 
David  A  Shand  conducting. 

I  suggest  the  Chorus  sing  the  verse 
and  we  will  all  join  in  the  chorus,  and 
those  listening  in,  please  join  in  with 
us.    All  arise. 


The  congregation  and  chorus  then 
sang  the  hymn,  "I'll  Go  Where  You 
Want  Me  To  Go." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  will 
now  address  us. 


87 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


■  y  brethren:  We  do  not 
know  now  how  many 
;  there  are  attending  this 
great  Priesthood  meeting, 
twenty  thousand,  twenty- 
five,  thirty  thousand.  I 
do  not  know  how  many,  but  there  are 
enough  of  us  to  be  the  leaven  that  would 
leaven  the  lump  if  each  of  us  will  come 
here  tomorrow  morning,  if  each  of  us 
who  are  listening  in,  will  go  to  our  re- 
spective places  of  worship,  tomorrow,  if 
each  of  us  will  show  the  reverence  about 
which  we  have  heard  tonight,  if  each 
of  us  will  not  visit,  will  not  talk,  will 
not  discuss  business,  it  will  not  be  many 
Sundays  until  I  think,  brethren,  we  shall 
have  the  reverence  that  has  been  talked 
about. 

I  wonder  if  we  cannot  try  it,  tomor- 
row, just  to  see  what  will  happen. 

I  have  listened  to  this  music,  tonight, 
President  McKay,  and  I  have  listened 
to  it  on  the  other  days  of  this  Confer- 
ence, we  have  had  a  new  singing  or- 
ganization each  day,  we  will  have  an- 
other tomorrow,  when  I  think  that  these 
will  be  drawn  primarily  from  this  par- 
ticular area,  and  when  I  think  that  out 
of  this  area,  perhaps  has  been  drawn 
for  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  which  is 
largely  absent,  the  whole  choir  that 
went  to  Europe,  and  then  when  I  think 
of  all  the  Church  organizations,  all 
over  this  western  country,  equally  pro- 
ficient, I  am  prepared  to  declare  that 
this  people  of  ours,  have  a  culture  in 
music  that  is  more  excellent,  more  uni- 
versal, than  any  other  group  of  people 
in  the  world.  I  firmly  believe  that. 
And  our  culture  is  not  only  in  music. 
Our  culture  is  in  literature.  Our  cul- 
ture is  manifested  in  our  public  speak- 
ing. Our  culture  is  manifested  in  the 
training  which  our  young  people  have 
and  which  they  demonstrate,  as  it  is 
reported  to  us,  to  the  astonishment  of 
the  leaders  of  the  Army  and  of  the 
Navy.  We  have  a  culture  in  art.  This 
people  of  ours  is  a  highly  cultured  peo- 
ple. We  have  a  few  rough  edges  to 
grind  down,  but  our  courtesy,  our  kind- 
ness, our  affection  one  for  the  other, 


passes  far  beyond  that  which  is  found 
among  other  peoples. 

One  reason,  I  think,  for  that  is,  among 
many  other  reasons,  that  the  Gospel 
teaches  us  to  be  respectful  one  of  an- 
other. You  know,  in  this  Church  of 
ours,  as  I  have  often  said  before,  every 
man  who  is  worthy  has  a  chance  to 
direct  and  a  chance  to  serve,  and  when 
the  man  directs  he  will  have  in  mind 
the  time  when  he  served  and  when  he 
serves,  he  will  recall  when  he  directed. 
It  builds  for  a  mutual  consideration",  a 
mutual  affection,  a  mutual  regard,  a 
mutual  fellowship,  a  mutual  brother- 
hood. 

I  thought  I  might  say  a  word  tonight 
on  two  fundamentals.  Who  are  we? 
Well,  we  are  Joneses  and  Smiths  and 
Clarks  and  all  the  rest.  Yes,  but  after 
all,  who  are  they?  And  my  mind  al- 
ways runs  back  to  the  beginning,  for 
this  earth  and  for  us,  and  the  Grand 
Council,  when  the  Father  came  down 
among  the  intelligences  that  were  or- 
ganized, and  held  this  great  Council.  I 
think  we  were  all  there.  We  are  the 
sons  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  taber- 
nacled in  the  flesh  through  his  divine 
plan,  but  that  does  not  rob  us  of  our 
divine  origin.  It  emphasizes  that  origin 
because,  save  for  the  plan  which  our 
Heavenly  Father  put  into  effect,  we  had 
not  been  here,  we  had  not  taken  on 
bodies,  we  would  still  remain,  so  far  as 
I  can  see,  in  the  state  in  which  we  were 
before  the  Grand  Council  and  its  plan, 
and  that  would  have  left  us  without  the 
destiny  which  God  marked  out  for  us. 
We  are  the  real  children  of  our  Heaven- 
ly Father. 

And  what  are  we?  We  bear  the 
Priesthood.  What  is  the  Priesthood? 
Through  it  we  exercise  certain  authori- 
ties and  powers  of  Godhood,  itself.  He 
has  not  given  us  all  of  the  powers,  and 
we  are  not  living  up  to  the  requirements 
sometimes,  some  of  us,  that  entitle  us  to 
exercise  the  powers  which  he  has  given, 
— we  would  be  a  mightier  people  if  we 
did. 

I  have  always  been  impressed  with 
the  fact  that  Adam  received  his  priest- 
hood in  the  Creation,   so  said  the 


88 

Saturday,  October  1 

Prophet,  before  the  world  was.  The 
Prophet  also  said  that  any  man  who 
had  the  responsibility  of  administering 
to  the  inhabitants  of  this  earth  like- 
wise was  ordained  in  the  Council  of 
Heaven;  and  he  further  said,  "I  suppose 
that  I  was  ordained  to  this  very  office 
in  that  Council." 

What  are  we?  We  are  the  agents  of 
God,  himself,  through  the  Holy  Order  of 
the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God.  I 
wonder  if  we  think  of  that.  I  wonder 
if  that  is  on  our  minds  when  we  deal 
with  one  another,  when  we  deal  with 
our  families,  with  our  neighbors,  and 
with  our  friends.  We  hold  these  powers 
with  which  out  of  his  abundance  God 
has  endowed  us,  that  we  might  be  able 
to  carry  on  the  mission  with  which  we 
were  charged  when  we  came  here. 

Brethren,  may  the  Lord  bless  me  and 
bless  you,  give  you  and  me  abundantly 
of  his  spirit,  that  will  enable  us,  first,  to 
recognize  what  we  are,  the  representa- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

tives  of  God  on  earth,  endowed  with  cer- 
tain of  his  powers.  Never  forget  that. 
And  next,  help  us  so  to  live  that  we 
may  enjoy  those  powers  and  exercise 
them,  and  then  we  shall  rear  our  fami- 
lies as  they  should  be  reared.  We  will 
heal  them  when  they  are  sick.  We  will 
be  protected  from  harm  and  accident 
and  disease.  We  will  have  more  hap- 
piness than  any  of  us  can  now  imagine, 
all  subject  to  the  will  of  the  Lord. 

May  God  give  us  all  of  the  blessings 
that  we  need  to  help  us  to  magnify 
our  Priesthood,  which  is  the  power  and 
the  authority  to  exercise  some  of  the 
powers  that  God,  himself,  possesses,  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  President 
Stephen  L  Richards. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


few  years  ago  I  stood  on 
the  banks  of  the  Susque- 
hanna River  at  or  near  the 
place  where  Joseph  and 
Oliver  received  under  the 
hands  of  John  the  Baptist 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  I  learned  that 
it  is  not  known  just  where  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  was  bestowed,  but 
it  is  assumed  that  it  is  in  that  vicinity. 
I  had  time  for  contemplation  in  the 
visit  to  this  historic  place,  and  I  knew, 
as  I  contemplated  the  remarkable  gift 
that  the  Lord  had  brought  in  this  Dis- 
pensation, that  the  accounts  of  Joseph 
and  Oliver  were  true;  and  I  felt  as  sure 
of  that  divine  experience  as  if  it  had 
taken  place  before  me.  I  had  not  had 
occasion  to  doubt  it  before,  and  cer- 
tainly I  have  entertained  no  doubt  about 
it  since;  and  it  has  been  my  pleasure 
and  satisfaction  throughout  the  years 
to  declare  the  authenticity  and  the  di- 
vine origin  of  the  Priesthood  of  God 
which  has  come  through  his  servants 
in  his  latter-day  work. 

I  do  not  know  how  to  give  proper 
estimate  of  that  great  power.    I  know 


that  man  by  nature  is  the  most  noble 
of  all  the  Lord's  creations.  I  know  that 
he  is  endowed  with  intelligence,  with 
reason,  with  a  conscience,  and  many  of 
the  virtues  that  we  think  so  highly  of, 
and  I  have  great  admiration  for  men 
who  develop  their  native  talents  and 
latent  endowments  to  a  point  where 
they  possess  great  intelligence  and  great 
learning,  and  equip  themselves  for  great 
service  to  our  Father's  children. 

But  I  have  reached  the  conclusion  in 
my  own  mind  that  no  man,  however 
great  his  intellectual  attainments,  how- 
ever vast  and  far-reaching  his  service 
may  be,  arrives  at  the  full  measure  of 
his  sonship  and  the  manhood  the  Lord 
intended  him  to  have,  without  the  in- 
vestiture of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  and 
with  that  appreciation,  my  brethren,  I 
have  given  thanks  to  the  Lord  all  my 
life  for  this  marvelous  blessing  which 
has  come  to  me — a  blessing  that  some 
of  my  progenitors  had,  and  a  blessing 
which  more  than  any  other  heritage  I 
want  my  sons  and  my  grandsons  and 
my  great-grandsons  to  enjoy. 

There  may  be  many  of  our  young 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


89 


men,  and  some  older  ones,  who  are  in 
this  vast  listening  congregation  to- 
night— some  who  have  not  been  with 
us  before  and  some  who  have  not  felt 
the  warmth  of  the  fellowship  that  we 
are  permitted  to  enjoy.  I  hope  I  am  not 
presumptuous  when  I  welcome  them 
into  the  bonds  of  fraternity  and  the 
brotherhood  of  the  Holy  Priesthood. 
And  I  know  of  few  things  that  you  can 
do  to  more  perfectly  bring  to  these  new- 
comers a  deep  appreciation  of  this  great 
and  wonderful  blessing  than  to  take 
them  to  your  hearts  and  your  counsels 
in  the  quorums  of  the  Holy  Priesthood. 
The  Lord  has  provided  these  quorums. 
He  has  specified  them.  He  has  given 
the  very  numbers  which  constitute  them, 
and  we  know  that  he  intends  that  they 
should  be  true  fraternities  among  our 
brethren.  Every  one  of  us  needs  the 
help  of  a  friend.  We  all  need  sym- 
pathetic understanding.  We  need  en- 
couragement. Sometimes  we  need  cor- 
rection. Within  the  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood  there  lie  the  facilities  and 
the  opportunities  for  a  brotherhood  that 
shall  help  all  within  it. 

I  would  like  to  see  the  quorums  of 
the  Priesthood  assume  a  larger  and  more 
important  place  in  the  teaching  of  the 
Gospel,  in  the  nurturing  of  our  young 
men  and  boys,  and  in  their  prepara- 


tion for  the  great  work  of  the  latter 
days.  I  believe  that  they  are  organiza- 
tions which  the  Lord  himself  designed 
to  bless  all  of  our  brethren. 

Now  of  course  many  things  might  be 
said  about  the  opportunities  that  these 
quorums  afford.  Will  you,  my  breth- 
ren, give  to  these  groups  to  which  you 
belong,  these  sacred  societies,  your  al- 
legiance, your  love  and  devotion,  and 
your  help.  The  Lord  needs  his  Priest- 
hood to  carry  forward  his  work.  I  do 
not  know  that  any  of  us  can  envision 
what  the  coming  of  the  Savior  will  be 
like,  but  I  have  always  felt  that  when 
he  does  come  he  will  require  the  aid 
of  his  seravnts  in  perfecting  the  King- 
dom, and  that  he  will  call  upon  his 
Priesthood  in  preference  to  any  others 
to  consummate  his  glorious  work.  I 
would  like  to  be  ready  to  serve  ac- 
ceptably to  him  when  that  day  comes, 
and  I  know  you  would  also,  so  I  ask 
the  Lord  to  bless  us  that  we  may  so 
devote  ourselves  to  the  great  Cause  to 
which  we  have  the  honor  to  belong, 
to  so  uphold  the  standards  of  righteous- 
ness, to  so  proclaim  the  Gospel  of  our 
Lord,  and  to  so  live  as  to  be  worthy  to 
be  called  and  chosen  now  and  when 
he  comes,  and  that  is  my  prayer  for 
all  of  us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


e  have  received  a  message 
reading  as  follows:  "Gath- 
ered in  San  Fernando  Stake 
nearly  completed  stake  cen- 
ter are  251  boys,  456  men, 
or  a  total  attendance  of 
707." — James  D.  Pratt,  First  Counselor, 
Stake  Presidency. 

Later  in  the  Conference  perhaps  we 
can  give  you  a  total  report. 

Much  has  been  said,  brethren,  dur- 
ing the  Conference  about  the  favorable 
reports  made  in  the  public  press,  com- 
pliments paid  by  government  and  state 
officials,  to  the  leaders  of  the  Choir  in 
Europe,  to  the  excellency  of  the  Choir, 
paying  compliments  to  the  Church,  etc., 
and  every  word  spoken  has  been  merited. 
Some  might  feel  that  such  praise  will 
be  dangerous.  Let  me  tell  you  that 
nothing  has  been  said  about  the  efforts 


of  the  Adversary  coordinately  with  these 
words  of  praise. 

When  permission  was  granted  by  state 
and  local  officials  to  erect  the  Swiss 
Temple  near  Bern,  notice  was  given 
that  such  permission  had  been  granted, 
and  the  request  made  that  if  anybody 
had  any  objection,  let  him  so  express 
himself.  High  poles  were  erected  on 
the  site,  showing  the  height  of  the  main 
building. 

Well,  there  was  opposition  led  by  a 
minister.  A  certain  time  elapsed — for 
other  objections.  Finally  the  authorita- 
tive council  met  and  decided  that  the 
application  to  erect  a  temple  be  granted. 

This  minister  met  again  and  said, 
"I  protest  it."  "Oh  yes,"  said  the  chair- 
man, or  leader  of  that  group,  "but  you 
did  not  put  your  objections  in  writ- 
mg. 


90 

Saturday,  October  I 

"Well,"  said  the  minister,  "I  did  not 
know  that  was  necessary." 

"You  are  too  late  now.  Permission  is 
granted." 

He  resorted  to  the  press,  and  the  most 
scurrilous  articles  appeared,  revamping 
all  the  old  falsehoods,  accusing  the 
people  of  everything.  But  they  paid 
little  attention  to  it.  I  was  surprised 
to  learn  recently  that  the  temple  stands 
just  across  the  street  from  the  town  in 
which  that  man  preaches. 

Down  in  South  America  in  Argen- 
tina, favorable  reports  were  given  re- 
garding the  Church  and  its  activities. 
One  paper,  and  I  will  not  mention  the 
church  it  represents,  came  out  with  scur- 
rilous articles.  On  the  following  day 
the  public  press  announced  that  Presi- 
dent Peron  had  received  officials  of  the 
Church.  The  next  issue  of  the  scurri- 
lous sheets  modified  its  attack,  and  later 
ceased  entirely. 

Right  here  at  home  the  Adversary  is 
at  work.  Some  of  you  have  received 
accusations  that  the  Church  has  aposta- 
tized, and  that  Cultists  doctrine  should 
be  accepted. 

Well,  the  best  way  to  treat  these 
lies  and  scandalous  reports  is  so  to  live 
that  our  actions  will  prove  their  falsity, 
and  that  is  what  we  are  trying  to  do. 
There  are  "fleas,"  and  we  shall  have  to 
treat  them  as  such,  I  suppose.  We  shall 
always  have  people  attacking  us.  As 
long  as  the  Adversary  to  truth  is  free 
to  exercise  dominion  in  this  world,  we 
are  going  to  have  attacks,  and  the  only 
way  to  meet  those  attacks  is  to  live 
the  Gospel. 

Now,  I  mention  this — and  I  could  say 
a  great  deal  more — to  put  you  breth- 
ren on  your  guard.  It  is  learned  that  in 
some  cases  excommunicants  are  moving 
into  wards  where  they  are  not  known, 
and  are  being  or  have  been  used  in 
teaching  classes.  Bishops  and  branch 
presidents  should  not  use  anyone  in 
their  various  organizations  until  the 
bishops  and  branch  presidents  have  re- 
ceived their  membership  records,  or  at 
least  know  of  their  worthiness.  The  im- 
portance of  that  is  evident.  We  do  not 
want  people  who  are  prompted  by  the 
spirit  of  the  Adversary,  the  spirit  of  an 
apostate,  to  be  poisoning  the  minds  of 
our  youth.  The  latter  are  too  precious, 
and  they  are  in  our  keeping. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

There  is  true  philosophy  in  that  old 
saying  of  David  Harrum:  "A  certain 
amount  of  fleas  is  good  for  a  dog.  It 
keeps  him  from  worrying  that  he  is  a 
dog."  Well,  the  Adversary  will  see  to 
it  that  we  have  plenty  of  these  fleas 
as  they  exercise  their  pestilential  acts  in 
trying  to  undo  the  good  that  the  Church 
is  doing.  I  shall  be  glad  and  thankful 
when  our  friends  who  speak  well  of  us, 
papers  who  publish  the  truth,  will  be 
more  numerous  than  they  are  today, 
and  it  is  our  duty  so  to  live  that  the 
people  will  have  to  speak  well  as  they 
had  to  speak  well  of  the  excellency  of 
our  Choir  and  the  concerts  given  in 
Europe. 

Thank  you  brethren  who  have  spoken 
to  us  on  the  great  principle  of  Rever- 
ence. 

A  few  weeks  ago,  with  some  compan- 
ions, I  had  the  pleasure,  through  the 
kindness  of  A.  Hamer  Reiser,  of  visiting 
Stoke  Poges  where  Thomas  Gray  wrote 
that  great  poem,  "Elegy  Written  in  a 
Country  Churchyard."  Of  course  I  had 
in  mind  renewing  the  interesting  pas- 
sages in  that  poem  and  visiting  for  the 
first  time  the  spot  where  he  is  buried. 
He  died  about  1871,  as  I  remember. 
As  we  rode  out  there  we  recalled: 

"The  boast  of  heraldry,  the  pomp  of 
power, 

And  all  that  beauty,  all  that  wealth 

e'er  gave, 

Awaits  alike  th'  inevitable  hour: — 
The  paths  of  glory  lead  but  to  the 
grave." 

Then  that  familiar  quotation: 

"Full  many  a  gem  of  purest  ray  serene 
The  dark  unfathomed  caves  of  ocean 
bear: 

Full  many  a  flower  is  born  to  blush  un- 
seen, 

And  waste  its  sweetness  on  the  desert 
air." 

Those  two  sublime  stanzas  follow  his 
tribute  to  the  humble  of  Stoke  Poges. 
Those  who  lie  underneath  the  old  elms, 
still  standing,  "some  mute  inglorious 
Milton  here  may  rest,"  you  remember. 

I  saw  something  else  in  that  old 
Churchyard  that  is  appropriate  tonight. 
By  the  way,  we  should  never  know  any- 
thing about  that  if  it  had  not  been  for 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


91 


Thomas  Gray.  We  should  never  know 
anything  much  about  Stratford-on-Avon 
had  it  not  been  for  Shakespeare;  noth- 
ing about  Ayr  had  it  not  been  for  Bobby 
Burns.  These  great  men  have  immor- 
talized those  humble  places.  Let  us  not 
look  with  disrespect  upon  these  great 
leaders  in  the  literary  world.  They 
make  life  worth  living  and  give  us  the 
best  in  the  world. 

Note  this  about  the  theme  tonight. 
As  we  entered  the  old  Stoke  Poges 
Church  built  in  1086  by  the  Normans, 
my  attention  was  called  to  a  plaque  on 
the  door  upon  which  was  written  the 
following:  "Our  courteous  Lord  wills 
that  we  should  be  as  homely  with  him 
as  heart  may  think  or  soul  desire,  but 
let  us  beware  that  we  take  not  this 
homeliness  so  recklessly  as  to  leave 
reverence  and  courtesy."  I  do  not  know 
when  it  was  written,  but  I  leave  it  with 
you  tonight  as  coming  from  somebody 
200  years  ago. 

Reverence  embraces  regard,  deference, 
honor,  and  esteem.  Without  some  de- 
gree of  it  there  would  be  no  courtesy, 
no  gentility,  no  consideration  of  other's 
feelings  or  of  other's  rights.  It  is  the 
fundamental  virtue  in  religion.  Rever- 
ence is  one  of  the  signs  of  strength,  ir- 
reverence one  of  the  surest  indications 
of  weakness.  No  man  will  rise  high 
who  jeers  at  sacred  things.  The  fine 
loyalties  of  life  must  be  reverenced,  or 
they  will  be  foresworn  in  the  day  of 
trial. 

We  walked  recently  through  those 
old  halls  of  Westminster  Abbey.  Every- 
body spoke  in  whispers.  In  one  place — 
I  have  never  before  visited  it — we  were 
asked  to  take  off  our  shoes.  It  was 
more  to  save  the  old  floor,  though,  than 
to  pay  deference  or  reverence  to  the 
room. 

When  Brother  Cannon  and  I  went 
round  the  world  we  visited  some  of  the 
temples  of  Buddha  and  Shinto.  We  had 
to  take  our  shoes  off  before  we  entered. 
We  are  not  going  to  worship  houses, 
and  we  certainly  do  not  wish  to  vio- 
late the  command  of  God  to  worship 
images,  but  we  do  want  to  be  courteous, 
deferential,  reverent,  when  we  enter 
the  presence  of  our  Lord,  to  whom  all 
should  give  reverence.  If  you  were  in- 
vited to  go  before  a  Governor-general, 
before  one  of  Royalty,  you  would  pre- 


pare in  dress  and  in  attitude  so  as  to 
appear  properly  in  his  presence.  Well, 
our  houses  are  dedicated  by  the  Priest- 
hood, and  our  chapels  are  consecrated 
for  the  worship  of  the  Lord,  and  we 
give  them  over  to  him.  It  is  not  just  a 
mere  act,  and  I  promise  you,  my  breth- 
ren, that  the  Lord  will  be  there  and  we 
shall  feel  his  Presence,  if  we  approach 
him  properly.  That  is  a  fact  because 
he  lives,  and  this  is  his  Church,  and 
you  are  his  servants  by  divine  right.  I 
know  the  world  thinks  we  are  unrea- 
sonable, fantastic  in  our  ideas  when  we 
tell  them  that  there  is  no  other  au- 
thorized Church,  but  that  is  true.  The 
Priesthood  came  direct  from  our  Lord 
and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  the 
great  High  Priest,  and  he  authorized 
Peter,  James  and  John,  on  whom  he  be- 
stowed that  Priesthood,  to  bestow  it 
upon  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  and 
John  the  Baptist,  who  held  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  to  bestow  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood upon  Joseph  Smith.  Joseph  Smith 
did  not  take  it;  it  came  direct,  and  you 
brethren,  everyone  present,  can  trace 
your  ordination,  probably  within  five 
steps,  right  back  to  the  Savior  himself. 

When  we  go  into  the  chapel,  let  us 
go  in  there  realizing  that  we  are  in  the 
presence  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and 
we  sit  and  commune  reverently  from 
within.  Happiness  is  from  within.  It 
must  be,  as  one  of  the  brethren  said, 
an  individual  matter.  What  right  have 
I  to  go  into  a  chapel  and  speak  in  loud 
tones  and  disturb  somebody  who  is  com- 
muning, probably  praying  in  his  heart? 

Oh  my  brethren,  presidents  of  stakes, 
bishoprics  of  wards,  God  bless  you  in 
your  leadership,  in  your  responsibility 
to  guide,  to  bless,  to  comfort.  Many  of 
our  people  need  comfort.  Lead  them 
to  come  to  you  in  confession.  Guide 
them  to  go  to  the  Lord,  and  seek  in- 
spiration so  to  live  that  they  may  rise 
above  the  low  and  the  mean  and  live 
in  the  spiritual. 

This  has  been  a  glorious  Conference. 
It  is  a  glorious  Conference,  and  tonight 
is  an  epoch-making  event  in  the  history 
of  the  Church.  God  bless  every  man 
assembled  tonight  who  has  come  with 
his  heart  and  soul  filled  with  the  de- 
sire to  come  closer  to  our  Heavenly 
Father,  filled  with  the  desire  to  get  a 
stronger  testimony  that  our  Lord  and 


92 

Saturday,  October  1 

Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  stands  at  the  head 
of  the  Church.  There  is  no  question 
about  it. 

God  bless  the  man  who  sneaked  in 
here  to  find  something  to  publish  to 
weaken  the  faith  of  those  who  might  be 
weak.  May  he  repent  and  be  led  to 
know  the  truth. 

I  bless  you,  my  brethren,  with  the 
power  that  the  Lord  has  given  us  to 
bless,  that  from  this  hour  we  go  forth 
with  renewed  determination  to  discharge 
our  duties  more  faithfully,  more  suc- 
cessfully under  the  inspiration  of  God 
than  ever  before,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

I  have  just  been  handed  the  informa- 
tion that  there  is  a  total  of  22,004  in 
assembly,  and  12  more  places  to  hear 
from. 

To  you  brethren  of  Bonneville  Stake 
we  express  our  sincere  gratitude  for  your 
having  practiced  to  render  the  service 
you  have  rendered  so  inspirationally 
tonight — Brother  Shand,  the  presidency 
of  the  stake,  and  all  of  you.  We  are 
proud  of  you,  and  as  President  Clark 
has  said  there  is  no  other  body  in  the 
world  with  so  many  singers  who  like 
music  as  you. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  O09 

What  a  feast  we  have  had  today  and 
yesterday,  from  the  German  Choir  and 
those  young  people  today,  and  now  just 
one  stake  tonight,  with  the  string  in- 
strument accompaniment.  In  behalf  of 
the  22,000,  (and  12  more  places  to  hear 
from),  we  thank  you  from  the  bottom 
of  our  hearts. 

The  Chorus,  under  the  direction  of 
Brother  Shand,  will  now  sing  "Hosanna 
Anthem,"  and  Elder  George  Z.  Apo- 
shian,  president  of  the  Wilford  Stake, 
will  offer  the  benediction. 

Just  a  moment  please  about  tomorrow 
morning.  There  will  be  a  broadcast, 
but  the  Choir  will  not  be  in  their  seats, 
of  course.  You  may  hear  it  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle and  on  the  air  from  9:30  to 
10:00  a.m.  This  record  was  made  in 
Zurich,  Switzerland.  Those  of  you  who 
enter  the  building  after  9:30  are  asked 
to  do  so  quietly,  and  without  conver- 
sation, so  that  visitors  assembled  here 
may  hear  the  recorded  broadcast  undis- 
turbed. 


The  Chorus  sang  the  "Hosanna  An- 
them." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
President  George  Z.  Aposhian,  of  the 
Wilford  Stake. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  Sunday  morning  session  of  the 
Conference  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle at  10  o'clock. 

However,  prior  to  the  commencement 
of  the  Conference  session  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  was 
presented  as  follows: 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN 
BROADCAST 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  was 
recorded  in  the  Grosser  Tonhalle-Saal 
in  Zurich,  Switzerland,  on  September 
14,  1955,  and  was  presented  from  9:30 
to  10:00  a.m.  Sunday,  October  2,  1955, 
through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of 
KSL  and  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 


System's  network,  throughout  the  United 
States.   The  broadcast  was  as  follows: 

(The  organ  played  "As  the  Dew  from 
Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal  the 
Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the  hymn, 
"Gently  Raise  The  Sacred  Strain,"  sing- 
ing the  words  to  the  end  of  the  second 
line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse  for 
announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  with  music  and  the  spoken  word 
as  the  Tabernacle  Choir  continues  its 
European  concert  tour. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its 
affiliated  stations  bring  you  today's 
presentation,  transcribed,  from  the 
Grosser  Tonhalle-Saal  in  Zurich,  Swit- 
zerland, with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  con- 
ducting the  Tabernacle  Choir,  Frank 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  93 


Asper,  Tabernacle  Organist,  and  the 
spoken  word  by  Richard  Evans. 

First  today  is  a  stirring  hymn  with 
the  music  of  William  Croft  and  the 
words  of  Isaac  Watts:  "O  God  Our 
Help  In  Ages  Past,  our  hope  for  years 
to  come.  Our  shelter  from  the  stormy 
blast  and  our  eternal  home." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "O  God  Our  Help, 
in  Ages  Past." — Arr.  by  Mueller.) 

Announcer:  With  Frank  Asper  at  the 
Grosser  Tonhalle-Saal  Organ  in  Zurich, 
Switzerland,  we  move  into  a  stately  re- 
ligious march  movement  by  Karg-Elert: 
"Now  Thank  We  All  our  God." 

(Organ  selection:  "Now  Thank  We 
All  our  God."— Karg-Elert.) 

Announcer:  The  Choir  continues  with 
a  song  of  the  peace  and  quiet  of  a 
hallowed  place,  a  song  by  Evan 
Stephens;  "Holiness  becometh  the  house 
of  the  Lord,  house  of  prayer,  house  of 
song,  house  of  the  holy  word  .  .  .  Hushed 
be  the  footfall  and  gentle  the  voice  .  .  . 
with  quiet,  contentment,  and  peace  .  .  . 
holiness  becometh  the  house  of  the 
Lord." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Holiness  Becometh 
the  House  of  the  Lord." — Stephens.) 

Announcer:  From  the  Grosser  Ton- 
halle-Saal Organ  in  Zurich,  Switzerland 
we  hear  another  quietly  thoughtful 
mood  and  melody  as  Frank  Asper  pre- 
sents a  song  without  words  by  Joseph 
Bonnet. 

(Organ  selection:  "Romance  sans 
Paroles." — Bonnet.) 

Announcer:  In  the  pressures  and  im- 
patience and  thoughtlessness  of  life,  our 
relationships  with  others  are  often  likely 
to  be  less  considerate  than  they  should 
be — and  all  of  us  it  seems,  are  almost 
sure  to  have  our  feelings  hurt  from  time 
to  time — and  often,  unthinkingly,  are 
likely  to  hurt  the  feelings  of  others 
also.  Sometimes  the  consequences  of 
hurt  feelings,  of  personal  offense,  have 
been  appallingly  serious,  far  out  of  pro- 
portion to  the  first  cause,  as  men  have 
stubbornly  misunderstood  one  another 
and  families  and  others  implacably  have 
fought  and  feuded  (like  Shakespeare's 
Capulets  and  Montagues),  and  the  lives 
of  the  innocent  have  been  blighted  (like 
Romeo  and   Juliet),   and  irreparable 


damage  has  been  done — because  some- 
one has  had  his  pride  injured,  because 
someone  has  had  his  feelings  hurt.  It 
is  true  that  people  are  often  thought- 
less, often  inconsiderate,  blunt,  un- 
diplomatic, sometimes  cruel,  and  often 
deal  with  others  the  wrong  way.  But 
men  being  as  they  are,  imperfect  as  they 
are,  so  long  as  we  live  with  one  an- 
other, we  are  sometimes  going  to  have 
our  feelings  hurt,  even  when  others 
don't  know  they  have  hurt  us.  There 
likely  isn't  one  of  us  who  hasn't  been 
hurt  (and  likely  there  isn't  one  of  us 
who  hasn't  hurt  others,  whether  we 
know  it  or  not).  But  if  too  easily  we 
assume  a  martyr's  role,  if  we  nurture 
and  magnify  our  hurts,  if  we  withdraw 
ourselves  from  fellowship,  from  activity, 
and  sulk  and  brood  and  let  our  injuries 
fester,  we  do  serious  damage  to  our- 
selves, our  families,  our  friends,  and  to 
the  causes  we  might  have  served.  As 
in  the  healing  process  following  some 
kinds  of  surgery,  so  hurts  of  the  heart, 
hurt  pride,  and  injured  feelings  can 
sooner  be  healed  if  we  don't  nurse  them 
too  long,  if  we  are  sooner  up,  and  out, 
and  active.  Life  goes  on  whether  we  go 
with  it  or  not,  and  sitting  aside  in  hurt 
silence  when  there  are  things  to  be  done 
is  one  unfortunate  way  of  letting  life 
waste  away.  We  do  ourselves  great 
damage  by  languishing  too  long  in  in- 
jured inactivity.  We  commend  once 
more  these  words  recalled  from  an  un- 
identified author:  "In  the  very  depths 
of  your  soul,  dig  a  grave;  let  it  be  as 
some  forgotten  spot  to  which  no  path 
leads;  and  there  in  the  eternal  silence 
bury  the  wrongs  which  you  have  suf- 
fered. Your  heart  will  feel  as  if  a  load 
had  fallen  from  it,  and  a  divine  peace 
will  come  to  abide  with  you."* 


"■Revised 

(Organ  selection:  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour." — Lowry.) 

Announcer:  With  Dr.  Asper  at  the 
Grosser  Tonhalle-Saal  Organ  we  have 
heard  a  hymn  tune  by  Robert  Lowry, 
which  is  titled  from  the  words  of  An- 
nie S.  Hawkes:  "I  need  Thee  every  hour, 
most  gracious  Lord;  no  tender  voice  like 
thine  can  peace  afford  ...  I  Need  Thee 
Every  Hour." 


94 

Sunday,  October  2 

And  now,  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sings 
from  this  impressive  Swiss  setting  a 
song  by  Percy  Fletcher,  a  song  of  the 
quiet  of  closing  day  with  the  consol- 
ing, strengthening  words  of  Samuel 
Longfellow:  "Again,  as  evening's  shad- 
ow falls,  we  gather  in  these  hallow'd 
walls:  And  evening  hymn  and  evening 
pray'r — Rise  mingling  with  the  hallow'd 
air.  May  struggling  hearts,  that  seek 
release,  Here  find  the  rest  of  God's  own 
peace,  and  strengthen'd  here  by  hymn 
and  pray'r,  Lay  down  the  burden  and 
the  care.  O  God  of  Light,  to  Thee  we 
bow;  Within  all  shadows  standest  Thou, 
Give  deeper  calm  than  night  can  bring; 
Give  sweeter  songs  than  lips  can  sing." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Again  as  Evening's 
Shadow  Falls."— Fletcher.) 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Abide  With  Me." 
—Monk.) 

Announcer:  Abide  with  me,  fast  falls 
the  eventide,  the  darkness  deepens,  Lord 
with  me  abide.    When  other  helpers 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

fail  and  comforts  flee,  help  of  the  help- 
less, O  abide  with  me. 

Once  more  we  leave  you  until  another 
seven  days  of  life  have  swiftly  come 
and  gone  again.  May  peace  be  with 
you,  this  day — and  always. 

This  concludes  another  presentation, 
continuing  the  27th  year  of  this  tradi- 
tional broadcast,  brought  to  you  by  CBS 
Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations,  tran- 
scribed, from  the  Grosser  Tonhalle- 
Saal  in  Zurich,  Switzerland,  and  pro- 
duced by  Radio  Station  KSL. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  with  its  three  hundred 
seventy-five  voices.  Frank  Asper  was  at 
the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by  Rich- 
ard Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  once  more  as  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  concludes  its  European  concert 
tour. 


SUNDAY  MORNING  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  SESSION 


At  the  conclusion  of  the  Choir  and 
Organ  Broadcast  the  regular  session  of 
the  Conference  convened  with  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay,  who  was  pre- 
siding and  conducting  the  services, 
making  the  following  introductory  re- 
marks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  thousands  assembled  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle in  Salt  Lake  City  this  morning 
have  just  listened  to  the  weekly  broad- 
cast of  the  Choir,  but  this  time  by 
transmission  from  Zurich,  Switzerland 
— a  good  illustration  of  how  we  may 
utilize  modern  inventions  and  discov- 
eries for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 

There  are  thousands  assembled  not 
only  in  the  Tabernacle  and  on  the 
Tabernacle  Grounds,  but  in  the  Assem- 
bly Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and  in  other 
buildings  throughout  the  west.  Last  eve- 
ning we  had  a  large  Priesthood  Meet- 
ing, one  of  the  largest  ever  held  in  the 
history  of  the  Church,  if  not  the  largest. 
There  are  12  meeting  places  yet  to  hear 
from,  and  the  total  attendance  as  given 


from  those  who  reported  was  over 
22,000.  They  met  in  Arizona,  Califor- 
nia, Colorado,  Idaho,  Nevada,  Oregon, 
Washington  and  Wyoming.  As  an  il- 
lustration of  the  success,  here  is  one 
message  from  California  which  came 
last  evening: 

"Gathered  in  San  Fernando  Stake  at 
nearly  completed  stake  center  are  251 
boys  and  456  men,  or  a  total  attend- 
ance of  707."  That  came  from  the  first 
counselor  in  the  stake  presidency,  and 
another  message  from  California,  at 
Oakland:  "Over  300  Priesthood  mem- 
bers Berkeley  and  Oakland  Stakes  deep- 
ly grateful  for  opportunity  enjoying 
Priesthood  conference  with  you.  Recep- 
tion over  closed  circuit  wonderful." 
That  is  from  the  high  council. 

From  Compton:  "Enjoying  the  Con- 
ference. Reception  very  fine.  182  mem- 
bers of  the  Priesthood  attending." — Los 
Angeles  Stake  High  Council.  Another 
from  the  high  council  in  Colma,  Cali- 
fornia: "120  Priesthood  members  hear- 
ing Conference  in  San  Francisco  Stake 
House."  We  are  grateful  for  the  inspi- 
ration of  last  evening's  meeting. 


PRESIDENT  D 

The  speakers  were  President  Thomas 
W.  Muir,  president  of  the  Emigration 
Stake;  President  William  J.  Critchlow, 
president  of  South  Ogden  Stake,  both 
of  whom  treated  the  subject,  "How  to 
Attain  and  Maintain  Better  Order  and 
More  Reverence  in  Houses  of  Worship." 
They  were  followed  by  each  of  the 
members  of  the  First  Presidency — Presi- 
dent Clark,  President  Richards  and 
President  McKay. 

The  Bonneville  Stake  Priesthood 
Chorus,  under  the  direction  of  Elder 
David  A.  Shand,  furnished  the  music, 
and  it  was  most  inspirational.  They 
were  accompanied  by  a  string  orchestra, 
which  added  to  the  impressiveness  of 
their  excellent  singing. 

These  services  and  the  services  this 
afternoon  will  be  broadcast  in  the  Asr 
sembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  as 
usual,  and  also  over  16  radio  stations 
in  Utah,  Idaho,  Nevada,  Colorado,  Cali- 
fornia, Arizona,  and  Texas. 

We  have  a  telegram  here  from  one 
of  the  brethren  in  California  saying  that 
they  would  like  to  have  the  people  in 
California  understand  or  learn  of  the 
passing  of  Brother  Louis  A.  Thomas, 
who  has  served  as  a  Church  architect 
in  Southern  California  for  the  past  30 
years.  It  does  not  say  when  his  funeral 
will  be,  but  you  who  are  listening  in 
California  may  obtain  the  information 
necessary.  We  express  our  sympathy 
to  the  family. 

The  names  of  all  the  stations  over 
which  these  services  will  be  broadcast 
and  telecast  have  already  been  an- 
nounced to  the  radio  and  television 
audiences.    Some  of  you  heard  it. 

We  again  express  deep  appreciation 
to  these  various  radio  and  television 
stations  for  their  courtesy  in  making 
available  their  time  and  facilities  for 
these  broadcasts.  In  behalf  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  who  are  very  ap- 
preciative, we  thank  you. 

We  extend  greetings  this  morning 
to  leaders  in  educational  circles,  and  in 
our  nation,  and  in  the  state.  These 
men  and  women  are  influential,  and 
we  appreciate  sympathetic  cooperation 
and  help  in  time  of  need.  Senator 


V1D  O.  McKAY  95 

Watkins  we  know  is  here;  Congress- 
man H.  Aldous  Dixon;  Congressman 
William  A.  Dawson;  Mayor  Earl  J. 
Glade;  Dr.  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson  of  the 
Brigham  Young  University;  Dr.  Chase 
of  the  Utah  State  Agricultural  College. 
I  do  not  see  Dr.  Olpin.  Yes,  he  is  here. 
There  are  plenty  of  hands  to  say  you 
are.  Also  present  are  Superintendent 
Lynn  Bennion;  Brother  Lamont  Toron- 
to, and  others.  To  all,  listening  in  from 
all  the  stakes,  and  those  assembled 
here,  we  extend  a  hearty  welcome.  You 
will  be  blessed,  I  am  sure,  as  we  have 
been  in  previous  sessions. 

We  desire  to  express  appreciation  for 
these  lovely  flowers  from  Hawaii,  and 
from  the  Wilford  Stake. 

The  Choir  singing  for  this  morning's 
session,  as  you  note,  is  composed  of 
Combined  Singing  Mothers  Choruses 
from  21  stakes  in  the  Bannock  and  East 
Idaho  Regions,  with  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  conducting,  and 
Brother  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Combined  Singing  Mothers  Choruses 
singing:  "How  Happy  All  They  That 
Love  the  Lord."  The  opening  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Edwin  Alan 
Pettit,  president  of  the  Bakersfield  Stake. 


The  Combined  Singing  Mothers 
Choruses  sang  "How  Happy  All  They 
That  Love  the  Lord." 

Elder  Edwin  Alan  Pettit,  President  of 
the  Bakersfield  Stake,  offered  the  open- 
ing prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Edwin  Alan  Pettit,  president  of  Bakers- 
field Stake. 

The  Combined  Singing  Mothers 
Choruses  will  now  sing,  "Lord,  Hear 
Our  Prayer,"  conducted  by  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen. 

Following  the  Choir  singing,  we  shall 
hear  from  President  Stephen  L  Richards 
of  the  First  Presidency. 


The  Combined  Singing  Mothers 
Choruses  sang  "Lord,  Hear  Our  Prayer." 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  2  Third  Day 

PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


y  dear  brethren  and  sisters: 
I  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the 

'  i  inspiration  of  this  great 
.!  '  conference,  coming  to  us 
I  ,  •  from  lovely  singing,  part 
'••  of  which  we  have  just 
listened  to,  and  from  the  lofty,  inspira- 
tional messages  of  our  brethren.  I  hum- 
bly pray  that  I  may  contribute  a  little 
to  the  appreciation  of  the  great  work 
in  which  we  are  engaged  and  to  its  ad- 
vancement in  the  world.  I  think  the 
missionary  work  of  the  restored  Church 
of  our  Lord  has  received  major  emphasis 
at  this  conference.  The  extended  and 
outstanding  labors  of  our  beloved  Presi- 
dent; the  dedication  of  a  European 
temple  with  the  prospect  of  others  to 
follow;  the  history-making  tour  of  the 
choir  over  the  seas  to  foreign  lands;  the 
organization  of  new  missions  on  the 
other  side  of  the  world,  and  the  ex- 
tended visits  of  existing  missions  by  our 
brethren  of  the  Twelve,  have  all  served 
to  arrest  and  focus  our  attention  on  mis- 
sionary work  to  an  extent  probably 
never  exceeded  in  the  history  of  the 
Church,  except  perhaps  in  its  early  be- 
ginning when  such  a  vast  proportion 
of  the  means  and  energies  of  the  people 
were  devoted  to  the  carrying  of  the  gos- 
pel to  foreign  lands. 

What  an  encouragement,  and  what 
rejoicing  this  has  brought  to  all  those 
who  love  the  Lord's  work  of  the  latter 
days!  On  every  hand  are  heard  ex- 
pressions indicative  of  the  gratification 
and  joy  of  the  people  in  these  accom- 
plishments. They  voice  their  love  for 
and  admiration  of  the  President,  their 
jubilation  over  the  successful  trip  of  the 
choir,  and  their  expectation  of  great 
results  to  follow. 

I  have  thought,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  it  might  be  appropriate  here 
today  to  propound  this  question:  How 
may  all  this  just  pride,  admiration,  re- 
joicing and  enthusiasm  be  translated 
into  effective  service  and  devotion  for 
the  continued  expansion  of  our  Father's 
kingdom  here  in  the  earth? 

Perhaps  a  general  answer  to  this 
question  might  suffice — to  live  right- 
eously and  serve  faithfully — but  I  think 


a  breakdown  of  that  answer  might  be 
of  some  value  to  us. 

The  first  specific  item  which  I  shall 
mention  is  the  need  for  more  people  to 
serve  in  these  missionary  callings. 

Fortunately,  after  deliberations  and 
negotiations  covering  a  long  period  of 
time,  we  have  some  clarification  and 
consequent  liberalization  in  the  calling 
of  our  young  men  to  serve  as  foreign 
missionaries.  A  foreign  missionary  is 
one  who  serves  outside  the  stake  where 
he  lives.  It  has  long  been  the  practice 
of  the  Church  to  utilize  young  men  for 
this  service.  I  wish  here  to  express  my 
own  gratitude  and  that  of  the  officers 
and  membership  of  the  Church  for  the 
young  men  who  have  so  dutifully,  will- 
ingly, and  faithfully  responded  to  their 
missionary  calls.  What  a  glorious  and 
admirable  segment  of  our  society  are 
these  young  men  of  the  Church!  They 
are  the  pride  of  the  communities  from 
which  they  come. 

Young  men  are  well  adapted  to  mis- 
sionary service.  They  have  the  physical 
strength  and  stamina;  they  have  the 
mental  alertness;  they  have  the  adapta- 
bility and  the  buoyance  of  youth,  and 
when  properly  conditioned  for  the  serv- 
ice, they  have  the  spiritual  receptiveness 
to  bring  them  a  firmness  of  conviction 
and  testimony  that  becomes  contagious 
to  those  whom  they  serve. 

The  innate  goodness  of  these  young 
men  shines  from  their  very  counte- 
nances, as  they  visit  the  homes  of  the 
people. 

It  has  been  my  observation  that  al- 
though young,  these  missionaries  quick- 
ly attain  a  maturity  in  thought,  judg- 
ment, and  wisdom  that  is  without 
parallel  for  those  of  their  age.  As 
ministers  of  religion  they  are  fre- 
quently confronted  with  important 
problems  and  situations  of  vital  nature 
to  those  concerned.  They  handle  or- 
ganizational matters;  they  deal  with 
delicate  domestic  problems;  they  give 
fatherly  counsel  to  young  and  old  alike; 
and  they  bless  with  a  sagacity  and 
power  far  beyond  the  maturity  of  their 
years.  You  know  what  it  is,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  which  enables  them  so 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


97 


successfully  to  perform  these  labors  of 
wisdom  and  love. 

Some  understandings  have  recently 
been  reached  which  enable  us  to  call 
to  the  missionary  service  more  of  our 
young  men.  We  need  them.  We  can 
use  them  to  great  advantage.  We  hope 
bishops,  presidents  of  stakes,  and  presi- 
dents of  missions,  will  diligently  search 
out  those  who  are  eligible  for  this  dis- 
tinguished service.  The  young  men  do 
not  call  themselves.  No  one  does  in 
this  Church.  All  are  responsive  to  the 
appointment  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 
which  presides  over  all.  So  I  appeal  to 
the  presiding  officers  to  make  a  dili- 
gent search  and  make  recommendations, 
and  I  appeal  to  all  who  receive  calls 
to  respond  with  glad  hearts  to  embrace 
the  glorious  opportunities  of  mission- 
ary service. 

Missionary  service  is  strenuous.  Its 
success  depends  on  energy  and  intelli- 
gent devotion  to  its  ideals  and  pro- 
cedures. Good  health  is  a  requisite  for 
mission  eligibility,  at  least  in  the  for- 
eign missionary  service.  Our  mission- 
aires  travel  in  pairs.  No  one  goes  alone. 
One  sick  or  disabled  man  detains  an- 
other from  his  work  and  often  retards 
the  performance  of  important  responsi- 
bilities. So,  while  we  cannot  insure 
against  unforeseeable  sickness  and  acci- 
dent in  the  mission  field,  we  must  take 
every  precaution  to  assure  physical  fit- 
ness and  good  health  before  departure 
on  these  assignments. 

If  any  of  our  people  suffer  disap- 
pointment because  of  our  requirements 
for  good  health  as  a  requisite  to  the 
foreign  missionary  calling,  we  hope  they 
may  take  a  measure  of  comfort  in  the 
realization  that  the  missionary  work  to 
be  accomplished  is  immeasurable,  and 
that  it  is  just  as  important  to  bring  the 
gospel  to  their  next  door  neighbors  as 
to  one  of  our  Father's  children  ten  thou- 
sand miles  away. 

I  cannot  pass  by  without  mention  of 
some  phases  of  the  preparation  for  our 
missionaries.  We  have  had  a  little 
difficulty  in  recent  years  in  convincing 
some  public  officials  that  our  young  men 
possess  the  qualifications  to  be  classi- 
fied as  ministers  of  religion.  Legally 
now  the  point  is  pretty  well  cleared. 

We  extend  our  appreciation  for  the 
good  offices  of  this  state's  representa- 


tives in  Congress  and  their  friends  in 
bringing  about  a  Congressional  His- 
torical Record  in  the  Legislation  extend- 
ing the  Draft  Act,  which  clearly  recog- 
nizes in  the  interpretation  of  the  statute 
the  exemptibility  of  our  missionaires  as 
ministers  of  religion.  We  do  not  re- 
gard this  favorable  interpretation  as  be- 
ing a  discriminatory  concession  to  us 
in  any  respect  or  degree.  It  helps  us 
because  it  is  a  just  clarification  which 
may  not  have  been  clear  to  some  offi- 
cials. 

Now,  not  because  there  is  urgent  need 
of  it,  but  because  I  think  it  may  serve 
other  purposes,  I  wish  to  bring  for- 
ward a  few  items  which  justify  this  con- 
clusion that  our  young  men  mission- 
aries are  ministers  of  religion.  I  grant 
you  that  they  do  not  always  look  as 
other  ministers  look.  They  may  be  dis- 
appointing to  some  in  formality  and 
grace  of  expression.  Many  of  them  may 
not  have  attained  the  scholastic  stand- 
ing reached  by  most  of  the  profession. 
What  is  the  missionary's  training  for 
the  ministry? 

First,  he  is  usually  reared  in  a  home 
presided  over  by  a  man  of  the  priest- 
hood, who,  in  certain  aspects  at  least, 
may  be  looked  on  as  a  man  of  the  min- 
istry. The  functions  of  the  ministry  are 
carried  forward  in  large  measure  in  the 
future  missionary's  home.  Prayer,  bless- 
ings, scriptural  and  religious  learning 
are  features  of  his  early  environment. 
He  is  accorded  the  opportunity  of  par- 
ticipation. He  prays,  he  sings,  he  reads, 
he  studies,  and  in  adolescent  years, 
joins  in  sacred  religious  ordinances. 

Second,  in  the  religious  educational 
program  of  the  Church,  he  becomes 
identified  with  the  organizations  of  the 
Church.  His  mother  may  bring  him  to 
Sunday  School  as  a  baby;  he  toddles 
into  the  infant  classes;  and  from  then 
on  he  is  taught,  and  he  learns  the  lit- 
erature of  the  Church  and  the  ways  of 
the  Lord. 

Third,  he  is  integrated  into  a  spiritual 
society.  His  recreation,  which  not  in- 
frequently brings  the  contacts  which  en- 
able him  to  choose  his  life's  partner, 
is  supervised  and  directed  under  re- 
ligious auspices,  whose  constant  en- 
deavor it  is  to  clarify  and  define  the 
ultimate  goals  of  life.  In  the  atmos- 
phere of  such  spirituality,  his  spirit  na- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


98 

Sunday,  October  2 

ture  is  nurtured  and  developed.  His 
liberal  participation  in  all  such  institu- 
tions and  exercises  is  calculated  for  the 
development  of  that  spirituality.  What 
I  may  ask,  is  more  essential  to  a  min- 
isterial calling? 

Fourth,  there  then  comes  to  the 
adolescent  youth  training  and  experi- 
ence without  counterpart  in  any  other 
institutions  of  which  I  am  aware.  He 
enters  the  quorums  of  the  priesthood. 
At  the  age  of  twelve  he  is  first  ordained 
and  inducted  into  a  group  of  approxi- 
mately his  own  age. 

He  is  taught  the  history  of  the  priest- 
hood, and  he  is  made  to  understand  that 
the  power  conferred  upon  him,  even 
though  a  mere  youth,  derives  from  the 
authentic  power  given  by  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  through  his  servants  to  those  se- 
lected to  receive  the  priesthood  in  this 
dispensation  of  time,  and  from  whom 
it  has  come  in  direct  and  authentic 
succession  to  this  boy.  He  has  respect 
for  this  calling,  and  he  seeks  to  dis- 
charge his  duties  as  a  youthful  holder 
of  the  priesthood  of  the  Lord.  Is  that 
training  for  a  minister  in  the  gospel  of 
Christ?  Is  there  anything  taught  in  the 
seminaries  of  ecclesiastical  learning 
more  important  as  a  groundwork  for 
ministerial  service  than  actual  partici- 
pation in  the  functions  and  offices  of 
the  priesthood? 

Well,  this  young  man  continues 
through  the  various  gradations  of  the 
priesthood,  always  being  given  and  as- 
suming larger  participation  in  the  func- 
tions of  the  Church  and  the  blessing  of 
the  people. 

Fifth,  much  of  the  education  of  the 
young  man,  not  only  in  the  Sunday 
School,  the  other  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions, and  the  priesthood  quorum,  but 
also  in  his  academic  training,  is  di- 
rected toward  acquisition  of  theological 
learning  and  capacity  to  live  and  ex- 
pound the  principles  of  the  gospel. 
Church  schools,  institutes,  and  semi- 
naries are  available  to  him  in  this 
preparation. 

If  he  avails  himself  of  all  these 
privileges,  I  say  he  is  prepared  for  mis- 
sionary service  and  for  ordination  and 
setting  apart  to  go  forth  as  an  ambas- 
sador and  minister  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  in  teaching  his  gospel  to  the 
people  and  performing  ministerial  serv- 


Third  Day 

ices  among  them.  I  hope  that  never 
again  in  our  own  country  or  in  other 
countries  will  the  ministerial  status  of 
our  missionaries  be  seriously  ques- 
tioned. 

We  can  use  young  women  of  eligible 
age,  health,  and  spiritual  qualifications 
in  the  missionary  service.  They  have 
performed  an  outstanding  work  in  for- 
eign and  local  missions.  Their  pleasing 
manner,  their  intelligent  and  persuasive 
elucidation  of  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel have  won  for  them  sympathetic 
listeners  where  others  have  failed.  Their 
services  are  sought  by  all  the  missions 
because  of  their  competence  and  the 
lovely  atmosphere  and  spirit  they  bring, 
but  they  must  have  good  health,  for  the 
labors  are  strenuous. 

We  have  need  for  married  couples 
in  the  missions — men  and  women  of 
maturity  and  experience  whose  families 
have  been  reared,  who  can  go  into  mis- 
sions and  not  only  proselyte  but  also 
teach  to  branches  of  the  mission  the 
great  principles  of  self-government,  to 
give  guidance  under  the  direction  of  the 
mission  president  to  the  efforts  of  new 
members  who  have  not  been  schooled 
in  the  procedures  of  the  Church. 

Perhaps  I  have  said  too  much  with 
reference  to  the  details  of  some  of  our 
missionary  procedure.  If  I  have,  please 
ascribe  it  to  my  intense  interest  in  the 
success  of  our  great  system. 

May  I  now  make  a  few  comments  on 
some  matters  which,  in  my  judgment, 
have  a  bearing  on  our  whole  missionary 
endeavor.  I  have  spoken  to  you  about 
these  matters  before,  but  I  deem  them 
worthy  of  further  attention  to  fortify 
our  resolution  to  capitalize  on  the  not- 
able missionary  experiences  which  I 
first  mentioned. 

These  comments  and  observations  I 
bring  forward  under  the  general  cap- 
tion of  courage  and  frankness  in  gospel 
exposition.  I  think  perhaps  I  may  have 
received  my  idea  and  urge  to  mention 
this  matter  from  the  series  of  addresses 
presented  by  our  brethren  during  recent 
months  on  the  Sunday  evening  program 
of  the  Church  broadcast  over  the  radio. 
I  do  hope  that  many  of  you  have  lis- 
tened to  these  programs,  and  I  hope 
sincerely  that  many  of  our  friends  not 
in  the  Church  have  listened,  also.  The 
messages  were  meant  for  them. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


99 


I  think  these  messages  are  furnishing 
a  pattern  that  all  of  us  may  well  adopt 
in  our  attempt  to  share  the  gospel  with 
our  neighbors  and  with  the  world.  The 
addresses  were  dissertations  on  gospel 
principles,  literally  reciting  scriptural 
support  for  the  doctrines  we  espouse 
and  teach.  The  feature  of  the  discourses, 
however,  which  arrested  my  attention 
was  the  speaker's  approach  to  the  lis- 
tening audience. 

After  or  during  each  exposition  of  a 
principle  of  the  restored  gospel,  the 
speaker  confronted  his  listeners  with 
one  or  more  personal  questions,  of 
which  the  following  are  examples.  (I 
attempt  to  give  only  the  idea,  not  the 
language.)  All  of  the  questions  were 
presented  with  the  utmost  courtesy,  and 
in  a  spirit  of  friendliness,  but  in  frank- 
ness. 

After  the  lecture  on  the  personality 
of  God,  follows  the  question:  Are  you, 
my  friend,  converted  to  the  worship  of  a 
personal  God,  the  Father  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Eternal  Parent,  and 
the  Organizer  and  Ruler  of  the  uni- 
verse? Is  he  a  real  Father  in  heaven 
to  you,  as  you  offer  your  prayers  and 
supplications  to  him?  Or  are  you  in- 
clined to  accept  in  lieu  of  such  a  con- 
cept that  God  is  merely  a  principle  of 
power  in  the  universe  without  person- 
ality? Do  you  believe  that  such  a 
nebulous  concept  of  the  Almighty  will 
be  adequate  to  govern  in  the  affairs  of 
men  and  bring  reverential  obedience  to 
divine  law  and  brotherhood  among  the 
sons  of  God? 

And  then  after  an  explanation  of 
baptism,  these  frank  questions:  Are 
you,  my  Christian  friend,  convinced  in 
your  own  heart  that  the  baptism  you 
have  received  is  the  baptism  prescribed 
by  the  Savior  of  the  world  as  essential 
for  the  salvation  of  man  and  entrance 
into  the  Father's  kingdom?  Have  you 
complete  confidence  that  the  authority 
performing  baptism  for  you  emanates 
directly  from  the  Savior,  who  is  the 
Author  of  salvation?  Would  you  not, 
if  you  seek  for  truth,  feel  far  more  con- 
tented to  receive  baptism  in  the  manner 
in  which  our  Lord  himself  received  it, 
performed  by  divine  authority  traceable 
directly  to  reliable  sources  verified  by 
recent  history,  not  subject  to  the  debate 
and  confusion  arising  out  of  question- 


able interpretations  and  practices  of  an- 
tique times  with  historical  records  in- 
adequate for  present  competent  proof? 

After  the  subject  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
has  been  explained  in  the  light  of  the 
scriptures  and  modern  revelation,  these 
questions,  very  frank,  perhaps  bold,  ad- 
dressed to  the  friend  who  listens:  Have 
you  received  the  Holy  Ghost?  If  you 
answer  yes,  how  did  you  receive  it?  Do 
you  believe,  after  what  you  have  heard, 
that  it  can  be  conferred  upon  anyone 
except  under  the  laying  on  of  hands 
by  him  who  holds  the  priesthood  of 
God?  Would  you  like  to  have  the 
Holy  Ghost  as  a  guide  and  companion 
in  life  as  promised  by  the  Savior? 

Finally,  as  to  modern  revelation,  so 
important  and  essential  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  restored  Church:  Have 
you,  my  friend,  one  single  piece  of  com- 
petent evidence  to  negate  the  actuality 
of  the  experiences  of  Joseph  Smith, 
which  through  his  record  and  solemn 
testimony  he  has  left  to  the  Church 
and  all  men?  Do  you  deny  the  power 
of  the  Lord  to  reveal  himself  to  his 
children  and  to  give  to  them  his  word 
and  will?  Do  you  acknowledge  the 
necessity,  in  the  varying  and  discordant 
interpretations  of  the  Lord's  ministry 
and  the  subsequent  history  of  his 
Church,  for  a  word  from  him,  which 
you  must  admit  is  the  answer  to  dispu- 
tation and  controversy?  Do  you  not 
find  it  in  your  heart,  if  you  love  God, 
to  seek  to  know  the  truth  about  him 
and  his  work?  Is  there  any  adequate 
answer  except  in  revelation? 

I  dwell  upon  this  personal  approach 
by  personal  questions  because  I  think 
it  is  calculated  to  bring  a  personal  bless- 
ing to  him  who  is  questioned.  I  do 
not  want  the  investigator  to  be  offended. 
I  do  not  want  his  right  of  privacy  and 
thinking  and  affiliation  to  be  invaded. 
I  do  not  want  to  do  anything  of  this 
nature  without  his  consent,  but  if  he 
does  consent  to  listen,  I  believe  the 
greatest  good  to  him  comes  in  a  frank 
statement  of  the  way  the  principles  we 
teach  affect  his  personal  life. 

Now,  you  may  say,  we  are  always 
frank.  Are  we?  How  many  men  and 
women  are  there  among  us  who  find  it 
much  easier  to  present  things  about  the 
Church  and  the  gospel  in  more  or  less 
generalized  statements?   It  is  not  diffi- 


100 

Sunday,  October  2 

cult  to  uphold  and  contend  for  the  vir- 
tues of  Christian  life  in  a  Christian 
community.  Many  like  to  do  it;  I  am 
glad  they  do.  The  more  all  people 
acknowledge  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  the  more  hope 
we  shall  have  for  the  prevalence  of  his 
doctrine  and  principles  in  the  affairs 
of  men. 

I  have  observed  that  there  is  fre- 
quently adopted  a  principle  of  negotia- 
tion between  conflicting  groups  and  in- 
terests which  runs  something  after  this 
order:  emphasize  the  areas  of  agreement 
and  minimize  those  of  difference.  It 
may  be  that  that  is  acceptable  as  a 
diplomatic  policy,  and  it  may  have  some 
virtue  in  religious  discussion,  but  I  am 
not  able  to  see  how  we  can  make  great 
progress  in  teaching  the  true  gospel  to 
our  fellow  men  without  forcefully  bring- 
ing to  their  attention  in  frankness,  but 
good  spirit,  the  differences  which  in 
reality  represent  the  essence  of  revealed 
truth. 

This  is  the  sesquicentennial  year  of 
the  birth  of  Joseph  Smith.  We  should 
like  to  pay  great  honor  and  respect  to 
him  as  the  chosen  servant  and  prophet 
of  the  Lord.  How,  may  I  ask,  can  we 
hope  to  do  this  in  a  way  more  accept- 
able to  him  than  by  the  world-wide 
dissemination  of  the  distinctive  inter- 
pretations and  features  of  the  gospel 
which  have  come  to  us  through  his  in- 
spired teachings? 

May  I  mention  a  final  item  in  our 
missionary  effort.  It  is  what  I  choose 
to  designate  as  background  for  the  mis- 
sionary. Communication  in  the  world 
today  is  relatively  easy.  Many  travel. 
There  is  widespread  knowledge,  particu- 
larly where  there  is  no  censorship  in 
the  dissemination  of  news,  of  communi- 
ties, and  social  systems.  Our  mission- 
aries go  to  the  world  representing  not 
only  great  principles  of  truth,  but  also 
a  divinely  appointed  society,  established 
under  the  revelations  coming  from  our 
Father  in  heaven.  The  principles  of 
life  which  they  teach  are  exemplified 
in  that  society,  and  their  vitality  and 
effectiveness  are  measured  and  appraised 
very  largely  by  the  living  and  behavior 
of  that  society. 

We  often  say  we  have  a  converted 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

ministry  who  go  forth  with  complete 
conviction  and  testimony.  These  mis- 
sionaries need  a  converted  constituency 
whose  conviction  is  attested  by  their 
living.  They  must  be  able  to  point  with 
pride  to  us  as  we  point  with  pride  to 
them.  It  is  almost  impossible  to  calcu- 
late the  retardation  and  injury  to  the 
great  cause  which  comes  from  those 
whose  performance  is  not  consistent 
with  their  professions.  In  the  stakes 
and  wards  of  Zion  the  Lord  has  caused 
to  be  set  up  divisions  of  his  kingdom. 
God  grant  that  the  Latter-day  Saint  in 
these  divisions  may  have  the  courage, 
the  vision,  the  devotion,  and  the 
strength  of  character  to  make  these  divi- 
sions of  the  kingdom  effective  and  im- 
pressive background  for  the  proclama- 
tion of  his  gospel  by  his  missionaries. 

We  live  in  a  good  day,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  a  day  of  encouragement  and 
hope  and  boundless  opportunities. 
Above  all  else  we  are  blessed  with  truth, 
truth  about  God,  truth  about  man,  his 
salvation  and  destiny.  We  have  a 
burning  desire  to  share  that  truth  with 
all  the  children  of  our  Father.  To  that 
end  we  send  our  missionaries  to  them 
at  great  cost  and  sacrifice. 

We  invite  all  men  to  listen  with  open 
minds  and  hearts,  and  fortified  by  di- 
vine authority  and  the  prophecies  of 
the  holy  scriptures  and  lifetime  experi- 
ences of  good  men,  we  solemnly  make 
the  promise  to  them  that  if  they  will 
hearken  and  receive,  their  lives  will  be 
enriched.  Whether  wealthy  or  poor, 
they  will  be  infinitely  happier,  and  they 
will  thank  the  Lord  to  the  end  of  their 
days  for  the  missionaries  who  brought 
them  the  truth. 

I  invoke  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  on 
his  Church  and  kingdom  in  the  earth, 
and  upon  all  men,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  George  Q.  Morris  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  who  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young. 


101 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


~™  Y  dear  brethren  and  sisters: 
I  thank  the  Lord  for  fel- 
lowship and  association 
with  you  in  this  glorious 
conference  opened  by  an 
inspiring  message  from 
the  President  of  this  great  Church,  and 
I  think  his  spirit  has  penetrated  our 
hearts  and  permeated  all  the  sessions 
of  this  conference,  as  the  Lord  blessed 
him  with  his  spirit  and  power. 

I  have  felt  that  this  conference  is 
marking  a  new  epoch  in  the  advance- 
ment of  this  the  kingdom  of  God.  I 
am  sure  there  have  been  other  confer- 
ences where  splendid  reports  have  come 
from  various  parts  of  the  world,  but 
there  surely  has  been  no  other  confer- 
ence in  the  history  of  this  Church  where 
such  events  have  been  reported  as  have 
been  reported  in  this  conference — events 
which  have  thrilled  our  hearts,  and 
there  is  no  question  in  my  mind  but, 
with  the  temple  dedication  and  choir 
tour  in  Europe,  the  advancement  of  the 
Church  has  been  greatly  accelerated, 
and  we  find  ourselves  in  the  midst  of 
an  advancement  of  this  great  cause 
spreading  over  the  earth  in  a  new  way, 
under  new  conditions. 

Just  about  a  hundred  years  ago  this 
people  were  a  driven,  mobbed,  outraged 
people,  banished  from  one  of  the  states 
of  the  Union,  in  the  hope  of  those  who 
banished  them — after  killing  their  two 
leaders,  Joseph  and  Hyrum,  prophets  of 
God — that  they  would  perish  in  the 
western  wilderness.  We  did  not  perish. 
Now  a  hundred  years  or  so  later  our 
President  and  our  choir,  with  members 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  are  made 
welcomed  and  honored  visitors  in  the 
nations  of  the  world,  being  accorded 
welcomes  that  were  heartfelt  and  gener- 
ous, such  as  are  perhaps  given  to  royalty 
and  other  people  of  distinction — and 
the  Lord  will  bless  those  peoples. 

Why  has  this  occurred?  Because  this 
is  the  kingdom  of  God.  Daniel  saw  this 
day,  and  we  should  realize,  and  I  hope 
our  children  realize,  that  we  are  taking 
part  in  events  which  prophets  saw  and 
described  centuries  ago  that  the  Lord 
knew  would  take  place;  and  in  my 


judgment  all  that  is  going  on  in  the 
world  today,  with  our  world  wars  and 
our  great  movements  that  seem  to  be 
shaking  the  earth — is  being  utilized  for 
the  consummation  of  his  holy  purposes 
as  he  has  always  done.  So  we  are  see- 
ing the  fulfilment  of  this  prophecy  of 
Daniel: 

And  in  the  days  of  these  kings  shall  the 
God  of  heaven  set  up  a  kingdom,  which 
shall  never  be  destroyed;  and  the  king- 
dom shall  not  be  left  to  other  people,  but 
it  shall  break  in  pieces  and  consume  all 
these  kingdoms,  and  it  shall  stand  forever. 
(Daniel  2:44.) 

How  could  we  identify  this  kingdom? 
Well,  there  are  many  ways.  Mark  the 
advance  of  civilization,  from  the  ancient, 
Asiatic  powers,  with  whom  God  had 
dealings  through  his  prophets,  advanc- 
ing westward  over  Asia,  advancing  west- 
ward through  Europe,  always  westward, 
and  then  it  was  stopped  for  centuries. 
Thousands  of  miles  of  ocean  formed  an 
impediment  to  this  advancement.  Then 
in  due  time  the  Lord  bridged  that  great 
gap,  inspiring  Columbus  to  discover  this 
land,  this  the  greatest  of  all  continents 
and  the  choicest  of  all  lands,  which 
God  had  reserved  for  the  setting  up  of 
his  kingdom;  on  which  he  established 
this  free  government,  giving  this  nation 
power  over  the  mother  country  in  the 
Revolutionary  War.  During  these  years 
in  Europe  before  America  was  dis- 
covered, kingdoms  were  established  all 
over  the  land  and  continued  for  cen- 
turies. 

It  was  in  the  time  of  these  kings  that 
this  kingdom  of  God  was  to  be  estab- 
lished. It  is  interesting  to  note  that  in 
great  movements,  and  the  establishment 
of  kingdoms  and  dominions,  two  things 
are  very  essential:  transportation  and 
communication.  Without  those,  de- 
velopments of  that  kind  are  not  possi- 
ble. The  Lord  has  taken  care  of  that, 
and  now  as  his  kingdom  advances  in 
power,  we  hear  the  spoken  word  around 
the  world,  and  we  are  on  the  way,  I 
think,  even  to  be  able  to  see  around  the 
world  through  television;  and  we  are 
having  planes  built  that  will  take  us 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


102 

Sunday,  October  2 

from  here  to  our  temple  in  Bern  and  to 
our  other  operations  in  Europe  between 
sunrise  and  sunset.  The  Lord  has  pro- 
vided the  necessary  means  at  the  right 
time. 

Another  identification:  The  Lord, 
through  his  prophets,  and  the  Savior 
while  he  was  with  the  Nephites,  said 
that  there  would  be  a  sign  given  when 
the  Father  would  undertake  to  estab- 
lish his  kingdom  for  the  last  time  among 
the  nations. 

He  said  to  them  when  the  record  of 
this  people  comes  to  your  descendants 
then  you  may  know  that  the  work  of 
the  Father  is  being  begun  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth. 

Well,  that  Book  of  Mormon  came  to 
their  descendants,  and  they  have  had  it 
for  a  hundred  years.  The  Lord  also 
said  that  the  time  would  come  for  the 
gathering  of  Israel — Israel  to  this  nation, 
the  land  of  Joseph,  and  the  Jews  to  their 
land  in  Palestine.  For  a  hundred  years, 
the  gospel  has  been  preached.  You  or 
your  fathers  and  mothers  have  been 
gathered  from  all  the  nations  of  the 
earth  because  you  and  they  are  of  the 
blood  of  Israel.  They  heard  the  mes- 
sage of  the  gospel,  and  we  have  been 
gathered  here  to  this  nation.  Signifi- 
cantly enough,  the  movement  west- 
ward continued  when  this  great  land 
was  opened,  even  in  this  land,  when  we 
were  driven  from  the  east  we  moved 
further  west,  until  we  have  come  to  the 
last  stand  in  the  westward  movement  < 
in  the  tops  of  these  Rocky  Mountains. 
There  is  no  place  further  west  to  go  and 
no  further  need  of  it,  for  God  has  now 
established  his  kingdom  in  the  tops  of 
these  mountains,  and  Israel  is  gathering 
to  it. 

The  Jews,  because  of  conditions  grow- 
ing out  of  World  War  I,  are  going  back 
to  Palestine,  crowding  back  so  rapidly 
that  they  can  hardly  be  cared  for.  They 
do  not  understand  why,  but  we  do. 
They  are  building  up  their  cities,  plant- 
ing their  vineyards,  developing  industry, 
and  they  are  beginning  to  believe  in 
Jesus  Christ  as  foretold.  I  was  in  touch 
with  an  association  in  New  York  City 
while  I  was  there  that  was  a  mission 
to  the  Jews,  to  preach  Christianity  to 
the  Jewish  people,  and  singularly 
enough  it  was  an  organization  of  Jews 
who  had  been  converted  to  Christianity 


Third  Day 

— such  as  they  were  able  to  comprehend 
and  believe. 

I  went  into  their  establishment,  not 
knowing  just  who  they  were,  to  in- 
quire about  something,  and  then  I  saw 
the  New  Testament  and  other  evi- 
dences that  led  me  to  ask  them,  "Are 
you  Christians?" 

They  said,  "Yes,  we  are  Christians." 

"Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  that  you 
Jews  believe  in  the  divinity  of  Jesus 
Christ?" 

"Yes,  we  do." 

"You  believe  then  that  Jesus  Christ 
was  the  Messiah,  he  whom  your  fathers 
crucified?" 

"Yes,  we  do." 

They  had  suffered  hardship  and  trial 
and  difficulty  facing  the  enmity  of  their 
own  people.  I  was  present  in  one  of 
their  meetings  where  they  sent  away  a 
young  woman  missionary,  as  we  send 
our  missionaries,  in  a  way.  And  where 
do  you  suppose  she  was  being  sent?  She 
was  being  sent  to  Jerusalem  where  their 
fathers  crucified  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
to  bring  them  the  message  that  this 
same  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the 
world. 

The  Lord  said  when  these  things 
were  happening  we  would  know  that 
he  was  at  work  among  the  nations,  that 
he  had  set  his  hand  to  carry  on  his 
work.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  just 
three  years  before  the  powers  of  evil 
finally  so  gathered  around  him  that  they 
took  his  life,  made  this  prophecy.  It  is 
in  the  famous  Wentworth  letter  of 
1842,  Mr.  Wentworth  having  asked  him 
to  supply  information  and  something  of 
the  doctrines  that  might  be  published 
concerning  the  history  of  our  people. 
After  he  had  outlined  the  history  and 
persecution  of  the  people,  before  setting 
forth  our  beliefs  in  what  we  now  call 
our  Articles  of  Faith,  he  prophesied: 

Our  missionaries  are  going  forth  to  differ- 
ent nations,  and  in  Germany,  Palestine, 
New  Holland,  Australia,  the  East  Indies, 
and  other  places;  the  Standard  of  Truth  has 
been  erected;  no  unhallowed  hand  can  stop 
the  work  from  progressing;  persecutions  may 
rage,  mobs  may  combine,  armies  may  as- 
semble, calumny  may  defame,  but  the 
truth  of  God  will  go  forth,  boldly,  nobly, 
and  independent,  till  it  has  penetrated 
every  continent,  visited  every  clime,  swept 
every  country,  and  sounded  in  every  ear, 
till  the  purposes  of  God  shall  be  accom- 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


103 


plished  and  the  Great  Jehovah  shall  say, 
the  work  is  done.  (D.  H.  C.  W-540.) 

I  bear  my  humble  witness  that  that 
prophecy  is  of  God  and  that  this  is  the 
kingdom  of  God  that  Daniel  saw  the 
Lord  set  up,  never  to  be  given  to  other 
people;  that  angels  have  visited  the 
earth  and  restored  the  Holy  Priesthood, 
without  which  the  kingdom  of  God  has 
never  been  in  the  earth,  and  never  can 
be  in  the  earth;  and  God  is  carrying 
on  this  work;  and  the  miraculous  things 
referred  to  by  Elder  Petersen  yesterday 
are  part  and  parcel  of  the  kingdom  of 
God.  Unless  we  can  accept  the  super- 
natural, which  means  the  power  of 
God,  we  cannot  accept  salvation  in  the 
kingdom  of  God,  and  we  do  not  believe 
in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  do  not 
believe  that  the  gospel  is  the  power  of 
God,  if  when  the  power  of  God  is  mani- 
fest to  bring  it  to  us,  we  reject  it  and 
deny  it. 

This  is  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God.  I  bear  my  humble  witness  to  it. 
His  power  is  here  for  the  salvation  of 
the  world.  Would  to  God  they  would 
believe  and  join  with  us  in  advancing 
this  kingdom  over  the  earth,  for  there 
is  no  power  under  heaven,  or  ever  will 
be,  except  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  the  kingdom  of  God,  that  will 
bring  universal  peace  and  happiness  to 
the  children  of  men,  and  that  process 


is  now  in  operation.  May  God  further 
it  and  bless  it.  I  bear  witness  to  the 
divine  calling  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith — a  glorious  Prophet,  who  has  paid 
the  price  that  prophets  have  paid  in  this 
world  that  enshrines  the  dead  prophets 
and  destroys  the  living  ones. 

May  God  bless  us  and  preserve  us  so 
that  we  will  live  the  gospel  and  preach 
it.  People  may  not  believe  it — I  wish 
they  would — but  it  is  our  business  to 
declare  it  with  all  its  marvelous  works 
and  wonders.  The  definition  in  the 
dictionary  for  "miraculous"  is  "marvel- 
ous, wonderful,"  and  that  is  exactly 
how  the  Lord  describes  the  work  that  he 
is  to  bring  forth  in  the  latter  days,  a 
"strange  work,"  "a  marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder,"  because  his  power  will  be 
made  manifest. 

May  God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  be 
true  to  every  principle  and  doctrine  and 
teaching  of  this  Church,  to  live  them, 
and  to  preach  them  to  the  world,  I  hum- 
bly pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  George  Q.  Morris  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve.  We  shall  now  hear 
from  Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  ast  evening  President  Rich- 
ards referred  with  some  feel- 
ing to  the  children  and  to 
the  grandchildren  and  to  the 
great-grandchildren,  who  if 
the  Church  is  to  carry  for- 
ward, must  somehow  catch  the  great 
message  from  their  parents  and  go  for- 
ward when  the  torch  is  tossed  to  them. 
I  should  like  to  spend  my  few  moments 
in  talking  to  them,  if  I  might  have  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

I  should  like  to  speak  to  Lori  and 
to  Park,  to  Charlotte  and  to  Annette,  to 
Jack,  to  Brook,  to  Becky,  and  to  Kirk, 
to  Joan,  to  Norma,  and  to  Ann,  to 
Suzette,  and  to  Carol  Gay,  and  to  Don, 
to  Dale,  and  to  LeGrand,  and  to  Henry 


and  to  David — I  could  go  on  and  on 
and  on  naming  the  children,  some  of 
whom  are  listening  this  morning,  and 
many  of  whom  are  in  Sunday  School. 

Some  of  them,  when  given  opportu- 
nity, would  arise  to  their  feet  and  say 
something  like  this:  "I  believe  the  gos- 
pel. I  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  Prophet."  And  then  they  qualify  it 
by  saying,  "I  do  not  know  yet  that  it 
is  true,  but  I  believe  it."  I  desire  to 
say  something  to  them  concerning  this 
qualifying  statement,  and  I  should  like 
to  say  it  in  simple  language  so  they 
can  understand. 

The  power  to  bear  testimony,  the 
ability  and  the  feeling  of  being  able  to 
say  that  one  knows  that  Jesus  is  the 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  2 

Christ  and  that  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  has  come  through  the  hands  of 
Joseph  Smith,  comes  entirely  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  That  power 
does  not  come  through  any  education 
or  through  any  special  preparation  on 
the  part  of  the  recipient  in  earthly 
things,  but  rather  it  whispers  into  the 
heart  of  the  one  who  wants  to  know, 
and  once  whispered  and  once  under- 
stood, that  person  may  stand  and  say  as 
surely  as  I  or  anyone  else  may  stand 
and  say  it,  that  he  knows  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ.  For  the  Spirit  bears  the 
witness,  and  it  comes  to  everyone  that 
in  truth  desires  it. 

I  think  that  is  the  great  message  of 
Joseph  Smith  himself.  He  was  only 
fourteen  years  of  age,  and  he  walked  into 
his  mother's  home  one  morning  and 
said,  "Mother,  I  have  learned  for  my- 
self that  Presbyterianism  is  not  true." 
Well,  each  of  our  children  is  not  going 
to  receive  a  vision  such  as  Joseph  Smith 
received,  but  each  can  have  the  whis- 
pering, and  each  can  know  just  as 
surely,  no  matter  what  his  age.  He 
does  not  have  to  grow  to  be  an  adult 
to  have  this  knowledge. 

I  can  remember  when  I  was  a  small 
child  at  the  Lowell  School  up  on  D 
Street  and  Second  Avenue.  Four  of  us 
boys  were  gathered  in  the  corner  by  the 
school  fence,  two  of  us  were  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  two  of  us  were  not.  The 
two  who  were  not  were  baiting  the  two 
Latter-day  Saints.  One  of  them  (it 
was  not  I,  although  I  might  have  had 
the  courage  to  do  it)  turned  on  these 
other  boys  and  said,  "Well,  we  have 
the  truth,  and  you  haven't,  and  that 
is  all  there  is  to  it."  And  that  is  all 
there  was  to  it,  too.  He  did  not  know 
why  he  knew  it,  but  he  did  know  it. 
He  was  going  to  learn  why  later.  All 
children  will  learn  to  understand  that 
whispering  someday,  and  only  by  that 
whispering  can  you  children,  wherever 
you  be,  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
You  may  pile  up  evidence  and  knowl- 
edge, but  only  by  that  spirit  will  you 
know  it. 

Now  the  spirit  does  not  always  whis- 
per. Sometimes  it  leaves  one,  and  then 
one  is  left  to  his  own  resources.  Then 
enters  free  agency.  I  should  like  to  say 
to  my  children,  my  grandchildren  and 
yours,  that  you  can  be  determined  to 


Third  Day 

know  about  this  thing  by  your  own 
desire.  You  do  not  have  to  take  some- 
one's else  word  about  it.  Say  to  your- 
selves, "I  know  that  this  is  so.  I  believe 
it,  and  I  am  going  to  abide  by  it." 
As  you  get  that  determination  and  say 
it,  somehow  the  spirit  will  re-enter  into 
you  and  fortify  you  in  it. 

There  will  be  times  when  the  spirit 
will  not  come  to  you.  Here  are  some 
evidences  which  eventually  will  grow 
into  your  hearts  until  they  will  sustain 
you  when  the  spirit  is  not  present. 
There  is  the  evidence  which  you  will 
gain  from  the  Book  of  Mormon.  When 
you  read  that  book,  it  will  be  an  evi- 
dence to  you.  Coupled  with  it  will  be 
evidences  found  in  the  ancient  Old 
Testament  of  how  the  Lord  dealt  with 
his  ancient  people.  You  will  discover 
that  it  is  very  similar  to  the  way  he 
dealt  with  those  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. The  pattern  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment will  be  an  evidence  to  you,  for 
like  that  pattern  the  Church  today  is 
established.  There  you  will  read  it  and 
take  comfort  from  it. 

You,  when  you  get  old  enough  to 
understand  them,  will  be  able  to  gain 
great  comfort  from  the  books  of  Moses 
and  of  Abraham,  the  revelations  of  the 
Lord  to  great,  inspired  men.  These  will 
give  you  renewed  assurance.  Archaeo- 
logical discovery,  that  is,  the  digging  in 
ancient  mounds  to  find  evidences  of 
what  kind  of  people  lived  there,  will 
further  your  belief,  because  slowly  but 
surely,  as  these  evidences  come  forth, 
they  bear  their  silent,  dusty  witness  of 
the  truth  of  the  gospel. 

One  of  the  most  noble  witnesses  and 
one  of  the  most  assuring  and  convinc- 
ing witnesses  is  the  lives  of  your  own 
parents.  Watch  them  live,  watch  how 
the  gospel  touches  their  hearts  and 
makes  them  gentle  and  kind.  That  is 
the  surest  evidence  that  it  is  a  power 
beyond  any  earthly  conception — its 
effect  upon  the  lives  of  your  own  folk 
and  those  you  see  around  you  who  are 
trying  to  work  righteousness. 

Another  evidence,  as  you  get  older, 
will  be  the  evidence  you  will  see  in  the 
effort  of  the  Church  to  help  its  own 
through  the  welfare  program.  Such 
altruistic  things  can  come  only  from 
those  who  want  to  practise  and  believe 
the  truth.    This  great  evidence  will 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


105 


also  bear  its  witness  to  you  as  you  get 
older  and  take  part  in  it;  as  you  go  to 
the  cannery  or  as  you  go  to  weed  the 
beet  fields  and  help  harvest  the  peas. 
Those  evidences  will  come  to  you  be- 
cause or  your  work  and  your  actions 
in  that  program. 

Then,  of  course,  you  are  going  to  have 
a  great  deal  of  pleasure  and  fun,  but 
you  are  going  to  see  the  evidence  of 
the  auxiliary  programs  of  the  Church. 
How  they  touch  your  lives,  starting 
with  childhood  and  taking  you  through 
to  adulthood,  giving  you  ideals  and 
knowledge  of  how  to  handle  yourselves 
and  your  companions,  how  to  be  happy 
and  joyful,  and  how  to  enjoy  that  por- 
tion of  the  gospel,  for  the  gospel  is  a 
happy  thing.  And  the  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Associations  and  the  Sunday 
School  and  the  Primary  will  contribute 
evidences  within  your  ability  to  under- 
stand if  you  will  but  heed. 

And  finally,  not  finally  but  some- 
where along  the  line,  each  young  man 
will  be  given  the  priesthood.  And 
then  he  will  have  a  chance  to  practise 
the  power  which  will  eventually  take 
him  into  the  presence  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  You  will  not  know  much  about 
it  at  first,  for  it  will  be  evidenced  by 
such  simple  acts  as  the  passing  of  the 
bread  when  the  sacrament  is  admin- 
istered in  honor  of  our  Lord  and  Savior. 
Later  on  you  will  be  able  to  baptize, 
and,  too,  you  will  be  able  to  lay  on 
hands  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  after  that  you  will  be  able 
to  administer  to  your  own  sick.  And 
still  you  will  not  know  what  that  power 
is.  Finally  you  will  feel  it,  and  you  will 
learn,  when  you  become  old,  that  even- 
tually it  will  take  you  into  the  presence 
of  your  Father  in  heaven. 

Determination  does  it,  my  young 
friends.  Be  determined  that  you  are 
going  to  get  these  evidences  into  your 
hearts,  and  then  pray  to  the  Lord  that 
he  will  give  you  the  Spirit  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

One  more  thing — you  will  have  evi- 
dence of  the  whispering  of  the  Spirit. 
You  will  hear  testimony  borne  by  others 
that  there  sits  on  this  stand  one  who 
is  not  only  the  President  of  the  Church 
but  who  is  the  Prophet  of  the  Living 
God.  That  evidence  can  be  borne  into 
your  hearts  no  matter  how  young  you 


are,  that  the  Lord  has  seen  to  it  that 
his  power  has  been  carried  forward  from 
the  days  of  Joseph  Smith. 

Let  me  give  you  an  example  of  what 
can  happen  to  you.  Brigham  Young 
stood  up  one  day  in  the  early  history 
of  this  Church  and  told  the  assembled 
people  that  the  Lord,  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  had  put  upon 
his  shoulders  and  those  of  the  Twelve, 
the  kingdom;  that  they  were  to  bear  it 
on,  and  it  was  not  to  be  done  by  Sid- 
ney Rigdon  and  others  who  were  mak- 
ing claim,  but  that  the  Prophet  had 
given  to  him  and  his  fellows  in  the 
Twelve  the  power  of  God  to  carry  on 
this  work.  There  sat  in  that  audience, 
my  young  friends,  those  who  were  full 
of  faith,  and  the  Lord  manifested  to 
them  through  a  miracle  that  what 
President  Young  said  was  true,  for  he 
appeared  unto  them  to  be  the  very 
Prophet  Joseph  himself,  and  his  voice 
sounded  like  the  Prophet.  They  knew 
by  that  sign  that  he  spoke  truth. 

But  there  also  sat  in  that  audience 
those  who  did  not,  and  who  did  not 
want  to  believe,  and  who  were  critical. 
They  saw  and  heard  nothing,  and  they 
did  not  believe,  and  they  apostatized. 
Of  those  who  believed,  you  in  this 
audience  are  their  descendants.  Those 
who  did  not  believe,  where  are  they? 

It  is  the  right  and  privilege  of  every- 
one, grown-up,  half-grown,  or  tiny,  to 
know  by  the  Spirit  that  the  President 
of  this  Church  today,  President  David 
O.  McKay,  is  a  prophet  of  the  Living 
God,  that  his  Counselors  are  prophets, 
that  the  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  and  the  Patriarch  are  prophets. 
All  of  the  rest  of  us  should  sustain 
them  in  their  holy  offices  so  that  they 
can  direct  the  work,  and  we  can  for- 
ward it  under  their  direction. 

That  testimony  every  man,  woman, 
and  child  may  know,  not  by  any  knowl- 
edge that  comes  from  books,  but  by  the 
whispering  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

I  would  that  I  were  as  simple  as  a 
little  child,  so  that  I  might  have  as  sim- 
ple a  testimony  as  has  a  child,  but  I 
do  know  that  these  things  of  which  I 
have  spoken  are  true,  I  bear  witness  of 
them  humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  2 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  concluded 
speaking. 

The  Choir  and  Congregation  will  now 
sing:  "For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills," 
after  which  we  shall  hear  Elder  Ezra 
Taft  Benson. 


The  Combined  Choruses  and  the  con- 


Third  Day 

gregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  acknowledge  the  receipt  of  a 
dozen  or  more  telegrams  from  those  who 
gathered  last  evening  in  Priesthood 
meeting  in  the  various  parts  of  the  west. 
Their  numbers  will  add  to  the  22,000 
reported  already. 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


|r  beloved  brethren  and 
sisters  and  friends:  I 
thank  God  for  that  stir- 
ring Mormon  hymn 
which  we  have  just  sung. 
["For  the  Strength  of  the 
Hills."] 

In  deep  humility  I  stand  before  you 
this  morning.  I  seek  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers,  and  the  blessings  of 
our  Heavenly  Father,  that  I  might  have 
his  Spirit  to  sustain  me. 

This  is  a  great  honor,  a  sobering  re- 
sponsibility, and  a  sacred  privilege.  I 
thrill  with  this  great  conference  and  the 
messages  that  have  been  given.  Al- 
though I  will  have  to  get  part  of  the 
messages  through  the  written  word,  I 
am  very  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  I  was 
able  to  attend  part  of  the  meetings  yes- 
terday and  to  be  here  this  morning. 
It  became  necessary  to  attend  an  im- 
portant cabinet  meeting  in  Washington 
on  Friday  and  to  stop  in  Denver  en 
route  to  Salt  Lake  City. 

I  would  like  to  say  to  you,  my  broth- 
ers and  sisters  and  friends,  that  I  am 
very  happy  to  report,  based  on  that  visit 
and  on  a  telephone  conversation  five 
minutes  before  this  session  began,  that 
the  President  of  the  United  States  con- 
tinues to  make  excellent  progress.  He 
has  been  informed  of  the  spontaneous 
prayers  that  have  ascended  to  our  Heav- 
enly Father  in  the  sessions  of  this  great 
conference,  and  more  particularly  the 
prayer  which  was  offered  in  his  behalf 
by  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  as  they  surrounded  the  sacred 
altar  in  the  temple  in  fasting  and  prayer 


on  Thursday.  Knowing  the  President 
as  a  great  and  good  man — a  man  of 
faith  and  deep  spirituality — I  know  he 
would  want  me  to  express  to  all  within 
the  sound  of  my  voice  his  gratitude  for 
the  faith  and  prayers  which  have  been 
offered. 

I  have  been  deeply  impressed  the  past 
few  years  with  the  growth  in  spirit, 
fellowship,  and  brotherhood  which 
seems  to  be  in  evidence  in  the  Church. 
For  the  past  three  years  I  have  been 
traveling  approximately  one  hundred 
thousand  miles  each  year.  Almost  every- 
where I  have  gone  I  have  been  greeted 
by  members  of  the  Church,  either 
at  the  airport  or  at  meetings — which 
they  were  not  obligated  to  attend — and 
always  there  were  expressions  of  love 
and  confidence  and  prayers  in  my  be- 
half, and  an  expression  of  interest  and 
pride  in  the  growth  of  the  Church  in 
all  the  world.  I  believe  I  have  also 
found  evidence  of  increased  faith  and 
devotion. 

It  is  quite  appropriate,  it  seems  to  me, 
that  much  reference  has  been  made  in 
this  conference  to  conditions  in  Europe 
and  the  great  events  that  have  taken 
place  there  in  recent  months:  the  dedi- 
cation of  the  temple  at  Bern;  the  break- 
ing of  ground  for  a  new  temple  in  Eng- 
land; the  announcement  of  a  possible 
third  temple.  ■,,.;»; 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  Euro- 
pean tour  of  the  choir,  the  faith  of  the 
Saints,  and  the  blessings  whieh  they 
enjoy  today  compared  with  only  a  few 
years  ago — yes,  just  a  short  decade  ago. 
I  am  very  grateful  to  President  McKay 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


107 


and  the  other  members  of  the  Presi- 
dency that  Sister  Benson  and  I  were  in- 
vited to  attend  that  glorious  dedication 
in  Bern,  Switzerland.  I  think  I  have 
never  felt  in  all  my  life  the  veil  quite 
so  thin  as  it  was  three  weeks  ago  this 
morning  as  we  met  in  the  opening  ses- 
sion of  that  dedication  service  in  that 
lovely  spot  in  the  house  of  the  Lord, 
and  as  we  listened  to  the  prayer  offered 
by  President  McKay  and  the  remarks 
which  preceded  that  prayer.  Surely  he 
was  inspired,  and  surely  we  were  all 
uplifted  and  convinced  beyond  any 
shadow  of  a  doubt  that  the  action  taken 
by  the  First  Presidency  in  extending 
temples  into  Europe  had  the  benedic- 
tion and  approval  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  I  shall  never  forget  that  glori- 
ous event  I  To  me  it  was  the  most  im- 
portant event  that  has  transpired  in 
Europe  in  118  years  since  the  gospel 
was  first  taken  to  those  shores.  I  am 
grateful  to  the  Lord  that  my  official 
duties  permitted  me  to  attend  that  dedi- 
cation, almost  in  a  miraculous  manner, 
because  had  it  not  been  for  the  post- 
ponement of  a  week  I  probably  would 
not  have  had  the  opportunity.  I  think, 
President  McKay,  that  the  postpone- 
ment was  in  part  an  answer  to  my 
prayers. 

Naturally  I  was  deeply  impressed  with 
the  contrast  between  conditions  in  Eu- 
rope in  1946  when  I  was  there  last  and 
conditions  as  we  find  them  now.  I 
have  been  going  back  in  memory,  off 
and  on  ever  since  the  dedication,  re- 
viewing in  my  mind  the  conditions 
that  existed  there  when  I  went  on  an 
emergency  mission  in  response  to  the 
First  Presidency's  call  in  1946,  and  con- 
ditions as  we  saw  them  and  as  others 
saw  them  on  this  recent  tour  of  the 
choir  and  the  visit  of  the  other  breth- 
ren and  the  dedication  of  the  temple. 
Surely  the  God  of  heaven  has  blessed 
Europe  and  the  people  of  those  coun- 
tries. It  almost  seemed  impossible  for 
me  to  realize  that  in  1946,  while 
traveling  over  60,000  miles,  most  of 
it  by  army  planes  —  unheated  planes 
with  bucket  seats — in  jeeps,  and  some 
of  it  in  wooden  railway  coaches  and  on 
army  trains — that  much  of  Europe  was 
in  complete  economic  and  spiritual  col- 
lapse; it  seemed  almost  impossible  to 
realize  the  change  that  had  come  about, 


the  comforts  that  are  available  now 
which  were  entirely  absent  then.  Then 
there  were  railway  stations  that  were 
bombed  and  blasted,  schedules  that 
were  irregular  and  undependable,  whole 
cities  laid  waste,  service  disrupted,  and 
business  paralyzed.  Now  everything 
seems  to  be  in  order — no  more  sleeping 
on  straw  beds  or  living  on  "K"  rations. 
Everything  seems  promising  and  peace- 
ful. 

The  people  too  have  changed — no 
more  shivering  with  cold;  no  more  evi- 
dence of  malnutrition;  no  more  people 
poorly  clothed  and  in  rags;  no  more 
hungry  and  starving  people,  especially 
little  children.  No  more  great  streams 
of  refugees  crowding  the  country  roads 
with  all  their  earthly  belongings  on 
their  backs;  no  more  great  hordes  of 
displaced  persons,  families  broken,  peo- 
ple discouraged,  bewildered,  frustrated, 
sick  at  heart  I  Yes,  there  has  come  a 
great  change,  and  I  thank  God  that 
his  blessings  have  been  showered  upon 
those  nations,  particularly  those  that 
have  suffered  so  much  because  of 
World  War  £L 

I  would  like  to  mention  this  morn- 
ing just  one  simple  experience  to  illus- 
trate not  only  the  changes  that  have 
come  about,  but  also  something  of  the 
influence  and  the  power  of  music  and 
the  Tabernacle  Choir.  I  have  wanted 
to  relate  this  to  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
ever  since  I  returned.  Even  though 
they  are  not  all  here  this  morning,  I 
want  to  mention  it. 

You  will  recall  the  accounts  of  the 
bombing  of  that  great  city  of  Ham- 
burg, a  great  and  proud  city,  a  great 
industrial  center.  When  we  went  there 
in  the  spring  of  1946,  it  seemed  as  if 
the  whole  city  was  a  shambles.  There 
was  nothing  but  rubble.  There  were 
no  streetcars  operating,  no  bus  lines — 
all  services  were  broken.  Everything 
seemed  to  be  broken  to  pieces.  As  I 
remember  they  estimated  that  the  city 
was  over  seventy  percent  destroyed.  A 
thousand  planes  had  swooped  down 
upon  that  city  night  after  night.  Dur- 
ing one  terrible  night — and  I  heard  the 
account  firsthand  from  many  of  our 
faithful  Saints — during  one  terrible 
night  five  of  our  six  places  of  meeting 
were  destroyed.  We  lost,  as  I  recall, 
twenty-six  members  of  the  priesthood. 


108 

Sunday,  October  2 

Then  there  followed  one  of  the  best 
demonstrations  of  the  spirit  of  the  wel- 
fare program  that  I  think  this  Church 
affords:  The  district  president  called  the 
Saints  together  and  they  brought  such 
food,  bedding,  and  clothing  as  they 
could  salvage  and  put  it  at  the  feet  of 
the  district  presidency  for  distribution 
among  the  members  of  the  Church  ac- 
cording to  need. 

While  this  experience  was  still  fresh 
in  our  minds,  we  were  meeting  at  the 
city  of  Heme  with  the  Saints  of  the 
battered  Ruhr  industrial  area  for  their 
first  district  conference  after  the  war. 
The  meeting  was  being  held  in  an  old 
bombed-out  schoolhouse.  I  do  not  re- 
call exactly  how  many  people  were 
there,  but  there  were  several  hundred. 
We  had  set  the  meeting  for  eleven 
o'clock  in  order  to  give  them  time  to 
walk  the  long  distances  many  of  them 
had  to  come,  some  of  them  carrying 
babies  in  arms  because  there  were  no 
public  conveyances  available,  and  most 
of  them  had  worn  out  their  bicycles  or 
were  unable  to  get  repair  parts. 

The  district  presidency  had  arranged, 
with  our  co-operation,  a  special  surprise 
for  the  congregation  that  morning.  From 
somewhere  they  had  obtained  an  old 
radio  which  they  had  placed  under 
cover  in  one  corner  of  the  building.  At 
a  certain  moment  in  that  service,  which 
I  shall  never  forget,  the  controls  of  that 
radio  were  turned  to  Radio  Stuttgart, 
the  American  army  radio  station  oper- 
ated by  a  Mormon  serviceman,  and  we 
heard  strains  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
float  out  over  the  audience  in  that 
stirring  and  beautiful  pioneer  song, 
"Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 

After  the  second  number,  "O  My 
Father,"  had  been  sung,  I  think  there 
was  not  a  dry  eye  among  the  adults  in 
that  audience.  I  saw  before  me  an 
audience  literally  melted  to  tears 
through  the  singing  of  Mormon  hymns 
by  our  great  choir.  It  seemed  as  if  all 
the  cares  of  those  suffering  Saints  were 
forgotten  that  morning.  Even  during 
the  thirty-minute  lunch  period — when 
the  most  common  item  for  lunch  was 
a  mixture  of  cracked  grain  and  a  little 
water  such  as  we  used  to  feed  the  baby 
chicks — even  during  the  lunch  period 
they  talked  of  their  blessings  and  ex- 
pressed their  gratitude  for  the  gospel. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Then  as  we  left  that  evening  after 
the  second  session,  the  common  expres- 
sion was,  as  we  bade  them  good-bye, 
"All  is  gut,  Brother  Benson."  Well,  all 
is  good  now  surely.  With  the  coming 
of  the  temples,  with  the  material  resto- 
ration that  has  come  to  those  countries, 
and  with  what  I  hope  is  a  deepened 
interest  in  spiritual  matters — to  which 
the  temple  will  contribute  in  great 
measure — I  hope  too  there  will  be  a 
great  increased  interest  in  things  spir- 
itual, that  those  nations  might  be  pre- 
served in  peace. 

May  God  bless  those  wonderful  peo- 
ple who  will  be  recipients  of  the  bless- 
ings of  the  temple,  provided  they  pre- 
pare themselves  for  those  blessings  by 
living  the  gospel.  And  I  sincerely  hope 
and  pray  that  not  only  they,  but  also 
all  of  us  everywhere,  will  make  that 
preparation  that  we  may  enjoy  the 
richest  blessings  known  to  men  and 
women  in  this  world  which  are  tied 
up  with  the  sacred  ordinances  and  bless- 
ings of  the  temples  of  God.  While  I 
recognize  that  there  are  many  Saints 
who  are  still  isolated  and  who  will  be 
unable,  probably,  to  reach  the  temples, 
this  movement  in  Europe  which  I  am 
sure  was  made  under  inspiration  will 
bring  the  temples  closer  to  many  thou- 
sands of  our  Father's  children. 

To  those  who  are  still  isolated  may  I 
say  this:  In  my  humble  judgment  if 
you  continue  to  live  the  gospel  and 
keep  the  commandments,  and  keep 
yourselves  pure  and  unspotted  from  the 
world,  the  Lord  will  in  some  way  make 
up  to  you  that  which  you  seem  to  be 
losing  because  it  may  not  be  possible 
for  you  to  go  to  the  temple.  You  will 
not  be  deprived  of  blessings  which 
your  lives  merit. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  much 
has  been  said  regarding  the  attitude  of 
the  world  toward  the  Church  and  king- 
dom of  which  we  are  a  part.  It  seems 
as  if  we  have  been  accepted,  as  it  were, 
by  the  world.  Much  of  praise,  much 
of  commendation,  many  favorable  com- 
ments in  the  press  and  elsewhere  have 
been  made  regarding  the  Church  in 
recent  years.  Sister  Benson  and  I  were 
delighted  as  we  traveled  officially 
through  six  countries  of  Europe.  We 
were  delighted  to  find  as  we  visited 
with  officials  of  governments  and  agri- 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


109 


cultural  leaders,  men  of  prominence,  in 
dinners  and  receptions,  and  in  informal 
meetings,  that  everywhere  there  was 
favorable  comment  regarding  the  Church 
and  its  people.  Many,  many  were  the 
conversations  we  held  regarding  the 
Church  and  its  program. 

But  I  would  like  to  raise  this  warn- 
ing, my  brothers  and  sisters.  In  this 
period  of  apparent  goodwill — good  feel- 
ing toward  the  Church — when  it  seems 
as  if  we  have  no  great  obstacles  any 
more  as  we  once  had,  there  should  be 
deep  concern.  In  my  judgment,  in  the 
hour  of  our  success  is  our  greatest  dan- 
ger. And  apparently  this  is  an  hour  of 
great  success.  No  more  persecution — 
persecution  which  once  tended  to  drive 
us  together  and  make  us  united!  Now 
we  seem  to  be  accepted  by  the  world. 
Will  it  mean  disunity?  Will  it  mean 
that  we  will  rest  on  our  laurels  and 
sit  back,  as  it  were,  and  think  that  all 
is  well  in  Zion?  I  think  there  is  real 
danger  in  this  period,  this  period  of 
praise  and  commendation.  I  am  happy 
for  it,  provided  we  be  careful,  that  we 
be  on  our  guard.  The  praise  of  the 
world  will  not  save  us.  It  will  not 
exalt  us  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  Only 
the  living  of  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel will  bring  us  salvation  and  exalta- 
tion. And  so  I  hope  that  our  perform- 
ance in  living  the  gospel  will  be  equal 
to  the  commendation  and  the  praise 
we  are  receiving,  that  our  performance 
will  at  least  equal  our  reputation,  and 
we  have  a  good  reputation.  God  grant 
that  we  may  merit  all  the  good  things 
that  have  been  said  about  us,  and  that 
more  good  things  might  be  accurately 
said  about  us  in  the  future. 

I  realize  that  the  devil  is  alert.  He 
is  the  enemy  of  this  work.  He  is  the 
enemy  of  all  righteousness,  and  I  know 
that  he  is  clever,  that  he  never  takes 
a  holiday.  He  works  overtime.  He  is 
ingenious.  I  am  confident  he  will  de- 
vise new  ways  to  fight  this  work.  We 
may  not  know  just  what  form  those 
schemes  will  take,  but  we  must  be 
vigilant. 

President  McKay,  I  thought,  very 
wisely  said  last  night  that  should  op- 
position come  the  best  way  for  us  to 
meet  it  is  to  live  to  prove  false  any  false 
accusations.  With  all  my  heart  I  en- 
dorse that  sentiment. 


But  there  is  real  danger,  my  brothers 
and  sisters.  There  is  real  danger  that 
during  this  period  we  may  let  down 
our  guard,  as  it  were;  that  we  may  be 
tempted  to  join  with  the  world  and 
adopt  some  of  their  standards  against 
which  we  have  been  warned  by  the 
Lord.  I  think  this  is  particularly  true 
in  the  social  field.  Only  recently  there 
came  to  my  attention  the  fact  that  a 
group  of  young  women,  wives,  some  of 
whose  husbands  are  employed  in  the 
government  of  the  United  States  and  of 
men  who  had  attained  a  certain  amount 
of  prominence  in  their  respective  fields, 
who  had  more  or  less  concluded  that 
in  order  to  be  accepted  by  the  world,  in 
order  that  their  husbands  might  get 
ahead  in  the  world,  they  would  have 
to  let  down  just  a  little  in  their  stand- 
ards. They  had  concluded  they  would 
have  to  serve  cocktails  and  coffee  in 
their  homes  when  friends  came. 

I  want  to  testify  to  you,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  and  particularly  to  the 
young  married  couples  of  this  Church, 
that  such  a  conclusion  is  not  only  un- 
wise and  unjustified,  but  it  is  also 
dangerous  and  can  lead  only  to  heart- 
ache and  disappointment  and  a  loss  of 
faith.  I  am  confident  that  now  more 
than  ever  before,  possibly,  is  a  time  for 
us  to  live  the  gospel,  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments, to  maintain  every  standard 
of  the  church,  and  to  be  true  to  our 
covenants.  By  so  doing  we  not  only 
guarantee  and  safeguard  our  own  fu- 
ture and  our  salvation  and  exaltation, 
but  we  will  also  tend  to  safeguard  the 
future  of  our  own  descendants  and  as- 
sure to  a  much  greater  extent  our  own 
success  in  our  chosen  fields,  no  matter 
what  those  fields  might  be. 

I  think  it  was  Nephi  who  said  that 
the  time  would  come  when  there  would 
be  a  tendency  for  people  to  become 
pacified;  they  would  be  lulled  away 
into  a  false  security;  there  would  be 
those  who  would  be  at  ease  in  Zion, 
saying,  "Zion  prospers,  all  is  well";  and 
that  the  devil  would  cheat  their  souls 
and  lead  them  carefully  down  to  hell. 
(See  2  Nephi  28:21.) 

I  think  we  need  to  be  on  the  alert 
today  to  see  that  that  does  not  happen 
in  the  Church.  I  had  occasion  many 
times  on  this  last  tour  through  Europe, 
as  I  have  had  before,  to  thank  the 


110 

Sunday,  October  2 

Lord  for  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Many 
were  the  conversations  we  had  regard- 
ing the  Church,  and  particularly  those 
my  good  wife  had,  as  we  sat  at  din- 
ners, luncheons,  etc.,  and  it  came  to 
their  attention  that  we  did  not  drink 
liquor,  smoke,  etc.  Immediately  they 
wanted  to  know  more  about  the  Church, 
and  always  there  was  commendation 
for  our  standards.  Never  once  was 
there  any  embarrassment.  Always  there 
was  a  feeling  of  gratitude  and  thanks- 
giving on  our  part  at  the  end  of  the 
day  or  evening  because  of  the  standards 
which  the  God  of  heaven  has  provided 
in  his  Church. 

This  was  the  same  no  matter  how 
high  the  station  of  the  officials  with 
whom  we  met.  And  I  say  to  you,  it  al- 
ways will  be  true  of  men  of  goodwill, 
men  of  character.  As  Latter-day  Saints 
we  cannot  afford  to  let  down  our  stand- 
ards, to  refuse  to  live  the  gospel  com- 
pletely and  fully. 

God  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  we  may  continue  a  peculiar 
people,  as  Peter  said  of  the  saints  of 
old.  He  referred  to  them  as  a  peculiar 
people.  So  are  we,  and  may  we  con- 
tinue so.  May  we  who  hold  the  priest- 
hood of  God  be  unafraid  to  step  for- 
ward and  provide  the  righteous  leader- 
ship which  is  necessary  in  our  various 
fields  of  activities!  This  is  a  time  for 
demonstration,  my  brethren  of  the 
priesthood,  to  let  the  world  know  some- 
thing of  the  fruits  of  Mormonism,  some- 
thing of  the  testimonies  which  we  bear, 
something  of  our  faith  and  our  de- 
termination to  live  the  gospel. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Yes,  let  us  do  what  is  right,  and 
we  shall  have  no  occasion  to  worry.  I 
testify  to  you  with  all  my  soul  that 
this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  is 
the  truth.  God  has  again  spoken  from 
the  heavens.  His  work  is  upon  the 
earth.  Joseph  Smith  was  in  very  deed 
a  Prophet  of  God.  The  same  power 
and  authority  which  he  bore  is  now  in 
the  hands  of  President  David  O. 
McKay. 

God  help  us  to  realize  these  facts  and 
to  heed  the  counsel  of  our  great  leader 
and  those  who  serve  as  leaders  in  the 
priesthood  everywhere,  I  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking. 

The  closing  song  by  the  Combined 
Singing  Mothers  Choruses  will  be,  "Still, 
Still  With  Thee,"  conducted  by  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.  The  clos- 
ing prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
William  Jackson  O'Bryant,  president 
of  the  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  following 
which  this  Conference  will  stand  ad- 
journed until  two  o'clock  this  after- 
noon. 

"Still,  Still  With  Thee,"  by  the  Sing- 
ing Mothers. 


Selection  by  the  Singing  Mothers 
Choruses,  "Still,  Still  With  Thee." 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  held  at  2:00  p.m.,  Sunday, 
October  2,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  Singing  Mothers 
Choruses,  under  the  direction  of  Flor- 
ence Jepperson  Madsen,  with  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  music  for  this,  the  seventh  ses- 
sion of  the  126th  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  will  be  rendered  by 
the  Combined  Singing  Mothers'  Cho- 
ruses from  Twenty-one  Stakes  in  the 
Bannock  and  East  Idaho  Regions,  and 
from  Star  Valley,  under  the  direction  of 


SUSTAINING  THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  111 

Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.  Elder  dent  of  the  Fresno  Stake,  has  just  of- 

Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ.  fered  the  invocation. 

The  Mothers  Chorus  will  now  sing,  The    Combined    Singing  Mothers 

"When  Children  Pray,"  Sister  Madsen  Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with  "Unto 

conducting,  following  which  the  open-  Thee  I  Lift  Mine  Eyes,"  conducted  by 

ing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 

Alwyn  C.   Sessions,  president   of  the  Following  the  singing  by  the  Mothers, 

Fresno  Stake.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  will  pre- 
sent for  your  consideration  and  action 


The  Singing  Mothers  Choruses  sang  the  General  Authorities,  General  Offi- 

"When  Children  Pray."  cers,  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the 

Elder  Alwyn  C.  Sessions,  President  of  Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  this 

the  Fresno  Stake,  offered  the  invocation.  General  Conference. 

President  David  O.  McKay:  ,  The  Singing  Mothers  Choruses  sang 

the  anthem,    Unto  Thee  I  Lift  Mine 
President  Alwyn  C.  Sessions,  presi-  Eyes." 

SUSTAINING  OF  THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.:  here  today  binds  the  whole  Church. 

This  is  your  one  opportunity  at  this 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  perhaps  that  Conference  to  express  your  views,  and 

beautiful  song,  so  beautifully  rendered,  I  feel  to  urge  upon  you  the  understand- 

is  a  fitting  prelude  to  the  functions  ing  that  here  you  covenant  with  the 

which  we  are  now  about  to  perform.   In  Lord  that  you  will  support  and  sus- 

the  language  of  political  science,  this  tain  those  whom  you  do  support  and 

is  a  constituent  assembly.    Your  action  sustain  by  your  vote. 

President  Clark  then  presented  for  the  vote  of  the  people  the  General  Authori- 
ties, General  Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  and  they 
were  unanimously  sustained  by  those  present.  The  list  as  presented  and  sustained 
is  as  follows: 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

Harold  B.  Lee  Marion  G.  Romney 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  LeGrand  Richards 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Mark  E.  Petersen  -  Richard  L.  Evans 
Henry  D.  Moyle  George  Q.  Morris 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

Eldred  G.  Smith 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  2  Third  Day 

The  Counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Thomas  E.  McKay  John  Longden 

Clifford  E.  Young  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Alma  Sonne  Sterling  W.  Sill 

El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

As  Trustee- in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Presiding  Bishopric: 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

A.  William  Lund,  Assistant 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Stephen  L  Richards  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Marion  G.  Romney 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  LeGrand  Richards 

Harold  B.  Lee  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  George  Q.  Morris 
Mark  E.  Petersen 

Ernest  L.  Wilkinson,  Administrator 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 


SUSTAINING  THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 


CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 


Advisers 


Harold  B.  Lee 


El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 
John  Longden 
Antoine  R.  Ivins 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
Carl  W.  Buehner 


Henry  D.  Moyle 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Thomas  E.  McKay 
Clifford  E.  Young 
Alma  Sonne 


and  the  General  Presidency  of  the  Relief  Society. 

General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  Nebeker  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Paul  C.  Child 
T.  C.  Stayner 
Mark  B.  Garff 


W.  T.  Lawrence 
Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 
Walter  Dansie 
LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 
Walter  Stover 


Leonard  E.  Adams 
J.  Leonard  Love 


Relief  Society 


Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 


114 

Sunday,  October  2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


Primary  Association     .  ~ 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  I  was  able  to  see,  the  voting  was  unanimous  in 
the  affirmative. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  thank  you,  brethren  and  sisters, 
for  your  unanimous  vote. 
Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will 


be  Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  He  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


|  Y  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS:  I 

sincerely  seek  an  interest 
in  your  faith  and  prayers, 
that  what  I  shall  under- 
take to  say  in  the  next 
few  minutes  may  be  di- 
rected by  the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  and  may  be  delivered  in  a  spirit 
of  love  and  fellowship,  for  I  love  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  and  I  love  his  people; 
I  love  to  work  with  them. 

I  have  been  interested  in  this  confer- 
ence, especially  interested  in  the  many 
references  that  have  been  made  to  the 
foreign  missionary  work  and  to  the 
newly  completed  temple  in  Switzerland. 
Those  references  have  caused  me  to  re- 
flect upon  the  purposes  of  temples.  We 
have  had  some  instruction  already  as 
to  why  we  build  them.  It  seems  to 
me  that  so  far  as  a  newly  erected  tem- 
ple is  concerned,  perhaps  its  major  pur- 
pose would  be  to  take  care  of  the  living, 
because  I  believe  the  accommodations 
of  those  already  existent  would  take 
care  of  the  vicarious  work  that  we  have 
available  at  the  present  time.  So  this 
newly  erected  temple  is  likely  to  be 
most  beneficial  for  the  living  people  of 
Europe.  They  who  have  never  had  the 
experience  of  an  endowment  in  the 
temple  before,  will  receive  a  wonderful 
uplift  in  their  spirituality  as  they  enjoy 
this  rare  and  wonderful  privilege  which 
is  given  to  us  in  the  temples  of  God. 

The  priesthood  has  for  its  purpose 
integrating  into  the  lives  of  people  the 
ordinances  and  the  benefits  of  the  gos- 


pel of  Jesus  Christ.  The  greatest  and 
most  supreme  of  all  of  these  blessings 
comes  to  us  through  the  administration 
of  the  priesthood  in  the  temples  of  God 
and  in  no  other  place  and  were  this 
new  temple  limited  to  the  benefits  the 
people  receive  in  mortality,  its  erection 
and  administration  would  be  amply 
justified,  but  the  benefits  of  these 
ordinances  when  they  are  carried 
through  to  their  ultimate  end,  are  not 
limited  to  mortality.  They  penetrate 
the  veil  between  mortality  and  eternity, 
giving  people  advantages  which  are  past 
our  understanding.  Really,  they  are  so 
sublime  and  wonderful  that  they  stagger 
our  imagination. 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  are 
told  that  any  man  who  can  attain  to 
the  magnification  of  all  of  his  duties  in 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  would  and 
will  ultimately  attain  to  the  powers  of 
God. 

No  man  who  goes  into  a  temple  and 
is  content  with  receiving  his  own  en- 
dowments realizes  the  full  possibilities 
that  the  temple  offers  him.  He  only 
who  takes  a  wife  into  the  temple  and 
is  sealed  to  her  for  time  and  all  eternity 
can  ultimately  attain  to  the  tremendous 
and  wonderful  blessings  that  are  held 
out  as  an  inducement  for  righteous  liv- 
ing. That  seems  to  me  to  be  the  sub- 
lime and  supreme  distinction  between 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  and  all  other  religious  denomina- 
tions. 

During  the  last  year,  1954,  and  this 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


115 


year  up  to  the  present,  as  we  have 
ministered  among  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
there  has  been  placed  in  our  hands  an 
item,  a  statistical  item  relative  to  the 
numbers  of  people  who  avail  themselves 
of  this  grand  and  glorious  privilege.  I 
have  kept  account  of  the  stakes  I  visited 
last  year  and  this.  Last  year  there  were 
reported  1811  marriages  in  the  stakes 
that  I  visited,  and  I  was  surprised  to 
learn  that  less  than  half  of  them  were 
consummated  in  the  temple,  a  fifth  of 
them  involving  people  who  were  not 
members  of  the  Church. 

It  is  an  astonishing  thing.  I  rather 
feel  to  regard  that  as  an  unsatisfactory 
percentage.  There  may  be  people  who 
think  it  is  perhaps  all  that  could  be 
expected,  but  I  do  not.  I  think  that  we 
ought  to  strive  to  increase  that  per- 
centage, and  then  once  you  make  up 
your  mind  that  that  should  be  an  in- 
centive and  an  objective,  the  question 
then  is:  Where  are  you  going  to  start 
to  bring  about  an  improvement? 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  duty  of  teach- 
ing people  who  are  approaching  mar- 
riageable age,  the  advantages  of  celes- 
tial and  eternal  marriage,  first,  and 
always,  is  with  the  parents.  Then  I 
wonder  how  parents  who  have  not 
availed  themselves  of  that  privilege  and 
who  hardly  live  so  as  to  impress  their 
children  with  the  desirability  of  per- 
petuating the  marriage  relationship,  can 
expect  so  to  impress  their  children.  I 
have  come  to  decide,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  the  place  to  start  is  not  with 
the  young  folk,  but  with  the  old  folk, 
to  get  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  young 
people  fully  to  appreciate  the  advan- 
tages, the  wonderful  advantages  of  celes- 
tial marriage,  and  then  to  present  to 
their  growing  children  an  example 
which  will  make  marriage,  a  marriage 
for  eternity,  attractive  to  them. 

If  the  parents  do  not  do  it,  where 
can  we  lay  the  responsibility  for  it? 
We  have  a  good  many  agencies  that 
are  supposed  to  supplement  the  efforts 
of  the  parents,  brethren  and  sisters,  but 
it  seems  to  me  that  fathers  and  mothers 
can  never  escape  the  responsibility  for 
this  instruction. 

So  it  behooves  us  to  live  to  be  worthy 
of  it.  If  we  have  not  already  availed 
ourselves  of  the  opportunity  to  bring 
our   lives   into  conformity   with  the 


standards  of  the  gospel  so  that  we  can 
avail  ourselves  of  that  privilege,  what 
example  do  we  set  as  a  lesson  to  our 
children?  Words  fall  flat  when  they 
do  not  show  in  the  example  of  the 
parents  the  value  of  the  teaching. 

So  I  believe  that  is  where  we  ought 
to  begin,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  there 
are  many  of  us  who  can  take  it  to 
heart.  I  am  sure  there  is  a  wonderful 
percentage  of  people  who  make  every 
possible  effort  to  magnify  their  calling 
and  obligation,  but  there  are  many 
others  of  us  who  do  not.  We  let  jeal- 
ousy and  hatred  and  other  things  enter 
into  family  relationships  which  disrupt 
them  and  disturb  them,  resulting  too 
frequently  in  the  dissolution  of  the 
union,  and  all  of  that  is  not  right, 
brethren  and  sisters.  It  is  not  right, 
and  it  behooves  us  as  fathers  and  moth- 
ers to  set  the  example  and  then  give 
the  instruction.  That  instruction  should 
be  subtle.  It  should  be  attractive.  It 
should  be  convincing. 

Then  to  supplement  the  efforts  of  the 
father  and  the  mother,  we  have  the 
bishopric  of  the  ward.  We  had  a  won- 
derful film  on  the  responsibility  of  a 
bishop  the  other  night.  There  have 
been  bishops  in  the  Church  who  have 
seen  and  used  the  opportunity  that  is 
theirs  to  instruct  their  young  people 
when  they  approach  marriageable  age 
in  the  advantages  of  celestial  and 
eternal  marriage.  There,  again,  is  the 
closest  contact  I  believe  that  we  have 
in  the  Church  to  supplement  the  efforts 
of  the  fathers  and  the  mothers.  And 
if  fathers  and  mothers  and  bishops  and 
auxiliary  associations  should  combine 
in  a  serious  effort  to  teach  this  truth,  I 
believe  we  could  make  it  so  attractive 
that  the  evils  which  befall  many  of  our 
young  people  would  cease  to  be  attrac- 
tive to  them,  and  they  would  develop 
a  strength  in  their  youth  which  would 
carry  them  through  all  their  future  lives 
in  honorable  service  to  God,  our  Heav- 
enly Father,  and  in  righteous  living. 

Now  what  will  we  do  about  it?  We 
cannot  dream  ourselves  into  it,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  and  if  any  single  one 
who  is  here  today  finds  opportunity, 
he  should  start  action  at  once  to  correct 
his  life  and  make  it  appropriate  for  the 
realization  of  these  grand  and  glorious 
principles  and  privileges. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  2 

The  greatest  result  of  such  living  is 
the  union  of  a  man  and  a  woman  for 
time  and  eternity,  sealed  by  the  Holy 
Spirit  of  Promise,  with  the  power  of 
eternal  increase,  an  attribute  of  God- 
hood.  ".  .  .  all  that  my  Father  hath 
shall  be  given  unto  him"  (D&C  84:38) 
is  the  promise  made  to  the  man  who  re- 


Third  Day 

ceives  and  magnifies  the  priesthood. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Antoine  R.  Ivins  has  just 
concluded  speaking.  He  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


his  has  been  a  stirring  confer- 
ence, my  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  I  trust  that  the  few  min- 
utes I  may  occupy  I  may 
catch  its  spirit  in  the  prayer 
that  was  uttered  at  the  be- 
ginning of  this  session.  We  have  al- 
ways had  beautiful  music  at  these  ses- 
sions. Today's  singing  was  music  at 
its  best.  While  this  group  of  mothers 
sang,  I  looked  over  the  brethren  down 
below,  and  I  think  I  got  a  new  mean- 
ing to  the  Eighth  Psalm: 

What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mindful  of 
him?  and  the  son  of  man,  that  thou  visitest 
him? 

For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little  lower 
than  the  angels.  .  .  .  (Psalm  8:4-5.) 

When  they  sang  that  first  song, 
'When  Children  Pray,"  I  was  reminded 
of  the  experience  of  the  little  fellow, 
two-and-a-half,  who  was  sitting  at  the 
table  and  was  asked  to  say  the  bless- 
ing. He  had  his  hands  crossed  over 
his  eyes,  said  the  author,  "The  better 
to  peek  through,"  and  then  offered  his 
prayer,  understandable  only  to  his  moth- 
er— and  one  other.  I  am  sure  this 
choir  has  brought  us  into  the  spirit  of 
Him  who  understands. 

It  is  an  honor  to  follow  the  leadership 
of  this  great  First  Presidency  and  to 
labor  in  the  fellowship  of  my  Brethren 
of  the  General  Authorities.  The  evi- 
dence of  this  conference,  I  think,  must 
be  convincing  to  all  of  you  that  they 
are  strong,  devoted  men.  I  give  you 
my  witness  that  they  are  men  of  God. 

As  we  walked  out  of  the  morning  ses- 
sion, I  shook  hands  with  Sister  John 
A.  Widtsoe,  the  wife  of  the  man  whom 
I  had  the  honor  to  follow  into  this  quo- 
rum. As  we  threaded  our  way  through 


the  narrow  lane  that  is  prepared  down 
there  in  the  great  crowd  that  gathers 
around  the  car  of  our  President,  Sister 
Widtsoe  said,  "The  soul  of  people  hun- 
gers for  an  ideal."  I  was  impressed  that 
it  may  be  that  same  hunger  that  prompts 
us  to  believe  in  God.  There  are  so  many 
evidences,  the  mystery  to  me  is  not  that 
men  may  believe  in  God,  but  as  Ballard 
once  wrote,  "the  great  miracle  of  man- 
kind is  the  miracle  of  unbelief." 

Dinmore  has  put  it  beautifully:  "If 
no  help  had  ever  come  from  God,  the 
impulse  to  pray  would  have  died  out 
long  ago." 

Among  the  stirring  things  of  this  con- 
ference is  the  living  evidence  here  to- 
day of  Thomas  E.  McKay  and  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin.  They  have  been 
so  critically  ill  that  man's  power  alone 
could  never  have  made  it  possible  for 
them  to  give  the  witness  they  have  given 
in  this  conference. 

The  other  night  as  I  read  into  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  I  turned  to  the  book 
of  Ether,  wherein  is  this  remarkable 
passage: 

Wherefore,  whoso  believeth  in  God  might 
with  surety  hope  for  a  better  world,  yea, 
even  a  place  at  the  right  hand  of  God,  which 
hope  cometh  of  faith,  maketh  an  anchor  to 
the  souls  of  men,  which  would  make  them 
sure  and  steadfast,  always  abounding  in  good 
works,  being  led  to  glorify  God.  (Ether  12:4.) 

As  I  pondered  the  meaning  of  an 
anchor,  I  was  impressed  that  faith  is 
that  anchor.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing 
to  be  anchored  to  the  truth  of  Almighty 
God  through  faith  which  bids  us  to 
know  that  he  lives.  But  faith  is  more 
than  an  anchor.  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
if  I  have  a  theme  for  these  few  minutes, 
it  centers  in  the  thought  of  the  faith 


ELDER  ADAM 

which  impels  us  to  action.  Faith  is  a 
dynamic  thing.  Faith  is  an  adventurous 
term. 

I  was  so  much  impressed  a  couple  of 
nights  ago  with  the  declaration  of 
Pee  Wee  Reese,  the  great  little  shortstop 
of  the  Brooklyn  Dodgers.  (In  case  any- 
one did  not  get  the  word  during  the 
noon  hour  today,  the  Dodgers  won 
again.*)  You  will  remember  in  this 
series,  the  Yanks  had  taken  the  first  two 
games,  and  historically  the  record 
seemed  to  indicate  that  no  team  which 
ever  lost  the  first  two  games  ever  came 
back  to  take  the  series.  So  the  com- 
mentator asked  PeeWee  Reese  what  he 
thought  of  that. 

"Well,"  said  Reese,  "I  know  what  the 
record  is,  but  sometime  it  ought  to  be 
broken,  and  I  believe  we  have  the  team 
this  year  to  do  it." — I  do  not  want  to 
be  partisan. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  faith  exists  in 
every  field  of  activity.  It  is  faith — it 
is  confidence — that  risks  everything  for 
the  pearl  of  great  price.  The  scientist 
watching  the  test  tube  does  it  in  terms 
of  faith.  The  men  these  days  who  are 
searching  for  a  cure  against  polio  have 
been  following  the  lead  of  faith  these 
many  years.  A  neighbor  of  mine  de- 
votes his  entire  life  and  plans  to  dedi- 
cate his  life  to  the  search  for  something 
that  will  prevent  the  hardening  of  the 
arteries.  It  is  faith  that  prompts  men 
to  move  toward  their  coveted  goal  al- 
ways. Really,  it  is  faith  that  prompts 
a  teacher  to  try  to  inspire  students  with 
the  thought  that  there  is  a  better  life 
ahead. 

I  wish  I  had  the  magic  to  give  to  the 
teachers  of  our  own  schools,  and  to  all 
others,  the  precious  formula  that  was 
given  to  me  when  first  we  went  east  to 
go  on  with  advanced  training.  My 
mother,  who  had  had  none  of  it,  said, 
"All  right  son,  get  all  of  it  you  can." 
Then  she  gave  me  a  farewell  message 
that  has  rung  in  my  ears  ever  since: 
"Get  all  the  learning  you  can,  son,  but 
don't  ever  let  it  destroy  your  faith." 
God  bless  her  for  that  admonition. 


•After  losing  the  first  two  games  of  the  World 
Series  to  the  New  York  Yankees,  Brooklyn  won  three 
straight  games.  The  day  following  Elder  Bennion's 
address  the  Yankees  won  again,  but  Brooklyn  won 
the  seventh,  and  concluding  game. 


S.  BENNION  117 

The  Faith  of  the  Scriptures 

I.  Now,  in  these  brief  minutes  I  am 
going  to  lead  your  thinking  to  the  faith 
of  the  scriptures.  I  think  I  shall  beg 
leave  to  print  in  the  interest  of  time. 
There  are  wonderful  passages.  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  the  more  I  read  the  scrip- 
tures, the  more  I  am  impressed  that  the 
great  echo  through  the  scriptures  is  an 
echo  of  faith  and  of  love  and  of  obedi- 
ence. When  you  put  the  three  of  them 
together,  you  have  a  great  formula  for 
proofreading  all  the  experiences  of  life. 

For  those  who  receive  it  in  faith,  and 
work  righteousness,  shall  receive  a  crown  of 
eternal  life.  (See  D  &  C  20:14.) 

Now  faith  is  the  substance  of  things  hoped 
for,  the  evidence  of  things  not  seen. 

For  by  it  the  elders  obtained  a  good  report. 

Through  faith  we  understand  that  the 
worlds  were  framed  by  the  word  of  God, 
so  that  things  which  are  seen  were  not 
made  of  things  which  do  appear.  (Hebrews 
11:1-3.) 

I  love  to  read  the  life  and  story  of 
Abraham  and  of  Nephi,  and  both  of 
them  echo  the  same  sentiment. 

By  faith  Abraham,  when  he  was  called 
to  go  out  into  a  place  which  he  should  after 
receive  for  an  inheritance,  obeyed;  and  he 
went  out,  not  knowing  whither  he  went. 
(Ibid.,  11:8.) 

Read  1  Nephi,  chapters  2  and  3,  the 
glorious  experience  of  Nephi,  who  be- 
lieved he  could  get  the  plates  from 
Laban,  against  the  doubt  of  his  brother, 
Laman,  who  was  sure  he  could  not. 
Read  those  two  chapters  to  find  the 
power  of  faith  and  the  emptiness  of 
doubt  and  disbelief. 

The  kind  of  faith  that  I  have  in  mind 
is  the  kind  that  always  leads  into  works. 
I  am  mindful  of  James'  injunction, 

But  wilt  thou  know,  O  vain  man,  that 
faith  without  works  is  dead?  (James  2:20.) 

Yea,  a  man  may  say,  Thou  hast  faith, 
and  I  have  works:  shew  me  thy  faith  with- 
out thy  works,  and  I  will  shew  thee  my 
faith  by  my  works.  (Ibid.,  2:18.) 

But  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to 
please  him:  for  he  that  cometh  to  God 
must  believe  that  he  is,  and  that  he  is  a 
rewarder  of  them  that  diligently  seek  him. 
(Hebrews  11:6.) 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  2 

Consider  these  further  meaningful 
scriptures: 

For  as  the  body  without  the  spirit  is 
dead,  so  faith  without  works  is  dead  also. 
(James  2:26.) 

And  Christ  truly  said  unto  our  fathers: 
If  ye  have  faith  ye  can  do  all  things  which 
are  expedient  unto  me.  (Moroni  10:23.) 

And  except  ye  have  charity  ye  can  in  no- 
wise be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God; 
neither  can  ye  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of 
God  if  ye  have  not  faith;  neither  can  ye 
if  ye  have  no  hope.  (Ibid.,  10:21.) 

Ask  the  Father  in  my  name,  in  faith  be- 
lieving that  you  shall  receive,  and  you  shall 
have  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  manifesteth 
all  things  which  are  expedient  unto  the 
children  of  men. 

And  if  you  have  not  faith,  hope,  and 
charity,  you  can  do  nothing.  (D  &  C  18:18- 
19.) 

But  after  repenting,  and  humbling  him- 
self sincerely,  through  faith,  God  min- 
istered unto  him  by  an  holy  angel,  whose 
countenance  was  as  lightning,  and  whose 
garments  were  pure  and  white  above  all 
other  whiteness;  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  20:6.) 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  Lord  spake 
unto  me,  saying:  Blessed  art  thou,  Nephi, 
because  of  thy  faith,  for  thou  hast  sought 
me  diligently,  with  lowliness  of  heart.  (1 
Nephi  2:19.) 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi,  said 
unto  my  father:  I  will  go  and  do  the  things 
which  the  Lord  hath  commanded,  for  I 
know  that  the  Lord  giveth  no  command- 
ments unto  the  children  of  men,  save  he 
shall  prepare  a  way  for  them  that  they 
may  accomplish  the  thing  which  he  com- 
mandeth  them.  (Ibid.,  3:7.) 

We  believe  that  the  first  principles  and 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are:  first,  Faith 
in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  second,  Repent- 
ance; third,  Baptism  by  immersion  for  the 
remission  of  sins;  fourth,  Laying  on  of 
hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
(Fourth  Article  of  Faith.) 

The  Faith  of  Our  Fathers 

II.  The  second  thought  I  want  to 
leave  with  you  is  the  faith  of  our 
fathers.  What  a  wonderful  place  to 
contemplate  the  faith  of  our  forebears. 
Before  you  go  out  this  afternoon  from 
these  grounds,  won't  you  take  one  more 
look  at  the  Seagull  Monument  and  read 
the    inscription   on   the   north  side: 


Third  Day 

"Erected  in  grateful  remembrance  of  the 
mercy  of  God  to  the  Mormon  Pioneers." 
When  you  gather  in  this  edifice,  you 
must  think  of  the  faith  of  men  who 
from  1863  to  1867  toiled  to  build  it— 
to  1870  to  complete  the  balcony.  As 
you  look  now  at  the  pipes  in  this  great 
organ,  you  must  be  mindful  that  some 
of  them  were  made  possible  only  be- 
cause the  pioneers  discovered  certain 
kinds  of  timber  three  hundred  miles  to 
the  south. 

I  talked  the  other  day  with  a  grand- 
son of  a  man  who  helped  to  saw  that 
timber,  and  he  said  it  took  eighteen 
yoke  of  oxen  to  drag  the  tree  from  where 
it  grew  to  the  location  of  the  saw  that 
had  been  set  up.  Then  by  ox  team  they 
had  the  problem  of  bringing  it  three 
hundred  miles  to  this  square — and  over 
what  roads!  Men  without  faith  never 
would  have  done  itl 

I  go  out  through  these  grounds,  and 
though  I  have  said  it  many  times,  will 
you  let  me  say  it  again:  The  privilege 
that  is  ours  at  times  to  bring  visitors 
to  this  spot  always  inclines  me  to  take 
them  to  the  southeast  corner,  for  when 
our  grandfathers  lived  in  log  cabins  such 
as  you  see  out  there,  they  were  dream- 
ing dreams  of  the  temple  into  which 
they  put  forty  years  of  effort  and  four 
millions  of  dollars,  which  they  did  not 
have.  That  is  faith  I 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  glori- 
ous experience  of  the  choir,  and  I  under- 
stand every  place  they  sang  "Come, 
Come  Ye  Saints"  they  were  encored 
again  and  again.  We  sing  it  frequently. 
Let  me  read  the  third  verse  again.  Wil- 
liam Clayton  was  not  speculating  about 
their  arrival  here.  He  said: 

We'll  find  the  place  which  God  for  us 

prepared, 
Far  away  in  the  West, 
Where  none ;  shall  come  to  hurt  or  make 

afraid; 

There  the  Saints  will  be  blessed.  ;  " 
We'll  make  the  air  with  music  ring,  : 
Shout  praises  to  our  God  and  King; 
Above  the  rest  these  words  we'll  tell —  ,Z 
All  is  well!  AH  is  well! 


Do  you  know  what  he  was  doing 
when  he  wrote  that?  It  was  on  the 
15th  of  April  between'  Nauvoo  and 
Winter.  Quarters,  one  of  the  toughest 
trips  that  any  people  ever  took.   I  beg 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


119 


of  you  to  remember  that  six  hundred 
people  lost  their  lives  in  those  three 
hundred  miles.  He  had  been  sick  much 
of  the  time.  Pick  up  his  journal  and 
read  the  first  twenty  pages — the  little 
journal  of  William  Clayton.  He  had 
been  ill.  His  wife,  Diantha,  was  still 
ill — too  ill  to  travel.  As  you  read  those 
twenty  pages,  you  will  notice  how  often 
he  was  writing  a  letter  to  be  sent  back 
to  his  wife,  hoping  that  she  would  be 
well.  Then  came  the  glad  news  that 
she  had  given  birth  to  a  son,  she  herself 
too  ill  to  move.  She  struggled  against 
the  ague  and  against  the  mumps.  He 
himself  was  sick,  but  the  morning — I 
love  to  read  this — the  morning  the  word 
came  that  he  had  a  son — notice  the 
practicality  of  it — he  said  they  had  been 
spending  the  day  in  a  search,  for  "Henry 
Terry's  horses  are  missing.  They've 
been  hunted  all  day,  but  are  not  found 
yet.  This  morning  I  composed  a  new 
song,  'All  is  Well.'  I  feel  to  thank  my 
Heavenly  Father  for  my  boy,  and  pray 
that  he  will  spare  and  preserve  his  life 
and  that  of  his  mother,  and  so  order 
that  it  be  soon  that  we  may  be  together 
again."  He  asked  President  Brigham 
Young,  "Could  they  not  send  back  and 
bring  her  along?"  and  President  Young 
said,  "You  may." 

I  tried  to  conjure  up  last  night  that 
as  William  Clayton  talked  to  Brigham 
Young  about  the  new  song  he  had  just 
written,  whether  either  one  of  them 
could  ever  have  imagined,  even  in  fancy, 
that  a  hundred  years  later  379  voices  ef 
the  choir  would  take  that  same  hymn 
and  sing  it  to  60,000  people  in  Europe. 
And  yet  they  did  it.  And  we  live  today 
under  the  reflected  glory  of  that  choir. 
That's  faith  in  its  fulfilment. 

Brigham  Young  said  these  remarkable 
things: 

I  do  not  wish  men  to  understand  I  had 
anything  to  do  with  our~'oeing  moved  here; 
that:  was  the  providence  of  the  Almighty; 
it  was  the  power  of  God  that  wrought  out 
salvation  for  this  people;  I  never  could  have 
devised  such  a  plan.  .  .  .  We  have  faith, 
we  live  my  faith;  we  came  to  these  mountains 
by  faith.  We  came  here,  I:  often  say, 
though  to  the  ears  of  some  the  expression 
may  sound  rude,  naked  and  barefoot,  and 
comparatively  this,  is  true.  .  .  ".  We  had  to 
have  faith  to  come  here.  When  we  ,  met 
Mr.  Bridger :  on  the':  Big  Sandy  River,  •  said 
he,  "Mr.  Young,' I  would  give  a '  thousand 


dollars  if  I  knew  an  ear  of  corn  could  be 
ripened  in  the  Great  Basin."  Said  I,  "Wait 
eighteen  months  and  I  will  show  you  many 
of  them."  Did  I  say  this  from  knowledge? 
No,  it  was  my  faith;  but  we  had  not  the 
least  encouragement — from  natural  rea- 
soning and  all  that  we  could  learn  of  this 
country — of  its  sterility,  its  cold  and  frost, 
to  believe  that  we  could  ever  raise  anything. 
But  we  travelled  on,  breaking  the  road 
through  the  mountains  and  building  bridges 
until  we  arrived  here,  and  then  we  did 
everything  we  could  to  sustain  ourselves. 
We  had  faith  that  we  could  raise  grain; 
was  there  any  harm  in  this?  Not  at  all. 
If  we  had  not  had  faith,  what  would  have 
become  of  us?  We  would  have  gone  down 
in  unbelief,  have  closed  up  every  resource 
for  our  sustenance  and  should  never  have 
raised  anything.  (History  of  Brigham  Young, 
Ms.  3:95.) 

The  Faith  of  Tomorrow 

III.  Then  I  wanted  you  to  take  just  a 
brief  look  at  what  I  like  to  call  the  faith 
of  tomorrow.  I  was  impressed  a  little 
while  back  at  a  convention  in  Chicago 
of  the  young  people  of  that  town.  They 
said  they  were  getting  a  little  tired  of 
those  screaming  headlines  each  day 
about  some  wild  exploit  of  some  wild 
youngster,  so  they  gathered  themselves 
together,  and  they  made  a  study.  They 
took  a  look  at  police  records  in  Chicago, 
and  they  discovered  that  of  all  the  juve- 
nile delinquency  cases  that  came  before 
the  court  in  Chicago  in  Cook  County, 
all  were  attributable  to  three  percent 
of  the  population,  and  they  made  a  plea 
in  that  convention:  "Let's  not  forget 
the  ninety-seven  percent  as  we  brand 
the  immaturity  of  the  three."  Then 
they  said  what  to  me  was  a  wonder- 
ful thing:  "We  pledge  ourselves  to  live 
so  as  to  honor  and  revere  our  parents, 
to  be  decent  ourselves,  and  to  prepare 
ourselves  to  defend  this  nation — so  to 
live  that  those  whose  names  we  bear 
will  be  proud  we  came  along."  That 
gives  a  man  faith  in  a  new  generation! 

This  has  been  a  wonderful  year  to 
me.  A  year  ago  now  I  was  not  here. 
I  give  you  my  witness  along  with 
Brother  Wirthlin  and  Brother  Thomas 
E. McKay  that  the  God  who  lives  an- 
swers prayers.  I  give  you  my  witness 
that  that  same  God  can  carry  the  bene- 
diction of  the  faith  of  these  people  to 
President  Eisenhower.    May  it  be  so. 

I  want  to  close  with  two  or  three  con- 


120  GENERAL  O 

Sunday,  October  2 

crete  cases  which  out  of  this  year  have 
thrilled  me.  We  go  to  these  stakes 
week  after  week  and  come  back  so  built 
up,  so  reinforced,  so  strengthened!  We 
love  you  people  for  your  faith.  We  are 
grateful  for  the  prayers  you  utter  for  us, 
and  we  return  them  in  the  councils  of 
these  good  brethren. 

A  young  couple  came  into  the  office 
the  other  day,  and  the  girl  said,  "We've 
always  wanted  him  to  go  on  a  mission. 
Either  he  didn't  get  the  call  or  the 
circumstances  were  not  quite  right,  but 
he  has  not  gone.  Now  we  have  a  little 
baby,  but  that  ambition  still  burns." 
Then  she  said,  "I  have  made  arrange- 
ments so  I  can  work  to  support  myself 
and  the  baby  and  have  a  good  bit  to- 
wards his  keep.  Is  it  possible  that  he 
can  go?"   You  love  that  kind  of  faith! 

Reference  has  been  made  in  this  con- 
ference to  Brother  Nebeker  of  Bear  Lake. 
He  went  on  his  mission  after  the  chil- 
dren had  come,  and  one  of  the  dramatic 
things,  in  my  judgment,  in  Bear  Lake 
is  the  day  when  his  wife  wrapped  her 
skirt  loosely  around  the  children  as 
she  waved  good-bye  to  the  husband 
who  rode  horseback  to  make  his  train 
connection,  and  said,  "In  a  situation 
like  this  the  only  things  that  help  are 
work  and  prayer." 

A  few  short  weeks  ago  in  Hawaii  I 
had  the  privilege  of  giving  a  blessing 
to  two  Japanese  girls,  lovely  young 
people,  the  only  ones  out  of  their  fam- 
ilies to  come  into  the  Church.  They 
were  willing  to  bid  good-bye  to  the  fam- 
ily circle.  They  had  faith  that  this  is 
the  work  of  God,  and  they  wanted  to 
go  on  a  mission.  They  want  to  go 
among  their  own  people  and  carry  this 
great  message  to  them. 

Then  let  me  take  you,  as  I  close,  to 
Cumorah.  I  could  pay  tribute  to  the 
wonderful  boys  and  girls  in  the  mis- 
sions of  the  great  Northwest.  President 
McMurrin,  we  are  grateful  to  you  for 
the  notable  job  you  have  done.  I  look 
down  at  Brother  Steed  and  President 
Taylor,  and  I  am  grateful  for  the  great 
theater  that  they  have  built  against  the 
Hill  Cumorah.  There  are  stirring  things 
in  life,  but  to  stand  against  that  hill, 
with  only  the  darkness  of  the  night  for 
a  curtain,  and  then  have  the  four 
trumpeters  come  out  on  the  top  of  that 
hill  and  play  "An  Angel  from  on  High"! 


Third  Day 

Then  sit  through  the  evenings  that  at- 
tracted 54,000  people  to  witness  the 
pageant,  and  then  go  through  four  days 
of  testimony  in  the  Sacred  Grove! 

I  want  to  take  you  into  that  Sacred 
Grove  for  just  a  minute.  We  had  lis- 
tened through  those  four  days  to  248 
wonderful  young  men  and  women — 
missionaries,  and  students  from  Brig- 
ham  Young  University — if  you  could 
have  heard  them,  you  would  have  been 
proud,  too.  They  all  bore  wonderful 
witness,  but  included  in  that  Sunday 
service,  attended  by  some  750  people, 
were  two  women  I  shall  never  forget, 
both  of  them  brought  up  in  wheelchairs 
to  the  little  platform  that  stands  in  the 
Grove. 

One  of  them,  Sister  Louise  Lake,  has 
a  sublime  faith,  the  faith  that  one  day 
she  will  walk  again.  God  grant  her 
that  request.  The  other  girl,  a  Miss 
Brown  from  Connecticut,  who  said,  as 
she  was  wheeled  up,  "I  know  that  I 
shall  never  walk  again" — misshapen 
limbs,  which  under  palsy  she  has  such 
a  hard  time  to  control.  She  said  that 
when  that  disease  first  struck  her,  she 
was  numbed  for  awhile,  and  she  was 
bitter  for  a  while,  but  she  said,  "I  have 
risen  above  all  that" — and  I  think  when 
she  was  through,  there  wasn't  a  dry  eye 
in  the  grove.  The  young  people  who 
heard  Miss  Brown  that  day  will  never 
forget.  She  said,  "Crippled  as  I  am  in 
my  body,  I  rejoice  that  my  spirit  is  still 
intact.  I  have  the  faith  to  believe  that 
one  day,  either  here  or  elsewhere,  God 
will  work  out  the  healing  of  my  body — 
and  while  I  live,  let  me  never  com- 
plain, but  let  me  go  about  bearing  my 
witness  to  his  goodness." 

This  has  been  a  wonderful  conference. 
God  bless  you  to  go  out  in  the  spirit 
of  faith,  the  spirit  that  bids  us  to  make 
a  rededication  of  our  lives  and  our 
services.  We  can  all  pray;  we  can  all 
labor;  we  can  all  gather  the  family 
around  us;  we  can  attend  our  services; 
and  we  can  do  some  good  for  somebody. 
In  the  spirit  of  that  kind  of  faith,  I 
ask  God  to  bless  you  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen  will  suc- 
ceed Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion  of  the 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


121 


Council  of  the  Twelve  who  has  just 
spoken  to  us. 


We  shall  now  hear  Elder  El  Ray  L. 
Christiansen,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


am  so  grateful,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  for  the  blessings 
that  have  come  to  me  from 
this  conference.  I  have 
thought  of  it  in  this  way: 
"If  thy  brother  ask  thee  to  go 
with  him  one  mile,  go  with  him  twain." 
(See  Matt.  5:41.)  As  someone  put  it: 
"The  first  is  an  obligation;  the  second, 
a  consecration." 

I  have  made  up  my  mind  that  hence- 
forth, because  of  the  marvelous  things 
that  have  been  said  here,  I  will  be  more 
determined  to  dedicate  that  which  I 
have  in  the  way  of  energy  and  sub- 
stance to  the  work  of  the  Lord  here 
upon  the  earth — more  determined  than 
I  have  ever  been  before. 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  life  of  a 
Latter-day  Saint  is  intended  to  be  a 
life  of  dedication  and  of  consecration 
to  the  things  of  God.  The  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  a  program  for  the  per- 
fecting of  the  individual  member  by  his 
adherence  to  the  principles  of  that  gos- 
pel. It  is  designed  to  teach  us  to  for- 
get ourselves,  to  be  unselfish.  I  have 
come  to  think  that  selfishness  on  the 
part  of  those  of  us  who  are  inclined 
that  way  is  one  of  the  great  deter- 
rents to  our  progress  and  to  the 
realization  of  a  divine  destiny.  Let  us 
be  determined  to  overcome  selfishness 
and  personal  aggrandizement  by  shar- 
ing with  others  that  which  we  have, 
by  dedicating  ourselves  to  the  work  at 
hand  which  we  have  to  do,  through 
dedication  of  our  talents,  our  time,  our 
substance,  our  tithes,  and  our  offerings, 
our  love,  our  goodness  and  kindness  one 
to  another,  always  seeing  the  good  that 
always  may  be  found  in  others. 

When  we  partake  of  the  sacrament, 
brothers  and  sisters,  we  presumably  take 
upon  us  the  name  of  Christ.  ^Ve  agree 
to  do  as  he  would  do,  to  act  as  he  would 
act: 

.  .  .  by  love  serve  one  another. 

For  all  the  law  is  fulfilled  in  one  word, 
even  in  this;  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neigh- 
bour as  thyself.  (Gal.  5:13-14.) 


The  reward  of  unselfish  service  has 
been  told  us  by  the  Lord  when  he  has 
said  that  ".  .  .  whosoever  will  save  his 
life  shall  lose  it:  and  whosoever  will 
lose  his  life  for  my  sake  [I  take  it,  in 
his  service  and  the  service  of  his  fel- 
low men]  shall  find  it."  (Matt.  16:25.) 
The  sweetness  and  the  joy  of  life  is 
found  when  we  are  willing  to  deny  our- 
selves for  the  good  and  the  benefit  of 
others.  Service  to  others,  service  in  the 
Church,  giving  of  our  substance,  is  part 
of  the  life  of  a  Latter-day  Saint.  We 
are  taught  that  sacrifice  brings  forth  the 
blessings  of  heaven.  In  no  other  way, 
as  I  see  it,  can  the  Lord  raise  up  a  peo- 
ple who  will  be  fit  for  the  kingdom, 
who  will  have  it  ready  for  his  coming. 
By  offering  himself  as  a  sacrifice  for 
the  sins  of  the  world  and  the  redemp- 
tion of  mankind  from  death,  Jesus  set 
an  incomparable  example  to  us  in  the 
way  of  sacrifice  and  of  love  for  others. 

Again,  when  Abraham  and  Sarah 
were  commanded  of  the  Lord, — re- 
quested at  least — to  give  as  a  sacrifice 
their  son  Isaac,  we  can  imagine  what 
must  have  gone  through  their  minds. 
Nevertheless,  they  met  the  test.  The 
Lord  did  it  to  see  how  much  they  loved 
him.  Abraham  was  sustained,  I  am 
sure,  by  an  unwavering  trust  in  God. 
I  am  sure  that  Abraham  knew  that  to 
accomplish  his  purposes,  God  could, 
if  he  desired,  raise  up  Isaac  from  the 
dead,  even  after  he  had  died.  But  what 
a  lesson  that  is  in  service,  of  dedication, 
of  consecration  of  that  which  he  dearly 
loved!  No  wonder  that  Abraham  was 
called  a  "friend  of  God." 

An  opportunity  to  demonstrate  his 
love  of  the  Lord  was  given  to  another 
man.  He  had  great  possessions,  and  he 
had  a  chance  to  test  his  unselfishness 
when  he  asked  of  the  Lord,  "What  shall 
I  do  to  inherit  eternal  life?"  (Luke 
10:25.)  Now  this  man  had  done  many 
good  things.  He  had  kept  most  of  the 
OTmmandments,  I  understand,  but  he 
had  become  selfish  because  of  his  great 
possessions.   Evidently  he  thought  more 


122 

Sunday,  October  2 

of  them  than  he  did  of  eternal  life, 
because  when  told  by  the  Savior  that 
in  order  to  gain  eternal  life  he  should 
sell  whatsoever  he  had  and  give  to  the 

Eoor  and  take  up  the  cross  and  follow 
im,  he  was  sad,  and  according  to  the 
record,  ".  .  .  went  away  grieved:  for  he 
had  great  possessions."  (Mark  10:22.) 
He  had  not  learned  the  meaning  of 
dedication  and  of  consecration. 

Contrast  this  man  with  a  certain  poor 
widow  who  cast  into  the  treasury  her 
two  mites,  which  made  a  farthing — all 
that  she  had.  Her  contribution  amounted 
to  very  little  in  monetary  value,  about 
one  half  of  a  penny  of  our  money,  but 
it  was  not  the  smallness  of  her  offer- 
ing that  made  it  especially  acceptable 
unto  the  Lord  as  he  witnessed  her 
placing  her  money  in  the  treasury,  but 
it  was  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  that  she 
had  shown.  As  he  observed  others 
throwing  their  money  into  the  treasury, 
the  record  states: 

...  he  called  unto  his  disciples,  and  saith 
unto  them,  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  this 
poor  widow  hath  cast  more  in,  than  all 
they  which  have  cast  into  the  treasury: 

For  all  they  did  cast  in  of  their  abun- 
dance; but  she  of  her  want  did  cast  in  all 
that  she  had,  even  all  her  living.  (Ibid., 
12:43-44.) 

Dedication,  it  seems  to  me,  in  some 
form,  is  the  real  essence  of  all  religion. 
Dedication  to  the  will  of  the  Lord  and 
to  his  work  is  the  religion  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  In  this  dispensation  of  the 
gospel,  thousands  have  met  the  test 
when  called  upon  to  sacrifice  their  per- 
sonal positions,  their  time,  and  even 
their  lives,  in  order  to  establish  and  de- 
fend the  kingdom  of  God  upon  the 
earth. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  permitted 
himself  to  be  taken  by  the  mob  and  be 
put  to  death,  and  along  with  him, 
Hyrum,  whose  life  was  lost  by  an  as- 
sassin's bullet,  and  in  the  same  room 
at  the  same  time.  Dr.  Willard  Richards 
and  John  Taylor,  who  refused  to  leave 
him,  and  Dan  Jones,  and  others  who 
were  loyal  and  devoted  and  would  have 
given  their  lives  gladly  in  preference 
to  the  Prophet's  life.  They  set  an  ex- 
ample for  us  in  this  dispensation!:  There 
is  scarcely  an  end  to  the  list  of  those 
who  have  done  likewise  or  who  stand 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

now  willing  to  do  all  that  is  required 
of  them.  A  spirit  of  dedication,  will- 
ingness to  serve  in  any  capacity  and  to 
sacrifice,  if  necessary,  characterizes  the 
true  Latter-day  Saint. 

It  was  not  long  ago  that  I  was  in  one 
of  the  stakes  in  southern  Idaho.  I  was 
asked  to  interview  five  young  men  be- 
tween twenty-five  and  thirty-five  years 
of  age,  most  of  them  married  and  having 
one  or  two  children,  to  see  if  they  were 
ready  to  receive  an  office  in  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  for  which  they  had 
been  recommended.  I  received  the  thrill 
of  my  life.  Somehow,  I  decided — I 
don't  know  whether  I  made  a  mistake 
or  not — but  I  decided  to  see  what  the 
depth  of  their  willingness  to  sacrifice 
was.  As  each  one  came  into  the  room, 
I  sat  down  with  him,  introduced  myself, 
and  became  better  acquainted  with  him. 
Then  I  stated  that  the  Church  had 
acquired  a  great  tract  of  land  in  Brush 
Creek  and  wished  to  prepare  it  for 
settlement  for  the  Saints.  The  water 
had  to  be  brought  on  to  it,  the  brush 
had  to  be  cleared  and  the  land  leveled, 
homes  built,  schools  erected,  and  all 
things  must  be  done  from  scratch.  It 
would  be  no  easy  thing.  I  said:  "If  you 
were  asked  to  go,  would  take  your  wife 
and  family  and  leave  what  you  have 
and  go  to  Brush  Creek  and  settle  it?" 
Every  one  of  those  young  men  said  yes. 

I  said:  "What  would  your  wife  think 
about  it?"  In  every  case  they  said,  in 
effect,  "I  am  sure  she  would  feel  as  I 
do,  that  if  the  Church  required  it,  we 
would  go."  Then  I  explained  that  I  had 
concocted  the  story. 

I  felt  like  putting  my  arms  around 
each  of  those  young  men.  I  commended 
them,  and  then  I  got  down  on  my  knees, 
and  I  thanked  the  Lord  for  such  young 
men  of  this  day  who  were  ready  to 
dedicate,  to  consecrate,  to  leave  all  that 
they  had  and  go,  no  matter  where  they 
may  be  called  to  go  and  build  up  Zion. 
That  is  the  test  that  we  all  should  be 
ready  to  meet 

There  ,  is  a;  veritable  army  of  men  and 
women  such  as  these  in  the  quorums,  in 
the  ■  missions,  and  in  the  wards  and 
stakes,  and  in  all  places,  where  they 
serve  without  a  thought  of  compensa- 
tion. There  is  no  end  to  the  list— the 
ward  teachers,  who  do  good  jobs,  all  of 
those  who  serve,  all  of  you.  It  is  com- 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


123 


mendable,  and  it  must  be  pleasing  in  the 
sight  of  the  Lord.  Among  them,  not 
to  be  overlooked,  are  those  much  un- 
noticed, unsung  men  and  women,  who 
day  after  day,  month  after  month,  year 
after  year,  labor  in  the  temples  of  the 
Lord,  giving  vicarious  service  on  be- 
half of  the  dead.  Along  with  them  are 
those  who  do  research  work,  hiding  be- 
hind desks  and  files,  where  nobody 
knows  about  them,  spending  hours  and 
money  and  time  and  energy  that  the 
work  might  be  perfected.  It  is  one 
thing,  you  know,  to  do  something  for 
those  who  can  return  the  goodness  and 
who  can  thank  you,  but  these  people — 
this  great  army  of  those  who  do  vicari- 
ous service,  who  do  not  expect  a  return 
in  thanks,  at  this  time  at  least — I  think 
win  our  most  sincere  commendation 
and  our  admiration  for  that  type  of 
dedication. 

Paul  has  said  that  .  .  He  which 
soweth  sparingly  shall  reap  also  spar- 
ingly; and  he  which  soweth  bountifully 
shall  reap  also  bountifully. 

".  .  .  let  him  give,  not  grudgingly,  or 
of  necessity:  for  God  loveth  a  cheerful 
giver."  (II  Cor.  9:6-7.) 

With  the  Apostle  Paul,  brothers  and 
sisters,  let  us  say,  as  we  go  from  this 
conference, 

For  I  am  persuaded,  that  neither  death, 
nor  life,  nor  angels,  nor  principalities,  nor 


powers,  nor  things  present,  nor  things  to 
come, 

Nor  height,  nor  depth,  nor  any  other 
creature,  shall  be  able  to  separate  us  from 
the  love  of  God,  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus 
our  Lord.  (Romans  8:38-39.) 

May  it  be  so  with  us.  I  testify  that 
this  is  the  work  of  God;  that  his  power 
is  within  this  Church — the  power  to 
bring  redemption  to  the  dead  and  salva- 
tion to  the  living,  and  I  am  honored 
to  be  affiliated  with  the  membership,  of 
this  Church  and  to  do  my  little  bit  in 
furthering  the  work.  God  bless  you 
and  keep  you  and  comfort  you  when  you 
need  comfort,  I  pray  humbly,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  congregation  will  please  rise  and 
sing  one  verse  of  "Praise  to  the  Man 
Who  Communed  with  Jehovah." 


The  Combined  Choruses  and  the  con- 
gregation joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Praise  to  the  Man  Who  Communed 
with  Jehovah." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  address 

us.  .  '. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Jy  beloved  brothers  and 
I  sisters:  President  McKay 
I  began  this  great  confer- 
I  ence  on  a  note  of  grati- 
tude. My  soul  imme- 
diately responded  to  the 
theme.  The  spirit  of  it  has  inspired  the 
proceedings  of  every  session  of  the  con- 
ference. In  harmony  with  it,  let  me 
say  that  I  am  grateful  for  the  peace 
that  has  come  into  my  heart  during 
the  conference,  and  for  the  peace  of 
this  moment  as  I  stand  before  you  to 
express  my  feelings.  ;'  •;- 

Among  the  many  things  for  which  I 
am  thankful  is  the  sanctifying  process 
of  repentance.  I  am  grateful  to  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  who,  through  the 


atonement  he  wrought,  gave  us  the  gift 
of  repentance.  I  am  grateful  that  he 
was  willing  voluntarily  to  give  his  life 
for  us.  That  is  literally  what  he  did. 
He  did  not  have  to  give  it;  he  did  not 
have  to  die,  Because  he  was  the  Son 
of  God, 'he  was  not  subject  to  the  fall, 
as  were  men.  Within  him  was  power 
to  live  forever.  . ".  .  .  I  lay  .down  my 
life  for  the  sheep" — he  said.  "No 
man  taiketh  it  from  me,  but  I  lay  it 
down  of  myself.  I  have  power  to  lay 
it  down,  and  I  have  power  to  take  it 
again."  (John  10:15,  18.)  He  inherited 
power  over  death  from  his  divine 
Father.  •zz.-zi :.  ..  . 
:■_  It  took  a  person  with  power  over  death 
to  pay  the  debt  to  justice  to  bring  men 


124 

Sunday,  October  2 

forth  in  the  resurrection.  It  took  a  sin- 
less one,  a  god,  even  the  sinless  Son 
of  God,  to  satisfy  the  demands  of  jus- 
tice for  men's  sins.  They  themselves 
could  not  make  an  atonement  which 
would  either  bring  about  their  resur- 
rection or  pay  for  their  sins  and  bring 
about  their  spiritual  rebirth. 

And  so  I  repeat,  I  am  grateful  for  my 
Redeemer,  grateful  that  he  paid  the  debt 
and  brought  about  the  means  of  re- 
pentance so  that  by  repenting  of  my 
transgressions  I  can  bring  my  soul  with- 
in the  reach  of  his  atoning  blood  and 
thereby  be  cleansed  of  sin;  for,  after 
all,  it  is  by  the  grace  of  Christ  that 
men  are  saved,  after  all  they  can  do. 
The  thing  they  can  and  must  do  is 
repent.  I  love  the  doctrine  of  repent- 
ance. 

During  the  past  few  months  I  have 
seen  the  need  of  it — oh,  how  I  have  seen 
the  need  of  it.  I  have  seen  missionaries, 
saints,  and  non-members  of  the  Church, 
in  far-off  lands  sorrowing  with  a  godly 
sorrow  for  sin.  I  have  heard  them  say, 
"Oh,  Brother  Romney,  do  you  think 
there  is  any  hope  for  me,  any  chance 
for  me  to  get  on  even  the  bottom  rung 
of  the  gospel  ladder?" 

And  as  I  have  witnessed  their  sorrow- 
ing, I  have  remembered  the  sorrowing 
of  repentant  men  in  days  of  old; 
Zeezrom,  for  example,  whose  "soul," 
after  he  realized  what  he  had  done  in  op- 
posing the  ministry  of  Alma  and  Amulek, 
".  .  .  began  to  be  harrowed  up  under  a 
consciousness  of  his  own  guilt;  yea,  he 
began  to  be  encircled  about  by  the 
pains  of  hell."  So  severe  were  his 
sufferings  that  he  ". . .  lay  sick  at  Sidom, 
with  a  burning  fever,  which  was  caused 
by  the  great  tribulations  of  his  mind 
on  account  of  his  wickedness."  (See 
Alma  14  and  15.)  And  Alma,  who  said 
of  the  suffering  he  endured  for  "seek- 
ing to  destroy  the  church  of  God": 

I  was  racked  with  eternal  torment,  for 
my  soul  was  harrowed  up  to  the  greatest 
degree  and  racked  with  all  my  sins.  Yea, 
I  .  .  .  was  tormented  with  the  pains  of 
hell;  .  .  .  with  inexpressible  horror,  .  .  .  even 
with  the  pains  of  a  damned  soul.  (See 
ibid.,  36.) 

But  then  I  also  remembered  the  rest 
which  came  into  their  souls  when, 
through  repentance,  they  found  forgive- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

ness.  "Yea,  I  say  unto  you,"  said  Alma 
to  his  son  Helaman,  that  as  "there 
could  be  nothing  so  exquisite  and  so 
bitter  as  were  my  pains" — so  ".  .  .  on 
the  other  hand,  there  can  be  nothing 
so  exquisite  and  sweet  as  was  my  joy." 
(Ibid.,  36:21.) 

And  so  I  was  comforted  and  encour- 
aged those  who  confided  in  me,  and  I 
encourage  all  sorrowing,  repentant  men 
to  be  comforted — comforted  by  the  ex- 
perience of  Alma  and  by  Paul's  assur- 
ance that  ".  .  .  godly  sorrow  worketh  re- 
pentance to  salvation.  .  .  ."  (II  Cor. 
7:10.)  For  today,  as  well  as  in  days 
of  old,  there  is  hope,  there  is  peace, 
there  is  rest  in  Christ  for  all  whose 
godly  sorrow  brings  them  to  that  re- 
pentance which  worketh  salvation.  For- 
giveness is  as  wide  as  repentance.  Every 
person  will  be  forgiven  for  all  the 
transgression  of  which  he  truly  repents. 
If  he  repents  of  all  his  sins,  he  shall 
stand  spotless  before  God  because  of  the 
atonement  of  our  Master  and  Savior, 
Jesus  Christ;  while  he  that  exercises  no 
faith  unto  repentance  remains  ".  .  .  as 
though  there  had  been  no  redemption 
made,  except  it  be  the  loosing  of  the 
bands  of  death."  (Alma  11:41.)  Such 
is  the  gist  of  God's  merciful  plan  of 
redemption. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  there  are 
many  among  us  whose  distress  and  suf- 
fering are  unnecessarily  prolonged  be- 
cause they  do  not  complete  their  re- 
pentance by  confessing  their  sins.  You 
will  recall  the  following  words  of  the 
Savior, 

I  command  you  to  repent,  .  .  .  and  that 
you  confess  your  sins,  lest  you  suffer  these 
punishments  of  which  I  have  spoken.  (D  &  C 
19:20.) 

In  another  revelation  he  said, 

By  this  ye  may  know  if  a  man  repenteth 
of  his  sins — behold,  he  will  confess  them 
and  forsake  them.  (Ibid.,  58:43.) 

Repeatedly  he  says  that  he  forgives 
the  sins  of  those  who  confess  their  sins 
with  humbleness  of  heart,  ".  .  .  who 
have  not  sinned  unto  death."  (See  ibid., 
61:2;  64:7.)   And  he  adds, 

...  .  he  who  has  repented  of  his  sins,  the 
same  is  forgiven,  and  I,  the  Lord,  remenv 
ber  them  no  more.  (Ibid.,  58:42.) 


ELDER  MARK 

But  how  are  we  to  fulfil  this  com- 
mandment? To  whom  are  we  to  con- 
fess our  sins?  In  the  fifty-ninth  sec- 
tion of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
the  Lord,  with  other  directions  con- 
cerning his  "holy  day,"  says, 

.  .  .  remember  that  on  this,  the  Lord's 
day,  thou  shalt  offer  thine  oblations  and 
thy  sacraments  unto  the  Most  High,  con- 
fessing thy  sins  unto  thy  brethren,  and 
before  the  Lord.  (Ibid.,  59:12.) 

I  would  assume  that  we  are  to  con- 
fess all  our  sins  unto  the  Lord.  For 
transgressions  which  are  wholly  per- 
sonal, affecting  none  but  ourselves  and 
the  Lord,  such  confession  would  seem 
to  be  sufficient. 

For  misconduct  which  offends  an- 
other, confession  should  also  be  made 
to  the  offended  one,  and  his  forgiveness 
sought. 

Finally,  where  one's  transgressions 
are  of  such  a  nature  as  would,  unre- 
pented  of,  put  in  jeopardy  his  right  to 
membership  or  fellowship  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ,  full  and  effective  con- 
fession would,  in  my  judgment,  require 
confession  by  the  repentant  sinner  to 
his  bishop  or  other  proper  presiding 
Church  officer — not  that  the  Church 
officer  could  forgive  the  sin  (this  power 
rests  in  the  Lord  himself  and  those  only 
to  whom  he  specifically  delegates  it) 
but  rather  that  the  Church,  acting 
through  its  duly  appointed  officers, 
might  with  full  knowledge  of  the  facts 
take  such  action  with  respect  to  Church 
discipline  as  the  circumstances  merit. 

One  having  forsaken  his  sins  and, 
by  proper  confession,  cleared  his  conduct 
with  the  Lord,  with  the  people  he  has 
offended,  and  with  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  where  necessary,  may  with  full 
confidence  seek  the  Lord's  forgiveness 
and  go  forth  in  newness  of  life,  relying 
upon  the  merits  of  Christ. 

Let  us  in  this  manner  clear  for  right- 
eous living  the  decks  of  our  own  lives, 
and  get  on  our  way  to  eternal  life.  Only 
by  so  doing  can  we  rid  ourselves  of 
those  guilty  feelings  of  unworthiness, 
depression,  fear,  uncertainty,  and  self- 


V  G.  ROMNEY  125 

condemnation  which  block  our  upward 
climb.  So  long  as  we  put  off  either  the 
forsaking  or  confessing  of  our  sins,  just 
so  long  do  we  delay  the  day  of  our  re- 
demption. 

Let  not  the  past  hang  heavy  as  a  millstone 

to  thy  heels, 
To  drag  thee  downward  as  each  upward 

impulse  to  thy  nobler  self  appeals; 
But  as  the  joyous  butterfly  from  its  chrysa- 

listic  shell  breaks  free, 
So  from  the  past  must  thou  rise  jubilant, 

thine  own  true  self  to  be. 

This  we  may  do  today  if  we  will,  for 
Amulek  assures  us  that 

...  if  [we]  will  repent  and  harden  not 
[our]  hearts,  immediately  shall  the  great 
plan  of  redemption  be  brought  about  unto 
[us].  (See  Alma  34:31.) 

And  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  spoke 
these  comforting  words: 

...  none  of  the  children  of  the  Father 
who  are  redeemed  through  obedience,  faith, 
repentance,  and  baptism  for  the  remission 
of  sins,  and  who  live  in  that  redeemed  con- 
dition, and  die  in  that  condition,  are  sub- 
ject to  Satan.  .  .  .  They  are  absolutely 
beyond  his  reach  just  as  little  children  are 
who  die  without  sin.  (Gospel  Doctrine,  p. 
570.) 

God  grant  that  it  may  be  so  with  us 
all,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young  will  please 
come  forward.  Elder  Marion  G.  Rom- 
ney  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  has 
just  spoken  to  us,  and  some  of  you  will 
be  wondering  who  the  Elder  is  who 
spoke  just  prior  to  our  singing.  It  was 
Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve. 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us,  and 
he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Oscar  A. 
Kirkham  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy. 


126 

Sunday,  October  2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Third  Dan 


|Y   BRETHREN    AND  SISTERS: 

When  I  was  on  my  mis- 
sion many  years  ago,  I 
was  laboring  in  Southern 
Germany,  and  in  1907 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
in  company  with  then  Bishop  Charles 
W.  Nibley,  who  subsequently  was 
called  to  be  a  Counselor  to  Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant,  was  traveling 
through  the  missions.  While  in  Swit- 
zerland, as  has  been  related  here,  a 
meeting  was  held  attended  by  Saints 
and  some  of  the  missionaries,  at  which 
President  Smith  made  that  memorable 
prediction  that  the  day  would  come 
when  there  would  be  temples  in  Europe 
and  in  that  land  of  Switzerland. 

It  seemed  so  incredible  at  that  time. 
We  were  facing  persecution.  In  Ger- 
many we  were  not  permitted  to  meet 
openly,  so  we  held  our  meetings  in  the 
forests  in  the  summer  and  in  private 
homes  in  the  winter. 

The  newspapers  carried  articles  against 
the  Church  and  the  missionaries,  vi- 
cious in  their  nature.  It  seemed  that 
the  powers  of  the  evil  one  had  been 
turned  loose  to  stop  the  work,  and  when 
that  prediction  was  made,  as  we  talked 
about  it  in  our  little  missionary  group, 
we  wondered  if  it  would  ever  be  ful- 
filled. 

I  came  home  from  my  mission  in 
1908.  Conditions  here  were  not  too 
good.  There  was  persecution  here  at 
home,  criticism  toward  the  leaders  of 
the  Church,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
being  especially  singled  out  in  news- 
papers and  magazines  for  vitriolic  at- 
tacks on  the  part  of  those  antagonistic 
to  the  Church. 

There  are  two  types  of  persecution. 
In  the  early  history  of  the  Church  it 
was  more  or  less  physical.  Later  on  it 
was  of  the  nature  I  have  described.  It 
just  seemed  that  the  work  could  not  go 
forward. 

What  a  change  now  I  God  moves  in 
the  affairs  of  men.  It  is  his  work.  We 
are  his  children,  and  no  matter  what 
may  come,  if  we  do  our  part  in  preach- 
ing the  gospel,  declaring  its  message, 
its  saving  truths,  there  will  be  no  ques- 


tion about  the  outcome.  These  things 
we  have  learned  over  the  years. 

No  one  would  have  hazarded  such 
a  prediction  except  a  prophet  of  the 
Living  God.  He  saw,  he  knew,  through 
the  prophetic  powers  that  he  possessed, 
and  today,  during  this  conference,  we 
have  had  related  to  us  the  fulfilment  of 
that  great  prediction. 

Thus,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  has 
ever  been,  and  thus  it  will  ever  be  in 
this  work. ;  There  will  be  no  failure. 
We  may  fail.  Six  months  ago,  you  will 
recall  we  had  a  heavy  snowstorm — 
conference  weather  they  called  it — and 
President  McKay  announced  that  all 
the  roads  in  Wyoming  were  blocked  and 
that  the  Saints  should  not  attempt  to 
drive  home  until  the  storm  cleared.  To- 
day under  such  beautiful  weather  con- 
ditions we  meet  in  conference.  How 
this  epitomizes  the  rolling  forth  of  the 
work  of  the  Lord!  We  meet  storms; 
we  meet  roadblocks;  then  the  storm 
clears.  We  ourselves  sometimes  throw 
up  road  blocks  when  we  fail  to  do  our 
part,  when  we  fail  to  support  the  or- 
ganizations, when  presiding  officers  in 
wards  and  stakes  fail  to  give  the  neces- 
sary direction  to  the  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions, helping  them  in  their  work,  all 
of  them  being  important  and  necessary. 
We  throw  up  road  blocks  when  we  fail 
to  do  our  duty  and  keep  his  command- 
ments. But  the  Lord,  just  as  the  storm 
cleared,  clears  the  way,  and  in  spite  of 
us  his  work  goes  on,  and  there  is  no 
failure. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  testimony.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  cleansing  power  of  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  thank 
the  Lord  for  faith  in  God.  I  thank  him 
for  his  blessings  that  come  even  in  the 
face  of  adversity  and  affliction,  for  the 
power  to  see  even  beyond  the  affliction. 
I  am  grateful  for  these  blessings. 

God  sustains  us.  You  know  what  was 
said  of  the  Savior — that  although  he 
were  a  son,  yet  learned  he  obedience  by 
suffering,  by  the  things  which  he  suf- 
fered, and  being  made  perfect  through 
that  suffering,  he  became  the  author  of 
eternal  salvation  to  all  who  obey. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


127 


Thus  it  is  with  us,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  I  leave  with  you  my  testi- 
mony, and  pray  that  God  may  help  us 
that  there  may  be  no  failure  on  our 
part,  and  that  we  may  not  place  any 
road- blocks  because  we  have  sufficient 
evidence  to  know  that  even  against  odds 
and  adversity,  there  is  no  failure. 

God   help   Us   to   appreciate  these 


things,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First  Council 
of  the  Seventy  will  be  our  concluding 
speaker. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


|  pray  for  the  blessings  of  our 
[  Heavenly  Father. 
I  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
i  on  his  eighty-second  birthday, 
;  said  these  words:  "This  is  a 
1  great  world  for  each  youth, 
but  he  must  conquer  it  for  himself  by 
work  and  right  living." 

President  Stephen  L  Richards,  at  the 
dedication  of  a  ward  chapel  in  Cache 
Stake  stated:  "We  are  engaged  in  build- 
ing the  kingdom  here  on  earth.  That 
is  our  assignment.  Men  are  not  en- 
dowed with  the  same  talents,  but  every- 
one can  make  a  contribution  in  his 
way." 

President  David  O.  McKay  said,  at 
the  dedication  of  a  chapel  in  the  Box 
Elder  Stake:  "Three  virtues  contribute 
to  the  spirit  of  man:  first,  control  of  the 
passions;  second,  reverence;  a  great  man 
is  reverent  in  his  attitude  toward  God 
and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ;  third,  service 
to  his  fellow  men." 

Out  of  our  welfare  program  has  come: 
"They  are  putting  a  roof  on  the  house 
of  a  sick  brother.  Men  arid  boys  are 
harvesting  the  widow's  potato  crop." 

Lucy  B.  Young,  one  of  President 
Brigham  Young's  wives,  said  one  day 
in  Germany  to  me,  "I  went  up  the  hall 
in  the  Lion  House.  President  Young 
had  just  crossed  the  road  on  South 
Temple  and  hurried  into  his  office. 
With  the  curiosity  of  a  good  woman, 
I  walked  up  to  the  end  of  the  hall  and 
listened  at  the  door.  I  heard  President 
Brigham  Young  say:  'Down  on  your 
knees,  Brigham  I  Down  on  your  knees  1' 
He  had  had  some  difficulty  with  the 
men  across  the  street.    In  a  few  mo- 


ments he  opened  the  door  calmly,  with 
perfect  control,  and  went  about  his 
work. 

May  God  school  our  feelings,  give  us 
a  desire  to  do  the  right  with  such  fine 
determination  and  faith,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed 
us  briefly,  but  he  said  much  in  those 
few  words. 

We  have  been  deprived  of  the  in- 
spiration of  remarks  from  Elder  Henry 
D.  Moyle.  He  would  rather  I  would 
not  say  what  I  am  going  to  say,  and  I 
do  not  want  my  remarks  to  arouse  any 
undue  anxiety  in  your  hearts. 

Brother  Moyle  was  one  of  four  of  the 
Twelve  who  were  present  at  the  dedica- 
tory services  of  the  Swiss  Temple.  Just 
prior  to  that  he  filled  a  special  appoint- 
ment. As  always,  he  said,  "Yes,  I  will 
go."  I  think  that  the  filling  of  that  ap- 
pointment did  not  result  in  the  cold 
from  which  he  suffered  when  he  got 
back  to  Bern.  Be  that  as  it  may — I  want 
to  say  that  he  participated  in  all  the 
exercises,  too.  He  speaks  German  flu- 
ently, and  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
German  Saints  rejoiced  in  his  message. 

The  doctor  thought  he  should  not 
attend  these  services.  He  has  a  very 
painful  case  of  shingles.  I  have  deemed 
it  unwise  to  have  him  exert  himself  to 
address  this  large  congregation.  We 
unite  our  prayers,  Brother  Moyle,  for 
your  complete  and  permanent  restora- 
tion to  your  usual  vigor  and  health. 


128 

Sunday,  October  2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Third  Day 


-o    sou   Saints  listening  in: 
Thank  you  for  the  many- 
telegrams  you  have  sent.  We 
rejoice  with  you  in  the  excel- 
lent transmission  of  the  mes- 
-  sages  from  this  tabernacle. 
I  know  the  Saints  would  be  pleased  to 
hear  your  comments,  but  time  will  not 
permit  our  reading  them.    I  have  two 
here,  though,  which  I  am  sure  the  Saints 
and  you  in  California  will  be  pleased 
to  hear. 

One  is:  "The  servicemen  assembled 
at  Fort  Ord  and  those  gathered  in  homes 
enjoyed  the  TV  broadcast  of  conference 
this  morning.  Approximately  ninety  in 
attendance." — Chaplain  Connell. 

The  other  is  from  Tijuana,  Mexico: 
"The  Saints  gathered  here  in  Mexico 
enjoying  good  conference  reception.  Pro- 
ceedings are  being  translated  into  Span- 
ish. Best  wishes.— The  Tijuana  Branch 
Presidency,  Tijuana,  Mexico."  Then, 
as  you  see,  dozens  of  others.  We  are 
just  one  great,  united  Church — united 
in  love. 

In  your  behalf,  may  I  express  appre- 
ciation and  gratitude  to  all  who  have 
assisted  in  any  way  in  making  this 
great  semi-annual  conference  such  an 
inspirational  success.  As  I  was  driven 
down  to  this  session,  I  saw  the  officers 
of  the  law  on  duty,  and  I  thought  that 
their  diligence  has  prevented  accidents; 
perhaps  they  have  saved  lives  by  their 
faithfulness.  I  know  they  have  greatly 
contributed  to  our  convenience,  and  we 
thank  them  and  our  city  fathers  for 
their  co-operation.  To  you  reporters 
for  your  fair  and  accurate  reports  we 
express  thanks;  also  to  the  audience  as 
a  whole  for  your  responsiveness,  at- 
tentiveness,  and  example  in  reverence, 
too,  even  you  who  have  to  stand  in 
the  doorways.  It  is  all  these  little 
things  which  contribute  to  a  spirit  of 
unity,  brotherhood,  and  love.  The  fire 
department  has  been  on  hand  in  case 
of  any  emergency.  Red  Cross  officials 
have  been  rendering  service. 

These  flowers  we  have  mentioned 
before.  I  did  not  tell  you  however  that 
the  presidency  of  the  Wilford  Stake 
asked  permission  to  furnish  these  flow- 
ers. We  did  not  ask  them.  They  asked 
for  the  privilege  of  contributing  to  the 


beauty.  We  accept  their  flowers  as 
messengers  of  love.  We  thank  you,  and 
to  think  that  these  other  flowers  could 
come  across  the  Pacific  Ocean  and  re- 
tain their  beauty  and  fragrance  as  these 
have  done  emphasizes  the  nearness  of 
our  Saints  in  the  far-off  parts  of  the 
world  to  us. 

We  mention  the  ushers.  Have  you 
noticed  how  quietly  they  have  attended 
to  their  duty?  They  have  been  on 
hand,  each  at  his  post,  with  no  confu- 
sion whatever.  Thank  you  for  con- 
sidering your  post  important  and  doing 
your  duty  so  well. 

To  the  various  radio  and  television 
stations  in  our  own  city  and  state,  and 
in  other  states  named  in  the  various 
sessions  of  the  conference,  we  render 
our  special  thanks  in  behalf  of  the  tens 
of  thousands  of  people  who  have  heard 
these  proceedings  due  to  your  courtesy 
and  contribution. 

To  these  groups  of  singers  from  Fri- 
day morning  on,  we  cannot  say  in  words 
that  which  we  feel  in  our  hearts.  The 
German  Saints  on  Friday — how  well 
they  sang!  How  gladly  they  rendered 
that  service  I  That  group  of  young  men 
and  young  women  on  Saturday — why 
they  just  seemed  to  throw  their  young 
hearts  into  the  expression  of  love 
through  singing,  and  we  all  responded 
to  it! 

And  this  afternoon,  shall  I  say  the 
climax?  I  can,  because  our  mothers  who 
always  sing  from  the  heart  have  just 
lifted  us  to  spiritual  heights,  and  Sister 
Madsen,  how  the  Lord  has  blessed  her 
to  get  these  groups  of  mothers  together 
and  to  sing  with  such  expression!  It 
is  so  inspiring!  Well,  on  behalf  of  the 
thousands  who  listen,  we  thank  you, 
one  and  all,  for  what  you  have  done 
today. 

I  have  time  to  say  only  a  word  in 
conclusion.  The  brethren  who  have 
addressed  us  have  been  inspired  of  the 
Lord,  as  you  will  all  testify,  and  they 
have  given  us  sublime  messages.  They 
have  given  us  the  gospel.  What  shall 
we  do  about  it? 

I  remember  fifty-eight  years  ago,  on 
one  occasion  I  sat  in  council  with  two 
local  elders  in  Glasgow  who  had  trouble 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


129 


which  they  could  not  solve,  and  which 
threatened  to  become  serious.  Some- 
thing that  was  said  touched  the  sym- 
pathy of  one,  and  when  you  touch  the 
sympathy  of  a  Scotchman  you  have  him, 
and  he  said,  "Tell  us  what  you  want 
us  to  dee,  and  we'll  dee  it."  (Tell  us 
what  you  want  us  to  do,  and  we'll  do 
it) 

Well,  we  have  been  told  in  this  con- 
ference what  to  do.  God  help  us  to 
do  it.  May  I  mention  two  important 
things  just  by  way  of  emphasis  upon 
which  we  should  center  our  efforts. 
One  pertains  to  the  priesthood  quorums. 
Fellow  presiding  officers  in  missions, 
stakes,  wards,  and  quorums,  make  your 
quorums  more  effective  in  regard  to 
brotherhood  and  service.  The  quorums 
are  units  which  should  effectively  hold 
the  priesthood  in  sacred  bonds  and  in 
helpfulness. 

I  refer  particularly  to  the  senior  mem- 
bers of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood — you 
businessmen,  successful  in  the  business 
world;  you  professional  men  who  have 
devoted  your  time  to  the  success  of 
your  vocations  and  are  successful  and 
are  leading  men  in  civic  and  political 
affairs — get  together  more  closely  in 
your  quorum.  Yes,  it  may  be  teachers — 
that  is  all  right.  You  meet  as  teachers, 
adult  teachers,  and  help  one  another. 
If  one  of  your  number  be  sick,  two  or 
three  of  you  get  together  and  call  on 
him.  You  can  do  that.  You  do  not 
like  to  preach,  and  you  hesitate  to  ap- 
pear before  an  audience,  even  to  pray. 
You  can  go  together  and  sit  by  the 
side  of  your  comrade  who  lies  in  bed. 
He  will  never  forget  it. 

You  elders  perhaps  have  one  of  your 
number  sick,  and  his  crop  needs  har- 
vesting. Get  together  and  harvest  it. 
One  of  your  members  has  a  son  on  a 
mission,  and  his  funds  are  getting  low. 
Just  ask  if  you  can  be  of  help  to  him. 
Your  thoughtfulness  he  will  never  for- 
get. Such  acts  as  these  are  what  the 
Savior  had  in  mind  when  he  said,  "In- 
asmuch as  ye  do  it  unto  the  least  of 
these  my  brethren,  ye  do  it  unto  me." 
(See  Matt.  25:40.)  There  is  no  other 
way  that  you  can  serve  Christ.  You 
can  kneel  down  and  pray  to  him,  that 
is  good.  You  can  plead  with  him  to 
give  you  his  guidance  through  the  Holy 
Spirit — yes,  we  do  that  and  must  do  it. 


We  have  to  do  it.  But  it  is  these  prac- 
tical, daily  visits  in  life,  it  is  the  con- 
trolling of  our  tongue,  in  not  speaking 
evil  of  a  brother,  but  speaking  well  of 
him,  that  the  Savior  marks  as  true  serv- 
ice. 

Read  Peter's  first  epistle  where  he  re- 
fers to  the  Holy  Priesthood:  ".  .  .  ye  are 
a  chosen  generation,  a  royal  priesthood, 
an  holy  nation,  a  peculiar  people;  that 
ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises  of  him 
who  hath  called  you  out  of  darkness 
into  his  marvellous  light."  (I  Peter 
2:9.)  In  his  second  epistle  (see  ch.  1:4) 
note  the  significance  of  this:  "Whereby 
are  given  unto  us  exceeding  great  and 
precious  promises:  that  by  these  ye 
might  be  partakers  of  the  divine  na- 
ture, .  .  ."  When  you  sense  that,  you 
have  reached  happiness. 

Now  the  other  point  relates  to  your 
homes.  Let  us  go  home  with  a  deter- 
mination to  have  our  homes  places  of 
contentment  and  peace.  There  is  not 
one  of  us  who  cannot  contribute  to  that 
condition.  The  ideal  home  should  be 
found  among  the  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  am  just 
sufficiently  old-fashioned  to  think  that 
the  home  is  still  the  foundation  of  the 
state,  especially  of  a  republic.  Do  not 
forget  it.  And  the  state  has  no  right 
to  take  your  children  and  attempt  to 
train  them  and  substitute  for  your  pro- 
tection, mother,  and  your  prayerful 
guidance. 

Brother  Bennion  referred  to  the  in- 
fluence of  a  mother.  He  expressed  what 
each  one  of  us  may  do.  But  I  am  re- 
ferring now  to  the  fathers'  contributing 
to  the  home  by  showing  a  high  sense 
of  regard  and  courtesy  to  your  wives  in 
the  home.  Courtesy  is  a  wonderful  vir- 
tue, and  it  should  be  shown  in  the 
home.  Courtesy  is  saying  "thank  you"; 
"if  you  please";  "pardon  me."  Have 
you  forgotten  those  terms  in  the  home? 
Children,  hearing  them,  will  themselves 
become  courteous  to  mother  and  to 
father,  and  to  each  other.  The  home 
is  the  place  to  teach  the  virtues  of  so- 
ciety. The  home  is  the  place  to  in^ 
still  the  faith  that  has  been  emphasized 
in  this  conference. 

Husbands,  remember  the  covenants 
you  have  made  to  your  wives.  Do  not 
permit  your  affections  to  be  led  away 
from  the   mother  of   your  children. 


130 

Sunday,  October  2 

Mothers,  do  not  forget  that  you  owe 
something  to  your  children  and  to  your 
husband.  You,  too,  can  keep  yourself 
attractive.  You,  too,  can  refrain  from 
finding  fault.  You,  too,  can  contribute 
to  the  happiness  and  contentment  of 
the  home,  the  sweetest  place  on  earth. 
That  is  about  as  near  heaven  as  you 
will  get  here.  Do  not  make  it  a  hell. 
Some  do. 

We  have  had  too  many  broken  homes 
since  the  war,  too  many  separations  by 
divorce.  Let  us  reduce  that  number. 
There  is  no  use  terminating  a  marriage 
just  because  of  a  few  misunderstandings. 
Guard  against  misunderstandings  by 
curbing  your  tongue.  You  hold  the 
priesthood.  Can't  you  control  your 
tongue  as  well  as  your  actions?  Do  not 
say  the  thing  that  comes  to  your  mind 
when  things  go  wrong,  and  by  a  quick- 
tempered remark  wound  her  who  has 
given  her  life  to  you.  Control  your 
temper. 

Yes,  you  see  weaknesses.  The  women 
see  them  in  us  husbands,  too.  I'll  tell 
you  they  see  them!  They  control  their 
tongues  more  frequently,  I  think,  than 
we  do.  Let  us  reverence  womanhood. 
Is  it  not  strange,  when  you  think  of  it, 
that  the  one  thing  of  which  the  world 
has  accused  this  Church  is  the  one 
thing  in  which  this  Church  deserves 
most  credit — keeping  the  home  pure  and 
stable,  educating  children  in  the  faith 
of  our  fathers,  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  and  the  Father  and  in  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel. 

Now,  here  is  a  final  appeal  at  this 
conference  for  us  to  go  home,  to  go 
back  and  set  our  homes  in  order.  God 
bless  you  in  so  doing,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Choir  will  sing,  "The  Silent 
Sea — I  Know  not  What  the  Future 
Hath  of  Marvel  or  Surprise,"  after  which 
the  benediction  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
George  L.  Nelson,  president  of  the 
Monument  Park  Stake,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  for  six 
months. 

"The  Silent  Sea,"  by  our  Singing 
Mothers,  led  by  Sister  Madsen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Singing  by  the  Combined  Choruses, 
"The  Silent  Sea." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
Conference  will  convene  in  this  build- 
ing tonight  at  7  o'clock.  All  Sunday 
School  workers  will  desire  to  be  in  at- 
tendance, and  all  are  invited. 

Presidencies  of  the  temples  will  please 
make  their  way  at  once  to  the  fourth 
floor  of  the  temple  building. 

President  George  L.  Nelson  of  the 
Monument  Park  Stake  will  now  offer 
the  benediction. 


The  benediction  was  offered  by  Elder 
George  L.  Nelson,  President  of  the 
Monument  Park  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  congregational  singing  of  the 
Conference  was  conducted  by  the  con- 
ductors of  the  various  choirs  which 
furnished  the  music  for  each  day's  ses- 
sions, and  by  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie. 

The  choral  singing  for  the  Friday 
morning  and  afternoon  sessions  was 
furnished  by  the  German  Speaking 
Church  Organization  Choir,  with  Heinz 
Rimmasch  conducting,  and  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ. 

At  the  Saturday  morning  and  after- 
noon sessions  the  choral  singing  was 
furnished  by  the  MIA  Chorus  from  the 
Salt  Lake  Valley  Stakes,  with  Elvis  B. 
Terry  conducting  at  the  morning  ses- 
sion, and  Ruth  Hardy  Funk  at  the 
afternoon  session,  with  Roy  M.  Darley 
at  the  organ. 

At  the  General  Priesthood  Meeting 
held  Saturday  evening  the  choral  music 
was  furnished  by  the  Bonneville  Stake 
Priesthood  Chorus,  with  David  A. 
Shand  as  director,  and  Roy  M.  Darley  at 
the  organ. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  21  stakes  in  the  Bannock  and  East 
Idaho  Regions,  with  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  conducting,  and 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ,  furnished 
the  music  for  the  Sunday  morning  and 
afternoon  sessions. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE  131 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom  and 

the  great  organ  were  played  by  Frank  Joseph  Anderson. 
W.  Asper  and  Roy  M.  Darley. 

  Joseph  Anderson 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  Clerk  of  the  Conference 


Index 

Page 


Anderson,  Elder  Joseph    38 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    Ill 

Bennion,  Elder  Adam  S   116 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft    106 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   17 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   69 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  Stake,  Ward,  and  Branch  Organizations   38 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    92 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   121 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   21 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   87 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   Ill 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Critchlow,  Elder  William  J.,  Jr   83 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   9 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   92 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting    3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    21 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained    Ill 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    79 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D  ,   47 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   64 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   51 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   114 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   73 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A   127 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   54 

Longden,  Elder  John    31 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   12 

McKay,  President  David  0   4 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   89 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

McKay,  President  David  0   128 

(Closing  Address) 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Page 

McKay,  President  David  O  3,  4,  9,  12,  13,  17,  20,  21, 

24,  26,  30,  32,  35,  37,  38,  41,  44,  47,  49,  51,  53,  57,  58, 
62,  64,  68,  69, 72, 78,  79,  80,  83,  86,  88,  89,  92,  94,  95,  100, 
103,  106,  110,  111,  114,  116,  120,  123,  125,  127,  128,  130. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E   24 

Morris,  Elder  George  Q   101 

Muir,  Elder  Thomas  W   80 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   58 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    Ill 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General    79 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   27 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L   96 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L  .   88 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   123 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   38 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    57 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   44 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G  .'   62 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding      42 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma    49 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   13 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    Ill 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    92 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting   92 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    110 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   35 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E.  '.  „   126 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    32 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth    103 


