ONE  HUNDRED  THIRTY-FOURTH 

SEMI-ANNUAL 


CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

HELD  IN  THE  TABERNACLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

OCTOBER  2,  3,  4,  1964 

WITH  REPORT  OF  DISCOURSES 


Published  by 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Deseret  Book  Presents  . . . 

New,  Large  Print,  Illustrated  Editions 

of  the  STANDARD  WORKS 


NEW 

TESTAMENT 

Illustrated  Large 
Print  Edition 


■  The  King  James  Version  in  large,  easy-to-read  type!  ■  A  big  7"x  l(fl/4" 
volume  with  full  color  lithographed  cover!  ■  Forty-eight  pages  of  full  color 
illustrations  including  15  reproductions  of  famous  Carl  Bloch  "Life  of  Jesus" 
paintings!  ■  Eight  pages  of  Hammond's  New  Testament  Maps!  ■  Full  Bible 
Concordance  (Old  and  New  Testaments)!  ■  Full  Bible  Index!  ■  Plus  many 
additional  helps  including  "From  the  Beginning  of  the  Gospel  Record," 
"Some  Old  Testament  Prophecies,"  "From  Malachi  to  Matthew,"  "Jewish 
Sects  and  Their  Beliefs"  "Items  of  Information  Concerning  the  Bible"  and 
others.  ONLY  $3.95 


Book  of 
itliiriiiun 


OLD  TESTAMENT,  Illustrated  Large  Print  Edition 

■  Large  7"  x  11"  volume  with  easy-to-read  print!  ■  More 
than  thirty  pages  of  illustrations  in  full  color  and  sepiatones 

■  Eight  pages  of  Old  Testament  maps!  ■  Reader's  helps  in- 
clude "Old  Testament  Chronology,"  "The  Ancient  Versions 
of  the  Old  Testament,"  "Hebrew  Festivals,"  "Weights,  Money, 
and  Measures,"  and  "The  Languages  of  the  Bible." 

ONLY  $5.95 

BOOK  OF  MORMON,  Illustrated  Large  Print  Edition 

■  Large  7"  x  11"  volume  with  easy-to-read  type!  ■  Forty 
pages  of  beautiful  color  illustrations!  ■  Twelve  full  color 
plates  of  Arnold  Friberg  Book  of  Mormon  paintings!  ■  Color 
illustrations  of  ancient  American  ruins  and  artifacts!  ■  Sepia- 
tone  portrait  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith! 

ONLY  $3.95 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-fourth  Semi-annual 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-Fourth  Semi- 
Annual  Conference  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday, 
Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  2,  3,  and 
4,  1964. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m. 
Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and  the 
General  Priesthood  Meeting  was  held 
Saturday  evening,  October  3,  at  7:00  p.m. 

Conference  again  was  widely  heard 
and  seen  in  the  United  States  and  parts 
of  Canada  over  155  television  and  30 
radio  stations,  giving  time  and  facilities 
to  bring  the  Conference  to  millions 
without  charge. 

The  Friday  morning  session  was  car- 
ried by  direct  cable  to  Montevideo, 
Uruguay  and  transmitted  in  Spanish 
over  Radio  CARVE  and  Radio  RIVERA 
and  beamed  by  shortwave  to  all  of  South 
America  and  Spain  Sunday  afternoon. 

For  the  first  time,  this  October  one 
session  of  Conference  was  televised  in 
South  America  over  Channel  10 — 
SATAE,  Montevideo,  Uruguay  to  view- 
ers of  the  Rio  De  La  Plata  area.  The 
telecast  was  made  from  film  of  the 
Saturday  morning  session  last  April. 

Spanish  translation  of  the  Saturday 
morning  session  was  broadcast  for  th° 
first  time  by  tape  at  Fajardo,  Puerto 
Rico  and  beamed  to  a  northeast  section 
of  Mexico  from  Mission,  Texas. 

Jet  airliner  carried  tape  recordings  of 
the  Saturday  morning  session  to  Europe 
for  transmission  in  both  English  and 
German  over  Radio  Luxembourg,  and 
was  heard  throughout  Europe  and  Great 
Britain  Wednesday  and  Friday  evenings 
following  the  Conference. 

The  five  WRUL  shortwave  trans- 
mitters near  Boston  broadcast  Saturday 
and  Sunday  morning  sessions  direct  to 
Europe,  Africa,  and  South  America.  In 
addition,  the  session  of  Saturday  morn- 
ing was  broadcast  in  both  Spanish  and 


Portuguese  to  all  of  South  America,  and 
in  German  to  Europe  Sunday  afternoon. 

For  the  second  time,  daily  sessions  of 
Saturday  and  Sunday  were  broadcast 
during  early  morning  hours  over  KIRO- 
Radio  at  Seattle,  these  broadcasts  being 
heard  by  members  of  the  Church  in 
New  Zealand,  Australia,  and  many 
islands  of  the  Pacific. 

Daily  sessions  of  the  three-day  Con- 
ference again  were  recorded  then  broad- 
cast over  KSL-Radio  during  early  morn- 
ing hours  to  islands  of  the  Pacific, 
Alaska,  Hawaii,  Canada,  Mexico,  and 
the  Caribbean  area,  and  many  states 
within  the  United  States. 

To  bring  Conference  to  a  number  of 
members  abroad,  films  were  provided 
Missions  and  Stakes  for  showing  in 
Ward  and  Branch  gatherings  in  Aus- 
tralia, Germany,  Holland,  France,  Great 
Britain,  and  South  America.  Sound 
track  translations  in  German,  French, 
Dutch,  and  Spanish  were  provided  re- 
spective foreign  speaking  areas. 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  gathered  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  400  separate  gatherings  from 
coast  to  coast  and  in  Canada. 

President  David  O.  McKay's  messages 
to  the  Conference  were  read  by  his  sons: 
to  the  opening  session,  by  Elder  Robert 
R.  McKay;  and  to  the  Priesthood  Meet- 
ing, Saturday  evening,  by  Elder  David 
Lawrence  McKay. 

A  full  report  of  the  Sunday  morning 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast 
and  the  CBS  Church  of  the  Air  Broad- 
cast is  included  in  this  record. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  clerk  of 
the  Conference. 


General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  Hugh  B.  Brown 
and  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  First  and 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Counselors  respectively.  President 
David  O.  McKay  was  confined  to  his 
apartment  on  account  of  illness,  where 
he  watched  and  listened  to  the  proceed- 
ings of  the  Conference  by  television.* 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Delbert  L.  Stapley, 
Marion  G.  Romney,  LeGrand  Richards, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  Howard  W.  Hunter, 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  Thomas  S.  Monson. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr., 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Franklin  D.  Richards, 
Theodore  M.  Burton,  Thorpe  B.  Isaac- 
son, Boyd  K.  Packer,  Bernard  P.  Brock- 
bank. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Seymour  Dilworth 
Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  Bruce  R. 
McConkie,  Marion  D.  Hanks,  A.  Theo- 
dore Tuttle,  Paul  Harold  Dunn. 


Presiding  Bishopric:  John  H.  Vanden- 
berg,  Robert  L.  Simpson,  Victor  L. 
Brown. 


General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William 
Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  the  General  Church 
Priesthood  Committees. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of 
Education  and  the  Acting  Chancellor  of 
the  Church  School  System;  also  Direct- 
ors and  Associate  Directors  of  Institutes, 
and  Seminary  Instructors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
quorum  presidencies,  and  members  of 
the  Melchizedek  and  Aaronic  Priesthood. 

Auxiliary  Officers,  General,  Stake,  and 
Ward,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

♦President  David  O.  McKay  absent  because  of  illness. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  134th 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  are  convened  in  the  historic  Salt 
Lake  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square. 
You  who  are  present  have  noted,  and 
you  who  are  listening  in  should  be  ad- 
vised that  President  David  O.  McKay 
is  not  able  to  be  with  us  this  morning. 
Reluctantly  he  has  yielded  to  the  insist- 
ence of  his  physicians. 

I  know  of  no  man  in  the  Church,  no 
man  in  the  world,  more  universally 
loved,  respected  and  admired  than  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay.  He  would  like  to 
be  here.  He  is  here  in  spirit.  He  will 
follow  the  sessions  of  the  Conference  on 
television  in  his  apartment  and  he  will 
preside  at  this  session  and  all  sessions 
of  the  Conference.  He  will  ask  some  of 
us  to  direct  certain  sessions. 

For  the  benefit  of  you  men  who  were 
not  invited  to  the  meetings  during  the 
week  may  I  announce  that  more  than 
10,000  Relief  Society  sisters  held  their 
annual  conference  in  this  building.  We 
commend  the  sisters  for  the  remarkable 
work  they  are  doing  and  we  want  them 
to  know  of  our  love  and  blessing. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  all 
of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
are  in  attendance  at  this  morning  session. 

You  will  be  interested  in  knowing 
that  by  radio  and  television  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  Conference  will  reach  a 
world-wide  audience  of  millions.  One 
hundred  and  fifty  television  stations  and 
many  radio  stations  will  join  in  pre- 
senting either  all  or  part  of  the  Confer- 
ence proceedings  from  coast  to  coast  in 
the  United  States  and  Canada  and 
through  special  arrangements  portions  of 
the  Conference  will  be  televised  in 
Hawaii.  We  are  grateful  to  the  owners 
and  managers  of  the  television  and  radio 
stations  for  their  cooperation  in  bringing 
the  proceedings  of  this  Conference  to  a 
vast  audience  of  people  throughout  the 


world.  KSL  Radio  and  Television  will 
broadcast  all  the  sessions  of  the  Con- 
ference and  will  be  joined  by  other 
stations  in  carrying  it  to  the  world. 

For  the  sixth  consecutive  time  Con- 
ference sessions  will  be  released  over 
international  short-wave  station  WRUL, 
with  its  five  short-wave  transmitters  near 
Boston,  Massachusetts  by  way  of  its 
New  York  studios.  WRUL  will  carry  the 
Conference  in  English  to  Europe,  Africa, 
Central  and  South  America,  and  parts 
of  Asia.  Spanish  translations  will  be 
broadcast  to  Central  and  South  America 
and  also  to  Mexico  and  the  Carribean 
areas.  Short-wave  transmitters  will  in- 
clude German  and  Portuguese  in  trans- 
lations. 

For  the  second  time  we  are  pleased  to 
announce  that  Radio  CARVE  will  beam 
Spanish  translations  of  the  Conference 
to  all  of  South  America  and  to  Spain 
from  Uruguay.  Also,  for  the  second 
time  Conference  sessions  will  be  broad- 
cast over  Radio  Luxemberg  to  Europe. 

All  of  the  sessions  of  this  Conference 
then  will  be  broadcast  over  Radio  Sta- 
tion KSL  from  one  o'clock  a.m.  to  five 
o'clock  a.m.  following  each  Conference 
day,  and  can  be  heard  in  many  parts 
of  the  United  States  and  throughout  the 
world  including  Alaska,  Canada,  Mexi- 
co, and  the  Islands  of  the  Pacific;  and 
for  the  second  time  it  is  anticipated  that 
these  broadcasts  will  be  heard  in  New 
Zealand  and  Australia  over  KIRO  at 
Seattle. 

Coverage  by  television  and  radio  will 
permit  tens  of  thousands  to  hear  in 
their  homes  the  proceedings  of  this 
Conference.  We  are  grateful  to  the  Lord 
that  we  are  now  able  to  transmit  in  a 
brief  period  the  message  of  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  to  millions 
throughout  the  world.  We  are  also  deeply 
grateful  for  the  dedicated  men  trained 
in  the  field  of  communications  who  are 
assisting  the  Church  today  in  its  efforts 
to  bring  the  message  of  the  Restored 
Gospel  to  the  people  of  the  earth. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  2 

We  have  assembled  here  in  the  Taber- 
nacle representatives  of  the  Church  who 
have  come  from  many  areas  of  the 
world.  To  all  of  those  gathered  here  in 
the  Tabernacle,  to  the  overflow  gather- 
ing in  the  Assembly  Hall,  the  radio  and 
television  audiences,  in  behalf  of  the 
First  Presidency,  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  and  other  General  Authorities, 
we  extend  a  cordial  and  hearty  welcome. 

For  the  convenience  of  those  who  are 
unable  to  enter  this  Tabernacle  which 
is  crowded  to  capacity  we  announce  that 
these  services  and  all  general  sessions  of 
the  Conference  will  be  seen  and  heard 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  by  television.  Any 
important  messages  that  come  to  us  for 
persons  attending  the  Conference  will 
be  announced  at  the  dismissal  of  the 
meeting  over  a  public  address  system. 

These  beautiful  flowers  which  you  see 
on  the  stand  have  been  arranged  on  the 
rostrum  by  our  Church  gardeners  under 
the  able  direction  of  Brother  Irvin  T. 
Nelson.  We  thank  him  and  them  for 
their  thoughtfulness. 

We  have  received  many  messages  and 
telegrams  from  various  parts  of  the 
world,  but  time  will  not  permit  reading 
them.  We  appreciate  them  nonetheless 
We  welcome  all  the  general  and  local 
authorities  of  the  Church  who  are  in 
attendance  and  trust  that  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  will  direct  all  of  us  and  es- 
pecially be  with  our  beloved  President 
during  these  sessions. 

We  would  like  to  recognize  the  pres- 
ence of  some  United  States  Senators, 


First  Day 

representatives  from  the  House  of  Repre- 
sentatives, also  the  Governor,  the  Mayor 
and  other  officials  who  have  honored  us 
by  being  present.  We  acknowledge  also 
the  presence  of  the  heads  of  educational 
institutions  throughout  the  state  and 
nation. 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  session 
will  be  furnished  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  from  the  Juab,  San- 
pete and  Richfield  areas,  with  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conducting, 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  singing 
"The  Twenty-Third  Psalm,"  conducted 
by  Sister  Madsen,  and  the  invocation 
will  be  offered  by  William  Grant  Ban- 
gerter,  formerly  president  of  the  Bra- 
zilian Mission. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  William  Grant  Bangerter,  former- 
ly president  of  the  Brazilian  Mission. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  "O  Savior  of  the 
World:" 

I  am  very  pleased  to  announce  that 
there  will  be  a  message  from  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  read  by  his  son, 
Robert,  immediately  after  the  singing. 
And  after  his  reading  of  the  message 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will 
address  us. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

(Read  by  his  son  Robert  McKay) 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters: 

Only  at  the  last  moment  have  I  given 
in  to  the  pleas  of  the  doctors  and  mem- 
bers of  the  family  not  to  put  the  added 
strain  on  my  heart  by  attempting  to  go 
over  to  the  Tabernacle  to  meet  with  you 
in  this  conference.  However,  I  am  with 
you  in  spirit  and  watching  the  proceed- 
ings of  the  meeting  over  television. 

It  is  over  fifty-eight  years  ago  that  I 
stood  at  the  pulpit  in  the  Tabernacle 
for  the  first  time  as  one  of  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church.  I  remember 
well  then  my  trembling  and  humility  at 


facing  such  an  audience  and  accepting  a 
position  as  one  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties. The  passing  of  over  one  half  a 
century  has  made  it  no  easier  to  dis- 
charge the  responsibility  that  one  holds 
as  a  General  Authority.  This  morning, 
as  then  and  during  the  intervening  years, 
I  ask  for  your  sympathy  and  prayers. 

Blessings  of  the  Decade 

Evidences  of  progress  in  the  Church 
give  us  true  cause  for  rejoicing.  The 
Lord  has  blessed  us  with  eventful  and 
prosperous  years  during  the  past  decade. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


The  loyalty  of  the  members  to  the  ideals 
and  teachings  of  the  Man  of  Galilee 
has  been  evidenced  in  many  ways:  by 
the  response  of  tens  of  thousands  to  the 
message  of  the  restored  gospel  as  pro- 
claimed by  messengers  at  home  and 
abroad;  by  ready  and  willing  response 
to  "calls"  and  "assignments";  and  by 
increased  tithes  and  offerings.  Surely 
with  these  and  other  equally  meritorious 
services  the  Lord  is  pleased,  for  he  has 
said,  ".  .  .  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

Eternal  Vigilance  and  Righteous 
Effort  the  Price  of  Peace 

But  let  us  ever  remember  that  peace 
and  progress  are  attained  only  at  the 
price  of  eternal  vigilance  and  constant 
righteous  efforts.  The  forces  of  evil  and 
misery  are  still  rampant  in  the  world 
and  must  be  resisted.  The  powers  of 
darkness  have  increased  in  accordance 
with  the  spread  of  the  gospel.  Whole 
nations  are  declaring  atheism  to  be  the 
law  of  the  land.  Atheism  has  become  the 
greatest  weapon  Satan  has  to  use,  and 
its  evil  influence  is  bringing  degradation 
to  millions  throughout  the  world.  Even 
at  this  moment  as  the  sun  throws  warm, 
genial  rays  on  snowcapped  summits  and 
frost-covered  valleys  of  this  western 
land,  the  public  press  tells  of  increasing 
activity  on  the  part  of  the  evil  one. 
Warlike  activities  and  international  mis- 
understandings prevent  the  establishing 
of  peace  and  divert  man's  inventive 
genius  from  the  paths  of  science,  art, 
and  literature,  and  apply  it  to  human 
retardation  and  the  holocaust  of  war. 

Peace  When;  .  .  . 

The  rising  sun  can  dispel  the  dark- 
ness of  night,  but  it  cannot  banish  the 
blackness  of  malice,  hatred,  bigotry,  and 
selfishness  from  the  hearts  of  humanity. 
Happiness  and  peace  will  come  to  earth 
only  as  the  light  of  love  and  human 
compassion  enter  the  souls  of  men. 

"With  Healing  In  His  Wings" 

It  was  for  this  purpose  that  Christ, 
the  Son  of  righteousness,  "with  healing 
in  his  wings,"  came  in  the  Meridian  of 
Time.  Through  him  wickedness  shall  be 
overcome,  hatred,  enmity,  strife,  poverty, 


and  war  abolished.  This  will  be  ac- 
complished only  by  a  slow  but  never- 
failing  process  of  changing  men's  mental 
and  spiritual  attitude.  The  ways  and 
habits  of  the  world  depend  upon  the 
thoughts  and  soul-convictions  of  men 
and  women.  If,  therefore,  we  would 
change  the  world,  we  must  first  change 
people's  thoughts.  Only  to  the  extent 
that  men  desire  peace  and  brotherhood 
can  the  world  be  made  better.  No  peace, 
even  though  temporarily  obtained,  will 
be  permanent,  whether  to  individuals  or 
nations,  unless  it  is  built  upon  the  solid 
foundation  of  eternal  principles. 

Men  may  yearn  for  peace,  cry  for 
peace,  and  work  for  peace,  but  there  will 
be  no  peace  until  they  follow  the  path 
pointed  out  by  the  Living  Christ.  He  is 
the  true  light  of  men's  lives. 

The  Mission  of  the  Church 
to  Establish  Peace 

The  mission  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  to  establish 
peace.  The  Living  Christ  is  its  head. 
Under  him  tens  of  thousands  of  men 
in  the  Church  are  divinely  authorized  to 
represent  him  in  variously  assigned 
positions.  It  is  the  duty  of  these  repre- 
sentatives to  manifest  brotherly  love,  first 
toward  one  another,  then  toward  all 
mankind;  to  seek  unity,  harmony,  and 
peace  in  organizations  within  the 
Church,  and  then  by  precept  and  ex- 
ample extend  these  virtues  throughout 
the  world. 

I  pray  that  each  day  may  find  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  truer,  purer,  nobler 
than  the  last,  that  they,  with  intellect 
and  hearts  united,  may  hasten  the  day 
when  ". . .  the  Lord  will  bless  his  people 
with  peace"  (Psalm  29:11)  that  they 
may  ".  .  .  lift  up  an  ensign  of  peace, 
and  make  a  proclamation  of  peace  unto 
the  ends  of  the  earth."  (D&C  105:39.) 

Blessings  of  Peace  for  the  Righteous 

I  invoke  upon  the  righteous  every- 
where our  Father's  blessings  that  peace 
may  be  in  their  hearts  and  in  their 
homes,  that  unity  may  strengthen  their 
ranks,  that  they  may  be  blessed  with 
the  desire  and  means  to  teach  others, 
that  goodness  may  come  into  the  lives 
of  men  throughout  the  earth,  that  our 
Father's  kingdom  may  be  enlarged  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  2 

magnified,  that  his  sons  and  daughters 
in  all  the  world  may  find  fellowship 
with  the  Saints,  that  the  designs  of  the 
wicked  may  be  frustrated  and  the  pur- 
poses of  the  sinful  come  to  naught,  that 
unrighteous  dominion  shall  be  broken, 
and  that  truth  shall  govern  the  earth, 
that  God's  people — those  who  keep  his 
commandments — may  become  as  a  light 
set  upon  a  hill,  an  ensign  to  the  nations, 
in  anticipation  of  the  long-awaited  day 
when  the  Prince  of  Peace  shall  reign  as 
King  of  Kings  and  Lord  of  Lords.  This 
is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


First  Day 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 


President  McKay,  we  have  all  been 
thrilled  and  inspired  by  this  wonderful 
message  and  we  thank  you  for  the  bles- 
sing you  have  pronounced  upon  us  and 
pledge  to  you  our  continued  love  and 
support  and  obedience  to  the  command- 
ments of  God. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  now  speak  to  us,  and  he  will  be 
followed  by  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church, 
Eldred  G.  Smith. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  am  very  grateful  for  the  message  from 
President  McKay  and  pray  that  the 
blessings  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may 
continue  with  him  that  he  may  be  raised 
and  be  able  to  meet  with  us  again. 

Father  Asked  Me  to  Read 
The  Book  of  Mormon 

When  I  was  a  small  boy,  too  young 
to  hold  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  my 
father  placed  a  copy  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  in  my  hands  with  the  request 
that  I  read  it.  I  received  this  Nephite 
record  with  thanksgiving  and  applied 
myself  to  the  task  which  had  been 
assigned  to  me.  There  are  certain  pas- 
sages that  have  been  stamped  upon  my 
mind,  and  I  have  never  forgotten  them. 
One  of  these  is  in  the  27th  chapter  of 
3rd  Nephi,  verses  19  and  20.  It  is  the 
word  of  our  Redeemer  to  the  Nephites  as 
he  taught  them  after  his  resurrection.  It 
is  as  follows: 

"And  no  unclean  thing  can  enter  into 
his  kingdom;  therefore  nothing  entereth 
into  his  rest  save  it  be  those  who  have 
washed  their  garments  in  my  blood,  be- 
cause of  their  faith,  and  the  repentance 
of  all  their  sins,  and  their  faithfulness 
unto  the  end. 

"Now  this  is  the  commandment:  Re- 
pent, all  ye  ends  of  the  earth,  and  come 
unto  me  and  be  baptized  in  my  name, 
that  ye  may  be  sanctified  by  the  recep- 
tion of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  ye  may 
stand  spotless  before  me  at  the  last  day." 

The  other  passage  is  in  the  10th  verse 


of  chapter  41  in  the  book  of  Alma  and 
is  as  follows: 

"Do  not  suppose,  because  it  has  been 
spoken  concerning  restoration,  that  ye 
shall  be  restored  from  sin  to  happiness. 
Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  wickedness  never 
was  happiness." 

Fundamental  Teachings  of 
the  Prophets 

These  two  passages  I  have  tried  to  fol- 
low all  the  days  of  my  life,  and  I  have 
felt  to  thank  the  Lord  for  this  counsel 
and  guidance,  and  I  have  endeavored  to 
stamp  these  sayings  on  the  minds  of 
many  others.  What  a  wonderful  guide 
these  teachings  can  be  to  us  if  we  can 
get  them  firmly  fixed  in  our  minds! 
These  thoughts  are  of  course  not  peculiar 
to  the  Book  of  Mormon.  They  are  funda- 
mental teachings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  have  been  expressed  many 
times  by  the  prophets  of  old  and  our 
Redeemer  when  they  were  upon  the 
earth.  It  is  a  fact  beyond  successful  dis- 
pute that  no  unclean  thing  can  inherit 
the  kingdom  of  God  and  obtain  what  is 
known  as  eternal  life.  This  is  to  say  that 
the  Redeemer  of  this  world,  through  the 
great  sacrifice  which  he  made,  opened 
the  graves  and  restored  all  mortal  things, 
both  mankind,  fowls  of  the  air,  fishes  of 
the  sea,  and  every  creature  that  partook 
of  death  through  the  "fall"  of  Adam. 
In  the  5th  chapter  of  John,  verses  28  and 
29,  we  have  the  definite  statement  of  our 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


Redeemer  proclaiming  this  truth  as  fol- 
lows: 

"Marvel  not  at  this:  for  the  hour  is 
coming,  in  the  which  all  that  are  in  the 
graves  shall  hear  his  voice, 

"And  shall  come  forth;  they  that  have 
done  good,  unto  the  resurrection  of  life; 
and  they  that  have  done  evil,  unto  the 
resurrection  of  damnation." 

"Old  Things  Shall  Pass  Away" 

Permit  me  to  quote  some  other  pas- 
sages of  scripture  from  the  revelations 
that  have  come  to  us  by  divine  decree  in 
this  dispensation.  This  is  from  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  section  29,  verses 
22  to  25: 

"And  again  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto 
you  that  when  the  thousand  years  are 
ended,  and  men  again  begin  to  deny 
their  God,  then  will  I  spare  the  earth 
but  for  a  little  season; 

"And  the  end  shall  come,  and  the 
heaven  and  the  earth  shall  be  consumed 
and  pass  away,  and  there  shall  be  a  new 
heaven  and  a  new  earth. 

"For  all  old  things  shall  pass  away, 
and  all  things  shall  become  new,  even 
the  heaven  and  the  earth,  and  all  the 
fulness  thereof,  both  meni  and  beasts, 
the  fowls  of  the  air,  and  the  fishes  of 
the  sea; 

"And  not  one  hair,  neither  mote,  shall 
be  lost,  for  it  is  the  workmanship  of 
mine  hand." 

Again  the  Lord  spoke  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  a  revelation  in  answer 
to  the  question: 

"Q.  What  are  we  to  understand  by 
the  four  beasts,  spoken  of  in  the  same 
verse?  (See  Rev.  4:6.) 

"A.  They  are  figurative  expressions, 
used  by  the  Revelator,  John,  in  describ- 
ing heaven,  the  paradise  of  God,  the 
happiness  of  man,  and  of  beasts,  and  of 
creeping  things,  and  of  the  fowls  of  the 
air;  that  which  is  spiritual  being  in  the 
likeness  of  that  which  is  temporal;  and 
that  which  is  temporal  in  the  likeness 
of  that  which  is  spiritual;  the  spirit  of 
man  in  the  likeness  of  his  person,  as  also 
the  spirit  of  the  beast,  and  every  other 
creature  which  God  has  created."  (D&C 
77:2.) 


The  Resurrection 

A  Complete  Restoration 

There  is  a  strange  doctrine  in  the 
world  concerning  the  resurrection  even 
among  those  who  believe  there  will  be  a 
reuniting  of  the  spirit  and  body,  which 
is  to  the  effect  that  only  the  righteous 
will  come  forth  to  receive  rewards  of 
exaltation.  This,  however,  is  a  misunder- 
standing. Through  the  atonement 
wrought  by  the  Son  of  God,  our  Savior, 
the  resurrection  is  a  complete  restoration 
of  all  things  mortal,  even  of  this  earth 
itself  on  which  we  stand.  The  earth  is  to 
be  purified  and  become  the  abode  of  the 
righteous.  Peter  understood  this  doctrine 
and  in  his  second  epistle  made  the  fol- 
lowing statement: 

"But  the  day  of  the  Lord  will  come  as 
a  thief  in  the  night;  in  the  which  the 
heavens  shall  pass  away  with  a  great 
noise,  and  the  elements  shall  melt  with 
fervent  heat,  the  earth  also  and  the 
works  that  are  therein  shall  be  burned 
up. 

"Seeing  then  that  all  these  things  shall 
be  dissolved,  what  manner  of  persons 
ought  ye  to  be  in  all  holy  conversation 
and  godliness, 

"Looking  for  and  hastening  unto  the 
coming  of  the  day  of  God,  wherein  the 
heavens  being  on  fire  shall  be  dissolved, 
and  the  elements  shall  melt  with  fer- 
vent heat? 

"Nevertheless  we,  according  to  his 
promise,  look  for  new  heavens  and  a  new 
earth,  wherein  dwelleth  righteousness." 
(2  Peter  3:10-13.) 

Earth  to  Receive  Resurrection 
from  Mortality 

Let  us  not  misunderstand  this  expres- 
sion. The  new  heaven  and  new  earth 
will  be  the  same  heaven  and  the  same 
earth  on  which  we  now  sojourn,  for  this 
earth  is  to  receive  the  resurrection  after 
this  day  of  mortality  and  be  the  abode 
of  the  righteous  in  eternity.  Without  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord  given  to  men, 
this  truth  would  not  be  made  known. 
Neither  would  we  have  knowledge  of  the 
final  glory  to  which  this  earth  will  be 
assigned.  Even  now,  where  men  are 
without  divine  guidance  and  revelation, 
this  truth  is  unknown. 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  2 

Darkness  Covered  the  Earth 

I  am  very  grateful  to  my  Father  in 
heaven  for  the  privilege  that  has  been 
granted  to  me  to  come  into  this  world 
in  this  dispensation  when  once  again 
the  fulness  of  the  gospel  has  been  re- 
vealed. I  have  been  grateful  and  have 
thanked  the  Lord  many  times  for  the 
privilege  which  came  to  me  to  live  in 
the  present  dispensation  and  that  I  was 
not  born  two  or  three  hundred  years  ago 
during  the  great  period  when  the  ful- 
ness of  the  gospel  was  not  had  among 
men  and  they  were  running,  as  the  scrip- 
tures say,  "to  and  fro"  seeking  for  the 
truth  which  could  not  be  found  because 
of  the  deep  spiritual  darkness  which  cov- 
ered the  entire  earth.  This  condition  was 
not  the  fault  of  the  Lord  but  the  fault  of 
mankind,  for  they  had  been  offered  the 
fulness  of  the  gospel,  but  in  course  of 
time  they  refused  to  have  it,  and  their 
teachers  turned  away  and  caused  to  enter 
into  the  Church  false  doctrines  and  false 
ordinances  and,  worse  than  all,  a  false 
conception  in  relation  to  God  our  Eter- 
nal Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 

It  was  a  day  when  there  was  not  one 
left  in  mortality  with  the  divine  power 
to  officiate  in  the  vital  and  saving  ordi- 
nances of  the  gospel — a  day  when  false 
teachings,  false  ordinances,  and  false  in- 
structors came  upon  the  scene.  This  con- 
dition left  the  entire  Christian  world  in 
a  state  of  confusion,  without  divine  in- 
spiration, so  that  the  notion  prevailed 
universally  that  the  heavens  were  closed. 
Contact  with  the  Father  and  his  Beloved 
Son  had  ceased,  and  the  angels  for  a 
long,  long  past  had  ceased  to  visit  mortal 
man  on  the  face  of  the  earth.  Under 
such  conditions  it  was  a  natural  thought 
encouraged  by  clergy  that  our  Eternal 
Father  had  ceased  to  commune  with  his 
children  on  the  earth.  Moreover,  the  false 
notion  became  prevalent  that  mortal 
man  was  left  with  the  teachings  of  the 
Bible  and  that  it  contained  all  of  the 
revelation  that  mankind  needed  to  in- 
sure his  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of 
God.  Under  such  conditions  and  prac- 
tice no  doubt  Satan  rejoiced;  false  teach- 
ers arose,  and  the  people,  no  matter  how 
devout  they  were,  found  themselves  in 
spiritual  darkness.  Moreover,  for  a  long 
time  the  edict  went  forth  that  mortal 
men  who  had  not  been  prepared  for  the 


First  Day 

clergy  should  not  seek  for  knowledge  or 
search  the  scriptures,  for  this  was  the 
sole  responsibility  of  the  clergy.  There- 
fore I  am  exceedingly  grateful  for  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the  coming 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  him  and 
their  directing  him  in  the  course  he 
should  take.  Moreover,  I  am  thankful 
that  the  time  came  for  the  restoration  of 
divine  truth  and  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  so  that  the  inhabitants  of  the 
world  could  find  the  path  to  eternal 
life,  and  the  ordinances  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  could  again  be  exercised  in 
behalf  of  the  salvation  of  all  mankind. 

The  Plan  of  Salvation 
Heaven's  Gift  to  Mankind 

On  January  22,  1834,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  said: 

"The  great  plan  of  salvation  is  a 
theme  which  ought  to  occupy  our  strict 
attention,  and  be  regarded  as  one  of 
heaven's  best  gifts  to  mankind.  No  con- 
sideration whatever  ought  to  deter  us 
from  showing  ourselves  approved  in  the 
sight  of  God,  according  to  His  divine 
requirement.  Men  not  infrequently  for- 
get that  they  are  dependent  upon  heaven 
for  every  blessing  which  they  are  per- 
mitted to  enjoy,  and  that  for  every  op- 
portunity granted  them  they  are  to  give 
an  account.  You  know,  brethren,  that 
when  the  Master  in  the  Savior's  parable 
of  the  stewards  called  his  servants  before 
him  he  gave  them  several  talents  to  im- 
prove on  while  he  should  tarry  abroad 
for  a  little  season,  and  when  he  returned 
he  called  for  an  accounting.  So  it  is  now. 
Our  Master  is  absent  only  for  a  little 
season,  and  at  the  end  of  it  He  will  call 
each  to  render  an  account;  and  where 
the  five  talents  were  bestowed,  ten  will 
be  required;  and  he  that  has  made  no 
improvement  will  be  cast  out  as  an  un- 
profitable servant,  while  the  faithful 
will  enjoy  everlasting  honors.  Therefore 
we  earnestly  implore  the  grace  of  our 
Father  to  rest  upon  you,  through  Jesus 
Christ  His  Son,  that  you  may  not  faint 
in  the  hour  of  temptation,  nor  be  over- 
come in  the  time  of  persecution."  (DHC 
2,  23-24.) 

I  would  like  to  quote  a  few  remarks  of 
divine  truth  from  the  lips  of  President 
David  O.  McKay,  taken  from  Gospel 
Ideals,  p.  383. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


9 


"No  man  can  disobey  the  word  of  God 
and  not  suffer  for  so  doing.  No  sin,  how- 
ever secret,  can  escape  retribution.  True, 
you  may  lie  and  not  be  detected;  you 
may  violate  virtue  without  it  being 
known  by  any  who  would  scandalize 
you;  yet  you  cannot  escape  the  judgment 
that  follows  such  transgression.  The  lie 
is  lodged  in  the  recesses  of  your  mind, 
an  impairment  of  your  character  that 
will  reflect  sometime,  somehow  in  your 
countenance  or  bearing.  Your  moral 
turpitude,  though  only  you,  your  ac- 
complice, and  God  may  ever  know  it, 
will  canker  your  soul." 

I  will  close  my  remarks  by  reading  a 
poem  which  I  think  is  very  appropriate, 
entitled  "The  Guy  in  the  Mirror." 

When  you  get  what  you  want  in  your 

struggle  for  self, 
And  the  world  makes  you  king  for  a  day, 
Then  go  to  the  mirror  and  look  at  your- 
self 

And  see  what  that  guy  has  to  say. 

For  it  isn't  a  man's  father,  or  mother, 
or  wife, 

Whose  judgment  upon  him  must  pass; 
The  feller  whose  verdict  counts  most  in 
his  life 

Is  the  guy  staring  back  from  the  glass. 


He's  the  feller  to  please,  never  mind  all 
the  rest 

For  he's  with  you  clear  up  to  the  end. 
And  you've  passed  your  most  dangerous, 

difficult  test, 
If  the  guy  in  the  glass  is  your  friend. 

You  may  be  like  Jack  Horner  and 

'chisel'  a  plum, 
And  think  you're  a  wonderful  guy, 
But  the  man  in  the  glass  says  you're  only 

a  bum, 

If  you  can't  look  him  straight  in  the  eye. 

You  can  fool  the  whole  world  down  the 

pathway  of  years, 
And  get  pats  on  the  back  as  you  pass, 
But  your  final  reward  will  be  heartaches 

or  tears 

If  you've  cheated  the  guy  in  the  glass. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my  good 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  all,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

We  have  just  listened  to  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  will  now  be 
addressed  by  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith, 
Patriarch  to  the  Church. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


One  of  the  outstanding  characteristics 
of  members  of  this  Church  is  testimony 
bearing.  Nearly  all  church  speeches  in- 
clude the  bearing  of  testimony.  This  is 
our  mission,  as  members  of  the  Church, 
to  testify  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  gos- 
pel to  our  fellow  men. 

What  Is  a  Testimony? 

What  is  a  testimony?  We  speak  of  it 
as  a  valued  possession,  which  it  truly  is. 
Webster  says  it  is  evidence,  proof,  a 
solemn  declaration.  Then  a  testimony 
of  the  gospel  is  your  solemn  declaration 
of  the  truthfulness  of  the  gospel  ac- 
cording to  your  knowledge  thereof. 

Blessings  Predicated  Upon  Obedience 

To  have  a  testimony  of  God  and  his 


Son  Jesus  Christ  can  bring  about  the 
greatest  blessing  you  can  attain  in  this 
mortal  existence.  Each  blessing  is  ob- 
tained by  fulfilling  the  law  upon  which 
that  blessing  is  predicated.  The  law 
upon  which  this  blessing  is  predicated 
is  given  extensively  throughout  the  scrip- 
tures. 

In  Matthew  we  read:  "Ask,  and  it 
shall  be  given  you;  seek,  and  ye  shall 
find;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto 
you: 

"For  every  one  that  asketh  receiveth; 
and  he  that  seeketh  findeth;  and  to  him 
that  knocketh  it  shall  be  opened."  (Matt. 
7:7-8.  Italics  added.) 

Moroni  also  promises:  "...  I  would 
exhort  you  that  ye  would  ask  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ, 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  2 

if  these  things  are  not  true;  and  if  ye 
shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real 
intent,  having  faith  in  Christ,  he  will 
manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"By  the  Power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
Ye  May  Know" 

"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things. 

"And  whatsoever  thing  is  good  is  just 
and  true;  wherefore,  nothing  that  is  good 
denieth  the  Christ,  but  acknowledgeth 
that  he  is. 

"And  ye  may  know  that  he  is,  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost;  wherefore 
I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  deny  not  the 
power  of  God;  for  he  worketh  by  power, 
according  to  the  faith  of  the  children  of 
men,  the  same  today  and  tomorrow,  and 
forever."  (Moroni  10:4-7.) 

What  does  it  mean  to  knock  or  seek? 
This  is  a  way  of  saying,  "It  requires 
effort  on  your  part."  Study,  pray,  act — 
do  something  about  it!  Knowledge  alone 
saves  no  one.  Lucifer  knows,  and  it  is 
this  knowledge  which  is  to  his  damna- 
tion. Without  proper  action,  it  can  be 
the  same  to  anyone  else. 

Moroni  said:  ".  .  .  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth 
of  all  things."  (Ibid.,  10:5.)  One  may 
ask,  "How  does  one  receive  a  message 
from  the  Holy  Ghost?" 

A  Personage  of  Spirit 

The  Holy  Ghost  is  a  Personage  of 
Spirit.  We  also  have  a  spirit  body  as 
well  as  a  mortal  body.  We  were  person- 
ages of  spirit  before  we  came  upon  this 
earth. 

The  Lord  said  to  Job:  "Where  wast 
thou  when  I  laid  the  foundations  of  the 
earth?  declare,  if  thou  hast  understand- 
ing. 

"Who  hath  laid  the  measure  thereof, 
if  thou  knowest?  or  who  hath  stretched 
the  line  upon  it? 

"Whereupon  are  the  foundations 
thereof  fastened?  or  who  laid  the  corner 
stone  thereof: 

"When  the  morning  stars  sang  to- 
gether, and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted 
for  joy?"  (Job  38:4-7.) 

Are  we  not  the  sons  of  God  who  at 
that  time  shouted  for  joy? 

Abraham  also  tells  us  the  following: 


First  Day 

"Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me, 
Abraham,  the  intelligences  that  were 
organized  before  the  world  was;  and 
among  all  these  there  were  many  of  the 
noble  and  great  ones; 

"And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they 
were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst  of 
them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will  make 
my  rulers;  for  he  stood  among  those  that 
were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they  were 
good;  and  he  said  unto  me:  Abraham, 
thou  art  one  of  them;  thou  wast  chosen 
before  thou  wast  born."  (Abraham  3: 
22-23.) 

Before  we  came  on  the  earth,  we  were 
all  spirits.  What  is  a  spirit?  We  use 
the  word  "spirit"  to  describe  anything 
and  everything,  all  elements  that  are  not 
mortal — so  we  had  a  non-earthly  body. 
We  were  nevertheless  individuals.  We 
had  the  power  and  ability  to  see,  think, 
act,  make  decisions.  We  even  took  part 
in  that  great  war  in  heaven,  as  a  result 
of  which  Lucifer  was  cast  out  of  heaven. 

Our  spirit  body  has  the  same  shape 
and  form  as  the  physical  body.  The 
spirit  body  then  has  arms,  legs,  a  head, 
and  a  mind. 

When  we  came  to  earth,  we  took 
upon  us  a  physical  or  mortal  body  of 
flesh  and  bones.  The  separation  of  these 
two  bodies  we  call  death.  Through  the 
atonement  of  Christ  these  two  bodies 
will  be  reunited  again.  This  we  call  the 
resurrection. 

In  coming  into  mortality  we  forget 
all  from  the  previous  life  for  a  wise  pur- 
pose in  the  Lord.  In  effect,  a  barrier  or 
veil  is  placed  between  the  spirit  mind 
and  the  mortal  mind. 

Analogies 

Now,  I  think  if  we  will  apply  some 
of  the  laws  of  electronics,  that  is,  radio 
and  television,  we  will  be  aided  in  a 
possible  understanding  of  how  we  can 
receive  a  message  from  the  Holy  Ghost. 
We  have  a  spirit  mind  and  a  mortal 
mind.  Our  spirit  mind  can  receive  mes- 
sages from  the  Holy  Ghost,  who  is  a 
spirit. 

In  this  room  now  there  are  many 
waves  going  by  of  sound,  of  pictures, 
and  even  of  colored  pictures.  We  cannot 
detect  them  with  our  mortal  eyes  or  ears, 
but  if  we  set  up  a  receiving  set  and 
put  it  in  tune,  then  we  pick  up  the 


ELDER  BERNARD  P.  BROCKBANK 


11 


sound  Or  pictures  by  the  mortal  ears  or 
eyes.  Similarly,  the  Holy  Ghost  may  be 
constantly  sending  out  messages  like  a 
broadcasting  station.  If  you  put  your- 
self in  tune,  that  is,  knock  or  ask  or  seek, 
you  may  receive  the  message.  It  may  be 
as  if  you  were  to  open  an  imaginary 
window  or  door  between  your  spirit 
mind  and  your  physical  mind  and  per- 
mit the  message  to  come  through.  Spirit 
can  talk  to  spirit,  and  you  are  part 
spirit — just  open  that  imaginary  door 
and  let  the  mortal  mind  receive.  To 
open  it  requires  study,  prayer,  action  or 
works,  or  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  you. 

There  is  no  salvation  with  just  knowl- 
edge alone — for  ".  .  .  the  devils  also 
believe,  and  tremble,"  says  James  (James 
2:19),  then  adds,  "But  wilt  thou  know, 
O  vain  man,  that  faith  without  works  is 
dead?"  (Ibid.,  2:20.) 

Knowledge  From  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  Sure 

Get  that  knowledge  that  you  may  have 
a  testimony.  Knowledge  from  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  sure.  When  it  comes  to  you,  you 
know  and  cannot  deny  it.  Moroni  said: 
"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things." 
(Moroni  10:5.) 


Testimony  By  Divine  Revelation 

It  is  the  primary  function  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  to  testify  of  the  Father  and  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ.  Therefore,  we  bear 
testimony  that  we  know,  and  so  I  testify 
that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  that  God  is  literally  my 
Father  in  heaven.  I  testify  that  by  divine 
revelation  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  the  gospel  has  been  restored  on 
the  earth  in  this  the  last  dispensation 
or  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of 
Times. 

I  testify  that  this  same  authority  to 
hold  the  keys  of  the  priesthood  of  God 
has  been  continued  on  to  the  present 
prophet,  seer,  and  revel  ator,  and  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  President  David  O. 
McKay,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  Chorus  and  congregation  will 
join  in  singing  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  For  a  Prophet,"  after  which  Elder 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank  will  address  us, 
and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Paul 
H.  Dunn  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  BERNARD  P.  BROCKBANK 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Brothers  and  sisters:  It  is  a  wonder- 
ful blessing  and  privilege  to  be  pres- 
ent at  this  great  general  conference  of 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  I  am  thankful  that 
the  Lord  placed  the  "The"  in  the  name 
of  his  Church.  It  is  not  the  Church  of 
some  nation  or  some  normal  outstand- 
ing individual,  but  it  is  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

The  Church  at  the  World's  Fair 

We  are  overjoyed  that  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
represented  with  other  churches  at  the 
New  York  World's  Fair.  The  compari- 
son has  aroused  a  great  deal  of  inter- 
est and  comment. 

As  you  know,  the  Mormon  Pavilion 
is  one  of  the  greatest  and  most  ef- 


fective missionary  opportunities  the 
Church  has  undertaken.  The  entire 
image  and  acceptance  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
have  greatly  improved  in  the  eastern 
part  of  the  United  States  and  through- 
out the  world.  Millions  have  been  im- 
pressed and  spiritually  uplifted  by  the 
exhibits,  the  missionaries,  and  their  testi- 
monies. 

God  Inspired  Teachings  of 
Ancient  Prophets 

The  exhibits  and  program  at  the 
Mormon  Pavilion  are  built  around  the 
God-inspired  teachings  of  the  ancient 
prophets,  around  Jesus  Christ  the  Son 
of  the  Living  God,  around  the  Apostles, 
and  around  eternal  life  as  given  in  the 
scriptures.  Great  emphasis  is  placed  on 


12 

Friday,  October  2 

the  restoration  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  through  a  Prophet  of  God, 
Joseph  Smith. 

Great  emphasis  is  also  placed  on  the 
passage  of  scripture  given  by  the 
Apostle  John  in  the  book  of  Revela- 
tion, wherein  he  said,  "...  I  saw  an- 
other angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven, 
having  the  everlasting  gospel  to 
preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the 
earth,  .  .  ."  (Rev.  14:6.) 

Heavenly  Messengers  to  Ancient 
and  Modern  Prophets 

We  are  bearing  witness  that  the 
Angel  Moroni  came  and  restored  the 
everlasting  gospel  again  to  the  earth 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
God  and  heavenly  messengers  ap- 
peared to  Adam,  Moses,  Abraham, 
Jacob,  and  all  of  the  ancient  prophets. 
Heavenly  messengers  appeared  to  the 
Apostles  Peter,  John,  and  Paul.  At  the 
pavilion  we  teach  and  emphasize  that 
heavenly  messengers,  appearing  to 
God's  chosen  prophets,  are  part  of  God's 
earth  program. 

Comments  of  World's  Fair  Visitors 

I  would  like  to  read  a  few  of  the 
comments  written  by  visitors  to  the 
pavilion: 

"Very  impressive,  very  beautiful, 
so  inspiring  to  see  such  dedicated 
young  missionaries." 

"I  enjoyed  my  visit  to  the  Mormon 
Pavilion  second  to  no  other  exhibit." 

"Like  an  oasis  in  a  desert" 

"Interesting  and  makes  more  sense 
than  any  other  religion." 

"After  seeing  your  movie  on  eternal 
life,  I  no  longer  have  a  fear  of  death." 

"The  paintings  of  the  teachings,  ex- 
periences, and  examples  of  Jesus 
Christ  are  revealing  and  inspiring." 

"Beautiful  pavilion  and  a  religion  I 
would  like  to  know  more  about" 

"Enjoyable  pavilion,  and  it  shows  to 
me  that  there  is  still  a  strong  belief  in 
God  among  the  people  of  the  earth." 

"A  moving  Christian  tribute;  such 
a  pity  more  people  are  not  exposed  to 
your  doctrines  and  missionaries." 

"This  is  a  splendid  witness  to 
the  message  of  God." 

"The  missionaries  do  great  credit  to 
your  Church." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

"This  was  a  beautiful  experience  for 
our  entire  family.  Even  the  children 
enjoyed  it." 

"The  scriptural  truths  are  simply 
beautiful." 

"I  am  awed  at  the  beauty  of  life  and 
eternity  through  the  teachings  of  Jesus 
Christ." 

"I  came  in  as  a  skeptic,  but  my  de- 
sire to  know  more  has  been  stimu- 
lated." 

"Inspiring,  magnificent,  dignified, 
and  sublime,  truly  witnessing  to  the 
Jesus  Christ  of  the  Bible." 

"I  think  this  pavilion  is  breathtak- 
mg. 

"Your  exhibit  and  missionaries  show 
the  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the 
Apostles  as  they  taught  and  exempli- 
fied them  and  as  they  are  found  in  the 
Holy  Bible." 

Mr.  Robert  Moses,  president  of  the 
New  York  World's  Fair,  said,  "You 
have  brought  to  us  from  across  the 
mountains  a  breath  of  the  pioneering 
spirit  and  fresh  air  of  the  West.  Your 
temple  facade  dominates  the  main  en- 
trance to  the  Fair  and  is  the  cynosure  of 
all  eyes,  and  gives  a  noble  first  impres- 
sion to  visitors.  We  thank  you  for  your 
contribution,  congratulate  you  on  your 
success,  and  hope  you  will  remain 
permanently  in  our  midst." 

Mr.  Charles  L.  Petze,  III,  of  Mary- 
ville  College  said  in  a  letter,  "I  would 
like  to  congratulate  you  on  having 
what  I  feel  was  the  best-organized  pa- 
vilion at  the  New  York  World's  Fair. 
It  was  truly  a  pleasure  to  find  some- 
one who  had  something  to  say  and 
knew  how  to  say  it" 

Norman  Vincent  Peale  wrote  this  in 
the  Philadelphia  Inquirer  (July  19, 
1964):  "I  will  defy  anyone,  however 
callous,  to  come  unmoved  out  of  the 
Mormon  exhibit.  They  show  a  marvel- 
ous motion  picture  done  by  top-flight 
actors  that  depicts  the  journey  of  the 
human  soul  from  birth  to  immortality. 
So  glorious  is  it  that  the  viewer  comes 
out  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  but  walking 
on  air." 

Statistics  of  Fair  Communication 

The  New  York  World's  Fair  will 
have  over  33,000,000  attendance  in 
1964,  and  we  will  have  over  3,000,000 


ELDER  PAUL  H.  DUNN 


13 


attend  our  pavilion.  Approximately  ten 
percent  of  all  the  people  attending  the 
World's  Fair  have  attended  the  Mor- 
mon Pavilion.  Our  attendance  has  been 
with  the  upper  ten  percent  of  all  the 
exhibits.  This  we  feel  has  been  a  re- 
markable achievement  for  the  Church. 
We  have  had  over  255,000  referrals  and 
registrations  to  send  to  the  missions 
of  the  Church.  We  have  distributed 
over  2,000,000  pamphlets  to  interested 
people.  Over  1,000,000  have  seen  the 
eternal  life  film  on  Man's  Search  for 
Happiness.  We  have  distributed  over 
36,000  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  we  have  had  over  40,000  inches  of 
favorable  newspaper  and  magazine  pub- 
licity. It  is  estimated  that  over  160,000 
pictures  and  movies  have  been  taken  by 
visitors  of  the  exterior  and  the  interior 
of  the  pavilion. 

Hunger  for  Teachings  of  Christ 

With  millions  coming  to  the  Mormon 
Pavilion  we  have  found  many  who  are 
hungry  for  the  pure,  unchanged  teach- 
ings of  Jesus  Christ.  Many  are  enthusi- 
astic and  happy  to  hear  about  a  church 
that  has  Twelve  Apostles,  a  church  that 
has  a  living  prophet,  a  church  that  has 
the  same  baptism  practised  by  John  the 
Baptist  and  administered  to  Jesus  Christ 
at  the  River  Jordan. 

Many  are  anxious  to  know  more 
about  a  Living  God  who  created  man 
in  his  own  image  and  after  his  own 
likeness.  Many  desire  to  know  more 
about  the  living,  resurrected,  immortal 
Jesus  Christ  and  not  a  God  of  mystery. 
Many  desire  to  know  more  about  the 
heavenly  messengers  who  appeared  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 


Seeking  Evidence  of 
Divine  Power  and  Purpose 

We  have  found  many  who  are  seek- 
ing for  evidence  of  divine  power  and 
eternal  purpose.  Many  are  now  wonder- 
ing about  the  private  interpretations 
men  have  placed  on  the  God-inspired 
scriptures  wherein  they  discontinued  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  changed  the  water 
baptism.  They  have  discontinued  the 
Bible  teaching  of  laying  on  of  hands  to 
bestow  the  Holy  Ghost.  The  law  of 
tithing  was  discontinued  by  many,  and 
there  are  many  other  changes  made 
by  men. 

Needed:  Teachers  by  Example 

Fellow  Saints  and  missionaries,  the 
Church  needs  teachers  who  will  liter- 
ally live  Christianity  as  exemplified 
and  taught  by  Jesus  Christ.  We  need 
to  teach  and  love  people  into  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  There  are  millions  awaiting 
our  witness  and  testimony. 

As  a  tribute  to  our  beloved  prophet, 
David  O.  McKay,  the  greatest  mission- 
ary of  our  time,  let  us  follow  his  pro- 
phetic counsel  and  bring  one  or  more 
souls  into  the  Church  each  year.  With 
love  and  righteousness  in  our  hearts 
and  the  help  of  God,  we  can  achieve 
this  kingdom-building  goal. 

May  this  be  our  great  blessing  and 
privilege,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  Paul  H.  Dunn  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy  will  be  our  next  speaker,  and 
he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Thomas  S. 
Monson  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  PAUL  H.  DUNN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  this  is  indeed 
humbling.  I  am  grateful  for  this  op- 
portunity to  stand  in  your  presence,  to 
feel  of  your  spirit,  and  to  partake  of  the 
sweet  message  from  our  living  prophet 
this  morning.  For  many,  many  years 
I   have    listened   with    you   to  the 


counsel  and  inspiration  of  these  breth- 
ren who  sit  before  us,  and  particularly 
to  our  living  prophet,  as  they  have 
sought  an  interest  in  our  faith  and 
prayers  and  have  asked  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  give  them  the  guid- 
ance and  direction  that  is  needed.  Now 


14 

Friday,  October  2 

I  know  in  a  small  way  why  this  is  so 
significant  as  I  attempt  to  relate  to  you 
a  few  of  the  inner  feelings  of  my  heart 
concerning  this  great  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  was  deeply  touched  by  the 
message  of  our  prophet  this  morning  as 
he  conveyed  to  us  the  inner  feelings  of 
his  heart,  acquired  through  not  only 
many  years  of  experience  but  also 
knowing  and  loving  people  and  being 
in  constant  tune  with  the  living  God. 

Have  you  ever  noticed  that  whenever 
a  person  seems  out  of  sorts  or  somewhat 
cantankerous,  we  often  say,  "He  got  up 
on  the  wrong  side  of  the  bed."  Were  you 
ever  accused  of  having  such  an  attitude? 
A  few  months  ago  I  was  close  to  having 
"one  of  those  days."  It  came  about  in 
this  way: 

A  Chain  of  Events  Shatters  Rest 

About  midnight  I  received  a  tele- 
phone call  from  one  of  the  teachers  in 
our  Institute  of  Religion  program, 
which  I  was  co-ordinating  at  the  time, 
and  he  reported  that  he  couldn't  possi- 
bly teach  his  early  morning  class  the 
next  day  because  of  ill  health.  He 
wondered  if  I  would  teach  it  for  him. 
I  assured  him  I  would  and  told  him  not 
to  worry,  though  I  wondered  how  ade- 
quately the  material  could  be  prepared 
in  the  time  left  that  night  to  meet  the 
challenge  of  the  group.  After  hanging 
up,  I  immediately  started  to  prepare 
my  lesson  and  finally  at  2  am,  not  be- 
ing able  to  see  the  words  on  the  page, 
I  went  to  bed.  Needless  to  say  I  was 
tired  and  in  need  of  a  good  night's 
sleep.  I  didn't  stand  much  chance  of 
getting  it,  however,  since  the  class  next 
morning  met  at  7  am  and  was  thirty 
miles  from  home,  all  of  which  required 
that  I  get  up  at  five  o'clock.  This  meant 
only  three  hours  of  sleep  at  the  most. 

Shortly  after  going  to  bed,  and  not 
having  quite  fallen  asleep,  I  was 
brought  back  to  reality  by  my  four- 
year-old  youngster  who  insisted  that 
she  have  a  drink  of  water — she  simply 
could  not  get  along  without  it  until 
morning.  So,  after  a  hard  struggle,  I 
pulled  myself  together,  secured  the 
drink  of  water,  and  went  back  to  bed 
only  to  be  awakened  a  few  moments 
later  by  another  daughter  who  had  just 
experienced  a  horrible  nightmare.  Her 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

anxious  summons  brought  me  to  my 
feet  in  a  hurry,  and  in  my  excitement 
to  answer  her  call,  I  failed  to  turn  on 
the  hall  light.  As  I  made  my  way  in 
the  dark,  I  was  suddenly  stopped  in  my 
journey  by  a  door  that  had  been  left 
ajar.  After  a  few  seconds  and  with  a 
newly  acquired  bump,  I  hastened  to  her 
side  and  gave  the  comfort  that  was 
needed. 

Once  again  I  crawled  back  between 
the  warm  covers  with  a  hope  that  the 
remaining  hours  would  give  peace  and 
rest,  only  to  be  brought  slyly  and  slowly 
back  to  life  by  my  wife  who  had  been 
awakened  by  the  previous  interruptions. 
She  had  just  remembered  that  she 
needed  the  car  the  next  morning  for 
her  church  assignment  and  was  won- 
dering what  arrangements  could  be  made 
in  order  that  we  both  might  meet  our 
appointments.  When  the  problem  was 
finally  solved,  it  was  three  o'clock,  and 
when,  shortly  after,  the  alarm  rang  at 
five,  you  can  imagine  how  I  felt.  After 
such  a  night  I  was  getting  up  on  the 
wrong  side  of  the  bed,  and  my  attitude 
was  not  the  kind  that  should  be  taken 
into  a  class  of  religion. 

Gloom  Dispelled — Brightness 
Restored: 

"You  Are  the  Best  Daddy" 

And  then  it  happened — the  little 
thing  that  changed  the  gloom  of  the 
night  into  the  brightness  of  a  beautiful 
day.  As  I  was  leaving  the  house,  the 
four-year-old  who  had  started  the  series 
of  events  the  night  before,  appeared 
at  the  door,  pulled  on  my  coat- 
tail  and  then,  with  my  help,  climbed 
into  my  arms,  took  hold  of  both  of  my 
ears  with  her  little  hands  and  without 
any  warning  kissed  me  as  hard  as  she 
could  right  on  the  nose  and  said, 
"Daddy,  I  sure  do  love  you.  You  are 
sure  a  good  sport."  "A  good  sport,  eh  I" 
and  I  tried  to  smile  away  the  frown 
that  had  settled  throughout  my  whole 
system.  "Yep!  you're  the  best  daddy 
in  the  whole  world,"  and  planting  an- 
other kiss  on  my  neck,  she  slid  to  the 
floor  and  ran  back  to  her  bed. 

Count  Your  Blessings 

What  was  about  to  be  a  bad  morning 
for  me  turned  out  to  be  one  of  my  best. 
As  I  drove  to  my  assignment  with  a 


ELDER  PAl 

song  in  my  heart,  I  thought  of  my 
many  blessings:  my  lovely,  dedicated 
wife  and  family,  the  fact  that  I  belong 
to  Christ's  Church  in  reality,  that  I  am 
a  member  of  this  great  country  of  ours, 
a  citizen  indeed,  that  I  enjoy  the  free- 
doms that  we  all  so  often  take  for 
granted.  And  it  was  all  brought  back 
to  my  remembrance  by  a  simple  kiss  on 
the  nose.  This  little  four-year-old  with 
tender  love  and  appreciation  had  re- 
stored my  perspective  of  life  and 
brought  to  my  attention  once  again  the 
real  values  we  all  seek. 

Then  I  began  to  think  how  easy  it 
had  been  for  me  to  let  such  a  little  thing 
as  a  sleepless  night  make  me  forget 
for  a  moment  these  same  values  and 
how  everything  I  would  have  done  that 
day  might  have  been  affected  by  my 
resulting  attitude.  Luckily  I  was 
brought  back  to  reality,  but  how  often 
do  all  of  us  let  the  "get  up  on  the  wrong 
side  of  the  bed"  attitude  become  a  habit 
that  dominates  our  everyday  thoughts 
and  lets  problems  or  the  desire  for  in- 
stant and  usually  temporary  sat- 
isfactions become  so  important  that 
long-range  goals  and  objectives  are 
forgotten.  While  certain  problems  must 
be  worried  about  and  temporal  satis- 
factions must  be  met,  these  things  are 
only  important  to  us  as  a  means  to  an 
end — as  the  means  of  getting  where 
we  eventually  want  to  go.  Ultimate 
happiness,  the  kind  we  all  want,  does 
not  come  from  continuously  being  tem- 
porarily satisfied,  continuously  seeking 
the  physical  and  emotional  comforts 
of  life  and  being  so  dissatisfied  with 
anything  else  that  we  permit  ourselves 
to  forget  our  blessings  and  responsi- 
bilities, to  forget  the  Lord  and  his  love 
for  us  and  his  willingness  to  help  us  in 
our  pursuit  of  life  and  happiness.  "For 
what  shall  it  profit  a  man,  if  he  shall 
gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his  own 
soul?"  (Mark  8:36.) 

Value  of  Objective 

Someone  has  said,  "Life  is  of  value 
only  when  it  has  something  valuable  as 
its  objective."  What  objective?  The 
Lord  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  told  David  Whitmer,  one  of  the 
three  witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
that  eternal  life  was  the  greatest  of  all 


L  H.  DUNN  15 

the  gifts  of  God.  (See  D&C  14:7.) 
What  better  objective  is  there  than 
this  for  our  lives?  Knowing  this  to  be 
true  as  I  do  through  personal  testi- 
mony, I  would  like  to  speak  especially 
to  you  young  people  who  are  in  the  vi- 
tal planning  stage  of  your  lives,  and  to 
those  parents  and  teachers  who  guide 
you,  about  the  importance  of  properly 
focusing  your  values.  We  all,  as  well 
as  you,  yourselves,  want  the  best  for 
you  now  and  forever.  The  best  is  a 
knowledge  of  and  love  for  our  Heav- 
enly Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
and  a  life  of  happiness  here  on  earth 
that  will  eventually  lead  you  to  the  de- 
sired objective  of  eternal  life.  How  do 
we  determine  the  values  that  will  ac- 
complish this?  Through  religion  which 
encompasses  all  the  principles  that 
give  us  strength,  determination,  and 
faith  to  push  forward.  Living  as  we  do 
today  in  a  world  that  seems  to  be  be- 
coming more  godless  by  the  moment, 
an  occasional  or  even  weekly  visit  to 
church  is  not  often  enough  to  gain  us 
the  knowledge  we  need.  Religion  must 
be  a  daily  affair,  entering  into  every 
phase  of  our  existence.  It  was  to  pro- 
vide this  daily  education  and  exposure 
to  religion  that  the  seminaries,  insti- 
tutes of  religion,  and  church  colleges 
were  established,  and  this  is  why  they 
should  play  such  an  important  role  in 
the  lives  of  you  young  people  today. 

Youth  Need  Religion 

Today  more  than  ever  before  our 
youth  need  religion.  Some  years  ago 
our  beloved  Prophet  David  O.  McKay  in 
an  editorial  gave  a  number  of  reasons 
for  giving  proper  religious  training  to 
our  youth.  I'd  like  to  refer  to  three  of 
his  points: 

First,  he  said,  "Youth  need  religion  to 
maintain  a  proper  equilibrium  during 
the  formative  period  of  their  lives." 
(Treasures  of  Life,  p.  493.)  Young 
people  tend  to  be  impetuous  and  some- 
times, in  trying  to  formulate  their  con- 
clusions, have  a  tendency  to  look  upon 
parents  as  old-fashioned,  but  they  give 
confidence  to  others  who  seem  to  be 
leading  them  into  new  realms  and 
higher  planes.  Now  when,  under  these 
conditions,  the  young  person  receives 
something  which  seems  to  conflict  with 


16 

Friday,  October  2 

his  previous  notions  of  religion  and 
right,  he  is  likely  to  be  swayed  beyond 
his  proper  equilibrium.  Youth  today 
are  thinking  more  than  ever  before, 
and  they  need  to  have  a  daily  influence 
which  will  keep  them  in  proper  balance. 

Second,  President  McKay  said, 
"Youth  should  have  religion  in  order 
to  stabilize  our  society."  (Ibid.,  p.  495.) 
It  was  Goethe  who  observed  that  "The 
destiny  of  any  nation  at  any  given  time 
depends  on  the  opinion  of  its  young 
men  under  five  and  twenty."  (Cited 
idem.)  Speaking  of  the  need  of  sta- 
bility in  our  society  makes  me  remem- 
ber, thinking  as  a  soldier  during  World 
War  II  what  a  tragedy  that  so  much 
destruction,  pain,  and  suffering  had  to 
exist  in  a  world  that  had  achieved  such 
brilliance  in  so  many  fields,  for  in- 
stance, the  sciences.  I  can't  help  re- 
calling the  magnificent  M-l  rifle  that 
was  placed  into  my  hands  when  I  was  an 
infantryman  and  how  grateful  I  was  for 
the  protection  it  gave  me.  The  brilliance 
that  went  into  creating  this  weapon  of 
war  is  outstanding,  and  yet  its  utiliza- 
tion was  a  sad  commentary  on  life,  for 
many  times  I  was  required  in  the  de- 
fense of  this  country  to  pull  the  trigger 
to  take  the  life  of  a  fellow  human  being 
because  of  this  very  thing  that  our  be- 
loved prophet  has  indicated  to  us  in  his 
editorial. 

Robert  A.  Millikan,  himself  a  re- 
nowned scientist,  has  said  this  about 
his  own  field:  "Science  without  religion 
obviously  may  become  a  curse  rather 
than  a  blessing  to  mankind.  But  science 
dominated  by  the  spirit  of  religion  is 
the  key  to  progress  and  the  hope  of  the 
future."  (Cited  idem.)  This  suggests 
that  scientific  leaders  of  the  future,  as 
well  as  leaders  in  all  fields,  will  need 
spiritual   understanding   and  training. 

Third,  youth  need  religion  to  satisfy 
the  innate  longing  of  the  soul.  "Man," 
President  McKay  has  said,  "is  a  spirit- 
ual being,  and  sometime  or  another 
every  man  is  possessed  with  a  longing, 
an  irresistible  desire  to  know  his  rela- 
tionship to  the  infinite.  He  realizes  that 
he  is  not  just  a  physical  object  that  is 
to  be  tossed  for  just  a  short  time  from 
bank  to  bank,  only  to  be  submerged  fi- 
nally in  the  ever-flowing  stream  of 
life.  There  is  something  within  him 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

which  urges  him  to  rise  above  him- 
self, to  control  his  environment,  to 
master  the  body  and  all  things  physi- 
cal and  live  in  a  higher  and  more  beau- 
tiful world." 

Three  Great  Needs 

He  goes  on  to  give  three  great  needs 
associated  with  the  spiritual  urge  which 
have  been  felt  throughout  the  centu- 
ries: "1.  Every  normal  person  yearns 
to  know  something  of  God.  What  is  he 
like?  Is  he  interested  in  the  human 
family  or  does  he  disregard  it  entirely? 
2.  What  is  the  best  life  to  live  in  this 
world  in  order  to  be  most  successful 
and  to  get  the  most  happiness?  3.  What 
is  that  inevitable  thing  called  death? 
What  is  beyond  it?  If  you  want  your 
answer  to  these  longings  of  the  human 
soul,  you  must  come  to  the  Church  and 
come  often  to  get  it."  (Ibid.,  pp.  495- 
496.) 

Youth  need  religion.  The  world 
needs  it — in  fact,  it  is  the  world's 
greatest  need.  It  is  my  humble  prayer 
that  you  young  people  everywhere, 
along  with  your  parents,  will  see  the 
need  for  constant,  daily  exposure  to 
religious  education  and  that  you  will 
support  it  with  interest  and  enthusi- 
asm. By  keeping  your  energies  and 
values  properly  focused,  you,  as  well  as 
we,  can  in  reality  inherit  eternal  life. 

How  grateful  I  am  this  morning  for 
the  testimony  I  have  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  the  meaning  and 
understanding  that  this  gives  me  that 
God  really  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  called 
and  ordained  of  God  to  establish  again 
his  Church  in  these  latter  days,  and  to 
have  the  full  assurance  and  knowledge 
that  David  O.  McKay  is  a  living  prophet 
of  the  Lord.  And  while  I  have  been  a 
member  of  this  Church  all  my  life,  I 
have  had  that  glorious  opportunity  of 
standing  in  his  presence  and  having 
spirit  touch  spirit,  giving  me  the  com- 
plete verification  that  these  things  are 
true.  I  bear  you  my  witness  humbly 
and  gratefully  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 


17 


is  Elder  Paul  H.  Dunn  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  Elder  Thomas  S. 


Monson  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  be  our  concluding  speaker,  please. 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  the  responsi- 
bility of  standing  before  you  humbles 
me,  and  I  sincerely  seek  an  interest  in 
your  prayers  that  I  might  have  the  help 
of  the  Lord. 

This  morning  as  Sister  Monson  and  I 
drove  down  here  to  this  beautiful  Taber- 
nacle, I  heard  a  familiar  sound.  I  heard 
a  school  bell  ring,  and  I  saw  scores  of 
boys  and  girls  of  every  age  hurry  this 
way  and  scurry  that  way  to  the  class- 
rooms of  learning.  They  were  in  search 
of  truth.  This  is  the  season  of  the  year, 
too,  when  the  colleges  and  universities 
throughout  the  land  open  wide  their 
doors  that  eager  students  might  con- 
tinue this  search  for  truth.  Their  teachers 
and  scientists  of  all  fields  pursue 
their  constant  labor  of  studying,  experi- 
menting— ever  continuing  this  same 
search. 

Yearning  for  Truth 

Is  the  search  for  truth  really  this  im- 
portant? Is  it  so  vital?  Must  it  span  the 
ages  of  time,  encompass  every  field  of 
endeavor,  and  penetrate  every  human 
heart?  President  David  O.  McKay  has 
said,  "Fortunately,  there  is  a  natural 
feeling  which  urges  men  and  women  to- 
ward truth.  It  is  a  responsibility  placed 
upon  mankind." 

Even  the  law  of  the  land  jealously 
safeguards  the  principle  of  truth.  In 
our  courts  of  law,  before  a  witness  takes 
the  stand  to  testify,  he  is  placed  under 
solemn  oath  ".  .  .  the  testimony  you 
are  about  to  give  ...  is  the  truth, 
the  whole  truth  and  nothing  but  the 
truth,  .  .  ." 

The  poet  captured  the  real  significance 
of  the  search  for  truth  when  he  wrote 
these  immortal  lines: 

".  .  .  say,  what  is  truth? 
Tis  the  brightest  prize 
To  which  mortals  or  Gods  can  aspire; 
Go  search  in  the  depths  where  it  glitter- 
ing lies 

Or  ascend  in  pursuit  to  the  loftiest  skies. 
Tis  an  aim  for  the  noblest  desire. 


"Then  say,  what  is  truth? 

'Tis  the  last  and  the  first, 

For  the  limits  of  time  it  steps  o'er. 

Though  the  heavens  depart  and  the 

earth's  fountains  burst, 
Truth,  the  sum  of  existence,  will  weather 

the  worst, 
Eternal,  unchanged,  evermore." 

(John  Jaques,  Hymns,  p.  143.) 

Truth  Defined 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  received 
the  definition  of  truth  in  a  revelation 
from  the  Lord  at  Kirtland,  Ohio,  May 
6,  1833.  ".  .  .  truth  is  knowledge  of 
things  as  they  are,  and  as  they  were, 
and  as  they  are  to  come.  .  .  ."  (D&C 
93:24.) 

Preceding  almost  every  declaration  of 
eternal  truth  has  been  a  universal  ques- 
tion; for  instance,  what  man  has  not 
asked  himself  as  did  Job  of  old,  "If 
a  man  die,  shall  he  live  again?  .  .  ." 
(Job  14:14.)  And  what  man  has  not 
found  comfort  in  the  answer  which  the 
angel  gave  to  Mary  Magdalene  and 
Mary,  the  mother  of  James,  when  they 
approached  the  tomb  to  care  for  the 
body  of  the  Master.  He  said,  "Why 
seek  ye  the  living  among  the  dead? 

"He  is  not  here,  but  is  risen:  .  .  ." 
(Luke  24:5-6.) 

"If  Any  Lack  Wisdom, 
Let  Him  Ask  of  God" 

Thousands  of  honest,  searching  souls 
continue  to  be  confronted  by  that  pene- 
trating question  which  coursed  through 
the  mind  of  Joseph  Smith  as  he  surveyed 
the  declarations  made  by  the  churches 
of  his  community  concerning  who  was 
right  and  who  was  wrong.  Joseph  said: 
"In  the  midst  of  this  war  of  words  and 
tumult  of  opinions,  I  often  said  to  my- 
self: .  .  .  Who  of  all  these  parties  are 
right;  ...  If  any  one  of  them  be  right, 
which  is  it,  and  how  shall  I  know  it? 

"...  I  at  length  came  to  the  determi- 
nation to  'ask  of  God,'  .  .  ."  (Joseph 
Smith  2:10,  13.)  He  prayed.  The  results 


18  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  2 

of  that  prayer  are  best  described  in 
Joseph's  own  words: 

"...  I  saw  two  Personages,  whose 
brightness  and  glory  defy  all  description, 
standing  above  me  in  the  air.  One  of 
them  spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by 
name  and  said,  pointing  to  the  other — 
This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Himl" 
(Ibid.,  2:17.)  Joseph  listened.  Joseph 
learned.  His  question,  "What  is  truth?" 
was  answered. 

Perhaps  one  of  the  most  significant 
exchanges  of  question  and  answer  oc- 
curred when  Jesus  was  taken  before 
Pilate.  Pilate  asked  the  Master,  "Art 
thou  a  king  .  .  .  ?  Jesus  answered,  Thou 
sayest  that  I  am  a  king.  To  this  end  was 
I  born,  and  for  this  cause  came  I  into  the 
world,  that  I  should  bear  witness  unto 
the  truth.  Every  one  that  is  of  the 
truth  heareth  my  voice."  (John  18:37.) 

The  True  Church 

Is  the  voice  of  the  Lord  heard  today? 
How  does  it  come  to  man?  Can  your 
search  for  truth  be  guided  by  his  voice? 
Can  mine?  Todav,  as  always  when  the 
true  Church  of  Christ  is  on  the  earth, 
there  stands  at  its  head  a  prophet.  And 
just  as  the  voice  of  the  Lord  came  to 
Jeremiah,  Ezekiel,  and  Isaiah,  it  has 
likewise  come  to  latter-day  prophets. 

"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing, 
but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his 
servants  the  prophets."  (Amos  3:7.) 

Do  we  need  a  prophet  today?  Does 
God  regard  his  children  today  as  dearly 
as  he  did  when  Amos,  Jeremiah,  and 
Ezekiel  were  on  the  earth?  One  of  the 
foremost  educators  in  America,  Dr. 
Robert  Gordon  Sproul,  described  the 
need  in  these  words:  "We  have  the  pe- 
culiar spectacle  of  a  nation,  which  to  a 
limited  extent,  practices  Christianity 
without  actively  believing  in  Christian- 
ity. We  are  asked  to  turn  to  the  church 
for  enlightenment,  but  when  we  do  we 
find  that  the  voice  of  the  church  is  not 
inspired.  The  voice  of  the  church  today 
is  the  echo  of  our  own  voices.  And  the 
result  of  this  experience  already  manifest 
is  disillusionment.  The  way  out  is  the 
sound  of  a  voice,  not  our  voice,  but  a 
voice  coming  from  somewhere  not  our- 
selves in  the  existence  of  which  we  can- 
not disbelieve.  It  is  the  task  of  the  pastors 
to  hear  this  voice,  cause  us  to  hear  it 


First  Day 

and  tell  us  what  it  says.  If  they  cannot 
hear  it  or  if  they  fail  to  tell  us  what  it 
says,  we  as  laymen  are  wholly  lost. 
Without  it  we  are  no  more  capable  of 
saving  the  earth  than  we  were  capable  of 
creating  it  in  the  first  place." 

From  still  another  field  of  endeavor, 
Sir  Winston  Churchill  described  the 
need:  "I  have  lived  perhaps  longer  ex- 
perience than  almost  anyone  and  I 
have  never  brooded  over  a  situation 
which  demanded  more  patience,  com- 
posure, courage  and  perseverance  than 
that  which  unfolds  itself  before  us  to- 
day— the  need  of  a  prophet." 

The  Channel  of  Truth  is  Open 

How  grateful  we  should  be  that  reve- 
lation, the  clear  and  uncluttered  channel 
of  truth,  is  still  open.  Our  Heavenly 
Father  continues  to  inspire  his  proph- 
ets. This  inspiration  can  serve  as  a 
sure  guide  in  making  life's  decisions.  It 
will  lead  us  to  truth. 

You  do  not  find  truth  groveling 
through  error.  Truth  is  found  by  search- 
ing, studying,  and  living  the  revealed 
word  of  God.  We  learn  truth  when  we 
associate  with  truth.  We  adopt  error 
when  we  mingle  with  error. 

The  Lord  instructed  us  concerning 
how  we  might  distinguish  between  truth 
and  error  when  he  said:  ".  .  .  that  which 
doth  not  edify  is  not  of  God,  and  is 

"That' which  is  of  God  is  light;  .  .  ." 
(D&C  50:23-24.) 

Recently,  I  attended  a  large  youth 
conference  at  Edmonton,  Alberta,  Can- 
ada. A  part  of  the  conference  was  a 
testimony  meeting  where  the  young  men 
and  young  women  could  express  the 
feelings  of  the  heart. 

A  shv  boy  from  Saskatchewan,  stand- 
ing before  such  an  imposing  audience 
for  the  first  time,  said,  "Before  I  attended 
this  youth  conference  I  could  say,  'I 
think  the  gospel  is  true.'  Then  I  received 
instruction,  participated  in  the  activi- 
ties, and  felt  of  the  spirit  of  all  of  you. 
Today,  at  the  conclusion  of  these  in- 
spired events,  I  proudly,  yet  humbly, 
declare  'I  know  the  gospel  is  true.' "  He 
had  been  edified.  He  had  been  enlight- 
ened. He  had  found  the  truth. 

In  July  I  visited  the  World's  Fair  at 
New  York  City.  I  found  the  fair  most 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 


19 


interesting  and  took  special  note  of 
the  religious  exhibits.  At  the  Mormon 
Pavilion  I  sat  by  an  alert  young  man 
of  perhaps  thirty-five  years.  We  spoke 
about  the  other  exhibits  at  the  fair.  Then 
the  lights  dimmed.  The  picture,  "Man's 
Search  for  Happiness,"  commenced.  At 
the  conclusion  of  this  portrayal  of  the 
plan  of  salvation,  the  lights  again 
brought  the  present  to  our  view.  The 
crowd  silently  filed  out,  some  stopping 
to  wipe  a  tear  from  a  moist  eye.  Others 
were  visibly  impressed.  My  visitor  did 
not  arise.  I  asked  if  he  enjoyed  the  film. 
He  answered,  "This  is  the  truth."  One 
man's  search  for  truth  had  just  ended. 

For  those  who  humbly  seek,  there  is 
no  need  to  stumble  or  falter  along  the 
pathway  leading  to  truth.  It  is  well 
marked  by  our  Heavenly  Father.  We 
must  first  have  a  desire  to  know  for  our- 
selves. We  must  study.  We  must  pray. 
We  must  do  the  will  of  the  Father.  And 
then  we  will  know  the  truth,  and  the 
truth  will  make  us  free.  Divine  favor 
will  attend  those  who  humbly  seek  it. 

One  week  ago  last  Wednesday  I  was 
privileged  to  set  apart  William  Agnew 
for  his  mission.  I  reviewed  with  him  his 
conversion  and  that  of  his  family,  some 
five  years  ago  in  eastern  Canada.  The 
family  had  been  seeking  truth.  The 
missionaries  called  and  presented  the 
teachings  of  the  gospel.  The  members  of 
the  family  studied.  They  loved  what 
they  learned.  They  were  approaching  the 
decision  to  be  baptized.  One  Sunday 
morning  the  family,  by  previous  ap- 
pointment, were  preparing  to  attend  the 
"Mormon"  Sunday  School.  Mother  and 
the  children  readied  themselves  but 
were  disappointed  when  Dad  concluded 
not  to  attend.  They  even  argued  some- 
what about  the  decision.  Then  Mother 
and  the  children  went  to  Sunday  School, 
and  Dad  angrily  stayed  at  home.  He  first 
attempted  to  forget  the  misunderstand- 
ing by  reading  the  newspaper,  but  to  no 
avail.  Then  he  went  to  his  daughter 
Isabelle's  room  and  turned  on  the  radio 
which  occupied  her  night  stand,  hoping 
to  hear  the  news.  He  didn't  hear  the 
news.  Rather,  he  heard  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  Elder  Evans'  message,  it  seemed, 
was  directed  personally  to  him.  Brother 
Agnew  realized  the  futility  of  his  anger. 
He  was  now  overpowered  by  a  feeling 
of  gratitude  for  the  message  he  had  just 


received.  When  his  wife  and  family  re- 
turned home,  they  found  him  pleasant 
and  happy.  His  children  asked  how  this 
change  had  come  about.  He  told  them 
how  he  had  turned  on  the  radio,  hoping 
to  get  the  news,  only  to  be  humbled  by 
the  message  of  the  choir  in  word  and 
song.  His  daughter  said,  "Which  radio 
did  you  use,  Dad?"  He  answered,  "The 
one  on  your  night  stand."  She  replied, 
"That  radio  is  broken.  It  hasn't  played 
for  weeks."  He  led  them  to  the  room 
to  prove  that  this  radio  did  indeed 
function.  Hadn't  he  just  heard  the  choir 
and  a  message  that  had  inspired  and 
humbled  him?  He  turned  the  proper 
dial.  But  that  radio  didn't  play.  Yet 
when  an  honest  seeker  after  truth  needed 
the  help  of  God,  that  radio  did  play. 
The  message  which  led  to  conversion 
was  received.  Needless  to  say,  the  family 
became  stalwart  members  of  the  Church. 

There  will  be  those  who  doubt,  who 
scoff,  who  ridicule,  who  scorn.  They  will 
turn  from  the  pathway  leading  to  eter- 
nal truth  and  rather  travel  the  slippery 
slopes  of  error  and  disillusionment. 

But  to  those  who  honestly  seek,  those 
to  whom  so  much  has  been  given,  to 
the  faithful,  the  Lord  our  God  has 
promised: 

"For  they  that  are  wise  and  have  re- 
ceived the  truth,  and  have  taken  the 
Holy  Spirit  for  their  guide,  and  have  not 
been  deceived — verily  I  say  unto  you, 
they  .  .  .  shall  abide  the  day."  (Ibid., 
45:57.) 

May  we  be  wise;  may  we  persevere  in 
search  of  truth  and  always  take  the  Holy 
Spirit  for  our  guide,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  Thomas  S.  Monson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  been  our  conclud- 
ing speaker.  The  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  Juab,  Sanpete,  and 
Richfield  areas,  will  now  favor  us  with 
the  beautiful  anthem,  "Eternal  Life." 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Horace  A.  Christiansen,  formerly 
president  of  the  Western  States  Mission, 
after  which  this  Conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  after- 
noon. 


20 

Friday,  October  2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Vint  Day 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Our  beloved  leader  and  Prophet, 
President  David  O.  McKay,  who  is  pre- 
siding over  all  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence, has  asked  me  to  conduct  the  service 
this  afternoon.  He  sends  his  greetings 
and  blessings  to  all  assembled  here  and 
God's  children  everywhere. 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  the  second  general 
session  of  the  134th  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  Through  the  generous 
cooperation  of  their  owners  and  man- 
agers a  total  of  150  television  and  30 
radio  stations  will  carry  to  practically 
every  state  in  the  union  and  many 
foreign  countries  the  proceedings  of 
some  sessions  of  this  Conference.  The 
names  of  the  stations  carrying  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  session  were  announced 
to  the  televisison  and  radio  audience 
just  prior  to  this  meeting.  We  appreciate 
the  courtesy  of  these  owners  and  man- 
agers in  broadcasting  the  program  of 
this  Conference. 

These  services  are  also  being  broad- 
cast in  the  Assembly  Hall.  Those  who 
may  be  standing  in  the  doorways  may 
possibly  find  seats  in  that  building.  The 
Tabernacle  is  filled  to  overflowing  this 
Friday  afternoon.  Probably  many  thou- 
sands who  are  not  able  to  attend  are 
listening  in  on  their  radios  and  tele- 
visions. We  extend  a  hearty  welcome  to 
our  unseen  audience  and  to  all  who  are 
gathered  in  this  great  hall. 

We  again  acknowledge  with  apprecia- 
tion the  presence  of  stake  presidencies, 
high  councilmen,  bishoprics,  temple 
presidencies,  general  auxiliary  officers, 
patriarchs,  and  others,  and  also  extend 
a  hearty  welcome  and  express  satisfac- 
tion and  pleasure  in  the  attendance  of 
special  guests,  prominent  men  in  the 
nation  and  state. 

This  afternoon  we  are  favored  again 
by  the  presence  of  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  from  the  Juab,  Sanpete, 


and  Richfield  areas,  with  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  conducting  and  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  We  shall  begin 
these  services  by  the  Relief  Society  Sing- 
ing Mothers  singing  "God  of  All 
Nature." 

The  invocation  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  E.  Carlyle  Bunker,  president  of 
the  Orem  West  Stake. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  this  song,  "God 
of  All  Nature." 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  "Go  Ye  Forth 
With  My  Word,"  conducted  by  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  first  coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  will  now 
present  the  General  Authorities,  the 
General  Officers,  General  Auxiliary  Of- 
ficers of  the  Church  for  the  sustaining 
vote  of  this  Conference. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

(Sustaining  of  General  Authorities) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  President 
Clark  so  often  said,  this  is  not  a  mere 
pro  forma  matter.  It  is  not  mere  routine, 
but  it  is  the  exercise  of  a  right  which  the 
Lord  gave  to  the  people  of  his  Church 
to  indicate  their  willingness  to  support 
those  who  are  asked  to  preside  in  various 
positions  in  the  Church.  This  privilege, 
of  course,  is  accompanied  by  a  responsi- 
bility, namely,  that  we  will  support 
these  officers  by  carrying  out  the  work 
assigned  to  us  in  our  various  capacities 
from  time  to  time. 

It  is  now  proposed  that  we  sustain 
David  O.  McKay  as  Prophet,  Seer,  and 
Revelator  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  All 
who  favor  this  proposal  please  make  it 
manifest.  .  .  .: 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  21 
GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Marion  G.  Romney 

Harold  B.  Lee  LeGrand  Richards 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Howard  W.  Hunter 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Thomas  S.  Monson 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Alma  Sonne  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen  Franklin  D.  Richards 

John  Longden  Theodore  M.  Burton 

Sterling  W.  Sill  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Henry  D.  Taylor  Boyd  K.  Packer 

Wm.  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.  Bernard  P.  Brockbank 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 

Milton  R.  Hunter  Paul  Harold  Dunn 
Bruce  R.  McConkie 

The  Presiding  Bishopric 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding  Bishop 
Robert  L.  Simpson,  First  Counselor 
Victor  L.  Brown,  Second  Counselor 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First 


Church  Historian  and  Recorder 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant. 
GENERAL  CHURCH  PRIESTHOOD  COMMITTEES 

Priesthood  Welfare  Committee 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Chairman 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 

Priesthood  Home  Teaching  Committee 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Chairman 
John  H.  Vandenberg,  Vice  Chairman 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 

Priesthood  Missionary  Committee 

Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Chairman  of  Executive  Committee 
Gordon  B.  Hinckely,  Managing  Director 
Boyd  K.  Packer,  Associate  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 

Priesthood  Genealogical  Committee 

Howard  W.  Hunter,  Chairman 
Theodore  M.  Burton,  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 


Marion  G.  Romney 

Acting  Chancellor  of  the  Church  School  System 


Harvey  L.  Taylor 

Church  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 


Church  Board  of  Education 


David  O.  McKay 
Hugh  B.  Brown 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 
Mark  E.  Petersen 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 


LeGrand  Richards 
Richard  L.  Evans 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley 
Thomas  S.  Monson 
Boyd  K.  Packer 
Marion  D.  Hanks 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 
John  H.  Vandenberg 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


Senior  Church  Auditors 

Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Asisstant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

G.  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  General  Superintendent 
Marvin  J.  Ashton,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Florence  Smith  Jacobsen,  President 
Margaret  Romney  Jackson,  First  Counselor 
Dorothy  Porter  Holt,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  Watts  Parmley,  President 
Leone  Watson  Doxey,  First  Counselor 
Lucile  Cardon  Reading,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Isaac  M.  Stewart,  President 
Theodore  L.  Cannon,  Vice  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 
W.  Jack  Thomas,  Tour  Manager 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 


24 

Friday,  October  2 

The  voting,  as  far  as  I  can  note,  is 
unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  first  coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency,  has  just 
presented  the  General  Authorities  and 
general  officers  and  general  Auxiliary 
Officers  of  the  Church  for  your  sustain- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

ing  vote.  We  thank  you,  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  this  unanimous  sustaining 
vote  this  afternoon.  We  are  grateful  to 
you  for  your  faith  and  loyalty  to  the 
great  cause  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the 
speaker  this  afternoon,  and  he  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


A  Parable 

May  I  preface  my  talk  with  a  parable. 
"Then  shall  the  kingdom  of  heaven  be 
likened  unto  a  certain  man.  .  ."  (See 
Matt.  20:1.) 

John  and  Mary  were  married  by 
their  bishop  in  his  palatial  home,  and 
the  ceremony  included  the  phrase,  "so 
long  as  you  both  shall  live."  Relatives 
and  friends  exclaimed,  "What  a  hand- 
some, promising  couple!"  Life  seemed  to 
offer  everything  two  delightful  people 
could  hope  for. 

It  was  a  civil  ceremony,  but  they 
promised  themselves  that  they  would 
soon  get  their  house  in  order  and  go  to 
the  Lord's  temple  to  have  their  mar- 
riage eternalized.  They  loved  each 
other  intensely.  They  had  some  knowl- 
edge of  and  faith  in  the  principle  of 
eternal  marriage,  but  carelessness  in 
their  pattern  of  living  and  bad  habits 
precluded  their  conscientiously  asking 
the  bishop  for  a  recommend  to  enter  the 
sacred  precincts  of  the  temple. 

Time  passed.  Children  came.  John 
was  active  in  community  life.  His 
pleasing  personality  made  him  many 
friends.  Mary  grew  more  lovely  as 
the  children  came,  and  sweet  mother- 
hood and  wifehood  expanded  her  vi- 
sion and  enlarged  her  soul.  The  love 
she  bore  for  her  husband  grew  con- 
stantly, and  as  their  lives  grew  to- 
gether, she  came  to  realize  how  she 
wanted  him  forever.  She  came  to  sense 
her  predicament.  Shadows  gathered. 
He  was  not  religiously  inclined,  he  said; 
some  day  he  would  move  toward  the 
temple. 

She  took  some  part  in  church  ac- 


tivity but  when  there  came  conflict 
between  church  service  and  his  Sabbath 
interests,  she  felt  that  she  should  be 
with  her  husband — she  loved  him  so 
very  much.  The  children  grew  and 
were  happy  in  the  Church  until  teen- 
age activities  brought  carefree,  lei- 
surely Sabbaths — rides,  dates,  skiing — 
and  they  also  began  to  bypass  their 
religious  duties. 

One  day  the  clouds  lowered,  and 
trouble  came.  It  was  on  one  of  those 
Sunday  canyon  picnics.  An  excellent 
driver,  John  was  not  at  fault  for  the 
crash  when  a  drinking  driver  left  both 
cars  junk  and  two  loved  ones  mangled 
and  lifeless. 

When  the  bodies  of  his  beloved  Mary 
and  sweet  little  Alice  had  been  buried 
with  all  solemnity  and  every  tender 
affection,  John  found  his  life  lonely 
indeed.  The  nights  were  so  long,  the 
house  so  empty,  the  days  so  barren, 
life  so  vain  and  desolate.  He  devoted 
himself  to  his  work  and  to  his  other 
children,  but  his  world  seemed  to  have 
been  buried  in  a  hillside  grave. 

At  the  table  the  circle  was  incom- 
plete. There  were  two  vacant  places. 
Social  life  had  no  interest  for  him. 
No  one  knew  how  he  suffered.  No  one 
knew  how  his  heart  ached.  His 
thoughts  were  constantly  of  Mary, 
his  companion,  his  beloved,  the  mother 
of  his  children.  When  he  returned  from 
his  work,  it  seemed  she  should  be  there 
to  slip  into  his  arms;  when  he  awakened 
in  the  morning,  it  seemed  he  could  not 
get  over  expecting  to  find  her  by  his 
side.  His  first  and  last  conscious 
thoughts  were  of  Mary. 

Then  this  night  came  the  dream,  or 


ELDER  SPENC 

was  it  a  dream,  for  he  seemed  to  be 
so  much  awake.  Unlike  hundreds  of 
his  other  dreams  which  had  faded  into 
oblivion  with  the  coming  of  the  dawn, 
this  impressive  one  lingered  all  the  day. 

It  seemed  he  was  in  a  world  where 
he  had  never  been  before.  He  was 
looking  through  a  wide,  heavy,  open 
gate  leading  into  a  beautiful  area  in 
which  the  central  figures  were  a 
woman  and  a  little  girl.  Gradually,  he 
became  conscious  of  their  identity,  and 
he  felt  a  warm  glow  as  he  recognized 
little  Alice  with  her  mother.  Mary  was 
more  lovely  than  ever;  her  charm  and 
beauty  had  been  accentuated.  She  was 
captivating,  heavenly,  and  as  both  his 
loved  ones  smiled  and  beckoned  to  him, 
he  wanted,  oh,  how  he  wanted,  to  go  to 
them.  They  seemed  anxious  that  he 
join  them.  He  tried  to  go  to  them,  but 
he  could  not  seem  to  move,  and  as  he 
struggled  it  appeared  that  the  great 
gates  were  closing.  Mary  and  Alice 
seemed  conscious  of  this  also  and  beck- 
oned frantically,  but  he  was  powerless 
to  do  that  which  at  this  moment  he 
wanted  so  much  to  do.  The  movement 
of  the  gates  was  almost  imperceptible, 
but  the  aperture  was  definitely  nar- 
rowing. He  tried  desperately  but  fu- 
tilely  to  reach  them.  If  he  could  but 
join  them  I  They,  too,  were  eager  for 
reunion.  He  caught  a  final  glimpse 
and  saw  terror  registered  on  Mary's 
face  as  she,  too,  must  have  realized 
that  the  door  was  nearly  closed.  As 
the  lock  clicked,  it  was  like  thunder 
in  his  sensitive  ears,  and  he  felt  he 
would  give  anything,  everything,  even 
life  itself  to  see  her  again,  to  be  with 
her  again,  to  have  her  always  with 
him. 

The  alarm  clock  clanged.  He  was 
back  in  the  world.  Ahl  It  was  only  a 
dream  I  Or  was  it?  Had  he  missed  the 
mark?  Had  the  great  door  really 
slammed  shut?  Had  he  lost  his  loved 
companion  forever  because  he  had  failed 
to  meet  requirements? 

And,  we  sadly  recall  the  couplet, 
".  .  .  of  all  sad  words  of  tongue  or  pen, 
The  saddest  are  these,  'It  might  have 
been!'"  (Whittier,  Maud  Muller.) 

May  I  address  my  remarks  to  the 
numerous  happily  married  couples 
who  were  united   for  the  relatively 


R  W.  KIMBALL  25 

short  period  of  time  as  stated  by  the 
bishop,  "so  long  as  you  both  shall 
live,"  and  to  those  millions  of  well- 
adjusted  couples  in  the  world  who  were 
united  by  their  ministers,  priests,  rab- 
bis, or  other  prelates  for  the  period 
stated  "until  death  do  you  part." 

I  plead  with  you  peace-loving,  sin- 
cere, but  uninformed  couples  who  love 
your  companions  and  children,  but  who, 
in  your  vaunted  false  security,  permit 
the  days  to  pass,  and  the  months  and 
the  years  without  protecting  your  pre- 
cious marriages  against  sure  dissolu- 
tion, when  certain  efforts  and  activ- 
ities could  preserve  through  eternity 
your  warm  and  pleasant  family  re- 
lationships. 

A  few  of  you  know  the  requirements 
but  have  ignored  or  rejected  them.  The 
great  majority  of  you  have  never  known 
the  facts,  so  veiled  in  mystery  they 
have  been,  and  so  long  absent  from  the 
earth,  and  so  little  understood  even  by 
Bible  students. 

Man  is  Eternal: 

Marriage  and  Family  Can  Be 

These  are  absolute  facts: 

Life  is  eternal.  Death  does  not  ter- 
minate the  existence  of  man.  He  lives 
on  and  on.  Man  will  be  resurrected 
whether  good  or  evil.  His  spirit  will 
be  reunited  with  his  body  from  the 
grave,  and  if  he  has  perfected  his  life 
and  magnified  his  God-given  opportuni- 
ties, that  spirit  and  body  will  be 
brought  together  in  a  new,  fresh,  never- 
ending  immortality. 

The  greatest  joys  of  true  married 
life  can  be  continued.  The  most  beauti- 
ful relationships  of  parents  and  chil- 
dren can  be  made  permanent.  The  holy 
association  of  families  can  be  never- 
ending  if  husband  and  wife  have  been 
sealed  in  the  holy  bonds  of  eternal  mat- 
rimony. Their  joys  and  progress  will 
never  end,  but  this  will  never  fall  into 
place  of  its  own  accord. 

The  way  is  well-defined  and  clear. 
Eternal  marriage  was  known  to  Adam 
and  others  of  the  prophets,  but  the 
knowledge  was  lost  from  the  earth  for 
many  centuries.  God  has  restored  the 
truths  and  has  provided  the  way.  With 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel  came  also 
the  genuine  priesthood,  and  God  has 


26 

Friday,  October  2 

given  to  his  prophet  all  keys,  powers, 
and  authorities  held  by  Adam  and  Abra- 
ham and  Moses  and  the  early-day 
Apostles. 

God  has  restored  the  knowledge  of 
temples  and  their  purposes.  On  the 
earth  this  day  are  thirteen  holy  struc- 
tures built  to  this  special  work  of  the 
Lord,  and  each  is  the  "House  of  the 
Lord."  In  these  temples,  by  duly  con- 
stituted authority,  are  men  who  may 
seal  for  all  eternity,  husbands  and 
wives  and  their  children.  This  is  a 
fact  even  though  unknown  to  the 
masses,  and  it  is  available  as  folks 
acquaint  themselves  with  the  need. 
This  is  one  of  the  mysteries  spoken  of 
by  the  Redeemer,  who  taught  the  mul- 
titude in  parables,  saying: 

"...  I  will  open  my  mouth  in  para- 
bles; I  will  utter  things  which  have 
been  kept  secret  from  the  foundation 
of  the  world."  (Matt.  13:35.) 

These  priceless  truths  are  not  under- 
stood by  the  casual  reader  of  the  scrip- 
tures: 

"For  what  man  knoweth  the  things 
of  a  man,  save  the  spirit  of  man  which 
is  in  him?  even  so  the  things  of  God 
knoweth  no  man  but  the  Spirit  of  God." 
(1  Cor.  2:11.) 

"But  the  natural  man  receiveth  not 
the  things  of  the  Spirit  of  God:  for 
they  are  foolishness  unto  him:  neither 
can  he  know  them,  because  they  are 
spiritually    discerned."    (Ibid.,  2:14.) 

It  is  inconceivable  that  otherwise  in- 
telligent, astute,  and  highly  educated 
people  should  ignore  or  wilfully  disre- 
gard this  great  privilege.  The  doors 
can  be  unlocked.  The  gap  can  be 
bridged.  And  men  can  walk  safely,  se- 
curely to  never-ending  happiness,  mak- 
ing their  marriages  timeless  and  eternal. 

Explaining  the  use  of  parables,  the 
Savior  said: 

"Because  it  is  given  unto  you  to  know 
the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven, 
but  to  them  it  is  not  given."  (Matt. 
13:11.) 

"For  this  people's  heart  is  waxed 
gross,  and  their  ears  are  dull  of  hear- 
ing, and  their  eyes  they  have  closed; 
lest  at  any  time  they  should  see  with 
their  eyes,  and  hear  with  their  ears, 
and    should    understand    with  their 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

heart,  and  should  be  converted,  and  I 
should  heal  them."  (Ibid.,  13:15.) 

And  then  speaking  to  those  disciples 
who  were  near  him  and  who  under- 
stood, he  said: 

"But  blessed  are  your  eyes,  for  they 
see:  and  your  ears,  for  they  hear. 

"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  That 
many  prophets  and  righteous  men  have 
desired  to  see  those  things  which  ye 
see,  and  have  not  seen  them;  and 
to  hear  those  things  which  ye  hear, 
and  have  not  heard  them."  (Ibid.,  13: 
16-17.) 

The  Lord  knew  that  those  who  were 
sincere  in  heart  and  who  really  wished 
to  know  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom 
would  seek  and  search  prayerfully  until 
they  informed  themselves. 

It  will  be  remembered  how  the  Lord 
answered  the  hypocritical  Sadducees 
who,  trying  to  trap  him,  propounded 
this  difficult  problem: 

The  husband  died  leaving  no  poster- 
ity, and  the  wife  married  his  brother 
who  also  died  without  seed.  She  in  turn 
married  a  third  brother,  a  fourth,  a 
fifth,  a  sixth,  and  a  seventh,  all  in 
accordance  with  the  law  of  Moses,  and 
then  the  woman  of  the  seven  husbands 
died  also.  Now  the  frustrating  ques- 
tion is:  ,.* 

"In  the  resurrection  therefore,  when 
they  shall  rise,  whose  wife  shall 
she  be  of  them?  for  the  seven  had  her 
to  wife."  (Mark  12:23.)  The  Redeemer* 
answer  was  clear  and  concise  and  un- 
mistakable: 

"Do  ye  not  therefore  err,  because  ye 
know  not  the  scriptures,  neither  the 
power  of  God."    (Ibid.,  12:24.) 

And  now,  we  ask  you,  what  does 
this  mean?  The  Sadducees  were  dis- 
cussing matters  about  which  they  knew 
little  or  nothing.  Was  there  accusation 
in  his  voice?  Was  he  saying  to  the 
Sadducees,  "Open  your  blind  eyes  and 
see?  Open  your  stony  hearts  and  un- 
derstand?" 

My  friends,  do  you  understand  the 
implications  and  truth  of  this  state- 
ment of  the  Lord?  Though  somewhat 
veiled  in  scripture,  it  is  clear  and  un- 
derstandable when  supported  by  mod- 
ern revelation. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


27 


An  Ancient  Example 

Dr.  James  E.  Talmage  writes:  "The 
Lord's  meaning  was  clear,  that  in  the 
resurrected  state  there  can  be  no  question 
among  the  seven  brothers  as  to  whose 
wife  for  eternity  the  woman  shall  be, 
since  all  except  the  first  had  married  her 
for  the  duration  of  mortal  life  only.  .  .  . 
In  the  resurrection,  there  will  be  no 
marrying  nor  giving  in  marriage;  for  all 
questions  of  marital  status  must  be  set- 
tled before  that  time,  under  the  authority 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  which  holds  the 
power  to  seal  in  marriage  for  both  time 
and  eternity."  (]esus  the  Christ,  p.  548.) 

Undoubtedly,  the  first  husband  mar- 
ried the  woman  for  eternity  by  a  cere- 
mony which  was  not  limited  by  time. 
She  became  a  widow  at  his  demise 
until  she  should  also  die  and  join  her 
husband.  Now,  she  married  brother 
number  two,  "until  death  do  you  part," 
and  it  definitely  parted  them  even  be- 
fore posterity,  and  he  went  into  the 
spirit  world  through  the  veil  and  with 
no  wife,  for  their  contract  also  had 
been  terminated  by  death.  And  broth- 
ers number  three  and  four  and  five  and 
six  and  finally  number  seven  in  turn — 
all  married  her  in  temporary  marriage, 
in  which  ceremonies  were  the  limita- 
tions, "so  long  as  you  both  shall  live." 
Ancl  death  terminated  what  happi- 
ness they  had  had  and  their  promise  of 
future  bliss. 

How  sad!   How  gloomyl 

il  knew  of  one  young  couple  whose 
promising  marriage  was  ended  by  a 
car  crash  one  hour  after  the  ceremony 
which  included  those  perilous  words, 
"till  death  do  you  part." 

Civil  marriage  is  an  earthly  contract, 
completed  in  the  death  of  either  party. 
Eternal  celestial  marriage  is  a  sacred 
covenant  between  man  and  woman,  con- 
secrated in  the  holy  temple  by  servants 
of  God  who  hold  authoritative  keys. 
It  bridges  death;  it  includes  both  time 
and  eternity. 

Paul's  Testimony 

The  Apostle  Paul  told  the  Corin- 
thians: 

"If  in  this  life  only  we  have  hope  in 
Christ,  we  are  of  all  men  most  miser- 
able." (1  Cor.  15:19.) 

And  we  could  paraphrase  it  to  say: 


"If  in  this  life  only  our  marriages 
are  firm,  our  marital  bliss  real,  and 
our  family  life  happy,  we  are  of  all 
men  most  miserable." 

Paul  continues,  "There  are  also  ce- 
lestial bodies,  and  bodies  terrestrial: 
but  the  glory  of  the  celestial  is  one, 
and  the  glory  of  the  terrestrial  is 
another. 

"There  is  one  glory  of  the  sun,  and 
another  glory  of  the  moon,  and  another 
glory  of  the  stars:  for  one  star  dif- 
fereth  from  another  star  in  glory. 

"So  also  is  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  15:40-42.) 

Paul  understood,  as  undoubtedly 
did  many  of  the  Saints,  but  millions  of 
Christians  today  do  not  understand 
these  vital  truths  which  have  been 
veiled  in  parabolic  language.  Heaven 
is  not  a  single  place  nor  one  single 
condition.  It  is  as  diverse  as  men's 
behavior  patterns  are  different,  for 
men  will  be  judged  "according  to  their 
deeds  done  in  the  flesh." 

Modern  Revelation 

In  our  modern  revelation,  the  Lord 
said:  "Therefore,  prepare  thy  heart 
to  receive  and  obey  the  instructions 
which  I  am  about  to  give  unto  you;  for 
all  those  who  have  this  law  revealed 
unto  them  must  obey  the  same. 

"For  behold,  I  reveal  unto  you  a  new 
and  an  everlasting  covenant  .  .  .  ." 
(D&C  132:3-4.) 

Though  relatively  few  people  in  this 
world  understand  it,  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant  is  the  marriage  ordi- 
nance in  the  holy  temple  by  the  prop- 
erly constituted  leaders  who  hold  the 
genuine,  authoritative  keys.  This 
glorious  blessing  is  available  to  men 
and  women  on  this  earth.  The  deep 
underlying  purpose  is  clarified  by  the 
Redeemer  himself: 

"And  as  pertaining  to  the  new  and 
everlasting  covenant,  it  was  instituted 
for  the  fulness  of  my  glory;  and  he 
that  receiveth  a  fulness  thereof  must 
and  shall  abide  the  law,  or  he  shall 
be  damned,  saith  the  Lord  God." 
(Ibid.,  132:6.) 

Paul  spoke  of  telestial,  terrestrial, 
and  celestial  areas,  and  people  are  as- 
signed in  accordance  with  their  right- 
eousness  and  their  compliance  with 


28 

Friday,  October  2 

eternal  laws.  Even  this  celestial  king- 
dom has  three  heavens  or  degrees.  We 
quote  our  Lord  further: 

"And  in  order  to  obtain  the  highest, 
a  man  must  enter  into  this  order  of 
the  priesthood  [meaning  the  new  and 
everlasting  covenant  of  marriage]; 

"And  if  he  does  not,  he  cannot  ob- 
tain it. 

"He  may  enter  into  the  other,  but 
that  is  the  end  of  his  kingdom;  he 
cannot  have  an  increase."  (Ibid.,  131: 
2-4.) 

The  Lord  then  further  clarifies  the 
eternal  marriage: 

"All  covenants,  contracts,  bonds,  ob- 
ligations, oaths,  vows,  performances, 
connections,  associations,  or  expecta- 
tions, that  are  not  made  and  entered 
into  and  sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of 
promise,  of  him  who  is  anointed,  both 
as  well  for  time  and  for  all  eternity, 
...  are  of  no  efficacy,  virtue,  or  force 
in  and  after  the  resurrection  from  the 
dead;  for  all  contracts  that  are  not 
made  unto  this  end  have  an  end  when 
men  are  dead."    (Ibid.,  132:7.) 

The  marriages  then  which  are  made 
only  "so  long  as  you  both  shall  live"  or 
"until  death  do  you  part"  are  sadly 
terminated  when  the  last  mortal  breath 
is  gasped. 

The  Lord  is  merciful,  but  mercy  can- 
not rob  justice.  His  mercy  extended  to 
us  when  he  died  for  us.  His  justice 
prevails  when  he  judges  us  and  gives 
us  the  blessings  which  we  have  duly 
earned. 

".  .  .  no  one  can  reject  this  covenant 
and  be  permitted  to  enter  into  my 
glory,"  says  the  Lord. 

"For  all  who  will  have  a  blessing 
at  my  hands  shall  abide  the  law  which 
was  appointed  for  that  blessing,  and 
the  conditions  thereof,  as  were  insti- 
tuted from  before  the  foundation  of  the 
world."  (Ibid.,  132:4-5.) 

Civil  Authority — Divine  Authority 

A  civil  marriage  may  be  performed 
by  any  of  the  numerous  people  approved 
by  laws  of  the  respective  countries,  but 
the  eternal  marriage  must  be  solem- 
nized by  one  of  the  few  properly  auth- 
orized. Christ  says: 

"Will  I  accept  of  an  offering,  saith 
the  Lord,  that  is  not  made  in  my  name? 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

"Or  will  I  receive  at  your  hands 
that  which  I  have  not  appointed?" 
(Ibid.,  132:9-10.) 

It  is  the  Redeemer  who  postulates: 

"Therefore,  if  a  man  marry  him  a 
wife  in  the  world,  and  he  marry  her 
not  by  me  nor  by  my  word,  and  he 
covenant  with  her  so  long  as  he  is  in 
the  world  and  she  with  him,  their  cove- 
nant and  marriage  are  not  of  force 
when  they  are  dead,  and  when  they  are 
out  of  the  world;  therefore,  they  are  not 
bound  by  any  law  when  they  are  out  of 
the  world."  (Ibid.,  132:15.) 

"I  am  the  Lord  thy  God;  and  I  give 
unto  you  this  commandment — that  no 
man  shall  come  unto  the  Father  but  by 
me  or  by  my  word,  which  is  my  law, 
saith  the  Lord."   (Ibid.,  132:12.) 

He  then  reiterates  that:  "... 
everything  that  is  in  the  world,  whether 
it  be  ordained  of  men,  by  thrones,  or 
principalities,  or  powers,  or  things  of 
name,  whatsoever  they  may  be,  that 
are  not  by  me  or  by  my  word,  saith  the 
Lord,  shall  be  thrown  down,  and  shall 
not  remain  after  men  are  dead,  neither 
in  nor  after  the  resurrection,  saith  the 
Lord  your  God."    (Ibid.,  132:13.) 

How  final!  How  frightening  1  Since 
we  know  well  that  mortal  death  does 
not  terminate  our  existence,  since  we 
know  that  we  live  on  and  on,  how  dev- 
astating to  realize  that  marriage  and 
family  life,  so  sweet  and  happy  in  so 
many  homes,  will  end  with  death  be- 
cause we  fail  to  follow  God's  instruc- 
tions or  because  we  reject  his  word 
when  we  understand  it. 

Filfillment  the  Blessing  for  Obedience 

It  is  clear  in  the  Lord's  announce- 
ment that  righteous  men  and  women 
will  receive  the  due  rewards  of  their 
deeds.  They  will  not  be  damned  in  the 
commonly  accepted  terminology  but  will 
suffer  many  limitations  and  depriva- 
tions and  fail  to  reach  the  highest  king- 
dom, if  they  do  not  comply.  They  be- 
come ministering  servants  to  those  who 
complied  with  all  laws  and  lived  all 
commandments. 

He  then  continues  concerning  these 
excellent  people  who  lived  worthily  but 
failed  to  make  their  contracts  binding: 

"For  these  angels  did  not  abide  my 
law;  therefore,  they  cannot  be  enlarged, 


ELDER  SPENC1 

but  remain  separately  and  singly, 
without  exaltation,  in  their  saved  con- 
dition, to  all  eternity;  and  from  hence- 
forth are  not  gods,  but  are  angels  of 
God  forever  and  ever."  (Ibid.,  132:17.) 

How  conclusive!  How  boundedl  How 
limitingl  And  we  come  to  realize  again 
as  it  bears  heavily  upon  us  that  this 
time,  this  life,  this  mortality  is  the  time 
to  prepare  to  meet  God.  How  lonely 
and  barren  will  be  the  so-called  single 
blessedness  throughout  eternity!  How 
sad  to  be  separate  and  single  and  apart 
through  countless  ages  when  one  could, 
by  meeting  requirements,  have  happy 
marriage  for  eternity  in  the  temple  by 
proper  authority  and  continue  on  in  ever- 
increasing  joy  and  happiness,  growth 
and  development  toward  Godhood. 

Listen  to  the  Lord  again: 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  ex- 
cept ye  abide  my  law  ye  cannot  attain 
to  this  glory. 

"For  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow 
the  way  that  leadeth  unto  the  exalta- 
tion and  continuation  of  the  lives,  and 
few  there  be  that  find  it,  because  ye 
receive  me  not  in  the  world  neither  do 
ye  know  me. 

"But  if  ye  receive  me  in  the  world, 
then  shall  ye  know  me,  and  shall  re- 
ceive your  exaltation;  that  where  I  am 
ye  shall  be  also. 

"This  is  eternal  lives — to  know  the 
only  wise  and  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  he  hath  sent.  I  am  he. 
Receive  ye,  therefore,  my  law. 

"Broad  is  the  gate,  and  wide  the 
way  that  leadeth  to  the  deaths;  and 
many  there  are  that  go  in  thereat,  be- 
cause they  receive  me  not,  neither 
do  they  abide  in  my  law."  (Ibid.,  132: 
21-25.) 

If  a  man  receives  the  Lord,  he  be- 
lieves in  him,  lives  his  commandments, 
and  performs  the  ordinances  which  he 
has  required. 

And  now,  we  return  to  John  and 
Mary  and  all  the  Johns  and  all  the 
Marys  who  live  together  in  peace  and 
joy,  who  love  each  other,  who  appreci- 
ate spouses  and  love  their  children. 

Eternities  are  Jeopardized 
by  Non-Compliance 

Brothers  and  sisters  and  friends,  are 


I  W.  KIMBALL  29 

you  willing  to  jeopardize  your  eterni- 
ties, your  great  continuing  happiness, 
your  privilege  to  see  God  and  dwell 
in  his  presence?  For  the  want  of  in- 
vestigation and  study  and  contempla- 
tion; because  of  prejudice,  misunder- 
standing, or  lack  of  knowledge,  are  you 
willing  to  forego  these  great  blessings 
and  privileges?  Are  you  willing  to 
make  yourself  a  widow  for  eternity  or 
a  widower  for  endless  ages — a  single, 
separate  individual  to  live  alone  and 
serve  others?  Are  you  willing  to  give 
up  your  children  when  they  die  or  when 
you  expire,  and  make  them  orphans? 
Are  you  willing  to  go  through  eter- 
nity alone  and  solitary  when  all  of  the 
greatest  joys  you  have  ever  experi- 
enced in  life  could  be  "added  upon"  and 
accentuated,  multiplied,  and  eternal- 
ized? Are  you  willing,  with  the  Sad- 
ducees,  to  ignore  and  reject  these  great 
truths?  I  sincerely  pray  you  stop  today 
and  weigh  and  measure  and  then 
prayerfully  proceed  to  make  your  happy 
marriage  an  eternal  one.  Our  friends, 
please  do  not  ignore  this  call.  I  beg  of 
you,  open  your  eyes  and  see;  unstop 
your  ears  and  hear. 

An  eternal  marriage  plus  a  worthy 
continuing  consecrated  life  will  bring 
limitless  happiness  and  exaltation. 

May  I  conclude  with  the  words  of 
the  Lord  of  Hosts: 

"I  counsel  thee  to  buy  of  me  gold 
tried  in  the  fire,  that  thou  mayest  be 
rich;  and  white  raiment,  that  thou 
mayest  be  clothed,  and  that  the  shame 
of  thy  nakedness  do  not  appear;  and 
anoint  thine  eyes  with  eyesalve,  that 
thou  mayest  see."  (Rev.  3:18.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken 
to  us 

Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First 
council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the 
South  American  Mission  will  now  ad- 
dress us. 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  2 

ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  the  beauti- 
ful singing  of  this  lovely  chorus  both  this 
morning  and  this  afternoon  has  called 
to  mind  a  statement  about  music  which 
the  Lord  made  in  section  25  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  He  said:  "For 
my  soul  delighteth  in  the  song  of  the 
heart;  yea,  the  song  of  the  righteous  is 
a  prayer  unto  me,  and  it  shall  be  an- 
swered with  a  blessing  upon  their 
heads."  (D&C  25:12.)  I  pray  that  we 
all  might  be  the  "righteous"  and  re- 
ceive the  promised  blessing  of  the  Lord. 

For  the  past  three  years  the  fabric 
of  our  lives  has  been  interwoven  with 
the  life  and  culture  of  the  peoples  of 
South  America.  These  are  great  coun- 
tries with  tremendous  potential  for 
bringing  the  abundant  life  to  their  peo- 
ple. The  people  are  indeed  a  people  of 
promise  and  destiny,  and  "their  day"  is 
near  at  hand. 

We  return  at  this  conference  time 
with  a  firmer  conviction  that  God  lives 
and  rules  in  the  affairs  of  men  and 
nations  and  that  he  has  not  forsaken  the 
promise  he  has  made  concerning  Zion 
and  its  people  and  its  protection. 

Changes  in  South  American  Peoples 

During  our  sojourn  in  South  America 
we  have  witnessed  some  significant 
changes  among  both  men  and  nations. 
But  of  all  of  the  changes  that  occur  in 
the  lives  of  the  people  whom  the  gospel 
touches,  perhaps  the  greatest  change  oc- 
curs in  the  life  and  experience  of  the 
family — the  basic  unit  in  the  Church 
and  society. 

A  recent  convert  expressed  it  this  way: 
"Prior  to  the  visit  of  the  missionaries  to 
my  home,  I  lived  what  I  considered  to 
be  the  normal  role  of  a  husband.  I  held 
a  job  and  provided  for  my  wife  and 
children.  When  I  came  home  from  work, 
I  considered  myself  free  from  further 
responsibility  to  them.  If  I  wanted  to 
stay  home,  I  did.  If  I  did  not  want  to 
stay  home,  I  did  not.  Usually  it  was  the 
latter.  Much  of  my  time  was  spent  out- 
side of  the  home.  I  considered  it  my 
wife's  responsibility  to  rear  the  children. 
She  was  to  see  to  it  that  they  were  fed 
and  clothed  and  cared  for.  Occasionally 


First  Day 


she  would  take  them  to  her  church,  but 
I  felt  that  they  should  be  completely  free 
to  make  up  their  own  minds  about  re- 
ligion, as  I  had  been.  While  I  did  not 
openly  oppose  their  religious  activity,  I 
gave  them  no  encouragement  whatso- 
ever. 

"My  wife  and  I  must  have  loved  each 
other,  but  I  confess,  I  gave  little  evidence 
of  it.  I  really  considered  that  ours  were 
two  separate  worlds;  I  had  mine  and  she 
and  the  children  had  theirs.  I  thought 
that  when  the  boys  were  older,  they 
could  join  me  in  my  activities.  But  until 
then  they  belonged  in  their  mother's 
world.  It  was  her  duty  to  administer 
what  discipline  was  necessary.  I  did  not 
meddle  in  her  affairs,  except  occasionally 
when  the  situation  needed  my  husbandly 
authority,  and  it  usually  did  not  take 
me  very  long  to  settle  that.  Well,"  he 
concluded,  "that  was  what  I  called  my 
'family  life.'  As  I  look  back  on  it  now, 
it  seems  as  though  I  were  almost  a 
stranger  in  my  own  house  and  a  part- 
time  husband  to  my  wife." 

After  such  an  admission,  I  pressed  him 
for  a  description  of  the  changes  that  had 
lately  occurred  in  his  life.  He  gladly 
explained  it  this  way:  "While  I  was 
being  taught  the  restored  gospel,  I  did 
not  think  that  I  could  or  would  or  even 
wanted  to  change  my  way  of  life.  Only 
after  I  began  to  study  and  pray  did  I 
realize  that  a  change  would  shortly  be 
inevitable. 

The  Turning  Point — My  Testimony 

"At  length  I  received  a  testimony  that 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  had  indeed 
been  restored  and  that  there  is  a  living 
prophet  on  the  earth  today.  This  was  the 
turning  point.  It  was  after  my  baptism 
that  the  changes  really  began  to  occur  in 
my,  or  more  properly  said,  in  our  lives. 
For  somehow,  now,  the  oneness  that  we 
were  supposed  to  have  in  our  life  and 
marriage  actually  became  a  reality.  I 
think  the  reason  was  that  I  began  to 
understand  the  sacredness  of  marriage 
and  the  need  of  honoring  my  marriage 
vows.  In  church  I  was  taught  the  im- 
portance and  joy  of  being  faithful  to  my 
wife  and  honorable  and  worthy  before 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 


31 


my  children.  You  know,"  he  said,  "no 
one  ever  told  me  before  that  I  would 
find  joy  in  everyday  living  merely  by 
keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 
I  had  been  taught  that  our  lot  in  this 
life  was  sorrow  and  pain  and  poverty, 
that  only  in  the  next  life  would  we  find 
the  joy  we  longed  for  here.  ' 

"As  we  continued  to  attend  the  meet- 
ings of  the  Church,  we  learned  the 
practical  application  of  active  church 
membership  and  how  the  principles  of 
theology  actually  find  their  expression 
in  everyday  life.  And  now,"  he  added, 
"we  have  plenty  of  opportunity  to  prac- 
tice all  of  the  virtues  we  were  being 
taught  by  accepting  calls  of  service  in 
the  Church. 

I  Taught  My  Sons 

"For  the  first  time,"  he  continued, 
"I  realized  what  my  sons  could  become. 
I  realized  that  they  could  be  reared  in 
the  kind  of  atmosphere  that  produced 
the  missionaries  who  brought  the  gos- 
pel to  my  home.  So  I  set  about  to  teach 
my  sons  moral  principles.  I  taught  them 
that  it  was  wrong  to  lie,  to  swear,  to 
steal,  to  break  any  of  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments. I  taught  them  love  of 
neighbor,  because  now  I  understood  its 
application.  I  taught  them  reverence  for 
sacred  places  and  things.  I  now  en- 
couraged them  in  their  church  activity. 
I  taught  them  that  religion  was  not  just 
for  women,  that  character  and  faith  in 
God  were  the  hallmarks  of  a  real  man. 
We  began  to  have  fun  together.  I  be- 
came a  part  of  their  world.  I'm  even 
beginning  to  speak  and  understand  their 
language. 

"I  Know  the  Way  to  Eternal  Life" 

"I  cannot  begin  to  tell  you,"  he  said, 
"all  of  the  new  things  I  have  learned 
about  life  since  becoming  a  member  of 
this  Church.  I  now  know  the  purpose 
of  life.  I  know  the  way  to  eternal  life — 
the  teachings  of  the  Church,  even  in  a 
short  time,  have  taught  me  that. 

"But  it  has  been  in  our  home  that  the 
major  changes  occurred.  I  go  to  work,  as 
usual,  but  now  I  always  come  home.  I 
am  not  only  an  active  participant  in  our 
family  life,  but  I  also  preside  by  right  of 
holding  the  priesthood.  And  I  think 
I  am  learning  something  about  exercis- 


ing authority  in  love  and  patience  and 
understanding. 

"And  you  won't  believe  this,"  he  con- 
tinued, "but  even  though  I  am  busier 
than  I  ever  was  (I  am  presently  a  coun- 
selor in  the  branch  presidency),  I  seem 
to  have  more  time  than  ever  before. 
Why,  I  even  find  myself  occasionally 
helping  my  wife  in  the  kitchen,  and 
that's  something  I  thought  I'd  never  do. 
Knowing  that  the  family  unit  is  to  be 
eternal  has  given  me  a  completely  new 
view  of  the  importance  and  purpose  of 
family  life. 

"Well,"  he  concluded,  and  his  eyes 
were  moist  with  tears  of  gratitude,  "per- 
haps you  can  understand  now  why  I 
am  willing  to  serve  the  Lord,  work  in 
the  Church,  help  my  fellow  man,  and 
share  the  message  that  has  brought  such 
happiness  to  my  life." 

One  of  the  Miracles  of  Mormonism 

We  have  seen  this  change  occur  not 
in  just  this  one  family  but  in  literally 
hundreds  of  families.  In  fact,  the  mis- 
sionaries have  told  me  that  it  is  a 
common  experience  for  them  to  notice 
that  the  homes  of  the  people  they  visit 
get  cleaner  each  time  they  call  to  teach 
them  more  about  the  gospel,  and  yet, 
they  have  said  nothing  about  cleaning 
the  house.  This  is  one  of  the  miracles  of 
Mormonism.  This  and  similar  mani- 
festations occur  continually. 

In  Job  we  read:  ".  .  .  there  is  a  spirit 
in  man;  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty giveth  them  understanding." 
(Job  32:8.)  What  the  light  of  the  sun 
is  to  the  flower,  causing  it  to  unfold  from 
within  and  turn  to  the  source  of  light, 
so  the  gospel  light  is  to  the  soul  of  man. 
It  touches  the  inner  life  of  man  and 
without  compulsion  turns  him  to  the 
source  of  light  and  truth. 

And  yet,  one  cannot  find  the  cause  for 
this  by  looking  at  the  unfolding  of  the 
flower;  rather  one  must  look  to  the 
source  of  light  which  works  the  miracle 
of  growth  and  change.  Indeed,  it  is  the 
refulgence  of  the  First  Vision,  the  belief 
and  acceptance  of  which  touches  the 
spirit  of  man,  and  he  responds  to  the 
inspiration  of  the  Almighty. 

Family  life  changes,  not  because  of 
any  outward  conditions,  but  because  of 
inner  convictions.  And  those  who  look 


32 

Friday,  October  2 

for  the  reason  for  this  change  in  outward 
evidences  look  in  vain.  It  is  not  to  be 
found  there.  It  lies  not  in  the  new 
buildings  being  erected.  It  is  not  in  the 
schools  we  have  built  throughout  the 
world.  It  is  not  found  in  the  church 
organization,  perfect  as  it  is.  It  is  not  in 
the  youth  program,  the  Primary,  or  Re- 
lief Society  where  social  and  cultural 
programs  without  peer  are  carried  on. 
Nor  does  it  lie  in  the  fraternity  of  the 
priesthood  quorums.  Whoever  looks  for 
the  key  to  change  in  the  exterior  mani- 
festations looks  in  vain,  as  did  Elijah. 
He  heard  the  voice  of  the  Lord  not  in 
the  wind,  nor  in  the  earthquake,  nor  in 
the  fire,  but  in  the  still,  small  voice. 

The  power  that  changes  a  man's  heart 
is  inherent  in  the  testimony  that  distils 
upon  the  souls  of  men,  witnessing  to 
them  that  the  First  Vision  of  the  boy 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  a  di- 
vine reality.  I  quote  a  part  of  the  Proph- 
et's marvelous  vision.  He  said: 

"...  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly 
over  my  head,  above  the  brightness  of 
the  sun,  which  descended  gradually 
until  it  fell  upon  me. 

"It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found 
myself  delivered  from  the  enemy  which 
held  me  bound.  When  the  light  rested 
upon  me  I  saw  two  Personages,  whose 
brightness  and  glory  defy  all  description, 
standing  above  me  in  the  air.  One  of 
them  spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by 
name  and  said,  pointing  to  the  other — 
This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Himl" 
(Joseph  Smith  2:16-17.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Key  to  Improvement  of  Family 

Herein  lies  the  key  to  improvement  of 
the  family.  Herein  lies  the  reason  for 
expectation  of  success.  Herein  lies  the 
contribution  of  this  Church  to  the  world 
— the  ideal  family. 

I  bear  humble  witness  that  God  the 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  actually 
appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet. 
I  bear  testimony  that  they  live,  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  actual  Son  of  God, 
that  he  is  the  head  of  this  Church,  that 
he  directs  it  through  his  chosen  prophet 
and  mouthpiece,  President  David  O. 
McKay.  I  bear  this  witness  humbly  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the 
South  American  Mission  has  just  spoken 
to  us. 

Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  will 
now  lead  the  congregation  and  Chorus 
in  the  song,  "O  say,  What  Is  Truth?" 
after  which  Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  address  us. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next  speaker, 
and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Bruce 
R.  McConkie  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy. 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Near  the  beginning  of  the  ministry  of 
Jesus  Christ,  he  came  one  day  to  the  city 
of  Nazareth  where  he  had  grown  up  as 
a  lad.  As  was  his  custom  on  the  Sabbath 
day  he  went  to  the  local  synagogue  to 
worship.  As  he  stood  up  to  read,  he  was 
given  the  book  of  Isaiah  from  which  he 
read  as  follows: 

"The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  God  is  upon 
me;  because  the  Lord  hath  anointed 
me  to  preach  good  tidings  unto  the 
meek;  he  hath  sent  me  to  bind  up  the 
broken-hearted,  to  proclaim  liberty  to 
the  captives,  and  the  opening  of  the 
prison  to  them  that  are  bound; 


"To  proclaim  the  acceptable  year  of 
the  Lord.  .  .  ."  (Isa.  61:1-2.) 

Then  he  closed  the  book  and  sat  down 
to  speak.  As  all  eyes  were  fastened  upon 
him  to  see  what  interpretation  he  would 
give  to  these  words,  he  said: 

"This  day  is  this  scripture  fulfilled  in 
your  ears. 

"And  all  bare  him  witness,  and  won- 
dered at  the  gracious  words  which  pro- 
ceeded out  of  his  mouth."  (Luke  4:21- 
22.) 

Deliverance  to  the  Captives 

I  am  interested  in  the  words  of  Isaiah, 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


33 


or  as  Jesus  gave  them  as  quoted  by  Luke: 

".  .  .  he  hath  sent  me  ...  to  preach 
deliverance  to  the  captives,  and  ...  to 
set  at  liberty  them  that  are  bruised." 
(Ibid.,  4:18.) 

Bible  interpreters  have  said  that  the 
original  words  from  Isaiah  have  refer- 
ence to  the  release  of  the  Jewish  captives 
from  Babylon,  but  that  Jesus  applied 
them  to  the  release  of  sinners  from  the 
guilt  and  bondage  of  sin,  through  his 
ministry.  But  was  this  Jesus'  intent,  and 
what  sinners  were  held  prisoners  through 
the  guilt  and  bondage  of  their  sins? 

I  claim  that  Isaiah  and  Jesus  were 
speaking  of  specific  prisoners  as  given  in 
the  following  quotations  from  Isaiah: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  that  day, 
that  the  Lord  shall  punish  the  host  of 
the  high  ones  that  are  on  high,  and  the 
kings  of  the  earth  upon  the  earth. 

"And  they  shall  be  gathered  together, 
as  prisoners  are  gathered  in  the  pit,  and 
shall  be  shut  up  in  the  prison,  and  after 
many  days  shall  they  be  visited."  (Isa. 
24:21-22.) 

"I  the  Lord  have  called  thee  in  right- 
eousness, and  will  hold  thine  hand,  and 
will  keep  thee,  and  give  thee  for  a  cove- 
nant of  the  people,  for  a  light  of  the 
Gentiles; 

"To  open  the  blind  eyes,  to  bring  out 
the  prisoners  from  the  prison,  and  them 
that  sit  in  darkness  out  of  the  prison 
house."  (Ibid.,  42:6-7.) 

Jesus,  the  Deliverer 

There  is  no  question  but  that  Jesus 
was  to  be  the  Deliverer  and  that  they 
that  sit  in  this  prison  were  to  be  in  the 
bonds  of  darkness,  which  must  refer 
to  spiritual  darkness  rather  than  to 
political  prisoners  here  upon  the  earth. 
The  work  of  Jesus  definitely  was  not 
confined  solely  to  those  of  his  own 
earthly  generation  who  heard  his 
voice  in  person  as  on  this  occasion 
when  he  spoke  in  the  synagogue  at 
Nazareth.  His  work  was  a  greater 
work,  a  universal  work,  and  applied  not 
only  to  the  whole  wide  world  of  those 
then  living,  but  also  to  all  who  ever 
lived  or  ever  would  live  upon  this  earth. 

True  Scope  of  His  Ministry 

One  of  the  mistakes  of  Christendom 
today  is  thinking  that  Christ's  ministry 


began  at  the  Meridian  of  Time  follow- 
ing his  birth  upon  the  earth.  At  the 
Meridian  of  Time  he  began  his  earth 
ministry  as  he  was  born  among  men  as 
the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God  in  the 
flesh.  It  is  not  generally  understood  that 
Jesus  was  the  Firstborn  of  the  spirit 
children  of  God  and  that  as  Jehovah, 
the  Creator,  he  was  the  God  of  this  earth 
before  he  became  manifest  in  the  flesh 
as  Jesus  Christ.  He  is  the  Eternal  God 
of  this  earth  who  gave  his  laws  and 
commandments  to  the  prophets  of  old 
before  he  came  to  earth  as  the  Son 
of  Man. 

Eternal  Principles  of  the  Gospel 

The  principles  of  the  gospel  which 
Jesus  taught  were  eternal.  They  were 
given  and  taught  to  the  prophets  and 
seers  of  old.  They  in  turn  preached  and 
taught  them  to  the  people  of  their  day. 
Did  they  not  understand  that  the  Re- 
deemer would  come?  Wasn't  Isaiah,  for 
example,  a  witness  of  the  coming  Lord 
as  he  proclaimed: 

"Who  hath  believed  our  report?  and 
to  whom  is  the  arm  of  the  Lord  revealed? 

"For  he  shall  grow  up  before  him  as 
a  tender  plant,  and  as  a  root  out  of  a  dry 
ground:  he  hath  no  form  nor  comeliness; 
and  when  we  shall  see  him,  there  is  no 
beauty  that  we  should  desire  him. 

"He  is  despised  and  rejected  of  men; 
a  man  of  sorrows,  and  acquainted  with 
grief;  and  we  hid  as  it  were  our  faces 
from  him;  he  was  despised,  and  we  es- 
teemed him  not. 

"Surely  he  hath  borne  our  griefs,  and 
carried  our  sorrows:  yet  we  did  esteem 
him  stricken,  smitten  of  God,  and  af- 
flicted. 

"But  he  was  wounded  for  our  trans- 
gressions, he  was  bruised  for  our  iniqui- 
ties: the  chastisement  of  our  peace  was 
upon  him;  and  with  his  stripes  we  are 
healed. 

"All  we  like  sheep  have  gone  astray; 
we  have  turned  every  one  to  his  own 
way;  and  the  Lord  hath  laid  on  him  the 
iniquity  of  us  all. 

"He  was  oppressed,  and  he  was  af- 
flicted, yet  he  opened  not  his  mouth:  he 
is  brought  as  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter, 
and  as  a  sheep  before  her  shearers  is 
dumb,  so  he  openeth  not  his  mouth." 
(Ibid.,  53:1-7.) 

Dare  we  say  that  the  prophets  did  not 


34 

friday.  October  2 

know  all  about  Jesus  and  his  coining? 
Did  they  not  testify,  often  with  their 
lives,  of  the  divinity  of  God  and  urge 
their  hearers  to  turn  to  him  and  live? 

Priesthood,  Key  to  Exaltation 

Just  as  authority  in  the  priesthood  had 
been  given  to  Adam  and  his  sons,  the 
patriarchs,  so  also  were  they  given  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  participated  in  the  blessings  and 
ordinances  and  covenants  that  pertain 
to  exaltation  in  the  acceptance  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  Lord  and  King.  Only  when 
the  people  refused  to  accept  this  higher 
priesthood  and  higher  law  at  the  time  of 
Moses  were  they  given  the  lesser  priest- 
hood and  the  lesser  law  which  was  to  be 
a  taskmaster  to  lead  them  eventually  to 
accept  Jesus  Christ  and  the  higher  law 
which  he  had  given  to  the  prophets  of 
old  and  which  he  gave  again  in  his 
earthly  ministry. 

Eternal  and  Universal  Nature 
of  the  Ministry  of  Jesus  Christ 

Failure  to  understand  the  eternal  and 
universal  nature  of  the  ministry  of  Jesus 
Christ  has  caused  considerable  conster- 
nation among  students  of  divinity.  With 
the  study  of  the  mystery  religions  came 
the  knowledge  that  a  virgin  birth  of 
a  Redeemer  and  a  death  and  resurrection 
of  the  same  was  claimed  by  several  such 
religions  hundreds  of  years  before  the 
birth  of  Jesus  Christ.  Baptism  by  im- 
mersion was  a  fairly  common  ritual  long 
before  the  coming  of  Jesus.  The  discovery 
of  the  manuscript  rolls  from  the  caves 
at  Qumran  near  Jerusalem  brought  to 
light  teachings  and  practices  later  used 
in  Christianity  two  hundred  years  before 
the  birth  of  Jesus  Christ.  This  has  led 
certain  students  of  Christian  religion  to 
deny  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ.  They 
have  regarded  him  only  as  a  great  and 
gifted  teacher  who  simply  adopted  and 
adapted  these  thoughts  and  practices  of 
the  Essenes  priests.  So  they  claim  he 
established  a  new  philosophy  of  the 
brotherhood  of  man  based  on  these  con- 
cepts and  in  defense  of  which  he  even 
gave  his  life  as  a  martyr. 

Such  denial  of  Jesus  Christ  as  a  divine 
being  is  the  result  of  not  understanding 
the  eternal  nature  of  the  gospel  Jesus 
taught.  If  one  understands  that  the  gos- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

pel  was  taught  and  practised  from  the 
very  beginning,  one  can  understand  how 
its  doctrines  and  practices  can  be  found 
in  apostate  forms  in  the  mystery  reli- 
gions of  Greece  and  Egypt  and  can  ac- 
count for  the  knowledge  of  Christian 
teachings  before  the  birth  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Gospel  Preached  in  Anticipation 
of  His  Coming 

Knowing  then  that  the  gospel  was 
preached  by  the  prophets  of  old  in 
anticipation  of  the  coming  of  the  Savior 
and  that  it  is  now  preached  in  confirma- 
tion of  his  atonement,  we  can  ask  a 
pertinent  question.  What  happened  to 
those  who  heard  the  gospel  and  rejected 
it,  or,  perhaps  better  said,  who  failed  to 
accept  it  while  on  the  earth?  What  hap- 
pened to  those  who  lived  on  the  earth 
when  through  apostasy  and  wickedness 
they  never  had  a  chance  to  hear  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  preached?  What 
happens  to  those  we  call  heathens  who 
never  heard  of  Jesus  Christ? 

At  the  death  of  these  people,  who 
never  made  a  covenant  to  become  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  Jesus  Christ,  their 
spirits  went  to  a  spirit  prison  where 
they  were  forced  to  wait  until  they  could 
be  released.  This  Peter  explained  when 
he  told  how  Jesus  went  to  minister 
among  those  who  were  dead,  for,  as  the 
scriptures  inform  us,  Peter  taught: 

"And  he  commanded  us  to  preach 
unto  the  people,  and  to  testify  that  it  is 
he  which  was  ordained  of  God  to  be  the 
Judge  of  quick  and  dead. 

"To  him  give  all  the  prophets  witness, 
that  through  his  name  whosoever  be- 
lieveth  in  him  shall  receive  remission  of 
sins."  (Acts  10:42-43.  Italics  added.) 

That  this  salvation  through  belief  in 
Christ  is  open  to  the  dead  as  well  as 
to  the  living  is  evident  as  Peter  taught: 

"For  Christ  also  hath  once  suffered 
for  sins,  the  just  for  the  unjust,  that  he 
might  bring  us  to  God,  being  put  to 
death  in  the  flesh,  but  quickened  by  the 
Spirit: 

"By  which  also  he  went  and  preached 
unto  the  spirits  in  prison; 

"Which  sometime  were  disobedient, 
when  once  the  longsuffering  of  God 
waited  in  the  days  of  Noah,  while  the 
ark  was  a  preparing,  wherein  few,  that 
is,  eight  souls  were  saved  by  water." 
(1  Pet.  3:18-20.) 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


35 


The  reason  for  this  Peter  explained 
as  follows: 

"For  for  this  cause  was  the  gospel 
preached  also  to  them  that  are  dead,  that 
they  might  be  judged  according  to  men 
in  the  flesh,  but  live  according  to  God 
in  the  spirit."  (Ibid.,  4:6.) 

Savior's  Redeeming  Power 
Universally  Available 

Thus,  the  redeeming  power  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  made  possible  to  every  person 
who  ever  lived  or  will  live  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth.  In  view  of  the  scrip- 
tural confirmation  of  this  doctrine  that 
Christ  did  visit  and  minister  among  the 
spirits  who  had  been  disobedient  and 
who  because  of  unpardoned  sin  were 
held  in  a  spirit  prison,  we  may  well 
ask,  what  was  the  scope  and  purpose 
of  our  Lord's  ministry  among  them?  His 
preaching  was  purposeful  and  positive, 
not  to  further  condemn,  but  to  bring 
relief  and  mercy.  To  them  came  the 
Redeemer  to  open  the  way  that  leads 
to  life.  He  came  not  to  intensify  their 
darkness  and  their  grief,  but  to  bring 
relief  from  despair  and  suffering. 

The  Atonement 

The  most  significant  sacrifice  of  all, 
the  greatest  work  ever  done  for  mankind 
and  the  turning  point  in  the  history  of 
man,  is  the  atonement  of  Christ,  which 
was  a  vicarious  offering  made  by  Jesus 
for  us  who  were  estranged  from  God.  He 
gave  his  life  voluntarily  as  a  foreor- 
dained sacrifice  that  we  might  live 
eternally.  This  God  accepted  as  a  pro- 
pitiation for  broken  law  and  it  is  the 
means  whereby  we  as  God's  children 
may  obtain  salvation. 

Through  the  ministrations  of  Jesus 
for  us,  we  may  pass  by  the  angels  and 
regain  the  presence  of  God  the  Eternal 
Father  but  only  as  we  obey  the  ordi- 
nances of  the  gospel.  Paul  taught: 

"For  to  this  end  Christ  both  died, 
and  rose,  and  revived,  that  he  might  be 
Lord  both  of  the  dead  and  living." 
(Rom.  14:9.) 

How  it  is  possible  to  save  the  dead 
already  departed  from  this  earth  is  ex- 
plained by  Paul  as  he  spoke  of  baptism 
for  the  dead: 

"Else  what  shallthey  do  which  are 


baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise  not 
at  all?  why  are  they  then  baptized  for 
the  dead?"  (1  Cor.  15:29.) 

The  Gospel  and  Ordinances 
for  the  World  of  Spirits 

It  is  evident  that  the  gospel  must  be 
preached  in  the  spirit  world  and  that 
provisions  for  vicarious  work  for  those 
who  are  dead  must  have  been  provided 
for.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  the  only  organiza- 
tion on  earth  which  confirms  by  actual 
practice  the  necessity  of  administering 
baptism  for  the  dead  and  which  claims 
divine  authority  therefor. 

Seek  After  and  Identify  Ancestors 

Thus,  the  responsibility  rests  upon 
every  one  of  us  to  seek  after  and  identify 
our  deceased  ancestors  who  had  no 
opportunity  of  hearing  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  After  we  have  identified 
them,  it  is  our  privilege  to  go  into  the 
temples  of  God  and  perform  vicariously 
these  ordinances  for  them  which  they 
cannot  perform  for  themselves.  By  these 
sacrifices  we  participate  in  small  part  in 
the  redeeming  power  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
share  with  him  the  joy  of  doing  some- 
thing for  others  to  prepare  the  way  for 
them  also  to  reach  the  presence  of  God 
the  Eternal  Father. 

So  important  is  this  work  that  Malaehi 
the  prophet  testified: 

"Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the 
Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah  the 
prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 

".  .  .  And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts 
of  the  children  the  promises  made  to  the 
fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children 
shall  turn  to  their  fathers.  If  it  were  not 
so,  the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly 
wasted  at  his  coming."  (Joseph  Smith 
2:38-39.  Italics  added.) 

I  pray  that  we  may  not  waste  our  in- 
heritance on  the  earth  by  neglecting  this 
privilege  of  participating  in  the  work  of 
redemption.  As  we  are  grateful  for  the 
redeeming  grase  of  Jesus  Christ  our 
Savior,  let  us  assist  him  by  showing 
grace  and  mercy  to  those  who  sit  in 
spiritual  darkness  waiting  for  us  to  turn 
the  key  in  the  lock  of  their  prison  door 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  2 

to  bring  them  out  into  the  light  of 
spiritual  day.  Whether  this  work  is 
opening  the  door  for  the  living  or  for  the 
dead,  let  us  bear  our  witness  by  the 
actions  we  perform  in  testifying  with 
our  lives  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus 
is  his  Son  who  rose  from  the  dead  and 
lives  today.  This  testimony  I  bear  to 
you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen 


First  Day 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 


He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve.  Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  will  now 
speak  to  us  and  he  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


We  invite  all  men  everywhere  to  come 
unto  Christ,  to  accept  him  as  the  Son 
of  God,  to  obey  the  laws  he  has  re- 
vealed, thereby  gaining  peace  in  this 
life  and  eternal  salvation  in  the  life  to 
come. 

We  Believe  in  Christ; 
His  Divine  Sonship 

We  believe  in  Christ.  We  testify  of 
his  divine  Sonship.  President  McKay, 
in  the  inspiring  message  which  opened 
the  conference,  testified  that  "Christ 
the  Son  of  Righteousness  came  with 
healing  in  his  wings  in  the  Meridian  of 
Time,"  that  "he  is  the  true  Light  of 
men's  lives,"  and  that  as  "the  Prince 
of  Peace"  he  "shall  reign  as  King  of 
kings  and  Lord  of  lords." 

We  believe  as  the  Book  of  Mormon 
says,  ".  .  .  that  there  shall  be  no  other 
name  given  nor  any  other  way  nor 
means  whereby  salvation  can  come  unto 
the  children  of  men,  only  in  and 
through  the  name  of  Christ,  the  Lord 
Omnipotent."   (Mosiah  3:17.) 

We  believe  again  in  the  language  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  ".  .  .  that  salva- 
tion was,  and  is,  and  is  to  come,  in  and 
through  the  atoning  blood  of  Christ,  the 
Lord  Omnipotent."  (Ibid.,  3:18.) 

We  believe  as  John  the  Baptist  said: 
"He  that  believeth  on  the  Son  hath 
everlasting  life:  and  he  that  believeth 
not  the  Son  shall  not  see  life;  but  the 
wrath  of  God  abideth  on  him."  (John 
3:36.) 

We  believe  in  the  language  of  Paul, 
"That  if  thou  shalt  confess  with  thy 
mouth  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  shalt  be- 
lieve in  thine  heart  that  God  hath  raised 
him  from  the  dead,  thou  shalt  be 
saved."   (Rom.  10:9.) 

Sure  Foundation  of  Christian  Faith 
Belief  in  Christ  is  basic  and  funda- 


mental to  the  Christian  faith.  He  is  the 
one  sure  foundation.  By  him  all  things 
are,  and  upon  him  all  things  rest.  As 
Paul  said:  ".  .  .  other  foundation  can 
no  man  lay  than  that  is  laid,  which  is 
Jesus  Christ."   (1  Cor.  3:11.) 

But  we  deplore  and  are  saddened  by 
the  lack  of  unity  among  professing 
Christians,  lack  of  unity  as  to  his  di- 
vine sonship,  his  atonement  and  mis- 
sion and  the  gospel  plan  which  bears 
his  name.  One  group  of  sincere  and 
devout  persons  believes  one  thing  and 
another  group  something  else. 

We  look  forward  with  hope,  how- 
ever, to  an  eventual  day  when  honest 
men  among  all  nations  shall  know 
who  Christ  is,  what  his  laws  are,  and 
what  they  must  do  to  be  saved  in  his 
kingdom. 

To  aid  these  sincere  seekers  after 
spiritual  certainty,  may  we  testify  to 
the  world  of  those  things  which  have 
been  revealed  to  us  concerning  this 
greatest  of  all  men — Jesus,  our  Lord 
and  Master.  May  we  begin  by  taking 
this  statement  of  Paul  about  confess- 
ing Christ,  believing  in  his  resur- 
rection, and  consequently  gaining  sal- 
vation. 

The  Testimony  of  Paul 

Here  is  a  man  who  says  he 
has  a  message  for  "all  that  be 
in  Rome."  He  announces:  I  am  "Paul, 
a  servant  of  Jesus  Christ,  called  to  be 
an  apostle."  I  bring  you  "the  gospel  of 
God,"  which  gospel  is  that  "Jesus 
Christ  our  Lord"  was  both  "the  seed 
of  David  according  to  the  flesh,"  and 
also  "the  Son  of  God."  (See  Rom.  1: 
1-7.) 

This  man  Paul,  who  speaks  for 
God,  then  says:  ".  .  .  my  heart's  desire 
and  prayer  to  God  for  Israel  is,  that 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


37 


they  might  be  saved."  (Ibid.,  10:1.) 
He  then  reveals  his  fears  that  they 
may  not  gain  salvation,  for  he  says: 
".  .  .  they  have  a  zeal  of  God,  but  not 
according  to  knowledge"  (ibid.,  10:2); 
that  is,  they  had  a  system  of  religion 
and  sought  in  their  way  to  worship 
God,  but  their  course  was  not  based  on 
a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

And  so,  to  chart  the  course  which 
they  and  all  men  must  follow  to  gain 
salvation,  Paul  gave  this  glorious  state- 
ment: ".  .  .  if  thou  shalt  confess  with 
thy  mouth  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  shalt 
believe  in  thine  heart  that  God  hath 
raised  him  from  the  dead,  thou  shalt 
be  saved."  (Ibid.,  10:9.) 

He  Is  the  Son  of  God 

Now,  if  we  are  to  believe  in  Christ, 
we  must  know  who  he  is  and  what  it 
means  to  believe  in  him.  True  worship 
presupposes  that  men  know  whom  they 
worship  and  know  how  to  worship. 

Is  he,  as  the  Mohammedans  say,  one 
of  the  prophets,  but  not  the  Son  of 
God? 

Is  he,  as  some  professors  of  religion 
assert,  a  great  moral  teacher,  but  not 
the  Savior  and  Redeemer? 

Is  he,  as  some  of  old  claimed,  the  car- 
penter's son,  but  not  the  promised  Mes- 
siah? 

Is  he,  as  some  creeds  recite,  an  in- 
comprehensible, incorporeal,  uncreated 
spirit  which  fills  immensity,  but  not  the 
literal  offspring  of  that  God  in  whose 
image  man  is  created? 

Or  is  he,  as  we  testify,  the  Son  of 
God,  the  Firstborn  in  pre-existence, 
the  Only  Begotten  in  the  flesh,  the 
Creator  and  promised  Messiah,  the  Re- 
deemer and  Savior  who  has  manifested 
himself  in  our  day,  and  who  will  soon 
return  in  glory  to  reign  on  earth  a 
thousand  years? 

How  shall  we  know  who  or  what 
Christ  actually  is? 

Paul  answers  this  to  the  Romans  by 
first  saying:  ".  .  .  whosoever  shall  call 
upon  the  name  of  the  Lord  shall  be 
saved"  (ibid.,  10:13)  and  by  then  ask- 
ing four  questions  which  grow  out  of 
this  plea  for  men  to  approach  their 
God: 

First:  "How  then  shall  they  call  on 
him  in  whom  they  have  not  believed?" 


(Ibid.,  10:14.)  Believe  in  God,  that  holy 
Being  in  whose  image  man  is  created. 

Second:  ".  .  .  how  shall  they  believe 
in  him  of  whom  they  have  not  heard?" 
(Idem.)  The  knowledge  of  God  must 
be  revealed,  the  gospel  taught. 

Third:  ".  .  .  how  shall  they  hear 
without  a  preacher?"  (Idem.)  Preach- 
ers, Apostles,  prophets,  teachers,  repre- 
sentatives of  the  Lord  must  do  the 
teaching. 

Fourth:  ".  .  .  how  shall  they  preach, 
except  they  be  sent?"  (Ibid.,  10:15.) 
Only  those  can  preach  and  teach  who 
are  actually  called  of  God  and  sent 
forth  by  him. 

In  other  words,  if  we  "call  upon  the 
name  of  the  Lord,"  if  we  confess  the 
Lord  Jesus  with  the  mouth,  if  we  be- 
lieve in  our  hearts  "that  God  hath 
raised  him  from  the  dead,"  it  is  be- 
cause we  first  believe  and  accept  the 
testimony  of  the  Apostle  or  prophet 
who  is  sent  of  God  to  give  us  the  knowl- 
edge of  salvation.  It  is  not  the  Lord's 
program  to  appear  personally  to  every 
man  and  tell  him  what  to  believe  and 
how  to  act  to  be  saved.  In  this,  our 
second  estate,  we  are  to  walk  by  faith, 
not  by  sight. 

But  it  is  the  Lord's  program  to 
send  legal  administrators  endowed  with 
power  from  on  high,  to  send  prophets 
and  Apostles  to  teach  his  truths  and 
perform  the  ordinances  of  salvation. 

Paul  was  one  of  these.  Since  he  was 
sent  to  the  Romans,  that  nation  was 
required  to  accept  him  as  an  Apostle 
in  order  to  accept  Christ  as  the  Savior. 
If  they  believed  in  Paul's  divine  com- 
mission, they  could  then  believe  his 
testimony  about  Christ  and  the  saving 
truths  of  his  gospel.  If  they  believed 
in  Christ  and  accepted  him  as  the  Son 
of  God,  they  of  necessity  had  to  believe 
that  Paul  was  an  Apostle,  for  he  was 
the  preacher  sent  to  them  to  reveal 
the  truth  about  Christ  and  the  gospel. 

Christ  and  His  Prophets 

Thus,  Christ  and  his  prophets  go  to- 
gether. They  cannot  be  separated.  It 
is  utterly  and  completely  impossible  to 
believe  in  Christ  without  also  believing 
in  and  accepting  the  divine  commis- 
sion of  the  prophets  sent  to  reveal  him 
and  to  carry  his  saving  truths  to  the 
world. 


38 

Friday,  October  2 

No  one  today  would  say:  "I  will 
believe  in  Christ,  but  will  not  believe 
in  Peter,  James,  and  John  and  their 
testimony  of  him."  In  the  very  nature 
of  things  belief  in  Christ  is  more  than 
accepting  him  as  a  single  person  stand- 
ing alone,  as  one  person  independent 
of  any  other.  Belief  in  Christ  pre- 
supposes and  includes  within  it  the 
acceptance  of  the  prophets  who  reveal 
him  to  the  world. 

Jesus  said:  "He  that  receiveth  whom- 
soever I  send  receiveth  me.  .  .  ."  (John 
13:20.)  Also:  "He  that  heareth  you 
heareth  me;  and  he  that  despiseth  you 
despiseth  me;  .  .  ."  (Luke  10:16.) 

To  believe  in  Christ  we  must  not 
only  accept  the  prophets  who  reveal 
him,  but  we  must  also  believe  the  scrip- 
tural accounts  recorded  by  those  pro- 
phets. Jesus  said  to  a  Book  of  Mormon 
prophet:  ".  .  .  he  that  will  not  believe 
my  words  will  not  believe  me — that  I 
am;  ..."  (Ether  4:12),  meaning  that 
he  will  not  believe  that  I  exist  and  am 
the  Son  of  God. 

Nephi,  another  Book  of  Mormon 
prophet,  invited  all  men  to  "believe 
in  Christ.  .  .  .  And  if  ye  shall  believe 
in  Christ,"  he  said,  "ye  will  believe  in 
these  words  [that  is,  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon  account],  for  they  are  the 
words  of  Christ,  and  he  hath  given 
them  unto  me;  .  .  ."  (2  Nephi  33:10.) 

The  Spirit  of  Prophecy 

But  even  the  very  scriptures  them- 
selves can  only  be  interpreted  with 
surety  when  the  spirit  of  prophecy  is 
present,  as  Peter  said:  ".  .  .  no  proph- 
ecy of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private 
interpretation. 

"For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old 
time  by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy  men 
of  God  spake  as  they  were  moved  by 
the  Holy  Ghost."  (2  Peter  1:20-21.) 

Prophets  gave  the  scripture,  and 
prophets  must  interpret  it.  Holy  men 
of  old  received  revelation  from  the 
Holy  Ghost,  which  they  recorded  as 
scripture;  now  men  must  have  the  same 
Holy  Spirit  to  reveal  what  is  meant 
by  the  scripture — otherwise  there  will 
be  a  host  of  private  interpretations 
and  consequently  many  different  and 
disagreeing  churches,  which  is  pre- 
cisely the  condition  in  the  religious 
world  today. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


By  the  Holy  Ghost 

And  finally,  to  believe  in  Christ  in 
the  full  and  perfect  and  saving  sense, 
we  must  heed  the  testimony  and  accept 
the  teachings  of  the  Lord's  prophets  so 
that  we  too  may  enjoy  the  promptings 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  feel  the  spirit 
of  revelation  in  our  own  souls.  The 
Comforter  is  given  to  the  Saints  to 
bear  record  of  the  Father  and  the  Son. 
".  .  .  no  man,"  Paul  says,  "can  say  that 
Jesus  is  the  Lord,  but  by  the  Holy 
Ghost."  (1  Cor.  12:3.) 

The  world  needs  prophets  today  as 
much  as  it  ever  did — prophets  who  are 
the  Lord's  agents,  who  stand  as  legal 
administrators  with  power  like  Peter's 
to  bind  on  earth  and  have  their  acts 
sealed  eternally  in  the  heavens;  proph- 
ets who  speak  for  God,  who  reveal  his 
mind  and  his  will  to  the  people;  proph- 
ets who  reveal  and  interpret  the  truths 
about  Christ  our  Lord  and  his  gospel. 

And  thanks  be  to  God,  for  through 
his  grace  and  goodness,  prophets  have 
again  been  called  to  reveal  anew,  with 
power  and  conviction,  the  truths 
about  Christ  and  salvation.  As  foretold 
and  promised  by  the  prophets  of  old, 
the  great  era  of  restoration  has  com- 
menced. Christ  has  again  revealed  him- 
self from  heaven;  priesthood  and 
keys  have  again  been  conferred  upon 
living  Apostles;  revelations,  visions, 
miracles,  and  all  the  gifts  and  graces 
enjoyed  by  the  faithful  of  old  are  again 
offered  to  those  who  will  come  unto 
Christ,  confess  his  holy  name  before 
men,  and  believe  in  their  hearts  that 
God  has  raised  him  from  the  dead  and 
made  him  both  Lord  and  King. 

And  so,  as  legal  administrators  au- 
thorized so  to  speak,  we  invite  all  men 
everywhere  to  come  unto  Christ  and  be 
perfected  in  him,  to  deny  themselves 
of  all  ungodliness,  to  accept  him  as  the 
Son  of  God,  and  to  gain  for  themselves 
peace  in  this  life  and  eternal  salvation 
in  the  life  to  come.  In  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church  will  be  our  next 
and  concluding  speaker. 


BISHOP  JOHN  1 

Presiding  Bishc 

"The  backslider  in  heart  shall  be  filled 
with  his  own  ways:  .  .  ."  (Prov.  14:14) 
is  a  proverb  credited  to  the  ancient  King 
Solomon,  who  the  Bible  records  was 
".  .  .  wiser  than  all  men;  ..."  (1  Kings 
4:31.)  It  is  assumed  that  Solomon  in  this 
proverb  referred  to  those  who  had  retro- 
gressed in  their  allegiance  to  God  by 
failing  to  give  heed  to  his  counsel.  Fre- 
quently God  has  sent  his  prophets  to 
counsel  his  children  in  an  attempt  to 
arrest  them  from  their  wrongdoing,  their 
backsliding,  and  to  point  the  way  to 
happiness  and  salvation.  The  task  of 
persuading  man  from  his  carnal  ways 
has  always  been  an  arduous  struggle,  as 
evidenced  by  history.  The  inhabitants 
of  the  earth  seem  eager  to  be  filled  with 
their  own  ways.  Because  of  this  the 
prophets  have,  from  time  to  time,  suf- 
fered much  tribulation. 

Counsel  of  the  Prophets 

Jeremiah  was  such  a  prophet.  In  his 
day  he  faced  almost  continuous  opposi- 
tion and  insult  as  he  tried  to  stem  the 
tide  of  idolatry  and  immorality  among 
the  people.  During  his  lifetime  he  tried 
to  teach  the  multitude  that  true  worship 
of  Jehovah  required  more  than  devotion 
to  external  forms  of  worship.  His  mes- 
sage was:  One  must  live  and  dedicate 
oneself  to  keeping  all  of  God's  command- 
ments. At  last,  many,  too  blind  to  see 
that  they  were  heading  for  destruction 
and  captivity  and  no  longer  of  a  mind  to 
listen  to  Jeremiah,  were  the  cause  of  his 
being  stoned  to  death.  His  tragic  death, 
however,  did  not  nullify  or  stay  his 
decreed  counsel,  for  soon  the  people 
passed  through  all  of  the  adversity  that 
he  foretold  would  transpire  if  they  did 
not  repent  of  their  evil  ways. 

In  contrast,  in  this  same  period  we 
learn  of  a  refreshing  episode  wherein  the 
Lord  told  the  Prophet  Jeremiah  to  go 
into  the  house  of  certain  men  called 
Rechabites  and  to  invite  them  into  the 
house  of  the  Lord  and  give  them  wine 
to  drink.  When  wine  was  placed  before 
them,  however,  they  refused  to  drink  be- 
cause their  father  had  counseled  them 
never  to  drink  wine.  "Thus  have  we 
obeyed  the  voice  of  .  .  .  our  father  in 


.  VANDENBERG 

)  of  the  Church 

all  that  he  hath  charged  us,  .  .  ." 
(Jer.  35:8),  they  said.  After  these  young 
men  had  reaffirmed  their  steadfastness 
in  following  the  counsel  of  their  father, 
the  Lord  through  his  prophet  pro- 
nounced upon  them  a  special  blessing. 
He  decreed  that  members  of  this  family 
and  their  seed  would  always  be  num- 
bered among  the  righteous. 

The  determination  to  follow  good 
counsel,  to  obey  divine  law,  is  para- 
mount for  true  success  and  happiness  in 
life.  In  the  era  in  which  we  live,  as  an- 
ciently, the  Lord  has  sent  us  his  prophets 
and  has  reaffirmed  the  need  to  adhere  to 
his  precepts.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
on  April  2,  1843,  said,  "There  is  a  law, 
irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the 
foundations  of  this  world,  upon  which 
all  blessings  are  predicated — 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated."  (D&C 
130:20-21.)  Paralleling  this  revealed 
truth  is  the  admonition: 

".  .  .  let  every  man  learn  his  duty, 
and  to  act  in  the  office  in  which  he  is 
appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be 
counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that 
learns  not  his  duty  .  .  .  shows  himself 
not  approved.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  107:99-100.) 

To  Ignore  Counsel  is  to  Invite  Failure 

It  seems  that  one  of  the  great  weak- 
nesses in  man's  character  is  the  tend- 
ency to  shun  good  counsel  and  instruc- 
tion. Men  do,  in  fact,  set  up  barriers  for 
themselves,  for  they  seem  to  want  to 
become  laws  unto  themselves.  Jacob 
understood  this  when  he  warned,  ". . .  O 
the  vainness,  and  the  frailties,  and  the 
foolishness  of  men!  When  they  are 
learned  they  think  they  are  wise,  and 
they  hearken  not  unto  the  counsel  of 
God,  for  they  set  it  aside,  supposing  they 
know  of  themselves,  wherefore,  their 
wisdom  is  foolishness  and  it  profiteth 
them  not.  .  .  . 

"But  to  be  learned  is  good  if  they 
hearken  unto  the  counsels  of  God."  (2 
Nephi  9:28-29.) 

Some  years  ago  the  MIA  theme  was, 
".  .  .  seek  not  to  counsel  the  Lord,  but 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  2 

to  take  counsel  from  his  hand.  For  be- 
hold, ye  yourselves  know  that  he  coun- 
seled in  wisdom,  and  in  justice,  and 
in  great  mercy,  over  all  his  works." 
(Jacob  4:10.) 

There  have  been  some  noble  men 
who  unwittingly  sought  to  counsel  the 
Lord.  One  such  man  was  Hezekiah,  king 
of  Judah,  who  began  to  reign  when  he 
was  twenty-five  years  old.  The  scriptures 
tell  us  that  during  his  reign  ".  .  .  he  did 
that  which  was  right  in  the  sight  of  the 
Lord,  .  .  . 

"He  removed  the  high  places,  and 
brake  the  images,  and  cut  down  the 
groves,  and  brake  in  pieces  the  brasen 
serpent  .  .  .  for  .  .  .  the  children  of 
Israel  did  burn  incense  to  it.  .  .  . 

"He  trusted  in  the  Lord  God  of  Israel; 
so  that  after  him  was  none  like  him 
among  all  the  kings  of  Judah,  nor  any 
that  were  before  him. 

"For  he  clave  to  the  Lord,  and  de- 
parted not  from  following  him,  but  kept 
his  commandments,  which  the  Lord 
commanded  Moses."  (2  Kings  18:3-6.) 

It  is  recorded  that  in  about  the 
fifteenth  year  of  Hezekiah's  reign, 
".  .  .  Hezekiah  [was]  sick  unto  death. 
And  the  prophet  Isaiah  .  .  .  came  to 
him,  and  said  unto  him,  Thus  saith  the 
Lord,  Set  thine  house  in  order;  for  thou 
shalt  die,  and  not  live. 

"Then  he  turned  his  face  to  the  wall, 
and  prayed  unto  the  Lord,  saying, 

"I  beseech  thee,  O  Lord,  remember 
now  how  I  have  walked  before  thee  in 
truth  and  with  a  perfect  heart,  and  have 
done  that  which  is  good  in  thy  sight. 
.  .  ."  (Ibid.,  20:1-3.) 

The  Lord  then  spoke  to  Isaiah  the 
Prophet  and  said  to  him,  ".  .  .  tell  Heze- 
kiah .  .  .  Thus  saith  the  Lord,  .  .  . 
I  have  heard  thy  prayer,  I  have  seen  thy 
tears:  behold,  I  will  heal  thee:  .  .  . 

"And  I  will  add  unto  thy  days  fifteen 
years, ..."  (Ibid.,  20:5-6.) 

Thus  the  Lord  granted  Hezekiah's  re- 
quest to  extend  his  life.  This,  no  doubt, 
was  enjoyed  by  Hezekiah,  for  during 
these  additional  years  he  did  many 
things.  But  there  was  one  unforeseen 
occurrence  that  destroyed  much  of  the 
good  he  had  accomplished.  Hezekiah 
sired  a  son  who  was  twelve  years  of  age 
when  his  father  passed  away.  This  son, 
whose  name  was  Manasseh,  became  king 


First  Day 

and  ".  .  .  did  that  which  was  evil  in  the 
sight  of  the  Lord,  after  the  abominations 
of  the  heathen.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  he  reared  up  altars  for  Baal,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  used  enchantments,  and  dealt 
with  familiar  spirits  and  wizards:  he 
wrought  much  wickedness  in  the  sight  of 
the  Lord,  to  provoke  him  to  anger. 

".  .  .  Moreover  Manasseh  shed  inno- 
cent blood  very  much,  .  .  .  [and]  filled 
Jerusalem  ...  in  doing  that  which  was 
evil  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord."  (Ibid., 
21:2-3,  6,  16.) 

As  one  reviews  this  account,  one  won- 
ders, would  it  not  have  been  better  for 
Hezekiah  to  have  submissively  accepted 
the  Lord's  first  decree,  ".  .  .  Set  thine 
house  in  order;  for  thou  shalt  die,  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  20:1.) 

Father  Adam  Accepted  Counsel 

Father  Adam  set  us  a  splendid  example 
of  following  counsel.  After  Adam  and 
Eve  were  driven  out  from  the  Garden  of 
Eden,  the  Lord  ".  .  .  gave  unto  them 
commandments,  that  they  should  wor- 
ship the  Lord  their  God,  and  should 
offer  the  firstlings  of  their  flocks,  for  an 
offering  unto  the  Lord.  And  Adam  was 
obedient  unto  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord. 

"And  after  many  days  an  angel  of  the 
Lord  appeared  unto  Adam,  saying:  Why 
dost  thou  offer  sacrifices  unto  the  Lord? 
And  Adam  said  unto  him:  I  know  not, 
save  the  Lord  commanded  me. 

"And  then  the  angel  spake,  saying: 
This  thing  is  a  similitude  of  the  sacri- 
fice of  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father, 
which  is  full  of  grace  and  truth."  (Moses 
5:5-7.) 

Be  Submissive  to  God 

Our  attitude  should  be  one  of  submis- 
siveness  to  all  of  God's  commandments. 
We  need  not  indulge  in  self-sophisti- 
cated reasoning  to  justify  our  compliance 
with  God's  counsel.  Our  motivation 
should  be  based  upon  a  desire  to  serve. 

The  late  President  Joseph  F.  Smith 
said  if  the  President  of  the  Church 
".  .  .  or  somebody  else  gives  counsel 
to  some  of  our  brethren,  if  it  does  not 
suit  them  exactly,  they  will  begin  to 
whine  about  it,  and  shed  great  crocodile 
tears,  perhaps.  I  have  heard  of  men 
shedding  tears  because  they  had  received 
counsel  from  their  brethren  I  And  what 


BISHOP  JOHN  H. 

is  more,  the  men  that  shed  tears  and 
mourn  over  having  received  a  little 
counsel,  are  the  kind  that  do  not  carry 
it  out;  or,  if  they  do,  they  tell  why  they 
did  it — making  somebody  else  respon- 
sible for  their  acts."  (Conference  Report, 
April  1899,  p.  70.) 

I  believe  that  God  wants  his  children 
to  be  happy  and  has  charted  the  course 
through  prophets  for  its  attainment.  I 
believe  that  true  happiness  will  only 
come  in  this  life  by  following  his  coun- 
sel. As  someone  has  said,  "Doing  the 
will  of  God  leaves  no  time  for  disputing 
about  his  plan." 

An  Example  from  the  Old  Testament 

We  can  learn  another  lesson  from  an 
incident  in  the  Old  Testament  concern- 
ing a  captain  in  the  Syrian  army  whose 
name  was  Naaman.  Syria's  armies  had 
attacked  ancient  Israel,  and  Naaman 
had  brought  as  a  captive  an  Israelite 
maid  who  waited  on  his  wife. 

Naaman  was  a  great  soldier,  but  he 
was  afflicted  with  leprosy.  The  little 
Israelite  girl  told  her  mistress  about  the 
Prophet  Elisha  who  could  heal  her 
husband.  So  Naaman  went  to  the 
Prophet  Elisha,  expecting  a  ceremonious 
reception.  He  was  bitterly  disappointed. 
Elisha  didn't  even  go  to  the  door  to 
greet  him;  instead,  he  sent  a  servant 
with  a  message  saying:  ".  .  .  Go  and 
wash  in  Jordan  seven  times,  and  thy 
flesh  shall  come  again  to  thee,  and  thou 
shalt  be  clean."  (2  Kings  5:10.) 

This  made  Naaman  very  angry.  He 
was  disappointed;  he  expected  Elisha  to 
satisfy  his  vanity  with  some  ritual  in 
calling  upon  the  Lord.  He  then  ques- 
tioned indignantly:  Why  the  river 
Jordan?  Are  not  there  other  rivers  that 
are  better?  He  turned  to  go  away  sullen- 
ly. Whereupon  his  servant  spoke  to  him 
and  said,  ".  .  .  if  the  prophet  had  bid 
thee  to  do  some  great  thing,  wouldest 
thou  not  have  done  it?"  This  question 
cleared  Naaman's  thinking,  and  he  re- 
solved to  follow  the  prophet's  advice, 
and  he  went  down  and  dipped  himself 
seven  times  in  the  river  Jordan.  His 
flesh  came  again  like  unto  a  little  child, 
and  he  was  clean.  Naaman  went  back  to 
the  Prophet  Elisha,  filled  with  gratitude, 
and  offered  to  pay  him  for  making  him 
whole.  But  Elisha  knew  it  was  by  the 


VANDENBERG  41 

power  of  God  that  Naaman  was  made 
well  and  declined  the  gift.  (See  ibid., 
5:13.) 

You  can  imagine  the  joy  that  Naaman 
and  his  family  experienced  as  a  result 
of  following  the  counsel  and  direction  of 
the  prophet. 

A  Modern  Example 

A  few  years  ago,  a  bishop  from  a  small 
agricultural  town  visited  my  office  to 
arrange  for  the  dedication  of  the  meet- 
inghouse in  his  ward.  During  our  con- 
versation he  told  me  that  when  he  was 
advised  by  the  brethren  to  build  a  meet- 
inghouse, he  had  many  doubts,  since  it 
was  a  small  community  with  modest 
resources.  He  said,  "I  didn't  have  the 
slightest  idea  where  the  money  was 
coming  from,  but  following  counsel,  we 
started,  and  the  funds  came  and  now 
we  are  ready  to  dedicate,  having  all 
bills  paid."  Then  he  added,  "And  do 
you  know,  the  tithing  paid  by  those  good 
Saints  has  increased  over  600%  during 
the  three-year  period!"  I  have  never  seen 
a  person  filled  with  more  joy  and  satis- 
faction than  this  good  bishop,  who 
simply  followed  counsel. 

Recently  a  member  of  the  church 
building  committee  told  me  about  a  visit 
he  had  made  to  a  new  building  project. 
This  particular  project  had  been  com- 
pleted with  such  efficiency  and  order 
that  everyone  viewed  the  achievement  as 
an  unbelievable  feat.  I  was  told  that  they 
did  nothing  dramatic  to  bring  about  the 
accomplishment;  they  simply  followed 
the  counsel  given  through  the  program. 
He  said  further  that  "on  this  project,  as 
on  many  others,  the  Lord's  hand  has 
been  plainly  manifested  in  procuring 
materials  and  performing  the  work. 
These  fine  people  can  testify  that  the 
building  program  is  inspired  of  God. 
The  workmanship  is  excellent,  the  peo- 
ple have  grown  spiritually,  and  there  is 
a  unity  and  oneness  in  the  group,  result- 
ing from  the  united  desire  to  follow 
direction." 

Likewise,  all  of  us  should  be  eager 
to  adopt  and  follow  the  suggested  pro- 
grams of  the  Church,  for  in  this  respect 
we  demonstrate  our  willingness  to  heed 
counsel. 

I  pray  that  we  will  continue  to  culti- 
vate a  firm  resolve,  as  demonstrated  by 


42 


Saturday,  October  3 

Nephi  when  he  declared,  "...  I  will  go 
and  do  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath 
commanded,  for  I  know  that  the  Lord 
giveth  no  commandments  unto  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  save  he  shall  prepare  a  way 
for  them  that  they  may  accomplish  the 
thing  which  he  commandeth  them."  (1 
Nephi  3:7.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Bishop  John  H.  Vandenberg  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  has  been  our  con- 
cluding speaker 

As  heretofore  announced  the  singing 
of  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  from  the 
Juab,  Sanpete,  and  Richfield  areas, 
under  the  direction  of  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen,  with  Frank  W.  Asper 
at  the  organ.  In  behalf  of  all  who  have 
listened  to  the  singing  during  the  Gen- 
eral Conference  sessions  today — the 
General  Authorities  and  the  audience 
here  in  the  Tabernacle  and,  I  am  sure, 
the  large  radio  and  television  audience 
— we  express  appreciation  and  thanks 
to  these  singing  Mothers  for  their  beau- 
tiful music.  God  bless  them  for  the  serv- 
ice they  have  rendered  in  these  Confer- 
ence sessions  today. 

Our  Saturday  morning  session  will  be 
broadcast  direct  by  numerous  radio  and 
television  stations  and  recorded  for 
transmission  on  Sunday  morning  at  ten 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

o'clock,  Eastern  Daylight  Time,  and 
nine  o'clock,  Eastern  Standard  Time,  by 
many  television  stations  in  the  Eastern 
part  of  the  United  States. 

Both  sessions  of  our  Conference  today, 
and  Saturday,  and  Sunday  will  be  re- 
broadcast  over  KSL  Radio  the  following 
morning  starting  at  one  o'clock  and  will 
be  heard  in  many  parts  of  the  United 
States  and  in  the  world,  including  Can- 
ada, Mexico,  Alaska,  and  in  the  Islands 
of  the  Pacific;  and  a  delayed  television 
release  also  will  show  the  Saturday 
morning  session  of  Conference  to  viewers 
over  three  television  stations  in  Hawaii. 
Video  tape  will  be  flown  from  the  Main- 
land for  broadcast  Sunday  morning 
there. 

There  will  be  a  Welfare  Meeting — 
Agriculture  Meeting — in  the  Assembly 
Hall  tomorrow  morning,  Saturday,  at 
7:30,  from  7:30  to  9:30.  Stake  presi- 
dencies, stake  high  councilmen,  bishop- 
rics, welfare  advisers  from  all  stakes,  and 
all  others  interested  in  agriculture  are 
invited  to  attend  this  meeting. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  the  number, 
"Abide  With  Me,  Tis  Eventide,"  con- 
ducted by  Sister  Madsen. 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
President  Max  C.  Mortensen  of  the 
Yellowstone  Stake,  after  which  this 
general  session  of  Conference  will  be 
adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  Saturday 
morning. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

(Preliminary  singing  by  Tabernacle 
Choir:  "One  of  God's  Best  Mornings.") 

We  cordially  welcome  all  present  this 
morning  in  this  historic  Tabernacle  and 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  on  Temple  Square, 
together  with  the  vast  television  and 
radio  audience  throughout  the  world, 
in  this  the  third  session  of  the  134th 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
am  sure  I  speak  for  all  present,  and  I 
am  equally  sure  that  all  you  who  are 


listening  in  wherever  you  may  be,  would 
join  us  in  expressions  of  regret  that 
President  David  O.  McKay  is  unable  to 
be  with  us.  And  further,  you  would  join 
us  I  am  sure,  in  expressing  to  God  our 
Father  our  thanks  for  his  wonderful 
service  and  our  prayers  for  his  future 
welfare.  He  will  preside  at  this  session 
and  all  sessions.  President  Tanner  and 
I  have  just  left  him.  He  is  feeling  reason- 
ably well  but  has  concluded  to  abide  by 
the  decision  and  advice  of  his  physicians. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


43 


Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will 
open  this  service  by  singing  "Jesus, 
Name  of  Wondrous  Love."  Following 
the  singing  the  invocation  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  James  A.  Cullimore, 
formerly  president  of  the  Central  British 
Mission. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  now  favor  us  with  "Brightly 
Beams  Our  Father's  Mercy."  Following 
the  singing  President  Nathan  Eldon 
Tanner  of  the  First  Presidency  will 
speak  to  us. 


PRESIDENT  NATHA 

Second  Counselor  in 

On  behalf  of  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church  I  bring  greetings  and  best  wishes 
to  all  assembled  here  in  this  great 
Tabernacle,  to  the  vast  listening  audi- 
ence, and  to  all  the  world,  and  bear 
witness  to  you  that  ".  .  .  God  so  loved 
the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten 
Son,  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him 
should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting 
life"  (John  3:16);  that  the  gospel  of 
Christ  "is  the  power  of  God  unto  sal- 
vation to  every  one  that  believeth" 
(Rom.  1:16);  and  that  Christ's  work 
and  his  glory,  in  his  own  words,  is 
".  .  .  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

Today  I  should  like  to  address  myself 
especially  to  the  young  people  of  the 
Church,  and  to  any  others  who  may  be 
listening  in,  and  humbly  pray  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  enlighten  our 
minds  and  touch  our  hearts,  that  we 
may  understand  the  truthfulness  and 
the  meaning  of  the  statement,  "For  I 
know  that  my  redeemer  liveth,  .  .  ." 
(Job  19:25.) 

The  Real  Existence  of  the  Father 
and  the  Son 

Because  of  the  great  doubt  that  exists 
throughout  the  world  and  which  has 
been  expressed  in  many  places,  even  by 
influential  men,  including  ministers  of 
the  gospel,  regarding  the  real  existence 
of  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  some  of  our  youth  are  ex- 
periencing doubt  and  are  asking  such 
questions  as:  "Was  Jesus  Christ  actually 
the  Son  of  God?"  "Was  he  crucified  and 
literally  resurrected?"  "Is  the  gospel  any 
more  than  just  a  moral  code  of  ethics?" 

Before  dealing  with  these  questions  I 
should  like  to  emphasize  this  one  fact, 
that  those  who  are  questioning  the  exist- 


N  ELDON  TANNER 

the  First  Presidency 

ence  and  power  of  God  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  and  the  purpose  of  Christ's 
mission  here  upon  the  earth  readily  ac- 
cept the  fact  that  man  with  his  finite 
mind  can  put  inanimate  things  into  space 
and  keep  in  touch  with  them,  receive 
messages  from  and  send  messages  to 
them  and  control  them,  and  that  he  has 
directed  their  courses  even  to  the  point 
of  hitting  the  moon.  Yet  they  doubt  that 
God  the  Creator  of  all  can  speak  to  man, 
that  man's  prayers  can  be  and  truly  are 
answered  regularly. 

The  Scriptures  Testify  of  Him 

The  scriptures  have  much  to  say  about 
the  coming  of  Jesus  Christ,  his  mission, 
his  crucifixion  and  resurrection,  the 
message  of  peace  and  love,  and  the  plan 
of  life  and  salvation  which  he  brought. 
All  of  the  scriptures  which  we  have  are 
not  accepted  by  all  of  the  people  in  the 
world  today.  The  Old  Testament  is  ac- 
cepted by  the  Jewish  people  as  the  word 
of  God.  The  Old  Testament  and  the 
New  Testament  are  accepted  by  the 
Catholics  and  Protestants  as  the  word 
of  God. 

We  as  members  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  com- 
monly called  Mormons,  accept  the  Old 
Testament  and  the  New  Testament  and 
also  the  Book  of  Mormon  as  the  word 
of  God,  as  well  as  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 
These  are  accepted  as  the  standard  works 
of  our  Church. 

There  is  no  conflict  between  the 
teachings  of  the  Old  and  New  Testa- 
ment or  between  the  Bible  and  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  all  of  which 
contain  the  gospel  message  as  given  by 
God  through  his  prophets  from  Adam 


44  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  3 

down  to  Joseph  Smith,  and  by  Jesus 
Christ  himself  as  he  visited  the  Old 
and  the  New  World?  It  is  my  intention 
to  refer  to  all  of  these  scriptures  which 
provide  us  with  irrefutable  documented 
evidence  and  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  and  the  Savior 
of  the  world. 

His  Coming  Predicted 

One  of  the  greatest  evidences  that  he 
is  the  Son  of  God  and  that  he  was 
chosen  by  God  as  the  Savior  of  the 
world  is  the  fact  that  his  coming  was 
foretold  centuries  before  his  birth  and 
mission  here  upon  the  earth.  His  coming 
was  seen  in  vision  and  foretold  by  Adam, 
Enoch,  Moses,  Job,  David,  Zechariah, 
Isaiah,  Micah,  Lehi,  Nephi,  Jacob,  King 
Benjamin,  Alma,  Abinadi,  Samuel,  and 
many  others,  including  Mary,  the  moth- 
er of  Jesus. 

Moses  tells  us  that  after  they  had  been 
turned  out  of  the  Garden  of  Eden  into 
the  lone  and  dreary  world,  Adam  and 
Eve,  his  wife,  called  upon  the  name  of 
the  Lord  and  offered  sacrifice  unto  the 
Lord. 

"And  after  many  days  an  angel  of  the 
Lord  appeared  unto  Adam,  saying:  Why 
dost  thou  offer  sacrifices  unto  the  Lord? 
And  Adam  said  unto  him:  I  know  not, 
save  the  Lord  commanded  me. 

"And  then  the  angel  spake,  saying: 
This  thing  is  a  similitude  of  the  sacri- 
fice of  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father, 
which  is  full  of  grace  and  truth. 

"Wherefore,  thou  shalt  do  all  that 
thou  doest  in  the  name  of  the  Son, 
and  thou  shalt  repent  and  call  upon 
God  in  the  name  of  the  Son  forevermore. 

"And  in  that  day  the  Holy  Ghost  fell 
upon  Adam,  which  beareth  record  of 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  saying:  I  am 
the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  from 
the  beginning,  henceforth  and  forever, 
that  as  thou  hast  fallen  thou  mayest  be 
redeemed,  and  all  mankind,  even  as 
many  as  will.  .  .  . 

"And  thus  the  Gospel  began  to  be 
preached,  from  the  beginning,  .  .  ." 
(Moses  5:6-9,  58.) 

Oral  Traditions 

Ever  since  that  time  this  information 
has  been  handed  down  from  father  to 
son,  and  therefore  the  human  family, 


Second  Day 

whether  pagans  or  Christians,  have  con- 
tinued to  look  toward  some  kind  of  God 
and  rely  upon  a  Savior  to  redeem  them 
from  the  evils  of  mortality.  Because  of 
apostasies  and  false  teachings,  men  have 
had  distorted  views  and  beliefs  regard- 
ing Jesus  the  Christ.  However,  because 
of  God's  interest  in  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man,  he  has  seen  fit  to 
inform  his  people  through  his  chosen 
prophets  in  the  different  dispensations 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  that  their 
salvation  can  come  only  in  and  through 
him. 

Enoch  saw  the  day  of  the  coming  of 
the  Son  of  Man,  even  in  the  flesh,  and 
he  beheld  the  Son  of  Man  lifted  up  on 
the  cross,  after  the  manner  of  men, 
and  then  Enoch  beheld  the  Son  of  Man 
ascend  up  unto  the  Father.  (See  ibid.. 
7:47-59.) 

Prophecies  of  His  Coming 

It  is  impossible  for  me  today  to  refer 
to  or  quote  from  more  than  a  few  of 
the  visions  and  prophecies  foretelling 
the  coming  of  Christ.  However,  seven 
hundred  years  before  Christ  was  born, 
Isaiah  made  this  prophecy: 

"For  unto  us  a  child  is  born,  unto  us 
a  son  is  given:  and  the  government  shall 
be  upon  his  shoulder:  and  his  name 
shall  be  called  Wonderful,  Counsellor, 
The  mighty  God,  The  everlasting  Fa- 
ther, The  Prince  of  Peace."  (Isa.  9:6.) 

He  also  predicted  that  Christ  would  be 
born  of  a  virgin,  that  he  would  be  de- 
spised and  rejected  of  men,  and  that  he 
would  go  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter 
and  make  intercession  for  the  trans- 
gressors, and  said,  "Surely  he  hath 
borne  our  griefs,  and  carried  our  sor- 
rows: yet  we  did  esteem  him  stricken, 
smitten  of  God,  and  afflicted."  (See 
ibid.,  53:1-12.) 

His  Coming  Anticipated 
Through  the  Centuries 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  find  that 
from  six  hundred  years  before  Christ 
until  the  time  of  his  coming  many 
American  prophets  from  Lehi  to  the 
Lamanite  prophet  Samuel  had  foretold 
that  he  would  be  born  of  a  virgin,  that 
he  was  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God  in 
the  flesh,  that  he  would  heal  the  sick 
and  bless  the  poor,  that  he  would  minis- 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


45 


ter  among  the  people  in  power  and 
glory,  but  that  he  would  be  judged  and 
crucified  by  man;  and  they  predicted 
that  whosoever  shall  believe  in  the  Son 
of  God,  the  same  shall  have  everlasting 
life.  "And  if  ye  believe  on  his  name  ye 
will  repent  of  all  your  sins,  that  thereby 
ye  may  have  a  remission  of  them 
through  his  merits."  (Hela.  14:13.) 

And  we  all  know,  as  recorded  in  Luke, 
the  angel  said  unto  Mary: 

".  .  .  thou  shalt  .  .  .  bring  forth  a  son, 
and  shalt  call  his  name  Jesus. 

"He  shall  be  great,  and  shall  be  called 
the  Son  of  the  Highest:  and  the  Lord 
God  shall  give  unto  him  the  throne  of 
his  father  David: 

"And  he  shall  reign  over  the  house 
of  Jacob  for  ever;  and  of  his  kingdom 
there  shall  be  no  end."  (Luke  1:31-33.) 

I  am  sure  that  many  of  you  young 
people  wonder  how  it  was  that  the 
shepherds  and  the  wise  men  were  looking 
for  and  recognized  the  sign  that  would 
tell  of  the  birth  of  the  Savior.  They  ex- 
pected a  new  star.  This  was  because 
ancient  prophets  had  foretold  the  signs 
that  would  appear.  Those  who  had  read 
of  the  prophecies  were  prepared  for  these 
signs  when  they  came,  and  what  a 
thrilling  thing  it  is  to  know,  as  recorded 
in  the  Gospel  of  Matthew,  that  the  wise 
men  from  the  east  followed  the  star  to 
the  place  of  his  birth,  and  as  they  came 
to  Jerusalem  they  asked:  ".  .  .  Where  is 
he  that  is  born  King  of  the  Jews?  for  we 
have  seen  his  star  in  the  east,  and  are 
come  to  worship  him."  (Matt.  2:2.) 
They  were  instructed  to  go  to  Bethlehem, 
where  he  would  be  born,  as  prophesied 
by  Micah  the  prophet.  When  they  ar- 
rived at  Bethlehem,  they  saw  the  young 
child  with  Mary,  his  mother,  and  fell 
down  and  worshiped  him. 

He  Dwelt  Among  Men 

All  the  scriptures  to  which  I  have  re- 
ferred are  testimonies  of  those  who  were 
told  by  angels  or  by  God  himself,  many 
years  before  the  birth  of  Christ,  that  he 
is  the  Son  of  God;  that  he  would  come 
and  dwell  among  men;  that  he  would  be 
crucified  and  resurrected;  and  that  all 
of  this  was  done  that  all  mankind  may 
be  saved. 


His  Ancient  Disciples  Testify 

We  also  have  the  testimonies  of  many 
of  those  who  walked  and  talked  with 
him  while  he  was  here  on  the  earth 
among  men,  who  testify  that  he  is  the 
Son  of  God.  In  fact,  the  New  Testament 
gives  its  readers  a  beautiful  and  enlight- 
ening story  of  Jesus  while  in  mortality 
and  of  his  message  of  love  and  sal- 
vation and  of  his  crucifixion  and  resur- 
rection. 

We  have  Peter's  testimony  as  recorded 
in  Matthew,  when  Christ,  speaking  to 
his  disciples, 

".  .  .  saith  unto  them,  But  whom  say 
ye  that  I  am? 

Peter's  Testimony 

"And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said, 
Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God. 

"And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto 
him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona: 
for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it 
unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven."  (Ibid.,  16:15-17.) 

Paul,  A  Witness 

Then  imagine  Paul,  who  without  fear, 
but  with  conviction,  pleaded  for  himself 
as  he  stood  in  chains  for  trial  before 
Agrippa,  saying  that  he  had  persecuted 
the  Christians,  and  when  they  were  put 
to  death  he  gave  his  voice  against  them. 
He  then  recited  the  vision  which  he  re- 
ceived while  he  was  on  his  way  to 
Damascus  to  persecute  the  Saints,  say- 
ing: 

"At  midday,  O  king,  I  saw  in  the  way 
a  light  from  heaven,  above  the  bright- 
ness of  the  sun,  shining  round  about  me 
and  them  which  journeyed  with  me. 

"And  when  we  were  all  fallen  to  the 
earth,  I  heard  a  voice  speaking  unto 
me,  and  saying  in  the  Hebrew  tongue, 
Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest  thou  me? 
it  is  hard  for  thee  to  kick  against  the 
pricks. 

"And  I  said,  Who  art  thou,  Lord? 
And  he  said,  I  am  Jesus  whom  thou 
persecutest."  (Acts  26:13-15.) 

Paul  then  bore  testimony  that  he  was 
directed  to  tell  the  people  that  Christ 
had  appeared  to  him,  that  they  were  to 
repent  and  turn  to  God  and  do  the 
works  meet  for  repentance,  and  said: 

"For  these  causes  the  Jews  caught  me 


46 

Saturday,  October  3 

in  the  temple,  and  went  about  to  kill 
me."  {Ibid.,  26:21.) 

As  he  proceeded  to  plead  for  himself 
he  said: 

"King  Agrippa,  believest  thou  the 
prophets?  I  know  that  thou  believest. 

"Then  Agrippa  said  unto  Paul,  Almost 
thou  persuadest  me  to  be  a  Christian. 

"And  Paul  said,  I  would  to  God,  that 
not  only  thou,  but  also  all  that  hear  me 
this  day,  were  both  almost,  and  alto- 
gether such  as  I  am,  except  these  bonds." 
{Ibid.,  26:27-29.) 

Other  Testimonies  of  Paul 

Paul,  when  released,  continued  to  bear 
testimony  to  the  Romans,  the  Corinthi- 
ans, the  Ephesians,  and  many  others 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of 
the  world,  and  that  he  did  appear  to 
and  instruct  him. 

Now  let  me  refer  to  Christ's  own 
beautiful  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  in 
which  he  admonished  mankind: 

The  Testimony  of  His  Teachings 

"But  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God, 
and  his  righteousness;  and  all  these 
things  shall  be  added  unto  you."  (Matt. 
6:33.) 

Then  he  went  on  to  say: 

"Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me, 
Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the 
will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 
{Ibid.,  7:21.)  p  , 

Another  touching  testimony  of  the 
reality  and  love  of  Christ,  even  as  he 
suffered  on  the  cross,  is  found  in  these 
words:  "Father,  forgive  them;  for  they 
know  not  what  they  do."  (Luke  23:34.) 

And  when  one  of  the  thieves  said  to 
Jesus,  "Lord,  remember  me  when  thou 
comest  into  thy  kingdom,"  Jesus  replied, 
"Verily  I  say  unto  thee,  To  day  shalt 
thou  be  with  me  in  paradise."  {Ibid., 
23:42-43.) 

Finally,  he  said:  "Father,  into  thy 
hands  I  commend  my  spirit:  and  having 
said  thus,  he  gave  up  the  ghost."  {Ibid., 
23:46.) 

His  Resurrection 

On  the  early  morning  of  the  Sabbath 
following  his  crucifixion  the  devoted 
Mary  Magdalene  and  the  other  Mary 
came  to  the  tomb,  and  the  angel  who 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Daj 

had  rolled  away  the  stone  said  unto  the 
women: 

".  .  .  Fear  not  ye:  for  I  know  that  ye 
seek  Jesus,  which  was  crucified. 

"He  is  not  here:  for  he  is  risen,  as  he 
said.  Come,  see  the  place  where  the 
Lord  lay. 

"And  go  quickly,  and  tell  his  disciples 
that  he  is  risen  from  the  dead;  .  .  ." 
(Matt.  28:5-7.) 

His  Disciples,  Witnesses 

Following  his  resurrection,  the  dis- 
ciples were  discussing  the  message  that 
the  Lord  had  risen  indeed  and  had  ap- 
peared to  Simon. 

"And  as  they  thus  spake,  Jesus  him- 
self stood  in  the  midst  of  them,  and  said 
unto  them,  Peace  be  unto  you. 

"But  they  were  terrified  and  affrighted, 
and  supposed  that  they  had  seen  a 
spirit. 

"And  he  said  unto  them,  Why  are  ye 
troubled?  and  why  do  thoughts  arise  in 
your  hearts? 

"Behold  my  hands  and  my  feet,  that 
it  is  I  myself:  handle  me,  and  see;  for  a 
spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as  ye  see 
me  have. 

"And  when  he  had  thus  spoken,  he 
shewed  them  his  hands  and  his  feet." 
(Luke  24:36-40.) 

Thomas,  who  was  not  present,  did  not 
believe  that  Jesus  had  come  to  them,  but 
after  eight  days  Jesus  appeared  again  to 
the  disciples,  and  Thomas  was  with 
them. 

"Then  saith  he  to  Thomas,  Reach 
hither  thy  finger,  and  behold  my  hands; 
and  reach  hither  thy  hand,  and  thrust  it 
into  my  side:  and  be  not  faithless,  but 
believing. 

"And  Thomas  answered  and  said  unto 
him,  My  Lord  and  my  God. 

"Jesus  saith  unto  him,  Thomas,  be- 
cause thou  hast  seen  me,  thou  hast  be- 
lieved: blessed  are  they  that  have  not 
seen,  and  yet  have  believed. 

"And  many  other  signs  truly  did  Jesus 
in  the  presence  of  his  disciples,  which 
are  not  written  in  this  book: 

"But  these  are  written,  that  ye  might 
believe  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God;  and  that  believing  ye  might 
have  life  through  his  name."  (John 
20:27-31.) 

When  Jesus  had  spoken  to  his  Apos- 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


47 


ties,  and  while  they  beheld,  he  was 
taken  up  and  a  cloud  received  him  out 
of  their  sight. 

"And  while  they  looked  stedfastly  to- 
ward heaven  as  he  went  up,  behold, 
two  men  stood  by  them  in  white  ap- 
parel; 

"Which  also  said,  Ye  men  of  Galilee, 
why  stand  ye  gazing  up  into  heaven? 
this  same  Jesus,  which  is  taken  up  from 
you  into  heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like 
manner  as  ye  have  seen  him  go  into 
heaven."  (See  Acts  1:9-11.) 

Testimony  from  the  Western  World 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon  also  we  have 
the  testimony  that  Christ  appeared  to 
the  multitude  on  the  American  continent 
following  his  crucifixion,  and  the  multi- 
tude heard  a  voice  which  said  unto 
them: 

"Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I 
am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have  glori- 
fied my  name — hear  ye  him. 

"...  and  behold,  they  saw  a  Man  de- 
scending out  of  heaven;  and  he  was 
clothed  in  a  white  robe;  and  he  came 
down  and  stood  in  the  midst  of  them; . . . 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  he  stretched 
forth  his  hand  and  spake  unto  the 
people,  saying: 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the 
prophets  testified  shall  come  into  the 
world."  (3  Nephi  11:7-10.) 

And  he  invited  them  to  come  forth 
and  thrust  their  hands  into  his  side  and 
to  feel  the  prints  of  the  nails  in  his 
hands  and  feet  (See  ibid.,  11:14-15.) 

All  Trustworthy  Witnesses 

All  of  these  testimonies  to  which  I 
have  referred  were  made  by  men  of 
integrity  who  had  no  reason  to  lie  or  de- 
ceive or  mislead  in  any  way,  but  who 
in  spite  of  all  threats  and  danger  con- 
tinued to  testify  that  they  had  seen 
Jesus  Christ  before,  at  the  time  of,  and 
following  his  crucifixion  and  resurrec- 
tion. These  testimonies  then  are  of  the 
resurrected  Lord,  not  Jesus,  the  Teacher, 
nor  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  but  Jesus  the 
Lord,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind. 

Why  do  men  doubt  the  truthfulness 
of  these  irrefutable  testimonies  of  these 
great  men  and  deprive  themselves  and 
their  families  of  the  guidance  of  his 


Spirit?  I  urge  those  who  have  any  doubt 
to  do  as  Moroni  admonishes  us  to  do, 
that  is,  ".  .  .  ask  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these 
things  are  not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask 
with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent, 
having  faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest 
the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost."  (Moroni  10:4.) 

Joseph  Smith,  a  Witness 

One  of  the  most  outstanding  testi- 
monies of  all  time  regarding  the  di- 
vinity of  Jesus  Christ  is  that  borne  by 
that  young  boy  Joseph  Smith  in  our 
dispensation  just  over  a  century  ago, 
when  he,  only  fourteen  years  of  age, 
went  into  the  grove  alone  to  ask  God 
in  all  humility  which  church  he  should 
join.  From  his  own  written  record  we 
read  the  experience  of  this  young  man: 

"...  I  kneeled  down  and  began  to 
offer  up  the  desire  of  my  heart  to 
God  

"...  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly 
over  my  head,  above  the  brightness  of 
the  sun,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  When  the  light  rested  upon  me 
I  saw  two  Personages,  whose  brightness 
and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake 
unto  me,  calling  me  by  name  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other— This  is  My  Be- 
loved Son.  Hear  Himl 

"...  I  asked  the  Personages  who  stood 
above  me  in  the  light,  which  of  all  the 
sects  was  right — and  which  I  should 
join. 

"I  was  answered  that  I  must  join 
none  of  them,  for  they  were  all  wrong." 
(Joseph  Smith  2:15-19.) 

As  he  left  that  grove  he  knew  as  he 
knew  he  lived  that  God  and  Jesus  Christ 
live  and  that  in  answer  to  his  prayer 
they  had  appeared  and  spoken  to  him. 
As  he  told  ministers  and  others  of  his 
experience  and  the  vision  that  he  had 
seen,  though  he  was  an  obscure  boy  of 
only  fourteen  years  of  age,  he  was  perse- 
cuted by  the  great  ones  of  the  most  popu- 
lar sects  of  the  day,  and  ridiculed  and 
tormented.  In  spite  of  all  this  persecution 
he  continued  to  bear  testimony  that  he 
had  seen  a  vision;  that  God  knew  he 
had  seen  it  and  that  he  could  not  deny 
it.  (See  ibid.,  2:25.) 


48 

Saturday,  October  3 

The  "Testimony  Last  of  All" 

Another  vision  to  which  I  should  like 
to  refer  is  that  given  to  Joseph  Smith 
the  Prophet  and  Sidney  Rigdon  over  a 
year  after  the  Church  was  organized, 
which  bears  further  witness  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ  in  these  words: 

"Hear,  O  ye  heavens,  and  give  ear,  O 
earth,  and  rejoice  ye  inhabitants  thereof, 
for  the  Lord  is  God,  and  beside  him 
there  is  no  Savior. 

"By  the  power  of  the  Spirit  our  eyes 
were  opened  and  our  understandings 
were  enlightened,  so  as  to  see  and 
understand  the  things  of  God — 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies 
which  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is 
the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we 
give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only 
Begotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and 
of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten 
sons  and  daughters  unto  God."  (D&C 
76:1,  12,  22-24.) 

He  is  the  Christ  .... 

And  to  you  young  people  today  I 
should  like  to  bear  my  own  personal 
testimony  that  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  I  know  as  I  know  I  live  that  God 
lives;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world;  that  he  came  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

dwelt  among  men;  that  he  willingly 
gave  his  life  for  you  and  me;  that  he 
was  literally  resurrected;  that  he  and 
God  the  Eternal  Father  did  actually 
appear  to  Joseph  Smith  in  answer  to  his 
prayer. 

If  people  throughout  the  world  would 
accept  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son  of  God 
and  keep  his  commandments,  there 
would  be  no  more  war  but  peace  and 
good  will  in  the  world,  and  we  would 
be  assured  of  immortality  and  eternal 
life. 

I  further  bear  testimony  that  David 
O.  McKay  is  a  prophet  of  God,  as  were 
the  prophets  who  preceded  him  and 
that  he  is  led  and  directed  by  the  Lord 
himself. 

It  is  our  responsibility  as  members  of 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  who  have  this  testimony  to  bear  it 
to  the  world  and  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  so  that  we  might  all  en- 
joy eternal  life,  which  is  God's  greatest 
gift  to  man.  May  God  bless  us  all  to  this 
end,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

President  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  of 
the  First  Presidency  has  just  spoken 
to  us. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing 
"I  Would  Be  Worthy"  after  which  we 
shall  hear  from  Elder  Marion  G.  Rom- 
ney  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  seen 
and  unseen — for  I  include  you  all  in 
this  salutation.  I  hope  the  Spirit  will 
bear  witness  that  I  mean  it,  for  I  know 
that  we  are  all  brothers  and  sisters. 

The  Concept  of  God 
Taught  by  the  Church 

Under  the  title  "The  Living  and  True 
God,"  I  purpose  this  morning  to  set 
forth  the  concept  of  God  as  known  and 
taught  by  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  fact  that  one's 
understanding  of  God  is  the  basis  of  his 
religion  tends  to  make  the  subject  itself 


somewhat  controversial.  This  fact  will, 
I  hope,  to  your  satisfaction  account  for 
any  seeming  intolerance  in  what  I  say. 
I  don't  want  to  be  intolerant,  and  I 
don't  think  that  I  am.  I  do,  however, 
earnestly  desire  to  convey  to  you  a  clear 
explanation  of  the  "Living  and  True 
God."  And,  although  I  remember  read- 
ing of  the  furor  raised  by  Paul  when  he 
attempted  to  do  this  same  thing  in 
Athens,  and  that  they  charged  him  with 
being  "...  a  setter  forth  of  strange 
gods  .  . ."  (Acts  17:18),  still  I  feel  some- 
what as  did  Peter  and  John  when  they 
were  commanded  by  the  rulers  of  the 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


49 


Jews  not  to  preach  or  teach  any  more  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  You  will  remember 
that  they  answered  and  said  unto  them, 
".  .  .  Whether  it  be  right  in  the  sight 
of  God  to  hearken  unto  you  more  than 
unto  God,  judge  ye. 

"For  we  cannot  but  speak  the  things 
which  we  have  seen  and  heard."  {Ibid., 
4:19-20.) 

I  have  sought,  and  I  now  seek  and 
invite  each  of  you  to  join  with  me  in  a 
prayer  for  guidance  and  for  communion 
between  the  living  and  true  God  and 
you  and  me  that  we  may  all  be  edified. 

The  church's  doctrine  of  the  living 
and  true  God  is  based  upon  the  experi- 
ences and  teaching  of  its  prophet  found- 
er, Joseph  Smith,  Jun.  Speaking  on  this 
most  important  subject  he  once  said: 

The  Prophet  Speaks  of  God 

".  .  .  we  know  that  there  is  a  God 
in  heaven,  who  is  infinite  and  eternal, 
from  everlasting  to  everlasting  the  same 
unchangeable  God,  the  framer  of  heaven 
and  earth,  and  all  things  which  are  in 
them; 

"And  that  he  created  man,  male  and 
female,  after  his  own  image  and  in  his 
own  likeness,  .  .  . 

"And  gave  unto  them  commandments 
that  they  should  love  and  serve  him, 
the  only  living  and  true  God,  and  that 
he  should  be  the  only  being  whom  they 
should  worship."  (D&C  20:17-19.  Italics 
added.) 

This  scripture  was  given  in  1830.  It  is, 
therefore,  modern  scripture.  However, 
the  teachings  in  it  are  not  new.  That 
there  is  a  God  in  heaven  who  created 
the  heaven  and  the  earth  is  taught  in 
the  first  verse  of  the  first  chapter  of  the 
first  book  in  the  Bible.  That  he  created 
man,  male  and  female,  iHiis  own  image 
is  taught  in  the  same  chapter.  That 
men  should  love  and  serve  him  and 
that  he  should  be  the  only  being  whom 
they  should  worship  is  the  substance  of 
the  first  of  the  Ten  Commandments. 
"Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before 
me."  (Exod.  20:3.) 

What  is  new  and  distinctive  in  this 
modern  scripture  is  the  knowledge 
claimed  by  Joseph  Smith  for  himself  and 
for  them  for  whom  he  spoke.  ".  .  .  we 
know,"  said  he,  "that  there  is  a  God  in 
heaven.  .  .  ."   (D&C  20:17.  Italics 


added.)  In  making  this  declaration  the 
Prophet  spoke  from  personal  experience. 

Jesus  Speaks  of  God,  His  Father 

Jesus  had  described  God  when  he  said 
to  Philip,  ".  .  .  he  that  hath  seen  me 
hath  seen  the  Father"  (John  14:9),  and 
Paul  confirmed  this  truth  when  he  wrote 
to  the  Hebrews  that  Jesus  was  the  express 
image  of  his  Father's  person.  (See  Heb. 
1:3.)  The  voice  of  God  had  been  heard 
at  the  baptism  of  Jesus.  It  had  also  been 
heard  by  Peter,  James,  and  John  on  the 
Mount  of  Transfiguration.  But  it  re- 
mained for  the  boy  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  to  both  see  and  hear  him  at  the 
same  time.  This  he  did  in  the  great  vision 
which  opened  this  last  dispensation. 

About  the  living  and  true  God  whom 
he  saw  and  heard  in  that  vision  he 
wrote: 

"...  I  saw  two  Personages,  whose 
brightness  and  glory  defy  all  description, 
standing  above  me  in  the  air.  One  of 
them  spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by 
name  and  said,  pointing  to  the  other — 
This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!" 
(Joseph  Smith  2:17.) 

Later  the  Prophet  said  of  these  two 
personages:  "The  Father  has  a  body  of 
flesh  and  bones  as  tangible  as  man's; 
the  Son  also;  .  .  ."  (D&C  130:22.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  learned 
that  the  Father,  whom  he  saw  in  the 
Sacred  Grove  at  Palmyra,  New  York, 
in  the  spring  of  1820,  and  of  whom  he 
claimed  such  certain  knowledge  in  1830, 
is  the  Father  of  the  spirits  of  all  men. 
This  was  made  known  to  him  in  a  reve- 
lation in  which  the  Lord  said  that  the 
inhabitants  of  the  worlds,  including  this 
earth,  ".  .  .  are  begotten  sons  and  daugh- 
ters unto  God."  (Ibid.,  76:24.)  Through 
this  and  other  modern  revelation  Joseph 
came  to  fully  comprehend  what  Paul 
was  talking  about  when  he  said  to  the 
Hebrews:  ".  .  .  we  have  had  fathers  of 
our  flesh  which  corrected  us,  and  we 
gave  them  reverence:  shall  we  not  much 
rather  be  in  subjection  unto  the  Father 
of  spirits,  and  live?"  (Heb.  12:9.) 

Knowledge  of  God 

Through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 

This  knowledge  of  God  opened  up  to 
Joseph  Smith,  as  it  does  to  all  of  us,  a 
vision  with  infinite  promise.  We  all 


50 

Saturday,  October  3 

know  that  like  begets  like  and  that  for 
the  offspring  to  grow  to  the  stature 
of  his  parent  is  a  process  infinitely  re- 
peated in  nature.  We  can  therefore 
understand  that  for  a  son  of  God  to  grow 
to  the  likeness  of  his  Father  in  heaven 
is  in  harmony  with  natural  law.  We  see 
this  law  demonstrated  every  few  years 
in  our  own  experience.  Sons  born  to 
mortal  fathers  grow  up  to  be  like  their 
fathers  in  the  flesh.  This  is  the  way  it 
will  be  with  spirit  sons  of  God.  They 
will  grow  up  to  be  like  their  Father  in 
heaven.  Joseph  taught  this  obvious  truth. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  he  taught  that 
through  this  process  God  himself  at- 
tained perfection.  From  President  Snow's 
understanding  of  the  teachings  of  the 
Prophet  on  this  doctrinal  point,  he 
coined  the  familiar  couplet:  "As  man  is, 
God  once  was;  as  God  is,  man  may  be- 
come." This  teaching  is  peculiar  to  the 
restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  considered  a 
knowledge  of  God  to  be  of  such  impor- 
tance that,  in  setting  forth  the  beliefs  of 
the  Church,  he  placed  it  at  the  head  of 
the  list— "We  believe  in  God,  the  Eter- 
nal Father, . . ."  (Articles  of  Faith.) 

One  with  such  a  knowledge  is  in  the 
way  of  eternal  life,  for,  according  to  the 
teachings  of  Jesus,  ".  .  .  this  is  life 
eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the 
only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:3.)  Having 
such  knowledge,  one  is  assured  that  God, 
although  infinite  and  eternal,  the  fram- 
er  of  heavens  and  the  earth  and  all 
things  that  in  them  are,  being  the  pos- 
sessor of  all  power,  all  wisdom,  and  all 
understanding,  being  more  intelligent 
than  all  other  beings,  is,  nevertheless, 
an  individual — an  understanding,  kind, 
and  loving  parent  ready  to  hear  and 
minister  to  the  needs  of  his  children — 
that  he  is  not  merely  some  unthinkable, 
unknowable,  indefinable,  far-off,  distant 
force.  When  one  with  such  a  knowledge 
prays,  he  knows  that  he  is  praying  to 
some  one  and  not  just  to  some  thing. 

For  Want  of  Knowledge  of  God 
the  World  is  Dying 

For  want  of  a  knowledge  of  the  true 
and  living  God,  this  world  is  today 
dying.  And  please  do  not  be  deceived. 
Such  a  knowledge  is  not  widespread.  It 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

is  true  that,  in  their  great  concern  about 
world  conditions,  men  are  almost  fran- 
tically proclaiming  from  the  pulpit, 
the  platform,  over  the  air,  and  through 
the  press  that  a  return  to  God  is  the 
only  way  out  of  our  difficulties.  The 
tragedy  is  their  cries,  like  Paul's  trumpet 
of  uncertain  sound,  are  unheeded.  Now 
the  obvious  reason  is  that  neither  the 
trumpeters  nor  the  hearers  know  the 
God  to  whom  we  must  return.  They  use 
the  familiar  term  with  which  we  are 
all  so  well  acquainted.  But  when  they 
attempt  to  define  the  God  to  whom  they 
would  have  us  return,  they  reveal  a 
woeful  lack  of  knowledge  concerning 
the  living  and  true  God.  Frequently  they 
actually  deny  him. 

As  of  Old 

The  present  world  situation  is  not 
unlike  that  which  prevailed  in  Athens, 
as  portrayed  in  Paul's  great  sermon 
preached  on  Mars'  hill.  As  he  stood 
there,  his  spirit  stirring  within  him  as  he 
beheld  the  city  given  wholly  to  idolatry, 
he  cried: 

". .  .  Ye  men  of  Athens,  I  perceive  that 
in  all  things  ye  are  too  superstitious. 

"For  as  I  passed  by,  and  beheld  your 
devotion,  I  found  an  altar  with  this 
inscription,  To  the  Unknown  God. 
Whom  therefore  ye  ignorantly  worship, 
him  declare  I  unto  you."  (Acts  17:22-23.) 

Following  this  poignant  but  deserved 
thrust,  Paul  declared  that  God  had  made 
the  world  and  all  things  therein  and  was 
therefore  Lord  of  heaven  and  earth,  that 
both  he  (Paul)  and  his  hearers  were  the 
offspring  of  God,  in  whom  they  lived 
and  moved  and  had  their  being. 

To  us  it  seems  almost  incredible  that 
in  Paul's  day  inen  could  have  believed 
that  graven  jjjlages  of  gold  or  silver  or 
stone  fashioned  by  men's  device  were 
gods.  And  yet,  the  evidence  indicates 
that  many  today  are  as  far  afield  in  their 
concepts  and  belief  in  God  as  were  the 
Athenian  philosophers  and  populace  in 
that  day  so  long  ago  when  Paul  chided 
them  on  Mars'  hill  about  worshiping  a 
god  whom  they  admittedly  did  not  know; 
for  instance  (and  now  I  cite  these  ex- 
amples not  by  way  of  contention  but  to 
illustrate  how  the  concepts  of  men  of  the 
world  differ  from  the  true  concepts  of 
the  living  and  true  God),  in  a  modem 


ELDER  MARK 

book  an  eminent  scientist,  whose  purpose 
is  altogether  commendable,  wrote  the 
book  to  prove  that  there  is  a  God  and  in 
that  book  appears  this  statement: 

"Any  effort  to  visualize  God  reveals 
a  surprising  childishness.  We  can  no 
more  conceive  Him  than  we  can  con- 
ceive an  electron."  (Lecomte  de  Nouy, 
Human  Destiny,  p.  188.) 

And  then  to  account  for  the  birth  and 
development  of  moral  man,  the  author 
says  that  he  was  forced,  and  I  quote,  to 
admit  "that  the  only  possible  logical 
interpretation  of  the  facts  coincided  with 
that  which  recognized  the  existence  of 
God;  .  .  .  We  therefore,"  I  continue  to 
quote,  "used  the  consecrated  name 
(God),  but  avoided  as  much  as  possible 
any  anthropomorphic  idea."  (Ibid.,  pp. 
201-202.) 

Another  writer  says  this:  "Man  makes 
God  in  his  own  image.  .  .  .  When  man 
believes  that  God  is  personal,"  he  says, 
"he  believes  rightly.  [But]  to  say  that 
God  is  'a  person'  is  no  doubt  an  error." 
(Maude  Royden,  The  Garvin  Lectures, 
1949,  p.  45.) 

These  statements  indicate  that  their 
authors  and  those  who  hold  their  views 
neither  know  nor  believe  in  the  living 
and  true  God  preached  by  Paul  and 
Joseph  Smith.  Is  it  not  a  great  tragedy 
for  men  today  to  be  walking  in  such 
darkness  when  they  might  be  walking  in 
the  light  if  they  would  but  look  and 
see?  This  situation  brings  to  mind  the 
Savior's  statement:  "The  light  shineth 
in  darkness,  and  the  darkness  compre- 
hendeth  it  not; . .  ."  (D&G  88:49.) 

In  connection  with  this  statement  the 
Lord  adds  another  phrase  which  I  love. 
".  .  .  nevertheless,"  he  says,  "the  day 
shall  come  when  you  shall  comprehend 
even  God,  being  quickened  in  him  and 
by  him."  (Idem.) 

The  Transforming  Power 
of  Knowledge  of  God 

This  world  would  be,  comparatively, 
a  heaven  if  men  could  be  brought  to 
understand  and  know  the  living  and 
true  God.  They  who  are  able  to  receive 
and  who  do  receive  the  restored  truth 
concerning  God  are  literally  transformed 
by  their  knowledge  of,  and  faith  in,  him. 
They  are  drawn  upward  from  the  carnal 
state  of  fallen  man,  as  it  were,  and 


V  G.  ROMNEY  51 

brought  back,  to  a  degree  at  least,  into 
the  presence  of  God.  They  develop  un- 
shakable faith  in  him.  They  seek  him 
with  certain  confidence.  They  put  then- 
trust  in  him,  and  he  never  fails  them. 
In  him  are  their  hope  and  their  strength. 
Envy,  greed,  hate,  lust,  and  unrighteous 
ambition  flee  from  them.  They  grow  in 
virtue,  patience,  brotherly  kindness, 
charity,  and  love,  and  their  eyes  are 
single  to  the  glory  of  God.  The  principal 
objective  in  their  lives  becomes  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  thus  ridding 
themselves  of  sin,  for  they  realize  that 
no  unclean  thing  can  enter  into  his 
presence;  and  to  return  into  that  pres- 
ence becomes  the  supreme  faith  and 
hope  of  their  existence. 

Into  their  hearts  comes  a  great  concern 
for  the  welfare  of  their  fellow  men.  They 
set  about  not  to  conquer  them,  not  to 
take  advantage  of  them,  not  to  gain 
temporal  and  worldly  power  at  their 
expense,  but  to  take  to  them  the  glorious 
knowledge  of  the  living  and  true  God 
which  they  themselves  possess.  This  they 
do  that  their  fellows  may  experience  and 
enjoy  the  transformation  which  has 
come  into  their  lives. 

There  is  nothing  other  than  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  living  and  true  God  which 
will  give  men  incentives  strong  enough 
to  induce  them  to  root  out  of  their  lives 
the  wickedness  which  has  brought  us  to 
the  brink  of  the  cataclysm  on  which  we 
totter. 

God's  Revelations  of  Himself 

Earnest  attention  to  God's  revelations 
of  himself  is  of  first  importance  to  every 
human  being.  To  disbelieve  in  him,  in 
the  light  of  the  plain  and  certain  knowl- 
edge he  has  revealed  of  himself  and 
which  is  available  to  us,  is  a  great  evil 
for  which  men  will  be  held  accountable. 
Full  acceptance  of  him  would  work  in 
every  man  the  same  transformation  it 
worked  in  the  people  of  Enoch,  in  Saul 
of  Tarsus,  in  Alma,  in  Joseph  Smith 
and  his  followers — a  transformation 
which  will  eventually  come  and  which 
will  establish  peace  on  the  earth. 

"I  Personally  Know 
That  There  is  a  God" 

Now,  in  conclusion,  as  a  special  wit- 
ness, I  want  to  leave  my  testimony  with 


52 

Saturday,  October  3 

each  of  you,  and  I  have  in  mind  all  of 
you  who  are  present  and  you  who  are 
beyond  the  confines  of  this  building.  I 
personally  know  ".  .  .  that  there  is  a 
God  in  heaven,  who  is  infinite  and 
eternal,  .  .  .  that  he  created  man,  male 
and  female,  after  his  own  image  and  in 
his  own  likeness  .  .  .  ";  that  in  these 
latter  days  he  has  revealed  himself 
anew;  and  that  he  is  ". .  .  the  only  living 
and  true  God,  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  20:17-19.) 

"By  the  Witness  of  the  Holy  Spirit" 

I  have  obtained  this  knowledge  and 
testimony  through  the  same  means  that 
Peter,  Paul,  Joseph  Smith,  and  tens  of 
thousands  of  others  have  received  it — 
by  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  my 
soul.  I  testify  to  each  of  you  that  you  can 
obtain  like  knowledge  and  testimony 
for  your  individual  selves  if  you  will  but 
humble  yourselves  and  in  faith  and  sin- 
cere prayer  seek  it. 

We  are  all  the  children  of  our  Father 
in  heaven.  It  is  inherent  in  our  beings  to 
have  faith  in  him,  to  believe  that  he  is. 
It  was  this  kind  of  faith  that  prompted 
Joseph  Smith,  acting  upon  the  assurance 
of  James — "if  any  of  you  lack  wisdom, 
let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all 
men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

it  shall  be  given  him."  (James  1:5.)  It 
was  this  that  led  the  Prophet  to  seek 
wisdom  in  prayer.  As  a  result  he  received 
a  revelation  in  which  the  living  and  true 
God  appeared  to  him.  He  received  that 
revelation  not  just  for  himself  alone  but 
for  you  and  for  me  and  for  every  living 
soul  in  this  earth. 

God  has  not  left  us  to  grope  in  dark- 
ness. His  words  do  not  fail.  If  we  will 
but  ask  him  in  sincerity  and  faith,  he 
will  make  known  to  each  of  us  the 
reality  of  himself.  We  can,  if  we  will 
submit  to  his  spirit,  know  for  a  certainty 
that  he  is  the  true  and  the  living  God. 

As  one  of  the  least  of  his  humble 
servants,  I  bear  this  witness  to  you  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

There  will  be  a  brief  organ  interlude, 
and  then  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
congregation  will  join  in  singing  "Guide 
Us,  O  Thou  Great  Jehovah,"  after  which 
Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  speak  to  us. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Thorpe 
B.  Isaacson,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters  and  friends, 
as  always  I  deeply  need  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord,  and  may  I  please  plead  with 
you  to  have  a  silent  prayer  in  your  heart 
for  me. 

This  great  choir  always  touches  us  and 
lifts  us  up — a  great  credit  to  the  Church. 
Many  millions  every  weekend  enjoy 
their  beautiful  music.  It  would  be  diffi- 
cult to  tell  how  many  lives  they  have 
truly  affected. 

We  miss  President  McKay  very  much, 
but  I  know  we  have  his  blessings  and 
his  prayers  and  his  support.  He  has 
taught  us  very  well.  Those  of  us  here 
assembled  and  those  following  the  con- 
ference by  radio  and  television  greatly 
appreciate  his  leadership  and  his  ex- 
ample. Yes,  we  recognize  him  as  a 
prophet  of  God.  Truly,  there  is  a  proph- 


et on  the  earth.  There  is  a  prophet  in  our 
midst,  and  we  pray  for  his  well-being. 

American  Citizenship 

I  ask  each  of  you  now  to  consider 
with  me  for  a  few  moments  one  of  our 
most  precious  possessions — our  citizen- 
ship in  the  United  States  of  America, 
this  nation  under  God. 

A  very  fine  man  who  came  to  the 
United  States  a  few  years  ago  from  a 
foreign  country  and  who  now  has  his 
citizenship  papers  remarked  to  me  that 
next  to  God  and  his  loved  ones,  he  con- 
sidered his  citizenship  in  the  United 
States  as  his  most  precious  and  priceless 
possession.  Yes,  his  most  precious  and 
priceless  possession!  He  said  he  loved  the 
United  States  and  was  grateful  for  the 
freedom  that  it  afforded  him,  because, 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


53 


you  see,  he  had  lived  in  a  country  where 
he  did  not  know  that  freedom.  When  he 
said  that  he  loved  the  United  States 
and  that  he  thanked  God  for  his  citizen- 
ship in  this  country,  he  said  it  with  every 
fiber  of  his  soul.  He  said  he  would  fight 
for  this  country  and  this  freedom,  even 
if  it  meant  his  own  life.  He  said  that 
every  citizen  of  the  United  States  ought 
to  feel  that  way;  and  if  he  did  feel  that 
way,  talked  that  way,  and  loved  that 
way,  we  would  have  no  problem  from 
within  and  no  fear  from  without.  Yes, 
this  nation  under  God  means  exactly 
what  it  says. 

Let  me  quote  from  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants: 

"Let  no  man  break  the  laws  of  the 
land,  for  he  that  keepeth  the  laws  of 
God  hath  no  need  to  break  the  laws  of 
the  land."  (D&C  58:21.) 

The  Constitution  an 
Inspired  Document 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
is  a  document  from  inspired  men.  On 
August  6,  1833,  the  Church  received  a 
revelation  that  has  gone  far  to  establish 
a  fixed  attitude  toward  the  Constitution 
and  laws  of  the  United  States.  Then 
came  the  word  of  the  Lord: 

"And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you  con- 
cerning the  laws  of  the  land,  it  is  my 
will  that  my  people  should  observe  to 
do  all  things  whatsoever  I  command 
them."  (Ibid.,  98:4.) 

On  December  16  of  the  same  year  the 
Lord  again  made  it  known  to  his  people 
that  the  law  should  not  be  taken  into 
their  own  hands,  and  that  ".  .  .  it  is 
not  right  that  any  man  should  be  in 
bondage  one  to  another."  (Ibid.,  101:79.) 

Man  could  not  so  act  save  he  live  in 
a  land  of  law,  for  only  in  a  land  of  law 
can  there  be  freedom  as  we  know  it. 

"And  for  this  purpose  have  I  estab- 
lished the  Constitution  of  this  land,  by 
the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up 
unto  this  very  purpose,  and  redeemed 
the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood." 
(Ibid.,  101:80.) 

This  revelation  has  a  powerful  influ- 
ence in  shaping  the  views  of  Latter-day 
Saints  toward  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States,  and  it  should  also  have 
a  great  influence  on  every  citizen,  for 
the  Lord  suffered  it  to  be  by  the  hands 
of  wise  men. 


Section  134  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants declares  the  need  for  civil  gov- 
ernments and  the  necessity  that  we 
honor  and  uphold  such  governments. 

"We  believe  that  governments  were 
instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit  of  man; 
and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for 
their  acts  in  relation  to  them,  both  in 
making  laws  and  administering  them, 
for  the  good  and  safety  of  society. 

"We  believe  that  no  government  can 
exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws  are 
framed  and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure 
to  each  individual  the  free  exercise  of 
conscience,  the  right  and  control  of 
property,  and  the  protection  of  life. 

"We  believe  that  all  governments 
necessarily  require  civil  officers  and 
magistrates  to  enforce  the  laws  of  the 
same;  .  .  . 

"We  believe  that  religion  is  instituted 
of  God;  and  that  men  are  amenable  to 
him,  and  to  him  only,  for  the  exercise  of 
it,  .  .  .  but  we  do  not  believe  that  human 
law  has  a  right  to  interfere  in  prescrib- 
ing rules  of  worship  to  bind  the  con- 
sciences of  men,  nor  dictate  forms  for 
public  or  private  devotion;  that  the  civil 
magistrate  should  restrain  crime,  but 
never  control  conscience;  should  punish 
guilt,  but  never  suppress  the  freedom  of 
the  soul. 

"We  believe  that  all  men  are  bound  to 
sustain  and  uphold  the  respective  gov- 
ernments in  which  they  reside,  while 
protected  in  their  inherent  and  inalien- 
able rights  by  the  laws  of  such  govern- 
ments; and  that  sedition  and  rebellion 
are  unbecoming  every  citizen  thus  pro- 
tected, and  should  be  punished  accord- 
ingly; and  that  all  governments  have  a 
right  to  enact  such  laws  as  in  their  own 
judgments  are  best  calculated  to  secure 
the  public  interest;  at  the  same  time, 
however,  holding  sacred  the  freedom 
of  conscience."  (Ibid.,  134:1-5.) 

Government  of  Laws 

One  of  our  great  United  States  Sena- 
tors had  this  to  say  regarding  the  laws 
of  the  land: 

"It  is  a  form  of  anarchy  to  say  that  a 
person  need  not  comply  with  a  particu- 
lar statute  with  which  he  disagrees.  Ours 
is  a  government  of  laws,  not  men,  and 
our  system  cannot  tolerate  the  philos- 
ophy that  obedience  to  law  rests  on 
the  personal  likes  or  dislikes  of  any 


54 

Saturday,  October  3 

individual  citizen  whether  he  supports 
or  opposes  the  statute  in  question." 
(Senator  Richard  Russell  of  Georgia.) 

Now  quoting  from  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  again:  "I,  the  Lord  God, 
make  you  free,  therefore  ye  are  free  in- 
deed; and  the  law  also  maketh  you  free." 
(D&C  98:8.)  Note  the  stress  constantly 
placed  on  the  word  free. 

"Wherefore,  honest  men  and  wise 
men  should  be  sought  for  diligently, 
and  good  men  and  wise  men  ye  should 
observe  to  uphold;  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  98:10.) 

This  nation  under  God  cannot  con- 
done communism  in  the  least  degree. 
There  is  not  such  a  thing  as  "a  little 
communism."  It  is  the  greatest  threat 
to  America  today.  Belief  in  God  is  the 
foundation  of  America.  Oh,  how  proud 
we  should  be  of  our  Pilgrims,  Puritans, 
and  pioneers.  It  was  their  belief  in  God 
that  drove  them  forward,  for  without 
that  faith  and  that  belief  they  could  not 
have  continued. 

One  Nation  Under  God 

One  great  man  recently  dreamed  of 
a  country  where  there  would  be  no 
north,  no  south,  no  east,  and  no  west, 
but  where  all  would  be  united  in  the 
country,  where  the  principles  would  be 
for  the  benefit  of  all  the  people. 

Recently,  there  was  published  the  fol- 
lowing editorial  in  the  Deseret  News, 
and  I  quote: 

"This  nation's  reliance  on  a  Supreme 
Being  has  been  acknowledged  in  such 
historical  documents  as  the  Mayflower 
Compact  and  the  Declaration  of  Inde- 
pendence. Lincoln's  Gettysburg  Address, 
our  National  Anthem,  and  the  consti- 
tutions of  49  of  our  50  states  all  in- 
cluded direct  reference  to  God. 

"More  recently  the  words  'under  God' 
have  been  added  to  our  Pledge  of  Alle- 
giance. 

"Now  there  is  a  proposal  before  Con- 
gress to  acknowledge  the  divine  guidance 
of  our  nation's  Constitution  by  adding 
these  same  words — 'under  God' — to  its 
preamble.  This  would  be  a  proper 
change. 

"Lately  there  has  been  altogether  too 
much  talk  about  eliminating  any  refer- 
ence to  deity  from  our  public  life.  Those 
who  support  this  notion  have  received 
considerable  encouragement  from  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

recent  United  States  Supreme  Court 
rulings  against  Bible  reading  and  the 
use  of  the  Lord's  Prayer  in  public 
schools. 

"But  this  must  not  be  allowed  to  make 
us  forget  that  we  are  a  nation  under  God 
and  a  nation  founded  on  vital  Christian 
principles.  Indeed  some  2500  years  ago  a 
prophet  declared  that  America  will  re- 
main free  and  prosperous  only  so  long 
as  its  people  are  righteous. . . . 

"Adding  'under  God'  to  the  preamble 
to  the  Constitution  would  be  a  fitting 
reminder  of  the  need  of  spirituality  in 
our  public  affairs."  (Editorial  entitled 
"One  Nation  under  God,"  Deseret  News, 
August  29,  1964.) 

Communism  does  not  so  agree,  and 
therefore  we  cannot  accept  communism 
in  any  degree.  This  is  no  doubt  the  feel- 
ing of  representatives  and  candidates  of 
both  major  political  parties  in  this 
country.  They  feel  the  same  way.  Com- 
munism has  caused  us  a  great  deal  of 
anxiety  and  concern,  and  today  it  is 
the  greatest  threat  facing  the  world. 
We  cannot  accept  or  uphold  communism 
in  any  degree,  shape,  way,  or  form. 

"Our  nation  was  founded  by  bold  and 
brave  men  who  were  unafraid  to  speak 
out."  We  should  not  forget  that  those 
men  were  raised  up  by  God  himself  at 
that  time  to  perform  this  great  service, 
which  has  proved  to  be  such  a  bulwark 
of  strength  to  this  country."  We  should 
not  forget  that  those  men  who  signed  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  were  by 
that  act  endangering  their  property  and 
even  their  lives.  .  .  . 

"I  often  wonder  what  has  become  of 
the  great  voices  of  our  Judeo-Christian 
tradition — voices  like  those  of  Jeremiah 
and  Ezzekiel,  Daniel  and  Micah,  who 
fearlessly  assailed  national  evils — and 
specifically,  not  in  generalities.  Voices 
like  that  of  Nathan,  who  condemned  a 
king's  wrongdoing  to  his  face.  Voices  like 
that  of  John  the  Baptist,  who  denounced 
the  immorality  and  corruption  of  a  royal 
court,  even  though  he  knew  it  might  cost 
him  his  head. 

"Christianity  grew  because  its  adher- 
ents were  not  silent.  .  .  ." 

Perhaps  we  as  Americans  might  ask 
ourselves  whether  we  are  displaying 
moral  courage  equal  to  the  crying  con- 
dition of  today.  "The  world  is  changed 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


55 


by  those  like  Martin  Luther,  who  cried, 
'Here  I  stand.  I  can  do  no  other.' 

"The  power  to  speak  out  is  ours  for  the 
taking.  The  same  Simon  Peter  who 
cringed  before  the  servant  girl's  accusa- 
tions that  he  was  one  of  Christ's  dis- 
ciples later  became  one  of  those  who,  the 
record  says,  'turned  the  world  upside 
down.' "  ("A  Time  for  Moral  Courage," 
Billy  Graham.  Reader's  Digest,  July 
1964,  p.  49.) 

"A  Land  Choice  Above  All  Others" 

Now  quoting  from  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon: 

"For  behold,  this  is  a  land  which  is 
choice  above  all  other  lands;  wherefore 
he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve  God 
or  shall  be  swept  off;  for  it  is  the  ever- 
lasting decree  of  God.  And  it  is  not 
until  the  fulness  of  iniquity  among  the 
children  of  the  land,  that  they  are 
swept  off. 

"Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and 
whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  [Lis- 
ten to  this  promise]  shall  be  free  from 
bondage,  and  from  captivity,  and  from 
all  other  nations  under  heaven,  if  they 
will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land,  who 
is  Jesus  Christ,  who  hath  been  mani- 
fested by  the  things  which  we  have 
written."  (Ether  2:10,  12.) 

"And  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of 
liberty  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  there 
shall  be  no  kings  upon  the  land,  who 
shall  raise  up  unto  the  Gentiles. 

"And  I  will  fortify  this  land  against 
all  other  nations."  (2  Nephi  10:11-12.) 

Take  note  of  that  promise.  That  is 
why  we  cannot  accept  communism. 

Quoting  again  from  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon: 

'  "And  he  that  fighteth  against  Zion 
shall  perish,  saith  God. 

"For  he  that  raiseth  up  a  king  against 
me  shall  perish,  for  I,  the  Lord,  the  king 
of  heaven,  will  be  their  king,  and  I  will 
be  a  light  unto  them  forever,  that  hear 
my  words."  (Ibid.,  10:13-14.) 

In  the  Declaration  of  Independence 
our  founding  fathers  deliberately  speci- 
fied why  we  as  individuals  have  rights: 

"We  hold  these  truths  to  be  self- 
evident,  that  all  men  are  created  equal; 
that  they  are  endowed  by  their  Creator 
with  certain  unalienable  rights;  that 
among  these  are  life,  liberty,  and  the 
pursuit  of  happiness." 


Powers  of  Government  from  the 
Consent  of  the  Governed 

Based  on  the  concept  that  rights  of 
every  individual  man,  woman,  and  child 
on  the  face  of  the  earth  come  from  God, 
not  from  the  state,  they  enunciated  that 
the  purpose  of  government  is  to  protect 
the  God-given  rights  of  the  human 
being.  (Not  governments  as  masters,  but 
governments  as  servants.) 

Shortly  after  the  Constitution  was 
signed  in  Independence  Hall,  Philadel- 
phia, September  17,  1787,  a  woman 
asked  Benjamin  Franklin: 

"What  have  we  got,  Dr.  Franklin?" 

He  replied,  "Madam,  we  have  a  re- 
public." Then  he  hesitated  and  said,  "If 
we  can  keep  it." 

We  speak  of  peace.  "Peace  is  God  on 
both  sides  of  the  table  in  a  conference. 
It  is  putting  the  power  of  good  will  to 
work.  It  is  sanity,  maturity,  and  common 
sense  in  human  relationships.  It  is  pa- 
tience. It  means  keeping  our  tempers 
and  rising  above  petty  irritations.  .  .  . 
It  is  a  mighty  faith  in  the  goodness  of 
God  and  the  potential  greatness  of  man." 
(The  New  Book  of  the  Art  of  Living, 
"The  Art  of  Peace.")* 

Here  is  a  creed  that  perhaps  every  one 
of  us  might  adopt. 

An  American's  Creed 

We  believe  in  the  United  States  of 
America  without  reservations.  This  na- 
tion under  God  is  my  home,  my  country, 
my  hope,  and  my  concern.  Here  I  work 
and  rest  and  pray,  and  here  I  build  and 
dream.  Here  my  toil  is  rewarded  by  an 
unmatched  abundance  for  my  well- 
being.  Here  I  have  freedom  to  live,  to 
think,  to  worship.  That  freedom  is  mine 
yet,  guaranteed  by  the  law  in  this  na- 
tion under  God.  Here  I  am  a  part  of  the 
government,  able  to  vote,  to  serve,  and 
to  carry  my  share  of  the  common  load. 

God  grant  us  wisdom  and  strength  to 
safeguard  our  country's  welfare  and  to 
develop  a  devotion  to  measure  up  to  this 
country's  greatness. 

God  bless  America.  May  we  live  in 
such  a  way  that  next  to  God  and  our 
loved  ones,  as  my  good  friend  said  to 
me,  this  country,  this  nation  under  God, 
will  be  nearer  and  dearer  to  us,  I  humbly 


56 

Saturday,  October  3 

pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


•Permission  granted  by  WilFerd  A.  Peterson  and 
Simon  and  Schuster,  title  from  above,  copyright  1963. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  last  two  speakers  were  Elder 
Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Council  of  the 


Second  Day 

Twelve,  and  Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing,  "How  Ex- 
cellent Thy  Name,"  after  which  there 
will  be  a  short  organ  interlude,  and  then 
we  shall  be  glad  to  hear  from  Elder 
Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  who  is  presently  serving  as 
president  of  the  European  Mission. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Some  years  ago  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  warned 
that  "There  are  at  least  three  dangers 
that  threaten  the  Church  within.  .  .  ." 
(Gospel  Doctrine,  p.  312.)  He  also  coun- 
seled the  Authorities  of  the  Church  to 
warn  the  people  unceasingly  against 
them. 

These  dangers  are: 

Flattery  of  prominent  men  in  the 
world, 

False  educational  ideas, 

Sexual  impurity. 

I  should  like  to  comment  briefly  on 
these  three  dangers. 

Flattery 

First,  the  flattery  of  prominent  men  in 
the  world: 

The  Master  warned,  "Woe  unto  you, 
when  all  men  shall  speak  well  of  you!" 
(Luke  6:26.) 

As  Latter-day  Saints  we  have  been 
driven,  mobbed,  misunderstood,  and 
maligned.  We  have  been  a  peculiar 
people.  Now  we  are  faced  with  world 
applause.  It  has  been  a  welcome  change, 
but  can  we  stand  acceptance?  Can  we 
meet  the  danger  of  applause?  In  the 
hour  of  a  man's  success  applause  can  be 
his  greatest  danger. 

There  is,  of  course,  nothing  wrong 
with  being  honored  by  men,  if  one  is 
being  honored  for  a  good  thing,  if  one 
comes  to  these  honors  through  righteous 
living,  and  if,  while  holding  these  hon- 
ors, one  lives  honorably.  One  should 
strive  to  have  wide  influence  for  good. 

However,  virtue  is  not  the  only  basis 
for  being  singled  out  and  promoted.  As 
the  world  gets  more  wicked,  a  possible 
way  to  attain  worldly  success  may  be  to 
join  the  wicked.  The  time  is  fast  ap- 


proaching when  it  will  require  great 
courage  for  Latter-day  Saints  to  stand 
up  for  their  peculiar  standards  and  doc- 
trine— all  of  their  doctrine,  including 
the  more  weighty  principles  such  as  the 
principle  of  freedom.  Opposition  to  this 
weighty  principle  of  freedom  caused 
many  of  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  the 
pre-existence  to  lose  their  first  estate  in 
the  war  in  heaven. 

We  are  far  removed  from  the  days  of 
our  forefathers  who  were  persecuted  for 
their  peculiar  beliefs.  Some  of  us  seem 
to  want  to  share  their  reward  but  are 
ofttimes  afraid  to  stand  up  for  principles 
that  are  controversial  in  our  generation. 
We  need  not  solicit  persecution,  but 
neither  should  we  remain  silent  in  the 
presence  of  overwhelming  evils,  for  this 
makes  cowards  of  men.  We  should  not 
go  out  of  the  path  of  duty  to  pick  up  a 
cross  there  is  no  need  to  bear,  but  neither 
should  we  sidestep  a  cross  that  clearly 
lies  within  the  path  of  duty. 

We  are  in  the  world,  and  I  fear  some 
of  us  are  getting  too  much  like  the 
world.  Rather  than  continue  a  peculiar 
people,  some  are  priding  themselves  on 
how  much  they  are  like  everybody  else, 
when  the  world  is  getting  more  wicked. 
The  Lord,  as  he  prayed  for  his  Apostles, 
said,  ".  .  .  the  world  hath  hated  them, 
because  they  are  not  of  the  world,  even 
as  I  am  not  of  the  world."  (John  17:14.) 
As  Latter-day  Saints,  we  too  have  been 
called  out  of  the  world. 

Some  things  are  changeless — priceless. 
We  must  anchor  ourselves  to  the  eternal 
verities  of  life,  for  life  is  eternal.  The 
honors  of  men  more  often  than  not  are 
fleeting.  Anxious  to  run  after  the  honors 
of  office  or  succumb  to  the  pressures  of 
public  glamor  and  worldly  acclaim, 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


57 


some  of  us  are  no  longer  willing  to 
stand  up  for  all  the  principles  of  the 
gospel.  We  seek  to  justify  our  unright- 
eousness by  claiming  that  if  only  we  can 
get  title  or  position,  then  think  of  the 
good  we  can  do.  Hence  we  lose  our 
salvation  en  route  to  those  honors.  We 
sometimes  look  among  our  numbers  to 
find  one  to  whom  we  can  point  who 
agrees  with  us,  so  we  can  have  company 
to  justify  our  apostasy.  We  rationalize  by 
saying  that  some  day  the  church  doctrine 
will  catch  up  with  our  way  of  thinking. 

Seeking  the  applause  of  the  world,  we 
like  to  be  honored  by  the  men  the  world 
honors.  But  therein  lies  real  danger,  for 
ofttimes,  in  order  to  receive  those  honors, 
we  must  join  forces  with  and  follow 
those  same  devilish  influences  and 
policies  which  brought  some  of  those 
men  to  positions  of  prominence. 

More  and  more  the  honors  of  this 
world  are  being  promoted  by  the  wicked 
for  the  wicked.  We  see  this  in  publicity 
and  awards  that  are  given  to  movies, 
literature,  art,  journalism,  etc.  We  see 
in  our  own  newspapers  widely  read 
columnists  carried  who  advocate  one- 
world  socialism,  who  have  been  consis- 
tently caught  in  falsehoods,  and  who 
continually  parrot  the  communist  line. 
Less  and  less  we  see  the  virtuous  re- 
warded by  the  world,  and  when  they  are, 
ofttimes  it  almost  seems  to  be  done  in- 
sidiously in  order  to  get  us  to  swallow 
the  many  evils  for  which  the  wicked 
are  even  more  profusely  honored. 

Yes,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  was 
right.  Today  we  are  being  plagued  with- 
in by  the  flattery  of  prominent  men  in 
the  world. 

False  Educational  Ideas 

Second,  false  educational  ideas: 
During  the  past  several  years  many 
of  our  institutions  of  learning  have  been 
turning  out  an  increasing  number  of  stu- 
dents schooled  in  amorality,  relativity, 
and  atheism — students  divested  of  a 
belief  in  God,  without  fixed  moral  prin- 
ciples or  an  understanding  of  our  con- 
stitutional republic  and  our  capitalistic, 
free  enterprise  economic  system.  This 
follows  a  pattern  which  was  established 
years  ago  at  some  of  our  key  colleges 
that  produced  many  of  the  teachers  and 
leaders  in  the  educational  field  across 
the  country  today. 


The  fruits  of  this  kind  of  teaching 
have  been  tragic,  not  only  to  the  souls 
of  the  individuals  involved  but  also  to 
the  parents  and  even  to  our  country. 
We  saw  these  tragic  fruits  with  some  of 
our  boys  in  Korea. 

When  a  survey  was  recently  made 
among  students  asking  which  they  would 
prefer,  nuclear  war  or  surrender  to  the 
communists,  those  campuses  scored  high- 
est for  surrender  who  had  been  most 
permeated  by  these  cowardly  teachings 
of  false  economic  principles,  atheism, 
and  amorality.  On  one  very  liberal  col- 
lege campus  over  90  percent  favored 
surrender.  Other  surveys  on  moral 
standards  are  equally  alarming.  More 
disturbing  is  the  fact  that  the  more  col- 
lege courses  the  students  take  on  these 
campuses,  the  worse  their  thinking 
seems  to  become.  Freshmen  who  have 
just  left  home  or  work  do  not  seem  as 
fully  permeated  with  the  brainwashing 
as  the  seniors. 

Some  alumni  of  various  schools  have 
expressed  concern.  One  alumnus  from 
Yale  wrote  a  book  a  few  years  ago  enti- 
tled God  and  Man  at  Yale.  Another  group 
(which  includes  Teddy  Roosevelt's  hero 
son  Archibald)  from  Harvard  University 
established  the  Veritas  Foundation 
and  wrote  a  book,  Keynes  at  Harvard, 
explaining  the  degree  to  which  the 
destructive  Fabian  economic  philosophy 
has  permeated  educational  institutions 
and  government.  Concerned  educators 
have  begun  to  write  books.  Professor  E. 
Merrill  Root  authored  Collectivism  on 
the  Campus  and  Brainwashing  in  the 
High  Schools.  Dr.  Max  Rafferty,  now 
state  superintendent  of  schools  in  Cali- 
fornia, wrote  Suffer  Little  Children  and 
What  They  Are  Doing  to  Your  Children. 

In  the  school  history  textbooks  of 
recent  years,  some  of  the  greatest  phrases 
in  American  history  have  been  dropped. 
This  Week  Magazine  recently  surveyed 
history  books  issued  before  1920  and 
since  1920.  Patrick  Henry's  famous 
words,  "Give  me  liberty  or  give  me 
death,"  appeared  in  twelve  out  of  the 
fourteen  earlier  texts,  but  in  only  two 
out  of  the  forty-five  recent  texts.  Per- 
haps this  might  help  explain  the  per- 
centage of  students  who  are  willing  to 
surrender  to  communism. 

The  whole  process  can  be  quite  in- 
sidious. Young  people  know  that  the 


58 

Saturday,  October  3 

best  jobs  are  available  to  college  gradu- 
ates. They  want  to  do  well  at  school. 
When  exam  time  comes,  they  must 
give  back  to  the  teacher  what  the  teacher 
wants.  Now  under  the  guise  of  academic 
freedom — which  some  apparently  feel  is 
freedom  to  destroy  freedom — some  teach- 
ers reserve  to  themselves  the  privilege 
of  teaching  error,  destroying  faith  in 
God,  debunking  morality,  and  depreciat- 
ing our  free  economic  system.  If  ques- 
tions reflecting  the  teacher's  false 
teachings  appear  on  the  exam,  how  will 
the  student  answer  who  believes  in  God 
and  morality  and  our  Constitution?  One 
student  put  on  his  exam  paper  what  he 
knew  the  professor  wanted  to  see,  but 
then  the  student  added  a  little  p.s.  which 
said,  "Dear  Professor  So  and  So:  I  just 
want  you  to  know  I  don't  believe  one 
word  of  what  I  just  wrote  above." 

These  kinds  of  professors  are  not  con- 
cerned about  the  truth  or  even  giving 
both  sides  of  a  question  that  only  has 
one  right  answer.  They  weight  the  scales 
on  the  side  of  falsehood.  If  they  can  see 
there  is  another  side,  it  usually  gets  but 
passing  and  belittling  reference.  To  give 
the  impression  that  they  are  objective, 
these  professors  often  invite  someone  to 
present  a  different  point  of  view  in  one 
lecture,  while  the  professor  spends  the 
whole  semester  pointing  out  the  other 
side. 

Now  truth,  if  given  as  much  time  and 
emphasis  as  error,  will  invariably  prove 
itself.  And  if  our  young  students  could 
have  as  much  time  studying  the  truth 
as  they  and  some  of  their  professors  have 
had  time  studying  error,  then  there 
would  be  no  question  of  the  outcome. 
The  problem  arises  when  under  the  pres- 
sure of  a  heavy  course  of  study  and  the 
necessity  of  parroting  back  what  cer- 
tain professors  have  said,  the  student 
does  not  have  the  time  or  take  the  time 
to  learn  the  truth.  If  he  does  not  learn 
the  truth,  some  day  he  will  suffer  the 
consequences.  Many  an  honest  student, 
after  graduation,  has  had  to  do  some  un- 
learning and  then  fresh  learning  of  basic 
principles  which  never  change  and 
which  he  should  have  been  taught 
initially. 

Now  these  false  educational  ideas  are 
prevalent  in  the  world,  and  we  have 
not  entirely  escaped  them  among  teach- 
ers in  our  own  system.  There  are  a  few 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

teachers  within  the  Church  who  while 
courting  apostasy  still  want  to  remain 
members  in  the  Church,  for  being 
members  makes  them  more  effective  in 
misleading  the  Saints.  But  their  day  of 
judgment  is  coming,  and  when  it  does 
come,  for  some  of  them  it  would  have 
been  better,  as  the  Savior  said,  that  a 
millstone  had  been  put  around  their 
necks  and  they  had  drowned  in  the 
depths  of  the  sea,  than  to  have  led  away 
any  of  the  youth  of  the  Church. 

The  Lord  has  stated  that  his  Church 
will  never  again  be  taken  from  the  earth 
because  of  apostasy.  But  he  has  also 
stated  that  some  members  of  his  Church 
will  fall  away.  There  has  been  indi- 
vidual apostasy  in  the  past,  it  is  going  on 
now,  and  there  will  be  an  even  increas- 
ing amount  in  the  future.  While  we 
cannot  save  all  the  flock  from  being  de- 
ceived, we  should,  without  compromis- 
ing our  doctrine,  strive  to  save  as  many 
as  we  can.  For  as  President  Clark  said, 
"We  are  in  the  midst  of  the  greatest 
exhibition  of  propaganda  that  the  world 
has  ever  seen  .  .  .  ." 

Parents,  stay  close  to  your  children; 
you  cannot  delegate  your  responsibility 
to  the  educators  no  matter  how  compe- 
tent they  may  be.  Parents  have  a  duty  to 
train  their  children,  to  talk  over  their 
problems  with  them,  to  discuss  what 
they  are  learning  at  school.  And  it  is 
neither  wise  nor  safe,  as  President 
Stephen  L  Richards  stated,  to  leave  the 
determination  of  our  educational  system 
and  policies  exclusively  to  the  profes- 
sional educators. 

Students,  study  the  writings  of  the 
prophets.  Fortunately,  the  consistent 
position  taken  over  the  years  by  the 
prophets  of  the  Church  on  vital  issues 
racing  this  nation  have  recently  been 
compiled  in  an  excellent  book  entitled 
Prophets,  Principles  and  National  Sur- 
vival  [by  Jerreld  L.  Newquist]. 

Students,  pray  for  inspiration  and 
knowledge.  Counsel  with  your  parents. 
Let  Sunday  be  the  day  to  fill  up  your 
spiritual  batteries  for  the  week  by  read- 
ing good  church  books,  particularly  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  Take  time  to  meditate. 
Don't  let  the  philosophies  and  false- 
hoods of  men  throw  you.  Hold  on  to  the 
iron  rod.  Learn  to  sift.  Learn  to  discern 
error  through  the  promptings  of  the 
Spirit  and  your  study  of  the  truth. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


59 


Yes,  false  educational  ideas  are  a  seri- 
ous threat  today. 

Immorality 

Third,  sexual  immorality: 

Sexual  immorality  is  a  viper  that  is 
striking  not  only  in  the  world,  but  in 
the  Church  today.  Not  to  admit  it  is 
to  be  dangerously  complacent  or  is  like 
putting  one's  head  in  the  sand.  In  the 
category  of  crimes,  only  murder  and 
denying  the  Holy  Ghost  come  ahead  of 
illicit  sexual  relations,  which  we  call 
fornication  when  it  involves  an  un- 
married person,  or  the  graver  sin  of 
adultery  when  it  involves  one  who  is 
married.  I  know  the  laws  of  the  land  do 
not  consider  unchastity  as  serious  as 
God  does,  nor  punish  as  severely  as  God 
does,  but  that  does  not  change  its 
abominableness.  In  the  eyes  of  God 
there  is  but  one  moral  standard  for  men 
and  women.  In  the  eyes  of  God  chastity 
will  never  be  out  of  date. 

The  natural  desire  for  men  and 
women  to  be  together  is  from  God.  But 
such  association  is  bounded  by  his  laws. 
Those  things  properly  reserved  for  mar- 
riage, when  taken  within  the  bonds  of 
marriage,  are  right  and  pleasing  before 
God  and  fulfil  the  commandment  to 
multiply  and  replenish  the  earth.  But 
those  same  things  when  taken  outside 
the  bonds  of  marriage  are  a  curse. 

No  sin  is  causing  the  loss  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  among  our  people  more  to- 
day than  sexual  promiscuity.  It  is  caus- 
ing our  people  to  stumble,  damning  their 
growth,  darkening  their  spiritual  powers, 
and  making  them  subject  to  other  sins. 

Recently,  a  young  man  commented 
that  if  he  quit  reading  books,  watching 
TV,  seeing  movies,  reading  newspapers 
and  magazines,  and  going  to  school, 
there  was  a  chance  he  might  live  a  clean 
life.  And  this  explains,  in  large  part,  the 
extent  to  which  this  insidious  evil  has 
spread,  for  the  world  treats  this  sin 
flippantly.  These  evil  forces  build  up 
your  lust  and  then  fail  to  tell  of  the 
tragic  consequences.  In  so  many  movies 
the  hero  is  permitted  to  get  away  with 
crime  so  long  as  he  can  joke  about  it, 
or  explain  he  was  powerless  to  do  any- 
thing, or  else  at  the  close  of  the  movie 
show  forth  one  minimal  virtue  that  is 
supposed  to  cover  over  the  grossest  of 


sin.  Many  of  our  prominent  national 
magazines  pander  to  the  baser  side,  but 
then  try  to  cover  for  themselves  by  in- 
cluding other  articles,  too. 

So  garbled  in  values  have  our  morals 
become  that  some  youth  would  not  dare 
touch  a  cigaret  but  freely  engage  in 
petting.  Both  are  wrong,  but  one  is  in- 
finitely more  serious  than  the  other. 

Parents  should  give  their  children 
specific  instructions  on  chastity  at  an 
early  age,  both  for  their  physical  and 
moral  protection.  Years  ago  President 
David  O.  McKay,  God  bless  him,  read  a 
statement  written  by  Mrs.  Wesley  to 
her  famous  son  John.  I  commend  it  to 
you  as  a  basis  for  judgment  pertaining 
to  the  matter  of  chastity.  "Would  you 
judge  of  the  lawfulness  or  unlawfulness 
of  pleasure?  Take  this  rule:  Now  note, 
whatever  weakens  your  reason,  impairs 
the  tenderness  of  your  conscience,  ob- 
scures your  sense  of  God,  takes  off  your 
relish  for  spiritual  things,  whatever  in- 
creases the  authority  of  the  body  over 
the  mind,  that  thing  is  sin  to  you,  how- 
ever innocent  it  may  seem  in  itself." 

Avoid  Pitfalls  of  Immorality 

May  I  suggest  some  steps  to  avoid  the 
pitfalls  of  immorality: 

(1)  Avoid  late  hours  and  weariness. 
The  Lord  said  retire  to  your  bed  early 
(D&C  88:124),  and  there  are  good  rea- 
sons for  that.  Some  of  the  worst  sins  are 
committed  after  midnight  by  tired 
heads.  Officers  in  the  wards  and  stakes, 
branches  and  missions  should  not  keep 
our  people,  especially  our  youth,  up  late 
at  night  even  for  wholesome  recreation. 

(2)  Keep  your  dress  modest.  Short 
skirts  are  not  pleasing  to  the  Lord,  but 
modesty  is.  Girls,  do  not  be  an  entice- 
ment for  your  downfall  because  of  your 
immodest  and  tight-fitting  clothes. 

(3)  Have  good  associates  or  don't 
associate  at  all.  Be  careful  in  the  selec- 
tion of  your  friends.  If  in  the  presence 
of  certain  persons  you  are  lifted  to  nobler 
heights,  you  are  in  good  company.  But 
if  your  friends  or  associates  encourage 
base  thoughts,  then  you  had  best  leave 
them. 

(4)  Avoid  necking  and  petting  like  a 
plague,  for  necking  and  petting  is  the 
concession  which  precedes  the  complete 
loss  of  virtue. 


60 

Saturday,  October  3 

(5)  Have  a  good  physical  outlet  of 
some  sport  or  exercise.  Overcome  evil 
with  good.  You  can  overcome  many  evil 
inclinations  through  good  physical  exer- 
tion and  healthful  activities.  A  healthy 
soul,  free  of  the  body-and-spirit-dulling 
influences  of  alcohol  and  tobacco,  is  in 
better  condition  to  overthrow  the  devil. 

(6)  Think  clean  thoughts.  Those  who 
think  clean  thoughts  do  not  do  dirty 
deeds.  You  are  not  only  responsible  be- 
fore God  for  your  acts  but  also  for  con- 
trolling your  thoughts.  So  live  that  you 
would  not  blush  with  shame  if  your 
thoughts  and  acts  could  be  flashed  on  a 
screen  in  your  church.  The  old  adage  is 
still  true  that  you  sow  thoughts  and  you 
reap  acts,  you  sow  acts  and  you  reap 
habits,  you  sow  habits  and  you  reap  a 
character,  and  your  character  deter- 
mines your  eternal  destiny.  "As  a  man 
thinketh,  so  is  he."  (See  Prov.  23:7.) 

(7)  Pray.  There  is  no  temptation 
placed  before  you  which  you  cannot 
shun.  Do  not  allow  yourself  to  get  in 
positions  where  it  is  easy  to  fall.  Listen 
to  the  promptings  of  the  Spirit.  If  you 
are  engaged  in  things  where  you  do  not 
feel  you  can  pray  and  ask  the  Lord's 
blessings  on  what  you  are  doing,  then 
you  are  engaged  in  the  wrong  kind  of 
activity. 

Yes — avoid  late  hours;  dress  modestly; 
seek  good  associates;  avoid  necking  and 
petting;  have  a  good  physical  outlet; 
think  good  thoughts;  pray. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  as  a  people. 
We  have  taken  upon  us  sacred  cove- 
nants. We  must  be  faithful.  We  are  in 
the  world,  it  is  true,  but  we  must  not 
partake  of  the  evils  of  the  world.  Let  us 
be  ever  on  guard  against  the  flattery  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

prominent  men  in  the  world,  false  edu- 
cational ideas,  and  sexual  impurity,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  given  the  con- 
cluding address. 

We  shall  conclude  this  session  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  singing  "Praise  Ye 
The  Lord."  Following  the  singing  the 
benediction  will  be  pronounced  by  Elder 
Reed  H.  Beckstead,  president  of  the  Mid- 
vale  Stake,  and  this  Conference  will  be 
adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  after- 
noon. 

We  again  express  appreciation  for  the 
cooperation  of  the  owners  and  managers 
of  the  many  television  and  radio  stations 
in  offering  their  facilities  as  a  public 
service  to  make  the  proceedings  of 
this  Conference  available  to  millions 
throughout  North  and  South  America, 
Europe,  Africa,  and  many  other  areas 
of  the  world. 

We  are  grateful,  too,  to  those  who  are 
joining  with  us  on  television  and  radio. 
May  God  bless  them  that  the  spirit  of 
this  occasion  will  enlighten  their  minds 
and  bring  peace  and  comfort  to  their 
souls. 

We  appreciate  the  attendance  here  of 
educators,  government  officials,  church 
officials,  many  of  our  service  men,  and 
others  who  are  in  attendance. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "Praise  Ye 
The  Lord." 

(Postlude  singing  by  Choir:  "Abide 
With  Me.") 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Again,  our  President  has  asked  that  I 
conduct  this  session  of  our  Conference. 
He  expresses  his  regret  that  his  doctors 
feel  he  should  not  attend.  If  it  were 
left  to  him  there  is  no  doubt  but  what 
he  would  be  here.  He  sends  his  blessings 
and  greetings  to  you  again  and  prays 


that  the  blessings  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  will  attend  us,  and  he  has  expressed 
his  gratitude  with  the  way  the  Confer- 
ence has  been  conducted,  the  fine  talks 
that  have  been  given  and  the  lovely 
music  that  has  been  rendered,  the  prayers 
that  have  been  offered. 

For  the  information  of  those  who  are 
tuned  in  by  radio  and  television  we  are 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


61 


pleased  to  announce  that  we  are  as- 
sembled in  the  famous  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the 
Fourth  Session  of  the  134th  Semi- Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  This  session  of  the 
Conference  will  be  broadcast  as  a  public 
service  over  television  and  radio  stations 
throughout  the  West.  The  names  of  the 
stations  were  announced  prior  to  the 
beginning  of  this  meeting.  We  deeply 
appreciate  the  service  that  is  being  ren- 
dered by  these  stations. 

Both  of  the  sessions  today  will  be  re- 
broadcast  over  KSL  Sunday  morning 
starting  at  one  o'clock  a.m.  and  will 
be  heard  in  many  parts  of  the  United 
States  and  the  world,  including  Canada, 
Mexico,  Alaska,  and  the  Islands  of  the 
Pacific.  This  morning's  session,  in  ad- 
dition to  being  broadcast  direct,  was 
video  taped  for  release  over  many  tele- 
vision stations  tomorrow  morning,  Sun- 
day, at  ten  o'clock  Eastern  Daylight 
Time  to  the  eastern  part  of  the  United 
States.  The  video  tape  of  our  session  this 
morning  is  now  on  its  way  by  air  to  be 
telecast  tomorrow  morning  in  Hawaii. 
This  morning's  session  has  reached  a 
vast  audience  of  listeners  both  in  the 
United  States  and  abroad.  It  is  also  now 
being  carried  by  jet  airline  to  Europe 
for  transmission  in  both  English  and 
German  over  Radio  Luxemberg  and 
will  be  heard  throughout  Europe  and 
Great  Britain  Wednesday  and  Friday 
evenings.  Delayed  release  of  the  Satur- 
day morning  session  will  also  be  broad- 
cast in  parts  of  Canada. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  again  the 
attendance  this  afternoon  of  special 
guests,  prominent  state  and  city  officials, 
and  leaders  in  educational  circles.  We 
extend  a  hearty  welcome  to  them. 

We  also  extend  a  cordial  welcome  to 
our  vast  unseen  audience  and  to  all  who 


are  gathered  in  this  historic  building 
this  afternoon. 

The  Singing  Mothers  this  afternoon, 
pardon  me,  the  singing  for  this  afternoon 
session  will  be  furnished  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University.  I  hope  you  do  as  well 
as  your  mothers.  (Laughter)  It  is  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses,  conducted  by  Brother  Maug- 
han McMurdie,  with  Brother  Roy  M. 
Darley  at  the  organ.  We  are  exceedingly 
pleased  to  have  these  young  men  and 
women  with  us  this  afternoon  and  ex- 
tend a  hearty  welcome  to  them.  We  are 
proud  of  them  and  of  the  University 
from  which  they  come  today. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Combined  Choruses  singing  "Lord,  To 
Thee  Our  Hearts,"  conducted  by  Brother 
Maughan  McMurdie. 

The  invocation  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Marion  Turley,  president  of  the 
Yuma  Stake  in  Arizona. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

The  invocation  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Marion  Turley,  president  of  the 
Yuma  Stake. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with 
"Psalm  Eighty-Six,"  Soloists:  Melva  All- 
red,  Soprano;  Wallace  McCloy,  Tenor, 
conducted  by  Maughan  McMurdie. 

After  the  singing  Elder  Delbert  L. 
Stapley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  be  our  first  speaker. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first  speaker 
and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


After  Jesus  began  his  earthly  mission 
and  acquired  a  faithful  following  of 
devoted  disciples,  he  went  up  into  a 
mountain  and  there  taught  many  im- 
portant principles  and  truths  which 
touch  upon  varied  but  vital  matters 


pertaining  to  man's  temporal  and  spir- 
itual welfare  and  happiness. 

I  desire  to  discuss  with  you  just  one 
admonition  taken  from  our  Lord's  re- 
nowned Sermon  upon  the  Mount. 

Said  Jesus  to  his  disciples:  "Ye  are 


62 

Saturday,  October  3 

the  salt  of  the  earth:  but  if  the  salt 
have  lost  his  savour,  wherewith  shall  it 
be  salted?  it  is  thenceforth  good  for 
nothing,  but  to  be  cast  out,  and  to  be 
trodden  under  foot  of  men."  (Matt. 
5:13.) 

For  what  purpose  does  Christ  refer 
to  his  disciples  as  the  "salt  of  the  earth"? 
This  scripture  is  not  an  idle  nor  insig- 
nificant statement,  but  to  the  contrary 
is  profound  and  most  meaningful.  We 
are  all  acquainted  with  the  savoring 
effect  salt  has  in  the  seasoning  of 
foods  to  make  them  more  palatable  to 
the  taste,  therefore,  desirable  and 
satisfying  to  eat 

Is  the  Savior  suggesting  to  his  dis- 
ciples in  this  declaration  that,  abiding 
fully  by  the  gospel  plan  of  life  and 
salvation,  they  can  acquire  a  savoring 
spiritual  influence  for  good  in  the 
lives  of  all  with  whom  they  associate 
and  labor? 

I  have  heard  men  explain  this  teach- 
ing of  our  Lord  by  saying  that  in 
olden  times  salt,  not  refined  as  we  have 
it  today,  but  acquired  in  its  natural 
state,  was  washed  out  and  used  to 
season  food.  When  only  the  worthless 
tailings  or  residue  remained,  it  was 
tossed  upon  the  walkways  to  be  trodden 
down  by  the  feet  of  men. 

I  have  searched  the  scriptures  for 
a  more  complete  understanding  of 
Christ  classifying  his  disciples  as  the 
"salt  of  the  earth"  and  share  with  you 
the  essential  facts  of  my  study  and 
prayerful  meditation. 

The  Gospel  according  to  Mark  con- 
tributes this  additional  thought  by 
Jesus:  ".  .  .  Have  salt  in  yourselves, 
and  have  peace  one  with  another." 
(Mark  9:50.)  And  Luke,  the  physician, 
records  this  same  teaching,  then  cites 
this  further  admonition  by  our  Lord: 
".  .  .  He  that  hath  ears  to  hear,  let  him 
hear."  (Luke  14:35.) 

Symbol  of  Purity  and  Fidelity 

Salt  symbolized  to  the  Hebrews 
purity  and  fidelity,  also  an  unbreakable 
league  of  friendship.  It  was  no  doubt 
with  this  knowledge  that  Christ  used 
the  metaphor  to  drive  home  a  doctrinal 
point  his  disciples  could  understand. 

The  Apostle  Paul  writing  to  the 
Colossian  Saints  counseled,  "Let  your 
speech  be  always  with  grace,  seasoned 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

with  salt,  that  ye  may  know  how  ye 
ought  to  answer  every  man."  (Col.  4:6.) 

The  Book  of  Mormon  record  of 
Christ's  visit  to  the  Nephites  reveals 
little  more  concerning  the  "salt  of 
the  earth"  status  of  his  disciples.  It 
does,  however,  confirm  the  biblical  state- 
ment and  contributes  this  thought,  "but 
if  the  salt  shall  lose  its  savor  where- 
with shall  the  earth  be  salted?  .  .  ." 
(3  Nephi  12:13.) 

The  scriptures  which  I  have  quoted 
or  referred  to  furnish  but  a  glimpse  of 
the  meaning  of  this  significant  and 
profound  statement  of  our  Lord,  but 
not  a  fulness  of  understanding.  The 
fulness  of  that  knowledge  was  reserved 
for  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness 
of  Times,  or  the  era  in  which  we  live. 
It  is  found  in  a  revelation  of  the  Lord 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  on 
December  16,  1833,  at  Kirtland,  Ohio. 
In  this  important  doctrinal  disclosure 
the  Lord  said: 

"When  men  are  called  unto  mine 
everlasting  gospel,  and  covenant  with 
an  everlasting  covenant,  they  are  ac- 
counted as  the  salt  of  the  earth  and  the 
savor  of  men; 

"They  are  called  to  be  the  savor  of 
men;  therefore,  if  that  salt  of  the 
earth  lose  its  savor,  behold,  it  is 
thenceforth  good  for  nothing  only  to 
be  cast  out  and  trodden  under  the  feet 
of  men."  (D&C  101:39-40.) 

This  revelation  is  most  enlightening. 
It  is  worthy  of  careful  and  prayerful 
study.  It  is  a  clear  explanation  and 
interpretation  of  Christ's  statement 
which  can  be  understood  and  which 
people  accept  as  a  correct  guide  to  im- 
prove their  personal  lives  and  thus 
qualify  them  as  the  savor  of  men. 

The  Power  of  God  Unto  Salvation 

Now  let  us  carefully  analyze  the  im- 
portant elements  of  this  revelation  and 
briefly  outline  the  course  man  must 
follow  to  achieve  the  spiritual  strength 
and  personal  influence  which  prepare 
him  to  become  "the  savor  of  men." 

"When  men  are  called,"  said  Jesus, 
"unto  mine  everlasting  gospel,  .  .  ." 
(idem),  which  gospel,  the  Apostle  Paul 
declared,  ".  .  .  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation  to  every  one  that  believeth.  . . ." 
(Rom.  1:16.) 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


63 


God's  Saving  Plan  and  Way  of  Life 

The  everlasting  gospel,  then,  is  God's 
saving  plan  and  way  of  life  for  all  his 
children  upon  the  earth. 

The  Lord,  through  personal  visits  and 
by  the  ministration  of  angels,  also  by 
inspiration  and  revelation  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  restored  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  the  true  and  everlasting 
gospel  of  our  Redeemer. 

When  an  individual  truly  repents 
and  is  baptized  by  an  authorized  ser- 
vant of  God  into  the  true  Church  of 
Christ  and  receives  the  Holy  Ghost  by 
the  laying  on  of  hands  by  those  pos- 
sessing the  Holy  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood, he  has  entered  into  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  and  becomes  a  member 
of  God's  Church  and  kingdom.  By  ac- 
cepting the  covenant  of  baptism,  each 
convert  obligates  himself  or  herself 
to  serve  the  Lord,  to  do  his  will,  and  to 
keep  his  commandments.  This  is  the 
first  qualifying  step  for  the  appli- 
cation of  "the  salt  of  the  earth"  status. 

The  second  step  is  to  ".  .  .  covenant 
with  an  everlasting  covenant.  ..." 
(D&C  101:39.)  As  we  gain  knowledge  of 
the  revelations,  we  learn  that  the  gospel 
contains  many  covenants  vital  to  the 
eternal  welfare  of  man.  This  state- 
ment, therefore,  has  a  plural  con- 
notation which  I  will  explain. 

Everlasting  Covenant  to 
Serve  the  Lord 

But  again,  let  me  restate,  every  bap- 
tized person  into  the  true  Church  of 
Christ  enters  into  an  everlasting  cove- 
nant to  serve  the  Lord,  to  do  his  will, 
and  to  keep  his  commandments.  Re- 
pentance and  baptism  by  water  and 
the  receiving  of  the  Holy  Ghost  afford 
entrance  into  the  kingdom  of  God,  and 
the  convert,  now  a  disciple  of  Christ, 
has  entered  through  the  gate  into  the 
straight  and  narrow  way  which  leads 
to  lire  eternal. 

".  .  .  yea,"  said  Nephi,  an  early 
Nephite  prophet,  "ye  have  done  ac- 
cording to  the  commandments  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son;  and  ye  have  re- 
ceived the  Holy  Ghost,  which  witnesses 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  unto  the 
fulfilling  of  the  promise  which  he  hath 
made,  that  if  ye  entered  in  by  the  way 
ye  should  receive." 


Then  Nephi  continues  with  this  warn- 
ing and  counsel: 

"And  now,  my  beloved  brethren, 
after  ye  have  gotten  into  this  straight 
and  narrow  path,  I  would  ask  if  all  is 
done?  Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  Nay; 
for  ye  have  not  come  thus  far  save  it 
were  by  the  word  of  Christ  with  un- 
shaken faith  in  him,  relying  wholly 
upon  the  merits  of  him  who  is  mighty 
to  save. 

"Wherefore,  ye  must  press  forward 
with  a  steadfastness  in  Christ,  having 
a  perfect  brightness  of  hope,  and  a 
love  of  God  and  of  all  men.  Wherefore, 
if  ye  shall  press  forward,  feasting  upon 
the  word  of  Christ,  and  endure  to  the 
end,  behold,  thus  saith  the  Father: 
Ye  shall  have  eternal  life. 

"And  now,  behold,  my  beloved  breth- 
ren, this  is  the  way;  and  there  is  none 
other  way  nor  name  given  under 
heaven  whereby  man  can  be  saved 
in  the  kingdom  of  God.  And  now,  be- 
hold, this  is  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  and 
the  only  and  true  doctrine  of  the  Father, 
and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
which  is  one  God,  without  end.  .  .  ." 
(2  Nephi  31:18-22.) 

To  Gain  Eternal  Life, 
Endure  to  the  End 

Therefore,  my  beloved  brethren  and 
sisters  and  friends,  after  baptism  and 
confirmation  into  the  kingdom  of  God, 
according  to  Nephi,  we  must  press  for- 
ward with  a  steadfastness  in  Christ  and 
endure  to  the  end  to  gain  eternal  life. 
For  by  these  first  steps  of  repentance, 
baptism,  and  the  receiving  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  all  requirements  are  not  com- 
pleted to  obtain  a  fulness  of  glory  in 
the  eternal  mansions  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  Baptism  alone  does  not  fully 
prepare  a  person  for  eternal  glory  as 
many  people  are  wont  to  believe. 

Other  Covenants 

There  are  other  important  covenants 
of  an  everlasting  nature  included  in 
the  fulness  of  the  gospel  of  Christ 
which  vitally  concern  man's  future 
well-being  and  happiness.  These  cove- 
nants are  eternal  in  nature.  How- 
ever, they  are  to  be  received  and 
accepted  in  mortal  life  by  all  mankind 
possessing  such  knowledge  and  desir- 


64  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  3 

ing  eternal  glory.  It  is  also  necessary 
for  them  to  meet  all  the  conditions  and 
requirements  and  to  fulfil  every  obliga- 
tion appertaining  to  each  gospel  cove- 
nant to  find  joy  and  happiness  both 
here  and  hereafter. 

The  Lord,  through  Moses,  admonished 
the  children  of  Israel  ".  .  .  to  observe 
the  sabbath  throughout  their  genera- 
tions, for  a  perpetual  covenant"  with 
their  Israel.  (See  Exod.  31:16.) 

The  Ten  Commandments  given  to 
Moses  on  Mt.  Sinai  are  referred  to  in 
scripture  as  a  covenant  with  the  house 
of  Israel.  (See  ibid.,  34:28.) 

Every  son  of  God  who  receives  by 
ordination  the  Holy  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood is  bound  by  an  oath  and  covenant 
to  keep  faithfully  all  the  commandments 
of  God  and  to  magnify  his  calling 
in  the  priesthood,  which  calling  is  a 
personal  gift  of  God's  power  to  him 
to  officiate  according  to  the  spirit  of 
his  office  and  calling. 

Every  worthy  church  member  privi- 
leged to  enter  the  temples  of  the  Lord 
for  his  or  her  endowment  blessings 
accepts  covenants  and  obligations  of 
the  most  sacred  nature,  revealed  of 
God  for  the  glory  of  his  children. 

Every  couple  kneeling  across  the 
altar  from  each  other  in  the  temples 
of  God  for  holy  marriage  enters  into  a 
covenant  of  the  highest  order,  which  is 
God's  order,  and  which  sealing  and  cove- 
nant is  for  time  and  for  all  eternity. 

There  are  other  covenants  and  obliga- 
tions growing  out  of  the  endowment 
as  well  as  the  marriage  contract  which 
are  binding  upon  the  individuals  con- 
cerned, and  their  obedience  thereto 
assures  the  sanctifying  influence  and 
power  of  the  Spirit  and  the  spiritual 
renewing  of  their  bodies  in  preparation 
for  the  blessings  and  glories  which 
are  to  come. 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  just  before 
his  crucifixion  upon  the  cross,  gave  the 
sacred  ordinance  of  the  Sacrament, 
which,  in  its  very  nature  and  purpose, 
is  a  covenant.  It  is  an  ordinance  in 
which  all  faithful  members  of  the 
Church  can  participate.  In  partaking 
of  the  sacramental  emblems,  all  par- 
takers witness  unto  God  the  Father 
and  also  unto  each  other  that  they  will 
take  upon  them  the  name  of  his  Son. 


Second  Day 

They  also  covenant  to  always  remember 
him  and  to  keep  the  commandments 
which  he  has  given  them,  and  in  so 
doing  they  have  the  blessed  promise 
that  his  Spirit  will  always  be  with 
them. 

Covenants  Bind  to  a  Course  of 
Righteous  Living 

I  hope  these  few  scriptural  quotes 
and  statements,  also  the  following  teach- 
ings and  observations  from  the  reve- 
lations, will  help  us  understand  more 
perfectly  what  the  Lord  means  to  cove- 
nant with  an  everlasting  covenant. 
We  must  keep  in  mind,  however,  as  I 
have  mentioned  before,  that  in  con- 
nection with  all  covenants  there  are 
conditions,  requirements,  and  obliga- 
tions which  bind  us  to  a  course  of 
righteous  living  and  doing.  It  is  in  the 
meeting  and  fulfilling  of  these  condi- 
tions, requirements,  and  obligations 
which  build  Christlike  character  in  an 
individual  and  make  possible  a  savoring 
effect  for  good  and  righteousness  in  the 
lives  of  people.  When  this  sanctified 
state  and  spiritual  motivation  are 
achieved,  we  are  then  accounted,  as 
Jesus  said,  ".  .  .  the  salt  of  the  earth 
and  the  savor  of  men";  (D&C  101:39.) 

Christ  applied  this  metaphorical 
teaching  to  his  disciples  to  convey  a 
spiritual  idea  and  ideal.  ".  .  .  to  be 
trodden  under  the  feet  of  men"  (Matt. 
5:13)  means  to  trample  divine  things 
underfoot  by  failure  to  live  according 
to  revealed  truth  and  the  light  which 
God  has  given  for  the  temporal  wel- 
fare as  well  as  the  eternal  well-being, 
joy,  and  happiness  of  his  people. 

"The  Salt  of  the  Earth" 

Jesus  followed  the  statement  to  his 
disciples  regarding  their  being  desig- 
nated "the  salt  of  the  earth"  by  an 
analogous  and  associated  statement 
which  gives  significance  and  emphasis 
to  the  "salt  of  the  earth"  status. 

Said  the  Lord:  "Ye  are  the  light  of 
the  world.  A  city  that  is  set  on  an 
hill  cannot  be  hid. 

"Neither  do  men  light  a  candle,  and 
put  it  under  a  bushel,  but  on  a  candle- 
stick; and  it  giveth  light  unto  all  that 
are  in  the  house. 

"Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men, 


ELDER  DELBl 

that  they  may  see  your  good  works, 
and  glorify  your  Father  which  is  in 
heaven."  (Ibid.,  5:14-16.) 

The  Light  of  the  World 

Those  then  who  are  the  "salt  of  the 
earth"  are  also  the  light  of  the  world, 
and  the  radiance  of  that  light,  shin- 
ing through  their  good  works  to  man- 
kind, glorifies  our  Eternal  Father  and 
strengthens  his  work  and  kingdom  on 
the  earth. 

One  of  the  best  compliments  an  in- 
dividual can  say  of  another  is  that  he 
or  she  is  the  "salt  of  the  earth."  It 
is  most  meaningful  and  suggests  un- 
questioned Christlike  character  and 
conduct,  uprightness,  honesty,  spiritu- 
ality, sincerity  of  purpose,  dignity,  and 
other  noble  character  virtues  and  quali- 
ties patterned  after  the  divine  nature 
of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

In  another  revelation  given  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  at  Kirtland, 
Ohio,  on  February  24,  1834,  the  Lord 
had  this  to  say  in  admonition  and 
counsel  to  his  people: 

"And  that  those  who  call  themselves 
after  my  name  might  be  chastened 
for  a  little  season  with  a  sore  and 
grievous  chastisement,  because  they 
did  not  hearken  altogether  unto  the 
precepts  and  commandments  which  I 
gave  unto  them. 

"But  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  I 
have  decreed  a  decree  which  my  people 
shall  realize,  inasmuch  as  they  hearken 
from  this  very  hour  unto  the  counsel 
which  I,  the  Lord  their  God,  shall  give 
unto  them. 

"And  by  hearkening  to  observe  all 
the  words  which  I,  the  Lord  their  God, 
shall  speak  unto  them,  they  shall  never 
cease  to  prevail  until  the  kingdoms  of 
the  world  are  subdued  under  my  feet, 
and  the  earth  is  given  unto  the  saints, 
to  possess  it  forever  and  ever. 

"But  inasmuch  as  they  keep  not  my 
commandments,  and  hearken  not  to  ob- 
serve all  my  words,  the  kingdoms  of 
the  world  shall  prevail  against  them. 


IT  L.  STAPLEY  65 

"For  they  were  set  to  be  a  light  un- 
to the  world,  and  to  be  the  saviors  of 
men; 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  are  not  the 
saviors  of  men,  they  are  as  salt  that 
has  lost  its  savor,  and  is  thenceforth 
good  for  nothing  but  to  be  cast  out 
and  trodden  under  foot  of  men."  (D&C 
103:4-5,  7-10.) 

The  World's  Need 

In  the  light  of  this  revelation,  as  we 
view  conditions  among  men  and  nations 
today,  we  realize  the  world  needs 
more  "salting."  Who,  then,  or  which 
group  can  help  guide  the  people  of  the 
world  to  freedom  and  peace?  The 
way  to  peace,  brotherhood,  and  happi- 
ness is  for  the  Saints  of  the  Most  High 
God  to  set  an  example  in  spiritual 
living  and  doing  as  to  savor  the  souls 
of  men  in  righteousness,  truth,  and 
brotherhood.  Therefore,  we  who  have 
membership  in  the  Church  of  Christ 
and  possess  the  gospel  of  peace  and 
salvation  have  this  privilege,  respon- 
sibility,  and  challenge. 

Let  us,  therefore,  become  more  faith- 
ful, obedient,  and  exemplary  in  all  our 
obligations  and  duties  to  God  and  our 
fellow  men,  and  thus  fully  qualify  to 
be  considered  "the  salt  of  the  earth" 
to  savor  the  souls  of  men  everywhere. 

I  bear  witness,  my  brothers  and 
sisters  and  friends,  to  the  truthfulness 
of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged, 
to  the  need  the  world  has  for  the 
message  of  the  gospel  as  we  teach  it. 
I  pray  that  we  may  always  be  found 
faithful,  true,  and  obedient  in  our  de- 
votions to  our  God,  and  I  ask  it  humbly 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  speak  to  us  now,  and 
he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  S.  Dilworth 
Young  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


66 

Saturday,  October  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Second  Day 


Brothers  and  sisters,  humbly  I  stand 
before  you  here  this  day,  grateful  in  my 
heart  for  the  privilege  that  I  enjoy  with 
you  of  being  present  at  this  great  con- 
ference. I  have  enjoyed  the  messages  of 
my  brethren,  commencing  with  the  won- 
derful message  sent  to  us  by  our  noble 
President  and  read  so  beautifully  by 
his  son  Robert.  We  have  been  thrilled 
with  the  messages  that  have  been  given 
and  thank  the  Lord  for  our  leaders.  I 
thought  of  the  words  of  the  song,  "Come, 
listen  to  a  prophet's  voice,  And  hear  the 
word  of  God,  ^And  in  the  way  of  truth 
rejoice,  And  sing  for  joy  aloud."  (Hymns, 
46.)  Now  we  feel  like  singing  for  joy 
when  we  listen  to  the  words  of  these 
prophets  and  know  how  much  the  Lord 
has  given  us  in  our  day  that  is  not 
understood  by  the  world. 

"He  that  Cometh  to  God  " 

I  had  a  conversation  with  a  relative  of 
mine  a  short  time  ago.  He  made  this 
statement  which  has  remained  with  me 
and  which  I  have  thought  a  lot  about. 
He  said,  "No  one  believes  the  Lord." 
I  have  thought  of  that,  and  I  thought, 
wouldn't  it  be  wonderful  if  all  of  our 
Father's  children  believed  him  as  he 
talks  to  us  through  his  prophets.  Suppose 
that  he  were  with  us,  and  we  could  sit 
down  with  him  and  could  be  instructed 
by  him  personally,  as  was  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  and  he  would  tell  us  the  reason 
for  our  being  here  upon  this  earth  and 
what  our  mission  is  to  be.  Would  it 
make  any  more  difference  in  our  devo- 
tion and  our  willingness  to  serve  him 
than  it  does  when  he  speaks  to  us 
through  his  prophets? 

You  remember  what  the  Apostle  Paul 
said:  ".  .  .  he  that  cometh  to  God  must 
believe  that  he  is,  and  that  he  is  a  re- 
warder  of  them  that  diligently  seek 
him."  (Heb.  11:6.)  And  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  the  Lord  said,  "I,  the 
Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say; 
but  when  ye  do  not  what  I  say,  ye  have 
no  promise."  (D&C  82:10.) 


Commandments  and 
Promised  Blessings 

As  I  have  studied  the  gospel,  and  not 
only  through  my  study  but  in  my  obser- 
vation in  the  years  of  experience  I  have 
had  in  this  Church,  I  haven't  found  any 
commandment  from  the  Lord  without  a 
promised  blessing  far  greater  in  value 
than  the  thing  that  the  Lord  asks  of  us. 
He  puts  us  to  the  test  to  see  if  we  be- 
lieve him. 

Remember  when  this  earth  was 
formed,  or  ready  for  forming,  the  Lord 
looked  down,  saw  there  was  space,  and 
said,  ". . .  we  will  take  of  these  materials, 
and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon 
these  may  dwell;  .  .  ."  referring  to  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  God  in  the  spirit 
world. 

"And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to 
see  if  they  will  do  all  things  whatsoever 
the  Lord  their  God  shall  command 
them."  (Abraham  3:24-25.)  Wouldn't  it 
be  wonderful  if  we  all  believed  the 
Lord  enough  so  that  we  would  be  will- 
ing to  obey  his  commandments  that  he 
gives  us? 

Action  Without  Questions 

Over  fifty  years  ago  I  heard  Elder 
James  E.  Talmage  tell  this  story.  It  has 
remained  with  me  all  these  years.  He 
told  about  a  group  of  tourists  or  travelers 
in  the  Alps  who  were  snowbound.  The 
Lord  sent  an  angel  to  a  monk  and  told 
him  about  these  people,  asking  him  to 
go  and  rescue  them.  The  answer  was, 
"Why?"  And  the  minute  he  said, 
"Why,"  the  angel  disappeared.  He  went 
to  the  second  monk  and  delivered  the 
same  message,  and  the  answer  was, 
"How?"  And  the  angel  disappeared.  He 
went  to  the  third  and  delivered  the  same 
message,  and  the  monk  said,  "When?" 
And  the  angel  remained  and  delivered 
his  message. 

It  shouldn't  be  for  us  to  say,  when  the 
call  of  the  Lord  comes  or  when  we  un- 
derstand a  command  that  is  given  to  us 
through  the  prophets  of  God,  "How  can 
we  do  it?"  or  "Why  does  he  ask  us  to 
do  it?"  but  "When,  oh,  God  the  Eternal 
Father,  as  thy  son  or  daughter,  wouldst 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


67 


thou  have  me  do  the  thing  that  thou 
hast  commanded?" 

Commandments  and  a  Way 
to  Keep  Them 

And  then  I  thought  of  the  words  of 
Nephi.  You  remember  when  he  was 
commanded  to  go  back  and  get  the 
plates  from  Laban.  He  said,  "I  know  that 
the  Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto 
the  children  of  men,  save  he  shall  pre- 
pare a  way  for  them  that  they  may 
accomplish  the  thing  which  he  com- 
mandeth  them."  (1  Nephi  3:7.)  That  is 
my  faith,  and  that  is  the  faith  we  all 
should  have. 

Speaking  now  of  the  promises  of  the 
Lord  to  those  who  keep  his  command- 
ments (and  there  isn't  time,  of  course, 
in  a  meeting  like  this  to  discuss  many 
of  them),  you  remember  what  Jesus 
said:  "Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart: 
for  they  shall  see  God."  (Matt.  5:8.) 
What  a  promise!  I  believe  that.  I  be- 
lieve every  man  or  woman  who  lives 
here  in  mortality  in  purity  before  God 
will  stand  in  his  presence  and  have  his 
benediction,  "Well  done,  thou  good  and 
faithful  servant."  We  have  been  told  in 
this  conference  that  no  unclean  thing 
shall  ever  enter  his  presence.  I  believe 
that  with  all  my  heart. 

Examples 

Jesus  said,  "Blessed  are  they  which  do 
hunger  and  thirst  after  righteousness:  for 
they  shall  be  filled."  (Ibid.,  5:6.)  No  man 
ever  hungers  and  thirsts  after  righteous- 
ness and  asks  God  the  Eternal  Father  in 
great  humility  and  in  faith,  that  the 
Lord  doesn't  grant  the  righteous  desires  of 
his  heart.  We  have  been  told  that  here 
in  this  conference  by  a  number  of  the 
speakers  who  have  already  spoken  to  us. 

Repentance  and  Baptism 

And  so  you  can  go  through  the  rest  of 
the  commandments.  Take  the  one  on 
the  law  of  tithing  as  an  illustration — 
how  the  Lord  calls  us  back,  saying  that 
Israel  had  robbed  him  in  the  withhold- 
ing of  their  tithes  and  their  offerings! 
Then  he  said,  "Return  unto  me,  and  I 
will  return  unto  you.  .  .  ."  What  an  in- 
vitation! 

".  .  .  and  prove  me  now  herewith, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open 


you  the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour 
you  out  a  blessing,  that  there  shall  not 
be  room  enough  to  receive  it."  (Mai. 
3:7,  10.) 

What  if  we  just  believed  the  Lord  and 
could  accept  his  word  as  it  comes  to  us 
from  his  prophets?  There  wouldn't  be 
any  argument  about  "how"  or  "why," 
but  it  would  be,  "When,  oh,  Lord,  would 
you  have  me  do  the  thing  that  you  have 
commanded  through  your  servants  the 
prophets?" 

And  so  you  can  go  through  the  list. 
Take,  for  instance,  the  day  of  Pentecost 
when  Peter  stood  before  the  multitude 
and  bore  witness  that  Jesus  was  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  (What 
marvelous  testimonies  we  have  had  here 
in  this  conference  to  that  effect,  par- 
ticularly from  President  Tanner  this 
morning.)  And  what  happened  to  the 
multitude  on  the  day  of  Pentecost?  They 
were  pricked  in  their  hearts,  and  they 
cried  out,  "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall 
we  do?"  And  you  remember  the  answer. 

Peter  said,  "Repent  and  be  baptized, 
every  one  of  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and 
ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

"For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to 
your  children,  and  to  all  that  are  afar 
off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God 
shall  call."  (Acts  2:37-39.) 

Now,  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  know 
the  meaning  of  this  promise.  We  have 
been  baptized  in  Christ's  name.  We 
have  received  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  the 
evidence  of  that  is  in  the  great  sacrifices 
that  are  being  made  all  over  this  Church 
to  carry  on  this  great  work  of  the  Father 
to  build  his  kingdom,  to  prepare  for  his 
coming,  to  help  to  make  possible  the 
fulfilment  of  the  prayer  he  taught  his 
disciples:  "Thy  kingdom  come.  Thy  will 
be  done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven." 
(Matt.  6:10.)  And  there  is  no  sacrifice 
that  can  be  asked  of  the  faithful  Latter- 
day  Saints  that  they  are  not  willing  to 
make  in  order  to  fulfil  the  promises  of 
the  Lord  and  to  show  their  faith  in  him. 
Wouldn't  it  be  wonderful  if  all  of  us 
believed  the  Lord? 

The  Word  of  Wisdom 

I  will  refer  briefly  to  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  We  read  in  the  magazines  and 


68  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  3 

in  the  newspapers  today  statements  by 
great  scientists  telling  us  that  tobacco 
is  the  cause  of  lung  cancer  and  other 
diseases,  and  yet  less  than  three  years 
after  this  Church  was  organized,  the 
Lord  in  February  1833  gave  a  Word  of 
Wisdom  unto  his  people  for  their  guid- 
ance. He  said  that  it  was  the  mind  and 
will  of  the  Lord.  Does  anybody  need  to 
argue  about  whether  it  is  to  be  observed 
or  not  when  the  Lord  himself  says  it  is 
the  mind  and  the  will  of  the  Lord?  And 
then  he  said  it  is  ".  .  .  adapted  to  the 
capacity  of  the  weak  and  the  weakest  of 
all  saints,  who  are  or  can  be  called 
saints."  (D&C  89:3.)  And  I  always  say  if 
there  are  any  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
any  weaker  than  that,  we  ought  not  to 
ask  them  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
But  think  of  the  promises  of  the  Lord 
through  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom! 
And  he  tells  us  that  ".  .  .  tobacco  is  not 
[good]  for  the  body,  neither  for  the  belly, 
and  is  not  good  for  man,  but  is  an  herb 
for  bruises  and  all  sick  cattle,  to  be  used 
with  judgment  and  skill."  (Ibid.,  89:8.) 

Then  consider  the  rest  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  There  isn't  time  to  discuss  it  in 
detail,  but  we  are  not  to  use  strong 
drinks.  Strong  drink  has  caused  more 
misery  and  broken  homes  and  unhappi- 
ness  than  all  the  wars  that  have  ever 
been  fought,  and  yet  we  can't  believe 
the  Lord  and  know  that  we  shouldn't 
touch  these  things.  If  you  take  the  first 
glass,  you  never  know  how  soon  you  will 
take  the  second;  and  if  you  never  take 
the  first  one,  particularly  our  young 
people,  you  will  never  need  to  worry 
about  the  second. 

Then  the  Lord  indicates  that  if  we 
keep  this  Word  of  Wisdom,  we  shall  run 
and  not  be  weary  and  walk  and  not 
faint,  and  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass 
us  by  and  not  slay  us  as  the  children  of 
Israel.  And  then  he  tells  us  that  we 
shall  have  knowledge,  yea,  even  hidden 
treasures  of  knowledge,  and  I  think  that 
is  one  of  the  greatest  promises  the  Lord 
has  made  to  his  people  in  this  dispensa- 
tion. (See  ibid.,  89:19-21.) 

Companionship  of  the  Holy  Ghost 

You  find  boys  and  girls  who  keep  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  and  remember  their 
prayers,  and  you  will  find  that  they  have 
the  companionship  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
that  they  have  power  given  them  to 


Second  Day 

resist  the  evils  and  the  temptations  of 
this  world,  as  demonstrated  in  then- 
lives. 

Some  of  us  have  had  the  privilege  of 
attending  these  youth  conferences.  A 
short  time  ago  I  was  at  one  back  in 
Carthage  where  the  Prophet  Joseph 
and  his  brother  Hyrum  were  martyred. 
We  had  over  five  hundred  young  people 
there  from  that  mission.  Some  of  them 
had  come  a  thousand  miles  to  be  there, 
and  for  three  hours  there  wasn't  a 
minute  lost  between  their  testimonies. 
They  took  their  turns  bearing  testimony, 
and  with  tears  in  their  eyes,  most  of 
them  testified  that  they  knew  that  God 
lives,  that  they  knew  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  that  they  knew  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  God;  and  no  reasonable 
person  could  have  listened  to  the  testi- 
monies of  those  boys  and  girls  and 
questioned  their  sincerity. 

Hidden  Treasures  of  Knowledge 

Talk  about  hidden  treasures  of  knowl- 
edge! What  more  could  you  ask?  Is 
there  a  father  or  mother  in  Israel  who 
wouldn't  want  his  or  her  boys  and  girls 
to  make  themselves  worthy  of  the  bless- 
ings that  the  Lord  has  promised  through 
observing  and  keeping  the  Word  of 
Wisdom?  Wouldn't  it  be  wonderful  if 
we  could  all  believe  the  Lord? 

There  are  many  other  evidences  in 
this  Church  of  how  the  Lord  is  fulfilling 
his  promise.  Take  the  12,000  mission- 
aries in  the  field — young  men  and 
women  giving  their  time  without  re- 
muneration. I  visited  with  the  vice-presi- 
dent of  Brigham  Young  University  last 
night.  They  have  fifty-six  wards  and  six 
stakes  of  Zion.  He  said  it  is  a  thrill  on 
fast  Sunday  to  hear  these  young  people 
bear  their  testimonies — hidden  treasures 
of  knowledge. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  with  all  my  heart 
and  soul  I  testify  that  I  know  this  work 
is  true;  and  I  know  no  man  or  woman 
or  boy  or  girl  can  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Living  God,  have  faith  in 
him,  and  be  prayerful  who  will  not  be 
blessed  with  blessings  which  are  more 
valuable  than  the  wealth  of  this  world. 
I  bear  my  witness  of  the  truth  of  this 
work  and  ask  God  to  bless  you  Latter- 
day  Saints  everywhere  and  our  friends 
throughout  the  world,  and  above  all  to 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


69 


preserve  the  youth  of  Zion  from  the  pit- 
falls and  evils  of  this  world  that  can 
mar  their  lives.  I  leave  my  blessing 
upon  you  all,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


It  is  vital  that  the  doctrines  of  exaltation 
be  taught  in  this  conference.  It  is  neces- 
sary that  some  attention  be  given  to 
some  detail. 

Long  ago,  129  years  to  be  exact,  Joseph 
the  Prophet  invited  Brigham  and  Joseph 
Young  to  his  house  at  Kirtland  to  sing 
for  him.  The  Young  brothers  had  ex- 
cellent blending  voices  and  were  fond 
of  singing  together.  The  songs  they  sang 
were  the  sentimental  songs  of  the  New 
York  frontier,  coupled  with  some  hymns 
popular  with  the  Methodists  but  true 
enough  in  sentiment  to  be  adopted  by 
the  Church.  An  old  diary  of  Brigham 
Young  contains  two  or  three  of  these 
songs,  laboriously  copied  out  in  his 
old-fashioned  handwriting. 

The  Prophet  was  touched  by  what 
they  sang  and  engaged  them  in  a  long 
conversation.  He  recounted  a  vision  in 
which  he  saw  the  heavenly  reward  of 
those  who  had  died  during  the  Zion's 
Camp  march.  He  wept  as  he  mentioned 
the  beauty  and  glory  of  their  kingdoms. 
He  told  Brigham  that  he  was  to  be  one 
of  the  twelve  special  witnesses,  soon  to 
be  called,  and  he  appointed  him  to 
spread  the  word  that  Saturday  next  a 
conference  would  be  held  at  which  the 
Twelve  would  be  chosen.  Then  he 
turned  to  Joseph  and  said  strange  words, 
"Brother  Joseph,  the  Lord  has  made  you 
president  of  the  seventies." 

From  that  day  until  now  men  have 
been  ordained  to  the  "seventies." 

The  Call  of  the  Seventy 

Many  have  conceived  it  as  a  personal 
call  to  teach  all  who  would  give  heed  to 
their  declaration  of  testimony.  Others 
have  passively  accepted  the  ordination, 
responding  as  called  to  local  office  and 
local  service.  Some  have  felt  that  with 
the  office  of  seventy  comes  some  special 


endowment  which  sets  them  apart  from 
others  in  a  special  way. 

The  quorums  of  the  seventy  in  this 
day  number  approximately  400.  Their 
total  is  in  the  neighborhood  of  22,000 
men.  Each  of  these  men  is  a  member  of 
a  ward,  presided  over  by  a  bishop,  and 
is  subject  to  the  call  of  his  stake  presi- 
dent to  do  missionary  work.  As  is  the 
case  in  all  church  responsibilities  the 
seventies  are  subject  to  call  by  authority 
before  they  take  part  in  the  organized 
missionary  work  of  the  Church. 

The  Missionary  Method  and  Message 

Today  the  missionary  system  has  been 
carefully  organized  as  to  the  content  of 
the  message  and  the  method  of  its  pre- 
sentation. The  method  of  presenting  the 
gospel  to  people  in  1840  would  be  of 
small  avail  in  this  day  of  sophisticated 
men  and  women.  Today's  method  of 
work  fits  today. 

The  seventies,  therefore,  must  be  pre- 
pared for  today.  Is  a  seventy  to  be  called 
as  a  teaching  missionary?  Then  he  must 
learn  the  prepared  lessons  and  the  tech- 
niques of  their  delivery.  At  the  same 
time  he  must  learn  to  be  flexible  in  the 
use  of  the  lessons  so  that  he  can  meet 
each  situation  as  it  arises.  This  will  re- 
quire both  technical  training  and  the 
guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  Every 
seventy  in  the  Church  who  has  the 
ability  to  teach  should  prepare  himself 
by  practice  and  training  to  be  ready  to 
teach  the  gospel  should  he  be  called 
and  should  make  himself  available  for 
call.  This  means  that  opportunities  must 
be  given  to  him  to  prepare  himself.  The 
quorum  presidents  are  responsible  for 
this  opportunity.  The  quorums  should 
operate  schools  of  preparation.  The 
presidents  of  quorums  should  be  alert 
to  the  progress  of  their  brethren  in 
the  preparatory  effort,  notifying  the  stake 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

president  when  a  man  is  trained  and 
ready.  Calls  to  be  teaching  missionaries 
on  a  mass  basis  would  be  bound  for 
failure.  Calls  to  trained  seventies 
would  result  in  success. 

Finding  Interested  Persons 

In  this  new  program  quorum  members 
not  called  to  be  missionaries  are  to  be- 
come finders  of  prospects.  I  think  we 
call  the  prospects  investigators  at  times. 
In  this  important  activity,  the  seventies 
go  forth  to  discover  people  who  will  be 
interested  and  who  will  listen  to  the 
message  of  the  missionaries.  This  also 
requires  training.  Here  the  prospect  is 
to  be  persuaded  to  receive  the  instruction 
in  gospel  principles.  The  training  there- 
fore must  be  in  the  art  of  persuasion. 
Quorum  presidents  should  prepare  these 
members  by  training  courses  in  this  art. 

The  enlargement  of  the  effort  will  de- 
pend on  these  men  now  called  "finders." 
These  discover  interested  people  and 
arrange  with  them  to  hear  the  lessons 
taught  by  the  missionaries.  You  can  see 
that  their  importance  can  hardly  be 
overestimated.  They  assist  members  to 
succeed  in  the  program  of  "every  mem- 
ber, every  family,  a  missionary."  They 
go  into  new  territory,  seeking  the  honest 
in  heart.  Theirs  is  the  more  difficult  of 
the  two  missionary  efforts  of  finding  and 
teaching. 

Stake  Presidents  Guiding  Hands 

In  all  of  this  work,  the  stake  presi- 
dent's is  the  guiding  hand.  He  arranges 
to  release  the  men  from  ward  responsi- 
bilities so  they  can  serve  the  quorum 
presidents  as  finders,  and  he  calls  per- 
sonally those  to  act  as  missionaries.  His 
reservoir  of  men  for  both  of  these  re- 
sponsibilities should  be  the  seventies 
quorum.  And  so  it  will  be  if  there  is  an 
alert  presidency  preparing  its  members 
and  making  them  available. 

The  gospel  is  to  be  preached.  Under 
the  direction  of  the  Twelve  the  seventy 
are  to  assist  in  the  preaching.  So  say  the 
revelations.  But  an  effort  must  be  made 
by  the  men  involved  to  prepare  for  the 
call.  At  the  present  moment  the  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  have  placed  the 
responsibility  for  missionary  work  in  the 
stakes  on  the  stake  presidents  and  have 
asked  them  to  call  worthy  seventies. 


Second  Day 

Then  let  us  become  trained  and  able, 
and  the  stake  presidents  will  call  us. 
They  will  use  the  best  available  men  for 
the  job.  The  seventy  should  fit  that 
description. 

As  I  read  the  revelations  and  see  the 
provisions  made  by  the  Lord  for  the 
work  of  this  dispensation,  my  feeling 
for  the  great  overreaching  power  of  the 
gospel  grows  stronger  and  stronger.  In 
the  authority  of  the  restoration  is  the 
power  to  implement  its  success. 

Joseph  Smith  laid  the  groundwork, 
and  each  succeeding  president  has  added 
to  the  structure  as  the  need  has  arisen. 
President  McKay  leads  this  work  now 
and,  as  the  living  prophet,  has  estab- 
lished this  present  system.  It  is  under 
his  direction  and  approbation.  That  he  is 
a  prophet  I  bear  witness.  I  also  testify 
that  the  gospel  was  restored  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  whose  mission 
was  revealed  to  him  in  his  youth,  who 
spent  his  maturing  years  in  preparing 
for  the  work,  and  who  gave  his  complete 
adult  life  to  its  restoration,  finally  seal- 
ing his  testimony  with  his  blood.  The 
least  we  can  do  is  to  give  our  complete 
devotion  to  it. 

Seventies,  Special  Witnesses 

If  any  man,  if  any  body  of  men, 
should  stand  true,  it  is  the  seventies. 
Specially  chosen,  called  to  be  special 
witnesses,  let  us  bear  our  witness  with 
the  knowledge  of  the  truth  to  spur  us  on 
and  with  the  further  knowledge  that  the 
Lord  has  called  us  to  it.  But  let  us  do 
it  in  order  and  by  appointment  as  the 
Lord's  servants  designate. 

On  behalf  of  the  seventies,  we  pledge 
this  day  to  you,  President  McKay,  that 
we  shall  give  redoubled  effort  to  help 
implement  this  call  to  have  the  seventies 
prepared  and  called  to  do  missionary 
work,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Brother  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

The  congregation  will  join  with  the 
Chorus  in  singing  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High,"  conducted  by  Brother  McMurdie. 
Brother  Alma  Sonne  will  be  our  next 
speaker. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


71 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 


Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us.  He  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Victor  Brown  of 
the  Presiding  Bishopric. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  the 
word  of  God  has  come  to  us  in  rich 
measure  in  every  session  of  this  confer- 
ence. We  have  been  reassured;  we  have 
been  strengthened;  we  have  been  edi- 
fied; and  we  are  happy  in  our  knowledge 
of  the  truth. 

I  want  to  read  to  you  a  sentence  writ- 
ten by  Charles  A.  Lindbergh.  He  said: 
"It  should  now  be  branded  on  our  con- 
science that  unless  science  is  controlled 
by  a  greater  moral  force,  it  will  become 
the  anti-Christ  prophesied  by  the  early 
Christians."  He  also  refers  to  great  spirit- 
ual truths  which  emanate  from  God. 
"Unless  the  actions  of  a  people  are 
guided  by  these  truths,"  he  points  out, 
"it  is  only  a  matter  of  time  before  their 
walls  will  collapse  as  they  did  at  Berlin, 
Munich,  and  Nuremberg." 

The  Bible  Source  of  Spiritual  Truths 

The  spiritual  truths  referred  to  by 
Colonel  Lindbergh  are  contained  in  the 
fulness  of  the  restored  gospel  and  are 
itemized  and  emphasized  in  the  Holy 
Bible.  We  invite  people  everywhere  to 
search  the  scriptures.  "We  believe  the 
Bible  to  be  the  word  of  God  .  .  ."  said 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  There  is  and 
has  been  much  controversy  about  the 
Bible.  What  the  world  needs  today  are 
fewer  people  to  argue  and  more  people 
to  read  and  think.  There  are  many  in- 
terpretations and  a  diversity  of  opinion, 
and  as  a  result  there  is  much  confusion 
and  division  in  the  religious  world.  I 
am  sure  one  of  our  major  difficulties  is 
that  mankind  has  lost  guidance  and 
wanders  about  from  place  to  place  and 
from  theory  to  theory  without  either 
guide  or  compass.  Without  guidance 
man  lives  in  a  vacuum  with  no  road  to 
the  future. 

The  Bible  is  the  Word  of  God 

Like  many  of  you,  I  believe  in  the 
Bible.  It  is  the  word  of  God.  It  is  re- 
liable and  trustworthy.  It  contains  the 


wisdom  of  the  ages  and  is  the  source  of 
all  that  is  best  in  our  modern  life.  It  is 
an  outline  of  history  covering  a  period 
about  which  people  generally  are  not 
well  informed.  From  the  standpoint  of 
literature  it  ranks  among  the  best,  and 
I  have  found  that  among  many  writers 
and  public  speakers  are  those  who  are 
indebted  to  the  Holy  Bible  for  the  ef- 
fectiveness and  renown  of  their  liter- 
ary production.  I  often  think  of  Abra- 
ham Lincoln's  appraisal  of  the  Bible 
and  his  acknowledgment  of  its  value. 
It  was  not  an  offhand  opinion  given  by 
him  of  this  sacred  volume.  Lincoln  was 
qualified  to  speak  on  this  subject.  He 
said,  "This  great  book  ...  is  the  best 
gift  God  has  given  to  man.  All  the  good 
Savior  gave  to  the  world  was  com- 
municated through  that  book.  But  for 
it  we  should  not  know  right  from 
wrong.  It  seems  to  me  that  nothing 
short  of  infinite  wisdom  could  by  any 
possibility  have  devised  this  excellent 
and  perfect  moral  code."  (August 
1864.) 

Lincoln's  quotations  from  the  Old  and 
New  Testaments  are  numerous.  These 
quotations  appear  not  only  in  his 
speeches  but  also  in  his  private  corre- 
spondence. In  his  second  inaugural  ad- 
dress, which  is  noted  for  its  eloquence 
and  its  masterful  presentation,  scriptural 
quotations  abound,  and  the  name  of 
Deity  is  frequently  used,  and  religious 
sentiment  runs  through  the  entire  speech. 
President  Lincoln,  as  you  know,  was  a 
religious  man  without  any  church  af- 
filiation. He  was  often  on  his  knees  in 
prayer.  Passages  like  the  following  are 
used  by  him: 

"Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged." 
(Matt.  7:1.) 

"Woe  unto  the  world  because  of  of- 
fences! for  it  must  needs  be  that  offences 
come;  but  woe  to  that  man  by  whom 
the  offence  comethl"  (Ibid.,  18:7.) 

".  .  .  the  judgments  of  the  Lord  are 


72 

Saturday,  October  3 

true  and  righteous  altogether."  (Psalm 
19:9.) 

Confidence  in  Spiritual  Truths 

Lincoln  appeared  to  have  unlimited 
confidence  in  scriptural  teachings.  He 
used  them  in  private  correspondence  and 
in  his  daily  conversations.  In  one  of  his 
letters  he  quotes  from  the  third  chap- 
ter and  the  19th  verse  of  Genesis:  "In 
the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat 
bread,  .  .  ."  In  the  same  letter  he  quotes 
the  golden  rule  and  alludes  to  the  temp- 
tations of  Jesus.  When  asked  to  repeat 
his  stand  on  a  certain  matter,  he  re- 
fused by  quoting  from  the  16th  chapter 
of  Luke:  ".  .  .  If  they  hear  not  Moses 
and  the  prophets,  neither  will  they  be 
persuaded,  though  one  rose  from  the 
dead."  (Verse  31.) 

There  can  be  no  question  about  Lin- 
coln's familiarity  with  the  Bible,  or  that 
he  read  it  frequently,  and  that  he  memo- 
rized large  portions  of  it  His  greatest 
speeches,  like  his  farewell  talk  on  leav- 
ing Springfield,  his  second  inaugural, 
and  his  masterful  oration  at  Gettysburg, 
furnish  irrefutable  evidence  of  the  debt 
he  owes  the  English  Bible.  Most  people 
will  agree  that  from  the  standpoint  of 
greatness  and  wise  statesmanship  Lin- 
coln tops  the  list. 

I  have  spoken  as  I  have  about  our 
great  American  because  I  believe  he  is  a 
product  of  the  truths  contained  in  the 
Holy  Bible.  These  truths  were  part  of 
him.  They  entered  into  his  decisions, 
his  philosophy,  his  contacts  with  his 
fellow  men,  his  literary  style,  and  his 
success  as  a  leader  of  the  nation.  And  so 
I  urge  the  reading  of  the  Bible.  It  is  a 
powerful  book  and  contains  treasures  of 
truth  which  are  vital  to  man's  develop- 
ment. It  is  a  strong  testimony  of  the 
existence  of  God  and  the  divine  mission 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

Read  the  Book  Itself 

May  I  suggest  that  you  turn  to  the 
book  itself  instead  of  reading  the  com- 
mentaries of  scholars  and  pretenders 
of  religion.  The  latter  will  not  satisfy, 
for  the  things  of  God  are  understood 
by  the  Spirit  of  God.  But  the  Bible 
should  be  read  searchingly  as  admon- 
ished by  Jesus.  It  is  and  has  been  a 
source  of  comfort  and  strength  in  times 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

of  sorrow  and  disappointment.  Its 
pages  are  filled  with  quotable  passages 
concerning  the  conduct  of  man  and 
his  spiritual  and  moral  well-being. 

The  influence  of  the  Bible  reaches 
into  the  laws  and  the  governments  of 
nations,  into  the  art,  literature,  and  folk- 
lore of  races  and  communities.  No  book 
has  wielded  a  wider  influence. 

Alters  the  Lives  of  Men  and  of  Nations 

I  need  not  tell  you  that  there  is  a 
peculiar  sanctity  and  force  about  its 
words.  In  it  are  the  messages  of  mighty 
prophets  who  ".  .  .  spake  as  they  were 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost."  (2 
Peter  1:21.)  History  has  proved  that 
the  Bible  has  altered  the  lives  of  men 
and  nations.  It  has  touched  deeply  the 
heart  of  humanity.  Public  men  who 
have  attained  to  eminence  in  our  own 
country  have  been  equipped  with  a 
knowledge  of  its  contents.  It  is  a  con- 
verter of  souls  to  a  better  life,  to  a  be- 
lief in  God  and  a  wholesome  respect 
for  his  laws  and  commandments. 

Green,  in  his  A  Short  History  of  the 
English  People,  gives  a  marvelous  tes- 
timony to  the  effect  of  the  printed 
Bible  during  the  reign  of  Queen  Eliza- 
beth I.  He  writes:  "No  greater  moral 
change  ever  passed  over  a  nation  than 
passed  over  England  during  the  years 
which  parted  the  middle  of  Elizabeth's 
reign  from  the  meeting  of  the  long  Par- 
liament. England  became  the  people 
of  a  hook,  and  that  book  was  the 
Bible.  Its  literary  and  social  effects 
were  great,  but  far  greater  was  the 
effect  of  the  Bible  on  the  character  of 
the  people  at  large.  Its  influence 
called  on  human  action.  The  whole 
temper  of  the  nation  felt  the  change. 
A  new  conception  of  life,  a  moral  and 
religious  impulse  spread  through  every 
class." 

It  was  the  Bible  that  led  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  into  the  presence  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son  and  opened  the 
door  to  a  new  gospel  dispensation.  Thou- 
sands of  people  have  been  brought  into 
the  Church  because  of  their  familiarity 
with  scriptural  teachings.  It  validates 
the  Book  of  Mormon  and  establishes  its 
divine  origin.  It  is  a  bulwark  against  the 
tyranny  of  infidelity  and  atheism. 

Desperate  attempts  have  been  made 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 


73 


by  its  enemies  to  minimize  and  discredit 
its  influence.  Fortunately,  they  have 
failed,  and  they  will  continue  to  fail. 
"Heaven  and  earth  shall  pass  away,  but 
my  words  shall  not  pass  away,"  said  the 
Savior.  (Matt.  24:35.)  The  Bible  will 
survive  the  onslaughts  of  the  adversary. 

The  time-honored  volume  is  a  pillar 
of  freedom.  From  its  pages  come  the  doc- 
trines of  equal  rights;  the  fatherhood  of 
God  and  the  brotherhood  of  man;  pa- 
tience, tolerance,  and  love;  the  dignity 
and  worth  of  the  human  soul;  and  the 
right  and  obligation  to  worship  God  and 
to  account  to  him  for  all  that  we  do, 
what  we  say,  and  what  we  think. 

I  believe  most  people  are  searching  for 
standards  and  beliefs  which  will  sustain 
them  through  life,  which  is  not  always 
sunshine  and  flowers.  For  some  it  is  hard 
and  cruel,  and  the  burden  is  heavy. 
Many  of  these  people  believe  in  God, 
but  they  do  not  have  the  firm  and  reso- 
lute conviction  to  carry  on.  Where  shall 
we  go  for  guidance  and  inspiration? 
Where  can  we  find  God  and  spiritu- 
ality? It  cannot  be  found  in  the  current 


literature  of  the  day.  It  cannot  be  found 
in  statistics  or  on  the  financial  page  of 
the  daily  newspaper.  Seldom  can  we 
find  it  in  the  colleges  and  the  universi- 
ties of  the  land  or  in  the  lecture  hall. 
There  is  only  one  source — one  only — 
and  that  is  in  the  revelations  of  God  to 
his  servants,  the  prophets.  The  biblical 
characters  are  men  who  walked  and 
talked  with  God.  There  is  much  to  learn 
from  them  and  the  distant  past.  Five 
thousand  years  of  human  experience 
should  offer  a  good  guideline  for  the 
modern  world.  May  we  search  the  Bible 
diligently,  eagerly,  and  prayerfully,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 
Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  Elder  Victor  L.  Brown  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  will  now  speak  to  us, 
and  he  will  be  followed  by  our  con- 
cluding speaker,  Elder  Franklin  D.  Rich- 
ards, Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


"One  Builds  Palaces  " 

In  President  McKay's  recent  book, 
Ancient  Apostles,  we  read:  "Character  is 
built  out  of  circumstances.  From  exactly 
the  same  materials,  one  man  builds  pal- 
aces while  another  builds  hovels."  Evi- 
dence of  the  truth  of  this  statement  is 
found  on  every  hand. 

In  the  current  issue  [October]  of  the 
Reader's  Digest,  there  is  a  thrilling 
article  written  by  Ira  Wolfert  entitled 
"The  Most  Phenomenal  Athletes  in 
History."  I  should  like  to  quote  some 
excerpts: 

"Hot  Rodders  indeed!  Among  the  boys 
and  girls  who  were  graduated  from  Cali- 
fornia's Santa  Clara  High  School  in 
June  are  four  national  swimming  cham- 
pions, two  of  whom  have  broken  four 
world  records.  Generally,  athletes  do 
not  reach  their  physical  peak  until  they 
are  in  their  late  twenties.  But  Don 
Schollander,  Donna  de  Varona,  Sharon 
Finneran  and  Terri  Stickles  were  still 
teen-agers  when  they  performed  their 


amazing  feats  of  speed,  strength,  stam- 
ina, and  co-ordination. 

"What  is  perhaps  most  extraordinary 
is  that  it  isn't  extraordinary  anymore, 
but  representative  of  what  today's 
youngsters  are  doing. . . . 

"It  will  be  front-page  news  around 
the  world  this  October  if  no  new  Olym- 
pic records  are  set  at  the  games  in  Tokyo. 
That  is  because,  as  athletes,  today's 
young  generation  is  the  most  phenome- 
nal in  history." 

Mr.  Wolfert  goes  on  to  say: 

"It's  the  same  story  on  dry  land.  Not 
one  Olympic  track  or  field  champion 
before  1932  could  qualify  on  the  basis  of 
his  winning  performance  for  a  place  in 
this  year's  games. 

"What  makes  the  difference?  Actually 
there  are  two  categories  of  athletic 
prowess  measured  by  the  records.  One  is 
inborn,  a  physical  gift  that  cannot  be 
taught,  can  only  be  perfected.  The  other 
involves  normal  physical  attributes  that 
have  been  trained  to  a  high  degree. 


74  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  3 

Olympic  events  test  both  kinds  of  ex- 
cellence. .  .  ." 
He  goes  on: 

"One  night  last  winter,  a  15-year-old 
boy,  Bill  McClellon  of  DeWitt  Clinton 
High  in  New  York  City,  walked  into  an 
armory  and,  as  a  novice  wearing  sneak- 
ers, leaped  from  a  hardwood  floor  to 
a  height  of  6  feet,  7  inches.  .  .  .  This 
lad  jumped  higher  in  his  first  competi- 
tion than  every  Olympic  champion  ex- 
cept one  before  19521" 

He  continues: 

"But  physical  genius  is  still  a  rarity. 
Ninety  percent  of  our  athletes  have  only 
the  talent  we  were  all  born  with.  They 
have  transformed  the  ordinary  into  the 
extraordinary  by  persistent  training. . . ." 
Or  in  the  words  of  President  McKay: 
"From  exactly  the  same  materials,  one 
man  builds  palaces  while  another  builds 
hovels." 

Just  two  more  quotes  from  the  article. 
Robert  Giegengack  of  Yale,  coach  of 
this  year's  United  States  Olympic  track 
and  field  team  said  of  some  of  his  ath- 
letes: 

"They  work  about  two  and  a  half 
times  as  hard  as  they  did  ten  years 
ago.  .  .  " 

Finally: 

"Amateur  athletes  generally  do  not 
make  a  career  out  of  their  special  abili- 
ties. The  training  involves  intense,  over- 
whelming preoccupation  with  oneself, 
and  usually  the  athlete  becomes  inter- 
ested in  other  things.  But  meanwhile, 
the  revolution  in  training  methods  is 
giving  the  kids  something  much  more 
valuable  than  a  knowledge  of  their 
bodily  prowess.  Coach  Giegengack  put  it 
this  way:  Not  too  long  ago,  he  said, 
when  a  'hopeless'  case  who  obviously 
didn't  have  it  tried  out  for  one  of  his 
teams,  he'd  take  the  youth  aside  and 
gently  advise  him  to  devote  his  energies 
to  something  else.  He  no  longer  does 
that.  The  indispensable  'it'  required  for 
athletic  success  is  in  the  mind  rather 
than  the  body.  Anyone  can  be  good  who's 
willing  to  work  hard  enough."  (P.  151.) 

"If  He  is  Willing  to  Work 
Hard  Enough" 

Anyone  can  build  a  palace  rather  than 
a  hovel  if  he  is  willing  to  work  hard 
enough.  If  we  applied  the  principles  used 


Second  Hay 

in  making  Olympic  champions  to  all 
phases  of  our  lives,  the  transformation 
in  society  would  be  just  as  phenomenal. 

The  managing  director  of  one  of  the 
largest  banking  institutions  of  England, 
with  more  than  a  hundred  branches 
throughout  the  world,  says  that  out  of 
one  hundred  men  starting  on  an  even 
footing,  only  ten  ever  rise  above  the 
surface  of  the  business,  and  of  these 
ten,  not  more  than  one  ever  proves  him- 
self fit  to  hold  a  position  of  grave  re- 
sponsibility. He  says  that  inevitably  the 
cause  of  failure  is  the  disposition  to 
take  things  easy,  to  avoid  the  hard  tasks. 
Life  everywhere  consists  of  hard  jobs.  Men 
tackle  them,  but  the  aimless  crawler 
will  get  into  his  shell  and  decay. 

The  great  industrialist  Andrew  Car- 
negie said: 

"I  congratulate  poor  young  men  upon 
being  born  to  that  ancient  and  honor- 
able degree  which  renders  it  necessary 
that  they  should  devote  themselves  to 
hard  work." 

And  from  another  pen: 

"There  is  one  right  which  man  is 
generally  thought  to  possess  which  I  am 
confident  he  neither  does  nor  can  pos- 
sess, the  right  to  subsistence  when  his 
labor  will  not  fairly  purchase  it." 
(Thomas  R.  Malthus.) 

Someone  has  said: 

"The  man  who  goes  through  life  look- 
ing for  something  soft  can  often  find 
it  right  under  his  hat." 

Examples  of  Diligence  and 
Faithfulness 

Now  let  us  turn  to  another  aspect  of 
life,  one  that  is  not  limited  by  time  but 
rather  one  that  is  eternal.  Just  as  it  is 
necessary  for  the  athlete  to  work  hard 
at  his  training  and  for  the  successful 
executive  to  work  hard  at  his  business, 
so  it  is  necessary  for  all  of  us,  no  matter 
what  our  personal  activities  may  be,  to 
work  hard  at  living  the  kind  of  lives 
that  will  build  palaces  and  not  hovels. 

When  I  was  bishop  of  a  ward,  we 
called  one  of  our  members  to  be  the 
general  secretary  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood. He  was  one  of  the  finest  general 
secretaries  in  the  Church.  He  worked  at 
his  assignment.  Through  his  thorough- 
ness and  inspired  leadership,  almost  all 
of  the  boys  earned  their  Aaronic  Priest- 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 


75 


hood  awards,  became  Eagle  Scouts,  and 
went  on  missions. 

I  recall  a  former  stake  president  whose 
business  consistently  took  him  far  away 
from  home  a  great  deal  of  the  time.  He 
never  missed  his  church  meetings.  It  was 
often  necessary  for  him  to  return  home, 
attend  his  meetings  that  very  night,  and 
then  leave  again  immediately.  This 
meant  traveling  all  night  many  times. 
Expense  and  inconvenience  were  of  little 
consequence. 

I  know  two  counselors  to  stake  presi- 
dents who,  even  though  away  on  busi- 
ness to  distant  cities,  will  interrupt  their 
business  trips  to  return  just  to  attend  to 
their  church  meetings  and  then  return 
by  air  to  their  business  appointments. 
This  is  the  kind  of  devotion  to  responsi- 
bility that  makes  a  champion  of  leaders: 
the  women  who  accepts  the  call  to  be  the 
chorister  in  Primary,  even  though  she 
feels  inadequate,  and  sticks  at  it  week 
after  week  until  she  succeeds;  the  Sunday 
School  teacher  who  is  so  interested  in 
her  class  that  she  spends  hours  prepar- 
ing lessons  so  well  that  even  the  disinter- 
ested like  to  come;  the  drama  director 
who  is  so  patient  and  understanding  in 
teaching  our  people  to  perform  on  the 
stage;  the  Relief  Society  sister  who 
spends  hours  scrubbing  floors,  washing 
clothes,  serving  meals  for  a  sick  neigh- 
bor; the  12,000  young  men  and  women 


who  are  serving  as  missionaries  through- 
out the  world  for  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  young  people 
who  are  giving  of  themselves  to  their 
fellow  men,  champions  of  the  first 
degree;  and,  of  course,  the  example  of 
our  beloved  President  who  at  91  still 
does  not  find  time  to  take  a  vacation 
from  his  responsibilities  but  continues 
to  work  hard  without  sparing  himself 
for  a  moment. 

Just  as  the  athletes  are  training  so 
well  for  the  Olympic  competition,  so  are 
these  loyal  devoted  members  of  the 
Church  training  for  a  far  more  impor- 
tant contest.  Each  in  his  own  way  is 
taking  the  same  material  and  building 
palaces  rather  than  hovels. 

May  God  bless  each  one  of  us  that 
we  may  set  our  sights  high  and  then  be 
willing  to  work  hard  enough  to  be  good, 
good  enough  to  build  palaces  and  not 
hovels. 

I  bear  my  humble  witness  that  Jesus 
Christ  lives  and  that  he  directs  this, 
his  Church,  through  his  servant  and  our 
President  and  Prophet,  David  O.  McKay, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

We  have  just  heard  from  Bishop 
Victor  L.  Brown.  Elder  Franklin  D. 
Richards,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will 
be  our  concluding  speaker. 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  appear 
before  you  today  with  a  humble  heart 
and  rejoice  with  you  in  the  spirit  and 
proceedings  of  this  great  conference.  I 
have  recently  returned  from  an  assign- 
ment to  the  stakes  and  missions  in 
Samoa,  Fiji,  New  Zealand,  and  Aus- 
tralia, and  I  bring  you  the  greetings  and 
the  love  of  the  Saints  and  missionaries 
in  these  wonderful  areas. 

The  Prophet  Leads  Us 

I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  I  have 
had  of  meeting  with  the  people  of  the 
South  Pacific  and  bearing  to  them,  as 
I  do  to  you  today,  my  testimony  that 
God  lives  and  is  mindful  of  all  of  his 


children;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  our 
Redeemer  and  Savior,  the  Only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Father  in  the  flesh;  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet,  commis- 
sioned to  be  the  instrument  through 
which  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  and 
authority  to  act  for  God  has  been  re- 
stored to  the  earth  in  this  dispensation. 
I  always  rejoice  in  bearing  witness  that 
we  are  led  and  guided  by  a  great  prophet 
today,  our  beloved  President  David  O. 
McKay;  and  may  the  Lord  bless  and 
sustain  him  and  strengthen  him. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  is  progressing 
in  the  South  Pacific  areas  at  an  accel- 
erated rate.  I  found  the  same  wonderful 
spirit  and  the  same  problems  facing  the 
people  and  the  Church  there  as  else- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


76 

Saturday,  October  3 

where.  We  can  be  grateful,  however, 
that  throughout  the  ages  God  has  coun- 
has  admonished  his  people  through  his 
seled  his  people  and  helped  them  to 
solve  their  problems. 

Order  and  Diligence 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  as  God 
prophets,  two  words  have  frequently  ap- 
peared— order  and  diligence. 

King  Benjamin,  in  concluding  a  great 
address  to  his  people,  said,  "And  see  that 
all  these  things  are  done  in  wisdom  and 
order;  for  it  is  not  requisite  that  a  man 
should  run  faster  than  he  has  strength 
...  it  is  expedient  that  he  should  be 
diligent,  that  thereby  he  might  win  the 
prize;  therefore,  all  things  must  be  done 
in  order."  (Mosiah  4:27.) 

In  this  dispensation  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  Lord  has  told 
us  that  his  ".  .  .  house  is  a  house  of 
order,  . . .  and  not  a  house  of  confusion" 
(D&C  132:8),  and  that  every  man 
should  learn  his  duty,  and  "...  act  in 
the  office  in  which  he  is  appointed,  in 
all  diligence."  (Ibid.,  107:99.) 

When  called  upon  to  accept  an  assign- 
ment in  the  Church  which  is  an  impor- 
tant part  of  building  the  kingdom  of 
God,  many  people  wonder  how  they  can 
give  the  time  and  attention  necessary  to 
fulfil  the  assignment  properly  and  also 
meet  their  family  obligations. 

Today  there  are  so  many  things  to  do 
so  many  things  crowding  us.  In  this  en- 
vironment the  words  order  and  diligence 
are  key  words  to  success  and  happiness 
regardless  of  the  activity  we  are  engaged 
in. 

In  meeting  with  stake  and  mission 
leaders  and  other  individuals,  I  fre- 
quently ask  them  what  their  greatest 
needs  are.  Almost  invariably  they  reply 
that  among  their  greatest  needs  is  "better 
organization  of  their  time  and  work" — 
or  in  effect  more  order  and  diligence. 

And  it  is  not  infrequent  that  many  ask 
the  question,  "How  does  one  develop 
the  traits  of  order  and  diligence?"  Presi- 
dent McKay  has  given  us  some  good 
advice  in  this  connection.  He  said, 
"Don't  be  too  busy  to  meditate,  and 
when  the  answer  comes  have  the  courage 
to  execute  it." 

Order  commences  with  meditation; 
and  meditation  includes  thinking,  an- 
alyzing, prayer,  fasting  if  needs  be,  and 


Second  £>aij 

always  planning.  Meditating  requires 
that  time  be  regularly  set  aside  to  con- 
sider the  things  that  you  think  you  have 
to  do.  Many  times  you  find  you  have 
more  to  do  than  you  can  do  in  the 
time  available. 

To  develop  an  orderly  pattern  you 
must  consider  the  things  facing  you, 
analyze  their  importance,  and  list  them 
in  the  order  of  their  importance.  After 
the  things  of  prime  importance  are  se- 
lected, develop  a  plan  to  accomplish 
these  more  important  matters. 

Planning  involves  further  analysis 
and  developing  of  effective  ways  which 
will  save  time  and  simplify  the  opera- 
tion involved.  Prayer  is  always  desirable 
in  planning  the  effective  use  of  time. 

Many  are  prone  to  do  the  easy  things 
and  give  those  matters  attention  that 
seem  to  be  the  most  pressing  regardless 
of  whether  they  are  the  most  important 
or  not,  but  through  meditation,  prayer, 
and  planning  you  can  select  what  might 
be  called  the  first  things  to  do  and  work 
out  effective  ways  to  do  them. 

First  Things 

Undoubtedly  the  two  most  important 
first  things  for  us  to  do  in  this  life  are 
to  provide  for  our  families  and  to  assist 
in  building  the  kingdom  of  God.  As  we 
select  first  things  and  put  them  in  pre- 
ferred positions  and  work  out  a  plan  to 
accomplish  them,  we  are  developing 
orderly  habits  which  will  make  it  pos- 
sible to  serve  in  the  Church  and  properly 
care  for  our  families. 

In  building  the  kingdom  of  God  the 
Lord  has  said  that  we  should  first  learn 
our  duty.  (See  D&C  107:99.)  He  has 
counseled  us  to  seek  out  of  the  best  books 
words  of  wisdom  and  to  seek  learning 
even  by  study  and  by  faith.  (See  ibid., 
88:118.)  Study  should  be  rated  among 
those  things  of  first  importance.  In  or- 
ganizing our  time  and  work,  time  should 
be  regularly  allotted  for  personal  study 
as  well  as  study  with  our  families. 

In  any  successful  endeavor  we  learn 
our  duty  by  having  a  clear  understand- 
ing of  our  responsibilities.  Moses  in 
speaking  to  his  people  charged  them, 
"And  thou  shalt  write  upon  the  stones 
all  the  words  of  this  law  very  plainly." 
(Deut.  27:8.)  In  this  manner  Israel 
could  learn  its  duties.  Instructions 
from  leaders  should  be,  as  Moses  said, 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 


77 


plain,  in  order  that  those  affected  might 
easily  learn  their  duties.  Plainness  gen- 
erally incorporates  simplicity.  Simple 
things  are  readily  understood.  The  gos- 
pel is  simple  and  was  taught  by  the 
Savior  in  a  simple  and  beautiful  way. 
Simplification  brings  better  understand- 
ing and  provides  more  time  by  eliminat- 
ing unessentials. 

We  must  provide  time  to  be  with  our 
families  and  to  do  things  together.  In 
planning  the  use  of  your  time,  I  counsel 
you  to  spend  as  much  time  as  possible 
regularly  with  your  families — say  at 
least  two  nights  each  week.  As  parents 
our  obligation  to  our  families  not  only 
includes  seeing  that  they  are  fed, 
clothed,  and  educated,  but  that  their 
spiritual  needs  are  taken  care  of  as  well. 
Certainly  a  good  part  of  this  must  be 
done  personally,  such  as  having  a  weekly 
family  night,  taking  vacations  together, 
and  going  to  Sacrament  meeting  as  a 
family. 

Diligence 

By  selecting  first  things  to  do  and 
working  out  a  plan  to  do  them  first,  we 
have  taken  an  important  step  toward 
accomplishing  them.  This  is  where 
diligence  plays  a  big  part.  When  the 
Lord  counseled  us  to  perform  our  assign- 
ments in  all  diligence,  he  meant  whether 
it  was  convenient  or  not. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said,  "that 
a  religion  that  does  not  require  the 
sacrifice  of  all  earthly  things  never  has 
power  sufficient  to  produce  the  faith 
necessary  unto  life  and  salvation." 
(Sixth  Lecture  on  Faith.) 

To  perform  our  assignments  diligently, 
sacrifice  of  our  time,  talents,  and  means 
is  frequently  required,  but  we  know  that 
sacrifice  brings  forth  the  blessings  of 
heaven.  We  are  entitled  to  the  blessings 
which  are  predicated  upon  obedience  to 
this  principle  of  sacrifice.  The  Lord  has 
said,  "I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye 
do  what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what 
I  say,  ye  have  no  promise."  (D&C  82: 
10.) 

To  be  diligent  in  our  work  also  means 
to  be  effective  and  not  just  busy.  The 
Lord  recognized  this  difference  between 
just  being  busy  and  being  effective  when 
in  1831  the  elders  were  traveling  down 
the  Missouri  River  in  canoes.  The  Lord 


said  at  that  time,  ".  .  .  it  is  not  needful 
for  this  whole  company  of  mine  elders  to 
be  moving  swiftly  upon  the  waters, 
whilst  the  inhabitants  on  either  side  are 
perishing  in  unbelief."  (Ibid.,  61:3.)  Just 
as  it  was  unnecessary  for  all  of  the  elders 
to  be  moving  swiftly  upon  the  waters, 
so  it  is  with  us — it  is  not  necessary  to 
do  many  unessential  things  that  keep  us 
busy  but  result  in  little  or  no  real  bene- 
fit to  anyone. 

Being  diligent  also  requires  faith  in 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  in  ourselves, 
and  making  up  our  minds  to  be  orderly 
and  diligent  is  a  good  part  of  having 
faith  in  ourselves.  Even  though  our  as- 
signments seem  difficult,  as  we  develop 
our  faith  and  persevere,  we  are  able  to 
achieve  our  righteous  objectives. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  frequently 
quoted  from  Emerson:  "That  which  we 
persist  in  doing  becomes  easy  to  do,  not 
that  the  nature  of  the  thing  has  changed 
but  that  our  power  to  do  has  increased." 

To  be  diligent  one  must  learn  to  per- 
severe— yes,  to  endure  to  the  end.  But 
we  might  ask,  to  the  end  of  what?  Can 
we  endure  to  the  end  of  a  day  with  the 
same  dedication  and  enthusiasm  we  had 
at  the  beginning  of  the  day  even  though 
faced  with  frustrations  and  problems. 
Each  year  has  365  days,  and  each  day  has 
twenty-four  hours,  each  requiring  endur- 
ing to  the  end.  However,  remember  what 
King  Benjamin  said:  ".  .  .  it  is  not  re- 
quisite that  a  man  should  run  faster 
than  he  has  strength."  (Mosiah  4:27.) 
He  undoubtedly  meant  mental,  physical, 
financial,  or  spiritual  strength,  or  all 
combined. 

Survey  Large  Fields;  Cultivate  Small 

In  all  phases  of  my  personal  experi- 
ence I  have  found  it  wise  to  survey  large 
fields  but  cultivate  small  ones.  In  sur- 
veying large  fields  one  in  effect  makes 
a  master  plan  which  he  later  develops  in 
orderly  stages.  This  is  a  sound  way  to 
build  and  avoid  many  disappointments 
which  can  result  from  overextending 
oneself.  Surveying  large  fields  and 
cultivating  small  ones  involves  the  prin- 
ciples of  order  and  diligence  and  results 
in  growth  and  development.  These  are 
basic  principles  of  eternal  progression. 

As  we  increase  our  personal  effective- 
ness, we  increase  our  effectiveness  in  our 


78 

Saturday,  October  3 

church  assignments,  and  one  of  the  great 
needs  today  in  building  the  kingdom  of 
God  is  effective  leaders.  The  Savior  has 
told  us  that  "Not  every  one  that  saith 
unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  heaven;  but  he  that 
doeth  the  will  of  my  Father.  .  .  ."  (Matt. 
7:21.)  Note  the  words  ".  .  .  doeth  the 
will  of  my  Father.  .  .  ." 

Finally,  again  I  cite  the  words  of  King 
Benjamin,  ".  .  .  it  is  expedient  that  he 
should  be  diligent,  that  thereby  he  might 
win  the  prize;  therefore,  all  things  must 
be  done  in  order."  (Mosiah  4:27.) 

I  bear  witness,  and  I  know  that  the 
witness  I  bear  is  true,  that  through  order 
and  diligence  we  can  work  in  the 
Church  and  properly  take  care  of  our 
families  and  win  the  prize  of  eternal 
life — of  peace,  happiness,  and  success 
through  eternal  progress. 

May  we  this  day  resolve  to  apply  these 
basic  principles  of  order  and  diligence 
in  our  lives  and  win  the  most  worth- 
while prize  of  all — eternal  life — I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards  has  been 
our  concluding  speaker. 

The  regular  general  session  meeting 
of  our  priesthood  of  the  Church  will  be 
held  here  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
this  evening  at  seven  o'clock.  Priesthood 
members  only  are  invited  to  be  present. 
The  priesthood  session  will  not  be 
broadcast  publicly,  but  in  addition  to 
the  overflow  meeting  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  the  proceedings  of  this  priesthood 
meeting  will  be  relayed  by  closed  circuit 
broadcast  originating  in  the  Tabernacle 
to  members  of  the  Aaronic  and  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  assembled  in  400 
separate  locations  in  all  parts  of  the 
United  States  and  in  Canada.  It  is  esti- 
mated that  approximately  12,000  holders 
of  the  priesthood  will  be  on  Temple 
Square  and  approximately  60,000  others 
will  be  gathered  in  other  locations  from 
coast  to  coast  and  in  Canada. 

The  Sunday  morning  session  at  ten 
o'clock  will  be  broadcast  by  many  radio 
and  television  stations  in  the  West, 
short-wave  in  England  over  Station 
WRUL  beamed  by  five  transmitters 
near  Boston  to  Europe,  South  America, 
Central  America,  Africa,  and  parts  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Asia.  This  session  will  also  be  broad- 
cast during  early  morning  hours  over 
KSL  and  KIRO  radio  at  Seattle,  and 
will  be  heard  by  members  of  the  Church 
in  Canada,  New  Zealand,  Australia,  and 
many  Islands  of  the  Pacific. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  Tabernacle 
Choir  broadcast  tomorrow  morning  will 
be  from  8:35  to  9:00  a.m.  Those  desiring 
to  attend  this  broadcast  must  be  in  their 
seats  not  later  than  8:15. 

Elder  Thomas  S.  Monson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  the  speaker 
on  the  Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  on 
CBS  Radio  tomorrow  at  7:35  o'clock. 

There  will  be  large  crowds  attending 
the  services  on  Sunday.  We  ask  you  to 
please  be  courteous,  gracious,  to  one 
another  at  all  times,  and  especially  when 
standing  at  the  entrance  of  the  Taber- 
nacle and  when  driving  automobiles. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  com- 
bined Choruses,  who  have  furnished 
this  lovely  music  under  the  direction  of 
Maughan  McMurdie,  with  Roy  M.  Dar- 
ley  at  the  organ,  will  now  sing  "The 
Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire  is  Burning." 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Weldon  V.  Moore,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Australian  Mission,  and  then 
this  Conference  will  stand  adjourned 
until  the  General  Priesthood  Meeting 
this  evening  and  the  General  Session 
tomorrow  morning  at  ten  o'clock. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

After  the  singing  of  that  favorite  hymn 
in  such  an  inspiring  manner  I  am  im- 
pelled to  say  just  a  word  to  the  mem- 
bers of  this  Chorus.  I  would  like  to  turn 
around  and  face  them  but  if  I  did  they 
couldn't  hear  me. 

When  I  listen  to  the  Singing  Mothers 
I  am  stirred  to  the  depths.  When  I  listen 
to  the  Tabernacle  Choir  I  am  lifted  to 
the  heights.  But  this  afternoon  these 
young  people  have  brought  us  very  close 
to  heaven  as  they  have  sung  and  shouted 
"Hosanna  to  God  and  the  Lamb." 

I  wanted  to  say  just  a  word,  because 
I  know  that  President  McKay  invariably 
has  something  to  say  to  the  young 
people,  and  especially  to  the  choruses 
who  sing  for  us.  His  heart  is  with  them. 
You  young  people  have  his  love,  his 
blessing,  and  his  confidence.  God  help 
you  and  bless  you  as  you  compete,  not 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


79 


in  the  Olympics,  but  in  the  greatest 
game  of  all,  the  game  of  life.  God  bless 
you  young  folk,  that  you  may  be  equal 
to  any  emergency,  that  you  may  qualify 
yourselves  for  the  great  mission  that  lies 
ahead  of  you,  that  you  may  realize  that 
today  there  are  millions  of  young  people 
of  your  age  being  systematically  indoc- 


trinated with  the  abominable  idea  that 
there  is  no  God,  that  Christ  is  a  myth 
and  religion  is  an  opiate. 

We  thank  you  very  much  for  your 
contribution,  and  may  the  spirit  of  this 
occasion,  climaxed  by  that  last  anthem, 
be  with  you  while  you  live  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

This  is  the  General  Priesthood  Session 
of  the  134th  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  As  you  can  see,  and  those 
who  are  not  present  will  wish  to  know, 
President  David  O.  McKay  will  be  pre- 
siding at  this  meeting  although  he  can- 
not be  present.  He  sends  his  love  and 
blessing  to  all  and  later  in  the  service 
we  will  have  a  message  from  him. 

It  may  interest  you  to  know  that 
these  services  are  being  relayed  by  closed 
circuit  to  members  of  the  priesthood 
gathered  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
400  other  separate  gatherings  from  coast 
to  coast  and  in  Canada.  It  is  estimated 
that  approximately  60,000  will  parti- 
cipate in  this  meeting  tonight  by  direct 
wire.  This  does  not  include  the  12,000 
gathered  in  this  building  and  in  the 
Assembly  Hall. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Men  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  with  Richard  P.  Condie 
as  conductor  and  Alexander  Schreiner 
at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Chorus  singing  "Prayer  at  Evening," 
Brother  Condie  conducting,  and  after 
the  singing  Elder  Robert  S.  Taylor, 
formerly  president  of  the  Southern  Far 
East  Mission,  will  offer  the  invocation. 

We  have  been  requested  from  two 
different  sources  to  remember  the  people 
in  the  New  Orleans  Stake.  The  leader- 
ship of  the  New  Orleans  Stake  has  re- 
quested that  the  safety  of  their  people  be 


mentioned  in  prayer  tonight  as  they  are 
at  this  moment  struggling  through  a 
devastating  hurricane  that  has  already 
taken  many  lives.  We  will  ask  Brother 
Taylor  to  remember  them  especially  in 
his  prayer  this  evening. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

For  the  benefit  of  those  listening  in 
in  various  places,  the  opening  prayer 
was  offered  by  Elder  Robert  S.  Taylor, 
formerly  president  of  the  Southern  Far 
East  Mission. 

Under  the  direction  of  Brother  Condie 
the  men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  will 
now  favor  us  with  the  "Pilgrim's 
Chorus." 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

I  am  sure  we  all  greatly  appreciate  the 
efforts  of  the  men  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  Their  singing  is  glorious  and 
inspiring. 

Our  first  speaker  this  evening  will  be 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  The  President  of  the  Church 
has  asked  Brother  Lee  to  present  a  mes- 
sage to  you  tonight  of  interest  and 
importance  to  all  members  of  the  priest- 
hood. It  has  the  endorsement  and  sup- 
port of  the  First  Presidency  and  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  I  am  sure 
you  will  wish  to  listen  attentively  and 
make  some  notes,  because  there  will  be 
some  responsibility  in  connection  with 
his  discourse. 

We  shall  now  be  glad  to  hear  from 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee. 


80 

Saturday,  October  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Second  Day 


A  week  ago  this  afternoon  I  spent  a 
glorious  hour  in  President  McKay's 
apartment  office  considering  the  sub- 
ject about  which  he  wished  me  to  talk: 
the  presentation  of  what  he  said  our 
leaders  have  been  talking  about  for 
fifty  years — the  importance  of  teach- 
ing the  gospel  in  the  home.  He  indi- 
cated that  this  would  be  something  of 
a  theme  in  this  general  priesthood 
meeting  tonight. 

Theme  of  Fifty  Years 

With  that  much  of  a  lead  or  a  guide 
to  what  I  might  say,  I  thought  it  wise 
to  take  a  look  backward  to  pick  up  the 
thread  of  thinking  of  our  leaders  over 
this  fifty-year  period  and  glean  from 
the  wisdom  of  the  past  a  guide  to  our 
plans  for  the  present  as  well  as  the 
future. 

I  thought  to  begin  that  review  most 
properly  we  should  give  to  you  again 
what  you  have  heard  and  read  in  some 
of  our  official  handbooks,  the  letter 
from  the  First  Presidency  a  few  years 
ago  which  actually  laid  the  foundation 
and  indicated  the  direction  that  the 
correlation  program  should  take.  And 
so  I  thought  that  probably  I  should 
read  again  one  or  two  paragraphs  by 
which  you  can  follow  the  plan  by  which 
the  correlation  is  being  developed.  I 
quote  from  that  letter: 

"Home  the  Basis  of  the 
Righteous  Life" 

"The  home  is  the  basis  of  a  right- 
eous life  and  no  other  instrumentality 
can  take  its  place  nor  fulfil  its  essen- 
tial functions;  the  utmost  the  auxil- 
iaries can  do  is  to  aid  the  home  in  its 
problems,  giving  special  aid  and  succor 
where  such  is  necessary,  that  in  aiding 
the  home  the  auxiliaries  may  well  con- 
sider thinking  of  the  home-life  of  the 
people  as  having  three  periods,  the 
first,  from  birth  to  twelve  years  of  age 
or  the  childhood  period;  then  the  youth 
period  from  twelve  years  up  to  the 
early  twenties;  and  then  adulthood, 
from  the  early  twenties  on  to  the  end 
of  life. 


".  .  .  We  feel  assured  that  if  the 
whole  Church  curricula  were  viewed 
from  the  vantage  point  of  what  we 
might  term  the  total  purpose  of  each 
and  all  of  these  [priesthood  quorums 
and  auxiliaries],  it  would  bring  about 
such  a  collation  and  limitation  of  sub- 
jects and  subject  matters  elaborated 
in  various  Auxiliary  courses  as  would 
tend  to  the  building  of  efficiency  in 
the  Auxiliaries  themselves  in  the  mat- 
ter of  carrying  out  the  purposes  lying 
behind  their  creation  and  function. 

"We  would  therefore  commend  to 
you  Brethren  of  the  General  Priesthood 
Committee  the  beginning  of  an  exhaus- 
tive, prayerful  study  and  consideration 
of  this  entire  subject,  with  the  co-op- 
erative assistance  of  the  Auxiliaries 
themselves  so  that  the  Church  might 
reap  the  maximum  harvest  from  the 
devotion  of  the  faith,  intelligence,  skill 
and  knowledge  of  our  various  Auxiliary 
Organizations  and  Priesthood  Com- 
mittees." (Conference  Report,  April 
1963,  pp.  82-83.) 

Correlation  to  Strengthen  the  Home 

That's  the  end  of  the  quotation. 

In  those  instructions  there  were  four 
important  factors  named  in  develop- 
ing effective  correlation.  First,  we 
must  see  that  the  whole  effort  of  cor- 
relation is  to  strengthen  the  home  and 
to  give  aid  to  the  home  in  its  prob- 
lems, giving  it  special  aid  and  succor 
as  needed. 

Priesthood  Totally  Employed 

Second,  the  strength  of  the  priest- 
hood must  be  fully  employed  within 
the  total  responsibility  of  priesthood 
quorums  as  clearly  set  forth  in  the  reve- 
lations. 

Auxiliary  Organizations  Also 

Third,  we  must  survey  the  purposes 
lying  behind  the  creation  and  purpose 
of  each  auxiliary  organization. 

Knowledge  of  Gospel  to  be  Enhanced 

And  fourth,  the  prime  and  ultimate 
objective  of  all  that  is  done  is  the 


ELDER  HA1 

building  up  of  a  knowledge  of  the  gos- 
pel, a  power  to  promulgate  the  same, 
a  promotion  of  the  faith,  growth,  and 
stronger  testimony  of  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  among  the  members  of 
the  Church. 

Correlation 

Now,  to  give  you  just  a  quick  state- 
ment as  to  the  progress  that  has  been 
made  up  until  now.  We  have  en- 
deavored to  proceed  as  a  Correlation 
Committee  in  an  orderly  and  logical 
manner:  first,  by  placing  the  priesthood 
quorums  as  the  Lord  has  directed  us 
in  his  revelations;  second,  by  giving 
strength  to  the  home  in  ways  that  I 
will  presently  outline  as  they  have  been 
approved  by  the  First  Presidency  and 
the  Twelve;  and  third,  by  a  total  cor- 
relation of  the  curricula  and  activities 
of  all  the  organizations,  priesthood, 
auxiliaries,  institutes,  and  seminaries. 
This  last  phase  is  now  in  its  final 
stages  of  development  looking  toward 
full  implementation. 

Organization  and  Functioning 

One  of  the  musts  in  this  fully  co- 
ordinated church  program  is  to  get  our 
leaders — the  General  Authorities,  gen- 
eral boards,  stake,  mission,  ward,  and 
branch  authorities — to  "think"  corre- 
lation through  these  three  heaven- 
ordained  institutions  instead  of  diverting 
to  a  fringe  committee  of  some  sort  for 
a  certain  activity  or  instruction  which 
might  well  have  been  encompassed 
within  the  boundaries  of  the  completely 
correlated  priesthood,  home,  and  aux- 
iliary responsibilities. 

We  have  witnessed  a  tendency  to  use 
in  some  cases  the  correlation  program 
of  home  teaching,  for  example,  as  the 
"whipping  boy"  for  any  deficiencies  in 
the  performance  of  the  various  organi- 
zations as  compared  to  its  previous 
figures,  and  some  would  have  us  be- 
lieve that  it  is  the  home  teaching  pro- 
gram that  has  caused  that  downgrading 
of  comparative  statistical  figures. 

Every  auxiliary  and  priesthood 
leader  in  the  Church  is  given  a  voice 
in  the  functioning  of  each  organization 
with  the  home  teachers  to  see  that 
every  church  member  is  given  atten- 
tion as  needed. 


)LD  B.  LEE  81 

The  real  fault  in  many  cases  is  with 
the  leader  who  in  the  monthly  ward 
council  meeting  should  have  aided  in 
perfecting  the  most  effective  correla- 
tion of  his  particular  organization 
with  home  teaching.  We  would  like 
those  things  kept  in  mind  by  all  of  you 
leaders  as  you  move  these  programs 
forward. 

In  all  this  we  recognize  that  we  must 
teach  and  reteach  with  patience  and 
long-suffering  until  the  basic  funda- 
mentals of  correlation  are  fully  un- 
derstood and  applied  in  every  ward, 
priesthood  quorum,  and  auxiliary  or- 
ganization, to  the  end  that,  hopefully, 
every  General  Authority,  and  stake,  and 
mission  authority  will  catch  the  vision 
of  the  possibilities  of  a  concentrated 
effort  of  church  organization  in  a 
mighty  answer  to  the  problems  afflict- 
ing the  world  in  which  we  live. 

Restatement  of  Fundamentals 

Now,  we  should  make  a  restatement 
and  recitation  of  those  fundamentals 
which  are  essential  always  to  our 
learning  in  the  Lord's  work.  In  de- 
fining the  fields  in  which  the  priest- 
hood quorums  must  take  precedence: 
First,  by  a  careful  reading  of  the  revela- 
tions we  have  found  this: 

"The  duty  of  the  elders,  priests, 
teachers,  deacons,  and  members  of  the 
church  of  Christ — An  apostle  is 
an  elder,  and  it  is  his  calling  to  bap- 
tize; .  .  . 

"And  to  teach,  expound,  exhort,  bap- 
tize, and  watch  over  the  church;  .  .  . 

"The  priest's  duty  is  to  preach, 
teach,  expound,  exhort,  and  baptize, 
and   administer  the  sacrament, 

"And  visit  the  house  of  each  mem- 
ber, and  exhort  them  to  pray  vocally 
and  in  secret  and  attend  to  all  family 
duties.  .  .  . 

"The  teacher's  duty  is  to  watch  over 
the  church  always,  and  be  with  and 
strengthen  them;  .  .  . 

"And  is  to  be  assisted  always,  in  all 
his  duties  in  the  church,  by  the  dea- 
cons, if  occasion  requires."  (D&C  20: 
38,  42,  46-47,  53,  57.) 

After  the  Lord  had  given  these  plain 
instructions,  one  of  the  great  reve- 
lations on  priesthood  closed  with  this 


82  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  3 

great  admonition  with  which  you  should 
be  familiar. 

"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn 
his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in 
which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be 
counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that 
learns  not  his  duty  and  shows  himself 
not  approved  shall  not  be  counted 
worthy  to  stand."  (Ibid.,  107:99-100.) 

"Watching  Over  the  Church" 

Home  teaching  then  means  "watch- 
ing over  the  Church"  as  the  scriptures 
have  defined  it.  Missionary  work  is 
but  home  teaching  to  those  who  are 
not  now  members  of  the  Church,  and 
home  teaching  is  nothing  more  or  less 
than  missionary  work  to  church  mem- 
bers. 

Missionary  Function,  to  the  Seventy 

The  major  responsibility  in  mission- 
ary work  has  been  given  to  the  seven- 
ties quorums,  aided  by  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  Quorums  of  seventy,  we 
have  heard  during  our  entire  life- 
time, are  one  day  to  be  called  out  as 
quorums  to  preach  the  gospel,  and  some 
of  us  thought  that  meant  to  some  far- 
away country.  The  day  is  here  when 
seventies  are  being  called  as  quorums, 
where  every  member  of  the  seventies 
quorum  can  engage  in  some  phase  of 
missionary  work.  We  remember  again 
what  the  Lord  said,  that  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  should  call  upon  the  sev- 
enties when  in  need  of  assistance  to 
fill  the  various  calls  for  preaching  and 
administering  the  gospel  instead  of 
any  others.  This  is  not  to  be  construed 
to  lessen  the  feeling  of  every  member 
of  the  Church  to  be  a  missionary.  The 
missionary  plan  calls  for  the  Saints  to 
co-operate  fully  as  requested  and  led 
by  their  leaders.  In  stakes  which 
presently  have  few  seventies,  other 
priesthood  holders  must  be  assigned  to 
these  prime  missionary  duties. 

First,  before  I  pass  this  subject,  I 
should  call  attention  to  the  fact  that 
our  Aaronic  Priesthood  was  given  a 
very  vital  place  in  the  revela- 
tions where  the  Lord  told  us: 

"Therefore,  take  with  you  those  who 
are  ordained  unto  the  lesser  priest- 
hood, and  send  them  before  you  to 


Second  Day 

make  appointments,  and  to  prepare  the 
way,  and  to  fill  appointments  that  you 
yourselves  are  not  able  to  fill. 

"Behold,  this  is  the  way  that  mine 
apostles,  in  ancient  days,  built  up  my 
church  unto  me."   (Ibid.,  84:107-108.) 

Youth  Missionary  Assignment 

And  that  becomes  now  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  youth  missionary  commit- 
tee— a  priest,  a  teacher,  and  a  deacon, 
with  the  bishopric  heading  up  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  aided  by  the  girls  of 
comparable  ages.  They  now  are  to  en- 
list and  to,  shall  I  say,  proselyte  their 
friends  and  bring  them  into  church  ac- 
tivity programs. 

Genealogical  Assignment 

In  the  genealogical  work,  we  recall 
the  words  of  the  Prophet  Joseph:  "The 
greatest  responsibility  in  this  world 
that  God  has  laid  upon  us  is  to  seek 
after  our  dead."  (Teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  p.  356.)  And 
then  in  a  great  revelation  the  Lord 
said: 

"Now  the  great  and  grand  secret  of 
the  whole  matter,  and  the  summum 
bonum  of  the  whole  subject  that  is  ly- 
ing before  us,  consists  in  obtaining  the 
powers  of  the  Holy  Priesthood.  For 
him  to  whom  these  keys  are  given 
there  is  no  difficulty  in  obtaining  a 
knowledge  of  facts  in  relation  to  the 
salvation  of  the  children  of  men,  both 
as  well  for  the  dead  as  for  the  living." 
(D&C  128:11.) 

To  provide  an  effective  relation- 
ship with  the  priesthood,  the  high 
priests  group  leader  in  each  ward  has 
been  designated  as  an  adviser  to  the 
genealogical  work.  While  all  quorums 
have  responsibility  in  genealogical 
work,  the  leadership  and  co-ordination 
in  the  ward  rest  with  the  bishop  and 
the  high  priests  group  leader.  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  quorums  are  right 
now  engaged  in  studying  their  place  in 
the  genealogical  program  in  their  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  quorum  classes. 

Welfare  Assignment 

A  scripture  quoting  King  Benjamin 
has  long  been  quoted  describing  our 
welfare  program.  Now  we  apply  it  to 
the  priesthood  quorums:  "...  I  would 


ELDER  HAI 

that  ye  should  impart  of  your  sub- 
stance to  the  poor,"  he  said,  "every 
man  according  to  that  which  he  hath, 
such  as  feeding  the  hungry,  clothing 
the  naked,  visiting  the  sick  and  admin- 
istering to  their  relief,  both  spiritually 
and  temporally,  according  to  their 
wants."  (Mosiah  4:26.) 

Here  again,  while  all  quorums  are  to 
participate,  the  great  strength  of  the 
elders  quorums  of  the  Church  are 
specifically  charged  with  advisory  co- 
ordination of  church  welfare  under  the 
direction  of  the  bishop. 

Correlation  of  Curricula 

Moving  now  to  a  correlated  curricu- 
lum and  the  activities  of  the  priest- 
hood quorums,  the  fundamentals  of 
this  program,  as  I  have  told  you,  have 
already  been  predetermined;  what 
will  be  taught,  subjects  taught  from 
three-year-olds  up  to  the  oldest  adult, 
and  the  general  plan  have  already  been 
approved.  Our  committees  are  now 
working  on  a  fully  co-ordinated 
program  to  present  to  the  First 
Presidency.  We  are  hopeful  that  this 
will  be  accomplished  within  the  next 
year  or  so. 

Parents  and  the  Home 

In  all  of  these  studies  we  have  never 
had  absent  from  our  minds  the 
responsibilities  the  Lord  has  placed 
upon  the  parents  in  the  home  in  the 
teaching  of  our  children.  You  recall 
what  the  Lord  said: 

The  Divine  Charge  to  Parents 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents 
have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach 
them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of 
repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of 
the  living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on 
of  the  hands,  when  eight  years  old, 
the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  par- 
ents. 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized. 

"And  their  children  shall  be  bap- 
tized for  the  remission  of  their  sins 
when  eight  years  old,  and  receive  the 
laying  on  of  the  hands. 


)LD  B.  LEE  83 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their 
children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  up- 
rightly before  the  Lord. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall 
also  observe  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it 
holy. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  also 
shall  remember  their  labors,  inasmuch 
as  they  are  appointed  to  labor,  in  all 
faithfulness;  for  the  idler  shall  be  had 
in  remembrance  before  the  Lord." 
(D&C  68:25-30.) 

"Home  Evening"  Statement  of  1915 

The  instructions  to  which  I  have 
made  reference  and  about  which  Presi- 
dent McKay  spoke  were  given  about 
fifty  years  ago.  I  read  from  a  letter 
sent  out  to  the  Church  in  1915  over  the 
signature  of  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  and  Charles 
W.  Penrose.  But  I  suppose  it  is  some- 
thing like  Mark  Twain  said  about  the 
weather:  "We  talk  a  lot  about  the 
weather,  but  we  don't  seem  to  do  any- 
thing about  it."  Now  we  have  talked 
a  lot  about  family  home  evenings,  and 
this  is  the  announcement  which  was 
made.  After  I  have  given  you  this  I 
will  make  a  few  comments  and  then 
outline  the  program  by  which  we  are 
now  to  give  strength  to  the  teaching  of 
the  family  by  the  parents  in  the  home. 
This  is  a  quote  from  the  letter. 

"We  advise  and  urge  the  inaugura- 
tion of  a  'Home  Evening'  throughout 
the  Church,  at  which  time  father 
and  mother  may  gather  their  boys  and 
girls  about  them  in  the  home,  and  teach 
them  the  word  of  the  Lord.  .  .  . 
This  'Home  Evening'  should  be  de- 
voted to  prayer,  singing  hymns, 
songs,  instrumental  music,  scripture 
reading,  family  topics,  and  specific 
instructions  on  the  principles  of  the 
gospel,  and  on  the  ethical  problems  of 
life,  as  well  as  the  duties  and  obliga- 
tions of  children  to  parents,  the  home, 
the  Church,  society,  and  the  nation." 

Then  to  those  who  would  put  this 
family  home  hour  or  evening  into  prac- 
tice the  Presidency  made  this  promise: 

"If  the  Saints  obey  this  counsel,  we 
promise  that  great  blessings  will  re- 
sult. Love  at  home  and  obedience  to 
parents  will  increase.  Faith  will  be  de- 
veloped in  the  hearts  of  the  youth  of 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

Israel,  and  they  will  gain  power  to 
combat  the  evil  influences  and  tempta- 
tions which  beset  them." 

Assignment  to  Sunday  Schools 

Our  Sunday  School  organization  has 
been  helping  to  emphasize  this  impor- 
tant responsibility  by  articles  in  The 
Instructor  and  by  a  program  which 
they  have  entitled,  "Gospel  Living  in 
the  Home." 

Assignment  to  Primary  Association 

Our  Primary  organization  has  had 
what  they  have  called  a  Primary  Home 
Partnership,  by  which  the  lessons 
taught  in  Primary  are  carried  into 
the  home,  hopefully  to  become  a  part 
of  the  family  home  evening. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  in  com- 
menting about  the  responsibility  of 
parents  in  teaching  their  children,  said 
this: 

Counsel  of  the  Prophets 
on  Teaching  Children 

"Do  not  let  your  children  out  to 
specialists  in  these  things,  but  teach 
them  by  your  own  precept  and  ex- 
ample, by  your  own  fireside.  Be  a 
specialist  yourself  in  the  truth.  Let 
our  meetings,  schools  and  organi- 
zations, instead  of  being  our  only  or 
leading  teachers,  be  supplements  to 
our  teachings  and  training  in  the 
home.  Not  one  child  in  a  hundred 
would  go  astray,  if  the  home  environ- 
ment, example  and  training,  were  in 
harmony  with  the  truth  in  the  gospel 
of  Christ,  as  revealed  and  taught  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints."  (Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Gospel  Doctrine,  p.  302.) 

About  this  same  matter  President 
Wilford  Woodruff  said: 

"It  is  one  of  the  greatest  blessings 
that  God  ever  bestowed  upon  children 
that  they  have  had  parents  who  were 
in  possession  of  true  principles  in  re- 
lation to  their  Heavenly  Father,  sal- 
vation, eternal  life,  and  were  qualified 
and  capable  of  teaching  and  tradition- 
ating  their  children  in  the  same  that 
they  may  be  qualified  to  fulfil  the  ob- 
ject of  their  creation.  .  .  .  Ninety-nine 
out  of  every  hundred  children  who  are 
taught  by  their  parents  the  principles 
of  honesty  and  integrity,  truth  and  vir- 


Second  Day 

tue,  will  observe  them  through  life." 
(Discourses  of  Wilford  Woodruff,  pp. 
266-268.) 

And  then  from  President  Heber  J. 
Grant: 

"I  have  heard  men  and  women  say 
that  they  were  going  to  let  their  sons 
and  daughters  grow  to  maturity  be- 
fore they  sought  to  teach  them  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  that  they  were 
not  going  to  cram  the  gospel  down 
them  in  their  childhood,  before  they 
were  able  to  comprehend  it.  When  I 
hear  men  and  women  say  this,  I  think 
they  are  lacking  faith  in  the  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel  and  do  not  compre- 
hend it  as  they  should.  The  Lord  has 
said  it  is  our  duty  to  teach  our  children 
in  their  youth,  and  I  prefer  to  take 
His  word  for  it  rather  than  the  words 
of  those  who  are  not  obeying  His  com- 
mandments. It  is  folly  to  imagine  that 
our  children  will  grow  up  with  a 
knowledge  of  the  gospel  without 
teaching.  ...  I  may  know  that  the  gos- 
pel is  true,  and  so  may  my  wife;  but 
I  want  to  tell  you  that  our  children 
will  not  know  that  the  gospel  is  true, 
unless  they  study  it  and  gain  a  testi- 
mony for  themselves.  Parents  are  de- 
ceiving themselves  in  imagining  that 
their  children  will  be  born  with 
a  knowledge  of  the  gospel."  (Heber  J. 
Grant,  Gospel  Standards,  p.  155.) 

Lessons  for  Teaching  in  the  Homes 

This  next  year  will  see  some  defi- 
nite steps  taken  to  strengthen  the 
hands  of  the  parents  in  carrying  out 
these  great  God-given  admonitions  in 
placing  stress  upon  the  teaching  of  the 
gospel  in  the  home.  The  first  step  will 
be  to  give  every  parent  a  set  of  lessons, 
one  for  each  week  throughout  the 
coming  year,  for  them  to  teach  the  gos- 
pel to  their  family  in  the  home.  As  we 
have  talked  about  the  frequency  of 
this,  we  are  not  sure  whether  one  for 
every  week,  or  three  for  a  month,  or 
two  for  a  month,  or  one  a  month  may 
be  the  desirable,  but  we  call  your  at- 
tention to  this.  I  have  studied  the  pro- 
posed lessons  which  we  are  going  to 
have  studied  by  the  priesthood  quo- 
rums on  the  subject  of  what  the 
father's  responsibility  is  in  teaching 
the  gospel  in  the  home.  The  Relief  So- 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


85 


ciety  will  teach  a  similar  lesson  once 
a  month  in  the  Relief  Society  for  the 
mothers.  As  I  read  these  proposed 
lessons,  the  more  of  these  weekly  home 
lessons  we  can  have  taught  in  the 
home,  the  better  we  will  be  able  to  cor- 
relate with  the  priesthood  instruction 
and  the  Relief  Society  lessons. 

Auxiliary  Supporting  Publications 
Monthly 

There  will  be,  we  suppose,  some  op- 
tional activity.  We  are  asking  auxil- 
iary heads  to  publish  month  by  month 
next  year  suggestions  for  suitable  ac- 
tivities for  each  age  group  represented 
— the  Primary  for  little  children,  the 
Era  for  teenage  children,  the  Sunday 
School  for  both  old  and  young,  and  the 
Relief  Society  for  mothers  primarily. 
The  time  has  now  come  when  the 
General  Authorities  have  decided  to 
correlate  and  co-ordinate  all  of  these 
efforts  under  the  direction  of  the 
priesthood,  and  we  announce,  then,  a 
new  program  to  assist  parents  in  the 
teaching  of  the  gospel  in  the  home. 
This  program,  "Teaching  and  Living 
the  Gospel  in  the  Home,"  is  to  be  in- 
augurated throughout  the  Church  in 
January  1965.  As  an  example,  the  first 
four  lessons  for  Primary  children  are 
as  follows: 

"I  Am  a  Child  of  My  Heavenly  Fa- 
ther." 

"I  Am  a  Child  of  My  Heavenly  Father 
with  Special  Gifts  from  Him." 

"I  Am  a  Child  of  My  Heavenly  Father 
—His  Heir." 

"As  a  Child  of  My  Heavenly  Father 
I  Have  the  Right  to  Pray  to  Him." 

Melchizedek  Priesthood  Lessons 

The  Melchizedek  Priesthood  lessons, 
as  I  have  said,  will  be  given  through- 
out the  entire  year  of  1965  designed 
to  help  the  fathers  and  every  priest- 
hood holder  become  better  fathers  and 
husbands.  The  general  theme  of  these 
lessons  is  "Magnifying  the  Priesthood 
in  the  Home."  As  an  example,  the  first 
ten  lessons  are  as  follows: 
"Why    the    Church    Has  Initiated 

a  Family  Home  Evening  Program." 
"Studying  the  Scriptures." 
"Carrying  Out  the  Challenge  Relating 


to  the  Program  Given  in  Priesthood 
Meeting." 

"Activities  Outlined  in  Home  Pro- 
gram." 

"The  Eternal  Family  Is  One  of  the 
Most  Important  Ways  to  Obtain 
Lasting  Joy." 

"The  Family  and  the  Patriarchal  Or- 
der." 

"Providing  Opportunities  and  a  Prop- 
er Environment  for  the  Spirit  Children 
of  Our  Heavenly  Father  to  Come  to 
this  Earth." 

"Teaching  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  Children." 

"A  Basic  Unit  of  Society." 

"Making  Satisfactory  Adjustments  in 
Marriage." 

Relief  Society  Lessons  for  Mothers 

I  came  across  one  of  the  lessons  for 
the  Relief  Society  to  teach  mothers 
what  their  role  is  in  teaching  the  gos- 
pel in  the  home,  and  I  found  this  rather 
interesting  observation,  "How  often  in 
past  years  have  we  heard  a  Latter-day 
Saint  mother  say,  'I  wish  my  husband 
could  have  heard  the  discussion  today. 
Had  he  done  so,  I  am  sure  he  would 
feel  differently  about  a  particular 
problem  we  have  in  our  home.' "  It 
is  a  realistic  observation  that  with 
widely  divergent  points  of  view  the  ef- 
forts of  one  parent  often  may  nullify 
the  efforts  of  the  other  parent,  some- 
times with  great  detriment  to  the 
persons  involved  and  to  the  problems 
which  need  to  be  resolved.  The  first 
Relief  Society  lesson  is  entitled  "In- 
troduction for  Teaching  the  Gospel  in 
the  Home";  the  second  one,  "The  Eter- 
nal Family." 

Home  Evening  Manual 

Simultaneously  fathers  and  mothers 
will  be  taught,  and  the  home  teachers 
in  their  visits  to  the  homes  of  members 
in  December  1964  will  explain  the  new 
program  and  will  present  the  parents 
with  the  Home  Evening  Manual.  Ad- 
ditional instructions  and  suggestions 
will  be  given  to  the  home  teachers  dur- 
ing 1965  so  that  they  can  be  of  assist- 
ance to  the  parents  in  strengthening 
home  relationships. 


86  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  3 

The  Program's  Introduction 

In  order  to  introduce  this  program, 
it  is  proposed  that  at  one  of  the  first 
priesthood  meetings  after  this  general 
conference  there  be  a  program  carried 
out  to  introduce  to  the  priesthood  in 
each  stake  in  the  Church  the  family 
home  evening  program.  We  have  now 
material  which  will  be  sent  to  you  to 
give  you  suggestions  on  that  program. 

In  introducing  the  program  in  each 
ward  we  have  prepared  a  filmstrip  on 
the  family  home  evening  program 
which  may  be  available  to  every  stake 
and  through  the  stake  to  every  ward. 
The  major  objectives  of  the  filmstrip 
are  to  explain  the  family  home  evening 
program,  to  interest  and  motivate 
parents  in  implementing  the  program, 
and  to  demonstrate  to  parents  methods 
by  which  they  can  carry  out  the  program 
in  their  own  families. 

These  lessons  can  be  adapted,  and 
suggestions  will  be  made  in  order  to 
fit  every  age  child  in  the  home. 

With  that  much  having  been  said,  we 
would  like  to  call  your  attention  to 
what  the  Lord  has  said: 

"How  long  can  rolling  waters  remain 
impure?  What  power  shall  stay  the 
heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch 
forth  his  puny  arm  to  stop  the  Missouri 
river  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn 
it  up  stream,  as  to  hinder  the  Almighty 
from  pouring  down  knowledge  from 
heaven  upon  the  heads  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints."   (D&C  121:33.) 

The  Priesthood  to  Point  the  Way 

We  have  discovered  an  interesting 
fact  at  our  Mormon  Pavilion  at  the 
World's  Fair  in  New  York:  that  the 
great  strength  of  our  pavilion  as  a 
missionary  project  is  not  in  the  paint- 
ings, not  in  the  sculpture  work,  not 
in  the  film,  but  in  the  presentation  of 
the  missionaries  who  have  the  priest- 
hood of  God  and  in  the  wonderful  spirit 
which  our  missionaries  have. 

As  you  go  out  tomorrow  look  to  the 
east,  just  underneath  the  west  towers 
of  the  great  Salt  Lake  Temple,  and  see 
a  depiction  of  the  dipper  pointing  to- 
ward the  North  Star,  which  Truman 
O.  Angell  said  in  an  article  in  the  Mil- 
lennial Star  was  to  symbolize  to  the 
Church  "that  through  the  priesthood  of 


Second  bail 

God,  the  lost  might  find  their  way." 
May  every  priesthood  holder  remember 
that  responsibility. 

"No  Fallen  Lighthouse!" 

I  was  at  Boston  Stake  conference  a 
few  weeks  ago.  We  installed  a  young 
pilot  who  had  served  in  the  Air  Force, 
a  fighter  pilot,  as  a  counselor  in  the 
stake  presidency.  I  was  very  much 
impressed  by  his  feeling  of  responsi- 
bility. He  said  something  which  I  want 
to  impress  upon  you  leaders  through- 
out the  entire  Church.  He  said,  "I  am 
very  fearful  of  this  responsibility  now  as 
a  member  of  the  stake  presidency,  be- 
cause I  have  come  to  know  that  the 
most  dangerous  of  all  traffic  aids  is  a 
fallen  lighthouse,  since  so  many  people 
depend  upon  it  for  guidance  and  for 
safety." 

To  Guarantee  Success 

To  have  a  leader  that  fails,  a  "fallen 
lighthouse"  upon  whom  God  depends 
in  a  ward  or  stake  or  in  a  general  ca- 
pacity, is  the  most  dangerous  thing  in 
the  world,  because  so  many  are  depend- 
ing on  the  functioning  of  that  particu- 
lar man.  And  so  we  propose  to 
give  out  to  the  Church  now  these  plans 
which  we  ask  you  as  stake  leaders  to 
be  prepared  to  announce  in  your  stakes 
as  soon  as  you  can  after  this  confer- 
ence. We  will  give  you  materials  to 
help  train  your  ward  people  and  home 
teachers  in  order  that  we  may  get  off 
at  the  beginning  of  the  year  in  this 
great  project  of  the  Lord,  that  for 
fifty  years  has  been  urged  and  now  is 
to  be  strengthened  by  a  set  of  planned 
lessons  for  the  parents  in  the  home, 
actually  outlined  for  the  parents  to 
teach  their  children  and  to  carry  out 
appropriate  activities  to  aid  in  the 
strengthening  of  the  home.  As  I  have 
thought  of  home  night,  I  have  thought 
of  my  own  family,  and  I  suppose  all  of 
you  have  as  you  have  been  listening. 
When  our  oldest  daughter  was  to  be 
married  to  a  fine  Latter-day  Saint 
boy  the  two  mothers  were  in  the  cor- 
ner of  the  room  talking  to  each  other, 
and  the  mother  of  our  oldest  daughter 
said,  "You  know,  from  the  time  my 
little  girl  was  born,  I  have  been  pray- 
ing all  my  life  that  somewhere  a  mother 


BROTHER  GRANT  PACE 


8? 


would  be  preparing  a  son  worthy  to 
marry  my  daughter."  And  this  other 
mother  smiled  and  said,  "Isn't  that 
strange?  This  is  my  only  son  who  is 
being  married  to  your  daughter,  and 
ever  since  he  was  born,  I,  too,  have 
been  praying  that  somewhere  there 
would  be  a  mother  preparing  a  daugh- 
ter worthy  to  meet  and  to  marry  my 
son." 

It  is  that  kind  of  home  attention — 
mothers  preparing  daughters,  fathers 
and  mothers,  sons — that  will  make  us 
and  our  homes  stronger  today. 

Four  Standard  Works  for  Everyone 

One  of  the  hopes  we  have  in  this 
program  is  that  the  four  standard 
works  will  be  in  the  possession  of  every 
boy  and  girl  deacons  age  and  older 
and  that  on  Easter,  on  birthdays,  on 
Christmas,  on  New  Year's,  you  make 
this  a  part  of  your  family  giving  to 
your  children,  so  they  may  have  the 
joy  of  personally  owning  the  Bible,  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  and  from  these  precious  pages 
begin  to  be  instructed  in  the  ways  of 
the  Lord. 

As  I  thought  of  what  we  are  doing 
now  and  its  possible  impact,  the  words 
of  the  Prophet  Micah  came,  "But  in 
the  last  days  it  shall  come  to  pass, 
that  the  mountain  of  the  house  of  the 
Lord  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of 
the  mountains,  and  it  shall  be  exalted 
above  the  hills;  and  people  shall  flow 
unto  it. 

"And  many  nations  shall  come,  and 
say,  Come,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the 
mountain  of  the  Lord,  and  to  the 
house  of  the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will 
teach  us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk 
in  his  paths:  for  the  law  shall  go  forth 
of  Zion,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from 
Jerusalem."    (Mic.  4:1-2.) 


Unity,  the  Way 

I  say  to  you  Latter-day  Saint 
mothers  and  fathers,  if  you  will  rise 
to  the  responsibility  of  teaching  your 
children  in  the  home — priesthood 
quorums  preparing  the  fathers,  the 
Relief  Society  the  mothers — the  day 
will  soon  be  dawning  when  the  whole 
world  will  come  to  our  doors  and  will 
say,  "Show  us  your  way  that  we  may 
walk  in  your  path." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all.  We  thank 
the  Lord  tonight  for  a  prophet  leader 
who  has  the  vision  and  courage  to  con- 
tinue to  guide  us  and  to  point  the  way 
to  the  strengthening  of  the  Church 
through  the  priesthood  of  Almighty 
God  which  I  bear  testimony  in  his 
power  and  in  his  authority  for  the  salva- 
tion of  all  mankind  within  the  limita- 
tions as  indicated  by  each  setting  apart 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands.  To  that  I 
bear  humble  testimony  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

I  hope  we  will  all  heed  this  enthusi- 
astic address. 

We  are  trying  in  these  priesthood 
meetings  to  bring  messages  from  the 
Lesser  Priesthood  to  all  of  us.  This 
evening  we  have  arranged  to  hear  from 
a  Deacon  and  from  a  Priest.  Brother 
Pace  has  been  chosen.  He  is  a  Deacon 
from  the  Holladay  Fifth  Ward,  of  the 
Olympus  Stake.  He  will  now  speak  to 
us  on  "How  Teaching  in  My  Home 
Has  Benefited  My  Life." 

Then,  without  further  announcement, 
Brother  Scott  Peterson,  a  Priest  from 
the  Bountiful  Thirteenth  Ward,  of  the 
Bountiful  North  Stake,  will  speak  to  us 
on  the  same  subject. 


BROTHER  GRANT  PACE 

(A  Deacon  from  Holladay  Fifth  Ward,  Olympus  Stake) 


This  is  something  I  will  never  forget — 
standing  before  this  great  meeting  of 
priesthood  bearers.  When  you  think  that 
in  this  one  room  there  are  prophets, 
apostles,  and  all  the  General  Authorities 


and  church  leaders  from  all  over  the 
world  you  can  see  why  a  13  year  old 
deacon  doesn't  feel  very  big  or  very 
important. 
But  I  have  been  assigned  to  talk  about 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

my  home.  In  my  home  I  am  pretty  im- 
portant. I  am  the  oldest  of  eight  children 
and  my  younger  brothers  and  sisters 
look  up  to  me  and  my  parents  depend 
on  me  a  lot.  I  have  always  tried  to  be 
a  good  boy  and  a  good  big  brother,  and 
now  I  am  trying  to  be  a  good  deacon 
and  a  good  scout  too.  It  isn't  always 
easy  because  sometimes  I  get  lazy  or 
discouraged  and  feel  like  giving  up.  But 
my  Dad  reminds  me  of  what  President 
McKay  has  said.  President  McKay  has 
said  you  become  great  by  doing  things 
which  are  hard  to  do,  by  overcoming 
temptations  and  problems,  not  by  doing 
what  is  the  easiest  or  the  quickest. 

My  folks  have  been  pretty  definite 
about  teaching  us  what  is  right  and 
what  is  wrong  and  have  shown  us  where 
the  line  is  between  the  Lord's  side  and 
Satan's  side.  One  night,  the  family 
night,  my  Mom  made  a  spectrum  out 
of  pieces  of  cardboard  put  together  at 
the  bottom.  It  looked  like  a  fan.  First, 
she  showed  us  the  top  card  which  was 
white,  which  she  said  represented  right. 
Then  she  showed  us  the  bottom  card 
which  was  black,  which  represented 
wrong.  It  was  easy  for  us  to  see  the  dif- 
ference between  right  and  wrong  be- 
cause it  was  black  and  white.  Then  she 
opened  up  the  spectrum  all  the  way  and 
we  could  see  all  the  different  shades  of 
gray  between  black  and  white.  The  first 
gray  was  pretty  pale  and  then  they  got 
darker  and  darker  until  they  were  almost 
black. 

Then  my  Mom  asked,  "Now  where 
is  the  line  between  right  and  wrong?" 
Some  of  us  thought  it  would  be  about 
in  the  middle  of  the  gray.  One  of  my 
brothers  thought  it  would  be  where  the 
grays  got  really  dark.  But  the  more  we 
thought  about  it  and  talked  about  it 
the  more  we  could  see  that  we  began 
doing  wrong  the  minute  we  left  the 
white,  even  though  it  was  a  pale  gray 
and  what  we  did  wrong  might  not  seem 
very  bad. 

Lots  of  things  in  the  gospel  are  easy 
for  me  to  do.  I  like  to  go  to  Church  and 
pay  my  tithing.  I  like  to  fill  the  deacon's 
assignments  that  the  bishop  gives  us, 
like  passing  the  Sacrament  and  gathering 
fast  offerings.  Right  now  we  are  build- 
ing a  new  stake  house  in  our  stake  and 
we  have  had  lots  of  work  assignments 
as  a  quorum  as  well  as  a  family.  All  of 


Second  Day 

these  are  easy  and  fun.  But  some  of  the 
assignments  are  hard  because  you  get 
scared — like  giving  a  talk,  (laughter) 
But  my  parents  have  told  me  that  these 
opportunities  are  blessings,  that  they 
help  us  to  leam  and  grow  as  well  as 
giving  a  message  to  others.  My  Dad 
says  we  will  be  much  better  missionaries 
if  we  learn  to  take  advantage  of  every 
opportunity  to  speak  well.  Some  kids 
in  my  Sunday  School  class  think  I  am 
kinda  funny  because  I  volunteer  for 
talks  when  all  they  want  to  do  is  give 
the  Sacrament  Gem  or  the  prayer. 

But  I  guess  my  biggest  problem  is  at 
home.  I  am  trying  to  learn  to  control 
my  temper  and  be  patient  and  kind. 
But  my  little  brothers  and  sisters  are 
always  making  a  mess  and  getting  into 
my  things  and  breaking  or  losing  them. 
They  always  want  to  do  what  I  am 
doing  and  I  sometimes  get  angry. 

Our  Home  Teacher,  Brother  John 
Buehner,  is  a  handwriting  expert,  and 
last  month  he  analyzed  our  handwriting. 
He  looked  at  mine  and  said,  "Hmmmrn, 
there  is  an  indication  of  a  little  irrita- 
tion here.  I  can  tell  Grant  likes  to  blow 
his  stack  once  in  a  while."  I  don't  know 
whether  Brother  Buehner  could  really 
tell  from  my  handwriting,  or  whether 
he  just  knew  me  that  well,  but  he  said 
that  when  I  could  control  this  trait  of 
character  that  my  handwriting  would 
change  too.  I  am  trying  to  improve  and 
he  says  he  will  check  our  handwriting 
in  six  months  to  see  if  I  have  made 
any  progress. 

One  thing  I  have  learned  to  do  pretty 
well  is  to  work.  With  a  big  family  there 
are  always  jobs  to  be  done  in  the  house 
and  around  the  yards.  The  boys  came 
first  in  our  family  and  we  have  had 
to  learn  how  to  mop  floors,  wash 
dishes,  and  tend  babies.  We  have  a 
garden  and  animals  to  take  care  of  and 
there  is  always  homework  to  do.  With 
piano  practising,  studying,  and  priest- 
hood activities  we  keep  really  busy.  Our 
folks  don't  have  to  pay  us  for  doing  these 
things  because  we  know  we  should  help, 
but  this  past  June  I  got  my  first  paying 
job  at  a  neighbor's  home.  They  asked  me 
to  take  care  of  their  yard  while  they 
went  on  vacation.  I  was  really  excited 
about  it  and  went  to  their  house  two 
or  three  times  before  they  left  to  find 
out  really  well  what  I  was  supposed 


BROTHER  SCOTT  PETERSON 


89 


to  do.  My  parents  told  me  not  to  think 
about  the  money  but  to  do  a  really  good 
job;  to  do  more  than  would  be  expected 
of  me,  not  just  as  little  as  I  could  get 
away  with.  The  people  were  so  pleased 
with  the  yard  when  they  came  back  that 
they  paid  me  extra  and  since  then  I  have 
had  lots  of  jobs  this  summer — more  than 
I  could  handle  with  the  work  at  home. 

Until  I  was  trying  to  prepare  this  talk 
I  really  didn't  realize  how  many  things 
my  parents  have  taught  me.  Almost 
everything  I  do  and  feel  is  a  result  of 
their  teachings  and  example.  For  in- 
stance, I  thought  I  believed  in  Heavenly 
Father  and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ  just  all 
by  myself,  but  now  I  realize  I  had  to 
be  taught  to  have  faith  and  to  pray.  I 
can  remember  when  we  were  on  our  way 
home  from  our  mission  in  Argentina. 
We  were  in  a  hotel  room  alone.  My 
parents  had  had  an  appointment  and 
had  left  me  in  charge  of  the  children. 
My  little  sister  was  about  two  years  old 
and  she  went  into  the  bathroom  and 
accidentally  locked  herself  in.  She  could 
not  get  out  and  we  couldn't  get  in.  She 
was  awfully  frightened  and  beginning  to 
scream.  I  was  really  worried  because  I 
didn't  know  how  we  were  going  to  get 
her  out  of  there.  I  got  all  the  other 
children  around  and  we  knelt  down  by 
the  bathroom  door  and  prayed  that  my 
little  sister  would  be  able  to  turn  the 
lock  and  open  the  door.  Just  as  we  were 
getting  up  from  our  knees  my  little 
sister  walked  out.  We  were  so  glad  to 
see  her  we  began  crying  too. 

My  father  is  a  lawyer  and  if  there  is 
one  thing  he  is  really  strict  about  it  is 
obeying  the  law,  whether  it  is  the  law 
of  our  home,  the  Church,  the  school 
or  the  community.  He  says  it  doesn't 
matter  whether  we  agree  with  it  or 


understand  why  it  is  given,  we  should 
still  respect  it  and  obey  it  just  the  same. 
Some  laws  made  by  man  may  not  be 
perfect  but  Heavenly  Father's  laws  are 
and  it  is  especially  important  that  we 
try  to  obey  these  laws.  Some  people  may 
feel  it  is  a  sacrifice  to  do  this,  but  in 
our  family  we  believe  that  Heavenly 
Father  has  been  very  kind  to  us  by 
letting  us  know  what  we  should  do  to 
be  happy.  We  think  it  is  a  privilege 
to  obey  his  laws. 

There  is  much  more  I  need  to  know 
and  understand  but  I  am  very  thankful 
for  the  gospel  plan  and  for  my  parents 
who  have  taught  it  to  me  and  who  are 
helping  me  to  live  it.  I  am  grateful  for 
the  honor  of  holding  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood and  being  able  to  serve  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  carry  out  my 
assignments  knowing  that  I  am  acting 
with  authority  from  Heavenly  Father 
in  helping  to  do  his  will.  I  know  I 
would  not  have  this  privilege  if  it  were 
not  for  the  teachings  of  my  parents  and 
their  example.  They  have  helped  me  to 
have  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  and  have 
given  me  the  desire  to  do  what  is  right. 

I  know  that  the  teachings  of  our 
Church  are  the  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  thank  Heavenly  Father  for  my  parents 
and  for  the  blessings  of  being  born  in 
the  Church  and  having  the  gospel  to 
guide  my  life.  I  am  thankful  for  Presi- 
dent McKay,  his  Prophet,  and  for  all 
the  other  Church  leaders.  I  know  that 
if  I  continue  to  be  obedient  to  the  gospel 
that  my  faith  will  grow  and  my  testi- 
mony will  be  stronger  and  I  will  be 
worthy  to  advance  in  the  priesthood  and 
be  of  greater  service  to  my  Heavenly 
Father.  I  say  these  things  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


BROTHER  SCOTT  PETERSON 

(A  Priest  from  Bountiful  13th  Ward,  Bountiful  North  Stake) 


My  brethren,  I  am  grateful  to  be  here 
tonight  and  be  one  of  this  large  assembly 
of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church.  There 
is  always  great  strength  and  power  when 
the  priesthood  assembles. 

I  have  enjoyed  what  has  been  said  by 
the  previous  speakers  and  whenever  I 
have  the  opportunity  to  hear  these  Breth- 


ren the  thought  always  comes  to  me, 
how  much  better  and  how  much  happier 
our  lives  would  be  if  we  would  but 
follow  the  admonitions  which  they  give 
us. 

As  President  Brown  has  said,  I  have 
been  asked  to  say  a  few  words  concern- 
ing how  gospel  teaching  in  my  home 


90 

Saturday,  October  3 

has  benefited  me  in  my  life.  In  this 
regard  the  Lord  was  kind  to  us  when 
he  gave  us  the  gospel  to  enrich  our  lives, 
for  the  gospel  contains  all  truth  and 
must  be  completely  understood  and  fol- 
lowed if  we  are  to  live  the  kind  of  life 
we  should  as  bearers  of  the  priesthood. 

Next  to  the  individual  the  family  is 
perhaps  the  most  important  unit  in  our 
lives.  The  family  resides  in  the  home 
where  love,  unity,  and  kindness  should 
abide.  We  know  that  there  is  no  sub- 
stitute for  the  home.  Its  foundation  is 
as  ancient  as  the  world,  having  been 
ordained  of  God  and  in  these  times. 

We  understand  that  from  Abraham 
came  duo-generations  represented  in 
Isaac  and  Ishmael.  The  one  built  homes 
and  cherished  them  while  the  other 
became  children  of  the  desert  wandering 
to  and  fro  staying  only  where  they 
pitched  their  tents.  From  that  day  to  the 
present  time  the  home  has  been  the 
chief  characteristic  of  superior  over  in- 
ferior nations. 

It  has  been  said  by  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  that  the  Latter-day  Saint  who 
does  not  have  the  desire  to  build  and 
establish  a  home  does  not  have,  perhaps, 
a  full  conception  of  the  sacred  duties 
the  gospel  imposes  upon  him.  We  in 
the  Church,  and  especially  we  young 
people,  should  be  very  thankful  for 
the  homes  that  we  have.  As  I  think 
back  on  the  influence  that  my  home  has 
had  on  me  I  realize  that  my  home  has 
been  the  place  where  I  first  heard  the 
teachings  of  the  gospel,  where  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Church  were  taught  to  me. 
It  was  in  the  home  where  I  learned  that 
love,  obedience,  and  service  are  essential 
components  of  our  lives,  if  we  are  to  be 
happy  and  joyful. 

It  is  the  result  of  gospel  teaching  in 
the  home  where  I  first  learned  of  and 
participated  in  prayer.  It  is  here  where 
I  first  learned  of  Fast  Sunday  and  that 
we  should  pay  tithes  and  fast  offerings, 
and  learned  of  the  importance  of  keep- 
ing the  Word  of  Wisdom.  It  is  from 
being  taught  the  gospel  in  my  home  that 
I  first  learned  the  necessity  of  being 
truthful  and  of  avoiding  and  overcoming 
temptation.  From  gospel  teaching  in  the 
home  I  was  taught  the  importance  of 
family  unity  and  learned  to  love  and 
respect  my  brothers,  sisters,  and  parents. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

It  has  been  my  observation  that  youths 
who  come  from  homes  where  the  gospel 
has  been  taught  are  better  able  to  make 
the  proper  decisions  and  become  more 
capable  of  choosing  what  is  right  as 
they  approach  their  priesthood  and  teen- 
age years.  I  can  truthfully  say  that  I 
have  found  that  the  gospel  teachings  and 
training  which  I  have  received  in  my 
home  have  benefited  me  many  times 
in  my  life,  and  they  have  provided  me 
with  spiritual  goals  and  objectives  which 
I  feel  could  be  achieved  in  no  other  way. 

I  first  learned  of  the  existence  of 
God  and  the  reasons  we  are  here  upon 
this  earth  as  a  result  of  being  properly 
taught  in  the  home.  I  was  taught  to 
observe  the  Sabbath  day  and  to  respect 
the  counsel  and  advice  of  our  leaders. 
It  is  in  the  home  that  I  was  taught  of 
the  honor  I  would  have  of  holding  the 
priesthood  and  it  was  here  I  was  taught 
of  the  responsibility  I  would  have  as  a 
bearer  of  that  priesthood.  I  have  a  sin- 
cere desire  to  serve  the  Lord  on  a  full 
time  mission,  and  I  achieved  this  desire 
for  the  most  part  from  the  teachings  and 
training  which  I  have  received  in  my 
home.  Everything  in  my  life  which  has 
been  good  up  to  this  point  I  can  greatly 
account  back  to  the  teaching  and  the 
training  which  I  have  had. 

Gospel  teaching  in  the  home  helps 
young  people  in  decisions  relative  to 
their  school  work  and  other  activities. 
Such  teaching  and  training  provides  a 
framework  that  molds  and  directs  our 
lives  toward  happiness  and  eternal  life 
which  is  the  goal  of  all  of  us.  I  have 
frequently  heard  it  said  that  there  is  an 
answer  to  all  our  problems  and  ques- 
tions, if  we  will  but  look  to  the  Church 
and  its  teachings  for  help.  This  I  truly 
believe. 

In  the  scriptures  the  Lord  has  in- 
structed the  parents  of  the  importance 
of  teaching  their  children  the  gospel 
and  he  has  also  indicated  that  blessings 
would  be  withheld  if  they  failed  to  do 
so.  Parents  then,  if  they  are  responsible, 
will  teach  the  gospel  and  its  eternal 
values  in  the  home,  and  even  though 
we  receive  similar  instruction  in  priest- 
hood classes  and  auxiliaries,  the  instruc- 
tion must  be  supplemented  through  the 
teaching  of  the  family  in  the  home. 

In  homes  where  the  gospel  is  taught, 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


91 


therefore,  it  becomes  our  responsibility 
as  children  and  particularly  as  youth, 
to  heed  the  teachings  that  we  receive. 
We  have  a  responsibility  to  our  parents 
and  our  home  to  live  the  standards  that 
have  been  set  and  to  follow  their  advice 
and  counsel.  It  is  our  duty  as  young 
people  to  uphold  and  respect  our  homes, 
our  priesthood,  and  our  Church.  This 
is  a  charge  and  assessment  which  we 
cannot  afford  to  ignore.  Usually  when 
sorrow,  despair,  and  discouragement 
come  into  our  lives  it  is  because  of  our 
failure  to  abide  by  the  standards  of  the 
Church  and  keep  them  foremost  in  our 
lives  and  our  minds.  It  is  when  we  fail 
in  these  things  that  the  Adversary  has 
the  greatest  control  over  us. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  home,  where 
the  simple  truths  of  happiness  have  been 
taught,  where  strength  of  character  and 
spirit  is  built,  where  advice  and  counsel 
is  given  to  help  make  the  decisions  that 
create  joy  and  happiness;  where  the 
true  worth  of  virtue  and  clean  living 
is  taught;  and  where  values  are  estab- 
lished that  if  but  followed  will  lead 
to  eternal  life;  where  parents  are  hon- 
ored and  where  the  strength  of  the 
priesthood  is  magnified. 

It  will  be  gospel  teaching  in  our 
homes  that  will  help  us  make  the  proper 
adjustment  in  society  and  give  us  the 
religious  foundation  which  we  need. 

Again  I  am  grateful  to  belong  to  a 
Church  that  has  the  restored  gospel  of 
our  Lord  and  that  believes  and  advo- 
cates that  it  should  be  taught  in  the 
home.  I  have  appreciated  the  strength 


that  it  has  brought  me  many  times  in 
my  life.  I  am  thankful  for  my  parents, 
my  brothers  and  sisters.  I  am  indebted 
to  those  who  have  taught  me  in  my 
seminary,  school  work,  and  priesthood 
work.  I  am  thankful  for  the  teachings 
of  the  gospel  and  the  priesthood  that  I 
bear,  and  I  pray  that  as  young  people 
we  will  be  responsive  to  the  teachings 
of  the  gospel,  that  our  lives  may  become 
enriched  and  full  of  joy,  that  our  service 
to  our  Father  in  Heaven  and  our 
fellowmen  will  become  more  sincere 
and  that  our  testimonies  will  become 
stronger.  I  testify  that  my  life  has 
always  been  happier  when  I  have  ad- 
hered to  the  standards  and  principles  of 
the  Church  as  I  know  the  Church  and 
the  gospel  to  be  true. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  live  more 
fully  his  teachings  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

We  wish  to  thank  these  two  young 
men  for  their  splendid  addresses.  They 
have  spoken  not  only  to  young  men  of 
their  own  age  but  to  all  of  us,  and  I  am 
sure  we  will  all  profit  by  what  they  have 
said  to  us. 

I  mentioned  earlier  that  we  would 
have  a  message  from  President  David 
O.  McKay.  Preliminary  and  introductory 
to  his  message,  the  Chorus  will  now  sing 
"Jesus,  My  Savior  True,  Guide  Me  To 
Thee,"  after  which  Elder  David  Law- 
rence McKay  will  bring  us  the  message 
from  the  President. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

(Read  by  his  son  David  Lawrence  McKay) 


Charge  to  the  Priesthood 

To  the  seventy  thousand  or  more  priest- 
hood members  assembled  tonight,  I 
should  like  to  quote  the  truth  and  the 
admonition  given  by  Peter  the  chief 
Apostle  to  the  members  of  the  priesthood 
over  nineteen  hundred  years  ago.  That 
chief  Apostle  wrote  these  lines  and  ad- 
dressed them  to  the  elders  of  that  time: 
"...  I  exhort,  who  am  also  an  elder, 
and  a  witness  of  the  sufferings  of  Christ, 
and  also  a  partaker  of  the  glory  that 
shall  be  revealed: 


"Feed  the  flock  of  God  which  is 
among  you,  taking  the  oversight  thereof, 
not  by  constraint,  but  willingly;  not  for 
filthy  lucre,  but  of  a  ready  mind; 

"Neither  as  being  lords  over  God's 
heritage,  but  being  ensamples  to  the 
flock. 

"And  when  the  chief  Shepherd  shall 
appear,  ye  shall  receive  a  crown  of  glory 
that  fadeth  not  away. 

"Likewise,  ye  younger,  submit  your- 
selves unto  the  elder.  Yea,  all  of  you  be 
subject  one  to  another,  and  be  clothed 


92 

Saturday.  October  3 

with  humility:  for  God  resisteth  the 
proud,  and  giveth  grace  to  the  humble. 

"Humble  yourselves  therefore  under 
the  mighty  hand  of  God,  that  he  may 
exalt  you  in  due  time: 

"Casting  all  your  care  upon  him;  for 
he  careth  for  you. 

"Be  sober,  be  vigilant;  because  your 
adversary  the  devil,  as  a  roaring  lion, 
walketh  about,  seeking  whom  he  may 
devour: 

"Whom  resist  stedfast  in  the  faith, 
knowing  that  the  same  afflictions  are  ac- 
complished in  your  brethren  that  are  in 
the  world."  (1  Peter  5:1-9.) 

These  instructions  are  nineteen-hun- 
dred-years  old,  yet  new  today,  and  just 
as  applicable  as  then  to  the  elders  of 
this  Church.  Peter  said  they  should  be 
"ensamples  to  the  flock."  I  should  just 
like  to  ask  if  that  example  starts  at 
home.  What  better  place  to  exercise  the 
lofty  ideals  of  the  priesthood? 

Gratitude  for  Parents 

The  older  I  grow,  the  more  grateful 
I  am  for  my  parents,  for  what  they  did 
in  that  old  country  home.  They  lived  the 
gospel.  Father  used  to  preach  it,  par- 
ticularly to  visitors  who  came,  more  than 
to  us  boys  and  girls;  but  both  Father 
and  Mother  lived  the  gospel.  I  realize 
more  than  ever  before  that  my  testimony 
of  the  reality  of  the  existence  of  God 
dates  back  to  that  home  when  I  was  a 
child,  and  it  was  through  their  teachings 
and  their  examples  that  I  received,  even 
as  a  child,  the  absolute  knowledge  that 
God  is  my  Father,  that  I  received  then 
the  knowledge  of  the  reality  of  the 
spiritual  world,  and  I  testify  to  you  to- 
night that  that  is  a  reality. 

It  is  easy  for  me  to  accept  as  a  divine 
truth  the  fact  that  Christ  preached  to  the 
spirits  in  prison  while  his  body  lay  in 
the  tomb.  It  is  true.  And  it  is  just  as  easy 
for  me  to  realize  that  one  may  so  live 
that  he  may  receive  impressions  and 
direct  messages  through  the  Holy  Ghost. 
The  veil  is  thin  between  those  who  hold 
the  priesthood  and  those  on  the  other 
side  of  the  veil. 

Testimony  Borne  in  the  Home 

That  testimony  began,  was  borne  in 
that  home,  because  of  the  example  of 
a  man  who  lived  the  priesthood  and  a 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

wife  who  sustained  him  and  lived  it 
in  the  home.  I  do  not  know  that  Peter 
had  that  in  mind,  particularly,  when 
he  mentioned  "being  ensamples  to  the 
flock"  (ibid.,  5:3),  but  I  do  know  that 
each  home  is  a  part  of  that  flock.  The 
influence  you  spread  in  your  home  will 
go  throughout  the  ward,  the  stake,  and 
then  will  go  throughout  the  city,  the 
state,  the  country,  and  the  world. 

The  most  precious  thing  in  the  world 
is  a  testimony  of  the  truth.  Truth  never 
grows  old,  and  the  truth  is  that  God  is 
the  source  of  your  priesthood  and  mine, 
that  he  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  stands  at 
the  head  of  this  Church,  and  that  every 
man  who  holds  the  priesthood,  if  he 
lives  properly,  soberly,  industriously, 
humbly,  and  prayerfully,  is  entitled  to 
the  inspiration  and  guidance  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  I  know  that  it  is  true! 

Exemplify  Truth  in  Our  Homes 

God  help  us  to  defend  the  truth — 
better  than  that,  to  live  it,  to  exemplify 
it  in  our  homes.  What  we  owe  to  our 
parents  we  cannot  express.  Are  you  going 
to  have  that  same  influence  on  your 
children,  you  parents — fathers  and  moth- 
ers? Never  set  an  improper  example 
before  them.  You  are  men  of  the  priest- 
hood, and  you  are  leaders.  Never  let 
them  hear  a  cross  word.  You  should 
control  yourself.  He  is  a  weak  man  who 
flies  into  a  passion,  whether  he  is  work- 
ing a  machine,  plowing,  or  writing,  or 
whatever  he  may  be  doing  in  the  home. 
A  man  of  the  priesthood  should  not  fly 
into  a  passion.  Learn  to  be  dignified. 

Home  is  Transformed  by 
Priesthood  Honored 

To  hold  the  priesthood  of  God  by  di- 
vine authority  is  one  of  the  greatest 
gifts  that  can  come  to  a  man,  and  worthi- 
ness is  of  first  importance.  The  very 
essence  of  priesthood  is  eternal.  He  is 
greatly  blessed  who  feels  the  responsi- 
bility of  representing  Deity.  He  should 
Feel  it  to  such  an  extent  that  he  would 
be  conscious  of  his  actions  and  words 
under  all  conditions.  No  man  who  holds 
the  Holy  Priesthood  should  treat  his 
wife  disrespectfully.  No  man  who  holds 
that  priesthood  should  fail  to  ask  the 
blessings  on  his  food  or  to  kneel  with 
his  wife  and  children  and  ask  for  God's 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 


93 


guidance.  A  home  is  transformed  be- 
cause a  man  holds  and  honors  the 
priesthood.  We  are  not  to  use  it  dicta- 
torially,  for  the  Lord  has  said  that 
".  .  .  when  we  undertake  to  cover  our 
sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain 
ambition,  or  to  exercise  control  or  do- 
minion or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of 
the  children  of  men,  in  any  degree  of 
unrighteousness,  behold  the  heavens 
withdraw  themselves;  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  grieved;  and  when  it  is  with- 
drawn, Amen  to  the  priesthood  or  the 
authority  of  that  man."  (D&C  121:37.) 
That  revelation  given  by  the  Lord  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  one  of  the 
most  beautiful  lessons  in  pedagogy  or 
psychology  and  government  ever  given, 
and  we  should  read  it  over  and  over 
again  in  the  121st  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants. 

The  Divine  Brotherhood 

Let  us  realize  that  we  are  members 
of  the  greatest  fraternity,  the  greatest 
brotherhood — the  brotherhood  of  Christ 
— in  all  the  world,  and  do  our  best  each 


day,  all  day,  to  maintain  the  standards 
of  the  priesthood. 

Let  us  live  honest,  sincere  lives.  Let 
us  be  honest  with  ourselves,  honest 
with  our  brethren,  honest  with  our 
family,  honest  with  men  with  whom 
we  deal,  always  honest,  for  eyes  are 
upon  us,  and  the  foundation  of  all 
character  rests  upon  the  principles  of 
honesty  and  sincerity. 

God  is  guiding  this  Church.  Be  true 
to  it.  Be  true  to  your  families,  loyal  to 
them.  Protect  your  children.  Guide  them, 
not  arbitrarily,  but  through  the  kind 
example  of  a  father,  a  loving  mother, 
and  so  contribute  to  the  strength  of  the 
Church  by  exercising  your  priesthood 
in  your  home  and  in  your  lives,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

I  am  sure  we  all  remember  this  in- 
spiring message  from  our  President. 
Bishop  Robert  L.  Simpson  will  be  our 
next  speaker,  please. 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


My  dear  brethren,  I  feel  great  strength 
in  the  presence  of  the  priesthood.  How 
thrilling  it  has  been  to  listen  to  these 
young  men  [Grant  Pace  and  Scott 
Peterson,  whose  addresses  will  be 
published  in  the  Conference  Report]. 

The  Lord  must  be  very  pleased  about 
the  prospects  for  his  Church  in  the 
future,  and,  of  course,  the  most  grati- 
fying aspect  of  all  is  the  fact  that 
there  are  hundreds  and  hundreds  of 
young  men — deacons,  teachers,  and 
priests — from  all  over  the  Church  who 
could  have  represented  their  quorums 
here  tonight  with  sincerity,  with  abil- 
ity, and  with  a  fervent  testimony  that 
God  lives. 

What  Gives  "Spiritual  Dimension"? 

What  causes  a  boy  to  think  this  way? 
What  is  it  that  gives  spiritual  dimen- 
sion during  teenage  years?  Certainly, 
in  the  eyes  of  the  world,  this  type  of 
thinking  should  come  much  later  in 
life,  but  we  Mormons  seem  to  be  dif- 


ferent These  two  young  men  have  been 
obviously  well-trained.  The  academic 
quality  of  their  talks  has  been  supe- 
rior. How  grateful  we  are  to  the  public 
schools  and  to  church  activity  that  have 
made  this  excellence  possible. 

However,  the  thing  that  has  made 
these  talks  truly  outstanding  is  their 
rich  spiritual  dimension  and  sincerity. 
Truly,  this  has  enabled  their  messages 
through  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  sink 
deeply  into  the  hearts  and  minds  of 
those  of  us  who  have  been  privileged 
to  listen. 

Sincere  Spirit  of  Testimony 

This  is  the  same  sincerity  and  spirit 
of  testimony  that  makes  a  Mormon 
missionary  successful  in  his  field  of 
labor.  His  discussion,  his  testimony  is 
not  a  mere  communication  of  words. 
It  is  much  more  than  that.  It  is  a 
transmittal  of  the  Spirit  of  God  into 
the  hearts  of  those  receptive  to  his 
message. 


94 

Saturday,  October  3 

Speaking  of  this  spiritual  dimension, 
may  we  acknowledge  the  hand  of  the 
Primary  teachers,  the  Sunday  School, 
the  MIA,  priesthood  advisers,  semi- 
nary instructors,  and  bishops  in  helping 
to  mold  this  spiritual  image  which  is 
such  a  vital  factor  among  our  youth. 
But  may  we,  most  of  all,  pay  tribute  to 
loving  and  devoted  parents  who  are 
not  too  busy,  not  too  preoccupied  to 
teach  their  children  to  pray,  to  worship, 
to  be  unselfish,  and  to  study  not  only 
the  academic  requirements  but  also 
those  things  called  spiritual. 


Spirituality  First  Taught 

When  should  parents  start  teaching 
spirituality?  Spirituality  is  taught  in 
the  first  hour  of  the  first  day  of  a 
babe's  mortal  existence,  for  the  deep- 
est expression  of  spirituality  is  love; 
and  when  love  is  expressed  as  only  a 
parent  can  express  love,  there  is  a 
real  and  definite  registration  made  in 
the  heart  and  mind  of  the  tiniest  babe. 
Everyone  here  has  seen  a  babe  in  a 
high  chair,  closing  his  eyes  and  bowing 
his  head  as  the  blessing  is  said  on  the 
food,  even  before  he  is  able  to  walk. 
We  can't  start  too  soon,  brethren.  We 
must  start  on  the  very  first  day  of  life. 

What  must  we  do  to  give  this  spir- 
itual dimension  to  our  children?  Where 
do  we  find  time?  Is  ten  minutes  a  day 
too  much?  Few  stories  from  the  scrip- 
tures would  take  more  than  ten  min- 
utes to  retell  in  the  vocabulary  of  your 
children,  whatever  the  age  might  be. 
Yes,  these  stories  are  told  and  retold 
in  the  auxiliaries  of  the  Church  but 
never  with  quite  the  same  impact  that 
is  found  as  a  parent  tells  the  story  in 
the  environment  of  the  home  and  the 
fireside. 

Just  this  week  a  fine  bishop  who  has 
traveled  8,000  miles  to  this  conference, 
all  the  way  from  New  Zealand,  told  of 
how  he  had  recently  read  a  Book  of 
Mormon  story  to  his  children  before 
bedtime.  It  was  the  touching  story  of 
Nephi  as  he  suffered  persecution  at 
the  hands  of  his  own  brothers.  Bishop 
Palmer  described  the  tears  of  sym- 
pathy streaming  down  the  cheeks  of 
his  young  son  as  the  story  unfolded. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Children's  Capacity  for 
Spiritual  Teaching 

Yes,  brethren,  our  children  have  an 
amazing  capacity  for  spiritual  teach- 
ing at  a  most  tender  age,  and  somehow 
it  becomes  extra  special  when  taught 
by  the  parents  in  the  home. 

Now,  may  I  divert  momentarily  to 
tell  you  of  the  great  spiritual  strength 
Sister  Simpson  and  I  felt  from  two 
teenage  youngsters  who  stood  at  the  base 
of  the  stairs  leading  to  the  glistening 
New  Zealand  Temple  on  the  eve  before 
its  dedication  in  1958.  Because  it  was 
after  dark,  the  temple  appeared  to  be 
suspended  in  space  as  large  floodlights 
bathed  it  in  a  fluorescent,  bluish  glow. 
It  was  beautiful  to  behold. 

The  youngsters  had  just  completed 
a  long  tedious  journey  in  an  open  truck, 
and  as  they  arrived,  they  ran  directly 
from  the  truck  to  the  temple  steps. 
This  was  a  dream  come  true.  They 
were  looking  at  a  temple  of  the  Lord 
for  the  first  time  in  their  young  lives. 
After  a  moment  of  silence,  one  of  them 
finally  spoke  and  said,  "Let  us  go  up 
where  we  can  touch  it."  After  a  few 
short  moments  the  other  one  said,  "Do 
you  really  think  we  should?" 

Then  following  a  short  discussion, 
both  agreed  that  it  would  be  better 
to  wait  until  morning  after  they  had 
had  a  chance  to  clean  up  and  put  on 
their  finest  Sunday  clothes  before  go- 
ing up  to  touch  the  house  of  the  Lord. 

As  Sister  Simpson  and  I  stood  there 
unnoticed  by  these  two  young  people, 
our  hearts  were  overjoyed  at  the 
thought  of  parental  teaching  that  had 
given  this  spiritual  dimension  to  the 
youth  of  Zion,  way  down  in  the  South 
Pacific. 

On  another  occasion  in  far-off  New 
Zealand,  a  young  Maori  boy,  who  was 
a  teacher  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
came  to  our  elders'  quarters,  arousing 
us  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  In  his 
hand  was  a  piece  of  paper,  and  in  his 
eyes  there  were  tears.  "Elder  Simp- 
son, will  you  please  keep  my  teacher's 
certificate  for  me  for  a  few  days?  Will 
you  keep  it  for  me  until  I  can  make 
myself  worthy  of  it  once  again?" 

I  am  pleased  to  say  that  the  infrac- 
tion was  not  too  serious,  and  things 
were  all  right  in  a  very  short  time,  but 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 


95 


I  was  grateful  once  more  for  parental 

teachings  that  gave  this  boy  a  conscience. 
To  him,  the  privilege  of  holding  the 
priesthood  was  sacred  and  was  incom- 
patible with  his  fleeting  moment  of 
weakness  during  the  past  day  or  so. 

Incidentally,  I  might  report  that  he 
found  during  this  episode  that  it  was 
not  possible  to  lay  aside  the  priesthood 
for  a  few  days  by  simply  handing  over 
his  certificate.  I  am  certain  there  are 
many  who  wish  it  were  this  easy. 

Oh,  what  a  sad  thing  it  is  to  see 
young  men  compromise  their  priest- 
hood obligation  through  the  dangerous 
practice  of  rationalization.  The  adver- 
sary is  quick  to  help  anyone  develop 
the  knack  of  convincing  himself  that 
almost  anything  is  okay  under  certain 
conditions. 

We  listened  to  a  good  illustration 
here  tonight  about  the  difference  be- 
tween black  and  white  and  all  the 
shadings  of  gray.  Sometimes  the  ad- 
versary is  sitting  there  on  our  shoulder 
trying  to  take  us  into  that  area  of 
gray  just  a  little  farther. 

I  shall  never  forget  the  prime  ex- 
ample of  rationalization.  It  was  an  ex- 
perience I  had  during  a  visit  to  a  prison 
at  the  request  of  the  warden.  He  wanted 
someone  to  give  a  word  of  encourage- 
ment to  three  boys  claiming  to  be 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  met  these  three 
young  men,  and  found  out  right  away 
that  although  they  had  been  baptized, 
they  had  not  had  the  benefit  of  parental 
teaching.  They  knew  very  little  about 
the  Church,  but  they  did  know  they 
were  Latter-day  Saints. 

An  arrangement  was  made  that  I 
might  talk  to  each  of  them  privately. 
During  our  discussions,  I  found  out 
that  the  first  two  young  men  were  in 
prison  for  stealing.  As  I  turned  my 
attention  to  the  third  young  man,  I 
said,  "I  suppose  you  are  in  here  for 
stealing?"  He  stood  up  to  his  full  stat- 
ure, and  he  said,  "Elder,  I  wouldn't 
steal.  My  mother  taught  me  never  to 
steal  anything  from  anyone.  I  wouldn't 
go  into  a  house  or  store  and  take  any- 
thing that  wasn't  mine.  I'm  not  in  here 
for  stealing.  I'm  in  here  for  forgery." 

Well,  now,  brethren  of  the  priesthood, 
how  about  this  gray  area?  That  was 
pretty  dark  gray  I  would  say.  I  think 


he  was  over  in  the  black.  But  I  want 
to  tell  you  we  have  to  be  on  constant 

guard  for  this  thing  called  rationaliz- 
ation. 

Father  and  Son 

I  see  hundreds  of  fathers  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle tonight  with  their  sons.  What 
a  glorious  sight  this  is.  The  Lord  must 
be  very  pleased,  for  there  are  scores 
of  meetinghouses  all  over  this  conti- 
nent with  other  dads  sitting  in  this 
priesthood  meeting  with  their  sons. 
Do  you  realize  that  there  are  probably 
more  father-son  combinations  in  this 
meeting  tonight  than  in  any  meeting 
ever  held  in  the  history  of  the  world? 
President  McKay  has  suggested  that 
70,000  men  and  boys  are  assembled  all 
holding  the  priesthood  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  Find  me  the  equal  to  it.  It 
just  doesn't  exist,  for  this  is  his 
Church,  and  this  meeting  tonight  is  an 
evidence  of  it. 

We  are  showing  the  way  to  the  world, 
brethren.  What  more  common  ground 
could  a  father  and  a  son  have  to  start 
a  heart-to-heart  talk?  You  both  hold 
the  priesthood  of  God.  You  have  every- 
thing worth  having  in  common  so 
long  as  you  honor  it  and  magnify  it. 

Means  of  Motivation 

As  we  preside  over  the  affairs  of 
our  homes,  dads,  it  becomes  largely  a 
matter  of  motivating  members  of  the 
family  in  the  proper  direction.  I  under- 
stand from  the  experts  that  there  are 
five  basic  methods  of  motivation:  love, 
duty,  reward,  fear,  and  force.  Now 
fear  and  force  are  tools  of  the  adver- 
sary and  typify  organizations  of  his 
making.  No  parent  has  ever  been  able 
to  secure  a  real  and  long-lasting  ob- 
jective with  a  child  using  either  of 
these  methods.  While  the  immediate 
purpose  is  almost  always  guaranteed; 
in  terms  of  eternity,  they  always  fail. 

Incentives 

Due  to  the  human  element  in  all  of 
us,  there  is  often  merit  in  the  reward 
incentive  program.  A  desire  for  a  Cer- 
tificate of  Achievement,  an  Individual 
Award,  or  a  Duty  to  God  recognition 
has  paid  handsome  dividends  through 
the  years  in  encouraging  young  people 


96 

Saturday,  October  3 

to  greater  church  activity.  On  the 
other  hand,  we  see  frequent  examples 
of  selfishness  being  built  up  in  the  hearts 
of  children  as  the  reward  program  is 
carried  to  excess  by  unthinking  parents 
who  give  too  freely  to  their  children  and 
keep  giving  and  giving  and  giving. 

All  should  be  sensitive  to  duty.  We 
are  a  part  of  society,  a  social  organi- 
zation or  a  religious  group,  and  as 
such  we  have  an  obligation  to  the 
group,  not  always  at  our  personal  con- 
venience. We  are  sometimes  moved  to 
good  works  simply  because  it  is  our 
duty  to  do  so,  and  a  God-given  con- 
science will  not  let  us  rest  until  our 
duty  is  done.  We  should  feel  very  sorry 
for  people  without  conscience.  It  is  a 
manifestation  of  selfishness,  in  my 
opinion. 

But  first  and  foremost,  at  the  top  of 
the  list,  second  to  none,  brethren,  is 
that  motivation  which  is  love.  "If  ye 
love  me,  keep  my  commandments." 
(John  14:15.)  Obedience  will  always 
be  the  result  of  love.  It  is  an  eternal 
principle.  More  love  in  our  hearts 
increases  our  capacity  for  love  and, 
consequently,  greater  devotion  and  an 
even  greater  degree  of  obedience.  And 
after  we  are  more  obedient,  we  have 
greater  capacity  for  love  and  on  it 
goes  like  an  endless  spiral  upward, 
terminating  in  the  presence  of  our 
Heavenly  Father. 

My  final  plea  tonight  is  to  all  youth 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and  con- 
cerns one  of  the  most  important  of 
God's  commandments.  It  was  given  to 
the  children  of  Israel  and  has  never 
been  set  aside  nor  altered  through  the 
ages.  "Honour  thy  father  and  thy 
mother:  that  thy  days  may  be  long 
upon  the  land  which  the  Lord  thy  God 
giveth  thee."  (Exod.  20:12.)    This  is 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

our  duty.  Our  spiritual  Father  has 
spoken  out  of  his  love  for  us.  And  as  we 
do  our  duty  and  keep  this  command- 
ment the  very  process  of  honoring  our 
parents  will  promote  a  love  and  affec- 
tion that  will  eventually  replace  the 
duty  aspect  and  bring  an  eternal  love 
into  the  family  circle. 

An  unkind  word  of  disrespect  to  a 
parent  is  incompatible  with  the  priest- 
hood. If  such  has  been  the  case,  we 
must  seek  help  from  the  Lord  in  fer- 
vent prayer  to  overcome  a  tendency 
that,  if  continued,  will  assuredly  stand 
between  us  and  the  ultimate  presence 
of  the  Lord. 

Now,  what  about  the  promise  associ- 
ated with  this  commandment,  ".  .  .  that 
thy  days  may  be  long  upon  the  land 
which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee"? 
(Idem.)  This  is  not  only  a  promise 
of  a  maximum  mortal  span  but  an  eter- 
nal promise  as  well.  President  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith  made  it  very  clear 
yesterday  morning  that  this  earth  upon 
which  we  live  will  be  celestialized.  May 
we  not  then  logically  conclude,  brethren, 
that  as  we  honor  our  mothers  and  our 
fathers,  we  can  also  think  in  terms  of 
living  on  this  goodly  land  forever  and 
ever,  provided  the  other  areas  of  our  lives 
are  worthy  of  a  celestial  reward.  That 
we  might  stay  long  upon  the  land  that 
God  has  given  us,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  Jay  Welch,  Assistant  Choir 
Chorister,  will  now  lead  the  Chorus  and 
the  congregation  in  singing  one  verse  of 
"Do  What  Is  Right,"  after  which  Presi- 
dent Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  will  address 
us. 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Brethren,  it  is  truly  a  great  privilege 
for  each  and  every  one  of  us  to  meet 
with  the  priesthood.  I  suppose  that  to- 
night we  have  the  largest  gathering  of 
the  priesthood  ever  recorded  in  the 
history  of  the  world — gathered  in  dif- 
ferent places  to  hear  the  messages  that 
have  been  given  to  us  here  tonight. 


Acknowledgement  of 
Importance  of  Home 

I  thought  what  beautiful  messages 
and  instructions  we  have  received  and 
scriptures  have  been  quoted  to  let  us 
know  what  our  responsibilities  are  as 
priesthood  holders  and  members  of  fami- 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


97 


lies.  And  as  I  listened  to  President 
McKay's  message  to  us  tonight,  I 
thought  of  all  the  work  that  he  has  done 
and  the  progress  he  has  made,  and 
though  he  is  loved  by  everyone  and  re- 
spected by  everyone  regardless  of  race 
or  creed,  he  says,  through  his  son 
tonight,  that  he  gives  great  credit  for  that 
to  his  family  and  the  teachings  that  he 
received  in  the  home. 

Priesthood,  the  Power  of  God 

I  am  happy  to  face  this  body  of  priest- 
hood tonight  and  ask  you  this  question: 
Do  you  really  believe  and  appreciate  the 
fact  that  the  priesthood  which  you  hold 
is  the  power  of  God,  delegated  to  you  to 
act  in  his  name  in  the  things  which  you 
are  directed  to  do  when  you  are  ordained 
to  the  priesthood  you  hold  and  the 
office  therein? 

Brethren,  if  we  did  nothing  more  than 
answer  that  question  and  leave  the 
buildings  in  which  we  are  meeting  to- 
night with  a  determination  that  we 
would  keep  the  covenants  we  made 
when  we  were  ordained  to  the  priest- 
hood and  let  our  lives  be  lives  of  ex- 
ample to  our  children,  to  one  another, 
and  to  the  world,  our  gathering  would 
be  very,  very  profitable  indeed. 

Every  father  present  and  listening  in 
was  a  boy  who  held  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood not  long  ago  and  the  boys  that  are 
listening  in  tonight — these  young  men 
who  gave  us  such  beautiful  talks — will 
be  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
in  a  very  few  years  and  occupying  the 
seats  and  the  offices,  carrying  the  re- 
sponsibilities that  are  being  held  by 
every  man  in  this  building  and  in  the 
buildings  in  which  you  are  gathered  to- 
night, even  as  the  President  of  the 
Church. 

Fathers  are  for  Sons  to  Imitate 

What  a  wonderful  thing  to  think 
about,  brethren.  And  it  is  because  of  the 
priesthood  which  you  hold.  The  future 
and  success  of  these  boys,  these  young 
men  who  hold  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
depend  on  the  way  their  fathers  live  and 
the  way  the  boys  determine  to  live,  what 
they  determine  they  want  out  of  life.  I 
want  to  tell  you,  brethren,  they  want 
to  be  like  their  dads.  Some  would  like 


their  dads  to  be  better,  but  they  still 
want  to  be  like  their  dads. 

I  received  a  letter  from  a  missionary 
just  the  other  day,  and  he  said,  "I  wish 
you  would  take  time  to  go  and  talk  to 
my  dad.  See  just  how  he  feels  about  the 
Church.  See  if  he  can  be  ready  to  go  to 
the  temple  when  I  get  home."  Now  his 
dad  is  proud  to  have  him  in  the  mission, 
very  happy  to  support  him  there,  but  for 
some  reason  he  is  not  prepared  to  do 
what  he  agreed  to  do,  to  keep  the  cove- 
nant he  took  upon  himself  when  he  was 
ordained  as  an  elder  in  the  Church. 

We  as  a  group  have  responsibilities  in 
the  home,  and  I  would  like  to  empha- 
size that  tonight.  I  haven't  time  to 
preach  to  you,  for  which  I  am  sure 
you  are  glad,  but  I  would  like  to  give  you 
two  or  three  experiences,  and  I  hope  you 
don't  mind  my  using  my  own  family.  I 
am  going  to  give  you  three  experiences 
that  we  actually  had  in  home  night 
programs,  taken  from  three  different 
families  of  my  daughters  and  their  hus- 
bands. The  last  one  I  am  going  to  men- 
tion first. 

Pray  Away  from  Home? 

When  we  were  at  Waterton  Lake  this 
summer,  with  Grandpa  and  Grandma 
there,  we  had  two  or  three  families  to- 
gether. Do  you  know  what  those  kids 
wanted  to  do?  They  wanted  to  have 
family  night,  and  we  did.  One  of  the 
boys  who  is  a  deacon  was  asked  to  take 
charge,  because  their  fathers  were  ab- 
sent and  he  was  the  only  deacon  there 
in  that  group  and  there  was  no  one  who 
held  higher  priesthood.  But  in  the  dis- 
cussion the  one  boy  said,  "What  should 
you  do  when  you  are  out  with  young 
fellows  camping  or  with  a  group  out 
away  from  home  fishing  or  anything  of 
the  kind,  and  when  you  go  to  bed  you 
want  to  pray?" 

Someone  suggested,  "Well,  you  might 
go  outside  and  pray,  outside  the  tent. 
Or  if  you're  in  a  home,  or  a  building 
where  there  is  a  bathroom,  you  might 
go  in  the  bathroom  and  pray." 

Another  one  said,  "Well,  couldn't  you 
go  to  bed  and  pray?" 

One  of  the  girls  of  the  same  age  spoke 
up  and  said,  "Why  can't  you  pray  where 
they  are?"  She  said,  "I  have  been  out 
with  a  group  of  girls,  and  I  have  prayed 


98 

Saturday,  October  3 

with  those  girls  there.  All  the  girls  pray, 
at  least  they  did  when  I  was  with  them. 
They  knelt  down  and  prayed  when 
I  did." 

I  thought  there  was  a  very  fine  an- 
swer, and  I  would  like  to  give  my  ex- 
perience, in  addition  to  that.  I  have 
never  found  it  embarrassing  after  the 
first  time  I  knelt  down  to  pray  where 
other  men  were  associated.  But  more 
than  once  I  have  seen  men  kneel  down 
when  I  knelt  down,  or  when  I  got  up,  I 
found  them  kneeling  down  offering 
prayer.  I  am  as  sure  as  I  am  that  I  stand 
here  that  every  man  wherever  he  may  be, 
though  he  doesn't  pray  regularly  would, 
if  he  found  himself  in  very  great  danger 
or  emergency,  be  glad  to  call  upon  God. 
We  need  not  apologize  for  being  one 
who  calls  on  the  Lord  and  knows  he 
stands  ready  to  answer  our  prayers. 

Prepare  to  be  a  Missionary 

Another  home  night — this  time  we 
had  all  the  families  together — and  this 
is  regarding  a  boy  from  another  family. 
He  was  seventeen  years  of  age.  We  had 
each  one  participate  one  way  or  an- 
other. We  held  a  little  discussion.  But 
when  we  came  to  this  young  man,  he 
said,  "Grandpa,  do  you  think  it  would 
be  all  right  for  me  to  give  the  First 
Discussion  tonight?" 

I  said,  "I  think  it  would  be  fine." 

He  said,  "Well,  I  have  the  material 
here  and  I  would  like  this  family  to  be 
the  investigators,  and  I  would  like  to 
give  the  First  Discussion." 

Seventeen  years  of  age,  and  he  did  it 
beautifully!  Why?  Because  his  family 
had  set  out  to  teach  him  that  he  should 
be  prepared  to  go  on  a  mission.  Now 
there  is  a  great  difference,  brethren,  in 
being  prepared  to  go  on  a  mission  and 
being  given  the  idea  you  should  go  on 
a  mission.  There  is  some  social  pressure 
there  when  you  try  to  make  someone 
feel  that  he  should  fill  a  mission  because 
everybody  is  going  on  a  mission.  The 
President  says  you  should  go  on  a  mis- 
sion, and  it  is  the  proper  thing  for  a  boy 
to  do.  But  it  is  most  important  that  our 
boys  prepare  to  go  and  fill  honorable 
missions,  realizing  that  they  are  going 
out  as  ambassadors  of  the  Lord  and  not 
just  to  be  like  other  boys. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Prepare  for  the  Best! 

I  have  heard  parents  say  to  their 
daughters,  "Now  you  be  sure  that  you 
get  the  right  kind  of  husband.  Don't 
ever  marry  anybody  that  isn't  worthy  of 
you."  Well,  I  don't  know  whether  my 
philosophy  is  good  or  not,  but  we  have 
five  daughters,  and  I  said  to  those  girls, 
"You  be  sure  you  are  prepared  for  the 
best  man  you  can  get.  That's  the  thing 
I  want  you  to  do,  girls — be  prepared  to 
be  the  kind  of  mother  you  should  be, 
the  kind  of  wife  you  should  be,  the  kind 
of  member  of  the  Church  you  should  be 
— so  that  you  are  worthy  of  the  best  man 
available,  and  you  will  be  much  more 
likely  to  get  that  right  kind  of  husband." 

Another  little  example  of  how  another 
one  of  the  families  is  preparing.  The  two 
older  boys  were  thirteen  and  fourteen 
when  this  incident  took  place.  The 
mother  arranged  to  get  the  phonograph 
records  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  She  said 
to  these  two  boys,  "Now  look,  here  is  a 
Book  of  Mormon  for  each  one  of  you. 
We  will  play  these  records  and  you  read 
the  Book  of  Mormon  while  the  record 
is  playing.  And  when  you  finish  this, 
if  you  finish  it  by  a  certain  time,  I  will 
give  you  each  ten  dollars  with  the  un- 
derstanding that  half  of  that  ten  dollars 
goes  into  your  missionary  fund." 

The  Book  of  Mormon  as  Preparation 

I  think  that  mother  is  preparing  her 
boys  to  go  on  missions.  She  is  using  the 
time  profitably.  It  gives  them  an  oppor- 
tunity to  discuss  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  for  them  to  read  it  while  they  listen 
to  it  being  read  beautifully.  As  she  re- 
ported on  it,  she  said  how  profitable  it 
had  been  to  the  boys  and  the  whole 
family.  The  other  children  wanted  to  do 
the  same  thing  when  they  heard  the 
older  boys.  What  a  wonderful  thing  it  is 
to  teach  the  gospel  to  your  children. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  told 
us  yesterday  that  his  father  gave  him  a 
copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  asked 
him  to  read  it,  and  he  did  read  it,  and  it 
was  very  helpful  to  him.  See  how  far  he 
has  gone  in  the  Church,  and  now  he  is 
accepted  as  one  of  the  greatest  authori- 
ties of  the  scriptures. 

I  want  to  tell  you,  President  Smith, 
when  I  was  presiding  over  the  West 
European  Mission  and  attended  a  con- 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


99 


ference  here,  you  pleaded  with  all  of  us 
to  read  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  I  went 
home  and  read  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
You  asked  us  to  do  it  before  Christmas, 
and  I  did  it  before  Christmas.  I  didn't 
have  much  to  do  over  there  as  President 
of  the  West  European  Mission,  did  I, 
Brother  Petersen?  Well,  I  found  that  I 
could  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  long 
before  Christmas,  and  I  got  busy — I'm 
not  boasting — I  want  to  thank  President 
Smith.  I  got  busy  and  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  and  after  I  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  I  read  the  New  Testament,  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price,  and  finished  it  up  before 
Christmas  night.  I  want  to  thank  you, 
President  Smith. 

And  I  would  like  to  make  this  appeal 
tonight  to  every  man  who  is  here  or  else- 
where under  the  sound  of  my  voice,  that 
you  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  before  the 
end  of  this  year.  Now  that's  not  asking 
too  much,  I  don't  care  how  busy  you  are, 


because  I  have  proved  it.  And  I  want 
to  tell  you  it  will  be  worth  a  great  deal 
to  you,  and  how  much  better  it  would 
be  if  your  time  could  be  arranged  so 
that  you  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  in 
your  home  so  that  the  other  members  of 
the  family  can  hear  it  and  have  it  dis- 
cussed and  learn  something  about  it 

Brethren,  you  are  the  head  of  your 
homes.  Be  worthy  of  being  head  of  the 
house.  Make  your  family  proud  and 
make  it  profitable  for  them  that  you  are 
the  head  of  the  house.  Live  a  life  that  is 
a  worthy  example  to  them  that  they 
might  follow  it  and  that  the  work  of  the 
Lord  might  go  forward,  realizing  that  the 
greatest  influence  in  the  life  of  any  indi- 
vidual is  the  influence  in  the  home. 
May  they  gain  testimonies  of  the  truth- 
fulness of  the  gospel  because  we  are  their 
fathers,  because  we  are  members  of  the 
Church  holding  the  priesthood,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH.  B.  BROWN 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


I  commend  to  all  what  has  been  said  by 
the  various  speakers.  I  have  appreciated 
so  much  what  these  young  boys  have  said 
tonight,  the  wonderful  message  of  the 
President,  Brother  Simpson's  timely  in- 
struction, and  Brother  Lee's  part  of  the 
program  which  was  so  very  important  to 
all  of  us.  We  commend  it  to  you.  We 
trust  that  all  will  undertake  to  profit  by 
what  Brother  Lee  has  told  us. 

"Every  man,"  James  M.  Barrie  said, 
"is  a  diary  in  which  he  means  to  write 
one  story  and  writes  another,  and  his 
humblest  hour  is  when  he  compares 
the  volume  as  it  is  with  what  he  vowed 
to  make  it." 

Prepare  to  Receive  the  Holy  Spirit 

I  think  it  important  as  we  think 
of  life,  its  opportunities  its  possibili- 
ties, its  challenges,  its  inspirations,  that 
we  undertake  to  qualify  ourselves  to 
receive  from  the  Holy  Spirit  the  in- 
struction and  direction  from  day  to 
day  that  will  keep  us  in  the  path  of 
duty. 

May  I  make  a  suggestion,  and  I 
thought  of  it  after  I  came  into  the 


building  tonight.  I  wish  the  head  ef 
every  house  would  get  a  large  card- 
board and  print  on  it  by  hand  in  letters 
large  enough  to  be  seen  across  the  room 
the  twentieth  chapter  of  Exodus,  the 
third  through  the  seventeenth  verses. 
Will  you  put  that  on  the  wall  where  you 
and  other  members  of  the  family  will  see 
it  every  day.  Read  it,  assimilate  its 
meaning,  profit  by  its  instruction. 

And  then  get  another  cardboard 
the  same  size  and  write  on  that  one 
the  fifth  chapter  of  Matthew,  from  the 
third  through  the  twelfth  verses.  If 
you  will  put  these  side  by  side  and  read 
them  every  morning — you  can  read 
them  while  you  are  shaving  or  washing 
or  getting  ready  to  go  to  work  or  to 
school — they  will  remind  you  of  who  you 
are  and  what  is  expected  of  you. 

I  am  going  to  take  just  a  moment  to 
read  quickly  what  I  want  to  recommend 
that  you  put  in  your  rooms. 

The  Ten  Commandments 

"Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  be- 
fore me. 

"Thou  shalt  not  make  unto  thee  any 


100 

Saturday,  October  3 

graven  image,  or  any  likeness  of  any 
thing  that  is  in  heaven  above,  or  that 
is  in  the  earth  beneath,  or  that  is  in 
the  water  under  the  earth: 

"Thou  shalt  not  bow  down  thyself  to 
them,  nor  serve  them:  for  I  the  Lord 
thy  God  am  a  jealous  God,  visiting  the 
iniquity  of  the  fathers  upon  the  chil- 
dren unto  the  third  and  fourth  genera- 
tion of  them  that  hate  me; 

"And  shewing  mercy  unto  thousands 
of  them  that  love  me,  and  keep  my 
commandments. 

"Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the 
Lord  thy  God  in  vain;  for  the  Lord 
will  not  hold  him  guiltless  that  taketh 
his  name  in  vain. 

"Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep 
it  holy. 

"Six  days  shalt  thou  labour,  and  do 
all  thy  work: 

"But  the  seventh  day  is  the  sabbath 
of  the  Lord  thy  God:  in  it  thou  shalt 
not  do  any  work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor 
thy  daughter,  thy  manservant,  nor  thy 
maidservant,  nor  thy  cattle,  nor  thy 
stranger  that  is  within  thy  gates: 

"For  in  six  days  the  Lord  made 
heaven  and  earth,  the  sea,  and  all 
that  in  them  is,  and  rested  the  seventh 
day:  wherefore  the  Lord  blessed  the 
sabbath  day,  and  hallowed  it. 

"Honour  thy  father  and  thy  mother: 
that  thy  days  may  be  long  upon  the 
land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth 
thee. 

"Thou  shalt  not  kill. 

"Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery. 

"Thou  shalt  not  steal. 

"Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness 
against  thy  neighbour. 

"Thou  shalt  not  covet  thy  neighbour's 
house,  thou  shalt  not  covet  thy  neigh- 
bour's wife,  nor  his  manservant,  nor 
his  maidservant,  nor  his  ox,  nor  his 
ass,  nor  any  thing  that  is  thy  neigh- 
bour's."   (Exod.  20:3-17.) 

Resolve  to  Honor  Them 

Let  each  one  of  us  read  that  every 
day  and  then  pray  to  the  Lord  before 
going  to  school  or  to  work  and  say  to 
him,  "For  today  I  am  going  to  keep 
the  Ten  Commandments." 

The  Beatitudes 

And  then  turn  to  the  other,  which 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

is  more  of  the  positive  than  negative 
approach.  To  the  Israelites  it  was 
largely  "Thou  shalt  not,"  but  Jesus 
when  he  came  to  serve  said:  "Ye  have 
heard  that  it  hath  been  said,  Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbour,  and  hate 
thine  enemy.  But  I  say  unto  you,  .  .  ." 
(Matt.  5:43-44.)  And  all  through  he 
says,  ".  .  .  it  hath  been  said.  .  .  .  But  I 
say  unto  you.  .  .  ."  And  then  he  gives 
us  a  list  of  those  who  are  to  be  counted 
among  the  blessed. 

"And  he  opened  his  mouth,  and 
taught  them,  saying, 

"Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit:  for 
theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

"Blessed  are  they  that  mourn:  for 
they  shall  be  comforted. 

"Blessed  are  the  meek:  for  they 
shall  inherit  the  earth. 

"Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger 
and  thirst  after  righteousness:  for  they 
shall  be  filled. 

"Blessed  are  the  merciful:  for  they 
shall  obtain  mercy. 

"Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart:  for 
they  shall  see  God. 

"Blessed  are  the  peacemakers:  for 
they  shall  be  called  the  children  of  God. 

"Blessed  are  they  which  are  perse- 
cuted for  righteousness'  sake:  for  theirs 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

"Blessed  are  ye,  when  men  shall  re- 
vile you,  and  persecute  you,  and  shall 
say  all  manner  of  evil  against  you 
falsely.  .  .  . 

"Rejoice,  and  be  exceeding  glad:  for 
great  is  your  reward  in  heaven:  for  so 
persecuted  they  the  prophets  which 
were  before  you."   (Ibid.,  5:2-12.) 

Let  the  Inspired  Word  of  God 
Fix  Your  Daily  Attitude 

I  wanted  to  leave  this  as  a 
challenge,  for  I  am  persuaded  that  if 
I  can  start  my  day  right  by  reading 
some  appropriate  scripture  and  then 
kneel  and  ask  God  to  help  me  to  re- 
member it,  and  then  if  through  the  day 
I  can  remember  that  I  am  going  to 
talk  to  him  again  that  night  and  re- 
port on  what  I  have  been  doing  and 
how  well  I  have  kept  my  covenant,  I 
believe  it  would  help  me  to  be  a  better 
man. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren,  you 
who  are  present  in  this  great  audi- 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


101 


torium  and  you  other  thousands  out 
there,  to  whom  the  President  of  the 
Church  has  addressed  such  a  moving 
appeal.  I  pray  that  God  will  bless  the 
head  of  every  family  that  it  may  be 
like  these  two  men  here  sitting  by  their 
boys,  preparing  them  for  the  calls 
that  are  to  come  to  them.  Many  of  you 
have  your  sons  with  you  tonight.  I 
want  to  tell  you  that  no  boy  needs 
to  have  a  board  and  a  chalk  to  tell  how 
big  he  is  if  there  is  the  kind  of  man 
around  that  he  would  like  to  be.  That 
is  the  way  boys  react  to  the  actions  of 
their  elders. 

God  bless  the  young  people.  God  bless 
Israel,  and  may  his  peace  and  blessing 
be  with  all  of  us  now  and  forevermore. 
I  leave  my  testimony  and  my  blessing 
with  you  humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

We  express  appreciation  to  the  Men's 
Chorus  for  their  inspiring  music.  Thank 
you  Brethren,  and  God  bless  you. 

Many  television  and  radio  stations 
will  carry  Conference  proceedings  Sun- 
day to  a  nationwide  audience  including 
Hawaii.  International  short-wave  station 
WRUL  will  broadcast  Sunday  morning's 
session  of  Conference  to  many  parts  of 
Europe  and  other  nations.  We  are  in- 
formed that  we  have  a  potential  listen- 
ing audience  for  this  Conference  of  many 
millions. 


CBS  Radio  Tabernacle  Choir  Broad- 
cast will  be  from  8:35  to  9:00  Sunday 
morning.  Those  desiring  to  attend  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  Broadcast  must  be  in 
their  seats  at  8:15.  It  is  necessary  that 
the  audience  remain  quiet  during  the 
broadcast. 

Elder  Thomas  S.  Monson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  the  speaker 
on  the  Church  of  the  Air,  CBS  Radio, 
Sunday  morning  at  7:30  to  8:00  o'clock. 
There  will  be  large  crowds  attending  the 
services  on  Sunday.  Please  be  consider- 
ate and  courteous  and  avoid  pushing  and 
crowding. 

As  thousands  leave  this  great  Priest- 
hood Meeting  tonight  let  us  keep  in 
mind  the  admonition  that  is  constantly 
being  given  to  us  to  drive  carefully. 
Please  obey  traffic  rules.  Courtesy  and 
patience  must  be  shown  by  drivers  in 
the  city  and  on  the  highways. 

The  Men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  will 
now  sing  "I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour." 
Those  of  us  who  have  the  privilege  of 
meeting  with  the  President  occasionally 
know  how  frequently  he  has  that  sung. 
We  all  remember  over  in  the  temple 
how  when  it  is  sung  we  see  him  looking 
up  and  reaching  up  and  saying  if  he  is 
not  singing,  "I  Need  Thee,  O  I  Need 
Thee." 

After  the  singing  the  benediction  will 
be  offered  by  President  J.  Price  Ronnow 
of  the  Reno  Stake,  and  we  will  be 
adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

(Preliminary  singing  by  Choir:  "Lord 
Jesus,  Thy  Dear  Angel  Send.") 

Under  the  direction  of  President  Mc- 
Kay and  on  behalf  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency, it  is  a  great  pleasure  to  welcome 
all  present  this  morning  in  the  Taber- 
nacle and  the  Assembly  Hall,  together 
with  the  vast  television  and  radio  audi- 
ence in  this  the  sixth  session  of  the 
134th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints, 


President  McKay,  reluctantly  follow- 
ing the  advice  of  his  physicians,  is  re- 
maining at  home  with  his  lovely  wife, 
Sister  McKay,  where  they  are  following 
with  interest  the  proceedings  of  all  ses- 
sions of  this  Conference.  He  sends  his 
greetings,  love  and  blessings  to  all  of 
you. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ,  will  open 
these  services  by  rendering,  "Of  the 
Father's  Love  Begotten." 

Following  the  singing  the  invocation 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

will  be  offered  by  Elder  Stephen  C. 
Richards,  formerly  president  of  the  Cen- 
tral German  Mission. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 


Third  Day 

"The  King  of  Love  My  Shepherd  Is." 
President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will  be 
President  Brown  of  the  First  Presidency. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH.  B.  BROWN 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidenqj 


My  brothers  and  sisters  (and  we  hope 
you  who  are  far  away  and  listening  in 
will  permit  us  to  address  you  in  those 
terms,  because  we  believe  we  are  all 
brothers  and  sisters),  these  great  semi- 
annual conferences  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  pro- 
vide an  opportunity  for  communication 
and  better  understanding,  also  an  op- 
portunity to  discuss  some  of  the  tenets 
of  our  faith  with  our  friends  who  are 
interested.  We  appreciate  your  inter- 
est, and  we  invite  your  consideration 
with  us  of  some  of  the  principles  in 
which  we  believe. 

Most  Profound  and  Hopeful 
Philosophy  for  the  World 

We  believe  that  as  a  philosophy, 
Mormonism  is  the  most  profound  and 
the  most  hopeful  in  the  world  today. 
But  it  is  more  than  a  philosophy.  To 
us  it  is  the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  unadulterated  by  the  specula- 
tions of  men.  The  basic  idea  of  our 
religion  is  the  Fatherhood  of  God  and 
the  brotherhood  of  man,  with  the  love 
of  God  and  the  love  of  fellow  men  as 
basic  principles.  This  philosophy  was 
partially  envisioned,  of  course,  by 
Plato,  Aristotle,  and  others,  but  it  was 
proclaimed  with  inspiring  clarity  by 
Jesus  the  Christ  as  a  religion.  After 
the  crucifixion  of  Christ  and  the  death 
of  his  Apostles,  it  became  watered 
down  almost  to  the  point  of  insipidity 
during  the  attempt  to  Christianize  the 
pagans,  which  resulted  largely  in  pag- 
anizing Christianity.  Hence  there  was  a 
need  for  a  restoration  and  for  continued 
revelation,  and  that  in  essence  is  our 
message  to  you  this  morning. 

Millions  have  believed  in  this  mes- 
sage and  have  borne  witness  that  it  is 
true,  and  that  witness  has  come  as  they 


believe  and  as  we  know  from  the  Holy 
Spirit.  If  it  is  true,  it  is  of  transcend- 
ent importance  as  it  involves  the  sal- 
vation of  the  human  family.  If  it  is 
false,  it  will,  of  course,  come  to  naught. 

Mormonism  Defined 

President  John  Taylor,  in  his  defini- 
tion of  Mormonism,  said:  "The  ever- 
lasting Gospel,  made  known  in  the  last 
days,  is  nothing  more  nor  less  than  the 
ancient  religion  restored.  It  is  the 
commencement  of  the  'restitution  of  all 
things'  spoken  of  by  all  the  holy  proph- 
ets since  the  world  was." 

Many  who  hear  this  message  are 
startled  by  its  seeming  audacity.  And 
I  suppose  it  would  be  audacious,  in 
fact  it  would  be  entirely  inane,  to  de- 
clare a  restoration  of  the  gospel  if 
there  had  not  been  an  apostasy  from 
and  of  the  Church. 

Apostasy  and  Restoration  Predicted 

Prophecy  and  history  predict  and  re- 
cord a  great  and  universal  apostasy 
which  was  to  be  followed  by  a  restora- 
tion as  predicted  by  John  in  Releva- 
tion.  The  fact  of  the  great  apostasy  is 
attested  by  both  sacred  and  secular 
writ,  and  history  bears  witness  that  it 
became  universal.  We  proclaim  this 
fact  of  history  not  as  an  attack  on  any 
church.  We  do  not  assume  any  position 
of  "holier  than  thou"  or  "wiser  than 
thou,"  but  we  announce  this  historic 
fact  of  the  apostasy  as  a  vindication 
of  the  claim  that  there  has  been  in 
fact  a  restoration  of  the  gospel. 

The  careful  student  is  inevitably 
confronted  with  the  question:  Has  the 
simple  but  inspired  gospel  of  Christ 
been  preserved,  together  with  divine 
authority  to  administer  its  ordinances? 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


103 


The  Chief  Cornerstone 

It  is  a  matter  of  history  that  the 
Church  established  in  the  Meridian  of 
Time  was  built  upon  the  foundation  of 
apostles  and  prophets  with  Jesus  Christ 
as  the  chief  cornerstone.  He  said,  ".  .  .1 
came  down  from  heaven,  not  to  do  mine 
own  will,  but  the  will  of  him  that  sent 
me"  (John  6:38),  and  he  taught  the 
Apostles  what  the  Father  had  taught 
him.  He  sent  them  forth  as  his  wit- 
nesses with  a  promise  that  both  they 
and  all  who  accepted  their  message 
would  receive  the  divine  testimony  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  as  to  the  truth  of  that 
message.  But  the  Savior  was  crucified, 
his  Apostles  were  martyred,  and  con- 
fusion reigned  in  the  world. 

History  the  Witness 

Now,  time  will  not  permit  more 
than  a  brief  reference,  but  we  hope 
some  of  our  listeners  will  be  prompted 
by  this  introduction  to  search  the  scrip- 
tures for  prophecies  concerning  the 
apostasy  and  become  acquainted  with 
secular  and  ecclesiastical  history.  His- 
tory records  the  development  of  the 
apostasy,  which  had  already  begun  in 
the  days  of  the  Apostles  as  is  noted  by 
Paul  in  his  letter  to  the  Galatians. 
Note  also  Paul's  declaration  to  Timothy 
recorded  in  2  Timothy,  chapter  3.  He 
said: 

"This  know  also,  that  in  the  last  days 
perilous  times  shall  come. 

"For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their 
own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud, 
blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parents, 
unthankful,  unholy, 

"Without  natural  affection,  truce- 
breakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent, 
fierce,  despisers  of  those  that  are  good, 

"Traitors,  heady,  highminded,  lovers 
of  pleasures  more  than  lovers  of  God; 

"Having  a  form  of  godliness,  but 
denying  the  power  thereof:  from  such 
turn  away."   (2  Tim.  3:1-5.) 

And  Paul,  in  writing  to  the  Thessa- 
lonians  said: 

"Now  we  beseech  you,  brethren,  by 
the  coming  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  by  our  gathering  together  unto 
him. 

'That  ye  be  not  soon  shaken  in  mind, 
or  be  troubled,  neither  by  spirit,  nor 


by  word,  nor  by  letter  as  from  us,  as 
that  the  day  of  Christ  is  at  hand. 

"Let  no  man  deceive  you  by  any 
means:  for  that  day  shall  not  come, 
except  there  come  a  falling  away  first, 
and  that  man  of  sin  be  revealed,  the 
son  of  perdition; 

"Who  opposeth  and  exalteth  himself 
above  all  that  is  called  God,  or  that  is 
worshipped;  so  that  he  as  God  sitteth 
in  the  temple  of  God,  shewing  himself 
that  he  is  God."  (2  Thess.  2:1-4.) 

As  Dr.  Talmage,  Dr.  Barker,  and 
others  have  noted,  the  historian,  Euse- 
bius,  cites  the  testimony  of  earlier 
writers  who  inform  us  that  when  the 
sacred  choir  of  Apostles  became  extinct, 
and  the  generation  of  those  that  had 
been  privileged  to  hear  their  inspired 
wisdom  had  passed  away,  then  also  the 
combinations  of  impious  error  arose  by 
the  fraud  and  delusions  of  false  teach- 
ers. These  also,  as  there  were  none  of 
the  Apostles  left,  henceforth  attempted 
without  shame  to  preach  their  false 
doctrine  against  the  gospel  of  truth. 

And  in  Mosheim's  Institutes  of 
Ecclesiastical  History  we  read  of  the 
schisms  and  dissensions  by  which  the 
Church  was  rent  in  the  latter  part  of 
the  first  century — the  period  imme- 
diately following  that  of  the  apostolic 
ministry. 

"It  will  easily  be  imagined,"  Mosheim 
says,  "that  unity  and  peace  could  not 
reign  long  in  the  Church  since  it  was 
composed  of  Jews  and  Gentiles  who  re- 
garded each  other  with  the  bitterest 
aversion  ....  Thus  the  seeds  of  discord 
and  controversy  were  easily  sown  and 
could  not  fail  to  spring  up  soon  into 
animosities  and  dissensions  which  ac- 
cordingly broke  out  and  divided  the 
Church." 

Unnecessary  Rites  and  Ceremonies 

In  the  second  century  many  unnec- 
essary rites  and  ceremonies  were  added 
to  the  Christian  worship,  the  intro- 
duction of  which  was,  according  to 
Mosheim,  ".  .  .  extremely  offensive 
to  wise  and  good  men.  Both  Jews  and 
heathens  were  accustomed  to  a  vast 
variety  of  pompous  and  magnificent 
ceremonies  in  their  religious  service, 
and  as  they  considered  these  rites  as 
an  essential  part  of  religion,  it  was  but 


104 

Sunday,  October  4 

natural  that  they  should  behold  with 
indifference  and  even  with  contempt  the 
simplicity  .  .  .  which  was  destitute  of 
those  idle  ceremonies  that  rendered 
their  service  so  specious  and  striking." 

John  Wesley,  one  of  the  founders  of 
Methodism,  comments  as  follows  on  the 
early  decline  of  spiritual  power  and  the 
cessation  of  divine  gifts  and  graces 
within  the  Church: 

"It  does  not  appear  that  these  extra- 
ordinary gifts  of  the  Holy  Spirit  were 
common  in  the  church  for  more  than 
two  or  three  centuries.  We  seldom 
hear  of  them  after  that  fatal  period 
when  the  Emperor  Constantine  called 
himself  a  Christian  and  from  a  vain 
imagination  of  promoting  the  Chris- 
tian cause,  thereby  heaped  riches  and 
power  and  honor  upon  the  Christians  in 
general  but  in  particular  upon  the 
Christian  clergy.  From  this  time,  the 
gifts  of  the  spirit  almost  totally  ceased, 
very  few  instances  of  the  kind  being 
found.  The  cause  of  this  was  not,  as 
has  been  supposed,  because  there  was 
no  more  occasion  for  them,  because  all 
the  world  was  become  Christian.  This 
is  a  miserable  mistake.  Not  a  twen- 
tieth part  of  it  was  then  nominally 
Christian.  The  real  cause  of  it  was 
that  the  love  of  many  was  waxed  cold. 
The  Christians  had  no  more  of  the 
spirit  of  Christ  than  the  other  hea- 
thens." 

Dilemma  of  Authority 
Derived  from  Men 

The  Church  of  England  and  other 
Protestant  churches  frankly  admit  the 
fact  of  the  apostasy.  Our  question  is, 
if  the  "Mother  Church"  was  without 
divine  authority  or  spiritual  power, 
how  could  her  children  derive  from  her 
the  right  to  officiate  in  the  things  of 
God?  Can  man  originate  for  himself  a 
priesthood  which  God  will  honor  and 
respect?  Granted,  men  may  create 
among  themselves  societies,  associa- 
tions, sects,  etc.  They  may  formulate 
laws,  prescribe  rules,  and  construct 
elaborate  plans  of  organization  and 
government.  But,  we  ask  you,  from 
whence  can  such  human  creations  de- 
rive the  authority  or  stamp  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  without  which,  and  I  em- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

phasize  this,  without  which  there  can 
be  no  Church  of  Christ. 

It  is  claimed  that  a  line  of  succession 
of  the  priesthood  has  been  maintained 
from  the  beginning  of  the  apostolic  age 
to  the  present.  We  believe  this  claim 
to  be  wholly  untenable  in  the  light  of 
a  rational  interpretation  of  history. 
All  dissenting  churches  are,  by  their 
own  admission  and  by  the  circum- 
stances of  their  origin,  man-made  in- 
stitutions. 

Apostasy  Admitted 

The  fact  of  the  great  apostasy  is  ad- 
mitted by  theologians  the  world  over 
who  profess  a  belief  in  Christianity. 
Thus  we  read  in  Smith's  Bible 
Dictionary:  "We  must  not  expect  to  see 
the  Church  of  Christ  existing  in  its 
perfection  on  the  earth.  It  is  not  to  be 
found  thus  perfect,  either  in  the  col- 
lected fragments  of  Christendom  or 
still  less  in  any  one  of  those  frag- 
ments." 

Martin  Luther's  notable  revolt 
against  the  Papal  Church  spread 
throughout  Europe  and  assumed  such 
proportions  as  to  be  designated  as  the 
great  Reformation.  Such  men  as  Mel- 
anchthon,  Zwingli,  Calvin,  Knox,  Wy- 
cliffe,  and  others,  although  they 
disagreed  among  themselves,  all  be- 
came reformers  and  were  collectively 
known  as  Protestants.  On  every  side 
the  cry  was  heard,  "Lo,  here  is  Christ," 
and  "Lo,  there." 

Restoration  Essential 

Now,  the  sequel  to  the  great  apostasy 
is  the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  which 
we  proclaim.  It  marks  the  inaugura- 
tion of  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness 
of  Times.  This  glorious  event  occurred 
in  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth 
century  when  the  Father  and  the  Son 
manifested  themselves  unto  man,  when 
the  Holy  Priesthood  with  all  its  powers 
and  authority  was  again  brought  to 
earth. 

"Dawning  of  a  Brighter  Day" 

The  restoration  of  the  gospel  is  at 
once  the  consummation  of  the  work  of 
God  throughout  the  ages  and  the  final 
preparation  for  the  second  advent  of 
Jesus  the  Christ.  The  Church  affirms 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


105 


that  after  a  long  night  of  spiritual 
darkness,  the  dawning  of  a  brighter 
day  was  heralded  by  divine  messengers 
and  the  Church  of  Christ  was  authori- 
tatively established.  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  com- 
monly known  as  the  Mormon  Church, 
stands  on  the  declaration  that  the  Holy 
Priesthood  is  operative  upon  the  earth, 
not  as  an  inheritance  through  earthly 
continuation  from  the  apostolic  age, 
but  as  the  endowment  of  a  new  dispen- 
sation, brought  to  earth  by  heavenly 
ministration.  This  restoration,  di- 
vinely predicted  and  divinely  achieved, 
has  been  witnessed  as  a  realization  of 
the  revelation  given  to  John  on  the  Isle 
of  Patmos  when  he  said: 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 
(Rev.  14:6-7.) 

The  Everlasting  Gospel  Restored 

In  the  light  of  these  historical  facts, 
which  were  in  fulfilment  of  the  pro- 
phetic utterances  of  the  prophets  and 
Apostles  of  old,  we  declare  that  the 
God  of  heaven  has,  pursuant  to  prom- 
ise, restored  the  everlasting  gospel, 
and  all  people  who  will  may  hear  its 
message  and  partake  of  its  blessings. 

The  revealed  gospel  answers  certain 
basic  questions  vital  to  the  happiness 
of  man.  No  man  can  escape  the  ques- 
tions as  to  his  origin,  the  purpose  of 
his  existence,  and  his  future.  The  cor- 
rect answer  to  these  questions  gives  a 
feeling  of  security  and  a  sense  of 
values  that  lead  to  joyous  living.  They 
are  questions  which  our  ordinary  ex- 
perience cannot  answer.  Science  makes 
no  attempt  to  answer  them.  Philoso- 
phers have  speculated  but  have  ar- 
rived at  various  conclusions,  none  of 
which  satisfies  the  longings  of  the  soul. 
They  query:  Who  am  I?  Why  am  I 
here?  What  comes  after  this  life?  Is 
there  a  God  and  is  he  personally  in- 
terested in  me?  Will  the  family  rela- 


tionships which  give  us  joy  in  this 
life  be  continued  or  will  they  cease  with 
death? 

To  these  questions  and  many  others 
we  have  answers  revealed  from  heav- 
en. If  the  gospel  is  the  "good  news," 
if  it  is  the  gospel  of  joy,  then  certainly 
the  answers  to  these  and  other  vital 
questions  will  be  given,  and  we  declare 
they  have  been  given  1  Man  is  a  spirit 
child  of  God.  Man  is  here  to  gain 
strength  in  choosing  between  right  and 
wrong,  to  obey  the  command,  "Be  ye 
therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father 
which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect."  (Matt. 
5:48.)  After  this  life  comes  further 
growth  and  joy.  There  is  a  God,  and  he 
is  personally  interested  in  man. 

The  Church  the  Divine  Solution 
of  a  Vital  Problem 

The  Church  reconciles  the  principles 
of  authority  and  individual  liberty  and 
has  all  the  advantages,  both  of  an  au- 
thoritative government  and  of  a  demo- 
cratic government,  and  none  of  their 
weaknesses.  It  is  the  divine  solution  of 
a  vital  problem. 

The  corroborative  evidences  in  favor 
of  the  restored  gospel  and  the  re-estab- 
lished Church  are  so  striking  that  it  is 
difficult  to  escape  the  absolute  intel- 
lectual conviction  of  their  divinity. 

But  a  testimony  of  its  truth  can  be 
had  only  by  the  witness  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  The  Apostles  said: 

"And  we  are  his  witnesses  of  these 
things;  and  so  is  also  the  Holy  Ghost, 
whom  God  hath  given  to  them  that  obey 
him."   (Act  5:32.) 

And  the  Savior  himself  added: 

"If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he 
shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it 
be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  my- 
self." (John  7:17.) 

This  the  Lord  has  authorized  his 
servants  to  promise  to  all  those  who 
obey.  This  is  the  mark  of  the  divine 
Church,  that  all  who  do  his  will  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine. 

When  truth  meets  error,  error  must 
finally  give  way.  Even  though  the 
churches  were  to  modify  their  creeds 
so  as  to  approximate  the  revealed 
truths,  there  would  still  be  the  question 
of  accepting  the  source  of  the  truth  and 
the  question  of  authority.   Man  can 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

organize  a  church  and  choose  an  earthly 
head,  but  he  cannot  secure  recogni- 
tion of  his  work — he  cannot  place  the 
Savior  at  the  head  of  his  human 
church.  The  administration  of  the  or- 
dinances in  such  a  church  has  no 
validity. 

Christ  Is  the  Head  of  the  Church 

Some  have  questioned  whether  the 
Mormons  are  Christians.  We  answer 
emphatically,  yes.  We  repeat  what  we 
have  reverently  declared  since  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church,  that  Jesus  the 
Christ  is  the  Savior  and  Redeemer  of  the 
world  and  that  his  is  the  only  ". . .  name 
under  heaven  given  among  men,  where- 
by we  must  be  saved."  (Acts  4: 
12.)  This  has  been  the  solemn  testi- 
mony of  millions  who  have  died  and 
other  millions  now  living.  We  proclaim 
his  divinity.  He  is  the  Son  of  the  Liv- 
ing God,  the  Redeemer  and  Savior  of 
the  human  race,  in  short,  the  Christ. 
How  do  ye  know  this?  Our  knowl- 
edge comes  from  the  same  source  as 
did  the  Apostle  Peter's.  Jesus  said  to 
him: 

". . .  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed 
it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is 
in  heaven."  (Matt.  16:17.) 

Humbly  and  reverently,  but  without 


Third  Day 

equivocation,  we  solemnly  bear  this 
testimony  to  the  divinity  of  the  Christ 
and  the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  and 
promise  that  the  Holy  Ghost  will  also 
bear  witness  of  its  truth  to  anyone  who 
prayerfully  seeks  divine  guidance. 

We  make  this  declaration,  bear  this 
testimony,  and  leave  with  you  our  love, 
our  blessings,  and  our  invitation  to  be- 
come better  acquainted  with  this  re- 
markable message  that  the  simple 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored 
again  to  the  earth,  for  we  announce  it 
humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

We  have  just  listened  to  President 
Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  First  Presidency. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with  that  beautiful  selection,  "Al- 
mighty God  of  Our  Fathers."  Following 
the  singing  Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  wll  ad- 
dress us. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  How- 
ard W.  Hunter  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  would  like  to  invite  you  to  turn  back 
the  pages  of  history  nearly  two  thousand 
years  and  walk  with  me  down  Damascus 
Road.  This  ancient  way  commences  at 
one  of  the  gates  through  the  north  wall 
of  the  city  of  Jerusalem;  winds  through 
the  hills  of  Judea;  crosses  the  Jordan 
River,  the  plains  of  the  Decapolis  east 
of  Galilee;  and  goes  over  the  plateau  to 
the  city  of  Damascus,  the  oldest  con- 
tinuously inhabited  city  in  the  world. 
It  was  on  this  road,  two  or  three  years 
after  the  crucifixion  and  resurrection  of 
the  Savior,  that  a  marvelous  event  took 
place  which  changed  the  course  of  a 
man's  life  and  in  turn  has  had  an  effect 
upon  the  lives  of  millions  of  persons. 

Saul  Born  a  Roman  Citizen 

In  the  city  of  Tarsus,  the  Hellenistic 


capital  city  of  Cilicia  which  was  rival  to 
Alexandria  and  Athens,  was  born  a 
Jewish  boy  who  was  given  the  name  of 
Saul.  By  birth  he  was  a  Roman  citizen 
because  Cilicia  had  become  a  Roman 
province  under  the  great  Roman  general 
and  statesman,  Pompey.  History  has  not 
recorded  much  of  his  early  childhood, 
and  we  have  very  little  information  con- 
cerning his  father  and  mother,  but  it 
is  assumed  by  most  scholars  that  they 
were  people  of  means  and  position.  His 
father  was  a  Pharisee,  one  of  the  two 
major  religious  and  political  divisions 
of  Judaism.  The  Pharisees  were  the 
leading  sect  and  held  most  of  the  politi- 
cal offices  in  the  state  as  well  as  the 
high  priestly  offices.  They  believed  in  a 
resurrection  and  in  a  future  life  where 
men  would  be  rewarded  or  punished 


ELDER  HOW Al 

according  to  their  deeds  in  this  life.  The 
Sadducees,  on  the  other  hand,  denied  a 
resurrection.  The  Pharisees  observed  the 
law  of  the  Sabbath,  tithing,  and  cere- 
monial purity.  They  were  known  for 
their  comprehensive  knowledge  of  the 
law  and  their  strict  observance  of  it. 
Saul  followed  in  the  footsteps  of  his 
father  and  was  a  devoted  Pharisee. 

At  Tarsus  he  learned  the  trade  of 
working  with  his  hands  in  weaving 
goat's-hair  cloth  and  in  fabricating  it 
into  tents.  This  is  not  inconsistent  with 
the  assumption  that  he  was  a  student 
of  the  law  because  Jewish  students  were 
taught  a  trade  so  that  they  might  pro- 
vide for  themselves  by  their  own  hands. 

Gamaliel's  Pupil 

While  in  his  youth,  Saul  went  to 
Jerusalem  to  be  educated  as  a  rabbi  at 
the  feet  of  Gamaliel,  who  was  considered 
the  most  outstanding  teacher  of  his 
time.  This  great  rabbi  and  doctor  of  the 
law  taught  the  doctrine  of  strict  com- 
pliance with  the  law,  which  was  funda- 
mental with  the  Pharisees,  yet  he  was 
liberal  in  some  respects,  and  his  teach- 
ings were  tempered  with  moderation.  As 
a  member  of  the  Sanhedrin,  he  argued 
a  course  of  tolerance  and  took  a  firm 
stand  against  the  prosecution  of  Peter 
and  the  other  apostles  after  the  death  of 
the  Master. 

Under  the  teaching  of  Gamaliel,  Saul 
became  a  zealot  for  God,  a  serious  and 
a  pious  man.  He  hungered  and  thirsted 
after  righteousness  and  sought  diligently 
to  keep  the  law  in  every  respect  as  a  de- 
vout Pharisee.  In  spite  of  the  fact  he 
had  been  a  pupil  of  Gamaliel  who 
taught  tolerance,  Saul  became  an  ex- 
treme persecutor  of  those  who  did  not 
comply  strictly  with  Pharisaic  Judaism. 

Persecuted  the  Christians 

After  the  crucifixion  of  Jesus,  wide- 
spread persecution  was  soon  commenced 
upon  those  who  followed  his  teachings. 
The  activity  of  Stephen,  a  Hellenistic 
Jew,  in  this  new  cause  brought  him  into 
conflict  with  the  Jews  of  Jerusalem,  who, 
being  angered  by  his  eloquent  presenta- 
tion of  the  new  faith,  brought  him  to 
trial  before  the  Sanhedrin  on  the  charge 
of  blasphemy.  The  age-old  traditions  of 
Judaism  and  the  doctrines  of  Christi- 


)  W.  HUNTER  107 

anity,  the  two  opposing  orders,  were 
brought  into  sharp  focus. 

Stephen's  statements  before  the  San- 
hedrin concerning  his  faith  in  Christ 
so  maddened  his  accusers  that  they 
dragged  him  from  the  tribunal  and 
stoned  him  to  death.  Saul  was  present 
at  the  trial.  He  stood  by  and  held  the 
garments  of  the  chief  witnesses  while 
they  killed  Stephen.  Following  this,  Saul 
began  to  participate  actively  in  the  cam- 
paign against  the  Christians.  This  is 
the  usual  course  of  a  man's  life  as  he 
turns  toward  evil.  First,  he  is  a  silent 
observer,  then  he  becomes  a  consenting 
spectator,  and  finally  he  is  an  active 
participant. 

To  this  time  there  had  not  been  a 
separation  of  the  Christians  from  the 
synagogues  of  the  Jews,  but  the  hour 
had  come  when  the  gospel  of  Christ 
should  take  the  place  of  the  law  of 
sacrifice,  and  the  rupture  with  Judaism 
was  imminent. 

The  persecutions  which  followed  sup- 
pressed and  dispersed  the  followers  of 
Christ  from  Jerusalem  and  scattered 
them  throughout  Judea  and  Samaria, 
thus  aiding  the  spread  of  Christianity. 
Like  the  tiny  mustard  seeds  which  grew 
into  large  plants,  mentioned  by  the 
Lord  in  the  parable,  the  seeds  of  Chris- 
tianity were  scattered  to  the  wind  and 
fell  upon  fertile  soil.  As  the  plants  began 
to  grow,  Saul  was  determined  to  stamp 
them  out.  His  zeal  as  a  defender  of  the 
faith  was  unloosed  against  the  follow- 
ers of  Jesus.  A  Christian  man's  house 
was  no  longer  his  castle,  for  Saul  entered 
into  every  house  and  dragged  both  men 
and  women  before  the  magistrates,  who 
in  turn  committed  them  to  prison. 

On  the  Damascus  Road 

Apparently  Saul,  one  of  the  main  in- 
stigators of  the  persecutions,  feared  the 
spread  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  to  more 
distant  places.  He  went  to  the  high  priest 
in  Jerusalem  and  secured  a  commission 
in  writing  to  the  synagogues  in  Damas- 
cus, authorizing  him  to  take  into  custody 
the  Jews  of  that  city  who  had  become 
followers  of  Jesus  and  return  them  to 
Jerusalem  in  chains.  This  authority  was 
issued,  and  Saul  commenced  his  journey 
down  Damascus  Road.  The  record  gives 
no  information  as  to  the  other  persons 


108  GENERAL  C 

Sunday.  October  4 

in  the  company,  the  number  of  days  it 
took  to  make  the  long  journey,  the  con- 
versation that  may  have  taken  place, 
or  any  of  the  happenings  along  the  way, 
until  the  day  they  came  near  Damascus 
about  noon  ".  .  .  and  suddenly  there 
shined  round  about  him  a  light  from 
heaven.  And  he  fell  to  the  earth,  .  .  ." 
(Acts  9:3-4.)  This  Pharisee  who  had 
come  on  an  errand  of  persecution  and 
those  who  were  with  him  heard  a  voice 
from  the  midst  of  the  light  saying:  "Saul, 
Saul,  why  persecutest  thou  me?"  Saul 
answered:  "Who  art  thou,  Lord?  And 
the  Lord  said,  I  am  Jesus  whom  thou 
persecutest:  it  is  hard  for  thee  to  kick 
against  the  pricks."  (Ibid.,  9:4-5.)  This 
proverbial  expression  of  kicking  against 
the  pricks  usually  refers  to  the  ox  goad 
which  was  a  piece  of  pointed  iron  stuck 
in  the  end  of  a  stick  used  to  urge  the  ox 
while  drawing  the  plow.  Sometimes 
a  stubborn  ox  will  kick  back  against  the 
goad  only  to  receive  its  sharpness  more 
severely.  It  has  become  a  proverb  to 
signify  the  absurdity  of  rebelling  against 
lawful  authority. 

Saul  had  been  kicking  against  the 
goad,  and  now  he  was  humbled  to  the 
dust.  "And  he  trembling  and  astonished 
said,  Lord,  what  wilt  thou  have  me  to 
do?  And  the  Lord  said  unto  him,  Arise, 
and  go  into  the  city,  and  it  shall  be  told 
thee  what  thou  must  do. 

"And  the  men  which  journeyed  with 
him  stood  speechless,  hearing  a  voice, 
but  seeing  no  man."  (Ibid.,  9:6-7.) 

Saul  stood  upright,  but  he  could  not 
see;  his  eyesight  had  been  taken  from 
him,  and  he  was  as  blinded  physically  as 
he  had  been  spiritually.  Those  who  were 
with  him  led  him  by  the  hand  into  the 
city  and  to  the  house  of  Judas  in  the 
street  called  Straight.  For  three  days  he 
neither  ate  nor  drank  but  waited  for 
the  Lord  to  reveal  to  him  what  he  must 
do  as  he  had  been  instructed  by  the 
voice. 

The  Climax 

On  the  third  day  the  Lord  appeared  in 
a  vision  to  a  Jewish  Christian  named 
Ananias  and  told  him  to  go  to  Saul. 
Ananias  demurred,  for  he  had  heard  of 
the  evil  done  by  this  man  to  the  Saints 
in  Jerusalem  and  knew  of  the  authority 
he  had  received  to  arrest  the  believers 


Third  Day 

in  Christ  in  Damascus,  but  he  did  as 
the  Lord  instructed.  When  he  came  to 
the  house  of  Judas,  he  found  Saul  and 
laid  his  hands  on  him  and  administered 
to  him  saying,  ".  .  .  brother  Saul,  the 
Lord,  even  Jesus,  that  appeared  unto 
thee  in  the  way  as  thou  earnest,  hath 
sent  me,  that  thou  mightest  receive  thy 
sight,  and  be  filled  with  the  Holy 
Ghost."  (Ibid.,  9:17.)  Saul  had  been 
instantly  blinded  on  Damascus  Road, 
and  his  sight  was  instantly  restored 
when  Ananias  laid  his  hands  on  him. 
To  make  his  conversion  complete  he  was 
baptized.  Paul's  life  was  changed.  It  is 
remarkable  that  the  man  who  held  the 
garments  of  Stephen's  executioners  there- 
after became  the  chief  exponent  of  the 
principles  for  which  Stephen  died.  Soon 
there  was  commenced  the  great  ministry 
of  which  the  Christian  world  is  so 
familiar,  by  the  one  whose  name  be- 
came romanized  and  known  as  Apostle 
Paul. 

Paul's  Purpose  and  Life  Changed 

These  are  the  facts  from  the  record  of 
one  of  the  most  important  encounters 
in  history.  There  are  those  who  are 
skeptics  and  cannot  reconcile  the  events 
which  might  be  classified  as  super- 
natural. Appearances  of  Deity  and  voices 
and  visions  are  often  looked  upon  with 
suspicion.  Some  are  inclined  to  explain 
away  the  marvelous  experience  of  Paul 
by  saying  it  was  merely  the  imaginative 
culmination  of  an  inner  conflict  of  a 
man  who  had  taken  a  strong  position  in 
defense  of  the  law,  who  had  resolved 
to  stamp  out  the  threat  to  Judaism,  but 
who  had  a  deep  feeling  that  he  was 
doing  wrong.  It  doesn't  seem  likely  that 
the  whole  course  of  a  man's  life  upon 
which  he  was  so  urgently  set  would  be 
changed  so  suddenly  and  drastically  by 
an  inner  conflict.  Men  who  are  as  de- 
termined as  Paul  are  not  quickly  changed 
although  there  may  have  been  a  spark 
which  had  smouldered  for  a  long  time 
before  bursting  into  flame  that  day  on 
Damascus  Road. 

Some  have  said  it  was  the  long  jour- 
ney from  Jerusalem  to  Damascus  which 
gave  him  time  to  think  and  contemplate 
during  the  days  of  travel  upon  the  recent 
events  of  the  persecution.  Paul  had  been 
present  at  the  stoning  of  Stephen  and 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 


109 


had  seen  him  die.  He  heard  him  ask  in 
his  last  words  that  those  who  had 
dragged  him  from  the  Sanhedrin  and 
stoned  him  in  defiance  of  the  law  might 
be  forgiven  for  their  acts.  This  must 
have  made  a  lasting  impression  on  the 
mind  of  Paul.  He  had  personally  gone 
from  house  to  house  and  brought  men 
and  women  before  the  tribunals  which 
condemned  them  to  prison  or  imposed 
the  sentence  of  death.  Because  of  him, 
many  had  left  their  homes  and  fled. 
Now  he  had  traveled  to  Damascus  with 
further  threats  to  inflict  persecution 
upon  those  who  followed  Christ.  Could 
it  be  that  these  things  commenced  to 
weigh  heavily  upon  his  conscience? 

Paul  Tells  of  His  Conversion 

Paul  testified  on  many  occasions  con- 
cerning his  conversion,  that  he  had  seen 
Jesus  our  Lord  and  that  the  vision  was  a 
reality.  In  the  book  of  the  Acts  of  the 
Apostles  there  are  three  accounts  of  the 
conversion.  The  first  is  the  record  of 
Luke  in  which  the  conversation  be- 
tween the  Lord  and  Paul  is  set  forth. 
In  the  second  account  Paul  personally 
relates  the  facts  of  the  conversion  in 
his  speech  to  the  angry  crowd  on  the 
steps  of  the  temple  in  Jerusalem,  and  the 
third  is  his  defense  before  King  Agrippa, 
the  nephew  of  Herod,  who  had  tried  the 
Savior  just  a  few  years  before.  Standing 
in  the  elegant  surroundings  of  the  court 
of  the  king,  Paul  spoke  in  his  own  de- 
fense, recalling  his  youth,  his  beliefs  as 
a  Pharisee,  his  part  in  the  persecutions, 
and  the  marvelous  vision  on  Damascus 
Road.  After  bearing  witness  of  Jesus  he 
said:  "Whereupon,  O  King  Agrippa,  I 
was  not  disobedient  unto  the  heavenly 
vision."  (Ibid.,  26:19.) 

Paul's  life  had  been  bisected  by  Da- 
mascus Road.  Before,  he  was  an  aggres- 
sive persecutor  of  Christianity,  but  after 
Damascus  Road  he  was  one  of  its  most 
fervent  propagators. 

Others  Like  Him 

There  are  many  men  in  the  world 
who  could  be  like  Paul,  men  who  could 
be  changed  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye 
if  willing  to  change  the  object  of  their 
lives  as  did  Paul.  There  are  some  who 
see  but  do  not  believe.  One  needs  to  be 
only  a  bystander  to  see,  but  to  believe, 


one  must  accept  wholeheartedly  and 
commit  himself  to  his  belief.  This  re- 
quires faith  and  repentance  of  old  ways. 
Paul  had  been  raised  in  the  belief  his 
family  had  held  for  generations.  He  had 
been  trained  in  that  faith,  and  it  is  fair 
to  say  that  he  understood  it,  but  it  was 
not  until  that  day  on  Damascus  Road 
when  Jesus  spoke  to  him  that  the  object 
of  his  life  was  changed.  There  are  per- 
sons in  every  church  who  see,  but  some 
do  not  believe.  Because  they  have  been 
raised  in  the  beliefs  of  their  fathers, 
their  minds  are  closed,  and  they  are 
satisfied  to  continue.  We  wonder  why  it 
took  Paul  so  long  to  see  the  light  and 
why  he  so  vigorously  opposed  the  teach- 
ings of  the  Savior.  The  answer  is  ap- 
parent. He  was  born  into  a  certain 
belief  and  followed  it  until  it  became  a 
habit.  He  had  a  preconceived  idea  of  the 
law  which  closed  his  mind  to  the  truth 
until  that  event  on  Damascus  Road. 

Need  Paul's  Experience  of  Conversion 

Nearly  two  thousand  years  have 
passed.  Many  of  the  problems  and  ques- 
tions of  Paul's  day  are  with  us  yet  be- 
cause of  tradition  and  preconceived 
ideas.  The  prophets  of  old  foretold  of  the 
coming  of  the  Savior  and  the  establish- 
ment of  his  Church.  They  also  foretold 
that  the  gospel  would  be  taken  from 
the  earth  because  of  the  corruptions  of 
men  and  again  established  before 
Christ's  second  coming.  The  fulfilment 
of  these  prophecies  has  been  confirmed 
by  history.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  declares  to  the  world 
that  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was 
taken  from  the  earth  and  that  it  has 
been  restored  in  our  day.  A  young  man 
who  had  been  pondering  and  question- 
ing the  established  faith  of  his  fathers 
had  the  simple  faith  to  seek  his  Heaven- 
ly Father  in  humble  prayer.  In  response, 
a  glorious  vision  burst  upon  this  young 
man,  a  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  in  a  manner 
similar  to  that  given  to  Paul.  God  the 
Eternal  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ, 
two  separate  and  distinct  Personages,  ap- 
peared to  him  and  instructed  him.  By 
reason  of  this  event  and  the  subsequent 
events  by  which  God  revealed  his  mind 
and  will  to  men,  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  has  been  restored  in  its  fulness 
for  the  benefit  of  all  mankind. 


110 

Sunday,  October  4 

It  is  startling  to  many  in  the  world  to 
learn  that  there  is  a  prophet  of  God  on 
the  earth  at  the  present  time  who  speaks 
to  us  the  will  of  the  Lord,  and  of  this 
fact  I  bear  witness.  There  are  hundreds 
of  thousands  who  also  so  testify,  yet 
today  as  in  Paul's  day  there  are  others 
who  see  but  do  not  believe  because  of 
old  traditions,  closed  minds,  and  pre- 
conceived ideas.  For  this  reason  I  in- 
vited you  to  walk  with  me  down 
Damascus  Road.  If  you  are  willing  to 
do  so  with  a  prayer  in  your  heart  for 
the  truth,  the  Lord  will  shed  his  light 
upon  you  as  he  did  Paul,  and  the  truth 
will  be  made  manifest  to  you. 

I  further  testify  that  God  does  live  and 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of 
all  mankind.  He  will  bring  light  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

those  who  honestly  seek  it.  May  the 
Spirit  of  God  be  with  you,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

(Brief  organ  interlude,  followed  by 
singing  by  Choir  and  congregation, 
"Now  Let  Us  Rejoice,"  without  an- 
nouncement.) 

A  number  of  television  and  radio 
stations  have  just  joined  us.  We  wel- 
come all  those  who  are  tuned  in  on  this 
Conference  session.  We  shall  now  hear 
from  Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  and  he  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


There  is  an  ancient  Greek  myth  about 
a  giant  race  ealled  Titans  that  once 
plotted  an  assault  on  heaven.  Armed 
with  missiles  and  firebrands,  they 
hurled  themselves  against  the  gods, 
seeking  their  overthrow.  But  the 
thunderbolts  of  Zeus  and  the  arrows  of 
Hercules  were  too  much  for  the  attack- 
ers, and  the  Titans  were  finally  de- 
stroyed. 

From  this  story  we  get  the  word 
titanism.  This  is  a  word  intended  to 
represent  our  unfortunate  human  in- 
clination to  fight  against  righteousness. 
Following  the  example  of  the  ancient 
giants,  our  world  is  presently  con- 
ducting an  all-out  war  against  God  and 
his  purposes. 

Conflict  With  God 

Jesus  prayed,  "Thy  kingdom  come. 
Thy  will  be  done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in 
heaven."  (Matt.  6:10.)  And  from  the 
very  beginning  Deity  has  been  trying 
to  raise  our  standards  to  this  level  for 
which  the  Redeemer  prayed.  He  has 
failed  only  because  of  the  opposition 
of  those  he  has  been  trying  to  help. 
Our  human  history  is  made  up  of  a 
long  unpleasant  record  of  antagonism 
toward  God. 

Disobedience  brought  about  the  ex- 
pulsion from  Eden.    The  spirit  that 


caused  Cain  to  murder  his  brother  Abel 
in  order  to  possess  his  flocks  spread 
quickly  over  the  earth.  Human  society 
was  not  very  old  before  it  was  neces- 
sary for  God  to  invoke  the  flood  in 
order  to  cleanse  the  earth  of  its  sin. 
This  watery  devastation  was  closely 
followed  by  the  confusion  of  tongues 
and  the  dispersion  of  the  sinners  of 
Babel.  In  the  Meridian  of  Time  re- 
bellion against  God  led  to  the  rejection 
and  crucifixion  of  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  and  this  tragedy  was  followed 
by  that  long  black  night  of  apostasy 
that  we  call  the  Dark  Ages. 

Leading  Rebel 

The  scripture  reminds  us  that  Satan 
himself  became  what  he  is  because  of 
his  sin  of  titanism.  In  the  great  ante- 
mortal  council  described  in  the  scrip- 
tures, Satan  sought  the  overthrow  of 
God  himself  and  succeeded  in  drawing 
away  from  God  one  third  of  all  of  the 
heavenly  host.  Since  that  time,  Satan's 
fight  has  continued  with  increasing 
power  to  reach  its  pinnacle  of  evil  in 
our  own  day. 

Elements  of  the  Conflict 

Certainly  the  greatest  problem  of 
our  generation  is  its  titanism,  as  shown 
by  our  enmity  toward  the  Almighty. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


HI 


Every  unrighteous  act,  no  matter  how 
small,  tends  to  put  evil  upon  the  throne 
of  the  universe.  The  Apostle  John  says 
that  sin  is  the  transgression  of  law 
(see  1  John  3:4),  and  that  is  the  dis- 
tinguishing characteristic  of  our  day. 

Jesus  made  his  own  appraisal  of  our 
situation  when  nineteen  hundred  years 
ago  he  looked  down  to  our  day  and 
compared  it  to  the  time  immediately 
preceding  the  flood.  (See  Matt.  24: 
37.)  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  in  fight- 
ing against  God  we  are  sinning  against 
ourselves,  yet  we  have  been  com- 
pletely unable  to  stop  the  great  up- 
surge in  crime  and  delinquency  that 
each  year  reaches  a  new  high  in  dev- 
astating our  lives.  We  are  training 
ourselves  to  love  sin.  We  pay  money 
to  see  it  being  committed  on  the  screen; 
we  read  about  it  in  books,  magazines, 
and  newspapers;  and  quite  naturally 
we  absorb  it  into  our  lives. 

Against  the  direct  command  of  God. 
we  sin  against  our  health;  we  sin 
against  our  happiness;  we  sin  against 
our  success;  and  we  sin  against  Deity 
himself.  But  no  one  can  practise  evil 
with  impunity.  The  incidence  of  psychi- 
atric disease  is  increasing  among  us 
with  giant  strides.  The  rate  of  bank- 
ruptcy is  growing  by  leaps  and  bounds. 
Business  organizations  are  reporting 
unheard-of  increases  in  theft  and  other 
evidences  of  moral  breakdown.  Every 
day  the  newspapers  report  new  oc- 
cupational scandals  as  well  as  scandals 
in  government  itself.  The  Kinsey  re- 
port of  a  few  years  ago  is  a  personal 
testimony  of  a  widespread  decadence 
in  morality  that  is  strangely  reminis- 
cent of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah. 

When  we  build  bars  in  our  homes 
instead  of  altars,  we  are  fighting 
against  God.  In  our  violations  of  the 
Sabbath  day  we  are  motivating  a 
greater  interest  in  horse  races  and 
baseball  games  than  in  the  celestial 
kingdom.  We  employ  some  of  our  best 
advertising  brains  and  use  our  finest 
communication  media  to  persuade  our- 
selves and  others  to  take  a  greater 
part  in  the  very  evils  that  God  has 
specifically  forbidden.  As  a  result  of 
our  titanism,  our  great  enlightened 
Christian  nation  is  noted  for  its  drunk- 


enness, lung  cancer,  immorality,  and 
the  violation  of  its  own  laws. 

So  far  as  all  practical  purposes  are 
concerned,  we  have  largely  excluded 
God  from  our  lives.  Recently  a  nation- 
wide religious  poll  asked  whether  or 
not  those  being  interviewed  believed  in 
God;  ninety-five  percent  answered  yes. 
When  asked  whether  or  not  they  tried 
to  lead  a  good  life  as  a  result,  only 
twenty-five  percent  seemed  to  think 
that  there  was  any  connection  between 
the  two,  and  fifty-four  percent  said 
that  religion  did  not  influence  their 
conduct  in  politics  or  business  affairs. 
Because  we  seem  to  keep  our  creeds 
and  our  deeds  in  separate  compart- 
ments, one  is  powerless  to  help  the 
other.  Church  membership  in  the 
United  States  is  now  at  an  all-time 
high,  and  so  are  our  indicators  of  crime 
and  sin. 

One  of  the  reasons  for  our  problem 
is  that  so  many  people  have  deperson- 
alized God  and  think  of  him  only  in 
impersonal  terms.  We  call  him  by  such 
names  as  "the  first  great  cause,"  or 
we  refer  to  him  as  "an  eternal  princi- 
ple." Then  because  an  eternal  princi- 
ple can  neither  love  nor  punish  us,  we 
feel  an  increased  liberty  to  indulge 
our  titanism. 

But  our  time  is  growing  short;  and 
if  we  do  not  give  up  the  assault,  we 
must  surely  share  the  fate  of  the  ti- 
tans and  the  antediluvians  in  losing 
the  war.  In  his  vision  of  the  judgment, 
John  the  Revelator  says,  "And  I  saw 
an  angel  come  down  from  heaven,  hav- 
ing the  key  of  the  bottomless  pit  and  a 
great  chain  in  his  hand. 

"And  he  laid  hold  on  the  dragon,  that 
old  serpent,  which  is  the  Devil,  and 
Satan,  and  bound  him.  .  .  . 

"And  cast  him  into  the  bottomless  pit, 
and  shut  him  up,  and  set  a  seal  upon 
him,  that  he  should  deceive  the  nations 
no  more.  .  .  ."  (Rev.  20:1-3.)  And  cer- 
tainly those  who  continue  to  follow 
Satan  must  share  his  fate. 

Repentance,  the  Saving  Principle 

Because  sin  is  the  basic  problem  ©f 
our  world,  repentance  has  been  made 
one  of  the  first  and  one  of  the  most 
important  of  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Christ.  A  universal,  genuine, 
and  permanent  repentance  would  close 


112 

Sunday,  October  4 

up  our  jails,  do  away  with  our  reform 
schools,  prevent  our  nervous  break- 
downs, fill  our  churches,  redeem  our 
souls,  and  restore  harmony,  peace,  and 
happiness  to  the  world.  From  any  point 
of  view,  repentance  is  one  of  the  most 
praiseworthy  actions  in  life.  Through 
it  we  abandon  unworthy  objectives  and 
turn  our  lives  upward  toward  more 
worthwhile  things.  The  dispensation  of 
Jesus  opened  with  the  declaration  of 
John  the  Baptist,  "Repent  ye:  for  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand."  (Matt. 
3:2.)  And  in  our  own  day  the  Lord 
has  said,  "Say  nothing  but  repentance 
unto  this  generation;  .  .  ."  (D&C  6:9.) 

Repentance  is  God's  cure  for  every 
disease  that  plagues  our  lives.  As  re- 
pentance is  postponed,  the  sinner  be- 
comes more  wilful,  and  any  upward 
change  becomes  more  difficult.  If  this 
Godly  gift  is  not  used,  it  may  lapse  in- 
to impotence,  and  the  soul  may  be  lost. 

Through  Noah  the  Lord  said,  "My 
spirit  shall  not  always  strive  with 
man.  .  .  ."  (Gen.  6:3.)  And  someday 
when  it  may  be  too  late,  we  may  dis- 
cover that  repentance  is  the  most  thrill- 
ing, exciting,  uplifting  of  all  possible 
activities. 

Some  time  ago  while  visiting  the 
Northern  States  Mission  I  found  my- 
self one  sultry  August  afternoon  in 
southern  Illinois  in  what  was  prob- 
ably the  most  unpleasant  weather  I 
have  ever  experienced.  It  was  very  hot 
and  humid,  and  I  was  sweaty,  sticky, 
dirty,  and  generally  uncomfortable.  But 
after  the  day's  work  had  been  finished, 
I  went  to  my  room  in  an  air-conditioned 
hotel.  I  took  a  hot,  soapy  bath  and  put 
on  fresh,  clean  clothing.  A  little  later 
I  got  into  a  bed  between  cool,  white, 
clean  sheets.  And  for  a  few  minutes 
before  dropping  off  to  sleep,  I  lay 
there  and  thought  about  repentance. 
And  I  thought  that  if  it  were  this 
pleasant  to  cleanse  the  body  of  a  little 
sticky  perspiration,  what  a  delight  it 
would  be  to  cleanse  the  mind  and  soul 
of  guilt  and  stand  clean  and  free  be- 
fore God. 

Repentance  is  Good 

Even  as  late  as  the  cross,  repentance 
is  good.  One  of  the  thieves  crucified 
with  Jesus  was  sorry  for  what  he  had 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

done.  When  he  acknowledged  his  sins, 
Jesus  gave  him  credit.  Certainly  he 
was  far  ahead  of  his  dishonest  compan- 
ion who  remained  bitter  and  rebellious 
to  the  very  end.  But  the  repentance  of 
the  thief  came  too  late  to  undo  the 
evil  that  his  life  had  caused. 

There  is  an  old  fable  about  a  horse 
that  once  ran  away  from  his  master. 
Finally  the  horse  repented  and  returned 
to  his  master  and  said,  "I  have  come 
back."  The  master  said.  "Yes,  you 
have  come  back,  but  the  field  is  un- 
plowed."  How  can  one  repent  of  un- 
plowed  ground  or  of  lessons  unlearned 
or  of  character  qualities  undeveloped? 
The  governor  can  pardon  the  murderer, 
but  who  can  restore  life  to  the  victim 
or  the  father  to  his  orphaned  children. 

Repentance  is  one  of  the  greatest  of 
all  ideas,  but  we  should  understand 
that  it  also  has  some  serious  limitations. 
To  begin  with  it  takes  time  to  reform 
one's  life  and  make  restitution  for  his 
wrongs,  and  sometimes  an  atonement 
must  be  made  through  the  personal 
suffering  of  the  wrongdoer. 

"Prepentance" 

But  there  is  one  kind  of  repentance 
that  has  no  limitations,  that  is  a  kind  of 
repentance  in  advance,  which  someone 
has  called  "prepentance."  Prepentance 
is  a  repentance  that  takes  place  before 
the  offense  is  committed.  Prepentance 
is  the  equivalent  of  prevention.  It  is 
a  repentance  that  requires  no  resti- 
tution and  demands  no  payment  of  pen- 
alties. We  know  that  in  God's  eyes 
prevention  is  greatly  superior  to  cure, 
as  he  has  said,  "For  I  the  Lord  cannot 
look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of 
allowance; 

"Nevertheless,  he  that  repents  and 
does  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  forgiven;  .  .  ."  (D&C  1:31-32.) 

To  live  a  life  of  prepentance  requires 
us  to  develop  the  kind  of  faith  that 
destroys  sin  before  it  is  indulged.  This 
was  "the  way  of  life"  of  Jesus.  The 
scriptures  say  that  Christ,  "was  in  all 
points  tempted  like  as  we  are,  yet  with- 
out sin."  (Heb.  4:15.)  Repentance  for 
him  was  unnecessary  because  he  lived 
the  higher  law  of  prevention. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


113 


Discipline  for  the  Will 

The  greatest  miracle  ever  performed 
by  Jesus  was  not  in  controlling  the 
angry  sea  but  in  disciplining  his  own 
will.  His  sinless  life  is  the  highest 
manifestation  of  excellence  ever  known 
in  the  world.  Jesus  did  not  need  to  do 
a  single  evil  thing  in  order  to  find  out 
that  it  was  wrong.  The  life  of  Christ 
was  pure,  good.  His  ledger  showed  all 
gains  and  no  losses.  There  were  no 
destructive  injuries  to  be  repaired  and 
no  restitutions  to  be  made. 

Declare  Peace  with  God 

What  a  tremendous  benefit  we  could 
bestow  upon  ourselves  by  calling  off 
the  war  and  learning  to  live  at  peace 
with  God,  not  only  in  obeying  him  but 
also  in  agreeing  with  him.  If  we  fully 
followed  him,  we  could  eliminate  all  of 
the  tragic  casualties  that  are  presently 
strewing  themselves  along  the  highway 
of  life. 

Recently  a  man  came  to  see  me  who 
felt  that  he  needed  to  talk  to  someone 
about  his  problems.  He  was  very  sorry 
about  his  dishonesties,  his  cheating, 
and  his  immoralities.  He  bitterly  re- 
gretted the  unkindnesses  that  had  caused 
his  wife  to  die  of  a  broken  heart. 
But  although  he  had  repented  a  thou- 
sand times,  yet  he  was  powerless  to 
undo  his  evil.  He  was  unemployed  be- 
cause his  past  weaknesses  had  made 
future  confidence  impossible.  His  chil- 
dren were  still  suffering  the  disgrace  of 
his  bad  example,  and  after  having  set 
all  of  these  evils  in  motion,  he  could 
only  say,  "I  wish  I  could  live  my  life 
over  again."   But  how  ridiculous  can 


we  be.  No  one  can  live  his  life  over 
again.  There  are  no  rehearsals  in  life. 
We  can't  rehearse  birth  or  life  or  death. 
To  feel  sorry  for  our  sins  does  not 
erase  the  injuries  or  heal  up  the 
wounds.  And  how  can  one  repent  of  a 
bad  example  or  a  damaged  soul?  Sin 
is  the  most  dangerous  and  the  most 
destructive  of  all  human  experiences, 
and  God  has  commanded  that  it  should 
be  avoided.  "When  we  are  hungry,  sin 
offers  us  only  poisoned  bread;  when  we 
are  thirsty,  it  invites  us  to  drink  at  a 
deadly  fountain."  It  causes  all  of  the 
trouble,  pain,  and  unhappiness  in  the 
world. 

Certainly  we  should  never  think  of 
sin  as  a  plaything,  but  as  our  most 
deadly  enemy.  God  hates  sin,  and  the 
Psalmist  speaks  of  our  hating  evil  with 
a  perfect  hatred.  Prepentance  is  God's 
highest  law.  And  what  a  thrilling  and 
profitable  way  of  life  is  the  religion  of 
doing  good,  of  worshiping  God,  of  hun- 
gering and  thirsting  after  righteous- 
ness. Jesus  demonstrated  life's  per- 
fect pattern  and  then  said,  "Follow 
me.  .  .  .  "  (Matt  9:9.)  And  every  indi- 
vidual life  must  finally  be  judged  by 
how  well  it  carries  out  that  single 
directive. 

May  God  help  us  to  follow  him  with 
our  whole  souls,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Sterling 
W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Marion  D. 
Hanks  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


It  is  a  wonderful  blessing  to  be  in  this 
beloved  building  on  these  cherished  and 
sacred  grounds  again.  It  is  glorious 
to  sing  with  you  and  to  respond  to  the 
inspiration  of  this  choir.  It  is  good  to 
be  home. 

As  I  walked  out  of  the  Church  Office 
Building  yesterday  morning,  I  heard  a 
man  say  to  his  companion,  "If  I  keep 
up  this  schedule  I  am  going  to  end  up 


in  the  grave."  My  immediate  reaction 
was  to  feel  that  whatever  schedule  he 
followed  his  chances  of  that  were 
pretty  good.  But  the  second  thought 
came,  a  thought  expressed  by  a  fine 
but  leaden-footed  youngster  interrupted 
in  the  middle  of  a  drag  race  by  a  some- 
what stern  officer.  The  boy  was  asked 
what  he  was  doing,  and  he  said,  "I 
didn't  want  to  get  left  in  the  dust."  Well, 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

he  won't.  No  one  will,  and  no  one  will 
end  up  in  a  grave. 

Choose  the  "Eternal  Way"  now 

The  spirit  of  every  child  of  God  goes 
on  living  as  we  experience  mortal 
death — the  temporary  separation  of 
the  body  and  spirit — and  through  the 
atonement  of  Christ  there  will  be  a 
universal  resurrection.  The  body  and 
spirit  will  be  joined  together  again  as 
the  eternally  living  soul.  The  circum- 
stances under  which  we  shall  live  eter- 
nally, in  whose  presence,  with  what 
companions,  and  in  what  condition  of 
opportunity  and  creative  service,  we 
are  now  deciding  by  the  choices  we 
make. 

The  great  messages  of  this  confer- 
ence and  the  stirring  and  solemn  as- 
surances that  have  come  have  brought 
to  our  hearts  renewed  assurance  that 
this  is  the  truth.  We  have  been  teach- 
ing that  truth  in  Europe  in  the  past 
several  years  with  many  of  your  choice 
sons  and  daughters  and  their  older 
companions.  It  has  been  a  wonderful 
experience  to  see  the  transforming 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  work  upon  them  as 
it  worked  anciently  when  the  Savior 
called  his  Apostles  from  the  counting 
place  and  the  fishing  nets  and  bade 
them  become  fishers  of  men.  It  is  an 
experience  that  we  wouldn't  miss  nor 
trade  for  anything. 

Missionary  Motivations  Commended 

Some  years  ago  a  wonderful,  suc- 
cessful man,  who  knew  nothing  of  the 
Church,  spent  a  few  days  with  his  son 
at  a  boys'  camp  where  several  of  these 
missionaries  were  serving  as  counsel- 
ors. A  little  time  later  he  wrote  a 
note  to  one  of  them.  Let  me  read  it: 

"It's  hard  for  a  person  untrained  in 
writing  to  say  what  I  want  to  and  not 
sound  a  bit  overboard.  I  think  you  know 
me  well  enough,  though,  to  know  that 
I  mean  just  what  I  say.  I  want  to  tell 
you  and  the  others  how  I  feel.  There 
is  very  little  that  I  know  about  the 
Mormon  religion,  but  this  I  see  from 
my  contact  with  you  men  during  this 
camp  period.  In  some  way  it  has  made 
itself  so  vital  to  young  men  like  you 
that  you  found  yourself  answering  a 
call.  You've  had  to  do  something  per- 


Third  Day 

sonally  because  your  religion  is  so 
very  personal  and  important  to  you. 
This  is  a  living  religion. 

"I  am  a  ruling  elder  in  a  Protestant 
church,  and  I  covet  for  my  own  church, 
more  than  I  can  tell  you,  the  sort  of 
teaching,  leadership,  and  conviction  that 
breathes  such  a  vital  force  into  its 
young  men.  We  have  our  missionaries, 
of  course,  but  this  thing  which  you  do 
is  a  different  thing.  It  reaches  out 
within  your  church  in  a  different  way, 
I  judge,  and  in  my  humble  judgment 
it  is  one  of  the  grandest  ways  I  have 
yet  heard  of  for  a  fellow  to  repay  in 
some  measure  to  his  God  the  great  debt 
we  all  owe.  I  know  that  God  will  richly 
bless  your  mission  and  you.  I  want  you 
to  know  that  through  you  and  the  other 
men  I  have  had  a  glimpse  of  something 
which  to  me  has  the  possibility  of  being 
an  answer  to  many  of  the  problems 
that  beset  my  own  church  and  the  whole 
world  in  these  troubled  times." 

Well,  I  agree  with  Mr.  Cary's  gen- 
erous and  challenging  words,  his  sincere 
words  of  commendation  and  expec- 
tation. And  I  agree  with  the  wonderful 
implications  in  them  for  the  missionary, 
and  his  younger  brother  and  sister 
and  his  parents,  for  me  and  you,  for 
all  of  us.  They  are  to  me  a  sobering 
portrait  of  our  possibilities  and  our 
responsibilities. 

Commendation  and  Confidence 
for  Youth 

As  we  worked  with  the  missionaries, 
we  worked  also  with  wonderful  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  and  met  multitudes 
of  choice  young  and  older  people.  I  see 
them  in  my  mind's  eye  this  morning  in 
Frankfurt  and  Orleans  and  Berchtes- 
gaden,  in  London  and  Bristol  and  Glas- 
gow, and  in  a  lot  of  other  places.  Last 
Sunday  night  at  a  fireside  gathering 
in  the  Brigham  Young  University  field 
house  there  were  more  youngsters 
gathered  than  are  congregated  on 
these  grounds  today.  A  night  or  two 
later  at  Utah  State  University  I  met 
another  great  group.  I  feel  in  my  heart 
for  them  and  their  generation  the 
strongest  commendation  and  confidence. 
But  they  have  a  mighty  burden  to  bear 
and  a  great  challenge  to  face. 

I  have  been  thinking  the  last  few 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


115 


days  of  the  statement  of  the  Psalmist 
who  sang  the  sweet  strains  of  heaven: 
"Thou  preparest  a  table  before  me  in 
the  presence  of  mine  enemies:  .  .  ." 
(Psalm  23:5.)  Our  young  people  have 
a  table  prepared  all  right,  and  it  is  a 
table  laden  with  the  gifts  that  can 
make  this  life  meaningful  and  happy 
and  that  can  fill  them  in  the  eternal 
sense.  But  the  table  is  in  truth,  as  the 
Psalmist  said,  set  in  the  presence  of 
their  enemies. 

Enemies  of  Youth 

Who  are  their  enemies?  Some  of 
them  have  been  spoken  of  this  morning: 
men  who  dig  gold  out  of  dirt;  certain 
ones  who  manufacture  and  market  filth; 
they  who,  whether  misguided  or  de- 
signing, put  before  our  young  people  a 
picture  of  life  as  some  live  it  but  em- 
phasizing the  least  affirmative  and 
least  Godly  aspects  of  man's  divine 
nature.  The  young  have  a  table  pre- 
pared for  them  in  the  presence  of  many 
enemies.  One  of  the  enemies  is,  in 
every  individual  case,  our  own  accumu- 
lated sinfulness  and  bad  memory.  We 
are  constrained  to  excuse  ourselves  be- 
cause of  the  failings  and  faults  of 
others.  We  are  constrained  to  feel  that 
since  everybody  is  doing  it,  it  is  all 
right  for  us  to  do  it,  and  this  is  persua- 
sively propounded  by  people  in  various 
fields  who  rely  on  the  statistical  method 
and  suggest  that  since  large  numbers 
are  doing  it,  then  it  must  be  all  right 
for  everybody  to  do  it,  just  so  long  as 
you  don't  go  too  far. 

Well,  a  tendency  in  man  to  excuse 
himself  has  ever  been  with  us.  Saul 
was  sent  on  a  great  mission.  Saul 
failed  and  then  blamed  it  on  his  people 
when  he  was  confronted  by  the  Proph- 
et Samuel.  Saul  told  a  falsehood,  and 
Samuel  said,  "Then  what  is  this  bleat- 
ing I  hear  in  my  ear"  (see  1  Sam. 
15:14),  and  then  Saul  blamed  his  de- 
fection on  his  people. 

'Turn  Right— Go  Straight" 

In  the  day  of  the  restoration  a  great 
young  prophet  had  to  learn  the  lesson, 
too.  Many  of  you  are  acquainted  with 
the  third  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  this  "handbook  of  the  res- 
toration." May  I  read  from  it  a  verse 


or  two  which  the  Lord  gave  to  Joseph 
Smith  after  a  misfortune  in  which  he 
had  succumbed  to  the  pressure  to  do 
something  he  knew  wasn't  exactly 
right.  His  benefactor  and  friend  who 
was  helping  him,  providing  for  him, 
working  with  him,  wanted  some  as- 
surance for  his  wife  and  family  that 
there  really  was  a  prophet  at  work, 
and  so  Joseph  Smith  reluctantly  sur- 
rendered to  him  the  manuscript  of  the 
then  translated  portion  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  This  came  in  response: 

"And  behold,  how  oft  you  have  trans- 
gressed the  commandments  and  the 
laws  of  God,  and  have  gone  on  in  the 
persuasions  of  men. 

"For,  behold,  you  should  not  have 
feared  man  more  than  God.  Although 
men  set  at  naught  the  counsels  of  God, 
and  despise  his  words — 

"Yet  you  should  have  been  faithful; 
and  he  would  have  extended  his  arm 
and  supported  you  against  all  the  fiery 
darts  of  the  adversary;  and  he  would 
have  been  with  you  in  every  time  of 
trouble. 

"Behold,  thou  art  Joseph,  .  .  ."  (D&C 
3:6-9.) 

"Thou  Art  You" 

Could  there  be  any  more  sublime  or 
sweet  or  perceptive  answer  to  the  sug- 
gestion, this  siren  song  of  foolishness, 
that  "everyone  is  doing  it"?  Behold, 
thou  art  you.  And  God  has  given  you  a 
table,  bounteously  laden  with  the  good 
things  of  eternity.  Will  you  give  it  up 
because  others  are  giving  up?  Will  you 
surrender  the  sweet  and  sound  and 
strong  principles  of  this  "vital  force" 
and  "living  religion"? 

Why  is  it  a  vital  force  and  whence 
are  its  roots?  It  is  a  vital  force  because 
this  is  a  vital  religion.  God  lives.  He 
is  a  living,  revealing,  communicating 
Father.  Christ  lives.  He  is  the  living 
Head  of  this  Church.  There  is  a  living 
prophet  on  the  earth  to  whom  the  Father 
communicates  and  reveals  his  will. 
Man  was  in  the  beginning  with  God, 
and  we  are  always  going  to  live. 

God  bless  us  to  choose  to  live  in  his 
presence  with  our  loved  ones,  creatively, 
actively,  effectively  serving  and  loving 
and  learning,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Marion 
D.  Hanks  of  the  First  Coucil  of  Seventy. 
The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 


Third  Day 

"Long  Hast  Thou  Stood,  O  Church  of 
God,"  after  which  Elder  Gordon  B. 
Hinckley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  address  us. 


ELDER  GORDC 

Of  the  Council  of 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  It  is  so 
great  a  privilege  and  so  serious  a  re- 
sponsibility to  speak  from  this  pulpit 
that  I  earnestly  seek  the  inspiration  of 
the  Holy  Spirit. 

University  Splendor  and  Youth 

The  other  day  I  strolled  about  the 
campus  of  one  of  our  great  universities. 
I  was  impressed  with  the  splendor  of 
the  buildings,  the  immaculate  labora- 
tories, the  teaching  theaters,  the  mag- 
nificent library,  the  dormitories,  the 
gymnasiums.  But  I  was  more  im- 
pressed with  the  students.  There  were 
some  17,000  of  them — handsome  young 
men  and  beautiful  young  women,  seri- 
ous and  intent  and  earnest. 

These  are  a  few  of  the  hundreds  of 
thousands  who  have  returned  to  college 
life  this  fall.  I  am  awed  by  the  great 
forces  of  knowledge  which  they  repre- 
sent. Never  before  have  so  many  been 
educated  in  the  learning  of  the  world. 

Abundance  of  Knowledge 

What  a  marvelous  thing  this  is — 
the  intensive  schooling  of  a  large  per- 
centage of  the  youth  of  the  land,  who 
meet  daily  at  the  feet  of  able  instruc- 
tors to  garner  knowledge  from  all  of 
the  ages  of  man.  The  extent  of  that 
knowledge  is  staggering.  It  encompas- 
ses the  stars  of  the  universe,  the 
geology  of  the  earth,  the  history  of 
nations,  the  culture  of  peoples,  the 
languages  they  speak,  the  operation  of 
governments,  the  laws  of  commerce, 
the  behavior  of  the  atom,  the  functions 
of  the  body,  and  the  wonders  of  the 
mind. 

With  so  much  available  knowledge 
one  would  think  that  the  world  might 
well  be  near  a  state  of  perfection.  And 
yet  we  are  constantly  made  aware  of 
the  other  side  of  the  coin — of  the  sick- 
ness of  our  society,  of  the  contentions 


J  B.  HINCKLEY 

le  Twelve  Apostles 

and  troubles  that  bring  misery  into 
the  lives  of  millions. 

Life  is  More  than  Secular  Learning 

Each  day  we  are  made  increasingly 
aware  of  the  fact  that  life  is  more 
than  science  and  mathematics,  more 
than  history  and  literature.  There  is 
need  for  another  education,  without 
which  the  substance  of  our  secular 
learning  may  lead  only  to  our  destruc- 
tion. I  refer  to  the  education  of  the 
heart,  of  the  conscience,  of  the  charac- 
ter, of  the  spirit — these  indefinable 
aspects  of  our  personalities  which  de- 
termine so  certainly  what  we  are  and 
what  we  do  in  our  relationships  one 
with  another. 

And  so  I  would  like  to  talk  briefly 
with  our  young  people,  those  in  the 
Church  and  those  out  of  the  Church — 
with  the  youth  of  America  and  of  other 
good  lands. 

"Get  Understanding" 

Thirty  years  ago  while  living  in 
England  I  belonged  to  the  London  Cen- 
tral YMCA.  I  suppose  that  old  build- 
ing has  long  since  gone,  but  I  can  never 
forget  the  words  that  faced  us  in  the 
foyer  each  time  we  entered.  They  were 
the  words  of  Solomon:  ".  .  .  with  all  thy 
getting  get  understanding."  (Prov.  4:7.) 

I  commend  them  to  you. 

Understanding  of  what?  Understand- 
ing of  ourselves,  of  the  purposes  of 
life,  of  our  relationship  to  God  who  is 
our  Father,  of  the  great  divinely  given 
principles  which  for  centuries  have 
provided  the  sinew  of  man's  real  pro- 
gress! 

Cornerstones  of  Secular  Knowledge 

I  cannot  discuss  them  all,  but  I 
would  like  to  suggest  three.  I  offer 
them  not  in  a  spirit  of  preachment 


ELDER  GORDO 

but  in  a  spirit  of  invitation.  Let  these 
be  added  to  your  vast  store  of  secular 
knowledge  to  become  cornerstones  on 
which  to  establish  lives  that  will  be 
fruitful,  productive,  and  happy. 

Gratitude,  a  Divine  Principle 

The  first  I  mention  is  gratitude,  the 
second  is  virtue,  the  third  is  faith. 
Others  might  be  named,  but  I  believe 
these  are  fundamental  to  the  full  devel- 
opment of  every  child  of  God. 

Gratitude  is  a  divine  principle.  The 
Lord  has  declared  through  revelation: 
"Thou  shalt  thank  the  Lord  thy  God  in 
all  things 

"And  in  nothing  doth  man  offend  God, 
or  against  none  is  his  wrath  kindled, 
save  those  who  confess  not  his  hand  in 
all  things,  .  .  ."  (D&C  59:7,  21.) 

Our  society  is  afflicted  by  a  spirit  of 
thoughtless  arrogance  unbecoming  those 
who  have  been  so  magnificently  blessed. 
How  grateful  we  ought  to  be  for 
the  bounties  we  enjoy.  Absence  of 
gratitude  is  the  mark  of  the  narrow, 
uneducated  mind.  It  bespeaks  a  lack 
of  knowledge  and  the  ignorance  of  self- 
sufficiency.  It  expresses  itself  in  ugly 
egotism  and  frequently  in  wanton  mis- 
chief. We  have  recently  seen  our 
beaches,  our  parks,  our  forests  littered 
with  ugly  refuse  by  young  men — many 
of  them  college  men — who  evidently 
have  no  appreciation  for  their  beauty. 
Only  the  other  day  I  rode  through 
thousands  of  acres  of  blackened  land 
scourged  by  a  fire  evidently  set  by  a 
careless  smoker  whose  only  concern  had 
been  the  selfish  pleasure  gained  from 
a  cigaret. 

Where  there  is  appreciation,  there  is 
courtesy,  there  is  concern  for  the  rights 
and  property  of  others.  Without  it 
there  is  arrogance  and  evil. 

Where  there  is  gratitude,  there  is 
humility,  as  opposed  to  pride. 

How  magnificently  we  are  blessed. 
How  thankful  we  ought  to  be.  A  recent 
bulletin  of  the  Royal  Bank  of  Canada 
dealt  with  underprivileged  people  of 
the  world.  It  said  among  other  things: 

"It  is  difficult  for  North  Americans 
to  understand  the  plight  of  people  in 
underdeveloped  countries,  because  we 
have  never  been  hungry.  No  one  dies 
here    of   starvation.    Elsewhere  more 


r  B.  HINCKLEY  117 

than  1,500  million  people  go  to  bed 
hungry  every  night  ....  The  fact  is 
that  not  more  than  one  in  a  hundred 
of  the  people  in  underdeveloped  coun- 
tries will  ever,  in  all  his  life,  have 
what  a  North  American  family  would 
consider  a  good,  square  meal." 

Reflect  on  that,  my  dear  young 
friends,  and  then  get  on  your  knees 
and  thank  the  Lord  for  his  bounties. 
Cultivate  a  spirit  of  thanksgiving  for 
the  blessing  of  life  and  for  the  marvel- 
ous gifts  and  privileges  you  enjoy.  The 
Lord  has  said,  "The  meek  shall  inherit 
the  earth."  (See  Matt.  5:5.)  I  cannot 
escape  the  interpretation  that  meek- 
ness implies  a  spirit  of  gratitude  as 
opposed  to  an  attitude  of  self-suffi- 
ciency, an  acknowledgment  of  a  greater 
power  beyond  oneself,  a  recognition  of 
God  and  an  acceptance  of  his  command- 
ments. This  is  the  beginning  of  wisdom. 

"Be  thou  humble;  and  the  Lord  thy 
God  shall  lead  thee  by  the  hand,  and 
give  thee  answer  to  thy  prayers." 
(D&C  112:10.) 

Walk  with  gratitude  before  him  who 
is  the  giver  of  life  and  every  good  gift. 

Virtue 

Associated  with  gratitude  is  virtue. 
I  think  they  are  related  because  he 
who  is  disposed  to  shun  virtue  lacks 
appreciation  of  life,  its  purposes,  and 
the  happiness  and  the  well-being  of 
others. 

One  of  our  great  national  magazines 
recently  stated  the  following:  "We  are 
witnessing  the  death  of  the  old  moral- 
ity. The  established  moral  guidelines 
have  been  yanked  from  our  hands.  .  .  . 
We  are  left  floundering  in  a  money- 
motivated,  sex-obsessed,  big-city  dom- 
inated society.  We  must  figure  out  for 
ourselves  how  to  apply  the  traditional 
moral  principles  to  the  problems  of  our 
times.  Many  find  this  burden  too 
heavy."  (Look  Magazine,  Sept.,  1963, 
p.  74.) 

Heavy  though  it  be,  there  is  a  way 
to  apply  traditional  moral  principles 
in  our  day.  For  some  unknown  reason 
there  is  constantly  appearing  the  false 
rationalization  that  at  one  time  in  the 
long-ago,  virtue  was  easy  and  that  now 
it  is  difficult.  I  would  like  to  remind 
you  that  there  has  never  been  a  time 


118 

Sunday,  October  4 

since  the  creation  when  the  same  forces 
were  not  at  work  which  are  at  work 
today.  The  proposal  made  by  Poti- 
phar's  wife  to  Joseph  in  Egypt  is  not 
essentially  different  from  that  faced  by 
many  a  young  man  and  woman  in  our 
day. 

The  influences  today  may  be  more 
apparent  and  more  seductive,  but  they 
are  no  more  compelling.  You  cannot  be 
shielded  entirely  from  these  influences. 
They  are  all  about  us.  Our  culture  is 
saturated  with  them.  But  the  same 
kind  of  self-discipline  exercised  by 
Joseph  will  yield  the  same  beneficial 
result.  Notwithstanding  the  so-called 
"new  morality,"  notwithstanding  the 
much-discussed  changes  in  our  moral 
standard,  there  is  no  adequate  sub- 
stitute for  virtue.  The  old  standard  is 
challenged  on  every  campus  in  America 
as  it  is  in  Europe.  But  God  has  not 
abrogated  his  commandments. 

The  violation  of  these  command- 
ments in  this,  as  in  any  other  age, 
brings  only  regret,  sorrow,  loss  of  self- 
respect,  and  in  many  cases  tragedy. 
Rationalization  and  equivocation  will 
not  erase  the  cankering  scar  that 
blights  the  self-respect  of  a  young  man 
who  takes  that  virtue  which  he  can 
never  replace.  Self-justification  will 
never  mend  the  heart  of  a  young  wom- 
an who  has  drifted  into  moral  tragedy. 

In  April  of  1942,  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church  issued  a  message 
which  was  read  from  this  pulpit.  It 
has  the  tone  of  scripture.  I  commend 
it  to  you: 

"To  the  youth  of  the  Church . . .  above 
all  we  plead  with  you  to  live  clean,  for 
the  unclean  life  leads  only  to  suffer- 
ing, misery,  and  woe  physically, — and 
spiritually  it  is  the  path  to  destruction. 
How  glorious  and  near  to  the  angels  is 
youth  that  is  clean;  this  youth  has  joy 
unspeakable  here  and  eternal  happiness 
hereafter."  (The  Improvement  Era, 
45:273.) 

I  thought  of  this  as  I  observed  these 
thousands  of  handsome  young  men  and 
beautiful  young  women  on  the  univer- 
sity campus  the  other  day.  And  I 
thought  of  a  wise  statement  from  the 
scripture:  "...  the  commandment  is  a 
lamp;  and  the  law  is  light.  .  .  ."  (Prov. 
6:23.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

You  of  marvelous  promise,  you  young 
men  and  women  of  great  ability,  do  not 
mock  God.  Do  not  flout  his  law.  Let 
virtue  be  a  cornerstone  on  which  to 
build  your  lives. 

Faith 

I  turn  next  to  faith.  I  do  not  mean 
it  in  an  abstract  sense.  I  mean  it  as  a 
living,  vital  force  with  recognition  of 
God  as  our  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  as 
our  Savior.  When  we  accept  this  basic 
premise,  there  will  come  an  acceptance 
of  their  teachings  and  an  obedience 
which  will  bring  peace  and  joy  in  this 
life  and  exaltation  in  the  life  to  come. 

I  do  not  regard  this  as  a  theological 
platitude.  I  regard  it  as  a  fact  of  life. 
It  can  become  the  very  wellspring  of 
purposeful  living.  Can  you  imagine  a 
more  compelling  motivation  to  worth- 
while endeavor  than  the  knowledge  that 
you  are  a  child  of  God,  the  Creator  of 
the  universe,  our  all-wise  Heavenly 
Father  who  expects  you  to  do  some- 
thing with  your  life  and  who  will  give 
help  when  help  is  sought  for? 

These  wonderful  college  years  are 
years  of  learning.  Jesus  said:  ".  .  . 
learn  of  me.  .  . . 

"For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden 
is  light."  (Matt.  11:29-30.) 

I  should  like  to  suggest  that  you  fol- 
low that  injunction  given  by  the  Son 
of  God.  With  all  of  your  learning, 
learn  of  him.  With  all  of  your  study, 
seek  knowledge  of  the  Master.  That 
knowledge  will  complement  in  a  won- 
derful way  the  secular  training  you 
receive  and  give  a  fulness  to  your  life 
and  character  that  can  come  in  no  other 
way. 

We  were  aboard  a  plane  some  years 
ago  flying  between  Honolulu  and  Los 
Angeles.  It  was  in  the  days  when  only 
propeller-driven  aircraft  were  avail- 
able. About  midway  in  our  journey  one 
of  the  motors  stopped.  There  was  a 
decrease  in  speed,  a  lowering  in  alti- 
tude, and  a  certain  amount  of  nervous- 
ness among  those  aboard.  The  simple 
fact  of  the  matter  was  that  much  of 
the  power  was  missing  and  the  haz- 
ards were  increased  accordingly.  With- 
out that  power  we  could  not  fly  high, 
fast,  and  safely. 

It  is  so  with  our  lives  when  we  dis- 


ELDER  GORDOl 

count  the  need  for  faith  and  disregard 
knowledge  of  the  Lord. 

Passive  acceptance  is  not  enough. 
Vibrant  testimony  comes  of  anxious 
seeking.  Strength  comes  of  active  serv- 
ice in  the  Master's  cause.  ".  .  .  learn  of 
me  .  .  ."  (ibid.,  11:29),  was  Jesus'  in- 
junction. He  further  declared  that  he 
that  doeth  the  will  of  the  Father 
".  . .  shall  know  of  the  doctrine  whether 
it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of 
myself."  (John  7:17.) 

And  so,  while  you  read  math  and 
physics  and  chemistry,  read  also  the 
Gospels  of  the  New  Testament  And 
read  the  testament  of  the  New  World, 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  was 
brought  forth  by  the  power  of  God 
".  .  .  to  the  convincing  of  the  Jew  and 
the  gentile  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ." 

I  should  like  to  pass  on  to  you  the 
words  of  a  wise  old  man  who  had  trav- 
eled far  and  suffered  much  and  grown 
ripe  in  wisdom.  I  speak  of  him  of  whom 
Brother  Hunter  has  spoken  so  elo- 
quently today.  These  words  were 
written  by  Paul  to  Timothy  while  Paul 
was  a  prisoner  of  Nero  in  Rome.  To 
his  beloved  young  friend  he  said,  ".  .  . 
God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit  of 
fear;  but  of  power,  and  of  love,  and  of 
a  sound  mind. 

"Be  not  thou  therefore  ashamed  of 
the  testimony  of  our  Lord,  .  .  ."  (2 
Tim.  1:7-8.) 

To  every  young  man  and  woman  I 
commend  this  stirring  injunction.  This 
is  the  spirit  that  will  reform  the  world. 

I  have  been  impressed  with  a  state- 
ment from  Charles  Malik,  former  presi- 
dent of  the  General  Assembly  of  the 
United  Nations.   He  said  this: 

"In  this  fearful  age  it  is  not  enough 
to  be  happy  and  prosperous  and  secure 
yourselves;  it  is  not  enough  to  tell 
others:  look  at  us,  how  happy  we  are; 
just  copy  our  system,  our  know-how, 
and  you  will  be  happy  yourselves.  In 
this  fearful  age  you  must  transcend 
your  system;  you  must  have  a  message 
to  proclaim  to  others;  you  must  mean 
something  in  terms  of  ideas  and  atti- 
tudes and  fundamental  outlook  on  life; 
and  this  something  must  vibrate  with 
relevance  to  all  conditions  of  men." 
(Successful  Leadership,  p.  5.) 

To  every  young  man  and  woman 
within  the  sound  of  my  voice  I  should 


f  B.  HINCKLEY  119 

like  to  say,  take  upon  yourself  the  name 
of  the  Lord  and  then  with  faith  go 
forth  to  teach  with  relevance  that 
which  will  affect  the  lives  of  men  and 
bring  peace  and  joy  to  the  world.  The 
need  of  the  world  is  a  generation  of 
men  of  learning  and  influence  who  can 
and  will  stand  up  and  in  sincerity  and 
without  equivocation  declare  that  God 
lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 

And  so,  my  dear  young  friends,  I 
suggest  to  you  with  all  earnestness 
that  as  you  pursue  your  secular  studies 
you  add  another  dimension  to  your 
life,  the  cultivation  of  the  spirit.  God 
bless  you  with  that  peace  which  comes 
from  him  alone,  and  that  growth 
which  comes  of  sharing  with  others 
that  which  is  most  precious,  your  faith, 
I  pray  as  I  give  you  my  witness  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner 

Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  been  our 
concluding  speaker. 

As  we  conclude  this  sixth  session  of 
the  134th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  we  express  again  our  thanks  and 
appreciation  to  the  owners  and  managers 
of  the  many  television  and  radio  stations 
who  have  offered  their  facilities  as  a 
public  service  to  make  the  proceedings 
of  this  Conference  available  to  millions 
throughout  North  America,  South 
America,  Africa,  and  in  many  other 
areas. 

We  should  like  to  acknowledge  several 
telegrams  and  cablegrams  that  we  have 
received  from  people  in  different  coun- 
tries expressing  their  appreciation  and 
sending  their  best  wishes.  We  also  ex- 
press our  sincere  thanks  and  appreciation 
to  the  Tabernacle  Choir  for  their  in- 
spirational singing. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  that  inspir- 
ing number,  "Sing  and  Rejoice  to  the 
Lord."  Following  the  singing  the  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  Elder  George 
B.  Hill,  formerly  president  of  the  East- 
ern Atlantic  States  Mission.  This  Con- 
ference will  then  be  adjourned  until 
two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

(Postlude  singing  by  Choir:  "Father 
In  Heaven") 


120 

Sunday,  October  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
THIRD  DAY 


Third  Day 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  the  concluding  session 
of  our  Conference.  This  afternoon  many 
television  and  radio  stations  throughout 
the  western  part  of  the  United  States 
will  carry  the  proceedings  of  the  con- 
cluding session,  and  the  proceedings  of 
both  sessions  today  will  be  re-broadcast 
to  far  distant  places  by  Radio  Station 
KSL  Monday,  October  5th,  from  one 
o'clock  to  five  o'clock  a.m. 

We  wish  to  announce  that  Saturday 
evening  an  inspirational  meeting  of  the 
priesthood  of  the  Church  was  held  here  in 
the  Tabernacle.  The  proceedings  of  this 
meeting  were  relayed  by  closed  circuit 
broadcast  originating  in  the  Tabernacle 
to  members  of  the  priesthood  in  400 
separate  locations  in  all  parts  of  the 
United  States  and  Canada.  It  is  esti- 
mated that  70,000  holders  of  the  priest- 
hood participated  in  this  meeting.  Two 
members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
spoke  to  us  and  their  messages  were 
of  very  great  importance  and  very  well 
done.  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee,  by  special 
appointment,  gave  a  very  important 
message  to  the  priesthood  which  will  be 


supplemented  by  further  word  from  the 
general  committee.  Bishop  Robert  L. 
Simpson  also  spoke,  as  did  President 
Tanner. 

We  extend  a  cordial  welcome  to  all 
present  this  afternoon,  our  special  guests, 
educational  leaders,  and  others. 

The  music  for  this  afternoon  session 
will  be  rendered  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  with  Richard  P.  Condie  and 
Jay  E.  Welch  conducting.  Alexander 
Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  rendering,  "With  a 
Voice  of  Singing,"  after  which  the  in- 
vocation will  be  offered  by  Elder  C. 
Laird  Snelgrove,  formerly  president  of 
the  Argentine  Mission. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"In  My  Father's  House  Are  Many  Man- 
sions," Albert  D.  Fallows  as  soloist, 
directed  by  Brother  Condie. 

After  the  singing,  our  first  speaker  this 
afternoon  will  be  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  he 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  John  Longden, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Sister  Petersen  and  I  bring  to  you  the 
love  and  greetings  of  the  many  thou- 
sands of  faithful  Saints  and  missionaries 
in  the  West  European  Mission  area. 
They  look  forward  to  these  conferences 
quite  as  much  as  we  do  here.  They  look 
forward  with  much  anticipation  to  the 
messages  given  here.  They  receive  them 
sometimes  in  printed  word  and  by  radio 
and  otherwise.  They  are  uplifted  by  the 
conference.  Their  hearts  are  with  us 
here  today  together  with  their  faith  and 
prayers. 

We  bring  special  greetings  to  you, 
President  and  Sister  McKay,  as  you  look 
in  on  this  conference.  The  many  won- 


derful Saints,  the  lovely  people  of 
Europe,  love  you  and  honor  you;  and 
they  would  have  us  bring  their  greeting 
to  you.  And  in  the  words  of  one  of  our 
loveliest  songs  they  would  have  us  say: 

"We  ever  pray  for  thee,  our  Prophet 
dear, 

That  Cod  will  give  to  thee  comfort  and 
cheer; 

As  the  advancing  years  furrow  thy  brow, 
Still  may  the  light  within  shine  bright 
as  now." 

— Evan  Stephens,  Hymns,  386. 

We   give  you,   President   and  Sister 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


121 


McKay,  our  love  and  blessing  from  the 
West  European  Mission. 

I  would  like  to  talk  with  you  today 
about  a  subject  which  is  very  important 
to  the  missionaries  of  the  Church  as 
well  as  to  ourselves  and  address  my  re- 
marks very  largely  to  those  who  are 
investigating  our  great  Church  and 
studying  with  our  missionaries. 

The  Bible— the  Word  of  God 

We  Latter-day  Saints  believe  the  Bible 
to  be  the  word  of  God.  We  love  it,  and 
we  use  it  continuously.  We  also  believe 
the  Book  of  Mormon  and  other  modern 
scriptures  to  be  the  word  of  God.  Some 
people  who  study  the  gospel  with  us  are 
concerned  by  this  latter  fact  because 
they  are  of  the  opinion  that  the  Bible 
contains  all  of  the  word  of  God  and  that 
there  can  be  no  more  scripture.  They 
turn  to  the  last  chapter  of  the  book  of 
Revelation,  which  is  also  the  concluding 
part  of  the  Bible,  and  say  that  it  proves 
that  there  should  be  no  scripture  other 
than  the  Bible.  The  words  of  John  the 
Revelator  to  which  they  refer  read  as 
follows: 

"For  I  testify  unto  every  man  that 
heareth  the  words  of  the  prophecy  of 
this  book,  If  any  man  shall  add  unto 
these  things,  God  shall  add  unto  him  the 
plagues  that  are  written  in  this  book:" 
(Rev.  22:18.) 

John's  Order  Follows 
Precedent  of  Moses 

Of  course  a  careful  reading  of  this  text 
shows  very  clearly  that  John  the  Revela- 
tor was  speaking  only  of  the  book  of 
Revelation  and  not  of  any  collection 
of  other  sacred  writings.  Moses  used  a 
similar  expression  in  speaking  to  ancient 
Israel  when  he  said:  "Ye  shall  not  add 
unto  the  word  which  I  command  you, 
neither  shall  ye  diminish  ought  from 
it, .  .  ."  This  is  found  in  the  fourth  chap- 
ter of  the  book  of  Deuteronomy  (verse  2). 
In  the  12th  chapter  of  the  same  book 
Moses  said  this:  "What  thing  soever  I 
command  you,  observe  to  do  it:  thou 
shalt  not  add  thereto,  nor  diminish  from 
it."  (Verse  32.) 

Can  anyone  suppose  that  in  these 
words  Moses  laid  down  a  prohibition 
against  all  subsequent  revelations  and 
against  all  books  which  might  be  called 


scripture  in  years  to  come?  Did  he  have 
the  power  to  silence  all  future  prophets 
and  forbid  them  to  speak  or  write  as  God 
intended  that  they  should?  Of  course 
not,  or  we  would  be  without  most  of  the 
Old  Testament  and  would  have  none  of 
the  New  Testament  at  all. 

It  was  the  same  with  John  the  Reve- 
lator. In  warning  against  additions  to 
the  book  of  Revelation  he  spoke  of  that 
book  only,  insisting  that  no  one  attempt 
to  change  or  corrupt  what  he  had  said. 
The  Bible  was  not  compiled  when  John 
wrote  the  book  of  Revelation,  so  he 
could  not  possibly  have  referred  to  it. 
Furthermore,  scholars  tell  us  that  the 
Gospel  of  John  was  written  after  the 
book  of  Revelation,  and  if  this  be  true 
it  becomes  another  indication  that  John 
had  no  thought  of  precluding  other 
writings  but  only  of  protecting  this  par- 
ticular book  of  Revelation  from  change 
or  corruption. 

Then  what  about  subsequent  revela- 
tion? What  about  additional  scripture? 
Should  earnest  readers  of  the  Bible  look 
for  additional  scriptures?  Or  should  they 
be  content  with  what  they  now  have? 
All  students  of  Holy  Writ  know  that 
the  Bible  itself  refers  to  a  number  of 
other  books  which  the  compilers  did  not 
include  in  it,  either  because  they  did 
not  have  access  to  them  or  because  they 
did  not  consider  them  to  be  canonical. 

No  one  who  understands  the  facts  be- 
lieves that  the  Bible  contains  all  that 
God  has  ever  revealed  to  human  beings, 
and  the  Bible  itself  confirms  this  stand. 
It  is  interesting  to  ask  ourselves  how  we 
obtained  the  Bible,  how  it  was  written 
originally,  and  by  what  means  it  was 
handed  on  down  to  us. 

Scriptures  After  Moses 

The  Bible  is  a  record  of  the  work  and 
writings  of  the  prophets  of  God  through- 
out the  ages,  together  with  a  history  of 
their  time.  It  begins  with  the  writings 
of  the  Prophet  Moses,  who  is  the  ac- 
cepted author  of  the  first  five  books  of 
the  Old  Testament.  When  Joshua  was 
called  to  lead  Israel,  he  received  revela- 
tions also,  and  they  were  recorded  with 
the  history  of  his  time.  This  record  be- 
came known  as  the  book  of  Joshua.  It 
was  new  scripture  for  that  day  and  was 
placed  with  the  writings  of  Moses.  The 


122 

Sunday.  October  4 

book  of  Judges  came  next.  It  was  new 
scripture  also  and  was  added  to  the 
existing  volume.  Then  came  the  Prophet 
Samuel.  He  received  many  revelations 
and  wrote  much  history.  His  record  was 
new  scripture  for  his  day  and  was  added 
to  the  existing  and  now  fast-growing 
volume  of  God's  word. 

Who  among  us  would  discard  the 
writings  of  Samuel  because  in  earlier 
years  Moses  had  said,  "Ye  shall  not 
add  unto  the  word  which  I  command 
you,  .  .  ."?  It  is  obvious  that  Moses 
spoke  only  of  his  own  writings  and  not 
of  anything  written  in  subsequent  times 
by  men  called  to  be  prophets  like  unto 
himself. 

When  Ezra  and  Nehemiah  came  on 
the  scene,  they  received  revelations 
which  were  recorded  as  scripture  and 
placed  with  what  Moses,  Joshua,  and 
Samuel  had  written.  This  became  a  pat- 
tern by  which  we  obtained  the  entire 
Old  Testament.  Whenever  God  had  a 
people  on  the  earth,  he  raised  up 
prophets  who  spoke  in  his  name.  Their 
writings  became  our  scriptures.  New 
scripture  came  with  each  new  prophet, 
and  each  of  these  new  books  was  in- 
cluded with  the  scripture  already 
in  hand. 

This  pattern  held  true  for  the  New 
Testament  also.  As  the  sacred  word  of 
the  Christian  era  was  written,  it  be- 
came scripture.  Even  the  letters  of  Peter, 
James,  John,  Paul,  and  little-known 
Jude  became  scripture,  new  scripture. 
And  they  were  so  accepted  by  the  people 
of  that  day  and  added  to  the  final  vol- 
ume of  scripture  as  it  was  at  last  com- 
piled. 

Divine  Guidance  Through 
Continuous  Revelation 

That  is  the  way  in  which  the  Bible 
was  prepared  originally.  It  came  out  of 
a  well-ordered  procedure  of  the  Lord. 
It  was  always  the  purpose  of  God  to 
guide  his  people  and  not  let  them  drift, 
but  that  guidance  constituted  new  reve- 
lation every  time  it  was  given.  Prophets 
were  there  to  receive  it,  and  as  they 
wrote,  their  record  became  new  scripture. 

Don't  you  see  that  one  of  the  greatest 
marks  of  identification  of  the  true 
Church  of  God  in  all  the  ages  has  been 
that  it  constantly  produced  new  scrip- 
ture? When  there  was  no  new  scripture, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

it  was  a  sign  that  there  was  no  new  reve- 
lation, and  when  there  was  no  new 
revelation,  there  was  no  divine  guid- 
ance. And  when  there  was  no  divine 
guidance,  the  people  drifted  into  error 
and  darkness.  Continuous  revelation  was 
essential  to  the  life  and  survival  of  the 
true  Church.  So  were  the  records  of  those 
new  revelations,  and  each  new  record 
became  new  scripture. 

New  Scripture  Evidence  of 
True  Church 

The  true  Church  must  always  produce 
new  scripture  according  to  this  pattern. 
If  it  does  not,  we  must  admit  that  it 
has  drifted  from  the  path  of  truth  and 
right.  It  was  Isaiah  who  explained  such 
a  situation  which  existed  anciently  when 
he  said: 

".  .  .  the  Lord's  hand  is  not  shortened, 
that  it  cannot  save;  neither  his  ear 
heavy,  that  it  cannot  hear: 

"For  your  iniquities  have  separated 
between  you  and  your  God,  and  your 
sins  have  hid  his  face  from  you,  .  .  ." 
(Isa.  59:1-2.) 

To  say  that  there  can  be  no  new  scrip- 
ture is  itself  unscriptural  and  contrary 
to  the  teachings  of  the  Bible.  If  we 
truly  believe  the  Bible,  we  must  expect 
additional  scripture  from  time  to  time, 
and  to  do  so  we  must  look  for  living 
prophets  to  receive  the  revelations  which 
are  to  become  that  new  scripture.  We 
cannot  escape  this  conclusion.  It  is  a 
well-established  pattern  of  God's  hand- 
dealings  with  men  all  down  through 
the  ages. 

New  Volumes  of  Scripture 

The  Latter-day  Saints  offer  to  the 
world  three  new  volumes  of  scripture: 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  is  a  sacred 
record  of  the  ancient  Americans,  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price,  which  contain  many  of 
the  revelations  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  They  are  books  of  priceless  value. 
They  sustain  the  truthfulness  of  the 
Bible  and  give  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  Mormonism.  They  declare  in  no  un- 
certain terms  that  God  has  spoken  in 
our  day  and  has  made  many  of  his 
gospel  principles  clear  and  understand- 
able through  these  modern  revelations. 

Would  you  like  to  hear  a  message 
from  God  as  given  in  our  day?  What 


ELDER  MARK 

would  you  give  to  hear  his  word  as 
revealed  in  modern  times,  fully  sup- 
porting and  sustaining  what  was  given 
anciently?  It  is  here.  We  have  it.  We 
offer  it  freely  to  all  mankind,  and  what 
we  offer  is  fully  authentic  as  were  the 
writings  of  Joshua  and  the  other  proph- 
ets when  added  to  those  of  Moses,  and  as 
was  the  New  Testament  when  added  to 
the  Old.  The  teachings  of  these  new 
scriptures  will  bring  you  divine  strength 
and  heavenly  light.  They  will  dissipate 
the  doubts  and  fears  that  have  arisen  in 
honest  minds  for  centuries  and  will 
answer  gospel  questions  which  have 
caused  many  misunderstandings  about 
God's  word. 

Baptism  is  Essential  to  Salvation 

Some  have  wondered,  for  example, 
about  the  necessity  of  baptism.  Is  bap- 
tism really  essential  to  salvation,  and 
if  so,  how  should  it  be  administered? 
If  the  Bible  leaves  you  in  doubt  on  these 
points  let  the  modern  scriptures  help 
you.  A  Book  of  Mormon  prophet,  in 
discussing  baptism,  said  at  one  time: 

".  .  .  if  the  Lamb  of  God,  he  being 
holy,  should  have  need  to  be  baptized 
by  water,  to  fulfil  all  righteousness,  O 
then,  how  much  more  need  have  we, 
being  unholy,  to  be  baptized,  yea,  even 
by  waterl 

".  .  .  he  showeth  unto  the  children  of 
men  that,  according  to  the  flesh  he 
humbleth  himself  before  the  Father,  and 
witnesseth  unto  the  Father  that  he 
would  be  obedient  unto  him  in  keeping 
his  commandments."  (2  Nephi  31:5,  7.) 

After  hearing  these  words  can  anyone 
doubt  the  necessity  of  baptism?  And 
would  you  like  to  know  how  baptism 
should  be  performed?  By  what  method? 
In  the  Book  of  Mormon  the  Savior  him- 
self explained  this  as  he  instructed  the 
men  whom  he  authorized  to  perform 
baptisms  in  ancient  America.  Said  he: 

".  .  .  ye  shall  go  down  and  stand  in 
the  water,  and  in  my  name  shall  ye 
baptize  them. 

"And  now  behold,  these  are  the  words 
which  ye  shall  say,  calling  them  by 
name,  saying: 

"Having  authority  given  me  of  Jesus 
Christ,  I  baptize  you  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Amen. 

"And  then  shall  ye  immerse  them  in 


E.  PETERSEN  123 

the  water,  and  come  forth  again  out  of 
the  water. 

".  .  .  On  this  wise  shall  ye  baptize; 
and  there  shall  be  no  disputations 
among  you."  (3  Nephi  11:23-26,  22.) 

How  unmistakably  clear  this  is! 

The  Lord  Lives 

Do  you  ever  doubt  the  actual  exist- 
ence of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ?  Would 
you  like  some  modern  assurance  that  he 
really  lives?  Modern  revelation  provides 
it.  Listen  to  this  testimony  given  by 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  after 
a  personal  visitation  of  the  Savior  in  a 
sacred  temple  built  by  the  Mormon 
people  in  Kirtland,  Ohio.  They  said: 

"The  veil  was  taken  from  our  minds, 
and  the  eyes  of  our  understanding  were 
opened. 

"We  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon  the 
breastwork  of  the  pulpit,  before  us;  and 
under  his  feet  was  a  paved  work  of  pure 
gold,  in  color  like  amber. 

"His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire;  the 
hair  of  his  head  was  white  like  the 
pure  snow;  his  countenance  shone  above 
the  brightness  of  the  sun;  and  his  voice 
was  as  the  sound  of  the  rushing  of 
great  waters,  even  the  voice  of  Jehovah, 
saying: 

"I  am  the  first  and  the  last;  I  am  he 
who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was  slain;  I  am 
your  advocate  with  the  Father."  (D&C 
110:1-4.) 

Or  listen  to  the  testimony  given  by 
Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon  when 
they  said: 

".  .  .  this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all, 
which  we  give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and 
of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten 
sons  and  daughters  unto  God."  (Ibid., 
76:22-24.) 

Modern  Revelation  Beckons  Yon 

Isn't  that  thrilling?  Modern  revelation 
beckons  you.  It  can  enlighten  your  mind 
and  revitalize  your  whole  soul.  It  will 
bring  you  the  pure  and  simple  gospel 
taught  by  Paul  and  Peter.  It  will  give 
you  the  power  to  know  for  yourselves 
that  God  really  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 


124 

Sunday,  October  4 

Christ,  and  that  he  has  a  modern 
ministry. 

We  Latter-day  Saints  are  the  custo- 
dians of  that  modern  ministry.  We 
humbly  announce  to  the  world  that  we 
are  the  ordained  servants  of  Jesus  Christ. 
We  labor  for  him  and  in  his  name.  We 
have  living  prophets  among  us  now. 
They  speak,  they  write,  they  testify  in 
a  great  new  revelation  of  God. 

We  do  not  teach  the  commandments 
or  the  doctrines  of  men.  We  have  fully 
in  mind  the  warning  of  the  Apostle 
Paul  that  if  anyone  preach  any  other 
gospel  than  that  which  he  preached 
such  a  one  shall  be  accursed.  (See 
Gal.  1:8.)  And  we  remember  too  the 
teachings  of  the  Savior  when  he  said 
that  we  shall  be  judged  by  every  word 
that  we  speak,  even  every  idle  word. 
(See  Matt.  12:36.)  Knowing  all  of  this, 
we  bear  solemn  and  earnest  testimony  to 
you  that  what  we  teach  is  God's  own 
truth. 

The  Almighty  Speaks  Again  to  Man 

The  Almighty  has  reopened  the 
heavens.  He  has  appeared  to  modern 
men  and  spoken  to  them  personally, 
face  to  face,  even  as  he  did  unto  Moses. 
He  has  reestablished  his  true  Church  on 
the  earth,  even  as  it  was  in  ancient  times. 
He  has  raised  up  new  prophets  on  the 
earth  and  speaks  through  them.  He  has 
sent  to  the  earth  heavenly  messengers 
who  ordained  these  modern  prophets 
to  the  Holy  Priesthood  and  gave  them 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

the  divine  power  to  officiate  in  the 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  and  make  them 
valid. 

These  are  facts.  They  are  true,  and 
we  lie  not.  We  do  not  ask  you  to  take 
our  word  alone.  We  urge  you  to  go  to 
the  Lord  in  humble  prayer  and  seek  his 
guidance.  He  will  not  lead  you  astray. 
He  loves  you.  He  is  your  Father.  He  has 
taught  us  that  he  will  give  us  enlighten- 
ment and  give  it  generously. 

But  he  sets  up  one  condition.  We 
must  ".  .  .  ask  in  faith,  nothing  waver- 
ing. For  he  that  wavereth  is  like  a  wave 
of  the  sea  driven  with  the  wind  and 
tossed."  (James  1:6.)  And  yet  if  our 
search  is  honest  and  our  desire  sincere, 
he  promises  us  rich  rewards.  He  invites 
us  to  come  to  him  and  says:  "Ask,  and 
it  shall  be  given  you;  seek,  and  ye  shall 
find;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto 
you:"  (Matt.  7:7.) 

We  testify  to  you  of  the  truth  of  these 
things,  and  we  do  it  in  the  name  of  the 
Savior  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  and  President  of  the  West 
European  Mission.  Elder  John  Longden, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next 
speaker,  and  he  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


It  is  a  source  of  strength  to  my  testi- 
mony to  witness  the  evidence  of  inspira- 
tion during  these  conference  sessions. 
To  my  knowledge,  none  of  the  brethren 
are  instructed  in  these  general  sessions 
to  speak  upon  a  particular  subject; 
each  selects  his  own.  To  me  it  is  inter- 
esting and  inspirational  to  see  how  all 
of  these  talks  correlate  in  every  session, 
likewise  the  music  furnished  by  the 
various  choral  groups.  As  evidence, 
the  opening  number  this  afternoon  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  entitled,  "In  My 
Father's  House  Are  Many  Mansions," 
expresses  this  thought:  "Peace  I  leave 


with  you,  my  peace  I  give  unto  you: . . ." 
(John  14:27.) 

Two  weeks  or  so  ago,  I  selected  as 
my  subject,  "Peace." 

The  Prince  of  Peace 

In  the  words  of  the  Prophet  Isaiah 
as  he  prophesied  about  the  coming  of 
Jesus:  "for  unto  us  a  child  is  born, 
unto  us  a  son  is  given:  and  the  govern- 
ment shall  be  upon  his  shoulder;  and 
his  name  shall  be  called  Wonderful, 
Counsellor,  The  mighty  God,  The  ever- 
lasting Father,  The  Prince  of  Peace." 
(Isa.  9:6.) 


ELDER  JOHN 

Peace  is  a  word  about  which  we  hear 
much  today.  Is  it  being  used  loosely 
for  personal  gain  by  individuals  or 
groups? 

Peace  is  not  to  be  trifled  with.  May 
I  give  you  and  share  with  you  some 
thoughts  on  this  subject  as  related  by 
Wilferd  Petersen,  entitled  "Peace  Is 
More  than  a  Word." 

"The  word  peace  has  been  printed 
billions  of  times,  uttered  in  billions  of 
prayers,  spoken  millions  of  times  over 
the  radio  and  television  and  voiced 
thousands  of  times  by  every  member 
of  the  human  race  in  all  the  languages 
of  earth,  and  still  we  have  wars. 

"It  is  high  time  to  consider  that 
peace  is  more  than  a  word.  It  is  more 
than  a  spot  of  ink  on  a  piece  of  paper, 
or  a  sound  on  our  lips. 

"Peace  is  everything  that  makes  life 
worth  living. 

"Peace  is  God  on  both  sides  of  the 
table  in  a  conference. 

"Peace  is  good  will  in  action. 

"Peace  is  world-wide  neighborliness. 

"Peace  is  co-operation  and  team  work; 
it  is  pulling  with  people  instead  of 
pushing  them  around. 

"Peace  is  sanity  and  common  sense 
in  human  relations. 

"Peace  is  open-mindedness.  It  is  a 
willingness  to  listen  as  well  as  to  talk. 
It  is  looking  at  both  sides  of  a  situation 
objectively. 

"Peace  is  patience.  It  means  keeping 
our  tempers,  rising  above  petty  irrita- 
tions, taking  the  long  look.  It  means 
keeping  our  shirts  on  and  giving  time 
a  chance  to  work  its  magic. 

"Peace  is  having  the  courage  and 
humility  to  admit  mistakes  and  take  the 
blame  when  we  are  wrong. 

"Peace  is  international  courtesy.  It 
is  good  sportsmanship  in  world  affairs. 

"Peace  is  tact,  and  tact  has  been  de- 
fined as  the  ability  to  pull  the  stinger 
of  a  bee  without  getting  stung. 

"Peace  is  vision.  It  is  being  big 
enough  to  give  up  small  individual  ad- 
vantages for  the  universal  advantage 
of  a  warless  world. 

"Peace  is  using  the  Golden  Rule  as  a 
measuring  stick  in  solving  the  prob- 
lems of  the  world. 

"Peace  is  the  open  hand  instead  of 
the  clenched  fist.  It  is  tolerance  and 


LONGDEN  125 

understanding  toward  men  of  every 

class,  creed,  and  color. 

"Peace  is  a  mighty  faith.  It  is  a 
radiant  belief  in  the  potential  goodness 
and  greatness  of  men.  It  is  a  dynamic 
confidence  that  war  can  be  abolished 
forever. 

"Peace  is  a  thing  of  the  heart  as 
well  as  the  head.  It  is  a  warmth,  an 
enthusiasm,  a  magnetism,  that  reaches 
out  and  draws  people  together  in  a  com- 
mon purpose. 

"Peace  is  top  level  thinking,  feeling, 
acting.  It  is  rising  high  above  tanks, 
planes,  and  atom  bombs  as  a  way  of 
settling  disputes. 

"Peace  is  a  way  of  living." 

The  Gospel — Proclamation  of  Peace 

May  we  build  peace  in  the  little 
spheres  of  our  daily  lives,  our  homes, 
our  industries,  our  communities,  cities, 
states,  and  the  world. 

The  Lord  gave  a  revelation  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  recorded  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  105, 
verses  38  to  41.  This  was  given  June 
22,  1834,  when  members  of  the  Church 
were  being  persecuted  and  driven  from 
place  to  place. 

"And  again,  I  say  unto  you,  sue  for 
peace,  not  only  to  the  people  that  have 
smitten  you,  but  also  to  all  people; 

"And  lift  up  an  ensign  of  peace,  and 
make  a  proclamation  of  peace  unto  the 
ends  of  the  earth; 

"And  make  proposals  for  peace  unto 
those  who  have  smitten  you,  according 
to  the  voice  of  the  Spirit  which  is  in 
you,  and  all  things  shall  work  to- 
gether for  your  good. 

"Therefore,  be  faithful;  and  behold, 
and  lo,  I  am  with  you  even  unto  the 
end.  Even  so  .  .  .  ." 

The  message  of  peace  is  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Embodied  in  the  gos- 
pel is  a  complete  way  of  life. 

Today,  in  fulfilment  of  this  scripture 
to  establish  an  ensign,  there  are  seventy- 
four  missions  throughout  the  world,  ap- 
proximately 12,000  missionaries  going 
out  to  the  four  corners  of  the  earth,  de- 
livering a  message  which  will  bring 
peace  to  the  hearts  of  men.  This  will 
come  to  all  who  will  listen,  study,  pray, 
accept,  and  live  the  teachings  of  the 
Master. 


126 

Sunday,  October  4 

We  need  to  be  reminded  of  the 
prayer  offered  at  the  dedication  of  the 
temple  at  Kirtland,  Ohio,  March  27, 
1836.  This  prayer  was  given  to  the 
Prophet  by  revelation,  according  to  his 
written  statement  in  the  History  of  the 
Church,  2,  410-428: 

"...  that  thy  servants  may  go 
forth  from  this  house  armed  with  thy 
power  [the  power  of  truth,  righteous- 
ness, peace],  and  that  thy  name  may 
be  upon  them,  and  thy  glory  be  round 
about  them,  .  .  . 

"And  from  this  place  they  may  bear 
exceedingly  great  and  glorious  tidings, 
in  truth,  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth, 
that  they  may  know  that  this  is  thy 
work,  and  that  thou  hast  put  forth  thy 
hand,  to  fulfil  that  which  thou  hast 
spoken  by  the  mouths  of  the  prophets, 
concerning  the  last  days.  .  .  . 

"That  no  weapon  formed  against 
them  shall  prosper;  that  he  who  dig- 
geth  a  pit  for  them  shall  fall  into  the 
same  himself; 

"That  no  combination  of  wickedness 
shall  have  power  to  rise  up  and  prevail 
over  thy  people  upon  whom  thy  name 
shall  be  put  in  this  house  [the  tem- 
ple]; .  .  . 

"We  ask  thee,  Holy  Father,  to  con- 
found, and  astonish,  and  bring  to  shame 
and  confusion,  all  those  who  have 
spread  lying  reports  abroad,  over  the 
world,  against  thy  servant  or  servants, 
if  they  will  not  repent,  when  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  shall  be  proclaimed  in 
their  ears;  .  .  . 

"Have  mercy,  O  Lord,  upon  all  the 
nations  of  the  earth;  have  mercy  upon 
the  rulers  of  our  land;  may  those 
principles,  which  were  so  honorably  and 
nobly  defended,  namely,  the  Constitu- 
tion of  our  land,  by  our  fathers,  be 
established  forever."  (D&C  109:22-23, 
25-26,  29,  54.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


The  Author  of  Peace 

The  Savior  is  the  Author  of  Peace, 
the  Prince  of  Peace.  He  said:  Come, 
follow  me,  ".  .  .  for  my  yoke  is  easy,  and 
my  burden  is  light."    (Matt.  11:30.) 

The  application  of  his  gospel  in  our 
daily  lives  will  bring  peace  and  con- 
tentment to  the  soul,  for  his  promise 
unto  us  is:  "Peace  I  leave  with  you,  my 
peace  I  give  unto  you:  .  .  ."  (John  14: 
27.) 

May  I  quote  from  that  memorable 
sermon  given  by  President  David  O. 
McKay  last  October  conference,  to  be 
exact,  October  4,  1963: 

"Let  us  ever  keep  in  mind  that  life 
is  largely  what  we  make  it,  and  that 
the  Savior  of  men  has  marked  clearly 
and  plainly  just  how  joy  and  peace  may 
be  obtained.  It  is  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  adherence  thereto."  (CR, 
Oct.  1963,  p.  9.) 

Also  let  us  remember  his  opening  re- 
marks of  this  conference  read  by  his 
son  Robert  McKay,  "Path  to  Peace." 

May  we  realize,  then,  that  peace  is 
more  than  a  spot  of  ink  on  a  piece  of 
paper  or  a  sound  upon  our  lips.  It  is 
the  application  of  the  teachings  of  the 
Prince  of  Peace  in  our  daily  lives.  The 
prophets  have  been  and  are  speaking. 
May  we  follow  them.  May  all  we  think, 
say,  and  do  be  in  accord  with  the  teach- 
ings of  Jesus,  and  I  assure  you  we  will 
have  peace. 

For  this  I  pray  humbly,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  Savior. 
Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
Boyd  K.  Packer,  also  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us,  and  he  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  EIRay  L.  Chris- 
tiansen, Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Some  time  ago  a  representative  of 
the  Church  on  a  plane  bound  for 
a  large  west  coast  city  was  drawn  into 
conversation  with  a  young  attorney. 
Their   conversation   centered    on  the 


front  page  of  a  newspaper,  a  large 
city  tabloid  with  the  sordid,  the  ugly, 
the  tragic  openly  displayed. 

The  attorney  said  the  newspaper 
was  typical  of  humanity  and  typical 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 


127 


of  life — miserable,  meaningless,  and  in 
all  ways  useless  and  futile.  The  elder 
protested,  holding  that  life  was  pur- 
poseful, and  that  there  lives  a  God  who 
loves  his  children,  and  that  life  is  good 
indeed. 

When  the  attorney  learned  that  he 
was  speaking  to  a  minister  of  the  gos- 
pel, he  said  with  some  emphasis,  "All 
rightl  We  have  one  hour  and  twenty- 
eight  minutes  left  on  this  flight,  and  I 
want  you  to  tell  me  what  business  you 
or  anyone  else  has  traipsing  about  the 
earth  saying  that  there  is  a  God  or  that 
life  has  any  substantial  meaning." 

Jesus  Is  the  Christ 

He  then  confessed  himself  to  be  an 
atheist  and  pressed  his  disbelief  so 
urgently  that  finally  he  was  told,  "You 
are  wrong,  my  friend.  There  is  a  God. 
He  lives.  I  know  he  lives."  And  he 
heard  the  elder  proclaim  with  fervor 
his  witness  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 

But  the  testimony  fell  on  doubtful 
ears.  "You  don't  know"  he  said.  "No- 
body knows  that!  You  can't  know  it." 

The  elder  would  not  yield  and  the 
attorney  finally  said  condescendingly, 
"All  right.  You  say  you  know.  Then 
[inferring,  'if  you  are  so  smart']  tell 
me  how  you  know." 

The  elder  had  been  faced  with  ques- 
tions before,  in  written  and  oral  exami- 
nations attendant  to  receiving  advanced 
degrees,  but  never  had  a  question  come 
which  seemed  to  be  so  monumentally 
significant. 

I  mention  this  incident,  for  it  illus- 
trates the  challenge  that  members  of 
the  Church  face — all  of  them.  This 
challenge  particularly  becomes  a 
stumbling  block  to  our  youth.  They 
face  a  dilemma  when  the  cynic  and  the 
skeptic  treat  them  with  academic  con- 
tempt because  they  hold  to  a  simple 
child-like  faith.  Before  such  a  chal- 
lenge many  of  them  turn  away,  em- 
barrassed and  ashamed  that  they 
cannot  answer  the  question. 

Essential  to  Knowledge  of 
Spiritual  Truth 

As  our  friend  attempted  to  answer 
this  question,  he  found  himself  help- 
less to  communicate  with  the  attorney, 
for  when  he  said,  "The  Holy  Ghost  has 


borne  witness  to  my  soul,"  the  attorney 
said,  "I  don't  know  what  you  are  talk- 
ing about." 

The  words  "prayer"  and  "discern- 
ment" and  "faith"  were  meaningless 
to  the  attorney,  for  they  were  outside 
the  realm  of  his  experience. 

"You  see,"  said  the  attorney,  "you 
don't  really  know.  If  you  did,  you  would 
be  able  to  tell  me  how  you  know."  The 
implication  was  that  anything  we  know 
we  readily  can  explain  in  words  alone. 

But  Paul  said: 

"Now  we  have  received,  not  the 
spirit  of  the  world,  but  the  spirit  which 
is  of  God;  that  we  might  know  the 
things  that  are  freely  given  to  us  of 
God. 

"Which  things  also  we  speak,  not 
in  the  words  which  man's  wisdom 
teacheth,  but  which  the  Holy  Ghost 
teacheth;  comparing  spiritual  things 
with  spiritual. 

"But  the  natural  man  receiveth  not 
the  things  of  the  Spirit  of  God:  for 
they  are  foolishness  unto  him:  neither 
can  he  know  them,  because  they  are 
spiritually  discerned."  (1  Cor.  2:12-14.) 

The  elder  felt  that  he  might  have 
borne  his  testimony  unwisely  and 
prayed  in  his  heart  that  if  the  young 
attorney  could  not  understand  the 
words,  he  could  at  least  feel  the  sin- 
cerity of  the  declaration. 

"All  knowledge  is  not  conveyed  in 
words  alone,"  he  said.  And  then  he 
asked  the  attorney,  "Do  you  know  what 
salt  tastes  like?" 

"Of  course  I  do,"  was  the  reply. 

"When  did  you  taste  salt  last?" 

"Why,  just  as  we  had  dinner  on  the 
plane." 

"You  just  think  you  know  what  salt 
tastes  like,"  said  the  elder. 

"I  know  what  salt  tastes  like  as 
well  as  I  know  anything,"  said  the  at- 
torney. 

"If  I  gave  you  a  cup  of  salt  and  a 
cup  of  sugar  and  let  you  taste  them 
both,  could  you  tell  the  salt  from  the 

sugar?" 

"Now  you  are  getting  juvenile," 
was  his  reply.  "Of  course  I  could  tell 
the  difference.  I  know  what  salt  tastes 
like.  It  is  an  everyday  experience;  I 
know  it  as  well  as  I  know  anything." 

"Then,"  said  the  elder,  "may  I  ask 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


128 

Sunday,  October  4 

you  one  further  question?  Assuming 
that  I  had  never  tasted  salt,  could  you 
explain  to  me,  in  words,  just  what  it 
tastes  like?" 

After  some  thought  the  attorney 
ventured,  "Well  ...  I  ...  it 
is  not  sweet,  and  it  is  not  sour." 

"You  have  told  me  what  it  isn't," 
was  the  answer,  "not  what  it  is." 

Limitations  of  Words 

After  several  attempts  he  admitted 
failure  in  the  little  exercise  of  convey- 
ing in  words  knowledge  so  common- 
place as  that.  He  found  himself  quite 
as  helpless  as  the  elder  had  been  to 
answer  his  question. 

As  they  parted  in  the  terminal  the 
elder  bore  testimony  once  again,  say- 
ing, "I  claim  to  know  there  is  a  God. 
You  ridiculed  that  testimony  and  said 
that  if  I  did  know  I  would  be  able  to 
tell  you  exactly  how  I  know. 

"My  friend,  spiritually  speaking,  I 
have  tasted  salt.  I  am  no  more  able  to 
convey  to  you  in  words  how  this  knowl- 
edge has  come  than  you  are  to  perform 
the  simple  exercise  of  telling  me  what 
salt  tastes  like.  But  I  say  to  you  again, 
there  is  a  God.  He  does  live.  And  just 
because  you  don't  know,  don't  try  to 
tell  me  that  I  don't  know,  for  I  do." 

Young  people,  do  not  apologize  or  be 
ashamed  because  you  cannot  frame  into 
words  that  which  you  know  in  your 
heart  to  be  true.  Do  not  repudiate  your 
testimony  merely  because  you  have  no 
marvelous   manifestations   to  discuss. 

Lehi  saw  in  his  dream  those  who 
"tasted  the  fruit,"  and  "were  ashamed, 
because  of  those  that  were  scoffing  at 
them;  and  they  fell  away  into  forbid- 
den paths  and  were  lost."  (1  Nephi 
8:28.) 

Learning  by  Other  Means 

We  sympathize  with  you  and  know 
how  difficult  it  is  to  hold  to  the  truth, 
particularly  when  professors  of  worldly 
knowledge — some  of  them  counterfeit 
Christians — debunk  and  scoff.  We  know 
from  personal  experience  that  you  may 
have  some  doubts.  You  may  wonder  at 
times,  "Can  I  ever  really  know  for  sure?" 
You  may  even  wonder,  "Does  anyone 
really  know  for  sure?" 

President  David  O.  McKay  once  told 


Third  Day 

of  his  search  for  a  testimony  as  a  youth. 
"I  realized  in  youth,"  he  said,  "that  the 
most  precious  thing  that  a  man  could 
obtain  in  this  life  was  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work.  I  hungered  for  it." 

He  indicated  that  he  had  somehow 
received  the  impression  that  the  testi- 
mony would  come  as  a  great  spiritual 
manifestation. 

"I  remember,"  he  said,  "riding  over 
the  hills  one  afternoon  thinking  of  these 
things  and  concluded  that  there  in  the 
silence  of  the  hills  was  the  best  place 
to  get  that  testimony. 

"I  stopped  my  horse  and  threw  the 
reins  over  his  head.  ...  I  knelt  down 
and  with  all  of  the  fervor  of  my  heart 
poured  out  my  soul  to  God  and  asked 
him  for  a  testimony  of  this  gospel.  I 
had  in  mind  that  there  would  be  some 
manifestation,  that  I  should  receive 
some  transformation  that  would  leave 
me  without  doubt. 

"I  arose,  mounted  my  horse,  and  as 
I  started  over  the  trail  I  remember 
rather  introspectively  searching  my- 
self, and  involuntarily  shaking  my 
head,  saying  to  myself,  'No,  sir,  there 
is  no  change;  I  am  just  the  same  boy 
I  was  before  I  knelt  down.' " 

Qualifications  of  Witnesses 

President  McKay  continues,  "The 
anticipated  manifestation  had  not 
come.  Nor  was  that  the  only  occasion. 
However,  it  did  come,  but  not  in  the 
way  that  I  had  anticipated.  Even  the 
manifestation  of  God's  power  and  the 
presence  of  his  angels  came,  but  when  it 
did  come,  it  was  simply  a  confirmation; 
it  was  not  the  testimony." 

In  answer  to  your  question,  "Can  I 
ever  really  know  for  sure?"  we  answer, 
just  as  certainly  as  you  fill  the  re- 
quirements, that  testimony  will  come. 
The  Lord  has  never  said,  nor  was  it 
ever  pretended,  that  this  testimony 
yields  itself  to  scientific  investigation, 
to  mere  curiosity,  or  to  academic  in- 
quiry. 

In  answer  to  your  question,  "Does 
anybody  really  know?"  Yes,  tens  of 
thousands  know.  The  brethren  know. 
Your  parents  know. 

I  have  respect  for  the  truth.  It  is 
wrong  to  fabricate,  to  invent,  to  mis- 
lead. 


ELDER  EIRAY  L. 

There  is  another  dimension  also. 
When  one  has  received  that  witness, 
and  is  called  to  testify,  for  him  to  dilute, 
to  minimize,  to  withhold  would  be  gross- 
ly wrong.  It  is  in  the  face  of  this  that  I 
feel  the  urgency  to  bear  witness.  And  I 
bear  my  solemn  witness  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ.  I  say  that  I  know  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
was  restored  to  Joseph  Smith,  a  prophet 

ELDER  ELRAY  L. 

Assistant  to  the  Council 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  have  been 
greatly  edified  by  the  proceedings  of 
this  great  conference,  and  I  am  thank- 
ful. 

We  live  in  a  wonderful  world  and  no 
doubt  in  the  most  wonderful  era.  There 
are  so  many  lovely  and  desirable  things 
to  do,  to  enjoy,  and  to  accomplish.  There 
are  so  many  people  who  help  to  make 
life  meaningful  and  purposeful  and 
worthwhile.  But,  at  the  same  time, 
this  is  a  day  in  which  there  is  much 
anxiety,  confusion,  mistrust,  and  fear. 
This  is  a  time  when,  as  prophesied, 
many  are  ".  .  .  walking  in  darkness  at 
noon-day."  (D&C  95:6.) 

The  Quest  for  a  Sound  Foundation 

In  attempting  to  understand  the  per- 
plexities of  these  days,  many  good  people 
seem  to  be  running  to  and  fro,  here 
and  there,  seeking  to  find  security  in 
order  that  they  may  have  peace  of 
mind. 

Some,  seemingly,  depend  upon  fleet- 
ing pleasures  to  satisfy  the  longings  of 
their  souls.  Often  these  attempt  to 
drown  the  realities  of  life  in  unre- 
strained living.  They  seem  to  be  among 
those  who  are  ".  .  .  lovers  of  pleasures 
more  than  lovers  of  God.  .  .  ."  (I  Tim. 
3:4.) 

As  a  result  they  find  their  course  is 
shallow  and  unproductive  of  content- 
ment and  happiness. 

The  questionable  value  of  mere  plea- 
sures is  well  described  by  the  poet  Robert 
Burns,  who  wrote  in  part: 

"But  pleasures  are  like  poppies  spread: 
You  seize  the  flow'r,  its  bloom  is  shed; 
Or  like  the  snow  falls  in  the  river, 


CHRISTIANSEN  129 

of  God,  that  David  O.  McKay  who  pre- 
sides over  this  Church  is  a  prophet  of 
God.  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  We  shall  now  be  glad  to  hear 
from  Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


CHRISTIANSEN 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

A  moment  white — then  melts  for  ever." 
("Tarn  o'  Shanter,"  1,  59.) 

Some  people  attempt  to  find  solace  in 
esoteric  intellectual  pursuits,  while  still 
others  seek  a  haven  of  security  in  un- 
tried ideologies  and  man-made  for- 
mulas. Rather  than  chart  the  course 
for  themselves,  they  seem  to  be  willing 
to  place  their  lives,  their  fortunes, 
their  all — even  their  posterity — in  the 
hands  of  "benevolent"  agencies  which 
formulate  and  prescribe  a  way  of  life 
for  them. 

This  misplaced  trust  is  contributing 
to  the  chaotic  conditions  of  our  day. 
Truly  it  may  be  said  that  these  last 
days  are  exhibiting  more  than  ever  the 
blatant  power  and  force  of  Satan. 

"O  that  cunning  plan  of  the  evil 
one,"  exclaimed  Jacob.  "O  the  vain- 
ness, and  the  frailties,  ...  of  menl 
When  they  are  learned  they  think  they 
are  wise,  and  they  hearken  not  unto  the 
counsel  of  God,  for  they  set  it  aside, 
supposing  they  know  of  themselves, 
wherefore,  their  wisdom  is  foolishness 
and  it  profiteth  them  not.  And  they 
shall  perish. 

The  Counsels  of  God 

"But  to  be  learned  is  good  if  they 
hearken  unto  the  counsels  of  God."  (2 
Nephi  9:28-29.) 

In  this  day  of  debauchery  and  crime 
when  a  man  or  woman  or  a  boy  or  a 
girl  can  sink  to  greater  depths  than  ever 
before,  we  can  be  grateful  that  even  in 
the  midst  of  these  opposing  forces,  it  is 
possible  through  following  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  each  of 
us  to  learn  and  to  progress  and  to  reach 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

the  greatest  heights  in  less  time  than 
ever  before. 

How  may  we  in  our  short  lifetime 
prepare  to  reach  the  greatest  heights? 
Is  it  by  placing  our  trust  in  the  wis- 
dom and  power  and  the  abilities  of  man? 
No!  For  "Thus  saith  the  Lord; 
Cursed  be  the  man  that  trusteth  in 
man,  and  maketh  flesh  his  arm,  and 
whose  heart  departeth  from  the  Lord." 
(Jer.  17:5.) 

And  from  the  Book  of  Mormon  we 
could  add,  "...  or  [who]  shall  hearken 
unto  the  precepts  of  men,  save  their 
precepts  shall  be  given  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost."  (2  Nephi  28:31.) 

Trust  in  God 

This  is  not  to  minimize  the  almost 
unbelievable  accomplishments  which 
man  has  made  in  conquering  his  en- 
vironment and  in  subduing  the  earth. 
But  to  conquer  and  subdue  the  earth  is 
futile  if  we  fail  to  conquer  and  subdue 
ourselves  and  to  place  our  trust  in  the 
Lord. 

In  one  of  our  hymns  we  sing,  "The 
fight  with  sin  is  real  .  .  ."  (Will  L. 
Thompson,  Hymns,  206),  and  it  really 
isl  It  began  in  our  pre-existent  life, 
and  ".  .  .  to  bring  about  his  eternal 
purposes  in  the  end  of  man  .  .  ."  we  are 
told  the  fight  with  sin  will  continue  in 
order  that  man  may  be  free  to  choose 
between  the  captivity  and  power  of  the 
devil  and  liberty  and  eternal  life 
through  Jesus  Christ  the  Lord.  (See 

In  that  pre-earth  life  Lucifer  offered 
to  "save"  mankind  and  to  bring  all 
2  Nephi  2:15,  27.) 

back.  But  he  would  have  done  it  by 
deceit  and  by  force,  thereby  destroy- 
ing the  agency  of  man.  He  demanded 
as  his  price  that  God  give  him  all  the 
honor  and  the  glory  that  belongs  to  our 
Heavenly  Father.  Jesus,  when  he 
heard  Lucifer's  selfish  plan,  offered 
himself  as  the  Savior  of  mankind  and 
in  so  doing  said:  "Father,  thy  will  be 
done,  and  the  glory  be  thine  forever." 
(Moses  4:2.) 

Captivity  for  Rebellion 

We  must  have  witnessed  that  tragic 
scene  when  Lucifer  with  a  third  of  the 
hosts  of  heaven  arose  in  hateful  rebel- 
lion against  God,  for  it  is  recorded  that 


Third  Day 

there  were  many  led  away  captive  by 
him,  ".  .  .  even  as  many  as  would  not 
hearken  unto  my  voice."  (Ibid.,  4:4.) 
That  one  third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven 
placed  their  trust  in  Lucifer  and  fol- 
lowed after  him.  What  a  tragic  eventl 
And  yet,  even  in  that  pre-existent 
state,  the  right  of  choice  was  theirs  and 
ours,  and  that  right  continues  with  us 
today.  We  then  chose  the  right.  We 
placed  our  trust  in  God. 

Now  what  of  today?  We  have 
been  told  by  our  living  prophet  that 
". . .  Never  before  . . .  were  there  so  many 
insidious  influences  at  work  among 
our  people  as  today —  .  .  .  never  before 
have  dangers  been  so  threatening  to  our 
youth.  .  .  .  some  think  the  standards  of 
morality  have  changed.  The  standard 
of  morals  of  a  Latter-day  Saint  .  .  . 
will  never  change." 

This  is  a  day  of  sifting,  when  the 
Lord  determines  "who's  who,"  when 
the  "goats"  will  separate  themselves 
from  the  "sheep";  actually  this  is  the 
day  when  we  must  determine  and  prove 
whether  we  are  Latter-day  Saints  or 
whether  we  are  "Latter-day  Ain'ts." 

Choose  Whom  Ye  Will  Trust 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  without 
excuse.  We  are  well  taught,  we  are  well 
directed.  We  have  both  ancient  and 
modern  scripture  to  guide  us.  We  have 
the  priesthood.  We  have  living  prophets, 
and  I  testify  to  you  that  President 
David  O.  McKay  is  just  that.  We 
have  the  Church  with  its  supporting 
organizations.  We  have  the  saving  and 
exalting  ordinances  which  are  admin- 
istered by  proper  authority  in  holy 
temples.  We  have  the  Holy  Ghost  to 
guide  us,  to  warn  us,  and  to  impress 
us.  But  still  we  must  learn  that  except 
through  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  ".  .  .  there 
is  none  other  name  under  heaven  given 
among  men,  whereby  we  must  be 
saved."   (Acts  4:12.) 

In  whom  then  shall  we  place  our 
trust?  Men  may  scheme  and  plan,  they 
may  devise  programs,  and  they  may 
legislate  changes,  but  contentment  and 
peace  will  come  only  when  we  trust 
in  God  and  admit  our  sins  and  forsake 
them  and  then  with  determination 
".  .  .  live  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


131 


forth  from  the  mouth  of  God."  (D&C 
84:44.) 

To  you  who  are  sorrowing,  to  you 
who  are  discouraged,  to  you  who  are  in 
doubt,  to  you  who  need  help — Jesus 
gave  the  answer  to  the  question,  where 
shall  I  place  my  trust?  as  he  closed  his 
sermon  to  the  multitude  and  voiced  his 
great  message  to  the  rest  of  the  down- 
trodden: 

"Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labour  and 
are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you 
rest. 

"Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of 
me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in  heart: 
and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls. 

"For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden 
is  light."  (Matt.  11:28-30.) 


Yes,  "Blessed  is  the  man  that  trust- 
eth  in  the  Lord,  and  whose  hope  the 
Lord  is."  (Jer.  17:7.)  May  we  all 
place  our  trust  in  the  Lord  and  heed 
such  counsel  as  we  have  been  given  in 
this  conference,  I  pray  humbly  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

The  congregation  and  Choir  will  now 
join  in  singing,  "Come,  O  Thou  King 
of  Kings,"  led  by  Elder  Jay  E.  Welch. 
After  the  singing  we  shall  hear  from 
Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  and  he  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Richard  L.  Evans. 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  if  varied 
experiences  enrich  the  soul,  then  I 
would  hope  for  every  one  of  you  that 
you  could  be  assigned  to  be  one  of  the 
last  speakers  in  a  general  conference 
of  the  Church.  It  reminds  me  of  a 
story  that  Brother  Adam  S.  Bennion  told 
once.  He  was  a  great  storyteller  as 
you  remember. 

He  said  that  there  was  a  man 
who  was  disturbed  by  the  howling  dog 
of  his  neighbor.  He  stood  it  as  long  as 
he  could,  and  then  at  3  am  in  the  morn- 
ing put  on  his  bathrobe  and  slippers 
and  walked  across  the  intervening 
lawn  to  his  neighbor's  home.  He 
pounded  on  the  door  until  he  finally 
roused  the  neighbor,  who  came  to  the 
door  sleepy-eyed,  and  he  said  to  him, 
"Say,  mister,  your  howling  dog  has  kept 
me  awake  all  night." 

Strangely  enough,  the  neighbor  never 
said  a  word.  He  just  closed  the  door 
and  went  back  to  bed.  But  the  next 
morning  at  precisely  the  same  hour  he 
went  across  the  same  lawn  in  the  other 
direction  and  pounded  on  his  neighbor's 
door  and  finally  got  him  up.  And  when 
he  came  to  the  door,  he  said,  "Say, 
mister,  I  haven't  got  a  dog." 

Well,  that's  the  way  I  feel  right 
now,  brothers  and  sisters,  I  haven't 
got  a  subject.  They  have  all  been  spo- 
ken on. 


But  realistically,  the  breadth  and 
the  depth  of  the  subjects  of  the  gospel 
is  so  great  that  I  suppose  every  speaker, 
succeeding  one  after  another,  could  well 
speak  on  the  same  subject. 

In  the  days  of  ancient  Israel,  "the 
feast,"  which  was  similar  to  our  present- 
day  "conference,"  was  a  time  of 
gathering,  a  time  of  harvest,  a  time  of 
rejoicing,  and,  what  is  more  partic- 
ularly significant,  "the  feast"  was 
designated  by  the  Lord  as  a  time  of 
remembrance.  I  cannot  help  feeling  that 
here  should  be  the  re-enactment  of  this 
ancient  admonition  of  the  Lord,  that 
we  should  remember  the  things  that 
we  have  heard  at  this  great  conference 
of  the  Church. 

That  we  have  met  under  the  peace- 
ful influence  of  President  McKay,  who 
is  nearby,  at  this  conference  brings  to 
all  of  us  a  comforting  reassurance. 

With  due  respect  to  Brother  Petersen 
in  the  excellent  treatment  of  the  subject 
of  revelation  I  would  like  to  offer  one 
or  two  thoughts  which  go  in  a  different 
direction,  treating  perhaps  another  aspect 
of  it. 

"All  That  God  Has  Revealed" 

Our  ninth  Article  of  Faith  states: 
"We  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed, 
all  that  He  does  now  reveal,  and  we 
believe  that  He  will  yet  reveal  many 


132 

Sunday,  October  4 

great  and  important  things  pertaining 
to  the  Kingdom  of  God." 

From  this  we  declare  that  the  sal- 
vation of  mankind  is  dependent  upon 
communication  from  God. 

In  this  age  of  space  exploration 
science  is  probing  deeper  and  deeper 
into  the  universe.  A  landing  upon  the 
moon  is  planned.  Contact  with  Venus, 
Mars,  and  other  planets  is  also  under 
consideration.  That  other  beings  will  be 
found  to  exist  "out  there"  in  the  depths 
of  space  is  a  matter  of  scientific  con- 
cern. 

Suppose  this  proved  to  be  true,  and 
contact  with  people  of  other  planets 
were  permitted  by  the  Lord;  it  would 
be  ironic  indeed  if  they  were  found  to 
have  the  same  lack  of  response  or  "no 
concern"  attitude  as  do  the  people  of 
the  planet  Earth,  generally,  toward 
the  visits  and  contacts  made  by  persons 
from  outer  space  who  have  already 
come  to  the  earth. 

Since  1830  we  have  proclaimed  to 
the  world  that  visitors  on  divine  mis- 
sions have  been  sent  to  this  planet  to 
reveal  the  purpose  of  this  life  and  the 
needed  preparation  for  life  after  mor- 
tal death.  Concerning  other  occupied 
planets,  God  made  this  known  unto 
Moses,  as  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Jos- 
eph Smith: 

"And  worlds  without  number  have 
I  created;  and  I  also  created  them  for 
mine  own  purpose;  and  by  the  Son  I 
created  them,  which  is  mine  Only  Be- 
gotten." (Moses  1:33.)  As  to  his  pur- 
pose, he  said  to  Moses:  "For  behold, 
this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring 
to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  man."   (Ibid.,  1:39.) 

Men  dream  of  finding  somewhere 
"out  there"  super  beings  whose  intel- 
ligence is  superior  to  that  found  upon 
the  earth.  But  this  concept  could  have 
a  two-way  application  in  that  visitors 
from  outer  space  with  superior  intel- 
ligence and  understanding  could  come 
to  the  planet  Earth  with  vital  truths 
of  salvation. 

Redeemer  of  Mankind  Revealed 

Speakers  at  this  conference  have 
testified  of  the  appearance  of  God  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  his  Beloved  Son, 
who  is  the  Lord  and  Redeemer  of  man- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

kind,  unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Contacts  have  also  been  made  by  other 
messengers  sent  to  the  earth  from  the 
presence  of  God.  We  are  now  firmly  in 
possession  of  the  knowledge  of  the  way 
back  from  mortality  into  immortality, 
there  to  dwell  in  the  presence  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  who  in  his  holy  pur- 
poses desires  his  children  back  with 
him. 

Revelation  may  be  regarded  as  in- 
credible to  many.  Its  reality  may  also 
be  taken  for  granted  by  our  own  mem- 
bers, producing  a  danger  of  forsaking 
the  very  will  of  God. 

I  testify,  as  others  have  done  here 
today,  that  God  revealed  his  mind  and 
will  unto  Joseph  Smith,  the  first  proph- 
et in  our  modern  times,  and  that  since 
his  day  there  have  been  other  prophets 
who  have  presided  over  this  work  and 
who  have  been  directed  by  the  Lord. 
I  testify  that  President  David  O.  McKay 
is  the  chosen  leader  of  God's  work 
here  upon  the  earth  today,  unto  whom 
he  has  given  revelation  for  the  guid- 
ance and  direction  of  the  work  which 
our  Heavenly  Father  desires  carried 
out  upon  the  earth  to  accomplish  his 
purposes. 

We  are  frequently  asked  the  ques- 
tions by  those  who  are  not  of  our  faith, 
"When  was  the  last  time  that  your 
prophet  received  a  revelation?"  and 
"How  is  it  made  known  to  your  peo- 
ple?" In  answer  to  these  questions  may 
I  cite  two  most  recent  evidences  of  di- 
vine instruction  and  revelation  from 
God  which  are  for  the  guidance  of  the 
Church. 

The  Love  of  Jesus  Christ 

The  first  of  these  concerns  the 
message  of  President  McKay  at  the 
beginning  of  this  conference,  the  sub- 
stance of  which  he  also  gave  to  the 
stake  presidencies  of  the  Oakland 
Temple  District  not  long  ago.  Upon 
both  of  these  occasions  he  told  of  the 
great  love  of  Jesus  Christ  and  charged 
the  assembly  to  reflect  this  love  in 
their  acts  and  deeds  toward  their  fel- 
low men.  He  also  told  of  the  increase 
of  the  powers  of  darkness  in  accord- 
ance with  the  spread  of  the  restored 
gospel. 

He  proclaimed  a  warning  unto  those 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


133 


of  the  Church  who  might  compromise 
their  way  of  life  and  lose  the  power 
and  understanding  of  the  gospel  that 
"Atheism  is  the  greatest  weapon  Sa- 
tan has  to  use,  and  its  evil  influence  is 
bringing  degradation  to  millions 
throughout  the  world."  And  then, 
what  is  singularly  important  as  a  di- 
vine inspiration  from  a  prophet  of  God, 
he  said,  "Only  the  declaration  of  the 
divinity  of  Jesus  Christ  to  all  the 
people  of  the  world  can  counteract  this 
evil." 

Parents  to  Teach  the  Gospel 

The  second  concerns  the  remarks  of 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  last  night  in 
the  general  priesthood  meeting  unfold- 
ing the  outline  of  the  family  home 
evening  program,  concerning  which 
you  will  hear  a  great  deal  in  the  weeks 
ahead.  He  premised  his  remarks  by  re- 
ferring to  the  statements  made  by  the 
prophets  of  God  in  this  dispensation, 
emphasizing  the  importance  of  parents 
teaching  their  children  the  gospel. 
These  statements  made  by  the  President 
of  our  Church  are  actually  revelations 
from  God  concerning  the  importance 
of  the  family  unit  in  the  plan  of  the 
gospel. 

Our  high  resolve  should  be  to  bring 
ourselves  in  harmony  with  this  instruc- 
tion, thereby  obeying  the  mind  and  will 
of  God  as  it  is  revealed  unto  his 
servants.  In  contemplation  of  this  di- 
vine information  and  these  instruc- 
tions, I  would  say  unto  those  who  have 
asked  the  question,  "When  was  a  reve- 
lation last  given?"  that  they  might 
profitably  take  note  of  the  nature  of 
and  the  manner  by  which  these  reve- 
lations referred  to  have  been  given. 

From  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  I 
quote  the  following:  "Wherefore,  I  the 
Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which 
should  come  upon  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph 
Smith,  Jun.,  and  spake  unto  him  from 
heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments;" 
(D&C  1:17.) 

Knowledge  Which  Exalts  Man 

The  commandments  given  by  reve- 
lations from  God  provide  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  gospel,  and  obedi- 
ence thereto  will  exalt  man  in  the 


presence  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  They 
contain  "pure  knowledge"  which  man 
cannot  find  out  in  and  of  himself, 
thereby  necessitating  their  divine  com- 
munication. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  once  de- 
scribed the  manner  in  which  such  direct 
inspiration  comes,  for  said  he:  "Yea, 
thus  saith  the  still  small  voice,  which 
whispereth  through  and  pierceth  all 
things,  and  often  times  it  maketh  my 
bones  to  quake  while  it  maketh  mani- 
fest "  (D&C  85:6.) 

Speaking  to  those  who  would  deny 
the  revelations  of  God,  I  would  con- 
clude with  the  remarks  of  the  Prophet 
Moroni,  the  same  who  made  contact 
with  Joseph  Smith  as  a  visitor  sent 
from  the  presence  of  God,  as  recorded 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon: 

"And  again  I  speak  unto  you  who 
deny  the  revelations  of  God,  and  say 
that  they  are  done  away,  that  there 
are  no  revelations,  nor  prophecies,  nor 
gifts,  nor  healing,  nor  speaking  with 
tongues,  and  the  interpretation  of 
tongues; 

"Behold  I  say  unto  you,  he  that  de- 
nieth  these  things  knoweth  not  the  gos- 
pel of  Christ;  yea,  he  has  not  read  the 
scriptures;  if  so,  he  does  not  under- 
stand them. 

"For  do  we  not  read  that  God  is  the 
same  yesterday,  today,  and  forever, 
and  in  him  there  is  no  variableness 
neither  shadow  of  changing?"  (Mor- 
mon 9:7-9.) 

About  six  weeks  before  the  death 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  he  had 
been  harassed  by  many  concerning  the 
revelations  which  God  had  given  unto 
him,  he  bore  publicly,  at  that  very  im- 
portant meeting  held  in  Nauvoo  on 
May  12,  1844,  perhaps  one  of  his  last 
testimonies  concerning  the  revelations 
of  God,  wherein  he  said: 

"Make  Your  Calling  and 
Election  Sure" 

"Oh!  I  beseech  you  go  forward  .  .  . 
and  make  your  calling  and  your  elec- 
tion sure  .... 

"When  did  I  ever  teach  anything 
wrong  from  this  stand?  When  was  I 
ever  confounded?  I  want  to  triumph 
in  Israel  before  I  depart  hence  and  am 
no  more  seen.  I  never  told  you  I  was 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday.  October  4 

perfect;  but  there  is  no  error  in  the 
revelations  which  I  have  taught." 
(Andrew  Jenson,  The  Historical  Record, 
Vol.  7,  p.  548.  Italics  added.) 

The  Revelations  of  God 

The  challenge  to  the  members  of  the 
Church  in  these  closing  minutes  of 
this  great  conference  is  to  adhere  to 
the  revelations  from  God  that  we  may 
make  our  election  sure.  The  challenge 
to  those  not  of  the  Church  who  are 
watching  and  listening  is  to  be  con- 
cerned, to  investigate,  and  to  find  out 
for  themselves  the  truth  of  revelations 
from  God,  as  they  have  been  given  by 
divine  messengers  who  have  visited  the 
earth,  that  they  may  come  to  know 


Third  Day 

the  ways  of  the  Lord  and  then  coura- 
geously accept  and  live  by  them. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  to  be  added 
to  those  already  borne  that  this  is  the 
work  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  I  am 
grateful,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  to 
be  associated  with  you  and  pray  that 
the  work  may  go  forward  as  the  Lord 
has  ordained  that  it  should,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Elder  Alvin  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  We  shall 
now  be  glad  to  hear  from  Elder  Richard 
L.  Evans. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Somewhere  I  have  read  or  heard  of 
this  remark  by  a  woman  who  was  ob- 
serving a  clean  and  manly  and  admi- 
rable young  man.  "I  would  give  twenty 
years  of  my  life,"  she  said,  "to  have  a 
son  like  that."  The  mother  of  the  boy, 
standing  nearby,  overheard  the  comment 
and  replied:  "That  is  what  I  have  given 
— twenty  years  of  my  life." 

My  mind  keeps  going  back  to  a  sen- 
tence from  the  April  conference  address 
of  President  McKay,  in  which  he  said: 
"No  other  success  can  compensate  for 
failure  in  the  home." 

Full  Time  Parent 

There  is  no  easy  way  to  rear  a  family. 
There  is  no  way,  really,  to  be  part-time 
parents.  There  are  other  necessary  in- 
terests and  activities  and  obligations,  but 
the  responsibility  of  being  a  parent  is 
ever-present  and  lifelong.  (So  is  the 
responsibility  of  being  a  son  or  a  daugh- 
ter.) And  there  is  nothing  more  reward- 
ing than  the  sacred  assignment  of 
parenthood,  faithfully  followed  through. 

With  the  home  and  family  in  mind, 
as  emphasized  so  effectively  last  evening 
in  the  messages  from  President  McKay 
and  Presidents  Brown  and  Tanner  and 
by  Brother  Lee  and  Bishop  Simpson,  the 
counsel  comes  to  us  to  teach  our  chil- 
dren, to  draw  near  to  them  in  love,  in 


patience,  in  respect,  and  in  righteous 
example. 

The  counsel  comes  to  us  to  re-empha- 
size the  home — the  first  and  most  ef- 
fective place  for  teaching  the  values 
and  virtues  and  the  lessons  of  life.  This 
counsel  has  been  given  by  a  long  succes- 
sion of  prophets  and  Presidents  of  the 
Church  and  by  our  Father  in  heaven 
over  all  the  ages. 

"Keep  the  Way  of  the  Lord" 

Of  Abraham  it  was  said:  "For  I  know 
him,  that  he  will  command  his  children 
and  his  household  after  him,  and  they 
shall  keep  the  way  of  the  Lord,  .  .  ." 
(Gen.  18:19.) 

And  through  Moses:  "...  I  give  unto 
you  a  commandment,  to  teach  these 
things  freely  unto  your  children,  .  .  ." 
(Moses  6:58.) 

From  King  Benjamin  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon:  "And  ye  will  not  suffer  your 
children  that  they  go  hungry,  or  naked; 
neither  will  ye  suffer  that  they  trans- 
gress the  laws  of  God,  and  fight  and 
quarrel  one  with  another,  and  serve  the 
devil,  who  is  the  master  of  sin,  .  .  . 

"But  ye  will  teach  them  to  walk  in 
the  ways  of  truth  and  soberness;  ye  will 
teach  them  to  love  one  another,  and  to 
serve  one  another."  (Mosiah  4:14-15.) 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


135 


"Walk  Uprightly  Before  the  Lord" 

And  from  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, oft-quoted:  "And  they  shall  also 
teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk 
uprightly  before  the  Lord."  (D&C  68: 
28.) 

"...  I  have  commanded  you  to  bring 
up  your  children  in  light  and  truth." 
(Ibid.,  93:40.) 

". . .  set  in  order  your  own  house, . . ." 
(Ibid.,  93:43.) 

".  .  .  see  that  [your  family]  are  more 
diligent  and  concerned  at  home,  and 
pray  always,  or  they  shall  be  removed 
out  of  their  place."  (Ibid.,  93:50.) 

"We  have  been  so  eager  to  give  our 
children  what  we  didn't  have,"  said  one 
observer,  "that  we  have  neglected  to 
give  them  what  they  should  have." 

"Ought  we  not  to  begin,"  said  another 
spiritual  teacher,  "by  offering  our  chil- 
dren those  things  that  we  did  have?  In 
our  childhood  we  received  maximum 
religious  instruction.  In  our  childhood 
we  beheld  examples  of  persevering  fru- 
gality, hard  work,  and  the  spirit  of 
pioneering  on  every  frontier  of  life. 
Things  were  not  just  handed  to  us." 
(Rabbi  Joseph  H.  Lockstein.) 

"It  is  in  youth,"  said  Benjamin  Frank- 
lin, "that  we  plant  our  chief  habits  and 
prejudices. ...  in  youth  the  private  and 
public  character  is  determined.  .  .  ." 

The  idea  that  we  can  leave  to  children 
entirely  to  choose  as  to  the  essentials  of 
life  is  an  altogether  unsafe  idea. 

What  agency  or  institution  would  be 
qualified  to  supersede  the  home?  Where 
else  would  we  go  for  the  first  seeds  of 
faith?  Where  else  is  example  so  close, 
so  constant? 

Foundations  of  a  Happy  Home 

There  never  was  a  tonic  that  would 
cure  more  social  ailments  than  a 
healthy,  happy  home.  There  never  was 
a  greater  source  of  social  stability  than 
an  affectionate  and  understanding 
family.  There  never  was  a  better  way 
of  helping  children  to  happiness  than 
the  close  confidence  of  wise  and  loving 
and  responsible  parents. 

Of  course  there  are  some  who  haven't 
homes.  But  if  all  the  homes  we  have 
were  doing  what  they  could  or  ought 
to  do,  there  would  be  less  need  for  many 
agencies  and  institutions  that  are  bravely 


attempting  to  do  what  the  home  should 
do.  And  before  we  create  more  and  more 
complex  social  machinery,  we  ought  to 
put  the  emphasis  back  where  it  belongs, 
on  the  oldest  social  institution  in  exist- 
ence— the  family,  the  home.  And  if  more 
and  ever  more  emphasis  is  placed  out- 
side the  home,  we  shall  have  less  and 
less  influence  with  our  families  and 
more  and  more  public  problems. 

Among  the  most  important  privileges 
of  parents  is  the  making  of  a  happy 
home,  a  place  of  understanding,  of  love 
and  loyalty,  not  marred  by  quarreling 
and  contention,  a  place  wherever  they 
are  and  however  old  they  are,  they  will 
remember  with  warm  and  wonderful 
memories. 

The  question  comes  at  times  as  to 
whether  or  not  mothers  should  work. 
Certainly  circumstances  would  vary  the 
answer.  This  comment  from  Dr.  Elton 
Trueblood  is  of  interest: 

"We  know  that  the  Communist 
philosophy  of  Russia  has  a  clear  answer 
to  this  question:  that  women  should 
be  employed  exactly  as  men  are,  the 
state  caring  for  the  children  during 
the  mother's  hours  of  employment  out- 
side the  home.  [But]  because  our  phi- 
losophy includes  other  values,  especially 
those  of  the  home  as  a  creative  center, 
we  cannot  subscribe  to  this . .  .  doctrine. 
.  .  .  Many  women  engage  in  work 
outside  the  home.  But  often  they  do 
it  at  the  wrong  time  in  their  lives. 
There  is  a  period  when  a  woman  who 
makes  a  home  what  it  ought  to  be  neces- 
sarily finds  it  occupying  all  the  time, 
energy  and  imagination  she  posses- 
ses. .  .  ." 

How  can  we  expect  other  people  to 
teach  and  to  build  character  in  our 
children  if  we  don't? 

How  can  we  expect  others  to  take 
their  time  and  to  inconvenienve  them- 
selves for  our  children  if  we  don't? 

Sometimes  some  parents  mistakenly 
feel  that  they  can  relax  a  little  as  to 
conduct  and  conformity  or  take  per- 
haps a  so  called  liberal  view  of  basic 
and  fundamental  things — thinking  that 
a  little  laxness  or  indulgence  won't 
matter — or  they  may  fail  to  teach  or  to 
attend  Church,  or  may  voice  critical 
views.  Some  parents  sometimes  seem  to 
feel  that  they  can  ease  up  a  little  on 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

the  fundamentals  without  affecting  their 
family  or  their  family's  future.  But  if 
a  parent  goes  a  little  off  course,  the 
children  are  likely  to  exceed  the  parent's 
example. 

Standards  to  Honor; 
Examples  to  Emulate 

"He  who  imitates  an  evil  example," 
said  Francisco  Guicciardini,  "generally 
goes  beyond  it;  he  who  imitates  a  good 
example  generally  falls  short  of  it." 

There  must  be  standards  and  exam- 
ples that  are  sure  and  safe  to  follow.  To 
lead  our  children  away  from  faithful- 
ness, away  from  conformity,  away  from 
basic  and  bedrock  belief  is  too  much  re- 
sponsibility to  take. 

Sometimes,  later  in  life,  these  same 
parents  turn  and  come  closer  to  the 
Church,  only  to  find  to  their  sorrow 
that  their  children,  having  been  en- 
couraged in  a  different  direction,  don't 
turn  back  so  easily — if  ever. 

"Whatever  you  would  have  your  chil- 
dren become,  strive  to  exhibit  in  your 
own  lives  and  conversation,"  said  Lydia 
Sigourney. 

"We  can  do  more  good  by  being  good, 
than  in  any  other  way."  (Author  un- 
known.) 

Mahatma  Ghandi  said:  "My  life  is  my 
message."  Every  parent  could  say  it 
also,  and  every  parent's  life  will  be  his 
message  to  the  latest  generation. 

One  of  the  first  essentials  is  for  par- 
ents to  be  united  in  their  objectives,  of 
one  faith  and  one  purpose.  "Do  you  ex- 
pect, forsooth,"  asked  an  ancient 
Roman  poet,  do  you  really  expect  "that 
a  mother  will  hand  down  to  her  chil- 
dren principles  which  differ  from  her 
own?"  (Juvenal,  Satires.)  Any  young 
man  who  thinks  that  a  girl  who  doesn't 
believe  as  he  believes  will  teach  his 
children  as  he  would  teach  them  simply 
isn't  facing  facts.  In  marrying  we 
choose  the  parents  of  our  chile  Iren,  and 
we  have  an  obligation  to  ourselves  and 
to  our  children  to  marry  those  with 
whom  there  can  be  a  oneness  of  pur- 
pose and  conviction. 

"Joy  in  the  Kingdom  of  My  Father" 

We  often  read  and  quote  from  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants:  "And  if  it  so 
be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days 


Third  Day 

.  .  .  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto 
me,  how  great  shall  be  your  joy  with 
him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father!" 
(D&C  18:15.) 

Now  if  it  is  a  thing  of  such  exceeding 
joy  to  bring  one  soul  to  our  Father,  how 
great  a  joy  it  must  be  to  keep  and  bring 
back  to  him  those  whom  he  has  given 
us.  It  is  wonderful  and  essential  to  send 
missionaries  to  far  places,  but  how  could 
we  justify  not  keeping  our  own? 

If  it  is  important  to  be  our  brother's 
keeper,  how  very  important  it  must  be 
to  be  our  children's  keeper,  the  keeper 
of  our  families,  those  whom  God  has 
given  us.  When  does  a  parent's  responsi- 
bility cease?  Legally  we  can  define  it, 
but  is  it  over — ever? 

Home  Duty  and  Blessings 

The  family  circle  is  everlasting,  and 
so  are  its  responsibilities  and  blessings. 

And  so  it  is  that  the  Presidents  of  the 
Church  from  far  back  have  emphasized 
the  home  and  have  urged  a  weekly  home 
evening.  We  have  come  to  the  time 
when  it  is  well  and  strongly  felt  that 
there  must  be  a  re-emphasis  on  the 
home,  and  for  this  coming  year  there 
will  be  provided  a  gospel  course  of  in- 
struction for  some  of  these  home  eve- 
nings for  parents  to  teach  their  children. 

It  is  an  act  of  greatness  and  heroism  to 
hold  a  family  together,  to  set  before 
them  an  example,  to  teach  them  in  ways 
of  truth,  to  live  a  life  of  consistency,  to 
provide  necessities,  to  nurse  and  serve  in 
sickness,  to  wash,  to  cook,  to  clean,  to 
make,  to  mend,  to  counsel,  to  love,  to 
understand,  to  pray,  to  be  patient,  and 
to  do  the  thousand  other  unnamed 
things  that  it  takes  to  rear  a  family,  to 
make  a  house  a  home — and  to  do  it 
every  day,  sometimes  without  seeming 
gratitude — and  to  lead  a  family  right- 
eously unto  eternal  life.  And  since  it  is 
our  Father's  purpose  to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  his  chil- 
dren, what  could  better  be  our  purpose 
as  parents? 

And  what  if  it  does  take  twenty  years 
— or  forty — or  forever?  What  can  life 
better  be  used  for? 

There  keep  coming  back  to  me  the 
words  of  President  McKay:  "No  other 
success  can  compensate  for  failure  in  the 
home." 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


137 


Keeping  a  home,  a  family,  going  and 
together,  is  heroic.  Thank  God  for  faith- 
ful parents. 

To  those  who  have  somewhat  with- 
drawn themselves,  I  would  plead  with 
you  to  turn  again  to  know  the  peace  and 
blessings  of  the  faith  of  your  fathers. 
To  those  who  have  never  known,  I 
would  plead  with  you  to  open  your 
hearts  and  your  minds  to  the  search  for 
truth. 

"Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings" 

In  the  words  of  the  song  the  choir  has 
sung  I  would  plead,  with  you,  that  the 
King  of  kings  may  come  and  be  mindful 
of  us.  In  the  words  of  another  song,  so 
dear  to  all  of  us,  I  would  remember,  with 
you,  our  President,  in  thanking  God  for 
a  prophet,  to  guide  us  in  these  latter  days. 

And,  with  you,  I  would  bear  witness 
of  our  literal  relationship  to  God  our 
Father,  who  made  us  in  his  own  image, 


and  to  the  divinity  of  his  Beloved  Son, 
our  Savior,  and  to  the  gospel  plan  and 
purpose  for  bringing  us  back  into  their 
presence,  for  the  wonderful  association 
and  limitless  opportunities  of  everlasting 
life. 

And,  with  you,  I  pray  and  plead  that 
we  may  so  live  and  teach  our  children 
that  we  may  have  them  with  us,  not  one 
missing — always  and  forever — and  I  do 
it  in  the  name  of  our  beloved  divine  Re- 
deemer, our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

We  should  like  to  hear  from  Elder 
Harold  B.  Lee,  with  a  testimony  and 
blessing  at  the  close  of  this  conference. 
He  spoke  to  us  last  night  but  has  not 
spoken  at  a  general  session,  and  without 
previous  notice  we  will  ask  him  to  speak 
to  us  now,  please. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  suppose  it  is  unnecessary  to  say  that 
this  is  unscheduled,  unprogrammed,  un- 
rehearsed, and,  as  you  will  soon  observe, 
unprepared. 

My  mind  has  been  filled  with  the 
realization  that  in  1964  and  the  year  just 
preceding,  we  have  been  receiving  as 
pertinent  and  important  divine  direction 
as  has  ever  been  given  to  the  Church  in 
any  similar  period  in  its  history  through 
the  prophet  and  leader  who  now  pre- 
sides as  the  President  of  this  Church. 
You  may  recognize  it  in  some  of  the 
developments  we  know  as  the  correla- 
tion program.  You  have  seen  it  being 
unraveled  bit  by  bit,  and  you  will  see 
and  hear  more  of  it. 

One  of  the  first  assignments  that  was 
given  to  President  Elmer  G.  Peterson 
of  the  Utah  State  University  who  served 
in  the  church  welfare  program,  he  being 
a  member  of  our  agricultural  committee 
with  Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe  as  the  chair- 
man, was  some  agricultural  assignment. 
After  he  had  made  his  report  of  this 
assignment,  he  made  this  signifcant 
statement:  "Brethren,  I  have  discovered 
again  something  that  I  have  always 
known.    The  members  of  this  Church 


are  like  soldiers  in  the  ranks,  and  all 
they  need  is  for  someone  to  give  them 
marching  orders." 

Four  Fields  of  Priesthood  Activity 

Now  that  is  exactly  what  is  being 
done.  You  may  not  be  aware  of  the  fact 
that  there  are  approximately  five  hun- 
dred specially  called,  specially  trained 
specialists  in  four  great  priesthood  fields 
and  in  the  auxiliary  organizations  who 
go  out  by  regular  assignments  to  stake 
conferences  and  to  regional  meetings 
throughout  the  entire  Church  to  give 
specific  and  definite  directions  as  to  the 
carrying  out  of  the  great  program  which 
is  intended  to  concentrate  the  forces  of 
the  Lord  to  meet  the  challenging  opposi- 
tion of  the  onslaughts  of  evil  that  are 
so  apparent  among  us. 

A  week  ago  yesterday  I  had  a  glorious 
hour  with  President  McKay,  as  keen  and 
alert  and  as  assured  as  to  this  matter  of 
renewing  our  determination  to  have  a 
weekly  family  home  night  as  I  have  ever 
seen  President  McKay.  And  he  said, 
"We  have  talked  about  this  thing  for 
fifty  years.  Now  it  is  time  we  were  doing 
something  about  it." 


138 

Sunday,  October  4 

Gospel  Teaching  in  the  Home 

Now  that  something  is  to  be  done  in 
four  different  ways.  In  the  first  place 
there  have  been  prepared  a  full  year's 
lessons  for  parents  to  guide  them  in  the 
teaching  of  the  gospel  in  the  home. 
These  lesson  manuals  will  be  brought 
into  the  home  by  the  home  teachers, 
who  will  then  as  their  part  of  the  pro- 
gram give  helpful  suggestions  and  direc- 
tions to  homes  which  may  need  that 
direction. 

Priesthood  quorums  for  the  next  year 
will  study,  every  weekly  class  period,  the 
place  of  the  father  in  the  teaching  of 
the  gospel  to  his  own  children  in  the 
home.  And  once  a  month  the  mothers 
will  have  a  similar  lesson. 

Correlation  of  Lessons 

As  I  have  read  and  studied  these 
lessons,  I  have  become  aware  that  tha 
more  nearly  we  have  a  weekly  home 
gospel  discussion  lesson  with  appropriate 
activity,  the  more  nearly  we  will  be  able 
to  co-ordinate  with  the  Relief  Society 
and  Melchizedek  Priesthood  lessons. 
There  will  be  optional  lessons  suggested 
for  optional  home  nights  on  other  things 
that  some  may  care  to  have  to  augment 
the  gospel  lesson  instruction. 

As  I  have  thought  of  home  night,  I 
have  thought  of  my  own  family,  and  I 
suppose  all  of  you  have  as  you  have  been 
listening.  When  our  eldest  daughter  was 
to  be  married  to  a  fine  Latter-day  Saint 
boy,  the  two  mothers  were  in  the  corner 
of  the  room  talking  to  each  other.  The 
mother  of  our  eldest  daughter  said, 
"You  know,  from  the  time  my  little 
girl  was  born  I  have  been  praying  that 
somewhere  a  mother  would  be  prepar- 
ing a  son  worthy  to  marry  my  daughter." 
And  this  other  mother  smiled  and  said, 
"Isn't  that  strange.  This  is  my  only  son, 
who  is  being  married  to  your  daughter, 
and  ever  since  he  was  born,  I  too  have 
been  praying  that  somewhere  there 
would  be  a  mother  preparing  a  daughter 
worthy  to  meet  and  to  marry  my  son." 

It  is  that  kind  of  home  attention — 
fathers  and  mothers  preparing  daughters 
and  sons  who  will  make  us  and  our 
homes  stronger  today. 

Priesthood  Correlation 

We  said  last  night  to  priesthood  lead- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

ers  that  we  propose  to  send  out  for  a 
stake  introductory  program  at  one  of 
your  stake  priesthood  meetings  shortly 
after  this  conference  a  program  to  be 
carried  out,  and  then  a  film  strip  of 
probably  seventy  frames  or  more  to  give 
specific  instructions  in  the  ward  where 
every  family  may  have  the  chance  to  be 
called  together  and  to  be  given  instruc- 
tion as  to  the  way  to  carry  out  the 
family  home  night.  Now  these  will  be 
sent  out  to  you  and  will  be  your  instruc- 
tion to  start  the  indoctrination  period 
at  once  so  that  by  January  1  we  may  be 
in  full  gear  so  far  as  the  weekly  home 
night. 

Know  the  Standard  Works 
of  the  Church 

One  of  the  hopes  we  have  is  that  in 
this  program  every  boy  and  girl  of 
deacon  age  and  older  will  have  the  four 
standard  works  in  their  private  posses- 
sion, and  that  on  Easter,  on  birthdays, 
on  Christmas,  on  New  Year's,  you  make 
this  a  part  of  your  family  giving  to  your 
children,  so  they  may  have  the  joy  of 
personally  owning  the  Bible,  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  from 
these  precious  pages  begin  to  be  in- 
structed in  the  ways  of  the  Lord. 

As  I  thought  of  what  we  are  doing 
now  and  its  possible  impact,  the  words 
of  the  Prophet  Micah  came,  "But  in  the 
last  days  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  the 
mountain  of  the  house  of  the  Lord  shall 
be  established  in  the  top  of  the  moun- 
tains, and  it  shall  be  exalted  above  the 
hills;  and  people  shall  flow  unto  it. 

"And  many  nations  shall  come,  and 
say,  Come,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the 
mountain  of  the  Lord,  and  to  the  house 
of  the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach 
us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his 
paths:  for  the  law  shall  go  forth  of  Zion, 
and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  Jeru- 
salem." (Mic.  4:1-2.) 

I  say  to  you  Latter-day  Saint  mothers 
and  fathers  that  if  you  will  rise  to  the 
responsibility  of  teaching  your  children 
in  the  home — priesthood  quorums  pre- 
paring the  fathers,  the  Relief  Society 
the  mothers — the  day  will  soon  be 
dawning  when  the  whole  world  will 
come  to  our  doors  and  will  say,  "Show 
us  your  way  that  we  may  walk  in  your 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


139 


"Covenant  One  With  Another" 

And  so  in  final  summation  as  I  have 
been  thinking  of  what  has  been  said, 
and  in  carrying  out  what  our  noble 
leader  wishes,  my  prayer  is  that  his 
heart  will  have  been  thrilled,  inasmuch 
as  he,  perhaps  more  than  any  other 
living  individual,  past  or  present,  has 
given  the  urge  to  this  matter  of  teaching 
and  living  the  gospel  in  the  home.  And 
perhaps  this  is  the  scripture  we  should 
all  remember  as  an  admonition  from  the 
Lord  that  strikes  to  the  heart  of  what  we 
are  talking  about,  "Search  diligently, 
pray  always,  and  be  believing,  and  all 
things  shall  work  together  for  your  good, 
if  ye  walk  uprightly  and  remember  the 
covenant  wherewith  ye  have  covenanted 
one  with  another."  (D&C  90:24.) 

I  bear  you  my  solemn  testimony  that  I 
know  with  all  my  soul  that  God  today, 
as  well  as  in  times  past,  is  revealing  his 
mind  and  will  to  his  people,  and  if  we 
will  search  diligently,  pray  always,  and 
be  believing,  all  things  shall  work  to 
the  good  of  him  who  remembers  the 
covenants  with  which  he  has  covenanted 
one  with  the  other.  And  so  I  bear  testi- 
mony and  leave  you  my  blessing  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown 

We  wish  again  to  express  appreciation 
to  the  Tabernacle  Choir  as  we  have  so 
often  done  in  the  past.  May  God  bless 
them,  their  members,  their  officers,  their 
directors.  They  are  doing  the  most  won- 
derful work  that  has  ever  been  done  in 
the  Church  as  a  missionary  effort. 

We  express  also  appreciation  to  others 
who  have  furnished  music  during  the 
sessions  of  this  Conference  and  their 
contribution  has  been  acknowledged 
previously. 

President  McKay  has  asked  me  to 
express  appreciation  to  our  beloved 
associates,  the  General  Authorities,  who 
have  delivered  such  timely  and  inspira- 


tional messages.  He  wishes  also  that  we 
remember  and  express  appreciation  to 
the  Press  representatives,  cooperation  of 
the  City  officials,  traffic  officers,  fire 
department,  Red  Cross,  and  we  also 
remember  the  ushers  who  have  per- 
formed so  efficiently  during  the  sessions 
of  this  Conference. 

We  want  again  to  express  our  ap- 
preciation to  the  radio  and  television 
stations  throughout  the  nation  and  in 
other  countries. 

We  wish  to  announce  that  tonight 
the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  will 
convene  in  this  building  at  seven  o'clock. 
All  Sunday  School  workers  will  wish  to 
be  in  attendance.  The  public  also  is  in- 
vited to  attend. 

The  President  wants  us  to  remind 
again  that  the  streets  are  crowded,  the 
highways  are  crowded.  Please  be  careful 
as  you  drive. 

And  now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we 
come  to  the  close  of  a  glorious  Confer- 
ence, memorable  in  many  respects.  We 
all,  of  course,  have  missed  the  presence 
of  our  President,  but  I  am  sure  we  have 
all  felt  the  presence  of  his  spirit.  May 
God  bless  him  and  may  he  know  what 
a  wonderful  influence  he  has  had  on 
the  sessions  of  this  great  Conference. 

May  God  bless  you  and  all  of  us  that 
though  we  may  not  remember  much  of 
what  has  been  said,  I  pray  that  God  will 
help  us  to  remember  what  we  have  felt 
while  we  have  been  in  these  sessions  and 
that  the  resolutions  we  have  secretly 
made  may  be  carried  out  both  with  re- 
spect to  the  care  of  our  own  children, 
building  of  the  right  kind  of  homes,  the 
establishment  of  peace  in  the  earth.  God 
bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
we  may  have  a  memorable  occasion  as 
we  return  to  our  homes  and  recall  the 
experiences  of  this  Conference. 

The  Choir  will  now  favor  us  with, 
"Glorious  Everlasting,"  and  the  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  Elder  Milton 
L.  Weilenmann,  formerly  president  of 
the  Alaskan-Canadian  Mission. 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at  7:35 
a.m.  Sunday,  October  4,  1964.  The  pro- 
gram was  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  furnished 
the  music  for  this  service.  Richard  L. 
Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  The  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air  is 
presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that  repre- 
sentatives of  many  faiths  may  address  a 
nation-wide  congregation.  Today's  serv- 
ice, presented  by  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  comes  to  you 
from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square,  through  the  facilities  of  Radio 
Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Our  speaker  is  Elder  Thomas  S.  Monson, 


business,  civic  and  church  leader,  and 
member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  of  the  Church.  Music  is  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  directed  by  Richard 
P.  Condie. 

From  the  Tabernacle  Choir  we  hear 
Campbell-Tipton's  sincere  and  grateful 
song:  "I  Will  Give  Thanks  Unto  the 
Lord;  with  my  whole  heart  will  I  praise 
thee,  O  God." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "I  Will  Give 
Thanks  Unto  the  Lord"— Campbell 
Tipton.) 

Announcer:  We  hear  now  on  this 
Church  of  the  Air  service  Elder  Thomas 
S.  Monson,  member  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  sometimes  identified 
as  the  Mormon  Church.  Today's  talk  is 
titled:  "America  Needs  You." 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


The  opportunity  to  speak  to  you  today 
brings  with  it  a  sense  of  responsibility 
which  humbles  me.  I  pray  for  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Lord. 

Recently  I  was  a  passenger  on  a  flight 
which  took  me  from  the  Pacific  across 
the  continent  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean.  At 
many  points  along  the  way,  serenely 
seen  through  white,  billowy  clouds  were 
the  fertile  patchwork  fields  and  majestic 
mountains  of  this  great  land.  The  words 
of  Katherine  Lee  Bates,  author  of 
"America  the  Beautiful,"  coursed  through 
my  mind  and  found  lodgement  within 
my  soul. 

"Oh  beautiful  for  spacious  skies, 

For  amber  waves  of  grain, 
For  purple  mountain  majesties 

Above  the  fruited  plain! 
America!  America! 

God  shed  his  grace  on  thee 
And  crown  thy  good  with  brotherhood 

From  sea  to  shining  sea." 

The  Lord  Himself  gave  a  divine 
promise  to  the  ancient  inhabitants  of 
this  favored  country.  He  said: 

"Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and 
whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall 


be  free  from  bondage,  and  from  cap- 
tivity, and  from  all  other  nations  under 
heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God 
of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ,  .  .  ." 
(Book  of  Mormon,  Ether  2:12) 

Are  we  today  serving  the  God  of  the 
land,  even  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ?  Do 
our  lives  conform  with  His  teachings? 
Are  we  entitled  to  His  divine  blessings? 

Headlines  from  America's  leading 
newspapers  depicting  the  events  of  the 
past  year  pass  silently  in  review  that 
you  and  I  may  judge. 

"President  Kennedy  Assassinated." 

"Alleged  Assassin  Murdered  While  In 
Custody  of  the  Law." 

"Serious  Crime  Registers  10%  Increase 
In  Past  Year." 

"Violence  Rocks  South." 

"Racial  Strife  Hits  East." 

Murder,  rape,  arson,  burglary,  assault, 
narcotics  violations  are  all  on  the  in- 
crease in  the  America  of  today.  These 
are  the  headlines  of  our  newspapers. 

One  cannot  help  but  compare  the 
situation  of  today  with  conditions  at  the 
time  of  Belshazzar  the  King  of  the  Chal- 
deans. 

The  prophet  Daniel  rebuked  Bel- 
shazzar: "And  thou  .  .  .  ,  O  Belshazzar, 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


141 


hast  not  humbled  thine  heart,  .  .  .  But 
hast  lifted  up  thyself  against  the  Lord 
of  heaven;  and  they  have  brought  the 
vessels  of  his  house  before  thee,  and 
thou,  and  thy  lords,  thy  wives,  and  thy 
concubines,  have  drunk  wine  in  them; 
and  thou  hast  praised  the  gods  of  silver, 
and  gold,  of  brass,  iron,  wood,  and  stone, 
which  see  not,  nor  hear,  nor  know:  and 
the  God  in  whose  hand  thy  breath  is, 
and  whose  are  all  thy  ways,  hast  thou 
not  glorified:"  (Daniel  5:22-23) 

He  then  interpreted  the  writing  on  the 
wall.  ".  .  .  God  hath  numbered  thy 
kingdom,  and  finished  it.  .  .  .  Thou  art 
weighed  in  the  balances,  and  art  found 
wanting."  (Daniel  5:26-27) 

Too  many  Americans  have  been 
screaming  ever  louder  for  more  and  more 
of  the  things  we  cannot  take  with  us 
and  paying  less  and  less  attention  to 
the  real  sources  of  the  very  happiness 
we  seek.  We  have  been  measuring  our 
fellowmen  more  by  balance  sheets  and 
less  by  moral  standards.  We  have  de- 
veloped frightening  physical  power  and 
fallen  into  pathetic  spiritual  weakness. 
We  have  become  so  concerned  over  the 
growth  of  our  earning  capacity  that  we 
have  neglected  the  growth  of  our  charac- 
ter. 

As  we  view  the  disillusionment  that 
engulfs  countless  thousands  today,  we 
are  learning  the  hard  way  what  an 
ancient  prophet  wrote  out  for  us  3,000 
years  ago.  "He  that  loveth  silver  shall 
not  be  satisfied  with  silver;  nor  he  that 
loveth  abundance  with  increase:  .  .  ." 
(Ecclesiastes  5:10) 

The  revered  Abraham  Lincoln  accur- 
ately described  our  plight.  "We  have 
been  the  recipients  of  the  choicest  boun- 
ties of  heaven;  we  have  been  preserved 
these  many  years  in  peace  and  pros- 
perity. We  have  grown  in  numbers, 
wealth,  and  power  as  no  other  nation 
has  ever  grown;  but  we  have  forgotten 
God.  We  have  forgotten  the  gracious 
hand  which  preserved  us  in  peace  and 
multiplied  and  enriched  and  strength- 
ened us.  We  have  vainly  imagined, 
in  the  deceitfulness  of  our  hearts  that 
all  these  blessings  were  produced  by 
some  superior  wisdom  and  virtue  of 
our  own.  Intoxicated  with  unbroken 
succession,  we  have  become  too  self 
sufficient  to  feel  the  necessity  of  pre- 
serving and  redeeming  grace,  too  proud 


to  pray  to  God  that  made  us." 

Can  we  extricate  ourselves  from  this 
frightful  condition?  Is  there  a  way  out? 
If  so,  what  is  the  way?  We  can  solve 
this  perplexing  dilemma  by  adopting 
the  counsel  given  by  Jesus  to  the  in- 
quiring lawyer  who  asked,  "Master, 
which  is  the  great  commandment  in  the 
law?  Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy 
heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with 
all  thy  mind.  This  is  the  first  and  great 
commandment.  And  the  second  is  like 
unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor 
as  thyself."  (Matthew  22:36-39) 

First,  then  I  would  suggest  that  each 
American  love  the  Lord,  our  God,  and 
with  our  families  serve  Him  in  right- 
eousness. 

The  road  back  to  God  is  not  nearly 
so  steep  nor  is  it  so  difficult  as  some 
would  have  us  believe.  The  gentle  in- 
vitation of  Jesus  yet  beckons,  ".  .  .  Come 
unto  me."  Paul  advised  that,  ".  .  .  he 
that  cometh  to  God  must  believe  that 
he  is,  and  that  he  is  a  rewarder  of 
them  that  diligently  seek  him."  (He- 
brews 11:6) 

The  channel  by  which  we  seek  Him 
and  find  Him  is  personal  and  family 
prayer.  The  recognition  of  a  power 
higher  than  man  himself  does  not  in 
any  sense  debase  him,  rather  it  exalts 
him.  Divine  favor  will  attend  those  who 
humbly  seek  it.  If  we  will  but  realize 
that  we  have  been  created  in  the  image 
of  God,  we  will  not  find  Him  difficult 
to  approach.  God  did  create  ".  . .  man  in 
his  own  image,  in  the  image  of  God 
created  he  him;  male  and  female  created 
he  them."  (Genesis  1:27)  You  cannot 
sincerely  hold  this  conviction  without 
experiencing  a  profound  new  sense  of 
strength. 

By  seeking  God  in  personal  and 
family  prayer  we  and  our  loved  ones 
will  acquire  what  the  great  English 
statesman,  William  H.  Gladstone,  des- 
cribed as  the  world's  greatest  need — "A 
living  faith  in  a  personal  God." 

Who  can  evaluate  the  real  worth  of 
such  a  blessing?  This  faith  will  light  the 
pathway  for  any  honest  seeker  of  divine 
truth.  Wives  will  draw  closer  to  their 
husbands  and  husbands  will  the  more 
appreciate  their  wives  and  children 
will  be  happy  children  as  children  are 
meant  to  be.  Children  in  the  homes 


142 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


blessed  by  prayer  will  not  find  them- 
selves in  that  dreaded  never  never  land. 
Never  the  object  of  concern,  never  the 
recipient  of  proper  parental  guidance. 
Our  children  will  be  taught  integrity 
which  is  primarily  a  matter  of  early 
training.  To  teach  the  young  to  love  the 
truth  above  personal  convenience  is  the 
basis  of  it.  They  will  be  taught  true 
courage  which  becomes  a  living  and 
attractive  virtue  when  it  is  regarded 
not  as  a  willingness  to  die  manfully  but 
as  the  determination  to  live  decently. 
They  will  be  taught  honesty  by  habit 
and  as  a  matter  of  course.  Our  children 
will  be  taught  this  way  of  living  by 
parents  who  will  not  ask  the  child, 
"What  will  people  think,"  but  rather, 
"What  will  you  think  of  yourself."  Our 
children  will  grow  physically  from 
childhood  to  adulthood,  and  mentally 
from  ignorance  to  knowledge,  emotion- 
ally from  insecurity  to  stability  and 
spirituality  to  an  abiding  faith  in  God. 
Such  is  the  power  gained  from  loving 
the  Lord,  our  God,  and  serving  Him  in 
righteousness. 

Second,  I  would  suggest  that  each 
American  love  his  neighbor  as  himself. 
Before  we  can  really  love  our  neighbor 
we  must  get  the  proper  perspective  of 
him. 

One  man  said,  "I  looked  at  my  brother 
with  the  microscope  of  criticism  and  I 
said,  'How  coarse  my  brother  is.'  I 
looked  at  my  brother  with  the  telescope 
of  scorn  and  I  said,  'How  small  my 
brother  is.'  Then  I  looked  into  the  mirror 
of  truth  and  I  said,  'How  like  me  my 
brother  is.' " 

Paul  counseled  us,  "Bear  ye  one  an- 
other's burdens,  and  so  fulfil  the  law 
of  Christ."  (Galatians  6:2)  No  burden 
is  heavier  to  bear  than  is  sin.  When  we 
show  our  brother,  our  neighbor,  the  way 
back  to  God  through  applying  the  divine 
principle  of  repentance,  we  help  him  to 
build  a  new  and  better  life. 

If  we  are  not  careful,  our  thoughts  and 
plans  to  aid  others  in  making  this  a 
better  world  in  which  to  live  will  re- 
main just  that — thoughts  and  plans.  As 
humans  we  cannot  really  see  very  far 
ahead  and  need,  therefore,  to  take  each 
step  with  all  the  wisdom  we  can  muster. 
While  sensing  what  lies  dimly  ahead, 
we  must  do  confidently  what  lies  clearly 
at  hand.  Decision  is  of  little  account 


unless  it  is  followed  by  action.  If  we 
procrastinate  our  lofty  ambitions  too 
long,  we  well  might  suffer  the  lament 
spoken  by  Jacob  Marley's  ghost  in 
Dicken's  immortal  "A  Christmas  Carol." 
Speaking  of  Ebenezer  Scrooge  he  said, 
"Not  to  know  that  any  Christian  Spirit 
working  kindly  in  its  little  sphere,  what- 
ever it  may  be  will  find  its  life  too  short 
for  its  vast  means  of  usefulness.  Not  to 
know  that  no  space  of  regret  can  make 
amends  for  one  life's  opportunities  mis- 
used. Such  was  I,  oh  such  was  I." 

One  of  the  finest  examples  I  know  of 
helping  one's  neighbors  is  that  of  a 
prominent  businessman  who  at  the 
height  of  his  success,  generously  gave 
his  prosperous  business  to  his  faithful 
employees  and  determined  to  devote  the 
balance  of  his  life  in  charitable  service. 
He  withdrew  from  the  world  of  gold  and 
silver  and  each  day  can  now  be  found  at 
a  large  welfare  distribution  center  doing 
his  part  to  relieve  the  suffering  and  need 
of  human  souls  and  make  America  a 
better  place  in  which  to  live.  He  is  ful- 
filling the  responsibility  to  ".  .  .  succor 
the  weak,  lift  up  the  hands  which  hang 
down,  and  strengthen  the  feeble  knees." 
(D&C  81:5)  He  humbly  declares:  "This 
is  the  happiest  period  of  my  life." 

The  rich  satisfactions  which  come 
from  loving  our  neighbor  as  ourselves 
are  not  ushered  in  at  any  age  to  the 
sound  of  drums  and  trumpets  but  rather 
the  satisfaction  grows  upon  us  year  by 
year,  little  by  little,  until  at  last  we 
realize  that  we  have  it. 

One  of  the  most  famous  enlistment 
posters  of  World  War  II  was  one  de- 
picting Uncle  Sam  pointing  his  long 
finger  and  directing  his  piercing  eyes 
at  the  viewer.  The  words  read,  "America 
Needs  You."  America  truly  does  need 
you  and  me  to  lead  out  in  a  mighty 
crusade  of  righteousness.  We  can  help 
when  we  love  the  Lord,  our  God,  and 
with  our  families  serve  him,  and  when 
we  love  our  neighbors  as  ourselves. 

The  frightening  trend  toward  crime, 
lawlessness,  and  violence  will  then  be 
arrested.  God  will  continue  to  shed  His 
grace  on  thee,  America,  and  crown  thy 
good  with  brotherhood  from  sea  to 
shining  sea.  I  pray  for  this  needed  bles- 
sing in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  God 
of  this  choice  land  of  liberty,  Amen. 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


143 


(The  Choir  sang:  "America,  The 
Beautiful"— Ward- Asper. ) 

Announcer:  You  have  been  attending 
CBS  Radio's  Church  of  the  Air.  Today's 
service  came  to  you  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  through 
the  facilities  of  Radio  Station  KSL  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Our  speaker  was 
Elder  Thomas  S.  Monson,  business,  civic 
and  church  leader,  and  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Music  was  by  the  Salt  Lake  Mormon 


Tabernacle  Choir,  directed  by  Richard 
P.  Condie. 

A  copy  of  today's  address,  "America 
Needs  You,"  may  be  obtained  without 
cost  by  writing  to  the  station  to  which 
you  are  listening. 

Time  and  facilities  for  the  Church  of 
the  Air  are  provided  without  charge  by 
CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations, 
and  in  the  same  spirit,  the  participating 
speakers  and  choir  give  their  services. 

Church  of  the  Air  is  a  pre-recorded 
Public  Affairs  presentation  of  CBS  News. 


SALT  LAKE  MORMON 
TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  was  presented  from  8:35 
to  9:00  a.m.,  Sunday,  October  4,  1964, 
through  the  courtesy  of  Columbia  Broad- 
casting System's  network,  throughout 
the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada,  and 
through  other  facilities  to  several  points 
overseas.  The  broadcast  was  as  follows: 

(The  organ  played,  "As  The  Dew 
From  Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal 
the  Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the 
hymn,  "Gently  Raise  The  Sacred  Strain," 
singing  the  words  to  the  end  of  the 
second  line,  and  humming  to  end  of 
verse  for  announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its  af- 
filiated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organ- 
ist, and  the  Spoken  Word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sings  Harriet 
Beecher  Stowe's  words  of  the  glorious 
assurance  of  everlasting  life  with  our 
loved  ones,  with  the  moving  music  by 
Harry  Row  Shelley:  ".  .  .  So  shall  it  be 
at  last  in  that  bright  morning,  When 
the  soul  waketh  and  life's  shadows  flee. 
Oh,  in  that  hour,  fairer  than  daylight's 
dawning,  Shall  rise  the  glorious  thought, 


I  am  with  Thee.  Still,  still  with 
Thee  .  .  ." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Still,  Still  With 
Thee"— Shelley.) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper  at  the  Taber- 
nacle organ  today  turns  to  a  "Toccata 
from  the  Gothique  Suite"  by  Leon 
Boellmann. 

(Organ  Selection:  "Toccata  (from 
Gothique  Suite)" — Boellmann.) 

Announcer:  From  the  opera  "Orpheus" 
the  Choir  sings  an  earnest,  pleading 
song:  "O  Saviour,  Hear  Me,  I  implore 
Thee,  in  Thee  alone  can  peace  be  found. 
Thou  canst  sustain  and  Thou  restore 
me,  whatever  the  cares  that  hover 
round."  "O  Saviour,  Hear  Me  I  implore 
Thee." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "O  Saviour,  Hear 
Me"— Gluck-Protheroe. ) 

The  Spoken  Word:  We  turn  a  mo- 
ment to  what  may  be  an  unpopular 
principle:  the  principle  of  repentance — 
unpopular  perhaps,  because  it  requires 
admitting  mistakes.  Repentance  is  one 
of  the  foremost  principles  that  God  has 
given,  and  the  fact  that  He  gave  it  is 
evidence  that  He  knew  we  would  need 
it,  and  that  He  will  accept  it— when  it 
is  sincere.  He  will  not  mock  us  by  re- 
quiring repentance  without  incentive  or 
assurance.  Sometimes  young  people  will 
say  (or  assume) :  "I  have  made  a  mistake," 
"I  have  brought  sorrow  to  myself  and  my 
parents  and,  having  done  so,  the  damage 
is  done,  and  there  is  no  point  in  repent- 
ing." Let's  remove  this  fallacy  first  and 


144 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


finally:  Having  made  a  mistake  is  no 
reason  for  making  more  mistakes.  There 
is  purpose  in  repenting,  and  if  there 
were  not,  no  mortal  man  would  ever 
make  much  of  his  life,  because  every- 
one has  made  mistakes.  And  if  we 
couldn't  correct  our  errors  with  some 
assurance,  few  there  are  who  would  ever 
likely  turn  around  and  go  the  right  way. 
But  since  sincere  repentance  is  effective, 
there  is  never  any  better  time  than  the 
earliest  time  to  turn  to  it — not  waiting 
to  make  more  mistakes.  Indeed,  de- 
liberate delay  may  cast  some  doubt  on 
sincerity.  Delaying  too  long  could  be  a 
bit  shaky  as  to  timing.  Who  knows  how 
long  he  has  to  put  his  life  in  order? 
Repentance  is  part  of  the  process  of 
progress,  of  learning,  of  maturing,  of 
recognizing  law,  of  recognizing  results; 
it  is  a  process  of  facing  facts.  Every 
correcting  of  a  mistake  is  a  kind  of  re- 
pentance; every  sincere  apology  is  a 
kind  of  repentance;  every  improvement 
is  a  kind  of  repentance,  every  conquer- 
ing of  an  unhealthful  habit.  Matthew 
Cowley  likened  repentance  to  a  tape 
recording:  ".  .  .  the  only  thing  that  scares 
me,"  he  said,  is  "if  they  have  .  .  .  them 
over  on  the  other  side.  Maybe  our  hell's 
going  to  be  when  we  get  over  there, 
somebody  is  going  to  turn  on  a  television 
set  and  we  are  going  to  see  ourselves  .  .  . 
Maybe  he  will  turn  on  a  tape  recording 
and  we  will  hear  ourselves  speaking. 
Wouldn't  that  be  terrible?"  And  then 
he  remembered  that  the  talk  on  tape  can 
be  erased:  "That's  what  I  like  about  it," 
he  said,  "the  erasing.  I  believe  when  we 
repent  there  is  some  erasing  going  on 
up  there  so  that  when  we  get  there  we 
will  be  judged  as  we  are,  for  what  we 
are,  and  maybe  not  for  what  we  have 
been."1  Thank  God  for  the  great  and 
saving  principle  of  sincere  repentance. 


1Matthew  Cowley,  from  Matthew 
Cowley  Speaks. 

(Choir:  — without  announcement — 
"God  of  Our  Fathers"— Warren.) 


Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir  has 
sung  these  stirring  words  of  Daniel  C. 
Roberts,  to  the  music  of  George  William 
Warren:  "God  of  our  fathers,  .  .  .  Thy 
true  religion  in  our  hearts  increase;  Thy 
bounteous  goodness  nourish  us  in  peace. 
The  love  divine  hath  led  us  in  the  past. 
In  this  free  land  by  thee  our  lot  is  cast. 
Be  thou  our  ruler,  guardian,  guide  and 
stay,  Thy  word  our  law,  thy  paths  our 
chosen  way." 

Announcer:  In  a  setting  by  Lewis  D. 
Edwards,  the  Tabernacle  Choir  recalls 
the  witness  of  these  words — the  witness 
of  prophets  and  inspired  men  of  past  and 
present — the  witness  that  we  would 
leave  with  all  the  world:  "I  Know  That 
My  Redeemer  Lives;  ...  He  lives,  .  .  . 
who  once  was  dead.  .  .  He  lives  to  bless 
me  with  his  love.  He  lives  to  plead  for 
me  above.  He  lives  my  hungry  soul  to 
feed.  He  lives  to  bless  in  time  of  need." 
"I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "I  Know  That  My 
Redeemer  Lives" — Edwards.) 

Announcer:  Again  we  leave  you  with- 
in the  shadows  of  the  everlasting  hills. 
May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — and 
always. 

This  concludes  the  eighteen  hundred 
and  thirty-third  presentation,  and  con- 
tinues the  36th  year  of  this  traditional 
broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by 
CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations, 
originating  with  Radio  Station  KSL  in 
Salt  Lake  City. 

Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir.  Frank  Asper  was  at  the 
organ.  The  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 

Joseph  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


Index 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph,  Clerk  of  the  Conference  1,  144 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present  1,  2 

Authorities  and  Officers  Presented  and  Sustained   20,  21,  22,  23 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft    56 

Flattery,  56;  False  Educational  Ideas,  57;  Immorality,  59;  Avoid  Pitfalls 
of  Immorality,  59. 

Brockhank,  Elder  Bernard  P   1 1 

The  Church  at  the  World's  Fair,  11;  God  Inspired  Teachings  of  Ancient 
Prophets,  11;  Heavenly  Messengers  to  Ancient  and  Modern  Prophets,  12; 
Comments  on  World's  Fair  Visitors,  12;  Statistics  of  Fair  Communica- 
tions,^; Hunger  for  Teachings  of  Christ,  13;  Seeking  Evidence  of  Divine 
Power  and  Purpose,  13;  Needed:  Teachers  by  Example,  13. 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B  3,  4,  6,  9,  II,  13,  16,  19,  20,  42,48,  52,  56,  60, 

78,  79,  87,  91,  93,  95,  99,  101,  120,  124,  126,  129,  131,  134,  137,  139. 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B   99 

Prepare  to  Receive  the  Holy  Spirit,  99;  The  Ten  Commandments,  99; 
Resolve  to  Honor  Them,  100;  The  Beatitudes,  100;  Let  the  Inspired  Word 
of  God  Fix  Your  Daily  Attitude,  100. 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B  101 

Most  Profound  and  Hopeful  Philosophy  for  the  World,  102;  Mormonism 
Defined,  102;  Apostasy  and  Restoration  Predicted,  102;  The  Chief 
Cornerstone,  103;  History  the  Witness,  103;  Unnecessary  Rites  and  Cere- 
monies, 103;  Dilemma  of  Authority  Derived  from  Men,  104;  Apostasy 
Admitted,  104;  Restoration  Essential,  104;  "Dawning  of  a  Brighter  Day," 
104;  The  Everlasting  Gospel  Restored,  105;  The  Chinch,  the  Divine 
Solution  of  a  Vital  Problem,  105;  Christ  is  the  Head  of  the  Church,  106. 

Brown,  Bishop  Victor  L   73 

"One  Builds  Palaces, . .  ."  73;  "If  He  is  Willing  to  Work  Hard  Enough," 
74;  Examples  of  Diligence  and  Faithfulness,  74 

Burton,  Elder  Theodore  M   32 

Deliverance  of  Captives,  32;  True  Scope  of  His  Ministry,  33;  Eternal 
Principles  of  the  Gospel,  33;  Priesthood,  Key  to  Exaltation,  34;  Eternal 
and  Universal  Nature  of  Ministry  of  Jesus  Christ,  34;  Gospel  Preached 
in  Anticipation  of  His  Coming,  34;  Savior's  Redeeming  Power  Universal- 
ly Available,  35;  The  Atonement,  35;  The  Gospel  and  Ordinances  for  the 
World  of  Spirits,  35;  Seek  After  and  Identify  Ancestors,  35. 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L  129 

The  Quest  for  a  Sound  Foundation,  129;  The  Counsels  of  God,  129;  Trust 
in  God,  130;  Captivity  for  Rebellion,  130;  Choose  Whom  Ye  Will 
Trust,  130. 

Church  of  the  Air  140 


146  INDEX 

Dunn,  Elder  Paul   14 

A  Chain  of  Events  Shatters  Rest,  14;  Gloom  Dispelled,  14;  Brightness 
Restored;  "You  Are  the  Best  Daddy,"  14;  Count  Your  Blessings,  14; 
Value  of  Objective,  15;  Youth  Need  Religion,  15;  Three  Great  Needs,  15. 

Dyer,  Elder  Alvin  R  _  131 

"All  That  God  Has  Revealed,"  131;  Redeemer  of  Mankind  Revealed,  132; 
The  Love  of  Jesus  Christ,  132;  Parents  to  Teach  the  Gospel,  133;  Knowl- 
edge Which  Exalts  Man,  133;  "Make  Calling  and  Election  Sure," 
133;  "The  Revelations  of  God,"  134. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  134 

Full  Time  Parent,  134;  "Keep  the  Way  of  the  Lord"  134;  "Walk  Up- 
rightly Before  the  Lord,"  135;  Foundations  of  a  Happy  Home,  135; 
Standards  to  Honor;  Examples  to  Emulate,  136;  "Joy  in  the  Kingdom  of 
My  Father,"  136;  Home  Duty  and  Blessings,  136;  "Come,  O  Thou  King 
of  Kings,"  137; 

First  Day 

Morning  Meeting    3 

Afternoon  Meeting    20 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    79 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  Sustained  20,  21,  22,  23 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D  113 

Choose  the  "Eternal  Way"  now,  114;  Missionary  Motivations  Com- 
mended, 114;  Commendations  and  Confidence  for  Youth,  114;  Enemies 
of  Youth,  115;  "Turn  Right,  Go  Straight,"  115;  "Thou  Art  You,"  115. 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B  _  116 

University  Splendor  and  Youth,  1 16;  Abundance  of  Knowledge,  1 16;  Life 
is  More  than  Secular  Learning,  116;  "Get  Understanding,"  116;  Corner- 
stones of  Secular  Knowledge,  116;  Gratitude,  a  Divine  Principle,  117; 
Virtue,  117;  Faith,  118. 

Hunter,  Elder  Howard  W  106 

Saul  Born  a  Roman  Citizen,  106;  Gamaliel's  Pupil,  107;  Persecuted 
the  Christians,  107;  On  the  Damascus  Road,  107;  The  Climax,  108; 
Paul's  Purpose  and  Life  Changed,  108;  Paul  Tells  of  his  Conversion,  109; 
Others  Like  Him,  109;  Need  Paul's  Experience  of  Conversion,  109. 

Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B   52 

American  Citizenship,  52;  The  Constitution  an  Inspired  Document,  53; 
Government  of  Laws,  53;  One  Nation  Under  God,  54;  "A  Land  Choice 
Above  All  Others,"  55;  Powers  of  Government  from  Consent  of  Governed, 
55;  An  American's  Creed,  55. 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   24 

A  Parable,  24;  Man  is  Eternal;  Marriage  and  Family  Can  Be,  25;  An 
Ancient  Example,  27;  Paul's  Testimony,  27;  Modern  Revelation,  27; 
Civil  Authority — Divine  Authority,  28;  Fulfillment  the  Blessing  for 
Obedience,  28;  Eternities  are  Jeopardized  by  Non-compliance,  29. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   80 

Theme  of  Fifty  Years,  80;  "Home  the  Basis  of  the  Righteous  Life,"  80; 


INDEX 


147 


Correlation  to  Strengthen  the  Home,  80;  Priesthood  Totally  Employed, 
80;  Auxiliary  Organizations  also,  80;  Knowledge  of  Gospel  to  be  En- 
hanced, 80;  Correlation,  81;  Organization  and  Functioning,  81;  Restate- 
ment of  Fundamentals,  81;  "Watching  Over  the  Church,"  82;  Missionary 
Function,  to  the  Seventy,  82;  Youth  Missionary  Assignment,  82;  Gene- 
alogical Assignment,  82;  Welfare  Assignment,  82;  Correlation  of  Cur- 
ricula, 83;  Parents  and  the  Home,  83;  The  Divine  Charge  to  Parents,  83; 
"Home  Evening,"  Statement  of  1915,  83;  Assignment  to  Sunday  Schools, 
84;  Assignment  to  Primary  Association,  84;  Counsel  of  the  Prophets  on 
Teaching  Children,  84;  Lessons  for  Teaching  in  the  Home,  84;  Auxiliary 
Supporting  publications  Monthly,  85;  Melchizedek  Priesthood  Lessons, 
85;  Relief  Society  Lessons  for  Mothers,  86;  Home  Evening  Manual, 
85,  The  Program's  Introduction,  86;  The  Priesthood  to  Point  the  Way, 
86;  "No  Fallen  Lighthouse!"  86,  To  Guarantee  Success,  86;  Four  Stan- 
dard Works  for  Everyone,  87;  Unity,  the  Way,  87. 


Four  Fields  of  Priesthood  Activity,  137;  Gospel  Teaching  in  the  Home, 
138;  Correlation  of  Lessons,  138;  Priesthood  Correlation,  138;  Know  the 
Standard  Works  of  the  Church,  138;  "Covenant  One  with  another,"  139. 

Longden,  Elder  John  124 

The  Prince  of  Peace,  124;  The  Gospel— Proclamation  of  Peace,  125; 
The  Author  of  Peace,  126. 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   36 

We  Believe  in  Christ;  His  Divine  Sonship,  36;  Sure  Foundation  of 
Christian  Faith,  36;  The  Testimony  of  Paul,  36;  He  Is  the  Son  of  God,  37; 
Christ  and  His  Prophets,  37;  The  Spirit  of  Prophecy,  38;  By  the  Holy 
Ghost,  38. 

McKay,  President  David  O  _   4 

Opening  Address  (read  by  Elder  Robert  R.  McKay,  his  son),  4;  Blessings 
of  the  Decade,  4;  Eternal  Vigilance  and  Righteous  Effort  the  Price  of 
Peace,  5;  Peace  When  .  .  .  ,  5;  "With  Healing  in  His  Wings,"  5;  The 
Mission  of  The  Church  to  Establish  Peace,  5;  Blessings  of  Peace  for  the 
Righteous  .  .  .  ,  5. 

McKay,  President  David  0   91 

Address  to  General  Priesthood  Meeting  (Read  by  Elder  David  Lawrence 
McKay,  his  son),  91;  Charge  to  the  Priesthood,  91;  Gratitude  for  Parents, 
92;  Testimony  is  Borne  in  Home,  92;  Exemplify  Truth  in  Our  Homes, 
92;  Home  is  Transformed  by  Priesthood  Honored,  92  The  Divine  Broth- 
hood,  93. 

Monson,  Elder  Thomas  S   17 

Yearning  for  Truth,  17;  Truth  Defined,  17;  "If  any  Lack  Wisdom,  Let 
Him  Ask  of  God,"  17;  The  True  Church,  18;  the  Channel  of  Truth 
is  Open,  18. 

Monson,  Elder  Thomas  S  140 

"Church  of  the  Air"  Speaker,  140. 

Pace,  Grant — Deacon   87 

The  influence  of  my  home  and  parents  in  my  life. 


Jesus  Is  the  Christ,  127;  Essential  to  Knowledge  of  Spiritual  Truth,  127; 


Lee,  Elder  Harold  B. 


137 


Packer,  Elder  Boyd  K. 


126 


148  INDEX 

Limitations  of  Words,  128;  Learning  by  Other  Means,  128;  Qualifications 
of  Witnesses,  128. 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E  120 

The  Bible,  the  Word  of  God,  121;  John's  Order  Follows  Precedent  of 
Moses,  121;  Scriptures  After  Moses,  121;  Divine  Guidance  Through  Con- 
tinuous Revelation,  122;  New  Scripture  Evidence  of  True  Church,  122; 
New  Volumes  of  Scripture,  122;  Baptism  is  Essential  to  Salvation,  123; 
The  Lord  Lives,  123;  Modern  Revelation  Beckons  You,  123;  The  Almighty 
Speaks  Again  to  Man,  124. 

Peterson,  Scott,  Priest   89 

How  Gospel  Teaching  in  my  home  has  benefitted  me,  89. 

Richards,  Elder  Franklin  D   75 

The  Prophet  Leads  Us,  75;  Order  and  Diligence,  76;  First  Things,  76; 
Diligence,  77;  Survey  Large  Fields;  Cultivate  Small,  77. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    66 

"He  That  Cometh  to  God  .  .  .  ,"  66;  Comandments  and  Promised 
Blessings,  66;  Action  Without  Questions,  66;  Examples,  67;  Command- 
ments and  a  Way  to  Keep  Them,  67;  Repentance  and  Baptism,  67;  The 
Word  of  Wisdom  67;  Companionship  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  68;  Hidden 
Treasures  of  Knowledge,  68. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   48 

The  Concept  of  God  Taught  by  The  Church,  48;  The  Prophet  Speaks 
of  God,  49;  Jesus  Speaks  of  God,  His  Father,  49;  Knowledge  of  God 
Through  Joseph  Smith,  49;  For  Want  of  Knowledge  of  God  the  World 
is  Dying,  50;  As  of  Old,  50;  The  Transforming  Power  of  Knowledge  of 
God,  51;  God's  Revelations  of  Himself,  51;  "I  Personally  Know  That 
There  is  a  God,"  51;  "By  the  Witness  of  the  Holy  Spirit,"  52. 

Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  143 

Second  Day 

Morning  Meeting   42 

Afternoon  Meeting    60 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W  110 

Conflict  With  God,  110;  Leading  Rebel,  110;  Elements  of  the  Conflict, 
110;  Repentance,  the  Saving  Principle,  111;  Repentance  is  Good,  112; 
"Prepentance,"  112;  Discipline  for  the  Will,  113;  Declare  Peace  with 
God,  113. 

Simpson,  Bishop  Robert  L   93 

What  Gives  "Spiritual  Dimension,"  93;  Sincere  Spirit  of  Testimony,  93; 
Spirituality  First  Taught,  94;  Children's  Capacity  for  Spiritual  Teaching, 
94;  Father  and  Son,  95;  Means  of  Motivation,  95;  Incentives,  95. 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   9 

What  is  a  Testimony,  9;  Blessings  Predicated  Upon  Obedience,  9;  "By 
the  Power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  Ye  May  Know,"  10;  A  Personage  of  Spirit, 
10;  Analogies,  10;  Knowledge  from  the  Holy  Ghost  is  Sure,  11;  Testi- 
mony by  Divine  Revelation,  11. 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding   6 

Father  Asked  me  to  Read  the  Book  of  Mormon,  6;  Fundamental  Teach- 
ings of  the  Prophets,  6;  "Old  Things  Shall  Pass  Away,"  7;  The  Resur- 
rection a  Complete  Restoration,  7;  Earth  to  Receive  Resurrection  from 


INDEX  149 

Mortality,  7;  Darkness  Covered  the  Earth,  8;  The  Plan  of  Salvation 
Heaven's  Gift  to  Mankind,  8. 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   _   71 

The  Bible  Source  of  Spiritual  Truths,  71;  The  Bible  is  the  Word  of 
God,  71;  Confidence  in  Spiritual  Truths,  72;  Read  the  Book  Itself,  72; 
Alters  the  Lives  of  Men  and  Nations,  72. 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   61 


Symbol  of  Purity  and  Fidelity,  62;  The  Power  of  God  Unto  Salvation, 
62;  God's  Saving  Plan  and  Way  of  Life,  63;  Everlasting  Covenant  to 
Serve  the  Lord,  63;  To  Gain  Eternal  Life  Endure  to  the  End,  63;  Other 
Covenants,  63;  Covenants  Bind  to  a  Course  of  Righteous  Living,  64; 
"  The  Salt  of  the  Earth,"  64;  The  Light  of  the  World,  65;  The  World's 
Need,  65. 

Sustaining  Authorities,  President  Hugh  B.  Brown   .20,  21,  22,  23 

Tanner,  President  Nathan  Eldon  20,  24,  29,  32,  36,  38,  42,  43,  60, 

61,  65,  69,  70,  71,  73,  75,  78,  96,  101,  102,  106,  110,  113,  116,  119. 

Tanner,  President  Nathan  Eldon   43 

The  Real  Existence  of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  43;  The  Scriptures 
Testify  of  Him,  43;  His  Coming  Predicted,  44;  Oral  Traditions,  44; 
Prophecies  of  His  Coming,  44;  His  Coming  Anticipated  Through  the 
Centuries,  44;  He  Dwelt  Among  Men,  45;  His  Ancient  Disciples  Testify, 
45;  Peter's  Testimony,  45;  Paul,  A  Witness,  45;  Other  Testimonies  of 
Paul,  46;  The  Testimony  of  His  Teachings,  46;  His  Resurrection,  46;  His 
Disciples,  Witnesses,  46;  Testimony  from  the  Western  World,  47;  All 
Trustworthy  Witnesses,  47;  Joseph  Smith,  a  Witness,  47;  The  "Testi- 
mony Last  of  All,"  48,  He  is  the  Christ,  48. 


Tanner,  President  Nathan  Eldon   96 

Acknowledgement  of  Importance  of  Home,  96;  Priesthood,  the  Power  of 
God,  97;  Fathers  Are  for  Sons  to  Imitate,  97;  Pray  Away  from  Home,  97; 
Prepare  to  be  a  Missionary,  98;  The  Book  of  Mormon  as  Preparation,  98. 

Third  Day 

Morning  Meeting   101 

Afternonn  Meeting   120 

Turtle,  Elder  A.  Theodore   30 

Changes  in  South  American  Peoples,  30;  The  Turning  Point,  My  Testi- 
mony, 30;  I  Taught  My  Sons,  31;  "I  Know  the  Way  to  Eternal  Life,"  31; 
One  of  the  Miracles  of  Mormonism,  31;  Key  to  Improvement  of  Family, 
32. 

Vandenberg,  Bishop  John  H   39 

Counsel  of  the  Prophets,  39;  To  Ignore  Counsel  is  to  Invite  Failure,  39; 
Father  Adam  Accepted  Counsel,  40;  Be  Submissive  to  God,  40;  An 
Example  from  the  Old  Testament,  41;  A  Modern  Example,  41. 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth   69 


The  Call  of  the  Seventy,  69;  The  Missionary  Method  and  Message,  69; 
Finding  Interested  Persons,  70;  Stake  Presidents  Guiding  Hands,  70; 
Seventies,  Special  Witnesses,  70. 


r 

All 

Leather 
Bound 

POCKET  EDITIONS 
FROM  DESERET  BOOK 

Handy  editions  of  all  foremost  LDS  works  that  fit  neatly  in 
the  pocket. 

BIBLE,  Pocket  King  James  Version  $8.50 

TRIPLE  COMBINATION,  Book  of  Mormon,  Doctrine 

and  Covenants,  and  Pearl  of  Great  Price  $6.50 

THE  ARTICLES  OF  FAITH  by  James  E.  Talmage  $5.50 
JESUS  THE  CHRIST  by  James  E.  Talmage  $6.50 

A  MARVELOUS  WORK  AND  A  WONDER 

by  LeGrand  Richards  $3.95 

LDS  HYMN  BOOK  $3-95 


ttederet  Book 

COMPANY 

44  EAST  SO.  TEMPLE  AND  AT  COTTONWOOD  MALL 
SALT  LAKE  CITY 
2472  WASHINGTON  BLVD.,  OODEN 
777  SO.  MAIN  ST.,  ORANGE,  CALIFORNIA 


Printed  by 


in  the  United  States  of  A 


