SEVENTY=THIRD 


Annual  Conference 


OF  THE 


Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter=day  Saints 


T 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  April  4th,  t 
5th  and  6th,  1903,  with  a  full  Report 

of  the  Discourses.  t 


ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  % 
OF  THE  DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  f 
UNION.  f 

? 


The  Deseret  News 
1903. 


i 


The  Deseret  News 
Book  Store 

IS  HEADQUARTERS 

FOB 

all  Church  Works 


Issued  by  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 


General  Conference 

OF 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST 

The  Seventy-third  Annual  Conference 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  convened,  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  at  10  a.  m.  on  April  4th, 
1903,  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  presid- 
ing. 

THE  PROCEEDINGS. 

There  were  present  of  the  general 
authorities:  Of  the  First  Presidency, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  R.  Winder  and 
Anthon  H.  Lund.  Of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles:  John  Henry 
Smith,  George  Teasdale,  John  W.  Tay- 
lor, Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Matthias  F. 
Cowley,  Abraham  O.  Woodruff,  Rudger 
Clawson,  Reed  Smoot  and  Hyrum  M. 
Smith;  Presiding  Patriarch  of  the 
Church,  John  Smith;  First  Seven  Presi- 
dents of  Seventies:  Seymour  B.  Young, 
Brigham  H.  Roberts,  George  Reynolds, 
Jonathan'G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells 
and  Joseph  W.  MeMurrin;  of  the  pre- 
siding Bishopric,  William  B.  Preston, 
Robert  T.  Burton  and  Orrin  P.  Miller. 
There  were  likewise  a  large  number  of 
presidents  of  stakes,  their  counselors, 
presidents  of  missions  and  other  lead- 
ing men  of  the  Priesthood. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Our  God  we  raise  to  Thee, 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free 

We  here  enjoy; 
In  this  far  distant  land, 
A  true  and  chosen  band, 
Led  hither  by  Thy  hand, 

Would  sing  for  joy. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  David  H.  Cannon,  of  St.  George 
Stake. 


DAY 

The  choir  sang: 

High  on  the  mountain  top 
A  banner  is  unfurled, 
Ye  nations  now  look  up, 

It  waves  to  all  the  world. 
In  Deseret's  sweet  peaceful  land — 
On  Zion's  mount  behold  It  stand. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH.  F.  SMITH. 

Otiening  Address. 
Leading  subjects  for  the  Conference— Get  out 
of  debt  while  prosperity  prevails— How  to  ac- 
complish it— Saints  should  live  their  religion 
The  young  should  be  taught  mechanism  and 
industrial  arts  generally. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  very 
grateful  to  the  Lord,  the  Giver  of  all 
good,  for  the  privilege  that  we  enjoy 
this  morning  of  assembling  here, 
where  we  are  wont  to  gather,  at  our 
annual  and  semi-annual  conferences, 
for  the  purpose  of  attending  to  such 
business  and  matters  of  duty  that  may 
present  themselves  to  us  during  this 
conference,  and  for  the  purpose  of  giv- 
ing out,  so  far  as  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
may  dictate  to  us,  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
in  counsel,  admonition  and  instruction 
to  the  people. 

I  am  pleased  to  see  the  large  num- 
ber who  have  assembled  on  this  open- 
ing day  of  the  conference,  and  I  sin- 
cerely hope  that  we  may  all  enjoy  our 
coming  together  as  we  have  enjoyed 
this  privilege  in  days  past,  and,  if 
pleasing  before  the  Lord,  even  more 
abundantly. 

We  desire  to  have  the  privilege  of 
listening  to  as  many  of  the  brethren 
as  time  will  permit.  We  would  like  to 
hear  from  as  many  of  the  presidents  of 
stakes  as  we  can,  and  we  shall  en- 
deavor to    select    those    who  did  not 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  the  privilege  of  speaking  at  the 
last  conference,  among  whom  were  the 
First  Presidents  of  Seventies.  There 
is  a  vast  field  for  remarks  and  for  re- 
flection by  those  who  shall  speak  to  the 
people,  which  will  be  interesting  and 
instructive,  and  which  will  be  bene- 
ficial to  the  cause  we  are  engaged  in. 

It  is  not  my  intention  to  prolong 
my  remarks  this  morning,  but  I  de- 
she  to  mention  one  or  two  subjects 
that  I  think  worthy  of  the  attention  of 
the  brethren,  who  may  be  led  to  en- 
large upon  them  and  to  speak  to  the 
people  as  the  Spirit  may  give  them  ut 
terance. 

One  of  these  subjects  is,  that  in  the 
time  of  prosperity  which  we  are 
now  enjoying,  it  is  highly  pro- 
per for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  get 
out  of  debt.  I  have  unceasingly  urged 
this  thought  upon  the  brethren  for  the 
past  year  or  more.  Wherever  I  have 
had  the  opportunity  of  speaking  I  have 
scarcely  ever  forgotten  to  hold  out  to 
the  people  the  necessity— that  I  feel,  at 
least — of  our  settling  our  obligations 
and  freeing  ourselves  from  debt  in  the 
day  of  prosperity.  Our  experience  in 
the  years  that  have  past  must  have  led 
us  to  the  conclusion  that  we  have  per- 
iods of  prosperity,  followed  by  periods 
of  depression.  We  have  now  had  a 
long  period  of  success  and  prosperity, 
and  we  may  expect,  almost  at  any  time, 
to  see  these  conditions  change  and  a 
time  of  depression  spread  over  the  land 
and  over  the  people.  I  would  say,  in 
connection  with  this  subject,  that  one 
of  the  best  ways  that  I  know  of  to  pay 
my  obligations  to  my  brother,  my 
neighbor  or  business  associate,  is  for 
me  first  to  pay  my  obligations  to  the 
Lcrd.  I  can  pay  more  of  my  debts  to 
my  neighbors,  if  I  have  contracted 
them,  after  I  have  met  my  honest  obli- 
gations with  the  Lord,  than  I  can  by 
neglecting  the  latter;  and  you  can  do 
the  same.  If  you  desire  to  prosper,  and 
tn  be  free  men  and  women  and  a  free 
people,  first  meet  your  just  obligations 
to  God,  and  then  meet  vpur  obligations 
to  your  fellowmen.  Bishop  Hunter  used 
to  put  the  matter  in  these  words: 
"Brethren,  pay  your  tithing  and  be 
blessed;"  and  that  is  just  what  I  mean. 

It  is  not  necessary,  perhaps,  for  me 
to  say  that  there  never  was  a  time 
since  the  organization  of  the  Church 


when  it  was  more  necessary  than  it  is 
at  present  for  all  the  Latter-day  Saints 
to  live  their  religion  and  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  to  purge 
from  their  midst  iniquity,  folly  and  sin 
and  the  transgression  of  the  command- 
ments of  the  laws  of  God  unto  them. 
I  may  add  to  this  that  perhaps  thers 
never  was  a  time  when  the  work  of  the 
Lord  in  the  earth  was  in  greater  earn- 
est or  reality  than  it  is  today.  As 
a  proof  of  this,  we  need  only  to  open 
our  eyes  and  see  the  energy  and  activ- 
ity of  the  enemies  of  this  people  at  the 
present  time.  When  the  wicked  rage 
and  the  heathen  imagine  a  vain  thing 
relative  to  this  people,  we  may  set  it 
down  as  a  fact  that  the  devil  is  not 
dead,  and  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is 
not  dead,  either. 

We  are  lacking  in  much  that  is  good 
and  necessary.  One  of  the  things  that  I 
think  i3  very  necessary  is  that  we 
should  teach  our  boys  mechanism, 
teach  them  the  arts  of  industry,  and 
not  allow  our  sons  to  grow  up  with 
the  idea  that  there  is  nothing  honorable 
in  labor,  except  it  be  in  the  profession 
of  law,  or  in  some  other  light,  practic- 
ally unproductive  and,  I  was  going  to 
say,  unremunerative  employment,  but 
I  know  of  scarcely  any  employment 
more  remunerative  than  is  the  practise 
of  law,  to  those,  at  least,  who  are  pro- 
ficient. But  what  do  they  do  to  build 
up  the  country?  What  do  they  produce 
to  benefit  the  world?  There  may  be  a 
few  of  them  who  have  farms;  there 
may  be  a  few  of  them  who  have  manu- 
factories; there  may  be  a  few  of  them 
who  may  be  interested  and  engaged  in 
ether  productive  labor,  something  that 
Mill  build  up  the  country  and  the  peo- 
t  le  and  establish  permanence,  stability 
and  prosperity  in  the  land;  but  the  vast 
majority  of  them  are  leeches  upon  the 
body  politic  and  are  worthless  as  to  the 
building  up  of  any  community.  There 
are  a  good  many  of  our  boys  who  feel 
that  they  could  not  be  farmers,  and 
that  the  pursuit  of  farming  and  stock- 
raising  is  beneath  their  dignity.  There 
are  some  who  think  it  is  menial  and 
low  for  them  to  engage  in  building  en 
terprise's  as  masons,  carpenters  or 
builders  in  general.  There  are  but  a 
few  of  our  boys  who  take  to  the  ham- 
mer and  the  anvil  and  to  those  pursuits 
of  labor  that  are  essential  to  the  per- 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


3 


manence  of  any  community  in  the 
Tiorld  and  that  are  necessary  to  build 
up  the  country. 

I  say  that  we  are  remiss  and  slack 
In  relation  to  these  things,  that  we  are 
not  instilling  them  sufficiently  in  the 
minds  of  our  children,  and  that  we  are 
not  giving  them  the  opportunity  that 
they  should  enjoy  of  learning  how  to 
produce  from  the  earth  and  the  ma- 
teiials  that  are  on  the  face  of  it  or  in 
the  bowels  of  it,  that  which  is  neces- 
sary for  the  advancement  and  pros- 
perity of  mankind.  Some  of  us  have 
the  idea  that  it  is  degrading  for  our 
daughters  to  learn  how  to  cook,  how 
to  keep  house,  or  to  make  a  dress, 
apron  or  bonnet,  if  necessary.  No. 
Daughters  in  families  that  are  blessed 
with  plenty  of  means  are  taught  to 
play  the  piano,  to  sing,  to  go  out  in 
scciety  and  spend  their  time  in  idle, 
useless  pleasure,  instead  of  being 
taught  how  to  be  economical,  indus- 
trious and  frugal  and  how  to  become 
gocd  housewives.  That  is  degrading! 
I  would  like  to  say  to  this  congrega- 
tion, and  to  the  world,  that  if  I  pos- 
sessed millions  of  dollars  I  would  not 
b»  satisfied  or  content  in  my  mind 
unless  my  boys  knew  how  to  do  some- 
thing that  would  bring  them  in  a  liv- 
ing, how  to  handle  a  pitchfork,  or  to 
run  a  mowing  machine  or  reaper,  or 
how  to  plow  the  ground  and  sow  the 
seed;  nor  would  I  be  satisfied  if  my 
daughters  did  not  know  how  to  keep  a 
house.  T  would  be  ashamed  of  my 
children  if  they  did  not  know  some- 
thing of  these  things. 

"We  need  manual  training  schools  in- 
stead of  so  much  book-learning  and  the 
stuffing  of  fairy  tales  and  fables,  which 
are  contained  in  many  of  our  school 
bcoks  of  today.  If  we  would  devote 
more  money  and  time,  more  energy  and 
attention  to  teaching  our  children  man- 
ual labor  in  our  schools  than  we  do,  it 
would  be  a  better  thing  for  the  rising 
generation. 

There  are  many  subjects  of  this 
character,  in  addition  to  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel  of  eternal  truth  and  the 
plan  of  life  and  salvation,  that  can  be 
dwelt  upon  with  profit  by  those  who 
may  speak  to  us. 

Now,  I  do  not  desire  to  prolong  my 
remarks  this  morning.    I  pray  God  to 


bless  those  who  may  speak  to  us  and 
inspire  them  to  say  those  things  that 
will  be  instructive  and  beneficial,  and 
that  we  may  all  enjoy  that  measure  of 
the  spirit  of  intelligence  that  we  may 
divide  rightly  the  word  of  truth,  and 
that  we  all  may  receive  meat  in  due 
season.  That  God  may  grant  us  these 
privileges  and  blessings  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 
Manual  training  should  he  embodied  in  educa- 
tional system.  Devotion  and  progress  in 
Sabbath  Schools-Material  and  spiritual  pro- 
gress among  the  people— Missionary  success 
paralleled  by  opposition— Joseph  Smitn  a 
genuine  Prophet. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
desire  very  much  that  you  will  grant 
me  your  faith  and  prayers  and  earnest 
attention.  I  feel  highly  honored  this 
morning  in  being  called  to  address  this 
large  congreation.  We  have  another 
privilege  of  assembling  together  in  our 
annual  conference,  and  I  feel,  for  one, 
very  thankful  for  this  privilege.  My 
heart  goes  out  in  gratitude  to  mv  heav- 
enly Father  for  the  conditions  of  pros- 
perity that  surround  His  people  today. 
I  have  a  testimony  to  bear,  and  it  is 
the  same  testimony  that  I  have  been 
able  to  bear  for  many  years.  It  is  the 
truth,  as  I  have  heard  it  from  the  lips 
of  my  father  before  me,  and  from  the 
lips  of  my  brethren. 

When  I  observe,  as  I  do,  the  condi- 
tions of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the 
different  Stakes  of  Zion  where  I  have 
the  privilege  of  visiting  occasionally; 
when  I  see  the  chances  that  our  young 
people  have  to  advance  along  the  lines 
of  mind  and  spirit  culture,  I  rejoice 
exceedingly  to  find  so  many  of  our 
young  men  and  young  ladies  taking  the 
opportunity  offered  them,  and  prepar- 
ing themselves  fairly  well  on  the  lines 
of  culture  for  the  great  work  that  is 
before  them.  But,  with  the  feelings 
expressed  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  I  have  sometimes  regretted,  and 
do  regret  today,  the  lack  of  physical  or 
manual  training  in  our  general  system 
of  education.  President  Young  used  to 
say  that  the  education  of  the  youth 
was  incomplete  without  this  manual 
training  and  the  cultivation  of  those 
attributes  of  the  human  mind  which 
would  lead  to  the  development  of 
strength  and  ability  to  produce  from 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  earth  and  from  the  elements  sur- 
rounding- us.  This,  I  realize,  is  the 
case  with  us  today  to  a  certain  ex- 
tent. 

I  do  not  feel  to  find  any  fault  what- 
ever with  our  institutions  of  learning', 
or  with  those  men  and  women  who  de- 
vote themselves  so  faithfully  to  the 
training  of  our  young  people  in  the 
Church  schools  and  in  the  different  aux- 
iliary organizations  of  the  Church. 
Let  me  say  here  in  relation  to  our 
Sunday  schools,  that  they  have  be- 
come a  very  excellent  part  of  the  train- 
ing- of  our  young  people.  They  begin  at 
the  very  beginning,  as  it  were.  Our 
Sunday  school  teachers  commence  with 
the  little  children  and  work  with  them 
until  they  reach  the  advanced  grades, 
devoting  their  time  to  this  labor  of  love 
to  a  degree  that  does  not  exist  perhaps 
among  other  people.  This  devotion,  is 
manifest  by  all,  from  the  Sunday  school 
Union  Board  down  to  the  last  and  least 
teacher  in  the  organization.  They  not 
only  devote  their  time  every  Sabbath, 
but  on  week  days  they  spend  hours  and 
hours  in  the  development  of  their  own 
minds  along  the  line  of  the  educational 
welfare  of  the  children.  I  say,  they 
ought  to  be  praised  for  this  devotion, 
and  they  certainly  are  blessed  in  their 
labors. 

In  regard  to  this  manual  training,  I 
feel  that  our  schools  and  colleg-es  are 
incomplete,  and  will  remain  so  until 
we  have  in  every  one  of  them  a  sys- 
tem of  training  that  will  develop  the 
pupil  along-  the  lines  of  manual  culture 
in  the  most  useful  trades.  Today,  as 
has  been  truly  remarked,  we  are  in  a 
condition  of  great  prosperity.  Go  where 
I  may  throughout  the  length  and 
breadth  of  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  I  find 
the  people  in  a  condition  of  worldly 
comfort.  There  are  very  few  who  are 
actually  in  want  among-  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  Especially  is  this  the  case  in 
the  outside  Stakes  of  Zion.  Away  from 
these  populous  cities  like  Salt  Lake 
City,  it  is  the  exception  to  find  an  in- 
digent person.  The  fact  that  we  have 
some  of  them  here  is  accounted  for  by 
the  tendency  of  the  poor  and  those 
who  are  more  or  less  financially  help- 
less to  flock  to  these  centers  of  popula- 
tion. But,  speaking  g-enerally,  there 
exists  today  a  condition  of  prosperity 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints.    And  I 


believe  I  can  truthfully  say,  too,  that  I 
have  seen  decided  marks  of  improve- 
ment and  evidences  of  advancement 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints  along  the 
lines  of  faith  and  the  cultivation  of  the 
princples  of  the  Gospel.  There  has  been, 
spiritual  advancement  as  well  as  ad- 
vancement in  other  directions.  I  am 
glad  to  be  able  to  say  this.  I  testify 
to  you  who  are  assembled  here  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  very  choice 
people,  and  that  they  are  working  very 
diligently  and  faithfully  in  almost  ev- 
ery Stake  of  Zion.  Most  of  them,  in 
all  the  Stakes,  seem  to  be  impressed 
with  the  spirit  of  their  religion.  I  am 
glad  this  is  so.  In  it  I  see  the  results 
of  the  teachings  of  our  leaders.  The 
brethren  and  sisters  have  awakened  to 
a  sense  of  their  condition,  and  have  re- 
newed their  diligence  in  paying  their 
tithes  and  offerings.  I  see  the  blessings 
of  heaven  showered  down  upon  the 
people,  and  I  know  it  is  the  result  of 
their  obedience  to  the  principle  that  has 
been  so  sacredly  observed  by  them,  es- 
pecially in  the  last  few  years.  Since 
they  have  obeyed  that  law  more  faith- 
fully the  blessings  of  the  Lord  have 
been  more  abundantly  poured  out  upon 
them  from  one  end  of  the  land  to  the 
other.  The  quotation  of  Bishop  Hunter's 
has  been  truly  verified;  "Pay  your  tith- 
ing and  be  blessed."  We  do  feel  we  are 
blessed  when  we  obey  this  law. 

Commensurate  with  our  present  con- 
dition of  happiness  and  advancement, 
as  a  result  of  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
upon  us,  we  may  expect  to  find  oppo- 
sition in  the  minds  of  the  people  of  the 
world.  It  has  been  the  history  of  this 
people  from  the  first  that  as  they  ad- 
vanced in  faith  and  power  through  their 
obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel our  enemies  have  increased  in  their 
endeavors  to  put  down  the  truth  and 
stay  the  progress  of  this  work.  I  speak 
of  this  as  a  matter  of  history,  not  to 
throw  any  blame  upon  any  individual. 
"We  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
the  powers  of  evil  are  upon  the  face  of 
the  land  today,  as  they  have  been  ever 
since  the  organization  of  the  Church; 
and  they  have  been  more  manifest  as 
the  people  have  grown  in  faith  and 
power.  I  saw  not  long  ago  a  play 
represented,  and  in  it  was  the 
character  of  Satan.  He  said,  "I  rule  the 
earth;    my  power  is   everywhere."  I 


!       ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


5 


thought  within  my  own  heart,  how  true 
that  is,  in  a  sense;  but  on  further  re- 
flection I  was  led  to  exclaim  in  my 
heart,  "And  the  power  of  God  is  every- 
where als,o."  The  same  thought  brought 
to  my  remembrance  the  sentence  that 
"God  and  one  good  man  are  a  major- 
ity." 

The  work  of  the  Lord  is  progressing. 
The  Elders  are  laboring  faithfully  in 
the  different  missions,  and  success  has 
crowned  their  efforts  in  most  places. 
Occasionally  we  hear  of  some  violent 
opposition,  as  for  instance  the  misfor- 
tune that  recently  befell  one  of  our  El- 
ders in  the  South,  who  was  severely 
beaten  and  maltreated.  This,  however, 
is  no  new  thing.  The  powers  of  evii 
have  been  all  the  time  arrayed  against 
the  power  of  the  Lord  and  against  His 
servants,  in  every  land  where  they  min- 
istered. We  may  expect  opposition.  I 
remember  hearing  of  a  remark  that 
Sidney  Rigdon  made  soon  after  he  was 
mobbed  with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  dragged  to  insensibility  through  the 
woods.  He  asked  the  Prophet  Joseph 
how  long  that  was  going  to  continue. 
How  long,  said"  he,  must  we  submit  to 
these  outrages  and  abuses  from  the 
enemies  of  all  righteousness?  The 
Prophet's  reply  was  something  like  this: 
"Just  so  long,  Brother  Sidney,  as  the 
power  of  evil  is  upon  the  earth;  and 
until  the  power  of  God  overcomes  the 
power  of  evil,  so  long  will  there  be  evi- 
dences of  the  power  of  that  evil  one  ex- 
isting upon  the  earth,  to  the  hurt  and 
injury  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord."  The 
answer  made  by  Elder  Sidney  Rigdon 
was  not  the  most  hopeful.  Said  he, 
"Brother  Joseph,  I  can't  stand  it;  it  is 
more  than  I  can  bear."  I  have  some- 
times reflected  upon  that  statement, 
and  wondered  whether  he  was  wanting 
in  faith  through  a  lack  of  diligence  or 
of  purity  of  life,  or  whether  it  was  his 
misfortune  to  be  so  organized  that  he 
could  not  grasp  the  situation  and  com- 
prehend the  responsibility  that  was 
placed  upon  him.  Some  men  are  natu- 
rally weak,  and  soon  succumb  to  op- 
position; while  others  are  made  of 
sterner  stuff  and  meet  all  opposition 
with  unswerving  integrity,  especially  i£ 
they  know  for  themselves  that  they  art 
engaged  in  the  cause  of  right  and  truth; 
for  this  knowledge  to  any  man  brings  a 
power  and  a  reliance  that  is  not  easily 


overcome.  When  I  look  back  upon  the 
great  characters  that  have  been  the 
pioneers  of  this  work,  I  realize  that  they 
have  been  men  of  strength  and  courage. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  very 
head  and  front  of  this  Latter-day  dis- 
pensation, was  a  man  who  was  never 
known  to  flinch  or  falter,  though 
through  all  the  years  of  his  ministry  he 
was  hardly  for  a  moment  free  from  the 
bitterness  of  hate  exhibited  by  his  fel- 
lowmen,  and  for  no  other  reason  that  I 
could  ever  see  than  that  he  had  been 
chosen  by  the  Almighty  Himself  to  be 
His  Prophet  in 'this  the  great  dispen- 
sation of  the  fulness  of  times.  The  men 
who  have  followed  him  in  the  leader- 
ship of  the  Church  have  been  equally 
tried  and  true.  No  man  has  ever  seen 
the  time  when  such  as  Brigham  Young, 
Heber  C.  Kimball  and  other  noted  ones 
that  I  could  mention,  have  failed  or 
faltered  in  their  allegiance  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  or  to  the  Lord  Al- 
mighty. Though  these  men,  like  Broth- 
er Sidney  Rigdon,  received  more  than 
their  share  of  persecution  and  opposi- 
tion, looking  at  it  from  a  natural  stand- 
point, yet  they  were  never  overcome. 
They  had  the  courage  of  their  convic-i 
tions,  like  their  great  leader,  the  Proph- 
et Joseph,  and  they  stayed  by  them 
under  all  circumstances.  The  reason  for 
it  is  that  they  received  in  their  own 
hearts  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of 
this  work,  and  that  testimony  was 
burning  bright  in  their  hearts  all  the 
days  of  their  lives. 

We  hear  about  children  being  born  in 
the  Church.  Yes,  every  Latter-day 
Saint  is  born  in  the  Church,  and  there 
is  only  one  birth  that  admits  them  into 
the  Church,  and  that  is  the  birth  of 
baptism — the  birth  of  the  water  and  of 
the  Spirit.  That  admits  them  into  the 
Church  of  Christ,  and  marks  them  as 
the  children  of  God.  In  no  other  way 
can  they  receive  this  birth.  The  great 
warrior,  Napoleon,  said  that  although 
the  Savior  had  been  dead  eighteen  hun- 
dred years  the  impress  of  His  ministry 
and  power  had  been  so  developed  in  the 
hearts  of  the  human  family  that,  not-> 
withstanding  men  had  not  beheld  Him 
for  centuries,  His  divine  mission  still 
moved  the  world.  So  it  is  with  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  today.  Thousands  upon 
thousands  have  gathered  here  from  all 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


parts  of  the  earth.  Very  few  are  living 
who  saw  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  but 
the  power  of  God  manifested  through 
him  has  been  so  impressed  upon  the 
people  that  although  we  may  never 
have  seen  him  we  testify  that  he  was 
divinely  inspired.  Why?  Because  we 
have  the  same  testimony  of  Jesus  in 
our  hearts  that  Peter  had  when  the 
Master  asked  him,  "But  whom  say  ye 
that  I  am?"  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  the  living  God,"  said  Peter. 
Jesus  answered  him,  "Blessed  art  thou, 
Simon  Barjona;  for  flesh  and  blood 
hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my 
Father  which  is  in  heaven."  Peter  had 
the  revelation  from  the  Father  that 
Jesus  was  the  Christ.  By  the  same 
power  we  testify  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  God.  As  a  people  we  have 
not  seen  our  Savior  and  talked  with 
Him  face  to  face;  our  prophets  have 
that  high  honor  and  privilege,  as 
far  as  the  Lord  designs  they  should 
have;  but  the  Saints  generally  have  re- 
ceived the  impress  and  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Spirit;  and  although  most  of  them 
have  not  seen  the  Lord  face  to  face  yet 
they  testify  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
How?  By  the  power  of  the  living  God, 
and  by  the  witness  of  that  Holy  Spirit 
which  He  gives  to  every  earnest  and 
faithful  believer.  So  the  Saints,  who 
have  yielded  obedience  to  the  Gospel, 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  living 
God,  the  President  of  this  great  dispen- 
sation of  the  fulness  of  times. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  take 
heed  to  the  admonition  of  our  prophet 
and  leader  today.  While  we  are  in  a 
condition  of  prosperity,  let  us  not  for- 
get the  obligations  that  we  owe  to  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  see  to  it  that  we 
tithe  ourselves  honestly  before  the  Lord 
all  the  time.  Let  us  make  good  every 
obligation  that  is  laid  upon  us,  so  living 
before  the  Father  and  before  each  oth- 
er that  we  can  claim  a  continuation  of 
the  great  blessings  that  we  are  in  pos- 
session of  today.  I  testify  to  you  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  liv- 
ing God,  and  that  he  went  to  his  fate 
knowing  that  he  was  to  be  martyred 
for  the  truth  that  God  had  given  to 
him;  yet,  like  his  great  leader,  the  Sav- 
ior of  the  world,  he  did  not  flinch  or 


turn  aside  from  the  course  that  the 
Lord  had  marked  out  for  him  to  pur- 
sue. In  like  manner  the  brethren  who 
have  been  his  successors  have  been  un- 
swerving in  their  integrity,  true  to  their 
faith,  true  to  their  covenants  with  God 
and  with  each  other.  As  the  Lord 
blessed  them,  so  He  is  blessing  His  ser- 
vants and  people  today;  and  He  will 
continue  His  blessings  upon  us  if  we 
will  continue  to  serve  Him  faithfully. 
Although  we  may  have  the  evidence  ot 
the  hatred  of  wicked  men,  that  need  not 
discourage  us  at  all,  but  rather  give  us 
more  determination,  that  through  the 
grace  of  our  Father  and  through  the 
blessings  of  the  Gospel  we  will  remain 
true  and  faithful  to  Him  who  has  thus 
blessed  us.  I  pray  that  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  may  be  upon  the  speakers  dur- 
ing the  remainder  of  this  conference, 
and  that  the  spirit  of  our  leader  may  fill 
every  heart  and  encourage  every  one  of 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  lead 
us  all  on  in  the  paths  of  life  eternal. 
In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning. 
The  latter-day  glory  begins  to  come 
forth. 

The  visions  and  blessings  of  old  are  re- 
turning, 

The  angels  are  coming    to  visit  the 
earth. 

ELDER  JESSE  N.  SMITH, 
(President  of  Snowflake  Stake.) 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  suppose  I  am 
a  stranger  to  the  most  of  you.  I  came 
here,  however,  in  the  pioneer  year  of 
1847.  I  remained  in  Utah  till  about  23 
years  ago,  when  I  was  sent  out  to  Ari- 
zona, where  I  have  been  ever  since, 
simply  for  the  reason,  I  suppose,  that 
1  have  never  been  sent  anywhere  else. 
I  have  enjoyed  my  labors  there  very 
much,  and  have  felt  a  great  deal  of 
happiness,  believing  as  I  do  that  one  is 
always  happier  in  trying  to  do  his  duty 

than  under  any  other  circumstances. 
We  have  built  up  some  small  commu- 
nities there,  and  I  believe  that  they 
compare  very  favorably  with  the  other 
communities  of  that  territory.  If  you 
will  come  out  and  see  us,  we  well  show 
you  a  people  where  spades  grow  bright 
and  idle  words  grow  dull,  where  jails 
are  empty  and  barns  are  full.   You  will 


i 


ELDER  E.  D.  WOOLLEY. 


7 


observe  that  the  paths  which  lead  to 
the  houses  of  worship  are  well  worn, 
our  Sunday  schools  are  popular,  and  in 
all  respects  the  people  are  in  good  con- 
dition. They  are  an  intelligent,  upright 
people.  We  have  fairly  good  schools, 
and  a  good  academy.  We  have  had 
some  difficulties  to  contend  with  of  a 
physical  nature.  The  most  crying 
trouble  has  been  the  scarcity  of  wa- 
ter1— a  very  essential  element.  It  is  re- 
lated that  a  newspaper  correspondent 
came  out  to  Arizona  anxious  for  some- 
thing to  fill  his  paper,  perhaps,  and 
asked  a  native  about  affairs  there. 
This  man  felt  a  pride  in  his  country, 
and  he  said:  We  have  an  excellent 
country;  we  only  lack  two  things — 
we  are  short  of  water  and  we  lack  good 
society.  Oh!  said  the  newspaper  man, 
it  is  just  so  in  hell;  all  they  lack  there 
is  water  and  good  society.  But  we  have 
been  trying  to  remedy  these  conditions. 
In  the  place  where  I  live  we  have  tried 
reservoiring.  There  is  an  abundance 
of  water  in  the  winter  season,  but  in 
the  summer  season  it  disappears.  So 
we  have  tried  to  solve  the  problem  of 
holding  the  water  until  the  time  of 
scarcity.  Of  course,  it  has  been  in 
rather  a  small  way;  for  our  capital  con- 
sisted mainly  of  our  labor.  When  we 
had  planned  our  first  reservoir,  there 
came  along  two  gentlemen  in  a  buggy. 
I  never  saw  them  before,  and  I  never 
saw  them  after.  They  enquired  what 
was  the  object  of  our  labor  there,  and 
I  explained  to  them  as  well  as  I  could 
briefly.  They  seemed  much  interested, 
and  as  they  went  on  they  took  me  by 
the  hand  and  said,  "God  bless  you;  you 
are  in  the  right  of  it."  Well,  we  have 
proved  that  it  was  a  profitable  invest- 
ment. 

We  met  with  another  difficulty  when 
we  went  to  that  country.  Although  so 
long  ago,  we  found  all  the  facilities  of 
the  country  were  taken  up.  We  were 
compelled  to  buy  ranchmen  out,  and 
we  did  so  at  very  high  figures — the  best 
we  could  do.  Soon  afterwards  it  was 
discovered  that  we  were  upon  a  rail- 
road grant.  The  authorities  of  the  rail- 
road notified  us  that  we  were  on  their 
land,  and  that  we  would  be  required 
to  go  away  from  it  or  pay  up.  They 
had  assured  us  earlier  that  no  advan- 
tage would  be  taken  of  us,  and  that 


we  could  make  our  improvements  freely. 
They  even  distributed  among  us  blanks, 
which  we  filled  out  signed  and  execut- 
ed, setting  forth  that  we  had  rights. 
But  these  papers  were  ignored  after 
our  improvements  were  made,  after 
our  ditches  had  been  dug  and  several 
crops  had  been  produced.  We  felt  that 
we  had  made  everything  secure,  but 
this  great  corporation  was  not  above 
taking  advantage  in  that  way  of  a 
handful  of  people  who  were  struggling 
for  an  existence.  At  this  juncture  the 
authorities  of  the  Church  came  to  our 
assistance.  President  Woodruff  ad- 
vanced some  means  to'  help  us  in  mak- 
ing the  purchase.  Those  who  could,  af- 
terwards refunded  the  money  that  had 
been  paid  on  their  land;  the  balance 
the  authorities  of  the  Church  gave  to 
our  stake  for  the  benefit  of  reservoirs 
and  academies,  for  which  we  have  felt 
very  thankful. 

If  Mrs.  Nation  should  give  us  a  call, 
her  occupation  would  be  gone,  so  far 
as  smashing  saloons  is  concerned;  for 
we  have  none.  You  may  remain  with 
us  for  days  and  you  will  never  hear 
profanity  on  our  streets.  I  say  this 
advisedly.  Surrounded  by  a  cowboy 
element,  in  a  wild  land,  I  think  this 
speaks  well  for  our  communities.  I 
believe  they  have  the  faith  and  the 
hope  of  the  Gospel  in  them.  Drunken- 
ness is  entirely  unknown,  almost  un- 
heard-of in  our  communities.  We  are 
able  by  our  industry  to  secure  a  live- 
lihood, and,  I  believe,  are  reasonably 
contented.  For  my  part,  I  can  say  that 
I  am  contented. 

May  the  Lord  add  His  blessings.  May 
we  be  enabled  to  be  faithful  to  the 
trust  reposed  in  us.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 
I  may  be  pardoned  perhaps  if  I  an- 
nounce to  the  young  portion  of  the  con- 
gregation that  the  last  speaker  is  one 
of  the  two  living  cousins  of  the  Pro- 
phet Joseph  Smith  left  among  us. 

ELDER  E.  D.  WOOLLEY. 

(President  of  Kanab  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not 
know  whether  I  will  be  able  to  make 
you  all  hear,  as  this  is  more  of  a  con- 
gregation than  we  have  in  two  or  three 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  our  stakes;  but  I  rejoice  in  being 
present  at  this  conference.  I  realize 
that  it  is  the  duty  of  the  presidents 
of  stakes  to  visit  the  general  conference 
of  the  Church,  wherever  it  may  be 
called,  for  the  reason  that  there  they 
can  receive  the  instructions  that  are 
needed,  and  be  able  to  impart  the  same 
to  the  people  they  represent.  There  is  a 
responsibility  upon  every  presidency  of 
a  stake  similar  in  proportion  to  that 
upon  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  and 
I  realize  that  it  is  necessary  for  me  as 
an  individual  to  be  humble  and  to  seek 
unto  the  Lord  for  His  Spirit,  that  I 
may  be  useful  to  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, and  guard  and  protect  the  inter- 
ests of  the  people.  It  requires  a  great 
deal  of  labor,  thought,  patience  and 
perseverance  to  be  able  to  detect  and 
to  ward  off  the  adversary,  the  enemy 
of  righteousness  in  the  earth. 

The  physical  conditions  of  our  coun- 
try are  very  similar  to  that  which  you 
have  heard  described  by  Brother  Smith, 
of  Arizona.  We  are  only  about  three 
miles  from  the  Arizona  line;  and  when 
he  was  speaking  of  Mrs.  Nation  I 
thought  that  if  she  made  a  visit  to  our 
country  she  would  have  to  go  just  over 
the  line  into  Arizona  to  get  occupation. 
There  is  a  man  established  there  in  a 
tent,  and  he  dispenses  liquor,  and  en- 
tices some  of  our  young  people  down  to 
play  cards.  But  we  have  no  saloons  or 
places  of  that  kind  in  our  county. 

The  spiritual  condition  of  our  people 
is  fairly  good.  We  have  good  Latter- 
day  Saints,  who  are  conscientiously  try- 
ing to  keep  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord,  and  they  have  an  abiding  testi- 
mony of  the  Gospel,  which  they  are  try- 
ing to  maintain  by  living  uprightly  be- 
fore the  Lord.  I  have  felt  that  of  all 
the  gifts  of  the  Gospel  which  follow  the 
believer,  we  should  seek  for  the  gift  of 
discernment  of  spirits.  I  have  asked 
the  Lord  to  give  me  this  gift;  for  I  can 
see  that  the  adversary  will  work  upon 
the  minds  of  tjie  people,  and  one  of  the 
great  safeguards  against  1his  is  for  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  possess  this  gift, 
that  they  may  ward  off  the  adversary 
and  his  temptations,  or  any  influence 
that  is  calculated  to  bring  up  doubts 
in  their  minds  and  cause  them  to  com- 
plain and  find  fault  and  to  think  that 
perhaps  the  work  of  God  is  not  grow- 


ing. I  can  testify  to  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  the  work  of  the 
Lord  is  growing,  and  it  will  continue  to 
grow,  whether  we  keep  pace  with  it  or 
not  as  individuals.  One  of  the  evidences 
of  the  truth,  to  my  mind,  is  that  as  we 
grow  and  advance  the  heavier  the  op- 
position becomes  against  us.  You  take 
the  opposition  that  has  been  against 
the  Latter-day  Saints  from  the  time 
that  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared 
to  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  down  to  the 
present.  Considering  that,  it  is  mar- 
velous in  my  eyes  that  this  people  have 
made  the  progress  that  they  have.  They 
never  could  have  done  it  if  it  had  not 
been  for  the  individual  testimony  that 
the  Saints  receive.  And  they  must  re- 
ceive that  testimony  from  the  Lord.  It 
cannot  come  from  our  brother  or  our 
sister.  We  may  encourage,  »we  may 
strengthen,  we  may  build  one  another 
up  in  faith;  but  the  testimony  of  the 
Spirit  and  the  genius  of  this  work  must 
come  from  our  heavenly  Father.  This 
is  what  I  tell  my  children.  When  my 
boys  went  to  school  at  Provo,  I  said 
to  them:  Now,  you  will  study  theology. 
The  mechanical  part  you  can  receive; 
but  the  spirit,  the  testimony  of  the 
work,  you  must  receive  from  our  Heav- 
enly Father,  and  it  must  be  through 
your  humility,  your  faith  and  your 
prayers  to  Him. 

My  experience  thus  far  in  life  has 
been  with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
was  born  in  the  Church;  I  have  been 
reared  in  the  Church,  and  I  am  pretty 
familiar  with  the  history  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  by  passing  through  it  from 
the  early  settling  of  this  valley.  I  came 
here  as  a  child  in  1848,  and  have  been 
in  Utah  ever  since.  I  have  seen  many 
trials  that  this  people  have  passed 
through,  and  I  have  heard  many  proph- 
ecies delivered  from  this  stand,  and  in 
the  old  Tabernacle,  which  I  have  lived 
to  see  fulfilled.  I  have  heard  the 
warning  voice  of  the  Prophet  of  the 
Lord  from  time  to  time  all  my  life. 

Speaking  in  relation  to  the  sugges- 
tions given  this  morning  by  President 
Smith  concerning  our  financial  condi- 
tion, I  remember  that  for  years  before 
the  financial  distress  of  1893  the  Apos- 
tles warned  the  Latter-day  Saints — 
they  did  in  our  stake — to  prepare  for  a 
financial   crisis.     Many  of  the  people 


ELDER  BYRON  SESSIONS. 


9 


accepted  the  advice  and  profited  by  it. 
Before  I  left  home,  I  had  been  reading 
the  editorials  of  President  Smith,  and 
his  remarks  in  different  stakes,  and  I 
remarked  to  some  of  the  brethren,  there 
is  going  to  be  a  financial  depression, 
and  that  very  soon,  because  the  Presi- 
dent is  beginning  to  warn  the  people. 
From  the  early  settlement  here  up  to 
the  present  time  there  has  never  been  an 
approaching  evil  but  this  people  have 
been  warned  of  in  ample  time  to  avoid 
it  if  they  would  listen  to  the  voice  of 
inspiration.  It  has  been  so  in  all  the 
history  of  the  world.  When  the  Lord 
has  had  a  people  upon  the  earth  He  has 
always  forewarned  them  of  any  cal- 
amity that  was  approaching,  and  I 
firmly  believe  that  He  always  will.  "We 
should  appreciate  these  privileges  that 
we  have  over  and  above  other  people, 
because  of  the  testimony  and  assurance 
we  have  that  when  we  receive  this  ad- 
vice or  instruction  it  comes  through 
the  inspiration  of  our  heavenly  Father. 
He  is  fulfilling  His  promises  to  us.  He 
will  guide  us,  if  we  'will  listen.  He  will 
give  us  every  opportunity  to  grow  and 
expand,  and  to  become  a  noted  people 
in  the  earth.  He  is  magnifying  this 
people  in  the  eyes  of  the  people  of  the 
world  today,  and  He  will  continue  to  do 
this.  I  have  no  fear  of  the  growth  and 
prosperity  of  this  work.  I  have  no  fear 
of  the  leaders  of  this  work  not  receiving 
the  necessary  inspiration  for  the  guid- 
ance of  this  people.  I  believe  that  the 
majority  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
a  testimony  of  this,  and  will  have  un- 
derstanding hearts  and  listening  ears  to 
receive  these  instructions  and  to  profit 
thereby.  In  our  stake  we  have  a  good 
people.  We  are  similar  to  other  stakes; 
•sve  have  good  Latter-day  Saints,  we 
have  good  "Mormons,"  we  have  luke- 
warm "Mormons"  and  we  have  a  very 
few  that  are  not  of  our  faith,  at  all. 

.May  the  Lord  bless  us  at  this  con- 
ference, that  we  may  receive  those 
things  that  are  calculated  to  build  up 
and  strengthen  us  in  our  faith,  that  we 
may  magnify  the  Lord  in  the  earth  and 
establish  His  kingdom,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  BYRON  SESSIONS. 
(President  of  Big  Horn  Stake.) 
My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  feel 
grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  this 


honor  that  is  bestowed  upon  me  this 
morning  in  being  called  to  address  you 
and  to  represent  the  Big  Horn  Stake 
of  Zion.  I  feel  proud  of  the  people 
that  you  have  sent  into  that  stake.  I 
presume  that  there  are  before  me  many 
of  the  fathers  and  mothers,  the  sisters 
and  the  brothers  of  that  body  of  peo- 
ple that  compose  the  Saints  in  the  Big 
Horn  Stake  of  Zion.  I  wish  to  say 
to  you  that  I  feel  proud  of  them.  They 
have  honored  me  -in  my  position.  I 
never  have  had  yet  an  unpleasant 
word  from  one  of  the  colony  in  the  Big 
Horn  stake  in  the  last  three  years.  It 
is  three  years  the  22nd  of  this  month 
since  I  left  my  home  in  Rich  county, 
in  the  Woodruff  Stake  of  Zion,  to  go  to 
that  land,  according  to  a  call;  and  I 
feel  to  thank  the  brethren  for  that  call. 
I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  that  1 
was  taken  up  root  and  branch  and 
moved  into  that  land.  I  feel  satisfied 
now  with  my  labors,  which  I  never 
have  been  before.  As  has  been  said  by 
Brother  Woolley,  I  was  born  and  raised 
in  the  Church,  and  I  was  born  in  your 
beautiful  city,  and  immediately  after 
my  birth  was  taken  to  what  is  known 
as  Bountiful.  I  thank  my  Heavenly 
Father  that  my  parents  have  obeyed 
every  law  that  God  has  revealed  for 
them  to  obey;  and  I  thank  my  Heaven- 
ly Father  that  a  great  portion  of  the 
people  in  our  land  have  obeyed  those 
laws,  and  are  the  issue  from  some  of 
the  highest  laws  that  God  has  ever  re- 
vealed. Do  not  worry  about  your 
sons  and  your  daughters.  Do  not 
think  that  they  are  going  to  starve  to 
death  in  that  land.  We  have  a  goodly 
land,  and  we  are  prospering.  Our 
canal  is  finished.  The  brethren  are 
fencing  their  farms,  and  were  plowing 
their  land  long  before  I  left  home,  and 
I  left  there  two  weeks  ago  last  Wed- 
nesday. I  can  truthfully  say  that  none 
of  them  have  mortgaged  their  farms, 
for  the  simple  reason  that  they  have 
not  the  title  to  them  yet,  and  I  thank 
the  Lord  for  it.  We  propose  to  keep 
them  out  of  the  title  just  as  long  as 
possible;  we  do  not  want  them  to 
have  it  till  we  have  complied  with  the 
laws  of  our  state.  We  love  the  laws  of 
our  state.  I  believe  that  there  is  no 
better  laws  in  any  state  of  the  Union 
than  they  have   in  the  state  of  Wyom- 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ing.  We  love  the  executive;  we  love 
the  officials  of  that  state.  I  have 
been  fortunate  enough  to  live  for  30 
years  on  the  borders  of  the  state  of 
Wyoming-,  and  all  the  business  that  I 
transacted  has  been  transacted  in  that 
state.  I  have  known  two  of  the  su- 
preme judges  for  over  26  years,  and  I 
have  known  the  governor  for  26  years, 
and  I  have  known  nearly  every  state 
official.  I  have  had  the  honor  of  being 
in  that  legislative  body  in  connection 
with  President  Osmond  of  the  Star  Val- 
ley stake,  during  the  winter;  and  I 
have  gone  to  the  governor  of  that  state 
just  as  I  would  go  to  my  father  when- 
ever any  doubt  or  dubiety  pertaining  to 
any  measure  that  was  for  the  welfare 
of  the  common  people  has  arisen.  I 
have  gone  to  him  and  got  his  advice. 
The  first  thing  he  told  me  before  he  let 
loose  of  my  hand  when  I  went  there 
was,  "Now,  then,  I  want  you,  Byron, 
to  use  my  office  just  as  if  it  was  your 
own,  and  my  secretary;  I  want  you  to 
come  to  my  home  and  visit  me  and  stop 
all  night  with  me  and  eat  with  me." 
The  same  with  the  supreme  judges. 
They  want  our  people  in  that  land. 
They  invite  us  there.  They  know  that 
when  the  authorities  of  our 
Church  take  hold  of  a  propost-1 
tion,  whether  it  be  in  building 
canals  or  anything  else,  there  is  no 
doubt  in  their  minds  in  regard  to  the 
success.  They  have  learned  that  we 
have  the  only  successful  colonization 
people  that  there  is  in  that  land.  They 
have  tried  it  repeatedly,  and  they  have 
made  failures.  In  a  great  many  in- 
stances men  have  come  to  me  and 
wanted  information.  "How  can  we  han- 
dle a  people  like  this  people  are  han- 
dled by  Mr.  Woodruff  and  yourself?" 
Apostle  Woodruff,  you  know,  we  look 
upon  as  our  father,  as  our  common  in- 
structor and  guide  in  that  land,  in  tem- 
poral matters  as  wey  as  in  spiritual 
matters;  and  I  thank  my  Father  in 
Heaven  for  him.  I  thank  my  Father 
that  I  have  become  so  thoroughly  ac- 
quainted with  him,  although  sometimes 
it  has  been  quite  a  trial  for  me  to  foj- 
low  him,  I  followed  him  about  15  days 
before  coming  down  here,  holding  one 
end  of  a  surveyor's  chain  and  he  hold- 
ing the  other,  and  I  thought  he  would 
walk  me  to  death.     There  was  no  lie 


down,  no  stop.  He  has  that  same  de- 
sire and  anxiety  in  his  heart  regarding 
the  work  up  there.  He  has  remarked  to 
me  that  he  would  rather  die  than  see  it 
fail.  I  have  made  that  remark,  and  I 
make  it  again.  Send  men  there, 
if  you  are  going  to  send  men,  that 
are  not  afraid  to  labor.  I  endorse  every 
word,  and  thank  God  for  the  words  that 
we  have  heard  here  this  morning  from 
our  Prophet.  Let  us  keep  out 
Of  debt,  brethren.  Let  us  be  true;  let 
us  not  be  traitors  to  our  brethren  and 
to  one  another.  Preach  the  Gospel  by 
honoring  ourselves  and  honoring  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  those  who 
have  in  charge  His  work  here  in  the 
earth.  Preach  it  by  being  honorable  to 
our  fellow-man.  I  teach  the  people  in 
our  country  to  put  up  the  fences  of 
their  neighbors,  Jew  or  Gentile;  drive 
the  cattle  out  of  their  fields;  lift  the 
poor  cattle  out  of  the  mire,  and  show 
unto  them  that  we  do  believe  the  teach- 
ings of  our  Lord  and  Savior.  That  is 
the  way  I  propose  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel to  the  people,  until  I  am  directed 
otherwise,  as  well  as  sitting  down  by 
their  firesides  and  preaching  it  to  them. 
I  tell  you  that  example  has  more  effect; 
it  has  been  my  observation  through 
life,  in  preaching  the  Gospel  to  men 
who  do  not  believe  as  we  do.  We  have 
a  desire  to  bring  them  into  the  fold. 
They  are  my  brothers  and  my  sisters, 
and  it  is  my  business  to  show  unto 
them  by  example  that  I  do  believe  that 
which  I  preach. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  pray  that  God 
may  bless  this  conference,  bless  our 
Prophet  and  these  Apostles,  and  help 
us  to  be  true  to  them,  to  honor  them  in 
their  positions,  and  not  to  be  traitors. 
It  would  not  be  a  healthy  thing  for  a 
traitor,  if  ever  I  sat  on  a  jury  to  try 
him.  God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

The  choir  sang:  "Hark  listen  to  the 
trumpeters." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Charles  W. 
Penrose. 


SATURDAY  AFTERNOON 

Saturday,  2  p.  m. — The  choir  and  con- 
gregation sang: 

Guide    us,    O    Thou    great  Jehovah 
Saints  unto  the  promised  land; 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 


11 


We  are  weak,  but  Thou  art  able, 
Hold  us  with  Thy  powerful  hand. 
Holy  Spirit, 
Feed  us  till  the  Savior  comes. 

Prayer  by  Elder   Matthias    F.  Cow- 
ley. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

Though  deep'ning  trials  throng  your 
way, 

Press  on,  press  on,  ye  Saints  of  God; 
Ere  long  the  resurrection  day 
Will  spread  its  life  and  truth  abroad. 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 

With  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
rejoice  in  the  privileges  and  blessings 
of  this  conference.  The  presence  of  so 
many  upon  the  opening  day  of  confer  j 
ence  bespeaks  the  widespread  interest 
that  exists  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  the  work  of  God.  I  take  it 
that  we  are  all  interested  in  all  the  af- 
fairs of  the  Church,  in  all  phases  of  the 
work,  both  the  work  within  the  stakes 
of  Zion  and  the  work  abroad  among 
the  nations  of  the  earth.  But  while  we 
have  this  general  interest  in  all  depart- 
ments of  the  great  works  of  our  Fa- 
ther, it  is  but  natural  that  we  should 
have  a  particular  interest  in  that  de- 
partment of  it  in  which  more  especially 
we  are  called  to  labor.  I  make  this  re- 
mark in  order  that  you  may  understand 
why  it  is  that  I  address  a  few  words  to 
the  conference  in  relation  to  that  body 
of  Priesthood  over  which,  in  connec- 
tion with  the  other  presidents  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  I  am  called 
to  preside. 

We  have  in  the  church  143  quorums 
of  Seventy.  There  would  be  over  10,000 
men  in  that  body  if  all  the  quorums 
were  full;  but  some  of  them  are  not  full. 
Others, however.have  members  awaiting 
admission.  So  that  the  number  of  Sev- 
enties today  in  the  Church  is  not  far 
from  10,000.  They  are  a  body  of  men 
set  apart  and  especially  ordained  to  en- 
gage in  the  foreign  ministry  of  the 
Church.  When  you  take  into  account 
the  very  extended  area  of  country  in 
which  these  quorums  are  scattered,  you 
can  readily  understand  that  it  requires 
considerable  labor  to  reach  these  organ- 
izations and  keep  them  fully  organized 
and  the  vacancies  in  the  respective 
councils  filled. 


Why  I  refer  to  this  subject  is  for  the 
purpose  of  making  a  suggestion  or  two 
to  the  Presidents    of  stakes    and  the 
Bishops  of  wards  who  are  gathered  on 
this  occasion.    I  think  a  little  careful 
attention  to  the  great  amount  of  work 
that  is  required  at  the  hands  of  the 
First  Council  of   Seventy    in  keeping 
these  quorums  completely  and  fully  or- 
ganized   would    make    the  presiding 
brethren  a  little  cautions  about  taking- 
our  Seventies,  and  especially  the  presi- 
dents of  quorums,  for  local  positions. 
Of  course,  I  understand  that  there  are 
very  important  offices  to    fill  in  the 
Church,  and  when    the  right    man  is 
found  among  the  Seventies  it  is  proper 
that  he  should  be  ordained  to  the  posi- 
tion; but  if  one  equally  fitted  could  be 
found  among  the  Elders  or  the  High 
Priests  I  think  it  would  be  wisdom  on 
the  part  of  presidents  of  stakes  and 
Bishops  to  find  men  for  local  positions 
in  these  quorums  and  not  disturb  the 
presidencies  of  the  quorums  of  Seventy. 
Of  late,  when  thinking  upon  this  sub- 
ject, and  the  inconvenience  that  we  are 
frequently  put  to,  I   have  been  much 
impressed    with    a  principle    that  is 
named  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The 
passage  gives  a  description  of  the  man- 
ner in  which  the  Apostles  among  the 

Nephites,  upon  this  continent  ordained 
men  to  office.    It  is  as  follows: 

"The  manner  which  the  disciples  who 
were  called  the  Elders  of  the  church, 
ordained  Priests  and  Teachers. 

"After  they  had  prjayed  unto  the  Fa- 
ther in  the  name  of  Christ,  they  laid 
their  hands  upon  them,  and  said, 

"In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  I  ordain 
you  to  be  a  Priest;  (or,  if  he  be  a 
Teacher,)  I  ordain  you  to  be  a  Teach- 
er to  preach  repentance  and  remission 
of  sins  through  Jesus  Christ,  by  the  en- 
durance of  faith  on  his  name  to  the 
end.  Amen." 

This  is  the  point  more  especially, 
however,  to  which  I  direct  your  atten- 
tion: 

"And  after  this  manner  did  they  or- 
dain Priests  and  Teachers,  according  to 
the  gifts  and  callings  of  God  unto  men. 

If  those  who  in  the  first  instance  di- 
rect the  footsteps  of  our  youth  into  the 
quorums  of  the  Priesthood,  would  take 
into  account  more  the  gifts  and  call- 
ings of  God  unto  these  young  men,  I 
think  it  would  be  possible  to  overcome 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


some  of  our  difficulties.  The  young 
men  should  be  directed  into  those  quor- 
ums that  their  natural  gifts — "the 
gifts  and  callings  of  God"  unto  them — 
qualify  them  for.  If  it  is  observed  in  a 
young  man  as  he  develops  under 
the  eye  of  the  Bishop,  that 
he  is  possessed  of  executive  abilities, 
then  that  fact  should  be  remembered, 
and  he  should  be  directed  into  that 
quorum  where  his  special  training 
v  ould  develop  the  qualities  he  possesses 
for  a  career  of  usefulness  in  the 
Church.  Or  when  a  young  man  is  found 
who  is  possessed  of  that  combination 
of  qualities  that  go  to  the  making  of 
the  judicial  mind;  if  he  has  the  rare 
faculty  of  balancing  one  statement  as 
against  another;  the  ability  to  look  at 
both  sides  of  a  question,  and  justly 
weigh  the  evidence;  then  he  should  be 
directed  to  the  Elders'  or  High  Priests' 
quorum,  whose  business  it  is  to  pre- 
pare men  for  presiding  and  judicial 
ceilings  in  the  Church;  and  sometime 
in  the  future,  when  a  High  Councilor, 
or  some  presiding  officer  is  required  he 
might  be  remembered  and  found  in  that 
quorum  where  it  would  create  no  dis- 
turbance to  take  him,  and  place  him  in 
the  presiding  or  judicial  position.  On 
the  other  hand,  where  men  are  ob- 
served to  possess  the  ability  to  teach, 
^nd  the  spirit  of  testimony  is  strong 
upon  them,  and  they  have  in  them  the 
mitking  of  a  good  witness  for  the  Lord 
Ji  sus  Christ,  let  such  be  directed  into 
the  quorums  of  the  Seventy.  Thus,  if 
we  stand  down  the  line  where  we  be- 
gin to  divide  men  off  in  the  direction 
of  their  life's  labors  in  the  Church,  and 
consider  "the  gifts  and  callings  of  God 
unto  them,"  I  think  we  can  help  the 
conditions  of  which  I  am  now  speak- 
ing. In  any  event,  while  present  con- 
ditions exist,  local  presiding  officers,  I 
am  sure,  would  confer  a  great  favor 
Uf.on  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  if 
they  took  more  into  account  the  in- 
convenience and  the  increase  of  labor 
they  make  us  when  they  choose  men 
from  among  the  presidencies  of  the 
quorums  of  seventy,  when  others  could 
be  found  who  would  fill  the  positions 
equally  well. 

While  speaking  on  the  subject  of  the 
Seventy.  I  wish  to  call  attention  to 
one  of  the  great  things  laid  before  us 


in  the  opening  remarks  of  President 
Smith.  There  is  no  body  of  men  in 
the  Church  to  whom  his  remarks  on  the 
matter  of  freeing  themselves  from  debt, 
apply  with  so  much  force,  as  to  the 
Seventy.  The  First  Council  is  in  con- 
stant communication  with  the  Seven- 
ties in  all  parts  of  the  Church  territory. 
We  are  continually  on  the  lookout  for 
men  who  can  go  on  missions.  All  the 
time  we  are  corresponding  with  men 
who  are  recommended  to  us  as  worthy 
to  go  upon  missions,  but  we  find  so 
many  of  them  involved  in  debt  that 
when  this  glorious  opportunity  is  pre- 
sented to  them  of  going  upon  a  mis- 
sion, to  discharge  the  high  duties  of 
their  calling  in  the  Priesthood,  they  art: 
barred  from  accepting  that  appoint- 
ment by  reason  of  being  financially  in- 
volved. If  I  could  say  a  word  th 
would  emphasize  the  teachings  of  the 
president  upon  this  subject,  I  most 
certainly  would  do  it,  and  urge  upon 
our  Seventies,  above  all  men  in  the 
world,  to  free  themselves  from  finan- 
cial obligations,  that  they  may  be  at 
liberty  to  exercise  the  powers  of  tha 
Priesthood  in  preaching  righteousness 
to  the  world,  and  in  standing  before  it 
as  witnesses  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

In  the  opening  remarks  of  our  presi 
dent  texts  were  given  to  the  Elders  of 
Israel  which  they  can  expound  and 
teach  with  very  great  profit  to  the 
people;  and  I  believe  that  upon  those 
various  subjects  in  this  conference 
there  will  be  words  spoken  that  will 
throw  great  light  and  intelligence  upon 
those  subjects.  The  matter  of  encour- 
aging our  young  men  to  engage  in  me- 
chanical arts  and  trades  is  a  matter 
that  calls  for  most  earnest  attention 
and  wisest  consideration  on  the  part 
of  the  leading  brethren  in  Israel,  and 
from  fathers  and  mothers  everywhere. 
The  fact  that  it  becomes  necessary  to 
call  attention  to  such  a  matter  is  an 
indication  that  circumstances  are  un- 
dergoing a  great  change  with  us.  Here- 
tofore, occupying  as  we  do  a  new  coun- 
try, our  young  men  when  they  came 
to  manhood  and  found  a  place  incon- 
veniently narrow  for  them,  had  but  to 
remove  a  few  miles  where  lands  could 
be  obtained,  and  out  of  those  lands 
make  themselves  homes  and  establish 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 


themselves  in  a  community  where  they 
would  furnish  themselves  with  employ- 
ment; and  doubtless  for  some  time  to 
come  there  will  be  an  outlet  for  our 
young     people     in     that  direction, 
although      we      may      be  required 
tc      remove     to     greater  distances 
than    in    the    years    that    are  past. 
But   as   our  communities  increase  in 
number  and  our  centers  of  population 
become  more  and  more  crowded,  we 
shall  find  those  among  us — in  fact,  we 
do  now— *who  have  no  taste,  no  desire, 
to  engage  in  the  kind  of  life  incident  to 
opening   new   lands   and  establishing 
new  communities;  and  of  necessity  they 
must  turn  their  attention  to  the  acquir- 
ing of  skill  in  some  kind  of  useful  la- 
bor.  It  will  be  impossible  for  all  to  en- 
gage in  the  professions;  for  the  cry  al- 
ready, is  that  the  professions  are  over- 
crowded.   But  in  connection  with  turn- 
ing our  attention  to  the  acquirement  of 
skill  in  mechanical  arts  and  trades, 
there  is  a  question    which  we  must 
needs  reflect  upon  and  provide  for.  This 
is  an  age  of  organization,  both  of  capi- 
tal and  labor.    The  hosts  of  men  that 
are  engaged  in  the  several  trades  have 
found  it  necessary  in  some  way  or  other 
to  portect  themselves,  that  they  may 
command  a  reasonable  price  for  that  la- 
bor.   In  other  words,  they  have  com- 
bined to  control  wages,  just  as  far  as  it 
is  possible  to  control  them.  It  is  beyond 
question  that  these  organizations  in 
some  cases  become  oppressive  and  work 
great  mischief.    They  feel  power,  and 
they  forget  right.    But  something  had 
to  be  done  in  order  to  make  it  possible 
for  labor  to  hold  its  own  against  the 
growing  force  and  greed  and  power  of 
combined  capital;  and  whatever  the  ex- 
cesses may  be,  and  however  much  we 
may  regret  them,  nevertheless  organi- 
zation and  union  on  the  part  of  labor 
became  an  absolute  necessity  to  the 
working  masses.  The  labor  unions  today 
to  a  very  great  extent  dictate  the  num- 
ber that  shall  be  permitted  to  enter  in- 
to the  various  crafts  and  trades.  They 
say  ho*w  many  apprentices  shall  be  al- 
lowed in  the  respective  trades.  They 
attempt  to  control  the  supply  of  labor 
in  that  way,  because  they  do  not  desire 
that  the  supply  shall  be  greater  than 
the  demand;  because  the  greater  the 
demand  the  better  the  price  that  may 


be  asked  for  the  labor.  I  do  not  in  the 
few  words  that  can  be  said  on  this  oc- 
casion undertake  to  discuss  this  ques- 
tion at  length.  I  merely  call  attention 
to  its  existence..  And  it  will  become 
necessary  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
our  centers  of  population  to  determine 
what  shall  be  the  relation  of  those  en- 
tering into  these  trades  to  the  unions 
that  are  controlling  the  trades.  I  mere- 
ly bring  it  before  you,  that  the  wise 
men  in  Israel  may  take  it  into  account; 
for  it  is  one  of  the  facts  that  we  shall 
necessarily  be  brought  in  contact  with 
when  we  undertake  to  encourage  our 
youth,  as  perforce  we  must,  to  enter  in- 
to mechanical  arts  and  trades  as  the 
means  of  sustaining  themselves  by  their 
labor. 

The  work  of  the  Lord,  President 
Smith  tells  us,  is  growing;  and  further 
he  says  there  never  -was  a  period  of  time 
in  its  history  when  interest  in  it  was 
greater  than  today.  I  rejoice  in  that 
growth.  I  sometimes  wonder  if  we  com- 
prehend or  even  apprehend  the  facts 
that  enter  into  that  growth,  and  that 
enlargement  of  interest.  If  time  would 
permit  it,  I  should  only  be  too  glad  to 
call  attention,  not  only  to  the  direct 
evidences  of  growth  and  of  interest  in 
the  work  of  God,  but  also  to  the  indi- 
rect means  that  God  is  employing  in  the 
matter  of  enlarging  His  work  and  pre- 
paring the  >way  for  nations  to  be  born 
within  it  in  a  day.  It  does  seem  to  me 
that  the  whole  world  is  fermenting  with 
the  leaven  that  God  planted  when  He 
brought  this  work  into  the  earth 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  To 
the  Church  has  been  assigned  the  honor 
of  the  title  role  in  God's  great  drama 
of  the  last  days.  But  as  in  the  drama 
the  actor  bearing  the  title  role  does  not 
alone  develop  the  thought  of  the  poet's 
mind,  so  we  as  the  Church  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  though  bearing  the  honor  of 
the  position  assigned  to  us,  do  not  con- 
stitute the  only  force  that  God  is  using 
in  bringing  to  pass  His  great  and 
mighty  purposes.  In  his  day  Paul 
said  that  some  men  preached 
Christ  of  envy  and  strife,  and  some  of 
good  will;  but  he  gloried  in  this  fact, 
that  whether  preached  out  of  envy  and 
strife  or  of  good  will,  the  Lord  would  so 
overrule  their  actions  as  to  bring  to 
pass  His  purposes.  I  sometimes  feel 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


amused  when  I  reflect  upon  what  the 
surprise  of  many  of  our  enemies  will  be 
when  they  discover  that  the  Lord  has 
overruled  their  actions,  made  even  of 
them  instruments  to  accomplish  His 
ends,  and  had  so  controlled  their  wrath 
as  to  make  it  praise  Him. 

The  theology  of  the  world  has 
changed  since  the  introduction  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  You  can  find 
no  minister  today  to  voice  from  his  pul- 
pit the  doctrine  of  infant  damnation. 
Tou  can  get  no  minister  today  to  deny 
the  possibility  of  continued  revelation 
from  God.  Tou  can  get  no  minister  to- 
day to  undertake  to  defend  the  position 
that  God,  by  a  mere  caprice  of  His  sov- 
ereign will,  "sends  one  to  heaven  and 
ten  to  hell"— not  for  any  good  or  ill 
they  have  done  before  Him,  but  just  for 
His  glory.  The  doctrine  which  the  poet 
Burns  satirizes  in  substantially  that 
language  is  a  thing  of  the  past  in  the 
pulpits  of  men.  These  modifications  in 
the  Christian  world's  theology — and  a 
hundred  other  modifications — have  been 
due  chiefly  to  the  truths  God  revealed 
through  Joseph  Smith  the  prophet;  and 
thousands  of  eloquent  tongues  and  pens 
have  been  employed  teaching  these 
truths  which  have  led  to  the  correction 
of  many  errors  in  religion,  without 
knowing  the  origin  of  their  doctrine. 

The  advancement  made  in  all  the  arts 
and  sciences  is  also  very  materially 
helping  to  bring  to.  pass  God's  mighty 
purposes.  We  overlook,  it  seems  to  me 
sometimes,  the  moral  force  that  goes 
with  some  of  our  great  inventions.  It 
is  now  about  three-quarters  of  a  cen- 
tury since  the  electric  telegraph  flashed 
from  Washington  to  Baltimore  the  first 
intelligible  message  by"  that  means  of 
communication.  Since  then  that  all 
parts  of  the  world  have  been  brought 
into  instant  communication  with  one 
another.  It  seemed  to  dawn  upon  the 
minds  of  some  that  if  a  message  could 
be  transmitted  over  wires,  by  means  of 
sounds  in  dots  and  dashes  there  was  no 
reason  why  the  tones  of  the  human 
voice  could  not  be  so  communicated; 
and  now,  though  separated  by  hun- 
dreds and  thousands  of  miles,  a  man 
may  converse  familiarly  with  his  friend 
by  means  of  this  great  invention.  Re- 
cently another  step  has  been  taken  in 
the  progress  of  this  means  of  communi- 


cation, which  gives  us  reason  to  believe 
that  before  long  the  wives  may  be  dis- 
pensed with,  the  ocean  cables  may  be 
abandoned,  and  out  on  the  sensitive, 
trembling  atmosphere,  that  touches  all 
parts  of  the  world,  a  message  can  be 
sent  forth,  and  safely  carried  even 
across  the  great  expanse  of  ocean,  so 
that  the  whole  round  world  can  be 
through  this  means  in  constant  com- 
munication. The  moral  force — the  force 
that  makes  for  faith— in  these  thfngs  is 
this:  The  idea  is  dispelled  that  it  is 
impossible  for  God,  at  His  home,  to  be 
in  immedate  communication  with  the 
whole  world.  These  mighty  inventions, 
this  progress  in  art  and  in  science,  are 
constantly  developing  the  powers  that 
are  in  man  and  the  great  things  yiat  he 
can  accomplish,  narrow  as  are  his  lim- 
itations at  present.  The  result  is  that 
men  reason  after  this  fashion:  If  man 
with  his  limited  knowledge  and  intel- 
lectual powers  can  accomplish  so  much, 
is  it  difficult  to  believe  that  God  has  ac- 
complished all  that  is  accredited  to  Him 
in  the  revelations  of  the  prophets?  So 
there  is  in  the  development  of  these 
arts  and  sciences  that  which  makes  for 
faith  in  the  power  of  God;  and  these  in- 
direct means  are  accomplishing  very 
much  in  preparing  the  minds  of  men 
for  these  great  truths  that  are  to  be 
found  in  the  revelations  brought  forth 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The 
leaven  is  working;  and  some  of  thesa 
days  it  will  only  be  necessary  to  strike 
the  keynote  and  there  shall  be  a  wide 
and  broad  acceptance  of  the  things  that 
God  has  revealed  through  the  great  lat- 
ter-day prophet. 

I  rejoice  in  these  indirect  means,  a» 
well  as  in  the  direct  means,  that  the 
Lord  is  using  for  the  accomplishment 
of  His  purposes,  in  preparing  the  way 
for  the  coming  of  His  kingdom,  which 
I  pray  may  come  quickly,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  H.  MERRILL. 

(Late  President  of  the  Samoan  Mission) 

I  am  truly  trankful  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  privilege  thus  accorded 
me  to  stand  before  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  this  afternoon.  I  hope 
that  the  Spirit  of  God  may  dictate  that 
which  I  may  say,  that  we  may  all  be 


ELDER  JOSEPH  H.  MERRILL. 


15 


profited  together.  I  have  been  greatly 
interested  in  the  remarks  that  have 
been  made  thus  far  by  the  brethern, 
and  I  heartly  endorse  all  that  has  been 
said. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  for  the  past 
fifteen  months  to  preside  over  the  Sa- 
moan  Mission,  which  consists  of  a  few 
small  islands  in  the  Pacific  ocean,  about 
5,000  miles  from  here.  No  doubt,  there 
are  in  this  congregation  parents,  broth- 
ers and  sisters  of  the  Elders  who  are 
laboring  upon  that  group,  and  for  their 
benefit  as  well  as  for  the  benefit  of  the 
Saints  in  general  I  will  give  a  short  re- 
port of  our  labors  upon  those  islands. 
We  have  a  band  of  faithful  brethren  and 
sisters  at  present  laboring  among  the 
Lamanites  there,  and  they  are  enjoy- 
ing the  Spirit  of  God  even  as  we  enjoy 
it  here  in  conference.  There  is  a  spirit 
that  is  poured  out  upon  the  Elders  in 
the  nations  of  the  earth  which  binds 
them  so  closely  together  in  the  bonds 
of  brotherhood  and  love  that  they  are 
one  in  very  deed.  The  same  spirit  pre- 
vails here  this  afternoon,  and  it  fills  my 
heart  with  joy  to  meet  with  the  Saints 
in  general  conference.  The  Samoan 
Mission,  as  you  are  more  or  less  aware, 
has  been  opened  nearly  15  years.  Dur- 
ing- that  time  a  great  deal  of  work  has 
been  done,  both  manual  and  spiritual. 
We  have  at  present  a  faithful  band  of 
Saints,  numbering  over  1,400,  upon  those 
islands,  out  of  a  population  of  about 
30,000.  There  is  quite  a  number  also 
who  have  been  identified  with  the  work, 
and,  through  temptation  and  sin,  have 
fallen  away  and  are  scattered  among 
the  people.  Strange  to  say,  those  wh:> 
are  cut  off  from  the  Church  there  do 
not  lose  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel, 
but  are  always  ready  to  bear  a  strong 
testimony  to  the  truth  as  revealed 
through  Joseph  Smith  and  preached  by 
the  Elders. 

The  report  has  gone  out  among  the 
Saints  at  home,  I  believe,  that  the  Sa- 
moan Mission  is  a  hard  mission;  and 
when  young  people  have  been  called  to 
go  to  those  islands  I  have  heard  some 
of  the  Saints  remark  that  any  place  on 
earth  would  be  preferable  to  the  Sa- 
moan Mission.  I  wish  to  dispel  that  no- 
tion from  your  minds.  I  feel  assured 
that  in  stating  to  you  that  the  Samoan 
Mission  is  as  healthy  and  as  favorable 


a  mission  as  an  Elder  can  go  to,  I  am 
only  stating  the  truth.  There  has  been 
some  sickness  among  the  Elders,  and 
one  of  our  number  has  lately  passed 
away;  but  the  same  conditions  exist  in 
other  missions.  The  power  of  God  is  felt 
just  as  strongly  in  the  Samoan  Mission 
as  it  is  in  the  California  Mission,  or 
the  Southern  States  Mission,  or  any 
place  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  God 
has  a  protecting  hand  over  all  His  El- 
ders, wherever  they  are  sent.  So  that 
when  your  sons  and  daughters  are  call- 
ed to  take  a  mission  to  Samoa,  you 
should  rather  ■feel  to  say,  go  and  God 
bless  you,  than  to  desire  the  mission 
changed  to  some  other  part  of  the 
world.  Your  sons  and  daughters  are 
safe  there.  God  watches  over  and  cares 
for  them.  His  will  is  done  concerning 
us,  no  matter  as  to  which  part  of  the 
earth  we  are  located  upon.  There  is 
one  thing-  we  can  rest  assured  of— there 
is  no  accident  with  the  Lord.  Anything 
which  happens  to  an  Elder  in  the  prose- 
cution of  his  duty,  that  takes  him  from 
his  field  of  labor,  is  not  an  accident.  The 
purposes  of  the  Lord  are  fulfilled  con- 
cerning us,  no  matter  where  we  are,  if 
we  only  yield  to  the  promptings  of  His 
Spirit. 

I  have  a  testimony  which  I  am  proud 
to  be  able  to  bear.  I  know  that  this  is 
the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God,  estab- 
lished upon  the  earth  in  these  the  lat- 
ter days  for  the  last  time,  never 
more  to  be  taken  away  nor  given  to 
another  people.  Should  we  desire 
proofs  to  establish  our  belief  in  this 
matter.  Brother  Roberts  has  given  us  a 
few  external  evidences  by  which  we 
may  know  the  workings  of  our  Heaven- 
ly Father  with  this  people.  When  J 
contemplate  the  fact  that  nearly,  if  not 
all  who  sit  before  me  this  afternoon 
have  the  same  testimony  that  has  been 
given  unto  me — that  the  Gospel  of 
Christ  has  been  again  revealed  to  the 
earth,  and  we  have  been  made  par- 
takers of  it — it  makes  my  heart  rejoice, 
and  I  am  led  to  exclaim  in  my  joy  to 
my  Father;  how  great  is  His  goodness 
towards  us,  His  children!  Then  the 
thought  comes  to  my  mind:  Are  we  liv- 
ing up  _  to  the  opportunities  that  the 
Gospel  affords  us?  We  come  together 
In  conference  and  the  Spirit  of  God 
is  poured  out  upon  us  in  great  measure, 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


as  the  word  of  God  is  given  unto  us 
through  His  servants.  We  feel  to  re- 
joice and  are  willing  to  give  all  we  have 
for  the  work  of  the  Lord.  We  feel  to 
consecrate  and  dedicate  all  our  pro- 
perty and  all  that  the  Lord  has  giver, 
us  for  the  upbuilding  of  His  kingdom 
upon  the  earth.  Often  in  our  prayers 
we  dedicate  unto  Him  all  that  He  has 
made  us  stewards  over,  and  ask  Him 
for  wisdom  to  use  it  acceptably  before 
Him.  I  wonder  if  we  really  mean  it  on 
all  occasions.  If  the  Bishop  were  to 
ccme  in  just  as  you  got  up  from  your 
pi  ayer  and  asked  you ,  for  your  best 
cow,  or  for  $100,  or  for  five  acres  of 
land,  to  help  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
would  you  give  it  up? 

God  has  given  us  the  light  of  the 
everlasting  Gospel.  He  has  bestowed 
great  promises  upon  us — eternal  life 
exaltation  and  glory  in  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  our  God.  If  we  will  only 
keep  His  commandments,  loving  Him 
with  all  our  might,  mind  and  strength, 
and  our  neighbors  as  ourselves,  these 
things  will  be  ours.  He  has  also  given 
us  all  our  earthly  possessions.  They 
'ire  His.  He  can  take  them  from  us  in 
a  moment;  He  can  take  us  in  a  mo- 
ment; but  we  cannot  take  any  of  these 
worldly  things  with  us.  Then  if  we 
set  our  hearts  upon  them,  and  they 
become  greater  in  our  sight  than  our 
Father  and  His  purposes;  if  we  regard 
the  gift  greater  than  the  giver,  we 
shall  forfeit  the  blessings  that  are 
promised  unto  us. 

Brother  Roberts  has  been  speaking  a 
little  about  the  Seventies.  I  am  a 
Seventy  myself — a  president  of  Seventy. 
I  have  had  some  experience  with  Broth- 
er Roberts,  Brother  Kimball,  and  a  few 
of  the  Seventies,  and  I  just  wish  to 
say  a  word  or  two  to  the  Seventies 
present.  I  believe  Brother  Roberts 
placed  us  all  in  the  same  box.  Whether 
he  did  or  not,  we  are  all  there.  Th" 
word  comes  to  us  to  select  a  certain 
number  from  our  quorum  to  fill  mis- 
sions abroad.  The  presidents  of  the 
quorum  meet  together  and  consider  the 
circumstances  of  the  Seventies  in  that 
quorum.  The  names  are  selected  and 
sent  in.  They  are  notified,  and  the  word 
comes  back,  'We  are  in  debt;  we  can- 
not go;  possibly  we  can  go  in  six 
months  from  now."     That  is  a  long 


"minute"  man,  asking  for  six  months' 
Then  again,  a  man  accepts  the  call.  1 
ii  notified  to  depart  at  a  certain  time. 
But  his  wife  does  not  like  to  lose  him. 
She  whines,  she  cries  a  little,  and  she 
■says,  "Oh!  what  will  I  do  when  you 
are  gone?   What  will  the  children  do? 
You  are  our  only  support,  and  I  don't 
see  how  you  can  go."    Then  the  man 
has  to  write  back  and  tell  the  First 
Council  that  he  can't  go,  because  his 
wife  can't  spare  him.   That  is  the  con- 
dition of  some  of  our  "minute"  men.  I 
want  to  tell  you  that  the  woman  who 
will  lay  a  straw  in  the  path  of  her  hus- 
band against  the  fulfilling  of  his  duty 
and  calling  will  come  under  condem- 
nation before  the  Lord.    The  man  that 
will  be  involved  in  indebtedness  so  that 
he  cannot  accept  a  call  and  fulfil  hi^ 
duty  will  come  under  condemnation. 
The  kingdom  of  God  has  been  establish- 
ed in  these  last  days,  and  it  must  roll  on 
God  has  selected  from  among  His  peo- 
ple those  who  are  worthy  to  bear  this 
Priesthood,  whose  duty  it  is  to  carry 
this  Gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth; 
and  it  is  our  duty  to  fulfil  our  calling, 
to  be  "minute"  men,  not  "six  months" 
men,  nor.  "one  year"  men.    That  is  the 
calling  of  a  Seventy;  and  if  the  Seven- 
ties are  not  fulfilling  their  calling  they 
come  under  condemnation,  and  those 
of  the  Lesser  Priesthood  receive  these 
calls  and  obtain  the  blessing. 

I  do  not  make  these  remarks  with  a 
desire  to  find  fault;  but  these  are  con- 
ditions that  have  come  to  my  notice  as 
existing  among  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  heard  a  remark  made  at  one  time  that 
the  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  would  go 
back  and  redeem  Jackson  county,  while 
the  indifferent  would  stay  in  the  val- 
leys of  the  mountains.  These  blessings 
and  privileges  that  God  has  promised 
unto  us  through  our  faithfulness  will  b<s 
ours  if  we  labor  for  them.  There  is 
no  blessing,  no  reward  promised  except 
by  obedience  to  the  law  upon  which  the 
blessing  is  predicted.  This  was  made 
very  plain  to  the  ancient  Saints,  and 
has  been  made  plain  to  us.  It  has  been 
said  here  this  morning  that  we  should 
pay  our  tithes  and  offerings.  This  ds 
a  commandment  that  God  gave  unto 
His  people  anciently,  and  coupled  with 
this  command  is  a  blessing,  even  a  tem- 
poral blessing.      The    Lord  promised 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON. 


17 


those  who  would  obey  this  law  that  He 
Would  pour  out  upon  them  such  bless- 
ings that  they  would  not  have  room  to 
contain  them.  On  one  occasion,  when 
the  children  of  Israel  were  without  the 
Spirit  of  God'  and  their  Priests  had  lost 
their  power,  the  Lord  told  them  that  it 
was  not  because  His  arm  was  shortened 
that  He  could  not  save,  nor  that  He-was 
deaf  that  he  could  not  hear,  but  it  was 
because  of  their  wickedness.  In  speak- 
ing to  Israel  through  His  prophet  Mala- 
chi,  the  Lord  says: 

"Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  store- 
house, that  there  may  be  meat  in  mine 
house,  and  prove  me  now  herewith, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not 
open  you  the  windows  of  heaven,  and 
pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there 
shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it." 

President  Snow  preached  to  the  peo- 
ple to  pay  their  tithes  and  the  Lord,  he 
said,  would  pour  out  great  blessings 
upon  them.  We  rounded  up  our  shoul- 
ders and  paid  tithing  as  we  have  never 
done  before.  As  a  consequence,  the 
blessings  of  God  have  been  poured  out 
upon  us,  until  today  we  see  prosperity 
on  every  hand.  These  commandments 
are  with  us  continually,  and  should  re- 
ceive our  attention  every  day.  Presi- 
dent "Woodruff  laid  stress  upon  these 
words:  "Get  the  Spirit  of  God  and 
keep  it."  I  would  say  to  the  Saints  this 
afternoon,  if  you  would  be  in  the  right 
path,  if  you  would  be  safe  from  the 
snares  and  temptations  of  this  world, 
get  the  Spirit  of  God  and  keep  it;  be 
humble;  keep  in  touch  with  those  who 
are  in  authority  over  you;  seek  to  have 
confidence  in  your  Bishop  and  his  coun- 
selors and  in  the  Teachers  of  the 
Church.  God  gives  unto  us  His  mind 
and  will  through  His  servant  the  proph- 
et, and  it  is  our  duty  to  lend  a  listen- 
ing ear  thereto.  When  President  Smith 
tells  us  it  is  a  good  thing  to  get  out 
of  debt,  we  should  do  all  we  can  to  get 
out  of  debt.  It  means  something, 
brethren  and  sisters.  There  are  things 
in  store  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
we  cannot  see  today.  There  are  things 
coming  upon  us  which  we  may  be  pre- 
pared to  meet,  if  we  will  only  take  the 
counsel  of  the  prophet  of  God. 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  God  may  be 
poured  out  upon  us,  that  when  we  re- 
turn to  our  homes  the  spirit  of  this  con- 


ference may  attend  us  and  always  be 
with  us,  that  we  may  have  a  burning 
testimony  within  us  of  the.  truthfulness 
of  this  work,  that  we  may  always  have 
a  desire  to  keep  the  commandments  01 
God,  let  come  what  may,  and  then  sal- 
vation and  eternal  glory  will  be  ours  in 
the  end.  May  the  Spirit  of  God  contin- 
ue with  us,  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON, 
(Late    President  of  the  Netherlands 
Mission.) 

It  is  very  unexpected  to  me,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  called  upon 
to  address  you  this  afternoon,  as  I 
realize  that  there  are  so  many  here 
who  are  much  more  competent  to  give 
instruction,  and  to  whom  I  would  rath- 
er listen,  as  no  doubt  you  all  would, 
who  have  had  experience  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord,  and  the  Saints  are  gathered 
to  receive  instructions,  to  be  profited 
in  their  future  lives.  At  the  same  time 
I  rejoice  to  be  privileged  to  meet  with 
the  Saints  in  general  conference.  It  is 
the  first  time  in  eight  years  that  I 
have  been  able  to  meet  with  the  Saints 
in  this  capacity.  For  over  three  years 
past  I  have  been  in  the  mission  field, 
and  previous  to  that  I  was  absent 
studying.  Therefore,  I  appreciate  prob- 
ably greater  than  I  otherwise  would 
what  a  grand  opportunity  it  is  to  meet 
with  the  Saints,  to  partake  of  the  spirit 
of  conference,  and  to  receive  the  in- 
structions which  are  given.  As  I  say,  I 
rejoice  to  be  with  you.  I  rejoice  in  the 
instructions  which  have  been  already 
given  during  this  day,  and  I  feel  certain 
that  during  the  remainder  of  this  con- 
ference there  will  be  a  great  outpouring 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  that  we  will  all 
be  built  up  and  benefited  if  we  prepare 
our  hearts  to  receive  and  carry  out  the 
instructions. 

It  is  some  five  months  since  I  return- 
ed from  my  mission  to  the  Netherlands, 
where  I  was  absent  for  three  years.  I 
desire  to  say  that  the  work  in  that  field 
is  prospering.  The  outlook  is  excellent, 
It  was  at  the  time  I  left,  and  from  news 
that  I  have  lately  received  I  learn  that 
the  condition  is  just  as  good  or  better 
now.  The  Gospel  is  being  preached 
in  Holland  and  Belgium  of  that  mis- 


18 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


sion,  and  progress  is  being  made.  There 
are  30  Elders  in  the  field.  There  are 
over  2,000  Saints  and  children  in  the 
entire  mission,  and  during  the  past  year 
over  200  "were  baptized.  There  was  a 
greater  average  per  missionary  baptiz- 
ed during  the  past  year  in  that  mission 
than  in  any  other  mission  in  Europe,  it 
being  eight  persons  per  missionary. 

Holland  is  recognized  as  a  land  of  re- 
ligious liberty.  For  centuries  the  peo- 
ple of  Holland  struggled— in  fact,  at 
the  time  of  the  Reformation  they  were 
among  the  first  to  obtain  religious  lib- 
erty, and  to  be  freed  from  that  oppres- 
sion and  domination  which  was  charac- 
teristic of  the  countries  of  Europe  at 
that  time.  On  this  account  they  have 
given  religious  liberty  to  other  sects, 
and  we  are  as  free  to  preach  there  as 
almost  any  other  religious  denomina- 
tion. We  are  not  allowed  to  preach 
upon  the  streets;  but  .as  a  matter'  of 
fact,  none  of  the  religious  denomina- 
tions are  allowed  this  privilege. 
In  every  respect  we  receive  the  same 
protection  as  the  other  sects.  The  peo- 
ple are  plain  and  honest;  they  are  read- 
ers of  the  Bible,  and  they  appreciate 
the  truths  of  the  Bible  when  they  are 
explained.  When  our  missionaries  go 
among  them  with  doctrines  which  agree 
exactly  with  the  doctrines  presented  by 
our  Lord  and  Savior  as  contained  in  the 
holy  scriptures,  they  are  received  with 
welcome,  generally  speaking,  and  the 
people  give  them  a  fair  hearing.  As  a 
result  of  this,  the  missionaries  are  bus- 
ily occupied  in  preaching  the  Gospel  to 
that  nation,  and  the  results  are  appar- 
ent. The  only  lack  is,  there  are  not 
enough  missionaries  to  carry  the  work 
on  as  they  would  like.  New  branches 
are  being  opened  up,  and  the  work  is 
prospering.  To  a  certain  extent,  the 
same  is  true  of  Belgium.  However,  that 
country  has  a  different  population — a 
people  of  different  characteristics.  They 
are  almost  entirely  Catholic.  I  believe, 
however,  that  if  we  can  get  men  who 
are  intelligent  and  energetic,  and  who 
understand  something  of  the  French 
language,  the  work  in  that  country  will 
be  a  great  help  to  the  work  there.  It 
is  developing  slowly  at  present,  and  I 
believe  there  is  a  greater  fu- 
ture for  it.  I  also  feel  that  there  is 
a  work  to  be  done  in  France;  for  a 


number  of  those  who  have  accepted 
the  Gospel  in  Belgium  were  born  in 
France,  coming  especially  from  north- 
ern France;  and  from  persons  with 
whom  I  have  talked  in  regard  to  con- 
ditions in  that  country  I  gather  that 
the  people  are  somewhat  of  the  same 
nature  as  those  in  Holland.  They  de- 
sire religious  liberty,  and  they  wish 
to  learn  the  truth.  During  my  mission 
I  read  an  article  in  one  of  the  papers 
in  Holland,  to  the  effect  that  there  is 
a  certain  division  of  the  Catholic 
church  called  "Old  Catholics."  They 
separated  from  the  Catholic  church 
several  centuries  ago;  and  the  article 
stated  that  at  least  a  part  of  that  sect 
believe  that  Elijah  the  Prophet  is  to- 
return  and  bring  a  message  from  the 
heavens,  and  they  are  waiting  his  re- 
turn. It  seemed  to  me  that  to  a  cer- 
tain extent  these  people  were  prepared 
to  receive  the  Gospel.  If  it  should 
be  testified  to  them  that  the  Prophet 
Elijah  had  come,  and  that  he  had  re- 
stored that  which  was  his  province  to 
restore,  it  might  be  a  message  of  glad 
tidings  to  them,  in  connection  with  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  as  they  have 
been  revealed  in  these  latter  days. 

I  believe  there  is  a  great  work  to  be 
done  in  those  nations,  and  in  other 
nations  of  Europe  and  of  the  world. 
It  was  my  privilege,  during  my  ab- 
sence, to  make  a  journey,  in  company 
with  President.  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
throughout  several  of  the  countries  of 
Europe,  Africa  and  Asia,  visiting 
among  others  the  Holy  Land;  and 
upon  our  return  we  passed  through 
Italy.  I  was  agreeably  disappointed 
in  the  condition  of  that  people.  From 
the  idea  we  obtain  here  at  home,  from 
seeing  the  Italians  who  are  in  our 
midst,  we  are  apt  to  gain  an  entirely 
wrong  view  of  the  Italians  as  a  people. 
They  are  a  fine  people,  a  people  of  in- 
telligence, a  people  of  hospitality  and 
kindness  in  every  respect,  and  a  people 
many  of  whom,  I  believe,  will  accept 
the  Gospel  in  the  future.  There  are 
no  missionaries  in  that  field  at  the  pres- 
ent time.  As  we  know,  Apostle  Lo- 
renzo Snow  was  sent  there  to  open  that 
field  many  years  ago,  but  no  great  suc- 
cess was  obtained  at  that  time. 

I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel.  I  rejoice  in 
the  testimony  I  have  received  of  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  KELLEY. 


19 


truth  of  it.  I  trust  that  we  may  all 
go  forward,  faithfully  performing  our 
duty  from  time  to  time.  There  is  a 
great  responsibility  resting  upon  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  There  is  a  serious 
responsibility  resting  upon  the  young 
men  to  qualify  themselves,  spiritually, 
morally  and  physically,  to  preach  the 
Gospel,  to  be  pillars  of  strength  in  the 
Church  of  our  God,  and  to  perform 
every  labor  which  they  are  called  upon 
to  perform.  After  being  absent  from 
this  city  preaching  the  Gospel,  and  re- 
turning home,  one  notices  probably 
more  than  one  who  is  at  home  continu- 
ally the  changes  that  have  occurred, 
and  the  temptations  which  are  con- 
stantly increasing  in  this  city.  It  may 
be  the  same  in  other  cities  and  towns. 
Trials  and  temptations  surround  our 
young  people  which  tend  to  cause  them 
to  be  thoughtless,  to  go  after  the  pleas- 
ures of  the  .  world,  and  to  consider  sim- 
ply those  things  which  will  give  them 
pleasure  fcr  the  time  being.  For  this 
reason  I  believe  there  is  a  slight  ten- 
dency to  devote  ourselves  more  to 
these  useless  pleasures  than  to  the 
serious  things  of  life;  to  be  consider- 
ing always  how  we  can  obtain  worldly 
enjoyment  rather  than  how  we  can 
make  progress  in  the  Gospel  and  be  of 
use  to  our  fellowmen.  I  believe  it  is 
of  great  importance  to  the  young  peo- 
ple among  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
they  should  endeavor  to  cultivate  a 
spirit  of  earnestness  and  of  serious- 
ness in  regard  to  the  responsibilities 
which  rest  upon  them.  And  we  have 
heard  many  times,  those  who  are  now 
pillars  of  the  Church,  who  have  en- 
dured many  years,  and  whose  hair  has 
grown  white  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord,  will  not  always  be  with  us;  and 
those  who  are  growing  up  will  have  to 
bear  off  the  kingdom  on  their  shoul- 
ders, and  assuredly  it  is  important  that 
they  should  prepare  themselves  for 
these  responsibilities.  The  kingdom 
is  constantly  growing,  the  responsibili- 
ties are  becoming  constantly  greater, 
and  the  Lord  requires  more  and  more 
instruments  to  accomplish  His  pur- 
poses upon  the  earth. 

T  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
be  with  you.  I  pray  that  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  may  be  with  us  continual- 
ly, that  perfect  unity  and  harmony 


may  prevail  among  us,  that  we  may 
profit  greatly  by  this  conference,  that 
we  may  take  to  heart  the  instructions- 
we  receive,  and  that  they  may  be  as 
seed  which  when  planted  in  our  hearts- 
shall  grow  and  bring  forth  fruit  that 
will  be  of  great  benefit  to  the  Church, 
to  one  another,  to  our  fellowmen,  an  3" 
to  the  country  in  which  we  live,  that 
we  may  be  wise  and  prudent  in  ful- 
filling the  responsibilities  which  rest 
upon  us  as  citizens  of  this  great  coun- 
try. May  we  be  blessed  in  fulfilling: 
every  duty  which  rests  upon  us,  I  de- 
sire to  testify  that  I  know  that  the 
Gospel  is  true;  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  in  possession  of  the  truth 
as  it  has  been  revealed  from  heaven; 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God;  that  his  successors  have  been  and 
are  prophets  of  God,  and  that  those 
upon  this  stand  who  have  been  called 
and  sustained  as  leaders  of  this  Church 
are  in  very  deed  men  of  God,  who  re- 
ceive revelations  from  Him  for  the 
guidance  of  this  people.  May  we  sup- 
port them  fully.  May  we  be  united  in 
nil  things,  and  may  we  endeavor  to 
improve  ourselves  and  our  opportuni- 
ties from  day  to  day,  that  we  may  be 
finally  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  SMITH. 

It  gives  me  pleasure  to  say  to  the 
congregation  that  the  last  speaker  is 
a  son  of  our  late  lamented  President 
George  Q.  Cannon.  It  always  gives  me 
pleasure  to  see  the  sons  of  men  who 
have  been  faithful  in  the  Church  fol- 
lowing in  the  footsteps  of  their  fath- 
ers. 

ELDER  CHARLES  KELLY. 

(President  of  Boxelder  Stake.) 

Beloved  Saints,  I  trust  that  the  Lord 
w  ill  give  me  utterance  the  few  mo- 
ments I  may  stand  before  you  in  re- 
sponse to  the  request  made  by  our  be- 
loved president.  I  appear  before  you 
as  a  representative  of  the  Boxelder 
Stake  of  Zion,  one  of  the  oldest  Stakes 
of  Zion,  located  in  the  extreme  north 
of  our  state,  bordering  on  to  southern 
Idaho  and  eastern  Nevada,  bounded  on 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  east  by  Hyrum  and  Cache  Stakes, 
and  on  the  south  by  Weber  Stake.  We 
number  about  7,000  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Spints.  In  our  Stake  we  have  a  little 
over  1,500  who  bear  the  holy  Aaronic 
and  Melchisedek  Priesthoods — a  strong 
army  of  workers;  and  we're  all  alive, 
active  and  energetic  in  the  perform- 
ance of  the  sacred  duties  required  of 
that  priesthood  and  authority  which 
God  has  restored  to  the  earth,  we 
would  certainly  be  a  strong  and  a 
powerful  Stake  of  Zion.  I  am  pleased 
to  report  to  this  conference  our  condi- 
tion as  a  stake.  I  am  pleased  to  say 
that  the  presidency  of  the  stake  are 
united  and  love  each  other.  We  unite 
on  every  proposition  before  we  go  be- 
fore the  people.  We  have  a  High  Coun- 
cil who  are  united  with  the  presidency 
of  the  stake.  We  hold  High  Council 
meetings  orrce  a  month,  and  at  each  of 
these  meetings  all  matters  of  general 
interest  to  our  wards  and  organizations 
are  discussed  and  a  thorough  under- 
standing arrived  at.  We  are  active  in 
visiting  the  wards,  of  which  there  are 
13  in  the  stake,  together  with  three 
branches.  I  am  pleased  to  tell  you  thr> 
the  same  spirit  which  prevails  with  the 
presidency  and  High  Council  can  be 
found  in  every  ward.  The  Boxelder 
Stake  of  Zion  in  the  Last  seven  years 
has  doubled  its  tithing,  accepting  the 
counsel  of  our  former  and  beloved 
President  of  the  Church,  Lorenzo 
Snow,  who  counseled  this  whole 
people  to  more  fully  observe  that 
law  and  get  closer  to  the  Lord 
and  receive  His  blessings.  Our  stake 
has  been  endeavoring  to  carry  out  that 
advice,  and  I  testify  that  we  have  got 
nearer  to  the  Lord. 

There  is  a  greater  spirit  of  union  and 
love  for  the  truth  among  our  people  to- 
day than  ever  in  my  experience  of  be- 
tween thirty  and  forty  years  among 
that  people.  That  principle  taught  by 
President  Snow  years  ago,  by  which  we 
got  together  in  our  temporal  interests 
and  established  what  we  called  the 
United  Order;  that  principle  of  co-op- 
eration by  which  all  were  employed  in 
some  industry  or  another — the  spirit  of 
that  principle  has  not  left  our  stake 
entirely.    In  those  days  we  had  no  idle 


boys  and  girls,  no  idle  men  and  women, 
in  our  county.  We  had  employments 
established  there  that  took  in  every- 
body. We  had  a  peculiar  currency,  by 
which  we  met  our  obligations.  It  was 
a  scrip  that  was  made  suitable  to  our 
conditions,  in  which  our  brethren  and 
sisters  were  paid  from  the  shoeshop,  the 
carpenters,  the  blacksmiths,  the  dress- 
makers, the  dairy  workers,  and  from 
the  other  departments,  thirty  in  num- 
ber, that  were  organized  in  that  stake. 
For  years,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
there  was  love,  union  and  industry  in 
the  midst  of  that  people.  But  for  some 
cause  or  other,  misfortune  came — shall 
I  say  through  the  providence  of  the 
Lord?  We  say  that  the  Lord  doeth  all 
things  well,  and  that  nothing  happens 
but  what  He  knows  about.  At  any  rate, 
misfortune  came  to  us.  The  enemy 
came  upon  us  and  assessed  us  between 
$10,000  and  $11,000  for  circulating  our 
scrip,  which  was  never  intended  for  or 
passed  as  money,  and  we  got  but  very 
little  of  it  back  from  the  government. 
Fire  destroyed  our  woolen  factory, 
which  entailed  a  loss  of  between  $30,000 
and  $40,000;  but  the  unity  of  the  people 
was  sufficient  for  the  occasion,  and  it 
was  rebuilt.  We  are  an  industrious 
people  now,  but  we  have  not  got  those 
institutions  in  our  midst.  You  will  re- 
member that  Boxelder  Stake  was  not- 
ed throughout  the  Church  for  its  co- 
operation, for  its  United  Order.  But 
while  the  institutions  of  that  order  have 
gone  the  principle  by  which  they  were 
created  and  governed  so  many  years, 
under  the  administration  of  President 
Snow,  has  not  left  our  people.  We  are 
a  united  people.  In  our  stake  we  have 
not  got  a  secret  order  or  combination 
outside  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  When  a  young  man 
comes  to  our  Priesthood  meeting  with  a 
recommend  from  his  Bishop  to  be  or- 
dained an  Elder,  the  question  is  put  to 
him,  Are  you  a  member  of  any  secret 
order?  So  far,  the  answer  has  been 
"No"  in  every  instance.  We  are  trying 
to  educate  our  brethren  and  sisters 
against  the  introduction  of  these  evils. 
Many  years  ago  we  taught  these  prin- 
ciples to  our  people,  and  though  many 
attempts  have  been  made  to  introduce 
these  orders  into  our  stake  they  have 
been  without  effect.    I  am  pleased  to 


ELDER  CHARLES  KELLET. 


21 


make  that  statement  to  you  at  this  con- 
ference. 

I  was  very  much  pleased  with  the  re- 
marks of  Elder  Roberts  touching  these 
matters.    A  brother  came  to  me  the 
other  day,  and  asked  if  a  trades  union 
was  a  secret  order,  and  whether  it  was 
so  considered  by  the  authorities  of  the 
Church.    I  said  I  did  not  know  how  the 
authorities  viewed  trades  unions,  but  I 
would  consider  them  secret  orders.  It 
is  a  system  by  which  one  man  is  pro- 
tected   and  another    is  turned  adrift. 
His  family  may    be    suffering  for  the" 
necessaries  of  life;  he  may  be  a  skilful 
mechanic  and  an  honest  laborer;  but  if 
he  is  not  a  member  of  a  certain  union 
he  cannot  get  employment.    I  told  the 
brother  that  in  my  opinion  trades  un- 
ions   are    secret  orders  and  come  un- 
der the  orders  described  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon.    I  feel  that  their  effects  will 
be  felt  by  and  by  in  the  world,  and  also 
among  us  if  we  unite  ourselves  with 
them.   I  asked  the  question  through  one 
of  the  Apostles,  whether  this  order  was 
considered  among  the  secret  orders,  and 
I  received  the  word  that  to  all  intents 
and      purposes      it      was,    and  they 
should  be  discouraged.     I  am  thank- 
ful that  in  our    stake    thus  far  they 
have  been  discouraged.  I  am  thank- 
ful that  we  are  as  good  a  people  as 
we  are;  but  I  do  not  want  you  to  think 
that  we  are  ail  perfect  by  any  means. 
We  have  saloons   in   our  midst;  we 
have  apostates;  we  have  half-hearted 
"Mormons;"  we  have  those  who  are  op- 
posed to  God  and  His  work;  but  the 
great  majority  of  the  people  are  on  the 
Lord's  side,  and  are  desirous  of  serving 
Him  and  keeping  His  commandments. 
We  have  glorious  prospects  before  us 
in  the  stake  at  present.  We  have  a  new 
sugar  factory  in  course  of  erection;  we 
have  a  new  railroad  being  built  through 
our  valley;  we  have  the  prospect  of  an 
east  side  canal  from  the  Bear  river  can- 
yon, converting  into  farms,  orchards, 
and  beautiful  homes  some  23,000  acres 
on  the  east  side  of  the  river  that  are 
now  barren  and  almost  worthless.  The 
canal  is  partly  built,  but  whether  it  will 
be  finished  or  not  is  an  unsettled  ques- 
tion at  present.   With  these  conditions 
before  us  we  have  splendid  prospects  in 
the  Boxelder  Stake  of  Zion.    We  will 
have  plenty  of  work  for  idlers.  If  there 


are  any  families,  good  members  of  the 
Church,  that  will  come  along  to  the 
Boxelder  stake  and  help  raise  beets, 
build  the  railroad  and  make  a  canal, 
and  redeem  the  land  that  is  yet  open 
for  purchase  at  a  nominal  figure,  we 
will  welcome  them,  and  will  not  be  un- 
der the  necessity  of  going  to  Canada  or 
to  any  far-off  state  to  look  for  em- 
ployment. 

A  serious  problem  that  confronts  this 
people    today    is,    What    shall  we  do 
with  our  boys  and  girls?    It  is  true, 
many  of  them  are  going  to  the  colleges 
and  being  educated;  but  it  is  only  the 
brain  that  is  being  educated,  not  the 
hand.   They  are  not  getting  that  intel- 
ligence which  takes  the  crude  material 
and  makes  it  subservient  to  our  use,  to 
make  our  homes  comfortable,  and  to 
furnish  our  own  shoes,  hats  and  bon- 
nets and  other  things  that  we  send  our 
substance  for  to  other  places  and  thus 
build  them  up  instead  of  ourselves.  I 
feel  that  the  day  is  not  far'  distant 
when  the  principles  presented  by  Pres- 
ident Brigham  Young  to  this  Church 
will  be  more  fully  carried  out;  for  we 
have  a  man  at  our  head  today  who  is 
looking  after  the  interests   of  Zion, 
whose  pen  is  busy  daily  on  some  of  the 
most  timely  articles  that  we  have  read 
for  years.    Read  the  Juvenile  Instruc- 
tor, the  Improvement  Era,  and  the  Des- 
eret  News,  and  there  you  get  the  word 
of  the  Lord  from  His  servants,  who 
cannot  reach  us  all  by  their  voices.  I 
thank  God  for  these  men.   I  thank  God 
for    the  past    prophets — for  President 
Young,   the  mighty  Moses  of  latter 
times,  who  led  this  people  out  of  bond- 
age, and  planted  their  feet  in  these 
beautiful  valleys  of  the  mountains,  and 
located  our  cities  and  towns.    I  am 
proud  of  the  name  of  the  city  in  which 
I  live,  for  it  is  after  that  illustrious  man 
— the  city  of  Brigham.    I  rejoiced  in 
sitting  under  the  sound  of  his  voice.  I 
rejoiced  in  sitting  under  the  sound  of 
the  voice  of  President  John  Taylor,  his 
successor,  upon  whom  fell  his  mantle. 
I  rejoiced  in  the  teachings  of  that  meek 
and  lowly  Wilford,  who,  to  a  certain  ex- 
tent, made  peace  between  us  and  this 
nation    by    disbanding    the  People's 
Party  and  by  introducing,  through  the 
will  and  revelation  of  God,  the  mani- 
festo, which  stopped  in  a  measure  pro- 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ceedings  against  this  people.  When  he 
stood  in  that  sacred  edifice,  the  Temple, 
he  made  the  statement  that  now  the 
set  time  to  favor  Zion  had  come.  Has 
hot  that  prediction  been  literally  ful- 
filled? Just  as  literally  as  many  other 
predictions  that  have  been  uttered. 

The  remarks  of  Brother  Roberts  re- 
minded me  of  that  poetical  man,  Parley 
P.  Pratt,  who  wrote  The  Key  to  The- 
ology, and  who  prefaced  one  of  his 
chapters  with  these  lines: 

"Oh,  Mystic  Babel,  long  has  been  thy 
reign! 

What  direful  evils  follow  in  thy  train! 
The  veil  is  rent— thy  mystery  revealed, 
Angels  cry  woe!  and  God  thy  doom 

has  sealed. 
The  nations,  from  thy  long  and  dreary 

night, 

Are  waking  now  to  everlasting  light." 

I 

Those  words  rang  in  my  ears  as  Elder 
Roberts  called  our  attention  to  these 
modern  improvements.  Light  has  come 
into  the  world.  The  axe  has  been  laid 
at  the  root  of  all  false  doctrine.  That 
is  why  our  friends  the  ministers  are 
trembling.  That  is  why  the  churches 
are  fearful.  Light  and  truth  have 
come  into  the  world,  and  they  will 
prevail.  God.  has  established  this 
work;  it  is  not  ours.  He  has  given  us 
pastors  after  His  own  heart,  to  feed  us 
with  knowledge  and  understanding.  I 
am  thankful*  to  be  associated  with 
this  people.  This  people  are  my  people; 
their  God  is  my  God.  I  want  to  share 
with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
all  the  conditions  that  arise.  I  came 
here  many  years  ago,  and  have  grown 
up  under  the  light  and  intelligence  that 
has  come  from  God  through  His  ser- 
vants.   I  have  sat  for  over  35  years, 


with  very  few  exceptions,  under  the 
droppings  of  this  holy  sanctuary  while 
the  Prophets  of  the  Most  High  have  fed 
us  with  knowledge  and  understanding, 
and  I  hope  to  enjoy  that  privilege  many 
years  yet. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  to  fill  us  with  His  Spirit  and 
with  a  desire  to  heed  the  counsels  that 
are  given  to  us  from  those  that  pre- 
side. Then  Zion  will  prosper;  every 
weapon  that  is  formed  against  her  will 
be  broken  to  pieces;  for  this  is  our 
Father's  work,  and  we  are  told  that  He 
and  one  man  are  a  great  majority.  The 
power  and  influence  of  this  people  are 
being  felt  in  the  earth  today  as  never 
before,  and  we  are  only  commencing.  It 
is  only  the  dawn  of  a  brighter  day;  it 
is  but  the  commencement  of  the  work 
our  Father  has  established  in  the  earth, 
and  which  will  be  inspired  and  sustain- 
ed by  Him  from  this  time  henceforth 
until  the  kingdoms  of  this  world  be- 
come the  kingdoms  of  our  God  and  His 
Christ.  Ma-'  He  give  us  His  grace  and 
Spirit  sufficient  to  establish  His  right- 
eousness in  the  earth,  to  sanctify  our 
hearts  in  the  truth,  and  to  be  guided 
unto  His  praise,  that  in  the  sequel  of 
our  days,  like  many  who  have  address- 
ed us  here,  we  may  be  gathered  home  to 
our  Father  and  rejoice  in  His  salvation, 
is  my  prayer  through  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang: 

How  are  Thy  servants  blessed,  O  Lord, 

How  sure  is  their  defense! 
Eternal  wisdom  is  their  guide, 

Their  help,  Omnipotence. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Bish- 
op Wm.  B.  Preston. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


23 


SECOND  DAY. 


Sunday,  10  a.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam; 

Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 
each  nation, 
And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption 
will  come. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Abra- 
ham O.  Woodruff. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins: 

Come,  dearest  Lord,  descend  and  dwell, 
By  faith  and  love,  in  every  breast; 

Then  shall  'we  know,  and  taste,  and  feel 
The  joys  that  cannot  be  expressed. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Success  of  Missionaries— Prejudice  giving  way 
— Zion  progressing — In  relation  to  tithing— 
Proper  use  of  riches— Reckless  speculation 
should  be  avoided. 

I  rejoice  this  morning  in  seeing  such 
a  large  congregation  before  me.  Zion 
is  growing,  and  the  people  are  trying  to 
live  their  religion.  In  looking  back  up- 
on the  past  year  we  see  that  the  Lord 
has  been  with  His  work  and  blessed  His 
servants  in  their  labors.  The  mission- 
aries abroad  have  been  successful  in 
reaching  the  people  and  in  bringing 
many  into  the  Gospel  fold.  They  have 
met  some  opposition;  but  as  a  general 
thing  our  people  are  getting  better 
known  in  the  world.  In  Germany  some 
of  our  Elders  have  been  exiled,  and 
others  notified  to  leave;  but  the  courts 
have  taken  it  under  consideration,  and 
It  is  not  yet  decided  whether  our  Elders 
will  be  exiled  or  not.  When  the  officers 
are  asked  what  objection  they  have  to 
our  Elders,  they  say  they  have  noth- 
ing against  their  lives  or  conduct,  but 
they  do  not  like  their  religion,  and  they 
claim  the  right  to  say  who  shall  be 
their  guests.  They  have  this  right;  but 
I  believe  that  when  they  reall/  exam- 
ine the  fruits  of  "Mormonism"  and  see 
the  effect  it  has  upon  its  converts,  they 
will  not  be  opposed  to  our  people  being 
in  their  midst.   There  are  several  lands 


where  there  is  not  perfect  freedom  of 
conscience,  where  there  are  state  re- 
ligions, and  the  people  are  not  allowed 
to  worship  God  in  the  way  they  be- 
lieve to  be  right;  but  gradually  preju- 
dice and  intolerance  are  giving  way, 
and  the  most  intolerant  countries  are 
yielding  and  allowing  the  people  to  be- 
lieve as  they  please.  In  Norway  we 
are  not  recognized  as  dissenters;  still 
the  police  authorities  and  the  people 
generally  who  have  watched  our  course 
are  pleased  with  it.  The  police  of  Chris- 
tiania  say  that  they  have  less  trouble 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints  than  they 
have  with  others;  so  we  are  tolerated 
there.  For  many  years  we  have  had  a 
meetinghouse  of  our  own  in  that  city, 
which  has  been  a  great  help  to  us.  Last 
year  we  found  that  the  foundations  of 
the  house  were  giving  way,  and  we  had 
to  tear  the  house  down;  but  it  is  being 
rebuilt:  and  this  summer  we 
hope  that  a  better  structure 
will  be  dedicated,  and  that  our  people 
of  that  city  can  again  have  their  owti 
house  of  worship.  The  house  in  Co- 
penhagen is  giving  general  satisfaction, 
and  many  people  are  coming  to  our 
meetings.  There  is  a  project  on  foot 
for  the  building  of  a  meetinghouse  in 
Stockholm,  which  I  hope  will  soon  be- 
gin to  be  realized.  A  brother  in  that 
city  offered  a  spot  upon  which  to  build 
a  meetinghouse,  and  we  believe  that  the 
brethren  and  sisters  here,  especially 
from  the  Scandinavian  countries,  will 
help  to  build  such  a  house  there.  We 
have  seen  the  necessity  of  having  our 
own  meetinghouses  in  branches  where 
we  have  such  large  numbers  of  people 
in  the  Church.  Stockholm,  Copenhagen 
and  Christiania  each  number  several 
hundred  of  our  people,  and  it  will  be  a 
blessing  for  them  to  have  a  place  of 
their  own  to  worship  in.  I  believe  that 
this  would  also  be  well  in  cities  like 
Berlin  and  other  places,  where  our 
branches  are  growing  to  the  extent  they 
are. 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


We  are  pleased  with  the  reports  that 
come  in  from  the  different  missions. 
Our  Elders  are  laboring  zealously,  go- 
ing from  house  to  house,  spreading 
their  tracts,  preaching  in  the  streets 
and  halls  wherever  opportunities  afford. 

In  Zion  the  work  is  also  progressing. 
The  people  seem  more  united,  and  a 
greater  desire  to  attend  meetings  is  no- 
ticed. The  Presidency  have  visited 
many  of  the  stakes,  from  the  extreme 
north  down  to  St.  George,  during  the 
past  year,  and  have  found  that  the  peo- 
ple are  growing,  and  that  the  Spirit 
of  God  is  in  their  midst.  They  show  by 
their  works  that  they  are  trying  to  live 
the  lives  of  Saints.  The  tithing  during 
the  last  year  was  up  with  the  year  be- 
fore and  even  better.  We  commend  the 
Saints  for  their  fulfillment  of  this  duty. 
President  Smith  in  his  opening  address 
to  the  conference,  gave  us  some  good 
counsel.  He  asked  the  people  to  be  hon- 
est and  fulfill  their  duty  to  theLord  and 
to  their  neighbors.  I  am  pleased  to 
see  that  the  people  have  met  their 
obligations  to  the  Lord  as  well  as  they 
have  during  the  past  year.  There  is 
much  room,  however,  for  improvement. 
We  find  that  there  is  a  large  number, 
still  on  the  books,  of  non-tithepayers. 
This  should  not  be.  A  man  who  pro- 
fesses to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint  ought 
to  show  it  in  his  works.  If  he  does  not 
Pay  his  tithing,  he  shows  there  is  some- 
thing wrong  with  him.  He  cannot  have 
the  faith  which  he  professes  to  have; 
for  if  he  did  he  would  not  be  delinquent 
in  this  matter.  It  is  a  matter  between 
him  and  his  God.  There  is  no  compul- 
sion. But  a  man  who  has  covenanted 
with  the  Lord  to  do  His  will  cannot  feel 
that  he  is  honest  with  the  Lord  when  he 
refuses  to  obey  the  calls  He  makes  upon 
him.  This  law  of  tithing  is  not  a  new 
law.  It  is  as  old  as  the  days  of  Abra- 
ham, and  further  back  than  that;  but 
the  first  mention  we  have  of  it  in  the 
Bible  is  where  Abraham  paid  his  tith- 
ing. He  believed  in  it;  so  did  Jacob; 
and  so  did  Israel.  In  our  day  the  Lord 
has  again  revealed  that  law  to  His  peo- 
ple and  those  who  have  obeyed  it  have 
realized  the  truth  of  what  Bishop  Hunt- 
er used  to  say:  "Pay  your  tithing  and  be 
blessed." 

I  would  say  to  the  people,  be  honest 
one  to  another.    Do  not  run  in  debt. 


The  advice  of  the  president  yesterday 
was  certainly  wholesome.  The  Lord,  in 
one  of  His  revelations  given  very  early 
in  the  Church,  says: 

"Seek  not  for  riches,  but  for  wisdom, 
and,  behold,  the  mysteries  of  God  shall 
be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall 
you  be  made  rich;  behold  he  that  hath 
eternal  life  is  rich." 

The  riches  of  eternal  life  we  ought  to 
seek,  not  the  riches  of  the  world.  There 
is  a  raging  thirst  for  riches  in  this 
land.  The  love  of  money  is  growing, 
even  in  our  midst.  We  do  not  look  up- 
on wealth  in  itself  as  a  curse.  We  be- 
lieve that  those  who  can  handle  means 
rightly  can  do  much  to  bless  their  fel- 
lows. But  he  who  is  ruled  by  the  love 
of  money  is  tempted  to  commit  sin. 
The  love  of  money  is  the  root  of  all 
evil.  There  is  hardly  a  commandment 
but  is  violated  through  this  seeking  for 
riches.  I  think,  therefore,  that  it  is  time- 
ly advice  to  our  people  to  guard  against 
the  growing  tendency  to  speculation, 
and  making  investments  when  they 
have  not  the  means  wherewith  to  do 
it.  It  is  not  safe.  We  have  prosper- 
ous times  at  present.  We  hope  they 
may  continue.  But  it  would  be  very 
unwise  to  build  upon  the  future,  and 
not  stand  on  a  firm  foundation  in  re- 
gard to  financial  matters.  If  any  one 
wants  to  make  investments,  let  him 
make  them  with  his  own  means;  not 
be  too  hopeful  and  borrow  means  be- 
yond his  ability  to  pay.  If  he  makes 
investment  with  his  own  means  and 
fails,  he  can  still  be  an  honest  man; 
but  if  he  borrow  money  of  his  neighbor 
that  he  is  not  able  to  pay,  he  may  cause 
the  financial  ruin  of  his  benefactor  who 
trusted  him.  Now,  brethren  and  sisters, 
let  us  not  let  the  spirit  of  speculation 
take  hold  of  us;  for  past  experience 
shows  that  inflation  is  followed  by  de- 
pression, and  many  of  those  who  are 
thought  to  be  rich  and  prosperous, 
when  such  times  come,  may  not  be  able 
to  meet  their  honest  debts.  I  would 
advise  our  people  to  guard  against  this 
thirst  for  riches,  this  wanting  to  get 
rich  quickly.  The  old  way  of  earning 
by  our  labor  is  the  best  way  to  be- 
come rich.  It  is  true,  we  see  some  who 
engage  in  mining  quickly  realize  for- 
tunes; but  we  do  not  think  of  the  hun- 
dreds and  thousands  who  do  not  sue- 


ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 


25 


ceed.  We  And  some  that  invest  in  .cer- 
tain enterprises  that  pay  well,  and  we 
think  that  any  enterprise  which  is 
started  will  do  as  well.  This,  we  can 
certainly  say,  will  not  be,  the  case. 
There  are  always  some  enterprises  that 
are  really  needed  and  may  pay  their 
projectors,  but  in  the  common  run  of 
business  great  returns  cannot  be  ex- 
pected. So  let  us  stay  on  solid  ground, 
and  not  venture  too  far  out.  The  love 
of  money  is  very  marked  in  the  world. 
The  question  is  not,  how  much  good 
will  such  an  enterprise  do?  but  will  it 
pay?  Now,  even  in  business  that  should 
not  always  be  the  predominant  motive. 
Many  enterprises  that  have  been  start- 
ed in  our  midst,  and  that  have  done  a 
great  deal  of  good,  have  not  paid  great 
dividends  to  the  shareholders.  Our  Pro- 
vo  Woolen  factory  has  been  a  great 
,  blessing  to  the  State;  yet  the  owners 
have  not  realized  great  benefit  from  the 
investment.  When  it  was  first  built, 
money  was  scarce  in  the  state,  and  we 
used  to  turn  our  produce  there  and  make 
exchange  for  woollen  goods.  Then  we 
valued  the  institution  perhaps  more 
than  we  do  now.  I  am  glad  to  see  that 
that  institution  is  getting  on  a  paying- 
basis.  We  could  mention  several  others 
that  have  been  projected  by  our  lead- 
ers that  have  not  brought  great  finan- 
cial returns  to  the  owners.  The  ques- 
tion, how  much  good  can  we  do  with 
our  means?  should  be  before  the  ques- 
tion, how  can  we  double  our  means? 
The  Lord  says,  seek  not  for  riches,  but 
for  wisdom.  Let  that  be  our  seeking." 
"Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and 
His  righteousness,  and  all  other  things 
shall  be  added  unto  you,"  is  the  prom- 
ise. He  that  hath  eternal  life  is  rich, 
indeed,  says  the  Lord.  Let  us  seek  for 
eternal  life,  and  while  we  live  here 
make  our  lives  as  useful  as  possible, 
and  do  what  we  can  for  the  upbuilding 
of  the  kingdom  of  God  upon  the  earth. 
God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 
Need  of  manual  training  in  schools— Incidental 
reference  to  athletics  — New  methods  of 
teaching  in  Sunday  Schools. 

It  *was  with  more  than  ordinary  in- 
terest and  pleasure,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  I  listened  to  the  remarks 
of  President  Smith  yesterday  morning, 


perhaps  for  the  reason  that  I  felt  for 
some  time  the  great  necessity  of  in- 
structions being  given  on  many  of  the 
points  on  which  he  touched.  One  thing 
particularly  impressed  me,  and  that 
was  the  necessity  of  more  encourage- 
ment being  given  to  the  teaching  of 
manual  training  in  our  schools.  I  well 
remember  when  President  Brigham 
Young  established  our  Church  schools, 
how  strong  was  his  wish  that  these 
things  should  be  encouraged  and  this 
department  taught  in  the  institutions 
of  which  he  then  laid  the  foundation; 
and  I  have  always  regretted  that  more 
attention  has  not  been  given  to  this  de- 
partment in  these  schools.  We  all  know 
what  a  very  practical  man  President 
Young  was;  how  essential  he  felt  it  was 
that  we  as  a  people  should  be  self-sus- 
taining. In  his  day  our  territory  was 
full  of  the  best  of  mechanics,  who  had 
gathered  from  various  portions  of  the 
earth.  It  -was  well  known  that  in  no 
part  of  the  United  States  were  there 
better  handicraftsmen,  and  artisans 
than  in  Utah.  The  work  done  in  those 
times  still  stands  as  a  monument  of 
how  well  they  could  accomplish  their 
purposes.  But  today,  unfortunately,  it 
is  not  altogether  so.  Our  rising  genera- 
tion, born  in  the  midst  of  these  valleys, 
apparently  does  not  turn  naturally  in 
this  direction.  Although  we  have  in- 
creased in  numbers,  we  have  not  devel- 
oped in  these  conditions;  in  fact,  nve  are 
not  so  well  off  as  we  were  a  quarter  of 
a  century  ago  or  more.  One  remedy  for 
this  evil  is  that  those  who  direct  the 
feelings  and  thoughts  of  this  people 
should  impress  upon  the  youth  the  ne- 
cessity of  learning  trades,  by  which  the 
community  can  be  built  up,  and  not  so 
many  turn  in  the  direction  of  what  are 
called  the  learned  professions.  We  can- 
not have  a  prosperous  community  if  it 
is  overweighted  and  top-heavy  with  so 
many  inclined  in  one  direction,  and  the 
arts  and  industries  which  lie  at  the 
foundation  of  all  progressive  and  suc- 
cessful communities  are  neglected  or 
trifled  with.  Therefore,  feeling  the  ne- 
cessity of  our  people  being  impressed 
with  these  truths,  I  was  exceedingly 
pleased  to  hear  our  President  talk  as 
he  did  yesterday  morning.  I  will  ac- 
knowledge that  I  have  felt  that  some  of 
our  institutions  of  learning  paid  more 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


attention  to  athletics— to  basketball  and 
such  games— and  thought  more  of  the 
credit  they  received  by  overcoming 
their  competitors  in  that  line,  than  they 
did  of  training  the  young  men  placed  in 
their  care  in  those  things  that  will 
make  them  most  useful.  Of  course,  we 
are  told  that  athletics  are  nec- 
essary. I  admit  that.  But 
the  argument  appears  to  me  to 
be  essentially  weak  when  applied 
to  ball  games  and  games  of  a  like  des- 
cription, when  we  recollect  that  those 
engaged  in  them  are  the  strongest,  the 
healthiest  and  the  best  developed  stu- 
dents in  the  institution,  and  that  those 
who  are  not  so  well  developed,  and  who 
need  the  training  to  strengthen  them,  if 
any  do,  are  the  ones  that  stand  around, 
applaud,  clap  their  hands  and  yell 
themselves  hoarse  when  their  represen- 
tatives play  a  good  game,  or  secure  a 
victory.  I  believe,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  in  developing  the  muscles 
and  the  vitality  of  our  people  a  little 
change  from  athletics  to  manual  train- 
ing will  be  a  great  advantage  to  this 
-community. 

As  a  number  of  the  presiuents  of 
stakes  have  reported  their  stakes,  I 
wish  to  say  a  few  words  with  regard 
to  our  Sunday  schools,  as  I  am  one  of 
the  assistants  to  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  in  the  general  superintendency. 
I  wish  to  report  that  as  a  general  thing 
the  schools  are  progressing  satisfactor- 
ily. During  the  past  year  we  have 
made  a  marked  change  in  our  methods 
and  in  the  conduct  of  our  schools  by 
introducing  a  uniform  plan  of  study  in 
all  the  schools,  so  that  any  pupil  going 
from  one  school  to  another  can  continue 
in  the  new  school  the  sam£  series  of 
lessons  that  he  studied  .in  the  school 
which  he  has  just  left.  There  has 
been  a  complaint  that  in  our  Sunday 
schools  some  of  the  children  have  re- 
ceived a  one-sided  education,  having 
studied  but  from  one  or  two  of  our 
sacred  books  during  the  whole  time 
they  have  been  in  school.  Some  have 
been  confined  to  the  Bible,  others  to  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  others  to  Church  his 
tory,  others  to  the  Articles  of  Faith. 
This  has  not  been  intentional,  but  it 
has  been  for  the  want  of  a  detailed, 
progressive  outline  of,  study.  This  the 
•General  Board  has  endeavored  to  ob- 
viate by    the  "Outlines"    which  have 


lately  been  published.  At  this  time 
any  child  who  continues  in  the  Sunday 
school  through  the  entire  course  will 
have  had  every  phase  of  religious,  his- 
tory and  doctrine  desirable  to  be 
learned  presented  to  him  by  the  time 
he  has  passed  through  the  various  de- 
partments. He  will  commence  with  the 
kindergarten,  where  he  will  be  taught 
in  the  story  form;  then  up  through  the 
primary,  the  intermediates  and  the  the- 
ological, until  he  will  become  acquaint- 
ed with  the  history  of  the  Church,  with 
the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel,  with  the 
Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  and  their  contents.  While  no 
book,  sacred  though  it  be,  is  made  the 
especial  object  of  study,  that  which  is 
taught  in  all  the  departments  is  intend- 
ed to  increase  the  faith  of  the  child  in 
the  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God  and  in 
love  for  Him.  When  the  pupil  has 
passed  through  all  the  departments  he 
will  go  out  with  a  well-rounded  under- 
standing of  the  dealings  of  the  Lord 
with  His  people  in  this  and  in  past  dis- 
pensations. This  has  been  our  object 
in  preparing  the  "Outlines;"  and 
though  occasionally  we  hear  a  word  of 
fault  found  that  we  are  adhering  too 
closely  to  the  mere  historical  record, 
yet  I  wish  to  say,  as  one  of  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  Sunday  schools,  that 
that  is  not  our  intention.  Our  intention 
is,  first,  and  before  all  other  things,  to 
implant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children 
a  love  for  God  and  for  Hie  holy  cause, 
a  reverence  for  all  sacred  things,  and 
to  develop  within  them  a  testimony  of 
the  truth  of  the  great  work  of  the  lat- 
ter days.  I  would  exhort  the  teachers 
in  this  great  cause  to  remember  that 
all  other  considerations  are  secondary. 
While  we  give  the  historical  portion  a 
prominent  place,  yet  that  is  simply  in- 
tended to  lead  the  mind  and  feelings  of 
the  child  in  the  direction  of  the  great 
truths  that  God  has  revealed,  and  we 
desire  to  make  all  teaching  subservient 
to  this  end  and  intent. 

I  cannot  this  morning  give  you  any 
figures  with  regard  to  the  increase  of 
our  schools,  or  of  our  attendance,  be- 
cause we  have  lacked  some  of  the  sta- 
tistical- reports.  And  this  teaches  us 
a  lesson  of  how  dependent  the  whole 
people  are  upon  individual  effort.  If 
the  lack  of  one  report  causes  the  whole 


ELDER  R.  G.  MILLER. 


27 


report  of  the  Church  or  of  the  schools 
to  be  incomplete,  inaccurate  and  unre- 
liable, it  shows  how  necessary  it  is  that 
those  who  have  the  clerical  work  of  the 
Church  to  do,  whether  in  the  wards  and 
stakes  or  in  the  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions, should  be  correct  and  prompt;  for 
statistics  of  any  kind,  if  not  exact  and 
truthful,  are  worse  than  worthless,  be- 
cause they  are  misleading,  and  they 
give  wrong  ideas  regarding  existing 
conditions  and  what  is  being  done.  But 
I  find— as  I  have  much  to  do  with 
these  things  in  my  daily  duties— that 
the  reports  which  are  sent  in,  both  by 
-the  school  officers  and  the  stake  offi- 
cers, often  come  in  a  most  undesirable 
condition.  "We  receive  reports  occasion- 
ally that  are  unsigned,  undated,  and 
unnamed,  and  we  have  to  guess  whence 
they  come  from  the  little  information 
that  is  recorded.  Think  of  a  report 
without  any  signature,  without  any 
date,  without  any  name,  and  you  can 
see  how  difficult  it  is  to  make  up  gen- 
eral reports.  Then  they  are  occasion- 
ally sent  -in  just  a  day  or  two  before 
the  general  report  is  required,  when 
they  ought  to  be  in  at  least  a  month 
before,  and  two  months  would  be  bet- 
ter, so  that  they  could  be  properly  tab  - 
ulated, examined,  and  the  results  un- 
derstood. 

Altogether,  as  far  as  the  Sunday 
schools  are  concerned,  we  feel  that  we 
have  great  cause  for  encouragement, 
and  with  succeeding  years  they  are  do- 
ing more  and  more  good  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  righteousness  and  dn  the 
confirming  of  the  faith  of  God's  people. 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 
r 

! 

ELDER  R.  G.  MILLER. 
(President  of  Emery  Stake.) 

"While  sitting  here  I  was  reminded 
of  what  President  J.  Golden  Kimball 
said  at  one  of  our  conferences.  He 
yaid:  "You  brethren  around  here  want 
tc  look  out;  lightning  is  going  to  strike, 
and  you  can't  tell  just  where."  1  feel 
like  it  had  struck  this  morning.  In 
standing  before  this  vast  congregation 
I  feel  very  weak;  but  I  trust  I  may  be 
able  to  speak  for  a  few  minutes  and  re- 
port the  Emery  Stake,  over  which  I 
nave  been  called  to  preside.  It  pleases 
me  very  much  to  hear  the  brethren  tell 


of  their  stakes.  It  is  a  testimony  to 
me  that  we  are  being  blessed  in  the 
Emery  Stake  of  Zion;  for  a  similar  re- 
port to  those  given  might  be  made  of 
the  Emery  stake.  It  lies  about  south- 
east from  here,  and  east  of  the  Sanpete 
s+ake.  It  is  comprised  of  two  counties- 
Carbon  and  Emery — and  is  about  70 
miles  east  and  west  and  90  miles  north 
and  south.  We  have  13  wards,  and 
they  are  scattered  over  this  large  area 
of  country.  We  have  some  disadvant- 
ages compared  with  other  stakes.  As 
a  consequence,  we  are  probably  not 
making  the  progress  that  we  should. 
But  the  people  generally  are  trying  to 
do  their  duty  and  to  serve  God,  though 
there  is  considerable  room  for  improve- 
ment. We  have  all  the  modern  con- 
veniences of  civilized  (?)  society;  we 
have  saloons,  and  organizations  of  most 
every  kind.  I  am,  however,  happy  to 
say  that  very  few  of  our  people  have 
joined  the  organizations  outside  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  The  saloons,  with  perhaps  two 
exceptions,  are  run  by  people  not  of  our 
faith;  and  in  a  short  time  we  hope  to 
bp  able  to  say  that  no  one  runs  a  sa- 
loon in  our  stake  who  claims  to  be  a 
member  of  the  Church.  If  the  Bishops 
will  do  their  duty,  there  will  be  no 
saloons  run  by  our  people. 

There  are  great  resources  in  our  part 
of  the  country,  and  only  about  one  cor- 
ner of  it  has  yet  been  touched.  Prom 
the  name  of  one  of  our  counties — Car- 
bon— you  will  see  that  we  have  coal 
there.  The  statistics  of  the  state  show 
that  we  have  more  coal  in  that  region 
than  there  is  in  any  other  part  of  the 
west.  We  hope  that  this  will  be  de- 
veloped, and  that  the  world  may  be 
supplied  from  the  abundance  of  coal 
to  be  found  there.  There  is  coal  all 
along  the  north  boundary  of  our  stake, 
and  on  the  west  also.  It  is  full  of  coal, 
and  we  hope  the  day  is  not  far 
distant  when  it  will  be  produced  and 
marketed.  We  have  a  fine  agricultur- 
al district  also.  There  is  a  movement 
now  on  foot  whereby  many  thousands 
of  acres  will  be  brought  under  culti- 
vation; and  we  invite  the  Saints  who 
are  looking  for  homes  to  cast  their  eyes 
on  Emery  stake.  The  people  of  Juab 
and  Sanpete  counties  have  had  a  move- 
ment on  foot  for  some  time  to  store 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


water  in  the  mountains  and  convey  it. 
into  their  counties;  but  they  have  seen 
a  more  feasible  way  to  get  rid  of  this 
water,  and  they  have  kindly  consented 
to  come  into  Carbon  county.  We  ask 
you  brethren  and  . sisters  who  are  look- 
ing for  homes  to  join  with  us,  and  we 
will  welcome  you  there. 

1  feel  well  in  the  position  to  whiev' 
I  have  been  called.  I  desire  to  do  my 
duty.  My  great  desire  is  to  press  for- 
ward and  assist  the  people  and  help 
build  up  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  have 
been  blessed  with  good  companions.  My 
counselors  are  sturdy,  thrifty  men — 
John  H.  Pace  and  Henry  G.  Mathis.  We 
work  together  in  unity.  I  know  thi- 
wwrk  is  true.  It  is  the  work  of  God.  I 
have  known  this  from  my  infancy.  It 
seems  as  if  I  was  born  with  a  testimony 
of  the  Gospel.  My  parents  were  among 
the  early  settlers  of  this  country,  and 
went  through  all  the  hardships  and 
privations;  and  it  seems  to  have  been 
implanted  in  my  nature  that  this  is 
the  work  of  God. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
may  continue  with  us  during  this  con- 
ference, that  we  may  go  home  filled 
with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  more 
determined  to  serve  Him  and  keep  His 
commandments;  which  I  do  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  W.  C.  PARKINSON 
(President  of  Hyrum  Stake). 

I  have  truly  rejoiced,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  in  the  timely  and  practical 
instructions  that  have  been  given  at 
this  conference.  I  have  enjoyed  the 
spirit  that  has  rested  upon  those  who 
have  spoken  to  us.  In  reporting  the 
Hyrum  Stake  of  Zion  I  will  say,  it  is 
a  newly-organized  stake.  It  was  or- 
ganized two  years  ago  on  the  30th  of 
April.  It  comprises  the  south  end  of 
Cache  valley,  with  ten  wards  and  about 
5,700  Saints.  I  believe  the  spiritual 
condition  of  the  people  there  has  im- 
proved of  late.  I  think  it  was  an  ex- 
cellent thing  to  divide  the  old  stake, 
make  it  smaller,  and  place  more  active 
men  in  the  field  to  look  after  the  people 
and  to  encourage  them  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  "We  have  divided  one  of  the 
wards  In  our  stake,  and  we  believe  it 
is  an  excellent  thing.    It  has  brought 


about  good  results.  We  now  have  three 
wards  where  we  had  one,  and  three 
Bishops  and  three  sets  of  officers  where 
we  only  had  one.  We  find  that  the 
people  are  better  looked  after,  and 
spiritual  activity  is  growing.  We  have 
better  attendance  at  our  meetings.  The 
presidency  of  the  stake  are  united;  and 
have  a  good  deal  of  pleasure  in  their 
labors.  We  have  an  excellent  High 
Council,  and  I  think  I  am  safe  in  say- 
ing that  evejry  member  of  that  body  is 
a  good,  faithful,  consistent  Latter-day 
Saint.  They  are  good  tithepayers.they 
observe  the  Sabbath  day,  they  observe 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  they  are  ac- 
tive in  the  ministry.  We  meet  to- 
gether once  a  month,  and  we  always 
have  a  splendid  attendance.  Usually 
nearly  all  the  members  are  present, 
both  regular  members  and  alternates. 
The  presidency  are  supposed  to  meet 
once  a  week.  We  do  not  always  do 
this,  but  we  do  it  as  often  as  we  can 
find  it  convenient  and  practicable.  In 
our  meetings  we  have  a  great  deal  of 
pleasure,  and,  I  believe,  have  enjoyed 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  We  take  under 
consideration  matters  pertaining  to  the 
general  interest  and  welfare  of  our  peo- 
ple. Our  wards  are  close  together.  We 
only  cover  a  small  area  of  country — 
about  ten  miles  to  our  farthest  ward; 
so  that  our  stake  is  very  compact,  and. 
I  think,  a  model  stake.  We  have  some 
splendid  people  in  that  part  of  the 
country — perhaps  as  good  as  can  be 
found  in  Israel;  and  we  have  enough 
of  the  other  element  to  keep  those  who 
are  willing  to  work  busily  engaged. 
There  is  plenty  of  opportunity  for  them 
to  labor  in  the  ministry.  We  only  have 
two  saloons  in  our  midst — and  that  is 
two  more  than  we  would  like  to  have. 
Our  tithing  has  increased  between  $5,- 

000  and  $6,000  the  last  year.  Our  Priest- 
hood meetings  are  very  well  attended. 
We  have  ten  very  good,  active  Bishops. 

1  can  say  for  all  our  Bishops  that  they 
are  good,  intelligent  men,  who  thor- 
oughly understand  the  Gospel  and  the 
duties  of  their  calling.  They  are  quali- 
fied and  able  to  look  after  their  wards, 
and  I  believe  they  are  giving  the  people 
good  attention.  Our  stake  officers,  as 
far  as  I  have  learned,  are  all  good, 
faithful  people,  and  our  organizations 
are  all  complete.      Although  it  is  a 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  BASSETT. 


29 


■new  stake,  we  have  the  organizations 
all  complete,  both  in  the  wards  and  in 
the  stake.  There  is  a  meeting  of  the 
Priesthood  every  month,  and  all  stake 
officers  have  their  regular  monthly 
meetings,  at  which  they  devise  means 
and  plans  for  the  best  interest  and 
welfare  of  the  various  organizations. 
While  we  are  located  in  one  of  the  most 
fertile-  and  prosperous  valleys  in  the 
Rocky  Mountains,  still  we  always  have 
the  poor  with  us.  "We  have  plenty  to 
consume  the  fast  offerings  and  the 
funds  placed  at  the  disposal  of  the 
Bishops,  though  the  people  are  increas- 
ing in  the  payment  of  their  fast  offer- 
ings, and  we  hope  some  time  in  the 
near  future  that  we  will  be  able  to  take 
good  care  of  all  the  poor  in  our  part 
of  the  Lord's  vineyard  without  calling 
upon  the  Church  for  assistance.  We 
are  working  to  that  end. 

I  do  not  know  that  I  have  anything 
further  to  say,  more  than  that  I  rejoice 
in  the  principles  of  the  Gospel.  I  have 
a  testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the  great 
work  of  the  latter  days.  I  have  had 
this  testimony  for  many  years.  I  can 
hardly  remember  the  time  when  I  did 
not  look  upon  the  Apostles  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  and  the  men  who  stood 
in  prominent  Dositions  in  this  Church 
with  the  greatest  degree  of  reverence. 
I  have  looked  upon  those  who  have  pre- 
sided over  me  all  the  days  of  my  life 
with  perhaps  as  much  consideration 
almost  as  I  have  my  own  parents.  I 
have  learned  to  love  the  servants  of 
God,  and  I  am  glad  to  be  associated 
with  them.  I  am  glad  to  attend  these 
conferences,  and  I  always  rejoice  in 
listening  to  the  instructions  that  are 
imparted.  The  last  conference  that 
we  held  in  the  Hyrum  Stake  of  Zion,  I 
believe,  was  the  best  we  have  had.  It 
was  more  liberally  attended  than  any 
previous  conference.  Our  house  was  so 
full  that  we  had  to  have  an  overflow 
me cting,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was 
poured  out  upon  us  in  abundance.  We 
felt  that  the  Lord  had  kindly  recog- 
nized our  efforts,  and  made  us  to  re- 
joice. Although  the  roads  were  ex- 
ceedingly bad,  the  people  turned  out 
in  great  numbers,  and  we  had  a  spir- 
itual feast. 


May  the  Lord  bless  us,  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  preserve  us  in  the  truth. 
T  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  BASSETT. 
(President  of  Fremont  Stake.) 

I  am  very     gratified,  my  beloved 
brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  position 
that  I  now  occupy  in  standing  before 
you  as  a  representative  of  the  Fremont 
Stake  of  Zion.     Our  Stake  is  located 
about  two  hundred  miles  north  of  this 
city.     It  is  in  the  extreme  northeast 
corner  of  what  is  usually  termedSouth- 
eastern  Idaho.    It  also  extends  across 
the  continental  divide  into  the  south- 
ern borders  of  Montana,  the  branch  of 
Lima  in  that  State  of  the  Union  being 
a  part  of  the  Fremont  stake.    In  the 
state  of  Idaho  there  are  eighteen  wards 
located  in  the  Fremont  stake.  The  area 
of  our  stake  is  approximately  70  miles 
square,  embracing  in  the  neighborhood 
of  5,000  square  miles.   We  have  a  popu- 
lation of  about  6,000  Latter-day  Saints. 
All  of  the  organizations  of  our  stake  are 
complete.    Like  the  rest  of  my  breth- 
ren who  have  reported,  I  feel  proud  to 
be  associated  with  those    who  have 
charge  of  the  various  organizations  in 
our  stake.    I  am  especially  pleased  to 
be  associated  with  my  two  counselors, 
whom  I  have  learned  to  love  as  men  of 
God,  and  who  are  heart  and  hand  with 
me  in  every  enterprise  that  we  esteem 
for  the  good  and  welfare  of  our  people. 
I  do  not  think  that  there  is  a  better 
High  Council  throughout  the  length  and 
breadth  of  the  Church  than  we  have  in 
the  Fremont  stake  of  Zion.    We  hold 
meetings  regularly  once  a  month,  and 
have  a  splendid  attendance.  There  is  no 
proposition    ever  brought    before  our 
people  until  the  entire  High  Council  are 
apprised  of  it  and  are  unanimous  in  fa- 
vor of  it.   We  have  two  councils  of  Sev- 
enty,    whose      jurisdiction  extends 
throughout  our  stake  and  one  of  the  ad- 
joining stakes.    They  are  doing  a  very 
good  work.     We    have    four  Elders' 
quorums,  actively  engaged  in  their  la- 
bors.   The  superintendency  of  the  Sun- 
day schools  of  the  stake  are  most  ac- 
tive men,  and  the  Union  Board  asso- 
ciated with  them  are  exemplary  mem- 
bers of  the  Church.   They  meet  regular- 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ly  bi-weekly,  and  arrange  for  their  la- 
bors among-  the  various  Sunday  schools 
of  the  stake.  So  does  also  the  stake 
board  of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Im- 
provement Associations,  and  the  Stake 
board  of  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association,  meet  bi-weekly, 
and  I  can  testify  that  they  are  men  and 
women  of  God  and  doing  a  noble  work 
among  our  young  people  in  that  vicin- 
ity. "We  have  not  met  with  the  success 
in  our  religion  class  work  that  I  would 
like  to  see;  but  we  hope  to  bring  that 
institution  to  the  front  as  soon  as  we 
possibly  can.  With  this  exception,  all 
the  auxiliary  organizations  and  the 
quorums  of  that  stake  are  in  excellent 
condition. 

Financially  we  are  more  blessed  and 
prospered  than  we  have  ever  been  be- 
fore, although  we  have  no  need  what- 
ever to  complain  of  the  blessings  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  that  have  attended 
us  in  that  section  of  the  country.  It 
seems  but  yesterday  that  we  settled  on 
that  then  sagebrush  plain,  and  located 
our  tents  on  the  banks  of  the  South  Te- 
ton river,  under  the  direction  of  Presi- 
dent Thomas  E.  Ricks,  who  was  then 
Bishop  Ricks,  and  he  was  under  the 
jurisdiction  of  Presiding  Bishop  Wil- 
liam B.  Preston,  who  was  then  the 
President  of  the  Cache  stake  of  Zion. 
All  that  extent  of  country  which  now 
comprises  the  Fremont  stake,  the  Bing- 
ham stake,  the  Teton  stake,  and  a  part 
of  the  Pocatello  stake,  was  then  known 
as  the  Bannock  ward  of  the  Cache 
stake  of  Zion.  The  number  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  that  locality  at  that  time 
did  not  exceed  perhaps  200  souls.  To- 
day in  these  various  stakes  our  people 
number  approximately  20,000. 

What  was  then  the  Bannock  ward  of 
the  Cache  stake  of  Zion  is  now  known 
as  the  Ricks  Academy  district,  named 
in  honor  of  our  late  highly  esteemed 
and  lamented  president,  Thomas  E. 
Ricks.  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  this 
institution  of  learning  was  organized 
by  him  under  the  direction  of 
President  Wilford  Woodruff,  fif- 
teen years  ago  on  the  12th 
of  November  next.  From  that  time  un- 
to the  present,  although  it  has  had 
many  difficulties  to  encounter,  it  has 
lived    and    increased    its  usefulness 


among  our  young  people.  This  year  we 
have  an  attendance  in  that  institution 
of  265;  and  I  can  tell  you,  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  feel  extremely  proud  of  them, 
and  of  the  noble  work  they  are  doing, 
with  the  faculty  of  the  institution,  un- 
der the  able  leadership  of  Brother  Ezra 
Christianson.  The  work  that  they  have 
been  doing  this  winter  is  indeed  excel- 
lent. In  this  institution  there  have  teen 
40  young  men,  called  from  these  differ- 
ent stakes, to  take  the  missionary  course, 
and  this  spring  nearly  all  of  them  have 
been  called  to  take  missions  to  various 
parts  of  the  earth.  These  young  men 
are  scattered  abroad  today,  others  are 
going,  and  the  benefits  of  this  institu- 
tion are  so  widespread  that  We  cannot 
estimate  the  length  and  breadth  there- 
of. On  the  15th  of  November  next— the 
fifteenth  birthday  of  this  institution — 
we  expect  to  have  completed  a  $50,000- 
structure  as  a  home  for  it.  This  year 
Fremont  stake  has  contributed  upwards 
of  $12,000  for  the  erection  of  this  build- 
ing, and  by  doing  a  similar  work  during 
the  coming  season  we  hope  to  have  it 
ready  for  occupancy  on  the  12th  of  No- 
vember. 

As  far  as  the  tithes  of  our  people  are 
concerned,  we  feel  that  we  have  no 
complaints  whatever  to  offer.  In  con- 
nection with  what  we  have  done  to- 
wards the  erection  of  the  academy,  our 
tithes  have  increased  nearly  $4,000  dur- 
ing the  year  1902. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  as  I  have 
borne  it  time  and  time  again,  that  this 
is  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  in 
which  •we  are  engaged.  Notwithstand- 
ing all  of  the  opposition  that  has  been 
brought  to  bear  against  it  during  the 
73  years  of  its  existence,  look  at  it  to- 
day, scattered  throughout  the  length 
and  breadth  of  these  mountain  valleys, 
our  young  men  in  almost  every  nation 
under  heaven  promulgating  the  truths 
of  the  Gospel,  and  who  is  there  that 
cannot  say  with  me  this  morning  that 
were  it  not  for  the  overruling  power 
of  Omnipotence  this  work  would  have 
gone  down;  but  today  we  find  it  is  the 
work  of  God,  and  the  people  are  grow, 
ing  and  increasing  upon  the  right 
hand  and  upon  the  left.  We  have  in 
our  stake,  as  some  of  the  other  brethren 
have  said,  all  of  the  modern  improve- 
ments (?).    Twenty  years  ago  it  was  a 


ELDER  J.  G.  KIMBALL. 


31 


sagebrush  plain;  today  we  have  up- 
wards of  50  wards  in  that  part  of  the 
country,  we  have  a  branch  railroad,  we 
have  the  electric  lines,  we  have  tele- 
phone communication,  and  everything 
is  prosperous  with  us,  financially  and 
temporally.  I  feel  to  thank  God  for  It; 
but  above  all  things  I  thank  Him  for  a 
standing  in  the  Church  of  God.  I  bear 
my  testimony  to  you  of  its  truthfulness. 
Above  all  things,  let  us  be  true  to  the 
covenants  that  we  have  made,  and  not 
one  of  us  be  a  traitor.  I  am  extremely 
thankful  for  the  very  timely  sugges- 
tions that  have  been  offered  by  our 
Presidency  during  this  conference  with 
regard  to  the  importance  of  teaching 
our  young  people  the  necessity  of  man- 
ual work.  I  omitted  to  state  that  in  our 
institution  of  learning  which  I  have 
been  speaking  of  we  have  made  prepar- 
ations already  to  have  a  class  in  man- 
ual training  the  coming  winter,  as  also 
a  class  in  domestic  science.  "We  are 
scattered  over  a  very  large  tract  of 
country,  and  I  only  regret  that  there 
are  not  more  of  our  young  people  who 
*  are  looking  for  homes,  that  they  may 
come  and  help  us  carry  our  burdens. 
We  have  had  bridges  to  build,  school- 
houses  to  build,  churches  to  build,  roads 
to  maintain,  and  everything  that  is  nec- 
essary in  the  development  of  a  new 
country.  Our  people  have  taken  up 
large  farms;  they  are  too  large,  and  in 
too  many  cases  they  have  been  under 
the  necessity  of  mortgaging  them,  and 
I  am  sorry  to  say  that  more  than  50  per 
cent  of  the  farms  in  our  stake  today  are 
mortgaged.  Our  people  are  carrying 
too  heavy  a  load,  and  we  would  very 
dearly  like  to  see  a  host  of  our  young 
people  come  into  that  country  and  buy 
out  one-half  or  two-thirds  of  the  farms 
we  own,  and  help  us  to  lift  our  mort- 
gages and  maintain  those  things  that 
are  necessary  in  the  colonization  of  a 
country.  "We  invite  you  there;  but  we 
do  not  want  to  go  contrary  to  the 
counsel  of  the  First  Presidency  in  ask- 
ing our  young  people  to  scatter  out  too 
far.  However,  we  will  always  welcome 
you  to  come  and  share  our  burdens,  be- 
cause we  want  to  observe  the  counsel 
of  the  First  Presidency  and  get  out  of 
debt  as  soon  as  we  can.  "We  do  not 
•want,  though,  to  sell  our  farms  to 
strangers,  but  we  would  like  to  sell  to 
our  own  people. 


God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters. 
May  His  Spirit  attend  this  people 
throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of 
the  world.  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  J.  G.  KIMBALL. 

How  the  BiMe  can  be  understood— Results  of 
sacred  books— How  to  popularize  the  Church 
—Friends  in  the  world— Relating  to  Seven- 
ties—Prophetic promise  and  fulfillment. 

The  few  moments  I  occupy  I  very 
much  desire  to  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord.  I  realize  that  the  ways  of  the 
Lord  are  not  in  harmony  altogether 
with  the  ways  of  men.  I  have  labored 
in  the  ministry  long  enough  to  know 
that  should  I  be  favored  to  enjoy  the 
Holy  Spirit  and  speak  the  things  that 
the  Lord  shall  give  unto  me;  they  will 
not  be  altogether  in  harmony  with  peo- 
ple who  do  not  enjoy  that  spirit.  I 
believe  it  is  proper  for  us  to  be  conser- 
vative and  consistent  in  all  that  we  say 
and  do;  but  I  confess  to  you  that  my 
time  is  too  short  on  this  occasion  to 
prepare  your  minds  for  what  I  may 
say,  for  I  have  not  an  entire  conception 
of  just  how  I  am  going  to  come  out  in 
fifteen  minutes  from  now. 

I  have  thought  some  little  lately 
about  the  Bible,  which  we  claim  to  be 
the  word  of  God,  "as  far  as  it  is  trans- 
lated correctly."  Taking  that  state- 
ment into  consideration,  there  are  no 
people  on  the  earth  that  quibble  so  lit- 
tle about  the  Bible  as  do  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  am  strongly  Impressed  with 
the  idea  that  the  Bible  cannot  be  un- 
derstood only  by  the  same  spirit  with 
which  it  was  written.  If  that  state- 
ment be  true,  I  am  impressed  with  the 
idea  that  the  Christian  world  have  not 
got  very  much  of  it,  or  else  they  would 
understand  it  more  alike.  There  are 
said  to  be  six  hundred  or  more  denom- 
inations. I  have  never  exactly  found  out 
how  many.  I  have  heard  Elders  talk 
about  it,  but  I  never  had  an  exact 
statement.  And  I  believe  what  was  ex- 
pressed in  an  editorial  in  the  Deseret 
News — we  would  like  to  know  which 
one  of  them  is  the  Christian  church,  for 
we  are  in  some  doubt. 

Now,  we  have  the  Book  of  Mormon; 
and  if  there  is  anything  on  earth  that 
has  made  trouble  for  this  people  it  is 
that  book.    It  is  largely   the  means  of 


32 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


costing  the  lives  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  his  brother  Hyrum.and  hundreds 
of  others  belonging  to  this  Church. 
But  I  am  prepared  to  testify  that  it 
contains  the  word  of  God.  We  have 
also  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
which  are  accepted  by  this  people  as 
the  revelations  of  God;  and  they  have 
made  an  endless  lot  of  trouble  for  this 
people,  because  they  are  the  word  of 
God.  There  is  only  "one  of  a  city  and 
two  of  a  family"  that  are  willing  to 
accept  them;  so  you  need  not  think  I 
am  going  to  get  discouraged  because 
they  do  not  believe  all  I  say,  and  you 
need  not  think  I  am  going  to  stop  talk- 
ing, if  permission  be  given  me,  because 
some  people  do  not  believe  all  I  say. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe  I  will 
tell  you  how  to  popularize  the  "Mor- 
mon" Church.  If  you  want  to  be  pop- 
ular, I  can  tell  you  how  to  be  so.  The 
"Josephite"  church  has  started  out  in 
about  the  right  line  to  accomplish  their 
purpose,  by  cutting  out  a  number  of 
truths  that  Joseph  Smith  revealed  to 
the  Saints,  and  in  this  way  they  are 
trying  to  popularize  themselves.  Now, 
if  you  will  stop  sending  out  these  four- 
teen hundred  Elders,  testifying  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith 
is  a  prophet  of  God,  that  we  have  apos- 
tles and  prophets  inspired  of  God,  that 
we  enjoy  revelation,  that  the  signs  fol- 
low the  believer,  that  the  sick  are  heal- 
ed by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  that  we 
have  divine  authority  from  God,  then 
you  will  be  popular.  Are  your  prepared 
to  do  it?  If  you  will  stop  going  into 
these  temples  and  receiving  your  en- 
dowments and  being  married  for  time 
and  all  eternity,  that  will  help  -a  little. 
After  awhile,  it  seems  to  me,  if  I  have 
the  right  spirit,  they  will  refuse  to  al- 
low us  to  hold  offices  if  we  go  into  these 
temples  and  receive  our  endowments 
from  the  Lord.  And  while  they  have 
not  rejected  us  yet,  I  am  rather  im- 
pressed that  they  will  reject  us;  for  the 
Christian  world  have  already  done  it, 
and  I  do  not  know  but  what  this  nation 
will.  I  do  not  know  but  I  will  be  glad 
when  it  comes.  If  the  Lord  cannot  take 
care  of  His  Church  and  His  people  and 
look  after  their  interests,  then  we  have 
been  mistaken.     I  tell  you  we  have 


friends  and  we  have  men  in  the  world 
who  have  the  Spirit  of  God, 
who  will  rise  up  and  protect  this  people. 
I  am  not  numbered  among  those  who 
think  that  we  have  no  friends,  for  we 
have  friends;  but,  brethren  and  sisters, 
you  are  not  of  the  world,  and  therefore 
the  world  hateth  you,  speaking  general- 
ly. If  you  want  to  be  popular,  stop  do- 
ing the  things  that  I  have  mentioned, 
and  deny  their  truth.  But  if  you  want 
to  stay  with  this  Church,  be  true  to 
your  covenants.  The  time  will  come 
when  you  will  be — as  you  are  now — a 
light  set  upon  a  hill.  I  tell  you,  all  the 
devils  in  hell  cannot  destroy  this 
Church.  And  the  devil  never  has  been 
entirely  comfortable  since  that  temple 
(the  Salt  Lake  Temple)  was  completed. 

I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to 
another  subject:  I  happen  to  have  a 
little  information  on  paper  this  morn- 
ing, which  is  rather  unusual  for  me.  I 
desire  to  call  your  attention  to  some  of 
the  labors  of  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy.  Listening  to  all  these  presi- 
dents of  stakes,  you  would  think  that 
their  stakes  were  the  only  stakes  in 
Zion;  and  I  rather  approve  of  that 
style.  I  believe  that  you  ought  to  love 
that  which  is  your  own.  I  am  learning 
that  slowly.  If  you  have  got  anything 
that  is  not  presentable,  for  heaven'a 
sake  do  not  say  anything  about  it;  they 
will  find  it  out  soon  enough.  We  have 
been  laboring  among  these  Seventies 
for  four  years — ever  since  the  presiden- 
cy of  the  Church  notified  us  that  we 
had  a  number  of  Seventies  on  that  book 
containing  the  non-tithepayers  of  the 
Church.  We  received  reports  from  these 
Seventies  for  two  years,  1899  and  1900. 
Now  we  have  a  report  here,  which  is  a 
good  deal  like  the  reports  Brother  Rey- 
nolds was  talking  about — not  entirely 
true,  because  twenty  quorums  have 
failed  to  send  their  report  in.  I  feel  so 
annoyed,  I  can  hardly  express  myself. 
I  have  been  working  with  the  presi- 
dents of  those  quorums  for  four  months 
to  get  their  reports.  I  will  say  here 
that  we  have  some  Seventies,  amongst 
those  quorums  that  are  just  about  as 
near  dead  as  they  ever  will  be  in 
the  world.  They  are  walking 
around,  but  they  are  dead.  From  top 
to  bottom  they  are  dead  spiritually. 
We  have  143  quorums.    Number  not  re- 


ELDER  J.  G. 

ported,  20.  We  have  between  8,000  and 
10,000  Seventies;  we  are  not  quite  clear 
as  to  the  actual  number.  There  are  14 
quorums  that  have  no  non-tithepayers. 
Number  of  Seventies  who  do  not  pay 
tithing  because  of  neglect  and  careless- 
ness, 238.  Number  that  do  not  pay  tith- 
ing because  of  sickness  and  physical 
ailments,  28.  Number  on  account  of 
debt,  12.  Some  of  these  men  get  in  debt, 
and  a  few  of  them  have  told  me  that 
the  Lord  is  so  merciful  and  their  cred- 
itors are  so  hard  on  them  that  they  will 
pay  them  first.  Number  on  account  of 
poverty,  77.  Number  on  account  of  un- 
belief in  tithing,  28.  Missionaries  that 
have  just  returned  and  are  heavily  in 
debt,  and  make  that  as  their  excuse, 
15.  There  are  7  that  are  disgruntled— 
that  is,  they  do  not  like  their  Bishops, 
or  they  have  locked  horns  with  the 
Presidency  of  the  Stake,  or  else  they 
have  not  been  treated  right  when  they 
went  to  pay  their  tithing.  There  are  9 
that  do  not  like  the  manner  of  disburs- 
ing the  tithing.  These  make  a  total  of 
412.  Including  the  20  quorums  that  have 
not  reported,  we  perhaps  have  about 
500  non-tithepayers  out  of  9,000  Seven- 
ties. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  have 
been  looking  after  the  Seventies  during 
the  last  year  for  missionaries.  We 
took  up  the  matter  under  the  direction 
of  the  First  Presidency.  We  have  had 
suggested  from  the  different  quorums 
of  the  Church  497  missionaries,  and  we 
have  been  laboring  with  those  men  ever 
since — that  is,  writing  letters  of  inquiry 
regarding  their  moral,  their  spiritual, 
their  physical,  their  financial  and  their 
educational  condition;  and  after  send- 
ing out  these  letters,  I  want  to  say  to 
some  of  the  Presidents  of  Stakes,  you 
need  not  be  exercised— we  did  not  get 
all  the  497.  There  is  nothing  that  has 
been  done  by  the  First  Council,  under 
the  direction  of  the  Presidency,  for 
years  that  has  done  as  much  good  as 
our  inquiring  after  these  brethren.  I 
wish  we  had  the  time  to  enquire  after 
every  one  of  the  Seventies,  and  thos? 
that  are  nearly  dead,  it  would  doubt- 
less start  their  blood  to  circulating,  and 
teach  these  Seventies  the  fact  that  they 
are  witnesses  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 


KIMBALL. 

to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  it  is 
their  privilege  to  preach  the  Gospel  con- 
tinually, and  that  they  ought  to  be  out 
of  debt  and  prepared  to  go.  Out  of  the 
497  the  number  reported  to  the  mission- 
ary committee  of  the  Apostles  was  163. 
The  number  excused,  on  account  of  fin- 
ancial and  physical  condition,  138.  Num- 
ber who  have  not  answered  letters  of 
inquiry  yet,  60;  but  some  of  these  let- 
ters have  only  just  been  sent  out,  and 
they  will  answer  them.  Number  noti- 
fied to  report  to  the  First  Council  in 
one  year,  131.  The  131  were  in  debt, 
nearly  all  of  them,  and  we  gave  them 
a  year  to  get  out  of  debt.  They  are 
now  on  the  anxious  bench  for  a  whole 
year,  and  at  the  end  of  the  year,  with 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  and  a  desire 
on  their  part  to  go  forth  as  witnesses, 
God  will  be  with  them;  but  if  they  do 
not  get  free,  all  they  have  to  do  is  to 
report  it,  and  they  will  be  excused,  no 
doubt.  Number  who  declined  to  go,  5. 
Out  of  497  only  5  declined;  and  I  be- 
lieve if  we  had  fully  understood  their 
letters  and  had  started  the  Presidents 
to  labor  with  them,  there  would  not  be 
found  probably  more  than  one  out  of 
the  whole  number  who  would  decline  to 
go.  I  tell  you,  it  is  a  remarkable  thing. 
The  Christian  church  cannot  show  any- 
thing like  it. 

I  have  not  time  to  talk  much  about 
missionary  work.  In  a  few  words,  I 
want  to  say  that  I  am  strongly  impress- 
ed that  we  are  spending  too  much  mon- 
ey in  this  labor.  I  learned  from  the 
Deseret  News  last  night — which  cor- 
roborates largely  what  I  have  believed 
— that  they  have  seventy  missionaries 
out  of  Davis  stake,  and  it  cost  them 
$15,000  a  year.  If  that  statement  be 
true,  that  every  Elder  spends  at  least 
$200  a.  year  on  an  average,  and  we  have 
1,400  Elders  out  preaching  the  Gospel 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  it  costs  this 
people  $280,000  every  year  in  cash.  All 
I  have  to  say,  brethren,  if  you 
cannot  g'o  On  missions;  you  are  too  rich 
to  go,  or  you  have  too  much  business, 
or  you  have  positions  in  the  Church 
that  prevent  you  from  going;  then,  for 
heaven's  sake,  help  those  who  do  go; 
The  Church  must  be  protected  in  its 
business,  in  its  wards,  its  stakes  and 
its  Church  schools.    I  believe  in  pro- 


34 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


tection — if  I  am  among  the  number  pro- 
tected; but  inasmuch  as  I  am  not,  I 
tell  you  who  are,  in  the  name  of  Israel's 
God,  if  this  Gospel  must  be  preached, 
and  we  must  spend  $280,000  to  preach  it, 
you  men  that  stay  home  must  help  car- 
ry the  burden,  and  not  have  our  breth- 
ren mortgage  their  homes  and  sell  out 
everything  to  do  this  work.  There  are 
not  two  rich  Seventies  in  the  whole 
number  we  have  reported  to  the  mis- 
sionary committee  of  the  Apostles. 
They  are  all  poor  men,  and  some  of 
their  letters  would  bring  tears  to  your 
eyes,  when  they  write  to  us  explaining 
the  little  they  have,  but  they  say  "I  am 
ready  to  go;  I  know  God  Almighty  will 
bless  us."  I  will  rob  you  of  a  little 
time  for  the  purpose  of  reading  you 
what  the  Lord  told  my  father,  and  I 
take  it  as  a  testimony  to  me  that  there 
is  nothing  that  brings  a  greater  bless- 
ing than  preaching  the  Gospel  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth. 

Far  "West,  April  6,  1839. 

"A  word  from  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  my  servant,  Heber  C.  Kimball. 

"Trouble  not  thyself  about  thy  fam- 
ily; for  they  are  in  my  hands.  I  will 
feed  them,  and  clothe  them,  and  make 
unto  them  friends.  They  never  shall 
want  for  food,  nor  raiment,  houses  nor 
lands,  fathers  nor  mothers,  brothers 
nor  sisters,  and  peace  shall  rest  upon 
them  forever,  if  thou  wilt  be  faithful 
and  go  forth  and  preach  my  Gospel  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth." 

I  stand  before  you  as  a  living  witness 
of  its  truth.  I  have  traveled  among 
this  people  for  eleven  years.  I  have  re- 
ceived honors  and  blessings  from 
among  this  people,  because  of  my  fa- 
ther. I  have  found  fathers  and  moth- 
ers, brothers  and  sisters.  I  have  found 
friends  everywhere  I  have  been  among 
this  people.  And  I  attribute  the  great- 
er part  of  it  to  the  fact  that  my  father 
fulfilled  that  commandment.  His  chil- 
dren have  never  wanted  for  bread,  and 
I  tell  you,  in  the  name  of  Israel's  God, 
they  never  will.  They  will  be  mighty 
poor,  but  they  will  always  have  bread. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

"Rouse  all  ye  mortals,    the    dawn  Is 
near." 

Benediction  by  Elder  John  H.  Smith. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

Held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  April  5, 
2  p.  m. 

Elder  A.  O.  Woodruff  presided.  He 
was  assisted  by  Elders  Rudger  Claw- 
son  and  Hyrum  M.  Smith,  also  of  the 
Twelve. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  beginning: 

An  angel  from  on  high, 
The  lonsr,  long  silence  hrr 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Rudger 
Clawson. 
The  choir  sang: 

A  holy  angel  from  on  high, 
The  joyful  message  has  made  known. 

I 

ELDER  BEN.  E.  RICH, 

President  of  the  Middle  States  mis- 
sion, was  the  first  speaker.    He  said: 

I  sincerely  trust  that  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  will  be  with  us  this  after- 
noon, and  that  it  will  rest  upon  those 
who  may  speak  as  well  as  those  who 
listen.  If  we  are  here  to  learn  more 
concerning  our  duties  to  our  God,  it  Is 
as  necessary  for  the  congregation  to 
have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  as  it  is  for 
those  who  address  the  congregation.  It 
is  not  enough  that  those  who  speak  to 
us  shall  do  so  under  the  influence  of 
that  Spirit,  but  we  should  listen  and 
strive  to  understand  the  ripirit  prompt- 
ing the  utterances  made. 

I  rejoice  that  we  have  the  privilege  o£ 
coming  together  and  listening  to  the 
words  of  counsel  and  inspiration  that 
fall  from  the  lips  of  the  authorities  of 
the  Church.  While  we  are  here  in  con- 
ference assembled  our  brothers  and 
sisters  scattered  througflout  the  differ- 
ent nations  of  the  earth  are  assisting 
us  with  their  faith  and  prayers,  and 
they  are  praying  for  their  deliverance 
from  the  land  of  Babylon;  they  are 
prayinsr  that  the  time  may  come,  and 
that  speedily,  'when  they  will  have  the 
privilege  of  coming  to  Zion  to  worship 
the  Lord.  I  have  listened  to  the  pray- 
ers of  the  faithful  Saints  in  far  off 
Europe  and  in  the  missionary  fields  of 
America,  and  I  know  that  it  is  not 
necessary  for  the  Elders  .to  preach  the 
principle  of  the  gathering  to  those  who 


ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 


35 


render  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  When  they 
have  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  and  repent 
of  their  sins,  and  are  baptized  for  the 
remission  of  the  same,  and  receive  the 
seal  of  the  Spirit  through  the  laying  on 
of  hands,  the  spirit  of  gathering  rests 
upon  them,  and  they  are  anxious  to 
gather  to  Zion,  where  they  can  learn 
more  of  the  ways  of  the  Lord.  It  has 
been  predicted  that  in  the  last  days  the 
mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  would  be 
established  in  the  tops  of  the  moun- 
tains, and  that  people  rrom  many  na- 
tions would  be  heard  to  say:  "Come, 
and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of 
the  Lord,  and  to  the  house  of  the  God 
of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his 
ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths." 
This  is  being  literally  fulfilled  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  the  valleys  of 
these  mountains.  People  from  all  na- 
tions under  heaven — all  civilized  na- 
tions—are praying  that  they  might 
come  up  to  this  house  of  the  Lord, 
where  they  may  learn  more  of  the  ways 
of  the  Lord;  for  they  want  to  walk  in 
the  path  that  will  bring  them  near  to 
God.  Many,  however,  on  emigrating  to 
Zion  are  disappointed,  and  when  they 
behold  the  acts  of  some  people,  they 
feel  that  this  is  a  different  Zion  to  the 
one  they  have  seen  in  their  dreams — 
to  the  Zion  they  have  prayed  for. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  should  under- 
stand that  they  all  hold  a  portion  of  the 
Presthood  of  God.  All  male  members  of 
the  Church  hold  a  portion  of  the  Prest- 
hood of  God,  or  have  the  privilege  of 
holding  it,  from  their  earlier  years  to 
the  grave.  We  are  expected  to  honor 
that  Priesthood.  When  we  come  to 
Zion  it  is  required  of  us  that  we  shall 
aid  in  making  it  Zion  in  very  deed,  that 
we  shall  assist  in  purifying  and  cleans- 
ing it  from 'everything  that  is  displeas- 
ing in  the  sight  of  God,  making  it  such 
a  place  as  would  be  expected  that  the 
Lord  would  select  for  the  gathering 
place  of  His  people  from  the  nations  of 
the  earth. 

Our  faith  is  not  a  myth;  it  is  a  real- 
ity. God  has  come  to  the  earth  in  the 
age  in  which  we  live,  and  His  only  be- 
gotten Son,  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth, 
came  with  Him,  and  They  opened  up 
this  work  in  which  we     are  engaged. 


They  gave  to  us  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith;  They  gave  to  us  the  ones  who 
have  succeeded  the  Prophet  Joseph 
in  the  Presidency  of  this  Church;  They 
gave  to  us  the  Apostles  and  the  Priest- 
hood, and  They  have  also  given  us  to 
understand  that  while  They  have 
granted  us  our  free  agency,  we 
are  to  be  brought  back  into 
their  presence.  Then  the  books 
will  be  opened,  and  we  will  discover 
that  we  have  been  talking,  aye,  and 
thinking,  into  such  a  phonograph  as 
has  recorded  our  words,  acts  and 
thoughts  in  the  Lamb's  book  of  life. 
When  that  book  is  opened  we  will  be 
held  accountable  for  every  idle  word 
•we  have  spoken;  and  the  Lord  is  going 
to  reward  us,  or  He  is  going  to  con- 
demn us,  for  that  which  we  have  done. 
We  will  be  rewarded  for  our  faithful- 
ness, and  we  will  be  held  accountable 
for  the  way  and  manner  in  which  we 
have  used  the  authority  that  He  has 
given  us  to  act  in  His  name;  this  we 
know.  We  also  understand  that  where 
much  is  given  much  will  be  required. 
We  claim  more  than  is  claimed  by  any 
other  religious  body  on  the  earth.  We 
claim  that  the  windows  of  heaven  have 
been  opened  to  us;  that  God  has  visited 
the  earth  in  person;  that  Jesus  is  our 
Elder  Brother;  that  unto  us  is  given  the 
privilege,  honor  and  authority  to  speak 
in  the  name  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  As 
I  said,  we  claim  more  than  is  claimed 
by  any  other  people  on  the  face  of  the 
earth,  but  I  want  to  tell  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  more  will  be  re- 
quired of  us  than  of  any  other  people, 
and  that  we  will  be  judged  according 
to  the  light  that  we  have  received.  We 
have  received  more  light  than  any  other 
people  on  the  earth;  »we  have  received 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness 
and  power.  To  us  has  been  given  the 
knowledge  that  the  Gospel  is  not  only 
for  the  living  but  also  for  the  dead. 
While  we  send  missionaries  through- 
out the  world  to  preach  to  the  living  the 
prinicples  of  repentance  and  baptism 
for  the  remission  of  sin,  we  also  have 
our  brothers  and  sisters  laboring  in  the 
same  cause  for  the  redemption  of  the 
dead,  knowing  as  we  do  that  the  Priest- 
hood of  God  does  not  pertain  to  this 
earth  alone,  but  that  it  also  pertains  to 
the  spirit  world,  where  mission  fields 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  been  opened  and  are  being  oper- 
ated. People  on  the  other  side  of  the 
veil  also  hear  the  glad  tidings  of  the 
Gospel  of  salvation;  we  know  that  the 
living  can  do  the  work  for  the  dead.  We 
also  know  that  the  dead  without  the 
living  cannot  be  made  perfect,  nor  the 
living  without  the  dead.  Not  one  neces- 
sary principle  connected  with  the  Gos- 
pel of  life  and  salvation,  either  for  the 
living  or  for  the  dead,  has  been  with- 
held from  us,  but  we  have  been  made 
the  custodians  of  this  knowledge.  We 
are  the  light  that  God  has  placed  on 
the  earth,  and  He  has  commanded  us 
not  to  set  it  under  a  bushel,  but  to  set 
it  on  a  mountain,  where  it  can  be  seen 
from  afar. 

We  are  commanded  to  go  into  the 
darkness  of  the  world  and  spread  the 
light  of  the  Gospel,  and  to  lift  up  our 
voices  and  cry,  "Repent  ye,  for  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand."  Let  us 
remember  that  we  all  shoulder  a  por- 
tion of  this  responsibility,  that  we  have 
a  portion  of  this  Priesthood,  and  that 
we  are  expected  to  magnify  the  same. 
Let  us  remember  that  two  Priesthoods 
have  been  given  us — the  Aaronic  and 
the  Melchisedek  Priesthood.  Those  who 
have  been  ordained  Elders  hold 
the  Melchisedek  Priesthood,  and  also 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  They  have 
just  as  much  Priesthood  as  any  man  in 
the  Church.  They  have  just  as  much 
Priesthood  as  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  or  the  Apostles;  for  there  are 
but  two  Priesthoods,  as  I  have  said, 
and  an  Elder  holds  them  both.  How- 
ever, there  are  different  offices  in  these 
Pristhoods.  In  the  Melchisedek  Priest- 
hood men  are  set  apart  to  labor  as  El- 
ders, others  as  Seventies,  and  still  oth- 
ers as  Apostles— special  witnesses  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  all  the  world; 
but  there  is  only  one  Melchisedek 
Priesthood.  Those  who  hold  the  Priest- 
hood had  better  magnify  their  callings, 
for  the  day  will  surely  come 
when  the  dead,  great  and 
small,  will  stand  before  the 
judgment  seat  of  God,  and  then,  as  I 
have  said,  where  much  was  given,  much 
will  be  required.  May  God  bless  you 
Amen. 


ELDER  HUGH  S.  GOWANS, 
(President  of  the  Tooele  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  to  attend  the 
general  conferences  of  our  Church  has 
always  been  a  feast  to  me,  and  this  one 
is  no  exception  to  the  rule.  I  pray  that 
the  same  spirit  that  has  characterized 
the  remarks  of  the  brethren  who  have 
already  spoken  during  this  Conference 
will  continue  with  us;  that  the  people 
may  be  fed  with  the  bread  of  life  and 
that  we  may  rejoice  together. 

I  feel  pleased  to  have  the  privilege 
of  representing  the  Tooele  Stake  of  Zion. 
This  stake  joins  the  County  of  Salt 
Lake  on  the  west.  It  is  large  in  area, 
comprising  the  entire  county,  "which  ex- 
tends 50  miles  north  and  south  and  1?5 
miles  east  and  west.  Although  our 
stake  is  large  in  area,  the  population 
is  small,  it  is  probably  one  of  the  small- 
est stakes  in  Zion,  the  population  being 
a  little  over  3,000  souls.  There  are  nine 
wards,  located  in  a  radius  of 
about  50  miles.  A  few  of  our  peo- 
ple live  on  the  extreme  west  of 
the  stake,  bordering  on  the  Neva- 
da line,  where  a  small  Sunday  school 
has  recently  been  organized.  The  pres- 
idency of  the  Tooele  stake  and  the  High 
Council  labor  in  unison.  Quite  a  num- 
ber of  the  High  Councilors  have  been 
members  of  the  High  Council  ever  since 
the  stake  was  organized,  in  1877,  and 
they  are  laboring  for  the  best  interests 
of  the  people.  Although  the  stake  is 
small  In  population,  we  have  the  same 
organizations  that  they  have  in  other 
stakes— Relief  societies,  Sunday  schools, 
etc.  So  far  as  our  population  is  con- 
cerned, we  have  not  increased  very 
much.  We  have  been  very  limited  in 
our  resources,  and  are  today,  so  far  as 
our  water  supply  is  concerned.  Our 
population  has  been  limited  on  this  ac- 
count. We  are  not  able  to  get  the 
young  people  to  settle  in  our  midst  and 
make  homes;  however,  a  few  have  tak- 
en up  dry  farms  and  have  been  success- 
ful to  some  extent,  although  last  year 
was  quite  a  failure.  Since  1882  our  pop- 
ulation has  only  increased  159  souls. 
Our  resources  have  been  limited,  and 
we  have  been  swarming,  like  bees,  and 
the  people  have  scattered,  going  to  oth- 


ELDER  L.  W.  SHURTLIFF. 


37 


er  places  to  which  they  have  been  invit- 
ed to  go  to  establish  homes.  A  great 
portion  of  what  is  known  today  as  Cas- 
sia county  was  built  up  by  people  from 
Tooele  county.  During  the  past  season 
as  many  as  twenty  persons  left  Grants- 
ville.  They  were  obliged  to  leave  on 
account  of  our  limited  water  supply. 
The  only  remedy  we  can  find  for  this, 
though  we  have  not  established  it  yet, 
is  the  piping  of  our  water  from  the 
mountain  streams  to  reservoirs  to  be 
stored  and  used  during  the  dry  season. 
That  is  the  only  way  that  I  know  of 
that  we  can  increase  our  population. 

I  feel  pleased  to  report  that  we  have 
established  a  Sunday  school  at  the  Mer- 
cur  mining  camp  (sometimes  referred 
to  as  the  Johannesburg  of  America), 
according  to  a  suggestion  of  Brother 
George  Reynolds,  of  the  general  super- 
intendency  of  the  Sunday  schools  of 
the  Church.  "We  have  a  nice  ward 
there,  but  it  is  composed  mostly  of 
transients.  We  are  kept  busy  re-or- 
ganizing the  various  organizations  of 
the  ward,  on  account  of  the  transient 
nature  of  the  people.  At  one  time  this 
ward  numbered  BOO  persons.  We  have 
been  able  to  establish  successfully  re- 
ligion classes  in  all  the  wards  of  the 
stake  but  three,  one  of  these  being 
Mercur.  Our  people  are  so  engaged 
there  that  it  has  not  been  possible  to 
get  anybody  to  take  hold  of  the  matter, 
and  the  teachers  of  the  district  schools 
are  not  of  our  faith.  The  people  of 
the  Vernon  ward,  in  the  extreme  south 
of  the  stake,  are  so  scattered  that,  dur- 
ing the  winter  months,  it  has  been  im- 
possible to  retain  the  children  after 
school  hours  to  attend-  the  religion 
class. 

All  the  organizations  and  institutions 
of  our  stake  are  in  a  good  and  healthy 
condition,  I  believe.  I  feel  to  rejoice  in 
this,  and  in  the  amount  of  faith  exer- 
cised by  the  people.  The  subject  of 
tithing  has  been  referred  to  by  some  of 
our  brethren  who  have  represented 
their  stakes,  and  they  have  reported  a 
wonderful  increase,  amounting  to  thou- 
sands of  dollars.  In  the  year  1882  the 
tithing  of  the  Tooele  stake  was  about 
$9,000.  Since  that  time  it  has  doubled 
itself,  though  our  population  is  about 
the  same.  I  take  that  as  an  indication 
'  of  an  increase  of  faith  on  the  part  of 


the  people.  The  tithing  paid  last  year 
amounted  nearly  to  $19,000,  and  the  pop- 
ulation is  but  3,000.  As  I  remarked,  I 
take  this  as  an  indication  of  an  increase 
of  faith  on  the  part  of  the  people,  be- 
cause it  is  the  oldest  members  of  the 
stake  who  pay  this  tithing,  the  young 
people  having  moved  to  Canada  and 
other  places  to  find  homes. 

I  feel  to  rejoice  in  making  this  report, 
though  it  is  probably  not  as  complete 
as  I  would  like  to  make  it,  as  we  have 
not  time  to  go  into  details  this  after- 
noon. 

I  hope  that  we  will  be  able  to  remain 
faithful  and  to  appreciate  the  blessings 
and  privileges  that  we  enjoy,  associat- 
ed, as  we  are,  with  the  living  oracles  of 
God,  who  have  been  placed  in  the  midst 
of  the  people  to  guide  and  direct  them. 
I  hope  that  we  will  be  able  to  enjoy  the 
same  feeling  expressed  by  Abraham 
Lincoln  during  the  time  of  the  civil 
war.  A  friend  was  talking  with  him 
regarding  the  condition  of  the  country, 
and  so  on,  and  made  the  remark,  "I 
hope  that  the  Lord  is  on  our  side." 
'Well,"  said  President  Lincoln,  "I  do 
not  worry  about  that  at  all;  I  know 
that  the  Lord  is  always  on  the  side  of 
right.  What  worries  me  most  is  to 
know  if  we  are  on  the  Lord's  side."  I 
hope,  my  brethren  and  sisters  that  we 
will  worry  over  this  until  we  have  a 
testimony  of  the  truth,  and  an  assur- 
ance that  we  are  on  the  Lord's  side. 
Amen. 

L.  W.  SHURTLIFF, 
(President  of  the  Weber  Stake  of  Zion.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  pleas- 
ure to  have  this  privilege  of  standing 
before  you  here  today  to  make  such  re- 
port as  I  may  be  led  by  the  Spirit  to 
give,  concerning  the  Weber  Stake  of 
Zion,  over  which  I  have  the  honor  to 
preside.  It  is  one  of  the  oldest  stakes 
in  Zion.  Although  the  area  of  our  stake 
is  small,  the  population  is  large,  num- 
bering over  13,000  souls.  I  believe  we 
are  all  laboring  in  harmony.  So  far 
as  the  tithing  is  concerned,  we  have 
made  a  large  increase  during  the  past 
year;  in  fact,  the  tithing  has  been  in- 
creasing for  several  years.  I  rejoice  to 
say  that  the  people  of  the  Weber  Stake 
are  a  good  people. 


38 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Regarding  the  opening  remarks  of 
President  Smith  at  this  Conference,  ad- 
vising the  Latter-day  Saints  not  to  neg- 
lect the  useful  professions,  I  will  say, 
that  although  we  are  located  in  the  cen- 
tral part  of  the  state  and  have  quite  a 
large  city,  yet  nearly  all  our  people  are 
farmers  and  fruitgrowers,  and  a  great 
many  of  them  are  employed  in 
sugar  and  canning  factories,  which 
have  been  erected  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  believe  there  is  none  in  the 
Weber  Stake  of  Zion  who  cannot  obtain 
lucrative  employment  along  the  lines 
referred  to,  without  being  obliged  to 
enter  into  the  professions. 

I  rejoice  in  meeting  with  the  people 
of  God  in  conference,  in  hearing  the 
testimonies  of  our  brethren,  and  in  lis- 
tening to  the  voice  of  God's  servants, 
proclaiming  the  truths  of  heaven  and 
pointing  out  our  duties.  It  has  been  my 
good  fortune,  as  I  deem  it,  to  be  asso- 
ciated with  the  Church  all  my  life.  I 
have  had  the  privilege  of  being  person- 
ally acquainted  with  all  of  the  Presi- 
dents of  the  Church,  Prophets  of  God, 
since  the  days  of  Brigham  Young,  and 
have  taken  a  small  part  in  the  labors 
pertaining  to  the  Priesthood  from  that 
day  until  the  present.  I  feel  that  those 
who  lead  the  Church  today  have  the 
same  power  and  authority  to  guide  us 
as  did  the  first  President  of  the  Church. 
I  thank  the  Lord  that  we  have  such 
men  to  lead  us— the.  sons  of  those  great 
men  who  led  Israel  in  the  past,  and 
who  introduced  the  work  of  God  in  the 
earth. 

I  do  not  feel  that  I  should  prolong  my 
remarks.  I  know  this  to  be  the  work  of 
God.  I  have  had  this  testimony  from 
my  youth  up,  and  I  have  had  the  priv- 
ilege of  bearing  the  same  not  only  in 
my  own  land,  but  also  in  foreign  lands; 
for  I  realize,  as  has  been  said  here  to- 
day, that  we  •will  be  held  accountable 
for  our  acts,  either  of  a  public  or  of  a 
private  character.  I  thank  the  Lord 
that  there  is  a  Judge  who  will  judge 
us — perhaps  more  carefully,  and  ac- 
cording to  our  deserts,  than  we  judge 
one  another.  I  pray  God  to  bless  us, 
and  to  fill  us  with  a  love  for  the  truth, 
that  we  may  never  turn  traitors  to  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  or  the  servants 
of  God.  Amen. 


ELDER  DAVID  JOHN, 
(President  of  the  Utah  Stake.) 

I  am  pleased  to  make  a  few  remarks, 
and  they  must  be  very  few-,  as  a  good 
many  others  have  to  speak. 

I  am  pleased  to  say  that  the  Church 
in  the  Utah  Stake  of  Zion  is  in  a 
healthy,  thriving  condition.  Of  course, 
our  stake  is  one  of  the  oldest,  being  or- 
ganized soon  after  the  settlement  of  the 
people  in  that  county.  They  divided  our 
stake  about  27  months  ago,  organizing 
two  other  stakes — Alpine  and  Nebo — 
leaving  us  between  nine  and  ten  thou- 
sand souls.  Previous  to  the  division  we 
had  between  twenty-four  and  fwenty- 
five  thousand  souls  in  the  stake.  We  are 
trying  our  best  to  keep  up  with  the 
times.  The  people  are  paying  their 
tithing.  Some  2,500  Saints  in  our  stake 
are  paying  a  full  tithing.  There  are 
others  who  pay  only  a  partial  tithing, 
480  who  should  be  tithe-payers  pay  no 
tithing  at  all.  This  is  quite  a  draw- 
back to  them,  and  it  is  also  a  draw- 
back to  the  Church.  We  are  laboring 
with  these  people  and  are  trying  to  get 
them  to  assist  the  kingdom.  We  want 
to  labor  with  all  of  them;  for  we  do 
not  want  to  be  rash  in  handling  them 
for  their  fellowship.  It  is  far  better  to 
labor  with  them,  to  seek  to  enlighten 
them,  and  to  draw  them  to  us,  and  to 
get  the  Spirit  of  God  in  their  hearts. 

I  labored  a  long  time  in  the  Utah 
stake  with  the  late  President  A.  O. 
Smoot.  I  was  with  him  over  18  years, 
assisting  in  the  presidency  of  the  stake. 
Then  I  assisted  President  Partridge  five 
and  a  half  years.  Since  the  death  of 
Brother  Partridge  I  have  had  charge  of 
the  stake,  in  connection  with  my  coun- 
selors. We  labor  in  harmony  and  with 
love  for  one  another.  Our  High 
Council  and  our  quorums  are 
in  good  working  condition.  Our 
Bishops  and  their  counselors 
are  men  of  God,  alive  to 
their  callings.  Our  home  missionaries 
and  all  our  organizations  are  doing  ex- 
cellent work.  We  have  been  striving, 
of  late,  to  infuse  new  life  into  the 
quorums  of  the  Deacons,  Teachers  and 
Priests.  We  feel  that  we  have  neglect- 
ed these  quorums  more  than  we  should 
in  our  stake.  We  want  to  bring  the 
boys  to  the  front,  those  who  belong  to' 


ELDER  FRANK  J.  BRAMWBLL. 


39 


the  quorums  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood, 
and  have  them  do  the  work  pertaining 
to  their  callings.  In  doing  this,  they 
will  grow  and  develop  and  become 
members  of  the  Church  in  very  deed. 

I  have  a  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ  in 
my  heart,  and  light  from  heaven  to 
comfort  my  heart  and  to  cheer  me  in 
my  labors.  To  me  serving  God  is  a 
pleasure.  I  have  endeavored  to  do  this 
all  my  life,  and  to  devote  my  life  and 
all  that  I  have  to  God's  service.  I 
pray  God  to  bless  us  all  and  to  enable 
us  to  obey  the  Priesthood,  to  pay  our 
tithes  and  offerings  and  attend  to  our 
duties,  and  to  build  an  altar  of  prayer 
in  our  own  homes.  May  God  enable  us 
to  do  this,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANK  J.  BRAMWELL, 
President  of  the  Union  Stake  of  Zion. 

It  affords  me  very  great  pleasure,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  represent  the 
Union  Stake  of  Zion,  one  of  the  young- 
est stakes  in  the  Church.  I  believe  it 
was  organized  nineteen  months  ago  to- 
day. We  were  very  few  in  number  at 
that  time,  and  were  located  almost  en- 
tirely in  the  Grand  Ronde  Valley,  In 
Oregon.  Since  our  organization  our 
number  has  increased  exceedingly.  I 
am  reliably  Informed  that  the  increase 
of  the  Union  stake  exceeded  that  of  any 
other  stake  in  the  Church  during  the 
year  1902.  To  be  exact,  our  number  in- 
creased 1,030  during  the  past  year.  We 
have  ten  organized  wards  and  one 
branch.  All  the  organizations  of  the 
stake  are  complete,  as  are  also  the  ward 
organizations,  with  the  exception  of 
two. 

The  Union  Stake  of  Zion  was  organ- 
ized, you  might  say,  in  the  midst  of 
the  world,  and  there  are  great  oppor- 
tunities for  missionary  work — and  es- 
pecially by  the  good  .example  of  the 
Saints  living  there.  The  people  of  Ore- 
gon, I  am  pleased  to  report,  are  very 
broad-minded,  as  a  rule.  We  meet 
with  practically  no  opposition.  We  are 
invited  into  the  business  circle.  We  are 
invited  to  take  part  in  committees  in 
the  local  government.  Only  a  few  days 
ago  I  was  sent  for  by  the  business  men 
of  the  city  of  LeGrand,  which  has  a 
population  of  upwards  of  5,000,  and  I 


was  informed  by  that  body  of  gentle- 
men that  they  had  decided  to  put  a 
ticket  into  the  field  that  should  be 
known  as  a  business  ticket,  and  that 
they  wanted  a  "Mormon"  to  head  that 
ticket.  I  considered  this  a  very  great 
compliment  to  the  few  of  us  located  in 
that  vicinity. 

We  have  an  exceptionally  rich  valley. 
The  soil  is  exceedingly  rich,  and  with 
the  cultivation  that  will  be  given  it,  I 
trust,  by  the  Latter-Day  Saints  already 
there  and  those  who  may  join  us,  it  will 
produce  enormous  crops,  and  our  peo- 
ple, I  trust,  will  become  wealthy. 

The  spirit  of  unity  prevails  there.  I 
know  of  no  unhealthy  condition  in  any 
of  our  stake  or  ward  organizations.  I 
think  I  am  also  safe  in  saying  that 
there  are  fewer  drones,  at  least  in  one 
or  two  of  our  wards,  than  it  has  been 
my  lot  to  observe  in  any  other  stake.  I 
do  not  say  this  boastingly,  but  with 
thanksgiving  to  the  Lord. 

Our  borders  extend  to  the  state  of 
Idaho.  We  have  two  wards  in  that 
state  which  are  increasing  with  rapid- 
ity. A  few  weeks  ago  I  was  in  the 
office  of  the  chief  executive  of  the  state 
of  Idaho,  and  was  speaking  of  the  col- 
onization of  the  western  portion  of  that 
state  by  the  Mormon  people.  I  assured 
the  governor  that  it  was  our  intention 
to  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth,  to 
reclaim  the  desert,  to  do  as  much  good 
as  possible,  and  to  assist  in  the  civil 
government  all  we  could.  He  gave  ex- 
pression to  an  observation  that  he  had 
made,  which  will  perhaps  be  of  interest 
to  you.  He  said,  "Mr.  Bramwell,  th§ 
Mormon  people  compose  about  one- 
third  of  the  population  of  this  state. 
There  are  in  the  penitentiary  today 
about  125  persons,  nine  of  whom  are,  or 
call  themselves,  Mormons."  There  are 
in  the  insane  asylum  of  this  state  nine- 
ty or  one  hundred  persons,  only  six  of 
whom  are  furnished  by  the  Latter-day 
Saint  populace.  Such  figures  as  these 
are  very  encouraging.  It  seems  to  me 
that  to  those  who  do  not  like  "Mor- 
mons" or  "Mormonism,"  in  their  sober 
moments  of  reflection,  this  would  ap- 
peal at  once  and  bear  witness  that 
some  good,  at  least,  can  come  from 
what  they  term  "Mormonism."  I  con-, 
sider  it  a  very  favorable  showing  and 
a  great  compliment  to  the  Church  of 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Christ  in  the  earth.  I  remarked  to  the 
governor  that  if  those  nine  individuals 
who  found  themselves  behind  the  bars 
in  the  penitentiary  had  listened  to  the 
teachings  of  the  authorities  of  the 
Church,  there  would  have  been  nine  less 
in  that  institution  at  the  present 
time.  After  all,  these  favorable  con- 
ditions are  not  to  be  wondered  at,  be- 
cause it  is  claimed  by  'the  people,  and 
rightly  too,  that  we  are  led  of  the 
Lord.  I  have  claimed,  and  do  always 
claim,  that  anybody  can  follow,  but 
that  it  takes  a  great  deal  of  intelli- 
gence and  wisdom  to  lead.  As  Presi- 
dent Rich  has  suggested,  the  Lord  has 
been  true  to  his  promises.  He  has 
gathered  His  people  from  the  nations  of 
the  earth  and  has  established  them  here 
in  the  tops  of  the  mountains.  He  has 
said  that  He  would  gather  us  from 
every  nation  and  that  He  would  teach 
us  of  His  ways,  that  we  might  walk  in 
His  paths.  If  we  are  the  best  people 
on  the  face  of  the  earth,  it  is  because 
we  have  been  taught  of  the  Lord. 

I  rejoice  in  the  spread  of  the  Gos- 
pel. I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  that  I 
have  of  being  a  witness  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  that  I  am  able  to  testify  to  the 
restoration  of  His  Gospel,  and  that  I 
know  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  sal- 
vation to  all  those  who  accept  it.  I 
have  been  greatly  privileged,  for  which 
I  am  exceedingly  thankful.  I  am 
thankful  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  our 
efforts  in  the  Union  Stake  of  Zion.  I 
think  it  has  the  nicest  name  that  any 
stake  in  Zion  could  have.  As  I  tell  our 
people,  we  expect  a  great  deal  of  them 
because  as  long  as  they  are  at  home 
they  cannot  get  away  from  Union.  The 
great  and  last  prayer  of  the  Lord  was 
that  union  might  prevail,  and  we  have 
got  it  in  Oregon,  at  least  in  name.  I 
trust  that  the  fruits  we  bear  will  prove 
that  we  are  worthy  of  the  name.  I 
know  that  "Mormonism"  is  true,  that 
the  Lord  has  revealed  Himself  in  the 
earth,  and  that  the  power  of  God  is  in 
the  earth  for  the  salvation  of  the  hu- 
man family.  Let  us  be  faithful;  let  us 
live  according  to  the  light  that  the  Lord 
has  given  to  us,  following  our  file  lead- 
ers. We  sometimes  sing  the  hymn,  "We 
.  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet,  to 
guide  us  in  these  latter  days;"  but,  un- 
fortunately for  us,  individually  at  least. 


when  we  are  told  tg  do  a  certain  thing, 
in  some  instances  we  fail.  If  we  are 
thankful  to  the  Lord  for  a  Prophet  to 
guide  us,  let  us  listen  to  his  words, 
else  how  can  he  guide  us?  God  bless 
us,  and  may  He  bless  His  children  in 
all  the  world,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  DON  C.  DRIGGS, 
(President  of  the  Teton  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  proud 
to  stand  before  you  this  afternoon  to 
represent  the  youngest  stake  of  Zion 
that  has  been  organized,  being  the  fif- 
tieth, I  believe.  We  are  located  in  the 
eastern  part  of  Idaho,  joining  the  great 
national  park,  our  boundaries  taking 
in  the  Jackson  Hole  country  as  well  as 
the  Teton  valley.  It  has  been  about  15 
years  since  our  people  first  began  to 
settle  in  that  country.  I  was  one  of  the 
first.  The  scene  that  greeted  our  eyes 
at  that  time  was  very  fascinating  in- 
deed, in  looking  into  the  Teton  valley. 
It  was  then  uninhabited,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  a  few  trappers  and  frontiers- 
men, I  think  about  30  in  number.  To 
look  upon  that  beautiful  valley  and  see 
the  miles  and  miles  of  fine  land  thread- 
ed by  silvery  streams  of  water,  one  was 
led  to  exclaim,  "How  in  the  world  has  a 
country  like  this  lain  so  long  unoccu- 
pied?" But  as  we.  view  it  now  and  see 
it  occupied  largely  by  our  people,  we 
cannot  help  but  think  that  it  was  re- 
served as  a  gathering-place  for  the 
Saints.  In  fact,  the  Apostles  who 
visited  us  in  those  early  days  told  us 
that  it  would  be  a  home  for  many 
thousands  of  the  Saints  of  God,  that  the 
land  would  be  fruitful,  that  the  ele- 
ments would  be  tempered,  and  that  we 
would  be  able  to  produce  all  that  was 
necessary  for  our  sustenance.  These 
promises  have  been  truly  verified,  for 
we  are  not  only  producing  that  which 
is  necessary  to  sustain  us,  but  we  are 
exporting  a  great  deal  in  the  way  of 
grain,  potatoes,  timothy  seed,  etc.  Of 
course  we  do  not  raise  everything,  but 
we  are  able  to  produce  that  which  is 
necessary  to  sustain  us.  Our  stake  was 
organized  about  one  and  one-half  years 
ago,  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 
We  rejoice  very  much  that  we  have 
this  organization  and    to  receive  the 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  BAXTER. 


41 


blessings  that  we  derive  from  our  var- 
ious organizations  in  the  stake.  They 
bring  into  active  labor  a  large  num- 
ber of  people,  and  we  see  the  benefits 
and  are  enjoying  the  blessings  that 
come  to  us  in  this  resnect. 

Some  of  the  brethren  here  have  men- 
tioned something  about  the  products  of 
the  soil.  I  might  mention  the  fact  that 
in  the  Jackson's  Hole  country  we  have, 
I  presume,  the  greatest  game  country  in 
the  United  States.  Most  of  the  elks 
from  the  national  park  are  wintering 
there.  I  suppose  that  about  20,000  elks 
have  wintered  in  the  Jackson's  Hole 
country  during  the  past  winter.  I  was 
going  to  say  that  many  thousands  of 
them  had  died  of  starvation,  but  I  be- 
lieve it  would  be  more  correct  to  say 
many  hundreds.  There  has  been  a 
great  loss  among  these  animals  on  ac- 
count of  the  early  thaw  that 
came  in  the  winter  resulting 
in  the  crusting  of  the  snow, 
which  prevented  the  animals  from 
getting  their  feed.  The  loss  was  mainly 
among  the  calves.  The  settlers  have 
encroached  upon  the  winter  feeding 
grounds  of  the  elks.  The  elks  have  re- 
sented this  by  breaking  into  the  hay- 
stacks, and  they  have  become  a  men- 
ace to  the  people  in  that  region,  espec- 
ially during  the  past  winter. 

I  rejoice  in  the  instructions  that  we 
have  received  during  this  conference.. 
I  have  been  particularly  pleased  in  lis- 
tening to  the  reports  of  the  presidents 
of  stakes.  I  am  glad  to  be  able  to  take 
advantage  of  their  experience,  having 
learned  what  they  are  doing  and  how 
they  are  working  in  their  stakes.  I 
hope  to  profit  by  their  experience,  and 
also  by  the  counsel  and  advice  that 
has  been  given  to  us  by  the  brethren. 
I  do  not  feel  that  it  would  be  proper  for 
me  to  occupy  more  of  your  time.  I 
want  to  remember  the  advice  given  in 
the  manual  of  the  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.  To 
practice  stopping  at  the  right  time  and 
in  the  right  place.  I  pray  that  the  Lord 
will  bless  us,  and  bless  Zion,  that  we 
may  all  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  and  the 
blessings  that  are  vouchsafed  to  us, 
through  obedience  to  the  command- - 
ments  of  God.which  is  my  prayer. 
Amen. 


Sisters  Maggie  S.  Hull  and  Maria  B. 
Winder  favored  the  congregation  with 
a  duet. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  BAXTER. 
(President  of  the  Woodruff  Stake.) 

I  take  pleasure,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  representing  the  Woodruff 
stake  of  Zion.  The  Woodruff  stake  was 
organized  about  five  years  ago.  It  com- 
prises the  south  half  of  Rich  county, 
Utah,  and  the  southern  half  of  Uintah 
county,  Wyoming,  also  taking  in  the 
Lucern  valley  in  Uintah  county,  Utah. 
We  have  fifteen  wards  and  branches  in 
the  Woodruff  Stake.  It  covers  a  large 
area  of  country.  Our  stake  extends 
east  and  west  125  miles,  and  about  the 
same  distance  north  and  south.  The 
mining  and  agricultural  districts  are 
divided  about  equally.  That  portion  ot 
the  stake  in  Wyoming  is  composed 
principally  of  mining  districts,  and  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  greatly  in  the- 
minority;  while  that  portion  of  the 
stake  in  Utah  and  in  the  Ft.  Bridger 
country,  Wyoming,  is  composed  mainly 
of  farming  districts,  and  the  people  are 
mostly  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have 
erected  five  meetinghouses  since  the  or- 
ganization of  the  stake,  all  of  which 
have  been  completed  and  paid  for.  We 
now  have  a  meetinghouse  in  course  of 
construction  at  Randolph,  which  will 
cost  upwards  of  $15,000.  It  has  not  been 
finished  yet. 

We  suffered  a  great  loss  two  years 
ago,  after  the  organization  of  our  stake, 
when  so  many  of  our  people  were  called 
to  colonize  the  Big  Horn  country,  in- 
cluding President  Sessions,  my  first 
counselor,  and  a  number  of  other  per- 
sons holding  prominent  positions  in  the 
Woodruff  Stake.  The  Big  Horn  Stake 
was  organized  two  years  ago;  previous 
to  that  time  it  belonged  to  the  Wood- 
ruff stake  of  Zion:  We  met  with  an- 
other great  loss  in  the  Woodruff  stake, 
through  the  closing  of  the  mines  at 
Aimy,  Wyoming,  which  caused  the 
breaking  up  of  the  ward  at  that  place. 
Alma  was  the  largest  ward  in  the 
Woodruff  stake  at  the  time  of  its  or- 
ganization. When  the  mines  closed 
down,  the  people  scattered  throughout 


42 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


the  states  of  Wyoming-  and  Utah.  I  am 
pleased  to  say,  however,  that  the  tithes 
of  the  people  have  not  diminished  on 
account  of  this  loss.  We  are  paying 
more  tithing  at  present  than  we  were 
when  the  Alma  ward  was  in  a  flourish- 
ing condition  and  when  the  Big  Horn 
country  was  still  included  in  our  stake. 
So,  we  are  increasing1  in  number  and 
good  works.  That  barren  country 
known  as  the  Ft.  Bridger  country,  over 
which  so  many  of  our  fathers  and 
mothers  traveled  in  coming  to  these 
valleys,  which  was  then,  and  up  to  a 
few  years  ago,  a  barren  desert,  now  has 
many  beautiful  farms  and  homes.  We 
now  have  a  thriving  people  there.  They 
have  erected  a  large  meetinghouse,  and 
it  is  equipped  with  all  the  modern  im- 
provements. 

We  are  getting  along  very 
nicely  with  our  neighbors  in  Wyo- 
ming, although,  in  many  of  the  towns 
in  which  our  people  are  located  we  are 
greatly  in  the  minority,  yet  we  are  ac- 
corded all  the  rights  and  privileges  that 
others  enjoy.  We  find  the  people  of 
Wyoming  to  be  a  broad-minded,  gen- 
erous and  large-hearted  people.  They 
are  willing  to  accord  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  all  the  rights  and  privileges  that 
are  given  to  other  people,  and  we  are 
tnjoying  the  friendship  and  fellowship 
of  the  people  of  that  state.  We  love 
them,  and  love  to  associate  with  them. 
I  am  happy  to  say  that  some  of  the 
congressmen  of  Wyoming  have  had  the 
courage  to  defend  our  people  in  the 
halls  of  Congress. 

All  the  organizations  of  the  Woodruff 
Stake  of  Zion  are  complete.  I  have, 
indeed,  been  blessed  with  good  counsel- 
ors— men  of  wisdom,  men  of  experi- 
ence, who  have  been  a  support  to  me. 
We  also  have  a  good  High  Council, 
which  is  a  help  to  the  Woodruff  stake. 
We  also  have  good  Bishops  and  good 
people  in  that  stake  of  Zion. 

There  is  one  thing  that  was  brought 
to  my  mind  this  morning,  while  one  of 
the  brethren  was  speaking  about  the 
young  people's  moving  away  from  his 
stake.  We  find  that  a  great  many 
young  men  and  young  ladies  from  Utah 
go  to  the  mining  camps  of  our  stake, 
in  search  of  employment.  There  are 
many  temptations  surrounding  the 
young  people  in  those  places,  which  are 


not  to  be  found  in  our  agricultural  dis- 
tricts in  Utah  and  other  places.  So  far 
as  saloons  are  concerned,  I  believe  we 
can  boast  of  more  saloons  in  the 
Woodruff  stake  than  in  any  other  stake 
in  the  Church.  Every  mining  town  in 
the  stake  has  from  10  to  15  saloons,  and 
I  almost  believe  the  people  drink  more 
beer  than  water;  but  it  is  not  our  peo- 
ple, as  a  rule.  Our  people  who  live 
there  are  nearly  all  temperate.  Some 
of  them  visit  the  saloons,  I  am  sorry 
to  say.  Some  of  the  young  people  who 
go  to  the  mining  towns  from  our  agri- 
cultural districts  in  Utah  and  other 
places,  after  getting  married,  being 
surrounded  by  these  influences  and  no 
longer  under  the  watchcare  of  their  par- 
ents and  the  Priesthood— some  of  them 
partake  of  these  influences  and  fail  to 
attend  to  the  duties  that  devolve  upon 
them  as  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  will  say  in  conclusion,  that  I  have 
a  testimony  to  bear  of  the  truth  of  this 
Gospel.  I  know  that  it  is  true.  I  was 
born  and  reared  in  this  Church,  being 
born  in  Salt  Lake  City.  I  have  had  evi- 
dence, all  my  life,  of  the  divinity  of  the 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  know 
that  this  Gospel  is  a  perfect  law  of 
liberty.  I  was  freeborn,  and  I  have 
been  free  ever  since  I  was  born.  I  have 
taken  a  great  deal  of  comfort  and 
pleasure  in  seeking  the  counsel  and  ad- 
vice of  those  who  were  placed  over  me, 
and  I  want  to  testify  to  you,  that  I 
have  profited  in  every  instance  by  doing 
so.  I  know  that  those  who  are  placed 
in  the  Church  to  lead  us  are  men  of 
God;  they  are  men  of  experience;  they 
are  men  of  wisdom,  and  above  all,  they 
are  inspired  of  God.  It  will  be  profita- 
ble to  us  as  Latter-day  Saints  not  only 
to  take  the  advice  that  they  may  give 
us  from  time  to  time,  but  to  seek  for 
their  counsel  and  advice  continually. 
May  God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  do 
this,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

ELDER  EPHRAIM  H.  NYE, 

(President  of  the  Southern  States  Mis- 
sion.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  regard 
myself  as  being  highly  honored  this  day 
to  stand  before  you  for  a  few  moments 
as  the  representative  of  the  Southern 
States  mission. 


ELDER  EPHRAIM  H.  NYE. 


43 


I  will  say,  in  brief,  that  the  Southern 
States  mission  was  cut  down  to  its 
present  proportions  last  June.  It  now 
constitutes  the  states  of  Mississippi, 
Alabama.  Georgia,  Florida  and  North 
and  South  Carolina.  There  are  about 
100  Elders  laboring  there — good,  earn- 
est, faithful,  hardworking  men — your 
brothers,  your  sons,  your  fathers,  but 
not  many  of  your  fathers.  We  would 
like  to  have  more  of  the  fathers.  We 
have  some  faithful  Saints  in  the  South- 
ern States  mission.  We  also  have  some 
.good  friends,  strong  and  influential.  We 
are  concentrating  our  efforts  in  the 
cities,  and  are  meeting  with  good  suc- 
cess. We  have  the  promise  of  protec- 
tion by  the  mayors  and  chiefs  of  police, 
and  in  most  of  the  cities  in  which  we 
are  laboring-,  some  19  or  20,  we  have 
the  privilege  of  preaching  on  the 
streets.  It  is  true  that  we  have  some 
enemies. 

It  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  be  much 
among  the  children  of  men  preaching 
the  Gospel,  and  I  have  noted  one  thing 
to  which  I  wish  to  call  your  attention, 
by  way  of  camparison,  between  the  God 
we  worship  and  the  God  worshiped  in 
the  Christian  world,  and  their  form  of 
worship.  I  have  visited  a  good  many 
churches  and  have  listened  to  their 
sermons.  One  of  the  things  that  strikes 
me  most  forcibly  is  that  they  are  al- 
ways talking  of  a  "merciful  God," 
pleading  His  "wonderful  mercies," 
teaching  His  "mercies,"  calling  for  His 
"mercies."  We  seldom  if  ever  hear  them 
talk  about  anything  else,  but  'the  long- 
suffering  and  mercies  of  God."  I  want  to 
ask  you:  Do  you  often  hear  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  talk  about  the  mercies  of 
God?  Have  you  heard  a  single  word 
thus  far  during  this  confernce,  from 
the  servants  of  the  living  God,  concern- 
ing His  mercies?  No;  and  why?  Be- 
cause the  Lord  has  given  us  something1 
better.  Not  only  is  the  God  of  heaven, 
whom  the  Latter-day  Saints  worship,  a 
merciful  God,  but  He  is  something  else. 
I  want  to  speak  of  that  something  else 
in  the  view  that  I  take  of 
it.  He  is  a  God  of  justice;  fur- 
thermore, He  is  a  most  munificent 
giver  of  great  and  wonderful  gifts.  I 
call  your  attention  to  some  of  those 
gifts:  He  gave  us  a  Prophet,  in-  the 
person  of  Joseph  Smith,  to  reveal  to  us 
His  mind  and  will;  He  has  continued 


to  give  us  a  Prophet  to  lead  and  guide 
us,  even  to  this  day.  This  is  certain- 
ly a  great  and  wonderful  gift.  It  might 
well  be  said  among  the  children  of  men 
in  the  Christian  world,  "O  for  a  Proph- 
et of  the  Living  God,"  providing  they 
could  only  comprehend  the  great  bless- 
ing it  would  be  to  them.  Not  only  has 
He  given  us  a  Prophet,  but  Prophets, 
and  further,  Apostles;  men  after  his 
own  heart,  men  of  God,  filled  with  the 
Spirit  of  God,  Prophets  of  the  Mcst 
High,  to  guide  and  direct  us.  Are  these 
mercies?  No;  they  are  grand  and 
wonderful  gifts,  gifts  such  as  the  world" 
knows  nothing  of.  We  are  not  yet 
obliged  to  plead  for  mercy.  Next,  we 
come  down  to  such  men  as  we  have 
been  listening-  to  during  the  sessions  of 
this  conference — Presidents  of  Stakes. 
They  are  grand  gifts,  as  are  also  their 
counselors  and  the  Bishops,  and  all  the 
directing  officers  in  the  ministry,  at 
home.  They  are  grand  gifts  whom  God 
has  given  us  to  guide  us  through  the 
dark  ways  of  life,  to  lead  us  out  of 
darkness  into  the  glorious  light  of  eter- 
nal truth.  These  are  not  mercies,  they 
are  gifts,  such  as  we  do  not  always  ap- 
preciate, perhaps.  Perhaps  we  do  not 
always  comprehend  how  great  these 
gifts  are;  perhaps  we  do  not  always  re- 
vere or  treat  those  men  as  we  should 
in  their  lot  and  calling.  Then  we  have 
the  various  ramifications  in  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  which  Priesthood  is  also  a 
wonderful  gift,  as  are  the  blessings 
that  we  derive  through  its  administra- 
tions. 

I  also  desire  to  refer  to  His  favors, 
because  He  is  a  God  of  favors.  It  Is 
a  favor  to  be  called  to  the  Priesthood 
as  a  Teacher,  and  to  be  required  to  la- 
bor in  that  capacity  under  the  direction 
of  any  Bishop.  It  is  an  especial  favor 
granted  to  every  man  who  is  called  to 
an  office  in  the  Holy  Priesthood,  and  to 
have  that  Priesthood  bestowed  upon 
him.  It  is  a  favor  from  the  Lord  to  be 
called  and  sent  forth  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel in  foreign  lands,  or  wherever  it  may. 
It  is  a  special  blessing  that  God  has 
given  them;  and  if  they  will  accept  it 
as  a  favor  and  feel  grateful  to  the 
Lord  for  the  same,  going  forth  and 
magnifying  their  calling,  they  will  reap 
great  and  grand  blessings,  beyond  their 
present  powers  to  fully  comprehend. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON, 
(President  of  the  California  Mission.) 

When  I  hear  the  reports  of  the  El- 
ders of  Zion,  indicating  how  she  has 
prospered, how  her  borders  have  length- 
ened and  been  strengthened,  I  feel  like 
exclaiming  as  did  Balaam  of  old  when 
he  beheld  the  multitude  of  the  children 
of  Israel:  "How  goodly  are  thy  tents, 
O  Jacob,  and  thy  tabernacles,  O  Israel!" 
To  know  that  the  wilderness  has  blos- 
somed as  the  rose,  that  the  desert  has 
become  as  the  garden  of  the  Lord,  and 
that  joy,  peace,  thanksgiving  and  mel- 
ody are  found  therein;  is  not 
this  blessed?  Should  we  not  be  grate- 
ful? I  tell  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  we  who  have  been  away  from 
you  for  some  time,  who  have  met  with 
the  sinister  spirit  of  the  world,  are 
made  to  rejoice,  and  our  souls  are  filled 
with  joy.  Our  spirits  are  refreshed, 
and  we  are  built  up  again  in  our  faith 
upon  hearing  the  testimonies  of  our 
brethren,  and  again  looking  into  your 
faces  and  feeling  the  grasp  of  the  hands 
of  our  brethren  and  sisters. 

The  California  mission  comprises  the 
states  of  Nevada  and  California  and 
the  western  part  of  Oregon.  The  lat- 
ter, however,  has  been  added  to  the 
mission  since  my  presence  in  Zion, 
making  the  mission  over  1,700  miles  in 
length.  In  California,  particularly, 
we  have  but  a  few  Saints.  "We  can  on- 
ly make  converts  fast  enough  to  replace 
those  who  come  to  Zion,  in  spite  of 
the  fact  that  we  do  not  preach  to  them 
to  gather.  "We  would  rather  have  them 
stay  with  us  to  strengthen  the  branches 
in  that  land;  but,  as  President  Rich 
has  said,  the  spirit  of  gathering  comes 
upon  them  when  they  have  taken  upon 
them  the  name  of  th  e  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  He  has  said  that  He  would 
gather  them  from  the  east  and  from 
the  west,  that  He  would  say  to  the 
north,  give  up,  and  to  the  south  keep 
not  back;  bring  my  sons  from  afar  and 
my  daughters  from  the  ends  of  the 
earth,  even  so  many  as  have  taken  upon 
them  my  name. 

The  Californians,  as  the  people  of  the 
west,  are  not  a  religious  people.  Our 
converts  are  made  largely  among  the 
foreigners,  and  among  people  who  have 
gone  there  from  the  eastern  states.  A 


few  native  Californians  have  come  into 
the  Church,  whose  fathers  and  mothers 
drifted  away  from  the  Church  in  early 
days,  when  this  place  was,  as  it  now  is, 
as  a  threshing  floor,  and  the  unfilled 
grains  of  wheat  are  blown  away.  Some 
of  the  sons  and  daughters  have  had 
the  faith  with  them,  and  have  heard 
the  shepherd's  voice  and  have  come 
into  the  fold. 

Our  efforts  during  the  winter  were 
largely  hampered  on  account  of  sick- 
ness. Many  of  the  Elders  have  had 
typhoid  fever,  or  smallpox;  but,  thanks 
to  God,  in  His  mercy  He  has  preserved 
us,  and  most  all  of  the  members  of 
the  Church  as  well  as  our  Elders  now 
have  health  and  strength.and  our  pros- 
pects are  again  bright,  and  our  souls 
have  been  made  glad  by  a  few  coming 
into  the  fold.  ■ 

We  were  recently  strengthened  and 
encouraged  by  a  visit  of  some  300 
Utahns,  including  80  or  90  mem- 
bers of  the  Tabernacle  choir.  With 
them,  we  had  the  privilege  of  meeting 
with  about  such  a  congregation  as  we 
have  here  today,  in  the  Alhambra  thea- 
ter, San  Francisco,  two  weeks  ago  to- 
night. Not  many  people  get  to  hear 
of  us  this  way,  and  the  influence  of  our 
visitors  does  not  extend  as  far  as  we 
would  like.  It  is  but  as  a  drop  in  a 
bucket  for  fifteen  or  eighteen  hundred 
persons  in  a  city  of  400,000  to  hear  the 
testimonies  of  the  Elders.  But  we  are 
bearing  testimony  daily  on  the  streets 
and  are  distributing  thousands  of 
tracts,  leaving  the  responsibility  of  a 
testimony  of  the  restored  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  on  thousands  of  peo- 
ple. In  addition  to  doing  this,  we  are 
making  men  of  the  boys  who  have  gone 
into  the  field.  They  are  receiving  tes- 
timonies of  the  truth,  and  are  contrast- 
ing and  comparing  the  completeness  of 
our  Gospel  with  the  man-made  systems 
of  the  day,  and  noting  how  unsatisfac- 
tory the  sectarian  gospel  is  to  those 
who  have  espoused  it,  who  do  not  know 
the  truthfulness  of  the  saying  of  St. 
Paul,  that  "the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation."  They  make  money  their 
god,  and  pleasure  its  counterpart,  not 
knowing  the  peace  and  joy  that  comes 
to  those  who  are  rich  in  a  knowledge 
of  heavenly  things.     I  think  the  cause 


4 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


45 


of  the  disregard  for  religion  by  the  peo- 
ple of  th»*  te  is  largely  their  pleas- 
ant environments  and  the  wealth  of  that 
land.  Next  to  this  is  the  individual- 
ism of  the  people,  who  interpret  the 
Scriptures  for  themselves  and  care  not 
for  authorit--  for  prophets  or  revela- 
tion. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters; may  peace  be  in  your  homes; 
may  you  cleave  fast  to  the  covenants 
you  have  made,  and  be  true  to  your- 
selves, to  your  brethren  and  to  your 
God,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

,^,„tmm       "O. How  Amiable." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder 
Hyrum  M.  Smith. 


SUNDAY  AFTERNOON. 

Sunday,  2  p.  m. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem, 

"In  Our  Redeemer's  Name." 

The   opening    prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  John  Nicholson. 
The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

"God  of  Israel,  Hear  our  Prayers." 

RULON  S.  WELLS. 

The  Bible  and  Book  of  Mormon— Both  true — 
Latter  fresh  from  pen  of  Prophet — Word  of  the 
Lord  today  Is  "get  out  of  debt" — Seventies 
willing  to  go  on  missions — Many  hindered  by 
debt. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  sincerely 
hope  that  I  may  be  sustained  by  your 
faith  and  prayers.  As  one  of  the  presi- 
dents of  stakes  was  coming  upon  the 
stand  this  afternoon,  after  having  been 
invited  by  President  Smith,  he  stopped 
and  shook  hands  with  myself  and 
Brother  McMurrin,  and  asked  that  we 
pray  for  him.  In  standing  before  you 
hero  I  feel  like  shaking  hands  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  asking  them  to 
pray  for  me,  because  I  believe  that  the 
prayers  of  the  Saints  are  heard  by  our 
Heavenly  Father,  when  they  are  of- 
fered up  in  faith. 

Brother  Kimball  made  reference  this 
morning  to  the  Bible,  and  I  am  remind- 
ed of  an  article  of    our  faith,  which 


says  that  we  believe  the  Bible  to  be 
the  word  of  God,  as  far  as  it  is  trans- 
lated correctly.  We  also  believe  the 
Book  of  Mormon  to  be  the  word  of  God. 
While  he  was  quoting  this  article  of 
our  belief,  the  thought  came  into  my 
mind,  how  often  has  it  been  quoted  in 
the  mission  field,  and  how  frequently 
have  our  enemies  and  those  who  have 
not  accepted  our  faith  criticised  us  in 
making  reference  to  the  Bible  and 
qualifying  it  by  saying  that  we  believe 
it  as  far  as  it  is  translated  correctly. 
"O  yes,"  say  they,  "you  Latter-day 
Saints  believe  the  Bible  when  it  is  con- 
venient for  you  to  accept  of  it,  but 
when  it  is  not  convenient,  then  you  fall 
back  upon  the  provision  which  says  "as 
far  as  it  is  translated  correctly."  In 
giving  this  article  of  faith  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  was  inspired  by  our 
Heavenly  Father.  Suppose  for  a  mo- 
ment that  he  had  left  out  that  condi- 
tion. The  question  would  at  once  arise, 
Which  Bible  do  you  Latter-day  Saints 
believe  in?  Do  you  believe  in  the  King 
James  translation  of  the  Bible,  or  do 
you  believe  in  the  revised  edition?  Do 
you  accept  the  Catholic  Bible,  or  the 
one  that  was  translated  by  Martin 
Luther  in  the  German  language?  There 
are  a  great  many  different  editions  of 
the  holy  scriptures;  which  of  these  Bi- 
bles do  you  believe  in?  because  in  many 
particulars  the  translations  are  at  vari- 
ance, and  do  not  always  agree.  There 
was  inspiration  in  the  putting  in  of 
that  condition.  We  believe  the  Bible 
to  be  the  word  of  God,  as  far  as  it  is 
translated  correctly;  and  when  it  has 
not  been  translated  correctly,  we  do 
not  believe  in  that.  To  all  intents  and 
purposes,  however,  the  Bible  which  is 
common  among  us  is  accepted  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints  as  the  word  of  God. 
When  you  refer  to  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
however,  you  say  that  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  the  word  of  God,  without 
any  qualification. 

Now,  what  is  it  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  believe  in?  We  believe  that 
holy  men  of  old  spake  and  wrote  as 
they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  that  which  they  spoke  and 
wrote  was  the  word  of  God;  and  if  that 
has  been  handed  down  to  us  in  its 
purity,  we  accept  it  as  being  the  word 
of  God.     The  Book  of  Mormon  comes 


46 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


to  us  fresh  from  the  pen  of  the  prophet, 
and  was  translated  under  the  inspira- 
tion of  our  Heavenly  Father  by  one 
whom    He  raised  up  for  that  purpose. 
Consequently  we  can  accept  it  without 
qualification  as  being  the  word  of  God. 
We  also  believe  in  the  Book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  because  it  con- 
tains the  predictions    of  the  prophets 
and  the  revelations  of  God  delivered 
unto  this  people  by  the  living  oracles 
upon  the  earth  in  this  day  and  age 
of  the  world.  We  read  in  the  scriptures 
that  man  shall  not  live  by  bread  alone, 
but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  out 
of  the  mouth  of  God.     The  Latter-day 
Saints  understand  that  the  Lord  will 
yet  reveal  many  things  pertaining  to 
the  upbuilding  of  His  kingdom  upon 
the  earth.     In  other  words,  we  believe 
in  learning  the  will  of  God  through 
the  proper  channels,  and  then  to  do  it. 
That  is  our  creed,  our  faith.     We  have 
among  us  the  living  oracles  of  God.  The 
mouthpiece  of    the    Lord    has  spoken 
to  us   at    the   beginning   of   this  con- 
ference,   and   in   his   remarks  he  gave 
unto      us     the     word  of    the  Lord. 
He    gave      us    counsel    upon  certain 
things  that'  are  of  great  importance  to 
the  Latter-day    Saints,    and    we  will 
do    well    to     heed     the    counsel  of 
God  as  it  is    delivered    unto  us.  I 
take  this  lesson  to  myself,  and  I  believe 
it  ought  to  be  the  feeling  of  every  Lat- 
ter-day Saint,  to  hearken  to  the  warn- 
ing voice.    As  Latter-day  Saints,  we 
pray  unto  our  Heavenly  Father  that 
the  President  of  this  Church  may  re- 
ceive wisdom  from  on  high,  and  the  in- 
spiration of  His  Holy  Spirit  and  the 
revelations  of  His  mind  and  will,  that 
we  may  be  guided  and  directed  in  the 
ways  of  all  truth.    How  willing,  there- 
fore, and  how  eager  we  ought  to  be  to 
hearken  unto  his  words  and  carry  them 
out  in  our  daily  lives.    The  great  spec- 
tacle that  I  see  before  me  this  after- 
noon is  an  evidence  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  eager  to  hear  the  words 
of  the  servants    of  God.     No  doubt, 
many  have  come  today  with  the  expec- 
tation   of    hearing   the    voice  of  the 
mouthpiece  of  God.   But  "what  would  it 
avail  unto  us  unless  we  tried  to  carry 
out  his  advice  and  counsel? 

Whatever  may  arise  as  a  hindrance  to 
the  work  of  the  Lord  ought  to  be  dis- 


pensed with,  and  that  which  interferes 
with  the  performance  of  our  duty  ought 
to  be  set  aside.    The  adversary  of  the 
souls  of  men  is  striving  with  all  his 
might    to  thwart  the    purposes   of  our 
Heavenly  Father;  but  in  no  particular 
do  I  think  that  he  has  had  greater  in- 
fluence upon  the  people  at  large  than 
he  has  in  taking  advantage  of  theirtveak 
nesses  by  persuading  them:  to  go  beyond 
their  means  and  into  debt.   It  does  not 
necessarily  require  a  wicked  man  to 
yield  to  that  influence  at  times.  We  are 
all  more  or  less  susceptible  to  it.  Even 
some  of  the  characteristics  of  our  peo- 
ple which  are  to  be  commended— that, 
for  example,  of  being  unselfish  and  will- 
ing to  let  go  of  the  substance  that  has 
come  into  our  hands,  have  sometimes 
been  a  means  that  the  adversary  has 
employed  to  lead  our  people  into  debt. 
We  have  received,  as  has  already  been 
stated,  a  great  many  letters  from  the 
Seventies  whose  names  have  been  sug- 
gested for  missions  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  and  the  great  majority  of  those 
letters  have  brought  with  them  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel.  The  brethren  have 
shown  a  willingness  to  respond  to  every 
call,  and  many  of  them  have  set  forth 
their  circumstances,   but  have  closed 
their  letters  wtih  a  statement  some- 
thing like  this:  "These  are  my  circum. 
stances.    I  do  not  offer  excuses.  I  am 
willing  to  go  into  the  mission  field, 
and  lift  up  my  voice  and  cry  repentance 
unto  this  generation.    I  am  willing  to 
leave  my  home,  because  I  know  this  is 
the    work    of  the    Lord."  They  have 
thereby  placed  the  responsibility  upon 
the  authorities  of  the  Church  to  decide 
whether  or  not  they  should  go.  Not- 
withstanding this,  there  has  been  no 
disposition  to  work  any  hardship  upon 
the  Seventies  or  the  brethren  suggested 
for  missions,  and  many  of  them  have 
been  excused    when    we  have  known 
their   circumstances.     Over  100  have 
been  released  on  account  of  their  finan- 
cial condition.    Thus  the  going  in  debt 
has  been  a  hindrance  to  the  work  of  the 
Lord.    It    has  hindered    the  brethren 
from  going  out  and  magnifying  their 
callings.    It  has  been  the  means  of  de- 
priving them  of  privileges  which  they 
might  enjoy  if  they  were  only  free. 
Those  who  are  encumbered  with  debt, 
indeed,  know  what  it  is  to  be  in  bond- 


ELDER  HYRUM  GOFP. 


47 


age.  It  is  a  block  in  the  way  of  their 
magnifying  their  calling  and  responding 
to  a  call  that  would  bring  to  them  great 
joy  and  blessing.  Oh!  how  willing  we 
ought  to  be,  and  how  careful  to  over- 
come the  difficulties  that  stand  between 
us  and  the  performance  of  our  duty. 

I  ask  the  Lord  to  abundantly  bless 
His  people,  and  to  bless  all  those  who 
are  striving  to  live  by  every  word  that 
cometh  forth  from  the  mouths  of  the 
prophets.  May  the  Lord  lead  us  to  do 
His  "will  and  keep  His  commandments, 
that  thereby  we  may  keep  pace  with 
the  work  of  the  Lord  and  do  our  part 
in  helping  to  roll  it  on,  is  my  prayer  in 
i  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  GOFF. 
(President  of  Jordan  Stake.) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is 
the  first  time  in  my  life  I  have  been 
called  upon  to  address  so  large  an  audi- 
ence. I  rely  upon  the  Spirit  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  to  sustain  me;  for  I 
realize  tha't  I  am  surrounded  by  some 
of  the  best  men  upon  the  earth.  In 
arising  to  represent  the  Jordan  Stake 
of  Zion,  I  do  so  with  great  pleasure. 
Our  stake  is  yet  in  its  infancy,  being 
only  about  three  years  and  three 
months  old.  It  is  located  in  the  south- 
ern end  of  this  county.  Its  area  is 
about  15  by  30  miles.  We  have  13 
wards,  and  I  believe  all  the  organiza- 
tions that  we  have  been  called  upon  to 
establish  are  fully  organized.  I  take 
great  pleasure  in  representing  our  Sun- 
day schools.  They  are  in  a  very  good, 
flourishing  condition;  also  our  Mutual 
Improvement  associations.  Those  who 
have  been  called  upon  to  pres'de  over 
these  organizations  are  faithful  men 
and  women,  who  observe  the  law  of 
tithing,  and,  I  believe,  the  Word  of 
Wisdom;  for  these  are  two  of  the  qual- 
ifications required  of  them.  We  desire 
those  who  represent  these  young  peo- 
ple's associations  to  strictly  adhere  to 
these  things,  that  they  may  set  an  ex- 
ample to  the  others.  I  have  had  called 
to  my  assistance  two  worthy  men  as 
counselors.  We  are' working  together 
in  perfect  harmony.  Our  High  Coun- 
cilors are  men  of  God,  who  are  willing 


to  sacrifice  their  time  and  talents  to- 
promulgate  the  Gospel  in  our  Stake. 
They  are- willing,  when  called  upon,  to 
do  missionary  labor  in  the  various 
wards,  and  labor  with  the  people  at 
their  firesides,  holding  cottage  meet- 
ings, etc.  This  has  proved  a  great 
blessing  to  us,  and  we  feel  that  great 
good  will  come  of  it.  We  have  many 
aged  people  who  are  not  able  to  at- 
tend public  gatherings  much,  and  it  is 
our  privilege  to  carry  to  them  the  joy 
and  satisfaction  that  we  have  in  the 
Gospel.  We  have  many  good,  faithful 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  we  have  some 
to  whom  it  is  necessary  to  preach  re- 
pentance. I  have  taken  great  pleasure 
myself  in  visiting  the  homes  of  the 
Saints  in  the  various  wards.  I  desire 
to  say  that  we  have  a  good  people 
there,  and  that  we  are  enjoying  the 
spirit  of  our  religion  to  a  goodly  ex- 
tent. We  have  what  is  termed  civil- 
ization with  us.  It  should  be  "unciv- 
ilization."  Out  of  our  13  wards  we  have 
10  that  have  no  saloons;  but  I  am  sorry 
to  report  that  in  the  other  three  we 
have  enough  to  supply  all  the  rest. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  take  pleas- 
ure in  testifying  to  you  that  I  know 
this  is  the  work  of  God.  I  have  a  tes- 
timony of  it.  When  I  got  that  testi- 
mony I  do  not  know;  for  something 
over  53  years  age  I  was  born  in  the 
Church,  and  that  testimony  seems  to 
have  .been  born  within  me.  I  desire 
that  this  testimony  may  be  increased 
within  me,  and  I  know  that  it  will  as 
long  as  I  am  on  the  road  of  progress 
and  intelligence.  The  more  I  learn  of 
the  Gospel,  the  stronger  becomes  my 
testimony,  and  I  believe  that  is  the 
case  with  all  of  us.  I  wish  to  testify 
that  it  is  through  the  power  of  the  Al- 
mighty that  I  am  here  today;  for  I 
know,  had  it  not  been  for  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood,  I  should  have  been 
gone  hence  before  now.  I  feel  a  desire 
in  my  heart  to  testify  to  the  goodness 
of  my  Heavenly  Father  in  this  line.  I 
pray  God  to  bless  the  faithful  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  to  stir  up  those  who  are 
not  so  faithful  to  renewed  diligence.  I 
ask  these  blessings,  with  all  others  that 
are  necessary  for  us  to  prove  true  to 
the  end,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  COLLINS  R.  HAKES, 
(President  of  Maricopa  Stake.) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
standing  before  you  for  a  few  moments 
I  earnestly  desire  your  faith  and  pray- 
ers, to  the  end  that  we  may  Be  blessed 
in  the  time  that  I  occupy. 

For  twenty  years,  the  22nd  of  this 
month,  I  have  been  connected  with  the 
Maricopa  Stake  of  Zion,  which  is  situ- 
ated in  the  heart  of  the  Arizona  desert 
— the  territory  that  we  called  the  sun- 
kissed  land.  I  have  learned  to  love 
that  land;  I  have  learned  to  love  the 
climate;  I  have  learned  to  love  many 
of  the  people  in  that  country.  While 
our  stake  is  one  of  the  smallest,  if  not 
the  smallest,  in  all  Zion,  we  have  many 
good,  staunch,  thorough  Latter-day 
Saints  in  that  little  stake — men  and 
women  who  are  seeking  "first  the  king- 
dom of  God  and  His  righteousness,-' 
and  who  have  faith  that  God  in  His 
mercy  will  add  all  things  that  are 
necessary.  But  we  are  not  all  of  that 
type.  We  have  others  that  are  not  so 
full  of  faith  and  good  works.  We  have 
the  company  of  almost  everything,  in 
the  shape  of  saloons,  and  orders,  and 
societies  that  are  not  of  God,  to  con- 
tend with;  but  the  majority  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  our  little  stake  get 
along  with  the  saloons  by  simply  letting 
them  alone,  and  we  get  along  with  our 
neighbors  of  the  different  societies  by 
treating  them  with  kindness  and  cour- 
tesy, but  not  affiliating  with  their  or- 
ganizations. As  a  rule,  they  treat  us  in 
about  the  same  way.  We  have  in  that 
country,  I  think,  one  of  the  most  fer- 
tile and  productive  pieces  of  land  that 
can  be  found  within  the  bounds  of  the 
United  States.  We  are  lacking  one  ele- 
ment— water  for  irrigation  purposes; 
but  it  certainly  looks  now  as  though 
that  question  was  about  to  be  solved  in 
our  country  and  a  supply  of  water  pro- 
vided sufficient  to  make  that  one  of 
the  most  beautiful  spots  of  the  earth. 
We  have  every  prospect  of  having  it 
at  an  early  date.  Let  me  say  that  while 
many  of  our  people  have  within  the 
past  few  months  pulled  out  of  that 
country  and  gone  to  other  parts,  I  feel 
in  my  heart  that  it  will  be  many  years 
before  they  are  any  more  comfortably 
situated  for  making  a  living  for  them- 
selves and  families  than  they  were  in 


Mesa,  Arizona.  This  was  the  feeling  1 
had  the  other  day  when  I  separated 
from  a  company  of  fourteen  who  came 
with  me  as  far  as  Ogden,  and  who  were 
going  into  Montana,  Canada  and  Idaho, 
seeking  homes.  I  hope  that  they  may 
be  blessed,  so  far  as  the  Lord  sees  fit 
to  bless  them  and  to  give  them  better 
places  than  they  have  left.  We  sow  our 
wheat  in  November  and  December,  and 
we  reap  it  in  May  and  June,  and  when 
we  have  water  we  get  from  forty  to 
fifty  bushels  to  the  acre.  We  put  our 
stock  upon  the  stubble  until  the  middle 
of  July,  and  then,  if  we  have  water,  we 
plant  corn  and  fall  crops;  and  in  our 
second  crop  we  can  get  just  as  good  a 
yield  of  corn  as  is  got  in  almost  any 
country.  But  these  possibilities  are 
only  when  the  water  supply  is  there. 

I  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
want  to  breathe  good  warm  air,  come 
down  to  Arizona.  We  will  give  you  a 
warm  reception — especially  if  you  come 
in  July  and  August.  I  came  here  a  lit- 
tle early  this  morning,  and  stood  out- 
side before  the  doors  were  opened.  Some 
of  my  friends  were  admiring  the  beau- 
tiful fresh  and  bracing  breezes  that 
were  coming  in  from  these  snowelad 
hills,  and  I  thought  that  If  I  only  had 
power  to  bring  down  a  few  thousand 
cubic  feet  of  Arizona  weather  and 
spread  it  out  here,  it  would  be  a  great 
benefit.  But  to  me,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  it  does  not  matter  where  I  live; 
it  does  not  matter  a  great  deal  how 
long  I  live;  but  it  does  matter  a  great 
deal  how  I  live.  I  believe  that  God  is 
able  to  adapt  us  to  the  elements  of  the 
country  where  the  servants  of  God 
wish  us  to  reside;  and  I  believe  that 
the  men  and  women  who  are  filled  with 
the  Spirit  of  God  are  filled  with  the 
spirit  of  contentment,  and  that  they 
will  seek  after  the  kingdom  of  God  and 
His  righteousness  in  any  land  or  clime, 
hot  or  cold.  If  you  want  a  healthful 
clime,  we  have  it  in  Arizona.  I  believe 
we  have  as  many  days  of  sunshine  in 
that  country  as  there  is  in  any  land.  We 
will  positively  agree  not  to  freeze  you; 
but  we  will  give  you  plenty  of  good 
warm  air  to  breathe,  plenty  of  room  to 
labor,  and  a  country  that  under  the 
blessings  of  God  and  the  toil  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  will  yield  of  its  ful- 
ness, as  results  to  the  farmer. 

May    God    bless  all    Israel  in  every 


ELDERS  DANIEL  HBINER  AND  J.  S.  PAGE,  JR. 


Clime,  and  prosper  His  work,  and  bless 
His  servants  with  the  power  of  the  holy 
Priesthood,  that  Zion  may  grow  and 
spread  abroad  and  her  borders  be 
stengthened,  is  my  desire  and  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  DANIEL  HEINER. 
(President  of  Morgan  Stake.) 
If  the  Lord  will  bless  me  with  His 
spirit  and  give  me  strength,  I  will  be 
pleased  to  say  a  few  words  in  reporting 
the  Morgan  Stake.  The  Morgan  Stake 
is  comparatively  small.  Brother  Hakes 
stated  that  he  had  one  of  the  smallest 
Stakes.  I  have  been  thinking  that  we 
had  almost  the  smallest  in  the  Church. 
We  live  in  a  very  small  valley,  but  the 
soil  is  very  fertile.  The  Presidency  of 
the  Stake  feel  that  they  have  a  very 
good  people.  The  Priesthood  of  Mor- 
gan Stake  are  becoming  more  united, 
and  the  prospect  for  the  spiritual 
growth  of  the  people  is  very  favorable. 
The  Presidency  of  the  Stake  are  united. 
We  meet  once  a  week.  My  counselors 
understand  just  about  as  much  of  the 
condition  of  the  stake  as  I  do.  I  have 
two  very  good  counselors.  The  same 
may  be  said  of  the  High  Council.  Our 
financial  condition  is  improving.  The 
people  are  just  beginning,  I  believe, 
to  find  out  the  value  of  their  homes.  I 
think  the  homes  in  Weber  valley  have, 
in  the  estimation  of  the  people  there, 
increased  in  value  100  per  cent  within 
the  last  year  or  two.  It  is  probably 
due  to  the  people  cultivating  the  land 
more  thoroughly  and  making  better  use 
of  their  time  and  opportunities.  The 
organizations  in  the  Stake,  such  as  the 
Sunday  school,  we  are  very  proud  of. 
We  feel  that  there  is  an  extra  good 
work  being  done  in  the  Sunday  schools 
and  in  the  Mutual  Improvement  associ- 
ations. I  am  happy  to  say  that  every- 
thing is  favorable  in  the  Stake,  al- 
though we  have  some  people  that  are  a 
long  way  off  from  being  as  good  as 
they  ought  to  be;  but  the  Presidency 
of  the  Stake  are  encouraged  by  the  pros- 
pects." I  thank  the  Lord  for  a  living 
fpstimony  of  the  Gospel.  I  thank  Him 
that  He  blessed  me  witn  gooaiy  parents, 
who  taught  me  the  Gospel,  and  that  He 
gave  me  faith  in  the  Gospel,  so  much  so 
that  I  have  a  living  testimony,  which 


comforts  me  all  my  days.  I  ask  the 
Lord  to  bless  the  people  in  the  Morgan 
Stake  and  in  the  whole  Church,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  S.  PAGE,  JR. 
(President  of  Nebo  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  for  a  good 
many  years  I  have  been  in  the  habit 
of  attending  the  annual  and  semi-an- 
nual conferences  of  the  Church,  but 
have  sat  in  the  congregation  and  look- 
ed from  there  in  this  direction,  and  I 
must  confess  that  I  had  grown  to  feel 
much  more  at  home  than  I  do  standing 
here  facing  you.  At  the  same  time  it 
is  an  inspiring  spectacle  to  see  this 
large  number  from  among  the  hosts  of 
Israel,  gathered  together  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord.  It  gives  one  some  impression 
of  the  strength  of  the  work  that  the 
Lord  is  accomplishing  upon  the  earth, 
and  we  take  strength  from  one  another 
in  thus  assembling.  In  standing  before 
you  for  a  short  time  to  represent  the 
affairs  in  the  Nebo  Stake  of  Zion,  I  do 
so  in  humility  and  with  a  desire  to  have 
utterance  given  me  of  the  Lord  for  this 
purpose.  The  Priesthood  of  that  Stake 
are  engaged  in  preaching  the  Gospel  as 
recorded  in  the  scriptures,  which  were 
written  by  holy  men  of  God  as  they 
were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost. 
They  are  endeavoring  to  realize  the  ef- 
ficacy of  the  atonement  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  to  understand  our  rela- 
tionship to  Him,  and  our  dependence 
upon  His  atonement  and  labor.  We 
are  endeavoring  also  to  honor  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  an  instrument 
of  God,  who  was  called  to  establish  Zion 
in  the  last  days,  and  through  whom  the 
Gospel  was  restored,  with  the  authority 
to  administer  its  ordinances;  to  also 
honor  those  who  have  succeeded  him  in 
the  Presidency,  and  to  realize  that  their 
words  spoken  by  the  inspiration  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  are  the  words  of  God  unto 
His  people.  In  addition  to  this,  we  are1 
trying  to  have  every  man  who  holds  a 
portion  of  the  Priesthood  honor  the  of. 
fice  and  station  in  which  he  is  called  to 
labor  and  magnify  the  Priesthood  that 
has  been  placed  upon  him.  In  doing 
this  we  have  taken  pains  that  not  one 
young  man  of  sufficient  years  should  be 
overlooked,  but  that  all  should  have 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  opportunity  to  labor  according  to 
their  capacity  and  desire,  that  they  may 
not  rise  up  in  later  days  and  say  that 
the  doorway  to  progress  and  advance- 
ment had  been  closed  in  their  face  by 
those  whose  duty  it  was  to  open  it.  The 
Priesthood  are  also  trying  to  inculcate 
the  principles  of  faith,  humility,  obedi- 
ence, and  a  seeking  after  the  things  of 
God,  in  order  that  they  may  have  the 
Spirit  of  God  to  be  a  companion  and 
guide,  that  we  may  all  realize  that 
light  has  come  into  the  world,  and  that 
we  may  walk  according  to  that  light, 
and  continue  to  be  in  companionship 
with  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  believe  I  can 
say  with  truth  that  the  very  great  ma- 
jority of  the  Priesthood  are  striving  to 
labor  for  the  establishment  of  Zion  up- 
on the  earth,  and  to  be  enabled  to  give 
a  good  report  of  the  work  that  is  placed 
in  their  hands  to  accomplish.  This  can 
be  said,  too,  of  those  who  preside  over 
and  labor  in  the  auxiliary  societies  of 
the  Church.  As  a  rule,  they  are  zealous 
and  earnest.  The  interest  of  the  re- 
ligion class  work  particularly  comes  to 
my  mind  at  this  time.  It  is  something 
that  we  have  not  given  as  much  atten- 
tion to  as  some  other  branches  of  the 
work;  but  with  its  development  in  our 
midst  we  begin  to  appreciate  the  bless- 
ing of  the  Lord  in  having  this  establish- 
ed among  us,  and  we  look  for  great 
good  to  come  therefrom.  It  is  coming 
to  be  loved  by  the  people.  The  Priest- 
hood of  the  stake  are  working  together 
in  harmony  from  first  to  last,  so  far  as 
I  am  acquainted,  with  a  desire  to  be 
humble,  to  be  led  by  the-  Holy  Spirit, 
and  to  labor  according  to  the  counsels 
of  the  Prophet  of  God  and  to  sustain 
those  who  preside  over  us.  That  we 
may  be  able  to  continue  to  do  so,  and 
that  the  blessings  of  God  may  be  upon 
all  the  Church  in  every  part  of  the 
earth,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  M.  TANNER. 
Development  of  Church  school  system — Efforts  in 
the  direction  of  manual  training — Beneficent 
effects  of  technical  instruction — Its  application 
to  agriculture — A  local  scientific  expert. 

I  have  enjoyed  very  much  the  spirit 
and  instructions  of  this  Conference,  and 
I  trust  that  I  may  have  your  interest 
while  I  report  the  work  that  has  been 


placed  in  my  charge.  We  have  an  or- 
ganization which  we  call  the  Church 
schools.  Twenty  of  these  institutions 
are  located  in  Utah,  Arizona,  Idaho  and 
Old  Mexico.  They  are  attended  by  about 
5,000  of  our  young  people,  and  the  in- 
crease of  late  has  been  quite  marked. 
Last  year  we  had  940  students  more 
than  the  preceding  year. 

I  was  very  gratified  yesterday  to  hear 
President  Smith  speak  upon  some  mat- 
ters of  education  to  the  people  at  large, 
and  manifest  to  them  the  same  desire 
that  he  has  manifested  to  the  Church 
board  of  education  and  the  ooard  of  ex. 
aminers.  I  am  very  pleased  to  say  that 
•we  are  making  special  efforts  to  intro- 
duce manual  training  into  these  schools. 
In  Salt  Lake  City — and  what  is  true 
of  this  city  is  true  of  other  places— we 
have  hundreds  of  young  men  who  leave 
the  schoolroom  during  the  summer  sea- 
son, and  for  three  or  four  months  are 
without  employment,  left  to  pastime 
that  leads  them  into  idleness  and  fre- 
quently into  frivolous  lives.  The  ques- 
tion arose  as  to  what  should  be  done 
with  these  young  people  during  these 
long  summer  vacations.  If  we  had  in 
the  City  of  Salt  Lake  a  manual  training 
school,  hundreds  of  our  boys  within  a 
very  few  summers  might  learn  much 
that  goes  to  make  up  a  trade.  Looking 
to  these  particular  needs.  President 
Smith  appointed  a  committee  to  make 
investigation  and  report  to  the  Gen- 
eral Church  Board  of  Education  the 
status  of  affairs  in  this  respect,  and 
also  what,  in  the  judgment  of  the  com- 
mittee, could  be  done|  to  remedy  the 
evils  that  are  so  apparent  among  us.  A 
report  has  not  been  made,  and  there- 
fore I  cannot  give  you  the  findings  of 
that  body.  But  I  desire  to  call  your  at- 
tention to  one  item  of  their  investiga- 
tion. After  a  careful  computation  of 
the  industrial  situation  in  this  state, 
from  the  standpoint  of  the  tradesman, 
it  was  found,  reckoning  on  a  conserva- 
tive basis,  that  we  are  paying  out  every 
year  something  like  eight  millions  of 
dollars  to  tradesmen;  that  our  own  peo- 
ple are  diminishing  in  numbers  in  this 
class ;  that  many  of  the  older  <ones  are, 
so  to  speak,  out  of  date,  not  having 
kept  up  with  the  demands  of  the  times; 
that  we  are  gathering  few  from  foreign 
countries  who  learn  trades  in  their  na_ 


ELDER  JOSEPH  M.  TANNER. 


51 


tive  land,  and  that  we  are  having  few 
or  no  apprentices  among  us.  One  of  this 
committee  (several  of  which  are  at  the 
head  of  industrial  concerns  in  this  city) 
made  the  remark  that  during  the  30 
years  he  had  been  in  charge  of  a  build- 
ing firm  they  had  not  educated  one  sin- 
gle apprentice.    We  feel  the  necessity 
of  this  training.   We  feel  that  the  peo- 
ple should  give  it  their  support.     I  am 
perfectly  free  to  say  to  you  this  after- 
noon   that    many  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints    are    overly-anxious  that  their 
sons  should  become  bookkeepers.  We 
have  10  young  men  anxious  to  become 
bookkeepers  where  we  have  a  place  for 
one  of  them  when  they  are  educated. 
We  do  not  have  one 'young  man  learn- 
ing a  trade  where  there  is  and  will  be 
a  demand  for  50  of  them  within  the 
next  few  years.    So  they  are  preparing 
in  great  numbers  for  that  which  they 
are  not  likely  to  need,  and  neglecting 
that  which  they  ought  to  have  in  the 
course  of  their  education.    One  of  the 
reasons  for  this  is  the  sentiment  which 
the  parents  inculcate  in  the  hearts  of 
their  children  by  encouraging  them  to 
pursue    some    branch  of  study    that  is 
called  culture.    I  'would  like  to  relate 
an  anecdote  that  explains  much  of  our 
educational  culture  in     these  times. 
Some  few  years  ago,  when  I  was  at 
Harvard,    the    dean    of  the  scientific 
school  said  to  me  that  our  educational 
culture  was  so  empty  and  so  worthless 
that  he  never  used  the  word  "culture" 
when  he  could  possibly  avoid  it.  Then 
he  related  an  anecdote  of  two  farmers 
who     were     cultivating     their  land 
near  the  town  of  Cambridge,  where 
the  Harvard  university    is  situated. 
These  two  farmers  came  to  the  parti- 
tion fence  one  day,  and  one    of  them 
said  to  the  other,  "John,  what  is  cul- 
ture "    'Why,"  John  says,  "don't  you 
know  what  culture  is?"      "No,"  said 
he;  "I  hear  these  school  teachers  that 
come  by  here  on  to  Arlington  Heights 
in  the  summer  time,  talking  about  cul- 
ture.    They  say,  he  is  cultured,  or  she 
is  cultured,  or  they  are  cultured,  and 
'Oh,  my,  how  I  do  love  culture!'  Now, 
what  are  they  talking  about?"  "Why," 
said  John,  "you  know  what  potato  cul- 
ture is?"     "Yes,  I  know  that."  "And 
you  know  what     wheat  culture  is?" 
"Yes,  I  know  that."     "Well,  you  take 


out  the  wheat,  and  take  out  the  pota- 
toes, and  then  you  have  the  culture." 

Our  education  has  been  provided  in 
a  large  measure  by  the  state,  and  it 
has  made  its  demands  upon  us,  and  that 
education  has  been  almost  exclusively 
confined  to  books.  In  some  of  the  east- 
ern states  wealthy  men  are  contribut- 
ing their  means  for  the  establishment 
of  technical  institutions,  where  young 
men  can  learn  mechanism;  and  these 
institutions  are  most  interesting.  In 
some  of  the  states  the  government  it- 
self is  establishing  schools  of  technical 
training,  in  order  that  the  citizens  may 
be  more  useful.  1  expect  to  see  the  day 
in  Utah  when  the  men  that  are  pos- 
sessed of  means  will  contribute  likewise 
for  the  establishment  of  similar  insti- 
tutions in  the  state  and  in  the  Church, 
that  our  young  people  may  become 
more  useful  in  building  up  the  country. 
For  mechanism  has  in  it  something 
that  is  stable.  It  educates  the  judg- 
ment, and  it  gives  wisdom  to  the  men 
and  women  who  are  trained  to  use  their 
hands  along  with  their  brains.  Its 
importance  to  us  cannot  be  overesti- 
mated. 

A  few  months  ago  I  had  the  oppor- 
tunity of  traveling  through  Canada 
and  some  of  the  cities  of  the  east.  I 
found  in  many  of  those  large  cities 
schools  of  technical  training.  I  found 
they  had  a  very  beneficial  influence 
upon  the  morals  of  the  people.  For 
example,  these  schools  were  kept  up 
from  morning  until  ten  o'clock  at  night. 
During  the  middle  of  the  day  you  would 
see  the  bootblack,  after  his  work  was 
over  in  the  morning,  wend  his  way  into 
the  school;  and  the  newsboy,  after  he 
had  sold  his  morning  edition,  was  going 
into  this  technical  school,  that  he  might 
learn  him  a  trade.  I  am  told  that 
some  of  those  boys  have  already  grad- 
uated from  these  schools^  and  that  in- 
stead of  blacking  boots  or  selling  news- 
papers they  are  now  mechanics,  earn- 
ing good  wages  ,and  are  valuable  citi- 
zens in  the  communities  where  they 
live.  I  remember  very  well  when  visit- 
ing one  of  these  polytechnic  schools  in 
Brooklyn,  the  man  took  us  into  a  room 
and  said,  "These  benches  and  this 
work  are  all  ready  for  the  men  who 
come  here  at  night."  I  asked  him  who 
these  men  were.    He  replied,  "They  are 


52 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


mostly  clerks  from  the  stores  and  men 
that  are  driving  teams.  After  their 
work  is  over  at  six  o'clock  in  the  even- 
ing, they  go  home  at  once  to  supper, 
and  they  are  here  by  seven  o'clock. 
It  is  only  a  question  of  two  or  three 
years  until  their  services  are  demanded 
in  some  of  the  best  workshops  of  the 
city  ,and  some  of  them  now  are  earn- 
ing large  salaries."  Many  of  our  young 
men  find  themselves  compelled  to  take 
up  vocations  in  life  for  which  they  are 
not  suited.  They  are  clerking  in  stores 
when  they  have  that  mechanical  talent 
that  would  make  them  most  useful  in 
that  line. 

"We  are  encouraging  some  of  our 
young  men  to  go  east  and  work  up  in 
these  technical  schools.  One  or  two 
are  now  at  work,  and  it  is  hoped  that 
others  will  go  as  soon  as  they  possibly 
can,  and  fit  themselves  for  the  demands 
that  must  be  made  upon  them  in  the 
near  future.  We  not  only  desire  that 
these  schools  should  be  organized  in  the 
Church,  but  it  is  only  a  question  of 
time  when  they  will  be  organized  in 
the  state  and  our  Legislature  will  be 
as  anxious  to  appropriate  money  to 
teach  men  to  be  artisans  as  they  are 
to  teach  them  Latin  and  Greek  and 
foreign  languages  that  they  have  no 
use  for;  but  we  can  hardly  make  some 
of  our  legislators  today  realize  that 
manual  training  and  that  the  artisan 
is  as  important  to  our  state  as  the  stu- 
ient  of  Greek  and  Latin.  I  desire  to 
say  that  we  shall  respond  as  far  and 
as  rapidly  as  we  can  to  the  instructions 
which  our  President  has  given  us.  We 
realize  only  too  well  the  truth  of  his 
remarks  in  this  respect. 

One  thing  more.  We  have  organized 
in  this  state  an  agricultural  experiment 
station.  It  has  given  out  very  valuable 
information  that  will  make  our  people 
scientific  and  technical  farmers;  aye, 
and  teach  them  hew  to  cultivate  the 
soil,  how  to  raise  stock;  and  our  house- 
wives how  to  produce  in  this  state  a 
million  dollars  a  year  more  than  they 
do  from  their  poultry.  When  I  was 
in  Canada  I  was  told  of  the  great  value 
to  the  farmers  of  that  country  the  bul- 
letins issued  by  Dr.  Widtsoe,  of  the 
Agricultural  college,  had  been  to  them; 
how  many  thousands  of  dollars  those 
bulletins  had  been  in  wealth  to  the  peo- 
ple away  off  in  eastern  Canada.  I  asked 


myself  the  question,  How  much  value 
have  these  bulletins  been  to  the  people 
in  the  state  where  they  are  issued?  Dr. 
Truman  Allen,  of  the  Agricultural  sta- 
tion at  Washington,  says  of  them  that 
they  are  the  highest  authority  in  the 
world  on  the  subjects  that  they  treat 
of.  And  Dr.  Widtsoe  is  one  of  our  home 
boys,  and  is  giving  out  to  the  world  this 
information  that  is  doing  so  many  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  dollars'  good  to 
the  world,  while  many  of  us  at  home 
have  scarcely  gained  any  value  from 
them  whatever!  I  was  very  glad  when 
the  Legislature  set  apart  something 
like  $12,000  for  experimental  work  in  the 
dry  farms  of  this  state;  and  if  you  will 
watch  the  work  of*  this  eminent  scient- 
ist, if  you  will  read  something  of  his 
bulletins,  you  will  gain  great  advan- 
tage, and  you  may  become  professional 
farmers  and  stockraisers.  He  is  just 
how  finishing  a  bulletin  on  irrigation. 
I  understand  it  will  be  out  of  the  press 
soon.  I  hope  that  he  will  isue  a  popu- 
lar edition  of  it— that  is,  strip  it  of  its 
scientific  and  technical  terms;  for  I  am 
sure  that  when  we  come  to  find  out 
something  more  about  irrigation  we 
shall  discover  that  after  all  in  many 
places  it  is  not  more  water  that  we 
need,  but  a  more  scientific  and  accurate 
use  of  the  water  that  we  have  already. 
So  I  am  pleased  to  make  these  state- 
ments to  you  here,  because  I  feel  that 
by  a  little  attention  on  our  own  part, 
by  following  the  investigations  and  ex- 
periments of  eminent  men  in  our  midst, 
and  especially  by  following  the  work  of 
our  scientist,  Dr.  Widtsoe,  we  may  gain 
a  great  deal  that  is  valuable  and  that 
will  increase  the  wealth  and  prosperity 
of  the  people. 

Our  schools,  above  all  things,  aim  to 
inculcate  the  Spirit  of  God  in  our  young 
people,  and  fit  and  qualify  them  for  the 
mission  of  disseminating  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  I  need  not  say  to  you  that 
these  schools  have  accomplished  a  vast 
amount  of  good  in  this  respect,  and 
there  is  hardly  a  family  in  the  Church 
that  has  not  felt,  directly  or  indirectly, 
the  spiritual  blessings  that  have  come 
to  their  homes  from  these  institutions 
of  learning. 

God  bless  you.  God  bless  the  schools, 
and  all  the  departments  and  organiza- 
tions of  Zion,  that  there  may  be  a  har- 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


53 


monious  effort  through  all  our  labors 
for  the  accomplishment  of  a  common 
good.  God  bless  the  man  that  stands 
at  the  head  of  them  all;  for  I  want  to 
testify  to  you  today  that  I  have  great 
encouragement  in  this  work  from  the 
interest  that  is  felt  by  our  President, 
and  the  Church  Board  of  Education. 
The  students  feel  it  also,  and  his  inter- 
est in  their  lives  has  been  so  exception- 
al and  great  that  they  are  enthusiastic 
when  he  meets  them  in  their  schools 
and  takes  part  with  them  in  their  ex- 
ercises.   God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 

Importance  of  cleanliness — Effects  of  its  opposite — 
Other  and  worse  conditions — Manual  training 
— Future  material  development. 

I  am  indeed  pleased,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  the  privilege  of  addressing 
this  vast  audience  this  afternoon,  for 
a  few  moments.  It  seems  to  me  that 
the  spirit  of  this  Conference  has  been 
cne  of  teaching  the  people  concerning 
the  material  interests  of  life,  and  I 
know  of  nothing  better  to  speak  of,  as 
such  instruction  reaches  the  daily  lives 
of  all  the  people. 

There  is  a  saying  that  cleanliness  is 
next  to  Godliness;  I  hope  I  may  be  the 
means,  through  the  Spirit  of  God,  to 
bring  the  attention  of  our  people  to 
the  necessity  of  cleanliness.  If  I  had 
time,  I  would  like  to  go  into  the  sub- 
ject far  enough  to  include  cleanliness 
of  the  mind,  cleanliness  of  the  bo' 
cleanliness  of  the  surroundings,  clean- 
liness of  city  and  town.  I  hope  that  the 
Bishops,  and  presidents  of  stakes,  when 
they  go  home,  will  see  that  the  atten- 
tion of  the  people  over  whom  they  pre- 
side is  called  to  this  subject.  I  wish 
that  every  family  in  Zion  understood 
the  value  of  cleanliness  in  the  home.  I 
have  often  said  that  a  clean  home  does 
not,  of  necessity,  mean  a  mansion;  no 
matter  how  small  the  home  may  be, 
the  father  and  mother,  and  particularly 
the  mother,  should  be  interested  in 
keeping  that  home  free  from  all  filth. 
The  father  should  keep  clean  the  door- 
yard,  the  outhouses,  the  barns,  the  side- 
walks, and  all  that  pertains  to  the 
home  surroundings.  The  mother  shoul  1 
see  that  the  inside  of  the  home,  though 
it  consist  of  but  two  rooms,  is  kept 
scrupulously  clean.    I  can  not  stop  to 


tell  you  of  the  thousand  benefits  that 
■would  result  from  so  doing;  I  know  the 
people  would  be  healthier;  children 
would  love  their  homes  more,  have 
more  pride  in  them,  enjoy  more  the 
beauties  of  nature,  and  learn  more  of 
the  joys  of  life.  I  also  trust  that  we 
can  teach  all  to  be  clean  in  person, 
clean  in  their  associations,  and  pure 
in  their  thoughts. 

I  remember,  when  I  was  a  small  boy, 
President  Brigham  Young  was  making 
one  of  his  tours  and  arrived  at  a  town 
in  one  of  the  southern  counties.  He  had 
intended  to  stop  there  and  speak  to  the 
people,  but,  as  he  drove  along  the 
streets,  entering  town,  he  noticed  the 
unclean  condition  of  the  surroundings. 
He  drove  direct  to  the  Bishop's  home, 
stopped  his  team  and  said  to  the 
Bishop,  who  stood  in  front  of  his  resi 
denee  waiting  the  arrival  of  the  presi- 
dent: "Why  Bishop,  I  see  the  same 
old  rocks  upon  the  streets;  I  see  the 
same  old  dirty  surroundings;  I  see  the 
same  old  gates  off  their  hinges;  I  see 
the  same  old  broken  down  fences;  I 
see  the  same  old  puddles  of  mud  be- 
fore the  tithing  office  and  your  public 
buildings,  just  as  they  were  when  I 
was  last  here;  and,  inasmuch  as  I  called 
attention  to  these  defects  when  I  was 
here  before,  and  it  has  had  no  effect 
upon  the  people  whatever,  I  do  not 
think  it  necessary  for  me  to  stop  this 
time.  Good-bye,  Bishop.  Tell  the  peo- 
ple when  they  attend  to  these  things 
and  rectify  them,  I  will  stop  next  time." 

I  wish,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
we  all  could  realize  what  it  means  to 
us  as  a  people  to  keep  our  surroundings 
clean  and  pure.  I  assure  you  it  is 
worthy  our  consideration  and  atten- 
tion. 

I  read  a  synopsis  of  a  speech  that 
was  made  here  the  other  day,  by  a 
reverend  gentleman,  before  the  Young 
Men's  Christian  association. 

He  spoke  to  a  large  audience,  and  call- 
ed attention  to  what  he  termed  the  three 
reigning  sins  of  this  great  nation  of 
ours,  viz:  gambling,  intemperance,  and 
moral  impurity.  I  am  pleased  to  state 
that  I  can  say  amen  to  all  that  he  said 
in  regard  to  these  subjects.  But  there 
are  other  things  which  I  believe  are 
just  as  much  reigning  sins  as  the  three 
he  spoke  of.       We  know  that  these 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


three  evils  spoken  of  rob  the  home  of 
comfort.  They  rot)  the  wife  of  a  prob- 
able loving-  and  devoted  husband.  They 
rob  the  children  of  the  necessities  of 
life.  They  bring  degradation  and  mis. 
ery  into  the  home.s  of  millions  of  people. 
While  I  was  thinking  of  these  reigning 
sins,  I  thought  too  of  other  evils  which 
are  the  cause  of  many  men  gambling 
and  drinking,  and  leading  impure  lives; 
upon  one  of  these  evils  or  causes  I 
want  to  say  a  few  words  this  afternoon. 

One  of  the  greatest  evils  of  our  day 
is  that  there  are  so  many  wilfully 
motherless  wives.  Closely  connected 
with  this  is  another,  the  wilful  laziness 
of  men  who  do  not  properly  provide 
for  their  wives.  Psychologists  are 
studying  these  questions,  and  trying 
to  solve  the  problem  of  why  there  is 
so  much  sin  in  the  world  today,  so 
many  men  devoid  of  manliness,  .so 
many  vicious  scoundrels  who  have  no 
other  aim  in  life  than  to  prey  upon 
mankind.  I  have  thought  many  times 
there  certainly  is  a  reason  for  this; 
and  at  least  one  reason  is,  there  are  so 
many  children  brought  into  this  world 
by  unwilling  mothers,  the  offspring  al- 
so, in  many  cases,  of  equally  unwilling 
fathers.  Every  child  born  into  this 
world  has  a  right  to  a  tender  and  lov- 
ing welcome.  It  has  a  right,  by  laws 
of  nature,  to  claim  this  of  the  father 
and  mother;  but  in  the  world  today — 
and  I  fear  it  is  creeping-  into  our  midst 
— mothers  and  fathers  do  not  want 
many  children.  They  "do  not  want  to 
be  bothered  with  them,"  as  it  is  so  often 
said.  Coming  home  from  the  east  late- 
ly, I  was  conversing  with  a  man  on  the 
train,  and  he  remarked  to  me:  "Why, 
Mr.  Smoot,  I  have  one  child,  and  I 
would  not  take  a  million  dollars  for  it; 
but  I  'would  not  give  five  cents  for 
another."  I  want  to  tell  the  fathers 
and  mothers  of  Israel  that  the  first 
great  law  God  guve  to  mankind  is  as 
binding  today  upon  the  world  as  it 
ever  was,  I  hope  and  trust  that  the  peo- 
ple of  this  nation,  and'  of  this  Church  in 
particular,  will  live  according  to  this 
law,  and  not  violate  it  in  any  manner. 
Let  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  show 
to  the  world  that  we  love  children  more 
than  we  do  lapdogs.  Let  us  show  that 
we  love  our  offspring  more  than  any- 
thing earthly,  so  that  the  world  may 


understand  that  what  God  reveals  'we 
believe  and  practice.  I  promise  you 
that  if  we  live  to  this  law,  God  will 
provide  for  the  men  and  women  who, 
willingly  and  lovingly,  bring  children 
into  this  world  and  teach  them  His 
commandments. 

You  have,  doubtless,  noticed,  of  late, 
that' President  Roosevelt  has  called  the 
attention  of  the  world  to  the  fact  that 
"race  suicide"  is  one  of  the  great  evils 
of  the  day.  I  thank  God  that  this  na- 
tion of  ours  has  a  man  as  its  president, 
who  believes  it  the  duty  of  all  married 
people  to  become  parents.  I  also  re- 
joice that  the  wife  God  gave  him  is 
thankful  she  is  the  mother  of  a  num- 
ber of  children — not  ashamed  of  one  of 
them.  He  believes  in  rearing  children, 
and  in  making  the  home  an  altar  for 
our  religious  devotion.  He  believes  in 
bringing  children  into  the  world  by 
willing  parents,  and  making  Americans 
of  them.  I  believe  that  this  theory  is 
pleasing  in  the  sight  of  God.  So 
I  say  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  today, 
and  I  would  that  I  had  the  pow- 
er to  say  to  the  world,  Stop  "race  sui- 
cide." If  you  don't  want  a  family, 
don't  get  married.  I  hope  that  we, 
as  Latter-day  Saints,  will  learn  from 
the  experiences  of  the  world  the  evil 
effects  of  "race  suicide,"  and  not  pass 
through  the  experiences  ourselves. 

I  have  indee'd  enjoyed  the  practical 
remarks  made  at  this  Conference.  Ever 
since  I  was  twenty-two  years  of  age, 
I  have  said  on  many  occasions  that,  if 
God  blessed  me  with  sufficient  means, 
I  would  some  day  establish  a  school  of 
manual  training.  I  have  noticed  the 
lack  of  this  in  our  schools  for  many 
years.  Many,  perhaps,  have  said  that 
I  was  a  crank  on  this  subject.  But,  I 
have  been  placed  in  a  position,  at  the 
Provo  Woolen  Mills,  where  I  have  seen 
the  evils  that  exist  in  the  lack  of  manu- 
al education  for  our  children.  I  can 
go  to  Provo  today  and  put  up.  a  notice 
for  common  laboring  men  at  a  salary 
of  a  dollar  and  a  half  a  day  and  the 
next  morning,  more  than  likely,  there 
would  bs  dozens  of  applications;  but 
just  let  me  post  a  notice  that  we  want 
a  competent  finisher,  head  of  a  de- 
partment, or  a  dyer,  and  there  would 
not  be  a  person  in  all  of  the  state  of 
Utah  make  application,  that  is  quali- 


PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 


55 


lied  for  the  position.  I  desire  to  say 
to  the  people  of  Utah  that  we  are  on 
the  verge  of  an  opportunity  for  wonder- 
ful growth,  and,  while  we  may  have  re- 
verses and  hard  times  at  intervals.there 
will  be  an  impetus  come  to  this  state 
that  we  little  dream  of  at  present. 
There  will  be  great  iron  manufactories 
In  the  south,  and  many  great  smelting 
plants  in  different  parts  of  the  state. 
The  time  will  come,  and  it  is  not  far 
distant,  when  the  manufacturing  inter- 
ests of  this  state  will  be  the  greatest 
of  her  industries.  Are  we  preparing 
for  this?  I  take  it  for  granted  that 
the  smelters  we  have  today  can  get  all 
the  common  laborers  they  want  for  two 
dollars  or  two  dollars  and  fifty  cents 
per  day;  but,  if  they  require  a  man 
who  knows  the  business  thoroughly,and 
who  could  take  charge  of  it,  I  guaran- 
tee that  they  can  not  find  him  here,  but 
will  have  to  look  to  some  eastern  city 
where  people,  through  necessity,  have 
learned  that,  in  order  to  get  along  in 
this  world,  they  must    be  thoroughly 


educated  in  some  particular  line  or 
calling. 

Before  sitting  down,  I  desire  to  say 
that  I  feel  grateful  to  my  heavenly 
Father  for  His  special  blessings  to  me; 
and  I  am  also  grateful  to  the  people  of 
this  state  for  their  confidence  in  me. 
I  know  that  if  we  pray  to  God  in  ear- 
nestness He  certainly  will  sustain  us. 
The  danger  of  our  becoming  lukewarm 
is  not  from  without — the  danger  is 
ivithin.  I  hope  and  trust  that  God  will 
strengthen  us;  that  He  will  make  us 
honest,  upright  and  honorable  members 
of  His  Church;  that  we  will  never  falter 
for  a  minute,  nor  ever  have  a  doubt 
this  this  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom 
of  God.  God  bless  us  all,  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Mrs.  Lizzie  Thomas  Edward  and  the 
choir  sang  the  anthem: 

"When  Thou  Comest  to  the  Judgment." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Moroni  W.  Mer- 
rill. \ ; 


THIRD  DAY. 


Monday,  April  6,  10  a.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Hail    to    the    Prophet,    ascended  to 
heaven; 

Traitors  and  tyrants  now  fight  him 
in  vain; 

Mingling  with  Gods,  he  can  plan  for  his 
brethren; 

Death     cannot    conquer    that  hero 
again. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George 
Teasdale. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  'which  be- 
gins: 

Great  God,  attend  while  Zion  sings 
The    joy     that    from    Thy  presence 
springs; 

To  spend  one  day  with  Thee  on  earth 
Exceeds  a  thousand  days  of  mirth. 

i 

PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 

Important  recent  occurrences — Beneficent  characl  er 
oi  Temple  work— Suggestions  about  Marriage 
— Indebtedness  should  be  avoided — Work  of 
God  pressing  onwrd  to  Its  destiny, 

I  am  very  much  gratified  this  morning 
to  have  another  privilege    of  meeting 


with  you  in  conference,  and  have  been 
delighted  with  what  I  have  seen  and 
heard  during  the  last  two  days. 

I  am  reminded  this  morning  of  an  oc- 
currence that  took  place  just  ten  years 
ago — the  dedication  of  the  Salt  Lake 
Temple  by  President  Wilford  Woodruff; 
and  I  have  reflected  a  little  upon  some 
of  the  things  that  have  happened  since 
that  time.  Two  presidents  of  the 
Church — President  Woodruff  and  Presi- 
dent Snow1 — have  passed  away;  one 
First  Counselor — President  George  Q. 
Cannon;  one  President  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles — President  Franklin  D.  Rich- 
ards; and  one  Apostle.  But,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  they  have  not  lost  inter- 
est in  the  work  that  we  are  now  en- 
gaged in.  Since  the  dedication,  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Temple  there  have  been  per- 
formed in  that  house  about  eight  hun- 
dred thousand  ordinances,  or  about 
eighty  thousand  per  annum.  While  the 
world  are  ridiculing  and  scoffing  at 
what  we  are  doing  in  the  temples,  I 
wish  to  say  to  you  all,  and  you  can 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


bear  testimony  of  the  same,  that  every 
ordinance,  every  ceremony  that  is  per- 
formed therein  is  pf  a  sacred  and  holy 
character.  Every  ordinance  performed 
there  makes  better  fathers,  better 
mothers,  better  children,  better  hus- 
bands and  wives,  better  citizens  of  the 
state,  and  better  citizens 'Of  the  United 
States.  Nothing  occurs  in  that  house 
that  we  need  be  ashamed  of;  but 
everything  that  takes  place  there  is  for 
the  betterment  of  all  who  attend.  I 
presume  that  there  are  thousands  now 
listening  to  my  voice  who  could  testify 
to  the  truth  of  that  which  I  speak. 

There  is  one  thing  we  regret  some- 
times, and  that  is  with  regard  to  our 
young  people  who,  when  they  are  about 
to  enter  matrimony,  fail  to  come  to  the 
house  of  the  Lord  to  have'  the  cere- 
mony performed  there;  because  we 
know  that  if  they  are  prepared  to  enter 
that  house  they  will  receive  ordinances 
that  will  be  of  great  benefit  to  them 
while  they  live.  We  also  regret 
sometimes  to  learn  that  some 
of  our  sisters  contract  alliances  with 
those  who  are  not  of  our  faith.  It  has 
been  said  that  we  are  too  exclusive  in 
this  matter.  I  was  reading  an  article 
in  a  paper  yesterday,  and  I  took  a 
clipping  from  it  to  show  that  we  are 
not  the  only  ones  that  are  exclusive  in 
this  respect.  This  article  was  headed 
"Mixed  Marriages  Barred  in  Future," 
and  the  clippings  reads: 

"Chicago,  April  4th. 

"The  Record-Herald  New  York  cor- 
respondent says:  Owing  to  the  recep- 
tion of  orders  from  the  Propaganda  at 
Rome,  Archbishop  Farley  will  not  offici- 
ate at  the  wedding  of  Reginald  Vander- 
bilt  and  Miss  Catherine  Neilson.  Posi- 
tive instructions  have  been  received  by 
the  Roman  Catholic  hierarchy  of  the 
"United  States  forbidding  them  to  offici- 
ate at  any  more  weddings  in  which  one 
of  the  contracting  parties  is  not  a  Ro- 
man Catholic." 

So,  brethren  and  sisters,  you  see  that 
we  do  not  stand  alone  on  this  question. 
"We  know  from  past  experience  that 
where  our  sisters  have  entered  Into 
matrimonial  engagements  with  those 
not  of  our  faith  they  have,  as  a  rule, 
proved  to  be  unhappy.  Therefore,  we 
want  to  urge  upon  the  presidents  of 
stakes,  Bishops,  and  officers  every- 
where, to  use  your  influence  with  our 


young  people  in  regard  to  tnis  matter, 
to  the  end  that  they  may  so  order  their 
lives  as  to  be  prepared  to  come  to  the 
house  of  the  Lord  when  they  desire  to 
enter  the  sacred  and  holy  state  of  wed- 
lock, and  be  worthy  of  a  recommenda- 
tion from  their  Bishop,  signed  by  the 
president  of  the  stake. 

I  want  to  sustain  the  remarks  made 
by  our  president  in  the  opening  of  this 
conference,  with  reference  to  going  into 
debt.  It  is  a  matter  of  regret,  but  I 
am  cognizant  of  the  fact  that  many  of 
our  people  even  now  are  mortgaging 
their  homes  and  farms  to  obtain  money 
for  the  purpose  of  going  into  some 
speculation.  It  is  all  very  well  for  us, 
if  we  have  a  little  means  aside  from'  our 
homes  and  farms,  to  go  into  some  en- 
terprise wherein  we  think  we  can  make 
something  for  ourselves,  if  we  wish  to 
do  so;  but  when  it  comes  to  borrowing 
money  and  mortgaging  our  homes,  it  ia 
liable  to  prove  very  disastrous.  I  could 
mention  a  number  of  our  brethren  who 
in  the  "boom"  mortgaged  their  homes 
and  entered  into  speculation  and  enter- 
prises which  proved  disastrous  failures, 
and  today  they  are  without  homes  to 
cover  the  heads  of  their  wives  and  chil- 
dren. Let  us  take  warning  from  this, 
my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  know  that 
what  President  Smith  said  yesterday  ia 
timely  and  appropriate.  It  is  said  by 
some  that  we  are  going  to  have  an  era 
of  prosperity.  All  right;  let  prosperity 
come,  and  if  during  that  time  we  can 
get  out  of  debt,  we  will  rejoice  that  we 
are  out  of  debt.  But  if,  on  the  other 
hand,  a  time'  of  adversity  should  come, 
and  we  are  in  the  bondage  of  debt, 
what  will  be  the  result?  We  will  likely 
lose  our  homes  and  our  farms.  I  hope, 
therefore,  that  we  will  take  to  heart 
what  was  said  in  relation  to  this  mat- 
ter. It  is  important  that  we  should. 

I  do  not  know  how  many  more  con- 
ferences the  Lord  will  permit  me  to  en- 
joy with  you;  but  I  know  He  has  been 
very  merciful  to  me,  and  has  extended 
my  days  beyond  what  I  could  expect.  I 
will  soon  be  82  years  of  age,  and  I  re- 
joice to  think  that  the  Lord  has  so  pre- 
served me  that  I  have  this  one  more 
privilege  of  standing  before  you. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  when  we 
go  from  this  conference  let  us  go  with 
a  determination,  each  one  of  us,  that 


ELDER  WM|  A.  HYDE. 


57 


"as  for  me  and  my  house,  we  will  serve 
the  Lord."  I  have  a  very  strong-  impres- 
sion that  missionaries  will  not  be  with- 
drawn from  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
and  that  the  temples  will  not  be  closed, 
but  that  the  work  will  progress  and  go 
on  from  this  time  henceforth  with 
greater  force  and  strength  than  it  ever 
has  done  before.  My  the  Lord  help  us 
all  to  be  faithful  and  true,  even  to  the 
end,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  A.  HYDE, 
(President  of  Pocatello  Stake.) 
My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am 
deeply  sensible  of  the  honor  that  is 
conferred  upon  me  and  the  considera- 
tion that  is  shown  our  stake  by  this 
privilege  of  standing  before  you  to  re- 
port. I  have  been  greatly  interested  in 
the  remarks  that  have  fallen  from  the 
lips  of  other  presidents  of  stakes  who 
have  had  a  like  privilege.  In  a  certain 
sense,  -it  has  been  to  me  a  convention 
of  brethren  holding  like  responsibilities 
to  myself,  and  for  that  reason  I  have 
listened  wtih  a  great  deal  of  interest. 
I  have  learned  much  from  the  older 
brethren  who  have  occupied  positions  of 
responsibility  for  years,  and  who  have 
had  many  experiences,  some  of  them 
we  are  undergoing  at  present.  Especial- 
ly was  I  impressed  with  the  patriotism 
of  the  remark  uttered  yesterday  by  one 
of  the  brethren,  who  said  it  did  not 
matter  to  him  'where  he  lived,  so  long  as 
he  was  doing  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
That  has  been  my  feeling  since  my  in- 
cumbency in  this  position. 

Our  stake  might  be  termed  almost  a 
composite  of  the  other  stakes  of  Zion; 
for  we  have  within  it  many  of  the  prob- 
lems that  confront  them  all.  "We  have 
our  large  areas  of  uncultivated  and 
arid  land;  we  have  little  communities 
that  are  flourishing,  but  have  not  the 
advantage  of  close  proximity  to  the 
head  of  the  Church;  we  have  a  large 
railroad  town,  in  which  problems  of  la- 
bor and  the  employment  of  our  breth- 
ren are  to  be  considered;  we  have  the 
disadvantages  that  arise  from  living  in 
cities  of  this  character,  and  the  other 
ills  and  evils  that  have  been  mentioned. 
But  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  we  have 


a  people  whose  desire  is  to  do  the  will  of 
the  Lord.  Our  stake  has  been  organized 
about  five  years,  of  which  time  I  have 
been  at  the  head  only  two  years.  Since 
the  stake  was  organized  our  tithing  has 
increased  60  per  cent;  and  taking  into 
consideration  the  fact  that  our  numbers 
have  not  been  largely  augmented,  I 
take  it  is  an  evidence  of  the  spiritual 
growth  of  our  people.  I  believe  their  de- 
sire still  is  to  serve  the  Lord  and  to 
increase  in  this  particular  requirement. 
The  brethren  are  united  in  their  work. 
We  feel  that  we  cannot  do  too  much  for 
the    kingdom    of    God;  and  although 
there  are  many   obstacles,   which  at 
times    have    seemed  insurmountable, 
every    temporary    embarrassment  and 
apparent  defeat  we  have  only  consider- 
ed as  a  stepping  stone  to  our  ultimate 
success.  We  believe  that  the  time  will 
come  when  we  shall  not  be  considered 
one  of  the  smallest  or  least  efficient 
of  the  stakes,  but  that  in  due  time  we 
shall  do  our  part  toward  the  glory  of 
God.  My  faith  is  strong  in  the  promises 
which  have  been  made  to  the  people 
of  God.   I  believe  in  their  ultimate  suc- 
cess.   All  my  life  I  have  looked  for- 
ward to  the  time  when  our  people  shall 
be  vindicated,  when  the  nations  of  the 
•world  shall  look  upon  us  as  we  really 
are,  when  our  virtues  shall  be  known, 
and  we  shall  be  indeed  a  light  set  upon 
a  hill,  by  which  they  may  get  ideas  of 
advancement.  I  have  been  galled  all  my 
life  under  the  criticisms  that  have  been 
uttered  against  those    brethren  that 
have  stood  at  our  head,  whom  we  have 
known  to  be  men  of  honor,  honesty  of 
purpose,  and  of  integrity.   I  confidently 
expect  to  see  the  time  come  when  they 
shall  be  vindicated  in  the  eyes  of  the 
world. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  bear  my  testi- 
mony to  the  truth  of  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  I  know  it  is  of  God.  I  feel  in  my 
heart  that  the  day  of  our  triumph  is  not 
far  distant,  that  there  is  an  undercur- 
rent of  success  and  of  spiritual  progress 
permeating  the  entire  body  of  the 
Church,  and,  that  the  only  result  that 
can  ensue  from  this  will  be  our  in- 
crease in  things  spiritual  and  things 
temporal,  and  the  increase  of  the  glory 
of  God  upon  the  earth;  which  I  pray 
for  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


58 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  DAVID  CAMERON, 
(President  of  Panguitch  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  high- 
ly honored  in  having  this  privilege, 
although  very  weak.  I  desire  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  with  me  in 
the  few  remarks  I  may  make,  that  I 
may  speak  those  things  that  will  be 
for  our  mutual  good. 

The  Panguitch  Stake  of  Zion  is  locat- 
ed in  the  southern  part  of  this  state. 
We  are  in  a  high  altitude,  ranging  from 
5,000  feet  to  8,000  feet  above  sea  level; 
consequently  we  have  all  kinds  of  cli- 
mate. For  the  last  four  months  the 
valley  in  which  the  town  of  Panguitch 
is  situated  has  been  covered  with  snow, 
and  the  only  bare  ground  to  be  seen 
was  where  the  streets  had  been  worr 
by  travel.  Such  a  condition  has  not 
been  known  there  before.  Consequently 
we  feel  that  we  will  be  blessed  of  the 
Lord  in  the  supply  of  water  for  the 
coming  year.  Some  wards  in  our  Stake 
have  neglected  putting  in  grain  during 
the  last  year,  on  account  of  the  scarc- 
ity of  water,  realizing  that  if  they  put 
it  in  it  would  perish  for  want  of  mois- 
ture. There  are  ten  wards  in  our  Stake, 
and  upwards  of  3,600  inhabitants.  We 
have  a  good  people  in  that  Stake,  who 
are  trying  to  serve  the  Lord  and  keep 
His  commandments,  although  we  have 
those  that  do  not  take  much  interest 
in  the  work.  The  presidency  of  the 
Stake  are  in  harmony;  also  the  High 
Council  of  the  Stake.  The  presidency 
meet  together  once  a  week,  except  on 
rare  occasions  when  they  are  not  at 
home,  to  talk  over  matters  pertaining 
to  the  Stake;  and  they  meet  once  a 
month  with  the  High  Council.  The 
High  Council  are  given  to  understand 
that  the  presidency  of  the  Stake  do 
not  expect  to  carry  the  responsibilities 
of  the  Stake  alone,  but  that  they  expect 
the  High  Council  to  help  them.  We 
have  many  children  in  our  Stake.  Last 
Fourth  of  July  was  celebrated  in  Pan- 
guitch, and  there  was  a  Washington 
official  present.  After  it  Was  over,  he 
asked  me  about  the  population  of  Pan- 
guitch. I  told  him  it  was  somewhere 
between  800  and  1,000.  Well,  said  he, 
about  three-fourths  of  them  I  suppose 
are  children,  there  was  such  a  turnout 
of  them.    We  have  about  1,400  children 


of  school  age  in  the  Stake.  We  have 
1,100  in  Garfield  county.  The  Stake 
takes  in  Garfield  county  and  a  part  of 
Piute  county.  Last  year  we  had  in  the 
neighborhood  of  seventy  going  to  the 
Beaver  Branch  of  the  Brigham  Young 
Academy.  Our  organizations  are  in 
tolerably  good  condition.  The  religion 
class,  however,  is  not  worked  up  very 
well.  It  is  running  in  some  of  our 
wards.  We  hops  it  will  be  better  in 
the  future. 

I  know  the  Gospel  is  true.  I  know 
this  is  the  Church  of  God;  and  inas- 
much as  we  will  observe  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  we  will  be  blessed, 
and  His  Spirit  will  be  with  us  to  help 
ut  in  all  our  endeavors  to  do  right.  We 
have  before  us  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  The  Lord  has  said  that  He  re- 
veals His  mind  and  will,  for  the  people, 
to  none  save  His  servants  the  Prophets. 
This  is  one  thing  we  should  look  to, 
that  we  should  give  heed  to  the  coun- 
sels of  the  Prophets  of  the  Lord,  and  to 
the  things  that  President  Smith  has 
stated  during  this  Conference.  While 
he  was  speaking  in  regard  to  the  law 
of  Tithing  and  the  obligations  of  debt, 
I  thought  that  many  of  the  brethren 
are  not  as  careful  in  paying  their  tithing 
as  they  are  in  meeting  their  obligations 
to  individuals.  Many  do  not  come  to 
settle  their  tithing  with  the  Bishop. 
They  pay  what  they  choose  as  tithing 
and  they  never  go  to  the  Bishop  to  find 
•out  whether  they  have  paid  their  tith- 
ing or  not.  They  do  not  know 
whether  the  Bishop  has  sent  dn 
their  names  as  full  tithepayers  or  part 
tithepayers.  Every  individual  should 
be  as  careful  in  settling  his  account 
with  the  Lord  as  he  is  with  his 
brothers  and  sisters. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  bless  us, 
and  let  His  Spirit  be  with  us  today  as 
it  has  been  in  the  past,  that  we  may  be 
instructed  and  built  up  in  our  faith,  and 
be  encouraged  to  go  from  this  Confer- 
ence to  do  better  in  the  future  than  we 
have  in  the  past.  May  the  Lord  bless 
us  to  this  end,  is  my  prayer.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANGUS  M.  CANNON 
(President  of  Salt  Lake  Stake). 

It  is  twenty-seven  years  today  since 
your  humble  servant  was  permitted  by 


ELDER  ANGUS  M.  CANNON. 


59 


the  grace  of  God  to  preside  over  the 
Salt  Lake  Stake  of  Zion,  and  I  believe 
I  am  as  nervous  today  as  I  was  at  that 
time,  when  my  name  was  called.  The 
fact  is,  I  am  familiar  with  something 
of  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  a 
man  in  this  position.  There  have  been 
four  temples  dedicated  to  the  Lord  in 
that  time.  There  have  been  five  dif- 
ferent men  presiding  as  the  mouthpiece 
of  God  to  this  people  in  that  time.  In 
sitting  here  and  contemplating  the  re- 
marks which  were  made  by  brethren  of 
the  Twelve  in  Winter  Quarters,  before 
they  started  for  this  valley,  I  have 
been  led  to  ask  myself,  Is  it  possible 
that  the  brethren  comprehended  this 
scene  in  the  time  that  has  elapsed  since 
that  day  until  now?  How  many  of  us 
are  there  that  have  kept  our  estate, 
maintained  and  preserved  our  inherit- 
ances, and  given  evidences  in  our  con- 
duct that  we  are  here  simply  to  possess 
the  Priesthood  of  the  Lord,  to  minister 
in  His  name,  to  His  honor  and  glory, 
and  to  our  own  salvation? 

Twenty-seven  years  ago  this  stake 
consisted  of  the  counties  of  Tooele,  Da- 
vis, Morgan,  Summit,  Wasatch,  and 
Salt  Lake.  Five  stakes  have  been 
organized  in  these  five  adjoining  coun- 
ties, and  since  that  time  two  other 
stakes — Jordan  and  Granite  Stakes, 
within  this  county— have  been  organ- 
ized out  of  this  stake.  Today  this  stake 
numbers  upwards  of  twenty  thousand 
members  of  the  Church  and  between 
five  and  six  thousand  children  under 
eight  years  of  age.  In  the  organization 
of  the  stake  twenty- seven  years  ago, 
the  late  David  O.  Calder  was  the  first 
counselor  and  Joseph  E.  Taylor  the  sec- 
ond counselor.  Today  Joseph  E.  Taylor 
and  C.  W.  Penrose  are  the  counselors 
to  the  president  of  the  stake.  In  the 
twenty-seven  years  there  has  never 
been  a  disagreement  between  the  presi- 
dncy  of  the  stake,  nor  yet  between  the 
presidency  of  the  stake  and  the  High 
Council.  The  presidency  of  the  stake 
and  High  Council,  with  the  presidency 
of  the  High  Priests'  quorum,  meet  in 
the  Temple  once  a  week,  and  we  also 
meet  as  occasion  requires,  for  the 
transaction  of  business  pertaining  to 
the  stake.  The  High  Council  take  part 
in  deliberating  upon  any  changes  that 
are  effected.     I  am  pleased  to  report 


that  the  High  Council  are  efficient, 
united,  and  prompt  in  their  attendance 
at  meetings.  We  do  not  wait  one 
minute  to  organize  our  councils.  They 
are  instructed  that  if  there  is  no  busi- 
ness they  shall  adjourn,  if  the  presiden- 
cy are  not  prompt  to  the  minute.  Today 
there  are  thirty-seven  wards  in  the 
stake,  all  in  a  prosperous  and  united 
condition,  excepting  one,  where  we  feel 
it  will  be  necessary  to  effect  a  change 
in  some  form,  to  bring  about  greater 
union  and  more  of  the  fellowship  of  the 
Lord  Jesus.  We  have  all  the  organi- 
zations of  the  Church  and  the  Priest- 
hood. We  have  sixteen  quorums  of 
Elders.  We  have  a  good  attendance 
at  our  High  Priests'  meeting.  Presi- 
dent McKenzie,  of  the  High  Priests' 
quorum,  has  adopted  the  rule  of  call- 
ing a  roll,  which  has  proved  to  be  of 
great  good.  It  prompts  men  to  be  pres- 
ent, to  respond  to  their  names,  and  to 
show  that  they  are  worthy  of  that 
Priesthood.  The  Elders'  quorums  are 
improving  in  their  condition.  We  find 
some  few  that  neglect  their  duties,  and 
have  effected  changes  in  the  organiza- 
tion? that  have  been  of  great  good  to 
the  quorums.  We  find  the  instructions 
that  are  imparted  to  the  quorums 
through  the  rules  that  have  been  en- 
acted for  their  government,  tend  to 
benefit  the  Elders  of  this  stake.  A  great 
many  have  been  called  to  take  missions 
of  late.  It  has  not  been  deemed  neces- 
sary to  ordain  all  who  go  on  missions 
to  the  office  of  Seventy,  but  many  have 
gone  clothed  upon  with  the  Melchisedek 
Priesthood,  as  helps  unto  the  Seventies 
and  to  the  Twelve.  It  is  gratifying  to 
witness  the  response  that  is  made  by 
the  young  men  when  they  are  called  to 
engage  in  missionary  work.  The  man- 
ner in  which  they  lay  aside  their  own 
personal  matters  and  take  the  harness 
upon  them  is  very  encouraging.  We 
have  the  Relief  society,  the  Mutual  Im- 
provement associations,  the  Primary 
associations,  the  Sabbath  schools,  all 
in  successful  operation,  efficient  as 
helps  in  the  government  of  the  Church. 

We  feel  that  a  serious  evil  arises  from 
multitudes  coming  to  this  city  to  reside 
and  depending  upon  the  offerings  of  the 
people  and  the  funds  of  the  Church  for 
their  maintenance. 

Over  a  year  ago  I  was  amused  in  re- 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ceiving  a  letter  from  a  president  of  a 
stake,  in  which  he  called  upon  me  to 
forbear  sending  people  into  that  stake 
who  were  poor.  I  smiled  at  the  idea, 
because  I  never  had  been  known  to  send 
a  person  to  any  other  stake  from  this. 
On  the  other  hand,  they  would  come 
here  in  great  numbers;  and  not  con- 
tent with  coming  themselves,  many  that 
are  supported  by  the  Church  funds  and 
the  offerings  of  the  people  have  their 
young  relatives  come  and  eat  of  their 
substance  and  live  off  them,  because 
here  they  can  find  amusements  and  the 
like.  They  do  not  realize  the  cost  it 
is  in  the  aggregate. 

The  people,  as  a  rule,  are  prosperous. 
I  believe,  as  President  Smith  has  ex- 
pressed himself,  that  today  is  one  of 
the  most  prosperous  times  that  is  likely 
to  dawn  upon  this  people  and  this  na- 
tion. I  heartily  endorse  the  remark 
that  it  is  wise  for  us  to  refrain  from 
contracting  further  debt,  and  use  all  our 
powers,  by  the  help  of  God,  to  free 
ourselves  from  our  present  indebted- 
ness. Many  have  been  compelled  to 
forfeit  their  homes,  which  have  gone 
into  the  hands  of  outsiders,  and  the 
latter  in  turn  have  established  saloons 
and  disreputable  places  right  in  the 
neighborhood  where  the  most  faithful 
live.  There  is  no  way  to  counteract 
this  evil  when  people  will  voluntarily 
dispose  of  their  homes,  and  then  excuse 
themselves  by  saying  that  they  had  to 
sell  out  because  they  could  not  re- 
deem them,  from  mortgage.  A  fearful 
responsibility  is  sure  to  result  to  us  is 
in  these  particulars.  I  think  we  will  be 
held  accountable  for  the  society  we  in- 
troduce into  the  neighborhood  to  which 
people  have  honestly  gathered  from  the 
nations,  to  be  separate  from  the  world 
and  to  partake  not  of  their  sins  and 
their  calamities.  I  believe  the  people 
of  Salt  Lake  Stake  are  more  zealous 
and  more  faithful  than  they  have  ever 
been.  There  are  exceptions,  of  course. 
There  are  those  that  are  falling  away. 
It  is  as  the  Lord  said  it  would  be. 

God  give  us  grace  and  strength,  that 
we  may  be  worthy  to  occupy  the  sta- 
tions He  has  permitted  us  to  fill.wheth- 
er  presiding  in  stakes,  in  wards,  in 
quorums,  in  associations,  or  in  our 
families;  that  when  the  day  of  account 
shall  come,  we  may  be  able  to  render 


a  faithful  account  of  our  stewardship 
and  find  justification  at  the  hands  of 
Jesus  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEWIS  ANDERSON, 
(President  of  South  Sanpete  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  can  say 
1hat  I  truly  rejoice  in  having  an  oppor- 
tunity of  meeting  with  ,  you  again  in 
conference.  It  is  like  unto  a  fountain 
of  living  water,  which  the  Saints  come 
and  partake  of  freely  twice  a  year,  and 
I  believe  we  will  go  to  our  homes  great- 
ly strengthened  and  blessed,  and  with 
a  renewed  determination  to  press  on  in 
the  work  of  Gcd.  I  have  been  greatly 
instructed  and  built  up  in  what  has 
been  said  by  the  servants  of  God  during 
the  conference,  and  in  standing  before 
you  for  a  few  moments  I  trust  that  I 
may  be  actuated  by  the  same  spirit  that 
they  have  been  in  possession  of,  and 
that  I  may  report  the  condition  of  the 
South  Sanpete  Stake  of  Zion  in  truth- 
fulness. 

It  is  only  a  few  months  since  I  was 
appointed  president  of  the  stake,  suc- 
ceeding our  beloved  president,  the  late 
lamented  Canute  Peterson,  who  had  for 
so  many  years  ably  presided  in  the 
midist  of  the  people  of  Sanpete  county, 
now  North  and  South  Sanpete  stakes. 
May  his  memory  be  green  in  the  hearts 
of  the  people,  and  I  am  sure  it  will  be, 
for  the  great  good  he  has  done;  and  his 
name  will  live  in  the  hearts  of  the  peo- 
ple among  whom  he  so  diligently  la- 
bored day  and  night.  Also  his  counsel- 
ors, President  Beal  and  President  Mai- 
ben,  who  have  stood  with  him  shoulder 
to  shoulder  in  the  great  work  that  was 
given  unto  him.  We  shall  remember 
them  with  gratitude  unto  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

South  Sanpete  stake  is  located  nearly 
due  south  from  this  city,  about  120  miles 
to  its  northern  boundary.  It  has  nine 
wards,  and  a  population  of  upwards  of 
6,000.  The  quorums  of  the  Priesthood 
are  all  properly  organized,  the  auxil- 
iary associations  are  in  good  running 
order,  and  a  great  work  has  been  done 
by  them  the  past  season,  for  which  I 
ern  very  thankful.  The  presidency  of 
the  stake  are  united  in  their  labor.  That 
love  which  characterizes  the  most  of 
such  quorums  exists  with  us.  The  same 


ELDER  THOMAS  A.  WADDOUPS. 


61 


may  be  said  of  the  High  Council.  The 
presidency  of  the  stake  meet  once  a 
week,  the  High  Council  once  a  month, 
and  all  matters  that  are  for  the  work 
of  the  ministry  in  that  stake  of  Zion 
are  thoroughly  canvassed  a.nd  passed 
upon  by  them  before  any  action  is  tak- 
en.   We  are  erecting  in  South  Sanpete 
stake,  together  with  the  North  Sanpete 
stake,  a  stake  academy,  upon  which 
$20,000  has  already  been  expended.  The 
walls  are  up,  and  ready  for  the  roof. 
It  will  be  a  magnificent  building.  The 
Saints  of  the  two  stakes  are  doing  all 
the}'  can  in  contributing  towards  its 
erection.    Our  stake  the  past  year  has 
paid  $20,000  in  tithing.   This  is  not  quite 
so  large  a  tithing  as  has  been  paid  in 
previous  years;  but  it  is  a  good  one  in 
view  of  our  circumstances.  For  the  last 
three  years  we  have  suffered  consid- 
erably from  drouth  and  grasshoppers, 
notwithstanding  which  the  tithing  has 
fallen  off  but  little;  in  fact,    I  believe 
there  has  been  a  proportionate  increase. 
We  have  a  splendid  prospect  for  an 
abundant  harvest  the    present  season 
The  mountains  are  filled  with  snow; 
God  has  sent  moisture  upon  the  parched 
ground,  and  I  believe,  if  the  Saints  will 
do  their  duty  and  heed  the  counsels  of 
the  servants  of  the  Lord,  they  will  be 
greatly  blessed  in  their  basket  and  in 
their  store,  according  to  the  promises 
that  God  has  given.    Thousands  of  dol- 
lare  have  been  expended  the  past  two 
years  in  fighting  the  grasshopper  pest. 
There  has  been  a  united  effort  on  the 
part  of  the  people  to  exterminate  it. 
The  civil  authorities  have  lent  their  aid. 
and  I  believe  that    good  results  will 
come  from  the  labor  performed  in  this 
direction.  We  have  a  good  people  resid- 
ing in  that  stake  of  Zion,  and  I  am  as- 
sured that  they  are  desirous  of  serving 
the  Lord  and  keeping    his  command- 
ments. 

The  keynote  given  us  by  President 
Smith  at  the  opening  of  the  conference, 
I  feel  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  unto  this 
people;  for  I  cannot  conceive  of  any- 
thing  so  harmful  and  damaging  to  th» 
Latter-day  Saints  as  debt.  I  have  no- 
ticed that  it  not  only  brings  trouble 
and  affliction  upon  those  who  practise 
this,  but  upon  others  as  well.  It  is 
written  that  the  little  foxes  spoil  the 
vine.    Some  of  our  people  having  gone 


into  debt,  and  not  having  been  strictly 
honest  with  their  neighbor,  have 
caused  hard  feelings,  and  some  have 
become  weak  in  the  faith  by  reason  of 
their  brother  not  paying  his  just  dues 
to  them  according  to  promise.  I  be- 
lieve that  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  will 
listen  to  this  counsel  they  will  be  hap- 
pier in  their  lives.  They  will  be  freed 
from  slavery,  which  debt  brings  upon 
every  man.  They  wil  enjoy  a  greater 
degree  of  the  Spirit  of  God  when  they 
are  free.  A  number  of  eastern  gentle- 
men once  made  a  statement  in  my  hear- 
ing that  the  "Mormons"  were  practi- 
cally free  from  debt;  that  they  were  an 
honest  people,  and  they  paid  their 
debts.  I  hope  this  is  true;  it  ought  to 
be.  I  remember  well  a  conversation  I 
had  with  some  gentlemen  in  the  city  of 
Boston  during  our  trying  times  of  a  few 
years  ago.  They  were  talking  about  the 
conditions  that  existed  in  "Mormon- 
dom,"  and  they  said  that  the  "Mor- 
mon" people  were  the  most  independent 
of  any  that  lived  In  the  United  States. 
Because  they  had  hearkened  to  the 
counsel  of  their  leader,  President  Brig- 
ham  Young,  in  early  days,  they  had 
their  own  farms,  and  they  placed  no 
mortgage  upon  them.  Of  course,  statis- 
tics show  that  there  is  only  a  small  pro- 
portion of  the  homes  of  the  Saints  mort- 
gaged; but  there  are  too  many.  It 
would  bring  greater  happiness  if  there 
were  none. 

I  pray  that  God  will  bless  us  in  our 
coming  together,  that  we  may  hearken 
unto  the  counsels  we  have  heard,  and 
put  them  into  practise,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  A.  WADDOUPS. 
(President  of  the    Iosepa  Hawaiian 
Colony.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  reporting 
the  condition  of  the  Hawaiian  colony 
at  Iosepa,  I  will  first  tell  you  where  it 
is  located.  It  is  in  Tooele  county,  in 
what  is  known  as  Skull  valley,  about 
70  miles  from  this  city.  We  have  or- 
ganized there  a  Sunday  school,  Mutual 
Improvement  Association  and  Relief 
Society,  all  presided  over  by  brethren 
and  sisters  belonging  to  the  Hawaiian 
colony.  These  organizations  are  in  good 
r  unning  order,  and  the  people  generally 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


feel  like  pressing  on  in  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  The  Hawaiians  there  are  a  God- 
fearing people,  and  are  faithful.  If  I 
were  sick,  I  would  not  go  by  them  for 
anyone  to  administer  to  me,  because 
I  think  they  can  get  as  near  to  our 
Heavenly  Father  by  their  childlike 
faith  as  can  any  of  the  white  people. 
The  temporal  and  spiritual  interests  of 
the  Hawaiian  colony  are  very  closely 
connected.  The  people  are  hired  to 
work  on  the  place,  and  are  paid  wages 
for  the  same.  We  are  getting  along 
all  right,  and  have  nothing  to  complain 
of.  By  the  help  of  the  Lord  we  intend 
to  do  our  duty.  I  pray  God  to  bless  us 
all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 

Comparative  freedom  from  saloons— People  known 
by  their  fruits— Progress  of  the  Church  means 
^nod  to  all — Many  leaders  among  the  Saints — 
Fulfillment  of  Prophecy. 

I  confess,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  have  had  a  little  feeling  of  un- 
easiness in  all  of  the  meetings  of  this 
conference,  that  feeling  having  been 
produced  by  the  announcement  made  in 
the  opening  remarks  of  President  Jo- 
seph P.  Smith,  that  among  others  who 
would  probably  Be  called  upon  to  ad- 
dress the  people  at  this  conference 
would  be  the  members  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  Nevertheless,  I 
have  enjoyed  the  conference,  and  have 
been  deeply  impressed  with  the  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne  by  the 
various  brethren  who  have  occupied 
this  position. 

I  feel  that,  some  remarkable  things 
have  been  brought  to  the  attention  of 
the  people  who  have  been  gathered  to- 
gether in  the  reports  which  have  been 
given  by  the  various  presidents  of  the 
stakes  of  Zion.  I  believe  one  of  the 
brethren  reported  that  in  the  com- 
munity over  which  he  presided,  in  Ari- 
zona, there  was  not  a  saloon  to  be 
found  in  any  of  the  settlements  of  the 
Saints  within  the  borders  of  that  stake. 
That  was  followed  by  the  report  of  an- 
other president  of  stake  from  the  south- 
ern part  of  this  state,  in  which  the 
same  declaration  was  made,  that  there 
were  no  saloons  in  his  stake,  though 
one  man  had  gone  over  the  line  into 
Arizona  and  there  pitched  a  tent,  where 
he  dispensed  intoxicating  liquors.  An- 


other stake  president  reported  that  in 
a  very  populous  stake  in  this  county 
there  were  but  three  wards  in  which 
there  were  saloons;  and  I  believe  he 
could  have  reported  that  one  of  those 
wards  was  organized  in  a  mining  camp, 
and  that  another  ward  was  organized  in 
a  town  where  there  ail  smelters;  Still 
another  stake  president  reported  that 
in  one  of  the  Cache  Valley  stakes, 
where  there  was  a  population  of  7,500 
people,  and  where  there  were  ten  towns, 
there  were  but  two  saloons. 

I  regard  these  as  remarkable  state- 
ments. I  do  not  know  whether  this  can 
be  duplicated  in  any  part  of  the  world 
or  not  ;but  so  far  as  my  own  experi- 
ences go  in  traveling  quite  extensively 
among  the  peoples  of  the  old  world,  I 
feel  perfectly  safe  in  saying  that  such 
a  condition  could  not  be  found  in  any 
community  of  the  old  world.  With  the 
communities  of  the  world  the  saloon 
seems  to  be  almost  as  necessary,  gen- 
erally speaking,  as  do  churches  or  busi- 
ness houses.  I  believe  the  conditions 
mentioned  in  the  reports  to  which  I 
have  alluded  are  peculiar  to  this  peo- 
ple, and  cannot  be  found  in  any  other 
communities. 

While  listening  to  these  reports  there 
kept  ringing  in  my  ears  the  saying  of 
the  Savior:  "Ye  shall  know  them  by 
their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes  of 
thorns,  or  figs  of  thistles?  Even  so 
every  good  tree  bringeth  good  fruit; 
but  a  corrupt  tree  bringeth  forth  evil 
fruit.  *  *  *  Wherefore  by  their  fruits 
ye  shall  know  them."  And  these  are 
some  of  the  fruits  that  have  been  pro- 
duced by  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  by  the 
gathering  together  of  the  people  of  the 
earth  whose  ears  have  been  saluted 
with  the  glad  message  of  the  Gospel. 
They  have  been  gathered  according  to 
the  promises  of  the  prophets  of  old, 
from  the  east  and  from  the  west,  from 
the  north  and  from  the  south,  and  have 
come  to  these  mountain  valleys,  where 
they  have  been  given  pastors  after  God's 
own  heart,  who  have  fed  them  with 
knowledge  and  with  understanding. 
There  need  not  be  any  concewi  in  the 
minds  of  men  concerning  the  growth  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  sometimes  discover 
that  men  in  high  places  become  fearful 


ELDER  JOS.  W.  M'MUEEIN. 


63 


because  of  the  development  of  the  work 
of  the  Lord  and  because  of  the  fact  that 
"Utah  is  becoming  too  small  for  the  peo- 
ple of  the  Lord,  and  they  have  broken 
over  the  boundaries  of  our  state  and 
spread  out  on  the  north  and  on  the 
south,  on  the  east  and  on  the  west,  and 
they  are  building  towns  and  cities  in 
many  of  the  states  of  this  American 
nation.  I  wonder  what  harm  would 
come  to  the  people  of  the  United 
States;  what  harm  would  come  to 
people  In  other  lands,  if  there 
were  populous  communities  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  there,  and  if  the 
chief  men  among  them  could 
stand  up  and  say  that  in  towns  where 
hundreds  and  thousands  of  people  re- 
side such  a  thing  as  a  saloon,  or  a 
house  of  ill  fame,  was  unknown.  What 
injury  would  come  to  the  peoples  of  the 
earth  by  the  introduction  of  the  Gospel, 
and  if  by  paying  attention  to  the  coun- 
sels that  have  been  given  by  the  chief 
men  of  Israel  a  condition  of  this  char- 
acter could  be  produced  in  all  the 
states  of  the  United  States  and  in  all 
the  cities  and  towns  that  have  been 
built  by  the  children  of  men  upon  the 
face  of  the  whole  earth-?  And  this 
would  be  the  condition  if  the  people 
were  converted  to  the  principles  of  the 
everlasting  Gospel  as  they  have  been 
revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith;  for  sobriety  is  one  of  the  foun- 
dation principles  of  the  Gospel  as 
taught  by  the  modern  prophet.  We  do 
not  require  temperance  societies;  we 
do  not  require  extraordinary  pledges,  to 
cause  us  to  be  temperate.  If  we  have 
been  converted  to  the  Gospel  of  the  Son 
of  God,  that  makes  us  temperate.  There 
is  more  power  and  force  in  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel,  there  is  a  greater  influ- 
ence to  persuade  men  to  do  right  and 
to  refrain  from  doing  evil  than  can  be 
found  in  any  organization  that  has  ever 
been  effected  in  the  midst  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  The  power  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord,  the  power  that  comes 
through  obedience  to  the  things  of  God, 
and  that  enables  men  to  plant  their 
feet  in  the  right  path  to  such  an  extent 
that  they  cannot  be  turned  either  to 
the  right  or  to  the  left,  is  superior  to  all 
other  forces  or  agencies. 

I  rejoiced  in  listening  to  another  tes- 
timony that    was  borne — that  twenty 


years  ago  a  few  people  went  up  into 
the  state  of  Idaho  and  pitched  their 
tents  on  a  great  sagebrush  flat,  and  that 
now  there  are  twenty  thousand  .people 
there  who  have  good  comfortable 
homes,  who  have  conquered  the  desert, 
and  who  have  made  it  to  bud  and  bloom 
as  the  rose,  according  to  the  predictions 
of  the  prophets.  This  president,  in  re- 
porting his  stake,  made  the  statement 
that  there  are  homes  for  twenty  thou- 
sand people,  and  that  an  area  of  coun- 
try seventy  miles  square  had  been  sub- 
dued by  the  faith,  the  labor  and  the 
energy  of  the  colonizers  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

From  afar  the  Lord  God  of  heaven 
has  gathered  His  people,  and  as  a  result 
of  obedience  to  the  precious  truths  that 
have  been  revealed  from  our  Father  in 
heaven  to  men  they  have  been  brought 
unto  this  mountain  country,  and  been 
made  free  men.  They  have  been  taught 
how  to  conquer  the  soil,  how  to  subdue 
this  arid  country.  They  have  been 
taught  by  good  and  wise  men,  who 
have  been  filled  with  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord,  how  to  bring  to  pass  and  ful- 
fils the  sayings  of  the  prophets,  and  to 
make  the  dry  ground  glorious,  and  to 
cause  by  their  faith  that  springs  of  liv- 
ing water  should  burst  forth  in  dry 
places,  that  the  soil  might  produce  in 
its  strength  for  the  sustenance  and 
blessing  of  the  people.  And  these  things 
are  the  direct  result  of  "Mormonism." 
They  have  been  brought  to  pass  among 
the  children  of  men  through  obedience 
to  the  principles  that  were  revealed  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  that 
were  taught  by  President  Brigham 
Young  and  by  all  the  presidents  and 
chief  men  of  Israel,  who  have  builded 
to  the  pattern  that  was  given  long 
years  ago  by  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord  through  the  great  prophet,  Joseph 
Smith. 

I  wondered  also,  while  listening  to  the 
testimonies  of  these  presidents  of 
stakes,  many  of  whom  have  come  from 
remote  places  and  are  perhaps  scarcely 
known  to  the  great  majority  of  the  peo- 
ple, what  comfort  the  enemies  of  Israel 
could  find  in  the  spectacle  that  has  been 
presented  in  the  reports  that  have  been 
made  by  these  men.  It  is  stated,  you 
know,  among  our  enemies,  that  a  few 
men  of  intelligence  preside  over  us,  and 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


the  rest  are  in  bondage  and  serfdom; 
that  the  people  are  under  the  hands  of 
a  few  astute  men,  who  have  banded 
themselves  together  that  they  may  keep 
the  Mormon  people  under  control  and  in 
a  species  of  bondage.  I  could  not  help 
but  ask  myself  the  question,  What  can 
the  people  think  who  are  not  of 
us,  and  who  have  been  led  to  believe 
this  statement  that  has  gone  out, 
when  they  see  standing  up  in  this 
great  congregation  men  who  are  as 
deeply  impressed  with  the  truth  of 
the  everlasting  Gospel  as  are  the  Apos- 
tles who  preside  over  them;  men  who 
comprehend  the  truth,  who  love  the 
truth,  and  who  have  dedicated  them- 
selves and  their  talents  to  the  upbuild- 
ing of  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  wondered 
if  it  was  possible  for  the  enemies  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  glean  any  comfort 
from  these  men,  whom  they  have  sup- 
posed were  serfs  in  the  midst  of  this 
people.  Blind  indeed  are  we  if  we  are 
not  able  to  discern  the  glorious  fact 
that  these  men  are  free,  that  they  have 
been  converted  to  the  Gospel,  that  they 
comprehend  its  truth,  and  that  they  are 
determined  with  the  help  of  the  Lord 
and  the  inspiration  of  His  Holy 
Spirit  to  carry  on  this  work  in  the  stakes 
of  Zion,  to  keep  their  hands  to  the  plow 
and  to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  the 
Lord,  and  that  they  are  not  men  that 
can  be  easily  turned  aside.  I  think  it 
has  been  made  evident  that  they  are 
men  of  character,  of  strong  beliefs,  and 
that  they  will  not  be  turned  either  to 
the  right  hand  or  to  the  left,  but  that 
they  will  press  steadily  on  in  the  ac- 
complishment of  the  purposes  of  the 
Lord. 

Our  condition  today,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  is  but  a  fulfilment  of  the  prom- 
ise that  has  been  made  unto  us  by  our 
Father  in  heaven  through  the  mouth  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph;  for  the  Prophet 
declared  a  long  time  ago  that  these 
very  things  which  we  witness  at  the 
present  time  were  to  come  to  pass,  and 
I  desire  to  read  to  you  a  word  or  two 
concerning  this  promise  that  our  Father 
made  in  the  very  inception  of  this  work 
in  reference  to  the  future  of  the  work 
and  the  men  who  were  to  be  called 
from  time  to  time  to  represent  Him  in 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  among  the 
Inhabitants  of  the  earth.  The  Lord 
said: 


"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 
unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these 
last  days.  '  1 

'And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them." 

My  heart  swells  within  me  with  inex- 
pressible joy  when  I  think  of  the  won- 
derful fulfilment  of  the  promise  of  the 
Lord  made  almost  before  there  was  any 
Church;  when  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  like  his  Master  before  him,  stood 
alone  in  the  world.despised  and  hated  of 
men,  laughed  at  by  the  people,  yet  with 
the  promise  given  him  of  the  Lord  that 
the  servants  who  were  to  be  called  in 
these  last  days  should  go  forth  and  that 
none  should  stay  them.  The  period  of 
laughing  at  the  statements  of  the 
Prophet  of  God  is  past  forever.  The 
mighty  hosts  of  Israel  who  stand  up  in 
evidence  of  the  truth  and  of  the  inspira- 
tion of  His  words  are  of  such  a  power 
that  they  cannot  be  laughed  out  of  ex- 
istence. The  Lord  God  has  accom- 
plished thus  far  the  work  that  He 
promised  He  would  accomplish  by  the 
mouth  of  His  Prophet,  and  He  has  giv- 
en a  reason  for  the  preaching  of  this 
Gospel  and  for  the  calling  of  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith: 

"Wherefore  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the 
calamity  which  should  come  upon  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon 
my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave 
him  commandments; 

"And  also  gave  commandments  to 
others,  that  they  should  proclaim  these 
things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this  that 
it  might  be  fulfilled,  which  was  written 
by  the  prophets." 

In  compassion  for  His  sons  and 
daughters  He  called  upon  His  servant 
Joseph  and  others,  that  the  threatened 
calamity  might  be  averted,  that  the 
destruction  which  was  coming  upon  the 
earth  because  of  the  transgression  of 
law  and  the  breaking  of  the  ordinances 
might  be  turned  away,  and  that  the 
people  might  be  saved  through  the 
everlasting  Gospel.  Because  of  His 
love  for  the  children  of  men  He  called 
His  servants  and  gave  them  command- 
ments, clothed  them  with  the  authority 
of  the  holy  Priesthood,  and  sent  them 
forth  with  a  message  of  glad  tidings. 
The  result  has  been  that  we  have  these 
communities — sober,  industrious,  God- 
fearing communities — communities  that 


ELDER  MARRINER  W.  MERRILL. 


65 


have  attracted  the  attention  of  the 
■world  by  their  labors  and  success.  The 
fruits  of  their  labors  bear  witness  that 
the  source  from  'which  they  have  drawn 
their  inspiration  is  a  good  source. 

God  help  us  .to  be  true  to  this  work, 
which  has  done  so  much  for  us.  I  heard 
a  brother  say  not  long  ago  that  the 
Gospel  had  done  more  for  him  than  he 
had  ever  done  for  the  Gospel;  and  I 
think  if  we  will  look  into  our  own 
hearts  every  man  and  woman  in  Israel 
will  feel  to  say:  The  Gospel  has  done 
everything  for  me;  God  help  me  and  my 
children  after  me,  from  generation  to 
generation,  to  be  true  to  It;  for  it  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation.  This  is 
my  testimojiy,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Come,  come  ye  Saints; 

No  toil  nor  labor  fear, 
But,  with  joy,  wend  your  way. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Hyrum  M. 
Smith. 

AT  THE  TABERNACLE. 

Closing  session,  2  p.  m.,  April  6. 
Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

We  thank  Thee,  O  God.  for  a  prophet. 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 

We  thank  Thee  for  sending  the  Gospel, 
To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 

Prayer  by  Elder  John  D.  T.  McAllis- 
ter. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins :  v 

Ye  simple  souls  who  stray 
Far  from  the  path  of  peace, 

That  lonely,  unfrequented  way 
To  life  and  happiness. 

ELDER  MARRINER  W.  MERRILL. 

Importance  of  Manual  training  for  the  Ynulh — How 
to  gain  freedom  fmm  debt. 

I  am  very  thankful  for  the  privilege 
of  attending  this  conference,  and  to  see 
the  interest  manifested  by  the  Saints 
in  their  presence  at  the  meetings.  We 
have  certainly  had  an  excellent  time,  a 
grand  conference  so  far;  and  the  policy 
of  hearing  from  the  presidents  of  the 
stakes  and  the  missions  abroad  is  one 
that  I  believe  meets  with  the  hearty 


approval  of  all  the  Saints.  The  Saints 
in  the  outlying  districts  feel  that  they 
are  remembered,  that  they  are  recog- 
nized, and  reported  by  those  who  have 
immediate  charge  of  the  various  fields 
of  labor.  The  results,  I  am  sure,  will 
be  good,  and  the  Saints  will  be  satis- 
fied. 

The  opening  remarks  of  our  president 
gave  us  some  texts  to  talk  upon,  not 
only  here,  but  when  we  go  home.  I 
think  they  should  not  be  lost  sight  of 
by  the  brethren  from  the  various  parts 
of  the  Church.  The  subject  of  training 
our  sons  and  daughters  in  principles  of 
usefulness  deserves  our  attention. 
While  some  of  the  brethren  were  talk- 
ing about  it,  especially  Supt.  Tanner, 
I  thought  it  would  be  almost  impossi- 
ble to  teach  all  our  boys  in  technical 
schools,  if  they  were  established.  But 
there  is  opportunity  to  teach  them 
trades  if  they  do  not  have  the  advan- 
tages of  a  technical  school.  When  they 
are  taught  trades  as  they  are  in  the  old 
world  they  become  very  thorough- 
more  so,  I  think,  than  they  would  in  a 
technical  school,  unless  they  followed  it 
until  graduation.  To  my  mind,  this  is 
an  important  subject,  because  we  have 
so  many  young  men  and  young  women 
that  need  to  be  taught.  We  find  that  if 
we  want  to  employ  a  mechanic  it  is 
difficult  to  get  one  that  has  been  raised 
in  our  midst.  Of  course,  there  are  a 
few  scattered  up  and  down  the  coun- 
try; but  it  is  difficult  to  secure  skilled 
labor  from  among  our  own  people. 
Now,  we  are  just  beginning  to  build  up 
this  country.  Look  back  on  Salt  Lake 
City  fifty  years,  and  you  will  see  that 
a  vast  improvement  has  been  made  in 
that  time;  but  look  forward  fifty  years, 
and  what  will  you  see?  We  need  arti- 
sans. Our  boys  should  learn  trades. 
The  Bishops  and  presidents  of  stakes 
should  take  this  matter  in  hand.  I 
knew  a  Bishop  once  who  ran  across  five 
young  men  that  came  from  the  old 
country.  They  went  to  the  Bishop  to 
know  what  to  do,  and  he  told  them  to 
each  learn  a  trade,  and  he  assigned 
them  different  trades.  They  did  not  feel 
very  well  satisfied  about  it;  they 
thought  they  could  do  something  else 
to  more  profit,  that  would  bring  them 
in  something  at  once;  but  they  were 
finally  persuaded  to  learn  *  trade,  and 
they  stayed  with  their  employers  until 


66 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


they  were  skilled  workmen.  Every  one 
of  them  today  is  in  comfortable  circum- 
stances, having  had  employment  from 
that  time  till  now.  There  is  no  need  of 
our  boys  going  off  to  Montana,  or  out  of 
the  country,  to  fine  employment;  for 
there  is  plenty  here.  Teach  our  boys 
trades,  is  the  thing  to  do.  We  must  not 
forget  this  when  we  go  home,  because 
we  have  many  young  throughout  the 
country  who  need  some  encouragement 
in  this  regard.  It  is  the  word  of  the 
Lord  to  the  people,  and  we  can  all  read- 
ily see  the  necessity  for  it. 

Another  text  given  was  in  regard  to 
not  going  in  debt.  Perhaps  some  of  us 
are  in  debt,  with  our  homes  mortgaged. 
It  is  a  bad  thing,  but  it  >s  done.  Now, 
do  not  do  it  any  more.  Lift  your  mort- 
gages and  obligations  the  very  first  op- 
portunity, and  be  free. 

I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  another 
thing  that  was  said,  because  I  know  it 
is  true  from  experience,  and  that  is, 
that  the  easiest  and  shortest  way  to 
get  out  of  debt  is  to  first  pay  our  tith- 
ing, promptly  and  honestly,  and  then 
the  promise  of  the  Lord  is  that  the  way 
shall  be  opened  up,  and  we  will  be 
able  to  liquidate  our  obligations.  Be 
patient  -in  the  matter.  Remember 
the  Lord  first,  and  then  turn  our 
attention  to  our  creditors.  Pay 
them  just  as  fast  as  we  can; 
but  do  not  go  in  debt  any 
more.  Let  our  families  live  within 
their  income.  If  you  get  $3  or  $5  a  day, 
live  on  considerably  less  than  that.  I 
knew  a  young  couple  that  started  out 
in  life,  and  the  man  worked  for  $20  a 
month  and  the  wife  worked  for  $2  a 
week.  They  were  hired  out  when  they 
were  married,  because  they  hadn't  any- 
thing else  to  do.  How  much  did  they 
save  out  of  that?  I  took  pains  to  in- 
quire into  the  matter  and  I  learned 
that  they  saved  $12  a  month.  When 
they  quit  that  work  and  went  to  house- 
keeping they  had  considerable  means  on 
hand,  with  which  they  bought  what 
they  needed.  People  think  that  cannot 
be  done.  Why,  I  knew  that  two  peo- 
ple can  live  on  $10.  a  month,  because  I 
have  watched  this  thing  for  many 
years.  We  have  high  ideas  about  every- 
thing now.  The  young  people  must  have 
everything  that  their  fathers  and  moth- 
ers have.  The  first  thing,  they  must 
have  a  house,  well  furnished,  before 


they  can  get  married.  I  do  not  think 
that  is  a  good  idea.  My  experience  has 
taught  me  otherwise.  Get  married, 
young  people.  It  is  the  duty  of  all  who 
are  of  marriageable  age,  to  get  mar- 
ried. And  get  married  in  the  Temple. 
Then  work  together,  put  up  with  cir- 
cumstances as  they  are,  and  improve 
them  as  fast  as  you  can.  But  do  not  go 
in  debt.  Do  not  go  beyond  your  means 
to  buy  fine  furniture.  Better  live  in  a 
cabin. 

These  are  practical  things,  which 
should  be  of  interest  to  our  people.  We 
do  not  want  our  young  men  and  young 
women  to  float  around;  we  want  thera 
to  stay  with  the  Saints.  We  want  them 
to  build  up  Zion  wherever  they  are  lo- 
cated. When  they  are  called,  then  is  the 
time  to  go — not  before.  Do  not  run  up 
and  down  the  country  to  improve  your 
condition,  unless  you  can  go  by  the 
counsel  of  the  Priesthood.  Use  economy 
and  live  within  your  means.  Teach 
the  boys  trades.  Be  a  wise  and  a  con- 
siderate people.  Seek  for  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  to  guide  us.  Seek  for  the 
counsel  of  the  brethren  who  preside. 
There  are  men  appointed  of  the  Lord 
throughout  the  land  to  counsel  and  ad- 
vise with  the  people.  Go  to  them  for 
counsel;  advise  with  them,  and  you  will 
go  about  right.  But  when  we  under- 
take to  go  on  our  own  hook,  we  are 
pretty  sure  to  get  off  wrong. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  inspire  the 
Saints  to  carry  out  the  counsel  given. 
May  we  make  our  lives  useful  and  hon- 
orable in  the  earth.  I  bear  you  my  tes- 
timony that  this  work  is  true.  It  is 
from  God.  I  testify  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  great  Prophet  of  God,  raised  up 
in  our  day  and  time  to  usher  in  the 
Gospel  dispensation.  Thousands  of  peo- 
ple have 'had  this  evidence  and  testi- 
mony, and  we  know  the  work  is  true. 
It  is  not  our  work;  it  is  not  the  work 
of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church;  it  is 
God's  work,  and  He  has  placed  these 
men  to  direct  the  affairs  of  the  work, 
and  let  us  give  heed  to  their  counsel. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALBERT  R.  SMITH, 
(President  of  San  Luis  Stake.) 

I  appreciate  very  much  the  instruc- 
tions we  have  received  so  far  during 
this    Conference,  and    especially  the 


ELDER  EDWARD  H.  SNOW. 


spirit  that  has  characterized  the  utter- 
ances of  the  brethren. 

Representing1  the  San  Luis  Stake  of 
Zion,  I  feel  to  say  that  we  are  a  long 
way  from  the  headquarters  of  the 
Church,  a  small  stake  located  in  the 
central  southern  part  of  Colorado,  and 
bordering  on  to  New  Mexico,  two  or 
three  branches  of  the  Stake  being  in 
New  Mexico.  This  Stake  has  been  or- 
ganized about  twenty  years.  Prior  to 
that  time  a  colony  had  been  planted 
there  under  the  direction  of  the  leaders 
of  the  Church,  a  few  people  being  called 
to  go  there  from  Utah.  Many  people 
from  the  Southern  States  emigrated  to 
that  land,  and  we  should  by  this  time 
have  quite  a  populous  Stake  had  all 
remained  who  gathered  there;  but 
many  who  came  from  the  Southern 
States  found  the  climate  too  rigorous 
for  them,  and  they  scattered  into  other 
Stakes  or  returned  to  their  former 
homes.  We  have  now  four  wards  and 
three  branches  in  the  Stake,  and  they 
are  so  scattered  that  it  requires  trav- 
eling six  hundred  miles  in  order  to 
reach  them  all.  We  have  been  very 
kindly  treated  by  the  people  of  the 
state  of  Colorado.  The  lands  upon 
which  we  have  located  have  been  al- 
most entirely  state  lands,  which  we 
have  purchased  from  the  state.  We 
have  been  encouraged  in  that  land  by 
the  officials,  and  we  have  no  complaints 
to  make.  In  fact,  when  there  were 
perilous  times  for  the  Saints  in  this 
State  and  in  other  localities,  the  nu- 
cleus formed  in  the  San  Luis  valley 
was  like  a  house  of  refuge  to  many 
who  were  being  persecuted,  and  who 
for  the  time  being  found  peace  and  rest 
there.  Our  people  have  not  made  very 
great  progress  financially.  Our  country 
is  perhaps  not  so  much  favored  as  some 
other  localities.  We  live  in  a  high  alti- 
tude, and  it  is  rather  cold;  yet  we  pro- 
duce grains  that  bear  equally  to  almost 
any  other  place.  It  is  a  well  watered 
country  usually.  Last  season  was  an 
exception,  we  being  affected  by  the 
general  drouth  that  prevailed;  but  we 
have  splendid  prospects  now  for  the 
raising  of  grain  and  stock.  Many  of 
the  people  who  have  gathered  there 
have  been  like  children  in  the  Gospel, 
and  it  has  required  a  great  deal  of  pa- 
tient labor  to  get  them  to  understand 


and  live  up  to  their  duties.  Our  people 
have  made  rapid  advancement  in  obey- 
ing the  law  of  tithing,  considering  their 
lack  of  understanding  in  the  beginning. 
Those  who  bear  the  holy  Priesthood  are 
united,  and  are  laboring  for  the  ad- 
vancement of  the  cause  of  God.  We  are 
united  with  one  another,  and  with  the 
counsels  and'  instructions  of  the  lead- 
ers of  the  Church.  We  And  it  difficult 
to  disseminate  the  teachings  of  the 
Conference  in  that  Stake.  Very  few 
representatives  are  able  to  come  this 
long  distance  to  Conference,  on  account 
of  the  comparative  poverty  of  the 
people;  but  those  who  do  come,  when 
they  return  they  try  to  spread  the 
teachings  and  spirit  of  the  Conference. 
At  our  next  monthly  gathering  of  the 
Priesthood  there  will  be  two  meetings 
held,  and  the  officers  of  every  depart- 
ment in  the  Stake  will  be  instructed  by 
the  representatives  here.  In  this  way 
we  expect  to  disseminate  the  teachings 
of  the  Conference. 

I  am  grateful  to  be  engaged  in  the 
work  of  God.  I  feel  that  it  does  not 
matter  so  much  where  we  labor  if  we 
are  willing  to  labor  where  God  appoints 
us.  He  will  see  to  it  that  we  are  pro- 
vided for,  and  that  we  and  our  poster- 
ity are  led  in  the  ways  of  righteous- 
ness. Although  we  may  not  find  such 
pleasant  places  as  others  in  this  life, 
we  will  obtain  eternal  life.  I  have  an 
abiding  faith  and  testimony  in  the 
work  of  God,  and  I  feel  in  my  heart  to 
say,  His  name  be  praised  that  He  has 
given  you  and  me  a  knowledge  that  sur- 
passeth  understanding,  a  divine  testi- 
mony that  we  are  engaged  in  His 
work;  and  whatever  may  come  to  us, 
having  this  knowledge  and  this  per- 
fect assurance,  we  will  indeed  be  happy. 
That  God  may  bless  the  Saints  every- 
where, and  bless  us  to  accomplish  the 
mission  He  has  assigned  unto  us  in 
preaching  the  Gospel  and  in  building 
up  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  and  rearing  our 
children  in  the  fear  of  God,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang-  the  anthem: 
"Let  the  Mountains  Shout  for  Joy." 

ELDER  EDWARD  H.  SNOW 
(President  of  St.  George  Stake). 
I  take  pleasure  and  pride,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  in    reporting    the  St. 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


George  Stake  of  Zion,  over  which,  with 
Thomas  P.  Cottam  and  George  F. 
Whitehead  as  my  counselors,  I  have  the 
honor  to  preside.  This  stake  of  Zion 
includes  Washington  county,  in  "the 
southwestern  part  of  this  state,  and  all 
the  settlements  of  the  Church  in  the 
state  of  Nevada.  There  are  twenty- 
two  wards  and  nine  branches,  and  a 
population  of  about  5,600,  stretching 
over  a  large  area  of  territory,  and  re- 
quiring a  little  over  a  thousand  miles 
of  travel  for  us  to  reach  them  all.  The 
stake  presidency  visit  all  of  the  wards 
in  Washington  county  once  every  quar- 
ter, and  the  settlements  in  Nevada 
twice  a  year.  We  are  united  as  a 
Stake  presidency,  and  hold  our  council 
meetings  once  a  week.  We  are  also 
united  with  our  High  Council,  and  with 
them  hold  council  meeting  on  the  first 
Saturday  in  the  month,  and  a  prayer 
circle  the  last  Sunday  in  each  month. 
We  have  the  usual  High  Priests'  quo- 
rum, three  quorums  of  Seventy  and  five 
quorums  of  Elders  in  the  stake.  We 
have  a  most  excellent  people;  in  fact, 
I  beilieve  we  have  the  best  pople  there 
are  in  the  Church.  It  is  an  old  stake. 
Many  illustrious  men  have  lived  there 
— men  who  have  been  marked  by  rea- 
son of  their  integrity  and  service  in  the 
Church  of  God.  Many  presidents  of 
stakes  and  of  missions  have  been  called 
from  this  stake..  At  present  I  call  to 
mind  that  there  are  fifteen  brethren 
presiding  over  stakes  in  Zion  and  mis- 
sions abroad  who  were  born  and  reared 
in  this  stake. 

I  want  to  endorse  what  has  been  said 
by  President  Smith  in  relation  to  debt 
and  diversity  of  industry.  We  believe 
that  in  our  stake.  There  are  not  per- 
haps more  than  half  a  dozen  mort- 
gages of  any  kind  on  record  in  our 
county.  We  are  trying  to  get  upon 
a  cash  basis,  and  pay  as  we  go.  I 
firmly  believe  that  there  ought  to  be  a 
greater  diversity  of  industries  among 
us.  State  builders  must  have  a  diver- 
sity of  industry;  and  if  the  word  of 
President  Smith  needed  any  corrobora- 
tion among  us  as  a  people,  I  might  call 
your  attention  to  the  fact  that  all  the 
great  educators  of  our  land,  those  who 
think  and  reflect  and  are  above  the 
strife  and  influence  of  the  commercial 
spirit,  unite  today  in  defining  the  word 


"education"  as  the  power  and  ability 
to  do  some  useful  thing. 

May  God  impress  the  teachings  of 
this  conference  upon  our  hearts  and 
minds,  that  they  may  bear  fruit  in  our 
lives,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  OSMOND 
(President  of  Star  Valley  Stake). 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  it  to 
be  quite  a  privilege  as  well  as  a  duty 
to  stand  before  this  large  audience  and 
report  briefly  the  Star  Valley  Stake  of 
Zion,  in  which  I  and  my  counselors 
have  the  responsibility  of  presiding.  It 
is  a  small  stake,  comparatively  speak- 
ing, in  the  western  part  of  the  state  of 
Wyoming,  and  formerly  formed  part  of 
the  Bear  Lake  Stake.      It  was  organ- 
ized as  a  separate  stake  in  August,  1892. 
Since  that  time  there  has  been  consid- 
erable of  an  increase  in  its  population, 
although,  being  outside,  as  it  were,  of 
the  Church  generally,    our  population 
has  been  a  floating  one.     It  consists  of 
two  small  valleys,  containing   an  area 
of  probably  150  square  miles  of  habit- 
able land.     We  have  nine  wards  com- 
pletely organized.     Thus    far    I  can 
speak  with  confidence  as  to  the  stake. 
I  can  also  tell  you  that  our  population 
is  about  2,300.     But  when  you  come  to 
more  minute  particulars  in  relation  to 
our  condition,  I  feel  to  be  truthful  and 
represent  us  as  we  really  are.     I  think, 
though,  that  we  average    pretty  well 
with  the  other  stakes  of  Zion,  and  I 
am  led  to  believe  this  from  the  fact 
that  when  we  are  called  upon  to  do 
anything,  we  come  as  near  doing  it  as 
probably  other  stakes  do.      Hence  I 
think  we  average  up  with  other  stakes 
in  paying  tithing  and  in  other  respects. 
Still,  as.  has  been  remarked  of  other 
stakes,  there    is    great  room  for  im- 
provement.    If  there    were  not,  there 
would  be  nothing  for  the  Priesthood  to 
do.      We  are  not  perfect,  but  we  are 
headed  in  that  direction.     My  brethren 
and  I  are  laboring  to  set  an  example 
to  the  people,  that  we  may  say,  Follow 
us  as  we  follow  those  who  preside  over 
us.     A  great  deal  that  has.  been  said 
in  relation  to  other  stakes  would  apply 
to  ours.     We  have  different  classes  of 
people,  as  you  have.     I  think  we  will 
have  candidates  for  every    degree  of 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 


69 


glory.  But  I  do  believe  that  the  great 
bulk  of  the  people  are  trying  earnestly 
and  honestly  to  serve  the  Lord  and  to 
keep  His  commandments.  As  a  rule, 
the  people  are  aiming  to  do  right;  but 
sometimes  they  are  poor  marksmen  and 
miss  the  mark.  We  have  in  course  of 
erection  a  large  tabernacle,  so  that  it 
will  be  sufficient  to  hold  all  the  people 
who  may  come  to  conference.  This  is 
a  great  need  with  us  at  the  present 
time.  My  counselors  are  united  with 
me.  The  Priesthood  generally  are 
united,  and  trying  to  set  an  example 
to  the  rest  of  the  people,  that  we  may 
not  only  say,  "Do  as  we  tell  you,"  but 
"Do  as  we  do." 

May  the  Lord  help  us  all  to  improve, 
that  our  reports  from  year  to  year  may 
show  an  improvement,  not  only  in  our 
particular  stakes,  but  in  all  the  Church. 
I  ask  this  blessing  upon  us  and  upon 
our  labors,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 

My  beloved  brethren,  sisters  and 
friends.  Eleven  months  ago  I  left  this 
beautiful  city  to  take  a  special  mission 
to  Europe.  I  spent  about  six  months  in 
the  city  of  Copenhagen,  Denmark,  en- 
gaged in  literary  labors,  helping  to  pub- 
lish a  new  edition  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon in  the  Danish-Norwegian  lang- 
uage, it  being  the  fourth  edition  of  that 
book  to  be  published  in  that  language. 
After  completing  that  labor,  it  became 
my  privilege  and  duty  to  travel  some- 
what extensively  throughout  the  Brit- 
ish Isles,  Holland,  Germany,  Denmark, 
Sweden  and  Norway,  in  the  interest  of 
Church  history,  and  also  in  visiting 
the  different  branches  and  conferences 
as  they  are  organized  in  these  differ- 
ent countries. 

I  desire  on  this  occasion,  as  I  have 
just  returned  home,  to  bring  a  hearty 
greeting  from  the  brethren  and  sisters 
over  on  the  other  side  of  the  waters.  We 
nave  some  very  faithful  Saints  in  Eu- 
rope. We  have  preached  the  Gospel  in 
the  British  Isles  since  1837.  We  have 
preached  the  Gospel  in  Germany  since 
3S51,  in  Scandinavian  countries  since 
1850.  Thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints 
have  emigrated  to  these    lands,  and 


there  are  thousands  of  faithful  Latter- 
day  Saints  living  there  at  the  present  • 
time,  who,  like  us,  are  praying  for  the 
welfare  of  Zion,  and  who  are  listening 
to  the  voice  of  inspiration,  though  not 
altogether  as  we  do..  They  haVe  to  be 
content,  to  a  certain  extent,  with  the 
written  word.  It  is  true,  once  in  awhile 
one  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  others 
visit  those  lands;  but  the  most  they  get 
of  the  words  of  our  leaders  is  through 
the  written  word.  But  they  read  this 
written  word.  The  proceedings  of  this 
conference  will  be  translated  to  some 
extent  into  the  German,  the  Dutch,  the 
Swedish  and  the  Danish-Norwegian 
languages,  and  thus  the  people  on  that 
side  of  the  ocean  will  derive  some  bene- 
fit from  what  is  being  done  here. 

I  rejoice  to  have  the  privilege  to  re- 
turn to  you  just  in  time  to  attend  this 
conference;  and  while  I  am  on  my  feet 
I  desire  to  bring  you  a  hearty  greeting 
from  President  Francis  M.  Lyman,  one 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  who  at  the 
present  time  presides  over  the  Euro- 
pean mission.  The  brethren  and  sisters 
over  there  respect  him  as  a  man  of 
God,  as  he  really  is.  He  is  a  father 
in  every  sense  of  that  word  to  the 
brethren  who  are  laboring  under  his 
direction,  and  to  the  Saints  whom  he 
visits  from  time  to  time.  Last  July 
we  had  the  pleasure  of  having  him  with 
us  in  Copenhagen,  Denmark,  on  the  oc- 
casion of  dedicating  the  most  beautiful 
house  that  has  ever  been  built  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  Europe.  It  has  a 
hall  with  a  seating  capacity  of  600. 
We  are  just  erecting  a  beautiful  build- 
ing in  the  city  of  Christiania,  Norway: 
and  we  are  taking  steps  to  erect  an- 
other beauiful  building  in  the  city  of 
Stockholm,  Sweden.  We  repoice  in  the 
fact  that  the  Lord  is  pouring  out  Hi.-? 
Spirit  upon  His  people  in  those  lands, 
and  I  am  a  living  witness  and  want  to 
bear  testimony  to  the  fact  that  I  know 
God  is  no  respector  of  persons.  It 
does  not  make  any  difference  where  we 
are  born,  nor  the  language  we  speak. 
The  Lord  can  be  found  upon  the  islands 
of  the  sea.upon  the  continent  of  Europe, 
and  the  continents  of  Africa  and  Asia, 
where  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  visit- 
ing, as  well  as  upon  this  land  of  Amer- 
ica.   If  we  seek  God,  His  blessings  will 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


•  follow  us.  If  we  obey  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel,  it  matters  not  where  we  do 
it,  we  will  receive  the  same  blessings. 
The  Lord  pours  out  His  Spirit  upon  us, 
no  matter  where  we  are.  Many  are  the 
wonderful  testimonies  that  I  have  list- 
ened to  during  my  late  visit  to  Europe. 
When  people  have  spoken  even  in  for- 
eign tongues,  unknown  to  the  majority 
of  the  people  here,  the  Spirit  of  God 
has  been  poured  out  upon  the  speakers; 
and  when  they  have  defended  the  char- 
acter of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  I 
have  seen  the  power  of  God  manifested 
in  a  manner  that  has  made  an  impres- 
sion upon  me  which  I  shall  never  for- 
get. 

I  am  glad  to  come  home  to  these 
mountains.  I  have  been  from  here  a 
number  of  times  on  missions.  I  do  not 
know  but  I  have  been  more  blessed  on 
this  short  special  mission  than  I  have 
on  any  of  my  former  missions;  at  least, 
I  have  been  blessed  to  as  great  an  ex- 
tent.I  come  homie  to  youfeeling  thankful 
for  the  experience.  I  am  thankful  to  God 
my  Heavenly  Father  that  He  has  in- 
deed revealed  himself  in  these  the  last 
clays  and  has  restored  the  fullness  of 
His  Gospel.  I  thank  God  for  my  home 
in  these  mountains,  and  I  do  not  know 
that  I  ever  returned  to  Salt  Lake  City 
from  a  foreign  mission  when  I  rejoiced 
sc  much  in  the  fact  of  coming  back 
home  as  I  did  on  this  occasion.  There 
were  reasons  for  this.  We  did  not  have 
a  very  pleasant  journey  home.  We  had 
sadness  on  the  road.  We  lost  two  of 
our  little  company  of  Saints — something 
that  has  not  happened  for  many  years. 
Yet  in  this  I  see  the  hand  of  God.  I 
know  His  will  has  been  done  in  the 
matter,  as  it  is  continually  being  done 
wherever  His  sons  and  daughters  put 
their  trust  in  Him. 

I  ask  God  to  bless  us  as  a  people. 
This  has  indeed  been  a  beautiful  con- 
ference; at  least,  it  has  been  so  to  me: 
and  I  hope  that  the  spirit  of  this  con- 
ference will  go  from  here  to  all  parts  of 
the  world,  not  only  to  the  different 
stakes  of  Zion,  but  to  the  uttermost 
parts  of  the  world  where  our  brethren 
are  laboring  as  dispensers  of  truth  to  a 
fallen  world.  God  bless  us  all.  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

bnanlmity  of  the  Church  Authorities— Relating  to 
Capital  and  Labor  Combinations— Preservation 
of  Liberty— Duties  within  the  family  circle. 

I  would  have  preferred,  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  to  have  listened  to  a  continuation 
of  the  testimonies  and  reports  of  the 
presidents  of  stakes  and  of  missions. 
Nevertheless,  I  feel  happy  in  the  priv- 
ilege of  standing  in  your  presence  upon 
this  occasion,  and  I  desire  to  say  to 
you  that  President  Brigham  Young 
sends  greeting  to  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  thanks  you  for  your  faith  and 
prayers  in  his  behalf.  He  is  in  a  criti- 
cal condition,  but  with  good  faith,  and 
determined,  if  possible,  to  make  a  live 
of  it  and  accomplish  much  work  in  the 
future.  I  desire  to  report  that  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church  are  in  the  en- 
joyment of  the  spirit  of  their  calling 
and  in  unison  in  their  work;  and  to  say 
of  the  Council  of  the  Apostles  that  each 
one  of  them  is  anxious  to  perform  his 
part  and  discharge  the  obligations  rest- 
ing upon  him  to  the  best  of  his  ability. 
The  good  feelings  and  wishes  of  Elder 
Lyman  have  been  given  to  you  by  our 
brother  who  has  just  returned  from 
that  field.  Brother  Grant  also  joins  in 
greetings  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and 
rejoices  in  their  growth  and  develop- 
ment and  in  the  good  spirit  of  union 
that  is  manifest  among  the  people.  He 
is  anxious  to  extend  the  work  in  that 
land  as  fast  and  as  far  as  it  may  be 
practicable.  I  desire  to  say  further  that 
the  Patriarch  of  the  Church  is  in  uni- 
son with  the  Presidency  of  the  Church 
and  the  Council  of  the  Apostles.  The 
presidents  of  the  Seventies,  as  you  have 
heard  from  them,  are  in  like  spirit  and 
action  with  their  brethren.  I  believe  the 
same  is  true  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
of  the  Church.  The  general  authorities 
of  the  Church  are  fully  in  attune  with 
each  other  in  connection  with  the  work 
that  is  assigned  them  to  do.  I  know  of 
no  time  in  my  connection  with  the  work 
of  the  Almighty  when  the  general  au- 
thorities of  the  Church  were  more  in 
unison  and  with  a  higher  regard  and 
love  for  one  another  than  they  possess 
today. 

I  trust  that  the  words  that  have 
been  spoken  and  the  reports 
that  have  been  made  will  write  them- 


ELDER  JOHN  HNRY  SMITH. 


selves  upon  the  hearts  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  It  is  necessary  that  we 
unite  ourselves  together  in  the  accom- 
plishment of  every  spiritual  and  tem- 
poral work  that  the  Lord  may  set  us 
to  do.  Every  stake  of  Zion  should  be 
uniting  its  interests  and  seeking  to  pro- 
vide, so  far  as  within  its  power,  a 
variety  of  employment  essential  to  the 
development  of  that  section.  The  peo- 
ple should  be  striving  to  thus  unite 
their  efforts  and  accomplish  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Almighty.  I  believe  in 
combinations  of  capital,  I  believe  in 
combinations  of  labor,  so  long  as  those 
combinations  shall  not  presume  to  in- 
terfere with  the  rights  and  liberties  of 
their  fellowmen.  But  when  they  pre- 
sume to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion 
and  their  efforts  are  in  the  direction  of 
harm  to  their  fellows,  I  am  opposed  to 
them,  one  and  all.  I  trust  that  the 
spirit  of  the  instructions  given  during 
this  conference  has  found  lodgment  in 
every  one  of  your  hearts,  that  you  have 
determined  to  do  the  bidding  of  the 
Master,  to  guard  your  own  liberties,  to 
preserve  the  liberties  of  your  fellow- 
men;  that  you  propose  to  carry  with 
you  the  spirit  of  the  words  that  fell 
from  the  lips  of  President  Winder  this 
morning,  that  having  been  made  par- 
takers of  the  heavenly  gift  of  entering 
the  sacred  precincts  of  the  house  of 
God,  the  covenants  you  have  made 
there  to  honor  your  fathers,  to  honor 
the  laws  and  institutions  of  -your  coun- 
try and  to  maintain  the  rights  and  lib- 
erties of  your  fellowmen,  will  be  sus- 
tained by  you  in  every  place  and  in 
every  station  where  Providence  shall 
call  you  to  act.  I  trust  that  the  senti- 
ments of  your  heart  shall  be  to  have 
your  homes  pervaded  with  the  spirit  of 
prayer;  that  as  fathers  and  mothers 
you  shall  remember  to  have  your  chil- 
dren taught  to  pray,  and  that  thought- 
lessness and  disregard  of  these  obliga- 
tions shall  not  come  in  among  you.  I 
trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
each  sentiment  expressed  by  our  breth- 
ren will  find  place  within  you,  and  that 
you  will  be  led  to  glorify  the  iiame  of 
your  Father  in  heaven;  that  the  voice  of 
of  the  truth,  distilled  upon  your  ears 
in  your  native  land,  shall  continue  to 
guard  and  guide  every  one  of  our  lives 
in  this  land  where  we  have  our  home, 


beneath  the  shades  of  these  mountains, 
where  should  exist  the  spirit  of  liberty, 
the  love  of  God,  respect  for  right,  and 
a  determination  to  pvjrrorm  our  part  to 
the  best  of  our  ability. 

When  these  brethren  testify  to  you 
that  they  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  the  priest, 
hood  of  the  Son  of  God  is  among  the 
children  of  men,  they  testify  to  you  a 
truth  that  you  know  yourselves.  I  trust 
that  you  seek  in  your  ministry  to  so  la- 
bor that  the  results  of  your  lives  will 
demonstrate,  in  the  character  and  min- 
istry of  your  children  and  your  neigh- 
bors, your  absolute  knowledge  of  the 
truth  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  it  would 
be  imprudent  for  me  to  take  more  time. 
Perform  your  part  in  righteousness. 
Impress  upon  the  minds  of  your  sons 
and  daughters  that  no  son  or  daughter 
of  Zion  need  enter  any  other  church  to 
receive  the  ministration  of  the  laying 
on  of  hands  for  the  healing  of  the  sick; 
that  when  God  bestowed  this  Gospel 
and  turned  the  key,  He  placed  with  it 
the  power  to  heal  the  sick,  to  rebuke 
evil  spirits,  and  to  command  evils  to 
subside,  and  if  we  will  live  as  we  should 
live  and  instruct  our  children  as  we 
should,  they  will  never  hunt  any  other 
than  the  ministrations  of  the  servants 
of  God  to  be  healed  of  their  sickness  or 
to  have  evil  rebuked  from  their  homes, 
but  they  will  come  to  you  for  the  aid 
and  comfort  necessavy  for  them  in  the 
midst  of  their  distresses.  This  that  has 
been  given  to  us  is  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation.  Its  mission  and  min- 
istry is  the  regeneration  of  the  world, 
the  establishment  of  righteousness,  the 
cleansing  and  purifying  of  mankind; 
and  if  you  will  walk  m  the  pathway  of 
the  Gospel,  and  fulfill  the  requirements 
thereof,  no  man  can  complain  of  your 
morality;  no  man  can  find  fault  with 
your  temperance;  no  man  can  censure 
the  spirit  of  justice, charity  and  mercy 
that  shall  guide  you  in  your  lives.  God 
Himself  introduced  His  word  in  this 
day  and  age  of  the  world.  He  introduc- 
ed His  Son  to  the  children  of  men.  He 
pointed  the  way  of  life  to  all  His  sons 
and  daughters,  and  has  set  you  upon 
the  road  to  aid  in  the  regeneration  of 


72 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


the  world  and  in  the  establishment  of 
righteousness.  May  He  bless  you  for- 
ever. May  you  be  obedient  to  the  truth. 
May  you  do  the  bidding  of  the  Master. 
This  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

V 

THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 

Of  the  Church  were  presented  by 
President  Joseph  P.  Smith,  to  be  voted 
upon  by  the  Conference,  as  follows: 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet,  Seer 
and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

John  R.  Winder,  as  First  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 
Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Second  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Brigham  Young-,  as  President  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles. 

Ap  members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve 
Apostles:  Brigham  Young,  Francis  M. 
Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith,  George 
Teas  dale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W.  Tay- 
lor, Marriner  W.  Merrill,  Matthias  F. 
Cowley,  Abraham  O.  Woodruff,  Rudger 
Claw  son,  Reed  Smoot  and  Hyrum  M. 
Smlih. 

John  Smith,  as  Presiding  Patriarch 
of  the  Church. 

Tho  Counselors  in  the  First  Presiden- 
cy and  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the 
Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers 
and  Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies: 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted.  Brigham  Henry  Roberts,  George 
Rtynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
b.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston,  as  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  Or- 
rin  P.  Miller  as  his  first  and  second 
Counselors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith  as  Trustee-inTrust 
for  the  body  of  religious  worshipers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

As  members  of  the  General  Church 
Board  of  Education:  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  James 
Sharp,  John  Nicholson,  George  H. 
Brimhall,  Rudger  Clawson,  Joseph  M. 
Tanner,  and  John  R.  Winder. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  Histor- 
ian and  General  Church  Recorder. 


Andrew  Jenson,  O.  F.  Whitney,  A. 
M.  Musser  and  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  as- 
sistant historians. 

John  Nicholson,  as  clerk  of  the  Con- 
ference. 

THE  TABERNACLE  CHOIR, 
was  also  presented,  as  follows: 

Leader  and  Conductor — Evan  Steph- 
ens. 

Secretary  and  First  Counselor — Rob- 
ert T.  McEwan. 

Treasurer,  Librarian  and  Second 
Counselor— George  C.  Smith. 

Organist — John  J.  McClellan;  and  all 
the  members  of  the  choir. 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG  ACADEMY. 

In  compliance  with  a  requirement  of 
law,  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  the  Brig- 
ham Young  Academy  were  presented  to 
the  Conference  for  approval,  as  fol- 
lows : 

Board  of  Trustees  of  the  Brigham 
Young  Academy,  Provo,  Utah— Jos.  F. 
Smith,  president;  David  John,  vice 
president;  Wilson  H.  Dusenberry, 
Brigham  Young,  Susa  Y.  Gates,  Reed 
Smoot,  Stephen  L.  Chipman,  John 
Henry  Smith,  Jesse  Knight,  Lafayette 
Holbrook,  Oscar  B.  Young,  Jonathan 
S.  Page,  Jr. 

All  of  the  voting  was  unanimously  in 
the  affirmative. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Satisfactory  character  of  reports— What  is  expected 
of  the  priesthood— Glorious  destiny  of  American 
Nation  -  The  Church  its  strong  supporter  , — Cha- 
racters of  those  who  misrepresent  this  commun- 
ity—Saloons and  their  Keepers— The  honorable 
do  not  assail  the  people  of  God- 
Brethren   and   sisters;    I  have  been 
delighted,  beyond  my  power  to  express, 
with  the  spirit  of  this  conference,  with 
the  spirit  of  those  who  have  spoken 
to  us,  with  the  subjects  that  they  have 
dwelt  upon,  and  with  the  reports  which 
they  have  made  to  us  in  general  con- 
ference assembled.    I  believe  that,  in 
the  policy  we  have  pursued,  we  are  car- 
rying out,  in  a  measure  at  least,  the 
original  design  and  purpose  in  the  Lord 
of  holding  these  annual  and  semi-an- 
nual conferences.    The  Lord  made  it 
obligatory  in  former  days  that  con- 
ferences should  be  held  frequently,  and 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


73 


that  representatives  from  all  the  vari- 
ous branches  and  organized  bodies  of 
the  Church  should  he  present,  with 
power  and  authority  to  report  their 
condition  and  standing  and  to  speak 
of  any  matter  that  would  affect  the 
welfare  and  prosperity  of  the  people 
thejr  represented.     There  is  another 
purpose,  I  think,     subserved    in  the 
policy  that  we  have  pursued,  which  I 
consider   a   worthy   one,    and  .that  is 
this:    We  want  the  people  to  under- 
stand, and  we  would  like  the  world  to 
understand,  the  great  fact  that  it  is 
not  the  prominent  leaders  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
that  wield  all  the  influence  among  the 
people  of   this  Church.     We  want  it 
understood  that  we  have  fewer  lay- 
in  embers  in  this  Church,  in  proportion 
to  the  number  of  our  membership,  than 
you  will  find  in  any  other  church  upon 
the  globe.     Nearly  every  man  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  holds   the  Melchisedek  or  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  may  act  in  an 
official  capacity  by  authority  of  that 
priesthood  whenever  called  upon  to  do 
so.    They  are  priests  and  kings,  if  you 
please,  unto  God  in  righteousness.  Out 
of  this  vast  body  of  priests  we  call  and 
ordain  or  set  apart  our  Presidents  of 
Stakes,     our    counselors,     our  High 
Councilors,  our  Bishops  and  their  coun- 
selors, our  Seventies,  our  High  Priests, 
and  our  Elders,  upon  whom  rests  the 
responsibility  of  proclaiming  the  Gos- 
pel of  eternal  truth  to  all  the  world,  and 
upon  whom  also  rests  the  great  and 
glorious   responsibility    of  maintaining 
the  dignity,  the  honor  and  the  sacred- 
ness  of  that  calling  and  Priesthood.  So 
that  nearly  every  male  person  in  the 
Church,  who  has  reached  the  years  of 
accountability,  is  supposed  to  be,  in  his 
sphere,  a  pillar  in  Zion,  a  defender  of 
the  faith,  an  exemplar,  a  man  of  righte- 
ous ness,  truth  and  soberness,  a  man  of 
virtue  and  of  honor,  a  good  citizen  of 
the  state  in  which  he  lives,     and  a 
staunch  and  loyal  citizen  of  the  great 
country  that  we  are  proud  to  call  our 
home. 

This  great  American  nation  the  Al- 
mighty raised  up  by  the  power  of  His 
omnipotent  hand, that  it  might  be  possi- 
ble in  the  latter  days  for  the  kingdom 
of  God  to  be  established  in  the  earth. 


If  the  Lord  had  not  prepared  the  way 
by    laying    the     foundations   of  this 
glorious  nation,  it  would  have  been  im- 
possible (under  the  stringent  laws  and 
bigotry   of    the    monarchical  govern- 
ments of  the  world)  to  have  laid  the 
foundations  for  the  coming  of  His  great 
kingdom.    The  Lord  has  done  this.  His 
hand  has  been  over  this  nation,  and  it 
is  His  purpose  and  design  to  enlarge  it, 
make  it  glorious  above  all  others,  and  to 
give  it  dominion  and  power  over  the 
earth,  to  the  end  that  those  who  are 
kept  in  bondage  and  serfdom  may  be 
brought  to  the  enjoyment  of  the  fullest 
freedom  and  liberty  of  conscience  possi- 
ble for  intelligent  men  to  exercise  in  the 
earth.    The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  will  be  a  strong  sup- 
porter of  the  nation  of  which  we  are  a 
part,   in  the  accomplishment  of  this 
grand  purpose.  There  are  no  more  loyal 
people  to  their  country  on  God's  earth 
today  than  are  the  Latter-day  Saints 
to  this  country.    There  are  no  better, 
purer  or  more  honorable  citizens  of  the 
United  States  to  be  found  than  are 
found  within  the  pale  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
testify  to  this,  and  I  know  whereof  I 
speak.    We  never  have  been  enemies 
to  our  nation.  We  have  always  been 
true    to    it.    Though    we    have  been 
persecuted,    we    have     said,   We  will 
put   our  trust   in   thee.   We  have  been 
driven  and  maligned,  not  by  the  nation, 
but  by  insidious,    wicked,  unprincipled, 
hypocritical,  lying,    deceitful    goats  in 
sheep's  clothing,    who  are    jealous  and 
constantly  raising  a  hue  and  cry  against 
the  covenant  people  of  God.    Our  gov- 
ernment would  have  befriended  us,  pro- 
tected us,  preserved  our  rights  and  lib- 
erties, and  would  have  defended  us  in 
the  enjoyment  of  our  possessions,  if  it 
had  not  been  for  these  infernal  hounds 
who  are  enemies  to  morality  and  to 
the  truth.    If  there  is  anything  despic- 
able, if  there  be  anything  that  can  nev- 
er, no,  never,  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
God,  it  is  a  wilfull  liar;  and  if  we  have 
not  been  lied  about,  maligned  and  mis- 
represented of  late,  then  I  do  not  know 
what  lying  is.  Well,  let  the  falsifiers  go 
on  and  lie.    Some  people  are  evidently 
doomed  to  lie.   President  Woodruff  used 
to  say  there  were  some  people  in  his 
day  who  were  born  to  lie,  and  they  were 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


true  to  their  missions.  There  are  some 
of  these  born  liars  still  with  us  and 
still  true  to  their  mission.  They  cannot, 
it  would  seem,  tell  the  truth;  they  often 
do  not  when  it  would  be  for  their  best 
good.  S0  let  them  go  on  and  lie  as  much 
as  they  desire.  But  let  us  do  right,  keep 
the  laws  of  God  and  the  laws  of  man, 
honor  our  membership  in  the  kingdom 
of  God,  our  citizenship  in  the  State  of 
Utah  and  our  broader  citizenship  in  the 
nation  of  which  we  are  a  part,  and  then 
God  will  sustain  and  preserve  us,  and 
we  will  continue  to  grow  as  we  have- 
done  from  the  beginning,  only  our  fu- 
ture growth  will  be  accelerated  and  be 
far  greater  than  it  has  been  in  the  past. 
These  slanders  and  falsehoods  that  are 
circulated  abroad  with  the  view  of 
bringing  the  ire  of  the  nation  upon  us 
will  by  and  by  be  swept  away,  and  be- 
cause of  these  misrepresentations  the 
truth  will  be  brought  out  clearer  and 
plainer  to  the  world.  Thus  the  word  of 
the  Lord  will  be  verified,  that  they  can- 
not do  anything  against  but  for  the 
kingdom  of  God.  This  is  the  Lord's 
work;  it  it  not  man's;  and  He  will 
make  it  triumphant.  He  is  spreading 
it  abroad,  and  giving  it  deep  root  in  the 
earth,  that  its  branches  may  grow  and 
spread,  and  its  fruit  be  seen  through- 
out the  length  and  breadth  of  the  land. 

By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them. 
Men  do  not  gather  grapes  of  thorns,  nor 
figs  .of  thistles;  neither  does  a  bitter 
fountain  send  forth  sweet  water.  We, 
as  a  people,  deplore  as  much  as  any- 
body can  the  existence  of  evil  amongst 
us.  But  when  our  brethren  get  up 
here  and  talk  as  some  have  done,  "We 
have  saloons;  we  have  all  the  'modern 
improvements'  "—WE  have  them— I 
wish  they  would  take  the  pains  to  dis- 
tinguish as  to  who  "we"  is.  If  they 
mean  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
saloons,  then  they  are  mistaken.  It  is 
not  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  sustain 
saloons.  If  they  are  fostered  and  sus- 
tained in  the  midst  of  Latter-day  Saint 
communities,  they  are  sustained  by  men 
that  are  either  in  bad  standing  or  have 
no  standing  at  all  in  the  Church.  The 
most  of  them  are  sustained  by  men  who 
do  not  belong  to  the  Church.  I  will 
venture  to  say  that  over  here  in  Eme- 
ry county,  where  we  hear  of  saloons 
and  "modern  improvements,"  that  there 


is  not  a  saloon  run  by  a  Latter-day 
Saint.  But,  says  one,  hold  on,  Brother 
Smith,  there  is  one,  I  believe.  There 
was  one,  out  of  the  many,  that  used  to 
be  run  by  a  man  who  claimed  to  be  a 
member  of  the  Church;  I  don't  know 
that  it  is  now.  I  give  it  out  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  no  man  who 
is  a  Latter-day  Saint,  in  full  faith  and 
fellowship  in  the  Church,will  ever  keep 
a  saloon  anywhere.  Therefore,  if  there 
is  a  man  claiming  to  be  a  "Mormon" 
running  a  saloon  anywhere,  the  best 
thing  you  can  do  is  to  cut  him  off  the 
Church,  and  then  you  will  know  where 
he1  is  and  who  he  is.  He  is  not  a 
Latter-day  Saint,  at  all  events.  Now, 
when  you  say  WE  have  this,  and  WE 
have  that,  I  hope  you  will  draw  the 
distinction  between  Latter-day  Saints 
and  latter-day  devils. 

I  am  not  sorry  I  have  made 
theset  remarks,  because  it  will 
give  some  of  our  "friends"  a 
chance  to  say  something,  and  there  is 
nothing  like  having  a  little  of  the  spice 
of  life.  I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel.  I  re- 
joice in  the  mission  of  the  divine 
Savior,  the  Son  of  God.  I  know  it  is 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  I 
rejoice  in  the  name  and  in  the  mission 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith;  for  I 
know  his  mission  is  divine.  I  rejoice  in 
the  gathering  of  Israel  in  the  tops  of 
these  mountains  in  the  latter  days,  be- 
cause I  see  in  it  the  hand  of  the  Al- 
mighty, and  not  the  hand  of  Brigham 
Young,  nor  of  any  mortal  man.  No 
man  of  himself  could  ever  accomplish 
that  which  we  see  before  us.  The  Lord 
is  behind  it,  at  the  bottom  and  at  the 
top  of  it,  and  in  and  through  it,  and 
He  will  consummate  His  purpose.  The 
world  cannot  prevent  it  either,  because 
it  is  for  good,  not  for  evil.  If  it  were 
net.  for  good  I  would  pity  some  of  these 
poor  devils  that  we  have  amongst  us. 
But  we  will  be  patient,  longsuffering, 
and  forbearing.  We  will  say,  Let  God 
judge  between  us  and  our  enemies,  and 
award  them  according  to  their  deeds. 
We  will  not  harm  them.  On  the  con- 
trary, we  will  protect  them.  Though 
they  seek  to  defile  us  and  ridicule  our 
religion,  though  they  lie  about  us  and 
say  all  manner  of  evil  against  us  false- 
ly, we  will  not  hurt  them.  We  will  " 
them  good,  if  they  will  let  us.  We 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


75 


will  protect  them,  as  we  would  protect 
good  men  in  their  rights.  We 
will  do  all  we  con  to  protect 
the  rig-hts  of  mankind,  and  noth- 
ing to  break  down  the  liberties  of 
men.  This  is  our  mission,  and  I  pray 
God  to  help  us  to  be  true  to  our  mission, 
as  these  poor  creatures  who  lie  about 
us  are  true  to  theirs. 

Now,  when  I  speak  as  I  have  done 
about  the  lying  riff-raff  that  infests 
our  land,  I  do  not  wish  it  understood 
for  a  moment  that  I  refer  to  honorable 
men.  We  have  honorable  men  amongst 
us,  and  in  this  nation.  God  bless  and 
sustain  all  honorable  men.  We  will 
sustain,  not  only  the  rights  and  liber- 


ties of  the  honorable,  but  we  will  also 
defend  and  help  to  maintain  to  the  ut- 
termost the  liberties  and  rights  of  dis- 
honorable men.  We  have  honorable 
men  amongst  us,  and  they  are  ever  in 
the  favor  of  the  people  of  God. 

The  choir  sang: 

i 

Do    what  is  right;  the  day  dawn  is 
breaking, 

Hailing  a  future  of  freedom  and  light; 
Angels  above  us  are  silent  notes  tak- 
ing 

Of  every  action;  do  what  is  right. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Pre- 
siding Patriarch  John  Smith. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


Deseret  Sunday  School  Union. 


ITS  ANNUAL  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  general  semi-annual  conference 
of  the  Sunday  schools  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Sunday,  April  5,  1903,  at  7:30  p. 
m.  General  Superintendent  Jos.  F. 
Smith  presiding. 

Present:  of  the  general  superintend- 
ency,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  George  Reyno'.ds 
and  J.  M.  Tanner;  most  of  the  members 
of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
board,  several  of  the  Apostles,  and  the 
Tabernacle  was  packed  with  officers, 
teachers,  and  Sunday  school  workers 
and  Saints. 

The  tabernacle  choir  sang  the  hymn: 
"Earth  with  her  ten  thousand  flowers." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  W. 
Taylor. 

Messrs.  Ashworth,  Best,  Christopher- 
son  and  Squires  then  rendered  the 
quartet,  "God  is  love." 

Secretary  George  D.  Pyper  called  the 
roll  of  stakes,  all  but  two  being  repre- 
sented, as  also  were  the  Northwestern 
states,  California  and  Colorado  mis- 
sions. The  secretary  also  presented  the 
following  items  gleaned  from  the  an- 
nual report  of  the  Sunday  schools: 

Total  number  of  schools  in  the  organ- 
ized stakes,  749;  in  the  missions,  291 — 
grand  total,  1,040;  showing  a  gain  of 
64  schools  during  the  year — 33  in  the 
organized  stakes  and  31  in  the  mis- 
sions. 

Number  of  officers  and  teachers  in  the 
organized  stakes,  14,333;  in  the  mis- 
sions, 1,647 — total  officers  and  teachers, 
15,980;  a  gain  of  782. 

Number  of  pupils  in  organized  stakes, 
107,323,  of  whom  52,752  are  male  and 
54,571  females;  in  the  missions,  10,413, 
of  whom  4,821  are  males  and  5,592  are 
females— grand  total  of  pupils,  117,736; 


an  increase  of  3,811 — 2,818  in  the  stakes 
and  893  in  the  missions.  This  report 
shows  there  are  2,590  more  girls  than 
boys  in  the  Sunday  schools. 

Total  officers,  teachers,  missionaries 
and  pupils  in  the  stakes,  121,971,  in  the 
missions,  12,060— grand  total,  134,031;  a- 
total  increase  of  4,399  over  1901. 

The  average  attendance  for  1902  was 
58  per  cent,  the  same  as  for  the  pre- 
vious year. 

Secretary  George  D.  Pyper  then  pre- 
sented the  officers  of  the  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Union,  who  were  unani- 
mously sustained  as  follows: 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  general  superintend- 
ent, George  Reynolds,  first  assistant 
general  superintendent;  J.  M.  Tanner, 
second  assistant  general  superintend- 
ent. 

MEMBERS  OF  THE  BOARD. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  George  Reynolds, 
Joseph  M.  Tanner,  Thomas  C.  Griggs, 
Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  Levi  W.  Rich- 
ards, Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber  J. 
Grant,  George  Teasdale,  Hugh  J.  Can- 
non, Andrew  Kimball,  John  W.  Taylor, 
L.  John  Nuttall,  James  W.  Ure,  John 
F.  Bennett,  John  M.  Mills,  William  D. 
Owen,  Seymour  B.  Young,  George  D. 
Pyper,  Henry  Peterson,  Anthon  H. 
Lund,  John  R.  Winder,  James  E.  Tal- 
mage,  George  M.  Cannon,  Horace  Cum- 
mings,  Abraham  O.  Woodruff. 

George  D.  Pyper,  general  secretary; 
George  Reynolds,  treasurer;  Thomas  C. 
Griggs,  business  manager. 

GEORGE  REYNOLDS, 

First  Assistant  General  Superintend- 
ent, said: 

Since  we  met  here,  at  the  October 
conference,  six  months  ago,  the  General 
Board  of  the  union  has  had  a  very  busy 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


77 


time,  for  since  then  the  "Outlines"  have 
been  prepared  and  published.  We  have 
already  printed  41,000  copies  for  the 
benefit  of  the  Sunday  schools,  and  it 
appears  as  though  we  *shall  have  to 
print  many  more.  The  "Outlines,"  as 
has  been  explained  to  you,  are  intended 
to  bring  unity  in  the  subjects  and  in 
the  lessons  taught  in  our  Sunday- 
schools,  that  the  wide  world  over,  wher- 
ever there  are  schools,  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  there  shall  the  same  lesson 
be  taug-ht  on  the  same  Sunday,  thus 
unifying  our  efforts  and  giving  strength 
to  our  teachings.  The  preparation  of 
these  "Outlines"  has  required  a  great 
deal  of  study,  of  prayer,  and  of  work, 
but  we  feel  confident  that  where  ac- 
cepted, as  we  trust  they  will  be,  by 
our  schools,  that  the  teachers  will  fr 
them  a  great  help,  and  one  great  rea- 
son is  that  they  cannot  be  used  suc- 
cessfully and  advantageously  without 
preparation,  home  preparation  both  by 
the  teacher  and  the  scholar,  and  it  will 
consequently  make  the  work  more 
thorough  and  more  progressive. 

The  general  report  that  has  been  read 
to  you  is,  in  the  main,  satisfactory; 
but  there  is  one  item  that  is  some- 
what disappointing,  and  that  is,  tho 
average  of  increase.  You  will  notice 
that  our  increase  of  teachers,  officers 
Mid  pupils  is  only  about  4,000  for  the 
entire  year.  This  is  a  smaller  pro  rata 
increase  than  I  remember  for  many  a 
year.  There  may  be  many  causes  for 
it.  but  individually  I  believe  that  one  of 
the  chief  causes  is  a  lack  of  understand- 
ing on  the  part  of  some  superinten- 
dents who,  because  certain  ages  have 
been  suggested  for  the  pupils  in  each 
department,  and,  to  make  it  evident 
that  the  item  was  only  suggestive  it 
is  printed  in  the  "Outlines"  in  italics, 
yet  some  superintendents  have  en- 
deavored to  reorganize  their  schools 
and  to  grade  them  simply  on  the  basis 
of  the  age  of  the  child.  I  believe  this 
has  resulted  in  scores,  possibly  hun- 
dreds of  our  children,  leaving  school, 
because  when  simply  the  age  was  taken 
into  consideration  the  dullard  and  the 
bright  child  of  the  same  age  have  been 
put  into  the  same  class,  and  it  has 
caused  a  sense  of  annoyance  and  dis- 
comfort to  those  who  felt  that  they 
were  not  being  justly    treated.  Nc 


superintendent — and  I  trust  the  breth- 
ren will  listen  to  what  I  am  saying- 
no  superintendent,  without  he  expects 
to  injure  his  school,  will  grade  simply 
on  the  basis  of  the  age  of  the  child. 
There  are  other  considerations  that  are 
more  important,  and  that  are  never 
to  he  forgotten.  But  then  to  just  sim- 
ply grade  by  the  age  is  the  easier  way, 
and  one  that  gives  the  least  trouble, 
the  least  necessity  for  investigation. 
But  the  fact  is,  if  we  wish  to  do  our 
children  good,  we  must  place  them  in 
the  class  or  in  the  department  where 
they  will  learn  the  most,  where  they 
will  make  the  most  progress,  and  for 
which  they  are  best  fitted.  "We  must 
take  into  consideration  their  aptness, 
their  advancement,  their  desires,  their 
judgment,  as  well  as  their  age,  when 
they  are  graded. 

I  would  say  as  the  treasurer  of  the 
Union  board,  that  I  cannot  make  any 
definite  report  at  this  time  with  regard 
to  the  nickel  donation,  because  as  yet 
it  has  not  all  been  paid  to  me;  but  I 
can  say  this  much,  that  the  nickel  do- 
nation for  last  year  is  larger  than  it 
has  ever  been  before.  Nor  can  a  com- 
plete report  be  made  regarding  th«= 
prizes  offered  in  the  Juvenile  Instruc- 
tor, for  the  reason  that  we 
have  not  yet  been  able  to  make 
the  comparisons  necessary  before 
some  of  the  prizes  and  premiums 
can  be  awarded.  We  have  published 
those  premiums  that  have  been  awarded 
to  the  stakes  for  the  payment  of  the 
nickel  donation  within  the  time  speci- 
fied, but  further  than  this  we  shall  have 
to  claim  the  indulgence  of  the  Sunday 
school  workers.  Nor  is  the  fault  ours. 
But  in  a  little  while  we  expect  to  pub- 
lish them,  and  when  they  are  published 
the  books  awarded  will  be  at  the  dis- 
posal of  those  to  whom  they  are  given. 

There  is  one  thing  to  which  I  wish  to 
allude  for  a  few  moments,  and  that  is 
the  tendency,  in  some  of  our  schools,  to 
abridge  the  period  of.  their  sessions,  in- 
stead of  allowing  the  Sunday  school  to 
continue  the  full  two  hours,  from  10  to 
12  o'clock,  or  whatever  hours  it  may  be; 
that  is,  some  of  the  superintendents 
shorten  the  session  to  an  hour  and  a 
half,  sometimes  to  an  hour  and  a  quar- 
ter. It  is  not  desired  by  the  board,  as 
a  general  thing,  that  the  kindergarten 


78 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL,  UNION. 


and  the  primary  children  be  Kept  in  the 
full  two  hours,  because  we  know  well 
that  they  will  become  restless  and  tired, 
and  that  they  will  not  be  in  a  condition 
to  give  attention  to  that  which  is  taught 
them  during  the  latter  part  of  the  ses- 
sion. We  are  always  willing  that  the 
teachers  in  these  departments  should 
permit  the  children  to  leave  when  an 
hour  and  a  half  from  the  time  of  open- 
ing has  elapsed.  But  surely,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  two  hours  once  a  week 
for  the  religious  instruction  of  our  chil- 
dren in  the  Sunday  school  is  none  too 
much.  It  is  told  us  sometimes  that  it 
is  difficult  to  keep  up  the  interest  of 
the  children  for  that  length  of  time. 
But  we  generally  find  that  where  that 
complaint  is  made,  the  lack  of  interest 
is  less,  or  the  restlessness  is  less  in  the 
children  than  the  disinclination  of  the 
teachers  and  superintendents  to  teach 
the  full  two  hours.  We  also  find  that 
where  difficulties  of  this  kind  are  ex- 
pressed that  some  exercises  suggested 
by  the  Union  board  are  omitted  or  neg- 
lected. For  instance,  we  will  say  that 
there  is  a  certain  school  that  asserts 
that  it  cannot  keep  the  two  hours'  ses- 
sion going  with  profit.  On  investigation 
we  shall  probably  find  that  they  do  not 
have  a  ten  minute  singing  exercise,  that 
they  have  no  concert  recitations,  or  that 
the  lessons  from  the  "Outlines"  are  not 
gone  through  with  that  thorough- 
ness that  is  expected  of  them.  These 
are  the  reasons,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, why  there  is  a  difficulty.  It  is  be- 
cause things  essential  to  the  well  being 
and  the  progress  of  the  Sunday  schools 
are  neglected  and  omitted.  Those  who 
have  the  spirit  of  their  calling  and  a 
love  for  their  work  and  for  the  children 
will  have  no  difficulty,  under  ordinary 
circumstances,  in  keeping  the  children 
interested  for  the  full  two  hours  by  the 
variety  of  exercises  planned  and  car- 
ried out. 

I  will  say  that  taking  all  together,  we 
are  doing  well.  The  work  committed  to 
our  charge  is  receiving  good  attention. 
We  are  blessed  of  the  Lord  therein,  and 
the  establishment  of  stake  union  boards 
and  stake  union  meetings,  together  with 
the  publication  of  the  "Outlines"  is  ac- 
complishing much  to  make  the  schools 
more  thorough,  better  disciplined  and 
altogether  more  progressive. 


In  conclusion,  let  me  say,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  let  it  always  be  remembered 
that  our  object  in  the  establishment  of 
the  Sunday  schools,  the  reason  for  their 
existence  is  thaJt  we  may,  as  an  auxiliary 
organization,  strengthen  the  hands  of 
the  servants  of  God  in  making  Latter- 
day  Saints  of  the  children  of  God's  peo- 
ple, Latter-day  Saints  in  faith  and  in 
works,  who  will  love  the  Father's  work 
and  seek  to  upbuild  His  kingdom. 

May  God  bless  us  in  our  endeavors  to 
accomplish  this,  is  my  -rayer  through 
Jesus,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

WILLIAM  KIRKUP, 
•  Superintendent  of  Sunday  Schools  in 
the  Oneida  Stake,  said: 

The  Oneida  Stake  of  Zion  is  situated 
in  the  north  end  of  what  is  known  as 
Cache  valley.  We  have  in  that  stake 
twentv-four  Sunday  schools,  fully  or- 
ganized. We  also  have  a  stake  board 
of  twelve  members.  This  is  not  quite 
sufficient  to  accomplish  the  work  that 
is  designed  by  the  General  Board,  but 
we  have  a  limited  supply  of  material, 
and  if  we  were  to  draw  fully  from  the 
various  wards  for  the  number  of  mem- 
bers required  to  make  our  monthly  vis- 
its, it  would  materially  cripple  other 
organizations.  The  stake  superintend- 
ency  is  fully  organized  and  its  members 
are  in  perfect  harmony  with  each  oth- 
er. We  meet  every  week,  on  the  Mon- 
day night,  after  having  made  our  visits 
on  the  Sunday,  when  we  find  it  very 
convenient  to  make  our  reports,  and  in 
this  way  get  to  know  and  understand 
the  conditions  of  the  schools  visited. 

Our  stake  board  meets  every  month, 
and  visits  made  by  the  other  members 
of  the  board  are  then  reported.  We 
visit  three  Sundays  in  each  month.  We 
have  also  arranged  to  hold  regular 
quarterly  Stake  Sunday  school  union 
meetings.  We  have  been  holding  these 
meetings  for  three  years,  and  we  find 
them  very  beneficial  to  all  the  schools 
of  our  stake.  The  improvement  that 
has  been  made  since  this  organization 
was  effected  has  been  very  marked. 

We  have  lately  arranged  to  hold  dis- 
trict Sunday  school  union  meetings.be- 
cause  our  stake  is  very  widely  divided, 
our  settlements  being  in  some  cases 
very  distant;  and  we  thought  it  well 


DBSERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL.  UNION. 


79 


in  order  to  give  our  teachers  better  op- 
portunity of  hearing  instructions  from 
the  members  of  the  stake  board,  to  take 
the  union  meetings  to  them  occasion- 
ally; and  we  believe  that  by  taking 
these  meetings  to  five  different  districts, 
we  shall  be  able  to  accomplish  more 
good  than  we  can  by  calling  all  of  the 
Sunday  school  workers  together  in  one 
place  once  a  quarter.  It  would  be 
rather  difficult  for  us,  undejr  our  cir- 
cumstances, to  come  together  every 
month,  but  at  some  future  time  we  may 
be  afjle  to  do  better  than  we  are  now 
doing. 

We  feel  well  in  the  cause,  and  the 
progress  of  the  Sunday  school  work  in 
our  stake  is  very  encouraging.  We  are 
very  pleased  to  have  the  "Outlines."  We 
have  been  preparing,  in  our  stake,  an 
outline  of  our  own  for  the  past  three 
years,  and  we  fully  appreciate  the  la- 
bors of  the  board,  because  we  know 
how  much  work  it  takes  to  prepare 
them.  We  are  glad,  however,  that  now 
we  have  outlines  that  are  applicable  to 
all  the  stakes  of  Zion.  We  are  labor- 
ing to  the  end  that  we  may  get  a  proper 
understanding  of  them,  that  we  may  in- 
duce our  teachers  to  thoroughly  pre- 
pare themselves,  for  we  are  cognizant 
of  the  fact  that  without  thorough 
preparation  good  results  cannot  be  ac- 
complished. May  the  Lord  add  His 
blessings  to  our  labors  is  my  earnest 
prayer.  Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  B.  EVANS, 
Superintendent  of  Sunday  schools  of  the 
Weber  Stake,  said: 
I  am  pleased  to  report,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  there  are  thirty-one 
Sunday  schools  in  the  Weber  Stake  of 
Zion,  fully  organized.  Twenty-six 
members  constitute  the  Weber  Stake 
Sunday  School  Union  board.  We  have 
organized  a  union  meeting,  which  meets 
on  the  second  Sunday  in  each  month. 
We  also  have  what  we  call  a  local 
board  meeting  ,or  a  meeting  where  the 
officers  and  teachers  of  the  local  schools 
meet  together  with  the  idea  of  prepara- 
tion in  mind.  That  is,  each  teacher 
brings  an  individual  outline.  At  this 
meeting,  after  the  devotional  exercises 
are  over,  the  teachers  of  the  respective 
departments  prepare  what  we  term  a 


co-operative  outline.  This  enables  them 
to  thoroughly  prepare  themselves  upon 
the  subject  matter  to  be  presented  to 
the  children  on  the  Sunday  following. 
We  are  in  perfect  harmony,  I  believe, 
with  the  Union  Board,  aiming  to  carry 
out  their  instructions,  seeking  with  the 
help  of  the  Lord  to  establish  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in 
the  hearts  and  minds  of  the  children. 
May  the  Lord  help  us  to  this  end,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Professor  John  J.  McClellan  then 
rendered  on  the  organ  "Andantino"  (To 
My  Wife),  by  Lemaire. 

ELDER  JAMES  H.  TAGGART, 

Superintendent  of  Sunday  schools  of  the 
Morgan  Stake,  said: 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  reporting 
the  Morgan  Stake,  I  can  say  that  we 
are  and  have  been  patterning  after  the 
Weber  and  other  stakes.  Besides  the 
instructions  we  have  received  from  the 
General  Superintendemcy,  we  have  re- 
ceived instructions  from  Superintend- 
ent Evans  and  his  assistants.  We  have 
also  had  some  members  of  our  board 
visit  Cache,  Millard,  Boxelder,  Weber, 
Davis  and  Summit  Stakes;  and  have 
been  benefitted  by  the  good  points 
which  we  have  found  therein.  Our 
Sunday  schools  in  the  Morgan  Stake 
are  a  grand  success,  and  though  we  are 
a  small  stake,  we)  feel  that  we  shall 
be  able  to  make  a  good  mark.  We 
are  proud  to  say  that  we  are  all  unit- 
ed as  a  band  of  brethren  and  sisters. 
Our  worst  difficulty  is  the  trouble  we 
have  in  getting  the  young  metn  in  our 
Sunday  school.  We  are  all  laboring 
to  that  end,  and  are  succeeding  very 
well.  Our  local  board  meetings  are 
a  success,  but  I  am  sorry  to  say  that 
in  some  wards  we  have  not  as  yet 
been  successful  in  getting  them  start- 
ed, but  where  they  have  been  started 
they  are  working  satisfactorily.  I 
pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  all  and  our 
labors  in  the  Morgan  Stake,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSIAH  H.  BURROWS, 
Superintendent  of  Sunday  Schools  of 

the  Salt  Lake  Stake,  said: 
There  are  forty-one  Sunday  schools 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Stake  of  Zion,  having 


30 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL,  UNION. 


a  total  membership  of  some  10,199.  Our 
increase  during  the  past  year  was  944. 
So  the  remarks  of  Assistant  General 
Superintendent  Reynolds  certainly  do 
not  apply  to  the  Salt  Lake  Stake  in  re- 
gard to  the  matter  of  increase. 

Our  Stake  Sunday  School  Union 
Board  was  organized  last  November.  It 
consists  of  19  members,  four  of  whom 
are  sisters.  We  are  proud  of  our  Stake 
board,  and  feel  that  its  members  are 
working  together  as  nicely  as  possible 
for  the  advancement  of  the  interests  of 
the  Sunday  schools.  The  superintend- 
ency  meet  generally  twice  a  month  in 
council  meeting.  The  Stake  board  also 
meets  twice  a  month.  We  visit  the 
schools,  on  an  average,  about  once  in 
six  weeks,  and  enjoy  our  labors  to  a 
very  marked  degree.  Two  special 
points  we  have  been  concentrating  up- 
on during  the  last  year — the  importance 
of  superintendents  holding  regular 
monthly  council  meetings,  and  also  of 
holding  the  officers  and  teachers'  9:45 
prayer  meeting.  I  am  pleased  to  state 
that  all  of  the  schools  in  the  stake, 
with  the  exception  of  two  or  three,  ob- 
serve this  prayer  meeting,  and  the  num- 
ber of  superintendents  who  have  acted 
upon  the  suggestion  to  hold  regular 
council  meetings  is  increasing. 

We  are  impressed  with  the  impor- 
tance of  missionary  work  in  this  Stake 
of  Zion;  and  notwithstanding  that  five 
Sunday  schools  were  organized  last  year 
and  one  this  year, we  still  feel  that  there 
is  opportunity  in  several  wards  for  the 
organization  of  branch  or  cottage  Sun- 
day schools,  whereby  the  children  can 
b>e  brought  together, without  being  com- 
pelled to  go  such  great  distances. 

We  have  adopted  the  method  of  clas- 
sifying the  Stake  work  among  several 
committees  of  the  Stake  board.  We 
Tiave  one  committee  known  as  the  com- 
mittee on  appointments,  conferences, 
branch  schools  and  missionary  work, 
another  on  lessons  and  school  work, 
another  on  grade,  discipline,  special 
features,  anniversaries,  etc.,  another  on 
Sunday  school  choristers  and  music.and 
still  another  on  secretaries,  libraries 
and  janitors.  Since  the  organization, 
four  of  them  have  gone  to  work,  and  we 
have  been  giving  the  subjects  present- 
ed by  these  committees  as  careful  con- 


sideration as  our  experience  and  judg- 
ment enable  us  to  do. 

We  feel  that  we  are  now  entering 
upon  a  very  important  period  of  growth 
of  the  Sunday  school  work.  With  the 
adoption  of  the  "Outlines"  and  of  more 
systematic  methods  we  feel  that  there 
is  a  promising  period  before  us.  We  de- 
sire to  be'  united  with  the  general  Sun- 
day school  board  and  to  carry  out  the 
instructions  received  from  them. 

We  labored  last  year  to  make  our 
Sunday  school  conference  a  succe^,  and 
while  it  required  considerable  drilling 
and  labor,  we  think  it  repaid  our  efforts. 
We  are  now  trying,  in  accordance  with 
the  recommendations  of  the  Board,  to 
have  the  Sunday  schools  hold  annual 
Sunday  school  ward  conferences.and  we 
have  already  taken  part  in  a  number  of 
these  conferences.  The  preparation  that 
is  made  enables  the  schools  to  make 
progress,  it  enables  the  officers  to  see 
what  is  being  done,  and  it  is  beneficial 
in  many  ways. 

I  appreciate  very  much  the  responsi- 
bility that  rests  upon  me  in  connection 
with  my  associates.  We  are  working 
in  perfect  harmony  and  are  striving  to 
cultivate  the  spirit  of  our  calling.  We 
feel  that  it  is  a  field  that  is  worthy  of 
every  sacrifice  and  effort  that  we  can 
put  forth.  May  the  Lord  bless  one  and 
all,  from  the  General  Superintendent  to 
the  least  that  may  be  engaged  in  the 
Sunday  school  work,  to  the  glory  of  our 
Father  in  Heaven,  and  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

Sister  Lottie  Owen  then  sang,  "Cal- 
vary." 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH, 

General     Superintendent    of  Sunday 
Schools  of  the  Church,  said: 

I  desire  to  say  just  a  few  words.  The 
benefit  of  our  Sunday  school  work  to 
our  children  and  the  rising  generation 
cannot,  I  think,  be  too  highly  regard- 
ed by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  more 
especially  by  those  who  are  rearing 
children,  and  who  desire  to  have  their 
children  brought  up  and  to  grow  up  in 
the  way  they  should  go. 

One  of  our  brethren,  reporting  his 
labors  as  stake  superintendent  of  Sun- 
day schools,  made  a  remark  something 
like  this,  that  they  had  everything  in 


The, 
Semi-Weekly 

News 

(Official  Organ  of  the  Church) 
IS  SENT  AT 

ONE  DOLLAR  A  YEAR 

(Half  price)  to  people  away  from  the  organized  branches  of  the- 
Church.    (Foreign  postage  extra.) 

Address 

The  Deseret  News 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH. 


X  •  ♦> 

|  35oo  Copies  Sold  in  Six  Months  | 


T 


The  History 
of  the 


1          c  ^Church  I 

1  * 

*  I 

:•:  Volume  One  Contains  * 

*  X 

The  History  of   the    Prophet   Joseph   Smith  written  by  % 

Himself,  with  an  Introduction  by  P>.  H.  Eoberts.  £ 

|:-v  '  X 

The  following  low  prices  have  been  fixed  by  the  instructions 
X  of  the  First  Presidency,  in  order  that  the  work  may  secure  the 

X  widest  possible  circulation:  ❖ 

1  X 

*  y 

♦J*                Cloth  Embossed  $1.50  post  paid  X 

Half  Morocco  Gilt  Top    .  .  .    2.50  post  paid  % 

*** 

Half  Calf  2.50  post  paid  £ 

Morocco  Full  Gilt  .  .....   4.00  post  paid  f. 

t  X 

i'  x 

X         Every  family  should  have  a  copy  in  their  library.  •!• 

*:*         Send  for  a  free  catalogue  of  all  Church  Works.  •!♦ 

I  I 

%  The  Deseret  News  Book  Store,  1 

£  t 

%  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH. 

W.S-y         .                                                 •  X 

•>  V 

«~x~x~x~XK"X~x«<»x«**<~x^~x^^^ 


The, 
Semi-Weekly 

News 

(Official  Organ  of  the  Church) 
IS  SENT  AT 

ONE  DOLLAR  A  YEAR 

(Half  price)  to  people  away  from  the  organized  branches  of  the- 
Ch  urch.    (Foreign  postage  extra. ) 

Address 

The  Deseret  News 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH. 


?  t 

»  X 

£  35oo  Copies  Sold  in  Six  Months  I 


Y 

♦I* 


The  History 
of  the 


Volume  One  Contains 


8Church 


The  History  of  the   Prophet   Joseph   Smith  written  by  % 
£  Himself,  with  an  Introduction  by  B.  H.  Roberts.  X 

The  following  low  prices  have  been  fixed  by  the  instructions 


Cloth  Embossed    ^  $1.50  post  paid 


%  Every  family  should  have  a  copy  in  their  library. 
I*         Send  for  a  free  catalogue  of  all  Church  Works. 


X  of  the  First  Presidency,  in  order  that  the  work  may  secure  the 

X  widest  possible  circulation:  * 

jt  i 

y  ♦:♦ 


♦>  Half  Morocco  Gilt  Top    .  .  .    2.50  post  paid 

f.  Half  Calf    .  2.50  post  paid  % 

Morocco  Full  Gilt  .  .   .  .  .  .   4.00  post  paid 


❖ 

i 


I  The  Deseret  News  Book  Store,  1 

*  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH. 

***  ♦> 

■  ■•>/•  ,v-..  :%'^^r-\ry-x-~.-'-K^,r:.^y:% 

❖  ♦> 

.X~X"X"X~X~X~X"X~X*«X~X~X,<~X~X"X 


