O'iul  dfaindhsuL  Jsmik. 

SKMI AWIAL 

(MFEREM 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

Odtob&h  6,  7, 8, 1939 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

The  OLD  WITH  the  NEW  and  the  NEW  WITH  the  OLD 

JhsL  Book  ofc  VYhrwwtL 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.   Oi  course  the  text 
remains  the  same- 
Missionary  Edition  $  .50 

Cloth  Binding.  Embossed   1.50 

Full  Morocco   3.00 

J/vojfL  filowJboi^  io  (p/wph&L 

AND 

VYIdUwu  SinhisA.  Jjwwl  the  (Book  jojjL  TJtoAmo/L 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  that  children  love 
to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth.  $1.25 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  waranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price   $1.00 

JhsL  Cdo/ui  afi  (xthdonL 

By  JOHN  A.  WIDTOSE  and  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 

"A  Modem  Interpretation  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  showing  that  the  learning 
of  the  last  century  confirms  the  teachings  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  to  enlighten 
the  individual  towards  a  conservation  of  health." 

Price  in  Cloth  Binding.  $1.25 

In  Paper  Binding    .50 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


One  Hundred  Tenth  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Tenth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  6,  7,  and  8, 
1939. 

The  entire  proceedings  of  the  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt 
Lake  City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  public  generally. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided  at  each  of  the 
sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  l,  George  F.  Richards,  2,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R. 
Lyman,  3,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles  A.  Callis,  and 
Albert  E,  Bowen. 

Associate  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Sylvester  Q. 
Cannon.4 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy :  Rulon  S.  Wells, 5,  Antoine  R. 
Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  °,  Rufus  K.  Hardy,  and  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ashton, 
and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORTIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder :  ','  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William 
Lund,  assistants. 

Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
Patriarchs,  High  Priests,  Seventies,  and  Elders,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake,  and 
Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents:  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake 

1George  Albert  Smith  absent  on  account  of  illness. 

"Joseph  Fielding  Smith  in  Europe. 

3Melvin  J.  Ballard  passed  away  July  30,  1939. 

4Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

"Levi  Edgar  Young  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  New  England  Mission. 

"John  H.  Taylor  was  in  New  York,  assigning  to  their  new  fields  of  labor 
missionaries  returning  from  Europe. 

'Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Church  Historian,  was  in  Europe. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Day 

City.  All  other  mission  presidents  were  excused  from  attendance  at  this 
Conference,  having  been  requested  to  remain  in  their  various  mission- 
fields. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Friday  morning, 
October  6,  at  10  o'clock. 

As  the  time  approached  for  the  opening  of  the  Conference  the  great 
Tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  were  filled  with  people  who  had 
come  from  the  various  Stakes  and  Missions  of  the  Church  to  attend  the 
services. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  presided,  announced  that  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers,  Charlotte  O.  Sackett,  Conductor,  would  furnish 
musical  numbers  for  this  session. 

The  congregation  and  the  Singing  Mothers  then  sang  the  hymn, 
"High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 

Elder  Clarence  Gardner,  President  of  the  Star  Valley  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

"The  23rd  Psalm"  (God  is  My  Shepherd) — Schubert,  was  sung 
by  the  Singing  Mothers. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  AND  OFFICERS  SUSTAINED 

At  the  request  of  President  Grant,  President  David  O.  McKay  pre- 
sented for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities  and  General 
Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers,  and  they 
were  unanimously  sustained,  as  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Reed  Smoot  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  Albert  Smith  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

George  F.  Richards  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Stephen  L  Richards  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  3 


ACTING    PATRIARCH    TO    THE  CHURCH 

George  F.  Richards 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Acting  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

TRUSTEE  IN  TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee  in  Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Richard  L.  Evans 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


CHURCH    HISTORIAN   AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Rudger  Clawson  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  L.  West 

Stephen  L  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 
Richard  R.  Lyman 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER    OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 

SEMINARY  SUPERVISOR 

M.  Lynn  Bennion 

AUDITING  AND  FINANCE  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 


4 

Friday,  October  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor; 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

QRGANISTS 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTER 

ADVISERS 

John  A.  Widtsoe  LeGrand  Richards 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Marvin  O.  Ashton 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

John  H.  Taylor 
General  Presidency  of  the  Relief  Society 

GENERAL  COMMITTEE 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Mark  Austin  Sterling  H.  Nelson 

Campbell  M.  Brown  William  E.  Ryberg 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  Stringham  A.  Stevens 

J.  Frank  Ward 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Kate  M.  Barker,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG   MEN'S   MUTUAL   IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon  1st.  Asst.  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth.  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 


5 


YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  1st.  Asst.  Superintendent 
Edith  Hunter  Lambert,  2nd.  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD  AND 
BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST 
APRIL  CONFERENCE 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, read  for  the  information  of  the  Conference  the  following  report : 

New  Mission  Presidents : 

Leo  J.  Muir  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Northern  States  Mission 
to  succeed  President  Bryant  S.  Hinckley. 

John  F.  Bowman  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Central  States 
Mission  to  succeed  President  Elias  S.  Woodruff. 

Levi  Edgar  Young  appointed  to  preside  over  the  New  England 
Mission  to  succeed  President  Carl  F.  Eyring. 

Roscoe  C.  Cox  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Hawaiian  Mission  to 
succeed  President  W.  Francis  Bailey. 

John  A.  Israelsen  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Norwegian  Mission 
to  succeed  President  A.  Richard  Peterson. 

President  Gustive  O.  Larson  released  from  Swedish  Mission. 

President  M.  Douglas  Wood  released  from  West  German  Mission. 

President  Alfred  C.  Rees  released  from  East  German  Mission. 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  Swiss  Mission  President,  also  presiding  over  Fast 
and  West  German  Missions. 

President  Wallace  F.  Toronto  released  from  Czecho-Slovak  Mission. 
Mission. 

New  Stake  Organized: 

A  new  stake,  to  be  known  as  Pasadena  Stake,  was  organized 
October  1.  It  comprises  nine  wards:  Belvedere,  Eastmont,  Montebello, 
and  Whittier,  taken  from  the  Los  Angeles  Stake ;  Pasadena,  Rosemead, 
and  Alhambra,  from  the  original  Pasadena  stake ;  and  Baldwin  Park 
ward  and  Monrovia  branch,  from  the  San  Bernardino  stake. 

Other  changes  affecting  the  stakes  in  Southern  California  are  now 
under  consideration,  and  will  be  reported  later. 

New  Stake  Presidents  appointed : 

George  E.  Burgi  appointed  president  of  the  Oneida  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Taylor  Nelson. 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

Roy  B.  Burnham  appointed  president  of  Young  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Elmer  F.  Taylor. 

Alexander  Fraser  Dunn  appointed  president  of  the  Tooele  Stake 
to  succeed  President  Alfred  L.  Hanks. 

Fred  C.  Horlacher  appointed  president  of  the  Nevada  Stake  to 
succeed  President  Elmer  E.  Hinckley. 

John  M.  Iversen  appoined  president  of  the  Los  Angeles  Stake  to 
succeed  President  Leo  J.  Muir. 

David  A.  Butler  appointed  president  of  the  Snowflake  Stake  to 
succeed  President  Samuel  F.  Smith. 

Bryan  L.  Bunker  appointed  president  of  the  Moapa  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Willard  L.  Jones. 

Joseph  E.  Beard  appointed  president  of  the  Summit  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Willard  Heber  Wilde. 

Bertram  M.  Jones  appointed  president  of  the  newly  organized 
Pasadena  Stake. 

New  Wards  Organized : 

Van  Nuys  Wards,  Pasadena  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the 
North  Hollywood  Ward. 

Alamosa  Ward,  San  Luis  Stake,  transferred  from  Western  States 
Mission. 

Price  Third  Ward,  Carbon  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  Price 
First  and  Second  Wards. 

North  Eighteenth  Ward  and  South  Eighteenth  Ward,  Ensign  Stake, 
were  created  by  a  division  of  the  Eighteenth  Ward. 

Beverly  Hills  Ward,  Hollywood  Stake,  was  created  by  a  division 
of  Wilshire  ward. 

McKay  Ward,  Wells  Stake  .created  by  a  division  of  Waterloo  Ward. 

Columbus  Ward,  Wells  Stake,  created  from  parts  of  Wells  and 
Burton  Wards. 

Ivins  Ward,  Wells  Stake,  created  from  parts  of  McKinley,  Wells 
and  Belvedere  Wards. 

Tooele  Second  Ward  and  Tooele  Third  Ward,  Tooele  Stake, 
were  created  by  a  division  of  Tooele  North  Ward. 

Tooele  First  Ward  and  Tooele  Fourth  Ward,  Tooele  Stake,  were 
created  by  a  division  of  Tooele  South  Ward. 

Ward  Transferred : 

Tempe  Ward,  Maricopa  Stake,  transferred  from  Phoenix  Stake. 

Ward  Name  Changed: 

Fullerton  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  known  as  Anaheim 
Ward. 

Kirtland  Ward,  Young  Stake,  formerly  known  as  Burnham  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards : 

Mt.  View  Ward,  Lyman  Stake,  formerly  Independent  Branch. 
Modesto  Ward,  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  Independent  Branch. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 


7 


New  Independent  Branches : 

Romedell  Branch,  Blaine  Stake. 

Bellflower  Branch,  Long  Beach  Stake,  created  by  division  of  North 
Long  Beach  Ward. 

Monrovia  Branch,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  formerly  dependent 
branch  of  Baldwin  Park  Ward. 

Mercur  Branch,  Tooele  Stake. 

Chico  Branch,  Gridley  Stake,  formerly  dependent  branch  of  Oro- 
ville  Ward. 

Hailey  Branch,  Blaine  Stake,  formerly  dependent  Branch. 
Napa  Branch,  Oakland  Stake,  created  by  division  of  Vallejo  Ward. 

Ward  Made  Independent  Branch : 

Echo  Branch,  Summit  Stake,  formerly  ward  of  same  stake. 

Wards  Disorganized: 

Millburne  Ward,  Lyman  Stake  disorganized  and  annexed  to  Mt. 
View  Ward. 

Sublett  Ward,  Raft  River  Stake,  disorganized  and  annexed  to  Malta 
Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Disorganised: 

Rockford  Branch,  Chicago  Stake,  transferred  to  Northern  States 
Mission. 

Santa  Rosa  Branch,  San  Francisco  Stake,  transferred  to  California 
Mission. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away : 
Apostle  Melvin  J.  Ballard. 

Elder  Leonard  B.  Cluff,  Los  Angeles  Stake  Clerk. 

Bishop  Joseph  E.  George,  Auburn  Ward,  Star  Valley  Stake. 

Janne  Mattson  Sjodahl,  former  editor  of  the  Deseret  News,  and 
prominent  author  and  translator  of  Church  literature. 

Hyrum  Conrad  Pope,  chairman  of  the  board  of  temple  architects 
for  the  Church,  architect  for  Canadian  and  Hawaiian  Temples  and 
many  other  L.  D.  S.  buildings,  also  the  St.  Paul's  Episcopal  Church  in 
Salt  Lake  City. 

Asahel  Hart  Woodruff,  former  Northern  States  Mission  President. 
Daniel  J.  Lang,  former  president  of  French  Mission. 
James  M.  Peterson,  former  president  of  Texas  Mission. 
Ephraim  Magleby,  former  president  of  New  Zealand  Mission. 
Eleanor  Jeremy  Richards,  former  member  of  Primary  General 
Board. 

Clarissa  Hamilton  Young  Spencer,  daughter  of  Brigham  Young. 
Hulda  Cordelia  Thurston  Smith,  one  of  the  last  three  surviving 
pioneers  of  1847,  died  in  Lewiston,  Utah. 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Read  the  following: 

MESSAGE  FROM  THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY 
OF  THE 

CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 

The  long-threatened  and  dreaded  war  has  broken  out.  Its  end 
and  fruition  await  now  the  measure  of  God's  infinite  wisdom,  justice, 
and  mercy. 

"THOU  SHALT  NOT  KILL,"  STILL  A  LAW  UNTO  MAN 

The  divine  law  on  the  taking  of  human  life  was  proclaimed  at 
Sinai  and  in  the  Garden.  This  law,  we  declare,  is  equally  binding 
upon  men  and  upon  nations.    It  embraces  war. 

We  further  declare  that  God  is  grieved  by  war  and  that  he  will  hold 
subject  to  the  eternal  punishments  of  his  will  those  who  wage  it  un- 
righteously. 

THE  WICKED  TO  FEEL  GOD'S  WRATH 

We  affirm  that  all  international  controversies  may  be  settled  by 
pacific  means  if  nations  will  but  deal  unselfishly  and  righteously  one  with 
another.  We  appeal  to  the  leaders  of  all  nations  and  to  the  people  them- 
selves thus  to  mend  and  adjust  their  differences,  lest  the  vials  of  God's 
wrath  be  poured  out  upon  the  earth,  for  he  has  said  he  will  visit  his  wrath 
upon  the  wicked  without  measure. 

A  CALL  TO  REPENTANCE 

We  call  the  unrighteous  of  the  world  to  repentance — a  forsaking  of 
sin  and  a  returning  to  righteousness,  for  the  Lord  has  said : 

I,  the  Lord,  am  angry  with  the  wicked.  I  am  holding  my  Spirit 
from  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

I  have  sworn  in  my  wrath  and  decreed  wars  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth,  and  the  wicked  shall  slay  the  wicked,  and  fear  shall  come  upon 
every  man.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  63:32-33.) 

We  condemn  all  of  war's  foul  brood — avarice,  greed,  misery,  want, 
disease,  cruelty,  hate,  inhumanity,  savagery,  death. 

A  PLEA  FOR  LOVE  TO  TAKE  THE  PLACE  OF  HATE 

We  earnestly  implore  all  members  of  the  Church  to  love  their 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  all  peoples  whoever  and  wherever  they  are; 
to  banish  hate  from  their  lives,  to  fill  their  hearts  with  charity,  patience, 
long-suffering,  and  forgiveness.   The  Master  said: 

Love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse  you,  do  good  to  them  that 
hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully  use  you,  and  persecute 
you.  (Matt.  5:44.) 

We  ask  the  Lord  so  to  overrule  the  plans  and  designs  of  man  that 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


this  war  shall  not  spread  to  countries  not  now  involved,  and  especially 
that  America  shall  escape  the  material  and  spiritual  ravages  of  war. 

A  PRAYER  FOR  THE  BEREFT 

We  humbly  pray  God  to  bring  to  all  bereft  and  grieving  mothers 
the  sweet  consolation  of  his  Spirit,  to  the  widow  robbed  of  her  helpmeet 
a  faith  that  God  will  help  her  in  her  lonely  struggle  for  a  livelihood  for 
her  children,  to  those  fatherless  children  a  will  to  help  their  mother 
in  her  fight  for  their  welfare  and  existence,  and  to  peoples  everywhere 
an  increased  desire  and  determination  to  "renounce  war  and  proclaim 
peace,  and  seek  diligently  to  turn  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  their 
fathers  and  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children ;  *  *  *  lest,"  said 
the  Lord,  "I  come  and  smite  the  whole  earth  with  a  curse,  and  all  flesh 
be  consumed  before  me." 

We  pray  that  the  spirit  now  raging  in  men's  hearts,  of  hate,  of 
exploitation,  of  a  desire  to  dominate,  may  be  supplanted  by  the  spirit 
of  reconciliation  and  forgiveness,  that  in  obedience  to  principles  of  right- 
eousness and  of  justice  this  war  without  further  bloodshed  and  suffering 
may  be  brought  to  an  early  close. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations 
of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing-  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience 
to  that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated. 

Long  life,  joy,  peace,  and  happiness  come  to  every  soul  who  obeys 
the  laws  of  God.  It  is  pleasing  to  our  Heavenly  Father  that  we  live 
long  upon  the  earth,  and  he  has  given  to  us  a  Word  of  Wisdom,  a 
revelation  explaining  his  will  whereby  we  can  obtain  this  great  blessing  of 
long  life.  There  is  no  greater  blessing  in  all  the  world  than  to  live  upon 
the  earth  and  to  labor  in  that  way  and  manner  that  will  be  pleasing  and 
acceptable  to  God  our  Heavenly  Father. 

That  he  may  help  every  Latter-day  Saint  from  this  day  to  make 
up  his  mind  to  be  an  honest,  conscientious  tithe-payer ;  that  he  will  attend 
his  meetings  and  partake  of  the  Spirit  of  God  that  is  always  present  ; 
that  he  will  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I 
ask  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  happy  to  be  with  you  again  in  a 
Semi- Annual  Conference.  I  am  happy  to  hear  the  Singing  Mothers  with 
Sister  Sackett  leading  them. 

We  miss  this  morning  a  man  of  great  spirituality,  of  great  influence 
among  the  people,  Brother  Melvin  J.  Ballard.  May  the  Lord  sanctify 
his  labors  to  the  upbuilding  of  his  Cause. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

Because  what  I  shall  say  this  morning  will  deal  somewhat  with 
technical  matters,  where  the  language  is  of  importance,  I  have  submitted 
what  I  shall  say  to  writing,  so  that  I  may  not  speak  incautiously. 

CONSTITUTION  INSPIRED 

I  speak  today  as  an  American  citizen  who  believes  as  he  believes  in 
Deity,  that  God  inspired  the  framing  of  our  Constitution  and  the  setting 
up  of  our  form  of  government  thereunder, — an  American  citizen  who 
believes  that  the  preservation  of  this  government  under  our  Constitution 
as  it  now  stands  is  necessary  that  liberty  and  free  political  and  religious 
institutions  may  not  disappear  from  the  earth. 

A   NATION   WITH    CHRISTIAN  STANDARDS 

This  is  a  Christian  nation.  Before  the  Revolution  it  was  so  in  accord 
with  law ;  since  the  Revolution  it  has  remained  so  in  fact.  We,  the 
people  of  the  United  States,  guarantee  full  religious  freedom  to  all  with- 
in our  jurisdiction,  whether  they  be  non-Christian  or  Pagan.  But  the 
nation  itself  is  a  Christian  nation.  Our  standards  and  principles  are 
Christian.  Other  creeds  we  protect,  that  all  may  be  free.  These  facts 
must  never  be  lost  sight  of. 

For  us  of  the  Church  this  fact  cannot  be  challenged,  for  the  Lord 
has  declared  in  modern  revelation : 

Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it 
shall  be  free  from  bondage,  and  from  captivity,  and  from  all  other  nations 
under  heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ, 
who  hath  been  manifested  by  the  things  which  we  have  writterL  (Ether 
2:12) 

The  penalty  of  disobedience  to  these  principles  has  been  declared 
to  be  that  the  people  shall  "be  swept  off  when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath 
should  come  upon  them,"  and  that  "The  fulness  of  his  wrath  cometh  upon 
them  when  they  are  ripened  in  iniquity."  (Ether  2  :8,  9.) 

These  principles  have  been  repeatedly  declared. 

Thus  we  of  America  can  stand  for  no  cause  which  would  dethrone 
Christianity  here  and  put  in  its  place  any  other  creed,  whether  non- 
Christian  or  Pagan ;  nor  can  we  as  Christians  support  a  cause  designed  to 
set  up  non-Christian  or  Pagan  states  elsewhere  in  the  world.  Our  duty, 
divinely  imposed,  is  clear  on  this. 

DECLARATION  OF  BELIEF 

Furthermore,  for  more  than  a  hundred  years  this  Church  has  de- 
clared this  principle  of  government,  which  is  based  upon  divine  commands 
and  the  revelations  of  God's  will,  namely : 

We  believe  that  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit  of 
man ;  and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation  to  them 
both  in  making  laws  and  administering  them,  for  the  good  and  safety  of 
society. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


11 


We  believe  that  no  government  can  exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws 
are  framed  and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each  individual  the  free 
exercise  of  conscience,  the  right  and  control  of  property  and  the  protection 
of  life.  (D.  and  C.  134:1-2). 

Thus  we  can  stand  for  no  cause  and  can  support  no  state  fostering 
a  cause  that  would  seek  to  compel  the  consciences  of  men,  that  would 
set  up  the  state  as  deity,  that  would  destroy  private  property,  that  bulwark 
of  a  peaceful,  stable  ordered  society,  indeed  of  civilization  itself,  that 
would  make  men  slaves  of  the  state  to  the  destruction  of  all  safety,  due 
protection  of  life  and  limb,  and  all  individual  liberty,  that  would  blot 
out  the  Christian  home. 

DANGERS  THREATEN 

All  these  things  are  fundamental  to  this  people  and  to  this  nation. 
Again  I  warn  that  there  are  amongst  us  evil  influences  plotting  and  con- 
spiring to  destroy  all  that  we  hold  sacred  in  our  Church  and  in  the  nation. 
If  we  shall  fall  asleep  to  these  dangers,  we  shall  some  day  awaken 
to  find  ourselves  their  slavish  victims.  We  people  here  in  the  valleys 
are  a  mere  handful — a  microscopic  minority — and  yet  if  we  shall,  with 
completely  united  hearts  and  hands,  put  on  an  armor  of  righteousness 
and  do  battle  for  righteousness,  we  shall  be  the  means  under  God's 
care  and  guidance  of  helping  finally  to  serve  and  save  the  world. 

Nothing  is  more  unrighteous,  more  unholy,  more  un-Godly,  than 
man-declared  mass  slaughter  of  his  fellowman  for  an  unrighteous  cause. 
It  has  brought  down  the  wrath  of  the  Almighty  in  all  times.  God  will 
visit  His  vengeance  upon  all  who  bring  it.  The  law  declared  at  Sinai 
was  "Thou  shalt  not  kill,"  and  in  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane :  "All  they 
that  take  the  sword  shall  perish  with  the  sword."  With  these  divine 
commands  deep-embodied  in  our  spiritual  consciousness,  we  can  look 
with  no  degree  of  allowance  upon  the  sin  of  unholy  war,  and  a  war 
to  make  conquest  or  to  keep  conquest  already  made  is  such  a  war. 

At  almost  every  opportunity  since  I  was  called  to  a  place  in  the 
First  Presidency  I  have  expressed  grave  apprehensions  as  to  the  course 
which  the  whole  world,  including  our  own  nation,  was  following.  Two 
and  a  half  years  ago  (April  Conference,  1937),  I  drew  particular  atten- 
ttion  to  the  prospect  of  war  and  gave  the  best  view  I  had  as  to  the 
eventualities  which  then  seemed  likely  to  follow  that  war.  I  dwelt 
particularly  upon  the  aftermath  of  chaos  which  it  seemed  reasonably 
certain  might  come  if  the  war  dragged  along  over  weary  years. 

Last  October  I  called  attention  to  the  intensive  propaganda  to  which 
we  were  subjected— the  most  intense  peace-time  propaganda  of  all  time — 
and  warned  that  at  best  it  colored  truth  and  at  worst  it  falsified  it. 

I  should  like  by  reference  to  include  in  what  is  said  now  all  that 
I  have  said  in  the  past  on  the  same  matters. 

WARNING  AGAINST  FALSE  IMPRESSIONS 

War  has  now  broken  out.  Most  of  the  sanctities  that  were  used  by 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  .  First  Dag 

the  one  side  or  the  other  to  hallow  the  World  War  are  again  coming 
forth  to  hallow  this  one.  Many  were  false  then ;  they  are  false  now. 
We  should  not  be  disturbed,  misled,  or  blinded  by  any  of  them.  Look 
at  each  of  them  squarely ;  most  of  them  will  wilt  under  your  gaze.  There 
are  always  deceit,  lying,  subterfuge,  treachery,  and  savagery  in  war, 
on  both  sides.  There  was  in  the  World  War.  It  is  not  always  the 
other  power  that  commits  atrocities. 

WAR  AND  ITS  CAUSES 

I  shall  speak  plainly  today,  for  where  the  issue  is  war  with  its 
horrors  or  peace  with  its  blessings,  it  is  best  that  blunt  speech  be  used. 
What  I  shall  say  will  be  directed  primarily  to  the  international  situation. 

Throwing  aside  all  the  arguments,  excuses,  protestations,  preten- 
sions, and  propaganda  under  which  the  real  causes  of  the  present  conflict 
have  been  deeply  buried,  and  stripping  off  right  down  to  the  bare  bones 
all  the  falsehoods  that  have  hidden  the  actual  situation,  it  seems  clear 
that  the  issues  of  the  present  conflict,  reduced  to  their  lowest  terms, 
are  these: 

Germany  said  to  Poland,  Give  me  what  you  took  from  me  at  the 
end  of  the  World  War.  Poland,  backed  by  Britain  and  France,  said  No. 
Germany  made  war  on  Poland.  Treaty-bound  thereto,  Britain  and 
France  declared  war  on  Germany. 

However,  under  similar  demands  in  the  near  past  Germany  has 
possessed  herself  not  only  of  what  she  first  demanded,  but  of  large  areas 
in  addition.  Apparently  mistrusting  the  word  of  the  German  leaders. 
Britain  and  France  seemed  fearful  further  demands  would  be  made. 
They  may  have  had  in  mind  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of  square  miles  of 
territory  and  the  millions  of  people  they  took  by  conquest  from  Germany 
at  the  end  of  the  World  War ;  they  may  also  have  recollected  French 
conquests  in  northern  Africa  and  British  conquests  from  the  Boers 
in  South  Africa.  And  perhaps  we  might  remember  that  the  ground 
on  which  we  stand  was  taken  from  Mexico  in  1848,  by  force  of  arms. 

Perhaps  in  the  present  world  condition,  a  renewed  partition  of 
Poland  seemed  as  likely  a  tragedy  as  could  be  found  to  arouse  the  senti- 
ment of  the  world  against  those  who  should  divide  that  historically 
unhappy  country. 

Obviously,  as  a  matter  of  logic,  if  conquest  can  give  a  good  title 
to  territory,  then  conquest  is  a  legitimate  means  of  getting  good  title 
to  territory.  This  is  the  unholy  rule  of  force,  the  unholy  rule  that  "might 
makes  right." 

This  is  the  rule  that  has  lain  behind  every  great  empire  that  has 
ever  been  built  during  the  whole  history  of  the  world;  it  lies  behind 
every  great  empire  that  exists  today.  There  is  nothing  new  in  the 
doctrine,  neither  in  the  practice. 

Under  such  a  rule,  war  is  and  must  always  be  the  instrument  of  the 
growth  of  empire.  Under  such  a  rule  nations  rise  and  fall,  as  might 
advances  or  wanes. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


13 


Under  such  a  rule,  safety  in  empire  comes  only  to  the  power  which 
is  dominant  in  arms  and  resources. 

But  such  a  rule  of  force,  of  "might  makes  right,"  is  Satan-born. 
It  is  not  of  God. 

Obviously  no  great  empire  of  conquest  can  sleep  quietly  and  com- 
fortably of  nights  if  the  have-nots  swagger  forth  in  search  of  more 
territory  and  are  willing  to  fight  for  it. 

Both  in  its  declarations  and  in  its  joinders  the  present  war  in  Europe 
has  for  its  sole  underlying  purpose  the  secure  establishment  of  the  power 
or  powers  that,  by  sheer  supremacy  in  arms,  shall  dominate  Europe, 
and  perhaps  the  world.  This  is  not  a  righteous  cause  of  war,  and 
unrighteous  war  is  unholy. 

This  is  the  very  issue  that,  twenty  years  ago,  we  alleged  we  sent  our 
young  America  to  Europe  to  settle.  It  was  our  fighting  there  which 
gave  to  the  Principal  Allied  and  Associated  Powers  their  victory.  We 
got  nothing  out  of  the  conflict  but  the  ill-will  of  everyone — of  our 
foes  because  they  were  our  foes,  and  of  each  of  our  allies  because  of 
our  unbounded  generosity,  and  our  naive,  unsophisticated,  unselfishness 
at  Versailles.  But  we  did  not  then  settle  the  issue.  It  has  risen  again. 
We  would  not  settle  it  now  by  joining  in  this  conflict.  This  is  one  of 
those  questions  which  can  be  settled  only  by  the  parties  themselves  by 
themselves. 

A  NATURAL  CHOICE 

There  are  in  the  Church  tens  of  thousands  of  faithful  members,  and 
in  the  nation  millions  of  loyal  citizens,  whose  choice  would  be,  because  of 
their  German  ancestry,  that  Germany  should  become  the  dominant 
power  of  Europe,  and  following  that,  perhaps  of  the  world.  For  them 
German  art,  literature,  science,  music — perhaps  the  greatest  the  world 
has  produced — is  part  of  the  warp  and  woof  of  their  lives  and  of  the 
lives  of  their  ancestors.  All  the  tender  threads  of  memory  and  tradition 
lead  them  back  to  the  homeland.  The  German  people  are  and  have 
been  a  great  and  good  people. 

There  are  perhaps  more  tens  of  thousands  of  faithful  members 
in  the  Church,  and  more  millions  of  loyal  citizens  in  the  nation  who, 
because  of  our  British  ancestry,  would  prefer  that  Great  Britain  should 
retain  the  dominance  she  has  held  for  generations.  As  much  mine  as 
of  any  Britisher  today,  are  Chaucer  and  Shakespeare,  are  Littleton,  Coke, 
and  Bacon,  are  Magna  Charta  and  the  great  principles  of  liberty  and  of 
local  self-government  which  we  of  America  have  made  so  much  and 
peculiarly  our  own.  These  are  the  heritages  which  we  have  from  the 
motherland,  and  in  the  joint  enjoyment  of  which,  as  co-heirs  with  us, 
we  make  all  races,  creeds,  and  nationalities  coming  to  our  shores.  Britain 
has  been  and  is  one  of  the  greatest  nations  and  people  of  all  time. 

As  the  first  love  Germany,  so  we  love  Britain.  But  each  group 
of  us  must  see  and  understand  the  view  and  feelings  of  the  other. 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

America's  position  in  European  affairs 

Who  shall  dominate  Europe  is  a  question  that  has  been  in  our 
international  situation  from  the  beginning  of  our  national  life.  It  is  not 
our  concern. 

The  fathers  of  our  Country  warned  us  against  the  allurements  and 
the  dangers  involved  in  such  a  question — a  question  which  is  relatively 
no  nearer  to  us  now  than  it  was  in  their  day.  The  question  is  of  no 
more  importance  to  us  now  than  it  has  been  for  a  hundred  and  fifty 
years.  The  dominant  power  could  always  make  war  on  us  if  it  wished. 
A  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago  we  were  one  of  the  weakest  of  the  weak, 
and  the  hazards  to  us  of  such  a  war  were  great ;  now  we  are  one  of  the 
strongest  of  the  strong,  and  the  hazards  of  our  losing  a  defensive  conflict 
almost  nil.  Do  not  let  fear  of  what  might  happen  in  such  a  defensive 
war  cloud  in  any  way  your  judgment.  We  are  relatively  better  able  to 
defend  ourselves  today  against  aggression  by  a  foreign  foe  than  we  have 
ever  been  before  in  our  whole  history. 

Washington  in  his  Farewell  Address  declared  we  should  have 
"as  little  political  connection  as  possible"  with  Europe;  that  Europe 
had  a  "set  of  primary  interests"  with  which  we  had  "none  or  a  very 
remote  relation,"  wherefore,  "Europe  must  be  engaged  in  frequent  con- 
troversies, the  causes  of  which  are  essentially  foreign  concern" ;  "Why, 
by  interweaving  our  destiny  with  that  of  any  part  of  Europe,  entangle 
our  peace  and  prosperity  in  the  toils  of  European  ambition,  rivalship, 
interest,  humor,  or  caprice?" 

Jefferson  said:  "Our  first  and  fundamental  maxim  should  be  never 
to  entangle  ourselves  in  the  broils  of  Europe;  our  second,  never  to 
suffer  Europe  to  intermeddle  with  cis-Atlantic  affairs." 

We  should  follow  these  admonitions.  There  is  neither  reason  nor 
excuse  for  our  entry  into  this  European  war.  Its  issues  have  for  us  no 
vital  interest.   Wise  statesmanship  will  keep  us  from  that  war. 

neutrality  violations 

We  may  expect  that  every  means,  both  fair  and  foul,  which  can 
be  devised  by  hating,  desperate  men,  fighting  for  their  lives,  will  be 
used  to  drag  us  into  this  war.  We  must  not  accept  anything  at  its  face 
value;  we  must  question  every  statement,  carefully  examine  every  inci- 
dent.  Such  is  war. 

Rarely  indeed  are  mere  violations  of  neutrality  legitimate  cause 
for  war.  Always  there  is  conflict  between  neutrals  and  belligerents, 
the  neutrals  trying  to  preserve  their  peace-time  trade  and  commerce,  and 
each  belligerent  trying  to  prevent  all  intercourse  with  the  other  belligerent. 
Seizure  and  search  of  vessels,  confiscation  of  cargoes,  are  the  normal 
incidents  of  war.  After  the  war  is  over,  the  belligerent  is  called  upon  to 
pay  for  the  infractions  of  neutral  rights,  but  war  is  not  resorted  to  even 
to  compel  these  payments. 

One  thing  more,  an  armed  vessel,  whether  it  be  a  merchant-man  or 
a  regular  battleship,  is  considered  to  be  a  vessel  of  war  and  subject 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


15 


to  all  the  hazards  of  war.  Neutrals  using  such  vessels  either  for  travel 
or  for  cargo  purposes  use  them  subject  to  all  the  dangers  incident  to 
the  navigation  of  vessels  of  war  on  the  high  seas,  and  neither  they 
nor  their  government  can  legitimately  complain  of  the  eventualities  which 
may  overtake  them. 

AMERICA  THE  GREAT  NEUTRAL 

America,  multi-raced  and  multi-nationed,  is  by  tradition,  by  ge- 
ography, by  citizenry,  by  natural  sympathy,  and  by  material  interest, 
the  great  neutral  nation  of  the  earth.  God  has  so  designed  it.  Drawn 
from  all  races,  creeds,  and  nations,  our  sympathies  run  to  every  op- 
pressed people.  Our  feelings  engaged  on  opposite  sides  of  great  dif- 
ferences, will  in  their  natural  course,  if  held  in  due  and  proper  restraint, 
neutralize  the  one  the  other.  Directed  in  right  channels,  this  great  body 
of  feeling  for  the  one  side  or  the  other  will  ripen  into  sympathy  and 
love  for  all  our  misguided  and  misled  fellowmen  who  suffer  in  any  cause, 
and  this  sympathy  and  love  will  run  out  to  all  humanity  in  its  woe,  thus 
weakly  shadowing  the  infinite  compassion  of  the  Master. 

One  of  the  great  tragedies  of  the  war  now  starting  is  that  every 
people  now  engaged  in  it  have  been  led  into  it  without  their  fully  knowing 
just  where  they  were  bound.  The  people  themselves  are  largely  innocent 
of  this  slaughter.  God  will  not  forgive  betrayal  of  his  children  by  those 
who  rule  over  them. 

A  GREAT  PART  TO  PLAY 

As  the  great  neutral  of  the  earth,  America  may  play  a  far  greater 
part  in  this  war,  it  is  our  duty  to  play  a  far  greater  part,  than  merely 
impartially  to  carry  out  our  neutral  obligations  under  international  law 
towards  those  who  come  to  our  shores  for  trade  and  commerce  or  other- 
wise. It  is  our  solemn  duty  to  play  a  better  part  than  we  can  do  by 
participating  in  the  butchery. 

America  has  today  the  only  great  national  moral  force  and  influence 
for  peace  left  in  the  world.  We  have  lost  much  of  what  we  once  had — • 
we  lost  it  when  we  permitted  the  looting  at  the  Versailles  peace  table ; 
we  have  since  then  lost  much  of  what  then  remained  by  our  diplomacy 
in  the  conflict  between  the  rival  war  lords  of  the  Far  East  and  by  our 
scolding  protests  to  Europe — protests  largely  motivated  by  matters  of 
their  purely  domestic  policy  which  were  not  of  our  legal  and  proper 
concern,  matters  which  we  have  never  in  our  own  American  affairs 
permitted  any  other  nation  even  to  question. 

FREEDOM  IN  DOMESTIC  POLICY 

We  of  this  Church  are  qualified  expert  witnesses  on  this  question. 
Twice  driven  from  our  homes,  plundered,  robbed,  murdered,  our  leaders 
slain,  no  foreign  power,  and  no  race,  creed,  or  group  raised  their  voices 
even  to  whisper  in  protest  against  our  treatment.    Nor  was  this  silense. 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Dag 

broken,  when,  nearly  a  half  century  later,  the  Federal  Government 
itself  confiscated  our  property,  which  we  only  partially  recovered.  We 
never  dreamed  of  asking  foreign  governments  to  intervene  in  our 
behalf.  Our  patriotic  loyalty  to  the  country  of  our  birth,  our  native 
land,  would  not  allow  this. 

Furthermore,  when  the  North  was  arrayed  against  the  South  in  a 
struggle  of  life  and  death,  when  property  on  both  sides  was  ruthlessly 
destroyed,  and  thousands  upon  thousands  of  lives  were  lost,  we  refused 
even  to  listen  to  representations  by  alien  powers,  designed  to  put  an  end 
to  the  conflict.  Nor  have  we  ever  tolerated  complaints  from  foreign 
governments  about  certain  miscarriages  of  justice  heretofore  all  too 
frequent  in  certain  areas  of  this  country. 

All  of  these  matters  were  between  us — the  people  concerned — and 
our  own  government.  We  lived  or  we  died,  we  prospered  or  suffered,  as 
determined  between  us  and  our  government.  The  Family  of  Nations 
cannot  exist  on  any  other  principle  than  their  freedom  in  all  matters 
of  domestic  policy,  nor  can  individual  States ;  and  the  existence  of  States 
for  the  due  ordering  of  all  society  is  of  far  more  importance  than  the 
temporary  suffering  of  any  group,  large  or  small,  within  a  State.  Every 
State,  member  of  the  Family  of  Nations,  must  be  its  own  master  as  to 
its  own  nationals.  We  have  always  claimed  this  right  unqualified  for 
ourselves. 

Our  plain  duty  to  humanity  and  to  the  cause  of  peace,  our  duty 
to  our  Creator,  require  that  we  preserve  the  moral  force  and  influence 
we  now  have,  that  we  regain  what  we  have  lost,  and  that  then  we  increase 
to  the  highest  possible  point  this  greatest  of  all  instrumentalities  for 
world  peace.  If  we  become  parties  to  this  world  war,  on  whatever 
side,  to  determine  the  present  issues  of  the  war,  we  shall  lose  all  this 
moral  power  and  influence,  and  sink  with  the  world  to  the  level  where 
just  our  brute  might  shall  be  the  sole  and  only  measure  of  our  strength. 
This  would  be  an  appalling  prostitution  of  our  heritage. 

Remembering  the  fact  that  the  warring  peoples  have  been  led  almost 
blindly  into  this  war  by  their  governments,  two  things  it  would  seem  we 
might  now  do  that  would  at  once  build  up  our  moral  power  and  influence 
for  peace. 

THE  PROTECTION  OF  THE  WEAK 

First,  we  might  well  insist,  as  the  President  has  already  urged,  that 
all  the  belligerents  give  up  and  abandon  the  plans  of  their  general  staffs, 
so  to  wage  this  war  as  actually  to  exterminate  peoples.  We  should 
require  under  penalty  of  the  closure  of  our  ports  to  the  offender, 
that  the  principle  obtaining  prior  to  the  World  War  should  be  observed, 
namely  that  the  civilian  population,  the  women  and  children,  the  sick, 
the  aged,  and  the  infirm,  of  the  warring  nations  shall,  so  far  as  possible, 
be  protected ;  that  indiscriminate  bombing  and  the  bombing  of  unfortified 
places  shall  not  be  engaged  in ;  that  actual  hostilities  shall  be  waged  only 
against  and  between  the  armed  forces  of  the  belligerents.  Should  any 
belligerent  not  have  access  to  our  ports  and  be  therefore  not  subject  to 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


17 


the  penalty,  nevertheless  the  observance  of  the  principle  by  his  foe  at 
our  behest  will  give  us  the  moral  power  to  secure  this  foe's  observance. 

Second,  having  in  mind  our  position  as  the  great  world  neutral,  and 
remembering  that  the  peoples  of  these  warring  nations  have  been  led  into 
this  conflict  largely  unwittingly,  and  therefore  are  largely  blameless,  we 
should  announce  our  unalterable  opposition  to  any  plan  to  starve  these 
innocent  peoples  involved  in  this  conflict — the  women,  the  children, 
the  sick,  the  aged,  and  the  infirm — and  declare  that  when  actual  and 
bonafide  mass  starvation  shall  come  to  any  of  them,  no  matter  who  they 
are,  we  shall  do  all  that  we  properly  may  do  to  see  that  they  are  fur- 
nished with  food.  On  the  present  outlook  one  cannot  be  sure  which  side 
will  finally  need  this  sort  of  relief.  And  if  in  such  an  effort  we  should 
come  to  the  last  extremity,  one  can  think  of  few  more  righteous  causes 
for  war  itself  than  such  a  high  service  to  victimized,  suffering  humanity. 

We  shall,  if  we  act  wisely  on  the  full  information  we  can  obtain,  be 
able  to  forestall  any  deceit  or  subterfuge  on  any  account  or  on  any  ground 
by  any  belligerent  because  of  a  false  or  simulated  or  self-inflicted  star- 
vation. 

If  we  shall  rebuild  our  lost  moral  power  and  influence  by  measures 
such  as  these  which  will  demonstrate  our  love  for  humanity,  our  justice, 
our  fair-mindedness,  our  determination  to  do  works  of  righteousness  as 
God  shall  make  them  known  to  us,  we  shall  then  be  where  at  a  fitting 
and  promising  time  we  can  offer  mediation  between  the  two  belligerents, 
and  bringing  our  moral  power  and  influence  into  action  we  shall  have 
a  fair  chance  to  bring  an  end  to  the  criminal  slaughter  of  our  fellowmen 
and  to  give  birth  to  a  peace  that  shall  be  lasting,  because  just  and  fair 
to  every  people.  Surely  this  is  infinitely  more  honorable,  will  have  in  it 
infinitely  more  of  humanity,  will  be  infinitely  nearer  to  the  Master's  way, 
than  sending  our  young  sons  overseas  to  be  murdered. 

America,  the  great  neutral,  will  thus  become  the  Peacemaker  of 
the  world,  which  is  her  manifest  destiny  if  she  live  the  law  of  peace. 
Believing  as  we  do  that  America  is  Zion,  we  shall  then  see  the  beginning 
of  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophecy  of  Isaiah  of  old  "for  out  of  Zion  shall 
go  forth  the  law,"  a  law  of  justice,  mercy,  and  righteousness,  adopted 
by  the  nations  of  their  own  free  will. 

PLAGUES  WHICH  FOLLOW  WAR 

One  more  thought  and  I  have  finished.  Remembering  that  through- 
out all  history,  dread  diseases  have  followed  the  devastation  of  war,  when 
peoples  are  exhausted  and  mal-nurtured,  remembering  what  happened 
at  the  end  of  the  World  War  with  the  flu,  reason  tells  us  that  if  this 
war  drags  through  years,  we  must  be  prepared  for  a  visitation  of  plagues 
that  will  almost  surely  take  a  greater  human  toll  than  the  war  itself. 
These  plagues  will  strike  armies  not  only,  but  the  people  back  home  as 
well.  They  will  reach  America.  How  much  science  can  do,  we  have 
yet  to  learn.  It  tardily  coped  at  all  with  the  flu.  We  have  but  one 
sure  means  toward  safety  from  such  plagues — a  life  lived  in  accordance 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

with  the  revelations  of  the  Lord.  Careful  eating,  temperance,  chastity, 
the  non-use  of  things  forbidden,  sobriety,  industry,  proper  rest  and 
sleep,  non-exposure,  and  in  general  right  living  in  all  things,  give  us 
the  right  to  ask  the  Lord  that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass  us  by. 
He  who  breaks  down  his  body  and  his  resistance  to  disease  by  riotous 
and  wicked  living  may  hardly  hope  to  escape  affliction  and  suffering. 
It  may  be  that  we  shall  see  a  time,  if  this  war  shall  drag  into  the  years, 
that  "except  those  days  should  be  shortened,  there  should  no  flesh  be 
saved:  but  for  the  elect's  sake  those  days  shall  be  shortened."  (Matt. 
24:22.) 

May  God  bless  and  preserve  this  nation,  set  up  in  accordance  with 
his  plan  and  will ;  may  he  keep  us  from  the  horrors  and  ravages  of  war. 
May  he  help  us  all  so  to  live  that  we  may  with  clear  consciences  always 
seek  his  blessings,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  the  Savior,  Amen. 


The  Singing  Mothers  sang  "God  Bless  America,"  (Irving  Berlin). 
Soprano  solo  by  Sister  Emma  Lucy  Gates  Bowen. 

ELDER   CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

With  all  my  heart  I  endorse  the  principles  laid  down  by  President 
Clark  in  his  splendid  statesmanlike  address. 

What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mindful  of  him?  and  the  son  of  man,  that 
thou  visitest  him?    (Psalms  8:4.) 

DESIRE  FOR  IMMORTALITY  NATURAL 

The  divinity  in  man  makes  him  desire  and  long  for  immortality. 

Benjamin  Franklin  was  one  of  America's  greatest  men  and  one  of 
the  world's  most  versatile  geniuses.  He  believed  in  the  resurrection 
The  epitaph  which  he  composed  to  be  placed  on  his  grave  was  as  follows : 

Like  the  cover  of  an  old  book, 

Its  contents  torn  out 

And  stripped  of  its  lettering  and  gilding, 

Lies  here  food  for  worms. 

But  the  work  shall  not  be  lost, 

For  it  will — as  he  believes — appear  once  more 

In  a  new  and  more  elegant  edition, 

Revised  and  corrected  by  the  Author. 

For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  blessed  is  he  that  keepeth  my  command- 
ments, whether  in  life  or  in  death.  (Doc.  &  Cov.  58:2.) 

In  the  wonderful  and  heavenly  philosophy  of  the  Mormon  religion, 
heaven  and  earth  meet.  This  life  merges  into  the  life  beyond.  All  is 
eternity  with  God.  There  is  a  land  of  life  beyond  the  grave;  we  call 
it  the  intermediate  state,  the  spirit  world.  It  is  a  scene  of  life,  a, 
community, 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


19 


HEAVENLY  MESSENGERS  BEAR  WITNESS  OF  ANOTHER  WORLD 

According  to  the  holy  scriptures  there  is  an  invisible  world  whose 
inhabitants  may  become  visible,  not  to  gratify  the  curiosity  of  men,  but 
as  messengers  of  the  Lord  to  declare  his  word  to  his  chdsen  vessels. 

Moses,  Peter,  James  and  John,  also  John  the  Baptist,  appeared 
unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  by  the  word  of  God's  command,  with 
messages  essential  to  the  salvation  of  the  children  of  men.  There  is  a 
permanent  personality  here  and  hereafter,  a  continued  and  active  exist- 
ence of  the  inhabitants  in  that  "mysterious  country."  Joseph  Smith 
spoke  the  truth  when  he  said  "there  are  no  angels  who  minister  to  this 
earth  but  those  who  do  belong  or  have  belonged  to  it." 

We  see  but  half  the  causes  of  our  deeds, 
Seeking  them  wholly  in  the  outer  life, 
And  heedless  of  the  encircling  spirit  world, 
Which  though  unseen  is  felt  and  sows  in  us 
All  germs  of  pure  and  world-wide  purpose. 

A  school-boy's  faith 

A  noted  lawyer  from  Alabama  visited  Salt  Lake  City  a  few  years 
ago.  In  the  course  of  an  address,  made  to  a  graduating  class  in  his 
home  state  he  eulogized  the  idealism  of  the  Mormon  people  and  par- 
ticularly their  remarkable  idealism  and  views  concerning  the  other  world. 
"I  heard  the  story,"  he  said,  "of  a  Mormon  school  boy  who  had  lost  his 
blind  father,  to  whom  he  was  deeply  devoted.  The  boy  was  a  pitcher 
on  his  High  School  baseball  team,  and  the  father  had  always  gone  with 
the  boy  to  the  games,  although  unable  to  share  in  the  sport  except  by 
what  he  heard.  Justifiable  delight  filled  the  blind  father's  heart  as  his 
son  was  pitching,  when  the  umpire  called  'three  strikes  and  out.' 

"The  father  died.  The  day  after  the  father's  funeral  had  been  set 
for  a  match  game  with  another  High  School,  and  to  the  surprise  of  all 
the  boy  expressed  a  desire  to  pitch  the  game. 

"He  pitched  better  than  he  had  ever  pitched  before,  and  his  team 
won.  When  his  friends  crowded  about  him  to  congratulate  him  he  said, 
'Yes,  it  was  the  first  game  father  ever  saw  me  pitch,  and  I  did  my  best  for 
him.' " 

THE  BROTHER  OF  JARED's  EXPERIENCE 

What  is  the  form  of  the  spirit  ?  The  brother  of  Jared  saw  the  pre- 
existent  spirit  of  the  Lord  Jesus ;  he  saw  the  finger  of  the  Lord  and  it 
was  as  the  finger  of  a  man  like  unto  flesh  and  blood.  The  fear-stricken 
man  said,  "I  knew  not  that  the  Lord  had  flesh  and  blood."  The  Lord 
showed  himself  unto  him  and  said: 

Behold,  this  body,  which  ye  now  behold,  is  the  body  of  my  spirit ;  and 
man  have  I  created  after  the  body  of  my  spirit;  and  even  as  I  appear 
unto  thee  to  be  in  the  spirit  will  I  appear  unto  my  people  in  the  flesh. 
(Ether  3:16.) 

What  a  wonderful  contribution  this  is  to  the  divine  authenticity  of 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

the  book  of  Genesis,  wherein  we  are  told :  "So  God  created  man  in  his 
own  image,  in  the  image  of  God  created  he  him ;  male  and  female  created 
he  them."   The  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  witness  to  the  truth  of  the  Bible. 

We  believe  that  there  is  consciousness  of  the  spirit  in  the  life  here- 
after, between  death  and  the  resurrection.  Men  live  and  move  and  have 
their  being  in  the  intermediate  state.  They  pray,  talk,  hope,  and  work 
not  only  for  themselves  but  also  for  those  who  are  upon  the  earth. 
Death  does  not  congeal  the  lips  of  those  who  go  before  us ;  they  are  not 
far  from  us  and  they  help  us  more  than  we  know. 

EXPERIENCES  WITH  THE  DYING 

In  the  course  of  a  somewhat  lengthy  ministry  I  have  been  with 
some  who  were  crossing  the  threshold  into  eternity.  For  example,  a 
young  girl  was  called  to  the  world  beyond.  Just  before  she  passed  away 
her  face  gleamed  with  glad  recognition  and  she  said,  "Oh  mother,  dear 
mother !"  The  mother  had  gone  on  years  before.  Fresh  in  my  memory 
are  instances  of  business  men,  who,  when  their  end  was  approaching, 
have  heard  voices  which  mortals  could  not  hear.  They  have  seen  faces 
not  of  this  earth  for  these  men  have  said :  "Mother,  my  son,  they  are 
with  me."    Then  they  have  departed  with  a  smile  upon  their  faces. 

John  saw  under  the  altar  the  souls  of  those  who  were  slain  for  the 
testimony  of  Jesus.  "And  they  cried  with  a  loud  voice,  saying,  How  long 
O  Lord,  holy  and  true,  dost  thou  not  judge  and  avenge  our  blood  on 
those  that  dwell  on  the  earth."  (Rev.  6.)  And  they  were  told  they  should 
rest  for  a  little  season.  These  spirits  had  power  to  reflect,  anticipate, 
speak  and  think. 

I  have  been  with  Elders  who  died  in  the  discharge  of  their  duty,  and 
a  moment  or  two  before  they  departed  this  life  their  faces  have  been 
overspread  with  a  gleam  of  recognition  of  beings  not  of  this  world ; 
they  have  uttered  the  names  of  loved  ones  long  since  gone  and  then 
have  gently  gone  to  their  rest. 

In  the  16th  chapter  of  St.  Luke  we-read  of  a  certain  rich  man  in 
hell  and  in  torments.  When  he  made  a  certain  request,  Abraham  said : 
"Son,  remember."  Dr.  Lyman  Abbott  said  that  those  are  two  of  the 
most  awful  words  in  scripture.  The  rich  man's  recollection  extended 
back  to  mortality  and  covered  the  whole  period  of  his  mortal  life. 
The  wrongs  that  he  did  lived  in  his  memory ;  that  was  his  punishment. 

KNOWLEDGE  GAINED  TO  CONTINUE  AFTER  DEATH 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said :  "Whatever  principle  of  intelligence 
we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will  rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection.  And  if  a 
person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life  through  his 
diligence  and  obedience  than  another  he  will  have  so  much  the  advantage 
in  the  world  to  come."  What  knowledge?  The  pure  knowledge  that 
greatly  enlarges  the  soul,  that  makes  us  more  like  God  by  giving  more 
understanding  of  his  glorious  purposes.  What  a  noble  incentive  and 
stimulus  to  educators  and  also  to  laymen  to  gain  all  the  knowledge  they 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


21 


can  in  this  life,  for  we  shall  always  exist  as  independent,  permanent 
personalities  learning  forever. 

The  works  of  Gods  continue, 
And  worlds  and  lives  abound; 
Improvement  and  progression 
Hath  pne  eternal  round. 

Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe  quotes  the  following  verse  composed  by  a 
minister : 

We  serve  no  God  whose  work  is  done, 
Who  rests  amidst  his  firmament. 
Our  God,  his  labors  but  begun, 
Toils  evermore  with  powers  unspent. 

Jesus  says,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon:  "For  my  work  is  not  yet 
finished ;  neither  shall  it  be  until  the  end  of  man,  neither  from  that  time 
henceforth  and  forever."  As  we  all  know  his  work  and  his  glory  is 
"to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man." 

Cecil  Rhodes,  the  great  English  statesman,  lay  dying  at  the  early 
age  of  forty-nine.  He  had  nobly  worked  in  the  spirit  of  achievement. 
To  his  friend  Jameson,  by  his  bedside,  he  said :  "Jameson,  the  great 
trouble  with  life  is  that  it  is  too  short.  You  no  sooner  become  acquainted 
with  the  game  and  learn  how  to  play  it,  than  you  have  to  give  it  up." 

The  British  empire  builder  did  not  have  the  vision,  the  knowledge 
of  the  beautiful  philosophy  of  the  Gospel  concerning  the  life  hereafter, 
particularly  of  eternal  progression,  for  in  that  life  the  great  intellects, 
scholars,  painters,  engineers  and  others  shall  go  on  progressing  and 
working  for  the  benefit  of  their  fellow  creatures  on  the  earth  or  wherever 
the  sons  and  daughters  of  God  are  found.  He  who  stops  learning  and 
working  is  neither  wise  nor  happy. 

One  thing  that  menaces  this  country  is  the  growing  disinclination 
to  perform  manual  labor.  Too  many  want  to  pick  their  jobs.  It  is  a 
threat  to  our  permanent  stability  and  prosperity.  Henry  Ward  Beecher 
once  said  that  the  darkest  hour  in  a  young  man's  life  was  when  he  tried 
to  devise  a  way  to  make  a  livelihood  without  working. 

"There  is  more  of  heaven  to  be  seen  in  the  sweat-bedewed  face  of 
the  faithful  toiler"  working  for  his  family  than  in  any  canvas  with  its 
clouds  of  cherubs,  painted  by  the  masters,  in  the  art  galleries  of  the 
world. 

Elijah's  mission 

We  believe  in  the  doctrine  of  salvation  for  the  dead.    Elijah  came 
from  that  invisible  world  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  fulfillment 
of  the  glorious  promise,  to  which,  however,  is  attached  a  solemn  warning 
jn  Malachi  4 :5,  6 : 

Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord: 

And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the 
heart  of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I  come  and  smite  the  earth 
with  a  curse. 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Das 

Elijah  feared  God  but  he  knew  no  other  fear.  His  dominating 
and  persistent  personality  was  a  power  in  the  period  in  which  he  lived ; 
it  is  a  powerful  influence  in  the  present  dispensation.  The  wonderful 
truth  he  revealed  is  sufficient  proof  that  there  is  consciousness  beyond 
the  grave. 

For  Christ  also  hath  once  suffered  for  sins,  the  just  for  the  unjust, 
that  he  might  bring  us  to  God,  being  put  to  death  in  the  flesh,  but  quickened 
by  the  Spirit: 

By  which  also  he  went  and  preached  unto  the  spirits  in  prison; 
Which  sometime  were  disobedient,  when  once  the  long  suffering  of 
God  waited  in  the  days  of  Noah.  (I  Peter  3:18-20.) 

In  the  following  chapter  are  these  comforting  words : 

For  this  cause  was  the  gospel  preached  also  to  them  that  are  dead, 
that  they  might  be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  according 
to  God  in  the  spirit. 

In  the  spirit  world,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  brethren 
are  preaching  those  glorious  principles,  faith,  repentance,  baptism,  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  truth  of  the  Bible,  the  truth  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  And  we  here  will  preach  the  same  Gospel  until  every  knee 
shall  bend  and  every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  This  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  my  Redeemer,  Amen. 

ELDER   LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

This  is  not  the  first  time  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  succeeding 
President  Charles  A.  Callis,  but  I  am  as  proud  of  the  opoprtunity  to 
follow  him  today  as  I  was  to  succeed  him  in  the  Southern  States  Mission. 

As  a  member  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  when  we  were  set  apart 
to  preside  over  the  temporal  affairs  of  the  Church,  I  thought  that  must 
be  a  tremendous  responsibility;  but  when  we  were  appointed  and  set 
apart  to  preside  over  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  of  the  Church,  I  realized 
that  that  indeed  was  a  responsibility. 

During  the  last  six  months  we  have  visited  most  of  the  Stakes  of 
Zion,  and  have  met  with  the  stake  and  ward  officers,  discussing  matters 
pertaining  to  the  Youth  Program,  Budget  System,  and  other  things 
which  we  felt  would  lead  to  finer  standards  among  our  young  people. 

AN  INCREASE  OF  FAITH  NEEDED 

While  I  have  always  been  impressed  with  what  a  marvelous  work 
the  Church  is  doing,  I  believe  that  if  there  is  one  thing  that  we  need 
in  the  Church  today  more  than  any  other,  it  is  increased  faith  in  the 
hearts  of  our  boys  and  our  girls  in  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel,  in  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  in  the  fact  that  God 
lives,  that  every  boy  and  girl  will  answer  to  him  for  their  lives.  It  was 
Paul  who  said:  "But  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to  please  him,  for 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


23 


he  that  cometh  to  God  must  believe  that  he  is,  and  that  he  is  a  rewarder 
of  them  that  diligently  seek  him." 

I  believe  that  unless  this  faith  is  planted  in  the  hearts  of  our  boys 
and  girls  they  will  not  be  able  to  meet  the  temptations  of  the  day  and 
come  out  gloriously  victorious,  true  to  the  faith,  and  true  to  the  standards 
of  this  Church.  We  have  felt  that  education  might  achieve  this  end. 
We  now  have  compulsory  education  of  our  youth,  and  yet  today  there 
seems  to  be  more  immorality,  more  use  of  liquor,  more  use  of  the  things 
which  God  has  forbidden,  than  in  any  other  day. 

It  seems  to  me  that  in  our  Church  we  must  be  able  to  plant  in  the 
hearts  of  our  boys  and  girls  a  faith  in  the  promises  of  God,  that  if  they 
will  shun  these  things,  they  will  receive  of  his  blessings.  Think  of 
the  promise  given  to  those  who  will  observe  and  keep  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom! Surely  every  father  and  every  mother  and  every  teacher  in 
Israel  should  want  these  promises  to  become  real  in  the  lives  of  their 
boy  and  girls:  to  run  and  not  be  weary;  to  walk  and  not  faint;  that 
the  destroying  angel  might  pass  by  and  not  slay  them,  as  he  did  the 
children  of  Israel;  and  that  they  might  receive  knowledge,  yea,  even 
hidden  treasures  of  knowledge.  This  is  what  I  would  like  to  have 
come  into  the  lives  of  my  children. 

I  realize  that  in  the  achievement  of  this  great  end  we  have  a 
great  responsibility  as  parents,  in  the  home  and  as  officers  in  the  Church, 
for  the  Lord  has  placed  in  the  Church  officers  for  this  purpose.  He  has 
given  us  apostles  and  prophets  and  pastors  and  teachers,  "for  the 
perfecting  of  the  saints,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying 
of  the  body  of  Christ  *  *  *  *  that  we  henceforth  be  no  more  children 
tossed  to  and  fro,  and  carried  about  with  every  wind  of  doctrine, by  the 
sleight  of  men,  and  cunning  craftiness,  whereby  they  lie  in  wait  to 
deceive." 

A  LACK  OF  FAITH  AMONG  YOUTH  OF  THE  CHURCH  BRINGS  REPROACH 

It  would  be  a  terrible  thing,  if,  as  our  boys  and  girls  come  out  of 
Latter-day  Saint  homes,  they  come  with  their  faith  destroyed,  with  lack 
of  confidence  in  the  leaders  of  this  great  Church,  lack  of  faith  in  the 
divine  and  holy  principles  that  God  has  established  in  the  Church  in  these 
latter  days ;  and  it  would  be  a  great  reproach  upon  us  if  our  boys  and 
girls  come  out  of  our  auxiliary  organizations,  our  Priesthood  quorums, 
our  Church  schools  or  seminaries,  with  lack  of  faith  in  these  great  eternal 
truths. 

During  my  travels  I  learned  of  a  few  instances  where  our  young 
people  had  been  taken  out  of  our  institutions  because  the  parents  felt 
that  their  faith  was  being  destroyed,  rather  than  strengthened ;  and  I 
think  that  this  is  a  reproach. 

God  has  placed  this  great  army  of  officers  in  the  Church  as  watchmen 
upon  the  towers  of  Israel,  and  I  believe  the  Lord  expects  the  presidents 
of  stakes  and  the  bishops  of  wards  to  know  that  there  is  nothing  being 
taught  that  will  destroy  the  faith  of  their  boys  and  their  girls.  I  might 
be  just  a  little  specific.  I  met  a  young  lady  who  told  me  of  what  she  had 
been  taught  in  one  of  our  institutions.    She  was  told  that  patriarchal 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

blessings  were  not  really  to  tell  us  what  the  Lord  had  in  store  for  us,  but 
they  were  beautiful  thoughts  that  might  encourage  us  to  try  to  live  better 
lives.  Now,  if  that  were  true,  it  would  be  all  right ;  but  as  far  as  I  am 
concerned,  it  just  is  not  true.  If  it  be  true,  then  I  think  one  of  two  things 
must  be  acknowledged:  that  God  has  withdrawn  his  spirit  from  this 
Church,  or  that  we  have  no  need  of  patriarchs  in  the  Church. 

VALUE  OF  PATRIARCHAL  BLESSINGS 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  patriarchal  blessings  given  upon  the 
heads  of  the  sons  of  Israel  of  old,  when  their  father  Jacob,  the  Patriarch, 
said :  "Gather  yourselves  together,  that  I  may  tell  you  that  which  shall 
befall  you  in  the  last  days."  One  of  the  great  fundamental  truths  of 
Mormonism  is  based  upon  the  promise  made  upon  the  head  of  Joseph, 
when  he  was  promised  a  new  land  in  the  utmost  bounds  of  the  ever- 
lasting hills,  for  his  blessings  should  exceed  the  blessings  of  his  pro- 
genitors. 

I  was  privileged  to  be  raised  in  the  home  of  a  patriarch.  Today, 
my  father  is  the  acting  Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church,  and  it 
might  be  more  appropriate  that  he  should  speak  on  this  subject  than 
that  I  should ;  but  I  received  my  first  blessing  at  his  hands'when  I  was 
eight  years  old,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  all  the  philosophizing  in 
this  world  could  not  make  me  believe  that  my  father  knew  what  he 
pronounced  upon  my  head  of  his  own  knowledge  and  his  own  under- 
standing. That  blessing  has  been  a  guide  to  me  all  my  life,  and  I  thank 
God  that  I  received  it  when  I  was  a  boy  eight  years  of  age. 

FAITH -PROMOTING  INCIDENTS 

While  working  in  the  field  with  my  father  when  I  was  a  mere 
lad,  I  received  one  of  the  greatest  testimonies  that  ever  came  to  me,  and 
that  through  the  giving  of  a  patriarchal  blessing.  My  father  related 
to  us  three  boys,  who  were  engaged  with  him  in  filling  up  an  old  cellar, 
a  visit  he  had  made  the  night  before  to  administer  a  patriarchal  blessing, 
and  after  he  had  taken  his  hands  from  the  head  of  the  brother  blessed, 
some  disappointment  was  expressed  that  Father  had  not  promised  him 
that  he  should  get  well  and  live,  because  he  was  very  sick.  Father 
related  this  experience  to  us,  and  if  there  had  been  no  inspiration  in  this 
Church,  and  no  inspiration  in  the  calling  of  a  patriarch,  where  would  the 
faith  of  his  boys  be  today  ?  He  said  when  he  placed  his  hands  upon  the 
head  of  this  brother,  something  seemed  to  say  to  him  that  he  should  not 
give  him  too  good  a  blessing  for  this  life,  for  his  days  were  numbered. 
So  he  promised  hiin  the  blessing  of  eternal  life  for  his  faithfulness,  and 
then  disappointment  was  expressed,  and  the  voice  of  inspiration  came 
again,  and  he  said :  "If  I  am  inspired  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  Brother 
So-and-so  will  not  live  more  than  so  many  hours,"  and  he  told  us  the  time. 

While  we  were  still  working  together  a  good  brother  passed  along 
the  old  hedge  fence.  Father  called  to  him  and  asked  if  he  knew  how 
Brother  So-and-so  was.    He  said  he  had  passed  away.    Father  asked 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


25 


the  hour  and  he  told  us.  Then  Father  looked  at  us,  because  it  was  the 
exact  time  he  had  told  us. 

When  I  was  called  on  my  first  mission  I  walked  into  the  office  of 
Brother  George  Reynolds  on  crutches,  with  my  leg  in  a  plaster  cast. 
He  said:  "What  are  you  here  for?"  I  said:  "I  am  here  to  answer  a  call 
for  a  mission."  He  said :  "It  looks  to  me  like  you  had  better  go  home 
and  take  care  of  yourself."  I  said :  "I  will  be  ready  to  go  at  the  appointed 
date."  He  said:  "When  do  you  want  to  go?"  I  said:  "In  April,  with 
my  other  friends."   That  was  February. 

I  went  out  to  Tooele,  where  my  father  lived,  a  patriarch  of  God. 
I  told  him  I  wanted  a  blessing  so  I  could  go  on  that  mission,  and  my 
father  promised  me  that  I  should  go  and  that  I  should  not  be  handicapped 
because  of  lameness — and  I  never  lost  a  day's  work.  I  threw  my  crutches 
away  a  few  days  before  it  was  time  to  leave,  and  I  went  on  that  mission. 

Now,  here  a  few  years  ago,  seven  years  ago  to  be  exact,  my  wife 
and  I  laid  away  in  the  grave  our  oldest  son,  who  was  nearly  sixteen 
years  of  age — the  greatest  sorrow  that  has  ever  come  into  our  lives. 
We  had  four  daughters  before  he  was  born.  Less  than  a  year  prior 
to  that  we  took  him  and  his  younger  brother,  only  sixteen  months  differ- 
ence in  their  ages,  into  the  office  of  the  Patriarch  of  this  Church,  Brother 
Hyrum  G.  Smith,  and  he  gave  them  each  a  blessing. 

Now,  I  ask  you,  suppose  the  Patriarch  had  known  that  one  of 
these  boys  was  to  die  within  a  year,  could  he  not  promise  him  anything  ? 
What  would  it  have  meant  to  the  eldest  son,  had  he  walked  out  of  the 
Patriarch's  office  with  no  promise  and  no  blessing,  and  the  younger  son 
had  all  the  promises  and  the  blessings,  for  the  older  boy  truly  loved 
God  and  kept  his  commandments.  When  that  boy  passed  away,  and  I 
met  with  my  counselors — for  I  was  then  President  of  the  Hollywood 
Stake — I  said  to  them :  "There  is  just  one  thing,  if  God  could  only  give 
us  to  understand  that  boy's  blessing."  I  said:  "I  wish  you  brethren 
would  help  us,  if  you  can,  so  that  Sister  Richards  and  I  might  be  com- 
forted." 

A  few  nights  after  that  I  took  Sister  Richards  for  a  ride.  We  asked 
the  younger  boy  if  he  would  like  to  go  with  us.  He  said:  "No.  I  think 
I  will  stay  home."  The  next  morning  was  Sunday  morning.  He  came 
in  and  crawled  up  on  his  mother's  bed,  holding  in  his  hand  the  two 
patriarchal  blessings,  and  he  said:  "Mother,  while  you  were  out  riding 
last  night  I  read  these  blessings."  He  said :  "You  see,  you  haven't  under- 
stood them." 

I  think  just  for  the  matter  of  getting  it  clearly  before  you  I  shall 
read  a  few  words  from  the  two  blessings,  as  they  were  given  by  the 
Patriarch.  In  the  oldest  boy's  blessing,  the  one  who  passed  away,  the 
Patriarch  said: 

For  it  will  be  thy  privilege  to  bear  the  holy  Priesthood  and  to  go 
even  among  strangers  and  in  strange  lands,  in  defense  of  truth  and 
righteousness. 

This  we  could  not  understand.    And  to  the  younger  boy  he  said: 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Dag 

For  thou  shalt  bear  the  holy  Priesthood  in  defense  of  righteousness 
and  truth,  both  at  home  and  abroad. 

The  boy  said :  "You  see,  Mother,  I  am  going  to  labor  at  home  and 
abroad,  but,"  he  said,  "LeGrand  was  to  go  to  strange  lands  and  strange 
people;"  and  he  said,  "They  are  not  on  this  earth.  We  know  all  the 
lands  of  this  earth  and  we  know  all  the  people  that  are  here." 

And  to  the  oldest  boy  the  Patriarch  said:  "And  in  due  time  thy 
home  shall  be  a  fit  abode  for  the  spirits  of  thy  loved  ones ;"  and  to  the 
younger  boy  he  said :  "Thou  shalt  enjoy  the  comforts  of  a  happy  home 
and  the  blessings  of  honored  fatherhood,  for  thou  shalt  see  thy  pos- 
terity grow  up  around  thee,  to  honor  thee  in  the  same  kind  of  way  in 
which  thou  hast  honored  thy  parents."  Now,  reverse  the  blessings  and 
give  the  younger  boy's  blessing  to  the  older  boy,  and  there  would  be  no 
explanation.  He  said :  "Mother,  you  see,  LeGrand's  home  is  to  be  the 
home  of  the  spirits  of  his  loved  ones,  and  my  home  is  to  be  here  on  this 
earth,  where  I  will  see  my  children  grow  up  around  me." 

You  cannot  tell  me  that  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  did  not  give  that 
fourteen  year  old  boy  the  inspiration  and  revelation  to  understand  these 
blessings,  and  our  hearts  have  been  comforted. 

PROMISES  OF  THE  LORD  SURE  OF  FULFILMENT 

My  faith  in  God  and  his  eternal  purposes  is  such  that  I  never  doubt 
but  that  he  has  made  adequate  provision  for  the  fulfilment  of  every 
promise,  and  to  complete  and  perfect  the  work  which  he  has  here  com- 
menced. In  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  he  said :  "His  pur- 
poses fail  not,  neither  are  there  any  who  can  stay  his  hand."  And 
again :  "I  give  unto  you  a  new  commandment,  that  I,  the  Lord  your 
God,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say,  and  when  ye  do  not  what  I  say, 
ye  have  no  promise."  And  when  we  receive  a  promise  from  the  Lord 
through  his  servants,  it  is  my  faith  that  that  promise  shall  be  realized 
if  we  keep  his  commandments,  if  not  in  this  life,  then  after  this  life. 

Now  I  ask  you  if  you  understand  all  the  things  in  the  scriptures  ? 
Did  not  the  Savior  say,  when  he  taught  in  parables,  and  his  disciples  came 
to  him  and  asked  him  why  he  spake  in  parables :  "Because  it  is  given 
unto  you  to  know  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  but  to  them 
it  is  not  given." 

If  there  were  time  I  would  like  to  refer  to  some  of  the  prophecies 
of  ancient  Israel.  I  was  reading  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  other 
day,  that  when  Christ  our  Lord  appeared  here  in  this  land  of  America  he 
quoted  some  of  the  prophecies  of  Isaiah,  and  he  bore  his  solemn,  sacred 
testimony,  as  the  God  of  heaven,  that  every  prophecy  of  Isaiah  should 
be  fulfilled;  and  there  are  prophecies  there  that  no  learned  man  in  this 
world  could  interpret  or  explain,  without  the  knowledge  and  the  in- 
formation that  have  come  through  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Sometimes  I  wonder  why  we  go  to  the  world  for 
explanation  of  the  scriptures,  when  we  have  the  revelations  of  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  to  guide  us, 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


27 


To  you  men  who  are  privileged  to  preside  over  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
I  feel  that  it  is  your  responsibility  as  watchmen  upon  the  towers  of 
Israel,  to  see  to  it  that  each  Patriarch  in  your  stake  is  living  worthy 
to  enjoy  the  inspiration  of  his  calling,  and  that  none  shall  continue 
in  this  sacred  service  should  his  mind  in  any  way  become  impaired 
through  advancing  years. 

LIVING  FAITH  A  SAVING  POWER 

Now  I  say  to  you  that  I  think  the  thing  we  need  more  than  any  other 
thing  today  is  to  plant  in  the  hearts  of  our  boys  and  girls  this  living  faith 
in  God,  that  like  David  of  old,  they  may  feel  and  know  that  there  is 
no  spot  so  dark  and  no  place  so  far  removed  and  remote  that  the  all- 
seeing  eye  of  God  is  not  upon  them,  and  that  they  shall  be  held  account- 
able for  their  deeds. 

In  conclusion,  may  I  leave  with  you  these  words  taken  from  our 
boy's  memo  book  as  he  copied  them  from  the  sayings  of  Alma :  "And 
also  trust  no  one  to  be  your  teacher  nor  your  minister,  except  he  be  a 
man  of  God  walking  in  his  ways  and  keeping  his  commandments." 

I  hope  that  in  all  Israel,  in  the  homes,  in  the  institutions,  and 
in  the  Priesthood  quorums,  we  shall  never  be  accused  of  destroying 
faith  in  the  lives  and  in  the  hearts  of  our  boys  and  girls. 

God  bless  you,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Lamb  of  God,"  (Bizet)  was  sung  by  the  Singing 
Mothers. 

Elder  John  A.  Elison,  President  of  the  Raft  River  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  convened  promptly  at  2  o'oclock  Friday  afternoon, 
October  6. 

President  Grant  announced  that  the  Singing  Mothers  would  furnish 
the  music  for  this  meeting.  The  opening  number  was  a  hymn  by  the 
Choir  and  congregation,  "How  firm  A  Foundation." 

Elder  William  L.  Adamson,  President  of  the  Blaine  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

An  anthem,  "The  Lord's  Prayer,"  was  sung  by  the  Singing  Mothers. 

PRESIDENT   RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  This  is  a  very  wonderful  sight,  to  see 
so  many  Latter-day  Saints  assembled  in  this  great  tabernacle. 

I  have  been  thrilled  thus  far  with  the  proceedings  of  the  Conference. 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

We  had  a  most  excellent  session  this  forenoon,  and  the  words  that  were 
spoken  by  President  Clark  it  is  to  be  hoped  will  reach  far  distant  and 
fall  upon  the  ears  of  law-makers,  and  of  kings  and  potentates  of  the 
earth,  and  especially  upon  those  who  are  engaged  in  war. 

I  was  thrilled  with  the  remarks  of  the  other  brethren  who  spoke  and 
with  the  singing  of  the  choir.    It  was  quite  exceptional. 

And  now,  brethren  and  sisters,  why  are  you  assembled  here  ?  You 
have  come  from  afar  and  from  nearby,  and  there  are  others  listening 
in.  I  take  it  that  you  have  come  to  wait  upon  the  Lord  and  listen  to 
what  he  has  to  say  to  you  through  his  anointed  servants.  It  is  a  rare 
opportunity  for  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  reach  our  hearts  as  we  are 
assembled  in  this  sacred  place. 


STUDY  OF  DOCTRINE  AND  COVENANTS  URGED 

I  have  here  in  my  hand  a  most  wonderful  book,  its  value  cannot 
be  estimated  in  dollars  and  cents.  It  is  one  of  the  sacred  books  of  the 
world  ;  there  are  none  greater  perhaps.  It  is  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
one  of  the  standard  works  of  the  Church.  This  book,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  is  a  book  containing  the  revelations  of  God  given  unto  this  people 
through  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet.  Some  two  hundred  revelations 
collected  and  bound  together,  and  they  are  sent  forth  as  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  of  the  Church.  They  constitute  the  pure  word  of  God 
to  us.  We  can  depend  upon  the  teachings  of  this  book,  and  you  should 
know  that  a  deep  and  thorough  study  of  the  book  before  me  is  more  than 
equivalent  to  a  university  education.  You  may  wonder  why  I  say  this, 
but  as  a  matter  of  fact  the  university  education  does  not  and  could  not 
give  us  the  actual  saving  principles  of  eternal  life.  That  information 
comes  direct  from  our  heavenly  Father. 

The  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  covers  every  phase  of  the 
Gospel  of  salvation,  and  speaks  of  the  restoration  of  the  Melchizedek 
and  Aaronic  Priesthoods  representing  the  authority  of  God  given  to 
man  upon  the  earth.  It  describes  the  three  glories — the  celestial,  the 
terrestrial,  and  the  telestial — in  far  greater  fulness  than  does  the  vision 
given  to  Paul  the  Apostle.  It  speaks  in  great  plainness  of  the  •eternity 
of  the  marriage  covenant  that  can  be  had  only  in  the  temple  of  God. 
It  describes  the  glorious  vision  of  the  Savior  in  the  Kirtland  temple, 
his  acceptance  of  the  temple ;  the  visitation  of  Moses  and  his  commitment 
of  the  keys  of  gathering,  and  the  visitation  by  Elias,  and  his  commitment 
of  authority;  the  visitation  of  Elijah  in  direct  fulfilment  of  Malachi's 
prediction,  pointing  to  the  work  for  the  dead,  which  is  one  of  the  im- 
portant things  that  are  very  dear  to  us  and  cannot  or  must  not  be  over- 
looked or  forgotten,  because  we  without  our  dead  cannot  be  made  perfect, 
and  they  without  us  cannot  be  made  perfect. 

In  the  curriculum  of  the  university  of  education  what  teaching 
will  you  find,  though  it  may  be  important,  that  is  equal  to  what  is  set 
forth  in  this  precious  book? 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


29 


IMPORTANCE  OF  REVELATION 

I  would  like  to  show  by  reading  two  lines  here  how  very  particular 
the  Lord  is.  When  he  speaks  there  should  be  all  attention,  and  when 
he  commands,  obedience  should  follow  without  hesitation,  without  mur- 
mur or  fault-finding.  Somebody  might  ask,  which  is  the  most  important 
revelation  in  this  wonderful  book?  I  will  answer  you  that  I  do  not 
know,  I  have  not  the  wisdom  nor  the  understanding  to  determine  that 
question.  All  of  the  revelations  of  God  are  important.  He  speaks  to  a 
point  that  is  definite.  Whenever  he  appears  there  is  a  reason,  as  there 
was  when  he  appeared  with  his  Beloved  Son  to  Joseph  the  boy.  There 
was  a  reason  for  his  being  there ;  it  was  not  just  an  excursion  from 
heaven  down  to  the  earth,  but  something  important  was  about  to  happen. 
The  Father  spoke  to  the  boy  and  said,  "This  is  my  Beloved  Son,  hear 
him !"  So  it  appears  there  was  something  important  to  be  said  on  that 
occasion.  The  Son  spoke  to  the  boy  and  said,  "What  do  you  want?" 
Not  quite  so  roughly  as  that  of  course,  but  "What  would  you  like?" 
And  the  boy  replied  in  a  simple  way — it  was  the  language  of  a  boy — 
I  want  to  know  which  one  of  these  Christian  sects  is  right.  There  are 
quite  a  number  of  them  here  and  they  have  created  very  considerable 
disturbance.  They  contradict  one  another ;  they  say  Christ  is  here,  and 
Christ  is  there,  I  want  to  know  which  one  is  right  and  which  one  I  am 
to  join? 

That  was  an  important  question  for  a  boy  fourteen  years  of  age 
to  put  up  to  Deity.  But  he  was  in  earnest  about  it,  he  wanted  to  know, 
and  the  Son  said:  You  are  not  to  join  any  of  them,  for  none  of  them 
is  right,  and  their  worship  is  not  acceptable  to  me,  or  words  to  that 
effect. 

The  boy  evidently  was  astonished.  He  did  not  know  what  to  make 
of  that  statement.  He  thought  one  of  the  various  churches  must  be  right 
and  the  others  of  course  wrong.  But  none  of  them  was  right,  and  he 
was  told  not  to  join  them.  He  was  given  to  understand  that  he  had 
a  work  to  do. 

Somebody  might  say,  "Well,  Brother  Clawson,  that  was  a  wonderful 
vision,  but  why  did  the  Lord  wait ;  why  didn't  he  just  lay  hands  on  the 
boy  and  bless  him  and  bestow  upon  him  divine  authority  to  solve  his 
problem?"  Well,  that  was  not  the  method  the  Lord  used  at  that  time, 
or  perhaps  any  other  time.  The  boy  was  not  prepared  to  receive  any 
authority.  He  was  hardly  prepared  to  endure  the  vision  of  the  Father 
and  the  Son.  I  suppose  he  had  to  be  transfigured  in  order  to  enjoy  their 
presence.  The  boy  must  have  some  training,  some  schooling  before  he 
could  do  the  work  required  of  him,  just  as  we  need  training  and  schooling 
for  our  work.  We  need  to  study  and  delve  into  principles  of  the  Gospel 
"and  become  acquainted  with  them.  So  this  boy  was  ministered  to  by 
angels  from  heaven.  He  wanted  to  know  about  the  principle  of  baptism. 
The  Father  and  the  Son  sent  John  down  to  tell  him  and  Oliver  Cowdery 
and  to  give  them  what  authority  was  needed  at  that  time.  The  young 
boy  would  rapidly  be  growing  older.   Peter,  James,  and  John,  who  held 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Dag 

the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  in  the  days  of  the  Apostles,  came  later,  and 
laid  their  hands  upon  the  heads  of  Joseph  and  Oliver  and  committed 
to  them  the  keys  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 

I  am  telling  you  now  something  you  already  know,  of  course,  but 
I  presume  there  are  many  people  here  and  in  the  Church  who  have 
not  looked  much  into  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  do  not  think  any 
of  us  spends  any  too  much  time  in  doing  so.  It  is  a  big  question.  This 
great  Gospel  takes  some  thought  and  a  good  deal  of  prayer  to  compre- 
hend it,  and  authority  to  exercise  the  Priesthood.  There  will  be  a  gather- 
ing of  the  Priesthood  in  this  building  Saturday  night  and  a  great  com- 
pany of  men  of  the  Church  and  young  boys  will  fill  this  house;  it  will 
be  a  wonderful  sight.  If  that  body  of  men  who  shall  come  together  were 
all  equally  faithful  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  God  one  hundred 
per  cent,  they  could  make  this  great  building,  tremble  on  its  foundr-  on 
by  the  exercise  of  their  faith. 

daniel's  prophecy 

I  am  talking  to  you  now  briefly,  brethren  and  sisters,  about  the 
kingdom  that  Daniel  saw  when  he  looked  down  through  the  ages,  down 
and  down,  until  he  came  to  that  time  when  the  world  was  broken  up 
into  small  kingdoms.  "There  will  be  kings  in  that  latter  day."  We 
are  right  in  the  midst  of  it,  and  then  Daniel  said  by  the  spirit  of  prophecy : 
"In  the  days  of  these  kings  the  God  of  heaven  shall  set  up  a  kingdom 
which  shall  never  be  destroyed:  and  the  kingdom  shall  not  be  left  to 
other  people,  but  it  shall  break  in  pieces  and  consume  all  these  kingdoms, 
and  it  shall  stand  forever." 

Now  we  are  identified  with  that  kingdom,  that  something  that  must 
endure  forever,  and  as  long  as  we  hold  on  to  the  kingdom  and  are 
faithful  we  will  live  forever  in  that  kingdom. 

A  MARVELOUS  WORK 

Now  I  want  to  show  you  how  very  particular  the  Lord  is.  I  am 
going  to  read  from  section  6  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
being  a  revelation  that  was  given  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery 
for  their  benefit,  but  it  applies  perhaps  equally  to  all  of  the  members 
of  the  Church.   A  general  obligation  goes  with  this  section : 

A  great  and  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  unto  the  children 
of  men. 

I  think  you  will  get  the  idea  from  what  I  have  said  that  it  is  a 
tremendously  important  work.  The  Lord  calls  it  a  marvelous  work, 
and  he  uses  that  expression  in  other  sections.  And  then  he  goes  on  to  say : 

Behold,  I  am  God;  give  heed  unto  my  word,  which  is  quick  and 
powerful,  sharper  than  a  two-edged  sword,  to  the  dividing  asunder  of 
both  joints  and  marrow;  therefore  give  heed  unto  my  words. 

You  see  the  Lord  must  not  be  trifled  with,  and  when  he  gives  a 
commandment  and  we  do  not  receive  it  and  do  not  carry  it  out,  what 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  1V1NS 


31 


becomes  of  us?  That  man  who  takes  such  a  course  will  become  blind 
in  his  mind.  While  he  thinks  he  is  right  and  probably  boasts  of  his  stand- 
ing in  the  Church  he  is  nevertheless  in  the  dark  because  he  has  ignored 
or  broken  the  commandment  of  God. 

RICHES  OF  ETERNAL  LIFE 

I  am  passing  over  a  number  of  paragraphs  here  until  I  come  to 
the  seventh  paragraph  in  this  revelation : 

Seek  not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom,  and  behold,  the  mysteries  of 
God  shall  be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall  you  be  made  rich.  Behold, 
he  that  hath  eternal  life  is  rich. 

I  remember  reading  about  the  funeral  of  a  brother  in  moderate 
financial  circumstances.  President  Young  was  one  of  the  speakers,  and 
he  pointed  to  the  casket  in  which  the  remains  were  resting  under  the 
pulpit  and  said:  "There  lies  a  rich  man."  And  yet  he  had  been  poor 
all  his  lifetime  in  the  flesh.  His  talents,  his  ability  were  not  of  a 
financial  character.  There  is  really  a  sermon  in  that  which  might  be 
developed  if  I  had  time. 

Then  I  pass  on  to  the  13th  verse.  It  is  all  good,  brethren  and  sisters, 
but  there  are  limitations: 

If  thou  wilt  do  good,  yea,  and  hold  out  faithful  to  the  end,  thou  shalt 
be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  which  is  the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts  of 
God ;  for  there  is  no  gift  greater  than  the  gift  of  salvation. 

So  if  we  seek  for  wisdom  and  we  use  it,  that  is  what  we  will  get, 
the  gift  of  salvation. 

This  is  a  very  fine  subject.  It  is  a  good  thing  to  take  a  few  moments 
in  the  Conference  here  to  point  out  some  of  these  things  that  may  possibly 
be  discussed  by  other  speakers. 

I  know  that  this  is  the  kingdom  of  God,  as  referred  to  by  Daniel. 
I  verily  believe  that  the  temple  on  this  block  is  the  temple  that  Isaiah 
saw  in  vision :  "The  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house,"  and  this  is  the 
people  of  God  and  I  love  them  and  am  happy  to  be  identified  with  them. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you,  and  bless  the  Presidency,  the  Twelve,  and 
other  Authorities,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  deem  it  a  great  responsibility  to  stand 
here  before  you  this  afternoon  and  occupy  your  time,  and  I  trust  that 
for  the  few  moments  I  am  here  you  will  lend  me  your  faith  and  prayers, 
that  the  testimony  I  may  render  to  you  may  be  directed  by  the  Spirit  of 
God,  for  my  only  purpose  is  to  give  you  a  true  testimony  of  my  feelings 
regarding  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  MEMBERSHIP  IN  THE  CHURCH 

"We  believe  in  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ." 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

I  believe  I  have  repeated  that  before  you  at  other  times  in  this  pulpit. 
Just  recently  I  was  in  attendance  at  a  Stake  conference  and  as  various 
men  were  called  to  the  stand,  the  directing  Apostle  who  was  present  said : 
"Tell  the  people  why  you  are  glad  that  you  belong  to  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints."  You  can  imagine  the  various  reasons 
that  were  given. 

This  afternoon  I  am  going  to  tell  you  that  I  am  glad  that  I  am  a 
member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  because 
we  believe  in  God  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  We  believe  them  to  be 
real  personages;  we  believe  that  they  are  embodied  spirits.  It  has 
recently  been  my  privilege  to  study  the  commentaries  in  a  certain  Bible 
that  is  exant  in  the  world  and  which  serves  a  very  large  community  of 
Christian  people.  Some  of  these  comments  appear  to  me  exceedingly 
strange,  and  one  of  them  was  this.  Some  of  you  have  heard  me  tell 
this  experience,  but  perhaps  it  will  stand  repetition :  "God  said,  Let  there 
be  light,  and  there  was  light."  The  commentary  says :  "Since  God  is  a 
spirit  he  has  no  parts,  neither  hands,  nor  arms,  nor  feet,  nor  legs,  nor 
tongue.  Since  the  tongue  is  necessary  to  speech  he  could  not  speak. 
So  that  passage  means  that  in  some  unusual  way  God  caused  that  there 
should  be  light." 

PURPOSE  IN  JOSEPH  SMITH'S  FIRST  VISION 

I  believe,  and  I  think  you  all  believe  the  testimony  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  that  God  and  Jesus  Christ,  in  vision,  appeared  to  him, 
that  both  of  them  talked  to  him,  and  that  he  saw  them  in  their  spiritual 
bodies.  I  believe  that  the  great  purpose  of  that  vision  was  to  combat 
the  error  that  had  grown  up  in  the  world  regarding  the  personality 
of  God.  Regardless  of  the  fact  that  Jesus  Christ  had  testified  that  he 
was  in  the  image  of  his  Father,  and  that  those  who  saw  him  saw  the 
Father,  because  of  that  extreme  likeness,  the  world  generally  had  for- 
gotten that  idea  of  God.  In  this  vision  to  Joseph  Smith  and  his  testi- 
mony to  the  world  regarding  it  there  was  brought  to  us  anew  the 
testimony  of  the  personality  of  God,  and  I  like  to  believe  in  a  God  who 
I  think  has  an  interest  in  me  and  you,  his  children.  I  like  to  think  that 
he  is  something  like  me  perhaps,  only  far  superior.  I  like  the  idea  of 
the  Church  that  if  you  and  I  shall  avail  ourselves  to  the  maximum  of  our 
possibilities,  some  time  in  eternity  we  may  have  the  power  of  God,  that 
there  is  no  limit,  if  you  will,  to  the  progress  that  the  spirit  of  man  can 
attain  to. 

PRINCIPLES  AND  ORDINANCES  OF  THE  GOSPEL  BRING  JOY 

That  is  one  reason  that  I  am  glad  that  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  because  our  belief  satisfies  that 
idea  of  mine.  I  am  glad  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  because  we  teach 
faith,  repentance,  and  baptism.  If  I  were  sure  that  my  faith  is  of  such 
a  nature  that  though  I  should  live  to  be  an  aged  man,  older  than  my 
father,  I  should  never  falter  nor  question  the  fundamental  doctrines  of 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


33 


the  Church,  but  that  I  should  so  conduct  myself  that  when  I  lay  down 
my  burdens,  my  brethren  will  think  of  me  as  one  of  absolute  faith,  I 
would  be  happy.  My  constant  prayer  to  God  is  that  I  may  have  that 
faith,  that  it  may  carry  me  through  and  over  all  of  the  obstacles  that 
may  arise. 

I  do  believe  in  God,  I  believe  in  my  brethren,  I  even  believe  to  a 
very  great  extent  in  myself,  and  I  trust  that  that  is  not  egotistical, 
because  I  have  been  called  to  a  responsible  position,  and  I  am  trying  to 
discharge  that  responsibility  under  the  direction  of  the  Spirit  of  God, 
and  I  believe  that  I  have  a  claim  upon  God  so  long  as  my  life  is  reasonably 
pure  and  acceptable  to  him,  for  those  blessings. 

I  am  glad  that  repentance  is  one  of  the  doctrines  of  this  Church, 
for  none  of  us  is  perfect.  No  one  recognizes  his  fallibilities  perhaps  more 
than  you  and  I.  No  one  recognizes  the  need  of  repentance  more  than 
we.  But  I  am  glad  that  God  has  promised  us  that  if  we  will  repent  of 
the  things  that  we  know  are  wrong  he  will  bless  us,  that  he  will  give  us 
greater  light,  and  that  with  that  greater  light  we  can  better  serve  him 
and  serve  our  fellows.  Repentance  causes  us,  when  it  is  real  and  true, 
to  abandon  the  improper  ways  of  life  and  to  accept  those  that  are  proven 
to  be  true.  There  are  many  things  that  the  experiences  of  the  past  few 
generations  have  demonstrated  to  us  as  being  true  matters  of  life,  and 
we  should  accept  them  and  we  should  try  to  live  them. 

I  am  glad  we  believe  in  baptism,  and  baptism  in  the  form  in  which 
it  was  taught  and  practiced  by  Christ  our  Lord — baptism  that  was 
acceptable  among  the  Nephite  people  upon  the  American  continent  under 
the  express  inspiration  and  direction  of  Christ  himself — baptism  by 
immersion  if  you  will. 

THE  PURPOSES  OF  BAPTISM 

I  am  glad  that  the  purpose  of  baptism  is  for  the  remission  of  sins, 
and  that  when  one  goes  down  into  the  water  and  is  submerged  and  comes 
up  under  the  blessing  of  the  man  who  performs  that  ordinance  his  sins 
are  washed  away,  provided  his  repentance  is  true,  and  he  starts  forth  in 
a  newness  of  life.  That  we  believe  is  one  of  the  very  major  purposes  of 
baptism. 

Baptism  has  another  purpose  as  well,  for  it  is  an  initiatory  ordinance 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Without  baptism 
we  do  not  become  members  of  the  Church.  I  would  not  say  that  without 
baptism  we  are  not  entitled  to  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  but  we  do  not 
become  members  in  his  Church  without  it.  Since  baptism  indicates  a 
repentance  for  sin  and  a  washing  away  of  those  sins  we  are  then  ready 
for  any  and  all  of  the  blessings  which  come  as  promised  to  us,  depending 
only  upon  the  manner  of  our  living.  We  are  eligible  to  exaltation  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  our  Heavenly  Father.  Some  of  us  feel  that  that  is 
the  major  purpose  of  baptism.  We  are  told  in  the  scriptures  that  baptism 
is  for  the  remission  of  our  sins.  I  believe  that  both  of  them  are  major 
purposes  of  baptism,  but  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  say  which  is  more 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

important,  because  without  repentance  and  without  the  washing  away 
of  our  sins  we  could  hardly  obtain  membership  in  the  Church,  and 
without  that  we  could  hardly  claim  the  privileges  of  exaltation.  Repent- 
ance and  purity  of  life  are  essential  to  this  objective. 

That  then  is  another  reason  why  I  am  glad  I  am  a  member  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  because  I  believe  that  the 
baptism  to  which  I  submitted  was  a  true  baptism  of  Christ  our  Lord 
and  that  it  was  performed  by  men  who  are  properly  authorized  to  do  it. 

I  am  glad  that  through  the  laying  on  of  hands  of  those  in  authority 
one  may  be  given  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  I  trust  that  I  have  been  the 
recipient  of  it  and  that  many  if  not  all  of  the  official  acts  that  I  have 
performed  have  been  done  under  its  dictates ;  that  is  my  hope  at  least. 
And  furthermore,  so  long  as  I  retain  the  Priesthood  and  honor  and 
respect  it,  my  actions  will  be  directed  by  that  Spirit. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

I  am  glad  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  because  I  believe  God  sent  his  representatives  from  heaven 
to  restore  the  Priesthood,  which  I  claim  to  bear,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  that  it  has  come  down  to  me  in  an  unbroken  line  of  descent. 
The  greatest  privilege  I  feel  I  can  have  is  to  hold  that  Priesthood  and  to 
be  worthy  under  the  authorization  that  I  have.  I  trust  that  God  will  give 
me  his  Spirit,  that  I  shall  always  be  glad  for  a  membership  in  his  Church, 
that  I  shall  never  be  ashamed  to  tell  the  world  that  I  am  a  member  . of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  that  when  occasion  offers  I 
may  tell  it  verbally,  but  I  would  that  in  every  day  and  every  hour  of  my 
life  my  conduct  should  proclaim  it  to  the  world ;  and  I  pray  that  God 
will  bless  us  all  that  we  may  be  happy  and  contented  in  our  association 
with  one  another  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.   God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang  "Thanksgiving  Song  for  Mothers" 
(Frank  W.  Asper),  also  solo  by  Bessie  Morley. 

ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 

Former  President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  will  never  become  common- 
place to  worship  beneath  this  dome.  This  building  speaks  of  the  best, 
it  reflects  the  wisdom,  the  originality  and  the  genius  of  the  men  who 
established  this  commonwealth. 

It  is  a  very  impressive  thing  to  look  into  the  faces  of  the  men  and 
women  who  are  the  leaders  of  the  Church  after  a  hundred  years  of  its 
establishment. 

We  have  all  been  impressed  and  inspired  with  this  Conference. 
The  official  declaration  of  the  Church  with  reference  to  war,  those  who 
wage  unrighteous  war,  will  have  a  place  among  the  historic  documents 
of  the  Church. 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 


35 


It  well  becomes  us  to  ponder  carefully  the  words  of  the  President 
of  the  Church.  He  is  the  mouthpiece  of  the  Almighty  to  this  people, 
he  is  entitled  to  the  inspiration  of  his  high  calling,  and  those  who  listen 
in  obedience  to  his  word  will  be  blessed. 

The  American  people  need  their  thinking  clarified  in  these  troubled 
days.  It  is  most  gratifying  to  all  of  us  and  to  all  who  have  had  the 
opportunity  of  listening  this  morning  to  the  noble  and  courageous  words 
of  one  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  a  really  great  utterance  in 
times  like  these. 

So  far  as  peace  is  concerned  and  our  attitude  toward  war,  our  path 
is  made  plain.  In  former  days  prophets  were  also  statesmen,  and  that 
is  the  case  now.  God  be  praised  for  men  who  have  the  vision  and  the 
courage  and  the  capacity  to  help  us  in  these  times ;  we  need  it. 

All  Latter-day  Saints  and  all  thoughtful  Americans  feel  that  our 
last  defense  as  a  great  democracy  is  righteous  behavior,  that  the  peace 
and  perpetuity  of  this  government  depend  upon  the  lives  of  its  citizens, 
and  no  other  people  have  a  cleaner  and  deeper  appreciation  of  the 
privileges  and  blessings  of  the  great  government  that  shelters  us  than 
have  we. 

This  report  is  my  last  official  act  as  the  former  president  of  the 
Northern  States  Mission.  The  three  and  a  half  years  that  we  presided 
over  that  mission  were  and  always  will  remain  memorable  years.  We 
formed  a  great  attachment  for  the  Saints  in  the  Mission,  numbering 
nearly  five  thousand,  including  the  stake.  The  contact  with  those 
who  are  not  members  of  the  Church  was  very  pleasant. 

But  the  most  enduring  and  impressive  experience  that  goes  with 
missionary  work  is  contact  with  your  boys  and  girls  who  are  the  mission- 
aries of  the  Church.  This  was  a  delightful,  personal,  intimate  contact, 
the  kind  that  builds  friendships  that  last  forever.  This  comradeship 
is  inspiring  and  enduring.  There  is  no  experience  sweeter  than  the 
experience  which  comes  with  one's  contact  with  young  men  when  their 
hearts  are  touched  with  the  fire  of  the  Holy  Ghost  when  their  visions 
are  expanded,  and  their  souls  are  warmed  with  gratitude  to  their  parents 
and  with  a  love  for  humanity.  After  all,  this  is  one  of  the  proof s  of  the 
divinity  of  Mormonism.  The  ingenuity  of  man  never  devises  a  plan 
quite  comparable  to  the  missionary  system  of  the  Mormon  Church  for 
building  character  in  man.  The  Almighty  in  his  mercy  has  reserved 
some  of  his  very  choicest  blessings  for  the  poor.  The  widow  who  toils 
and  makes  sacrifice  to  maintain  her  son  on  a  mission  is  compensated 
many  times.  No  matter  how  bitter  or  hard  the  sacrifice  is,  if  the  son 
makes  good,  all  this  sacrifice  is  sweetened  and  sanctified. 

The  Stake  President  who  offered  the  opening  prayer  told  me  this 
morning  that  not  so  long  since  he  had  his  returned  missionaries  together 
and  the  mothers  of  the  returned  missionaries.  He  had  the  boys  speak 
and  then  the  mothers,  and  I  am  prepared  to  say  that  what  the  mothers 
said  had  a  penetrating  effect  that  no  ordinary  eloquence  could  have. 
I  hope  the  time  will  never  come  when  the  worthy  sons  of  the  poor  will 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

be  denied  the  blessed  experience  of  a  mission,  for  after  all  the  sons  of 
widows  are  among  the  best  of  missionaries. 

A  missionary  experience  creates  a  militant  attitude  for  the  truth, 
the  spirit  of  a  crusader  grows  in  one's  heart.  I  am  sure  you  will  not 
interpret  what  I  am  about  to  say  as  a  self-righteous  utterance.  For 
three  and  a  half  years  in  common  with  other  missionaries  I  have  pleaded 
to  the  best  of  my  ability  your  cause  and  the  cause  of  righteousness 
in  the  world,  and  now  I  want  to  come  home  and  plead  with  you,  for  you 
have  a  great  reputation  to  live  up  to,  to  live  your  religion.  You  have 
demonstrated  your  devotion  in  the  most  practical  way.  You  have  been 
loyal  to  the  Church  and  its  leaders,  and  valiant  in  the  testimony  of 
Jesus,  and  it  is  only  a  commonplace  to  say  to  you  that  demonstration 
is  the  story  that  tells.  No  argument  is  so  eloquent,  no  appeal  so  powerful 
as  a  demonstration  of  what  Mormonism  will  do.  My  brethren  and 
sisters,  if  we  are  converted,  if  our  religion  carries  over  and  manifests 
itself  in  our  lives  we  preach  a  sermon  that  cannot  be  answered. 

We  have  the  truth,  and  we  say  it  in  humility,  but  in  confidence,  and 
I  want  to  say  whenever  I  have  the  opportunity,  that  if  we  have  faith 
enough — the  plain,  simple  faith,  the  faith  of  our  fathers — to  live  the 
simple  principles  of  our  religion,  we  are  destined  in  the  very  course  of 
events  to  rise  to  a  proud  place  in  the  world.  No  opposition  can  stay  our 
progress  if  we  only  have  the  faith  to  live  our  religion.  There  is  no 
substitute  for  the  intrinsic,  simple  matter  of  fact  faith  of  the  men  who 
laid  the  foundations  of  this  Church. 

You  are  asking  me  how  you  can  demonstrate,  what  you  can  do? 
May  I  suggest  one  thing.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  if  every  father  here 
and  every  mother  here  will  religiously  observe  family  prayers,  and  ask 
all  their  children  to  participate,  it  will  build  faith  in  the  hearts  of  your 
children,  you  will  have  a  better  influence  in  your  home,  you  will  do  better. 
The  Lord  will  be  inquired  after.  Try  this  for  six  months,  and  I  promise 
you  that  the  spiritual  morale  of  the  Church  will  be  stepped  up.  No 
man  need  be  rich  to  pray,  no  matter  how  humble  the  home  is  the  voice 
of  prayer  can  be  heard  there.  I  well  remember  when  my  father  came 
home  from  a  General  Conference  many  many  years  ago,  and  said :  "The 
President  of  the  Church  has  asked  all  the  people  to  put  their  houses  in 
order."  He  called  us  together  and  said  to  mother,  "I  want  you  to  see 
that  these  children  pray  when  I  am  not  here."  She  did  it.  Nothing 
was  more  helpful. 

I  would  like  to  endorse  the  discourse  preached  here  this  morning 
with  such  fervent  eloquence  by  the  Presiding  Bishop  of  this  Churcb. 

It  cheers  and  gladdens  one's  heart  to  be  with  you.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


37 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

From  the  last  Conference  that  I  attended,  to  this  Conference,  seems 
but  just  a  moment  or  two,  because  most  of  the  time  since  our  last 
Conference  I  have  been  away  from  home,  and  in  my  journey  again  to 
the  South  Seas  I  learned  one  or  two  things  that  brought  to  me  joy  and 
happiness  and  a  great  comfort. 

A  FOURTH  OF  JULY  INCIDENT 

I  would  like  to  tell  you  about  one  incident.  I  think  you  deserve 
to  hear  it.  Wallowing  through  the  trough  of  the  sea,  and  then  again 
on  the  top  of  the  mountains  of  water,  on  an  old  freight  boat  that  is 
•manned  by  a  very  splendid  captain,  one  who,  I  had  been  told  when  I  left 
Tahiti,  wouldn't  speak  a  pleasant  word  to  us  for  he  was  a  very  austere 
man,  this  very  pleasant  incident  occurred.  It  so  happened  that  we  were 
near  the  equator  and  it  was  the  Fourth  of  July,  so  on  this  day  each  of 
us,  of  course,  had  his  own  thoughts  concerning  home  and  his  own 
beloved  land  of  freedom.  Going  down  to  dinner  in  the  dining  room, 
we  found  stretched  across  a  great  mirror  placed  over  a  false  fireplace, 
a  beautiful  American  flag.  Each  of  us  saluted  it,  for  it  was  the  first 
we  had  seen  for  months,  and  this  austere  captain,  who  by  now  had 
become  my  friend  and  companion,  said: 

"Before  you  sit  down,  all  of  you  ladies  and  gentlemen,  I  would 
like  to  say  a  word  or  two  to  you.  This  is  your  day.  This  is  your 
birthday,  and  so  I  desire  to  extend  to  you  my  congratulations." 

Now,  this  was  a  British  captain. 

"I  don't  know,"  said  he,  "what  to  do,  and  I  am  rather  put  about 
and  embarrassed.  The  only  thing  I  know  to  do  is  to  toast  someone. 
Everything  we  do  in  national  celebration,  we  toast  the  King,  so  I  would 
like  to  say  to  you  that  I  desire  greatly,  irrespective  of  your  politics,  to 
propose  a  toast  to  the  President  of  your  great  land.  I  would  like 
to  toast  President  Franklin  Delano  Roosevelt,  not  because  of  him,  but 
because  of  the  great  country  he  represents." 

So  we  all,  officers  of  this  vessel  and  passengers,  drank  to  this  toast. 
Mr.  Del  Lord,  who  has  charge  of  the  filming  of  all  of  the  pictures  that 
are  released  from  the  Columbia  Studios  in  Hollywood,  was  aboard  with 
his  wife  and  son,  and  he  said :  "Go  on,  Hardy ;  answer  him."  It  was  a 
beautiful  gesture  that  Captain  Norton  had  extended  to  America.  I 
tried  earnestly  to  appropriately  thank  him. 

Arriving  home,  I  took  occasion  to  write  my  gratitude  to  Senator 
King — and  by  the  way,  to  Brother  King — in  Washington,  to  thank  him 
for  the  many  courteous,  kindly  things  which  he  had  done  for  me.  He 
had  gone  to  the  French  Ambassador  in  Washington  and  asked  him 
for  a  letter  for  me  to  take  down  to  Tahiti,  that  I  might  meet  the  Governor 
of  those  Islands,  and  that  Ambassador  said:  "No.  I  will  cable  Paris 
and  have  Paris  cable  Tahiti,"  and  that  was  done.  So  I  thanked  Senator 
King  for  this  kind  office,  and  the  many  other  things  which  he  had  done 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


for  me,  and  told  him  of  the  event  which  happened  on  this  boat  on 
July  4th. 

Back  to  me  came  a  letter,  and  in  that  letter  were  these  words : 
"Your  communication  intrigues  me,  and  I  have  taken  it  to  many 
of  the  senators.  They  are  all  pleased,  and  all  fired  with  a  desire  not 
to  be  outdone  by  any  other  nation.  I  have  taken  it  to  Cordell  Hull, 
and  he  is  delighted.  We  have  told  the  officials  of  the  Merchant  Marine 
of  America  that  when  occasion  presents  itself  they  shall  extend  like 
courtesies,  not  only  to  Great  Britain,  but  to  every  other  nation,  where 
they  know  a  day  is  set  apart  in  which  that  nation  may  celebrate." 

So  really  and  truly,  "Hands  across  the  sea,"  and  the  clasp  that  is 
spoken  of,  has  come  just  a  little  closer,  and  I  am  thankful  indeed  that 
this  has  come  about  through  one  of  our  own  people,  the  Honorable 
Senator  William  H.  King. 


Now,  being  conscious  of  the  great  purpose  which  you  have  demon- 
strated in  coming  to  this  historic  building  to  again  worship  God,  as  did 
your  forefathers, — and  they  now  are  gone — I  feel  that  this  position  is 
unquestionably  one  of  solemnity  and  one  of  great  responsibility.  Gen- 
eration after  generation  has  passed  on  since  1847,  when  our  people  first 
gathered  in  these  valleys,  and  yet" in  ever-increasing  numbers  there  has 
come  up,  each  semi-annual  Conference,  a  greater  and  a  bigger  horde 
of  people,  to  worship  God  as  they  desire  and  are  taught  by  the  revealed 
word  of  God. 

This  that  I  quote  is  from  St.  John : 

That  which  was  from  the  beginning,  which  we  have  heard,  which 
we  have  seen  with  our  eyes,  which  we  have  looked  upon,  and  our  hands 
have  handled,  of  the  Word  of  life; 

(For  the  life  was  manifested,  and  we  have  seen  it,  and  bear  witness, 
and  shew  unto  you  that  eternal  life,  which  was  with  the  Father,  and 
was  manifested  unto  us.) 

We  make  the  same  startling  declaration.  We  don't  mince  words, 
but  we  declare  that  God  lives,  that  he  has  spoken,  that  again  his  Gospel 
is  restored,  and  the  father,  who  carried  the  message  yesterday,  has  hand- 
ed the  burden  to  his  son,  and  he  goes  on  in  his  way  in  delivering  this 
great  message  of  truth  and  salvation. 


There  is  one  thing,  however,  that  I  have  observed.  I  believe 
that  if  we  would  adhere  a  little  closer  to  the  declarations  of  this  restored 
Gospel,  and  the  words  of  God  which  have  come  to  us,  not  forgetting 
the  first  principles  of  this  Gospel,  we  would  go  very  much  faster  and 
farther.  I  am  thinking  of  those  glorious  old  missionaries  of  this 
Church,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  Orson  Pratt,  President  Wilford  Woodruff, 
Heber  C.  Kimball.  Those  men  walked  forward  in  humility,  with  nothing 
in  their  hands  to  convince  and  convert  the  peoole  but  a  copy  of  that  book 


RESPONSIBILITY  OF  PREACHING  THE  TRUTH 


SUCCESS  OF  EARLY  MISSIONARIES 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


39 


which  miraculously  came  into  the  hands  of  Joseph  Smith  by  an  im- 
mortal being,  and  declared  its  truths  fearlessly  and  boldly,  and  lo,  when 
their  listeners  heard  the  message  and  read  this  book,  they  became,  many 
of  them,  as  ardent  in  their  desire  to  spread  the  Gospel  as  were  the  ones 
who  brought  the  message  to  them. 

SUCCESSFUL  STAKE  MISSIONARY  WORK 

Now,  the  Presidency  of  this  Church  and  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  have  in  years  past,  recent  years,  handed  to  the  First  Council 
of  the  Seventy  a  great  responsibility,  the  supervision  of  the  missionary 
work  of  the  stakes.  That  work  is  established  in  every  stake  of  Zion, 
and  the  results  which  have  come  from  that  inspired  beginning  have  been 
marvelous  indeed.  Do  you  know  that  there  were  baptized,  during  the 
first  eight  months  of  this  year,  1568  souls  into  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  who  were  not  in  the  fold  before ;  and  that 
in  one  stake  and  one  ward — and  that  stake  not  more  than  a  hundred 
and  fifty  miles  from  here — there  came  in  a  monthly  missionary  report 
to  our  Council  that  forty  baptisms  had  occurred?  We  could  hardly 
believe  it,  so  we  wrote  back  for  confirmation.  Back  to  us  came  the 
letter:  "Yes,  forty  have  been  baptized,  largely  due  to  the  wonderful 
work  of  our  women  missionaries  here  in  this  stake,  and  the  help  of 
some  splendid  bishops." 

I  want  to  say  that  we  are  grateful,  more  than  I  am  able  to  tell  you, 
for  the  work  that  the  bishops  have  been  doing  for  us. 

Let  me  read  to  you  what  the  Apostle  Peter  said,  because  I  believe 
we  can  apply  it  to  ourselves : 

But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal  priesthood,  an  holy  nation, 
a  peculiar  people;  that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises  of  him  who  hath 
called  you  out  of  darkness  into  his  marvelous  light. 

I  think  we  are  doing  that  as  best  we  can,  but  I  believe  we  can  do 
better  if  we  try  just  a  little  harder. 

WORDS  OF  ADVICE  FROM  THE  LORD 

Let  me  read  you  just  one  or  two  verses  from  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  Section  88,  and  I  am  finished : 

Appoint  among  yourselves  a  teacher,  and  let  not  all  be  spokesmen 
at  once ;  but  let  one  speak  at  a  time  and  let  all  listen  unto  his  sayings,  that 
when  all  have  spoken  that  all  may  be  edified  of  all,  and  that  every  man 
may  have  an  equal  privilege. 

See  that  ye  love  one  another;  cease  to  be  covetous;  learn  to  impart 
one  to  another  as  the  gospel  requires. 

Cease  to  be  idle ;  cease  to  be  unclean ;  cease  to  find  fault  one  with 
another ;  cease  to  sleep  longer  than  is  needful ;  retire  to  thy  bed  early, 
that  ye  may  not  be  wear,y;  arise  early,  that  your  bodies  and  your  minds 
may  be  invigorated. 

And  above  all  things,  clothe  yourselves  with  the  bond  of  charity, 
as  with  a  mantle,  which  is  the  bond  of  perfectness  and  peace. 

God  bless  this  work  and  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray,  in 
Jesus'  name,  Amen, 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  October  6  First  Day 


ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

Former  President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  very  humbly  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  in  the  few  words 
I  may  say  to  you  this  afternoon  by  way  of  reporting  my  missionary  labors 
in  the  Central  States  Mission.  I  have  been  away  since  the  8th  day 
of  March,  1928,  eleven  and  a  half  years.  During  that  time  I  labored 
first  in  the  Western  States  Mission,  and  later  in  the  Central  States 
Mission.  I  was  released  and  returned  home  on  the  2nd  day  of  July, 
this  year.  It  has  been  a  glorious  experience,  and  I  have  had  the  pleasure 
and  the  joy  of  sharing  affectionate  regards  with  a  good  many  people. 

I  was  checking  through  my  books  and  records,  and  I  find  that  I 
have  received  and  introduced  into  the  missionary  field  703  Elders  and 
lady  missionaries  in  that  length  of  time.  When  I  think  that  perhaps 
I  have  had  some  influence  upon  their  lives  for  good,  I  find  myself  humbly 
and  gratefully  happy  because  of  it. 

Prior  to  my  mission,  laboring  as  a  bishop.  I  had  a  great  deal  of 
pleasure  in  laboring  with  the  young  men  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 
In  that  time  I  have  no  record  of  how  many,  but  I  am  sure  between  100 
and  150  Priests  were  ordained  Elders  and  sent  into  the  field,  who  had 
been  influenced,  I  am  sure,  for  good  in  the  Priests'  Quorum  in  the  ward 
where  I  presided.  This  is  not  said  boastfully.  It  is  said  because  I 
appreciate,  from  the  very  depths  of  my  heart,  that  I  have  had  the  oppor- 
tunity of  doing  some  good. 

I  can  tell  you  that  the  Central  States  Mission  is  in  excellent  con- 
dition, and  that  the  administration  of  the  affairs  of  that  mission,  now 
in  the  hands  of  President  John  F.  Bowman,  is  being  ably  conducted. 
Brother  Bowman  is  taking  up  his  labors  with  vigor  and  earnestness, 
and  I  hear  nothing  but  good  reports  of  his  labors.  The  people  are  pleased 
with  him.  They  are  learning  to  love  him,  and  are  inspired  by  his 
utterances.  Brother  Bowman  has  the  gift  of  speech,  and  he  is  able  to 
stir  his  congregations  and  his  people,  who  love  to  hear  him  speak.  He 
also  has  the  gift  of  friendship.  He  makes  friends  quickly,  and  I  am 
sure  that  they  will  be  permanent  and  lasting  and  will  bring  him  much  joy. 

Frequently  visitors  coming  into  the  mission  field  used  to  tell  us 
that  they  noticed  a  spirit  in  our  meetings  that  did  not  seem  to  be  prevalent 
in  the  wards  or  stakes  of  Zion,  and  we  rather  got  the  impression  that 
we  were  more  spiritual  than  you  are,  and  we  felt,  perhaps,  that  was 
very  well.  But  I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  since  I  have  returned 
I  find  the  same  humble,  sweet,  fervent  spirit  in  the  stake  where  I  labor, 
and  among  the  people  with  whom  I  come  in  contact. 

It  has  been  a  great  pleasure  to  me  to  notice  the  great  improvement 
and  the  advancement  that  the  Church  has  made.  I  think  perhaps  you 
don't  quite  understand  how  fast  we  are  growing,  when  you  see  it  day 
by  day.  You  go  away  a  while  and  come  back.  It  is  like  the  wandering 
son  who  returns  to  the  family  and  doesn't  know  his  own  brothers  and 
sisters,  they  have  grown  up  so.  I  find  our  stakes  thriving  with  activity— 
at  least  the  stake  in  which  I  live.  I  find  the  boys  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood 


ELDER  JOSEPH  ANDERSON 


41 


active,  striving  to  become  standard  quorums.  I  find  a  fervent  spirit  among 
the  brethren. 

I  have  had  some  experience  out  in  one  of  the  stakes,  with  the  Welfare 
organization,  and  I  find  the  same  spirit  there.  I  have  had  the  pleasure 
of  sitting  down  with  a  few  bishops  and  going  over  some  of  their  budgets 
and  problems,  and  I  find  them  mighty  anxious  to  discharge  their  duties. 
Altogether  it  has  been  a  joy  to  come  home,  and  to  begin  to  be  actively 
associated  with  the  work  of  the  ministry  here. 

I  remember  a  good  many  years  ago,  when  I  used  to  go  East  every 
year  for  the  Deseret  News,  one  man  said  to  me  one  time :  "Chicago  is  a 
very  wicked  city,  isn't  it?"  I  said :  "I  don't  know.  I  never  saw  anything 
wicked  in  Chicago."  "Well,"  he  said,  "it  is."  I  said,  "I  don't  know 
a  thing  about  it.  I  have  never  seen  anything  but  good,  every  time  I 
ever  went  there."  It  made  me  think  of  a  story  they  tell  in  the  South. 
An  Arkansas  man  and  his  family  concluded  to  change  their  place  of 
residence,  so  they  put  all  their  belongings  in  a  wagon  and  drove  along 
the  road.  On  the  evening  of  a  certain  day  they  came  to  a  village.  Sitting 
on  a  front  porch  was  a  citizen  of  the  village.  The  driver  stopped  and 
said :  "Hello."  The  man  on  the  porch  said :  "Hello."  "What  place  is 
this?"  said  the  driver.  The  man  gave  him  the  name.  "What  kind  of 
people  live  here?"  "Oh,"  he  said,  "what  kind  of  people  live  where  you 
come  from?"  "Oh,"  he  answered,  "a  lot  of  liars  and  beggars  and 
thieves."  "Well,"  he  said,  "they  live  here  too,  just  like  the  people  you 
used  to  be  with." 

So  the  driver  went  on  a  little  farther,  and  in  the  next  town,  in 
response  to  the  question:  "What  kind  of  people  live  where  you  come 
from  ?"  he  said :  "A  lot  of  good  people."  "Well,"  said  the  man,  "there 
are  a  lot  of  good  people  here  too.   Come  on  in  and  be  one  with  us." 

I  think,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  find  what  we  look  for,  largely. 
I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  the  Church  at  home,  as  far  as  I  can  see, 
is  behaving  itself  mighty  well.  It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  be  associated 
in  the  local  ministry. 

I  am  grateful  to  my  heavenly  Father  that  I  have  been  counted 
worthy,  by  him  and  through  his  servants,  to  perform  these  missions. 
Now  I  am  grateful  that  I  am  permitted  to  return  home  again  and  be 
active  in  the  affairs  at  home,  for  I  have  discovered  that  it  is  not  pleasant 
to  be  inactive. 

May  God  bless  you.  May  the  Church  continue  to  grow  and  thrive, 
as  it  is  its  destiny  to  do,  I  humbly  ask,  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  ANDERSON 

Clerk  of  the  Conference 

I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  are  not  more  surprised 
than  am  I.  However,  I  recognize  it  as  an  honor  and  a  privilege  to 
address  one  of  the  sessions  of  this  great  Conference.  I  recall  that  when 
I  was  a  child,  and  a  very  small  child,  my  mother  used  to  bring  me  to  this 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  First  Day 

great  Tabernacle,  where  she  would  listen,  and  I  with  her,  to  the  remarks 
of  the  brethren  who  spoke  from  this  stand. 

I  have  had  the  privilege  of  attending,  during  the  past  eighteen  years, 
all  of  the  sessions  of  the  thirty-six  Conferences  that  we  have  had  during 
that  time.  This,  however,  is  the  first  time  I  have  had  the  privilege 
of  occupying  the  position  of  a  speaker. 

I  am  certainly  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  I  am  thankful  that  I  have  in  my  heart  an  assurance 
that  God  has  spoken  from  the  heavens  in  this  day  and  age  in  which  we 
live;  that  God  the  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ  appeared  to  the 
boy,  Joseph  Smith,  in  the  woods  near  Palmyra,  in  answer  to  humble 
prayer.  I  think  it  only  right  and  proper  that  in  the  opening  of  this 
great  dispensation  of  the  Gospel,  God  should  manifest  himself  once 
more  to  man. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  I  enjoy  of  associating  with  the 
present  leaders  of  this  Church,  and  the  privilege  I  have  had  of  associating 
with  those  who  have  presided  in  the  councils  of  the  General  Authorities 
during  the  past  eighteen  years.  I  can  truly  testify  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  they  are  men  of  God,  men  whose  sole  desire  and  ambition 
is  for  the  welfare  and  growth  of  this  Church.  I  have  had  the  privilege 
of  being  intimate  with  them.  I  believe  that  I  know  their  hearts,  and  I 
can  assure  you  that  they  are  God's  noblemen,  and  worthy  of  your 
trust  and  confidence. 

I  am  grateful  that  we  live  in  this  wonderful  land  of  America,  the 
land  of  Zion,  "a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands."  I  sincerely  hope  and 
pray  that  we  shall  always  keep  in  mind  that  this  is  the  land  of  Zion,  and 
that  so  long  as  we  worship  the  God  of  this  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ, 
it  will  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  us. 

There  is  a  feeling  throughout  the  United  States,  and  I  think  through- 
out the  world,  that  we  should  return  to  religion,  that  we  should  return 
to  God.  I  recall  that  when  I  was  in  Europe  two  years  ago,  with  President 
Grant,  we  were  reliably  informed  while  visiting  in  one  of  the  great  cities 
in  Germany  that  only  one  per  cent  of  the  people  in  that  city  attended 
church,  on  general  occasions,  and  ten  per  cent  on  special  occasions, 
and  it  was  said  that  that  was  the  condition  generally  in  that  country. 
We  heard,  from  people  who  visited  the  great  cathedrals  and  churches 
in  England,  that  a  similar  condition  existed  there.  I  am  sure  that  the 
same  might  be  said  truthfully  of  conditions  here  in  the  United  States ; 
but  I  am  grateful  to  say  that  in  our  own  community,  in  the  stakes  of 
Zion,  the  people  manifest  a  greater  interest  in  religion  than  is  commonly 
the  case  throughout  the  world.  Certainly  that  should  be  the  case,  for 
we  do  know  that  we  have  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation ;  and  no  people  has  ever  been  permanently  successful,  nor 
has  any  man  ever  been  permanently  successful,  who  has  neglected  the 
spiritual  influences  of  life. 

It  is  not  enough  that  we  live  the  Word  of  Wisdom ;  it  is  not  enough 
that  we  pay  our  tithing,  or  that  we  observe  the  Sabbath  Day  to  keep  it 
holy,  important  as  these  things  are;  every  act  of  our  lives  should  be 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


43 


in  keeping  with  the  commandments  of  our  heavenly  Father.  We  should 
love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  heart,  and  with  all  our  soul,  and 
with  all  our  mind,  and  we  should  love  our  neighbor  as  ourselves.  That 
is  the  great  law,  and  only  by  keeping  that  law,  and  by  keeping  all  of 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  can  we  expect  to  find  that  exaltation  in 
the  kingdom  of  our  Father  which  we  are  striving  to  obtain. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  that  we  may  keep  his  commandments ;  bless 
us  that  this  may  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  us,  that  we  may  indeed  be  the 
pure  in  heart,  I  humbly  pray.  May  he  bless  us  that  we  may  honor 
and  respect  these  brethren  who  have  been  called  to  preside  over  us,  and 
recognize  them  in  the  positions  that  they  hold,  as  representatives  of  the 
living  God,  is  my  humble  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

This  is  about  the  first  time  since  I  became  the  President  of  the 
Church  that  we  have  run  out  of  preachers.  As  there  are  a  few  minutes 
left,  I  shall  occupy  them  myself. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  OUTPOURING  OF  SPIRIT  AT  CONFERENCE  MEETINGS 

I  desire  to  express  my  gratitude  with  all  my  heart  for  the  very 
remarkable  and  splendid  meetings  we  have  had  thus  far  in  this  Confer- 
ence. This  is  a  remarkable  and  wonderful  gathering  this  afternoon  on  a 
week  day,  and  the  gathering  this  morning  was  a  most  marvelous  one.  We 
have  been  fed  the  bread  of  life.  We  have  had  spiritual  food.  We  have 
felt  in  our  hearts,  I  am  sure,  gratitude  to  God  for  the  rich  outpouring  of 
his  Holy  Spirit  thus  far  in  our  Conference.  In  the  kind  providences 
of  the  Lord  it  does  seem  to  me  that  from  year  to  year  since  I  have  had 
the  privilege  of  being  the  President  of  the  Church,  our  Conferences 
have  been  occasions  where  there  has  been  a  remarkable,  and  wonderful, 
and  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  for  this  I  have  been 
grateful  beyond  my  power  of  expression. 

PRAISE  FOR  AUTHORITIES  OF  CHURCH  PAST  AND  PRESENT 

I  feel  my  own  weakness  when  I  undertake  to  make  any  comparison 
between  myself  and  the  men  with  whom  I  was  associated  as  a  child ; 
with  Brigham  Young,  until  he  passed  away  just  before  I  was  twenty-one 
years  old;  and  with  the  other  Presidents  who  preceded  me  after  I 
became  an  Apostle. 

The  testimony  borne  here  by  Brother  Joseph  Anderson  I  can  bear ; 
that  I  know  that  for  more  than  fifty  long  years  now,  from  actual  associa- 
tion as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  the  President  of 
the  Church,  that  the  Apostles  and  the  men  who  have  stood  at  the  head 
of  this  Church,  with  very  few  exceptions,  have  desired  beyond  everything 
else  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  to  know  what  the  Lord  would  like  them 
to  do,  and  they  were  anxious  to  do  it  to  the  full  extent  of  their  ability. 

LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  BECOMING  KNOWN 

The  railing  out  against  the  Church,  the  viciousness  and  the  lying 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  6  •  First  Day 

about  our  people  as  a  whole  have  almost  entirely  died  out  because  people 
have  come  to  know  the  desires  of  our  hearts,  that  we  have  no  enmity 
against  even  those  who  malign  us.  The  Lord  has  helped  us  upon  many 
occasions  to  make  friends  with  some  who  were  at  one  time  our  enemies. 
They  have  learned  that  every  true  Latter-day  Saint  is  a  servant  of  the 
Lord  desiring  to  know  what  the  Lord  would  like  him  to  do,  and  although 
their  own  personal  ambitions  might  be  vastly  different  from  those  of 
ourselves,  yet  men  are  learning  that  a  real,  genuine  Latter-day  Saint  is 
a  man  worthy  to  be  trusted  in  all  particulars  because  he  desires  to  know 
the  mind  and  will  of  God.  While  they  may  feel  that  we  are  mistaken 
as  a  people,  they  realize  our  honesty  and  integrity. 

I  have  always  been  grateful  that  in  the  early  days,  when  Daniel 
Turtle  presided  over  the  Episcopal  Church  here,  when  he  went  East 
he  would  say,  "While  I  disagree  with  the  Mormons,  they  are  honest ; 
they  are  full  of  integrity ;  their  devotion  to  the  faith  is  fine  ;  and  I  respect 
them."    He  was  almost  alone,  however,  in  this  attitude. 

a  minister's  perfidy 

I  remember  that  a  minister  of  one  of  the  churches  said  that  he 
attended  a  picnic  out  in  Tooele  County  given  by  the  Sunday  School  and 
that  all  of  the  teachers,  every  one  of  them  was  drunk  and  nearly  all  of 
the  children.  It  so  happened  at  that  particular  time,  with  the  exception 
of  a  little  mining  town  called  Stockton,  there  was  not  a  saloon  in 
Tooele  County,  and  there  was  not,  as  you  all  know,  any  picnic  of  Latter- 
day  Saint  teachers  and  Sunday  School  children  where  anyone  was  drunk. 
Such  a  statement  was  a  lie  pure  and  simple. 

The  gentleman  afterwards  delivered  a  very  remarkable  and  won- 
derful sermon  in  the  Salt  Lake  Theatre  of  which  he  was  so  proud  that 
he  furnished  a  copy  of  it  to  the  Salt  Lake  Herald  and  another  copy  to 
the  Tribune.  It  so  happened  that  the  editor  of  the  Herald  had  to  stay 
at  the  office  that  night  because  the  assistant  editor,  who  had  to  put  the 
headings  on  the  telegrams  as  they  came  in,  was  sick  and  had  to  go  home, 
and  the  editor  had  to  do  the  proof  reading.  Lo  and  behold,  when  he 
came  to  this  sermon,  he  recognized  it  as  a  pagiarism,  and  said:  "Send 
it  to  the  composition  room,  knock  it  down  and  set  it  up  in  half  columns." 
The  next  day  it  appeared  in  half  columns  as  an  "original  sermon"  by  our 
dear  friend,  and  next  to  it  in  parallel  column  the  same  identical  sermon 
as  preached  by  one  of  the  great  ministers  of  America  who  had  been 
dead  for  about  twenty  years.  Of  course  his  associates  tried  him  and 
then  found  other  fields  for  his  labors. 

I  am  indeed  thankful  for  our  meeting  here  today  and  all  that  has 
happened. 

An  anthem,  "The  Almighty  (Great  Jehovah)" — (by  Schubert), 
soprano  solo  by  Margaret  Stewart  Hewlett,  was  sung  by  the  Singing 
Mothers. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Andrew  Jenson,  Assis- 
tant Church  Historian. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday  morning,  October  7. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


45 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Saturday,  October  7,  1939. 
Conference  reconvened  at  ten  o'clock. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  furnished  by  the  Branch  Agricultural 
College  Chorus,  of  Cedar  City,  Utah,  William  H.  Manning,  Director. 

The  Congregation  and  Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  What  is  Right." 

Elder  Albert  H.  Belliston,  President  of  the  Juab  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Branch  Agricultural  College  Chorus  sang  "Come  Ye  Blessed," 
(Scott-Deis). 

ELDER   REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not  know  when  I  ever  enjoyed  the 
first  day  of  Conference  as  I  did  yesterday.  Every  word  that  was  spoken 
was,  in  my  opinion,  inspired  by  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  I  have 
heard  a  number  of  people  who  have  come  into  my  office  since  yesterday's 
meetings  express  the  opinion  that  I  have  just  expressed  to  you  now. 
These  Conferences  are  only  known  as  such  by  the  people  who  know  the 
history  of  our  Church.  There  is  no  other  organization  that  I  know  of 
that  has  gatherings  of  such  a  percentage  of  the  people  as  does  the 
Mormon  Church  in  these  General  Conferences. 

THE  WORLD  WAR  AND  ITS  DEBT 

I  hope  that  the  wars  that  are  now  taking  the  lives  of  so  many 
people  will  cease  and  not  grow  in  any  way,  shape,  or  form  to  widen 
the  scope  of  those  involved  in  them.  I  have  prayed  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  that  nothing  would  happen  that  America  should  become  involved 
and  take  a  part  in  this  wicked  war.  We  were  involved,  at  least  we 
accepted  such  involvement,  during  the  great  World  War.  It  left  an 
indebtedness  that  has  been  a  burden  on  the  taxpayers  of  America,, and  I 
am  fearful  now,  that  the  increase  in  indebtedness  that  has  been  made 
since  our  indebtedness  was  reduced  from  $26,000,000,000  to  $16,000.- 
000,000  will  far  exceed  the  original  amount  I  have  just  named.  In  fact, 
we  are  past  it  now  and  I  see  no  immediate  change  for  the  better.  I 
know  some  people  will  say.  well,  what  is  $40,000,000,000  to  this  great 
country?  I  think  perhaps  I  could  explain  it  so  that  you  might  have  at 
least  some  idea  of  what  really  means.  Supposing  there  were  some 
unknown  power  who  decided  that  the  minute  the  Savior  was  born  he 
would  deposit  $40.00  in  some  known  receptacle,  and  if  he  had  continued 
making  similar  deposits  every  minute  since  the  Savior  was  born  down 
to  the  year  1933,  he  would  have  had  just  $40,000,000,000.  So  you  can 
see  what  it  means.    I  am  very  thankful  indeed  that  our  people,  our 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Day 

Church  are  avoiding  obligations  that  they  cannot  meet.  I  thank  the 
Lord  that  the  Church  stands  today  with  no  obligation  whatever  and 
that  it  is  perfectly  able  to  take  care  of  all  demands  made  upon  it. 
I  have  thought  sometimes  that  it  is  about  the  only  institution  that  stands 
in  that  position. 

PRESIDENT  BRIGHAM  YOUNG'S  STATEMENT  ABOUT  RELIGION 

Our  religion  embraces  ever}'  truth  pertaining  to  mortal  life — there 
is  nothing  outside  of  the  pale  of  it.  It  matters  not  what  the  subject  be,  if 
it  tends  to  improve  the  mind,  exalt  the  feelings,  and  enlarge  the  capacity. 
The  truth  that  is  in  all  arts  and  sciences  forms  a  part  of  our  religion. 
Faith  is  no  more  a  part  of  it  than  any  other  true  principle  of  philosophy. 
Were  I  to  give  you  a  lecture  today  upon  farming,  would  I  be  speaking 
upon  a  matter  that  transcends  the  bounds  of  our  religion?  Agriculture 
is  a  part  of  it  as  well  as  any  other  truth.  Were  I  to  lecture  on  business 
principles  of  any  kind,  our  religion  embraces  them,  and  what  it  does  not 
circumscribe,  it  would  be  well  for  us  to  dispense  with  once  and  forever. 

That  is  a  statement  that  was  made  by  President  Brigham  Young. 
I  read  it  from  the  book,  "The  Man  and  His  Work,"  page  211,  and  I 
thought  when  I  first  read  it,  how  well  it  would  apply  not  only  to  our 
own  people,  but  to  the  people  of  the  world.  I  wanted  to  say  that  much 
upon  that  subject. 

A  WRITER'S  OPINION  OF  PRESENT  CONDITIONS 

Edward  Nelson  Dingley,  in  his  book,  "Unto  The  Hills,"  makes  this 
statement : 

Never  before  since  human  thought  appeared,  have  the  problems  for 
individual,  for  society  and  for  the  Nation  seemed  more  tremendous  than 
now.  It  is  common-place  to  say  that  there  is  seething  unrest,  doubt  of 
the  sanctions  of  religion,  a  suspicion  that  something  is  going  to  happen 
to  destroy  our  so-called  civilization  and  our  government.  Swiftly  moving 
events  appear  to  challenge  existing  institutions — social,  economic  and  re- 
ligious. There  is  mingled  dread  and  hope.  Are  the  institutions,  religious 
as  well  as  political,  sufficiently  strong  to  stand  the  test  of  the  coming 
years?    Or  is  there  to  be  a  crash,  a  groping  in  the  dark  and  a  new  world? 

CONDITIONS  FOLLOWING  WAR 

That  is  well  said,  and  the  wars  that  are  taking  place  now  take  place 
because  of  the  greed  of  some  men  for  power.  Thousands  and  thousands 
of  unknown  men  will  be  slaughtered,  leaving  homes  without  a  head,  chil- 
dren unprovided  for,  and  no  foreign  country  will  ever  be  able  to 
care  for  the  dependents.  They  never  have  in  the  past  wars.  America 
has  tried  it  to  a  limited  extent,  aye,  more  than  any  other  nation  could 
think  of,  but  the  world  is  in  an  unsettled  condition.  I  pray  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  that  conditions  may  right  themselves  and  this  wicked  war  shall 
come  to  an  end  quickly. 


ELDER  CARL  F.  EYRING 


47 


BLESSINGS  OF  GOD  HAVE  BEEN  WITH  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

I  feel  that  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father  have  been  richly 
and  abundantly  given  to  his  people.  I  know  I  utter  your  feelings  when 
I  say  what  I  have  in  my  heart  to  say.  May  the  Lord  bless  the  Presidency 
of  this  Church ;  give  them  wisdom  and  judgment  to  meet  every  require- 
ment and  fulfil  the  same  acceptably  to  him.  And  I  know  that  the  Mormon 
people  everywhere  feel  in  their  very  souls  that  the  Presidency  of  this 
Church  are  giving  the  best  advice  and  instruction  that  mortal  man  can 
give.  May  the  Church  as  a  whole  realize  the  position  that  they  now 
hold,  where  no  evil  power  is  driving  and  mobbing  them,  as  was  the 
case  in  the  beginning.  I  think  the  devil  thought  then  that  if  he  could 
destroy  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  Church  would  fail;  that  if  he 
destroyed  the  homes  and  brought  about  the  driving  of  the  people  into  an 
unknown  part  of  this  country,  they  would  soon  fade  away  and  people 
would  abandon  the  Church.  How  mistaken  he  was.  God  has  blessed 
his  people.  He  has  qualified  and  particularly  blessed  every  president  of 
this  Church — peculiarly  qualified  him,  I  might  say — for  the  period  in 
which  he  has  served. 

They  are  loyal  to  the  country;  loyal  to  the  Church,  and  no  matter 
what  happens,  they  are  loyal  to  our  Heavenly  Father.  Peace  and  God's 
blessings  be  with  you,  I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CARL  F.  EYRING 

Former  President  of  the  New  England  Mission 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters :  First,  I  wish  to  take  the  oppor- 
tunity of  expressing  to  my  brethren  my  appreciation  for  the  opportuni- 
ties that  came  to  me  while  presiding  over  the  New  England  Mission 
for  two  years.  That  call  to  service  has  turned  out  ,to  be  one  of  the 
finest  experiences  in  my  life — and  I  consider  that  I  have  had  many 
and  varied  experiences  in  this  great  Church. 

Sister  Eyring  and  I  wish  to  express  special  appreciation  for  the 
service  rendered  the  Mission,  first  by  Elder  Widtsoe  and  Sister  Widtsoe. 
then  by  President  and  Sister  Clawson,  and  finally  by  Elder  Ballard 
and  Sister  Ballard.  We  shall  always  cherish  as  one  of  our  finest  re- 
membrances those  last  two  weeks  which  we  had  the  privilege  of  spending 
with  Brother  Ballard.  He  brought  to  our  Mission  a  great  message. 
Our  missionaries  will  not  forget  the  powerful  addresses  which  he  gave 
us,  especially  at  the  birthplace  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  The  memory  of 
him  is  still  with  us;  his  power  in  the  Church  we  still. feel.  We  praise 
God  that  his  great  Church  can  produce  men  such  as  Elder  Ballard. 

As  I  have  traveled  over  New  England,  I  have  come  to  realize 
why  it  was  possible  for  the  leaders  of  the  Church  and  their  followers 
to  establish  communities  in  this  western  land.  One  has  but  to  realize 
that  the  soil  is  very  shallow  in  New  England,  that  there  are  many  forests 
to  be  cleared,  and  that  for  two  hundred  years  the  New  Englanders  were 
pioneering  their  "hard"  country,  to  realize  that  their  sons  and  daughters. 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Day 

out  of  this  background,  would  be  able  to  pioneer  in  this  western  "waste" 
country  and  do  a  fine  job  of  it.  In  the  great  Connecticut  River  Valley, 
four  of  the  presidents  of  our  Church  were  born.  One  hundred  years 
ago  the  people  of  New  England  were  either  leaving  their  farms  for  the 
West  or  going  to  mill  towns.  Many  that  set  their  faces  toward  the 
West  joined  the  Church  and  came  to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains.  And 
here  in  the  West  we  have  created  another  New  England — at  least  we 
were  cherishing  here  much  that  was  created  and  built  in  New  England. 

I  am  grateful  that  I  have  the  privilege  now  of  returning  home 
to  my  position  at  the  Brigham  Young  University.  From  boyhood  I  have 
grown  up  in  the  school  system  of  the  Church.  I  should  like  to  bear 
testimony  that  that  system  has  done  much  for  the  youth  and  the  leaders 
of  this  Church.  I  am  grateful  that  I  am  considered  worthy  to  be  a  part  of 
the  Brigham  Young  University.  I  hope  and  pray  that  the  Lord  will  give  me 
the  needed  inspiration  so  that  I  may  teach  my  students  that  the  Gospel 
has  truly  been  restored ;  that  there  is  no  ideology  on  the  earth  that  can 
save  men  except  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  truly  believe  in  the  first  principles  of  the  Gospel.  One  must  have 
more  than  just  abstract  faith.  One  must  have  faith  in  something.  Many 
people  have  faith  in  the  principle  that  might  makes  right.  But  we  claim 
to  have  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  claim  that  through  con- 
tinuous repentance  our  poor  ways  of  living  may  be  turned  into  an  im- 
proved newness  of  life.  Through  redemption  the  Lord  and  Master  made 
it  possible  for  all  of  us  to  reach  heaven.  This  is  not  our  special  message 
to  the  world — our  message,  as  Elder  Ballard  so  forcibly  instructed  us, 
is  the  declaration  of  the  requirements  needed  to  reach  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  our  Father.  We,  who  have  started  on  the  journey  by 
accepting  these  requirements,  must  not  say  to  ourselves  as  the  people 
did  in  the  days  of  Jesus,  "Are  we  not  the  children  of  Abraham  ?"  We 
must  realize  that  it  takes  more  than  the  "original"  faith  in  Jesus  and  the 
"original"  repentance  and  the  "original"  baptism  and  the  "original" 
laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  To  live  up  to  our 
possibilities,  we  must  have  an  enduring  faith  in  Jesus  and  his  way  of 
life ;  an  abiding  faith  that  he  brought  to  the  world  the  ideology  that 
will  bring  peace ;  a  steadfast  confidence  that  we  can  create  a  newness 
of  life  after  his  pattern  through  daily  repentance ;  a  dynamic  courage 
and  faith  which,  when  we  have  gone  into  the  waters  of  baptism  and 
have  thus  shown  to  our  f  ellowmen  that  we  propose  to  become  ideal  mem- 
bers of  this  Church,  will  compel  us  to  live,  day  after  day,  so  that  we 
might  expect  the  companionship  of  the  Holy  Ghost — the  privilege  of 
those  who  are.  truly  candidates  for  the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  Father. 

Bless  this  people,  our  Father,  and  guide  the  young  people  so  that 
they  may  be  true  to  the  faith  is  my  prayer.  Amen. 


ELDER  W.  FRANCIS  BAILEY 


49 


ELDER  W.  FRANCIS  BAILEY 

Former  President  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  The  few  minutes  that  I  occupy  this  morn- 
ing I  trust  that  I  shall  be  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  bringing 
to  this  splendid  congregation  a  report  on  the  mission  activities  in  the 
Hawaiian  Islands. 

It  is  indeed  a  privilege  to  bring  to  you  the  greetings  of  the  Saints 
and  of  the  missionaries  laboring  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  and  to  be  here 
to  hear  the  testimonies  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church  who  to  me  are 
indeed  real  servants  inspired  of  the  Lord  and  who  radiate  through  all 
the  spirit  of  kindness  and  great  wisdom. 

It  has  been  a  great  blessing  and  a  joy  to  the  people  of  the  Hawaiian 
Islands  to  have  frequent  visits  from  the  Authorities  and  leaders  of  the 
Church,  and  the  Saints,  and  all  who  have  been  there  have  been  greatly 
blessed  because  of  their  visits  and  the  many  wonderful  messages  which 
they  have  left  in  that  land. 

To  gaze  into  the  countenances  of  this  large  congregation  of  Saints 
who  are  blessed  with  responsive  hearts  to  things  godly,  lends  inspiration 
and  testifies  to  me  that  the  works,  the  designs,  and  the  purposes  of  God 
cannot  be  frustrated.  Just  so  long  as  he  has  such  a  large  army  of 
righteous  members  of  the  Church  upon  whom  he  can  rely  to  carry  the 
responsibilities  of  this  work,  his  words  will  all  be  fulfilled  as  he  has 
predicted. 

Opportunities  to  serve  in  the  Church  and  live  the  Gospel  are  always 
before  us.  Unexpected  responsibilities  frequently  come  and  so  it  is 
imperative  that  we  ever  keep  bright  the  armor  of  righteousness,  and  that 
we  gain  an  understanding  of  truth  and  of  faith  in  the  mission  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet. 

Several  years  as  a  missionary  among  the  descendants  of  Lehi,  who 
were  hidden  away  in  the  islands  of  the  sea,  have  brought  to  me  an 
understanding  that  through  faith  and  contact  with  truth  the  shades  of 
darkness  could  be  banished  and  the  light  of  God  can  be  let  in,  and  as 
this  light  comes  in  the  promises  of  God  are  fulfilled  and  the  windows 
of  heaven  are  opened  and  rich  blessings  are  poured  down  upon  the 
heads  of  those  who  serve  the  Lord. 

During  the  intervening  seventeen  years  between  my  first  mission 
and  my  recent  labors  in  the  islands,  great  growth  has  been  noted  in  the 
Church  work.  A  temple,  though  not  operating  daily,  is  playing  an 
important  part  in  bringing  blessings  into  the  lives  of  the  people. 
Through  the  able  assistance  of  missionaries  the  president  of  the  temple  is 
daily  bringing  the  message  of  life  and  salvation  to  many  tourists  and 
strangers  who  visit  the  beautiful  temple  and  the  grounds  and  then 
remain  to  hear  the  message  which  brings  promise  of  life  and  salvation 
to  all. 

The  Oahu  Stake,  daily  growing  in  efficiency,  is  also  fulfilling  its 
purpose  and  bringing  rich  experiences  into  the  lives  of  its  members. 
■\Vith  one-half  of  the  population  of  the  islands  residing  on  the  island 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

of  Oahu,  the  missionary  work  is  being  continued  there,  and  in  cooperation 
with  the  stake  missionary  force  we  are  working  together  under  the  direc- 
tion of  the  Hawaiian  Mission. 

The  two  missions,  the  Japanese  and  the  Hawaiian,  as  is  the  case 
at  present,  and  a  stake,  all  laboring  together  in  one  area  may  be  a 
somewhat  unusual  situation,  but  these  three  organizations  are  working 
harmoniously  together  and  are  doing  very  effective  work. 

Several  large  Sunday  Schools  and  Primaries  organized  among  the 
Japanese  people  evidence  the  splendid  work  which  is  being  done  under 
the  direction  of  the  mission  president  and  the  missionaries. 

In  the  Hawaiian  Mission  there  are  eight  district  and  forty-six  or- 
ganized branches.  These  are  all  efficiently  operated  by  local  Saints, 
and  all  the  auxiliaries  are  functioning  where  sufficient  membership  will 
permit.  The  Saints  are  well  spiritually,  and  their  daily  lives  are  testifying 
to  the  efficacy  of  Mormonism.  The  leavening  influence  of  their  righteous 
living  is  being  recognized  and  manifested  in  the  very  kindly  and  material 
interest  shown  by  the  men  of  prominence  in  the  Islands.  Assistance 
in  obtaining  chapel  sites,  in  the  erection  of  buildings,  and  in  other  ways 
is  most  generously  given.  These  men  are  aware  that  to  the  man  or 
woman  who  lives  and  believes  Mormon  teachings  there  comes  greater 
understanding  of  and  ability  to  meet  life's  problems.  Many  are  reading 
the  books  of  the  Church  and  have,  upon  frequent  occasions,  expressed 
appreciation  for  the  good  work  being  done  by  the  members  of  the 
Church. 

A  number  of  missionaries  have  returned  to  the  Islands  and  other 
members  of  the  Church  have  gone  to  make  their  homes  there,  and  these 
are  contributing  much  to  the  Church  organizations  in  this  land  and  be- 
cause of  their  faithful  service  wholesome  reactions  are  coming  among 
non-members  of  the  Church. 

I  wish  to  express  appreciation  and  compliment  the  parents  and 
families  of  missionaries  who  have  labored  and  are  laboring  in  the 
Hawaiian  Islands.  Hawaii  has  been  greatly  blessed  by  their  presence 
and  work.  They  have  honored  their  parents  and  have  brought  great 
blessings  unto  themselves. 

My  testimony  has  been  greatly  strengthened  by  my  sojourn  among 
this  wonderful  people,  by  seeing  their  faith,  and  I  realized  as  I  went 
throughout  the  various  islands  that  there  still  resides  in  that  land 
the  spirit  of  that  great  missionary,  George  Q.  Cannon,  and  of  those  who 
followed  after  him,  and  the  spirit  of  those  men  who  performed  such 
magnificent  work  is  directing  and  guiding  the  labors  in  that  land. 

My  testimony  is  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  his  Son  made 
possible  eternal  exaltation,  and  that  through  Joseph  Smith  truth  was 
again  restored  to  the  earth,  and  the  path  of  man  was  lighted  in  his  search 
for  joy  and  happiness.  I  praise  the  Lord  with  a  thankful  heart  for  the 
many  blessings  he  has  given  unto  my  family  and  me  and  for  the  privilege 
which  came  to  us  of  going  into  the  mission  field.  I  hope  and  trust  that 
I  shall  be  worthy  of  the  responsibilties  which  may  come.  I  have  a 
testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  Gospel,  and  I  fully  realize  that  the 


ELDER  GUSTIVE  O.  LARSON 


51 


Lord  is  merciful  and  gracious  unto  those  who  fear  him,  and  delights  to 
honor  those  who  worship  him  in  truth  and  righteousness  unto  the 
end.   May  we  prove  faithful  unto  the  end,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 

The  College  Chorus  sang  "My  Dream  is  of  an  Island  Place," 
(Noble  Cain). 

ELDER  GUSTIVE  O.  LARSON 

Former  President  of  the  Swedish  Mission 

It  is  good  to  be  home  again  in  Zion  and  participate  in  another  General 
Conference.  It  is  good  also  to  meet  again  all  those  fine  missionaries 
with  whom  it  was  our  privilege  to  labor  in  Sweden.  I  should  like  to 
say  that  never  before  have  Sister  Larson  and  I  had  the  privilege  of 
laboring  with  such  a  choice  group  of  young  men  and  women  as  we  had 
there  under  our  direction.  Never  shall  I  expect  to  find  better  loyalty 
and  devotion  to  the  work  than  was  generally  exhibited  by  these  young 
people.  Also,  I  would  like  to  say  that  our  appreciation  for  the  leadership 
of  our  Church  has  never  reached  such  heights  as  in  our  association 
with  those  leaders  with  whom  we  had  the  opportunity  of  associating 
while  in  Europe.  May  I  add  also  that  I  am  happy  to  be  assigned 
now  to  have  supervision  of  the  Institute  of  Religion  in  Cedar  City 
where  I  shall  have  opportunity  for  association  with  many  of  these  young 
people  who  are  singing  in  the  choir  today,  representing  Cedar  City  and 
the  Branch  Agricultural  College.  I  was  more  or  less  associated  with 
the  Branch  College  for  ten  years  prior  to  our  assignment  to  Sweden, 
and  I  know  of  the  desire  on  the  part  of  the  faculty  there  to  educate 
not  only  the  hand  and  the  head,  but  also  the  heart  of  these  young 
people.  They  are  keenly  alive  to  the  need  today  for  spiritual  development. 

Under  normal  conditions  it  is  a  privilege  to  live  in  Sweden.  The 
wonderful  landscape  of  that  country  is  only  exceeded  by  the  wholesome 
generosity  of  those  progressive  people.  It  is  true  that  they  cannot  use 
the  expression  "The  biggest  in  the  world,"  as  often  as  they  good- 
naturedly  accuse  us  of  doing,  but  their  inventiveness  has  contributed 
much  to  the  world's  progress.  Many  things  which  America  produces 
today  in  boasted  quantities  had  their  origin  over  there. 

But  there  is  no  greatness  in  things;  true  greatness  .centers  in 
personalities  and  in  the  proper  use  of  things.  In  the  application  of  the 
inventions  of  the  past  century  to  human  good,  and  in  organization  for 
social  welfare,  we  in  America  can  yet  learn  many  things  from  our 
Scandinavian  friends.  In  their  care  of  the  poor  and  aged,  in  strict 
censorship  of  the  movies,  in  the  interest  of  their  youth,  in  their  silent 
traffic,  and  their  cooperatives,  and  particularly  today  in  socialized  medi- 
cine they  can  offer  us  much  food  for  thought  and  study. 

The  war  has,  of  course,  suddenly  interrupted  and  overshadowed 
the  things  that  engaged  our  serious  attention  in  Sweden  a  few  weeks 
ago.  But  with  the  hope  that  missionary  work  will  be  resumed  there 
upon  the  conclusion  of  the  war — God  grant  that  that  may  be  soon — I 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Dai] 

should  like  to  make  a  few  observations  relative  to  the  work  in  which  we 
have  been  engaged. 

We  have  made  some  progress  in  Sweden  during  the  time  we  have 
been  there.  Especially  in  the  breaking  down  of  prejudice  against  our 
people  and  in  the  making  of  friends  among  all  classes,  high  and  low, 
we  have  been  particularly  fortunate.  Never  before  has  the  Swedish 
press  responded  to  Mormonism  so  liberally  and  so  favorably.  The 
American  Harmony  Singers,  known  throughout  Sweden  as  a  Mormon 
Missionary  Chorus,  have  appeared  almost  each  month  on  the  national 
radio  broadcast  with  their  own  programs  since  last  winter  and  always 
they  have  left  the  radio  offices  with  an  invitation  to  come  again.  The 
American  Harmony  Singers  have  given  concerts  and  song  services  to 
which  thousands  have  been  attracted  who  have  heard  the  message  of 
the  Gospel.  Everywhere  the  missionaries  have  reported  that  because 
of  the  friendship-creating  activities  of  this  chorus,  and  such  activities 
as  basketball,  doors  are  being  opened  to  them  that  were  never  open 
before.  I  mention  basketball  because  I  understand  there  are  those  who 
do  not  fully  appreciate  the  use  of  sports,  and  their  propriety,  in  mission- 
ary service,  but  I  am  sure  that  if  you  could  be  close  to  the  problem  as 
we  were,  on  the  front  lines,  and  could  feel  the  friendship  that  was 
created,  you  would  feel  differently  about  it.  Just  one  instance:  two 
missionaries  were  sent  into  a  city  in  northern  Sweden  from  which  the 
Mormons  were  driven  twenty-five  years  ago.  They  went  there  at  the 
request  of  the  police  who  wanted  them  to  train  a  basketball  team.  These 
young  men  not  only  trained  the  police  basketball  team,  but  four  or  five 
other  teams  in  that  city.  Whenever  they  played  their  tournaments  the 
name  of  "Mormon"  blazed  out  favorably  in  the  headlines.  Last  Spring 
I  received  a  letter  from  the  chairman  of  a  large  recreational  center  in 
Sweden,  who  lives  in  that  city,  thanking  me  for  having  stationed  mis- 
sionaries there,  and  asking  us  to  continue  them  there,  not  only  because 
they  were  training  basketball  teams,  but  because  they  were  having 
such  a  wholesome  influence  on  the  Swedish  youth.  That  is  what  I  mean 
when  I  shall  refer  later  to  "activity"  in  missionary  service. 

In  spite  of  all  these  instances  of  progress  that  we  can  name  from 
various  missions,  the  return  on  our  expenditures,  and  our  efforts  in 
Europe  have  not  been  altogether  satisfactory.  If  we  measure  results 
in  terms  of  effect  upon  the  missionary  himself,  we  have  cause  to  con- 
gratulate ourselves  for  it  is  a  wonderful  experience  for  them,  and  no 
mission  president  receives  greater  joy  than  he  does  through  seeing  these 
young  men  and  young  women  grow  under  responsibility.  But  if  we 
measure  in  terms  of  effective  preaching  of  the  Gospel  as  reflected  in 
increased  membership,  tben  there  is  much  room  for  improvement. 

One  avenue  through  which  I  feel  that  we  can  improve  a  good  deal 
is  to  more  nearly  adapt  our  missionary  methods  to  modern  conditions. 
For  instance,  the  Sweden  of  today  is  not  the  Sweden  of  seventy-five 
years  ago  when  all  Europeans  were  looking  wistfully  toward  America  as 
the  land  of  promise.  In  those  days  our  missionary  methods  applied 
admirably  to  conditions.    The  call  to  Zion  opened  up  the  flood-gates  of 


ELDER  GU STIVE  O.  LARSON 


emigration  to  Zion  in  Utah.  Today,  with  the  gates  of  emigration  closed, 
we  must  adjust  our  methods  to  helping  them  live  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  there.  True,  our  task  is  still  to  call  men  out  of  "Babylon"  to 
"Zion,"  but  instead  of  a  change  of  residence  today  it  means  a  change 
of  life  in  their  own  communities.  In  other  words,  we  should  try  to  help 
them,  in  a  sense,  to  build  Zion  in  their  own  land,  and  this,  it  would  seem 
to  me,  calls  for,  if  not  less  preaching,  at  least  more  "activity." 

As  we  have  continued  preaching  the  restored  Gospel  in  Sweden,  we 
have  constantly  pointed  to  its  expression  in  the  building  of  Zion  in  the 
tops  of  the  mountains.  We  have  never  failed  to  remind  our  listeners  that 
their  own  countrymen  have  helped  in  this  important  work,  but  while 
we  have  been  pointing  to  the  Church  in  Utah  as  a  practical  application 
of  the  Gospel,  the  Swede  has  been  asking  us,  "yes,  but  what  about  its 
practical  application  here  in  Sweden?"  On  every  side  they  see  other 
churches  contributing  to  the  special  good  through  community  projects, 
but  we,  aside  from  our  preaching  and  our  limited  group  activities,  have 
been  too  exclusive.  There  is  need  for  some  element,  in  addition  to 
our  preaching,  that  will  vitalize  our  message,  just  as  the  call  to  Zion 
vitalized  the  message  of  the  missionaries  some  seventy-five  or  fifty 
years  ago.  If  we  could  participate,  for  instance,  in  the  youth  movement 
of  Sweden,  by  establishing  Scout  camps  under  M.  I.  A.  direction  and 
under  the  leadership  of  some  of  our  splendid  Scout  missionaries ;  or  if 
we  could  establish  children's  summer  camps  under  direction  of  the 
Primary,  we  would  then  be  making  a  place  for  us  in  the  community  life 
of  Sweden.  The  M.  I.  A.  has  already  demonstrated  its  pulling  power  on 
youth  over  there  by  means  of  its  sports  activities,  its  folk  dancing,  and 
its  music,  and  it  can  continue,  and  do  an  even  better  job,  if  it  only  has 
the  proper  facilities  for  carrying  on  its  program. 

The  war  has  made  us  doubly  appreciative  of  the  security  of  our 
American  homes,  and  we  should  demonstrate  our  appreciation  through 
closer  obedience  to  the  laws  of  God  than  ever  before.  In  Europe  today, 
just  as  in  the  last  war,  all  fighting  nations  are  claiming  that  God  is  on 
their  side  and  undoubtedly  many  are  sincere  in  both  camps.  But 
there  is  a  question  of  much  deeper  significance  than  that.  During  the 
dark  days  of  the  Civil  War  when  everything  looked  hopeless  for  the 
Union,  a  friend  came  to  President  Lincoln  and  asked,  "Mr.  Lincoln, 
do  you  believe  that  God  is  really  on  our  side  in  this  war  ?"  The  President 
replied,  "I  am  not  concerned  whether  God  is  on  our  side  or  not.  What 
I  am  concerned  about  is,  are  we  on  the  side  of  God?" 

Our  Heavenly  Father  does  not  take  sides  arbitrarily  in  our  human 
conflicts.  It  is  up  to  us  in  our  blundering  strife  to  decide  whether  we 
make  him  our  ally  or  not.  And  the  test  of  allegiance  is  simple  enough. 
There  is  no  road  to  God  which  does  not  lead  through  the  heart  of  man. 
Our  Heavenly  Father  does  not  need  our  personal  aid.  We  cannot  feed 
and  clothe  him;  we  cannot  minister  to  his  wants  or  give  him  encour- 
agement. But  millions  of  his  sons  and  daughters  here  on  earth  need 
just  these  things,  and  he  has  said  to  us,  "Inasmuch  as  ye  do  it  unto 
the  least  of  these,  my  brethren,  ye  do  it  unto  me."   The  test  of  whether 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

we  are  on  the  side  of  God  or  not  is  whether  we  are  ministering  to  relief 
from  human  suffering  and  adding  to  human  happiness.  If  we  are 
contributing  in  the  least  to  human  misery  and  want  we  are  fighting 
against  God.  This  is  true  of  individuals  just  as  it  is  of  nations — and 
it  seems  to  me  it  is  proper  that  we  should  analyze  ourselves  now  more 
than  ever  before  to  determine  the  direction  of  our  allegiance. 

Men  take  the  pure  ideals  of  their  souls 

And  lock  them  fast  away, 
And  never  dream  that  things  so  beautiful 

Are  fit  for  every  day ! 
So  counterfeits  pass  current  in  their  lives. 

And  stones  they  use  for  bread. 
And  starvingly  and  fearfully  they  walk 

Through  life  among  the  dead, 
Though  never  yet  was  pure  ideal 

Too  fair  for  them  to  make  their  Real. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  reality.  It  has  been  restored  to  us 
in  our  day  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  It  is  our  privilege  and 
our  responsibility  to  carry  its  message  as  widely  as  possible.  It  is  in  the 
discharge  of  this  responsibility,  if  at  all,  that  we  can  consider  ourselves 
a  chosen  people.  Let  us  try  to  make  the  ideals  of  the  restored  Gospel 
a  little  more  nearly  the  realities  of  our  everyday  experience,  and  let  us 
not  lose  faith  in  the  mercy  and  the  justice  of  an  overruling  power. 

A  few  years  ago  the  giant  zeppelin,  "Akron,"  was  moored  in  San 
Diego.  It  was  about  to  leave  for  San  Francisco  when  a  serious  accident 
occurred.  The  men  who  were  holding  the  ropes  were  awaiting  the 
signal  to  let  go  when  a  sudden  gust  of  wind  tore  the  Akron  from  its 
moorings  and  swung  them  from  their  feet.  As  the  zeppelin  shot  upward, 
most  of  them  dropped  without  accident,  but  some  of  them  were  not  able 
to  let  go  and  were  carried  into  the  air.  One  young  man  by  the  name  of 
Bud  Cowart  held  on  to  the  rope.  He  saw  two  of  his  companions  drop 
to  their  death  but  he  hung  on.  As  the  ship  soared  above  the  city  into 
the  clouds,  all  hope  of  rescue  from  earth  disappeared.  If  help  was  to 
come  to  him  now,  it  must  come  from  above.  Bud  Cowart  did  not  know 
what  they  were  doing  on  the  Akron  but  he  believed  that  they  were  aware 
of  his  presence  and  that  they  were  deeply  concerned  about  him,  and  in 
that  faith  he  hung  on.  The  zeppelin  swung  above  the  clouds,  and  for 
a  seemingly  endless  hour  he  hung  at  the  end  of  his  rope,  and  then  he 
felt  a  new  movement ;  something  was  drawing  the  rope  upward.  Gradu- 
ally he  neared  that  huge  ship,  until  at  last  it  blotted  out  the  sun.  Then 
he  felt  strong  arms  take  hold  of  him  and  pull  him  in.  They  had  been 
mindful  of  him  on  the  Akron  and  his  faith  was  vindicated  in  a  saving 
power  from  above. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  in  these  trying  times  when  life's  ship  seems 
to  be  rocking  dangerously,  and  threatens  to  break  from  its  mooring,  may 
we  continue  to  hold  on  with  faith  in  a  God  of  mercy  and  justice.  But 
we  cannot  just  wait  for  him  to  rescue  us.  We  must  do  something 
toward  working  out  our  own  salvation.    May  we  so  organize  our  lives 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


55 


and  our  efforts  that  we  make  a  glorious  partnership  with  him,  and  in 
double  strength  go  forward  in  our  attack  upon  not  only  our  problems 
but  his,  is  my  humble  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  wonder  if  your  hearts  have  been  as  much  touched  with  this  fine 
message  of  my  missionary  companion  from  Sweden,  President  Gustive 
O.  Larson,  as  my  heart  has  been  touched.  His  clear,  fine  voice  has 
expressed  the  power  and  glory  and  beauty  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  it  is  being  preached  in  the  European  Mission. 

My  patriotism  has  been  stirred  today,  as  it  was  stirred  yesterday. 
I  have  in  my  veins  the  blood  of  America  for  ten  generations.  That 
patriotic  Gospel  message  delivered  by  President  Grant  for  the  First 
Presidency,  and  those  patriotic  appeals  of  President  Clark,  followed  by 
the  ringing  voices  of  the  Singing  Mothers,  with  a  granddaughter  of 
President  Brigham  Young  singing  in  her  clear  voice  the  lead  of  that 
thrilling  appeal,  "God  Bless  America" — these  combined  to  create  in  this 
historic,  sacred  building  a  situation  most  dramatic. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  THE  MEMORY  OF  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

I  desire  to  add  a  word  or  two  to  what  President  Clark  said  about 
my  beloved  friend  and  intimate  associate,  Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard.  He  and 
I  have  sat  side  by  side  for  more  than  twenty  years  in  practically  all  of  the 
meetings  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  in  the  many 
meetings  of  the  General  Superintendency  and  the  General  Board  of  the 
Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  of  the  Church.  I  have 
listened  to  the  melody  of  his  remarkable  voice  as  by  my  side  he  has  sung 
so  sweetly  and  effectively  these  songs  of  Zion.  I  have  missed  him 
greatly.  I  have  longed  for  him  tenderly  as  you,  his  many  friends,  have 
done  also  in  this  Conference.  And  I  want  to  say,  as  did  President  Clark 
yesterday,  God  bless  and  sanctify  to  our  good  the  great  messages  of 
that  mighty  man  which  he  preached  and  sang  so  effectively  into  our  hearts 
and  into  our  souls  and  into  our  lives  during  these  many  years. 

STUDYING  AND  UNDERSTANDING  THE  SCRIPTURES  * 

I  desire  on  this  occasion  to  say  a  few  words  in  the  form  of  an 
appeal,  the  purpose  of  which  is  to  awaken  in  the  hearts  of  Latter-day 
Saints  an  increased  interest  in  reading,  studying,  learning  and  under- 
standing the  scriptures.  I  regard  it  as  important  for  all  of  us  to  read 
the  scriptures  more  frequently,  to  understand  the  scriptures  more  thor- 
oughly, and  to  live  more  accurately  in  accordance  with  the  high  ideals 
laid  down  therein. 

OPPORTUNITIES  FOR  RELIGIOUS  TRAINING 

For  the  purpose  of  teaching  the  Gospel  more  effectively  and  more 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Day 

thoroughly  than  it  seems  possible  to  teach  it  in  the  ordinary  religious 
services  and  in  the  sessions  of  the  Sunday  Schools,  the  young  people's 
organizations  and  other  institutions  usually  conducted  in  connection 
with  the  regular  church  work  and  activity,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
founded  the  School  of  the  Prophets ;  President  Brigham  Young  endowed 
and  established  the  Brigham  Young  College  at  Logan  and  the  Brigham 
Young  University  at  Provo ;  President  Anthon  H.  Lund  was  instru- 
mental in  organizing  Religion  Classes  throughout  the  Church,  and  during 
the  administrations  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  of  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  12  institutes  of  college  grade  and  101  seminaries  of  high  school 
grade  have  been  established.  In  these  institutes  and  seminaries  150 
educators  well  trained  in  the  teaching  of  the  Gospel  are  employed  to  give 
week-day  religious  education  to  our  young  people  who  are  doing  high 
school  and  college  work. 

All  of  this  has  been  done  to  give  the  people  of  the  Church  unusual 
opportunities  to  study  the  great  fundamentals  of  religion,  to  become 
acquainted  with  the  doctrines  of  the  holy  scriptures,  and  to  have  awakened 
in  them  a  desire  and  an  ambition  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  very 
highest  religious  ideals  and  standards.  These  and  many  other  efforts 
put  forth  by  the  Church  and  its  leaders  indicate  the  intensity  of  the  inter- 
est that  has  existed  in  the  Church  and  in  the  minds  of  its  leaders  in  the 
study,  understanding  and  practice  of  the  teachings  of  the  scriptures. 

THE  BIBLE  AS  A  TEACHER 

In  the  deed  of  trust  given  by  President  Brigham  Young  for  the 
Brigham  Young  University  are  these  words :  "The  Old  and  New  Testa- 
ments *  *  *  shall  be  read  and  their  doctrines  shall  be  inculcated."  In 
an  address  delivered  in  Salt  Lake  City  May  29,  1870,  he  states : 

The  doctrines  contained  in  the  Bible  will  lift  to  a  superior  condition 
all  who  observe  them ;  they  will  impart  to  them  knowledge,  wisdom  and 
charity,  will  fill  them  with  compassion  and  will  cause  them  to  feel  after 
the  wants  of  those  who  are  in  distress  or  in  painful  or  degraded  circum- 
stances. They  who  observe  the  precepts  contained  in  the  scriptures  will  be 
just  and  true,  virtuous  and  peaceable  at  home  and  abroad.  Follow  out 
the  doctrines  of  the  Bible  and  men  will  make  splendid  husbands,  women 
will  make  excellent  wives,  children  will  be  obedient,  families  will  be 
happy,  nations  will  be  wealthy  and  all  will  be  lifted  up  above  the  things 
of  this  life. 

In  the  Juvenile  Instructor  for  April,  1912,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  wrote : 

That  which  characterizes  above  all  else  the  inspiration  and  divinity 
of  the  scriptures  is  the  spirit  in  which  they  are  written  and  the  spiritual 
wealth  they  convey  to  those  who  faithfully  and  conscientiously  read 
them.  Our  attitude,  therefore,  toward  the  scriptures  should  be  in  harmony 
with  the  purposes  for  which  they  were  written.  They  were  intended  to 
enlarge  man's  spiritual  endowments  and  to  reveal  and  intensify  the  bond 
of  relationship  between  him  and  his  God.  To  be  appreciated,  the  Bible 
and  all  other  books  of  holy  writ  must  be  studied  by  those  who  are 
spiritually  inclined,  those  who  are  in  quest  of  spiritual  truths. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


57 


STATEMENTS  OF  SCHOLARS 

Many  years  ago  that  great  Biblical  scholar,  Professor  Richard  G. 
Moulton,  who  edited  and  who  prepared  the  introductions  and  the  notes 
for  The  Modern  Reader's  Bible,  said  of  the  scriptures : 

'We  have  done  almost  everything  that  is  possible  with  these  writings. 
We  have  overlaid  them,  clause  by  clause,  with  exhaustive  commentaries ; 
we  have  translated  them,  revised  the  translation,  and  quarreled  over  the 
revision;  we  have  discussed  authenticity  and  inspiration,  we  have  me- 
chanically divided  the  whole  into  chapters  and  verses,  and  sought  texts 
to  memorize  and  quote.  There  is  yet  one  thing  left  to  do  with  the  Bible ; 
simply  to  read  it. 

That  great  American  statesman  and  life-long  student  of  the  Bible, 
William  Jennings  Bryan,  said: 

My  father,  as  devout  a  man  as  ever  lived,  early  impressed  upon  my 
youthful  mind  the  value  of  the  teachings  of  Solomon.  He  would  call 
me  in  from  work  a  little  before  noon  and  read  and  comment  on  a  chapter 
in  Proverbs.  I  am  afraid  I  did  not  always  appreciate  the  priceless  wisdom 
of  the  book  from  which  he  read.  But  when  he  died,  just  after  I  reached 
my  twentieth  year,  I  recalled  his  interest  in  the  words  of  Solomon  and 
I  read  Proverbs  through  once  each  month  for  a  year.  I  so  fully  share 
the  high  estimate  that  he  placed  upon  Proverbs  that  I  have  lost  no 
opportunity  to  commend  them  to  young  men. 

It  has  been  said  that  it  is  not  what  we  eat  but  what  we  digest  that 
gives  us  physical  strength.  And  so  we  might  say,  it  is  not  what  we  read 
but  what  we  remember  and  what  we  apply  in  our  daily  lives  that  gives 
us  mental  power  and  spiritual  development.  This  important  element 
of  study  and  application  is  impressively  stated  by  that  great  poet  and 
philosopher,  John  Ruskin,  who  said : 

Everything  that  I  have  written,  every  greatness  that  has  been  in  any 
thought  of  mine,  whatever  I  have  done  in  my  life,  has  been  simply  due 
to  the  fact  that  when  I  was  a  child  my  mother  daily  read  with  me  a 
part  of  the  Bible  and  daily  made  me  learn  a  part  of  it  by  heart. 

METHODS  OF  STUDYING  THE  SCRIPTURES 

I  wonder  how  long  it  has  been  since  you  or  I  read  the  Book  of 
Proverbs.  And  when  we  did  read  those  wise  sayings  of  Solomon,  did 
we  do  so  merely  as  readers  or  did  we  do  so  as  students  with  pen  or 
pencil  in  hand  and  notebook  close  by  ? 

My  appeal,  therefore,  is  not  merely  for  a  greater  reading  of  the 
sacred  writings  but  for  a  more  careful  study  and  application  of  their 
teachings  and  for  learning  parts  of  them  by  heart.  A  real  student,  one 
who  is  reading  with  genuine  earnestness  for  the  purpose  of  actually  ac- 
quiring knowledge,  usually  has  at  hand  two  books,  one  from  which 
to  read  and  the  other  in  which  to  write.  He  does  his  reading  with  pen 
or  pencil  and  a  notebook  close  by,  and  in  the  book  he  makes  a  record  of 
those  items  which  he  regards  as  most  important,  those  he  desires  to 
remember  and  to  apply.  The  physical  act  of  making  the  note  helps  to 
impress  the  thought  upon  the  mind  of  the  reader.   Writing  makes  think- 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Dag 

ing  clearer.  Many  broadly  educated  men  and  women  owe  much  to  the 
habit  of  "reading  and  studying  with  a  pencil." 

Another  fundamental  I  would  like  to  impress  upon  your  minds 
anew  today  is  that  we  learn  to  do  by  doing,  we  learn  to  talk  by  talking, 
we  learn  to  write  by  writing,  we  learn  to  apply  by  applying,  we  achieve 
real  growth  and  development  by  earnest  and  effective  application. 

A  STUDY  OF  THE  SCRIPTURES  URGED 

I  urge  that  we  ourselves  learn  and  that  we  teach  our  children  to 
learn  thoroughly  important  quotations  from  the  scriptures  ,as  well  as  the 
important  stories,  morals  and  doctrines  therein  presented.  And  since  the 
Gospel  is  to  be  preached  to  all  the  people  in  all  the  world,  and  further,  since 
this  preaching  is  the  most  important  work  to  be  done  by  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  it  is  of  great  importance  that  we,  the 
members  of  the  Church,  prepare  ourselves  as  best  we  can  to  assist  with  this 
great  work ;  and  in  order  to  do  this  effectively  we  must  become  familiar 
with  the  language  of  holy  writ,  we  must  understand  it  accurately,  enjoy  its 
beauty  and  also  become  so  imbued  with  its  divine  inspiration  that  we 
shall  not  only  be  willing  but  we  shall  be  glad  to  do  our  very  best  to  live 
in  accordance  with  the  teachings  and  ideals  therein  contained. 

Educators,  including  our  beloved  Karl  G.  Maeser,  have  recom- 
mended that  an  hour  be  spent  at  the  dinner  table  when  parents  and  chil- 
dren might  discuss  together  the  sacred  scriptures.  At  such  a  time  an 
important  and  profitable  exercise  would  be  the  memorizing  of  important 
quotations.  By  thus  discussing  the  scriptures  and  by  learning  and  re- 
peating quotations,  the  young  folks  of  the  family  would  be  laying  a  well- 
nigh  perfect  foundation  for  doing  missionary  work  later. 

BENEFIT  OF  MEMORIZING  THE  SCRIPTURES 

What  an  excellent  and  valuable  accomplishment  it  would  be  if  all 
the  adult  members  of  the  Church  would,  during  the  next  six  months, 
learn  a  few  important  quotations  from  the  scriptures  and  teach  their 
children  to  learn  with  accuracy  the  same  quotations.  May  I,  on  this 
occasion,  suggest  as  examples  two  of  my  own  favorite  quotations  and 
add  a  little  comment  concerning  each  of  them.  These  are:  John  3rd 
chapter,  16th  verse,  and  Matthew  22nd  chapter,  37th  to  40th  verses. 

It  seems  to  me  that  all  who  desire  in  their  hearts  and  have  the 
ambition  in  their  souls  to  struggle  to  follow  the  unselfish  example  and 
teachings  of  Jesus  ought  to  know  thoroughly,  ought  to  be  able  to  quote 
accurately  and  to  remember  always  John  3:16: 

For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son, 
that  whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting 
life. 


And  now  that  other  quotation,  Matthew  22:37-40,  which  is  the 
M.  I.  A.  theme  for  the  whole  Church  for  the  season  1939-40; 


ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 


59 


Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all 
thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 
On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets. 

Since  nearly  two  thousand  years  have  passed  since  Jesus  came  to 
bring  peace  on  earth,  uttered  these  inspired  words  and  gave  the  world 
these  teachings,  and  further  since  at  this  very  moment  all  the  nations 
of  the  world  are  preparing  for  war  or  for  defense  at  a  previously 
unheard  of  cost  and  rate,  and  further  since  a  number  of  the  great  nations 
of  the  world  are  actually  at  war  and  are  carrying  on  a  conflict  in  accord- 
ance with  the  methods  of  the  savage  and  the  barbarian,  rather  than  to  be 
settling  their  differences  and  their  grievances  by  those  methods  of 
arbitration  and  mutual  understanding,  which  civilized  people  these  days 
are  trying  to  learn  and  to  apply, — I  say  because  of  all  these  conditions, 
there  is,  I  think,  no  topic  more  deserving  of  special  attention,  considera- 
tion and  understanding,  during  these  terrible  days  of  strife  and  warfare, 
than  a  study  of  the  scriptures  and  in  particular  that  portion  of  holy 
writ  which  has  to  do  with  the  life  and  labors  and  teachings  and  example 
of  Him  who  is  called  the  Prince  of  Peace,  of  Him  who  is  our  Lord 
and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 

LOVE  NECESSARY  TO  WORLD  PEACE 

And  now  let  me  conclude  with  emphasis  on  the  importance  of 
understanding  and  applying  these  words : 

Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all 
thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 

With  love  of  this  kind  in  all  human  hearts  such  destructive  forces 
as  hate  and  prejudice,  poverty  and  beggary,  crime  and  war,  would  be 
everywhere  greatly  diminished  if  not  completely  eliminated  from  the 
world.  Love  for  our  Heavenly  Father  and  for  one  another,  as  stated 
in  the  words  of  the  Master  himself,  is  the  greatest  and  most  fundamental 
element  of  religion. 

May  the  day  be  hastened  when  all  will  aim  to  read,  understand  and 
live  in  conformity  with  the  mighty  and  important  elements  of  religion 
as  these  are  presented  in  the  sacred  scriptures,  so  that  love  and  peace, 
charity  and  good  will,  may  be  found  everywhere  in  the  world,  I  humbly 
pray. 

ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

It  goes  without  saying  that  I  am  always  concerned  about  the  supply 
of  virtues  that  I  may  have  wrapped  up  in  myself,  but  I  assure  you  that 
I  have  one  virtue  at  this  particular  moment.  I  am  sure  I  am  filled  to  the 
saturation  point  with  humility.   I  trust  that  for  the  few  minutes  I  stand 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday.  October  7  Second  Day 

before  you  whatever  timidity  I  have  may  leave  so  that  I  can,  with  some 
regard  to  my  responsibility,  say  those  things  that  I  should  like  to.  I  trust 
that  I  may  not  only  have  an  ambition  to  tickle  your  ears,  but  say 
exactly  what  I  think. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  PEOPLE  IN  FAR-AWAY  STAKES 

First  I  want  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  integrity  of  the 
people  that  I  am  continually  contacting,  by  virtue  of  my  position  in  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  in  visiting  the  different  stakes.  About  two  weeks 
ago  it  was  my  pleasure  to  visit  southern  Utah  and  down  as  far  as 
Nevada,  and  I  am  filled  with  appreciation  of  meeting  men  and  women 
of  the  caliber  that  are  in  this  Church.  One  night  I  know  one  bishop 
came  as  far  as  165  miles  to  attend  that  meeting.  Multiplying  that  by 
two  makes  330  miles  that  he  traveled.  Whether  he  took  back  with  him 
what  he  ought  to  have  taken,  what  he  would  like  to  have  taken,  I  do  not 
know.  Perhaps  that  was  partly  my  responsibility.  But  I  do  feel  to 
honor  men  filled  with  such  integrity. 

I  want  to  say  this :  In  visiting  that  part  of  the  Church  I  am  very 
much  impressed  with  the  character  of  those  people.  We  sometimes 
wonder  why  Brigham  Young  sent  some  of  those  people  down  there  on 
their  pilgrimages  to  go  through  what  they  did,  but  surely  he  was  right. 
I  sometimes  think  there  is  a  civilization  down  there  that  has  been 
brought  out  of  the  rocks  and  the  caves,  so  to  speak,  that  some  time 
will  surprise  this  world.  A  civilization  cultured  and  safeguarded  by  the 
sacrifices  those  people  have  made.    Some  time  it  will  awaken  all  of  us. 

I  caught  this  in  going  through  a  book  the  other  night,  and  I  have 
been  impressed  with  it : 

Character  is  that  which  you  have  left  after  they  have  taken  away 
from  you  all  they  possibly  can. 

You  can  substitute  the  word  "faith"  if  you  wish.  I  am  impressed 
with  the  character  of  these  people  and  what  they  have  gone  through. 
They  are  dynamiting,  and  have  been  dynamiting  for  years,  the  rocks  to 
bring  the  water  where  they  determined  it  should  come.  They  were 
willing  to  make  these  sacrifices.  I  honor  those  people  and,  so  to  speak, 
I  take  my  hat  off  to  their  integrity.  I  believe  sincerely  that  in  contacting 
these  men — and  I  am  not  forgetting  the  women,  by  any  means — it 
makes  me  bigger  and  broader,  and  it  helps  me  to  fill  the  position  that 
I  have  been  called  to  in  a  more  substantial  way. 

PRESENT  PROBLEMS  TO  BE  FACED 

Someone  has  said  that  whenever  the  past  looks  glorious,  look  out. 
I  am  wondering  sometimes  if  it  is  not  just  as  well  to  be  frank  with  one 
another  and  face  things  exactly  as  they  are.  Things  are  not  all  rosy 
in  this  Church.  There  are  conditions  that  should  concern  us.  In  my 
judgment  there  never  were  so  many  great  problems  before  us.    I  am 


ELDER  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON  . 


61 


not  unmindful,  by  any  means,  of  what  we  are  accomplishing.  This 
beautiful  music  back  of  us  is  an  index  of  what  our  young  people  are 
doing.  I  honor  the  bishops  and  the  presidents  of  stakes  who  are  really 
progressive  and  doing  the  things  that  are  expected  of  them.  I  am  not 
unmindful  of  these  things.  I  glory  in  our  seminaries  and  what  they 
are  doing.  In  my  judgment  there  is  no  one  element  in  the  Church  that 
is  shaping  character  more  than  our  seminaries,  and  I  honor  those  men 
at  the  head  of  them,  and  in  particular  the  way  they  are  hand-picking  the 
teachers  whose  responsibility  is  to  contact  our  young  people. 

SELF-EXAMINATION  URGED 

I  am  mindful,  however,  of  some  other  things  in  our  Church.  I 
worry  sometimes  about  people  getting  sour.  People  do  get  sour.  With 
some  people,  if  their  nest  is  well  feathered,  the  Gospel  is  true.  If  their 
nest  is  not  feathered,  the  Gospel  is  not  true.  Do  you  ever  look  into 
yourself  and  say:  Why  is  the  Gospel  true?  Is  it  because  you  have 
faith,  or  is  it  because  everything  is  all  right  with  you?  We  are  not 
so  kind  as  we  ought  to  be,  I  appreciate  that;  but  sometimes  we  let 
circumstances  sour  us.  We  know  that  old  story  of  Job  where  the  Lord 
said  to  Satan  something  like  this:  "You  see  that  man?"  "Yes,  I  do 
see  him,  but  you  take  away  his  blessings  and  then  see  how  he  reacts." 
Now,  it  is  not  necessary  to  go  into  the  details,  but  Job  took  it,  and  the 
more  trouble  he  got,  the  more  of  a  character  he  proved  to  be.  Is  not 
that  a  lesson  to  us?  If  we  are  out  of  employment,  if  things  do  not  go 
the  way  they  ought  to,  does  it  make  us  sour?  We  ought  to  be  on  our 
guard. 

We  have  men  who  delight  in  being  knockers.  One  man  said  that 
knocking  in  a  person  is  exactly  the  same  as  knocking  in  an  automobile. 
It  is  always  a  sign  that  there  is  not  very  much  power  there.  I  think 
that  is  pretty  well  said.  A  man  we  sometimes  read  about,  who  was 
quoted  today,  who  made  a  reputation  for  splitting  logs,  compared  some 
people  we  are  talking  about  to  a  little  boat  that  used  to  go  up  and  down 
the  Mississippi  River.  It  had  a  big  boiler,  and  it  had  almost  as  big 
a  whistle,  and  every  time  it  whistled  it  took  all  of  the  energy  out  of 
the  boiler,  and  the  boat  had  to  stop  every  time  it  whistled.  Now,  there 
are  people  just  that  way.  When  you  contact  them  they  are  sour,  but 
when  they  open  the  throttle  to  make  a  nois'e,  you  can  bet  your  life  every- 
thing stops. 

FOLLOWING  A  LEADER 

Some  people  pick  out  a  certain  individual  and  say,  "What  an  ideal 
man !"  And  they  will  wrap  themselves  and  they  will  wrap  their  destiny 
around  him.  I  do  not  care  whether  he  is  a  bishop,  or  a  Sunday  School 
teacher,  or  who  he  is,  before  you  wrap  yourselves  around,  or  hang  your 
destiny  on  a  man,  be  sure  you  know  where  he  is  going.  If  you  will 
pardon  me — there  was  a  good  woman.  She  knew  she  was  going  to  die, 
and  she  had  written  on  her  tombstone,  so  her  husband  would  be  sure  to 


62  .     GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

indelibly  get  it:  "Follow  me."  He  wrote  below  it:  "To  follow  thee 
I'm  not  content,  until  I  know  which  way  you  went."  My  boy,  who  was 
on  a  mission,  wrote  this  little  circumstance  home  to  us,  and  I  give  it  to 
you  for  what  it  is  worth.  It  is  a  very  insignificant  story,  but  it  has  some 
value  to  it.  They  were  going  on  a  trip  from  London  to  Liverpool. 
It  being  holiday  time,  they  decided  to  spend  a  couple  of  days  on  such  a 
journey.  A  fog  came  up  and  it  was  just  as  thick  as  a  fog  can  be  in 
old  England — and  you  people  who  have  been  there  know  what  I  am 
talking  about.  Well,  they  borrowed  a  little  Ford  or  some  kind  of  a 
machine  to  go,  but  after  they  had  started,  this  fog  came  up  and  they  were 
in  peril;  they  were  up  against  it.  The  only  way  they  could  make  any 
progress  was  to  wait  until  a  car  came  along  that  had  a  fairly  good 
tail-light,  then  follow  the  red  light  accordingly.  Well,  they  did  not 
make  much  progress.  They  stopped  and  listened  and  did  the  best 
they  could.  Finally  a  big  truck  came  along,  with  a  great  big  tail-light, 
and  it  made  the  boys  so  happy.  It  stopped  and  went  on,  stopped  and 
went  on,  but  they  thought,  of  course,  the  man  was  getting  his  bearings, 
and  they  knew  that  as  long  as  they  followed  that  tail-light  they  were 
making  fine  progress.  They  followed  it  and  rejoiced  because  soon  they 
would  be  in  Liverpool.  They  followed  that  tail-light  for  about  two 
hours,  stopping  and  going  on.  Finally  the  fellow  who  drove  the  truck 
stopped,  came  back  to  the  boys,  and  said :  "Boys,  I  am  awfully  sorry, 
but  this  is  as  far  as  I  go.  I  have  been  all  through  the  village  and  I  have 
delivered  all  the  milk." 

Now,  "To  follow  thee  I'm  not  content,  until  I  know  which  way 
you  went." 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  LEADERSHIP 

I  am  concerned  over  the  things  before  us.  I  have  mentioned  this 
before  and  I  want  to  be  pardoned.  I  think  Brother  Clark,  in  his  talk 
on  the  Christ  in  the  series  of  lectures  he  is  giving,  made  the  observation 
that  even  Christ  repeated  for  the  sake  of  emphasis.  There  are  some 
things,  I  think,  we  can  repeat  and  keep  repeating.  I  am  speaking  about 
the  conditions  in  some  of  our  wards.  I  am  not  forgetting,  by  any 
means,  our  dilapidated  buildings.  I  am  not  forgetting  our  meeting 
houses.   We  have  a  responsibility  there  we  just  cannot  neglect. 

We  have  a  problem  with  our  young  people.  They  are  going  a  little 
faster  than  we  think  they  ought  to  go,  but  part  of  the  responsibility  is 
ours,  because  some  of  us  who  have  responsibilities  are  on  dead  center, 
if  you  will  pardon  that  expression.  We  are  not  satisfied  with  the  way 
they  are  going,  but  just  what  are  we  doing  about  it  ?  In  some  localities 
there  is  so  much  static  that  nothing  is  done  about  it.  We  have  a  responsi- 
bility. In  our  meeting  with  the  Relief  Society  the  day  before  yesterday 
this  thought  was  brought  out:  Sometimes  we  think  more  of  the  glory 
that  comes  to  us  because  of  the  badge  of  responsibility  we  wear  than 
we  think  of  what  we  ought  to  be  doing  about  it. 

Now,  I  am  satisfied  sometimes  we  glory  to  ourselves  too  much  what 


ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 


63 


the  past  is,  and  sit  down  idly  and  twiddle  our  thumbs  and  think,  "All  is 
well  in  Zion."  All  is  not  well  in  Zion  unless  we  use  initiative  and  wake 
up  and  do  the  things  we  ought  to  do.  "The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence," 
and  sometimes  we  do  not  use  as  much  intelligence  as  we  ought  to  use. 
I  appreciate  that  when  we  are  put  under  six  feet  of  ground,  there  will 
be  a  lot  of  things  in  the  world  that  are  yet  to  be  done.  I  am  not  unmindful 
of  that,  by  any  means.  But  I  do  think  that  we  have  responsibilities  that 
we  ought  to  appreciate.  There  are  probably  only  750,000  of  us  in  the 
Church,  but  if  we  were  just  united,  the  way  we  ought  to  be,  we  could 
surprise  the  whole  world.  I  am  not  forgetting  a  couple  of  hundred 
boys  who  came  from  Sparta.  When  they  were  told  that  the  enemy 
was  so  thick  that  their  arrows  darkened  the  sun,  one  lad  spoke  up  and 
said :  "So  much  the  better.   We  will  fight  in  the  shade." 

Now,  we  have  something  ahead  of  us.  Let  us  have  the  courage,  and 
I  believe  we  have  the  courage  that  we  ought  to,  and  we  will  get  some- 
where. 

THE  DRINK  EVIL  POINTS  A  DOWNWARD  COURSE 

The  drink  proposition  is  about  as  serious  as  it  can  get,  and  we  all 
know  it.  We  ought  to  do  something  to  meet  it  fairly  and  squarely,  in  a 
way  that  will  help  the  young  people  to  seek  the  proper  avenues,  rather 
than  to  go  where  they  are  going.  I  am  firmly  of  this  opinion,  that  in 
the  face  of  all  of  our  civilization,  and  the  steps  we  are  making,  we  are 
like  the  cow  that  gives  a  pail  of  fine  milk  and  then  kicks  it  over.  Now, 
we  are  just  doing  that,  whether  we  own  up  to  it  or  not. 

A  dear  Scotch  friend  of  mind  told  me  this  story  before  he  died,  and 
I  will  never  forget  it.  He  said  a  fellow  had  a  beautiful  heifer.  He 
loved  it.  She  was  a  thoroughbred.  He  put  her  into  a  pasture  so  she 
would  have  the  best  grass  up  to  her  knees.  In  the  face  of  everything, 
that  cow  got  thinner  and  thinner.  He  walked  around  the  pasture. 
What  was  the  trouble?  He  could  not  find  it.  As  she  got  still  thinner 
he  made  up  his  mind  he  was  going  to  search  every  nook  and  corner, 
and  he  went  into  the  field,  and  examined  every  bush.  Finally  up  in  one 
corner  where  he  noticed  the  cow  frequently  stood,  there  was  an  old 
weed.  It  kept  pulling  her  down.  Drink  is  doing  exactly  the  same  to 
our  civilization,  whether  we  own  up  to  it  or  not,  and  in  a  constructive 
way  we  have  got  to  meet  it. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us.  Amen. 


"Inflammatus,"  (Rossini)  was  sung  by  the  Branch  Agricultural 
College  Chorus,  Annette  Betensen  soloist. 

Elder  Colen  H.  Sweeten,  President  of  the  Curlew  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  was  resumed  at  2  p.  m. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  that  the  music  for  this  session 
would  be  furnished  by  the  Branch  Agricultural  College  Chorus  of  Cedar 
City,  William  H.  Manning,  Director,  and  that  the  Chorus  and  the  con- 
gregation would  unite  in  singing,  as  an  opening  number,  the  hymn,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Winslow  Farr  Smith,  President  of  the  Ensign  Stake. 

The  Chorus  sang  "God  is  Our  Refuge,"  (Dudley  Buck) . 

A  double  trio  from  the  Branch  Agricultural  College  Chorus  sang 
"Dawn"  (Curran). 

ELDER   STEPHEN   L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  express  unto  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  my  love  and  my  love 
also  for  the  great  cause  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  desire  to  render 
service  to  that  cause  this  afternoon  in  discussing  some  practical  and 
temporal  matters. 

ONE  METHOD  OF  INCREASING  PROSPERITY 

My  subject  is  The  Gospel  of  Work.  I  invite  your  attention  to  the 
following  figures  which  I  take  from  a  current  magazine : 

If  each  of  five  million  (American)  wage  earning  families  now  under 
$1250  a  year  could  get  $2.00  more  a  day  per  family  *  *  * 

they  would  spend  each  year:  $213,000,000  more  on  fuel  and  light 
and  refrigerators, 

$224,000,000  more  on  household  furniture, 

$285,000,000  more  on  motor  cars  and  other  transportation, 

$208,000,000  more  on  medical  and  dental  services, 

$234,000,000  more  on  recreation, 

$73,000,000  more  on  personal  care, 

$416,000,000  more  on  clothes, 

$613,000,000  more  on  housing 

and  $800,000,000  more  on  food. 

These  items  would  total  more  than  $3,000,000,000  in  new  sales 
for  the  five  million  families  alone,  and  if  all  the  families  in  the  United 
States  could  have  $2.00  a  day  more  than  they  now  have  their  purchasing 
power  would  be  increased  by  $20,000,000,000  a  year. 

The  first  question  naturally  arising  from  the  figures  I  have  quoted 
is :  How  can  we  get  $2.00  a  day  more  for  each  family  in  our  country, 
and  particularly  for  the  five  million  families  of  the  lower  incomes? 
I  give  you  in  substance  the  answer  of  the  author :  By  more  and  better 
work  on  the  part  of  the  employed  of  our  country. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


65 


And  how  will  more  and  better  work  of  the  employed  add  to  all 
incomes  and  purchasing  ?  Answer :  First,  by  making  it  possible  to  reduce 
prices  so  that  families  even  without  raising  present  incomes  may  buy 
all  that  they  now  buy  at  lower  prices  and  have  sufficient  money  left 
over  to  buy  more  and  other  goods ;  and,  secondly,  the  increased  volume 
of  commodities  purchased  will  mean  larger  production,  and  larger  pro- 
duction means  the  employment  of  more  workers. 

It  is  of  course  very  trite  and  commonplace  to  assert  that  what  the 
country  most  needs  is  more  purchasing  power.  Everybody  knows 
that.  But  it  is  not  so  obvious  that  increased  purchasing  power  is  largely 
the  result  of  lower  prices  and  that  after  all  our  real  problem  is  not  so 
much  with  the  unemployed  as  with  the  employed.  This  is  so  because 
whenever  a  man  who  has  a  job  does  his  work  better  and  more  efficiently 
he  makes  it  possible  to  reduce  the  price  of  the  commodity  or  the  service, 
thus  adding,  as  I  have  heretofore  pointed  out,  to  the  consumer's  pur- 
chasing ability.  There  is  very  respectable  authority  and  abundant  statis- 
tical data  to  prove  this  conclusion. 

But  do  reduced  prices  always  follow  better  work  and  methods?  I 
am  sorry  to  say  that  they  do  not,  and  it  is  chiefly  because  prices  do  not 
decline  that  the  volume  of  sales  does  not  increase,  that  our  prosperity 
is  stifled,  that  discouraging  unemployment  persists,  that  government 
pursues  such  costly  experimental  remedies,  and  that  our  whole  system 
of  free  enterprise  is  threatened. 

Now  I  am  induced  to  bring  these  matters  to  your  attention  because 
I  firmly  believe  there  is  a  very  definite  relationship  between  them  and 
the  concepts,  practices,  and  teachings  of  our  Church,  and  because  I  want 
our  people  to  know  that  approved  economic  theory  makes  practical  and 
feasible  many  aspects  of  our  teachings. 

HAPPINESS  IN  HONEST  LABOR 

We  have  always  dignified  work  and  reproved  idleness.  Our  books, 
our  sermons,  our  leaders,  including  particularly  our  present  President, 
have  glorified  industry.  The  busy  hive  of  the  honeybee — Deseret — has 
been  our  emblem.  Work  with  faith  is  a  cardinal  point  of  our  theological 
doctrine  and  our  future  state, — our  heaven,  is  envisioned  in  terms  of 
eternal  progression  through  constant  labor. 

This  fundamental  principle  of  the  honor  of  work  is  sorely  needed 
in  application  in  the  world  today.  All  the  fraudulent  schemes,  the  rackets, 
governmental  corruption,  and  wide-spread  public  demoralization  have 
their  inception  and  support  chiefly  in  the  failure  to  recognize  the  dignity 
and  the  happiness  that  flow  from  honest  toil. 

.  What  is  honest  work  ?  I  believe  it  is  rightly  interpreted  only  in 
terms  of  service,  and  the  value  of  true  service  is  measured  by  someone's 
gain.  Such  a  concept  is  not  only  Christian  but  it  lies  at  the  foundation 
of  sound,  profitable  business.  There  are  innumerable  demonstrations 
of  this  fact.  The  kind  of  work  that  makes  a  better  product  for  less  cost 
is  what  our  national  economy  demands.    There  are  at  least  two  indis- 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

pensable  factors  in  this  kind  of  work  and  the  efficiency  it  produces. 
First,  integrity,  which  includes  loyalty ;  and  second,  ability.  No  one  can 
succeed  unless  he  is  dependable.  If  he  works  for  another,  he  must  make 
his  employer's  interest  his  own.  If  he  works  for  himself,  he  must  be 
faithful  and  true  to  his  enterprise  or  he  will  fail.  The  "watch  the  clock" 
variety  of  service,  with  no  interest  in  the  job  but  to  get  the  per  diem,  is 
as  much  responsible  for  bankruptcies  as  any  other  factor  which  I  know. 

Not  only  must  our  workers  be  loyal  but  they  must  also  be  able  to 
succeed.  In  the  highly  competitive  markets  for  goods  and  services, 
locally,  nationally,  and  internationally,  the  skills  and  acumen  are  usually 
the  deciding  features.  Ability  is  generally  the  product  of  training  and 
education.  The  most  skillful  not  only  have  the  .best  chances  themselves 
but  they  contribute  most  to  the  success  of  the  enterprise  with  which 
they  are  associated.  It  is  a  notable  fact  that  during  the  years  of  depres- 
sion, with  some  exceptions  of  course,  particularly  in  industrial  centers, 
the  really  skilled  worker  has  been  little  in  evidence  among  the  unem- 
ployed and  even  when  he  has  been  without  a  job  it  most  commonly 
has  been  attributable  to  arbitrary  manipulations  of  the  price  structure 
for  services  or  goods. 

SKILLED  LABOR  DEFINED 

On  the  other  hand,  our  recent  history  demonstrates  that  the  un- 
skilled laborer  has  a  hard  time  of  it.  His  service  is  the  first  to  be  dispensed 
with.  He  is  the  least  wanted.  And,  I  regret  to  say  it  for  fear  of  hurting 
feelings,  he  makes  the  least  contribution  to  economic  progress.  In  saying 
this  I  want  you  to  understand  that  I  do  not  limit  skilled  labor  to  the 
professions,  the  artisans,  or  any  white-collar  or  other  group  who  may 
consider  it  beneath  them  to  do  any  honest  work.  I  class  any  man  as  a 
skilled  worker  who  has  cultivated  the  ability  to  do  his  assigned  job 
exceptionally  well.  I  know  expert  grave  diggers  whose  skill  commands 
my  admiration  and  esteem. 

It  is  my  privilege  to  travel  around  the  country  a  good  deal.  I  see 
many  farm  lands.  I  often  note  that  on  one  side  of  a  fence  is  an  area 
of  stunted  crop  growth,  weeds,  barren  patches,  and  unproductive  desola- 
tion, while  on  the  other  side  of  the  fence  with  nothing  but  a  dimension 
line  between,  with  the  same  potential  soil,  equal  water  rights,  the  same 
air,  the  same  sun,  the  same  climate,  lies  a  field, — a  field  beautiful  beyond 
description  with  the  abundant  productivity  which  nature  yields  to  the 
skilled  husbandman.  I  see  fat  cattle  and  lean,  good  homes  and  poor 
ones.  I  go  into  stores, — some  are  attractive,  merchandise  is  so  arranged, 
service  so  efficient  and  courteous  that  goods  sell,  while  in  others,  on  the 
same  block,  perhaps,  there  is  evidence  of  slovenliness,  poor  buying,  lack 
of  the  art  of  proper  display,  and  the  proprietor  wonders  why  customers 
do  not  come.  There  are  service  stations  on  every  hand.  It  is  not  un- 
common to  see  four  located  on  the  four  corners  of  a  prominent  inter- 
section. Sometimes  only  one  out  of  the  four  succeeds.  Surely  location 
is  not  the  determining  factor.    Almost  countless  millions  of  dollars 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


67 


are  now  invested  in  automobiles.  These  machines  cost  much  to  buy 
and  much  to  maintain.  Some  last  a  long  time  and  pay  to  their  owners 
reasonable  returns  on  the  investment  in  more  ways  than  one.  Others 
are  quickly  ruined  and  the  depreciation  is  enormous  and  shameful. 

Now  what  is  the  determining  factor  in  these  contrasted  results  and  a 
world  of  others  comparable  to  them?  Why,  of  course,  with  relatively 
few  exceptions,  it  is  the  personal  equation,  the  skill  and  the  energy  of 
the  proprietor  or  his  employees  or  both. 

CAPITALISM  IN  ITS  TRUE  SENSE 

This  doctrine  of  work  lies  at  the  very  foundation  of  the  capitalistic 
system.  Many  people  misunderstand  and  misinterpret  capitalism.  They 
think  that  because  the  word  "capital"  is  used  to  designate  the  system 
that  its  chief  purpose  is  to  make  wealthy  men  who  are  usually  called 
capitalists  and  whose  wealth,  it  is  feared,  is  too  often  accumulated  at 
the  expense  of  poorer  classes.  I  admit  that  there  are  instances,  altogether 
too  many,  where  this  comes  about.  But  this  is  not  the  true  concept 
of  capitalism.  The  capitalistic  system  in  its  inner  essence,  is  little, 
if  anything,  more  than  a  man's  free  right  to  work,  to  choose  his  work, 
and  enjoy  the  rewards  of  his  efforts.  In  my  estimation,  it  is  a  most 
precious  thing  and  it  is  indispensable  to  the  liberty  and  freedom  of  which 
America  boasts.  It  is  the  only  tried  and  tested  system  of  free  enter- 
prise in  this  world  and  every  other  opposing  system  is  built  on  an  abridg- 
ment of  personal  liberty.   For  one  I  do  not  want  to  lose  it. 

But  we  will  lose  it  if  we  do  not  understand  it  and  recognize  its  virtues. 
It  is  not  the  capitalistic  system  itself  that  makes  some  men  rich  and 
some  men  poor.  The  men  themselves  do  that,  again  with  some  ex- 
ceptions. The  system  merely  offers  the  opportunities.  There  are,  of 
course,  abuses  within  it,  as  there  must  always  be  when  humanity  is  im- 
volved.  It  does  not.guarantee  that  all  men  will  be  rich,  and  it  is  worthy 
of  note  that  all  systems  which  do  usually  succeed  only  in  making  all 
poor.  To  eradicate  the  abuses  within  the  system  is  almost  as  difficult 
as  to  reform  humanity.  But  who  would  advocate  killing  humanity 
because  they  are  slow  to  reform  ?  In  this  connection  I  shall  be  pleased 
to  point  out  in  a  moment  the  bearing  of  religion  on  some  of  the  problems 
of  capitalism. 

THE  NEED  FOR  COOPERATION 

We  must  be  patient  with  our  American  system.  It  will  take  a  long 
time  to  eliminate  the  imperfections  in  its  operation.  To  be  patient  it 
is  necessary  to  be  tolerant, — tolerant  of  other  people  and  their  views. 
Everything  we  do  in  America  is  a  composite  of  many  opinions.  The 
unifying  element  in  our  national  affairs  is  common  purpose  and  desire. 
I  like  to  think  that  all  Americans,  however  their  views  may  vary  as  to 
methods  and  policies,  have  common  desire  to  maintain  our  fundamental 
liberties,  one  of  the  most  important  of  which  is  our  system  of  free 
enterprise.   So  I  hesitate  to  impugn  men's  motives,  even  though  I  do  not 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

agree  with  their  methods.  I  make  these  observations  because  I  want  to 
enter  a  plea  for  intelligent  cooperation  among  all  who  have  regard 
for  our  American  institutions  and  principles. 

There  is  a  great  need  for  cooperation  in  the  field  of  economics. 
Our  citizens  must  themselves  be  educated  to  understand  the  systems 
under  which  they  live  and  work.  They  must  know  enough  to  establish 
the  proper  education  for  themselves  and  their  children  and  reach  con- 
clusions for  themselves.  I  believe  that  it  is  neither  wise  nor  safe  to  leave 
the  determination  of  our  educational  systems  and  policies  exclusively  to 
the  professional  educators.  I  do  not  discount  the  valuable  service  of 
our  teachers.  I  should  always  want  their  expert  advice,  but  I  am  con- 
fident that  the  patrons  of  the  schools  should  have  a  much  larger  voice 
than  they  now  have  in  the  establishment  of  curriculums,  school  policies 
and  management.  This  is  a  distinct  subject  in  itself  which  I  will  not 
further  pursue.  I  mention  it  because  it  has  a  direct  bearing  upon  work 
and  economic  conditions  which  are  my  subject. 

THE  GOSPEL  OF  WORK 

Now  to  return  to  the  gospel  of  work, — and  it  is  a  gospel,  if  ever 
God  gave  us  a  message  and  principle  for  our  salvation.  It  would 
seem  apparent,  without  further  comment,  that  the  spread  of  this  gospel 
of  work  is  absolutely  indispensable  to  the  solution  of  the  problems  of 
our  individual  and  national  economy.  I  think  we  can  lay  it  down  as  an 
almost  unfailing  rule,  because  the  exceptions  are  so  few,  that  the  loyal, 
able,  skilled,  industrious  worker  is  successful.  His  loyalty  is  his  char- 
acter. He  makes  that  for  himself.  His  skill  is  attained  by  training 
and  education.  Even  genius  is  little  more  than  the  capacity  for  hard, 
sustained  work. 

I  am  in  favor  of  more  concentration  in  our  educational  processes  in 
the  development  of  the  useful  skills.  The  student  who  comes  out  of  a 
high  school,  college,  or  university  without  ability  to  serve  in  useful 
capacities  has  failed,  whatever  his  alleged  scholarship  may  be.  I  am 
willing  that  the  term  "useful"  should  be  applied  to  every  form  of  human 
endeavor  that  contributes  to  the  welfare  of  humanity,  but  I  demand 
that  it  be  consciously  useful  in  the  mind  and  heart  of  the  student  himselt. 

What  better  could  we  do  than  to  teach  every  boy  and  girl,  and 
ourselves  meanwhile,  that  the  ambition  of  every  life  should  be  a  distinct 
contribution  to  the  economic  welfare  of  the  whole  people. 

EDUCATION  IN  ECONOMICS  URGED 

For  the  purposes  of  this  discussion  I  lay  the  emphasis  on  economic 
education.  I  am  sure  that  in  the  long  view  of  our  living  that  emphasis 
is  not  misplaced.  It  is  not  misplaced  because  happiness  and  contentment 
and  progression  come  to  people  only  who  are  not  hampered  by  destitution 
and  poverty  and  who  are  able  to  maintain  the  right  kind  of  manhood 
and  womanhood  in  reasonable  independence  and  prosperity.  Self-reliance, 
itself,  is  a  necessary  concomitant  of  the  principle  of  free  enterprise. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


69 


There  is  no  sin  in  proprietorship  and  every  man  and  woman  can  be  a 
proprietor  if  he  or  she  but  will.  All  may  not  be  landed  proprietors  or 
the  owners  of  great  property  but  all  may  be  proprietors  of  their  services, 
so  developed  and  executed  as  to  make  them  indispensable  units  in  the 
progress  of  the  people. 

RESULTS  OF  UNFAIR  METHODS 

Will  you  now  consider  with  me  another  phase  of  the  economic 
situation.  I  have  advanced  the  doctrine  for  which  I  give  credit  to 
another  that  lower  prices  increase  consumer's  purchasing  power  and 
promote  employment,  and  that  better  and  more  efficient  service  rendered 
by  loyal  workers  makes  possible  reduction  in  prices.  Why  is  it  that  the 
public  do  not  always  receive  the  benefit  of  advanced  methods  and  more 
efficient  service  ?  The  answer  is  :  short-sightedness  and  selfishness  on  the 
part  of  some  men  in  industry.  This  short-sightedness  and  selfishness 
are  most  conspicuous  in  two  forms, — first,  in  what  are  known  as  com- 
binations in  restraint  of  trade ;  and  second,  arbitrary  and  unconscionable 
control  and  manipulation  of  labor.  While  the  two  items  may  not 
occupy  the  same  legal  status,  I  place  them  both  in  the  same  category 
because  they  produce  substantially  the  same  effect  in  our  national  econo- 
my. Both  tend  to  raise  prices  to  the  consumer  and  fail  to  pass  on  to  him 
the  benefits  accruing  from  better  methods  and  more  efficient  service; 
both  increase  rather  than  decrease  unemployment,  and  both  promote 
industrial  animosity  and  discord  where  cooperation  and  unity  are  so 
much  required.  We  have  laws  to  deal  with  the  former, — combinations 
in  restraint  of  trade.  Perhaps  some  day  there  will  be  adequate  statutory 
regulation  of  labor. 

But  it  is  not  with  reference  to  the  legal  aspects  of  the  situation  that 
I  am  now  greatly  concerned.  That  which  does  give  me  anxiety  is  the 
questionable  motives  and  dispositions  of  men  and  the  lack  of  foresight 
apparent  in  such  uneconomic  setups  and  policies.  How  is  a  $3.00-a-day 
farmer  to  pay  for  a  $2.00-an-hour  plasterer?  How  much  20c  wool 
does  it  take  to  pay  for  $60  suits  of  clothes?  How  can  a  moderately 
paid  clerk,  however  much  his  family  may  need  it,  build  a  house  when 
the  controlled  prices  for  materials  and  labor  subject  him  to  a  life  mortgage 
on  his  gainful  occupation  to  pay  the  debt?  I  am  perfectly  aware  that 
profit  is  the  life  of  business,  and  I  have  no  objection  whatever  to  the 
profit  incentive,  but  I  do  not  have  any  sympathy  with  the  avarice  and 
stupidity  which  in  the  long  run  cut  off  profits  and  stifle  prosperity. 
It  would  almost  seem  as  if  the  privilege  of  profit  should  not  be  permitted 
to  those  who,  either  through  ignorance  or  lack  "of  humanitarian  prin- 
ciples are  not  capable  of  being  entrusted  with  it.  It  is  here  that  the 
concept  of  the  brotherhood  of  man  plays  such  an  important  role.  No 
one  who  recognizes  the  Fatherhood  of  God  and  mankind  as  his  children 
can  tolerate  with  equanimity  the  inequalities  and  injustices  which  such 
selfishness  brings  about.  I  am  sure  that  our  system  of  free  enterprise 
could  have  no  greater  assurance  of  success  than  in  true  Christian  brother- 
hood. 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7 


Second  Day 


ELEMENTS  OF  SUCCESS 

However,  I  am  not  a  defeatist.  I  believe  there  is  more  good  in 
men  than  bad  and  that  the  good  will  triumph.  I  am  sure,  too,  that  the 
people  of  the  United  States  will,  through  work,  create  wealth  and  in 
that  creation  give  employment  and  happiness,  if  only  the  natural  laws 
upon  which  free  enterprise  has  been  established  are  allowed  to  freely  oper- 
ate. But  wealth  cannot  be  created  in  sufficient  amount  to  go  around  and 
bring  prosperity  to  all  the  people  if  those  laws  are  seriously  contravened 
by  any  group  in  our  society, — capital,  labor,  or  government.  Nothing 
but  work  can  create  wealth  in  this  day  and  age, — productive  work  of 
the  laborer.  Other  manipulations  may  seem  to  do  it  but  they  do  not 
create  real  wealth  that  feeds  and  clothes  and  houses  and  makes  happy 
people.  The  Government  cannot  do  it  because  in  final  analysis  it  is  not 
possessed  of  the  elemental  necessities  for  the  creation  of  wealth.  Of 
itself  it  has  no  capital  and  it  has  no  labor.  All  that  it  can  do  is  take  from 
one  and  give  to  another.  It  takes  by  taxation,  its  only  ultimate  source 
of  revenue;  and  it  gives  in  wages,  subsidies,  bounties,  and  many  other 
ways,  but  it  does  not  create  wealth  and  the  creation  of  wealth  lies  at  the 
basis  of  prosperity. 

I  want  to  make  it  distinctly  clear  that  I  am  not  attacking  the  motives 
or  intentions  of  the  Government  or  governmental  agencies  who  have 
sought  to  meet  emergencies  and  difficult  situations  with  much  novel  and 
experimental  legislation.  I  have  never  desired  failure  for  any  of  the 
experiments.  I  have  always  wished  for  their  success  and  I  think  some 
have  succeeded.  I  disclaim  any  intention  or  any  effort  to  influence 
partisan  politics.  My  sole  desire  is  to  expound  the  principles  of  sound 
economics  as  I  conceive  them  and  believe  in  them  and  as  I  deem  them 
to  be  in  harmony  with  the  well-established  and  time-tested  principles  of 
our  religion. 

I  hope  I  recognize  as  fully  as  I  should  the  severance  of  church 
and  state.  I  hope,  too,  that  I  recognize  the  influence  of  religion  on  life, — 
not  only  spiritual  life,  but  social,  economic,  moral,  and  political  life. 
Life  is  not  a  thing  of  severable  segments.  It  is  a  whole  course  of  conduct, 
a  unity  of  experience  and  existence,  and  every  aspect  of  our  living  affects 
every  other  aspect.   I  so  justify  a  sermon  on  economics. 

PEACE  RESTS  UPON  ECONOMIC  FOUNDATION 

If  it  needs  any  further  justification,  I  point  to  the  state  of  the  world. 
Behold  the  mad  scramble  of  nations  for  territory  and  power !  What  lies 
at  the  foundation  of  this  horrible,  inhumane  struggle?  Chiefly  economic 
advantage,  control  of  the  world's  markets,  outlets  for  industry  that  more 
food,  more  independence,  and  more  of  the  comforts  of  life  may  be 
obtained.  Oh,  it  is  true  that  some  few  may  be  urged  on  by  personal 
craving  for  self-aggrandizement  but  the  real  reasons  why  the  masses 
are  induced  to  enter  and  maintain  such  unholy  warfare  upon  each  other 
lie  in  economic  considerations.  So,  peace,  that  most  desired,  most  prayed 
for,  and  seemingly  the  most  elusive  and  unobtainable  thing  in  the  modern 


ELDER  ALFRED  C.  REES 


71 


world,  is  found  to  rest  on  economic  foundations.  The  economy  that  will 
support  peace,  however,  will  be  tempered  with  brotherly  love,  mutual 
consideration,  and  intelligent  and  equitable  concepts  of  men  living  to- 
gether on  the  earth. 

THE  DUTY  OF  CHURCH  MEMBERS 

We  of  the  Church  are  but  few  in  number  among  the  populations 
of  the  world.  We  can  scarcely  count  on  our  size  to  wield  great  influence, 
but  ideas  are  more  potent  than  size  and  I  believe  that  if  we  have  the 
will  to  do  it  we  can  send  out  from  our  midst  the  gospel  of  dignified, 
honest,  loyal,  efficient  service  as  it  has  not  been  preached  in  the  world  f  or 
many  a  day.  We  can  extol  self-reliance,  industrious  manhood  and 
womanhood,  family  solidarity  and  community  cooperation,  and  demon- 
strate their  essentiality  in  a  civilized  state.  We  can  show  that  brotherly 
love  is  more  than  an  ethereal  ideal  and  that  it  works  and  makes  for 
prosperity  and  happiness.  I  know  of  no  other  people  anywhere  that 
are  so  well  prepared  in  organization,  in  leadership,  in  disposition  and 
experience  for  the  undertaking. 

I  am  grateful  that  we  have  taken  a  step  in  the  direction  of  our 
opportunity  and  our  duty.  That  step  has  served  to  open  our  hearts  to 
kindly  and  charitable  considerations  and  also  to  open  our  minds  to  new 
and  great  avenues  of  service.  We  will  build  upon  the  beginning  we  have 
made.  We  will  produce  better  and  more  efficient  workers  who  in  turn 
will  produce  better  and  more  abundant  products  and  services. 

We  do  not  believe  in  the  doctrine  of  scarcity.  We  believe  in  pro- 
duction and  plenty.  We  believe  that  the  earth  is  designed  for  the 
comfortable  abode  of  man  and  we  believe  that  the  righteous  will  inherit 
it.  Good  men,  united,  cannot  fail.  Free  America,  though  she  may 
falter,  will  in  the  end  find  peace,  prosperity,  and  happiness.  The  Church 
of  Christ  will  lead  the  way.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALFRED  C.  REES 

Former  President  of  the  East  German  Mission 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  a  divine  in- 
stitution. The  men  who  have  directed  it,  and  who  are  now  directing 
it,  are  men  of  God.  That  is  my  testimony  to  you  today.  It  has  been 
my  testimony  throughout  my  life.  It  has  only  been  corroborated,  intensi- 
fied and  strengthened  through  the  experiences  that  came  to  me  while 
presiding  over  the  East  German  Mission.  For  when  men,  upon  setting 
you  apart,  can  outline  to  you  in  minute  detail  the  experiences  which  are 
before  you;  can  tell  you  some  of  the  objectives  that  lie  before  you, 
to  be  achieved,  that  will  challenge  your  industry,  your  humility  and 
your  integrity ;  and  when  in  the  course  of  your  missionary  experiences, 
these  blessings  and  promises  are  literally  fulfilled — there  is  no  room 
for  speculation  or  doubt  as  to  the  source  from  which  those  men,  who 
are  called  of  God  to  lead  this  Church,  derive  that  inspiration  and 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

knowledge.  It  was  not  due  to  their  skill  in  diplomacy,  not  on  account 
of  their  acquaintance  with  world  affairs  that  they  were  able  to  outline 
specifically  the  unusual  experiences  which  should  come  to  me  at  a  very 
peculiar  time  in  the  whole  history  of  our  Church  operations  in  Germany ; 
at  a  time  of  historic  note  in  the  development  of  a  social  philosophy  under- 
taken by  that  great  government.  No.  They  spoke  as  the  spirit  of 
revelation  and  inspiration  dictated  their  words. 

It  is  my  pleasure  to  tell  you  that  in  the  East  German  Mission 
there  are  nearly  eight  thousand  faithful  Latter-day  Saints,  men  and 
women  of  unquestioned  devotion  and  integrity.  Today  we  should  be 
mindful  of  them,  as  we  are  of  all  of  the  Saints  in  Europe,  who  have 
suddenly  been  left  to  their  own  devices.  As  we  think  of  them,  we  cannot 
escape  the  conclusion  that  they  must  be  experiencing  anxious  despair 
and  discouragement ;  that  they  are  both  amazed  and  confused  in  their 
present  plight.  May  our  prayers  ascend  to  our  Heavenly  Father  that 
they  may  be  preserved  against  the  ravages  of  war  and  against  all  the 
other  concomitant  evils  that  go  with  that  tragic  conflict. 

It  is  my  pleasure  to  report  the  very  happy,  constructive  and  helpful 
visits  which  we  received  from  the  General  Authorities.  President  Clark 
paid  us  a  flying  visit  and  gave  us  the  benefit  of  his  wisdom  and  deep 
understanding  of  world  and  Church  affairs.  It  was  a  stimulating  oc- 
casion. President  and  Sister  Lyman  were  also  with  us.  President 
Lyman  had  the  opportunity  to  be  the  guest  speaker  before  one  of  the 
most  influential  business  groups  in  Germany.  He  was  introduced  as 
an  Apostle  of  this  Church.  Sister  Lyman  spoke  before  an  outstanding 
and  select  group  of  social  workers  representing  governmental  and  private 
agencies.  They  bestowed  upon  her  every  possible  courtesy  and  con- 
sideration and  received  her  in  the  most  gracious  manner.  As  usual, 
she  acquitted  herself  in  a  most  creditably  charming  way.  After  her 
presentation  of  the  work  being  performed  by  the  Relief  Society,  she 
was  literally  bombarded  by  those  who  wanted  to  know  more  about 
our  unusual  achievements. 

Later,  Elder  and  Sister  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  came.  Although 
their  visit  was  short,  we  enjoyed  their  companionship  immensely. 

Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  wife  made  a  tour  of  the  mission, 
and  everywhere  were  received  with  joy  and  gladness  because,  as  you 
know,  Brother  Smith  is  known  as  one  of  the  clearest  exponents  of  our 
faith.  They  were  glad  to  hear  an  unqualified,  unadulterated  presentation 
of  the  Gospel  in  simple  terms.  The  Elders  flocked  about  him  and 
showered  him  with  the  many  questions  that  were  agitating  their  minds. 
In  the  most  gracious  manner  Sister  Smith  supplemented  and  com- 
plemented Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith's  activities  among  missionaries 
and  Saints. 

It  was  our  pleasure  to  take  them  up  to  the  present  war-torn  city 
of  Danzig,  where  we  were  guests  of  the  government  at  a  dinner,  and  a 
trip  through  the  famous  harbor.  Everywhere,  every  conceivable  courtesy 
was  bestowed  upon  them.  At  one  place,  nine  hundred  Saints  met ; 
just  in  one  district — evidence  of  the  eagerness  with  which  our  people 


ELDER  ALFRED  C.  REES 


73 


looked  forward  to  the  appearance  and  visit  of  one  of  the  General 
Authorities. 

The  visit  of  President  Grant  was  an  unforgettable  event.  Every- 
where people  mentioned  the  sweet  influence  which  that  venerable  leader 
had  upon  them,  his  quiet  demeanor,  his  outstanding  physical  vigor,  his 
clarity  of  understanding,  the  rich  spirituality  which  radiated  from  him. 

Many  events  appear  to  us  as  unimportant  incidents ;  yet  in  them  all 
we  see  the  hand  of  the  Lord  guiding,  operating,  directing.  It  was  just 
a  little  over  a  year  ago  that  we  received  instructions  from  the  First 
Presidency  to  remove  all  our  Elders  out  of  Germany  and  take  them  to 
Denmark.  That  came  as  a  great  surprise  to  us,  because  we  had  little 
concern  about  the  movements  about  us.  Perhaps  it  is  like  a  wheel; 
there  is  less  agitation  at  the  center  than  on  the  rim.  The  farther  one 
is  removed  from  the  theater  of  activities,  the  more  violent  the  agitation. 

I  went  to  the  U.  S.  Ambassador  to  inquire  what  his  thoughts  were 
about  the  gravity  of  the  situation.  He  regarded  it  as  trivial  and  of  no 
consequence.  Yet  we  were  told  by  the  Authorities  of  this  Church  to 
take  our  Elders  to  Denmark.  We  did  so.  A  year  later  that  order  was 
repeated.  Some  were  disposed  to  look  upon  that  first  venture  as  a 
useless  procedure.  But  what  an  effective,  may  we  say,  fire-drill,  that 
proved  to  be.  So  when  the  word  came  this  year  to  take  them  to  Denmark, 
and  then  eventually  home,  they  merely  had  to  repeat  all  the  details  of 
the  procedure  of  the  preceding  year  and  that  too  without  let,  hindrance 
or  delay.  They  were  all  safe  on  neutral  soil  within  thirty-six  hours. 
Surely  the  Lord  works  in  a  mysterious  way.  Then  it  was  that  every 
Elder  looked  back  upon  that  previous  experience  and  said:  "Now  we 
understand." 

We  have  been  given  every  conceivable  courtesy  at  the  hands  of 
those  in  charge  of  the  government.  What  has  been  achieved  in  that 
direction  has  not  been  the  work  of  any  one  man  or  group  of  men.  The 
hand  of  the  Lord  has  been  made  visible.  He  knew  that  events  were 
coming  to  a  climax.  It  seemed  to  all  of  us  who  were  laboring  in  that 
mission,  that  we  were  being  literally,  veritably  pushed  by  some  unseen 
power  into  activity  because  the  time  was  short.  Now  we  look  upon  our 
activities  as  unmistakable  evidence  of  that  fact. 

The  Saints  in  the  East  German  Mission  are  devoted  tithe-payers, 
not  only  in  the  amount  paid,  but  in  the  number  paying.  Those  of  us 
who  are  interested  in  genealogical  work  will  be  pleased  to  know  that 
through  a  complete  change  in  the  plan  of  organization,  something  new 
perhaps  has  developed  in  that  work.  Customarily  there  were  about 
five  thousand  names  gathered  a  year.  Each  Sabbath  they  were  reminded : 
"There  will  be  a  genealogical  meeting  held  this  week.  Please  come." 
There  as  here,  only  a  sprinkling  attended.  Then  we  raised  these 
questions  among  all  of  the  people  of  the  mission:  Did  the  visit  of 
Moroni  have  any  great  purpose  ?  Why  did  he  come  three  times  in  the 
same  night?  What  was  his  message?  Do  you  believe  it?  Was  that 
merely  a  beautiful  phrase,  or  did  it  have  real  meaning?  Will  it  be  a 
fact  that  we  who  have  been  privileged  to  come  upon  the  earth  to 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Bay 

receive  the  Gospel  will  be  held  responsible  for  utilizing  this  blessed 
opportunity,  and  that  our  loved  ones  who  are  beyond  the  veil,  who 
have  never  had  that  privilege,  will  hold  us  responsible  for  their  redemp- 
tion and  salvation  ?  Where  do  we  stand  ?  What  will  be  the  nature  of 
the  meeting  and  the  reception  when  we  see  them  on  the  other  side? 
Can  we  then  conceivably  be  idle  respecting  their  salvation  and  our  own  ? 

These  thoughts  were  implanted  in  their  hearts,  with  the  result  that 
they  solemnly  entered  upon  a  real  constructive,  helpful  activity.  Strange 
to  say,  we  dismissed  all  genealogical  classes  and  in  their  stead  set 
up  in  the  mission  a  supervisor  (the  Elder  who  is  here  today)  ;  a  super- 
visor over  each  district — thirteen  in  number;  a  supervisor  over  each 
branch — seventy-eight  in  number.  Then  in  each  branch  we  appointed 
a  committee  of  young  and  old  people  and  instructed  them  in  all  the 
details  of  the  mechanism  of  preparing  the  temple  forms.  These  branch 
members  were  then  assigned  to  visit  the  homes  of  the  Saints  by  appoint- 
ment. They  went  into  these  homes  and  began  gathering  and  recording 
names.  After  one  year,  under  that  plan  of  organization  and  stimulation, 
instead  of  only  five  thousand  there  were  eighty-six  thousand  names 
gathered — six  thousand  above  the  goal  of  eighty  thousand.  At  the  outset 
we  said,  "Let  every  one  be  responsible  for  ten  names."  We  compared 
that  great  concourse  of  those  beyond  the  veil  with  assemblages  in  this 
building.  That  vast  number — eighty-six  thousand — would  fill  this  mag- 
nificent building  over  ten  times — those  who  will  be  there  to  greet  us 
when  we  pass  beyond  to  give  an  account  of  our  stewardship. 

You  mothers  and  fathers  will  be  glad  to  know  something  about  the 
splendid  young  men  with  whom  Sister  Rees  and  I  were  privileged  to 
associate.  When  people  speak  of  sacrifice  they  surely  don't  understand 
the  rich  compensation  that  comes  with  the  privilege  of  being  identified 
with  these  dynamic,  hopeful,  inspirational  young  men,  who  come  into 
the  mission  field  to  find  themselves ;  groping  and  hoping  that  some 
time  they  will  be  able  to  understand  the  Why  and  the  Wherefore.  And 
then  to  see  these  young  men  return  from  their  missions  to  you  with  a 
burning  testimony  of  the  divinty  of  the  Gospel — and  clean.  What  a 
compensation ! 

We  have  often  said  to  the  Elders:  "There  is  no  sacrifice  in  this 
Church.  If  we  in  the  missionary  field  can  think  of  a  sacrifice,  it  is  only 
when  we  are  not  mindful  of  our  opportunities."  The  only  sacrifice  is 
on  the  part  of  those  who  are  supporting  us,  when  we  are  derelict. 
Otherwise  it  is  the  most  profitable  and  best  investment  that  can  come 
to  any  one  who  is  supporting  a  missionary,  even  if  it  be  a  widow  who 
must  take  in  washing  to  maintain  that  young  son  who  represents  all 
her  hopes,  aspirations  and  ambitions. 

Guiding  and  inspiring  these  young  men  and  women  constitutes  the 
greatest  opportunity  and  obligation  of  a  mission  president. 

At  this  point  I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  the  power,  the  force 
and  the  value  of  the  mission  mother ;  how  at  every  point  she  supplements 
the  work  of  the  mission  president.  Her  influence  among  the  young 
missionaries  is  without  limit.    If  she  is  a  woman  of  abiding  faith,  she 


ELDER  ALFRED  C.  REES 


75 


radiates  it,  and  unconsciously  these  young  men  absorb  it.  She  plays 
one  of  the  most  important  roles  in  all  the  missionary  service. 

It  was  very  refreshing  indeed  to  me  to  hear  the  scholarly,  con- 
structive, sound  presentation  given  by  President  Clark  yesterday  re- 
specting our  international  relations.  We  are  disposed  to  criticize  people 
of  other  nations  because  they  have  permitted  themselves  to  be  subju- 
gated; yet  that  is  only  a  repetition  of  history  from  time  immemorial. 
There  have  always  been  Esaus,  individually  and  collectively,  who  have 
been  willing  to  sell  their  eternal,  priceless  possessions  for  temporary 
values  and  conveniences.  That  is  not  peculiar  to  the  people  beyond  the 
ocean.  We  may  well  wonder  whether  we,  ourselves,  are  being  captured 
by  that  same  glamor. 

This  is  a  land  of  liberty.  But  as  President  Gark  pointed  out,  there 
is  one  stipulation :  that  we  shall  serve  the  Lord  according  to  the  command- 
ments which  he  has  given  us ;  then,  and  then  only,  will  it  be  a  land  of 
liberty.  We  must  be  mindful  of  the  fact  that  two  great  civilizations 
once  thrived  upon  this  continent,  this  same  continent,  with  the  same  soil, 
the  same  potential  wealth,  the  same  opportunities, — and  yet  they  passed 
into  oblivion.    It  was  to  them,  too,  a  promised  land. 

We  are  faced  with  a  challenge.  Have  we  superior  intelligence 5 
Have  we  the  clarity  of  vision,  have  we  the  spirituality,  to  make  this,  and 
to  continue  it,  a  land  of  liberty  ?  Civilizations  have  come  and  gone,  never 
on  account  of  economic  poverty,  but  rather  on  account  of  their  moral 
laxity,  their  low  spiritual  standards.  Upon  the  gravestones  of  every 
defunct  civilization  could  properly  be  written  this  epitaph — if  we  can 
put  it  in  alliteration — "Purchased;  Plundered;  then  we  Perished." 

When  people  are  in  the  throes  of  despondency,  and  economic  un- 
certainty, and  are  threatened  with  revolution,  some  one  comes  forward 
with  a  dazzling  slogan,  and  the  masses  accept  it.  People  can  be  pur- 
chased. The  temporary  visible  gains  are  exchanged  for  permanent 
possessions.    It  is  not  peculiar  to  any  one  time  or  to  any  one  people. 

A  short  time  ago  I  was  called  before  the  Chief  of  Police  in 
Germany,  and  these  challenging  questions  were  put  to  me:  "Why  are 
you  here?  Who  invited  you?  How  do  you  differ  from  the  other 
Christian  churches?"  He  said:  "You  recall  that  we  are  attempting 
here  to  establish  a  certain  social  philosophy.  We  do  not  need  any 
importation."  How  would  you  have  answered?  My  answers  were 
evidently  sufficiently  satisfactory  for  we  were  granted  the  privilege  of 
continuing  our  operations  in  that  land. 

Just  yesterday  I  was  very  happy  to  receive  from  our  mission 
headquarters  in  Berlin  the  statement:  "All  is  going  well,"  and  with  this 
addition:  "The  Lord  is  with  us."  Anticipating  the  present  eventuality, 
an  organization  of  local  brethren  was  set  up.  They  are  going  forward, 
much  to  our  joy  and  happiness,  and  I  am  sure,  to  the  satisfaction  of 
the  presiding  brethren.  It  will  be  a  difficult  thing  for  our  Saints  in 
Europe  to  understand  why  they  should  be  left  to  their  own  devices. 
When  we  returned  from  Denmark  last  year,  we  had  to  answer  that 
question.    Our  reply  was  put  in  the  form  of  questions : 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Day 

"Is  this  Church  being  divinely  led?" 
"Yes." 

"Are  those  men  who  now  stand  at  the  head  of  this  Church  men 
of  God?" 
"Yes." 

"What  would  you  have  done  if  you,  as  mission  president,  had 
received  word  from  them,  not  a  suggestion,  but  the  command,  to  do 
as  we  did?" 

They  saw  the  light. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  difficult  for  us  to  understand  the  out- 
standing advantages  we  have  over  all  the  other  nations  of  the  world. 
May  I,  in  closing,  merely  give  utterance  once  more  to  my  complete 
agreement  with  the  statement  of  President  Clark  and  the  First  Presi- 
dency, that  it  needs  the  moral  force  of  America  to  bring  peace  into  the 
world.  Without  that  moral  force  any  settlement  in  Europe  will  not 
be  based  on  justice  or  fairness.  It  will  not  be  the  American  way.  After 
all,  there  is  no  thesis,  there  is  no  philosophy  of  life  that  will  or  can 
bring  permanent  peace  into  the  world.  We  must  look  to  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  which  takes  care  of  all  the  needs  of  humanity  and  will 
eventually  lead  us  back  into  the  presence  of  God. 

My  prayers  are  for  the  safety  of  Zion,  that  we  may  prepare  our- 
selves to  do  what  the  Lord  has  outlined  for  us  to  do ;  so  that  when  the 
world  comes  to  us  to  learn,  we  may  be  prepared  to  teach — I  pray 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

We  are  living  today  in  one  of  the  most  crucial  periods  of  all  time. 
This  is  a  day  when  men's  hearts  are  failing  them  for  fear  of  what 
awaits  them  as  oppression  and  uncertainty  increase,  nations  war  against 
nations,  and  the  elements  themselves  seem  to  be  in  commotion. 

PRESENT  NEED  OF  THE  WORLD 

We  are  living  also  in  a  time  when  those  high  principles  of  integrity 
and  right,  which  are  so  fundamental  to  true  progress,  seem  to  be  flaunted 
and  cast  aside  by  men  and  nations  seeking  to  get  gain.  Even  in  high 
places,  statesmen  doubt  the  veracity  of  other  statesmen.  Distrust  and 
intrigue  abound,  and  the  seeds  of  discord  are  sown  with  abandon. 
Thinking  men  wonder  what  we  are  coming  to.  Distressing,  however, 
as  these  conditions  may  be,  they  throw  into  sharp  perspective  one  great 
and  basic  truth : 

That  what  this  world  needs  today  are  men  of  character  and  integrity, 
men  possessed  of  brotherly  love,  and  faith  in  the  all-wise  Providence 
who  is  obviously  working  out  his  designs  in  the  earth;  men  who  are 
willing  to  do  right  for  right's  sake,  with  due  regard  for  others. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


77 


God  give  us  men.   A  time  like  this  demands 

Strong  minds,  great  hearts,  true  faith  and  ready  hands. 
God  give  us  men.    Men  whom  the  lust  of  office  does  not  kill ! 

Men  whom  the  spoils  of  office  cannot  buy ; 
Men  who  possess  opinions  and  a  will ; 

Men  who  have  honor ;  men  who  will  not  lie ; 
Men  who  can  stand  before  a  demagogue 

And  damn  his  treacherous  flatteries  without  winking. 

Tall  men,  sun-crowned,  who  live  above  the  fog, 

In  public  duty  and  in  private  thinking. 
For  while  the  rabble,  with  their  thumb-worn  creeds, 

Their  large  professions  and  their  little  deeds, 
Mingle  in  selfish  strife — lo !  Freedom  weeps ; 

Wrong  rules  the  land  and  waiting  Justice  sleeps. 

(J.  G.  Holland.) 

The  world  needs  today  men  who  will  love  and  trust  each  other ; 
men  with  vision  to  see  the  great  underlying  cause  of  the  trouble  which 
now  afflicts  us  and  with  the  courage  to  remove  its  cause.  It  needs 
men  who  understand  that  there  can  be  no  real  stability  without  a  knowl- 
edge and  acceptance  of  God,  men  who  understand  that  no  matter  how 
we  try  we  can  never  escape  the  certainty  in  the  words  of  Christ  when 
he  said : 

Whosoever  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them,  I  will  liken 
him  unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  a  rock : 

And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew, 
and  beat  upon  that  house ;  and  it  fell  not :  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

And  every  one  that  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them 
not,  shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  the 
sand: 

And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house ;  and  it  fell :  and  great  was  the  fall  of  it. 

Each  generation  throughout  the  ages  has  lived  largely  unto  itself, 
and  has  failed  to  read  in  the  history  of  the  peoples  of  the  past  the  story 
of  their  own  success  and  failure.  Great  fundamental  laws  have  prevailed 
throughout  the  centuries,  and  history  now  shows  that  when  peoples  of 
the  past  have  complied  with  these  laws,  they  have  enjoyed  peace  and 
happiness,  but  when  they  have  gone  contrary  to  them,  distress  has  been 
their  portion. 

OBSERVANCE  OF  GOD'S  LAWS  BRINGS  HAPPINESS 

These  great  fundamental  principles  of  human  conduct  were  given 
to  Moses  on  Mount  Sinai.  They  have  been  re-stated  to  us  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  are  as  binding  today  as  they  were  when  they 
were  committed  to  ancient  Israel. 

I  quote  them : 

I  am  the  Lord  thy  God. 

Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me. 

Thou  shalt  not  make  unto  thee  any  graven  image. 

Thou  shalt  not  bow  down  thyself  to  them,  nor  serve  them. 

Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain. 

Remember  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy. 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Day 

Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother. 

Thou  shalt  not  kill. 

Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery. 

Thou  shalt  not  steal. 

Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness. 

Thou  shalt  not  covet. 

These  principles  are  as  fundamental  to  the  well-being  of  all  men 
and  nations  as  any  which  have  been  declared.  And  may  I  call  your 
particular  attention  to  the  first  of  those  which  I  have  read:  /  am  the 
Lord  thy  God.  *  *  *  Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me. 

It  is  decreed  that  eventually  every  one  must  bow  the  knee  and 
confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  They  must  acknowledge  what  this 
first  statement  to  Moses  makes  clear — that  there  is  one  God,  and  that  he 
lays  it  down  as  a  basic  principle  that  men  must  serve  him,  and  keep  his 
commandments  if  they  would  be  saved. 

Godlessness  has  became  a  major  peril  in  all  nations,  and  the  world 
is  paying  the  price  of  it  now  in  the  distress  through  which  it  is  passing. 
So  I  say,  an  acknowledgment  of  God  is  the  first  great  need  of  mankind 
today.  With  that  acknowledgment  must  come  also  a  recognition  of 
the  wisdom  of  his  ways  and  the  truth  of  his  precepts,  for  men  must  not 
only  acknowledge  him,  they  must  turn  to  him  and  serve  him. 

Is  it  any  wonder  then  that  the  Lord,  speaking  to  his  modern  repre- 
sentatives said  that  they  must  cry  repentance  to  this  generation ;  that  we 
must  call  upon  men  everywhere  to  change  their  course  of  life,  leave  off 
their  search  for  pleasure  and  the  vain  things  of  the  world,  and  turn 
to  that  great  Being  who  spoke  to  Moses  on  the  Mount  and  announced 
the  high  principles  contained  in  the  Ten  Commandments? 

Repentance  from  sin  is  the  foundation  of  true  manhood.  It  en- 
nobles the  soul,  and  takes  bitterness  from  the  heart,  placing  man  in 
greater  harmony  with  his  Creator. 

In  this  day  of  unbelief,  and  at  a  time  when  disregard  for  these 
principles  has  led  to  war  and  bloodshed,  we  solemnly  declare  to  all 
men  that  in  very  deed  the  Lord  is  God,  as  he  said  to  Moses,  and  that 
he  lives,  also  that  he  has  appeared  to  men  in  our  day  and  time. 

PERSONAL  VISITS  OF  THE  FATHER  AND  THE  SON 

We  know  and  teach  that  our  Eternal  Father  and  his  Son,  the  Savior 
of  the  world  did  appear  to  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  of  modern  times, 
and  talked  with  him  as  he  did  anciently  with  Moses,  face  to  face,  as  one 
man  speaketh  with  another.  And  we  further  testify  that  the  Lord 
committed  to  Joseph  Smith  and  his  associates  the  holy  Priesthood,  by 
which  they  were  empowered  to  organize  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
upon  the  earth  in  latter  days,  and  by  which  they  obtained  the  right  to 
baptize  the  believers  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  to  admit  them  as 
members  into  the  Church  of  Christ. 

This  great  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  knows  that  what  I 
say  is  true,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  spoke  the  truth  when  he  declared 
that  he  had  seen  the  Father  and  had  talked  with  him. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


79 


Referring  to  his  first  vision,  the  Prophet  declares : 

I  saw  two  personages  whose  brightness  and  glory  defy  all  description 
standing  above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by 
name,  and  said :  This  is  my  Beloved  Son.    Hear  Him. 

And  then  Joseph  says  he  talked  with  the  Lord  face  to  face,  and 
received  an  answer  to  his  questions. 

But  this  was  not  the  only  time  the  Lord  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith. 
On  April  3,  1836,  in  the  Kirtland  Temple,  once  again  the  Prophet 
was  privileged  to  gaze  upon  the  face  and  figure  of  his  glorified  Lord.  Of 
this  momentous  occasion  the  young  man  wrote : 

We  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon  the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit,  before 
us,  and  under  his  feet  was  a  paved  work  of  pure  gold,  in  color  like  amber. 

His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire;  the  hair  of  his  head  was  white  like 
the  pure  snow ;  his  countenance  shone  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun,  and 
his  voice  was  as  the  sound  of  the  rushing  of  great  waters,  even  the  voice 
of  Jehovah,  saying: 

I  am  the  first  and  the  last;  I  am  he  who  liveth.  I  am  your  advocate 
with  the  Father. 

On  still  another  occasion  did  the  Prophet  have  a  similar  experience. 
As  he  stood  with  Sidney  Rigdon  in  the  little  village  of  Hiram,  Ohio, 
February  16,  1832,  these  two  men  were  permitted  a  glorious  view  of  the 
Redeemer,  concerning  which  they  wrote : 

And  now  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him  :  That  he  lives  ! 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God,  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto 
God. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  acknowledge  the  Lord  as  God,  and  they 
call  upon  men  everywhere  to  do  likewise.  They  know  that  whosoever 
will  hearken  unto  his  words  and  keep  his  commandments  will  be  likened 
to  the  wise  man  who  built  his  house  upon  the  rock,  and  that  they  shall 
not  be  overcome  when  the  strife  and  the  storms  come  upon  them  as 
tribulations  are  poured  out  upon  the  earth  by  a  just  God  who  comes 
to  judgment. 

We  must  not  overlook  the  fact  that  those  who  believe  in  Joseph 
Smith  and  have  a  testimony  of  his  divine  appointment  are  the  only  ones 
upon  this  earth  who  have  a  knowledge  and  can  testify  that  the  Lord  God 
appeared  in  the  latter  days,  for  there  is  no  other  people  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth  who  have  such  a  testimony.  Upon  this  testimony  we  must 
continue  to  build  until  the  world,  wherever  it  is  possible  to  send  word, 
may  hear  and  learn  that  Joseph  Smith  received  the  authority  to  establish 
the  Church  in  the  earth  through  a  personal  visit  of  God  the  Father  and 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  with  such  a  knowledge  we  may  trust  that 
our  salvation  is  assured  if  we  keep  the  commandments  of  God. 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7 


Second  Day 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  shall  enjoy  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  the  endeavor  to  address  you  this  afternoon.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  testimony  with  which  the  Lord  has  blessed  me,  and  of  all 
of  the  gifts  that  he  has  given  unto  me  this  testimony  is  the  most  precious 
and  important  one. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  BLESSINGS 

I  am  grateful  for  an  ancestry  who  had  the  faith  and  the  courage  to 
come  to  this  great  land,  and  bestow  upon  their  posterity  the  blessings  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  bless  us  with  the  privilege  of  dwelling  in 
such  a  pleasant  place,  where  we  might  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Lord's 
house,  and  the  association  with  the  prophets  of  God. 

SEEDS  OF  GOOD  AND  EVIL 

Recently,  in  passing  a  great  public  building,  I  noticed  this  inscrip- 
tion near  the  doorway.  It  read :  "The  seed  of  the  past  is  the  harvest 
of  the  future."  This  sentence  stimulated  some  thinking  on  my  part. 
I  wondered,  "What  is  the  nature  of  the  seeds  being  planted  today,  and 
what  will  be  the  harvest  of  the  future?"  I  find  there  is  a  great  variety 
of  seeds  being  planted,  some  seeds  that  are  good,  and  some  seeds  that 
are  evil.  I  find  that  there  are  seeds  of  indebtedness.  Without  a  doubt 
the  peoples  of  the  world  today  are  being  shackled  by  the  bonds  of  in- 
debtedness, as  never  before.  The  generation  to  which  you  and  I  belong 
will  never  live  long  enough  to  see  these  shackles  broken. 

I  find  seeds  of  immorality ;  seeds  which  promulgate  the  idea  and  the 
doctrine  that  Jesus  the  Christ  might  have  been  a  prophet  and  a  great 
teacher,  but  that  no  relationship  exists  between  him  and  the  Father,  in 
the  sense  that  he  was  the  Only  Begotten  in  the  flesh ;  seeds  of  disrespect 
for  government ;  seeds  which  enslave  the  body  through  the  use  of  drugs  ; 
seeds  of  the  corrupt  philosophy  that  men  have  a  right  to  expect  a  living 
from  the  world  without  any  personal  exertion,  mentally  or  physically. 

From  these  seeds  we  can  largely  determine  what  the  future  will  hold 
for  the  men  and  the  women  of  tomorrow.  Those  men  and  women  of 
tomorrow  are  in  your  homes  and  my  home.  I  sometimes  think  that 
as  parents  we  are  prone  to  leave  the  responsibility  of  training  these 
children  to  the  universities,  high  schools,  and  elementary  schools.  Their 
spiritual  training,  we  feel,  is  a  matter  that  should  be  left  entirely  to  the 
Church ;  and  perhaps  the  only  responsibilities  we  have  are  to  see  that 
they  are  properly  clothed  and  fed. 

THE  HOME  UNIVERSITY 

Thoughts  and  opinions  of  this  kind  are  decidedly  detrimental  and 
dangerous  to  the  welfare  of  the  youth  of  the  land,  and  dangerous  to  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


81 


welfare  and  the  future  of  the  Church  and  Government.  The  home  is  the 
greatest  institution  of  learning.  George  Herbert  once  said :  "The  first 
university  is  the  university  of  the  home.  Here  the  hours  for  recitation 
are  the  morning,  the  noon  and  the  night.  Here  we  find  the  round  table 
of  infancy  and  childhood.  Here  are  discussed  the  problems  of  the  present 
hour,  and  the  possibilities  of  the  coming  years.  Here  sit  the  scholars 
of  youth  and  maidenhood.  Here  are  enthroned  two  great  chairs,  endowed 
by  destiny  and  sustained  by  human  affections  Fatherhood  and  Mother- 
hood. The  greatest  university  in  the  world  is  the  home.  One  good 
mother  is  worth  one  hundred  school  masters." 

The  home  being  the  greatest  university,  the  great  place  of  prepara- 
tion for  the  men  and  the  women  of  tomorrow,  who  are  going  to  be 
faced  with  a  most  uncertain  future,  I  wonder  if  in  our  planning  and 
thinking,  we  are  preparing  those  curriculums  and  courses  which  will  give 
our  boys  and  girls  the  training  that  they  should  have  relative  to  their 
hearts,  to  their  heads,  to  their  minds,  and  some  instructions  pertaining 
to  the  fundamentals  of  health. 

FUNDAMENTALS  IN  THE  TRAINING  OF  CHILDREN 

In  training  the  heart,  we  will  all  agree  that  this  great  organ,  which 
vitalizes  the  body  and  keeps  it  alive,  is  also  the  seat  of  all  emotions,  and 
the  greatest  emotion  to  be  cultivated  and  stimulated  is  that  of  love. 
The  first  and  great  commandment  is  to  love  God  the  Eternal  Father  with 
all  of  one's  heart  and  soul  and  mind ;  and  the  second  one  is  like  unto  it, 
to  love  one's  neighbor  as  one's  self. 

In  teaching  our  children  to  love  God,  what  is  the  first  lesson?  I 
would  suggest  that  the  first  lesson  is  the  lesson  of  prayer,  to  take  the 
child,  although  he  may  be  barely  able  to  walk,  to  the  family  altar  of 
prayer.  Teach  him  the  necessity  of  communicating  with  God,  his  Eternal 
Father,  from  whose  presence  his  spirit  has  but  recently  come.  If  we 
can  establish  that  bond,  between  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  our  chil- 
dren, through  prayer,  we  are  inculcating  into  their  hearts  respect  for, 
faith  in,  and  love  for  their  Eternal  Father. 

We  are  anxious  that  our  children  should  understand  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  should  encourage  them  to 
study  these  principles.  Obedience  to  the  principles  should  be  taught. 
We  will  find  that  through  prayer,  obedience,  and  study  comes  under- 
standing; and  with  understanding  comes  testimony,  a  testimony  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  and  that  in  the  meridian  of  time  the 
Gospel  was  restored  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 

TESTIMONY  COMES  THROUGH  REVELATION 

I  often  wonder  if  we  ever  endeavor  to  define  testimony.  Brigham 
Young  defined  it  on  one  occasion.  He  said  that  every  honest  searcher 
of  truth  had  the  right  to  know  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  in  the  same  way 
that  Peter  knew  it.   I  wonder  how  Peter  knew  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ. 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  October  7  Second  Day 

May  I  briefly  relate  to  you  the  incident  wherein  Peter  knew  that  Jesus 
was  the  Christ?    I  think  we  recall  the  occasion. 

As  the  Savior  traveled  he  turned  upon  his  companions,  one  day  and 
asked  them  the  question:  "Whom  say  ye  that  I  am?"  Some  of  his 
disciples  replied:  "Some  say  that  thou  are  John  the  Baptist;  some 
Elias,  and  others  Jeremias,"  and  so  forth.  Finally  this  man  Peter,  this 
calm  and  humble  man,  stood  up,  and  looking  the  Savior  squarely  in  the 
eye,  said:  "Thou  are  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God."  The 
Savior  replied  and  said:  "Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona,  for  flesh 
and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven." 

How  did  Peter  know  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God?  He  knew  it  through  the  power  of  revelation.  And  modern- 
day  prophets,  have  promised  all  of  us  if  we  seek  the  truth,  with  a 
righteous  desire  to  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  we  can  know  it,  as  did 
Peter  of  old.  So  we  are  anxious  that  the  youth  of  this  great  Church  and 
this  great  land  shall  have  a  burning  testimony,  and  get  it,  if  possible, 
in  the  same  way  that  Peter  got  it,  through  revelation,  through  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

ADVANTAGES  OF  A  LATTER-DAY  SAINT  HOME 

The  university  of  the  home  has  some  advantages  that  the  insti- 
tutions of  learning  have  not,  namely,  at  the  head  of  every  Latter-day  Saint 
home  there  should  stand  a  man  who  holds  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 
In  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  he  has  the  right  to  inspiration  and 
revelation,  as  far  as  it  affects  those  who  are  attached  to  his  household. 
If  men  are  living  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  attending  to  their  duties 
in  the  Priesthood,  God  will  bless  them,  as  far  as  their  children  are  con- 
cerned, giving  them  leadership  and  inspiration. 

There  is  another  difference  between  the  ordinary  institution  of 
learning  and  that  of  the  home,  and  that  is  the  fact  that  in  the  home  there 
is  the  obligation  of  its  faculty,  namely,  father  and  mother,  to  set  the 
proper  example  to  these  children.  The  father  cannot  sit  idly  by  on 
Sunday  morning  and  say  to  his  sons  :  "It  is  time  for  you  to  go  to  Priest- 
hood meeting,"  while  he  remains  home.  It  is  not  possible  to  invite 
children  to  attend  Sacrament  meeting,  unless  we  set  the  example.  The 
matter  of  example  is  just  as  important  and  is  more  far-reaching  than 
is  instruction  which  comes  by  word  of  mouth. 

GREATNESS  OF  THE  CONSTITUTION  TO  BE  TAUGHT 

There  is  another  great  love,  not  only  love  of  God  and  love  of  one's 
neighbor— and  might  I  say  that  love  of  one's  neighbor  is  best  exhibited 
in  the  service  that  we  render  to  those  who  are  around  us — but  there 
should  be  love  of  country,  that  which  has  been  so  impressed  upon  us 
here  during  this  Conference.  I  wonder  how  often,  as  parents,  we  take 
dusty  copies  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  from  our  book- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


83 


cases  or  our  libraries,  spread  them  out  on  the  table,  and  then  invite  our 
boys  and  girls  to  come  and  go  over  the  articles  of  that  sacred  document, 
one  by  one.  I  wonder,  if  an  examination  were  given  to  the  citizens  of 
the  United  States  today,  relevant  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States, 
how  many  of  us  would  pass  it  successfully?  There  rests  upon  us  most 
definitely  the  obligation  of  acquainting  our  boys  and  girls  with  this  great 
document ;  teach  it  to  them  article  by  article,  that  they  might  understand 
the  principles  involved  therein,  principles  that  make  for  liberty,  freedom, 
and  personal  initiative,  and  of  worshipping  God  according  to  the  dictates 
of  one's  conscience. 

Our  boys  and  girls  should  know  and  understand  that  the  Constitu- 
tion made  it  possible  for  the  organization  of  a  government  under  which 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  could  again  be  restored  to  the  earth.  Do 
we  ever  read  to  our  boys  and  girls  the  sentiments  expressed  by  prophets 
of  God  in  connection  with  this  great  document,  such  as  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith:  "The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  a 
glorious  standard.  It  is  founded  in  the  wisdom  of  God.  "It  is  a  heavenly 
banner.  It  is,  to  all  of  those  who  are  privileged  with  the  sweets  of  its 
liberty,  like  the  cooling  shade  and  refreshing  water  of  a  great  rock  in  a 
dreary  and  thirsty  land.  It  is  like  a  great  tree,  under  whose  banners 
men  from  every  clime  can  be  sheltered  from  the  burning  rays  of  the  sun." 

These  words  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  relative  to  this  great 
document  of  liberty  and  freedom,  should  be  so  ingrained  in  the  hearts 
of  our  boys  and  girls  that  they  will  feel  we  not  only  have  standard 
Church  works,  such  as  the  Bible  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  etc.,  but  that 
we  also  have  standard  government  works,  the  first  of  which  is  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  United  States. 

Do  we  ever  give  our  boys  and  girls  any  practical  lessons  in  teaching 
them  the  true  greatness  of  the  Constitution?  How  often  do  we  pass 
some  great  industrial  plant,  and  notice  hundreds  of  automobiles 
around  it  ?  Some  of  us  may  think  that  those  automobiles  belong  to  the 
owners  of  the  plant,  or  to  the  management,  but  such  is  not  the  case. 
Those  automobiles  belong  to  the  men  who  work  in  the  plant.  You  can 
see  that  sight  only  in  America.  You  can't  see  it  in  Europe,  because  it 
is  not  there.  These  men  own  automobiles  because  of  the  rights  that  they 
have  under  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  to  earn  and  pay  for 
those  things  that  are  within  the  buying  and  purchasing  power  of  all  of 
these  people. 

We  speak  of  Hitler  and  his  ingenuity  in  accomplishing  great  things 
mechanically- — and  might  I  say  he  has — but  there  is  one  thing  that  he  has 
not  given  his  people,  although  he  has  endeavored  over  a  period  of  years 
to  provide  an  automobile  that  would  be  within  their  purchasing  power. 
But  here  in  America  we  not  only  enjoy  automobiles,  some  of  the  com- 
forts of  fine  homes,  and  fine  homes  themselves,  but  practically  every 
blessing  that  even  the  rich  and  elect  of  far-off  Europe  enjoy.  All  of 
these  things  are  possible  individually  because  we  live  in  a  country  where 
personal  initiative  is  not  restricted,  where  each  and  every  man  can  have 
anything  he  wants,  if  he  will  work  for  it. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

WARNING  AGAINST  UNPATRIOTIC  DOCTRINES 


We  should  draw  the  attention  of  our  children  to  the  fact  that  there 
is  now  a  war  going  on,  so  to  speak,  in  America.  Some  years  ago  we 
fought  a  great  civil  war.  It  was  fought  mainly  over  two  issues,  whether 
or  not  this  Government  should  exist  part  slave  and  part  free,  and  also 
as  to  whether  or  not  any  one  state  had  the  right  to  secede  from  the  Union. 
To  the  glory  of  those  gallant  men,  both  on  the  side  of  the  South  and 
of  the  North,  they  fought  their  battles  openly,  and  we  know  what  the 
results  were  and  are. 

But  the  warfare  we  now  find  isn't  one  that  is  being  fought  on  the 
battlefield,  honorably  and  openly,  but  it  is  a  battle  being  fought  behind 
the  names  of  so-called  patriotic  societies,  names  used  to  shield  the  ac- 
tivities of  those  who  would  have  us  believe  that  they  are  engaged  in 
patriotic  endeavor,  when  in  reality  they  are  doing  the  very  things  that  will 
undermine  the  Constitution  and  the  Government  of  the  United  States.  I 
think  our  boys  and  girls  should  be  advised  constantly  as  to  the  dangers 
of  these  organizations,  and  what  their  objectives  are.  It  is  a  known  fact 
to  all  of  us  that  the  very  nations  of  Europe  today  that  would  bathe  the 
world  in  blood,  have  their  agents  in  America,  promulgating  their  doc- 
trines. We  must  ever  be  on  guard,  and  particularly  should  we  so  advise 
the  youth  and  the  leaders  of  our  nation  of  tomorrow. 

TRUE  INTELLIGENCE 

With  regard  to  the  educating  and  the  training  of  the  mind,  it  is  true 
that  technical  training  should  be  given  in  our  institutions  of  learning, 
but  I  do  think,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  that  there  are  particularly  one  or  two 
things  that  we  should  stress  in  this  connection.  One  is  the  fact  that  our 
boys  and  girls  should  be  taught  to  segregate  the  true  from  the 
false.  We  should  teach  them  the  definition  of  that  glorious  state- 
ment given  to  us  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  when  he  declared  that 
"The  Glory  of  God  is  intelligence."  The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence, 
brethren  and  sisters,  when  we  use  true  intelligence  in  righteous  en- 
deavor, and  in  the  building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  think  these  are 
thoughts  and  principles  that  should  be  instilled  in  the  minds  of  our  boys 
and  girls  as  they  pass  through  school. 

HOME  TRAINING  IMPORTANT 

In  the  matter  of  training  the  hands,  this  training  begins  in  child- 
hood. It  begins  in  the  home.  A  child  should  be  taught  to  do  the  small, 
personal  things  for  himself,  to  become  independent  just  as  soon  as  pos- 
sible ;  always  to  remember  that  his  clothing  and  his  food  are  the  result  of 
someone  else's  labor.  He  should  be  taught  to  appreciate  what  it  costs 
to  earn  clothing,  to  earn  shoes,  and  to  earn  food. 

Horace  Greeley  has  said,  "The  darkest  hour  in  any  man's  life  is 
when  he  sits  down  to  plan  to  get  money  without  earning  it."  And 
Brigham  Young  has  said  concerning  work :   "Laziness  travels  slowly  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


85 


is  soon  overtaken  by  poverty.  Investment  of  time,  thought,  and  labor 
brings  achievement  of  personal  development.  Out  of  indolence  comes 
moral,  mental  and  physical  decay." 

Every  child  should  be  taught  that  the  Government  of  the  United 
States,  as  has  already  been  said,  is  not  an  organization  which  produces, 
a  profit,  but  rather  an  organization  which  is  a  perpetual  consumer ;  that 
the  people  of  the  Government  should  support  it,  and  in  no  instance  should 
the  Government  support  the  people.  When  a  child  or  an  individual 
thinks  that  he  can  be  dependent  upon  society,  then  he  becomes  an  enemy 
of  society. 

I  think  it  is  important  that  our  boys  and  our  girls  should  be  trained 
in  all  of  the  simple  small  tasks  of  the  home.  Perhaps  it  would  be  diffi- 
cult to  give  you  exact  statistics  relative  to  the  number  of  untrained  people 
on  the  unemployment  rolls  of  cities  and  states,  but  it  is  a  known  fact 
that  there  are  great  numbers  of  them.  This  does  not  only  pertain  to 
the  male  citizenry  of  America,  but  also  to  the  female  citizenry.  Our 
own  experience  in  the  Salt  Lake  region  has  shown  us  cases  where  mothers 
did  not  know  how  to  make  bread ;  cases  where  there  was  taken  to  them 
bolts  of  goods  to  make  clothing  for  their  children,  and  they  did  not 
know  how  to  proceed. 

In  order'  to  overcome  problems  of  this  kind,  it  is  highly  essential 
that  these  tasks  be  taught  in  the  home ;  that  every  child  have  placed  in 
his  hands  some  tool  with  which  he  can  construct  something  that  will  be 
useful. 

THE  LORD'S  LAW  OF  HEALTH 

With  reference  to  health,  the  fundamental  law  of  health,  as  given 
to  us  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  directly  from  our  Heavenly  Father, 
is  sufficient  to  guide  and  direct  our  boys  and  girls. 

The  Lord  has  promised  us  very  definitely  if  we  will  heed  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  and  follow  it,  great  blessings  are  in  store  for  us.    He  said : 

And  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and 
marrow  to  their  bones; 

And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures ; 

And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
■  And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them. 

These  promises  are  enough  to  inspire  and  motivate  each  and  every 
boy  and  girl  in  Israel  to  hold  sacred  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  to  live  it. 

PREPARATION  FOR  LEADERSHIP 

In  thinking  of  the  future,  wherein  there  will  be  many  perplexities 
and  problems,  I  am  sure  that  if  we  will  use  the  opportunities  that  are 
afforded  us  in  the  university  of  the  home  to  train  our  boys  and  girls, 
when  the  day  of  leadership  and  responsibility  comes  to  them  they  will 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  1  Second  Day 

be  prepared  and  under  the  inspiration  of  God  they  will  overcome  all 
difficulties ;  that  this  great  Government  to  which  we  belong  will  be  pre- 
served ;  and  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  will  retain 
its  place,  for  God  has  decreed  that  it  is  to  remain  for  all  time. 

So,  as  these  young  men  and  women  leave  the  home  to  go  out  and  build 
homes  for  themselves,  let  us  not  fail  to  advise  them  of  the  first  and  great 
commandment,  to  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth,  the  first  and  the 
great  commandment.  Thereby  we  will  create  new  homes  and  new  homes 
become  units  of  the  Government  and  of  the  Church. 

Let  us  remember  the  words  of  Jehovah  to  Joshua,  as  Joshua  was 
about  ready  to  lead  the  children  of  Israel  into  the  Promised  Land,  when 
Jehovah  said  to  him : 

Be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage;  be  not  afraid,  neither  be  thou 
dismayed;  for  the  Lord,  thy  God,  is  with  thee  whithersoever  thou  goest. 

I  am  sure,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Eternal  One  will  be  with 
the  leadership  of  tomorrow,  your  boys  and  girls,  if  they  will  but  depend 
upon  the  Holy  One,  who  will  never  forsake  them. 

I  often  think  of  the  spirit  of  Brother  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  expressed 
in  his  lovely  song.  If  we  could  only  inculcate  that  spirit  into  the  hearts 
of  our  boys  and  girls,  what  a  wonderful  thing  it  would  be !  I  have  often 
heard  Brother  Ballard  sing  these  words : 

I'll  go  where  you  want  me  to  go,  dear  Lord, 

Over  mountain  or  plain  or  sea; 
I'll  say  what  you  want  me  to  say,  dear  Lord, 

I'll  be  what  you  want  me  to  be. 

May  the  sons  and  daughters  of  Israel  be  what  God  wants  them  to  be, 
and  may  you  and  I,  as  their  parents,  so  inspire  them  and  motivate  them 
that  they  shall  reach  toward  the  highest  ideals,  and  thereby  be  enabled 
to  solve  the  problems  of  the  future,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER   RICHARD    L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

To  occupy  the  position  behind  this  pulpit  is  always  an  overwhelming 
experience,  and  one  to  which  I  never  expect  to  become  calmly  accustomed. 
I  ask  that  the  Lord  will  give  me  help  in  expressing  adequately  a  few  of 
the  thoughts  that  have  been  circulating  in  my  mind  during  this  Con- 
ference. 

OUR  MESSAGE  NOT  OF  MAN 

As  I  have  traveled  up  and  down  the  Church  this  past  year,  I  have 
become  very  thankful  that  it  was  not  my  message  that  I  was  carrying. 
I  have  become  increasingly  aware  that  of  myself  there  is  nothing  that 
I  could  tell  the  Latter-day  Saints  concerning  their  happiness  or  their 
eternal  progress.    I  have  also  become  aware  that  there  is  nothing  that 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


87 


we  have  for  those  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church,  except  as  the 
Lord  has  given  it  to  us,  and  except  as  it  finds  expression  through  us. 

It  has  been  one  of  my  obligations  to  conduct  the  tourist  service 
in  this  auditorium,  following  the  nation-wide  broadcast  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  each  Sunday  morning,  and  also  the  Sunday  afternoon 
Tabernacle  services  on  numerous  occasions,  and  as  the  faces  of  the  thou- 
sands of  searching  men  and  women  have  passed  before  us  here  I  have 
been  led  to  have  a  deep  sympathy  for  those  men  who  by  reason  of  their 
profession  or  the  expediency  of  making  a  livelihood,  must  stand  before 
their  fellow  men  to  preach,  teach,  persuade,  or  convince  in  any  field 
of  learning  or  any  department  of  life  except  they  know  within  their 
souls  that  that  which  they  speak  is  the  truth.  Except  they  have  that 
connection  they  are  blind  leaders  of  the  blind,  and  the  blind  don't 
lead  the  blind  very  well. 

For  a  moment  or  two  this  afternoon  I  would  like  to  say  something 
concerning  the  first  of  the  first  principles  of  the  Gospel.  Faith  may 
be  considered  to  be  a  trite  subject  to  many  who  have  an  idea  that 
everything  that  could  be  said  about  it  has  been  said,  but  it  is  not  so 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints  because  we  live  so  much  of  our  lives  by 
faith,  and  I  doubt  very  much  that  the  last  word  will  ever  be  said  upon  it. 

FAITH  A  SURE  FOUNDATION  FOR  KNOWLEDGE 

The  things  we  do  by  faith  gloriously  transcend  those  things  we  do 
by  mere  knowledge.  Moving  mountains  is  a  trivial  thing  to  those  who 
have  it.  By  faith  and  its  attendant  works  the  world  was  created,  and 
worlds  may  yet  be  created. 

I  am  not  an  unbeliever  in  the  world's  factual  knowledge.  I  stand 
in  respect  before  men  of  sincere  and  profound  learning  in  any  field. 
I  am  grateful  that  two  university  degrees  have  become  attached  to 
my  name,  and  I  had  rather  fondly  hoped  that  they  would  not  be  the 
last.  I  thrill  to  the  achievement  of  those  men  who  push  farther  out  the 
frontiers  of  human  knowledge.  But  I  have  learned  to  know  that  all 
men  of  academic  training  are  not  alike,  and  I  have  learned  to  know 
that  there  are  many  men  possessed  of  great  funds  of  factual  knowledge 
who  lack  wisdom. 

I  have  learned  to  know  that  when  you  find  a  man  of  learning  who 
has  faith,  you  may  travel  with  him  into  new  worlds  of  thought,  and 
beyond  horizons  as  yet  not  traversed  by  humankind,  with  joy  and  with 
safety.  But  when  you  find  a  man  of  learning  without  faith,  you  may 
not  travel  with  him  in  safety  to  any  destination. 

HAPPINESS  THE  GOAL  OF  REAL  PROGRESS 

I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  material  progress  of  the  past  fifty  years, 
exceeding,  as  it  has,  all  previous  recorded  history,  and  of  those  facilities 
and  comforts  with  which  it  has  surrounded  us.  I  am  aware  that 
under  the  sea,  in  the  air,  and  on  the  land,  man  is  master — master  of 
almost  everything  but  himself.    But  the  measure  of  progress,  after 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

all,  is  human  happiness  both  here  and  hereafter,  and  except  these  things 
can  be  translated  into  terms  of  human  happiness,  both  for  the  present 
and  for  the  future,  our  progress  is  not  what  it  would  seem  to  be  on 
the  face  of  it.  I  think  we  should  look  at  it  and  analyze  it  carefully  and 
ask  ourselves  honestly  whether  we  and  our  generation  and  our  world 
are  happier  than  our  grandmothers  and  our  grandfathers  and  their 
generation  and  their  world?  When  we  can  answer  that  question  we 
have  stated  the  true  measure  of  our  progress. 

I  do  not  see  a  particularly  happy  world  about  me.  As  I  read  the 
newspaper  or  turn  on  the  radio,  mostly  I  hear  of  its  pains  and  the  hopeless 
cries  of  distressed  men  and  women.  The  Victorian  age,  with  all  its 
ruffles  and  its  horsedrawn  carriages,  left  men  with  a  sense  of  faith  and 
security.  The  Napoleonic  wars  before  it  were  as  a  Sunday  School 
picnic  compared  to  the  present  scene  before  us.  All  this  chaos  is  not 
the  product  of  faith,  but  of  unbelief. 

I  am  fully  aware  that  the  man  of  cold  and  calculating  intellect, 
largely  devoid  of  faith,  often  makes  a  great  factual  discovery.  But  he  is 
usually  not  impressed  with  its  moral  implications.  He  does  not  see  his 
discovery  in  relation  to  the  purpose  of  life  and  the  ultimate  destination 
of  man. 

But  in  this  day,  when  good  and  evil  have  both  taken  on  refinements, 
it  is  not  enough  to  discover  a  fact  or  perfect  a  machine.  All  things  must 
be  interpreted  and  evaluated  and  used  in  terms  of  human  progress  here 
and  hereafter,  and  it  is  only  the  man  of  faith  who  can  do  this — who  can 
convert  the  findings  of  scholarship  and  research  into  ways  of  mortality 
and  give  eternal  meaning  to  all  of  the  facts  of  the  universe  that  are 
as  yet  or  may  be  discovered. 

I  am  quite  mindful  of  the  fact  that  scholarship  and  research  cannot  be 
confined  within  the  limits  of  a  narrow,  misguided,  man-made  dogma- 
tism. The  history  of  the  middle  ages  and  the  renaissance  proved  that. 
But  I  am  also  mindful  of  the  fact  that  scholarship  and  research  must 
confine  themselves  within  the  scope  of  truthful  representation,  and  that 
the  uncontrolled  speculations  of  men  must  not  be  spoken  for  truth 
except  as  they  have  been  demonstrated  to  be  so.  Men  have  a  right  to 
think  what  they  want,  but  they  also  have  an  obligation  to  label  their 
thoughts  properly,  so  the  unseasoned  searcher  may  not  be  deceived. 

A  LESSON  TAUGHT  IN  A  STORY 

There  was  a  book  published  a  year  or  so  ago  containing  a  writing 
by  one  Eric  Knight.  It  deals  with  the  story  of  a  Yorkshireman,  and 
is  called  The  Flying  Yorkshireman — the.  story  of  a  man  who  believed  that 
if  he  had  enough  faith  he  could  fly.  The  author  carries  us  through  a 
good  many  pages  of  sincerely  humorous  situations,  and  we  are  not  aware 
of  the  fact,  as  we  read,  that  we  are  being  preached  to,  and  that  before 
the  story  shall  have  finished  there  will  have  been  borne  in  upon  our 
hearts  an  unforgettable  lesson  that  will  long  remain  with  us.  I  would 
like  to  quote  that  lesson  as  I  received  it  from  that  story. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


89 


An  old  scientist  has  gone  to  interview  the  flying  Yorkshireman, 
and  he  says: 

"The  *  *  *  education  of  the  *  *  *  world  abhors  that  which  surpasses 
factual  knowledge.  So  your  newspaper  men  will  write  all  about  mass 
hynotism  and  wires  *  *  *  and  auto-suggestion.  They'll  use  a  lot  of 
phrases  they  don't  understand,  about  matters  they  cannot  comprehend. 
They'll  find  any  excuse  but  the  simple  truth — that  you  are  capable  of 
levitation — in  other  words  that  you  can  fly." 

And  in  response  to  the  flying  Yorkshireman's  question  as  to  who 
he  was,  the  scholar  replied : 

"  "I'm  just  a  student  at  the  Research  Center.  I'm  trying  to  find  out 
how  to  defeat  the  rebellion  of  man's  body  and  brain  against  modern 
life,  modern  foods,  modern  thoughts.  Why  is  cancer  growing — mental 
ills  ?   Why  do  cells  multiply  malignantly  ?  *  *  * 

"You  and  your  kind"  (referring  to  the  man  who  could  fly)  "have 
been  tortured,  drowned,  and  burned  at  the  stake  *  *  *  all  because  the 
world  is  weak  and  ignorant  and  inhuman.  *  *  *  You  see  the  world  will 
do  anything  but  believe.  Although  they  see  they  won't  believe.  Even 
back  when  the  world  was  much  simpler  they  wouldn't.  They  tried  to 
explain  it  within  their  knowledge.  *  *  *  And  so,  even  today  man  will 
get  an  explanation  to  satisfy  him  within  our  present  limited  knowledge. 
Today  that  knowledge  is  even  more  fiercely  narrowed  between  the 
bits  of  misinformation  that  we  scientists  have  predigested  for  man.  And 
you  .  .  .  arrive  in  a  world  in  which  the  more  we  prove  the  less  people 
believe. 

"For  you  have  come  to  a  world  where  *  *  *  surgeons  perform 
miracles ;  scientists  prove  matter  lives  forever,  and  mathematics  show 
that  the  hereafter  in  time  and  space  is  indisputable.  And  all  this  in  a 
world  that  no  longer  believes  in  miracles  and  the  hereafter.  The  more 
we  prove,  the  less  the  rational  mind  believes.  There  is  no  more  faith, 
simple  and  blessed.  For  the  world  has  had  too  much  proof  and  too 
much  logic  *  *  *  and  in  getting  them  we  have  lost  the  faculty  of  having 
faith  in  the  incomprehensible." 

HARMONY  OF  FAITH  AND  KNOWLEDGE  THE  HOPE  OF  THE  WORLD 

We  may  thank  our  Father  in  heaven  that  this  generalized  descrip- 
tion does  not  apply  to  many  among  us.  There  are  things  of  which  we 
have  not  seen  the  substance,  of  which  we  are  more  surely  aware  than 
many  things  that  we  have  seen.  I  have  never  seen  God  nor  a  resurrected 
being,  nor  the  place  where  departed  spirits  dwell.  But  I  have  read  the 
words  of  God.  I  have  seen  them  operate  in  the  lives  of  men.  I  have 
read  the  testimony  of  those  who  have  seen  him,  and  I  have  approached 
him  in  prayer  and  my  prayers  have  been  answered.  I  know  that  he  is 
there  as  surely  as  I  know  there  is  an  invisible  something  which  carries 
my  words  far  beyond  this  auditorium  by  that  force  or  power  or  energy, 
or  whatever  it  may  be,  which  carries  my  words  far  beyond  the  limits 
of  this  auditorium,  but  which  no  one  has  ever  seen, 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  7  Second  Day 

There  is  very  little  hope  in  knowing  that  two  atoms  of  hydrogen 
and  one  of  oxygen  make  water,  unless  these  other  things  we  know  also, 
but  it  is  glorious  to  know  both.  Some  day  I  hope  to  know  all  things, 
but  since  there  is  an  infinite  process,  I  hope  always  to  have  the  thrill 
of  learning  new  things,  but  always  hand  in  hand  with  faith,  and  to  the 
end  that  human  happiness  and  progress  may  be  furthered. 

I  hope  that  we  shall  always  have  freedom  of  thought,  freedom  of 
research,  freedom  of  scholarship;  that  science  and  discovery  will  go  on 
and  on.  But  I  hope  also  that  the  world's  factual  and  material  knowledge 
will  never  again  so  far  outstrip  our  moral  and  spiritual  use  of  them  as 
they  have  done  in  the  past  decade. 

I  hope  that  we  and  our  children  may  always  have  faith  in  our 
homes,  in  our  halls  of  learning,  in  our  halls  of  government,  in  our 
churches,  and  in  all  the  ways  of  life. 

By  this  faith  that  I  have  I  know  that  no  fragment  of  truth  in 
whatever  field  will  ever  be  found  that  does  not  fit  harmoniously  into 
the  great  mosaic  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  welfare  of  men, 
the  children  of  God.  What  more  could  mortal  man  ask?  It  makes  life 
all  that  it  could  well  be. 

By  this  same  faith  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  he  has  spoken 
and  does  speak  through  prophets ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet, 
through  whom  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  was  brought  about,  and 
that  the  same  authority  has  been  with  all  his  successors  whom  I  hope 
to  follow  all  the  days  of  my  life.  I  am  grateful  for  this  faith  which 
amounts,  so  far  as  I  am  concerned,  to  knowledge. 

I  think  the  last  word  will  never  be  spoken  on  the  subject  of  faith, 
and  I  hope  that  all  the  factual  knowledge  of  this  world  may  be  harmon- 
ized with  all  that  lies  beyond  the  realm  of  the  limited  knowledge  and 
material  boundaries  for  the  glory  of  God  and  the  exaltation  of  his 
children. 

This  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


The  Branch  Agricultural  College  Chorus  sang  the  "Hallelujah" 
Chorus  (Handel). 

Elder  H.  Melvin  Rollins,  President  of  the  Lyman  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'  clock  a.  m.,  Sunday,  October.  8. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


91 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Sunday  morning,  October  8,  at  10  o'clock. 

Every  seat  and  available  space  in  the  great  Tabernacle  auditorium 
and  galleries  was  occupied  long  before  the  time  to  commence  this  ses- 
sion of  the  Conference.  In  addition,  the  large  Assembly  Hall  immediately 
south  of  the  Tabernacle  was  crowded  with  people,  and  hundreds  of 
others  congregated  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  listened  by 
means  of  amplifying  equipment  that  had  been  installed,  to  the  Conference 
proceedings  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  that  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  would  furnish  the  music  for  this  session. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice 
in  the  Day  of  Salvation." 

Elder  William  F.  Webster,  President  of  the  Wayne  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

UNCERTAINTY  AFFECTS  MANKIND 

The  world  seems  just  now  to  be  uncommonly  burdened,  and  life 
full  of  cares.  Many  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  are  groaning  under 
sore  afflictions.  Everywhere  is  foreboding,  a  presage  of  evils  yet  to 
come.  Anxiety  haunts  men  with  its  tortures.  Confidence  in  the  or- 
dinary stabilities  of  life  is  all  but  shattered.  Fear,  bred  of  uncertainty, 
robs  living  of  its  joy. 

And  the  tragedy  of  it  all  is  that  the  ills,  actual  and  feared,  which 
most  sorely  afflict  mankind  and  spread  the  pall  of  gloom  so  heavy  over 
the  land,  are  altogether  of  man's  own  making. 

It  is  not  dread  of  the  angry  elements,  nor  of  ferocious  beasts,  nor  of 
devouring  insects,  nor  of  diseases  or  famine,  or  scourge  or  pestilence 
that  fills  men's  souls,  but  dread  of  the  bestial  cruelties  of  their  own 
fellow  men. 

MAN  FINDS  WAYS  TO  CONQUER  ILLS 

Always  uncertainties  have  attended  upon  life,  but  these  we  have 
normally  been  able,  more  or  less,  to  catalogue,  have  learned  to  expect, 
and  have  accommodated  ourselves  to,  or  have  found  ways  to  conquer. 
We  have,  for  example,  always  known  that  death  would  come,  and 
have  not  known  the  time  nor  manner  of  its  coming.  Here  we  have 
been  always  face  to  face  with  both  the  inevitable  and  the  uncertain, 
but  we  have  not  wasted  much  time  fretting  about  that.    In  spite  of 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Day 

its  imminence  and  inevitability  we  have  been  able  to  go  on  ordering 
our  lives  and  shaping  our  courses  much  as  if  for  us  individually  life 
would  go  on  without  interruption. 

The  issue  of  our  enterprises,  too,  has  ever  been  in  doubt,  but  that 
has  never  deterred  us  from  embarking  upon  them.  The  farmer  knows 
that  frost  or  drouth  or  pests  may  ruin  his  crop,  but  still  he  sows  in 
the  expectation  that  he  will  reap,  and  with  renewed  faith  sows  again 
after  each  occasional  ruinous  devastation. 

The  tradesman,  the  manufacturer,  the  merchant,  likewise,  knows 
that  flood  or  fire  may  raze  his  plants  and  destroy  his  goods.  He  never- 
theless builds  and  stores  and  fabricates.  Earthquakes  may  rock  cities 
and  level  the  handiwork  of  man  to  the  ground  but  upon  the  ruins  he 
will  build  again. 

None  of  these  things  destroys  faith  in  life  nor  puts  out  the  flame 
of  hope  that  burns  "eternal  in  the  human  breast."  We  gird  ourselves 
manfully  for  the  conflicts  with  nature,  and  press  on  buoyantly  and  hope- 
fully in  our  struggle  for  dominion  over  it.  We  derive  keen  joy  out 
of  devising  means  to  circumvent  the  obstacles  which  it  opposes  to  our 
endeavors.  Much  of  the  real  zest  for  life  comes  out  of  the  struggle 
for  supremacy  over  the  destructive  powers  of  the  elements  and  over 
the  depredations  of  insect  and  of  beast.  It  is  as  if  in  the  contest  we 
are  playing  the  role  for  which  man  was  cast  as  a  denizen  of  earth. 
We  fit  into  it  and  derive  happiness  out  of  playing  well  our  parts. 

men's  acts  cause  suffering 

But  faced  with  the  barbarous  atrocities  of  our  own  fellow  men 
we  stand  shaken  and  dismayed.  Their  capability  for  devising  and 
remorselessly  executing  exquisite  torment  and  suffering  have  gone  far 
to  destroy  faith  in  the  goodness  of  the  world  and  the  capacity  of  man 
to  emerge  out  of  barbarism  or  rise  to  the  ideal  plane  which  has  been  the 
dream  of  the  philosopher,  the  vision  of  the  poet  and  the  promise  of  the 
prophets. 

In  contemplation  of  the  sorry  spectacle,  almost  we  succumb  to  the 
sentiments  of  this  doleful  dirge  of  Byron's : 

How  beautiful  is  this  visible  world ! 

How  glorious  in  its  action  and  itself ! 

But  we,  who  name  ourselves  its  sovereigns,  we 

Half  dust,  half  deity,  alike  unfit 

To  sink  or  soar,  with  our  mixed  essence  make 

A  conflict  of  its  elements  and  breathe 

The  breath  of  degradation  and  of  pride 

Contending  with  low  wants  and  lofty  wills 

Till  our  mortality  predominates 

And  men  are — what  they  name  not  to  themselves, 

And  trust  not  to  each  other. 

REMEDY  GIVEN  IN  TEACHINGS  OF  CHRIST 

And  for  these  devastating  ills  there  is  one  only  remedy — the  taming 
of  the  savagery  of  men.    For  that  the  prescription  was  given  to  the 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


93 


world  nearly  2000  years  ago  and  illustrated  in  a  life  then  lived.  It  em- 
braces every  essential  of  human  conduct — every  requisite  to  a  contented 
spirit,  and  is  summarized  in  these  words : 

Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 
On  these  two  commandments  hang,  all  the  law  and  the  prophets. 

As  signified  by  the  last  sentence  of  this  declaration,  the  specification 
for  happy,  joyous  living  is  complete.  Nothing  needs  to  be  added.  In  it 
are  comprehended  every  mandate  of  the  law  and  all  the  teachings  of  the 
prophets — everything  essential  to  man's  complete  emancipation.  Im- 
plicit in  the  specification  is  the  requirement  for  humility,  charity,  help- 
fulness, sacrifice  and  self-denial,  as  opposed  to  arrogance,  lust  for  do- 
minion, selfishness,  cruelty,  aggrandizement  and  hate. 

The  Master  taught  love,  but  today  men  preach  hate — hate  of  gov- 
ernments— outside  their  own,  and  sometimes  even  of  them — hate  of 
races,  hate  of  peoples,  hate  of  classes,  hate  of  neighbor,  hate  of  com- 
petitors, hate  of  rivals,  hate  of  the  good  fortune  of  others,  hate  of 
everyone  of  opposing  views.  The  fruits  of  that  hate  are  strife  and 
destruction  and  individual  unhappiness.  It  is  hard  to  think  of  any 
other  thing  that  today  causes  so  much  misery  in  the  world.  Because 
of  it  governments  are  assaulted  and  nations  destroyed ;  men  coerced  and 
force  made  triumphant;  enterprise  throttled  and  men  condemned  to 
needless  idleness  while  hunger  stalks  in  lands  of  plenty. 

Banish  hate  out  of  human  hearts  and  this  earth  would  be  an  idyllic 
abiding  place.  It  requires  a  robust  faith  still  to  persist  in  ^carrying  the 
message  of  hope  and  love  in  the  face  of  the  little  petty  meannesses  of 
human  nature,  the  artful  cunning,  the  base  intrigue,  the  brazen  duplicity 
which  with  such  monotonous  regularity  frustrate  efforts  for  curing  our 
man-made  woes. 

JESUS  POINTED  THE  TRUE  WAY 

It  cost  Jesus  his  life,  but  he  still  directed  that  the  teaching  go  on. 
Much  of  his  life  was  spent  training  and  preparing  disciples  to  spread 
the  word  after  he  himself  should  be  gone.  It  remains  today  the  only 
hope  of  the  world.  Nor  need  we  despair,  for  in  all  lands  there  still  are 
vast  numbers  whose  consciences  revolt  against  cruelty  and  degradation, 
and  rise  to  meet  the  ennobling  appeal  of  the  spirit  of  the  Master.  So 
long  as  that  remains  true  there  is  ground  for  faith  in  the  ultimate 
consummation  of  his  promise.  He  pointed  the  only  way  by  which  his 
purpose  may  be  realized.  It  is  the  peaceful  method  of  teaching  and 
persuasion. 

He  taught  reformation  of  life  through  transformation  of  the  spirit. 
He  sent  his  disciples  out  to  teach,  not  to  compel.  He  himself  used  no 
compulsions.  Compulsion  teaches  nothing  to  the  spirit.  It  destroys 
the  soul.   It  produces  no  enduring  benefits.   He  relied  upon  the  stirrings 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 

of  the  soul  as  the  means  through  which  men's  spirits  would  be  made 
better  and  the  world  happier.    Said  he : 

For  from  within,  out  of  the  heart  of  men,  proceed  evil  thoughts, 
*  *  *  murders, 

Thefts,  covetousness,  wickedness,  deceit,  lasciviousness,  an  evil  eye, 
blasphemy,  pride,  foolishness. 

POWER  OF  PUBLIC  OPINION 

No  law  ever  made  could  change  the  secret  promptings  of  the  heart 
nor  alter  human  desire.  Neither  can  these  be  destroyed  by  the  power 
of  might.  Only  a  rebirth  can  do  that.  Literally  and  truly  man  must 
be  born  of  the  spirit  before  he  can  so  much  as  see  either  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  or  true  safety  and  happiness  in  this  life.  The* impositions  of 
force  now  strident  in  the  world,  whether  of  classes  or  of  nations,  or 
whether  by  armed  might  or  official  intimidation,  or  attempted  control 
of  the  spirits  of  men  by  the  edicts  of  law,  can  bring  neither  happiness 
nor  lasting  peace. 

Current  history  is  eloquent  of  the  power  of  propagated  ideas.  When 
Italian  youth  stand  before  maps  exhibiting  the  ancient  dominion  of 
Rome,  extending  from  Scotland  to  Ethiopia  and  from  Spain  to  the 
Euphrates,  it  is  easy  to  put  into  their  heads  the  notion  that  extent  of 
power  is  glory  and  that  what  was  may  be  again,  so  a  nation  can  be  put 
on  the  march.  The  whole  course  of  life,  of  individuals  and  of  nations, 
is  shaped  by  the  nature  of  the  ideas  that  gain  currency  among  them. 
In  a  very  literal  sense  thought  rules  the  world.  Public  opinion  is  nothing 
more  nor  less  than  the  thought  that  has  become  common  to  the  mass  of 
the  people.  No  other  human  force  is  comparable  in  power.  Before  it 
all  opposition  goes  down.  Supported  by  it,  might  claims  the  right  of 
conquest,  and  nations  mourn;  the  destruction  of  life,  and  of  the  homes- 
that  shelter  it,  is  made  the  path  of  glory,  and  the  charlatan  rules. 
Opposed  by  it  laws  fall  into  desuetude,  armies  disband  and  the  cry  of  the 
demagogue  is  stilled. 

The  fashioning  and  shaping  of  thought,  the  dissemination  of  ideas, 
the  molding  of  public  opinion,  is  the  greatest  and  most  important  business 
in  the  world.  Good  or  evil  consequence  depends  upon  the  issue  whether 
exalted  or  debased  thoughts  gain  acceptance.  Only  as  compatible  ideas 
prevail  can  the  world  be  fashioned  to  the  heart's  desire.  It  was  upon 
this  principle  that  Jesus  relied  for  the  establishment  of  his  kingdom. 
He  provided  the  best  materials  for  wholesome  thinking  and  righteous 
living  that  have  ever  been  offered  to  man ;  the  plane  to  which  public 
opinion  must  rise  if  serene  happiness  is  ever  to  be  the  earthly  lot  of 
mortals. 

They  are  difficult,  because  they  are  ideal.  They  depend  upon  control 
of  selfish,  unholy  desire  for  fulfillment  on  the  long  range  view — Evil, 
on  the  other  hand,  always  makes  its  appeal  to  the  immediate  want.  It 
offers  the  easy  and  alluring  way.  It  is  the  basis  of  the  harrangue  of  the 
soap  box  orator,  the  epithet  hurler,  and  the  name  caller.  Said  a  writer 
almost  a  century  ago: 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN  95 


The  crowd  always  sides  with  mediocre  men  who  speak  in  redundant 
phrases  with  vibrant  voices,  with  trivial,  yet  powerful  language. 

KEEPING  GOD'S  COMMANDS  WILL  BRING  PEACE 

Our  course — the  course  of  all  men  who  love  their  country  or  their 
God — is  clear.  It  is  to  be  as  diligent  in  spreading  the  principles  of  right 
living,  and  in  unmasking  deception  and  demagoguery,  as  are  the  propa- 
gandists in  the  spread  of  their  poisonous  nostrums,  and  to  be  equally 
adept  with  these  latter  in  getting  their  message  accepted,  and  the  public 
will  established. 

When  God  had  finished  giving  the  law  to  Israel,  he  said  to  them 
through  Moses : 

For  this  commandment  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  it  is  not  hidden 
from  thee,  neither  is  it  far  off. 

It  is  not  in  heaven,  that  thou  shouldest  say,  Who  shall  go  up  for  us 
to  heaven,  and  bring  it  unto  us,  that  we  may  hear  it,  and  do  it? 

Neither  is  it  beyond  the  sea,  that  thou  shouldest  say,  Who  shall  go  over 
the  sea  for  us,  and  bring  it  unto  us,  that  we  may  hear  it,  and  do  it  ? 

But  the  word  is  very  nigh  unto  thee,  in  thy  mouth,  and  in  thy  heart, 
that  thou  mayest  do  it. 

See,  I  have  set  before  thee  this  day  life  and  good,  and  death  and  evil : 
*  *  *  therefore  choose  life,  that  both  thou  and  thy  seed  may  live. 

It  is  for  us ;  it  is  for  all  the  churches ;  it  is  for  all  good  men  every- 
where to  join  in  the  crusade  of  teaching  and  persuading  and  regenerating 
the  hearts  of  men,  for  the  message  is  neither  hidden,  nor  in  heaven, 
nor  beyond  the  sea  that  we  need  to  fetch  it.  It  is  nigh  at  hand.  It  is 
in  the  commandments  of  God;  in  them  is  life  for  man  and  his  seed 
forever. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10:30  to  11  o'clock,  as  a  part  of  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  session  of  the  Conference,  a  program  of  choral  and 
organ  music  was  presented  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ,  and 
broadcast  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  Columbia 
Broadcasting  Company's  network,  throughout  the  United  States  and 
Canada,  and  by  means  of  short  wave  to  points  in  Europe.  This  broad- 
cast originated  over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  the  following 
program  was  given: 


"Now  Thank  We  All  Our  God"  (Cruger-Mueller)  Choir 

"Allegro  Maestoso"  (Handel)   ..'  Organ 

"An  Angel  from  on  High"  (Tullidge)   Choir 

"If  Thou  But  Suffer  God  to  Guide  Thee"  (Bach)   Organ 

"Holiness  Becometh  the  House  of  the  Lord"  (Stephens). .Choir 

"O  Lord  of  Hosts"  (Careless)   Organ 

"How  Blest  Are  They"  (Tschaikowsky)   Choir 

The  Choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.    Organ  ac- 


companiments and  Organ  solo  presentations  were  played  by  Alexander 
Schreiner. 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Das 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 


Immediately  following  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast 
there  was  presented,  as  part  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Conference, 
Columbia  Broadcasting  Company's  Church  of  the  Air  service  as  follows : 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Re- 
deemer of  Israel." 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

FOUNDATIONS  OF  PEACE 

A  recent  notable  book  presents  the  life  philosophies  of  twenty-one 
living  persons  of  international  renown.  Each  contributor  interprets 
the  meaning  of  life  differently.  The  essays  resemble  the  frayed,  flying 
ends  of  a  rope;  each  a  strand  of  truth,  but  of  little  strength  and  no 
organization.  The  resulting  picture  is  one  of  utter  confusion ;  a  reflection 
of  the  world's  present  chaos  in  matters  pertaining  to  human  conduct 
and  consequent  happiness. 

One  of  the  writers  accepts  God;  the  others  ignore  or  deny  the 
existence  of  an  intelligent  power  higher  than  man.  Several  imply  that, 
as  a  means  of  winning  human  happiness,  Christianity  has  failed.  Such 
airy  opinions,  commonly  current,  explain  our  distracted  world. 

THE  GOSPEL  WHEN  LIVED  BLESSES  MANKIND 

Christianity  has  not  failed.  Human  history,  from  the  days  of 
Adam,  reveals  that,  if  but  one  Gospel  principle  is  used,  under  any  name, 
mankind  is  blessed  and  prospered.  Man's  peace  and  prosperity  have 
risen  or  fallen  with  the  degree  of  his  obedience  to  Gospel  truths. 

The  failure  of  the  Christian  world  to  reach  its  heart's  desire  lies 
with  the  Christians,  not  with  Christianity.  As  an  ornament,  Christianity 
has  no  special  claim  for  consideration;  it  blossoms  into  human  value 
only  when  used.  Man  has  failed  to  accept  the  life-giving  truths  of  the 
Gospel.  That  has  been  his  failure.  Thereby  hangs  the  whole  tale  of 
human  misery.  It  would  be  a  beneficent  experience  to  have  Christendom 
practice  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

MEN'S  CHOICE  BRINGS  GOOD  OR  EVIL 

In  the  moral  world  the  ever  constant  battle  is  between  good  and 
evil.  Man  is  a  free  agent.  Whenever  he  has  chosen  good,  he  has 
approached  joy;  when  he  has  followed  evil,  the  ills  of  the  world  have 
overtaken  him.  The  present  chaos  on  earth,  of  warfare  and  its  attendant 
horrors,  are  of  man's  own  making.  He  has  chosen  to  allow  evil  to  rule 
him;  and  he  must  pay  the  price  of  his  folly. 

STUDY  OF  HUMAN  LIFE  NEGLECTED 


The  first  and  most  fundamental  error  has  been  that  in  man's  mighty 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


97 


search  for  the  truths  of  the  universe,  which  has  made  our  civilization, 
he  has  confined  himself  almost  wholly,  to  the  material  world.  Men  are 
victoriously  certain  of  physical  laws — there  they  face  the  light;  but 
confronting  spiritual  laws,  they  stand  in  cowed  uncertainty — facing  the 
darkness. 

Therefore,  men  have  fumbled  in  the  dark,  failing  to  find  the  road 
they  would  travel.  In  fear  they  have  been  set  for  constant  battle.  "A 
tooth  for  a  tooth,  an  eye  for  an  eye"  has  become  their  slogan,  however 
carefully  veneered  with  honeyed  words — and  war  and  contention,  famine 
and  pestilence,  blood  and  horror,  have  filled  the  earth. 

Examples  of  our  one  sided  knowledge  are  many.  The  giant  star 
Betelgeuse,  millions  of  light  years  away  in  space,  has  been  weighed  and 
measured;  but  the  intelligent  domination  of  the  universe  remains  a 
subject  of  controversy.  The  law  of  gravity,  by  which  all  things  are 
held  together,  and  reduced  to  orderly  motion,  is  a  school  boy's  common- 
place ;  but  that  man  is  on  earth  under  an  intelligent  plan  is  held  to  be 
unproved.  The  assembling  of  electrons  into  atoms,  and  atoms  into 
molecules,  to  form  the  world  known  to  our  senses,  is  as  a  clearly  painted 
picture;  but  the  origin  and  destiny  of  man  are  to  most  men  among  the 
mysteries  of  life.  The  purpose  of  adaptation  in  the  coloring  of  a  butter- 
fly's wing  is  understood ;  but  human  life  is  often  held  to  be  purposeless. 
An  ant-hill  or  a  beehive  shows  laws  of  relationship  for  common  good ; 
but  human  conduct  is  measured  only  by  personal  expediency,  ever  chang- 
ing, never  fixed  or  certain.  Science  gives  no  hint  as  to  whether  dynamite 
shall  be  used  to  destroy  a  defenseless  city  or  steel  be  made  into  swords 
or  plows. 

It  is  no  wonder  that  as  a  result,  the  ethics  of  our  day  is  the  ethics 
of  self-preservation — hard,  self-willed,  material — the  ethics  of  every 
war;  and  that  the  history  of  civilized  times  is  strung  upon  a  crimson 
trail  of  blood. 

SPIRITUAL  KNOWLEDGE  OBTAINED  BY  PROPER  SEEKING 

There  can  be  no  hope  of  permanent  peace  or  true  prosperity  on 
earth  until  men  turn  their  thought  and  power  to  the  elucidation  of  the 
spiritual  problems  and  issues  of  life.  Intelligent  man  has  the  power  to 
discover  spiritual  as  well  as  physical  laws.  "Knock  and  it  shall  be  opened, 
seek  and  ye  shall  find."  If  as  much  time  and  energy  were  spent  to 
search  out  the  true  basis  of  human  conduct  as  are  given  to  any  one  subject 
in  our  schools,  or  in  our  social  and  political  activities,  the  foundations 
of  faith  would  be  well  laid.  Then,  the  existence  of  God,  for  example, 
would  be  known  with  the  same  assurance  that  the  sun  shines. 

An  equally  basic  cause  of  the  world's  confusion  is  the  lack  of 
agreement  concerning  the  spiritual  truths  possessed  by  humanity.  In 
the  world  of  physical  phenomena  men  generally  see  alike;  but  in  the 
study  of  the  spiritual  domain  personal  opinions  and  philosophical  ab- 
stractions are  allowed  entrance.  There  is  constant  quibbling  about 
definitions.  God,  the  first  of  man's  spiritual  concerns,  is  to  one  group, 
though  of  infinite  majesty,  a  personal  Being  of  the  order  of  man ;  to 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Dag 

another  a  personal  Being  of  an  order  wholly  different  from  man;  to 
another  an  impersonal,  beneficent  power  filling  the  universe;  and  to 
another  only  one  of  the  many  forces  of  nature.  Contention  and  warfare 
arise  over  varying  definitions  or  descriptions  of  beliefs.  Unity  of  belief 
must  precede  full  peace  on  earth.  This  can  be  done,  if  men  will  shed  their 
preconceived  opinions,  and  make  truth  the  sole  objective  of  their  search. 
The  simple  tests  of  truth  are  as  applicable  in  the  spiritual  as  in  the 
physical  world. 

To  convert  the  world's  battlefields  into  cornfields ;  strife  into  peace ; 
and  fear  into  faith  and  trust,  men  must  earnestly  seek  out  and  come  to 
agreement  concerning  three  fundamentals :  the  true  God ;  man's  relation- 
ship to  God  and  his  f ellowmen ;  and  the  purpose  of  human  existence. 
Only  as  certainty  about  these  is  achieved  can  humanity  hope  for  release 
from  the  reign  of  terror  upon  the  earth. 

THE  KNOWLEDGE  OF  GOD  NECESSARY  TO  MAN'S  WELL-BEING 

First,  men  must  find  God,  if  peace  shall  rule.  To  millions  of  people 
he  is  but  a  name,  of  no  real  consequence.  The  leaders  of  one  great 
nation  have  seriously  proposed  the  return  to  heathen  man-made  gods. 
The  true  God  may  be  found.  It  is  not  difficult.  Hosts  of  earnest 
men  and  women  have  found  him,  and  know  that  the  universe  is  directed 
by  a  dominant,  yet  comprehensible,  intelligent,  creative,  loving  Being, 
who,  as  a  personal  Being,  can  and  does  speak  to  His  children  on  earth. 

Whoever  finds  this  God  wins  certainty;  and  conquers  fear,  the 
ancient  enemy  of  man,  the  distilled  essence  of  uncertainty.  A  sense  of 
power  and  justice  comes  to  him  who  learns  that  there  is  no  chance  in 
the  universe,  but  that  the  laws  of  nature  are  the  laws  of  God,  and  that 
humanity  lives  under  a  system  operated  by  an  intelligent  mind.  To 
find  God  is  humanity's  first  need.  How  many  of  you,  in  this  vast 
congregation,  seen  and  unseen,  have  learned  to  know  him  ? 

ALL  MEN  ARE  BROTHERS 

Second,  many  sorrows  of  man  are  due  to  a  false  conception  of 
man's  relationship  to  the  Lord  and  his  fellowman.  There  can  be  little 
respect  for  human  welfare  or  life,  if  man  is  but  a  higher  animal,  an 
accidental  intruder  on  earth,  or  a  creature  of  God,  made  at  his  pleasure, 
as  children  make  mud  pies.  Man  is  a  very  son  of  God,  begotten  of 
God ;  he  was  with  the  Father  in  the  beginning.  Since  he  is  of  a  divine 
pedigree,  with  a  spark  of  divinity  within  him,  he  rises  immeasurably 
in  the  world  of  things. 

Then,  the  brotherhood  of  man,  spoken  of  so  lightly,  often  with  a 
sneer,  acquires  a  profound  meaning.  All  men  are  children  of  God ; 
brothers  in  fact ;  of  the  same  divine  pedigree ;  with  the  same  high  destiny ; 
under  the  same  loving  guidance  of  the  Father  of  the  spirits  of  men.  Then, 
every  man  must  assume  some  of  God's  own  responsibility  in  caring  for 
the  children  of  men.  A  person  cannot  let  his  very  brothers  go  hungry, 
unclothed,  shelterless  or  bowed  down  in  sorrow.    He  cannot  be  cruel  to 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


99 


them,  and  be  true  to  his  royal  descent.  Had  this  true  relationship 
among  men  been  fixed  in  human  minds,  fewer  bombs  would  have 
fallen  on  Europe.  Again,  do  we  of  this  vast  audience,  seen  and  unseen, 
look  upon  our  fellows  as  our  very  brothers,  and  strive  to  give  them 
brotherly  help? 

A  PURPOSE  IN  LIFE  NECESSARY  FOR  HAPPINESS 

Third,  the  true  purpose  of  life  must  be  understood.  When  the 
idea  of  chance  in  the  universe  is  driven  out,  purpose  in  all  things  steps 
in.  The  life  of  man  on  earth  is  purposeful.  Mortal  life  is  part  of  a 
divine  program  for  the  eternal  progress  of  man.  The  earth  is  designed 
for  man's  progress ;  and  man's  efforts  should  be  in  harmony  with  this 
purpose.  There  would  be  no  warfare,  if  that  purpose  were  understood, 
and  held  inviolate  among  mankind.  May  I  ask  each  of  you :  Is  your  life 
ordered  for  progress? 

These  are  truths  the  world  needs  to  know  and  accept :  The  existence 
of  God;  the  real  brotherhood  of  man;  and,  an  intelligent  purpose  in 
life.  Upon  these  foundations,  peace,  plenty  and  prosperity,  and  all  the 
gifts  of  our  bounteous  earth  would  be  available  to  all  men.  No  longer 
then  would  man  drift  upon  the  ocean  of  uncertainty.  The  course  of  his 
life's  voyage  would  be  laid  out  before  him.  His  life's  journey,  guided 
by  knowing  and  doing,  faith  and  works,  would  lead  him  to  the  house 
of  happiness. 

Another  question  presents  itself :  How  do  these  high  truths,  found 
and  accepted,  express  themselves  in  human  lives?  How  may  those 
who  shall  bring  peace  upon  earth,  be  recognized?  What  quality  sums 
up  Christian  living? 

There  is  a  sure,  unfailing  mark  of  the  true  followers  of  Jesus,  the 
Christ.  This  mark  is  the  power  to  forget  oneself  in  the  needs  of  others — 
we  call  it  unselfishness,  the  highest  achievement  of  man.  It  is  the  only 
means  by  which  swords  shall  be  beaten  into  plowshares  and  the  earth 
become  as  Paradise. 

WHAT  ABOUT  OURSELVES? 

Should  we  not  in  this  trying  day  search  our  own  hearts  ?  We  need 
go  no  farther. 

Are  we  ready  to  give  of  our  surplus,  to  give  of  ourselves,  to  those 
in  need?  Is  it  a  joy  to  us  to  give  to  the  Lord  that  which  he  requests 
of  us? 

Is  there  unselfishness  in  our  homes?  Does  kindness  rule  there? 
Does  an  unselfish  love  direct  our  family  life?  Then  we  have  made  the 
beginning  of  the  world's  conquest  of  peace. 

What  about  our  neighbor  ?  Are  we  solicitous  of  his  welfare  ?  Do 
we  look  charitably  upon  his  weaknesses?  Do  we  recognize  his  virtues 
without  jealousy?   Do  we  try  to  love  him? 

In  our  business  affairs  do  we  refuse  to  take  even  lawful  advantage 
of  our  f  ellowman  ?  Will  we  divide  possible  profits  with  him  ? 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 

You  shepherds,  officials  of  the  Church,  are  you  true  fathers  to 
the  flock,  giving  love  and  more  love  to  your  brethren  in  your  charge? 
These  are  the  simple  unfailing  tests. 

If  this  congregation,  as  followers  of  the  Prince  of  Peace,  would 
order  their  lives  for  unselfishness,  a  notable  beginning  would  be  made 
toward  world  peace.  Others  seeing  the  beneficent  results  would  follow 
our  example,  and  the  siprit  of  goodwill  would  spread  among  men. 
Shall  we  not  resolutely  try  to  do  so? 

UNSELFISHNESS  WOULD  HEAL  THE  WORLD'S  ILLS 

Soul-lifting  is  the  sequence  of  events  when  unselfishness  rises  in 
the  human  heart;  when  the  real  brotherhood  of  men  is  accepted,  when 
there  is  a  surrender  to  the  divine  program!  Charity  and  mercy  soon 
flow  from  the  unselfish  man.  He  looks  with  forgiving  compassion 
upon  the  weaknesses  of  others.  He  seeks  to  succor  all  who  are  in  need. 
Such  service  begets  love,  the  impelling  principle  of  divine  action.  Peace 
is  the  child  of  love — the  peace  of  soul  that  frees  man  to  progress  towards 
the  likeness  of  God.  Thus  is  the  happy  ascending  sequence :  Unselfish- 
ness, charity,  love,  peace.  All  creation  is  pleading,  praying  and  weeping 
that  unselfishness  may  be  established  among  men. 

SELFISHNESS  THE  CAUSE  OF  EVIL  IN  THE  WORLD 

In  contrast,  how  repulsive  is  selfishness!  In  its  godless  world  of 
uncertain  chance,  men  are  brothers  only  by  courtesy;  rather,  they  are 
enemies  from  birth.  "Each  for  himself"  is  the  slogan.  The  evil  in 
man  blossoms  into  cruelty — at  home,  in  business,  even  in  his  imagined 
loves.  The  first-born  of  selfishness  is  greed,  dripping  at  the  mouth, 
a  never-satisfied  appetite  for  material  possessions,  however  acquired. 
"More  and  more,"  is  greed's  cry.  The  world's  political  history  is  mainly 
the  story  of  man's  appeased  greed.  When  defeated,  as  needs  it  must 
be  in  a  greedy  world,  greed  is  transmuted  into  hate  of  all  who  stand  in 
its  way  or  do  better  in  a  grasping  world,  a  sour  hate  of  life  itself.  Then, 
as  night  follows  day,  comes  war,  hate's  own  misshaped  child,  unending 
warfare,  hidden  in  human  hearts,  or  spouting  famine  and  pestilence  over 
sodden  fields  of  battle,  until  the  hearts  of  men  are  stilled  with  dread, 
despair,  defeat  and  all  the  other  devils  that  lead  to  death. 

Such  is  the  ungodly  downward  sequence,  the  world's  enemy,  since 
Cain  took  the  life  of  Abel:  selfishness,  greed,  hate  and  war — -pouring 
sorrow  over  the  earth. 

It  is  folly  to  build  great  armaments  of  steel,  for  defense  or  offense, 
and  fail  to  build  the  mightier  weapons  that  issue  from  obedience  to  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Gospel  of  Peace.  Warships,  airships  or 
diplomacy  may  end  a  war,  but  warfare  among  nations  or  business  leaders, 
or  neighbors,  or  in  families,  will  not  cease  until  men  obey  his  word, 
and  seek  unselfishly  and  in  might  to  love  one  another. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


101 


PEACE  AN  INDIVIDUAL  RESPONSIBILITY 

Let  it  not  be  forgotten  that  the  winning  of  peace  for  the  world 
is  a  personal  responsibility.  I  must  order  my  life  for  peace,  as  you  must 
order  yours.  The  units  of  a  nation  are  the  individual  citizens;  in  the 
end,  as  they  are  the  nation  will  become.  For  each  one  of  us  is  the 
message :  I  am  the  maker  of  peace. 

Some  will  say  that  man  is  incapable  of  discovery  of  spiritual  truth 
and  of  sufficient  unselfish  action  to  bring  peace  upon  earth.  That  is 
but  sounding  brass,  the  challenge  of  unbelief. 

There  is  in  every  man  a  deep  store  of  power  which,  when  drawn 
upon,  makes  men  mighty  for  high  endeavor,  gives  more  than  ordinary 
human  strength.  Out  of  the  unseen  world,  that  fount  is  replenished  ; 
it  never  runs  dry.  It  is  the  world's  pity  that  so  few  use  it,  for  it  gives 
not  only  power  to  obey  and  to  do,  but  courage,  hope,  understanding, 
faith,  love  and  all  other  virtues  and  gifts  of  heaven.  Man,  of  divine 
pedigree,  can  perform  divinely  acceptable  works,  when  in  prayer  to  God 
he  draws  upon  the  well  of  inner  power  with  which  every  man  is 
endowed.  Peace  will  come  to  earth,  as  the  children  of  earth  use  this 
divinely  given  power  within  them  according  to  the  requirements  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  offers  the  only  practical  approach  to  peace 
and  happiness  on  earth.  These  are  all  old  truths,  but  it  is  well  to  talk 
about  them  in  a  day  when  they  seem  to  have  been  forgotten. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  possessed  of 
divine  knowledge  and  authority,  follows  humbly  in  the  footsteps  of  its 
Master,  the  Man  of  Galilee,  and  pleads  with  its  members  and  all  men 
to  turn  to  truth  and  righteousness,  so  that  peace  may  descend  upon  the 
earth. 

A  choral  group  composed  of  members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang 
the  hymn,  "Come  Thou  Glorious  Day  of  Promise." 

The  music  for  this  broadcast  was  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall.    Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 

(End  of  the  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast) 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "For  the  Strength  of 
the  Hills  we  Bless  Thee." 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

JESUS'  PRAYER  FOR  UNITY 

Holy  Father,  keep  through  thine  own  name  those  whom  thou  hast 
given  me  that  they  may  be  one  as  we  are. 

Neither  pray  I  for  these  alone,  but  for  them  also  which  shall  believe 
on  me  through  their  word ; 

That  they  all  may  be  one :  as  thou,  Father,  art  in  me  and  I  in  thee,  that 
they  also  may  be  one  in  us:  that  the  world  may  believe  in  us.  (John 
17:11-21.) 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Dag 

As  nearly  all  of  you  readily  recognize,  I  have  quoted  from  one  of 
the  most  sublime  prayers  ever  offered  among  men.  It  is  an  Intercessory 
Prayer.  The  occasion  makes  the  things  prayed  for  most  significant. 
In  it  Jesus  makes  unity  preeminent  among  his  followers. 

Unity  and  its  synonyms,  harmony,  goodwill,  peace,  concord,  mutual 
understanding,  express  a  condition  for  which  the  human  heart  constantly 
yearns.   Its  opposites  are  discord,  contention,  strife,  confusion. 

UNITY  IN  THE  HOME 

I  can  imagine  few  if  any  things  more  objectionable  in  the  home  than 
the  absence  of  unity  and  harmony.  On  the  other  hand,  I  know  that  a 
home  in  which  unity,  mutual  helpfulness,  and  love  abide  is  just  a  bit  of 
heaven  on  earth.  I  surmise  that  nearly  all  of  you  can  testify  to  the 
sweetness  of  life  in  homes  in  which  these  virtues  predominate.  Most 
gratefully  and  humbly,  I  cherish  the  remembrance  that  never  once  as  a 
lad  in  the  home  of  my  youth  did  I  ever  see  one  instance  of  discord 
between  father  and  mother,  and  that  goodwill  and  mutual  understanding 
have  been  the  uniting  bond  that  has  held  together  a  fortunate  group  of 
brothers  and  sisters.  Unity,  harmony,  goodwill  are  virtues  to  be  fostered 
and  cherished  in  every  home. 

UNITY  IN  CHURCH  ORGANIZATIONS 

In  branches  and  wards,  there  is  no  virtue  more  conducive  to  progress 
and  spirituality  than  the  presence  of  this  principle.  When  jealousy, 
backbiting,  evil-speaking  supplant  confidence,  self-subjection,  unity,  and 
harmony  the  progress  of  the  organization  is  stifled. 

UNPATRIOTIC  ACTIVITIES  A  MENACE  TO  FREE  GOVERNMENT 

However,  what  really  prompted  me  to  emphasize  this  principle  is  the 
presence  in  our  own  United  States  of  influences  the  avowed  object  of 
which  is  to  sow  discord  and  contention  among  men  with  the  view  of 
undermining,  weakening,  if  not  entirely  destroying  our  constitutional 
form  of  government.  If  I  speak  plainly,  and  in  condemnation  lay  bare 
reprehensible  practices  and  aims  of  certain  organizations,  please  do  not 
think  that  I  harbor  ill-will  or  enmity  in  my  heart  towards  other  United 
States  citizens  whose  views  on  political  policies  do  not  coincide  with 
mine.  But  when  acts  and  schemes  are  manifestly  contrary  to  the  revealed 
word  of  the  Lord,  we  feel  justified  in  warning  people  against  them. 
We  may  be  charitable  and  forbearing  to  the  sinner,  but  must  condemn 
the  sin. 

Timely  references  and  appropriate  warnings  have  been  given  during 
this  Conference  on  the  danger  and  evils  of  war.  There  is  another  danger 
even  more  menacing  than  the  threat  of  invasion  of  a  foreign  foe.  It  is 
the  unpatriotic  activities  and  underhanded  scheming  of  disloyal  groups, 
and  organizations  within  our  own  borders.  This  country  is  so  situated 
geographically  that  there  need  be  little  fear  of  invasion  by  an  outside 
enemy.  Furthermore,  the  government  knowing  who  and  where  the 
enemy  is  can  make  ample  preparation  to  meet  his  attacks.   But  the  secret, 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


103 


seditious  scheming  of  an  enemy  within  our  own  ranks,  hypocritically 
professing  loyalty  to  the  government,  and  at  the  same  time  plotting 
against  it,  is  more  difficult  to  deal  with. 

Disintegration  is  often  more  dangerous  and  more  fatal  than  outward 
opposition.  For  example,  an  individual  can  usually  protect  himself  from 
thunder  showers,  and  even  from  tempests,  from  freezing  weather  or 
intense  heat,  from  drought,  or  floods,  or  other  extremes  in  nature; 
but  he  is  often  helpless  when  poisonous  germs  enter  his  body  or  a 
malignant  growth  begins  to  sap  the  strength  of  some  vital  organ. 

The  Church  is  little  if  at  all  injured  by  persecution  and  calumnies 
from  ignorant,  misinformed  or  malicious  enemies;  a  greater  hindrance 
to  its  progress  comes  from  fault-finders,  shirkers,  commandment-break- 
ers, and  apostate  cliques  within  its  own  ecclesiastical  and  quorum  groups. 

So  it  is  in  government.  It  is  the  enemy  from  within  that  is  most 
menacing,  especially  when  it  threatens  to  disintegrate  our  established 
form  of  government. 

Washington's  greatest  trial 

Perhaps  the  most  gloomy,  discouraging  period  of  the  American 
Revolution  was  when  General  Washington's  army  was  in  Winter  Quar- 
ters at  Valley  Forge.  He  had  fewer  than  10,000  men.  Soldiers  were 
thinly  clad,  some  half  naked,  others  with  no  clothing  but  tattered  blankets 
wrapped  around  them.  "So  many  were  sick  as  the  result  of  privation," 
writes  one  commentator,  "so  many  were  without  coats,  blankets,  hats,  or 
shoes  that  one  wonders  how  the  army  held  together  at  all."  Critical 
and  desperate  as  were  these  conditions,  a  greater  trial  and  sorrow,  I 
surmise,  came  to  Washington  when  some  of  his  friends  such  as  John 
Adams  and  Richard  Henry  Lee  turned  against  him ;  when  General  Gates 
insulted  him  by  sending  reports  direct  to  Congress  instead  of  to  Wash- 
ington, his  superior  officer.  As  carrion  hawks  hover  around  dying 
creatures,  so  in  Washington's  dire  calamity  came  men  to  seek  to  crush 
him — men  who  formed  what  has  been  called  the  "Conway  Cabal,"  a 
contemptible  attempt  to  dishonor  Washington  and  to  supplant  him  by  a 
self-asserting,  arrogant  schemer.  This  internal  discord,  and  such  dis- 
loyalty from  one-time  friends  were  more  crushing  than  were  the  attacks 
of  the  opposing  army. 

ANTI-AMERICANISM  SOWING  DISCORD 

Today  there  are  in  this  country  enemies  in  the  form  of  "isms." 
I  call  them  Anti-Americanisms.  Only  a  few  of  the  leaders  fight  openly 
— most  of  the  army  carry  on  as  termites,  secretly  sowing  discord  and 
undermining  stable  government.  Of  the  truth  of  this  statement  recent 
investigations  made  by  a  committee  of  the  United  States  Senate  bear 
ample  evidence.  Of  the  menace  of  one  of  these,  Dr.  William  F.  Russell, 
Dean  of  Teachers'  College,  Columbia  University,  in  an  address  "How 
to  Tell  a  Communist,  and  How  to  Beat  Him,"  is  one  of  the  many 
authorities  whom  we  might  quote  as  to  the  pernicious  activity  of  these 
groups. 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8 


Third  Day 


A  STATEMENT  AS  TO  COMMUNISM 

He  says : 

Communist  leaders  have  steadily  insisted  that  Communism  cannot  live 
in  just  one  country.  Just  as  we  fought  to  make  "the  world  safe  for  democ- 
racy," so  they  are  fighting  to  make  the  world  safe  for  Communism. 
They  are  fighting  this  fight  today.  Every  country  must  become  Com- 
munistic, according  to  their  idea.  So  they  have  sent  out  missionaries.  They 
have  supplied  them  well  with  funds.  They  have  won  converts.  These 
converts  have  been  organized  into  little  groups  called  "cells,'1'  each  acting 
as  a  unit  under  the  orders  of  a  superior.  It  is  almost  a  military  organization. 
They  attack  where  there  is  unemployment.  They  stir  up  discontent  among 
those  oppressed.  *  *  *  They  work  their  way  into  the  unions,  where  they 
form  compact  blocks.  They  publish  and  distribute  little  papers  and  pam- 
phlets. At  the  New  York  Times  they  pass  out  one  called  "Better  Times." 
At  the  Presbyterian  Hospital  it  is  called  "The  Medical  Worker."  At  the 
College  of  the  City  of  New  York,  it  is  called  "Professor,  Worker,  Student." 
At  Teachers  College  it  is  called  "The  Educational  Vanguard."  These 
are  scurrilous  sheets.  In  one  issue  I  noted  twenty-nine  errors  of  fact. 
After  a  recent  address  of  mine  they  passed  out  a  dodger  attacking  me, 
with  a  deliberate  error  of  fact  in  each  paragraph.  These  pamphlets  cost 
money — more  than  $100  an  issue.  The  idea  is  to  try  to  entice  into  their 
web  those  generous  and  public-spirited  teachers,  preachers,  social  workers 
and  reformers  who  know  distress  and  want  to  do  something  about  it.  These 
Communists,  know  what  they  are  doing.  They  follow  their  orders.  Par- 
ticularly they  would  like  to  dominate  our  newspapers,  our  colleges  and  our 
schools.  The  campaign  is  much  alike  all  over  the  world.  I  have  seen  the 
same  articles,  almost  the  same  pamphlets,  in  France  and  England  as  in  the 
United  States. 

You  see,  when  it  comes  to  fighting  Communists  I  am  a  battle-scarred 
veteran.  But  after  twenty  years  I  cannot  tell  one  by  looking  at  him. 
However,  only  the  leaders  proclaim  their  membership.  The  clever  are 
silent,  hidden,  anonymous,  boring  from  within.  You  can  only  tell  a 
Communist  by  his  ideas. 

Their  method  of  working  their  way  to  the  seizure  of  power  he 
describes  as  follows : 

Talk  about  peace,  talk  about  social  equality,  especially  among  those 
most  oppressed.  Talk  about  organization  of  labor,  and  penetrate  into  every 
labor  union.  Talk  on  soap  boxes.  Publish  pamphlets  and  papers.  Orate 
and  harangue.  Play  on  envy.  Arouse  jealousy.  Separate  class  from  class. 
Try  to  break  down  the  democratic  processes  from  within.  Accustom 
the  people  to  picketing,  strikes,  mass  meetings.  Constantly  attack  the 
leaders  in  every  way  possible,  so  that  the  people  will  lose  confidence.  Then 
in  time  of  national  peril,  during  a  war,  on  the  occasion  of  a  great 
disaster,  or  on  a  general  strike,  walk  into  the  capital  and  seize  the  power. 
A  well-organized  minority  can  work  wonders. 

WARNING  TO  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

I  have  been  informed  from  several  sources  that  some  of  these 
spurious  political  growths  are  sprouting  here  in  our  own  midst,  that 
members  of  these  groups  have  even  received  instructions  regarding  what 
to  do  in  case  this  country  should  become  involved  in  war.  The  nature 
of  these  instructions  savors  very  much  of  the  diabolical  gun-powder  plot 
in  the  time  of  James  the  First  of  England. 

Latter-day  Saints  should  have  nothing  to  do  with  secret  combinations 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


105 


and  groups  antagonistic  to  the  Constitutional  law  of  the  land,  which  the 
Lord  "suffered  to  be  established,"  and  which  "should  be  maintained  for 
the  rights  and  protection  of  all  flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles  ; 

That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine  and  principle  pertaining  to  futur- 
ity, according  to  the  moral  agency  which  I  have  given  unto  him,  that 
every  man  may  be  accountable  for  his  own  sins  in  the  day  of  judgment. 

Therefore,  it  is  not  right  that  any  man  should  be  in  bondage  one  to 
another. 

And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established  the  Constitution  of  this  land, 
by  the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose,  and 
redeemed  the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  101-77,  80.) 

Of  course  there  are  errors  in  government  which  some  would  correct, 
certainly  there  are  manifest  injustices  and  inequalities,  and  there  will 
always  be  such  in  any  government  in  the  management  of  which  enter 
the  frailties  of  human  nature.  If  you  want  changes  go  to  the  polls 
on  election  day,  express  yourself  as  an  American  citizen,  and  thank  the 
Lord  for  the  privilege  that  is  yours  to  have  a  say  as  to  who  shall  serve 
you  in  public  office. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  UPHOLDING  THE  CONSTITUTION 

Next  to  being  one  in  worshiping  God  there  is  nothing  in  this  world 
upon  which  this  Church  should  be  more  united  than  in  upholding  and 
defending  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

May  the  appeal  of  our  Lord  in  his  Intercessory  Prayer  for  Unity 
be  realized  in  our  homes,  our  wards  and  stakes,  and  in  our  support 
of  the  basic  principles  of  our  Democracy. 

In  the  words  of  John  Oxenham: 

God  grant  us  wisdom  in  these  coming  days, 

And  eyes  unsealed,  that  we  clear  visions  see 
Of  that  new  world  that  He  would  have  us  build, 

To  life's  ennoblement  and  His  high  ministry. 

God  give  us  sense, — God-sense  of  Life's  new  needs, 
And  souls  aflame  with  new-born  chivalries — 

To  cope  with  those  black  growths  that  foul  the  ways, — 
To  cleanse  our  poisoned  founts  with  God-born  energies. 

To  pledge  our  souls  with  nobler,  loftier  life, 

To  win  the  world  to  His  fair  sanctities, 
To  bind  the  nations  in  a  Pact  of  Peace, 

And  free  the  Soul  of  Life  for  finer  loyalties. 

Not  since  Christ  died  upon  His  lonely  cross 
Has  Time  such  prospect  held  of  Life's  new  birth; 
Not  since  the  world  of  chaos  first  was  born 
Has  man  so  clearly  visaged  hope  of  a  new  earth. 

Not  of  our  own  might  can  we  hope  to  rise 

Above  the  ruts  and  soilures  of  the  past, 
But,  with  His  help  who  did  the  first  earth  build, 

With  hearts  courageous  we  may  fairer  build  this  last. 

God  guide  this  Church,  and  particularly  the  Priesthood,  in  building 
according  to  God's  plan,  and  in  establishing  his  kingdom  on  earth,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  sorry  to  tell  you  that  Brother  George  Albert  Smith  is  suffering 
from  quite  a  severe  attack  of  lumbago,  which  is  the  reason  that  he  has 
not  been  at  this  Conference.  He  sends  his  greetings.  I  had  a  little  visit 
with  him  this  morning,  he  is  improving,  but  I  did  not  feel  that  it  would 
be  wise  for  him  to  come  to  the  meeting  this  afternoon. 

We  of  course  regret  the  absence  of  Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith. 
He  is  in  Europe  and  has  done  a  fine  work  there.  We  are  grateful  that 
he  was  in  Europe  when  the  war  broke  out. 

Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the  General  Authorities  is  absent  from 
us  presiding  over  the  New  England  Mission. 

Elder  John  H.  Taylor  was  assigned  to  be  in  New  York  to  assist 
Brother  Frank  Evans  in  taking  care  of  our  missionaries  who  are  return- 
ing from  Europe  and  to  assign  to  their  new  fields  of  labor  those  who 
have  not  completed  their  missions.   We  regret  his  absence. 

Yesterday  I  forgot  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  for  the  beau- 
tiful singing  of  the  chorus  of  the  Branch  Agricultural  College  at  Cedar 
City.  We  thoroughly  appreciated  their  singing  and  are  grateful  to 
them  for  making  such  a  long  trip  to  come  here  and  help  make  this  Con- 
ference of  interest. 

We  are  always  grateful  to  our  Singing  Mothers  for  the  fine  con- 
tribution which  they  give  to  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  "Doxology." 
Elder  A.  Carlos  Schow,  President  of  the  Lehi  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  sixth  and  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at 
2  o'clock  p.  m. 

Once  more  the  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity.  The 
large  Assembly  Hall,  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  was  filled  with 
listeners,  and  hundreds  of  others  who  could  not  find  accommodations  in 
either  of  these  buildings  congregated  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where, 
by  means  of  amplifiers,  they  listened  to  the  Conference  proceedings  as 
they  were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  are  grateful  beyond  expression  for  the  very  fine  work  that  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  is  doing  in  the  broadcasts  each  Sabbath  morning. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


107 


Wherever  I  travel  I  hear  complimentary  comments  regarding  the  Choir 
from  the  people  whom  I  contact.  It  is  remarkable  the  number  of  friends 
that  this  Choir  has  made  for  the  Church  since  we  commenced  the 
broadcasts. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Onward  Ye  Peoples"  (Sibelius). 

Elder  Henry  W.  Henderson,  President  of  the  Pocatello  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

An  anthem,  "Faith  of  our  Fathers"  (Thompson),  was  sung  by  the 
Choir. 

ELDER  GEORGE.  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
If  any  man  speak,  let  him  speak  as  the  oracles  of  God. 

When  a  man  speaks  by  the  power  and  authority  of  the  Priesthood 
of  the  Son  of  God  and  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  what 
he  speaks  will  be  scripture ;  it  will  be  the  mind  of  the  Lord,  the  will  of 
the  Lord,  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

TESTIMONY  OF  THE  TRUTH  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  WORK 

I  desire  to  speak  to  you  this  afternoon,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends,  as  an  oracle  of  God,  and  as  a  witness  for  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
I  bear  my  testimony  to  this  vast  congregation,  to  all  my  hearers,  and 
to  the  world,  so  far  as  my  word  and  testimony  shall  reach,  that  this  work 
in  which  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  are  engaged  is  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  has  in  it  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation. 

I  bear  testimony  that  God  the  Eternal  Father  lives,  a  glorified  and 
exalted  personage,  in  whose  image  and  likeness  we  his  children  are 
born  and  existing. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  the  story  told  by  Joseph  Smith,  whom 
God  raised  up  to  be  a  mighty  prophet  in  the  last  days,  pertaining  to  the 
visitation  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  him  when  he  was  a  boy  but 
fourteen  years  of  age  in  the  beginning  of  this  Gospel  dispensation,  is 
true,  that  God  has  revealed  himself  anew  to  the  world  through  Joseph 
Smith,  so  that  the  world  may  know  him  as  he  is. 

I  testify  that  the  Son  also  is  a  personage  having  a  body  and  parts, 
in  whose  image  man  is  created  and  made,  and  that  he  is  the  Firstborn 
Son  of  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  spirit,  the  Only  Begotten  of  the 
Father  in  the  flesh,  our  Brother,  our  Lord,  our  Savior  and  Redeemer. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet 
of  God,  and  that  through  him  the  Lord  has  restored  the  Gospel  as  it  was 
instituted  in  the  Councils  of  Heaven  before  the  world  was,  with  all  its 
gifts  and  blessings,  power  and  authority  and  saving  ordinances ;  authority 
to  preach  this  Gospel  of  the  kingdom  in  all  the  world  and  to  administer 
its  saving  ordinances  unto  the  children  of  men. 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  £)ag 

I  testify  that  those  who  have  succeeded  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  the 
presidency  of  this  Church  have  been  men  of  God,  his  mouthpiece  unto 
the  Church  and  to  the  world :  Presidents  Brigham  Young,  John  Taylor, 
Wilford  Woodruff,  Lorenzo  Snow,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  our  present 
president,  Heber  J.  Grant.  God  has  been  with  these  men  and  with  his 
people  and  his  work  has  become  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  in  the 
earth.  There  never  has  been  a  time  in  this  Church  when  there  was  not 
a  majority  of  the  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  steadfast  and  true  to  the 
Church,  though  we  have  seen  dark  days  and  apostasy,  even  among  lead- 
ing men  of  the  Church. 

SAFETY  IN  KEEPING  THE  COMMANDMENTS  OF  GOD 

My  advice  and  counsel  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  that  we  keep  near 
to  the  Authorities  of  this  Church,  and  if  we  will  follow  their  example 
and  observe  their  teachings  we  will  be  on  safe  ground  and  cannot  be 
undermined  by  the  wiles  and  machinations  of  him  who  is  the  enemy  of 
God  and  of  man  and  who  would  destroy  our  faith  and  lead  us  from  paths 
of  virtue,  truth,  and  honor,  to  degradation  and  to  condemnation. 

When  we  fail  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God  we  let  down  the 
bars  and  show  our  weakness  unto  the  evil  one,  who  is  always  on  the 
alert  to  take  advantage. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  only  safe  course  for  us  to  take  who  are 
candidates  for  the  blessings  of  salvation  and  eternal  life  is  to  live  by 
every  word  that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God. 

When  we  attend  to  our  religious  duties,  according  to  the  light  and 
knowledge  which  we  have,  we  will  receive  from  the  Lord  a  manifestation 
of  his  good  pleasure  and  approval,  and  without  this  approval  we  will 
not  be  able  to  take  hold  upon  the  blessings  of  eternal  life  and  exaltation. 

We  have  started  in  the  straight  way  that  leads  to  life  everlasting, 
and  are  able  to  point  the  way  to  those  who  are  in  spiritual  darkness, 
and  this  is  a  responsibility  resting  upon  us  concerning  our  fellowmen. 

PURPOSE  OF  LIFE  ON  EARTH 

We  are  not  here  on  the  earth  for  selfish  purposes,  nor  for  our  own 
personal  aggrandizement,  we  are  not  here  to  acquire  the  wealth  of  this 
world.  We  are  here  for  the  purpose  of  working  out  our  salvation 
according  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  to  make  every  preparation 
necessary  for  the  life  to  come,  and  to  assist  the  Lord  in  his  work  and 
purposes  to  save  the  souls  of  his  children,  whose  souls  are  precious  in  his 
sight. 

We  are  to  follow  the  admonition  of  the  Savior,  and  his  example: 
"Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness" — and"Lay 
not  up  for  yourselves  treasures  on  earth,  where  moth  and  rust  corrupt, 
and  thieves  break  through  and  steal ;  but  lay  up  for  yourselves  treasures 
in  heaven." 

The  Lord  expects  us  when  he  blesses  us  with  the  good  things  of 
this  earth  to  remember  those  who  are  not  so  fortunate.   We  are  to  feed 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


109 


the  hungry,  clothe  the  naked,  visit  the  sick,  comfort  those  who  mourn,  and 
minister  unto  those  who  are  poor  and  needy,  and  thus  become  of  that 
class  to  whom  the  Lord,  when  he  shall  come,  shall  say:  "Come,  ye 
blessed  of  the  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  prepared  for  you  from  the 
foundation  of  the  world." 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  GOD  UNFOLDS  MEANING  OF  THE  SCRIPTURES 

The  people  of  the  earth  are  in  need  of  teachers  such  as  Philip  who 
was  sent  by  the  Lord  to  the  Ethiopian  as  he  was  on  the  way  from  Jeru- 
salem. Our  missionaries  are  of  that  type. 

The  things  contained  in  the  Bible  are  the  things  of  God  and  are 
understood  only  by  the  Spirit  of  God.  No  prophecy  of  the  scriptures 
is  of  any  private  interpretation.  "For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old 
time  of  the  will  of  man :  but  holy  men  of  God  spoke  as  they  were  moved 
upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost."  That  is  how  the  scriptures,  ancient  and 
modern,  have  come  to  us.  "What  man  knoweth  the  things  of  a  man,  save 
the  spirit  of  man  which  is  in  him  ?  Even  so  the  things  of  God  knoweth 
no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of  God." — -"The  natural  man  receiveth  not  the 
things  of  the  Spirit  of  God :  for  they  are  foolishness  unto  him :  neither 
can  he  know  them,  because  they  are  spiritually  discerned." 

If  people  possess  the  Spirit  of  God  in  the  same  measure  as  did  the 
prophets  who  wrote  and  spoke  the  things  contained  in  the  scriptures 
they  would  understand  the  scriptures  the  same  as  they  were  understood 
by  the  prophets  who  wrote  and  spoke  the  scriptures. 

The  Ethiopian  had  not  taken  the  course  to  obtain  the  Holy  Ghost, 
by  which  the  things  contained  in  the  scriptures  were  given,  by  which 
they  could  be  understood,  and  he  needed  a  teacher  who  had  obtained 
the  Holy  Ghost  as  had  Philip. 

It  is  to  bear  testimony  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  truth 
of  all  things  pertaining  to  the  Gospel,  and  to  administer  its  ordinances 
that  we  send  missionaries  into  the  world.  People  are  not  able  to  find 
their  way  into  the  kingdom  of  God  by  merely  having  these  holy  scrip- 
tures. By  preaching  the  Gospel  to  the  people  of  the  world  we  hope  to 
wash  our  hands  clean  of  the  blood  and  sins  of  this  generation  and  make 
our  calling  and  election  sure,  so  that  when  we  go  beyond  there  will  be 
no  disappointment. 

THE  WORK  FOR  THE  DEAD  IMPORTANT 

We  have  our  dead  also  to  seek  after,  those  of  our  immediate 
ancestors,  our  blood  kindred,  many  of  whom  were  noble  men  and 
women  who  lived  their  lives  here  in  mortality,  according  to  the  best  light 
and  knowledge  they  had,  but  were  deprived  of  the  privileges  which  we 
enjoy  of  the  Gospel  and  its  saving  ordinances.  We  have  the  responsi- 
bility of  finding  these  out  by  genealogical  research,  obtaining  information 
which  is  necessary  to  identify  them  upon  the  records  of  the  Church  and 
of  the  Temple,  and  then  after  receiving  these  saving  ordinances  our- 
selves, to  act  vicariously  for  the  dead  in  receiving  those  ordinances. 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Day 

I  am  afraid,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  when  some  of  us  go 
Beyond  and  meet  our  kindred  dead  we  will  not  receive  the  generous 
and  joyous  welcome  which  we  anticipate,  and  this  because  of  our  neglect. 

The  Lord  has  said  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  that  there  is  no 
greater  responsibility  that  he  has  laid  upon  us  than  that  of  looking  after 
our  kindred  dead. 

This  missionary  work  for  the  living  and  the  dead  is  the  highest 
service  in  which  man  can  be  employed,  and,  I  think  I  might  say,  that  can 
employ  the  attention  of  the  Gods,  for  all  that  we  know  of  their  works 
that  have  been  revealed  unto  us  are  looking  to  this  worthy  end — the 
saving  of  the  souls  of  men. 

REDEMPTION  THROUGH  JESUS  CHRIST 

We  are  admonished  of  the  Lord  to  search  the  scriptures,  "For  in 
them  ye  think  ye  have  eternal  life,  and  they  are  they  which  testify  of 
me."  He  referred  to  the  Bible.  We  did  not  have  then  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
which  also  contain  the  word  of  God  and  the  will  of  God  and  are  scriptures 
from  which  we  quote  copiously  in  connection  with  the  Bible  quotations. 
The  ancient  and  modern  scriptures  alike  testify  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  By  them  we  know  that  he  was,  under  the  Father,  the  Creator 
of  the  heavens  and  the  earth  and  all  things  therein.  All  things  were 
made  by  him,  and  without  him  was  not  anything  made  that  was  made. 
He  ministered  as  the  Lord  of  heaven  and  earth  from  the  time  of  the 
creation  down  to  the  meridian  of  time,  when  he  was  born  in  Bethlehem 
of  Judea.  The  very  day  before  his  birth,  we  are  told  by  a  Nephite 
prophet,  he  said :  "Tomorrow  come  I  into  the  world."  He  was  chosen 
in  the  councils  of  the  heavens  to  be  the  Savior  and  Redeemer  of  mankind, 
to  redeem  them  from  the  effects  of  the  Fall,  which  had  not  yet  taken  place, 
for  the  earth  had  not  yet  been  made  and  peopled  by  sons  and  daughters 
of  God.  But  the  Lord  who  knows  the  end  from  the  beginning  had 
made  provision  for  every  condition  that  should  arise  from  the  beginning 
unto  the  end.  And  so  through  his  life  of  suffering  and  his  death  upon 
the  cross  he  redeemed  us  from  the  Fall,  from  death  to  resurrection,  in 
which  the  body  and  the  spirit  are  inseparably  connected,  which  condition 
is  necessary  to  enter  the  kingdom  of  God,  for  which  we  all  are  can- 
didates, and  also  that  we  might  be  redeemed  from  the  effects  of  our 
own  transgressions  through  obedience  unto  the  laws  and  ordinances  of 
the  Gospel. 

We  thank  the  Lord  frequently,  and  I  wonder  if  it  is  fervently,  for 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  What  is  there  in  the  Gospel  that  we  are  so 
thankful  for  ?  I  want  to  tell  you  that  one  of  the  things  I  am  grateful  for 
is  that  through  the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ  my  sins  will  be  forgiven 
if  I  yield  obedience  unto  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  and 
maintain  my  integrity  to  the  end.  Yea,  the  promise  is :  "Though  your 
sins  be  as  scarlet  they  shall  be  washed  white  in  the  blood  of  the  Lamb." 
Is  not  that  a  great  privilege  and  blessing?    There  is  no  other  way  of 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


111 


obtaining  forgiveness  of  sin,  and  in  our  sins  we  can  never  enter  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  receive  salvation  and  exaltation. 

LOVE  SHOWN  BY  SERVICE 

We  value  the  lives  of  our  children  and  the  hope  and  the  assurance 
that  we  have  that  we  will  have  them  for  eternity.  Such  assurance  is 
given  us  through  the  Gospel  and  the  ordinances  which  we  have  received. 
We  value  the  holy  endowment  administered  in  the  temple  of  God  to 
prepare  us  to  enter  the  celestial  kingdom.  If  we  appreciate  the  Gospel 
as  a  gift  of  God,  ought  we  not  to  do  something  that  will  in  a  measure 
pay  the  debt  of  gratitude  we  owe  and  prove  our  appreciation  and  our 
love?  How  is  he  to  know  how  much  we  love  him?  There  is  a  little 
poem,  and  I  suppose  all  the  school  children  have  learned  to  recite  it,  that 
teaches  the  lesson  beautifully.   It  runs  like  this : 

"I  love  you,  mother,"  said  little  John, 

Then  forgetting  his  work  his  cap  went  on, 
And  off  he  ran  to  the  garden  swing 

And  left  her  the  wood  and  the  water  to  bring. 

"I  love  you,  mother,"  said  little  Nell, 

"I  love  you  more  than  tongue  can  tell." 
Then  she  teased  and  pouted  full  half  the  day, 

Till  her  mother  rejoiced  when  she  went  to  play. 

"I  love  you,  mother,"  said  little  Nan. 

"Today  I'll  help  you  all  I  can. 
How  glad  I  am  that  school  doesn't  keep." 

Then  she  rocked  the  baby  till  he  fell  asleep. 

Then  stepping  lightly  she  fetched  the  broom 

And  swept  the  floor  and  tidied  the  room. 
Busy  and  happy  all  day  was  she, 

Busy  and  happy  as  child  could  be. 

"I  love  you,  mother,"  again  they  said, 

Three  little  children  going  to  bed. 
But  how  do  you  think  that  mother  guessed 

Which  of  them  really  loved  her  best? 

She  knew  of  course  by  their  actions.  God  has  said :  "If  ye  love  me, 
keep  my  commandments."  "If  a  man  love  me  he  will  keep  my  words." 
For  the  love  we  have  for  God  and  our  Savior  and  for  our  own  sake, 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  for  the  good  example  it  will  be  to  the  children 
of  men  with  whom  we  associate,  in  the  Church  and  without,  may  we 
be  true  and  faithful  and  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  obey 
every  law,  seek  to  know  his  will,  and  do  it  under  all  circumstances  and 
conditions,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  S  Third  Day 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

LOVE  OF  TRUTH  SHOWN  BY  OBEDIENCE 

The  main  theme  of  this  great  Conference  has  been  the  love  of  God 
and  our  fellowmen  on  the  one  hand  and  the  love  of  our  country  on  the 
other  hand.  I  love  the  Lord  and  I  love  his  Gospel,  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  only  way  to  manifest  our  love  for  him  is 
through  keeping  his  commandments.  As  you  have  already  heard,  our 
loyalty  is  demonstrated  by  our  faithfulness  in  keeping  the  word  of  the 
Lord.  "If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  commandments."  Our  love  for  our 
country  is  manifest  in  our  obedience  to  her  laws.  We  in  this  country 
should  be  loyal  to  this  Government  which  is  inspired  by  God  and  was 
instituted  among  his  children  for  the  blessing  of  mankind. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  CHURCH  AND  COUNTRY 

I  am  proud  of  my  standing  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints ;  proud  that  I  am  a  member  of  this  Church.  I  prize 
that  membership  above  all  else.  How  grateful  I  am  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  that  I  have  been  born  in  the  day  and  age  when  this  glorious 
Gospel  has  been  restored  to  the  earth ;  that  I  have  been  born  of  goodly 
parents;  and  taught  from  my  childhood  up  in  the  glorious  principles 
of  life  and  salvation. 

I  am  proud  of  my  country  and  of  its  institutions.  I  am  proud  to 
be  an  American  citizen.  The  remarks  that  have  been  made  during  this 
conference  from  the  very  beginning  have  set  my  soul  aflame  with 
patriotic  fire  for  my  God  and  my  country,  and  I  hope  that  I  may  be  loyal 
to  both  all  the  days  of  my  life,  and  manifest  that  loyalty  and  that  love 
through  obedience  to  the  mind  and  will  of  God  and  to  the  laws  of  our 
beloved  land. 

We  as  a  people  have  a  special  interest  in  our  loyalty  to  our  country. 
It  seems  to  me  that  we  have  an  interest  in  this  country  that  transcends 
that  of  any  other  people.  What  a  wonderful  country  this  is !  This 
earth  was  created  by,  the  Almighty,  who  holds  the  title  to  every  acre  of 
the  land  upon  the  surface  of  this  earth.  He  made  it ;  it  is  his,  and  the 
fulness  thereof  belongs  to  him,  and  certainly  his  right  to  parcel  that 
country  out  to  whomsoever  he  will  may  not  or  should  not  be  contested. 

THE  LORD'S  COVENANTS  WITH  HIS  CHOSEN  PEOPLE 

Under  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant  the  Lord  has  made  land 
grants  to  his  chosen  people. 

Many  thoughtless  speakers  and  thoughtless  writers  have  sometimes 
imagined  that  the  covenant  was  merely  a  grant,  a  land  grant,  and  over- 
looked the  stupendous  fact  that  all  such  land  grants  have  been  given 
to  his  chosen  people  that  they  might  have  place  whereon  to  establish  . 
his  statutes  and  build  up  his  Church  and  Kingdom.    Unto  Adam  he 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


113 


gave  the  whole  earth  and  gave  dominion  to  Adam  over  every  living  thing 
that  creepeth  upon  it;  to  Abraham  he  gave  the  promised  land,  even 
the  land  of  Palestine;  to  Moses  he  renewed  the  covenant  made  with 
Abraham,  including  the  land  grant  accompanying  it;  and  to  Joseph  he 
gave  the  land  of  America,  long  before  its  discovery  by  Columbus. 

AMERICA  THE  LAND  OF  JOSEPH 

This  is  the  land  of  America  on  which  we  dwell.  Joseph,  the 
favored  son  of  Israel,  to  him  and  to  his  posterity  was  given  this  great 
and  glorious  land.  To  him  and  all  the  house  of  Israel  his  companions. 
Therefore,  I  say,  we  have  a  special  interest  for  we  are  the  descendants 
of  Joseph.  Our  patriarchs  have  declared  our  lineage  as  that  of  Joseph, 
the  favored  son  of  Israel.  When  his  patriarchal  father  laid  hands 
upon  his  head  and  pronounced  the  blessings  "of  heaven  above  and  of 
the  deep  that  lieth  under,"  he  promised  unto  him  the  land  of  America. 
This  grant,  this  pledge,  and  this  promise,  were  given  long  before  Colum- 
bus discovered  America  and  hence  it  was  not  known  by  that  name  or  that 
title,  but  that  land  is  so  graphically  described  in  the  scriptures  that  it 
is  sure  to  be  none  other  land  than  the  blessed  land  on  which  we  dwell. 
One  of  our  songs  in  pioneer  days  reads : 

We  are  the  true  born  sons  of  Ephraim, 

Who  with  us  that  can  compare? 
We  are  of  the  royal  house  of  Joseph, 

That  bright  and  glorious  morning  star. 

That  is  our  lineage ;  our  patriarchs  have  so  told  us.  We  have 
an  abiding  faith  that  this  land  belongs  to  us  and  at  the  same  time 
that  the  holy  land  of  Palestine  belongs  to  the  House  of  Israel,  the 
seed  of  Abraham,  given  to  them  for  an  everlasting  inheritance,  to  Judah 
and  the  House  of  Israel  his  companions.  If  any  descendant  of  Joseph 
should  desire  to  obtain  a  part  or  parcel  of  this  blessed  land,  it  would 
be  wise  that  he  secure  it  by  purchase  from  someone  that  could  show  an 
abstract  of  title  back  to  a  United  States  patent.  So  we  advise  people 
that  they  should  pursue  that  course  if  they  want  to  obtain  any  part 
of  it  by  legal  possession  at  the  present  time.  The  same  thing,  no  doubt, 
is  being  done  by  the  descendants  of  Judah  in  the  blessed  land  of  Palestine. 
They,  too,  have  a  right,  and  yet  I  suppose  they  are  securing  it  by  purchase ; 
however,  their  rights  are  being  vigorously  opposed,  notwithstanding  the 
Lord  gave  it  unto  Abraham  through  the  son  of  promise,  Isaac,  not 
to  Jshmael  the  progenitor  of  the  Arabs,  but  the  time  will  come  when 
these  land  grants  will  be  duly  honored,  for  the  wicked  shall  be  destroyed 
and  the  saints,  only  those  who  have  entered  into  the  covenant,  shall 
inherit  these  lands.  "All  the  proud,  yea,  and  all  that  do  wickedly 
shall  be  stubble :  and  the  day  that  cometh  shall  burn  them  up,  saith  the 
Lord  of  Hosts,  that  is  shall  leave  them  neither  root  nor  branch." 

The  thoughts  that  are  in  my  mind  in  connection  with  this  everlasting 
covenant  and  accompanying  land  grants,  I  wrote  once  in  the  form  of  a 
poem,   Let  me  not  call  it  a  poem  or  dignify  it  by  so  high  a  title,  but  on 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 

January  1,  1938,  the  inspiration  came  to  me  to  write  some  verses  to 
give  expression  to  the  thoughts  which  I  have  been  here  expressing.  I 
will  repeat  them  to  you : 

BOOKS  DIVINE 

Holy  Bible,  book  divine, 

Precious  treasure,  thou  art  mine. 
Mine  to  tell  me  whence  I  came; 

Mine  to  teach  me  who  I  am. 

Book  of  Mormon,  book  divine, 

Precious  treasure,  thou  art  mine; 
Mine  to  guide  me  in  my  youth ; 

Mine  to  lead  me  in  all  truth. 

Stick  of  Judah,  Israel's  guide, 

Stick  of  Joseph  by  its  side; 
These  are  one  in  Ephraim's  hand, 

Brought  to  light  in  Joseph's  land. 

Judah  ever  wears  the  crown, 

Wields  the  scepter,  wears  the  gown, 
Inheriting  the  Holy  land 

According  to  Divine  command. 

Joseph  is  a  fruitful  bough, 

Favored  son  of  Israel  thou; 
His  branches  running  o'er  the  wall 

Gathering  all  who  heed  his  call, 

In  the  choicest  land  above  all  lands 
Whereso'er  the  ocean  strands 
Where  amid  its  rocks  and  rills 
High  above  Judea's  hills, 

In  the  Rocky  Mountain  height 

Stands  the  Temple,  "God  its  light." 
Many  people  go  and  say 

He  will  teach  us  of  His  way. 

And  among  its  ancient  mounds 

To  the  very  utmost  bounds 
Of  the  everlasting  hills, 

How  my  soul  with  rapture  thrills ! 

America  is  Joseph's  land; 

Here  shall  Zion  ever  stand. 
And  Judah's  land  again  shall  shine, 

Blessed  land  of  Palestine. 

From  Zion  shall  go  forth  the  law, 

Even  as  the  prophet  saw ; 
And  from  Jerusalem  the  word 

In  every  land  it  shall  be  heard. 

Of  these  sayings  not  one  is  mine ; 

All  I've  done — I've  made  them  rhyme. 
In  these  books  inspired  men 

Have  "graven  them  with  iron  pen," 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS  115 


"And  lead  them  in  the  rock  forever," 

That  from  the  Truth  we  may  not  sever. 
Oh,  ye  holy  books  divine, 

Precious  treasures  ye  are  mine. 

These  are  my  thoughts  in  connection  with  this  blessed  land  of 
America  and  our  right  to  it,  and  yet  we  are  willing  to  harbor  here  those 
who  come  from  afar,  from  all  the  nations — a  place  of  refuge  for  those 
who  are  oppressed  under  the  tyrannical  governments  of  the  old  world. 
How  grateful  we  ought  to  be  for  this  land  of  liberty  in  which  we  dwell, 
and  how  loyal  we  ought  to  be  to  it,  appreciating  all  its  blessings  and 
privileges. 

THE  BLESSINGS  OF  LIBERTY 

On  July  4th,  1917,  a  few  months  after  the  entry  of  the  United  States 
into  the  great  World  War,  I  composed  the  following  verses  expressing 
my  feelings  in  regard  to  the  inalienable  rights  of  man  as  set  forth  in  the 
Declaration  of  Independence  which  crystalized  in  the  framing  of  our 
glorious  Constitution: 

I  do  not  want  you  to  think  that  I  imagine  that  I  am  a  poet ;  I  have 
just  been  able  to  write  a  few  unique  verses  that  emphasize  the  feelings 
that  are  overflowing  in  my  heart,  and  I  think  I  have  just  time  to  repeat 
that  poem : 

LIFE  AND  LIBERTY 

To  live  and  have  a  being, 

To  dwell  upon  the  earth, 
Is  a  boon  and  blessed  right 

Inherited  at  birth. 
The  Lord  who  gave,  he  taketh 

And  blessed  be  his  name ; 
For  he  that  taketh,  maketh 

And  giveth  back  again ; 

But  woe  to  man,  or  nation, 

That  taketh  life  for  fame ; 
For  conquest  or  ambition 

No  matter  in  what  name ; 
For  life,  it  is  my  dower, 

Oh,  how  my  heart  doth  swell, 
For  God  gave  me  the  power 

Upon  his  earth  to  dwell. 

But  what  is  life  if  fettered? 

Mere  lungs  without  a  breath. 
"Give  me  liberty"  was  uttered, 

"Or"  otherwise  "give  death." 
To  stand  upon  the  mountain, 

And  breathe  the  heavenly  air — 
To  quaff  at  freedom's  fountain, 

No  "let  or  hindrance"  there. 

To  linger  in  the  valley; 

To  travel  o'er  the  plain ; 
Out  on  the  sea  to  sally, 

Across  the  bounding  main. 
The  world  is  mine  to  live  in ; 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Dan 

The  ocean  lanes  are  free ; 
For  these  our  God  hath  given 
To  all — to  you  and  me. 

To  live  and  to  be  free; 

To  worship  God  alone, 
As  conscience  oriHet^ 

As  my  own  heart  is  prone. 
These  are  rights  God-given ; 

He  gave  them  all  to  me. 
They  emanate  from  heaven, 

E'en  Life  and  Liberty. 

It  is  for  these  we're  struggling, 

The  Teutons  say  for  naught. 
To  us  these  rights  are  precious, 

For  them  our  fathers  fought. 
So  we  the  same  defending 

'Neath  the  red  and  white  and  blue, 
And  to  all  the  world  extending, 

Will  our  happiness  pursue. 

May  the  Lord  grant  now  that  we  may  be  loyal  to  our  native  land. 

Lives  there  a  man  with  soul  so  dead, 

Who  never  to  himself  hath  said, 
This  is  my  own,  my  native  land. 

Let  there  be  no  member  of  this  Church  who  does  not  feel  in  his 
heart,  "I'm  going  to  be  loyal  and  true  to  my  Church  for  it  is  the  Church 
and  Kingdom  of  God."  I  endorse  with  all  my  heart  the  remarks  that 
I  have  heard. 

The  testimony  that  has  just  been  borne  by  Elder  George  F.  Richards 
regarding  the  leaders  of  this  people  from  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
to  our  present  leader  and  prophet — Heber  J.  Grant — is  likewise  my 
testimony,  and  I  bear  witness  of  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


The  Choir  sang  "And  Then  Shall  Your  Light  Break  Forth" 
(Mendelssohn). 

ELDER  JOSEPH   F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

To  me  the  spot  on  which  I  stand  in  this  historic  building  is  hallowed, 
long  since  made  so  by  the  presence  here  of  many  great  prophets  and 
leaders  who  have  gone  to  their  reward.  Among  them  were  five  presi- 
dents of  the  Church.  So  I  never  stand  here  to  speak  without  feeling 
very  humble  and  therefore  dependent  upon  the  Lord  for  whose  inspiring 
Spirit  I  always  most  earnestly  pray  to  help  and  guide  me. 

THANKFUL  FOR  LEADERS 

I  have  been  thrilled  by  things  said  at  every  session  of  this  Con- 
ference. When  I  heard  President  Grant  Friday  morning  read  the  master- 
ly document  by  the  First  Presidency  affecting  the  war  situation  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


11? 


President  Clark  give  an  able  amplification  of  it,  I  thanked  the  Lord 
for  our  First  Presidency. 

An  outstanding  theme  of  this  Conference  is  the  keeping  of  the 
two  great  commandments.  I  desire  to  make  some  remarks  touching 
a  few  high  points  of  a  topic  that  has  some  relation  to  this  theme. 
In  these  remarks  I  shall  try  to  be  plain  and  direct  so  as  not  to  be  misunder- 
stood but  entirely  free  from  unfair  or  hurtful  statements.  I  propose 
talking  a  few  minutes  about  some  purported  causes  of  unemployment 
and  to  point  out  some  conditions  that  must  prevail  if  lasting  remedies  for 
unemployment  are  found. 

LATTER-DAY  SAINT  BELIEF  PRACTICAL 

With  true  Latter-day  Saints  their  religion  is  a  very  real  thing. 
It  is  a  part  of  their  lives,  entering  as  a  guiding  factor  into  every  day  life 
and  setting  up  standards  by  which  to  measure  the  rightfulness  of  conduct. 
Hence  they  profess  a  religion  that  is  very  practical,  one  in  which  faith 
and  works  are  inseparable. 

They  accept  the  declaration  of  the  Apostle  James  "that  faith  with- 
out works  is  dead."  (Jas.  2:19.)  It  is  therefore  not  uncommon  for 
them  to  listen  to  speakers  at  religious  services  discuss  affairs  of  every 
day  life  and  indicate  how  religion  has  a  bearing  on  them.  Hence  in  the 
remarks  I  am  about  to  make  I  trust  I  shall  not  depart  too  far  from 
an  occasional  practice. 

WANT  THE  CAUSE  OF  UNREST  IN  THE  WORLD 

Confusion,  unrest,  uncertainty,  fear  and  warfare  continue  to  char- 
acterize our  times,  both  nationally  and  internationally.  Within  our  own 
country  the  primary  superficial  cause  may  be  ascribed  to  want  in  its 
many  aspects — want  of  employment,  want  of  money,  want  of  security, 
want  of  power — to  mention  only  a  few  of  the  many  types  of  want. 

Labor  wants  employment  and,  in  recent  times,  very  often  on  its 
own  terms.  And  if  these  are  not  forthcoming,  strikes,  struggles  and 
fighting  with  all  their  attendant  evils  frequently  take  place.  The  want 
of  money  for  one  or  more  of  the  many  things  that  money  will  buy  is 
almost  universal.  And  this  want  is  often  so  intense  that  it  employs 
any  means  deemed  necessary  to  reach  its  objective,  however  criminal 
and  wicked  they  may  be.  The  want  of  power  seems  to  be  a  desire  growing 
apace  with  more  and  more  people,  and  the  want  of  security  is  a  feeling 
common  to  everyone. 

Unemployment  is  an  evil  so  old  that  its  date  is  unknown.  But  in 
our  fair  land  it  has  become  a  serious  problem  only  in  recent  years.  So  new 
with  us  is  the  problem  that  we  seem  not  to  know  how  to  solve  it ;  at  any 
rate,  we  cannot  agree  on  methods  of  solution.  The  result  is  a  lot  of 
loose  thinking  and  a  fertile  field  for  the  propagation  of  demagoguery. 

It  is  frequently  said  that  what  we  need  to  make  us  prosperous  is 
more  purchasing  power  in  the  hands  of  the  people.  But  a  statement  of 
this  obvious  truth  may  not  indicate  how  this  power  is  to  be  secured. 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Day 

And  here  is  where  demagoguery  enters  with  its  fantastic  solutions,  some 
of  which  are  well  known  and  are  urged  to  the  entire  satisfaction  of  many 
loose  thinkers. 

FORCES  WHICH  CAUSE  UNEMPLOYMENT 

But  all  will  agree  that  need  of  employment  is  basic.  The  vast  size 
of  our  unemployed  rolls  is  sometimes  ascribed  to  our  super  machine 
age  which  has  resulted  in  releasing  workers  faster  than  it  has  absorbed 
them. 

Discussing  this  topic,  an  internationally  known  engineer  and  states- 
man in  an  address  given  a  few  weeks  ago  said  the  engineer  through  his 
development  of  huge  tools  has  brought  a  social  revolution  into  the  world 
out  of  which  have  sprung  a  lot  of  problems.  Nevertheless  the  use  of 
these  tools  has  vastly  increased  the  freedom  of  man  who  is  now  able 
to  produce  fifty  or  even  a  thousand  times  more  than  before.  The  tools 
of  industry  are  saving  "rivers  of  sweat  from  the  backs  of  men  and 
infinite  drudgery  from  the  hands  of  women.  *  *  *  This  engineers' 
revolution  is  the  greatest  emancipation  of  mankind  from  toil  and  worry 
in  the  history  of  the  world,"  says  this  authority. 

But,  he  admits,  this  revolution  has  not  been  all  satisfactions,  for 
some  free  minds  also  invent  new  and  ingenious  forms  of  wickedness 
and  they  sometimes  use  the  new  tools  to  oppress  and  exploit  their  fellow 
men. 

Lately,  he  says,  a  clash  of  various  forces  has  washed  the  nation 
up  with  11,000,000  unemployed.  Here  enter  the  sociologists,  the  econo- 
mists, and  the  politicians  with  their  remedies.  And  some  of  them  are 
not  tied  to  facts,  so  they  can  be  highly  imaginative.  "Being  imaginative, 
they  can  be  oratorical.  Being  oratorical,  they  can  be  impressionistic. 
And  being  impressionistic,  the  little  questions  of  quantities  and  measure- 
ments do  not  dampen  their  spirits." 

So,  our  authority  says,  these  loose  thinkers  accuse  the  engineers 
with  loss  of  jobs  due  to  new  labor-saving  devices.  Yet  we  know  that 
new  inventions  bring  new  articles,  new  industries  and  new  services 
which  make  new  demands  for  labor.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  he  says,  less 
than  one-third  of  new  inventions  effect  labor-saving ;  while  two-thirds 
of  them  produce  new  articles  and  thus  new  jobs. 

REMEDIES  SUGGESTED 

Now,  while  some  people  fear  there  are  no  new  frontiers  in  sight — 
no  important  new  discoveries  and  inventions  to  make  that  will  open 
up  new  industries  affording  new  employment — our  authority  believes 
the  record  does  not  justify  these  fears.  He  believes,  however,  that 
something  has  gone  wrong  in  the  functioning  of  industrial  life.  He 
points  out  that  we  have  gone  through  nine  years  with  seldom  less  than 
eleven  million  people  out  of  employment.  And  to  quote,  "unless  there  be  a 
better  solution  than  the  confused  thinking  now  current,  there  are  no 
productive  jobs  in  sight  for  them."    Hence,  to  continue  quoting,  "to 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


119 


get  our  people  back  to  work  is  the  vital  humanitarian  problem  of  our 
day."  And  "pending  its  solution,"  he  says,  "the  Government  must  pro- 
vide against  destitution.  But  support  by  the  Government  can  offer  no 
security  or  hope  of  the  future." 

He  suggests  that  before  a  remedy  can  be  found  we  go  outside 
the  field  of  mechanistic  economics  and  demagogic  politics  and  seek  the 
help  of  the  engineer,  expecting  him  to  find  and  study  the  facts  and 
out  of  them  evolve  practical  remedies.  He  believes  that  if  this  were 
done  the  engineer  would  find  "the  real  cause  and  the  solution  for  these 
11,000,000  fellow  Americans  now  in  distress." 

I  have  thus  given  a  very  brief  but  perhaps  inadequate  abstract 
of  some  of  the  things  Mr.  Herbert  Hoover  said  in  an  address  printed  in 
the  August,  1939,  number  of  Mining  and  Metallurgy,  a  technical  journal. 
I  refer  to  this  address  because  it  is  a  timely  discussion  of  some  phases 
of  our  greatest  economic  problem — unemployment.  But  I  am  sure 
there  are  some  factors  related  to  the  problem  that  Mr.  Hoover  does  not 
mention  in  his  able  address,  possibly  for  lack  of  time. 

Mr.  Hoover  correctly  points  out  that  invention  has  opened  up  vast 
new  industries  and  given  jobs  to  millions  of  workers.  But  he  admits 
there  has  been  a  lag  of  employment,  and  everyone  knows  it  has  been 
growing  larger  and  more  ominous.  His  proposed  solution  would  un- 
doubtedly be  helpful  but  likely  far  from  complete,  unless,  indeed,  there 
were  a  revolution  in  men's  attitude  toward  one  another. 

Going  back  to  June,  1928,  we  find  the  Reader's  Digest  presents  a 
condensed  article  by  Professor  Irving  Fisher  under  the  title,  "Full  Em- 
ployment— Prosperity's  Problem."  Among  the  statements  he  makes 
are  the  following : 

Secretary  of  Labor  James  J.  Davis  notes  that  during  the  recent 
marvelous  progress  in  installing  automatic  machinery  in  industry,  new 
industries  have  failed  to  develop  fast  enough  to  absorb  the  men  dispensed 
with.  The  result  is  the  anomaly  of  growing  unemployment  during  an 
extended  period  of  increased  business  activity.  *  *  *  Estimates  of  unem- 
ployment find  that  since  1923,  the  manufacturing  industries  have  dispensed 
with  a  million  workers,  and  the  farms  with  another  million,  while  during  a 
period  of  record  haulage  railways  have  laid  off  100,000  more.  Another 
100,000  have  been  laid  off  in  the  coal  regions.  To  this  total  of  2,200,000 
must  be  added  the  1,000,000  already  unemployed  in  1923,  and  the  increase 
of  3,000,000  more  of  employable  age  since  1923,  due  to  growth  in  popula- 
tion. *  *  *  The  Labor  Bureau  conjectures  that  4,000,000  workers  remained 
unemployed  at  the  close  of  1927.  *  *  * 

There  is  plenty  of  evidence  that  the  increased  output  per  worker 
accounts  for  a  considerable  displacement  of  men  in  industry.  Federal 
Reserve  Board  figures  indicate  that  between  1919  and  1929  t„he  output  per 
worker  increased  by  34%  in  factory  production.  The  United  States  Labor 
Bureau  puts  the  increase  at  51%.  Though  industries  have  substantially  . 
increased  their  production,  the  rapid  mechanization  of  industry  and  better 
management  methods  have  temporarily  displaced  men  faster  than  new 
jobs  could  be  created  for  them. 

Professor  Fisher  next  outlines  ways  of  absorbing  labor,  some  of 
which  have  been  in  operation  during  the  past  ten  years.  But  with  what 
results?    A  reliable  publication  in  the  engineering  field  recently  said 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 

the  "United  States  has  five  million  more  workers  than  10  years  ago 
(1929)  but  three  million  less  on  pay  rolls,"  making  8  million  more 
unemployed  now  than  then.  Thus  our  authorities  point  out  that  unem- 
ployment has  been  increasing  during  the  past  20  years,  notwithstanding 
new  inventions  and  the  resultant  growth  in  new  industries.  Are  we  not 
cherishing  a  will-o'-the-wisp  in  our  comforting  hope  that  somehow 
new  industries  will  solve  the  problem  of  unemployment? 

We  now  pass  to  another  reference  illuminating  another  phase  to 
which  unemployment  is  said  to  be  due. 

In  a  recent  article  under  the  heading,  "The  Forgotten  Public," 
William  Starr  Myers  says  in  the  July  6,  1939,  number  of  Public 
Utilities  that  "recent  legislation,  designed  to  place  in  the  hands  of  labor 
leaders  every  advantage  possible  and  which  at  the  same  time  deprives 
employers  of  reciprocal  rights  of  any  kind,  makes  it  impossible  for  the 
employer  to  bargain  on  even  terms  with  the  representatives-  of  his 
employees.  *  *  *  In  other  words  the  employer  is  not  now  in  a  position 
to  acquaint  his  employees  with  the  real  facts  in  any  given  situation." 
For  under  the  law  an  employer  cannot  deal  directly  or  indirectly  with 
his  employees,  if  they  have  chosen  a  union  as  their  representative.  The 
law  as  it  now  stands  is  charged  with  hampering  employment. 

The  facts  are,  it  is  said,  unemployment  in  this  country  was  never 
so  great,  amiable  relations  between  capital  and  labor  were  never  so  poor, 
taxes  were  never  so  high,  amounts  paid  for  relief  under  one  title  or 
another  were  never  so  vast,  the  debts  of  the  government  never  so  enor- 
mous, struggles  for  place  and  power  never  so  fierce,  in  short,  the  future 
outlook  for  a  united,  prosperous  and  happy  country,  governed  along  the 
lines  indicated  by  our  Constitution,  was  never  so  dark. 

But  at  best  the  situation  is  extremely  complex.  Certainly  authors 
of  panaceas  that  assume  the  situation  is  readily  solvable  must  be  classed 
as  amiable  cranks.  But  as  I  see  it,  in  all  the  confusion,  in  all  the 
struggles  there  stand  out  certain  things  when  stripped  of  all  their  subter- 
fuges and  camouflages  as  clearly  as  a  noon-day  sun.  What  are  they? 
My  answer  is  greed  and  selfishness.  Yes,  I  know  there  will  be  many 
denials  of  this  harsh  conclusion.  But  I  believe  the  conclusion  is  correct 
just  the  same. 

METHODS  OF  LABOR  UNIONS 

Labor  unions  are  getting  stronger  and  more  numerous  as  time  goes 
on.  Labor  is  demanding  more  and  more  of  the  things  it  deems  good 
to  have — higher  pay,  shorter  hours,  closed  shops,  a  larger  voice  in 
management  and  government.  Many  other  organizations — those  of  pro- 
fessional, technical,  skilled  and  vocational  people — have  likewise  pro- 
gressed in  what  practically  amounts  to  the  closed  shop.  These  groups 
have  used  various  methods  to  reach  their  ends — those  deemed  best  suited 
to  accomplish  the  purpose.  They  have  gone  to  law-making  bodies  with 
pleas  for  license  and  regulatory  laws,  urging  that  the  "public  good"  de- 
mands the  enforcement  of  such  laws.   The  public  good  is  always  held  up 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


121 


as  the  motive,  never  any  intimation  given  that  the  proponents  want 
these  laws — always  containing  a  "grandfather's  clause" — to  keep  their 
fields  from  becoming  crowded  by  new  entrants.  For  this  purpose  also 
standards  of  qualification  of  new  entrants  are  raised  from  time  to  time. 
Then,  when  the  supply  of  entrants  is  controlled,  up  go  fees  for  service. 
Numerous  illustrations  will  occur  to  all  observers  so  specifications  are 
unnecessary.  In  general  the  "ins"  are  always  trying  to  stay  in  and  the 
"outs"  are  always  scheming  to  get  in. 

STRUGGLES  BETWEEN  CAPITAL  AND  LABOR 

And  so  in  all  of  these  struggles  what  do  we  see?  We  see  capital 
and  management  seemingly  actively  at  work  devising  ways  and  means 
to  produce,  operate  and  get  results  with  the  fewest  employees  feasible. 
Local  illustrations  are  the  three  million  and  seven  million  dollar  projects, 
respectively,  much  heralded  because  temporarily  they  put  people  to  work. 
It  appears  that  ten  million  dollars  will  be  profitably  invested  and  yet  no 
service  to  the  public  seems  likely  to  be  cheapened.  But  these  investments 
will  likely  put  many  present  employees  out  of  work.  Idle  money  goes 
to  work,  many  needy  employees  go  to  idleness,  public  interests  go  to 
the  discard,  and  the  people  seem  to  be  lulled  by  the  claim  that  progress 
requires  these  changes  even  though  people  suffer  thereby.  The  thought 
that  jobs  come  before  modernity  is  ridiculed  as  archaic. 

But  capital  has  its  defense.  The  claim  is  that  labor  laws  backed 
by  oppressive  and  unreasonable  demands  of  labor  leaders  drive  manage- 
ment as  far  as  possible  from  having  anything  to  do  with  labor. 

In  practice,  then,  the  operations  of  both  capital  and  labor  multiply 
the  difficulties  affecting  employment,  thus  increasing  those  for  the  public. 
Hence  it  seems  both  capital  and  labor  are  very  unwise,  childish  and  short- 
sighted— using  mild  terms — for  out  of  their  utter  foolishness  has  largely 
grown  the  biggest  and  most  difficult  problem  of  our  country — unem- 
ployment. And  unless  there  is  face-about  by  all  concerned — and  this 
includes  the  public — this  problem  will  probably  increase  in  magnitude 
and  intensity  with  the  passing  years,  and  result  in  changing  profoundly 
the  order  of  society  we  inherited  from  the  fathers. 

PEACE  WILL  COME  THROUGH  KEEPING  GOD's  LAWS 

In  modern  America  the  love  of  substance  and  power  waxes  hot 
while  the  love  of  man  waxes  cold,  a  condition  that  the  Church  Welfare 
Plan  and  the  teachings  of  the  Church  are  striving  hard  to  correct  among 
the  Mormon  people.  What  is  the  remedy  for  the  conditions  indicated? 
Fundamentally,  I  think,  it  is  a  deep  and  thorough-going  repentance  by 
all  grades  of  society — the  elimination  of  greed,  selfishness  and  sin,  the 
recognition  of  the  truth  that  we  have  a  Father  in  heaven,  that  all  men 
are  brothers,  that  righteousness  only  will  bring  peace  and  security  to 
peoples  and  nations — this  being  the  only  basis  upon  which  a  peaceful, 
happy  America  can  be  built.  Strong  danger  signals  are  flashing  in  every 
direction.   Before  it  is  too  late  let  us  in  America  promptly  and  sincerely 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Dag 

turn  to  Christ  our  Redeemer  and  practice  his  teachings,  that  we  might 
escape  the  calamities  that  otherwise  will  surely  befall  us.  In  other 
words,  let  us  remember  and  keep  the  two  great  commandments,  making 
these  realities  in  our  own  lives  and  thus  by  example  as  well  as  precept 
teach  them  to  others.  I  pray  that  we  may  so  worthily  approach  our 
Heavenly  Father  that  he  will  give  us  strength,  wisdom  and  power  to  do 
these  things,  which  I  do  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  a  source  of  great  joy  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  meet 
with  you  this  beautiful  day  in  this  great  Conference  in  peace  and 
security.  We  have  occasion  to  rejoice  in  the  conditions  which  surround 
us.  Our  communities  are  making  steady  progress  in  temporal  and 
spiritual  pursuits,  in  righteousness  and  peace.  We  are  fortunate  in 
being  free  from  distress  and  trouble  such  as  prevail  in  many  other 
localities.  I  am  grateful  for  these  things.  I  desire  in  my  heart  to  do 
that  which  will  be  for  the  greatest  advancement  of  this  work  and  for 
the  welfare  of  this  people,  because  I  know  that  this  work  is  true  and 
that  it  is  intended  for  the  eventual  salvation  and  exaltation  of  everyone 
who  will  accept  and  observe  the  eternal  principles  which  lead  into  the 
presence  of  the  Lord. 

APPRECIATION  OF  BLESSINGS 

I  appreciate  the  kind  consideration  of  my  brethren  of  the  First 
Presidency  and  that  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  all  the  other 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  In  like  manner  I  am  grateful  for 
the  confidence  of  all  the  people — the  stake  presidencies,  the  bishoprics, 
and  all  the  other  officers  and  the  members  throughout  the  Church. 
I  desire  in  my  heart  and  soul  to  give  the  very  best  that  is  in  me  to 
help  to  accomplish  the  work  that  is  before  us  to  do,  because  this  work 
is  a  glorious  work,  and  justifies  every  effort  on  our  part  to  help  to  bring 
about  those  conditions  which  will  promote  the  greatest  unity,  faith  and 
love  among  this  people  and  promote  righteousness  in  the  earth,  and  to 
encourage  our  fellowmen  who  are  honest  in  heart  to  come  to  a  knowledge 
and  understanding  of  these  divine  principles  which  have  been  made 
known  to  us  by  the  Lord. 

HONOR  TO  PARENTS 

The  Lord  has  been  very  kind  to  me  throughout  my  life.  I  have 
enjoyed  many  blessings,  and  I  appreciate  the  opportunity  of  doing 
my  part,  in  fulfilling  my  responsibility  along  with  you  in  the  accom- 
plishment of  the  work  that  is  before  us.  I  have  never  sought  for  any 
place  or  position  in  this  Church  nor  in  life,  but  I  have  been  greatly 
blessed.  Many  opportunities  and  privileges  have  been  extended  to  me 
in  the  Church,  and  I  have  been  placed  in  many  positions  of  responsibility. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


123 


I  acknowledge  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  in  great  power  upon  me. 
Through  the  consideration  of  my  brethren  I  have  been  given  many 
opportunities  for  service.  I  was  born  of  goodly  parentage.  I  testify 
to  you  that  my  father  and  mother  gave  their  lives  for  the  welfare  of  the 
Church  and  the  advancement  thereof.  They  came  to  this  western  land 
as  pioneers  in  1847.  They  suffered  many  privations  in  their  early  lives, 
and  gave  their  best  efforts  in  endeavoring  to  advance  this  Cause. 

A  LAND  OF  GREAT  PROMISE 

This  western  hemisphere  is  a  land  of  great  promise.  On  this  land 
the  New  Jerusalem  will  be  founded.  The  predictions  of  prophets  who 
lived  upon  this  land  of  America  some  twenty-five  hundred  years  ago,  are 
clearly  portrayed.  When  Lehi  and  his  family  came  from  Jerusalem 
toward  the  promised  land  of  America,  the  Lord  revealed  to  Nephi 
the  following:  "Inasmuch  as  ye  shall  keep  my  commandments,  ye  shall 
prosper  and  shall  be  led  to  a  land  of  promise,  yea,  even  a  land  which  I 
have  prepared  for  you,  yea,  a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands."  Again 
he  declared  through  the  Prophet  Lehi  (II  Nephi  1:6,  7),  these  words: 

"Wherefore,  I,  Lehi,  prophesy  according  to  the  workings  of  the 
Spirit  which  is  in  me,  that  there  shall  none  come  into  this  land  save 
they  shall  be  brought  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

"Wherefore,  this  land  is  consecrated  unto  him  whom  he  shall  bring. 
And  if  it  so  be  that  they  shall  serve  him  according  to  the  commandments 
which  he  hath  given,  it  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  them ;  wherefore, 
they  shall  never  be  brought  down  into  captivity." 

Again  the  Lord  spoke  to  Jacob  in  that  same  period  as  follows  (II 
Nephi  10 :19)  :  "Wherefore,  I  will  consecrate  this  land  unto  thy  seed,  and 
them  who  shall  be  numbered  among  thy  seed,  forever,  for  the  land  of  their 
inheritance ;  for  it  is  a  choice  land,  saith  God  unto  me,  above  all  other 
lands,  wherefore  I  will  have  all  men  that  dwell  thereon  that  they  shall 
worship  me,  saith  God." 

The  Prophet  Jacob  speaks  further  (II  Nephi  10:10-13):  "But 
behold,  this  land,  said  God,  shall  be  a  land  of  thine  inheritance,  and  the 
Gentiles  shall  be  blessed  upon  the  land. 

"And  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  the  Gentiles,  and 
there  shall  be  no  kings  upon  the  land,  who  shall  raise  up  unto  the 
Gentiles. 

"And  I  will  fortify  this  land  against  all  other  nations. 

"And  he  that  fighteth  against  Zion  shall  perish,  saith  God." 

AVOID  ENTANGLING  ALLIANCES 

These  are  a  few  of  the  significant  promises  that  have  been  made 
with  regard  to  this  Western  hemisphere  and  the  people  who  shall  dwell 
upon  the  same.  Promises  have  been  made  that  if  they  will  do  the  will 
of  the  Lord,  if  they  shall  serve  him,  they  shall  receive  many  blessings ; 
and  if,  on  the  other  hand,  they  fail  to  observe  these  laws,  principles,  and 
commandments,  they  shall  fail  of  the  blessings.    Inasmuch  as  we  are 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Dag 

told  the  Lord  will  fortify  this  land  against  all  other  nations,  is  it  not 
true  conversely,  that  the  Lord  will  not  have  us,  the  peoples  of  these 
lands,  make  any  entangling  alliances  with  those  who  dwell  upon  the 
other  hemisphere  ?  It  is  our  responsibility  to  be  true  to  these  principles 
and  the  order  of  these  lands  upon  which  we  dwell;  and  with  all  due 
respect  to  the  other  lands,  that  we  shall  not  enter  in  any  agreements  or 
connections  with  them  that  will  in  any  way  interfere  with  our  continuing 
to  follow  the  laws  and  instructions  of  the  Lord  regarding  this  promised 
land.  I  believe  that  this  concerns  us.  I  think  that  the  present  conditions 
under  which  we  live  indicate  plainly  that  we  are  justified  in  maintaining 
a  loyal  attitude  toward  these  nations  and  a  neutral  attitude  toward  all 
other  nations,  in  order  that  this  land  of  America — this  promised  land — 
shall  become  a  place  for  the  growth  and  development  of  the  people  who 
shall  dwell  here,  and  who,  if  they  desire  to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  God, 
shall  receive  promises  and  blessings  which  will  come  to  them  only  through 
the  observance  of  righteousness,  good  will,  and  kindliness.  So,  there 
is  a  charge  placed  upon  every  human  soul  who  comes  here ;  and  I  think 
we  ought  to  sense  the  importance  of  encouraging  this  nation  and  every 
nation  upon  this  hemisphere  to  follow  up  their  opportunity  and  seek  to 
live  righteously,  justly,  and  fairly.  We  sing  that  beautiful  song,  "God 
Bless  America,"  and  in  connection  therewith  we  desire  the  blessing 
for  this  great  land.  There  is  a  responsibility  upon  the  people  of  these 
countries  to  fulfil  conditions  which  will  enable  us  best  to  accomplish 
the  purposes  for  which  we  are  here. 


THE  JAMESTOWN  COLONY 

In  that  connection  I  am  reminded  of  a  promise  made  some  twenty- 
two  hundred  years  later,  or  about  three  hundred  years  ago.  At  that 
time  what  was  known  as  the  Jamestown  Colony  came  to  America ;  and 
the  London  Council  of  Virginia,  through  whom  they  were  sent,  gave 
them  instructions.  They  came  under  very  auspicious  circumstances. 
They  were  the  first  permanent  English  settlement  upon  this  land.  They 
started  out,  apparently,  with  great  promise  of  the  future.  These  words 
of  instruction  were  given  to  them  at  that  time : 

"Lastly,  and  chiefly,  the  way  to  prosper  and  achieve  good  success 
is  to  make  yourselves  all  of  one  mind  for  the  good  of  your  country  and 
your  own,  and  to  serve  and  fear  God,  the  Giver  of  all  goodness ;  for 
every  plantation  which  our  Heavenly  Father  hath  not  planted  shall  be 
rooted  out." 

I  say  they  were  the  first  permanent  English  settlement  upon  this 
land ;  but  they  did  not  last  a  very  great  length  of  time.  Twelve  years 
after  they  arrived  here  in  1619,  the  first  legislative  assembly  upon  this 
continent  was  established,  and  in  the  same  year  slavery  was  first  adopted 
in  these  thirteen  colonies.  In  1676,  some  seventy  years  after  they  came 
here,  they  were  practically  destroyed  through  Bacon's  Rebellion,  appar- 
ently because  they  had  failed  to  live  up  to  the  principles  and  qualities 
which  promised  them  permanence  of  settlement. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


125 


BLESSINGS  COME  ONLY  THROUGH  ACCEPTANCE  OF  PROMISES 

I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  in  all  these  lands 
of  this  western  hemisphere,  as  well  as  all  over  the  world,  the  Lord 
desires  the  welfare  and  progress  of  mankind,  but,  in  desiring  that  welfare 
and  progress,  there  are  several  conditions  which  must  be  fulfilled;  and 
the  main  condition  is  that  they  must  live  in  harmony  with  the  will  of  the 
Lord  and  seek  to  do  that  which  he  desires  all  mankind  to  do — to  accept 
the  principles  of  righteousness  and  truth  and  observe  them.  That  chal- 
lenge is  to  every  man  and  woman  in  this  nation  and  on  this  continent, 
and  to  the  American  people  especially  we  desire  to  call  attention  to  the 
fact  that  they  shall  receive  blessings  upon  this  land  through  the  observ- 
ance of  the  will  of  the  Lord,  and  to  them  especially  is  charged  the 
responsibility  of  living  in  harmony  with  these  conditions. 

EXERCISE  OF  FREE  AGENCY  IN  RIGHTEOUSNESS 

And  then,  finally,  it  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  every  one  of 
us  as  Latter-day  Saints  to  realize  that  only  through  serving  God  do 
we  gain  true  success  and  liberty.  We  have  received  these  covenants; 
we  have  received  these  blessings ;  we  realize  how  important  they  are 
for  our  welfare  and  for  the  welfare  of  every  human  soul.  We  sense  the 
fact  that  promises  that  the  Lord  has  made  are  being  fulfilled  upon  those 
who  are  endeavoring  to  do  his  will  and  keep  his  commandments.  The 
right  of  choice  is  ours  as  to  whether  we  will  do  his  will  or  that  of  the 
adversary.  The  Lord  will  not  exert  any  compulsion,  and  the  Evil  One 
cannot,  except  as  we  yield  to  his  temptation.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  may 
help  us  to  sense  how  important  it  is  that  we  should  live  up  to  every 
expectation,  fulfil  every  requirement,  live  in  harmony  with  every  prin- 
ciple of  truth  and  righteousness  that  is  intended  for  the  welfare,  prog- 
ress and  advancement  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  this  land  and  in  these 
latter  days,  in  the  fulfilment  of  his  promises  in  this  dispensation  of  the 
fullness  of  times. 

I  desire  to  testify  to  you  that  this  work  is  true ;  that  it  is  the  fullness 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  that  the  work  done  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  true ;  that  he  was  endowed  with  the  spirit  and 
power  of  his  calling;  that  he  was  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the 
Lord  in  instituting  this  work  in  the  fullness  of  times  for  the  blessings 
and  salvation  of  mankind.  I  know  that  our  Eternal  Father  lives  and  that 
his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer  and  the  Mediator  between  us  and 
our  Father,  lives  and  will  be  the  means  of  bringing  to  pass  righteousness 
in  these  days  to  all  those  who  live  in  harmony  with  his  principles.  I 
desire  to  live  to  be  worthy  of  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  and  the  confidence 
of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  throughout  my  life.  I  do  it  and  ask 
it  all  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


At  the  request  of  President  Grant,  the  audience  arose  and,  with 
the  Choir,  sang  the  hymn,  "God  Moves  in  a  Mysterious  Way." 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Day 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  the  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  in  our  meetings  of  this  Conference.  I  am  .very  grateful  for 
the  address  of  the  First  Presidency  that  I  had  the  privilege  of  reading 
here  at  the  beginning  of  the  Conference.  I  am  very  grateful  for  the 
remarkable  and  wonderful  talks  of  President  Clark  and  President  Mc- 
Kay, and  I  am  grateful  for  all  the  other  fine  speeches  that  we  have  had. 

CONFERENCES  BLESSED  OF  THE  LORD 

Year  after  year  it  has  seemed  to  me  that  each  Conference  we  have 
had  has  been  almost  superior,  at  least  fully  the  equal  of  any  that  have 
gone  before,  and  each  year  I  have  wondered  if  we  would  reach  the 
same  heights  of  inspiration  and  blessings  of  the  Lord  in  our  Conferences, 
and  I  feel  that  we  have  not  been  lacking  in  this  great  Conference.  In 
my  judgment  the  Lord  has  seen  fit  to  pour  out  his  Spirit  in  great 
abundance  upon  us  in  these  times. 

PLANS  LAID  BY  JOSEPH  SMITH  CARRIED  OUT 

I  am  truly  grateful  for  the  safe  arrival  of  our  missionaries  from 
Europe.  Nearly  all  of  them  are  here  now.  I  am  very  grateful  indeed 
for  every  blessing  that  the  Lord  has  seen  fit  to  bestow  upon  his  people. 
We  have  been  a  blessed  people  from  the  day  that  we  arrived  in  this 
section  of  the  country.  The  Lord  led  the  people  here  under  the  inspira- 
tion of  Brigham  Young,  and  the  Lord  has  blessed  the  individual  manage- 
ment of  the  various  presidents  of  this  Church  from  the  days  of  Brigham 
Young  until  now.  The  reason  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  us  is  that  we 
as  a  people  have  tried  to  carry  out  the  advice,  counsel,  and  plans  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  In  no  one  thing  did  Brigham  Young  attempt 
to  claim  that  in  the  organization  set  up  and  the  plans  that  were  made 
he  was  doing  anything  more  than  building  upon  the  foundation  laid 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord. 

When  we  stop  to  think  of  the  marvelous  work  that  the  Prophet 
Joseph  did,  sometimes  I  wonder  how  any  man  of  intelligence  can  look 
into  the  life  of  that  man,  can  know  of  his  imprisonment,  of  the  drivings, 
of  the  persecutions,  of  the  tarring  and  feathering,  of  the  sentence  of 
death  having  been  passed  upon  him,  and  then  read  the  wonderful  things 
that  we  have  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants — I  cannot  understand  how 
any  reasonable  man  can  fail  to  acknowledge  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord 
in  his  accomplishments.  I  cannot  understand  how  any  intelligent  man 
could  think  that  any  man  without  the  help  of  the  Lord  could  have 
produced  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  has  been  before  us  now  for  more 
than  a  hundred  years  and  has  stood  the  test  during  all  that  period  of 
time,  notwithstanding  the  ridicule  that  has  been  brought  against  it,  for 
one  reason  and  then  another.  Today  that  book  which  was  translated 
by  Joseph  Smith  as  the  instrumentality  of  the  Lord  stands  out  supreme. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


127 


It  is  today  the  greatest  missionary  that  we  have  for  proclaiming  this 
Gospel,  there  is  nothing  else  to  compare  with  it. 

I  rejoice  in  my  acquaintance  with  Brigham  Young  as  a  child  and 
later  as  a  man.  He  loved  little  children  dearly,  as  did  my  father,  from 
what  everyone  tells  me.  Father  made  the  remark  that  he  did  not  believe 
anyone  loved  little  children  more  than  did  he. 

I  was  about  to  say  something,  but  I  do  not  think  it  is  worthy  of  it, 
relative  to  remarks  made  about  my  father.  It  takes  dogs  to  bark,  of 
course  they  are  necessary,  and  it  is  just  as  well  to  let  them  bark,  because 
barking  does  not  hurt  anybody,  just  so  long  as  we  keep  the  dogs  far 
enough  away  that  they  do  not  bite. 

COMMENDATION  FOR  CHOIRS 

I  rejoice  in  our  wonderful  Choir.  I  rejoice  in  the  fine  management 
of  this  Choir  and  our  fine  organists.  I  rejoice  in  our  having  such  fine 
groups  of  singers  in  different  parts  of  Utah  that  we  can  bring  here  to 
sing  for  us.  I  do  not  think  there  is  another  people  in  the  world  of  the 
same  number  that  can  begin  to  compare  with  our  people  as  congregational 
singers.   I  do  not  think  we  can  find  them  anywhere  else. 

CHOIR  AT  THE  WORLD'S  FAIR  IN  1893 

I  rejoice  in  the  statement  made  that  if  we  had  had  justice  given 
to  us  way  back  in  1893  we  would  have  won  the  first  prize  for  the  best 
chorus  of  250  voices.  The  manager  of  one  of  the  greatest  booking 
agencies  in  New  York — Major  Pond — said  after  the  contest: 

"My,  I  am  glad  I  was  not  the  judge,  I  would  have  had  to  give  the 
prize  to  those  awful  Mormons." 

The  Scranton  Choir  engaged  fifty  voices  from  Wales  because  they 
were  afraid  of  our  choir.  The  Choir  was  permitted  to  give  concerts 
to  help  pay  their  expenses  before  the  contest,  and  the  Pennsylvania  people 
were  so  frightened  that  they  hired  the  fifty  best  voices  from  Wales  to 
help  them  out,  and  the  Major  said :  "Those  fifty  voices  upset  the  perfect 
harmony  of  the  four  parts,  and  it  was  not  so  good  a  choir  with  those 
voices  as  it  was  without  them."  And  that  is  the  exact  criticism  that 
I  received  from  one  of  my  lifelong  nearest  and  dearest  and  most  closely 
associated  friends,  the  late  Horace  G.  Whitney,  who  managed  the  Choir 
upon  that  occasion.  I  was  in  New  York,  the  panic  was  on,  and  I  was 
there  laboring  to  obtain  money  with  which  to  keep  myself  and  others 
alive  financially.   Horace  wrote  to  me  and  said : 

"Heber,  I  would  have  been  satisfied  had  they  put  the  $1000.00  and 
the  $5000.00  prizes  together  and  divided  the  amount,  but  it  was  an 
outrage  to  give  the  first  prize  to  the  other  choir ;  we  were  better  than  the 
other  choir." 

I  wrote  and  said :  "My  dear  Bud :  You  know  they  say,  love  is  blind, 
cannot  smell  nor  hear.  You  came  up  as  a  child  under  Stephens'  training. 
You  learned  to  love  him  with  all  your  heart,  you  love  the  choir,  and  I 
shall  have  to  vote,  seeing  yoji  would  have  been  satisfied  with  half  the 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  8  Third  Dag 

amount  if  they  had  put  the  two  prizes  together — -I  shall  have  to  vote 
with  the  committee  that  gave  it  to  Scranton." 

Two  days  later — being  in  New  York  at  the  time,  and  being 
the  president  of  the  Salt  Lake  Theatre  and  familiar  with  musical 
people, — I  learned  of  Major  Pond's  criticism.  So  I  wrote  to  Bud: 
"You  can  hear,  and  you  can  smell,  and  you  made  a  fair  decision." 

GRATEFUL  FOR  WORK  OF  CHURCH  MUSICIANS 

I  rejoice  in  the  splendid  work  that  has  been  done.  I  feel  a  debt  of 
gratitude  to  our  singers.  I  feel  a  debt  of  gratitude  to  Evan  Stephens, 
George  Careless,  to  Ebenezer  Beesley,  Joseph  Daynes,  and  others 
who  have  given  us  the  beautiful  music  that  we  have.  I  am  grate- 
ful to  them.  These  selections  lift  us  up,  and  they  build  us  up. 
The  Lord  says  that  the  song  of  the  righteous  is  a  prayer  unto  him, 
and  I  love  to  hear  these  beautiful  prayers.  I  never  get  tired  of  them. 
I  want  you  to  know  that  I  am  sure  I  sing  or  repeat  this  song  to  myself 
("God  Moves  in  a  Mysterious  Way")  four  or  five  times  a  week  regularly, 
and  I  never  hear  it,  I  never  sing  it  and  I  never  read  it  that  I  do  not 
thank  God  for  the  splendid  words.  There  is  nothing  truer  than  the 
last  verse : 

Blind  unbelief  is  sure  to  err, 
And  scan  His  work  in  vain; 
God  is  his  own  interpreter, 
And  He  will  make  it  plain. 

A  MIGHTY  PEOPLE 

God  predicted  things  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  have 
been  fulfilled.  He  said  that  "the  Saints  should  continue  to  suffer  much 
affliction  and  would  be  driven  to  the  Rocky  Mountains.  Many  would 
apostatize,  others  would  be  put  to  death  by  our  persecutors  or  lose  their 
lives  in  consequence  of  exposure  or  disease,  and  some  would  go  to  assist 
in  making  settlements  and  building  cities  and  see  the  Saints  become  a 
mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains." 

Are  we  a  mighty  people  ?  We  are.  6800  men  holding  the  priesthood 
were  in  this  building  last  night.  No  other  people  in  the  world  like  us ; 
no  other  people  with  the  power  that  we  have  here,  because  we  are  follow- 
ing a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  the  man  whom  God  chose  to  organize 
this  Church,  and  whom  he  visited  and  to  whom  he  introduced  his  beloved 
Son.  I  have  met  hundreds  of  men  who  have  said,  "If  it  were  not 
for  Joseph  Smith  I  could  accept  your  religion."  Any  man  who  does 
not  believe  in  Joseph  Smith  as  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living 
God  has  no  right  to  be  in  this  Church.  That  revelation  to  Joseph  Smith 
is  the  foundation  stone.  If  Joseph  Smith  did  not  have  that  interview 
with  God  and  Jesus  Christ  the  whole  Mormon  fabric  is  a  failure  and 
a  fraud.  It  is  not  worth  anything  on  earth.  But  God  did  come,  God 
did  introduce  his  Son,  God  did  inspire  that  man  to  organize  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  all  the  opposition  of  the  world  is  not  able  to  withstand 
the  truth.   It  is  flourishing,  it  is  growing,  and  it  will  grow  more.   I  know 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  129 

Sunday.  October  8  Third  Day 

beyond  a  shadow  of  doubt  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged.  It  is  one  of  the  joys  of  my  life  at  home  and  abroad,  in  private 
and  in  public  to  testify  that  I  know  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  live,  that 
God  lives,  that  he  hears  and  answers  our  prayers.  He  has  heard  and 
answered  mine  from  childhood  until  the  present  day.  He  heard  and 
answered  the  prayers  of  that  beloved  mother  of  mine.  Under  the 
inspiration  of  the  living  God  she  planted  in  my  heart  a  love  of  truth,  a 
love,  of  God,  a  love  of  the  Prophet  Joseph.  Her  description  of  that 
man  was  that  he  was  one  of  the  finest,  one  of  the  most  wonderful  men 
she  had  ever  laid  eyes  upon.  She  knew  as  she  knew  that  she  lived  that 
he  was  a  prophet  of  God.  And  she  knew  that  Brigham  Young  was 
his  successor.  Why?  Because  she  was  in  Nauvoo  when  Brigham 
Young  stood  up  and  was  transfigured  in  voice  and  form  before  the 
people,  and  the  mantle  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  fell  upon  him  when 
Sidney  Rigdon,  in  good  plain  English,  tried  to  steal  the  Church. 

BLESSINGS  PROMISED  THOSE  WHO  LIVE  THE  GOSPEL 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  guide  us  by  his  Spirit.  So  far  as  I  am 
entitled  to  do  so  I  pray  God  for  his  Spirit  to  bless  each  and  all  of  you. 
I  pray  God  for  you  one  and  all  to  love  this  Gospel,  to  think  of  it  as  of 
more  value  than  anything  else  in  all  the  world,  and  that  is  what  it  is.  To 
know  that  if  we  keep  the  commandments  of  God  we  shall  go  back  into 
his  presence ;  to  know  that  we  are  joint  heirs  with  Jesus  Christ  if  we  only 
live  the  Gospel ;  to  know  that  this  is  truly  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
worth  more  than  anything  else  in  all  the  wide  world. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  each  and  every  one  of  us  who  have  the  knowledge 
of  the  divinity  of  this  work.  May  we  grow  and  increase  in  that  knowl- 
edge, and  above  all,  may  we  live  it,  that  our  lives  may  proclaim  it,  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  our  Redeemer,  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The  Heavens  are  Telling  the  Glory 
of  God"  (Haydn). 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  pronounced  the  benediction. 
Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  musical  exercises  at  the  Friday  sessions  were  furnished  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  Charlotte  O.  Sackett,  Conductor;  at 
the  Saturday  sessions  by  the  Branch  Agricultural  College  Chorus,  of 
Cedar  City,  Utah,  William  H.  Manning,  Conductor ;  and  at  the  Sunday 
sessions  by  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Con- 
ductor. The  congregational  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
and  Richard  P.  Condie. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Alexander  Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph      41 

Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  0   59 

A  tribute  to  people  in  far-away  stakes,  60 — Present  problems  to 
be  faced,  60 — Self-examination  urged,  61— Following  a  leader,  61 
— Responsibility  of  leadership,  62 — The  drink  evil  points  to  a 
downward  course,  63. 

Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of     2 

Bailey,  Elder  W.  Francis   49 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O.    76 

Present  need  of  the  world,  76 — Observance  of  God's  laws  brings 
happiness,  77 — Personal  visits  of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  78. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E   91 

Uncertainty  affects  mankind,  91 — Man  finds  way  to  conquer  ills, 
91 — Men's  acts  cause  suffering,  92 — Remedy  given  in  Christ's 
teachings,  92 — Jesus  pointed  the  true  way,  93 — Power  of  public 
opinion,  94 — Keeping  God's  commandments  will  bring  peace,  95. 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A.   18 

Desire  for  immortality  natural,  18 — A  school-boy's  faith,  19 — 
The  Brother  of  Jared's  experience,  19 — Experiences  with  the  dy- 
ing, 20 — Knowledge  gained  to  continue  after  death,  20 — Elijah's 
mission,  21. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q  122 

Appreciation  of  blessings,  122 — A  land  of  great  promise,  123 — 
Avoid  entangling  alliances,  123 — The  Jamestown  Colony,  124 — 
Exercise  of  free  agency  in  righteousness,  125. 

Changes  in  Officers            5 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast   96 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   9 

Constitution  inspired,  10 — A  nation  with  Christian  standards,  10 
— Declaration  of  belief,  10 — Dangers  threaten,  11 — Warning 
against  false  impressions,  11 — War  and  its  causes,  12 — A  natural 
choice,  13 — America's  position  in  European  affairs,  14 — Neutrali- 
ty violations,  14 — America,  the  great  neutral,  15 — A  great  part 
to  play,  15 — Freedom  in  domestic  policy,  15 — Protection  of  the 
weak,  16 — Plagues  which  follow  war,  17. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   27 

Study  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  urged,  28 — Importance  of  reve- 
lations, 29 — Daniel's  prophecy,  30 — A  marvelous  work,  30 — 
Riches  of  eternal  life,  31. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L     86 

Our  message  not  of  man,  86 — Faith  a  sure  foundation  for  knowl- 
edge, 87 — Happiness  the  goal  of  real  progress,  87 — A  lesson 
taught  in  a  story,  88 — Harmony  of  faith  and  knowledge  the  hope 
of  the  world,  89. 

Eyring,  Elder  Carl  F     47 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  —.   9 

Blesses  those  who  keep  the  laws  of  God,  9. 


INDEX 


131 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   43 

Gratitude  for  outpouring  of  spirit  at  conference  meetings,  43- — 
Praise  for  authorities  of  Church  past  and  present,  43 — Latter-day- 
Saints  becoming  known,  43 — A  minister's  perfidy,  44. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  106 

Excuses  absentees,  106. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  106 

Expressed  gratitude  for  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  106. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.   126 

Conferences  blessed  of  the  Lord,  126 — Plans  laid  by  Joseph 
Smith  carried  out,  126 — Commendation  for  choir,  127 — Choir  at 
the  World's  Fair  in  1893,  127— Grateful  for  work  of  Church  mu- 
sicians, 128 — A  mighty  people,  128 — Blessings  promised  those 
who  live  the  Gospel,  129. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K     37 

A  Fourth  of  July  incident,  37 — Responsibility  of  preaching  the 
truth,  38 — Success  of  early  missionaries,  37 — Successful  Stake  mis- 
sionary work,  39 — Words  of  advice  from  the  Lord,  39. 

Hinckley,  Elder  Bryant  S   34 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R     31 

Gratitude  for  membership  in  the  Church,  3 — Purpose  in  Joseph 
Smith's  first  vision,  32 — Principles  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel 
bring  joy,  32 — The  purposes  of  baptism,  33 — Grateful  for  the 
Priesthood,  34. 

Larson,  Elder  Gustive  O.      51 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R      55 

A  tribute  to  the  memory  of  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  SS — Studying  and 
understanding  the  scriptures,  55 — Opportunities  for  religious 
training,  55 — The  Bible  as  a  teacher,  56 — Statements  of  scholars, 
57 — Methods  of  studying  the  scriptures,  57 — A  study  of  the  scrip- 
tures urged,  58 — Benefit  of  memorizing  the  scriptures,  58 — Love 
necessary  to  world  peace,  59. 

McKay,  President  David  O.  101 

Jesus'  prayer  for  unity,  101 — Unityin  the  home,  102 — Unity  in 
Church  organizations,  102 — Unpatriotic  activities  a  menace  to 
free  government,  102 — Washington's  greatest  trial,  103 — Anti- 
Americanism  sowing  discord,  103 — A  statement  as  to  communism, 
104 — Warning  to  Latter-day  Saints,  104 — Importance  of  upholding 
the  Constitution,  105. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.    116 

Thankful  for  leaders,  116 — Latter-day  Saint  belief  practical,  117 
• — Want,  the  cause  of  unrest  in  the  world,  117 — Forces  which  cause 
unemployment,  118 — Remedies  suggested,  118 — Methods  of  Labor 
Unions,  120 — Struggles  between  capital  and  labor,  121 — Peace 
will  come  through  keeping  God's  laws,  121. 

National  Broadcast       95 

Recs,  Elder  Alfred  C.  -     71 

Richards,  Elder  George  F  107 

Testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  Latter-day  work,  107 — Safety  in 
keeping  commandments  of  God,  108 — Purpose  of  life  on  earth,  108 
— The  Spirit  of  God  unfolds  meaning  of  scriptures,  109 — The 
work  for  the  dead  important,  109 — Redemption  through  Jesus 
Christ,  110 — Love  shown  by  service,  111. 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    22 

An  increase  of  faith  needed,  22 — A  lack  of  faith  among  youth 
of  the  Church  brings  reproach,  23 — Value  of  patriarchal  blessings, 
24 — Faith-promoting  incidents,  24 — Promises  of  the  Lord  sure  of 
fulfillment,  26 — Living  faith  a  saving  power,  27. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   64 

One  method  of  increasing  prosperity,  64 — Happiness  in  honest 
labor,  65 — Skilled  labor  defined,  66 — Capitalism  in  its  true  sense, 
67 — The  need  for  cooperation,  67 — The  Gospel  of  Work,  68 — Edu- 
cation in  economics  urged,  68 — Results  of  unfair  methods,  69 — 
Elements  of  success,  70 — Peace  rests  upon  economic  foundation, 
70 — The  duty  of  Church  members,  71. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   45 

The  World  War  and  its  debt,  43 — Brigham  Young's  statement 
about  religion,  44— A  writer's  opinion  on  present  conditions,  46 — 
Conditions  following  War,  46 — -Blessings  of  God  have  been  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  47. 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S  112 

Love  of  truth  shown  b3'  obedience,  112 — Grateful  for  Church  and 
country,  112 — The  Lord's  covenants  with  His  chosen  people,  112, 
— America  the  land  of  Joseph,  113 — Books  divine,  114 — blessings 
of  liberty,  115. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L       80 

Grateful  for  blessings,  80 — Seeds  of  good  and  evil,  80 — The  home 
university,  80 — Fundamentals  in  training  of  children,  81 — Testi- 
mony comes  through  revelation,  81 — Advantages  of  a  Latter-day 
Saint  home,  82 — Greatness  of  the  Constitution  to  be  taught,  82— 
Warning  against  unpatriotic  doctrines,  84 — True  intelligence, 
84 — -Home  training  important,  84 — The  Lord's  law  of  health,  85 
— Preparation  for  leadership,'  85. 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S.    40 


(Book, 

diswudqujcUd&hjiL, 

The  Deseret  Book  Company  is  headquarters  for  all 
L.  D.  S.  publications,  as  well  as  for  general  books  of 
every  kind.  We  especially  call  your  attention  to  the 
following  books,  on  sale  here: 

Program  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  by  John  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

Priesthood  and  Church  Welfare 

(Specially  priced  while  they  last  90c — 6  for  $5.00 

A  Rational  Theology 

by  J.  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

A  Century  of  Mormonism  in  Great  Britain, 

by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.25  (postpaid) 

Romance  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 

by  Josiah  E.  Hickman  $2.50  (postpaid) 

Progress  of  Man, 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  $1.50  (postpaid) 

Whatever  your  book  needs,  consult  us  first.  We  have 
the  most  comprehensive  stock  of  books  in  the  inter- 
mountcdn  region,  and  we  specialize  in  books  about  the 
Mormons  and  the  West.  We  invite  your  inquiries. 

Prompt  Service  by  Mail. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 


Taken  from  his  sermons  and  writings  as  they  are  found  in  the  Documentary 
History  and  other  publications  of  the  Church  and  written  or  published  in 
the  days  of  the  Prophet's  ministry 

Selected  and  arranged  by  the  Historian,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  his 
Assistants  in  the  Historian's  Office  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Many  of  these  discourses  and  writings  appear  in  the  Documentary 
History  of  the  Church,  but  others  have  not  been  included  in  these  volumes, 
but  are  scattered  through  the  early  publications  of  the  Church.  It  has 
been  difficult  even  for  the  student  to  obtain  these  because  the  old  publica- 
tions are  not  accessible  for  general  use. 

SPECIALLY  PRICED  AT  $2.00 


Stories  of  Latter-day  Saint  Hymns 

(Their  Authors  and  Composers) 
By 

GEORGE  D.  PYPER 

"The  Latter-day  Saints  have  always  been  a  singing  people.  Some 
of  their  greatest  sermons  and  messages  have  come  through  the  avenue  of 
song." 

So  writes  the  author,  George  D.  Pyper,  in  this  fascinating  story  of  an 
essential  feature  in  the  lives  of  a  culture  loving  people. 

Well  illustrated  throughout,  this  work  will  take  a  high  place  in  literary 
circes,  and  will  win  a  permanent  spot  in  the  hearts  of  all  lovers  of  great 
and  good  music. 

PRICE— $2.00 


LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

Sixth  President  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
By  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

From  the  day  of  his  birth  until  the  day  of  his  passing — four  score 
years — there  was  scarcely  a  day  that  was  not  filled  with  intense  and  in- 
teresting activity.  He  commenced  life  in  the  midst  of  tribulation  and 
dark  persecution,  and  through  the  greater  part  of  his  life  he  was  called 
upon  to  face  the  spirit  of  hate  and  wickedness,  to  a  degree  almost  beyond 
human  endurance. 

This  volume  dedicated  to  a  man  among  men  with  the  faith  of  the 
prophets  of  old.  Its  worth  in  your  library  is  incomprehensible  and  its  pres- 
ence, when  read,  will  give  words  of  wisdom  and  words  of  courage. 

PRICE— $2.50 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPMY 


44  East  on  South  Temple 


Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


