Owl  (Hwrudbi&d.  Jitfieenik. 
ANNUAL 

MIKE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OpJiiL  6,  7  and,  8,  1%5 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

WE  PRESENT 

JhiL  fiooJcofc.  VYl&WWfL 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition  50c — by  mail  60c 

Cloth  Binding.  Embossed  $1.50 

Full  Morocco  $3.50 

J>Aomv  filowJbojf.io  fijwpJinL 

AND 

TftjoihcA.  $bW2A,  pwwL  ihsL  (Bonk  WjfwwiL 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  that  children 
love  to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth  $1.25 

J(ey~  to  Jh&oJbqy, 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  warranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price   _  :  $1.00 

COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Presented  in  6  volumes 

Price   $25.00 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY  10.  UTAH 


The  One  Hundred  Fifteenth  Annual  Confer- 


ence of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Fifteenth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  April  6,  7,  and  8,  1945. 

Sessions  of  the  Conference  were  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
Temple  Square,  Friday  at  10  a.m.  and  2  p.m.,  and  Saturday  at  10  a.m., 
2  p.m.  and  7  p.m.  Sessions  were  held  in  the  great  Tabernacle  Sunday 
at  10  a.m.  and  2  p.m. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City 
and  Radio  Station  KSUB  of  Cedar  City,  Utah,  the  proceedings  of  the 
Conference,  with  the  exception  of  the  Saturday  evening  meeting, 
were  broadcast  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public.  In  addition, 
Radio  Station  KFXD  of  Nampa,  Idaho,  carried  the  Saturday  after- 
noon and  Sunday  morning  meetings. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, presided  at  all  of  the  sessions  of  the  Conference  and  conduct- 
ed the  services. 

Owing  to  conditions  incident  to  the  war  emergency,  the  general 
public  were  not  invited  to  attend  the  Conference.  Those  present  con- 
sisted of  the  following: 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

Of  The  First  Presidency:  *,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and  David  O. 
McKay. 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  George  Albert  Smith, 
George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L  Richards, 
John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles  A.  Callis,  Albert  E. 
Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  T.  Benson,  and 
Mark  E.  Petersen. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Council' of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Marion  G. 
Romney,  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,  Alma  Sonne,  and 
Nicholas  G.  Smith. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine 

^President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  absent  because  of  illness. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

R.  Ivins,  John  H.  Taylor,  Richard  L.  Evans,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  Mil- 
ton R.  Hunter  *.  Seymour  Dilworth  Young**. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ashton, 
and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 

Other  Authorities  and  Officers  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A. 
William  Lund,  assistant. 

Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Superintendency,  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  Board. 

Superintendency,  General  Board  of  Y.M.M.I.A. 

Commissioner  of  Education  and  Seminary  Supervisors. 

One  member  of  the  Presidency  of  each  Stake. 

The  President  of  the  High  Priests  Quorum  in  each  Stake. 

The  senior  member  of  the  High  Council  of  each  Stake. 

One  member  of  the  Bishopric  of  each  Ward,  the  President  of 
each  Dependent  Branch  in  the  wards,  and  one  member  of  the  Presi- 
dency of  each  Independent  Branch  in  the  Stakes. 

i 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  on  Temple  Square,  Friday,  April  6,  at  10  o'clock  a.m. 

In  the  absence  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  was  convalesc- 
ing from  an  illness,  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency,  presided  and  conducted  the  services. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  115th  Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

The  Church  was  organized  under  the  direction,  of  the  Lord  115 

*  Milton  R.  Hunter  was  sustained  at  this  conference  as  a  mem- 
ber of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by 
the  death  of  Rufus  K.  Hardy  March  7,  1945. 

** Seymour  Dilworth  Young  was  sustained  as  a  member  of  the 
First  Council  of  the  Seventy  at  this  Conference  to  fill  the  vacancy 
caused  by  the  death  of  Samuel  O.  Bennion  March  8,  1945. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  3 


years  ago  today,  with  six  members.  Its  membership  today  is  ap- 
proaching 1,000,000. 

This  conference  is  meeting  with  the  approval  of  .the  proper  Fed- 
eral authorities.  In  conformity  with  the  policy  announced  by  those 
authorities  for  the  curtailing  of  attendance  at  conventions,  confer- 
ences, and  like  gatherings,  and  acceding  to  their  request  that  we  do 
so  act,  the  attendance  at  this  Conference  has  been  drastically  limited. 
This  accords  with  the  policy  regarding  attendance  at  these  Con- 
ferences and  other  Church  gatherings  that  was  voluntarily  adopted 
and  put  into  force  by  the  Church  itself  immediately  after  the  attack 
on  Pearl  Harbor.  The  attendance  is  based  upon  a  representation  of 
Church  administrative  units  and  has  been  worked  out  on  a  Church- 
wide  basis,  irrespective  of  geographic  location,  as  was  only  fair  and 
just.  Our  attendance  at  this  Conference  will  be  only  about  14% 
of  the  normal  attendance  at  such  gatherings.  We  eagerly  look  for- 
ward to  the  time  when  we  may  again  resume  the  holding  of  General 
Conferences  with  unlimited  attendance. 

There  are  on  the  stand  this  morning  all  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  except  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  President  of  the 
Church,  who  on  the  advice  of  his  physicians  is  remaining  at  his  home. 
However,  he  is  able  to  listen  to  the  Conference  proceedings  on  a  di- 
rect wire  from  the  Assembly  Hall  to  his  home.  We  of  this  body  rep- 
resenting the  priesthood  leadership  of  the  Church  send  to  you,  Presi- 
dent Grant,  our  love  and  our  greetings  and  our  prayers  in  your  behalf 
for  your  early  and  complete  recovery.  We  thank  our  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  preservation  of  your  life,  and  for  the  degree  of  health 
and  strength  He  has  given  you.  We  ask  Him  to  give  you  his  richest 
blessings.  We  honor  and  revere  you  and  we  thank  our  Heavenly 
Father  for  your  wisdom  and.  guidance  over  the  years  and  now. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 

President  Grant  has  requested  his  First  Counselor,  President 
Clark,  who  is  speaking,  to  conduct  the  Conference  services. 

The  full  service  will  be  broadcast  over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  as  will  also  the  service  this  afternoon  beginning  at  2:00  p.m. 
The  services  tomorrow,  Saturday,  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m.  will 
likewise  be  broadcast  over  KSL,  and  also  the  two  services  on  Sunday 
at  the  same  hours.  These  same  sessions  will  be  broadcast  over  station 
KSUB  at  Cedar  City. 

The  s.inging  will  be  by  the  congregation,  composed  of  about  1 500 
male  members,  representing  the  priesthood  leadership  of  the  Church. 
Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  is  the  conductor;  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  is 
the  organist. 

The  first  song  will  be  "Redeemer  of  Israel,"  Song  Folder  No. 
3,  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  231,  Hymn  Book  No.  194. 

We  suggest  that  our  audience  of  the  air  join  in  the  singing  of 
the  Conference. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Axel  J.  An- 
dresen  of  the  South  Salt  Lake  Stake. 


4 

Friday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 
Elder  Axel  J.  Andresen  offered  the  invocation. 
The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  Let  Us  Anew,"  (Song 
Folder  No.  1 8,  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  1 95 ) . 


President  Clark: 

President  Heber  J.  Grant,  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus' 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  has  prepared  a  message  for  the  people, 
which  will  now  be  read  by  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  Elder  Joseph 
Anderson. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  does  not  seem  possible  that  another  six  months  have  passed 
since  we-  last  had  the  privilege  of  meeting  here  in  a  general  conference 
of  the  Church.  Since  then  much  has  happened — in  our  own  lives  and 
in  the  events  of  the  world.  Since  then,  I  have  been  privileged  to  com- 
plete my  eighty-eighth  year  and  to  live  into  the  eighty-ninth  year  of 
my  life.  The  Lord  has  blessed  and  sustained  us,  both  Sister  Grant 
and  me,  and  among  the  richest  of  our  blessings  are  our  brethren  and 
sisters  and  our  friends,  whose  prayers  in  our  behalf  have  blessed  our 
lives,  and  whose  thoughtfulness  in  many  ways  has  made  our  days 
happier. 

Joy  in  the  Integrity  of  the  Officers  of  the  Church 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  many  blessings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  that  we  enjoy.  I  rejoice  in  having  the  fellowship  and  the  faith 
and  prayers  and  good  feeling  of  those  with  whom  I  associate,  I  re- 
joice in  the  integrity,  the  faith,  and  the  diligence  of  those  who  preside 
in  the  various  stakes  of  Zion.  I  realize  that  we  are  beset  with  faults 
and  failings  and  imperfections,  but  I  am  convinced  that  almost  with- 
out exception  those  who  have  the  charge  of  the  Saints  in  the  wards 
and  stakes  of  Zion,  and  in  the  missions  are  men  of  God,  and  that  their 
integrity  is  beyond  question,  and  that,  if  need  be,  they  would  be  ready 
and  willing  to  lay  down  their  lives  for  the  advancement  of  the  king- 
dom of  God.  I  believe  that  the  elders  of  Israel  in  all  the  different 
wards  and  stakes  of  Zion  earnestly  desire  to  know  the  mind  and  will 
of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  that  they  are  ready  and  willing  to  do 
anything  that  is  within  their  power,  to  fulfill  that  mind  and  that  will 
and  to  carry  it  out  in  their  lives.  It  is  this  integrity  and  this  desire 
that  give  me  joy  and  satisfaction,  and  that  encourage  me  in  the  re- 
sponsibilities that  devolve  upon  me. 

The  Passing  of  Elders  Samuel  O.  Bennion  and  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Since  we  last  met,  the  Church  has  been  called  upon  to  mourn  the 
passing  of  two  of  our  brethren  of  the  General  Authorities,  Brothers 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  ].  GRANT 


5 


Samuel  O.  Bennion  and  Rufus  K.  Hardy,  both  of  the  First  Council 
of  the  Seventy.  I  honored  them  and  loved  them.  They  were  true 
men  of  God,  and  rendered  great -service  in  the  Lord's  latter-day  work. 
We  miss  them  and  shall  continue  to  miss  them  in  the  presiding  coun- 
cils of  the  Church — but  their  place  in  our  Father's  kingdom  is  assured. 
They  were  valiant  preachers  of  righteousness  and  will  receive  the 
blessings  of  the  valiant  and  of  the  righteous.  May  God  our  Father 
give  his  peace  and  comfort  to  their  devoted  wives,  Sister  Hardy  and 
Sister  Bennion,  and  to  their  families. 

Concerning  Tithing  and  Other  Principles 

I  rejoice  in  the  increased  tithes  and  offerings  of  this  people,  and 
in  the  increased  numbers  who  are  fulfilling  their  financial  obligations 
to  the  Lord,  and  I  hope  and  pray  that  this  principle  and  all  the  other 
principles  of  the  gospel  are  being  taught  our  children  in  our  homes, 
and  in  our  Church  organizations. 

It  should  be  the  pride  of  every  bishop  and  of  every  bishop's 
counselor,  and  of  the  president  of  every  stake  and  his  counselors,  and 
of  every  officer  and  teacher,  and  of  every  member  of  this  Church, 
young  and  old,  that  they  earnestly  and  conscientiously  pay  their  tith- 
ing. We  are  capable  of  accomplishing  this  if  we  will  only  think  so" 
and  labor  to  that  end. 

I  realize  and  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  Lord  could  pour  out  up- 
on us  an  abundance  of  the  wealth  of  this  world,  that  he  could  make 
us  all  rich,  because  the  mountains  are  full  of  wealth,  and  he  could  open 
up  avenues  to  us  that  we  could  all  become  wealthy,  but  in  doing  this 
we  would  have  no  opportunity  of  showing  our  faith  by  our  works;  we 
would  have  no  opportunity  of  developing  our  manhood  and  of  fitting 
and  preparing  ourselves  by  actual  labor  to  go  back  and  dwell  .in  the 
presence  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

As  I  understand  the  teachings  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ,  they  were  that  it  would  profit  no  man  if  he  should  gain  the 
whole  world  and  lose  his  own  soul.  It  is  by  the  faithful  discharge  of 
the  duties  and  the  obligations  that  rest  upon  us  in  the  Church  of  God 
that  we  are  developed.  It  is  by  the  exercise  of  our  mental  faculties 
that  we  improve  upon  them;  it  is  by  the  exercise  of  our  physical  pow- 
ers that  we  strengthen  them;  it  is  by  the  cultivation  and  the  exercise 
of  our  spirits  that  we  grow  in  spirituality,  that  we  grow  in  the  testi- 
mony of  the  gospel,  that  we  grow  in  ability  and  strength  to  accomplish 
the  purposes  of  our  Heavenly  Father  upon  the  earth. 

On  the  subject  of  tithing  I  heard  a  very  splendid  illustration  giv- 
en by  a  teacher  in  one  of  our  children's  classes:  She  brought  with 
her  ten  beautiful  red  apples.  She  explained  that  everything  we  have 
in  the  world  came  to  us  from  the  Lord,  and  she  said,  "Now,  if  I  give 
one  of  you  these  ten  apples,  will  you  give  me  one  of  them  back  again? 
Now,  any  one  of  you  children  that  will  do  that,  hold  up  your  hand." 

Of  course,  they  all  held  up  their  hands.   Then  she  said,  "That  is 


6 

Friday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


what  the  Lord  does  for  us.  He  gives  us  the  ten  apples,  but  he  requests 
that  we  return  one  to  him  to  show  our  appreciation  of  that  gift." 

The  trouble  with  some  people  is  that  when  they  get  the  ten  ap- 
ples, they  eat  up  nine  of  them,  and  then  they  cut  the  other  in  two  and 
give  the  Lord  half  of  what  is  left.  Some  of  them  cut  the  apple  in  two 
and  eat  up  one-half  of  it  and  then  hold  up  the  other  half  and  ask  the 
Lord  to  take  a  bite.  That  is  about  as  near  as  they  see  fit  to  share 
properly  and  show  their  gratitude  to  the  Lord. 

Our  children  often  feel  that  we  are  under  obligation  to  them  if 
they  learn  their  lessons  in  school;  they  feel  that  they  have  done  some- 
thing that  places  the  parents  under  obligation,  while,  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  they  have  done  something,  if  they  have  learned  their  lessons, 
that  for  all  time  will  be  of  benefit  to  them  individually.  Likewise,  a 
great  many  people  in  the  Church  act  as  though  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  or  the  presidency  of  the  stake,  or  the  bishopric  of  their  ward 
are  under  obligation  to  them  if  they  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom  or  if 
they  obey  the  law  delivered  to  us  regarding  tithing,  or  any  other  prin- 
ciple of  the  gospel.  They  feel  that  they  have  done  something  that 
places  the  Church,  or  the  authorities  of  the  Church  locally,  or  the 
General  Authorities,  under  obligation  to  them.  But  every  law  that  is 
given  to  us  in  the  Church  is  for  our  own  individual  benefit. 

Looking  After  Our  Youth 

I  wish  to  impress  upon  the  workers  in  all  the  organizations  of  the 
Church,  the  need  for  laboring  prayerfully,  untiringly,  and  diligently 
at  this  time  to  persuade  the  youth  of  Zion  to  be  more  faithful,  more 
diligent  in  all  their  obligations  and  responsibilities,  in  safeguarding 
their  virtue,  and  in  observing  what  is  known  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
I  feel  that  while  there  are  tens  of  thousands  of.  our  young  men  who 
are  doing  this,  there  may  also  be  some  who  in  order  to  be  counted  as 
hail-fellows-well-met,  may  be  tempted  to  become  careless  and  forget- 
ful. 

I  ask  our  young  people,  wherever  they  are  in  all  the  world,  to 
remember  well  all  of  their  principles  and  ideals,  under  all  conditions 
and  circumstances,  when  they  are  at  home,  and  when  they  are  away 
from  home. 

There  is  nothing  like  looking  after  people.  It  is  just  the  same 
in  the  gospel  as  it  is  in  business.  If  a  man  does  not  look  after  his  trade, 
it  is  sure  to  go  from  him.  We  must  look  after  the  people,  our  young 
people  and  all  others,  no  matter  where  they  may  go,  if  we  hope  to 
keep  them  in  the  line  of  their  duty. 

To  Our  Young  Men  in  the  Armed  Forces 

Our  hearts,  our  thoughts,  and  our  prayers  go  out  to  those  who 
are  in  the  armed  forces.  It  would  appear  from  all  the  figures  we  can 
gather,  that  more  than  one  hundred  thousand  of  our  young  men  are 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


in  the  services  of  their  country,  in  uniform.  We  pray  for  them  con- 
tinually. We  pray  for  the  preservation  of  their  lives  and  for  their 
faithfulness  to  those  things  which  are  dearer  than  life. 

We  say  to  you  again  to  be  clean,  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
God,  to  pray,  to  live  righteously;  and  if  you  do,  peace  and  understand- 
ing will  come  into  your  hearts,  and  our  Father  in  heaven  will  comfort 
you;  and  will  let  his  presence  be  felt  in  the  hour  of  your  need. 

Young  men  of  Zion,  when  you  return  to  your  homes,  return  with 
clean  hands  and  clean  hearts — and  great  will  be  your  happiness,  your 
faith,  and  your  testimony.  Your  brethren  and  your  loved  ones  cher- 
ish you,  pray  for  you,  and  await  the  day  of  your  coming. 

And  I  pray  with  all  my  heart  that  if  there  are  those  who  have 
made  mistakes,  that  they  will  repent;  and  by  this  we  may  know  that 
they  have  repented — that  they  will  confess  their  sins  -and  depart 
from  them. 

To  Those  Who  Are  in  Sorrow 

Into  many  of  our  homes  sorrow  has  come  since  last  conference. 
In  the  days  ahead  we  must  face  the  fact  that  more  homes  and  more 
families  will  be  broken  by  news  of  death  and  of  other  tragedies.  May 
the  peace  and  comfort  of  our  Father  in  heaven  bring  its  healing  in- 
fluence to  all  who  are  called  upon  to  mourn  and  to  bear  affliction.  And 
may  we  be  strengthened  with  the  understanding  that  being  blessed 
does  not  mean  that  we  shall  always  be  spared  all  the  disappointments 
and  difficulties  of  life.  We  all  have  them,  even  though  our  troubles 
differ.  I  have  not  had  the  same  kind  of  trials  that  others  have  had  to 
undergo,  yet  I  have  had  my  full  share.  When,  as  a  young  man,  I  lost 
my  wife  and  my  only  two  sons,  I  was  earnestly  trying  with  all  my 
heart  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  my  household  and 
I  were  observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  entitled  to  the  blessings 
of  life.  I  have  been  sorely  tried  and  tempted,  but  I  am  thankful  to 
say  that  the  trials  and  temptations  have  not  been  any  greater  than  I 
was  able  to  endure,  and  with  all  my  heart  I  hope  that  we  may  never 
have  anything  more  to  endure  than  we  will  be  blessed  of  the  Lord 
with  the  ability  to  withstand. 

And  may  we  always  remember,  because  it  is  both  true  and  com- 
forting, that  the  death  of  a  faithful  man  is  nothing  in  comparison  to 
the  loss  of  the  inspiration  of  the  good  spirit.  Eternal  life  is  the  great 
prize,  and  it  will  be  ours,  and  the  joy  of  our  Father  in  heaven  in  wel- 
coming us  will  be  great,  if  we  do  right;  and  there  is  nothing  so  great 
that  can  be  done  in  this  life  by  anyone,  as  to  do  right.  The  Lord  will 
hear  and  answer  the  prayers  we  offer  to  him  and  give  us  the  things  we 
pray  for  if  it  is  for  our  best  good.  He  never  will  and  never  has  for- 
saken those  who  serve  him  with  full  purpose  of  heart;  but  we  must 
always  be  prepared  to  say  "Father,  thy  will  be  done." 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  keep  you  who  are  away  from  home,  and 
bless  your  wives  and  your  children,  your  mothers  and  your  fathers. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


May  God  bless  and  preserve  the  Saints  and  the  righteous  every- 
where, in  all  nations,  in  the  far-off  islands,  and  in  lands  torn  by  war, 
as  well  as  here  among  us.  To  all  faithful,  we  extend  anew  the  hand 
of  fellowship,  and  hold  you  in  remembrance  before  God;  and  may  he 
accomplish  his  purposes,  overrule  in  the  affairs  of  nations,  hasten  the 
end  of  the  war  and  of  wickedness,  and  bring  peace  on  earth. 


I  plead  with  all  the  Saints  at  this  time,  as  all  my  predecessors  in 
the  presidency  of  the  Church  have  done,  to  be  honest,  truthful,  in- 
dustrious, and  thrifty;  to  get  out  of  debt  and  stay  out  of  debt;  to  pre- 
pare for  the  time  when  money  may  not  flow  as  freely  as  it  does  now. 

Even  now,  we  are  told  that  there  will  be  leaner  days  ahead — not- 
withstanding that  the  war  has  progressed  as  far  as  it  has.  Let  all  of 
us  who  can,  raise  what  we  can  of  our  own  food  and  sustenance.  Let 
all  of  us  be  industrious  and  useful  to  the  full  extent  of  our  strength 
and  ability.  We  are  told  to  earn  our  bread  by  the  sweat  of  the  brow. 
I  believe  there  may  be  a  disposition  on  the  part  of  some  Latter-day 
Saints  to  say,  "Well,  after  we  get  to  be  sixty-five  we  will  not  have  to 
work  any  more."  There  should  be  in  the  heart  of  every  man  and 
woman  ,the  cry,  "I  am  going  to  live  and  work.  There  is  nothing  given 
to  me  but  time  in  which  to  live,  and  I  am  going  to  endeavor  each  day 
of  my  life  to  do  some  labor  which  will  be  acceptable  in  the  sight  of  my 
Heavenly  Father,  and  if  it  is  possible,  do  a  little  better  today  than 
I  did  yesterday."  It  is  an  easy  thing  to  throw  a  dollar  to  a  man,  but 
it  requires  sympathy  and  a  heart  to  take  an  interest  in  him  and  try  to 
plan  for  his  welfare  and  benefit. 

And  it  is  a  principle  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  now,  as  it 
always  has  been,  to  help  every  man  to  help  himself — to  help  every 
child  of  our  Father  in  heaven  to  work  out  his  own  salvation,  both  tem- 
porally and  spiritually. 


I  pray  for  the  righteous  among  all  peoples.  I  ask  the  Lord  to 
bless  those  who  preside  in  the  nation;  in  the  states,  in  the  cities,  and  in 
the  counties.  I  pray  God  to  inspire  the  people  that  they  will  obey  his 
commandments  and  elect  good  men  to  positions  of  public  responsibil- 
ity, that  they  will  bury  their  political  differences,  their  personal  am- 
bitions, and  selfish  interests,  and  seek  for  good  men  to  hold  office. 

I  tell  you  it  is  the  duty  of  the  presidency  of  this  Church  to  ask  the 
people  to  do  anything  and  everything  that  the  inspiration  of  God  tells 
them  to  do,  and  you  need  have  no  fear  that  any  man  will  ever  stand 
at  the  head  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  unless  our  Heavenly  Father 
wants  him  to  be  there. 

Several  times  I  have  gone  to  meetings  in  the  old  Endowment 
House,  knowing  that  a  certain  matter  was  to  be  discussed,  and  my 


Work,  Thrift,  and  Integrity 


Responsibility  of  Leadership 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


mind  was  as  perfectly  set  upon  a  certain  position  on  that  question  as 
it  is  possible  for  a  man  to  have  his  mind  set,  and  I  believe  I  am  as  de- 
cided in  my  opinion  as  the  majority  of  people.  ( I  have  heard  it  said 
that  there  is  nobody  as  stubborn  as  a  Scotchman  except  a  Dutchman : 
and  I  am  Scotch  on  my  father's  side  and  Dutch  on  my  mother's. )  And 
although  I  have  gone  to  meetings  determined  in  favor  of  a  certain 
line  of  policy,  I  have  willingly  and  freely  voted  for  the  exact  opposite 
of  that  policy,  because  of  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  that  came  to  give 
direction.  And  upon  every  such  occasion  the  action  taken  was  vindi- 
cated and  proved  by  later  events  to  be  for  the  best  good  of  the  people. 

I  could  also  relate  circumstances  when  the  brethren  have  been 
sent  out  to  accomplish  certain  labors  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord 
when  they  thought  they  could  not  accomplish  those  labors.  They 
have  returned  and  been  able  to  bear  testimony  that  by  and  with  the 
help  of  the  Lord  they  had  been  able  to  accomplish  the  labor  placed 
upon  them. 

The  Lord  gives  to  many  of  us  the  still,  small  voice  of  revelation. 
It  comes  as  vividly  and  strongly  as  though  it  were  with  a  great  sound. 
It  comes  to  each  man,  according  to  his  needs  and  faithfulness,  for  guid- 
ance in  matters  that  pertain  to  his  own  life.  For  the  Church  as  a 
whole  it  comes  to  those  who  haye  been  ordained  to  speak  for  the 
Church  as  a  whole — and  I  say  to  you  again,  that  it  is  the  duty  of  the 
presidency  of  this  Church  to  ask  the  people  to  do  anything  and  every- 
thing that  the  inspiration  of  God  tells  them  to  do.  We  as  Latter-day 
Saints,  holding  the  priesthood  of  God,  should  magnify  it,  and  we 
should  respect  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church;  and  as  we  re- 
spect them,  God  will  respect  us. 

The  Path  of  Duty,  the  Path  of  Safety 

There  is  but  one  path  of  safety  for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  arid 
that  is  the  path  of  duty.  It  is  not  a  testimony  only;  it  is  not  marvelous 
manifestations;  it  is  not  knowing  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
true,  that  it  is  the  plan  of  salvation — it  is  not  actually  knowing  that 
the  Savior  is  the  Redeemer,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet, 
that  will  save  you  and  me;  but  it  is  the  keeping  of  the  commandments 
of  God,  living  the  life  of  a  Latter-day  Saint. 

I  pray  constantly  for  all  the  officers  of  this  Church,  whether  in 
the  priesthood  or  in  the  auxiliary  associations.  I  am  sure,  in  my  secret 
prayers  particularly,  that  I  never  forget,  morning  or  night,  those  that 
have  been  called  to  preside,  to  direct  the  affairs  in  the  priesthood 
quorums  and  in  the  auxiliary  associations.  My  prayer  is  that  each  of 
you  holding  a  place  of  responsibility  shall  so  order  your  lives  that  they 
shall  be  examples  of  diligence  and  energy  and  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Liv- 
ing God,  that  can  be  followed  in  every  part  by  those  over  whom  you 
preside. 

If  we  do  this,  what  a  wonderful  power  we  shall  have  with  the 
Lord  in  the  furtherance  of  his  mighty  purposes  in  the  earth.    If  we 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

keep  his  commandments,  our  influence  will  be  not  only  with  the  world, 
but  with  our  own  young  people.  Their  strength  and  power  will  be  mul- 
tiplied if  we  shall  succeed  in  having  them  feel  the  necessity  of  observ- 
ing the  commandments  of  God,  particularly  concerning  the  principles 
of  clean  and  righteous  living. 

I  say  to  all  Latter-day  Saints:  keep  the  commandments  of  God. 
That  is  my  keynote — just  these  few  words :  keep  the  commandments 
of  God! 

Closing  Testimony 

The  most  glorious  thing  that  has  ever  happened  in  the  history 
of  the  world  since  the  Savior  himself  lived  on  earth,  is  that  God  him- 
self saw  fit  to  visit  the  earth  with  his  beloved,  only  begotten  Son,  our 
Redeemer  and  Savior,  and  to  appear  to  the  boy  Joseph.  There  are 
thousands  and  hundreds  of  thousands  who  have  had  a  perfect  and  in- 
dividual testimony  and  knowledge  of  this  eternal  truth.  The  gospel 
in  its  purity  has  been  restored  to  the  earth,  and  I  want  to  emphasize 
that  we  as  a  people  have  one  supreme  thing  to  do,  and  this  is  to  call 
upon  the  world  to  repent  of  sin,  and  to  obey  the  commandments  of 
God.  And  it  is  our  duty  above  all  others  to  go  forth  at  home  and 
abroad,  as  times  and  circumstances  permit,  and  proclaim  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  our  duty  also  to  be  mindful  of  those 
children  of  our  Father  who  have  preceded  us  in  death  without  a 
knowledge  of  the  gospel,  and  to  open  the  door  of  salvation  to  them 
in  our  temples,  where  we  also  have  obligations  to  perform. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  I  do  know  that  God  lives,  that  he  hears 
and  answers  prayer;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living 
God;  and  that  Brigham  Young  and  those  who  have  succeeded  him 
were,  and  are,  likewise  prophets  of  God. 

I  do  not  have  the  language  at  my  command  to  express  the  grati- 
tude to  God  for  this  knowledge  that  I  possess.  Time  and  time  again 
my  heart  has  been  melted,  my  eyes  have  wept  tears  of  gratitude  for 
the  knowledge  that  he  lives  and  that  this  gospel  called  Mormonism 
is  in  very  deed  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  that  it  is  in  very  deed  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  That  God  may  help  you  and  me  and 
everyone  to  live  it,  and  that  he  may  help  those  who  know  not  the 
truth,  that  they  may  receive  this  witness,  is  my  constant  and  earnest 
prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Clark: 

We  have  just  heard  a  message  from  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  read  by 
Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  conference. 

President  Grant:  The  people  are  again  built  up  and  enheart- 
ened  by  your  great  faith,  your  living  testimony,  your  ripened  wisdom, 
by  your  words  of  encouragement  and  admonition,  by  your  example 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  1 1 


of  righteousness  and  of  humility,  by  your  charity,  and  your  love  for 
the  people  and  for  the  great  cause  of  building  up  the  Kingdom  of  God. 
We  thank  our  Heavenly  Father  for  the  inspiration  which  he  has 
made  your  companion  and  for  the  revelations  of  his  mind  and  will 
which  day  by  day  he  has  sent  and  is  sending  to  you.  May  your 
lengthening  years  continue  to  be  filled  by  his  comfort  and  by  the 
peace  which  the  Lord  alone  can  give. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  A 
Prophet,  (Song  Folder  No.  8,  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  298,  Hymn  Book 
No,  152). 

President  Clark: 

President  David  O.  McKay  of  the  First  Presidency  will  now 
present  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church  for  your 
sustaining  vote.  We  suggest  that  all  members  of  the  Church  listen- 
ing in  participate  in  the  vote,  thus  witnessing  to  the  Lord  by  their  up- 
lifted hands,  as  do  we  who  are  present  here,  that  they  will  uphold 
and  be  completely  loyal  to  those  bearing  the  holy  priesthood  of  God, 
whom  he  has  chosen  to  lead,  guide,  and  direct  his  Church  on  earth. 

President  McKay: 

Before  presenting  the  General  Authorities  and  General  Officers 
of  the  Church,  we  submit  to  you  the  following : 

It  is  proposed  that  we  honorably  release  Sister  Amy  Brown  Ly- 
man as  general  president  of  the  National  Woman's  Relief  Society  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  with  Sister  Marcia 
'  K.  Howells,  her  first  counselor,  and  Sister  Belle  S.  Spaf f ord,  her  sec- 
ond counselor,  and  all  the  officers  and  members  of  the  Relief  Society 
general  board,  with  our  appreciation  of  the  excellent  service  they  have 
rendered,  and  commendation  for  their  faithfulness  to  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.   All  who  favor  this  proposition  please  manifest  it. 

(the  vote  was  unanimous) 

President  McKay  then  presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference 
the  General  Authorities,  General  Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Of- 
ficers of  the  Church,  and  they  were  unanimously  sustained  by  those 
present,  as  follows: 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

First  Presidency 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Day 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
George  Albert  Smith 

Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

George  Albert  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

George  F.  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Harold  B.  Lee 

Stephen  L.  Richards  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Mark  E.  Petersen 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Joseph  F.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Marion  G.  Romney  Clifford  E.  Young 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Alma  Sonne 

Nicholas  G.  Smith 

Trustee-in-Trust 
Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Richard  L.  Evans 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Oscar  A.  Kirkman 

John  H.  Taylor  Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Milton  R..  Hunter 

Presiding  Bishopric 


LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop. 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  1 3 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant. 

Church  Board  of  Education 

Heber  J.  Grant  Adam  S.  Bennion 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

David  O.  McKay  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  L.  West 

Stephen  L.  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 
John  A.  Widtsoe 

Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer. 

Commissioner  of  Education 
Franklin  L.  West 

Seminary  Supervisors 

M.  Lynn  Bennion 
•      "  J.  Karl  Wood 

Auditing  and  Finance  Committee 

Qrval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor, 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner  Frank  W.  Asper 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Nicholas  G.  Smith 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Harold  B.  Lee  John  H.  Taylor 

Marion  G.  Romney  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Thomas  E.  McKay  LeGrand  Richards 

Clifford  E.  Young  Marvin  O.  Ashton 

Alma  Sonne  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Day 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
Mark  Austin  Sterling  H.  Nelson 

William  E.  Ryberg  Stringham  A.  Stevens 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  Howard  Barker 

Roscoe  W.  Eardley  Ezra  C.  Knowlton 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

National  Woman's  Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Gertrude  Ryberg  Garff,  Second  Counselor 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

Milton  Bennion,  General  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
A  Hamer  Reiser,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  First  Counselor 
Lucy  T.  Andersen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 

Primary  Association 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  President 
LaVern  W.  Parmley,  First  Counselor 
Dessie  G.  Boyle,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted 


REPORT  OF  CHANGES 


15 


President  McKay: 

The  voting  in  each  case  has  been  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 

Brother  Milton  R.  Hunter,  will  you  please  come  to  the  rostrum. 
Brother  Seymour  Dilworth  Young  is  on  his  way  from  Ogden.  He 
probably  heard  this  assignment  if  he  had  his  radio  on  in  his  car.  If 
so,  that  would  he  his  first  intimation  of  his  call  to  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy. 

President  Clark: 

Thus  the  Lord  calleth  men  to  His  service. 

Elder  Joseph  Andersen,  Clerk  of  the  Conference  read  the  follow- 
ing report  of  changes,  statistical  data,  and  obituaries: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD,  AND 
BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST  OCTOBER 
CONFERENCE — 1 944 

New  Mission  Presidents: 

Dr.  Thomas  D.  Rees  appointed  to  succeed  Elvon  W.  Orme  as 
president  of  the  Australian  Mission. 

Richard  W.  Madsen,  Jr.,  appointed  to  succeed  Elbert  R.  Curtis 
as  president  of  the  Western  States  Mission. 

Harold  M.  Rex  appointed  to  succeed  W.  W.  Seegmiller  as  pres- 
ident of  the  Brazilian  Mission. 

James  H.  Riley  appointed  to  succeed  William  L.  Warner  as 
president  of  the  Texas  Mission. 

Joseph  Y.  Card  appointed  to  succeed  Walter  Miller  as  presi- 
dent of  the  Western  Canadian  Mission. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen : 

Henry  H.  Rawlings  chosen  president  of  the  Franklin  Stake  to 
succeed  Leslie  V.  Merrill. 

Elmo  S.  Sorensen  chosen  president  of  the  Gunnison  Stake  to 
succeed  Charles  S.  Hansen. 

Abel  S.  Rich  chosen  president  of  the  South  Box  Elder  Stake. 

John  P.  Lillywhite  chosen  president  of  the  North  Box  Elder 
Stake. 

Stephen  E.  Busath  chosen  president  of  the  Sacramento  Stake  to 
succeed  I.  Homer  Smith. 

John  Howard  Shawcroft  chosen  president  of  the  San  Luis  Stake 
to  succeed  John  B.  Reed. 

William  C.  Stolworthy  chosen  president  of  the  Young  Stake  to 
succeed  Roy  B.  Burnham. 

Frank  C.  Simmons  chosen  president  of  the  Weber  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed James  H.  Riley. 

Henry  Golden  Tempest  chosen  president  of  the  East  Jordan 
Stake  to  succeed  Heber  J.  Burgon,  • 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Dale  H.  Petersen  chosen  president  of  the  North  Sevier  Stake 
to  succeed  Edwin  Sorenson. 

Monte  L.  Bean  chosen  president  of  the  Seattle  Stake  to  succeed 
Alexander  Brown. 

Lawrence  T.  Dahl  chosen  president  of  the  West  Jordan  Stake 
to  succeed  Vernal  C.  Webb. 

New  Stake  Organized: 

North  Box  Elder  Stake  organized  November  12,  1944,  by  a 
division  of  the  Box  Elder  Stake,  and  consists  of  the  Bear  River,  Brig- 
ham  City  3rd,  Brigham  City  4th,  Corinne,  Harper,  Honeyville  Wards 
and  Evans  Branch. 

South  Box  Elder  Stake  organized  November  12,  1944,  by  a  di- 
vision of  the  Box  Elder  Stake,  and  consists  of  the  Brigham  City  1st, 
Brigham  City  2nd,  Brigham  City  5th,  Brigham  City  6th,  Mantua, 
Perry  and  Willard  Wards. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Monument  Park  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  the  Yalecrest  Ward. 

Pocatello  13th  Ward,  Pocatello  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
the  Pocatello  4th  and  Pocatello  8th  Wards. 

Sugar  Ward,  Rexburg  Stake,  formed  by  combining  the  Sugar 
1st  and  Sugar  2nd  Wards. 

Laurelcrest  Ward,  Sugar  House  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
the  Mountain  View  Ward. 

Geneva  Ward,  Sharon  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the  Timp- 
anogos  Ward. 

Vermont  Ward,  Sharon  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Sharon  Ward. 

Vernal  3rd  Ward,  Uintah  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Vernal  1st  and  Vernal  2nd  Wards. 

Wards  Disorganized: 

Sugar  1st  Ward,  Rexburg  Stake — membership  annexed  to  Sug- 
ar Ward. 

Sugar  2nd  Ward,  Rexburg  Stake— membership  annexed  to  Sug- 
ar Ward.  . 

Grant  Ward,  Portneuf  Stake— membership  annexed  to  Downey 


Ward. 


Independent  Branches  Organized: 

Fontana  Branch,  San  Bernardino  Stake. 
Birdseye  Branch,  Palmyra*  Stake. 


STATISTICS 


17 


Independent  Branches  Made  Wards 

Lark  Ward,  West  Jordan  Stake,  formerly  Lark  Branch. 
•    Lajolla  Ward,  San  Diego  Stake,  formerly  La Jolla  Branch. 

Branch  Transferred: 

Thistle  Branch,  Kolob  Stake,  transferred  to  Palmyra  Stake. 

Independent  Branches  Disorganized: 

Strawberry  Branch,  Duchesne  Stake. 
Romedell  Branch,  Blaine  Stake. 

General  Authorities  Who  Have  Passed  Away : 

Elder  Rufus  K.  Hardy  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  died 
March  7,  1945. 

Elder  Samuel  O.  Bennion  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  died 
March  8,  1945. 

Others: 

Elder  Stephen  L.  Chipman,  president  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple, 
died  March  31,  1945. 

William  H.  Richards,  former  president  of  the  Malad  Stake,  died 
April  2,  1945. 


STATISTICS 


Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion  148 
Number  of  Wards  1,150 
Number  of  Independent  Branches  128 


Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches  1 ,273 

Number  of  Missions  39 

Church  Membership: 

Stakes  792,362 

Missions  161,642 


Total  954,004 

Church  Growth: 

Children  blessed  in  stakes  and  missions  27,522 

Children  baptized  in  stakes  and  missions  '  16,511 

Converts  baptized  in  stakes  and  missions  5,493 

Social  Statistics: 

Birth  rate  per  thousand                                          ,  36.2 
Marriage  rate  per  thousand  13.6 
Death  rate  per  thousand,  including  those  re- 
ported killed  or  missing  in  military  service  6.4 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6 

Missionaries : 

Number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the 
Church 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the 
Stakes 

Total  missionaries 
Number  of  missionaries  who  received  train- 
ing in  the  mission  home  during  1 944 
Service  men  from  stakes  reported  killed  and  miss- 
ing in  military  action 


First  Day 

478 
2,947 
3,425 
386 
986 


Church  Disbursements,  1944 

The  following  annual  financial  report  covering  all  disbursements 
of  the  Church  for  1944  and  summarizing  the  Church  Welfare  Program 
for  the  same  year,  was  read  by  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

Part  1 — CHURCH  BUDGET  CASH  EXPENDITURES  FROM  GENERAL 
CHURCH  FUNDS  BOTH  TITHING  AND  NON-TITHING  INCOMES 


Total  Cash  Budget  Appropriations  for  1944 


...$5,326,239.00 


Budget  Ap- 
propriation 
for  1944 

Office  of  the  Corporation  of  the  President: 
Including  salaries  of  49  employes;  ex- 
penses of  office;  equipment;  maintenance 
of  the  Administration  Building;  and  the 
living  allowances  and  traveling  ex- 
penses of  the  General  Authorities,  all 
of  which  are  covered  by  non-tithing 
income   $ 

Office  of  the  Corporation  of  the  Presiding 
Bishop: 

Including  the  salaries  of  173  employes; 
office  expenses  and  equipment;  main- 
tenance of  Bishop's  Building;  expenses 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  program; 
traveling  expenses  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric;  taxes;  special  printing;  and 
maintenance  of  the  Purchasing  Depart- 
ment and  Motor  Avenue  supply  store- 
house, all  of  which  are  covered  by  non- 
tithing  income   

Temples: 

For  the  operating  expenses,  including 
salaries  of  226  employes,  and  building 
maintenance,  repairs  and  renovating  of 
the  Alberta,  Arizona,  Hawaiian,  Idaho 
Falls,  Logan,  Manti,  St.  George,  and 
Salt  Lake  Temples    319,644.00 


Budget  Ex- 
penditures 
for  1944 


1944  Expend- 
itures Under 
or  in  Excess  of 
Appropriation 


310,500.00  $  274,722.00  $  35,778.00 


153,950.00     164,998.00  11,048.00 


285,991.00  33,653.00 


FINANCIAL  REPORT  19 

1944  Expend- 

Budget  Ap-       Budget  Ex-    itures  Under 
propriation         penditures    or  in  Excess  of 
for  1944  for  1944  Appropriation 

Missions  and  Missionary  Work: 

For  the  maintenance  and  operating 
expenses  of  the  20  missions  in  the 
United  States,  Canada,  Mexico,  Ha- 
waiian Islands,  and  South  America;  liv- 
ing and  traveling  expenses  of  the  mis- 
sion presidents;  return  fares  of  mission- 
aries; free  literature;  servicemen's  wel- 
fare; the  erection,  purchase,  remodel- 
ing, maintenance  and  renting  of  build- 
ings; the  expenses  of  the  Bureaus  of 
information  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  Carthage  Jail  (Illinois), 
Cumorah  (Palmyra),  and  Joseph  Smith 
Farm  (South  Royalton,  Vermont),  and 

the  mission  home  in  Salt  Lake  City   744,500.00     624,176.00  120,324.00 

Stake  and  Ward  Expenses: 
Allowances  to  148  stakes  and  1,278 
wards  and  independent  branches,  in- 
cluding the  maintenance  of  115  stake 
and  1,286  ward  and  branch  buildings; 
expenses  and  mileage  allowances  to 
stake  presidents  and  bishops;  furnish- 
ings for  stake  and  ward  offices;  stake 
and  ward  taxes;  and  stake  and  ward 

printing    1,014,500.00  1,069,519.00  55,019.00 

Church  Welfare: 

For  the  purchase  of  canning  and  other 
equipment  and  commodity  purchases: 
for  the  operating  expenses  of  General 
Committee  storehouses,  the  Deseret  In- 
dustries and  the  Deseret  Clothing  Fac- 
tory; for  land  and  building  purchases 
and  General  Committee  administrative 
expenses.  This  sum  accounts  tor  bud- 
get expenditures  only,  total  welfare  ex- 
penditures to  follow  in  detail   392,100.00     285,949.00  106,151.00 

Church  Schools: 

For  the  operating  expenses  of  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University,  Ricks  College, 
Juarez  Stake  Academy,  12  institutes 
and  99  seminaries;  for  the  operating  ex- 
penses of  the  Department  of  Education, 
including  the  salaries  of  '  355  teachers 
and  8  administrative  officers  and  office 
employes;  and  for  maintenance,  repairs, 

and  improvements  to  buildings    907,320.00     857,098.00  50,222.00 

Educational  Institutions  (other  than 
Church  Schools,  Institutes  and  Semi' 
naries) : 

Consisting  of  the  McCune  School  of 
Music  and  Art;  Lund  Home  for  Boys, 
Deseret  Gymnasium,  Society  for  the 
Aid  of  the  Sightless,  and  the  General 

Music  Committee   51,200.00      46,843.00  4,357.00 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

1944  Expend- 

Budget  Ap-       Budget  Ex-      itures  Under 
propriation         penditures     or  in  Excess  of 
for  1944  for  1944  Appropriation 

Building  Operations: 

For  the  maintenance  of  the  buildings 
and  grounds,  Temple  Block;  for  the 
maintenance  of  other  Church  properties 
situated  immediately  adjacent  to  the 
Temple  Block;  for  repairs  and  renova- 
tion of  ward  buildings;  and  $109,322.00 
for  the  construction  of  hospital  build- 
ings   1,033,908.00    758,057.00  275,851.00 

Historic  Monuments  and  Properties: 
For  the  repair  and  maintenance  of  prop- 
erties at  Palmyra,  New  York;  South 
Royalton,  Vermont;  the  Carthage  Jail; 

and  memorial  cemeteries    15,257.00       16,272.00  1,015.00 

Indian  Projects: 

In  the  Papago  and  Washaki  Wards. 
There  is  to  be  credited  against  this 
deficit  the  returns  from  sale  of  1944 
crops,  which  will  amount  to  more  than 

the  deficit    5,000.00      20,299.00  15,299.00 

Church  Committee  on  Radio  and  Public- 
ity: 

For  publicity  and  mission  literature   24,644.00       11,163.00  13,481.00 

Genealogical  Society  o[  Utah  and  Index 
Bureau : 

For  the  maintenance  of  the  Church 
Genealogical  Library,  Record  Archives, 
Temple  Index  Bureau  and  allied  de- 
partments, and  for  the  recording,  index- 
ing, photographing  and  filing  of  gen- 
ealogical and  temple  ordinance  data, 
including  the  records  of  114,212  fami- 
lies forwarded  to  the  8  temples  for  bap- 
tisms, endowments  and  sealings;  also 
for  the  salaries  of  124  full-time  em- 
ployes  :..      151,016.00     165,908.00  14,892.00 

(Deficit  due  to  delay  in  receiving  funds  in  1943  which,  if  paid  and  charged  in 
that  year,  would  have  resulted  in  a  budget  credit  balance  of  $665.00  at  the  close 
of  1944). 
Other  Expenses: 

Consisting  of  contributions  to  civic 
organizations,  such  as  the  Red  Cross, 
Community  Chest,  State  University, 
etc.;  salaries  of  tabernacle  choir  con- 
ductors and  organists;  taxes,  legal  ex- 
penses; contributions  to  hospitals,  wel- 
fare assistance  by  the  general  Church 
office;  public  liabilitty  and  other  in- 
surance, etc   202,700.00     163,283.00  39,417.00 

Total  Budget  and  Expenditures:   $  5,326,239.00  $4,744,278.00  $  581,961.00 

All  unexpended  balances  revert  back  into  the  unappropriated  funds  of  the 
Church. 


FINANCIAL  REPORT 


21 


Part  II— NON-BUDGET  AND  NON-TITHING  EXPENDITURES  FROM 
CONTRIBUTIONS  BY  THE  MEMBERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 
FOR  THE  YEAR  1944 


The  expenditures  budgeted  from  general  Church  funds  and  paid 
principally  from  the  tithes  are  detailed  above.  The  following 
expenditures  were  made  from  further  contributions  my  mem- 
bers of  the  Church: 

Paid  for  stake  and  ward  building  purposes   $  526,047.00 

Expended  for  stake,  ward,  and  mission  maintenance  purposes, 

expenses  of  auxiliary  organizations,  and  for  recreation    1,542,920.00 

Expended  from  ward  and  mission  fast  offerings   497,304.00 

Expended  from  welfare  contributions    283,357.00 

Assistance  rendered  to  missionaries   _   31,679.00 

Expended  from  General  Board  dues  and  children's  contributions 

to  the  Primary  Hospital    128,615.00 

Expended  by  Church  schools,  in  addition  to  amount  listed  under 
budget  expenditures,  from  funds  derived  from  tuitions  and 

other  sources   386,180.00 

Disbursed  by  the  Relief  Society  for  direct  assistance  and  for  gen- 
eral welfare  purposes  and  health  work  .  .'.  .-.   92,115.00 


Total  non-budget  cash  expenditures  1944,  from  contributions, 

other  than  tithing,  donated  by  the  Church  membership    $  3,488,235.00 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick  in  addifion 

to  the  amount  paid  from  the  tithes  and  included  in  Part  I   38,140.00 

Total  budget  cash  expenditures  by   general  Church  offices 

brought  forward  from  above    4,744,278.00 


Total  cash  expenditures,  budget  and  non-budget,   of  the 

Church  for  1944    $  8,270,653.00 


Part  III— THE  CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM 


Fast  Offering  Data: 

Number  of  Church  members  who  paid  voluntary  fast  offerings 
and  welfare  contributions:  ( 

In  the  Wards    193,031 

In  the  Missions    28,153 

Total    221,184 

Per  cent  of  Church  membership  who  paid  fast  offerings    29.6% 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  wards   80c 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  missions  (based  on  mem- 
bership of  missions  reporting)    38c 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita — wards  and  missions    74c 

Amount  of  voluntary  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions: 
In  the  wards: 

Fast  Offerings    $  523,700.00 

Welfare  Contributions   305,303.00 

In  the  Missions: 

Fast  Offerings   43,189.00 

Total  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions    $  872,192.00 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Day 

Welfare  Program  Cash  Expenditures: 

Expended  from  ward  and  mission  fast  offerings  and  welfare  con- 
tributions for  the  care  of  the  needy,  consisting  of  food,  clothing, 
rents,  light,  heat,  hospitalization,  burials,  etc.,  and  for  the  opera- 
tion of  bishops'  and  regional  storehouses  and  the  purchase  of 

commodities  for  storehouses    780,661.00 

Disbursed  by  the  Relief  Society  for  direct  assistance  and  for 

general  welfare  purposes  and  health  work    92,115.00 

Disbursed  by  the  General  Welfare  Committee  for  direct  assist- 
ance and  welfare  purposes  and  for  the  overhead  expenses  of 

the  General  Committee    73,549.00 

Disbursed  by  the  office  of  the  General  Authorities  for  direct  as- 
sistance  ,   24,933.00 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick   38,140.00 


Total  relief  cash  expenditures  for  the  year,  all  included  in 
above  grand  total  of  budget  and  non-budget  cash  expendi- 
tures   $  1,009,398.00 

This  is  an  increase  over  the  year  1943  of   88,014.00 

Total  amount  of  Relief  Society  wheat  stored  in  Church  elevators 
December  31,  1944  (bushels)    315,135 

In  addition  to  the  cash  expenditure  of  $1,009,398.00  for  welfare 
purposes,  the  General  Church  Welfare  Committee  makes  the 
following  further  financial  report,  with  a  statement  indicating 
the  production  and  distribution  of  commodities  for  bishops' 
storehouses  and  inventory  of  commodities  December  31,  1944: 


Summary  of  the  Annual  Report  of  the  Church  Welfare  Plan: 

December  31,  1944 
FINANCIAL  REPORT 


Present  Net  Cash  Value: 

Current  Assets  (Net)    $  658,265.88 

Inventories  (Principally  Commodities)    584,062.30 

Fixed  Assets  (Land,  Buildings,  etc.)    1,522,172.54 


TOTAL    $  2,764,500.72 


Fixed  Assets  Include: 

Deseret  Industries,  Deseret  Mills  and  Elevators,  Deseret  Clothing  Factory,  Emery 
Ccjal  Mine. 

Ninety-five  bishops'  storehouses  having  a  total  floor  area  of  381,392  square  feet. 
This  is  fifty  times  the  area  covered  by  the  Assembly  Hall;  ten  times  the  area  cov- 
ered by  the  Tabernacle;  and  nine-tenths  the  area  of  the  whole  Temple  Block. 
There  are  sixty-seven  canneries  included  in  the  bishops'  storehouses. 

Farms,  ranches,  dairies,  and  other  regional  and  stake  properties,  made  up  of  3,453 
acres  of  land,  together  with  buildings,  improvements,  equipment,  and  livestock. 

The  Fixed  Assets  Were  Acquired  With: 

$    564,480.69  Cash  from  general  Church  funds,  through  the  General  Committee. 
688,279.33  Cash  from  wards,  stakes,  regions,  and  Priesthood  quorums. 
269,412.52  Donations,  Labor  and  Property. 


$  1,522,172.54 


FINANCIAL  REPORT  23 

The  Fixed  Assets  Consist  of: 

$    325,445.77  Land. 
941,326.64  Buildings 
189,329.85  Equipment. 

41,446.28  Furniture  and  Fixtures. 

24,624.00  Livestock. 


$  1,522,172.54 


Production,  Distribution,  Inventory,  and  Burget  Assignment  o[  Commodities  Con- 
nected with  Bishops'  Storehouses. 


Items 

Unit 

1944  Pro- 
luction 

1944  Distri- 
bution 

Inventory 

December  1945  Budget 
31,  1944  Assignment 

v->dimeu      irroauce      ^  iviuk, 
Vegetables,  Fruits, 
Jams  and  Spreads)   

quarts 

646,381 

485,338 

1,494,854 

1,282,639 

Animal    Products     ( Butter, 

pounds 

346,114 

440,785 

80,726 

701,636 

Vegetables,  Fruits  and  Sug- 
ar (Not  Canned)   

pounds 

2,300,530 

2,226,250 

848,954 

2,024,300 

Grains    (and   Grain  Prod- 
ucts)   

bushels 

36,240 

16,400 

52,753 

87,940 

Other  Foods    (49  Different 
Items)   

pounds 

50,324 

25,919 

63,993 

52,383 

Various  Drugs  and  House- 
hold Supplies  and  Soaps.. 

items 

94,494 

110,055 

98,745 

79,700 

Hay  

tons 

332 

790 

1,283 

270 

Cotton   

500  lb.  bales  12 

47 

38 

25 

Seeds     and  Miscellaneous 

pounds 

7,000 

13,000 

714 

7,500 

Fuel  (Mostly  Coal) 

tons 

438 

1,339 

1,161 

500 

Clothing  •  and    Dry  Goods 
(329  Different  Items) 

articles 

89,069 

59,117 

119,208 

112,738 

Furniture   

articles 

50 

142 

246 

500 

When  the  inventories  and  the  1945  budget  assignments  in  the  foregoing  tabula- 
tion are  compared  with  1944  distribution,  it  is  apparent  that  a  surplus  is  being  built 
in  some  non-perishable  foodstuffs.  To  protect  this  surplus,  distribution  of  food- 
stuffs, in  so  far  as  possible,  is  first  made  from  the  oldest  stocks,  which  are  from  the 
1942  pack.  Most  of  the  inventories  are  made  up  from  1943  and  1944  production. 

Unavoidably  there  is  some  spoilage  in  the  program,  but  expert  investigation 
shows  it  is  now  not  more,  in  the  canning  of  fruits  and  vegetables,  than  occurs  in 
commercial  businesses  handling  similar  items;  nor  is  it  greater  with  fresh  fruits  and 
vegetables,  handled  as  such,  taking  into  consideration  the  condition  and  grades  of 
the  product  when  received.  ; 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

Activities  of  the  Program  During  1944,  Canning  and  Processing  {or  Storehouse 
Program : 

Vegetables,  Fruits,  Jams,  and  Spreads    494,264  quarts     (697,554  cans) 

Meat,  Fish,  and  Fowl    18,749  pounds    (  21,273  cans) 

Milk,  Canned  (Each  Can  Equivalent  to  One 

Quart  of  Fresh  Milk)    143,856  cans 

Miscellaneous  Foods  (Spices,  Flavoring,  etc)  ..  13,980  pounds 

Flour,  Cereals,  and  Livestock  Feeds    251,097  pounds 

Group  Canning: 

The  following  canning  was  done  at  Welfare  canneries  for  their  own  use  by  540- 
groups,  consisting  of  45,615  people: 

Fruits  and  Vegetables                                      652,659  quarts  (893,053  cans) 

Meat  and  Fish                                                 15,756  pounds  (  23,143  cans) 

(916,196  cans) 

Field  Activities: 

Field  activities  carried  on  in  the  production  of  the  1944  Welfare  Budget  in- 
clude 1,217  crop  projects,  cultivating  2,729  acres  of  land;  361  livestock  projects, 
which  produced  754  head  of  livestock,  2,641  chickens,  1,907  rabbits,  and  170  stands 
of  bees. 

In  addition  to  the  work  done  on  these  projects,  17,220  man  days  of  donated 
work  were  done  in  the  storehouse  and  processing  plants. 

For  the  purposes  other  than  the  production  of  the  budget  for  the  bishops' 
storehouse  program,  there  were  326  crop  projects,  11  livestock  projects  and  32 
manufacturing  projects  operated  during  1944.  These  projects  utilized  440  acres 
of  land. 


Assistance  Rendered: 

Each  year  since  1938  there  have  been  from  17,913  to  55,460  persons  receive 
temporary  assistance  as  to  food,  shelter,  fuel,  or  clothing,  through  the  bishops'  store- 
house program.  In  1944  there  were  27,164  persons  so  assisted.  The  Church  has 
relieved  the  government  of  that  much  load. 

In  addition  to  this,  there  were,  during  this  period  (1938-1945)  more  than  851 
distressed  families  that  have  been  made  entirely  self-supporting;  6,041  persons  have 
been  assisted  towards  a  permanent  betterment  in  other  ways,  such  as  contributions 
to  prevent  business  failures  and  mortgage  foreclosures,  to  build  or  remodel  homes, 
to  aid  families  suffering  from  sickness  or  infirmities,  to  help  needy  farmers  get 
equipment  and  to  plant  and  harvest  crops,  to  aid  families  to  get  necessary  furniture 
for  homes,  and  for  many  other  like  purposes;  and  1,611  construction  projects  (shel- 
ter and  housing)  have  been  completed  in  addition  to  the  construction  of  the  bishops' 
storehouse  program. 

Persons  Taken  From  Government  Relief  Rolls: 

During  1944,  173  males  and  319  females  (total  492)  have  been  removed  from 
government  relief  rolls.  Of  this  number  139  have  been  rehabilitated  and  are  receiv- 
ing no  aid  from  the  Church  or  from  the  governmentt;  249  are  receiving  part  of  their 
support  from  the  Church;  and  104  are  receiving  all  their  needs  from  the  Church. 
Of  those  receiving  aid  from  the  Church,  78  are  working  on  Welfare  projects,  and 
only  96  are  entirely  unemployed.  Since  January  1,  1943,  707  persons  have  been 
removed  from  government  relief  rolls. 


PRESIDENT  }.  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R.  25 


President  Clark: 

The  primary  purpose  of  the  welfare  plan  has  always  been  the 
supplying  of  food  and  clothing,  shelter  and  fuel.  There  seems  to  be 
a  great  deal  of  uncertainty  today  as  to  what  the  real  food  situation 
of  the  country  is.  Some  tell  us  we  are  faced  with  the  greatest  surplus 
that  has  ever  existed  in  the  history  of  the  country.  Others  tell  us 
that  the  food  supply  is  short  and  that  we  should  raise  all  we  can. 

Under  these  circumstances  the  only  safe  thing  is  to  assume  a 
food  shortage  and  proceed  accordingly.  I  therefore  urge  you  breth- 
ren to  urge  your  wards  and  stakes  to  fill  their  quotas  in  order  that  we 
may  be  prepared  should  the  predicted  shortage  occur. 

A  Whispering  Campaign  Against  the  Welfare  Plan 

Reports  come  to  us  that  some  persons,  we  hope  not  many,  are 
carrying  on  what  politicians  call  a  "whispering  campaign"  against 
the  welfare  plan,  proclaiming  it  a  failure.  At  least  some  of  these 
whisperers  seem  to. have  been  against  the  plan  from  the  first,  profes- 
sing to  see  in  it  some  deep-laid  political  scheme. 

I  am  sure  you  will  let  me  say  now,  and  I  was  with  the  brethren 
when  the  plan  was  first  worked  out,  that  there  was  not  then,  there  has 
not  been  since,  and  there  is  not  npw,  any  political  purpose  or  end 
whatsoever  in  the  plan.  Those  who  proclaim  the  contrary  are  either 
wholly  ignorant  or  completely  misinformed. 

The  report  I  have  read  is  a  full  demonstration  that  the  plan  is 
not  a  failure.  Of  course,  if  the  people  will  not  support  it,  so  that  the 
Lord  withdraws  his  blessings  from  it, 'the  plan  will  fall,  but  to  this  time 
the  great  loyal  body  of  the  Church,  following  the  inspirattion  of  the 
Lord,  has  supported  the  plan  which  has  had  a  truly  marvelous  growth 
both  in  extent  and  in  efficiency.  All  of  us  thank  the  brethren  and 
sisters  who  have  had  immediate  charge  of  the  building  up  and  opera- 
tion of  the  plan,  and  sincerely  congratulate  them  upon  the  outstanding 
success  which  has  attended  their  work. 

The  general  committee,  composed  in  large  part  of  business  and 
professional  men,  have  given  unstintedly  of  their  time  and  effort  with- 
out any  monetary  compensation  whatsoever,  in  a  service  which  has 
brought  needed  aid  and  succor  to  tens  of  thousands  who>  needed  help. 
The  Lord  has  blessed  and  will  continue  to  bless  them  in  their  labor 
and  lives.  To  the  sisters  of  the  general  board  of  the  "Relief  Society, 
and  to  the  Relief  Society  workers  throughout  the  Church,  we  offer 
our  especial  thanks'  and  gratitude  for  their  great  service,  without 
which  we  should  have  been  almost  helpless. 

You  will  remember  that  back  in  the  early  days  of  the  Church,  it 
took  the  people  in  Missouri  approximately  three  years   and  four 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  ■  First  Day 

months  to  forfeit  the  blessings  of  the  United  Order.  If  you  will  read 
the  revelations  and  the  history  of  the  time,  you  will  find  that  it  was 
the  greed,  rapacity,  idleness,  and  covetousness  of  the  people  that 
caused  the  Lord  to  withdraw  the  principle  from  their  midst.  After 
they  reached  Nauvoo,  the  Prophet  forbade  our  people  then  in  Iowa 
to  attempt  to  set  it  up  there. 

The  welfare  plan,  which  I  once  more  repeat  is  not  the  United 
Order  but  is  motivated  by  the  same  lofty  and  divine  principles  and 
purposes  that  underlay  the  Order,  has  now  been  in  operation  nine 
years.  Through  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  and  the  faithfulness  of  the 
people,  it  has  steadily  grown  and  expanded  its  activities  during  the 
whole  period;  and  it  stands  today  stronger  than  ever  before  in  its 
operation. 

Its  opponents  have  not  destroyed  and  cannot  destroy  it,  so  long 
as  the  Lord  blesses  it  and  faithful  members  support  it. 

Aid  of  All  Church  Members  Needed 
I  might  add  another  word: 

To  those  opponents  who  are  Church  members,  I  wish  earnestly 
to  say:  We  need  you  now;  we  have  needed  you  in  the  past;  we  would 
welcome  you  amongst  us.  Furthermore,  we  wish  to  say  that  if  you 
desire  or  hope  to  keep  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  enjoy  his  blessings, 
you  must  cease  your  fault-finding  and  sometimes  even  your  maligning 
of  those  doing  their  appointed  tasks  as  servants  of  the  Lord,  and  fall 
in  and  work  with  them,  not  against  them.  We  need  the  aid  of  every 
member  of  the  Church;  we  ask  ypur  help,  but  not  so  much  on  our  ac- 
count as  on  yours.  This  is  a  plea  directed  towards  helping  you  to  save 
yourselves  from  a  threatened  apostasy,  which  seems  usually  to  follow 
fault-finding,  disloyalty,  and  opposition  to  the  Lord's  plans. 

However,  if  you  refuse  to  aid,  if  you  refuse  to  receive  the  bless- 
ings of  joy  and  satisfaction  which  come  from  treading  along  the  ways 
the  Lord  points  out,  we  should  point  out  to  you  that  the  welfare  plan 
has  lived,  and  we  feel  certain  it  will  live  so  long  as  the  Lord  continues 
to  give  his  blessings  to  the  plan,  and  so  long  as  the  loyal,  faithful  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  support  it.  But  for  your  sakes  we  should  rejoice 
beyond  measure  in  your  assistance. 

We  ask  you  bishops  and  presidents  of  stakes  and  chairmen  of 
regions,  not  to  'substitute  cash  for  the  actual  produce  called  for  in  fill- 
ing your  quotas.  We  need  the  produce,  so  please  furnish  your  quotas 
in  the  kinds  requested. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


27 


REPORT  OF  CHURCH  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  read  the  following  report  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee: 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
April  4,  1945 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  Counselors 
47  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Dear  Brethren: 

Your  Committee  reviewed  the  annual  financial  report  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the  year  ending  De- 
•cember  31,  1944.  That  report  discloses  the  Church  to  be  in  the  strong- 
est financial  position  in  its  history. 

The  expense  of  administration  is  very  conservative.  The  Church 
is  free  of  all  debt.  The  sustained  Authorities  are  administering  with 
great  care  the  sacred  funds  of  the  membership,  which  funds  are  con- 
tributed by  the  tens  of  thousands  of  devoted  members,  most  of  whom 
are  people  of  limited  income. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

Orval  W.  Adams 
A.  E.  Bowen 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  W.  Bennett 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  propose  to  use  the  opportunity  afforded  me  at  this  general  con- 
ference of  the  Church  to  read  a  letter  which  I  have  prepared.  My 
thought  in  presenting  it  here  is  that  the  message  of  my  letter  may 
have  better  prospects  of  reaching  those  to  whom  it  is  addressed,  and 
also  that  the  sentiments  which  I  have  expressed  may  serve  some  useful 
purpose  with  my  brethren  and  sisters  in  an  endeavor  comparable  to 
my  own.  I  shall  be  most  grateful  if  this  thinking  proves  to  be  justifi- 
able.  The  letter  is  addressed: 

To  my  friends  and  associates  in  various  lines  of  endeavor  who 
are  not  identified  with  the  Church  which  I  have  the  honor  to  represent. 

Teachings  of  the  Church  Set  Forth  In  A  Letter 

i 

My  dear  friends: 

For  many  years  it  has  run  in  my  mind  a  desire  to  approach  you 
on  the  subject  of  religion.  I  find  it  difficult  to  justify  my  delay  and  to 
discover  any  good  reason  why  I  have  been  so  hesitant  to  talk  with  you 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6 


First  Day 


about  spiritual  matters.  I  suppose  that  it  is  chiefly  because  I  have 
indulged  the  assumption  that  everyone's  religion  is  to  be  regarded  as 
such  a  personal  and  private  thing  that  I  have  felt  more  or  less  con- 
strained to  keep  off  the  subject,  except  where  casual  questions  have 
arisen  which  have  brought  on  brief  conversations.  You  will  wonder, 
perhaps,  in  view  of  such  diffidence  in  talking  to  you,  why  I  now  choose 
this  medium  of  an  open  letter  to  broach  the  subject  and  express  my 
sentiments  to  you.  The  only  answer  that  I  can  give,  and  it  is  not  a 
very  good  one,  is  that  it  seems  to  be  the  easiest  way  of  expressing 
myself  to  you  without  intruding  on  the  privacy  of  your  views  without 
your  consent. 

I  hope  you  will  not  resent  my  concern  in  your  spiritual  welfare. 
I  must  frankly  admit,  and  I  hope  the  admission  will  not  too  seriously 
affect  your  consideration  of  what  I  have  to  say,  that  I  am  prompted 
in  part  by  an  earnest  desire  to  disseminate  what  I  regard  to  be  vital 
principles  of  truth  among  all  men.  You  will  be  inclined  to  immediate- 
ly label  this  as  "propaganda,"  and  unfortunately  that  word  has  come 
to  bear  the  stigma  of  the  imposition  of  one  man's  views  on  another. 
I  hope  you  will  accept  my  disclaimer  of  any  attempt  to  force  my  ideas 
on  you,  and  I  hope,  too,  you  will  believe  me  when  I  say  to  you  in  ad- 
vance that  my  personal  regard  for  you  is  the  chief  motivating  factor 
in  the  writing  of  this  letter. 

Without  affectation,  I  express  my  admiration  for  the  splendid  virt- 
ues which  I  have  seen  in  many  of  you.  Your  integrity,  impeccable 
honor,  generosity,  courtesy,  and  ability  command  my  esteem.  I  often 
think  of  you  as  representatives  of  the  best  types  of  Christian  gentle- 
men and  ladies.  I  have  gained  much  from  your  association.  I  am  sure 
that  a  great  part  of  your  thinking  and  good  works  is  prompted  by 
Christian  ideals.  I  have  no  doubt  that  many  of  you  have  been  schooled 
in  and  accept  the  almost  universal  Christian  doctrines  of  the  Father- 
hood of  God  and  the  brotherhood  of  man,  the  atonement  of  the  Savior, 
the  immortality  of  the  soul,  and  the  good  life  of  virtue  and  altruism 
taught  and  exemplified  by  our  Lord. 

I  cheerfully  and  gratefully  acknowledge  the  beauty  and  efficacy 
of  these  great  doctrines  and  teachings  and  the  universal  distribution 
of  the  spirit  of  God  in  the  earth.  I  am  sure  that  the  Christian  doctrine 
and  faith  over  the  centuries  have  been  the  mainsprings  of  the  civilizing 
processes  which  have  brought  beauty,  culture,  science,  and  education 
to  their  present  high  state  of  attainment.  Christian  doctrine  is  also 
responsible  for  the  finest  concepts  of  liberty  and  justice  which  prevail 
in  the  world.  I  have  profound  gratitude  for  the  great  brotherhoods 
and  congregations  it  has  fostered  and  every  good  cause  which  has 
emanated  from  it. 

It  is  needless  to  say  also  that  I  have  the  deepest  admiration  for 
many  individual  Christians  who  ally  themselves  with  the  various 
Christian  denominations  of  the  world.  I  do  not  question  the  sincerity 
of  countless  thousands  who  give  themselves  to  God — who  strive  with 
all  the  power  and  knowledge  they  have  to  serve  him  and  keep  his  com- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  29 


mandments.  I  feel  sure  that  he  accepts  their  devotion;  that  he  an- 
swers their  prayers  of  faith  and  humility  and  that  he  recompenses  their 
every  good  act. 

I  have  deemed  it  desirable  to  so  set  forth  my  appreciation  of  the 
general  Christian  doctrine  and  faith  in  order  to  make  clear  to  you  that 
it  is  not  a  substitution  of  these  lofty  Christian  principles  which  have 
been  disseminated  throughout  the  world  for  so  many  centuries  which 
we  have  to  offer,  but  it  is  in  essence,  a  refinement,  an  extension,  an 
enlargement,  and  a  perfection  of  them  which  I  take  the  privilege  of 
bringing  to  your  attention.  You  will  pardon  me,  I  hope,  if  I  venture 
the  observation  that  many  of  you,  for  whose  ability  in  normal  investi- 
gation and  research  in  the  discovery  of  facts  I  have  the  highest  opin- 
ion, have  been  distracted  from  the  attainment  of  a  real  understanding 
and  concept  of  the  work  in  which  I  labor,  by  having  your  attention 
focused  upon  some  aspects  of  it  which  seem  to  differ  from  the  teach- 
ings and  practices  prevalent  in -other  Christian  denominations.  For 
instance,  you  are  all  pretty  well  acquainted  with  what  we  call  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  with  the  tithing  system  of  the  Church.  These  and 
other  somewhat  unique  practices  of  the  Church  have,  I  often  fear, 
stood  out  so  prominently  in  your  observation  and  contemplation  of 
the  Church  and  its  doctrine  that  you  may  not  have  troubled  your- 
selves, because  you  may  not  be  particularly  attracted  by  these  unique 
things,  to  delve  into  the  fundamental  concepts  and  principles  under- 
lying not  only  these  special  teachings  and  practices  but  the  whole 
body  of  truly  Christian  doctrine  which  we  have  to  give  to  man.  It 
is  true  that  we  regard  it  as  important  to  refrain  from  the  use  of  liquor 
and  tobacco  and  to  pay  tithing,  but  adherence  to  these  standards  does 
not  alone  constitute  complete  conversion  to  and  understanding  of  the 
latter-day  work,  although  generally  they  are  very  acceptable  evi- 
dences of  it.  I  would  like,  if  I  can,  at  least,  to  glimpse  for  you  what 
I  regard  as  being  the  more  basic  foundation  principles  set  forth  in  the 
latter-day  interpretation  and  presentation  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  I  hope  I  can  make  you  see  that  these  concepts  and  interpreta- 
tions are  not  in  any  way  antagonistic  to  the  true  Christian  principles 
to  which  many  of  you  subscribe,  but  that  they  serve  to  make  the 
Christian  doctrines  you  have  accepted  more  vital  and  real  and  more 
potent  in  the  realization  of  the  hope  and  faith  your  Christian  experi- 
ence has  brought  to  you. 

Now  I  must  proceed  upon  the  assumption  that  if  you  have  any 
interest  in  religion,  and  in  the  Christian  religion  in  particular,  your 
interest  prompts  you  to  want  the  truth  and  to'  secure  for  your  life  the 
best  which  is  obtainable.  I  am  sure  you  will  agree  that  the  chief  ob- 
jectives of  the  whole  Christian  doctrine  are  to  improve  life  here  and 
to  attain  a  good  and  eternal  life  hereafter.  Perhaps  these  two  objec- 
tives are  in  reality  one,  for  I  think  it  safe  to  say  that  most  Christians 
contemplate  a  relationship  between  life  here  and  life  hereafter.  Now, 
one  of  the  first  contributions  which  the  latter-day  interpretation  has 
to  offer  is  in  this  very  matter. 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Dag 

I  do  not  pretend  to  be  such  a  student  of  the  exposition  of  Chris- 
tian doctrine  over  the  centuries  as  to  enable  me  to  say  with  assurance 
that  the  distinction  between  general  salvation  and  individual  exalta- 
tion was  never  set  out  in  Christian  teachings  prior  to  the  advent  of  the 
latter-day  work,  but  I  am  certain  that  it  has  not  been  stressed  in  recent 
Christian  utterances.  This  distinction  between  salvation  and  exalta- 
tion we  regard  as  being  indispensable  to  a  true  understanding  of 
Christian  truths.  We,  as  many  of  you,  are  persuaded  that  the  teach- 
ings of  Christ  fully  justify  the  conclusion  that  he  came  to  earth  as  the 
Savior  to  atone  for  the  transgressions  of  our  first  earthly  parents 
which  removed  men  in  mortality  from  the  presence  and  association 
of  God,  our  eternal  Father.  We  may  not  be  able  to  explain  the  meth- 
od by  which  the  atoning  sacrifice  of  this  one  man  could  accomplish  the 
redemption  of  all  men  from  the  original  fall,  but  we  do  know  that  that 
was  the  purpose  and  the  effect  of  the  atonement,  and  we  have  full 
justification  for  believing  that  the  atonement  brought  life  after  death 
to  all  humanity  irrespective  of  the  goodness  or  the  badness  of  indi- 
viduals. Resurrection  from  the  grave  is  just  as  universal  as  death, 
and  general  salvation  in  the  sense  that  all  are  saved  from  the  effects 
of  original  sin  and  that  all  will  be  immortal  souls  is  the  universal  gift 
of  the  Son  of  God.  Individual  exaltation,  however,  is  something  dif- 
ferent. Through  a  latter-day  revelation  came  the  information  that 
there  are  stations  and  gradations  of  position  in  the  future  life  as  in 
this  life,  and  naturally  there  are  places  of  preference.  These  various 
stations  are  referred  to  in  the  revelation  as  being  kingdoms  or  degrees 
of  glory,  and  their  exposition  serves  to  amplify  and  clarify  the  Savior's 
reference  to  the  "many  mansions"  in  his  Father's  house,  and  other 
scriptural  passages.  By  exaltation  is  meant  the  attainment  of  the 
highest  station,  the  most  preferential  position  in  the  future  world  of 
varying  kingdoms  and  glories.  The  highest  place  or  kingdom  is  called 
celestial,  and  it  is  in  the  celestial  kingdom  that  the  highest  aspirations 
of  the  Christian  are  realized.  This  is  exaltation. 

I  cannot  tell  you  in  this  letter  all  that  exaltation  comprehends. 
Our  concept  of  heaven  is  a  study  of  no  small  proportions,  and  it  pre- 
supposes a  considerable  knowledge  of  other  revealed  theological  prin- 
ciples. It  must  suffice  for  this  writing  to  tell  you  that  it  contemplates 
not  only  the  preferential  condition  in  the  hereafter — a  coming  back 
into  the  presence  of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  but  it  projects  into  the 
future  a  state  of  perfection  of  the  human  soul.  The  immortal  soul 
which  is  the  union  of  body  and  spirit  becomes  invested  with  the  divine 
nature  of  our  eternal  Father  and  our  elder  Brother,  Jesus  Christ. 
One's  powers  of  accomplishment  are  unceasingly  multiplied  by  the 
eternal  acquisition  of  knowledge.  As  a  companion  of  the  Father  and 
the  Son,  he  joins  and  assists  in  their  work.  While  it  is  impossible  for 
the  finite  mind  concretely  to  visualize  the  scope  and  nature  of  divine 
operations  we  have  sufficient  knowledge  to  teach  us  that  they  are  of 
the  highest  order  and  satisfy  the  most  idealistic  craving  and  aspira- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


31 


tion  of  the  human  soul.  In  purpose  and  scope  it  is  a  never-ending  ex- 
perience in  eternal  progression  and  achievement. 

We  learn  also  from  the  revelations  that  in  this  lofty  state  of  ex- 
altation we  are  to  enjoy  a  perpetuation  of  the  kinship  and  ties  which 
have  bound  us  to  our  dear  ones  in  earth  life.  We  have  the  assurance 
that  the  things  which  we  have  prized  most  here  in  this  life — home  and 
family — are  not  to  be  denied  us  when  we  pass  from  mortality.  Hus- 
band and  wife  will  still  be  companions,  sons  and  daughters  forever 
our  children,  and  the  sacred  establishments  of  home  wherein  they 
were  bred  and  nurtured  will  be  spiritually  perpetuated.  And  then  we 
learn,  too,  of  a  profoundly  sacred  principle  and  p'romise  held  out  for 
those  who  attain  exaltation  which  I  mention  to  you  with  a  little  hesita- 
tion because  I  have  not  yet  laid  the  foundation  for  it,  and  that  is  this: 
That  these  eternal  homes  of  the  future  life  shall  be  blessed  with  etern- 
al increase  so  that  families  never  cease  growing  in  number,  in  virtue 
and  power,  ever  continuing  to  subserve  the  eternal  and  beneficent 
purposes  and  designs  of  the  Creator  of.  the  universe. 

I  am  keenly  aware  that  much  of  this  may  seem  highly  theoretical 
and  ethereal  to  you,  and  some  of  it  I  would  not  mention  to  you  at  this 
stage  of  discussion  if  I  did  not  deem  it  necessary  to  an  understanding 
of  that  which  is  to  follow.  Although  it  may  have  taxed  your  credulity 
and  faith  somewhat  to  entertain  in  your  thinking  the  ideas  which  I 
have  endeavored  to  project  concerning  exaltation  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom of  God,  I  wonder  if  many  a  devout  Christian  not  of  our  persuas- 
ion does  not  in  his  heart  hope  and  pray  reverently  for  some  such  con- 
dition as  I  have  outlined  as  the  embodiment  of  his  future  state  wheth- 
er or  not  he  has  ever  consciously  formulated  his  ideas  into  words.  To 
see  the  Eternal  Father  and  his  Son;  to  enjoy  something  of  their  as- 
sociation and  direction;  to  acquire  more  and  more  knowledge  and 
more  and  more  ability;  to  use  increased  talent  in  the  prosecution  of 
God's  work;  to  continue  to  enjoy  the  dearest  relationships  we  know 
on  earth;  to  build  an  eternal  home  with  never-ending  posterity,  may 
not  these  be  the  embodiment  of  the  hopes  and  righteous  aspirations 
of  a  Christian,  although  he  may  never  have  tried  to  visualize  them 
concretely  before? 

If  it  so  happens  that  you  have  never  asked  yourselves  the  ques- 
tion: What  does  heaven  hold  out  to  me,  a  Christian:  what  do  I  hope 
to  secure  in  life  after  death?  I  wish  you  would  ask  yourselves  this 
question  and  be  frank  with  yourselves  in  answering  it.  If  you  honest- 
ly conclude  that  you  have  never  attempted  any  visualization  of  a  fu- 
ture state,  it  may  be  that  the  concepts  I  have  given  you  from  modern 
revelation  will  help  you  to  formulate  your  ideas.  It  may  be,  too,  that 
if  you  have  heretofore  entertained  views  on  the  subject,  the  condi- 
tion which  I  have  described  which  obtains  in  the  hereafter  may  pretty 
largely  embrace  the  hopes  and  aspirations  which  you  have  had  in  more 
vague  and  uncertain  terms., 

In  any  event  I  am  going  to  ask  you  to  accede  for  the  moment  that 
in  Christian  theology  there  is  a  preferential  state  in  the  hereafter.  It 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6 


First  Dag 


seems  to  me  that  it  is  not  difficult  for  Christians  who  accept  Christ's 
teachings  of  the  rewards  for  the  good  life  to  make  this  concession. 
If,  therefore,  the  ultimate  goal  of  the  true  follower  of  Christ  is  to  at- 
tain exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom,  not  just  general  salvation  and 
resurrection  from  the  dead  which  come  to  all  through  the  atonement 
of  the  Savior,  not  immortality  which  is  the  lot  of  every  person  wheth- 
er he  will  or  no,  but  this  supreme  glory,  this  incomparable  blessing 
which  I  have  tried  so  feebly  to  describe;  if  that  is  the  ultimate  objec- 
tive, how  may  it  be  achieved? 

In  answering  this  question  I  am  obliged  to  discriminate.  It  would 
be  a  very  easy  and  simple  answer  and  one  that  I  am  sure  would  be  ac- 
ceptable to  many  people  to  say  that  nothing  more  is  necessary  than  to 
live  a  good  virtuous  Christian  life,  all  of  which  is  necessary  and  in- 
dispensable to  the  attainment  of  exaltation.  In  one  sense  the  Christian 
life  is  all  that  is  necessary,  but  it  is  not  the  sense  in  which  it  is  usually 
construed.  Through  latter-day  revelation  we  learn  that  the  true  fol- 
lowers of  Christ  not  only  incorporate  into  living  all  the  so-called 
Christian  virtues,  but  they  also  accept,  adopt,  and  conform  to  every 
law,  principle,  and  ordinance  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  They  believe 
that  the  gospel  in  its  entirety  is  designed  and  divinely  instituted  for 
the  single  purpose  of  leading  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God  into  his 
celestial  kingdom.  They  recognize  the  fact  that  it  has  been  in  ages 
past  and  now  is  and  will  continue  to  be  an  immense  gain  for  people 
to  adopt  the  Christian  virtues  as  a  standard  of  living,  but  they  know 
that  exaltation,  the  supreme  blessing,  may  be  had  only  through  obedi- 
ence to  every  specific  requirement  laid  down  therefor. 

Among  the  formal  requirements,  in  addition  to  the  good  life,  are 
membership  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  baptism,  the  laying  on  of  hands 
for  the  bestowal  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  receipt  of  the  priesthood  and 
sacred  temple  ordinances  revealed  to  and  performed  for  those  only 
who  prepare  themselves  for  initiation  into  the  beauties  and  blessings 
of  the  celestial  order..  You  may  wonder  why  these  formal  ceremonies 
and  ordinances  are  requisite.  In  this  brief  correspondence  I  can  only 
tell  you  that  they  are  prescribed  by  the  Lord  in  his  revelations  to  men, 
both  ancient  and  modern,  and  that  they  are  consistent  with  the  prin- 
ciples and  practices  laid  down  by  the  Savior  who  is  the  Author  of  the 
gospel  plan  during  his  ministry  in  the  flesh.  There  is  much  that  might 
be  said  by  way  of  explanation  and  argument  in  support  of  these  ordi- 
nances and  their  essential  symbolism  and  vitality  in  the  gospel  plan. 
I  am  sure  that  an  impartial  investigation  would  persuade  y*ou  of  their 
reasonableness  and  desirability,  but  in  the  last  analysis  their  accept- 
ance must  be  based  on  faith  in  the  revealed  word  of  God. 

Even  in  this  brief  sketch  there  is  one  more  basic  principle  to 
which  I  must  invite  your  attention.  I  am  sure  you  would  regard  it  as 
a  serious  omission  if  I  did  not  present  it,  for  if  you  gave  any  consider- 
ation at  all  to  the  essentiality  of  the  ordinances  which  I  have  men- 
tioned as  necessary  for  axaltation,  you  would  surely  want  to  know 
about  the  authority  to  administer  them.    Is  this  authority  available? 


ELDER-STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


33 


L  am  sorry  I  have  not  time  at  this  writing  to  give  you  a  full  account  of 
its  bestowal  by  authorized  messengers  and  its  derivation  down  to  the 
present  time.  I  will  have  to  content  myself  by  giving  you  a  legal  opin- 
ion. It  so  happens  that  I  have  had  some  training  in  the  law,  and  I 
have  some  knowledge  of  the  competency  and  admissibility  of  evidence 
to  sustain  an  allegation  in  a  judicial  tribunal.  I  do  not  hesitate  to  give 
it  to  you  as  my  opinion,  that  there  has  been  at  various  times  since  the 
origin  of  this  latter-day  work,  competent  legal  evidence  available  for 
introduction  in  any  court  of  law  for  the  establishment  and  verification 
of  the  claims  put  forth  by  those  chosen  to  originate  the  restored  gospel 
as  to  divine  authority  conferred  upon  them,  and  as  to  the  transmission 
of  that  authority  to  the  present  day.  I  cannot  reasonably  expect  you 
to  rely  on  this  opinion.  The  most  that  I  can  hope  for  is  that  it  may 
serve  to  prompt  investigation. 

There  are  other  factors  inherent  in  the  nature  of  this  divine  com- 
mission which  bring  irrefutable  assurance  to  me  and  my  associates  of 
its  genuineness.   I  believe  some  of.  them  would  appeal  to  you. 

Now,  my  friends,  I  am  forced  to  a  quick  summation.  In  taking 
the  liberty  of  writing  you,  I  have  assumed  your  interest  in  Christian 
religion  and  your  acceptance  of  the  Christ  as  the  Author  of  the  gospel. 
I  have  all  too  briefly  reviewed  the  Savior's  atonement  and  its  effect 
in  bringing  general  salvation  and  redemption  to  the  human  family.  All 
will  be  resurrected  and  secure  the  boon  of  immortality.  There  is  an 
order  in  the  resurrection  of  which  some  day  I  would  like  to  tell  you. 
I  have  pointed  out  the  difference  between  general  salvation  and  in- 
dividual exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom,  which  is  designed  to  be 
the  highest  and  final  goal  of  the  faithful  Christian.  I  have  mentioned 
the  requirements  for  admission  into  this  preferential  state  and  the 
authority  essential  for  the  administration  of  the  ordinances.  This  is 
but  a  skeleton  outline  of.  a  few  basic  principles  which  have  come  in 
these  latter-days  with  the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  There  are 
countless  other  arresting  concepts  resulting  from  this  new  interpreta- 
tion which  make  priceless  contributions  to  the  Christian  doctrine.  Out 
of  my  friendship  for  you,  I  have  a  great  desire  that  you  might  hear 
these  concepts,  enjoy  them,  and  adopt  them.  I  know  they  will  bring 
richness  into  your  lives  as  they  have  done  in  mine,  and  I  know  they 
are  good  for  the  world  in  the  solution  of  its  problems,  but  that  is  an- 
other subject,  into  which  I  must  not  enter. 

I  hope  you  will  accept  this  letter  in  the  spirit  in  which  I  write  it, 
as  one  friend  to  another.  If  it  shall  serve  to  intrigue  your  interest 
in  the  least  degree  in  the  cause  that  is  so  dear  to  my  heart,  I  shall  li- 
very grateful. 

There  is  but  one  thing  more.  If  you  are  prompted  to  give  con- 
sideration to  the  things  I  have  written  about,  I  hope  you  will  not  be 
dissuaded  in  their  acceptance  by  the  deficiencies  you  may  observe  in 
the  lives  of  some  of  us  who  have  espoused  this  noble  cause.  We  con- 
fess our  weaknesses.  We  are  trying  to  develop  strength  to  overcome 
them.   I  ask  you  to  try  to  look  at  the  excellence  of  the  message  and 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

overlook  the  faults  of.  some  of  its  adherents.  Please  judge  it  by  what 
it  has  done  in  the  elevation  of  the  lives  of  thousands  of  our  Father's 
children  and  by  its  inherent  truth. 

With  kindest  regards  and  the  best  of  good  wishes,  I  am 

Sincerely  and  fraternally  yours, 

Stephen  L  Richards 

My  brethren  of  this  assembly: 

I  thank  you  very  much  for  patiently  listening  to  my  reading  of 
this  letter.  If  perchance  it  should  contain  a  thought  which  might  be 
helpful  to  you  in  bringing  the  gospel  message  to  some  of  your  friends, 
I  shall  feel  that  your  indulgence  has  been  in  some  measure  justified. 
That  we  may  all  have  the  urge  and  the  courage  to  bring  the  truth  to 
the  understanding  of  our  neighbors  and  associates  is  my  earnest 
prayer.  I  ask  it  numbly  in  the  name  of  him  whose  servants  we  are, 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen.  '  . 

President  Clark: 

In  the  last  few  minutes  President  Seymour  Dilworth  Young  has 
come  into  the  building.  As  Brother  McKay  told  you,  we  have  been 
trying  to  reach  him  since  this  morning  very  early.  Brother  Young, 
while  you  were  on  the  road  coming  here,  we  have  sustained  you  as 
one  of  the  members  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.  This  calling 
without  notice  or  previous  consultation,  is  the  way  the  call  of  the  Lord 
frequently  comes.  We  would  like  you  to  come  to  the  stand  this  after- 
noon Brother  Young,  and  take  your  place  with  your  brethren. 

The  congregation  will  now  sing,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation," 
Song  Folder  14,  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  339,  Hymn  Book  No.  227. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  John  D.  Hill  of 
the  Oquirrh  Stake,  after  which  the  conference  will  stand  adjourned 
until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon.  This  afternoon's  session  will  be  broad- 
cast over  KSL  of,  Salt  Lake  City  and  KSUB  of  Cedar  City. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  A  Foundation," 
L.D.S.  Hymns  339,  Hymn  Book  227. 

Elder  John  T.  Hill,  President  of  the  Oquirrh  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock  p.m. 
in  the' Assembly  Hall,  with  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency,  presiding  and  conducting  the  services. 

President  Clark: 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  1 1 5th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


35 


There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  all  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  as  sustained  this  morning,  except  President 
Grant,  who  is  resting  at  home  and  who  has  a  direct  wire  leading  from 
the  Assembly  Hall  to  his  home  so  that  he  is  able  to  listen  in  on  the 
services. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  KSUB  at  Cedar  City. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  congregation  singing:  "Come 
Ye  Children  of  the  Lord,"  Song  Folder  No.  15,  L.D.S.  Hymns,  No. 
238.  Our  Conductor  this  afternoon  is  Elder  Richard  P.  Condie;  our 
organist,  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  James  M.  Smith 
of  the  St.  Joseph  Stake. 


The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  Ye  Chil- 
dren of  the  Lord." 

Elder  James  M.  Smith,  President  of  the  St.  Joseph  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?"  L.D.S. 
Hymns  No.  191,  Hymn  Book  No.  59. 

ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Portrayal  of  Home  Conditions  Related  In 
Magazine  Article 

A  few  years  ago  I  read  an  article  in  a  national  magazine  written 
by  an  obviously  well  informed  and  high  principled  woman.  Apparent- 
ly she  had  never  married  and  after  many  years  of  separation  made 
a  visit  to  an  intimate  friend  of  her  college  days  who  had  by  then 
two  well  grown  children,  a  boy  and  a  girl.  Her  story  is  mainly  about 
the  shock  she  experienced  from  the  conduct  of  these  two  children. 
She  noted  that  their  mother,  her  old  friend,  had  substantially  no  in- 
fluence with  them.  The  daughter's  bearing  towards  her  mother  was 
condescending.  Her  mother's  exhortations  and  protests  were  re- 
ceived with  a  patronizing  air  of  wearied  tolerance  as  if  to  say  that 
this  superior  young  lady  would  have  to  bear  with  what  resignation 
she  could  the  hopelessly  old-fashioned,  outmoded  and  impossible 
notions  of  her  matured  mother. 

The  visitor  heard  the  worried  mother  protest  the  indelicate  in- 
discretions of  the  girl  in  her  behavior  with  young  men  without  even 
the  precaution  of  privacy  and  heard  the  daughter's  mockery  of  her 
mother's  prudery  and  lack  of  sophistication. 

The  boy  of.  the  household  went  and  came  pretty  much  as  he 
pleased  with  no  questions  asked  or  answered.  Home  to  him  was  a 
place  to  sleep  and  have  meals,  if  convenient. 

Exhibitions  of  this  kind  were  a  source  of  deep  wonder  and  un- 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 


easy  concern,  as  well  as  of  embarrassment,  to  the  guest  in  the  house. 
But  the  climax  came  as  the  period  of  her  visit  was  drawing  to  its 
close.  She  was  awakened  in  the  night  by  a  disturbance  in  the  house 
and  was  the  unwilling  ear  witness  of  a  family  scene.  The  girl  it 
seems  had  come  home  from  a  late  party  pretty  thoroughly  intoxi- 
cated and  was  leading  her  escort,  in  like  condition,  to  her  room  when 
they  were  detected  and  intercepted  by  her  aroused  parents.  There 
was  a  noisy  scene  before  the  boy  was  finally  sent  off  home  and  the 
girl  put  to  bed. 

The  girl  made  no  pretense  of  concealing  from  her  mother  her 
habit  of  flouting  the  conventions  so  far  as  modesty  and  maidenly 
purity  were  concerned.  So  the  author  ended  her  visit  and  went 
home  to  clear  her  head  and  do  some  thinking.  The  result  was  the 
article  mentioned. 

Apparently  she  had  a  quite  thorough-going  acquaintance  with 
the  ideas  and  attitudes  of  the  youth  of  the  day,  and  she  undertook 
a  searching  analysis  of  conditions  as  she  knew  them  to  be  and  as 
pointedly  focused  upon  her  attention  by  her  recent  visit.  Her  whole 
sense  of  propriety  and  even  decency  was  outraged  by  what  she  had 
seen  at  her  friend's  home. 

That  friend,  in  the  days  of  their  girlhood  association,  had  spon- 
taneously, and  as  a  matter  of  habit  and  acceptance,  observed  the 
conventions  and  proprieties.  She  had  been  a  girl  of  robust  health 
and  exuberance,  happy,  wholesome,  a  delightful  companion  of  high 
ethical  and  moral  standards.  She  had  a  wholesome  zest  for  life  and 
enjoyed  living.   How  to  account  for  her  children! 

Examination  Into  Cause  of  Delinquency 

The  author  examined  her  own  life  and  the  atmosphere  in  which 
she  had  been  reared  as  well  as  the  lives  of  the  youth  of  her  time  in- 
cluding the  friend  she  had  just  visited.  They  recognized  certain 
self-restraints  which  were  expected  of.  girls  of  good  upbringing  and 
conformed  to  established  standards  of  decorum  and  good  breeding. 
They  still  did,  now  that  they  were  come  to  maturity  of  life,  and  were 
pained  by  the  departures  of  today.  This  naturally  led  back  into  an 
examination  of  the  influences  that  had  gone  into  the  shaping  of  their 
characters.  And  that  carried  the  examination  inevitably  back  to  the 
homes  in  which  they  had  been  reared. 

The  religious  note  was  strong  in  those  homes.  The  Bible  was 
read  and  believed  in.  Families  prayed  there.  Daily  on  their  knees 
they  talked  to  God  who  was  revered  and  was  a  reality.  They  were 
church-going  people  and  set  apart  one  day  a  week  as  a  holy  day  to 
hold  sacred  and  on  which  to  do  reverence  to  the  Author  of  life.  The 
majestic  hymns  they  sang  carried  messages  to  their  expanding  souls. 
They  heard  the  simple,  direct,  soulful,  and  convincing  words  of  the 
gospels  whose  grandeur  somehow  silently  carried  over  into  their 
hearts  and  furnished  the  ideals  for  their  living.  Those  ideals  through 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


37 


practice  were  silently  woven  into  the  pattern  of  their  lives,  and  they 
came  out  with  established  characters,  and  stable  guides  to  conduct, 
which  made  them  secure  against  the  waves  of  laxity  which  washed 
about  them  with  the  changes  of  time. 

Then  the  author  did  what  to  me  seemed  a  most  astonishing 
thing.  She  proceeded  to  explain  that,  of  course,  she  and  her  friend 
and  their  associates  had  in  their  college  years  given  up  the  simple 
faith  of  their  youth,  had  ceased  to  give  credence  to  the  beliefs  which 
had  sustained  them,  had  given  up  their  Bible  reading  and  their 
church-going  and  their  Sabbath  observance  and  their  prayers.  They 
found  that  these  artificial  props  were  not  necessary  to  their  living  of 
the  good  life.  They  didn't  need  the  church — group  practice  of  re- 
ligion— they  had  their  own  religion  which  was  quite  sufficient, 
though  really  it  was  only  a  certain  code  of  ethics  originally  rooted 
in  their  religion  but  now  cut  loose  from  its  roots  and  dying  because 
no  longer  nourished  from  the  roots.  With  an  amazingly  artless  sim- 
plicity, she  deplored  and  was  baffled  by  the  barbarity  of  her  friend's 
children  without  apparent  consciousness  of  her  own  incredible  fail- 
ure to  recognize  the  relations  of  cause  and  effect.  Her  friend's  atti- 
tude toward  religion  and  religious  practices  was  similar  to  her  own. 
Yet  here  she  was  mystified  by  the  moral  bankruptcy  of  her  friend's 
children  who  had  been  deprived  of  the  very  character-forming  in- 
fluences upon  which  the  strength  of  her  own  character  and  of  her 
friend's  character,  and  the  characters  of  their  generation  had  de- 
pended for  formation  and  growth. 

What  right  have  parents  or  others  to  complain  that  children's 
standards  are  not  up  to  their  own  when  they  have  deprived  those 
children  of  the  very  faith  and  practices  upon  which  their  standards 
have  been  established?  By  her  own  confession  the  author  whose 
analysis  we  are  considering  and  likewise  the  mother  of.  the  children 
whose  conduct  had  provoked  her  study  had  been  themselves  living 
on  the  early-gathered  fruits  of  a  now  discarded  faith. 

That  might  suffice  to  carry  them  through  from  the  force  of 
established  habit.  But  with  that  faith  discarded  there  was  nothing 
to  bear  new  fruit  for  the  nourishment  of  the  next  generation.  She 
and  her  friends  had  been  living  upon  and  had  consumed  their  spiri- 
tual capital,  and  there  was  no  inheritance  left  for  the  children. 

It  seems  incredible  that  this  highly  intellectual  woman  whose 
penetrating  insight  had  so  unerringly  led  her  to  put  her  finger  on 
the  factors  most  powerful  in  the  stabilization  of  herself  and  friends 
could  have  been  so  wholly  oblivious  to  the  need  of  those  same  in- 
fluences in  the  lives  of  new  generations. 

Because  sh'e  and  her  friends  had  been  able  to  maintain  integrity 
of  life  after  they  had  discarded  their  early  beliefs,  she  apparently 
thought  that  such  beliefs  and  the  practices  to  which  they  led  were 
not  necessary  to  stability,  failing  to  discern  that  ethical  principles 
lose  their  convincing,  motivating  power  when  divorced  from  the  re- 
ligious faith  which  gave  them  birth.    It  is  a  common  error.   We  all, 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

■Friday,  April  6  First  Dag 

I  am  sure,  can  call  to  mind  friends  of  the  highest  standards  of  charac- 
ter who  have  drifted  away  from  the  religious  convictions  in  which 
they  were  reared  and  have  been  pained  to  see  that  their  children's 
characters  have  so  sadly  deteriorated.  It  is  hard  for  character  pat- 
terns to  carry  over  for  more  than  one  generation  beyond  the  one 
which  witnessed  the  forsaking  of  the  faith  in  which  those  patterns 
were  fashioned. 

The  lady  we  are  speaking  of  deplored  the  degeneracy  she  was 
compelled  to  admit,  but  never  once  did  she  even  so  much  as  hint  that 
the  remedy  lay  in  the  revival  in  the  homes  of  the  land  of  the  influences 
under  which  she  herself  had  grown  strong. 

Christian  Faith  the  Root  of  Civilization 

Now,  if  religion  goes  into  decay  in  enough  homes,  it  will  fade 
out  in  the  nation,  which  after  all  is  but  the  aggregate  of  the  individ- 
ual home  units.  That  would  be  a  change  of  fundamental  and  of  far- 
reaching  consequences.  For  the  truth  is  that  the  whole  western  civil- 
ization was  built  upon  the  basis  of  the  Christian  religion.  Termin- 
ology itself  tells  how  completely  this  is  so.  Christendom  is  the  word 
employed  to  designate  that  large  area  of  the  world  where  the  Chris- 
tian religion  became  dominant.  With  its  establishment  and  accept- 
ance in  the  Roman  empire,  it  became  the  most  powerful  influence  in 
shaping  the  course  of  the  western  nations  where  Rome  had  con- 
trolled and  of  new  nations  which  came  into  being.  So  important 
was  that  influence  that  the  advent  of  Christ  was  made  the  new  base 
for  the  reckoning  of  time.  All  events  in  Christendom  are  dated  as 
having  occurred  before  or  after  that  meridian.  It  marked  the  begin- 
ning of  a  new  era  which  still  is  spoken  of  as  the  Christian  era.  The 
whole  new  civilization  had  its  roots  in  the  Christian  faith.  Of  course 
its  ideals  of  perfection  could  not  at  once  be  assimilated  or  even 
grasped  by  the  peoples  who  received  them.  They  made  plenty  of 
mistakes  and  committed  many  excesses  and  grafted  on  plenty  of 
false  interpretation.  Nevertheless  the  Christian  faith  remained  the 
central  idea  that  dominated  all  else.  It  has  remained  so  through 
many  centuries,  and  you  can't  cut  loose  from  it  now  without  effecting 
a  revolutionary  change.  So  long  as  the  abstract  idea  is  adhered  to 
as  the  guiding  notion,  no  matter  how  imperfectly  lived  in  practice 
you  can  always  hope  for  improvement,  a  moving  away  from  errone- 
ous conceptions  toward  the  ideal.  But  when  the  ideal  itself  as  a 
central  controlling  force  is  gone  then  a  basic  change  has  come. 
Christian  convictions  made  the  west  dominant  over  the  centuries.  A 
departure  from  them  is  portentous  in  the  extreme. 

No  Peace  Except  Upon  A  Spiritual  Basis 

Where  does  the  world  of  Christendom  stand  today?  Right  in 
its  heart,  not  in  some  pagan  land,  the  present  cataclysmic  upheaval 
broke  out.  It  was  freely  recognized  that  there  was  irreconcilable  an- 
tagonism between  the  old  Christian  basis  and  the  ideals  of  the  new 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BO  WEN 


39 


order.  We  had  not  only  a  physical  war  but  a  war  of  basic  beliefs 
as  well.  So  long  as  disputants  profess  the  same  basic  beliefs  and 
purposes  but  differ  about  the  means  of  their  realisation  you  have 
merely  a  struggle  for  control.  But  when  fundamental  beliefs  are  at 
war,  you  have  the  inception  of  revolution.  It  is  no  longer  a  mere 
struggle  for  control  but  a  struggle  that  reaches  down  to  the  spiritual 
depths.  Any  mature  person  who  wants  to  take  a  retrospective  glance 
must  see  that  between  1914  and  1939  something  very  fundamental 
has  happened.  That  first  named  year  saw  the  beginning  of  a  great 
war.  We  got  into  it  with  a  fanfare  of  great  national  exhilaration. 
Our  soldiers  marched  off  to  the  blare  of  trumpets  and  the  stirring 
strains  of  martial  airs  as  the  bands  led  them  away.  Everybody  had 
unshaken  faith  in  the  soundness  of  our  institutions  and  the  unques- 
tioned merits  of  our  system.  The  war  was  but  a  bothersome  inter- 
ruption in  a  course  of  life  which  would  pick  up  again  when  the  nasty 
business  was  over.  Today  it  is  not  so.  There  is  no  fanfare,  no  sparkl- 
ing enthusiasm,  but  a  sombre,  sober  resignation  to  an  ugly,  unwel- 
come task  which  must  be  done.  I  am  not  saying  that  there  is  less  of 
determination  or  of  efficiency  than  there  was  before.  But  the  spirit 
of  the  approach  is  different.  Neither  are  people  so  sure  about  what 
will  happen  afterwards  nor  what  it  is  all  about.  There  is  a  grave 
anxiety  and  uneasiness  of  feeling  evidenced  by  the  voluminous  talk 
about  the  postwar  world.  There  seem  even  to  be  some  who  think 
our  system  is  wrong — the  basic  concept  on  which  our  institutions 
have  rested — and  they  are  willing  to  see  it  all  die.  Others  think 
evils  have  fastened  themselves  like  barnacles  upon  us,  and  they  need 
to  be  pared  away.  There  is  contrarity  of  opinion  as  to  what  is  worth 
saving  and  what  should  be  consigned,  without  struggle  or  regret,  to 
the  limbo  of  oblivion.  New  conceptions  are  thrusting  themselves  for- 
ward. The  strong  faith  of  half  a  century  ago  is  crumbling;  we  are 
losing  our  spiritual  basis.  Dr.  Sproul  of  the  University  of  California 
has  said  we  are  in  a  race  with  catastrophe.  But  people  don't  seem 
to  believe  it,  nor  to  know  that  the  spiritual  problem  lies  at  the  core 
of  our  trouble  and  demands  solution  if  we  are  to  recover  our  national 
health. 

Look  at  the  liberated  countries  of  Europe.  No  sooner  is  the  heel 
of  the  oppressor  lifted  than  bitter  strife  embroils  them  anew.  Self 
seeking,  greed  for  power,  groundworks  for  a  new  supremacy,  irre- 
concilable differences  about  the  spiritual  basis  of  government,  its 
functions,  and  relationships  to  those  who  live  under  it — all  clamor- 
ing for  recognition  and  control.  Unless  they  can  be  reconciled  on 
the  basis  of  an  underlying  spiritual  end  there  can  be  no  contentment, 
hence  no  peace. 

But  everybody  seems  still  to  pin  faith  to  economic  and  techno- 
logical reconstructions.  We  hear  much  about  elevating  the  stand- 
ard of  living  of  peoples.  But  almost  exclusively  those  improvements 
seem  to  be  conceived  of  as  providing  more  things— greater  physical 
satisfactions,  greater  ease,  more  leisure,  less  work,  more  guarantees 


40 

Friday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


of  physical  security.  Long  ago  Jesus  taught  that  "life  consisteth  not 
in  the  abundance  of  the  things  one  possesseth"  and  that  "life  is  more 
than  meat  and  the  body  more  than  raiment."  Principles  are  pushed 
aside  in  the  interest  of  immediate  gain.  When  the  American  col- 
onies were  having  their  disputes  with  the  mother  country,  the  latter 
fixed  it  so  that  they  could  buy  their  tea  and  pay  the  tax  cheaper  than 
they  could  smuggle  the  tea  in  without  tax.  It  was  thought  this  would 
beguile  them  into  yielding  and  paying  the  inconsequential  tax.  But 
the  colonists  were  standing  for  a  principle.  If  they  could  be  sub- 
jected to  a  small  tax,  they  could,  when  the  custom  was  firmly  estab- 
lished, be  subjected  to  a  larger  tax.  They  resisted  and  took  the  con- 
sequences. That  is  the  essence  of  spiritual  supremacy.  What  is 
needed  today  in  Christendom  is  a  revived  faith  in  the  spiritual  basis 
upon  which  it  was  built  rather  than  more  machines  and  things.  De- 
votion to  principle  rather  than  victims  of  the  bribery  of  easy  satisfac- 
tion through  immediate  gain! 

The  war  is  not  the  cause  of  the  world's  trouble;  it  is  only  the 
outward  manifestation  of  an  inner  decay.  When  the  war  is  over, 
the  trouble  will  not  be  over,  which  is  the  reason  for  the  great  concern 
about  the  postwar  world.  The  world  will  still  have  the  spiritual 
sickness,  which  is  the  real  cause  of  the  war,  to  deal  with.  The  moods 
and  notions  which  have  permeated  the  minds  of  men  cannot  be  shot 
with  bullets.  They  will  still  be  rampant  when  the  fighting  is  over. 
We  may  not  flatter  ourselves  that  they  are  confined  to  the  aggressor 
countries.  In  one  degree  or  another  they  have  penetrated  into  all 
lands.  They  are  doing  their  work  of  corroding,  corrupting,  under- 
mining, destroying. 

You  can't  pick  up  peace  and  put  it  on  people;  it  is  a  state  of 
the  spirit.  You  can't  hand  over  liberty  or  freedom  as  a  gift  to  people 
who  are  not  spiritually  prepared  to  receive  it.  Disputes  about  means 
of  accomplishing  ends  agreed  upon  are  of  little  consequence,  but 
when  the  ends  themselves  are  in  dispute  you  have  a  difference  that 
goes  right  into  the  heart  and  spirit  of  things. 

And  the  disputes  which  divide  the  peoples  of  the  world  today 
are  disputes  about  ends,  about  the  whole  spirit  that  governs  in  hu- 
man relationships.    Nothing  but  spiritual  unity  will  work  the  cure. 

And  that  spiritual  essence  must  rest  in  a  power  standing  above 
all  to  command  their  allegiance.   It  must  rest  in  God. 

The  Gospel  the  Foundation  of  Peace 

You  who  are  gathered  here  may  properly  have  keen  interest  in 
plans  for  the  curing  of  the  ills  of  the  world,  but  you  may  be  assured 
to  start  with  that  there  are  no  values  which  form  so  safe,  a  guide  as 
the  gospel  which  formed  the  basis  upon  which  the  nations  of  Christ- 
endom were  founded  and  which  attained  their  highest  expression 
under  the  Constitution  of  our  own  land.  The  disintegrating  forces 
are  such  that  no  passive  piety  or  lip  service  will  do.  It  must  be  an 
active,  motivating  assertive  faith  cultivated,  and  fostered,  and  main- 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


41 


tained  in  the  homes  and  among  the  families  of  the  people.  It  calls 
for  a  revival  of  the  worship  of  God  in  the  homes,  where  he  is  be- 
lieved in,  revered,  prayed  to — where  a  day  is  given  to  reverence 
when  people  assemble  in  worship  and  hear  again  the  majestic  words 
of  the  Master  and  gain  a  rebirth  of  the  spirit.  Go  home  and  teach 
your  people  that,  and  you  will  be  ministering  to  their  salvation  as 
well  as  to  the  good  of  the  world.  That  we  may  all  do  so,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

One  day  an  ancient  prophet  called  his  son  to  his  side  and  talked 
with  him  about  liberty.  They  discussed  the  free  agency  which  God 
has  given  to  us  all,  which  permits  every  man  to  choose  his  own  course 
in  life,  whether  good  or  bad.  The  father  told  his  son  that  it  is  impos- 
sible for  a  man  to  exercise  his  right  of  choice  unless  alternatives  are 
placed  before  him:  virtue  and  vice,  light  and  darkness,  the  bitter 
and  the  sweet.  Then  he  said,  "Man  could  not  act  for  himself  save 
it  should  be  that  he  was  enticed  by  the  one  or  the  other."  Therefore, 
"it  must  needs  be  that  there  is  an  opposition  in  all  things."  The 
ancient  prophet  told  his  son  that  this  opposition  in  all  things  had 
existed  from  the  beginning  of  time  and  that  even  in  the  Garden  of 
Eden  the  forbidden  fruit  stood  in  opposition  to  the  tree  of  life.  ( See  ' 
II  Nephi  2:11-16.) 

The  Right  To  Choose  Given  To  Mankind 

When  Jesus  began  his  ministry,  he  also  dealt  with  this  opposition 
in  all  things.  He  recognized  that  evil  is  in  the  world,  and  he  acknowl- 
edged that  all  men  have  their  free  agency  and  have  the  right  to  choose 
between  the  good  and  the  evil.  All  through  his  ministry  he  taught 
men  to  choose  the  right  and  told  them  of  the  many  blessings  they 
would  receive  if  they  would  do  so. 

Again  he  said  that  if  men  were  to  choose  the  evil  they  would 
be  condemned;  that  their  offences  would  bring  sorrow,  not  only  upon 
other  men  but  upon  themselves.  Therefore,  he  said: 

Woe  unto  the  world  because  of  offences!  for  it  must  needs  be  that 
offences  come;  but  woe  to  that  man  by  whom  the  offence  cometh.  (Matt. 
18:7.) 

As  he  went  about  in  his  ministry,  Jesus  was  met  with' varied  re- 
actions. There  were  some  who  gladly  accepted  him,  followed  him 
wherever  he  went  and  tried  to  live  his  teachings.  There  were  some 
who  were  indifferent,  and  then  there  were  others  who  openly  opposed 
him.  So  the  people  of  that  day  had  before  them  a  clear  working 
example  of  the  law  of  opposition  in  all  things.  On  the  one  hand  was 
Jesus  preaching  the  way  of  life;  on  the  other  were  the  Scribes  and  the 
Pharisees  who  fought  him  at  every  step.   Then  there  were  the  indif- 


42 

Friday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


ferent  ones.  Can  we  say  that  they  were  for  the  Lord  or  against  him, 
or  were  they  merely,  as  we  say,  indifferent?  I  call  to  your  mind  that 
the  indifferent  ones  did  not  keep  the  commandments,  and  by  their  in- 
difference they  encouraged  others  to  be  indifferent,  and  as  the  others 
became  indifferent,  they  also  refused  to  obey  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord  their  God. 

These  indifferent  ones  built  up  a  barrier  against  the  Christ,  and 
as  they  spread  the  example  of  disobedience  they  became  a  hindrance 
to  him  in  his  work,  and  for  that  reason  the  Lord  said : 

He  that  is  not  with  me  is  against  me;  and  he  that  gathereth  not  with 
me  scattereth  abroad.  (Matt.  12:30.) 

At  another  time  he  said,  "Ye  are  my  friend,  if  ye  do  whatsoever 
I  command  you";  and  then  again  he  said,  "He  .that  loveth  me  not 
keepeth  not  my  sayings." 

His  attitude  regarding  the  indifferent  ones  is  further  shown  by 
the  message  of  the  Lord  to  the  seven  churches  as  given  to  John  on 
Patmos;  and  you  remember  what  was  said  to  one  of  those  churches: 

I  know  thy  works,  that  thou  art  neither  cold  nor  hot:  I  would  thou 
wert  cold  or  hot.  So  then  because  thou  art  lukewarm,  and  neither  cold  nor 
hot,  I  will  spue  thee  out  of  my  mouth.  (Rev.  3:15,  16.) 

So  with  the  Lord  we  take  sides.  We  are  either  for  him  or  we  are 
against  him.  We  are  strengthening  his  work  or  we  are  weakening 
his  work.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  should  ask  himself  whether  he  is 
for  the  Lord  or  whether  he  is  against  the  Lord;  whether  his  deeds  are 
sustaining  and  strengthening  the  work  of  God  or  whether  his  deeds, 
even  his  indifference,  are  weakening  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
,  *  ■ 

Men  Are  Authorized  To  Carry  On  God's  Work 

Then  there  is  another  lesson  which  the  Lord  taught  in  those  days, 
and  that  lesson  was  this:  that  we  cannot  be  for  the  Lord  and  at  the 
same  time  be  against  his  authorized  servants. 

Jesus  well  understood  that  he  would  not  remain  long  in  mortality 
and  that  his  ministry  would  necessarily  be  limited,  and  so  he  planned 
to  follow  the  age-old  example  of  the  Lord  in  raising  up  and  calling  to 
the  ministry  living  prophets,  authorized  men  of  God,  to  carry  on  the 
work. 

But  in  doing  so  it  was  necessary  for  the  Lord  to  warn  these  serv- 
ants in  the-ministry  of -the  attitude  of  the  people.  He  remembered  that 
in  the  ages  past  there  had  been  a  tendency  on  the  part  of  the  people 
to  resist,  reject,  persecute,  and  even  slay  the  prophets  of  God,  and 
Jesus  knew  that  that  tendency  continued  even  in  his  own  day  because 
he  had  felt  it.  And  now,  as  he  was  about  to  send  forth  his  authorized 
servants  to  minister  among  the  people,  and  having  in  mind  this  ten- 
dency, he  said  to  them,  "I  send  you  forth  as  lambs  among  wolves." 

What  a  commentary  upon  those  who  reject  and  resist  and  per- 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


43 


secute  the  authorities  of  the  Church.  What  a  rebuke  from  the  Lord 
himself  to  those  who  stand  in  opposition  to  the  servants  of  the  Lord. 

He  tried  to  comfort  these  disciples.  He  told  them  that  who- 
soever would  receive  his  authorized  servants  would  receive  him;  and 
whosoever  received  him  would  receive  him  who  sent  the  Lord.  But 
then  he  said : 

...  he  that  despiseth  you,  despiseth  me;  and  he  that  despiseth  me 
despiseth  him  that  sent  me.  (Luke  10:16.) 

Remember,  he  was  speaking  to  the  authorities  of  the  Church. 
Then  he  said  further: 

.  .  .  whosoever  shall  not  receive  you,  nor  hear  your  words,  .  .  .  Verily 
I  say  unto  you,  It  shall  be  more  tolerable  for  the  land  of  Sodom  and  Go- 
morrha  in  the  day  of  judgment,  than  for  that  city.  (Matt.  10:14-15.) 

Modern  Authorities  on  Same  Basis 

Then  with  his  warning  these  chosen  servants  of  the  Lord,  these 
authorities  of  the  early  day  Church,  went  forth  as  commanded  by  the 
Lord,  and  they  tasted  of  the  opposition  in  all  things.  There  was  op- 
position within  the  Church,  and  there  was  opposition  out  of  the 
Church.  Persecution  both  within  and  without  increased.  The  spirit 
of  apostasy  spread,  and  finally  apostasy  overcame  the  Church.  The 
leaders  of  the  Church  were  destroyed,  and  taken  out  of  the  ministry. 
The  people  were  left  in  darkness,  and  gross  darkness  covered  their 
minds,  and  we  had  a  complete  apostasy  from  the  truth. 

It  was  decreed,  however,  that  in  the  last  days  there  should  be  a 
restoration  of  the  Church,  and  we  who  are  here  are  witnesses  of  the 
fact  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  in  these  last 
days.  But  it  has  been  restored  upon  the  same  basis  that  the  Church 
was  built  upon  in  ancient  times  and  is  founded  upon  a  foundation  of 
apostles  and  prophets.  In  other  words,  the  authorities  of  the  present 
day  Church  were  especially  appointed  by  the  Lord  to  represent  him 
in  these  last  days  because  he  could  not  be  here  always  in  person  any 
more  than  he  could  in  the  days  of  Paul.  Therefore,  the  Lord  spoke 
to  his  modern  authorities  in  the  same  way  in  which  he  spoke  anciently, 
and  he  said: 

And  as  I  said  unto  mine  apostles,  even  so  I  say  unto  you,  for  you  are 
mine  apostles,  even  God's  high  priests;  ye  are  they  whom  my  Father  hath 
given  me;  ye  are  my  friends.  Therefore,  as  I  said  unto  mine  apostles  I 
say  unto  you  again,  that  every  soul  who  believeth  on  your  words,  and  is 
baptized  by  water  for  the  remission  of  sins,  shall  receive  the  Holy  Ghost. 
And  these  signs  shall  follow  them  that  believe — In  my  name  they  shall  do 
many  wonderful  works:  In  my  name  they  shall  cast  out  devils;  In  my 
name  they  shall  heal  the  sick;  In  my  name  they  shall  open  the  eyes  of  the 
blind,  and  unstop  the  ears  of  the  deaf;  And  the  tongue  of  the  dumb  shall 
speak;  And  if  any  man  shall  administer  poison  unto  them  it  shall  not  hurt 
them;  And  the  poison  of  a  serpent  shall  not  have  power  to  harm  them. 
Doc.  and  Cov.  84:63-72.) 

While  speaking  in  these  last  days,  the  Lord  remembered  again 


44  "     GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

the  tendency  of  the  people  to  resist  the  living  prophets  of  God,  and  to 
persecute  them,  to  say  all  manner  of  evil  against  them  and  to  under- 
mine the  work  they  are  doing.  The  Lord  remembered  that  there  were 
people  in  his  own  day  and  in  earlier  days  who  possessed  such  a  tend- 
ency, and  he  knew  in  these  last  days  there  would  be  men  and  women 
who  would  continue  to  fight  against  the  living  prophets  of  God.  But 
he  comforted  these  modern  living  prophets  and  said  to  them,  He  that 
receiveth  you,  receiveth  me,  and  he  that  receiveth  me,  receiveth  him 
that  sent  me;  but  conversely  he  taught,  "...  Wo  unto  that  house,  or 
that  village  or  city  which  rejecteth  you,  or  your  words,  or  your  testi- 
mony concerning  me."  (Doc.  and  Gov.  84:94.) 

So  you  see,  he  placed  the  modern  authorities  of  his  Church  on 
the  same  basis  as  that  on  which  he  placed  the  ancient  authorities  of 
the  Church,  and  he  again  preached  the  doctrine  that  if  the  people  re- 
ceive you,  the  living  prophets,  whether  you  live  in  1945  or  whether 
you  live  in  A.D.  30,  "they  receive  me,  and  whosoever  rejecteth  you, 
rejecteth  me."  That  was  the  doctrine  of  the  Church  anciently.  It  is 
the  doctrine  of  the  Lord  himself  in  these  days,  and  whosoever  rejects 
or  receives  the  living  authorities  of  his  Church  rejects  or  receives  the 
Lord  himself. 

Disloyalty  to  Authority  Weakens  the  Cause 

Now,  recall  the  scripture  I  read  to  you  earlier  in  this  discussion : 
"He  that  is  not  with  me  is  against  me;  and  he  that  gathereth  not  with 
me  scattereth  abroad."  Keeping  in  mind  the  doctrine  of  the  Lord  with 
respect  to  his  servants,  that  if  we,  the  people,  reject  the  servants  of  the 
Lord,  we  reject  the  Lord,  and  that  if  we  receive  the  servants  of  God 
we  receive  God,  we  are  fully  justified  in  interpreting  this  scripture, 
that  I  have  just  read  to  you,  in  this  way:  "He  that  is  for  the  living 
prophets  of  God  is  also  for  the  Lord;  and  he  that  is  not  for  the  living 
prophets  of  God  is  against  the  Lord."  We  may  interpret  it  also  in 
this  way:  "He  that  is  loyal  to  the  living  authorities  of  the  Church  is 
loyal  to  God;  and  any  Latter-day  Saint  who  is  disloyal  to  the  authori- 
ties of  the  Church  is  disloyal  to  God."  Or  we  may  read  it  this  way 
and  still  be  within  the  truth:  "He  that  sustains  the  authorities  of  the 
Church  sustains  the  Church  and  the  Lord,  but  any  Latter-day  Saint 
who  does  not  sustain  the  authorities  of  the  Church  places  himself  in  a 
position  where  he  weakens  the  cause  of  God  instead  of  lending  it 
strength." 

Now  look  at  the  other  part  of  that  scripture.  "He  that  gathereth 
not  with  me  scattereth  abroad."  When  we  speak  of  "gathering  with" 
the  Lord,  or  assisting  him  in  gathering  in  the  souls  of  men,  gathering 
them  into  the  fold  of  Christ,  we  speak  of  an  organized  effort,  and  we 
speak  of  an  organized  program.  We  speak  of  the  fold  of  the  Church 
of  God  and  therefore,  if  we  are  "gathering  with"  him,  we  are  working 
with  him,  working  in  his  Church,  working  in  his  program,  accepting 
his  program  and  lending  our  strength  to  it. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN  45 


And  then  there  is  another  thought  in  connection  with  it,  that  if 
we  are  "gathering  with"  him  we  engage  in  a  cooperative  effort,  co- 
operation on  the  part  of  us,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  cooperating  with 
the  leaders  of  the  Church,  cooperating  with  the  Lord  in  gathering  in- 
to the  fold  of  Christ  the  souls  of  men. 

Now,  are  we  gathering  with  the  Lord,  or  are  we,  by  our  efforts, 
scattering  abroad  the  sheep  that  he  is  trying  to  gather  into  the  fold? 
Are  we  cooperating  with  the  authorities  of  the  Church,  are  we  gather- 
ing with  them;  are  we  assisting  them  in  bringing  into  the  fold  of  Christ 
the  people  the  Lord  would  save?  Are  we  gathering  with  them,  co- 
operating with  them  in  the  prosecution  of  the  program  of  the  Church, 
or  are  we  criticizing  the  authorities  of  the  Church  and  undermining 
them  and  their  efforts? 

I  call  to  your  minds  the  words  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  this 
connection: 

I  will  give  to  you  one  of  the  keys  of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom.  It  is 
an  eternal  principle  that  has  existed  with  God  from  all  eternity.  That  man 
who  rises  up  to  condemn  others,  finding  fault  with  the  Church,  saying  that 
they  are  out  of  the  way  while  he  himself  is  righteous,  then  know  assuredly 
that  that  man  is  on  the  high  road  to  apostasy,  and  if  he  does  not  repent, 
will  apostatize,  as  God  lives.  The  principle  is  as  correct  as  the  one  that 
Jesus  put  forth  in  saying  that  he  who  seeketh  a  sign  is  an  adulterous  per- 
son; and  that  principle  is  eternal,  undeviating  and  as  firm  as  the  pillars  of 
heaven. 

So  spake  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

I  ask  you  again,  my  brethren,  and  my  sisters  on  the  air,  are  you 
for  the  Lord  and  his  program  or  are  you  against  them?  Are  you  for 
the  authorities  of  the  Church  or  are  you  against  them?  Are  you  gather- 
ing with  them,  or  are  you  scattering  abroad?  Are  you  on  the  Lord's 
side? 

Who's  on  the  Lord's  side?  Who? 

Now  is  the  time  to  show; 

We  ask  it  fearlessly, 

Who's  on  the  Lord's  side?  Who? 

The  pow'r  of  earth  and  hell 
In  rage  direct  the  blow 
That's  aimed  to  crush  the  work; 
Who's  on  the  Lord's  side?  Who? 

We  serve  the  living  God; 
And  want  his  foes  to  know 
That  if  but  few,  we're  great; 
Who's  on  the  Lord's  side?  Who? 

We're  going  on  to  win, 
Nor  fear  must  blanch  the  brow; 
The  Lord  of  hosts  is  ours, 
Who's  on  the  Lord's  side?  Who? 


— H.  Cornaby 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 


There  is  an  opposition  in  all  things.  You  have  your  free  agency. 
Are  you  using  that  free  agency  to  strengthen  or  to  weaken  the  cause 
of  God?  And  if  you  are  weakening  the  cause  of  God,  I  say  to  you 
with  Joshua  of  old,  "And  if  it  seem  evil  unto  you  to  serve  the  Lord, 
choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve." 

I  earnestly  pray,  also  in  the  words  of  Joshua,  that  each  one  of  us 
will  say,  "...  as  for  me  and  my  house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord"  ( Joshua 
24: 15 ),  and  this  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

One  of  our  poets  put  into  song  form  this  sublime  thought: 

The  works  of  God  continue, 
And  worlds  and  lives  abound; 
Improvement  and  progression 
Have  one  eternal  round. 

Comfort  In  the  Scriptures 

In  this  dark  and  cloudy  day,  when,  like  the  leaves  of  the  forest, 
many  sad  tears  are  falling,  we  can  go  to  the  holy  scriptures,  those 
wells  of  salvation,  and  draw  from  them  peace  and  comfort  which  only 
Jesus  Christ  and  his  prophets  can  give. 

The  Apostle  Paul  eloquently  declared : 

Looking  unto  Jesus  the  author  and  finisher  of  our  faith;  who  for  the 
joy  that  was  set  before  him  endured  the  cross,  despising  the  shame,  and  is 
set  down  at  the  right  hand  of  the  throne  of  God.  ( Hebrews  12:2.) 

How  wonderful  it  is  to  have  a  finisher  of  our  faith.  There  are 
many  beginners  in  this  world,  but  there  are  few  finishers. 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  centuries  before  he  came  into  mortality, 
uttered  these  words.  They  are  found  in  that  treasure  house  of  knowl- 
edge, the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  are  as  follows: 

.  .  .  for  my  work  is  not  yet  finished;  neither  shall  it  be  until  the  end  of 
man,  neither  from  that  time  henceforth  and  forever.    (II  Nephi  29:9.) 

The  work  of  God  must  be  noble  and  grand.  The  Redeemer  said : 

For  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man.    (Moses  1:39.) 

I  think  that  a  Mormon  elder  who  expects  to  pass  away  his  time 
in  the  hereafter  singing  and  amusing  himself  or  resting  is  not  worth 
his  salt.  God  Almighty  is  ever  engaged  in  the  glorious  work  of 
bringing  to  pass  the  salvation  of  man. 

Faith  In  the  Promises  of  the  Lord 

I  have  faith  that  those  heroes  who  sink  in  death,  paying  the  su- 
preme sacrifice  on  the  field  of  battle — the  faithful  young  men,  trust- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


47 


ing  in  God,  shall  have  everything  made  up  to  them.  They  are  heirs 
of  the  promises;  they  shall  inherit  the  promises.  I  do  not  know  in 
what  way  God  will  provide  the  means  by  which  these  splendid  men 
shall  reach  the  celestial  kingdom  and  experience  all  the  promises  ful- 
filled in  their  lives,  but  I  have  firm  faith  in  the  Lord,  for  his  words  are 
true;  and  sometime,  somewhere,  the  power  and  the  glory  of  God  shall 
rest  upon  them;  for  the  Creator  will  finish  what  he  has  begun. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  told  a  weeping  mother,  who  had  lost  her 
baby  in  death,  that  in  the  resurrection  she  would  have  the  privilege 
of  rearing  that  baby  up  to  its  full  stature,  and  have  more  joy  in  doing 
that  than  she  could  have  had  in  mortality. 

An  eminent  divine,  nationally  known,  said  the  other  day: 

But  my  friends,  I  could  not  stand  in  this  radio  pulpit,  if  I  did  not  be- 
lieve that  the  good  God  takes  these  unfinished  lives,  with  their  unfinished 
work,  and  somewhere,  somehow,  in  his  house  of  many  mansions,  gives 
them  the  glory  of  going  on.  A  just  and  loving  Heavenly  Father  will  keep 
faith  with  those  who  keep  faith  with  him. 

•  Thus  the  glorious  light  of  heaven  is  spreading.  Heaven's  morn- 
ing, with  the  joy  and  knowledge  of  hope  and  progression  beyond  the 
grave,  is  breaking  in  upon  the  lives  of,  men.  The  notion  that  in  this 
life  only  we  have  hope  in  Christ,  we  do  not  accept,  for  "if  in  this  life 
only  we  have  hope  in  Christ,  we  are  of  all  men  most  miserable." 

Our  grief,  by  the  power  of  God,  the  Author  and  the  Finisher  of 
our  faith,  is  lifted  from  earth  to  heaven,  and  the  tears  are  wiped  away 
by  a  loving  God.  Glory,  majesty,  and  power  be  unto  Jesus  Christ,  the 
resurrection  and  the  life,  the  Author  and  the  Finisher  of  our  faith, 
forever  and  forever.    Amen.  ~ri  .' 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour," 
L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  387,  Hymn  Book  No.  378. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

,  As  I  stand  here  before  you,  I  seek  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  and  your  help  in  what  I  may  say.  First  of  all,  I  wish  to  ex- 
press my  appreciation  for  the  timely  message  that  came  this  morning 
from  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  May  the  Lord  continue  to  bless  him, 
I  am  likewise  grateful  for  the  fine  testimonies  that  we  have  heard  so 
far,  and  I  hope  the  powerful  words  spoken  by  Elder  Mark  E.  Peter- 
sen will  sink  deeply  into  our  hearts. 

Commandments  Given  for  the  Benefit  of  the  Church 

On  the  second  day  of  January,  in  the  year  1831,  the  Lord  gave 
a  revelation  to  the  Church  and  in  that  revelation  commanded  them  to 
move  from  the  headquarters  then  established  in  New  York  to  the  Ohio. 
He  gives  the  reason  for  it; 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Day 

And  that  ye  might  escape  the  power  of  the  enemy  and  be  gathered 
unto  me  a  righteous  people,  without  spot  and  blameless — Wherefore,  for 
this  cause  I  gave  unto  you  the  commandment  that  ye  should  go  to  the 
Ohio;  and  there  I  will  give  unto  you  my  law;  and  there  you  shall  be  en- 
dowed with  power  from  on  high.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  38:31-32.) 

In  obedience  to  this  commandment  the  people  moved  to  the  Ohio. 
The  law  the  Lord  gave,  spoken  of  here  in  this  promise,  is  found  in 
Section  Forty-two,  in  large  part  at  least,  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants. In  this  revelation  many  things  are  recorded  for  our  benefit.  I 
am  only  sorry  that  we  have  not  always  adhered  strictly  to  these  com- 
mandments. Of  course,  I  cannot  mention  all  of  the  things  recorded 
in  this  revelation,  for  there  are  many,  but  I  desire  to  speak  of  one  or 
two  that  were  given  for  the  benefit  of  the  Church.  First  of  all,  let  me 
say  that  when  Adam  was  driven  out  of  the  Garden  of  Eden,  the  Lord 
passed  a  sentence  upon  him.  Some  people  have  looked  upon  that  sen- 
tence as  being  a  dreadful  thing.  It  was  not;  it  was  a  blessing.  I  don't 
know  that  it  can  truthfully  be  considered  even  as  a  punishment  in  dis- 
guise. The  Lord  said  to  him:  "In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou 
eat  bread,"  and  all  down  through  the  ages  the  Lord  has  called  upon 
his  people  to  be  diligent,  to  serve  him  in  faithfulness,  to  work.  And 
here  in  verses  forty  to  forty-two  in  this  revelation  I  read : 

And  again,  thou  shalt  not  be  proud  in  thy  heart;  let  all  thy  garments 
be  plain,  and  their  beauty  the  beauty  of  the  work  of  thine  own  hands;  And 
let  all  things  be  done  in  cleanliness  before  me.  Thou  shalt  not  be  idle;  for 
he  that  is  idle  shall  not  eat  the  bread  nor  wear  the  garments  of  the  laborer. 
(Doc.  and  Cov.  42:40-42.) 

And  to  this  I  wish  to  speak. 

The  Saints  Admonished  to  Produce  What  They  Needed 

In  the  early  days  of  the  Church  in  these  valleys,  great  stress  was 
placed  upon  industry  by  President  Brigham  Young  and  the  other 
brethren,  and  it  was  necessary  because  our  forefathers  came  here  with 
nothing.  They  had  to  work.  They  had  to  be  industrious.  It  was 
essential  that  they  produce  the  things  they  needed,  and  therefore 
counsel  to  that  extent  and  in  that  direction  was  given  to  them  constant- 
ly that  they  should  be  industrious.  They  were  taught  not  to  be  proud 
in  their  hearts.  They  came  out  here  where  they  could  worship  the 
Lord  their  God  and  keep  his  commandments.  They  were  told  to  be 
humble  as  well  as  to  be  diligent.  They  were  to  make  their  own  gar- 
ments, and  they  were  to  be  plain.  Oh,  I  wish  we  could  remember  that. 
I  am  sorry  that  we  have  forgotten.  And  President  Brigham  Young, 
Heber  C.  Kimball,  and  others  of  the  brethren  in  those  early  days 
taught  the  people  and  prevailed  upon  them  to  start  industries  through- 
out this  country,  to  raise  sheep,  to  gather  the  wool,  to  make  their  own 
clothes  out  of  that  wool,  to  plant  cotton  that  they  might  have  cotton 
also  to  make  clothing,  to  plant  flax  that  they  might  get  linen,  to  build 
tanneries  that  they  might  tan  the  hides  and  make  themselves  leather, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  49 


and  a  thousand  other  things.  We  used  to  have  some  of  these  indus- 
tries here  among  us,  and  would  still  have  them  if  we  had  been  willing 
to  adhere  to  these  counsels  that  had  been  given  to  us  in  those  early 
days  by  the  authorities  of  the  Church,  which  we  would  not  do.  I  used 
to  wear  suits  that  were  made  at  Provo,  in  the  woolen  mills.  I  did  that 
as  long  as  I  could  get  them.  The  suit  I  have  on  now  was  not  made  at 
Provo,  nor  was  it  made  in  Utah — that  is  the  cloth — but  the  tailor  made 
it  here.  Last  week  at  a  stake  conference,  I  made  the  statement  that  I 
did  not  believe  there  was  in  that  building  an  individual  born  in  this 
country  who  knew  how  to  make  a  suit  of  clothes.  If  there  was  one 
there,  would  he  please  make  himself  manifest,  and  nobody  made  him- 
self manifest.  Then  I  said,  "If  there's  a  cobbler  in  this  room,  he  was 
not  born  in  this  country.  If  there  is  a  cobbler  here,  let  him  stand  up." 
Nobody  stood.  There  was  no  cobbler.   And  so  we  might  go  on. 

Now,  the  Lord  said,  "Let  all  things  be  done  in  cleanliness  before 
me."  I  could  spend  some  time  on  that,  but  time  will  not  permit;  so  I 
continue,  the  Lord  said,  "Thou  shalt  not  be  idle  for  he  that  is  idle  shall 
not  eat  the  bread,  nor  wear  the  garments  of  the  laborer."  That  is 
good  sound  sense,  isn't  it?  Why  should  a  man  in  idleness  partake  of 
the  industry  of  the  industrious — provided  that  this  man  who  is  idle,  is 
in  a  physical  condition  that  he  can  work?  I  am  not  at  all  in  sympa- 
thy with  any  kind  of  movement  that  tends  to  destroy  manhood  by  en- 
couraging men  to  be  idle,  and  I  don't  care  what  age  that  is.  It  doesn't 
matter  how  old  he  gets,  if  a  man  is  physically  strong  and  is  able  to 
perform  services,  he  should  take  care  of  himself;  that  the  Lord  expects 
him  to  do. 

The  Lord  said  in  another  revelation: 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  every  man  who  is  obliged  to 
provide  for  his  own  family,  let  him  provide,  and  he  shall  in  nowise  lose  his 
crown;  and  let  him  labor  in  the  Church.  Let  every  man  be  diligent  in  all 
things.  And  the  idler  shall  not  have  place  in  the  Church,  except  he  repent 
and  mend  his  ways.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  75:28,  29.) 

So  that  is  the  counsel  the  Lord  has  given  the  Church  today.  And 
this  is  not  merely  to  be  applied  to  plowing  fields,  or  to  reaping  and 
harvesting  and  engaging  in  industry,  but  it  means  likewise  that  a  man 
should  be  industrious  in  spiritual  things  as  well  as  in  the  temporalities 
by  which  he  makes  his  living. 

Again,  here  is  another  commandment  the  Lord  gave: 

And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  also  shall  remember  their  labors,  inas- 
much as  they  are  appointed  to  labor,  in  all  faithfulness;  for  the  idler  shall 
be  had  in  remembrance  before  the  Lord.  Now,  I,  the  Lord,  am  not  well 
pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  for  there  are  idlens  among  them;  and 
their  children  are  also  growing  up  in  wickedness;  they  also  seek  not  earn- 
estly the  riches  of  eternity,  but  their  eyes  are  full  of  greediness.  (Doc.  and 
Cov.  68:30,  31.) 

If  the  Lord  were  speaking  to  us  today,  I  wonder  if  he  would  not 
put  even  more  emphasis  upon  this  commandment. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


And  again,  the  Lord  said  of  his  servants  who  preach  the  gospel: 

...  I  give  unto  them  a  commandment,  thus:  Thou  shalt  not  idle  away 
thy  time,  neither  shalt  thou  bury  thy  talent  that  it  may  not  be  known. 
(Doc.  and  Cov.  60:13.) 

And  that  means  whatever  that  talent  may  be,  the  man  should  not  bury 
it.  If  he  is  a  mechanic,  if  he  is  skilled  in  some  other  direction,  if  he 
has  the  power  and  ability  to  preach  the  gospel,  whatever  it  is,  the  Lord 
expects  him  to  use  that  talent  in  His  service. 


There  should  be  no  idlers  in  Zion.  Even  the  poor  who  have  to  be  assist- 
ed should  be  willing  to  do  all  in  their  power  to  earn  their  own  living.  Not  one 
man  or  woman  should  be  content  to  sit  down  and  be  fed,  clothed,  or  housed 
without  an  exertion  on  his  or  her  part  to  compensate  for  these  privileges. 
All  men  and  women  should  feel  a  degree  of  independence  of  character  that 
would  stimulate  them  to  do  something  for  a  living  and  not  be  idle;  for  it 
is  written  that  the  idler  shall  not  eat  the  bread  of  the  laborer  in  Zion,  and 
he  shall  not  have  place  among  us.  Therefore,  it  is  necessary  that  we 
should  be  industrious,  that  we  should  intelligently  apply  our  labor  to  some- 
thing that  is  productive  and  conducive  to  the  welfare  of  the  human  family. 
(Gospel  Doctrine,  pp.  235,  236.) 

And  then,  President  Brigham  Young,  out  of  all  the  many  things 
that  he  has  said,  let  me  present  this: 

We  want  you  henceforth  to  be  a  self-sustaining  people.  Hear  it,  O 
Israel!  hear  it,  neighbors,  friends  and  enemies,  this  is  what  the  Lord  re- 
quires of  this  people.  .  .  .  Ye  Latter-day  Saints  learn  to  sustain  yourselves, 
produce  everything  you  need  to  eat,  drink  or  wear;  and  if  you  cannot  ob- 
tain all  you  wish  for  today,  learn  to  do  without  that  which  you  cannot 
purchase  and  pay  for;  and  bring  your  minds  into  subjection  that  you  must 
live  within  your  means.  .  .  .  Who  are  deserving  of  praise?  The  persons 
who  take  care  of  themselves  or  the  ones  who  always  trust  in  the  great 
mercies  of  the  Lord  to  take  care  of  them?  It  is  just  as  consistent  to  expect 
that  the  Lord  will  supply  us  with  fruit  when  we  do  not  plant  the  trees;  or 
that  when  we  do  not  plow  and  sow  and  are  saved  the  labor  of  harvesting, 
we  should  cry  to  the  Lord  to  save  us  from  want,  -as  to  ask  him  to  save  us 
from  the  consequences  of  our  own  folly,  disobedience  and  waste.  .  .  . 

Brethren,  learn.  You  have  learned  a  good  deal,  it  is  true,  but  learn 
more;  learn  to  sustain  yourselves;  lay  up  grain  and  flour  and  save  it  against 
a  day  of  scarcity.  Sisters,  do  not  ask  your  husbands  to  sell  the  last  bushel 
of  grain  you  have  to  buy  something  for  you  out  of  the  stores,  but  aid  your 
husbands  in  storing  it  up  against  a  day  of  want,  and  always  have  a  year's 
or  two,  provision  on  hand.  (Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  p.  293.) 

I  hope  the  time  will  come  when  we  will  not  feel  restricted  and 
will  be  able  to  lay  up  in  store  for  a  year  or  two  in  advance.  The  Lord 
bless  you,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Advice  From  Leaders  of  the  Church 


Let  me  present  a  statement  here  from  President  Joseph  F.  Smith : 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


51 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  o[  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren,  we  have  just  listened  to  what  may  be  termed  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  a  practical  application. .  We  have  been  told 
what  it  means  to  work  and  what  the  Lord  expects  us  to  do,  and  this 
brings  to  mind  the  fact  that  our  forebears  who  came  here  learned 
well  those  principles  and  had  it  not  been  for  the  fact  that  they  did 
work  and  they  did  struggle  we  would  not  have  the  commonwealth 
that  we  have  here,  nor  would  we  have  the  foundation  of  faith  that 
is  a  part  of  this  great  work.  It  wasn't  in  luxury.  It  wasn't  in  idle- 
ness that  was  made  possible  what  we  have,  but  it  was  in  poverty 
and  in  hard  work  and  in  struggle,  and  these  experiences,  my  breth- 
ren, and  those  who  are  listening,  contributed  to  other  things.  They 
contributed  to  a  richness  of  faith.  Somehow  or  other  the  Lord  has 
seen  fit,  or  the  human  makeup  is  such,  that  it  is  in  adversity  and  sor- 
row that  we  grow. 

General  McAlexander's  View  of  War 

At  the  close  of  the  first  world  war  there  was  stationed  here  at 
Fort  Douglas  the  thirty-eighth  infantry  that  is  credited  with  having 
stopped  the  second  battle  of  the  Marne  in  World  War  I.  The 
commanding  officer  who  had  been  a  colonel  in  the  infantry,  was  then 
General  Ulysses  G.  McAlexander.  While  stationed  here,  the  gen- 
eral became  a  friend  of  both  President  Ivins  and  President  Grant. 
Years  later  he  was  retired  and  moved  to  the  Northwest,  where  his 
wife  passed  away.  He  subsequently  married  again  and  coming  back 
here  to  Salt  Lake  City  with  his  wife,  renewed  his  acquaintance  and 
friendship  with  these  two  churchmen.  On  one  occasion  President 
Grant  drove  the  general  down  to  the  stake  where  I  reside  and  we 
had  the  privilege  of  hearing  him  speak  in  one  of  our  school  assem- 
blies. He  had  a  very  vital  message  to  deliver,  and  after  his  speaking 
there,  we  invited  him  to  speak  in  one  of  our  stake  union  meetings 
where  the  general  told  of  his  experiences  in  the  second  battle  of  the 
Marne,  and  then  he  gave  his  reaction  to  war.  At  the  close  of  the 
talk,  one  of  our  brethren  went  up  to  him  and  very  frankly  said,  "Gen- 
eral, do  you  not  think  this  a  very  cruel  message  to  be  giving  in  a  re- 
ligious meeting?"  His  answer  was  very  significant.  "Brother  Booth" 
— he  had  met  him  a  few  hours  before — "I  want  to  impress,  if  pos- 
sible, upon  you  people  one  fundamental  thing,  as  I  would  like  to  im- 
press it  upon  all  the  world,  and  that  is  that  war  is  a  terrible,  cruel 
monster,  and  whenever  .we  speak  of  it  and  whenever  we  deal  with  it, 
we  speak  and  deal  with  terrible  things.  Until  the  human  family  be- 
comes conscious  of  the  tragedy  and  the  sorrow  and  the  terribleness 
of  war  we'll  always  have  war.  You  church  people,"  he  said,  "have 
a  very  vital  message  and  mission;  namely,  to  try  to  teach  the  prin- 
ciples of.  righteousness  in  the  hearts  of  your  people  and  in  the  hearts 
of  mankind,  that  war  may  be  no  more." 


52 

Friday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


I  have  never  forgotten  that,  my  brethren,  and  it  seems  to  me 
that  that,  after  all,  is  one  of  the  lessons  that  we  need  to  learn.  If  we 
can  bring  again  righteousness  into  the  hearts  of  the  people,  we  will 
be  able  to  outlaw  war,  and  the  terribleness  and  the  tragedy  of  it  will 
be  no  more,  but  we  can  not  do  it  until  we  put  into  practical  applica- 
tion some  of  the  teachings  we  have  heard  here  today. 

The  Gospel  A  Help  Under  Every  Condition 

We  are  a  practical  people;  we  need  to  till  the  soil;  we  need  to 
make  a  living;  we  need  to  deal  with  the  physical  things  of  life  just  as 
our  forebears  did,  for  they  did  a  magnificent  job  in  assimilating  the 
two  aspects -of  man's  nature.  They  understood  how  to  harmonize 
the  physical  with  the  spiritual,  and  in  their  great  faith  they  were  able 
to  bring  a  harmony  out  of  seeming  chaos.  God  grant  that  we  may 
be  able  to  do  that,  that  we  may  outlaw  hatred  and  animosity  and  so 
live  that  the  spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father  will  be  a  part  of  us. 

Someone  the  other  day,  someone  who  had  had  great  sorrow  be- 
cause of  this  war,  raised  this  question,  "What  has  the  Church  to 
offer  in  times  like  these  when  it  seems  the  very  props  are  taken  from 
under  us?"  Well,  the  Church  has  all  of  these  practical  things,  and 
it  has  more.  It  brings  to  you  and  me  faith  and  hope.  When  the 
shepherds  stood  on  those  Palestine  hills,  they  heard  the  voices  of 
the  angels  declaring  the  event  of  the  new-born  Babe,  "Behold  .  .  . 
[there  is]  born  this  day  in  the  city  of.  David  a  Saviour,  which  is 
Christ  the  Lord."  (Luke  2:10-11.)  Good  tidings  of  great  joy  they 
were  told,  which  were  to  be  for  all  people.  It  wasn't  merely  the 
event  of  the  Babe  of  Bethlehem,  but  it  was  the  ushering  in  of  the  mes- 
sage of  eternal  truth  that  was  to  bring  comfort  and  joy  through  the 
living  of  the  precepts  that  he  was  to  teach.  That  was  the  message 
that  was  to  bring  joy  to  the  human  heart. 

When  Paul  stood  before  King  Agrippa  he  declared  his  conver- 
sion and  told  of  the  appearance  of  Jesus  Christ  to  him  in  midday, 
and  King  Agrippa  being  touched  in  his  heart,  turned  to  Paul  and  said, 
"Almost  thou  persuadest  me  to  be  a  Christian."  (Acts  26:28.)  "And 
Paul  said,  I  would  to  God,  that  not  only  thou,  but  also  all  that  hear 
me  this  day,  were  both  almost,  and  altogether  such  as  I  am,  except 
these  bonds-."  (Ibid.  29.)  He  knew  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ;  he 
had  in  his  heart  and  soul  what  this  testimony  and  the  gospel  does  for 
us  in  times  of  trial  and  adversity.  The  Prophet  Joseph  came  in  this 
day  and  brought  the  same  message,  a  message  that  has  come  through 
sorrow,  privation  and  tribulation,  and  yet  it  brings  the  same  good  tid- 
ings of  great  joy  that  were  sung  by  the  shepherds  two  thousand  years 
ago.  It  is  the  translating  into  our  lives,  my  brethren,  not  only  these 
practical  things,  but  it  is  also  a  stimulating  of  the  faith  that  comes 
from  God,  our  Eternal  Father,  through  faithful  service  to  his  cause. 
The  lovely  thing  about  the  Church  to  which  you  and  I  belong  is  that 
it  permits  of  the  application  of  these  two,  the  practical  with  the  spirit- 
ual, and  thus  we  grow  and  become  strong. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  53 


May  the  Lord  help  us  that  we  may  appreciate  in  our  everyday 
affairs  the  counsel  given  in  this  conference.  May  we  appreciate  the 
great  message  of  peace  that  comes  into  our  hearts  even  in  time  of  sor- 
row, and  may  we  have  the  power  through  living  these  eternal  truths 
ultimately  to  do  away  with  unrighteousness,  so  that  war  may  be  no 
more.    God  bless  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

A  part  of  the  obligation  of  the  presiding  officer  at  these  con- 
ferences is  that  he  shall  take  his  turn  in  speaking  to  the  people.  For 
that  reason  I  wish  to  fulfill  my  duty  and  try  to  say  something  to  you 
that  may  be  helpful  and  encouraging  and  to  the  furtherance  of  the 
cause  of  the  Lord.  I  sincerely  trust  that  while  I  speak  I  shall  have 
with  me  the  benefit  of  that  spirit  which  has  been  poured  out  in  such 
rich  abundance  upon  us  today.  So  many  themes  have  been  touched, 
that  we  might  further  discuss  that  it  is  a  bit  difficult  to  know  what  one 
might  most  profitably  do. 

The  Golden  Rule  A  Safe  Guide  For  Mankind 

To  the  man  who  says,  what  has  the  Church  to  offer,  in  times  like 
these,  we  might  perhaps,  without  being  too  cruel,  say:  what  is  to  be 
offered  to  the  man  who  jumps  off  the  house  and  breaks  his  leg.  Well, 
we  can  mend  his  leg,  but  it  will  always  be  a  mended  leg;  but  we  have 
also  to  offer  to  the  man  the  advice,  do  not  jump  off  the  house  again. 

And  so  to  this  war-torn  world,  war-torn  from  the  beginning,  we 
have  to  say  to  such  a  questioner:  What  has  the  Church  to  offer?  The 
Church  has  to  offer  to  you,  and  to  the  world,  and  has  offered  to  you 
and  to  the  world  the  principles  that  had  they  been  accepted  would 
have  made  this  war  impossible,  and  that  if  now  accepted  will  make  a 
recurrence  of  war  impossible.  We  bring  you  that  message,  the  mes- 
sage of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  restored  in  this  day  and  age  of  the 
world.  Do  unto  others  as  thou  wouldst  be  done  by  contains  the  rule 
which  ought  to  guide  us  as  members  of  a  community  and  as  one  of  the 
family  of  nations. 

God  Will  Pass  Sentence  Upon  the  Guilty 

In  these  days  of  terrible  trial  and  stress  the  question  is  frequently 
repeated  by  those  who  lose  their  dear  ones  under  circumstances  that 
ten  years  ago  were  not  believed  possible.  These  dear  ones  sometimes 
write  and  say:  I  hope  that  God  will  forgive  me  for  the  things  I  am 
having  to  do.  The  parents  want  to  know  what  is  the  answer  to  that 
fear.  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  what  the  First  Presidency  said  on 
April  6,  1942,  four  months  after  the  attack  at  Pearl  Harbor. 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Dag 

In  this  terrible  war  now  waging  thousands  of  our  righteous  young  men 
in  all  parts  of  the  world  and  in  many  countries  are  subject  to  a  call  into 
the  military  service  of  their  own  countries.  Some  of  these,  so  serving, 
have  already  been  called  back  to  their  heavenly  home;  others  will  almost 
surely  be  called  to  follow.  But  "behold,"  as  Moroni  said,  the  righteous  of 
them  who  serve  and  are  slain  "do  enter  into  the  rest  of  the  Lord  their 
God,"  and  of  them  the  Lord  has  said  "those  that  die  in  me  shall  not  taste 
of  death,  for  it  shall  be  sweet  unto  them."  (Doc.  and  Cov.  42:46.)  Their 
salvation  and  exaltation  in  the  world  to  come  will  be  secure.  That  in 
their  work  of  destruction  they  will  be  striking  at  their  brethren  will  not  be 
held  against  them.  That  sin,  as  Moroni  of  old  said,  is  to  the  condemna- 
tion of  those  who  "sit  in  their  places  of  power  in  a  state  of  thoughtless 
stupor,"  those  rulers  in  the  world  who  in  a  frenzy  of  hate  and  lust  for 
unrighteous  power  and  dominion  over  their  fellow  men,  have  put  into  mo- 
tion eternal  forces  they  do  not  comprehend  and  cannot  control.  God,  in 
his  own  due  time,  will  pass  sentence  upon  them.  "Vengeance  is  mine;  I 
will  repay  saith  the  Lord."  (Romans  12:19.) 

I  have  no  doubt  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  theme  developed  by 
Brother  Callis,  that  those  who  die  as  described  by  Moroni,  will  not 
be  held  guilty  of  the  death  of  their  brethren,  and  they  will  have  the 
opportunity  to  go  on  to  salvation  and  exaltation  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom. 

Planning  For  the  Return  of  the  Soldiers 

I  would  like  to  say  a  word  about  the  returning  soldier,  that  being 
a  question  about  which  we  all  talk  and  hear  so  much.  I  said  some- 
thing about  postwar  planning  at  the  last  conference  and  pointed  out 
that  we  could  and  should  plan  to  bring  our  soldiers  back  to  homes  of 
purity,  chastity,  and  of  righteousness,  and  that  it  took  no  worldly  po- 
sition, no  wealth  to  carry  on  that  postwar  planning.  I  want  to  add 
just  a  word  along  that  line  today. 

These  boys  out  in  the  field  have  placed  before  them  constantly, 
achievements  and  the  value  of  achievement  in  the  destruction  of  hu- 
man life.  The  thing  for  which  they  now  receive  praise,  the  things  for 
which  they  work  to  get  commendation,  are  unknown  to  us  in  our  lives 
of  peace.  When  they  return  they  will  bring  back  with  them,  of  neces- 
sity, something  of  those  urges  that  led  them  to  their  achievements,' 
and  we  are  going  to  be  cold,  however  warm  we  try  to  be,  to  those 
achievements,  which  do  not  fit  in  with  the  gospel,  nor  with  our  meth- 
ods of  life. 

To  bridge  over  the  time  when  they  return  as  heroes  for  achieve- 
ments in  war,  until  they  may  resume  their  peacetime  occupations  and 
become  heroes  in  peace  and  in  peaceful  occupations,  to  bridge  that 
over  is  one  of  the  tasks  we  shall  have  to  undertake  and  to  which  we 
must  give  our  best  effort  and  best  thought.  I  am  not  thinking  of  the 
temporal  side  of  the  bridge-over,  I  am  thinking  of  the  spiritual  side, 
and  what  that  means;  and  in  that  connection  it  seems  to  me  that  they 
who  are  to  play  the  greatest  part  are  the  mothers,  the  wives,  and  the 
sweethearts  of  those  who  return. 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  55 
The  Responsibility  of  the  Women 

When  all  is  said  and  done  it  will  be  our  sisters  who  must  take 
on  that  great  load  and  that  tremendous  responsibility.  Radio  pro- 
grams, magazines,  and  newspaper  columns  are  more  and  more  filling 
with  instructions  about  how  to  treat  our  returning  soldiers.  All  the 
deductions  of  modern  psychology,  and  its  kindred  mental  sciences  are 
paraded  for  the  guidance  of  the  wives,  the  mothers,  the  sweethearts, 
in  meeting,  winning,  and  holding  the  boy  back  from  the  war.  But  I 
would  not  exchange  the  unerring,  inspired  instinct  of  a  good  woman, 
fired  with  mother  love,  or  wife  love,  or  the  love  of  a  loyal,  chaste 
sweetheart,  for  all  that  men  have  ever  written.  The  boys  say  they 
do  not  wish  to  be  regarded  as  problem  children.  They  want  to  get 
home  and  enter  again  the  family  circle,  and  in  its  sacred  precincts 
again  to  take  up  life  and  forget  hate,  carnage,  and  death.  I  believe 
their  cry  will  be,  "Let  us  live  again  in  love";  and  you  mothers,  wives, 
and  sweethearts  can  bring  to  them  this  blessing.  None  other  can.  So 
in  this  crisis  we  turn  to  the  women  of  the  earth  to  save  them  and  to 
save  us  men  from  ourselves.  So  it  has  been,  in  reality,  in  every  great 
world  crisis,  however  much  it  may  have  seemed  otherwise.  Yours, 
you  sisters,  has  been  the  loyalty  that  has  never  wanted;  your  courage 
has  not  failed,  has  not  been  daunted,  whatever  the  odds.  You  have 
often  recognized  a  lost  cause  long  before  your  men  folks;  you  fre- 
quently have  seen  victory  long  before  it  came  within  the  vision  of 
those  who  battled.  Your  joy  and  tenderness  and  fortitude  have  suc- 
cored the  wounded  and  eased  the  passing  of  those  who  are  called 
beyond.  You  never  fail  in  kindness  and  mercy;  your  love  endures 
forever.  May  God  bless  you,  for  you  are  angels  of  mercy.  So,  you 
mothers,  wives,  sweethearts,  take  into  the  sacred  precincts  of  your 
heart  around  the  altars  of  your  homes  these  souls  wounded  in  body, 
in  mind,  in  spirit,  and  heal  them  as  you  alone  can. 

The  Leaders  of  the  Church  Inspired  of  God 

I  had  intended  to  say  something,  but  my  time  is  past,  along  the 
line  that  Elder  Petersen  spoke.  He  used  even  the  scriptures  that  I 
had  intended  using;  but  I  would  like  to  endorse  all  that  he  said,  and  I 
would  like  to  say  to  the  priesthood  of  the  Church,  among  whom  there 
are  many  who  are  steadiers  of  the  ark — please  do  not  be  too  much 
concerned.  The  Lord  will  take  care  of  the  Church,  if,  we  shall  but 
take  care  of  ourselves.  He  has  laid  down  the  appointed  way;  he  is 
the  he^ad  of  the  Church.  President  Grant  is  his  representative  on 
earth.    The  Lord  declares  his  will  through  his  representative  here. 

There  is  much  talk  nowadays  about  democracy.  I  do  not  know 
of  any  democracy  in  the  world.  There  are  liberal  monarchies,  and 
there  are  republics.  We  are  democratic  in  our  concepts  of  the  Church, 
but  we  are  not  a  democracy;  we  are  a  kingdom,  the  Church  and  king- 
dom of  God  on  earth;  and  our  guidance  and  our  direction  comes  and 
must  come  through  the  head  of  the  Church,  who  always  has  been 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  Apri[  7  Second  Day 

possessed  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  of  his  inspiration,  and  his  rev- 
elation.   So  it  will  always  be. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  said  to  President  Grant,  shortly  before 
President  Smith  died,  "the  Lord  knows  whom  he  wants  to  be  presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  and  he  never  makes  a  mistake."  The  Lord  has 
laid  .down  the  rule  and  the  regulation  by  which  that  president  of  the 
Church  is  chosen. 

It  is  for  us  of  the  priesthood  and  for  us  the  members  of.  the  Church 
to  hearken  and  to  obey  in  matters  which  the  president  of  the  Church 
directs,  and  to  see  to  it  that  we  do  not  modify  in  any  way  the  holy  laws 
which  the  Lord  has  laid  down.  God  grant  that  we  may  all  be  faithful 
to  the  end,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  Clark: 

The  congregation  will  now  sing  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day 
of  Salvation."  Song  Folder  No.  6,  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  218,  Hymn 
Book  No.  182. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Wesley  E.  Ting- 
ey  of  the  South  Davis  Stake,  after  which  this  conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  10  o'clock  tomorrow  morning,  Saturday,  April  7,  1945. 
The  proceedings  of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  KSUB  at  Cedar  City. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day 
of  Salvation." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Wesley  E.  Tingey 
of  the  South  Davis  Stake,  after  which  Conference  adjourned  until 
Saturday  morning,  April  7,  at  10  a.m. 

.  SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  promptly  at  10  o'clock,  a.m.,  Saturday 
morning,  April  7. 

President  Clark: 

This  is  the  third  session  of  the  1 15th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  convened  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  morning  all  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  as  sustained  yesterday,  except  President 
Grant,  who  is  able  to  listen  to  the  services  over  a  direct  wire  from  the 
Assembly  Hall  to  his  home. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  KSUB  at  Cedar  City. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


57 


We  will  begin  the  morning  services  by  the  congregation  singing, 
"Lord,  Accept  Our  True  Devotion,"  two  verses,  Song  Folder  No.  43. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  is  conducting  the  singing;  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Edward  E. 
Drury,  Jr.,  of  the  Denver  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Lord,  Accept  Our  True  Devo- 
tion." 

Elder  Edward  E.  Drury,  Jr.,  President  of  the  Denver  Stake,  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Sweet  is  the  Work,  My  God, 
My  King,"  L.D.S.  Hymns,  No.  91,  Hymn  Book  No.  121. 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  beloved  brethren  here  and  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  radio 
audience:    It  is  a  great  privilege  and  inspiration  to  be  here  in  this 
conference  of  the  Church  of  our  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  May  the  peace  of 
heaven  be  with,  you  and  us. 
• 

The  Advice  of  A  Brahman  To  A  Mother 

A  woman  in  the  Far  East  who  had  lost  her  boy  went  to  the 
Brahman  and  said:  "You  must  give  me  back  my  boy,  you  must,  you 
must."  The  Brahman  with  calm  dignity  said  to  her:  "Come,  daugh- 
ter, you  must  go  out  and  get  the  leaves  of.  a  plant  (which  was  as  com- 
mon as  the  commonest  weeds  with  us )  and  make  a  tea  of  the  leaves, 
and  drink  the  tea,  and  I  will  give  you  back  your  boy.  But  the  leaves 
must  be  gathered  from  the  dooryard  of  a  family  that  has  never 
known  sorrow." 

The  woman  traveled  from  village  to  village,  and  from  province 
to  province,  and  finally  heartsore  and  footsore,  she  returned  to  her 
leader  saying:  "Father,  I  have  traveled  all  over  the  land,  but  I  cannot 
find  one  home  where  sorrow  has  not  been."  She  had  returned,  not 
to  get  her  son  back,  but  to  be  content  with  her  lot. 

Yesterday  we  were  told  in  conference  that  about  nine  hundred 
of  our  stalwart  sons  had  been  sacrificed  in  this  diabolical  world  holo- 
caust. It  has  seemed  to  me  even  more  than  that,  for  as  I  have  gone 
about  the  Church  I  have  been  confronted  with  such  sorrow  in  all 
parts  of  the  country. 

These  tragic  stories  of  sons  killed  in  the  training  fields  and 
theatres  of  war  have  not  been  limited  to  any  individual,  or  locality, 
but  everywhere  our  relatives  and  friends  weep  in  their  loneliness 
and  sorrow. 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Day 

A  Letter  Written  To  A  Sorrowing  Mother 

■ 

May  I  read  to  you  a  letter  which  I  wrote  sometime  ago  to  a 
mother  of  my  acquaintance  whose  son  had  just  been  killed  in  battle? 
I  do  earnestly  pray  that  some  thought  contained  therein  might  have 
brought  to  her  and  may  bring  to  others  a  bit  of  hope  and  comfort 
and  courage. 

Dear  Sister  : 

Very  recently  I  have  been  entertained  in  the  homes  of  parents 
who  have  lost  young  sons,  still  in  their  teens  and  early  twenties;  sons 
who  were  as  clean  and  sweet  in  their  lives  as  their  mothers;  sons 
who  had  ability  and  had  developed  their  talents  and  possessed  also 
the  spirit  and  desire  to  use  them  for  the  advancement  of  the  work 
of  the  Lord.   It  has  caused  me  to  ponder  deeply. 

One  particular  mother  who  poured  out  her  soul  to  me  was  in- 
clined to  be  bitter.    She  said: 

Why  would  the  Lord  take  my  son  from  me?  Why  didn't  the  Lord 
answer  my  prayers  and  save  him?  I  know  my  son  has  remained  clean; 
why  should  he  be  taken?  Not  only  he,  but  the  entire  family  has  always 
been  faithful;  why  is  our  worthiness  not  recognized?  Why  should  he  die 
so  young  when  he  was  so  righteous? 

Well,  you  know  the  responsibility  I  felt  in  attempting  to  an- 
swer her.  With  all  my  soul  I  prayed  that  the  Father  would  help 
me  to  bring  her  comfort. 

As  I  sat  in  meditation  my  mind  went  back  to  a  little  hill,  far 
away,  on  which  were  silhouetted  against  the  deepening  shadows  of  a 
black,  tragic  day,  three  crosses  on  which  were  human  beings  writh- 
ing in  the  agonies  of  death,  and  the  central  One  cried  out: 

My  God,  my  God,  why  hast  thou  forsaken  me!  (Matt.  27:46.) 

And  I  seem  to  see  at  the  foot  of  the  heavy  cross  the  crouching 
figure' of  a  mother  torn  in  agony,  saying: 

Why  should  he  die?  So  young,  so  pure,  so  able  to  teach  the  world 
a  better  way?   Why,  oh,  why? 

Then  I  seem  to  see  another  more  modern  picture  of  a  mother 
grief-stricken,  watching  the  approaching  caravan  which  was  bring- 
ing two  beloved  sons  home  from  a  foul  martyrdom  in  a  jail  some  dis- 
tance away,  and  I  can  almost  hear  her  through  her  sobs: 

Why  should  they  be  killed?  Why  should  they  be  taken  from  the  in- 
fant Church  which  needs  them  so  much?  Why  must  they  die,  so  young, 
so  pure,  so  strong? 

Then  I  realize  that  God  does  not  take'  these  lives.  It  is  per- 
mitted because  men  have  their  free  agency. 

Woe  unto  the  world  because  of  offences!  for  it  must  needs  be  that 
offences  come;  but  Woe  to  that  man  by  whom  the  offence  cometh!  (Matt. 
18:7.) 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


59 


Was  there  frustration  in  the  martyrdom  of  Joseph  Smith?  Jo- 
seph was  protected  and  his  life  saved  in  every  instance  of  persecu- 
tion until  his  work  was  finished  and  he  had  done  his  part  in  the  res- 
toration of  the  gospel  and  the  priesthood  and  all  other  keys  of  the 
dispensation,  and  until  the  organization  of  the  kingdom  was  effected. 
He  could  not  be  killed  before  that  time,  though  all  hell  raged  against 
him.  He  wanted  to  live.  Life  was  sweet  to  him.  It  held  promise  of 
sweet  associations  with  his  family,  his  brethren,  and  the  satisfaction 
of  seeing  the  work  blossom  into  a  full-blown  flower.  But  his  work 
was  done;  other  strong  leaders  could  now  carry  on;  he  was  needed 
in  other  fields.  Only  in  his  thirties,  a  very  young  man,  he  died,  and 
commenced  his  work  in  other  realms. 

Was  there  defeat  in  the  crucifixion  of  Jesus  the  Christ?  If  so, 
all  creation  were  doomed  and  man  would  have  remained  in  sin.  If 
so,  the  crucifixion  would  not  have  taken  place  until  a  later  date — 
until  his  hour  had  come.  His  life  was  not  taken  from  him — he  gave 
his  life.   To  Peter,  whoi  smote  off  the  ear  of  one  of  the  mob,  he  said : 

.  .  .  the  cup  which  my  Father  hath  given  me,  shall  I  not  drink  it?  (John 
18:11)  and  thinkest  thou  that  I  cannot  now  pray  to  my  Father,  and  he 
shall  presently  give  me  more  than  twelve  legions  of  angels?  (Matt. 
26:53.) 

He  was  young,  only  33.  He  loved  life  also.  He  wanted  to  live 
for  the  richness  that  he  could  see  in  it — his  friends,  his  growing  king- 
dom, his  brethren,  his  mother.  Life  was  sweet  to  him.  Did  he  not 
pray  in  Gethsemane: 

.  .  .  O  my  Father,  if  it  be  possible,  let  this  cup  pass  from  me;  never- 
theless not  as  I  will,  but  as  thou  wilt.  (Matt.  26:39.) 

Then  as  the  time  passed,  and  no  positive  answer  came  to  his 
supplication,  he  cried  out  again  in  his  torture: 

O  my  Father,  if  this  cup  may  not  pass  away  from  me,  except  I  drink 
it,  thy  will  be  done.  (Matt.  26:42.) 

In  the  first  prayer  he  still  seemed  to  have  a  glimmer  of  hope  that 
something  could  be  done  about  it,  but  in  the  latter  it  seemed  to  have 
been  definitely  settled  in  his  mind  that  no  adjustment  could  be  made, 
and  in  order  that  the  purposes  of  God  might  not  fail  he  must  drink 
the  bitter  cup. 

He  was  taken  from  his  mother,  though  it  broke  her  heart.  His 
prayer,  perhaps  the  most  sincere  and  worthy  ever  uttered,  was  not 
answered  as  she  would  have  had  it.  His  was  the  perfect  life,  clean, 
guileless,  divine,  and  yet  he  passed.  His  mother  was  devout  as  also 
were  some  of  his  people,  yet  his  life  ebbed.  He  was  young  and  had 
not  had  time  to  establish  himself  in  life.  His  first  thirty  years  were 
spent  in  preparation;  his  next  three  years  in  originating  and  develop- 
ing his  program,  and  now  when  he  could  have  turned  over  to  his 
followers  much  of  the  detail  of  the  work,  and  could  have  perhaps 


60 

Saturday,  April  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


'  enjoyed  family  and  other  associations,  he  was  crucified.  Why? 
There  was  a  definite  reason.  Being  divine  and  mortal,  he  had  a 
work  to  do  which  could  not  be  done  in  mortality,  which  required  his 
transfer  to  other  spheres  of  activity.  Was  his  work  frustrated?  It 
did  leave  a  sorrowing  mother.  There  were  brethren  who  were 
numbed.  There  were  perhaps  many  loved  ones  who  doubted  and 
questioned.  But  in  his  death,  and  in  his  resurrection,  came  a  boon 
to  mankind  that  only  this  Son  of  God  could  bring.  Would  we  have 
had  indifferent?  Would  we  have  saved  his  life,  if  we  could,  now 
that  we  know  that  he  through  this  very  circumstance  brought  re- 
demption to  the  world?  Would  his  agonized  mother  today  have  it 
otherwise  as  she  looks  back  on  the  entire  program?  Would  the 
apostles  on  whom  the  burden  of  the  kingdom  fell  have  it  otherwise? 

And  I  am  sure  that  the  thousands  of  our  Latter-day  Saint  moth- 
ers, who  like  Mary,  the  mother  of  the  Lord,  today  stand  grieving 
helplessly  at  the  foot  of  a  heavy  cross,  shall  come  in  time  to  see 
clearly  and  may  even  bless  the  day  when  their  clean,  talented,  stal- 
wart sons  went  forward  into  other  spheres. 

In  death  do  we  grieve  for  the  one  who  passes  on,  or  is  it  self- 
pity?  To  doubt  the  wisdom  and  justice  of  the  passing  of  a  loved  one 
is  to  place  a  limitation  on  the  term  of  life.  It  is  to  say  that  it  is  more 
important  to  continue  to  live  here  than  to  go  into  other  fields.  Do  we 
grieve  when  our  son  is  graduated  from  the  local  high  school  and  is 
sent  away  from  home  to  a  university  of  higher  learning?  Do  we 
grieve  inconsolably  when  our  son  is  called  away  from  our  daily  em- 
brace to  distant  lands  to  preach  the  gospel?  To  continue  to  grieve 
without  faith  and  understanding  and  trust  when  a  son  goes  into  an- 
other world  is  to  question  the  long-range  program  of  God,  life  etern- 
al with  all  its  opportunities  and  blessings. 

God  is  good,  so  good  in  fact  that  we  can  hardly  conceive  the 
depth  and  richness  of  his  goodness.  He  is  just;  so  just  that  we 
mortals  cannot  comprehend  the  fairness  of  his  justice.  I  am  sure  that 
no  mortal  will  ever  fail  to  receive  every  blessing  and  glory  which  he 
merits.  Mortal  death  cannot  rob  him.  There  will  be  a  way,  and 
every  promise  of  God  will  be  fulfilled.  A  virtuous,  progressive,  ac- 
tive young  man  will  sacrifice  no  blessing  to  which  he  was  entitled  by 
his  (to  us)  premature  passing  into  eternity.  We  may  not  under- 
stand fully  just  how  it  will  be  accomplished,  but  we  may  know  that 
it  will  be.    Remember  what  the  Lord  himself  said: 

.  .  .  Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  entered  into  the 
heart  of  man,  the  things  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love 
him.  (I  Cor.  2:9.) 

Can  we  not  trust  in  the  goodness  of  the  Lord?  Remember  that 
he  is  the  Father  also  of  this  son.  He  is  the  Parent  of  the  living  part, 
you  of  the  tabernacle  only.  Will  he  not  be  infinitely  more  concerned 
with  the  welfare  of  this  son  than  we  mortals  could  ever  be?  Can  we 
not  know  this:    "His  purposes  fail  not,  neither  are  there  any  that  can 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


61 


stay  his  hand"?  There  is  no  tragedy  except  in  sin.  Let  us  know 
therefore  that  life  is  eternal,  and  that  God  doeth  all  things  well;  and 
this  righteous  son,  the  offspring  of  God,  was  not  born  for  a  day,  a 
decade,  or  a  century,  but  for  eternity.  Only  his  own  lack  of  right- 
eousness could  ever  deprive  him  of  any  blessing  promised  by  the 
Lord.  "Thy  Son  liveth"  and  continues  to  radiate  life,  not  death; 
light,  not  darkness;  commencement,  not  termination;  assurance,  not 
uncertainty;  joy  eternal,  not  sorrow;  sweetness,  not  bitterness; 
youthful  maturity,  not  senility;  progress,  not  stoppage;  sunshine,  not 
clouds;  clearness  of  vision,  not  confusion  and  dimness;  fulfilment,  not 
frustration;  an  open  gate  with  light  ahead,  not  barred  windows  with 
darkness  beyond. 

May  our  Heavenly  Father  bring  his  peace  to  all  of.  you  who  are 
now  passing  through  your  Garden  of  Gethsemane. 

Sincerely  your  brother, 

Spencer  W.  Kimball 

ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren,  as  I  look  into  your  faces  I  endeavor  to  place  you. 
I  have  visited  half  of  the  stakes  of  Zion,  up  to  the  present  time,  and 
should  know  half  of  this  congregation,  but  I  have  only  been  able  to 
pick  out  about  two  dozen  faces.  As  I  walk  amongst  you,  if  you  will 
just  punch  me  one  in  the  ribs  I  shall  know  I  have  been  in  your  town. 

An  Incident  About  Judge  Elias  A.  Smith 

As  Brother  Joseph  Fielding  spoke  yesterday  of  the  sanctity  of 
work,  I  could  not  help  thinking  of  Judge  Elias  A.  Smith  who  cele- 
brated his  eighty-eighth  birthday  just  about  two  weeks  ago.  Think- 
ing, of  course,  that  a  man  eighty-eight  years  of  age  would  be  resting 
in  his  home,  I  went  over  to  his  place,  only  to>  discover  that  he  was 
at  work,  about  two  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  So  I  wended  my  may 
down  to  his  office,  but  he  was  so  busy  that  he  was  unable  to  stop  to 
have  anyone  congratulate  him  on  his  eighty-eighth  birthday.  The 
following  day  I  met  him  on  the  street  and  said,  "Judge,  I  went  to 
your  home  and  your  office  yesterday  to  wish  you  many  happy  re- 
turns."   "Well,"  he  said,  "I  am  a  busy  man." 

"Yes,  I  noted  that.  I  couldn't  get  to  see  you  in  the  office.  I 
thought  you  would  be  home.  I  didn't  know  you  were  working." 
"Why,"  he  said,  "working,  earning  my  own  way.  I  am  so  much 
happier  doing  that  than  I  could  possibly  be  in  any  other  way."  I 
wish  a  lot  of  folks  could  follow  Judge  Elias  A.  Smith's  way  of  life, 
and  the  way  of  life  which  our  President  has  followed.  Day  before 
yesterday  morning,  down  in  back  of  the  Church  Office  Building  in 
his  car,  sick  and  afflicted,  our  worthy  President  sat  and  signed  the 
letters  that  he  had  dictated  to  go  out  to  different  parts  of  the  Church. 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Dag 

He  isn't  too  old  to  work,  nor  too  sick,  nor  feeble  to  work.  God  bless 
him. 

The  Keeping  of  the  Sabbath 

•  Brother  Mark  Petersen  brought  to  my  mind  the  words  of  our 
Savior: 

Blessed  are  they  which  are  persecuted  for  righteousness'  sake:  for 
theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  Blessed  are  ye,  when  men  shall  revile 
you,  and  persecute  you,  and  shall  say  all  manner  of  evil  against  you  false- 
ly, for  my  sake.  Rejoice,  and  be  exceeding  glad;  for  great  is  your  reward 
in  heaven:  for  so  persecuted  they  the  prophets  which  were  before  you. 
(Matthew  5:10-12.) 

And  then  our"  President's  message,  speaking  of  the  many  com- 
mandments and  reminding  us  of  our  responsibility  as  leaders,  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  made  me  think  of  one 
commandment  especially.  As  I  have  traveled  about  attending  your 
conferences,  of  necessity  I  have  had  to  travel  on  Sundays  through- 
out the  intermountain  states,  and  I  have  seen  men  in  the  fields  plow- 
ing, and  hauling  their  hay,  and  putting  their  grain  into  the  stacks.  I 
have  seen  lined  up  on  this  sacred  Sabbath  day  many  people  in  front 
of  the  moving  picture  theatres  waiting  to  purchase  their  tickets.  I 
have  noted  crowds  lined  up  at  sporting  events,  buying  their  tickets 
that  they  might  go  in  and  participate  in  that  recreation  upon  this 
holy  day.  It  may  surprise  you  when  I  say  that  my  grandfather, 
George  A.  Smith,  was  one  of  the  ffrst  men  to  break  the  Sabbath  day 
here  in  Utah.  Being  rather  a  practical  sort  of  man,  he  felt  that  it 
was  just  as  necessary  that  hunger  should  be  appeased  as  that  we 
should  lift  the  sheep  out  of  the  pit  upon  the  Sabbath  day  (see  Matt. 
12:11),  and  according  to  his  journal,  on  July  24th,  1847,  you  re- 
member, the  Saints  came  down  into  the  valley.  Grandfather's  diary 
records  that: 

...  it  was  cloudy  but  quite  warm.  Potatoes  were  planted.  I  planted 
the  first.  At  about  two  o'clock  President  Brigham  Young  and  his  company 
came  up  all  better.  Water  was  let  on  the  ground  on  the  twenty-fourth. 
Toward  evening  there  was  a  slight  shower.  Sunday,  July  25th,  it  was 
clear  and  warm.  Meetings  commenced  at  half  past  ten.  In  the  morning, 
I,  in  company  with  some  others,  planted  some  corn,  beans  and  peas. 
Meeting  again  at  two  p.m.  That  afternoon  Brigham  Young  chastised  me, 
directing  that  the  brethren  must  not  work  on  Sunday.  He  said  they  would 
lose  five  times  as  much  as  they  would  gain  by  it.  None  were  to  hunt  that 
day,  and  there  should  not  any  man  dwell  among  us  who  would  not  observe 
these  rules.  They  might  go  and  dwell  wherever  they  pleased  but  they 
should  not  dwell  amongst  us. 

Grandfather  must  have  taken  that  lesson  to  heart  after  he  had 
been  plowing  and  planting  seeds  upon  that  Sunday  morning,  for  he 
got  into  the  soul  of  my  father  the  great  ideal  that  Sunday  was  the 
Lord's  day,  the  day  that  we  should  observe'  and  rest  and  refrain 
from  all  types  of  work. 

While  we  had  horses  and  our  whitetop,  we  couldn't  use  them 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH  63 

on  the  Sabbath  day.  I  remember  on  one  occasion  when  my  brother, 
Winslow,  and  I  went  to  our  father  and  asked  him  if  we  might  have 
the  whitetop,  he  said,  "Boys,  we  must  follow  so-and-so's  example, 
and  you  can't  take  the  horses  and  the  wagon  out."  That  afternoon 
we  saw  so-and-so's  boys  out  in  their  whitetop,  so  the  following  Sun- 
day we  came  to  father  and  said,  "Father,  may  we  take  the  whitetop 
out  today?"  "What  did  I  tell  you  last  Sunday,  boys?"  "Well,  you 
said  to  follow  so-and-so's  example,  and  last  Sunday  we  saw  them 
out  in  their  whitetop."  Father  said,  "Well,  we  won't  follow  any- 
body's example.  We  will  set  one  of  our  own.  You  can't  have  the 
whitetop." 

Advice  from  Church  Leaders 

Some  years  later,  after  Brigham  Young  had  spoken  about  the 
Sabbath  day  he  was  again  called  upon  to  speak  of  it.  Apparently 
they  hadn't  moved  away,  those  who  desired  to  break  the  Sabbath, 
for  he  said,  "Now  remember,  my  brethren,  those  who  go  skating, 
buggy  riding,  or  on  excursions  on  the  Sabbath  day — and  there  is  a 
great  deal  of  this  practice — are  weak  in  the  faith.  Gradually,  little 
by  little,  the  spirit  of  their  religion  leaks  out  of  their  hearts,  their -af- 
fections and  in  time_they  begin  to  see  faults  in  their  brethren,  faults 
in  the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  faults  in  the  organization,  and  at  last 
they  leave  the  kingdom  of  God  and  go  to  destruction." 

He  felt  very  seriously  about  this  subject,  as  have  all  of  the  men 
who  have  presided  over  this  Church.  All  of  them  have  stressed  this 
important  matter.  I  think  that  perhaps  the  greatest  and  finest  ex- 
pression was  by  President  Grant  when  he  said,  "The  Lord's  day  is 
a  holy  day  and  not  a  holiday.  It  has  been  set  apart  as  a  day  of  rest 
and  worship,  and  we  accept  the  Lord's  day  as  the  first  day  of  the 
week  in  accordance  with  the  instructions  given  by  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith.  A  sacred  Sabbath  begets  reverence  for  God."  And 
how  essential  that  is.  "It  is  not  pleasing  in  his  sight  that  the  day  be 
given  over  to  pleasure-seeking  in  places  of  amusement  or  elsewhere. 
Sunday  Schools  and  meetings  have  been  so  arranged  that  they  meet 
the  convenience  of  the  people  and  leave  a  considerable  portion  of 
the  Sabbath  day  without  Church  appointments.  We  earnestly  ap- 
peal to  the  people  to  keep  their  appointments  faithfully  and  to  uti- 
lize that  part  of  Sunday  not  appointed,  for  meetings  in  promoting 
family  association  in  the  home,  with  the  purpose  of  stimulating  and 
establishing  greater  home  fealty,  a  closer  companionship  among  par- 
ents and  children;  and  more  intimate  relations  among  all  kindred. 
We  believe  it  is  unnecessary  for  families  to  go  beyond  their  homes 
or  those  of  their  kindred  for  the  relaxation  and  associations  which 
are  proper  for  the  Sabbath  day,  and  we  therefore  discourage  more 
traveling  than  is  necessary  for  this  purpose  and  attendance  upon  ap- 
pointed meetings.  Let  all  unnecessary  labor  be  suspended,  and  let 
no  encouragement  be  given  by  members  of  the  Church  at  places  of 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Day 

amusement  and  recreation  on  the  Sabbath  day.  If  Sunday  is  spent 
in  our  meetings  and  in  our  homes,  great  blessings  will  come  to  our 
families  and  to  our  communities." 

So  I  would  appeal,  my  brethren,  to  you  who  are  the  presiding 
officers  in  the  Church,  that  in  your  actions  nothing  can  be  laid  at 
your  door  that  would  cause  anyone  to  start  on  that  path  of  desecrat- 
ing the  Sabbath  day,  and  I  would  bring  to  your  minds  that  message 
which  was  written  by  the  finger  of  God  upon  tablets  of  stone: 

Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep  it  holy.  Six  days  shalt  thou 
labour,  and  do  all  thy  work:  But  the  seventh  day  is  the  sabbath  of  the 
Lord  thy  God:  in  it  thou  shalt  not  do  any  work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy 
daughter,  thy  manservant,  nor  thy  maidservant,  nor  thy  cattle,  nor  thy 
stranger  that  is  within  thy  gates:  For  in  six  days  the  Lord  made  heaven 
and  earth,  the  sea,  and  all  that  in  them  is,  and  rested  the  seventh  day: 
wherefore  the  Lord  blessed  the  sabbath  day,  and  hallowed  it.  (Exodus 
20:8-11.) 

Amen. 

PRESIDENT  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

We  first  see  him  in  the  woods  on  the  frontier  of  America  pray- 
ing as  a  child  might  pray  and  the  Lord  appearing  to  him.  Using  the 
words  of  the  Psalmist,  "Grace  is  poured  into  thy  lips,  therefore  God 
hath  blessed  thee  for  ever  more." 


Joseph  Smith's  First  Vision 

With  the  Father  was  Jesus  the  Savior.  Joseph  heard  the  voice 
of  God  and  the  divine  words:  "This  is  my  Beloved  Son."  A  new 
day  was  at  hand.  From  that  moment  he  was  heart  and  mind  to  the 
word  of  the  Lord.    What  a  message  for  our  missionaries  of  today! 

He  learned  that  day  that  the  divisions  of  Christendom  are  its 
most  conspicuous  reproach  and  the  chief  cause  of  its  inefficiency. 
They  present  a  moral  affront  to  the  enterprise  inaugurated  by  Jesus 
Christ,  and  constitute  the  outstanding  limitation  of  its  progress. 
Christianity  is  weakened  by  its  division  in  facing  the  problems  of  to- 
day, among  which  are  class  hatreds,  race  antagonisms,  blindness  to 
social  justice,  the  lure  of  vicious  literature,  crime-instigating  narcot- 
ics, and  the  spread  of  military  spirit  in  the  world. 

The  supreme  test  of  religion  is  revelation.  No  religion  can  be 
persuasive  unless  it  relies  on  the  principle  of  revelation.  The  living 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  must  be  revelatory.  One  readily  sees  that 
the  very  lifeblood  of  the  Church  is  the  principle  and  potency  of  re- 
demption.   Christianity  in  its  pure  sense  is  the  religion  of  redeemed 


PRESIDENT  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  65 


personality.  While  all  true  men  reveal  God,  the  completest  carrier 
of  revelation  can  be  no  other  than  a  chosen  personality. 

The  Message  of  the  Restoration 

By  the  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  which  he  received  from 
heaven,  Joseph  established  our  true  relationship  to  God.  Out  of 
this  grows  the  salvation  of  man — his  true  immortal  life.  The  nations 
all  bear  witness  to  the  need  of  a  light  that  is  not  of  man.  We  can 
give  our  word  to  the  world  that  the  forces  which  are  to  make  the 
world  the  world  it  ought  to  be  are  now  within  it.  The  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  gave  a  new  idea  of  the  duty  of  man  toward  God;  of  man's 
duty  to  man  in  religion,  politics,  and  society;  of  the  duties  of  nations 
towards  one  another.  His  message  was  for  the  fireside,  for  we  are 
taught  that  the  gospel  must  be  in  the  home;  it  is  "pure  religion  breath- 
ing household  laws."  The  father  holds  the  priesthood  of  God;  the 
mother  is  heir  to  the  same  influence  of  the  priesthood.  It  brings  the 
truest  conception  of  home  life,  which  lies  at  the  root  of  civilization. 
Here  are  the  children  born  and  reared.  Here  are  the  teachings  of  faith 
expressed  in  prayer.  Every  child  is  taught  faith,  hope,  charity,  and 
love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God.  Reverence  for  God  is 
the  basis  of  morality. 

Joseph  Smith's  concept  of  government  and  law  was  divinely  en- 
lightened. Government  was  instituted  by  Almighty  God,  and  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  was  written  by  men  inspired  of  God 
to  bring  just  civic  life  to  the  world,  for  there  is  a  sacredness  of  citizen- 
ship which  we  all  should  know.  It  requires  the  faithful  use  of  po- 
litical rights.  He  saw  the  wrong  of  slavery  and  advocated  that  the 
government  buy  the  slaves  from  their  masters,  and  give  them  the  op- 
portunity to  develop  their  own  lives  adapted  to  them.  What  a  trag- 
edy this  could  have  averted.  There  must  be  a  revival  of  civic  pride 
in  America,  a  keener  respect  for  law  and  order.  All  the  written  laws 
in  the  world  cannot  bring  back  that  fine  old  love  of  justice  and  the 
ways  of  God.  There  must  be  the  spirit  of  consecration,  of  selfdis- 
cipline,  of  devotion  to  the  righteous  teachings  of  God.  Far  back  in 
the  ages,  Isaiah,  six  hundred  years  before  the  Savior  of  mankind 
came,  wrote:  "Open  ye  the  gates,  that  the  righteous  nation  which 
keepeth  the  truth  may  enter  in."  (Isaiah  26:2.)  There  is  a  con- 
science of  nations  as  there  is  of  individuals.  We  had  once  a  national 
conscience,  as  expressed  by  the  Puritans,  Quakers,  and  the  many 
other  religious  devotees  who  settled  these  shores.  They  knew  moral 
integrity,  moral  purpose,  moral  restraint. 

,  The  Meaning  of  Civilization 

Our  civic  ethics,  our  social  idealism  should  rest  securely  on 
what  an  eminent  lord  chief  justice  of  England  said: 

Civilization  is  not  dominion;  wealth,  material  luxury.    Not  a  great 
literature  and  education,  good  though  these  things  are.    Its  true  signs  are 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7 


Second  Day 


thoughtfulness  for  the  poor  and  suffering,  chivalrous  regard  and  respect 
for  woman,  the  frank  recognition  for  human  brotherhood,  the  doing  away 
with  war,  the  love  of  ordered  freedom,  abhorrence  of  what  is  mean  and 
cruel,  ceaseless  devotion  to  the  claims  of  justice. 

Yes,  we  need  the  old-fashioned  ethics,  "when  it  was  taught 
that  every  man  should  give  account  of  himself  to  god." 

The  vision  of  the  boy  Prophet  revealed  two  mighty  truths:  the 
reality  of  the  spiritual  life — the  divine  life;  and  the  divinity  and 
sanctity  of  the  human  body.  The  proper  knowledge  of  the  the  per- 
sonality of  God  and  of  Jesus  Christ  gave  foundation  for  the  redemp- 
tion of  the  world  from  sin. 

Body  and  Mind  Closely  Related  • 

The  connection  between  body  and  mind  is  a  commonplace  of 
thought  with  us,  but  it  is  not  a  commonplace  of  practice.  The  rela- 
tion of  mind  and  body  is  a  very  close  one  in  which  each  affects  the 
other  for  good  or  evil.  We  are  more  dependent  on  physical  condi- 
tions for  our  happiness,  and  even  for  our  goodness,  than  we  perhaps 
like  to  admit.  The  keenest  brain  and  the  spirit  of  man  need  a  found- 
ation of  physical  health  to  do  their  best  work.  The  treatment  of  the 
body  must  be  put  on  a  moral  basis.  Every  act  of  intemperance  of 
whatever  sort,  every  sin  against  the  .physical  constitution,  every  wil- 
ful neglect  of  the  laws  of  health  and  moral  life,  is  injuring  the  self 
in  ways  too  delicate  to  estimate,  and  is  dimming  the  radiance  of  the 
soul.    There  is  such  a  thing  as  physical  morality. 

Beautifully  has  the  Prophet  depicted  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants that  God  reigns  in  heaven  and  in  earth.  He  is  the  rightful 
King  of  nations,  and  the  source  of  supreme  good  to  man.  It  is 
through  forgetting  God  and  forsaking  him  that  spiritual  and  moral 
degradation  and  all  the  sorrows  of  this  war-torn  world  result.  It  will 
be  by  mankind  acting  for  God  and  responding  to  his  call  that  a  new 
age  will  come.  More  majestic  are  his  words:  "Man  must  be  called 
of  God  to  administer  in  his  holy  ordinances  and  to  teach  his  eternal 
word."  Must  be  called  of  God!  Do  we  of  the  priesthood  of  the 
Lord  deeply  feel  and  deeply  know  what  this  means?  "It  administer- 
eth  the  gospel  and  holdeth  the  key  of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom, 
even  the  key  of  the  knowledge  of  God."  "In  the  ordinances  the 
power  of  Godliness  is  manifest." 

If  the  priesthood  is  a  living  reality  in  our  lives,  all  thought  and 
action  will  be  regulated  by  our  relation  to  God.  Through  a  knowl- 
edge of  God  alone  can  human  life  assume  its  true  destined  signifi- 
cance. "All  duties  will  become  in  the  highest  sense  duties  to  God; 
morality  will  become  holiness. 


The  congregation  arose  and  sang  the  hymn,  "God  Moves  in  a 
Mysterious  Way,"  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  50,  Hymn  Book  No.  22. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


67 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters  of  the  radio  audi- 
ence, that  I  might  have  an  interest  in  your  prayers  and  faith  this 
morning  as  I  stand  before  you  to  express  one  or  two  thoughts. 

Gratitude  for  Blessings  of  the  Gospel 

As  I  listened  to  the  Lord's  anointed,  yesterday,  there  came  into 
my  heart  a  feeling  of  profound  gratitude — gratitude  to  my  forebears 
who  left  the  Alps  of  Switzerland  and  the  villages  of  England  and 
came  to  the  valleys  of  these  mountains  where  their  posterity  might 
enjoy  all  of  the  blessings  and  gifts  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  I  am  profoundly  grateful  to  them,  because  it  has  brought 
me  under  the  direction  of  the  Lord's  prophets.  And  anyone  who 
listened  to  President  Grant's  message  yesterday  couldn't  help  feel- 
ing that  he  was  speaking  to  us  as  God's  mouthpiece  and  servant.  It 
is  my  firm  conviction  and  testimony  that  if  all  of  us  will  heed  the  ad- 
vice and  counsel  of  these  men  who  guide  and  direct  the  destiny  of 
this  great  work  that  God  will  sustain  us  and  bless  us  through  all  the 
vicissitudes,  trials,  and  tribulations  of  life. 

As  I  grow  older,  I  become  more  convinced  in  my  heart  and  spirit 
that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  One  evidence  to  me 
that  it  is  his  work,  is  that  the  Lord  is  not  only  mindful  of  those  who 
live,  but  he  is 'mindful  of  those  who  passed  on  without  having  had 
the  opportunity  of  hearing  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
flesh.  The  Lord  ordained  his  Son  to  be  the  judge  of  both  the  dead 
and  the  quick.  David,  who  transgressed  sorely,  understood  fully 
that  there  would  come  a  time  when  he,  too,  would  have  an  oppor- 
tunity of  repenting  and  enjoying  the  good  will  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.   He  said: 

Therefore  my  heart  is  glad,  and  my  glory  rejoiceth:  my  flesh  also  shall 
rest  in  hope.  For  thou  wilt  not  leave  my  soul  in  hell;  neither  wilt  thou 
suffer  thine  Holy  One  to  see  corruption.  Thou  wilt  shew  me  the  path  of 
life:  in  thy  presence  is  fulness  of  joy;  at  thy  right  hand  there  are  pleas- 
ures for  evermore.  (Psalms  16:9-11.) 

Baptism  A  Necessary  Ordinance 

With  the  advent  of  the  Savior  upon  the  earth,  there  came  to 
him  one  of  the  learned  Pharisees,  Nicodemus.  Nicodemus  was  in- 
terested in  the  miracles  the  Savior  performed,  and  finally  out  of  the 
discussion  that  ensued,  the  Savior  said  to  Nicodemus,  "Verily,  ver- 
ily, I  say  unto  thee,  Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the 
kingdom  of  God."  Nicodemus  could  not  understand  this  statement. 
Thinking  that  once  a  man  had  been  born  of  woman  that  was  enough, 
and  then  to  clarify  the  statement  the  Lord  said: 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  x  Second  Day 


.  .  .  Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Except  a  man  be  born  of  water 
and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God.  That  which 
is  born  of  the  flesh  is  flesh;  and  that  which  is  born  of  the  Spirit  is  spirit. 
(John  3:5,  6.) 

The  Savior  here  laid  down  the  mandate  of  baptism  that  applies 
to  every  son  and  daughter  of  the  Lord  that  is  born  in  the  flesh,  that 
if  they  expect  entrance  into  the  kingdom  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
they  must  be  born  of  the  water,  or  baptized  of  the  water,  born  of 
the  spirit  or  baptized  of  the  spirit.  This  declaration  was  so  import- 
ant that  the  Savior  himself  submitted  to  the  ordinance  of  baptism.  We 
all  recall  the  time  when  John  was  baptizing  by  the  Jordan  and  then 
cometh  Jesus  from  Galilee  unto  John  to  be  baptized  of  him,  but  John 
forbade  him  saying : 

...  I  have  need  to  be  baptized  of  thee,  and  comest  thou  to  me?  And 
Jesus  answering  said  unto  him.  Suffer  it  to  be  so  now:  for  thus  it  becom- 
eth  us  to  fulfill  all  righteousness.  Then  he  suffered  him.  And  Jesus,  when 
he  was  baptized,  went  up  straightway  out  of  the  water:  and,  lo,  the  heav- 
ens were  opened  unto  him,  and  he  saw  the  Spirit  of  God  descending  like 
a  dove,  and  lighting  upon  him:  And  lo  a' voice  from  heaven  saying,  This 
is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased.  (Matt.  3:14-17.) 

Christ  not  only  inaugurated  the  initiatory  ordinance  into  the 
kingdom  of  heaven,  but  he  also  placed  upon  his  followers  the  mantle 
of  authority.    For  said  he  this  to  Peter: 

And  I  say  also  unto  thee,  That  thou  art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  will 
I  build  my  church;  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it.  And 
I  will  give  unto  thee  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven:  and  whatsoever 
thou  shalt  bind  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven:  and  whatsoever  thou 
shalt  loose  on  earth  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven.  (Matt.  16:18,  19.) 

Then  there  came  Calvary  Hill  when  the  Savior  of  the  world 
was  crucified  between  two  sinners,  and  upon  the  cross  he  conversed 
with  one  of  these  men,  Christ  making  him  this  promise: 

And  Jesus  said  unto  him,  Verily  I  say  unto  thee,  Today  shalt  thou 
be  with  me  in  paradise.  (Luke  23:43.) 

This  statement  has  been  confusing  to  the  Christian  world,  in 
view  of  the  fact  that  the  Savior  said  unto  Nicodemus,  "Verily, 
verily  I  say  unto  thee,  except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  the  Spirit, 
he  cannot  enter  the  kingdom  of  God."  (op.  cit.)  There  is  no  ques- 
tion but  that  the  thief  had  never  heard  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  until  the  Savior  preached  it  to  him  on  the  cross,  and  yet  the 
Savior  promised  him  that  he  would  be  in  paradise;  the  world  in  its 
confused  thinking  believes  that  paradise  is  heaven.  The  Apostle 
Peter  clarifies  this  misconception  of  paradise  when  we  read  his  state- 
ment found  in  I  Peter: 

For  Christ  also  hath  once  suffered  for  sins,  the  just  for  the  unjust;  that  he 
might  bring  us  to  God,  being  put  to  death  in  the  flesh,  but  quickened  by  the 
Spirit:  By  which  also  he  went  and  preached  unto  the  spirits  in  prison; 
Which  sometime  were  disobedient,  when  once  the  longsuffering  of  God 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  69 


waited  in  the  days  of  Noah,  while  the  ark  was  preparing,  wherein  few, 
that  is,  eight  souls  were  saved  by  water.  (I  Peter  3:18,  19,  20.) 

After  the  Savior  was  resurrected  and  meeting  Mary,  he  said 
to  her,  "Touch  me  not;  for  I  am  not  yet  ascended  to  my  Father  .  .  ." 
(John  20:17),  which  is  an  indication  to  us  that  during  the  time  his 
spirit  and  body  were  separated,  he  was  in  paradise,  preaching  the 
gospel  message  to  those  who,  as  Peter  tells  us,  sinned  in  the  days 
of  Noah  and  were  swept  from  the  earth  by  the  great  flood. 

Another  very  important  statement  with  reference  to  baptism 
was  made  by  Paul  when  he  was  preaching  the  resurrection.  He  said: 

Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are  baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead 
rise  not  at  all?    why  are  they  then  baptized  for  the  dead?    (I  Cor.  15:29.) 

Changes  Made  Through  Apostasy 

Thereafter,  according  to  prophecy,  there  came  the  great  apos- 
tasy. It  was  only  a  matter  of  a  century  or  two  after  the  apostles  had 
disappeared  from  the  earth  until  the  ordinances  and  doctrines  of 
men  were  substituted  for  those  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  words 
of  the  old  prophet  Amos  were  fulfilled  wherein  he  said: 

Behold,  the  days  come,  saith  the  Lord  God,  that  I  will  send  a  famine 
in  the  land,  not  a  famine  of  bread,  nor  a  thirst  for  water,  but  of  hearing  the 
words  of  the  Lord.    (Amos  8:11.) 

We  find  one  of  the  world's  greatest  ecclesiastical  leaders  mak- 
ing this  statement  in  a  book  that  he  wrote,  the  book  written  by  Card- 
inal Gibbons  called  The  Faith  o/  Our  Fathers,  wherein  he  said  that 
the  ordinance  of  baptism  was  changed  from  that  of  immersion  to 
sprinkling  for  convenience's  sake.    Said  he: 

There  are  those  who  are  ill.  There  are  those  where  there  may  be  but 
little  water  found,  consequently  there  being  little  water  it  is  right  to  sprin- 
kle them,  and  that  sprinkling  is  just  as  efficacious  as  immersion. 

The  important  thing  is  that  this  great  ecclesiastical  leader  ad- 
mits that  baptism  was  by  immersion  just  as  Christ  indicated,  and  as 
he  was  baptized  by  John  the  Baptist,  and  as  he  indicated  to  Nico- 
demus,  that  if  a  man  must  be  born  again  he  would  have  to  be  born 
of  the  water,  completely  submerged  and  come  forth,  symbolical  of 
the  birth. 

With  the  apostasy  there  came  into  the  world  many  doctrines. 
There  came  into  the  world  erroneous  doctrines  that  there  is  no  place 
in  the  kingdom  of  our  Heavenly  Father  for  those  who  have  not  heard 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  but  the  Lord  said  in  the  begin- 
ning he  ordained  his  Son  to  be  the  judge  of  not  only  the  living  but 
also  the  dead.  The  world  has  lost  sight  of  this  concept,  and  the  great 
churches  teach  the  following: 

There  is  nothing  any  human  being  can  do  to  change  the  condition 
of  the  dead. '  After  one  dies  there  is  no  more  that  can  be  done  or  that  he 
can  do. 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Day 


Another  one  declares: 

Don't  believe  we  can  help  those  who  have  died,  neither  believers  nor 
nonbelievers;  no  ordinance  for  the  dead  that  recognized  intercession  for  the 
dead  as  well  as  for  the  living.    Man  cannot  help  those  who  have  died. 
We  have  no  form  of  work  for  the  dead.    After  the  death,  the  judgment. 

Another  one: 

We  are  powerless  to  do  anything  for  those  who  are  dead.  Don't 
believe  in  any  form  of  work  for  the  dead.  We  are  powerless  to  aid  those 
who  are  dead. 

I  am  sure  that  if  these  great  religious  organizations  understood 
the  mission  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  they  would  not  declare  to  the 
world  nor  to  their  followers  that  nothing  can  be  done  for  those  who 
have  passed  on.  Without  having  heard  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  and  those  who  have  not  submitted  themselves  to  the  ordi- 
.  nance  of  baptism,  they  would  have  us  believe  that  they  are  lost  for- 
ever and  ever. 

Then  Cardinal  Gibbons  makes  another  rather  pertinent  state- 
ment in  his  book  (op.  dr.)  wherein  he  said  this: 

For  if  baptism  by  immersion  only  is  valid,  how  many  sick  and  delicate 
persons;  how  many  prisoners  and  seafaring  people,  how  many  thousands 
living  in  the  frigid  zone,  in  the  depth  of  inclement  weather,  though  craving 
the  grace  of  regeneration  would  be  deprived  of  God's  seal  or  receive  it 
at  the  risk  of  their  lives.  Surely  God  does  not  ordinarily  impose  ordi- 
nances upon  us  under  such  a  penalty.  Moreover,  if  immersion  is  the  only 
form  of  valid  baptism,  what  has  become  of  the  millions  of  souls  in  every 
age  and  country  that  have  been  regenerated  by  sprinkling  of  water  in  the 
Christian  churches? 

Promises  of  the  Restoration  Fulfilled 

When  the  Lord,  through  his  servants,  predicted  that  there 
would  be  a  famine  for  his  word  in  the  land,  knowing  that  men  would 
change  the  ordinances  and  substitute  their  own,  he  also  gave  the 
world  a  promise  that  the  day  would  come,  as  he  said,  when: 

Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord:  And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the 
fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  heart  of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest 
I  come  and  smite  the  earth  with  a  curse.  (Mai.  4;  5,  6.) 

That  promise  has  been  kept.  John  the  Baptist  appeared  to  Jo- 
seph Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  upon  the  banks  of  the  Susquehan- 
na River  bestowing  upon  them  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  the  same 
priesthood  that  John  the  Baptist  held  when  he  baptized  the  Savior. 
They  immersed  one  another  just  as  Christ  was  immersed  by  John  the 
Baptist.  Later,  there  came  three  other  heavenly  beings,  Peter,  James, 
and  John,  who  bestowed  upon  these  men  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood, 
that  priesthood  which  Christ  himself  bestowed  upon  Peter  and  his 
associates,  giving  them  the  right  to  bind  on  earth  and  to  bind  in  heaven 
and  to  loose  on  earth  and  it  would  be  loosed  in  heaven. 

Elijah  conferred  upon  Joseph  Smith  the  keys  of  this  great  work, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  71 

the  work  for  the  dead,  wherein  children  perform  the  ordinance  of  bap- 
tism for  their  dead  progenitors,  which  is  a  vicarious  form  of  work  just 
as  was  Christ's  atonement  for  the  sin  of  Adam  of  a  vicarious  nature 
wherein  he  represented  all  of  us  upon  the  cross.  Furthermore,  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  in  1918  indicated  that  he  had  been  caught  up  by 
the  spirit  and  was  permitted  to  see  what  was  going  on  in  the  spirit 
world.  The  sight  he  beheld  was  one  wherein  the  brethren  were  preach- 
ing to  the  spirits  in  paradise  just  as  the  Savior  nineteen  centuries  ago 
in  spirit  form  preached  them  the  gospel.  By  performing  the  ordinance 
of  baptism  here  in  proxy  form  for  the  dead,  there  are  no  obstacles  in 
their  way  whereby  they  might  embrace  the  gospel  in  its  entirety  though 
they  be  in  paradise.  I  wish  to  declare  that  with  the  appearance  of 
Elijah  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  the  restoration  of  the  priesthood,  bap- 
tism for  the  dead,  and  the  preaching  to  spirits  as  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  indicates,  constitute  an  answer  to  Cardinal  Gibbons  with  ref- 
erence to  those  who  have  not  been  born  of  the  water  and  the  spirit, 
as  the  Savior  indicated  to  Nicpdemus  a  man  must  needs  be  before  he 
can  enter  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  Think,  if  you  will,  of  the  millions 
who  have  died  without  the  performance  of  this  ordinance  and  the  ac- 
ceptance of  the  gospel  during  the  period  when  the  gospel  was  not 
upon  the  earth.  To  me  it  is  only  justice  that  our  kind  Father  in  heav- 
en would  institute  a  plan  whereby  all  his  children,  be  they  alive  or 
dead,  might  have  the  privilege  of  accepting  or  rejecting  the  gospel 
of  his  beloved  Son.  I  could  not  worship  a  God  who  would  permit 
some  of  his  children  to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  gospel  and  deprive 
others  who  for  some  reason  or  another  had  not  heard  the  gospel  be- 
cause of  some  circumstances  over  which  they  had  no  control  and  were 
denied  the  privilege  of  accepting  it.  I  do  not  believe  in  that  kind  of 
a  God,  and  neither  do  you.  We  believe  in  a  God  who  so  loved  the 
world  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son  to  suffer,  to  bleed,  and  die 
to  the  end  that  everyone  of  us  might  enjoy  salvation  and  exaltation 
in  his  kingdom. 

This  is  the  philosophy  of  Mormonism,  a  plan  of  salvation  so 
broad  that  it  provides  an  opportunity  for  everyone  of  the  Lord's 
children  to  gain  entrance  to  his  kingdom  as  was  prescribed  by  the 
Savior  to  Nicodemus. 

This  is  my  testimony  to  you,  and  I  am  grateful  beyond  words 
of  expression  to  know  that  I  enjoy  membership  in  God's  Church,  the 
same  Church  that  Christ  established  upon  the  earth  with  apostles, 
prophets,  eyangelists,  and  teachers,  for  the  purpose  of  teaching  us 
the  gospel  in  its  fulness  and  to  the  ultimate  end  that  we  may  all 
come  to  a  unity  of  faith.  And  we  may  come  to  a  unity  of  the  faith 
if  we  abide  by  the  counsel  given  to  us  by  the  Lord's  anointed,  and 
that  unity  of  faith  will  exemplify  to  the  whole  world  the  destiny  of 
this  great  organization — a  destiny  of  leadership  to  direct  men  from 
the  paths  of  error  into  the  paths  of  truth,  salvation,  and  exaltation, 
which  I  pray  will  be  the  blessing  of  everyone  of  the  Lord's  children, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  .  Second  Day 

ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  o[  the  Seventy 

President  Grant,  President  Clark,  President  McKay,  members 
of  the  priesthood,  and  all  the  radio  audience:  I  stand  before  this 
assembled  group  today  in  deep  humility,  in  trembling  and  weakness. 
I  have  no  words  to  express  the  intense  feelings  that  have  completely 
filled  me  during  the  past  twenty-four  hours.  The  more  I  contem- 
plate-the  call  which  has  been  made  upon  me  the  greater  the  respon- 
sibility looms  before  my  mind,  and  the  more  I  recognize  my  weak- 
ness and  incapability  in  filling  this  position.  I  know  that  without  the 
help  of  God  the.  task  will  be  t$o  great,  but  I  do  trust  and  pray  with 
all  my  heart  that  I  might  have  his  Holy  Spirit  to  be  with  me,  that  in 
this  new  call  I  may  be  a  worthy  servant  in  helping  to  proclaim  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  do  covenant  before  my  Heavenly  Father 
and  before  you  that  I  will  put  forth  my  very  best  efforts,  that  I  will 
give  all  of  my  time  and  talents  and  anything  that  God  has  blessed 
me  with  for  the  upbuilding  of  his  Church  and  kingdom  here  upon 
this  earth. 

I  hope  you  will  pardon  me  this  morning  if  I  say  a  few  things 
that  are  personal,  but  during  the  past  twenty-four  hours  with  such 
a  sudden  change  coming  into  my  life,  my  mind  has  been  going  back 
in  retrospect  over  the  events  of  my  past  life  and  also  of  my  future. 
I  desire  to  express,  with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  a  few  of  my  feelings, 
a  few  of  my  hopes. 

Experience  In  Seminary  Work 

I  have  always  loved  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  more  than  any- 
thing else  in  life.  I  have  continuously  labored  in  the  Church  from 
my  boyhood  up,  willingly  and  happily.  The  gospel  and  the  oppor- 
tunities to  serve  in  the  Church  have  been  the  greatest  blessing  and 
joy  in  my  life.  When  I  was  attending  high  school  seminary  under 
one  of  our  very  excellent  teachers,  Brother  William  Tew,  I  made 
up  my  mind  that  if  I  ever  had  the  opportunity  I  should  like  to  be  a 
seminary  teacher  and  devote  my  time  and  my  entire  life  to  teaching 
the  gospel  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  With  that  thought  in  mind  I 
went  on  through  school.  Elder  Joseph  F.  Merrill  offered  me  the  op- 
portunity, which  I  gladly  accepted,  and  in  happiness  I  undertook 
the  work. 

I  have  had  the  great  privilege  of  spending  seventeen  years  in 
the  Church  system  of  education  in  the  high  school  seminaries  and  in 
the  institutes.  They  have  been  years  of  much  happiness  to  me,  years 
I  know  that  have  furnished  me  wonderful  opportunities.  Through- 
out that  time  I  have  never  lost  opportunity  on  any  occasion  to  bear 
testimony  to  the  students  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  gospel  and  to  try 
to  help  them  with  all  evidence  possible  to  gain  a  testimony  of  the 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


73 


gospel;  and  to  gain  facts  and  the  proper  spirit  which  will  sustain 
this  great  Church  of  our  Master  to  which  we  belong. 

I  would  like  on  this  occasion  to  remark  to  the  parents  of  the 
young  people  of  the  Church  and  to  the  First  Presidency  and  to  the 
officers  of  the  Church,  that  I  have  found  through  working  with  the 
young  people  that  they  are  great;  they  are  wonderful;  they  are  filled 
with  the  testimony  of  the  gospel;  they  are  just  as  staunch,  just  as  true, 
just  as  faithful,  I  am  sure,  as  were  their  parents  or  their  grandpar- 
ents. I  have  never  seen  more  faith  exhibited  in  my  life  by  any  group 
of  people  than  I  have  seen  among  the  young  people  of  our  Church 
with  whom  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  working.  I  do  not  fear  for 
the  future  of  the  Church  so  long  as  our  young  people  are  of  this 
splendid  type,  and  so  long  as  they  are  filled  with  the  spirit  of  the 
gospel  and  continue  living  their  present  type  of  lives.  I  am  sure  that 
they  will  take  leadership  in  the  Church  in  due  time  and  carry  it  on 
very  effectively.  I  accept  the  promise  made  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
that  the  gospel  is  upon  the  earth  never  to  be  taken  from  the  earth 
again  and  never  to  be  given  to  another  people. 

We  should  thank  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and  all  those 
working  for  this  great  cause  who  have  made  possible  our  educational 
system.  They  foster  the  great  opportunities  that  we  have  therein.  I 
speak  of  that  subject  definitely  this  morning  because  of  my  close  con- 
tact for  many  years  with  that  particular  work.  I  am  convinced  that 
the  educational  program  is  completely  in  line  with  the  gospel  as  re- 
vea'led  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith — that  man  "cannot  be  saved  in 
ignorance";  that  "we  are  saved  no  faster  than  we  gain  knowledge"; 
that  "the  glory  of  God  is  intelligence."  The  educational  program 
is  also  definitely  in  line  with  the  practices  of  the  Church  from  the 
beginning,  during  pioneer  days,  and  on  down  to  the  present  time. 
We  are  a  group  of  people  who  know  that  we  must  gain  knowledge  of 
truth  in  order  that  we  may  progress  on  to  godhood.  So  I  do  express 
my  appreciation  to  the  First  Presidency  and  their  associates  for  the 
privilege  I  have  had  of  spending  seventeen  years  in  that  very  excel- 
lent work  and  also  for  all  the  opportunities  that  I  have  had  in  the 
Church. 

When  I  completed  my  doctor's  degree  in  California,  I  was  giv- 
en the  opportunity  to  teach  at  the  institute  in  Logan.  I  was  delight- 
ed; but  when  I  went  down  to  California  and  told  the  professors 
under  whom  I  had  taken  my  graduate  work,  they  tried  to  persuade 
me  to  not  come  back  to  Utah  to  teach.  They  wanted  me  to  teach  in 
history,  the  field  .that  I  had  taken  my  special  work  in,  but  I  talked  to 
my  wife — who  is  a  very  faithful  and  devout  Latter-day  Saint  and  a 
splendid  companion — and  her  feelings  agreed  with  mine.  We  recog- 
nized that  we  had  a  great  opportunity  at  Logan  to  help  the  young 
people  of  the  Church,  and  we  felt  that  we  wanted  to  rear  our  family 
in  Utah,  and  so  we  turned  our  backs  upon  that  suggestion  and  re- 
turned to  our  home  state.   We  have  been  very  happy  in  our  decision. 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7.  Second  Day 

Personal  Testimonies 

Before  closing  my  remarks,  I  would  like  to  bear  my  testimony. 
I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  the  Christ  is  his  Beloved 
Son.  He  is  the  Savior  of  the  world,  the  Redeemer,  the  author  of  the 
eternal  plan  of  salvation.  I  know  that  God,  the  Eternal  Father, 
through  his  only  begotten  son,  restored  the  gospel  upon  the  earth 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  our  dispensation;  that  it  is  the 
true  gospel;  that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  I  know  that  if 
we  live  by  these  eternal  principles  we  shall  gain  a  great  reward,  even 
that  of  eternal  life  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  know  that  our  Heaven- 
ly Father  is  good;  that  he  hears  and  answers  prayers;  that  he  is 
gracious  and  kind  even  beyond  our  comprehension;  and  that  he  de- 
lights in  blessing  those  who  keep  his  commandments.  The  Holy 
Ghost  has  borne  this  testimony  to  my  soul  so  strongly  that  I  am  as 
sure  of  these  facts  as  I  am  that  I  live.  I  pray  that  I  may  ever  live 
worthy  enough  to  retain  this  testimony. 

Everyone  in  this  audience  no  doubt  has  had  many  experiences 
which  to  them  have  testified  to  the  goodness  of  God  and  which  have 
given  them  a  testimony  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  restored  gospel. 
Herein  lies  the  strength  of  Mormonism.  I  would  like  to  give  an  ex- 
perience or  two  of  mine. 

At  least  twice  in  my  life  I  was  at  the  point  of  death  and  was 
brought  back  to  life  through  the  power  of  the  priesthood,  through 
the  goodness  of  God.  One  June  day  when  I  was  twenty-one  years 
old,  I  had  climbed  the  hay  pole  to  thread  it  in  order  that  we  might 
harvest  our  crop.  Just  as  I  had  finished,  the  guy  wire  broke,  and  the 
pole  came  crashing  to  the  earth.  It  splintered  into  many  pieces.  The 
hayfork  lit  with  the  tines  straight  up  just  a  few  feet  from  where  I  lit. 
Although  I  fell  nearly  fifty  feet,  the  only  injury  that  I  received  was 
a  broken  foot.  Of  course  the  shock  was  terrific.  I  went  to  bed,  and 
the  next  day  I  thought  I  could  get  up.  I  crawled  out  of  bed  and  im- 
mediately everything  went  black,  but  through  the  power  of  God  I 
was  restored  to  health  and  strength. 

Eleven  years  later,  when  I  finished  my  doctor's  degree,  ■  my 
physical  condition  was  poor  because  I  had  worked  very  hard.  I  was 
teaching  seminary  in  Provo.  In  November  I  went  to  Salt  Lake  City 
and  had  my  wisdom  teeth  extracted.  On  the  way  home  a  storm 
arose  and  within  twenty-four  hours  I  was  seriously  ill.  A  strepto- 
coccus infection  had  settled  in  my  throat,  and  for  the  next  three 
weeks  I  lay  at  the  point  of  death.  The  doctor  had  no  hopes  that  I 
would  recover.  The  bishop  came  to  our  home,  and  as  kindly  as  he 
could,  told  my  wife  I  should  not  be  able  to  recover.  But  the  seminary 
teachers  I  worked  with  came  daily  and  administered  to  me.  Never 
once  did  I  have  the  thought  in  my  mind  that  I  would  not  get  well.  I 
knew  there  were  many  things  in  this  world  that  I  was  to  do  yet.  In 
three  weeks'  time  I  got  out  of  bed  and  went  back  to  my  schoolroom. 
It  took  a  year,  however,  to  get  the  infection  out  of  my  system.    I  am 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


75 


sure  that  it  was  through  the  help  and  blessings  of  God  that  I  was  re- 
stored to  life.  Upon  returning  to  my  school,  the  students  asked  me 
to  what  I  attributed  my  recovery  from  such  a  severe  sickness.  I 
testified  to  them  on  that  occasion,  and  have  done  so  on  many  oc- 
casions since,  that  it  was  through  the  power  of  the  priesthood  and 
because  of  the  goodness  of  God  that  my  life  was  preserved. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  today  that  I  know  these  things  are 
true  and  that  my  Heavenly  Father  has  been  kind  and  good  to  me, 
blessing  me  more  abundantly  than  I  have  deserved.  I  sincerely  hope 
and  pray  that  1  have  the  full  support  and  the  faith  of  all  the  members 
of  the  Church  and  the  same  help  from  God  in  the  performance  of 
my  duties  as  a  member  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy.  This 
is  my  humble  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

President  Grant,  President  Clark,  President  McKay,  members 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  brethren:  I  am  truly  grateful  at 
this  time  for  the  inspired  leadership  of  this  Church  as  manifested  in 
the  selection  of  these  two  very  fine  brethren,  Elder  Dilworth  Young 
and  Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  to  succeed  those  two  great  missionaries, 
members  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  who  were  recently  re- 
leased from  their  earthly  missions,  Presidents  Bennion  and  Hardy, 
and  I  am  sure  that  they  also  are  pleased  with  these  very  fine  selec- 
tions. 

Suggestions  for  Postwar  Planning 

One  of  the  four  new  features  in  this  year's  program  for  stake 
quarterly  conferences  is  the  outlining,  or  partially  so,  of  the  general 
priesthood  session.  One  of  the  topics  suggested  in  the  quarterly 
conference  emphasizing  elders'  work  is:  "Quorum  responsibility  in 
postwar  readjustment  of  soldier  quorum  members  (by  a  president 
or  member  of  an  elders'  quorum)." 

Some  excellent  talks  have  been  given;  I  believe  one  or  two  of 
them  should  be  published.  As  a  result  of  these  talks  and  discussions 
in  the  priesthood  leadership  meetings — another  new  feature  of  this 
year's  conference  program — a  number  of  the  quorums  have  already 
initiated  some  definite  postwar  plans.  I  shall  not  take  time  to  dis- 
cuss these  projects,  nor  those  already  under  way  in  the  wards  spon- 
sored by  the  ward  welfare  committees,  as  I  should  like  to  use  the 
time  allotted  to  me  in  a  brief  reference  to  a  certain  phase  of  postwar 
planning  in  the  home — planning  on  the  part  of  different  members 
of  the  family. 

After  all,  the  thoughts  of  our  boys  in  the  service  are  centered 
about  loved  ones  at  home — these  thoughts  spur  them  on  to  give  the 
best  they  have  to  our  country — many  of  them  have  already  given 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7 


Second  Dag 


their  all  in  their  effort  to  bring  this  terrible  war  to  an  end  so  they  can 
come  home  as  soon  as  possible. 

An  article  in  a  recent  issue  of  the  Reader's  Digest  illustrates 
this  point: 

One  evening  in  Albany,  New  York,  I  asked  a  sailor  what  time  it  was. 
He  pulled  out  a  huge  watch  and  replied,  "It  is  7:20."  I  knew  it  was  later. 
"Your  watch  has  stopped,  hasn't  it?"  I  asked. 

"No,"  he  said,  "I'm  still  on  mountain  standard  time.  I'm  from  southern 
Utah.  When  I  joined  the  navy,  Pa  gave  me  this  watch.  He  said  it'd 
help  me  to  remember  home. 

"When  my  watch  says  5  a.m.  I  know  Dad  is  rolling  out  to  milk  the 
cows.  And  any  night  when  it  says  7:30  I  know  the  whole  family's  around 
a  well-spread  table,  and  Dad's  thanking  God  for  what's  on  it  and  asking 
him  to  watch  over  me.   I  can  almost  smell  the  hot  biscuits  and  bacon. 

"It's  thinking  about  these  things  that  makes  we  want  to  fight  when 
the  going  gets  tough,"  he  concluded.  "I  can  find  out  what  time  it  is  where 
I  am  easy  enough.   What  I  want  to  know  is  what  time  it  is  in  Utah." 

What  kind  of  planning  can  be  done  to  make  the  homecoming 
even  greater  than  their  dreams?  What  can  fathers  do? 

About  two  years  ago  a  young  sailor  in  whom  I  had  shown  an 
interest  called  at  my  office.  He  told  how  he  had  enjoyed  himself  at 
the  training  center  at  Farragut;  of  the  Sunday  School  where  about 
ninety  percent  of  the  more  than  two  'hundred  stationed  there  would 
attend  every  Sunday,  but  his  face  fairly  beamed  and  his  eyes  moist- 
ened when  he  said:  "My  father  has  quit  the  use  of  tobacco;  he 
stopped  soon  after  I  enlisted,  so  mother  told  me,  and  is  now  attend- 
ing his  priesthood  meetings."  Not  so  many  fathers  in  the  Church 
are  users  of  tobacco;  it  may  be  something  else,  such  as  fishing,  or 
hunting,  or  working  in  the  fields  on  Sunday  that  keeps  them  away 
from  priesthood  and  sacrament  meetings;  whatever  it  is,  I  commend 
to  all  such  the  course  taken  by  the  father  of  this  young  sailor. 

The  breaking  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  or  the  Sabbath  day, 
applies  to  a  comparatively  few,  but  nearly  all  fathers  could  plan  a 
pleasant  surprise  for  their  boys  by  being  a  little  kinder,  more 
thoughtful  and  considerate  in  and  around  the  home,  and  express  ap- 
preciation for  services  rendered. 

The  snake  crawls  out  in  the  sun  to  get  warm,  and  crawls  back  under 
the  rocks — voiceless.  The  bird  comes  out  into  the  sun  and  sings  his  grati- 
tude and  expresses  his  thanks  for  the  sunshine.   Everyone  loves  a  bird. 

I  like  the  words  "continuous  courtship"  with  reference  to  home 
life.  Wlien  we  were  courting  and  in  the  early  days  of  our  married 
life,  we  would  always  express  our  appreciation  for  the  well-cooked 
meal,  the  extra  dessert;  we  occasionally  brought  home  a  bouquet  of 
flowers  or  a  box  of  candy.  If  some  husbands  did  that  now,  the  wife 
would  probably  ask,  "Is  there  anything  wrong?" 

So  much  for  the  father's  preparation.  What  about  the  mother? 
As  a  general  rule  she  is  just  about  right.  She  writes  the  letters,  pre- 
pares and  sends  the  cookies  and  other  surprise  packages.  We  hope 
that  these  mothers  will  take  care  of  themselves,  so  that  they  will  look 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


77 


just  as  young,  or  even  younger,  when  the  boys  come  home,  as  when 
they  left;  they  might  even  indulge  in  a  new  dress,  or  a  visit  to  a  hair- 
dresser.' Once  in  a  while,  however,  we  do  find  a  mother  or  wife 
who  scolds,  or  is  given  to  nagging.  Speaking  of  nagging,  may  I 
quote  the  following : 

A  chaplain,  after  expressing  the  wish  that  those  at  home  would  spare 
their  kinsmen  in  uniform,  news  of  troubles  about  which  nothing  can  be 
done,  adds:  You  have  heard  of  the  husband  who  wrote  to  his  wife: 
"Please  do  not  write  any  more  nagging  letters.  I  am  five  thousand  miles 
away  and  it  doesn't  do  any  good.  And  besides,  I  want  to  fight  this  war 
in  peace." 

What  a  joy  it  will  be  for  the  big  brother  in  uniform  to  come 
home  and  find  the  children  so  grown  up;  and  what  a  thrill  it  will  be 
to  find  more  thoughtfulness,  courtesy,  and  love  manifested  toward 
one  another.  What  a  surprise  to  find  the  young  brother  as  tall  and 
straight  and  clean  as  the  soldier  brother  himself,  and  the  baby  sister, 
after  three  or  even  more  years*  absence,  blooming  into  young  wom- 
anhood— even  engaged,  or  perhaps  married.  There  are  hundreds, 
even  thousands  of  our  girls  either  engaged  or  married.  And  what 
about  postwar  planning  on  the  part  of  these  young  girls  and  war 
brides?  I  am  taking  the  liberty  to  quote  four  short  paragraphs  from 
a  talk  by  a  chaplain  given  to  young  husbands  and  prospective  hus- 
bands, and  I  ask  the  young  wives  and  sweethearts  to  apply  the  ad- 
vice to  themselves  and  use  it  in  their  postwar  planning.  It  is  entitled 
"An  Appeal  to  Sportsmanship." 

The  Meaning  of  Sportsmanship 

We  in  America  pride  ourselves  on  our  sportsmanship,  on  our  love  of 
fair  play.  If  a  fellow  is  running  the  440-yard  dash,  we  like  to  see  him  cross 
the  finish  line  even  though  all  the  other  runners  have  already  finished. 
Even  men  and  women  who  make  no  claim  to  being  religious  speak  with 
disgust  of  unfairness.  The  bum  on  the  street  will  boo  the  man  in  the  ring 
when  he  fights  dirty.   Fair  play  and  Americanism  go  hand  in  hand. 

This  same  spirit  of  fair  play,  should  prevail  in  the  matter  of  clean 
living.  Some  of  you  men  are  married.  That  fact  in  itself  should  challenge 
you  to  play  fair  with  that  wife  of  yours.  You  have  no  right  to  expect 
more  of  her  than  you  are  willing  to  give.  Be  as  good  a  man  when  you  go 
home  as  when  you  left,  and  you  can  expect  her  to  be  as  good  a  woman. 
[May  I  add,  Be  as  good  a  woman  when  he  comes  home  as  when  he  kissed 
you  good-bye.] 

Some  of  you  fellows  aren't  married.  I  believe  that  all  of  you,  when" 
you  get  ready  to  marry,  will  want  a  girl  who  is  pure  and  clean.  Then  be 
fair  with  her.  Give  her  as  good  a  man  as  she  is  a  woman. 

That  is  Americanism.  That  is  sportsmanship.  That  is  fair  play.  That 
is  what  we  pride  ourselves  on  in  America,  the  giving  as  good  as  we  expect 
to  receive.  . 

Greater  Production  Necessary 

I  haven't  time,  as  I  have  stated,  to  speak  of  postwar  planning 
in  the  wards  and  the  quorums.    But  I  would  like  to  urge  the  ward 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Dag 

welfare  committees  to  devote  much  of  their  time  upon  this  very  im- 
portant subject,  emphasizing  especially  production.  Encourage 
home  gardens,  welfare  gardens,  processing  of  all  kinds  of  foods.  I 
am  very  grateful  that  President  Clark  said  what  he  did  about  pro- 
duction. I  thought  immediately  about  our  members  and  friends  in 
the  war-torn  countries  in  our  European  missions.  We  still  hear 
from  some  of  them  and  about  them  through  some  of  our  servicemen. 
They  are  still  carrying  on.  This  cablegram  was  received  this  morn- 
ing.   It  is  dated  April  6th,  Basel,  Switzerland,  Leimenstr.  49: 

Reports  from  European  Missions 

Swiss  Saints  send  greetings  and  best  wishes  to  you  and  other  General 
Authorities  and  brethren  assembled  in  conference.  Just  finished  most  suc- 
cessful missionwide  Easter  convention  attended  by  two  thousand  Saints 
and  friends.  Received  news  from  boys  in  German  prisoners'  camp. 
(Signed)  Max  Zimmer. 

I  have  a  few  interesting  letters  recently  received,  but  will  not 
have  time  to  read  them.  I  may  get  permission  to  publish  them.  I 
will  say,  however,  that  after  five  years  of  this  unprecedented  horrible 
destruction,  the  food  shortage  is  becoming  increasingly  desperate. 
The  concluding  sentence  of  a  letter  from  a  brother  in  southern 
France  says:  "We  have  all  suffered  from  hunger  and  cold,  but  the 
members  still  have  faith  in  God  and  are  awaiting  the  return  of  the 
missionaries." 

All  our  European  missions  are  fairly  well  supplied  with  money, 
but  when  there  is  no  food  to  buy,  money  doesn't  help  much.  In  ar- 
ranging the  annual  churchwide  welfare  budget  for  1945,  the  gen- 
eral committee  assigned  everything  in  commodities,  but  in  the  break- 
down by  the  regional  committees  to  the  stakes,  and  the  stakes  to 
the  quorums  and  wards,  in  all  too  many  cases  the  line  of  least  resist- 
ance has  been  followed  and  assessments  in  cash  substituted  for  com- 
modities. So,  instead  of  so  many  hundred  pounds  of  butter,  for 
example,  we  have  so  many  dollars  earmarked  butter;  instead  of  so 
many  tons  of  sugar  beets,  dollars  again,  earmarked  sugar;  beef, 
chickens,  and  cheese,  and  processed  commodities  the  same.  What 
our  members  need  is  food,  not  money — even  earmarked  money.  It 
is  a  joy  in  visiting  some  of  the  outlying  stakes  to  find  that  as  usual 
our  Relief  Societies,  our  wives  and  mothers  have  followed  counsel 
and  have  their  basements  and  cellars  filled  to  overflowing  with  suf- 
ficient processed  foods  to  last  from  one  to  three  and  four  years.  This 
is  as  it  should  be — each  family  self-supporting,  with  a  small  surplus 
for  emergencies,  or  calamities,  such  as  we  have  at  present  in  the 
world. 

If  the  way  should  be  opened  up  in  the  very  near  future,  and  we 
hope  and  pray  that  it  will  be,  to  get  the  necessary  help  to  our  mem- 
bers and  friends  who  are  hungry,  and  some  of  them  starving,  it  will 
be  from  these  private  storehouses  that  much  of  the  processed  food 
and  clothing  will  have  to  come. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


79 


In  conclusion,  may  I  plead  that  we  as  a  people — as  a  nation — 
be  less  wasteful.  If  we  are  served  more  than  we  can  comfortably 
eat,  have  a  "portion"  of  it  returned  so  it  will  not  be  wasted.  In  the 
United  States  enough  food  is  wasted,  it  is  said,  to  feed  all  the  people 
in  the  war-torn  countries  of  Europe. 

May  our  boys  and  men  and  women  in  uniform,  when  they  re- 
turn, find  us  all  less  wasteful,  more  thrifty,  and  cooperative,  and  may 
they  find  more  unity,  and  faith,  and  love  in  our  quorums,  our  wards, 
and  especially  in  our  homes,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

It  would  not  require  much  to  convince  me,  my  brethren,  that  these 
semi-annual  general  conferences  come  every  few  days.  If  you  know 
someone  whom  you  would  like  to  age  rapidly,  just  give  him  some  re- 
curring responsibility  concerning  any  part  of  these  proceedings.  It 
is  something  of  an  assignment  to  watch  the  clock,  and  to  watch  Presi- 
dent Clark  and  President  McKay,  and  to  watch  you,  and  to  think, 
and  to  speak  at  the  same  time.  I  read  not  so  long  ago  an  article  con- 
cerning the  responsibility  of  those  who-  speak  and  write  in  time  of  war, 
but  I  am  convinced  that  the  gravity  of  this  responsibility  is  not  limited 
to  wartime.  Those  who  speak  or  write,  any  time,  for  the  influencing 
of  others,  have  one  of  the  greatest  responsibilities,  and  surely  one 
which  we  should  not  care  to  undertake  in  these  gatherings  without 
the  sustaining  help  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

Good  Government  and  Good  Men 

There  has  been  running  through  my  mind  a  statement  by  Wil- 
liam Penn:  "If  men  be  good,  government  can  not  be  bad."  At  first 
I  was  inclined  to  challenge  it  seriously,  as  we  are  inclined  to  challenge 
all  statements  of  broad  generalization.  I  challenged  it  because  I 
thought  of  all  the  exceptions  to  the  rule.  I  thought  of  all  the  peoples, 
historically  and  also  in  the  present,  who  had  become  captive  peoples 
and  oppressed  peoples  quite  beyond  their  choice  or  their  power  to 
resist.  I  thought  of  all  the  straight-thinking  minorities  who  have  re- 
sisted the  popular  fallacies  in  every  generation  and  in  every  country. 
But  I  became  convinced,  as  I  thought  further  through  William  Penn's 
statement,  that  it  had  a  broad  and  fundamental  truth  in  it:  "If  men 
be  good,  government  can  not  be  bad" —  in  the  long  view  of  things,  and 
admitting  all  the  exceptions. 

Individuals  Share  Responsibility  In  World  Affairs 

For  convenience,  historians  have  written  history  in  a  manner  that 
gives  emphasis  to  a  comparatively  few  individuals — as  though  Alex- 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Dag 

ander  the  Great  conquered  the  world.  ( We  don't  hear  much  about  all 
of  those  who  followed  Alexander  the  Great  and  made  this  possible )  — 
or  as  though  Hannibal  did  what  he  did,  individually;  or  the  Caesars, 
or  the  Pharaohs.  Even  though  historians  concentrate  upon  and  would 
make  history  seem  to  be  the  doings  of  one  man,  or  a  few,  in  every  gen- 
eration, in  every  country,  yet  the  great  host  of  men  and  women  who 
follow  them  carry  their  share  of  the  responsibility,  not  discounting  the 
importance  of  leadership,  good  or  bad. 

We  are  inclined  to  repeat  this  fallacy  of  history  in  our  own  gen- 
eration, if  we  are  not  careful.  We  have  had  the  opportunity  of  observ- 
ing at  close  range  the  leaders  of  the  world  in  our  generation  perhaps 
more  intimately  than  in  any  other,  for  many  centuries  past,  because 
of  our  facilities  for  rapid  communication  and  travel  in  these  days. 
We  have  heard  the  voices,  read  the  thoughts,  and  have  seen  both  in 
picture  and  in  reality  many  of  the  leading  figures  of  our  own  day — 
and  we  are  likely  to  think,  if  we  are  not  careful,  that  all  the  acts  of 
each  nation  head  up  in  one  man,  or  in  a  handful  of  men,  that  all  of  the 
troubles  stem  from  them.  We  may  think,  as  Brother  Bowen  sug- 
gested yesterday,  that  the  war  is  the  cause  rather  than  the  result  of 
our  difficulties. 

We  are  apt  to  over-simplify  history  both  current  and  past,  and 
to  look  for  scapegoats  and  to  fix  responsibility  too  conveniently;  but 
I  am  sure  that  if  we  will,  think  a  little  more  closely  we  will  be  impressed 
with  the  truth  that  a  man  isn't  a  leader  unless  he  has  followers,  and 
that  he  couldn't  accomplish  those  things  which  he  does  accomplish 
unless  a  very  considerable  number  of  people  were  willing  that  he 
should  accomplish  those  things. 

I  am  reminded  of  one  of  the  statements  of  Heber  C.  Kimball,  . 
who,  in  his  characteristic  and  colorful  way  said,  "I  will  tell  you,  the 
Devil  has  his  smart  men."1  Even  Satan  would  be  impotent  unless  he 
had  a  considerable  following;  and  so  I  say,  going  back  to  William 
Penn,  whenever  and  wherever  there  is  deterioration  in  government, 
the  people  may  look  to  themselves.  Whenever  and  wherever  there  is 
corruption,  the  people  may  look  to  themselves.  Whenever  and  where- 
ever  there  is  flagrant  public  waste,  the  people  may  look  to  themselves. 
Whenever  and  wherever  there  is  loss  of  freedom,  the  people  may  look 
to  themselves.  I  am  sure  that  no  man,  great  though  he  may  be,  or 
potentially  great  in  the  powers  of  leadership,  could  accomplish  much 
of  his  purposes  without  a  considerable  following;  and  our  responsibil- 
tiy  for  our  allegiance  as  followers  is  likewise  great. 

Of  course  we  know  that  anyone  who  opposes  a  profitable  evil  or 
anyone  who  opposes  a  popular  fallacy  is  certain  to  be  deliberately  mis- 
understood. Nevertheless  every  generation  and  every  people  have 
produced  those  straight-thinking  minorities  who  have  seen  what  they 
have  seen  and  who  have  felt  an  obligation  to  say  what  they  have  said; 
and  any  man  who  sees  his  own  generation  headed  for  a  precipice  at 


'Heber  C.  Kimball,  Journal  of  Discourses,  Vol,  VI,  p.  35, 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


81 


the  bottom  of  which  lie  tragedy,  destruction,  sorrow,  and  misfortune, 
cannot  honorably  remain  silent.  He  has  an  obligation  to  speak,  even 
though  he  be  misunderstood,  and  even  though  false  charges  be  levied 
against  him.   This  is  true  at  all  places  in  the  world  at  all  times. 

President  Brigham  Young's  View  of  Leadership 

We  have  a  leadership  in  this  Church,  who  have  an  obligation,  as 
President  Grant  stated  yesterday  morning,  to  instruct  this  people  to 
do  anything  which  the  Lord  inspires  them  to  do,  and  I  am  sure  that 
we  must  understand  the  authorities  in  their  fulfilling  of  this  obligation. 
I  am  sure  that  the  prophets  of  God  throughout  all  the  ages,  have  not, 
in  most  cases,  seen  the  end  fully  from  the  beginning,  but  it  has  been 
given  unto-  them  to  know  in  what  they  must  instruct  their  people 
whether  they  could  fully  state  the  reasons  or  not.  There  are  many 
things  that  we  must  still  accept  on  faith. 

I  should  like  to  read  you  a  quotation  from  Brigham  Young.  He 
had  his  troubles,  too;  they  are  not  all  confined  to  our  generation.  It 
was  at  the  time  when  the  cornerstones  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  were 
being  laid,  April  6,  1853.  Brother  Brigham  was  the  object  of  much 
criticism.  The  people  had  built  their  temples  in  the  past,  at  Kirtland 
and  Nauvoo,  and  had  had  to  abandon  them.  They  had  many  practi- 
cal problems  facing  them — food,  shelter,  Indians,  and  many  other 
stark  realities  were  pressing  them.  No  doubt  many  of  the  people 
thought  it  was  folly  at  such  a  time  to  undertake  so  great  a  task.  Said 
President  Young: 

Some  will  inquire,  "Do  you  suppose  we  shall  finish  this  temple,  Brother 
Brigham?"  I  have  had  such  questions  put  to  me  already.  My  answer  is, 
I  do  not  know,  and  I  do  not  care.  ...  I  never  have  cared  but  for  one  thing, 
and  that  is,  simply  to  know  that  I  am  now  right  before  my  Father  in  heaven. 
If  I  am  this  moment,  this  day,  doing  the  things  God  requires  of  my  hands, 
and  I  am  precisely  where  my  Father  in  heaven  wants  me  to  be,  I  care  no 
more  about  tomorrow  than  though  it  never  would  come.  I  do  not  know 
where  I  shall  be  tomorrow,  nor  when  this  temple  will  be  done — I  know  no 
more  about  it  than  you  do.  .  .  .  This  I  do  know — there,  should  be  a  temple 
built  here.  I  do  know  it  is  the  duty  of  this  people  to  commence  to  build  a 
temple.' 

I  am  sure  that  this  ties  in  with  the  statement  of  President  Grant 
yesterday  morning.  .  • 

The  Home-coming  of  the  Soldiers 

I  should  like  to  leave  this  subject  for  just  one  moment,  and  close 
with  another  thought  which  has  been  mentioned  by  several  speakers 
at  this  conference,  including  Brother  McKay  previously,  and  read  a 
couplet  which  in  a  very  few  words  states  what  I  think  our  returning 
boys,  who  have  been  serving  their  country,  expect.  It  is  from  a  poem 
by  Kenneth  Parsons,  just  two  lines: 

"Brigham  Young,  Journal  o{  Discourses,  Vol.  I,  p.  132. 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  7  Second  Day 

When  we  come  home  again,  forget  the  band.    Just  have  the  things 
we  fought  for,  understand? 

I  believe  this  is  in  the  heart  of  every  man  who  is  away  from  home, 
in  the  armed  forces.  May  God  grant  that  they  will  return  to  find 
their  homes  as  they  would  have  them;  their  children  reared  in  those 
paths  in  which  they  would  have  guided  them;  and  find  the  free  institu- 
tions and  the  free  enterprise  for  which  they  have  fought;  and  peace 
and  happiness  and  the  opportunity  to  live  in  peace  with  those  they 
love. 

God  lives,  and  has  given  us  life;  he  still  speaks  to  us  through  his 
appointed  servants;  Jesus  is  the  Christ — which  is  the  testimony  I 
leave  with  you,  in  his  name.  Amen. 

President  Clark: 

The  congregation  will  now  sing:  "Lord,  Dismiss  Us  With  Thy 
Blessings,"  Song  Folder  No.  21,  L.D.S.  Hymns  315,  Hymn  Book 
No.  98. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Christian  Call  of 
the  Idaho  Stake,  after  which  this  conference  will  stand  adjourned  un- 
til 2  o'clock  this  afternoon.  The  proceedings  of  the  afternoon  session 
will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  KSUB  at  Cedar 
City.    It  will  also  be  carried  over  KFXD  at  Nampa,  Idaho. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Lord,  Dismiss  Us  With  Thy 
Blessings." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Christian  Call  of 
the  Idaho  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  7,  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall. 

President  Clark: 

This  is  the  fourth  session  of  the  1 1 5th  Annual  Conference  of  the  • 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.    We  are  convened  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  all  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  as  sustained  yesterday,  except  President 
Grant  who  is  at  his  home,  to  which  a  special  wire  has  been  run  from 
the  Assembly  Hall  so  that  he  may  "listen  in." 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


83 


Salt  Lake  City,  and  KSUB  at  Cedar  City.  It  will  also  be  carried  over 
KFXD  at  Nampa,  Idaho.  . 

We  will  begin  the  afternoon  services  by  the  congregation  sing- 
ing: "O  Ye  Mountains  High,"  Song  Folder  No.  12,  L.D.S.  Hymns 
No.  338,  Hymn  Book  No.  317.  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  con- 
duct the  singing;  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Samuel  Pollock 
of  the  Panguitch  Stake. 


The  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High,"  after  which  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Samuel 
Pollock,  President  of  the  Panguitch  Stake. 

The  hymn,  "Do  What  is  Right,"  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  185,  Hymn 
Book  No.  151,  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  very  happy,  brethren,  to  have  the  opportunity  of.  being  at 
this  conference  and  of  speaking  to  you  for  a  few  minutes.  As  has 
been  stated,  we  recently  lost  two  of  the  members  of  our  council,  men 
who  were  great  missionaries,  men  who  had  good  judgment  and  good 
inspiration.  I  am  sure  that  we  will  miss  them;  our  associations  with 
them  have  been  long  and  satisfying.  Men  who  have  been  intimately 
associated  in  a  common  cause  become  very  close  to  each  other.  Sep- 
arations like  this  come  to  all  of  us,  but  with  the  blessings  of  the  Lord, 
other  good  men  are  given  to  us  to  carry  on  the  work.  We  are  grate- 
ful to  have  two  such  good  men  as  Brother  Young  and  Brother  Hunter 
associated  with  us  in  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy.  I  am  quite 
certain  that  we  shall  love  them  and  hope  that  they  will  love  us  and 
that  with  the  blessings  and  inspirations  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  we 
as  a  council  may  be  helpful  in  his  great  missionary  cause. 

Some  of  the  Privileges  of  Citizenship 

Some  time  ago  I  was  in  court  where  there  were  a  number  of 
people  being  examined  as  to  their  qualifications  to  become  citizens 
of  this  great  country  of  ours.  The  judge  asked  one  of  the  men  this 
question:  "What  can  you  receive  as  a  citizen  of  this  country  that 
you  cannot  receive  without  being  a  citizen?"  As  an  alien,  a  man 
could  reside  in  our  country,  could  move  about  in  freedom  from  place 
to  place,  could  have  the  advantages  of  our  schools,  could  have 
police  protection  for  himself  and  family  and  his  business,  .irrespec- 
tive of  the  fact  that  he  was  not  a  citizen.  But  with  all  these  priv- 
ileges, he  was  always  an  alien,  having  no  part  in  the  feeling  and 
enthusiasm  and  love  of  country  that  belong  to  us  as  citizens.  One 
all-important  thing  that  he  was  unable  to  enjoy  was  the  right  of 


84 

Saturday,  April  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


suffrage — the  right  to  vote  and  to  participate  in  the  government, 
in  its  laws  and  regulations.  He  could  not  go  out  and  represent 
or  speak  officially  for  the  country  or  for  the  officers  who  might  be 
elected.  Therefore,  he  failed  to  have  one  of  the  great  things 
we  value  so  much. 

•) 

Blessings  Through  Membership  In  the  Church  1 

We  are  often  asked,  "What  is  there  in  your  Church  that  I  can- 
not receive  without  becoming  a  member?"  Well,  as  a  non-member  of 
the  Church,  he  could  get  all  the  blessings  and  all  the  rewards  that 
have  to  do  with  obedience  to  certain  laws.  He  could  be  clean  and 
receive  from  our  Heavenly  Father  all  of  the  blessings  that  we  receive 
because  of  our  being  clean.  He  could  receive  the  blessings  that  come 
to  one  who  is  honest,  one  who  is  a  good  neighbor,  one  who  is  willing 
to  live  up  to  the  obligations  of  his  country.  He  could  participate  with 
us  in  the  blessings  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  could  have  for  him- 
self that  health  and  strength  and  vitality  that  can  come  to  one  who 
obeys  the  rules  pertaining  to  this  law. 

He  can  have  all  the  blessings  that  come  from  keeping  the  Ten 
Commandments.  By  living  in  harmony  with  the  spirit  of  the  Sermon 
on  the  Mount,  he  can  receive  all  the  blessings  promised  by  the 
Savior. 

That  is  the  thing  about  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  the  Lord. 
It  gives  rewards  to  those  who  merit  them.  It  is  stated  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  that  upon  every  law  there  is  a  blessing  attached;  and 
all  people,  provided  they  can  live  up  to  the  laws  and  regulations, 
will  have  the  promised  blessings  given  to  them.  But  as  in  the  case 
of  citizenship,  there  are  some  things  that  simply  cannot  come  to  a 
man  without  his  becoming  a  member  of  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
our  Heavenly  Father. 

The  priesthood  of  God  is  one  such  thing.  This  priesthood  can 
come  only  from  God  himself  or  from  those  who  are  delegated  to  hold 
the  priesthood  and  give  it  to  somebody  else.  You  remember  the 
case  of  the  lame  man,  sitting  in  front  of  the  temple.  When  Peter 
and  John  came  along,  he  asked  for  alms.    Peter  said  to  him: 

.  .  .  Silver  and  gold  have  I  none;  but  such  as  I  have  give  I  thee:  In 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth  rise  up  and  walk.  (Acts  3:6.) 

•  No  man  has  the  authority  to  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  un- 
less he  holds  the  priesthood  of  God. 

You  remember  the  occasion  when  the  seven  sons  of  Sceva  try- 
ing to  do  the  things  that  Paul  had  been  doing  said  unto  a  man  who 
was  afflicted,  ".  .  .  We  adjure  you  by  Jesus  whom  Paul  preacheth," 
and  the  spirit  returned  the  answer,  "Jesus  I  know,  and  Paul  I  know; 
but  who  are  ye?"  (Acts  19:13,  15.)  God  has  always  limited  the 
power  and  the  right  to  speak  in  his  name  to  the  men  who  hold  his 
Holy  Priesthood.    Because  of  this  priesthood  we  have  a  number  of 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


85 


blessings  that  no  one  else  can  have.  Others  may  wish  them;  they 
may  desire  them,  but  the  only  way  they  can  have  them  is  by  becom- 
ing members  of  his  Church. 

One  blessing  of  membership  is  that  men  and  women  when  en- 
tering into  holy  matrimony  may  be  sealed  for  time  and  eternity  and 
not  only  have  each  other,  but  also  have  their  children.  Only  in  the 
temples  of  the  Lord  can  this  work  be  done.  Another  blessing  of 
membership  is  the  constant  direction  by  men  who  speak  and  act  and 
are  called  by  God  to  preside  over  the  Church.  We  are  never  left 
without  guidance  and  without  help  to  meet  life's  changing  problems. 

As  members  of  the  Church,  we  have  the  privilege  and  oppor- 
tunity of  doing  missionary  work.  Men  and  women  can  go  out  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  as  they  may  be  called.  Men  have  the  right  to 
act  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  and  when  they  teach,  they  teach  correct 
doctrine.  When  they  perform  certain  ordinances  they  perform 
those  ordinances  according  to  the  laws  and  regulations  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father,  and  they  are  done  right,  and  when  these  things  are  per- 
formed men  and  women  are  truly  members  of  the  Church  and  king- 
dom of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Missionary  Work  In  the  Stakes  ' 

Just  in  passing  I  would  like  to  say  a  Word  about  our  missionaries 
In  the  hands  of  the  brethren  who  have  met  together  today  rests  the 
responsibility  for  the  amount  of.  missionary  work  that  will  be  done  in 
the  Church.  You  men  are  the  leaders  in  our  stakes  and  in  our  wards, 
and  it  is  through  your  recommendations  that  members  are  called  to 
become  missionaries.  When  we  have  a  ward  or  a  stake  that  thorough- 
ly believes  in  the  great  work  that  God  has  given  us  to  do  as  a  Church, 
we  find  that  we  have  a  great  missionary  corps  of  men  and  women 
preaching  the  gospel.  Where  presiding  men  are  not  thoroughly  en- 
thusiastic or  converted  to  the  missionary  cause,  we  have  stakes  and 
wards  where  not  much  is  done  in  the  missionary  line.  It  is  quite  true, 
brethren,  that  all  the  priesthood  of  the  Lord  can  be  used  in  preaching 
the  gospel.  Those  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  can  be  authorized 
and  sent  out  to  preach  the  gospel,  if  necessary,  and  women  can  be 
called  to  go  out  and  preach  the  gospel;  but  to  those  holding  the  special 
calling  of  seventies  there  has  been  given  the  obligation  that  they  shall 
preach  and  teach  the  gospel.  We  are  in  hopes,  brethren,  you  leading 
men  who  have  this  great  responsibility  in  your  hands  will  see  that  our 
seventies  shall  have  the  opportunity  of  magnifying  their  calling 
through  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that,  if  necessary,  they 
may  be  released  from  other  duties  so  that  they  may  preach  the  gospel 
either  out  in  the  world  or  in  the  missions  of  your  stakes.  I  am  quite 
certain  if  we  could  get  the  seventies  necessary  for  missionary  work 
that  we  would  be  able  to  bring  men  and  women  into  the  Church  who 
are  at  present  running  to  and  fro  and  cannot  understand  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  because  there  is  no  preacher  or  no  teacher. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Understanding  Increased  Through  Study 


Through  membership  we  have  a  right  to  understand  more  about 
the  work  of  the  Lord.  Because  of,  the  additional  things  that  have 
come  to  us  by  way  of  revelation,  instead  of  having  only  the  Bible  we 
have  in  addition,  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  These  enable  us  to  understand  what  God 
expects  us  to  do  here  upon  the  earth,  that  we  may  walk  more  uprightly 
and  more  sincerely  than  we  could  without  the  additional  evidence  and 
the  additional  testimony  that  come  from  these  great  revelations  of  the 
Lord.  In  addition,  because  of  our  faith  and  membership,  we  have 
the  privilege  of  understanding  doctrines  that  are  not  generally  under- 
stood by  the  world,  such  as  pre-existence,  salvation  for  the  dead,  and 
the  resurrection  with  its  three  glories.  Our  understanding  is  in- 
creased, and  we  gain  strength  from  many  things  that  the  Lord  has  re- 
vealed to  us  for  our  consolation,  for  our  blessing,  and  for  our  encour- 
agement. 

May  the  Lord  J)less  us  and  help  us  to  value  our  membership  in 
the  Church  and  our  citizenship  in  the  great  kingdom,  of  the  Lord,  that 
we  shall  not  only  use  the  things  that  are  easy  for  us  to  understand  and 
to  use,  but  that  we  shall  search  deeply  into  the  ways  of  the  Lord  and 
make  use  of  all  the  principles  and  the  doctrines  and  live  by  all  of  the 
standards  of  the  Church,  I  pray,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
As  a  preface  to  what  I  would  like  to  say  this  afternoon,  I  read 
the  following  from  President  Grant's  message: 

I  believe  that  the  elders  of  Israel  in  all  the  different  wards  and  stakes 
of  Zion  earnestly  desire  to  know  the  mind  and  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
and  that  they  are  ready  and  willing  to  do  anything  that  is  within  their  pow- 
er to  fulfill  that  mind  and  that  will  and  to  carry  it  out  in  their  lives. 

It  is  a  great  responsibility  to  address  a  general  conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  feel  that  re- 
sponsibility keenly.  I  pray  that  I  may  be  responsive  to  the  Holy 
Spirit  and  that  what  I  say  will  bring  comfort  to  the  hearts  of  those 
who  listen,  and  at  the  same  time  stimulate  us  all  to  examine  ourselves 
and  determine  more  fully  to  do  our  Father's  will,  which,  if  we  do, 
will  bring  us  peace  in  this  world  and  finally  immortality  and  eternal 
life  in  his  presence. 


To  seek  to  know  the  Father's  will  and  to  comply  therewith  does 
not  mean  abject  submission  to  an  arbitrary  superior  force,  but  rather 
bringing  ourselves  into  harmony  with  the  laws  and  principles  pre- 
vailing in  an  orderly  universe.   It  is  the  only  way  by-  which  we  may 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


Doing  the  Will  of  God  Brings  Peace 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


87 


be  at  peace  in  the  earth  and  eventually  rise  to  our  high  destiny  as 
the  children  of  God. 

It  is  the  path  trod  by  our  Savior.  He  is  our  great  example.  The 
earliest  words  spoken  by  him  of  which  we  have  record  were,  as  re- 
corded in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price:  "...  Father,  thy  will  be  done, 
and  the  glory  be  thine  forever."  (Moses  4:2.)  You  are  all  familiar 
with  the  setting.  It  was  in  the  spirit  world  when  the  Father's  plan, 
whereby  his  children  would  be  advanced  to  their  second  estate,  was 
submitted. 

The  •plan  required  a  redeemer..  Two  of  the  Father's  sons  pre- 
sented themselves  for  that  important  role — Jesus  and  Lucifer.  The 
offer  of  Jesus  was  sublime  in  its  simple  grandeur.  "Father,  thy  will 
be  done,  and  the  glory  be  thine  forever."  This  statement  reveals  at 
once  the  greatness  of  his  soul  and  also  the  source  of  his  strength 
and  power. 

Lucifer's  offer  was  not  in  the  same  sweet,  humble  spirit.  He 
was  conscious  that  he  had  a  brilliant  intellect,  and  he  wanted  to  be 
independent  in  the  use  of  his  own  intelligence.  He  could  not  bring 
himself  to  consecrate  his  powers  to  the  doing  of  the  Father's  will; 
he  wanted  the  Father's  glory;  and  so  he  proposed  a  substitute  plan 
of.  his  own.  If  was,  of  course,  unworkable  because  conceived  in 
darkness,  as  is  every  plan  which  is  contrary  to  the  Father's  will,  and 
was  rejected.  Jesus  was  chosen  to  be  the  Redeemer.  Lucifer  and 
his  followers,  instead  of  submitting  to  the  deecision  and  bringing 
themselves  into  harmony  with  the  will  of  the  Father,  rebelled,  waged 
war  in  heaven,  and  were  cast  out.  They  have  never  since  enjoyed 
peace  and  contentment  and  they  never  will,  for  they  cannot  say,  in 
the  spirit  of  Jesus,  "Father,  thy  will  be  done,"  and  there  is  no  one 
in  heaven,  whether  heaven  is  thought  of  as  a  place  or  a  condition, 
who  is  not  in  harmony  with  the  Father's  will. 

In  fulfilment  of  the.  Father's  plan,  Jesus  came  to  earth  and  here, 
as  before,  taught  by  precept  and  example  the  truth  that  the  way  to 
peace  and  happiness  and  union  with  God  is  to  learn  his  will  and  do  it. 

He  taught  us  to  pray  unto  the  Father: 

.  .  .  Thy  will  be  done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven.  (Matt.  6:10.) 

And  in  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount: 

Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me.  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heav- 
en. (Matt.  7:21.) 

When  the  Jews  marveled  at  his  teachings,  he  declared: 

My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  his 
will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine:,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I 
speak  of  myself.    (John  7:16-17.) 

Urged  by  his  disciples  to  eat,  he  said: 

My  meat  is  to  do  the  will  of  him  that  sent  me.  (John  4:34.)  I  can  of 
mine  own  self  do  nothing;  as  I  hear,  I  judge:  and  my  judgment  is  just; 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Day 


because  I  seek  not  mine  own  will,  but  the  will  of  the  Father  which  hath  sent 
me.  (John  5:30.)  I  came  down  from  heaven,  .  .  .  not  to  do  mine  own  will, 
but  the  will  of  him  that  sent  me.  (John  6:38.) 

Jesus  held  true  to  this  course,  even  through  Gethsemane  where 
he  bore  the  sins  of  all  men  through  suffering  which  caused  him — 

...  to  tremble  because  of  pain,  and  to  bleed  at  every  pore,  and  to  suf- 
fer both  body  and  spirit.  (Doc.  -and  Cov.  19:18.) 

As  he  came  to  the  climax  of  that  suffering,  he  cried  out  in  agony: 

.  .  .  Father,  if  thou  be  willing,  remove  this  cup  from  me;  nevertheless 
not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done.  (Luke  22:42.) 

Thus  he  partook  and  finished  his  preparations  unto  the  chil- 
dren of  men  as  he  had  undertaken  them,  submissive  to  and  guided 
by  "the  Father's  will." 

What  a  difference  it  would  make  in  the  conditions  of  the  world 
today  if  all  leaders  of  nations  and  all  peoples  were  seeking  to  know 
and  do  the  Father's  will!  What  peace  would  come  into  the  world 
and  what  peace  does  come  into  the  hearts  of  individuals  as  they  ac- 
quire such  a  state  of  mind  and  act  upon  it!  The  happiest  and  most 
successful  people  in  the  earth  are  those  who,  knowing  the  will  of  the 
Father,  are  living  in  harmony  therewith.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
most  contentious,  distressed,  and  miserable  people  on  the  earth  are 
those  who  know  his  will  and  who  do  not  live  in  harmony  with  it. 

We  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  are  in  a  unique  position  with  reference  to  this  matter  because 
we  know  that  the  Lord  has  revealed,  and  is  continuing  to  reveal,  to 
our  generation  his  will  concerning  us,  and  we  profess  to  accept  it. 
This  leaves  us  no  excuse  and  no  escape.  Each  of  us  is  destined  to 
be  happy  and  at  peace,  or  miserable  and  contentious.  Many  have 
already  chosen  their  places;  others  are  moving  into  position.  Our 
status  will  depend  upon  how  nearly  we  do  the  Father's  will  now,  and 
how  faithful  we  are  in  continuing  to  do  it  to  the  end  of  our  mortal 
lives. 

As  we  seek  to  understand  the  Father's  will,  it  may  be  well  for 
us  to  keep  in  mind  some  well-known  fundamentals.  The  first  to 
which  I  invite  your  attention  is  that  the  rules  of  conduct  prescribed 
for  us  in  the  revelations  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
are  statements  of  the  Father's  will  as  to  how  we  should  live  our 
mortal  lives,  and  that  these  standards  were  not  formulated  by  men, 
and  therefore  men  cannot  change  them.  Their  observance  is  a  puri- 
fying and  sanctifying  process,  by  which  we  come  into  union  with 
God  and  thereby  enjoy  peace  and  happiness.  To  know  them  and 
fail  to  strive  to  live  them  is  to  invite  certain  distress  and  unhappiness. 

To  illustrate:  Recently  a  friend  of  mine  came  to  me  with  this 
problem.  "The  Church,"  he  said,  "is  suffering  the  loss  of  the  loyalty 
and  services  of  many  able  members  who  feel  that  they  are  being 
driven  away  from  the  Church  and  are  thus  deprived  of  the  commun- 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


89 


ion  to  which  they  are  entitled,  because  our  leaders  put  so  much  stress 
upon  what,  to  them,  are  unimportant  rules  of  conduct,  such  as  the 
nonuse  of  tea,  coffee,  tobacco,  and  intoxicating  beverages."  He 
wondered  if  the  rules  as  to  these  things  and  such  other,  to  them, 
minor  things  as  the  payment  of  tithing  and  the  keeping  of  the  Sab- 
bath day  holy,  could  not  be  relaxed  so  that  such  persons  would  not 
feel  out  of  harmony  or  be  embarrased  in  the  Church. 

The  Yoke  of  Christ 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  not  the  desire  of.  the  Church 
nor  of  any  man  or  woman  in  the  Church  who  has  the  spirit  of  the 
gospel,  to  discomfort  or  embarrass  or  drive  away  from  the  purifying 
and  sanctifying  influences  of  the  gospel,  any  person,  be  he  in  or  out 
of  the  Church.  Rather,  it  is  their  desire  to  take  every  person  where 
he  now  is  and  build  him  up,  lead  him  step  by  step  along  the  straight 
and  narrow  path  of  conforming  with  gospel  standards,  until  he  finds 
peace  and  happiness  in  doing  the  will  of  the  Father. 

This,  however,  cannot  be  done  by  condoning  noncompliance 
with  the  rules  of.  conduct  which  the  Lord  has  prescribed,  nor  by  pre- 
suming to  change  them.  The  words  of  Jesus  were,  "Take  my  yoke 
upon  you."    He  did  not  say  come  on  your  own  terms,  but — 

Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me;  .  .  .  and  ye  shall  find  rest 
unto  your  souls.  (Matt.  11:29.) 

The  Lord  has  never  revealed  a  way  whereby  we  can  enjoy  that 
rest  unto  our  souls  without  taking  his  yoke  upon  us.  The  accept- 
ance of  the  commandments  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  as  an  ex- 
pression to  us  individually  of  the  will  of  our  Father  in  heaven  as  to 
how  we  should  live,  and  an  earnest  effort  to  abide  thereby,  will  do 
much  to  bring  us  peace  and  happiness  while  we  live  in  the  earth,  and 
to  .assure  us  of  great  joy  in  the  world  to  come. 

Living  Prophets  As  Guides 

Another  fundamental  to  bear  in  mind  in  our  search  is  that  the 
manifestations  of  the  Father's  will  to'  this  generation  did  not  cease 
with  what  is  written  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  He  has  not 
left  us  unguided  to  jangle  over  the  interpretations  of  those  revela- 
tions, nor  does  he  leave  us  ignorant  of  his  will  on  current  issues.  He 
has  given  us  living  prophets  to  interpret  those  revelations  and  to  de- 
clare to  us  his  will  on  present  problems. 

When  the  Lord  opened  up  this  dispensation,  he  chose  and  ap- 
pointed the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  through  whom  to  reveal  his  will. 
And  the  peoples  of  the  earth  were  put  under  obligation  to  hear  him. 
More  than  a  year  before  the  Church  was  organized,  the  Lord  said 
to  the  Prophet: 

.  .  .  this  generation  shall  have  my  word  through  you.  (Doc.  and  Cov. 
5:10.) 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  7  Second  Dag 

And  he  further  declared  that  woe  should  come  upon  the  inhab- 
itants of  the  earth  if  they  did  not  hearken  unto  his  words. 

As  long  as  the  Prophet  lived,  the  Lord  revealed  his  will  to  that 
generation  through  him.  And  it  is  significant  how  much  of  what  he 
revealed  dealt  with  the  issues  of  that  day.  Since  the  Prophet's  mar- 
tyrdom, the  will  of  the  Lord  has  been  given  through  succeeding 
prophets,  Presidents  Brigham  Young,  John  Taylor,  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, Lorenzo  Snow,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  each 
in  his  turn  has  presided  over  the  Church,  and,  like  unto  Moses,  has 
guided  the  people  of  his  generation  on  the  issues  of  their  day  by  the 
spirit  of  revelation.  (See  Doc.  and  Cov.  107:91;  8:2-3.) 

During  the  administrations  of  all  these  leaders,  those  who  have 
accepted  them  as  prophets,  who  have  truly  believed  that  by  the  spir- 
it of  revelation  they  spoke  the  Father's  will  on  the  issues  of  the  day, 
who  have  adjusted  their  thinking,  their  living,  and  their  feelings  to 
harmonize  with  the  spirit  and  the  letter  of  the  words  of  these  living 
prophets — they  are  the  ones  who  have  been  comforted  and  who  have 
had  peace  in  their  souls. 

Today  the  Lord  is  revealing  his  will  to  all  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth,  and  to  members  of  the  Church  in  particular,  on  the  issues 
of  this  our  day  through  the  living  prophets,  with  the  First  Presi- 
dency at  the  head.  What  they  say  as  a  presidency  is  what  the  Lord 
would  say  if  he  were  here  in  person.  This  is  the  rock  foundation  of 
Mormonism.  If  it  ever  ceases  to  be  the  fact,  this  will  be  an  apostate 
Church.  But  it  will  ntver  cease  to  be  the  fact.  When  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  was  asked  what  the  difference  was  between  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  Church  and  the  sectarian  churches  of  the  world,  he 
said,  "We  have  the  Holy  Ghost,"  by  which  he  meant  that  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  the  will  of  our  Father  is  revealed  to  the 
minds  of  the  leaders  of  this  Church.  So  I  repeat  again,  what  the 
presidency  say  as  a  presidency  is  what  the  Lord  would  say  if  he  were 
here,  and  it  is  scripture.  It  should  be  studied,  understood,  and  fol- 
lowed, even  as  the  revelations  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and 
other  scriptures.  Those  who  follow  this  course  will  not  interpret 
what  they  say  as  being  inspired  by  political  bias  or  selfishness;  neith- 
er will  they  say  that  the  brethren  are  uninformed  as  to  the  circum- 
stances of  those  affected  by  their  counsel;  or  that  their  counsels  can- 
not be  accepted  because  they  are  not  prefaced  by  the  quotation, 
"Thus  saith  the  Lord." 

Those,  and  I  testify  to  this  out  of  my  own  experience,  who  will 
through  mighty  prayer  and  earnest  study  inform  themselves  as  to 
what  these  living  prophets  say,  and  act  upon  it,  will  be  visited  by 
the  spirit  of  the  Lord  and  know  by  the  spirit  of  revelation  that  they 
speak  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Father. 

This  is  a  day  of  great  conflict  between  truth  and  error.  Satan 
is  having  a  field  day  with  the  souls  of  men.  Anti-christs  stalk  the 
earth  in  all  lands,  including  our  own.  False  philosophies  and  doc- 
trines emanating  from  the  prince  of  darkness  are  being  presented 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  91 


in  such  appealing  manner  as  almost  to  deceive  the  very  elect.  There 
is  only  one  sure  way  to  divine  the  truth  from  the  error.  That  is  to 
learn  what  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Father  is  on  these  matters,  and 
then  do  it.  You  will  find  it  declared  on  many  issues  in  the  mes- 
sages of  the  First  Presidency  given  in  the  general  conferences  in 
1942.  I  take  the  liberty  of  reading  from  the  one  given  in  April  the 
following : 

We  again  warn  our  people  in  America  of  the  constantly  increasing 
threat  against  our  inspired  Constitution  and  our  free  institutions  set  up 
under  it.  The  same  political  tenets  and  philosophies  that  have  brought  war 
and  terror  in  other  parts  of  the  world  are  at  work  amongst  us  in  America. 
The  proponents  thereof  are  seeking  to  undermine  our  own  form  of  govern- 
ment and  to  set  up  instead  one  of  the  forms  of  dictatorships  now  flourishing 
in  other  lands.  These  revolutionists  are  using  a  technique  that  is  as  old  as 
the  human  race — a  fervid  but  false  solicitude  for  the  unfortunate  over 
whom  they  thus  gain  mastery,  and  then  enslave  them. 

They  suit  their  approaches  to  the  particular  group  they  seek  to  de- 
ceive. Among  the  Latter-day  Saints  they  speak  of  their  philosophy  and 
their  plans  under  it,  as  an  ushering  in  of  the  United  Order.  Communism 
and  all  other  similar  isms  bear  no  relationship  whatever  to  the  United  Or- 
der. They  are  merely  the  clumsy  counterfeits  which  Satan  always  devises 
of  the  gospel  plan.  Communism  debases  the  individual  and  makes  him 
the  enslaved  tool  of  the  state  to  whom  he  must  look  for  sustenance  and 
'  religion;  -the  United  Order  exalts  the  individual,  leaves  him  his  property, 
"according  to  his  family,  according  to  his  circumstances  and  his  wants  and 
needs"  (Doc.  and  Cov.  51:3),  and  provides  a  system  by  which  he  helps 
care  for  his  less  fortunate  brethren;  the  United  Order  leaves  every  man  free 
to  choose  his  own  religion  as  his  conscience  directs.  Communism  destroys 
man's  God-given  free  agency;  the  United  Order  glorifies  it.  Latter-day 
Saints  cannot  be  true  to  their  faith  and  lend  aid,  encouragement,  or  symp- 
athy to  any  of  these  false  philosophies.  They  will  prove  snares  to  their 
feet. 

If  there  be  those  among  us  who  feel  aggrieved,  out  of  harmony, 
or  to  criticize  what  the  Presidency  say  on  these  burning  issues  of  our 
times,  it  would  be  well  to  remember  that  these  prophets  are  but  de- 
claring to  us  the  will  of  the  Father,  and  that  the  only  open  road  to 
peace  and  happiness  is  to  bring  ourselves  into  harmony  therewith. 

May  the  Lord  help  each  of  us  to  have  a  consuming  desire  to 
know  and  do  his  will,  and  to  recognize  that  his  will  is  made  known 
to  us  and  all  peoples  of  this  generation  through  the  revelations  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  interpretations  and  counsels  of  the 
livina  prophets,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  you  also  who  may  be  listening  in:  I  am 
very  glad  today  that  I  am  a  member  of  the  restored  Church  of  Christ. 
I  have  had  this  gladness  in,  my  heart  all  the  days  of  my  life,  since  my 
early  boyhood,  and  I  bear  testimony  to  you  this  afternoon  and  witness 
also,  that  this  Church  is  of  God,  established  by  him,  which,  as  has 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Day 

already  been  quoted  here,  will  never  be  cast  down  or  given  to  another 
people.  We  are  dealing  with  eternal  realities,  everlasting,  from  the 
heavens  above. 

The  excellent  messages  given  us  by  our  brethren  during  this  con- 
ference have  started  in  our  minds,  I  know,  many  trains  of  thought. 
One  particularly  has  been  with  me  ever  since  one  of  the  brethren  spoke 
yesterday  forenoon.   I  would  like  to  discuss  it  with  you  briefly. 

An  Echo  From  World  War  I 

Some  years  ago  I  had  the  opportunity  to  spend  the  night  in  a 
little  tavern  or  hotel  at  the  famous  little  town  of  Chateau  Thierry,  in 
France.  That  little  town  was  a  storm  center  of  the  great  war  of  a 
quarter  of  a  century  ago.  When  we  left,  the  next  morning,  the  pro- 
prietor or  hotel  manager,  a  veteran  of  the  last  war,  came  out  to  say 
goodbye  to  us.  Someone  said  something  about  the  war  in  which  he 
had  served.  He  promptly  pulled  down  the  eyelid  of  one  of  his  eyes 
and  put  his  finger  on  the  eyeball.  It  was  an  artificial  eye,  to  replace 
one  he  lost  in  the  war.  Not  satisfied  with  that,  he  pulled  back  his 
cheek  and  showed  us  a  silver  jaw  that  had  been  inserted  by  the  sur- 
geons to  replace  the  one  he  lost  in  the  war.  He  looked  at  us  and  said, 
"This  is  all  I  got  out  of  the  war.  What  good  is  war?"  I  believe  that 
man  spoke  the  feeling  of  the  great  majority  of  mankind,  of  us  com- 
mon men. 

Solution  for  the  Problems  of  the  World 

Yet  we  stand  now  bewildered  before  another  great  war.  I  believe 
the  world  has  never  been  so  bewildered  as  at  the  present  time.  We 
cannot  understand  how  this  war  has  come  about.  We  don't  know 
how  to  solve  the  problems  that  will  follow.  We  look  into  the  future 
with  a  certain  amount  of  dread.  If  I  read  the  magazines  and  reports 
correctly,  many  are  ready  to  surrender  even  their  free  agencies  to  try 
out  something  new  in  the  hope  that  it  may  lead  to  something  better. 
The  answer  to  all  this,  by  the  Church  of  Christ,  is  simple.  It  is  the 
answer  that  has  been  given  since  the  beginning  of  time.  If  mankind 
had  accepted  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  there  would  have 
been  no  bloody  wars;  and  if  the  world  today  would  accept  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  all  problems  that  lie  before  us  would  be 
solved  easily  and  well.  We  believe,  and  we  have  so  taught,  that  every 
question  confronting  humanity  may  be  answered  by  the  gospel  if  we 
understand  the  gospel  and  accept  it  and  use  it  properly;  and  every 
problem  before  us  may  be  solved  in  the  same  manner. 

To  this  reply  the  leaders  of  nations  say  no,  or  a  very  doubtful  yes. 
They  are  willing  to  concede  that  religion  and  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  may  be  very  effective  in  the  spiritual  field,  but  not  very 
efficacious  in  the  temporal  world  of  men  and  women  dealing  with  liv- 
ing problems  here  upon  this  earth. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


93 


If  gospel  light  is  thrown  upon  Dumbarton  Oaks  and  upon  Yalta, 
the  agreements  made  there,  and  upon  the  coming  San  Francisco  con- 
ference, it  will  not  be  so  difficult  to  write  safe  treaties  or  to  discover 
the  weaknesses  inherent  in  agreements  already  made.  Men  are  so  will- 
ing in  working  out  the  problems  of  the  day,  to  cover  with  smiling  di- 
plomacy, riotous  selfishness. 

Responsibility  of  Church  Members 

Now  then,  having  said  this,  let  me  ask,  what  is  our  obligation  as 
a  Church  and  Church  members,  in  this  day  of  confusion.  Do  we  have 
an  obligation?  Are  we  willing  to  continue  as  other  people,  to'  use  our 
best  judgment  as  men,  try  to  vote  this  way  or  that  when  an  election 
comes  up,  depending  on  our  human  powers?  Are  we  like  all'  the  other 
people  on  the  face  of  the  earth,  or  has  the  Lord  placed  upon  us  obliga- 
tions and  conditions  which  make  us  different  from  all  the  world? 

We  say  that  the  Lord  spoke  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
through  him  restored  the  eternal  gospel,  formulated  in  the  heavens  be- 
fore the  foundations  of  the  earth  were  laid.  The  Lord  has  told  us 
that  the  gospel  is  for  all  men.  He  has  charged  us,  members  of  this 
Church,  to  carry  the  gospel  message  to  all  the  world. 

If  it  is  true  that  peace  can  be  won  only  through  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ;  and  if  our  claim  is  true,  as  I  verily  believe  it  is,  that  we 
alone  have  the  true  and  full  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  we  carry 
a  tremendous  responsibility  upon  our  shoulders.  There  will  then  be 
no  world  peace  until  we  do  our  part,  accept  our  high  commsision  and 
teach  the  truth  to  all  the  world.  In  that  sense  we  become  the  custodi- 
ans, so  to  speak,  of  the  world's  peace,  of  the  world's  future,  we  humble 
men  assembled  here,  with  those  who  labor  in  the  wards  and  stakes  of 
Zion.  I  believe  that  it  is  our  duty  to  accept  this  challenge.  We  can- 
not sit  in  some  cozy,  warm,  spiritual  chimney  corner,  thanking  God 
for  the  blessings  of  the  gospel,  for  our  membership  in  the  Church,  sel- 
fishly forgetting  all  else  and  everybody  else.  That  is  not  our  work, 
nor  our  destiny,  nor  our  business  in  life,  under  God's  command. 

The  possession  of  the  gospel,  the  knowledge  of  it,  does  change 
a  man  -tremendously,  but  the  full  joy  of  the  gospel,  that  joy  which 
we  have  all  seen  in  many  a  humble  person  who  has  received  the  gos- 
pel, comes  only  when  we  use  the  gospel  for  others.  He  who  receives 
must  give,  that  is  one  of  the  first  and  most  fundamental  of  all  gospel 
laws. 

Well,  you  say,  we  are  only  a  small  people,  not  quite  a  million 
people  as  reported  here  yesterday.  There  are  about  two  thousand 
millions  in  the  world  today.  Can  we  do  it?  Can  we  teach  all  the 
world?  We  are  too  few,  are  we  not?  Obviously,  the  first  answer 
that  comes  when  we  speak  of  this  high  obligation  that  rests  upon  us 
is:  We  are  few,  yes.  We  claim  no  preeminence  in  physical  or  in- 
tellectual matters,  nor  in  the  affairs  of  men.  But,  we  have  the  truth 
of  eternity,  and  we  have  faith.  Faith  and  truth  are  invincible.  With 
the  sling  of  faith  and  the  pebble  of  truth,  like  David  of  old,  we  may 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7 


Second  Dag 


lay  low  every  giant  of  unbelief  and  error  and  opposition  to  truth  in 
all  the  world.  To  go  forth  in  this  spirit  is  the  call  of  the  day  of  Latter- 
day  Israel. 

Whole-hearted  Service  Required 

You  remember  that  in  days  gone  by,  a  great  cry  went  forth,  "Is 
there  faith  in  Israel?"  That  is  the  cry  today,  faith  not  only  to  bless 
ourselves  in  our  own  mountain  valleys,  or  those  of  our  people  in  the 
coast  country;  but  faith  that  this  work  will  bless  all  humanity.  We 
belong  to  a  world  organization;  we  have  a  world  message;  we  are 
under  a  world  obligation.  We  must  lift  our  eyes  and  see  this  work 
in  its  wholeness  as  the  Lord  has  revealed  it  to  us,  and  as  we  have  been 
taught  since  the  days  long  gone  by. 

I  have  the  feeling,  brethren,  that  we  can't  accomplish  this  work 
unless  we  give  our  whole  selves  to  it.  Half-hearted  service  will  not 
suffice.  There  must  be  complete  surrender  to  this  work  if  it  shall 
accomplish  the  purposes  of  the  Almighty.  The  old  proverb  maker 
said:  "Son,  son,  give  me  thine  heart."  Are  we  giving  our  hearts  to 
this  work  that  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  may  be  accomplished?  That 
is  the  question  for  us  in  this  day.  That  surrender,  that  giving  of  one's 
self,  must  be  full  of  eagerness.  We  must  not  wait  to  be  called  to 
serve.  You  know  what  the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
a  long  time  ago  about  men  who  wait  to  be  called.  We  must  be  eager 
in  service.   You  remember  the  story  from  the  days  of  Christ: 

And  when  he  [Jesus]  was  gone  forth  into  the  way,  there  came  one 
running,  and  kneeled  to  him,  and  asked  him,  Good  Master,  what  shall  I  do 
that  I  may  inherit  eternal  life?  (Mark  10:17.) 

That  story  is  for  us  today,  leaders  in  Israel.  Are  we  so  eager 
that  we  run  to  do  the  will  of  God,  to  help  work  out  his  purposes? 

A  Lesson  From  the  Story  of  Gideon 

There  is  yet  another  story  from  the  Old  Testament,  the  book  on 
which  I  grew  up  and  therefore  always  dear  to  me.  ( I  speak  of  grow- 
ing up  on  that  book  before  my  family  joined  the  Church,  in  the  coun- 
try of  my  birth.  I  was  taught  the  Old  Testament  every  school  day. ) 
Do  you  remember  the  story  of  Gideon,  Judge  of  Israel?  Midian  had 
set  about  to  destroy  Israel.  Gideon  secured  an  army  of  over  thirty 
thousand  men  to  fight  the  battles  of  his  people.  Before  he  undertook 
to  meet  Midian  he  sent  back  to  their  homes  all  who  had  fearful  hearts, 
also  all  who  were  loiterers,  men  who,  when  they  came  to  a  water 
course,  would  lie  down  on  their  stomachs,  drink  at  their  leisure,  and 
take  it  easy.  He  sent  such  men  back.  When  he  had  done  this,  only 
three  hundred  men  were  left.  But  they  were  eager  men  who  wanted 
to  fight  the  battles  of  Israel,  and  who  when  they  came  to  a  water 
course,  had  no  time  to  lie  down  to  drink,  but  cupped  their  hands  and 
took  a  swallow  of  water.  With  these  three  hundred  men,  as  you  re- 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS  95 


member,  Gideon  won  the  battle  for  Israel.  Numbers  do  not  count  in 
the  end.  It  is  even  so  with  modern  Israel.  That  is  the  thought  that 
has  gone  through  my  mind  during  this  conference.  It  is  the  message 
I  would  leave  with  you. 

Sacrifice  Necessary 

Of  course,  such  service  means  sacrifice.  Certainly  it  means  sac- 
rifice, but  the  Lord  said  to  us  at  the  beginning  of  this  great  latter-day 
work,  "This  is  a  day  of  sacrifice."  Later  on,  you  recall  that  he  said 
on  one  occasion  we  cannot  really  live  up  to  our  covenants  as  we  should 
unless  we  sacrifice.  But  what  does  sacrifice  matter  when  we  are  in 
the  cause  of  the  Lord  and  feel  the  power  of  the  spirit  of  God?  Many 
years  ago  the  message  came,  "Be  still  and  know  that  I  am  God." 
(Psalm  46:10. )  We  can  trust  him.  We  give  a  little,  and  the  Lord 
returns  ten-fold,  often  a  hundred-fold.  Look  at  the  men  of  our  own 
Church,  who  have  spent  years  and  years  in  service  to  the  great  cause. 
They  have  prospered,  not  only  temporally  but  spiritually.  To  them 
we  go  for  help  and  counsel.  From  them  We  receive  support,  to  make 
our  own  lives  more  beautiful.  Of  course,  sacrifice  is  required  of  us; 
but  we,  with  a  great  world  commission,  must  lift  our  eyes  to  it,  prepare 
for  it,  have  faith  for  it,  and  try  to  do  what  the  Lord  requires  of  us. 
If  we  stand  ready  to  give  full  service,  not  half  service,  not  half  sur- 
render but  complete  surrender,  we  shall  become  mighty  men.  May 
that  spirit  grow  strong  among  us  I  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Glory  to  God  on  High," 
L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  113,  Hymn  Book  No.  137. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  stand  before  you  this  afternoon,  my  brethren,  with  mingled 
feelings  of  joy  and  sadness.  I  am  glad  that  the  absence  of  President 
Hardy  and  President  Bennion  has  been  mentioned  here  this  after- 
noon. They  were  both  men  who  were  very,  very  dear  to  me,  and  I 
want  you  all  to  know  that  I  miss  them  very  keenly.  As  I  sit  here  on 
the  stand  today,  I  feel  their  absence  because  I  used  to  go  to  both  of 
them  for  support  in  the  questions  that  so  frequently  arose,  and  I 
used  to  sit  next  to  Brother  Bennion  in  all  of  our  conference  gatherings. 
I  hope  that  God  will  comfort  Sister  Hardy  and  Sister  Bennion,  and 
that  he  will  give  us  the  power  to 'give  them  some  aid  in  their  trials 
and  make  it  easier  for  them.  On  the  other  hand,  I  rejoice  in  the  fine 
quality  of  the  men  who  have  been  selected  to  take  their  places.  I 
want  to  make  public  acknowledgement  of  my  esteem  for  them  and 
tell  them  that  they  have  my  support  in  the  work  that  they  shall  have 
to  do. 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday.  April  7 


Second  Day 


The  Comfort  A  Testimony  Gives 


I  am  glad  for  the  testimony  I  have  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  for  the  faith  that  it  gives  me,  faith  that  the  work  which  God  in- 
itiated in  this  dispensation,  through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  shall  go  on  and  on  and  on.  I  feel  very  in- 
significant as  one  of  the  cogs  in  the  great  machine  which  is  to  carry 
it  forward,  but  I  have  gained  through  my  observation  and  experience 
the  faith  that  God  will  see  it  go  forward,  regardless  of  the  fact  that 
those  of  us  who  are  here  now  will  eventually  lay  down  the  burdens 
of  life.  I  like  to  think  of  life  as  something  that  began  before  mor- 
tality and  something  that  will  go  on  after  it;  that  death  is  but  an  in- 
cident in  life,  just  as  is  birth,  and  I  like  to  think  that  these  compan- 
ions of  mine  now  are  exercising  an  influence  just  as  they  did  here. 
The  sun  rises  in  the  morning,  and  we  feel  its  warmth  during  the  day. 
For  us  it  sets  in  the  evening,  but  when  it  sets  for  us,  it  warms  another 
land.  I  feel  that  those  fine  men  are  doing  that  very  thing,  that 
through  their  personalities  and  the  power  that  they  gained  through 
their  experiences  here,  they  are  warming  another  land  and  helping  an- 
other group  of  men  and  women.  I  am  thankful  for  that  faith,  for  it 
helps  me  over  many  difficult  problems  in  life. 


We  who  are  here,  this  afternoon,  represent  the  leadership  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  come  together 
for  inspiration  and  to  learn  better  how  to  do  the  various  things  that 
we  have  to  do  in  administering  the  work  of  the  Church.  We  have  a 
great  and  grave  responsibility  because  we  stand  at  the  head  of  this 
large  group  of  people,  and  it  is  expected  of  us  that  we  will  show 
them  the  way  to  go.  It  is  true,  as  has  been  said,  that  he  who  holds  a 
lantern  to  light  the  footsteps  of  his  friends,  lights  his  own.  In  lead- 
ing the  people  we  see  more  clearly  our  own  duties,  our  own  responsi- 
bilities, and  the  pathway  that  we  should  follow.  It  is  a  great  obliga- 
tion, and  I  stand  in  fear  and  trembling  before  you  and  before  God 
when  I  think  of  my  responsibility  in  the  position  I  occupy.  I  hope 
that  I  may  have  your  faith  and  prayers  as  my  life  carries  on,  to  do 
it  properly. 

Man  is  the  crowning  creation  of  God,  who  spent  a  long  time 
fashioning  the  world  and  the  plants  and  the  animals  that  grow  upon 
it.  As  his  crowning  effort  he  placed  man  to  rule  and  reign  over  them. 
Man  is  the  great  workmanship  of  God.  To  bring  about  the  eternal 
life  of  man  is  his  great  objective..  He  starts  us  out  as  almost  the 
weakest  of  all  of  the  animal  creations  which  he  has  placed  upon  the 
world.  There  are  few  of  the  animals  that  are  born  as  weak  and  puny 
as  we,  and  all  of  them  grow  more  quickly  to  maturity  and  to  inde- 
pendence than  we.  We  are  the  most  dependent  of  all  the  creations, 
I  believe,  but  we  grow,  if  we  are  properly  nurtured  and  cared  for, 
into  the  crowning  glory  of  the  work  of  God.   To  take  that  new  soul 


The  Responsibility  of  Leadership 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


97 


and  tiny  body  as  it  comes  into  the  world  and  develop  it  into  a  perr 
sonage  who  will  eventually  attain  to  the  qualities  of  godhood  is  a 
responsibility  that  few  of  us  appreciate  in  its  enormity.  We  talk 
a  great  deal  about  the  delinquency  of  this  present  day,  juvenile  de- 
linquency and  the  delinquency  of  others,  but  we  seem  to  be  startled 
mainly  with  what  we  term  juvenile  delinquency.  The  other  night  I 
sat  and  listened  to  a  discussion  by  one  of  our  prominent  educators 
on  that  question  and  one  of  the  things  that  I  gained  from  his  discus- 
sion was  this  statement,  "Back  of  every  delinquent  child,  there  is  a 
responsible  and  frequently  a  delinquent  adult."  Now  if  we  will  think 
of  it  that  way,  think  what  a  responsibility  we  have.  It  isn't  their 
fault,  if  that  is  true,  there  is  delinquency  in  the  world,  but  it  is  our 
fault  and  the  fault  of  our  grandfathers,  because  we  respond  to  influ- 
ences down  through  all  these  generations,  the  present  generation  be- 
ing the  product  of  the  past.  When  we  think,  too,  of  a  child  whose 
career  is  changed  by  some  careless  act  or  teaching  of  ours  and  that 
he  becomes  an  undesirable  member  of  society  passing  his  undesir- 
able qualities  down  to  future  generations,  which  pyramid  as  a  great 
fan  beyond  him,  how  can  we  think  of  the  end  of  that  evil  influence 
and  how  can  we  determine  the  enormity  of  the  offense;  thus  it  is  not 
surprising  that  we  read  in  Matthew  and  in  Mark  and  in  Luke  the 
statement  of  the  Savior  that  "he  who  shall  offend  the  least  of  these 
little  ones  who'  believe  in  me,  it  were  better  for  him  that  a  millstone 
had  been  tied  about  his  neck  and  he  had  been  drowned  in  the  sea." 
(See  Matt.  18:6;  Mark  9:42;  Luke  17:2.)  Verily,  that  is  true,  for 
had  that  been  done  before  his  evil  influence  was  felt,  it  had  been 
better  for  the  world. 

-  The  Proper  Watchcare  of  Children  Enjoined 

Now,  brethren,  the  children  of  this  Church  are  our  children. 
God  has  entrusted  us  with  their  care,  and  burs  is  the  problem  to  see 
that  they  are  properly  taught  and  led.  I  am  very,  very  sure  that 
there  are  many  homes,  and  perhaps  most  of  the  homes  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  where  this  obligation  is  properly  appreciated  and  where 
the  parents  do  what  is  within  their  power  properly  to  lead  as  well  as 
direct  their  children,  and  I  give  you  in  testimony  of  it  the  fact  that 
I  have  seen  many  young  men  and  women  come  out  of.  these  homes 
with  a  faith  that  is  fine  and  holy.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  quite  pos- 
sible that  some  of  us  do  not  attend  to  these  responsibilities  as  we 
should.  We  have  frequent  cases  reported  to  us  where  children  are 
on  the  streets  at  all  hours  of  the  day  and  night,  while  their  parents 
are  off  on  some  errand,  perhaps  for  pleasure,  perhaps  for  gain,  a 
questionable  gain  when  you  consider  the  sacrifice  they  make  for  it. 
So  there  may  be  among  us  some  cases  which  should  have  attention, 
and  we  who  are  here  are  the  ones  who  are  charged  with  that  part  of 
it,  to  see  that  our  people  are  properly  taught  and  properly  led. 

It  isn't  every  parent  that  has  the  tact  to  do  those  things  as  he 
should,  and  it  isn't  every  parent  whose  children  go  astray  who  is  re- 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  7  Second  Day 

sponsible  for  that,  because  they  come  under  the  influence  of  people 
outside  the  family  as  well  as  within  it,  but  when  we  expose  them  to 
those  external  influences  we  should  do  everything  within  our  power 
to  protect  them  from  within.  Perhaps  we  who  are  here  in  this  sec- 
tion of  the  country  have  felt  so  secure  in  the  past  that  we  haven't 
done  as  much  as  we  should  in  preparation  and  in  protection. 

I  remember "  visiting  an  outlying  stake  established  in  a  large 
community.  When  I  suggested  to  the  president  of  the  stake  that 
we  at  home  were  worried  over  the  temptations  that  are  now  being 
presented  to  our  young  people,  he  said,  "President  Ivins,  we  have 
had  to  contend  with  temptation  since  we  came  into  this  section.  Our 
children  have  developed  a  method  of  withstanding  it,  and  we  can 
trust  them."  So  it  seems  possible  to  build  up  a  resistance  to  those 
things.  That  is  our  charge  and  that  is  our  task.  I  wonder  how  many 
of  us  get  close  enough  to  our  children,  so  that  when  they  come  in  in 
the  evening,  they  come  to  our  bedside  and  tell  us  where  they  have 
been,  and  how  many  of  us  get  close  enough  to  them  that  they  will 
come  and  confide  in  us  their  problems  as  their  advancing  years  come 
upon  them?  Too  many  of  us,  I  am  sure,  as  parents,  are  backward  in- 
teaching  them  some  of,  the  principles  of  life  which  they  should  learn, 
and  there  develops  between  father  and  son,  between  mother  and 
daughter,  a  barrier  that  seems  hard  to  surmount;  but  when  we  recog- 
nize that,  at  its  very  first  appearance,  we  should  consciously  attempt 
to  break  it  down,  tactfully,  nicely.  Let  us  see  if  we  can't  gain  the 
confidence  of  these  children  that  we  are  producing,  and  let  us  who 
are  the  fathers  in  the  wards  and  the  stakes  of  the  Church  see  if  we 
can't  so  gain  the  confidence  of  the  fathers  and  mothers  that  we  can 
talk  to  them  in  the  same  spirit,  that  we  can  teach  them  the  value  of 
family  prayer.  It  is  astonishing  how  many  people  in  this  last  report 
that  we  received  have  admitted  that  they  don't  practice  regularly  fam- 
ily prayer.  Now  there  is  no  greater  safeguard  in  the  family,  and 
there  is  no  greater  protection  to  a  child  than  that  habit  which  he 
should  develop.  The  principles  of  integrity,  righteousness,  and  up- 
right living  should  also  be  taught  them.  If  it  is  true  that  back  of 
every  erring  child  there  is  an  erring  parent  or  other  adult,  there  is 
a  grave  responsibility  resting  upon  us,  and  we  shouldn't  shirk  it;  we 
shouldn't  evade  it  because  we  are  backward  or  bashful  with  our  chil- 
dren. We  should  face  it  fairly  and  squarely  with  our  arms  around 
them,  bringing  them  close  to  our  hearts  and  talking  confidentially 
with  them.  Some  of  the  greatest  pleasures  of  my  life  have  been  the 
sessions  that  I  had  with  my  father,  under  the  stars  of  heaven,  sleep- 
ing side  by  side  with  him.  We  should  get  close  to  those  children; 
we  should  love  them.  We  would  give  our  lives  for  them,  but  fre- 
quently we  are  so  embarrassed  and  bashful  that  we  won't  even  talk 
plainly  to  them  in  love  and  good  will.  I  don't  mean  a  dominating 
spirit  or  anything  of  that  kind.  I  remember  one  time  in  going  through 
a  mission  we  attempted  to  teach  a  father  that  he  should  put  his  arms 
around  his  child,  his  boy,  and  bring  him  close  to  him.    The  man  who 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  DILWORTH  YOUNG  99 


made  the  appeal  in  the  public  address  said,  "You  must  hang  on  to 
your  children,"  and  the  man  who  translated  into  Spanish,  said,  "You 
must  govern  them  with  a  hand  of  mail."  You  can  imagine  how  far 
we  got.  That  isn't  what  I  mean,  brethren.  "We  must  put  our  arms 
around  them;  we  must  love  them;  we  must  teach  them;  we  are  the 
leaders  of.  the  people,  the  heads  of  the  wards  and  stakes;  and  what 
are  we  doing  for  them?  Let  every  man  of  us  look  himself  in  the  eye, 
and  see  if  he  can  say,  "I  have  done  my  full  duty,  I  am  satisfied  and 
happy."   If  he  can't,  I  call  him  to  repentance. 

May  God  give  us  the  strength  to  do  it,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

O/  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

A  good  portion  of  my  life  I  have  thought  that  the  calls  which 
.  came  to  those  who  are  to  do  things  for  the  Church,  while  officially 
coming  from  the  prophets,  perhaps  might  come  as  a  still,  small  voice 
speaking  to  the  person  in  the  manner  of  the  words  of  the  Lord  when 
he  spoke  to  Samuel.  He  called,  "Samuel."  Samuel  had  to  answer 
two  or  three  times.  The  words  which  came  to  me  sounded  distinctly 
like  those  of  President  David  O.  McKay. 

The  Way  the  Call  Came 

I  submit  to  you  the  questions  he  asked  of  me  because  I  believe 
there  have  never  been  propounded,  to  me  at  least,  three  more  inno- 
cent questions.  He  said,  "Where  are  you?"  Of  course,  I  was  in 
my  office.  He  said,  "What  are  you  doing?"  I  said,  "I  am  working." 
He  said,  "Would  you  like  to  attend  conference?"  Well,  the  only 
reason  I  wasn't  attending  conference  was  because  I  had  no  ticket. 
So  I  assured  him  that  I  would  be  very  happy  to  attend  conference. 

He  told  me  he  wanted  me  to  attend  conference,  would  I  please 
come  down  as  quickly  as  I  could  and  sit  in  the  audience  and  see  him 
at  noon.  That  was  as  much  as  I  knew  until  I  got  to  the  temple  gate, 
when  a  very  polite  and  delightful  officer  of  the  Salt  Lake  City  police 
force  informed  me  that  I  was  a  member  of  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy,  and  for  the  first  time  in  my  life  I  was  escorted  by  a  police- 
man across  the  temple  grounds. 

Personal  Experiences 

Now  I  know,  and  many  of  you  know,  that,  whatever  the  reason 
why  I  am  called  ( and  I  do  not  know  what  it  is )  I  should  not  be  here 
in  any  event  without  the  love  and  the  backing  and  the  work  of  the 
men  with  whom  I  have  labored  in  the  past  twenty-two  years.  A 
sprinkling  of  those  men  sit  in  this  audience  today.  All  I  can  see  be- 
fore me  is  a  sea  of  faces,  as  one  man  put  it  this  morning,  but  there  are 
islands  in  that  sea,  and  those  islands  are  the  faces  of  my  friends  from 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Day 

all  parts  of  the  four  counties  which  I  have  served  so  long.  They 
took  me  to  their  hearts  twenty-two  years  ago  after  President  Samuel 
G.  Dye  and  President  C.  E.  Smith,  who  were  then  members  of  our 
executive  board  of  the  Ogden  council,  with  other  men,  thought  I 
was  honest  looking  enough  to  try  to  be  their  Scout  executive,  so  they 
voted  me  in. 

I  moved  to  Ogden  and  that  is  where  my  house  is,  but  over  these 
years  I  have  learned  my  home  is  there  only  in  part.  My  home  has 
been  in  Park  Valley,  in  Snowville,  in  Howell,  in  Deweyville,  in 
Croyden,  in  Devil's  Slide,  in  Morgan,  in  Willard,  in  Mantua,  in 
Kaysville,  in  Layton,  in  Clearfield,  in  Syracuse,  in  Hooper,  in  Plain 
City,  in  Huntsville,  and  in  all  of  the  hamlets  where  boys  have  been 
gathered  together  as  Boy  Scouts. 

In  the  counties  of  northern  Utah,  loyal  bodies  of  men,  under 
the  direction  of  their  bishops  and  stake  presidents,  have  been  called 
and  have  labored  with  those  lads.  It  has  been  my  fortunate  lot  to 
serve  with  them  and  to  serve  them.  I  know  of  no  better  group,  and 
it  is  likely  that  I  shall  never  meet  a  more  loyal  group. 

They  have  been  an  honor  to  me,  loyal  and  true.  I  have  camped 
with  them;  I've  hiked  the  hills  with  them;  we've  talked  over  Scout 
problems  together;  and  we've  tried  to  make  the  boys  of  the  Church 
better  Latter-day  Saints.  As  I  say,  if  I  have  had  the  call  which  I 
have  received,  come,  it  must  be  because  of  the  support  these  men 
have  given  me,  not  because  of  any  inherent  virtue  which  I  possess, 
and  I  pay  tribute  to  them,  and  I  thank  them  for  their  support. 

Perhaps  I  shouldn't  say  this,  but  when  I  reached  home  last 
night,  I  received  a  call  from  a  very  close  friend  who  said,  "Well, 
that's  fine  for  you,  but  what  will  the  poor  Boy  Scouts  do?"  I  can 
assure  you  that  there  are  dozens  of  professional  men  in  scouting  who 
are  Latter-day  Saints,  humble,  honest,  upright  men  who  could  step 
into  the  position  I  hold  and  do  a  much  better  job  than  I  am  doing  or 
have  done,  so  you  need  not  fear,  my  friends  of  the  Ogden  area. 
When  the  time  comes  for  me  to  step  down  from  that  position  and 
take  another,  there  will  rise  up,  at  the  hands  of  those  who  elect  him, 
one  who  will  do  a  better  job  than  I,  and  one  with  whom  you  will  be 
satisfied,  I  am  sure. 

A  Tribute  To  Elder  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

I  should  like  to  pay  tribute  to  my  old  mission  president,  and  to 
his  wife.  I  was  one  of  those  persons  who  were  fortunate  enough  to 
be  under  the  direction  of  President  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  back  in  the 
days  when  he  was  a  vigorous  mission  president.  He  sent  me  out 
with  Elder  Boyd  Rogers  without  purse  or  scrip,  into  the  wilds  of 
Louisiana  to  preach  the  gospel.  I  didn't  know  the  reason  why  he 
sent  me  to  Louisiana,  so  he  told  me  one  time.  I  was  quite  a  loud 
youth.   I  had  a  voice  like  a  foghorn,  and  I  laughed  like  one,  so  when 


ELDER  ALMA  SOMME 


101 


he  heard  me  laugh  in  the  mission  office  one  day  after  I  arrived,  he 
said,  "You  go  to  Louisiana.  You  can  laugh  down  there,  and  they 
can't  hear  you."  Elder  Rogers  and  I  went  down  there  where  they 
couldn't  hear  us,  and  for  three  days  they  didn't  hear  us.  We  were 
lost  in  the  piney  woods  of  Louisiana.  One  of  the  happiest  moments 
I  have  experienced  in  this  conference  today  is  to  have  Elder  Rogers, 
whom  I  haven't  seen  since,  step  up  here  and  make  himself  acquainted 
with  me. 

President  Bennion  was  a  father  to  me.  Sister  Bennion  was  a 
mother  for  more  than  two  years.  I  regret  the  passing  of  President 
Bennion  more  than  I  can  tell  you,  and  I  should  like  to  say  over  this 
radio  to  Sister  Bennion  that  I  love  her  nearly  as  much  as  I  love  my 
own  mother. 

I  desire  to  serve  you  in  humbleness  and  sincerity,  but  I  also  de- 
sire strength  of  body  and  of  mind  to  testify  to  the  truth  of  what  I 
know  so  well.  I  know  that  Christ  founded  this  Church  in  these  last 
days  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  that  it  sits  solidly  and  squarely 
on  the  rock  of  revelation,  given  to  its  living  prophet,  President  Heber 
J.  Grant.  If  I  can  bear  that  testimony  to  the  world  wherevar  I  am 
called,  I  shall  be  happy.  I  shall  serve  with  all  the  strength  I  have 
and  with  all  my  might  and  with  all  my  mind,  until  that  time  when  I 
am  called  hence,  and  meet  my  father  and  my  grandparents  and  my 
son.    I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Christ.  Amen. 

■  i 

President  Clark; 

You  have  just  listened  to  President  Seymour  Dilworth  Young 
of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 

I  should  like  to  tell  you,  President  Young,  that  President  Bennion 
left  a  record  of  your  work  in  the  mission  field,  which  speaks  as  highly 
of  your  devotion  to  your  work  and  of  you  yourself,  as  you  have  spok- 
en here  regarding  President  Bennion. 

Elder  Sonne,  of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next 
and  concluding  speaker. 

ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  circumstances  under 
which  we  meet  and  the  stirring  messages  to  which  we  have  listened 
give  rise  to  many  reflections.  I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  strength  and 
stability  of  the  Church.  I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  zeal  and  the  enthusi- 
asm of  the  leaders  of  this  Church,  and  I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  faith 
and  the  integrity  and  the  unswerving  devotion  of  the  membership  of 
this  Church.  I  say  to  you  that  God  is  at  the  helm.  He  is  directing  this 
people.    He  will  continue  to  inspire  the  leaders  of  this  Church.  I 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  7  Second  Dag 

appreciate  more  than  I  can  tell  my  membership  in  the  Church,  my 
testimony  of  the  truth,  the  great  privileges,  and  the  great  opportuni- 
ties which  have  come  to  me  because  of  that  membership. 

Accomplishments  of  the  Church 

Reference  has  been  made  frequently  to  the  greatness  of  the 
Church.  The  Church  is  great,  not  necessarily  great  in  number,  be- 
cause there  are  many  churches  which  outnumber  us  in  members,  but 
our  Church,  the  Church  of  Christ,  is  great  in  purpose,  in  plan  and 
objectives.  It  is  great  in  leadership,  past  and  present,  local  and  gen- 
eral. It  is  great  in  historical  background;  its  history  forms  a  big  part 
in  the  drama  of  American  accomplishments.  Our  history  is  colorful, 
interesting,  stirring,  full  of  romance,  full  of  tragedy,  and  yet  full  of 
achievement.  The  membership  of  this  Church  have  built  villages, 
cities,  commonwealths,  churches,  schools,  and  temples — and  the  end 
is  not  yet.  The  organization  and  the  movement  characteristic  of  the 
Church  have  always  been  surcharged  with  a  constructive  spirit.  Past 
leaders  have  subdued  the  desert.  They  have  set  up  high  standards 
for  you  and  me  to  follow.  They  have  developed  a  literature  that 
will  live  in  the  world,  a  literature  that  explains  and  interprets  the 
teachings  of  Jesus,  of  Paul,  of  Moses,  and  of  other  great  men  who 
stand  as  the  pivots  of  history.  What  would  these  men  say  if  they 
came  back  today  with  a  message?  What  would  Moses,  the  lawgiv- 
er of  Israel  say?  He  would  teach,  as  he  taught  when  he  lived,  the 
divinity  of  the  Ten  Commandments.  So  important  are  these  com- 
mandments that  neither  men  nor  nations  can  violate  them,  if  they 
want  to  live  and  achieve.  What  would  Paul,  the  apostle,  say?  He 
would  say  to  the  skeptics  as  he  did  to  King  Agrippa,  "Why  should 
it  be  thought  a  thing  incredible  with  you,  that  God  should  raise  the 
dead?"  (Acts  26:8),  virtually  saying,  "You  ask  me  to  explain  the 
resurrection.  I  call  upon  you  to  substantiate  the  denial  of  this  great 
doctrine."  He  would  say,  as  he  did  to  King  Agrippa,  ".  .  .  believest 
thou  the  prophets?"  (Acts  26:27.)  I  tell  you  the  world  has  gone 
astray  because  they  have  failed  to  believe  the  prophets. 

What  would  Jesus  say?  He  would  preach  again  his  wonder- 
ful, unparalleled  Sermon  on  the  Mount  and  tell  the  nations  to  heed 
the  teachings,  because  in  it  are  the  elements  of  salvation.  What 
would  Joseph  Smith  say?  He  would  give  his  testimony  as  he  gave  it 
when  he  was  alive.  He  would  tell  you  and  me  and  the  world  that 
he  saw  God  the  Father,  that  he  gazed  upon  him  and  heard  the  voice 
of  the  risen  Redeemer.  I  testify  to  you  that  God's  work  has  been 
established  upon  the  earth.  It  will  grow  and  increase  until  it  reach- 
es the  hearts  of  men  everywhere.  It  will  not  fail.  God  help  us  to 
discharge  our  responsibilities  and  to  introduce  into  our  lives  the  sav- 
ing principles  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  I  pray  in  his 
name.  Amen. 


> 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


103 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

There  are  three  or  four  minutes  still  left.  Perhaps  we  should 
not  let  them  go  without  trying  to  have  something  said  that  might  be 
helpful. 

I  am  sure  we  have  all  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  the  conference  to  this 
time.  I  am  equally  sure  that  that  same  spirit  will  remain  with  us  dur- 
ing the  balance  of  the  conference,  for  we  meet  in  humility  with  a  sense 
of  our  own  unworthiness  and  with  a  desire  to  serve  God  and  keep 
his  commandments. 

Nearly  two  thousand  years  ago  the  Lord,  walking  by  the  sea- 
shore, again  saw  brethren  whom  he  had  seen  before.  They  were  busy 
with  their  nets  and  their  boats.  And  he  said  to  them:  "Follow  me 
and  I  will  make  you  fishers  of  men."  They  had  little  training,  little 
education;  they  were  of  the  humble  folk  of  the  land  in  which  they 
lived,  but  they  had  spirit  and  a  spirituality,  they  had  faith;  so  they 
left  their  nets  and  their  boats  and  followed  him.  And  that  is  all  the 
Lord  requires  of  us  today. 

I  think  perhaps  he  cares  little  for  our  achievements  among  men, 
little  for  what'  we  have  done  in  a  worldly  way  in  the  past,  provided 
we  come  to  him  with  a  qualification  which  seems  to  me  to  be  all-em- 
bracing: a  pure  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit.  Without  these  we  shall 
fail,  with  them  we  can  but  succeed. 

The  Lord  expects  this  from  all  of  us  at  all  times  and  on  all  oc- 
casions. He  expects  us  to  forget  the  honors  we  may  have  gained 
from  this  world  and  our  work  therein  and  to  come  to  him,  humble  and 
contrite,  with  a  firm  desire  and  a  firm  determination  to  follow  him  and 
become  fishers  of  men.  May  this  be  our  lot,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  Clark: 

The  Congregation  will  now  sing :  "Abide  With  Me,"  Song  Fold- 
er No.  17,  L.D.S.  Hymns  180,  Hymn  Book  No.  376. 

President  Moses  C.  Taylor  of  the  South  Summit  Stake  will  offer 
the  closing  prayer,  after  which  the  conference  will  stand  adjourned 
until  7  o'clock  this  evening.  That  meeting  will  not  be  broadcast.  The 
sessions  at  10  and  2  o'clock  on  tomorrow,  Sunday,  will  be  broadcast 
over  KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  KSUB  at  Cedar  City. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Abide  With  Me." 
Elder  Moses  C.  Taylor,  President  of  the  South  Summit  Stake, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7  p.m. 


104 

Saturday.  April  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


SECOND  DAY 
EVENING  MEETING 

The  Saturday  evening  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  7 
o'clock  p.m.  The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  was  present  and 
furnished  music  for  this  session. 

President  Clark: 

Brethren,  it  is  a  great  relief  to  be  free  from  the  tyranny  and  slave- 
driving  of  these  "mikes."  Tonight  we  can  go  forward  as  we  would 
like. 

I  notice — I  hope  you  will  pardon  me — that  increasingly  there  are 
more  people  coming  in  late.  I  know  you  must  be  busy  but  please  try 
to  get  in  early,  and  tomorrow  morning  particularly.  We  shall  then 
meet  in  the  Tabernacle  for  the  broadcast  and  Church  of  the  Air  serm- 
on, and  we  should  like  you  to  be  there  certainly  not  later  than  a  quar- 
ter to  10:00,  because  we  have  to  have  our  opening  exercises  before  the 
broadcast  begins,  and  there  must  be  some  time  between  the  time  that 
we  get  through  to  the  beginning  of  the  broadcast. 

Tomorrow  afternoon  we  shall  meet  again  in  this  building  at  2 
o'clock,  and  I  repeat:  please,  in  the  morning  particularly,  be  on  time. 

We  will  begin  the  evening  services  by  the  congregation  singing 
with  the  Male  Chorus:  "Come  All  Ye  Sons  of  God."  You  will  find 
it  in  your  Song  Folder  No.  25. 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  is  conducting  the  singing,  and  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

After  the  singing,  President  Joel  G.  Sedgwick,  of  the  San  Ber~ 
nardino  Stake,  will  offer  the  invocation. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Come  All  Ye  Sons  of  God." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joel  G.  Sedgwick, 
President  of  the  San  Bernardino  Stake. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  sang,  "Prayer  At  Even- 
ing," (by  Josephi). 

President  Clark: 

The  considerable  number  of  officers  and  General  Authorities  to 
whom  we  wish  to  give  opportunities  to  speak,  compels  us  to  have  this 
meeting,  which  formerly  was  known  as  a  Priesthood  meeting,  take  on 
more  and  more  the  character  of  one  of  the  regular  meetings  of  the 
General  Conference,  and  in  order  to  get  through  we  are  under  the 
necessity  of  asking  some  of  the  Brethren,  each  time,  to  forego  the  op- 
portunity of  being  heard  "over  the  air,"  and  to  speak  to  those  only 
who  are  here. 

Our  first  speaker  tonight  will  be  Elder  Ezra  T.  Benson,  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  cannot  refrain,  my  brethren,  from  expressing  my  personal  grati- 
fication on  the  selection  of  the  two  fine  men,  Brother  Seymour  Dil- 
worth  Young  and  Milton  Reed  Hunter  to  serve  as  members  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  As  one  who  has  recently  come 
into  the  presiding  councils  of  the  Church,  I  can  assure  them  that  they 
can  look  forward  to  some  of  the  sweetest,  most  soul-satisfying  ex- 
periences that  come  to  men  in  this  life.  With  all  my  heart  I  welcome 
them  and  assure  them  of  my  love  and  confidence. 

Obligations  Resting  Upon  the  Church 

I  have  been  impressed  during  this  conference,  with  the  ■  great 
responsibilities  and  obligations  resting  upon  this  Church  and  its  peo- 
ple. I  was  impressed  with  the  inspiring  message  of  President  Grant, 
which  called  to  our  attention  some  of  these  obligations  which  are  ours 
as  leaders.  I  have  often  felt  that  there  are  three  great  and  important 
obligations,  possibly  over-shadowing  all  others,  which  rest  upon  this 
people  and  upon  this  great  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  The  first  of  these,  at  least  in  the  order  of  emphasis  in  this  dis- 
pensation, is  that  of  missionary  work — the  responsibility  which  rests 
upon  this  people  to  carry  the  message  of  the  restored  gospel  to  the 
people  of  the  world.  We  have  been  engaged  in  that  work  ever  since 
the  Church  was  organized,  yea,  even  before.  Secondly,  we  have  the 
responsibility  of  building  up  the  stakes  and  wards  and  branches  of 
Zion.  This  entails  the  building  of  a  material  kingdom,  as  well  as,  a 
spiritual  kingdom.  It  entails  the  providing  of  facilities — houses  of 
worship,  temples,  seminary  buldings — that  are  so  necessary  for  us  to 
carry  on  the  spiritual  part  of  the  program.  It  entails  taking  care  of  our 
people,  temporally,  physically,  culturally,  and  socially,  as  well  as 
spiritually.  And  in  the  third  place,  we  have  the  great  responsibility 
of  performing  certain  sacred  ordinances  in  the  temples  of  the  Lord, — 
a  responsibility  which  rests  upon  every  holder  of  the  priesthood  as 
well  as  upon  the  sisters  of  the  Church. 

Missionary  Responsibility 

I  was  pleased  to  note  the  importance  which  President  Grant 
placed  in  his  message  on  the  first  mentioned  obligation — that  of  mis- 
sionary service.  In  reading  the  revelations  which  the  Lord  has  given 
to  us  in  this  dispensation,  I  have  been  impressed  to  note  that  prob- 
ably on  no  other  subject  has  he  referred  so  frequently  as  in  the  case 
of  our  obligation  as  a  people  to  carry  this  message  of  the  restored 
gospel  to  the  people  of  the  world.  In  reading  again  the  revelations 
which  the  Lord  has  given  us,  I  noted  that  at  least  twenty-five  to  thirty 
of  these  revelations  make  specific  mention  of  this  great  responsibility 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7 


Second  Day 


which  is  ours.  I  noted,  too,  that  in  some  of  the  revelations,  given 
more  than  a  year  before  the  Church  was  organized,  the  Lord  made 
special  mention  of  this  important  mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
May  I  call  your  attention,  this  evening,  to  a  few  of  those  revelations? 
There  will  not  be  time  to  discuss,  in  any  detail,  any  of  them.  I  simply 
call  them  to  your  attention.   In  February  of  1 829,  the  Lord  said  this : 

Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the 
children  of  men. 

Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve 
him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand 
blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  4:1,  2.) 

Then  he  goes  on  to  point  out  in  that  and  other  revelations : 

Behold,  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest;  therefore,  whoso  desir- 
eth  to  reap,  let  him  thrust  in  his  sickle  with  his  might,  and  reap  while  the 
day  lasts,  that  he  may  treasure  up  for  his  soul  everlasting  salvation  in  the 
kingdom  of  God.    (Doc.  and  Cov.  6:3.) 

Many  of  those  who  came  in  contact  with  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
even  prior  to  the  organization  of  the  Church,  became  convinced  and 
received  testimonies  of  the  genuineness  of  his  message.  It  was  not 
an  uncommon  thing  for  them  to  approach  the  Prophet  and  ask  him  to 
inquire  of  the  Lord  as  to  their  responsibilities  and  obligations.  You 
recall  the  important  part  played  by  the  Whitmer  family.  It  was  in 
the  home  of.  Peter  Whitmer,  Sr.,  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was- trans- 
lated— at  least  the  latter  part  of  it  was  completed  there.  John,  David, 
and  Peter  Whitmer,  Jr.,  approached  the  Prophet  and  asked  if  he 
would  inquire  of  the  Lord  as  to  what  they  might  do, — what  was  their 
duty  as  men  who  had  recently  received  the  testimony  of,  the  truth.  The 
Prophet  made  inquiry  and  we  have  three  sections  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  devoted  to  the  answer  to  these  inquiries.  They  are  very 
similar.  May  I  read  from  section  15 — the  answer  to  the  request  of 
John  Whitmer. 

Hearken,  my  servant  John,  and  listen  to  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ, 
your  Lord  and  your  Redeemer. 

For  behold,  I  speak  unto  you  with  sharpness  and  with  power,  for 
mine  arm  is  over  all  the  earth. 

And  I  will  tell  you  that  which  no  man  knoweth  save  me  and  thee 
alone — 

For  many  times  you  have  desired  of  me  to  know  that  which  would 
be  of  most  worth  unto  you. 

Behold,  blessed  are  you  for  this  thing,  and  for  speaking  my  words 
which  I  had  given  you  according  to  my  commandments. 

And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  the  thing  which  will  be  of  most 
worth  unto  you  will  be  to  declare  repentance  unto  this  people,  that  you 
may  bring  souls  unto  me,  that  you  may  rest  with  them  in  the  kingdom  of 
my  Father.  Amen. 

It  was  only  a  short  time  after  this  that  the  Lord  in  another  revela- 
tion, in  which  he  indicated  the  calling  of  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  in  this  dispensation,  made  this  statement: 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON  1 07 

Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God; 

For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh; 
wherefore  he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and 
come  unto  him.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  18:10  and  11.) 

And  further: 

And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repent- 
ance unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great 
shall  be  your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father.  (Doc.  and 
Cov.  18:15.) 

The  Lord  spoke  frequently  regarding  the  obligations  of  the  eld- 
ers of  the  Church  and  ofttimes  commended  them  for  their  faithfulness 
and  devotion,  even  to  the  extent  of  indicating  that  whatever  they  spoke 
when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost  would  be  the  will  of  the  Lord, 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  would  be  scripture  to  the  people.  Yet,  at 
times,  in  those  days,  as  in  this  day,  there  were  men  who  feared  men 
more  than  the  Lord,  and  occasionally  he  had  reason  to  chastise  some 
of  the  elders  of  the  Church. 

In  section  60,  we  read  the  following  verse : 

But  with  some  I  am  not  well  pleased,  for  they  will  not  open  their 
mouths,  but  they  hide  the  talent  which  I  have  given  unto  them,  because 
of  the  fear  of  man.  Wo  unto  such,  for  mine  anger  is  kindled  against 
them. 

And  then  in  the  68th  section — reference  to  which  I  have  already 
made — 

And  whatsoever  they  shall  speak  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost  shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  mind  of 
the  Lord,  shall  be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  and 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.    (Doc.  and  Cov.  68:4.) 

And  this  additional  great  and  important  promise,  made  to  those 
who  go  forward  as  missionaries  carrying  the  message  of  the  restored 
gospel: 

And  any  man  that  shall  go  and  preach  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom, 
and  fail  not  to  continue  faithful  in  all  things,  shall  not  be  weary  in  mind, 
neither  darkened,  neither  in  body,  limb,  nor  joint;  and  a  hair  of  his  head 
shall  not  bow  to  the  ground  unnoticed.  And  they  shall  not  go  hungry, 
neither  athirst.    (Doc.  and  Cov.  84:80.)  * 

So  the  early  missionaries  of  the  Church  went  forward,  beginning 
with  Samuel  H.  Smith,  only  a  few  days  after  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized. The  number  increased  until  the  message  was  carried  to  all  parts 
of  the  then  known  United  States — into  Canada,  and  by  1837,  mis- 
sionaries were  on  the  eastern  hemisphere.  Even  during  the  dark  days 
of  Missouri  and  Illinois  and  in  the  pilgrimage  across  the  plains,  mis- 
sionaries went  forward  with  their  work.  At  times  it  was  interrupted 
slightly,  but  always  there  was  that  urge  and  desire  on  the  part  of.  the 
elders  of  the  Church,  who  had  burning  within  their  souls  the  testimony 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second,  Day 


of  the  truth — to  carry  the  message  of  the  restored  gospel  to  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world.  After  the  Saints  arrived  in  the  valley,  it  was  not  an 
uncommon  thing  to  have  read  long  lists  of  names  of  men  attending 
the  general  conference  of  the  Church,  who  were  called  to  go  into  the 
mission  field  and  carry  the  message  of  the  restored  gospel.  In  later 
years  it  became  the  custom  to  issue  the  calls  by  letter. 

A  Personal  Family  Experience 

I  shall  ever  be  grateful  for  an  experience  which  came  into  our 
family  during  this  latter  period  that  I  refer  to;  something  over  thirty 
years  ago.  It  was  during  the  time  when  sacrament  meetings  were  held 
on  Sunday  afternoon,  at  two  o'clock,  at  least  in  the  rural  wards.  I 
remember  very  well  this  particular  Sunday  afternoon,  as  father  and 
mother  returned  from  sacrament  meeting,  in  the  one  horse  buggy.  As 
they  drove  into  the  yard  and  their  little  brood  of  seven  kiddies  gath- 
ered around  the  buggy,  we  witnessed  a  thing  which  we  had  never 
seen  before  in  our  family.  Both  father  and  mother  were  in  tears. 
We  had  often  seen  mother  in  tears  and  father,  offering  consolation, 
or  father  weeping  and  mother  offering  sympathy.  But  never  before 
had  we  seen  them  both  crying  at  the  same  time.  We  inquired  as  to 
the  reason,  and  we  were  assured  that  everything  was  all  right.  As 
we  followed  them  into  the  house  and  sat  down  in  the  living  room, 
mother  told  us  that  father  had  received  a  letter  from  Box  "B."  That 
was  a  call  to  go  on  a  mission.  She  explained  that  they  were  grateful 
that  he  was  considered  worthy  to  go  and  that  they  were  happy;  but 
they  knew  that  it  meant  separation  for  a  period  of  two  years,  and  they 
had  never  been  separated  more  than  one  night  at  a  time  in  all  of  their 
married  life. 

This  is  only  a  little  thing.  Practically  every  family  in  the  Church 
could  tell  similar  and  even  more  impressive  experiences  in  connection 
with  this  great  missionary  movement.  Father  went,  as  your  fathers 
and  grandfathers  went.  The  eighth  member  of  our  family  was  born 
after  he  got  into  the  field.  How  I  appreciate  the  faith  of  our  mothers, 
and  our  grandmothers.  Important  has  been  their  responsibility  in 
connection  with  this  great  missionary  service. 

Missionary  Work  of  Men  In  the  Armed  Service 

Now,  during  this  critical  period,  through  which  we  are  passing— 
this  war  period — our  missionary  program  has  been  seriously  inter- 
fered with.  I  visited  a  mission  not  long  ago  and  found  not  one  single 
young  man  of  military  age  in  the  missionary  service — all  were  in  the 
armed  service  of  their  country.  The  missionary  corps  was  about  ten 
percent  of  the  normal  number  and  made  up  almost  entirely  of  taoung 
women  missionaries  and  elderly  married  couples.  And  yet,  as  I  have 
thought  of  this  war  condition,  through  which  we  are  passing,  and  the 
effect  upon  our  missionary  program, — I  cannot  help  feeling  that  we 
are  probably  doing  more  total  missionary  work  today  than  we  have 
ever  done  in  the  history  of  the  Church.   While  our  number  of  full- 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


109 


time  missionaries  has  been  reduced,  we  have,  it  is  estimated,  almost 
one  hundred  thousand  of  our  young  men  in  the  service  of  their  coun- 
try, hundreds  and  thousands  of  whom  are  doing  effective  missionary 
work. 

There  came  to  my  office  a  few  days  ago  a  young  marine,  a  former 
stake  missionary,  with  one  of  his  buddies.  He  told  me  that  he  had 
been  doing  missionary  work  with  his  associates.  He  had  recently 
baptized  this  young  man,  and  they  had  come  to  the  Church  office 
building,  during  their  leave,  in  the  hope  that  this  new  convert  to  the 
Church  could  receive  a  patriarchal  blessing. 

Only  this  week  there  came  to  my  office  several  young  men,  in  the 
uniform  of  their  country,  who  were  thrilled  with  the  experiences  they 
were  having  in  the  mission  field,  although  in  the  service  of  their  coun- 
try. One  of  them  said,  "Brother  Benson,  it  is  just  like  being  on  anoth- 
er mission.  Conditions  are  different,  but  we  have  opportunities  to 
preach  the  gospel,  and  we  are  taking  advantage  of  it."  A  letter  from 
a  young  man  down  in  the  South  Pacific,  only  a  few  days  ago,  told  of 
the  struggle  they  had  had  on  one  of  the  islands  to  get  together  a 
small  group  of  Latter-day  Saints.  He  said  the  first  time  they  held  a 
meeting  there  were  only  three  present.  Then,  gradually  the  number 
increased  until  the  day  he  wrote  the  letter,  which  was  Sunday,  he  said, 
"There  were  sixteen  of  us  at  the  service  today.  Four  of  the  boys 
have  joined  the  Church  since  the  war  started." 

And  so,  my  brethren,  I  feel  that  we  have  cause  to  rejoice  that  we 
have  boys  in  the  service  with  faith  sufficient,  with  the  testimony  of 
the  truth  that  impels  them  to  carry  that  missionary  spirit  to  their  bud- 
dies in  arms. 

The  Message  of  the  Restoration  Must  Go  Forward 

I  know  there  are  many  of  our  friends  outside  the  Church  who 
wonder  why  we  do  it,  why  we  make  the  sacrifice,  why  we  go  to  the 
expense  of  sending  out  missionaries.  We  have  sent,  it  is  estimated, 
approximately  seventy-five  thousand  missionaries  into  the  field  dur- 
ing the  brief  existence  of  the  Church;  at  a  cost,  I  am  sure,  if  we  figure 
the  money  expended  and  the  income  sacrificed,  of  possibly  more  than 
two  hundred  million  dollars.  Why  do  we  do  it?  I  received  a  letter 
following  the  last  general  conference  from  a  young  man  from  this  city, 
not  a  member  of  the  Church,  who  asked  that  very  question: 

"Why  does  the  Mormon  Church  continue  to  send  missionaries  out 
into  the  world,  particularly  to  Christian  countries?"  May  I  read  the 
words  of  the  First  Presidency  of  this  Church,  uttered  three  years  ago 
yesterday,  from  this  very  pulpit,  in  which  they  gave  answer  to  this 
question. 

It  is  our  duty,  divinely  imposed,  to  continue  urgently  and  militantly  to 
carry  forward  our  missionary  work.  We  must  continue  to  call  mission- 
aries and  send  them  out  to  preach  the  gospel,  which  was  never  more  needed 
than  now,  which  is  the  only  remedy  for  the  tragic  ills  that  now  afflict  the 
world,  and  which  alone  can  bring  peace  and  brotherly  love  back  amongst 
the  peoples  of  the  earth. 


110 

Saturday.  April  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Therefore  no  act  of  ours  or  of  the  Church  must  interfere  with  this 
God-given  mandate.  This  is  not  a  matter  of  our  own  choosing.  It  is 
not  something  that  has  been  devised  by  man.  The  Lord  has  made  it 
clear  to  us,  my  brethren,  that  the  responsibility  is  ours,  as  holders  of 
the  priesthood,  to  carry  this  message  of  the  restored  gospel  to  the 
people  of  the  world.  And  now,  during  this  period  of  war-stimulated 
prosperity,  when  money  seems  to  flow  freely,  we  hope  that  as  leaders 
in  Zion — as  fathers — we  are  making  some  plans  to  create  a  reserve  so 
that  when  this  great  struggle  is  over,  our  missionary  work  can  go  for- 
ward with  greater  impetus  and  in  greater  volume  than  ever  before  in 
the  history  of  the  Church. 

The  Preface  To  the  Lord's  Commandments 

I  should  like  to  refer,  in  closing,  to  one  other  section  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  I  mention  this  and  call  this  revelation  to  your 
attention  for  the  purpose  of  indicating  that  our  message  is  a  world 
message.  It  is  not  regional,  it  is  not  national,  it  is  a  message  intended 
for  all  God's  children.  I  refer  to  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  given  years  after  some  of  these  revelations  that  I  have  re- 
ferred to.  It  was  given  for  a  particular  purpose,  to  appear  as  the  pre- 
face to  this  book  of  commandments  which  the  Lord  has  given  us  in  this 
dispensation.  These  are  the  words  of  the  Lord,  to  this  Church  and  to 
the  world: 

Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  Church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who 
dwells  on  high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I  say: 
Hearken  ye  people  from  afar;  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea, 
listen  together.  For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there 
is  none  to  escape;  .  .  .  And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people, 
by  the  mouths  of  my  disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days.  .  .  . 
Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and  the  authority  of  my  servants,  and  my 
preface  unto  the  book  of  my  commandments,  which  I  have  given  them 
to  publish  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

And  then  further  on: 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth:  I  the 
Lord  am  willing  to  make  these  things  known  unto  all  flesh;  For  I  am  no  re- 
spector  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know  that  the  day  speedily 
cometh;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when  peace  shall  be  taken 
from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over  his  own  dominion.  .  .  . 
Search  these  commandments,  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the  prophe- 
cies and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled.  What  I  the 
Lord  hath  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself;  and  though  the 
heavens  and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass  away,  but  shall 
all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice  of  my  servants, 
it  is  the  same.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  1:1-3,  4,  6,  34-35,  37-38.) 

And  so,  my  brethren  of  the  priesthood,  our  message  is  a  world 
message,  the  obligation  is  ours.  The  Lord  expects  us  to  carry  his  mes- 
sage to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  Possibly  never  before  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  world,  has  there  been  a  greater  need  for  the  simple,  but  di- 
vine message  of  the  restored  gospel.  God  help  us  to  do  our  duty  in 
this  respect,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  1 1 1 

■  - 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren,  we  are  alone  this  evening,  the  microphone  having 
been  switched  off  from  the  powerful  KSL  broadcasting  station.  We, 
therefore,  become  a  priesthood  leadership  meeting  of  the  same  type 
as  we  are  now  holding  as  a  part  of  stake  quarterly  conferences.  So  it 
will  be  in  order  for  me,  I  hope,  to  talk  about  matters  that  primarily 
concern  priesthood  officers. 

Effects  of  Harshness  and  Kindness 

In  the  bishops'  meeting  last  evening  in  this  hall,  Bishop  M.  O. 
Ashton  told  two  stories  that  deeply  impressed  me.  Each  story  was 
about  a  bishop  and  some  boys.  In  the  first  one,  a  group  of  boys  en- 
gaged in  some  Halloween  pranks  of  a  rather  serious,  provocative  na- 
ture. The  bishop  secured  the  names  of  the  boys  and  charged  them 
to 'come  to  the  sacrament  meeting  and  publicly  ask  forgiveness  for 
engaging  in  the  pranks  committed,  on  pain  of  excommunication  for 
failure  to  do  so.  In  consequence  there  are  in  that  community  today 
a  number  of  families  that  grew  up  outside  of  the  Church. 

In  the  second  case  a  group  of  boys  and  a  bishop  were  involved. 
A  wedding  party  was  held  at  the  bishop's  home.  A  big  freezer  of 
ice  cream  waited  on  the  back  porch  for  the  refreshment  hour.  When 
the  cream  was  to  be  served,  it  was  observed  that  the  freezer  was 
empty.  Pondering  over  the  matter  the  bishop  decided  to  invite  the 
guilty  boys  to  an  ice  cream  festival  and  provided  two  freezers  of  ice 
cream  for  the  occasion.  All  the  boys  accepted  the  invitation.  When 
the  lads  were  seated  at  the  feast,  it  was  noticed  that  tears  began  to 
run  down  one  boy's  face.  Soon  all  the  other  boys  were  in  tears  also. 
From  among  that  group  have  come  some  of  the  finest  leaders  in  their 
community. 

Those  were  the  factual  stories  told  by  Bishop  Ashton.  Hearing 
them  I  was  reminded  of  section  121:39-41,  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
which  reads  as  follows: 

We  have  learned  by  sad  experience  that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposi- 
tion of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as  they  sup- 
pose, they  will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 
Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  No  power  or  influence  can 
or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  priesthood,  only  by  persuas- 
ion, by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness,  and  by  love  un- 
feigned. 

The  two  bishops  of  the  story  were  undoubtedly  actuated  by 
the  best  of  motives.  Not  for  a  moment  would  I  question  that.  But 
one  bishop  was  wise  and  the  other  unwise.  The  thought  in  the 
mind  of  one  was  to  use  persuasion,  long-suffering,  gentleness,  meek- 
ness, and  love,  so  beautifully  stated  in  the  revelation  quoted.  In  the 
case  of  the  other  bishop  he  seems  to  have  acted  impulsively,  yielding 


1 1 2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Day 

to  the  influence  of  the  evil  power.  He  forgot  the  scriptural  injunc- 
tion found  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  64:9-10: 


Wherefore,  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye  ought  to  forgive  one  another;  for 
he  that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his  trespasses  standeth  condemned  before 
the  Lord;  for  there  remaineth  in  him  the  greater  sin.  I,  the  Lord,  will  for- 
give whom  I  will  forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required  to  forgive  all  men." 

I  do  not  find  in  the  teachings  of  the  Master  the  word  "must" 
used  in  the  sense  of  force.  But  we  do  find  the  message  of  the  fore- 
going quoted  scripture  printed  in  a  beautiful  hymn,  found  in  the 
L.D.S.  Hymn  Book,  24th  edition,  1905,  the  first  two  stanzas  being 
as  follows: 

Know  this,  that  ev'ry  soul  is  free 
To  choose  his  life  and  what  he'll  be; 
For  this  eternal  truth  is  given, 
That  God  will  force  no  man  to  heaven 

He'll  call,  persuade,  direct  aright, 
And  bless  with  wisdom,  love,  and  light; 
In  nameless  ways  be  good  and  kind, 
But  never  force  the  human  mind. 

Free  Agency  A  God-given  Principle 

We  all  remember,  according  to  the  scriptures,  both  ancient  and 
modern,  in  that  great  council  held  in  heaven  when  a  plan  was  being 
considered  to  offer  the  Father's  children  when  they  came  to  earth, 
that  Lucifer,  the  son  of  the  morning,  was  there.  He  wanted  to  be 
sent  to  earth  to  have  charge,  promising  the  Father  that  all  his  chil- 
dren would  be  returned  to  him — none  to  be  lost — provided  the  Lord 
would  give  Lucifer  his  glory.  (See  Moses  4:1-4.)  Satan  proposed 
to  accomplish  his  purpose  by  the  use  of  force- — by  denying  men 
their  free  agency,  taking  from  them  their  inalienable  right  that  the 
Father  gave  to  all'  his  children  in  the  spirit  world  as  well  as  in  the 
world  of  mortality.  Free  agency  and  accountability  go  hand  in 
hand — they  complement  each  other. 

But  I  have  digressed;  let  me  return.  There  is  no  indication  in 
the  stories  Bishop  Ashton  told  that  either  bishop  wanted  to  take  free 
agency  from  the  boys,  but  they  certainly  wanted  to  reform  the  boys. 
One  succeeded,  and  the  other  failed,  due  to  the  methods  employed. 
And  this  suggests  the  need  for  care,  study,  and  prayer  not  only  in 
dealing  with  boys  but  in  dealing  with  all  other  people  as  well.  Per- 
haps no  two  individuals  are  exactly  alike.  What  is  good  for  one 
may  be  bad  for  another.  What  succeeds  with  one  may  utterly  fail 
with  another.  I  have  heard  physicians  say  that  this  is  one  reason 
that  makes  the  practice  of  medicine  interesting — the  fact  that  the 
doctor  continually  faces  a  challenge;  for  what  is  one  man's  meat 
may  be  another  man's  poison. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL  1 1 3 


Bishops'  Duties 

In  large  measure,  a  bishop  deals  with  individuals  rather  than 
with  people  en  masse.  If  it  were  not  so,  there  would  often  be  insuf- 
ficient reasons  for  dividing  a  large  ward,  for  large  wards  have  some 
advantages  not  usually  possessed  by  smaller  ones.  But  the  need 
of  individual  treatment  requires  of  the  bishop  wisdom,  discernment, 
tact,  sympathy,  love,  in  order  that  he  may  succeed,  without  giving 
offense,  in  best  serving  his  people.  Among  other  duties,  he  is  re- 
quired to  administer  programs  designed  to  help  the  boys  and  girls 
of  his  ward.  As  I  see  it  these  duties,  in  general,  are  second  in  im- 
portance to  no  others.  If  we  can  save  the  youth  of  the  Church,  we 
will  save  the  Church.  I  would  not  have  anyone  think,  however,  that 
the  individual  exists  for  the  Church.  The  reverse  is  true — the 
Church  exists  for  its  members.  Because  this  is  true,  the  Church  is 
perhaps  the  finest  example  of  a  large  democratic  organization  found 
in  all  the  world.  No  individual  can  grow  up  in  it,  taking  advantage 
of  the  opportunities  offered  him  therein,  without  experiencing  large 
personal  growth  and  development  in  personality,  attributes,  talents, 
powers,  and  other  leadership  qualities. 

Eternal  Progression 

Yes,  the  Church  teaches  the  fact  that  each  of  us  is  a  child  of 
God,  both  in  the  spirit  and  in  the  flesh.  Since  in  the  realm  of  life, 
like  begets  like,  we  normally  must  possess,  even  though  in  ultra- 
microscopic  quantities,  the  attributes  of  God  our  Father.  And  a 
characteristic  teaching  of  the  Church  is  that  "as  God  now  is  man 
may  become" — a  statement  in  poetic  language  of  our  magnificent 
doctrine  of  eternal  progression.  Man  is  in  very  deed  the  acme  of 
creation.    In  the  language  of  the  Psalmist  we  too  can  ask: 

What  is  man,  that  thou  are  mindful  of  him?  and  the  son  of  man,  that 
thou  visitest  him?  For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little  lower  than  the  angels, 
and  hast  crowned  him  with  glory  and  honour.  (Psalms  8:4-5.)' 

So  in  the  plan  of  eternal  progression  life  here  on  earth  is  an 
essential  link,  and  in  this  link  the  most  important  thing  is  man — the 
individual.  This  is  evident  from  the  plan  which,  if  successfully  fol- 
lowed, will  lead  the  participants  back  to  the  Father's  presence.  The 
Lord  revealed  to  Moses  that: 

.  .  .  This  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man.  (Moses  1:39.) 

To  accomplish  his  purposes  the  Lord  has  set  up  his  highly  or- 
ganized Church  as  an  agency  to  serve  his  children.  Hence  the 
Church  exists  for  us  and  for  all  who  will  accept  its  service. 


1 1 4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Day 

Service  Brings  Opportunity  and  Responsibility 


And  we  who  are  here  this  evening,  and  many  thousands  of  oth- 
ers besides,  have  been  honored  by  being  called  into  the  service  of 
the  Church  and  thus  given  opportunity  to  serve  our  fellow  men.  If 
we  serve  well,  we  will  be  blessed.  I  am  reminded  at  this  point  of 
the  words  Shakespeare  put  in  the  mouth  of  one  of  his  characters : 

...  it  [mercy]  is  twice  blessed;  It  blesses  him  that  gives  and  him  that 
takes. 

And  of  the  two,  the  giver  is  usually  the  greater  blessed — always 
so  if  he  blesses  with  a  sincere,  unselfish  motive. 

Now  let  us,  too,  remember  that  to  accept  a.  proffered  opportun- 
ity to  serve  is  to>  accept  a  responsibility  as  well.  We  then  in  very 
fact  become  to  an  extent  our  brother's  keeper.  And  in  a  larger  or  a 
smaller  measure  the  welfare  of  a  brother,  a  child  of  God,  is  in  our 
keeping.  From  this  point  of  view  how  fit  for  divine  condemnation 
is  he  who  having  accepted  responsibility  fails  in  his  duty  to  his 
brethren.  Should  not  this  thought  act  as  a  spur  to  the  discharge  of 
duty?  Should  it  not  help  to  send  us  reverently  to  our  knees  to  seek 
earnestly  and  sincerely  for  the  Lord's  aid,  suited  to  our  needs?  With- 
out his  help,  brethren,  none  of  us  can  fully  succeed  in  his  work.  But 
succeeding,  how  great  the  joy  and  satisfaction  that  fills  our  breasts 
— a  delightful  feeling  that  all  the  money  of  a  millionaire  could  not 
buy  for  us.  This  type  of  feeling  is  a  reward  from  our  God  for  serv- 
ice in  his  cause.   It  is  an  evidence  of  his  acceptance  of  our  efforts. 

Satan's  Power  Being  Exercised 

Another  point  and  I  am  done.  Let  us  not  forget'  that  Satan,  a 
spirit  brother  of  ours,  is  here  on  earth  with  a  myriad  of  other  spirit 
brothers.  They  are  among  us  for  a  purpose — they  are  doing  all  in 
their  power  to  destroy  us  and  handicap  the  work  of  the  Lord.  Satan 
knows  us — our  desires,  our  weaknesses,  our  secrets.  He  tempts  us 
in  a  multitude  of  ways.  He  attacks  us  where  we  are  weak,  not 
where  we  are  strong.  He  stirs  us  up  to  doubt,  to  question,  to  criti- 
cize, to  hate,  to  be  slothful,  discouraged,  sinful,  and  wicked.  He 
is  at  the  bottom  of  dissension  among  the  Saints.  He  is  ever  near  at 
hand  to  make  attempts  to  overcome  and  lead  us  away.  I  have  in 
mind  not  only  us  in  this  meeting  but  people  generally.  Undoubtedly 
Satan's  influence  and  power  in  the  world  today  is  greater  than  ever 
before. 

We  here  and  many  others  in  the  Church  are  called  to  be  watch- 
men upon  the  towers  of  Zion  where  duty  calls  us  to  be  faithful  in 
teaching  the  Lord's  way  of  life  by  example  as  well  as  by  precept. 
Then  we  shall  be  effective  missionaries.  And  upon  the  Church  is 
divinely  placed  the  heavy  responsibility  of  carrying  on  missionary 
work,  a  labor  to  which  all  baptized  members  are  called,  be  they  liv- 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  L.  WEST 


115 


ing  at  home  or  abroad.  No  one  can  escape  the  all-seeing  eye  of  God 
our  Father,  who  keeps  us  constantly  wherever  we  are  under  scrutiny. 
Let  us  remember  that  finally  the  books  will  be  opened  and  we  will 
be  judged  by  the  things  therein  written — the  deeds  done  in  the 
body. 

Through  his  wiles  Satan  is  leading  some  of  our  people  away. 
Describing  conditions  in  the  last  days,  Jesus,  speaking  to  his  dis- 
ciples, said: 

For  there  shall  arise  false  Christs,  and  false  prophets,  and  shall  shew 
great  signs  and  wonders;  insomuch  that,  if  it  were  possible,  they  shall  de- 
ceive the  very  elect.  (Matt.  24:24.) 

Brethren,  there  is  but  one  way  of  safety — live  honestly,  sincere- 
ly, and  whole-heartedly  near  to  the  Lord  and  be  wholly  loyal  to  the 
leadership  of  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

I  pray  that  every  one  of  us  with  the  help  of  the  Lord  will  have 
the  desire,  courage,  and  strength  thus  to  live,  and  do  it  in  the  name 
of  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "O  My 
Father,"  (by  Eliza  R.  Snow). 

President  Clark: 

We  are  deeply  grateful  for  that  beautiful  hymn- — the  hymn  just 
sung — a  hymn  that  I  think  is  more  instinct  with  the  gospel  and  the 
gospel  plan  than  any  other  hymn  we  have. 

ELDER  FRANKLIN  L.  WEST 

Church  Commissioner  of  Education 

Brethren:  I  trust  that  the  same  beautiful  spirit  that  has  charac- 
terized the  addresses  of  those  who  have  spoken  before  may  be  with 
me  in  order  that  I  may  be  able  to  say  something  that  will  be  worthy 
of  your  time  and  attention,  because  I  know  that  this  is  a  very  im- 
portant assignment,  and  I  feel  quite  unworthy  and  quite  incapable 
of  adequately  filling  this  position. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  all  the  blessings  that  have  come  to  me 
as  a  member  of  this  Church.  I  am  thankful  that  my  father  and 
mother  lived  the  gospel  from  their  early  youth.  In  our  home  there 
was  the  spirit  of  love  and  peace.  We  had  blessings  on  the  food;  we 
had  family  prayers.  They  not  only  encouraged  us  to  go  to  church, 
but  they  went  themselves.  I  have  had  the  advantage  of  being 
brought  up  in  all  of  the  auxiliaries  of  the  Church  and  have  been 
active  in  all  of  the  organizations,  practically  all  of  my  life.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  testimony  that  I  have.  It  has  been  a  great  source 
of  comfort,  strength  and  joy  to  me.  I  am  happy  to  be  identified 


1 1 6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  7  Second  Day 

with  this  work  which  is  the  work  of  God,  and  to  be  associated  with 
you  men  in  pushing  forward  this  great  undertaking. 

One  of,  our  seminary  men  came  into  my  office  about  a  month 
ago,  very  quietly.  I  was  startled  and  thrilled  to  see  him  and  almost 
shocked — Brother  Reed  Probst,  formerly  a  seminary  teacher  at  Ban- 
croft, Idaho,  and  later  at  Hyrum,  Utah.  He  had  been  serving  for 
thirty-three  months  as  a  chaplain  over  in  the  Pacific  Ocean,  in  the 
very  heart  of  those  heavy  battles.  At  first,  I  was  shocked  at  the  color 
of  his  skin.  It  gave  him  a  very  peculiar  appearance.  I  asked  about 
his  health  and  he  said,  "I  am  feeling  very  fine.  That  is  an  artificial 
coloring  that  they  give  us  to  protect  us  against  the  heat  of  the  sun." 
We  chatted  about  his  work  and  he  was  very  modest  about  what  he 
had  been  doing.  He  said  that  originally  there  were  some  fifteen 
chaplains  in  their  division,  and  there  were  only  four  or  five  of  them 
left.  Of  the  ten  or  eleven  that  had  gone, — half  of  them  had  either 
been  killed  or  had  died  due  to  sickness  and  disease.  The  other  five 
or  six  had  cracked  up  mentally;  they  couldn't  stand  the  terrific  strain, 
the  emotional  shock  of  the  terrible  things  they  were  going  through. 
He  said:  "I  attribute  the  fact  that  I  am  alive  and  so  well,  to  the  fact 
that  I  have  lived  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  God  has  been  very  good 
and  kind  to  me."  He  had  a  few  months  of  rest  in  this  country  be- 
fore he  would  be  sent  back  into  the  conflict,  to  that  ministering  work 
of  love  that  these  chaplains  are  to  do. 

I  visited  with  him  on  two  occasions, — the  last  time  he  was 
standing  in  President  Widtsoe's  office,  and  I  noticed  a  fine  little  dec- 
oration on  his  uniform,  and  I  asked  him  what  it  was,  and  very  modest- 
ly he  got  his  briefcase  out  and  allowed  me  to  read  about  two  or  three 
pages  of  typewritten  material.  What  he  had  done  had  been  wit- 
nessed and  the  authenticity  certified  to  by  six  people,  and  it  said 
substantially  this,  that  this  man,  under  heavy  enemy  fire,  from  day- 
light until  dark,  bullets  flying  all  about  him,  bombs  exploding,  sold- 
iers being  killed  on  all  sides,  quietly  and  effectively  went  about  giving 
first  aid,  helping  to  bury  some  of  the  dead,  listening  and  praying  for 
those  who  were  passing  away  in  their  last  throes  of  death.  All  day 
long,  absolutely  unconscious  of  all  that  danger  and  hazard  and  gun 
fire  and  noise  and  confusion,  he  went  about  silently  and  quietly,  ad- 
ministering those  loving  and  tender  words  of  kindness,  and  listening 
to  the  last  words  of  these  soldiers  who  were  going  to  the  Great  Be- 
yond. This  happened  not  once,  but  on  a  second  occasion,  in  another 
part  of  the  war,  he  did  that  very  same  thing,  indicating  quiet  bravery 
and  heroism  and  simple  devotion  to  duty. 

I  was  proud  to  get  a  picture  of  four  of  our  seminary  men,  all  chap- 
lains who  met  together  in  Italy,  in  a  similar  undertaking.  And  many 
of  these  boys  were  not  drafted,  they  volunteered,  knowing  the  great 
hazards  of  the  work  they  were  about  to  perform.  You  know,  that 
is  the  very  spirit  of  our  gospel.  Sometimes  we  worry  a  good  deal, 
and  have  cause  for  worry,  because  of  these  great  and  trying  circum- 


ELDER  F.  L.  WEST 


117 


stances  under  which  we  are  all  living, — all  the  difficulties  of  the  work 
before  us.  It  is  a  natural  thing  for  us  to  worry,  but  you  know  if  we 
get  so  busy  and  so  active  with  our  work,  concentrating  our  minds,  as 
Brother  Probst  no  doubt  was  doing, — so  devoted  and  so  attentive 
in  doing  those  loving,  kindly  things  for  those  people,  we  become 
unconscious  of  danger  and  hazard.  So  one  of  the  best  ways  of 
driving  away  our  fear  and  anxiety  is  by  heavy  work  in  a  great  cause. 

We  ought  to  be  happy  for  the  opportunity  we  have  of  serving 
in  God's  great  work.  Our  great  organization,  instituted  by  God  our 
Heavenly  Father  in  these  last  days,  has  to  do  not  only  with  meeting 
in  churches,  being  built  up  in,  our  faith,  stimulated  to  do  our  duty, 
but  this  important  work  is  to  be  carried  on  essentially  into  the  whole 
twenty-four  hours  of  our  work  every  day. 

I  like  to  think  of  our  lives  as  like  a  wagon  wheel.  We  can  di- 
vide our  activities  into  areas,  such  as  the  areas  between  the  spokes. 
In  one  area  we  devote  our  time  to  making  a  living;  another  area  to 
our  home;  another  area  to  our  political  and  civic  life;  another  area 
might  even  be  our  recreational  life.  I  like  to  think  of  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  great  Church  of  God  as  the  heart,  the 
center,  the  hub  of  the  wheel,  and  from  that  central  source  and  hub 
comes  the  strength  and  the  power  and  the  oil  and  the  grease  that 
smooth  out  and  make  us  joyous  and  happy,  and  integrate  the  whole 
life.  Only  so  far,  of  course,  as  we  put  these  teachings  of  Christ  into 
operation  in  our  homes,  into  our  business  and  into  all  of  our  pursuits, 
are  we  doing  our  full  duty  and  are  we  growing.  That  is  why  we  are 
so  anxious  to  have  the  spirit  of  God  with  us  at  all  times.  That  is 
why  we  come  together  so  frequently,  to  sing,  to  commune  and  to 
pray,  and  partake  of  the  sacrament,  in  order  that  we  might  always 
have  those  influences  near  us,  that  the  same  may  bless  us  in  the  work 
that  is  before  us. 

I  hope  you  will  be  patient  with  us,  my  brethren,  in  our  Church 
school  system,  in  our  seminary  work,  because  we  have  some  thirty- 
five  or  forty  of  our  boys,  out  of  one  hundred  and  fifty,  who  are  in 
the  armed  forces.  We  are  obligated  to  them  and  we  must  give  them 
a  job  when  they  come  back,  and  a  good  job,  in  the  places  where  they 
were  before,  or  in  equally  desirable  places.  So  we  are  doing  a  make- 
shift sort  of  a  job.  We  have  hired  certain  people,  local  people, — 
some  of  them  doing  very  well  indeed, — some  not  so  well.  In  some 
places  we  are  not  functioning  at  all,  and  in  some  places  we  may  be 
forced  to  discontinue  for  the  next  year.  But  just  as  soon  as  the  war 
is  over  and  these  boys  come  back,  and  we  get  back  to  normal,  we 
are  going  to  get  for  you,  as  nearly  as  we  can,  young  'men  who  will 
be  ah  inspiration  to  youth,  young  men  of  faith  and  integrity. 

I  see  that  my  time  is  about  gone.  The  gospel  is  a  simple  thing 
in  a  way  —  really  it  is  —  a  matter  of  doing  good  every  day,  be- 
ing patient,  being  kind  and  helpful,  and  being  honest  and  paying 
our  bills  and  doing  our  work  well;, being  courageous  and  all  that  sort 


118 

Saturday,  April  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


of  thing.  It  doesn't  take  any  high  intellect  to  do  that.  As  a  matter 
of  fact,  one  writer  said  that  we  don't  need  so  much  further  under- 
standing and  wisdom  to  learn  about  the  teachings  of  Jesus.  What 
we  need  is  a  little  more  grit  and  courage  and  determination  to  put 
those  principles  into  practice  in  our  daily  lives.  That  is  what  we 
really  need.  I  should  say,  however,  that  although  in  many  of  its 
aspects  it  is  very  simple,  and  most  of  us  don't  do  nearly  as  well  as 
we  know  how  to  do,  yet,  in  our  work  we  are  really  confronted  with 
some  hard  problems. 

Two  .young  men  came  to  my  office  at  one  o'clock  by  appoint- 
ment and  stayed  until  seven-thirty  at  night.  They  are  college  grad- 
uates. They  had  been  on  missions.  They  were  just  ready  to 
throw  their  whole  religion  over,  because  there  was  just  one  point 
in  their  education  that  had  side-tracked  them.  There  was  no  other 
answer  that  would  meet  them  just  on  that  ground.  I  could  preach 
this  and  preach  that  and  they  would  come  right  back  to  that  one 
point.  One  of  them  said  to  me  frankly,  "Now  all  the  other  boys 
have  got  married  and  I  haven't,  because  I  am  not  going  to  marry 
a  girl  unless  she  is  just  as  good  as  one  of  these  Mormon  girls;  and 
when  I  get  her,  if  she  is  a  Mormon  girl,  she  would  want  to  go 
through  the  Temple,  and  I  can't  do  that  unless  I  am  thoroughly 
converted  on  this  one  point  in  question."  Then  we  went  to  arguing 
it.  Now,  I  am  not  for  arguing.  I  like  to  bear  my  testimony,  and  I 
didn't  put  those  questions  in  their  heads,  but  they  got  them  out  of 
their  text  books  in  their  course  of  study.  I  could  do  absolutely  noth- 
ing with  them,  except  to  try  to  face  them  and  meet  them  in  the  very 
place  where  they  were.  Now  they  were  good  boys,  too,  very  good 
boys,  just  as  clean  as  any  could  be,  and  I  certainly  hope  I  helped 
them.  I  tried  hard  enough  and  I  think  I  did. 

I  must  say,  that  over  a  period  of  years  I  have  been  greatly 
blessed  by  our  Father  in  Heaven.  I  don't  know  why  it  was,  but  when 
I  was  just  a  young  boy  I  got  to  wrestling  with  some  of  these  prob- 
lems, and  there  was  a  kind  of  inner  testimony  that  came  to  me  and 
told  me  not  to  be  afraid  of  these  things,  so  I  read  and  studied  in  the 
many  areas  of  science,  philosophy,  psychology  and  geology  and 
so  on,  with  a  good  deal  of  peace  of  mind,  and  now  I  want  to  say  to 
you  that  I  am  not  bragging  that  I  have  the  answer  on  all  of  these 
difficult  questions.  Any  first-rate  scholar  or  scientist  knows  that 
there  are  tremendous  problems  to  which  nobody  knows  the  answer. 
Of  course,  on  many  occasions,  I  give  my  best  answer.  When  they 
ask  me  a  hard  question  about  which  I  don't  know,  I  say  I  don't 
know;  but,  in  many  cases  there  are  first-rate  answers,  my  brethren, 
without  compromising  one  single  fundamental  principle  of  the 
gospel.  There  are  answers  that  satisfy  these  young  men  and  will 
hold  them  in  the  faith. 

Now,  God  bless  you  my  brothers  and  sisters.  May  we  all  work 
together  with  these  young  people  and  increase  their  faith.  All  over 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


119 


the  whole  Church  system,  these  young  seniors  in  the  high  school, 
just  ready  to  go  to  war — I  tell  you  they  are  upset.  They  are  nervous, 
they  are  worried,  they  don't  know  what  it  is  all  about,  and  they  feel 
they  are  going  into  the  army  soon.  It  is  challenging  the  best  efforts  of 
our  teachers  to  even  keep  them  quiet  and  orderly  while  they  teach  the 
gospel  to  them.  How  thrilled  we  all  are  to  see  the  magnificent  way 
they  are  conducting  themselves  in  the  war.  Their  valor,  their  courage, 
their  heroism,  their  faith,  and  their  devotion  and  the  purity  of  their 
lives.  We  have  reason  to  be  proud  of  them.  We  have  some  wonder- 
ful teachers  in  our  Church  school  system.  They  are  men  of  faith. 
They  are  working  hard  and  they  are  loyal.  Every  day  they  find  offers 
of  larger  salaries  in  more  remunerative  positions  and,  yet  they  are 
sticking  by  us.  They  love  this  work  and  these  young  people  so  much. 
We  are  anxious  to  be  able  to  build  up  faith  in  .the  fundamental  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel,  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  This  is  the  work  of 
the  Lord,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  God  lives.  He  is  our  Father. 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Messiah.  They  ap- 
peared, both  of  them,  unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  that  first  vis- 
ion. I  love  that.  I  am  absolutely  convinced  that  it  happened  just 
exactly  as  was  recorded  by  the  Prophet  Joseph.  The  men  who  have 
stood  at  the  head  of  this  Church  from  the  beginning  were  and  are 
inspired — great  prophets,  and  I  am  glad  to  work  with  them.  I  am 
happy  to  be  identified  with  you  in  this  work  and  I  only  hope  that 
I  shall  be  able  to  do  it  reasonably  well,  in  order  that  we  may,  as 
leaders  of  these  young  people,  teach  them  to  be  sweet  and  clean, 
so  they  will  be  loyal  to  their  Church  and  that  they  will  be  faithful 
and  live  the  lives  they  should  live.  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  help  us  that  we  may  set  the  example  and  do  our  full 
duty  by  the  youth,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

As  I  listened  to  that  inspiring  rendition  of  "O  My  Father,"  I 
thought,  music  is  truly  the  universal  language,  and  when  it  is  excel- 
lently expressed  how  deeply  it  moves  our  souls! 

Though  the  exigencies  of  war  have  limited  the  attendance,  this 
is  a  great  conference.  It  is  great  because  we  have  had  from  the  first 
meeting,  throughout  all  the  sessions,  an  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord.  You  have  all  felt  it.  The  brethren  who  have  spoken  have 
been  blessed  and  inspired  by  it.  Now,  you  leaders  in  the  priesthood 
have  a  double  mission  and  will  receive  a  double  blessing,  as  you  car- 
ry the  spirit  of  this  conference  out  to  your  wards  and  stakes. 

What  I  am  going  to  say  tonight  I  wish  could  be  said  to  the 
people  out  in  the  stakes,  because  two-thirds  of  what  I  have  in  mind 


/ 


120 

Saturday,  April  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


will  apply  to  them;  one-third  possibly  to  you  brethren.  So  I  am  going 
to  ask  that  you  give  it  to  the  young  people  especially  in  your  wards. 

There  are  three  very  remarkable  parables  recorded  by  Luke  in 
the  fifteenth  chapter.  They  are  called  the  parables  of  the  lost  and 
found.  Usually  whenever  they  are  referred  to,  the  principles  of  re- 
pentance and  forgiveness  are  emphasized,  and  the  rejoicing  over  the 
lost,  because  the  lost  has  been  found.  To  that  phase  of  the  parable 
I  am  not  going  to  refer  tonight,  except  to  say  that  I  think  that  part  of 
these  parables  is  sometimes  misinterpreted,  or  at  least  misapplied. 
There  is  another  phase  of  these  parables  which  appeals  to>  me  even 
more  than  the  rejoicing,  and  that  is  what  I  want  to  speak  about  tonight. 
I  desire  to'  refer  to  the  conditions  that  contributed  to  their  being  lost. 

The  Meaning  of  the  Parable  of  the  Lost  Sheep 

The  scene  is  a  gathering  of  publicans  and  sinners  who  have  as- 
sembled, it  seems,  in  quite  large  numbers  to  hear  the  message  of  Jesus. 
Standing  out  are  pictured  Pharisees  and  Sadducees  who  are  sneering 
at  the  Man  of  Nazareth  who  is  speaking  to  these  publicans  and  sin- 
ners, and  the  Pharisees  and  Sadducees  are  judging  him,  I  suppose, 
by  the  company  he  is  keeping.  By  the  Sadducees,  the  publicans  and 
sinners  are  looked  upon  as  lost.  To  the  multitude  Jesus  speaks  three 
parables.   The  first,  the  parable  of  the  lost  sheep: 

What  man  of  you,  having  an  hundred  sheep,  if  he  lose  one  of  them,  t 
doth  not  leave  the  ninety  and  nine  in  the  wilderness,  and  go  after  that 
which  is  lost,  until  he  find  it? 

I  ask  you  tonight,  how  did  that  sheep  get  lost?  He  was  not  re- 
bellious. If  you  follow  the  comparison,  the  lamb  was  seeking  its  live- 
lihood in  a  perfectly  legitimate  manner,  but  either  stupidly,  perhaps 
unconsciously,  it  followed  the  enticement  of  the  field,  the  prospect  of 
better  grass  until  it  got  out  beyond  the  fold  and  was  lost. 

So  we  have  those  in  the  Church,  young  men  and  young  women, 
who  wander  away  from  the  fold  in  perfectly  legitimate  ways.  They 
are  seeking  success,  success  in  business,  success  in  their  professions, 
and  before  long  they  become  disinterested  in  Church  and  finally  dis- 
connected from  the  fold;  they  have  lost  track  of  what  true  success  is, 
perhaps  stupidly,  perhaps  unconsciously,  in  some  cases,  perhaps  will- 
ingly.   They  are  blind  to  what  constitutes  true  success. 

True  Success 

Jesus  gave  an  apt  definition  of  success,  I  think,  when  he  spoke  of 
Mary  Magdalene,  saying,  "She  hath  done  what  she  could."  True 
success  is  reaching  the  level  of  our  best  in  our  association  with  our 
fellowmen.    Many  of  these  wandering  away  as  the  lost  sheep  are 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


121 


seeking  success  for  selfish  purposes,  not  for  the  benefit  of  their  fellow- 
men.    See  the  difference? 

Over  twenty  years  ago  we  had  a  truly  excellent  group  of  mission- 
aries in  the  European  Mission.  I  have  been  interested  in  watching 
them  during  the  intervening  years.  One  of  these  was  a  brilliant  mis- 
sionary, and  he  was  faithful.  He  came  home,  completed  his  educa- 
tion, and  succeeded  in  obtaining  a  high  position  in  his  profession.  For 
twenty  years  now  he  has  been  following  that  profession.  He  is  suc- 
cessful in  it,  but  he  has  gone  so  far,  and  has  so  little  contact  with  the 
flock,  the  body  of  the  Church,  that  he  hesitates  about  affiliating  him- 
self with  it. 

There  was  another  missionary  who  came  home  about  the  same 
time  who  also  started  out  to  succeed,  and  he  has  succeeded.  He  is  a 
prominent  business  man  in  this  city,  highly  successful;  but  he  has 
always  kept  in  touch  with  the  Church.  I  think  he  is  a  success.  He 
has  succeeded  in  his  business,  but  he  has  used  his  means  to  help  the 
Church  of  Christ;  he  is  in  the  fold.  There  is  no  need  of  striking  out 
in  selfishness,  thinking  you  have  to  leave  the  Church  in  order  to  suc- 
ceed.  In  the  Church  we  can  ask  God's  help  to  guide  us. 

You  remember  the  story  of  the  business  man  who  went  into  his 
private  office  in  the  morning  and  closed  the  door,  and  one  of  his  agents 
came  in  and  said  to  the  secretary:  "I  want  to  see  the  manager." 

The  secretary  answered:    "He  is  in  conference." 

"I  have  come  a  long  way  to  see  him,  I  want  to  see  him  this  morn- 
ing, I  cannot  wait." 

"Well,  he  is  in  conference." 

The  man  arrogantly  pushed  by  the  secretary,  opened  the  door 
of  the  manager's  office  and  then  quietly  closed  it,  and  apologetically 
said:    "I  did  not  know  that  he  is  that  kind  of  man." 

Said  the  secretary:    "I  told  you  that  he  was  in  conference." 

The  man  was  on  his  knees  asking  God's  aid  that  day  in  his  busi- 
ness. 

I  ask  our  young  men  at  home  who  are  striking  out  in  legitimate 
enterprises  to  remember  that  true  success  is  not  just  in  achieving  that 
one  aim,  but  in  keeping  in  touch  with  the  organization  in  which  they 
can  serve  their  fellow  men,  in  which  they  can  live  to  the  level  of  their 
best. 

An  Application  of  the  Parable  of  the  Lost  Coin 

The  second  parable  is  the  parable  of  the  lost  coin.  A  woman 
lost  it  and,  looking  in  vain  to  find  it,  called  in  the  neighbors  to  help 
her  search  for  it. 

In  this  case  the  thing, lost  was  not  in  itself  responsible.  The  one 
who  had  been  trusted  with  that  coin  had,  through  carelessness  or  ne- 
glect, mislaid  it  or  dropped  it.  There  is  a  difference,  and  this  is  the 
one-third,  which  I  think  applies  to  us  tonight.  Our  charge  is  not  only 
coins,  but  living  souls  of  children,  youth,  and  adults.    They  are  our 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  7  Second  Day 

charges.  Some  of  them  may  be  wandering  tonight  because  of  the 
neglect  of  the  ward  teachers  whose  duty  it  is  to — 

.  .  .  watch  over  the  Church  always,  and  be  with  and  strengthen  them; 
And  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity  in  the  Church,  neither  hardness  with  each 
other,  neither  lying,  backbiting,  nor  evil  speaking  .  .  .  (Doc.  and  Cov. 
20:53-54.) 

and  to  see  that  each  one  does  his  duty.  Someone  may  be  wandering 
because  of  the  careless  remark  of  a  girl  of  her  age  in  Mutual,  ( and  I 
have  in  mind  a  case),  and  the  president  of  the  Mutual  lets  her  go, 
fails  to  follow  her  next  Tuesday  night  and  invite  her  to  come.  Another 
may  be  lost  because  of  the  inactivity  of  the  Sunday  School  teacher, 
or  the  indifference  of  the  Sunday  School  teacher  who  is  satisfied  with 
the  fifteen  people  there  that  morning,  instead  of  thinking  of  the  fifteen 
who  are  wandering  because  of  neglect.  I  will  just  summarize  this 
thought  by  calling  your  attention  to  a  little  rhyme  that  is  in  one  of 
the  deacon's  manuals.  The  poetry  is  not  excellent,  but  the  thought 
is  applicable: 

He  stood  at  the  crossroads  all  alone, 
The  sunlight  in  his  face; 
He  had  no  thought  for  the  world  unknown, 
He  was  set  for  a  manly  race. 

But  the  road  stretched  east,  and  the  road  stretched  west, 

And  the  lad  knew  not  which  road  was  best; 

So  he  chose  the  road  that  led  him  down, 

And  he  lost  the  race  and  the  victor's  crown. 

He  was  caught  at  last  in  an  angry  snare; 

Because  no  one  stood  at  the  crossroads  there, 

To  show  him  the  better  way. 

( That  is  the  lost  coin ) . 

Another  day,  at  the  selfsame  place, 

A  lad  with  high  hopes  stood; 

He,  too,  was  set  for  a  manly  race — 

And  was  seeking  the  things  that  were  good; 

But  one  was  there  who  the  roads  did  know. 

And  that  one  showed  him  which  way  to  go. 

So  he  turned  from  the  road  that  led  him  down, 

And  he  won  the  race  and  the  victor's  crown. 

He  walks  today  the  highway  fair, 

Because  one  stood  at  the  crossroads  there 

To  show  him  the  better  road. 

Our  responsibility  is  to  keep  the  trust  that  God  has  reposed  in 
us,  calling  us  to  guard  these  precious  souls. 

Parable  of  the  Prodigal  Son  Applied  to  Youth  of  Today 

The  third  parable  is  the  prodigal  son,  the  "younger  son,"  we  are 
told,  so  he  was  immature  in  his  judgment.  He  was  irking  under  the 
restraint,  and  he  rather  resented  the  father's  careful  guiding  eye.  He 
evidently  longed  for  so-called  freedom,  wanted,  so  to  speak,  to  try 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


123 


his  wings.  So  he  said,  "Father,  give  me  my  portion,  and  I  will  go." 
The  father  gave  him  his  portion,  and  out  the  lad  went. 

Here  is  a  case  of  volition,  here  is  choice,  deliberate  choice.  Here 
is,  in  a  way,  rebellion  against  authority.  And  what  did  he  do?  He 
spent  his  means  in  riotous  living,  he  wasted  his  portion  with  harlots. 
That  is  the  way  they  are  lost. 

Youth  who  start  out  to  indulge  their  appetites  and  passions  are 
on  the  downward  road  to  apostasy  as  sure  as  the  sun  rises  in  the  east. 
I  do  not  confine  it  to  youth;  any  man  or  woman  who  starts  out  on  that 
road  of  intemperance,  of  dissolute  living  will  separate  himself  or  her- 
self from  the  fold  as  inevitably  as  darkness  follows  the  day. 

"My  spirit  shall  not  always  strive  with  man"  (Gen.  6:3),  says 
the  Lord.  "My  spirit  will  not  dwell  in  an  unclean  tabernacle."  He 
who  tries  to  live  a  double  life,  who  does  live  a  double  life  in  violation 
of  his  covenants,  to  quote  one  author,  "is  either  a  knave  or  a  fool." 
Often  he  is  both,  because  he  himself  is  using  his  free  agency  to  gratify 
his  passions,  to  waste  his  substance  in  riotous  living,  to  violate  the 
covenants  that  he  has  made  in  the  house  of  God. 

In  such  cases  there  is  little  we  can  do  but  warn  and  plead  until 
the  recreant,  as  the  prodigal  son,  at  last  "comes  to  himself."  I  am 
simply  trying  to  picture  how  these  three  different  parables  can  be  ap- 
plied to  our  own  groups. 

The  Way  to  True  Happiness 

I  wish  I  could  say  to  every  young  man  in  this  Church,  that  if  you 
would  be  successful,  if  you  would  be  happy,  if  you  would  conserve 
your  strength,  intellectual,  physical,  and  spiritual,  you  will  resist 
temptation  to  indulge  your  appetites  and  your  passions.  That  is  gos- 
pel truth — indulgence  does  not  strengthen  youth  or  manhood;  re- 
straint and  self-control  do.  That  is  psychologically  sound,  because, 
instead  of  expending  your  energy  as  animals,  self-control  gives  you 
more  power  and  energy  to  expend  intellectually  and  spiritually.  Chas- 
tity strengthens  manhood.  It  is  the  source  of  virility,  not  impotence; 
it  is  the  crown  of  beautiful  womanhood;  and  it  is  the  source  of  peace 
and  happiness  in  the  home  when  you  start  to  build  it;  it  is  the  source 
of  strength  and  perpetuity  of  the  race. 

He  is  unwise  who  starts  out  as  the  prodigal  son  to  waste  in  riot- 
ous living  the  substance  which  God  has  given  him  in  physical  man- 
hood and  intellectuality.  Much  better  to  follow  the  example  of  old 
Adam  as  mentioned  by  Shakespeare  in  As  You  Like  It.  I  wish  every 
student  would  get  the  implied  lessons,  and  that  every  teacher  of  Eng- 
lish literature  would  pause  before  his  class  of  young  men  and  women 
and  let  them  absorb  the  picture  that  that  old  man  gives  when  Orlando 
refuses  to  let  the  servant  go  with  him  out  into  the  forest.  The  old 
servant,  who  reared  Orlando  and  nursed  him,  watched  him,  and 
trained  him  in  his  youth,  said: 

Let  me  go  with  you, 

Though  I  look  old,  yet  I  am  strong  and  lusty; 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  7 


Second  Day 


For  in  my  youth  I  never  did  apply 
Hot  and  rebellious  liquors  in  my  blood, 
Nor  did  not  with  unbashful  forehead  woo 
The  meansi  of  weakness  and  debility; 
Therefore  my  age  is  as  a  lusty  winter,  * 
Frosty,  but  kindly. 

God  help  us  that  we  as  leaders  may  try  to  guide  those  who  are 
wandering  away  from  the  flock.  God  give  us  power  to  inspire  them 
with  the  true  ideal  of  success  as  contained  in  another  saying  of  our 
Savior,  "Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness,  and 
all  these  things  will  be  added,"  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  sang,  "Day  of  Sadness," 
(by  Mozart)- 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  Brethren :  I  see  some  of  you  looking  at  the  clock  and  I  sup- 
pose it  is  near  train  time,  so  I  will  detain  you  but  a  moment. 

I  would  like  to  refer  to  a  point  that  I  tried  to  make  yesterday  re- 
garding the  mischievous  gossip  that  is  going  about  by  those  who  are 
finding  fault,  by  those  who  think  that  their  idea  about  the  government 
of  the  Church  is  superior  to  anybody  else's.  I  suppose  there  is  not  a 
section  hand  in  the  United  States  who  could  not  run  the  railroad  bet- 
ter than  the  president  and  the  board  of  directors. 

I  just  want  to  read,  along  the  line  as  to  where  the  responsibility 
rests,  and  of  the  law  and  of  the  order  of  the  Church,  a  few  sentences 
from  a  letter  written  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  to  the  brother  of  Jared 
Carter: 

"Respecting  the  vision  you  speak  of  we  do  not  consider  ourselves 
bound  to  receive  any  revelation  from  any  one  man  or  woman  without 
his  being  legally  constituted  and  ordained  to  that  authority,  and  giv- 
ing sufficient  proof  of  it. 

"I  will  inform  you  that  it  is  contrary  to  the  economy  of  God  for 
any  member  of  the  Church,  or  any  one,  to  receive  instruction  for  those 
in  authority,  higher  than  themselves;  therefore  you  will  see  the  im- 
propriety of  giving  heed  to  them;  but  if  any  person  have  a  vision  or 
a  visitation  from  a  heavenly  messenger,  it  must  be  for  his  own  benefit 
and  instruction;  for  the  fundamental  principles,  government,  and  doc- 
trine of  the  Church  are  vested  in  the  keys  of  the  kingdom." 

It  is  unfortunate  that  when  we  have  to  speak  about  matters  of 
this  sort  we  never  have  before  us  those  who  need  the  instruction.  We 
always  have  to  give  it  to  those  who>  do  not  need  it;  but  I  do  hope, 
brethren,  that  you  can  help  to  stem  this  mischievous  gossip;  get  the 
people  to  see  and  to  understand  that  this  is  God's  Church,  that  the 
president  of  the  Church  is  at  the  head,  that  there  is  an  order  in  the 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  1 25 


Church,  and  that  so  long  as  we  follow  that  order  God  will  bless  us, 
and  it  is  not  for  those  of  an  inferior  authority  to  undertake  to  tell  the 
president  of  the  Church  what  he  should  do,  or  what  he  should  not  do. 
And  if  we  wish  to  keep  the  spirit  of  the  Lord,  if  we  wish  always  to 
enjoy  his  inspiration  and  his  revelations  to  us  for  our  needs  and  for 
our  own  benefit,  it  is  well  we  should  remember  always  to  keep  in 
harmony  with  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  and  to  have  faith  in  him  and  to 
have  faith  in  the  gospel,  and  to  have  faith  in  the  order  which  the 
Lord  has  set  up. 

President  Clark: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  will  now  sing:  "Guide  Me 
To  Thee,"  by  Huish,  after  which  we  will  ask  President  George  Syl- 
vester Heiner  of  the  Morgan  Stake  to  dismiss  us. 

We  will  meet  in  the  Tabernacle  tomorrow  morning,  and  I  again 
ask  that  you  be  good  enough  to  be  there  not  later  than  a  quarter  to 
10:00,  and  I  repeat:  We  seem  to  come  increasingly  late  to  these 
meetings,  and  it  would  be  helpful,  brethren,  if  you  could  get  here  on 
time. 

Brother  Cornwall,  we  do  want  to  thank  you  and  the  brethren 
for  coming  here  and  singing  so  beautifully  for  us  tonight.  Thank  you, 
brethren,  very  much! 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus  sang,  "Guide  Me  to  Thee." 

Elder  George  Sylvester  Heiner,  President  of  the  Morgan  Stake, 
offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  untii  Sunday  morning,  April  8,  at  10 
o'clock. 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  in  the  great  Tabernacle  Sunday  morn- 
ing, April  8,  at  10  o'clock. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  in  attendance  at  this  meeting  and 
participated  in  the  services.  . 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Brethren,  it  is  necessary  that  we  begin  now,  before  the  Taber- 
nacle Broadcast  begins,  in  order  that  we  may  be  prepared  therefor. 

This  morning's  session  will  be  divided  into  four  parts: 

First — The  Tabernacle  Choir  Broadcast  from  10  to  10:30  a.m. 

Second — A  half  hour  period  of  the  regular  Conference  session, 
10:30  to  11  a.m. 

Third — A  half  hour  period  of  the  Columbia  Church  of  the  Air 
program. 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  8  Third  Day 


Fourth — a  closing  half  hour  period  of  the  regular  Conference 
session. 

We  shall  open  this  Conference  now  with  prayer.  The  interven- 
ing time  from  then  to  10:00  will  be  taken  up  with  some  organ  music, 
subject  to  the  necessities  of  getting  ready  for  the  Choir  Broadcast. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Jesse  M  .Walker 
of  the  Alpine  Stake. 


President  Jesse  M.  Walker  of  the  Alpine  Stake  offered  the  open- 
ing prayer. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10.00  to  10:30  a.m.,  the  regular  Sunday 
morning  nationwide  broadcast  of  choral  and  organ  music  and 
brief  spoken  comment  was  presented  as  part  of  the  General  Confer- 
ence proceedings.  This  program  was  presented  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ,  and  broadcast  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities 
of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  coast-to-coast  network, 
throughout  the  United  States.  The  broadcast,  written  and  announced 
by  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans,  originated  with  radio  station  KSL,  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  was  presented  as  follows: 

(Organ  began  playing  "As  the  Dew,"  and  then  the  organ  and 
choir  broke  into  "Gently  Raise,"  singing  words  to  end  of  second  line, 
from  which  point  choir  hummed  for  announcer's  background  to  end 
of  verse ) . 

Announcer:  Again,  from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West,  we  beckon 
your  thoughts  unto  the  hills,  as  another  week  of  life  begins  for  all  men. 

At  this  hour  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System  and  its  affiliated 
stations  bring  you  the  821st  performance  of  this  traditional  broadcast 
from  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducts  the  singing  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the  Tabernacle  organ.  The  spok- 
en word  by  Richard  Evans. 

We  begin  with  a  sacred  song  from  Verdi's  "Othello,"  with 
words  by  Adalbert  Huguelet:  "Lord,  hear  our  prayer.  .  .  .  Lord  God 
in  heaven  above  ....  give  us  love,  and  give  us  truth,  and  life  etern- 
al. .  .  ." 

(Choir  sang  "Lord,  Hear  Our  Prayer" — Verdi). 

Announcer:  We  continue  this  hour  from  Temple  Square  with' 
the  music  of  the  Tabernacle  organ  as  Alexander  Schreiner  presents 
the"  "Toccata  in  B  Minor"  by  Gigout. 

(Organ  presented  "Toccata  in  B  Minor" — Gigout). 

Announcer:  Appropriate  to  all  times,  but  urgently  so  to  ours,  is 
the  message  of  the  sacred  song  to  follow.  Perhaps  never  did  so  many 
in  their  extremity  need  help,  and  never  perhaps  was  it  so  clear  what 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  127 


the  Source  of  that  help  must  be.  The  music  is  thaf  of  Mendelssohn, 
with  the  women's  voices  of  the  Tabernacle  choir,  and  words  from  the 
Psalms:  "Lift  thine  eyes,  O  lift  thine  eyes  unto  the  hills,  whence  Com- 
eth help.  Thy  help  cometh  from  the  Lord,  the  Maker  of  Heaven  and 
earth.  He  will  not  suffer  thy  foot  to  be  moved:  he  that  keepeth  thee 
will  not  slumber."  (Adapted  from  Psalm  121 : 1,  3 ) 

(Women  sang  "Lift  Thine  Eyes" — Mendelssohn). 

Announcer:  In  childhood  we  are  excused  for  many  mistakes  on 
grounds  of  ignorance.  But  long  after  we  cease  to  be  children  there 
are  times  when  we  would  like  to  claim  the  same  immunity  which  brings 
before  us  the  time-worn  question  as  to  how  long  and  to  what  extent 
ignorance  is  excusable.  The  question  would  be  easier  to  answer  if.  all 
ignorance  were  of  the  same  kind — but  this  it  is  not.  Sometimes  ig- 
norance is  honest  and  unavoidable.  But  there  is  also  the  ignorance 
of  which  Peter  wrote,  ".  .  .  .  they  willingly  are  ignorant  .  .  .  ."  (II 
Peter  3:5) — the  wilful  ignorance  that  prefers  to  believe  what  it  finds 
convenient  to  believe.  There  are  also  varieties  and  degrees  of  edu- 
cated ignorance,  whereby  knowing  full  well  the  consequences,  we  dis- 
regard many  laws — economic  laws,  moral  laws,  the  laws  of  health, 
and  others  for  which  we  later  pay  and  from  which  much  learning  does 
not  save  us.  There  should  also  be  added  to  the  list  a  type  of  malicious 
ignorance — the  ignorance  that  prefers  to  believe  sensational  rumor 
rather  than  sober  fact — the  ignorance  that  chooses  to  credit  the  worst 
about  other  people  even  when  the  worst  isn't  true.  Some  ignorance 
is  genuinely  naive,  but  there  is  also  a  "smart"  and  sophisticated  ig- 
norance— the  ignorance  that  pretends  to  have  a  new  answer  for  all 
the  old  questions — the  ignorance  that  cynically  brushes  aside  the  an- 
swers which  God  and  time  and  experience  have  given.  But  there  are 
some  things  in  life  for  which  there  are  no  new  answers.  There  is  yet 
another  kind  of  ignorance  that  should  not  go>  unmentioned — the  ig- 
norance of  laziness  and  indifference — the  ignorance  of  him  who  is 
self-satisfied;  the  ignorance  of  him  who  ignores  the  wisdom  of  the 
past,  or  who  can't  be  bothered  to  search  the  scriptures,  or  who  is  indif- 
ferent to  the  advancing  knowledge  of  his  own  generation — and  yet 
who  feels  qualified  to  criticize  what  he  doesn't  know;  the  ignorance 
of  him  who  doesn't  want  his  life  to  be  disturbed  by  greater  light,  more 
truth,  new  discovery;  who  wants  to  believe  only  what  he  wants  to  be- 
lieve, because  it' requires  an  uncomfortable  adjustment  to  believe  any- 
thing else,  even  if  it  happens  to  be  true.  Again,  how  long  shall  ignor- 
ance be  justified?  The  question  is  perhaps  beyond  answer",  but  this 
much  can  be  said:  that  even  though  we  may  not  be  condemned  in  hon- 
est ignorance,  yet  "it  is  impossible  for  a  man  to  be  'saved'  in  ignor- 
ance." (Doctrine  and  Covenants  131:6),  because  the  progress  of 
mankind,  temporally  or  eternally,  implies  a  condition  of  enlighten- 
ment— and  not  of  darkness.  And  while  we  may  not  be  accountable 
for  what  we  do  not  know  and  cannot  know,  we  may  surely  expect  to 
be  accountable  for  what  we  readily  could  have  known  but  wilfully  dis- 
regarded, or  were  too  lazy  or  too  indifferent  to  discover. 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  S  Third  Day 

(Selection  by  the  Choir,  "Only  the  Sad  of  Heart" — Tschaiko- 
wsky ) . 

Announcer:  We  close  now  from  Temple  Square  singing  the 
"Miles  Lane"  tune  as  arranged  by  R.  Vaughn  Williams — with  its 
moving  testimony  and  conviction  of  Jesus  the  Christ,  of  man  and  his 
destiny,  of  truth  and  its  triumph: — "All  hail  the  power  of  Jesus'  name; 
let  angels  prostrate  fall;  bring  forth  the  royal  diadem  to  crown  him, 
Lord  of  all  . .  .  now  hail  the  strength  of  Israel's  might,  and  crown  him, 
Lord  of  all.  Crown  him,  ye  morning  stars  of  light,  ye  Martyrs  of  your 
God  ....  Ye  seed  of  Israel's  chosen  race,  ye  ransomed  of  the  fall .... 
let  every  tribe  and  every  tongue  to  him  their  hearts  enthrall;  lift  high 
the  universal  song  and  crown  him,  Lord  of  all." 

(Choir  sang  "All  Hail  the  Power  of  Jesus'  Name"). 

Announcer:  This  Sabbath  Hour  from  the  Crossroads  of  the 
West  is  ended.  Until  we  beckon  your  thoughts  again  unto  the  hills, 
may  peace  be  with  you — this  day — and  always. 

This  concludes  another  performance  in  the  16th  year  of  this  tra- 
ditional broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square, 
presented  by  the  Columbia  network  and  its  affiliated  stations,  origi- 
nating with  Radio  Station  KSL,  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

When  another  seven  days  have  come  and  gone,  those  voices 
which  now  fade  within  these  walls,  will  return  again,  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word,  over  your  Columbia  station. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the  singing  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  Tabernacle  organ.  The  spok- 
en word  by  Richard  Evans. 

President  Clark: 

The  National  Broadcast  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  to  which  you 
have  just  listened,  has  been  the  opening  devotional  music  and  com- 
ment of  this,  the  sixth  session  of  the  1 1 5th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  opening  prayer 
was  offered  before  the  beginning  of  the  broadcast  by  President  Jesse 
M.  Walker  of  the  Alpine  Stake. 

The  'regular  session  of  this  Conference  will  now  continue  for  one 
half  hour.  Then  the  Columbia  Church  of  the  Air  service  will  be  given 
as  a  part  of  this  session  of  the  Conference.  President  George  Albert 
Smith  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve-will  be  the  speaker  on  the  Church 
of  the  Air.  At  the  conclusion  of  that  service,  the  regular  session  of 
this  Conference  will  resume  for  the  balance  of  the  morning  service, 
with  President  David  O.  McKay  as  the  concluding  speaker. 

Elder  George  F.  Richards  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now 
address  us. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  1 29 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  o/  the  Twelve  Apostles 

'<' 

If  my  remarks  this  morning  shall  be  addressed,  principally,  to 
members  of  the  Church,  others  listening  in,  or  who  may  afterwards 
read  what  I  shall  say,  may  perhaps  learn  something  of  the  require- 
ments, covenants,  and  obligations  of  those  who  join  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  which  all  men  and  women  must  do, 
if  they  would  be  saved  with  an  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal  priesthood,  an  holy  nation, 
a  peculiar  people;  that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises  of  him  who  hath 
called  you  out  of  darkness  into  his  marvellous  light:  Which  in  time  past 
were  not  a  people,  but  are  now  the  people  of  God:  ...  (I  Peter  2:9,  10.) 

Covenants  Entered  Into  By  Church  Members 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  the  people  of  God,  a  chosen  people, 
a  royal  priesthood,  a  covenant  people,  and  a  covenant-making  people. 

The  greatest  and  most  important  blessings  our  Heavenly  Father 
has  for  his  faithful  sons  and  daughters  are  received  by  covenant.  One 
of  the  greatest  blessings  he  has  to  bestow  is  membership  in  his  Church 
and  kingdom.   This  is  received  by  solemn  covenant. 

When  I  was  baptized,  and  confirmed  a  member  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  I  was  required  to  raise  my  right 
arm  to  the  square,  and  covenant  before  God,  angels,  and  witnesses 
present,  that  I  would  henceforth  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  as 
fast  as  they  should  be  made  known  unto  me.  This  represents  the  na- 
ture of  the  covenant  entered  into,  by  every  person  who  is  baptized 
and  confirmed  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  It  is  frequently  spoken  of  as  the  covenant  made  in  the  waters 
of  baptism.  The  nature  of  this  covenant  should  be  explained  to  every 
applicant  for  baptism,  and  he  should  manifest  a  willing  acceptance, 
before  being  baptized. 

Every  man  who  has  received  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  has 
received  the  oath  and  covenant  belonging  to  the  priesthood,  that  he 
will  magnify  the  same;  to  do  which,  he  must  live  a  righteous  life,  and 
answer  every  call  of  authority  that  may  come  to  him  in  the  Church, 
keeping  all  other  covenants  he  has  entered  into,  or  may  do  in  the  fu- 
ture. The  Lord  on  his  part  covenants  to  give  him  all  that  he  the  Lord 
hath. 

But  whoso  breaketh  this  covenant  after  he  hath  received  it,  and 
altogether  turneth  therefrom,  shall  not  have  forgiveness  of  sins  in  this 
world  nor  in  the  world  to  come.    (Doc.  and  Cov.  84:41.) 

The  blessings  of  the  temple  are  of  inestimable  value.  The  goal 
of  our  existence,  that  of  eternal  life  and  exaltation,  cannot  be  attained 
without  them,  but  to  receive  these  blessings,  we  must  enter  into  sol- 
emn covenants  of  faithfulness. 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  S  '  Third  Day 


There  is  a  Jaw,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of 
this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — And  when  we  obtain 
any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon  which  it  is 
predicated.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  130:20,  21.) 

We  who  have  no  other  intent  than  to  be  faithful  in  all  things  do 
not  hesitate  making  covenants  to  that  end.  Every  covenant  we  enter 
into  with  the  Lord,  is  for  our  own  good  and  blessing.  If  there  are  any 
among  us  who  are  weak  and  hesitate,  being  fearful  lest  they  might 
not  be  able  to  keep  the  required  covenants  of  the  gospel,  they  should 
lean  more  heavily  upon  the  assistance  the  Lord  has  promised  to  all 
such,  when  he  said. 

Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labour  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give 
you  rest.  Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me;  for  I  am  meek  and 
lowly  in  heart;  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls.  For  my  yoke  is 
easy,  and  my  burden  is  light.    (Matt.  11:28-30.) 

Considering,  the  Consequences  of  Our  Actions 

I  would  have  the  Saints,  myself  included,  avoid  as  far  as  possible 
the  disappointments  and  sorrow  here  in  life,  and  hereafter,  resulting 
from  sin  and  neglect.  Many  of  our  sorrows,  and  the  greatest  sorrows 
we  experience  in  life,  are  of  our  own  making,  and  could  have  been 
averted. 

Remorse  of  conscience,  resulting  from  sin,  is  among  the  greatest 
of  sorrows,  and  the  hardest  to  heal.  No  person  can  afford  to  commit 
sin.  There  is  no  satisfaction  derived  from  so  doing  that  will  justify 
the  sorrow  and  remorse  that  result  therefrom.  Many  of  our  sorrows 
in  life  are  the  result  of  thoughtfulness  on  our  part.  We  do  things  that 
are  unwise,  and  hurtful  to  ourselves  and  to  others,  not  having  first 
thought  the  thing  through,  and  considered  the  inevitable  consequenc- 
es. This  thought  is  emphasized  in  the  story  entitled,  "Clarence  and 
Mother": 

A  woman,  left  a  widow  with  one  child,  was  obliged  to  take  in  wash- 
ing for  a  living.  One  morning  Mother  called  Clarence  earlier  than  usual, 
saying:  "We  have  a  larger  wash  than  usual,  and  will  need  quite  a  lot  of 
wood."  Clarence  made  no  complaint,  but  dressed  himself,  and  going  to 
the  wood  yard  cut  up  and  carried  in  a  wood  box  full  of  wood.  Then  he 
wrote  a  little  note  to  his  mother  and  put  it  under  her  plate  at  the  table. 
When  Mother  turned  her  plate  over,  she  found  Clarence's  note  which  read 
like  this:  "Mother  owes  Clarence  50c  for  cutting  up  a  wood  box  full  of 
wood."  The  mother's  countenance  fell  for  a  moment,  then  she  went  where 
she  kept  her  meager  earnings,  and  found  50c  and  brought  it  and  gave  it  to 
Clarence.  There  was  not  much  said  at  the  table,  and  the  mother  ate  but 
little  breakfast. 

The  next  morning  when  they  turned  their  plates  over  at  the  table  there 
was  a  note  from  Mother  to  Clarence  which  read  as  follows:  '"Clarence, 
debtor  to  Mother,  for  going  down  into  the  valley  of  the  shadow  of  death, 
to  give  him  life,  nothing;  for  board  and  lodgings  nine  years,  nothing;  for 
clothing,  and  washing  and  mending  his  clothes,  nine  years,  nothing;  total, 
nothing." 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  131 

\ 

■ 

Clarence  had  not  thought  the  matter  through  to  a  correct  con- 
clusion, how  much  he  was  indebted  to  his  mother,  and  that,  the  hard 
work  she  had  to  do  was  as  much  for  the  boy  as  for  the  mother,  and 
what  an  opportunity  was  here  afforded,  for  him  to  show  his  love  and 
appreciation  for  his  mother,  for  what  she  had  done  and  was  doing  for 
him.  Clarence  had  not  thought  how  deeply  indebted  he  was  to  his 
mother,  nor  the  fact  that  he  could  not  live  long  enough,  nor  work  hard 
enough,  to  pay  fully  the  debt  of  gratitude  he  owed  to  her.  Many  of 
us  grownups  do  things  thoughtlessly  that  are  just  as  censurable. 

Many  members  of  the  Church,  young  and  old,  through  careless- 
ness and  thoughtlessness,  are  pursuing  a  course  in  life  that  will  sure- 
ly be  a  great  sorrow  to  them  in  the  future,  and  to  those  who  love  them 
most,  if  they  do  not  change  their  course.  And  even  should  they  in  the 
future  repent,  and  mend  their  ways,  they  may,  like  Saul  of  Tarsus, 
forever  after  have  a  thorn  in  the  flesh. 

My  sympathy  goes  out  to  all  such,  and  I  would  like  to  help  them 
to  see  and  choose  the  better  way. 

There  are  in  the  Church  today  more  than  45,000  men  past 
twenty-one  years  of  age,  who  hold  some  office  in  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood, who,  if  worthy,  should  have  been  ordained  to  the  office  of  elder 
in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  at  nineteen  years  of  age,  according 
to  the  order  of  the  Church,  but  who  have  never  received  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood,  nor  the  endowments  and  sealing  blessings  in 
the  house  of  the  Lord. 

Being  past  twenty-one  years  of  age,  a  large  percentage  of.  them 
are  married  men,  and  as  men  of  the  Church,  may  not  receive  the  en- 
dowments and  sealing  ordinances  of  the  temple  without  first  receiv- 
ing the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  It  is  clear  that  they  have  not  been 
married  in  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  and  that  if  they  have 
children,  they,  the  children,  have  not  been  born  in  that  covenant.  If 
the  parents  of  children  who  have  been  thus  born  ever  have  their  chil- 
dren for  eternity  the  children  will  have  to  be  sealed  to  their  parents, 
but  this  is  impossible  while  the  father  does  not  hold  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood.  Should  a  man  of  this  class  die  before  the  death  of  his 
wife,  he  has  no  assurance  that  if  he  has  rejected  these  ordinances,  his 
widow  will  go  to  the  temple,  after  a  year  has  elapsed,  and  be  sealed 
to  her  dead  husband,  and  have  their  children  sealed  to  them.  She  may 
decide  to  be  sealed  to  some  man  who  is  worthy  to  go  to  the  temple, 
and  who  has  proved  his  love  for  her,  and  his  desire  to  have  her  as  his 
wife  for  eternity.  Such  decisions  are  frequently  made,  and  then  the 
mother  wants  to  have  her  children  sealed  to  her,  and  the  only  way  that 
can  be  done  is  to  seal  them  to  the  mother,  and  the  man  to  whom  she 
is  sealed.  This  done,  the  father  has  lost  his  wife,  and  lost  his  children. 
Have  these  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  having  wives 
and  children,  thought  this  matter  through,  and  decided  to  run  the  risk 
of  losing  their  wives  and  children,  and  their  own  salvation?  Such 
thoughtlessness,  indifference,  and  neglect,  may  prove  a  source  of  ever- 
lasting sorrow. 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Third  Dag 

Of  all  sad  words  of  tongue  or  pen,  the  saddest  are  these,  it  might  have 
been.    (From  Maud  Muller.) 

.  .  .  neither  is  the  man  without  the  woman,  neither  the  woman  without 
the  man,  in  the  Lord.    (I  Cor.  11:11.) 

A  fulness  of  glory  may  not  be  had  outside  of  the  marriage  rela- 
tion, in  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  and  nothing  short  of  a  full- 
ness of  glory  will  be  satisfying  in  the  end.  It  will  be  just  too  bad  if 
through  carelessness  and  neglect,  men  of  the  Church  shall  lose  their 
wives,  their  children,  and  their  salvation.  These  are  among  the  great- 
est blessings  our  Father  has  to  give.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has 
left  of.  record  a  statement  that  when  God  offers  to  a  man  knowledge 
or  blessing,  and  he  rejects  it,  that  man  is  damned.  (Compendium,  p. 
279. )  If  through  neglect,  a  man  lose  his  wife,  his  children,  and  his 
salvation,  that  would  be  condemnation,  self-inflicted. 

Our  Duty  to  Our  Dead 

There  is  born  unto  every  man  in  the  Church  a  responsibility  to 
his  kindred  dead,  to  find  them  out  by  genealogical  search,  and  then  to 
do  the  temple  work  for  them,  or  have  done,  all  gospel  ordinances 
necessary  for  the  living,  being  alike  necessary  for  the  dead.  Since 
the  visitation  of  Elijah,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  in  the  Kirtland  Temple,  April  3,  1 836,  genealogical  societies 
have  been  organized,  and  genealogical  libraries  established,  through- 
out this  and  other  countries,  and  the  spirit  of  Elijah  has  been  in  evi- 
dence among  the  people  of  the  world,  in  their  search  to  know  of  their 
kindred  dead  (See  Comp.,  p.  282),  and  many  thousands  of  family 
histories  have  been  published  and  placed  in  these  libraries,  and  are 
thus  made  accessible  to  members  of.  the  Church.  In  this  we  see  the 
hand  of  the  Lord  manifested  through  nonmembers  of  the  Church,  in 
accomplishing  his  purposes  in  the  redemption  of  the  dead. 

The  genealogical  search  is  the  first  step  to  be  taken  in  the  work 
of  redemption  of  the  dead,  and  as  the  temple  work  cannot  be  done 
until  sufficient  information  is  had,  that  will  identify  the  dead  upon 
the  records,  it  makes  the  importance  of  genealogical  research,  on  a  par 
in  importance  with  the  temple  work  itself. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  said  that,  "The  greatest  respon- 
sibility in  this  world  that  God  has  laid  upon  us  is  to  seek  after  our 
dead."  ( Comp.,  p.  254. )  That  includes  both  genealogical  and  temple 
work. 

If  while  we  are  in  life,  we  altogether  neglect  this  sacred  duty  to 
our  dead,  there  is  no  doubt  that  we  will  be  deservedly  reproached  by 
them,  when  we  meet  them.  Have  we  thought  this  matter  through  and 
reached  correct  conclusions,  as  to  what  our  future  will  be  with  respect 
to  this  feature  of  our  religious  work,  and  responsibility? 

It  is  to  be  hoped  that  in  the  end  there  will  be  no  disappointments 
and  remorse  come  to  us  because  of  neglect. 

Are  we  quite  sure  that  we  have  done  our  full  duty  to  our  neigh- 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


133 


bors,  and  associates,  who  are  not  of  us,  in  an  effort  to  make  known  to 
them  the  fact  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel?  This  is  a  time  of  warn- 
ing, and  he  that  has  been  warned  is  to  warn  his  neighbors.  ( See  Doc. 
and  Cov.  88:81.) 

Have  we  thought  this  matter  through  and  satisfied  our  conscience 
on  this  point?  There  are  ever  before  us  the  hope  of  reward,  and  the 
fear  of  punishment  or  disappointment,  as  incentives  for  us  to  do  the 
things  that  we  know  we  ought  to  do,  and  to  leave  undone  the  things 
we  know  we  ought  not  to  do,  all  of  which  makes  for  salvation,  for  it 
is  written : 

.  .  .  until  the  law  sin  was  in  the  world:  but  sin  is  not  imputed  when 
there  is  no  law,  (Romans  5:13)  and,  .  .  .  where  no  law  is,  there  is  no 
transgression.    (Romans  4:15.) 

A  Testimony  of  the  Restoration  of  the  Gospel 

We  have  received  the  gospel,  the  law,  and  will  be  justified  only 
when  we  have  lived  the  law  as  we  understand  it.  Nor  will  we  be 
justified  in  living  in  ignorance  of  the  law  with  such  wonderful  oppor- 
tunities as  are  ours,  to  learn  and  to  know. 

As  a  witness  for  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  I  desire  to  bear  to  you 
my  testimony,  that  I  do  know  that  the  work  in  which  we,  as  Latter- 
day  Saints,  are  engaged,  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  restored  to  earth  in  this  the  gospel  dispensation, 
in  the  fulness  of  times,  with  all  its  gifts,  ordinances,  and  blessings, 
through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith,  whom  God  raised  up  to 
be  the  mighty  prophet  of  the  last  days.  It  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation  unto  all  those  who  receive  its  ordinances,  and  obey  its  pre- 
cepts. It  is  being  taught,  practiced,  and  authoritatively  administered 
to  the  repentant  believers,  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  commonly  called 
"Mormons."  Its  effect  upon  one  who  conscientiously  accepts  it  is  to 
establish  him  in  habits  of  conduct,  which  make  for  a  better  life,  a 
nobler  character,  a  fuller  and  more  enduring  peace,  and  a  greater  hope 
of  eternal  life.  It  has  a  restraining  and  a  stimulating  effect  upon  one's 
life,  restraining  him  from  doing  that  which  is  wrong,  and  stimulating 
him  to  do  that  which  is  right.  It  teaches  one  the  way  of  life  and  sal- 
vation, and  encourages  him  to  walk  therein. 

The  gospel  teaches  me  that  I  am  a  spirit-born  son  of  God  the 
Eternal  Father,  a  brother  of  Jesus  Christ,  of  most  noble  birth  and  an- 
cestry. It  teaches  me,  that  I  inherited  from  the  Father  those  qualities 
and  attributes  which  in  their  perfection  make  God,  the  Father,  what 
he  is;  that  I  am  placed  here  on  earth  for  the  purpose,  in  part,  of  per- 
fecting the  qualities  and  attributes  of  Deity  in  me  implanted,  with  the 
command: 

Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is 
perfect.    (Matt.  5:48.) 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Third  Day 

It  is  also  written: 


Let  this  mind  be  in  you,  which  was  also  in  Christ  Jesus:    Who,  being 


A  high  aspiration  indeed,  but  both  scriptural  and  reasonable.  It 
is  written  that  things  earthly  are  typical  of  things  heavenly.  It  is  most 
natural  that  the  Son  should  desire  to  become  like  his  Father,  either  in 
an  earthly  or  heavenly  sense.  In  this  thought,  and  possibility,  there 
is  great  comfort,  and  encouragement  for  one  to  enter  into  every  neces- 
sary covenant  of  faithfulness,  and  to  keep  faithfully  the  covenants 
entered  into. 

We  have  a  God-given  responsibility  to  preach  this  gospel  of  the 
kingdom  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations  before  the  end 
shall  come;  and  we  invite  all  men  to  come  unto  Christ  in  his  kingdom, 
by  obedience  unto  the  laws,  ordinances,  and  precepts  of  his  gospel, 
of  which  we  are  his  exponents  and  his  witnesses. 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings  to  us  all,  according  to  our  several 
needs,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Come, 
Come,  Ye  Saints,"  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  194. 

President  Clark:  We  will  now  turn  over  the  conference  to  the 
regular  Columbia  Church  of  the  Air  Service,  on  which  President 
George  Albert  Smith,  President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  de- 
liver the  address. 

COLUMBIA  CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  SERVICE 

Theme:  "Sweet  is  the  Work."  Open  with  approximately  fifteen 
seconds  of  organ  music. 

Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans :  The  Church  of  the  Air  was  estab- 
lished by  the  Columbia  network  so  that  representatives  of  the  major 
faiths  might  bring  their  messages  to  a  nationwide  congregation  of 
worshippers.  This  series,  which  is  now  in  its  fourteenth  year  of  con- 
tinuous broadcasts,  presents  two  devotional  programs  each  Sunday. 
Today,  the  network  service  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  comes  to  you  through  the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  and 
originates  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City 
where  the  1 1 5th  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  is  in  session.  The 
speaker  will  be  President  George  Albert  Smith  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles.  The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall,  provides  the  music  for  the  service.  Alexander 
Schreiner  is  at  the  organ. 

The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "My  Redeemer  Lives,"  Gates. 
( President  George  Albert  Smith ) 

The  Choir  sang  "Turn  Thy  Face  from  My  Sins" — Sullivan. 

Theme:  "Sweet  Is  the  Work" — (Organ  with  humming  Choir). 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  135 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  all  children  of  our  Heavenly 
Father:  Wherever  you  may  be,  I  greet  you  and  address  you  with  a 
prayerful  desire  that  what  I  say  may  be  a  source  of  comfort  and  prove 
to  be  a  blessing. 

God's  Plan  In  the  Creation 

The  Holy  Bible  contains  the  advice  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and 
I  accept  without  mental  reservation  the  statements  made  in  Genesis, 
chapters  1  and  2,  that  in  the  beginning  God  created  the  heaven  and 
the  earth  and  every  living  thing  that  has  inhabited  the  earth,  including 
man.' 

So  God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the  image  of  God  created 
he  him;  male  and  female  created  he  them. 

And  God^  blessed  them,  and  God  said  unto  them,  Be  fruitful,  and  mul- 
tiply, and  replenish  the  earth,  and  subdue  it.  (Genesis  1:27,  28.) 

These  are  the  generations  of  the  heavens  and  of  the  earth  when  they 
were  created,  in  the  day  that  the  Lord  God  made  the  earth  and  the  heav- 
ens. And  every  plant  of  the  field  before  it  was  in  the  earth,  and  every  herb 
of  the  field  before  it  grew:  for  the  Lord  God  had  not  caused  it  to  rain  upon 
the  earth,  and  there  was  not  a  man  to  till  the  ground.  (Genesis  2:4,  5.) 

This  was  all  a  spiritual  creation.  Then  follows  the  physical  cre- 
ation. 

And  the  Lord  God  formed  man  of  the  dust  of  the  ground,  and  breathed 
into  his  nostrils  the  breath  of  life;  and  man  became  a  living  soul.  (Gen- 
esis 2:7.) 

It  was  in  the  plan  of  our  Heavenly  Father  that  every  living  thing 
that  he  created  should  each  reproduce  after  its  kind.  Adam  and  Eve 
were  the  children  of  God;  they  were  our  first  parents,  and  every  hu- 
man being  that  has  lived  upon  the  earth  descended  from  them.  God 
gave  them  their  agency  to  decide  for  themselves  in  all  matters  and 
held  them  responsible  for  their  conduct.  They  received  their  instruc- 
tions in  the  Garden  of  Eden  from  our  Heavenly  Father  and  those 
teachings  were  preserved  for  succeeding  generations. 

Biblical  chronology  indicates  that  nearly  six  thousand  years  ago 
our  first  parents  began  their  earth  life.  The  Lord  instructed  them  how 
they  should  conduct  themselves,  and  his  prophets  divinely  commis- 
sioned to  speak  for  him,  have  taught  Adam's  descendants  through  the 
ages  how  to  live  to  be  happy  in  mortality  and  so  qualify  that  when  the 
time  comes  for  them  to  die,  they  may  pass  into  immortality  taking 
with  them  the  riches  of  their  characters  and  the  knowledge  they  have 
gained  here.  Those  who  conform  their  lives  most  nearly  to  the  teach- 
ings of  our  Heavenly  Father  will  receive  the  greatest  reward  and  en- 
joy the  most  happiness  here  and  hereafter. 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Third  Dag 

The  Value  of  the  Bible 

Among  other  things,  the  prophets  were  required  to  keep  a  record 
of  the  truth  that  was  revealed  to  them  from  time  to  time  that  it  might 
be  passed  on  for  the  benefit  of  their  posterity,  each  generation  in- 
heriting from  its  forebears.  Today,  therefore,  we  of  this  generation 
are  in  possession  of  a  record  that  has  been  preserved  for  our  guidance 
containing  information  that  the  Lord  has  revealed  from  the  beginning. 
I  refer  to  the  Holy  Hible.  Not  only  does  it  declare  that  which  has 
occurred  in  the  past,  but  it  tells  of  events  that  were  to  occur  in  the  fu- 
ture, in  some  cases  generations  before  they  actually  did  occur.  It  also 
informs  us  that  fulfilment  occurred  at  the  time  that  had  been  specified. 

The  Prophet  Amos  said: 

Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto 
his  servants  the  prophets.  (Amos  3:7.) 

The  Warning  of  the  Prophets 

I  know  of  nothing  of  great  importance  that  has  happened  in  the 
world  that  the  Lord  through  his  prophets  has  not  advised  the  people 
of  beforehand,  so  that  they  have  not  been  left  in  ignorance  of  what 
was  to  develop,  but  could  plan  their  lives,  if  they  would,  to  their  ad- 
vantage.   I  cite  the  following  incidents  in  support  of  this: 

The  case  of  Noah  is  in  point.  He  was  commanded  of  the  Lord 
to  build  an  ark  in  which  the  righteous  might  be  preserved  from  the 
flood  which  was  to  come.  Noah  built  the  ark  and  preached  repent- 
ance to  his  generation  for  a  period  of  one  hundred  and  twenty  years, 
thus  fully  warning  them.  The  people,  however,  were  so  wicked  that 
they  failed  to  heed  the  warning.  Having  their  agency,  they  chose  evil 
rather  than  righteousness.  The  rains  descended,  and  the  floods 
came,  and  only  Noah  and  his  family  of  eight  souls  were  saved.  All 
had  been  fully  warned,  but  because  of  their  wilfulness  and  their  re- 
fusal to  repent  they  were  drowned. 

Another  instance  is  that  of  Abraham  and  his  posterity.  He  was 
informed  that  his  seed  would  go  into  a  strange  land  and  after  serving 
there  for  a  period  of  four  hundred  years,  would  come  out  with  great 
substance,  all  of  which  was  thereafter  literally  fulfilled  when  Moses, 
being  a  descendant  of  Abraham,  led  the  children  of  Israel  out  of 
Egypt  back  to  the  promised  land. 

Joseph,  a  faithful  son  of  Jacob,  who  had  been  sold  into  slavery 
by  his  brothers,  was  in  a  prison  in  Egypt  when  Pharaoh  had  a  dream 
that  troubled  him,  that  his  wise  men  could  not  interpret.  Pharaoh  was 
told  that  Joseph  could  interpret  the  dream,  and  he  was  brought  before 
the  king.  He  informed  Pharaoh  that  he  could  not  interpret  the  dream 
but  that  God  would  give  Pharaoh  the  answer.  Joseph,  having  re- 
ceived the  interpretation  from  the  Lord,  told  Pharaoh  that  his  dream 
was  of  great  importance,  that  there  were  to  be  seven  years  of  plenty 
throughout  the  land,  followed  by  seven  years  of  famine,  and  if  Pha- 
raoh during  the  years  of  plenty  would  accumulate  food,  when  the 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  137 


famine  came  his  people  would  not  starve.  Pharaoh  accepted  Joseph's 
interpretation  and  advice,  then  rewarded  him  by  making  him  overseer 
of  Egypt,  only  the  king  being  greater  than  he.  At  the  end  of  fourteen 
years  the  dream  as  interpreted  by  Joseph  had  been  literally  fulfilled, 
the  Egyptians  having  been  saved  from  starvation. 

Another  prophetic  incident  was  the  attempt  to  rebuild  Jericho. 
When  the  city  of  Jericho  was  overthrown,  a  curse  was  placed  upon 
it,  and  the  people  were  warned  that  any  man  who  should  rebuild  it 
would  lose  his  first-born  and  his  youngest  son.  The  city  lay  waste 
until  hundreds  of  years  had  passed,  when  Hiel,  a  Bethelite,  who  lived 
in  the  days  of  Ahab,  ventured  to  rebuild  the  city,  but  no  sooner  had 
he  laid  its  foundation  than  Abiram,  his  first  born  son,  died.  Still 
persevering  in  his  determination  to  complete  his  work,  he  set  up  the 
gates,  and  Segub,  his  youngest  son,  passed  away,  thus  fulfilling  the 
prophecy. 

Then  there  is  the  instance  where  Jeremiah  prophesied  that  Jeru- 
salem would  be  overthrown  and  her  people  remain  in  bondage  for 
seventy  years.  This  was  to  be  accomplished  by  Nebuchadnezzar  of 
Babylon.  In  due  time  Jerusalem  with  its  beautiful  temple  was  burned. 
Her  princes,  nobles,  artisans,  and  many  of  her  people  were  carried  as 
prisoners  to  Bablyon  along  with  the  sacred  vessels  from  the  temple. 

One  hundred  and  forty  years  before  Cyrus  the  Great  was  born, 
the  prophet  Isaiah  predicted  his  birth  and  announced  his  name  and 
said  that  he  should  overthrow  Babylon;  also  that  he  would  rebuild 
Jerusalem,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  he  was  alien  to  all  the  inter- 
ests of  the  Jews. 

When  Cyrus  was  about  fifty  years  of  age,  after  subduing  many 
peoples  and  small  nations,  he  appeared  with  his  army  before  Babylon, 
the  then  greatest  of  all  cities,  with  its  impregnable  walls,  three  hun- 
dred feet  high,  and  its  mighty  gates  of  iron  and  brass.  Instead  of 
attacking  the  walls,  he  diverted  the  Euphrates  River  that  flowed 
through  the  city  and  used  the  channel  under  the  walls  by  which  to 
enter  Babylon.  He  captured  the  city  without  difficulty,  while  Bel- 
shazzar,  the  king,  with  his  courtiers  were  drinking  themselves  drunk 
and  desecrating  the  sacred  vessels  of  the  house  of  the  Lord  which  his 
father,  Nebuchadnezzar,  had  brought  from  Jerusalem. 

Within  the  city,  Cyrus  found  the  Hebrew  prophet,  Daniel,  who 
had  already  interpreted  the  handwriting  on  the  wall,  having  informed 
Belshazzar  that  he  had  been  "weighed  in  the  balance  and  found  want- 
ing." Having  access  to  the  Jewish  records,  Cyrus  learned  that  the 
God  of  Israel  had  decreed  that  he  was  to  rebuild  Jerusalem.  He 
promptly  issued  a  proclamation  to  the  Jews  to  return  to  Jerusalem  and 
for  the  nations  to  assist  them  in  rebuilding  the  city  and  the  temple. 
This  was  accomplished  exactly  seventy  years  after  Jerusalem  was 
destroyed,  thus  fulfilling  Jeremiah's  prophecy  uttered  more  than  one 
hundred  years  before. 

The  destruction  of  Babylon  is  another  case  in  point.  When 
Babylon  was  in  the  height  of.  her  glory,  Isaiah  prophesied  that  it 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  "hied  Day 

should  be  destroyed,  "that  it  should  never  be  inhabited,  neithe::  dwelt 
in  from  generation  to  generation."  It  was  completely  destroyed  and 
inundated  by  the  flood  waters  of  the  river.  Now,  after  more  than  two 
thousand  years,  the  city  that  at  that  time  was  the  greatest  unde ir  heav- 
en is  still  a  heap  of  ruins. 

The  Old  Testament  is  replete  with  remarkable  and  almost  un- 
believable prophecies  that  were  fulfilled  to  the  letter.  Only  by  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord  could  the  prophets  have  known  what  was  to 
occur  and  only  God  could  fulfill  their  predictions.  Isaiah,  Jeiemiah, 
Ezekiel,  Joseph,  and  others  were  human  beings  like  their  fellows,  but 
they  were  chosen  to  represent  the  Lord  and  the  inspiration  of  the 
Almighty  directed  their  utterances  and  the  power  of  the  Lord  fulfilled 
their  promises. 

Lei  us  refer  to  one  of  many  predictions  in  the  New  Teslament. 
Read  the  entire  twenty-first  chapter  of  St.  Luke. 

And  when  ye  shall  see  Jerusalem  compassed  with  armies,  then  kj  ow 
that  the  desolation  thereof  is  nigh. 

This  prophecy  involves  the  fate  of  Jerusalem,  of  the  temp  e,  and 
the  whole  Jewish  nation  for  nineteen  hundred  years  and  is  still  in 
the  course  of  fulfilment. 

In  the  year  70  A.D.,  the  Roman  army  encompassed  Jerusalem. 
The  faithful  disciples,  remembering  the  warning  that  Jesus  had  given, 
fled  to  the  mountains.  The  city  was  taken  after  a  long  siege  in  which 
the  inhabitants  suffered  the  extremes  of  famine,  pestilence,  and  the 
sword.  In  addition  to  those  taken  captive  one  and  one-half  million 
Jews  perished.  The  country  was  laid  waste  and  the  temple  destroyed, 
not  one  stone  being  left  upon  another,  and  the  population  was  dis- 
persed into  all  the  nations  of  the  earth — all  as  predicted. 

Today  the  Jews  are  a  people  without  a  country  and  are  sl  ff ering 
most  inhuman  treatment  under  the  tyranny  of  so-called  Christ  an  na- 
tions. In  their  dispersion  and  suffering  they  have  fulfilled  prophecy 
and  will  in  the  future  further  fulfill  it  by  returning  to  their  homeland. 

Jerusalem  and  Babylon,  warned  by  the  Lord's  servants  that  they 
must  repent  of  their  wickedness  or  they  would  be  punished,  defiantly 
refused,  and  destruction  followed.  Other  cities  and  nations  have  be- 
come rich,  powerful,  and  wicked,  and  have  passed  into  oblivion.  As 
we  look  back  at  these  happenings  do  we  fail  to  realize  that  today  the 
world  is  reaping  a  harvest  of  sorrow  and  destruction  because  of  the 
iniquity  of  its  inhabitants? 

Repentance  the  Salvation  of  Mankind 

With  the  people  of  the  world  ignoring  the  advice  of  our  Heaven- 
ly Father  and  suffering  the  penalty  of  wilfulness,  will  we  follow  the 
path  of  evil  when  the  history  of  the  past  teaches  us  that  dest  ruction 
will  eventually  overtake  us  unless  we  turn  to  the  Lord?  O  lly  re- 
pentance can  save  us.   Will  we  repent  before  it  is  too  late? 

We  are  not  landlords.   We  do  not  own  any  part  of  the  earth  or 


■- 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  139 


its  riches.  At  most  we  are  only  temporary  tenants.  We  leave  it  all 
here  when  we  pass  on.  Naked  we  came  into  the  world,  and  naked 
we  depart.  This  is  the  Lord's  earth,  and  keeping  his  commandments 
is  the  rent  we  pay  for  the  blessings  of  life  and  all  that  we  will  enjoy 
here  and  hereafter. 

We  are  living  eternal  life,  and  our  position  hereafter  will  be  the 
result  of  our  lives  here.  Every  man  will  be  judged  according  to  his 
works,  and  he  will  receive  only  that  degree  of  glory  that  he  has  earned. 

It  is  nearly  two  thousand  years  since  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  came 
to  earth  and  gave  his  life  as  a  ransom  for  us  that  through  him  all  might 
be  resurrected  from  the  dead.  He  was  the  first  fruits  of  the  resurrec- 
tion. He  taught  us  to  love  our  neighbor  as  ourself  and  to  do  good  to 
all  people.  His  teachings  in  the  New  Testament  are  a  most  valuable 
part  of  the  Holy  Bible.   It  was  he  who  said: 

Search  the  scriptures;  for  in  them  ye  think  ye  have  eternal  life:  and 
they  are  they  which  testify  of  me.    (John  5:39.) 

He  knew  that  a  knowledge  of  the  scriptures  was  most  important. 
The  nations  that  have  been  most  influenced  by  the  Bible  have  ac- 
complished most  to  bring  success  and  happiness  and  enlightenment  to 
the  world  along  every  line  of  endeavor  because  they  have  profited  by 
the  guidance  of  the  God  of  heaven  and  earth.   We  read  in  Job : 

.  . .  There  is  a  spirit  in  man:  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  giveth 
them  understanding.  (Job  32-8.) 

In  times  like  these  we  should  seek  that  inspiration  through 
righteousness.  It  will  come  in  no  other  way. 

W'ith  our  sons  and  daughters  pouring  out  their  blood  like  a  river 
on  the  battlefields  of  the  world  to  save  us  from  destruction,  surely  the 
most  praiseworthy  and  effective  thing  we  can  do  to  show  our  apprecia- 
tion of  their  sacrifice  will  be  to  repent  of  our  sins  and  set  our  lives  and 
our  homes  in  order  so  that  we  can  worthily  ask  our  Heavenly  Father 
to  restore  peace  to  the  earth  and  bring  our  loved  ones  back  to  us  again. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  companionship  of  the  many  intelligent, 
righteous  people  who  live  in  this  most  favored  of  all  lands  and  in  other 
lands.  My  life  has  been  enriched  by  your  association,  and  I  thank 
you  for  it.  I  desire  most  earnestly  that  we  shall  all  earn  and  receive 
an  eternal  inheritance  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  Lord  right  here 
upon  this  earth  when  we  attain  to  immortality.  In  this  the  evening  of 
my  mortal  life,  I  leave  with  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  the 
God  of  our  fathers,  our  God  still  lives  and  loves  us  and  desires  our 
happiness  and  exaltation,  and  I  leave  this  witness  with  my  love  and 
blessing  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  his  Beloved  Son,  our  Redeemer. 
Amen. 

President  Clark: 

We  will  now  resume  the  regular  session  of  this  Conference. 

Our  concluding  speaker  will  be  President  David  O.  McKay  of 
the  First  Presidency.   He  will  now  address  us. 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Third  Day 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

And  the  Pharisees  came  to  him,  and  asked  him,  Is  it  lawful  for  a  man 
to  put  away  his  wife!  tempting  him. 

And  he  answered  and  said  unto  them,  What  did  Moses  command 

you? 

And  they  said,  Moses  suffered  to  write  a  bill  of  divorcement,  and  to 
put  her  away. 

And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  them,  For  the  hardness  of  your 
heart  he  wrote  you  this  precept.  (Mark  10:2-5.) 

Sacredness  of  Marriage  Taught  By  Jesus 

Recently,  I  heard  President  Grant  express  grave  concern  over 
the  apparent  increase  of  the  number  of  applications  for  the  severance 
of  marital  bonds.  His  concern  and  fears  that  there  is  a  growing  laxity 
in  the  minds  of  young  people  with  respect  to  the  importance  and  sac- 
redness  of  the  marriage  covenant  suggest  the  topic  "Marriage  and 
Divorce"  to  which  I  now  invite  your  attention. 

Adjustments  to  be  made  by  newly  married  couples  when  young 
husbands  now  in  the  armed  forces  return  to  civilian  life  suggest  an- 
other condition  that  makes  such  a  consideration  not  wholly  untimely. 

In  all  the  problems  and  perplexities  of  human  existence,  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  one  safe  guide  to  whom  we  can  go  for  guidance  and  com- 
fort. Mark's  account  of  Jesus'  answer  to  the  Pharisees  on  divorce 
sets  forth  the  Savior's  attitude  toward  this  vital  question. 

A  careful  study  of  this  text,  and  other  references  that  he  made 
to  marriage  and  divorce,  leave  little  doubt  that  Jesus  set  forth  the  lofty 
ideal  that  marriage  is  of  divine  origin  and  that  the  marriage  bond 
should  be  held  sacred. 

This  lofty  ideal  of,  marriage  is  confirmed  by  modern  revelation, 
and  is  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  as  follows : 
'  ■ 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  whoso  forbiddeth  to  marry  is 
not  ordained  of  God,  for  marriage  is  ordained  of  God  unto  man. 

Wherefore,  it  is  lawful  that  he  should  have  one  wife,  and  they  twain 
shall  be  one  flesh,  and  all  this  that  the  earth  might  answer  the  end  of  its 
creation; 

And  that  it  might  be  filled  with  the  measure  of  man,  according  to  his  crea- 
tion before  the  world  was  made.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  49:15-17.) 

When  the  Pharisees,  seeking  to  justify  the  granting  of  divorce, 
cited  the  fact  that  "Moses  suffered  to  write  a  bill  of  divorcement  and 
to  put  a  wife  away"  on  the  ground  of  "some  uncleanness,"  Jesus  an- 
swered: 

.  .  .  For  the  hardness  of  your  heart  he  wrote  you  this  precept.  But 
from  the  beginning  of  the  creation  God  made  them  male  and  female.  For 
this  cause  shall  a  man  leave  his  father  and  mother,  and  cleave  to  his  wife; 
And  they  twain  shall  be  one  flesh;  so  then  they  are  no  more  twain,  but 
one  flesh.  What  therefore  God  hath  joined  together,  let  not  man  put 
asunder.    (Mark  10:5-9.) 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  141 


In  the  light  of  scripture,  ancient  and  modern,  we  are  justified  in 
concluding  that  Christ's  ideal  pertaining  to  marriage  is  the  unbroken 
home,  and  conditions  that  cause  divorce  are  violations  of  his  divine 
teachings.   Some  of  these  are : 

Unfaithfulness  on  the  part  of  either  or  both,  habitual  drunken- 
ness, physical  violence,  long  imprisonment  that  disgraces  the  wife  and 
family,  the  union  of  an  innocent  girl  to  a  reprobate — in  these  and  per- 
haps other  cases  there  may  be  circumstances  which  make  the  con- 
tinuance of  the  marriage  state  a  greater  evil  than  divorce.  But  these 
are  extreme  cases — they  are  the  mistakes,  the  calamities  in  the  realm 
of  marriage. 

On  the  other  hand,  to  look  upon  marriage  as  a  mere  contract  that 
may  be  entered  into  at  pleasure  in  response  to  a  romantic  whim,  or  for 
selfish  purposes,  and  severed  at  the  first  difficulty  or  misunderstand- 
ing that  may  arise,  is  an  evil  meriting  severe  condemnation,  especially 
in  cases  wherein  children  are  made  to  suffer  because  of  such  separa- 
tion. 

Dangers  Threatening  the  Marriage  Relation 

Marriage  is  a  sacred  relationship  entered  into  for  purposes  that 
are  well  recognized — primarily  for  the  rearing  of  a  family.  It  is 
claimed  by  some  careful  observers  that  our  present  modern  life  tends 
to  frustrate  these  purposes.    Writes  one: 

Modern  living  conditions  contribute  to  these  frustrations.  Formerly 
a  married  woman  had  a  home  to  care  for,  often  several  children.  Today, 
in  many  parts  of  our  country,  a  married  woman  continues  either  to  follow 
her  vocation  or  to  spend  her  time  seeking  new  stimulations — no  children 
to  care  for — no  house  to  clean — no  meals  to  cook.  Under  such  a  condi- 
tion her  leisure  time  activities  become  her  all-absorbing  interests — inter- 
ests which  often  lead  her  away  from  her  husband  rather  than  to  him. 

Twenty-four  years  ago  when  the  steamship  Marama  dropped 
anchor  outside  the  coral  reef  that  surrounds  the  island  Rarotonga,  a 
passenger  desiring  to  go  ashore  asked  the  captain  why  he  did  not  sail 
nearer  to  the  wharf.  In  answer  the  experienced  seaman  mentioned 
treacherous  waters  and  pointed  to  an  engine  of  one  ship,  the  Maitai, 
and  to  the  bow  of.  another,  still  protruding  out  of  the  water — both  car- 
rying mute  evidence  of  the  danger  of  anchoring  too  close  to  the  shore 
of  this  coral-bound  island.  "We  anchor  here,"  said  the  captain,  "be- 
cause it  is  safer  to  avoid  being  dashed  to  pieces,  as  those  two  vessels, 
on  those  dangerous  reefs." 

A  flippant  attitude  toward  marriage,  the  ill-advised  suggestion 
of  "companionate  marriage,"  the  base,  diabolical  theory  of  "free  sex 
experiment,"  and  the  ready-made  divorce  courts  are  dangerous  reefs 
upon  which  many  a  family  bark  is  wrecked. 

An  ever-decreasing  birth  rate  and  an  increasing  divorce  rate  are 
ominous  signs  threatening  the  stability  of  the  American  home,  and 
the  perpetuity  of  our  present  form  of  constitutional  government.  An 


142 

Sunday,  April  8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


editorial  in  a  weekly  magazine,  published  in  the  capital  of  the  nation, 
says: 

Since  1890  the  United  States  of  America's  national  birth  rate  has 
dropped  from  32.9  per  1,000  population  to  17.4  per  1,000  population. 

In  those  same  years,  the  national  average  for  divorces  jumped  from  5.7 
per  100  marriages  to  19.3  per  100  marriages. 

A  falling  birth  rate  plus  a  rising  divorce  rate  speak  ill  for  individual 
faith  in  the  future.   Hence  it  speaks  ill  for  the  nation's  future. 

What,  in  the  long  run,  is  the  point  of  vast  new  public  programs  if  the 
individual,  continually  fearful  of  tomorrow,  flutters  from  mate  to  mate  and 
deliberately  robs  the  nation  of  his,  or  her,  own  good  qualities  in  the  next 
generation?  A  nation's  permanency  is  entirely  dependent  on  the  perm- 
anency of  its  individual  homes,  the  family  pride  of  its  citizens  and  the  re- 
production of  those  families,  generation  by  generation. 

Ex-president  Taft  on  one  occasion  said: 

Our  state  rests  upon  our  homes.  And  if  we  cannot  keep  our  homes  from 
this  constant  demoralizing  breaking  up,  we  had  better  go  out  of  the  busi- 
ness of  government  entirely. 

In  some  states  of  the  union,  it  is  almost  as  easy  to  get  a  divorce 
as  it  is  to  get  married.  As  a  result  of  this  laxity,  one  out  of  every  five 
marriages  ends  either  in  divorce  or  annulment. 

Divorce  Increasing  In  Civil  and  Church  Marriages 

Though  statistics  indicate  that  there  is  a  much  lower  divorce  rate 
in  the  Church  than  in  the  nation,  yet  there  is  cause  for  concern  over 
the  number  of  marriages  annulled  annually  in  the  divorce  courts. 

With  the  assistance  of  the  Presiding  Bishop's  office  and  Pro- 
fessor Roy  A.  West,  I  have  before  me  a  comparison  of  marriages  and 
divorces  in  the  Church  from  1 920  to  1 944.  It  sets  forth  the  fact  that 
though  there  are  fewer  divorces  among  couples  married  in  the  temples 
and  by  stake  and  ward  authorities  than  by  civil  officers  and  other 
churches,  yet  divorces  are  increasing  even  in  the  Church. 

For  example,  during  the  period  1920-1922  there  was  one  divorce 
for  every  38.24  marriages  among  couples  married  in  the  temples  and 
by  stake  and  ward  authorities,  but  there  was,  during  those  same  years, 
one  divorce  for  every  13.20  marriages  among  couples  married  by  civil 
officers.    Comparatively,  that  ratio  continues  throughout  the  twenty 
years,  as  you  will  note  by  the  following  taken  at  random:  (The  first 
figure  will  be  the  Church  marriage;  the  second,  the  civil  marriage. ) 
1 923  to  1 925 — one  divorce  to  every 
33  marriages;  one  divorce  to  every 
15  marriages. 
1935  to  1937 — one  divorce  to  every 
28  marriages;  one  divorce  to  every 
12.52  marriages. 
1938  to  1940 — one  divorce  to  every 
26.61  marriages;  one  divorce  to 
every  10.13  marriages. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  143 


Last  year  there  was  one  divorce  for  every  seventeen  marriages 
among  couples  married  in  temples  and  by  stake  and  ward  authorities, 
and  one  divorce  for  every  6.9  ( we  will  say  seven )  marriages  among 
couples  married  by  civil  officers.  There  is  cause  for  concern  over  the 
increase  of  divorces  in  this  country  and  even  in  our  Church. 

Divorce  Rate  in  the  Church  and  in  the  United  States 

The  ratio  of  divorce  to  marriage  in  the  United  States  is  three 
times  higher  than  in  the  Church.  In  1920  there  were  7.5  marriages  to 
every  divorce  in  the  United  States;  while  in  the  Church  there  were 
24.8  marriages  to  every  divorce.  In  1935,  the  United  States  had  a 
ratio  of  6.1  marriages  to  every  divorce;  during  the  same  year  the 
Church  had  a  ratio  of  17.9  marriages  to  each  divorce. 

The  real  source  of  security  of  our  nation  rests  in  the  well  ordered, 
properly  conducted  homes.  The  character  of  a  child  is  formed  largely 
during  the  first  twelve  years  of  his  life.  It  is  estimated  that  in  that 
period  the  child  spends  approximately  3,240  hours  in  school;  416 
hours  in  Sunday  School  and  church,  but  52,560  hours  in  the  home,  not 
counting  twelve  hours  a  day  for  sleep.  In  other  words,  he  spends 
sixteen  times  as  many  waking  hours  in  the  home  as  in  school,  and  one 
hundred  twenty-six  times  as  many  hours  in  the  home  as  in  the  Church. 

In  the  homes  of  America  are  born  the  children  of  America,  and  from 
them  go  out  into  American  life  American  men  and  women.  They  go  out 
with  the  stamp  of  these  homes  upon  them,  and  only  as  these  homes  are 
what  they  should  be,  will  children  be  what  they  should  be. 

Luther  Burbank,  the  great  plant  wizard,  most  impressively  em- 
phasizes the  need  for  constant  attention  in  the  training  of  a  child. 
He  says: 

Teach  the  child  self-respect.  Train  it  in  self-respect  just  as  you  train  a 
plant  in  better  ways.  No  self-respecting  man  was  ever  a  grafter.  Above 
all,  bear  in  mind  repetition — the  use  of  an  influence  over  and  over  again, 
keeping  everlastingly  at  it.  This  is  what  fixes  traits  in  plants,  the  con- 
stant repetition  of  an  influence  until  at  last  it  is  irrevocably  fixed  and  will 
not  change.  You  cannot  afford  to  get  discouraged.  You  are  dealing  with 
something  far  more  precious  than  any  plant — the  precious  soul  of  a  child! 

There  are  three  fundamental  things  to  which  every  child  is  en- 
titled :  ( 1 )  a  respected  name,  ( 2 )  a  sense  of  security,  ( 3 )  opportuni- 
ties for  development. 

The  family  gives  to  the  child  his  name  and  standing  in  the  com- 
munity. A  child  wants  his  family  to  be  as  good  as  those  of  his  friends. 
He  wants  to  be  able  to  point  with  pride  to  his  father,  and  to  feel  an 
inspiration  always  as  he  thinks  of  his  mother.  It  is  a  mother's  duty 
so  to  live  that  her  children  will  associate  with  her  everything  that  is 
beautiful,  sweet,  and  pure.  And  the  father  should  so  live  that  the 
child,  emulating  his  example,  will  be  a  good  citizen,  and,  in  the 
Church,  a  true  Latter-day  Saint, 


144  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  8  Third  Day 

Security 

A  child  has  the  right  to  feel  that  in  his  home  he  has  a  place  of 
refuge,  a  place  of  protection  from  the  dangers  and  evils  of  the  outside 
world.    Family  unity  and  integrity  are  necessary  to  supply  this  need. 

He  needs  parents  who  are  happy  in  their  adjustment  to  each  other,  who 
are  working  hopefully  toward  the  fulfilment  of  an  ideal  of  living,  who 
love  their  children  with  a  sincere  and  unselfish  love;  in  short,  who  are  well- 
balanced  individuals,  gifted  with  a  certain  amount  of  insight,  who  are  able 
to  provide  the  child  with  a  wholesome  emotional  background  which  will 
contribute  more  to  his  development  than  materia]  advantages. 

Divorce  almost  invariably  deprives  children  of  these  advantages. 

How  to  Lessen  the  Breaking  Up  of  Homes 

1 .  Substitute  the  present  tendency  toward  a  low  view  of.  marriage 
by  the  lofty  view  which  Jesus  the  Christ  gives  it.  Let  us  look  upon  mar- 
riage as  a  sacred  obligation  and  a  covenant  that  is  eternal,  or  that  may 
be  made  eternal. 

2.  Teach  the  young  of  both  sexes  in  the  responsibilities  and  ideals 
of  marriage  so  that  they  may  realize  that  marriage  involves  obliga- 
tion, and  is  not  an  arrangement  to  be  terminated  at  pleasure.  Teach 
them  that  pure  love  between  the  sexes  is  one  of  the  noblest  things  on 
earth,  and  the  bearing  and  rearing  of  children  the  highest  of  all  hu- 
man duties.  In  this  regard  it  is  the  duty  of  parents  to  set  an  example 
in  the  home  that  children  may  see  and  absorb,  as  it  were,  the  sacred- 
ness  of  family  life  and  the  responsibility  associated  therewith. 

3.  The  number  of  broken  marriages  can  be  reduced  if  couples 
realize  even  before  they  approach  the  altar  that  marriage  is  a  state 
of  mutual  service,  a  state  of  giving  as  well  as  of  receiving,  and  that 
each  must  give  of  himself  or  herself  to  the  utmost.  Harriet  Beecher 
Stowe  wisely  writes : 

No  man  or  woman  can  create  a  true  home  who  is  not  willing  in  the 
outset  to  embrace  life  heroically,  to  encounter  labor  and  sacrifice.  Only 
to  such  can  this  divinest  power  be  given  to  create  on  earth  that  which  is 
the  nearest  image  of  heaven. 

4.  Another  condition  that  contributes  to  the  permanence  of  the 
marriage  covenant  is  marriage  in  the  temple.  Before  such  a  marriage 
is  consummated,  it  is  necessary  for  the  young  man  and  young  woman 
first  to  obtain  a  recommend  from  the  bishop.  They  should  go  to  him 
in  person,  and  the  bishop  who  does  his  duty  will  instruct  the  couple 
regarding  the  sacredness  of  the  obligation  that  they  are  as  young  peo- 
ple going  to  assume,  emphasizing  all  the  safeguards  that  have  been 
named  before.  There  in  the  presence  of  the  priesthood  the  young 
people  receive,  before  they  take  upon  themselves  the  obligation,  in- 
struction upon  the  sacredness  of  the  duty  which  is  before  them;  and, 
furthermore,  whether  or  not  they  are  prepared  to  go  in  holiness  and 
purity  to  the  altar  of  God  and  there  seal  their  vows  and  love. 


PRESIDENT  DA  VID  O.  McKA  Y  1 45 


5.  Finally,  there  is  one  principle  which  seems  to  me  to  strike  right 
at  the  base  of  the  happiness  of  the  marriage  relation,  and  that  is  the 
standard  of  purity  taught  and  practiced  among  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
It  is  a  common  saying  throughout  the  world  that  young  men  may  sow 
their  wild  oats,  but  that  young  women  should  be  chaperoned  and 
guarded.  In  the  Church  of  Christ  there  is  but  one  standard  of  moral- 
ity. No  young  man  has  any  more  right  to  sow  his  wild  oats  than  has 
a  young  girl.  She  is  taught  that  second  only  to  the  crime  of  taking 
human  life  is  that  of  losing  her  virtue.  And  that  is  the  ideal  among 
young  men.  That  young  man  who  comes  to  the  bishop  and  asks  for 
a  recommend  to  take  a  pure  girl  to  the  altar  is  expected  to  give  just 
the  same  purity  that  he  expects  to  receive. 
■ 

Conclusion 

For  the  proper  solution  of  this  great  problem  we  may  turn  with 
safety  to  Jesus  as  our  guide.  He  declared  that  the  marriage  relation 
is  of  divine  origin,  that  "marriage  is  ordained  of  God,"  that  only  un- 
der the  most  exceptional  conditions  should  it  be  set  aside.  In  the 
teaching  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  the  family  assumes  supreme  impor- 
tance in  the  development  of  the  individual  and  of  society.  "Happy 
and  thrice  happy  are  they  who  enjoy  an  uninterrupted  union,  and 
whose  love,  unbroken  by  any  complaint,  shall  not  dissolve  until  the 
last  day." 

The  marriage  ceremony  when  sealed  by  the  authority  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  endures,  as  do  family  relationships,  throughout  time  and 
all  eternity. 

What  therefore  God  hath  joined  together,  let  not  man  put  asunder. 

God  bless  these  young  couples  who  must  make  new  adjustments, 
some  under  trying  circumstances,  when  the  boys  and  husbands  come 
home  from  war,  and  God  bless  us  all  to  look  more  earnestly  and 
prayerfully  and  sincerely  upon  the  sacredness  of  home  and  the  mar- 
riage covenant,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Clark: 

The  choir  will  now  sing,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, with  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ,  the  "Hallelujah  Chor- 
us" (from  "The  Messiah"),  by  Handel. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Stanley  A.  Ras- 
mussen,  of  the  Mount  Jordan  Stake,  after  which  this  Conference  will 
be  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon.  We  will  meet  here  in  the 
Tabernacle,  not  in  the  Assembly  Hall.  The  afternoon  session  will  be 
broadcast  over  KSL,  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  KSUB  at  Cedar  City. 


The  Choir  sang  "Hallelujah  Chorus,"  after  which  the  benedic- 
tion was  pronounced  by  Elder  Stanley  A.  Rasmussen,  President  of 
the  Mount  Jordan  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.m. 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Third  Day 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of.  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Taber- 
nacle at  2  p.m.,  Sunday,  April  8,  1945. 

President  Clark: 

This  is  the  seventh  and  closing  session  of  the  1 1 5th  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon,  all  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  as  sustained  Thursday,  except  President 
Grant  who,  on  a  special  wire  running  to  his  home,  is  able  to  listen  to 
the  Conference  proceedings. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  KSUB  at  Cedar  City. 

We  will  be,gin  the  afternoon  services  by  the  Congregation  sing- 
ing: "High  on  the  Mountain  Top,"  Song  Folder  No.  10.  Brother 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  conduct  the  singing;  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper 
is  at  the  organ. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Will  L.  Hoyt  of 
the  Juab  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 
Elder  Will  L.  Hoyt,  President  of  the  Juab  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

President  Clark: 

We  will  continue  by  the  Congregation  singing :  The  Lord  Is  My 
Shepherd,"  Song  Folder  No.  34,  after  which  President  Howard  Mc- 
Donald, the  newly  chosen  President  of  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity at  Provo,  will  address  us. 

We  have  a  very  full  program  this  afternoon,  brethren,  which  will 
account  for  the  brevity  of  the  speeches  of  those  who  talk  to  us. 


The  congregation  sang,  "The  Lord  Is  My  Shepherd." 

ELDER  HOWARD  McDONALD 

President  of  Brigham  Young  University 

My  Brethren :  it  is  with  a  feeling  of  great  honor  that  I  stand  be- 
fore you  this  afternoon.  It  is  also  with  a  feeling  of  humility,  as  I  feel 
keenly  the  great  responsibility  that' has  been  placed  upon  my  shoul- 
ders in  being  President  of  the  Brigham  Young  University,  and  I  pray 


ELDER  HOWARD  McDONALD 


147 


that  my  Heavenly  Father  will  bless  me  in  this  position,  that  I  may 
carry  forward  the  great  work  of  that  institution  as  my  Father  in  heav- 
en would  have  it  carried  on. 

I  have  somewhat  the  feeling  which  has  been  expressed  by  some 
of  the  good  brethren  when  they  have  stood  in  this  position  in  confer- 
ences past.  I  remember  Brother  Lee,  Brother  Kimball,  Brother  Ben- 
son, Brother  Mark  Petersen,  how  they  felt  when  a  great  responsibility 
was  put  upon  them.  I,  just  in  a  small  measure,  feel  that  same  feeling 
going  through  myself.  For  the  past  two  weeks  it  has  been  a  great 
dream.  It  has  hardly  got  past  the  dream  stage,  but  every  day  it  is 
becoming  more  a  reality. 

When  the  First  Presidency  called  me  to  the  office  and  asked  me 
if  I  would  consider  such  a  position  I  told  them  it  took  my  feet  from 
under  me,  and  they  said,  "You  are  not  the  first  one  whose  feet  have 
been  taken  from  under  him  in  this  room."  I  asked  them  if  I  might  go 
home  and  talk  it  over  with  my  wife.  We  were  both  floored,  as  you 
might  say,  and  after  a  few  minutes  of  contemplation  and  serious 
thought  Mrs.  McDonald  turned  to  me  and  said,  "Howard,  we  have 
been  married  for  twenty-eight  years  and  I  have  said  more  than  once 
I  knew  you  were  going  to  drive  me  to  Provo."  (Laughter) 

Since  the  First  Presidency  and  the  authorities  of  the  Church  have 
asked  me  to  carry  on  this  great  work  I  feel  that  I  can,  with  the  bless- 
ings of  my  Heavenly  Father,  as  I  have  always  felt  that  without  his 
aid  I  would  be  able  to  do  nothing. 


ours,  I  asked  my  Heavenly  Father  to  bless  me,  and  I  believe  he  did. 
When  the  authorities  of  that  school  system  called  me  into  the  position 
of  vice-principal  of  the  largest  High  School  in  San  Francisco,  I  again 
continued  to  pray  that  God  would  help  me,  and  he  did.  When  I  was 
asked  by  the  superintendent  to  be  deputy  superintendent  in  charge  of 
teaching  personnel  I  asked  my  Heavenly  Father  to  bless  me,  and  he 
did.  When  I  was  called  back  to  Salt  Lake  City  as  superintendent 
of  Salt  Lake  City  Schools,  I  asked  God  to  bless  me  in  that  position, 
and  if  we  have  met  with  any  success  this  past  year  it  isn't  the  efforts 
of  myself,  but  of  my  Father  in  heaven  who  has  blessed  me. 

When  I  was  called  upon  by  Brother  George  F.  Richards  to  be 
President  of  the  Stake  in  San  Francisco  I  asked  my  Father  to  bless 
me  then,  and  I  believe  he  did;  and  if  the  Presidency  of  this  Churchy 
those  in  authority,  want  me  to  go  to  the  Brigham  Young  University  as ' 
the  president,  if  they  will  send  me  with  their  blessings,  and  if  God  will 
go  with  me,  I  believe  we  can  carry  on  that  great  work  as  you  people 
would  want  it  carried  on.  We  want  to  promote  in  that  institution  the 
traditions  of  the  founder  of  that  great  institution,  Brigham  Young. 
What  were  his  standards?  I  think  if  he  were  laying  the  foundation 
and  stood  here  today  he  would  say  to  me,  "We  want  established  in 
that  institution  principles  wherein  the  boys  and  girls,  the  young  men 
and  young  women  who  enter  that  institution,  will  have  faith  in  God, 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Third  Dag 

that  they  will  be  nurtured  in  the  faith  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  World,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God  and  that  the  leaders  of  this  Church  from 
the  Prophet  Joseph  to  the  present,  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  have 
been  prophets  and  seers  of  the  living  God.  As  you  presidents  of 
stakes  and  you  bishops  of  wards  go  back  into  your  stakes  and  your 
wards  I  hope  you  will  carry  this  message  with  you,  as  the  young  men 
and  young  women  will  be  coming  to  you  for  advice.  Where  shall  we 
go  for  our  education?  I  want  you  to  know  what  my  philisophy  of  life 
and  education  are,  that  you  might  know  that  those  boys  and  girls  who 
come  under  the  jurisdiction  of  that  institution  will  be  well  cared  for. 

I  also  want  to  say,  so  all  the  world  may  know,  that  we  want  teach- 
ers, professors  in  that  institution,  who  have  faith  in  God,  faith  in  a  liv- 
ing God,  a  personal  God,  and  who  have  faith  in  the  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  they  may  carry  to  the  boys  and  the  girls, 
the  young  men  and  women  that  same  faith. 

Horace  Mann,  that  great  educator,  gave  a  definition  of  what  a 
teacher  should  be.    He  said, 

"A  young  man  or  a  young  woman  whose  education  is  sound, 
whose  language  is  well  selected,  whose  pronunciation  and  tones  of 
voice  are  correct  and  attractive,  whose  manners  are  gentle  and  re- 
fined, whose  topics  of  conversattion  are  always  elevating  and  con- 
structive, whose  dignity  of  heart  maintains  acts  of  civility,  courtesy 
and  kindness,  who  carries  with  him  an  unnamed  charm  into  whatever 
circle  he  goes, — that  should  be  the  teacher  of.  every  school." 

I  would  add  to  that,  to  all  of  those  qualifications  for  those  who 
teach  in  the  Brigham  Young  University,  not  only  should  they  have 
those  qualifications  but  they  should  have  the  qualification  of  faith 
in  God,  and  in  the  divinity  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

Time  will  not  permit  to  go  further,  but  I  feel  like  William  Ly- 
ons Phelps  when  he  said,  "I  cannot  explain  to  another  the  joy  and 
the  happiness  I  get  out  of  teaching.  It  is  more  than  a  profession,  an 
occupation,  a  vocation,  a  struggle;  it  is  a  passion,  for  I  love  to  teach." 
He  said,  "I  love  to  teach  as  a  painter  loves  to  paint,  as  a  singer  loves 
to  sing,  and  as  a  musician  loves  to  play.  Every  strong  man  loves  to 
run  a  race." 

Never  in  all  the  world  has  there  been  a  greater  time  to  be  a 
teacher  than  at  the  present  time,  in  this  twentieth  century.  With  all 
these  problems  before  us  today  we  have  the  greatest  opportunity  to 
be  a  teacher,  and  I  want  our  teachers  to  be  lovers  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  sit  in  the  company  of  men  who  have 
professed  that  they  are  Latter-day  Saints,  coming  to  the  Bay  area 
with  the  groups  of  educators.  They  didn't  happen  to  know  that  I 
belonged  to  the  Church,  and  they  thought  that  they  had  to  be  in 
with  the  rest  of  the  world  to  make  a  showing.  At  the  dinner  table 
they  would  partake  of  their  cocktails  and  their  coffee.  Oh,  my  heart 
bled  for  them.    Oh,  what  a  mistake  if  you  think  you  have  to  go  out 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM  149 


into  the  world  and  partake  of  those  things  that  the  world  partakes  of 
— you  don't,  because  those  very  men  with  whom  they  were  eating 
came  to  me  afterwards  and  said,  "Well,  we  thought  they  were  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,"  and  I  would  have  to  make  excuses.  I  have  never 
found  in  all  my  life  a  greater  asset  than  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
The  people  throughout  the  United  States  have  known  where  I  stood 
and  the  belief  which  I  possess,  and  may  God  bless  me  in  this  work 
that  is  now  upon  my  shoulders,  that  I  may  carry  that  belief  and  make 
it  a  part  of  the  Brigham  Young  University,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  humbly  pray  that  I  may  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 
Just  a  word  of  appreciation  for  the  life  of  Samuel  O.  Bennion  and 
Rufus  K.  Hardy.  These  last  few  days,  as  I  have  seen  the  pictures 
taken  from  the  walls,  the  spears  of  New  Zealand  chiefs,  finally  the 
flag  of  Maori  land,  New  Zealand,  from  Brother  Hardy's  room,  and 
like  treasures  of  Brother  Bennion's,  I  felt  in  my  heart  that  something 
had  gone  out  of  my  own  life.  These  were  great  and  good  men.  God 
bless  their  sacred  memory. 

Because  of  my  work  for  so  many  years  in  the  auxiliaries  of  the 
Church  I  want  to  pay  tribute  to  a  lovely  lady,  a  lovely  sister  in  this 
Church,  who  has  just  resigned  from  her  office  as  president  of  the 
Relief  Society,  Amy  Brown  Lyman,  a  line  efficient  leader,  a  woman 
of  clear  vision  and  clear  mind,  of  great  courage  and  service  for  the 
kingdom  of  God.  May  the  Lord  bless  her  as  she  continues  in  her 
lovely  life. 

Missionary  Work  In  the  Stakes 

I  want  to  thank  you  brethren  here  today  for  what  you  have 
done  for  the  cause  that  we  as  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  rep- 
resent. Last  year  we  had  approximately  twenty-nine  hundred  mis- 
sionaries in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  We  baptized  twenty-three  hun- 
dred. Since  this  work  was  assigned  to  the  First  Council  of  the  Sev- 
enty in  1 936,  there  have  been  approximately  seventeen  thousand 
souls  that  have  been  baptized  and  made  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  thank  you  brethren  for  your 
fine  cooperation  and  leadership  in  this  work.  I  have  thought,  as  I 
attended  these  sessions  of  this  conference,  what  a  glorious  thing  it 
would  be  if  you  would  just  give  us  one  more  missionary  from  each 
ward  for  the  stake  missions  of  the  Church,  that  every  ward  that  is 
represented  would  just  carry  back  in  their  hearts  that  one  obliga- 
tion. What  a  blessing  it  would  be,  and  what  blessings  it  would 
bring  to  the  people! 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Third  Day 

In  connection  with  our  missionary  work,  recently,  I  read  these 
words  from  President  Lorenzo  Snow:  "There  is  a  way  to  every 
human  heart,  and  the  Lord  will  show  you  that  way  if  you  will  be 
humble,  prayerful,  and  study  his  holy  word." 

How  simple,  but  how  great  and  far-reaching  in  its  meaning! 
One  of  our  greatest  tasks  is  the  task  of  meeting  men,  understanding 
them,  placing  them  right,  that  their  lives  may  unfold  in  strength  and 
beauty  and  joy  to  themselves.  This  admonition  may  be  applied  in 
many  different  ways. 

Only  a  moment  ago  I  was  listening  to  news  over  the  radio.  God 
bless  the  men  who.  meet  in  San  Francisco  April  25.  God  bless  the 
President  of  the  United  States  and  the  Secretary  of  State  of  our  great 
nation.  God  bless  the  delegation  that  represents  our  great  country 
at  the  San  Francisco  conference.  No  such  year  has  ever  come  to  us 
as  1 945,  fraught  with  the  things  of  destiny.  May  God  be  with  them. 
May  they  be  humble.  May  they  be  prayerful.  May  they  study  his 
holy  word,  that  the  destiny  of  humanity  on  this  good  earth  of  ours  may 
be  made  safe  and  beautiful. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  abundantly  for  the  work  that 
I  feel  is  just  ahead.  The  great  missionary  work  that  is  coming  to  us 
— I  feel  confident  in  my  own  thinking,  in  my  own  praying  that  God 
has  a  great  work  before  us  to  perform  in  our  missionary  service. 

Recently  I  was  asked  to  the  home  of  a  friend,  the  dean  of.  one  of 
the  largest  universities  in  the  United  States.  I  was  somewhat  sur- 
prised at  the  invitation,  but  after  we  had  finished  the  meal  we  were 
sitting  in  the  parlor  and  he  said,  "Mr.  Kirkham,  it  may  be  of  great 
interest  for  you  to  know  that  the  real  reason  I  had  in  inviting  you  here 
was  not  so  much  personal  as  it  was  for  what  you  represent.  Not  long 
ago  I  walked  down  the  streets  of  Boston,  and  I  saw  a  young  man 
standing  on  the  curb.  He  had  his  companion  out  in  front  of  him 
seemingly  to  draw  passersby  to  listen  to  him.  I  was  so  struck  by  the 
picture  that  I  stepped  back  in  the  shadow  of  a  building  and  listened. 
What  he  said  was  very  interesting  to  me.  His  English  was  not  the 
best.  I  saw  he  paused  and  hesitated  in  his  effort  to  voice  what  was 
on  his  heart,  but  finally  said,  'Friends,  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to 
you  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God  and  that  through  him 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was  restored,'  and  in  a  humble  way  he  con- 
tinued, "Well,"  said  my  friend  to  me,  "Kirkham,  I've  never  quite  got 
that  off  my  heart.  That  testimony  rang  deep  within  my  own  soul,  and 
I  wanted  to  talk  it  over  with  you,  so  I  invited  you  here." 

Yes,  there  are  thousands  and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  men  and 
women  to  whom  God  is  saying,  "Search  for  the  truth.  Have  the  cour- 
age when  you  hear  it  to  accept  it." 

May  the  Lord  grant  to  us  humility,  a  prayerful  heart,  and  a 
desire  to  study  his  holy  word,  that  we  may  be  prepared  for  the  des- 
tiny that  awaits  us,  that  we  may  magnify  the  callings  which  are  ours 
before  our  Heavenly  Father,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON  151 

ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

First  Counselor  In  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

If  I  remember  correctly,  I  followed  Brother  Kirkham  last  con- 
ference, and  as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  I  will  be  glad  to  follow  him 
any  time,  and  yes,  follow  in  his  footsteps  all  the  way.  I  am  not  like 
the  gentleman  who  had  a  wife  like  the  wife  that  Brother  Thomas  E. 
McKay  spoke  about  in  conference.  He  didn't  want  her  nagging  at 
him.  He  wanted  her  away  from  the  battle  so  he  could  fight  in  peace. 
He  had  a  wife  who  thought  she  was  better  than  he.  Before  she  died, 
she  had  put  on  her  tombstone,  "Follow  me."  You  see,  she  wanted 
him  to  land  in  the  celestial  realms  she  was  dead  sure  of.  He  wasn't 
quite  satisfied  with  the  epitaph  as  it  was,  so  he  finished  it.  It  then 
read,  "To  follow  thee  I'm  not  content,  until  I  know  which  way  you 
went." 

The  Work  With  the  Boys  of  the  Church 

Oscar  Kirkham  has  done  a  wonderful  work  in  this  Church  and 
particularly  with  boys.  If  I  could  follow  him  all  the  way,  I  would 
be  very  content.  I  had  the  pleasure  of  riding  down  to  conference  in 
the  automobile  this  morning  with  Elder  Merrill.  We  were  talking 
about  some  of  the  observations  he  made  with  boys  in  this  conference. 
He  was  very  kind  to  us,  I  thought,  and  by  virtue  of  his  observations 
in  the  conversation  this  morning,  I  am  spurred  on  to  say  some  of  the 
things  I  am  going  to  try  to  say  this  afternoon.  I  told  him  I  couldn't 
say  what  I  wanted  to  say  at  our  Aaronic  Priesthood  meeting,  be- 
cause if  I  went  into  too  much  detail  the  bishop  and  his  counselors  of 
a  certain  ward  would  be  sure  to  guess  about  whom  I  was  talking, 
and  I  have  so  much  to  answer  for  now  that  I  wouldn't  be  that  brave. 
Brother  Merrill  said,  "Surely,  you  don't  mean  to  say  that  'tyranny' 
towards  boys  exists  today."  When  I  told  him  the  whole  story,  he 
could  hardly  believe  it.  The  trouble  with  many  of  the  fine  things 
we  hear  is  that  they  always  mean  the  other  fellow.  We  don't  "Stop, 
Look,  and  Listen."  That  sign  on  some  of  your  farms  says,  "This 
means  you."  Some  of  these  observations  I  am  trying  to  make  do 
mean  you  and  me. 

Like  Brother  Merrill,  I  had  another  talk  I  wanted  to  give  this 
afternoon,  but  I  am  throwing  it  away.  To  hear  me  tell  it,  my  very 
best  talks  I  have  never  given.  Of  course,  that  isn't  hard  to  believe, 
and  such  news  is  comforting. 

Someone  has  said  the  reason  the  boy  likes  a  dog  is  because  it 
is  the  only  thing  around  the  ranch  that  doesn't  criticize  him.  When 
he's  around,  he's  a  pain  in  the  neck.  Yes,  but  if  you  had  the  ex- 
perience of  some  of  the  rest  of  us,  when  he  isn't  around,  it's  a  pain 
in  the  heart.  Stay  with  him.  I  saw  one  of  the  finest  demonstra- 
tions of  love  for  a  boy  in  Yellowstone  Stake.  The  story  is  about 
President  Hess  of  that  stake,  and  I  am  going  into  some  detail: 


1 52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  8  Third  Day 

Stories  About  Boys 

-  ' 

I  was  attending  a  big  banquet  in  St.  Anthony,  about  six  hundred 
strong,  the  select  of  the  land.  All  the  fathers  of  the  stake  were  there 
sitting  beside  their  sons.  Yes,  they  hired  the  biggest  hall  in  the 
place.  Some  of  us  were  sitting  at  the  head  table.  I  discovered  about 
three  chairs  from  where  I  was  sitting  something  that  decidedly  in- 
terested me.  It  was  a  half-kept  kid.  The  back  of  his  head  looked 
like  the  back  of  a  dog.  What  I'm  trying  to  say  is  that  he'd  been 
neglected.  I  went  on  without  asking  any  questions,  and  yet  I  got 
curious.  After  the  party  was  over  I  inquired  as  to  who  the  lad  was. 
Here  is  the  story  I  got:  Coming  down  the  highway  from  his  home 
President  Hess  was  accosted  by  a  shabbily  dressed  lad.  The  boy 
was  invited  to  get  in  the  car.  He  asked,  "Where  are  you  going,  mis- 
ter?" The  answer  was,  "I'm  going  to  a  party  for  fathers  and  their 
sons."  The  boy  was  a  real  Yankee.  He  said,  "Where  is  your 
boy?"  "I  haven't  him  with  me  tonight,"  came  the  answer  of  the 
president.  "Well,  say,  mister,  why  can't  I  be  your  son  tonight?" 
Well,  the  end  of  the  story  is,  that  urchin  sat  at  the  head  of  the  table 
as  big  as  you  please  with  the  rest  of  us.  Brethren,  that's  America. 
That's  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  You  never 
can  tell  what's  under  that  mat  of  shaggy  hair.  You  can  never  tell 
what  heart  beats  buttoned  up  in  that  threadbare  coat.  Let's  love 
him. 

Did  you  ever  hear  the  story  of  the  lad  in  the  slums  and  his  little 
sister  who'  desperately  took  sick?  There  had  to  be  a  transfusion. 
( We'll  go  through  the  story  in  a  hurry. )  They  thought  her  broth- 
er's blood  would  match.  They  tried  it  out,  and  it  "clicked."  When 
asked  to  give  his  blood  for  his  sister,  he  said,  "Sure."  When  they 
cleaned  his  arm,  its  whiteness,  with  the  dirt  off,  nearly  scared  him  to 
death.  Well,  they  took  a  pint  of  his  blood.  An  hour  after  the 
pumping  procedure  he  was  told  that  his  sister  had  revived  and  was 
getting  along  fine.  But  what  was  the  question  the  kid  of  the  slums 
asked?  It  was,  "Doc,  when  do  I  croak?  When  do  I  croak?"  He 
thought  when  he  was  asked  to  give  his  blood  to  his  sister  that  it 
meant  he  was  to  give  his  life  for  his  sister.  I  repeat,  "Will  you 
give  your  blood  to  your  sister?"  "Sure."  That  was  the  answer 
from  an  American  lad  of  the  slums. 

Christ  said  that  no  man  is  greater  than  he  who  gives  his  life 
for  his  fellows.  Sometimes  virtue  is  put  up  in  clumsy  parcels,  but 
underneath  often  you've  got  gold. 

A  Teacher's  Experience 

Talk  the  boy's  language.  Be  reasonably  firm.  Don't  let  him  run 
over  you.   No  boy  loves  you  if  you  let  him  run  over  you. 

I  once  heard  a  very  interesting  story  about  the  boys  of  a  certain 
school  district  years  ago  in  a  backwoods  country.  They  rode  every 
teacher  out  of  the  village.    The  school  trustees  didn't  know  what  to 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BRO  WN  1 53 

do  about  it.  As  fast  as  a  new  teacher  came  he  was  ridden  out.  Finally, 
one  of  the  trustees  said,  "I  have  a  fellow  that  can  take  care  of  this 
school."  They  cried  out,  "Trot  him  out.  Send  him  here."  The 
teacher  got  to  the  school  Monday  morning  at  eight-thirty  and  brought 
with  him  his  six-shooter.  (I  remind  you  that  this  was  a  school  in  a 
wild  country. )  Well,  a  hawk  floated  overhead,  flying  a  little  low. 
He  was  circling  around,  and  he  was  a  real  temptation.  The  new 
teacher  pulled  out  the  six-shooter,  pulled  the  trigger  twice,  and  the 
hawk  fell  at  his  feet.  Of  course,  the  school  population  gathered 
around  this  crack  shot.  He  observed,  "That  wasn't  so  bad,  was 
it?"  Well,  he  next  went  into  the  schoolroom.  He  noticed  the  black- 
board wasn't  kept  so  spick  and  span,  that  a  bull's-eye  on  the  board 
with  a  couple  of  holes  in  it  would  not  do  any  particular  harm.  He 
stepped  off  a  few  steps,  took  the  six-shooter,  pulled  the  trigger  a 
couple  of  times  more,  hitting  the  bull's-eye  squarely,  and  said, 
"That  wasn't  so  bad,  was  it?" 

Well,  he  was  talking  their  language.  But  he  wasn't  through 
yet.  He  pulled  out  his  watch.  "It's  time  to  ring  the  bell."  He  picked 
the  leader  of  the  gang,  the  one  that  had  done  the  most  in  the  past  in 
running  former  teachers  out  of  their  country.  He  requested,  "Ring 
the  bell."  The  fellow  stepped  back  with  his  fingers  in  his  vest  and 
replied,  "Ring  it  yourself."  Out  came  the  six-shooter.  It  pointed  at 
the  bully.    "Ring  the  bell."    He  did. 

Now,  I  didn't  say  that  if  you  want  to  lead  a  bunch  of  boys  take 
a  six-shooter  with  you.  I  didn't  mean  that.  But  talk  their  language 
and  have  them  mind. 

Praise  for  Stake  Leaders 

God  bless  you  fine  men.  To  repeat  again,  as  we  go  around  your 
stakes  and  see  what  you  are  doing,  if  we  were  to  give  way  to  our 
feelings  we  would  sit  down  and  cry  like  babies  at  your  accomplish- 
ing great  things.  You  are  doing  a  fine  job.  I  don't  know  what 
some  of  us  do  for  you  in  the  way  of  inspiration  when  we  stand  be- 
fore you,  but  I  know  what  inspiration  we  get  from  you  in  holding 
your  hands  and  looking  into  your  eyes.  God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

President  of  British  Mission  and  Church  Coordinator 
for  Service  Men 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  am  very  grateful  for  the  unexpected 
privilege  of  attending  this  great  conference.  I  am  proud  to  be  the 
messenger  to  bring  love  and  greetings  from  the  saints  of  the  British 
mission,  the  people  who  have  endured  so  much  during  the  last  five 
years  of  war.  These  people  have  seen  their  homes,  villages,  towns 
and  cities  destroyed,  but  have  carried  on  in  the  face  of  difficulties 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  8  Third  Day 

which  might  have  discouraged  most  of  us.  I  say  I  am  proud  to  rep- 
resent them  here  today,  and  I  feel  that  their  faith  and  their  courage, 
their  loyalty  and  fortitude  stand  out  as  an  ensign  to  the  Church.  I 
am  sure,  too,  that  the  members  of  the  other  missions  of  Europe  when 
their  story  can  be  told,  will  be  found  to  have  done  the  same  kind  of 
work  and  exhibited  the  same  faith  and  courage.  We  will  be  glad  to 
call  them  brothers  and  sisters. 

The  work  over  there,  during  the  war  period,  has  been  under 
the  able  direction  of  President  Anastasiou.  He  and  his  associates 
have  done  an  outstanding  job  during  the  time  that  missionaries  from 
here  were  not  permitted  to  go  there  and,  as  I  think,  in  recognition  of 
his  fine  service,  the  Lord  has  opened  the  way  for  him  to  come  to  Zion 
with  his  family.  So  from  the  saints  of  Britain,  we  bring  greetings, 
love  and  blessings. 

I  am  very  glad,  too,  to  bring  a  very  brief  report  concerning  the 
work  which  has  been  and  is  being  done  by  your  sons  and  brothers. 
It  has  been  my  privilege  to  meet  thousands  of  them.  We  have  met 
them  in  the  villages,  in  the  towns  and  cities  of  Britain.  We  have  met 
them  in  the  branches  and  districts  and  at  the  mission  home.  We  have 
seen  some  of  them  in  the  hospitals  and  many  of  them  in  their  camps. 
We  have  seen  them  as  they  went  out  on  their  dangerous  missions, 
and  we  have  seen  them  as  they  came  back.  We  have  heard  their  stirring 
testimonies  and  have  been  inspired  with  the  enthusiasm  that  seemed 
to  characterize  their  work.  We  have  heard  them  talk  of  home,  and 
pray  for  their  loved  ones.  We  have  heard  them  pray  for  the  authori- 
ties of  the  Church,  for  the  leaders  of  the  nation.  I  would  like  to  say 
to  you  brothers  and  sisters,  you  have  reason  to  be  proud  of  these  fine 
young  fellows.  We  have  met  them  in  the  woods,  out  under  impro- 
vised shelters,  in  the  cold  and  the  rain  of  that  unconquerable  climate 
of  England,  and  under  those  conditions  we  have  felt  a  warmth  and 
a  comfort  that  sometimes  are  missing  under  conditions  that  ought  to 
be  more  favorable.  We  have  met  these  men,  as  I  say,  under  these 
conditions  and  have  labored  with  them,  and  nothing  in  my  experi- 
ence has  tended  more  to  cement  my  faith  in  God  and  in  the  fact  of 
the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  than  to  see  that  Gospel 
in  action  in  the  lives  of  these  men.  We  hear  from  them  from  Arabia 
and  Serbia,  from  Egypt  and  the  Holy  Land,  from  Africa,  India,  from 
Burma  and  China,  from  the  Philippines,  the  Aleutians  and  the  many 
islands  of  the  Pacific.  We  hear  from  them  from  all  over  the  conti- 
nental United  States  and  in  her  far-flung  outposts.  We  hear  from 
them  on  those  floating  islands,  our  great  navy,  and  in  all  of  these 
places,  these  men  are  meeting  as  regularly  as  conditions  will  permit. 
They  are  singing  the  songs  that  you  sing,  and  they  are  praying  to 
God  and  expressing  gratitude  to  him  for  home  and  for  loved  ones 
and  Church. 

Yesterday  I  got  a  letter  from  Iwo  Jima,  that  blood-soaked 
island  which  has  just  been  conquered,  and  one  of  our  own  boys  who 
took  part  in  it  said  that  he  and  a  group  of  Latter-day  Saint  men  had 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


155 


met  on  the  beach  there  and  with  uncovered  heads  had  administered 
the  sacrament  to  one  another  and  thanked  God  for  their  deliverance. 
Then  he  added  as  a  postscript  to  his  letter,  "Please  tell  President 
Grant  that  we  out  here  are  praying  for  him."  Can  you  match  that 
for  love  and  loyalty  and  devotion  to  a  cause? 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  these  men  are  coming  home  shortly, 
thousands  of  them.  There  are  enough  men  out  there,  of  this  Church, 
to  fill  this  building  to  overflowing  ten  times,  and  they  are  coming 
back.  We  hope  we  will  get  some  vision  of  the  responsibility  and 
task  which  confronts  us  as  we  are  called  upon  to  meet  them,  to  greet 
them,  and  to  help  them. 

These  men  will  not  be  the  same  boys  as  you  saw  go  out.  These 
men  have  gone  out  into  conditions  which  many  of  us  know  not  of. 
These  men  have  had  responsibility.  They  have  traveled  in  far 
places.  They  have  been  flying  these  great  ships  with  millions  of 
dollars  worth  of  cargo.  They  have  had  the  lives  of  their  fellows  in 
their  care.  They  have  had  to  make  decisions  upon  which  the  lives 
of  thousands  depended.  These  men  have  been  seasoned,  and  they 
are  coming  home  mature.  Some  of  them  will  come  home  wounded 
in  their  bodies,  having  lost  limbs,  eye-sight,  or  hearing.  These  will 
be  ministered  to  by  the  best  that  science  can  provide,  and  the  govern- 
ment will  do  everything  possible  for  them,  but  there  are  others  who 
will  come  home  with  unseen  wounds,  and  they  will  need  help,  too. 
We  who  have  remained  in  the  harbor  must  learn  to  understand 
something  of  the  problems  confronting  these  men  who  went  out  on 
the  high  seas.  No  sailor  who  does  not  sail  his  ship  out  into  the  seas 
will  ever  criticize  the  one  who  does,  even  though  he  comes  back  with 
the  sails  of  his  ship  tattered,  the  hull  dented  and  the  mast  broken. 
They  will  not  criticize  him  because  they  know  what  he  has  gone 
through. 

I  pray  that  God  will  help  us  to  understand  something  of  what 
these  men  have  been  enduring,  and  by  the  help  of  him  who  gave  his 
life  on  the  cross  for  the  wounded  and  the  sick  and  the  weary  and 
the  heavy  laden,  by  the  help  of  his  spirit  may  we  attack  this  great 
problem  of  the  rehabilitation  of  our  men.  I  would  like  to  express 
and  send  to  these  men,  through  you  parents  who  are  listening  in, 
this  comforting  message:  The  General  Authorities  under  the  First 
Presidency  are  making  plans  now  and  setting  up  an  organization 
and  program  so  that  we  may  supplemet  the  great  rehabilitation  pro- 
gram of  our  nation.  Provision  is  being  made  to  meet  these  men  and 
to  help  them  become  reestablished. 

I  pray  that  God  will  help  them  and  us,  that  we  may  do  our 
part  to  uphold  the  standards  of  the  Church  and  that  they,  upon  re- 
turning, will  bring  to  the  problem  of  reconstruction  the  same  faith 
and  courage  and  hope  which  have  inspired  them  while  they  have 
been  away.  I  said  they  have  often  spoken  of  home.  Someone  has 
written  just  a  line,  a  prayer  which  could  have  been  spoken  by  one 
of  them  and  has  doubtless  been  thought  by  many.    It  is  as  follows: 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  8  Third  Day 

0  God,  I  did  not  come  out  to  this  war 
From  a  park  bench  or  a  rented  room, 

1  came  from  home. 

And  I  brought  with  me  family  words: 
Garden,  crib,  fireplace,  front  door, 
Wife,  Little  fellow. 

Now  they  are  all  mixed  up  with  war  jargon: 

Jeep,  tank,  foxhole,  tommygun,  blitz. 

Help  me,  God,  to  keep  my  thinking  straight. 

Grant  the  impossible.    Make  home,  our  home, 

Seem  real — in  battle. 

Show  me  how  to  sort  out  my  thoughts 

And  use  the  words  about  home, 

Even  when  I'm  sitting  in  a  swamp, 

Hours  at  a  time,  not  daring  to  move 

More  than  my  eyes.   They'll  keep  me  sane. 

I'll  be  a  better  human.   And  just  now 

When  fighting  is  my  job, 

I  want  to  stay  human. 

It  didn't  take  a  war  to  show  me  how  I  love 

My  home.   But  it  has  taken  a  war  to  show  me 

How  it  will  feel  to  walk  out  of  Hell 

Straight  to  a  paradise  that  men  call  home. 

O  God,  let  ours  rest  under  the  shadow  of  your  hand! 

Amen. 

God  grant  that  in  our  homes  and  in  our  communities  provision 
may  be  made  for  these  returning  thousands  of  our  boys,  that  they  may 
uphold  here  at  home  as  they  have  out  there  in  the  main  the  standards 
of  the  Church.  I  bear  witness  to  its  truth,  to  the  divinity  of  this 
work.  I  bear  witness  to  the  fact  that  these  men  who  are  our  leaders 
are  inspired  of  God,  I  pray  that  under  their  direction  we  may  be  able 
to  carry  out  this  splendid  program  for  the  rehabilitation  of  our  serv- 
ice men,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer 
Lives,"  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  290,  Hymn  Book  No.  145. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

- 

This  is  great  company.  I  wish  to  thank  my  Father  in  heaven 
for  the  incomparable  privilege  of  being  a  little  part  of  it. 

As  I  have  listened  to  this  conference,  beginning  with  the  mes- 
sage of  the  Lord's  prophet,  and  have  felt  the  cumulative  power  of 
the  succeeding  testimonies  and  admonitions,  I  have  been  increas- 
ingly aware  that  if  I  am  to  make  any  contribution  at  all  it  must  be 
with  the  help  of  my  Father  in  heaven,  for  which  I  pray,  and  I  ask  you 
to  join  me  in  that  prayer. 


PA  TRIARCH  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH  1 57 

■ 

A  Fervent  Testimony 

I  wish  to  record  before  this  present  congregation  and  before  the 
unseen  audience  my  emphatic  witness,  without  hint  of  reservation, 
that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  the  Christ,  is  the  anointed  One  of  Israel, 
the  very  Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  he  rose  from  the  tomb  in  a 
literal  resurrection  which,  by  the  Christian  world,  is  not  believed, 
in  spite  of  its  flaunted  celebration  of  Easter.  I  wish  further  to  rec- 
ord that  because  of  the  wickedness  of  men  the  gospel  was  taken  from 
the  earth  and  that  in  this  dispensation  was  restored,  and  that  the 
priesthood  of  Almighty  God  was  restored  with  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery  as  instruments,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of 
the  Living  God  and  that  every  one  of  his  successors  is  also  a  prophet. 

A  Sermon  for  A  Soldier  Killed  In  Battle 

Not  long  ago,  some  weeks  ago,  I  received  a  letter  from  a  Ca- 
nadian boy  in  England.    He  said  in  part: 

Will  you  promise  to  do  something  for  me  when  and  if  you  manage 
to  get  to  Edmonton  this  summer?  Will  you  go  to  my  home  and  see  my 
mother  and  talk  about  me  a  little?  She  likes  me  a  lot,  and  she  likes  to  talk 
about  me  to  someone  else.  Since  you  may  be  in  Edmonton,  and  especially 
if  something  has  happened  to  me  by  that  time,  you  could  gratify  this  little 
trait  of  hers.    With  love,  Roy. 

And  just  a  month  ago  there  came  to  my  desk  in  the  tortured 
handwriting  of  a  grief-stricken  mother  this  letter: 

Mr.  Smith,  Roy  has  gone.    Please  will  you  say  a  sermon  for  him? 

Roy  was  not  a  member  of  the  Church.  He  was  a  boy  of  great 
talent,  a  boy  of  great  promise,  and  he  is  gone  as  thousands  of  others 
are  going,  killed  in  battle. 

What  sermon  shall  we  say  for  Roy,  together  with  the  thou- 
sands of  our  own  boys  and  the  tens  of  thousands  of  others  who  are 
his  companions  in  death?  Shall  we  extol  his  virtues  and  praise  his 
talents  or  shall  we  berate  our  enemies  and  castigate  the  war  lords? 
Neither  panegyric  nor  denunciation  will  give  to  the  world  the  pic- 
tures Roy  might  have  painted,  nor  the  sons  he  might  have  reared. 
What  shall  we  say?  Shall  we  not  plead  for  conduct  which  will  rem- 
edy the  evil?  What  one  of  us,  having  selected  a  reputable  physician 
and  called  him  in  to  diagnose  and  administer  to  Our  ills  but  will  follow 
his  instruction?  I  marvel  at  the  faith  men  put  in  doctors.  We  will 
literally  lap  up  any  nostrum  which  a  physician  in  whom  we  have  faith 
prescribes,  without  asking  what  it  contains  or  what  it  may  do.  Oh, 
that  people  had  a  fraction  of  the  faith  in  the  words  of  the  prophets 
that  they  have  in  their  physicians!  We  seek  to  avoid  medical  quacks. 
How  much  more  important  that  we  avoid  spiritual  quacks.  We  need 
in  these  days  of  a  sick  world  the  treatment  prescribed  by  the  Great 
Physician.  We  have  his  diagnosis,  and  we  have  it  constantly  reiter- 
ated by  the  Lord's  prophets. 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Third  Day 

Appeal  of  First  Presidency 

Five  and  one-half  years  ago  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church 
said  this: 

We  affirm  that  all  international  controversies  may  be  settled  by  speci- 
fic means  if  nations  will  but  deal  unselfishly  and  righteously  with  one  an- 
another.  We  appeal  to  the  leaders  of  all  nations  and  to  the  people  them- 
selves that  they  mend  and  adjust  their  differences  lest  the  vials  of  God's 
wrath  be  poured  out  upon  the  earth,  for  he  has  said  he  will  visit  his  wrath 
upon  the  wicked  without  measure.  We  further  declare  that  God  is  grieved 
by  war  and  that  he  will  hold  subject  to  the  eternal  punishment  of  his  will 
those  who  wage  it  unrighteously. 

We  are  but  beginning  to  see  how  prophetic  that  utterance  was. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  faith  in  the  physician  because  experi- 
ence has  taught  us  that  very  frequently  his  prescriptions  are  helpful. 
We  have  learned  to  leave  things  alone,  sometimes,  when  we  find  they 
are  doing  us  unquestionable  hurt.  When  are  we  going  to  learn  the 
lessons  of  history?  The  scriptures  are  replete  with  the  experiences 
of.  people  who  have  rejected  the  prophets.  In  this  conference  ref- 
erence has  been  made  to  many  of  them,  and  there  will  be  those  fool- 
ish persons  who  will  say,  "Well,  that's  Bible  stuff.  I  don't  quite 
believe  the  Bible."  If  men  can't  believe  the  Bible,  will  they  study 
their  secular  history  and  find  the  reasons  for  the  dissolution  and  de- 
struction of  the  great  civilizations  of  the  world — Tyre  and  Sidon, 
Babylon,  Nineveh,  Egypt  and  Greece,  Carthage  and  Rome — yes, 
and  today  the  great  part  of  modern  Europe?  And  can  the  United 
States  of  America  be  far  behind?  I  say  unto  you,  "Nay,  unless  the 
United  States  of  America  give  heed  to  the  prescription  of  the  Great 
Physician." 

Failure  To  Heed  the  Words  of  the  Prophets 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  forthcoming  conference  in  San 
Francisco.  It  is  becoming  increasingly  the  cynosure,  with  all  eyes 
turning  toward  it,  with  great  hope.  Will  it  fail?  It  will  fail  unless 
it  is  based  upon  the  precepts  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  and  I  have  seen 
only  two  pronouncements  by  men  in  high  places  who  have  had  the 
courage  to  declare  this  fact. 

A  few  years  ago  I  had  the  great  privilege  of  driving  President 
Grant  from  Madison,  Wisconsin,  to  a  speaking  appointment,  and 
as  we  drove  he  said,  and  I  have  rarely  seen  President  Grant  in  sad- 
der mood:  "I  wish  the  Latter-day  Saint  people  would  be  obedient." 
That  called  to  mind  a  remark  that  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  made 
before  some  members  of  his  family.  He  said,  "I  wish  I  could  tell 
this  people  some  of  the  things  I  know,"  and  one  of  his  sons  said, 
"Papa,  why  don't  you?"  He  replied,  "I  have  tried  and  I  can't,  for 
the  people  are  not  ready  to  hear  it."  That  calls  further  to  mind  those 
tragic  words  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  betrayed  by  some  of  his 


ELDER  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS 


'  159 


own,  "If  my  life  is  of  no  use  to  my  friends,  it  is  of  no  use  to  me,"  and 
those  other  great  words  of  the  Master  himself: 

O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that  killest  the  prophets,  and  stonest 
them  which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  chil- 
dren together,  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  and 
ye  would  not!  Behold,  your  house  is  left  unto  you  desolate.  For  I  say 
unto  you,  ye  shall  not  see  me  henceforth  till  ye  shall  say,  .  .  .  Blessed  is  he 
that  cometh  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  (Matt.  23:37-39.) 


Brethren  and  sisters,  Latter-day  Saints,  listen  to  the  counsel 
of  the  Lord.  What  matter  if  we  be  but  few?  If  every  man  at  this 
conference,  if  every  Latter-day  Saint  listening  to  this  conference, 
would  go  out  and  see  to  it  that  he  made  of  himself  a  center  from 
which  went  out  the  testimony  of  the  truth,  we  could  accomplish 
miracles.  Let  no  Latter-day  Saint,  who  has  raised  his  hand  to  sus- 
tain the  prophets  of  the  Lord,  permit  himself  ever  to  depart  from  that 
instruction.  Let  him  challenge  any  faultfinding  and  let  him  cham- 
pion the  truth. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  any  Latter-day  Saint  having  covenanted 
as  a  Latter-day  Saint  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  and  then 
who  refuses  to  follow  the  counsel  of  the  Lord's  prophets  is  bringing 
bricks  and  mortar  for  the  erection  of  those  altars  of  unrighteousness 
upon  which  other  millions  of  Roys  will  be  sacrificed.  Let  us  remem- 
ber it. 

God  give  us  courage,  give  us  vision  and  above  all  give  us  faith, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

Brethren,  it  is  good  to  be  here  to  share  with  you  the  inspiration 
and  teachings  of  this  conference.  We  have  heard  enough  already, 
that  if  we  can  just  remember  half  of  what  we  have  heard  and  take 
it  back  to  our  stakes  and  wards,  they  will  be  enriched  because  of 
these  conference  sessions. 

Preparation  for  the  Return  of  the  Soldiers 

A  great  deal  has  been  said  during  the  conference,  and  at  the 
present  time  much  is  said  and  written,  about  postwar  conditions  and 
our  responsibilities.  In  my  work  in  the  Church  with  the  young  peo- 
ple, particularly  the  boys  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  I  feel  that  there 
are  some  things  to  which  we  can  well  give  thought  along  this  line, 
for  the  Church  will  have  to  remember  that  our  boys  will  be  coming 
home,  anticipating  a  g*reat  deal  from  us.  We  have  had  many  letters 
from  boys  who  are  in  the  service,  in  answer  to  some  of  the  articles 
that  have  been  written  and  published  in  the  Church  Section  of  The 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Third  Day 


Deseret  News  and  in  The  Imporvement  Era  by  our  girls,  on  the 
value  of  priesthood  to  young  womanhood.  Usually  the  boys  close 
with  words  something  like  this:  "It  is  wonderful  to  know  that 
there  are  such  girls  to  come  home  to,"  and  then  they  tell  us  of  the 
kind  of  girls  they  have  met  while  they  have  been  away. 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  M.I.A.  organizations  will  have  a  great- 
er responsibility  than  they  have  ever  had  before,  because  these  boys 
will  expect  more  through  having  been  away,  and  many  of  our  girls 
have  been  waiting  patiently,  faithfully,  and  adhering  to  the  teach- 
ings of  the  Church,  waiting  until  these  boys  do  return  home.  I  hope 
there  will  be  due  consideration  given  them,  for  I  am  not  unmindful 
of  the  fact  that  we  owe  so  very  much  to  them.  They  have  offered 
their  lives  and  all  they  have  for  us,  and  we  ought  to  do  all  we  can 
to  make  their  homecoming  pleasant  and  welcome. 

I  was  very  happy  while  in  California,  a  few  years  ago,  in  listen- 
ing to  a  radio  broadcast  by  a  minister  of  the  gospel,  to  know  that 
this  Church  has  what  he  indicated  the  world  needs  today.  He  said, 
"What  we  need  today  is  a  church  for  the  youth  of  the  land.  We 
have  been  preaching  to  the  old  folks  and  letting  the  young  people 
go  to  the  devil."  Now  I  am  grateful  that  we  have  in  the  Church  a 
program  for  the  youth  of  the  land,  that  our  boys  and  girls  are  being 
taught  the  gospel  and  inspired  with  the  spirit  of  it,  that  they  are 
being  entertained  and  kept  together  in  a  splendid  way.  There  is 
nothing  else  like  it  in  all  the  world. 

■ 

Impressions  Made  On  Prominent  Men 

Some  years  ago  the  agent  of  the  Holland-America  Steamship 
line  from  Rotterdam,  a  Mr.  Herschfeld,  came  here  on  a  visit.  I  had 
met  him  in  Holland.  He  had  a  letter  of  introduction  to  President 
Grant  from  the  mission  president,  and  President  Grant  invited  me  to 
the  office  because  I  could  talk  Dutch,  and  turned  Mr.  Herschfeld 
over  to  me  to  entertain.  When  evening  came,  I  said,  "Mr.  Hersch- 
feld, where  would  you  like  to  go?  I  can  take  you  to  a  show,  or  I 
will  take  you  for  a  ride  around  the  valley,  but  if  you  would  like  to 
see  Mormonism  in  action  I  will  take  you  to  a  Mormon  bazaar."  He 
said,  "I  would  surely  like  to  see  Mormonism  in  action."  So  we  went 
down  to  the  old  Granite  Stake  Tabernacle,  on  State  Street  and 
Thirty-third  South.  I  introduced  him  to  many  of  the  Hollanders 
who  were  there,  and  he  spent  money  freely.  He  was  thrilled  with 
what  he  saw.  We  went  upstairs  to  an  operetta  that  was  beautiful, 
and  then  I  said,  as  they  announced  the  dance  downstairs,  "Probably 
you  have  had  enough.  I  shall  be  glad  to  take  you  back  to  the  hotel." 
He  said,  "Mr.  Richards,  couldn't  I  see  the  dance?"  "Yes,"  I  said, 
"if  you  would  like  to."  We  went  down  to  the  dance  hall,  and,  on 
our  way  back  to  the  hotel,  he  said,  "You  could  not  have  made  me 
believe  that  I  could  ever  see  a  group  of  hundreds  of  young  people 
such  as  I  have  seen  here  tonight,  dancing  together  with  no  evidence 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


161 


of  any  evil  thought  or  anything  of  that  kind."  He  said,  "Mr.  Rich- 
ards, if  I  were  a  young  man  I  surely  would  cast  my  lot  with  the  Mor- 
mon people."  Then  he  went  on  to  indicate  that  his  daughter  was 
the  wife  of  a  professor,  and  his  son  was  a  doctor,  and  he  said,  "You 
know  what  they  think  of  the  Mormons  in  Holland." 

When  we  were  in  Los  Angeles,  we  had  a  beautiful  party  in  the 
Hollywood  Stake  tabernacle,  given  by  the  Deseret  Club.  Mr.  Evans, 
who  was  in  charge  of  all  the  Church  groups  on  the  campus  at  the 
college,  was  there.  I  spent  considerable  time  with  him,  and  he  said, 
"Mr.  Richards,  I  wish  all  the  ministers  in  Los  Angeles  could  see 
what  I  can  see  here  tonight."  _ 

Now,  brethren,  I  often  felt  while  in  the  South,  that  if  television 
ever  developed  to  the  point  that  the  radio  has,  what  a  marvelous 
thing  it  would  be  to  be  able  to  set  some  of  these  parties  with  our 
young  people  out  where  the  world  could  see  them. 

Praise  for  the  Youth  Program 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  leadership  of  the  Church  in  this  youth 
program  for  holding  our  boys  and  girls  together  under  clean  and 
wholesome  recreation,  and  I  trust  when  restrictions  are  lifted  that 
there  will  be  increased  attention  given  to  this  program  here  at  home, 
such  as  it  deserves.  I  would  like  to  admonish  the  bishops  not  to  be 
too  stingy  with  the  Mutual  officers  whom  they  expect  to  carry  on 
this  activity  program.  Don't  tell  them  there  is  no  money  in  the 
budget.  Go  out  and  get  the  money  if  it  is  necessary.  These  boys 
and  girls  of  ours  are  worth  more  than  our  money,  and  they  are  en- 
titled to  the  kind  of  leadership  this  Church  is  prepared  to  give.  You 
can  requisition  the  finest  talent  living  within  your  wards  and  stakes, 
and  you  don't  have  to  pay  for  it.  No  one  else  can  do  that,  so  there 
is  no  excuse  for  not  having  the  finest  parties  possible.  Then  I  think 
we  ought  to  make  sure  that  we  maintain  our  standards.  No  boy 
ought  ever  to  enter  one  of  our  recreation  halls  and  mingle  with  our 
young  women  with  the  smell  of  liquor  on  his  breath,  or  a  bottle  of 
liquor  on  his  person.  The  Lord  expects  us  to  guard  and  protect  the 
lives  and  honor  of  our  girls,  and  such  men  are  in  no  fit  condition  to 
associate  with  them. 

.    Missionary  Experiences 

Now,  I  would  like  to  leave  one  other  thought  with  you  today. 
You  have  heard  a  marvelous  address  during  this  conference,  by 
Brother  Benson,  on  missionary  work.  You  brethren  will  realize 
that  because  of  the  war  many  of  our  boys  will  be  deprived  of  the 
privilege  of  going  on  missions.  Some  of  them  will  feel  that  the  years 
they  have  spent  in  the  service  will  have  to  take  the  place  of  their 
missions,  but  we  have  a  new  generation  of  boys  coming  along,  the 
boys  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  of  this  Church,  and  I  truly  hope  that 


162  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Third  Day 


every  bishop  and  every  father  and  mother  will  see  to  it  that  these 
boys  grow  to  manhood  with  a  desire  to  fill  a  mission  for  the  Church. 
It  is  not  only  a  great  responsibility  that  the  Lord  has  placed  upon 
the  Church,  to  see  that  the  gospel  is  preached  in  all  the  world  for  a 
witness  unto  all  nations,  but  the  great  missionary  system  of  this 
Church  does  more  for  the  membership  of  the  Church  individually 
and  collectively  than  any  other  activity  of  the  Church,  in  my  judg- 
ment. When  I  was  a  boy,  I  desired  with  all  my  heart  to  go  on  a 
mission.  I  remember  two  returned  missionaries  reporting  their  mis- 
sions in  the  little  country  town  where  I  was  reared  as  a  boy,  and  as 
I  have  said  many  times,  if  they  did  not  do  unusually  well  that  night, 
the  Lord  did  something  for  me,  because  when  I  went  home,  mere  boy 
that  I  was,  I  got  down  on  my  knees  and  asked  the  Lord  to  help  me 
to  be  worthy  to  go  on  a  mission  when  I  was  old  enough.  When  the 
train  finally  left  the  station  here  in  Salt  Lake,  and  I  bade  farewell 
to  my  parents,  I  told  them  it  was  the  happiest  moment  of  my  life. 
There  were  many  tears  shed  upon  that  occasion,  but  there  were  a 
great  many  more  tears  shed  in  little  old  Holland  when  I  left  there  to 
return  home  nearly  three  years  later.  When  we  were  set  apart  for 
our  missions,  President  Anthon  H.  Lund  made  a  statement  to  us 
boys  I  will  never  forget.  He  said,  "Brethren,  the  people  will  love 
you  when  you  go  into  the  mission  field.  Now,"  he  said,  "don't  get 
lifted  up  in  the  pride  of  your  hearts  and  -think  they  love  you  because 
of  who  you  are.  They  will  love  you  because  of  what  you  are.  You 
are  servants  of  the  Lord.  You  are  clbthed  with  his  Holy  Priesthood 
and  that  is  what  the  people  will  love."  I  did  not  realize  fully  the 
meaning  of  those  words  until  I  went  to  bid  farewell  to  the  Saints  in 
Holland.  One  little  mother,  whose  daughter  came  to  America  only 
a  few  weeks  before,  said,  "Brother  Richards,  it  was  hard  to  see  my 
daughter  leave,  but  it  is  much  harder  to  see  you  go."  A  brother  old 
enough  to  be  my  own  father,  knelt  down  and  kissed  my  hand  an  af- 
fectionate good-bye.  As  I  closed  my  ministry,  I  shed  tears  all  the 
way  traveling  from  Amsterdam  to  Rotterdam,  as  I  thought  of  how 
marvelously  the  Lord  had  sustained  and  blessed  me,  and  what  that 
mission  meant  to  me. 

Then  President  Lund  made  another  statement  I  could  not  help 
thinking  of  today  when  we  heard  Brother  Kirkham  telling  about  the 
boy  on  the  street  corner  in  Boston  bearing  his  testimony.  President 
Lund  said,  "Boys,  if  you  ever  lack  for  words  to  speak  when  you  are 
called  upon,  just  arise  and  testify  that  you  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  Prophet  of  God  and  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true,  and  I  prom- 
ise you  that  you  shall  not  want  for  words  to  speak."  There  isn't 
time  to  tell  you  how  literally  that  was  fulfilled.  I  remember  one  large 
conference  held  in  Rotterdam  where  we  had  about  fifteen  hundred 
people  present.  Some  of  the  leaders  of  the  town  came  with  their 
stovepipe  hats  and  walking  canes,  and  the  mission  president  had 
promised  me  if  I  would  take  the  minutes — I  was  secretary  of  the  mis- 
sion—he would  not  call  on  me  to  speak.    Well,  President  Grant 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


163 


happened  to  be  on  the  stand  and  he  said,  "Call  Brother  Richards 
next,"  and  so  I  spoke  unexpectedly.  Now,  I  want  to  bear  testimony 
to  you  here  this  day  that  the  words  of  President  Lund  came  to  my 
mind,  and  I  walked  up  to  the  pulpit  and  bore  testimony  to  the  res- 
toration of  the  gospel,  and  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  The  Lord  did  something  for  me  that  day;  he  lifted  me  up 
until  I  felt  that  the  floor  could  have  passed  from  under  my  feet,  and 
I' would  still  have  been  there  preaching  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Later,  when  some  of  our  people  were  .baptized  and  I  hap- 
pened to  be  in  that  baptismal  service,  they  told  me  that  my  talk  that 
night,  which  I  knew  came  from  the  Lord,  was  the  thing  that  started 
them  on  the  way  to  investigate  the  gospel. 

Future  Missionaries 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters — there  are  sisters  on  the  air— I 
know  of  nothing  in  this  world  that  can  do  for  your  boys  and  girls 
what  a  mission  can.  Jesus  said,  "And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou 
hast  sent"  (John  17:3);  and  there  is  no  way  I  know  of  in  the  world 
where  men  can  learn  to  know  God  as  they  can  in  the  mission  field. 
I  have  heard  President  Grant  say  that  the  experience  of  his  life  that 
he  regarded  as  richer  to  him  than  any  other  in  his  Church  work  was 
the  time  he  spent  in  Great  Britain  as  a  missionary. 

I  would  like  to  recommend  to  the  bishops  this  thought,  that  every 
boy  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  who  lives  worthy  to  go  on  a  mission, 
be  interviewed  by  the  bishop,  for  a  mission  call  initiates  with  the 
bishop.  Do  not  attempt  to  be  the  judge  whether  he  is  financially 
able  to  go  or  not  until  you  have  interviewed  him  in  the  presence  of 
his  parents.  I  have  tried  that.  I  remember  in  one  home  we  did  not 
think  they  could  possibly  send  their  boy.  We  told  the  mother — 
the  father  was  not  a  member  of  the  Church — all  we  knew  was  we 
would  be  proud  to  have  their  boy  represent  our  ward  in  the  mission 
field,  but  we  did  not  know  whether  they  had  any  rich  uncles  or 
aunts,  or  grandparents  that  could  help  or  not,  and  the  mother  said, 
"Bishop,  if  you  will  call  my  boy  on  a  mission  I  will  see  that  he  gets 
the  money  if  I  have  to  work  every  day  he  is  gone  to  provide  it."  Now, 
brothers  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  if  we  promote  this  spirit,  keep  it  alive 
in  the  hearts  of  our  people  it  should  not  be  difficult  at  all  for  us  to 
have  one  percent  of  our  ward  population  in  the  mission  field.  We 
proved  this  could  be  done  in  two  wards  where  I  had  the  privilege 
of  presiding.  We  have  some  ten  to  fifteen  percent  in  the  armed 
forces.  The  boys  will  bless  you  forever  for  the  privilege  that  comes 
to  them;  and  if  they  cannot  go  they  will  be  stronger  Latter-day 
Saints,  proud  of  the  fact  that  their  bishop  had  interviewed  them  and 
given  them  an  opportunity  to  go. 

God  bless  us  to  do  all  we  can  for  our  boys,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


164  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  Argil  8  Third  Day 

President  Clark: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  be  our 
concluding  speaker.  I  regret  very  much  the  time  is  so  far  spent  there 
is  so  little  left  for  you,  Brother  Lee,  but  we  will  ask  those  who  are 
listening  in,  and  we  ourselves,  to  listen  to  you  tonight  on  the  air,  and 
regard  that  as  a  part  of  this  Conference. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

When  one  is  called  as  the  last  speaker  at  the  end  of  the  seventh 
session  of  a  general  conference,  when  thirty-three  of  the  finest  minds 
in  the  Church  have  spoken,  he  isn't  concerned  about  what  he  may 
have  planned  to  speak,  but  he  is  concerned  only  about  saying  in 
those  few  minutes  allotted  him  what  his  Heavenly  Father  would  like 
to  have  him  say.    That  is  my  prayer  in  these  few  moments. 

The  Question  of  A  Dying  Woman 

I  heard  a  story  told  from  one  of  the  war  fronts  where  our  ad- 
vancing soldiers  were  going  into  the  land  of  a  people  who  were  flee- 
ing from  the  ruthless  enemy.  These  people  believed  in  and  wor- 
shiped, a  pagan  god.  As  the  conquering  army  made  up  of  the  allied 
nations  advanced  toward  the  stricken  town,  they  met  long  lines  of 
refugees  with  few  or  no  belongings,  fleeing  from  the  enemy.  The 
chaplain  was  called  to  administer  aid  to  an  old  lady  who  had  fallen, 
unable  to  go  farther.  She  was  in  her  dying  moments.  He  knelt  at 
her  side  to  administer  physical  and  spiritual  aid.  He  told  her  about 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  how  the  Savior  had  come  and  died  for  man- 
kind, how  he  came  as  the  Prince  of  Peace  and  how  he  ministered 
among  those  who  were  sick,  needy,  and  afflicted,  how  he  organized 
a  work  that  had  become  a  great  work.  This  work  had  gone  through- 
out the  world  under  the  banner  of  Christianity.  As  he  finished  his 
story  of  comfort,  as  he  thought,  to  this  dying  woman,  she  looked  up 
at  him  with  dying  eyes  and  asked,  "Where  have  you  Christians  been 
all  this  time?" 

Factors  In  Helping  Our  Boys  In  the  Service 

As  I  thought  of  that  question  I  thought  of.  a  visit  I  had  with  two 
of  our  Latter-day  Saint  marines  who  had  just  come  back  from  the 
terrible  fighting  over  Tarawa  and  others  of  the  islands  of  the  Pacific. 
They  had  found  themselves  through  all  these  trying  times  in  comp- 
any with  twenty-five  Latter-day  Saint  boys.  One  of  these  two  boys 
had  been  set  apart  by  Brother  Brown  as  the  M.I. A.  group  leader 
and  had  ministered  as  the  leader  and  the  father  of  the  group.  As 
he  told  me  about  these  boys,  he  said,  "We  kept  most  of  them  clean 
and  sweet,  but  there  are  some  of  them  that  have  slipped  away  from 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


165 


us.  They  have  taken  up  habits  that  have  not  been  good.  I  felt  it 
was  my  responsibility,  and  I  have  done  what  I  could  to  save  some 
of  them."  Then  I  asked  them  this  question,  "Tell  me,  you  two  who 
have  lived  among  these  boys,  what  is  the  reason  that  some  of  our 
boys  have  kept  themselves  straight  and  others  of  our  boys  have 
slipped  away  from  us?"  Let  me  tell  you  what  they  said  without  any 
hesitancy:  "The  boys  who  have  kept  themselves  clean  have  had 
regular  correspondence  with  their  wards  and  their  priesthood  quor- 
ums, and  the  boys  who  have  fallen  away  from  us  are  the  ones  who 
have  never  had  a  letter  from  their  priesthood  quorums  or  from  their 
ward  bishop."  As  I  heard  this  simple  testimony  to  the  Tightness  of 
the  instruction  that  you  heard  from  this  stand  when  this  war  had  only 
just  begun,  and  when  I  remembered  that  the  priesthood  of  Almighty 
God  was  the  power  given  by  him  to  more  than  two  hundred  thou- 
sand of  us  to  work  and  act  in  his  name  for  the  salvation  of  the  souls 
of  men — I  paraphrased  the  words  of  that  dying  old  pagan  woman, 
"Where  have  the  priesthood  quorums  been  all  this  time?"  I  am  hope- 
ful that  our  boys  won't  return  home  without  having  had  their  quo- 
rums make  some  contact  and  some  tie  to  which  they  can  come  when 
they  do  return. 

I  think  if  we  could  sum  up  the  feelings  of  our  boys  as  they  re- 
turn to  us  and  have  them  tell  us  what  it  was  that  kept  them  firm  and 
steadfast,  they  would  say  two  things:  First,  that  they  have  had 
an  interest  in  life,  and  second,  that  they  have  believed  there  was 
someone  at  home  who  was  concerned  about  them. 

I  listened  to  a  doctor  recently  who  said  that  the  medical  journals 
reported  that  the  boys  who  had  become  mentally  unbalanced  in  large 
majority,  were  the  boys  who  had  broken  homes,  whose  wives  or 
sweethearts  had  been  unfaithful  at  home. 

We  have  heard  much  in  this  conference  about  our  boys.  We 
have  heard  but  little  about  our  girls.  How  much  preparation  are 
you  making  for  the  girl  who  has  changed  during  this  trying  period? 
How  much  concerned  are  you  that  she  will  "come  home"?  And  I 
am  talking  to  the  ones  that  live  in  your  homes,  for  they,  too,  during 
this  period,  have  gone  through  a  most  difficult  time. 

Work  Being  Done  By  L.D.S.  Soldiers 

Shall  I  tell  you  what  the  boys  have  been  doing  among  them- 
selves to  keep  going  and  to  help  each  other  to  come  back  to  the  point 
of  sanity  and  rehabilitation  after  they  have  been  through  the  strug- 
gle of  war?  Perhaps  if  I  can  give  you  three  things  that  they  have 
told  us  repeatedly  maybe  you  bishops,  you  priesthood  quorum  presi- 
dents,, you  stake  presidents,  will  take  from  their  lessons,  something 
to  help  you  to  build  on  the  foundation  that  must  be  builded  upon  for 
their  salvation.  In  the  first  place,  we  don't  know  how  the  boys  are 
coming  back,  nor  what  they  will  truly  need.  We  are  sure  that  when 
they  come  back  they  will  be  a  little  bit  more  of  that  which  they  were 


166  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sandeg.  April  8  Third  Dag 

before  they  left.  If  they  loved  God  and  home  and  country  a  little 
before  they  went  away,  they  will  come  back  loving  God  still  more 
and  knowing  him  to  be  a  reality,  loving  home  more  and  with  more 
faith.  If  they  were  boastful  before  they  went  into  the  war,  they 
will  come  back  unbearable  braggarts.  If  they  were  inclined  to  im- 
morality when  they  left  us,  they  will  come  back  slimy  in  their  sin- 
ning, just  as  sure  as  we  are  here. 

This  is  what  they  have  done  in  their  own  little  groups  to  try 
to  help  stabilize  each  other:  In  the  first  place,  they  have  organized 
themselves  into  what  they  call  ward  teaching  groups.  At  Fort  Low- 
ry,  near  Denver,  down  at  Oak  Knoll  Hospital,  for  example,  where 
our  boys  are  coming  back,  they  are  sending  out  in  pairs  from  their 
groups,  those  who  are  faithful,  to  visit  the  boys  who  will  not  come 
to  their  meetings,  who  have  taken  up  habits  that  are  keeping  them 
out  of  sight.  They  talk  to  these  boys  and  ask  them,  "Are  you  moral- 
ly clean?  Are  you  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom?  Are  you  writing 
home  to  your  parents?  Are  you  true  to  your  priesthood?"  When  I 
asked  them,  "Isn't  that  pretty  plain  language  to  talk  to  these  boys," 
they  replied,  "But  how  are  we  going  to  help  these  boys  if  we  don't 
know  what  is  the  matter  with  them?" 

Are  you  as  courageous,  you  ward  teachers?  Do  you  really  want 
to  help?  Then  you  must  do  the  kind  of.  ward  teaching  that  the  Lord 
said  we  were  to  do,  if  you  are  to  help.  The  next  thing  they  do  is  to 
teach  the  gospel.  They  don't  preach  sermons  in  great  generalities. 
They  are  searching  into  the  scriptures.  During  these  last  few 
months,  when  I  have  had  a  somewhat  intimate  contact  with  the  youth 
of  the  Church,  I  have  found  that  they  are  hungry  for  the  teachings 
of  the  gospel,  and  they  tell  me  that  rarely  in  the  sacrament  meetings 
where  they  attend  do  they  hear  the  gospel  taught  to  the  members. 

Preparation  for  Return  Home  of  Soldiers 

Now,  if  you  want  to  help  these  boys  when  they  come  back,  may 
I  ask  that  you  do  like  my  little  bishop  friend  who  sits  here  on  the 
front  seat  who  came  as  a  convert  from  another  Church  and  who  is 
now  a  bishop  in  one  of  our  stakes?  He  says  to  speakers  who  come 
to  his  meetings,  "We "want  speakers  who  come  to  our  ward  to  preach 
the  gospel.  We  would  prefer  you  not  come  than  to  have  you  come 
and  not  preach  the  gospel  to  our  people."  May  I  urge  that  you  take 
a  leaf  out  of  his  book,  and  the  books  of  our  boys. 

The  third  thing  they  are  doing  is  to  make  sure  that  every  boy 
of  the  group  is  given  some  responsibility  in  their  group  organization. 
Does  that  suggest  anything  to  you?  When  these  boys  come  home, 
will  you  take  them  to  your  hearts  and  see  that  they  are  given  some- 
thing to  do,  some  activity  that  challenges  their  abilities  and  makes 
them  feel  they  are  a  part  of  their  Church  community  to  which  they 
want  to  belong,  as  quickly  and  as  rapidly  as  possible? 

God  help  us  to  understand  these  things  and  build  the  defense. 


! 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  1 67 


the  refuge  from  the  storm  that  the  Lord  said  a  stake  of  Zion  was 
expected  to  be,  where  before  his  judgments  would  descend  in  their 
mighty  power,  this  people  might  build  a  protection  from  those  storms 
of  adversity. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  so  to  do  I  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

<  ■  . 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  will  now  close  what  I  am  sure  all  of  us  will  agree  has  been 
one  of  our  great  conferences,  great  in  the  teachings  that  have  come 
to  us  and  great  in  the  high  spirituality  which  has  characterized  it.  We 
have  heard  much  that  we  should  remember  and  that  if  remembered 
and  put  into  practice  will  make  of  us  the  people  whom  God  designed 
that  we  should  be. 

I  will  close  with  reading  the  passage  read  by  Brother  Mark  E. 
Petersen  from  Joshua: 

And  if  it  seem  evil  unto  you  to  serve  the  Lord,  choose  you  this  day 
whom  ye  will  serve;  whether  the  gods  which  your  fathers  served  that  were 
on  the  other  side  of  the  flood,  or  the  gods  of  the  Amorites,  in  whose  land 
ye  dwell:  but  as  for  me  and  my  house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord. 

God  Grant  that  that  may  be  the  determination  not  only  of  us  who 
are  here  but  of  every  member  of  the  Church.  We  send  our  greetings 
to  President  Grant  and  ask  God  to  bless  him  with  his  choicest  bless- 
ings. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of 
Kings,"  L.D.S.  Hymns  No.  158,  Hymn  Book  No.  192. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  President  Thomas  O. 
Smith  of  the  North  Weber  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 

The  congregational  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor,  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  in  attendance  at  the  Sunday  morn- 
ing meeting  and  presented  musical  numbers.  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
Male  Chorus,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  rendered 
musical  numbers  at  the  Saturday  evening  meeting. 

The  music  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  and 
the  Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall; organ  presentations  and  organ  accompaniments  for  these 
broadcasts  were  played  by  Alexander  Schreiner;  The  Spoken  Word 
was  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 


168  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Third  Da^ 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Alexander  Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 

Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  O.  151 

The  work  with  the  boys  of  the  Church,  151 — Stories  about  boys, 
152 — A  teacher's  experience,  152 — Praise  for  stake  leaders,  153. 

Auditing  Committee  Report   27 

Authorities  and  officers  present   2 

Auxiliary  officers  sustained   14 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   ...105 


Obligations  resting  upon  the  Church,  105 — Missionary  responsibility, 
105 — A  personal  family  experience,  108;  Missionary  work  of  men  in 
the  armed  service,  108— -The  message  of  the  restoration  must  go  for- 
ward, 109 — The  preface  to  the  Lord's  commandments,  110. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E   35 

Portrayal  of  home  conditions  related  in  magazine  article,  35 — Exam- 
ination into  cause  of  delinquency,  36 — Christian  faith  the  root  of 
civilization,  38 — No  peace  except  upon  a  spiritual  basis,  38 — The 


gospel  the  foundation  of  peace,  40. 

Broadcast  of  Choir  and  Organ  126 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B  153 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A.   46 

Comfort  in  the  scriptures,  46 — Faith  in  the  promises  of  the  Lord,  46. 

Changes  in  Church  officers    15 

Changes  in  Wards  and  Stakes   15 

Church  Welfare  Committee  sustained    13 

Church  Welfare  Program  Report   21 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  134 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   25 

A  whispering  campaign  against  the  Welfare  Plan,  25 — Aid  of  all 
Church  members  needed,  26. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.    53 

The  golden  rule  a  safe  guide  for  mankind,  53 — God  will  pass  sentence 


upon  the  guilty,  53 — Planning  for  the  return  of  the  soldiers,  54 — 
The  responsibility  of  the  women,  55 — The  leaders  of  the  Church  in- 
spired of  God,  55. 


Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  2,  10,  11,  15,  34,  56,  57, 

82,  101,  103, 104,  115,  124,  125, 128, 139,  145,  146,  164,  167 
Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   79 

Good  government  and  good  men,  79 — Individuals  share  responsibility 

in  world  affairs,  79 — President  Brigham  Young's  view  of  leadership, 

81 — The  homecoming  of  the  soldiers,  81. 
Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.   127 

Talk  at  the  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast. 

Financial  Report    18 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   34 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

General  Authorities  present   1 

General  Authorities  sustained    11 

General  officers  of  the  Church  sustained   13 

General  Auxiliary  officers  sustained    14 


170  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.    4 

Joy  in  the  integrity  of  the  officers  of  the  Church,  4 — The  passing  of 
Elders  Samuel  O.  Bennion  and  Rufus  K.  Hardy,  4 — Concerning  tith- 
ing and  other  principles,  5 — Looking  after  our  youth,  6— To  our  young 
men  in  the  armed  forces,  6 — To  those  who  are  in  sorrow,  7 — Work, 
thrift  and  integrity,  8 — Responsibility  of  leadership,  8 — The  path  of 
duty,  the  path  of  safety,  9 — Closing  Testimony  10. 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R.   72 

Experience  in  seminary  work,  72 — Personal  testimonies,  74. 
Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R.   95 

The  comfort  a  testimony  gives,  96 — The  responsibility  of  leadership, 

96 — The  proper  watchcare  of  children  enjoined,  97. 
Kimball/  Elder  Spencer  W.      57 

The  advice  of  a  Brahman  to  a  mother,  57 — A  letter  written  to  a  sor-  • 

rowing  mother,  58. 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A.   149 

Missionary  work  in  the  stakes,  149. 
Lee,  Elder  Harold  B.   164 

The  question  of  a  dying  woman,  164 — Factors  in  helping  our  boys  in 
the  service,  164 — Work  being  done  by  L.  D.  S.  soldiers,  165 — Prep- 
aration for  return  home  of  soldiers,  166. 

McDonald,  Elder  Howard  .146 

McKay,  President  David  0  11,  15 

McKay,  President  David  O.  119 

The  meaning  of  the  parable  of  the  lost  sheep,  120 — True  success, 
120 — An  application  of  the  parable  of  the  lost  coin,  121 — Parable  of 
the  prodigal  son  applied  to  youth  of  today,  122 — The  way  to  true 
happiness,  123. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   140 

Sacredness  of  marriage  taught  by  Jesus,  140 — Dangers  threatening 
the  marriage  relation,  141 — Divorce  increasing  in  civil  and  church 
marriages,  142 — Divorce  rate  in  the  Church  and  in  the  United  States, 
143 — Security,  144 — How  to  lessen  the  breaking  up  of  homes,  144 
— Conclusion,  145. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E.    75 

Suggestions  for  postwar  planning,  75 — The  meaning  of  sportsman- 
ship, 77 — Greater  production  necessary,  77 — Reports  from  European 
Mission,  78. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.     Ill 

Effects  of  harshness  and  kindness,  111 — Free  agency  of  God-given 
principle,  112 — Bishops'  duties,  113 — Eternal  Progression,  113 — 
Service  brings  opportunity  and  responsibility.  114 — Satan's  power 
being  exercised,  114. 

New  Mission  Presidents   15 

New  Stakes  Organized   16 

New  Stake  Presidents   *   15 

New  Wards  Organized   16 

Obituaries   17 

Officers  sustained   11 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E.   41 

The  right  to  choose  given  to  mankind,  41 — Men  are  authorized  to 
carry  on  God's  work,  42 — Modern  authorities  on  same  basis,  43 
Disloyalty  to  authority  weakens  the  cause,  44. 


INDEX  171 
Richards,  Elder  George  F  129 

Covenants  entered  into  by  Church  members,  129 — Considering  the 

consequences  of  our  actions,  130 — Our  duty  to  our  dead,  132 — A 

testimony  of  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel,  133. 
Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand  159 

Preparation  for  the  return  of  the  soldiers,  159 — Impressions  made  on 

prominent  men,  160 — Praise  for  the  youth  program,  161 — Missionary 

experiences,  161 — Future  missionaries.  163. 
Richards,  Stephen  L   27 

Teachings  of  the  Church  set  forth  in  a  letter,  27. 
Romney,  Marion  G   86 

Doing  the  will  of  God  brings  peace,  86— The  yoke  of  Christ,  89— 
Living  prophets  as  guides,  89. 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting    82 

Second  Day,  Evening  Meeting  104 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   56 

Smith,  President  George  Albert  135 

God's  plan  in  the  creation,  135 — The  value  of  the  Bible,  136 — The 
warning  of  the  prophets,  1 36— Repentance  the  salvation  of  man- 
kind, 138. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   47 

Commandments  given  for  the  benefit  of  the  Church,  47 — The  saints 
admonished  to  produce  what  they  needed,  48 — Advice  from  leaders 
of  the  Church,  50. 

Smith,  Patriarch  Joseph  F  156 

A  fervent  testimony,  157 — A  sermon  for  a  soldier  killed  in  battle, 
157— Appeal  of  First  Presidency,  158— Failure  to  heed  words  of  the 
prophets,  158. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G.   61 

An  incident  about  Judge  Elias  A.  Smith.  61 — The  keeping  of  the 
Sabbath,  62 — Advice  from  Church  leaders,  63. 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma  101 

Accomplishments  of  the  Church,  102. 

Statistics   17 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    —  —   126 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H.   83 

Some  of  the  privileges  of  citizenship,  83 — Blessings  through  member- 
ship in  the  Church,  84 — Missionary  work  in  the  Church,  85 — Under- 
standing increased  through  study,  86. 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   146 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting  125 

West,  Elder  Franklin  L  115 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.    91 

An  echo  from  World  War,  92 — Solution  for  the  problems  of  the 
world,  92 — Responsibility  of  Church  members,  93 — Wholehearted 
service  required,  94 — A  lesson  from  the  story  of  Gideon,  94 — Sacrifice 
necessary,  95. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L   67 

Gratitude  for  blessings  of  the  gospel,  67 — Baptism  a  necessary  ordi- 
nance, 67 — Changes  made  through  apostasy,  69 — Promises  of  the 
restoration  fulfilled,  70. 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E.   51 

General  McAlexander's  view  of  war,  51 — The  gospel  a  help  under 
every  condition,  52. 


172  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    64 

Joseph  Smith's  first  vision,  64 — The  message  of  the  restoration,  65 — 
The  meaning  of  civilization,  65— Body  and  mind  closely  related,  66. 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth     99 

The  way  the  call  came,  99 — Personal  experiences,  99 — A  tribute  to 
Samuel  O.  Bennion.  100. 


■  . 


■ 


■  - . 


■ 


1 


:  .......  - 


DANIEL  MAIMER  WELLS 


As  the  polished  facets  of  a  diamond  flash  back  brilliantly 
the  rainbow  of  colors  from  the  light  which  plays  upon  them,  so 
do  certain  historic  characters  reflect  the  light  and  color  of  their 
times. 

Daniel  Hanmer  WeUs  was  one  of  these. 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley,  always  illuminating  and  inspirational, 
turns  the  spot  light  of  appraisal  and  appreciation  upon  a  dis- 
tinctive character  in  the  great  drama  of  Mormon  history. 

This  book  is  in  fact  a  new  approach  to  the  study  of  Church 
History.  It  offers  the  events  of  the  history  of  Mormonism  as 
one  of  the  principal  actors  saw  them  happen  and  as  he  acted 
in,  and  was  acted  upon  by  them. 

The  book  is  a  biography  and  more,  a  tribute  of  apprecia- 
tion and  more —  it  is  a  history  throbbing  with  the  pulse  beats 
of  great  personalities  as  they  struggle  through  one  crisis  after 
another. 

His  life  ran  the  long  span  which  included  actively  within 
it  labors  of  love  for  and  loyalty  to  every  man  who  has  been 
president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Daniel  H.  Wells  saw  it  all  happen:  The  rise  of  the  Church 
in  the  Middle  West;,  the  glory  of  Nauvoo;  the  catastrophe  of 
the  martyrdom;  the  pain,  travail,  and  power  of  pioneering;  the 
building  of  the  West;  the  crises  of  pre-statehood  days;  and 
the  long,  hard  pull  which  finally  established  the  Mormon  people 
on  the  heights  where  they  are  now  building. 

Published  privately  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  a 
tribute  to  the  loyal  friend  of  his  youth,  it  will  stand  as  a  welcome 
addition  to  the  faith-promoting  literature  of  the  Church. 


DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS 


DESEHET  BOOK  COMPANY 


TIME 


AND  EVENTS  OF 


HIS  TIME 


$2.50 


44  East  South  Temple  Street 


Salt  Lake  City  10.  Utah 


Enjoy  the  Fellowship  of  Great  Minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  BOOKS 

A  book  is  an  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illum- 
inating mind.  Consider  the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from 
spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of  these  books: 

Heber  J.  Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS  $2.25 

David  O.  McKay         ANCIENT  APOSTLES   1.00 

lames  E.  Talmage       JESUS  THE  CHRIST   2.00 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH   1.25 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTRDME   2.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith   ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY   2.00 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH    2.25 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH   2.50 

WAY  TO  PERFECTION   1.50 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES   1.25 

John  A.  Widtsoe         DM  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH   .50 

PRIESTHOOD  AND  CHURCH 
GOVERNMENT     1.75 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 
YOUNG   2.50 

George  D.  Pyper        STORIES  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINT 

HYMNS    1.50 

John  Henry  Evans       JOSEPH  SMITH,  AN  AMERICAN 

PROPHET   3.00 

Richard  L  Evans        UNTO  THE  HILLS   1.50 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS   1.50 

"and  THE  SPOKEN  WORD"   1.50 

These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available 
to  you  in  the  large  stock  of  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

Publishers  oi  Latter-Day  Saint  Literature 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 
THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST 


