Owl  diundhsud,  fckwsnih, 
ANNUAL 

COnFER€nCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

OfihiL  «,  5,  6,  mi 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

WE  PRESENT 

JhsL  fiooJc  jofL  QTlovnotL 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition  50c — by  moil  60c 

Cloth  Binding,  Embossed   1.50 

Full  Morocco   3.00 

jAojfL  filowhoif  to  fiAopAct 

AND 

yybihsJL  SioJusiA*  Jaouv  ihe  (Book  d£  Wjfwum. 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  that  children 
love  to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth  $1.25 

3(su^  to  Jhrnlaqsj. 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  warranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price   $1.00 

Presented  in  two  important  sets  and  recommended  to  you  as  a  vital  record. 

DOCUMENTARY  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
By  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
Presented  in  7  volumes 

COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Presented  in  6  volumes 
For  prices  and  other  information  we  urge  you  to  write  to  us. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY.  UTAH 


One  Hundred  Eleventh  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Eleventh  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  April  4,  5,  and  6,  1941. 

The  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity  at  every  session. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL  and  of  the  other  radio 
stations  cooperating,  the  proceedings  of  the  Conference  were  broadcast 
locally  and  also  over  KFXD  of  Nampa,  Idaho ;  KSEI  of  Pocatello, 
Idaho;  KTFI  of  Twin  Falls,  Idaho ;  KID  of  Idaho  Falls,  Idaho ;  KSUB 
of  Cedar  City,  Utah ;  and  KEUB  of  Price,  Utah.  Presidents  of  Stakes  in 
these  localities  arranged  meetings  in  various  of  their  Ward  meeting 
houses  where  Ward  and  Stake  congregations  could  hear  the  Conference. 
A  direct  wire  from  the  Tabernacle  to  the  Los  Angeles  Stake  Tabernacle, 
in  Los  Angeles,  California,  carried  the  service  to  that  area. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  at  all  of  the  sessions  of  the 
Conference  with  the  exception  of  the  Saturday  afternoon  meeting,  and 
presided.  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  conducted  all  the  general  sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
and  David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  George 
Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L 
Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill, 
Charles  A.  Callis,  Albert  E.  Bowen,  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  and  Harold 
B.  Lee.* 

Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Marion  G.  Rom- 
ney,  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,  Alma  Sonne,  and  Nicholas 
G.  Smith.** 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy :  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Levi  Edgar 
Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  Rul'us 
K.  Hardy,  and  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ashton, 
and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

*Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by  the  death  of 
Elder  Reed  Smoot. 

**These  five  brethren  were  sustained  as  Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  at  this  Conference. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  4  First  Day 

Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 
Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  High  Priests,  Seven- 
ties, General,  Stake  and  Ward  officers  of  the  Auxiliary  organizations, 
from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  John  H.  Taylor,  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah ;  Gustave  A.  Iverson,  Eastern  States ;  Leo  J.  Muir,  Northern 
States ;  George  F.  Richards,  Jr.,  North  Central  States ;  John  F.  Bowman, 
Central  States ;  W.  P.  Whitaker,  Southern  States ;  EIRay  L.  Christian- 
sen, Texas;  James  P.  Jensen,  East  Central  States;  William  W.  Seeg- 
miller,  Western  States;  Henry  H.  Blood,  California;  Nicholas  G.  Smith, 
Northwestern  States ;  David  A.  Smith,  Canada ;  A.  Lorenzo  Anderson, 
Mexico ;  David  F.  Haymore,  Spanish-American. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Friday  morning,  April 
4,  at  10  o'clock. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  hour  has  come  to  open  the  One  Hundred  and  Eleventh  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Presi- 
dent Heber  J.  Grant  is  present  and  presiding;  he  has  asked  President 
Clark  to  conduct  the  meeting. 

We  are  grateful  to  greet  this  great  audience  that  promises  to  crowd 
to  capacity  the  Tabernacle.  Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL 
and  other  Radio  Stations  cooperating  the  proceedings  of  this  Con- 
ference will  be  broadcast  over  KFXD  at  Nampa;  KSEI  at  Pocatello ; 
KTFI  at  Twin  Falls ;  KID  at  Idaho  Falls ;  KSUB  at  Cedar  City ;  and 
KEUB  at  Price.  The  Presidents  of  Stakes  in  these  localities  are  arrang- 
ing meetings  in  various  of  their  Ward  meeting  houses  where  Ward 
and  Stake  congregations  can  hear  the  Conference.  A  direct  wire  from 
the  Tabernacle  to  the  Los  Angeles  Stake  Tabernacle  in  Los  Angeles, 
California  will  bring  the  services  to  that  area. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  morning  President  Grant  and  his 
two  Counselors,  the  eleven  Apostles,  all  the  First  Presidents  of  Seven- 
ties, and  also  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  music  is  being  furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Chorus  and  members  of  the  Provo  duo  Stake  Choirs.  The  directors  are 
Doctors  Franklin  Madsen  and  Florence  Madsen ;  organist,  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  Mountain 
Top," — Words  by  Joel  H.  Johnson,  Music  by  Ebenezer  Beesley. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  offered  the  invo- 
cation. 

The  Choir  sang  "O  Come,  Let  Us  Worship" — Mendelssohn. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  are  more  grateful  than  we  can  say  that  President  Grant  is  here 
with  us,  as  already  announced,  and  he  will  now  address  us. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  a  source  of  great  satisfaction  to  me  to  meet  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  this  Conference. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  many  blessings  we  enjoy  as  a  people.  I  know 
the  Lord  is  mindful  of  us  and  will  be  to  an  even  greater  extent  if  we  but 
serve  Him. 

ADMONITION  TO  THE  SOLDIER  BOYS 

It  grieves  me  deeply  that  it  is  necessary  for  thousands  of  our  boys 
to  go  into  the  army.  I  hope  and  pray  that  they  will  go  out  with  the 
missionary  spirit,  maintain  their  ideals  and  come  back  to  us  as  sweet  and 
clean  as  when  they  went  away.  I  trust  that  it  will  be  possible  to  keep 
them  out  of  this  terrible  war.  You  parents  and  loved  ones  keep  as  close 
to  them  as  you  possibly  can. 

OFFICERS  AND  TEACHERS  MUST  SET  EXAMPLE 

I  have  made  this  statement  to  the  leadership  of  this  Church  at 
times  previous,  but  I  feel  to  repeat  it  again  at  this  time. 

"I  ask  every  man  and  woman  occupying  a  place  of  responsibility 
whose  duty  it  is  to  teach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  live  it  and  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  so  that  their  example  will  teach  it ;  and  if 
they  cannot  live  it,  we  will  go  on  loving  them,  we  will  go  on  putting  our 
arms  around  them,  we  will  go'  on  praying  for  them  that  they  may  become 
strong  enough  to  live  it.  But  unless  they  are  able  to  live  it  we  ask  them 
to  please  step  aside  so  that  those  who  are  living  it  can  teach  it.  No  man 
can  teach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Living 
God  and  with  power  from  on  high  unless  he  is  living  it.  He  can  go  on 
as  a  member  and  we  will  pray  for  him,  no  matter  how  many  years  it 
may  require,  and  we  will  never  put  a  block  in  his  way,  because  the 
Gospel  is  one  of  love  and  forgiveness,  but  we  want  true  men  and  women 
as  our  officers  in  the  Priesthood  and  in  the  Relief  Society." 

And  a  man  has  no  right  to  be  a  member  of  a  Stake  Presidency,  a 
member  of  a  High  Council,  a  member  of  a  Bishopric,  or  of  any  General 
Board,  who  cannot  stand  up  and  say  that  he  knows  the  Gospel  is  true 
and  is  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  to  His  people. 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  First  Day 

RESPONSIBILITY  IN  THE  CHURCH  BRINGS  HUMILITY 

At  this  time  I  feel  that  I  could  say  nothing  to  you  that  would  bet- 
ter portray  my  testimony  and  my  love  of  God  than  to  give  in  substance 
what  I  said  to  the  English  Saints  nearly  four  years  ago. 

"It  has  never  ceased  to  be  a  wonder  to  me  that  I  do  represent  the 
Lord  here  upon  the  earth.  My  association  from  childhood  with  the  re- 
markable and  wonderful  men  that  have  preceded  me  has  made  it  almost 
overwhelming  to  think  of  being  in  the  same  class  with  them. 

"The  last  words  uttered  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  were  to  the 
effect,  when  he  shook  hands  with  me — he  died  that  night — 'The  Lord 
bless  you,  my  boy,  the  Lord  bless  you ;  you  have  got  a  great  responsibility. 
Always  remember  this  is  the  Lord's  work  and  not  man's.  The  Lord  is 
greater  than  any  man.  He  knows  whom  he  wants  to  lead  His  Church, 
and  never  makes  any  mistake.    The  Lord  bless  you.' 

"I  have  felt  my  own  lack  of  ability.  In  fact  when  I  was  called  as 
one  of  the  Apostles  I  arose  to  my  feet  to  say  it  was  beyond  anything  I 
was  worthy  of,  and  as  I  was  rising  the  thought  came  to  me,  'You  know 
as  you  know  that  you  live  that  John  Taylor  is  a  prophet  of  God,  and 
to  decline  this  office  when  he  had  received  a  revelation  is  equivalent  to 
repudiating  the  Prophet.'  I  said,  T  will  accept  the  office  and  do  my 
best.'  I  remember  that  it  was  with  difficulty  that  I  took  my  seat  with- 
out fainting. 

EARLY  EXPERIENCE  AS  AN  APOSTLE 

"There  are  two  spirits  striving  with  us  always,  one  telling  us  to 
continue  our  labor  for  good,  and  one  telling  us  that  with  the  faults  and 
failings  of  our  nature  we  are  unworthy.  I  can  truthfully  say  that  from 
October,  1882,  until  February,  1883,  that  spirit  followed  me  day  and 
night  telling  me  that  I  was  unworthy  to  be  an  Apostle  of  the  Church, 
and  that  I  ought  to  resign.  When  I  would  testify  of  my  knowledge  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  the  Redeemer  of  man- 
kind, it  seemed  as  though  a  voice  would  say  to  me  :  'You  lie  !  You  lie ! 
You  have  never  seen  Him.' 

"While  on  the  Navajo  Indian  reservation  with  Brigham  Young, 
Jr.,  and  a  number  of  others,  six  or  eight,  on  horseback,  and  several  others 
in  'white  tops' — riding  along  with  Lot  Smith  at  the  rear  of  that  proces- 
sion, suddenly  the  road  veered  to  the  left  almost  straight,  but  there  was 
a  well  beaten  path  leading  ahead.  I  said :  'Stop,  Lot,  stop.  Where  does 
this  trail  lead?  There  are  plenty  of  foot  marks  and  plenty  of  horses' 
hoof  marks  here.'  He  said,  'It  leads  to  an  immense  gulley  just  a  short 
distance  ahead,  that  it  is  impossible  to  cross  with  a  wagon.  We  have 
made  a  regular  "Muleshoe"  of  miles  here  to  get  on  the  other  side  of  the 
gulley.' 

"I  had  visited  the  day  before  the  spot  where  a  Navajo  Indian  had 
asked  George  A.  Smith,  Jr.,  to  let  him  look  at  his  pistol.  George  A. 
handed  it  to  him,  and  the  Navajo  shot  him. 

"I  said,  'Lot,  is  there  any  danger  from  Indians  ?' 

"  'None  at  all.' 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


"  'I  want  to  be  all  alone.  Go  ahead  and  follow  the  crowd.'  I  first 
asked  him  if  I  allowed  the  animal  I  was  riding  to  walk  if  I  would  reach 
the  road  on  the  other  side  of  the  gulley  before  the  horsemen  and  the 
wagons,  and  he  said,  'Yes.' 

"As  I  was  riding  along  to  meet  them  on  the  other  side  I  seemed  to 
see,  and  I  seemed  to  hear,  what  to  me  is  one  of  the  most  real  things  in 
all  my  life,  I  seemed  to  see  a  Council  in  Heaven.  I  seemed  to  hear  the 
words  that  were  spoken.  I  listened  to  the  discussion  with  a  great  deal 
of  interest.  The  First  Presidency  and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
had  not  been  able  to  agree  on  two  men  to  fill  the  vacancies  in  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve.  There  had  been  a  vacancy  of  one  for  two  years,  and  a 
vacancy  of  two  for  one  year,  and  the  Conference  had  adjourned  with- 
out the  vacancies  being  filled.  In  this  Council  the  Savior  was  present, 
my  father  was  there,  and  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  there.  They 
discussed  the  question  that  a  mistake  had  been  made  in  not  filling  those 
two  vacancies  and  that  in  all  probability  it  would  be  another  six  months 
before  the  Quorum  would  be  completed,  and  they  discussed  as  to  whom 
they  wanted  to  occupy  those  positions,  and  decided  that  the  way  to 
remedy  the  mistake  that  had  been  made  in  not  filling  these  vacancies  was 
to  send  a  revelation.  It  was  given  to  me  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  my  father  mentioned  me  and  requested  that  I  be  called  to  that  posi- 
tion. I  sat  there  and  wept  for  joy.  It  was  given  to  me  that  I  had  done 
nothing  to  entitle  me  to  that  exalted  position,  except  that  I  had  lived  a 
clean,  sweet  life.  It  was  given  to  me  that  because  of  my  father  having 
practically  sacrificed  his  life  in  what  was  known  as  the  great  Reforma- 
tion, so  to  speak,  of  the  people  in  early  days,  having  been  practically  a 
martyr,  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  my  father  desired  me  to  have  that 
position,  and  it  was  because  of  their  faithful  labors  that  I  was  called, 
and  not  because  of  anything  I  had  done  of  myself  or  any  great  thing 
that  I  had  accomplished.  It  was  also  given  to  me  that  that  was  all  these 
men,  the  Prophet  and  my  father,  could  do  for  me;  from  that  day  it  de- 
pended upon  me  and  upon  me  alone  as  to  whether  I  made  a  success  of 
my  life  or  a  failure. 

RESPONSIBILITY  TO  MAKE  GOOD 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  Heaven  before  the  founda- 
tions of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated,  and  when 
we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon 
which  it  is  predicated. 

"It  was  given  to  me,  as  I  say,  that  it  now  depended  upon  me. 

"No  man  could  have  been  more  unhappy  than  I  was  from  October 
1882,  until  February,  1883,  but  from  that  day  I  have  never  been  bother- 
ed, night  or  day,  with  the  idea  that  I  was  not  worthy  to  stand  as  an 
Apostle,  and  I  have  not  been  worried  since  the  last  words  uttered  by 
Joseph  F.  Smith  to  me:  "The  Lord  bless  you,  my  boy,  the  Lord  bless 
you ;  you  have  got  a  great  responsibility.  Always  remember  this  is  the 
Lord's  work  and  not  man's.  The  Lord  is  greater  than  any  man.  He 
knows  whom  He  wants  to  lead  His  Church,  and  never  makes  any  mis.- 
take.   The  Lord  bless  you.' 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  4  First  Day 

"I  have  been  happy  during  the  twenty-two  years  that  it  has  fallen 
my  lot  to  stand  at  the  head  of  this  Church.  I  have  felt  the  inspiration  of 
the  Living  God  directing  me  in  my  labors.  From  the  day  that  I  chose  a 
comparative  stranger  to  be  one  of  the  Apostles,  instead  of  my  lifelong 
and  dearest  living  friend,  I  have  known  as  I  know  that  I  live,  that  I  am 
entitled  to  the  light  and  the  inspiration  and  the  guidance  of  God  in  di- 
recting His  work  here  upon  this  earth ;  and  I  know,  as  I  know  that  I  live, 
that  it  is  God's  work,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the  Living  God, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world  and  that  He  came  to  this  earth  with  a  divine 
mission  to  die  upon  the  cross  as  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  atoning  for 
the  sins  of  the  world. 

JOY  IN  PREACHING  THE  GOSPEL 

"  'As  in  Adam  all  die,  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive.'  I  have 
had  real,  genuine  joy;  I  have  had  joy  in  lifting  my  voice  in  England, 
Ireland,  Scotland  and  Wales,  Belgium,  Holland,  Switzerland,  Germany, 
France,  Italy,  Norway,  Sweden,  Denmark,  and  Czechoslovakia,  in  the 
Hawaiian  Islands  and  far-off  Japan,  in  Canada  on  the  north  and  Mexico 
on  the  south,  in  nearly  every  State  of  the  Union,  proclaiming  my  absolute 
knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living 
God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  Living  God,  and  that  the  men  who 
have  succeeded  him  in  presiding  over  this  Church  are  the  men  God 
desired  to  stand  in  that  position. 

"I  do  not  make  this  statement  because  of  any  desire  to  magnify 
myself — I  love  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  I  love  nothing  else  in  this 
world.  I  am  here  today  for  the  reason  that  I  desire  to  leave  here  my 
testimony  as  an  old  man — because  a  man  who  is  in  his  85th  year  is  an 
old  man.  ( 

WORK  OF  FORMER  PRESIDENTS  OF  CHURCH 

"John  Taylor  came  to  the  presidency  of  this  Church  succeeding 
Brigham  Young,  when  he  was  72  years  of  age.  Wilford  Woodruff 
came  to  the  presidency  of  this  Church  after  he  was  eighty-odd  years  of 
age,  and  he  lived  to  be  more  than  ninety.  Lorenzo  Snow  came  to  the 
presidency  of  this  Church  when  he  was  85  years  of  age,  and  served  it 
in  a  most  miraculous  and  wonderful  way  for  three  years.  Joseph  F.  ' 
Smith  came  to  the  presidency  of  this  Church  when  he  was  two  years 
beyond  the  time  of  retirement,  namely,  62  years  of  age,  and  he  served 
for  exactly  eighteen  years,  and  I  have  served  for  twenty-two  years.  It 
is  only  fair  to  you  to  say  that  I  never  for  one  minute  believed  that  he 
was  going  to  die,  until  the  night  he  passed  away  and  when  he  took  hold 
of  my  hand,  and  told  me  what  I  have  quoted  to  you.  I  felt  in  my  heart 
and  I  had  prayed  for  it ;  I  had  fasted  for  it ;  I  had  asked  for  it ;  that  he 
should  live  to  celebrate  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of  the  birth  of 
this  Church,  seeing  that  his  beloved  father,  the  Patriarch,  Hyrum  Smith, 
had  been  murdered  for  the  Cause ;  and  I  believed  that  he  would  so  live, 
.until  I  received  that  message,  which  was  the  last  message  he  spoke  to 
anybody. 


FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 


7 


"May  God  bless  me  and  you  and  every  soul  that  has  a  knowledge  of 
the  divinity  of  this  work,  to  so  live  it  that  our  lives  will  proclaim  it  to  all 
those  with  whom  we  come  in  contact,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it 
in  all  humility  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer  and 
Savior.  Amen." 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

President  Grant :  We  are  deeply  grateful  and  profoundly  touched 
by  your  message.  We  need  you,  and  love  you,  and  we  admire  your 
courage.  God  grant  you  many  years  of  health  and  strength  to  serve  Him. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  have  just  listened  to  one  of  the  most  memorable  testimonies,  * 
and  one  of  the  most  impressive,  ever  given  in  this  historic  building.  God 
bless  President  Grant. 


President  McKay  then  read  the  following  Annual  Report: 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

THE  EXPENDITURES  BY  THE  CHURCH  FOR  THE  YEAR 

1940 

Stake  and  Ward  Purposes: 

For  the  erection  of  meeting  houses  and  for  Ward  and  Stake 

maintenance  expenses   $1,627,921.15 

Missionary  Work : 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  Missions,  and  for  the 
erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  buildings  in 
the  Missions  $  628,338.03 

Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  the  Church  school  sys- 
tem $  924,495.95 

Temples : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  Temples... .$  352,423.60 
Hospitals : 

Expended  for  the  erection  and  maintenance  of  hospital 

buildings  (included  in  Church  Welfare  Program)   $  10,665.15 

Relief  Assistance : 

For  direct  aid  in  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  chari- 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  First  Day 

table  purposes,  including  hospital  treatment.  (From 
tithing  funds  only.  Included  in  Church  Welfare  Pro- 
gram)  $  594,917.00 


Total   $4,138,760.86 

which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  other  Church 
funds  and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in-Trust  to  the 
Saints  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  Stakes 
and  Wards,  Mission  activities,  for  the  maintenance  and 
operation  of  Church  schools,  and  Temples,  for  hospital 
buildings  and  relief  assistance. 

CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM 

Church  membership,  Stakes  and  Missions    862,664 

Number  of  Church  members  who  paid  voluntary  Fast  Of- 
ferings and  Welfare  contributions  to  help  the  needy : 

'              In  Wards    149,397 

In  Missions    16,520 

Total  '.   165,917 

Amount  of  voluntary  Fast  Offerings  and  Welfare  contribu- 
tions : 
In  Wards 

Fast  Offerings   $  415,550.40 

Welfare  contributions  receipted  for  by  Bishops....  74,383.52 
In  Missions : 

Fast  Offerings   22,988.21 

 Total  (all  expended  for  relief)   $  512,922.13 

Disbursed  to  the  needy  by  the  Relief  Society  for  direct  assist- 
ance in  their  homes  and  for  general  welfare  purposes, 
such  as  surgical  appliances  and  preventive  and  correc- 
tive health  work   $  95,249.10 

For  carrying  on  the  general,  welfare,  and  educational  pro- 
gram of  the  Relief  Society   310,159.70 

Expended  from  the  tithes  for  general  and  local  relief   379,158.39 

Expended  directly  by  the  Church  Welfare  Committee   215,758.61 

Expended  for  hospital  care  of  the  sick  in  addition  to  the 

amount  reported  disbursed  from  tithes   84,089.76 

Total  $1,597,337.69 

137,166  persons  received  assistance  during  the  year, 
which  is  an  average  of  11,431  per  month. 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  the  following  supplies  had  been 
assembled  and  were  on  hand  December  31,  1940,  and 
are  available  for  the  needy  during  the  year  1941. 


FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 


9 


CLOTHING,  BEDDING  AND  MISCELLANEOUS 


Men's  clothing,  pieces  

Women's  clothing,  pieces  

Children's  clothing,  pieces  

Quilts,  bedding  and  miscellane- 
ous   


4,670 

$  3,005.33 

8,660 

3,906.20 

6,520 

3,730.08 

14,675 

7,613.20 

34,525 

$  18,254.81 


CANNED  AND  DRIED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

Fruits  and  vegetables,  cans          1,008,751  $106,477.41 

Fruits  and  vegetables,  bottles  ....     22,585  2,991.65 

Dried  fruits  and  vegetables,  lbs...     38,335  2,092.71 

Miscellaneous  canned  goods             25,213  4,314.34 

Miscellaneous  foodstuff   6,252.62 

Total    $  122,128.73 

OTHER  PRODUCE 

Flour,  pounds   203,529  $  4,727.10 

Potatoes,  pounds     933,598  6,975.82 

Grain,  pounds    328,735  3,360.90 

Other  vegetables,  pounds   190,499  2,060.26 

Meat,  pounds   30,773  4,471.63 

Total   1,687,134  $  21,595.71 

FUEL,  LUMBER  AND  MISCELLANEOUS 

Coal,  pounds     618,958    $  1,358.17 

Wood,  cords      372  1,393.50 

Lumber,  board  feet   268,892  5,121.93 

Total    $  7,873.60 

Total  valuation,  December  31,  1940  $  169,852.85 

Stake  and  regional  storehouses  disbursed  in  1940,  $289,952.72  of  mer- 
chandise produced  by  the  Welfare  program. 

The  extent  to  which  the  Welfare  program  is  meeting  the  requirements 
of  the  Bishops  in  caring  for  the  needy  is  indicated  by  the  follow- 
ing percentages : 

Food :  Percent 

Program  produced  -  61 

Cash  purchases  39 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  First  Day 

Clothing : 

Program  produced  45 

Cash  purchases  55 

Fuel: 

Program  produced  79 

Cash  purchases  21 

Other  commodities : 

Program  produced  25 

Cash  purchases  75 


The  Church  owns  three  grain  elevators,  located  at  Salt  Lake  City  and 
Sharp,  Utah,  and  McCammon,  Idaho,  representing  an  investment 
of  $164,437.14.  222,316  bushels  of  wheat  are  now  stored  in  these 
elevators. 

FAST  OFFERING  INFORMATION 
Average  Fast  Offerings  and  Welfare  contributions  per 


capita  in  wards  $  0.85 

Regions  that  exceed  $1.00  per  capita: 

Arizona  $1.15 

Southern  California   1.10 

Salt  Lake   1.04 

Stakes  with  the  highest  per  capita : 

San  Juan  $1.73 

Long  Beach   1.58 

Bonneville    1.57 

Malad   1.53 

45  Stakes  paid  $1.00  or  more  per  capita. 

Missions  with  highest  per  capita : 
Membership  less  than  1500 

Japan     $1.31 

Brazil  76 

Argentine   61 

Membership  over  1500 

California   $  .49 

Eastern  States  40 

North  Central   38 


SUMMARY— CHURCH  BUILDING  PROGRAM 
Expended  for  the  erection,  improvement  and  furnishing 


of: 

Ward  and  Stake  buildings  $  853,298.70 

Mission  buildings   158,511.54 

Institutes  and  Seminaries    35,477.85 

Religious  Center — Brigham  Young  University    140,000.00 

Temple  buildings    190,980.37 

Grain  elevator,  Salt  Lake  City   110,084.17 

Roosevelt  Hospital  .„,„„.,.„          .....  ...  ,„  .        .  6,319.17 


STATISTICAL  REPORT 


11 


Amount  raised  locally  for  building  improvements   776,737.39 


Total   $2,271,409.19 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  $58,883.21  was  expended  for  building 
improvements  and  equipment  at  the  Dr.  W.  H.  Groves  L.  D.  S.  Hospital, 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  $54,279.69  at  the  Thomas  D.  Dee  Hospital,  Ogden. 
$33,409.19  was  paid  toward  acquiring  stake  and  regional  storehouse 
property  and  real  estate  for  housing  project. 

STATISTICS  FOR  THE  YEAR  1940 

Number  of  stakes  December  31,  1940:  134  (at  present  time  137)  ; 
1073  wards;  118  independent  branches;  or  a  total  of  1191  wards  and 
branches  in  the  stakes  of  Zion ;  also  35  missions  ;  1002  mission  branches, 
and  250  districts. 

CHURCH  MEMBERSHIP 


Stakes   703,017 

Missions   159,647 


Total   862,664 

CHURCH  GROWTH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in 

the  stakes  and  missions   21,544 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions    14,412 

Converts  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions    7,877 

MISSIONARIES 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  Dec.  31,  1940....  2,117 

Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  Dec.  31,  1940—.  31 

Number  of  local  missionaries   68 


Total  number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  Church  2,216 
Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes    2,469 


Total  missionaries   4,685 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary 

Home    1,139 


SOCIAL  STATISTICS 

Birth  rate  31.9  per  thousand 
Marriage  rate  18.4  per  thousand 
Death  rate  6.5  per  thousand 

EXPENDED  FOR  THE  MAINTENANCE  OF  MISSIONARIES 

Collected  by  wards  and  paid  to  missionaries  $  76,387.45 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  First  Dag 

Average  cost  per  missionary,  1940,  $30.12  per  month  or  a 
total  of  $361 .44  per  year  per  missionary. 

Average  number  of  missionaries  December  31,  1940,  2080, 

making  a  total  average  expense  for  the  year  of   751,795.20 

Estimated  possible  earnings  per  missionary  $900.00  per 
year  times  2,080,  average  number  of  missionaries, 
makes  an  estimated  total  of  what  these  missionaries 
might  have  earned  if  at  home  of   1,872,000.00 

Total  estimated  contribution  of  missionaries  and  their 

families  for  preaching  the  gospel   $2,700,182.65 

You  will  be  interested  in  the  following  brief  report  from  President 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  President  of  the  European  Mission,  regarding  the 
Missions  in  Europe : 


REPORT  OF  CONDITIONS  IN  THE  EUROPEAN  MISSIONS 

It  is  more  than  a  year  now  since  the  699  American  missionaries 
laboring  in  the  twelve  missions  classified  as  European  were  released 
to  come  home  or  were  transferred  to  missions  in  America.  At  the 
time  of  the  evacuation,  capable  local  brethren  were  placed  in  charge, 
and  they  are  carrying  on  the  work  quite  successfully.  Because  of 
mobilization  and  war,  nearly  all  of  our  brethren  of  military  age  have 
been  called  to  the  front,  and  the  work  is  having  to  be  taken  care  of 
by  the  elderly  brethren  and  the  sisters. 

However,  our  Sacrament  meetings,  Sunday  Schools,  and  Relief 
Societies,  and  Mutuals  to  a  limited  extent,  are  being  held.  Because  of  a 
shortage  of  fuel,  and  blackouts,  most  of  these  meetings  must  be  held  in 
the  day  time,  and  are  combined,  or  one  is  held  immediately  following 
the  other. 

In  spite  of  these  handicaps,  progress  is  being  made.  The  district 
and  annual  conferences  are  being  held.  Limited  missionary  work  is 
being  done,  especially  in  the  British  Mission  where  the  brethren  hold- 
ing the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  are  excused  from  army  service.  Bap- 
tisms are  reported  from  all  the  missions.  Tithing  and  Fast  Offerings 
are  being  paid,  collections  of  food  and  clothing  are  made  quite  regu- 
larly, and  the  less  fortunate  of  the  members  are  being  well  cared  for. 

The  following  paragraph,  taken  from  the  Norwegian  Mission 
Report,  is  typical  of  reports  from  a  number  of  the  missions: 

"Many  of  the  Saints  have  lost  all  they  own — home,  property, 
work.  All  they  have  left  is  the  clothes  they  wear.  Many  have  taken 
part  in  the  fights,  but  their  lives  are  spared.  These  hardest  afflicted 
of  the  Saints  have  not  lost  their  faith.  They  have  seen  that  even  if 
they  have  lost  everything  else,  God  has  saved  their  lives." 

Because  of  the  extremely  heavy  bombings  recently  in  the  British 
Isles  the  First  Presidency  were  very  much  relieved,  and  we  are  sure 
you  will  be,  to  learn  in  a  letter  received  today,  dated  London,  March 
IS,  stating  among  other  encouraging  news  the  following: 

"The  conditions  of  the  British  Mission  are  about  the  same.  All 
the  branches  are  functioning  and  we  have  had  no  casualties  or  damage 
within  the  last  two  months." 

A  previous  letter  had  reported  damage  to  the  leased  property  at 
295  Edge  Lane,  Liverpool,  where  the  Millennial  Star  was  published 
and  the  bookstore  located.  These  activities  are  now  carried  on  at 
our  headquarters  at  149  Nightingale  Lane,  London. 

Except  in  Paris,  France,  the  headquarters  of  all  the  missions, 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 


13 


including  the  Czechoslovakian  and  Palestine-Syrian  Missions,  are 
being  maintained  as  usual,  and  very  encouraging  reports  are  being 
received  from  all  the  Acting  Mission  Presidents.  They  all  say:  "Don't 
worry  about  us,  we  are  all  right — we  have  the  Gospel." 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD  AND 
BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  OCTOBER 
CONFERENCE— 1940 

Special  Appointments : 

Frank  Evans,  former  Eastern  States  Mission  President,  was  ap- 
pointed Secretary  for  Finance  to  the  First  Presidency,  to  succeed  Arthur 
Winter,  deceased. 

Nezv  Mission  Presidents : 

Henry  H.  Blood  appointed  to  preside  over  the  California  Mission 
to  succeed  President  W.  Aird  Macdonald. 

Elvon  W.  Orme  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Australian  Mission 
to  succeed  President  James  Judd. 

New  Temple  President : 

Albert  H.  Belliston  appointed  to  preside  over  the  Hawaiian  Temple, 
to  succeed  President  Castle  H.  Murphy. 

New  Stakes  Organised : 

The  Big  Cottonwood  Stake  was  organized  by  a  division  of  the 
Cottonwood  Stake,  and  consists  o>f  the  Cottonwood,  flolladay,  Mt.  Olym- 
pus, South  Cottonwood  and  Winder  Wards.  The  Cottonwood  Stake 
is  now  composed  of  the  Bennion,  Grant,  Murray  First,  Murray  Second, 
Murray  Third,  Taylorsville,  Millcreek,  and  Valley  Center  Wards. 

The  Uvada  Stake  was  organized  by  a  division  of  the  Moapa  Stake, 
and  consists  of  the  Alamo,  Caliente,  Panaca,  Pioche  and  Enterprise 
Wards.  The  Enterprise  ward  was  taken  from  the  St.  George  Stake. 
The  Moapa  Stake  is  now  composed  of  the  Boulder  City,  Bunkerville, 
Las  Vegas,  Littlefield,  Logandale,  Mesquite,  North  Las  Vegas  and 
Overton  Wards. 

The  Reno  Stake  was  organized  from  branches  of  the  California 
Mission,  and  consists  of  the  Reno,  Winnemucca,  Fallon,  Susanville, 
Sparks  and  Westwood  Wards,  and  the  Portola  and  Carson  City  Branches. 

The  San  Diego  Stake  was  organized  from  branches  in  the  Califor- 
nia Mission,  and  consists  of  the  National  City,  Logan  Heights,  Hillcrest, 
North  Park  and  Fairmount  Wards,  and  the  LaMesa  Branch. 

The  Southern  Arizona  Stake  was  organized  from  branches  in  the 
California  Mission,  and  consists  of  the  Binghampton,  Bisbee,  Douglas, 
Pomerene,  St.  David,  Tucson  and  Whitewater  Wards. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen : 

Irvin  T.  Nelson  chosen  president  of  the  newly  organized  Big  Cot- 
tonwood Stake. 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  i  First  Dan 

Edwin  Q.  Cannon  chosen  president  of  the  Ensign  Stake,  to  succeed 
President  Winslow  F.  Smith. 

David  LeRoy  Sargent  chosen  president  of  the  Parowan  Stake,  to 
succeed  President  William  R.  Palmer. 

I.  Homer  Smith  chosen  president  of  the  Sacramento  Stake,  to  suc- 
ceed President  Mark  W.  Cram. 

Daniel  J.  Ronnow  chosen  president  of  the  newly  organized  Uvada 
Stake. 

Edwin  Clawson  chosen  president  of  the  Hyrum  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Danford  M.  Bickmore. 

E.  Woodruff  Stucki  chosen  president  of  the  Bear  Lake  Stake,  to 
succeed  President  George  H.  Robinson. 

Will  L.  Hoyt  chosen  president  of  the  Juab  Stake  to  succeed  Presi- 
dent A.  H.  Belliston. 

Victor  D.  Nelson  chosen  president  of  the  Lost  River  Stake  to 
succeed  President  Walter  A.  Jensen,  deceased. 

Nathan  T.  Hurst  chosen  president  of  the  newly  organized  Reno 
Stake. 

Ray  E.  Dillman  chosen  president  of  the  Roosevelt  Stake,  to  succeed 
President  Byron  O.  Colton. 

Wallace  W.  Johnson  chosen  president  of  the  newly  organized  San 
Diego  Stake. 

A.  B.  Ballantyne  chosen  president  of  the  newly  organized  Southern 
Arizona  Stake. 

Wesley  E.  Tingey  chosen  president  of  the  South  Davis  Stake,  to 
succeed  President  Thomas  E.  Winegar. 

Howard  S.  McDonald  chosen  president  of  the  San  Francisco  Stake, 
to  succeed  President  Stephen  H.  Winter. 

New  Wards  Organized : 

El  Sereno  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake. 

Valley  Center  Ward,  Cottonwood  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of 
the  Millcreek  Ward. 

Murray  3rd  Ward;  Cottonwood  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the 
Murray  1st  Ward. 

East  Ensign  Ward,  Ensign  Stake,  and 

West  Ensign  Ward,  Ensign  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the 
Ensign  Ward. 

North  Twentieth  Ward,  Ensign  Stake,  and 

South  Twentieth  Ward,  Ensign  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the 
Twentieth  Ward. 

Fallon  Ward,  Reno  Ward,  Susanville  Ward,  Winnemucca  Ward, 
Sparks  Ward,  Westwood  Ward,  Reno  Stake,  created  from  branches  in 
the  California  Mission. 

Fairmount  Ward,  Hillcrest  Ward,  Logan  Heights  Ward,  National 
City  Ward,  and  North  Park  Ward,  San  Diego  Stake,  created  from 
branches  in  the  California  Mission. 

Binghampton  Ward,  Bisbee  Ward,  Douglas  Ward,  Pomerene  Ward, 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 


15 


St.  David  Ward,  Tucson  Ward  and  Whitewater  Ward,  Southern  Ari- 
zona Stake,  created  from  branches  in  the  California  Mission. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards : 

Walla  Walla  Branch,  Union  Stake,  formerly  independent  branch 
of  same  stake. 

Pioneer  Branch,  Pioneer  Stake,  made  a  ward  and  the  name  was 
changed  to  Redwood  Ward. 

New  Independent  Branches : 

Dividend  Branch,  Santaquin-Tintic  Stake. 
Powell  Branch,  Big  Horn  Stake. 

LaMesa  Branch,  San  Diego  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the  Califor- 
nia Mission. 

Carson  City  Branch,  Reno  Stake,  and 

Portola  Branch,  Reno  Stake,  formerly  branches  in  the  California 
Mission. 

Ward  Disorganised : 

Kimball  Ward,  St.  Joseph  Stake. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away : 

Elder  Reed  Smoot,  member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  for  forty 
years,  and  United  States  Senator  for  thirty  years. 

Walter  A.  Jensen,  Lost  River  Stake  President  for  eleven  years. 

William  A.  Jones,  former  President  of  the  Long  Beach  Stake. 

Joseph  S.  Bodell,  Patriarch  of  the  West  Jordan  Stake,  formerly  in 
the  Bishopric,  Stake  High  Council  and  Stake  High  Priests  Quorum 
Presidency. 

William  W.  Francis,  Patriarch  of  Morgan  Stake. 

V.  L.  Halliday,  formerly  a  Patriarch  of  the  Ensign  Stake  and  long 
active  in  Church  affairs. 

M.  B.  Richardson,  served  for  26  years  as  bishop  of  the  Ogden  Third 
Ward,  North  Weber  Stake,  and  four  years  as  counselor. 

Dr.  Thomas  Frederick  Hardy,  Bishop  of  the  Yale  Ward  for  four 
and  one-half  years. 

Harold  F.  Coleman,  Monrovia  Ward  Bishop  for  one  year,  Pasa- 
dena Stake. 

James  Maxwell,  former  bishop  of  the  Twenty-seventh  Ward,  Ensign 
Stake,  for  twenty  years. 

Heber  W.  Perry,  former  bishop  of  Perry  Ward  and  High  Council- 
or in  the  Box  Elder  Stake. 

Mrs.  Lydia  Elizabeth  Spencer  Clawson,  wife  of  President  Rudger 
Clawson,  President  of  the  Council  of  Twelve. 

Lon  Fisher,  High  Councilor  in  Granite  Stake,  former  member  of 
Lincoln  Ward  Bishopric,  Temple  worker  and  Tabernacle  Choir  Librarian. 

Hugh  Ireland,  for  20  years  editor  of  the  Liahona,  Branch  President 
at  various  times,  and  general  Church  worker. 

An  anthem,  "Grant  Us  Peace" — Evan  Stephens — was  sung  by  the 
Choir. 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  i  First  Day 

REPORT  OF  THE  CHURCH  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams,  at  the  request  of  President  Clark,  read  the 
following  report : 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  Counselors, 
Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  examined  the  Financial  report  of  the  Church  for  the 
year  1940.  The  records  are  complete,  accurate  and  intelligible;  the 
accounting  system  is  adequate  and  modern;  the  budget  is  in  balance, 
and  the  Church  is  free  from  debt. 

Sincerely  yours, 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
H.  H.  Bennett 
George  S.  Spencer 

Church  Auditing  Committee. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  while  I  stand  before  you  I  trust  that  the 
Lord  will  lead  me  to  say  something  that  will  be  helpful,  uplifting,  and 
encouraging. 

You  have  heard  the  report  read  by  President  McKay,  and  there 
are  certain  things  I  should  like  to  refer  to  briefly  in  that  connection. 

First,  let  me  say  that  we  miss  Elder  Reed  Smoot  this  morning,  a 
man  of  valiant,  able,  and  conspicuous  service  to  his  nation,  and  a  man 
who  I  think  has  been  the  greatest  single  missionary  of  our  time. 

You  have  already  heard  regarding  the  Saints  in  Europe.  I  may 
say  that  since  our  last  Conference  we  have  evacuated  the  missionaries 
from  the  Pacific  Isles,  Australia,  and  New  Zealand,  and  have  returned 
them,  some  to  Hawaii,  and  the  rest  to  the  mainland.  This  evacuation  was 
carried  out  speedily  as  was  the  one  from  Europe,  and  without  any  ac- 
cident or  untoward  incident. 

BUDGET  IN  BALANCE 

As  Brother  Orval  Adams  has  told  you,  the  budget  is  in  balance.  We 
have  lived  within  our  income  ;  the  Church  is  not  in  debt.  As  I  have 
said  on  a  previous  occasion  we  hope  and  intend,  so  far  as  we  are  able,  to 
keep  it  this  way;  first,  because  we  believe  that  is  the  way  the  Church 
should  be  run ;  secondly,  because  we  believe  we  should  set  the  example  in 
handling  your  trust  funds,  you  members  of  the  Church;  thirdly,  be- 
cause, for  what  it  may  be  worth,  we  would  like  to  set  an  example  that 
might  be  followed  by  our  own  governmental  agencies. 

During  the  last  year  we  spent  more  for  stake  and  ward  purposes ; 
education,  temples,  and  relief  assistance,  than  we  spent  in  1939.  We 
spent  less  for  missionary  work,  due  probably  entirely  to  the  withdrawal 
from  foreign  fields,  and  we  spent  less  in  hospitals,  largely  due  to  the 
fact  that  the  hospitals  are  becoming  better  business  institutions,  and  are 
maintaining  themselves. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


17 


As  might  be  expected,  and  as  ought  to  be,  in  view  of  the  employment 
which  is  now  being  furnished  and  has  been  for  some  months,  there  were 
18,294  fewer  persons  receiving  relief  from  the  Church  in  1940  than  in 
1939.  This  load  should  lessen,  but  I  should  like  to  urge  all  presidents 
of  stakes,  bishops  and  counselors,  the  auxiliaries,  and  the  Welfare'  or- 
ganizations to  remember  that  the  major  part  of  the  employment  which 
we  now  have  available  is  for  war  purposes  and  war  industries,  and  when 
this  war  is  over  those  industries  will  cease ;  those  employed  in  them  will 
be  thrown  out  of  work;  it  will  take  considerable  time  for  readjustment, 
and  the  need  for  your  Welfare  program  as  planned  will  be  greatly  in- 
tensified. 

URGES  CARE  IN  SPENDING 

We  are  trying  as  best  we  can  to  spend  your  funds,  which  you  have 
given  to  the  Lord,  wisely;  we  are  trying  to  make  no  commitments  that 
we  cannot  meet  in  the  matter  of  buildings  and  other  activities  so  num- 
erous in  which  the  Church  is  engaged.  We  are  trying  not  unduly  to  ex- 
pand our  activities.  We  are  being  very  careful  and  ask  you  brethren, 
(and  we  rejoice  beyond  expression  to  have  so  many  bishops  and  presi- 
dents of  stakes  here  at  this  Conference,  perhaps  the  greatest  number  that 
has  ever  assembled  at  any  individual  Conference  of  the  Church)  we  are 
asking  you  brethren,  in  making  up  your  building  program,  to  remember 
that  you  are  on  a  rising  market ;  that  you  cannot  tell  just  what  your 
materials  are  going  to  cost ;  therefore  we  urge  you  to  be  careful  in  the 
making  of  your  estimates. 

In  the  spending  of  tithing  funds,  we  are  trying  to  spend  them  for 
the  welfare  of  communities  rather  than  for  the  welfare  of  particular 
individuals.  The  Church  is  not  a  banking  institution,  and  while,  through 
our  Welfare  organization,  we  are  helping  individuals,  that  is  done  upon 
the  recommendation  of  the  quorum  to  which  the  individual  belongs,  and 
with  their  guarantee.  If  we  were  to  undertake  to  lend  to  everybody 
who  needs  help  there  would  be  no  money  left  for  the  regular  activities 
of  the  Church. 

We  are  trying  to  practice  economy,  and  particularly  in  our  buying, 
because,  I  repeat,  we  are  spending  funds  marked  with  the  highest  kind 
of  a  trust,  and  so  we  urge  you  brethren,  you  bishops,  you  presidents  of 
stakes,  in  your  buying,  to  get  the  most  that  you  can  for  your  money. 
These  funds  are  not  given  to  you  to  spend  to  help  some  particular  per- 
son in  whom  you  have  a  special  interest,  however  worthy  that  person 
may  be,  unless  he  can  give  you  the  service  for  his  funds. 

We  are  trying  not  to  build  magnificent  cathedrals,  but  serviceable 
meeting  houses,  and  would  like  you  brethren  and  sisters  to  have  that  in 
mind  when  you  are  planning  for  the  expenditure  of  funds. 

GRATITUDE  EXPRESSED  FOR  GENEROSITY  OF  SAINTS 

Our  Fast  Offerings,  to  which  Brother  McKay  alluded,  have  in- 
creased, in  the  average,  (there  is  only  a  slight  increase  over  1939) — the 
average  this  year  was  83  cents,  as  he  stated,  and  82.2  in  1939. 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  i  First  Day 

Twenty-eight  stakes  in  1939  paid  more  than  a  dollar;  45  in  1940. 
But  we  missed  some  of  the  excellent  records  that  were  made  by  stakes  in 
1939,  and  the  maximum  of  1940  was  not  so  great  for  a  stake  as  it  was  in 
1939. 

We  have  begun  and  are  pushing  to  completion  the  Idaho  Falls 
Temple.  We  have  erected  a  memorial  building  to  Joseph  Smith  on  the 
Brigham  Young  University  campus.  We  have  been  adding  Welfare 
storehouses,  and  in  addition  we  have  been  carrying  on  the  regular  build- 
ing of  the  Church. 

I  would  like  to  thank  the  people  on  behalf  of  the  General  Authorities 
for  their  generosity,  their  loyalty,  their  service  in  carrying  on  the  tem- 
poral affairs  of  the  Church  as  well  as  the  spiritual  affairs.  The  Lord 
has  in  this  Church  combined  the  spiritual  and  the  temporal  very  closely 
and  we  therefore  have  both  as  a  part  of  our  mission,  and,  I  repeat,  the 
First  Presidency  and  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  are  grateful 
beyond  expression  for  your  services  of  the  past. 

PERILS  OF  TIMES 

Now,  I  have  not  time  to  touch  on  more  of  those  matters,  although 
there  are  several  others  that  deserve  mention,  but  I  want  to  read  some- 
thing to  you  to  conclude  my  remarks. 

The  perils  of  these  times  justify  some  comment.  May  I  be  pardon- 
ed if  I  repeat  now  some  things  I  have  said  on  other  occasions. 

In  September,  1923,  eighteen  years  ago,  at  a  religious  service  in  this 
Tabernacle,  I  mentioned  certain  trends  I  then  saw.  They  were :  a  spirit 
of  revolution  that  threatened  the  very  foundations  of  government  every- 
where, indeed  the  destruction  of  the  existing  bodies  politic  of  the  world ; 
the  unrestricted  immigration  of  aliens  who  were  foreign  and  in  tradi- 
tion hostile  to  our  systems  of  government ;  the  enhancement  of  the  power 
of  the  Federal  Executive ;  the  breaking  down  of  the  mutual  independence 
of  the  three  branches  of  government, — executive,  judicial,  and  legislative ; 
the  disappearance  of  local  self  government  and  the  assumption  of  control 
by  the  Federal  Government  of  the  very  details  of  our  lives;  the  curtail- 
ment of  our  constitutional  guarantees  under  the  Bill  of  Rights ;  the  build- 
ing of  class  in  our  nation  and  of  class  conflict  and  hatred ;  the  spread  of 
Bolshevism,  we  call  it  Communism  now,  working  for  the  overthrow  of 
our  government,  the  doing  away  with  religion,  even  the  overturning  of 
our  family  relationships. 

During  the  eighteen  years  passed  since  then,  I  have  on  all  opportuni- 
ties repeated  these  observations. 

I  will  leave  you  to  make  up  your  own  minds  how  far  these  trends 
have  become  realities. 

NO  MAN  SEES  END 

No  thinking  person  doubts  that  our  people,  our  nation,  and  the 
world  are  now  passing  through  one  of  the  great  crises  of  the  world's 
history.  We  are  in  the  midst  of  a  world-wide  revolution,  which  is  wholly 
alien  to  our  free  institutions  and  is  foreign  in  birth,  concept,  and  directing 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


19 


head.  No  man,  of  his  own  power,  sees  the  end.  But  the  end  the  revolu- 
tionists seek  is  fairly  clear;  it  is  the  overturning  of  the  whole  existing 
order,  political,  financial,  economic,  social,  religious,  the  complete  destruc- 
tion of  our  Constitution  and  the  government  established  under  it,  and  then 
the  setting  up  of  some  sort  of  despotism  that  shall  destroy,  in  all  these 
fields,  the  free  agency  which  the  Lord  gave  to  man.  The  revolutionists 
plan  that  this  is  to  be  largely  done  during  the  war,  under  the  plea  of  war 
necessity;  it  is  to  be  continued  after  the  war  under  the  excuse — if  we 
are  not  then  too  cowed  to  require  an  excuse — that  this  new  political  order 
is  necessary  that  we  may  rehabilitate  the  world.  They  count  that  then, 
after  a  little  time,  the  revolution  will  be  secure.  There  seems  no  doubt 
that  this  is  their  conscious,  deliberate,  planned  end.  We  have  gone  a 
long  way  already  down  this  road. 

OUR  DUTY  TO  SUSTAIN  THE  CONSTITUTION 

Knowing  as  we  do  that  God  set  up  this  Constitution  of  ours  and  that 
He  has  declared  it  "should  be  maintained  for  the  rights  and  protection 
of  all  flesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles,"  (D.  &  C.  101 :77)  it 
is  the  duty  of  every  member  of  the  Church  to  protect  and  defend  the 
Constitution  against  any  and  all  attack.  In  this  country  our  lawful  poli- 
tical allegiance  runs  not  to  any  man,  not  to  any  party,  not  to  any  "ism," 
but  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  and  to  the  free  institutions 
set  up  under  it.  There  can  be  no  tampering  with  the  "just  and  holy 
principles"  of  the  Constitution.  No  true  Latter-day  Saint  can  or  will  do 
other  than  reverence  the  Constitution ;  each  will  do  all  in  his  power  to 
save  it  from  pollution  or  destruction. 

FORMER  PREDICTIONS  REPEATED 

For  the  past  several  Conferences,  I  have  spoken  about  world  condi- 
tions. In  the  April  Conference  of  1937,  I  said : 

....  there  is  strongest  reason  for  believing  that  some  of  the  most 
skilled,  astute,  and  shrewd  diplomats,  politicians,  and  statesmen  of  all 
Europe  are  now  planning  to  have  the  people  of  the  United  States 
finance  the  next  European  war  either  before  the  war  begins  or  during 
its  progress. 

I  continued: 

Furthermore,  certain  of  these  same  diplomats,  politicians,  and 
statesmen  are  planning  to  entice  the  United  States  into  an  offensive 
and  defensive  military  alliance  in  order  that  we  shall  participate  in  that 
next  world  war  by  sending  our  young  men  to  the  battlefields  of  Europe. 
The  argument  they  now  plan  to  use  to  bring  this  about  is  that  in  this 
way  only  can  the  peace  of  the  world  be  preserved.  While  this  is  a 
most  profound  fallacy,  it  will  unfortunately  find  a  sympathetic  ear 
among  many  of  the  people  of  this  country  who  do  not  fully  understand 
international  relations.  It  will  require  the  wisest  statesmanship  on 
our  part  to  prevent  the  United  States  from  becoming  again  the  victim 
of  a  world  military  catastrophe. 

I  need  make  no  comment  about  these  statements. 


20 

Friday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


TO  BE  PEACEMAKERS  THE  DESTINY  OF  AMERICA 

This  war  began  as  a  war  for  empire.  This  is  an  unrighteous  cause. 
A  war  to  enlarge  and  maintain  empire  of  conquest  is  no  better.  This 
war  continues  for  these  two  objects.  All  other  issues  urged  in  this  con- 
test are  merely  ancillary  to  the  getting  or  keeping  of  empire.  America 
has  no  place  as  a  belligerent  in  such  a  conflict.  We  do  have  a  place  in 
the  world  by  Divine  design  and  destiny  as  the  makers  of  a  lasting  peace, 
but  we  must  come  to  this  task  not  as  joint  conquerors  but  with  clean 
hands  and  a  contrite  spirit,  bearing  in  our  hands  the  olive  branch  of  peace, 
spiritual  hope,  and  righteousness. 

We  have  heard  that  our  help  in  the  conflict  was  always  to  be  short 
of  war ;  but  we  have  for  many  months  been  in  fact  actual  participants  in 
the  war. 

We  have  also  been  told  our  sons  would  not  be  sent  abroad  to  fight, 
but  American  vessels  on  both  of  our  coasts  are  reported  now  actually 
making  ready  for  use  as  troop  transports. 

It  does  look  as  if  only  Divine  intervention  of  some  kind  can  keep 
our  sons  on  our  own  soil,  fighting  for  our  own  cause,  in  defense  of  our 
own  freedom  and  liberties. 

We  all  have  the  deepest  sympathy  for  the  woe  and  misery  which 
afflict  the  innocent  peoples  of  Europe.  We  join  them  in  sorrowing  for 
lost  loved  ones.  We  pray  to  the  Lord  to  mitigate  their  suffering  and 
assuage  their  grief.  But  we  need  not  be  so  much  concerned  about  poli- 
tical Europe.  This  war  is  merely  the  outbreaking  of  old  political  hatreds 
that  have  festered  in  Europe  for  a  thousand  years.  They  have  never 
been  fully  wiped  out  before ;  they  will  not  after  this  war  is  over.  Our 
great  concern  is  that  this  endemic  yet  virulent  infection  shall  not  spread 
to  America  and  leave  us  with  an  incurable  malady. 

I  have  before  urged  and  I  now  urge  that  we  put  hate  away  from 
us,  because  it  is  the  hates  from  the  last  war  that  have  made  this  one. 
Hate  and  righteousness  cannot  dwell  in  the  same  heart.  Hate  cankers 
the  soul  and  destroys  spirituality.  Hate  has  no  place  in  the  hearts  of  the 
followers  of  Jesus. 

A  CHOICE  LAND 

With  infinite  patience,  infinite  mercy,  infinite  love,  the  Lord  has  tried 
to  lead  His  children  of  this  earth  along  the  paths  He  has  made  for  us, 
that  we  today  might  not  become  ripened  in  iniquity  and  subject  to  chas- 
tisement as  were  His  children  in  the  olden  times.  We  who  live  on  this 
hemisphere  have  a  special  blessing  and  a  prescribed  decree.  This  is 
the  blessing : 

Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess 
it  shall  be  free  from  bondage,  and  from  captivity,  and  from  all  other 
nations  under  heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land,  who 
is  Jesus  Christ.   (Ether  2:12.) 

This  is  the  decree : 

Wherefore  he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve  God  or  shall  be  swept 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


21 


off;  for  it  is  the  everlasting  decree  of  God.  And  it  is  not  until  the 
fulness  of  iniquity  among  the  children  of  the  land,  that  they  are  swept 
off.   (Ether  2:10.) 

May  the  Lord  help  us  so  to  live  that  we  enjoy  the  blessings  and  es- 
cape the  decree. 

Too  many  of  us  of  this  land  have  not  hearkened  to  the  voice  of  the 
Lord,  nor  observed  His  laws  and  commandments.  The  offenses  of  the 
peoples  of  the  earth  have  been  great ;  the  eternal  law  seems  to  be  that 
there  must  be  an  equal  atonement. 

Jesus  said  to  His  disciples : 

"Woe  unto  the  world  because  of  offenses!  for  it  must  needs  be 
that  offenses  come;  but  woe  to  that  man  by  whom  the  offense  cometh! 
(Matt.  18:7.) 

THE  LORD'S  PLANS  WILL  TRIUMPH 

But  in  all  the  afflictions  we  now  have  or  that  loom  up  ahead,  it  is 
my  faith  that  the  Lord  is  at  the  helm,  for  this  is  a  major  event  in  the 
history  of  man.  It  is  my  faith  that  nothing  has  happened  and  nothing 
will  happen  that  is  contrary  to  His  plan  or  that  is  against  His  will.  In 
the  final  event,  God  does  not  permit  any  trifling  with  His  decrees.  How- 
ever far  afield  men  may  wander,  Righteousness  and  Truth  finally  triumph. 
Of  these  things  I  have  the  same  knowledge  that  I  have  that  I  live. 

Of  all  peoples,  we  are,  with  this  knowledge,  the  most  blessed  in  the 
earth.  Because,  however  dark  may  seem  the  days,  we  shall  face  our 
trials  with  the  sure  knowledge  that  God  lives ;  we  know  that  He  can  hear 
and  answer  our  prayers  according  to  His  wisdom ;  we  understand  that 
we  have  an  existence  hereafter  where  we  and  our  loved  ones  shall  be 
forever  safe  from  the  ills  of  the  flesh ;  we  know  that  we  shall  have  eternal 
happiness  if  we  live  and  die  righteously;  we  know  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  and  protect  wherever  he  may  be,  every  man  who  lives  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel  and  who  does  his  duty. 

PRAYER  FOR  PEACE 

We  believe  in  peace.  We  are  the  devoted  followers  of  the  Prince  of 
Peace.  We  abhor  war,  save  in  the  actual  defense  of  our  homes,  our  fam- 
ilies, our  liberties.  For  we  remember  that  when  Peter  struck  off  with 
his  sword  the  ear  of  Malchus,  the  servant  of  the  High  Priest,  the  Lord 
said:  "All  they  that  take  the  sword  shall  perish  with  the  sword."  (Matt. 
26:52)  The  Lord  made  no  exceptions  to  His  law.  History  has  made 
none. 

We  pray  for  peace.  We  pray  that  the  Lord  will  keep  the  youth  of 
America  out  of  the  European  conflict.  We  ask  Him  to  bring  peace  into 
the  hearts  of  men. 

With  all  my  heart  I  join  in  the  anxiety  and  pray  the  prayer  of  Presi- 
dent Grant.  God  bless  our  boys  and  the  boys  of  all  America !  God  bless 
the  youth  of  the  world,  ignorant  of  the  why  of  all  this  and  innocent  of 
any  blame  therefor. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  increase  our  testimonies  of  the  truth  of 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  4  First  Day 

His  Gospel,  for  the  day  cometh  when  this  shall  be  our  greatest  solace, 
and  comfort,  the  sheet  anchor  which  shall  keep  us  from  spiritual  despair. 
God  bless  us,  preserve  us,  increase  our  testimonies,  help  us  to  live  the 
Gospel,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

This  is  a  very  wonderful  gathering.  It  looks  very  much  like  a  Priest- 
hood meeting,  but  it  is  a  general  meeting  of  the  members  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  a  very  important  gathering. 

I  was  deeply  impressed  with  the  remarks  made  by  President  Grant. 
I  am  sure  we  are  all  very  happy  to  have  him  with  us,  to  take  the  lead 
and  point  out  the  way.   The  Lord  bless  him  and  heal  him ! 

A  VERY  SATISFACTORY  REPORT 

The  statement  read  this  morning  by  President  McKay  was  and  is 
perhaps  the  most  elaborate  and  comprehensive  statement  ever  made  to 
the  Church,  both  financially  and  socially,  from  this  stand.  The  budget 
is  balanced  and  the  Church  is  out  of  debt.  What  excellent  good  news 
that  is !  How  we  ought  to  rejoice  and  glorify  the  Lord  for  the  prosperity 
and  the  faith  and  good  works  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  !  We  feel  relieved, 
we  feel  strengthened  and  encouraged  when  we  can  have  such  reports  as 
those  that  were  also  commented  upon  by  President  Clark,  and  his  further 
remarks  this  morning  were  indeed  impressive  and  encouraging  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  hoped  they  will  have  a  good  effect  throughout 
our  country. 

GOSPEL  PREACHED  BY  WORD  AND  EXAMPLE 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  Lord  has  said  in  a  revelation  to  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet — said  it  in  more  than  one  place  in  the  scriptures — that 
salvation  is  the  greatest  gift  of  God  to  man,  and  that  salvation  comes  by 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel.  The  miracles  and  blessings  that  follow 
the  preaching  do  not  come  before  but  come  after  the  preaching  to  con- 
firm the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  all  who  will  receive  the  word 
of  God.  God  does  not  give  signs  and  miracles  to  make  us  believe,  but 
rather  to  strengthen  and  help  those  who  receive  the  message. 

I  call  your  attention  to  an  incident  connected  with  the  crucifixion  of 
the  Savior.  It  was  his  great  mission  to  come  to  the  earth,  under  the  di- 
rection of  His  Father  in  Heaven,  that  His  precious  blood  might  be  shed 
for  the  redemption  of  mankind.  After  His  crucifixion,  and  just  prior  to 
His  returning  to  Heaven,  He  delivered  an  important  charge  to  His 
disciples  in  these  words : 

Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 
He  that  beli'eveth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth 
not  shall  be  damned. 


So  I  take  it  that  that  responsibility  is  upon  those  who  are  called  to 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


23 


preach  the  Gospel.  There  is  nothing  greater  than  to  preach  the  word  of 
God,  to  acknowlege  His  hand,  to  walk  uprightly  before  Him,  to  be 
humble  and  faithful,  and  not  only  by  word  of  mouth  but  also  to  preach 
the  Gospel  by  example.  We  are  making  history  individually  and  col- 
lectively, and  so  it  is  highly  essential  that  our  lives  and  example  should 
conform  with  our  preaching,  and  then  it  will  be  effective. 

MESSAGE  PREACHED  AT  HOME  AND  ABROAD 

A  good  work  is  now  being  accomplished.  We  are  calling  young  men 
and  young  women  and  some  that  are  older  into  the  mission  field.  They 
are  soldiers  of  the  cross.  They  go  not  to  kill  and  destroy  as  in  war,  but 
to  save  and  build  up,  and  if  we  are  all  faithful  and  true  to  the  Cause 
and  exemplify  our  words  by  our  lives  the  effect  will  be  tremendous, 
and  the  effect  as  it  is  is  very  fine.  The  influence  of  the  testimonies  and 
exhortations  that  go  out  from  this  Conference  unto  the  world  at  large 
will  have  a  most  salutary  effect  I  am  sure. 

Notable  people  and  tourists  traveling  over  the  country,  stopping  at 
Salt  Lake  City  are  usually  headed  the  first  thing  for  the  Temple  Block ; 
they  have  heard  about  this  wonderful  Tabernacle  which  is  like  a  testimony 
of  the  truth,  where  holy  men  have  stood  and  taught  the  people.  These 
visitors  have  been  influenced  and  they  marvel  and  wonder  about  it.  Some 
of  them  investigate  the  Gospel ;  they  have  reflected  about  this  matter  of 
tithing ;  they  have  approved  of  it  and  they  would  like  to  know  just  how 
it  is  done.  Of  course  we  have  to  say  that  we  regret  that  we  cannot  tell 
them  just  how  to  do  it  in  their  churches ;  we  know  how  to  do  it  in  our 
Church  because  it  is  a  law  of  God  given  to  us.  Every  individual  who 
earns  means  in  the  Mormon  Church  is  under  the  responsibility  of  ob- 
serving the  law  of  tithing.  It  is  not  binding  upon  these  other  churches 
because  they  do  not  have  the  authority  and  the  spirit  to  do  it.  The  unity 
of  this  great  congregation  here — what  it  would  mean  if  we  were  all  per- 
fectly united,  sitting  under  the  voice  of  revelation,  the  voice  of  the 
Priesthood  and  the  power  of  God — it  is  a  wonderful  thing !  We  are  a 
blessed  people  and  have  much  to  be  thankful  for. 

BEARS  TESTIMONY 

I  feel  that  it  is  a  great  privilege,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  stand  be- 
fore you  and  to  bear  my  testimony  and  to  say  to  you  I  know  absolutely, 
without  mental  reservation,  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Son  of  God,  and  He  is  with  us  and  His  power  and  influence  will  uphold 
us,  and  we  will  have  an  instructive  and  wonderful  time  before  the  Con- 
ference closes. 

Peace  be  unto  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters ;  the  Lord  prosper  you 
in  every  righteous  undertaking,  in  every  movement  for  the  benefit  and 
blessing  of  the  people,  I  ask  in  the  worthy  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "How  Beautiful  Upon  the  Mountains" — 
Dr.  John  Stainer, 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  First  Day 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  should  like  to  repeat  the  slogan,  "Drive  carefully,  and  pedestrians 
walk  sensibly." 

Elder  Leo  J.  Muir,  President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission,  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Friday,  April  4. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  time  has  come  to  open  the  second  session  of  our  Conference. 
We  are  blessed  again  this  afternoon  with  the  presence  of  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  who  is  presiding,  and  he  has  asked  President  Clark  to 
conduct  the  meeting. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  President  Grant  and 
his  two  Counselors;  the  eleven  Apostles;  all  of  the  First  Seven  Presi- 
dents of  Seventies ;  and  all  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  congregation  and  the  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus  and 
members  of  the  Provo  Duo  Stake  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  a 
Foundation" — Words  by  Keene. 

Elder  Charles  S.  Clark,  President  of  the  Cassia  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  sang  "Glory  to  God  in  the  Highest" — Pergolesi. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  wish  all  you  fine  people  in  the  body  of  the  house  could  see  this 
audience  from  the  stand.  It  is  a  wonderful  sight,  every  seat  filled  and 
people  standing,  both  in  the  doorways  and  in  the  gallery. 

I  trust  that  I  may  be  blessed  of  the  Lord  today,  that  I  may  express  to 
you  the  feelings  of  my  heart  with  reference  to  the  work  with  which  we 
are  identified.  After  the  wonderful  session  we  had  this  morning  I  feel 
that  it  would  be  just  too  bad  if  I  should  try  to  talk  myself  and  express 
my  own  personal  feelings,  unless  the  Lord  helps  me. 

THE  COMMANDMENTS  OF  THE  LORD  GIVEN  FOR  OUR  GOOD 

As  I  travel  around  among  the  people  I  am  sometimes  astonished  to 
find  that  some  appear  to  feel  that  they  are  doing  the  Lord  a  favor 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


25 


by  belonging  to  His  Church.  They  seem  to  have  an  idea  that  when  they 
keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  that  they  are  doing  something  to 
please  somebody  else. 

I  doubt  that  the  people  of  the  world  realize  that  the  reason  they  are 
in  the  predicament  they  are  in  today  is  because  they  have  neglected  to 
follow  the  advice  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  The  uncertainty,  the  distress, 
the  anguish  that  is  prevalent  in  so  many  parts  of  the  world  is  traceable 
directly  to  violating  His  commandments.  The  Lord,  when  He  gave  to  us 
the  Ten  Commandments,  gave  us  advice  for  our  good.  It  was  not  for 
His  benefit,  except  that  He  is  always  happy  when  we  do  right.  But  I  am 
thinking  now  of  the  commandments  that  came  down  from  Sinai :  "Thou 
shalt  honor  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  Him  only  shalt  thou  serve."  That  was 
not  to  please  Him.  The  advice  that  He  gave  in  that  regard,  and  else- 
where, has  been  for  our  good  and  for  our  benefit. 

■  When  He  commanded  us  that  we  should  honor  the  Sabbath  Day  to 
keep  it  holy,  He  only  gave  us  the  information  that  would  help  us  to 
enjoy  our  lives.  That  is  all. 

"Thou  shalt  not  steal."  When  that  commandment  was  given  it  was 
intended  that  if  people  in  this  world  would  be  honest,  that  they  would 
derive  the  benefit.  Only  this  morning  our  beloved  President  quoted  a 
portion  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  referring  to  the  laws  that 
govern  us : 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  from  before  the 
foundation  of  this  earth,  upon  which  every  blessing  is  predicated. 

So  the  Lord,  in  His  kindness,  seeing  the  attitude  of  His  children, 
and  knowing  that  they  would  need  guidance,  gave  to  us  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, and  other  commandments  that  have  been  given  from  time 
to  time,  to  help  us  to  find  happiness.  You  observe  people  running  to  and 
fro  in  the  world,  seeking  happiness  but  not  finding  it.  If  they  would  only 
pause  long  enough  to  accept  the  Lord's  advice  happiness  would  follow, 
but  they  will  find  it  in  no  other  way. 

BLESSINGS  FOLLOW  THE  KEEPING  OF  THE  COMMANDMENTS 

It  is  strange  that  any  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  should  have  to  be  urged  to  say  his  prayers,  and  yet 
there  are  some  people  who  do  not  pray  in  secret  or  have  their  family 
prayers.  Yet  unless  we  pray  we  lose  the  protection  that  prayer  offers. 
(D.  &C.  Sec.  20:32-34.) 

The  Lord  has  given  us  the  privilege  of  contributing  one-tenth  of  our 
interest,  for  His  Church,  for  the  development  of  His  work  in  the  world. 
Those  who  pay  their  tithing  receive  their  blessing.  If  we  do  not  desire  the 
blessing,  we  may  withhold  our  contribution.  The  Lord  promises  His 
blessing  if  we  honor  His  law  and  not  otherwise. 

Everything  that  He  has  asked  us  to  do  is  for  our  good,  not  for 
somebody  else's  benefit  particularly,  though,  of  course,  it  benefits  others 
when  we  set  a  good  example.  With  this  great  body  of  Priesthood  and 
the  membership  of  the  Church  assembled  here,  what  an  influence  we  ought 
to  have,  if  we  are  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  $  First  Day 

The  President  referred  to  the  fact,  this  morning,  that  there  were 
offices  in  the  Church,  and  that  men  who  hold  those  offices  ought  not  to 
expect  to  hold  them  unless  they  magnify  them.  Why?  Because  they 
receive  no  benefit  from  it,  only  as  they  keep  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  and  magnify  their  callings.  It  is  of  no  particular  advantage  to  be 
a  High  Priest  or  a  Seventy  or  an  Elder  in  this  Church,  just  to  hold  that 
office.  But  if  we  live  up  to  the  teachings  of  the  Lord,  if  we  do  what  He 
asks  us  to  do,  then  we  have  promise  of  a  blessing.  The  Lord,  all  the 
years  from  the  beginning  of  time,  has  been  ready  to  bless  His  children 
whenever  they  will  permit  Him  to  do  it. 

There  are  some  who  do  things  they  ought  not  to  do,  and  yet  they  hope 
for  a  blessing.  We  sing:  "God  Bless  America."  What  a  wonderful 
hymn  that  is !  How  beautifully  it  is  sung  in  large  congregations !  But 
God  cannot  bless  America  if  the  people  who  live  in  America  refuse  to 
keep  His  commandments.  We  must  earn  the  blessing  if  we  would 
receive  it. 

We  are  commanded  by  the  Lord  to  teach  our  children  what  they 
should  do,  that  they  should  have  faith,  that  they  should  repent,  and  that 
they  should  be  baptized  when  eight  years  of  age ;  and  He  says  that  if  we 
fail  in  our  responsibility,  the  sin  be  upon  our  heads.  What  does  that  mean  ? 
It  means,  to  me,  that  if  our  children  fall  away  because  of  our  neglect  and 
because  of  our  carelessness,  there  will  come  a  time  when  we  realize  that 
we  did  not  prepare  them  for  the  blessings  the  Lord  wanted  to  give  them, 
and  the  result  is  that  they  have  failed  to  receive  the  blessings  and  the 
sorrow  will  be  upon  our  own  heads. 

I  am  grateful  that  I  belong  to  a  church  that  does  not  compel  obedience. 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  does  not  coerce.  The 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  gospel  of  love,  intelligence,  a  wonderful  guide 
for  our  lives.  That  is  what  it  is  for.  It  is  for  everybody.  Yet  we  find 
people  who  resist  the  very  thing  that  would  make  them  happy.  They  will 
not  live  the  Gospel  but  seek  happiness  only  in  the  pleasures  of  life  that 
will  not  endure. 

I  think  this  great  organization  that  we  belong  to  ought  to  be  able  to 
set  such  an  example  that  people  in  our  neighborhoods,  not  members  of 
the  Church,  seeing  our  good  works,  would  be  constrained  to  glorify  the 
name  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  That  is  the  way  I  feel  with  regard  to  that. 
All  that  we  need  to  do  is  to  set  an  example,  be  good  men  and  good  women, 
and  they  will  observe  it.  Then  perhaps  they  will  afford  us  the  oppor- 
tunity to  teach  them  the  things  that  they  do  not  know. 

Every  blessing  that  we  desire  must  be  earned  by  obeying  the  law 
upon  which  that  blessing  is  conditioned.  Now,  we  understand  that, 
brethren  and  sisters.  How  unwise  we  are  if  we  fail,  if  we  ourselves 
decline  to  do  the  thing  that  will  earn  us  a  blessing,  when  we  know  that 
we  cannot  obtain  it  in  any  other  way  except  to  earn  it.  That  is  the  dif- 
ference in  the  attitude  of  those  who  understand  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  the  people  of  the  world.  I  have  had  people  tell  me :  "Oh,  it 
doesn't  make  so  much  difference  what  you  do.  After  a  while  everybody 
will  be  saved  in  the  Kingdom  of  God."  It  used  to  be  quite  customary 
when  I  was  in  the  mission  field  in  early  days,  to  hear  that.    That  is  what 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


27 


the  devil  is  telling  the  world.  That  is  the  way  the  Adversary  teaches.  If 
he  can  just  keep  them  doing  wrong  all  the  time,  and  neglecting  that  which 
is  right,  he  has  them  just  where  he  wants  them  to  be,  and  he  has  us  where 
he  wants  us,  when  we  fail  to  do  right. 

THE  PRIESTHOOD  TO  BE  HONORED 

To  be  ordained  to  the  Priesthood  may  not  prove  a  blessing.  We 
should  not  at  any  time  feel  that  it  will  be  a  blessing  to  us,  unless  we  honor 
it,  unless  we  magnify  it,  and  have  in  our  hearts  the  desire  that  the  Lord 
intended  we  should  have,  when  He  bestowed  that  gift  upon  us,  and  we 
should  always  desire  to  do  good. 

What  a  wonderful  group  we  have  enrolled  in  this  organization! 
Lovers  of  all  that  is  good  and  beautiful,  marvelous  choirs  that  come  from 
different  parts  of  the  Church  to  sing  for  us  here ;  to  supplement  the  de- 
light that  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  give  to  us ;  this  lovely  build- 
ing in  which  to  meet,  not  another  like  it  in  the  world.  We  have  every 
blessing  that  the  world  has  anywhere,  plus  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Of  course,  the  world  does  not  understand  it  if  we  say  it  that  way,  but  we 
ought  to  understand  it.  Everything  that  I  can  find  that  is  good  in  any- 
church  in  all  the  world,  is  a  part  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  No 
other  church  can  say  that. 

This  is  the  Lord's  Church.  I  sometimes  hear  people  speak  of  it 
as  "our  church."  This  is  the  Lord's  Church.  Our  Heavenly  Father 
ordained  that  it  should  come  at  this  particular  period  of  the  world's 
history,  and  He  directed  that  it  receive  the  name  of  His  beloved  Son. 
Fortunate  are  we  if  while  we  are  members  of  it  we  live  up  to  the  op- 
portunities that  it  offers,  lest  we  fall  into  transgression  and  lose  our  faith 
and  forfeit  the  blessing  that  the  Lord  desired  us  to  possess. 

ADVICE  TO  SEEK  FOR  IMPROVEMENT 

Now,  brethren,  let  us  do  better  than  we  have  ever  done  before.  Let 
us  renew  our  determination  to  be  real  Latter-day  Saints,  and  not  just 
make-believe.  I  do  not  think  I  ought  to  be  talking  just  like  that  to  this 
group,  because  I  feel  that  perhaps  the  cream  of  the  Church,  very  much 
of  it,  is  in  this  building;  but  I  do  not  know  anybody  who  can  not  do  a 
little  better  than  he  has  been  doing,  if  he  makes  up  his  mind. 

I  think  that  with  the  distress  everywhere,  with  the  prediction  that  the 
Lord  made  in  the  first  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that 
"peace  should  be  taken  from  the  earth,"  we  must  feel  that  that  time  has 
come.  Surely  we  ought  to  take  stock  of  ourselves,  and  our  homes  should 
be  the  abiding  place  of  prayer  and  gratitude  and  thanksgiving.  Husbands 
should  be  kind  to  their  wives,  and  wives  considerate  of  their  husbands. 
Parents  should  hold  the  love  of  their  children  by  their  righteous  living. 
Our  homes  would  then  not  only  be  the  abiding  place  of  prayer  and  thanks- 
giving, but  would  be  the  place  where  our  Father  could  bestow  His 
choicest  blessings,  because  of  our  worthiness. 

I  pray  that  the  peace  that  cometh  from  our  Heavenly  Father  may 
abide  in  our  hearts  and  in  our  homes,  that  we  who  have  been  honored  by 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  i  First  Day 

fellowship  in  the  Church  of  His  Beloved  Son  may  appreciate  that  honor 
every  day,  and  so  live  when  the  race  is  run  that  we  shall  have  earned  an 
inheritance  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom.  We  must  not  surrender  to  tempta- 
tion, but  should  meet  our  problems  in  the  spirit  of  love  and  kindness 
toward  all  men,  ever  serving  God  and  keeping  His  commandments.  And 
we  are  always  serving  Him  when  we  are  blessing  our  kind ;  do  not  forget 
that. 

FAITH  SHOWN  BY  GOOD  WORKS 

We  cannot  expect  to  earn  blessings  without  earnest  effort.  We 
will  be  required  to  make  what  appears  to  some  to  be  sacrifices.  I  sup- 
pose people  think  when  they  pay  their  tithing  that  they  are  making  a 
sacrifice,  but  they  are  not ;  they  are  making  a  real  investment  that  will 
return  an  eternal  dividend.  Our  Heavenly  Father  gives  us  all  that  we 
have.  He  places  all  in  our  hands,  authorizing  us  to  retain  for  our  own 
use  nine-tenths  of  it,  and  then  He  asks  that  we  put  His  tenth  where  He 
directs,  where  He  knows  it  will  accomplish  the  most  good  in  developing 
His  Church. 

When  we  heard  the  reports  this  morning  of  this  great  Church,  the 
financial  report  impressed  me  much.  To  know  that  a  great  organization 
like  this,  with  its  multitudes  of  people,  functioning  in  so  many  ways,  in 
the  midst  of  the  world's  turmoil  and  distress  is  in  such  a  condition  that 
one  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  could  stand  here  and  truthfully 
say  to  us  this  Church  is  out  of  debt.  With  the  nations  and  most  of  the 
people  in  debt,  yet  the  Church  has  been  so  managed  that  it  is  out  of  debt. 
Let  us  think  about  it.  Let  us  sustain  the  Church.  Let  us  follow  the 
advice  of  the  leadership  of  the  Church.  Let  us  so  live  that  the  Lord 
can  bless  us  as  He  blesses  the  Church. 

The  Lord  gave  one  commandment  to  the  people,  in  which  He  said 
this  was  the  only  church  in  all  the  world  that  He  is  well  pleased  with, 
and  He  emphasized  that  by  saying,  or  inferring  at  least,  that  that  did  not 
mean  individually.  That  meant  the  Church  as  a  whole.  But  how  won- 
derful it  would  be  if  He  could  say  of  us  that  He  is  pleased  with  all  of  us 
as  individuals. 

God  grant  that  we  may  so  live  and  let  our  light  so  shine  that  others, 
seeing  our  good  works,  will  be  constrained  to  glorify  His  name.  Let 
there  be  in  our  hearts  love  and  compassion  and  consideration  and  charity 
for  every  soul  that  we  come  in  contact  with.  Then  we  can  consistently 
kneel  down  in  our  own  homes  and  invoke  the  favor  of  the  Lord  upon 
those  that  we  love,  and  upon  all  those  with  whom  we  associate,  and  when 
life's  labor  is  complete  may  we  find  that  we  have  listened  to  the  whisper- 
ing of  that  still,  small  voice  that  always  guides  us  in  the  path  of  righteous- 
ness, and  know  that  it  has  meant  for  us  the  opening  of  the  door  to  the 
Celestial  kingdom,  for  ourselves  and  those  we  love,  to  go  forward 
throughout  the  ages,  not  unhappy  eternally,  but  happy  eternally,  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


29 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  with  a  sense  of  extreme  re- 
sponsibility that  I  stand  before  you  here  this  afternoon,  realizing  that 
to  take  your  time  is  a  responsible  thing.  I  pray  that  you  may  all  give 
me  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  the  short  time  I  stand 
before  you  I  may  enjoy  a  portion  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

LOVE  EXPRESSED  FOR  LEADERS 

I  am  extremely  grateful  this  afternoon  for  the  privilege  I  had  this 
morning  of  listening  to  the  testimony  of  my  beloved  uncle,  the  President 
of  the  Church.  I  hope  he  knows  how  deeply  we  all  love  him.  I  want 
to  tell  him  that  the  Lord  cannot  extend  his  years  too  long  to  please  us, 
who  are  so  near  to  him.  I  believe  that  I  echo  the  sentiments  of  this  vast 
congregation  when  I  say  that. 

I  am  thankful,  likewise,  that  the  Lord  has  seen  fit  to  spare  to  us, 
in  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  our  very  beloved  Senior  President, 
Brother  Wells.  There  is  nobody  whom  we  love  more  than  we  do  these 
men,  and  we  would  put  with  them  Brother  Clawson,  who  stands  at  the 
head  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  We  associate  with  them  very  closely. 
We  know  their  integrity  and  their  devotion  to  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
and  we  would  have  naught  but  peace  and  joy,  happiness  and  success  to 
crown  their  future  years. 

JOY  IN  MINISTERING  AMONG  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

As  we  move  about  among  the  people  we  strive  to  serve  you  to  the 
very  best  of  our  ability,  realizing  that  we  are  your  servants  as  well  as 
the  servants  of  God,  our  Heavenly  Father.  We  make  very  many  fine 
friends.  I  see  many  of  them  in  the  audience  today,  and  I  want  to  thank 
them  for  the  kindly  ministry  that  they  have  given  unto  us  as  we  move 
about. 

In  these  visits  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  talk  with  a  great  many 
of  the  officers  of  the  Church,  and  to  study  the  conditions  that  prevail 
throughout  the  Church,  and  I  believe  that  we  have  the  finest  people  on 
the  earth,  the  finest  because  they  have  the  purest  belief  in  God,  our 
Heavenly  Father,  a  God  to  whom  we  can  actually  call  for  blessings,  who 
will  recognize  that  call,  and  minister  unto  us  according  to  our  wants. 

We  would  like,  if  we  could,  to  find  ways  and  means  of  helping  each 
other  to  live  nearer  and  closer  to  God  our  Heavenly  Father,  to  observe 
better  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  which  we  know  to  be  the  principles 
of  life  and  salvation,  life  here  in  the  earth,  which  will  give  us  the  very 
fullest  possible  growth  and  development,  and  a  life  hereafter,  with  our 
Heavenly  Father.  We  struggle  and  we  strive,  with  this  aim  and  purpose. 
Sometimes  we  feel  that  we  do  not  have  a  very  great  measure  of  success. 
But  then  frequently  we  find  that  we  do  sow  seeds  that  grow  and  flourish 
and  produce  happiness  and  joy  in  the  hearts  of  the  people.    That,  it 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  First  Day 

seems  to  me,  is  our  major  purpose — to  help  you  to  help  each  other  to 
greater  joy  and  happiness  and  success. 

MELCHIZEDEK  PRIESTHOOD  COMPARISONS 

One  thing  I  have  noticed,  as  I  move  about  among  the  people,  that 
I  think  maybe  it  would  be  worthwhile  to  call  to  your  attention.  You 
know  we  minister  in  the  Priesthood  especially,  and  we  check  the  activities 
of  the  Priesthood  throughout  the  Church.  For  more  than  a  year  I  have 
been  comparing  the  number  of  men  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood, 
in  the  different  Stakes  which  I  have  visited,  with  the  number  of  families 
in  the  Stakes.  It  startled  me  almost  past  belief,  the  other  day,  to  find  in 
one  Stake  that  I  visited  that  there  were  possibly  only  43  out  of  100  fam- 
ilies with  a  representative  in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 

Now,  if  we  had  an  ideal  condition  prevailing,  the  only  families  not 
represented  in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  would  be  the  families  of 
widows,  because  all  of  the  men  who  are  married  would  marry  in  the 
Temple,  and  all  the  young  women  who  would  marry  would  marry  men 
who  would  marry  in  the  Temple.    But  that  does  not  seem  to  prevail. 

When  there  are  as  many,  or  as  few  as  43  out  of  100  represented  in 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  there  seems  to  be  a  condition  that  we  might 
well  pay  attention  to.  It  runs  all  the  way  from  43  to  above  95.  I  visited 
one  Stake  where  that  comparison  was  as  high  as  95.  That  seems  to  me 
to  be  almost  an  ideal  condition.  Now,  somewhere  in  between  there  will 
be  a  happy  medium.  That  is  what  we  ought  to  seek,  at  least  the  happy 
medium.  Let  us  strive  to  increase  that  proportion,  by  teaching  our 
young  people  the  advisability  of  marrying  within  the  Church.  Then  let 
us  strive  to  increase  it  further  by  teaching  our  young  people  the  advan- 
tage of  working  in  the  quorums  of  the  Priesthood,  so  that  when  the  time 
comes  that  they  care  to  marry,  they  can  be  married  in  the  Temple, 
having  been  made  Elders  in  the  Church. 

It  seems  to  me  that  those  things  merit  our  consideration.  Just  why 
it  is  that  that  proportion  is  so  low  in  some  places,  I  do  not  know  that  I  can 
say,  but  I  believe  it  is  because  of  the  environment  in  which  the  young 
people  live  in  those  Stakes,  that  most  of  their  associations  are  outside  of 
the  Church,  and  consequently  many  of  them  are  marrying  outside  of 
the  Church.  Now,  it  so  happens  that  occasionally  a  marriage  of  this 
kind  is  rectified  because  the  non-member  party  to  the  marriage  eventually 
comes  into  the  Church  through  conversion.  It  seems  to  me,  however, 
that  it  would  be  infinitely  better  for  that  conversion  to  be  realized  be- 
forehand.  Isn't  it  a  serious  consideration? 

THE  TEACHING  OF  MARRIAGE  IN  THE  TEMPLE  MOST  DESIRABLE 

We  have  those  two  fields  of  labor,  then,  for  our  Stake  missionaries, 
for  instance,  and  especially  for  our  fathers  and  mothers,  to  teach  their 
young  people  that  it  is  a  highly  desirable  thing  to  marry  within  the 
Church,  to  marry  people  whose  sympathies  are  like  yours,  whose  faith 
is  like  yours,  who  understand  you,  and  whom  you  can  understand.  And 
then  to  teach  these  young  men  their  duties,  so  that  this  group,  which  we 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


31 


call  the  Adult  Aaronic  Priesthood  group,  will  shrink  to  the  vanishing 
point.  It  would  be  a  wonderful  thing  if  we  could  accomplish  that  one 
thing  within  the  Church.  If  we  could  do  it,  even  to  reduce  it  just  a 
little,  within  the  next  year,  think  what  a  wonderful  project  that  would 
be  within  our  Stakes  and  within  our  families. 

There  is  nothing  we  could  do,  perhaps,  that  would  help  our  young 
people  to  a  better  realization  of  their  possibilities,  than  to  so  teach  them 
that  they  would  marry  in  the  Temple.  There  is  nothing  that  I  have  ever 
been  more  grateful  for  than  that  privilege,  the  privilege  of  being  sealed 
to  my  wife  for  not  only  this  life  but  for  an  eternity  which  is  to  come. 
The  very  sanctity  and  sacredness  of  that  thing  is  one  of  the  greatest  sup- 
ports that  we  could  have  in  life.  It  is  one  of  the  very  finest  objectives  that 
we  could  have  in  dealing  with  our  young  people.  Now,  to  impress  upon 
them  the  sanctity  of  it  and  the  desirability  of  it,  we  have  to  teach  them 
some  other  things. 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  LEADERS  TOWARDS  THE  YOUNG 

There  are  far  too  many  of  us  who  fail  to  teach  our  young  people 
the  law  of  chastity.  Nothing  in  a  man's  life,  or  that  of  a  woman,  can 
give  the  satisfaction  and  the  joy  that  comes  from  the  realization  that 
your  life  has  been  a  chaste  and  upright  life.  These  young  people  are  placed 
in  our  trust,  and  we  have  a  responsibility  towards  them.  If  we  can  in- 
crease their  happiness,  their  joy  and  their  safety,  by  teaching  them  these 
things,  it  is  a  sacred  duty  on  our  part  to  do  it.  Let  us  never  let  a  son  or 
daughter  of  ours,  who  may  be  found  in  sin,  be  able  to  say  to  us  that  either 
for  lack  of  teaching  or  by  example  we  are  responsible  for  his  or  her 
downfall. 

I  hope  that  we  may  be  able  to  so  instill  in  their  hearts  a  love  for 
these  things  that  such  practices  as  repeatedly  come  to  our  notice,  where 
men  fail  in  this  respect,  will  likewise  diminish  to  the  vanishing  point.  I 
would  that  every  man  and  woman  in  the  Church  were  able  to  bow  their 
heads  before  God,  their  Heavenly  Father,  and  swear  that  they  are  chaste 
and  upright. 

I  compliment  you  fathers  and  mothers  on  the  great  numbers  of 
your  boys  and  girls  who  can  look  us,  their  Presiding  Authorities,  in  the 
eye,  and  swear  that  they  are  clean,  before  they  go  on  their  missions.  I 
do  not  know  any  place  in  the  world  where  you  could  find  as  high  a  per- 
centage of  men  and  women  that  can  do  so.  But  as  near  perfect  as  that 
may  be,  we  might  increase  it.  We  might  make  that  better,  with  just  a 
little  more  care  given  to  our  young  people.  I  pray  that  God  will  give  us 
the  strength  and  the  courage  and  the  frankness  to  meet  them  on  com- 
mon ground,  and  teach  them  the  way  of  life.   God  bless  you.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fust  Day 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 


Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  enjoy  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  this  afternoon,  for  no  one  can  hold  this  position  and 
address  an  audience  without  that  Spirit  which  will  bear  testimony  to  all 
of  us  that  this  is  His  work. 


In  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live  the  many  complicated  situa- 
tions which  arise  bring  us  more  than  ever  face  to  face  with  the  fact  that 
we  are  all  individually  responsible  for  our  acts.  I  believe  that  I  have 
an  individual  responsibility  as  well  as  an  opportunity  to  do  what  the 
Lord  would  have  me  do,  and  that  I  have  also  the  duty  to  encourage  others 
to  do  likewise.   They  in  turn  have  the  same  privilege. 

I  do  not  believe  as  many  do  that  the  grave  is  the  great  common 
leveler,  but  rather  that  as  we  live  and  journey  through  this  life,  so  shall 
we  begin  on  the  other  side ;  that  we  shall  begin  where  we  left  off  here ; 
that  we  cannot  change  the  life  that  we  have  established;  that  it  will 
take  time  for  men  and  women  to  change  their  methods  of  living.  I  believe 
in  the  Prophet  Alma's  words,  that  this  life  is  the  time  for  men  and  women 
to  prepare  to  meet  God : 

Yea,  behold,  the  day  of  this  life  is  the  day  for  men  to  perform 
their  labors. 

Alma  continues : 

Ye  cannot  say  contrary  to  this,  for  that  same  spirit  which  doth 
possess  your  body  at  the  time  of  death,  at  the  time  that  ye  go  out  of 
this  life,  that  same  spirit  shall  possess  your  body  in  the  life  to  come. 

It  is  a  mistake  for  men  and  women  to  believe,  as  many  are  taught 
in  the  world,  that  when  we  pass  away  we  will  go  immediately  into  the 
presence  of  the  Lord,  there  to  remain.  It  is  not  so  written,  but  it  is  writ- 
ten that  we  shall  go  into  that  spirit  world,  and  that  the  life  that  we  have 
lived,  the  knowledge  that  we  have  acquired,  will  be  with  us  there,  and 
shall  be  with  us  and  for  us  in  that  life  where  we  shall  go. 


We  came  into  this  world  and  took  upon  ourselves  these  bodies  of 
flesh  and  bones  willingly.  We  came  here,  away  from  home,  to  perform 
a  work,  and  to  test  our  strength.  The  Lord  sent  us  on  this  mission.  I 
have  always  felt  that  this  experience  in  mortality  is  more  or  less  a  mis- 
sionary experience.  He  governs  and  controls  the  destinies  of  the  human 
family,  according  to  their  faith  in  Him  and  according  to  their  work,  and 
that  training  they  received,  and  that  obedience  which  they  yielded  in 
that  eternal  world  from  whence  we  all  came,  had  much  to  do  with  the 
shaping  of  their  destiny  here. 

I  do  not  place  credence  in  the  thought  that  things  come  by  chance 


RESPONSIBILITY  FOR  OPPORTUNITIES 


EARTHLY  LIFE  A  MISSION 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BEN  N I  ON 


33 


or  by  luck.  I  doubt  very  much  if  there  is  any  such  thing.  I  think  the 
Lord's  plan  is  an  orderly  one,  which  He  made  before  the  foundation  of 
this  earth  was  laid.  I  believe  with  all  my  heart  in  the  testimony  of  the 
great  prophets,  that  we  were  in  that  world,  and  that  we  shouted  for  joy 
at  the  time  when  the  Son  of  Man  was  selected  to  go  into  the  world  and 
preach  the  Gospel  of  peace  among  the  children  of  men,  that  men  who 
would  might  have  a  chance  to  prove  themselves  while  they  were  in 
mortality. 

I  repeat  that  I  am  strong  for  individuality.  I  believe  in  it  in  business 
and  in  government.  I  believe  in  it  in  my  Church  relationships.  I  am  fully 
converted  to  Alma's  statement  that  this  is  the  time  for  men  to  prepare 
to  meet  God,  and  that  that  same  spirit  which  possesses  our  bodies  when  we 
go  out  of  this  world,  that  same  spirit  and  experience  and  training,  will  go 
with  us  into  the  world  to  come.  It  will  be  there  as  an  asset  unto  us.  If 
we  have  not  kept  the  commandments  of  God  and  made  good  use  of  our 
time,  then  we  have  failed  that  much,  and  we  have  to  that  extent  retarded 
His  plan,  for  after  all  that  plan  is  based  upon  the  faith  and  works  mani- 
fested by  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God. 

THE  KEYS  OF  AUTHORITY  RESTORED 

The  Lord  has  established  in  your  day  and  mine  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  He  gave  it  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who  was  divinely  ap- 
pointed to  become  the  great  Prophet  of  this  dispensation  of  the  fulness 
of  times.  It  was  through  him  the  Gospel  was  to  be  taught  in  all  the 
world.  The  Lord  brought  into  the  world  the  authority  that  He  gave 
to  Joseph  the  Prophet,  and  He  established  it  through  those  men  who  ap- 
peared unto  the  Prophet  and  gave  the  keys  to  him.  This  is  the  authority 
to  act  in  the  name  of  God.  This  is  the  Holy  Priesthood,  and  to  know  this 
and  to  live  in  accordance  with  it  is  life  eternal  for  the  children  of  men. 

There  are  thousands  and  millions  of  good  men  and  fine  women  in 
this  world.  They  can  only  be  reached  by  those  who  know  the  truth.  A 
man  who  does  not  have  a  testimony  of  this  Gospel  cannot  bear  it  to  others. 
He  cannot  establish  faith  in  the  heart  of  another  man  or  woman  unless 
he  possesses  that  faith  himself.  He  must  have  a  knowledge  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  this  divine  plan  called  Mormonism, 
was  instituted  by  our  Father  in  Heaven,  and  that  it  is  the  work  of  God. 
He  must  feel  this  and  know  it.  Then  he  can  have  influence  with  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  and  by  the  power  of  his  example,  which  often  precedes 
precept,  he  can  establish  faith  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 

This  is  the  mission  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  If  men  procrastinate,  if  they  continue  to  be  wicked,  they  cannot 
hope  to  inherit  these  blessings.  Let  me  read  what  Alma  further  says 
about  this : 

For  behold,  if  ye  have  procrastinated  the  day  of  your  repentance 
even  until  death,  behold,  ye  have  become  subjected  to  the  spirit  of  the 
devil,  and  he  doth  seal  you  his;  therefore,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  hath 
withdrawn  from  you,  and  hath  no  place  in  you,  and  the  devil  hath  all 
power  over  you;  and  this  is  the  final  state  of  the  wicked. 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  First  Day 

EVIL  HABITS  LEAD  MEN  ASTRAY 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  look  well  to  the  habits  we  form.  If 
they  are  evil  habits,  and  if  we  do  not  repent  of  them  and  put  them  from 
us,  they  become  a  great  part  of  us  and  it  is  not  easy  to  shake  them  off  or 
to  forget  them.  It  is  not  easy  for  men  and  women  to  get  away  from  the 
vices  of  sin.  The  drinking  of  alcohol,  for  example,  leads  them  into  ter- 
rible conditions,  often  into  destruction.  That  same  principle  will  apply 
to  every  habit  or  form  of  sin  that  a  man  or  a  woman  may  acquire  here 
in  mortality.  That  is  the  thing  I  think  that  our  great  prophet  Alma 
had  in  mind. 

ADVICE  GIVEN  BY  THE  PROPHET  ALMA 

Alma  offers  some  very  encouraging  advice  in  these  words : 

Counsel  with  the  Lord  in  all  thy  doings,  and  He  will  direct  thee 
for  good;  yea,  when  ye  liest  down  at  night  lie  down  unto  the  Lord, 
that  he  may  watch  over  you  in  your  sleep;  and  when  thou  risest  in  the 
morning  let  thy  heart  be  full  of  thanks  unto  God;  and  if  ye  do  these 
things,  ye  shall  be  lifted  up  at  the  last  day. 

That  is  the  promise  that  He  offers  to  men  and  women  who  will  fol- 
low the  Lord  and  counsel  with  Him,  who  will  attend  to  prayer,  who  will 
attend  to  their  offerings,  who  will  walk  uprightly,  as  carefully  as  men 
and  women  may  in  mortality.  And  he  said :  "Ye  shall  be  lifted  up  at  the 
last  day." 

A  GREAT  PROMISE 

As  I  read  these  words  my  mind  was  drawn,  and  has  been  drawn 
many  times  to  a  passage  of  scripture  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in 
the  y3rd  section,  the  first  verse.  I  heard  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  read 
it  once  when  I  was  in  Conference,  and  I  believed  it  was  directed  to  me. 
I  read  it  to  you : 

Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord:  It  shall  come  to  pass  that  every  soul 
who  forsaketh  his  sins  and  cometh  unto  me,  and  calleth  on  my  name, 
and  obeyeth  my  voice,  and  keepeth  my  commandments,  shall  see  my 
face  and  know  that  I  am. 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  that  is  one 
of  the  greatest  promises  the  Lord  could  offer.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing  for 
us  to  know  that,  and  to  know  that  it  will  absolutely  come  to  pass.  It  fills 
us  with  joy  to  know  that  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  and  that  He  is  our  Father's  Son ;  that  He  established  faith  among 
the  children  of  men  and  raised  up  a  righteous  heritage  here  in  the  earth, 
to  establish  His  Cause  in  the  great  world  in  which  we  live,  and  that  if 
we  are  worthy  we  may  one  day  look  upon  His  face. 

THE  VALUE  OF  TRUTH 

It  is  a  glorious  thing  to  know  the  Truth.  It  is  a  glorious  thing  to 
live  it.  It  is  a  fine  thing  to  meet  men,  regardless  of  where  we  may  travel, 
and  to  let  them  know  and  feel  in  their  hearts  that  we  believe  in  the  Gospel 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


35 


plan  and  that  we  teach  it  and  live  it.  By  it  we  may  bring  souls  unto 
Christ. 

I  have  lived  in  the  shadow  of  the  prophets  for  many  years.  I  have 
heard  their  testimonies.  It  is  a  marvelous  thing  to  hear  the  testimony  of 
President  Grant.  I  talked  to  a  person  who  heard  his  voice  this  morning 
over  the  radio.  He  said  it  was  inspiring  and  that  he  was  deeply  touched 
when,  in  his  humility,  the  President  manifested  emotion.  The  testimony 
of  Jesus  was  there.  What  more  could  men  and  women  ask  for  or  hope 
for  than  to  know  these  things  ?  "For  this  is  life  eternal,"  said  the  Savior 
in  His  day,  "to  know  thee,  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom 
thou  has  sent." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  living  in  a  day  of  great  trouble  and  dis- 
tress, but  we  have  the  power  to  use  our  free  agency,  stand  for  the  things 
we  know  are  right,  and  to  establish  faith  among  the  children  of  men. 
Let  us  not  be  fearful  of  saying  "No"  when  we  ought  to  say  it.  Let  us 
stand  for  the  truth  and  uphold  the  hands  of  the  prophet  of  the  living 
God  and  those  who  are  associated  with  him,  for  this  is  the  work  of  God. 
The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  "Jesu,  Word  of  God" — Mozart. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

This  is  a  most  wonderful  sight,  and  this  is  a  most  important  posi- 
tion which  I  occupy.  In  looking  into  your  faces  I  feel  very  much  my 
weakness  and  dependence  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  I  trust  that 
I  may  have  your  faith  and  prayers  in  what  I  may  say. 

There  are  a  great  many  principles  that  concern  us  very  deeply,  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel.  We  have  assembled  here  for  the  purpose  of 
being  instructed,  guided  and  built  up  in  the  faith.  It  is  impossible  for  one 
individual,  in  the  limited  time,  to  attempt  to  cover  many  of  these  prin- 
ciples of  eternal  truth.  I  have  been  delighted  in  all  that  we  have  heard. 
We  have  heard  much  already  of  the  greatest  importance,  which  I  humbly 
hope  we  will  put  into  practice,  if  we  have  not  already  been  practicing 
these  principles  of  righteousness  which  have  been  mentioned  here  this 
afternoon. 

I  am  inclined,  at  this  particular  moment,  to  continue  something 
along  the  line  of  the  remarks  that  were  made  by  Brother  Ivins,  for  I 
believe  that  he  touched  upon  one  of  the  most  important  things  that  con- 
cern the  Latter-day  Saints — marriage. 

KEEPING  THE  COMMANDMENTS  IMPORTANT 

We  have  a  great  many  people  in  the  Church  who  would  not  think  for 
a  moment  of  stealing.  They  would  not  lie.  They  would  never  think 
of  purposely  injuring  a  neighbor,  and  they  might  be  considered,  of  course, 
to  be  good  citizens,  because  in  all  their  acts  they  show  the  spirit  of  honesty 
and  integrity  so  far  as  their  dealings  with  their  fellow  men  are  concern- 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  First  Day 

ed.  But  they  do  not  feel  that  they  have  violated  any  principle  of  justice 
or  right,  when  they  violate  some  of  the  most  important  commandments 
that  the  Lord  has  given  us. 

MARRIAGE  FOR  TIME  NOT  APPROVED 

Frequently  I  receive  an  invitation  to  attend  a  wedding.  I  look  in  the 
newspaper  and  I  see  the  picture  of  a  beautiful  young  lady,  and  the  an- 
nouncement made  that  she  is  going  to  be  married,  and  perhaps,  she  being 
a  member  of  the  Church,  she  is  going  to  marry  also  a  member  of  the 
Church,  but  that  the  ceremony  is  going  to  be  performed  at  the  home  of 
the  bride,  or  at  some  other  place  selected  by  them,  outside  of  the  Temple 
of  the  Lord. 

While  the  invitation  that  comes  to  me  no  doubt  is  sent  in  the  spirit 
of  kindness,  I  always  feel  that  I  would  rather  not  receive  it,  because  I 
do  not  want  to  lend  to  a  wedding  of  that  kind  even  my  presence,  because 
I  consider  marriage,  as  the  Lord  has  given  it  to  the  Church,  one  of  the 
most  vital  and  one  of  the  most  sacred  principles  that  has  ever  been  reveal- 
ed. And  when  we  violate  that  covenant,  or  refuse  to  enter  into  that 
covenant,  we  are  transgressors  of  the  law. 

We  read  in  the  scriptures  that  sin  is  the  transgression  of  the  law. 
Now,  these  people  who  marry  by  what  we  call  civil  ceremony,  in  other 
words,  who  are  married  by  the  Justice  of  the  Peace,  or  by  an  Elder  of 
the  Church,  the  Bishop  or  the  President  of  the  Stake,  outside  of  the 
Temple  of  the  Lord,  can  only  be  married  for  time.  That  is  all.  The 
Lord  has  commanded  us,  as  it  is  recorded  in  the  revelations,  that  mar- 
riage among  members  of  the  Church  should  be  performed  in  His  Holy 
House,  and  not  for  time  only,  but  for  time  and  all  eternity.  Therefore, 
those  who  are  satisfied  to  receive  a  ceremony  for  time  only,  uniting  them 
for  this  life,  and  are  content  with  that,  are  ignorant  of  this  fundamental 
principle  of  the  Gospel  and  its  consequences,  or  they  are  in  rebellion 

against  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 
t 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  PARENTS 

Now,  what  I  want  to  say  is  intended  very  largely  for  the  parents  of 
the  young  people.  I  think  the  parents,  perhaps,  are  more  to  be  blamed, 
because,  in  many  instances,  very  many  instances,  they  have  not  taught 
their  children  the  sacredness  of  the  marriage  covenant.  I  want  to  read 
to  you  one  or  two  things  that  are  written  in  the  revelations.  I  hope  that 
my  words  will  carry  to  those  who  contemplate  entering  into  this  sacred 
ordinance,  and  if  they  have  intended  to  have  the  ceremony  performed  in 
some  other  way,  rather  than  that  which  the  Lord  has  indicated,  that  they 
will  take  heed  and  repent,  that  they  may  receive  the  blessings. 

COVENANTS  NOT  OF  GOD  END  WITH  LIFE 

I  am  the  Lord  thy  God;  and  I  give  unto  you  this  commandment — 
that  no  man  shall  come  unto  the  Father  but  by  me  or  by  my  word, 
which  is  my  law,  saith  the  Lord. 

And  everything  that  is  in  the  world,  whether  it  be  ordained  of 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


37 


men,  by  thrones,  or  principalities,  or  powers,  or  things  of  name,  what- 
soever they  may  be,  that  are  not  by  me  or  by  my  word,  saith  the 
Lord,  shall  be  thrown  down,  and  shall  not  remain  after  men  are  dead, 
neither  in  nor  after  the  resurrection,  saith  the  Lord  your  God. 

For  whatsoever  things  remain  are  by  me;  and  whatsoever  things 
are  not  by  me  shall  be  shaken  and  destroyed. 

I  have  read  to  you  a  fundamental  truth,  a  self-evident  truth.  Any 
one,  it  seems  to  me,  who  believes  in  a  Supreme  Being,  must  acknowledge 
the  fact  that  any  covenant  or  obligation,  bond,  vow  or  performance,  that 
is  not  in  accord  with  the  law  which  has  been  decreed  by  the  Supreme 
Being,  must  of  necessity  come  to  an  end.  I  can  see  no  grounds  for  argu- 
ment in  regard  to  that.   That  is  a  fundamental  truth. 

The  Lord  continues  in  this  revelation  and  says : 

Therefore,  if  a  man  marry  him  a  wife  in  the  world,  and  he 
marry  her  not  by  me  nor  by  my  word,  and  he  covenant  with  her  so 
long  as  he  is  in  the  world  and  she  with  him,  their  covenant  and  mar- 
riage are  not  of  force  when  they  are  dead,  and  when  they  are  out  of 
the  world;  therefore  they  are  not  bound  by  any  law  when  they  are 
out  of  the  world. 

While  the  Church,  as  well  as  the  world,  would  recognize  that  marriage 
while  they  are  in  the  world,  yet  the  fact  remains  that  when  they  are  dead 
the  marriage  comes  to  an  end. 

Therefore  when  they  are  out  of  the  world  they  neither  marry  nor 
are  given  in  marriage;  but  are  appointed  angels  in  heaven;  which 
angels  are  ministering  servants,  to  minister  for  those  who  are  worthy 
of  a  far  more,  and  an  exceeding  and  an  eternal  weight  of  glory. 

I  take  it  that  this  has  reference  to  those  who  have  been  just  and 
honest  and  have  been  willing  to  keep  other  covenants  and  commandments 
the  Lord  has  given  them.  They  are  members  of  the  Church,  but  have  not 
been  willing  to  enter  into  this  great  and  crowning  covenant,  if  you  please, 
which  would  exalt  them  to  be  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God.  And 
therefore,  as  I  read  further : 

For  these  angels  did  not  abide  my  law;  therefore,  they  cannot  be 
enlarged,  but  remain  separately  and  singly,  without  exaltation,  in  their 
saved  condition,  to  all  eternity;  and  from  henceforth  are  not  gods,  but 
are  angels  of  God  forever  and  ever. 

Forever  and  ever !  Think  of  it !  It  fills  my  heart  with  sadness  when 
I  see  in  the  paper  the  name  of  a  daughter  or  a  son  of  members  of  this 
Church,  and  discover  that  she  or  he  is  going  to  have  a  ceremony  and  be 
married  outside  of  the  Temple  of  the  Lord,  because  I  realize  what  it 
means,  that  they  are  cutting  themselves  off  from  exaltation  in  the  King- 
dom of  God. 

Now,  again,  the  Lord  continues,  in  this  revelation,  to  say  that  if 
they  are  married  by  His  word,  then  they  shall  pass  on  to  the  exaltation, 
and  that  exaltation  is  a  fulness  and  a  continuation  of  the  seeds  forever. 
In  other  words,  the  family  organization  is  intact  throughout  all  eternity, 
and  there  shall  be  eternal  increase, — and  that  is  the  crowning  glory,  if 
you  please,  in  the  Kingdom  of  God. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Again : 


Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  except  ye  abide  my  law  ye  cannot 
attain  to  this  glory. 

For  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  the  way  that  leadeth  unto  the 
exaltation  and  continuation  of  the  lives,  and  few  there  be  that  find  it, 
because  ye  receive  me  not  in  the  world,  neither  do  ye  know  me. 

But  if  ye  receive  me  in  the  world,  then  shall  ye  know  me,  and 
shall  receive  your  exaltation;  that  where  I  am  ye  shall  be  also. 

This  is  eternal  lives — to  know  the  only  wise  and  true  God,  and 
Jesus  Christ,  whom  He  hath  sent.  I  am  He.  Receive  ye,  therefore, 
my  law. 


What  do  you  get  of  that?  This  fact,  that  the  marriage  for  eternity 
grants  unto  us  the  privilege  of  eternal  lives.  It  does  not  have  reference 
to  our  existence  hereafter,  for  every  man  will  live  eternally  ;  it  is  the  con- 
tinuation of  the  seeds  forever,  which  constitutes  eternal  lives. 

Broad  is  the  gate,  and  wide  the  way  that  leadeth  to  the  deaths; 
and  many  there  are  that  go  in  thereat,  because  they  receive  me  not, 
neither  do  they  abide  in  my  law. 

What  is  meant  by  the  expression  "to  the  deaths"  ?  It  means  to  be 
stopped,  to  be  shut  off,  to  be  denied  the  privilege  of  eternal  increase.  That 
is  the  deaths,  and  a  great  majority  of  mankind  will  go  on  into  the  eternity, 
to  partake  of  the  deaths,  which  means  a  stoppage,  cutting  off  from  these 
great  blessings,  which  shall  be  bestowed  upon  those  who  are  willing  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  May  parents  teach  their 
children,  that  they  may  understand  this  thing,  that  they  might  walk  in 
the  light  of  the  truth,  and  that  this  evil  that  exists  among  us  may  come 
to  an  end,  and  that  the  fathers  and  mothers  may  rejoice  when  their 
children  are  married  by  some  one  who  can  seal  them  for  time  and  for 
all  eternity. 


President  Joseph  F.  Smith  has  said — I  have  heard  him  say  it  to  the 
members  of  his  family  and  elsewhere — that  he  would  rather  take  his 
children  to  the  grave,  one  by  one,  and  lay  them  away,  knowing  that  they 
would  come  forth  worthy  to  receive  the  fulness  of  the  kingdom  of  God, 
than  to  have  them  marry  outside  of  the  temple  of  the  Lord,  and  deny 
themselves  these  privileges. 

Of  course,  a  person  who  marries  outside  of  the  temple  may  repent, 
and  can  come  to  the  temple  and  have  the  ceremony  performed  by  one 
having  authority;  but  how  much  better  it  is,  as  we  have  already  heard, 
to  do  the  thing  right  at  first.  So  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Lord,  Amen. 


ETERNAL  LIFE  THROUGH  KEEPING  GOd's  LAWS 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITHES  WORDS 


ELDER  JOHN  II.  TAYLOR 


39 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  opportunity 
of  speaking  to  you  this  afternoon.  Along  with  the  other  brethren,  I  have 
been  very  much  interested  in  the  remarks,  counsel  and  instructions  that 
have  come  to  us.  I  trust  my  Heavenly  Father  will  bless  me,  that  I  may 
be  helpful  in  my  remarks,  so  that  our  faith  and  testimony  may  be 
increased. 

DREAMS  AND  VISIONS 

In  reading  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  my  attention  was  attracted  to 
the  statement  of  Lehi,  wherein  he  gives  an  account  of  his  vision  of  the 
iron  rod.  I  was  attracted  first  because,  in  the  words  of  Lehi,  he  said :  "I 
have  dreamed  a  dream ;  in  other  words,  I  have  seen  a  vision."  It  occurred 
to  me  that  the  dreams  that  one  has,  if  they  are  at  all  worth  while  to  the 
individual,  or  to  the  Church,  they  must  be  associated  with  that  other 
word  "vision."  When  one  has  dreams,  and  they  are  of  value,  they  must 
be  associated  with  vision  from  God,  the  Eternal  Father. 

We  do  have  people  in  our  day,  who  are  dreaming  dreams,  and  they, 
in  some  instances,  feel  that  they  are  very  vital,  and  that  they  belong  in 
some  way  to  the  revelations  of  the  Lord.  As  a  general  rule,  such  dreams 
have  to  do  with  personal  desires  for  things, — perhaps  things  they  should 
not  have.  They  may  be  caused  by  worry  or  nervousness  or  an  unbalanced 
ration. 

I  had  an  uncle,  who  was  a  bachelor,  and  a  lady  came  to  him  and 
said  she  had  had  a  dream  that  she  should  marry  him.  My  uncle  said, 
"That  is  all  right,  but  will  you  wait,  please,  until  I  have  had  the  same 
dream  ?" 

There  are  people  who,  in  order  to  have  the  things  that  they  want, 
assume  that  they  are  dreaming,  and  that  these  dreams  are  coming  from 
God.  It  is  only  a  way  of  disregarding  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  doing 
the  things  that  they  want  to  do,  whether  they  be  right  or  whether  they 
be  contrary  to  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

THE  TREE  OF  LIFE 

In  this  dream  of  Lehi's  he  said  that  he  saw  the  tree  of  life  and  that 
it  was  the  most  precious  thing  above  all  other  things,  because  "it  sheddeth 
itself  abroad  in  the  hearts  of  all  the  children  of  men."  An  angel  who 
was  standing  by  Nephi  as  he  was  receiving  the  interpretation  of  his 
father's  dream  said,  "Yea,  and  the  most  joyous  to  the  soul." 

The  love  of  God,  in  the  explanation  that  we  have  in  the  scriptures, 
is  the  tree  of  life.  The  love  of  God  is  more  precious  than  anything  else, 
and  we  can  readily  judge  how  much  we  love  God  by  the  way  we  keep 
His  commandments.  We  may  say  we  love  God,  but  if  we  haven't  the 
strength,  the  faith  or  the  courage  to  make  sacrifices  for  the  truth,  then 
surely  we  are  not  loving  God  as  we  should  love  Him. 


40 

Friday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


THE  IRON  ROD  AND  THE  GREAT  BUILDING  SEEN  BY  LEHI 

The  other  thing  that  attracted  my  attention  was  the  rod  of  iron  which 
ran  along  the  bank  of  a  river  and  led  to  the  tree  of  life.  In  the  inter- 
pretation to  Nephi  he  was  made  to  understand  that  this  rod  of  iron  was 
the  word  of  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  that  many  men  and  women, 
hosts  of  them,  started  on  their  way  to  reach  the  tree  of  life,  that  they 
might  partake  of  this  fruit,  which  was  precious  above  all  other  fruits. 
As  they  came  and  partook  of  this  fruit,  some  of  them,  in  looking  around, 
saw  a  building  that  seemed  to  be  standing,  as  it  were,  in  the  air.  There 
was  a  multitude  of  people  in  this  building,  and  they  were  mocking  those 
who  had  come  to  eat  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of  life.  Many  of  these  people 
who  came  and  had  eaten  of  the  tree  of  life,  because  of  the  attitude  of 
the  people  who  were  in  this  spacious  building,  felt  ashamed  of  the 
thing  that  they  were  doing,  and  wandered  away  and  were  lost. 

RIDICULE  OFTEN  THE  CAUSE  OF  TURNING  FROM  THE  RIGHT 

So  the  thought  has  occurred  to  me  that  often  we  partake  of  the  fruit 
of  the  tree  of  life,  or  we  become  acquainted  with  the  love  of  God,  and 
His  mercies,  and  then  we  are  made  ashamed  by  the  attitude  of  other 
people.  I  dare  say  that  the  majority  of  our  young  people  who  begin  to 
smoke  or  to  drink,  do  so  because  in  some  way  other  people  have  made 
them  ashamed  of  the  word  of  the  Lord,  as  if  it  were  something  lacking 
in  value  and  need  not  be  held  to.  Because  of  the  mockery  and  because  of 
the  words  of  ridicule,  our  young  people  turn  away  and  commence  to  do 
things  that  other  people  do.  Then  it  becomes  a  habit,  which  makes  it 
that  much  harder  to  find  their  way  back  again  to  the  road  that  will 
lead  them  to  the  tree  of  life. 

We  have  people  who  fail  to  go  into  the  house  of  the  Lord  because 
they  have  been  made  ashamed  of  its  ordinances  and  ceremonies  and  of 
its  requirements  in  the  matter  of  dress.  The  argument  is  used  that  it  is 
all  absurd,  that  it  is  foolish  and  of  no  importance;  therefore  boys  and 
girls  and  other  people  are  made  ashamed  of  the  things  that  we  have  in 
the  holy  house  of  God,  because  they  lack  understanding  and  courage  and 
because  they  have  not  loved  God  enough.  They  would  rather  have  the 
things  that  seemingly  are  comfortable  and  easy  for  them,  and  which 
require  no  sacrifice.  Thus  they  turn  away  from  the  love  of  God  and  the 
path  of  righteousness. 

Awhile  ago  I  came  in  contact  with  a  man,  a  young  fellow  who, 
attending  one  of  our  places  of  learning,  was  told  that  patriarchal  blessings 
were  on  the  same  plane  as  fortune  telling  and  crystal  gazing,  that  there 
was  no  truth  back  of  them  that  would  be  helpful  to  anyone.  So  that 
young  man's  faith  in  one  of  the  precious  privileges  of  the  Church  was 
shattered. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  be  helpful  to  us.  May  we  seek  after  the 
tree  of  life.  May  we  get  hold  of  the  iron  rod  and  as  we  go  through  the 
destructive  mists  of  darkness,  may  we  hold  tight  to  this  rod  and  not  be 
lost  in  the  wilderness,  and  so  be  able  to  reach  the  tree  of  life,  and  love 
God  as  we  should  love  Him.    I  humbly  pray  for  these  things.  Amen. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


41 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  Apostle  Peter  said :  "Jesus  went  about  doing  good."  In  these 
five  words  is  the  epitome  of  a  divine  life,  spent  in  the  service  of  humanity. 

As  I  listened  to  the  report  which  was  read  this  morning,  particularly 
that  part  of  it  which  referred  to  the  Church  Welfare  work,  I  said  in  my 
heart,  "this  great  movement  is  applied  religion." 

MIGHTY  WORKS  PERFORMED  BY  JESUS 

It  is  wonderful  to  contemplate  the  care  and  compassion  that  Jesus 
bestowed  upon  the  unfortunate.  He  healed  the  sick,  made  the  blind  to 
see  and  the  deaf  to  hear.  He  fed  the  hungry  multitudes,  "lest  they  faint." 
When  He  raised  the  little  maid  to  life  He  commanded  the  astonished 
parents  "that  something  should  be  given  her  to  eat." 

When  He  performed  those  mighty  works  in  His  own  country  the 
people  were  astounded  and  said:  "Is  not  this  the  carpenter?"  They 
could  not  comprehend  that  Jesus  was  Deity  embodied  in  human  form. 

I  haven't  heard  anyone  explain  the  full  significance  of  the  profound 
truth  that  God  Almighty  trained  His  Only  Begotten  Son  in  a  carpenter 
shop.  The  Savior  was  no  weakling.  He  was  a  muscular  workman ;  He 
stood  and  moved  in  the  pride  and  strength  of  manhood  when  He  drove 
the  money  changers  from  the  Temple.  He  was  also  considerate  and 
kind. 

THE  YOKE  OF  CHRIST 

He  said : 

Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will 
give  you  rest.  Take  my  yoke  upon  you  and  learn  of  me:  for  I  am 
meek  and  lowly  in  heart:  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls.  For 
my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden  is  light. 

Jesus  in  the  carpenter  shop  doubtless  made  yokes  for  oxen.  But  the 
yokes  He  made  left  no  sore  spots.  They  made  the  burden  light.  The 
man  who  bears  the  yoke  of  Christ  has  no  sore  spots  on  him.  In  his  heart 
and  life  there  is  real  liberty  and  joy.  Yes,  Jesus  was  a  carpenter  and 
that  Carpenter  today  is  the  Captain  of  the  world's  only  hope. 

PRACTICAL  ADVICE  TO  YOUNG  MEN 

Our  young  men  in  Zion  should  learn  handicraft  trades ;  there  are 
too  many  of  them  seeking  white-collar  jobs.  If  they  want  to  "stand  be- 
fore kings"  they  should  become  skilful  farmers,  craftsmen,  mechanics, 
and  be  diligent  in  their  work. 

Mr.  Babson  said : 

W.  J.  Cameron,  of  the  Ford  Motor  Company,  told  me  the  other 
day  that  the  number  of  students  preparing  to  be  mechanics  is  only 
about  one-seventh  the  number  now  employed  as  mechanics;  while  the 
number  now  studying  for  the  professions  is  about  thirteen  times  those 
engaged  in  the  professions. 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  4  First  Day 

This  does  not  look  good.  We  should  not  cease  to  teach  our  young 
men  that  the  mechanic  as  well  as  the  farmer  is  necessary  for  the  pro- 
gress of  the  community.  The  world  is  in  need  of  mechanics,  builders, 
plumbers,  carpenters,  bricklayers.  I  felt  disappointed  in  reading  in  a 
newspaper,  a  few  days  ago,  the  following  statement : 

The  Ogden  Air  Depot  at  Hill  Field  will  need  2,500  to  3,500 
machinists  and  mechanics  by  the  end  of  this  year,  it  had  been  reported 
today  by  Major  R.  J.  Minty,  personnel  officer. 

He  explained  that  the  army  hopes  to  fill  at  least  the  lower  grade 
skilled  jobs  with  Utah  men,  but  is  certain  that  many  of  the  more 
skilled  workers  must  come  from  outside  the  state. 

I  urge  the  young  men  to  learn  trades ;  to  be  craftsmen.  Then  they 
will  be  qualified  to  earn  a  comfortable  living.  The  middle  partition  of 
the  incompatibility  between  labor  and  culture  should  be  pulled  down. 
There  should  be  no  such  partition.  Labor  is  honorable.  Let  us  pursue 
the  splendid  policy  that  will  bring  temporal  independence  to  our  young 
men  and  that  will  produce  for  us  more  builders,  for  our  people  are  natur- 
ally builders.  A  new  world  is  being  built.  Builders  and  mechanics  are 
in  demand.  Every  effort  should  be  put  forth  to  make  our  young  men 
employable. 

Boys  and  girls  stay  in  the  country,  on  the  farms ;  do  not  desert  them, 
for  the  land  is  your  heritage.  When  the  bulk  of  the  population  shifts  to 
the  cities  there  is  danger  to  the  nation.  For  the  real  bulwark,  and  the 
strength  of  the  nation  is  in  the  country.  President  Grant  remarked  to 
me  the  other  day  that  cities  would  perish  if  they  were  not  continually 
nourished  with  the  good,  pure  blood  that  comes  from  the  country. 

I  know  of  four  ranches  in  this  State.  The  men  who  founded  them 
were  English,  German,  Swedish  and  Danish.  They  were  solid  men  in 
the  community  and  earned  the  bold  independence  that  comes  from  labor. 
They  made  themselves  well-to-do.  But  where  are  their  descendants. 
Most  of  them  wanted  white-collar  jobs.  I  have  seen  them  punching 
time-clocks.  They  are  living  from  hand  to  mouth.  Strangers,  not  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  contented  and  prosperous,  own  and  live  on  those 
ranches. 

"Sweet  are  the  uses  of  adversity."  I  believe  in  this  too  often  over- 
looked truth.  Blessings  ought  not  to  be  wasted :  neither  should  troubles. 
Oh,  if  we  had  had  the  foresight  to  have  prepared  for  the  defense  of  this 
country  when  we  were  in  the  midst  of  the  depression !  Men  could  then 
have  been  trained  as  mechanics.  They  could  have  been  employed  in  erect- 
ing our  defenses.  Instead  of  spending  the  billions  of  dollars  in  ways  that 
probably  have  not  brought  the  greatest  good,  work  could  have  been  pro- 
vided for  millions  of  workers  who  would  have  been  glad  to  work.  There 
might  not  have  been  any  war  in  Europe  if  this  had  been  done. 

THE  LORD'S  ADVICE  TO  RICH  AND  POOR 

The  Lord  gives  some  advice  to  the  laboring  men,  and  also  to  the 
rich  men.  This  is  the  Carpenter  speaking,  the  Carpenter  who  was  exalted 
to  a  throne  to  sit  down  on  the  right  hand  of  God.  He  it  was  who  was 
rich  and  became  poor  for  our  sakes.   Listen  to  His  divine  admonition : 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


43 


Woe  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not  give  your  substance  to  the 
poor,  for  your  riches  will  canker  your  souls;  and  this  shall  be  your 
lamentation  in  the  day  of  visitation,  and  of  judgment,  and  of  indigna- 
tion: The  harvest  is  past,  the  summer  is  ended,  and  my  soul  is  not 
saved ! 

I  admire  the  great  captains  of  industry.  They  have  founded  mag- 
nificent industries.  They  should  be  hailed  as  saviors  of  labor  in  the  in- 
dustrial world.  But  they  should  not  honor  and  love  mammon  more  than 
they  love  their  humble  brethren  who  are  working  for  them. 

Now,  to  the  laboring  men : 

Woe  unto  you  poor  men,  whose  hearts  are  not  broken,  whose 
spirits  are  not  contrite,  and  whose  bellies  are  not  satisfied,  and  whose 
hands  are  not  stayed  from  laying  hold  upon  other  men's  goods,  whose 
eyes  are  full  of  greediness,  and  who  will  not  labor  with  your  own  hands. 

No  excuse  there  for  sit-down  strikes.  No  encouragement  for  strikes 
which  are  inspired  by  a  spirit  of  violence.  Labor  cannot  do  without 
capital.  God  wants  both  to  go  together  peaceably.  Do  not  blame  and 
envy  men  because  they  are  rich ;  do  not  condemn  or  look  down  upon  men 
because  they  are  poor. 

The  capitalists,  the  industrialists  engaged  in  the  manufacturing  in- 
dustry and  the  working  men  should  put  aside  the  agitators  and  the  profes- 
sional trouble-makers  and  meet  around  the  conference  table  with  their 
hearts  permeated  with  the  Spirit  of  Christ. 

Then  in  that  state  of  mind,  misunderstandings,  questions  and  dis- 
putes would  be  settled  in  reason  and  justice.  Results  would  spring  from 
such  conferences  which  would  make  an  end  of  useless  and  costly  strikes. 
They  would  make  for  practices,  conciliation,  satisfactory  adjustments 
and  happiness  that  flow  from  the  spirit  of  the  Savior.  Thus  these  out- 
breaks of  violence,  the  strikes  which  disfigure  and  disrupt  our  industrial 
life  would  cease.  I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  Jesus  will  rest  upon 
and  abide  with  employer  and  employed  alike. 

GRATITUDE  EXPRESSED  FOR  LEADERS 

We  thank  God  for  President  Grant.  As  he  was  talking  this  morn- 
ing the  words  of  the  Apostle  Paul  came  to  my  mind.  He  said :  "Never- 
theless, I  live ;  yet  not  I,  but  Christ  liveth  in  me."  We  see  the  influence 
of  the  spirit  of  the  Savior  in  the  life  of  our  beloved  President.  That  is 
the  reason  why  he  is  a  blessing  to  his  people. 

May  I  add  just  one  more  word.  With  all  my  heart  I  endorse  the 
statesmanlike  address  delivered  by  President  Clark  in  this  Conference. 
Every  word  of  it  I  accept.  It  is  a  warning  to  this  nation,  a  word  of  light 
uttered  by  a  prophet-statesman. 

I  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


44 

Friday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 

Former  President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

I  do  not  know  at  this  moment  what  I  shall  say.  I  have  been  in  this 
congregation  since  the  opening  of  the  morning  meeting,  very  much  im- 
pressed and  stimulated  by  the  discourses  of  the  brethren,  but  not  expect- 
ing to  be  called  upon  myself. 

It  is  a  singular  privilege  to  occupy  this  pulpit.  When  one  reflects 
upon  the  history  of  it,  and  looks  back  over  the  years,  when  he  examines 
the  discourses  that  have  been  delivered  here,  he  finds  the  high  points  in 
all  the  activities  of  our  lives,  from  the  standpoint  of  religion,  of  social 
science  or  educational  principles ;  in  fact,  in  all  that  is  of  importance  to 
us.  The  finest  doctrines  known  to  men  have  gone  out  from  this  pulpit. 
It  is  not  surprising,  therefore,  that  those  who  are  to  speak  approach  it  in 
a  spirit  of  diffidence,  certainly  of  humility,  of  deep  concern,  and  of  pro- 
found respect. 

Going  back  to  the  records  of  1869  and  70,  and  to  the  General  Con- 
ference of  April,  1872, 1  re-read  oftentimes  the  doctrines  proclaimed  here 
by  President  Brigham  Young.  He  urged  the  people  to  come  together 
in  unity  and  counsel  in  all  their  undertakings.  He  taught  the  doctrine  of 
cooperation  as  we  see  it  today,  and  even  upon  a  broader  scale,  and  yet  it 
was  probably  from  this  pulpit  alone  that  that  doctrine  was  then  being 
taught.  He  defined  clearly  the  benefits  of  cooperation  and  the  advan- 
tages that  it  would  bring  to  all  the  people.  Since  that  time,  every  State  in 
the  Union  has  declared  in  favor  of  the  principles  which  he  then  advocated. 

Today  we  see  also  the  most  advanced  step,  I  believe,  that  has  been 
taken  in  the  direction  of  cooperation,  in  our  Church  Welfare  Program. 
I  trust  that  no  man  and  no  woman  who,  having  the  opportunity  to  engage 
in  this  work,  will  fail  to  do  so.  Let  not  your  sons  and  daughters  grow 
up  to  a  realization  of  what  is  now  being  done  in  the  line  of  social  justice, 
welfare  and  service,  to  discover  that  you  have  not  taken  part  in  it.  The 
day  will  come  when  men  will  stand  here  and  relate  with  justifiable  pride, 
what  wilL  have  been  accomplished  in  the  present  undertaking  and  the 
people  will  view  it  with  universal  approval  and  with  a  sense  of  deep 
satisfaction. 

At  the  April  Conference  of  1880,  President  John  Taylor  delivered 
a  discourse  here  which  for  fundamental  righteousness  cannot  be  excelled 
by  any  address  that  I  have  ever  read.  It  was  the  Year  of  Jubilee.  He 
advocated  that  "  we  do  like  the  Ancients,  and  take  off  the  yoke  from  those 
who  are  in  debt  and  unable  to  pay,  and  release  them  from  their  bondage, 
and  cause  a  feeling  of  joy  and  liberty  to  abound  among  the  poor."  The 
granaries  were  opened,  and  the  thirty-five  thousand  bushels  of  grain  that 
had  been  gathered  by  the  women  of  the  Relief  Society  were  released  for 
the  benefit  of  the  poor. 

In  that  sermon,  President  Taylor  said : 

When  the  Lord  is  blessing  us,  let  us  bless  one  another.  He  will 
not  let  us  suffer  if  we  take  care  not  to  let  one  another  suffer. 


ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 


45 


It  will  be  recalled  that  at  that  time  one-half  of  the  sums  due  to  the 
Perpetual  Emigration  Fund,  amounting  to  more  than  $800,000,  was  turn- 
ed over  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor — that  is,  these  obligations  were  for- 
given those  who  were  unable  to  pay.  That  was,  in  reality,  a  year  of 
jubilation. 

However,  the  discourses  of  that  day  were  not,  of  course,  broadcast 
as  they  are  today.  They  reached  the  ears  of  ten  thousand  gathered  in 
this  great  auditorium  and  were  preserved  in  written  or  printed  form,  but 
where  one  thousand  were  reached  then,  hundreds  of  thousands  may  hear 
what  is  being  said  now.  The  discourses  of  this  morning,  for  example, 
were  heard  throughout  the  West  and  I  believe  it  can  be  said  that  they 
take  rank  with  the  noblest  utterances  that  have  ever  come  from  this 
pulpit. 

Another  thing  that  has  been  constantly  taught  here  is  the  doctrine 
of  thrift ;  not  a  thrift  that  is  mean  or  low  or  selfish,  but  a  thrift  that  calls 
for  intelligent  saving,  for  judicious  spending,  and  for  wise  giving;  a 
thrift  that  makes  one  able  to  be  generous.  President  Grant  has  con- 
stantly emphasized  this  doctrine  and  in  connection  with  it  the  principle  of 
self-discipline,  self-control,  and  avoidance  of  those  things  which  are  in- 
jurious to  the  physical  being.  While  in  years  gone  by  these  things  have 
not  been  taken  so  seriously,  today  from  every  college,  every  medical  in- 
stitution, from  all  those  trained  in  medical  science,  from  the  councils  of 
people  generally  come  an  acceptance  of  these  doctrines,  especially  so  since 
they  may  now  be  judged  by  their  fruits.  And,  above  all,  lessons  of  cour- 
age have  come  from  this  pulpit,  both  by  word  and  by  example — the  cour- 
age of  one's  convictions  such  as  our  leaders  exhibited  in  years  gone  by, 
and  such  as  they  exemplify  today. 

As  I  was  recently  leaving  the  Mission  office  in  New  York,  for  a 
trip  into>  the  field,  I  passed  through  an  electric  gateway  at  the  railway 
station.  As  I  approached  the  gate  leading  to  the  train,  it  opened  mysteri- 
ously before  me,  and  to  my  mind  came  the  question,  "What  hand  opened 
that  gate  for  me?"  The  obvious  answer  seemed  to  be:  "No  hand  at  all. 
You  simply  intercepted  the  electric  current  and  the  power  did  the  rest." 
But  that  was  not  the  answer.  Many  hands  and  many  minds,  working 
over  many  years,  opened  that  gate  for  me,  and  tens  of  thousands  of  men, 
women  and  children  have  availed  themselves  of  that  convenience  which 
science  had  given  unto  us.  I  thought  of  the  Faradays  and  of  the  Edisons 
and  their  kind  and  of  how  they  had  been  taunted  and  even  ridiculed,  as 
they  worked  their  way  upward  to  bring  a  blessing  to  mankind.  Courage 
kept  them  at  their  task.  But  more  than  all,  I  thought  of  the  leaders  of 
that  Mission  in  the  early  days — of  Wilford  Woodruff,  of  John  Taylor, 
of  Parley  P.  Pratt  and  Orson  Pratt,  and  such  men  as  they.  They  also 
pointed  out  a  gate  which  opened  to  tens  of  thousands  of  men  and  women 
and  children, — a  strait  gate  and  a  narrow  way,  one  that  leads  to  Life. 
That  is  the  Way  with  which  we  are  most  concerned.  These  men,  too, 
were  taunted,  were  ridiculed  and  even  persecuted,  but  they  were  never 
dismayed.  They  were  men  of  fortitude  and  of  unfailing  courage.  They 
were  convinced  of  the  rectitude  of  that  for  which  they  stood.   They  were 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  4  First  Day 

converted  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  there  was  no  compromise 
in  their  souls  or  in  their  minds. 

These  are  the  lessons  which  have  been  taught  from  this  pulpit  during 
all  the  years  of  its  history.  May  we  appreciate  its  importance,  its  deep 
significance.  May  we  not  fail  in  our  integrity,  in  our  courage,  in  our  de- 
votion to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Be  Thou  Faithful" — Engel — was  sung  by  the  Choir. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  thank  the  Choir  for  the  beautiful  songs  which  they  have  sung 
to  us  today.  We  always  know  when  we  have  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Chorus  that  we  will  have  good  music. 

I  again  urge  that  as  you  leave  here  to  drive  to  your  homes,  you  drive 
carefully,  and  I  ask  the  pedestrians  to  walk  sensibly  as  they  cross  the 
roads. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Richard  C.  May,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Minidoka  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  a.  m.,  Saturday,  April  5. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  April  5,  at  10  o'clock. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  moment  has  arrived  for  opening  the  third  session  of  this  Con- 
ference. We  are  indeed  grateful  again  this  morning,  notwithstanding 
the  inclement  weather,  that  President  Grant  is  with  us  and  is  presiding. 
He  has  asked  President  Clark  to  conduct  the  services. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Radio  Station  KSL  and  of  the  other  Radio 
Stations  cooperating  the  meetings  of  this  Conference  are  being  broadcast 
over  KFXD  at  Nampa;  KSEI  at  Pocatello;  KTFI  at  Twin  Falls;  KID 
at  Idaho  Falls ;  KSUB  at  Cedar  City ;  and  KEUB  at  Price. 

The  Presidents  of  Stakes  in  these  localities  are  arranging  meetings 
in  various  of  their  Ward  meeting  houses  where  Ward  and  Stake  congre- 
gations can  hear  the  Conference.  A  direct  wire  from  the  Tabernacle  to 
the  Los  Angeles  Stake  Tabernacle  in  Los  Angeles,  California,  will  bring 
the  services  to  that  area. 

We  were  advised  last  evening  that  the  reception  was  very  good  in 
all  these  areas,  and  that  people  were  coming  together  and  enjoying  the 
services. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


47 


There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  morning  President  Grant  and  his 
two  Counselors,  the  eleven  Apostles,  all  of  the  First  Seven  Presidents 
of  Seventies,  and  all  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  music  today  will  be  furnished  by  the  Blackfoot  Stake  Choir, 
Elder  Ronald  Bitton,  Director,  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper,  Organist. 

The  congregation  and  the  Blackfoot  Stake  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Do 
What  is  Right." 

Elder  Wilford  W.  Warnick,  President  of  the  Timpanogos  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  sang  "Lift  Up  Your  Heads" — Taylor. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Revelation  is  the  rock  upon  which  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  built.  It  is  the  basis  of  Mormonism — the  restored 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness.  Using  the  term  revelation  in  a 
broad  sense,  it  is  the  means  the  Lord  has  always  employed  to  acquaint 
His  children  with  the  plan  of  salvation,  with  a  knowledge  of  His  exist- 
ence and  of  our  relationship  to  Him.  We  believe  the  Bible  and  other 
scriptures  are  divinely  inspired  writings. 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  HEAVEN-TAUGHT 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  wonderfully  favored  by  the  Lord 
in  the  matter  of  revelation.  So  far  as  the  records  show,  it  began  in  what 
was  the  most  marvelous  vision  ever  given  to  mortal  man.  The  Father 
and  the  Son  not  only  showed  themselves  to  Joseph  but  actually  talked 
to  him.  In  addition  to  these  personages  a  number  of  others  of  the 
greatest  personages  in  heaven  also  appeared  and  talked  to  him — Moses, 
Elias,  Elijah,  John  the  Baptist,  the  Apostles  Peter,  James  and  John, 
and  the  prophet  Moroni — an  imposing  list  of  immortals.  Thus  to  a 
remarkable  degree  Joseph  Smith  was  heaven-taught  by  word  of  mouth 
as  well  as  by  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  We  are  entirely  correct, 
therefore,  when  we  say  that  divine  revelation  is  basic  to  the  organization 
and  continued  existence  of  this  Church. 

REVELATION  FOR  THE  CHURCH  AND  FOR  INDIVIDUALS 

Without  revelations  other  than  the  inspired  teachings  of  the  Bible 
this  Church  could  never  have  been  organized.  There  would  have  been 
no  need  for  it,  because  it  could  not  have  been  essentially  different  from 
existing  churches.  It  would  have  had  no  more  light  than  they  have — 
no  fuller  truth  to  impart. 

Revelation  is  needed  not  only  to  guide  the  organization  and  teach- 
ings of  the  Church,  but  also  to  enable  the  members  to  function  acceptably 
in  their  respective  duties.  One  thing  that  is  characteristic  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  their  assurance  that  God  lives,  that  this  is  His  accepted 
Church  and  that  He  helps  His  children  according  to  their  worthiness  and 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

needs.  Experience  has  taught  them  the  validity  of  certain  scriptural 
teachings  relative  to  the  individual  receiving  divine  revelations. 

We  remember  what  Jesus  said  to  Peter  when  He  asked  His  dis- 
ciples "Whom  say  ye  that  I  am  ?"  The  answer  came  quickly  from  Peter, 

Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  And  Jesus  an- 
swered and  said  unto  him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona:  for  flesh 
and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father,  which  is  in 
heaven.  (Matt.  16:15-17.) 

This  indicates  that  Peter  received  his  knowledge  through  divine 
revelation. 

THE  PRAYER  OF  FAITH  ANSWERED 

Joseph  Smith's  boyhood  experience  in  this  matter  has  been  published 
world-wide.  The  lad  most  earnestly  wanted  to  know  which  church  to 
join.  He  decided  to  ask  the  Lord,  for  he  read  in  the  writings  of  the 
Apostle  James  the  following : 

If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all 
men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him. 

However,  James  gave  a  caution  in  these  words : 

But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  wavering.  For  he  that  wavereth 
is  like  a  wave  of  the  sea  driven  with  the  wind  and  tossed.  For  let  not 
that  man  think  that  he  shall  receive  anything  of  the  Lord.  (James  1 : 
5-7.) 

This  biblical  passage  heartened  the  boy  and  he  went  into  the  nearby 
woods  to  pray.  The  sequel  was  the  most  marvelous  vision  ever  given  to 
mortal  man.  The  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  Joseph  in  a  column  of 
transcendent  light.  He  not  only  saw  them,  he  heard  their  voices,  for  they 
spoke  to  him.  He  learned  the  truth  that  God  hears  and  answers  prayers. 

Many  Latter-day  Saints  can  and  do  bear  witness  to  the  truth  of 
another  saying  of  Jesus  recorded  by  the  Apostle  John  and  stated  in  these 
words : 

If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether 
it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself.   (John  7:17.) 

This  of  course  indicates  that  revelation  is  the  means  of  getting  this 
knowledge. 

I  give  another  scriptural  reference  on  this  point.  It  is  clearly  and 
explicitly  written  and  is  found  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  recorded  in  the 
tenth  chapter  of  Moroni  and  is  as  follows : 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  [those  written  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon]  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  ask  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true;  and  if  ye 
.  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ, 
he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth 
pf  all  things.  (Moroni  10:4-5.) 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


49 


REVELATION  FROM  TWO  SOURCES 

I  call  attention  to  this  principle  of  revelation,  not  that  all  Latter-day 
Saints  do  not  accept  it,  but  to  point  out  that  there  are  certain  dangers 
regarding  it  about  which  a  few  of  our  people  seemingly  need  to  be  warned. 
The  kind  of  revelation  of  which  I  have  spoken  is  divine  revelation.  I 
know  of  no  dangers  associated  with  this  kind  of  revelation.  Its  source 
is  heaven  and  most  commonly  is  a  manifestation  of  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  But  using  the  term  in  its  broadest  sense  it  will  include  the  whis- 
perings that  come  from  evil  sources  through  the  power  of  Satan. 

According  to  our  teachings,  Satan  and  an  army  of  supporters  were 
cast  down  to  earth  from  the  premortal  spirit  world.  They  are  spirit 
brothers  of  ours,  and  are  real  persons  having  spirit  bodies.  As  surely  as 
we  live  they  live  also.  They  are  trying  to  handicap  and  thwart  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  Wherever  the  Saints  are  found  there  the  devil  is  also.  If 
Satan  can  overcome  the  Saints,  he  will  have  all  the  world  subject  to  him. 
He  is  a  deceiver,  the  father  of  lies,  the  source  of  evil,  the  enemy  of  all 
righteousness. 

He  has  great  power  in  the  earth.  He  has  deceived,  and  is  deceiving, 
some  people  who  have  been  and  may  now  be  members  of  the  Church, 
but  members  in  grave  danger.  One  of  his  schemes  is  to  give  them  a  type 
of  revelation,  inducing  them  to  believe  that  these  come  from  heaven  in- 
stead of  from  the  devil.  It  is  these  people  that  are  in  urgent  need  of  a 
warning. 

In  writing  to  the  Corinthians  the  Apostle  Paul  speaks  of  those 
opposing  his  labors  as : 

 false  apostles,  deceitful  workers,  transforming  themselves 

into  the  apostles  of  Christ.  And  no  marvel;  for  Satan  himself  is  trans- 
formed into  an  angel  of  light.  Therefore  it  is  no  great  thing  if  his 
ministers  also  be  transformed  as  the  ministers  of  righteousness;  whose 
end  shall  be  according  to  their  works.  (II  Cor.  11:13-15.) 

Do  you  notice  the  similarity  in  method  used  in  Paul's  day  and  in 
this  day  by  emissaries  of  Satan  ? 

In  Matthew,  Chapter  24,  Jesus  in  speaking  of  the  signs  and  condi 
tions  preceding  His  second  coming  is  reported  as  saying : 

There  shall  arise  false  Christs,  and  false  prophets  and  shall  shew 
great  signs  and  wonders;  insomuch  that,  if  it  were  possible,  they  shall 
deceive  the  very  elect.  (Matt.  24:24.) 

FALSE  PROPHETS  TODAY 

Do  you  know  of  any  false  prophets  among  us  in  these  days — those 
misguided,  lying,  deceitful  workers  who  claim  to  be  the  recipients  of 
divine  revelation?  In  the  7th  Chapter  of  Matthew  Jesus  is  again  re- 
ported as  saying : 

By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them.  Not  everyone  that  saith  unto 
me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven;  but  he  that 
doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  Many  will  say  unto 
me  in  that  day,  Lord,  Lord,  have  we  not  prophesied  in  thy  name?  and 
in  thy  name  have  cast  out  devils?  and  in  thy  name  done  many  wonder- 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

ful  works?  And  then  will  I  profess  unto  them,  I  never  knew  you: 
depart  from  me,  ye  that  work  iniquity.   (Matt.  7:20-23.) 

There  are  many  scriptural  references,  particularly  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  that  might  be  given  of  the  deceiving  power  of  Satan.  One 
found  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  bears  directly  upon  the  point  I  have  in 
mind.  It  is  found  in  the  30th  Chapter  of  Alma.  Korihor,  an  anti-Christ, 
was  arrested  and  brought  before  Alma,  the  governor  and  chief  judge, 
for  teaching  infidelity  and  leading  the  people  into  wickedness.  Before 
the  judge  Korihor  refused  to  desist  from  his  position  and  demanded 
from  Alma  a  sign  that  there  is  a  God.  When  struck  dumb  Korihor  wrote : 

The  devil  hath  deceived  me;  for  he  appeared  unto  me  in  the  form 
of  an  angel,  and  said  unto  me:  Go  and  reclaim  this  people,  for  they  have 
all  gone  astray  after  an  unknown  God  ....  And  he  taught  me  that 
which  I  should  say,  and  I  have  taught  his  words   (Alma  30:53.) 

Are  all  of  us  not  acquainted  with  instances  essentially  like  the  one 
Alma  relates  of  Korihor  ? 

THE  DECEIVED 

Occasionally  there  comes  to  my  office  and  presumably  to  other  offices 
in  the  building,  an  individual  who  claims  he  has  a  divine  message  for  the 
Church  or  for  President  Grant.  Of  course,  we  give  no  credence  to  their 
claims.  But  I  refer  to  their  claims  in  illustration  of  the  statement  that 
our  belief  in  modern  revelation  may  be  the  means  of  leading  away  some 
of  the  people  unless  they  are  on  their  guard.  Perhaps  at  no  time  in  history 
did  Satan  have  power  as  great  as  he  has  today.  There  was  no  time  in  the 
past  when  so  many  people  believed  in  revelation  as  today.  Satan  tempts 
us  where  we  are  most  vulnerable.  He  misleads  a  few  into  believing  that 
the  promptings  that  come  from  him  are  divine  revelations.  These  false 
prophets  in  turn  are  seemingly  so  devout,  so  humble,  so  earnest  and 
sincere  that  they,  with  Satan's  help,  are  able  to  deceive  and  mislead 
many  others — only  those,  however,  who  profess  a  belief  in  modern  reve- 
lation. Thus  heresies  spring  up,  faith  in  our  leaders  is  destroyed  and  the 
devil  laughs  because  of  his  successes.  The  foolish  who  have  been  blinded 
have  been  led  to  believe  that  they  are  serving  the  cause  of  the  Master 
when  the  fact  is  they  are  dupes  of  the  devil.  I  speak  plainly  to  avoid  being 
misunderstood. 

There  are  adulterous  men  going  about  lying  to  and  trying  to  deceive 
people  into  believing  that  the  President  and  leaders  of  the  Church  have 
lost  the  spirit  of  their  callings  and  have  repudiated  some  Gospel  prin- 
ciples. This  is  one  of  the  ways  in  which  the  devil  is  working. 

INDIVIDUAL  GUIDANCE 

We  believe  that  an  individual  is  entitled  to  divine  guidance  in  his 
personal  and  material  affairs.  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  was  reported 
in  a  Conference  sermon  as  saying  the  following : 

Every  man  has  the  privilege  to  exercise  these  gifts  (of  revelation) 
in  the  conduct  of  his  own  affairs  ....  in  the  management  of  his  farm, 
.  his  flocks,  his  herds  and  in  the  management  of  his  business. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


51 


I  was  once  reliably  told  that  President  Wilford  Woodruff  advised 
going  ahead  with  building  the  Lehi  sugar  factory,  even  though  a  com- 
mittee of  business  men  had  reported  and  decided  against  its  feasibility. 
President  Woodruff  knew  the  project  would  be  successful  because  the 
Lord  had  so  indicated.  But  Satan  has  deceived  many  Church  members 
by  his  devilish  manifestations  in  matters  of  material  projects.  I  called 
attention  to  one  of  those  in  a  recent  stake  conference.  No  loyal  Church 
member  can  logically  expect  a  project  to  prosper  when  it  has  been  dis- 
approved by  two  presidents  of  the  Church. 

THE  WORTHY  MAY  DETECT  EVIL, 

Yes,  the  devil  is  among  the  Saints.  Let  them  beware.  He  uses 
various  means  and  methods — those  that  are  found  to  be  most  effective, 
depending  on  many  pertinent  factors.  He  catches  often  those  who  are 
off  their  guard.  None  of  us  is  secure  from  his  wiles.  To  be  as  secure 
as  may  be  we  must  have  the  help  of  the  Lord.  This  is  available  if  we 
worthily  seek  it.  Every  one  in  the  Church  must  have  it  if  he  does  well 
the  work  authoritatively  assigned  him  to  do.  But  no  officer,  no  missionary 
can  fully  enjoy  the  work  of  his  calling  in  the  Church  without  the  spirit 
thereof,  which  is  given  through  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  not  be  deceived.  There  are  many  agents 
of  Satan  abroad  in  the  land  and  some  of  them  may  be  self -deceived,  not 
knowing  that  they  are  in  the  power  of  the  evil  one.  However,  the  spirit 
of  the  devil  among  this  people  may  be  detected  by  all  honest,  sincere 
members  who  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  The  spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  comforting,  joy-producing,  love-inspiring,  help-giving.  The  spirit 
of  the  devil  is  manifested  in  fault-finding,  envy,  selfishness,  hatred,  deceit, 
dishonesty,  and  produces  misery,  sin  and  crime. 

GUIDANCE  THROUGH  PRAYER 

Do  the  people  of  the  Church  want  a  safe  guide  to  what  is  well  for 
them  to  do  ?  It  is  this :  Keep  in  harmony  with  the  Presidency  of  this 
Church.  Accept  and  follow  the  teachings  and  advice  of  the  President.  At 
every  Conference  we  raise  our  hands  to  sustain  the  President  as  prophet, 
seer  and  revelator.  Is  it  consistent  to  do  this  and  then  go  contrary  to 
his  advice?  Is  anyone  so  simple  as  to  believe  he  is  serving  the  Lord 
when  he  opposes  the  President?  Of  course,  the  President  is  not  infallible. 
He  makes  no  claims  to  infallibility.  But  when  in  his  official  capacity  he 
teaches  and  advises  the  members  of  the  Church  relative  to  their  duties, 
let' no  man  who  wants  to  please  the  Lord  say  aught  against  the  counsels 
of  the  President. 

In  the  spirit  of  helpfulness  let  me  give  you  a  key.  When  in  doubt 
go  on  your  knees  in  humility  with  an  open  mind  and  a  pure  heart  with  a 
real  desire  to  do  the  Lord's  will,  and  pray  earnestly  and  sincerely  for 
divine  guidance.  Persist  in  praying  in  this  way  until  you  get  an  answer 
that  fills  your  bosom  with  joy  and  satisfaction.  It  will  be  God's  answer. 
If  obedient  to  this  answer  you  will  always  act  as  'the  President  indicates. 
You  will  then  be  safe.  God  help  us  all  to  act  wisely  I  pray  in  Christ's 
name. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


As  always,  I  declare  my  dependence  upon  the  Spirit  that  motivates 
all  of  these  proceedings. 


I  was  happy  yesterday  to  hear  President  Grant  and  President  Clark 
address  part  of  their  remarks  to  the  young  men  of  my  generation  who 
face  a  breaking  up  of  the  pattern  of  their  lives  by  those  events  which  we 
now  face,  and  I  was  happy  to  hear  them  remembered,  in  the  opening 
prayer  this  morning.  We  have  lived  to  see  the  day  when  the  best  laid 
plans  of  men  have  gone  wrong,  and  these  young  men  are  facing  the  post- 
ponement or  abandonment  of  many  of  their  ambitions  and  most  cherished 
dreams  and  plans  for  their  own  futures.  And  as  the  young  men  are 
affected,  so  are  the  young  women.  We  sympathize  with  them  greatly. 

I  met  with  such  a  group  a  week  ago  today,  a  group  of  M  Men,  and 
I  felt  them  reaching  for  a  message  on  this  subject.  I  should  like  to  have 
the  ability  briefly  to  deliver  that  message  to  them. 

I  think  it  shouldn't  be  a  time  for  too  much  pessimism  and  discour- 
agement, in  spite  of  all  the  uncertainties.  I  think  we  should  remind  our- 
selves of  the  fact  that  there  has  always  been  uncertainty.  No  one  ever 
lived  in  a  static  society.  No  one  has  ever  had  fixed  guarantees  that  his 
way  of  life  would  not  be  interrupted,  and  I  am  sure  that  it  is  not  a  time 
for  disrupting  our  plans.  The  time  for  preparation  in  the  lives  of  our 
young  men  is  altogether  too  short,  and  I  feel  in  my  heart  that  they  should 
go  forward  with  whatever  they  have  in  mind,  and  let  interruption 
overtake  them  when  and  how  it  will. 

It  certainly  is  not  a  time  for  living  from  hand  to  mouth.  It  is  a  time 
for  laying  broader  foundations  than  ever  before,  because  no  matter  what 
kind  of  world  we  find  ourselves  living  in  tomorrow,  the  best  qualified 
men  will  always  be  in  demand,  and  whether  we  are  living  here  or  not, 
we  shall  be  living  somewhere,  and  those  intangible  things  that  we  acquire 
we  shall  take  with  us  wherever  we  go. 


Some  of  our  young  men,  and  some  of  our  mothers  who  are  called 
upon  to  send  them  forth  into  service,  wonder  why  they  have  to  go.  There 
have  been  some  who  have  urged  the  Church  and  its  members  to  declare 
themselves  conscientious  objectors.  There  may  be  some  merits  in  this 
position.  Perhaps  we  should  reserve  the  right  so  to  declare  ourselves  at 
some  future  time.  I  can  think  of  possibilities  and  circumstances  arising 
under  which  there  could  conceivably  come  some  times  and  conditions 
for  which  we  might  want  to  reserve  that  right.  But  there  are  two  sides 
to  the  question.  Traditionally  this  has  not  been  our  position.  In  the 
century  of  our  existence  there  is  no  people  of  like  numbers  that  I  know 
of  anywhere  in  the  world  who  have  a  better  record  for  giving  service 
when  the  call  has  come  than  this  people. 


THE  FUTURE  AS  IT  AFFECTS  YOUTH 


THE  CALL  TO  ARMS 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


53 


No  matter  how  ardently  we  may  agree  or  disagree  with  those  policies 
which  have  been  and  are  being  pursued  in  this  regard,  we  are  committed 
as  a  people  to  loyalty  to  constituted  authority.  That  is  true  of  our  people 
in  all  the  world,  no  matter  what  nation  they  may  live  in. 

There  may  be  another  reason  why  our  young  men  should  respond 
to  this  call.  Many  people,  and  we  are  among  them  I  am  sure,  bitterly 
regret  the  fact  that  when  war  comes  it  takes  the  cream  of  our  man- 
hood, it  does  not  take  the  physically  or  the  mentally  unfit.  It  takes  those 
who  are  best  capable  of  rendering  service,  and  we  regret  this  fact  most 
gravely. 

But  there  is  another  side,  and  I  would  like  to  quote  a  paragraph  from 
one  of  our  nationally  known  commentators  and  columnists  which  ap- 
peared in  the  press  a  short  time  ago.  Speaking  of  all  our  defense  prep- 
arations and  the  creation  of  materials  for  defense,  he  stated  that  it  also 
should  be  remembered  that  these  things 

can  be  used  against  us  by  an  inside  enemy  just  as  easily  as  we  can  use 
them  against  an  outside  foe.  This  means  a  character-building  cam- 
paign should  be  a  definite  part  of  our  defense  program.  Now,  more 
than  ever  before  in  the  history  of  warfare,  it  is  vital  that  the  people  of 
the  strongest  character  should  furnish  the  men  who  are  to  be  trained 
for  this  new  and  all-important  branch  of  our  national  defense.  Let 
religious  and  civic  leaders  who  are  serious  in  their  prayers  re-read  this 
last  sentence. 

I  am  sure  that  you  and  I,  since  an  army  appears  to  be  a  necessary 
evil — it  has  always  been  so  far  as  history  tells  us  anything,  in  ancient 
Israel,  in  Book  of  Mormon  times,  and  down  to  the  present — since  it 
appears  to  be  a  necessary  evil  under  the  conditions  in  which  we  live,  I 
am  sure  that  you  and  I  would  not  care  to  have  an  army  in  our  midst  made 
up  of  the  worst  elements  of  our  society.  And  I  am  sure  that  our  young 
men  who  remember  who  they  are  and  what  they  are  can  be  a  leaven  and 
a  wholesome  influence  in  this  service  into  which  they  go.  This  applies 
of  course  only  to  those  who  keep  in  mind  their  principles  and  their  ideals 
and  who  always  conduct  themselves  in  accordance  therewith. 

A  LESSON  FROM  THE  LIFE  OF  JACOB 

I  am  reminded  of  the  story  of  Jacob  in  the  Old  Testament,  in 
Genesis,  when  he  was  traveling  in  a  strange  land.  Up  to  that  time  he  had 
had  limited  experience  and  had  been  held  close  to  home  ties.  But  in  this 
strange  place  he  awoke  one  night  after  a  dream  and  said.  "Surely  the 
Lord  is  in  this  place;  and  I  knew  it  not."  (Genesis  28:16)  I  would  like 
our  young  men  to  remember  that  wherever  they  are,  God  is  in  that  place 
and  they  must  take  Him  into  their  confidence  and  conduct  themselves  in 
His  ways. 

We  cannot  departmentalize  the  eternal  record  of  our  lives.  It  is 
one  continued  story.  As  Latter-day  Saints  we  don't  behave  one  way  in 
the  army  and  one  way  in  business  and  another  in  Church.  That  is,  not  if 
we  give  heed  to  our  principles.  We  do  not  behave  one  way  at  home  and 
another  way  away  from  home.  Wherever  we  are,  remember  that  God 
is  in  this  place  also,  and  when  the  final  record  is  written  and  read,  all  that 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

we  have  done  and  thought,  at  home  and  abroad,  in  all  the  occupations 
and  in  all  the  pursuits  that  we  may  be  called  upon  to  undertake,  is  all  a 
part  of  the  eternal  record  of  all  of  us,  and  it  stands  unalterably  for  us  or 
against  us. 

PREPARATION  FOR  LIFE  SHOULD  GO  FORWARD 

And  to  those  young  people  who  are  inclined  to  be  discouraged  by  the 
course  of  events,  those  who  are  oppressed  with  the  spirit  of  "What's  the 
use?"  we  say  to  them,  there  will  always  be  a  future.  Again  quoting 
from  Genesis  a  passage  that  is  a  comforting  assurance:  "While  the 
earth  remaineth,  seed-time  and  harvest,  and  cold  and  heat,  and  summer 
and  winter,  and  day  and  night  shall  not  cease."  (Genesis  8:22.)  And 
we  must  not  cease  in  our  preparations  or  in  our  living  of  life  to  the 
fullest  that  we  are  able  to  do  it  in  accordance  with  the  conditions  and 
opportunities  of  our  own  generation.  If  we  make  the  best  of  all  our 
circumstances  of  our  own  generation  and  time  the  Lord  will  ask  no 
more  of  us. 

Life  is  not  very  long,  I  think.  In  the  normal  course  of  events  mine 
is  now  half  over,  and  I  feel  that  I  have  scarcely  put  my  foot  in  the  door. 
I  am  sure  that  it  isn't  long  enough  to  gamble  any  of  the  values  of  eternity 
against  the  values  of  time.  And  this  thought  recalls  one  of  the  most  im- 
pressive passages  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  which  the  Lord 
spoke  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  one  of  his  hours  of  deepest 
despair : 

My  son,  peace  be  unto  thy  soul;  thine  adversity  and  thine  afflic- 
tions shall  be  but  a  small  moment;  and  then,  if  thou  endure  it  well,  God 
shall  exalt  thee  on  high;  thou  shalt  triumph  over  all  thy  foes.  (Doctrine 
and  Covenants  121 :7,  8.) 

And  so  I  say  to  these  young  men  of  my  generation :  Go  forth  and 
live  your  lives  in  all  of  the  fulness  that  is  possible  for  you,  and  remember 
who  you  are  and  what  you  are,  whether  you  are  at  home  or  abroad,  in 
the  army  or  out  of  it,  and  the  Lord  will  bless  you  and  prosper  you  and 
comfort  you  and  reward  you,  and  bring  good  out  of  all  the  circumstances 
of  your  lives. 

I  leave  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives ;  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ ;  that  Joseph  Smith  and  all  of  his  successors  have  been  prophets 
of  God,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

From  "away  down  under"  there  is  this  that  is  said  by  that  people : 
"A  rain  drop  above  and  a  chrysalis  beneath," — their  way  of  stating  that 
God's  beneficent  kindness  produces  a  beautiful  race  of  human  creatures. 
I  think  if  that  great  race  of  lovely  and  intelligent  people  could  have  the 
privilege  of  seeing  this  gathering,  they  would  know  that  what  their 
forefathers  and  immediate  ancestors  declared  to  them  is  absolutely  true. 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


55 


CONFERENCE  GATHERINGS  IN  THE  TABERNACLE 

We  come  here  twice  each  year,  in  April  and  in  October,  and  have 
been  doing  so  since  1867,  the  year  this  Tabernacle  was  dedicated,  and  each 
Conference  since  has  been  fraught  with  the  splendid  advice,  the  wonderful 
counsel,  and  the  lovely  and  beautiful  testimonies  which  have  been  borne 
here  in  the  past  and  given  to  us  already  in  this  great  April  gathering  of 
1941.  We  have  had  one  hundred  and  forty-eight  Conferences  in  this 
building  since  we  started  to  hold  Conferences  here,  and  I  think  if  there 
were  gathered  together  that  which  has  been  expounded  from  this  pulpit, 
the  world  would  be  greatly  enriched  as  it  never  has  been  before,  and  we 
would  know  and  understand  better  that  which  God  desires  us  to  under- 
stand, and  feel  assured  of  our  future  safety  and  of  our  daily  and  present 
actions. 

PREPARATIONS  FOR  WAR 

I  am  prompted  somewhat  along  the  line  on  which  Brother  Evans 
has  just  been  speaking,  for  I  have  met  with  many  mothers  of  boys  who 
have  been  called  away,  and  in  my  weak  way  I  have  tried  to  comfort 
them,  and  I  fear  all  too  hopelessly  and  inadequately. 

You  know  that  in  this  old  world  and  earth  of  ours  today,  mankind 
are  running  to  and  fro  like  ants  whose  hives  have  been  disturbed,  whose 
homes  have  been  uprooted ;  and  that  over  the  great  expanse  of  the  oceans 
these  monstrous  steel  vessels  are  zigzagging  the  lanes  of  travel,  bearing 
their  precious  burdens,  while  underneath  dives  the  submarine  to  lurk 
beneath  the  waves  and  wait  to  destroy  the  floating  vessels.  Over  and 
above  all  come  the  hissing  sound  and  the  roar  of  the  bombing  planes, 
which  spread  destruction  and  bring  to  us  such  fear. 

There  is,  however,  a  thought  which  comes  in  connection  with  this, 
and  that  is  this :  that  in  China  and  Japan,  in  Italy,  in  England,  in  Ger- 
many, in  Norway,  in  Rumania,  in  almost  every  spot  of  the  earth  men  are 
preparing  for  that  which  Satan  himself  desires.  He,  if  possible,  would 
have  his  own  way,  and  that  is  the  death  of  mankind.  Away  down  under- 
neath us,  in  those  beautiful  jewel-like  islands  of  the  Pacific,  even  in 
them,  men  are  dressing  and  robing  themselves  in  the  attire  of  the  soldier, 
and  the  accouterments  of  war  are  being  gathered  by  them.  Their  faces 
are  stern ;  smiles  have  left  their  countenances,  unless  it  is  the  smirk ;  and 
their  hearts  are  as  lead.  The  cries  of  their  women-folk  go  up  to  heaven 
for  the  assuaging  of  their  sorrows  and  the  bringing  of  relief  from  that 
which  they  face. 

PROPHECIES  OF  WARNING  AND  OF  COMFORT 

God  has  said  some  things  in  prophecies  concerning  this.  All  this 
evil  is  done  in  order  that  some  may  acquire  that  which  they  do  not 
possess  or  rightfully  claim.  To  each  and  every  child  born  upon  this 
earth  God  gave  a  portion  of  it.  It  has  been  bestowed  upon  him  by  right 
of  heirship  from  Adam,  and  even  before  this  earth  was  formed,  the 
Lord  said : 


56 

Saturday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there,  and  we  will  take  of 
these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon  these  may  dwell; 
and  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them. 

Now,  out  of  all  this  greed  and  lust  for  power  comes,  as  I  say,  this 
terrible  confusion.  I  am  impressed  more  each  day  with  the  fact  that  God 
is  my  refuge. 

We,  the  people  of  this  Church — and  I  say  this  not  in  any  way  of 
arrogance,  no,  but  from  my  youth  and  from  my  earliest  recollections  there 
has  come  ringing  down  to  me,  through  the  various  voices  of  the  Presi- 
dents of  this  Church  whom  I  have  known,  this  great  cry — and  I  believe 
that  you  and  I,  we  all  of  us  have  answered  it ;  it  is  significant  that  from 
almost  every  nation  of  this  earth  there  are  people  here  assembled  who 
have  answered  this  cry : 

Come  out  of  her,  my  people,  that  ye  be  not  partakers  of  her  sins, 
and  that  ye  receive  not  of  her  plagues. 

So  that,  so  far  as  we  are  concerned,  unquestionably  we  have  com- 
plied with  and  listened  to  the  wisdom  that  is  from  above,  for  "the  hearing 
ear  and  the  seeing  eye,  God  hath  made  them  both." 

And  then  declares  Isaiah  this : 

He  that  walketh  righteously  and  speaketh  uprightly;  he  that 
despiseth  the  gain  of  oppressions,  that  shaketh  his  hands  from  hold- 
ing of  bribes,  that  stoppeth  his  ears  from  hearing  of  blood,  and  shutteth 
his  eyes  from  seeing  evil; 

He  shall  dwell  on  high;  his  place  of  defense  shall  be  the  munitions 
of  rocks;  bread  shall  be  given  him;  his  waters  shall  be  sure. 

THE  PROMISES  OF  THE  LORD  SURE  OF  FULFILMENT 

God  is  not  unmindful  of  His  children.  God  will  do  that  which  in 
His  own  way  He  has  seen  from  the  beginning,  that  which  is  today  and 
that  which  has  come  before,  that  which  He  directs  and  continues  to 
control,  as  surely  as  we  live  upon  this  earth. 

There  is  a  promise,  and  that  promise  has  been  repeated  and  reiterated 
from  this  stand  hundreds  of  times.  I  would  like  all  the  Saints  to  remem- 
ber that  promise.  It  is  this: 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last  days,  that  the  mountain  of 
the  Lord's  house  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and 
shall  be  exalted  above  the  hills;  and  all  nations  shall  flow  unto  it. 

And  many  people  shall  go  and  say,  Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to 
the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he 
will  teach  us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths;  for  out  of 
Zion  shall  go  forth  the  law,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  Jerusalem. 

So  I  say,  let  all  of  us  draw  in  from  our  wanderings  and  distress  of 
mind,  and  rely  upon  God  and  what  He  has  promised.  Surely  there  shall 
come  to  us  comfort  and  there  should  come  to  us  a  greater  knowledge 
than  to  any  other  people  upon  this  earth,  that  if  we  do  that  which  we 
profess,  God  is  with  us,  His  people,  and  all  others  that  obey  Him,  and 
that  all  is  right  in  the  heavens  above  and  on  the  earth  beneath. 


ELDER  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON 


57 


THE  STAKE  MISSIONARY  WORK 

We  are  doing  not  only  all  that  we  can  do  for  our  own  beloved  land, 
as  a  nation,  but  we  are  doing  for  those  who  dwell  in  our  immediate 
vicinity  that  which  God  commanded  us  to  do.  Our  missionaries  are 
scattering  abroad  the  truths  which  they  have  received.  It  was  my  pleasure 
to  tell  you,  a  year  ago,  that  during  the  year  1939  the  Stake  missionaries 
had  performed  2,220  baptisms ;  and  again  I  say  to  you  that  last  year,  in 
1940,  the  same  missionary  group  of  splendid  men  and  women  brought 
into  this  Church  2,203  converts. 

This  work  goes  on  apace,  and  God  is  calling  more  unto  the  fold  each 
day  and  doing  more  for  them  and  for  our  communities  as  a  whole.  With 
cheerful  hearts  these  missionaries  have  gone  out  and  performed  this 
labor  of  love  with  the  help  and  assistance  of  the  splendid  Stake  presi- 
dencies which  we  have  in  the  Church.  So  I  say,  with  grateful  hearts 
let  us  give  unto  God  the  honor  and  the  glory  and  the  praise. 

Above  everything  else  may  we  have  that  sweet  assurance  which  He 
has  given  through  His  servants  to  us,  from  this  stand,  and  from  His 
servant,  Joseph  Smith,  and  all  the  revelations  of  scripture  which  have 
been  given  to  us,  that  we  shall,  through  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordi- 
nances of  this  Gospel,  not  be  destroyed  but  ultimately  gain  salvation  and 
our  reward.  I  ask  that  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 

The  Blackfoot  Stake  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Jesu,  Priceless 
Treasure" — Bach. 

ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

Some  of  you  wonder  why  some  of  us  who  have  the  responsibility 
which  is  mine  at  this  particular  moment  frequently  ask  for  guidance 
from  above.  If  some  of  you  had  this  responsibility  I  believe  you  would 
be  asking  for  the  same  help. 

It  has  just  been  my  pleasure  to  make  a  visit  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands. 
I  am  sure  those  who  have  been  to  this  beautiful  country  will  not  be  at 
all  surprised  if,  in  the  few  weak  words  I  may  say  on  this  particular  oc- 
casion I  refer  to  these  islands  and  those  wonderful  people. 

A  LESSON  DRAWN  FROM  FISHING  IN  HAWAII 

In  speaking  of  guidance  from  above,  I  am  reminded  that  some  of  us 
take  ourselves  very  seriously,  in  fact  too  seriously,  sometimes.  If  we 
would  continually  seek  for  guidance  from  above,  we  would  all  be  better 
off.  In  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  they  catch  fish  in  different  ways.  One  of 
the  parts  played  in  the  most  popular  way  of  fishing  is  to  have  one  of  the 
natives  go  to  a  precipice  or  high  mountain  overlooking  the  bay,  or  the 
place  where  they  fish,  and  he,  from  that  particular  viewpoint,  directs  the 
fishing.  By  the  way,  as  you  go  over  the  islands  in  an  airplane  and  you 
look  down  in  the  water,  you  find  it  as  clear  as  crystal.  You  can  see  the 
coral  below.    Of  course,  he  can  see  the  schools  of  fish  as  they  move 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 


about.  This  man  on  the  heights  scans  the  water  below,  locates  the  school 
of  fish,  signals  to  the  natives  below.  They  go  out  sometimes  with  a  mile 
of  net  and  corral,  if  you  please,  the  fish,  and,  of  course,  all  is  accomplish- 
ed by  this  continual  signalling  back  and  forth.  Without  this  guidance 
from  above  the  fishermen  would  make  many  a  false  move.  Much  of  his 
work  would  be  guesswork,  there  would  be  much  lost  motion  because  of 
a  lack  of  vision. 

That  little  story  of  fishing  has  meant  much  to  me.  We  can't  get 
very  far  unless  we  have  communication  from  above.  There  must  be 
signalling  going  on  between  us  on  earth  and  One  on  high.  We  are  some- 
times so  close  to  the  forest  we  don't  see  the  trees.  Sometimes  if  the 
source  of  our  guidance  were  farther  away,  we  would  see  more  clearly. 
Our  work  would  be  easier  and  our  catch  greater  if  we  had  communica- 
tion from  above. 

EXPERIENCE  BROADENED  BY  PERSPECTIVE 

This  trip  to  Hawaii  and  our  contact  with  this  new  people  reminded 
me  of  the  story  of  a  little  bird.  I  think  the  story  was  in  an  old  reader. 
The  bird  first  lived  in  a  pale  blue  shell  and  it  thought  the  whole  world 
was  pale  blue.  Its  next  experience  was  a  nest,  and  it  thought  the  whole 
world  was  feathers  and  sticks.  Its  next  vision  was  from  the  top  of  the 
nest.  After  the  mother  and  father  had  crowded  it  out,  it  thought  the 
whole  world  was  green  leaves.  One  day,  in  the  course  of  the  education 
by  the  parents,  the  children  were  pushed  out  of  the  tree  and  they  found 
a  big  world  before  them.  Sometimes  I  think  we  are  like  the  little  bird. 
Our  thinking  apparatus,  if  you  please,  works,  depending  on  what  our 
experience  is.  We  sometimes  think  the  whole  world  is  a  pale  blue  shell 
because  our  experience  is  so  limited.  Our  gauge  is  broadened  by  the 
experience  we  get  when  we  get  out  of  that  tree.  We  have  a  better  per- 
spective of  things. 

These  Hawaiian  people — I  have  had  some  thrilling  moments  in  my 
life.  I  often  think  back  on  those  things  in  my  life  that  have  been  thrill- 
ing moments.  I  want  to  say  very  frankly  and  clearly  here  that  never 
have  I  been  thrilled  more  than  in  the  contact  with  those  people.  Sometimes 
we  get  a  notion  that  all  the  virtues  belong  to  the  white  race.  We  will 
change  our  minds  some  day. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  THE  PEOPLE  IN  HAWAII 

Speaking  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission  under  Brother  Cox  and  the 
Japanese  Mission  under  Jay  Jensen,  those  men  are  doing  a  wonderful 
piece  of  work.  As  I  have  said,  I  have  had  a  lot  of  thrills,  but  I'  have 
never  been  thrilled  more  than  two  weeks  ago  today,  at  the  Fast  Meeting 
of  those  Japanese  people.  Boys  and  girls  from  fifteen  up,  two  at  a  time, 
crowded  to  the  front  to  bear  their  testimonies.  Those  people  are  won- 
derful people.  Those  Chinese  people,  the  Japanese,  the  Hawaiians,  and 
what  not,  some  of  those  dark-skinned  people  have  the  best  blood  flow- 
ing through  their  veins  of  any  people  that  the  Lord  ever  created.  Some 
time  we  will  find  it  out. 


ELDER  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON 


59 


They  sing  because  they  have  to.  It  is  spontaneous  combustion,  if 
you  please.  They  love  because  they  must  love.  They  put  a  lei  around 
your  neck.  Love  prompts  it  and  in  their  bestowing  the  lei  they  expect 
only  love  in  return.  It  gives  you  a  sweat  bath  by  the  time  they  get  you 
decorated  the  way  they  do;  but  better  than  a  sweat  bath  around  your 
neck  is  the  warmth  that  comes  to  your  heart.  You  can't  get  away  from 
it.  There  you  find  nature  in  the  rough,  if  you  please,  but  not  very  great 
emphasis  on  the  "rough."  There  were  some  of  the  highest  class,  best 
educated  people  that  I  have  ever  met  among  those  people ;  they  are  cul- 
tured and  refined. 

I  want  to  state  here  that  if  you  ever  have  had  in  your  philosophy : 
"God  bless  me  and  my  wife,  and  our  son  John  and  his  wife,  us  four  and 
no  more" — if  you  have  got  that  in  your  system,  take  a  trip  to  the  Islands. 
It  will  do  you  a  wonderful  lot  of  good.  Hawaii  is  the  gateway  to  the 
Pacific,  the  gateway  to  the  Orient.  Millions  and  millions  of  people,  the 
best  people  in  the  world  are  there. 

I  sometimes  believe  in  order  that  our  thinking  be  straight  and  our 
conduct  right  that  we  have  to  go  up-stream  once  in  a  while  to  the  source 
of  the  fountain — go  back  to  Christ.  What  is  the  Gospel  ?  Do  we  pervert 
it  sometimes  ?  Do  we  adulterate  it  ?  Do  we  get  away  from  the  original 
article?  My  experience  with  those  people  taught  me  that  they  have  a 
wholesomeness,  a  piece  of  that  original  Gospel  spirit  that  we  shouldn't 
get  away  from.  Sometimes  we  do  pervert  it ;  we  change  it.  With  all 
of  our  civilization  and  the  advantages  that  come  with  it,  our  thinking  is 
corrupted.  We  so  change  the  original  article  that  the  one  looking  for 
the  real  thing  can't  recognize  the  substitute. 

I  heard  this  story  the  other  day.  It  did  me  good.  An  antique  wor- 
shipper—  you  have  them  all  through  this  country ;  some  of  your  wives 
are  antique  worshippers.  (Laughter.)  Maybe  I  didn't  mean  that,  just  the 
way  that  you  took  it.  If  you  think  I  meant  some  of  your  husbands,  well,  let 
it  go.  This  antique  worshipper  was  going  about  in  Virginia.  He  came  to  a 
farm  where  they  were  doing  some  advertising  of  antiques.  His  eye 
spied  an  old  man  out  in  the  yard  chopping  wood.  In  his  scrutinizing 
this  thing  and  that,  he  went  up  to  the  man  and  the  conversation  was  about 
as  follows :  "How  do  you  do  ?"  He  said :  "It  looks  like  an  old  axe  that 
you  are  using."  The  old  man  stopped.  Said  he :  "Yes,  they  have  said 
that  this  is  an  axe  that  George  Washington  used  to  use."  Of  course,  the 
eyes  of  the  antique  lover  bulged.  Exclaimed  he,  "My  dear  man,  if  that 
is  the  axe  George  Washington  used,  I  would  give  you  a  right  good  price 
for  it."  The  old  man  grinned.  "The  only  trouble  is,  if  this  was  the  axe 
that  George  Washington  used,  I  know  this  is  the  third  head  it  has  had 
and  the  fifth  handle." 

In  the  spirit  we  do  things  and  in  our  interpretation  of  the  Gospel, 
that  is  exactly  what  we  are  doing.  We  have  changed  the  head  several 
times  and  what  we  are  chopping  with  has  had  thrust  into  it  the  fifth 
handle.  We  have  to  go  back  up-stream  sometimes  to  see  what  the  real 
spirit  of  the  Gospel  really  is.  In  those  islands  you  find  it.  I  want  to  say 
that. 


60 

Saturday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


THE  MENACE  OF  INTOXICANTS 

Just  one  more  word  in  closing :  In  my  observation,  in  going  to  and 
fro,  including  life  on  the  boat,  including  conduct  going  to  restaurants,  it 
is  my  judgment  that  America  never  was  going  at  such  a  pace  as  she  is 
going  right  now  in  this  liquor  business.  We  are  going  fast  and  furious. 
It  will  take  stamina  of  steel  to  stem  the  tide.  I  never  was  more  im- 
pressed in  my  life.  We  are  going  drink  crazy.  The  example  we  are 
setting  the  youth  is  criminal. 

We  members  of  the  Bishopric  are  to  be  forgiven  if  we  continually 
hammer  on  this  youth  question.  Speaking  again  of  the  youth,  I  saw  a 
sight  that  impressed  me  much.  Will  you  please  let  me  tell  you  about  it  ? 
A  good  bishop  was  taking  me  on  an  inspection  trip  about  the  island.  In 
the  course  of  our  travels  he  said,  "I  want  to  show  you  something.  You 
probably  haven't  seen  anything  like  this  before."  He  was  right — I  had 
not.  All  over  the  islands  everywhere  were  cocoanut  trees.  Everywhere 
they  stood  erect  with  their  fruit  to  the  sun.  They  were  in  most  everyone's 
yard  and  on  many  of  the  highways.  He  repeated,  "I  want  to  show  you 
something."  He  took  me  to  a  yard  and  there  on  the  ground  crawling  as 
it  were,  like  a  great  SO-foot  python  snake  was  a  cocoanut  tree.  It  did 
everything  but  cut  the  figure  8  in  sprawling  and  looping  the  loop.  In- 
stead of  keeping  its  head  up  and  majestically  filling  its  destiny  in  the 
world,  that  ten  inch  monster  was  crawling  in  the  dust. 

I  thought  to  myself :  Well,  there  is  the  way  some  of  our  youth  are 
brought  up.  Somebody,  when  that  plant  was  just  taking  root,  gave  it  a 
kick.  Even  then,  when  yet  tender  if  someone  had  only  given  it  a  kind 
touch,  it  would  have  gone  straight.  Instead  of  the  tree  facing  the  sun, 
its  fruit  toward  the  sun,  there  it  was  sprawled  on  the  ground — too  late, 
the  day  of  correction  past. 

That  is  our  great  problem.  It  is  going  to  take  courage  to  stem  the 
tide.  The  enemy  are  the  millions.  I  often  think  of  that  story  of  the  Greek 
at  Thermopylae.  When  he  was  told  that  the  arrows  of  the  Persians 
darkened  the  sun,  he  said,  "So  much  the  better.  We  will  fight  in  the 
shade."  Yes,  in  this  fight  against  this  demon,  liquor,  we'll  have  to  fight 
in  the  shade.  Let's  put  on  our  shield  and  may  we  fight  on  with  the  same 
undaunted  valor  of  the  Greek  youth,  whose  mother  buckled  on  his  shield 
and  said,  "Come  with  it  or  on  it." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  with  courage — if  we  ever  needed  it,  it  is  to- 
day. Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  shall  enjoy  a 
portion  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  the  attempt  to  address  you  this 
morning. 

THE  TEACHINGS  OF  A  GOOD  MOTHER 

I  am  ever  grateful  to  an  angel  mother  for  the  many  lessons  she 
taught  me  with  respect  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  inspired 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


61 


leadership  that  stands  at  the  head  of  this  Church.  I  distinctly  recall 
how  she  took  me,  as  a  small  child,  to  her  knee  and  impressed  upon  me 
the  fact  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet;  and  furthermore,  she  im- 
pressed me  with  her  burning  testimony  that  the  present  leadership  of 
this  Church,  and  for  all  time,  is  and  would  be  inspired  men  of  God. 

THE  LEADERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  SERVANTS  OF  GOD 

I  am  now  grateful  that  I  can  testify  to  you  that  this  great  organi- 
zation is  being  directed  by  our  Heavenly  Father  through  the  instrumen- 
tality of  prophets  and  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Those  of  us 
who  listened  to  President  Grant  yesterday,  had  in  our  hearts  a  burning 
feeling  that  he  is,  indeed,  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  that  there  rests  upon 
him  the  same  mantle  of  authority  that  Joseph  Smith  and  Brigham 
Young  enjoyed,  and  all  other  Presidents  of  the  Church  who  have  suc- 
ceeded them  as  the  Lord's  mouthpiece  here  upon  earth. 

It  is  a  most  wonderful  privilege  to  covenant  with  the  Lord  periodi- 
cally that  we  will  sustain  these  brethren  as  servants  of  God  and  obey 
the  counsel  they  impart  to  us.  In  following  their  counsel  and  advice, 
we  will  always  be  found  doing  those  things  which  will  be  for  our 
ultimate  good  and  benefit. 

OBEDIENCE  A  SAVING  PRINCIPLE 

There  is  one  lesson  the  world  needs  to  learn,  namely,  the  lesson 
of  obedience.  Had  the  children  of  men  been  obedient  to  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord,  the  terrible  catastrophe  that  is  now  taking  place  in 
Europe  could  have  been  prevented.  But  through  disobedience  and  the 
fact  that  men  have  forgotten  the  Lord  and  what  He  expects  of  them, 
calamity  and  ruin  have  come  upon  the  nations. 

I  would  that  all  of  us  could  learn  and  understand  the  principle  of 
obedience  as  Adam  learned  and  understood  it.  He  was  commanded  to 
build  altars  upon  which  to  offer  sacrifices.  And  upon  one  occasion, 
after  having  complied  with  this  commandment,  an  angel  of  the  Lord 
appeared  to  him  and  asked  him  the  question: 

Why  dost  thou  offer  sacrifices  unto  the  Lord?  And  Adam  said 
unto  him:  I  know  not,  save  the  Lord  commanded  me. 

And  then  the  angel  spake,  saying:  This  thing  is  a  similitude  of  the 
sacrifice  of  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  which  is  full  of  grace  and 
truth.  (Moses  5:6-7.) 

In  Adam's  mind  there  was  no  question  why  he  should  render 
obedience,  for  he  knew  that  whatever  the  Lord  commanded  him  to  do 
would  be  for  his  good  and  benefit. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  after  Adam  had  fulfilled  the  com- 
mandment of  offering  up  sacrifices,  the  Lord  rewarded  him  with  a 
visitation  from  a  divine  being,  imparting  to  Adam  the  knowledge  why 
he  was  to  offer  sacrifices.  And  this  applies  to  each  and  everyone  of  us 
when  obeying  the  commandments  of  the  Gospel.  We  may  not  under- 
stand them  fully ;  but  through  obedience,  the  Lord  will  reveal  to  us  the 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

reason  and  the  knowledge  which  will  give  us  a  full,  clear  comprehension 
of  the  law  or  the  commandment  involved. 

This  point  of  obedience  without  a  complete  understanding  is  denned 
so  beautifully  by  Montaigne.  He  declared: 

The  first  law  that  ever  God  gave  to  man  was  a  law  of  pure 
obedience.  It  was  a  commandment,  naked  and  simple,  wherein  man 
had  nothing  to  inquire  about,  after,  or  dispute  for  inasmuch  as  to  obey 
is  the  proper  office  of  a  rational  soul,  acknowledging  a  heavenly, 
superior  benefactor,  from  obedience  and  submission  spring  all  victory, 
as  all  sin  does  from  selfish  opinion. 

Carlyle  declared,  too: 

Obedience  is  our  uniform  duty  and  destiny,  wherein  whoso  will 
not  bend  must  break. 

The  Lord  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  plainly  indicated 
that  the  achievement  of  any  blessing  is  predicated  upon  obedience.  In 
the  130th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we  read: 

And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life 
through  his  diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so 
much  the  advantage  in  the  world  to  come. 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  founda- 
tions of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience 
to  that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated.   (D.  &  C.  130:19-21.) 

Success,  spiritually  and  temporally,  will  only  be  achieved  to  the 
degree  that  the  laws  involved  are  obeyed.  The  highest  degree  of  success 
is  accomplished  by  rendering  the  fullest  degree  of  obedience  to  the 
fundamentals  and  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ;  and  the 
same  is  true  in  any  line  of  endeavor  that  we  may  choose  to  follow. 

DISOBEDIENCE  BRINGS  ITS  OWN  PUNISHMENT 

Disobedience  represents  that  which  is  negative.  It  had  its  incep- 
tion in  the  great  council  of  heaven  where  one  of  the  sons  of  God  took 
a  negative  attitude  and  stand  toward  the  Lord.  Consequently,  disobedi- 
ence leads  men  away  from  the  Lord  and  places  them  in  the  paths  of 
sin,  degradation,  and  failure.  Brother  Merrill  indicated  to  us  this  morn- 
ing that  we  should  harken  unto  the  affirmative  spirit,  that  spirit  being 
best  expressed  in  obedience  to  the  mind  and  will  of  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

The  Prophet  Jeremiah  pointed  out  in  unmistakable  terms  that  in 
disobedience  the  people  brought  upon  them  their  own  punishment.  He 
declared  : 

Thine  own  wickedness  shall  correct  thee,  and  thy  backslidings 
shall  reprove  thee:  know  therefore  and  see  that  it  is  an  evil  thing  and 
bitter,  that  thou  hast  forsaken  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  that  my  fear  is 
not  in  thee,  saith  the  Lord  God  of  hosts.  (Jeremiah  2:19.) 

This  ancient  prophet  points  out  plainly  that  in  disobedience  the 
children  of  men  always  find  a  penalty  involved,  just  as  much  so  as  there  is 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


63 


a  reward  for  rendering  obedience  to  the  Lord.  The  Lord,  too,  has 
declared : 

And  my  people  must  needs  be  chastened  until  they  learn  obedience, 
if  it  must  needs  be,  by  the  things  which  they  suffer.  (D.  &  C.  105:6.) 

Brigham  Young  declared: 

Anything  that  is  impure  must  sooner  or  later  perish,  no  matter 
whether  it  is  in  the  faith  and  practice  of  the  individual,  town,  nation,  or 
government.  That  kingdom,  principality,  power,  or  person  that  is  not 
controlled  by  principles  that  are  pure  and  holy  must  eventually  pass 
away  and  perish. 

Disobedience  begets  that  which  is  impure  and  the  penalty  involved 
is  that  of  destruction. 

The  children  of  Israel  were  a  chastened  people.  The  Lord  harkened 
unto  their  cries  for  deliverance  from  bondage,  and  under  the  leadership 
of  the  Prophet  Moses,  led  them  out  of  Egypt  across  the  Red  Sea,  and 
into  the  wilderness.  They  became  disobedient.  Unholy  practices  sprang 
up  among  them.  They  forgot  God.  They  worshiped  the  golden  calf. 
The  penalty  for  this  disobedience  was  one  which  forced  them  to  wander 
for  40  long  years  in  the  wilderness  before  they  finally  understood  the 
lesson  of  obedience. 

OBEDIENCE  SHOWN  BY  EARLY  LATTER-DAY  SAINT  PIONEERS 

Our  pioneer  fathers  and  mothers  came  into  this  valley,  conquered 
the  elements,  and  subdued  the  soil,  achieving  the  highest  place  among 
American  pioneers  because  they  harkened  unto  the  will  and  the  mind  of 
the  Lord,  made  manifest  through  His  servants,  the  prophets. 

Brigham  Young  said: 

The  Latter-day  Saints,  in  all  their  travels,  have  not  been  as 
rebellious  as  the  children  of  Israel  were. 

One  of  the  most  interesting  and  intriguing  bits  of  Mormon  history 
is  that  which  had  to  do  with  the  group  of  pioneers  who  made  the  long, 
weary  trek  from  the  Missouri  River  to  these  mountains.  Shortly  there- 
after many  of  them  were  called  to  settle  the  San  Bernardino  Valley  in 
southern  California.  The  terrain  from  the  Salt  Lake  Valley  to  the  San 
Bernardino  Valley  is  one  of  waste  and  desert,  particularly  the  great 
Mojave  Desert.  But  they  were  under  mandate  to  make  the  journey, 
and  obeyed  accordingly.  This  band  of  devoted  Latter-day  Saints  re- 
mained in  the  San  Bernardino  district  for  six  years.  A  large  portion  of 
the  original  purchase  of  35,000  acres  of  land  was  cultivated,  schools 
were  established,  store  buildings  and  churches  were  erected,  a  flour 
mill  and  saw  mills  were  placed  in  operation;  and  this  area  became  a 
thriving,  prosperous  community. 

The  New  York  Herald  gleaned  from  the  San  Francisco  Herald 
that  the  Mormon  settlement  was  in  a  valley — 

....  unsurpassed  for  fertility  of  soil,  salubrity  of  climate,  beauty  of 
scenery,  and  general  desirableness,  by  any  portion  of  the  State.  Their 
agricultural  interest  is  larger  than  that  of  Santa  Barbara,  Los  Angeles, 
and  San  Diego  Counties  united,  and  the  capabilities  of  producing  are 
much  better. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


These  people  had  a  bright  future.  But  one  day,  word  was  received 
from  Salt  Lake  City  that  they  were  to  return  immediately.  An  invading 
army  was  on  the  boundaries  of  the  State  of  Utah.  Without  question  the 
members  of  the  San  Bernardino  colony  left  their  pleasant  homes,  farms, 
mills,  schools,  and  once  more  traversed  the  barren  wastes  of  the  Mojave 
Desert.  And  what  was  their  response?  Willingly  they  rendered  obedi- 
ence to  the  word  of  the  Prophet  of  God.  This  quality  of  obedience  laid 
the  foundations  for  this  great  intermountain  commonwealth  in  which 
we  live.  And  it  was  this  type  of  obedience  which  made  it  possible  for 
our  Heavenly  Father,  through  His  servants,  to  restore  the  Church  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the  last  days. 

I  have  often  wondered  what  became  of  these  people  after  they  re- 
turned to  Utah.  I  wonder  if  they  were  blessed  temporally.  I  have 
wondered  what  their' attitude  was.  I  am  sure  that  if  we  could  have  an 
expression  from  them  it  would  be  phrased  in  the  words  of  the  Christ : 

For  what  shall  it  profit  a  man,  if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world 
and  lose  his  own  soul?  (Mark  8:36.) 

So,  again,  may  I  remind  you  of  these  words  spoken  by  our  Redeemer : 

I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say,  but  when  ye  do  not 
what  I  say,  ye  have  no  promise.  (D.  &  C.  82:10.) 

Our  pioneer  fathers  leaned  on  the  Lord  and  rendered  obedience; 
and  He  has  kept  His  promises  in  that  they  and  we,  their  descendants, 
have  been  abundantly  blessed. 


Making  reference  to  the  valleys  of  Utah,  Brigham  Young  said: 

Talk  about  these  rich  valleys,  why  there  is  not  another  people  on 
the  earth  that  could  have  come  here  and  lived.  We  prayed  over  the 
land,  and  dedicated  it  and  the  water,  air  and  everything  pertaining 
to  them  unto  the  Lord,  and  the  smiles  of  heaven  rested  on  the  land 
and  it  became  productive,  and  today  yields  us  the  best  of  grain,  fruit 
and  vegetables. 

The  Lord  blessed  the  people  who  were  obedient.  Their  obedience 
has  brought  the  blessings  of  heaven  upon  this  fair  land.  It  has  become 
as  a  garden,  blessed  with  a  varied  abundance  of  all  that  goes  to  make  life 
pleasant  and  comfortable.  We  of  today  are  the  recipients  of  blessings 
literally  wrought  out  of  the  obedience  of  our  forefathers. 


The  Lord  definitely  kept  His  promise  at  the  time  President  Snow 
traveled  up  and  down  the  State  pleading  with  the  people  to  be  obedient 
to  the  command  of  tithing,  promising  them  in  the  name  of  Israel's  God 
that  the  windows  of  heaven  would  be  literally  opened  and  the  blessings 
of  heaven  showered  down  upon  them.  The  crops  of  the  southern  part  of 
the  State  were  parching  and  drying  up  because  of  a  lack  of  moisture. 
The  people  harkened  to  the  voice  of  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord.  They 
obeyed  the  commandment  of  tithing.  Rain  fell.  Crops  were  saved.  And 


A  LAND  BLESSED  BY  THE  LORD 


PROMISES  OF  THE  LORD  SURE  OF  FULFILMENT 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WlRTHLlN 


65 


from  that  day  to  this,  the  Church  has  rested  on  a  strong  financial  foun- 
dation due  to  the  obedience  of  many  of  its  members  to  the  financial  law 
of  God's  Kingdom. 

President  Grant  admonishes  the  membership  of  the  Church  to 
keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  promise  of  the  Lord  being  that  those 
who  observe  the  Lord's  law  of  health  will  be  blessed  with  alert  minds 
and  strong  bodies.  More  than  that,  He  has  promised  to  us  revelations 
which  will  give  to  the  world  treasures  of  hidden  knowledge.  As  a  people, 
we  should  be  the  most  obedient  to  the  Lord  in  the  whole  world  because 
we  are  a  covenant  people.  We  have  entered  the  House  of  Jacob's 
God,  which  House  was  to  be  established  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains 
in  the  last  days ;  and  in  this  Holy  of  Holies  we  have  covenanted  with 
the  Lord  that  we  will  contribute  of  our  time,  talents,  and  resources  for 
the  building  up  of  the  Kingdom.  Like  Adam  of  old  we  should  be  will- 
ing to  obey,  for  we  accept  God  the  Eternal  Father  as  our  God,  and 
Jesus  Christ  as  the  Redeemer. 

OUR  OBLIGATION  TO  THE  WORLD 

The  world  needs  an  example  in  obedience.  The  Lord  has  desig- 
nated us  as  that  example.  Our  destiny  as  a  people  is  one  of  leadership. 
And  the  day  is  not  far  distant  when  the  nations  now  engaged  in  this 
bloody  struggle  will  finally  come  to  the  conclusion  that  war  is  futile, 
that  it  is  entirely  useless  to  kill  men  and  destroy  property.  They  will 
seek  for  a  philosophy  of  life  which  will  bring  peace,  harmony,  and  good 
will  among  them ;  and  they  will  find  it  only  in  one  place  and  among  but 
one  people — that  place  will  be  in  the  tops  of  these  mighty  mountains 
and  among  this  people,  the  covenant  people  who  call  themselves  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

A  great  responsibility  devolves  upon  us,  individually  and  collectively 
— an  obligation  to  exemplify  to  the  world  in  our  lives  and  through  obeying 
God's  commandments,  that  the  Restored  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  upon 
the  earth  in  its  fulness  and  simplicity,  and  obedience  to  it  brings  peace, 
joy,  and  good  will.  May  we  render  that  degree  of  obedience  which  will 
cause  the  Lord  to  say  of  us  as  He  did  the  children  of  ancient  Israel : 

Now  therefore,  if  ye  will  obey  my  voice  indeed,  and  keep  my  cove- 
nant, then  ye  shall  be  a  peculiar  treasure  unto  me  above  all  people: 
for  all  the  earth  is  mine.  (Exo.  19:5.) 

Through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  He  placed  upon  us  the  following 
mandate  in  the  115th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

Verily  I  say  unto  you  all:  Arise  and  shine  forth,  that  thy  light 
may  be  a  standard  for  the  nations.  (D.  &  C.  115:5.) 

This  is  the  destiny  of  the  Church.  This  is  the  challenge  of  the 
Lord  to  His  people. 

May  the  Lord  so  strengthen  us  individually  and  collectively  that 
we  will  willingly  render  the  necessary  obedience  which  will  exemplify 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  to  all  men  and  to  all  the  world,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Christ  Himself,  that  highest  authority,  said :  "Blessed  are  the  peace- 
makers: for  they  shall  be  called  the  children  of  God."  (Matt.  5:9) 
Nothing  does  the  world  need  more  these  days  than  peacemakers.  And 
if  out  of  the  conflicts  of  battle  which  are  now  going  forward  with  un- 
precedented fury  can  come  those  who  can  and  do  plan  a  permanent  peace, 
truly  all  such  will  be  children  of  God. 

THREATENING  FORCES 

These  are  not  ordinary  days.  We  live  in  momentous  times.  A 
survey  of  conditions  in  the  troubled  world  of  today  reveals  the  fact  that 
we  have  made  little  if  any  progress  toward  that  peace  and  good  will 
which  the  Savior  of  mankind  taught  nineteen  centuries  ago.  Civilized 
nations  of  the  earth  are  marshalling  their  man-power  and  their  material 
resources  for  war  and  for  defense  on  a  scale  the  world  has  never  known 
before.  Forces  are  abroad  in  the  earth  which  threaten  the  overthrow  of 
liberty,  of  democracy  and  of  our  way  of  life,  if  not  of  our  very  civiliza- 
tion. War,  devastating,  destructive  and  barbarous,  is  scourging  the  air, 
the  sea  and  the  land.  These  are  anxious  days  for  all  of  us.  More  than 
16J4  million  of  our  young  men  between  the  ages  of  21  and  36  have  al- 
ready registered  for  service  in  the  United  States.  I  repeat  that  for  all  of 
us  these  are  anxious  days. 

Two  important  questions  present  themselves  to  those  who  ponder 
this  situation. 

1.  What  can  we  do  about  it? 

2.  What  will  come  after  it? 

FAITH,  THE  ONLY  REMEDY 

The  ingenuity  of  man  seems  powerless  to  stay  the  dreadful  ravages 
of  modern  war.  The  world  is  in  distress,  it  is  struggling  in  agony  be- 
cause men  in  their  selfishness  have  forgotten  God;  they  have  forsaken 
the  ways  of  truth,  mercy,  justice  and  righteousness.  Somehow  or  other 
the  fate  of  mankind  hangs  on  faith  in  the  Creator  of  the  world. 

The  religion  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  which  is  the  religion  of  our 
Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ,  contains  and  presents  the  forces  that  make 
for  righteousness  and  peace  in  the  earth.  Morality  centers  in  religion. 
Without  its  saving  power  democracy  cannot  survive.  Selfishness,  greed, 
ambition  and  lust  for  power  always,  if  they  go  unbridled,  manifest  them- 
selves in  contention  and  bloodshed.  Unless  these  tendencies  are  chasten- 
ed and  controlled  by  the  spirit  written  in  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  unless 
the  unselfish  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  finds  a  place  in  the 
hearts  of  men  and  manifests  itself  in  their  relationship  one  to  another, 
civilization  is  sure  to  decline.  Righteousness  is  fundamental  to  the  peace 
and  progress  of  the  world.  How  can  this  spirit  be  cultivated?  What 
can  be  done  to  bring  to  the  world  that  peace  for  which  we  pray  ?  How 
can  we  cultivate  and  make  effective  the  spirit  of  the  Master?  These  are 
pertinent  questions  that  should  be  asked  these  days. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


67 


"seek  and  ye  shall  find" 

I  shall  submit  to  you  good  folks  for  your  consideration  two  very 
simple  but  fundamental  ways  which  in  the  end,  if  faithfully  followed,  will 
help  to  bring  peace  of  mind  and  ultimate  prosperity  by  establishing  a 
partnership  with  Him  to  whom  nothing  is  impossible.  Prayer  is  the  first 
approach  to  the  Almighty.  He  is,  always  has  been  and  forever  will 
continue  to  be  our  strength  and  our  refuge.  We  know  that  He  still  lives 
and  that  He  reigns  on  high.  Christ  Himself  said : 

Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find;  knock,  and 
it  shall  be  opened  unto  you:  For  everyone  that  asketh  receiveth;  and 
he  that  seeketh  findeth;  and  to  him  that  knocketh  it  shall  be  opened. 
(Matthew  7:7-8.) 

The  religion  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  brings  to  the  world  the  bright 
assurance  that  God  the  Eternal  Father  is  still  in  His  Heaven  keeping 
watch  over  His  children.  He  holds  in  His  hands  the  destiny  of  men  and 
the  destiny  of  nations.  In  His  own  time  and  in  His  own  appointed  way, 
He  will  see  that  righteousness  is  rewarded,  that  justice  is  meted  out,  and 
finally  that  truth  will  triumph.  I  am  of  the  firm  conviction  that  only 
through  a  real  return  to  true  religion  can  a  permanent  peace  come  to  the 
world.   There  is  no  other  way. 

APPEAL  TO  ATTEND  SACRAMENT  MEETINGS 

One  of  the  two  simple  ways  in  which  Latter-day  Saints  may  come 
into  communion  and  partnership  with  our  Heavenly  Father  is  in  our 
weekly  Sacrament  meetings.  We  do  not  attend  these  meetings  primarily 
to  get  knowledge  or  to  be  taught,  but  to  worship,  to  partake  of  the  sacra- 
ment, to  bow  our  heads,  close  our  eyes,  repent  of  our  wrong  doings,  feel 
sorry  for  our  sins,  ask  to  be  forgiven  and  appeal  to  our  Heavenly  Father 
for  His  help  and  guidance  in  our  efforts  to  overcome  our  weaknesses. 
These  meetings  have  a  specific  purpose  to  build  up  the  spirituality,  to 
increase  the  faith,  to  strengthen  the  testimony,  to  fill  the  soul  with  a  zeal 
for  the  truth,  and  hearts  with  a  love  for  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 

I  appeal  to  all  Latter-day  Saints  to  come  to  these  places  of  worship 
and  there  in  deep  humility  and  with  contrite  hearts  make  of  the  Lord 
a  confidential  friend,  tell  Him  of  our  weaknesses,  confess  our  shortcom- 
ings and  seek  devoutly  for  forgiveness,  remembering  that  one  great 
glorious  and  comforting  principle  of  the  Gospel  is  repentance  and  for- 
giveness. The  scripture  tells  us : 

Though  your  sins  be  as  scarlet,  they  shall  be  white  as  snow; 
though  they  be  red  like  crimson,  they  shall  be  as  wool.    (Isaiah  1:18.) 

When  we  have  truly  repented,  when  we  have  set  our  own  houses  in 
order,  let  us  remember  that  if  we  ask  "with  faith  as  a  grain  of  mustard 
seed"  nothing  shall  be  impossible.    (Matt.  17:20) 

POWER  IN  PRAYER 

The  other  of  the  two  ways  of  coming  into  communion  with  our 
Heavenly  Father  is  around  the  family  altar  in  daily  family  prayer  and 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

in  making  our  secret  prayerful  appeals.  There  is  power  in  prayer.  Roger 
W.  Babson  says  that  in  these  days  and  times  some  of  our  men  of  wealth, 
some  of  our  great  empire  builders,  ridicule  religion,  but  he  adds  further 
that  these  very  men  are  indebted  for  all  that  they  possess  to  the  family 
prayers  which  were  once  held  daily  in  the  homes  of  their  fathers. 

Dr.  Alexis  Carrel,  famous  scientific  investigator,  has  said  recently 
(Readers  Digest,  March,  1941)  that  prayer  is  the  most  powerful  form 
of  energy  that  man  can  generate,  that  its  effect  on  the  human  mind  and 
body  is  as  easily  and  certainly  detected  as  is  the  effect  of  the  secretion  of 
the  glands  that  exists  in  the  human  system.  Its  results  can  be  measured 
in  increased  physical  buoyancy,  in  greater  intellectual  vigor,  in  greater 
moral  stamina  and  in  a  deeper  understanding  of  the  realities  underlying 
human  relationships.  Prayer  is  the  beginning  of  the  journey  of  the  soul 
toward  the  realm  of  grace.  It  supplies  human  beings  with  a  steady  flow 
of  sustaining  power  in  their  daily  lives.  Prayer,  like  radium,  is  a  source 
of  luminous,  self-generating  energy.  "When  we  pray  we  link  ourselves 
with  the  inexhaustible  motive  power  that  spins  the  universe."  We  may 
pray  anywhere,  in  the  street,  the  office,  the  shop,  the  school,  as  well  as  in 
the  solitude  of  a  secret  chamber,  or  in  a  church.   In  conclusion  he  writes : 

Today  as  never  before  prayer  is  a  vital  necessity  in  the  lives  of 
men  and  of  nations.  The  lack  of  emphasis  of  the  religious  sense  has 
brought  the  world  to  the  edge  of  destruction.  Our  deepest  source  of 
power  and  perfection  has  been  left  miserably  undeveloped.  Prayer,  the 
basic  exercise  of  the  spirit,  must  be  actively  practiced  in  our  private 
lives.  The  neglected  soul  of  man  must  be  made  strong  enough  to 
assert  itself  once  more,  for  if  the  power  of  prayer  is  again  released 
and  used  in  the  lives  of  common  men  and  women,  if  the  spirit  declares 
its  aims  clearly  and  boldly,  there  is  yet  hope  that  our  prayers  for  a 
better  world  will  be  answered. 

THE  TWO  SOURCES  OF  SECURITY 

My  appeal,  therefore,  is  that  we  assemble  regularly  on  the  Sabbath 
day  in  our  various  Wards  and  there  partake  worthily  of  the  Sacrament 
of  the  Lord's  Supper,  and  that  daily  in  our  homes  around  our  family 
altars  as  well  as  in  secret  we  humbly  and  sincerely  appeal  to  our  Heavenly 
Father  that  that  peace,  for  which  Christian  people  everywhere  are  plead- 
ing, that  blessing  which  all  men  most  need  today,  may  by  the  power  of 
God  be  brought  to  all  mankind.  Then  our  lives  and  our  motives  will  be 
purified  and  our  faith  in  the  Almighty  will  wax  strong.  Being  thus  es- 
tablished in  the  confidence  and  fellowship  of  our  Heavenly  Father  there 
will  come  to  us  a  feeling  of  strength  and  of  silent,  satisfying  security,  of 
an  unselfish  determination  and  desire  to  serve  and  to  bless  those  with 
whom  we  mingle.   As  Paul  declared : 

Let  us  remember  the  words  of  the  Lord  Jesus  how  he  said,  It  is 
more  blessed  to  give  than  it  is  to  receive.    (Acts  20:35.) 

When  the  selfishness  of  mankind  vanishes,  peace  on  earth  will  come. 
The  way  to  peace  and  happiness  then  is  to  return  to  the  Almighty,  to 
cultivate  His  Spirit,  to  supplicate  Him,  and  to  plead  for  a  forgiveness  of 
our  sins  and  shortcomings.    Through  a  consistent  attendance  at  Sacra- 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


69 


ment  meetings,  if  we  partake  of  the  holy  Sacrament  with  clean  hands  and 
pure  hearts,  we  renew  our  covenants  with  the  Almighty  with  assurance 
that  those  who  do  so  acceptably  shall  have  the  most  precious  blessing 
bestowed  upon  man,  that  is  "His  Spirit  to  be  with  them." 

war's  consequences 

Now  to  the  second  division  of  my  subject.  What  will  come  after? 
When  this  great  war  ends  fatigue  and  famine,  bitterness  and  the  memory 
of  wrongs  inflicted,  and  of  outrages  suffered  will  make  impossible  a  good 
and  lasting  peace  unless  by  divine  power  those  who  prepare  the  terms 
have  in  their  hearts  the  spirit  of  the  Prince  of  Peace  and  can  proceed  as 
did  Lincoln,  "With  malice  toward  none  and  with  charity  for  all."  As 
long  as  a  desire  for  revenge  or  punishment  guides  those  who  prepare  the 
conditions  of  peace  rather  than  a  desire  to  create  conditions  of  confidence 
and  good  will,  wars  and  rumors  of  wars  will  scourge  the  earth.  Even 
in  our  own  beloved  land  of  liberty  it  seems  that  in  these  trying  times 
many  prefer  the  satisfaction  of  retaliation  rather  than  the  spirit  of  for- 
giveness and  peace  with  equal  consideration  for  all  people.  These  ap- 
parently are  unable  to  understand  that  great  fundamental  doctrine  that 
it  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  it  is  to  receive. 

Far-seeing  statesmen  and  economists  are  agreed  that  at  the  close  of 
this  war  a  depression  much  greater  than  those  which  have  followed  other 
wars  is  sure  to  come.  The  world  will  be  compelled  to  struggle  with  the 
financial,  economic  and  social  aftermath  of  the  present  furious  conflicts 
which  are  being  waged  on  many  battle  fronts. 

The  length  and  the  severity  of  a  war  determine  the  length  and  the 
severity  of  the  depression  which  follows  it.  The  greater  the  destruction, 
the  greater  the  depression.  Famine,  pestilence,  plagues,  diseases  and 
poverty  will  no  doubt  come  in  a  more  or  less  serious  degree  to  the  people 
of  all  nations  when  this  death  struggle  comes  to  its  close.  And  for  this 
reason  I  repeat  the  appeal  that  has  been  made  from  the  beginning  by  the 
leaders  of  the  Church  that  all  the  people  as  far  as  possible  get  out  of 
debt  and  keep  out  of  debt. 

PEACE  THROUGH  JUSTICE  AND  CHARITY 

Truly  in  these  days,  at  this  very  hour,  the  world's  greatest  need  is 
peacemakers.  And  I  repeat,  if  out  of  the  conflicts,  out  of  the  battles  which 
are  now  raging,  those  can  come  who  can  and  will  plan  a  lasting  peace, 
one  with  malice  toward  none  and  with  justice  and  charity  for  all,  these 
will  be,  they  must  be  now  and  forever  numbered  among  the  very  choicest, 
the  most  select  and  most  richly  blessed  of  all  the  children  of  God. 

In  conclusion,  I  appeal  again  to  you  to  do  these  two  things :  1.  At- 
tend Sacrament  meetings  faithfully;  2.  Participate  regularly  in  daily 
family  and  secret  prayers.  If  we  all  can  and  will  do  these  two  things, 
if  we  can  live  the  unselfish  Christian  life,  the  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ  will  burn  in  our  souls  and  we  will  walk  with  confidence  among 
our  fellowmen,  disseminating  the  spirit  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
which  is  the  spirit  of  peace  and  the  spirit  of  good  will. 


70 

Saturday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


The  Blackfoot  Stake  Choir  sang  an  anthem  "And  the  Glory  of  the 
Lord,"  {Messiah) — by  Handel. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  repeat :  Please  drive  carefully,  the  streets  are  very  slippery ;  and 
pedestrians  will  be  good  enough  to  walk  cautiously  and  carefully. 

We  would  like  particularly  to  say  a  word  of  commendation  to  the 
Blackfoot  Stake  Choir.  Some  of  the  members  of  this  Choir  have  traveled 
regularly  to  their  rehearsals  a  distance  of  fifty  miles,  and  they  have  never 
missed  a  rehearsal.  This  represents  what  the  Church  Music  Committee 
is  trying  to  do  in  ail  of  our  Stakes.  I  would  like  to  say  to  the  Utah  Valley 
people  and  the  Brigham  Young  University  that  they  must  look  to  their 
laurels  for  up  in  the  Snake  River  Valley  there  is  a  group  that  is  pressing 
very  hard  on  their  heels. 


Elder  Thomas  W.  Richards,  President  of  the  Malad  Stake,  pro- 
nounced the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Saturday  afternoon,  April  5. 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  convened  promptly  at  2  p.  m. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  moment  has  arrived  for  opening  this  the  fourth  session  of  this 
Conference.  Notwithstanding  we  have  a  mild  blizzard  outside,  this  house 
is  crowded  to  capacity.  President  Grant  is  resting  this  afternoon.  Presi- 
dent Clark  is  conducting  the  meeting. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  the  two  Counselors 
to  President  Grant,  the  eleven  Apostles,  all  of  the  First  Seven  Presidents 
of  Seventies,  and  all  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  Blackfoot  Stake  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session  of 
the  Conference. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  For  a  Prophet." 

Elder  M.  Ezra  Sorenson,  President  of  the  Bannock  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  sang  "Praise  the  Lord,  O  Jerusalem" — Maunder, 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


71 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  been  greatly  impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  by  the  im- 
portant testimony  given  by  President  Grant  yesterday  morning,  the  fine 
expression  that  he  gave  to  us  of  the  things  that  impressed  him  and  that 
have  influenced  him  greatly  during  his  life.  I  realize  that  the  work  he 
has  done  and  the  testimony  he  has  borne  to  us  are  a  source  of  guidance  to 
all  of  us,  and  a  realization  that  he  is  indeed  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  a 
prophet  of  God.  He  enjoys  the  power  and  keys  of  authority  that  were 
given  to  him  some  twenty-two  years  ago,  and  he  has  testified  to  us  in 
clearness  and  inspiration  with  regard  to  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged.  I  have  been  greatly  impressed  by  this  statement,  and 
not  only  in  regard  to  the  testimony  he  has  borne,  but  in  regard  to  his  life. 

President  Grant  at  eighty-four  years  of  age  has  accomplished  a  great 
deal  in  his  life.  At  twenty-four  years  of  age  he  was  appointed  President 
of  the  Tooele  Stake  of  Zion — in  his  youth  practically  he  received  that 
responsibility  and  carried  it  forward  successfully.  Shortly  after  that  he 
was  sustained  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  he  has  car- 
ried on  diligently  and  faithfully  in  that  position  from  that  time  to  this. 

KEYS  OF  AUTHORITY  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

Some  twenty-three  years  ago,  I  believe  it  was,  he  received  the  keys  of 
authority  of  the  Priesthood  to  preside  over  the  whole  Church  and  to  carry 
on  this  responsibility.  He  has  fulfilled  it.  He  has  been  loyal  and  faith- 
ful in  every  respect,  and  achieved  a  great  work.  Every  duty  and  respon- 
sibility given  him  has  been  ably  magnified.  He  has  been  constant  in  season 
and  out  of  season  and  lived  up  to  every  requirement.  Full  of  alertness 
and  initiative  in  the  responsibilities  that  have  come  to  him  he  has  fully 
measured  up  in  every  respect.  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  he  has  borne 
to  us.  I  am  sure  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  were  present  or  who 
listened  over  the  radio  have  been  greatly  impressed  thereby,  and  have 
realized  that  he  is  verily  a  servant  of  the  Lord  and  stands  at  the  head  of 
the  Church  upon  the  earth,  and  is  a  power  and  influence  to  all  who  are 
loyal  and  true  to  him  and  love  the  work  he  has  accomplished. 

I  believe  that  the  motto  that  President  Grant  has  used  extensively 
has  had  an  influence  on  his  life.    It  reads : 

That  which  we  persist  in  doing-  becomes  easy  to  do;  not  that  the 
nature  of  the  thing  has  changed,  but  that  our  power  to  do  has  increased. 

I  believe  it  expresses  very  effectively  the  diligence  and  the  persist- 
ence that  President  Grant  has  maintained.  He  has  accomplished  the 
work  he  has  been  called  to  do  fully  and  effectively,  and  there  is  no  one 
who  has  any  reason  to  feel  otherwise  than  that  he  has  fulfilled  in  every 
respect  in  his  life  his  great  responsibility.  I  am  sure  it  is  a  joy  to  every 
member  of  the  Church. 

FACTORS  AFFECTING  HUMAN  BEHAVIOR 

I  have  been  impressed  with  the  idea  and  feeling  that  there  are 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

certain  factors  that  affect  the  behavior  of  men  and  women  here  upon  the 
earth.  These  same  factors  affect  every  one  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  In 
the  first  place  we  are  influenced  by  our  appetites  or  carnal  desires,  and 
thereby  we  may  be  led  to  do  good,  or  we  may  be  led  to  do  evil ;  we  have 
the  choice ;  we  are  free  agents.  Every  human  soul  who  lives  upon  the 
earth  is  a  free  agent  to  himself  to  do  the  will  of  the  Lord  or  to  do  wrong, 
and  he  will  be  governed  and  will  be  judged  for  his  actions  here  in  mortal- 
ity and  will  have  to  give  an  accounting  of  his  actions  in  the  world  to 
come. 

EVERYONE  HAS  THE  RIGHT  OF  CHOICE 

We  are  told  by  the  Apostle  John  that  every  human  soul  will  be  called 
up  to  give  an  account  of  his  life  here  in  the  flesh.  The  books  or  records 
that  have  been  made  will  be  opened  and  we  will  be  held  responsible  for 
our  actions.  I  appreciate  the  fact  that  it  is  a  very  important 'thing  for 
every  individual  to  learn  the  difference  between  right  and  wrong,  and 
choose  the  right,  to  battle  for  truth,  and  righteousness.  We  shall  be 
blessed  if  we  stand  firmly  for  the  same.  On  the  other  hand  we  will  be 
punished  for  that  which  we  do  which  may  be  evil.  That  is  our  responsi- 
bility and  our  privilege ;  every  one  of  us  is  called  to  this  responsibility ; 
every  individual,  I  say.  We  are  eternal  beings  spiritually.  We  have 
received  through  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  the  opportunity  to  come  here 
upon  the  earth  in  mortality,  to  live  and  to  accomplish  our  mission;  and 
after  we  leave  here  we  will  go  into  the  spirit  world.  The  day  will  come 
when  we  will  be  resurrected  and  become  immortal  beings  and  will  have 
to  account  for  our  deeds.  We  will  receive  the  blessings  that  we  merit 
according  to  our  deeds  here  in  the  flesh  and  our  preparations  for  immortal- 
ity. 

I  realize  that  this  is  a  very  important  question,  a  very  important 
matter  in  our  lives,  and  we  can  be  led  and  guided  through  light  and 
truth  to  do  that  which  the  Lord  desires  of  us,  or  we  can  be  led  by  the  in- 
fluence of  evil,  the  influences  that  we  heard  about  this  morning,  the  in- 
fluences of  the  Adversary  who  seeks  to  mislead  mankind. 

The  Savior  said  to  His  disciples  in  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount: 
"Strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  is  the  way,  which  leadeth  unto  life,  and 
few  there  be  that  find  it."  Many  people  prefer  to  take  the  easier  way, 
the  way  that  brings  them  trouble  and  destruction.  It  is  the  Adversary 
who  endeavors  to  lead  men  away  to  destruction ;  that  is  the  broad  way,  the 
easy  way,  and  the  way  which  mankind  have  the  power,  the  right  to  accept 
if  they  so  choose,  and  which  the  Lord  endeavors  to  influence  them  against. 
He  wants  us  to  live  in  harmony  with  righteousness  and  truth.  That  is  a 
very  important  factor  in  our  lives,  the  way  we  live,  the  desires,  the  feel- 
ings and  the  habits  we  have,  because  we  have  the  power  to  do  as  we  choose, 
and  we  will  have  to  be  responsible  for  everything  we  do.  We  should 
strive  to  be  guided  in  righteousness,  that  we  might  be  able  to  discern  be- 
tween that  which  the  Lord  desires  and  that  which  is  influenced  by  the 
other  power,  which  is  contrary  to  truth  and  righteousness. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


73 


HUMAN  EMOTIONS  AND  REASON 

There  is  another  factor  by  which  we  are  affected,  and  that  is  the 
influence  of  our  emotion.  We  have  the  power  to  control  ourselves  largely 
in  this  respect  also,  and  yet  we  can  gain  a  great  deal  of  satisfaction 
through  proper  emotions  if  we  cultivate  them  and  live  for  them,  if  we 
do  the  right  thing.  There  are  emotions  that  are  of  a  very  elevating  nature 
and  there  are  others  that  are  of  a  character  that  lead  us  to  destruction  and 
to  downfall,  and  therein  also  we  have  a  responsibility.  There  is  another 
influence,  and  that  is  in  the  nature  of  reason  or  judgment  which  guides  us 
in  our  lives,  and  we  are  supposed  to  use  common  sense  and  judgment 
in  all  the  things  we  do ;  we  have  that  power.  Of  course  men  are  some- 
times influenced  by  the  other  influence,  the  emotions  and  desires,  and 
reason  does  not  govern  them  altogether,  but  that  is  a  very  important 
thing  for  them  to  cultivate. 

We  as  Latter-day  Saints  have  the  opportunity  of  doing  these  things 
and  we  have  the  privilege  and  responsibility  of  cultivating  the  attitude 
and  the  qualifications,  the  factor  of  reason  in  our  lives,  that  we  may  there- 
by be  judged  righteously  in  everything  that  concerns  us.  The  Lord  has 
given  us  an  understanding  of  these  things  and  how  to  control  them,  and 
to  be  influenced  thereby,  and  we  have  the  power  also,  if  we  live  for  it — 
every  man  has  the  power,  has  the  understanding,  and  should  be  taught 
principles  that  will  lead  us  to  understand  righteousness  and  the  purposes 
of  the  Lord. 

POWER  OF  THE  HOLY  SPIRIT 

We  have  particularly  that  responsibility  and  that  blessing  that  the 
Lord  has  given  to  every  one  who  has  received  the  Gospel  that  we  are 
enabled  to  grow  in  the  spirit  and  power  and  testimony  of  the  truth  and 
learn  to  know  the  difference  between  sound  reasoning  or  judgment,  and 
that  which  is  not  for  our  welfare ;  and  we  have  the  ability  also  to  judge 
and  discern  between  the  influence  and  emotions  which  will  lead  us  astray. 

And  so  the  Lord  desires  that  we  should  cultivate  the  influence  and 
power  of  His  Holy  Spirit,  and  if  we  do  this  we  shall  grow  in  the  spirit 
and  power  of  the  Gospel,  love  of  truth,  and  understanding  of  His  pur- 
poses, and  if  we  continually  maintain  that  attitude  we  shall  develop  in 
power  to  serve  the  Lord  as  He  desires  us. 

You  will  remember  that  when  the  Savior  was  upon  the  earth  He 
repeatedly  called  the  attention  of  His  Apostles  to  the  importance  of  keep- 
ing His  commandments.  He  said  to  them  time  and  again,  "If  ye  love 
me  keep  my  commandments."  Frequently  He  called  it  to  their  attention, 
showing  how  important  and  desirable  was  the  principle  He  had  given 
them,  and  every  other  human  soul  to  serve  Him,  keep  His  commandments 
and  do  His  will.  "Thereby,"  He  said,  "Ye  show  that  ye  love  me  if  ye 
keep  my  commandments." 

Such  an  example  as  the  divine  influence  of  the  Savior  on  mankind 
has  been  a  great  power  for  those  who  have  sought  to  do  His  will  and 
have  drawn  near  to  Him.  To  us  as  Latter-day  Saints  we  have  the  op- 
portunity and  privilege  of  living  up  to  this  principle  of  serving  the  Lord 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

and  doing  His  will  and  if  we  strive  to  do  that  continually  we  shall  grow 
in  influence  and  power  through  drawing  near  to  Him  and  seeking  to  serve 
the  Lord,  and  to  do  so  in  the  name  of  His  Beloved  Son.  Thereby  we 
may  all  grow  in  the  spirit  and  power  of  this  work.  That  is  a  responsi- 
bility that  rests  upon  all  of  us,  who  are  members  of  the  Church 
everywhere,  and  upon  our  children,  the  young  people,  that  thereby  every- 
one of  them  may  grow  in  the  love  of  the  truth,  the  love  of  the  Lord  and 
the  desire  to  do  His  will  and  keep  His  commandments. 

TESTIMONY  OF  THE  TRUTH 

I  testify  of  these  things  to  you  and  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you  and 
bless  us  all  in  our  desires  to  do  right  and  live  His  will.  I  testify  and 
declare  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  It  is  intended  for  the  welfare 
of  mankind,  for  their  eternal  salvation  and  exaltation.  I  testify  also 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  a  prophet  of  the  Lord.  He 
has  set  the  example  to  us  in  this  dispensation  of  the  blessings  which  fol- 
low the  observance  of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  which  he  received 
from  God.  That  same  spirit  and  that  same  influence  is  manifested  by  the 
brethren  who  preside  over  the  work  now,  and  all  of  those  who  have 
presided  over  the  Church  in  former  days.  I  testify  to  these  things  and 
pray  the  Lord  to  bless  us  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

There  are  three  reasons  recorded  in  the  scriptures  why  Satan  was  cast 
out  of  Heaven,  and  with  him  those  who  rebelled  against  God  and  followed 
after  Satan.  Those  three  reasons  were,  as  I  recall  them :  first,  that  they 
were  in  rebellion  against  God ;  second,  that  they  sought  to  arrogate  unto 
themselves  the  credit,  the  honor  and  the  glory  which  belong  to  God  alone ; 
and,  third,  that  Satan  sought  to  destroy  the  free  agency  of  man,  which 
God  has  given  to  every  man,  as  we  have  heard  here  from  the  brethren 
who  have  preceded  me. 

GOOD  AND  EVIL  CANNOT  BE  DONE  UNDER  COMPULSION 

It  is  impossible  for  any  man  to  commit  sin  under  compulsion,  and  it 
is  impossible  for  him  to  do  good  under  compulsion ;  that  is,  I  mean,  this  : 
there  is  no  evil  in  doing  wrong  under  compulsion,  neither  is  there  any 
virtue  in  doing  good  under  compulsion.  We  are  only  responsible  for  that 
which  we  do  willingly  in  the  exercise  of  our  free  agency.  God  will  hold 
us  responsible  for  all  that  we  do  of  our  own  volition  and  He  has  endowed 
us  with  certain  gifts  that  will  enable  us  to  distinguish  between  good  and 
evil. 

You  will  find  recorded  in  the  seventh  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Moroni 
wherein  we  are  told  in  the  sixteenth  paragraph,  that  "the  spirit  of  Christ 
is  given  to  every  man  that  he  might  know  good  from  evil,"  and  ever  since 
the  days  of  the  Garden  of  Eden  and  the  partaking  of  the  forbidden  fruit 
by  our  first  parents  the  eyes  of  mankind  have  been  opened  to  a  knowledge 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


75 


of  good  and  evil.  The  Lord  has  given  us  that  knowledge  by  bestowing 
upon  all  that  spirit  of  Christ  that  is  poured  out  upon  all  men,  and  we 
know  when  we  do  wrong.  No  man  can  ever  say  that  he  did  an  evil  thing 
because  he  had  to  do  it,  for  if  he  had  to  do  it  there  would  be  no  evil  in  it ; 
but  if  he  does  it  with  the  consent  of  his  own  mind,  then  and  then  only  can 
it  be  called  "committing  sin."  The  same  thing  will  apply  to  doing  good. 
They  are  good  deeds  only  when  they  are  done  willingly.  We  will  be 
judged  according  to  the  light  and  knowledge  which  God  has  given  to  us. 

Another  great  blessing  that  God  has  given  to  us  for  our  guidance  is 
that  every  one  who  has  received  the  truth  and  entered  into  covenant  with 
the  Lord  through  the  holy  waters  of  baptism  has  received  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  which  is  the  Spirit  of  Truth  that  will  lead  us  into  all  truth, 
that  our  minds  may  be  lit  up  thereby  and  our  understandings  enlarged. 

Compulsion  does  not  belong  to  the  theory  of  government  in  the 
Kingdom  of  God.  There  are  many  man-made  governments  where  they 
seek  to  control  the  actions  of  others,  even  in  their  religion  and  everything 
else.  All  this  is  contrary  to  the  mind  and  will  of  God.  He  desires  that 
every  man  shall  be  free  "to  choose  his  life,  and  what  he'll  be,  for  this 
eternal  truth  is  given,  that  God  will  force  no  man  to  heaven." 

So  you  see,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  Lord  has  not  left  us  without 
divine  guidance.  We  have  a  battle  to  fight;  Satan  was  cast  out  of 
Heaven  because  he  rebelled  against  God  and  sought  to  lead  away  and  did 
lead  away  many  of  God's  children,  even  one-third  of  the  hosts  of  Heaven. 

THE  SAVIOR'S  PLAN  FOR  MANKIND 

In  reply  to  the  question  which  God  propounded,  "Whom  shall  I 
send?"  (this  pertaining  to  the  sending  to  this  world  one  to  carry  out 
the  purposes  of  the  Almighty  Father)  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ, 
known  to  ancient  Israel  as  Jehovah  said : 

Here  am  I,  send  me.  .  .  .  Father  thy  will  be  done,  and  the  glory 
be  thine  forever. 

What  a  difference  from  the  attitude  of  Lucifer,  the  son  of  the  morn- 
ing, otherwise  called  Satan,  and  sometimes  called  the  devil,  more  fre- 
quently than  not !  What  a  difference  in  the  attitude  and  the  spirit !  Said 
Lucifer : 

Here  am  I,  send  me,  I  will  be  thy  Son  and  I  will  redeem  all  man- 
kind, that  one  soul  shall  not  be  lost;  and  surely  I  will  do  it,  wherefore, 
give  me  thine  honor. 

He  was  ambitious,  he  wanted  to  arrogate  to  himself  all  the  honor 
and  the  glory,  and  he  wanted  to  use  compulsion,  and  save  us  whether  we 
wanted  to  be  saved  or  not.  Force  will  never  convert  the  human  mind ; 
this  can  be  done  only  in  the  exercise  of  our  free  agency  and  not  other- 
wise. 

All  through  the  teachings  of  our  Savior  we  are  taught  the  wonder- 
ful lesson  of  doing  the  will  of  God.  The  Lord  taught  us  to  pray  to  our 
Heavenly  Father,  "Thy  Kingdom  come,  thy  will  be  done  in  earth  as  it 
is  in  Heaven."   When  that  day  comes  the  will  of  God  will  be  done,  but 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  5  Second  Day 

not  under  any  compulsion  whatever.  If  we  ever  arrive  in  Heaven  we 
will  find  that  we  have  so  adapted  ourselves  to  the  will  of  God  that  our 
minds  will  be  lit  up,  we  will  have  the  Spirit  of  God  which  reveals  to  us 
the  things  of  God,  and  we  will  know  the  will  of  God  and  act  in  accordance 
with  it,  or  we  will  never  get  there. 

OBEDIENCE  TO  THE  WILL  OF  GOD  REQUIRED  IN  ALL  THINGS 

And  so  I  say  this,  that  it  is  the  will  of  God  that  we  are  to  obey,  and 
we  have  the  means  of  ascertaining  and  learning  it  without  any  undue  in- 
fluence or  coercion  being  used  with  us.  "Thy  will  be  done."  The  order 
and  will  of  God — there  is  order  in  the  Kingdom  of  God ;  there  is  order  in 
Heaven;  in  this  whole  universe  there  is  order;  law  prevails  throughout 
the  universe.  There  is  an  equilibrium  in  all  this  universe  which  is  upheld 
and  sustained  by  the  will  and  power  of  God,  by  His  laws,  and  some- 
times we  refer  to  them  as  the  laws  of  nature.  Let  one  of  those  laws  be 
suspended  and  there  will  be  confusion  and  disaster.  Either  there  would 
be  violent  collisions  among  the  heavenly  bodies,  or  the  members  of  this 
sidereal  universe  would  fly  off  into  an  endless  space,  never  again  to  re- 
turn. There  is  order  everywhere  prevailing.  I  think  it  was  Aristotle  or 
one  of  the  great  philosophers  who  made  the  remark  that  order  was  the 
first  law  of  heaven.  I  heard  that  contradicted  the  first  time  by  President 
George  Q.  Cannon.  I  do  not  know  whether  it  was  original  with  him  or 
not,  but  this  is  what  he  said :  "No,  order  is  not  the  first  law  of  Heaven ; 
obedience  is  the  first  law  of  Heaven,  and  order  is  the  result."  That  is 
what  I  like,  that  coincides  with  my  view.  Obedience,  then,  of  which  we 
have  heard  so  much,  is  the  thing  that  will  set  us  in  order  and  will  set 
the  world  in  order.  The  universe  renders  obedience  to  the  will  of  God, 
obedience  to  the  law  of  Heaven,  obedience  to  the  Divine  powers  that 
preside  over  the  universe.  That  is  the  way  to  unify  ourselves  and  to  find 
access  to  God.   There  will  be  no  compulsion  in  it. 

The  order  as  we  find  it  in  the  universe  prevails  in  Heaven,  and  there- 
fore we  should  seek  to  know  what  the  order  and  will  of  God  are  in  all 
things  pertaining  to  our  lives  here  upon  the  earth,  and  we  will  have  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  guide  us  and  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  that  have 
been  given  to  men,  that  we  might  know  good  from  evil.  This  Spirit  per- 
vades the  universe,  and  it  was  by  this  Spirit  that  the  universe  was  made — 
the  Heavens  and  the  earth. 

In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God, 
and  the  Word  was  God. 

The  same  was  in  the  beginning  with  God. 

All  things  were  made  by  him;  and  without  him  was  not  anything 
made  that  was  made. 

In  him  was  life;  and  the  life  was  the  light  of  men.  (John  1:1-4.) 

That  is  the  true  light  which  lighteth  every  man  which  cometh  into 
the  world,  the  light  of  Christ.  "Let  us  walk  in  the  light  even  as  He  is 
in  the  light,"  and  we  are  told  we  shall  then  "have  fellowship  one  with 
another,  and  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ  will  cleanse  us  from  all  sin." 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


77 


THE  COVENANT  MADE  BY  GOD 

The  Gospel  provides  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  to  every  one  that 
will  render  obedience  to  it. 

The  Lord  makes  covenant  with  His  chosen  people.  The  people  of 
God  have  always  been  called  a  covenant  people.  We  first  entered  into 
covenant  with  God  in  that  primeval  day  before  the  world  was  made  when 
God  assembled  before  Him  His  sons  and  daughters  and  revealed  unto 
them  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation — the  glorious  plan  that  has  been  reveal- 
ed from  Heaven,  known  as  the  New  and  Everlasting  Covenant,  which 
means  the  same  thing  as  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness. 

Under  the  terms  of  this  covenant  God  requires  us  to  keep  His  com- 
mandments. As  it  is  set  forth  in  the  Book  of  Abraham,  and  translated 
by  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  through  the  gift  and  power  of  God :  "We 
will  go  down  and  make  an  earth  whereon  these  may  dwell,"  (thus  says 
the  Lord  referring  to  His  assembled  children)  "And  we  will  try  them 
herewith  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God 
shall  command  them.  They  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added  up- 
on *  *  *  *  *  and  they  who  keep  their  second  estate  shall  have  glory  added 
upon  their  heads  forever  and  ever." 

We  are  now  in  our  second  estate,  and  if  we  do  "all  things"  whatso- 
ever the  Lord  our  God  shall  command  us,  then  we  are  promised  in  the 
covenant  that  we  shall  have  glory  added  upon  our  heads  forever  and 
ever — a  never-ending  glory  that  shall  continue  to  come  to  us  through- 
out all  the  eternities  that  lie  before  us ;  a  never-ending  glory  and  life  in 
the  presence  of  God  and  His  sons  and  His  daughters,  being  heirs  of 
God,  even  joint  heirs  with  Jesus  Christ,  and  with  Him  inherit  all  things 
that  the  Father  hath.  In  other  words,  we  shall  be  glorified  and  enter  into 
the  Celestial  kingdom  of  God,  and  obtain  that  highest  and  greatest  gift 
of  God  unto  men — eternal  life  in  His  Celestial  kingdom — or  as  Elder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  told  us,  "eternal  lives." 

When  we  speak  of  the  New  and  Everlasting  Covenant  our  minds 
immediately  turn  to  the  marriage  covenant.  This  is  truly  a  very  impor- 
tant part  of  it,  but  it  is  only  a  part.  The  fulness  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  everlasting  covenant  (See  D.  re  C.  66:2.)  They  mean  one 
and  the  same  thing.  Obedience,  then,  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in 
its  fulness  and  primitive  purity  as  restored  to  the  earth  in  these  last  days 
through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  is  our  part  in 
the  Everlasting  Covenant,  and  if  we  render  this  obedience  by  doing  all 
things  which  the  Lord,  our  God,  has  commanded  us,  then  He  is  bound 
under  the  terms  of  the  Covenant  to  do  His  part  which  He  has  promised 
to  do,  which  is  adding  "glory  upon  our  heads  forever  and  ever."  This 
simply  means  a  never-ending  glory  that  shall  be  added  upon  our  heads 
throughout  all  the  eternities  that  are  to  come.  This  is  salvation,  as  con- 
templated under  the  New  and  Everlasting  Covenant,  for  which  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  made  the  supreme  sacrifice,  redeeming  us  from 
death  and  the  grave  (both  natural  death  of  the  body  and  spiritual  death 
which  was  banishment  from  the  presence  of  God.)  It  will  be  obvious 
therefore  that  when  salvation  comes  it  is  through  Him  and  Him  only. 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

We  cannot  save  ourselves  for  the  "greatest  gift  of  God  to  man  is  the 
gift  of  salvation,"  "for  by  grace  are  ye  saved  through  faith,  and  that 
not  of  yourselves,  it  is  the  gift  of  God." 

THE  SAVIOR'S  PART  IN  THE  PLAN  OF  SALVATION 

Again  let  me  emphasize  that  we  need  a  Savior.  After  the  transgres- 
sion in  the  Garden  of  Eden  the  Lord  said : 

Behold,  the  man  is  become  as  one  of  us  to  know  good  and  evil; 
and  now  lest  he  put  forth  his  hand  and  partake  also  of  the  tree  of  life, 
and  eat  and  live  forever  (in  his  sins),  therefore  I,  the  Lord  God  will 
send  him  forth  from  the  Garden  of  Eden. 

And  he  was  literally  driven  out  of  the  Garden  of  Eden.  But,  God 
did  not  forsake  him ;  nevertheless  he  was  banished  from  the  presence  of 
God,  a  condition  which  still  prevails.  We  no  longer  see  the  face  of  God ; 
we  do  not  talk  with  Him  face  to  face  as  did  Moses  and  others,  includ- 
ing Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  but  we  are  banished,  and  it  came  upon 
Adam  and  all  of  his  posterity.  That  is  one  phase  then  of  salvation,  to 
have  that  overcome.  The  other  phase  is  the  natural  death  of  the  body — 
"In  the  day  thou  eatest  thereof  thou  shalt  surely  die,"  and  when  that 
day  comes  and  we  shall  attain  to  the  allotted  age  of  man,  which  is  some- 
times called  seventy  years — it  may  go  to  a  hundred  or  even  beyond  that, 
I  myself  have  gone  nearly  seventeen  years  beyond  that  alloted  age — the 
time  will  come  when  we  will  shuffle  off  this  mortal  coil,  and  our  bodies 
will  be  laid  in  the  silent  tomb',  there  to  mingle  with  mother  earth  and  to 
return  to  that  mother  earth  from  whence  we  came,  but  our  spirits  shall 
go  back  to  God  in  His  paradise  if  we  are  faithful,  but  anyway  to  the  spirit 
world  to  await  that  glorious  day  when  the  trump  shall  sound  and  the 
dead  shall  arise  and  be  clothed  upon,  if  they  have  been  faithful,  with  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life,  but  with  immortality  in  any  event  in  the  due 
time  of  the  Lord. 

So  don't  you  see  we  are  wholly  and  totally  dependent  upon  the  Lord 
to  save  us  from  these  conditions ;  they  are  wholly  beyond  the  power  of 
any  man.  Which  one  of  us  can  bring  his  own  body  out  of  the  grave? 
How  can  we  be  brought  back  to  God  ?  How  can  these  things  be  ?  The 
Savior  answers  that  in  very  terse  terms.  Said  He  :  "I  am  the  Way,  the 
Truth  and  the  Life;  no  man  cometh  unto  the  Father  but  by  me." 
Neither  is  there  any  name  given  under  Heaven  save  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  whereby  man  must  be  saved. 

May  the  Lord  help  us,  therefore,  to  seek  the  counsels  that  come 
from  God  and  be  guided  by  the  Holy  Spirit  to  enter  into  covenant  with 
the  Lord  and  keep  ourselves  sweet  and  clean  and  unspotted  from  the  sins 
of  the  world.  Just  as  surely  as  the  day  follows  the  night  we  shall  be 
brought  back  to  God  to  inherit  all  these  wonderful  blessings  which  He 
has  promised  unto  them  that  love  Him  and  keep  His  commandments. 
May  God  grant  it,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


79 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 
and  President  of  the  New  England  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  traveled  a  long  way  to  attend  this 
Conference.  Boston  is  about  the  farthest  point  East  on  the  Atlantic  sea- 
board, and  is  a  beautiful  and  historic  city,  but  there  is  no  joy  like  the  joy 
of  coming  home. 

ASSOCIATE  MISSION  PRESIDENTS  PRAISED 

I  have  the  honor  of  being  associated  with  some  fifteen  other  Mission 
Presidents,  who  are  fine  and  capable  men.  They  are  fearless  and  have 
taken  hold  of  this  work  with  all  the  power  of  fine  manhood,  of  truth,  and 
everything  that  is  noble.  They  sit  here  before  us  in  this  congregation, 
unassuming,  God-fearing  men,  and  I  want  them  to  know  that  I  am  happy 
to  be  counted  with  them.  It  is  an  honor,  for  they  have  done  me  so  much 
good,  and  my  Mission  as  well,  for  naturally  we  call  the  Missions  "Our 
Missions." 

EARLY  MISSIONARY  WORK  IN  NEW  ENGLAND 

The  New  England  Mission  is  in  a  sense  the  oldest  Mission  of  the 
Church.  President  Brigham  Young  and  Heber  C.  Kimball  were  mission- 
aries a  hundred  years  ago  and  from  that  time  to  the  present  some  of  the 
greatest  men  of  the  Church  have  carried  the  Gospel  to  that  part  of  the 
United  States.  Vermont,  as  you  know,  is  the  "cradle"  of  Mormonism,  for 
in  that  State  was  born  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  President  Brigham 
Young,  and  many  others  who  have  been  the  stalwart  bearers  of  truth  in 
this  Church. 

We  have  a  band  of  very  fine  and  noble  men  and  women,  your  boys 
and  girls.  It  is  very  hard  on  them  the  first  winter  in  New  England,  as  the 
climate  is  very  severe,  but  they  face  their  difficulties  bravely.  Everything 
is  so  new,  and  we  have  only  a  few  Saints  comparatively.  We  have  about 
1,180  in  the  New  England  States  and  in  New  Brunswick  and  Nova  Scotia 
in  Canada.  This  entire  section  of  America  is  very  beautiful. 

MISSIONARIES  MAKING  HEADWAY 

In  New  England  the  people  as  never  before  are  respecting  this  lat- 
ter-day work.  Our  missionaries  are  allowed  to  speak  and  lecture  upon 
Mormonism  in  many  of  the  large  churches.  One  of  our  brethren  recently 
gave  one  of  the  most  intelligent  talks  on  the  history  of  the  restored 
Gospel  that  I  have  ever  heard,  and  he  did  it  fearlessly  and  with  courage, 
and  with  beautiful  English.  He  had  studied  his  work  and  he  bore  testi- 
mony of  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ. 

We  are  working  together,  and  the  nobility  of  our  work  is  equal  to  the 
demands  of  the  people  there.  You  must  remember  New  England  has 
many  colleges  and  universities.  There  are  twenty-seven  universities  and 
colleges  in  and  around  Boston  alone ;  and  therefore  we  come  in  contact 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

with  the  students  and  faculties.  Down  in  New  Haven  we  have  a  group  of 
fine  boys  in  Yale  University.  In  Cambridge,  we  have  eighty  Utah  stu- 
dents in  Harvard  College,  and  they  are  all  doing  fine  work.  Up  at 
Dartmouth  and  down  at  Brown  University  in  Providence,  and  over  in 
Smith  College,  not  to  mention  other  colleges,  we  have  Utah  students.  We 
try  to  keep  track  of  them  and  this  work  alone  is  very  important. 

We  teach  the  missionaries  to  study  certain  historical  facts  of  New 
England.  For  example,  December  20th  of  last  year  they  spoke  on  the 
mission  of  the  Pilgrim  fathers,  and  read  to  hundreds  of  people  the  thir- 
teenth chapter  of  I  Nephi,  which  foretells  the  settlement  of  the  shores  of 
New  England.  We  have  held  Priesthood  meetings  at  Plymouth  Rock  and 
at  the  little  town  of  Whitingham,  Vermont,  the  birthplace  of  President 
Brigham  Young.  Many  meetings  have  been  held  at  South  Royalton, 
where  the  Joseph  Smith  Memorial  farm  is  located.  President  Heber  C. 
Kimball  was  born  at  Sheldon,  Vermont,  and  President  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff's birthplace  was  at  Avon,  Connecticut.  Apostle  Willard  Richards 
was  of  New  England  lineage,  as  were  Apostles  Orson  Hyde,  Ezra  T. 
Benson,  Erastus  Snow,  and  Franklin  D.  Richards.  Many  other  histori- 
cal characters  of  the  Church  were  born  in  New  England.  The  Elders 
have  joy  in  visiting  the  old  homes  of  our  leaders,  and  some  day  the  people 
will  take  pride  that  so  many  of  the  founders  of  the  Latter-day  work  came 
out  of  New  England  and  were  of  Puritan  descent. 

ITEMS  OF  EARLY  HISTORY  IN  NEW  ENGLAND 

New  England  has  the  oldest  churches  in  the  United  States,  and  hun- 
dreds of  church  buildings.  We  respect  these  church  buildings,  for  when- 
ever anyone  with  a  clean  purpose  builds  a  church  in  honor  of  God,  good  is 
being  done.  The  Elders  of  our  Mission  have  cooperated  with  me  in 
making  a  study  of  the  history  of  the  religions  of  New  England  with  a 
view  of  being  able  to  converse  better  on  the  subject  of  the  Gospel.  A 
number  of  books  have  moulded  the  thought  of  the  people  since  the  rise 
and  growth  of  Puritanism,  and  as  a  result  of  our  study,  the  Elders  are 
able  to  draw  comparisons  in  an  intelligent  manner.  To  illustrate  just 
what  I  mean:  In  the  year  1S36,  John  Calvin  published  a  noted  work  on 
religion  that  moulded  the  thought  of  Protestantism  possibly  more  than 
any  other  work.  It  was  his  famous  Institutes  of  the  Christian  Religion. 
It  was  a  clear  exposition  of  Protestant  doctrine  and  a  forceful  refutation 
of  the  opposing  Catholic  views.  It  also  laid  down  the  laws  of  Church 
government,  later  known  by  the  name  of  Presbyterianism.  An  eminent 
modern  Catholic  scholar  has  called  Calvin's  book  "the  finest  work  of 
Reformation  literature."  In  it  Calvin  gave  his  program  for  reform 
in  religion,  and  when  the  book  was  translated  into  English,  it  moulded  the 
thought  of  the  Puritans  of  England.  Copies  of  it  were  brought  to  Amer- 
ica, and  in  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries  it  was  used  in  many 
of  the  colleges  where  religion  was  taught.  We  missionaries  have  made 
careful  study  of  the  religious  principles  laid  down  by  Calvin. 

Another  work  issued  from  the  press  about  the  same  time  as  the 
Institutes  was  the  work  of  Ignatius  Loyola  entitled  Spiritual  Exercises, 


BISHOP  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS 


81 


which  was  a  manual  of  religious  drill  designed  to  lead  the  sinner  to  con- 
centrate all  his  faculties  upon  the  task  of  realizing  his  sinfulness  and 
God's  abounding  grace. 

One  hundred  years  ago,  there  was  a  great  uncertainty  about  the 
Christian  faith,  and  of  later  years  that  uncertainty  has  grown  so  that 
to-day  thousands,  yes,  I  might  say  millions  of  the  youth  of  America  have 
little  or  no  church  allegiance,  and  are  without  foundation  of  religious 
home  life  or  knowledge  of  the  Bible.  Even  among  those  who  call  them- 
selves Christian,  there  is  an  uncertainty  as  to  what  to  believe.  The  deep 
discontent  with  the  achievements  of  Christianity  itself  in  dealing  with 
social,  economic,  and  international  relations  is  weakening  the  sense  of 
assurance  of  Christianity's  value  to  the  world. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  OWN  STORY  AND  ARTICLES  OF  FAITH  OF  GREAT  WORTH 

There  are  two  documents  that  our  missionaries  are  coming  to  know, 
documents  that  the  world  will  have  to  reckon  with.  They  are  Joseph 
Smith's  Own  Story  and  the  Articles  of  Faith.  Had  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  never  issued  anything  else  but  his  own  story  and  the  Articles  of 
Faith,  his  work  would  in  time  have  revolutionized  religious  thought.  They 
refute  the  tragic  mistake  of  the  Calvin  and  Loyola  documents,  for  they 
announce  to  the  world  the  large  fundamentals  on  which  the  restored 
Gospel  is  based.  In  the  Prophet's  writings  you  never  find  any  pretense 
or  bombast,  but  everything  he  writes  is  simple  and  direct.  The  reader  is 
always  impressed  with  his  truthfulness  and  honesty.  We  are  using  these 
two  documents  with  fine  success  in  our  mission. 

We  are  feeling  the  effects  of  the  war  in  New  England.  Factories 
have  been  re-opened  and  thousands  of  men  and  women  have  found  work. 
People  differ  on  the  policies  of  the  administration  at  Washington.  One 
thing  I  hope  and  that  is  that  our  country  may  keep  out  of  this  war  and 
free  from  the  terrible  hatreds  of  the  world.  May  we  place  our  hands  in 
His  hand  and  go  into  the  future  with  larger  hopes  and  greater  faith  in 
His  holy  laws,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang  "Come  Unto  Christ" — N.  Lorenzo  Mitchell. 

BISHOP  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

Considerable  has  been  said  at  this  Conference  concerning  the  value 
of  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel.  Some  years  ago  I  had  a  discussion  with 
an  associate  of  mine  in  the  Church,  an  educator,  who  said  he  believed 
the  day  had  come  when  we  would  have  to  appeal  to  the  young  people  of 
the  Church  through  reason  rather  than  through  that  which  we  custom- 
arily call  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel.  I  answered  that  if  we  had  reached 
that  stage,  then  I  feared  for  the  future  of  the  Church,  as  all  that  we  had 
accomplished  as  a  people  had  been  because  of  the  testimonies  that  the 
Lord  had  given  unto  us. 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 


A  TESTIMONY  BRINGS  WITH  IT  WILLINGNESS  TO  SACRIFICE 

I  am  sure  we  shall  never  forget  the  testimony  we  listened  to  yes- 
terday from  President  Grant.  I  recall  having  been  in  this  building 
as  a  boy  and  having  heard  President  Woodruff's  testimony  of  how  the 
Lord  had  guided  and  inspired  him  all  his  life.  I  am  not  sure  but  what 
it  was  the  last  address  he  delivered  here,  and  that  testimony  has  always 
remained  with  me.  When  I  think  of  President  Grant's  life  and  all  he 
has  accomplished,  of  his  beautiful  soul,  his  inspiration,  and  the  sacrifices 
he  has  made  in  order  to  answer  the  calls  that  have  been  made  of  him 
in  this  great  Church,  I  realize  what  his  testimony  has  done  for  him. 

Many  of  us  remember  having  heard  President  Ivins  from  this 
stand  tell  how  many  times  he  had  sold  all  he  had  and  burned  his  bridges 
behind  him  to  answer  the  call  of  the  brethren  to  serve  in  some  other 
part  of  the  Church.  Those  of  us  who  have  labored  in  the  mission  field 
know  how  many  of  the  Saints  have  forsaken  all  they  had  in  this  world 
in  order  that  they  might  be  obedient  to  the  testimonies  the  Lord  had 
planted  in  their  hearts. 

President  Clark  said  in  his  address  that  in  events  that  are  yet 
to  come  we  would  find  our  testimonies  of  the  Gospel  our  greatest  solace. 
I  feel  as  we  are  sending  our  boys  at  the  present  time  into  the  service  of 
their  country  if  we  can  send  them  with  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  in 
their  hearts,  that  it  will  give  them  power  to  live  their  lives  sweet  and 
clean  before  God  and  all  men,  as  they  have  been  taught  in  their  Latter- 
day  Saint  homes. 

The  Savior  of  the  world  indicated  that  if  we  would  be  His  disciples 
we  must  be  willing  to  forsake  all  that  we  have  in  this  world,  even  to 
fathers  and  mothers,  lands  and  herds,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  I 
do  not  believe  men  and  women  will  forsake  all  they  have  because  of 
any  reasoning  power  they  possess.  They  will  do  it  when  their  souls  are 
touched  by  the  inspiration  and  power  of  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God, 
which  is  the  testimony  of  the  truth,  and  then  it  is  that  men  can  love 
God  more  than  they  love  anything  else  in  this  world,  and  hence  forsake 
all  because  of  their  love  of  Him. 

I  wish  we  could  send  our  boys  into  the  service  of  their  country  with 
the  faith  and  testimony  the  two  thousand  Lamanite  boys  had  in  the  time 
of  Helaman  of  old  when  they  went  forth  to  battle  and  came  back  every 
man  because  of  his  faith. 

THE  PROMISES  OF  THE  LORD  SURE  OF  FULFILMENT 

We  have  great  promises  resting  upon  us  as  a  people  and  as  indi- 
viduals through  obeying  and  keeping  the  commandments  of  God.  Ref- 
erence has  been  made  to  the  promise  of  the  Lord  through  observance 
of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  not  only  that  we  should  run  and  not  be 
weary,  walk  and  not  faint,  and  that  we  should  receive  hidden  treasures 
of  knowledge,  but  the  destroying  angel  should  pass  by  us  and  not  slay 
us  even  as  the  children  of  Israel. 

It  has  been  said  that  man's  extremities  are  God's  opportunities. 
We  have  all  known  that  in  our  day  should  come  the  judgments  of  God, 


BISHOP  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS 


83 


the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord,  when  all  the  proud,  yea,  all  who 
do  wickedly,  should  be  as  stubble,  and  that  day  should  burn  them  up  that 
it  should  leave  them  neither  root  nor  branch.  We  have  reason,  if  we  have 
faith  in  God  and  keep  His  commandments,  to  believe  that  the  destroying 
angel  might  pass  us  by  as  a  people,  and  individually,  and  not  slay  us,  and 
that  we  might  stand  as  a  light  and  an  ensign  to  the  world,  and  an  evi- 
dence that  God  does  not  forget  His  promises.  I  hope  every  one  of  us 
believes  in  these  promises  the  Lord  has  made  to  us. 

A  PATRIARCHAL  BLESSING  AND  ITS  FULFILMENT 

Two  weeks  ago  while  I  was  visiting  in  Arizona  a  counselor  to  a 
Stake  President  told  me  of  an  experience  he  had  which  typifies  many 
similar  experiences  of  the  members  of  this  Church.  He  said  that  during 
the  World  War  he  was  drafted.  He  was  a  young  man  and  did  not  want 
to  go  to  war ;  he  felt  if  he  ever  went  into  action  he  would  never  return 
alive.  So  he  went  to  the  Patriarch,  (and  I  met  that  Patriarch  on  the 
same  trip)  and  the  Patriarch  came  in  from  his  field  and  said  to  this 
good  brotber:  "You  sit  down  at  the  table  and  write  as  I  dictate."  He 
laid  his  hands  upon  the  head  of  this  young  man  and  pronounced  a 
blessing  upon  him,  and  I  took  the  time  to  write  it  down  as  he  gave  it  to 
me.  I  would  like  to  read  a  few  words  from  that  blessing  here  today : 

Inasmuch  as  ye  have  been  called  to  go  to  the  defense  of  your 
country,  I  promise  you  if  you  will  be  humble  and  faithful  and  prayerful, 
that  if  your  life  is  ever  brought  into  danger,  the  way  will  be  opened  for 
your  escape,  and  you  will  yet  be  given  in  marriage  and  have  sons  and 
daughters  of  good  repute  and  be  the  means  of  doing  much  missionary 
work  in  the  world. 

You  see  all  this  was  conditioned  upon  his  being  faithful  and  prayer- 
ful and  humble.  It  is  a  grand  and  glorious  thing  to  bind  the  God  of 
Israel  to  us  through  obeying  and  keeping  His  commandments.  You  will 
remember  that  He  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph : 

I,  the  Lord  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say,  but  when  ye  do  not 
what  I  say,  ye  have  no  promise. 

This  man  had  a  promise  from  the  Lord  that  was  worth  living  for. 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  rather  have  the 
promise  of  God  resting  upon  me  than  that  of  any  mortal  man,  just 
as  this  brother  who  went  forth  to  battle  for  his  country.  Within  ninety 
days  after  he  received  his  patriarchal  blessing  he  was  going  over  the 
top  in  France,  and  in  his  company  were  250  men  to  which  were  added 
thirty  replacements.  On  the  day  that  the  Armistice  was  signed,  at 
10  o'clock  in  the  morning,  there  were  eighty  men  left  out  of  the  280, 
and  they  were  told  they  should  cease  firing.  The  men  gathered  around, 
three  of  them  in  one  hole,  including  this  brother,  of  whom  I  speak.  Two 
hundred  yards  away  he  saw  the  army  kitchen,  and  he  invited  his 
companions  to  go  with  him  to  get  something  to  eat.  They  had  had  no 
supper  or  breakfast  and  were  sure  they  would  get  nothing  if  they  went, 
so  he  went  alone.  Just  as  he  was  being  handed  a  stack  of  hot  cakes,  a 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  5  Second  Day 

bomb  fell  in  the  midst  of  the  little  company  of  eighty  he  had  left  behind 
and  thirty  of  them  were  killed  and  fifty  were  left.  When  he  returned, 
there  were  the  two  men  that  were  in  the  hole  with  him,  with  the  tops 
of  their  heads  blown  off.   The  Patriarch  had  said : 

If  your  life  is  ever  brought  into  danger,  the  way  will  be  opened 
for  your  escape  and  you  will  yet  be  given  in  marriage  and  have  sons 
and  daughters  of  good  repute. 

He  now  has  six  children,  one  in  the  mission  field. 

THE  SAINTS  STANDING  IN  HOLY  PLACES 

Now  the  Lord  made  also  this  statement  regarding  the  judgments 
that  are  to  come  in  these  latter  days : 

But  my  disciples  shall  stand  in  holy  places,  and  shall  not  be 
moved;  but  among  the  wicked,  men  shall  lift  up  their  voices  and 
curse  God  and  die. 

I  do  not  know  what  you  think  about  this  promise.  So  far  as  I  am 
concerned  I  think  the  Lord  did  not  mean  that  we  should  stand  on  this 
Temple  Block  or  back  in  Independence ;  I  think  He  meant  that  His  chil- 
dren should  live  such  lives  that  wherever  they  stand  the  ground  upon 
which  they  stand  should  be  holy  and  sanctified  because  of  their  presence. 

THE  ELEMENTS  REBUKED  BY  FAITH 

You  will  recall  that  in  the  early  days  of  the  gathering  of  the  Saints 
it  was  considered  as  good  as  an  insurance  policy  when  a  company  of 
Latter-day  Saints  embarked  on  a  vessel  crossing  the  Atlantic.  I  recall 
reading  in  my  grandfather's  diary  of  a  time  when  the  boat  upon  which 
he  was  sailing  was  in  great  jeopardy,  so  much  so  that  the  captain  of 
the  boat  came  to  him  and  pleaded  with  him  to  intercede  with  the  Lord 
in  behalf  of  the  boat  and  her  passengers  ;  and  Grandfather,  remembering 
that  he  had  been  promised  that  he  should  have  power  over  the  elements, 
walked  out  on  the  deck  of  the  boat  and  raised  his  hands  to  high  heaven 
and  rebuked  the  sea  and  the  waves,  and  they  were  immediately  calmed, 
and  the  appreciation  of  the  captain  of  the  boat  was  so  great  that  he 
offered  him  the  use  of  his  private  quarters  during  the  balance  of  the 
journey. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  believe  that  in  the  experiences  that 
are  ahead  of  us  through  the  judgments  that  are  to  befall  the  nations, 
God  will  stand  by  our  side,  and  by  the  side  of  our  boys  even  though 
they  go  forth  to  battle^  if  they  take  with  them  a  testimony  of  the  truth 
and  the  kind  of  faith  they  ought  to  have  in  the  living  God  and  in  this 
great  latter  day  work. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


85 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  teachings  of  Jesus,  with  the  testimonies  of  the  prophets  con- 
cerning Him  and  concerning  His  death  and  resurrection,  constitute  the 
Gospel  message.  That  is  a  universal  message,  not  limited  to  any  time  nor 
to  any  people,  but  applicable  to  all  peoples  of  all  times.  It  purports  to  lay 
down  correct  principles  of  living  life  in  mortality,  upon  which  in  turn 
depends  man's  condition  of  living  in  immortality.  In  short,  it  becomes  the 
law  of  life  valid  for  time  and  for  eternity.  In  that  view  it  must  be 
regarded  as  the  embodiment  of  absolute  human  and  spiritual  values,  not 
subject  to  alteration  with  the  aberrations  of  changing  times,  nor  to 
variation  with  the  vagrant  shiftings  of  prevailing  opinion. 

Those  courses  of  behavior  which  harmonize  with  and  conform  to 
absolute  spiritual  values  must  be  eternally  right  just  as  their  opposites 
must  be  eternally  wrong.  Between  the  two  there  is  undying  conflict. 
They  cannot  accommodate  themselves  one  to  the  other.  If  it  were  at- 
tempted to  make  adjustments  between  them  by  having  each  yield  some- 
thing to  the  other  you  might  succeed  in  tempering  the  wrong  but  what 
you  had  left  would  not  be  the  right.  It  could  at  best  be  right  debased  by 
an  admixture  of  wrong,  a  counterfeit. 

FUNDAMENTALS  MUST  REMAIN  UNALTERED 

The  Church  as  the  teacher  and  interpreter  of  the  Gospel  message 
cannot  countenance  any  dilution.  There  may  be  new  techniques  of  ex- 
position, improved  approaches,  expanding  understanding  of  interpreta- 
tion and  application  and  even  a  weeding  out  of  extraneous  accretions 
which  have  fastened  themselves  upon  the  basic  principles,  but  in  the 
fundamentals  of  the  message  itself  there  can  be  no  alterations.  Wherever 
the  majority  opinion  may  for  the  moment  lie,  or  however  the  conflict  may 
swirl  and  lash  about  it  the  eternal  right  must  still  stand  unshaken  and 
unmoved  as  the  fixed  base  to  which  men  may  with  assurance  and  safety 
anchor  their  lives.  That  which  is  right  does  not  become  wrong  merely 
because  it  may  be  deserted  by  the  majority,  neither  does  that  which  is 
wrong  today  become  right  tomorrow  by  the  chance  circumstance  that  it 
has  won  the  approval  or  been  adopted  by  overwhelmingly  predominant 
numbers.  Principles  cannot  be  changed  by  nor  accommodate  themselves 
to  the  vagaries  of  popular  sentiment. 

TODAY'S  TEST  OF  GOSPEL  MESSAGE 

If,  as  I  have  already  said,  the  Gospel  message  has,  as  in  the  very 
nature  of  the  case  it  must  have,  a  universality  of  application,  without 
limit  as  to  time  or  locality  or  people,  then  it  must  have  in  it  a  specific 
cure  for  the  ills  of  every  age.  In  all  circumstances,  in  every  time  we 
should,  if  it  fills  the  requirement  of  its  claim,  be  able  to  turn  to  it  and  find 
a  direction  suited  to  the  needs  of  the  hour.  For  it  is  not  divorced  from 
life  but  on  the  contrary  is  concerned  solely  with  the  lives  of  men  and  so 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

must  instruct  and  fortify  them  for  life's  requirements.  Let  us  consider 
whether  it  meets  that  test  as  related  to  the  conditions  of  today. 

The  mischief  against  which  there  is  presently  the  most  insistent 
complaint  is  the  reign  of  violence  with  its  train  of  accompanying  evils. 
This  grows  out  of  the  arrogance  and  egotism  of  rulers  and  leaders  who 
seek  to  establish  their  supremacy  at  whatever  cost,  and  without  regard  to 
consequences  to  humanity  at  large  or  to  nations  or  individuals  in  particu- 
lar.   The  Gospel  message  on  the  contrary  admonishes  men  to  humility. 

Whosoever  therefore  shall  humble  himself  as  this  little  child,  the 
same  is  greatest  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

But  when  thou  art  bidden,  go  and  sit  down  in  the  lowest  room; 
that  when  he  that  bade  thee  cometh,  he  may  say  unto  thee,  Friend, 
go  up  higher:  then  shalt  thou  have  worship  in  the  presence  of  them 
that  sit  at  meat  with  thee. 

For  whosoever  exalteth  himself  shall  be  abased;  and  he  that 
humbleth  himself  shall  be  exalted. 

But  he  that  is  greatest  among  you,  shall  be  your  servant. 


HUMILITY  WOULD  WIPE  OUT  VIOLENCE 

Let  these  sayings  characterize  the  desires  of  men  and  oppression 
would  vanish  away.  There  is  no  nation  today  whose  leaders  would  not  be 
immeasurably  benefitted  by  a  lesson  in  humility. 

One  of  the  results  of  a  reign  of  violence  is  the  denial  of  justice,  but 
justice  is  a  cardinal  part  of  the  Gospel  law. 

What  doth  the  Lord  require  of  thee,  but  to  do  justly,  and  to  love 
mercy,  and  to  walk  humbly  with  thy  God. 

Therefore  all  things  whatsoever  ye  would  that  men  should  do  to 
you,  do  ye  even  so  to  them:  for  this  is  the  law  and  the  prophets. 

In  any  land  where  that  law  prevailed  there  could  never  be  the  plun- 
dering, the  robbing,  the  despoiling  and  the  murdering  that  invariably 
accompany  the  rule  of  force.  I  have  spent  a  large  part  of  my  mature  life 
in  dealing  with  and  trying  to  adjust  people's  disputes.  I  have  learned  that 
there  would  be  very  little  trouble  between  men  in  this  world  if  only  every 
one  wanted  to  do  about  what  is  right — to  be  fair  and  just.  The  trouble 
grows  out  of  the  unjust  advantage  taken  of  situations  which  throw 
unfair  opportunities  into  the  hands  of  those  who  are  willing  to  exploit 
them.  The  discouraging  part  about  it  lies  in  the  difficulty  of  getting 
reciprocal  willingness  among  disputants  to  yield  to  the  principle  of  fair- 
ness. As  one  may  be  disposed  to  yield  the  other  increases  already  unjust 
demands.  But  that  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  existence  of  the  principle 
about  which  we  are  just  now  inquiring.  It  only  signifies  rejection  of  the 
message. 

WAR  NEVER  ENDS  WAR 

Another  evil  consequence  of  the  rule  of  force  is  that  it  begets  re- 
prisals, which  lead  to  interminable  conflicts.  We  are  all  familiar  with  the 
feuds  of  families  and  clans  and  the  wars  of  tongs  carrying  down  through 
long  generations.  The  victim  of  a  wrong  suffered  or  a  grievance  borne 
waits  the  day  of  revenge  and  then  takes  it  with  interest  compounded.  The 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


87 


new  sufferer  in  turn  retaliates  when  a  change  of  fortune  favors  him 
and  so  the  mischief  endlessly  spirals. 

"Vengeance  is  mine,  saith  the  Lord."  Its  exercise  cannot  safely  be 
left  to  mortals.  In  nothing  is  the  futility  of  war  more  surely  revealed 
than  in  the  inevitable  consequence  of  reprisals.  The  victor  despoils  the 
vanquished.  The  latter  with  an  undimmed  memory  waits  the  day  of 
retribution  and  when  the  time  of  reckoning  comes  takes  back  what  was 
before  lost  with  something  more  besides,  thus  sowing  the  seed  of  a  future 
war.  Seemingly  the  memory  of  nations  is  long;  they  never  forget  and 
war  never  ends  war. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  REPRISAL 

We  see  the  same  vicious  evil  at  work  in  all  the  contested  relations 
of  men.  We  may  take  an  illustration  from  current  happenings.  Laboring 
men,  by  which  we  mean  those  who  toil  with  their  hands  in  the  service  of 
others,  have  complained  that  they  have  been  unfairly  treated.  I  have  not 
any  doubt  that  their  complaint  is  a  just  one.  They  have  striven  for  cor- 
rection. Through  unionization  and  a  combination  of  circumstances  they 
have  possessed  themselves  of  vast  powers.  Their  direction  unfortunately 
has  fallen  far  to.o  largely  into  the  hands  of  unscrupulous  exploiters  and 
the  spirit  of  reprisal  is  set  in  operation.  They  now  in  many  ways  seek 
to  punish  those  against  whom  they  have  nursed  their  grievances.  These 
offer  resistance  and  useless  quarrels  grow. 

The  simple  law  is  that  a  wrong  is  never  righted  by  the  commission 
of  another  wrong.  The  expressive  common  phrase  is  "Two  wrongs  never 
make  a  right."  Those  who  have  so  bitterly  inveighed  against  injustice 
now  deny  their  fellow  workmen  who  do  not  wish  to  join  with  them  the 
right  peaceably  by  their  honest  toil  to  earn  their  daily  bread.  Rival  unions 
quarrel  among  themselves  and  in  promotion  of  their  feuds  stop  work  to 
the  irreparable  loss  of  non-contending  parties  and  the  public  at  large.  By 
violence  property  is  destroyed,  men  maimed  and  murdered  and  anarchy 
supplants  the  rule  of  law  and  order. 

DEFENSE  PREPARATIONS  DELAYED  THROUGH  GREED 

We  read  daily  reminders  that  a  national  peril  hangs  over  us,  which 
can  be  averted  only  by  straining  every  productive  power  we  have  while  at 
the  same  time  plants  are  shut  down  and  men  forced  to  idleness  as  the 
alleged  danger  creeps  steadily  upon  us.  Boys  by  the  thousands  have  been 
taken  from  their  employment  to  prepare  themselves  for  the  fighting 
service  where  they  receive  twenty-one  dollars  a  month.  No  one  knows 
how  soon  they  may  be  in  armed  battle,  but  the  implements  of  war  they 
shall  need  are  not  being  provided  because  those  who  remain  undisturbed 
in  their  employment,  and  who  are  already  drawing  from  two  to  three 
times  as  much  in  a  week  as  the  soldier  gets  in  a  month,  strike  for  higher 
pay  and  as  a  means  of  enforcing  their  demands  not  only  refuse  to  work 
themselves  but  by  violence  prevent  others  who  are  willing  to  work  from 
doing  so.  If  the  soldier  boys  go  into  war  unequipped  somebody  will  be 
answerable. 


88 

Saturday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


THE  WAY  TO  INDUSTRIAL  PEACE 

And  how  useless  it  all  is.  Instead  of  reprisals  or  vengeance  the 
Gospel  message  teaches  forgiveness  and  peace. 

Let  not  the  sun  go  down  upon  thy  wrath. 

But  I  say  unto  you,  Love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse 
you,  do  good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which  despite- 
fully  use  you,  and  persecute  you. 

For  if  ye  forgive  men  their  trespasses,  your  heavenly  Father  will 
also  forgive  you. 

But  if  ye  forgive  not  men  their  trespasses,  neither  will  your  Father 
forgive  your  trespasses. 

In  these  principles  of  the  Gospel  message  lies  the  way  to  industrial 
peace.  I  appeal  to  the  laboring  men  to  forego  the  methods  of  force  and 
vengeance  for  they  will  never  bring  you  peace  of  mind,  contentment  of 
spirit  nor  the  rewards  you  seek.  I  think  I  am  in  a  position  from  ex- 
perience and  observation  to  understand  your  aspirations.  I  have  a  deep 
sympathy  with  your  desire  to  improve  your  conditions.  It  is  a  laudable 
ambition  for  every  one.  But  vituperation  and  violence  and  hatred  and 
reprisal  will  bring  you  in  the  end  only  disillusionment,  disappointed  hopes 
and  the  bitterness  of  remorse.  The  peaceful  way  of  counsel  and  persua- 
sion and  a  willingness  to  show  justice  and  observe  the  right  are  the  ways 
that  will  win.  I  make  the  same  appeal  to  the  industrialist,  to  the  man  of 
agriculture  and  to  the  whole  race. 

PEACE  IS  DRIVEN  FROM  OUR  BORDERS 

This  goodly  land  of  ours,  the  boasted  refuge  of  the  oppressed  and 
the  guarantor  of  freedom,  is  seething  with  unrest.  Strife,  class  rancors, 
uncertainty,  hatreds,  greed,  deception,  demagoguery  have  driven  peace 
from  our  borders.  The  simple  truth  is  that  the  interests  of  all  classes  are 
inseparably  bound  up  together.  There  is  no  legitimate  basis  for  antagon- 
isms between  industrialists  and  laborers  or  between  agriculturists  and 
either  of  the  others.  They  are  kept  apart  by  distrust,  suspicion  and  a 
reciprocal  lack  of  faith  and  confidence.  Each  is  essential  to  the  other. 
Neither  can  prosper  alone,  but  they  are  set  in  conflict  by  stupid  name 
calling,  epithet  hurling,  and  intemperate  denunciations.  These  proce- 
dures have  always  failed.  The  healing  for  wounds  is  not  more  wounds 
but  a  soothing  balm. 

The  final  resort  of  a  nation  which  seeks  to  impose  its  unbridled  will 
upon  others  is  war.  War  is  always  evil.  It  has  always  been  so  and  never 
can  be  anything  else. 

WARS  SETTLE  NOTHING 

If  you  read  your  Hebrew  scriptures  you  will  see  that  the  destructions 
which  befell  the  people  were  heralded  by  wars  and  slaughters.  War  was 
the  scourge  by  which  the  land  was  devastated  as  told  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon  story.  And  when  Jesus  was  describing  to  His  disciples  the 
sorrows  and  tribulations  which  were  to  be  so  terrible  that  except  they 
should  be  cut  short  there  should  no  flesh  be  saved,  prominent  among  the 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  BROADBENT 


89 


initiating  terrors  were  wars — nation  rising  against  nation  and  kingdom 
against  kingdom. 

A  war  of  defense  may  be  justifiable.  It  may  be  the  only  means  of 
saving  from  utter  extinction  those  institutions  and  sanctions  through 
which  the  ways  of  peace  by  conversion  to  a  better  way  may  be  imple- 
mented. But  so  far  as  any  lasting  enduring  results  are  concerned  wars 
themselves  settle  nothing.  It  is  their  history  that  the  settlements  imposed 
at  the  close  of  one  contain  the  seeds  of  another  to  follow. 

But  I  need  not  pursue  the  point.  The  thesis  I  laid  down  at  the 
beginning,  namely,  that  the  Gospel  message  is  universal  and  has  in  it, 
all  the  necessary  curative  agents  for  the  ills  of  the  day,  is  clearly  demon- 
strable. Your  own  reflection  will  carry  you  far  beyond  any  place  to  which 
in  the  limits  of  my  time  I  have  been  able  to  take  you. 

GOSPEL  MESSAGE  MUST  BE  TAUGHT 

Let  me  in  closing  refer  again  to  the  second  phase  of  my  theme, 
namely,  that  in  the  eternal  conflict  between  right  and  wrong  there  can  be 
no  compromise.  The  Gospel  message  cannot  change  its  principles  to 
accommodate  itself  to  the  caprice  of  the  hour.  Among  the  great  un- 
changeables  are  the  truth  that  God  lives ;  that  Jesus  Christ  is  His  Son, 
the  Messiah,  the  Savior  of  the  world ;  that  He  died,  was  buried  and  was 
raised  from  the  dead  ;  that  man  is  a  child  of  God,  destined  to  immortality ; 
that  he  is  therefore  a  sacred  being  and  that  it  is  unalterably  wrong  to 
enslave  him  or  to  coerce  the  human  spirit ;  that  there  is  a  moral  law  by 
which  man  must,  through  disciplined  self-control,  govern  himself  which 
finds  its  faithful  expression  in  the  Ten  Commandments  as  given  by  Moses 
and  reiterated  and  reinforced  by  the  Master,  and  which  cannot  be  rejected 
without  destroying  the  foundations  of  civilized  life.  These  convictions 
are  the  essential  conditions  to  the  incorporation  of  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  message  into  the  lives  of  men  by  which  alone  may  be  satisfied 
the  hunger  of  the  world  for  tranquility  and  peace.  These  truths  the 
Church  can  never  cease  to  teach. 

It  is  for  you  leaders  to  see  that  they  are  taught.  That  God  may  give 
you  power  to  do  so,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  BROADBENT 

Former  President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  was  notified  before  noon  that  I  would  be 
given  five  minutes  in  which  to  bear  my  testimony,  and  I  have  been  worry- 
ing about  it  ever  since. 

I  had  the  privilege,  with  my  family,  under  the  good  graces  of  our 
leadership  and  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  preside  in  the  North  Central 
States  Mission  for  a  little  more  than  three  years.  We  are  very  grateful 
for  that  opportunity.  I  think  I  shall  leave  the  report  of  that  mission  to 
my  worthy  successor,  who  I  believe  is  the  best  man  in  the  Church  to 
succeed  me  in  that  position,  Elder  George  F.  Richards,  Jr.,  who  for  the 
past  six  months  has  been  presiding  in  that  field  of  labor.  We  were 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

released  from  that  glorious  opportunity  to  come  and  take  his  position 
in  the  Temple,  he  having  been  Second  Counselor  to  President  Chipman 
there  while  we  presided  in  the  mission. 

While  in  the  North  Central  States,  I  considered  that  to  be  the  best 
position  in  the  Church.  Now  I  will  say  without  hesitancy  that  I  believe 
that  any  position  in  which  we  may  have  the  privilege  of  serving  in  this 
Church  is  the  best  place  that  we  can  be  appointed  to  labor,  it  matters  not 
where,  only  let  us  remain  active  in  the  Church. 

We  are  just  now  in  the  midst  of  what  our  people  are  considering 
rather  a  tightening  up  on  the  question  of  recommendations  to  get  into 
the  Temple.  I  have  no  disposition  to  speak  at  length  to  that  particular 
point,  but  to  illustrate  with  an  incident  that  occurred  only  a  few  weeks  ago 
when  a  member  from  a  very  worthy  family  came  and  said :  "Are  you 
going  to  keep  me  out  of  the  Temple  for  the  sake  of  a  cup  of  coffee?" 

The  attendant  who  met  that  sister  replied,  "Are  you  going  to  let  a 
cup  of  coffee  keep  you  out  of  the  Temple  ?"  I  think  that  is  the  position 
we  must  take  in  our  testimony,  as  I  find  myself  fully  in  accord  with  all. 
that  has  been  said  at  this  Conference  thus  far. 

I  find  myself  committed  to  the  thought  that  my  testimony  is  my  life. 
I  believe  the  day  will  never  come  when  this  Church  can  move  forward 
without  the  divinity  of  the  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  I  am  sure  that 
there  is  a  practical  side  to  that  testimony.  There  is  no  virtue  in  a  mere 
assent  to  a  confession  of  belief  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  really 
have  to  do  something  about  it.  There  are  two  purposes  as  I  see  it  in  the 
Gospel  plan  and  in  service  of  the  Church.  First,  the  great  mission  of 
seeing  that  this  Gospel  reaches  mankind  throughout  the  world.  We  must 
teach  mankind  in  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people ;  and  the 
second  mission  of  this  message  is  that  we  shall  perfect  ourselves  as 
individuals  through  activity  in  the  Church,  in  applying  its  every  teaching. 

There  is  no  testimony  in  the  heart  of  any  man,  as  I  understand  a 
real  testimony,  who  declares  that  he  believes  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom  if 
he  continues  to  desecrate  it ;  to  break  that  law  in  any  way.  I  am  very 
positive  in  my  mind  that  no  man  can  have  a  full  testimony  of  the  law  of 
tithing  who  does  not  honestly  pay  a  full  tithing.  I  am  very  well  committed 
to  the  thought  that  in  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  there  are  none 
who  have  a  full  and  complete  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  who  neglect  their 
daily  prayers  with  the  family.  I  cannot  conceive  as  a  fact  that  a  Latter- 
day  Saint  with  a  testimony,  will  let  his  children  grow  up  in  idleness 
without  having  them  understand  that  there  is  a  great  educational  institu- 
tion all  around  us,- — I  mean  the  entire  educational  system  provided  by 
the  State  from  the  grades  through  the  university, — that  they  could  be 
receiving  the  benefits  of,  instead  of  leaving  them  to  grow  up  in  ignorance. 
I  am  convinced  that  there  is  no  real  testimony  in  the  homes  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  where  the  parents  do  not  lead  their  children  into  the  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church,  to  train  and  teach  them  the  benefits  and  blessings 
of  this  great  program.  The  plan  of  salvation,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  greatest  university  that  has  ever  been  instituted  in  all  the  world. 

I  am  very  sure  that  if  we  had  a  full  and  complete  testimony  of  the 
Gospel  of  Christ  in  100%  of  the  homes  of  the  806,000  Latter-day  Saints, 


ELDER  MERRILL  D.  CLAY  SON 


91 


and  if  we  were  living  according  to  our  teaching,  that  we  would  need  no 
other  missionary  work  in  the  world.  The  whole  world  would  be  at  our 
feet  and  ask  "How  did  you  do  it?"  for  it  would  produce  such  a  superior 
race  of  men  and  women  as  has  never  been  known  in  the  earth  up  to  the 
present  time. 

If  we  had  a  full  and  complete  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  in 
our  homes  our  young  men  and  maidens  would  not  be  seeking  either  the 
Bishop  or  the  President  of  the  Stake,  a  constable  or  Judge,  or  any  other 
officer  of  the  land  to  consummate  their  marriage  at  the  proper  age  in 
life ;  but  they  would  come  into  the  House  of  the  Lord  to  be  sealed  for  time 
and  for  all  eternity,  knowing  that  this  is  the  only  real  type  of  marriage 
instituted  by  God  and  designed  to  be  eternal. 

I  am  just  as  sure  if  we  might  detail  all  the  other  activities  of  the 
Church  that  my  testimony,  your  testimony,  is  measured  by  my  actions,  by 
your  actions,  and  in  no  other  way.  I  may  give  assent,  but  that  is  not  a 
testimony.  The  testimony  as  I  see  it  is  illustrated  largely  as  a  result  of 
what  is  said  of  the  two  great  Greek  orators,  Demosthenes  and  Cicero. 

When  Cicero  spoke  everyone  said:  "He  speaks  well."  But  when 
Demosthenes  spoke  the  audience  declared,  "Let  us  go  against  Philip." 
Philip  to  us  is  the  sins  of  this  hour ;  Philip  to  us  is  the  desecration  of  the 
Sabbath  Day  and  the  breaking  of  any  and  all  the  other  moral  and  relig- 
ious laws  of  God.  I  may  have  this  testimony  in  knowledge,  but  it  is  as 
sounding  brass  and  a  tinkling  cymbal  unless  my  life  responds  to  it  in 
all  the  affairs  that  I  am  responsible  for. 

God  give  me  the  power  to  move  in  the  circles  where  I  am  appointed, 
to  the  end  that  I  may  show  by  my  works  that  I  do  know  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  true,  I  pray  earnestly  in  His  name,  even  so.  Amen. 

ELDER  MERRILL  D.  CLAYSON 

Former  President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

It  has  been  a  great  opportunity  to  have  had  the  privilege  of  filling 
a  mission  in  the  Southern  States,  as  well  as  a  previous  one  in  England. 

The  introduction  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  into  the  Southern 
States,  like  the  beginning  of  most  new  movements,  was  accompanied 
by  gross  misunderstanding,  hatred  and  bitter  persecution.  The  history 
of  this  mission  is  filled  with  incidents  of  persecution  that  our  mission- 
aries went  through  in  order  to  introduce  the  Gospel  into  that  land. 
From  1875  to  1900  there  is  recorded  over  135  mobbings  experienced  by 
the  missionaries.  More  than  ten  churches  were  either  torn  down  or 
burned  by  the  mobs.  Four  Elders  lost  their  lives  while  carrying  the 
Gospel  to  their  fellowmen  and  it  took  years  to  break  down  this  great 
wall  of  persecution. 

History  is  replete  with  evidences  which  show  that  through  all  of 
this  the  Lord  was  back  of  this  great  work  in  prompting,  inspiring  and 
building  the  lives  of  men  and  women  who  stood  for  truth.  Today  the 
scene  presents  a  completely  different  picture.  Persecution  has  vanished 
and  the  missionaries  are  given  the  opportunity  of  preaching  the  Gospel 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  5  Second  Day 

in  all  cities  of  the  Southern  States  Mission  extending  from  the  Mississippi 
River  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean,  and  from  the  South  Tennessee  line  to  Key 
West,  Florida. 

As  an  example  of  this  great  change  in  the  attitude  of  the  people 
of  the  South  toward  our  Church  may  I  relate  just  one  experience. 
Sometime  ago  the  chairman  of  a  council  of  religions  made  the  request 
that  the  President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission  appear  before  the 
ministers  and  executives  of  more  than  twenty-five  churches  and  tell 
them  the  philosophy  and  story  of  Mormonism.  Naturally  this  request 
was  granted,  and  when  the  day  arrived  the  large  Mormon  Church  in 
Jacksonville,  Florida,  was  filled  to  overflowing.  A  few  Latter-day 
Saints  were  on  the  side,  but  most  of  the  people  in  that  great  hall  were 
ministers  and  religious  executives  of  Catholic,  Protestant,  and  Jewish 
churches. 

It  was  a  great  opportunity.  I  never  felt  more  keenly  in  my  life 
the  responsibility  of  representing  my  Church  and  my  God  than  I  did 
on  that  occasion.  It  was  peculiarly  interesting  to  be  introduced  to  such 
a  congregation  as  that  by  the  wife  of  a  Jewish  Rabbi.  After  the  meeting 
was  over,  Catholics,  Protestants,  and  Jews  came  up  to  the  speaker  with 
as  much  enthusiasm  and  appreciation  for  the  truths  of  Mormonism  that 
had  been  presented,  as  if  they  had  been  members  of  the  Church. 

There  never  has  been  a  time  in  the  Southern  States  Mission  when 
conditions  have  been  more  ideal  for  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  than  today. 
The  number  of  souls  accepting  the  Gospel  in  that  land  is  rising  to  greater 
heights  continually.  The  future  of  this  Mission  presents  a  most  prom- 
ising outlook.  The  people  of  the  South  are  naturally  religious.  They 
are  great  believers  in  the  Bible,  and  the  assertion  that  they  are  sincere 
and  hospitable  cannot  be  overestimated. 

I  believe  that  the  time  is  coming  and  not  far  off  when  this  Mission 
is  to  be  one  of  the  strongest  and  most  powerful  units  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  God  has  endowed  this  great  southern 
country  richly  in  natural  beauty,  with  shrubs,  with  the  oak  and  the  sweet 
magnolia,  wth  the  dogwood,  and  many,  many  other  types  of  her  creation. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunities  I  have  had  of  filling  this  mission.  I 
appreciate  the  opportunity  that  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  has 
given  me  and  believe  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  that  these  men  are 
called  by  God  and  are  working  in  His  behalf  in  this  great  kingdom. 

Whenever  I  have  had  an  element  of  doubt  in  my  life  regarding 
their  instructions  I  have  lived  to  see  the  time  when  I  was  wrong  and 
they  were  right.  This  has  convinced  me  more  than  ever  that  their  vision 
of  this  great  Church  of  ours  is  unusual,  that  they  are  called  of  God, 
that  they  are  inspired  by  God,  and  that  men  and  women  who  follow  their 
advice  will  be  happier,  more  progressive,  and  reach  greater  heights 
than  those  who  stoop  to  complain  and  find  fault  with  God's  servants. 

And  so  I  bear  you  this  testimony  today.  We  may  not  always  think 
as  they  think,  but  they  are  God's  servants.  If  a  time  should  come  that 
any  of  them  are  not  in  line  with  their  duty  we  shall  not  need  to  worry 
about  removing  them.  The  Lord  will  remove  them  from  their  positions 
as  He  did  Saul  and  others  in  days  of  old. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


93 


God  bless  us  to  stand  back  of  them  solidly  as  a  unit  for  the  prog- 
ress of  this  great  Church,  and  for  our  personal  happiness  in  life,  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "O  Divine  Redeemer,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  should  like  again  to  express  our  gratitude  and  appreciation  to  this 
wonderful  chorus  that  has  come  to  us  from  Idaho.  We  are  grateful 
to  them  for  all  the  work  they  have  done  in  preparing  to  do  this  singing 
for  us.  They  are  a  splendid  group  of  young  people,  and  we  certainly  pray 
that  the  Lord  will  bless  them  in  their  labors. 

Please  drive  carefully,  brethren  and  sisters.  I  do  not  know  how 
widespread  this  storm  may  be,  but  be  careful,  and  if  any  of  these  young 
people  in  the  choir  are  returning  home  tonight  I  hope  they  and  their 
drivers  will  be  particularly  careful.  You  who  are  walking  on  the  streets, 
please  be  good  enough  to  walk  carefully  and  observe  the  signals. 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  President  of  the  Alpine  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  Sunday  morning,  April  6. 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  morning,  April  6. 

The  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  with  people  many  of  whom  had 
assembled  far  in  advance  of  the  time  to  begin  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference. The  large  Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle 
was  also  filled  with  people,  and  other  thousands  assembled  on  the  Taber- 
nacle grounds.  Those  who  were  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  on  the  grounds 
listened  to  the  services  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle,  by 
means  of  amplifying  equipment  that  had  been  installed. 

The  meeting  commenced  promptly  at  10  o'clock. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  hour  has  come  for  the  opening  of  this  the  fifth  session  of  this 
Conference.  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  present  and  presiding.  He  has 
asked  President  Clark  to  conduct  the  meeting. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  morning  President  Grant  and 
his  two  Counselors,  the  eleven  Apostles,  all  of  the  First  Seven  Presi- 
dents of  Seventies,  and  all  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  music  for  both  of  the  sessions  today  will  be  by  the  Tabernacle 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  6  Third  Day 

Choir;  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  is  Director,  and  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper  is  organist. 

The  congregation  and  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice" 
—William  W.  Phelps. 

Elder  George  Ariel  Bean,  President  of  the  Union  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  SUSTAINED 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities 
and  General  Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers, 
and  they  were  sustained  by  the  unanimous  vote  of  the  congregation,  as 
follows : 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  Albert  Smith  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

George  F.  Richards  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Stephen  L  Richards  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon 

Richard  R.  Lyman  Harold  B.  Lee 

ACTING  PATRIARCH  TO  THE  CHURCH 

George  F.  Richards 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Acting  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


President  Clark  then  made  the  following  statement  for  the  First 
Presidency : 

In  the  past  history  of  the  Church,  especially  in  President  Brigham 
Young's  time,  it  was  found  necessary  for  the  First  Presidency  or  the 
Twelve,  or  both,  to  call  brethren,  frequently  designated  as  Counselors,  to 
help  carry  on  their  assigned  work  in  the  Church. 

The  rapid  growth  of  the  Church  in  recent  times,  the  constantly  in- 
creasing establishment  of  new  Wards  and  Stakes,  the  ever  widening 
geographical  area  covered  by  Wards  and  Stakes,  the  steadily  pressing 
necessity  for  increasing  our  missions  in  numbers  and  efficiency  that  the 
Gospel  may  be  brought  to  all  men,  the  continual  multiplying  of  Church 
interests  and  activities  calling  for  more  rigid  and  frequent  observation, 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  95 


supervision,  and  direction — all  have  built  up  an  apostolic  service  of  the 
greatest  magnitude. 

The  First  Presidency  and  Twelve  feel  that  to  meet  adequately  their 
great  responsibilities  and  to  carry  on  efficiently  this  service  for  the  Lord, 
they  should  have  some  help. 

Accordingly  it  has  been  decided  to  appoint  Assistants  to  the  Twelve, 
who  shall  be  High  Priests,  who  shall  be  set  apart  to  act  under  the  direction 
of  the  Twelve  in  the  performance  of  such  work  as  the  First  Presidency 
and  the  Twelve  may  place  upon  them. 

There  will  be  no  fixed  number  of  these  Assistants.  Their  number  will 
be  increased  or  otherwise  from  time  to  time  as  the  necessity  of  carrying 
on  the  Lord's  work  seems  to  dictate  to  be  wise. 


It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the  fol- 
lowing named  High  Priests,  who  will  labor  under  the  supervision  and 
direction  of  the  First  Presidency  and  of  the  Twelve: 

Marion  G.  Romney,  President  of  Bonneville  Stake. 

Thomas  E.  McKay,  former  President  of  Ogden  Stake  and  Acting 
President  of  the  European  Mission. 

Clifford  E.  Young,  President  of  the  Alpine  Stake. 

Alma  Sonne,  President  of  Cache  Stake. 

Nicholas  G.  Smith,  President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

THE  FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Richard  L.  Evans 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  IN  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson,  and  A.  William  Lund. 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Rudger  Clawson  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  L.  West 

Stephen  L  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 
Richard  R.  Lyman 

Frank  Evans,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 

SEMINARY  SUPERVISOR 

M.  Lynn  Bennion 

AUDITING  AND  FINANCE  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor; 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 

ADVISERS 

John  A.  Widtsoe  LeGrand  Richards 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Marvin  O.  Ashton 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

John  H.  Taylor 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

GENERAL  COMMITTEE 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice  Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Mark  Austin  Sterling  H.  Nelson 

Campbell  M.  Brown  William  E.  Ryberg 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  Stringham  A.  Stevens 

J.  Frank  Ward 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  97 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Amy  Brown  Lyman,  President 
Marcia  K.  Howells,  First  Counselor 
Donna  D.  Sorensen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Green  Hinckley,  Superintendent 
Adele  Cannon  Howells,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Janet  Murdoch  Thompson,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10:30  to  11:00  a.  m.,  the  regular  weekly 
nation-wide  broadcast  of  choral  and  organ  music  and  brief  spoken  com- 
ment was  presented  as  part  of  the  General  Conference  proceedings.  This 
program,  which  will  have  completed  its  twelfth  year  of  continuous  nation- 
wide broadcasting  in  July  of  this  year,  was  presented  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ,  and  broadcast  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  the 
Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  coast-to-coast  network,  throughout  the 
United  States  and  Canada,  and  by  short  wave  transmission  to  many 
foreign  lands.  This  broadcast  originated  with  Radio  Station  KSL,  Salt 
Lake  City,  and,  exclusive  of  routine  introductory  and  closing  announce- 
ments, was  as  follows : 

Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans :  As  another  week  of  life  begins  for 
all  men,  we  pause  again  within  these  hallowed  walls  to  welcome  you  once 
more  to  the  Everlasting  Hills  of  the  West.  This  traditional  Temple 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


Square  performance,  now  in  its  twelfth  year  of  continuous  nation-wide 
broadcasting,  is  brought  to  you  each  week  at  this  hour  through  the  facil- 
ities of  the  Columbia  network  and  its  affiliated  stations. 

We  begin  with  a  song  written  upon  one  of  the  most  beloved  incidents 
of  the  New  Testament :  "I  think  when  I  read  that  sweet  story  of  old, 
when  Jesus  was  here  among  men,  how  He  called  little  children  as  lambs 
to  His  fold,  I  should  like  to  have  been  with  Him  then." 


Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans :  The  hymn  now  to  be  sung  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  has  come  down  to  us  from  those  whose  courage  and 
conviction  conquered  the  western  desert  nearly  a  century  ago:  "Come, 
come  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear  ....  and  should  we  die  before 
our  journey's  through,  happy  day,  all  is  well." 

"Come,  Come  Ye  Saints" — Clayton   Choir 

"Live  by  my  Side" — Bach  Organ 

Announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans:  Ofttimes  in  the  face  of  some  even- 
tuality that  has  overtaken  us,  we  find  ourselves  saying  regretfully :  "If  I 
had  only  known,  I  would  have  done  differently."  Sometimes  this  is  true, 
but  more  often  it  is  not  the  fact  that  we  do  not  know  that  gets  us  into 
difficulties,  but  rather  that  we  choose  to  ignore  what  we  do  know.  We 
mix  so  little  wisdom  with  our  knowledge.  We  know  the  facts  of  history. 
We  know  what  causes  have  produced  what  results  in  the  past — but  time 
has  a  way  of  making  the  past  seem  different  from  the  present.  We  may 
believe  that  Babylon  and  Rome  fell  because  of  their  moral  and  spiritual 
dissolution.  It  seems  so  easy  to  believe  this  because  it  is  all  far  in  the  past. 
But  it  does  not  seem  so  easy  to  believe  such  probabilities  of  our  own 
time  and  our  own  generation,  however  true  they  may  be.  From  history 
and  from  scripture  it  seems  quite  easy  to  believe  that  men  have  always 
paid  a  price  for  disobedience;  that  the  breaking  of  a  law  has  always 
exacted  its  penalty ;  that  the  terrible  luxury  of  over-indebtedness  has  al- 
ways brought  a  day  of  disastrous  reckoning.  It  seems  easy  to  believe 
of  the  past  that  the  Lord  God  has  often  permitted  evil  men  to  pursue  their 
purposes  for  a  short  season  before  over-ruling  their  evil  works.  It  seems 
easy  to  believe  of  the  past  that  those  who  would  rather  mortgage  the 
future  than  curtail  their  appetites,  have  always  been  brought  low  in 
remorse.  But  what  is  not  so  easy  to  believe,  but  is  also  solemnly  true, 
is  that  these  same  causes  will  still  lead  to  these  same  results  even  in  our 
day.  We  have  no  charmed  immunity  from  the  consequences  of  our  own 
doing.  On  this  point  the  Father  of  the  spirits  of  all  men  has  said : 

I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do 
not  what  I  say,  ye  have  no  promise.  (D.  and  C.  82:10.) 

Knowledge  of  the  past  we  have — both  of  scripture  and  of  history. 
It  would  be  well  to  transmit  that  knowledge  into  wisdom,  by  believing  of 
our  own  generation  what  we  so  readily  believe  of  other  times. 


The  Story  of  Old"— Parks  

Grand  Choeur  in  D" — Spence 


..Choir 
Organ 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


99 


"Gloria" — Mozart   Choir 

"How  Great  the  Wisdom  and  the  Love" — Mclntyre  Organ 

"Abide  With  Me"— Monk  Choir 


The  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Dr.  Frank  W. 
Asper  was  at  the  Tabernacle  Organ.  The  spoken  word  was  by  Richard 
L.  Evans. 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 

Immediately  after  the  conclusion  of  the  traditional  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  Organ  Broadcast,  an  additional  thirty  minute  period,  regularly  known 
as  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  Church  of  the  Air  program,  was 
presented  from  1 1 :00  to  11 :30  a.  m.  as  a  part  of  the  proceedings  of  this 
session  of  the  Conference,  and  was  also  released  over  nation-wide  and 
international  network  facilities.  The  program  was  conducted  by  Elder 
Richard  L.  Evans ;  music  was  by  the  congregation  of  more  than  10,000 
voices  and  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
directing  and  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  Organ,  and  Elder  Stephen  L 
Richards  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  delivered  the  following  address : 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  TABERNACLE 

For  the  benefit  of  those  who  listen  over  the  air,  perhaps  I  should  first 
say  something  about  my  surroundings  at  this  broadcast.  I  stand  in  the 
historic  Tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake  City.  The  vast  auditorium  is  completely 
filled  by  the  congregation.  Thousands  are  standing  in  the  aisles  and  in  the 
spacious  doorways  and  more  thousands  are  in  the  grounds  about  the 
building,  unable  to  gain  admittance.  There  are  more  men  than  women  in 
the  audience,  which,  I  believe,  is  rather  exceptional  in  church  gatherings 
throughout  the  country.  The  people  here  assembled  have  come  from  many 
parts  of  the  United  States,  chiefly  from  the  West,  from  Canada,  Mexico, 
and  some  islands  of  the  Pacific.  War  disturbances  have  prevented  travel 
from  Europe  and  other  distant  countries. 

Behind  the  upper  pulpit  where  I  stand  are  seated  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  composed  of  about  300  singers  who  serve  without  pay  and  who,  for 
more  than  a  decade,  have  gratuitously  furnished  weekly  programs  to  the 
radio  listeners  of  America.  You  have  just  heard  the  voice  of  their  faith- 
ful, capable  announcer,  Richard  L.  Evans.  The  great  Organ  of  the  Taber- 
nacle towers  over  the  Choir  in  the  background, — its  massive,  ornamented 
structure  almost  presenting  the  appearance  of  another  building  within 
the  main  building. 

The  Tabernacle  has  unusual  acoustical  properties,  as  some  of  you 
may  have  learned.  To  demonstrate  these  properties  a  pin  is  dropped  on 
a  table  near  the  rostrum  and  those  who  listen  in  the  other  end  of  the 
building,  200  or  more  feet  away,  are  able  to  hear  it.  These  remarkable 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

sound  effects  are  obtained  largely  through  the  elliptical  dome-like  roof 
which  was  erected  by  the  Pioneers  in  early  days  before  the  railroads  came 
to  this  section  of  the  country.  Steel  girders  were  not  available,  bolts  and 
even  nails  were  hard  to  obtain.  So  the  roof  is  supported  by  wooden  truss- 
work  made  of  timbers  taken  from  the  nearby  mountains  and  in  lieu  of 
bolts  and  metal  commonly  used  in  such  construction,  wooden  pins  were 
employed  as  fasteners  and  strips  of  rawhide  used  to  secure  the  pins  and 
prevent  splitting  of  the  timbers. 

The  Tabernacle  is  but  one  of  many  enterprises  undertaken  and  suc- 
cessfully completed  by  the  Pioneers,  during  the  time  they  were  isolated 
from  production  centers.  They  were  of  necessity  forced  to  be  resource- 
ful and  they  were  not  without  ambition  and  skill.  They  came  to  this 
then  forbidding  land  of  desert  and  mountains,  driven  by  a  great  religious 
urge  and  a  still  greater  religious  intolerance  on  the  part  of  others.  The 
story  of  their  persecutions,  their  drivings  and  migrations  is  pretty  well 
known.  It  is  doubtful,  however,  that  their  motives  and  their  lives  have 
ever  been  generally  understood.  It  is  from  their  motivating  concepts  that 
I  desire  to  draw  the  theme  of  this  hour. 

RELIGIOUS  IDEALS  OF  THE  PIONEERS 

These  Pioneers,  who  were  the  progenitors  of  many  who  sit  in  this 
audience  and  others  who  hear  my  voice  this  day,  had  the  idea  that  religion 
is  the  most  important  and  vital  thing  in  the  world.  They  subordinated 
all  things  to  it.  They  construed  it  to  be  broad  and  comprehensive  enough 
to  cover  every  aspect  of  living.  They  gave  to  temporal  things  spiritual 
significance.  They  accepted  divine  law  as  the  standard  by  which  all 
things  are  rightly  determined.  They  consecrated  themselves  to  the  doing 
of  God's  will  and  the  establishment  of  His  Kingdom. 

So  resolute  and  intent  were  they  upon  this  latter  objective  that  they 
stood  ready  to  devote  time,  talent  and  property  to  the  advancement  of  the 
Cause  in  which  they  believed,  often  with  untold  sacrifice  to  themselves 
and  their  families.  In  response  to  the  call  of  their  leaders  they  frequently 
undertook  hazardous  colonization  projects  which  deprived  them  of  the 
security  and  comfort  of  homes  they  had  built  and  communities  they  had 
helped  to  establish.  Then,  too,  the  menfolk  would  leave  their  newly 
formed  homes  with  the  bare  subsistence  obtained  for  their  families  and 
again  at  the  call  of  their  religious  leaders  undertake,  at  their  own  ex- 
pense, missions  for  the  Church,  frequently  retraversing  the  path  of  their 
migration  to  distant  lands  from  which  they  had  come  or  to  other  countries, 
seeking  to  carry  to  others,  perhaps  their  kinsmen,  neighbors  and  friends 
of  the  Old  World,  the  message  in  which  they  believed ;  so  that  in  the 
early  days  of  the  settlement  of  this  country  there  were  always  two  armies 
on  the  march, — one  made  up  of  men  and  women  coming  from  the  eastern 
States  and  from  lands  across  the  sea,  converts  of  the  new  faith,  making 
the  long,  weary  trek  across  the  prairies  to  the  land  and  people  of  their 
adoption, — and  the  other  made  up  of  missionaries,  many  of  whom  came 
from  the  ranks  of  these  same  converts,  winding  their  way  back  across 
the  prairies  to  expand  the  knowledge  of  the  truth  they  had  found.  It  was 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


101 


one  continuous  round  from  convert  to  missionary  and  missionary  to 
convert. 

This  was  the  demonstration  of  the  vitality  of  their  religion  to  these 
people.  No  one  who  knew  their  sacrifices  ever  questioned  their  sincerity. 
They  had  been  taught  to  make  sacrifices  and  endure  hardships  for  the 
Cause  they  had  espoused  by  their  first  leader.  His  devotion,  his  persever- 
ance, and  his  loyalty  through  the  unspeakable  persecutions  heaped  upon 
him,  finally  resulting  in  his  cruel  martyrdom,  had  served  to  make  the 
hardships  and  deprivations  of  his  followers  seem  small  by  comparison. 
So  these  men  and  women  of  the  early  days  did  not  complain.  They  wel- 
comed opportunities  for  service  and  they  counted  themselves  fortunate  to 
be  chosen  for  great  undertakings. 

EARLY  MISSIONARIES  AND  THEIR  MESSAGE 

These  missionaries  of  whom  I  speak  were  not  trained  theologians 
and  preachers.  They  were  almost  entirely  made  up  of  men  from  the  or- 
dinary walks  of  life  who  made  their  own  living  by  their  own  work.  Not 
many  of  them  had  enjoyed  the  privilege  of  extensive  schooling  because 
schools  were  rare  in  those  days,  but  they  were  hard-headed  men  of  prac- 
tical experience  who  knew  the  value  of  industry  and  who  prized  educa- 
tion, even  though  they  may  not  have  had  much  of  it.  Many  of  them  came 
from  the  New  England  States.  Their  fathers  had  fought  in  the  Revolu- 
tionary War,  so  they  knew  the  meaning  and  the  value  of  freedom  and 
democracy.  They  believed  the  Constitution  to  have  been  framed  by 
divinely  inspired  men  and  they  loved  their  country  with  a  greater  love 
than  in  some  instances  it  had  deserved  at  their  hands.  So  these  mis- 
sionaries for  the  most  part  were  loyal,  free  Americans  who  went  forth 
with  conviction  in  their  hearts  to  preach  a  religion  and  a  Gospel  which 
they  believed  would  make  all  men  free.  They  had  no  eloquence  but  the 
eloquence  of  their  message,  but  people  everywhere  listened  to  them  and 
believed  in  their  sincerity  and  many  thousands  embraced  the  truth  which 
they  taught. 

Perhaps  the  principal  thing  which  made  them  feel  that  their  religion 
was  so  vital  and  their  responsibility  in  it  so  great  was  that  they  believed 
that  Jesus  Christ  had  set  in  the  earth  anew  His  holy  Gospel  with  a  new 
interpretation  of  it  for  all  mankind.  They  considered  themselves  under 
obligation  to  present  this  new  interpretation  of  the  Gospel  to  every  per- 
son possible  for  them  to  reach  that  he  might  have  the  opportunity  of 
accepting  or  rejecting  the  message.  I  think  perhaps  you  might  be  inter- 
ested to  know  what  some  of  these  new  interpretations  which  the  early 
missionaries  carried  to  the  people  of  the  world  are. 

They  taught  that  since  every  man  is  a  son  of  God,  each  man  is  en- 
titled, if  he  lives  worthily,  to  receive  and  exercise  the  power  of  God  in  the 
form  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  They  believed  that  this  divine  gift  and  its 
bestowal  was  not  reserved  merely  for  a  few  selected  men,:  but  that  it 
was  essential  for  every  man  who  would  do  Christ's  work  effectively 
and  prepare  himself  for  eternal  life  with  the  Savior  of  the  world. 
They  taught  that  each  one  receiving  this  power  should  use  it  to  bless 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  AptU  6  Third  Day 

the  lives  of  others  by  performing  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  and  by 
carrying  with  him  the  inspiring  and  comforting  spirit  which  emanates 
from  the  Priesthood.  They  bore  witness  of  the  authentic  bestowal  of 
the  Priesthood  in  their  generation  and  of  innumerable  demonstrations 
of  its  efficacy.  They  interpreted  the  Priesthood  as  a  divine  force  coming 
to  men  on  whom  it  is  bestowed  to  be  exercised  only  in  mercy  and  by 
persuasive  means,  without  any  compulsion  whatsoever.  They  taught  that 
anyone  who  sought  to  use  his  Priesthood  for  ulterior  purposes  or  self 
aggrandizement  or  in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness  should  lose  it.  It 
was  recognized  as  a  Christ-like  endowment,  thriving  only  in  Christian 
virtue. 


NEW  CONCEPTS  IN  THE  RESTORED  GOSPEL 


They  set  forth  a  new  concept  of  man's  body,  that  it  is  the  tabernacle 
wherein  is  housed  the  spirit  of  man  which  is  the  literal  child  of  God,  the 
Father,  and  that  no  man  can  knowingly  take  into  his  body  poisons  and 
other  deleterious  substances  without  offending  God,  the  Father  of  his 
spirit, — so  that  infractions  of  the  true  laws  of  health  have  spiritual  as 
well  as  temporal  significance.  They  endeavored  to  persuade  men  to  re- 
frain from  indulgence  in  intoxicating  liquors,  tobacco,  coffee,  tea  and 
other  narcotics,  not  alone  for  reasons  of  health  but  because  they  believed 
that  such  practices  would  militate  against  faith  and  spiritual  growth  and 
consequently  against  true  worship  of  God.  As  a  health  measure,  these 
early  teachings  of  more  than  a  century  ago  have  been  amply  vindicated 
by  modern  science  and  their  spiritual  value  has  likewise  been  sub- 
stantiated. 

Another  new  concept  which  these  men  taught  related  to  the  matri- 
monial status.  They  set  forth  that  marital  unions,  through  the  perform- 
ance of  proper  ordinances  under  divine  authority,  may  be  made  to  endure 
not  for  time  and  earthly  life  only,  but  for  all  eternity;  that  a  man  and 
woman  properly  married  by  the  holy  Priesthood  may  establish  a  home 
which  will  be  the  basis  for  their  exaltation  and  happiness  in  the  world  to 
come ;  that  all  children  born  to  them  in  this  holy  compact  of  marriage 
shall  belong  to  and  be  with  them  hereafter;  that  death  does  not  break 
such  bonds  and  that  sin  only  can  sever  such  ties, — the  epitome  of  such 
teaching  being  that  our  heaven  is  little  more  than  the  projection  of  our 
home  into  eternity. 

They  gave  to  the  world  a  new  idea  about  salvation.  The  interpreta- 
tion which  they  promulgated  was  that  through  the  atonement  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  all  men  would  be  resurrected  from  the  grave  and  come 
forth  in  a  new  life  hereafter — and  this  irrespective  of  the  creed  they 
might  profess  or  without  belief  in  or  acceptance  of  any  religion  whatso- 
ever. They  made  clear  distinction  between  general  salvation  or  resur- 
rection from  the  grave  and  individual  salvation  or  exaltation  earned  by 
a  man  through  his  compliance  with  the  laws  of  God.  They  taught  that 
there  are  preferential  places  in  heaven  as  there  are  on  earth  and  that  the 
highest  place  or  Celestial  Kingdom  could  be  attained  only  by  those  who 
faithfully  subscribe  to  and  keep  all  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


103 


of  Jesus  Christ  and  thereby  entitle  themselves  to  come  into  the  presence 
of  our  God  and  Jesus  Christ,  His  Son. 

They  taught,  too,  that  holy  Temples  dedicated  to  the  Lord  are  es- 
sential for  the  administration  of  some  of  the  necessary  ordinances  of  the 
Gospel  to  prepare  for  the  highest  blessings  to  which  man  may  aspire  and 
that  these  Temples  are  also  necessary  for  the  accomplishment  of  certain 
vicarious  work  to  be  performed  for  our  ancestors  who  have  passed  away 
without  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  plan,  so  that  ultimately  none  of  God's 
children  will  be  treated  unfairly  but  that  each  shall  have  opportunity  to 
accept  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and  earn  our  Father's  blessings.  So 
confident  were  these  early  missionaries  as  to  the  necessity  and  vitality  of 
this  Temple  work  that  they  and  their  people  made  almost  incomprehen- 
sible sacrifices  for  the  erection  of  beautiful  buildings  to  be  dedicated  to 
the  Lord  for  these  holy  purposes.  One  such  building  built  at  Nauvoo, 
Illinois,  at  a  cost  of  a  million  dollars,  entailing  years  of  labor  and  untold 
deprivation  to  poor  people  was  wantonly  destroyed  by  a  mob  within  sight 
of  the  people  fleeing  from  their  cruelty  in  evacuation  of  the  city.  Where- 
ever  the  adherents  to  the  faith  have  gathered  in  sufficient  numbers  they 
have  always  caused  to  be  erected  as  their  most  expensive  establishment  a 
Temple  of  the  Lord  for  the  performance  of  sacred  ordinances  and  cere- 
monies. 

These  missionaries  also  carried  the  word  that  new  revelations  had 
come  from  the  Lord,  setting  forth,  among  other  things,  these  new  con- 
cepts of  which  I  have  told  you  and  bearing  new  and  additional  witness  of 
the  divinity  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  They  acknowledged 
these  new  revelations  as  additional  scripture  to  the  Bible  and  as  the 
Word  of  God.  They  heralded  them  as  a  supreme  blessing  in  the  resolu- 
tion of  doubt  and  uncertainty  and  the  acquisition  of  deep  and  abiding 
faith  in  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  In  these  revelations  are  such  important 
statements  as  these : 

Truth  is  knowledge  of  things  as  they  are,  and  as  they  were  and 
as  they  are  to  come. 

The  spirit  of  truth  is  of  God. 

And  no  man  receiveth  a  fullness  unless  he  keepeth  His  command- 
ments. 

The  glory  of  God  -is  intelligence,  or  in  other  words  light  and  truth. 

No  man  can  be  saved  in  ignorance.  A  man  is  saved  no  faster  than 
he  learns.  Whatever  knowlelge  a  man  acquires  in  this  life  he  will  take 
with  him  into  the  world  to  come. 

On  the  basis  of  such  statements  the  doctrine  of  eternal  progression 
was  deduced  and  taught.  Men  were  given  to  understand  that  through 
obedience  to  the  laws  of  the  Gospel  they  might  continue  to  grow  and 
develop  in  knowledge  and  power  until  in  eternity  they  would  come  to 
divinity  itself ;  that  the  highest  order  of  intelligence  is  that  intelligence 
which  comprehends  the  things  of  God  and  eternity ;  that,  "It  is  the  glory 
of  God  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man,"  and 
that  "men  are  that  they  might  have  joy."  The  place  of  good  and  evil  in  the 
world  and  their  necessity  for  the  exercise  of  man's  free  agency  were  all 
set  forth  in  this  new  interpretation  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ. 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

A  VITAL  FAITH  THE  NEED  OF  THE  WORLD 

I  have,  of  course,  only  outlined  very  briefly  the  distinctive  doctrines 
and  principles  which  these  early  missionaries  carried  to  many  countries 
of  the  earth.  My  purpose  in  telling  you  of  this  almost  incomparable  devo- 
tion to  a  cause  is  to  emphasize  the  necessity  I  feel  exists  in  the  Christian 
world  for  a  living,  vital  faith  that  truly  works.  Surely  all  observers  must 
be  convinced  that  mere  protestation  of  faith  in  Christ  is  wholly  inade- 
quate to  carry  forward  His  work  and  set  up  His  Kingdom  in  the  earth. 
"Faith  without  works  is  dead."  Lip  service  is  futile.  No  man  truly 
loves  Christ  unless  he  obeys  the  laws  of  His  Gospel.  We  never  have  the 
truth  until  we  adopt  it  in  our  lives.  No  man  learns  true  worship  of 
Christ  without  truly  giving  himself  to  Christian  service  and  I  believe 
that  no  man  is  a  true  disciple  of  Christ  who  does  not  acknowledge  Him 
for  what  He  really  is,  the  Savior  and  the  divine  God  of  this  earth. 

Equivocation  about  His  divinity  not  only  would  rob  the  Christ  of 
His  real  power  but  it  likewise  robs  the  professed  Christian  of  the  con- 
cept and  the  loyalty  which  alone  make  him  a  true  disciple.  What  the 
world  most  needs  today  is  not  so  much  adoration  of  the  attributes  of 
Christ,  however  beautiful  and  beneficent  they  are,  as  the  true  worship 
and  acknowledgment  of  the  sovereignty  of  the  Lord  and  His  divine 
power.  When  men  and  nations  look  to  Him  as  the  arbiter  of  all  ques- 
tions and  the  principles  of  His  Gospel  as  the  criteria  by  which  all  con- 
siderations shall  be  judged,  then,  and  then  only,  will  the  world  be  the 
beneficiary  of  the  true  Christian  influence  and  power. 

IRREVERENCE  WEAKENS  FAITH 

This  will  not  come  about  so  long  as  men  mock  God  and  set  at  naught 
His  holy  laws.  No  man  can  love  God  and  damn  Him.  Irreverence  ex- 
pressed in  profanity  is  an  all  too  important  factor  in  weakening  Christian 
influence.  I  call  upon  men  everywhere,  for  the  most  part  thoughtless 
men,  to  cease  taking  the  name  of  God  and  Christ  in  vain  and  to  seek 
to  establish,  among  the  youth  particularly,  a  sincere  reverence  for  these 
holy  Beings.  Why  do  we  have  to  endure  such  profanity  in  our  military 
establishments  ?  I  should  think  the  Commander-in-Chief  would  exercise 
his  great  influence  to  stop  it. 

I  am  sure  that  disrespect  for  sacred  names  and  sacred  things  has  in 
large  measure  contributed  to  widespread  disregard  of  law,  authority  and 
established  institutions  throughout  the  land.  If  a  boy  is  taught  to  revere 
God  and  respect  his  father,  we  may  be  pretty  well  assured  of  a  loyal,  law 
abiding  citizen,  whereas  those  who  blaspheme  holy  names  and  speak  of 
their  parents  as  "the  old  man"  and  "the  old  woman"  are  very  apt  to  be 
a  liability  rather  than  an  asset  to  society. 

RESPONSIBILITY  OF  EDUCATORS 

I  decry  the  tendency  manifest  among  certain  educators  who  are  still 
greatly  in  the  minority,  I  am  happy  to  believe,  and  among  other  sophisti- 
cated people  to  tear  down  the  faith  of  youth  and  their  confidence  in 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


105 


eternal  verities.  I  can  scarcely  think  of  anything  more  cruel  and  mean 
than  for  one  who  has  had  extended  educational  opportunities  and  the  ad- 
vantage of  a  position  in  an  institution  of  learning  to  impose  upon  the 
credulity  and  immaturity  of  a  student  and  rob  the  young  mind  of  a  faith 
and  confidence  that  will  support  him  at  least  until  he  has  had  experience 
sufficient  to  make  wise  decisions. 

Would  not  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  America  today  take  great 
comfort  if  they  could  have  the  assurance  that  all  their  boys  in  the  training 
camps  were  fortified  and  directed  by  faith  in  God?  I  believe  they 
would,  and  anyone  who  has  robbed  them  of  that  faith  has  cause  for  regret 
and  repentance. 

It  is  therefore  living  faith  in  the  eternal  God  and  in  Jesus  Christ, 
His  Son  and  faith  in  man,  too,  as  the  son  of  God  which  is  so  imperative 
today  in  the  advancement  of  Christian  civilization.  Such  faith  will  clari- 
fy and  not  mystify  our  thinking,  our  relationships  and  our  aspirations. 

I  firmly  believe  that  true  science  has  no  quarrel  with  faith  of  this 
order.  The  scientists  who  are  frank  enough  to  admit  the  limitations  of 
their  fields  of  research  and  demonstration  will  impugn  neither  the  mo- 
tives nor  convictions  of  the  spiritual  man  of  true  faith.  If  they  them- 
selves do  not  share  such  faith,  their  very  scientific  attitude  should  prompt 
them  to  say  of  the  faithful,  "They  may  be  right, — we  do  not  know.  The 
province  of  the  spiritual  is  beyond  the  scope  of  our  investigations." 

Now  I  realize,  my  friends,  that  this  is  a  subject  on  which  the  ex- 
periences and  the  convictions  of  each  man  determine  his  attitude  and 
conclusion.  Faith  is  individual.  No  one  can  acquire  it  for  another. 
About  all  one  can  do  for  another  is  to  voice  his  testimony  and  substantiate 
it  by  consistent  living. 

THE  VALUE  OF  A  LIVING  FAITH 

I  take  the  liberty,  in  conclusion,  to  give  to  you  my  humble  assurance 
that  the  living  faith  in  Jesus  Christ  which  dominated  the  lives  and  work 
of  our  Pioneer  progenitors  is  alive  in  the  hearts  of  our  people  today.  I 
know  that  there  is  vitality  and  power  in  that  faith.  I  have  had  ample 
demonstration  of  its  efficacy  in  my  own  life  and  I  commend  it  with  all 
the  power  of  my  soul  to  men  and  women  of  all  countries,  tongues  and 
creeds  the  world  over.  It  will  resolve  doubt  and  uncertainties.  It  will 
give  high  purpose  to  living.  It  will  fortify  against  temptation.  It  will 
promote  love  and  charity.  It  will  assuage  sorrow,  and  rob  death  of  its 
sting.-  It  will  bring  contentment,  peace,  enduring  happiness,  and  a  spirit 
that  passes  understanding. 

God  grant  that  such  faith  may  be  the  portion  of  men  and  nations 
and  that  divine  truth  may  quickly  triumph,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord  of  this  earth.  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High" — Charles  W.  Penrose. 

An  anthem,  "Praise  Ye  the  Lord" — Evan  Stephens — was  sung  by 
the  Choir. 

(End  of  Church  of  the  Air  Program) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Third  Day 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

From  among  the  sublime  teachings  of  the  Savior  in  the  Sermon  on 
the  Mount  I  quote  the  following : 

Seek  ye  first  the  Kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteousness;  and  all 
these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you. 

This  admonition  and  promise  I  have  chosen  for  my  theme  this  morn- 
ing because  (1)  it  seems  so  aptly  to  epitomize  generally  the  timely  in- 
structions given  at  this  Conference.  Then,  too,  it  expresses  the  ideal  to 
which  every  man  who  holds  the  Priesthood  has  subscribed.  Again,  if 
heeded,  it  will  be  the  greatest  and  best  safeguard  to  our  sons  who  are 
called  to  serve  their  country.  And,  finally,  I  firmly  believe  that  if  rulers 
of  nations  followed  that  admonition  contention  and  war  would  be  banish- 
ed from  among  men. 

What  the  kingdom  of  God  is,  is  answered  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  as  follows : 

Where  there  is  a  prophet,  a  priest,  or  a  righteous  man  unto  whom 
God  gives  His  oracles,  there  is  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Seeking  first  the  Kingdom  means  subordinating  to  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  all  other  aims  and  pursuits. 

WHAT  THE  KINGDOM  OF  GOD  IMPLIES 

The  term  implies  divine  rule  in  the  hearts  and  wills  of  men  and  in 
society.  Man  acknowledges  a  power  and  authority  superior  to  his  own. 
"It  is  not  the  arbitrary  rule  of  a  despotic  Deity,  but  is  based  upon  man's 
voluntary  submission  of  his  will  to  that  of  God's."  On  one  occasion  Jesus 
said,  "The  kingdom  of  God  is  within  you."  That  is  true,  for  it  is  in  the 
heart  of  man  that  membership  in  the  outward  kingdom  has  its  origin. 
Devotion  and  loyalty  that  spring  thus  from  the  heart  "for  the  common 
Father  of  all  mankind  is  the  strongest  and  only  universal  bond  that  can 
bind  all  men  together."  Only  such  a  group  looking  as  one  mind  to 
heaven  for  guidance  can  eventually  transform  human  society. 

The  Kingdom  of  God  implies  also  a  universal  brotherhood  in  which 
all  men  acknowledge  God  as  their  Supreme  Ruler  and  cherish  the  desire 
to  obey  His  divine  will. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  mission  of  the  Church  is  to  prepare  the  way  for  the  final  estab- 
lishment of  the  Kingdom  of  God  on  earth.  Its  purpose  is,  first,  to  de- 
velop in  men's  lives  Christ-like  attributes ;  and,  second,  to  transform  so- 
ciety so  that  the  world  may  be  a  better  and  more  peaceful  place  in  which 
to  live. 

HOW  THE  CHURCH  CONTRIBUTES  TO  CHARACTER  BUILDING 

In  the  changing  of  men's  lives  the  Church  recognizes  certain  funda- 
mental factors  so  essentially  important  that  they  are  constantly  called  to 


106 

Sunday,  April  6 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


107 


our  attention,  and  have  been  impressively  emphasized  by  the  speakers 
in  this  Conference.  For  example,  recognizing  the  reality  of  the  divine 
edict  "the  sins  of  the  fathers  will  be  visited  upon  the  children  to  the  third 
and  fourth  generation"  the  Church  emphasizes  the  necessity  of  moral  and 
physical  fitness  for  parenthood.  Hence  the  constant  plea  that  young 
men  and  women  live  clean,  chaste  lives  prior  to  their  assuming  the  re- 
sponsibility of  marriage,  and  their  remaining  true  to  that  sacred  cove- 
nant. Hence  is  constantly  held  before  us  the  ideal  of  Temple  marriage, 
where  the  sanctity  of  the  marriage  covenant  is  sealed  and  ratified  by  the 
highest  divine  authority  given  of  God  to  man.  Hence  the  emphasis  laid 
upon  the  Word  of  Wisdom  wherein  tobacco,  stimulants,  and  narcotics 
are  eschewed,  and  temperance  and  obedience  to  the  laws  of  health  en- 
couraged and  admonished.  Hence  the  teachings  from  childhood  to  be 
"honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  to  do  good  to  all  men." 

The  Church,  recognizing  the  potency  of  other  influences  besides  the 
home  in  the  growing  child's  life  before  he  reaches  self-determination,  of- 
fers a  religious  environment  almost  from  the  time  of  birth.  The  Sunday 
School,  the  Primary,  the  Mutual  Improvement  Association  arrange  suit- 
able instruction,  entertainment,  and  proper  guidance  from  the  cradle  roll 
to  maturity. 

FIVE  FATEFUL  YEARS 

Says  one  social  writer : 

The  most  fateful  years  in  life  are  the  first  five,  and  this  is  the 
time  when  life  is  subject  to  its  environment,  and  before  self-conscious- 
ness and  self-direction  are  aroused.  In  a  large  sense  man's  life  has 
its  bent  and  direction,  its  color  and  tone  before  it  has  begun  to  reason 
and  choose. 

Believing  the  adage,  "Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he  should  go,  and 
when  he  is  old  he  will  not  depart  therefrom,"  the  Church  fosters  Quor- 
ums and  Auxiliaries  in  which  over  fifty  thousand  officers  and  teachers 
willingly  and  gratuitously  devote  their  time,  ability,  and  means  for  the 
development  of  character  among  the  children  and  youth  of  the  Church. 
Parents  who  fail  to  encourage  their  boys  to  attend  their  Quorum  duties, 
who  fail  to  encourage  their  children  to  take  advantage  of  the  Sunday 
School,  the  Primary,  and  the  Mutual  are  recreant  to  their  duties  and  to 
their  parental  responsibilities. 

These  are  but  a  few  of  the  aspects  of  the  Church  devoted  to  the  phase 
of  character  building,  and  to  something  which  is  even  more  precious — ■ 
a  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  restored  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  first  duty  of  the  citizens  of  the  Kingdom  is  to  live  exemplary 
lives. 

TRANSFORMING  SOCIETY 

But  as  I  have  said,  the  betterment  of  the  individual  is  only  one  aim 
of  the  Church.  The  complete  ideal  of  Mormonism  is  to  make  upright 
citizens  in  an  ideal  society. 

On  the  night  of  Gethsemane,  in  the  Upper  Room,  before  Jesus  and 
the  Apostles  left  for  the  garden,  He  prayed : 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

I  am  now  no  more  in  the  world,  but  these  are  in  the  world  ...  I 
pray  not  that  thou  shouldst  take  them  out  of  the  world,  but  that  thou 
shouldst  keep  them  from  evil. 

The  mission  of  the  Church  is  to  minimize  and  if  possible  eliminate 
these  "evils"  from  the  world.  The  need  of  such  a  unifying  force  is  ex- 
pressed by  a  leading  writer  (Samuel  Z.  Batten)  as  follows: 

The  world  has  many  good  people  in  it  today,  more  who  are  ready 
to  believe  than  ever  before,  but  these  people  possess  no  unifying  ideals, 
no  organic  principles,  no  coherent  view  of  life,  no  synthetic  program 
of  action.  Society  is  coming  to  self-consciousness,  and  is  beginning  to 
take  note  of  its  troubles  and  needs,  but  it  has  no  clear  sense  of  direc- 
tion, no  organizing  impulse,  no  all-inclusive  ideals,  no  mighty  impul- 
sion. ...  Is  there  anything  by  which  our  nature  can  gain  its  unity; 
our  race  acknowledge  its  brotherhood,  our  humanity  order  its  affairs 
as  a  whole? 

We  answer,  yes — such  a  uniting  force,  such  an  ideal  is  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  as  restored  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  It  ex- 
plains man's  life  and  its  purpose,  and  has  within  it  the  vital  saving  ele- 
ments, noble  ideals,  and  spiritual  uplift  for  which  the  heart  of  man  today 
is  yearning. 

Right  thinking,  upright  men  and  women  everywhere  are  desirous 
of  eliminating  from  our  communities  evil  elements  that  are  constantly 
disintegrating  society — the  liquor  problem  with  its  drunkenness,  poverty, 
and  misery ;  immorality  with  all  its  attendant  evils ;  war,  which  is  liter- 
ally hell  on  earth,  and  which  is  now  devastating  Europe  and  Asia;  and 
threatening  our  own  land. 

SOCIAL  ATTITUDE 

What  should  be  our  attitude  towards  these  social  conditions  ?  First, 
see  to  it  that  as  individuals  we  do  not  by  our  acts  contribute  to  their  ex- 
istence, and,  second,  put  forth  every  righteous  effort  to  eradicate  them 
from  our  communities. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  seeking  through 
its  Welfare  Plan,  through  increased  Quorum  consciousness  and  respon- 
sibility, to  make  both  home  and  community  environment  better  and 
brighter. 

Cooperation  and  mutual  helpfulness  are  virtues  characteristic  of  the 
Church  of  Christ.  Its  watchwords  are  unity,  efficiency,  brotherhood — 
a  brotherhood  in  which  justice  and  mercy  prompt  the  actions  of  all  men. 

President  Young  once  said : 

Whoever  lives  to  see  the  Kingdom  of  God  fully  established  upon 
the  earth,  will  see  a  Government  that  will  protect  every  person  in  his 
rights. 

And  again : 

If  the  Kingdom  of  God  were  established  on  earth  ....  one  com- 
munity would  not  be  permitted  to  array  itself  in  opposition  to  another 
to  coerce  them  to  their  standard.  One  denomination  would  not  be 
suffered  to  persecute  another  because  they  differed  in  religious  belief 
and  mode  of  worship.    Everyone  would  be  fully  protected  in  the 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


*109 


enjoyment  of  all  religious  and  social  rights,  and  no  State,  no  Govern- 
ment, no  community,  no  person  would  have  the  privilege  of  infring- 
ing on  the  rights  of  another. 

HONEST  LABOR  ENCOURAGED 

The  arrogance  of  wealth,  and  the  bitterness  of  soul  that  springs 
from  poverty  would  find  no  place  in  a  society  made  up  of  men  and  women 
who  truly  believed  and  put  forth  sincere  effort  to  live  in  accordance  with 
the  Gospel. 

The  present  strife  between  capital  and  labor,  which  in  its  enmity 
threatens  to  undermine  the  very  foundation  of  the  Government,  would 
cease,  for  the  spirit  and  actions  of  coercion,  intimidation,  and  violence 
are  contrary  to  the  teachings  of  Jesus  and  by  Him  would  be  most  vehe- 
mently denounced.  Intimidation  and  dictatorship  are  elements  foreign 
to  the  spirit  and  government  of  the  Church.  The  Church  encourages  and 
recognizes  honest  labor  whenever  and  wherever  it  presents  itself,  but 
it  must  condemn  the  spirit  of  oppression,  of  compulsion,  of  intimidation 
wherever  it  rears  its  head. 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of 
the  Priesthood  only  by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering,  by  meekness, 
and  by  love  unfeigned. 

Says  Beverley  Nichols : 

Economic  problems,  racial  problems,  sexual  problems,  unemploy- 
ment problems,  war  problems,  are  myths,  ugly  phantoms  created  by 
minds  that  are  not  washed  with  the  Spirit  of  Christ,  absurd  chimerae 
that  could  only  flourish  in  deserts  across  which  the  shadow  of  the  cross 
has  never  fallen.  I  know  that  our  lives  have  no  "problems"  as  long  as 
we  trust  in  Christ,  and  the  fact  that  my  own  life  is  full  of  problems 
at  the  moment  is  only  a  proof  of  the  distance  that  I  still  have  to  travel 
before  reaching  perfection. 

There  are  those  in  the  world  who  say  that  jealousy,  enmity,  selfish- 
ness in  men's  hearts  will  always  preclude  the  establishing  of  the  ideal 
society  known  as  the  Kingdom  of  God.  No  matter  what  doubters  and 
scoffers  say,  the  mission  of  the  Church  of  Christ  is  to  eliminate  sin  and 
wickedness  from  the  hearts  of  men,  and  so  to  transform  society  that  peace 
and  good-will  will  prevail  on  this  earth. 

The  whole  purpose  of  Christ's  existence  on  this  earth  was  to 
change  human  nature.  And  if  you  deny  the  possibility,  you  are  saying 
to  him,  by  implication,  "Go  back  ...  we  don't  want  you  .  .  .  you're 
attempting  the  impossible."  Some  brave  men  have  said  this,  but 
it  was  the  grey  uniform  of  the  atheist  that  they  were  wearing,  and 
not  the  shining  robes  of  the  servant  of  Christ. 

HUMAN  NATURE 

You  CAN  change  human  nature.  No  man  who  has  felt  in  him 
the  spirit  of  Christ,  even  for  half  a  minute,  can  deny  this  truth,  the 
one  great  truth  in  a  world  of  little  lies.  You  DO  change  human  nature, 
your  own  human  nature,  if  you  surrender  it  to  Him.  To  deny  this 
is  to  proclaim  yourself  as  an  uneducated  fool. 

Human  nature  CAN  be  changed,  here  and  now. 

Human  nature  HAS  been  changed,  in  the  past. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


Human  nature  MUST  be  changed,  on  an  enormous  scale,  in  the 
future,  unless  the  world  is  to  be  drowned  in  its  own  blood. 
And  only  Christ  can  change  it  

Twelve  men  did  a  lot  to  change  the  world,  nineteen  hundred  years 
ago.  Twelve  simple  men,  with  only  the  wind  to  bear  them  over  the 
seas,  with  only  a  few  pence  in  their  pockets,  and  a  shining  faith  in  their 
hearts.  They  fell  far  short  of  their  ideal,  their  words  were  twisted  and 
mocked,  and  false  temples  were  built  over  their  bones,  in  praise  of  a 
Christ  they  would  have  rejected.  And  yet,  by  the  light  of  their  in- 
spiration many  of  the  world's  loveliest  things  were  created  and  many 
of  the  world's  finest  minds  inspired. 

If  twelve  men  did  that,  nineteen  hundred  years  ago,  what  might 
not  twelve  men  do  today?  For  God  has  now  given  us  the  power  of 
whispering  across  space,  or  transmitting  our  thoughts  from  one  end  of 
the  earth  to  another.  What  shall  we  whisper — what  shall  we  think? 
That  is  the  question? 

Every  true  Latter-day  Saint  will  not  only  whisper  but  proclaim  that 
"a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  children  of  men." 
I  most  sincerely  bear  witness  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  that 
marvelous  work. 


Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye 
serve  him  with  all  your  heart,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand 
blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day. 

With  faith,  charity  and  love  in  our  hearts  let  us  press  ever  onward 
inspired  by  the  hope  and  assurance  that — 

There  shall  come  a  time  when  brotherhood  shows  stronger 

Than  the  narrow  bonds  which  now  distract  the  world, 

When  cannons  roar  and  trumpets  blare  no  longer, 

And  the  ironclad  rusts,  and  battle  flags  are  furled; 

When  the  bars  of  creed  and  speech  and  race,  which  sever 

Shall  be  fused  in  one  humanity  forever. 

That  God  may  give  everyone  a  desire  to  help  hasten  that  day  by  ex- 
ample as  well  as  by  precept,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


We  are  honored  this  morning  by  the  presence  of  Dr.  James  E. 
West,  celebrating  his  thirtieth  year  as  Chief  Scout  Executive  of  the  Boy 
Scouts  of  America.  In  his  time  nine  and  a  half  millions  of  boys  have  been 
members ;  now  one  and  a  half  million  Boy  Scouts  are  enrolled.  We  have 
in  the  L.  D.  S.  Church  25,000  Scouts.  Tomorrow  at  the  Hotel  Utah  there 
will  be  a  conference  of  Utah  Scout  leaders. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "Let  the  Mountains  Shout  for  Joy" — 
Evan  Stephens. 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  Archie  R.  Boyack,  President 
of  the  Big  Horn  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 


PRESS  EVER  ONWARD 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


THIRD  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Sunday  after- 
noon, April  6,  at  2  o'clock. 

Again  the  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity ;  in  addition, 
the  Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  was  filled  to 
capacity,  and  thousands  of  others  congregated  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds, 
where  they  listened  to  the  services  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the 
Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session  of  the 
Conference — Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Director ;  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Organist. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  time  has  arrived  to  open  the  sixth  and  last  session  of  this 
General  Conference.  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  presiding  and  he  has 
asked  President  Clark  to  conduct  the  services. 

Again  I  repeat,  through  the  courtesy  of  KSL  and  other  stations 
cooperating,  this  service  is  being  broadcast  to  four  stations  in  Idaho, 
one  in  Price,  and  one  in  Cedar  City.  The  Presidents  of  Stakes  in  these 
localities  have  arranged  meetings  in  various  of  their  Ward  meeting 
houses.  We  have  already  heard  from  some  of  them  saying  they  are  having 
a  good  time.  A  direct  wire  from  the  Tabernacle  here  to  the  Los  Angeles 
Tabernacle  is  also  carrying  the  services  to  that  area. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this  afternoon  President  Grant  and 
his  two  Counselors,  the  full  quorum  of  the  Twelve,  all  of  the  First  Seven 
Presidents  of  Seventies,  and  all  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  For  a  Prophet." 

Elder  J.  Percy  Goddard,  President  of  the  Liberty  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "By  Babylon's  Wave" — Gounod. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  been  very  happy  during  this  Conference,  barring  the  anxiety 
that  I  have  felt  and  feel,  knowing  that  I  would  be  expected  to  speak  and 
to  lead  in  intelligent,  profitable  thought  the  many  people  assembled 
and  those  who  are  on  the  air  listening.  The  thought  of  it  is  almost  ap- 
palling. If  it  were  not  for  the  faith  that  I  have  in  the  Lord  through 
His  Spirit  coming  to  my  assistance,  I  feel  that  I  would  wilt. 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 


A  MANIFESTATION  OF  INTEREST 

I  can  say  that  my  feelings  have  been  in  perfect  accord  with  the  busi- 
ness that  has  been  transacted  in  this  Conference,  and  with  all  that  has 
gone  before.  I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  that 
has  been  upon  us  in  these  various  meetings.  The  attendance  at  each 
session,  including  the  Priesthood  meeting  held  in  this  building  last  eve- 
ning, has  far  exceeded  the  seating  capacity.  Many  hundreds  of  people 
have  had  to  stand.  One  of  the  Mission  Presidents  told  me  last  evening 
after  the  meeting  that  he  had  to  stand  all  through  the  Priesthood  meet- 
ing, that  he  could  not  find  an  unoccupied  seat. 

This  is  a  glorious  condition.  It  gives  great  satisfaction  to  the  Presi- 
dency of  this  Church,  the  General  Authorities,  and  I  am  sure  it  is  pleasing 
to  the  Lord, — a  manifestation  of  interest  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  in 
which  we  are  engaged. 

JOY  IN  THE  MINISTRY 

I  have  enjoyed  my  labors  as  much  during  the  last  six  months  in  the 
ministry  as  at  any  other  period  of  my  life  and  experience.  I  rejoice  in 
going  out  into  the  Stakes  of  Zion  and  the  Missions  and  meeting  leaders  of 
the  people,  and  the  faithful  of  the  people  who  attend  our  conference 
meetings.  I  find  as  I  get  better  acquainted  with  members  of  the  Church 
and  leaders  of  the  Church,  that  my  love  for  them  increases,  and  my  ap- 
preciation for  them  and  for  the  Gospel,  increases  also.  The  only  differ- 
ence between  the  love  that  I  have  for  these  leaders  and  the  other  part  of 
the  Church  membership  is  that  I  do  not  know  the  others  so  well.  There 
are  just  as  good  men  and  women,  they  are  numbered  by  the  thousands 
in  this  Church,  whose  acquaintance  I  do  not  have,  who  are  just  as  good 
and  faithful  as  those  with  whom  I  am  acquainted. 

I  love  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  hope  that  they  can  give  me  their 
love  and  support  in  return.  I  believe  I  have  the  confidence  of  the  people. 
I  am  trying  to  live  my  religion  as  a  teacher,  to  set  a  good  example,  and  to 
encourage  others  to  live  their  religion,  and  to  faithfully  serve  the  Lord. 

REVELATION  BROUGHT  TRUE  KNOWLEDGE  OF  GOD 

In  speaking  of  the  Gospel  I  have  in  mind  now  what  the  Lord  said  of 
ancient  Israel: 

I  am  the  Lord  thy  God,  which  have  brought  thee  out  of  the  land 
of  Egypt,  out  of  the  house  of  bondage. 

Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me. 

Thou  shalt  not  make  unto  thee  any  graven  image,  or  any  likeness 
of  anything  that  is  in  heaven  above,  or  that  is  in  the  earth  beneath, 
or  that  is  in  the  water  under  the  earth. 

Thou  shalt  not  bow  down  thyself  to  them,  or  serve  them:  for  I 
the  Lord  thy  God  am  a  jealous  God. 

I  am  sure  that  it  is  displeasing  to  our  Heavenly  Father  that  His 
sons  and  daughters  should  worship  anything  else,  or  in  any  other  way 
than  that  which  He  has  designed  and  taught.  The  scriptures  are  replete 
with  information  pertaining  to  God  the  eternal  Father,  His  existence, 


ELDER  GEORGE  P.  RICHARDS 


113 


His  attributes,  His  personality,  and  qualities,  so  that  there  should  be  no 
question  in  the  minds  of  intelligent  men  and  women  as  to  what  kind  of  a 
being  the  God  of  this  world  is,  the  God  of  Abraham,  of  Isaac  and  Jacob. 
Yet  the  world  has  been  in  darkness  for  ages,  with  respect  to  the  knowledge 
of  God.  In  His  loving  mercy,  in  the  opening  of  this  Gospel  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times  He  revealed  Himself  anew  to  the  world  of  man- 
kind, He  and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  our  Savior,  appearing  to  the  boy 
Joseph  Smith,  whom  He  raised  up  to  be  a  mighty  prophet  of  the  last  days, 
for  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  and  the  establishment  anew  of  His 
Church  and  kingdom  here  upon  the  earth,  in  preparation  for  the  coming 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  to  reign  as  King  of  Kings  and 
Lord  of  Lords. 

ONE  FATHER  OF  THE  SPIRITS  OF  MEN 

There  is  a  responsibility  on  the  membership  of  this  Church  to 
make  known  to  the  people  of  the  world  this  wonderful  revelation  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son,  as  a  part  of  the  restored  Gospel.  We  are  told  by 
scripture  that  a  belief  in  God  the  eternal  Father  is  vitally  necessary  to 
all  intelligent  beings.  Their  faith  is  centered  in  Him,  and  of  necessity 
they  must  have  a  correct  understanding  of  Him,  and  know  Him  as  He 
is,  a  glorified  and  exalted  being  in  whose  image  and  likeness  we  are  in 
very  deed  born  sons  and  daughters  of  God. 

Furthermore  we  have  had  fathers  of  our  flesh  which  corrected  us, 
and  we  gave  them  reverence.  Shall  we  not  much  rather  be  in  subjec- 
tion unto  the  Father  of  spirits,  and  live? 

Many  fathers  of  the  flesh,  but  one  Father  of  the  spirits  of  all  men, 
the  eternal  Father  of  us  all.  So  every  man  and  every  woman  under  the 
sound  of  my  voice  is  either  a  son  of  God  or  a  daughter  of  God.  He  is  our 
eternal  Father.  And  as  things  earthly  are  typical  of  things  heavenly,  when 
we  think  of  Father  we  naturally  think  of  Mother.  We  think  of  being 
born.  So  we  have  been  born  of  our  heavenly  parents  in  the  spirit,  and 
in  our  spirit  birth  have  inherited  attributes  and  qualities  of  a  God-like 
character.  What  a  noble  parentage !  What  a  noble  ancestry  we  are  of  ! 
What  manner  of  men  and  women  ought  we  to  be?  In  the  language  of 
the  scripture  we  might  say: 

Look  unto  the  rock  whence  ye  are  hewn,  and  to  the  hole  of  the 
pit  whence  ye  are  digged. 

The  love  which  our  Father  in  heaven  bears  for  us  is  divine  love,  a 
perfect  love.  Jesus  said : 

For  God  so  loved  the  world  that  He  gave  His  only  begotten  Son, 
that  whosoever  believeth  in  Him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlast- 
ing life. 

He  gave  His  Son  to  a  life  of  sorrow  and  to  a  death  upon  the  cross. 
What  that  meant  of  sorrow  to  the  Son  and  to  the  Father  we  shall  never 
fully  know  while  we  are  in  mortality.  We  read  how  that  in  the  Garden 
of  Gethsemane  He  sweat  great  drops  of  blood,  so  great  was  the  anguish 
of  His  soul  because  of  the  wickedness  and  abominations  of  the  people. 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

THE  GREATEST  GIFT 

Then  we  read  about  His  death  upon  the  cross.  His  was  the  greatest 
gift  that  ever  was  given.  It  is  a  proof  of  love,  divine,  the  Father  for  His 
children,  a  sacrifice,  the  greatest  ever  made;  a  service,  the  greatest  ever 
rendered.  And  as  He  has  loved  us  and  done  so  much  for  us  in  providing 
for  our  salvation,  He  has  asked  us,  in  return,  to  love  Him,  even  with  all 
our  heart,  soul  and  mind,  and  then  to  love  one  another,  our  neighbor  as 
ourselves.  If  we  could  obey  those  two  commandments,  what  peace  there 
would  be  in  the  earth.  If  all  mankind  could  live  up  to  those  two  principles 
there  would  be  no  more  bloodshed,  no  widows  and  orphans  caused 
through  wars  rampant  in  the  nations  of  the  earth.  There  would  be  no 
hatred  in  our  souls,  but  love  would  abound. 

That  is  what  our  Father  in  heaven  would  like  of  us  above  all  other 
things,  that  we  love  Him  first,  and  that  we  love  one  another.  In  our 
home  in  heaven  there  was  peace,  there  was  love.  After  Lucifer  was  cast 
out,  and  those  with  him,  there  was  no  more  contention.  When  we  come 
to  earth,  though  our  recollection  of  the  past  is  withheld,  why  should  we 
not  love  one  another  here  ? 

Do  we  hate  those  men  in  high  places  responsible  for  war  and  blood- 
shed, killing  and  maiming  and  making  widows  and  orphans?  If  we  love 
them  as  we  should  we  would  not  hate  them.  The  mother  doesn't  hate  the 
wayward  son  or  the  wayward  daughter.  A  mother's  love,  next  to  the 
love  that  our  Father  in  heaven  bears  for  us,  is  the  kind  of  love  that  should 
actuate  us,  one  toward  another.  Whether  we  are  in  the  Church  or  out  of 
the  Church,  we  are  our  Father's  children,  all  of  us,  and  the  Lord  loves 
us,  and  no  doubt  sorrows  over  the  sins  and  the  wickedness  of  some,  and 
rejoices  over  the  righteousness  of  others. 

SACRIFICE  REWARDED 

I  trust  and  pray,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  may  live  up  to  the  light 
of  the  Gospel  which  has  come  to  us,  for  it  is  a  glorious  truth.  It  is  appeal- 
ing. There  is  no  question  but  what  the  reward  in  this  life  and  the  life  to 
come  will  amply  pay  for  every  sacrifice  that  we  make.  And  brethren  and 
sisters,  if  we  ever  lose  out  in  the  end,  and  meet  with  disappointment,  it 
will  be  because  we  have  not  done  the  things  which  we  know  that  we 
ought  to  do,  and  that  we  have  done  things  that  we  know  we  ought  not 
to  do.  In  other  words,  if  we  live  up  to  the  light  which  we  have  we  will 
not  meet  with  condemnation,  but  with  the  favor  of  heaven. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  so  live  and  to  labor,  in  return  for  the  love 
which  is  extended  unto  us  by  our  Father  in  Heaven,  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ.  May  we  return  love  and  show  by  our  actions  that  we  do 
love  the  Lord,  and  let  us  show  by  our  actions  that  we  do  love  our  fellow- 
men,  and  that  we  are  going  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  this  end,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  A  WIDTSOE 


115 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  We  welcome  with  all  our  hearts  Brother 
Harold  B.  Lee  and  the  other  brethren  who  have  been  called  to  new 
service  in  the, Church  and  Kingdom  of  God. 

This  has  been  a  profitable  and  inspiring  Conference.  The  sweet 
spirit  of  the  Lord  has  brooded  over  the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  from 
the  first  when  President  Grant  delivered  his  remarkably  impressive  op- 
ening address. 

I  desire  to  speak  to  a  simple  and  well  worn  subject,  one  which  has 
been  touched  upon  by  every  speaker  at  this  splendid  Conference,  and 
which  of  necessity  is  approached  in  every  Stake  or  Ward  Conference. 
Yet,  it  bears  repetition. 

TOLERENCE  FOR  THE  OPINIONS  OF  OTHERS 

I  have  chosen  a  theme  which  seems  vital  in  the  lives  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Among  the  principles  of  beauty  and  power  which  make  up  the 
Gospel,  none  is  more  conducive  to  peace  than  the  Mormon  doctrine 
of  tolerance.  We  are  taught  to  give  due  respect  to  the  opinions  and 
mode  of  life  of  our  fellow  beings.  This  accepted  principle  was  formulat- 
ed concisely  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith : 

We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshipping  Almighty  God  according 
to  the  dictates  of  our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the  same 
privilege,  let  them  worship  how,  where  or  what  they  may.  (11th 
Article  of  Faith.) 

That  is,  men  may  believe  and  act  as  seems  to  them  good  so  long  as 
they  do  not  infringe  upon  our  rights  or  transgress  the  law.  They  may 
cherish  false  beliefs,  yet  we  mingle  with  them  in  friendliness.  Thereby 
the  association  of  mankind  is  made  tolerable. 

THE  CHURCH  HAS  SUFFERED  FROM  INTOLERANCE 

We  of  this  Church  have  reason  to  be  tolerant ;  for  we  know  the  law- 
less cruelty  of  intolerance.  For  over  a  century  we  suffered  a  religious 
persecution  of  Satanic  fury,  unparalleled  in  modern  times,  and  seldom 
if  ever  surpassed  in  former  days.  Often  helpless  in  the  face  of  intoler- 
ant fury,  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  only  been  able  to  say,  "Father,  for- 
give them,  for  they  know  not  what  they  do."  If  the  Lord  had  not  been 
our  captain,  and  truth  our  chart,  men  would  long  since  have  destroyed 
the  Church.  We  know  that  tolerance  is  of  God ;  intolerance  of  the  devil. 
We  are  and  must  remain  a  tolerant  people. 

TRUE  MEANING  OF  TOLERANCE 

However,  the  true  meaning  of  tolerance  is  often  misunderstood. 
Tolerance  has  its  distinct  limits.    To  allow  our  neighbors  the  privilege 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  6  Third  Day 

to  believe  and  live  as  they  choose,  under  the  law,  does  not  mean  that  to 
keep  peace  we  must  live  as  they  do. 

Tolerance  is  not  conformity  to  the  world's  view  and  practices.  We 
must  not  surrender  our  beliefs  to  get  along  with  people,  however  be- 
loved or  influential  they  may  be.  Too  high  a  price  may  be  paid  for  social 
standing  or  even  for  harmony.  Appeasement  was  recently  tried  in  the 
world,  and  the  most  hideous  war  of  history  is  the  result.  The  Gospel 
rests  upon  eternal  truth ;  and  truth  can  never  be  deserted  safely.  Allegi- 
ance to  truth,  as  well  as  tolerance,  is  of  the  Lord. 

True,  there  are  matters  of  minor  importance  to  which  all  may  wisely 
conform.  Such  are  the  constantly  changing  conventions  or  fashions  in 
dress,  speech  and  etiquette.  Whether  a  woman  wears  her  hair  long  or 
short,  or  a  man  a  soft  or  a  starched  collar,  are  not  vital  matters.  They 
do  not  violate  the  law  of  God,  and  no  one  takes  them  seriously.  Wisdom 
dictates  to  all  in  the  words  of  Pope : 

Be  not  the  first  on  whom  the  new  is  tried 
Nor  yet  the  last  to  lay  the  old  aside. 

DANGER  IN  NOT  LIVING  UP  TO  STANDARDS 

But,  deviations,  however  slight,  from  the  straight  Gospel  path,  be- 
come major  matters  in  life.  Whatever  is  contrary  to  the  doctrine  or 
regulations  of  the  Church  or  in  violation  of  our  covenants  with  the  Lord, 
in  baptism,  in  the  Temple,  or  elsewhere,  is  of  evil  and  therefore  should 
be  spurned.  .It  is  dangerous  to  play  fast  and  loose  with  truth  and  our 
sacred  covenants.  Spiritual  and  moral  disintegration  begins  when  we 
sacrifice  truth  to  conform  with  the  way  of  the  crowd.  The  creeping  evil 
that  then  sets  in  begets  indifference  and  often  ends  in  apostasy.  It  leads 
to  certain  unhappiness. 

Clearly,  in  a  world  of  many  men  of  many  minds,  it  requires  at 
times  some  courage  to  be  true  to  our  convictions.  The  non-smoker,  or 
non-drinker,  or  non-card  player,  may  feel  alone  in  a  smoking  company, 
or  in  a  cocktail  or  card  or  gambling  party.  The  coward  within  us 
always  shrinks  from  being  a  target  for  observation  or  criticism.  In 
fact,  however,  the  person  who  stands  by  his  honest  convictions  wins  the 
respect  of  all  decent  people.  Honest  courage  is  always  admired.  On 
the  contrary,  he  who  is  untrue  to  his  professions,  to  win  the  favor  of 
the  crowd,  is  held  in  contempt,  often  unspoken  but  equally  real,  by  his 
associates.  Smoking  or  drinking  young  men  of  Latter-day  Saint  par- 
entage are  seldom  welcomed  by  smoking  and  drinking  employers.  He 
who  is  untrue  to  his  convictions  may  fail  in  his  business  integrity.  So 
reasons  the  wise  man  of  the  world. 

THE  GOSPEL  OF  CHRIST  FOUNDED  IN  TRUTH 

Latter-day  Saints  have  no  reason  to  forsake  their  beliefs  for 
the  plaudits  of  the  crowd.  Rather,  there  should  be  a  vast  gratitude  in 
the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  Gospel  is  founded  in  un- 
shakeable  truth ;  it  sheds  light  upon  that  which  is  dark ;  it  is  unsurpassed 
for  answering  the  deep  questions  of  the  human  soul;  its  authority  to 


ELDER  JOHN  A  WIDTSOE 


117 


act,  the  Priesthood,  sets  this  people  apart  from  all  others  in  their  power 
to  perform  work  for  private  and  public  good.  Every  principle  is 
divinely  devised  for  human  good.  Experience  has  shown  that  men  are 
better  off  for  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  or  paying  tithes  to  the 
Lord,  or  complying  with  any  other  Gospel  practice.  In  the  midst  of 
the  world's  philosophies,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  stands  uncon- 
quered.  We  should  be  so  proud  of  our  membership  in  the  Church  of 
Christ,  that  we  would  refuse,  with  disdain,  to  disobey,  for  public  ac- 
claim or  personal  appetite,  any  principle  of  action  within  the  Church. 

THOSE  VALIANT  FOR  TRUTH  ARE  CONQUERORS 

Latter-day  Saints  should  be  thoroughly  loyal  to  the  course  of  life 
laid  out  in  the  Gospel  plan.  A  milk-and-water  allegiance  kills;  while  a 
passionate  devotion  gives  life  and  soul  to  any  cause  and  its  adherents. 
The  troubles  of  the  world  may  largely  be  laid  at  the  doors  of  those  who 
are  neither  hot  nor  cold ;  who  always  follow  the  line  of  least  resistance ; 
whose  timid  hearts  flutter  at  taking  sides  for  truth.  As  in  the  great 
Council  in  the  heavens,  so  in  the  Church  of  Christ  on  earth,  there  can 
be  no  neutrality.  We  are,  or  we  are  not,  on  the  side  of  the  Lord.  An 
unrelenting  faith,  contemptuous  of  all  compromise,  will  lead  the  Church 
and  every  member  of  it,  to  triumph  and  the  achievement  of  our  high 
destiny. 

The  final  conquerors  of  the  world  will  be  the  men  and  women,  few 
or  many  matters  not,  who  fearlessly  and  unflinchingly  cling  to  truth, 
who  are  able  to  say  no,  as  well  as  yes,  on  whose  lofty  banner  is  inscribed : 
No  compromise  with  error.  At  the  present  moment  it  is  a  flaming  faith 
in  liberty,  a  phase  of  truth,  that  enables  England  to  withstand  her 
enemies  despite  the  rain  of  powder  and  steel. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  EVIL  RAMPANT 

Our  world  is  sick.  Millions  of  men  have  surrendered  or  have  been 
made  to  surrender  to  an  evil  spirit — the  spirit  of  Satan.  Those  who  are 
attacked  with  the  malady  foam  with  a  brutal,  snarling  ferocity.  They 
have  forgotten  the  kingship  of  man;  they  have  descended  below  the 
beasts.  They  invoke  and  use  the  law  of  the  jungle.  The  prince  of 
darkness  has  world-girdling  ambitions.  The  leaders  of  the  nations, 
stupefied  by  the  incredible  prostration  of  our  hard-won  civilization, 
stand  helplessly  among  their  bombs,  airships  and  submarines.  They 
know  that  the  issue  is  not  material,  but  spiritual.  They  know  that  the 
changed  heart  alone  can  restore  peace  to  earth.  In  their  inmost  selves 
they  are  calling  for  men  of  truth,  who  will  not  sell  their  birthright  for 
a  mess  of  pottage,  who  do  not  know  the  meaning  of  compromise.  And 
all  the  world,  the  hosts  of  common  men,  beckon  for  such  leadership. 
Humanity  does  not  care  to  live  in,  and  bring  children  into,  a  world  ruled 
by  ignorance,  hate,  perfidy  and  blasphemy. 

BELIEVERS  IN  CHRIST  THE  ULTIMATE  LEADERS  IN  THE  WORLD 

That  leadership,  the  world's  prime  need,  must  come,  as  we  know, 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

from  those  who  accept  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  who,  courageously 
and  without  apology,  cling  to  its  truth  and  practice.  They  will  be  the 
leaven  in  the  lump ;  they  will  be  the  world's  wonder  workers ;  they  will 
be  the  ultimate  conquerors,  though  they  may  be  but  a  handful  in 
numbers.  Goliath's  man-made  sword  was  no  match  for  David's  faith- 
directed  pebble. 

This  places  a  heavy  burden  upon  us,  members  of  the  restored 
Church  of  Christ ;  the  authorized  holders  of  the  Priesthood ;  the  light- 
bearers  and  truth-givers  of  the  world.  To  assume  leadership  in  pointing 
the  way  to  peace  has  always  been  the  high  commission,  perhaps  the 
highest,  of  the  Church  of  Christ.  In  the  end,  the  world's  peace  de- 
pends on  us.  This  seems  a  stupendous  claim;  we  make  it  humbly;  but, 
the  word  of  the  Lord  does  not  fail.  Out  of  Zion  shall  issue  the  power 
that  will  change  swords  into  plowshares,  and  make  the  earth  a  happy 
dwelling  place  for  men. 

We,  the  members  of  the  Church,  now  far-flung  over  the  earth, 
must  make  and  keep  ourselves  fit  by  obedience  for  the  mission  assigned 
us — the  regeneration  of  the  world.  It  is  a  call  to  every  member  of  the 
Church.  As  we  obey  the  commandments,  so  will  the  strength  of  the 
Church  be.  As  we  fearlessly  live  the  law,  the  influence  of  the  Church 
will  cover  the  earth  and  prepare  it  for  peace.  Delay  and  vexation, 
sorrow  and  bloodshed,  will  overtake  us  if  we  surrender  our  convictions, 
and  enter  into  compromise  with  the  world.  It  is  better  to  observe  the 
law,  even  in  its  lesser  details.  Then  we  shall  have  the  greater  claim  for 
personal  satisfaction  in  the  days  of  our  years. 

All  this  was  said  by  our  Lord,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind.  Shortly 
before  His  sacrificial  death  He  prayed  to  His  Father  for  those  who 
should  remain  after  Him,  to  carry  on  the  work  which  He  had  estab- 
lished. The  burden  of  that  immortal  prayer  was,  that  His  disciples 
should  not  be  taken  out  of  the  world,  for  their  message  was  to  the  world, 
but  that  though  they  were  in  the  world,  they  should  not  be  of  the  world. 

I  pray  not  that  thou  shouldest  take  them  out  of  the  world,  but  that 
thou  shouldest  keep  them  from  evil.  They  are  not  of  the  world,  even 
as  I  am  not  of  the  world.   (John  17:15,  16.) 

That  is  the  problem  of  every  Latter-day  Saint,  especially  as  we 
spread  over  the  earth,  and  as  mankind  calls  for  help:  To  be  in  the 
world,  but  not  of  the  world!  To  be  ever  a  unique  people,  a  peculiar 
people,  in  the  observance  of  righteousness.  They  who  fail  to  do  so, 
will  suffer  cankered  souls,  will  question  the  value  of  life,  and  eventually 
will  face  spiritual  death. 

We  all  look  with  trepidation  into  the  future.  No  land  is  wholly 
safe.  Disaster  may  overtake  any  or  all.  It  is  folly  to  trade  the  perma- 
nent joys  of  the  Gospel  for  man-made,  transient,  unsatisfying  and  often 
injurious  offerings.  Israel  would  show  the  higher  wisdom  if  all  of  us 
laid  away  the  things  that  are  not  in  harmony  with  Gospel  law,  that 
distract  us,  take  our  time,  and  leave  us  empty  when  the  day  is  done ; 
if  every  man  of  us  would  set  his  house  in  order  until  he  could  say  with 
Joshua  of  old,  "As  for  me  and  my  house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord." 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


119 


Today,  as  perhaps  never  before,  the  battle-cry  of  modern  Israel,  the 
people  of  the  Lord,  must  be,  with  respect  to  the  truths  of  the  Gospel : 
"No  Compromise."* 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  give  us  faith,  courage,  clearness  of 
vision,  and  strength  of  will  to  live  His  law,  to  keep  our  covenants,  and 
to  be  wholly  acceptable  servants  in  His  great  cause,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

All  of  the  brethren  who  have  spoken  have  indicated  there  are  two 
terrors  which  we  up  here  suffer.  One  is  the  anxiety  which  runs  along 
until  we  are  called,  and  the  other  is  the  fear  which  we  have  when  we  are 
called.  We  cannot  relieve  Brother  Lee  of  the  first,  but  we  will  relieve  him 
of  the  second  by  calling  him  now,  following  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  who  has  just  spoken. 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  whom  we  sustained 
this  morning  as  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

This  morning  before  I  came  to  the  meeting  I  wound  my  watch, 
and  when  the  meeting  closed  I  took  it  out  to  look  at  the  time.  I  dis- 
covered that  it  had  stopped  at  twenty  minutes  after  ten.  I  was  numb 
and  dumb.  I  am  not  sure,  when  I  finish  here,  that  I  shall  not  find  my 
watch  completely  put  out  of  commission. 

THOUGHTS  STIRRED  BY  NEW  ASSIGNMENT 

Since  nine  o'clock  last  night  I  have  lived  an  entire  lifetime  in 
retrospect  and  in  prospect.  I  spent  a  sleepless  night.  I  never  closed  my 
eyes  one  moment,  and  neither  would  you  if  you  had  been  in  my  place. 
Throughout  the  night,  as  I  thought  of  this  most  appalling  and  soul- 
stirring  assignment,  there  kept  coming  to  me  the  words  of  the  Apostle 
Paul,  that  he  spoke  in  explanation  of  the  human  qualities  that  were  to 
be  found  in  the  Lord  and  Savior : 

For  we  have  not  an  high  priest  which  cannot  be  touched  with  the 
feeling  of  our  infirmities;  but  was  in  all  points  tempted  like  as  we  are, 
yet  without  sin. 

Let  us  therefore  come  boldly  unto  the  throne  of  grace,  that  we 
may  obtain  mercy,  and  find  grace  to  help  in  time  of  need. 

One  could  not  have  listened  to  the  soul-stirring  testimony  of  Presi- 
dent Grant,  in  bearing  testimony  as  to  his  feelings  when  he  was  called 
to  the  apostleship,  or  his  experiences  in  calling  others  to  similar  posi- 
tions, without  realizing  that  he  has  been  close  to  his  Heavenly  Father 
in  this  experience.   Therefore  I  shall  take  the  word  of  the  Apostle 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


Paul.  I  shall  come  boldly  unto  the  throne  of  grace,  and  ask  for  mercy 
and  His  grace  to  help  me  in  my  time  of  need.  With  that  help  I  cannot 
fail.  Without  it  I  cannot  succeed. 


Since  my  childhood  I  have  looked  upon  these  men  as  the  greatest 
men  on  the  face  of  the  earth,  and  now  the  contemplation  of  an  intimate 
association  with  them,  is  overwhelming  and  beyond  my  comprehension. 

I  thank  God  today  for  my  parentage.  My  father  and  mother  are 
listening,  either  in  this  great  assembly  or  on  the  radio,  if  perchance 
they  did  not  get  into  this  meeting.  I  think  perhaps  this  is  my  way  of 
paying  tribute  to  the  two  family  names  they  gave  me  at  my  birth, 
Bingham  and  Lee.  I  trust  I  shall  not  disgrace  those  names.  I  have 
been  blessed  with  a  splendid  father  and  a  grand  and  lovely  mother,  one 
who  didn't  display  often  her  affection,  but  showed  her  love  in  tangible 
ways  that,  as  a  child,  I  came  early  to  recognize  as  true  mother  love. 

As  just  a  high  school  boy  I  went  away  on  a  high  school  debating 
team.  We  won  the  debate.  I  came  back  and  called  mother  on  the 
telephone  only  to  have  her  say:  "Never  mind,  Son.  I  know  all  about 
it.  I  will  tell  you  when  you  come  home  at  the  end  of  the  week."  When 
I  came  home  she  took  me  aside  and  said :  "When  I  knew  it  was  just 
time  for  this  performance  to  start  I  went  out  among  the  willows  by 
the  creek  side,  and  there,  all  by  myself,  I  remembered  you  and  prayed 
God  you  would  not  fail."  I  have  come  to  know  that  that  kind  of  love 
is  necessary  for  every  son  and  daughter  who  seek  to  achieve  in  this 
world:  My  tribute  to  my  parents. 

Last  night,  when  I  left  here,  as  my  little  family  with  me  kneeled 
down  for  our  family  prayers,  I  tested  their  faith.  I  found  them  true. 
They  have  given  me  their  assurance,  their  strength.  They  are  willing 
to  make  the  sacrifice  and  have  accepted  this  as  their  call,  along  with  me. 
I  have  come  to  know,  in  these  last  few  years,  in  my  brief  service  in  this 
Church,  that  without  such  help  from  a  lovely,  devoted  wife,  willing  to 
sacrifice  and  to  keep  the  home,  no  man  can  hold  a  position  in  this 
Church  and  hope  to  continue  to  serve  as  he  has  been  called.  To  her, 
likewise,  as  she  listens  this  afternoon  and  before  you  I  acknowledge  her 
loveliness,  her  sweetness,  her  devotion  and  sacrifice. 


For  the  last  five  glorious,  strenuous  years,  I  have  labored,  under  a 
call  from  the  First  Presidency,  with  a  group  of  men  in  the  development 
of  and  the  unfolding  of  what  we  have  called  the  Church  Welfare  Plan. 
I  felt  that  I  should  bear  my  testimony  to  you  concerning  that  work  as 
I  close.  It  was  on  April  20th,  1935,  when  I  was  called  to  the  office  of 
the  First  Presidency.  That  was  a  year  before  official  announcement  of 
the  Welfare  Plan  was  made  in  this  Tabernacle.  There,  after  an  entire  half 
day  session,  at  which  President  Grant  and  President  McKay  were 
present,  President  Clark  then  being  in  the  East — they  had  some  com- 
munications with  him,  so  that  all  members  of  the  Presidency  were  in 


A  TRIBUTE  TO  FATHER,  MOTHER,  AND  WIFE 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  CHURCH  WELFARE  PLAN 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


121 


agreement — I  was  astounded  to  learn  that  for  years  there  had  been 
before  them,  as  a  result  of  their  thinking  and  planning  and  as  the  result 
of  the  inspiration  of  Almighty  God,  the  genius  of  the  very  plan  that  is 
being  carried  out  and  was  in  waiting  and  in  preparation  for  a  time  when 
in  their  judgment  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  was  such  that 
they  were  willing  to  follow  the  counsel  of  the  men  who  lead  and  preside 
in  this  Church. 

STRENGTHENED  THROUGH  HUMBLE  PRAYER 

My  humble  place  in  this  program  at  that  time  was  described.  1 
left  there  about  noon-time,  feeling  quite  as  I  do  now.  I  drove  with  my 
car  up  to  the  head  of  City  Creek  Canyon.  I  got  out,  after  I  had  driven  as 
far  as  I  could,  and  I  walked  up  through  the  trees.  I  sought  my  Heavenly 
Father.  As  I  sat  down  to  pore  over  this  matter,  wondering  about  an 
organization  to  be  perfected  to  carry  on  this  work,  I  received  a  testimony, 
on  that  beautiful  spring  afternoon,  that  God  had  already  revealed  the 
greatest  organization  that  ever  could  be  given  to  mankind,  and  that 
all  that  was  needed  now  was  that  that  organization  be  set  to  work,  and 
the  temporal  welfare  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  would  be  safeguarded. 

Yesterday  morning  in  the  special  Welfare  meeting  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  we  saw  a  portrayal  of  what  can  be  accomplished  in  one  Ward 
where  the  Lord's  organization  does  work  according  to  His  plan.  With 
twelve  hundred  times  the  kind  of  demonstration  you  observed  in  that 
Welfare  meeting,  the  present  problem  would  cease  to  be  a  problem. 
We  would  be  living  the  Lord's  way,  for  unless  we  are  one  we  are  not  His. 

god's  will,  made  manifest 

It  was  in  August  of  that  same  year  that  with  Brother  Mark  Austin 
of  the  General  Committee,  I  had  driven  down  to  St.  George  and  then 
back  across  the  mountains  to  Richfield,  for  an  early  morning  meeting. 
At  that  time  there  was  an  upturn  in  business,  so  much  so  that  some  were 
questioning  the  wisdom  of  this  kind  of  activity,  and  why  hadn't  the 
Church  done  it  before  now?  There  came  to  me,  in  that  early  morning 
hour,  a  distinct  impression  that  was  as  real  as  though  someone  had 
spoken  audibly,  and  this  was  the  impression  that  came,  and  has  stayed 
with  me  through  these  years:  There  is  no  individual  in  the  Church 
that  knows  the  real  purpose  for  which  the  program  then  launched  had 
been  intended,  but  hardly  before  the  Church  has  made  sufficient 
preparation,  that  reason  will  be  made  manifest,  and  when  it  comes  it 
will  challenge  every  resource  of  the  Church  to  meet  it.  I  trembled  at 
the  feeling  that  came  over  me.  Since  that  day  that  feeling  has  driven 
me  on,  night  and  day,  hardly  resting,  knowing  that  this  is  God's  will, 
this  is  His  plan.  The  only  thing  necessary  today  is  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  everywhere  recognize  these  men,  who  sit  here  on  the  stand,  as 
the  fountainheads  of  truth,  through  whom  God  will  reveal  His  will, 
that  His  Saints  might  be  preserved  through  an  evil  day. 

A  TESTIMONY  OF  THE  TRUTH  OBTAINED  THROUGH  EXPERIENCE 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  He 


m  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

has  spoken  in  this  clay.  I  know  that  the  work  that  we  are  now  advancing 
and  unfolding  has  still  greater  potential  possihilities.  They  will  come  to 
the  extent  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  learn  to  do  what  they  are  told, 
but  not  until ;  and  some  of  the  grandest  things  yet  to  come  can  only  come 
if  and  when  we  learn  to  listen  to  these  men  who  preside  as  prophets,  seers 
and  revelators. 

I  ask  for  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  as  the  years  come  and  go  I 
may  be  the  witness  that  one  who  is  called  to  this  position  is  expected  to  be. 
Will  you  pray  that  that  might  be  a  fruition  of  my  activity  among  you.  I 
have  loved  you.  I  have  come  to  know  you  intimately.  Your  problems, 
thank  the  Lord,  have  been  my  problems,  because  I  know,  as  you  know, 
what  it  means  to  walk  when  you  have  not  the  money  to  ride.  I  know  what 
it  means  to  go  without  meals  to  buy  a  book  to  go  to  the  University.  I 
thank  God  now  for  these  experiences.  I  have  loved  you  because  of  your 
devotion  and  faith.  God  bless  you  that  you  won't  fail,  but  that  with  this 
Church  you  and  it  will  go  on  to  a  glorious  future,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "I  Waited  for  the  Lord" — 
Mendelssohn.  Soloists :  Ruth  Jensen  Clawson  and  Dorothy  Kimball 
Keddington. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  shall  now  have  the  privilege  of  hearing  a  few  words  from  each 
of  the  brethren  who  this  morning  were  sustained  as  Assistants  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve.  We  shall  first  hear  from  President  Marion  G- 
Romney,  now  President  of  the  Bonneville  Stake. 

ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  I  have  your  sympathy  and 
your  interest,  and  I  now  earnestly  beseech  you  to  give  me  your  active 
faith  that  the  few  moments  I  stand  here  shall  not  be  wasted. 

I  have  stood  before  a  General  Conference  but  once  before  in  my  life. 
That  was  at  the  opening  session  in  October,  1938.  I  was  called  from  the 
audience  and  had  to  find  my  way  through  the  scenery  which  had  been  set 
up  for  the  staging  of  the  oratorio  Elijah.  It  seemed  as  if  it  took  me  an 
eternity  but  as  I  came  on  to  the  stand,  President  Grant  gave  me  an  under- 
standing smile  and  I  was  able  to  get  through  that  opening  prayer. 

RESPONSE  REGARDING  THE  NEW  CALL  TO  SERVICE 

I  respond  to  this  call  as  I  have  responded  to  all  calls  that  have  come 
to  me  in  the  Church,  although  I  do  not  know  just  what  I  shall  be  asked 
to  do.  You  who  were  here  this  morning  had  the  same  notice  that  I  had 
and  know  just  as  much  about  what  the  call  is  as  I  do ;  but  whatever  it  is, 
I  know  as  well  as  did  Nephi  of  old : 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


123 


....  that  the  Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto  the  children  of 
men,  save  He  shall  prepare  a  way  for  them  that  they  may  accomplish 
the  thing  which  He  commandeth  them. 

I  assume  that  this  call  will  mean  some  closer  association  with  the 
leaders  of  the  Church ;  for  that  I  am  very  grateful.  One  of  the  principal 
compensations  that  have  come  to  me  as  a  worker  in  the  Church  has  been 
the  opportunity  to  occasionally  meet  and  shake  hands  with  these  leaders. 
I  accept  them  and  always  have  accepted  them  as  prophets  of  the  living 
God.  I  have  never  been  very  particular  to  determine  when  they  were 
speaking  as  prophets  of  God  and  when  they  were  speaking  as  men.  It 
has  never  occurred  to  me  that  I  had  the  ability  to  determine  that.  It  has 
been  the  rule  of  my  life  to  find  out  if  I  could,  by  listening  closely  to  what 
they  said  and  by  asking  the  Lord  to  help  me  interpret  it,  what  they  had  in 
mind  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  do  and  then  do  it.  I  am  happy  to  say, 
not  boastfully  but  gratefully,  that  I  have  never  hesitated  to  follow  the 
counsel  of  the  Authorities  of  the  Church  even  though  it  crossed  my  social, 
professional  or  political  life.  I  am  very  grateful  now  that  I  may  have 
some  opportunity  to  associate  more  closely  with  them. 

SAFETY  IN  FOLLOWING  THE  COUNSEL  OF  OUR  LEADERS 

Recently  I  have  read  biographies  of  all  the  past  presidents  of  the 
Church  except  President  Snow — his  I  have  not  had  available — as  well  as 
biographies  of  Heber  C.  Kimball,  Parley  P.  Pratt  and  other  leaders  of 
the  Church.  In  all  the  experiences  of  my  life,  including  this  reading,  I 
have  never  learned  of  a  single  instance  where  a  person  who  has  followed 
the  advice  and  counsel  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church  suffered  therefrom. 
On  the  other  hand  the  record  of  the  past  is  full  of  instances  where  men 
have  refused  to  follow  such  advice  and  counsel  and  as  a  result  have  lost 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  the  companionship  of  His  people.  These 
observations  have  persuaded  me  that  the  Church  leaders  speak  under  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord  regardless  of  the  subject  under  consideration, 
and  have  strengthened  my  determination  not  to  try  too  closely  to  discrim- 
inate between  when  they  speak  as  prophets  and  when  they  speak  as  men. 
I  should  like  very  much  to  avoid  the  consequence  of  making  a  mistake 
for  it  is  a  terrible  thing  to  lose  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  One  of  the 
reasons  why  I  have  always  paid  an  honest  tithing,  and  a  little  more,  is 
because  in  one  of  the  revelations  the  Lord  has  said  that  those  who  were 
not  tithed  should  not  have  place  with  those  who  were  tithed,  and  I  have 
desired  with  all  my  heart  to  have  a  place  with  the  faithful  Saints  of  God. 
I  can  understand  now  why  it  was  that  my  father  could  pay  tithing  in  the 
days  of  his  distress.  After  we  were  driven  from  Mexico  I  saw  the  time 
when  he  supported  a  family  of  seven  or  eight  children — ten  at  the  end — 
on  an  income  of  about  $45.00  a  month,  and  I  saw  him  go  to  the  Bishop 
every  month  and  pay  $4.50  tithing.  I  used  to  wonder  why  it  was,  but 
I  know,  now  that  I  have  the  witness  of  the  Gospel  in  my  own  heart. 

God  grant  that  I  may  not  fail  in  whatever  my  responsibilities  may 
be,  and  that  when  I  have  finished  this  calling  I  may  be  worthy  to  be 
released  honorably  and  still  stand  among  the  faithful  of  God's  servants, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen, 


124 

Sunday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  feel  very  humble,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  accepting  this  call  to 
this  new  position.  It  is  a  great  honor,  but  at  the  same  time  I  realize  that 
it  is  a  tremendous  responsibility. 

ADVICE  OF  PARENTS  RECALLED 

A  little  over  forty  years  ago  I  was  at  the  station  in  Ogden  with  my 
parents  and  a  few  friends  just  before  I  boarded  the  train  leaving  for  my 
first  mission.  My  mother  kissed  the  goodbye,  and  as  she  did  so  said,  "My 
boy,  come  home  clean."  I  have  never  forgotten  that  injunction  and  I  hope 
when  I  am  released  from  this  earthly  mission  and  return  to  that  heavenly 
home  where  my  angel  mother  now  is  I  can  say,  as  I  can  say  today, 
"Mother,  I  have  come  home  clean." 

At  that  same  parting  my  father  placed  his  hand  upon  my  shoulder 
and  said,  "Remember,  my  son,  it  doesn't  matter  so  much  where  you  work, 
it  is  how  you  work.  You  go  where  the  Lord  wants  you  and  try  to  say 
what  the  Lord  wants  you  to  say."  I  am  thinking  of  those  parents  today, 
and  I  wish  to  express  my  appreciation  for  them  and  for  my  brothers  and 
sisters  and  my  friends.  I  wish  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  associa- 
tion of  President  Grant  and  his  Counselors  and  the  other  General  Author- 
ities of  the  Church.  I  love  these  men  and  I  am  grateful  for  this  position 
that  will  give  me  the  opportunity  of  more  intimate  association  with  them. 

HAPPINESS  IN  THE  GOSPEL  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 

I  am  more  grateful  than  I  can  express  for  the  Gospel,  for  the  testi- 
mony I  have  of  its  truthfulness.  I  wish  to  testify  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  this  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  every  principle  of 
the  Gospel  has  been  given  to  us  to  make  us  better  and  happier  here  in  this 
life.  God  is  our  Father.  We  are  all  His  children,  and  He  has  given  us 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  to  make  us  happy  here  in  this  life.  "Man  is 
that  he  might  have  joy."  We  do  not  have  to  wait  for  the  other  life,  the  life 
beyond,  to  enjoy  true  happiness ;  if  we  live  the  principles  of  the  Gospel, 
we  can  have  heaven  here  on  this  earth. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  PRESIDENT  GRANT 

I  desire  to  testify  to  you  also  that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and 
is  a  Prophet  of  God  and  that  those  who  have  succeeded  him  have  been 
called  of  God.  I  wish  to  express  also  that  same  testimony  with  refer- 
ence to  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  No  one  can  estimate  the  good  that 
he  has  accomplished  during  his  Presidency.  Think  for  a  minute  of  the 
change  in  the  attitude  of  the  world  today  towards  this  Church  compared 
to  the  time  he  was  called  and  accepted  the  Presidency.  I  testify  especially 
to  his  influence  in  Europe,  which  changed  prejudice  to  admiration.  How 
grateful  I  am  today  that  he  visited  those  good  people  in  the  European 
Mission  and  that  so  many  of  them  heard  his  testimony.    What  a  com- 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


125 


fort  it  is  to  them  in  their  present  sufferings  and  trials  that  they  have  seen 
the  President  of  the  Church  and  spoken  to  him  and  heard  his  testimony. 
I  am  thankful  to  have  the  opportunity  of  laboring  with  them,  still  keep- 
ing in  touch  with  them,  trying  to  encourage  them.  But  their  letters  are 
more  of  an  encouragement  to  me  because  of  their  faith,  I  am  sure,  than 
what  I  can  do  or  say  to  encourage  them  in  their  faith.  God  bless  them. 
I  am  grateful  that  we  have  a  Presidency  and  other  General  Authorities 
who  appreciate  them  and  are  doing  everything  they  can  to  help  them. 

ARMY  CHAPLAINS  APPOINTED 

I  am  also  grateful  that  we  have  men  at  the  head  who  are  taking  an 
interest  in  our  soldier  boys.  God  bless  these  young  soldiers.  The  First 
Presidency  is  very  much  concerned  about  the  kind  of  Latter-day  Saint 
chaplains  that  are  sent  among  them,  and  have  been  very  fortunate  to 
date  in  having  at  least  eight  very  fine  men  appointed ;  and  through  the 
kind  cooperation  of  the  Chief  of  Chaplains  of  the  Army,  Col.  William 
R.  Arnold,  these  chaplains  have  been  placed  where  the  majority  of  our 
Mormon  boys  are  located.  Remember  those  boys  also  in  your  prayers, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  just  as  you  remember  the  missionaries  and 
our  people  abroad. 

God  bless  you,  and  God  bless  me  that  I  may  be  faithful  to  this  added 
responsibility.  I  appreciate  it  with  all  my  heart  as  I  appreciate  the  Gos- 
pel, and  may  I  always  be  worthy  of  the  Spirit  of  God  to  help  me  in  all 
my  work,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  a  little  over  twelve  years  ago  I  was  sur- 
prised, and  I  might  say  shocked,  to  be  called  to  succeed  President  Stephen 
L.  Chipman  as  President  of  the  Alpine  Stake.  I  remember  well  a  les- 
son that  he  taught  me  then.  In  being  released  he  and  his  counselor, 
President  James  H.  Clark,  who  remained  in  our  Stake,  came  to  the  new 
presidency  and  in  assuring  us  of  their  support  said  they  wanted  to  work 
wherever  we  wanted  them  to  work.  And  then  President  Chipman  gave 
us  some  counsel  which  I  have  always  remembered,  and  that  was  to  find 
out  what  was  expected  of  us  and  then  to  do  it  to  the  best  of  our  ability. 
I  have  learned  to  appreciate  that  counsel,  and  while  I  do  not  know  now 
what  is  expected,  (this  is  entirely  new  as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  and 
perhaps  it  is  a  new  departure)  I  assure  my  brethren  and  the  Authorities 
of  the  Church  that  I  will  meet  this  responsibility  to  the  best  of  my  ability 
and  will  give  it  the  best  I  have.  My  one  prayer  is  that  I  may  be  able  to 
make  the  right  adjustment,  that  I  may  not  be  hampered  in  any  way  in 
doing  that  which  shall  be  expected  of  me. 

I  appreciate  my  membership  in  this  Church.  I  am  thankful  for  my 
parents  who  implanted  in  their  children  faith  and  confidence  in  this  great 
work,  and  I  humbly  pray  that  I  may  not  fail  in  this  responsibility,  that 
I  may  be  able  to  measure  up  to  every  requirement  and  to  every  expecta- 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

tion  that  you  and  the  Brethren  who  preside  have  a  right  to  expect.  May 
God  help  us  all  to  sustain  each  other  and  to  uphold  this  work  of  God  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  sure  no  one  can  arise  for  the  first 
time  on  an  occasion  like  this  without  feeling  a  thrill  of  emotion.  I  have 
spent  many  hours  in  the  service  of  our  great  Church  and  I  want  to  testify 
to  you  this  afternoon  that  the  compensation  for  that  service  has  been 
very  great.  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  which  I  have  of  the  Truth.  I 
know  God's  work  has  been  established  on  the  earth;  I  know  that  the 
Gospel  is  true ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God.  I  have  con- 
fidence in  the  leadership  of  this  Church.  If  we  follow  their  advice  we 
shall  never  go  astray.  May  God  bless  them,  and  may  He  bless  us  that  our 
eyes  may  be  open  to  appreciate  and  understand  the  everlasting  things 
which  will  not  perish. 

I  accept  this  responsibility  with  fear  and  trembling,  but  I  have 
confidence  in  the  promises  of  God.   God  bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  come  before  you  in  humility  this  day. 
This  Conference  to  me  has  been  a  thrilling  one.  Friday  morning  as  I 
sat  and  wept  as  President  Grant  was  giving  us  his  testimony,  I  was  so 
grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  that  my  life  had  come  so  close  to  his, 
that  from  my  infancy  I  had  known  him,  that  I  had  been  permitted  to 
travel  with  him,  to  sleep  with  him,  to  be  in  his  home,  to  have  him  in  my 
home.  I  love  him,  and  above  all  other  men  on  earth  I  owe  him  most. 
Each  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  I  know  intimately.  I 
love  every  one  of  them,  I  have  never  seen  one  of  them  do  a  thing  or  heard 
one  of  them  say  a  thing  but  what  was  of  an  uplifting  nature.  And  I  am 
so  grateful  for  my  association  with  them. 

MISSIONARY  WORK  IN  THE  NORTHWESTERN  STATES 

I  am  grateful  to  have  had  the  privilege  to  serve  in  the  mission  field, 
grateful  for  the  opportunity  that  is  mine  now  to  be  in  the  Northwest. 
I  bring  you  the  greetings  of  one  hundred  forty  missionaries,  lovely  young 
men  and  women,  and  eleven  thousand  members  of  the  Church,  Latter-day 
Saints  scattered  all  over  the  Northwest.  It  is  reported  that  President 
Nibley  said,  "You  can  walk  up  to  any  old  bush  in  the  Northwest  and 
give  it  a  kick  and  out  jumps  a  Jack  Mormon."  (Laughter.)  It  is 
strange  how  far  our  people  have  traveled.  We  find  them  everywhere, — 
way  up  in  Alaska,  in  Fairbanks,  100  of  them.  In  Anchorage,  now  that 
the  soldiers  are  gathering  there,  there  will  be  many  of  them.    In  Ft. 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


127 


Lewis  and  Camp  Murray  there  are  over  a  thousand  of  our  boys  that 
have  come  from  Idaho  points.  We  have  been  holding  meetings  with 
them,  fine,  clean,  lovely  young  men,  and  it  has  been  a  joy  to  be  with  them. 
We  have  there  too  the  careless  ones,  but  there  are  the  fine  ones — true 
Latter-day  Saints.  Their  example  has  been  glorious  and  lovely. 

EXAMPLE  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

I  had  an  accident  going  up  into  the  Northwest  with  my  automobile, 
and  had  it  fixed,  and  after  the  garage  man  had  finished  I  handed  him  a 
check  in  payment  of  $60.00.  He  took  the  check  and  looked  at  it,  on  a 
Salt  Lake  City  bank.  He  said,  "You  are  a  Mormon  ?"  I  said,  "Yes." 
He  said,  "I  will  take  your  check."  I  could  not  have  done  that  in  Salt 
Lake  City.  (Laughter.)  Why  could  I  do  that?  Because  of  the  nature 
of  our  people  who  are  living  in  the  Northwest — the  true  Latter-day 
Saints.  They  have  lived  a  life  that  means  so  much,  and  this  little  poem 
by  Whitney  Montgomery  exemplifies  their  lives : 

I  knelt  to  pray  when  day  was  done, 
And  prayed,  "Oh  Lord,  bless  everyone. 
Lift  from  each  saddened  heart  the  pain 
And  let  the  sick  be  well  again." 

And  when  I  woke  another  day 
And  carelessly  went  on  my  way, 
The  whole  day  long  I  did  not  try 
To  wipe  a  tear  from  any  eye. 
I  did  not  try  to  share  the  load 
Of  any  brother  on  my  road. 
I  didn't  even  go  to  see 
The  sick  man  just  next  door  to  me. 

Yet  once  again  when  day  was  done, 
I  prayed,  "Oh  Lord,  bless  everyone." 
But  as  I  prayed,  into  my  ear 
There  came  a  voice  that  whispered  clear. 
"Pause,  hypocrite,  before  you  pray, 
Whom  have  you  tried  to  bless  today? 
God's  sweetest  blessings  always  go 
By  hands  that  serve  Him  here  below." 

And  then  I  hid  my  face  and  cried, 
"Forgive  me,  God,  for  I  have  lied. 
Let  me  but  live  another  day 
And  I  will  live  the  way  I  pray." 

Truly  that  has  been  the  situation  in  the  Northwest.  This  people 
love  President  Nibley  and  the  brethren  who  have  presided  there.  It  is 
a  lovely  mission  and  people. 

THE  CALL  TO  NEW  DUTIES 

Now  with  respect  to  this  call  that  has  come  to  me  here  today — as  the 
others  have  said,  it  was  a  complete  surprise.  I  do  not  know  what  it  means, 
but  these  Brethren  have  never  touched  my  life  but  what  it  has  turned 
into  a  blessing,  and  I  am  grateful  to  do  anything  that  I  can.  I  do  not 
know  just  what  it  means  to  be  an  Assistant  to  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  6  Third  Day 

Apostles,  but  I  am  glad  there  are  twelve  men  in  that  Quorum  to  give  me 
a  going  over  and  help  me  out. 

God  bless  us  all  to  really  appreciate  what  this  Church  stands  for  and 
what  it  means,  that  we  may  be  true  to  it,  that  we  may  sustain  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  and  each  other  in  our  lives,  is  my  prayer  in  Jesus'  name. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  understand  that  if  my  voice  is  weak,  it  can  be  arranged  with  this 
amplifying  equipment  so  that  it  will  be  strong. 


HAPPINESS  EXPRESSED  IN  ATTENDING  CONFERENCE 

I  am  very  happy  indeed  to  be  here  to  extend  to  you  good  people  and 
to  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  my  prayers  and  love  and  blessings  at  the 
close  of  this  Conference.  It  seems  to  me  that  all  during  my  life  since  I 
first  became  an  Apostle,  way  back  when  I  was  twenty-six  years  of  age — 
so  of  course  I  have  had  almost  sixty  years  of  it — that  every  Conference  is 
a  little  bit  better  than  the  previous  one,  but  it  seems  to  me  that  this  has 
been  the  best  that  we  have  ever  had  up  to  date,  and  I  am  grateful  for  it. 
We  certainly  have  never  had  anything  to  compare  with  the  attendance 
Friday  and  Saturday  at  any  other  Friday  or  Saturday  session  of  Confer- 
ence that  I  have  attended.  The  people  filled  this  building  at  each  of  our 
sessions. 

I  was  very  much  disappointed  not  to  have  the  privilege  of  attending 
the  Priesthood  meeting  six  months  ago,  but  I  was  very  happy  to  be  here 
last  night,  and  it  was  a  wonderful  sight,  and  a  marvelous  portion  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  was  present  with  us.  I  rejoiced  in  having  the  oppor- 
tunity of  speaking  to  the  people.  I  was  a  little  bit  afraid  that  perhaps  I 
got  a  little  bit  too  anxious  when  I  pounded  the  stand,  and  maybe  if  my 
doctor  were  here  I  would  get  a  scolding,  but  I  want  you  to  know  that 
although  my  improvement  is  very  slow,  each  and  every  day  I  believe  I 
can  say  truthfully,  when  people  ask  me  how  I  am :  "A  little  better  than 
yesterday." 

CONDITION  OF  HEALTH  TRYING 

I  am  perfectly  willing  to  go  along  as  slowly  as  the  Lord  wants,  but 
the  quicker  I  get  so  that  I  can  talk  faster  and  get  more  accustomed  to 
these  false  teeth,  the  better  I  will  like  it.  (Laughter.) 

I  am  free  to  confess  that  I  do  not  like  the  sound  of  my  own  voice 
worth  a  cent.  (Laughter.) 

I  am  very  sorry,  after  laboring  more  diligently,  I  believe,  than  any- 
body else  ever  did  to  try  to  learn  to  sing  a  song,  that  I  cannot  sing  any 
more.  But  I  have  been  practicing  bass  sitting  next  to  Brother  McKay 
here  today,  and  I  have  concluded  that  I  had  better  join  the  bass  choir, 
(Laughter)  and  say  goodbye  to  the  lead. 

Of  course  it  has  been  quite  a  trial  to  me,  spending  hours  without 
sleeping  every  night,  that  when  I  am  awake  in  the  night  I  cannot  sing  to 
myself,  which  would  help  me  out  a  good  deal,  but  I  have  not  been  able  to 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


129 


do  so.  I  am  inclined  to  think,  knowing  from  my  experience  years  ago 
when  I  suffered  intensely  from  insomnia  and  was  ordered  to  go  to  the 
Coast,  or  I  might  go  crazy  for  lack  of  sleep,  that  I  can  always  sleep  in 
California  and  Arizona  on  the  sea  level.  I  think  that  I  shall  go  away 
from  home  now  for  a  short  time  in  the  hope  of  improving  more  rapidly 
than  I  have  improved  since  I  came  from  California. 

CAUSES  FOR  GRATITUDE 

I  have  not  the  language  with  which  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the 
people  for  their  faith  and  their  prayers.  I  know  that  some  people  thought 
I  never  would  be  able  to  use  my  arm  again  or  my  left  leg,  but  I  can  use 
them  pretty  well.  I  feel  well,  and  I  am  very  happy  in  having  a  couple 
of  Counselors  who  can  do  all  the  work  that  I  ought  to  do,  and  all  that  I 
have  to  do  is  to  sign  my  name  and  let  it  go  at  that.  I  have  Brother  An- 
derson tell  me  what  is  in  the  letter  in  just  a  word  or  two,  and  then  I  sign 
my  name. 

I  have  been  very,  very  grateful  for  the  attendance  at  our  meetings, 
and  I  wish  to  leave  with  the  people  my  faith  and  my  prayers  for  their 
welfare.  I  would  like  to  say  to  you  good  people  that  the  Lord  never 
makes  any  promises  but  what  He  fulfills  them,  and  He  has  promised  that 
when  we  do  His  will  He  will  bless  us,  that  He  will  guide  us,  that  He  will 
help  us,  and  I  am  anxious  always  to  try  to  get  the  Latter-day  Saints 
to  do  the  will  of  the  Lord. 

ANTHONY  W.  IVINS'  CALL  TO  MEXICO 

I  am  going  to  tell  you  a  little  experience.  I  was  one  of  the  com- 
mittee that  recommended  my  cousin  Anthony  W.  Ivins  to  go  to  Mexico, 
and  it  was  a  great  shock  to  me  to  do  so,  because  I  was  heavily  involved.  I 
was  receiving  25  per  cent  per  annum  on  an  investment  in  a  cattle  ranch, 
that  I  had  refused  time  and  again  to  take  $18,750  for  my  $12,500  in- 
terest; but  you  know  that  little  $12,500  paid  interest  at  6  per  cent  on 
$50,000  of  my  debts,  and  gave  me  1  per  cent  over.  I  was  alarmed  about 
having  my  cousin  go  to  Mexico,  and  I  had  refused,  as  I  say,  $18,750  for 
my  interest  in  this  ranch.  When  he  had  to  leave  the  ranch,  we  could  not 
find  anybody  who  wanted  it,  and  we  got  60  cents  on  the  dollar.  We 
made  a  very  handsome  sacrifice,  but  in  the  kind  providences  of  the  Lord, 
matters  pertaining  to  my  affairs  changed  immediately,  and  I  soon  made 
up  the  loss,  and  the  Lord  blessed  him  down  in  Mexico.  He  made  a  nice 
little  sale  there  of  a  few  million  acres  of  land  to  Mr.  McCornick,  Mr. 
Wood,  Mr.  Hagenbarth  and  others,  and  got  a  nice  little  commission  of 
$40,000,  and  he  paid  $2,000  tithing  down  there,  and  $2,000  to  Bishop 
Empey  here.  He  died  thinking  that  I  had  supposed  that  all  he  had  made 
was  $20,000,  because  he  told  the  Bishop :  "You  must  not  say  anything 
about  this,  I  just  kind  of  thought  I  would  like  to  pay  some  tithing  up 
here."  And  so  I  did  not  give  it  away  to  my  cousin.  The  Bishop  had 
never  dreamed  of  such  a  thing  as  that  Tone  would  not  tell  me  about  it. 
Otherwise,  I  suppose  that  he  would  not  have  told  me. 

But  the  Lord  blessed  him  and  magnified  him,  and  I  want  you  to 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  6  Third  Day 

know  that  as  plain  as  any  words  that  were  ever  spoken  to  me  in  my  life 
I  heard,  when  I  was  feeling  very  blue — blue  as  indigo,  as  the  saying  is — ■ 
about  his  going,  I  heard  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple :  "He  is  going  where 
the  Lord  wants  him  to  go,  and  you  shall  have  the  pleasure  of  welcoming 
him  back  into  this  Temple  as  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  of  this 
last  dispensation."  I  turned  my  head  so  that  my  companions  could  not 
see  me,  and  I  shed  tears  of  gratitude  for  the  blessing  that  was  coming  to 
my  cousin. 

He  went  there  and  he  made  a  marvelous  record,  and  that  statement 
to  me  was  fulfilled.  Finally  my  associates,  as  near  as  I  could  judge,  were 
all  very  anxious  for  him  to  be  chosen  as  one  of  my  counselors. 

The  Lord  always  rewards  us  and  blesses  us. 

A  PROPHECY  FULFILLED 

Never  but  once  in  all  my  life  have  I  stood  up  in  a  meeting  and 
prophesied  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  once  was 
many,  many  years  ago  up  in  Idaho,  at  Paris.  I  was  preaching  that  we 
should  judge  things  not  by  the  exception  but  by  the  general  average,  and 
that  the  most  prosperous,  the  most  successful,  the  best  financial  men 
were  those  that  were  honest  with  God.  And  it  seemed  as  though  a  voice 
said  to  me :  "You  lie,  you  lie.  You  will  never  live  to  pay  your  debts,  al- 
though you  have  been  an  honest  tithe-payer."  If  I  had  had  a  bucket  of 
cold  water  poured  over  me,  it  could  not  have  made  a  greater  impression. 

I  stopped  a  moment,  then  I  said,  "I  prophesy  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  that  what  I  have  said  to  you  people  is  true,  and  that 
the  Lord  rewards  us  when  we  do  our  duty,  and  I  prophesy  that  although 
I  am  a  ruined  man  in  the  estimation  of  many  men,  I  will  yet  live  to  pay 
my  debts."  And  I  was  just  $91,000  worse  off  than  nothing,  had  two 
wives  to  support  and  the  children  of  a  dead  wife.  But  from  that  very 
day  my  prophecy  was  fulfilled.  The  Lord  blessed  everything  I  touched, 
and  in  only  three  short  years  I  was  even  with  the  world,  financially 
speaking. 

BLESSING  AND  TESTIMONY 

I  leave  my  testimony  with  you  that  this  is  God's  work,  and  that  it 
is  by  men  responding  as  these  five  men  have  done  that  the  work  pro- 
gresses. They  say  they  do  not  know  what  they  have  to  do.  I  will  tell 
them  what  they  have  to  do :  They  will  have  to  work  right  straight  along 
for  the  Church  the  way  the  Apostles  work,  they  will  have  to  make  some 
changes  in  their  lives,  and  they  will  have  to  devote  themselves  more  to 
the  work  of  God  than  they  have  ever  done  before,  and  they  will  have  joy 
in  doing  so. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you  good  people.  I  bless  the  honest  the  world 
over.  I  pray  you  to  have  no  hard  feelings  in  your  hearts  toward  many 
of  the  people  who  are  in  the  war,  who  are  fighting  against  England,  be- 
cause many  of  them  would  give  their  lives,  almost,  if  they  could  get  out 
of  that  kind  of  fighting.  I  want  you  to  know  that  from  Holland  and 
Germany  some  of  the  choicest  and  finest  men  that  have  ever  been  mem- 
bers of  this  Church,  came.    Karl  G.  Maeser's  name  will  always  live 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


131 


among  us.  He  was  a  marvel  of  spirituality  and  he  impressed  and  blessed 
the  youth  of  Zion.  I  want  you  not  to  feel  hard  toward  the  Germans,  even 
though  they  are  fighting,  because  there  are  many  of  them  that  would  be 
grateful  and  thank  the  Lord  Almighty  if  they  did  not  have  to  fight. 

Let  us  do  our  best  to  encourage  our  boys  in  the  army  to  live  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  perfectly  as  though  they  were  in  the  mission 
field,  and  to  seek  God  for  the  guidance  of  His  Spirit  and  its  protecting 
care.  Encourage  your  loved  ones.  I  regret  beyond  all  my  powers  of  ex- 
pression that  we  have  to  send  our  boys  to  war,  and  I  feel  that  we  would 
not  have  needed  to  do  it  if  we  had  been  governed  properly. 

I  beg  pardon,  the  doctor  will  get  after  me  for  sure.  (Laughter.) 

I  was  going  to  say  some  more,  but  I  had  better  keep  still  or  it  will 
be  called  politics.  You  know,  I  have  contempt  for  politics,  because,  as  1 
have  said  for  many  years,  they  are  like  the  measles,  if  you  will  just  take 
a  little  saffron  tea  and  keep  the  measles  on  the  surface,  they  will  not  hurt 
you,  but  if  they  set  in  on  you  they  turn  your  hide  yellow  and  make  you 
cross-eyed.  (Laughter.) 

Well  now,  I  would  like  us  to  close  on  time.  I  want  to  bless  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  the  world  over  and  the  honest  the  world  over.  I  want  to 
thank  this  choir  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  for  what  they  are  doing 
for  us.  I  want  to  thank  the  choir  and  the  orchestra  that  came  from 
Provo,  also  the  choir  that  came  from  Blackfoot.  May  the  Lord  bless 
them  all.  They  are  doing  a  great  work,  a  great  missionary  work.  I  am 
grateful  for  all  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  me.  I  have  been  blessed 
more  than  I  could  have  hoped  or  expected.  All  that  I  have  and  all 
that  I  amount  to  I  owe  to  my  sainted  mother. 

I  pray  the  people  to  remember  to  honor  their  parents,  follow  that 
commandment.  It  is  one  of  the  greatest  in  all  the  world.  Children,  hon- 
or your  parents. 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 
May  I  for  President  McKay  and  myself  say  what  I  am  sure  you 
know  must  be  true,  that  we  make  no  important  decision  without  consult- 
ing President  Grant,  and  his  mind  is  as  clear  and  concise  and  accurate  as 
it  ever  was. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "Hallelujah"  {Messiah) — Handel. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 
I  should  like  to  add  my  thanks  to  those  expressed  by  President  Grant 
for  this  wonderful  music  by  the  Choir. 

Drive  carefully,  please,  going  home ;  pedestrians  walk  cautiously. 
After  the  benediction  this  Conference  will  stand  adjourned  sine  die. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  M.  Howard  Randall, 
President  of  the  Morgan  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


/ 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  musical  exercises  at  the  Friday  sessions  were  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Chorus  and  members  of  the  Provo  Duo  Stake 
Choir,  Drs.  Franklin  W.  Madsen  and  Florence  Madsen,  Directors;  at 
the  Saturday  sessions,  by  the  Blackf  oot  Stake  Choir,  Elder  Ronald  Bitton, 
Director ;  and  at  the  Sunday  meetings  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Director. 

The  congregational  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
and  Richard  P.  Condie. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Alexander  Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper.  Organ  accompaniments  and 
solo  presentations  for  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast,  as 
also  the  Church  of  the  Air  program,  Sunday  morning,  were  played  by 
Frank  W.  Asper. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Announcement  about  Radio  Broadcasts — President  Clark   46 

Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  0   57 

A  lesson  drawn  from  fishing  in  Hawaii,  57 — Experience  broadened 
by  perspective,  58 — A  tribute  to  the  people  in  Hawaii,  58 — Menace 
of  intoxicants,  60. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  -  94 

Auditing  Committee,  Report  of    16 

Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities  Sustained    94 

Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained   97 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O  -   32 

Responsibility  for  opportunities,  32 — Earthly  life  of  man,  32 — 
The  keys  of  authority,  33 — Evil  habits  lead  men  astray,  34 — A 
great  promise,  34 — The  value  of  Truth,  34. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E   85 

Fundamentals  must  remain  unaltered,  85 — Today's  test  of  Gospel 
message,  85 — Humility  would  wipe  out  violence,  86 — War  never 
ends  war,  86 — The  spirit  of  reprisal,  87 — Defense  preparations 
delayed  through  greed,  87 — The  way  to  industrial  peace,  88 — 
Peace  is  driven  from  our  borders,  88— War  settles  nothing,  88 — ■ 
.    The  Gospel  message  must  be  taught,  89. 

Broadcast,  Choir  and  Organ   97 

Broadbent,  Elder  David  A     89 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   41 

Mighty  works  performed  by  Jesus,  41 — The  yoke  of  Christ,  41 — 
Practical  Advice  to  young  men,  41 — The  Lord's  advice  to  rich  and 
poor,  42 — Gratitude  expressed  for  leaders,  43. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   71 

Keys  of  authority  of  the  Priesthood,  71 — Factors  affecting  human 
behavior,  71 — Everyone  has  right  of  choice,  72 — -Human  emotions 
and  reason,  73 — Power  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  73 — Testimony  of  the 
truth,  74. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers      13 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast   99 

Church  Building  Program   10 

Church  Authorities,  Presentation  of   94 

Church  Officers,  Presentation  of   -   95 

Church  Welfare  Program   8 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   2 

Opened  First  Session  of  Conference,  2. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   3 

Gratitude  for  the  presence  of  President  Grant,  3. 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   7 

Expresses  feelings  in  regard  to  President  Grant's  testimony,  7. 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   16 

Budget  in  balance,  16 — Urges  care  in  spending,  17 — Gratitude 
expressed  for  generosity  of  Saints,  17 — Perils  of  the  times,  18 — 
No  man  sees  the  end,  18 — Our  duty  to  sustain  the  Constitution,  19 
Former  predictions  repeated,  19 — To  be  peacemakers  the  destiny 
of  America,  20 — A  choice  land,  20 — The  Lord's  plan  will  triumph, 
21 — Prayer  for  peace,  21. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   24 

"Drive  carefully",  24 — Opens  second  session,  24. 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   46 

Gratitude  for  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus,  46 — "Drive 
carefully"  46 — Opening  of  third  session  of  conference,  46. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.    70 

"Drive  carefully",  70 — Commendation  to  Blackfoot  Stake  Choir, 
70. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   70 

Opening  fourth  session,  70. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   93 

Expresses  gratitude  again  for  Blackfoot  Stake  Choir,  93 — Opening 
of  fifth  session  of  Conference,  93. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   94 

Explains  calling  of  Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  94. 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  110 

Announcement  of  Dr.  James  E.  West's  presence,  110. 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  Ill 

Opening  of  the  Sixth  Session  of  Conference,  111. 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   .119 

Introduces  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee,  119. 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  .122 

Announcing  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve  as  speakers,  122. 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  131 

No  important  decisions  without  consulting  President  Grant,  131. 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  131 

Expresses  thanks  to  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  131. 
Clawson,  President  Rudger   22 

A  very  satisfactory  report,  22 — Gospel  preached  by  word  and 
■  example, '22 — The  message  preached  at  home  and  abroad,  23 — 

Bears  testimony,  23. 

Clayson,  Elder  Merrill  D   91 

European  Mission,  Report  of   12 

Evans,  Elder  Frank  -   44 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.   52 

The  future  as  it  affects  youth,  52 — The  call  to  arms,  52 — A  lesson 
from  the  life  of  Jacob,  53 — Preparations  for  life  should  go  forward, 
54. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.   97 

Announcing  the  Broadcast,  97. 

Fast  Offering  Information   10 

Financial  Statement        7 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   24 


INDEX 


135 


First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

General  Authorities  Sustained    94 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained    97 

General  Officers  Sustained    94 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   3 

Admonition  to  soldier  boys,  3 — Officers  and  teachers  must  set 
example,  3 — Responsibility  in  the  Church  brings  humility,  4 — 
„  Early  experiences  as  an  Apostle,  4 — The  responsibility  of  making 
good,  5 — Joy  in  preaching  the  Gospel,  6 — Work  of  former  Presi- 
dents of  the  Church,  6. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  128 

Happiness  expressed  in  attending  Conference,  128 — Condition  of 
health  trying,  128 — Causes  for  gratitude,  129 — Anthony  W.  Ivins' 
call  to  Mexico,  129 — A  prophecy  fulfilled,  130 — Blessing  and  testi- 
mony, 130. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K.   54 

Conference  gatherings  in  the  Tabernacle,  SS — Preparations  for 
war,  55 — Prophecy  of  warning  and  of  comfort,  55 — The  promises 
of  the  Lord  sure  of  fulfilment,  56 — The  Stake  missionary  work,  57. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   29 

Love  expressed  for  leaders,  29 — Joy  in  ministry  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  29 — Melchizedek  Priesthood  comparisons,  30 — Teach- 
ing of  marriage  in  the  Temple  most  desirable,  30 — Responsibility 
of  leaders  toward  the  young,  31. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B  119 

Thoughts  stirred  by  new  assignment,  119 — Tribute  to  father, 
mother,  and  wife,  120 — Development  of  Church  Welfare  Plan,  120 
— Strengthened  through  humble  prayer,  121 — God's  will  made 
manifest,  121 — A  testimony  of  the  truth  obtained  through  experi- 
ence, 121. 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   66 

Threatening  forces,  66 — Faith  the  only  remedy,  66 — "Seek  and 
ye  shall  find,"  67 — Appeal  for  attendance  at  Sacrament  Meetings, 
67 — Power  in  prayer,  67 — Two  sources  of  security,  68 — War's 
consequences,  69 — Peace  through  justice  and  charity,  69. 

McKay,  President  David  O   7 

Impressed  with  President  Grant's  testimony,  7 — Reads  Annual 
Report,  7. 

McKay,  President  David  O  106 

What  the  Kingdom  of  God  implies,  106 — The  purpose  of  the 
Church,  106 — How  the  Church  contributes  to  character-building, 
106 — Five  fateful  years,  107 — Transforming  society,  107 — Social 
attitude,  108 — Honest  labor  encouraged,  109 — Human  nature,  109 
— Press  ever  onward,  110. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E  124 

Advice  of  parents  recalled,  124 — Happiness  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  124 — A  tribute  to  President  Grant,  124 — Army  chaplains 
appointed,  125. 

Report  of  European  Missions   12 

Richards,  Elder  George  F  Ill 

Manifestation  of  interest,  112 — Joy  in  the  ministry,  112 — Revela- 
tion brought  true  knowledge  of  God,  112 — One  Father  of  the 
spirits  of  men,  113 — The  greatest  gift,  114 — Sacrifice  rewarded, 
114. 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand   ~   81 

The  promises  of  the  Lord  sure  of  fulfilment,  82 — A  patriarchal 
blessing  and  its  fulfilment,  83 — The  Saints  standing  in  holy  places, 
84 — Elements  rebuked  by  faith,  84. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   99 

Description  of  the  tabernacle,  99 — Religious  ideals  of  the  Pioneers, 
100 — Early  missionaries  and  their  message,  101 — New  concepts  in 
the  restored  Gospel,  102 — Irreverence  wrecks  faith,  104 — Respon- 
sibility of  educators,  104 — the  value  of  a  living  faith,  105. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G  122 

Response  regarding  call  to  service,  122 — Safety  in  following  the 
counsel  of  leaders,  123. 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting    70 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   46 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   24 

The  commandments  of  the  Lord  given  for  our  good,  24 — Bless- 
ings follow  keeping  of  commandments,  25 — The  Priesthood  to  be 
honored,  27 — Advice  to  seek  for  improvement,  27 — Faith  shown  by 
good  works,  28. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   35 

Keeping  the  commandments  important,  35 — Marriag-e  for  time 
not  approved,  36 — Responsibility  of  parents,  36 — Covenants  not 
of  God  end  with  life,  36—  Eternal  life  through  keeping  God's  com- 
mandments, 38 — President  Joseph  F.  Smith's  words,  38. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G.  126 

Missionary  work  in  the  Northwestern  States,  126 — Example  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  127 — Call  to  new  duties,  127. 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   126 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  Ill 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   93 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   .  74 

Good  and  evil  cannot  be  done  under  compulsion,  74 — The  Savior's 
plan  for  mankind,  75 — Obedience  to  the  will  of  God  required  in 
all  things,  76 — The  covenant  made  by  God,  77 — The  Savior's  part 
in  the  plan  of  salvation,  78. 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.  .,  _  115 

Tolerance  for  the  opinions  of  others,  115 — The  Church  has  suf- 
fered from  intolerance,  115 — True  meaning  of  tolerance,  115 — 
Danger  in  not  living  up  to  standards,  116 — The  Gospel  of  Christ 
founded  in  truth,  116 — Those  valiant  for  the  truth  are  conquerors, 
117 — The  spirit  of  evil  rampant,  117 — -Believers  in  Christ  ultimate 
leaders  in  the  world,  117. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L       60 

The  teaching  of  a  good  mother,  60 — The  leaders  of  the  Church 
servants  of  God,  61 — Obedience  a  saving  principle,  61 — Disobedi- 
ence brings  its  own  punishment,  62 — Obedience  shown  by  early 
Latter-day  Saint  pioneers,  63 — A  land  blessed  of  the  Lord,  64— 
Promises  of  the  Lord  sure  of  fulfilment,  64 — Our  obligation  to  the 
world,  65. 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E.  125 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    79 

Associate  Mission  Presidents  praised,  79 — Early  missionary  work 
in  New  England,  79 — Missionaries  making  headway,  79 — Items 
of  early  history  in  New  England,  80 — Joseph  Smith's  own  story 
and  the  Articles  of  Faith  of  great  worth,  81. 


Sook,  dimdqiAJcUdsUiA. 

The  Deseret  Book  Company  is  headquarters  for  all 
L.  D.  S.  publications,  as  well  as  for  general  books  of 
every  kind.  We  especially  call  your  attention  to  the 
following  books,  on  sale  here: 

Program  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 

Latter-day  Saints,  by  John  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

Unto  the  Hills  (The  Spoken  Word) 

by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.50  (postpaid) 

Pioneer  Stories 

by  Preston  Nibley  $1.00  (postpaid) 

A  Rational  Theology 

by  J.  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

Priesthood  and  Church  Government 

by  John  A.  Widtsoe  $1.75 

Prepared  as  the  text  book  for  the  members  of  the  Church 
holding  the  Higher  Priesthood.  This  book  will  be  used 
during  the  year  1941  as  the  official  text  book. 

Special  price  to  Priesthood  members — $1.50  or  $1.35 
if  cash  accompanies  the  order. 

A  Century  of  Mormonism  in  Great  Britain, 

by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.25  (postpaid) 

Romance  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 

by  Josiah  E.  Hickman  $2.50  (postpaid) 

Progress  of  Man, 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  $1.50  (postpaid) 

Whatever  your  book  needs,  consult  us  first.  We  have 
the  most  comprehensive  stock  of  books  in  the  inter- 
mountain  region,  and  we  specialize  in  books  about  the 
Mormons  and  the  West.  We  invite  your  inquiries. 

Prompt  Service  by  Mail. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 

Taken  from  his  sermons  and  writings  as  they  are  found  in  the  Documentary 
History  and  other  publications  of  the  Church  and  written  or  published  in 
the  days  of  the  Prophet's  ministry 

Selected  and  arranged  by  the  Historian,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  his 
Assistants  in  the  Historian's  Office  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Many  of  these  discourses  and  w»Iilr)<r  appear  in  the  Documentary 
History  of  the  Church,  but  others  have  not  been  included  in  these  volumes, 
but  are  scattered  through  the  eoj-ly  publications  of  the  Church.  It  has 
been  difficult  even  for  the  student  to  obtain  these  because  the  old  publica- 
tions are  not  accessible  for  general  use. 

SPECIALLY  PRICED  AT  $2.00 


Stories  of  Latter-day  Saint  Hymns 

(Their  Authors  and  Composers) 
By 

GEORGE  D.  PYPER 

"The  Latter-day  Saints  have  always  been  a  singing  people.  Some 
of  their  greatest  sermons  and  messages  have  come  through  the  avenue  of 
song." 

So  writes  the  author,  George  D.  Pyper,  in  this  fascinating  story  of  an 
essential  feature  in  the  lives  of  a  culture  loving  people. 

Well  illustrated  throughout,  this  work  will  take  a  high  place  in  literary 
circles,  and  will  win  a  permanent  spot  in  the  hearts  of  all  lovers  of  great 
and  good  music. 

PRICE— $2.00 


VISUAL  AIDS 

To  be  visually  prepared  is  one  of  the  greatest  of  assets  to  a  teacher. 

For  particulars  and  descriptive  literature  we  invite  you  to  communicate 
with  us. 

We  are  prepared  to  give  demonstrations  in  all  types  of  equipment 
and  to  offer  our  Three  S  plan:   SURVEY,  SUGGESTIONS,  SERVICE. 


DESERET  BOOH  COMPANY 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


