Owl  dhindhsd,  Jtuswiy-floWdk. 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

COnfERfnCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Odtobsuv  2,  3  and.  4, 
1953 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  In  the  United  States  of  America 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 


Life  of  a  Great  Leader  $2.50 

Biography  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

Presidents  of  the  Church  ....  $4.00 

Preston  Nibley 
New  revised  edition  Including  biographical  sketch  of 
President  David  O.  McKay 

Brig  ham  Young,  the  Man  and  His  Work  $3.00 

Preston  Nibley 

Masterpieces  of  Latter-day  Saint  Leaders  $2.00 

Compiled  by  N.  B.  Lundwall 

A  Marvelous  Work  and  a  Wonder  $1.75 

LeGrand  Richards 

Sermons  and  Missionary  Services  of 

Melvin  J.  Ballard   $2.75 

Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

Prophecy  and  Modern  Times   $1.75 

W.  Cleon  Skousen 

Ancient  America  and  The  Book  of  Mormon  $4.00 

Milton  R.  Hunter  and  Thomas  Stewart  Ferguson 

Outlines  of  Ecclesiastical  History  $2.25 

B.  H.  Roberts 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-fourth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-fourth 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday, 
October  2,  3  and  4,  1953. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  and 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  even- 
ing, October  3,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL,  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  the  following  sta- 
tions: 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KSUB  at 
Cedar  City,  KVNU  at  Logan,  KJAM  at 
Vernal. 

In  Idaho:  KRXX  at  Rexburg,  KJRL  at 
Pocatello,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KGEM 
at  Boise,  KBIO  at  Burley,  KEEP  at  Twin 
Falls.  , 

In  Colorado:  KEXO  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion. 

In  Nevada:   KELY  at  Ely. 
In  Arizona:  KTYL  at  Mesa,  KVNC  at 
Winslow. 

In  California:  (Sunday  Only)  KBLA 
at  North  Hollywood,  KEEN  at  San 
Jose,  KSBR  at  San  Bruno,  KRON  at 
San  Francisco,  KNOB  at  Long  Beach, 
KPRO  at  Riverside,  KGO-TV  at  San 
Francisco,  KNXT-TV  at  Los  Angeles. 

In  Washington.  (Sunday  Morning 
Only)  KYAK  at  Yakima,  KTNT-TV  at 
Tacoma. 

In  Oregon:  (Sunday  Morning  Only) 
KPAM  at  Portland,  KWRC  at  Pendle- 
ton, KPTV-TV  at  Portland. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  also  televised  over  KSL  tele- 
vision station,  Channel  5. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  conference 


and  the  General  Priesthood  meeting 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
on  Temple  Square,  and  in  Barratt  Hall 
(60  North  Main  Street),  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system  and  by  television. 
Thousands,  in  addition,  listened  to  the 
services  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  by 
means  of  amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  were  broadcast  by  special 
wire  to  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Fieldhouse  in  Provo,  Utah,  and  to  the 
Church's  Institute  in  Logan,  for  the  ac- 
commodation of  large  groups  of  brethren 
holding  the  priesthood  who  had  assem- 
bled in  those  buildings  to  listen  to  the 
services. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  including 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcasting 
Company's  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Or- 
gan broadcast  is  also  included  in  this 
record  as  is  also  a  full  account  of  Colum- 
bia Church  of  the  Air  program. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards,  and  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley, 
Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  L.  Stapley, 
Marion  G.  Romney,  LeGrand  Richards, 
Adam  S.  Bennion,  and  Richard  L. 
Evans.1 


xElder  Richard  L.  Evans  was  sustained  at  this  Con- 
ference (October  4)  as  a  member  of  the  Quorum  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles  to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by  the 
death  of  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young, 
Alma  Sonne,  George  Q.  Morris,  2,  EIRay 
L.  Christiansen,  and  John  Longden.3 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  4, 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  Seymour  Dilworth 
Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  Bruce  R. 
McConkie,  and  Marion  Duff  Hanks.5 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 


2Elder  Stayner  Richards  passed  away  May  28,  1953. 

3Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  was  sustained  at  this  Con- 
ference as  an  Assistant  to  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

4Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  was  sustained  as  a  member 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

EElder  Marion  Duff  Hanks  was  sustained  at  this 
Conference  as  a  member  of  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy. 


General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  A.  William 
Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  General  Welfare  Commit- 
tee, Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  Church  Board  of  Edu- 
cation and  Administrator,  Church  Board 
of  Education,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary  in- 
structors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patri- 
archs, High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders; 
General  Stake  and  Ward  officers  of 
Auxiliary  Associations,  etc.,  from  all 
parts  of  the  Church. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  opening  session  of  the  Confer- 
ence convened  Friday  morning,  October 
2,  at  10  o'clock,  with  President  David 
O.  McKay  presiding  and  conducting 
the  services. 

The  great  auditorium  and  galleries 
of  the  Tabernacle  were  filled  with  peo- 
ple, large  numbers  occupied  the  As- 
sembly Hall  to  the  south  of  the  Taber- 
nacle and  also  Barratt  Hall  (40  North 
Main  Street),  provision  having  been 
made  for  the  overflow  crowds  to  enjoy 
the  services  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
Barratt  Hall  by  means  of  television.  In 
addition,  many  others  assembled  on  the 
Tabernacle  grounds  where  amplifiers 
had  been  provided  so  that  those  who 
were  unable  to  obtain  entrance  to  any 
of  these  buildings  could  hear  the  services 
as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Taber- 
nacle. 

The  choral  singing  for  this  session 
was  furnished  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  from  Stakes  in  the 
Central  Utah  and  Mount  Timpanogos 
regions,  with  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen  conducting.  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the 
124th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah.  All  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  are  in  attendance.  Brother 
Joseph  Anderson  is  Clerk  of  the  Confer- 
ence. 

These  services  and  all  general  sessions 
of  the  Conference  will  be  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall 
over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by 
television.  The  Tabernacle  is  crowded 
to  capacity.  So  far  as  I  can  see  every 
seat  is  taken  and  some  are  standing  in 
the  doorways. 


These  services  will  also  be  televised 
over  KSL-TV,  Channel  Five,  of  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  will  be  heard  over  Radio 
Station  KSL,  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by 
arrangement  through  KSL,  over  fourteen 
radio  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Arizona, 
Nevada,  and  Colorado.  The  names  of 
these  stations  have  already  been  an- 
nounced to  the  radio  and  television 
audience.  That  was  done  during  the 
pause  a  few  moments  ago. 

For  the  first  time,  Sunday  morning's 
session  will  be  televised  outside  the  Salt 
Lake  viewing  area,  over  television  sta- 
tions in  San  Francisco,  California,  Los 
Angeles,  California,  Portland,  Oregon, 
and  Tacoma,  Washington. 

To  the  audience,  those  who  are  as- 
sembled in  person  and  to  thousands 
listening  in  over  the  radio,  the  First 
Presidency  and  General  Authorities  ex- 
tend a  most  hearty  welcome,  and  pray 
that  our  souls  may  be  uplifted  and  in- 
spired by  our  assembling  together  in  this 
great  Conference  of  the  Church. 

I  wish  to  announce,  too,  that  we  have 
greetings  from  Tokyo,  Japan,  through 
President'  Mauss,  and  the  following 
cable  from  some  of  our  boys  in  Korea; 
written  at  Seoul: 

"The  brethren  of  the  Seventh  Di- 
vision would  like  you  to  know  our 
thoughts  are  with  you  at  this  time." 
Signed  by  the  Group  Presidency,  Edwin 
S.  Pearson,  Jr.,  Forrest  A.  Hansen,  Henry 
N.  Griffith,  and  Russell  M.  Kunzler. 
There  is  a  pathos  in  that,  and  in  your 
behalf  we  send  our  love  and  blessing 
to  the  boys  in  Korea,  and  thank  them 
for  the  message. 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  ses- 
sion will  be  furnished  by  five  hundred 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  from  the 
seventeen  stakes  in  the  Central  Utah 
and  Mount  Timpanogos  Regions,  with 
Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  con- 
ducting and  Brother  Alexander  Schreiner 
at  the  organ. 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Fridayt  October  2 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  singing, 
"Lord,  Hear  Our  Prayer,"  conducted  by 
Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 


First  Day 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  APRIL 
CONFERENCE,  1953 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang,  "Lord,  Hear  Our  Prayer,"  after 
which  the  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  Marion  Duff  Hanks,  Assistant 
Director  of  the  Bureau  of  Information. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  acknowledge  the  presence  of  the 
following  distinguished  visitors  and 
others  who  hold  prominent  positions  in 
educational  circles  and  in  the  State. 
We  are  not  sure  that  we  have  been  able 
to  observe  all  who  are  present,  but  we 
mention  the  following: 

Senator  Wallace  F.  Bennett;  Mayor 
Earl  J.  Glade;  Dr.  Otto  Brinkmann, 
Superintendent  of  Schools  in  West  Ber- 
lin; Superintendent  Lynn  Bennion,  Su- 
perintendent of  Salt  Lake  City  Schools; 
Dr.  Aldous  H.  Dixon,  President  of  the 
Utah  Agricultural  College;  Dr.  Homer 
Durham,  Vice-President  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Utah,  Dr.  Olpin  is  on  a  world 
tour,  representing  the  Government.  We 
acknowledge  the  presence  of  Secretary 
of  State,  Lamont  Toronto;  President 
Ernest  Wilkinson,  President  of  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University;  and  I  think,  Dr. 
Miller,  President  of  Weber  College. 
There  may  be  others.  We  extend  to 
each  and  all  a  hearty  welcome  this 
morning. 

The  Singing  Mothers  will  now  favor 
us  with,  "My  Soul  is  Athirst  for  God," 
conducted  by  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen.  After  the  singing,  Elder  Joseph 
Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  will 
read  the  vital  statistical  data,  the  changes 
in  ward  and  stake  organizations,  and 
the  obituaries  of  the  Church. 


Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "My  Soul  Is  Athirst  for  God." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  then  read  the  following 
report: 


MISSION  CHANGES  AND  NEW 
PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Asael  T.  Sorensen  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  Brazilian  Mission  to  succeed 
Rulon  S.  Howells. 

Cornelius  Zappey  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 
to  succeed  John  B.  Matheson. 

Harold  L.  Gregory  appointed  president 
of  the  East  German  Mission  to  succeed 
Arthur  Glaus. 

Harold  Willey  Lee  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  French  Mission  to  succeed 
Golden  L.  Woolf. 

Lorin  L.  Richards  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  Great  Lakes  Mission  to  suc- 
ceed Carl  C.  Burton. 

Hilton  A.  Robertson  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  Japanese  Mission  and  the 
Chinese  Mission  succeeding  Vinal  G. 
Mauss  as  President  of  the  Japanese  Mis- 
sion. 

Claudious  Bowman  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  Mexican  Mission  to  suc- 
ceed Lucian  M.  Mecham. 

Harold  I.  Bowman  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  Spanish  American  Mission 
to  succeed  Lorin  F.  Jones. 

Kenneth  B.  Dyer  appointed  president 
of  the  West  German  Mission  to  succeed 
Edwin  Q.  Cannon,  Sr. 

TEMPLE  PRESIDENT  APPOINTED 

Arwell  Lee  Pierce,  appointed  presi- 
dent of  the  Arizona  Temple  to  succeed 
Harry  L.  Payne,  deceased. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Butte  Stake  organized  June  28,  1953. 
North  Pocatello  Stake  organized  June 
21,  1953. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  CHOSEN 

Edgar  T.  Henderson,  president  of 
Butte  Stake. 

Irvin  Burrell  Romney,  president  of 
Juarez  Stake  to  succeed  Claudious  Bow- 
man. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Jared  O.  Anderson,  president  of  North 
Pocatello  Stake. 

William  Roscoe  Cahoon,  president 
of  Pocatello  Stake  to  succeed  William  P. 
Whitaker. 

Arthur  J.  Barlocher,  president  of 
Uvada  Stake  to  succeed  Daniel  J.  Ron- 
now. 

Leo  Reeve,  president  of  Zion  Park 
Stake  to  succeed  Elmer  A.  Graff. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Anaconda,  Bozeman,  Butte,  Dillon, 
and  Helena  Wards,  Butte  Stake. 

Laguna  Beach  Ward,  East  Long  Beach 
Stake. 

Highland  View  West  Ward,  East 
Mill  Creek  Stake. 

Yuba  City  Second  Ward,  Gridley 
Stake. 

Idaho  Falls  Sixteenth  Ward,  Idaho 
Falls  Stake. 

Gardena  Ward,  Inglewood  Stake. 

Roy  Second  and  Third  Wards,  Lake 
View  Stake. 

Layton  Fifth,  Sixth,  and  Seventh 
Wards,  Layton  Stake. 

Syracuse  Second  Ward,  North  Davis 
Stake. 

Kearns  Second  Ward,  North  Jordan 
Stake. 

Poplar  Grove  Third  Ward,  Pioneer 
Stake. 

Van  Nuys  Second,  Pacoima,  and 
Woodland  Hills  Wards,  San  Fernando 
Stake. 


Pleasant  Grove  Fourth  Ward,  Timpa- 
nogos  Stake. 

Twin  Falls  Fifth  and  Sixth  Wards, 
Twin  Falls  Stake. 

Rangely  Ward,  Uintah  Stake. 

Pocatello  Eighteenth  Ward,  West 
Pocatello  Stake. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Shady  Cove  Branch,  Klamath  Stake. 
Hauula  Branch,  Oahu  Stake. 
Connell  Branch,  Richland  Stake. 
McCall  Branch,  Weiser  Stake. 
Bannock  Creek  Branch,  West  Poca- 
tello Stake. 

WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Basin  Ward,  Cassia  Stake. 
Chuichupa    and    Pacheco  Wards, 
Juarez  Stake. 

Arsenal  Villa  Branch,  Lake  View  Stake. 
Stibnite  Branch,  Weiser  Stake. 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 

Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve. 

Elder  Stayner  Richards,  Assistant  to 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Elder  Henry  C.  Jorgensen,  member  of 
the  General  Church  Welfare  Commit- 
tee. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Elder  Joseph  W.  Anderson  has  just 
read  the  vital  statistical  data,  the 
changes  in  ward  and  stake  organiza- 
tions, and  the  obituaries  of  the  Church. 

There  are  a  few  more  items  which 
might  be  mentioned,  in  which  you 
will  probably  be  interested. 

The  Church  construction  of  chapels, 
classrooms,  and  recreation  halls  con- 
tinues without  abatement,  indeed,  with 
acceleration.  During  the  last  nine 
months,  the  Church  has  spent  $5,568,- 
000.00  in  stakes,  and  $2,109,000.00  in 
missions,  a  total  of  $7,677,000.00,  or  a 


total  to  date  this  year,  including  local 
funds  contributed  for  this  purpose,  in 
stakes,  $10,337,000.00,  and  in  the  mis- 
sions, $2,704,000.00  (I  am  not  reading 
the  full  amount),  or  a  total  of  $13,041,- 
000.00. 

Temple  Construction 

You  already  know  about  the  dedica- 
tion of  two  temple  sites  in  Europe — the 
first  in  the  history  of  the  Church — one 
at  Berne,  Switzerland,  and  another  be- 
tween London  and  Brighton,  England. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  2 

The  construction  of  the  temple  in 
Los  Angeles  is  proceeding  satisfactorily. 
We  wish  to  commend  the  members  of 
the  Church  in  the  Los  Angeles  Temple 
district  for  their  magnanimous  contri- 
bution to  this  edifice.  As  has  already 
been  announced,  they  volunteered  to 
contribute  over  a  million  dollars  to- 
wards the  construction  and  completion 
of  this  edifice,  and  their  payments  are 
practically  up-to-date.  In  addition  to 
giving  this  large  cash  contribution  they 
recently  volunteered  to  assist  in  the 
landscaping,  and  even  now  they  are 
planting  shrubbery  and  getting  trees  so 
that  at  the  time  of  dedication  of  the 
temple,  the  grounds  will  be  properly  and 
beautifully  landscaped.  May  the  Lord 
bless  these  faithful  people  and  enable 
them  to  fulfil  their  promise  in  order 
that  this  edifice  may  be  completely  paid 
for  by  its  dedication  within  a  year  and 
a  half  or  two  years. 

The  plans  already  are  drawn  for  the 
temple  in  Switzerland,  and  the  archi- 
tect and  contractor  are  proceeding  so 
that  that  edifice  will  be  completed 
without  delay. 

Stake  Missionary  Work 

You  will  be  interested  to  know  that 
the  stake  missionary  work  is  meeting 
with  unprecedented  results:  6518  stake 
missionaries  are  now  working  within 
the  organized  stakes.  To  date  there 
have  been  3441  who  have  accepted  the 
gospel  through  the  efforts  of  these  stake 
missionaries,  and  the  work  is  continu- 
ing with  unabated  zeal. 

Youth  Program 

We  might  mention,  too,  for  your 
interest,  that  the  youth  program  is  being 
carried  on  most  ably.  I  shall  not  take 
time  to  weary  you  with  statistics,  but 
in  the  girls'  program,  covering  all  the 
girls  from  twelve  to  nineteen,  for 
August  1953,  there  were  56,332  enrolled. 
We  believe  that  is  one  hundred  percent 
of  all  the  girls  between  those  ages.  The 
average  attendance  of  the  girls  at  the 
three  meetings  for  this  month,  August, 
were  as  follows:  Of  those  young  girls, 


First  Day 

forty-nine  percent  of  them  attended 
sacrament  meetings;  fifty-nine  percent 
attended  the  Sunday  Schools;  and  fifty- 
four  percent  attended  the  MIA  meet- 
ings. We  commend  you,  sisters.  A 
very  definite  program  is  carried  out  by 
the  MIA  for  getting  in  touch  with  in- 
active girls  and  in  trying  to  interest  them 
in  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associa- 
tion. 

In  YMMIA  during  the  past  three  years 
there  has  been  an  increase  of  11,872  in 
enrolment  in  the  scouting  program. 
According  to  a  report  (we  have  this 
from  Brother  D.  L.  Roberts,  who  is  di- 
rector of  the  Mormon  relationships  in 
the  Boy  Scouts,  and  from  Brother  Elbert 
R.  Curtis,  general  superintendent),  on 
Sunday  evening,  during  the  jamboree  at 
Los  Angeles,  July  19,  a  great  convoca- 
tion was  held.  Attending  were  more 
than  forty-five  thousand  Boy  Scouts, 
and  there  were  present  fifty  thousand 
or  more  visitors.  During  the  convoca- 
tion great  attention  was  paid  to  the 
churches  of  America,  and  religious 
training,  and  our  Church  received 
favorable  attention.  This  made  us  hap- 
py to  see  an  organization  such  as  scout- 
ing bring  such  favorable  comments 
about  the  work  that  is  being  done  for 
the  young  in  the  Church. 

I  have  notes  before  me  emphasizing 
particularly  what  the  Primary  Associa- 
tion is  doing  for  our  eleven-year-old 
boys  who  are  now  taking  up  preliminary 
Scout  work,  also  commending  the  high 
percentage  of  attendance  at  Primary 
meetings,  and  the  most  excellent  work 
that  is  being  done  by  the  Primary 
hospital. 

Unification  of  Church  School 
System 

Since  our  meeting  of  last  April  there 
has  been  a  unification  of  the  Church 
school  system.  We  have  had,  hereto- 
fore, as  you  know,  a  Church  board  of 
education  with  a  commission  presiding 
over  the  colleges,  institutes,  and 
seminaries.  Then  we  had  a  board  of 
trustees  presiding  over  Brigham  Young 
University.    Those  two  great  branches 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


of  education  are  now  united  under  the 
direction  of  Dr.  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson, 
who  is  appointed  administrator  of  the 
Church  board  of  education,  in  addition 
to  his  presidency  over  Brigham  Young 
University. 

Here  I  wish  to  say  a  word  of  com- 
mendation for  the  excellent  service 
rendered  by  Commissioner  Franklin  L. 
West.  For  years  he  has  devoted  his 
entire  time  to  the  advancement  of  the 
institutes  and  seminaries  and  colleges 
of  the  Church.  His  heart  has  been  in 
the  work.  He  has  expressed  and  radiated 
a  fervent  testimony  of  the  divinity  of 
the  restored  gospel,  and  his  heart  has 
been  centered  upon  the  instructing  of 
the  youth  in  the  fundamentals  and 
ideals  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 
He  retires  with  the  confidence  and  bless- 
ing of  the  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

Under  his  direction  there  has  been 
a  steady  increase  in  the  number  en- 
rolled in  our  institutes  and  seminaries. 
Last  year  there  were  enrolled  36,081 
seminary  students,  4202  institute  stu- 
dents, 1 140  in  the  schools  of  the  islands 
of  the  Pacific,  or  a  total  of  41,423. 

I  am  glad  to  report  to  you  that  the 
Church  is  moving  on  with  great  rapidity 
and  its  influence  being  extended 
throughout  the  world. 

Passing  of  Two  General  Authorities 

Since  our  last  meeting,  as  already  re- 
ported by  Brother  Anderson,  two  mem- 
bers of  the  General  Authorities  have 
passed  away:  Elder  A.  E.  Bowen  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  Elder 
Stayner  Richards,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve — two  stalwarts,  clear  in  vision, 
sound  in  judgment;  men  loyal  and  true 
to  their  callings,  to  the  ideals  and  doc- 
trines of  the  Church!  We  pay  respect 
to  their  memory.  May  their  acts  and 
services  during  their  lifetime  continue 
to  reverberate  for  good  in  the  hearts  not 
only  of  all  members  of  the  Church, 
but  of  all  those  outside  of  the  Church 
who  were  fortunate  enough  to  come  in 
contact  with  these  two  great  men. 


Commendation  of  Teachers  and 
Church  Groups 

I  have  mentioned  particularly  the 
work  of  the  Church  among  the  youth, 
because  the  future  of  this  world  is  large- 
ly determined,  as  Goethe  says,  "upon 
the  opinions  of  its  young  men  under  five 
and  twenty." 

If  that  be  true,  to  awaken  in  the  minds 
of  the  youth  of  the  land  a  desire  to 
achieve  life's  truest  values  is  to  render 
the  greatest  of  all  great  services  to  our 
country. 

With  this  thought  in  mind,  I  com- 
mend the  teachers  in  our  public  schools, 
who  under  present  difficulties,  are  re- 
maining true  to  their  post  of  duty.  Let 
us  hope  that  they  will  continue  to  do 
so,  and  not  go  off  on  a  tangent  vainly 
seeking  redress  in  unions,  which  will 
only  aggravate  a  condition  already  re- 
grettable. We  have  confidence  in  the 
teachers.  They  will  be  loyal  to  their 
profession,  teaching  the  young  to  be 
loyal  and  true  to  our  country,  to  love 
the  best  in  life,  rather  than  to  seek 
that  which  leads  to  selfishness. 

This  morning  I  want,  also,  to  com- 
mend the  Presiding  Bishopric,  the  bish- 
ops of  the  wards,  the  presidencies  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  quorums,  for  their 
efforts  to  bring  into  activity  all  the  boys 
between  the  ages  of  12  and  19,  and 
what  is  equally  commendable,  they  are 
reaching  out  to  incorporate  in  this  great 
spiritual  uplift  those  who  are  classified 
as  the  "senior  members  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,"  a  group  of  potential  power 
for  great  good,  not  only  in  the  Church, 
but  in  the  world,  many  of  them  leading 
businessmen  and  professional  men.  I 
commend  you,  brethren,  for  organizing 
these  able  men  into  groups  that  their 
influence  may  be  felt  for  good. 

The  Kingdom  of  God  or  Catastrophe 

With  this  in  mind,  I  should  like  to 
give  the  following  message,  feeling  as 
I  do  this  morning,  the  potency  and 
divinity  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
With  all  my  soul  I  feel  this  morning 
that  there  is  truly  "...  none  other  name 


8 

Friday,  October  2 

under  heaven  given  among  men,  where- 
by we  must  be  saved."  (Acts  4:12.)  I 
cannot  see  how  men  can  doubt  that. 

When  I  was  a  boy,  there  hung  above 
the  pulpit  in  the  chapel  in  Huntsville, 
(Utah),  a  picture  of  President  John 
Taylor.  Under  it  in  gold  letters  were 
these  words:  "The  Kingdom  of  God  or 
Nothing." 

In  childhood  I  gave  little  if  any 
thought  to  its  implication,  nor  in  youth 
did  I  try  to  comprehend  its  significance. 

This  morning,  with  world  conditions 
in  mind — international  suspicion  and 
enmities — threatening  war  clouds — 
"man's  inhumanity  to  man,"  and  other 
discouraging  aspects  of  human  relation- 
ships, I  am  inclined  to  paraphrase  that 
motto  to  read:  "The  kingdom  of  God  or 
catastrophe." 

Tradition  tells  us  that  Peter,  when 
on  the  Appian  Way  going  toward  Rome, 
was  met  by  this  question  "Quo  Vadis?" 
(Whither  goest  thou?)  Were  that  ques- 
tion put  to  people  today,  many  pessi- 
mists would  answer  that  we  are  headed 
for  catastrophe,  if  not  total  destruction. 
One  has  already  said  of  Europe: 

"On  the  whole,  during  many  genera- 
tions, there  has  been  a  gradual  decay 
of  religious  influence  in  European  civi- 
lization. Each  revival  touches  a  lower 
peak  than  its  predecessor,  and  each 
period  of  darkness,  a  lower  depth.  The 
average  curve  marks  a  steady  fall  in 
religious  tone.  Religion  is  tending  to 
degenerate  into  a  decent  formula  where- 
with to  embellish  a  comfortable  life. 

"Russia  officially  sanctions  irreligion, 
and  approves  a  system  of  sex  relations 
lower  than  any  sanctioned  by  the  lowest 
African  tribe. 

"The  paleolithic  savages  so  far  as  we 
know  had  no  such  practices."  (Man's 
Social  Destiny,  p.  23.) 

What  Men  Think 

And  Hayden,  writes  as  follows:  "To- 
day, as  never  before,  mankind  is  seeking 
social  betterment.  Today,  as  seldom  if 
ever  before,  human  society  is  threatened 
with  disintegration,   if  not  complete 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

chaos.  All  the  ancient  evils  of  human 
relationships,  injustice,  selfishness,  abuse 
of  strength,  become  sinister  and  terrible 
when  reinforced  by  the  vast  increase  of 
material  power.  The  soul  of  man 
cowers,  starved  and  fearful,  in  the  midst 
of  a  civilization  grown  too  complex  for 
any  mind  to  visualize  or  to  control. 
Joy  and  beauty  fade  from  human  living. 
Yet  life,  abundant,  beauteous,  laughing 
life,  has  been  our  agelong  labor's  end. 
What  other  conceivable  worth  has  the 
mastery  of  the  material  world,  the  ex- 
ploitation of  the  resources  of  nature  and 
the  creation  of  wealth,  except  as  a 
basis  for  the  release  of  the  life  of  the 
spirit.  We  are  witnessing  either  the 
crumbling  of  civilization  under  the 
weight  of  its  material  mechanism  or  the 
birth  of  a  new  organization  with  a 
spiritual  ideal." 

Oswald  Spengler  thinks,  and  has  so 
written:  "This  machine  technics  (re- 
ferring to  the  world)  will  end  with  the 
Faustian  civilization  and  one  day  will 
lie  in  fragments,  forgotten — our  railways 
and  steamships  as  dead  as  the  Roman 
roads  and  the  Chinese  Wall,  our  giant 
cities  and  skyscrapers  in  ruins  like  old 
Memphis  and  Babylon.  The  history  of 
this  technics  is  fast  drawing  to  its  in- 
evitable close.  It  will  be  eaten  up  from 
within  like  the  grand  forms  of  any  and 
every  culture.  When,  and  in  what 
fashion,  we  know  not." 

These  references  indicate  what  some 
men  are  thinking  about  the  present-day 
conditions,  and  where  such  conditions 
are  leading.  Whether  you  accept  them 
as  true,  or  not,  we  must  face  the  fact  that 
we  are  in  a  changing  world,  and  that 
the  destruction  of  present-day  civiliza- 
tion is  a  possibility. 

But,  brothers  and  sisters,  the  Lord 
has  something  better  in  store  for  his 
children  than  complete  destruction.  Na- 
tions may  be  born,  live,  flourish  for  a 
time,  and  through  internal  corruption 
or  other  causes,  die  or  be  destroyed;  but 
the  human  race  will  continue,  and  the 
kingdom  of  God  be  established. 

"...  behold,"  said  Daniel,  "one 
like  the  Son  of  man  came  with  the 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


clouds  of  heaven,  and  came  to  the  An- 
cient of  days,  .  .  . 

"And  there  was  given  him  dominion, 
and  glory,  and  a  kingdom,  that  all  peo- 
ple, nations,  and  languages,  should 
serve  him:  his  dominion  is  an  ever- 
lasting dominion,  which  shall  not  pass 
away,  and  his  kingdom  that  which  shall 
not  be  destroyed."  (Daniel  7:13-14.) 

The  paramount  need  in  the  world  to- 
day is  a  clearer  understanding  by  hu- 
man beings  of  moral  and  spiritual 
values,  and  a  desire  and  determination 
to  attain  them. 

Never  before  in  the  history  of  the 
world  has  there  been  such  a  need  of 
spiritual  awakening.  Unless  there  is 
such  an  awakening,  there  is  danger  of 
catastrophe  among  the  nations  of  the 
world. 

But  I  feel  this  morning,  with  all  my 
soul,  that  the  sun  of  hope  is  rising. 
Many  thinking  men  and  women  are 
recognizing  the  need  of  man's  looking 
up  towards  the  heavens  instead  of  his 
groveling  in  response  to  his  animal  na- 
ture. One  man  commenting  on  this 
said,  that  "If  all  the  destroyers  of  civili- 
zation could  be  eliminated,  and  the 
traits  of  the  rest  of  us  could  be  elimi- 
nated, an  approach  to  the  millennium 
some  hundred  years  hence  is  by  no 
means  inconceivable." 

The  Savior  of  the  world  said:  "I  am 
come  that  they  might  have  life,  and 
that  they  might  have  it  more  abundant- 
ly." (John  10:10.) 

Whether  we  live  miserably  or  live 
abundantly  depends  upon  ourselves. 
Look  introspectively,  young  man  and 
young  woman,  and  determine  whether 
your  innermost  thoughts  hold  you  on 
the  animal  plane  or  whether  they  tend 
to  lift  you  into  the  mental,  moral,  and 
spiritual  realm.  And  you  be  your  own 
judge.  Are  you  scheming  to  exploit 
another  for  personal  gain?  Are  you 
justifying  a  lie?  Are  you  entertaining 
the  thought  of  robbing  a  young  woman 
of  her  virtue?  Are  you,  young  woman, 
justifying  an  act  of  unchastity  in  ex- 
change for  the  attention  or  favor  of  a 
male  companion?  If  these  or  any  other 


selfish  sinful  thoughts  obsess  you,  then 
you  are  not  following  the  path  of  the 
abundant  life,  but  are  contributing  to 
the  continuance  of  a  sordid,  unhappy 
world. 

Four  Fundamental  Truths 

In  the  brief  sojourn  of  Jesus  upon  the 
earth,  he  marked  clearly  "the  way,  the 
truth,  and  the  life."  (See  Ibid.,  14:6.) 

I  shall  take  time  this  morning  to  call 
your  attention  to  four  incidents  in  his  , 
life,  and  mention  probably,  but  of 
course,  briefly,  some  connotations  of 
those  incidents,  I  repeat,  because  I  feel, 
and  know,  that  through  him  and  through 
him  only,  and  by  obedience  to  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  can  we  find 
happiness  and  salvation  in  this  world 
and  eternal  life  in  the  world  to  come. 
But  I  am  thinking  particularly  of  hap- 
piness and  joy  here  and  now,  in  this 
atomic  age. 

First,  recall  His  experience  on  the 
Mount  of  Temptation.  In  that  expe- 
rience we  find  taught  the  sublime  neces- 
sity of  subordinating  the  animal  part  of 
our  natures  to  the  spiritual.  Man  is  a 
dual  being — he  is  human,  physical,  of 
the  earth,  earthy,  but  he  is,  also,  divine, 
the  offspring  of  God. 

Well  might  Carlyle  say:  "There  are 
heights  in  man  which  reach  the  highest 
heaven,  and  depths  that  sink  to  the 
lowest  hell — for  are  not  both  heaven 
and  hell  made  out  of  him,  everlasting 
miracle  and  mystery  that  he  is?" 

"Beloved,"  said  John,  "now  are  we 
the  sons  of  God,  and  it  doth  not  yet 
appear  what  we  shall  be:  but  we  know 
that,  when  he  shall  appear,  we  shall 
be  like  him;  for  we  shall  see  him  as  he 
is."  (I  John  3:2.) 

On  the  Mount  of  Temptation  Jesus 
resisted  every  appeal  to  his  physical 
appetite — "  .  .  .  command  that  these 
stones  be  made  bread"; — every  appeal 
to  his  vanity; — "If  thou  be  the  son  of 
God  cast  thyself  down," — from  the  pin- 
nacle; every  appeal  to  his  selfishness  and 
pride,  every  bribe  offered  by  way  of 
power  and  wealth  in  exchange  for  spir- 
itual companionship  with  his  Father. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  2 

Resisting  all  he  said  to  the  tempter: 
"Get  thee  hence,  Satan:  for  it  is  writ- 
ten, Thou  shalt  worship  the  Lord  thy 
God,  and  him  only  shalt  thou  serve." 
(Matthew  4:10.) 

Value  of  Noble  Thoughts 

Then  during  his  brief  mission  among 
men,  he  emphasized  the  value  of  en- 
tertaining noble  thoughts,  what  you 
think  will  determine  your  character, 
not  alone  what  you  do,  and  knowing 
that  what  one  thinks  about  in  one's 
secret  moments  determines  what  he  is. 
He  "decried  the  fatal  effects  of  hatred 
and  jealousy  in  the  mind  of  the  indi- 
vidual more  vehemently  than  he  did 
the  acts  that  hate  and  jealousy  prompt. 
Modern  physiology  and  psychology 
confirm  the  practical  wisdom  of  his 
teachings.  These  evil  passions  destroy 
a  man's  physical  vigor  and  efficiency — 
they  pervert  his  mental  perceptions 
and  render  him  incapable  of  resisting 
the  temptations  to  commit  acts  of  vio- 
lence. They  undermine  his  moral 
health.  By  insidious  stages  they  trans- 
form the  man  who  cherishes  them  into 
a  criminal.  On  the  other  hand,  if  they 
are  banished,  and  wholesome,  kindly 
thoughts  and  emotions  take  their  place, 
the  man  is  incapable  of  crime.  Right 
thoughts  and  feelings,  if  persistently 
kept  in  the  forefront,  inevitably  lead 
to  right  acts."  "A  good  tree  bears  good 
fruit;  an  evil  tree,  evil  fruit."  (See  Matt. 
7:17.)  A  good  tree,  he  says,  cannot 
bring  forth  evil  fruit,  nor  an  evil  tree 
bring  forth  good  fruit.  That  teaching 
lies  at  the  very  bottom  of  Christ's 
ethical  teachings.  His  whole  effort  was 
to  make  the  tree  good,  for  when  that 
end  was  achieved,  the  good  qualities  of 
the  fruit  were  assured.  Resist  evil, 
members  of  the  Church,  young  and  old, 
and  the  devil  will  flee  from  you. 

The  second  incident  I  take  from  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount — a  mountain  in 
the  vicinity  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee.  "No 
man  can  serve  two  masters:  for  either 
he  will  hate  the  one,  and  love  the 
other;  or  else  he  will  hold  to  the  one, 
and  despise  the  other.   Ye  cannot  serve 


First  Day 

God  and  mammon."  (Ibid.,  6:24.)  Then 
he  added,  "But  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom 
of  God,  and  his  righteousness;  and  all 
these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 
(Ibid.,  6:33.)  Do  you  believe  that? 
I  believe  in  every  word  that  Jesus  spoke, 
and  to  me  the  teaching  is  applicable  in 
my  life  and  yours. 

Keeping  in  mind  the  fact  that  we 
are  the  children  of  our  Father  in  heaven, 
when  we  seek  the  kingdom  of  God,  first, 
we  become  conscious  of  a  new  aim  in 
life.  To  nourish  and  delight  the  body 
with  its  appetites  and  passions,  as  ani- 
mals do,  is  no  longer  the  chief  end  of 
mortal  existence.  Spiritual  attainments, 
not  physical  possessions  become  the 
chief  goal.  God  is  not  viewed  from  the 
standpoint  of  what  we  may  get  from 
him,  but  what  we  may  give  to  him. 
Only  in  the  complete  surrender  of  our 
inner  life  may  we  rise  above  the  selfish, 
sordid  pull  of  nature. 

"Giving  God  the  glory"  is  a  sure 
means  of  subduing  selfishness — a  will- 
ingness on  the  part  of  the  individual  to 
keep  God  as  the  ideal  in  his  life.  Faith, 
therefore,  is  a  foundation  element  in 
true  character  building;  for  an  upright 
character  is  the  result  only  of  con- 
tinued effort  and  right  thinking,  the 
effect  of  long-cherished  associations  with 
Godlike  thoughts.  He  approaches  near- 
est the  Christ  spirit  who  makes  God  the 
center  of  his  thoughts;  and  he  who  can 
say  in  his  heart,  "Not  my  will,  but 
thine  be  done,"  approaches  most  nearly 
the  Christ  ideal. 

Two  Great  Commandments 

The  third  incident  is  the  scene  with 
the  Pharisees  when  a  lawyer  asked  him: 
"Master,  which  is  the  great  command- 
ment in  the  law? 

"Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  love 
the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart, 
and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy 
mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  command- 
ment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it.  Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself." 
(Ibid.,  22:36-39.) 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


11 


For  two  thousand  years,  practically, 
men  have  considered  this  sublime  doc- 
trine as  impractical — too  ideal,  they  say, 
but  if  we  sincerely  believe  in  Christ's 
divinity,  that  he  is  "the  way,  the  truth, 
and  the  life"  (see  John  14:6),  we  can- 
not consistently  doubt  the  applicability 
of  his  teachings  to  everyday  life. 

True,  there  are  weighty  problems  to 
solve — evils  of  the  slums,  the  ever-re- 
curring conflicts  between  labor  and  capi- 
tal, drunkenness,  prostitution,  interna- 
tional hatreds,  and  a  hundred  other 
current  questions.  But  if  heeded, 
Christ's  appeal  for  personal  integrity, 
honor,  fair-dealing,  and  love  is  basic  in 
the  proper  solution  of  all  these  social 
and  economic  difficulties. 

Change  Men's  Hearts 

Most  certainly  before  the  world  even 
approaches  these  ideals,  men's  hearts 
must  be  changed.  Christ  came  into  the 
world  for  that  very  purpose.  The  prin- 
cipal reason  for  preaching  the  gospel  is 
to  change  men's  hearts  and  lives,  and 
you  brethren  who  go  from  stake  to  stake 
and  hear  the  evidence  and  testimony  of 
those  who  have  been  converted  recently 
through  the  stake  missionary  work,  can 
testify  how  the  conversion  has  changed 
their  lives,  as  they  have  given  their 
testimonies.  By  such  conversion  they 
bring  peace  and  good  will  to  the  world 
instead  of  strife,  suffering.  On  changing 
men's  hearts  Beverly  Nichols,  author  of 
The  Fool  Hath  Said,  writes  truly: 

"You  can  change  human  nature.  No 
man  who  has  felt  in  him  the  spirit  of 
Christ  even  for  a  half  minute  can  deny 
this  truth,  the  one  great  truth  in  a 
world  of  little  lies.  You  do  change 
human  nature,  your  own  human  nature 
if  you  surrender  it  to  him.  .  .  .  Human 
nature  must  be  changed  on  an  enormous 
scale  in  the  future  unless  the  world  is 
to  be  drowned  in  its  own  blood.  And 
only  Christ  can  change  it." 

"Live  in  all  things  outside  yourself 
by  love,"  says  Browning  through 
Paracelsus,  "and  you  shall  have  joy. 
This  is  the  life  of  God;  it  ought  to  be 
our  life.    In  him  it  was  perfect,  but 


in  all  created  things,  it  is  a  lesson 
learned  slowly  and  through  difficulty." 

Lesson  for  Youth 

The  fourth  scene  I  name  is  with  his 
disciples  just  before  Gethsemane,  when 
he  said,  "And  now  I  am  no  more  in 
the  world,  but  these  are  in  the 
world,  .  .  . 

"I  pray  not  that  thou  shouldest  take 
them  out  of  the  world,  but  that  thou 
shouldest  keep  them  from  the  evil." 
(John  17:11,  15.) 

There  is  your  lesson,  young  folk! 
You  are  in  the  midst  of  temptation,  but 
you,  as  Christ  on  the  Mount  of  Tempta- 
tion, can  rise  above  it. 

We  can  so  live,  it  is  possible,  that  as 
members  of  the  Church  we  can  say  to  all 
the  world  in  the  words  of  Thomas 
Nixon  Carver:  "Come,  our  way  of  life 
is  best  because  it  works  best.  Our 
people  are  efficient,  prosperous  and 
happy  because  we  are  a  body  who  aid 
one  another  in  the  productive  life.  We 
waste  none  of  our  substance  in  vice, 
luxury,  or  ostentation.  We  do  not 
dissipate  our  energy  in  brawling, 
gambling,  or  unwholesome  habits.  We 
conserve  our  resources  of  body  and  mind 
and  devote  them  to  the  upbuilding  of 
the  kingdom  of  God,  which  is  not  a 
mystical  but  a  real  kingdom.  We  be- 
lieve that  obedience  to  God  means 
obedience  to  the  laws  of  nature,  which 
are  but  the  manifestations  of  His  will; 
and  we  try  by  painstaking  study  to 
acquire  the  most  complete  and  exact 
knowledge  of  that  will,  in  order  that 
we  may  conform  ourselves  to  it." 

Yesterday,  in  this  Tabernacle,  seven  or 
eight  thousand  women  gathered — our 
mothers,  members  of  the  Relief  Society. 
I  wish  the  whole  Church  might  have 
partaken  of  the  spirit  of  that  great  con- 
ference. If  so,  we  should  have  greater 
assurance  in  our  souls  that  these  ideals 
to  which  I  have  made  brief  mention 
will  be  effective  throughout  the  world 
in  bringing  about  a  desire  for  greater 
spirituality,  a  greater  need  for  the  testi- 
mony that  God  lives,  that  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world, 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  2 

and  that  divine  beings  restored  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  as  he  established  it  in  the 
Meridian  of  Time. 

I  bear  you  that  testimony  this  morn- 
ing and  pray  that  the  influence  of 
priesthood  quorums,  of  auxiliaries,  and 
of  the  missionaries  may  be  more  ef- 
fective from  this  time  on  than  ever  be- 
fore in  leading  the  honest  in  heart  of 
the  whole  world  to  turn  their  eyes  up- 


First  Day 

ward  to  the  worship  of  God,  our  eternal 
Father,  and  give  them  power  to  control 
the  animal  nature  and  live  in  the  spirit, 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop  of 
the  Church. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


President  McKay,  my  beloved  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  this  has  been  a  most 
inspirational  hour.  I  am  sure  that 
the  Lord  has  manifested  through  his 
servant  the  course  that  he  wants  his 
children  to  follow  and  pursue  here  in 
mortality. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  do  you  believe 
God  is  the  same  yesterday,  today,  and 
forever? 

Do  you  believe  he  is  a  God  of  order 
in  all  things? 

Do  you  believe  that  he  governs  the 
universe  by  the  application  of  divine 
law? 

Many  would  answer  these  three  ques- 
tions as  follows:  some  in  the  affirma- 
tive, some  not  sure,  and  possibly  some 
negatively.  Those  who  are  not  spiritual- 
ly inclined  might  indicate  that  they 
believe  there  is  a  God,  a  higher  intelli- 
gence which  governs  the  universe,  and 
they  point  out  some  of  the  evidences 
that  are  found  in  the  many  forms  of 
nature — the  orderly  sequence  of  the  sea- 
sons, each  in  its  place,  spring,  summer, 
autumn,  and  winter,  and  to  the  crea- 
tion of  storms  based  upon  the  applica- 
tion of  divine  principles;  the  sun,  the 
moon,  and  the  stars  all  held  in  their 
orbits  by  the  application  of  the  laws 
and  powers  best  known  to  the  Creator. 

The  scientist  in  his  laboratory  slowly 
unravels  the  wonders  of  the  creation 
which  evidences  the  existence  of  a  di- 
vine being  by  whom  the  universe  was 
created,   by  whose  hand  the  animal 


world,  the  vegetable  world,  and  the 
mineral  world  are  ruled. 

I  wish  to  submit  another  question: 
What  of  man  and  woman,  son  and 
daughter  of  the  Creator  of  the  universe, 
created  in  his  image,  according  to 
Genesis  1:27? 

So  God  created  man  in  his  own  image, 
in  the  image  of  God  created  he  him;  male 
and  female  created  he  them. 

Then  another  question:  Is  there  a 
definite  set  of  laws  for  the  spiritual  and 
the  mental  growth  and  progress  of  man 
to  the  end  that  he  might  enjoy  salva- 
tion and  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of 
our  heavenly  Father?  Again  some  may 
answer  in  the  affirmative;  some  may 
doubt;  some  may  have  a  negative  atti- 
tude. 

Definitely  fixed  laws  and  powers 
govern  nature,  planets,  and  the  universe 
which  can  only  be  changed  by  the  will 
of  God.  Man,  the  greatest  of  God's 
creations,  can  and  does  fix  the  laws  that 
govern  his  mortal  life  regardless  of  any 
divine  plan  that  was  devised  for  his 
good.  He  is  blessed  with  intelligence 
far  above  all  the  other  creations.  Hence, 
he  knows  the  difference  between  good 
and  bad,  and  being  blessed  with  the 
divine  gift  of  free  agency,  can  decide 
what  course  he  will  pursue  in  life. 

Recently,  a  noted  reverend  doctor  de- 
clared, "There  is  nothing  to  the  One 
Church  Idea,"  which,  from  my  point 
of  view,  is  an  admission  by  the  reverend 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHL1N 


13 


doctor  that  there  is  not  anything  to  the 
idea  o;  a  divine  plan  for  the  blessing 
of  our  heavenly  Father's  children.  There 
are  many  who  think  as  the  reverend 
doctor,  and  they  say,  "After  all,  we 
are  all  striving  towards  eternal  life. 
It  makes  no  difference  which  path  we 
follow,  for  our  destination  is  the  same." 
To  advocate  there  is  but  one  God,  one 
faith,  and  one  baptism  is  considered  by 
many  to  be  narrow  and  unjust. 

In  this  day  and  age  the  words  of 
Paul  are  applicable  when  he  declared 
to  the  Galatians: 

I  marvel  that  ye  are  so  soon  removed 
from  him  that  called  you  into  the  grace 
of  Christ  unto  another  gospel.  (Galatians 
1:6.) 

The  concept  of  the  Godhead  has 
changed  since  the  days  of  the  Savior. 
He  said: 

...  he  that  hath  seen  me  hath  seen  the 
Father.  .  .  .  (John  14:9.) 

The  idea  of  one  Church,  one  gospel, 
and  in  fact,  one  Savior,  in  the  minds 
of  many,  is  a  fallacy. 

It  would  not  be  consistent  thinking 
to  believe  that  God  is  orderly  in  the 
governing  of  the  universe  and  indifferent 
and  disorderly  in  providing  a  plan  of 
life  and  salvation  for  his  greatest  crea- 
tion, namely,  his  children. 

But  in  the  midst  of  all  of  this  con- 
fusion and  so-called  broadmindedness 
by  the  teachers  of  man-made  religions, 
the  voice  of  a  young  Prophet  was  heard, 
coming  from  western  New  York,  .a  young 
man  who  again  declared  that  there  is 
one  Church,  one  God,  one  faith,  one 
baptism.  This  young  man  dared  to  tell 
the  world  that  he  actually  saw  the 
Father  and  the  Son.  He  reaffirmed  to 
the  world  that  God  was  a  personage 
with  body,  parts,  and  passions;  that 
Jesus  Christ,  the  despised  Nazarene  who 
was  crucified  upon  Calvary's  hill,  actual- 
ly lived.  He  conversed  and  talked  with 
him.  He  received  definite  instructions, 
and  among  other  things,  the  resur- 
rected Savior  said: 

.  .  .  they  draw  near  to  me  with  their  lips, 


but  their  hearts  are  far  from  me.  .  .  . 
(Joseph  Smith  2:19.) 

This  young  American  Prophet  boldly 
declared  to  the  world  that  an  angel 
had  appeared  to  him  and  entrusted  to 
his  care  an  ancient  record  which  con- 
tained the  history  of  the  dealings  of 
the  Lord  with  the  people  that  lived 
upon  this,  the  American  continent  in 
ancient  times,  and  there  was  contained 
in  this  sacred  record  the  divine  plan 
of  salvation  given  to  mankind  through 
Jesus  Christ  when  he  visited  the  peo- 
ple upon  the  American  continent. 

He  declared  to  the  world  that  John 
the  Baptist  appeared  to  him  and  con- 
ferred upon  him  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood; that  Peter,  James,  and  John,  the 
former  apostolic  Presidency,  bestowed 
upon  him  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood; 
that  Elijah  came  and  gave  him  the  keys 
for  the  work  of  the  dead,  Moses  the 
keys  of  gathering,  and  Elias  the  re- 
turn of  the  spirit  of  the  gospel. 

In  fact,  he  declared  to  the  world  that 
the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
had  been  restored  to  the  earth  with 
the  priesthood  of  God  and  all  the  of- 
fices and  officers  that  existed  in  the  an- 
cient Church. 

The  reaction  to  his  divine  message 
and  tidings  of  great  joy  was  received 
with  scorn.  He  was  looked  upon  as  a 
bigot,  narrow-minded.  Finally,  he 
sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood. 

Now,  let  us  go  to  the  law  and  the 
testimony  to  determine  whether  or  not 
the  claims  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  were 
false  or  true.  All  Christians  accept  the 
Bible  as  the  law  and  the  testimony. 

First:  Did  the  Savior  establish  one 
Church  or  many  churches? 

Second:  Were  there  definitely  as- 
signed officers  in  the  Church? 

Third:  Was  there  divine  authority 
upon  the  earth  and  one  gospel? 

Reading  from  I  Corinthians,  12th 
Chapter,  28th  Verse: 

And  God  hath  set  some  in  the  church, 
first  apostles,  secondarily  prophets,  thirdly 
teachers,  after  that  miracles,  then  gifts  of 
healings,  helps,  governments,  diversities  of 
tongues. 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  2 

Here  we  see  the  servant  of  God  speak- 
ing of  the  Church,  one  church  not  many 
churches. 

And  again  we  read  in  Ephesians 
5:23: 

For  the  husband  is  the  head  of  the  wife, 
even  as  Christ  is  the  head  of  the  church: 
and  he  is  the  saviour  of  the  body. 

— one  Church,  only  one,  of  which  Christ 
was  the  head. 

Therefore  as  the  church  is  subject  unto 
Christ,  so  let  the  wives  be  to  their  own 
husbands  in  every  thing.  (Ibid.,  5:24.) 

Here  is  evidence  where  Christ  is  the 
head  of  the  Church,  one  Church  not 
many  churches. 

And  again  in  Ephesians  4,  Verses  4 
and  5: 

There  is  one  body  [one  church],  and  one 
Spirit,  even  as  ye  are  called  in  one  hope 
of  your  calling; 

One  Lord,  one  faith,  one  baptism. 

These  are  a  few  of  the  evidences 
found  in  the  law  and  testimony  which 
bear  out  the  great  truth —  there  was 
but  one  church  organized  by  the  Savior 
during  his  ministry,  and  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  his  Church,  there  was  but 
one  organization,  and  in  that  organiza- 
tion there  were  definitely  assigned  offi- 
cers endowed  with  divine  authority  from 
on  high. 

We  read  from  Ephesians  2:20  and  21: 

And  are  built  upon  the  foundation  of  the 
apostles  and  prophets,  Jesus  Christ  himself 
being  the  chief  corner  stone; 

In  whom  all  the  building  fitly  framed 
together  groweth  unto  an  holy  temple  in 
the  Lord. 

Here  twelve  men  were  duly  ordained 
and  set  apart  as  the  Twelve  Apostles 
of  the  first  Church.  We  read  in  Mark 
3:14,  that  he  ordained  the  twelve,  "... 
that  they  should  be  with  him,  and  that 
he  might  send  them  forth  to  preach," 
the  gospel,  to  represent  this  great  organ- 
ization, the  one  Church,  and  proclaim 
the  gospel  to  the  known  world  of  that 
time. 


First  Day 


We  read  in  Acts  11:22: 

Then  tidings  of  these  things  came  unto 
the  ears  of  the  church  which  was  in  Jeru- 
salem: and  they  sent  forth  Barnabas,  that 
he  should  go  as  far  as  Antioch. 

Here  we  see  a  duly  authorized  servant 
of  God  being  sent  by  the  Church  by 
those  who  were  in  authority  in  Jeru- 
salem to  Antioch  to  take  care  of 
Church  affairs. 

The  Savior  makes  it  very  clear  when 
he  stated  to  the  people  in  Matthew 
7:13-14  (speaking  of  one  Church, 
speaking  of  one  organization  with 
definitely  ordained  servants  in  the  same, 
and  one  gospel) : 

Enter  ye  in  at  the  strait  gate:  for  wide  is 
the  gate,  and  broad  is  the  way,  that  leadeth 
to  destruction,  and  many  there  be  which 
go  in  thereat: 

Because  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  is 
the  way,  which  leadeth  unto  life,  and  few 
there  be  that  find  it. 

This  statement  of  the  Savior  to  the 
world  is  definite  and  clear  to  the  point 
that  there  can  be  but  one  way,  his  way, 
through  his  organization,  the  Church 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ — the  one 
Church. 

In  his  Church  are  found  according  to 
Paul  in  his  message  to  the  Ephesians 
4:11: 

And  he  gave  some,  apostles;  and  some, 
prophets;  and  some,  evangelists;  and  some, 
pastors  and  teachers. 

Christ  was  a  high  priest  after  the 
order  of  Melchizedek.  We  read  in 
Hebrews  3:1: 

Wherefore,  holy  brethren,  partakers  of 
the  heavenly  calling,  consider  the  Apostle 
and  High  Priest  of  our  profession,  Christ 
Jesus. 

In  other  words,  all  of  the  Apostles  re- 
ceived the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 
They  received  their  apostolic  calling 
from  Jesus  Christ. 

We  find  in  Luke  10:1,  where  there 
are  seventies  spoken  of  and  who  were 
sent  out  two  and  two  to  every  city  and 
place,  whither  he,  the  Church,  would 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHL1N 


15 


In  Acts  15:2,  we  read  where  Paul  and 
Barnabas  were  going  to  settle  a  certain 
dispute,  and  they  were  sent  up  to  Jeru- 
salem to  consult  the  Apostles  and  the 
elders  about  this  question,  elders  in  the 
Church. 

We  find  in  Philippians  1:1: 

Paul  and  Timotheus,  the  servants  of 
Jesus  Christ,  to  all  the  saints  in  Christ 
Jesus  which  are  at  Philippi,  with  the  bish- 
ops and  deacons. 

There  were  bishops  in  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church  as  Christ  established 
it. 

In  Luke  1:5,  we  read  of  Zacharias,  the 
priest.  We  read  of  this  same  priest  in 
Luke  1:8. 

In  Ephesians  4:11,  Paul  speaks  of 
ordained  teachers.  In  Philippians  1:1 
the  deacons  are  mentioned. 

In  Ephesians  4:11,  are  found  evange- 
lists or  patriarchs. 

As  we  carefully  peruse  the  law  and 
the  testimony,  we  find  there  was  but 
•one  Church  organized  by  the  Christ. 
He  gave  to  the  world  but  one  gospel 
plan  for  the  salvation  and  exaltation  of 
mankind,  and  the  priesthood  of  God, 
and  in  it  officers  duly  ordained  and  au- 
thorized to  serve  in  his  kingdom  upon 
the  earth,  his  Church — one  Church. 

There  were  certain  initiatory  ordi- 
nances that  had  to  be  met  to  gain  citizen- 
ship in  the  kingdom  or  membership  in 
the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
This  was  best  illustrated  on  the  Day 
of  Pentecost  when  a  multitude  of  peo- 
ple were  gathered  together,  and  Peter 
bore  his  testimony  so  strongly  and 
impressively  as  to  the  mission  of  the  cru- 
cified Savior  that  that  great  multitude 
arose  as  one  man  and  asked  the  ques- 
tion, "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall 
we  do?"  Peter  answered  them: 

Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your 
children,  and  to  all  that  are  afar  off,  even 
.as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call. 
(Acts  2:38-39.) 


Here  are  the  principles  and  the 
ordinances  whereby  the  children  of  our 
heavenly  Father  might  enjoy  member- 
ship in  the  one  Church,  the  Church  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  might  digress  long  enough  to  say 
that  there  are  different  forms  of  baptism 
upon  the  earth,  I  speak  specifically  of 
baptism  by  pouring  or  sprinkling  for 
children.  As  I  understand  the  words  of 
Peter  on  the  Day  of  Pentecost,  baptism 
was  for  the  purpose  of  forgiving  sins. 
Small  children  are  not  guilty  of  sins 
because  they  do  not  know  the  difference 
between  good  and  bad,  and  the  Savior 
said,  "Suffer  little  children  to  come  unto 
me,  ...  for  of  such  is  the  kingdom  of 
God."  (Luke  18:16.) 

It  was  a  great  source  of  inspiration 
and  encouragement  to  future  generations 
when  Peter  promised  in  a  distant  day 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  or  the  spir- 
itual baptism  would  be  available  to 
those  afar  off  and  those  who  were  afar 
off,  I  believe,  are  the  people  that  live 
in  this  generation. 

And  coming  back  to  the  Apostles  of 
Christ's  day,  they  observed  a  falling 
away — the  apostasy  was  underway,  for 
Paul  declared  to  the  Galatians: 

I  marvel  that  ye  are  so  soon  removed 
from  him  that  called  you  into  the  grace 
of  Christ  unto  another  gospel.  (Gal.  1:16.) 

The  Apostles  were  blessed  with 
prophetic  vision  for  we  read  in  Acts 
3:19: 

Repent  ye  therefore,  and  be  converted, 
that  your  sins  may  be  blotted  out,  when  the 
times  of  refreshing  shall  come  from  the 
presence  of  the  Lord. 

And  continuing  on  in  Acts  3:20  and 
21: 

And  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ,  which 
before  was  preached  unto  you: 

Whom  the  heaven  must  receive  until  the 
times  of  restitution  of  all  things,  which 
God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his 
holy  prophets  since  the  world  began. 

The  apostasy  was  foreseen,  and  God 
revealed  there  would  be  a  restitution, 
a  restoration  of  all  things  before  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


16 

Friday,  October  2 

second  coming  of  the  Christ. 

I  think  all  Christians  will  admit  that 
Christ  atoned  for  all  men,  hence  all 
men  will  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the 
resurrection. 

Joseph  Smith  taught  the  world  that 
in  the  plan  of  the  gospel  as  it  is  repre- 
sented in  Mormonism,  there  will  be  a 
place  for  all  of  the  Lord's  children  on 
the  basis  of  merit  as  revealed  in  Revela- 
tion 20:12: 

And  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and  great, 
stand  before  God;  and  the  books  were 
opened:  and  another  book  was  opened,  which 
is  the  book  of  life:  and  the  dead  were 
judged  out  of  those  things  which  were 
written  in  the  books,  according  to  their 
works. 

Modern  revelation  teaches  us  in  the 
76th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, that  all  men,  the  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  God,  will  enjoy  a  place  in  one 
of  the  glories  prepared  for  them,  accord- 
ing to  their  deeds  in  the  flesh. 

I  ask  you  if  this  is  narrow.  I  ask  if 
this  is  bigotry.  But  I  want  to  say  to 
you,  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  the 
broadest  plan  of  salvation  that  has  been 
given  to  the  world  since  the  Savior  was 
crucified  for  the  sins  of  all  men: 

For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave 
his  only  begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  be- 
lieveth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have 
everlasting  life.  (John  3:16.) 

It  is  a  glorious  truth  and  blessing  to 
enjoy  membership  in  the  Church,  the 
one  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
restored  to  the  earth  in  exactly  the  same 
form  as  it  existed  when  Christ  estab- 
lished it  first  twenty  centuries  ago.  Each 
and  everyone  of  us  can  testify  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  we  know 
that  God  is  the  same  yesterday,  today, 
and  forever;  that  he  is  a  God  of  order 
in  all  things;  and  that  he  spoke  person- 
ally to  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  assigned 
him  the  great  task  to  establish  upon  the 
earth  the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  the  one  Church,  the  one  gospel, 
and  teach  the  world  that  there  was  but 
one  Savior,  the  Son  of  God. 

Personally,  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the 


First  Day 

restored  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
as  it  has  been  given  to  us  through  his 
Prophet.  I  want  to  testify  to  you  that 
there  is  but  one  Church,  and  that  is 
the  Church  that  carries  his  name,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  want  to  testify  to  you,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  there  stands  at  the 
head  of  this  one  Church  of  the  Christ, 
a  Prophet,  an  Apostle,  who  has  all  the 
same  rights,  keys,  and  authority  that 
were  enjoyed  by  Peter  in  the  beginning, 
and  that  the  same  is  equally  true  of  the 
Twelve,  and  all  of  those  who  preside 
in  high  places  in  this  great  organiza- 
tion. 

Certainly,  when  God  the  Father  de- 
clared: 

For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my- 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and_ 
eternal  life  of  man,  (Moses  1:39) 

he  devised  a  plan  whereby  this  could 
be  done,  and  an  organization  through 
which  it  could  be  accomplished,  namely, 
the  organization  of  the  Church  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

That  is  my  testimony  to  you.  I  thank 
God  for  it.  I  hope  that  every  member 
of  this  Church  will  have  that  same  wit- 
ness in  his  heart  and  that  the  children 
of  men,  as  the  prophet  of  God  called  all 
men  this  morning  to  repent  of  their 
ways  and  accept  of  this  divine  plan, 
and  thus  prevent  the  catastrophe  which 
now  faces  the  world.  If  the  world  will 
follow  this  divine  counsel,  there  is  no 
question  but  what  we  can  live  in  the 
Spirit  of  the  Christ,  namely,  the  spirit 
of  peace,  for  which  all  nations  are 
struggling. 

May  God  bless  us.  May  we  express 
our  appreciation  day  by  day  for  our 
membership  and  our  many  opportunities 
for  salvation  and  exaltation  in  the 
kingdom  of  God,  I  humbly  ask,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presid- 
ing Bishop  of  the  Church,  has  just, 
concluded  speaking. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


17 


The  Choir  and  Congregation  will  now 
sing,  "High  On  the  Mountain  Top," 
two  stanzas,  led  by  Brother  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  for  whose  restoration  to 
health  enabling  him  to  be  with  us  this 
morning,  we  are  grateful. 

After  the  singing,  we  will  hear  from 


our  concluding  speaker,  who  will  be 
Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young,  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy. 


Singing  by  the  Choir  and  congrega- 
tion, "High  On  The  Mountain  Top." 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


This  morning  as  President  McKay  and 
Bishop  Wirthlin  spoke,  I  thought  to 
myself  that  it  is  our  job  to  implement 
the  work  of  the  Church,  the  divinity  and 
purpose  of  which  President  McKay  bore 
witness,  and  the  inspired  organization 
to  which  Bishop  Wirthlin  testified. 
Somehow  we  must,  ourselves,  through 
the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  and  through 
his  guidance,  make  the  destined  goal  a 
reality. 

There  were  in  the  Church,  in  the 
stakes  of  Zion,  on  December  31,  1952, 
1870  quorums  of  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood that  totalled,  in  round  numbers, 
138,400  men.  All  of  these  hold  the 
right  and  the  privilege  to  preach  the 
gospel,  when  called,  to  any  portion  of 
the  earth  or  within  their  own  stakes. 
Twenty-eight  thousand,  nine  hundred 
fifty  of  these  men,  for  various  rea- 
sons, are  not  available  to  the  wards  or 
to  the  stakes  in  which  they  live.  Some 
are  on  missions;  15,000  are  engaged  in 
Church  activity  other  than  quorum 
work,  five  thousand  are  away  from  home; 
and  more  than  five  thousand  are  in 
the  armed  services.  That  leaves  a  total 
of  109,000  men,  however,  who  are  avail- 
able. It  depends  upon  the  strength  of 
their  testimony  and  upon  what  they 
intend  to  do  with  this  great  gospel,  as 
to  whether  or  not  we  are  to  succeed 
in  what  President  McKay  has  so 
earnestly  pleaded  for  this  morning. 

I  estimate  that  there  are  in  each 
quorum  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood, 
an  average  of  forty-eight  men  who  will 
not,  normally,  have  direction  from  any 
ecclesiastical  heads  as  to  what  they  shall 
do  except  by  their  quorum  presidents. 


They  will  not  be  used  by  bishops  in  the 
wards;  they  will  not  be  used  by  the 
stake  officers;  and  if  they  have  any  as- 
signed tasks,  it  will  be  because  the  presi- 
dents of  their  quorums  assign  them. 
Therein,  in  my  opinion,  lies  the  acid 
test  of  quorum  leadership. 

When  I  was  a  good  deal  younger,  I 
read  a  verse  of  scripture.  The  first  read- 
ing thrilled  me.  I  was  filled  with  won- 
der, and  awed  at  its  implications.  This 
is  the  scripture: 

Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me, 
Abraham,  the  intelligences  that  were  or- 
ganized before  the  world  was;  and  among 
all  these  there  were  many  of  the  noble  and 
great  ones; 

And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were 
good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst  of  them, 
and  he  said:  These  I  will  make  my  rulers; 
for  he  stood  among  those  that  were  spirits, 
and  he  saw  that  they  were  good;  and  he 
said  unto  me:  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of 
them;  thou  wast  chosen  before  thou  wast 
bom.  (Abraham  3:22-23.) 

I  confess  that  when  I  read  these  words 
for  the  first  time,  there  sprang  into  my 
heart  an  intense  hope,  if  a  person  can 
have  a  hope  in  reverse  order,  that  I 
might,  personally,  have  been  one  of 
those  in  whose  midst  the  Savior  stood 
when  choosing  those  to  be  born  as 
leaders  on  earth.  I  believe  every  young 
man  who  has  any  feeling  for  this 
Church  gets  that  thought.  I  think  I  am 
not  alone  in  it,  at  all. 

The  Lord  revealed  to  Abraham  that 
he  was  one  so  chosen.  Now  Abraham 
was  called  by  the  Lord  out  of  the 
Chaldees  to  go  and  settle  in  Canaan. 
The  Lord  was  testing  him.    I  believe 


18  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  2 

that  the  Lord  tests  his  leaders,  even 
his  greatest  leaders,  by  entrusting  them 
with  small  positions  where  they  will 
lead  but  few  people.  If  they  prove 
worthy,  and  unwaveringly  lead  these 
people  toward  their  exaltation,  he  then 
adds  more  and  more  responsibility  until 
there  is  no  limit  to  capacity,  develop- 
ment, and  glory  of  that  leader. 

I  remember  with  a  good  deal  of  feel- 
ing the  words  with  which  Abraham 
described  his  action.  He  left  the 
Chaldees  with  such  souls  "as  we  had 
won  in  Haran."  I  think  those  souls 
were  few.  In  my  humble  opinion, 
Abraham  led  out  of  that  land  a  group 
of  people  corresponding  in  size  to  a 
quorum  of  elders.  Probably  when  he 
first  started  out,  he  had  perhaps  fifty  or 
sixty,  and  the  Lord  tested  him  to  see  if 
he  would  lead  them  as  directed,  and  he 
did. 

Now,  brethren,  statistically  you  have 
about  fifty  men  in  your  quorums  avail- 
able for  assignment.  You  young 
elders'  presidencies,  you  young  men 
who  have  enthusiasm  but  not  yet  much 
practice  in  the  business  of  doing  Church 
work,  if  you  are  to  lead  fifty  men  and 
can  lead  them  into  righteousness,  if  you 
do  it  successfully,  the  Lord  will  en- 
large you  and  will  bring  upon  you 
greater  leadership,  until  finally  you  will 
find  place  among  those  to  whom  he  re- 
ferred when  he  spoke  to  Abraham  as 
being  among  those  who  would  become; 
his  leaders. 

You  do  not  have  to  preside  over  the 
Church,  or  over  a  stake,  or  over  a  ward 
to  qualify  for  such  a  great  thing.  How- 
ever, I  do  think  that  if  you  preside 
over  a  quorum  of  the  priesthood,  if  it 
is  your  responsibility  to  bring  into  ac- 
tivity any  man,  then  unless  you  bring 
that  man  into  activity,  you  are  not 
measuring  up  to  what  the  Lord  had  in 
mind  when  he  inspired  the  president 
of  the  stake  to  call  you  to  that  exalted 
position. 

And  what  I  say  about  an  elder  applies 
equally  well  to  a  seventy  or  to  a  high 
priest.  It  matters  not.  All  are  offices  in 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  and  it  is 


First  Dan 

this  priesthood  which  will  enlarge  this 
Church  and  fill  the  earth. 

Let  us  not,  therefore,  brethren,  fall 
down  in  that  responsibility.  Let  us 
not  worry,  brethren  of  the  quorums, 
about  the  men  whom  the  bishops  call. 
Those  men  are  taken  care  of,  they  have 
something  to  do.  But  let  us  not  rest 
until  the  men  who  do  not  have  exact 
responsibility  are  given  such  responsi- 
bility through  quorum  activity.  Then 
we  shall  grow  and  then  we  shall  flourish 
upon  the  mountain.  Great  will  be  our 
joy,  for  we  shall  sing  praises  and 
hosannahs  to  the  most  high  God,  as 
we  see  his  great  work  coming  to  fruition. 

I  add  my  testimony  to  that  of  Bishop 
Wirthlin,  that  there  stands  at  the  head 
of  this  Church  a  prophet,  a  seer,  and 
a  revelator,  and  that  those  who  preside 
with  him,  and  who,  under  his  direction, 
direct  the  affairs  of  this  Church  are  like- 
wise prophets  and  seers  and  revelators, 
and  I  uphold  and  sustain  them  with  all 
my  heart.  I  pray  that  I  can  do  it  with 
all  my  strength,  for  unless  a  person 
does  it  with  all  his  strength,  as  well  as 
with  his  heart,  not  much  is  ac- 
complished. 

This  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened 
is  President  S.  Dilworth  Young,  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with,  "God  Shall 
Wipe  Away  All  Tears,"  conducted  by 
Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Glen  G.  Fisher,  formerly  Presi- 
dent of  the  Western  Canadian  Mission, 
after  which  this  conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  2:00  o'clock  this  after- 
noon. 

Will  you  please  listen  carefully  to 
announcements  and  important  messages 
that  will  be  given  over  the  loud  speak- 
ing system  on  the  grounds  at  the  con- 
clusion of  this  session.  All  similar 
messages  coming  in  later  will  likewise 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


19 


be  broadcast  at  the  close  of  each  gen- 
eral session,  without  further  notice. 

The  music  as  heretofore  announced  is 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  17  stakes  in  the  Central 
Utah  and  Mount  Timpanogos  Regions, 
conducted  by  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen;  Brother  Alexander  Schreiner 
is  at  the  organ.  I  am  sure  I  speak  your 
sentiments,  after  having  heard  those  in- 
spirational musical  numbers  this  morn- 
ing, that  too  much  praise  cannot  be  ex- 
pressed for  the  work  and  skill  of  Sister 
Madsen.  Perhaps  you  do  not  know 
that  these  sisters  have  been  practicing 
for  several  months,  and  so  far  as  possible 
Sister  Madsen  has  visited  groups  and 


has  helped  them  in  the  singing  of  these 
beautiful,  inspirational  hymns  and 
anthems.  But  after  that,  really  the  only 
opportunity  she  has  had,  for  practice 
with  the  groups,  is  since  they  have  come 
here  to  Salt  Lake  City.  How  masterful- 
ly, inspirationally  they  sing  under  this 
inspired  director. 

"God  shall  wipe  away  all  tears,"  by 
the  Singing  Mothers. 


The  Singing  Mothers  sang:  "God 
Shall  Wipe  Away  All  Tears." 

Elder  Glen  G.  Fisher  offered  the  clos- 
ing prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  at  2:00  p.m., 
Friday,  October  2. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  Stakes  in  the  Central  Utah  and 
Mount  Timpanogos  regions  furnished 
the  choral  music  for  this  session  of  the 
Conference,  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen,  Conductor. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

These  lovely  bouquets  of  flowers  that 
you  see  on  each  side  of  the  pulpit  are 
antirrhinums  from  the  Oahu  Stake, 
Honolulu.  We  appreciate  the  kindness 
of  the  thoughtful  members  in  Oahu  in 
sending  these  flowers  by  airplane  to 
contribute  to  the  pleasure  and  inspira- 
tion of  our  Conference. 

We  shall  begin  the  services  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  render- 
ing "Out  of  the  Depths  Have  I  Cried 
Unto  Thee,"  conducted  by  Sister  Flor- 
ence Jepperson  Madsen.  The  opening 
prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Harold 


Brown,  formerly  President  of  the  Argen- 
tine Mission: 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang  the  anthem,  "Out  Of  The  Depths 
Have  I  Cried  Unto  Thee." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

For  some  unaccountable  but  I  am  sure 
excusable  reason,  Brother  Harold  Brown 
has  missed  this  meeting.  We  shall  ask 
President  Willard  Smith,  President  of 
the  Cardston  Temple  to  offer  the  in- 
vocation. 


Willard  L.  Smith,  President  of  the 
Alberta  Temple,  offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  "How  Lovely 
Is  Thy  Dwelling  Place,"  conducted 
by  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  October  2  First  Day> 

Following  the  singing,  Elder  Clifford  E.  The  Singing  Mothers  rendered  the 
Young,  Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  sacred  selection,  "How  Lovely  Is  Thy 
Twelve,  will  speak  to  us.  Dwelling  Place." 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS '  It  Seems 
to  me  that  every  time  I  stand  in 
this  position  I  feel  less  sure  of 
myself.  I  recognize  that  as  we  go  out 
in  the  stakes,  there  is  a  warmth  of  feel- 
ing between  the  congregation  of  the 
Saints  and  those  who  visit  their  con- 
ferences from  time  to  time,  and  there 
should  be  no  difference  in  this  meeting, 
because  that  same  spirit  of  warmth  and 
fellowship  is  multiplied  by  the  increased 
numbers  that  are  here,  and  yet  not- 
withstanding that,  this  vast  congrega- 
tion, and  consciousness  of  the  fact  that 
there  are  so  many  listening  in  on  the 
outside,  presents  a  challenge  indeed. 

I  have  undertaken  today  to  write 
what  I  would  like  to  say  in  the  interest 
of  time,  and  I  sincerely  hope  that  the 
Lord  will  be  with  all  of  us,  that  what 
I  shall  say  may  be  of  benefit  to  you  and 
to  me,  and  give  us  increased  faith. 

Since  our  last  conference  it  has  been 
my  privilege  to  visit  two  of  the  missions 
of  the  Church,  one  in  southern  Cali- 
fornia and  one  in  eastern  Canada.  I 
have  been  thrilled  with  the  splendid 
work  that  is  being  done  by  our  mission- 
aries. It  seems  to  me  they  are  doing 
more  effective  work  than  ever  in  our 
history.  They  do  not  go  out  with  a 
spirit  of  antagonism  toward  any  church 
or  any  people,  but  rather  in  the  spirit 
of  the  counsel  that  was  given  in  the 
early  history  of  the  Church  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  when  he  said  that  we 
should  contend  against  no  church,  save 
it  be  the  church  of  the  evil  one,  that  we 
should  take  upon  ourselves  the  name 
of  Christ,  and  speak  the  truth  in  sober- 
ness, and  that  as  many  as  repented  and 
were  baptized  in  his  name,  which  is 
Jesus  Christ,  and  endured  to  the  end, 
should  be  saved.  He  also  said  that 
we  should  declare  glad  tidings,  publish 


them  upon  the  mountains  and  upon 
every  high  place  and  among  every 
people  that  we  should  be  permitted  to 
see.  We  should  do  it  with  all  humility,, 
trusting  in  him,  reviling  not  the  re- 
vilers,  and  of  tenets  we  should  not  talk, 
but  should  declare  repentance  and  faith 
on  the  Savior,  and  the  remission  of 
sins  by  baptism  and  by  fire,  yea,  even 
the  Holy  Ghost.  It  is  in  this  spirit  that 
our  missionaries  are  counseled  to  go 
from  house  to  house,  preaching  and 
bearing  witness  of  the  restored  gospel 
of  Christ.  We  recognize  the  fact  that 
the  world  is  full  of  good  people,  that 
they  have  their  religious  convictions  and 
traditions,  traditions  that  are  deeply 
rooted  from  ages  past.  We  do  not  ask 
them  to  give  up  any  truths  that  they 
have,  but  we  do  ask  that  they  re-appraise 
their  faith  and  their  religion,  their 
church,  to  see  if  they  harmonize  with 
that  which  was  taught  by  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  Our  missionaries  do 
not  present  a  message  of  a  new  church; 
it  is  a  message  of  the  restored  Church. 
We  do  not  have  a  new  gospel.  It  is  the 
gospel  that  was  preached  by  Jesus 
Christ,  the  same  yesterday,  today,  and 
forever.  Our  position  as  Latter-day 
Saints  is  that  we  are  entrusted  with  the 
responsibility  of  establishing  the  king- 
dom of  God  in  the  earth,  that  it  may 
prepare  mankind  for  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  that  is  to  come.  We  feel  that 
there  is  no  greater  message  that  can  be 
brought  to  the  children  of  men  than  one 
that  will  make  men  conscious  of  error 
and  turn  them  to  the  truth.  Repentance 
is  a  grand  Christian  act.  It  is  not  only 
Christian,  but  it  is  also  divine. 

This  missionary  activity  is  a  great 
contribution  to  our  missionary's  life, 
whether  he  be  young  or  old.  For  two 
or  more  years,  he  is  in  the  field  of  a 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


21 


■spiritual  uplift.  He  learns  to  pray  as 
he  never  did  before.  He  learns  to  draw 
near  to  God,  and  he  finds  that  God 
draws  near  to  him.  He  learns  that 
there  is  only  one  way  to  every  human 
heart,  and  that  is  through  humility  and 
prayer.  He  learns  to  be  tolerant  with 
his  fellow  men.  Through  study  he 
learns  to  enrich  his  mind,  enlarge  his 
soul  with  the  thoughts  of  great  men,  men 
of  God,  prophets  of  God,  and  thus  he 
grows  in  knowledge  and  wisdom. 

In  the  mission  field  a  missionary  is 
often  tempted,  but  he  does  not  yield. 
Thus  he  becomes  brave  and  strong, 
strong  physically,  mentally,  morally, 
and  above  all,  spiritually.  A  mission- 
ary often  has  great  decisions  to  make, 
decisions  that  many  times  are  beyond 
the  wisdom  of  his  youth. 

I  recall  an  experience  that  was  related 
by  President  J.  Robert  Price,  former 
president  of  the  Central  Atlantic  States 
Mission,  as  he  met  with  us  on  one  oc- 
casion in  the  temple,  telling  of  two 
young  missionaries  who  had  just  recent- 
ly come  into  the  field,  neither  of  whom 
had  had  much  experience.  Brother 
Price  had  received  a  message  that  one 
of  the  families  was  having  some  diffi- 
culty, marital  trouble  as  I  remember, 
and  so  these  two  young,  inexperienced 
missionaries  were  sent  to  this  home.  On 
entering  the  home,  one  of  the  elders 
asked  if  it  would  be  in  order  with  the 
family  that  they  first  kneel  in  prayer. 
And  so  they  all  knelt  down,  and  the 
young  elder  who  led  asked  that  the 
Lord  would  guide  in  the  proceedings 
that  should  follow,  that  the  differences 
could  be  composed  in  that  home,  and 
that  peace  could  be  established.  And 
he  prayed  for  the  home,  and  in  the 
sincerity  of  his  heart  he  brought  con- 
viction to  those  who  listened.  And 
when  they  all  arose  from  their  knees, 
the  father,  who  seemingly  had  been  the 
leader,  who  had  been  the  source  of  the 
trouble,  approached  the  missionary; 
taking  him  by  the  hand,  he  said,  "We 
do  not  need  you  longer.  You  have 
touched  our  hearts,  and  we  will  com- 
pose our  differences,  and  you  can  de- 


pend upon  it  that  we  will  not  fail." 
And  Brother  Price  in  reporting  it  said, 
"Surely,  out  of  the  mouths  of  babes  and 
sucklings  hath  the  Lord  ordained 
strength." 

And  so  it  is  in  this  spirit  that  our  mis- 
sionaries go  forth,  and  they  have  great 
decisions  to  make,  and  they  are  equal 
to  them. 

The  missionaries  also  learn  the  in- 
junction that  was  given  by  Isaiah  the 
prophet,  that  they  should  seek  the  Lord 
while  he  may  be  found: 

.  .  .  call  ye  upon  him  while  he  is  near: 
Let  the  wicked  forsake  his  way,  and  the 
unrighteous  man  his  thoughts:  and  let  him 
return  unto  the  Lord,  and  he  will  have 
mercy  upon  him;  and  to  our  God,  for  he 
will  abundantly  pardon.  (Isaiah  55:6-7.) 

Our  missionaries  learn  to  love  their 
contacts,  the  people  whom  they  meet, 
although  they  do  not  always  see  alike 
in  matters  of  religion  and  do  not  always 
agree,  yet  they  recognize  that  the  world 
is  full  of  good  people.  Many  honest- 
hearted  and  upright  men  and  women 
have  not  accepted  and  do  not  accept 
Mormonism  because  they  cannot  com- 
prehend it.  As  the  Savior  said  to 
Nicodemus,  "They  cannot  see."  And 
yet  through  the  fine  work  that  they 
are  doing,  our  missionaries  are  gradual- 
ly breaking  down  prejudices.  They  are 
being  invited  into  homes  that  are  blessed 
because  of  the  faith  and  the  testimony 
that  they  bring  to  them.  There  is  no 
greater  joy  that  can  come  to  the  human 
heart  than  to  bring  this  message  of 
eternal  truth  to  those  who  do  not  have 
it.  And  so  our  missionary  service  be- 
comes a  great  spiritual  factor  in  the 
lives  of  those  who  have  this  unusual  ex- 
perience. There  is  nothing  equal  to  it 
anywhere.  Our  boys  come  home  filled 
with  a  testimony  of  the  truth,  acknowl- 
edging the  goodness  of  the  Lord  to  them 
and  conscious  of  the  fact  that  they  have 
been  able  to  do  some  good,  not  only  to 
themselves  but  also  to  those  with  whom 
they  have  come  in  contact. 

Thus  has  been  laid  a  foundation  of 
faith  and  spirituality  and  strength  of 
character  in  our  young  people  that  has 


22 

Friday,  October  2 

contributed  greatly  to  the  growth  and 
the  strength  of  this  Church.  It  is  no 
wonder  the  Bishop  of  York  was  led 
to  say  after  his  visit  to  Salt  Lake  City, 
on  his  return  to  England,  as  reported, 
I  think,  by  Brother  Sonne  on  his  return 
from  Europe,  "The  Mormon  Church 
must  be  a  wealthy  Church,  for  it  main- 
tains so  many  missionaries  in  the 
world."  At  that  time  I  think  there  were 
five  thousand  missionaries,  and  at  an 
average  cost  of  sixty  dollars  a  month 
for  each,  you  can  see  that  would  amount 
to  $300,000.00  a  month,  or  over 
$3,500,000.00  a  year,  and  so  the  Bishop 
of  York  was  calculating  it  in  dollars 
and  cents.  He  did  not  understand  that 
the  wealth  that  maintains  these  mission- 
aries is  not  gold  and  silver,  but  faith, 
sacrifice,  devotion  on  the  part  of  parents, 
in  most  cases,  parents  of  limited  means, 
not  of  wealth,  but  rich  in  faith  and  in 
a  confidence  in  this  great  work.  It  is 
not  gold  that  has  built  our  temples 
and  our  meetinghouses,  but  the  same 
faith  and  devotion  to  the  Lord  on  the 
part  of  those  who  also  support  the  great 
missionary  system  of  the  Church. 

In  conclusion,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, may  I  read  an  extract  from  a 
sermon  delivered  in  this  pulpit  many 
years  ago  by  President  George  Q.  Can- 
non. I  think  it  was  in  1871.  It  was 
subsequently  reported  in  the  Church 
Section  of  the  Deseret  News.  For  some 
of  you  who  are  younger,  President  Can- 
non served  as  counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency  from  the  time  of  President 
John  Taylor  on  to  the  time  of  Presi- 
dent Snow.  I  think  it  was  during 
President  Snow's  administration  that 
President  Cannon  passed  away.  He 
was  one  of  the  great  leaders  of  this 
Church — a  brilliant  mind.  He  knew 
the  Prophet  Joseph.  His  father  had 
come  from  the  Isle  of  Man  with  his 
family.  They  had  become  converted 
to  Mormonism,  and  had  settled  in 
Nauvoo,  and  were  there  at  the  time  of 
the  martyrdom.  I  think  I  may  safely 
say  that  President  Cannon's  tribute  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  in  his  biography  is 
one  of  the  finest  that  has  ever  been  writ- 
ten regarding  the  Prophet  Joseph.  It  was 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day. 

written  from  an  intimate  touch  that  the 
Cannon  family  had  with  the  Prophet, 
and  George  Q.  Cannon  as  a  lad  four- 
teen years  of  age  remembered  the  great 
leadership  and  the  spiritual  power  that 
characterized  the  Prophet  of  God,  to 
whom  the  Lord  had  revealed  his  great 
work.  And  so  I  quote  in  conclusion 
some  remarks  from  President  Cannon: 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  not  so  un- 
charitable as  to  imagine  that  they  are  the 
only  ones  with  whom  God  is  dealing,  or 
are  they  the  only  people  over  whom  and 
toward  whom  his  providences  are  being 
exercised.  Such  a  thought  has  never  entered 
into  the  hearts  of  those  who  are  intelli- 
gent and  reflecting  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  true- 
that  we  believe  and  testify  that  we  have 
been  called  to  proclaim  the  everlasting  gos- 
pel in  its  ancient  purity  and  simplicity,  with 
the  plenitude  of  its  gifts  and  graces,  as  en- 
joyed in  ancient  days,  that  we  have  been 
called  to  lay  the  foundation  of  that  work 
which  is  destined  to  grow  and  increase  and 
spread  until  it  fills  the  whole  earth  from 
north  to  south  and  from  east  to  west.  Yet 
we  do  not  on  this  account  arrogate  to  our- 
selves all  the  kindness,  all  the  mercy,  care 
and  goodness  which  God  dispenses  to  his 
creatures  here  on  the  earth,  but  we  firmly 
believe  in  every  nation  and  among  every 
kindred,  tongue,  and  people,  and  in  fact 
in  every  creed  on  the  face  of  the  earth, 
there  are  those  whom  God  watches  with 
particular  care,  and  to  whom  his  blessings 
are  extended,  and  we  believe  that  his  provi- 
dences are  over  all  the  works  of  his  hands, 
and  that  none  is  so  remote,  friendless,  or 
isolated  that  he  is  not  the  object  of  his 
care,  his  mercy  and  his  love.  This  is  our 
belief,  and  when  we  see  the  events  which 
are  taking  place  at  the  present  time  [and 
this  sounds  almost  prophetic],  when  we 
hear  of  revolutions  and  wars,  of  nation 
rising  against  nation,  of  the  various  judg- 
ments and  calamities,  as  well  as  the  various 
kindnesses  and  mercies,  that  are  bestowed 
upon  and  extended  to  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth,  and  to  the  various  nationalities 
into  which  they  are  divided,  we  see  in  all 
these  things  the  hand  of  our  kind  and 
beneficent  Creator.  We  see  his  providences.. 
We  behold  his  going  forth,  and  we  acknowl- 
edge his  goodness,  and  we  also  think  that 
we  can  discern  his  overruling  care  and 
providence  for  the  bringing  to  pass  the  great 
events  of  which  he  has  spoken,  which  will 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


23 


eventually  result  in  the  emancipation  of  our 
race  from  the  thralldom  of  evil,  under 
which  it  now  groans. 

It  is  in  this  spirit,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  our  missionaries  go  out  into 
the  world  to  proclaim  the  restored  gos- 
pel, and  I  have  nothing  but  commenda- 
tion for  these  fine  men  and  women  who 
are  sent  out,  and  for  the  splendid  men 
and  women  who  preside  over  them. 
These  mission  presidents  and  their 
wives,  outstanding  in  their  faith  and  in 
their  devotion  to  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
give  these  missionaries  proper  direction, 
and  inspire  them  in  the  great  work  to 
which  they  are  called.  I  am  grateful 
as  I  stand  here  today  for  the  privileges 
and  blessings  that  were  mine  over  forty 
years  ago  to  be  called  to  the  mission 


field  to  preach  the  gospel.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  foundation  of  faith  that  was 
established  in  my  soul  because  of  this 
unusual  experience,  and  I  humbly 
acknowledge  on  this  occasion  these 
blessings,  and  also  the  goodness  of  my 
parents  in  making  such  an  experience 
possible.  I  express  my  gratitude  to  my 
heavenly  Father,  and  I  bear  my  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  this  great  work, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  We  shall 
now  hear  from  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  who  will 
be  followed  by  Bishop  Isaacson. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  President  McKay's  address  this 
morning  he  told  of  a  picture  that 
hung  in  the  Huntsville  meeting- 
house, a  picture  of  President  John  Tay- 
lor, under  which  were  the  words, 
"Where  the  kingdom  of  God  is  not, 
there  is  nothing."  That  statement  en- 
courages me  to  talk  about  something 
about  which  I  have  been  thinking  for 
a  long  time.  If  the  Lord  is  willing  and 
I  might  have  his  Spirit,  I  would  like 
to  speak  about  a  subject  which  I  will 
introduce  by  quoting  a  question  asked 
by  a  missionary,  and  a  statement  from 
a  great  thinker.  The  missionary  asked, 
"Since  the  restored  Church  claims  that 
it  is  necessary  to  have  the  same  organi- 
zation that  existed  in  the  primitive 
church,  particularly  Twelve  Apostles, 
how  then  can  we  claim  that  the  king- 
dom of  God  and  the  gospel  were  upon 
the  earth  before  the  time  of  the  Savior 
when  they  had  no  Apostles?" 

The  statement  which  I  wish  to  read 
is  from  Napoleon  I,  while  he  was  in 
exile  in  1817.  It  reads  as  follows:  "I 
would  believe  in  a  religion  if  it  existed 
from  the  beginning  of  time,  but  when 


I  consider  Socrates,  Plato,  and  Moham- 
med, I  no  longer  believe." 

There  are  those  who  believe  that 
the  kingdom  of  God  was  not  estab- 
lished until  after  the  advent  of  the 
Savior  and  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  was  not  upon  the  earth  until 
the  time  of  his  advent. 

As  I  have  thought  of  that  question 
of  the  missionary  about  the  organization 
of  the  Church,  and  about  Napoleon's 
statement,  three  questions  have  formu- 
lated themselves  in  my  thinking:  The 
first,  How  old  is  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  the  gospel  upon  the  earth?  The 
second,  What  are  the  essentials  of  a 
gospel  dispensation  in  the  world?  And 
third,  What  officers  are  necessary  in 
an  organization  to  constitute  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God?  I  realize  that 
to  answer  those  questions  fully  would 
take  much  more  time  than  is  allotted 
to  me,  so  I  shall  comment  only  briefly 
and  make  a  few  observations  in  answer 
to  these  questions. 

In  the  Lord's  revelation  to  Abraham, 
he  spoke  of  the  purpose  in  sending 
spirits  upon  the  earth,  to  "  .  .  .  prove 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  2 

them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do 
all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their 
God  shall  command  them"  (Abr.  3:25), 
with  a  promise  that  if  they  would  keep 
their  second  estate  they  should  have 
glory  added  upon  their  heads  forever 
and  forever. 

In  the  first  chapter  of  the  writings  of 
John,  the  nature  of  that  glory  spoken 
of  in  the  revelation  to  Abraham  is  im- 
plied.  John  said, 

But  as  many  as  received  him,  to  them 
gave  he  power  to  become  the  sons  of 
God.  .  .  .  (John  1:12.) 

In  a  modern  revelation  that  same 
statement  is  repeated  with  slight  varia- 
tion and  then  clarified,  in  these  words: 

But  to  as  many  as  received  me,  gave  I 
power  to  become  my  sons;  .  .  . 

And  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  he  that 
receiveth  my  gospel  receiveth  me;  and  he 
that  receiveth  not  my  gospel  receiveth  not 
me. 

And  then  the  Lord  proceeds  to  define 
the  fundamental  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel in  these  words: 

And  this  is  my  gospel — repentance  and 
baptism  by  water,  and  then  cometh  the 
baptism  of  fire  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  even 
the  Comforter,  which  showeth  all  things, 
and  teacheth  the  peaceable  things  of  the 
kingdom.  (D.  &  C.  39:4-6.) 

The  gospel  plan,  as  these  scriptures 
would  indicate,  was  laid  in  the  heavens 
before  the  earth  was  organized  and 
spirits  were  placed  upon  it. 

That  this  gospel  and  the  essentials 
of  salvation  have  been  upon  the  earth  in 
every  dispensation  from  the  time  of 
Adam,  there  can  be  no  doubt.  In  an 
early  revelation  to  Moses,  which  we 
have  contained  in  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  the  Lord,  speaking  to  Adam, 
said  this: 

If  thou  wilt  turn  unto  me,  and  hearken 
unto  my  voice,  and  believe,  and  repent  of 
all  thy  transgressions,  and  be  baptized,  even 
in  water,  in  the  name  of  mine  Only  Be- 
gotten Son,  who  is  full  of  grace  and  truth, 
which  is  Jesus  Christ,  the  only  name  which 
shall  be  given  under  heaven,  whereby  sal- 


First  Day 

vation  shall  come  unto  the  children  of 
men,  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  asking  all  things  in  his  name,  and 
whatsoever  ye  shall  ask,  it  shall  be  given 
you. 

Then  there  follows  an  account  of  the 
baptism  of  Adam,  and  this  declaration 
by  a  voice  speaking  out  of  heaven  to 
Adam: 

Behold,  thou  art  one  in  me,  a  son  of 
God;  and  thus  may  all  become  my  sons. 
(Moses  6:52,  68.) 

In  writing  to  the  Galatians,  the  Apos- 
tle Paul  said, 

And  the  scripture,  foreseeing  that  God 
would  justify  the  heathen  through  faith, 
preached  before  the  gospel  unto  Abraham, 
saying,  In  thee  shall  all  nations  be  blessed. 
(Gal.  3:8.) 

He  was  speaking  of  the  ordinance  of 
baptism  in  Moses'  day  when  he  wrote 
these  words  to  the  Corinthians: 

.  .  .  how  that  all  our  fathers  were  under 
the  cloud,  and  all  passed  through  the  sea; 

And  were  all  baptized  unto  Moses.  .  .  . 
(I  Cor.  10:1-2.) 

And  then  of  the  children  of  Israel 
under  the  leadership  of  Moses,  Paul 
again  wrote  to  the  Hebrews,  and  said, 

For  unto  us  was  the  gospel  preached, 
as  well  as  unto  them:  but  the  word  preached 
did  not  profit  them,  not  being  mixed  with 
faith  in  them  that  heard  it.  (Hebrews  4:2.) 

All  of  these  statements  thus  recorded 
in  the  Bible  have  been  confirmed  by 
modern  revelation. 

Just  as  in  the  dispensations  of  Adam, 
Abraham,  and  Moses  were  those  funda- 
mental teachings  given  and  those 
fundamental  ordinances  of  the  gospel 
administered,  so  we  hear  the  Savior 
speaking  to  Nicodemus, 

Except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of 
the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom 
of  God.  (John  3:5.) 

To  suppose  that  God  would  initiate 
ordinances  on  which  salvation  would  be 
conditioned,  and  then  allow  four  thou- 
sand years  to  pass  without  any  authority 


ELDER  HA1 

or  any  organization  to  administer  those 
ordinances,  is  untenable  to  the  thinking 
man.  A  thinking  man  would  have  to 
conclude  with  Napoleon,  "Unless  a  reli- 
gion existed  from  the  beginning,  I  cannot 
believe." 

Now  for  just  a  moment,  let's  take  a 
hasty  look  at  the  Church  organizations 
that  have  existed  in  each  of  these  dis- 
pensations from  the  beginning.  To  Adam 
there  was  given  "...  dominion  .  .  .  over 
every  living  thing  that  moveth  upon 
the  earth."  (Genesis  1:28.)  The  gov- 
ernment in  his  time  was  patriarchal, 
and  the  priesthood  ruled.  Men  holding 
the  priesthood  ruled  by  direct  revela- 
tion and  commandment.  In  Enoch's 
time  likewise,  his  government  was 
patriarchal.  Zion,  the  City  of  Holiness, 
was  established,  and  Enoch  gave  a  per- 
fect economic  law,  known  to  us  as  the 
Order  of  Enoch.  There  was  likewise  a 
similar  government  from  Noah  to 
Abraham,  as  we  are  informed  by  modern 
revelation  in  these  words, 

The  order  of  this  priesthood  was  con- 
firmed to  be  handed  down  from  father  to 
son,  and  rightly  belongs  to  the  literal 
descendants  of  the  chosen  seed,  to  whom  the 
promises  were  made.  (D.  &  C.  107:40.) 

From  Moses  to  the  Prophet  Samuel, 
Israel  was  governed  by  judges,  who  were 
chosen  from  among  the  people.  And 
then  you  will  recall,  because  they  were 
"peculiar"  in  that  type  of  government, 
they  sought  for  a  king,  to  be  like  other 
peoples;  a  king  to  rule  over  them  in 
secular  matters,  while  a  prophet  would 
continue  to  guide  in  spiritual  affairs. 
You  will  recall  that  Saul  was  then 
chosen,  followed  by  David,  and  by 
Solomon,  and  then  the  division  of  the 
children  of  Israel  into  the  kingdom  of 
Judah  and  the  kingdom  of  Israel  under 
Rehoboam  and  Jeroboam. 

With  the  advent  of  Jesus,  the  Jews 
were  in  a  state  of  apostasy,  and  you 
will  recall  he  chose  twelve  men  to  be 
his  special  witnesses,  and  to  one  of  these 
twelve,  Peter,  he  gave  the  keys  to  the 
kingdom  of  God.  The  significance  of 
that  commission  of  the  keys  of  the  king- 
dom to  Peter  is  better  understood  in 


)LD  B.  LEE  25 

the  words  of  a  revelation  given  to  us 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  when 
the  Lord  said  this,  speaking  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph, 

Unto  whom  I  have  given  the  keys  of 
the  kingdom,  which  belong  always  unto  the 
Presidency  of  the  High  Priesthood.  (Ibid., 
81:2.) 

In  other  words,  Peter,  holding  the 
keys  of  the  kingdom,  was  as  much  the 
president  of  the  High  Priesthood  in 
his  day  as  Joseph  Smith  and  his  suc- 
cessors, to  whom  also  these  "keys"  were 
given  in  our  day,  are  the  presidents  of 
the  High  Priesthood,  and  the  earthly 
heads  of  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God  on  the  earth. 

The  Apostle  Paul  describing  the 
Church  organization  in  his  day  said, 

And  God  hath  set  some  in  the  church, 
first  apostles,  secondarily  prophets,  .  .  .  after 
that  .  .  .  helps,  governments,  .  .  .  etc.  (I  Cor. 
12:28.) 

But  in  all  of  these  Church  offices  we 
are  told  again  in  the  revelations 

.  .  .  there  is  never  but  one  on  the  earth 
at  a  time  on  whom  this  power  and  the 
keys  of  this  priesthood  are  conferred.  .  .  . 
(D.  &  C.  132:7.) 

We  are  living  today  in  the  Dispensa- 
tion of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  and  we 
were  given  a  statement,  inspired  by  the 
Lord,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in 
these  words,  which  make  some  explana- 
tion of  what  the  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times  contemplated.  He 
said, 

.  .  .  for  it  is  necessary  in  the  ushering  in 
of  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times, 
which  dispensation  is  now  beginning  to 
usher  in,  that  a  whole  and  complete  and 
perfect  union,  and  welding  together  of 
dispensations,  and  keys,  and  powers,  and 
glories  should  ...  be  revealed  from  the 
days  of  Adam,  even  to  the  present  time. 
And  not  only  this,  but  those  things  which 
never  have  been  revealed  from  the  founda- 
tion of  the  world  .  .  .  shall  be  revealed  .  .  . 
in  this,  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times.  (D.  &  C.  128:18.) 

The  Apostle  Peter  spoke  of  that,  in 


26  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  2 

referring  to  this  same  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times,  when  he  said 
there  would  be  a 

.  .  .  restitution  of  all  things,  which  God 
hath  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his  holy 
prophets  since  the  world  began.  (Acts 
3:21.) 

It  seems  clear  then  that  were  the 
Church  organization  today  to  be  devoid 
of  that  which  Jesus  gave,  therefore,  in 
the  way  of  organization,  this  dispensa- 
tion would  fail  by  that  same  token, 
to  be  an  established  kingdom  of  God 
upon  the  earth  in  the  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times  in  which  was  to 
be  restored  "all  things."  Undoubtedly 
the  organization  the  Master  gave  was 
to  be  the  pattern  of  organization  more 
perfected  than  in  the  past  dispensa- 
tions. There  is  evidence  of  this  in  the 
fact  that  after  he  had  left  the  people 
here  following  his  resurrection,  he  went 
to  the  Nephites,  and  there  again  he 
chose  twelve  disciples,  whom  he  set  up 
to  govern  his  Church  and  that  part  of 
the  kingdom  here  on  this  continent 
among  the  Nephites. 

We  might  then  ask,  what  is  the 
kingdom  of  God?  And  again  we  are 
not  left  without  an  answer,  for  the  Lord 
replied,  "The  keys  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  are  committed  unto  man  on  the 
earth.  ..."  Where  there  are  the  keys 
to  the  kingdom,  There  is  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  it  is  the  stone  which 
was  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without 
hands,  as  told  in  Daniel's  interpretation 
of  the  dream,  which  was  to  roll  forth 
and  smite  the  image  and  break  it  in 
pieces  and  to  roll  on  until  it  should 
fill  the  whole  earth.  (D.  &  C.  65.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  makes  this 
definition  of  the  kingdom  of  God: 

Some  say  that  the  kingdom  of  God  was 
not  set  up  upon  the  earth  until  the  day  of 
Pentecost,  and  that  John  did  not  preach 
the  baptism  of  repentance  for  the  remission 
of  sins,  but  I  say  to  you  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  that  the  kingdom  of  God  was  set  up 
upon  the  earth  in  the  days  of  Adam  to  the 
present  time.    Whenever  there  has  been 


First  Day 

a  righteous  man  on  the  earth,  unto  whom 
God  revealed  His  word  and  gave  power  and 
authority  to  administer  in  His  name,  and 
where  there  is  a  priest  of  God  ...  to  ad- 
minister in  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  and 
officiate  in  the  priesthood  of  God,  there  is 
the  kingdom  of  God.  .  .  .  Where  there  is 
a  prophet,  a  priest,  or  a  righteous  man 
unto  whom  God  gives  His  oracles,  there 
is  the  kingdom  of  God;  and  where  the 
oracles  of  God  are  not,  there  the  kingdom 
of  God  is  not.  (Teachings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  pp.  271-272.) 

This  is  but  another  way  of  saying 
what  the  picture  in  Huntsville  declared 
as  related  by  President  McKay,  "Where 
the  kingdom  of  God  is  not  there  is 
nothing." 

Just  as  the  Master  said  in  his  day, 
the  kingdom  of  God  cpmeth  not  by 
observation,  meaning  that  there  would 
be  no  outward  signs  or  no  political 
changes,  so  today,  it  is  now  among  us, 
as  it  has  been  in  every  dispensation 
of  the  gospel  since  the  days  of  Adam. 

Another  statement  was  made  by  the 
prophets  of  the  New  Testament  which 
to  me  has  some  significance.  They  are 
quoted  as  having  said  that  "...  the 
kingdom  of  God  is  within  you."  (Luke 
17:21.)  A  more  correct  translation 
probably  would  have  said,  "The  king- 
dom of  God  is  among  you  or  in  your 
midst,"  but  as  I  thought  of  that  other 
statement,  "The  kingdom  of  God  is 
within  you,"  I  recalled  an  experience 
that  we  had  with  a  group  of  students 
from  Brigham  Young  University,  who 
were  gracious  enough  to  come  under 
the  leadership  of  President  Wilkinson 
to  a  little  group  over  in  the  Lion  House, 
and  there  sixteen,  representing  sixteen 
foreign  countries,  were  asked  to  stand 
and  tell  how  they  came  to  know  about 
the  gospel  and  accept  it,  why  they  were 
at  Brigham  Young  University,  and  to 
bear  their  testimonies.  It  was  a  most 
intensely  interesting  evening.  We  heard 
from  young  men  and  women  from 
Mexico,  Argentina,  Brazil,  the  Scandi- 
navian countries,  France,  and  England. 
The  story  was  the  same.  When  they 
began  to  relate  how  they  came  to  find 
the  gospel,  it  was  this:  They  were  yearn- 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


27 


Ing  for  truth.  They  were  seeking  for 
light.  They  were  not  satisfied,  and  in 
the  midst  of  their  search,  someone  came 
to  them  with  the  truths  of  the  gospel. 
They  prayed  about  it  and  sought  the 
Lord  intensely,  intently,  with  all  their 
hearts,  and  came  to  receive  a  divine 
testimony  by  which  they  knew  that  this 
is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  One 
young  woman  said,  "I  had  been  studying 
the  gospel,  and  this  night  I  came  to  a 
meeting  and  I  heard  them  sing,  "Joseph 
Smith's  First  Prayer,"  which  gave  in 
song  the  story  of  the  first  vision,  and  be- 
fore they  had  finished  that  song,  into 
my  heart  the  Spirit  bore  testimony  that 
this  is  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God."  So  within  the  heart  of  everyone, 
every  honest  seeker  after  truth,  if  he  has 
the  desire  to  know,  and  studies  with 
real  intent  and  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  the  kingdom  of  God  may  be 


within  him,  or  in  other  words,  the  power 
to  receive  it  is  his. 

I  bear  you  my  humble  witness  that 
this  is  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God 
in  the  earth.  This  is  the  Dispensation 
of  the  Fulness  of  Times.  Except  for  the 
fact  that  it  is  but  a  continuation  of  the 
same  gospel,  the  same  fundamental 
principles,  the  same  authority  which 
has  existed  from  the  beginning  of  time, 
we  would  have  to  say  with  Napoleon  I, 

Except  you  can  prove  to  me  that  this 
religion  has  been  from  the  beginning,  I 
will  not  believe. 

God  help  us  to  take  this  message  out 
to  the  world  and  convince  them  of  the 
power  of  the  gospel  and  the  power 
which  is  within  them  to  receive  the 
kingdom  of  God  while  it  is  yet  day,  I 
pray  humbly  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
and  President  Clark,  my  beloved 
brethren  and  sisters:  I  feel  very  hum- 
ble this  afternoon  in  standing  before 
you  and  in  occupying  this  position.  I 
sincerely  pray  that  you  will  have  a 
silent  prayer  in  your  heart  for  me,  and 
I  humbly  pray  that  the  Lord  will  sus- 
tain me.  There  is  a  very  beautiful, 
sweet  spirit  here;  there  was  this  morn- 
ing. We  recognize  that  spirit  as  the 
sweet  Spirit  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

As  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  we  have 
a  great  responsibility;  we  have  an  indi- 
vidual responsibility.  Membership  in 
the  Church  is  not  for  the  idler,  nor 
for  one  who  would  seek  an  easy  way 
to  salvation.  However,  it  should  not 
be  too  difficult  for  us  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  if  we  have  a 
desire  in  our  hearts  to  do  so  and  if  we 
are  willing  to  make  the  effort.  True, 
we  must  form  good  habits  of  righteous 
living,  and  good  habits  are  just  as  easy 
and  in  fact  easier  to  form  than  are  bad 


habits.  It  should  not  be  too  difficult 
for  us  to  be  truthful  and  honest  and 
prayerful  and  to  meet  our  obligations 
honestly. 

Yes,  we  have  the  right  to  choose 
which  way  we  want  to  go.  Thereby 
we  develop  our  own  strength  of  char- 
acter. However,  if  we  do  only  the 
things  required  of  us,  we  may  not  gain 
full  development.  To  do  right  only 
because  we  are  forced  to  do  so,  rather 
than  because  we  have  a  desire  to  do  so, 
does  not  contribute  to  proper  develop- 
ment of  character;  for  the  Lord,  speak- 
ing to  us  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, Section  58,  Verses  26  to  29,  says: 

For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I  should 
command  in  all  things;  for  he  that  is  com- 
pelled in  all  things,  the  same  is  a  slothful 
and  not  a  wise  servant;  wherefore  he  re- 
ceiveth  no  reward. 

Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously 
engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do  many 
things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring 
to  pass  much  righteousness; 

For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein  they 
are  agents  unto  themselves.   And  inasmuch 


28  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  2 

as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose 
their  reward. 

But  he  that  doeth  not  anything  until 
he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth  a  com- 
mandment with  doubtful  heart,  and  keepeth 
it  with  slothfulness,  the  same  is  damned. 

Probably  our  first  and  greatest  re- 
sponsibility is  to  see  that  we  ourselves 
live  righteously  and  well.  When  a  man 
fails  in  life,  the  cause  is  sometimes 
within  himself.  We  are  often  de- 
stroyed from  within  as  well  as  from 
forces  without.  Wrongdoing  destroys 
our  morale  and  makes  us  an  easy 
victim  to  outward  forces  that  would 
also  weaken  us  spiritually;  and  spir- 
ituality is  as  essential  to  a  man's  soul 
as  vitamins  are  to  his  body. 

Unless  we  can  banish  indifference, 
conquer  indolence,  renounce  injustice, 
overcome  intemperance,  expel  intoler- 
ance, and  abolish  ingratitude  from  our 
souls,  we  may  not  be  good  representa- 
tive members  of  the  Church,  for  has 
not  the  Psalmist  said:  "Except  the  Lord 
build  the  house,  they  labour  in  vain 
that  build  it."  (Psalm  127:1.) 

Let  us  for  a  moment  consider  indif- 
ference. Indifference  can  bring  great 
tragedy  into  our  souls,  whether  it  be 
indifference  to  the  laws  of  the  land  or 
indifference  to  the  laws  of  God  or  in- 
difference to  the  rights  and  privileges 
of  each  other.  When  we  break  the 
laws  of  the  land,  there  is  a  penalty. 
When  we  break  the  laws  of  God,  there 
is  likewise  a  penalty;  and  when  we 
show  indifference  to  each  other,  some- 
body suffers. 

Consider  desecration  of  the  Sabbath 
day.  Surely  our  Father  in  heaven  must 
have  felt  that  this  was  important  when 
he  gave  us  the  commandment  concern- 
ing the  Sabbath  day,  for  he  said  to  us 
beginning  in  Exodus  20:8,  and  if  we 
could  only  think  of  this  when  we  break 
the  Sabbath  day,  I  think  we  would  be 
more  careful  about  it: 

Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep  it 
holy. 

Six  days  shalt  thou  labour,  and  do  all 
thy  work: 

But  the  seventh  day  is  the  sabbath  of  the 
Lord  thy  God:  in  it  thou  shalt  not  do  any 


First  Day 

work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy  daughter, 
thy  manservant,  nor  thy  maidservant,  nor 
thy  cattle,  nor  thy  stranger  that  is  within 
thy  gates: 

For  in  six  days  the  Lord  made  heaven 
and  earth,  the  sea,  and  all  that  in  them  is, 
and  rested  the  seventh  day:  wherefore  the 
Lord  blessed  the  sabbath  day,  and  hallowed 
it.  (Ex.  20:8-11.) 

To  so  many  people,  Sunday  is  now 
spoken  of  as  a  holiday,  not  a  "holy 
day."  Let  us  consider  this  before  we 
break  the  Sabbath  day. 

Now  there  are  many  ways  of  being 
truthful.  We  may  not  exactly  tell  a 
lie,  but  if  we  fail  to  raise  our  voices 
to  set  a  situation  right  when  we  could, 
aren't  we  as  guilty  as  the  one  who  fails 
to  tell  all  the  truth?  Indifference  is 
one  way  to  start  one  on  the  road  to 
sorrow. 

Indolence  is  another  destroying  char- 
acteristic. One  of  the  greatest  factors 
in  building  character  is  work  and  our 
attitude  toward  that  work.  I  remember 
hearing  President  Clark  one  day  say  to 
some  of  us,  "I  am  grateful  for  the  bless- 
ings of  work."  Personally  I  consider  it 
a  challenge.  I  consider  it  a  cure  for 
heartache  and  discouragement.  If  we 
can  accomplish  something  worth  while 
as  we  go  about  our  day's  work,  we  can 
retire  at  night  feeling  that  our  day  has 
been  well  spent. 

When  Brigham  Young  led  the  Saints 
into  this,  the  Salt  Lake  Valley,  he  knew 
that  there  were  some  among  them  who 
would  not  assume  their  rightful  re- 
sponsibility, and  he  knew  that  it  would 
take  the  combined  efforts  of  all  if  they 
were  to  survive  and  be  at  all  success- 
ful. He  impressed  upon  them  the  need 
to  work  in  order  to  eat.  The  Lord  has 
told  us  in  Genesis  3:19:  "In  the  sweat  of 
thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread,  ..."  I 
believe  it  is  our  individual  responsibility 
to  work  hard,  and  I  am  including  work 
and  service  in  the  Church. 

Injustice  is  another  great  evil.  Per- 
haps as  Latter-day  Saints  we  must  be 
concerned  with  the  justice  and  welfare 
of  all  people,  because  the  membership 
of  this  Church  is  made  up  of  people 
from  all  nations,  your  grandparents  and 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


29 


mine  from  foreign  countries,  united  in 
a  common  cause,  that  of  bringing  salva- 
tion to  the  souls  of  men. 

In  our  different  walks  of  life  we  must 
be  careful  not  to  put  our  own  personal 
interests  above  the  welfare  of  the  group. 
This  would  be  unjust.  In  public  life  we 
have  seen  people  who  consider  the  effect 
of  every  act,  first  how  will  it  affect  my- 
self, and  how  will  it  affect  the  other  peo- 
ple later? 

Selfishness  is  one  of  the  greatest  causes 
of  injustice.  Few  there  are  of  us  who 
can  see  fault  in  ourselves — meanness 
of  spirit,  pettiness  of  disposition.  Few 
of  us  will  admit  to  befriending  a  man 
because  he  is  right,  rather  than  because 
of  his  importance.  How  often  have 
we  heard  parents  tell  their  children,  "I 
wish  you  wouldn't  associate  with  our 
neighbor's  children  because  they  are  not 
of  our  own  social  status."  These  are 
gross  injustices,  but  they  are  prevalent 
among  us  today.  We  must  renounce 
injustice  if  we  would  grow  spiritually. 

We  should  try  to  overcome  intemper- 
ance because  it  is  self-defeating,  devas- 
tating to  character,  and  paralyzing  to 
one's  own  progress.  We  have  seen  men 
in  prominent  places  of  our  communities 
bring  sorrow  and  disgrace  upon  them- 
selves and  their  families  because  they 
failed  to  curb  an  appetite. 

A  few  months  ago  it  was  my  privilege 
to  ride  across  the  country  on  a  train, 
and  there  I  met  a  high-ranking  army 
officer,  and  we  visited  for  many  hours. 
Among  other  things  he  told  me  that  the 
increase  in  nervous  disorders  in  the 
army,  brought  about  largely  by  alcohol 
and  other  things,  was  very  disturbing 
and  alarming.  He  indicated  that  it 
was  the  most  self-defeating  factor  that 
the  army  had  to  contend  with,  and 
then  he  told  me  that  one-third  of  the 
beds  of  the  hospitals  of  this  country 
were  occupied  by  patients  with  nervous 
disorders,  largely  brought  about  by  the 
use  of  alcohol  and  other  drugs,  and  that 
it  would  be  very  alarming  to  the  coun- 
try if  we  knew  the  true  status. 

Intolerance  is  another  self-destroying 
evil.    If  it  isn't  banished  out  of  our 


character,  it  may  reflect  on  the  Church 
as  well  as  on  ourselves,  because  brother- 
hood like  charity  begins  at  home.  If 
we  would  be  tolerant,  we  must  obey 
the  first  and  great  commandment;  we 
must  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all 
our  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength, 
and  then  we  must  love  our  neighbor 
as  ourselves. 

Brotherhood  and  the  love  of  man- 
kind must  be  resident  in  our  hearts, 
on  our  streets,  in  our  towns.  Otherwise 
we  may  not  have  it  in  our  own  hearts. 
We  largely  judge  others  by  ourselves. 
If  we  are  intolerant  of  others,  we  can 
expect  the  same  treatment  ourselves. 
The  inner  strength  of  the  Church  re- 
veals itself  to  a  great  extent  in  our  way 
of  treating  others. 

Now  probably  the  greatest  sin  of  all 
is  the  sin  of  ingratitude,  but  we,  favored 
of  all  our  Father's  children,  should  fill 
our  hearts  with  gratitude  for  the  magni- 
tude of  the  power  of  the  gospel  and  the 
blessings  that  he  has  brought  to  us. 
The  resources  by  which  we  advance  are 
the  real  qualities  of  character  that  we 
possess.  We  must  show  gratitude  for 
our  blessings.  We  can  be  judged  more 
by  what  we  love  than  by  what  we  own. 

Our  greatest  blessings  as  a  people  are 
spiritual,  not  material.  The  older  I 
become,  the  more  I  am  convinced  that 
there  are  not  many  things  of  very 
much  importance  which  do  not  belong 
to  the  spiritual.  There  are  the  things 
that  are  important,  and  then  there  are 
the  other  things. 

Nothing  can  contribute  so  much  to 
our  own  growth  as  being  home-loving, 
God-fearing,  freedom-earning,  temperate 
men  and  women. 

May  we  as  individuals  consider  our 
own  responsibility  in  the  Church  and 
try  to  become  better  Latter-day  Saints. 
Each  of  us  could  perhaps  make  one  or 
two  adjustments  in  our  own  lives  that 
would  make  us  better  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  feel  good  in  this  work  because  it 
is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  love  the  peo- 
ple; you  have  been  wonderful  to  me 
as  I  go  to  you  from  stake  to  stake.  And 
I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  of 


30 

Friday,  October  2 

partaking  of  your  spirit  and  of  hearing 
your  testimonies.  Your  kindnesses  and 
courtesies  to  all  the  brethren  are  ap- 
preciated. We  feel  a  closeness  and 
warmth  through  our  association  with 
you. 

Personally  I  am  unable  to  express 
my  gratitude  for  my  association  with 
these  fine  men.  I  have  great  love  and 
respect  and  admiration  for  each  one 
of  them.  I  am  particularly  grateful 
for  my  close  association  with  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  and  Bishop  Carl 
Buehner.  I  love  these  men.  Yes,  we 
talk  together,  and  we  pray  together. 
When  one  has  sorrow,  we  all  have 
sorrow.  I  am  grateful  for  my  associa- 
tion with  all  of  my  brethren  of  the 
General  Authorities.  As  I  get  to  know 
them,  I  would  class  it  as  the  greatest 
experience  in  my  life  to  be  with  them 
and  partake  of  their  spirit  and  their  ad- 
vice and  counsel,  because  they  are 
prophets  of  God.  Do  you  regard  these 
brethren  as  you  would  the  Apostles  of 
old?  In  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Sec- 
tion 68,  Verse  4,  may  we  remember  this: 

And  whatsoever  they  [our  leaders]  shall 
speak  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
shall  be  scripture,  shall  be  the  will  of  the 
Lord,  shall  be  the  mind  of  the  Lord,  shall 
be  the  word  of  the  Lord,  shall  be  the  voice 
of  the  Lord,  and  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation. 

Now  I  think  as  a  people  we  should 
keep  that  in  mind  when  these  brethren 
give  us  advice  and  counsel.  Talk  about 
love  that  abideth  in  the  heart  of  men,  I 
know  of  no  people  in  the  world  that 
has  the  example  to  follow  as  does  this 
people  in  the  President  of  the  Church. 
Talk  about  love  and  beauty.  I  am  sure 
we  could  do  well  to  try  and  emulate 
that  spirit  and  that  love,  and  that  is 
the  same  love  that  the  Savior  exempli- 
fied when  he  was  here  upon  the  earth. 

This  is  a  sweet  work.  It  couldn't  be 
anything  else  because  it  is  the  work  of 
our  Father  in  heaven  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  I  have  had  some  experi- 
ences in  school  work  as  a  teacher  for 
seventeen  years,  as  superintendent  of 
schools,  as  an  athletic  coach,  and  I  had 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Daw 

some  satisfaction  in  it,  and  I  am  grate- 
ful for  those  experiences,  but  they  are 
not  like  this  work.  There  isn't  anything, 
like  it  in  the  world,  and  I  would  plead 
with  every  man  and  woman  and  boy 
and  girl  in  the  Church  to  have  some 
activity,  to  be  rendering  some  service 
in  the  Church.  While  I  have  been 
associated  with  this  work,  I  am  sure 
that  I  have  been  the  greatest  benefactor- 
It  has  been  sweet  and  uplifting  to  me.. 
From  the  bottom  of  my  heart  I  want 
to  thank  the  Lord  for  his  kindnesses 
to  me.  I  know  what  it  is  to  be  humble,. 
I  believe,  and  I  know  when  I  go  to  the 
Lord  in  the  proper  spirit  that  my  prayers 
are  answered.  I  know  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  understandable.  I  know  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  to  us 
ever  prevalent  if  we  ourselves  keep  in. 
tune  with  his  Spirit.  May  the  Lord 
bless  us  and  give  us  the  power  to  help 
each  other  be  happy.  May  he  give  us 
true  comfort  and  genuine  friendship,, 
and  may  he  bless  us  that  we  may  fulfil 
the  measure  of  our  creation  here  upon 
the  earth  that  when  our  time  comes  to 
leave  mortality  we  may  leave  without 
feeling  sorry  for  the  way  that  we  have 
treated  each  other.  Let  us  give  each 
other  those  flowers  and  those  praises  and 
those  kind  words  now,  here,  while  we 
are  alive  to  enjoy  them. 

I  would  plead  with  my  friends  and 
associates  who  are  members  of  the 
Church  to  affiliate  yourselves  with  all 
the  activities  of  the  Church.  Then  you 
will  know  what  great  blessings  are  and 
you  will  know  what  happiness  is,  and 
the  Lord  will  bless  you,  and  I  would 
plead  with  and  encourage  my  friends 
who  are  not  members  of  the  Church 
that  they  will  consider  seriously  bap- 
tism into  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  be 
true  Latter-day  Saints,  that  we  may  be 
humble  and  prayerful,  that  we  may 
render  that  sweet  service  which  the 
Lord  expects  of  us,  and  receive  the 
blessings  that  he  has  in  store  for  us,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


31 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
The  Choir  and  Congregation  will  now 
join  in  singing,  "Praise  to  the  Man 
Who  Communed  with  Jehovah."  Elder 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  conduct,  with 
Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 


Following  the  singing,  Elder  Eldred 
G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  will 
speak. 


The  Singing  Mothers  and  the  con- 
gregation joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Praise  To  The  Man  Who  Communed 
With  Jehovah." 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


1 sincerely  seek  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers  in  my  behalf.  I 
feel  that  I  could  say  amen  to  all  that 
has  been  said  thus  far  in  this  conference. 
I  am  sure  that  I  can  say  amen  to  all 
that  shall  be  said. 

There  has  been  a  question  come  to  me 
which  is  the  thought  that  I  would  like 
to  express  here  today.  A  question  was 
put  to  me  recently,  which  I  have  heard 
many  times,  and  I  am  sure  many  of 
you  have  heard  the  same  question.  A 
young  lady  asked,  "What  difference  does 
it  make  whether  I  go  to  the  temple  to 
be  married  now,  or  whether  I  wait  a 
few  years  after  we  are  married,  and 
then  go  to  the  temple?  Are  not  the 
blessings  just  the  same?"  These  ques- 
tions come  always  from  those  who  are 
members  of  the  Church  and  who 
should  know  and  understand  the  bless- 
ings and  purpose  of  temple  marriage. 
When  I  asked,  "Why  not  go  to  the 
temple  at  first?"  I  got  the  usual  stock 
answer,  "Oh,  I  intend  to  go  to  the  tem- 
ple but  not  now,  later.  I  am  young 
and  I  have  plenty  of  time."  I  recall 
a  friend  of  mine  who  had  somewhat 
the  same  attitude.  They  wanted  to 
wait  a  few  years,  and  they  have  waited. 
They  have  waited  twenty-four  years 
now.  They  have  two  grown  children, 
a  son  and  a  daughter.  None  of  the 
family  are  active  in  the  Church  any 
more.  Their  interests  lie  in  a  more 
worldly  direction. 

Another  man  told  me  of  his  experi- 
ence. He  was  married  in  California. 
They  intended  to  go  to  the  temple. 


They  made  several  trips  to  Salt  Lake 
City.  Never  was  it  quite  convenient 
enough  to  go  to  the  temple,  even 
though  they  did  make  many  trips  to 
Salt  Lake  City.  Eventually  his  wife 
lost  interest  in  the  Church  and  in 
Church  activity.  He  lost  interest  in  at- 
tending his  meetings;  then  soon  his 
wife  lost  interest  in  him  and  eventually 
left  him,  and  as  a  result  he  lost  his 
wife  and  children.  He  has  since  re- 
turned to  Church  activity,  and  he  testi- 
fied to  me  that  if  he  had  made  the  effort 
to  go  to  the  temple,  he  knew  he  would 
not  have  lost  his  wife  and  children.  I 
am  sure  there  are  many  other  such  ex- 
periences which  could  be  related  and 
of  which  you  know.  Those  who  so 
procrastinate  surely  do  not  fully  under- 
stand what  celestial  marriage  means  to 
them.  They  must  act  on  faith.  A  full 
knowledge  of  such  things  comes  only 
from  faithful  obedience.  To  those  who 
marry  in  the  temple,  the  Lord  has  made 
this  promise: 

...  Ye  shall  come  forth  in  the  first  resur- 
rection; and  if  it  be  after  the  first  resur- 
rection, in  the  next  resurrection;  and  shall 
inherit  the  thrones,  kingdoms,  principali- 
ties, and  powers,  dominions,  all  heights 
and  depths —  .  .  .  ,  it  shall  be  done  unto 
them  in  all  things  whatsoever  my  servant 
hath  put  upon  them,  in  time,  and  through 
all  eternity;  and  shall  be  of  full  force  when 
they  are  out  of  the  world;  and  they  shall 
pass  by  the  angels,  and  the  gods,  which  are 
set  there,  to  their  exaltation  and  glory  in 
all  things,  as  hath  been  sealed  upon  theii 
heads,  which  glory  shall  be  a  fulness  and 


32  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  2 

a  continuation  of  the  seeds  forever  and 
ever. 

Then  shall  they  be  gods,  because  they 
have  no  end;  therefore  shall  they  be  from 
everlasting  to  everlasting,  because  they  con- 
tinue; then  shall  they  be  above  all,  be- 
cause all  things  are  subject  unto  them. 
Then  shall  they  be  gods,  because  they  have 
all  power,  and  the  angels  are  subject  unto 
them. 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  except  ye 
abide  my  law  ye  cannot  attain  to  this 
glory.  (D.  &  C.  132:19-21.) 

How  can  a  person  understand  that 
promise  and  take  such  a  chance?  So  to 
procrastinate  is  the  greatest  gamble  on 
earth.  You  gamble  with  death.  Each 
day  spent  is  a  day  closer  to  death  and 
the  day  of  judgment.  A  man  is  judged 
by  the  knowledge  given  him.  Where 
much  is  given,  much  is  expected.  To 
those  who  have  been  given  the  knowl- 
edge and  the  opportunity  of  temple 
marriage  and  then  procrastinate,  they 
are  gambling  the  eternal  blessings  of 
godhood  for  a  few  earthly  pleasures. 
There  just  isn't  any  sympathy  for  a 
man  who  knows  he  has  had  his  chance 
and  has  deliberately  forfeited  it.  The 
Lord  referred  to  such  people  in  his 
parable  of  the  ten  virgins;  the  five  who 
were  wise  and  kept  oil  in  their  lamps, 
and  the  five  foolish  who  procrastinated 
until  it  was  too  late,  and  they  were 
therefore  shut  out  of  the  kingdom.  The 
author  of  the  following  poem  is  anony- 
mous, but  surely  it  was  written  about 
many  of  us: 

I'll  go  where  you  want  me  to  go,  dear 
Lord; 

Real  service  is  what  I  desire. 

I'll  say  what  you  want  me  to  say, 

But  don't  ask  me  to  join  the  choir. 

I'll  say  what  you  want  me  to  say,  dear 
Lord, 

I  like  to  see  things  come  to  pass; 
But  don't  ask  me  to  teach  anywhere; 
I  would  much  rather  stay  in  my  class. 

I'll  give  what  you  want  me  to  give,  dear 
Lord; 

I  yearn  for  the  kingdom  to  thrive. 


First  Day 

I'll  give  you  some  pennies  and  nickels, 
But  don't  ask  me  to  pay  a  full  tithe. 

I'll  read  what  you  want  me  to  read,  dear 
Lord, 

If  genealogy  is  not  implied. 

I  never  did  like  to  search  books 

For  the  names  of  people  who've  died. 

I'll  give  what  you  want  me  to  give,  dear 
Lord, 

And  I'm  sure  I'll  not  begrudge  it, 
But  I  haven't  the  money  to  spare 
To  pay  on  welfare  or  budget. 

Yes,  I'll  go  where  you  want  me  to  go,  dear 
Lord; 

I'll  serve  you  with  all  my  might, 
But  don't  ask  me  to  go  to  the  temple 
Because  I'm  much  too  busy  each  night. 

The  Lord  is  with  all  those  who  try  to 
do  his  will.  The  greatest  blessings 
come  from  obedience.  When  we  demon- 
strate obedience,  the  Lord  is  bound  to 
bestow  upon  us  his  blessings.  Let  us 
help  each  other;  teach  our  neighbors. 
We  cannot  effectively  teach  what  we  do 
not  practise.  Seek  the  Lord  in  prayer, 
and  he  will  strengthen  your  faith  and 
give  you  courage  to  do.  If  you  desire 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  and  seek  them 
in  prayer,  with  faithful  obedience,  he 
will  open  the  way  for  you  to  do  his 
will  and  receive  those  blessings  which 
are  for  your  good. 

I  pray  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  be 
upon  all  of  us,  that  as  each  step  in  the 
gospel  comes  to  us  we  will  have  the 
power  to  accept  it  with  obedience,  and 
by  obedience  receive  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord,  that  we  may  even  receive  bless- 
ings of  exaltation  and  eternal  life.  These 
blessings  I  ask  from  the  Lord  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch 
to  the  Church,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us,  and  Elder 
Sonne  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Marion 
G.  Romney. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


33 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  I  want  tO 
join  with  President  McKay  in  ex- 
pressing appreciation  for  the  very 
fine  singing  to  which  we  have  listened 
today.  I  have  often  thought  that  we 
take  for  granted  the  singing  and  the  up- 
lift which  come  to  us  from  our  choirs, 
and  yet  we  know  that  singing  is  an 
essential  part  of  worship  and  that  we 
can  get  nearer  to  God  when  we  hear 
these  songs  of  Zion  than  we  can  in  any 
other  way.  I  wish  all  of  you  could 
have  heard  the  two  choirs  who  rendered 
the  music  in  the  Oahu  (Hawaii)  Stake 
of  Zion  a  week  ago  last  Sunday — one 
in  the  morning  and  one  in  the  evening 
service.  Everyone  present  was  thrilled 
as  the  choirs  sang  their  selections.  I 
have  heard  choirs  sing  in  all  parts  of 
the  world,  and  I  am  here  to  testify 
that  our  choirs  and  other  musical  groups 
are  improving  every  year,  and  I  sincerely 
hope  that  this  improvement  will  con- 
tinue throughout  the  Church  in  the 
various  stakes,  wards,  and  missions.  For 
one,  I  thank  the  leaders  for  their  devo- 
tion and  for  the  effort  they  put  forth 
to  instruct  our  singers. 

I  want  to  say  a  word  about  the  testi- 
mony which  comes  to  each  one  of  us 
who  is  active  in  the  Church.  A  testi- 
mony is  a  precious  gift  from  God.  I 
have  often  said  that  the  testimony  we 
possess,  you  and  I,  is  in  reality  the 
strength  of  the  Church. 

Not  very  long  ago,  a  man  who  was  in- 
vestigating the  Church  and  its  doctrines 
came  to  me  with  this  statement,  "I  have 
discovered  the  genius  of  Mormonism." 

I  was  interested,  of  course,  and  said 
to  him,  "What  is  it,  pray?" 

He  answered,  "It  is  your  machinery 
for  doing  religious  work."  Seeing  I  was 
not  particularly  impressed,  he  turned  to 
me  and  said,  "You  don't  believe  it,  do 
you?" 

"No,  I  don't  believe  it,"  I  replied,  and 
without  further  comment  he  left. 
Several  weeks  passed  before  the  man       I  recall  that  Jesus,  when  he  talked 


returned.  This  time  his  spirit  and  atti- 
tude were  altogether  different.  Upon 
entering  my  office  he  said,  "I  have  read 
the  Book  of  Mormon  from  cover  to 
cover." 

"Well,  brother,  what's  the  verdict?" 
I  asked. 

To  my  surprise  and  amazement  he 
replied,  "It  is  true." 

"Do  you  mean  to  say  you  believe 
the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true?" 

"Indeed,  I  do,"  he  replied,  "and  I 
believe  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God,  and  I  believe  you  Mormons,"  as 
he  called  us,  "have  the  restored  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ." 

Of  course,  I  was  very  happy.  But  I 
asked  him  another  question:  "Do  you 
still  believe  that  the  genius  of  Mormon- 
ism is  its  superb  organization?" 

He  answered,  "No,  never.  There  is 
something  back  of  that  organization  or 
it  would  not  function."  He  further 
said,  "The  thing  that  is  back  of  it  is 
the  individual  testimony  of  all  the  Mor- 
mons." 

I  am  sure  he  analyzed  the  situation 
correctly,  for  he  proceeded  to  tell  me, 
"If  it  had  not  been  for  the  well-founded 
faith  of  the  Pioneers,  they  would  never 
have  made  the  trek  across  the  prairies 
to  the  Rocky  Mountains."  He  further 
said,  "If  it  were  not  for  these  convictions, 
your  missionary  system  would  collapse, 
and  soon  you  would  have  no  mission- 
aries to  send  into  the  world.  Your  fiscal 
system  would  crumble  similarly,  for 
people  don't  pay  tithing  unless  they 
have  a  testimony." 

So  I  believe  it  is  our  paramount  duty 
today  and  always  to  safeguard  our  testi- 
monies and  to  live  so  that  we  will  never 
lose  them.  That  may  seem  like  a  big 
order,  but  I  am  sure  it  is  God's  will. 
May  he  help  us  to  appreciate  our  re- 
sponsibilities in  this  respect  and  may 
he  help  us  to  safeguard  our  God-given 
testimonies. 


34 


Friday,  October  2 

to  Nicodemus,  bore  his  testimony  when 
he  said, 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  We  speak 
that  we  do  know,  and  testify  that  we  have 
seen;  and  ye  receive  not  our  witness. 

If  I  have  told  you  earthly  things,  and 
ye  believe  not,  how  shall  ye  believe,  if  I 
tell  you  of  heavenly  things?  (John  3:11-12.) 

The  testimony  which  Peter  gave  to 
the  Savior  will  live  as  long  as  men  and 
women  believe  in  God.  "Thou  art  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,"  and 
the  Savior's  answer  will  similarly  live, 
"Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Bar-jona:  for 
flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto 
thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 
(See  Matt.  16:16-17.)  There,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  you  have  the  very  key- 
stone, the  source  and  explanation  of 
the  testimonies  which  are  the  strength 
of  the  Church. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

"...  I  know  whom  I  have  believed," 
(II  Tim.  1:12)  said  Paul,  the  Apostle, 
after  a  long  life  of  trial  and  persecution. 
Paul  knew,  for  he  had  lived  in  accord- 
ance with  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
And  finally,  said  Joseph  Smith  and  Sid- 
ney Rigdon, 

...  he  lives! 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand 
of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice  bearing 
record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the 
Father.  (D.  &  C.  76:22-23.) 

There  is  no  argument  against  testi- 
monies like  these,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  May  we  be  blessed  abundantly 
in  our  endeavors  to  serve  the  Lord  and 
preserve  in  our  lives  the  truths  of  the 
restored  gospel,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends:  I  have  in  my  pocket  a 
wonderful  talk,  one  I  have  been 
three  months  preparing.  I  find  it  neces- 
sary, however,  to  deprive  you  of  the 
great  pleasure  of  hearing  it  at  this  time 
because  it  has  already  been  given. 
President  McKay  gave  half  of  it,  and 
Bishop  Wirthlin  and  Brother  Lee  used 
most  of  my  scriptures.  I  am  very  happy, 
however,  to  be  in  harmony  with  them. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  be  with  me  now 
while  I  address  myself  to  another  sub- 
ject, one  that  has  been  going  through 
my  mind  this  afternoon.  I  need  your 
prayers  and  want  you  to  think  these 
few  remarks  through  with  me. 

The  subject  to  which  I  refer  is  the 
atonement  of  the  Savior,  and  surely 
there  could  be  no  more  appropriate 
theme  upon  which  this  meeting  could 
close.  The  atonement  of  the  Master 
is  the  central  point  of  world  history. 
Without  it,  the  whole  purpose  for  the 
creation  of  earth  and  our  living  upon 
it  would  fail. 
From  the  scriptures,  we  learn  that 


from  the  very  beginning  of  the  world, 
there  has  been  among  the  Lord's  people 
those  who  have  understood  the  gospel,  a 
ceremony  pointing  to  the  atonement  of 
the  Redeemer.  When  Adam  and  Eve 
were  driven  from  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
the  Lord  told  them  to  build  an  altar 
and  offer  sacrifice.  This  they  did,  and 
they  did  it  without  knowing  the  reason 
therefor.  I  wish  every  one  of  Adam's 
posterity  had  the  faith  of  their  first 
earthly  father,  the  faith  to  do  what  the 
Lord  tells  him  to  do  without  first  hav- 
ing to  have  an  explanation  as  to  why 
he  should  do  it.  But  to  continue  with 
our  theme: 

And  after  many  days  an  angel  of  the 
Lord  appeared  unto  Adam,  saying:  Why 
dost  thou  offer  sacrifices  unto  the  Lord? 
And  Adam  said ,  unto  him:  I  know  not, 
save  the  Lord  commanded  me. 

And  then  the  angel  spake,  saying:  This 
thing  is  a  similitude  of  the  sacrifice  of  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  which  is 
full  of  grace  and  truth.  (Moses  5:6-7.) 

The  angel  told  Adam  other  things — 
some  of  them  Brother  Lee  talked  about. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


35 


He  told  him  that  in  the  Meridian  of 
Time  the  Redeemer  would  come  into 
the  world,  and  that  until  he  should 
come  God's  people  were  to  offer  blood 
sacrifices  frequently.  This  they  were 
to  do  to  point  their  minds  forward  to 
the  day  when  the  Redeemer  would  come 
and  be  sacrificed  for  the  sins  of  the 
whole  world.  Then  the  angel  taught 
Adam  the  gospel  and  told  him  to  repent 
and  be  baptized,  as  quoted  here  this 
afternoon  by  Brother  Lee. 

From  the  days  of  Adam  to  the  days 
of  Jesus  Christ,  every  people  who  under- 
stood the  gospel  offered  blood  sacrifices, 
using  animals  or  birds  without  blemish. 
This  they  did  in  contemplation  of  the 
great  event  which  was  to  take  place  in 
the  Meridian  of  Time. 

When  Jesus  was  about  to  go  through 
that  terrible  suffering  incident  to  the 
atonement,  he  took  his  disciples  with 
him  to  the  Passover.  As  they  sat  in  an 
upper  chamber,  Jesus  broke  bread  and 
blessed  it,  and  gave  of  it  to  his  Apostles, 
telling  them  that  this  they  should  do 
often  in  remembrance  of  his  body  which 
was  soon  to  be  wounded  on  the  cross 
for  them,  and  for  you  and  for  me.  Then 
he  took  wine,  blessed  it,  and  gave  of  it 
to  them,  telling  them  to  do  this  often 
in  remembrance  of  his  blood  which  was 
to  be  spilled  for  them. 

Jesus  then  went  into  the  Garden  of 
Gethsemane.  There  he  suffered  most. 
He  suffered  greatly  on  the  cross,  of 
course,  but  other  men  had  died  by 
crucifixion;  in  fact,  a  man  hung  on 
either  side  of  him  as  he  died  on  the 
cross.  But  no  man,  nor  set  of  men, 
nor  all  men  put  together,  ever  suffered 
what  the  Redeemer  suffered  in  the 
Garden.  He  went  there  to  pray  and 
suffer.  One  of  the  New  Testament 
writers  says  that  it  "  .  .  .  was  as  it  were 
great  drops  of  blood  falling  down  to 
the  ground."  (Luke  22:44.) 

In  this  dispensation  the  Lord,  calling 
upon  the  people  to  repent,  tells  them 
that  unless  they  repent  they  must 
suffer  even  as  he  suffered.  He  describes 
that  suffering  in  these  words: 


Which  suffering  caused  myself,  even  God, 
the  greatest  of  all,  to  tremble  because  of 
pain,  and  to  bleed  at  every  pore,  and  to 
suffer  both  body  and  spirit — and  would  that 
I  might  not  drink  the  bitter  cup,  and 
shrink — 

Nevertheless,  glory  be  to  the  Father,  and 
I  partook  and  finished  my  preparations  unto 
the  children  of  men.  (D.  &  C.  19:18-19.) 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  can- 
not here  discuss  with  you  in  detail  what 
the  atonement  of  the  Savior  means  to 
us.  But  without  it,  no  man  or  woman 
would  ever  be  resurrected.  From  Adam's 
time  to  the  time  of  Jesus,  men  died — 
millions  of  them.  The  hills  and  vales 
were  full  of  their  remains.  But  not  a 
single  one  of  them  ever  came  out  of  the 
grave  as  a  resurrected  person  until  that 
glorious  morning  when  Jesus  was  resur- 
rected. Without  his  victory  over  death, 
they  never  would  have  come  out  of 
their  graves,  worlds  without  end.  It 
took  the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
reunite  the  bodies  and  spirits  of  men 
in  the  resurrection.  And  so  all  the 
world,  believers  and  non-believers,  are 
indebted  to  the  Redeemer  for  their 
certain  resurrection,  because  the  resur- 
rection will  be  as  wide  as  was  the  fall, 
which  brought  death  to  every  man. 

There  is  another  phase  of  the  atone- 
ment which  makes  me  love  the  Savior 
even  more,  and  fills  my  soul  with  grati- 
tude beyond  expression.  It  is  that  in 
addition  to  atoning  for  Adam's  trans- 
gression, thereby  bringing  about  the 
resurrection,  the  Savior  by  his  suffering 
paid  the  debt  for  my  personal  sins. 
He  paid  the  debt  for  your  personal 
sins  and  for  the  personal  sins  of  every 
living  soul  that  ever  dwelt  upon  the 
earth  or  that  ever  will  dwell  in  mor- 
tality upon  the  earth.  But  this  he  did 
conditionally.  The  benefits  of  this  suf- 
fering for  our  individual  transgressions 
will  not  come  to  us  unconditionally  in 
the  same  sense  that  the  resurrection  will 
come  regardless  of  what  we  do.  If  we 
partake  of  the  blessings  of  the  atonement 
as  far  as  our  individual  transgressions 
are  concerned,  we  must  obey  the  law. 

And  it  is  perfectly  just  that  we  are 
required  to  obey  it  because  through 


36  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  2 

the  fall  of  Adam,  man's  free  agency 
was  preserved.  We  had  nothing  to  do 
with  death's  coming  into  the  world; 
death  came  as  a  consequence  of  Adam's 
fall.  But  we  have  everything  to  do 
with  our  own  acts.  When  we  commit 
sin,  we  are  estranged  from  God  and 
rendered  unfit  to  enter  into  his  presence. 
No  unclean  thing  can  enter  into  his 
presence.  We  cannot  of  ourselves,  no 
matter  how  we  may  try,  rid  ourselves 
of  the  stain  which  is  upon  us  as  a  re- 
sult of  our  own  transgressions.  That 
stain  must  be  washed  away  by  the 
blood  of  the  Redeemer,  and  he  has  set 
up  the  way  by  which  that  stain  may  be 
removed.  That  way  is  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  The  gospel  requires  us 
to  believe  in  the  Redeemer,  accept  his 
atonement,  repent  of  our  sins,  be  bap- 
tized by  immersion  for  the  remission  of 
our  sins,  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  and 
continue  faithfully  to  observe,  or  do  the 
best  we  can  to  observe,  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  all  the  days  of  our  lives. 

We  have  in  the  Church  an  ordinance 
which  I  have  explained.  It  is  the  sacra- 
ment. The  Lord  has  commanded  us 
to  partake  of  the  sacrament  regularly. 
Members  of  his  Church  are  by  him  di- 
rected to  go  on  the  Sabbath  day  to  the 
sacrament  meeting,  and  there  partake  of 
the  sacrament.  And  what  are  we  to  do 
when  we  partake  of  the  sacrament?  We 
are  to  think  of  all  these  things  above 
mentioned,  and  many  more.  If  I  can 
remember  one  of  the  prayers,  I  will 
conclude  with  it.  This  is  what  we  go  to 
the  sacrament  meeting  for;  this  is  what 
we  ought  to  do  when  we  are  there. 
Think  about  it: 

O  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  we  ask  thee 
in  the  name  of  thy  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  to 
bless  and  sanctify  this  bread  to  the  souls 
of  all  those  who  partake  of  it,  that  they 
may  eat  in  remembrance  of  the  body  of 
thy  Son,  .  .  . 

What  we  ought  to  do  when  we  partake 
of  the  sacrament  is  think  of  the  Re- 
deemer— of  his  wounded  body  as  we 
partake  of  the  bread,  and  of  his  spilt 
blood  when  we  partake  of  the  water. 


First  Day 

.  .  .  and  witness  unto  thee,  O  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  .  .  . 

A  witness  is  a  testimony.  We  ought, 
silently,  to  testify  to  our  Father — 

.  .  .  that  they  are  willing  to  take  upon 
them  the  name  of  thy  Son,  and  always 
remember  him  and  keep  his  commandments 
which  he  has  given  them;  .  .  . 

And  to  what  end? 

.  .  .  that  they  may  always  have  his  Spirit 
to  be  with  them.  (D.  &  C.  20:77.) 

God  help  us  to  renew  our  covenants 
every  week  in  this  manner,  and  remem- 
ber the  redemption  wrought  for  us  by 
our  great  Redeemer,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken 
to  us. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  "Peace  I  Leave 
With  You,"  with  Sister  Florence  Jep- 
person  Madsen  conducting. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
President  James  V.  Thompson  of  the 
Richland  Stake,  after  which  this  Con- 
ference will  stand  adjourned  until  10 
o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 

Tonight  at  7  o'clock  here  in  the 
Tabernacle,  under  the  direction  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric,  there  will  be  held 
a  meeting  of  the  Bishoprics  of  the 
Church,  members  of  Stake  and  Ward 
Committees  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
under  21;  Senior  Members  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  including  High 
Councilmen  in  charge  of  these  pro- 
grams; Stake  Presidencies  and  High 
Councilmen  are  also  invited  to  be  in  at- 
tendance. There  will  also  be  held  to- 
night in  the  Assembly  Hall  a  meeting  of 
the  Melchizedek  Quorum  officers.  All 
those  who  are  engaged  in  the  Melchize- 
dek Priesthood  quorum  work  and  class 
instructors  and  others  will  please  take 
notice  and  be  in  attendance  at  7  o'clock. 

The  music  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  seventeen  stakes  in 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


37 


the  Central  Utah  and  Mt.  Timpanogos 
Region,  conducted  as  we  have  an- 
nounced several  times  by  Sister  Madsen. 
Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  has  been  at  the 
organ  this  afternoon.  We  have  been 
thrilled  and  inspired  by  the  singing  of 
this  wonderful  chorus.  You  did  not 
know,  however,  and  I  didn't  until  after 
the  session,  that  that  second  anthem 
this  morning,  "My  Soul  Is  Athirst  for 
God,"  was  composed,  by  Sister  Madsen 
herself.  No  wonder  this  gifted  woman 
can  inspire  with  her  leadership  as  she 
has  done  this  day.  We  are  grateful  to 
her  and  to  our  Singing  Mothers  for  the 
inspiring  contribution  they  have  made 
this  day,  as  they  have  heretofore.  The 
Lord  bless  them  abundantly. 


"Peace  I  Leave  with  You"  will  now  be 
sung  by  this  musical  organization,  and 
prayer  will  be  offered  by  President 
Thompson. 

After  the  benediction  by  President 
James  V.  Thompson  of  the  Richland 
Stake,  this  Conference  will  be  ad- 
journed until  tomorrow  morning  at 
10  o'clock. 


Selection  by  the  Singing  Mothers: 
"Peace  I  Leave  With  You." 

President  James  V.  Thompson  of  the 
Richland  Stake  offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00  a.m., 
Saturday,  October  3. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  third  session  of  the  great  Confer- 
ence convened  in  the' Tabernacle  Satur- 
day morning,  October  3,  and  was  opened 
promptly  at  10  o'clock  by  President 
David  O.  McKay,  who  presided  and 
conducted  the  services. 

A  choir  consisting  of  German-speaking 
members  of  the  Church  under  the 
leadership  of  Heinz  Rimmasch,  fur- 
nished the  choral  music  for  this  session. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

On  this  glorious  autumn  morning,  the 
First  Presidency  and  General  Authorities 
extend  hearty  greetings  and  welcome 
to  all  who  are  assembled  and  who  are 
listening  in  to  this,  the  124th  Semi-An- 
nual  Conference  of  the  Church.  This 
third  session  is  being  held  in  Temple 
Square,  Salt  Lake  City;  the  grounds  are 
beautiful,  the  flowers  and  lawns  well 
kept. 

This  session  will  be  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  60 
North  Main  Street,  both  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system  and  by  television.  The 
services  will  also  be  televised  over  Sta- 
tion KSL-TV,  channel  five,  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  will  be  heard  over  radio  sta- 


tion KSL  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  over  12  radio  stations  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Arizona,  Nevada,  Colorado,  the 
names  of  which  stations  have  already 
been  announced  to  the  radio  audience. 

We  desire  to  express  our  appreciation 
to  these  various  radio  and  television  sta- 
tions for  their  courtesy  in  making  avail- 
able their  time  and  facilities  for  these 
broadcasts.  Telegrams  this  morning  and 
letters  indicate  how  the  people  through- 
out this  Western  territory  appreciate  the 
services  thus  rendered  by  the  radio  sta- 
tions. 

The  singing  for  this  session  will  be 
furnished  by  German-speaking  members 
of  the  Church  who  constitute  this  choir, 
with  Elder  Heinz  Rimmasch  conducting. 
Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Choir  singing,  "Come  O  Thou  King  of 
Kings,"  conducted  by  Elder  Rimmasch. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Arwell  L.  Pierce,  President  of  the 
Arizona  Temple. 


The  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings." 

Elder  Arwell  L.  Pierce  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 


38 

Saturday,  October  3 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  attendance 
this  morning  of  prominent  state  offi- 
cials, government  officials,  leaders  in 
educational  circles,  and  others.  We  do 
not  have  their  names,  but  we  bid  you 
all  welcome. 

The  German  Choir  of  the  Church 
will    now    favor    us    with,  "Though 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Deep'ning  Trials  Throng  Your  Way," 
conducted  by  Elder  Heinz  Rimmasch, 
Brother  Asper  at  the  organ.  Following 
the  singing,  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.,  of  the  First  Presidency,  will  address 
us. 


Singing  by  the  German  choir, 
"Though  Deep'ning  Trials  Throng  Your 
Way." 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brothers  and  sisters:  This  is  an 
humbling  experience.  I  pray  the 
Lord  will  bless  me  while  I  stand 
before  you,  and  I  ask  that  you  be  good 
enough  to  add  your  prayers  to  mine  that 
I  may  say  something  that  will  be  useful, 
upbuilding,  and  encouraging  to  all  of 
us. 

I  am  partly  in  the  unfortunate  situa- 
tion that  Brother  Romney  found  himself 
yesterday.  Others  that  have  spoken 
have  gone  over  my  ground.  However, 
I  am  not  like  him,  I  have  not  a  good 
talk  in  my  coat  pocket.  Brother  Lee 
and  Brother  Romney  went  over  much 
of  the  ground,  some  of  which  I  shall 
try  to  cover  this  morning.  I  have  made 
my  peace  with  them. 

So  far  as  we  know,  humankind  have 
been  afflicted  with  great  crises  since 
the  grand  council  in  heaven.  We  are 
in  the  midst  of  a  great  crisis  now,  and 
curiously,  the  crisis  which  we  now  face 
has  in  it  and  is  a  part  of  it,  the  great 
elemental  principle  that  was  in  the 
first  crisis  that  occurred  in  the  council 
in  heaven — the  free  agency  of  man. 

I  should  like  to  personalize  that  coun- 
cil a  little  more  than  I  have  usually 
thought.  Two  great  rival  personages 
were  in  that  conference,  one  standing 
with  the  Father.  As  the  chronology  is 
given  in  the  book,  it  appears  that,  first, 
they  found  space  in  which  to  build  an 
earth;  then  they  provided  that  this  earth 
should  be  built;  that  the  spirits  should 
come  here  to  prove  themselves  whether 
they  would  obey  the  commandments  of 


the  Lord,  and  they  were  told  of  the  re- 
wards that  would  come  to  them  if  they 
did,  and  the  punishments  if  they  did 
not. 

Then  the  question  arose  with  the 
Father,  "Whom  shall  I  send?"  The 
plan  called  for  redemption.  One  stood 
forth  and  said,  "I  will  redeem  all  man- 
kind. Not  one  soul  will  be  lost.  I 
will  surely  do  it.  So  send  me."  That 
plan,  when  analyzed,  involved,  as  the 
Lord  has  told  us  time  and  again,  the 
destruction  of  our  free  agency.  Just 
how  we  were  to  be  redeemed  under  the 
plan  and  yet  destroy  our  free  agency, 
we  are  not  told.  The  proposer  of  that 
plan  said  to  our  heavenly  Father,  "Give 
me  thine  honor."  (See  Moses  4:1-2; 
Abraham  3:27.)  And  our  heavenly  Father 
has  told  us  that  that  meant  that  he 
should  surrender  to  the  proposer,  his 
power,  and  he,  the  Father,  become  more 
or  less  a  nonentity,  I  suppose. 

Then  the  other  Personage  said,  "Send 
me,  and  the  honor  will  be  thine."  The 
heavenly  Father  chose  the  latter,  the 
Only  Begotten,  who  was  to  be  sent  to 
this  earth. 

Now  this  first  personage,  Satan — I  can 
understand  that  his  proposal  was  based 
upon  the  proposition  that  since  the 
Father  was  the  Father  of  all  his  children 
and  loved  them,  nothing  could  be  more 
satisfactory  to  the  Father  than  the  prom- 
ise to  redeem  them  all.  It  was  a  subtle 
approach,  and,  of  course,  God  saw  it. 
Satan  was  "cast  down,"  and  with  him 
went  one-third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


39 


He  declared  by  his  rebellion  eternal 
enmity  toward  the  plan  that  was 
adopted,  and  from  that  time  until  now, 
he  has  constantly  sought  to  build  the 
empire,  the  kingdom  for  which  he 
planned,  by  leading  us  astray.  He  has 
never  relented  for  a  moment.  Having 
our  agency,  he  was  to  lead  us  to  do 
evil. 

He  first  struck  at  Adam  and  Eve  in 
the  garden  and  secured  from  them  diso- 
bedience. There  is  much  in  the  scrip- 
ture that  indicates  that  mere  obedience, 
per  se,  irrespective  of  what  the  obedience 
involved,  is  a  great  virtue  in  itself. 
Mere  obedience  in  spiritual  matters  re- 
quires that  on  occasion  it  shall  be  blind 
obedience  because  the  Lord  cannot  ex- 
plain to  us  all  the  things  that  he  asks 
us  to  do.  We  could  not  understand. 

You  know,  Satan  won  with  Eve,  but 
Eve,  when  she  understood,  gave  a  great 
hymn  of  praise  that  she  had  fallen  be- 
cause now  they  would  have  seed,  and 
they  could  not  have  had  seed  had  the 
fall  not  taken  place. 

Adam  and  Eve  were  thrust  out  of  the 
Garden  of  Eden;  they  became  mortal, 
subject  to  temporal  death;  but  the  Lord 
then  said,  and  did  as  he  said,  that  he 
would  give  to  Adam  the  gospel  plan  by 
which  the  spirits  that  were  to  come  here 
could  live  and  gain  the  reward  which 
he  had  promised.  That  gospel  plan  he 
gave,  and  when  he  gave  it,  he  said  it 
would  never  be  taken  away  until  the 
end  of  the  world.  It  is  my  faith  that 
the  gospel  plan  has  always  been  here, 
that  his  priesthood  has  always  been 
here  on  the  earth,  and  that  it  will  con- 
tinue to  be  so  until  the  end  comes. 
(While  through  the  apostasy  since  the 
time  of  Christ,  the  priesthood  was  lost 
to  the  people  generally  and  to  the 
Christian  churches,  yet  there  have  al- 
ways been  on  the  earth  from  the  be- 
ginning, servants  of  the  Lord  who  have 
held  the  priesthood.  See:  as  to  the 
descent  of  the  priesthood  down  through 
Moses,  D.  &  C.  84:6-17,  25-26;  as  to 
Moses,  Elias,  Elijah,  D.  &  C.  110:11-15; 
as  to  the  Apostle  John,  John  21:22-23; 
and  as  to  the  Three  Nephites,  3  Nephi 


28:1-10.  See  Teachings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  Smith,  pp.  180-181.) 

When  Adam  began  to  rear  a  family, 
Satan  struck  again.  This  time  he  di- 
vided the  family.  Part  of  them  became 
worldly  and  wicked,  and  that  wicked- 
ness increased.  Part  of  them  were 
righteous.  Brother  Lee,  yesterday  traced 
down  the  dispensations.  There  is  no 
need  of  my  retracing  their  course.  These 
dispensations  were,  each  of  them,  a  crisis. 
The  dispensation  in  which  Enoch  lived 
afforded  Enoch  a  chance  to  demonstrate 
that  he  could  do  what  no  other  leader 
of  a  dispensation  has  ever  done — pre- 
pare a  people  to  be  taken  into  the 
presence  of  our  heavenly  Father.  That 
was  the  greatest  achievement  of  any 
leader  of  any  dispensation. 

Before  the  Meridian  of  Time  and  the 
birth  of  the  Messiah,  mankind  looked 
forward  thereto.  Before  that,  all  of  the 
rituals  pertaining  to  the  gospel  looked  to 
the  Messiah,  to  his  birth,  as  Brother 
Romney  told  us.  Since  that  time,  we 
honor  him,  and  our  ritual,  the  sacra- 
ment, relates  back  to  that  time.  We 
make  covenants  when  we  partake  of  the 
sacrament.  But  also,  and  ever  since 
that  time,  we  have  been  told  that  there 
would  be  a  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness 
of  Times.  And  as  Brother  Lee  pointed 
out,  we  now  are  in  that  dispensation, 
we  are  in  the  dispensation  which  is  to 
prepare  for  the  Second  Coming,  toward 
which  all  true  Christians  look. 

The  particular  thing  that  I  wish  to 
say  today  is  this:  Being  in  that  last 
dispensation,  representing  our  heavenly 
Father  therein,  we  have  great  responsi- 
bilities. If  the  world  is  to  be  prepared 
for  the  Second  Coming,  we  must  do  it 
No  one  else  has  the  knowledge.  No 
one  else  has  the  authority.  The  re- 
sponsibility is  ours.  The  last  dispensa- 
tion has  welded  together  all  of  the 
doctrines  and  principles  of  the  gospel 
that  were  advanced  in  former  dispensa- 
tions. We  have  the  priesthood  bestowed 
by  heavenly  hands.  We  have  the 
restoration  of  the  keys,  conferred  in  the 
Kirtland  Temple  when  Moses  and  Elias 
and  Elijah  came.    We  have  all  of  the 


40 

Saturday,  October  3 

authority,  all  of  the  principles  that  are 
necessary  for  the  great  work  of  prepara- 
tion; and  ours,  I  repeat,  is  the  sole  re- 
sponsibility to  go  forward  and  see  that 
our  mission  is  carried  out. 

We  must  live  righteously.  We  must 
keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 
We  must  do  his  work.  He  has  told 
us  what  we  are  to  do,  and  if  we  are  to 
gain  the  salvation  which  we  hope  and 
expect  to  gain  and  meet  our  responsi- 
bilities, we  must  obey  what  he  has  told 
us  to  do. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  if  we  think 
of  this  carefully,  I  am  sure  we  cannot 
approach  our  work  in  the  Church  with 
lightmindedness.  I  am  sure  we  shall 
have  to  be  a  prayerful  people.  I  am 
sure  we  shall  have  to  live  in  accordance 
with  the  commandments  which  he  has 
given.  I  am  sure  we  must  use  our  ut- 
most endeavors  to  build  up  the  king- 
dom of  God  here  on  earth. 

I  hope,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that 
we  shall  not  be  remiss  in  anything  that 
pertains  to  ourselves  or  to  our  activities 
in  the  Church. 

I  add  again  my  testimony,  which  I 
have  borne  time  and  again,  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he 
came  to  earth,  lived,  moved  among  men, 
carried  on  his  mission,  that  in  due  time 
and  in  accordance  with  the  plan,  he  was 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

crucified,  and  lay  in  the  tomb,  and  rose 
on  the  third  morning.  I  testify  that 
Joseph  was  the  Prophet  through  whom 
the  Lord  re-established  his  Church  here 
on  earth,  so  ushering  in  this  last  Dis- 
pensation of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  for 
the  carrying  forward  of  which  and  the 
perfecting  of  which  we  are  responsible, 
that  the  priesthood  came,  that  the  gospel 
was  fully  restored. 

I  testify  that  those  who  followed  the 
Prophet  succeeded  to  his  powers,  to  his 
rights  and  prerogatives  and  that  has 
come  down  through  to  our  present 
President,  President  David  Oman 
McKay.  I  testify  that  if  we  will  follow 
the  advice  and  the  counsel  of  those  who 
are  placed  over  us,  we  shall  carry  for- 
ward the  work  which  we  are  obliged  to 
do — I  say  obliged,  because  we  are. 

May  the  Lord  bless  each  and  every 
one  of  us  and  help  us  to  do  our  part, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the 
First  Presidency,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Thomas 
E.  McKay,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  who 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Antoine  R. 
Ivins. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Anostles 


President  McKay,  Counselors,  Presi- 
dent Smith,  other  members  of  the 
General  Authorities,  brethren  and 
sisters: 

I  am  very  thankful  for  this  oppor- 
tunity of  being  here  this  morning.  I 
have  enjoyed  the  services  thus  far,  and 
especially  the  opening  address  of  Presi- 
dent McKay  yesterday  morning.  I  pray 
humbly  that  the  same  spirit  that  has 
prompted  all  those  who  have  spoken 
will  help  me,  also.  I  feel  very  humble, 
and  my  heart  is  full  of  thanksgiving 
at  this  time  for  this  opportunity  of 
again  bearing  my  testimony  to  you  that 


the  gospel  is  true,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ 
and  is  head  of  this  Church. 

I  feel  more  grateful  than  ever  this 
morning  for  my  mother,  that  she  was 
instrumental  in  insisting  on  my  father's 
accepting  his  call  to  go  into  the  mission 
field  at  the  time  he  was  called  and 
would  not  permit  him  to  postpone  that 
call  for  a  year  because  of  her  delicate 
condition.  That  was  a  great  decision 
in  the  history  of  the  David  McKay 
family,  and  I  appreciate  it  more  this 
morning  than  ever.  She  said,  "David, 
you  go  on  that  mission.  The  Lord 
wants  you  now,  not  a  year  from  now. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


41 


He  can  take  care  of  me  when  you  are 
in  Scotland  as  well  as  if  you  were  at 
my  bedside."  It  was  just  ten  days  after 
he  left  for  the  mission  field  that  a  beauti- 
ful little  spirit,  one  of  the  choicest, 
came  to  our  home.  She  was  over  two 
years  old  before  my  father  saw  her. 

I  say  I  am  grateful  that  that  decision 
was  made  to  go  on  a  mission  at  that 
time.  I  love  the  missionary  work,  and 
I  am  so  grateful  to  hear  the  beautiful 
voices  of  our  German  Saints.  It  is  a 
wonderful  choir,  and  I  congratulate 
them.  I  am  proud  of  them.  I  thought 
perhaps  I  had  heard  some  of  the  voices 
over  in  Germany  and  Switzerland,  but 
they  all  sounded  so  young  and  fresh 
that  I  think  perhaps  they  were  born 
since  I  left.  Anyhow,  it  is  a  fine  choir, 
and  I  congratulate  them. 

I  recall  that  just  fifty-three  years  ago 
(now  you  know  why  I  think  they  are 
too  young) — I  am  going  to  reminisce. 
I  had  decided  I  would  not,  because  it 
is  a  sign  of  old  age,  but  I  suppose  I  am 
as  I  was  the  first  time  I  rode  a  bicycle. 
Mother  told  me  not  to  go  on  the  high- 
way. I  just  reached  the  highway  and 
had  to  turn  around,  and  there  was  a 
telephone  pole  and  a  heavy  brace.  I 
kept  my  eye  on  that  pole  and  determined 
not  to  hit  it,  but  I  hit  it.  That  is  the 
way  I  am  with  reminiscing,  I  guess — but 
hearing  this  fine  German  choir  is  partly 
the  cause  of  it. 

Fifty-three  years  ago,  I  recall  the  first 
mission-wide  conference  that  I  attended 
after  arriving  there.  It  was  in  Berlin. 
President  Francis  M.  Lyman  was  presi- 
dent of  the  European  Mission.  He  had 
invited  to  accompany  him  my  good 
friend,  George  Q.  Morris,  one  of  my 
classmates,  and  I  knew  more  of  the 
singers  that  were  there,  the  students, 
than  I  did  the  missionaries.  It  was  a 
thrill  to  meet  them. 

Our  Church  has  always  been  in- 
terested in  the  young  people  studying 
music,  and  I  was  happy  at  that  confer- 
ence to  see  so  many  of  our  students 
there.  The  state  of  Utah  has  been 
proud,  too.  At  that  time  we  had  more 
young  people  abroad  studying  music 


than  any  other  state  in  the  Union, 
according  to  population.  Of  course,  that 
was  before  World  War  I,  and  Berlin 
and  Vienna  were  the  centers  of  cul- 
ture so  far  as  music  was  concerned. 
Those  students — and  I  want  to  pay 
tribute  to  them — it  has  been  my  expe- 
rience that  they  have  always  been 
willing,  no  matter  what  their  positions — 
one  of  them  sang  in  the  Kaiser's  Opera 
House,  but  they  were  always  willing 
and  pleased  to  take  part  in  the  branches 
and  help  the  missionaries. 

I  was  amused  after  that  trip,  to  re- 
ceive a  book  from  Brother  Morris,  his 
Baedeker's  Rhine.  He  wanted  to  pre- 
pare before  he  came  into  Germany,  and 
he  bought  this  Baedeker's  Rhine  as  a 
guidebook,  and  he  was  kind  enough 
after  he  arrived  in  London — he  was 
President  of  the  London  Conference — 
to  send  this  book  to  me.  On  the  flyleaf 
was  written,  pardon  me  (Brother  Morris 
and  Sister  Morris)  was  written  in  quo- 
tation marks,  "Good-bye,  Sweet  Day." 
That  is  one  of  Sister  Morris'  favorite 
songs.  I  remember  Anthony  Lund,  later 
to  be  conductor  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  told  me  once  that  nobody  could 
sing  that  song  just  as  Sister  Emma 
Ramsey  could  sing  it,  and  it  was  "Good- 
bye, Single  Bliss,"  also,  Brother  Morris, 
as  far  as  you  were  concerned.  She  had 
rendered  it  at  that  conference.  It  was 
a  wonderful  conference. 

After  that  session  we  went  down  to 
Frankfurt  on  the  Main,  and  I  had  head- 
quarters in  that  mission  for  thirty 
months.  I  was  worried,  of  course,  about 
the  conference.  I  had  the  responsi- 
bility. We  had  the  largest  hall  in 
Frankfurt  at  one  of  the  big  hotels.  We 
had  freedom  there.  Frankfurt  is  what 
we  call  a  freistadt,  and  always  has  been, 
a  free  city;  it  did  not  belong  to  any 
kingdom  but  did  belong  to  the  German 
Empire. 

We  had  to  register  our  meetings, 
however,  and  we  became  acquainted 
with  the  policemen  who  used  to  attend, 
and  we  would  always  speak  to  them  on 
the  streets  as  we  met  them,  and  they 
were  our  friends.    But  at  this  confer- 


42 

Saturday,  October  3 

ence — it  was  new,  we  had  to  register 
it,  of  course — none  of  our  friends  came 
to  represent  the  authorities,  but  a  young 
officer  (in  a  new  suit,  his  sword 
shined)  came  in.  Our  reception  com- 
mittee met  him  and  offered  to  show 
him  to  a  seat  on  the  stand,  but  that 
would  not  do.  He  took  a  seat  in  the 
choir,  the  soprano  section.  He  made 
himself  conspicuous.  He  had  me  wor- 
ried. I  thought,  maybe  we  will  have 
some  trouble  here,  but  after  the  first 
song  by  the  congregation,  and  the  prayer, 
Sister  Emma  Lucy  Gates  Bowen,  sang 
"I  Know  that  My  Redeemer  Lives," 
and  oh,  how  she  did  sing  it.  Right 
after  that  the  choir,  and  we  had  a  good 
choir — the  missionaries  were  there 
helping,  as  usual — sang  that  favorite 
Mormon  hymn,  "Oh,  My  Father."  They 
stood  up  to  sing  it.  When  they  sat 
down,  I  looked  for  our  German  officer, 
but  he  had  disappeared.  He  was  so 
ashamed  of  the  way  he  had  acted  there, 
and  then  to  hear  that  beautiful  singing, 
and  see  that  wonderful  choir  and  hear 
them,  he  decided  that  this  was  not 
any  place  for  him. 

The  next  day  we  took  a  trip  down 
the  Rhine,  Brother  Lyman  and  Brother 
Morris  returning  to  England.  Some  of 
the  presidents  of  the  other  conferences 
were  accompanying  us,  and  we  went  on 
and  finished  the  tour  of  the  Frankfurt 
Conference.  Brother  William  Seeg- 
miller  was  one  of  those  presidents — 
he  was  president  of  the  Berlin  Con- 
ference at  the  time;  Brother  Heppler 
was  another.  You  may  think  I  am 
bragging  now,  but  in  that  mission  under 
Hugh  J.  Cannon,  one  of  the  greatest 
missionaries  the  Church  has  produced, 
there  were  President  Mabey,  President 
Neslen,  and  President  Seegmiller,  and 
as  I  have  stated,  Brother  Heppler.  Soon 
after  we  returned  home,  the  German 
Mission,  as  President  Cannon  said,  had 
taken  over  the  state:  Brother  Mabey  was 
governor  (this  was  all  at  the  same  time) ; 
Brother  Neslen  was  mayor  of  Salt  Lake 
City;  Brother  Seegmiller,  speaker  of  the 
house;  Brother  Heppler,  floor  leader  in 
the  house;  and  I  was  president  of  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

senate.  We  were  all  German  mission- 
aries there  together. 

But  I  want  to  refer  to  the  soloists  that 
were  there,  the  students  that  were  study- 
ing in  music,  and  pay  tribute  to  them  for 
the  help  they  gave  us  in  our  missionary 
work.  God  bless  their  memory.  I  think 
it  was  that  trip  down  the  Rhine  where 
we  got  so  well  acquainted  with  Brother 
Lyman,  listening  to  some  of  his  stories 
about  early  Church  history.  Perhaps 
this  visit  and  better  acquaintance  with 
President  Francis  M.  Lyman  had  a 
bearing  on  my  call  on  my  second  mis- 
sion, six  years  after  I  returned  from  my 
first,  at  least,  President  Lyman  led  me 
to  believe  so.  I  had  been  called  to 
another  very  important  position;  I  ac- 
cepted and  told  the  presidency  of  the 
Weber  Stake  I  would  rather  go  to  South 
Africa  or  any  other  place  on  a  mission 
than  accept,  but  I  accepted  it,  as  bishop 
of  one  of  the  wards.  I  went  home  from 
the  party  that  night  and  had  a  good 
cry. 

I  did  not  hear  any  more  of  that  call, 
however,  to  the  bishopric.  The  breth- 
ren, contrary  to  instructions,  had  spoken 
to  me  before  they  had  sent  my  name 
in  to  the  General  Authorities  for  their 
approval,  so  the  next  thing  I  knew  I 
was  called  to  preside  over  the  Swiss- 
German  Mission.  When  I  met  Presi- 
dent Lyman  on  the  street,  he  smiled 
and  said,  "Brother  Thomas,  it  is  a  good 
thing  sometimes  to  have  a  friend  at 
court."  And  I  took  it  from  that  that  he 
had  had  something  to  do  with  the 
change  from  being  bishop  to  presiding 
over  that  mission. 

That  is  why,  six  years  after  that  first 
mission,  I  was  back  there  again,  this 
time  to  preside  over  the  Swiss-German 
Mission,  which  comprised  France, 
Switzerland,  Germany,  Austria,  Hun- 
gary, and  part  of  Romania.  It  was  a 
great  experience,  brothers  and  sisters, 
and  I  am  so  grateful  this  morning  for 
that  missionary  experience. 

Yes,  we  had  our  choirs  there  to  help 
us.  I  tell  you,  music  is  one  of  the 
greatest  helps  that  the  missionaires 
have  in  spreading  the  gospel.   We  had 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


43 


choirs  in  Konigsberg,  way  up  in  East 
Prussia,  Hamburg,  Berlin,  Frankfurt  on 
the  Main,  Chemnitz,  a  large  choir, 
Zurich  down  in  Switzerland,  and  Basel, 
and  these  choirs  composed  largely,  no, 
not  largely,  but  quite  a  percentage  of 
them  were  friends,  investigators.  They 
were  not  investigators  long  after  they 
began  singing  our  hymns  and  partaking 
of  the  spirit  of  these  beautiful  singers; 
they  became  members  also.  Music  has 
been  a  great  help  in  spreading  the  gos- 
pel. 

I  want  to  mention  and  pay  tribute  to 
Professor  Thomas  Giles,  Tom  Giles,  as 
I  always  called  him.  He  was  there  in 
Vienna  studying.  He  was  there  when 
we  baptized  the  first  two  members,  a 
father  and  his  daughter,  and  he  re- 
mained there,  after  six  years,  and  took 
over  the  singing  and  often  the  preach- 
ing. He  was  a  great  help,  as  were  all 
the  singers.   God  bless  them. 

In  1937  we  were  called  to  preside 
over  the  Swiss-German  Mission  with  in- 
structions to  make  three  missions  out  of 
the  two,  that  is  the  German- Austrian 
and  Swiss-German.  Out  of  this  grew 
the  East  German  mission  with  head- 
quarters in  Berlin,  the  West  German 
mission  with  headquarters  in  Frank- 
furt, and  the  Swiss-Austrian  mission 
with  headquarters  in  Basel,  Switzerland. 

President  Reese  had  been  released  on 
account  of  illness,  and  I  was  then  ap- 
pointed the  president  of  the  East  Ger- 
man mission  with  instructions  to  con- 
tinue as  president  of  the  Swiss-Austrian 
until  my  successor  was  appointed.  I 
was  in  Berlin  when  war  was  declared. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and 
his  wife  were  there  touring  the  mission; 
they  had  just  about  finished.  They 
were  hurrying  to  catch  their  ship,  and 
a  cablegram  came  from  the  First  Presi- 
dency when  war  was  declared,  to  cancel 
their  passages  and  remain  there  and 
help  get  the  missionaries  home.  So  they 
had  to  get  out  of  Germany.  They  were 
in  the  West  German  Mission  at  the 
time.  They  left  for  Copenhagen  where 
I  had  sent  all  of  the  missionaries  from 
the   East   German   Mission.  Brother 


Wood  went  up  there  with  more  than 
half  of  his  missionaries,  the  others 
leaving  via  Holland,  but  Brother  Mark 
Garff  was  presiding  there  in  Copen- 
hagen in  the  Danish  Mission  and 
with  the  added  responsibilities  was 
equal  to  the  task  as  usual.  He  took  care 
of  all  of  them,  and  with  the  assistance 
of  President  Smith,  did  wonderful  work; 
all  of  the  missionaries  were  returned 
home. 

Since  I  was  in  Switzerland,  I  was 
permitted  to  remain  a  little  longer  than 
the  others.  Our  Consul  General  Boer- 
man  in  Basel — oh,  I  will  never  forget 
him — made  it  possible  through  the  of- 
fices of  the  Consul  General  to  telephone 
to  any  of  the  headquarters  that  I  wanted 
to — Brother  Brown  over  in  London, 
Brother  Joseph  Evans  in  Paris,  and 
Brother  Murdock  in  Holland,  the 
Netherlands  Mission,  and  then  up  to 
Copenhagen  where  the  other  mission 
presidents  were.  And  this  fine  man — 
he  is  still  alive,  and  you  fisherman 
friends  that  I  love  so  much,  he  is  a  great 
fisherman,  and  that  brought  us  closer 
together — would  do  anything  for  us. 

Then,  of  course,  we  had  to  leave  the 
mission.  We  called  local  people  to  take 
charge,  and  they  had  charge  all  during 
the  war.  And  I  want  to  pay  tribute  to 
those  men,  three  of  them  lost  their  lives 
in  the  war.  Brother  Herbert  Kloepher, 
whom  I  put  in  charge,  with  two  very 
wonderful  men,  elderly  men,  to  help 
him,  lost  his  life.  The  Brother  Biel 
that  Brother  Wood  left  in  charge,  lost 
his  life.  But  I  remember  getting  a  letter 
from  him  in  which  he  said,  "Brother 
McKay,  I  am  called  into  service  and 
have  to  leave  in  the  morning.  I  have 
not  time  to  get  your  approval,  but  I 
have  chosen  Brother  Heck,  and  he  says 
that  his  parents  claim  that  you  blessed 
him  as  a  baby,  so  perhaps  he  will  be 
all  right."  And  he  lost  his  life.  Those 
three  presidents  gave  their  lives,  and 
they  were  as  fine  spirits  as  ever  came. 
God  bless  their  memories. 

Then  the  local  brethren  carried  on 
all  during  the  war.  But  they  were  not 
alone;  not  entirely  left  alone.  Again, 


44 

Saturday,  October  3 

music  comes  into  it,  our  choirs.  This 
wonderful  Tabernacle  Choir,  singing  as 
it  has  been  doing  for  lo,  these  many 
years,  the  second  longest,  I  think,  in 
radio,  continued  singing;  and  their  choir 
numbers  were  being  transcribed  by  an- 
other fine  young  man  in  Stuttgart.  He 
had  charge  of  the  radio  system  there, 
Brother  Fred  Taylor,  Jr.  And  those 
Tabernacle  Choir  songs  were  transcribed 
and  went  into  quite  a  large  part  of 
Germany.  Our  members  were  thrilled 
by  them. 

Scores  of  letters  from  appreciative 
friends  in  Europe  were  received  by  the 
choir.  Sister  Mary  Jack,  secretary  of  the 
choir  sent  them  over  to"  my  office.  I 
had  the  honor  of  being  acting  mission 
president  for  the  European  Mission,  and 
we  would  read  them  and  send  them  to 
these  fine  mission  presidents  over  there. 

Well,  God  bless  our  choirs  and  our 
music,  it  is  a  great  help  to  this  great 
missionary  work. 

I  remember,  too,  I  want  to  recom- 
mend not  only  choirs  throughout  the 
Church,  but  also  singing  in  the  home, 
the  parents  singing  together,  husband 
and  wife.  President  Smith  will  pardon 
me  for  this,  I  am  sure;  he  gave  some 
fine  sermons  there  in  visiting  our 
European  Mission,  but  they  will  not 
be  remembered  like  the  duet  that  he 
and  his  sweetheart  sang;  he  would  sit 
down  on  the  bench,  and  she  would  play 
the  accompaniment,  and  they  would 
sing  a  song.  The  members  will  remem- 
ber that.  There  are  members  here  in 
the  choir  who  will  remember  that 
duet. 

I  recommend  that  as  an  example  to 
you  fathers  and  mothers,  you  husbands 
and  wives.    Sit  down  at  the  piano  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

play  together.  Sometimes  the  husband 
has  to  play  with  one  finger,  but  it  is 
all  right;  I  want  to  tell  you  it  does  the 
work  to  that  family. 

And  then  I  remember  visiting  a  stake 
where  a  young  mother  brought  her  three 
children  and  handed  the  baby  to  some- 
body to  take  care  of  while  she  ac- 
companied her  family.  I  do  not  be- 
lieve the  conference  was  ever  so  touched 
as  by  the  beautiful  music  of  that  mother 
accompanying  her  three  daughters.  So 
I  recommend  music  in  the  home. 

God  bless  our  missionary  system.  This 
is  a  great  missionary  Church.  And  God 
bless  the  music  in  this  system.  I  am 
glad  that  Brother  Asper  is  playing  here. 
He  is  one  of  my  German  missionaries, 
by  the  way.  And  speaking  of — I  should 
stop,  I  know;  my  wife  is  worrying;  so 
are  some  others,  I  should  not  speak  so 
long — but  I  recall  receiving  a  letter  on 
my  second  mission  from  Brother  Hansen 
who  was  presiding  over  the  Nuremberg 
District.  He  asked  whether  the  mission 
could  help  buy  an  organ  for  the  branch, 
that  they  had  a  wonderful  little  organist 
there,  and  I  was  delighted  to  help  them. 
That  little  organist  is  our  wonderful, 
one  of  the  greatest  organists  in  the  world 
today,  Brother  Alexander  Schreiner. 
God  help  us  to  have  music  in  our  homes, 
in  our  branches,  in  our  stakes,  and 
music  everywhere.  In  the  words  of  Tiny 
Tim,  "God  bless  us  everyone."  I  ask 
this  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  will  be  our  next 
speaker. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


M 


y  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  It 
is  twenty-two  years  this  month 
since  I  made  the  first  trip  up  those 
steps,  and  it  is  no  easier  today  than  it 
was  then. 


I  stand  before  you  as  your  servant, 
depending  entirely  upon  your  faith  and 
prayers  and  the  Spirit  of  our  heavenly 
Father  to  direct  the  testimony  that  I 
shall  bear  to  you  today.   I  have  a  fer- 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


45 


vent  testimony  and  knowledge  of  the 
truth  of  the  gospel,  for  which  I  am  truly 
thankful.  I  am  thankful  to  be  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  the  organization 
which  has  the  responsibility  of  imple- 
menting in  the  lives  of  its  members, 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  car- 
rying of  a  warning  to  the  world  that 
the  gospel  and  priesthood  have  been 
restored. 

The  advantages  of  membership  in  the 
Church  are  tremendous.  You  know 
them  as  well  as  I.  Time  would  hardly 
permit  that  we  should  enumerate  them, 
but  they  are  tremendous,  and  I  am 
very  grateful  to  be  the  recipient  of  those 
blessings.  One  of  the  greatest  of  them 
is  the  opportunity  for  service.  In  the 
twenty-two  years  that  I  have  occupied 
this  position,  my  purpose  has  been  to 
learn  my  duty  and  gain  the  strength, 
if  I  could,  to  do  it  well,  that  perhaps 
my  service  might  be  helpful  to  someone 
else. 

I  realize  that  in  it  all,  of  course,  I  am 
the  chief  beneficiary,  because  I  develop 
a  love  for  the  people  whom  I  serve, 
and  love  of  one's  fellow,  Christ  said, 
was  the  second  great  principle  of  the 
gospel.  If  I  can  continue  to  do  that, 
and  serve  you  with  that  motive  only, 
I  shall  be  very  happy. 

I  am  glad  that  I  belong  to  a  Church 
which  gives  me  the  opportunity  of  striv- 
ing to  learn  these  things,  to  learn  the 
truth,  which  encourages  me  to  reach 
out  and  search  constantly  for  the  truth, 
and  having  learned  it,  to  attempt  to 
apply  it.  I  am  glad  that  you  and  I  are 
not  circumscribed  in  our  privileges  of 
study  and  research,  for  it  has  been  the 
purpose  of  the  Church,  from  its  incep- 
tion, to  stimulate  education  among  the 
people. 

In  taking  the  tremendous  advantages 
as  I  do  of  membership  in  the  Church, 
I  feel  an  equal  responsibility  towards 
it;  if  I  am  to  benefit  by  it,  I  should  help 
it  meet  its  tremendous  burdens.  They 
are  of  varying  and  different  types,  of 
course,  but  if  I  am  to  take  the  benefit 
of  any  organization,  I  feel  duty-bound  to 


carry  my  portion  of  its  burdens,  if  I 
can.  I  feel  that  loyalty  to  the  Church 
demands  just  that  thing,  and  recently 
in  talking  to  a  conference,  I  suggested 
that,  that  if  we  could  implant  in  the 
hearts  of  our  children  that  type  of 
loyalty,  they  would  have  no  difficulty 
in  subscribing  to  the  program  of  the 
Church  of  which  we  are  all  members. 

I  was  glad  when  President  Clark 
said  this  morning  that  there  are  times 
when  we  must  accept  the  requests  of 
our  heavenly  Father  even  though  we 
may  not  understand  their  purpose  and, 
even  though  at  times  it  be  blind  obedi- 
ence that  we  render,  that  we  should  do 
it,  if  we  expect  to  take  the  benefits  and 
blessings  that  come  from  membership 
in  the  Church. 

When  I  said  that  the  other  day,  it 
was  suggested  that  perhaps  I  was  imply- 
ing that  the  leadership  of  the  Church 
is  infallible,  and  that  the  free  agency 
of  man  is  circumscribed  by  that  doctrine 
and  teaching,  but  I  do  not  believe  that 
either  applies.  I  have  never  been  told 
what  I  should  study.  I  exercise  my 
freedom  in  the  things  that  I  teach, 
trying  always,  of  course,  to  make  them 
conform  to  the  teachings  of  the  Church. 
But  I  feel  that  in  it  I  am  not  particu- 
larly circumscribed  in  my  liberties  and 
in  my  privileges,  and  I  glory  in  the  fact 
that  the  Church  throws  open  to  me  all 
of  the  books  that  have  been  written,  if 
I  care  to  delve  into  them.  I  have  faith 
that  if  I  delve,  seeking  the  Spirit  of 
God  in  my  teaching,  I  will  never  find 
anything  that  will  upset  and  disturb 
my  faith  in  God  and  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel. 

The  blessings  of  membership  in  the 
Church,  brothers  and  sisters,  are  tre- 
mendous. Loyalty  to  it  should  prompt 
you  and  me  to  abide  by  its  teachings. 

When  I  have  occasion  to  set  up  a 
presidency  of  a  seventies  quorum,  I 
teach  the  members  this:  You  are  to 
think  independently,  you  are  to  dis- 
cuss freely,  and  give  expression  to  your 
thoughts  regarding  the  problems  that 
arise  in  your  meetings,  but  if  you  hap- 
pen to  be  on  the  losing  end  of  the 


46 

Saturday,  October  3 

discussion,  and  the  majority  rules  one 
thing  while  you  have  felt  and  argued 
for  another,  then  loyalty  on  your  part 
demands  that  you  not  only  withdraw 
from  opposition,  but  that  you  say, 
brethren,  if  that  is  your  will,  I  will  help 
you.  I  believe  that  is  the  spirit  in 
which  we  ought  to  serve,  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  if  we  could  develop  that 
loyalty  in  our  own  hearts  and  implant 
it  in  the  hearts  of  our  children,  the 
bad  stories  that  we  read  in  the  news- 
papers would  be  fewer  and  fewer,  as 
our  teachings  might  be  absorbed  by 
the  people. 

We  have  no  reason,  whatsoever,  to 
be  ashamed  of  the  Church  or  of  its 
leadership.  Let  us  support  it.  Let  us 
teach  seriously,  for  the  message  we 
have  is  absolutely  essential  to  the  high- 
est exaltation  of  men  in  the  kingdom 
of  God.  Nobody  would  deny  the  fact 
that  any  man  who  strives  to  live  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  shall  benefit  by 
it,  but  adherence  to  the  teachings  in 
their  detail  requires  that  one  repent, 
be  baptized  into  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  be  con- 
firmed a  member  thereof,  and  if  he  be 
a  man,  that  he  receive  the  responsibili- 
ties of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  and 
enjoy  the  benefits  of  such  ordinances  as 
the  temple  extends  to  each  of  us  here 
in  order  that  we  may  attain  to  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

highest  exaltation  and  eventually  to  the 
powers  of  God.  Can  we  develop  that 
loyalty,  brethren  and  sisters,  can  we 
sustain  the  program  of  the  Church  to 
that  extent;  until  I  can,  I  shall  feel 
unworthy  to  partake  of  the  high  bless- 
ings that  the  Church  offers  me. 

God  bless  you  all  in  your  ministry; 
service  to  your  fellows  is  your  greatest 
privilege;  to  serve  you  is  my  greatest 
privilege,  and  I  would  like  to  live  as 
long  as  I  can  do  it  well  and  then  make 
way  for  somebody  who  can  take  it  up, 
because  it  must  go  on,  until  the  con- 
summation of  the  purposes  of  God. 

Again,  may  he  bless  you  all,  I  pray  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Will  the  congregation,  and  so  far  as 
convenient,  the  listening  audience,  now 
join  with  the  choir  in  singing,  "How 
Firm  a  Foundation."  Brother  Spencer 
Cornwall  will  conduct. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn,  "How  Firm  A  Foundation." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter,  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  will  now  speak  to 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Oscar 
A.  Kirkham. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  brethren  and  sisters:  Today, 
with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  I  would 
like  to  reason  directly  with  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  because  they  have 
taken  upon  themselves  the  name  of 
Christ  and  have  entered  into  a  covenant 
to  keep  all  of  his  commandments.  Ac- 
cording to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  they 
belong  to  "  .  .  .  the  only  true  and  living 
church  upon  the  face  of  the  whole 
earth.  ..."  (D.  &  C.  1:30.)  This 
Church  has  within  it  the  power  of  the 
priesthood  with  all  the  ordinances  of 


the  gospel  and  doctrines  necessary  to 
bring  its  members  back  into  the  pres- 
ence of  God  and  give  them  exaltation. 
Members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  are  heirs  not  only 
to  the  celestial  glory  but  also  to  exalta- 
tion or  eternal  life  in  that  glory;  and 
that  heirship  shall  be  obtained  if  they 
keep  all  the  commandments  given  by 
Jesus  Christ  to  members  of  his  kingdom. 
Thus,  the  words  of  Paul  apply  very 
aptly  to  the  Latter-day  Saints: 

Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither 
have  entered  into  the  heart  of  man,  the 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


47 


things  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them 
that  love  him.  (1  Cor.  2:9.) 

Certainly  all  the  things  that  this 
world  could  offer  would  not  be  com- 
parable if  attained  to  the  receiving  of 
eternal  life  which  God  promises  to  mem- 
bers of  his  kingdom;  for  he  has  de- 
clared that  "...  eternal  life  ...  is  the 
greatest  of  all  the  gifts  of  God."  (D.  &  C. 
14:7.) 

On  a  certain  occasion,  the  Savior 
said: 

For  what  is  a  man  profited,  if  he  shall 
gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his  own 
soul?  or  what  shall  a  man  give  in  exchange 
for  his  soul?"  (Matt.  16:26.) 

In  answering  those  questions  for  the 
members  of  the  Church,  I  would  say, 
there  is  nothing  that  this  world  offers 
which  would  be  equal  to  the  eternal 
exaltation  which  God  promises  those 
who  love  him;  nor  is  there  anything  in 
this  world  which  we  would  give  for 
our  souls. 

Yet  I  do  recognize  the  fact,  also,  that 
there  are  many  temptations  in  mortality 
which  we  have,  and  some  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  as  a  result  of  these  tempta- 
tions, fall  into  sin  and  thereby  exchange 
their  souls  for  the  things  of  this  world; 
for  example,  the  desire  to  attain  wealth, 
position,  or  power,  accompanied  by 
greed,  selfishness,  covetousness,  and 
other  earthly  contaminations,  cause 
some  Latter-day  Saints  to  lose  their 
souls.  The  Savior  has  warned  against 
covetousness;  he  said: 

Take  heed,  and  beware  of  covetousness: 
for  a  man's  life  consisteth  not  in  the 
abundance  of  the  things  which  he  pos- 
sesseth. 

And  he  spake  a  parable  unto  them,  say- 
ing, The  ground  of  a  certain  rich  man 
brought  forth  plentifully: 

And  he  thought  within  himself,  saying, 
What  shall  I  do,  because  I  have  no  room 
where  to  bestow  my  fruits? 

And  he  said,  This  will  I  do:  I  will  pull 
down  my  barns,  and  build  greater;  and 
there  will  I  bestow  all  my  fruits  and  my 
goods. 

And  I  will  say  to  my  soul,  Soul,  thou  hast 


much  goods  laid  up  for  many  years;  take 
thine  ease,  eat,  drink,  and  be  merry. 

But  God  said  unto  him,  Thou  fool,  this 
night  thy  soul  shall  be  required  of  thee: 
then  whose  shall  those  things  be,  which 
thou  hast  provided? 

So  is  he  that  layeth  up  treasure  for  him- 
self, and  is  not  rich  toward  God.  (Luke 
12:15-21.) 

And,  we  could  say,  so  shall  it  be  with 
the  Saints  in  our  day  who  love  gold 
more  than  they  love  God. 

We  are  all  very  familiar  with  the  in- 
cident recorded  in  the  New  Testament 
wherein  the  rich  young  ruler  came  to 
the  Master  and  asked  what  he  must  do 
to  gain  eternal  life.  After  the  Savior 
had  listed  many  of  the  commandments 
to  him,  the  young  ruler  said,  "All  these 
things  have  I  kept  from  my  youth  up." 
And  then  the  Savior,  knowing  of  his 
weakness,  said,  "If  thou  wilt  be  perfect, 
go  and  sell  that  thou  hast,  and  give  to 
the  poor,  and  thou  shalt  have  treasure 
in  heaven:  and  come  and  follow  me." 
(See  Matt.  19:20-21.)  And  the  rich 
young  man  went  away  sorrowing,  be- 
cause he  had  much  goods.  He  was  not 
willing  to  exchange  his  earthly  goods 
for  his  eternal  soul;  neither  was  he 
willing  to  follow  the  Savior's  admoni- 
tion wherein  he  said: 

Lay  not  up  for  yourselves  treasures  upon 
earth,  where  moth  and  rust  doth  corrupt, 
and  where  thieves  break  through  and  steal: 

But  lay  up  for  yourselves  treasures  in 
heaven,  where  neither  moth  nor  rust  doth 
corrupt,  and  where  thieves  do  not  break 
through  nor  steal: 

For  where  your  treasure  is,  there  will 
your  heart  be  also.  (Matt.  6:19-21.) 

I  do  not  believe  that  the  Savior  ob- 
jects to  Latter-day  Saints  becoming 
wealthy,  if  they  use  that  wealth  as  they 
should.  God  wants  his  children  to 
have  the  good  things  of  the  world,  if 
we  use  that  wealth  to  pay  our  tithing, 
and  fast  offerings,  to  send  out  mission- 
aries, to  build  church  houses,  and  to 
help  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God  here 
upon  this  earth  in  every  way;  but  he 
warned  against  the  evil  effects  that 
wealth  might  have  on  members  of  his 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

Church.  Those  who  use  their  wealth 
for  the  building  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
are  following  the  Savior's  admonition  to 

.  .  .  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God, 
and  his  righteousness;  and  all  these  things 
shall  be  added  unto  you.  (Ibid.,  6:33.) 

Throughout  various  dispensations  of 
the  gospel,  the  Lord  has  placed  it 
upon  those  who  have  wealth  to  "re- 
member the  poor."  In  the  latter  days 
he  gave  definite  commandments  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  in 
this  respect;  and  he  gave  these  com- 
mandments in  strong  terminology.  Let 
me  quote  from  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants: 

Wo  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not 
give  your  substance  to  the  poor,  for  your 
riches  will  canker  your  souls;  and  this 
shall  be  your  lamentation  in  the  day  of 
visitation  and  of  judgment,  and  of  indig- 
nation: The  harvest  is  past,  the  summer  is 
ended,  and  my  soul  is  not  saved  I  (D.  &  C. 
56:16.) 

On  another  occasion,  the  Savior  re- 
vealed in  modern  days: 

Therefore,  if  any  man  shall  take  of  the 
abundance  which  I  have  made,  and  im- 
part not  his  portion,  according  to  the  law 
of  my  gospel,  unto  the  poor  and  the  needy, 
he  shall,  with  the  wicked,  lift  up  his  eyes 
in  hell,  being  in  torment.  (Ibid.,  104:18.) 

Now,  what  is  meant  by  the  law  of  his 
gospel?  The  law  of  his  gospel,  in 
this  respect,  no  doubt,  is  fast  offerings, 
the  Church  welfare  contributions, 
probably  tithing,  and  the  other  contri- 
butions that  God  has  provided  in  his 
Church  to  take  care  of  the  needy  and 
the  poor,  and  to  build  up  his  kingdom 
here  upon  this  earth.  No  Latter-day 
Saint  who  refuses  to  contribute  his  share 
in  carrying  forward  the  work  of  the 
Lord  will  be  found  guiltless  at  the  judg- 
ment day. 

Now,  what  shall  the  Latter-day  Saint 
give  in  exchange  for  his  soul?  The 
Lord  has  given  to  us  the  Sabbath  day 
law.  In  latter  days  he  commanded: 

And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep 
thyself  unspotted  from   the  world,  thou 


Second  Day 

shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer 
up  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy  day. 
(Ibid.,  59:9.) 

And  yet  on  the  Sabbath  day  there  are 
many  Latter-day  Saints  who  go  to  pic- 
ture shows,  who  go  to  ball  games,  who 
go  car  riding,  who  work  on  their  lots, 
and  in  these  and  numerous  other  ways 
contaminate  themselves  with  the  sins 
of  the  world,  and  thereby  exchange  their 
souls  for  improper  Sabbath  day  ob- 
servance and  its  accompanying  vices. 

The  Lord  has  given  a  great  law  for 
the  physical  and  spiritual  health  of 
his  children,  known  as  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  Paul,  the  ancient  Apostle,  de- 
clared: 

Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple  of 
God,  and  that  the  Spirit  of  God  dwelleth 
in  you? 

If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God, 
him  shall  God  destroy;  for  the  temple  of 
God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are.  (1  Cor. 
3:16-17.) 

Thus,  as  Paul  proclaimed,  our  bodies 
are  temples  of  God,  given  to  us  that  we 
might  keep  them  clean,  pure,  and  un- 
contaminated  in  all  respects,  that  some 
day  we  might  come  back  with  our 
bodies  into  the  presence  of  our  eternal 
Maker  and  have  them  purified  and  ex- 
alted. So  the  things  that  we  do  that 
will  contaminate  our  bodies  certainly 
work  against  the  saving  of  our  souls. 
Would  any  women  who  belong  to  the 
true  Church  be  foolish  enough  to  drink 
tea  and  thereby  contaminate  their 
bodies?  Would  others  among  us  drink 
coffee,  use  liquor  or  tobacco,  and  there- 
by exchange  the  gratifying  of  these 
physical  appetites  for  our  eternal  souls? 
Foolish,  indeed,  would  be  such  people, 
to  say  the  least. 

The  Lord  also  gave  the  great  law  of 
chastity  in  ancient  times,  saying,  "Thou 
shalt  not  commit  adultery."  (Ex.  20:14.) 
Speaking  of  sex  immorality,  Alma  said 
to  his  son: 

Know  ye  not,  my  son,  that  these  things 
are  an  abomination  in  the  sight  of  the 
Lord;  yea,  most  abominable  above  all  sins 
save  it  be  the  shedding  of  innocent  blood 
or  denying  the  Holy  Ghost?  (Alma  39:5.) 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


49 


In  modern  revelation,  the  Lord  has 
reaffirmed  the  commandment:  "Thou 
shalt  not  commit  adultery."  (See  D.  &  C. 
42:24;  59:6.)  We  read  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  also: 

And  verily  I  say  unto  you,  as  I  have  said 
before,  he  that  looketh  on  a  woman  to  lust 
after  her,  or  if  any  shall  commit  adultery 
in  their  hearts,  they  shall  not  have  the 
Spirit,  but  shall  deny  the  faith  and  shall 
fear. 

Wherefore,  I,  the  Lord,  have  said  that 
the  fearful,  and  the  unbelieving,  and  all 
liars,  and  whosoever  loveth  and  maketh 
a  lie,  and  the  whoremonger,  and  the 
sorcerer,  shall  have  their  part  in  that  lake 
which  burnetii  with  fire  and  brimstone, 
which  is  the  second  death. 

Verily  I  say,  that  they  shall  not  have 
part  in  the  first  resurrection.  (Ibid.,  63:16- 
18.) 

With  such  doctrine  revealed  by  the 
Lord  directly  to  us,  we  know,  as  Latter- 
day  Saints,  that  if  we  commit  adultery 
and  if  we  continue  to  satisfy  the  lusts 
of  the  flesh,  so  to  speak,  by  living  that 
kind  of  life,  we  shall  be  thrust  down 
to  hell.  Thus,  we  thereby  sell  our 
souls  for  the  gratification  of  the  lust  of 
the  flesh.  Let  me  ask  you,  is  sex  im- 
morality worth  such  an  exorbitant 
price? 

The  Lord  has  also  given  the  great 
law  of  celestial  marriage,  which  is 
the  crowning  gospel  principle,  giving 
the  promise  that  those  who  abide  by 
that  law  and  keep  the  other  command- 
ments shall  rise  in  the  resurrection  and 
receive  exaltation  or  eternal  life  which 
he  declares  is  the  greatest  gift  that  he 
has  in  store  for  man. 

Even  after  receiving  such  a  glorious 
promise,  there  are  many  Latter-day 
Saints  who  refuse  to  abide  by  the  law 
of  celestial  marriage,  refusing  to  go  to 
the  temple  and  enter  into  God's  holy 
covenant.  And  why  do  they  refuse? 
For  various  reasons. 

Would  there  be  some  members  of 
the  Church  foolish  enough  to  refuse 
to  go  to  the  temple  because  they  did 
not  want  to  wear  garments  for  the 


short  space  of  life  in  mortality?  If 
there  are  members  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  so  unwise,  certainly  we  would  say, 
such  a  choice  would  be  a  very  foolish 
one,  indeed.  Or  would  there  be  some 
among  us  who  would  refuse  to  pay 
tithing  and  fast  offerings  to  the  Lord, 
who  would  disregard  God's  law  of 
health  by  breaking  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, who  would  defile  their  bodies  by 
not  observing  the  law  of  chastity,  or 
break  God's  other  commandments  and 
thereby  cut  themselves  off  from  the  bless- 
ings of  the  priesthood,  from  the  bless- 
ings of  the  temple,  and  ultimately  from 
exaltation?  The  truth  remains  that 
there  are  such  unwise  people  who  hold 
membership  in  the  Church.  At  the 
coming  of  the  Lord,  if  they  fail  to 
repent,  they  shall  be  counted  among 
the  "foolish  virgins."  (See  Ibid.,  63:54; 
45:56.) 

"For  what  is  a  man  profited,  if  he  shall 
gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his  own 
soul?  or  what  shall  a  man  give  in  ex- 
change for  his  soul?"  (Matt.  16:26. 
Italics  added.) 

Certainly,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  we 
would  have  no  profit  if  we  should  gain 
the  whole  world  and  lose  our  souls. 
There  is  nothing  that  this  world  can 
offer  that  we  would  exchange  for  eternal 
life. 

May  God  bless  us  as  children  of  the 
covenant — members  of  his  Church  and 
kingdom — that  we  will  keep  the  com- 
mandments, that  we  will  walk  in  the 
pathway  that  our  Savior  has  pointed  out 
for  us  to  follow  back  to  the  presence 
of  our  eternal  Father,  that  we  may 
someday  attain  an  eternal  and  blessed 
exaltation,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  has  just  con- 
cluded speaking.  Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirk- 
ham,  also  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
will  be  our  next  speaker,  and  our  con- 
cluding speaker  this  morning,  will  be 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball. 


50 

Saturday,  October  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Second  Dan 


I pray  that  the  Lord  may  be  with  me 
and  bless  me  and  that  you  will  in- 
cline your  hearts  toward  me  and  lend 
that  sympathetic  understanding  in  this 
moment  of  real  effort  on  my  part. 

There  is  a  matter  I  wish  to  present 
on  behalf  of  our  President,  President 
McKay,  and  brothers  and  sisters  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  As  a  National  Council  member 
at  large  of  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America, 
I  am  pleased  to  say  that  President 
David  O.  McKay  received  last  summer 
the  highest  honor  award  which  can  be 
given  by  that  organization  to  its 
leaders — the  Silver  Buffalo. 

Scouting  membership  has  reached  over 
three  million  in  the  United  States  of 
America,  making  a  total  of  five  and 
a  half  million  members  in  the  world. 
Among  the  persons  receiving  this  honor 
of  the  Silver  Buffalo  award  are  some 
of  America's  most  distinguished  leaders 
in  business,  education,  art,  and  religion. 
"In  the  service  of  youth"  reads  the 
citation. 

We  in  scouting  in  the  Latter-day  Saint 
Church  feel  highly  honored  to  have  this 
distinguished  recognition  come  to  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay.  May  the  Lord 
bless  his  kindly  words,  his  noble  ex- 
ample, and  the  power  and  strength  of 
his  message  that  he  has  placed  in  the 
hearts  of  men  in  this  glorious  move- 
ment. 

There  are  two  great  trails  for  a  boy: 
from  deacon  to  high  priest;  from  Tender- 
foot to  Eagle  Scout.  I  humbly  pray  in 
my  heart  that  every  boy — your  boy,  my 
boy,  your  neighbor's  boy — all  boys  in 
this  good  land,  may  have  the  high  privi- 
lege, through  your  encouragement  and 
mine  and  all  good  men  to  devote  their 
energy  to  following  these  two  great 
trails  that  they  may  bless  and  glorify 
their  lives. 

As  youth  goes,  so  will  civilization  go. 
Thus  we  must  safeguard  their  future 
with  noble  example  on  the  part  of 
worthy  parents  and  leadership,  with 


devoted  personal  attention;  then  our 
civilization  will  continue  to  progress. 

Some  time  ago,  a  man  on  the  high- 
way halted,  impressed  by  the  rolling 
hills.  In  the  midst  of  these  hills  he 
saw  a  beautiful  straight  furrow.  He 
stopped  by  the  fence,  expecting  to  see 
an  old,  experienced  farmer  coming  to- 
ward the  end  of  the  furrow,  but  instead 
he  saw  a  youth.  Immediately  he  said 
to  the  young  chap,  "Did  you  plow  the 
first  furrow  in  this  field?" 

"Yes,  sir." 

"You  will  do  many  straight  things  in 
life."   And  on  his  way  he  went. 

Twelve  years  went  by.  The  man 
came  again.  He  was  met  by  a  lovely 
limousine  at  the  station.  "We  have  a 
fine  hotel  in  the  city,"  he  was  told, 
"but  I  am  taking  the  privilege  of  in- 
viting you  to  my  home.  Will  you 
kindly  come?" 

"Yes,  I  will  be  pleased.  I  am  tired 
of  hotels,"  the  gentleman  replied. 

That  night  before  a  large  auditorium 
and  before  this  man  arose  to  address 
the  audience,  the  man  who  had  been 
entertaining  him  said,  "I  am  the  mayor 
of  this  city.  Do  you  remember  twelve 
years  ago  seeing  a  boy  plow  a  straight 
furrow  in  an  open  field?  That  was  I. 
Please  do  not  say  anything  about  it  to 
this  audience,  but  I  shall  be  everlastingly 
grateful  to  you." 

Oh,  may  the  Lord  keep  deep  down  in 
our  hearts  the  fine  teaching  of  our 
religion,  our  devotion  to  our  work,  to 
do  our  utmost  to  guide  youth  to  its 
destiny. 

How  I  would  love  to  be  a  boy  again  1 
God  bless  my  boys  and  your  boys. 
Not  long  ago,  from  a  cabin  home,  a 
humble  home,  a  telegram  was  sent  to  a 
son  in  a  distant  city,  "Come  home, 
Charles.  I  am  not  well."  Signed, 
"Mother."  And  when  the  son  arrived 
by  plane,  his  mother  said,  "There  are 
two  gifts  I  want  to  give  you,  Charles. 
I  have  been  thinking  about  them  all 
day.    Each  day,  on  your  knees  and 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


51 


alone,  say  a  prayer.  And  the  second 
gift  I  would  love  to  give  you,  is  each 
day  walk  with  good  men.  These  are 
my  gifts,  Charles.  Each  day,  pray  alone 
on  bended  knee,  and  each  day  walk 
with  good  men." 

God  bless  that  boy  who  today  is  one 
of  America's  great  Christian  leaders, 
president  of  a  bank  of  thirty  million, 
head  of  one  of  the  largest  organizations 
in  our  land,  a  real  Christian  gentleman. 

This  is  the  touch  that  must  be  given. 
Halt,  now;  you  can  help  a  boy.  It  may 
be  the  army  that  he  may  face  tomorrow, 
but  today  it  is  only  a  boy  who  needs 
a  kindly  word.  These  are  precious  mo- 
ments. These  are  great  days  in  the  life 
of  a  boy. 

And  may  I  say,  finally,  I  am  humbly 
grateful.  I  wish  my  words  may  be 
from  my  lips  to  your  hearts.    In  grati- 


tude I  thank  God  for  a  fourteen-year-old 
boy,  who  read  the  sacred  word,  who 
meditated,  who  prayed,  unafraid,  alone, 
and  the  Lord  heard  his  prayer. 

God  bless  us  that  your  boy  and  my 
boy  and  the  neighbor's  boy  may  grow 
in  the  path  of  the  Prophet,  Seer,  and 
Revelator.  That  is  who  the  boy  of 
fourteen  was.  These  are  our  oppor- 
tunities. These  are  our  glorious  privi- 
leges. God  help  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  has  just  addressed 
us.  Our  concluding  speaker  for  this 
morning's  session,  will  be  Elder  Spencer 
W.  Kimball,  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters:  My 
heart  is  filled  with  gratitude  this 
morning  for  this  occasion,  for  you, 
for  the  gospel,  the  Church,  the  priest- 
hood, my  family,  and  for  all  the  privi- 
leges that  have  come  to  me. 

Recently,  as  I  held  a  meeting  with  a 
group  of  members  of  bishoprics,  I  had 
occasion  to  read  to  them  that  scripture 
of  Paul's,  given  to  Timothy,  in  which 
he  said: 

A  bishop  then  must  be  blameless,  the 
husband  of  one  wife,  vigilant,  sober,  of 
good  behaviour,  given  to  hospitality,  apt  to 
teach; 

Not  given  to  wine,  no  striker,  not  greedy 
of  filthy  lucre.  ...  (I  Tim.  3:2-3.) 

My  mind  began  to  explore  and  I 
wondered:  "What  is  filthy  lucre?"  I 
read  a  little  farther  and  found  that  he 
said  the  same  of  the  deacons,  that  they 
should  not  be  "greedy  of  filthy  lucre." 

I  found  also  that  Paul  spoke  to  Titus, 
his  son  in  the  faith: 

For  a  bishop  must  be  blameless,  as  the 
steward  of  God  .  .  .  not  given  to  filthy 
lucre.  (Titus  1:7.) 


Peter  also  gave  the  same  instructions 
to  the  elders,  making  the  warning  quite 
universal  to  tbe  Church: 

The  elders  which  are  among  you  I  ex- 
hort, .  .  . 

Feed  the  flock  of  God  which  is  among 
you,  taking  the  oversight  thereof,  not  by 
constraint,  but  willingly;  not  for  filthy 
lucre,  but  of  a  ready  mind.  (I  Peter  5:1-2.) 

I  wondered  about  the  term.  I  went 
to  the  dictionary  to  see  just  what  Web- 
ster would  say,  and  found  that  lucre, 
itself,  has  a  bad  connotation,  and  filthy 
lucre  is  worse;  and  to  be  "greedy  of 
filthy  lucre"  is,  of  course,  still  worse. 

This  instruction  was  given  by  John, 
the  Revelator,  to  the  Laodicean  Saints: 

I  know  thy  works,  that  thou  art  neither 
cold  nor  hot;  I  would  thou  wert  cold  or  hot. 

So  then  because  thou  art  lukewarm,  and 
neither  cold  nor  hot,  I  will  spue  thee  out 
of  my  mouth. 

Because  thou  sayest,  I  am  rich,  and  in- 
creased with  goods,  and  have  need  of 
nothing;  and  knowest  not  that  thou  art 
wretched,  and  miserable,  and  poor,  and 
blind,  and  naked: 


52 

Saturday,  October  3 

I  counsel  thee  to  buy  of  me  gold  tried  in 
the  fire,  that  thou  mayest  be  rich;  and 
white  raiment,  that  thou  mayest  be  clothed, 
and  that  the  shame  of  thy  nakedness  do 
not  appear;  and  anoint  thine  eyes  with 
eyesalve,  that  thou  mayest  see. 

As  many  as  I  love,  I  rebuke  and  chasten: 
be  zealous  therefore,  and  repent.  (Rev. 
3:15-19.) 

And  I  began  to  think  of  many  of  our 
people  whose  minds  are  upon  their 
wealth;  who  are  increased  with  goods; 
who  though  clothed  elegantly  are  naked 
and  not  in  white  raiment;  who  with 
eyes  wide  open  see  not;  who  are  "greedy 
for  filthy  lucre." 

Now,  all  money  is  not  lucre — all 
money  is  not  filthy.  There  is  clean 
money — clean  money  with  which  to  buy 
food,  clothes,  shelter,  and  other  neces- 
sities and  with  which  to  make  contribu- 
tions toward  the  building  of  the  king- 
dom of  God. 

Clean  money  is  that  compensation 
received  for  a  full  day's  honest  work. 
It  is  that  reasonable  pay  for  faithful 
service.  It  is  that  fair  profit  from  the 
sale  of  goods,  commodities,  or  service. 
It  is  that  income  received  from  trans- 
actions where  all  parties  profit. 

Filthy  lucre  is  blood  money;  that 
which  is  obtained  through  theft  and 
robbery.  It  is  that  obtained  through 
gambling  or  the  operation  of  gambling 
establishments.  Filthy  lucre  is  that  had 
through  sin  or  sinful  operations  and 
that  which  comes  from  the  handling  of 
liquor,  beer,  narcotics  and  those  other 
many  things  which  are  displeasing  in 
the  sight  of  the  Lord.  Filthy  lucre  is 
that  money  which  comes  from  bribery, 
and  from  exploitation. 

Compromise  money  is  filthy,  graft 
money  is  unclean,  profits  and  commis- 
sions derived  from  the  sale  of  worthless 
stocks  are  contaminated  as  is  the  money 
derived  from  other  deceptions,  excessive 
charges,  oppression  to  the  poor  and  com- 
pensation which  is  not  fully  earned.  I 
feel  strongly  that  men  who  accept 
wages  or  salary  and  do  not  give  com- 
mensurate time,  energy,  devotion,  and 
service  are  receiving  money  that  is  not 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


'Second  Day 

clean.  Certainly  those  who  deal  in  the 
forbidden  are  recipients  of  filthy  lucre. 

Thou  shalt  not  bring  the  hire  of  a  whore, 
or  the  price  of  a  dog,  into  the  house  of  the 
Lord  thy  God  for  any  vow:  for  even  both 
these  are  abomination  unto  the  Lord  thy 
God.  (Deut.  23:18.) 

And  Micah  lashed  at  this  sin.  He 
said: 

.  .  .  What  is  the  transgression  of  Jacob? 
is  it  not  Samaria?  and  what  are  the  high 
places  of  Judah?  are  they  not  Jerusalem? 

Therefore  I  will  make  Samaria  as  an 
heap  of  the  field,  and  as  plantings  of  a 
vineyard:  .  .  . 

And  all  the  graven  images  thereof  shall 
be  beaten  to  pieces,  and  all  the  hires 
thereof  shall  be  burned  with  the  fire,  and 
all  the  idols  thereof  will  I  lay  desolate: 
for  she  gathered  it  of  the  hire  of  an  harlot, 
and  they  shall  return  to  the  hire  of  an 
harlot. 

For  her  wound  is  incurable.  .  .  .  (Micah 
1:5-7,  9.) 

I  am  sure  that  money  is  unclean  when 
it  is  obtained  through  oppression,  fraud, 
bribery,  or  through  misrepresentations. 
You  will  remember  the  story  of  the 
Prophet  Samuel: 

...  he  made  his  sons  judges  over  Israel. 

And  his  sons  walked  not  in  his  ways,  but 
turned  aside  after  lucre,  and  took  bribes, 
and  perverted  judgment.  (I  Samuel  8:1,  3.) 

And  Samuel  said  unto  all  Israel,  Behold,  I 
have  hearkened  unto  your  voice  in  all  that 
ye  said  unto  me,  and  have  made  a  king 
over  you. 

And  now,  behold,  the  king  walketh  be- 
fore you:  and  I  am  old  and  grayheaded; 
and,  behold,  my  sons  are  with  you:  and  I 
have  walked  before  you  from  my  childhood 
unto  this  day. 

Behold,  here  I  am:  witness  against  me 
before  the  Lord,  and  before  his  anointed: 
whose  ox  have  I  taken?  or  whose  ass  have 
I  taken?  or  whom  have  I  defrauded?  whom 
have  I  oppressed?  or  of  whose  hand  have 
I  received  any  bribe  to  blind  mine  eyes 
therewith?  and  I  will  restore  it  you. 

And  they  said,  Thou  hast  not  defrauded 
us,  nor  oppressed  us,  neither  hast  thou 
taken  ought  of  any  man's  hand.  (Ibid., 
12:1-4.)  • 

In  Isaiah's  day,  there  were  those  who 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


53 


accepted  gifts  as  bribes  and  who  brought 
forth  the  prophet's  comments: 

He  that  walketh  righteously,  and  speak- 
eth  uprightly;  he  that  despiseth  the  gain 
of  oppressions,  that  shaketh  his  hands 
from  holding  of  bribes,  that  stoppeth  his 
ears  from  hearing  of  blood,  and  shutteth 
his  eyes  from  seeing  evil; 

He  shall  dwell  on  high:  his  place  of 
defence  shall  be  the  munitions  of  rocks: 
bread  shall  be  given  him;  his  waters  shall 
be  sure.    (Isaiah  33:15-16.) 

Woe  unto  them  that  are  mighty  to  drink 
wine,  and  men  of  strength  to  mingle  strong 
drink: 

Which  justify  the  wicked  for  reward,  .  .  . 

Therefore  as  the  fire  devoureth  the  stub- 
ble, and  the  flame  consumeth  the  chaff, 
so  their  root  shall  be  as  rottenness,  and 
their  blossom  shall  go  up  as  dust:  .  .  . 
(Ibid.,  5:22-24.) 

In  Exodus  again  we  read  of  gifts  of 
bribery: 

And  thou  shaft  take  no  gift:  for  the  gift 
blindeth  the  wise,  and  perverteth  the  words 
of  the  righteous.  (Exodus  23:8.) 

In  Matthew,  the  Master  denounced  un- 
clean gifts  which  come  from  impure 
and  unforgiving  hearts: 

But  I  say  unto  you,  That  whosoever  is 
angry  with  his  brother  without  a  cause 
shall  be  in  danger  of  the  judgment:  and 
whosoever  shall  say  to  his  brother,  Raca, 
shall  be  in  danger  of  the  council:  but 
whosoever  shall  say,  Thou  fool,  shall  be  in 
danger  of  hell  fire. 

Therefore  if  thou  bring  thy  gift  to  the 
altar,  and  there  rememberest  that  thy 
brother  hath  ought  against  thee; 

Leave  there  thy  gift  before  the  altar, 
and  go  thy  way;  first  be  reconciled  to  thy 
brother,  and  then  come  and  offer  thy 
gift.  (Matt.  5:22-24.) 

The  gift  is  acceptable  when  it  is  made 
clean  and  uncontaminated. 

Fair  dealing  in  business  matters,  in 
selling,  in  buying,  and  in  general 
representations  is  spoken  of  frequently 
in  the  scriptures.  The  warning  to 
Israel  is  still  applicable  in  our  own  day: 

And  if  thou  sell  ought  unto  thy  neigh- 
bour, or  buyest  ought  of  thy  neighbour's 
hand,  ye  shall  not  oppress  one  another: 


.  .  .  but  thou  shalt  fear  thy  God:  for  I  am 
the  Lord  your  God.  (Lev.  25:14,  17.) 

And  in  the  Proverbs  we  read: 

He  that  oppresseth  the  poor  to  increase 
his  riches,  and  he  that  giveth  to  the  rich, 
shall  surely  come  to  want.  (Prov.  22:16.) 

Much  is  said  about  the  hirer  and  the 
hired  in  the  scriptures,  and  about  the 
employer  and  the  employee: 

Go  to  now,  ye  rich  men,  weep  and  howl 
for  your  miseries  that  shall  come  upon 
you. 

Your  riches  are  corrupted,  and  your 
garments  are  motheaten. 

Your  gold  and  silver  is  cankered;  and 
the  rust  of  them  shall  be  a  witness  against 
you,  and  shall  eat  your  flesh  as  it  were 
fire.  Ye  have  heaped  treasure  together 
for  the  last  days. 

Behold,  the  hire  of  the  labourers  who 
have  reaped  down  your  fields,  which  is  of 
you  kept  back  by  fraud,  crieth:  and  the 
cries  of  them  which  have  reaped  are  entered 
into  the  ears  of  the  Lord  of  sabaoth.  (James 
5:1-4.) 

.  .  .  and  I  will  be  a  swift  witness  against 
the  sorcerers,  and  against  the  adulterers,  and 
against  false  swearers,  and  against  those 
that  oppress  the  hireling  in  his  wages, 
the  widow,  and  the  fatherless,  and  that 
turn  aside  the  stranger  from  his  right,  and 
fear  not  me,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts. 
(Malachi  3:5.) 

Woe  unto  them  that  call  evil  good,  and 
good  evil;  that  put  darkness  for  light,  and 
light  for  darkness;  that  put  bitter  for  sweet, 
and  sweet  for  bitter; 

Woe  unto  them  that  are  wise  in  their 
own  eyes,  and  prudent  in  their  own  sight! 
(Isaiah  5:20-21.) 

Again: 

Thou  shalt  not  oppress  an  hired  servant 
that  is  poor  and  needy,  whether  he  be  of 
thy  brethren,  or  of  thy  strangers  that  are 
in  thy  land  within  thy  gates: 

At  his  day  thou  shalt  give  him  his  hire, 
neither  shall  the  sun  go  down  upon  it;  for 
he  is  poor,  and  setteth  his  heart  upon  it.  .  .  . 
(Deut.  24:14-15.) 

And  to  me  that  means,  woe  unto  them 
who  will  rationalize,  who  will  explain 
away  their  errors  in  these  matters,  who 
justify  their  oppressions.    Farm  hands, 


54  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  3 

domestic  help,  and  unprotected  people 
are  often  oppressed,  when  economic 
circumstances  place  them  in  the  posi- 
tion where  they  must  accept  what  is 
offered  or  remain  unemployed.  And  we 
sometimes  justify  ourselves  in  under- 
paying and  even  boast  about  it: 

Woe  to  them  that  devise  iniquity,  and 
work  evil  upon  their  beds!  when  the  morn- 
ing is  light,  they  practise  it,  because  it  is 
in  the  power  of  their  hand. 

And  they  covet  fields,  and  take  them  by 
violence;  and  houses,  and  take  them  away: 
so  they  oppress  a  man  and  his  house,  even 
a  man  and  his  heritage.  (Micah  2:1-2.) 

And  then  there  are  those  of  us 
who  require  excessive  compensation  for 
services  and  who  fail  to  give  "value 
received"  and  who  give  no  loyalty  with 
their  insufficient  and  inefficient  serv- 
ice. 

Scripture  writers  admonish  the  em- 
ployed to  obey  masters,  to  please  their 
employers,  to  work  with  singleness  of 
heart,  to  be  honest  in  time  spent  and 
service  rendered  and  to  avoid  purloin- 
ing. 

The  Lord  knows  that  we  need  food, 
clothes,  shelter,  and  other  things.  He 
expects  us  to  earn  our  living.  He  com- 
mands us  to  give  the  necessities  to  our 
families.  He  permits,  perhaps,  that  we 
may  have  reasonable  luxuries,  but  not 
with  unclean  money. 

The  Savior  said, 

No  man  can  serve  two  masters:  for  either 
he  will  hate  the  one,  and  love  the  other; 
or  else  he  will  hold  to  the  one,  and  despise 
the  other.  Ye  cannot  serve  God  and  mam- 
mon. (Matt.  6:24.) 

And  as  we  look  about,  we  see  many 
who  are  greedy  for  excessive  wealth, 
and  especially  that  which  comes  with 
sharp  practices  and  at  the  expense  of 
strict  honesty  and  complete  integrity. 
It  is  hard  to  satisfy  us.  The  more  we 
have,  the  more  we  want. 

Paul  seemed  to  understand  human 
nature  and  fully  endorsed  the  statement 
of  the  Master:  "...  a  rich  man  shall 
hardly  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
heaven."  (See  Matt.  19:24.)  He  says: 


Second  Day 

For  we  brought  nothing  into  this  world, 
and  it  is  certain  we  can  carry  nothing 
out. 

And  having  food  and  raiment  let  us  be 
therewith  content. 

But  they  that  will  be  rich  fall  into 
temptation  and  a  snare,  and  into  many 
foolish  and  hurtful  lusts,  which  drown  men 
in  destruction  and  perdition. 

For  the  love  of  money  is  the  root  of  all 
evil:  which  while  some  coveted  after,  they 
have  erred  from  the  faith,  and  pierced 
themselves  through  with  many  sorrows.  (I 
Tim.  6:7-10.) 

"Having  food  and  raiment  let  us  be 
therewith  content." — Why  another  farm, 
another  herd  of  sheep,  another  bunch 
of  cattle,  another  ranch?  Why  another 
hotel,  another  cafe,  another  store, 
another  shop?  Why  another  plant,  an- 
other office,  another  service,  another 
business?  Why  another  of  anything  if 
one  has  that  already  which  provides  the 
necessities  and  reasonable  luxuries? 
Why  continue  to  expand  and  increase 
holdings,  especially  when  those  in- 
creased responsibilities  draw  one's  in- 
terests away  from  proper  family  and 
spiritual  commitments,  and  from  those 
things  to  which  the  Lord  would  have 
us  give  precedence  in  our  lives?  Why 
must  we  always  be  expanding  to  the 
point  where  our  interests  are  divided 
and  our  attentions  and  thoughts  are 
upon  the  things  of  the  world?  Certain- 
ly when  one's  temporal  possessions  be- 
come great,  it  is  very  difficult  for  one 
to  give  proper  attention  to  the  spiritual 
things. 

Better  is  the  poor  that  walketh  in  his 
uprightness,  than  he  that  is  perverse  in 
his  ways,  though  he  be  rich.  (Prov.  28:6.) 

And  then  this  from  Proverbs  struck 
me: 

A  faithful  man  shall  abound  with  bless- 
ings: but  he  that  maketh  haste  to  be  rich 
shall  not  be  innocent.  (Ibid.,  28:20.) 

And  I  wonder  if  many  of  us  are  not 
hasting  to  be  rich.  Are  we  making 
compromises  in  order  to  accumulate? 
I  wonder  if  money  earned  upon  the 
Sabbath,  when  it  is  unnecessary  Sabbath 
earning,  might  not  also  be  unclean 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


55 


money.  I  realize  that  some  people  must 
work  on  the  Sabbath;  and  when  they 
do,  if  they  are  compelled,  that  is,  of 
course,  a  different  situation.  But  men 
and  women  who  will  deliberately  use 
the  Sabbath  day  to  develop  business 
propositions,  to  increase  their  holdings, 
to  increase  their  income,  I  fear  for 
them.  I  think  the  Lord  was  speaking 
to  them  when  he  said:  "Woe  unto  them 
that  call  evil  good,  ..."  (Isa.  5:20.) 
Sometimes  we  salve  our  consciences  by 
saying  that  the  more  we  get  the  more 
we  can  give  to  the  worthy  causes,  but 
that,  of  course,  is  a  subterfuge.  There 
are  people  who  work  on  the  Sabbath, 
not  through  compulsion  but  because  the 
income  is  attractive,  and  others  who 
work  voluntarily  to  get  the  "time  and 
a  half"  that  Sabbath  work  gives  them. 

In  a  stake  recently  I  interviewed  a 
man  for  an  important  position  in  the 
stake  reorganization.  And  I  said  to 
him,  "What  is  your  occupation?"  And 
he  said,  "I  operate  a  service  station." 
And  I  asked,  "Do  you  operate  on  the 
Sabbath?"  His  answer  was,  "No,  I  do 
not."  "Well,  how  can  you  get  along? 
Most  service  station  operators  seem  to 
think  they  must  open  on  the  Sabbath." 
"I  get  along  well,"  he  said.  "The  Lord 
is  good  to  me."  "Do  you  not  have  stiff 
competition?"  I  asked.  "Yes,  indeed," 
he  replied.  "Across  the  street  is  a  man 
who  keeps  open  all  day  Sunday."  "And 
you  never  open?"  I  asked.  "No,  sir,"  he 
said,  "and  I  am  grateful,  and  the  Lord 
is  kind,  and  I  have  sufficient  for  my 
needs." 

I  was  in  another  stake,  also  in  a  re- 
organization program,  and  another 
brother  was  considered  for  one  of  the 
highest  positions;  and  when  we  asked 
him  of  his  occupation,  he  said  he  was 
a  grocer  by  trade.  "Well,  most  of  the 
stores  keep  open  on  the  Sabbath.  Do 
you?"  "We  lock  our  store  on  Sunday," 
he  said.  "But  how  can  you  compete 
with  these  people  who  are  open  seven 
days  a  week?"  "We  compete.  At  least 
we  get  along  very  well,"  was  his  reply. 
"But  would  not  the  Sabbath  be  your 
biggest  day?"  "Yes,"  he  answered,  "we 
would  probably  sell  twice  as  much  on 


the  Sabbath  as  we  would  on  an  aver- 
age day,  but  we  get  along  without  it, 
and  the  Lord  has  been  kind;  he  has 
been  gracious;  he  has  been  good." 
"What  do  you  sell  in  this  store?"  I 
asked  him.  He  said,  "Groceries  and 
miscellaneous  merchandise."  "Your 
competitors  sell  other  things  including 
forbidden  things,  do  they  not?"  I  asked. 
"Yes,  but  we  have  felt  it  was  not  right," 
he  said.  "We  lose  trade,  of  course. 
People  leave  our  store  and  go  to  the 
other  store  and  buy  many  dollars'  worth 
of  groceries  where  they  can  get  a  few 
cans  of  beer  or  some  wine,  but  we  do 
not  sell  it."  And  I  could  not  refrain 
from  saying,  "God  bless  you,  my  faith- 
ful brother.  The  Lord  will  not  be  un- 
mindful of  these  seeming  sacrifices. 
Your  dollars  are  clean.  They  will  surely 
not  hinder  you  in  finding  your  way  into 
the  kingdom  of  God." 

The  Savior  knew  that  the  ox  gets  in 
the  mire  on  the  Sabbath,  but  he  knew 
also  that  no  ox  deliberately  goes  into 
the  mire  every  week. 

In  my  extensive  travels  I  find  many 
faithful  people  who  forego  the  Sabbath 
day  profits  and  those  which  come  from 
the  handling  of  the  forbidden  things. 
I  have  found  cattle  communities  where 
the  stockmen  never  carry  on  their 
roundup  on  the  Sabbath;  fruit  stands 
along  the  roadside  which  are  open 
night  and  day,  but  which  close  on 
Sunday  even  in  the  short  fruit  season; 
drugstores  and  confectionery  businesses 
which  earn  their  money  on  the  six 
weekdays;  eating  houses  and  wayside 
stands,  closed  on  the  Lord's  day.  And 
there  are  many  other  people  who  might 
rationalize  and  justify  themselves  in 
Sunday  profit  taking  but  who  take  satis- 
faction and  joy  in  refraining.  And  every 
time  I  see  good  folk  who  are  willing  to 
forego  these  profits,  I  rejoice  and  feel 
within  my  heart  to  bless  them  for  their 
steadfastness,  their  courage,  and  their 
faith. 

There  are  many  other  ways,  of  course, 
in  which  money  can  be  tainted.  I  pray 
that  we  will  keep  our  money  clean. 
And  I  pray  the  Lord  that  he  will  bless 
his  children  that  they  will  have  the 


56  GENERAL  ( 

Saturday,  October  3 

faith  to  live  his  commandments,  sacri- 
fice though  there  may  seem  to  be.  I 
know  that  God  will  make  it  up  to 
them.  I  know  that  men  will  never 
suffer,  ultimately,  for  any  seeming 
financial  sacrifices  that  might  be  made, 
for  he  has  commanded  us  to  live  his 
laws  and  then  has  challenged  us: 

.  .  .  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the 
Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open  you  the 
windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a 
blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be  room  enough 
to  receive  it.  (Malachi  3:10.) 

And  may  God  bless  all  of  us  that  we 
will  live  close  to  his  teachings  and 
thereby  merit  the  blessings  which  he 
has  promised  to  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  con- 
cluded speaking. 

The  German  members  of  the  Church 
who  constitute  the  Choir,  which  has 
furnished  such  excellent  singing,  will 


Second  Day 

now  sing,  "Lord,  Throughout  the  World 
Thy  Powers  Proclaim,"  conducted  by 
Elder  Heinz  Rimmasch. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Lewis  R.  Anderson,  President  of 
the  Manti  Temple,  after  which  this  con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  two 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 

In  addition  to  the  words  of  apprecia- 
tion expressed  to  the  German  members 
of  the  Choir  by  Brother  Thomas  E. 
McKay,  we  wish  to  commend  our  Choir 
members  and  leader  for  the  choice  se- 
lections sung  so  impressively  this  morn- 
ing. 

They  have  been  accompanied  by 
Brother  Frank  W.  Asper,  at  the  organ. 

"Lord,  Throughout  the  World  Thy 
Powers  Claim,"  will  now  be  sung,  after 
which  Elder  Anderson  will  offer  the 
benediction. 


The  German-speaking  choir  sang 
"Lord  Throughout  the  World  Proclaim." 

President  Lewis  R.  Anderson  of  the 
Manti  Temple  pronounced  the  benedic- 
tion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  at  2:00  p.m., 
Saturday,  October  3,  1953. 

The  choral  music  for  this  afternoon's 
session  was  furnished  by  the  German 
Choir,  Elder  Heinz  Rimmasch,  con- 
ductor. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  pre- 
sided and  conducted  the  services,  open- 
ing the  meeting  with  the  following 
statement: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

To  the  radio  audience  listening  in,  we 
are  pleased  to  announce  that  the  Taber- 
nacle is  crowded  as  heretofore  in  our 
sessions.  This  is  the  fourth  session  of 
the  One  Hundred  Twenty-Fourth  Semi- 


Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

To  those  who  are  unable  to  gain  ad- 
mittance to  the  Tabernacle  we  announce 
that  overflow  meetings  are  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  the  Barratt  Hall, 
where  a  loud-speaking  system  and  tele- 
vision are  operating.  These  services  will 
also  be  televised  over  KSL  television  of 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  will  be  heard  over 
radio  station  KSL  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  twelve  radio  stations 
in  Utah,  Idaho,  and  Arizona,  the  names 
of  which  stations  have  already  been  an- 
nounced to  the  radio  audiences. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon's  ses- 
sion will  be  by  the  German  Choir, 
made  up  of  German-speaking  members 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


57 


of  the  Church,  with  Elder  Heinz  Rim- 
masch  conducting,  and  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
choir  singing  "Hallowed  Be  Thy  Name." 
The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  A.  George  Raymond,  president 
of  the  Logan  Temple. 


The  German  choir  sang  the  sacred 
selection,  "Hallowed  Be  Thy  Name." 
Elder  George  A.  Raymond,  President 


of  the  Logan  Temple,  offered  the  invo- 
cation. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "More  Holiness 
Give  Me." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will 
be  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
who  will  be  followed  by  Bishop  Carl 
W.  Buehner. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


If  I  may  have  the  guidance  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  I  wish  to  speak 
of  our  Redeemer  as  our  Advocate  and 
our  Mediator.  I  think  that  quite  gen- 
erally we  do  not  understand  his  mis- 
sion as  fully  in  this  regard  as  it  is  pos- 
sible for  us  to  do. 

In  the  sixth  chapter  of  Exodus  there 
is  a  statement  which  is  a  mis-translation 
which  I  will  read  to  you: 

"And  God  spake  unto  Moses,  and 
said  unto  him,  I  am  the  Lord: 

"And  I  appeared  unto  Abraham,  unto 
Isaac,  and  unto  Jacob,  by  the  name  of 
God  Almighty,  but  by  my  name 
JEHOVAH  was  I  not  known  to  them." 
(Ex.  6:2-3.) 

Now  the  Hebrew  scriptures  inform  us 
that  he  referred  to  himself  and  is  re- 
ferred to  throughout  the  Old  Testament 
as  Jehovah,  so  this  cannot  be  a  correct 
translation.    It  should  read: 

"And  God  spake  unto  Moses,  and  said 
unto  him,  I  am  the  Lord: 

"And  I  appeared  unto  Abraham,  unto 
Isaac,  and  unto  Jacob.    I  am  the  Lord 
God  Almighty,  the  Lord  JEHOVAH,  and 
was  not  my  name  known  among  them?" 
That  changes  the  whole  meaning  of 

it. 

Now  an  advocate  is  one  who  defends 
or  pleads  for  or  in  behalf  of  another. 
A  mediator  is  one  who  reconciles  or 
brings  about  agreement  between  parties. 
I  want  to  read  one  or  two  passages  of 
scripture  on  this  point. 


"Lift  up  your  hearts  and  be  glad,  for 
I  am  in  your  midst,  and  am  your  advo- 
cate with  the  Father;  and  it  is  his  good 
will  to  give  you  the  kingdom."  (D.  &  C. 
29:5.) 

"Listen  to  him  who  is  the  advocate 
with  the  Father,  who  is  pleading  your 
cause  before  him — 

"Saying:  Father,  behold  the  sufferings 
and  death  of  him  who  did  not  sin, 
in  whom  thou  wast  well  pleased;  be- 
hold the  blood  of  thy  Son  which  was 
shed,  the  blood  of  him  whom  thou 
gavest  that  thyself  might  be  glorified." 
(Ibid.,  45:3-4.) 

"Behold,  and  hearken,  O  ye  elders 
of  my  church,  saith  the  Lord  your  God, 
even  Jesus  Christ,  your  advocate,  who 
knoweth  the  weakness  of  man  and  how 
to  succor  them  who  are  tempted." 
(Ibid.,  62:1.) 

"I  am  the  first  and  the  last;  I  am  he 
who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was  slain;  I 
am  your  advocate  with  the  Father." 
(Ibid.,  110:4.) 

"These  are  they  who  are  just  men 
made  perfect  through  Jesus  the  media- 
tor of  the  new  covenant,  who  wrought 
out  this  perfect  atonement  through  the 
shedding  of  his  own  blood."  (Ibid., 
76:69.) 

"The  power  and  authority  of  the 
higher,  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  is  to 
hold  the  keys  of  all  the  spiritual  bless- 
ings of  the  Church; 

"To  have  the  privilege  of  receiving 


58 

Saturday,  October  3 

the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven, 
to  have  the  heavens  opened  unto  them, 
to  commune  with  the  general  assembly 
and  church  of  the  Firstborn,  and  to 
enjoy  the  communion  and  presence  of 
God  the  Father,  and  Jesus  the  mediator 
of  the  new  covenant."  (Ibid.,  107:18-19.) 

This  from  the  First  Epistle  of  John, 
Verse  1,  Chapter  2:  "My  little  children, 
these  things  write  I  unto  you,  that  ye 
sin  not.  And  if  any  man  sin,  we  have 
an  advocate  with  the  Father,  Jesus 
Christ  the  righteous." 

Paul  wrote  to  Timothy  as  follows: 
"For  there  is  one  God,  and  one  mediator 
between  God  and  men,  the  man  Christ 
Jesus; 

"Who  gave  himself  a  ransom  for  all, 
to  be  testified  in  due  time."  (I  Timothy 
2:5-6.) 

When  Adam  was  in  the  Garden  of 
Eden  he  was  in  the  presence  of  God, 
our  Father.  He  learned  his  language. 
The  first  part  of  Genesis  dealing  with 
the  creation  and  with  Adam  in  the 
Garden  of  Eden  is  when  the  Father 
was  present  with  him. 

After  he  was  driven  out  of  the  Garden 
of  Eden  the  scene  changed.  Adam  was 
banished  because  of  his  transgression 
from  the  presence  of  the  Father.  The 
scriptures  say  he  became  spiritually  dead 
— that  is,  he  was  shut  out  from  the 
presence  of  God. 

From  that  time  on  Jesus  Christ  comes 
on  the  scene  as  our  advocate,  pleading 
for  us  as  our  mediator  through  his 
ministry  and  labors  to  reconcile  us,  to 
bring  us  into  agreement  with  God,  his 
Father. 

That  is  part  of  his  great  mission.  He 
stands  between  the  Father  and  man.  He 
pleads  our  cause.  You  know,  when  he 
was  upon  the  earth  he  prayed  frequent- 
ly, and  he  prayed  for  his  disciples, 
pleading  with  his  Father  in  their  behalf, 
and  he  has  been  pleading  ever  since, 
and  he  stands  between  us  and  God, 
our  Father. 

I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to 
one  little  thing  in  the  first  vision  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  It  is  very 
significant,  and  Joseph  Smith  did  not 
know  it.   If  he  had  been  perpetrating  a 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

fraud,  he  would  not  have  thought  of  it. 
You  will  recall  in  your  reading  that  the 
Father  and  the  Son  appeared,  and  the 
Father  introduced  the  Son  and  told  the 
Prophet  to  hear  the  Son. 

Now  suppose  the  Prophet  had  come 
back  from  the  woods  and  had  said  the 
Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  him, 
and  the  Father  had  said,  "Joseph,  what 
do  you  want?"  and  when  he  asked  the 
question  and  told  him  what  he  wanted, 
the  Father  had  answered  him;  then 
we  would  know  that  the  story  of  the 
Prophet  could  not  be  true. 

All  revelation  comes  through  Jesus 
Christ.  I  have  not  time  to  go  into  the 
scriptures  and  give  you  references  for 
that,  but  that  is  the  fact.  He  it  was 
who  led  Israel,  and  if  I  do  not  pro- 
crastinate upon  the  time,  I  will  take 
the  rest  of  it  to  read  to  you  the  state- 
ment from  President  George  Q.  Can- 
non, bearing  on  this  point. 

"There  is  in  modern  Christendom  a 
strong  tendency  to  ascribe  to  the  Father 
visits  and  communications  with  man- 
kind that  were  really  made  by  the  Lord 
Jesus.  There  is  even  a  respectable  per- 
centage of  the  members  of  his  Church, 
established  in  these  days,  who  have  the 
idea  that  it  was  the  Father  and  not  the 
Son  who  appeared  to  the  patriarchs  and 
prophets  of  old,  who  delivered  Israel 
from  Egypt,  who  gave  the  law  on  Sinai, 
and  who  was  the  guide  and  inspirer  of 
the  ancient  seers.  This  was  not  the  un- 
derstanding of  the  true  servants  of  God 
either  before  or  after  his  coming.  Those 
who  preceded  the  advent  of  the  Messiah 
understood  that  he  whom  they  wor- 
shiped as  Jehovah  should  in  due  time 
tabernacle  in  the  flesh,  and  the  writings 
of  Justin  Martyr  and  other  of  the  early 
fathers  show  that  this  was  the  belief 
of  the  early  Christian  Church  on  the 
eastern  continent.  The  writings  of  the 
Hebrew  prophets,  as  we  have  them  in 
the  Bible,  are  perhaps  not  as  plain  on 
this  point  as  are  those  of  the  Nephite 
seers  that  are  revealed  to  us  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  But  we  have  in  this  latter 
record  some  quotations  from  the  earlier 
Hebrew  prophets  that  make  this  point 
very  clear.    Nephi  writes, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


59 


"  'And  the  God  of  our  fathers,  who 
were  led  out  of  Egypt,  out  of  bondage, 
and  also  were  preserved  in  the  wilder- 
ness by  him,  yea,  the  God  of  Abraham, 
and  of  Isaac,  and  the  God  of  Jacob, 
yieldeth  himself,  according  to  the  words 
of  the  angel,  as  a  man,  into  the  hands 
of  wicked  men,  to  be  lifted  up,  accord- 
ing to  the  words  of  Zenock,  and  to  be 
crucified,  according  to  the  words  of 
Neum,  and  to  be  buried  in  a  sepulchre, 
according  to  the  words  of  Zenos.'  (I 
Nephi  19:10.) 

"Here  we  have  the  testimony  of 
Zenock,  Neum,  and  Zenos  that  the  God 
of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob  was  by 
wicked  men  to  be  lifted  up,  crucified 
and  afterwards  buried  in  a  sepulchre, 
showing  that  these  ancient  worthies  un- 
derstood that  it  was  the  God  of  Israel 
who  should  come  to  his  own.  Nephi 
who  himself  was  a  Hebrew  and  the  son 
of  a  prophet  of  that  same  race,  also 
testifies  in  the  above  passage  that  it 
was  the  same  God  of  their  fathers  who 
led  them  out  of  Egypt  and  preserved 
them  in  the  wilderness.  About  four 
hundred  years  later  another  Nephite 
seer,  King  Benjamin,  testifies  that  an 
angel  came  to  him  and  made  this  glori- 
ous promise: 

"  'For  behold,  the  time  cometh,  and 
is  not  far  distant,  that  with  power, 
the  Lord  Omnipotent  who  reigneth,  who 
was,  and  is  from  all  eternity  to  all 
eternity,  shall  come  down  from  heaven 
among  the  children  of  men,  and  shall 
dwell  in  a  tabernacle  of  clay,  and 
shall  go  forth  amongst  men,  working 
mighty  miracles,  such  as  healing  the 
sick,  raising  the  dead,  causing  the  lame 
to  walk,  the  blind  to  receive  their 
sight,  and  the  deaf  to  hear,  and  curing 
all  manner  of  diseases.'  (Mosiah  3:5.) 

A  little  further  on  he  says: 

"  'And  he  shall  be  called  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Son  of  God,  the  Father  of  heaven 
and  earth,  the  Creator  of  all  things 
from  the  beginning;  and  his  mother 
shall  be  called  Mary. 

"  'And  lo,  he  cometh  unto  his  own, 
that  salvation  might  come  unto  the 
children  of  men  even  through  faith  on 
his  name;  and  even  after  all  this  they 


shall  consider  him  a  man,  and  say  that 
he  hath  a  devil,  and  shall  scourge  him, 
and  shall  crucify  him.'  (Ibid.,  3:8-9.) 

"But  we  have  the  word  of  the  Savior 
himself  on  this  point  that  puts  contro- 
versy to  an  end.  When,  after  his 
resurrection  and  ascension  into  heaven, 
he  first  appeared  to  his  Nephite 
disciples  on  this  land,  he  declared,  'Be- 
hold, I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the 
prophets  testified  shall  come  into  the 
world. 

" '.  .  .  I  am  the  God  of  Israel,  and 
the  God  of  the  whole  earth,  and  have 
been  slain  for  the  sins  of  the  world.' 
(3  Nephi  11:10,  14.)  Later  during  his 
ministry  among  the  Nephites  he  af- 
firms: 'Behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  the 
law  is  fulfilled  that  was  given  unto 
Moses. 

"  'Behold,  I  am  he  that  gave  the  law, 
and  I  am  he  who  covenanted  with  my 
people  Israel;  therefore,  the  law  in  me 
is  fulfilled.'  (Ibid.,  15:4-5.) 

"Should  any  still  have  a  lingering 
doubt  that  the  Jehovah  who  revealed 
himself  to  Abraham,  to  Moses  and  to 
others  was  any  other  than  he  whom  we 
know  in  the  flesh  as  Jesus  Christ,  that 
doubt  is  set  at  rest  by  the  revelations 
given  in  these  days.  In  the  vision  seen 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  by 
Oliver  Cowdery  in  the  Kirtland  Temple, 
3rd  of  April,  1836,  the  following  ap- 
pears: 

"  'We  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon 
the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit,  before  us; 
and  under  his  feet  was  a  paved  work  of 
pure  gold,  in  color  like  a"mber. 

"  'His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire; 
the  hair  of  his  head  was  white  like  the 
pure  snow;  his  countenance  shone  above 
the  brightness  of  the  sun;  and  his  voice 
was  as  the  sound  of  the  rushing  of  great 
waters,  even  the  voice  of  Jehovah,  say- 
ing: 

"  'I  am  the  first  and  the  last;  I  am 
he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was  slain; 
I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father.' 
(D.  &  C.  110:2-4.) 

"Somewhat  curiously  an  ancient 
Syriac  manuscript  has  within  the  last 
few  months  been  unearthed  that  is 
known  as  the  gospel  of  the  Twelve 


60 

Saturday,  October  3 

Apostles.  Whether  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles had  anything  to  do  with  writing  it 
has  nothing  to  do  with  the  point  under 
consideration.  The  writing  was  origi- 
nally in  Hebrew,  and  what  we  wish  to 
draw  attention  to  is  that  whenever  the 
manuscript  was  first  written,  the 
writers  of  the  original  believed  that 
Jesus  was  he  who  spake  with  the  an- 
cient Israelites.    It  commences: 

"  'The  beginning  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God, 
according  as  it  was  said  by  the  Holy 
Spirit,  I  send  an  angel  before  his  face, 
who  shall  prepare  his  way. 

"  'It  came  to  pass  in  the  309th  year  of 
Alexander,  the  son  of  Philip  the  Mace- 
donian, in  the  reign  of  Tiberius  Caesar, 
in  the  government  of  Herod,  the  ruler 
of  the  Jews,  that  the  Angel  Gabriel, 
the  chief  of  the  angels,  by  command  of 
God  went  down  to  Nazareth  to  a  virgin 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

called  Miriam,  of  the  tribe  of  Judah  the 
son  of  Israel  (her  who  was  betrothed 
to  Joseph  the  Just),  and  he  appeared 
to  her  and  said,  "Lol  there  ariseth  from 
thee  the  one  who  spake  with  our  fathers, 
and  he  shall  be  a  Savior  to  Israel;  and 
they  who  do  not  confess  him  shall 
perish,  for  his  authority  is  in  the  lofty 
heights,  and  his  kingdom  does  not  pass 
away." ' " 

The  Lord  bless  you  all  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  presi- 
dent of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  has 
just  concluded  speaking.  We  shall  now 
hear  from  Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of 
the  Presiding  Bishopric,  who  will  be 
followed  by  President  Levi  Edgar  Young. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  diffi- 
cult as  this  assignment  is  for  me, 
I  must  admit  that  I  am  still  very 
happy  to  be  able  to  greet  you  in  general 
conference,  and  to  bear  you  my  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  this  great  work, 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  hope 
in  the  few  moments  that  I  stand  here 
that  the  Lord  will  sustain  me. 

I  should  like  to  pay  my  humble  tribute 
to  the  three  great  high  priests  who  pre- 
side over  our  Church,  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  this  Church,  the  men  whom 
we  love  and  honor,  men  who  serve  as 
if  in  the  prime  of  life,  and  yet  have 
lived  many  years  beyond  those  at  which 
most  of  us  retire. 

If  I  am  right,  and  I  think  I  am,  all 
three  of  these  great  leaders  have  had  a 
birthday  since  our  last  general  con- 
ference. President  McKay  in  his  eighty- 
first  year  is  an  inspiration  to  the  Church, 
a  great  leader.  I  have  met  several 
women  who,  when  seeing  President 
McKay  walk  by,  say,  "He  looks  just  like 
an  angel."    I  can  concur  in  this,  and 


besides  that,  he  speaks  and  looks  as  a 
prophet. 

Standing  at  his  one  side  is  President 
Stephen  L  Richards,  the  youngest  of 
these  three,  a  man  with  a  great  legal 
mind,  a  great  organizer,  and  he  certainly 
has  been  an  outstanding  counselor  to 
President  McKay. 

On  his  other  side  is  the  dean  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church, 
President  Clark,  in  his  eighty-third 
year — a  man  who  has  become  one  of 
the  greatest  statesmen  we  will  ever 
know  and  with  a  testimony  of  the  gos- 
pel as  firm  as  the  Rock  of  Gibraltar. 

I  am  sure  you  all  join  with  me  in  ex- 
pressing our  love  and  admiration  for 
these  three  great  men,  for  their  devoted 
leadership  over  the  Church. 

As  I  figure  this  up,  these  men  together 
have  lived  237  years,  and  if  I  am  right, 
and  I  don't  think  I  am  far  from  it,  they 
have  served  either  in  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  or  as  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church  for  an  aggregate  of  more  than 
one  hundred  years. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


61 


I  would  like  to  suppose  that  the  com- 
bined information  of  these  three  out- 
standing men,  together  with  inspira- 
tion and  revelation  from  our  heavenly 
Father,  would  exceed  the  knowledge  of 
any  other  three  men  upon  the  face  of 
the  earth  today.  I  am  sure  I  am  right 
in  this  supposition. 

They  are  our  leaders.  Brethren  and 
sisters,  I  wish  that  leaders  of  men  and 
nations  all  over  this  earth  would  listen 
to  the  counsel  of  these  three  great  leaders 
of  ours.  When  I  think  of  the  millions, 
yes,  billions  of  dollars  that  are  spent 
to  create  weapons  of  war,  destructive 
weapons  designed  to  wipe  out  the  peo- 
ple of  the  earth,  and  I  compare  that 
with  the  message  that  goes  forth  from 
Zion  carried  by  the  missionaries  of  the 
Church,  I  assure  you  they  go  forth  with 
greater  power  than  the  power  of  deadly 
weapons,  and  I  sincerely  hope  the  day 
will  soon  come  when  these  young  men 
can  go  forth  as  an  army  of  men  clothed 
with  righteousness  and  the  power  of  the 
priesthood,  preaching  the  gospel  of  peace 
and  salvation  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  I  would  that  we  had  twenty 
thousand  of  them  instead  of  the  two 
or  three  thousand  we  have  in  the  earth 
today  and  that  they  would  not  be  re- 
stricted in  their  work  of  preaching  to 
every  nation,  every  kindred,  every 
tongue,  and  every  people. 

Brother  Sonne  made  a  very  signifi- 
cant statement  in  his  talk,  and  I  have 
felt  the  same  thing,  that  the  strength 
of  the  Church  is  in  the  individual  testi- 
mony of  its  members,  and  as  I  have 
traveled  about  this  Church,  I  have  had 
some  wonderful  manifestations,  and  I 
have  heard  some  very  thrilling  expe- 
riences. I  would  like  to  relate  two  or 
three  of  these  to  you. 

Recently,  when  it  was  announced 
that  we  were  going  to  build  a  temple  in 
Switzerland  and  another  one  in  Eng- 
land, a  number  of  people  came  into  my 
office,  and  I  am  sure  they  have  to  the 
offices  of  all  of  these  brethren,  wonder- 
ing how  they  could  make  a  contribu- 
tion to  the  erection  of  these  temples. 

Among  those  who  came  to  see  me  was 


a  very  elderly  couple,  and  they  said, 
"Bishop,  just  how  could  we  make  a 
small  contribution  toward  the  con- 
struction of  the  Swiss  Temple?  We 
have  had  such  a  thrilling  experience  in 
our  life  doing  temple  work  and  gene- 
alogical work,  we  would  love  to  make 
a  little  contribution  to  that  temple  and 
to  those  good  people  in  that  far-off  land." 
So,  I  told  them  that  that  was  a  very 
easy  thing  to  do,  and  if  they  just  wanted 
to  leave  the  money,  I  would  be  glad 
to  give  them  a  receipt  for  it,  and  I 
would  be  sure  that  it  would  go  toward 
that  very  marvelous  project.  Then, 
this  man's  good  wife  said,  "Brother 
Buehner,  would  it  be  possible  for  my 
name  to  be  put  on  that  receipt?"  and  I 
said,  "We  will  fix  that  receipt  any  way 
you  would  like  to  have  it."  She  said, 
"Now,  I  don't  want  to  give  you  the 
impression  that  my  husband  and  I  have 
not  been  very  happy.  We  have  been. 
We  have  had  a  wonderful  life  together, 
but  I  would  like  to  see  my  name  on  that 
receipt  along  with  my  husband's 
name."    This  seemed  satisfactory. 

So  they  said,  "We'll  be  back  in  a  little 
while."  In  about  thirty  minutes,  they 
returned,  and  this  good  man,  his  life 
almost  over,  and  so  was  his  wife's — 
they  had  lived  a  long  time — laid  down 
a  check  for  a  thousand  dollars,  and 
his  wife  gave  me  ten  one-hundred-dol- 
lar greenbacks,  another  thousand  dollars, 
each  wanting  to  contribute  a  thousand 
dollars  toward  the  erection  of  the  tem- 
ple in  Switzerland. 

Others  with  their  two  dollars  and 
five  dollars  and  ten  dollars,  and  a  thou- 
sand dollars  and  ten  thousand  dollars 
and  more — it  is  marvelous  what  the 
people  of  the  Church  voluntarily  do  to 
help  push  forward  this  great  work. 

I  heard  another  little  experience  that 
happened  somewhere  up  in  the  Uintah 
Basin  a  while  ago,  where  for  twenty- 
five  years  they  talked  about  building  a 
new  chapel.  Finally,  the  bishopric  then 
in  the  ward  decided  they  had  talked 
about  this  thing  long  enough,  and  they 
would  like  to  organize  a  finance  com- 
mittee, a  building  committee  and  go 


62 

Saturday,  October  3 

ahead,  so  they  sent  out  letters  assessing 
the  membership  of  the  ward  for  this 
purpose. 

Among  those  who  received  a  letter 
and  an  assessment  of  one  hundred  dol- 
lars was  a  little  widow  who  had  not 
been  very  active  in  the  Church,  and 
one  that  the  bishopric  did  not  know 
very  well;  but  they  thought  they  would 
visit  this  woman.  When  they  went 
to  her  home  and  opened  the  door,  they 
realized  they  had  made  a  great  mistake. 
They  should  never  have  assessed  this 
poor,  little  old  soul  one  hundred  dol- 
lars, they  said,  and  so  in  the  middle  of 
their  talk  of  trying  to  justify  what  they 
had  done  in  talking  themselves  out  of 
the  assessment  that  they  had  made  to 
this  woman,  she  said,  "Just  a  minute, 
brethren,  you  have  assessed  me  one 
hundred  dollars.  I  would  like  to  do 
my  part."  They  said  she  walked  over 
to  the  mantel  shelf,  reached  her  hand 
into  a  little  piece  of  crockery,  and 
counted  out  to  the  bishop  five  hundred 
dollars  in  greenbacks. 

Then  he  said  that  time  went  on,  and 
the  building  got  started.  They  were 
putting  the  rafters  on  it,  and  one  day 
the  bishop  got  another  call  from  this 
woman,  and  he  thought,  "Oh,  dear, 
she  wants  her  money  back,  and  we  have 
spent  it  on  the  chapel." 

When  they  went  to  see  her,  she  said, 
"You  don't  know  how  thrilled  I  am  to 
see  our  building  come  into  fruition.  We 
have  talked  about  it  all  these  years,  but 
you  brethren  have  actually  gone  to 
work,  and  now  I  can  see  it  grow,  and 
the  rafters  are  going  on.  I  would  just 
like  to  give  you  another  five  hundred 
dollars  to  be  sure  it  is  completed  be- 
cause I  don't  think  I'll  live  until  we 
finish  the  building,  and  I  would  like 
to  have  a  little  credit  on  the  other  side." 

This  is  not  just  an  isolated  case.  We 
hear  these  stories  all  the  time. 

Let  me  tell  you  one  other  expe- 
rience, a  little  different  from  this,  and 
then  my  time  is  up. 

I  was  up  in  Richland  Stake  in  Rich- 
land, Washington,  not  so  long  ago, 
and  a  man  was  called  out  of  the  audi- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

ence  to  bear  his  testimony,  a  new  con- 
vert to  the  Church.  When  he  came  to 
the  stand,  he  was  shaking  much  worse 
than  I  am  now,  and  I  am  very  shaky, 
and  said,  "I  think  I'll  tell  you  people 
how  I  became  a  member  of  the  Church. 
I  was  a  very  ardent  Baptist,  and  I  lived 
in  New  York  City  near  the  leaders  of 
the  Baptist  Church.  One  day  they 
called  me  in  and  asked  me  if  I  would 
go  on  a  mission  to  the  Belgian  Congo, 
and  I  accepted.  Of  course,  they  said, 
'Now,  we'll  pay  you  $425.00  a  month 
while  you  are  on  the  mission,'  but 
even  at  that  they  could  not  get  very 
many  missionaries  to  serve  for  the  Bap- 
tist Church.  I  spent  three  years  there, 
and  when  I  completed  my  mission,  I 
got  on  a  boat  coming  up  the  African 
coast.  The  second  day  on  board  that 
boat,  I  noticed  two  fine,  clean-cut  look- 
ing young  men  walking  around  the 
deck  of  that  boat,  each  with  two  books 
under  their  arms.  They  so  fascinated 
me;  they  so  attracted  my  attention  that 
I  could  not  keep  my  eyes  off  those  young 
men,  and  I  followed  them  nearly  all 
day.  Finally  near  the  end  of  the  day, 
I  got  enough  courage  to  walk  up  to 
them  and  introduce  myself.  I  learned 
they  also  had  been  missionaries  in  South 
Africa,  and  I  said  to  these  young  men, 
'The  Baptist  Church  pays  me  $425.00  a 
month.  How  much  does  your  Church 
pay  you?'  These  two  young  men  smiled 
and  said,  'Our  Church  does  not  pay  us 
anything.  We  pay  our  own  expenses.' 
Then  I  began  to  feel  humiliated.  For 
twenty-one  days  as  we  crossed  the  ocean, 
we  sat  on  the  deck  of  the  boat,  and  we 
compared  the  doctrine  I  taught  as  com- 
pared with  the  doctrine  of  these  two 
fine  young  missionaries.  I  became 
so  converted  that  I  was  all  wrong  and 
that  these  young  men  were  all  right 
that  I  hated  to  see  the  boat  arrive  in  the 
harbor  at  New  York,  and  I  just  did  not 
want  these  young  men  to  get  out  of  my 
sight.  As  a  matter  of  fact  I  did  follow 
them  halfway  across  the  continent,  and 
here  I  am  in  Richland  today,  a  member 
of  the  Mormon  Church,  and  the  hap- 
piest member  in  this  stake.    To  this 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


63 


day,  I  have  not  collected  my  last  check 
of  $425.00,  and  to  this  day,  I  have  not 
reported  to  the  leaders  of  the  Baptist 
Church  that  I  have  returned  from  the 
Belgian  Congo."  And  the  way  he  said 
that,  I  just  believe  he  was  one  of  the 
happiest  members  of  the  Richland  Stake. 

It  is  wonderful  what  you  see  as  you 
travel  about  the  Church.  Brethren  and 
sisters,  I  just  hope  we  will  have  a  de- 
sire to  serve  our  heavenly  Father  with 
all  our  might,  mind,  and  strength. 

Let  us  sustain  these  three  great  leaders 
of  ours  with  all  the  strength  we  have. 
Let  us  live  our  religion.  We  are  great 
teachers  when  we  remember  who  we 
are  and  when  we  live  our  lives  and 
reflect  through  our  lives  the  value  of 
the  gospel  to  us.  May  we  be  loyal,  may 
we  be  faithful,  may  we  accept  the  re- 
sponsibilities that  come  to  us  and  do 
them  faithfully  and  do  them  well.  We 


will  live  longer.  There  is  life  when 
we  are  active,  and  there  could  be  spir- 
itual death  if  we  do  not  accept  the  op- 
portunities that  come  to  us  to  serve. 

If  these  great  men  can  serve  as  they 
do,  I  am  sure  we  should  each  have  a 
desire  to  do  our  part  to  make  their  load 
as  light  for  them  as  we  can  and  to  help 
push  forward  this  great  work  of  our 
heavenly  Father,  and  may  it  be  so,  and 
may  the  blessings  of  our  heavenly  Father 
be  with  everyone  of  us  always,  I  pray 
humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  of  the  Church  has  just 
addressed  us.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
President  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS:  I  should 
like  to  express  my  appreciation  for 
this  excellent  choir  that  has  been 
rendering  the  music  of  today.  The 
singers  are  Germans,  and  we  are  all 
interested  in  the  German  people.  They 
have  made  a  contribution  to  this  sacred 
religious  movement  that  we  represent. 
I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that  the 
German  nation  will  come  back  and  es- 
tablish again  the  civilization  and  cul- 
ture that  it  once  had.  They  are  a  great 
people. 

A  few  days  ago,  two  meetings  of  all 
the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
were  held.  The  first  one  was  in  the 
temple  at  Logan,  and  a  few  days  later 
the  second  meeting  was  held  in  our 
temple  here  in  Salt  Lake  City.  In 
thinking  of  them  I  realize  more  and 
more  that  to  love  and  know  God  is  the 
highest  blessedness  of  mankind.  Tem- 
ples built  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
houses  of  prayer,  of  fasting,  and  of 
faith,  houses  of  glory  and  order,  houses 
of  God.   You  recall  the  words  as  found 


in  the  dedicatory  prayer  of  the  Kirtland 
Temple  which  were  given  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

.  .  .  seek  ye  diligently  and  teach  one  an- 
other words  of  wisdom;  yea,  seek  ye  out  of 
the  best  books  words  of  wisdom,  seek  learn- 
ing even  by  study  and  also  by  faith; 

Organize  yourselves;  prepare  every  need- 
ful thing,  and  establish  a  house,  even  a 
house  of  prayer,  a  house  of  fasting,  a  house 
of  faith,  a  house  of  learning,  a  house  of 
glory,  a  house  of  order,  a  house  of  God; 

Have  mercy,  O  Lord,  upon  all  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth;  have  mercy  upon  the 
rulers  of  our  land;  may  those  principles, 
which  were  so  honorably  and  nobly  de- 
fended, namely,  the  Constitution  of  our 
land,  by  our  fathers,  be  established  forever. 
(D.  &  C.  109:7-8,  54.) 

I  wonder  sometimes  if  in  reading  our 
sacred  books  we  enter  into  the  thoughts 
of  the  prophets  of  God;  and  into  their 
hearts.  Have  we  as  religious  and  moral 
men  sought  to  attain  the  perfect  life  by 
contemplation  and  work?  So  much 
might  be  said  about  our  meetings  in  the 


64 

Saturday,  October  3 

temples.  We  all  felt  the  goodness  and 
beauty  of  human  life.  We  felt  as  we 
have  never  felt  before  the  hunger  and 
labor,  love  and  death,  faith  and  work 
which  operated  to  produce  these  sacred 
buildings. 

When  we  think  of  the  Constitution 
of  our  land,  we  recall  many  historical 
statements  that  are  sacred  and  true. 
First,  the  words  of  the  French  writer, 
Michelet.  He  had  written  about  the 
terrible  days  of  the  French  Revolution 
when  he  writes  these  words: 

The  world  is  waiting  for  a  faith,  to  march 
forward  again  to  breathe  and  to  live.  But 
never  can  faith  have  a  beginning  in  deceit, 
cunning,  or  treaties  of  falsehood. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  according 
to  Washington  Irving,  Columbus  when 
he  set  foot  on  the  island  of  San  Sal- 
vador, uttered  the  following  prayer, 
which  has  been  translated  from  the 
Latin: 

O  God,  our  Father,  eternal  and  omnip- 
otent, Creator  of  heaven  and  earth  and 
sea,  we  glorify  Thy  holy  name,  praise  Thy 
majesty,  whom  we  serve  in  all  humility,  we 
give  unto  Thy  holy  protection  this  new 
part  of  the  world. 

Then  we  have  the  prayer  of  Pastor 
Robinson  as  he  blessed  the  Pilgrim 
fathers  when  they  left  in  the  Mayflower 
for  the  New  World. 

Brethren,  we  are  now  quickly  to  part 
from  one  another,  and  whether  I  may 
ever  live  to  see  your  face  on  earth  any- 
more, the  God  of  Heaven  only  knows;  but 
whether  the  Lord  hath  appointed  that  or 
not,  I  charge  you  before  God  and  His 
blessed  angels,  that  you  follow  me  no 
farther  than  you  have  seen  me  follow  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  If  God  reveal  anything 
to  you,  by  any  other  instrument  of  His,  be 
as  ready  to  receive  it,  as  ever  you  were  to 
receive  truth,  by  my  ministry;  for  I  am  fully 
persuaded,  I  am  very  confident  that  the  Lord 
has  more  truth  yet  to  break  forth  out  of  His 
holy  word.  For  my  part,  I  cannot  suffi- 
ciently bewail  the  condition  of  the  reformed 
churches,  who  are  come  to  a  period  in  re- 
ligion, and  will  go  at  present  no  further 
than  the  instruments  of  their  reformation. 
The  Lutherans  cannot  be  drawn  to  go  be- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

yond  what  Luther  saw;  whatever  part  of 
his  will  our  good  God  has  revealed  to  Cal- 
vin, they  will  rather  die  than  embrace  it, 
and  the  Calvinists,  you  see,  stick  fast, 
where  they  were  left  by  that  great  man  of 
God,  who  yet  saw  not  all  things.  This 
is  a  misery  much  to  be  lamented;  for 
though  they  were  burning  a  shining  light 
in  their  times,  yet  they  penetrated  not  into 
the  whole  counsel  of  God;  but  were  they 
now  living,  would  be  as  willing  to  embrace 
further  light  as  that  which  they  at  first 
received.  I  beseech  you  to  remember  it  as 
an  article  in  your  church  Covenant.  "That 
you  be  ready  to  receive  whatever  truth 
shall  be  made  known  to  you  from  the  written 
word  of  God."  But  I  must  herewithal  ex- 
hort you  to  take  heed  what  you  receive  as 
truth.  Examine  it,  consider  it,  and  com- 
pare it  with  other  scriptures  of  truth,  be- 
fore you  receive  it;  for  it  is  not  possible 
that  the  Christian  world  should  come  so 
lately  out  of  thick  anti-Christian  darkness, 
and  that  perfection  of  knowledge  should 
break  forth  at  once. 

To  be  called  to  the  field  as  a  mis- 
sionary is  an  honor  and  a  recognition 
of  a  person's  real  worth.  It  is  a  call 
to  labor  with  undying  zeal  to  awaken 
within  men  a  faith  in  the  living  God 
and  to  turn  to  him  with  a  repentant 
heart.  No  one  can  deny  the  force, 
the  beauty  of  the  passion  for  extending 
one's  own  belief  and  hopes  to  others, 
"for  imparting  to  them  the  comfort  of 
one's  own  salvation."  What  splendor 
of  life  is  that  of  Paul  the  Apostle,  who 
no  sooner  was  his  own  life  made  over, 
no  sooner  had  the  faith  and  the  hope 
of  a  new  life  taken  possession  of  him, 
than  he  was  overcome  with  the  desire 
to  disseminate  this  possession  to  all  the 
world  and  to  make  Jew  and  Gentile 
alike  see  and  glory  in  the  light  and 
splendor  of  the  Christian  truth.  In  our 
day,  since  the  restoration  of  the  gospel, 
we  know  the  hundreds,  yea,  thousands 
who  have  gone  into  the  remote  parts 
of  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel  and 
to  turn  men's  thoughts  to  their  God. 
This  was  even  true  long  before  there 
were  railroads  or  quick  and  safe  means 
of  travel  by  sea.  Missionaries  left  home 
and  friends  to  go  to  faroff  China  and 
India,  and  the  South  Seas,  to  say  noth- 
ing of  Europe  and  South  America.  They 


ELDER  LEVI  i 

faced  hardships  in  strange  lands,  and 
often  misery  for  the  sake  of  communi- 
cating the  Gospel  message.  Many  have 
given  their  lives  as  they  bore  testimony 
of  the  restored  word  of  God.  The 
splendor  of  their  spirits  and  the  grandeur 
of  their  achievements  are  known.  The 
stories  of  their  experiences  and  ac- 
complishments will  someday  become 
the  most  beautiful  epics  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  epics  that  will  thrill  the 
world  with  their  truth  and  beauty.  Let 
me  here  relate  a  story  of  the  long  ago: 
In  the  summer  of  1857,  my  father, 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Phillip  Margetts, 
and  David  Wilcken  were  called  to 
England  on  a  mission.  They  were  all 
of  the  same  age,  nineteen  years.  Con- 
structing a  handcart,  they  made  ready 
to  leave.  Their  first  objective  was  Coun- 
cil Bluffs,  just  across  the  Missouri  River 
from  Omaha.  From  there  they  would 
take  the  train  for  New  York,  where 
they  could  embark  on  a  sailing  vessel 
for  England.  One  night,  while  they 
were  sitting  around  a  wood  fire  on  the 
Platte  River,  singing  songs,  and  talking 
about  the  "folks  at  home,"  Brother  Mar- 
getts began  to  recite  some  of  the  fine 
lines  from  the  plays  of  Shakespeare, 
among  which  were  the  words  of 
Macbeth: 

Tomorrow,  and  tomorrow,  and  tomorrow 
Creeps  in  this  petty  pace  from  day  to  day 
To  the  last  syllable  of  recorded  time; 
And  all  our  yesterdays  have  lighted  fools 
The  way  to  dusty  death.    Out,  out,  brief 
candle! 

Life's  but  a  walking  shadow,  a  poor  player 
That  struts  and  frets  his  hour  upon  the 
stage 

And  then  is  heard  no  more. 

(Wm.  Shakespeare,  Macbeth,  Act  V.  Sc.  5.) 

"We  sat  deep  in  thought,"  said  my 
father,  "for  we  had  been  listening  to  a 
sage  of  history,  a  man  who  knew 
Shakespeare.  We  slept  under  the  stars 
that  night,  as  we  did  for  over  three 
months.  Every  night  we  studied  the 
words  of  Holy  Writ,  every  day  as  we 
pulled  the  handcart  over  the  trail  and 
through  the  rivers,  our  hearts  were 
swallowed  up  in  a  kind  of  glow  of  God's 


)GAR  YOUNG  65 

love  coming  down  as  a  constant  stream 
of  light." 

They  were  missionaries  of  the  Lord. 

In  the  days  of  Queen  Elizabeth  of 
England,  there  were  many  able  seamen 
who  manned  the  large  navy  which 
brought  England  to  the  height  of  her 
power  on  the  seas.  Among  the  noted 
commanders  of  the  fleet  was  Sir  Francis 
Drake,  who  sailed  up  the  Pacific  Coast 
as  far  as  the  present  state  of  Washington, 
and  then  went  on  around  the  world. 
He  was  the  first  Englishman  to  circum- 
navigate the  earth.  Standing  on  the 
deck  of  his  ship  one  day,  Drake  said 
to  his  men: 

Men  pass  away,  but  people  abide.  See 
that  ye  hold  fast  the  heritage  we  leave  you, 
yea,  and  teach  your  children  its  value,  that 
never  in  the  coming  centuries,  their  hearts 
may  fail  them,  or  their  hands  grow  weak. 
Hereto,  we  have  been  too  much  afraid. 
Henceforth,  we  will  fear  only  God. 

In  this  troubled  world  we  need  more 
and  more  the  principle  of  unity  amid 
all  the  marring  elements  of  human 
life.  We  must  in  our  work  have  a 
definite  purpose,  and  before  that  purpose 
can  be  well  established  in  our  hearts, 
we  must  see  it  related  to  the  very  pur- 
poses of  God.  Every  quorum  should 
have  an  ideal  which  is  well  defined 
and  which  invites  the  greatest  effort  on 
the  part  of  every  member  to  help  realize 
that  ideal.  The  ideal  is  to  bring  about 
a  brotherhood  within  the  quorum,  a 
brotherhood  so  lasting  that  nothing  can 
break  it.  Certainly  no  outside  power 
can.  This  brotherhood  will  be  ex- 
pressed in  their  thoughts  and  interest 
in  one  another.  The  members  touch 
one  another  by  doing  good,  by  kindness, 
by  philanthropy — something  more  than 
the  mere  clasp  of  hands  and  inter- 
change of  idle  words.  It  is  the  delight 
of  diffusing  something  of  the  spirit  of 
gentility  and  graciousness.  In  all  such 
expressions  of  good-will  and  respect, 
the  grace  of  the  act  depends  as  much  on 
the  manner  of  it,  as  on  the  act  itself. 

One  of  the  essential  things  with  Jesus 
Christ  was  the  training  of  his  disciples 
to  have  faith  in  God.   "...  ye  believe 


66 

Saturday,  October  3 

in  God,  believe  also  in  me."  (John 
14:1.)  His  disciples  went  into  the  world 
to  preach  the  gospel.  I  have  given  you 
an  example  of  missionary  zeal.  And 
now  one  of  ancient  times:  Paul,  the 
Apostle,  had  become  one  of  the  disciples 
of  the  Lord.  He  went  about  preaching 
the  gospel  "with  inspired  eloquence  and 
logic."  He  went  to  Athens.  They  took 
him  to  the  Areopagus,  saying:  "...  thou 
bringest  certain  strange  things  to  our 
ears."  (Acts  17:20.)  You  read  Paul's 
discourse  for  yourselves.  "It  is  the  short- 
est important  speech  ever  made,  except- 
ing only  Lincoln's  undying  Gettysburg 
speech  address.  In  less  than  one  hun- 
dred and  fifty  words  he  put  the  argu- 
ment for  and  assertion  of  the  living 
God  of  salvation  and  the  resurrection 
of  the  dead.  In  doing  this  he  even 
included  a  quotation  from  the  Greek 
poets."  He  had  planted  the  seed.  He 
had  aroused  interest. 

As  missionaries,  we  should  find  the 
good  in  people.  We  should  judge  all 
people  not  by  their  mistakes  but  by  the 
abundance  of  their  powers.  Our  work 
as  teachers  is  based  on  love,  and  if  we 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

have  the  love  of  our  listeners,  we  must 
see  to  it  that  their  merits  are  under- 
stood, rather  than  their  faults  found 
out. 

Let  us  keep  in  mind  the  beautiful 
words  of  the  Chinese  Confucius,  ages 
before  Christ: 

Those  who  know  the  truth  are  not  equal 
to  those  who  love  it;  and  they  who  love  it 
are  not  equal  to  those  who  live  it. 

I  pray  that  we  may  all  come  to  a 
deeper  understanding  of  the  gospel, 
that  we  may  live  as  God  would  have  us 
live.  Amen. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is 
Truth?" 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us.  He  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Elder  Richard  P.  Condie  led  the  Con- 
gregation and  Choir  in  that  song. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger  and 
thirst  after  righteousness:  for  they  shall  be 
filled.  (Matt.  5:6.) 

In  the  opening  remarks  of  our  dear 
President  McKay  at  the  beginning 
of  this  conference  he  stated  that  he 
hoped  our  souls  might  be  uplifted  and 
inspired.  I  am  sure  you  can  bear  wit- 
ness with  me  that  our  heavenly  Father 
has  literally  blessed  us,  and  our  souls 
have  been  uplifted  because  we  have  been 
inspired  by  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

I  have  noted  without  exception  that 
each  who  has  occupied  this  position 
regardless  of  his  calling  in  the  Church, 
regardless  of  his  standing  in  the  com- 
munity or  the  nation,  before  taking 
these  responsible  Church  positions,  has 
invoked  the  blessings  of  our  heavenly 
Father  upon  him  that  he  might  be  able 


to  speak  under  the  inspiration  of  the 
Spirit.  I  realize  as  I  stand  before  you 
this  afternoon  that  I  must  depend  upon 
the  inspiration  of  my  heavenly  Father 
through  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  for,  to 
teach  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  can  be 
done  not  by  the  wisdom  of  men,  but 
only  by  the  power  of  God. 

Much  has  been  said  here  today  and 
yesterday  in  these  conference  sessions 
regarding  the  missionary  program  of  the 
Church.  I  would  feel  most  ungrateful 
if  I  did  not  take  just  a  moment  to  pay 
tribute  to  a  great  missionary  who  is 
absent  from  us  today,  but  who  was  with 
us  here  six  months  ago  occupying  a  seat 
on  the  row  that  I  am  privileged  to  oc- 
cupy— Elder  Stayner  Richards. 

He  in  very  deed  typified  the  true  mis- 
sionary spirit  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 


ELDER  ]OH 

Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  feel 
sure  that  he  has  touched  the  hearts  of 
thousands  in  the  British  Isles  or 
wherever  he  has  labored  to  spread  truth 
and  righteousness,  exercising  his  energy 
and  talent  in  building  up  the  kingdom  of 
God. 

So,  I  pay  tribute  to  his  memory  to- 
day. It  was  my  privilege  to  labor  with 
him  for  about  fourteen  years  in  the 
Highland  Stake,  the  stake  in  which  I 
now  reside. 

Going  back  a  few  years,  a  prophet  of 
God,  Brigham  Young,  declared: 

.  .  .  there  is  neither  man  or  woman  in  this 
Church  who  is  not  on  a  mission.  That 
mission  will  last  as  long  as  they  live,  and 
it  is  to  do  good,  to  promote  righteousness, 
to  teach  the  principles  of  truth,  and  to 
prevail  upon  themselves  and  everybody 
around  them  to  live  those  principles  that 
they  may  obtain  eternal  life.  (Discourses  of 
Brigham  Young,  1943  ed.,  p.  322.) 

That  is  the  true  missionary  spirit. 
That  was  the  word  of  a  prophet  of 
God  many  years  ago.  The  same  teach- 
ing goes  forth  from  this  pulpit  today: 
that  each  individual  who  has  member- 
ship in  this,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  is  on  a  mission, 
and  that  mission  is  to  teach  first,  by  ex- 
ample, and  second,  by  precept,  the  truths 
of  this  gospel,  which  is  the  gospel  of 
salvation  and  exaltation  into  the  pres- 
ence of  our  heavenly  Father  and  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ. 

I  thrill  as  I  have  the  privilege  of  tour- 
ing missions  and  visiting  in  the  stakes 
and  mingling  with  the  stake  missionary 
groups  to  catch  the  spirit  of  those  who 
are  specifically  called  to  do  missionary 
work. 

As  I  toured  the  Western  Canadian 
Mission  just  a  few  months  ago,  I  heard 
many  heartwarming  missionary  stories. 
One  thrilling  story  I  should  like  to 
share  with  you.  I  would  like  to  take 
you  with  me  for  a  moment  or  two  to  a 
concentration  camp  in  France,  in  which 
are  incarcerated  two  German  prisoners, 
young  men  who  never  had  become  ac- 
quainted with  each  other  until  they  were 
in  this  camp. 


LONGDEN  67 

One  of  them  was  utilizing  his  time 
to  study  the  word  of  the  Lord  that  he 
might  hold  fast  to  the  testimony  which 
he  had.  This  attracted  the  attention 
of  the  other  German  prisoner,  who 
asked  what  he  was  so  interested  in. 
The  reply  came  that  he  was  reading 
The  Voice  of  Warning.  I  am  sure  that 
rings  a  familiar  note  to  many  mission- 
aries assembled  today  and  who  might 
be  listening  on  television  and  the  radio. 

So,  a  gospel  conversation  ensued. 
Then  this  young  man  became  interested, 
and  many  conversations  thereafter  fol- 
lowed. The  war  was  over.  They  were 
released.  The  one  returned  to  his  lo- 
cality in  Germany,  where  he  further 
investigated  this  thing  he  had  heard 
in  a  French  concentration  camp.  Then 
he  applied  for  baptism.  He  was  bap- 
tized, and  after  a  few  months  was  called 
by  President  Wunderlich  to  go  on  a 
mission  for  the  Church.  The  young 
convert  said,  "I  have  only  twelve  marks," 
but  President  Wunderlich,  because  he 
had  the  priesthood  of  God,  because  he 
could  speak  with  that  power  and  au- 
thority which  comes  to  those  who  are 
truly  called  to  serve  the  Lord,  made  a 
promise  to  that  young  man  if  he  would 
accept  the  call  and  respond  to  it  that 
the  Lord  would  provide  a  way. 

So  the  young  man,  in  blind  faith, 
believing,  as  we  have  heard  from  this 
pulpit  today,  accepted  the  call  and  filled 
his  mission.  It  was  my  privilege  to 
interview  him  while  he  was  doing  stake 
missionary  work  in  the  city  of  Ed- 
monton, Canada.  He  had  migrated 
from  Germany  and  is  now  living  in 
Canada. 

We  all  have  a  zone  of  influence,  my 
brothers  and  sisters.  I  should  like  to 
ask  the  question  here  today,  "When 
did  you  last  have  a  gospel  conversation 
with  someone  who  does  not  claim  mem- 
bership in  the  Church?" 

Well,  you  do  not  have  to  answer  it, 
only  in  your  own  minds.  I  humbly 
pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will 
take  hold  of  us,  that  we  will  exercise 
our  rightful  influence  to  teach  the  prin- 
ciples of  salvation  and  exaltation  to  our 
heavenly  Father's  children. 


68  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  3 

I  thrill  as  I  see  someone  here  in  the 
audience  today  who  is  not  ashamed  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  After  having 
filled  a  mission  in  the  Southern  States 
for  this  great  Church  before  the  turn  of 
the  century,  he  decided  he  wanted 
to  follow  further  his  education  in  elec- 
trical engineering,  so  he  selected  that 
great  University  of  Cornell.  One  Sun- 
day each  student  was  to  have  the  op- 
portunity and  privilege  of  filing  past 
the  rostrum  and  shaking  hands  with 
the  first  president  of  Cornell,  Andrew 
White,  introducing  himself  and  making 
known  where  he  was  from.  When  it 
came  this  young  man's  turn,  he  said, 
"Thomas  E.  Yates  from  Scipio,  Utah." 
Immediately  Andrew  White  said,  "Are 
you  a  Mormon?" 

Brother  Yates  did  not  flinch  because 
he  was  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.   He  said,  "Yes,  sir,  I  am." 

Then  Andrew  White  asked  for 
an  interview  the  following  Sunday. 
Brother  Yates  said  that  week  seemed 
mighty  long  because  he  realized  the 
persecution  that  had  been  sustained  by 
the  missionaries,  even  while  he  was  in 
the  Southern  States. 

But  the  time  passed,  and  he  was 
ushered  into  the  study  of  Andrew  White. 
There  it  was  revealed  to  him  just  why 
he  had  been  invited  for  this  interview. 

Andrew  White  told  him,  on  one  occa- 
sion while  he  was  a  special  representa- 
tive to  the  Russian  government  he  had 
become  very  friendly  with  Count  Leo 
Tolstoi,  the  great  Russian  philanthropist 
and  writer.  On  one  occasion  as  he 
called  at  the  home  of  Tolstoi  he  was 
told  by  the  servant  that  Tolstoi  was  out 
in  the  fields  plowing,  and  if  he  wanted 
to  see  him  he  would  have  to  go  there, 
which  he  did. 

As  he  met  Tolstoi  there  was  the  usual 
friendly  salutation,  and  then  Tolstoi 
said,  "If  you  want  to  converse  with  me, 
you  will  have  to  come  along  while  I 
finish  my  plowing." 

This  he  did,  and  they  conversed  about 
many  things.  After  a  discussion  on 
religion  Tolstoi  said  to  Andrew  White, 
"But  what  about  your  American  re- 
ligion?" 


Second  Day 

Andrew  White  said,  "We  do  not  have 
a  state  church  in  America.  People  are 
allowed  to  worship  God  according  to 
the  dictates  of  their  own  conscience." 

Tolstoi  said,  "I  know  all  that.  I 
know  that  the  Catholic  Church  orig- 
inated in  Rome.  I  know  that  the 
Lutheran  Church  originated  in  Ger- 
many, that  the  Episcopal  Church 
orginated  in  England,  but  I  want  to 
know  something  about  your  American 
religion,  commonly  called  the  Mormon 
Church." 

Andrew  White  said,  "I'll  have  to  ad- 
mit that  I  know  very  little  about  the 
Mormon  people,  other  than  that  they 
are  a  superstitious  people  and  that  they 
are  peculiar." 

Then  Tolstoi  decided  he  would  give 
Andrew  White,  great  as  he  was,  a  re- 
buke, and  so  as  not  to  lose  the  signifi- 
cance of  this  rebuke,  I  should  like  to 
read  it  to  you. 

"Then  Count  Leo  Tolstoi,  in  his 
honest  and  stern  but  lovable  manner, 
rebuked  the  ambassador:  'Dr.  White,  I 
am  greatly  surprised  and  disappointed 
that  a  man  of  your  great  learning  and 
position  should  be  so  ignorant  on  this 
important  subject.  The  Mormon  people 
teach  the  American  religion:  their  princi- 
ples teach  the  people  not  only  of  heaven 
and  its  attendant  glories,  but  how  to 
live  so  that  their  social  and  economic 
relations  with  each  other  are  placed 
on  a  sound  basis.  If  the  people  follow 
the  teachings  of  this  Church — nothing 
can  stop  their  progress — it  will  be 
limitless. 

"  'There  have  been  great  movements 
started  in  the  past,  but  they  have  died 
or  been  modified  before  they  reached 
maturity.  If  Mormonism  is  able  to 
endure,  unmodified,  until  it  reaches  the 
third  and  fourth  generations,  it  is  des- 
tined to  become  the  greatest  power  the 
world  has  ever  known.' " 

I  believe  that,  as  I  stand  before  you 
today  and  testify  that  this  thing 
called  Mormonism  has  continued  down 
through  the  stream  of  time  for  123 
years,  unchanged,  unmodified,  and  that 
it  is  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


69 


Yes,  blessed  are  they  who  hunger  and 
thirst  after  righteousness,  and  brothers 
and  sisters,  I  believe  that  men  are  thirst- 
ing and  hungering  for  righteousness  in 
the  world  today. 

It  is  our  great  responsibility,  as  has 
been  outlined  here,  to  be  the  humble 
servants  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in 
carrying  this  glorious  message  to  those 
individuals. 

May  God  bless  us  with  this  vision, 
and  the  spirit  of  missionary  work,  as  I 


bear  witness  that  these  things  are  true, 
in  the  name  of  our  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  all  humility,  my  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, I  approach  this  solemn  and 
sacred  responsibility  this  afternoon.  I 
feel  my  dependence  upon  the  Lord  for 
his  blessings  and  strength  as  I  speak 
to  you. 

When  a  scientist  makes  a  great  dis- 
covery, it  is  not  long  before  some  other 
scientist  makes  the  same  discovery.  The 
Lord  has  released  that  knowledge  in  the 
earth.  It  is  not  confined  to  one  or  two 
but  to  all  who  search  for  it.  As  the 
brethren  of  the  General  Authorities  seek 
the  Spirit  for  inspiration  in  the  prepara- 
tion of  conference  talks,  and  drawing 
from  the  same  Spirit,  there  is  a  con- 
stant theme  through  the  talks  of  each, 
for  the  Spirit  has  influenced  them  in 
that  direction. 

Recently  in  the  solemn  assembly  held 
in  the  Logan  Temple,  President  David 
O.  McKay  said,  "The  Lord  is  impress- 
ing his  servants  to  extend  and  intensify 
the  work  of  his  Church." 

Stake  presidents  and  bishops,  presi- 
dents of  priesthood  quorums,  presidents 
and  superintendents  of  auxiliaries  know 
this  statement  to  be  true.  There  has 
been  increased  activity  among  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  the  senior  members 
of  that  priesthood,  the  girls'  program, 
the  Relief  Society  as  it  works  with  in- 
active women,  the  missionary  program 
now  at  home  as  well  as  abroad,  the 
great  welfare  program  of  the  Church, 
and  many  other  activities  designed  to 


build  faith  and  testimonies  in  the  hearts 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  tempo  and  the  good  feeling  of 
this  upsurge  in  activity  and  devotion 
must  inspire  and  find  expression  in  the 
lives  of  all  Church  members,  not  just 
alone  in  its  leaders.  As  leaders  it  seems 
to  me  necessary  that  we  let  information 
go  on  down  to  the  rank  and  file  of  our 
Church  membership  in  order  that  they 
might  have  and  enjoy  the  same  counsel 
and  direction  that  we  receive.  Where 
this  condition  is  true,  and  our  people 
understand,  it  wipes  out  any  prejudice, 
resentment,  or  rebellion  that  might  be 
in  their  hearts,  and  also  they  will  sup- 
port and  work  diligently  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  the  Lord's  great  pur- 
poses in  the  earth. 

The  Lord  has  not  chosen  us  to  fail 
in  this  work  of  his  kingdom,  but  to 
succeed.  We  have  no  reason  to  fail. 
This  is  the  Lord's  work.  He  is  inspir- 
ing and  revealing  unto  those  who  have 
been  properly  called  his  mind  and  his 
will.  This  guiding  force  is  present  in 
the  affairs  of  his  kingdom  today.  With- 
out this  holy  influence  we  would  be 
groping  in  spiritual  darkness. 

In  all  ages  of  the  world,  the  divinely 
appointed  servants  of  God  have  en- 
treated the  people  to  love  the  Lord 
and  to  keep  his  commandments.  Today 
is  no  exception  in  that  respect.  We  are 
called  to  be  a  light  to  the  world.  The 
Lord  has  appointed  us  to  be  that  light 


70  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  3 

because  we  have  the  truth  of  the  gospel 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Savior  said,  "...  A  city  that  is 
set  on  an  hill  cannot  be  hid."  (Matt. 
5:14.)  Nor  can  we  be  hid  from  the 
world  here  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains, 
for  our  works  and  our  deeds  go  out  from 
this  place. 

Even  from  the  beginning  the  Lord 
has  said  that  the  way  is  straight  and 
narrow  that  leadeth  unto  life.  To  the 
Prophet  in  our  day  those  words  have 
been  repeated,  and  someone  has  wisely 
quipped,  "The  reason  the  way  is  so 
straight  and  narrow  is  because  there 
are  so  few  who  enter  that  way."  Should 
more  enter,  by  yielding  obedience  to 
the  laws  and  the  commandments  of  the 
gospel  plan,  then  it  would  become  wider, 
and  I  am  sure  God  would  be  happier  as 
a  result  of  it. 

Praise  has  been  given  in  this  confer- 
ence to  the  First  Presidency.  With  all 
my  heart  I  support  the  sentiments  ex- 
pressed by  the  brethren.  It  is  a  great 
privilege  and  joy  to  be  associated  with 
the  Presidency,  to  sit  in  their  councils, 
and  to  receive  their  instructions.  A 
wish  of  President  McKay's  is  almost  a 
command  to  us  who  are  associated  with 
him. 

Keeping  in  mind  the  great  spiritual 
strength  of  these  brethren  of  the  First 
Presidency,  I  would  like  to  say  to  you, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  in  Presi- 
dent McKay  we  have  a  great  and  in- 
spired leader.  He  sets  a  terrific  pace 
at  his  age,  that  some  of  us  younger 
men  find  difficult  to  follow.  His  hours 
are  long.  He  comes  early  to  the  office. 
He  goes  late.  He  responds  to  the  wish 
and  the  will  of  the  people,  doing  all 
things,  even  beyond  his  physical  strength 
to  do,  to  bless  the  people  of  the  Church. 
He  sets  a  marvelous  example  of  devo- 
tion, love,  faith,  and  good  will. 

In  these  days  of  turmoil  and  distress, 
as  God's  chosen  servant,  under  the  in- 
spiration of  his  divine  calling,  he  is 
pointing  the  way,  it  seems  to  me,  with 
clarity  and  understanding  to  the  peo- 
ple of  the  Church. 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  my  brothers 


Second  Day 

and  sisters,  that  God  sustains  him,  and 
no  one  else  in  the  world  today  but 
him,  because  he  has  the  holy  calling 
of  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator,  repre- 
senting the  Lord  upon  the  earth  in 
our  time.  He  only  has  the  right  to 
revelation  for  the  people  of  the  Church, 
and  if  all  people  would  understand  that, 
they  would  not  be  tossed  about  by 
those  who  would  seek  to  divert  their 
minds  from  the  Church  and  its  glorious 
principles,  and  I  am  sure  they  would 
be  more  happy  and  contented  than  they 
now  are. 

It  is  a  great  and  inspiring  moment  in 
our  council  to  hear  President  McKay 
say,  "Brethren,  the  Lord  has  spoken. 
His  will  has  been  done."  It  is  a  great 
moment,  a  thrilling  moment,  and  you 
have  the  sure  feeling  that  what  he  has 
said  or  designated  is  true,  and  of  God. 

Now,  President  McKay  does  not  re- 
quire any  defense.  I  do  not  need  to 
say  these  words  in  defense  of  him. 
His  life,  his  works,  his  faith,  his  love 
and  devotion  are  unquestioned  and 
exemplary,  not  only  to  the  people  of 
this  Church  but  also  to  all  the  world, 
but  if  the  people  of  the  Church  under- 
stand the  calling  and  position  of  the 
chosen  and  anointed  prophet  of  God, 
they  will  be  fortified  against  false 
teachers  and  anti-Christs,  and  we  do 
have  them  among  us. 

When  the  brethren  of  Nephi  did  not 
understand  the  vision  of  their  father 
Lehi,  they  came  to  Nephi,  their  younger 
brother,  for  an  explanation  of  that  vi- 
sion. He  asked  of  them,  as  I  would  ask 
of  you, 

Have  ye  inquired  of  the  Lord? 

They  said  unto  Nephi, 

We  have  not  for  the  Lord  maketh  no 
such  thing  known  unto  us.  (See  1  Ne. 
15:8-9.) 

Now  my  brothers  and  sisters,  if  there 
are  any  doubts  in  your  hearts  about 
your  leaders  or  this  Church  being  true, 
again  I  would  ask  of  you,  "Have  ye  in- 
quired of  the  Lord?"  I  am  sure  if  you 
ask  sincerely  and  with  real  intent  that 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


71 


the  Lord  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it 
unto  you.  There  will  no  longer  be  any 
doubt,  for  God  can  bear  you  that  wit- 
ness through  the  Holy  Ghost,  which 
power  all  of  us  should  seek. 

Many  of  the  signs  spoken  of  by  the 
prophets  to  precede  the  second  coming 
of  Christ  are  now  being  fulfilled  before 
us.  They  are  easily  recognizable,  and 
they  remind  us  of  the  parable  of  the 
ten  virgins,  the  five  who  were  wise,  and 
the  five  who  were  foolish.  Those  who 
were  foolish  were  not  prepared  when 
the  bridegroom  came,  and  as  they  went 
out  to  prepare  themselves,  the  doors 
were  closed  against  them,  and  they 
could  not  gain  admittance. 

You  and  I  need  to  be  prepared.  We 
know  not  the  day  nor  the  hour  in 
which  the  Son  of  Man  shall  come. 
That  day  we  must  be  prepared  for. 

Alma,  as  he  wrote  to  the  people  of 
Gideon,  complimenting  them  for  their 
faithfulness  said  of  the  Savior, 

And  he  doth  not  dwell  in  unholy  tem- 
ples; neither  can  filthiness  or  anything 
which  is  unclean  be  received  into  the 
kingdom  of  God;  therefore  I  say  unto  you 
the  time  shall  come,  yea,  and  it  shall  be 
at  the  last  day,  that  he  who  is  filthy  shall 
remain  in  his  filthiness.  (Alma  7:21.) 

Brothers  and  sisters,  worthiness  is  be- 
coming to  the  Saints  of  the  living  God. 
The  Lord  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants counseled,  through  the  Prophet, 
the  people  of  his  Church  to  "practise 
virtue  and  holiness  before  me."  (38:24.) 
If  they  would  do  so,  walking  in  all 
worthiness  before  the  Lord,  there  would 
come  great  strength  and  power  to  his 
work  among  the  children  of  men. 

For  baptism,  we  expect  every  convert 
to  repent  truly  and  forsake  all  his  sins 
before  we  approve  receiving  him  into  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  When  we  invite 
people  into  the  Church,  we  must  be  sure 
our  lives  are  worthy  to  make  attractive 
our  invitation.  I  know  there  are  those 
desiring  to  come  into  the  Church  who 
look  at  Church  members  and  wonder 
why  they  fail  to  keep  the  command- 
ments when  they  themselves  are  re- 
quired to   do   so   before  the  sacred 


ordinance  of  baptism  can  be  performed. 
It  is  an  individual  responsibility.  Surely 
God  will  hold  accountable  those  who 
violate  the  sacred  ordinances  and  cove- 
nants of  his  kingdom.  He  requires  of 
all  who  come  into  his  Church  to  repent 
of  all  their  sins. 

I  am  wondering,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  if  we  should  not  approach 
every  sacred  ordinance  or  rite  of  the 
gospel  with  complete  worthiness.  I 
also  wonder  if  some  of  the  mistakes  peo- 
ple make  are  not  because  through  in- 
activity or  unworthily  participating  in 
sacred  and  holy  ordinances,  they  do  not 
renew  nor  keep  their  covenants,  obliga- 
tions, and  testimonies  in  force. 

We  must  always  see  and  understand 
the  great  spiritual  forces  that  underlie 
the  mechanics  of  all  gospel  ordinances. 
The  outward  appearance  of  these  ordi- 
nances is  but  a  symbol  of  their  eternal 
significance.  This  we  should  always 
realize,  and  again  we  must  always  keep 
in  force  our  covenants  and  obligations 
with  our  God.  That  opportunity  is 
afforded  us  as  we  attend  the  sacrament 
meetings  and  partake  of  the  holy  sacra- 
ment. 

It  has  been  said,  that  a  sacrament  is 
a  sacred,  binding  oath  of  allegiance  to 
obey  one's  leader  and  not  desert  his 
standard.  We  find  that  true  in  the 
sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper.  The 
Lord  said  to  the  Nephites  on  this 
continent  emphasizing  the  sacredness 
of  this  holy  ordinance, 

...  ye  shall  not  suffer  anyone  knowingly 
to  partake  of  my  flesh  and  blood  un- 
worthily, when  ye  shall  minister  it.  (3  Ne. 
18:28.) 

He  goes  on  to  say  the  unworthy  shall 
be  forbidden  to  partake,  otherwise  they 
shall  eat  and  drink  damnation  to  their 
souls.  The  Lord  has  said  to  us  in  our 
day,  "...  if  any  have  trespassed,  let 
him  not  partake  until  he  makes  recon- 
ciliation." (D.  &  C.  46:4.) 

The  Apostle  Paul  said  to  the 
Corinthian  Saints: 

Wherefore  whosoever  shall  eat  this  bread, 
and  drink  this  cup  of  the  Lord,  unworthily, 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

shall  be  guilty  of  the  body  and  blood  of  the 
Lord. 

But  let  a  man  examine  himself,  and  so 
let  him  eat  of  that  bread,  and  drink  of  that 
cup. 

For  he  that  eateth  and  drinketh  unworth- 
ily, eateth  and  drinketh  damnation  to  him- 
self, not  discerning  the  Lord's  body. 

For  this  cause  many  are  weak  and  sickly 
among  you,  and  many  sleep.  (I  Cor.  11:27- 
30.) 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  what  is 
true  of  worthiness  in  partaking  of  the 
sacrament,  it  seems  to  me,  applies  to 
all  the  sacred  ordinances  of  the  gospel 
plan,  and  the  other  sacred  privileges 
available  to  us  in  this  great  Church 
of  ours. 

It  applies  to  advancement  in  the 
priesthood,  for  the  receiving  of  our 
patriarchal  blessings,  attendance  in  holy 
temples  for  our  sacred  endowments  and 
sealings.  The  great  challenge  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  is  to  live  faith- 
fully, to  be  worthy,  to  live  exemplary 
lives,  and  thus  obtain  the  blessings  of 
God,  that  they  might  accomplish  the 
great  destiny  of  this  Church  and  enjoy, 
as  President  McKay  said  yesterday, 
"spiritual  companionship  with  our 
eternal  Father." 

Brigham  Young  said,  "The  man  or 
woman  who  lives  worthily  is  now  in  a 
state  of  salvation."  The  greatest  wealth 
that  can  be  given  us,  any  of  us,  is 
eternal  life  in  the  presence  of  God,  our 
Father.  There  are  no  riches  in  all  the 
world  that  compare  to  the  riches  of 
eternity  that  God  has  placed  in  the  way 
of  us  all. 

There  are  certain  conditions;  there  are 
certain  laws;  there  are  certain  standards 
and  ideals;  but  if  these  are  observed, 
they  will  lead  to  a  state  of  glory  and 
exaltation.  May  God  help  us  to  be 
faithful  and  worthy  in  all  things,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking. 

We  express  appreciation  at  this  time 
for  the  inspirational  singing  rendered 


Second  Day 

by  the  Swiss-German  Choir  this  morn- 
ing and  this  afternoon.  We  thank  you 
Brother  Rimmasch,  and  all  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Choir  for  the  excellent,  in- 
spirational service  you  have  rendered. 
Each  number  has  been  characterized  by 
a  soulful  expression  which  radiates  di- 
rectly from  your  hearts,  and  whenever 
music  is  thus  rendered  it  carries  the 
message  which  our  hymns  should  carry. 

In  behalf  of  the  congregation  assem- 
bled and  listening  in  we  extend  to  them 
our  hearty  appreciation  and  thanks. 

The  Choir  will  sing  "The  Lord's 
Prayer,"  and  the  closing  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Harold  S.  Snow,  presi- 
dent of  the  St.  George  Temple,  after 
which  this  conference  will  be  adjourned 
until  7  o'clock  this  evening  when  a  gen- 
eral meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Church  will  be  held  in  the  Tabernacle. 

Only  those  holding  the  Priesthood  are 
invited  to  be  present.  Persons  not 
holding  the  Priesthood  will  kindly  re- 
frain from  attempting  to  enter  the 
building,  and  that  applies  to  those  who 
have  been  excommunicated,  who  some- 
times refuse  to  accept  the  excommuni- 
cation. 

That  session  will  not  be  broadcast. 
Overflow  meetings  will  be  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall.  At 
both  places,  we  are  informed,  there  will 
be  television. 

The  session  at  10  o'clock  Sunday 
morning  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL 
over  radio  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Ari- 
zona, Nevada,  Colorado,  California, 
Oregon,  Washington,  and  by  television 
in  Utah,  California,  Oregon,  and  Wash- 
ington. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  will 
be  from  8  o'clock  to  8:30  tomorrow 
morning.  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  the 
speaker.  Those  desiring  to  attend  this 
broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  by  7:50 
a.m.  The  Tabernacle  Choir  Broadcast 
will  be  from  9  o'clock  to  9:30  tomorrow 
morning.  Those  who  desire  to  attend 
this  broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats 
by  8:50  a.m.,  ten  minutes  before  the 
broadcast  begins. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


73 


It  is  requested  that  the  audience,  dur- 
ing the  broadcasts,  refrain  from  making 
any  noise.  Large  crowds  will  undoubt- 
edly be  waiting  outside  the  closed  doors. 
Please  note  this,  because  the  Choir  oc- 
cupies a  few  moments  in  practice  before 
the  doors  are  opened,  and  there  is 
usually  a  rush  by  those  outside  to  get 
good  seats. 

Now  we  suggest  most  earnestly  that 
those  thus  standing  waiting  for  entrance 
show  courtesy,  one  to  another.  Be  con- 
siderate of  others  in  the  crowd. 

Avoid  pushing  or  crowding,  will  you 
please.  Let  us  remember  to  be  courteous 
and  considerate  to  others  who  are  also 
standing.  Courtesy  is  a  great  virtue. 
Let  us  show  it  one  to  another,  and 


especially  to  our  visitors  who  are  within 
the  city's  gates. 

The  regular  session  of  the  Confer- 
ence will  begin  at  10  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning. 

We  shall  now  have  "The  Lord's 
Prayer,"  by  the  Choir,  and  after  the 
benediction  by  Elder  Snow,  this  Con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  to- 
morrow morning  at  10  o'clock. 


The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Our 
Father  Which  Art  in  Heaven,"  (Gates). 

Elder  Harold  S.  Snow,  President  of 
the  St.  George  Temple,  offered  the  clos- 
ing prayer. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7:00  P.M.,  Saturday,  October  3. 

President  McKay  presided  at  this  meet- 
ing and  conducted  the  services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
was  present  at  this  meeting  and  rendered 
sacred  selections. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  a  minute  yet,  but  I  think 
we  might  as  well  begin.  Every  seat 
is  taken. 

This  is  the  fifth  session  of  the  124th 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church. 
As  previously  announced  we  have  over- 
flow meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and 
in  Barratt  Hall;  we  have  a  meeting  in 
the  Field  House  in  Provo  by  direct  wire, 
probably  between  1500 — President  Wilk- 
inson says  there  may  be  2,000  assembled 
there  tonight.  We  also  have  a  direct 
wire  to  the  Institute  in  Logan.  It  is 
estimated  that  between  800  and  1,000 
men  of  the  Priesthood  will  listen  in  to 
the  proceedings  by  direct  wire  from  this 
meeting. 

We  have  just  had  word  that  we  can 
accommodate  from  300  to  400  at  the 
KSL-TV   studios   on   Motor  Avenue. 


Television  may  be  shown  there,  so  if 
there  be  any  who  cannot  get  access  to 
the  three  buildings,  we  are  in,  the 
Tabernacle,  the  Assembly  Hall,  or  Bar- 
ratt Hall,  you  may  find  seats  at  the 
Motor  Avenue  studio  and  see  television. 

This  service  will  be  broadcast,  also, 
on  the  grounds  where  there  are  several 
hundred  already  assembled. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall  as  director,  and  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  by  the  Men's  Chorus 
singing,  "Jesus,  Joy  of  Man's  Desiring." 

After  the  singing,  President  Robert  I. 
Burton,  in  the  Presidency  of  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple,  will  offer  the  invocation. 


The  opening  selection  which  was 
sung  by  the  Chorus  was  "Jesu,  Joy  of 
Man's  Desiring." 

Elder  Robert  I.  Burton  of  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple  Presidency  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  now  sing,  "I  Need  Thee 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

Every  Hour,"  directed  by  Elder  Corn- 
wall. 

Our  first  speaker  this  evening,  will 
be  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen,  of  the  Coun- 


Second  Day 

cil  of  the  Twelve,  following  the  sing- 
ing. 

The  Men's  Chorus  then  sang  the 
hymn,  "I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour." 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Brethren:  My  heart  surely  echoes 
that  beautiful  song  which  has  just 
been  rendered  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour."  It  was  the  favorite  song  of  our 
recent  President  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  President  George  F.  Richards. 
It  was  also  a  favorite  of  our  beloved 
Albert  E.  Bowen  who  is  no  longer  with 
us.  It  brought  many  memories  to  me 
as  I  listened  to  this  wonderful  chorus 
sing  that  song.  I  have  long  since  learned 
that  without  the  help  of  the  Lord  I  can 
do  nothing,  and  I  earnestly  pray  that 
he  will  be  with  me  here  tonight. 

I  would  like  to  read  to  you  two  para- 
bles, one  from  the  15th  chapter  of  Luke, 
and  the  other  from  the  101st  section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

And  he  spake  this  parable  unto  them, 
saying, 

What  man  of  you,  having  an  hundred 
sheep,  if  he  lose  one  of  them,  doth  not 
leave  the  ninety  and  nine  in  the  wilder- 
ness, and  go  after  that  which  is  lost,  until 
he  find  it? 

And  when  he  hath  found  it,  he  layeth 
it  on  his  shoulders,  rejoicing. 

And  when  he  cometh  home,  he  calleth 
together  his  friends  and  neighbours,  saying 
unto  them,  Rejoice  with  me;  for  I  have 
found  my  sheep  which  was  lost.  (Luke 
15:3-6.) 

I  read  this  to  you  to  remind  you  of 
the  fact  that  the  Savior  expects  that 
we  will  participate  in  a  rescue  opera- 
tion, if  I  may  use  that  expression,  a 
work  whereby  we  will  seek  after  those 
of  our  members  who  have  slipped  away 
from  us,  and  bring  them  back  to  the 
fold. 

Then  he  also  instituted  a  work  of  pre- 
vention, and  I  would  like  to  read  to  you 


the  beautiful  parable  that  illustrates 
that  great  work  whereby  we  are  ex- 
pected to  take  preventive  measures  to 
keep  the  enemy  from   invading  our 


A  certain  nobleman  had  a  spot  of  land, 
very  choice;  and  he  said  unto  his  servants: 
Go  ye  unto  my  vineyard,  even  upon  this 
very  choice  piece  of  land,  and  plant  twelve 
olive-trees; 

And  set  watchmen  round  about  them, 
and  build  a  tower,  that  one  may  overlook 
the  land  round  about,  to  be  a  watchman 
upon  the  tower,  that  mine  olive-trees  may 
not  be  broken  down  when  the  enemy  shall 
come  to  spoil  and  take  unto  themselves 
the  fruit  of  my  vineyard. 

Now,  the  servants  of  the  nobleman  went 
and  did  as  their  Lord  commanded  them, 
and  planted  the  olive-trees,  and  built  a 
hedge  round  about,  and  set  watchmen, 
and  began  to  build  a  tower. 

And  while  they  were  yet  laying  the  founda- 
tion thereof,  they  began  to  say  among  them- 
selves: And  what  need  hath  my  lord  of 
this  tower? 

And  consulted  for  a  long  time,  saying 
among  themselves:  What  need  hath  my 
lord  of  this  tower,  seeing  this  is  a  time  of 
peace? 

Might  not  this  money  be  given  to  the 
exchangers?  For  there  is  no  need  of  these 
things. 

And  while  they  were  at  variance  one 
with  another  they  became  very  slothful, 
and  they  hearkened  not  unto  the  com- 
mandments of  their  lord. 

And  the  enemy  came  by  night,  and 
broke  down  the  hedge;  and  the  servants 
of  the  nobleman  arose  and  were  affrighted, 
and  fled;  and  the  enemy  destroyed  their 
works,  and  broke  down  the  olive-trees. 

Now,  behold,  the  nobleman,  the  lord  of 
the  vineyard,  called  upon  his  servants,  and 
said  unto  them,  Why!  what  is  the  cause 
of  this  great  evil? 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


75 


Ought  ye  not  to(  have  done  even  as  I 
commanded  you,  and — after  ye  had  planted 
the  vineyard,  and  built  the  hedge  round 
about,  and  set  watchmen  upon  the  walls 
thereof — built  the  tower  also,  and  set  a 
watchman  upon  the  tower,  and  watched 
for  my  vineyard,  and  not  have  fallen 
asleep,  lest  the  enemy  should  come  upon 
you? 

And  behold,  the  watchman  upon  the 
tower  would  have  seen  the  enemy  while 
he  was  yet  afar  off;  and  then  ye  could 
have  made  ready  and  kept  the  enemy  from 
breaking  down  the  hedge  thereof,  and  saved 
my  vineyard  from  the  hands  of  the  de- 
stroyer. (D.  &  C.  101:44-54.) 

So  you  see,  the  Lord  did  institute  a 
work  of  prevention.  He  provided  that 
we  build  fortifications  to  keep  the  enemy 
from  within  our  ranks  and  to  take  pre- 
ventive measures  to  save  our  own.  You 
notice,  also,  how  disturbed  the  Lord  was 
when  some  of  the  servants  in  the  vine- 
yard began  to  say  that  the  work  was 
not  necessary. 

.  .  .  And  what  need  hath  my  lord  of  this 
tower? 

And  consulted  for  a  long  time,  saying 
among  themselves:  What  need  hath  my 
lord  of  this  tower,  seeing  this  is  a  time 
of  peace? 

Might  not  this  money  be  given  to  the 
exchangers?  For  there  is  no  need  of  these 
things.  (Idem,  47-49.) 

And  always  when  the  servants  in  the 
vineyard  begin  to  say  that  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  of  the  vineyard 
are  unnecessary,  that  there  is  no  need 
for  these  things,  then  they  become  sloth- 
ful and  they  hearken  not  unto  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord,  their  God. 

Now,  I  would  like  to  tell  you  a  par- 
able. 

The  Lord  of  the  vineyard  appointed 
a  great  nobleman  to  supervise  all  the 
work  in  the  vineyard.  The  nobleman 
was  very  pleased  with  the  work  of  the 
vineyard,  but  he  noticed  that  although 
there  were  many,  many  people  in  the 
vineyard  who  were  busy  and  doing  as 
they  should  and  keeping  the  command- 
ments, some  were  slipping  away.  A 
work  of  prevention  was  necessary.  Espe- 
cially  was  the   nobleman  concerned 


about  the  young  people  in  the  vineyard, 
so  he  called  upon  certain  of  the  serv- 
ants of  the  vineyard,  telling  them  to  set 
up  an  Aaronic  Priesthood  program 
whereby  the  boys  of  teen-age  could  be 
labored  with  in  a  protective  way  to  keep 
them  from  transgression  and  to  prevent 
the  destroyer  from  invading  their  ranks. 

Much  good  was  accomplished.  But 
in  certain  parts  of  the  vineyard  there 
were  those  who  began  to  say,  "What 
need  hath  my  lord  of  this  program?  This 
is  a  time  of  peace.  Might  not  this  time 
be  spent  in  other  ways?  There  is  no 
need  of  these  things."  The  result  was 
that  they  became  slothful  and  some 
of  the  boys  in  their  charge,  not  being 
cared  for  by  the  servants  in  the  vine- 
yard, slipped  away. 

And  then  the  nobleman  saw  that  a 
labor  should  be  taken  up  with  the  girls 
in  the  vineyard,  and  so  he  assigned  a 
work  to  the  young  women  of  the  Mutual 
Improvement  Association  to  labor  among 
the  young  ladies  of  the  vineyard  and 
requested  that  a  member  of  the  bishop- 
ric in  each  part  of  the  vineyard  should 
labor  with  the  officers  of  the  young 
Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Associa- 
tion. Much  good  was  accomplished 
and  the  nobleman  was  pleased.  But 
he  also  saw,  however,  that  as  was  the 
case  with  the  boys,  so  with  the  girls, 
there  were  some  in  certain  parts  of  the 
vineyard  who  began  to  say,  "What  need 
hath  my  lord  of  this  program?"  And 
as  they  did  so,  some  of  the  girls  slipped 
away,  and  the  destroyer  led  them  down 
to  destruction. 

And  then  the  nobleman  saw  that  some 
of  the  young  women  from  rural  areas 
were  beginning  to  move  into  the  cities, 
and  as  they  came,  some  of  them  were 
led  astray  by  evil  people.  So  the  noble- 
man in  his  great  wisdom  spoke  to  the 
servants  in  the  vineyard  and  invited 
them  to  cooperate  in  a  program  whereby 
the  Church  officers  within  the  cities 
could  help  these  girls,  providing,  of 
course,  the  names  and  addresses  of 
these  girls  were  given  to  them.  So  the 
nobleman  requested  that  the  bishops 
and  the  other  servants  in  the  various 
rural  areas  of  the  vineyard,  should  send 


76 

Saturday,  October  3 

in  to  one  of  the  other  servants  in  the 
vineyard,  Brother  Spencer  W.  Kimball, 
the  names  and  addresses  of  the  girls 
who  were  moving  into  the  city  to  get 
away  from  home  for  one  reason  or  an- 
other, to  try  their  wings.  When  their 
permanent  addresses  were  established, 
Brother  Kimball,  as  one  of  the  servants 
in  the  vineyard,  could  send  them  to  the 
bishops  within  the  cities  who  would 
bring  these  young  ladies  into  whole- 
some environment,  rather  than  to  allow 
them  to  slip  away. 

There  was  a  girl  named  Mary,  who 
decided  she  would  like  to  go  to  the  city. 
She  talked  it  over  with  her  mother  and 
father.  The  father  told  Mary  that  the 
bishop  in  their  part  of  the  vineyard 
had  announced  in  the  ward  meeting  that 
if  any  girls  were  planning  on  going  to 
the  city,  the  bishop  would  like  to  have 
a  consultation  with  them.  So  the  father 
and  the  mother  and  the  young  lady  all 
went  over  to  the  home  of  the  bishop  in 
this  part  of  the  vineyard,  and  discussed 
their  plans.  The  bishop  arranged  with 
them  that  when  Mary's  permanent  ad- 
dress was  obtained,  he  would  notify 
Brother  Kimball  so  that  Brother  Kimball 
in  turn  could  notify  the  city  officers  of 
the  Church  who  would  be  willing  to 
co-operate  with  this  young  lady. 

The  father  and  the  mother,  how- 
ever, wanted  to  go  further.  They  were 
nervous  about  their  girl.  This  would 
be  the  first  time  away  from  home  for 
her.  So  mother  and  dad  decided  that 
they  would  go  into  the  city  with  Mary 
and  help  her  to  find  a  suitable  place  in 
which  to  live.  And  after  a  day's  search- 
ing they  did  find  a  lovely  Latter-day 
Saint  home  in  which  Mary  could  enjoy 
the  proper  kind  of  environment.  The 
father  went  home,  but  the  mother  de- 
cided she  would  stay  on  a  few  more 
days.  Where  would  Mary  go  to  work? 
The  mother  was  going  to  help  Mary 
find  a  job  and  be  sure  that  Mary  found 
work  in  an  environment  which  would 
be  wholesome,  and  so  she  stayed  on  until 
the  proper  kind  of  job  was  found. 

Then  she  decided  to  stay  on  until 
Sunday.  Having  learned  from  the  land- 
lady where  the  meetinghouse  was,  Mary 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

and  her  mother  went  over  to  the  meet- 
inghouse on  Sunday  and  there  looked 
up  the  bishop  of  the  ward  and  introduced 
themselves.  The  mother  explained  that 
Mary  was  going  to  be  in  the  ward,  now 
that  she  was  coming  to  the  city  to  work 
and  she  was  living  with  such  and  such  a 
family,  and  would  appreciate  it  if  the 
bishop  would  arrange  to  provide  the 
proper  help  for  Mary  in  getting  ac- 
quainted in  the  ward  so  that  she  could 
have  wholesome  friends. 

The  mother  then  went  home.  Shortly 
afterward  the  bishop  in  the  home  ward 
sent  the  word  to  Brother  Kimball  and 
Brother  Kimball  confirmed  the  ar- 
rangements with  this  city  bishop  and 
Mary  got  along  beautifully.  She  had 
good  friends,  safe  environment,  and  re- 
mained active  in  the  Church. 

Then  there  was  a  girl  named  Jane. 
Jane's  parents  were  not  quite  as  careful 
as  were  the  parents  of  Mary,  and  they 
allowed  her  to  come  to  the  city  all  by 
herself.  But  they  did  arrange  for  her 
to  go  directly  to  the  Beehive  House 
where  enquiry  was  made  as  to  a  place 
in  which  Jane  could  live.  For  a  short 
time  she  stayed  at  the  Beehive  House 
and  the  bishop  of  the  home  ward  got  in 
touch  with  Brother  Kimball's  office 
and  Brother  Kimball  got  in  touch  with 
both  the  girl  and  the  bishop  of  the 
ward  and  satisfactory  arrangements  were 
made  for  her.  So  when  she  began  her 
stay  in  Salt  Lake  City  she  found  the 
right  kind  of  friends,  and  the  right  kind 
of  environment,  and  all  went  well  with 
her. 

But  then  there  was  a  girl  named 
Helen.  Helen  was  eighteen.  She,  too, 
wanted  to  leave  the  little  country  home 
and  come  in  to  the  big  city,  as  she 
spoke  of  it.  She  did  not  get  along  too 
well  with  her  parents.  There  had  been 
some  difficulties  and  she  wanted,  for 
one  thing,  to  get  away  from  home  re- 
straints. The  bishop  in  that  part  of 
the  vineyard  knew  about  the  situation, 
but  he  was  one  of  those  who  said,  "What 
need  hath  my  lord  of  this  program? 
Isn't  Helen  old  enough  to  take  care 
of  herself?   And  if  she  wants  to  go  into 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


77 


the  city,  that  is  her  business.  Why 
should  I  be  bothering  with  her  affairs? 
What  need  hath  my  lord  of  this  pro- 
gram.-1 

And  so,  without  either  the  cooperation 
of  the  bishop  of  that  part  of  the  vine- 
yard or  her  parents,  Helen  came  into 
the  city,  all  by  herself.  She  got  off 
the  bus,  checked  her  suitcase,  and  wan- 
dered around  town  that  evening  for  a 
few  hours.  Then  she  found  a  rooming 
house  where  she  inquired  about  a  place 
to  stay.  They  were  willing  to  take  her 
in.  She  went  back  to  the  bus  station 
and  got  her  suitcase,  and  came  over  to 
the  rooming  house  to  stay. 

Then  she  had  to  find  a  job.  She 
was  not  skilled  in  anything  but  decided 
that  at  least  she  could  wait  on  tables. 
The  next  day  she  began  looking  for  a 
job  as  a  waitress  in  a  restaurant.  She 
got  a  job,  and  was  quite  thrilled  with  it. 
One  of  the  other  girls  waiting  on  tables 
there  seemed  to  attract  her,  and  they 
became  good  friends.  Within  a  matter 
of  a  week  this  other  waitress  had  invited 
Helen  to  come  and  live  with  her  in  her 
apartment.  Helen,  thinking  that  it  was 
wonderful  to  have  a  friend  like  that,  for 
she  was  lonesome,  went  over  to  stay 
with  her  new  friend.  This  girl  had  a 
number  of  boy  friends.  Some  of  them 
were  not  so  young  but  were  rather  ma- 
ture men.  The  two  girls  went  out  with 
them  to  have  a  good  time,  as  they 
thought.  Once  in  a  while  liquor  was 
served.  Cigarets  were  passed  around. 
Helen  started  going  out  on  her  own  too, 
and  the  other  girl  went  out  on  her  own. 

It  was  not  so  very  long  until  Helen 
found  out  she  was  going  to  have  a 
baby.  She  came  to  her  friend,  the  other 
waitress,  in  a  panic,  and  asked  her  what 
in  the  world  she  could  do.  This  other 
girl  ridiculed  her  for  allowing  herself 
to  get  in  that  condition.  But  she  did 
direct  her  to  a  doctor  who  performed 
illegal  operations.  The  operation  was 
performed,  but  this  doctor  was  not 
clean.  Infection  set  in.  High  fever 
caused  Helen  to  toss  about  on  her  bed. 
The  only  care  she  had  now  was  this 
other  waitress,  and  a  good  part  of  the 
time  she  was  left  alone.    She  became 


worse  and  worse  and  when  she  seemed 
to  be  in  desperate  condition,  the  wait- 
ress friend  got  frightened  and  sent  to 
Helen's  home,  and  told  her  father  and 
mother  they  had  better  come  and  get 
her  and  take  her  home. 

They  came  and  when  they  found  out 
what  the  condition  was  they  were  ter- 
ribly distressed.  Why  should  this  have 
happened  to  their  daughter?  They 
rushed  her  to  a  hospital  where  expert 
care  was  given  to  her.  Her  life  was 
saved.  After  she  had  been  in  the  hospi- 
tal for  quite  a  while,  they  took  her  home 
to  the  little  country  town  from  which 
she  had  come. 

She  now  was  very  much  disillusioned. 
Her  life  seemed  shattered.  Her  passing 
through  all  this  was  so  unnecessary. 
But  some  servant  in  the  vineyard  had 
said,  "What  need  hath  my  lord  of  this 
program?  There  is  no  need.  Isn't  Helen 
old  enough  to  take  care  of  herself?  If 
she  moves  to  the  city,  that  is  her  busi- 
ness. Why  should  I  bother  about  her? 
What  need  hath  my  lord  of  this  pro- 
gram?" 

And  because  one  of  the  servants  in 
the  vineyard  was  so  slothful  and  so 
disinterested  in  this  program  of  pre- 
vention, he  had  thrust  upon  him  a  work 
of  rescue  that  was  far  more  difficult 
than  the  prevention  ever  would  have 
been. 

But  this  servant  in  the  vineyard,  now 
repented.  He  began  to  do  the  work 
assigned  to  him,  and  the  nobleman  was 
pleased.  One  day  the  Lord  said  to  him 
and  to  all  other  faithful  servants  in  the 
vineyard,  "This  shall  be  my  seal  and 
blessing  upon  you,  a  faithful  and  wise 
steward  in  the  midst  of  mine  house,  a 
ruler  in  my  kingdom." 

May  we  have  the  wisdom,  to  accept 
the  Lord's  program  as  it  is  given  to  us. 
May  we  be  willing  to  undertake  this 
work  of  prevention  in  saving  our  girls 
and  our  boys  from  the  onslaught  of  the 
destroyer.  May  we  be  willing  to  be 
awake  to  our  responsibilities.  May  we 
be  willing  to  follow  the  leadership  of 
the  great  nobleman  who  stands  at  the 
head  of  the  vineyard,  I  pray,  in  Jesus' 
name.  Amen. 


78 

Saturday,  October  3 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Second  Day 


Brethren:  I  feel  honored  to  have  the 
privilege  of  meeting  with  you  here 
tonight.  I  have  enjoyed  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  conference  a  very  great 
deal.  I  feel  that  the  Lord  has  been 
near  to  us,  and  if  we  return  to  our  fields 
of  labor  and  observe  the  counsel  and  the 
advice  that  has  been  given,  it  will  prove 
to  be  a  great  uplift  to  the  Church. 

I  earnestly  pray  that  I  might  enjoy 
the  spirit  of  the  Lord  during  the  few 
moments  that  I  stand  before  you.  It 
has  been  suggested  that  I  say  a  few 
words  on  the  missionary  work  of  the 
Church.  Those  of  you  who  have  at- 
tended the  sessions  of  this  conference, 
will  know  that  a  number  of  the  breth- 
ren have  already  spoken  on  this  im- 
portant subject.  I  cannot  think  of  any- 
thing I  would  rather  talk  about.  I 
love  the  missionary  work.  I  have  had 
the  privilege  of  filling  four  missions  for 
the  Church,  and  I  just  would  not  want 
to  raise  a  boy  and  not  have  him  enjoy 
that  opportunity,  even  though  he  might 
have  to  serve  his  country. 

I  wonder  if  we  really  appreciate  the 
great  importance  of  the  missionary  sys- 
tem of  the  Church.  I  have  often  said 
that  to  me  it  is  the  greatest  organization 
or  institution  in  the  world — without  it 
the  kingdom  could  not  be  built.  I  was 
thinking  about  it  this  morning,  and  I 
wondered  what  the  Savior  would  say  if 
he  were  here  tonight  and  talking  to 
this  body  of  Priesthood,  the  instruments 
in  his  hands  for  carrying  on  his  work 
in  the  earth. 

We  might  ask  him  his  opinion  as  to 
the  importance  of  the  work,  something 
like  this:  "Master,  is  it  because  you 
thought  the  missionary  work  was  so 
very,  very  important  that  you  started 
out  the  first  few  verses  of  your  intro- 
duction to  the  revelations  contained  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  with  a 
message  on  the  missionary  work?"  I 
preface  what  I  want  to  say  by  reading 
those  few  verses: 
"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church, 


saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on 
high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men; 
yea,  verily  I  say:  Hearken  ye  people 
from  afar;  and  ye  that  are  upon  the 
islands  of  the  sea,  listen  together. 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is 
unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall 
not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear, 
neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  pene- 
trated." ... 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 
unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these 
last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none 
shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them."  (D.  &  C.  Sec.  1:1-2, 
4-5.) 

That  is  the  beginning  of  the  intro- 
duction to  the  Lord's  revelations  to 
guide  his  church  and  kingdom  in  this 
dispensation  as  he  spake  these  words 
unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

And  then  we  might  say,  "Master, 
when  you  bade  your  apostles  farewell, 
following  your  resurrection,  was  the  im- 
portance of  this  missionary  work  indi- 
cated in  your  last  command  to  them, 
'Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach 
the  Gospel  to  every  creature,  .  .  .  and 
these  signs  shall  follow  them  that  be- 
lieve, .  .  .  (and  then  he  named  the 
signs)  and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway, 
even  unto  the  end  of  the  world.'  "  (Mark 
16:15-18  and  Matt.  28:19-20.) 

I  would  like  to  bear  my  testimony  to 
you  tonight,  that  my  experience  has 
taught  me  that  the  Christ  has  never  re- 
scinded that  promise.  Wherever  the 
missionaries  go,  bearing  his  holy  Priest- 
hood, bearing  witness  of  the  truth,  the 
Lord  goes  with  them.  He  goes  with 
them  and  fills  their  hearts  to  overflow- 
ing. 

I  have  had  many  a  letter  from  mis- 
sionaries while  president  of  a  mission 
indicating  that.  I  have  an  excerpt  from 
a  letter  from  a  widow  in  the  mission- 
field  in  which  she  said  that  five  souls 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


79 


were  about  to  be  brought  into  the 
Church  and  the  very  thought  of  it  filled 
her  heart  with  such  joy  that  she  felt 
like  it  would  burst,  and  then  she  added, 
"such  happiness  I  have  never  known 
in  my  life." 

Is  it  because  the  Lord  promised  that 
he  would  be  with  them  unto  the  end  of 
the  world,  and  we  are  approaching  the 
end  of  the  world,  that  a  missionary  can 
make  a  statement  like  one  that  I  heard 
in  Oregon  a  few  weeks  ago  by  a  mis- 
sionary who  had  just  returned  from  his 
mission?  He  came  down  with  his  fist 
on  the  pulpit  and  said,  "Brothers  and 
sisters,  I  would  not  take  a  check  for  a 
million  dollars  today,  for  the  experi- 
ence of  my  mission." 

Is  it  because  the  Lord  is  keeping  his 
promise,  "And,  lo,  I  am  with  you  al- 
way,  even  unto  the  end  of  the  world," 
that  when  we  meet  for  hours  and  hours, 
six  and  eight  hours  at  a  time,  in  the 
mission  field  with  a  missionary  group 
bearing  their  testimonies  and  reporting 
their  work,  that  there  is  often  not  a  dry 
eye  there?  Is  it  because  the  Savior  has 
made  good  his  promise  that  he  is  with 
them?  After  all,  he  creates  the  feelings 
of  the  human  breast,  and  as  I  have 
often  said,  he  is  the  best  paymaster  in 
all  the  world.  His  servants  are  better 
paid,  without  their  salaries,  than  others 
who  are  paid  large  salaries  for  preaching. 

I  heard  President  Grant  say  in  Europe, 
when  he  was  president  of  the  European 
Mission,  that  notwithstanding  the  years 
he  had  served  as  an  apostle  in  the 
Church,  the  greatest  joy  he  had  ever 
had  in  his  ministry  was  in  the  mission- 
field.  And  after  we  had  met  in  a 
Priesthood  meeting  at  Rotterdam  for  a 
whole  day,  because  he  brought  a  hun- 
dred missionaries  with  him  out  of  Eng- 
land, and  each  one  had  had  an  oppor- 
tunity to  speak,  and  there  had  not  been 
a  dry  eye  there,  he  turned  to  us  mis- 
sionaries and  said,  "Now,  brethren,  to- 
day we  have  feasted  on  the  fat  things 
of  the  spirit  of  the  Lord.  Now  go  out," 
he  said,  "and  give  it  away,  give  it  to 
the  people, — the  more  you  give  away, 
the  more  you  will  have  left."  Is  it  not 
wonderful?   I  have  been  in  missionary 


meetings  where  I  felt  like  I  was  lifted 
up  into  another  world,  and  that  should 
I  open  my  eyes  I  could  see  the  angels 
of  heaven  there.  That,  to  me,  is  an 
evidence  of  how  the  Lord  values  this 
work. 

When  he  stood  upon  the  Mount  of 
Olives  and  told  his  disciples  that  the 
temple  should  be  broken  down  and  not 
one  stone  should  be  left  upon  another, 
they  enquired  of  him  saying,  "Tell  us, 
when  shall  these  things  be?  and  what 
shall  be  the  sign  of  thy  coming,  and  of 
the  end  of  the  world?"  He  told  them 
of  the  coming  of  wars  and  rumors  of 
wars  and  tempests  and  earthquakes  and 
so  forth,  and  then  he  said,  "And  this 
gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached 
in  all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto 
all  nations;  and  then  shall  the  end 
come."  (Matt.  24:2,  14.) 

And  how  shall  it  be  preached?  Paul 
said  that  "faith  cometh  by  hearing  and 
hearing  by  the  word  of  God."  And  how 
shall  they  hear  except  it  be  preached 
unto  them,  and  how  shall  it  be  preached, 
except  they  be  sent.  (Rom.  10:14-17.) 
So,  if  the  Master  is  to  come  and  claim 
his  kingdom,  the  Gospel  must  be 
preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness 
unto  all  nations. 

Is  it  because  this  missionary  work 
is  so  important  in  his  mind  that  when 
He  said  to  one,  "Follow  me,  But  he 
said,  Lord,  suffer  me  first  to  go  and 
bury  my  father,"  Jesus,  as  if  he  would 
say  to  the  Priesthood  of  his  Church, 
that  they  should  not  find  excuses  not 
to  preach  the  kingdom,  said,  "Let  the 
dead  bury  their  dead,  but  go  thou  and 
preach  the  kingdom  of  God."  And 
then  "another  also  said,  Lord  I  will 
follow  thee;  but  let  me  first  go  bid  them 
farewell  which  are  at  home  at  my 
house,  and  Jesus  said  unto  him,  No  man 
having  put  his  hand  to  the  plough  and 
looking  back  is  fit  for  the  kingdom  of 
God."  (Luke  9:59-62.) 

And  then  he  sent  the  Seventy  out.  Is 
it  because  the  work  is  so  important 
that  he  said  unto  them:  "The  harvest 
truly  is  great,  but  the  laborers  are 
few;  pray  ye  therefore  the  Lord  of  the 


80 

Saturday,  October  3 

harvest,  that  he  would  send  forth 
laborers  into  his  harvest."  (Luke  10:2.) 

And,  brethren,  in  this  dispensation, 
when  men  were  first  converted  to  the 
Church  they  went  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
to  find  out  through  him  from  the  Lord 
what  thing  they  should  do  that  would 
be  the  most  pleasing  unto  the  Lord, 
and  almost  invariably  the  answer  came 
back  from  the  Lord  through  the  Proph- 
et of  this  dispensation,  that  they  should 
thrust  in  their  sickles  and  reap  because 
the  harvest  was  white  already  to  be 
garnered,  and  then  he  added,  and  if  it 
so  be  that  ye  shall  labor  all  your  days 
and  bring  save  one  soul  unto  me,  how 
great  shall  be  your  reward  in  the  king- 
dom of  my  Father. 

I  have  thought  of  that  promise  and 
have  reached  the  conclusion  that  I 
would  not  exchange  the  friendships  that 
have  been  mine  with  those  whom  I 
have  had  the  privilege  of  bringing  into 
this  Church,  with  the  help  of  the  Lord, 
as  one  of  his  missionaries,  for  all  the 
wealth  of  this  world.  When  the  Lord 
said,  "If  you  bring  save  one  soul  unto 
me  how  great  shall  be  your  joy,"  I 
never  realized  just  what  that  meant  un- 
til I  had  a  letter  from  a  man  from 
Phoenix  while  I  was  president  of  the 
Southern  States  Mission,  in  which  he 
indicated  that  his  father  was  one  of 
the  first  converts  out  of  the  State  of 
Mississippi  back  in  1840,  and  said, 
"Since  that  time  my  father's  own  de- 
scendants have  given  100  years  of  mis- 
sionary service  to  this  Church,  and 
there  were  15  then  in  the  missionfield, 
and  we  had  three  of  them.  I  told  that 
story  here  in  the  Barratt  Hall  at  a 
Missionary  Conference  in  1940,  just 
100  years  after  that  man  had  been 
gathered  into  the  fold  by  the  efforts  of 
a  missionary,  and  this  good  brother  hap- 
pened to  be  present,  and  at  the  close 
of  the  meeting  he  came  up  and  said, 
"Brother  Richards,  it  is  now  160  years." 
When  you  get  to  adding  15  or  20  years, 
a  year,  it  soon  runs  into  figures. 

Think  of  the  young  missionary  who 
might  have  traveled  through  the  swamps 
of  Mississippi  in  those  early  days,  when 
many   of  the  missionaries  contracted 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

the  malaria  fever,  and  if  he  only  brought, 
say,  this  one  soul  into  the  Church,  he 
might  have  felt  that  his  labors  had  been 
in  vain.  But  in  100  years  time  there 
are  160  years  of  missionary  service  from 
the  descendants  of  that  one  man,  alone, 
not  counting  all  the  converts  they  had 
made,  and  their  converts,  and  their 
converts,  until  you  would  have,  literally 
an  empire  of  people  who  had  joined  the 
Church  because  this  missionary  brought 
this  one  man  into  the  Church. 

Is  it  because  of  the  importance  of 
this  great  missionary  work  that  when 
the  Savior  asked  the  twelve  Nephite 
disciples  what  thing  they  desired  at  his 
hands,  all  but  three  expressed  the  desire 
that  they  might  live  to  the  allotted  age 
of  man,  and  then  come  unto  him  in 
his  kingdom,  but  three  of  them  hesi- 
tated, and  he  told  them  that  he  per- 
ceived that  their  desire  was  the  same 
as  that  of  his  Apostle  John,  that  they 
might  tarry  to  bring  souls  unto  him, 
until  he  should  come  in  his  kingdom, 
and  for  this  desire  he  commended  them. 

He  indicated  that  the  desire  of  the 
nine  was  good,  but  the  desire  of  the 
three  was  a  greater  desire,  to  have  in 
their  hearts  a  desire  to  bring  souls  unto 
him. 

Brethren,  I  feel  that  every  man  who 
bears  the  priesthood  of  God  should 
desire  to  contribute  to  the  missionary 
work  of  this  Church.  I  think  every 
father  in  Israel  ought  to  raise  his  boys 
with  a  desire  to  be  missionaries.  When 
we  think  of  the  blessings  that  we  have, 
the  priesthood  that  we  bear,  it  is  worth 
more  than  all  the  wealth  and  the  suc- 
cess of  the  world.  Why  should  we  not 
want  to  share  with  those  who  know 
not  the  truth  and  make  it  possible 
for  them  to  enjoy  the  glorious  blessings 
that  are  ours  which  we  enjoy  as  mem- 
bers of  this  Church. 

I  remind  you  of  the  story  that  Presi- 
dent Grant  used  to  tell  about  the  good 
Scandinavian  brother  who  came  to  Utah. 
He  had  not  been  taught  very  much 
about  the  Gospel,  but  he  loved  it.  The 
bishop  went  to  him  and  taught  him 
the  law  of  tithing,  and  he  paid  his 
tithing;  he  taught  him  the  fast  offering, 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


81 


and  he  paid  his  fast  offering;  and  then 
he  went  to  get  a  contribution  for  the 
erection  of  a  meeting  house,  and  the 
brother  did  not  know  why  that  could 
not  be  taken  out  of  the  tithing,  but  be- 
fore the  bishop  got  through  with  him, 
he  paid  his  contribution  for  the  meeting 
house;  and  then  the  bishop  went  to 
him  to  get  his  son  to  go  on  a  mission, 
and  the  brother  said,  "That  is  the 
straw  that  breaks  the  camel's  back.  He 
is  our  only  child.  We  just  can't  let 
him  go."  And  then  the  bishop  coun- 
tered, "Brother  so-and-so,  whom  do  you 
love  in  this  world  more  than  any  one 
else  outside  of  your  immediate  family?" 
And  he  thought  a  minute,  then  he  said, 
"I  guess  I  love  that  young  missionary 
who  came  up  to  the  Land  of  the  Mid- 
night Sun  and  taught  me  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  And  then 
the  bishop  countered,  "How  would  you 
like  someone  to  love  your  boy  just  like 
you  love  that  boy?"  And  he  said, 
"Bishop,  you  win  again.  Take  him." 

When  I  went  on  my  first  mission, 
President  Anthon  H.  Lund  told  us  mis- 
sionaries that  the  people  over  there 
would  love  us.  "Now  don't  get  lifted 
up  in  the  pride  of  your  hearts"  he  said, 
"and  think  that  they  love  you  because 
you  are  better  than  others,  they  will 
love  you  because  of  your  calling,  and  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  rests  upon  you." 
I  did  not  know  just  what  Brother  Lund 
meant  by  that,  but  when  I  went  to 
leave  Holland  to  return  home,  I  shed 
a  lot  more  tears  than  I  did  when  I  left 
my  loved  ones  to  go  to  Holland.  I 
went  to  one  home;  and  a  man  old 
enough  to  be  my  father,  in  the  govern- 
ment service  all  of  his  life,  with  a  long 
beard,  knelt  down  on  the  ground  and 
took  my  hand  in  his  and  hugged  it 
and  kissed  it  and  bathed  it  with  his 
tears,  and  then  I  knew  what  Brother 
Lund  meant,  and  then  I  went  into  an- 
other home  where  the  woman  said, 
with  the  tears  rolling  down  her  cheeks, 
"Brother  Richards,  it  was  hard  to  see 
my  daughter  leave  for  Zion  a  few  weeks 
ago,  but  it  is  much  harder  to  see  you 
go."  And  then  I  realized  what  Brother 
Lund  really  meant,  that  they  should 


love  us  because  of  the  Spirit  that  we 
take  with  us  into  the  world. 

I  feel  that  every  father  in  Israel  ought 
to  want  to  see  his  boy  go  on  a  mission, 
and  if  he  has  not  been  himself,  I  think 
he  ought  to  want  to  go,  or  else  help 
with  the  stake  missionary  work.  I 
think  we  all  ought  to  want  to  have  to 
our  credit,  when  a  count  is  finally 
taken,  that  we  have  done  something 
in  the  great  missionary  cause  of  this 
Church. 

President  McKay  threw  out  a  chal- 
lenge to  us  in  the  temple  at  Logan  the 
other  day,  that  each  one  of  us  ought 
to  try  and  bring  one  soul  into  the 
Church  during  the  next  year.  If  every 
member  of  this  Church  would  try  and 
do  that  just  think  what  a  harvest  there 
would  be,  and  when  you  stop  to  think 
about  it,  here  in  this  stake  missionary 
work,  we  have  all  of  our  buildings  to 
offer  to  our  friends,  we  have  a  great 
program.  I  think  now  of  a  man  who 
came  into  my  office  a  few  months  ago. 
He  was  here  from  Michigan  with  his 
family,  and  he  said,  "Bishop,  how  can 
I  get  my  family  into  your  Church.  I 
have  seen  so  much  and  heard  so  much 
about  your  activities  for  youth,  and  we 
do  not  have  any,"  he  said,  "and  I  must 
have  my  children  enjoying  these  things." 

And  so,  right  here  in  our  midst,  if 
we  will  just  carry  the  message  to  our 
neighbors  and  our  friends,  many  of 
them  will  join  the  Church. 

Since  the  close  of  the  afternoon  meet- 
ing, I  visited  with  a  man  for  nearly  an 
hour  in  my  office.  He  lived  in  one  of  our 
towns  here  in  Utah  for  three  years 
and  no  one  ever  offered  him  the  Gos- 
pel or  told  him  anything  about  it  or 
invited  him  to  come  to  one  of  our 
meetings,  and  then  he  moved  off  down 
to  California  and  years  later  he  got  into 
a  good  man's  office  who  gave  him  a 
book  to  read  and  now  he  is  an  Elder 
in  this  Church. 

I  do  not  know  whether  this  story  is 
true  or  not,  but  it  is  a  good  story,  and 
I  like  to  tell  it,  and  I  heard  it  when  I 
was  young.  The  story  is  told  of  an 
Englishman  who  bought  a  farm  up 
here  in  Davis  County,  he  was  not  a 


82 

Saturday,  October  3 

member  of  the  Church  and  all  around 
him  were  Mormons,  but,  you  know, 
when  they  met  this  Englishman  neigh- 
bor they  did  not  want  to  impose  their 
religion  upon  him  and  so  they  passed  the 
time  of  day  and  talked  about  current 
events,  and  finally  one  of  the  neighbors 
was  called  on  a  mission  to  Great  Britain, 
and  while  he  was  there,  his  English 
friend  decided  to  go  back  and  visit  his 
relatives  in  England,  and  while  there 
he  picked  up  a  newspaper  one  evening 
and  read  an  announcement  of  a  Mor- 
mon Conference  to  be  held  and  every- 
body invited  and  no  collection — you 
know  how  that  goes.  "Well,"  he  said, 
to  himself,  "after  living  out  there  among 
them  for  all  this  time,  I  do  not  know 
a  thing  about  what  they  believe.  I 
guess  I  had  better  go  and  listen  to 
them."  So  he  went,  and  to  his  surprise, 
the  principal  speaker  that  evening  was 
his  neighbor  from  next  door,  from  over 
in  Davis  County,  and  he  had  to  go 
all  the  way  back  to  Great  Britain  to  get 
that  neighbor  to  tell  him  of  the  marvel- 
ous work  and  a  wonder  the  Lord  had 
set  his  hand  to  do  in  our  day. 

I  met  a  Stake  Mission  President  in 
one  of  our  stakes  outside  of  Utah,  and 
learned  that  he  was  a  convert  to  the 
Church;  that  he  had  lived  in  Salt  Lake 
City  for  twelve  years,  but  he  had  never 
attended  one  of  our  meetings,  nor  did 
he  join  the  Church  until  he  moved 
away,  and  the  missionaries  contacted 
him.  I  said,  "Why  didn't  you  join  when 
you  were  in  Salt  Lake?"  He  said,  "No 
one  ever  invited  me." 

Brethren,  I  hope  that  right  here  at 
home  we  will  do  some  good  missionary 
work.  You  bishops,  don't  be  too  stingy 
in  giving  these  mission  presidents  the 
help  they  need,  where  you  have  non- 
members  living  within  the  confines  of 
your  stake.  Some  of  these  stakes  are 
going  to  be  comparable  to  our  foreign 
missions  through  the  missionary  work 
that  is  being  done  and  the  spirit  of 
missionary  work  that  is  coming  into  the 
Church. 

It  is  a  great  loss  to  a  man  to  miss 
the  experience  of  a  mission.  It  is  a 
great  loss  to  a  home  to  miss  having 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

their  boys  go  on  missions.  A  short 
time  ago  one  of  our  mission  presidents 
reported  that  they  had  eighteen  mis- 
sionaries come  into  their  mission  out 
of  homes  where  the  parents  were  not 
active  in  the  Church,  but  in  a  short 
time,  in  fifteen  of  those  homes  the  par- 
ents had  become  active,  so  that  the 
missionary  work  is  not  done  only  with 
the  ones  we  meet  in  the  missionfield, 
but  in  our  own  homes,  in  the  lives  of 
the  missionaries,  in  the  communities  in 
which  we  reside,  the  wards  and  stakes, 
we  help  to  lift  the  spirituality  by  the 
missionary  work  that  is  rendered  in  these 
wards  and  in  these  stakes. 

We  are  also  trying  to  reach  out  to 
what  we  call  the  minority  groups.  I 
like  the  spirit  that  Brother  Kimball  has 
with  these  Lamanites.  I  believe  it  is 
because  of  the  importance  of  this  great 
missionary  work  that  he  loves  them  like 
he  does.  I  was  in  a  stake  president's 
home  not  so  long  ago,  and  there  was 
a  picture  of  his  missionary  boy  on  the 
piano,  and  I  said,  "Where  is  he  labor- 
ing?" And  the  wife  said  "Down  among 
the  Indians."  And  I  hardly  dared  ask 
the  next  question,  I  was  afraid.  Finally, 
I  got  up  courage  and  said,  "How  is  he 
enjoying  it?"  "Oh,  Bishop,"  she  said, 
"He  thinks  they  are  wonderful.  He  is 
even  talking  of  going  back  to  live  there 
when  he  gets  released  from  his  mis- 
sion." 

I  think  that  is  what  the  Lord  meant 
when  he  said,  "And,  lo,  I  will  be  with 
you  alway  even  until  the  end  of  the 
world."  He  plants  that  love  in  their 
hearts. 

I  heard  a  young  girl  reporting  her  mis- 
sion among  the  Indians  just  recently 
and  she  just  wept  when  she  told  of  the 
souls  of  those  women  among  whom 
she  had  labored.  We  might  not  have 
thought  that  they  were  worth  saving. 
And  so  we  have  the  Indians  and  the 
Mexicans  and  the  Chinese  and  the 
Japanese  and  other  races  of  people  here 
in  our  midst,  and  remember  the  Lord 
said,  "And  this  Gospel  of  the  Kingdom 
should  be  preached  in  all  the  world 
for  a  witness  unto  all  nations." 

And  when  John  saw  the  angel  flying 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R. 


83 


in  the  midst  of  heaven  with  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel,  it  was  to  be  preached 
to  every  nation,  every  kindred,  every 
tongue,  and  every  people.  (Rev.  14:6-7.) 
Does  that  leave  anybody  out?  If  not, 
that  is  a  part  of  the  great  missionary 
responsibility  that  we  bear  to  the  world. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  it  is 
one  of  the  sweetest  experiences  that  can 
come,  and  I  hope  that  even  our  boys 
who  have  been  in  the  armed  forces 
will  not  be  robbed  of  the  privilege  of 
going  on  missions.  I  think  the  bishops 
ought  to  interview  them  all,  and  if  they 
are  worthy,  give  them  an  opportunity 
and  even  if  they  cannot  go,  they  will 
feel  drawn  to  the  Church  because  they 
have  been  invited. 

I  would  like  to  say  in  parting  to  the 
bishops,  do  not  just  sit  in  your  offices 
and  decide  that  boys  cannot  afford  to 
go  on  missions.  I  will  tell  you  a  story 
that  was  told  to  me.  A  good  brother, 
a  friend  of  mine,  who  aims  to  keep  a 
missionary  in  the  field  all  the  time,  de- 
cided to  go  to  a  poor  section  of  the  city 
and  see  if  the  bishop  would  like  to 
furnish  him  a  missionary,  so  he  said, 
"Do  you  have  a  young  man  that  you 
think  would  like  to  go  on  a  mission 
and  you  have  not  called  him  because 
you  did  not  think  he  would  have  the 
money?"    The  bishop  said,  "We  have 


just  such  a  man  as  that."  My  friend 
said,  "Well,  you  talk  to  him  about  it." 
So  the  bishop  went  to  him  and  when 
he  told  this  young  man  that  he  wanted 
him  to  go  on  a  mission,  the  young 
man's  face  lighted  up  and  he  said,  "Bish- 
op, I  have  the  money  in  the  savings 
bank  for  my  mission.  I  have  been 
waiting  two  years  for  you  to  tell  me  you 
would  like  me  to  go  on  a  mission."  I 
wonder  how  many  men  in  Israel  there 
are  who  have  waited  on  their  bishops 
and  the  call  never  came. 

God  help  us  to  arise  to  the  importance 
of  this  great  missionary  work,  I  humbly 
pray,  and  leave  my  love  and  blessings 
with  you  all,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  congregation,  and  that  includes 
those  brethren  in  Provo  and  in  Logan, 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall, 
and  other  places,  will  now  join  in  sing- 
ing, "We  Thank  Thee  O  God  for  a 
Prophet,"  Brother  Spencer  Cornwall 
directing. 


The  Men's  Chorus  and  the  congrega- 
tion joined  in  singing:  "We  Thank 
Thee,  O  God,  For  A  Prophet." 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brethren:  It  is  always  a  thrill 
to  meet  with  this  great  body  of 
Priesthood,  and  every  time  I  meet 
with  you,  I  am  afflicted  with  the  dread 
that  we  are  not  exercising  the  power  for 
righteousness  that  belongs  to  us.  No 
one  can  estimate  the  power  and  the 
influence  that  we  might  wield,  no  one 
can  estimate  the  amount  of  good  we 
might  do  if  we  were  united,  and  no 
one  can  estimate  the  amount  of  good 
we  are  not  doing,  because  we  are  not 
united  as  we  should  be,  united  in  faith, 
united  in  action,  believing  the  same 
things,  supporting  our  leaders,  ward, 


stake,  Priesthood,  and  all  the  rest.  What 
we  could  do  if  we  would  but  exercise 
the  powers  of  the  Priesthood  which  we 
have. 

And  I  return  again  to  a  thought  that 
I  have  expressed,  I  think,  every  time  I 
have  been  here  in  the  last  twenty  years, 
that  we  cannot  trifle  with  the  Priesthood. 
It  is  not  something  that  we  can  take 
off  as  we  wish,  and  put  on  when  we  get 
ready.  It  is  something  that  is  with  us 
all  the  time,  until  we  lose  it  through 
transgression,  and  then  we  may  not 
put  it  back  on,  because  we  shed  a  few 
tears.     Brethren,    guard,   guard  your 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

Priesthood,  magnify  it,  bring  it  into 
your  homes  honestly,  preserving  your 
covenants. 

I  approve  of  everything  that  Brother 
LeGrand  has  said  tonight.  I  love  to 
hear  him  speak  about  missionary  work. 
His  whole  soul  is  filled  with  it.  All 
that  he  said  is  true.  But  I  want  to  en- 
large the  missionary  labor  a  little  bit, 
Brother  LeGrand,  I  want  to  say  that 
every  one  of  you  men  is  a  missionary  in 
your  own  homes.  You  have  souls  there 
to  save.  Do  you  know  where  your 
daughter  is  tonight,  and  every  night? 
Do  you  know  what  kind  of  company 
she  is  keeping?  Do  you  know  that  when 
she  goes  to  meeting,  as  you  suppose, 
Mutual,  that  she  goes?  Do  you  know 
the  same  things  about  your  sons?  Are 
you  living  the  Gospel,  are  you  magni- 
fying your  Priesthood  in  such  a  way 
that  you  can  exercise  influence  to  see 
that  they  do  go  where  they  should.  Are 
you  so  exercising  your  Priesthood  that 
when  one  of  them  starts  to  go  astray 
that  you  can  counsel  with  them,  have 
them  listen  to  you.  I  know  children 
may  be  reared  in  the  same  home,  the 
same  environment,  the  same  care,  the 
same  instruction,  the  same  example,  and 
yet  one  lives  righteously  and  an  other 
goes  astray.  But,  oh,  the  woe,  the 
misery  and  the  sorrow  that  come  to  the 
father  and  the  mother  of  a  wayward 
daughter  or  son.  Brethren,  do  not  over- 
look the  home  mission. 

Deal  gently,  deal  kindly,  deal  un- 
derstandingly,  deal  justly,  deal  with 
charity,  deal  with  love,  with  your  sons 
and  your  daughters,  and  your  wives.  I 
cannot  over  emphasize  these  thoughts, 
because  I  have  had  fathers  come  to  me 
and  say,  "my  daughter  has  gone  wrong, 
what  can  I  do?"  I  am  sure  they  did  all 
what  they  thought  they  should  do.  Of 
course,  all  of  their  intents  and  purposes 
were  as  they  should  be,  but  somewhere 
they  probably  failed.  You  can  only 
have  one  such  mistake  before  the  dam- 
age is  done. 


Second  Day 

You  know,  our  soldiers  returning  from 
foreign  countries  bring  back  with  them 
various  kinds  of  infections,  infections  of 
the  body,  bring  back  new  germs,  we 
are  unaccustomed  to  them,  we  become 
subject  to  them.  But  they  bring  back 
other  infections,  too,  moral  infections. 
And  those  moral  infections  also  spread, 
they  are  spreading.  I  hope  that  you 
brethren  of  the  Priesthood  are  on  guard 
against  these  infections,  usually  infec- 
tions destroying  chastity.  Do  not  rest 
easy,  brethren,  be  on  the  watch-tower 
always.  Guard  against  these  infections. 
Watch  as  you  would  watch  your  own 
life,  the  lives  and  purity  of  your  children, 
your  loved  ones. 

You  know,  I  believe  that  the  Lord 
will  help  us.  I  believe  if  we  go  to  him, 
he  will  give  us  wisdom,  if  we  are  living 
righteously.  I  believe  he  will  answer 
our  prayers.  I  believe  that  our  Heavenly 
Father  wants  to  save  every  one  of  his 
children.  I  do  not  think  he  intends  to 
shut  any  of  us  off  because  of  some  slight 
transgression,  some  slight  failure  to  ob- 
serve some  rule  or  regulation.  There 
are  the  great  elementals  that  we  must 
observe,  but  he  is  not  going  to  be 
captious  about  the  lesser  things. 

I  believe  that  his  juridical  concept  of 
his  dealings  with  his  children  could  be 
expressed  in  this  way:  I  believe  that  in 
his  justice  and  mercy  he  will  give  us 
the  maximum  reward  for  our  acts,  give 
us  all  that  he  can  give,  and  in  the  re- 
verse, I  believe  that  he  will  impose  upon 
us  the  minimum  penalty  which  it  is 
possible  for  him  to  impose. 

Brethren,  watch  your  homes,  be  mis- 
sionaries in  your  homes,  have  all  the 
zeal,  all  the  faith,  all  the  righteous 
living  that  you  would  have  if  you  were 
in  the  mission  field,  and  then  put  your 
trust  in  God,  asking  his  blessing,  ask 
his  help,  that  he  will  teach  you  how  to 
govern  your  family,  that  you  may  have 
no  tragedies  therein. 

God  bless  you,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


85 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


I believe,  my  brethren,  we  have  cause 
for  encouragement.  Listening  to  the 
report  of  the  Church  made  by  Presi- 
dent McKay  at  the  opening  of  the  Con- 
ference, and  the  various  other  items 
which  have  been  mentioned,  I  believe 
that  we  should  feel  optimistic  about  the 
progress  of  our  work.  I  do.  I  think 
that  we  are  going  forward,  and  I  have 
confidence  and  faith  that  we  will  meet 
all  the  problems  and  situations  which 
arise. 

I  thank  the  Lord  always  for  the  prin- 
ciple of  continuous  revelation.  I  thank 
him  that  he  has  made  provision  for 
his  Spirit  to  attend  all  of  those  who  are 
called  to  preside  in  his  work,  and  I 
speak  not  only  of  the  General  Authori- 
ties, but  those  who  are  charged  with 
the  responsibility  of  presidency  in  the 
stakes  and  the  wards,  in  the  quorums, 
in  the  missions,  in  the  temple,  and  in 
all  of  our  organizations. 

I  am  a  firm  believer  in  improvement. 
I  think  improvement  is  the  law  of  life, 
and  I  am  grateful  that  we  are  not  so 
controlled  by  practices  and  conditions 
of  the  past  that  we  are  not  open  to  the 
consideration  of  ways  and  means  to 
advance  the  Kingdom  of  our  Father. 

I  remember  hearing  a  president  of 
one  of  our  stakes  illustrate  the  point. 
One  of  the  sister  workers  in  an  or- 
ganization of  the  stake  said  to  him,  be- 
cause he  was  a  pretty  hard-driving  presi- 
dent, "President,  it  seems  that  you  are 
never  satisfied."  "O,  yes  I  am,"  he 
said,  "I  am  always  satisfied  that  you 
can  do  better."  And  so  I  am  persuaded 
that  such  new  methods  as  present  them- 
selves and  come  regularly  through  the 
proper  channels  will  be  conducive  to 
the  upbuilding  of  our  Father's  work. 
We  have  evidences  of  it.  I  might  sub- 
mit some  of  the  figures  to  attest  this, 
but  time  will  not  permit  tonight.  The 
whole  picture  looks  to  me  to  be  one 
of  encouragement,  one  to  give  us  cause 
for  great  gratitude  in  the  assurance 


that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  have  been 
upon  us. 

Now  there  are  opportunities  for 
further  perfecting  our  work,  and  those 
opportunities  rest  in  large  measure  with 
our  presiding  brethren.  I  would  like  to 
say  just  a  word  to  the  presidencies  of 
quorums.  These  quorums  of  priesthood, 
as  you  are  all  aware,  are  designated 
of  the  Lord.  They  are  substantially  the 
only  organizations  among  us,  other  than 
that  of  the  general  organization  of  the 
Church,  which  have  been  specifically 
mentioned  in  the  revelations.  The  Lord 
must  have  set  great  store  by  these 
marvelous  institutions  which  he  created. 
He  knew  in  the  beginning  that  his 
priesthood  would  be  the  basic  founda- 
tion of  his  work.  I  was  thinking  to- 
night if  Joseph  and  those  associated 
with  him  in  the  beginning  of  the  work 
could  witness  what  we  see  tonight,  this 
great  demonstration  of  power,  resident 
within  God's  Holy  Priesthood,  and  per- 
haps they  do  see  it,  how  gratified  they 
would  be. 

And  here  is  a  great  reservoir  of  power 
to  be  utilized  for  the  advancement  of 
our  Father's  Kingdom.  Upon  the  quo- 
rums rests  the  largest  measure  of  that 
responsibility.  I  am  persuaded  that 
no  other  organization  can  or  ought  to 
take  their  place,  because  they  constitute 
the  Lord's  grouping  of  the  manpower 
of  his  Church.  Upon  the  presidencies 
of  quorums  rests  the  responsibility  of 
seeing  that  their  quorums  function 
properly. 

We  used  to  have  years  and  years  ago, 
when  the  Priesthood  Committee  of  the 
Church  was  first  organized;  many  may 
remember  it;  President  McKay  will,  a 
very  concise  and  comprehensive  defini- 
tion of  a  quorum.  We  used  to  say 
it  is  three  things:  A  class,  a  fraternity, 
and  a  service  unit.  And  so  we  sought  to 
group  around  these  headings  the  respon- 
sibilities of  the  men  of  the  quorum.  And 
while  there  has  grown  out  of  the  orig- 


86 

Saturday,  October  3 

inal  concept  a  more  elaborate  organiza- 
tion, I  am  persuaded  that  if  we  could 
make  our  quorums  serve  the  functions 
indicated  by  those  three  things  we 
should  accomplish  much  for  the  mem- 
bers and  for  the  Church. 

I  am  thoroughly  persuaded  that  we 
can  learn  the  Gospel  in  our  quorums, 
and  thus  comply  with  the  revelation 
that  men  are  "to  learn  their  duties." 
When  men  profess  that  some  of  the 
courses  of  study  are  a  little  intricate 
and  difficult,  I  think  of  the  days  in 
Kirtland  when  a  few  men  of  meager, 
learning  and  education  had  what  seems 
to  be  the  effrontery  and  boldness  to  set 
about  to  learn  Hebrew,  and  you  will 
recall  how  in  the  School  of  the  Prophets, 
they  engaged  a  Professor  Seixas  to  teach 
them  Hebrew  in  order  that  they  might 
the  better  interpret  God's  word.  We 
can  learn.  We  can  learn  by  study.  We 
can  learn  the  fundamental  things  that 
we  need  to  know  as  members  of  God's 
Holy  Priesthood.  And  we  can  learn 
about  the  apostasy,  which  is  essential 
for  us  to  understand  in  order  that  we 
comprehend  in  its  fulness  the  restora- 
tion and  be  fortified  to  defend  the 
restoration  in  the  latter  days. 

And  I  take  the  liberty  of  urging  you 
men,  through  your  quorum  presidencies, 
to  see  to  it  that  your  teachers  study,  that 
they  receive  the  instruction  which  is 
provided  for  them,  and  the  facilities 
which  have  been  maintained  in  order 
to  give  them  a  concept  of  these  great 
truths  and  to  teach  them  intelligently 
to  those  who  come  to  the  classes.  The 
more  we  make  our  classes  worth  while 
to  the  members,  the  more  readily  will 
they  come,  and  the  greater  the  value 
they  will  receive  from  them. 

Now,  I  don't  know  that  it  is  pos- 
sible for  any  organization  to  succeed 
in  the  Church  under  the  priesthood 
without  adopting  the  genius  of  our 
Church  government.  What  is  that?  As 
I  conceive  it,  the  genius  of  our  Church 
government  is  government  through 
councils.  The  Council  of  the  Presi- 
dency, the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the 
Council  of  the  Stake  Presidency,  or  quo- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

rum,  if  you  choose  to  use  that  word, 
the  Council  of  the  Bishopric,  and  the 
quorum  of  Council  of  the  Quorum 
Presidency.  I  have  had  enough  expe- 
rience to  know  the  value  of  councils. 
Hardly  a  day  passes  but  that  I  see  the 
wisdom,  God's  wisdom,  in  creating  coun- 
cils: to  govern  his  Kingdom.  In  the 
spirit  under  which  we  labor,  men  can 
get  together  with  seemingly  divergent 
views  and  far  different  backgrounds,  and 
under  the  operation  of  that  spirit,  by 
counseling  together,  they  can  arrive  at 
an  accord,  and  that  accord,  (the  occa- 
sions are  so  negligible  as  not  to  be  men- 
tioned) and  therefore  I  say  that  accord 
is  always  right.  That  accord  repre- 
sents the  wisdom  of  the  council,  acting 
under  the  Spirit. 

Now,  brethren  of  priesthood  quorum 
presidencies:  You  need  those  councils, 
and  I  have  no  hesitancy  in  giving  you 
the  assurance,  if  you  will  confer  in 
council  as  you  are  expected  to  do,  God 
will  give  you  solutions  to  the  problems 
that  confront  you  with  reference  to  your 
quorums.  And  he  will  enable  you  to 
find  ways  and  means  of  approaching  the 
men  whom  you  would  like  to  reach  to 
bring  them  into  accord  with  your  quo- 
rum, and  have  them  enjoy  its  spirit.  I 
am  sure  we  can  go  out  and  get  many 
of  these  men.  My  heart  is  always 
troubled  for  the  unusually  large  number 
of  our  elders  who  do  not  ally  themselves 
with  the  quorum  and  secure  the  spirit 
and  the  benefit  to  be  had  therefrom. 
I  am  not  at  all  persuaded  that  these  are 
bad  men,  but  I  am  persuaded  that  they 
are  negligent  often  and  forgetful  and 
neglectful,  and  they  need  your  care. 
And  the  quorum  presidency,  no  matter 
how  many  committees  you  appoint,  the 
quorum  presidency  is  responsible  for 
every  man  in  the  quorum;  and  I  am 
sure  you  cannot  be  relieved  of  that  re- 
sponsibility, although  you  will  want  the 
help  of  all  those  who  may  come  to  your 
assistance. 

And  I  am  persuaded  too  that  if  you 
approach  many  of  these  men  in  frank- 
ness and  true  friendship,  you  will  touch 
their  hearts.  I  have  long  been  persuaded 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


87 


that  it  is  something  of  a  waste  of  time 
to  go  to  a  man's  home  who  has  been 
neglectful  and  spend  the  time  in  talking 
about  the  weather  or  the  crops  or  poli- 
tics or  something  else. 

I  always  admired  my  dear  brother, 
the  President  of  the  Church,  George  Al- 
bert Smith.  I  have  been  with  him  on 
many  occasions.  I  have  seen  him  meet 
many  old  friends,  and  I  frequently  have 
seen  him  take  their  hand,  and  ask  the 
first  question,  not  how  are  you  getting 
along,  which  usually  means  how  much 
money  are  you  making,  but  "How  are 
you  feeling  in  the  Church?"  I  have 
seen  him  ask  that  of  business  men.  I 
have  been  with  him  on  the  streets  of 
this  city  and  had  him  meet  a  business 
man  and  say,  "Well,  how  are  you  feel- 
ing in  the  Church?"  It  was  a  direct  ap- 
proach, and  one  usually  that  brought  a 
response  that  probably  made  the  man 
search  his  conscience,  and  that  is  what 
we  need  to  do  with  these  men,  to  get 
them  to  search  their  own  conscience,  and 
make  their  own  decisions  to  avail  them- 
selves of  these  glorious  opportunities  that 
we  bring  to  them. 

Now,  my  brethren,  I  recognize  that  I 
can't  deal  with  many  problems  tonight. 
There  is  one  problem  that  President 
McKay  suggested  that  I  mention  to  you 
about  the  missionaries,  and  I  fully  en- 
dorse all  that  has  been  said  about  that 
great  work,  and  that  is,  brethren,  that 
we  still  think  it  wise  to  use  some  caution 
in  the  general  advertising  of  missionary 
farewells.  I  don't  need  to  take  the  time 
to  tell  you  the  rather  strenuous  period 
we  have  been  through  in  trying  to  ar- 
range for  our  missionary  program.  It 
has  not  been  easy.  Thank  the  Lord 
it  is  now  operating  in  good  measure  and 
producing  results,  but  it  has  not  been 
easy;  and  for  the  time  being,  it  is  sug- 
gested that  you  follow  the  directions 


that  were  issued  sometime  ago  to  avoid 
newspaper  advertising  of  our  missionary 
farewells.  Times  may  change,  and  this 
instruction  may  change. 

I  just  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the 
divinity  of  this  great  power  that  you  and 
I  hold.  I  know  that  it  is  genuine.  I 
know  that  it  is  authentic.  I  have  no 
more  question  about  its  authenticity  and 
its  derivation  than  I  have  of  any  other 
fact  established  by  the  most  concrete 
evidence  we  could  ask.  Sometimes  there 
are  those  who  when  I  have  laid  my 
hands  upon  their  head  in  ordination 
have  asked  me  for  the  derivation  of  my 
priesthood.  I  repeat  four  steps:  I  was 
ordained  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 
He  was  ordained  by  President  Brigham 
Young.  Brigham  Young  was  ordained 
by  the  three  witnesses,  one  of  whom  was 
Oliver  Cowdery,  and  that  ordination 
was  subsequently  confirmed  by  the 
Prophet.  Oliver  Cowdery  and  Joseph 
Smith  were  ordained  by  angelic  ministers 
from  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  himself.  We 
don't  have  to  go  into  antiquity  to  estab- 
lish the  authenticity  and  the  genuine- 
ness of  this  power  that  we  hold,  and  you 
and  I  know,  that  aside  from  the  evi- 
dences of  its  authentic  derivation,  we 
know  that  there  is  an  essence  within  it 
which  makes  it  more  than  a  mere  name. 
I  have  felt  it  and  you  have.  I  know 
that  our  Father  has  given  it  to  his  men 
and  boys  to  establish  his  work.  God 
help  us  to  use  it  effectively  in  the  crea- 
tion of  a  better  world,  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you  President  Richards  and 
President  Clark. 

We  have  received  a  report  that  by 
actual  count  and  by  report  over  the 
telephone  from  Provo  and  Logan,  we 
have  in  attendance  at  this  great  Priest- 
hood Meeting,  16,173  members. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


My  dear  Fellow  Workers:  Just  a 
few  words  in  conclusion. 
I  commend  the  appeal  made  by 
Brother  Petersen,  and  once  again  ask  that 


the  bishops  send  the  names  to  Elders 
Spencer  Kimball  and  Mark  E.  Petersen 
of  those  girls  and  boys  who  leave  their 
home  towns  to  come  to  the  centers. 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  3 

The  Young  Women's  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association  will  help  you,  if 
you  ask  them  to  report  to  you;  they 
have  so  written  to  me  within  the  week. 
They  are  prepared  to  report  on  every 
girl  in  every  ward  in  the  Church.  The 
Lord  bless  them  and  may  he  bless  you, 
bishops,  in  this  service  of  saving  souls. 

Excursions 

One  other  point — when  you  have  ex- 
cursions for  young  people,  either  to  the 
temple  or  visiting  a  city,  please  see  to 
it  that  you  have  registered  or  chartered 
busses,  unless  you  come  in  your  private 
cars.  In  either  case  be  sure  that  the 
boys  and  girls  are  properly  chaperoned. 

On  Soliciting  Funds 

Wards  and  branches  should  not  so- 
licit funds  or  try  to  raise  money  for 
their  buildings  in  other  places  than 
under  their  own  jurisdiction.  We  do 
not  favor  bidding  on  shovels  used  for 
breaking  ground  for  church  edifices. 

How  to  Obtain  a  Testimony 

A  few  years  ago  a  stranger  sat  in  the 
gallery  opposite  this  pulpit  and  listened 
to  the  testimony  of  one  of  the  elders 
of  the  Church.  He  accompanied  a  man 
who  had  been  excommunicated  from  the 
Church.  As  they  were  walking  out  of 
the  grounds,  the  stranger  said,  referring 
to  the  testimony  of  the  speaker  that 
day,  "Do  you  know,  I  would  give  all  I 
possess  if  I  knew  that  what  that  speaker 
said  today  is  true." 

Several  of  the  brethren  throughout 
this  conference  have  emphasized  the 
value  of  a  testimony.  Brother  Sonne, 
particularly,  laid  stress  upon  the  fact 
that  that  is  the  strength  of  the  Church. 
It  is.  There  is  nothing  which  a  man 
can  possess  in  this  world,  which  will 
bring  more  comfort,  more  hope  and  faith 
than  a  testimony  of  the  existence  of  a 
Heavenly  Father  who  loves  us,  or  of 
the  reality  of  Jesus  Christ,  his  Only 
Begotten  Son,  that  those  two  heavenly 
personages  appeared  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  and  established  the  Church  of 


Second  Day 

Jesus  Christ,  and  that  men  are  officially 
authorized  to  represent  Deity. 

Scientists  are  seeking  that  knowledge, 
some  of  them  in  vain.  One  of  them 
recently  declared  that  he  had  failed 
to  find  it,  and  had  lost  his  faith  even 
in  God,  and  he  is  recognized  as  one  of 
the  great. 

You  know,  too,  you  who  have  read 
the  book  "Man  Does  Not  Stand  Alone," 
how  impressively  that  great  author 
leads  the  world  to  accept  the  existence 
of  God's  guidance.  You  who  have 
heard  missionaries  return  and  bear  wit- 
ness that  they  know  that  this  Gospel  is 
true,  will  remember,  probably,  when 
you  were  boys,  that  you,  too,  would 
have  given  anything  if  you  could  so 
testify  in  truth. 

We  have  hundreds,  perhaps  thou- 
sands of  young  men  here  with  us  to- 
night. They  are  eagerly  longing  to 
have  that  testimony.  Of  its  value,  there 
is  no  question.  Of  its  reality,  too,  there 
is  no  question  in  the  minds  of  you 
leaders  who  possess  an  absolute  knowl- 
edge of  these  things. 

But  as  I  have  listened  to  the  testi- 
monies, I  have  wondered  how  many  of 
us  are  showing  the  boys  how  they  may 
know.  Are  we  sufficiently  emphasizing 
the  fact  that  they  will  never  know  it 
if  they  indulge  in  sin;  they  will  never 
find  it  out  if  they  live  to  gratify  their 
passions  and  appetites.  "My  spirit  shall 
not  always  strive  with  man."  (Gen. 
6:3;  D.  C.  1:33;  Moses  8:17.)  His  spirit 
will  not  dwell  in  unclean  tabernacles. 
("The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  doth  not  dwell 
in  unholy  temples."  Helaman  4:24.) 
And  you  cannot  have  a  testimony  with- 
out the  Spirit  of  God. 

Young  men,  may  I  just  name  three 
steps  that  will  aid  you  in  obtaining 
this  priceless  possession,  and  then  you 
follow  them. 

On  the  night  of  Gethsemane,  Jesus 
offered  a  great  prayer.  In  the  intro- 
duction he  said  this:  "Father,  thou  hast 
heard  me,"  and  he  thanked  the  Lord 
for  it,  and  then  he  said:  "And  this  is 
life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee 
the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ, 
whom  thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:3.) 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


89 


That  is  what  a  testimony  means.  To 
know  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  is  to 
have  life  eternal,  the  great  possession 
of  eternal  life. 

But  the  question  arises — How  may  I 
know?  Jesus  has  answered  it,  as  he 
has  shown  the  way  in  every  aspect  of 
life.  One  day,  when  he  bore  testi- 
mony to  his  divinity,  that  his  teachings 
were  of  God,  the  Pharisees  and  others 
around  him  said,  "How  knoweth  this 
man  letters,  having  never  learned?" 
How  do  we  know  (that  was  their  ques- 
tion), that  you  are  divine?  And  he  gave 
a  simple  answer:  "If  any  man  will  do 
his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine, 
whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I 
speak  of  myself."  (John  7:15,  17.)  There 
is  a  definite  answer — a  clear-cut  state- 
ment, young  man.  "If  ye  will  do  the 
will,  ye  shall  know."  And,  "to  know 
God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  he  has 
sent,  is  eternal  life." 

However,  there  still  remains  unan- 
swered the  question:  What  is  God's 
will?  On  one  occasion  several  thousand 
people  asked  that  question  saying  "Men 
and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do?"  It 
was  on  the  Day  of  Pentecost,  and  Peter, 
who  had  received  a  testimony  and  in- 
structions from  the  Savior,  answered: 
"Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of 
you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the 
remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  For  the 
promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your  chil- 
dren, and  to  all  that  are  afar  off  even 
as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  rhall 
call."  (Acts  2:37-39.) 

Did  you  note  that  first  sentence,  that 
first  condition?  Repentance,  which  is 
a  changing  of  life.  If  you  have  been 
swearing,  stop  it.  That  is  what  re- 
pentance means.  If  you  have  been  dis- 
obeying father  or  mother,  cease  your 
disobedience.  If  you  have  been  think- 
ing impure  thoughts,  substitute  them 
with  noble  ideas.  Repentance  means 
ever  to  change  your  thoughts  and  acts 
for  the  better. 

A  lawyer,  a  Pharisee  asked  Christ,  on 
one  occasion,  "Which  is  the  great  com- 
mandment in  the  law?"  (Matt.  22:36.) 
And  in  answer,  most  profound,  Jesus 


said,  the  first  fundamental  law  is  to 
"love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy 
heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with 
all  thy  mind,  and  with  all  thy  strength." 
(Mark  12:30.)  "And  the  second  is  like 
unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor 
as  thyself."  (Matt.  22:39.)  And  the 
Pharisee  admitted  that  Jesus  had  spoken 
wisely. 

Analyze  that  and  you  will  find  that  it 
means  that  instead  of  centering  your 
thoughts  on  self,  that  God  becomes  the 
center  of  your  existence;  your  thought 
is  what  you  are  going  to  do  for  him. 
You  will  pray  to  him  at  night.  You  will 
pray  to  him  when  you  have  some  heavy 
task  to  perform.  In  your  school  work, 
pray.  I  know,  you  may  not  hear  his 
voice  always,  and  you  may  feel  that  he 
did  not  answer  your  question  in  your 
prayer,  but  in  youth,  keep  praying,  hold- 
ing to  the  assurance  that  God  is  near 
you  to  help  you. 

Christ  has  given  us  "all  things  that 
pertain  unto  life  and  godliness,  through 
the  knowledge  of  him  that  hath  called 
us  to  glory  and  virtue:  Whereby  are 
given  unto  us  exceeding  great  and 
precious  promises:  that  by  these  ye  might 
be  partakers  of  the  divine  nature,"  (II 
Peter  1:3-4)  that  is,  the  Holy  Ghost 
promised  by  Peter,  to  live  in  this  world 
and  be  a  partaker  of  the  divine  nature 
of  our  Father  in  Heaven. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  that  is  a 
reality.  Young  man,  never  lose  sight 
of  it.  And  then,  after  Peter  bore  wit- 
ness that  that  is  a  reality,  he  said 
this: 

"...  add  to  your  faith  virtue;  and 
to  virtue  knowledge; 

"And  to  knowledge  temperance  (note 
the  words) ;  and  to  temperance  patience; 
and  to  patience  godliness; 

"And  to  godliness  brotherly  kindness; 
and  to  brotherly  kindness  charity," — 
love. 

Now  note  the  promise: 

"For  if  these  things  be  in  you,  and 
abound,  they  make  you  that  ye  shall 
neither  be  barren  nor  unfruitful  in  the 
knowledge  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ," — 
of  the  things  of  God.  (II  Peter  1:5-8.) 

And  to  know  God  is  eternal  life. 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

Those  are  divine  steps,  that  lead  back 
to  the  presence  of  God,  our  Eternal 
Father. 

May  the  young  within  the  sound  of 
our  voices  tonight,  and  all  in  the  Church, 
follow  those  steps,  and  gain,  each  one, 
the  precious  gift  of  a  knowledge  of 
the  divinity  of  this  work,  I  humbly  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 


Third  Day 

Choir  will  sing,  "Seek  Thy  God,"  after 
which,  Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of 
the  Conference,  will  offer  the  benedic- 
tion. 


Singing  by  the  Men's  Chorus,  "Seek 
Thy  God." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference  and  Secretary  to  the  First 
Presidency,  offered  the  closing  prayer. 


THIRD  DAY  MEETING 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

Columbia  Broadcasting  Company's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at 
8:00  a.m.,  Sunday,  October  4th.  The 
program  as  presented  was  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  furnished 
the  music  for  this  service,  with  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  Richard  L. 
Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air 
is  presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that  men 
of  many  faiths  may  speak  to  a  nation- 
wide audience.  Today's  service  comes 
to  you  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
through  the  facilities  of  Station  KSL. 
The  speaker  will  be  Henry  D.  Moyle, 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Music  is  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall.  Frank  Asper  is  at  the  or- 
gan. 


The  Choir  opens  the  service  with  one 
of  the  hymns  of  Eliza  R.  Snow,  sung 
to  the  music  of  Evan  Stephens:  "Awake, 
Ye  Saints  of  God,  Awake.  Call  on  the 
Lord  in  mighty  prayer." 

(The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Awake, 
Ye  Saints  of  God."— Stephens). 

Announcer:  We  continue  this  Church 
of  the  Air  Service  with  the  worshipful 
words  and  music  of  Will  James:  "Jesus, 
Our  Lord,  We  Adore  Thee,  Jesus  Our 
Crucified  Savior." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Jesus,  Our  Lord" — 
James). 

Announcer:  We  shall  now  hear  on 
this  Church  of  the  Air  service,  Henry 
D.  Moyle  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  frequently  referred 
to  as  the  Mormon  Church.  In  addition 
to  his  Church  service,  Brother  Moyle 
has  had  a  distinguished  career  as  a  law- 
yer, business  administrator  and  civic 
servant.  He  has  titled  today's  talk: 
"Who  Shall  Deny  or  Question  the 
Justice  of  God?" 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Many  people  of  the  world  today  have 
lost  their  faith  in  the  living  God. 
Their  trust  is  placed  in  many  dif- 
ferent gods,  fashioned  after  the  weakness 
and  inclination  of  men:  A  god  who 


makes  might,  right;  a  god  of  riches,  a 
god  of  selfishness  and  greed;  a  god  of 
lust;  a  god  whom  professional  and  busi- 
ness men  serve,  men  who  worship  their 
profession  or  business  to  the  exclusion 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


91 


of  almost  all  else  in  life;  a  god  of  sports; 
a  god  of  industrialism  or  unionism  as  the 
case  may  be;  all  in  preference  to  the 
God  of  heaven  and  earth,  our  eternal 
Father,  who  has  instilled  in  the  hearts 
of  obedient  children  throughout  the  ages, 
a  love  of  truth  and  virtue!  God  has  said: 

...  I  will  put  my  laws  into  their  mind, 
and  write  them  in  their  hearts:  and  I  will 
be  to  them  a  God,  and  they  shall  be  to 
me  a  people.  (Hebrews  8:10.) 

Herbert  Spencer  has  well  said,  "The 
choice  is  not  between  a  personal  God 
and  something  lower,  but  between  a 
personal  God  and  something  higher." 

Isaiah  prophesied  of  such  disbelief,  as 
we  find  in  the  world  today. 

The  earth  also  is  defiled  under  the  in- 
habitants thereof;  because  they  have  trans- 
gressed the  laws,  changed  the  ordinance, 
broken  the  everlasting  covenant.  (Isaiah 
24:5.) 

Wherefore  the  Lord  said,  Forasmuch  as 
this  people  draw  near  me  with  their  mouth, 
and  with  their  lips  do  honor  me,  but  have 
removed  their  heart  far  from  me,  and  their 
fear  toward  me  is  taught  by  the  precept 
of  men: 

Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a 
marvellous  work  among  this  people,  even 
a  marvellous  work  and  a  wonder:  for  the 
wisdom  of  their  wise  men  shall  perish,  and 
the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men 
shall  be  hid.    (Ibid.,  29:13-14.) 

Through  the  courtesies  and  facilities 
of  the  Columbia  radio  network,  it  is 
my  privilege  upon  this  Church  of  the 
Air  to  represent  a  people  who  today  pro- 
fess to  worship  the  God  of  Israel  and 
lend  obedience  to  his  eternal  laws. 

We  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the  word 
of  God.  We  read  in  the  first  chapter 
of  Genesis,  27th  verse: 

So  God  created  man  in  his  own  image, 
in  the  image  of  God  created  he  him;  male 
and  female  created  he  them. 

This  same  God  of  whom  we  bear  wit- 
ness to  the  world  is  the  creator  of  heaven 
and  earth  and  of  all  things  that  in 
them  are,  of  which  man  is  his  crowning 
glory.  God  gave  man  dominion  over 
all  things  pertaining  to  this  earth. 


"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence." 
(D.  &  C.  93:36.)  Man's  intelligence  is 
God-given.  Man  is  the  offspring  of  God. 
The  power  to  think  and  reason  emanates 
from  this  same  eternal  source.  Dr. 
Francis  L.  Patton,  onetime  president  of 
Princeton  University,  1882  to  1902,  and 
president  of  Princeton  Theological  Semi- 
nary, 1902  to  1913,  wrote  a  book  entitled 
Fundamental  Christianity,  dedicated  to 
his  wife  on  their  sixtieth  wedding  anni- 
versary.  I  quote  therefrom: 

It  is  true,  as  has  been  said,  (by  Milton, 
I  think)  that  we  need  not  find  fault  with 
Reason  since  it  is  all  we  have  wherewith 
to  judge  a  revelation.  But  we  have  this 
treasure  in  earthen  vessels.  Human  reason 
works  under  the  limitations  of  a  finite  mind 
and  shares  in  the  defects  of  a  sinful  nature. 
It  has  often  taken  the  wrong  side  in  debate, 
and  has  tried  to  make  "the  worse  appear  the 
better  reason."  More  than  once  it  has 
been  the  leader  in  an  insurrection  against 
the  government  of  God.  It  has  often  ac- 
cepted a  retainer,  prepared  the  papers  and 
acted  as  leading  counsel  in  the  great  case 
of  Man  v.  his  Maker.  It  has  been  trammelled 
by  prejudice,  blinded  by  foregone  con- 
clusions, and  dominated  by  pride.  It  has 
misread  the  facts,  or  misapplied  the  reason- 
ing based  upon  them.  All  this  goes  to  show 
that  we  need  another  light  than  that  which 
reason  gives.  It  can  handle  categories  and 
make  syllogisms,  but  it  cannot  make  his- 
tory; cannot  survey  the  whole  area  of  being; 
cannot  speak  with  authoritative  confidence 
on  themes  which  only  revelation  can  unfold, 
and  it  transcends  its  prerogative  when  it 
says  that  a  revelation  is  impossible.  It  is 
for  reason  to  take  the  more  modest  part  of 
showing  us  that  what  we  confessedly  need 
has  been  given  us  in  the  religion  which 
came  from  God.  *  *  *  We  cannot  flee 
from  God's  presence.  The  Psalmist  got  at 
the  root  of  all  philosophy  when  he  said: 
"If  I  ascend  up  into  heaven,  thou  art  there: 
if  I  make  my  bed  in  hell,  behold,  thou  art 
there. 

If  I  take  the  wings  of  the  morning,  and 
dwell  in  the  uttermost  parts  of  the  sea; 

Even  there  shall  thy  hand  lead  me,  and 
thy  right  hand  shall  hold  me."  (Psalms 
139:8-10.) 

All  our  observations  of  nature  strongly 
declare  the  existence  of  God.  Paul,  in 
his  epistle  to  the  Hebrews,  writes: 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

.  .  .  every  house  is  builded  by  some  man; 
but  he  that  built  all  things  is  God.  (Hebrews 
3:4.) 

The  prophets  of  old  have  recorded 
their  testimony  concerning  God  in  Holy 
Writ.  They,  in  their  lives,  exemplified 
an  absolute  faith  in  their  God.  Moses 
gives  us  the  early  account  of  God's  deal- 
ings with  his  children  here  upon  this 
earth;  his  personality;  his  character;  his 
attributes  to  inspire  and  direct  us  in 
our  worship  of  our  Creator  in  whose 
image  we  stand.  The  Lord  spake  unto 
Moses  face  to  face  as  a  man  speaketh 
unto  his  friend.  (See  Ex.  33:11.)  Adam 
walked  and  talked  with  God.  The  voice 
of  God  was  heard  from  the  heavens  at 
the  baptism  of  Jesus  Christ.  Peter, 
James,  and  John  heard  his  voice  on 
the  Mount  of  Transfiguration  when  he 
declared:  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in 
whom  I  am  well  pleased;  hear  ye  him." 
(Matt.  17:5.)    Stephen  saw  God. 

But  he,  being  full  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
looked  up  stedfastly  into  heaven,  and  saw 
the  glory  of  God,  and  Jesus  standing  on  the 
right  hand  of  God.  (Acts  7:55.) 

Paul  was  converted  by  a  heavenly 
manifestation.  Finally  in  the  beginning 
of  this  dispensation,  which  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  pro- 
claims to  the  world  is  the  Dispensation 
of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  in  which  all 
things  heretofore  given  of  God  to  man 
will  be  restored,  we  have  this  remarkable 
testimony  given  by  two  of  its  early 
founders  concerning  the  Son  of  God, 
Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  and  Savior. 

And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies 
which  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is  the 
testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him: 
That  he  lives! 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand 
of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice  bearing 
record  that  he  is  the  only  Begotten  of  the 
Father — 

That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of 
him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created,  and 
the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons 
and  daughters  unto  God.  (D.  &  C.  76:22-24.) 

Moses'  life  was  given  to  receiving  the 
laws  of  God  and  proclaiming  them  to 


Third  Day 

his  people,  as  a  prophet  of  God  and 
leader  of  men.  Many  of  God's  laws, 
binding  upon  the  people  of  Israel  in  the 
days  of  Moses,  have  come  down  to  us. 
They  bind  our  consciences  as  much  to- 
day, if  not  more,  than  they  did  that  of 
ancient  Israel  thousands  of  years  ago. 
Today,  no  matter  how  far  we  may  have 
departed  from  the  true  knowledge  and 
understanding  of  God,  we  cannot  vio- 
late the  Ten  Commandments  of  God 
with  complacency  and  a  clear  con- 
science. No  one  throughout  the  history 
of  mankind  ever  permanently  profited  in 
their  violation,  whereas  all  who  have 
obeyed  have  been  blessed  in  their  obedi- 
ence. Disobedience  thereto  has  brought 
sorrow  and  remorse  to  the  human  soul 
with  the  resulting  loss  of  all  promised 
blessings. 

One  prophet  of  old,  Mormon  by  name, 
has  said: 

Therefore  ye  need  not  suppose  that  ye 
can  turn  the  right  hand  of  the  Lord  unto 
the  left,  that  he  may  not  execute  judgment 
unto  the  fulfilling  of  the  covenant  which 
he  hath  made  unto  the  house  of  Israel. 
(3  Nephi  29:9.) 

The  wisdom  of  man  has  never  pro- 
duced a  code  of  conduct  to  compare  with 
the  laws  of  God.  His  laws  also  give  us 
an  insight  into  the  personality  of  God. 
His  nature  is  the  better  understood.  The 
Ten  Commandments  begin  as  follows: 

I  am  the  Lord  thy  God,  which  have 
brought  thee  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  out 
of  the  house  of  bondage. 

Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before 
me. 

Thou  shalt  not  make  unto  thee  any 
graven  image,  or  any  likeness  of  any  thing 
that  is  in  heaven  above,  or  that  is  in  the 
earth  beneath,  or  that  is  in  the  water  under 
the  earth: 

Thou  shalt  not  bow  down  thyself  to 
them,  nor  serve  them:  for  I  the  Lord  thy 
God  am  a  jealous  God,  visiting  the  iniquity 
of  the  fathers  upon  the  children  unto  the 
third  and  fourth  generation  of  them  that 
hate  me; 

And  shewing  mercy  unto  thousands  of 
them  that  love  me,  and  keep  my  command- 
ments. (Ex.  20:2-6.) 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


93 


The  Ten  Commandments  constitute 
a  divine  decree  of  transcendent  im- 
portance to  all  mankind.  To  a  believer 
in  God,  the  very  thought  of  finding 
fault  with  his  holy  judgments  is  sacri- 
lege. We  believe  his  judgments  are 
binding  on  us  here  and  now,  as  well 
as  in  all  preceding  generations,  and 
will  be  binding  upon  all  future  genera- 
tions. 

It  was  Job  who  proclaimed  after  he 
had  lost  everything  but  life,  and  suf- 
fered most  in  body,  his  absolute  reliance 
upon,  and  his  submission  to  the  decrees 
of  God: 

...  the  Lord  gave,  and  the  Lord  hath 
taken  away;  blessed  be  the  name  of  the 
Lord.  (Job  1:21.) 

Job's  faith  in  God  endured.  God's 
existence  was  real.  He  was  actually 
Job's  heavenly  Father,  a  Personality  to 
whom  he  could  pray,  and  upon  whose 
justice  and  mercy  he  could  depend  im- 
plicitly. 

Job  comprehended  God.  He  could 
not  deny  his  existence.  To  those  who 
denied  God,  he  propounded  some  ques- 
tions that  have  never  been  answered  by 
the  wisdom  of  men;  for  example: 

Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  founda- 
tions of  the  earth?  declare,  if  thou  hast 
understanding. 

Who  hath  put  wisdom  in  the  inward 
parts?  or  who  hath  given  understanding  to 
the  heart?  (Ibid.,  38:4,  36.) 

God's  nearness,  yes,  his  presence,  was 
felt  by  Job  when  he  finally  declared: 

For  I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth,  and 
that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter  day  upon 
the  earth: 

And  though  after  my  skin  worms  destroy 
this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall  I  see  God: 

Whom  I  shall  see  for  myself,  and  mine 
eyes  shall  behold,  and  not  another;  though 
my  reins  be  consumed  within  me.  (Ibid., 
19:25-27.) 

Though  centuries  separated  them,  Job 
could  have  declared  as  well  as  did  the 
Apostle  James: 

If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask 
of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally, 


and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given 
him.    (James  1:5.) 

Down  through  the  ages,  from  Father 
Adam  on,  came  to  man  the  same  knowl- 
edge and  understanding  of  God  re- 
ceived from  God  by  those  who  sought 
wisdom,  in  keeping  with  the  admonition 
of  James. 

Today  God  has  not  left  us  alone,  de- 
pendent upon  the  testimonies  of  ancient 
prophets.  In  every  dispensation  of  the 
gospel  upon  the  earth,  from  the  time 
when  Adam  walked  and  talked  with 
God,  to  the  present,  God  has  revealed 
himself  to  man,  and  through  his  proph- 
ets he  has  disseminated  his  law  and  his 
gospel  to  the  earth  anew,  that  all  men 
might  know  that  he  lives,  that  he  is  the 
rewarder  of  them  that  diligently  seek 
him.  He  lives  to  bless  mankind.  He 
has  declared  from  the  heavens  in  these 
latter  days: 

For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man.  (P.  of  G.  P.,  Moses 
1:39.) 

The  importance  of  this  knowledge  is 
made  clear  by  the  prophet  Jeremiah: 

Let  not  the  wise  man  glory  in  his  wisdom, 
neither  let  the  mighty  man  glory  in  his 
might,  let  not  the  rich  man  glory  in  his 
riches: 

But  let  him  that  glorieth  glory  in  this, 
that  he  understandeth  and  knoweth  me, 
that  I  am  the  Lord  which  exercise  loving- 
kindness,  judgment,  and  righteousness,  in 
the  earth:  for  in  these  things  I  delight,  saith 
the  Lord.  (Jeremiah  9:23-24.) 

God  gave  knowledge  and  understand- 
ing to  the  disciples  of  Christ  which 
prepared  them  to  suffer  persecution  and 
even  death  rather  than  deny  the  divine 
mission  of  their  Lord  and  Savior. 

.  .  .  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to  please 
him:  for  he  that  cometh  to  God  must  be- 
lieve that  he  is,  and  that  he  is  a  rewarder 
of  them  that  diligently  seek  him.  (Hebrews 
11:6.) 

I  know  that  God  lives  to  enlighten  our 
minds,  quicken  our  understandings,  and 
give  to  us  a  knowledge  and  understand- 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

ing  of  God  and  of  his  eternal  purposes, 
and  of  the  divine  mission  of  his  Only 
Begotten  Son,  Jesus  Christ;  that  he  hears 
and  answers  our  prayers  with  a  filial 
love  for  us,  his  children  here  upon  this 
earth.  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir — 
"Sweet  Is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  Time  and  facilities  for 
the  Church  of  the  Air  are  provided  with- 
out charge  by  CBS  Radio  and  its  affili- 
ated stations,  and  in  the  same  spirit  the 
participating  speakers  and  choirs  give 
their  services. 

CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

The  regular  Sunday  morning  Choir 
and  Organ  Broadcast  was  presented 
Sunday  morning,  October  4,  at  9:00, 
which  was  followed  at  10:00  o'clock  by 
the  regular  Conference  session. 

Long  before  the  hour  for  commencing 
the  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast,  the 
Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity  by 
members  who  had  assembled  from  all 
parts  of  the  Church.  In  addition,  the 
Assembly  Hall  just  south  of  the  Taber- 
nacle was  filled  with  people,  as  was 
also  the  Barratt  Hall  (60  North  Main 
Street),  provision  having  been  made  so 
that  those  assembled  in  these  buildings 
could  watch  and  hear  the  Conference 
services  by  means  of  television.  Then 
too,  hundreds  of  people  assembled  on 
the  grounds  and  listened  to  the  services 
by  means  of  amplifiers  as  the  Conference 
was  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  was  presented  from  9:00  to  9:30 
a.m.,  through  the  courtesy  and  facilities 
of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
network,  throughout  the  United  States. 
The  broadcast  was  as  follows: 

(The  organ  played  "As  the  Dew," 
and  on  signal  the  Organ  and  Choir  be- 
gan the  hymn,  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred 
Strain,"  singing  the  words  to  the  end 
of  the  second  line,  and  humming  to  the 


Third  Dai} 

end  of  the  verse  for  the  announcer's 
background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its 
affiliated  stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  from 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  the 
Choir,  Frank  Asper  at  the  Organ,  and 
the  spoken  word  by  Richard  Evans. 

The  Choir  turns  first  to  a  song  of  sup- 
plication by  Tschesnokoff  as  arranged 
by  Noble  Cain:  "Let  Thy  Holy  Presence 
Come  Upon  Us,  O  Lord,  We  Pray." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Let  Thy  Holy 
Presence" — Tschesnokoff ) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper  first  selects 
on  Temple  Square  today,  a  devotional 
theme  from  the  writings  of  Robert  Leech 
Bedell:  "Lullaby  and  Prayer." 

(Organ  number:  "Lullaby  and 
Prayer"— Bedell) 

Announcer:  From  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  we  hear  one  of  the  hymns  of 
Parley  P.  Pratt,  sung  to  a  hymn  tune  by 
John  Tullidge:  "An  Angel  from  On 
High  the  long,  long  silence  broke." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "An  Angel  From 
On  High"— Tullidge) 

Announcer:  We  hear  another  organ 
offering  as  Frank  Asper  selects  the  quiet- 
ly thoughtful  mood  and  melody  of  a 
song  without  words  by  Joseph  Bonnet. 

(Organ  number:  "Romance  sans 
Paroles" — Bonnet) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
now  recalls  a  Motet  for  mixed  voices 
with  the  music  of  F.  Quilici:  "Jesu, 
Word  of  God  Incarnate." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Jesu,  Word  of 
God"-Quilici) 

THE  SPOKEN  WORD 

We  recall  the  often  quoted  comment 
of  Lewis  Carroll's  Red  Queen:  "Now 
here,  you  see,  it  takes  all  the  running 
you  can  do  to  keep  in  the  same  place." 
It  does  require  an  earnest  effort  to  keep 
even  with  life — and  one  of  the  chroni- 
cally discouraging  experiences  is  to  be 
chronically  behind.  Leaving  things  that 


THE  SPOKEN  WORD 


95 


should  be  done  sooner,  until  just  a  little 
later  is  a  factor  in  unhappiness  and  fail- 
ure. This  is  evident  in  students  who 
habitually  leave  homework  too  late  and 
first  pursue  other  pastimes  and  pleasures, 
and  count  on  doing  the  essentials  sec- 
ond— who  ignore  the  alarm  just  a  little 
too  long,  who  leave  home  just  a  little 
too  late,  and  who,  literally  or  figurative- 
ly, live  life  breathlessly  trying  to  beat 
the  bell — and  seldom  arrive  in  time  to 
be  quite  comfortable,  or  to  seem  settled 
or  to  feel  prepared.  In  the  words  of  a 
wise  educator:  "It  is  easier  to  keep  up 
than  to  catch  up."  Cramming  isn't  a 
pleasant  pursuit.  Nor  is  trying  to  do 
several  days  work  in  one.  Loafing  along 
and  then  trying  to  pour  in,  in  one  night, 
all  the  knowledge  that  should  have  been 
absorbed  in  small  daily  doses  is  always 
difficult  and  discouraging.  This  is  true 
not  only  of  young  people,  not  only  of 
academic  obligations,  but  in  all  of  life 
as  well:  Leaving  to  the  end  of  the  year 
what  should  be  kept  up  currently,  leav- 
ing too  late  any  obligation  of  life,  is  an 
uncomfortable  way  of  living,  and 
hazardous  as  to  the  things  both  of  time 
and  eternity.  There  is  seldom  any  real 
reason  to  suppose  that  what  we  ought 
to  be  doing  now  will  be  easier  to  do 
after  we  find  ourselves  farther  behind. 
There  is  seldom  any  experience  to  sug- 
gest that  sluffing  today  and  doubling 
the  obligations  of  tomorrow  will  im- 
prove our  future  prospects.  To  concur 
with  the  comment  of  the  Red  Queen: 
We  have  to  run  so  fast  to  stay  where 
we  are.  And  to  the  student  near  the 
starting  of  school,  and  to  all  people  at 
any  point  in  life:  "It  is  easier  to  keep 
up  than  to  catch  up."  There  is  no 
better  time  to  keep  up  than  currently, 
and  there  is  little  reason  to  suppose  that 
it  will  be  easier  to  do  all  at  once  what 


should  be  done  in  digestible  amounts 
each  day.  Repentance  is  a  great  and 
blessed  principle  (one  that  all  of  us 
have  need  of),  and  catching  up  is  a 
kind  of  repentance.  But  better  than 
repentance  is  keeping  the  command- 
ments; and  better  than  catching  up  is 
keeping  up — so  that  postponement  and 
procrastination  are  not  permitted  to 
place  an  always  uncomfortable  penalty 
upon  us. 

(Organ  number:  "Sweet  Hour  of 
Prayer" — Bradbury) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper  has  pre- 
sented a  hymn  melody  by  William 
Bradbury,  which  takes  its  title  from  the 
words  of  W.  W.  Walford:  "Sweet  Hour 
of  Prayer." 

And  now  we  close  with  a  sacred  song 
from  Handel's  Messiah,  written  on  a 
scriptural  text:  "His  Yoke  is  easy;  his 
burden  is  light." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "His  Yoke  is  Easy" 
—Handel) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you 
within  the  shadows  of  the  everlasting 
hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day 
— and  always. 

This  concludes  the  twelve  hundred 
and  fifty-ninth  presentation,  continu- 
ing the  25th  year  of  this  traditional 
broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by 
CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations, 
originating  with  station  KSL  in  Salt 
Lake  City. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  with  its  three  hun- 
dred seventy-five  singing  voices.  Frank 
Asper  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken 
word  by  Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  once  more  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 


SUNDAY  MORNING  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  SESSION 


The  regular  Sunday  morning  session 
of  the  Conference  convened  promptly  at 
10:00. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
leadership  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  fur- 


nished the  choral  music  for  this  session. 
Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

In   solemn   worship   this  beautiful 


96 

Sunday,  October  4 

Sunday  morning,  thousands  are  assem- 
bled in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  the  Barratt  Hall, 
and  I  see  on  the  walks  and  lawns, 
Tabernacle  grounds,  many  others  who 
are  listening  in  over  the  local  radio 
and  television  stations. 

This  is  the  sixth  session  of  this  Gen- 
eral Conference.  The  fifth  session  was 
not  broadcast.  It  was  a  General  Priest- 
hood Meeting,  held  last  evening  in  the 
Tabernacle,  with  overflow  meetings  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  the  Barratt  Hall, 
and  for  your  interest  as  well,  we  should 
like  to  say  that  as  nearly  as  the  ushers 
could  count,  there  were  assembled  in 
that  Priesthood  meeting  last  evening 
16,173  men  and  boys  holding  the  Priest- 
hood. The  speakers  were  Elder  Mark  E. 
Petersen  and  Elder  LeGrand  Richards 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and 
members  of  the  First  Presidency.  The 
Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
furnished  the  music. 

Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  was  the  speaker 
on  Columbia's  Church  of  the  Air  pro- 
gram this  morning  at  8  o'clock.  We 
trust  that  many  of  you  listened  to  that 
excellent  address. 

So  we  are  now  assembled  in  the  sixth 
session  of  the  124th  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church.  These  services 
are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  in  the  Barratt  Hall,  over  a  loud- 
speaking  system  and  by  television. 
These  services  are  also  being  televised 
over  KSL  Television  at  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  will  be  heard  over  radio  through 
KSL  over  twenty-two  stations  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Arizona,  Nevada,  Colorado,  Cali- 
fornia, Oregon,  Washington,  and  by 
special  arrangement  over  five  television 
stations  in  San  Francisco,  Los  Angeles, 
Portland,  Oregon,  and  Tacoma,  Wash- 
ington. The  names  of  all  these  stations 
have  already  been  announced  to  the 
radio  and  television  audiences. 

At  this  time  we  desire  to  express  our 
deep  appreciation  to  these  various  radio 
and  television  stations  for  their  courtesy 
in  making  available  their  time  and 
facilities  for  these  broadcasts. 

The  Choir  singing  for  this  morning's 
session  of  the  Conference  will  be  by  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting,  and  with  Elder 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  We 
shall  begin  by  the  Choir  and  congrega- 
tion singing,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints," 
with  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting. 
The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Donald  Ellsworth,  President  of 
the  Mesa  Stake. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come  Ye 
Saints,"  Richard  L.  Condie  conduct- 
ing. 

Elder  Donald  Ellsworth,  President  of 
the  Mesa  Stake,  offered  the  invocation. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"The  Morning  Breaks,"  directed  by  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  wish  to  acknowledge  the  presence 
of  prominent  visitors  who  are  wor- 
shipping with  us  this  morning,  and 
others  who  for  the  first  time  are  listen- 
ing in  by  television.  We  observe  in 
the  audience  Senator  Wallace  F.  Ben- 
nett, Brother  LaMont  Toronto,  Secretary 
of  State;  Dr.  Aldous  Dixon,  President 
of  the  Utah  Agricultural  College;  Su- 
perintendent Allen  Bateman,  State 
Superintendent  of  Public  Instruction; 
Dr.  Homer  Durham,  Vice  President, 
University  of  Utah;  Mayor  Earl  J.  Glade, 
Mayor  of  Salt  Lake  City;  Dr.  Ernest 
Wilkinson,  President  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University;  Dr.  M.  Lynn  Bennion, 
Superintendent  of  the  Salt  Lake  City 
Schools;  and  others  probably  whom  we 
have  not  observed.  We  bid  you  all 
welcome. 

And  we  wish  to  extend  greetings  and 
a  heartfelt  welcome  to  the  thousands 
who  are  sitting  opposite  their  television 
sets  in  San  Francisco,  Los  Angeles,  Port- 
land and  Seattle,  and  probably  Sacra- 
mento, for  we  have  just  learned  that 
telephone  connections  have  been  in 
progress,  with  a  view  of  having  these 
television  sets  available  in  that  city. 

As  we  contemplate  this  new  situa- 
tion, we  cannot  help  but  be  impressed 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


97 


that  this  is  an  epoch-making  service. 
In  a  way  it  may  be  compared  to  the 
first  telegraph  message  that  went  over 
the  wires  from  Salt  Lake  City  October 
24,  1861.  That  message  was  sent  to 
President  Abraham  Lincoln,  and  read: 
"Utah  has  not  seceded  but  is  firm  for 
the  Union.  (Signed)  President  Brigham 
Young" 

Today,  for  the  first  time  in  history, 
thousands  have  an  opportunity,  outside 
of  the  State,  to  meet  with  us  in  this 
worship.  With  all  our  hearts,  we  bid 
you  welcome,  and  pray  that  the  spirit 
of  this  great  assembly  may  be  in  your 
hearts,  to  the  end  that  in  our  worship 


during  the  next  two  hours,  our  souls 
may  be  uplifted,  our  minds  directed 
towards  the  real  things  in  life, — the  ex- 
istence of  our  Heavenly  Father,  his  love 
for  his  children,  and  his  desire  that  good 
will  may  prevail  in  the  hearts  of  men 
to  the  end  that  peace  may  be  estab- 
lished in  the  earth. 

God  bless  you  all,  who  are  sitting 
with  us  by  radio  and  by  television,  in 
this  worship. 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will 
be  President  Stephen  L  Richards,  mem- 
ber of  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


1am  deeply  grateful  for  the  high  privi- 
lege of  being  present  in  person  with 
you  at  this  great  conference  of  the 
Church.  I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  in- 
spiration, the  encouragement,  and  the 
uplifting  remarks  and  spirit  which  have 
characterized  the  sessions  to  this  point. 
I  thank  the  choir  for  singing  that  great 
hymn,  "The  Morning  Breaks,"  my 
favorite,  embodying  in  a  measure  at  least 
the  essentials  of  the  message  which  I 
would  give  to  you  today.  I  approach 
the  task  humbly,  asking  the  Lord  to 
bless  my  utterance  beyond  the  mere  im- 
port of  the  words,  to  bring  to  you  the 
spirit  of  our  work. 

In  a  recent  address  by  the  president 
of  one  of  our  American  universities,  the 
following  observations  were  made.  I 
give  their  substance  to  you.  Speaking 
of  the  technological  age  in  which  we 
live,  this  educator  pointed  out  that  the 
economic  and  military  security  of  the 
nation  depends  upon  scientists,  physi- 
cists, and  engineers  to  keep  abreast  of 
new  developments.  "But,"  said  he,  "to 
survive  in  the  complex  world,  however, 
America  must  have  specialists  outside 
the  technical  and  scientific  field."  He 
declared  that  it  was  not  a  shortage  of 
engineers  or  atomic  physicists  that 
caused  the  loss  of  China  to  our  side. 


A  brilliant  cadre  of  engineers  is  in- 
effective while  the  waterfront  is  ruled 
by  gangsters.  A  high  level  of  training 
in  economics  is  less  meaningful  if  labor 
and  industrial  leaders  cannot  realize 
that  "although  the  whole  is  never 
healthier  than  its  parts,  it  is  always 
greater.  A  stockpile  of  atomic  bombs 
has  less  power  if  sections  of  the  popu- 
lation are  blocked  by  prejudice  or  made 
stagnant  through  ignorance."  After 
setting  out  the  place  of  education  in 
our  American  system,  he  concludes  with 
this  statement:  "The  skills  we  lack  most 
are  in  human  relations." 

It  is  this  statement  which  intrigued 
my  interest  and  made  me  feel  that  it 
might  be  well  to  use  this  occasion  to  call 
the  attention  of  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, and  our  friends  who  listen  in,  to 
the  unique  contribution  which  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  has  to  make  and  is  making  in 
this  all-important  aspect  of  the  world's 
affairs. 

Human  relations — what  things  are 
comprehended  by  this  caption!  In  the 
economic  world  the  term  is  frequently 
used  interchangeably  with  public  re- 
lations and  is  reduced  in  final  analysis 
to  an  adjunct  of  the  profit  motive,  to 
bring  about  a  better  understanding  of 


98 

Sunday,  October  4 

people,  their  natures  and  desires,  to 
create  sympathetic  understandings  of 
businesses  and  their  problems,  with  the 
ultimate  objective  of  inducing  favorable 
attitudes  and  a  wider  reception  of  the 
products  of  business  and  thereby  increase 
profits.  In  the  main  I  have  no  criticism 
of  the  honest  efforts  put  forth  by  busi- 
ness to  create  good  will  for  themselves 
and  that  which  they  have  to  sell.  Many 
of  the  statements  by  business  executives 
lauding  the  principles  of  service  and 
considerate  treatment  are  elevating  in 
character  and  intent,  but  I  fear  much 
of  their  force  is  lost  in  the  natural,  if 
not  always  warranted,  inference  of  the 
people  that  such  idealism  is  primarily 
self-serving.  I  shall  have  more  to  say 
about  the  economic  phase  of  human  re- 
lationships in  its  bearing  upon  wider 
aspects  of  the  subject  at  a  later  point 
in  these  remarks. 

And  next,  human  relations,  as  com- 
prehended within  the  social  sciences: 
I  don't  profess  to  have  knowledge  suffi- 
cient to  warrant  my  giving  any  defini- 
tions or  classifications,  but  I  assume  that 
the  social  sciences  embrace  what  in  the 
law  we  used  to  call  domestic  relations, 
which  included  rights  and  obligations 
arising  out  of  the  family  relationship, 
the  association  of  people  in  communi- 
ties, and  even  in  the  larger  groupings  of 
states,  nations,  and  races.  I  readily 
concede  that  research  and  study  con- 
cerning the  social  make-up  of  the  world 
can  be  and  should  be  of  great  value  in 
solving  some  of  its  problems  and  direct- 
ing the  thinking  and  energies  of  man- 
kind to  a  more  peaceful  living  together 
in  the  societies  of  the  world.  I  would 
not  discourage  continued  study  in  the 
field  of  sociology.  I  could  even  go  along 
with  the  president  of  the  university, 
who  seems  to  recommend  greater  empha- 
sis upon  it.  I  think,  however,  to  be 
candid  with  ourselves,  we  might  ask 
ourselves  just  what  profit  to  date  has 
been  realized  in  the  study  of  the  social 
sciences  in  bringing  about  a  greater 
stability  in  the  homes  of  the  people,  in 
curbing  juvenile  delinquency,  in  com- 
posing the  acute  problems  arising  out 
of  traditional  industrial  strife,  in  sup- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

pressing  class  hatreds  manifesting  them- 
selves among  the  peoples  of  the  world, 
and  lastly,  and  perhaps  most  importantly 
of  all,  in  the  acquisition  of  peace  among 
the  nations.  I  will  not  say,  and  I  do 
not  wish  the  inference  to  be  drawn, 
that  no  progress  has  been  made  along 
the  lines  I  have  mentioned.  Enlighten- 
ment from  study  is  always  a  step  in 
progress.  A  development  of  the  facts 
through  research  is  highly  desirable  and 
necessary  in  the  formulation  of  forward- 
looking  programs,  but  I  fear,  and  I 
confess  I  have  little  more  than  hearsay 
evidence  and  occasional  observations 
in  my  reading  to  support  my  fear,  that 
the  teachings  of  some  of  the  sociologists 
have  retarded  more  than  they  have  ad- 
vanced the  attainment  of  the  goals  good 
people  hope  for,  especially  in  regard 
to  home  and  family  life. 

I  come  now  to  human  relations 
among  the  nations,  which  is  the  phase 
of  the  subject  most  engaging  to  me  at 
the  present  time.  I  understand  there  is 
a  department  of  human  relations,  or 
the  humanities,  in  the  set-up  of  the 
United  Nations.  I  have  no  definite 
knowledge  as  to  the  prescribed  functions 
of  this  department,  but  one  would  nat- 
urally infer  that  its  objective  is  to  im- 
prove the  conditions  among  suffering 
and  underprivileged  peoples,  and  thereby 
create  better  understandings  and  good 
will  among  men  and  women  all  over 
the  globe.  If  it  is  in  position  to  con- 
tribute to  this  betterment,  I  am  sure 
that  all  men  of  good  will  would  wish 
it  success,  although  many  might  have 
objection  to  the  means  of  accomplish- 
ing its  purposes. 

This  very  brief  outline  may  serve  to 
remind  us,  and  it  is  my  hope  that  it 
will,  of  the  vital,  transcendent  im- 
portance of  the  field  of  human  relations 
in  the  lives  and  affairs  of  mankind,  in 
homes,  communities,  societies,  and  na- 
tions of  the  world.  It  was  undoubtedly 
a  recognition  of  the  importance  of  the 
subject  that  induced  the  college  presi- 
dent to  say  that  the  skills  we  lack  most 
and  need  most  are  in  human  relations. 
I  think  few  of  us  would  disagree  with 
him,  although  there  would  probably  be 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


99 


great  variance  of  opinion  on  the  vital 
issue — What  are  these  skills  and  how 
are  they  to  be  obtained?  That  is  where 
we  come  into  the  picture,  my  brethren 
and  sisters.  In  order  to  make  a  con- 
tribution of  substance  to  the  solution 
of  these  pressing  problems,  we  have  to 
make  positive  statements.  These  posi- 
tive declarations  sound  intolerant  and 
presumptuous  to  many  of  our  listeners 
who  don't  understand  fully  the  nature 
of  our  work  and  the  grounds  on  which 
we  issue  such  statements. 

There  has  been  a  great  build-up  in 
our  own  country,  and  perhaps  in  others 
in  the  last  several  decades,  for  what 
is  termed  broadmindedness  and  toler- 
ance. It  is  one  of  the  most  popular  sub- 
jects on  which  a  man  can  speak.  I 
heard  a  young  minister  of  very  engag- 
ing personality  deliver  a  most  enter- 
taining address  on  aspects  of  this  theme 
just  a  short  time  ago.  In  his  advocacy 
of  Christian  good  will  and  brotherhood 
he  asked  people  to  consider  and 
reconsider  their  attitudes  toward  life, 
banish  prejudices,  and  be  kind  and 
friendly  to  all.  He  pictured  the  Savior 
during  his  earthly  ministry  going  about 
advocating  such  tolerance  and  friendli- 
ness. He  urged  a- de-emphasis  on  de- 
nominational differences  and  the  forma- 
tion of  a  brotherhood  that  would  permit 
all  to  come  together  in  harmony  and 
good  fellowship.  I  don't  know  whether 
he  thought  his  formula  would  cure  all 
the  world's  ills,  but  I  am  sure  he  was 
convinced  that  it  would  help,  and  I 
think  too  that  good  will  come  from  his 
popular  lectures  over  the  country. 

But  I  do  not  think,  my  friends,  that 
this  friendly  counsel  for  tolerant  brother- 
hood is  a  realistic  or  basic  answer  to  the 
problems  facing  us  today,  particularly 
in  the  sphere  of  human  relations.  I  am 
very  fearful  that  this  popular  appeal 
for  so-called  broadmindedness  and 
tolerance  has  brought  in  the  past  and 
still  continues  to  promote  a  type  of 
thinking  which  does  not  contribute  to 
the  seemingly  worthy  objectives  its  pro- 
ponents entertain  for  it.  It  sounds 
good,  but  how  good  is  it?  It  would  be 
interesting  to  know  how  some  of  its 
advocates  would  answer  questions  such 


as  these:  Should  we  be  tolerant  of  in- 
fractions of  the  Ten  Commandments, 
that  great  statement  of  basic  divine 
law?  Would  you  tolerate  a  little  steal- 
ing, a  little  lying?  Would  you  tolerate 
violation  of  the  law  of  chastity?  To 
what  extent?  Do  you  think  that  a  loose 
or  equivocal  position  with  reference  to 
the  virtues  enjoined  by  God  is  calcu- 
lated to  inspire  in  youth  a  respect  for 
moral  rectitude,  the  type  of  American 
life  that  the  founders  left  as  our  heri- 
tage? I  grant  that  it  is  a  commendable 
interpretation  of  Christ's  teachings  to 
solicit  compassionate  consideration  for 
those  who  are  weak  and  who  have  made 
mistakes,  but  it  is  a  tragic  error  to  fail 
to  distinguish  between  tolerance  for  the 
sin  and  sympathy  for  the  sinner.  Truth 
is  not  tolerant  of  error.  Standards  of 
truth  are  exacting,  and  the  blessings 
Christ  promised  are  obtainable  in  their 
fulness  only  upon  strict  observance.  No 
greater  boon  could  come  to  America 
and  the  world  than  a  universal  convic- 
tion of  this  principle.  The  nations 
could  have  their  hearts'  desire  of  peace 
in  righteousness  if  they  would  make 
themselves  worthy. 

I  have  traveled  a  little,  it  might  be 
considered  a  lot  except  as  compared  with 
the  marvelous  globe-encircling  record 
of  our  dear  President;  I  have  visited 
countries  far  removed  from  America; 
I  have  had  special  occasion  to  observe 
the  attitudes  of  other  peoples  toward 
our  country.  I  am  convinced  that  what 
we  of  America  need  first  and  foremost 
in  our  relations  with  foreign  nations, 
and  as  a  basic  essential  to  their  friend- 
liness, is  respect,  not  respect  born  of  fear 
of  our  great  military  prowess,  our  eco- 
nomic production,  nor  envy  of  our 
widely  advertised  high  standard  of  liv- 
ing, but  respect  for  our  integrity,  our 
character,  through  the  conformity  of 
our  living  to  the  ideals  we  profess  and 
expound.  There  can  be  no  friendliness 
and  brotherhood  not  founded  on  mutual 
respect.  I  have  witnessed  the  distrust 
in  which  we  are  held  by  some  foreign 
peoples,  but  I  make  no  comment  as  to 
the  justification  for  it  because  it  might 
reflect  credit  or  discredit  in  places  where 


100 

Sunday,  October  4 

I  do  not  feel  competent  or  positioned 
to  judge,  but  I  do  feel  that  it  is  within 
my  province  and  my  duty  to  point  out 
to  our  own  people  and  to  our  fellow 
Americans  the  discrepancies  between 
American  ideals  and  practices,  which 
account  in  large  measure  for  our  in- 
ability to  win  the  confidence  and  true 
friendships  of  many  of  those  whose  co- 
operation we  so  urgently  need  in  the 
crises  now  confronting  us. 

I  think  there  are  very  few  peoples  in 
the  world  who  do  not  have  admiration 
for  the  concepts  of  liberty  and  freedom 
which  we  espouse.  The  founding  of 
the  Republic  has  been  an  inspiration 
to  the  oppressed  everywhere,  and  still  is, 
but  unfortunately  the  discrepancies  I 
have  briefly  mentioned,  and  will  here- 
after call  to  your  attention,  have  mili- 
tated immeasurably  against  its  influence 
for  good. 

While  in  South  America  a  few  years 
ago,  I  took  occasion  everywhere  I  went 
to  inquire  what  the  people  knew  about 
our  own  country.  I  speak  now  of  the 
common  people,  not  the  diplomats  and 
some  academic  researchers  who  have 
greater  opportunities  for  information. 
I  discovered  that  the  people  secured 
their  information  and  formed  their 
opinions  about  the  USA  in  large  meas- 
ure from  the  picture  shows  and  the 
magazines,  and  the  sensational  stories 
carried  by  the  publications  about  our 
gangsters  and  divorcees.  Most  unfor- 
tunately, the  finer  aspects  of  our  Amer- 
ican living  were  seldom  brought  to  their 
attention.  To  all  too  great  an  extent, 
they  picture  us  as  a  nation  of  law- 
breakers, extravagant  and  riotous  livers, 
and  violators  of  the  sanctity  of  the  home 
and  the  marriage  relation.  Are  these 
concepts,  whether  erroneously  acquired 
or  not,  conducive  to  the  building  of 
respect  for  us?  They  are  not.  Many  of 
us  are  prone  to  ascribe  our  difficulties  in 
Latin  American  countries  to  the  ambi- 
tions of  avaricious  dictators.  I  would 
not  say  that  there  is  some  basis  for 
this  position.  But  I  do  say,  without 
fear  of  successful  contradiction,  that 
there  would  be  infinitely  less  menace 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dau 

to  our  friendly  relations  with  our  neigh- 
bors to  the  south,  and  far  less  fertile 
ground  for  planting  the  seeds  of  in- 
surrection and  autocratic  controls  if  our 
friends  had  more  respect  for  our  char- 
acter, our  way  of  life,  and  our  con- 
sistency. Remember,  there  wouldn't 
be  sent  out  from  our  country  the  kind 
of  films  which  are  shown  throughout 
the  world  and  the  lurid  stories  of  our 
newspapers  and  magazines  if  there  was 
not  some  foundation  in  fact  for  their 
production.  That  is  the  pity  of  it  all. 
They  are  altogether  too  true. 

I  found  the  same  condition,  perhaps 
to  a  lesser  extent,  prevailing  in  Europe 
and  the  Near  East.  There  we  are 
judged,  as  all  over  the  world,  by  the 
way  we  advertise  ourselves,  and  un- 
fortunately, the  worst  segment  of  our 
society  constitutes  our  most  effective  ad- 
vertisers. 

Now  I  ask  you  to  observe,  as  one  of 
the  most  important  points  in  this  con- 
sideration, this  fact  that  the  values  in 
all  this  advertisement  and  education 
are  moral  values.  Although  some  of  our 
appraisers  are  not  fit  to  judge,  we  are 
nevertheless  judged  on  moral  standards. 
It  doesn't  bring  respect  to  the  accused 
even  if  the  accuser  has  to  admit  that  he 
himself  is  guilty  of  the  same  sins. 
Much  as  we  disparage  certain  ideologies, 
what  we  fear  most  is  the  ruthless 
malevolent  actions  of  immoral,  un- 
moral, and  Godless  men,  and  most  un- 
fortunately, there  may  be  some  justifi- 
cation for  the  other  side  to  question  our 
own  sincerity  and  consistency  in  moral 
purpose. 

I  am  aware  that  there  are  students 
of  world  problems  who  contend  that, 
after  all,  the  final  solutions  are  eco- 
nomic, that  if  people  are  well-fed, 
clothed,  and  housed,  they  will  be  peace- 
able and  happy.  I  am  not  converted 
to  this  view.  A  few  months  ago  I 
sat  at  a  luncheon  in  New  York  City 
with  a  man  who  had  given  forty  years 
of  his  life  as  a  missionary  in  Africa. 
He  was  acquainted  with  many  tribes 
and  peoples  of  what  we  call  the  Dark 
Continent  and  undoubtedly  had  had 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


101 


wide  opportunities  for  observation.  He 
told  us  that  among  all  these  tribes  he 
had  never  been  able  to  discover  a  word 
in  their  language  which  could  be  in- 
terpreted as  materialism,  as  opposed  to 
spirituality,  as  we  use  these  terms.  He 
said  that  everything  in  their  lives  from 
the  cradle  to  the  grave  transpires  on, 
to  them,  a  spiritual  basis.  Many  will 
say  that  they  are  crude,  backward,  ig- 
norant peoples,  but  I  pose  this  question 
for  you.  May  it  not  be  that  there  has 
been  providentially  preserved  for  them, 
from  ancient  lineage,  a  concept  of  life, 
which  in  the  mad  scramble  for  the 
earth's  bounties,  has  escaped  the  great 
host  of  their  sophisticated  brethren,  who 
have  attained  dominance  of  the  earth, 
and  who  are  now  being  rudely  awak- 
ened to  the  realization  that  all  their 
materialistic  striving  and  attainments 
may  bring  only  frustration  and  ruin? 

I  know  I  don't  have  to  argue  in  this 
company,  perhaps  not  with  many  of  my 
listeners,  for  the  recognition  of  moral 
and  spiritual  values  in  the  solution  of 
our  problems.  I  take  it  that  we  are  all 
gratified  from  time  to  time  to  hear  ex- 
pressions of  this  recognition  by  some  of 
the  leading  men  of  the  country  and  the 
world.  I  am  hesitant  to  say  a  word 
that  might  be  construed  in  disparage- 
ment of  such  statements,  but  I  am  con- 
strained to  question  a  little  from  time  to 
time  their  sincerity.  Is  spirituality  any- 
thing other  than  a  personal  attainment 
and  investiture?  Is  there  any  such 
thing  as  mass  morality?  The  Master 
taught  us  that  as  a  man,  not  the  masses, 
thinks,  so  is  he,  not  they.  It  is  true  that 
if  enough  individuals  are  convinced  of 
spiritual  realities,  they  can  greatly  in- 
fluence the  society  in  which  they  move, 
but  it  is  the  individual  and  not  the  mass 
mind  which  has  the  conviction. 

I  hope  you  will  approve  the  applica- 
tion which  I  make  of  this  principle. 
I  don't  believe  that  men  in  high  places, 
in  government,  in  business,  or  elsewhere 
can  successfully  divorce  their  private 
lives  from  their  public  declarations  and 
protestations.  Nor  do  I  believe  that 
women  who  attain  positions  of  emi- 


nence can  do  it  either.  We  often  speak 
of  the  gullible  public,  but  I  am  very 
much  inclined  to  think  that  there  is 
enough  of  discernment  in  this  public  to 
see  behind  the  idealistic  words  of  speaker 
or  writer,  the  consistency  of  perform- 
ance. I  note  with  growing  concern  the 
declination  of  governmental  appointing 
power  to  take  into  consideration  moral- 
ity, except  as  it  affects  stealing  and  trea- 
son. The  sooner  men  learn  that  they 
cannot  teach  virtue  without  living  it, 
the  quicker  we  will  attain  the  respect 
of  those  whose  co-operation  we  seek. 
And  what  is  even  more  important,  the 
sooner  we  will  bring  ourselves  to  our 
own  self-respect. 

You  will  gather  from  these  remarks 
that  I  would  subject  every  representa- 
tive of  the  American  people,  from  the 
small  community  level,  to  state,  na- 
tional and  international  position,  to  the 
scrutiny  and  test  of  virtuous,  moral 
standards.  I  would.  Some  will  say, 
you  are  discounting  the  value  of  brains 
and  "know-how"  in  this  intricate  busi- 
ness of  government  and  sociology.  I 
am  not.  I  stand  in  awe  in  the  presence 
of  a  great  mind  with  superior  intelli- 
gence devoted  to  human  welfare.  We 
are  greatly  dependent  upon  such  minds, 
but  if  I  had  to  make  a  choice,  which  I 
ought  not  to  have  to  make,  between 
talent  and  integrity,  I  would  choose 
integrity  and  virtue,  for  without  them 
we  are  lost. 

If  I  speak  of  things  which  are  per- 
haps to  a  considerable  extent  beyond  our 
control,  I  shall  be  accused  of  propagating 
visionary,  Utopian  ideas.  The  young 
minister  to  whom  I  referred  a  few  mo- 
ments ago  told  us  in  an  effective 
sentence  that  Christ  warned  that  we 
could  not  attain  perfection  in  life,  but 
he  also  admonished  that  we  never  cease 
to  strive  for  it.  Furthermore,  these  are 
not  basically  my  own  ideas,  although 
I  may  be  responsible  for  the  crude  way 
in  which  they  are  put.  They  emanate 
from  the  revelations  of  the  Lord.  How 
thankful  I  am  every  day  that  I  live 
that  we  are  not  left  wholly  to  rely  on 
the  reasoning  and  wisdom  of  men,  and 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

that  God  in  his  infinite  solicitude  for 
the  welfare  of  his  children  has  made 
available  his  own  wisdom  and  will  for 
the  guidance  of  humanity.  To  us,  my 
fellow  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ, 
has  been  committed  much  of  this  re- 
vealed wisdom  and  divine  guidance  for 
the  human  family.  This  is  a  precious 
possession,  a  pearl  of  great  price,  to 
be  forever  cherished  by  us  and  dissem- 
inated to  the  whole  family  of  the  Lord. 
This  revealed  knowledge  contains  the 
full  and  complete  answer  to  the  problem 
of  human  relations.  Within  it  there 
is  the  Lord's  wisdom  about  the  family, 
the  basic  unit  of  society,  the  com- 
munity, government  in  all  its  stages, 
from  the  most  limited  to  the  most 
comprehensive,  economics  and  property, 
brotherhood  and  peace,  and  most  im- 
portant of  all,  man's  relationship  to 
God,  his  heavenly  Father.  Intelligent, 
worldly-wise  men  have  reasoned  for 
years  about  these  problems.  They  are 
seemingly  still  as  far  from  solution  as 
in  ancient  days.  Think  for  a  moment 
of  the  contributions  to  be  made  in  mend- 
ing the  broken  homes  of  our  land  and 
protecting  the  children  from  delin- 
quency, crime,  and  ruin,  and  restoring 
to  marriage  its  sanctity,  and  to  the  home 
its  solidarity,  in  the  conservation  of  the 
human  resources  of  the  world.  Think 
of  the  concept  we  have  to  give  to  the 
world  of  the  dignity  of  the  individual, 
the  aristocracy  of  his  birth,  the  in- 
comparable goals  of  his  life,  and  the 
freedom  of  choice  to  attain  them.  Think 
of  the  help  we  can  give  to  the  cause  of 
brotherhood  in  the  earth  through  the 
recognition  of  the  Fatherhood  of  God 
and  the  bond  of  his  Holy  Priesthood, 
a  fraternity  whose  like  is  not  to  be 
found  in  all  the  associations  of  men. 
Think  what  it  would  mean  to  the 
worthiness  of  men  to  receive  the  in- 
spiration of  God,  if  all  were  to  accept 
the  concept  of  the  body  as  being  the 
tabernacle  of  the  Lord's  spirit  child 
resident  within  it.  I  cannot  enumer- 
ate all  the  glorious  principles  of  truth 
committed  to  our  custody.  If  we  are 
accused   of  presumption   in  claiming 


Third  Day 

custody  of  some  of  these  precious  truths 
about  life,  we  can  but  point  to  the 
revelations  which  have  brought  them  to 
us  and  charged  us  with  their  dissemina- 
tion. 

We  set  forth  the  word  of  God  as  we 
have  received  it.  We  claim  no 
monopoly  on  goodness,  Christian  vir- 
tue, and  the  love  of  Christ.  We  rejoice 
that  millions  of  his  adherents,  of  his 
children  throughout  the  world  revere 
his  holy  name  and  seek  to  follow  in 
his  ways  as  they  understand  them.  We 
know  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  strives  with 
men  for  their  uplift  and  betterment. 
We  are  not  despondent  about  human 
nature.  We  have  confidence  in  men 
and  women  the  world  over.  When  they 
shall  be  privileged  to  hear  the  full  truth 
of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord,  countless 
numbers,  under  the  influence  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  will  embrace  the  truth. 
What  the  world  needs  for  improvement 
in  human  relations  is  the  truth  and 
missionaries.  It  needs  missionaries  even 
more  than  soldiers,  great  as  may  be  the 
need  for  military  defense  of  our  homes 
and  our  liberties.  So  long  as  we  have 
to  have  soldiers,  I  wish  they  could  be 
missionaries  also,  missionaries  for  the 
finest  ideals  in  American  life,  mission- 
aries for  integrity,  virtue,  and  the  great 
character  that  has  brought  about  the 
best  in  the  life  of  the  Republic.  How 
much  good  they  could  do  all  over  the 
world  where  they  are  stationed  if  they 
would  so  live  as  to  counteract  the  influ- 
ence of  the  ugly  pictures  of  America 
which  are  presented  to  foreign  peoples 
in  ways  I  have  mentioned. 

Not  only  do  we  need  soldier  mis- 
sionaries, we  also  need  missionaries  who 
are  ministers  of  the  gospel  of  Christ, 
with  information,  power,  and  testimony 
to  give  to  the  people  of  the  world  a 
thorough  and  complete  understanding 
of  the  glorious  blessings  he  holds  out 
to  the  faithful  and  true.  I  hope  I  will 
not  be  out  of  the  bounds  of  propriety 
and  that  I  will  give  no  offense  when  I 
make  an  appeal  to  the  draft  boards  of 
our  states  to  give  consideration  to  the 
invaluable    services    which    may  be 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


103 


rendered  by  devoted  ministers  of  religion 
in  the  promotion  of  spirituality  among 
our  own  people  and  those  of  foreign 
lands.  The  Congress  has  recognized 
by  the  enactment  of  law  this  essential 
feature  in  our  national  life  and  activi- 
ties. Exemption  has  been  declared  for 
ministers  of  religion  from  certain  mili- 
tary obligations.  We  are  keenly  aware 
of  problems  confronting  draft  boards  in 
some  of  the  determinations  they  are 
obliged  to  make.  These  men,  loyal  and 
devoted  citizens  of  the  country,  serving 
without  pay,  have  the  thankless  task 
of  making  selections  under  the  selective 
service  act.  In  communities  where  our 
people  reside  in  numbers,  they  are  con- 
fronted with  some  problems  which 
probably  do  not  arise  in  other  sections. 
The  missionary  system  employed  in  the 
Church  probably  has  no  counterpart 
outside  the  areas  where  our  people  live. 
We  have  no  professional  clergy,  as  other 
churches  do,  and  in  a  sense  we  have 
no  laity,  for  all  bearing  the  priesthood 
are  charged  with  ministerial  responsi- 
bilities. The  missionaries,  for  whom  we 
claim  exemption  as  provided  by  law, 
do  not  serve  in  legal  ministerial  capacity 
for  life,  but  for  very  limited  periods. 
After  limited  ministerial  service,  they 
are  all  instructed  to  report  immediately 
to  draft  boards  for  their  disposition. 
May  we  take  this  opportunity  of  ex- 
tending, on  behalf  of  the  people  of  the 
Church,  our  thanks  and  appreciation  for 
the  understanding  cooperation  given  to 
our  program  by  the  draft  boards  of 
many  of  the  states  in  which  our  people 
reside.  In  this  connection,  on  behalf 
of  the  First  Presidency,  I  should  like 
to  take  the  liberty  of  publicly  express- 
ing our  thanks  and  gratitude  to  Gen- 
eral Lewis  B.  Hershey,  national  head 
of  Selective  Service  at  Washington,  D. 
C.  His  uniformly  courteous  and 
sympathetic  consideration  of  our  prob- 
lems has  been  deeply  appreciated.  I 
wish  to  assure  General  Hershey  and  all 
of  you  that  by  this  public  statement  of 
appreciation  we  intend  no  inference  to 
be  drawn  of  an  endorsement,  or  the  ap- 
proval of  other  selective  service  officials, 


beyond  that  which  they  have  expressly 
given  to  our  program  by  official  action 
or  written  communication. 

And  now,  my  dear  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, I  speak  no  idle  words  when  I  give 
you  assurance  that  we  are  in  a  position 
to  make  an  inestimable  contribution 
to  the  betterment  of  human  relations  in 
this  anxious,  distracted  world.  We  are 
a  relatively  small  group  among  the 
populations  of  the  earth,  but  we  are 
not  reliant  only  on  ourselves  and  our 
own  strength.  God  is  at  the  helm  of 
this  ship,  which  is  his  kingdom,  sailing 
through  troubled  waters.  He  has 
charted  the  course.  He  has  chosen  the 
pilot,  his  servant,  tested  and  true,  to 
keep  us  on  course.  This  ship,  like  the 
ark  of  old,  bears  all  the  essentials  for 
the  re-establishment  of  the  personal 
reign  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
earth,  and  the  essentials  for  the  exalta- 
tion of  man  in  the  celestial  presence  of 
God  the  Father  and  the  Son.  This 
ship  will  eventually  come  to  its  point  of 
refuge  in  the  harbor  of  a  peaceful 
world.  With  all  my  soul,  I  plead  with 
you,  my  beloved  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  stay  with  the  ship,  lend  a  helping 
hand,  and  persuade  as  many  of  our 
Father's  children  as  you  can  possibly 
reach  to  avail  themselves  of  the  safety, 
the  security,  and  the  glorious  promise 
awaiting  all  who  cleave  unto  the  Lord, 
our  Master  and  Deliverer.  With  in- 
expressible gratitude  for  his  countless 
blessings,  I  invoke  upon  you,  his  Church, 
and  all  his  children,  his  holy  and  divine 
benedictions,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
President  Stephen  L  Richards,  mem- 
ber of  the  Quorum  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church. 

Elder  George  Q.  Morris  will  please 
come  to  the  rostrum. 

In  addition  to  the  prominent  edu- 
cators named  at  the  opening  of  the 
meeting,  we  are  pleased  to  extend  wel- 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  4  Third  Dai/ 

come  to  Dr.  John  L.  Clarke,  President  aid,  President  of  the  Los  Angeles  State 

of  Ricks  College,  Dr.  Darrel  Chase,  College. 

President  of  the  Branch  Agricultural  Elder  George  Q.  Morris,  Assistant  to 

College  at  Cedar,  Dr.  Howard  McDon-  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 

ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  DEAR  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  I  thank 
the  Lord  for  the  privilege  of  being 
one  with  you  here  this  morning, 
and  during  this  whole  glorious  confer- 
ence. I  pray  earnestly  that  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  may  direct  all  that  I  shall 
say. 

I  have  been  impressed  as  I  have  looked 
out  over  this  audience  and  been  con- 
scious of  the  atmosphere  of  this  great 
Tabernacle  and  listened  to  the  impres- 
sive and  inspired  testimonies  and  ex- 
hortations that  have  been  given,  that 
this  is  truly  an  historic  and  sacred 
building.  Here  for  nearly  a  century  the 
word  of  God  has  been  preached  by  the 
authority  of  God,  proclaiming  the  last 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 
In  this  remarkable  building,  so  unique 
in  its  structure,  so  simple,  with  the  ab- 
sence of  all  the  ornamental  and  gilded 
appointments  of  great  cathedrals,  hum- 
ble, brave,  and  devoted  men  and  women 
have  met  to  worship  God.  One  promi- 
nent feature  in  this  building  is  the 
great  organ,  and  the  choir  seats,  from 
which,  as  the  choir  occupy  them,  the 
glorious  music  comes,  typical  of 
harmony  and  heaven.  The  feature  per- 
haps of  greatest  significance  is  this 
stand — this  series  of  pulpits — a  token 
of  the  priesthood  of  God,  for  here  is 
assembled  this  morning  the  authoritative 
presiding  servants  of  God  in  this  last 
dispensation,  men  chosen  of  him,  who 
possess  the  power  and  authority  to  speak 
in  the  name  of  almighty  God. 

As  President  Richards  was  speaking  of 
the  world  situation  and  of  our  relation 
to  it,  I  could  not  help  feeling,  though 
it  may  seem  presumptuous  and  some 
may  take  offense,  that  this,  neverthe- 
less, is  the  spiritual  capitol  of  this 
world.    From  here  God  speaks  to  this 


world,  and  his  Authorities  are  officially 
seated  this  day  in  this  sacred  Tabernacle, 
and  their  word  is  binding  on  all  the 
world;  and  they  are  calling  this  world 
to  repentance,  to  accept  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  only  power  in  the 
world  that  will  save  it,  that  will  enable 
men  and  women  to  shape  acceptable 
lives  before  our  Father  in  heaven.  Men 
and  women  by  it  are  led  to  love  the 
truth,  to  love  God  and  to  keep  his 
commandments,  and  by  their  example 
and  by  their  word,  spread  this  glorious 
gospel. 

I  have  before  me  a  very  simple  state- 
ment from  the  Prophet  Moroni,  I  think 
a  statement  of  very  great  significance. 
He  is  addressing  himself  to  this  genera- 
tion and  all  other  generations  where 
this  idea  prevails. 

And  again  I  speak  unto  you  who  deny 
the  revelations  of  God,  and  say  that  they 
are  done  away,  that  there  are  no  revela- 
tions, nor  prophecies,  nor  gifts,  nor  heal- 
ing, nor  speaking  with  tongues,  and  the 
interpretation  of  tongues; 

Behold  I  say  unto  you,  he  that  denieth 
these  things  knoweth  not  the  gospel  of 
Christ;  yea,  he  has  not  read  the  scrip- 
tures; if  so,  he  does  not  understand  them. 
(Mormon  9:7-8.) 

That  simple  statement  has  tremendous 
implications. 

That's  the  key  to  the  history  of 
Christendom  for  seventeen  centuries. 
Following  the  death  of  the  apostles, 
religious  leaders  set  up  the  principle 
which  persists  to  this  day — perhaps  to 
the  best  of  their  knowledge  and  under- 
standing—that revelation  had  ceased 
and  was  finished,  and  that  prophets  and 
apostles  were  things  of  the  past.  And 
that  is  in  itself  definite  and  conclusive 
proof  that,  so  far  as  the  world  is  con- 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


105 


cerned  during  seventeen  hundred  years, 
such  was  the  case.  For  when  revela- 
tion is  shut  off,  and  when  all  the 
preachers  of  religion  (and  this  is  and 
was  their  well-nigh  universal  opinion) 
deny  its  existence,  then  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God  is  not  there,  and 
has  not  been  during  this  eclipse  of 
seventeen  hundred  years;  and  that  is  the 
simple  reason  why  men  did  not  know 
what  the  gospel  was,  and  why,  conse- 
quently, when  they  read  the  scriptures 
they  could  not  understand  them  be- 
cause they  are  only  understood  by  the 
spirit  and  power  by  which  they  were 
written.  The  ministrations  of  the  au- 
thorized servants  of  God  produce  scrip- 
ture; the  scripture  cannot  produce  au- 
thorized ministers  of  God,  nor  authority 
to  preach,  nor  are  they  bringing  new 
revelations  to  a  living  Church.  That 
must  be  done  by  living  oracles.  And 
they  were  killed  off.  The  world  would 
not  accept  them.  The  world  would  not 
accept  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  himself; 
he  was  crucified.  And  then  his  Apostles, 
chosen  and  sent  out  to  preach  the  gos- 
pel to  the  world,  in  the  main,  met  the 
same  fate.  Revelation  did  cease,  and 
the  world  went  into  an  eclipse,  a  spir- 
itual eclipse — seventeen  hundred  years 
of  darkness.  Men  were  left  to  them- 
selves to  do  the  best  they  could.  But 
no  man  knows  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  by  his  natural  wisdom,  nor  by  the 
wisdom  and  learning  of  the  world.  It 
must  be  taught  by  one  sent  of  God.  No 
man  knew  how  the  Church  should  be 
set  up  and  organized,  how  its  priesthood 
should  function,  nor  what  priesthood  is. 
There  was  no  priesthood  operating  for 
them  to  see  or  be  instructed  by  and  no 
organized  church  for  them  to  see  in 
operation  during  this  seventeen  hundred 
years  of  darkness  and  of  night.  There 
was,  for  perhaps  a  century  or  so,  the 
afterglow  of  a  sunset  as  this  night  set 
in,  a  reflection  from  the  ministry  of 
the  Savior  and  his  Apostles,  but  then 
darkness  came.  Churches  were  estab- 
lished by  men  not  called  of  God  (as 
the  Apostle  Paul  said,  "Having  a  form 
of  godliness,  but  denying  the  power 


thereof"  [2  Tim.  3:5]),  and  doctrines 
were  formulated  without  authority,  and 
the  significant  and  unhappy  thing  is  that 
the  prevailing  doctrines  of  Christendom 
today  found  their  origin  in  this  spiritual 
darkness.  Unfortunately,  they  still  per- 
sist. 

But  later  on  after  what  historians  in 
general  agreement  have  called  the  Dark 
Ages,  when  these  doctrines  were  being 
crystallized  into  creeds  and  man-made 
churches  were  increasing,  the  dawn  be- 
gan to  break.  The  first  rays  of  light 
appeared  with  the  development  of  hu- 
man freedom  and  the  enlightenment  of 
the  human  mind  in  the  Renaissance, 
and  with  the  discovery  of  America — 
America,  the  Promised  Land — which  in 
the  providences  of  God  had  been  held 
in  reserve,  hidden  from  men,  on  which 
it  was  his  declared  purpose  to  set  up 
a  free  government,  so  that  he  might  re- 
store again  the  kingdom  of  God  to  the 
earth.  And  the  sun  arose,  and  the  night 
was  past,  and  this  Church,  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
was  set  up  in  the  earth.  All  this  the 
scriptures  had  clearly  foretold. 

Three  very  important  things  occurred. 
I  will  mention  them  in  just  the  moment 
of  time  remaining.  First  of  all,  and 
most  essential,  God  again  revealed  him- 
self to  man.  The  Father  and  the  Son 
stood  in  the  presence  of  a  fourteen-year- 
old  boy  and  talked  with  him.  He  saw 
these  celestial  Personages.  He  heard 
their  heart-penetrating  voices.  He  re- 
ceived their  glorious  instructions.  That 
swept  away  all  the  erroneous  ideas,  the 
false  teachings  and  conceptions  as  to 
the  identity  and  nature  of  God,  and 
restored  the  true  and  living  God  to  the 
knowledge  of  man.  The  second  thing 
was  that  new  scripture  was  brought 
forth.  The  Book  of  Mormon  was  given 
to  the  world  by  the  power  of  God, 
containing  a  fulness  of  the  gospel,  which 
explains  gospel  doctrines  and  teachings 
and  substantiates  the  teachings  of  the 
Bible  and  makes  possible  their  correct 
interpretation.  Also  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  a  volume  of  revelations 
was  brought  forth,  containing  today's 


106 

Sunday,  October  4 

instructions  of  God  to  his  Church.  And 
then,  third,  was  restored  the  priesthood 
of  God,  which  exists  in  his  Church  in 
all  generations,  and  is  the  power  of 
God  which  administers  the  gospel  and 
manifests  godliness  to  men  in  the  flesh. 
Without  this  priesthood  the  Church 
of  God  does  not  and  cannot  exist. 

The  absence  of  these  three  things  had 
brought  on  the  dark  ages.  They  were 
now  restored,  and  the  sun  has  again 
risen.  The  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God  is  here.  Its  sun  is  in  the  heavens 
to  be  seen  by  all  men  who  will  open 
their  eyes  to  see  its  light,  and  here  is  its 
center  place  in  the  tops  of  the  Rocky 
Mountains.  May  God  help  us  to  live 
its  principles  and  proclaim  its  doctrines 
and  devote  our  lives  and  our  means 
and  all  that  we  have  and  are  to  the 
establishment  of  this  cause  in  the  earth 
for  the  happiness  and  the  salvation  of 
mankind.  I  humbly  bear  witness  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  and  Joseph  Smith  was  his 
prophet,  and  through  them  this  Church 
has  come  into  existence  and  will  con- 
tinue, and  no  power  can  stay  it,  for  by 
the  power  of  God  it  will  cover  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

earth,  and  Jesus  Christ  will  come  and 
reign  in  the  world.  May  God  give  us 
power  to  be  true  to  this  great  revelation 
of  truth,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  George  Q.  Morris,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us. 
The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now 
sing,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High."  We  in- 
vite all  who  are  listening  in  to  join 
in  spirit  and  where  practicable  and 
feasible,  in  song,  as  the  Choir  and 
congregation  now  led  by  Brother  Rich- 
ard P.  Condie  sing  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High." 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn,  "O,  Ye  Mountains  High." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Matthew  Cowley,  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  now 
address  us.  Elder  Cowley  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion. 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1 trust,  my  brothers  and  sisters  and 
friends,  that  I  may  be  able  to  round 
out  my  thoughts  in  a  fluency  of  ex- 
pression that  will  carry  conviction  to 
all  of  you  who  are  listening.  To  enable 
me  to  do  that,  I  must  plead  for  an 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers.  I 
believe  it  was  William  Jennings  Bryan 
who  once  said  that  true  eloquence  is 
from  the  heart  to  the  heart,  and  not 
from  the  mouth  to  the  ear.  By  that 
standard  of  eloquence,  if  there  is  any 
eloquence  in  what  I  may  say,  I  assure 
you  that  it  will  be  the  eloquence  of  the 
heart  and  not  the  eloquence  of  the  prop- 
erly chosen  phrase  or  the  well  modu- 
lated voice. 

I  believe  implicitly  in  the  efficacy  of 
prayer.    Even  as  I  stand  before  you  I 


believe  in  the  power  of  God  to  instil 
within  my  heart  those  thoughts  which 
may  be  for  your  benefit,  or  for  at  least 
the  benefit  of  some  of  you  who  may  be 
praying  to  hear  something  which  you 
need. 

When  President  Richards  was  speak- 
ing so  eloquently,  especially  about  the 
sanctity  of  the  home  and  the  solidarity 
of  the  family,  my  mind  raced  back  to 
my  early  childhood  to  a  home  which 
to  me  was  sacred  always,  and  to  a 
family,  the  solidarity  of  which  was  pre- 
served mostly  by  the  family  prayers.  I 
thank  God  that  in  my  infancy  I  knelt 
in  a  circle,  in  a  humble  home,  night 
and  morning  with  my  parents,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  and  each  in  his 
turn  invoked  the  blessings  of  God  upon 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


107 


the  family.  I  am  grateful  that  I  learned 
to  pray  in  my  infancy  because  I  had 
only  passed  from  infancy  when  I  was 
called  as  a  missionary  to  the  uttermost 
bounds  of  the  earth;  I  had  just  turned 
seventeen.  I  was  called  to  faraway 
New  Zealand,  and  in  that  mission  I 
was  assigned,  without  a  companion,  to 
one  of  the  most  humble  places  I  have 
ever  seen  in  all  my  life,  one  of  the  most 
poverty-stricken  places,  and  in  that  lit- 
tle village,  I  had  to  pray.  I  was  there 
but  a  few  days  when  a  woman  came 
rushing  to  my  room,  and  I  have  a  pic- 
ture of  that  room — no  floor,  just  the 
ground  with  a  woven  mat  and  a  blanket 
or  two.  She  came  rushing  to  that  room 
and  asked  me  to  arise  from  my  bed  and 
hurry  to  her  little  hut,  and  when  I 
arrived  there,  I  found  her  companion 
lying  on  the  ground,  being  consumed 
by  the  fire  of  typhoid  fever.  All  I 
could  do  was  pray;  and  I  knelt  beside 
that  suffering  native  and  I  prayed  to 
God,  and  opened  up  my  heart  to  him; 
and  I  believe  the  channel  was  open;  and 
then  I  placed  my  hands  upon  that  good 
brother;  and  with  the  authority  of  the 
priesthood  which  I  as  a  young  boy  held, 
I  blessed  him  to  be  restored  to  health. 
The  next  morning  the  wife  came  again 
to  my  room  and  said,  "If  you  have  any- 
where you  desire  to  go,  you  are  now 
free  to  go;  my  husband  is  up." 

I  remember  that  on  another  occasion 
I  rode  horseback  all  day  long  and  far 
into  the  night  to  arrive  at  a  native  vil- 
lage on  the  seacoast  of  New  Zealand, 
and  when  I  arrived  at  a  bay  dividing 
the  place  where  I  had  to  stop  and  that 
little  village,  I  made  a  fire  so  that  the 
people  across  in  the  village  would  send 
a  rowboat  to  get  me,  and  when  that 
boat  arrived,  I  was  taken  across  the  bay, 
and  I  walked  through  that  village,  and 
in  every  home  there  were  cases  of 
typhoid  fever.  But  I  walked  fearlessly, 
with  my  head  erect,  impelled  by  the 
priesthood  of  God  which  I  held,  and 
in  each  of  those  homes  I  left  the  bless- 
ings of  heaven,  and  I  laid  my  hands 
upon  the  sick.  And  then  I  had  to  go 
across  the  bay  again  and  get  on  my 


horse  and  ride  all  night  long  to  arrive 
at  another  native  village  where  there 
was  sickness. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  we  are  at  our 
greatest,  not  only  in  the  sight  of  God, 
but  also  in  our  own  sight  when  we  are 
upon  our  knees.  We  have  heard 
tributes  paid  here  to  the  leaders  of  this 
Church,  these  great  men  who  stand 
before  you  every  six  months  and  mani- 
fest to  you  their  great  leadership,  but 
never  have  they  been  raised  to  greater 
heights  of  leadership  than  when  I  have 
knelt  with  them  in  the  temple  of  God 
and  listened  to  each  one  open  up  his 
heart  and  appeal  to  God  for  his  sus- 
taining influence  and  power  to  enable 
Him  to  carry  on  as  your  servant  in 
His  divine  ministry.  How  high,  brothers 
and  sisters,  these  men  are  raised  when 
they  are  on  their  knees  in  a  circle, 
claiming  sanctuary  from  the  outside 
world  in  God's  holy  temple. 

President  Richards  mentioned  about 
servicemen  being  missionaries.  It 
brought  to  mind  that  statement  which 
we  have  heard,  that  an  army  marches 
upon  its  stomach.  I  feel  that  the  day 
is  not  far  off  when  our  armies  will  have 
to  arise  from  their  stomachs  and  march 
upon  their  knees.  No  iron  curtain  can 
ever  be  drawn  between  heaven  and 
earth  when  the  armies  of  men  will 
march  upon  their  knees.  The  great 
marches  of  this  nation,  the  great  marches 
of  progress  in  the  history  of  this  coun- 
try have  been  marches  behind  the 
leadership  of  men  who  went  to  their 
knees.  Never  was  George  Washington 
as  great,  in  all  of  his  majestic  power  as 
a  soldier,  as  when  he  was  upon  his 
knees  at  Valley  Forge.  Never  was 
the  great  emancipator  so  great  as  when 
he  was  driven  to  his  knees  before 
Gettysburg.  And  the  greatness  of  this 
nation,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  has 
been  because  men  who  have  been 
elected  to  high  office  in  this  country 
have  never  been  too  proud  to  go  to 
their  knees  and  invoke  the  power  of 
heaven  to  sustain  them  in  their  great 
jobs  and  callings  of  leadership. 

A  prayer  comes  to  my  mind,  and  no 


108  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  4 

more  beautiful  prayers  were  ever  ut- 
tered than  those  uttered  by  our  mothers. 
I  recall  the  prayer  of  Hannah.  You 
remember  Hannah  who  wanted  a  child, 
and  she  went  to  the  sanctuary  to  pray, 
but  her  prayer  was  not  audible.  Her 
lips  moved,  but  she  said  nothing  that 
could  be  heard,  and  Eli  thought  that 
she  was  intoxicated,  and  he  reprimanded 
her,  but  then  she  convinced  him  that 
that  which  she  was  doing  was  not 
because  of  intoxication,  but  it  was  a 
prayer  from  her  heart  to  God  that  she 
might  bear  a  child.  And  how  earnest 
she  was  in  that  prayer,  so  earnest,  so 
sincere,  that  she  said,  "If  God  will  give 
me  this  child,  I  will  lend  him  to  the 
Lord  for  this  life."  (See  I  Sam.  1:11.) 
How  well  the  mothers  know  that  life 
is  eternal.  How  well  she  knew  that  in 
lending  this  child  to  the  Lord  for  this 
life,  that  beyond  and  down  through  the 
ages  of  eternity,  he  would  be  her  child, 
and  she  would  be  his  mother.  The 
Bible  is  full  of  great  prayers  and  the 
stories  of  great  prayers. 

The  prophets  have  all  been  close  to 
God  when  they  have  been  upon  their 
knees;  and  that  which  they  have  said 
in  all  of  their  greatness  and  power  as 
they  stood  upon  their  feet  was  because 
they  first  had  gone  to  their  knees,  and 
then  when  they  arose,  God  spoke 
through  them.  From  Gethsemane  to 
Calvary,  Christ  was  a  living  prayer.  He 
groaned  within  himself;  he  pleaded  with 
his  God;  he  had  a  wish  that  the  cup 
might  pass  from  him,  but  then  he  ut- 
tered those  words  which  should  attend 
every  prayer  offered  up  to  heaven,  "... 
not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done."  (Luke 
22:42.)  And  then  on  Calvary,  as  he 
was  hanging  upon  the  cross,  he  uttered 
that  prayer  of  prayers,  "Father,  forgive 
them;  for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 
(Ibid.,  23:34.) 

We  have  heard  the  prayer  of  the 
Prophet  referred  to  this  morning.  Here 
was  a  young  lad  who  believed  in  a 
promise  that  if  any  man  lacked  wisdom 
and  would  ask  of  God,  it  would  be 
given  to  him;  and  in  response  to  that 
injunction  he  took  himself  ,  out  into  that 


Third  Day 

grove,  away  from  the  superficial  struc- 
tures of  men,  and  he  didn't  stand  look- 
ing into  heaven;  he  bowed  upon  the 
bended  knees  of  his  body,  and  he  of- 
fered up  his  prayer  to  God  his  Father  to 
bring  clearness  of  vision  to  his  mind, 
to  divest  from  his  mind  the  confusion 
which  existed  there  pertaining  to  re- 
ligion. How  can  people  doubt  that 
God  heard  that  prayer?  Anyone  who 
would  question  that  God  heard  the 
prayer  of  that  boy  must  believe  that 
the  Father  in  heaven  is  cruel  and  shuts 
himself  away  from  his  children  when 
they  seek  him.  But  he  did  hear  that 
prayer,  and  as  Elder  Morris  has  men- 
tioned, the  light  burst  from  heaven; 
down  through  that  channel  of  light 
came  the  Father  and  the  Son.  Young 
people,  if  you  prayed  for  your  father 
to  come  in  your  hour  of  need,  would 
he  hide  from  you?  Of  course  not. 
Neither  will  our  Father  who  is  in 
heaven  hide  from  us  who  seek  him  out. 

God  grant  that  we  may  always  have 
the  spirit  of  prayer  in  our  hearts. 

I  love  to  sit  among  these  great  men, 
men  who  have  a  profound  knowledge  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  will  never 
have  the  knowledge  of  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  as  profound  as  they  have 
because  I  can't  get  myself  past  the  first 
principles.  But  I  know  how  to  pray, 
and  I  tell  you  no  man  knows  himself 
until  he  has  broken  his  heart  before 
God  on  his  knees  and  pleaded  for  his 
forgiveness.  How  I  enjoy  my  friends 
who  belong  to  Alcoholics  Anonymous, 
men  who  have  descended  so  low  in  de- 
generacy that  as  one  of  them  has  said, 
they  have  to  look  up  to  see  the  bottom 
of  the  gutter.  But  then  they  discover 
that  there  is  a  power  beyond  that  can 
bring  them  help.  In  their  meetings 
they  always  offer  this  prayer,  "God  grant 
me  the  serenity  to  accept  the  things  I 
cannot  change,  the  courage  to  change 
the  things  I  can,  and  the  wisdom  to 
know  the  difference."  But  each  one 
testifies  that  he  has  opened  his  heart 
to  God,  and  that  deep  down  in  the 
recesses  of  that  heart,  which  has  almost 
been  blackened  by  lives  thrown  away 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BEN N ION 


109 


with  reckless  abandon,  he  has  found 
a  spark  of  divinity,  and  that  divine 
within  has  reached  up  for  the  divine 
beyond,  and  then  there  has  come  a 
regeneration  of  his  life,  and  he  is  led 
back  to  sobriety.  But  he  continues  to 
pray.  That  he  must  never  cease  doing. 
And  I  was  talking  to  one  of  them  re- 
cently who  was  a  neighbor  of  mine 
during  my  childhood  days  right  over 
here .  across  the  block,  and  he  said  to 
me,  "You  know,  if  I  hadn't  had  the 
fortification  of  the  prayers  of  my  mother 
when  I  was  a  boy  in  that  home,  I  am 
sure  that  even  now  my  own  prayers 
would  not  be  heard.  But  I  was  fortified 
by  that  mother's  prayers,  and  down 
through  the  years  as  I  went  astray,  I 
could  never  divest  from  my  mind  the 
image  of  my  mother  upon  her  knees, 
with  her  children,  and  asking  God  to 
bless  us.  Now  I  have  turned  my  life 
back  to  God,"  and  he  said,  "I  hope  to 
live  to  see  the  day  when  I  can  be  worthy 
to  go  where  my  mother  is." 

Some  people  think  it  is  a  sign  of 
weakness  to  get  upon  one's  knees  and 
pray  to  our  heavenly  Father.  It's  the 
greatest  sign  of  strength  that  exists. 
No  men  are  greater  than  when  they 
are  upon  their  knees  in  communion  with 
God  and  having  a  sacred  interview 


with  him.  God  does  not  always  answer 
our  prayers  the  way  we  want  them  anr 
swered,  but  if  the  channel  is  open,-  I 
testify  to  you  that  he  answers  them  the 
way  they  should  be  answered,  and  those 
answers  are  for  Our  best  good  and  have 
an  eternal  and  everlasting  value. 

My  brethren  in  whose  council  I  sit, 
I  know  you  aire  men  of  God.  I  think 
of  the  Master  when  he  said  to  his 
disciples,  "You  have  not  chosen  me,  but 
I  have  chosen  you  and  ordained  you 
and  set  you  apart."  I  thank  you  for 
your  humility  because  in  that  humility 
you  have  been  magnified.  You  have 
been  called  from  the  profession  of  the 
law;  you  have  been  called  from  the 
great  field  of  education;  you  have  been 
called  from  industry.  You  did  not 
choose  him,  but  he  has  chosen  you  and 
is  sending  you  forth,  and  as  you  go 
forth  to  the  stakes  of  Zion  and  the 
wards  of  the  Church,  you  carry  with 
you  the  power  of  the  apostleship,  the 
power  of  the  priesthood  of  God  our 
Father. 

In  humility  I  thank  God  for  this  as- 
sociation I  have  with  you.  God  bless 
you,  and  bless  us  all,  as  we  minister 
to  the  people,  under  the  inspiration  of 
God  our  Father,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  friends:  This  is  a  won- 
derful conference.  The  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  here;  and  your  sustaining  faith 
and  fellowship  add  to  his  power.  To- 
gether we  witness  to  the  world  that  this 
is  God's  Church. 

I  should  be  ungrateful  and  ungracious 
if  I  did  not  express  appreciation  for 
the  blessings  of  the  last  six  months.  In 
a  varied  career,  these  months  have  been 
rich  beyond  compare  with  anything  else 
in  my  life.  The  kindliness  of  friends 
has  kept  a  lump  in  my  throat  most  of 
the  time,  and  in  the  spirit  of  what 
Brother  Cowley  has  just  said,  I  am 


here  today,  thariks  to  the  answer  to 
prayer.  It  is  an  inspiring  thing  to  be 
ordained  to  this  office  by  the  President 
of  this  Church — prophet,  seer,  and 
revelator.  That  day  I  shall  never  for- 
get. 

But  in  the  complications  that  attached 
to  trying  to  leave  one  job  and  under 
the  pressure  that  attaches  to  this  one, 
I  was  brought  low,  and  I  lay  for  five 
days  unable  to  move.  I  have  had  pains 
in  my  life,  but  I  think  these  were  a 
little  more  excruciating  than  anything 
I  had  known.  For  the  first  time  in  my 
life,  I  was  wholly  unable  to  move.  Now 
if  Brother  Lee  will  pardon  this  personal 


110 

Sunday,  October  4 

mention:  he,  with  these  other  brethren, 
are  men  of  God.  He  was  good  enough 
to  come  into  my  home.  He  could  bear 
you  witness  of  my  helplessness,  and 
in  part,  of  my  pain.  I  asked  him  for 
a  blessing,  which  he  gave  in  the  power 
that  is  his.  I  am  a  living  witness  to 
you  today,  and  I  bear  my  testimony 
humbly  and  gratefully,  the  next  morn- 
ing, after  a  night's  peaceful  rest,  I  arose 
and  walked.  I  bear  you  my  witness 
that  God  still  administers  in  the  affairs 
of  men,  and  his  servants  bearing  the 
priesthood  are  our  greatest  physicians. 

When  I  listened  to  that  statesmanlike 
declaration  this  morning  of  Brother 
[Stephen  L]  Richards,  I  wished  that  I 
might  have  the  genius  to  draw  upon 
the  same  source  of  inspiration,  to  bring 
to  the  individual  member  of  this 
Church  some  things  I  have  been  ponder- 
ing in  recent  weeks. 

Life  was  never  meant  to  be  a  holi- 
day. It  has  its  problems  and  its  per- 
plexities and  its  crises.  When  we  are 
children,  we  turn  to  our  parents  for 
sustaining  help.  Growing  into  matur- 
ity, we  turn  to  our  fellow  men  and  our 
leaders.  All  my  life  I  have  turned  to 
one  other  source — a  source  which  I  want 
to  commend  to  you.  You  have  had  it. 
I  hope  you  will  keep  it  always  and 
cherish  it. 

The  Master  of  mankind  came  to  teach 
us  how  to  live,  and  he  died  that  we 
might  be  resurrected  to  live  forever.  I 
find  my  finest  challenge,  as  I  find  my 
finest  hope,  as  I  turn  to  him  to  ask, 
"What  would  he  have  me  to  do?" 

Tribute  has  been  paid  to  our  leaders, 
and  I  wouldn't  flatter  them,  but  I  should 
like  to  express  an  appreciation.  Would 
you  come  to  understand  what  Jesus 
taught,  what  his  pattern  of  life  is,  then 
I  beg  you  to  contemplate  the  life  of  our 
President.  For  forty  years  I  have  been 
associated  with  him  and  have  felt  of  his 
spirit.  He  is  the  Christian  ideal — a  man 
who  has  the  capacity  to  translate  into 
daily  action  the  sublime  truths  of  him 
who  is  the  Redeemer  of  mankind. 

A  few  weeks  back  I  had  the  privilege 
of  listening  to  a  choir,  much  like  this 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dan 

choir  today  and  of  the  last  two  days. 
It  thrilled  me  so  that  their  singing  I 
cannot  forget.  You  have  sung  their 
song;  you  recall  its  wonderful  words: 

Jesus,  the  very  thought  of  thee 
With  sweetness  fills  my  breast: 
But  sweeter  far  thy  face  to  see 
And  in  thy  presence  rest. 

Nor  voice  can  sing  nor  heart  can  frame, 
Nor  can  the  memory  find 
A  sweeter  sound  than  thy  blest  name, 
O  Savior  of  mankind! 

Oh  hope  of  every  contrite  heart, 
O  joy  of  all  the  meek, 
To  these  who  fall  how  kind  thou  art! 
How  good  to  those  who  seek! 

Jesus,  our  only  joy  be  thou, 
As  thou  our  prize  wilt  be: 
Jesus,  be  thou  our  glory  now 
And  through  eternity. 

— Bernard  of  Clairvaux 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  out  across  the 
tomorrows,  in  the  problems  that  confront 
you,  I  commend  to  you  the  life  and  the 
thought  of  Jesus  Christ.  In  these  brief 
minutes  all  that  I  can  hope  to  do  is  to 
give  a  glimpse  of  one  or  two  things  in 
his  life,  a  suggestion  as  to  one  or  two 
things  that  he  taught,  and  then  the 
subsequent  witness  that  comes  to  us  be- 
cause we  are  Latter-day  Saints.  What- 
ever your  bringing  up  may  have  been, 
whatever  your  circumstances  may  now 
be,  please  remember  these  things: 
Jesus  was  born  away  from  home, 
to  be  cradled  in  a  manger.  I  think 
only  the  mothers  here  can  fully  ap- 
preciate what  that  means.  He  was  born 
the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  and 
if  there  may  be  those  who  have  diffi- 
culty in  reconciling  their  understanding 
that  he  was  not  born  of  Joseph,  I  beg 
of  you  to  remember  that  he  was  to  be 
the  Author  of  the  resurrection,  made  pos- 
sible because  of  the  divinity  that  was  in 
him,  born  into  him,  and  magnified 
throughout  all  his  existence. 

"And  the  child  grew,  and  waxed 
strong  in  spirit,  filled  with  wisdom:  and 
the  grace  of  God  was  upon  him."  (Luke 
2:40.)  I  have  always  been  impressed 
with  his  great  awakening  at  twelve. 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


111 


"And  all  that  heard  him  were  aston- 
ished at  his  understanding  and  an- 
swers." (Ibid.,  2:47.) 

And  then  as  President  McKay  pointed 
out  in  reference  to  his  great  temptation. 
After  forty  days  you  remember  he  came 
back,  and  he  "  . . .  returned  in  the  power 
of  the  Spirit ..."  (Ibid.,  4:14)  to  carry 
forward  his  great  ministry. 

In  the  last  six  months  I  have  read 
and  re-read  the  gospels.  Having  been 
called  to  be  a  witness  to  him,  I  made 
my  resolution  that  I  should  begin  by 
coming  a  little  more  fully  to  understand 
him  and  his  message.  You  remember 
that  "He  went  about  teaching  and 
preaching  and  doing  good."  What  he 
did — and  what  he  preached — constitute 
the  gospels.  Out  of  them  all,  let  me 
name  ten  which  you  may  well  ponder: 

1.  The  Beatitudes,  first  of  all,  which 
in  nine  short  verses  present  one  of  the 
most  comprehensive  statements  ever 
given  to  the  world: 

Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit:  for  their's 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

Blessed  are  they  that  mourn:  for  they 
shall  be  comforted. 

Blessed  are  the  meek:  for  they  shall  in- 
herit the  earth. 

Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger  and 
thirst  after  righteousness:  for  they  shall  be 
filled. 

Blessed  are  the  merciful:  for  they  shall 
obtain  mercy. 

Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart:  for  they 
shall  see  God. 

Blessed  are  the  peacemakers:  for  they 
shall  be  called  the  children  of  God. 

Blessed  are  they  which  are  persecuted 
for  righteousness'  sake:  for  their's  is  the 
kingdom  of  heaven. 

Blessed  are  ye,  when  men  shall  revile 
you,  and  persecute  you,  and  shall  say 
all  manner  of  evil  against  you  falsely,  for 
my  sake. 

Rejoice,  and  be  exceeding  glad:  for  great 
is  your  reward  in  heaven:  for  so  persecuted 
they  the  prophets  which  were  before  you. 
(Matthew  5:3-12.) 

2.  The  Golden  Rule,  than  which  there 
has  never  been  devised  a  better  principle 
for  human  relations  or  for  the  guidance 
of  the  individual  life: 


Therefore  all  things  whatsoever  ye  would 
that  men  should  do  to  you,  do  ye  even  so 
to  them:  for  this  is  the  law  and  the  prophets. 
(Ibid.,  7:12.) 

3.  The  Lord's  Prayer,  patterned  for  all 
mankind,  sung  beautifully  yesterday, 
couched  in  sixty-six  words: 

Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven,  Hallowed 
be  thy  name. 

Thy  kingdom  come.  Thy  will  be  done 
in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven. 

Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread. 

And  forgive  us  our  debts,  as  we  forgive 
our  debtors. 

And  lead  us  not  into  temptation,  but 
deliver  us  from  evil:  For  thine  is  the  king- 
dom, and  the  power,  and  the  glory,  for 
ever.   Amen.  (Ibid.,  6:9-13.) 

4.  The  spirit  of  the  Second  Mile: 

And  whosoever  shall  compel  thee  to  go 
a  mile,  go  with  him  twain.  (Ibid.,  5:41.) 

5.  His  idea  of  forgiveness  hinted  in 
the  phrase: 

Then  came  Peter  to  him,  and  said,  Lord, 
how  oft  shall  my  brother  sin  against  me, 
and  I  forgive  him?  till  seven  times? 

Jesus  saith  unto  him,  I  say  not  unto  thee, 
Until  seven  times:  but,  Until  seventy  times 
seven.  (Ibid.,  18:21-22.) 

6.  "Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged." 

For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye  shall 
be  judged:  and  with  what  measure  ye  mete, 
it  shall  be  measured  to  you  again. 

And  why  beholdest  thou  the  mote  that 
is  in  thy  brother's  eye,  but  considerest  not 
the  beam  that  is  in  thine  own  eye? 

Or  how  wilt  thou  say  to  thy  brother,  Let 
me  pull  out  the  mote  out  of  thine  eye;  and, 
behold,  a  beam  is  in  thine  own  eye? 

Thou  hypocrite,  first  cast  out  the  beam 
out  of  thine  own  eye;  and  then  shalt  thou 
see  clearly  to  cast  out  the  mote  out  of  thy 
brother's  eye.  (Ibid.,  7:1-5.) 

The  clearing  up  of  a  catastrophe  in 
this  city  in  the  last  few  days  should 
bring  a  solemn  realization  to  the  men 
and  women  of  this  state  and  community 
that  they  ought  not  carelessly  to  have 
unjustly  indicted  two  of  the  finest  peo- 
ple in  the  world  in  the  heretofore  un- 
solved tragedy  that  shocked  our  state. 


!L2 

Sunday,  October  4 

7.  "...  where  your  treasure  is,  there 
will  your  heart  be  also."  (Ibid.,  6:21.) 

8.  "  .  .  .  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of 
God  and  his  righteousness;  and  all  these 
things  shall  be  added  unto  you."  (Ibid., 
6:33.) 

9.  That  challenging  remark  to  all 
parents: 

Wherefore  by  their  fruits  ye  shall  know 
them.  (Ibid.,  7:20.) 

10.  Already  hinted  here  this  morning 
under  our  limitations  of  mortality,  but 
the  ideal  is  there: 

Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your 
Father  which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect.  (Ibid., 
5:48.) 

And  I  have  named  only  ten.  Would 
you  catch  the  spirit  of  them  further, 
I  suggest  that  you  compile  and  reread 
the  thirty-odd  parables.  And  then  if 
you  want  to  be  stirred,  stirred  all  the 
way  through,  read  with  these  parables, 
the  same  number  of  miracles,  and  you 
will  come  in  some  measure  to  catch  the 
spirit  of  this  great  Soul. 

It  is  singularly  tragic  that  after  all 
he  did  for  the  blessing  of  mankind,  he 
should  be  led  to  Calvary.  The  Master  of 
mankind  suffered  the  cruelest  death 
known  to  men.  And  whatever  our  diffi- 
culty may  be,  he  can  always  stand  by 
and  say  without  putting  it  into  words, 
"All  that  you  suffer,  I,  too,  have  suffered, 
and  more."  That  is  why  it  is  so  won- 
derful, as  one  of  my  soldier  friends  wrote 
me,  out  in  the  wastes  of  Alaska,  against 
the  odds  of  military  service,  "It's  so  won- 
derful always  to  have  someone  speak 
over  your  shoulder  who  understands." 

That  were  enough  for  any  man,  but 
as  Latter-day  Saints  we  have  two  other 
witnesses  which  I  needn't  take  the  time 
to  expand.  If  anybody  in  all  the  world 
should  appreciate  the  Master  of  man- 
kind, it  ought  to  be  Latter-day  Saints. 
Here  we  have  in  our  Book  of  Mormon 
the  account  of  his  appearance  to  those 
people  who  had  left  the  Old  World  six 
hundred  years  before  he  was  born,  with 
a  remnant  who  had  gone  far  earlier, 
how  he  appeared  to  them,  and  the  glory 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

of  it  all  is  that  he  appeared  after  he 
had  been  resurrected.  You  will  read  it 
one  day  in  Third  Nephi.  If  you  want 
to  be  touched  and  inspired  this  day,  I 
suggest  before  it  closes,  you  turn  to 
the  eleventh  chapter,  and  in  fancy  sit 
with  that  multitude  who  had  gathered 
in  the  land  of  Bountiful,  and  have  him 
appear,  because  he  came  to  declare  him- 
self, and  the  Father  attended  him  and 
they  heard  his  voice  saying, 

Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am 
well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have  glorified  my 
name— hear  ye  him.  (3  Nephi  11:7.) 

And  now  it  came  to  pass  that  there  were 
a  great  multitude  gathered  together,  of  the 
people  of  Nephi,  round  about  the  temple 
which  was  in  the  land  Bountiful;  and  they 
were  marveling  and  wondering  one  with 
another,  and  were  showing  one  to  another 
the  great  and  marvelous  change  which 
had  taken  place. 

And  they  were  also  conversing  about  this 
Jesus  Christ,  of  whom  the  sign  had  been 
given  concerning  his  death. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  while  they  were 
thus  conversing  one  with  another,  they 
heard  a  voice  as  if  it  came  out  of  heaven; 
and  they  cast  their  eyes  round  about,  for 
they  understood  not  the  voice  which  they 
heard;  and  it  was  not  a  harsh  voice,  neither 
was  it  a  loud  voice;  nevertheless,  and  not- 
withstanding it  being  a  small  voice  it  did 
pierce  them  that  did  hear  to  the  center, 
insomuch  that  there  was  no  part  of  their 
frame  that  it  did  not  cause  to  quake;  yea, 
it  did  pierce  them  to  the  very  soul,  and  did 
cause  their  hearts  to  burn. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  again  they  heard 
the  voice,  and  they  understood  it  not. 

And  again  the  third  time  they  did  hear 
the  voice,  and  did  open  their  ears  to  hear 
it;  and  their  eyes  were  towards  the  sound 
thereof;  and  they  did  look  steadfastly  to- 
wards heaven,  from  whence  the  sound 
came. 

And  behold,  the  third  time  they  did  un- 
derstand the  voice  which  they  heard;  and 
it  said  unto  them: 

Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am 
well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have  glorified  my 
name — hear  ye  him. 

And  it  came  to  pass,  as  they  understood 
they  cast  their  eyes  up  again  towards  heaven; 
and  behold,  they  saw  a  Man  descending  out 
of  heaven;  and  he  was  clothed  in  a  white 
robe;  and  he  came  down  and  stood  in  the 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


113 


midst  of  them;  and  the  eyes  of  the  whole 
multitude  were  turned  upon  him,  and  they 
durst  not  open  their  mouths,  even  one  to 
another,  and  wist  not  what  it  meant,  for 
they  thought  it  was  an  angel  that  had  ap- 
peared unto  them. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  he  stretched  forth 
his  hand  and  spake  unto  the  people,  saying: 

Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the 
prophets  testified  shall  come  into  the  world. 

And  behold,  I  am  the  light  and  the  life 
of  the  world;  and  I  have  drunk  out  of  that 
bitter  cup  which  the  Father  hath  given  me, 
and  have  glorified  the  Father  in  taking 
upon  me  the  sins  of  the  world,  in  the  which 
I  have  suffered  the  will  of  the  Father  in  all 
things  from  the  beginning. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  Jesus  had 
spoken  these  words  the  whole  multitude  fell 
to  the  earth;  for  they  remembered  that  it 
had  been  prophesied  among  them  that 
Christ  should  show  himself  unto  them  after 
his  ascension  into  heaven. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  Lord  spake 
unto  them  saying: 

Arise  and  come  forth  unto  me,  that  ye 
may  thrust  your  hands  into  my  side,  and 
also  that  ye  may  feel  the  prints  of  the 
nails  in  my  hands  and  in  my  feet,  that 
ye  may  know  that  I  am  the  God  of  Israel, 
and  the  God  of  the  whole  earth,  and  have 
been  slain  for  the  sins  of  the  world. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  multitude 
went  forth,  and  thrust  their  hands  into 
his  side,  and  did  feel  the  prints  of  the 
nails  in  his  hands  and  in  his  feet;  and 
this  they  did  do,  going  forth  one  by  one 
until  they  had  all  gone  forth,  and  did  see 
with  their  eyes  and  did  feel  with  their 
hands,  and  did  know  of  a  surety  and  did 
bear  record,  that  it  was  he,  of  whom  it 
was  written  by  the  prophets,  that  should 
come. 

And  when  they  had  all  gone  forth  and 
had  witnessed  for  themselves,  they  did 
cry  out  with  one  accord,  saying: 

Hosanna!  Blessed  be  the  name  of  the 
Most  High  God!  And  they  did  fall  down 
at  the  feet  of  Jesus,  and  did  worship  him. 
(Ibid.,  11:1-17.) 

And  if  you  are  inspired  to  do  a  little 
more  reading  this  same  evening,  turn 
over  to  the  seventeenth  chapter: 

Have  ye  any  that  are  sick  among  you? 
Bring  them  hither.  Have  ye  any  that  are 
lame,  or  blind,  or  halt,  or  maimed,  or 
leprous,  or  that  are  withered,  or  that  are 
deaf,  or  that  are  afflicted  in  any  manner? 


Bring  them  hither  and  I  will  heal  them, 
for  I  have  compassion  upon  you;  my  bowels 
are  filled  with  mercy. 

For  I  perceive  that  ye  desire  that  I  should 
show  unto  you  what  I  have  done  unto 
your  brethren  at  Jerusalem,  for  I  see  that 
your  faith  is  sufficient  that  I  should  heal 
you. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  he  had 
thus  spoken,  all  the  multitude,  with  one 
accord,  did  go  forth  with  their  sick  and 
their  afflicted,  and  their  lame,  and  with  their 
blind,  and  with  their  dumb,  and  with  all 
them  that  were  afflicted  in  any  manner; 
and  he  did  heal  them  every  one  as  they 
were  brought  forth  unto  him. 

And  they  did  all,  both  they  who  had  been 
healed  and  they  who  were  whole,  bow 
down  at  his  feet,  and  did  worship  him; 
and  as  many  as  could  come  for  the  multi- 
tude did  kiss  his  feet,  insomuch  that  they 
did  bathe  his  feet  with  their  tears. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  he  commanded 
that  their  little  children  should  be  brought. 

So  they  brought  their  little  children  and 
set  them  down  upon  the  ground  round 
about  him,  and  Jesus  stood  in  the  midst; 
and  the  multitude  gave  way  till  they  had 
all  been  brought  unto  him. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  they  had 
all  been  brought,  and  Jesus  stood  in  the 
midst,  he  commanded  the  multitude  that 
they  should  kneel  down  upon  the  ground. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  they  had 
knelt  upon  the  ground,  Jesus  groaned  within 
himself,  and  said:  Father,  I  am  troubled 
because  of  the  wickedness  of  the  people 
of  the  house  of  Israel. 

And  when  he  had  said  these  words,  he 
himself  also  knelt  upon  the  earth;  and 
behold  he  prayed  unto  the  Father,  and  the 
things  which  he  prayed  cannot  be  written, 
and  the  multitude  did  bear  record  who 
heard  him. 

And  after  this  manner  do  they  bear  rfc- 
ord:  The  eye  hath  never  seen,  neither  hath 
the  ear  heard,  before,  so  great  and  marvelous 
things  as  we  saw  and  heard  Jesus  speak  unto 
the  Father; 

And  no  tongue  can  speak,  neither  can 
there  be  written  by  any  man,  neither  can 
the  hearts  of  men  conceive  so  great  and 
marvelous  things  as  we  both  saw  and  heard 
Jesus  speak;  and  no  one  can  conceive  of 
the  joy  which  filled  our  souls  at  the  time 
we  heard  him  pray  for  us  unto  the  Father. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  Jesus 
had  made  an  end  of  praying  unto  the 
Father,  he  arose;  but  so  great  was  the  joy 
of  the  multitude  that  they  were  overcome. 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  Jesus  spake  unto 
them,  and  bade  them  arise. 

And  they  arose  from  the  earth,  and  he 
said  unto  them:  Blessed  are  ye  because  of 
your  faith.  And  now  behold,  my  joy  is 
full. 

And  when  he  had  said  these  words,  he 
wept,  and  the  multitude  bare  record  of  it, 
and  he  took  their  little  children,  one  by 
one,  and  blessed  them,  and  prayed  unto  the 
Father  for  them. 

And  when  he  had  done  this  he  wept 
again; 

And  he  spake  unto  the  multitude,  and 
said  unto  them:  Behold  your  little  ones. 

And  as  they  looked  to  behold  they  cast 
their  eyes  towards  heaven,  and  they  saw  the 
heavens  open,  and  they  saw  angels 
descending  out  of  heaven  as  it  were  in  the 
midst  of  fire;  and  they  came  down  and 
encircled  those  little  ones  about,  and  they 
were  encircled  about  with  fire;  and  the 
angels  did  minister  unto  them.  (Ibid.,  17:7- 
24.) 

Add  to  all  this  the  manifestation  of 
this  same  Jesus  to  the  boy  Prophet  in 
our  own  day.  Remind  yourselves  of  that 
great  vision: 

At  length  I  came  to  the  conclusion  that 
I  must  either  remain  in  darkness  and  con- 
fusion, or  else  I  must  do  as  James  directs, 
that  is,  ask  of  God.  I  at  length  came  to 
the  determination  to  "ask  of  God,"  con- 
cluding that  if  he  gave  wisdom  to  them  that 
lacked  wisdom,  and  would  give  liberally, 
and  not  upbraid,  I  might  venture. 

So,  in  accordance  with  this,  my  determina- 
tion to  ask  of  God,  I  retired  to  the  woods 
to  make  the  attempt.  It  was  on  the  morn- 
ing of  a  beautiful,  clear  day,  early  in  the 
spring  of  eighteen  hundred  and  twenty. 
It  was  the  first  time  in  my  life  that  I  had 
made  such  an  attempt,  for  amidst  all  my 
anxieties  I  had  never  as  yet  made  the  at- 
tempt to  pray  vocally. 

After  I  had  retired  to  the  place  where  I 
had  previously  designed  to  go,  having  looked 
around  me,  and  finding  myself  alone,  I 
kneeled  down  and  began  to  offer  up  the 
desire  of  my  heart  to  God.  I  had  scarcely 
done  so,  when  immediately  I  was  seized 
upon  by  some  power  which  entirely  overcame 
me,  and  had  such  an  astonishing  influence 
over  me  as  to  bind  my  tongue  so  that  I  could 
not  speak.  Thick  darkness  gathered  around 
me,  and  it  seemed  to  me  for  a  time  as  if 
I  were  doomed  to  sudden  destruction. 

But,  exerting  all  my  powers  to  call  upon 


Third  Day 

God  to  deliver  me  out  of  the  power  of 
this  enemy  which  had  seized  upon  me,  and 
at  the  very  moment  when  I  was  ready  to 
sink  into  despair  and  abandon  myself  to 
destruction — not  to  an  imaginary  ruin,  but 
to  the  power  of  some  actual  being  from 
the  unseen  world,  who  had  such  marvelous 
power  as  I  had  never  before  felt  in  any 
being — just  at  this  moment  of  great  alarm, 
I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly  over  my 
head,  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun, 
which  descended  gradually  until  it  fell  upon 
me. 

It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found  my- 
self delivered  from  the  enemy  which  held 
me  bound.  When  the  light  rested  upon 
me  I  saw  two  Personages,  whose  brightness 
and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake 
unto  me,  calling  me  by  name  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other — "This  is  My  Beloved 
Son.  Hear  Him!"  (P.  of  G.  P.,  Joseph 
Smith  2:13-17.) 

We  have  his  record  in  the  gospels. 
We  have  his  visitation  in  Third  Nephi. 
And  our  Church  rests  upon  the  fact 
that  he  has  come  to  declare  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  to  us  in  our  day  and  to 
restore  it.  I  give  you  my  witness  that 
he  has  so  restored  it.  I  join  with  these 
brethren  here,  the  honor  of  whose  as- 
sociation I  have  from  week  to  week,  in 
that  testimony.  New  among  them,  I 
bear  you  witness  they  are  strong  men; 
they  are  men  of  God;  and  you  can  with 
full  heart  sustain  them. 

I  always  face  a  group  of  people  like 
you,  wondering  when  this  conference 
is  all  over  what  you  will  do.  Today  I 
suggest  to  you,  as  a  sort  of  Christmas 
thought,  that  this  time  you  do  something 
about  it.  In  the  four  gospels  there  are 
only  eighty-nine  chapters  all  told.  With 
two  or  three  of  the  short  ones  tucked  in 
one  day,  if  you  really  would  catch  the 
spirit  of  this  conference,  I  suggest  that 
you  read  one  chapter  of  the  gospels 
each  day;  and  if  you  do  it  devotedly, 
you  will  have  read  again  these  great 
witnesses  by  Christmas  time.  And  come 
Christmas  this  year,  Santa  Claus  will 
not  be  able  to  crowd  out  Jesus,  and  the 
holiday  will  become  a  holy  day.  In 
the  few  minutes  that  it  takes,  morning 
or  noon  or  night — my  own  program  is 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


115 


to  read  at  least  one  of  these  chapters 
each  night  before  I  close  the  day — you 
will  find  the  key  to  great  spiritual  en- 
richment. Better  it  were  if  you  would 
read  the  chapter  together  as  a  family, 
and  I  give  you  the  promise  that  if  you 
do  it,  not  only  will  this  Christmas  be 
made  glorious,  but  every  day  of  your 
life  will  also  catch  the  spirit  of  these 
sacred  words. 

Now  in  the  resolution  of  your  heart 
let  me  challenge  you: 

Ninety  and  nine  are  with  dreams  content, 
But  the  hope  of  a  world  made  new 
Is  the  hundredth  man  who  is  grimly  bent 
On  making  that  dream  come  true. 

God  put  it  in  your  heart,  out  of  160 
million  people  in  America,  to  be  the 
hundredth  man  who  brings  himself  and 
his  family  close  to  the  Master  of  man- 
kind, the  guide  and  the  inspiration  of 
us  all,  into  whose  presence  one  day  we 
hope  to  return,  with  all  the  loved  ones 
whom  he  has  redeemed.  I  pray  his 
blessings  upon  you,  in  his  holy  name. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

For  your  information  and  for  an  in- 
tensifying of  the  realization  of  the  fact 
of  our  nearness  to  our  brethren  and 
sisters  and  friends  in  the  Northwest  I 
will  read  you  the  following  telegrams: 

From  Millbray,  California:  "The  tele- 
vision reception  on  the  Conference  over 
KVO-TV  is  excellent  in  the  San  Fran- 
cisco Bay  area.  We  are  most  grateful 
for  the  availability  of  this  great  serv- 


ice.   Paul  A.  Peterson,  Millbray,  Cal." 

From  San  Diego:  "We  are  viewing 
the  Conference  perfectly  in  San  Diego 
over  KNX-TV  Channel  2.  Shirl  Kim- 
ball." 

From  Portland,  Oregon:  "Reception 
by  television  coming  through  fine.  En- 
joying services.  God  bless  you.  More- 
land  Ward  Bishopric."   Portland  Stake. 

In  closing  may  I  say  just  a  word  of 
appreciation  of  our  choir  and  its  leader. 
We  are  glad  that  Brother  Cornwall  is 
sufficiently  restored  to  health  to  be 
back  with  us  and  attend  to  his  duties 
as  leader  of  the  Choir.  Carlyle  says 
that  appreciation,  or  the  veneration 
shown  to  human  worth,  is  a  Godlike 
virtue.  May  I  express  for  you  this  morn- 
ing that  virtue  in  expressing  apprecia- 
tion of  the  labors  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  They  have  been  here  since 
7:10  this  morning.  God  bless  them  for 
the  service  they  render,  not  only 
throughout  the  Conference,  but  through- 
out the  nation. 

The  closing  song  will  be  sung  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  "Jesus  Name  of 
Wondrous  Love."  How  appropriate! 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  James  Franklin  Peel,  President  of 
the  Oquirrh  Stake,  following  which  this 
Conference  will  stand  adjourned  until 
2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  as  a  clos- 
ing number,  "Jesus,  Name  of  Wondrous 
Love." 

Elder  James  Franklin  Peel,  President 
of  the  Oquirrh  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  great 
Conference  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle Sunday  afternoon,  October  4,  at 
2:00  p.m.,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 


Again  great  crowds  assembled  in  the 
Tabernacle,  the  Assembly  Hall  to  the 
south  of  the  Tabernacle,  and  in  Barratt 
Hall,  and  in  addition  a  great  number 
listened  to  the  services  on  the  Taber- 
nacle grounds. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  4 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  fur- 
nished the  choral  music  for  this  ses- 
sion. Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the 
organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

In  addition  to  the  prominent  educators 
mentioned  this  morning,  and  other  dis- 
tinguished visitors,  we  note  the  presence 
of  the  president  of  the  Weber  College, 
and  the  president  of  the  Snow  College, 
and  undoubtedly  there  are  others  whom 
we  have  not  yet  seen,  but  to  whom  we 
also  extend  cordial  welcome,  and  we 
are  pleased  to  have  you  with  us. 

The  members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  in  the 
concluding  session,  the  seventh  session 
of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-Fourth 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

For  those  who  are  unable  to  enter 
the  building — and  the  building  is 
crowded  to  capacity,  even  the  doorways 
are  filled — to  all  those  who  are  unable 
to  enter  the  Tabernacle,  we  announce 
that  these  services  are  being  broadcast 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt 
Hall  over  a  loud-speaking  system  and 
by  television. 

These  services  also  are  being  tele- 
vised over  KSL  television,  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  are  being  heard  over  radio  through 
KSL  over  19  radio  stations  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Arizona,  California,  Oregon, 
Washington.  The  names  of  these  sta- 
tions have  already  been  announced  to 
the  radio  audience. 

We  desire  to  express  our  deep  ap- 
preciation to  these  various  radio  sta- 
tions for  their  courtesy  and  contribution 
in  making  available  their  time  and 
facilities  for  these  broadcasts. 

In  addition  to  those  telegrams  of  ap- 
preciation read  this  morning,  you  will 
be  pleased  to  hear  these.  This  is  from 
Tacoma,  Washington: 


Third  Day 

"CONFERENCE  TELECAST  VIEW- 
ED IN  CHAPELS,  HOMES,  TACOMA 
STAKE  AND  VICINITY  APPRE- 
CIATED. Tacoma  Stake  Presidency, 
signed  by  Elijah  Dickson." 

This  from  Van  Nuys,  California: 
"RECEPTION  WONDERFUL.  A 
MOST  INSPIRING  PRIVILEGE. 
GOD  BLESS  YOU  ALL.  Curtis  McMul- 
lin,  counselor  to  Bishop  Cottam  in  the 
Sherman  Oaks  Ward." 

These  are  indicative  of  the  satisfac- 
tion and  blessing  these  radio  and  tele- 
vision officials  have  rendered  to  the 
members  of  the  Church  and  others  in 
the  northwest  and  on  the  western  coast. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  un- 
der the  direction  of  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  with  Elder  Alexander  Schrei- 
ner at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Choir  singing  "The  Pilgrim's  Chorus." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Thomas  W.  Muir,  president  of 
the  Emigration  Stake. 


The  Choir  sang:  "The  Pilgrim's 
Chorus." 

Elder  Thomas  W.  Muir,  President 
of  the  Emigration  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Surely 
He  Hath  Borne  Our  Griefs." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

For  those  of  our  listeners  who  prob- 
ably have  just  tuned  in  we  announce 
again  that  President  J.  Reuben  Clark, 
Jr.  of  the  First  Presidency  will  now 
present  the  General  Authorities,  General 
Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers 
of  the  Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of 
the  General  Conference. 

Those  who  are  listening  in,  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  cast  their  votes 
with  those  assembled. 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency, 
presented  for  the  vote  of  the  people  the  General  Authorities,  General  Officers,  and 
General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church,  and  they  were  unanimously  sustained 
by  those  present.  The  list  as  presented  and  sustained  is  as  follows: 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED 


117 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Harold  B.  Lee  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Marion  G.  Romney 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  LeGrand  Richards 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Matthew  Cowley  Richard  L.  Evans 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Thomas  E.  McKay  EIRay  L.  Christiansen 

Clifford  E.  Young  John  Longden 

Alma  Sonne  Hugh  B.  Brown 

George  Q.  Morris 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Marion  Duff  Hanks 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  4 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Matthew  Cowley 

Stephen  L  Richards  Henry  D.  Moyle 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Marion  G.  Romney 

Harold  B.  Lee  LeGrand  Richards 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Richard  L.  Evans 

Mark  E.  Petersen 

Administrator,  Board  of  Education 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 

Auditing  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner  Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

Harold  B.  Lee  Alma  Sonne 

Henry  D.  Moyle  El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Matthew  Cowley  John  Longden 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Marion  G.  Romney  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

LeGrand  Richards  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Thorpe  B.  Issacson 

Clifford  E.  Young  Carl  W.  Buehner 

General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 

Paul  C.  Child  W.  T.  Lawrence 

T.  C.  Stayner  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

Mark  B.  Garff  Walter  Dansie 

Leonard  E.  Adams  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

J.  Leonard  Love  Walter  Stover 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  119 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 
Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  Nebeker  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.:  Brother  Hanks,  will  you  please  take 

your  place  with  the  First  Council  of 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  I  am  able  Seventy, 

to  judge,  all  votes  were  cast  in  the  af-  Brother  Hugh  B.  Brown  is  in  Ed- 

firmative,  and  no  negative  votes  were  monton,  Alberta,  Canada.   We  were  in 

cast.  touch  with  him  last  evening  by  tele- 
phone. He  expressed  surprise,  but  when 

President  David  O.  McKay:  we  asked  his  attitude  he  said,  "I  have 

J  but  one  attitude.    When  the  Church 

We   have   just  heard    President   J.  calls,  my  answer  is  yes." 

Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the  First  Presi-  We  asked  whether  he  could  fly  from 

dency  present  the  General  Authorities,  Edmonton  to  Salt  Lake  to  be  here  in 

General  Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  time  for  this  session,  but  he  could  not 

Officers  of  the  Church.   We  thank  you  get  here  before  four  o'clock,  so  we  sug- 

brethren  and  sisters  for  your  unanimous  gested  that  he  remain  and  begin  to  put 

vote  in  the  affirmative.  his  affairs  in  order,  and  report  at  the 

Brother  Evans,  will  you  please  come  first  possible  convenience, 

forward  and  take  your  place.  I   told  him  we  would  express  to 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  4  Third  Day 

the  audience  his  willingness  and  the     be  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
excellent  spirit  that  he  manifested.         cil  of  the  Twelve.   He  will  be  followed 
Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will    by  Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 

ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Humbly  and  imploringly,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters  and  friends,  I 
approach  this  very  difficult,  but 
challenging  task.  I  trust  that  I  may 
have  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers  and  be  favored  with  the  sweet 
influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

I  rejoice  in  what  we  have  just  wit- 
nessed, in  the  call  of  these  three  noble 
men  to  fill  vacancies  in  the  councils  of 
the  Church.  This  is  but  typical,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  of  what  is  going 
on  throughout  the  Church  in  the 
wards,  stakes,  and  missions,  weekly — 
the  calling  of  men  and  women  to  posi- 
tions of  responsibility.  Always  the  re- 
sponse is  the  same.  To  me  it  is  a 
modern  miracle  not  duplicated  any- 
where upon  the  earth.  I  am  happy  to 
welcome  these  brethren.  I  know  them 
all.   I  love  them. 

I  have  loved  Brother  Richard  L. 
Evans  since  I  first  became  acquainted 
with  him  years  ago.  He  is  loved  by  the 
entire  Church.  He  is  loved  by  this  na- 
tion, because  for  years  he  has  had  a 
national  audience.  His  influence  has 
reached  beyond  the  borders  of  America. 
And  I  would  like  to  say  this  to  him: 
Brother  Evans,  you  now  enter  upon  the 
sweetest  association  known  to  men  in 
this  world,  the  association  which  you 
will  have  with  your  brethren  of  the 
First  Presidency  and  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  There  is  nothing  in  this 
world  in  the  associations  of  men  so 
sweet  and  so  satisfying.  I  know  that 
more  deeply  today  than  ever  before, 
particularly  since  I  have  been  away 
since  last  December,  and  yet  at  times, 
though  I  have  been  miles  away,  I  have 
felt  even  nearer  through  their  faith  and 
prayers — the  faith  and  prayers  of  my 
brethren. 

I  love  Brother  Brown.  I  have  known 
him  for  many  years.   I  was  closely  as- 


sociated with  him  in  Europe  right  after 
the  war,  and  he  is  loved  by  the  people 
of  the  British  Isles,  the  Saints  of  Europe, 
and  the  servicemen  all  over  the  Church, 
to  whom  he  rendered  such  great  serv- 
ice during  the  last  war.  I  had  the 
privilege  of  serving  as  a  counselor  to 
his  older  brother,  Scott  B.  Brown,  in 
the  Boise  Stake,  who  now  serves  as  a 
patriarch  there.  Hugh  B.  Brown  comes 
from  one  of  the  great  families  of  the 
Church. 

I  have  not  known  Brother  Marion 
Hanks  intimately,  but  I  have  watched 
him  with  great  interest  and  considered 
him  one  of  the  most  promising  young 
men  in  the  Church. 

With  all  my  heart  I  extend  the  hand 
of  fellowship  to  these,  my  brethren, 
and  I  am  sure,  as  I  do  so,  I  am  but 
echoing  the  feeling  of  all  the  other 
brethren  in  the  councils  of  the  Church, 
as  well  as  the  entire  Church  member- 
ship. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  this  has  been  a 
glorious  conference.  I  have  received  a 
great  spiritual  uplift.  No,  we  have  not 
heard  anything  particularly  new.  I 
recall  some  years  ago  a  young  fellow, 
a  Mormon  boy,  returned  from  sacrament 
meeting,  and  as  he  met  his  father,  who 
had  been  out  on  a  high  council  assign- 
ment, his  dad  said  to  him,  "Well,  son, 
how  did  you  enjoy  the  sacrament  meet- 
ing?" He  replied,  "Well,  Dad,  it  was 
a  good  meeting.  However,  it  was  pretty 
much  the  echoing  of  re-echoing  echoes, 
but  still  it  was  a  grand  meeting." 

We  have  heard  discussed  some  of  the 
old  virtues.  We  have  heard  admoni- 
tions pertaining  to  eternal  principles. 
They  have  been  presented  in  a  little 
different  setting,  with  different  empha- 
sis, but  in  the  main  there  has  been  very 
little  new,  but,  oh,  how  we  need  the 
admonitions  which  have  been  presented. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


121 


I  would  to  God  that  every  man,  woman, 
and  child  in  this  nation  and  throughout 
the  world  might  have  been  listening  to 
the  counsel  that  has  been  given. 

Now,  as  we  leave  the  conference  and 
go  our  various  ways,  how  are  we  going 
to  implement  the  instructions  that  have 
been  given,  what  are  we  going  to  do 
to  see  to  it  that  this  counsel  does  not 
fall  unheeded?  As  I  think  of  the  most 
effective  way  of  implementing  this  coun- 
sel, I  turn,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
naturally,  to  our  most  basic  institution, 
the  American  home,  because,  after  all,  it 
is  still  our  greatest  and  most  primary 
educational  institution.  It  is,  in  very 
deed,  the  center  of  our  economic,  social, 
and  cultural  interest.  The  home  is  the 
bulwark  of  the  nation  and  our  most 
fundamental  and  basic  institution. 

Unless  as  parents,  we  can  go  back 
into  the  homes  of  the  Church  and 
carry  these  instructions  with  a  deter- 
mination to  put  them  into  effect  at  our 
.own  firesides  with  our  own  children, 
this  conference  will  not  have  been  fully 
effective. 

Marriage,  the  home,  and  family  are 
sacred  institutions.  They  are  not  man- 
made.  Thank  God  for  that.  They  are 
divine.  The  first  marriage  performed 
was  the  marriage  of  two  immortal 
beings.  Following  the  consummation 
of  that  marriage,  the  Lord  gave  im- 
portant scriptures  and  instruction  to  us 
regarding  the  home  and  the  family. 

The  Lord  made  it  clear  it  is  not  good 
for  man  to  be  alone.  Woman  was 
created  as  a  helpmeet  for  man,  and  the 
two  united  in  the  sacred  bonds  of  eternal 
marriage  become  one  flesh. 

"What  therefore  God  hath  joined  to- 
gether," said  he,  "let  not  man  put 
asunder."  (Mark  10:9.)  Then  later, 
"Thou  shalt  love  thy  wife  with  all  thy 
heart,  and  shalt  cleave  unto  her  and 
none  else."  (D.  &  C.  42:22.)  How  we 
need  that  counsel  today  in  America! 
What  heartaches  could  be  avoided  if 
men  would  only  heed  that  counsel 
wholeheartedly.  How  much  less  un- 
faithfulness and  infidelity  there  would 
be  if  we  could  live  by  that  admonition. 

Then  as  though  to  strengthen  further 


the  marriage  bond  in  the  home,  the 
Lord  gave  instructions  to  children 
through  his  prophets.  The  Apostle 
Paul,  echoing  the  admonition  of  Moses 
on  Sinai,  said, 

Children,  obey  your  parents  in  the  Lord: 
for  this  is  right. 

Honour  thy  father  and  mother;  which 
is  the  first  commandment  with  promise; 

That  it  may  be  well  with  thee,  and  thou 
mayest  live  long  on  the  earth.  (Eph.  6:1-3.) 

And  then  in  modern  revelation,  the 
Lord  has  made  it  very  clear  that  parents 
have  great  and  serious  responsibilities. 
Listen  to  these  words  as  the  Lord  speaks 
to  the  parents  of  the  Church: 

And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children 
to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly  before  the 
Lord.  (D.  &  C.  68:28.) 

And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  .  .  .  teach 
them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of 
repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the 
living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the 
hands,  when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be 
upon  the  heads  of  the  parents.  (Ibid., 
68:25.) 

That  is  a  serious  responsibility,  and  I 
believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
early  history  of  this  Church  clearly 
indicates  that  our  grandparents,  the  pio- 
neers of  these  valleys,  in  fact,  the 
Pilgrims,  who  came  and  settled  this 
great  American  continent,  honored  these 
obligations  and  were  blessed  in  their 
homes  for  so  doing. 

I  realize  that  many  changes  have 
come  about  in  the  last  fifty  to  seventy- 
five  years.  Our  industrialization,  spe- 
cialization, concentration  of  populations 
in  great  cities,  the  great  reduction  in 
the  number  of  people  living  on  farms, 
the  change  in  our  agriculture — all  these 
have  had  their  effects.  Greater  empha- 
sis upon  material  things  and  the  seeking 
after  money,  after  pleasure,  personal 
gratification,  and  the  insidious  inroads 
of  liquor,  tobacco,  and  gambling — all 
these  have  had  a  pulling-away  influ- 
ence on  this  most  sacred  institution,  the 
American  home. 

It  is  difficult  to  realize  that  fifty  years 
ago  there  was  only  one  divorce  in  six- 


122 

Sunday,  October  4 

teen  marriages  here  in  America.  By 
1946  the  ratio  had  increased  to  one  in 
three,  and  it  is  reported  in  some  cities 
in  America,  there  are  actually  more 
divorces  each  year  than  marriages.  Our 
best  authorities  indicate  that  most  of 
the  delinquency  in  America  is  the  result 
of  broken,  bad,  and  neglected  homes. 
As  J.  Edgar  Hoover,  one  of  the  best 
authorities  has  indicated,  referring  to 
delinquents,  "The  actions  of  the  major- 
ity of  them  were,  and  are,  directly  re- 
lated to  the  conduct  of  their  parents." 
Yes,  crime  begins  at  home. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  what  should  be  done? 
What  can  be  done?  I  am  sure  we  all 
agree  that  no  nation  ever  rises  above 
its  homes.  This  Church  will  never  rise 
above  its  homes.  We  are  no  better  as 
a  people  than  are  our  firesides,  our 
homes.  The  school,  the  church,  and 
even  the  nation,  I  feel  confident,  stand 
helpless  before  weakened  and  degraded 
homes.  The  good  home  is  the  rock 
foundation,  the  cornerstone  of  civiliza- 
tion. It  must  be  preserved.  It  must 
be  strengthened. 

There  has  never  been  and  there  never 
will  be  a  satisfactory  substitute  for  the 
home  established  by  the  God  of  heaven. 
If  this  nation  is  to  endure,  then  the  home 
must  be  safeguarded,  strengthened,  and 
restored  to  its  rightful  importance. 

May  I  suggest,  in  the  few  moments  re- 
maining, five  simple  things  that,  I  be- 
lieve, we  might  well  give  attention  to, 
as  some  of  the  needs  of  our  homes  to- 
day: 

First  of  all,  I  am  convinced,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters — and  this  is  no  reflection 
on  our  devoted  mothers,  who  spend 
day  after  day,  week  after  week,  obe- 
diently serving  their  families — but  I 
feel  sure  that  one  of  our  greatest  needs 
is  more  time  of  parents  in  the  home. 
Youth  of  the  Church  and  of  the  nation 
need  more  than  physical  comforts.  We 
will  need  to  leave  them  more  than 
lands  and  stocks.  They  need  more  than 
a  modern  automobile  and  a  lovely 
modern  building  to  live  in.  There  is 
no  satisfactory  substitute  for  mother, 
and  no  one  can  take  care  of  her  chil- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

dren  as  she  can.  No  so-called  social 
obligations,  social  enticements,  or  out- 
side interests  should  impel  any  mother 
to  neglect  the  sacred  charge  which  is 
hers  of  caring  for  her  own  flesh  and 
blood.  Her  first  loyalty  in  the  eyes 
of  God  is  to  her  Church  and  her  family. 
I  feel  confident  that  while  civic  and 
social  activities  may  return  much  good, 
she  will  serve  her  community  and  her 
nation  best,  if  she  first  devotes  herself 
to  the  needs  of  her  own  children. 

Second,  and  this  was  emphasized  this 
morning  by  Brother  Cowley,  we  need 
daily  devotion  in  the  home.  We  need 
to  return  to  the  practice  of  family 
prayer,  secret  prayer,  the  old-fashioned 
practice  of  devotion  in  the  home  daily, 
night  and  morning,  the  singing  of 
hymns,  the  reading  of  the  scriptures. 
How  much  more  happiness  there  would 
be,  how  many  fewer  divorces  there 
would  be,  if  these  simple  practices  were 
followed  as  was  the  custom  in  the  pio- 
neer home,  as  well  as  in  the  early  days 
of  this  country,  according  to  the  diaries 
of  our  early  founders. 

Third,  I  think  one  of  the  great  needs 
is  more  parental  instruction  in  life's 
problems.  I  know  there  is  a  tendency 
for  parents  to  shrink  from  this  responsi- 
bility, the  instructing  of  their  own  chil- 
dren in  the  problems  of  sex,  the 
relationship  with  other  young  people, 
the  problem  of  dating,  and  all  of  the 
many  .temptations  that  confront  a  grow- 
ing boy  and  girl.  These  instructions 
should  not  be  left  to  the  school  or  to 
a  class  in  sociology.  The  safest  place, 
the  best  place,  to  give  this  vital  counsel, 
these  sacred  instructions,  in  matters  of 
moral  purity  should  be  in  the  home  on 
a  basis  of  confidence  between  parent 
and  child.  As  parents,  we  should  in- 
struct our  children.  The  sacred  books 
of  the  ancient  Persians  say:  "If  you 
would  be  holy,  instruct  your  children, 
because  all  the  good  acts  they  perform 
will  be  imputed  unto  you." 

Fourth,  I  believe  there  is  a  great  need, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  family 
recreation  and  cultural  activities  to- 
gether. We  should  do  things  together 
as  a  family.    It  may  mean  a  reduction 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKlE 


123 


in  participation  in  women's  clubs,  in 
men's  clubs,  but  if  families  could  only 
seek  their  recreation  and  cultural  activi- 
ties more  as  a  family  unit,  I  am  sure 
that  untold  benefits  and  blessings  would 
accrue.  A  little  boy  was  asked  only 
this  last  summer,  after  he  said  he  was 
going  to  a  summer  camp,  "What  is  a 
summer  camp?"  And  he  answered, 
"Those  places  where  little  boys  go  for 
mother's  vacation."  Let  us  take  more 
of  our  vacations  together  as  families. 
Can  we  have  a  weekly  evening  at  home, 
as  has  been  admonished  and  counseled 
for  years  by  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church?  More  wholesome  activities  to- 
gether is  a  great  need  of  the  families  of 
America.  » 

And  fifth,  we  need  a  closer  parent- 
child  relationship.  This  is  closely  re- 
lated to  the  other  four  matters.  One  of 
the  greatest  needs  of  our  young  people 
is  a  closer,  more  frequent  companion- 
ship with  father  and  mother.  There  is 
no  satisfactory  substitute.  I  was  thrilled 
some  time  ago,  as  I  picked  up  a  paper 
in  the  East  and  read  an  account  of  a 
letter  which  a  rich  industrialist  had  sent 
to  his  son,  his  sixteen-year-old  boy,  as 
a  Christmas  present.  This  man  could 
have  given  his  son  anything  that  money 
could  buy — an  automobile,  a  yacht,  I 
guess,  if  he  wished.  But  when  the  boy 
came  down  from  his  room  Christmas 
morning  and  went  over  to  the  mantel 
where  he  usually  found  his  present, 
there  was  an  envelope,  a  plain  envelope 
with  his  name  on  it,  and  he  opened  it 
and  read: 

"To  my  dear  son: 

"I  give  to  you  one  hour  each  weekday 


and  two  hours  of  my  Sundays  to  be  yours 
to  be  used  as  you  want  it  without  inter- 
ference of  any  kind  whatsoever. 

"Lovingly, 

"Dad." 

As  I  read  that,  I  thought,  what  a  wise 
father,  and  what  a  fortunate  son!  Yes, 
that  is  what  they  need. 

God  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  we  may  give  personal  attention 
now  to  these  vital  matters: 
More  time  of  parents  in  the  home 
Daily  family  devotion  in  the  home 
Parental  instruction  in  life's  problems 
Family  recreation  and  cultural  activi- 
ties together 
A  closer  parent-child  relationship 

May  we  be  faithful  to  this  great  obli- 
gation of  parenthood,  this  sacred  obliga- 
tion, that  we  may  build  our  homes 
solidly  upon  eternal  principles,  that 
we  may  have  no  regrets.  May  we  never 
be  recreant  to  the  great  trust  which 
has  been  imposed  in  us.  May  we  al- 
ways keep  in  mind  that  these  spirits 
that  have  entered  our  homes  are  choice 
spirits.  Many  of  them  have  been  born 
under  the  covenant.  As  we  look  into 
their  faces  and  contemplate  their  needs, 
we  might  well  consider  that  some  of 
them  were  probably  choicer  spirits  up 
there  than  we  were.  It  is  a  grave  re- 
sponsibility.   May  we  not  shirk  it. 

God  bless  us  in  our  homes  and  in  all 
our  worthy  endeavors.  May  we  carry 
with  us  from  this  conference  the  in- 
structions given  and  put  them  into  prac- 
tice in  our  homes  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKlE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


It  has  been  my  privilege,  for  seven 
years  now,  to  serve  on  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy  with  Elder 
Richard  L.  Evans,  and  I  think  I  can 
certify  to  you  from  personal  knowledge, 
born  of  that  association,  that  Brother 
Richard  is  a  man  of  great  ability  and 


devotion  to  the  cause  of  Christ.  He 
supports  and  sustains  the  brethren  and 
the  programs  of  the  Church,  and,  I  am 
persuaded,  has  a  great  mission  to  per- 
form in  his  new  and  high  calling. 

I  think,  perhaps,  there  is  scarcely  a 
name  in  the  Church  more  widely  known 


124 

Sunday,  October  4 

and  heralded  than  his;  and  in  the  field 
of  his  especial  talent  and  assignment, 
that  of  radio,  he  approaches  as  near  the 
indispensable  man  as  any  man  could. 
For  myself,  and  I  am  sure,  speaking 
also  for  the  other  members  of  the  Coun- 
cil, we  are  pleased  with  the  selection 
that  has  been  made  and  give  him,  as 
we  do  all  the  brethren  who  sit  on  this 
stand,  our  united  support  and  love  and 
aEection. 

Brother  Hugh  B.  Brown  and  Brother 
Marion  D.  Hanks,  as  yet,  I  do  not  know 
well,  but  with  the  rest  of  these  brethren, 
and  with  all  of  you,  I  extend  a  welcome 
hand  of  fellowship. 

I  have  had  it  in  my  heart  for  some- 
time, if  the  Spirit  would  give  me  ut- 
terance and  direction,  to  say  a  few  words 
in  this  great  conference  about  that  faith 
which  leads  to  life  and  salvation  and 
without  which  no  man  can  be  saved 
in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Briefly,  speaking  in  outline  form  only, 
I  would  like  to  suggest: 

First,  what  faith  is. 

Second,  how  faith  may  be  gained. 

And  third,  the  test  whereby  it  may  be 
known  whether  we  have  gained  faith 
in  sufficient  measure  to  justify  a  hope 
of  life  and  salvation. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  taught,  as 
may  be  found  recorded  in  the  Lectures 
on  Faith — which  lectures  I  commend  to 
all  men — that  faith  is  the  first  princi- 
ple in  revealed  religion,  that  it  is  the 
foundation  of  all  righteousness,  that  it 
is  a  principle  of  power.  He  taught 
that  faith  is  the  assurance  which  men 
have  of  the  existence  of  things  which 
they  have  not  seen,  that  it  is  the  moving 
cause  of  all  action  in  intelligent  beings, 
and  that  it  is  the  first  great  governing 
principle  which  has  power,  dominion, 
and  authority  over  all  things. 

He  gave  this  formula  whereby  men 
may  exercise  faith  in  God  unto  life  and 
salvation: 

First,  we  must  believe  in  God,  and 
that  means  in  the  true  and  living  God, 
the  Being  who  actually  exists  and  is 
our  Father  in  heaven,  in  whose  image 
we  are  created,  and  who  by  his  grace 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

and  because  of  his  desire  to  see  his 
children  gain  salvation,  appeared  in  our 
day,  with  his  beloved  Son,  to  usher  in 
this  great  work. 

It  is  not  sufficient  to  believe  in  a 
god  of  wood  or  stone,  one  that  has 
been  created  by  men,  or  to  believe  in 
the  god  described  in  the  creeds  that 
have  been  created  by  men.  We  have 
to  get  to  the  truth  if  we  are  to  have 
faith. 

Faith  is  founded  on  truth.  It  was 
Alma  who  said  that,  "...  if  ye  have 
faith  ye  hope  for  things  which  are  not 
seen,  which  are  true,"  (Alma  32:21) 
and  so,  without  truth,  there  can  be  no 
faith. 

The  second  requisite  in  gaining  faith 
is  to  have  a  correct  idea  of  the  character, 
perfections,  and  attributes  of  God.  The 
Prophet  summarizes  the  character  of 
God  in  these  words,  and  I  think  every 
member  of  the  Church  ought  to  mem- 
orize them: 

First,  that  he  was  God  before  the 
world  was  created  and  the  same  God 
that  he  was  after  it  was  created. 

Second,  that  he  is  merciful  and  gra- 
cious, slow  to  anger,  abundant  in  good- 
ness, and  that  he  was  so  from  everlasting 
and  will  be  so  to  everlasting. 

Third,  that  he  changes  not,  neither 
is  there  variableness  with  him,  and 
that  his  course  is  one  eternal  round. 

Fourth,  that  he  is  a  God  of  truth  and 
cannot  lie. 

Fifth,  that  he  is  no  respecter  of  per- 
sons; 

And  sixth,  that  he  is  love. 

Then  the  Prophet  gives  the  attributes 
of  God,  also  six  in  number,  as  follows: 
knowledge,  faith  or  power,  justice,  judg- 
ment, mercy,  and  truth.  The  perfec- 
tions of  God  are  given  as  the  perfections 
which  attach  to  the  attributes  of  his 
nature. 

Then  the  third  requisite  for  gaining 
faith  unto  life  and  salvation  is  so  to 
live  that  we  have  the  actual  knowledge 
that  the  course  of  life  we  are  pursuing 
is  in  harmony  with  the  divine  will. 

I  suppose  there  are  many  people  in 
the  Church  who  have  a  measurable 


ELDER  ELRAY  L. 

knowledge  of  the  attributes  of  God.  I 
think  there  are  even  more  who  have  a 
correct  idea  of  his  character  and  of  his 
perfections.  And  I  am  sure  that  nearly 
all,  perhaps  all  in  the  Church,  believe 
in  him  as  the  personal  Being  who 
actually  lives.  But  the  place  where  we 
fall  down  in  acquiring  faith,  faith  unto 
life  and  salvation,  is  in  that  we  do  not 
order  our  lives  in  such  a  way  that  we 
have  the  assurance  that  our  conduct 
is  in  harmony  with  the  divine  will. 

Faith  comes  by  righteousness,  and 
without  righteousness  and  obedience  we 
cannot  have  the  measure  of  faith  that 
will  save  us. 

Now  the  test  whereby  it  may  be 
known  whether  we  do  have  faith  is 
very  simple.  It  is  the  eternal  truth 
proclaimed  by  the  Lord  when  he  said: 
"And  these  signs  shall  follow  them  that 
believe."  (Mark  16:17.)  If  we  have 
faith,  there  will  be  signs.  If  there  are 
no  signs,  there  is  no  faith.  Where 
there  is  faith,  there  will  be  the  gifts 
of  the  Spirit;  there  will  be  the  minister- 
ing of  angels  and  the  working  of  mir- 
acles. Where  there  is  faith,  there  will 
be  apostles  and  prophets;  there  will  be 
the  authority  of  the  priesthood;  there 
will  be  the  knowledge  of  God  and  the 
organization  of  the  kingdom  of  God  on 
earth. 

Now,  I  suggest  to  you  that  faith  is 
the  great  foundation  upon  which  we 
must  build:  faith  in  God,  faith  in 


CHRISTIANSEN  125 

Christ,  faith  in  the  restored  truth  and 
in  the  living  oracles  who  direct  the 
kingdom  under  the  Lord  in  our  day. 

By  faith  all  things  can  be  done. 
There  is  nothing  too  hard  for  the  Lord, 
and  if  we  have  faith,  we  can  do  what- 
ever is  requisite,  according  to  his  mind 
and  will.  By  faith  the  worlds  were 
made;  by  faith  the  elements  can  be  con- 
trolled, rivers  turned  out  of  their  courses, 
mountains  removed.  By  faith  we  can 
have  angels  minister  to  us,  see  our 
sick  healed,  and  the  dead  raised;  and 
what  is  more  important  than  all  this, 
by  faith  we  can  live  so  as  to  become  the 
sons  of  God  and  be  joint  heirs  with 
Jesus  Christ,  entitled  to  receive  and 
inherit  and  possess,  as  he  has  done  be- 
fore, the  fulness  of  the  kingdom  of  the 
Father. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  The  Choir  and  Congregation 
will  now  sing,  "Redeemer  of  Israel," 
conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  fol- 
lowing which  we  will  hear  Elder  EIRay 
L.  Christiansen,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of 
Israel." 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I remember  that  we  used  to  come  in 
from  the  mission  field,  and  somehow 
we  gave  a  ten  minute  talk  each  time 
the  conference  convened,  and  for  three 
times  in  succession,  somehow,  I  was  in 
this  position — the  very  last  speaker  be- 
fore the  summary  remarks  of  President 
Grant.  On  one  occasion  I  felt  to  say 
this:  that  I  had  never  had  a  headache 
to  speak  of,  I  had  never  had  a  pain,  I 
had  never  been  to  the  hospital,  but  I 
knew  what  it  meant  to  suffer.    I  have 


experienced  that,  to  a  degree,  during 
the  past  three  days. 

I  think  in  all  my  experience  in  temple 
work,  where  four  thousand  couples  knelt 
before  the  altar  at  which  I  officiated, 
the  most  thrilling  thing  was  to  have  the 
parents,  the  brothers  and  sisters,  and 
the  in-laws,  in  addition  to  the  friends 
assembled  in  the  temple  on  the  day  of 
the  marriage  of  their  loved  ones  who  had 
achieved  so  much  in  the  early  years 
of  their  lives  and  had  prepared  and 


126  GENERAL  ( 

Sunday,  October  4 

qualified  themselves  to  come  into  the 
house  of  the  Lord,  and  there  receive 
their  great  and  eternal  blessings.  It 
seems  to  me  that  if  we  intend  to  be 
together  as  families  and  associate  as 
such  in  the  life  to  come,  that  it  is  neces- 
sary for  us  to  get  a  little  experience  in 
being  together  while  here  on  earth.  I 
was  glad  to  hear  Brother  Benson  speak 
of  family  recreational  activities,  but  I 
think  that  the  most  fitting  place  for 
families  to  gather  is  in  the  temples  of 
our  Lord.  If  they  will  do  so,  often 
enough,  it  will  help  to  keep  them  in 
line  of  duty  and  in  a  spiritual  frame  of 
mind  and  attitude  which  is  conducive 
to  successful  living. 

It  was  always  pleasing,  I  say,  to  have 
the  parents  come  to  the  temple  with 
their  children.  And  now,  as  I  have 
visited  stakes  and  missions,  I  have  been 
greatly  satisfied  in  my  heart  and  made 
to  rejoice  because  many  of  these  same 
young  couples  have  come  to  me  and 
with  happiness  written  on  their  faces, 
saying:  "Do  you  remember  us?  We  were 
married  in  the  temple.  These  are  our 
children.  Aren't  they  wonderful?" 
Such  an  experience  has  been  mine  in 
every  stake  where  I  have  yet  gone  as 
well  as  in  every  mission  that  I  have 
visited.  To  have  those  young  people, 
after  having  gone  to  the  temple,  living 
now  as  they  should  and  active  in  the 
Church,  even  though  they  may  be  at- 
tending some  university  far  away  from 
home,  come  and  make  a  sort  of  report 
that  they  are  doing  well,  that  they  are 
active  and  that  they  are  living  the 
gospel  and  doing  all  the  things  they 
were  asked  to  do  in  the  temple,  has  been 
satisfying,  indeed,  to  me. 

The  picture  of  these  young  couples 
expressing  their  joy  and  happiness  in 
their  associations  and  in  their  anticipa- 
tion of  eternal  joy  can  be  contrasted 
with  one  case  that  came  to  my  atten- 
tion. A  young  woman  of  our  Church 
wrote  me  a  letter  asking  for  advice.  She 
said,  "I  was  born  in  the  Church,  but  I 
fell  in  love  with  a  fine  young  man  who 
did  not  belong  to  our  Church.  We  de- 
cided finally  that  we  would  marry.  As 


Third  Dan 

we  talked  it  over,  we  decided  that  even 
though  our  religious  beliefs  were  en- 
tirely different,  neither  of  us  would  im- 
pose our  beliefs  or  practices  upon  the 
other,  that  we  would  leave  each  other 
free  to  worship  and  to  believe  as  each 
saw  fit."  She  said,  "This  went  along 
all  right  until  our  baby  came.  When 
I  wanted  to  have  it  blessed  in  our 
Church,  or  branch  (she  was  in  a  far- 
away city  at  the  time),  my  husband 
objected,  and  he  had  the  support  of 
his  mother  and  others  who  insisted  that 
our  child  be  christened  in  their  church. 
My  heart  is  broken."  She  ended  her 
letter  with  this  question,  "What  would 
you  suggest?" 

Well,  I  was  dumbfounded  to  know 
what  to  suggest  at  that  point  in  her 
experience,  my  brothers  and  sisters.  I 
thought,  surely  somewhere  along  the 
line  some  of  us  had  failed  to  suggest 
and  to  advise  and  to  counsel  this  young 
woman  long  before  she  got  into  this 
situation.  She,  like  others  in  like  cir- 
cumstances, had  thought  that  every- 
thing could  be  "worked  out  later." 

What  I  shall  say  today  is  said  with 
a  hope  that  others  may  avoid  getting 
into  such  a  difficult  situation  in  this 
very  important  event  in  their  lives — 
that  of  choosing  a  companion  in  mar- 
riage. How  will  this  young  woman  now 
obtain  the  blessings  that  are  promised 
to  the  faithful  children  of  God?  How 
will  she  obtain  her  eternal  blessings? 
How  will  she  be  assured  the  association 
of  her  husband  and  of  her  children 
and  of  others  that  are  dear  and  close  to 
her? 

Parents,  bishoprics,  and  all  agencies 
in  the  Church,  and  officers  and  teachers 
in  the  various  classrooms  are  responsiblie 
to  see  that  boys  and  girls  do  not  get  so 
far  away  from  us  that  they  marry  out 
of  the  Church.  Even  though  there  are 
fine,  wholesome,  wonderful  people  out- 
side the  Church,  nevertheless,  when  we 
engage  in  marriage  with  them  our  di- 
vine destiny  is  imperiledl 

To  preserve  the  family  relationship 
here  and  hereafter  is  one  of  the  great 
and  important  purposes  of  life  and  of 


ELDER  ELRAY  L. 

the  gospel.  That  such  relationships 
and  associations  hereafter  should  be 
possible,  is  consistent  with  reason.  All 
righteous  parents,  all  righteous  people 
have  a  natural,  inborn  desire  to  asso- 
ciate forever  with  those  whom  they  love, 
but  it  is  consistent  also,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  to  believe  that  we  must 
conform  to  the  laws  of  God  which  make 
such  associations  possible!  This  is 
clearly  stated  in  the  revelations  that 
have  come  to  us  in  this  day.  I  read 
from  the  131st  Section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants: 

In  the  celestial  glory  there  are  three 
heavens  or  degrees; 

And  in  order  to  obtain  the  highest,  a 
man  must  enter  into  this  order  of  the 
priesthood  [meaning  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant  of  marriage]; 

And  that  is  what  we  are  speaking  of: 

And  if  he  does  not,  he  cannot  obtain  it. 

He  may  enter  into  the  other,  but  that 
is  the  end  of  his  kingdom;  he  cannot  have 
an  increase.  (D.  &  C.  131:1-4.) 

Death  does  not  separate  husbands  and 
wives  who  are  united  by  the  power  of 
our  Father  in  heaven  in  his  holy  tem- 
ples. It  does  not  take  the  children  from 
the  parents  because  these  children  are 
born  under  the  covenant  and  the  par- 
ents have  a  right  and  a  claim  on  them 
in  the  life  hereafter. 

President  Brigham  Young  made  this 
very  clear  when  he  said: 

"When  a  man  and  a  woman  have 
received  their  endowments  and  seal- 
ings,  and  then  had  children  born  unto 
them  afterwards,  those  children  are 
legal  heirs  to  the  kingdom,  and  to  all 
its  blessings  and  promises,  and  they  are 
the  only  ones  that  are  on  this  earth." 
(Discourses  of  Brigham  Young,  p.  195.) 
Yet,  I  have  heard  persons  say  to  me, 
surely,  a  just  God  would  not  want  mar- 
riage to  terminate  with  this  life,  and  I 
have  agreed  with  them.  The  Lord  does 
not  want  that  to  be.  That  is  why  he 
has  instituted  this  principle  of  eternal 
marriage  and  has  given  to  man  here 
upon  the  earth  the  power,  the  authority, 
and  the  keys  to  seal  upon  the  earth 


CHRISTIANSEN  127 

and  have  it  sealed  and  ratified  in  the 
heavens.  (See  D.  &  C.  132:3-8.) 

Yes,  he  is  a  God  of  order,  not  of  con- 
fusion. He  has  said  that  all  who  would 
have  a  blessing  at  his  hands  must  obey 
the  law  upon  which  that  blessing  is 
predicated,  and  so  all  of  us  who  would 
have  the  association,  one  with  the  other 
hereafter,  must  receive  it  through  the 
obedience  to  the  law  which  makes  it 
possible. 

My,  what  disappointment,  what  regret, 
what  remorse  will  be  felt  by  those  of 
us  who  should,  because  of  neglect  or 
indifference,  fail  or  refuse  to  enter  into 
the  marriage  covenant  according  to  the 
way  God  has  designed  it!  To  refuse  to 
enter  into  such  a  covenant  would  end 
with  this  life,  the  associations  as  hus- 
band and  wife. 

If,  after  we  have  received  our  en- 
dowments in  the  temple  and  have  en- 
tered into  the  covenant  of  marriage,  we 
refuse  to  do  what  the  Lord  has  pre- 
scribed that  we  do,  live  according  to 
his  laws  and  "abide  in  my  covenant," 
as  he  says,  if  we  fail  to  do  that,  then 
we  are  in  danger  of  losing  the  blessings 
which  are  promised  and  which  can  be 
realized  only  upon  our  faithfulness. 

Now,  in  contrast  to  the  remorse  that 
will  come  to  those  who  see  their  mis- 
takes too  late,  what  joy  and  what  happi- 
ness await  those  who  come  forth  in  the 
"resurrection  of  the  just"  to  find  their 
companions  by  their  side,  their  children, 
and  their  grandchildren  perhaps,  all  of 
them  having  qualified  while  on  earth 
for  the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts  of  God — 
eternal  life  and  exaltation  in  the  king- 
dom of  God. 

When  we  think  that  this  greatest  of 
all  gifts,  this  power  to  have  eternal  hap- 
piness and  joy  and  association  with 
those  we  love  most,  is  possible  for  all 
of  us,  how  foolish,  how  frail,  and  how 
unwise  we  are  if  we  pass  by  the  oppor- 
tunity to  make  these  ties  binding  in  the 
next  life. 

By  example  and  by  precept,  parents 
should  show  the  importance  of  the  tem- 
ple and  of  temple  work.  I  have  always 
felt  that  it  is  well  for  children  to  ob- 


128 

Sunday,  October  4 

serve  their  parents  hustling  about  getting 
ready  to  go  to  the  temple,  to  do  work 
for  the  dead;  to  see  them  preparing 
their  temple  clothing;  to  note  that 
emphasis  is  given  to  genealogical  re- 
search and  temple  work.  I  think  that 
is  all  conducive  to  good.  Children  then 
will  inquire  of  their  parents  why  this 
is  so  important  and  the  parents  then 
have  the  opportunity  to  explain  these 
grand  and  glorious  principles  in  terms 
that  are  understandable  to  their  chil- 
dren. With  such  help  children  will 
have  a  desire  to  go  themselves  to  the 
temple. 

Now,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is 
replete  with  the  word  of  the  Lord, 
saying  that  the  obligations  and  cove- 
nants that  we  enter  into  for  this  life 
that  are  not  sanctioned  and  entered  into 
by  the  laws  of  God,  end  with  this  life. 
But  it  is  equally  plain  when  it  states 
that  those  who  do  enter  into  covenants 
of  marriage  and  sealings  in  the  temples 
of  the  Lord  shall  pass  by  the  angels 
and  the  gods  and  the  sentinels  and  go 
on  to  their  exaltations  and  have  glory 
in  all  things,  as  hath  been  sealed  upon 
their  heads,  which  glory  shall  be  a  ful- 
ness and  a  continuation  of  their  seeds 
forever,  and  that  such  a  marriage  will 
be  in  full  force  when  they  are  out  of 
this  world. 

Oh,  how  I  wish  we  could  teach  that 
to  the  people  of  the  world,  and  espe- 
cially to  our  own  people,  so  they  may 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

not  lose  the  glorious  blessing  and  as- 
sociations promised  to  the  faithful  chil- 
dren of  God. 

God  bless  us,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
that  as  parents  we  may  teach  our 
children  early  in  life  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord  and  help  them  to  under- 
stand these  principles  before  it  is  too 
late. 

I  pray  that  we  may  do  this,  in  wisdom 
and  in  love,  and  in  kindness,  and  pre- 
pare them  and  point  them  toward  the 
temple  and  temple  marriage  as  soon  as 
they  are  able  to  understand  what  we 
say.  I  testify  that  this  work  is  true, 
that  the  power  to  seal  is  upon  the  earth, 
and  that  these  men  who  sit  before  us 
here  have  the  keys  and  the  authority  to 
act  in  the  name  of  God  and  seal  upon 
the  earth  and  have  it  ratified  in  the 
heavens.  Thus  I  testify  because  I  know 
it  is  so.  I  do  it  humbly,  and  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  heard  Elder  EIRay  L. 
Christiansen,  Assistant  to  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Evans,  whom  you 
know  and  have  known  because  of  his 
work  on  the  radio  and  his  service  in 
the  stakes,  and  whom  the  entire  nation 
knows, — Richard  L.  Evans, — will  now 
speak  to  us,  and  he  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Ipray  that  I  may  be  given  utterance  in 
that  which  I  should  briefly  say. 
I  have  frequented  these  beloved 
walls  for  a  period  now  approaching  a 
quarter  century  in  many  situations  and 
assignments.  But  this  is  the  most  diffi- 
cult thing  that  I  have  here  had  to  do. 
It  seems  that  this  chapter  was  not  in 
the  script  which  I  had  written  for 
myself. 

In  the  brief,  but  in  some  respects  too 
long  a  time  since  first  I  became  aware 


of  this  possibility,  I  have  measured  the 
full  measure  of  my  life  many  times 
over.  There  are  those  here  who  know 
much  better  than  I  the  weight  of  this 
work.  There  is  none  here  who  knows 
better  than  I  my  own  limitations,  in- 
adequacies, and  imperfections,  and  the 
feeling  of  smallness  which  I  have.  But 
if  you  and  my  Father  in  heaven  will 
accept  me  as  I  am,  with  your  help  and 
his,  I  shall  earnestly  endeavor  to  be 
better  than  I  am  or  have  ever  been. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


129 


I  should  not  want  to  pass  without 
thanking  God  for  a  noble  father  whom 
I  never  knew;  for  a  blessed  mother  who, 
in  her  widowhood,  reared  nine  of  us, 
and  faced  her  problems  on  her  knees 
in  prayer  and  on  her  feet  gloriously  in 
courageous  action;  for  brothers  and 
sisters,  who  with  their  children,  I  have 
had  no  cause  but  to  be  proud  of  in  their 
faith  and  their  awareness  of  their  re- 
sponsibilities in  life. 

I  thank  him  for  the  choice  and  lovely 
girl  who  has  been  by  my  side  for  twenty 
years  and  for  the  four  sons  that  are 
ours.  I  pray  for  them,  for  their  genera- 
tion, and  for  youth  everywhere,  for  their 
guidance  in  the  ways  of  truth  and 
righteousness.  I  pray  for  their  genera- 
tion, that  they  may  know  of  the  promise 
of  the  future,  that  despite  all  uncertain- 
ties there  are  glorious  certainties  that 
transcend  them  all,  as  President  McKay 
noted  in  his  opening  address. 

I  would  say  to  their  generation:  be 
prayerful,  keep  the  faith,  avoid  cynicism, 
be  not  shaken  by  the  waves  of  contro- 
versy and  confusion  which  sweep  over 
and  are  quickly  spent,  while  the  truth 
remains  forever. 

This  is  a  gospel  not  of  despondency 
and  discouragement,  not  of  ensnaring 
technicalities,  not  of  quick  condemna- 
tion, but  as  President  Clark  suggested  so 
beautifully  in  his  utterance  last  evening, 
it  is  a  gospel  of  hope,  of  happiness  and 
of  helpfulness,  of  peace  and  of  promise. 

There  is  no  act  of  man,  nor  any  com- 
bination of  men,  despite  what  passing 
troubles  they  may  bring  upon  this  earth, 
who  can  thwart  the  purposes  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  nor  stay  him  in  his 
plans  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  his  children,  and  I 
thank  God  for  it. 

As  to  these,  my  brethren,  they  know 
of  my  affection  for  them — President 
McKay,  President  Richards,  President 
Clark,  President  Smith,  President  Young 
of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy, 
Bishop  Wirthlin,  all  others  here,  each 
of  whom  I  could  name  with  some  point 
of  affection  and  distinction.  No  one 
could  be  to  any  man  more  considerate 


or  gracious  or  kindly  than  they  have 
been  to  me. 

I  shall  miss  some  of  the  intimate  as- 
sociations with  my  beloved  brethren 
of  the  First  Council  with  whom  I  have 
sat  for  fifteen  years.    God  bless  them. 

I  wish  I  had  had  some  greater  part, 
or  some  part  at  all,  in  the  making  of 
this  choice  young  man  who  has  been 
sustained  by  you  to  sit  with  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy,  Brother  Marion 
D.  Hanks.  He  is  a  man  of  courage  and 
of  faith,  and  I  love  him;  and  you  who 
do  not  know  him  will  learn  to  love  him. 
Likewise  Brother  Hugh  B.  Brown,  with 
his  great  gifts  of  utterance,  will  give 
sincere  service  to  the  Church. 

May  I  leave  with  you  the  witness  of 
my  very  soul  that  God  lives;  that  Jesus 
the  Christ  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the 
Father  in  the  flesh,  our  Savior  and  Re- 
deemer; that  the  Father  and  the  Son 
did  appear  in  this  dispensation  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  that  he  and 
all  in  line  of  succession,  including  our 
present  President  McKay,  have  held  the 
keys  and  the  powers  of  the  priesthood, 
and  do  unto  this  day. 

President  McKay,  I  pledge  my  love 
and  loyalty,  and  all  that  is  good  or 
useful  in  me,  with  gratitude  to  you  for 
many  kindnesses  and  considerations  and 
for  your  confidence. 

I  beg  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
your  confidence  and  help. 

May  God  bless  each  and  all  of  us  in 
the  things  we  need  most,  in  understand- 
ing and  peace  and  joy  in  living,  and  in 
the  realization  of  our  highest  possibilities 
here  and  hereafter,  in  the  name  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans,  whom  you 
have  this  day  sustained  as  a  member 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  We  shall  now  hear  Elder 
Marion  D.  Hanks,  whom  you  have  sus- 
tained to  fill  the  vacancy  in  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy  made  by  the 
calling  of  Elder  Evans  to  the  Twelve. 


130 

Sunday,  October  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Third  Day 


I am  humbled  and  honored  beyond 
my  capacity  to  express  by  this  calling 
and  assignment.  In  the  past  five 
years,  during  which  I  have  followed 
after  the  footsteps  of  Brother  Evans  on 
Temple  Square,  I  have  had  a  great 
many  occasions,  hundreds  of  them,  to 
stand  behind  this  pulpit  and  to  wel- 
come to  our  city,  into  this  great  build- 
ing, thousands  of  guests  who  have  come 
here  to  learn  of  us  and  to  hear  our 
story.  I  have  always  done  so  humbly, 
but  I  assure  you  that  I  have  never  felt 
in  doing  it  as  humble  as  I  do  today. 

In  the  few  brief  moments  that  I  shall 
stand  here,  I  should  like  to  pay  tribute 
to  a  principle  as  I  pay  my  respects  to 
a  few  people  to  whom  it  is  in  my  heart 
today  to  give  thanks.  The  principle 
I  should  like  to  suggest  is  one  so 
basic  and  so  simple  that  each  of  you 
knows  it,  and  yet  so  important  that 
scarcely  anything  we  might  say  would 
supersede  it,  and  that  is  that  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  personal  thing,  a 
very  personal  thing. 

We  talk  in  multiples,  and  we  think 
in  numbers,  and  we  teach  classes  with 
many  people  in  them.  We  direct  guide 
tours  where  there  are  large  numbers. 
But  always  there  is  the  simple  truth 
which  we  must  understand:  that  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  God's  plan 
to  get  us  home  individually;  and  while 
we  may  teach  classes,  and  while  we 
may  hold  cottage  meetings  for  groups, 
people  come  to  faith  and  convictions 
individually.  They  enter  the  waters 
of  baptism  individually;  individually 
they  receive  the  blessing  of  the  im- 
position of  hands  by  those  who  have 
that  authority;  and  when  they  seek  to 
get  acquainted  with  their  Father  in 
heaven,  and  to  go  to  the  place  he  would 
like  them  to  be,  they  do  it  individually. 

President  McKay  is  honored  by  this 
congregation  and  his  people  beyond  my 
efforts  to  add  or  augment,  but  I  should 
like  to  say  of  him  this  one  thing:  Within 


the  last  two  weeks,  a  call  came  from 
his  office  inviting  us  to  meet  a  Protestant 
clergyman  who  was  visiting  in  our  city. 
As  he  directed,  we  walked  up  the  street 
and  met  President  McKay  about  half- 
way. He  brought  with  him  this  good 
man  of  another  faith  who  had  come 
here  to  visit  us  and  to  learn  a  little 
about  us. 

President  McKay  brought  him  per- 
sonally, having  spent  a  good  deal  of 
time  with  him,  and  turned  him  over 
to  us,  and  we  brought  him  here  to 
this  building  and  spent  some  more  time 
telling  him  our  story,  but  the  thing 
he  wanted  to  talk  about  most  was  how 
a  great  man  so  busy,  so  very  busy,  had 
taken  time  to  give  him  the  personal  at- 
tention he  had  received  from  President 
McKay.  When  I  received  a  note  of 
thanks  from  this  clergyman  last  week, 
saying  about  the  same  thing,  I  said  to 
myself,  "How  unwilling  have  you  been 
to  take  as  much  time  as  you  have  needed, 
or  been  offered  opportunity  to  take,  to 
bless  many,  while  President  McKay, 
with  all  he  has  to  do  would  take  and 
has  taken  the  time." 

I  should  like  to  pay  a  moment  of 
tribute  also  in  reference  to  the  general 
theme  of  these  few  remarks,  to  the 
people  who  serve  on  these  grounds 
and  with  whom  it  has  been  my 
privilege  to  spend  much  of  my  time  for 
five  years,  particularly  to  Brother  Evans 
who  has  no  need  of  my  further  tribute 
in  your  minds,  I  know.  I  should  like 
to  have  it  known  here  that  I  have  as 
much  love  for  him  as  my  heart  has 
capacity  to  offer.  The  greatest  thing 
that  has  come  into  my  life  in  my  mature 
years  has  been  the  privilege  of  enjoying 
his  confidence  and  spending  time  in  his 
company. 

I  should  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
people  who  do  the  work  on  Temple 
Square,  who  greet,  and  in  an  individual 
manner  teach  and  love  and  take  to  their 
homes  many  who  come  here.  I  should 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


131 


like  to  pay  tribute  for  a  moment  also, 
in  the  same  vein,  to  the  youth  of  this 
Church  with  whom  I  have  spent  the 
major  portion  of  my  short  life,  and  I 
should  like  to  say  that  I  have  all  the 
faith  and  confidence  in  them  which  it  is 
in  my  power  to  possess. 

I  have  had  the  privilege  of  teaching 
them  for  a  number  of  years  now  at  high 
school  and  institute  level.  I  wonder  if 
you  know  how  faithful  they  are.  Do 
you  know,  for  instance,  that  in  this  very 
city  for  a  number  of  years  large  groups 
of  these  young  people  have  been  com- 
ing at  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning  to 
learn  the  story  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  to  read  that  great  book  together  in 
seminary  gatherings?  This  activity  has 
spread  to  California  where  thousands 
of  fine  young  people  are  meeting  the 
same  test. 

I  have  spent  some  time  in  the  service. 
I  have  spent  a  good  deal  of  time  in  the 
missionary  field,  and  wherever  I  have 
gone,  I  have  felt  it  in  my  heart — al- 
though there  are  some  who  are  not  what 
they  ought  to  be,  I  know  that — that 
there  never  has  existed  on  the  earth,  a 
more  righteous  and  excellent  and  loyal 
group  of  young  people  than  these  who 
are  ours  to  teach  and  to  take  care  of, 
and  I  honor  them.  When  they  come 
up  to  me  and  tell  me  occasionally,  as 
they  have  done  this  morning  on  these 
grounds,  that  they  appreciate  what  little 
I  have  been  able  to  do  in  their  lives, 
I  rejoice,  and  my  heart  fills. 

I  would  like  to  take  just  a  moment  to 
pay  tribute  to  those  who  teach  the  youth 
of  the  Church  in  their  religious  educa- 
tion classes.  While  they  are  not  always 
understood  and  while  they  are  criticized 


to  some  extent,  their  job  is  difficult, 
and  I  want  to  express  my  own  faith  in 
them,  and  my  conviction  that  there  is 
no  body  of  men  more  faithful,  more 
loyal,  and  more  able  to  support  these 
brethren  whose  job  it  is  to  lead  this 
Church.  I  am  proud  to  have  been 
numbered  among  them.  . 

Finally,  may  I  pay  tribute,  as  I  feel 
I  must  on  this  occasion — and  I  perhaps 
will  not  have  it  or  take  it  here  other- 
wise, to  my  own  family;  to  my  father, 
whom  I  did  not  know — he  passed  away 
when  I  was  a  baby;  to  my  angel  mother 
who  reared  six  of  us  under  conditions 
very  much  like  those  Brother  Evans' 
mother  endured  and  braved;  to  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  each  of  whom  I 
love,  and  who  have  given  service  to 
this  Church;  to  my  beautiful  wife  who 
has  stood  at  my  side  during  many  hours 
of  activity  in  the  Church;  and  to  my 
lovely  children. 

I  should  like,  too,  as  I  leave  this  pul- 
pit, to  say  to  you  that  I  do  not  come 
to  this  position  faultless.  I  have  been 
at  times  a  little  critical  of  some  people 
in  some  instances.  I  do  not  feel  critical 
today.  I  have  been  impatient.  I  do 
not  feel  impatient  today. 

I  do  ask  God  to  bless  me,  that  my 
efforts  might  be  of  some  value  to  him, 
to  these  brethren,  in  forwarding  a  work 
which  I  know  to  be  true,  which  I  have 
spent  my  young  life  trying  to  forward  in 
this  earth  because  I  know  it  to  be  true. 
I  ask  God  to  help  me  as  I  in  humility 
seek  to  do  a  job  which  seems  to  me  at 
this  moment  to  be  beyond  my  poor 
capacity  to  do,  and  I  humbly  pray  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


We  have  just  listened  to  Elder 
Marion  D.  Hanks,  whom,  as  I 
stated  a  few  moments  ago,  you  have 
this  day  sustained  as  a  member  of  the 
First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 

Messages  of  appreciation  of  the  televi- 
sion service  rendered  this  forenoon  to 
the  people  of  the  Northwest  and  on  the 


Pacific  Coast,  still  come  in.  Knowing 
your  interest,  I  will  read  two  more. 

This  is  from  Seattle,  Washington, 
signed  by  Wilford  H.  Payne,  Seattle 
Stake:  "Please  accept  appreciation  of  the 
first  television  broadcast  conference  ses- 
sion to  Saints  and  friends  in  the  North- 
west." 


132 

Sunday,  October  4 

From  Los  Angeles,  signed  by  the 
President  of  the  California  Mission, 
Bryan  L.  Bunker:  "Televised  conference 
messages  received  perfectly.  Marvelous 
missionary  opportunity  in  the  future. 
Gratefully,  President  of  the  California 
Mission." 

And  now  at  the  conclusion  of  this 
great  conference,  may  we  express  again 
the  gratitude  of  our  hearts  to  these  men, 
and  companies,  who  have  so  graciously 
contributed  of  their  means,  with  so  lit- 
tle expense  to  the  Church,  to  broadcast 
by  radio  and  by  television,  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  great  conference.  We 
want  them  to  know  that  you  and  the 
Church  generally  deeply  appreciate 
their  co-operative  efforts. 

Expresses  Appreciation 

We  express  gratitude,  also,  to  the  pub- 
lic press.  I  want  to  name  especially  the 
reporters  on  our  papers,  who  have  given 
such  accurate  and  careful,  complete  ac- 
counts of  the  various  meetings,  speakers 
of  our  conference  since  last  Wednesday, 
including  the  great  Relief  Society  Con- 
ference. 

We  wish  to  express  appreciation  to 
the  audience  here  in  the  Tabernacle, 
your  responsiveness  and  your  reverence, 
may  it  be  an  example  to  the  audiences, 
to  the  congregations  throughout  the 
Church  when  they  enter  our  places  of 
worship:  Very  little  moving  about,  no 
leaving  of  the  services;  I  have  been 
favorably  impressed  and  commend  you. 

We  appreciate  the  co-operation  of 
our  city  officials,  their  ready  and  efficient 
service,  wherever  it  is  needed;  our 
traffic  officers  in  handling  the  crowds. 
I  have  noticed  new  precautionary  meas- 
ures taken  and  the  presence  of  the 
members  of  the  police  force  on  the 
corners,  courteously,  carefully  protect- 
ing the  crowds  surrounding  this  block 
and  throughout  the  city. 

We  wish  to  mention  again  these 
beautiful  flowers  sent  from  Oahu  and 
others  furnished  by  our  local  florists. 
We  appreciate  our  singers,  and  although 
we  have  already  expressed  it  to  each 
choir,  I  repeat  again  your  appreciation 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

of  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers, 
the  members  of  the  Swiss-German 
Choir,  the  Men's  Chorus,  who  rendered 
such  good  service  last  evening  in  the 
Tabernacle,  and  finally,  and  of  course, 
not  least,  the  members  of  our  Taber- 
nacle Choir.  To  all  of  these  and  to  all 
others,  including  our  ushers,  we  extend 
heartfelt  appreciation. 

And  now,  this  great  conference  draws 
to  a  close.  Our  anticipation,  our  hopes, 
our  prayers  that  it  might  prove  to  be 
uplifting  and  inspirational,  have  been 
realized,  and  for  that  we  are  grateful 
to  our  heavenly  Father,  grateful  for 
the  inspiration  he  has  given  to  the 
General  Authorities  who  have  spoken 
to  you.  What  great  messages  they  have 
given  to  us  and  to  the  world!  Truly, 
our  hearts  have  been  filled  with  grati- 
tude that  the  Lord  has  magnified  each 
one,  to  the  end  that  his  word  has  been 
spoken. 

In  conclusion,  may  I  leave  just  one 
closing  thought.  This  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  commonly  known  as  "Mormon- 
ism,"  is  in  the  world  to  make  people 
happy.  Happiness  is  the  end,  really, 
of  our  existence.  That  happiness  comes 
most  effectively  through  service  to  our 
fellow  men,  and  the  Church  is  the 
most  effective  means  in  the  world 
through  which  that  service  may  be  ren- 
dered. 

There  is  no  happiness  without  peace. 
Today,  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  his  Cabinet,  Congress,  the  Senate, 
the  House  of  Representatives,  the 
Judiciary,  are  all  seeking  peace  in  the 
world.  Nations  are  longing  for  it. 
Mothers  and  fathers,  grandmothers  and 
grandfathers  who  have  children  and 
grandchildren  in  the  armed  forces  are 
praying  daily  that  we  might  have  peace. 

Peace  is  the  message  that  came  when 
the  Savior  was  born  a  Babe  in  Bethle- 
hem. It  was  heralded  by  the  angel 
choir,  singing,  "Glory  to  God  in  the 
highest,  and  on  earth  peace,  good  will 
toward  men."  (Luke  2:14.) 

"Peace,"  he  said  to  his  disciples  to- 
ward the  close  of  his  ministry,  "These 
things  I  have  spoken  unto  you,  that  in 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


133 


me  ye.  might  have  peace.  In  the  world 
ye  shall  have  tribulation:  but  be  of 
good  cheer;  I  have  overcome  the  world." 
(John  16:33.) 

After  his  resurrection,  when  the  doors 
were  closed  and  the  ten  disciples  were 
in  session,  as  he  greeted  them,  his  first 
salutation  was,  "Peace  be  unto  you." 
(Ibid.,  20:21.)  And  eight  days  later, 
when  the  eleven  were  there,  the  same 
salutation,  "Peace."  (See  Ibid.,  20:26.) 

What  a  glorious  thing  it  is,  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  this  is  my  message: 
Peace  cannot  be  found  in  external 
things.  Peace  comes  from  within. 
"There  is  no  peace  except  by  the  tri- 
umph of  principles,"  said  the  wise 
Emerson.  Peace  is  within  the  indi- 
vidual soul.  There  is  no  peace  when 
one's  conscience  is  seared  or  when  one 
is  conscious  of  having  committed  some 
untoward  act. 

There  was  certainly  no  peace  in  that 
young  girl's  soul  who  came  and  con- 
fessed the  other  night,  fearful  of  the 
disgrace  she  had  brought  upon  her 
loving  parents,  fearful  of  how  she  could 
again  meet  the  world.  She  was  expe- 
riencing the  pangs  of  retribution — the 
antithesis  of  peace. 

Peace  springs  from  righteousness  in 
the  soul,  from  upright  living.  If  we  are 
going  about  in  the  world  to  establish 
peace,  let  us  begin  at  home,  first  with 
each  individual.  If  you  want  peace 
tonight,  remember  yours  is  the  re- 
sponsibility to  obtain  it,  and  it  is  my 
responsibility,  and  it  is  your  privilege 
and  mine  to  attain  it. 

Certainly,  let  us  establish  peace  in 
our  household.  We  are  sending  out 
missionaries,  it  is  true,  to  proclaim  peace 
and  universal  brotherhood.  That  is  one 
great  mission  of  our  Church.  May  all 
the  world  recognize  it  and  co-operate 
with  us  in  spreading  the  glad  news,  the 
glad  tidings  of  great  joy.  That  is  the 
paramount  purpose  of  our  missionary 
work.  May  God  guide  the  boys  and  the 
girls,  the  young  men  and  women  who  go 
out,  paying  their  own  expenses  or  re- 
ceiving support  from  their  parents,  in 
thus  proclaiming  peace  to  a  disturbed 


and  unsettled  world.  What  a  glorious 
concept,  but  let  us  set  the  example  by 
having  peace  in  our  homes. 

Paraphrasing  the  author  of  The  Sim- 
ple Life:  "Let  our  homes  become  sanctu- 
aries for  ourselves."  (I  commend  the  ap- 
peal made  by  Elder  Benson.)  Sanctu- 
aries! A  sanctuary  is  where  we  have 
peace.  May  our  homes  become  warm 
nests  where  children  may  be  protected 
and  grow  into  noble  men  and  women; 
where  love  may  find  privacy,  old  age 
repose,  prayer  an  altar,  and  the  nation 
a  sure  source  of  strength  and  perpetuity. 

With  all  my  soul  at  the  close  of  this 
great,  inspirational  conference,  my  dear 
fellow  workers,  I  say  God  bless  you, 
that  in  your  hearts  and  in  your  homes 
you  may  have  peace.  I  say  to  all  our 
friends  who  have  been  listening  in, 
may  the  peace  that  comes  from  obedi- 
ence to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  find 
lodgment  in  your  hearts,  through  your 
acceptance  of  the  truth. 

May  the  spirit  of  peace  be  poured 
out  upon  all  nations,  that  the  threaten- 
ing clouds  of  destruction  may  be  dissi- 
pated, and  the  sunshine  of  peace  shine 
once  more  all  over  the  world,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Hallelujah 
Chorus,"  (Messiah). 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Conference  of  the  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Union  will  convene  in  the 
Tabernacle  tonight  at  7:00  o'clock.  Of- 
ficers and  teachers  are  requested  to  be 
present,  and  the  public  cordially  in- 
vited. 

President  Elwood  J.  Corry  of  Cedar 
Stake,  will  now  pronounce  the  bene- 
diction. 


Elder  Elwood  J.  Corey,  President  of 
the  Cedar  Stake,  pronounced  the  bene- 
diction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


134 

Sunday,  October  4 

The  congregational  singing  of  the 
Conference  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P. 
Condie,  Assistant  Conductor,  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
choral  singing  for  the  Sunday  morning 
and  afternoon  sessions,  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall and  Richard  P.  Condie,  conduct- 
ing. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  male  chorus 
provided  the  choral  music  for  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  meeting  Saturday  even- 
ing, J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  Stakes  in  the  Central  Utah  and 
Mount  Timpanogos  regions,  with  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conducting, 
presented  choral  numbers  at  the  Friday 
morning  and  afternoon  sessions. 

A  choir  consisting  of  the  German- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

speaking  members  of  the  Church  in 
Salt  Lake  City  furnished  the  choral 
music  for  the  Saturday  morning  and 
afternoon  sessions,  Elder  Heinz  Rim- 
masch,  Conductor. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  directed  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  and  Frank  W.  Asper  was 
at  the  organ,  on  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  Organ  broadcast,  and  also  on  the 
Church  of  the  Air  program. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  great  organ  were  played  by  Alex- 
ander Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and 
Roy  A.  Darley. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Confer- 
ence were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Otter- 
strom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


Index 

Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph   4 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present   _   1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   117 

Bennion,  Elder  Adam  S  _   109 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   120 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W  _   60 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  and  Stake,  Ward  and  Branch  Organizations    4 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   94 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   125 

Church  of  the  Air    90 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   38 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   83 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   117 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Cowley,  Elder  Matthew    106 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  _   94 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   128 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   _   19 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting    3 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present   _   1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained    117 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    73 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D  _   130 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   46 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B  _   27 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   44 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W  _   51 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A   50 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B  _   23 

Longden,  Elder  John    66 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   123 

McKay,  President  David  O.  (Opening  Address)    5 

Temple  Construction  5,  Stake  Missionary  Work  6,  Youth  Program  6, 
Unification  of  Church  School  System  6,  Passing  of  Two  General  Authori- 
ties 7,  Commendation  of  Teachers  and  Church  Groups  7,  The  Kingdom  of 
God  or  Catastrophe  7,  What  Men  Think  8,  Four  Fundamental  Truths  9, 
Value  of  Noble  Thoughts  10,  Two  Great  Commandments  10,  Change 
Men's  Hearts  1 1,  Lesson  for  Youth  1 1. 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Page 

McKay,  President  David  O.  (General  Priesthood  Meeting)    87 

Excursions  88,  On  Soliciting  Funds  88,  How  to  Obtain  a  Testimony  88. 

McKay,  President  David  O.  (Closing  Address)    131 

McKay,  President  David  0  3,  4,  5,  12,  16,  18,  19,  23,  31,  32,  36,  37, 

38,  40,  44,  46,  49,  51,  56,  57,  60,  63,  66,  69,  72,  73,  83, 

87,  90,  95,  96,  103,  106,  115,  116,  119,  125,  128,  129,  131,  133. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E   40 

Morris,  Elder  George  Q   104 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D.  ....   90 

(Church  of  the  Air) 

Obituaries  .  ,  5 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   74 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    117 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General   73 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   _   78 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L   85 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L  .   97 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   34 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   56 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   37 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   31 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding   ,   57 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   33 

Spoken  Word,  The   _   94 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   69 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    117 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  _   94 

Third  Day    90 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   _   115 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   12 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E  _   20 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   63 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth   17 


Education  Lives  As  Long  As  You  Read 

GOOD  BOOKS 


The  Gospel  and  Man's  Relationship  to  Deity  $1.50 

B.  H.  Roberts 


New  Witness  for  Christ  in  America 
Francis  W.  Klrkham 

Volume  I  $2.75 

Evidence  of  Divine  Power  in  the  "Coming  Forth"  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon 

Volume  II  $2.75 

Attempts  to  prove  the  "Book  of  Mormon"  man-made 

Witnesses  of  the  Book  of  Mormon   $2.75 

Preston  Nibley 

Doctrine  and  Covenants  Commentary  $5.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Autobiography  of  Parley  P.  Pratt  $3.00 

Key  to  Theology   ...$1.50 

Parley  P.  Pratt 

J.  Golden  Kimball   $4.00 

Claude  Richards 

New  Witness  for  God-Vol  l#  ll#  III  $2.50 

B.  H.  Roberts  Each 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


Books  of  lasting  inspiration  by  our  Church  leaders 


On  the  Way  to  Immortality  and  Eternal  Life..$3.50 

J.  Reuben  Clark 


Priesthood  and  Church  Government  $2.50 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  $3.50 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Essentials  in  Church  History  $4.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Gospel  Standards  $2.25 

Heber  J.  Grant 

Sharing  the  Gospel  With  Others  $2.50 

George  Albert  Smith 

Word  of  Wisdom  $2.75 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

Discourses  of  Brigham  Young  $3.00 

Compiled  by  John  A.  Widtsoe 

The  Spoken  Word  $2.00 

Richard  L.  Evans 

Unto  the  Hills   $2.00 

Richard  L  Evans 

This  Day  and  Always  $2.00 

Richard  L  Evans 

At  This  Same  Hour  $2.00 

Richard  L.  Evans 

Tonic  For  Our  Times  $2.50 

Richard  L.  Evans 


ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


