NINETIETH  ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

Of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  April  4,  5,  6,  1920 
With  a  full  report  of  the  Discourses. 


40  Cents 


PUBLISHED  BY  THE  DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 


Read  the  Church  Works 


Every  Latter-day  Saint  family  should  possess  a  com- 
plete set  of  the  Church  Works.  They  are  full  of  inspired 
teachings  and  bring  an  influence  in  the  home  that  is  whole- 
some and  uplifting.  Familiarity  with  these  inspired  books 
means  intelligent  membership  and  a  spiritual  equipment 
for  big,  wholesome  service. 

Let  your  children  make  the  acquaintance  of  these  sa- 
cred volumes  by  frequent  contact  with  them  in  the  home. 
There  is  no  more  impressive  and  effective  way  to  impress 
them  with  the  truths  of  the  gospel. 

THE  DOCTRINE  AND  COVENANTS— A  wonderful 
book  of  modern  revelations.  The  word  of  the  Lord  to  the 
people  of  this  dispensation.  No  home  library  is  complete 
without  it. 

THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON— A  history  unique.  A 
gripping  story  that  has  the  distinction  of  being  true.  A 
compendium  of  divine  truth. 

THE  PEARL  OF  GREAT  PRICE— A  volume  of  pleas- 
ant and  profitable  reading.    It's  all  that  its  title  implies. 

THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH— By  any  one  of 
three  or  four  trenchant  writers.  A  history  full  of  romance, 
heroism  and  achievement. 

You  need  the  Church  Works  in  your  home.  We  can 
supply  you  with  any  or  all  of  them,  in  a  variety  of  bind- 
ings, and  prices  to  meet  your  convenience. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 
6  Main  Street 


Ninetieth  Annual  Conference 


Of  the  Church  Of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-Day  Saints. 


FIRST  DAY 

The  ninetieth  annual  conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake  City  at 
10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Sunday,  April  4,  1920.  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
presided. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT. 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
Charles  W.  Penrose ;  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Rudger 
Clawson,  *  Geo.  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay, 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen 
L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  and  Melvin  J.  Ballard;  presiding 
Patriarch  :  Hyrum  G.  Smith ;  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Sey- 
mour B.  Young,  B.  H.  Roberts,  *  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  and  Levi  Edgar  Young;  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric :  Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith,  and  John  Wells ;  As- 
sistant Historians :  Andrew  Jen-son,  and  A.  William  Lund.  There 
were  a  large  number  of  Presidents  of  stakes  with  their  counselors, 
Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  wards,  and  numerous  other  prominent  officers, 
men  and  women  representing  various  quorums  and  organizations  of 
the  Church. 

The  following  Presidents  of  Missions  were  in  attendance :  Charles 
A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Wins- 
low  Farr  Smith,  Northern  States ;  Heber  C.  Iverson,  Northwestern 
States ;  John  M.  Knight,  Western  States ;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Cali- 
fornia ;  Nephi  Jensen,  Canada ;  Ray  L.  Pratt ;  Mexican ;  Benjamin  God- 
dard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Temple  Block. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  called  the  congregation  to  order. 

The  great  auditorium  and  galleries  and  every  available  standing 
space  was  occupied  by  people. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  say,  what  is  truth?" 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Edward  J.  Wood,  of  the  Alberta  Stake 
of  Zion,  Canada. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang",  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of 
kings." 


*Reed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Washington  and  George  Albert  Smith,  pre- 
siding over  the  British  and  European  Mission;  J.  Golden  Kimball  was  absent 
in  California,  owing  to  ill  health. 


G E N  E RA  L  CON FE RENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  certainly  an  inspiring  sight  to  see  so  many  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  gathered  here  at  the  opening  of  onr  conference.  Consider- 
ing the  weather  I  had  expected  that  there  would  be  no  need  this 
morning  of  having  an  overflow  meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  but 
I  was  mistaken. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  faith  that  is  in  the  hearts  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  rejoice  in  the  loyalty  of  the  people  to  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ,  wherever  they  are  located,  from  Canada  on  the 
north,  to  Mexico  in  the  south,  and  in  all  the  various  missions  through- 
out the  world.  I  am  convinced,  beyond  the  shadow  of  a  doubt,  that 
there  are  no  other  people  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  who  are  as  de- 
voted to  their  religion,  or  who  are  ready  and  willing  to  and  who  do 
in  very  deed  make  as  many  sacrifices  for  their  church,  as  an  absolute 
practical  demonstration  of  their  faith,  as  do  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

THE  SAINTS  ABSOLUTELY  SINCERE. 

When  we  realize  that  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  are 
absolutely  honest  in  the  payment  of  their  tithes,  who  look  upon  the 
obligation  to  pay  one-tenth  of  all  they  make  as  sacredly  as  they  would 
look  upon  the  obligation  to  divide  with  a  partner,  if  that  partner  had 
a  one-tenth  interest  in  their  business ;  when  we  think  of  the  dona- 
tions that  are  made  for  the  support  of  the  poor,  for  the  erection  of 
meetinghouses  in  the  various  wards,  for  the  erection  of  stake  taber- 
nacles, for  the  building  erf  academies,  the  construction  of  temples,  and 
last,  greatest  of  all,  when  we  think  of  the  wonderful  sacrifice  that 
is  made  by  the  men  and  women,  giving  two,  three  and  five  years  of 
their  time  for  missionary  work,  and  some  of  them  ten  and  fifteen 
years,  at  their  own  expense  or  the  expense  of  their  families,  not  only 
giving  their  time  but  paying  their  own  way — I  am  sure  that  any  per- 
son who  stops  to  reflect  upon  these  sacrifices  must  acknowledge  that 
there  can  be  no  greater  evidence  of  absolute  sincerity  and  devotion 
given  by  any  people  to  their  faith  and  to  the  cause  of  God,  as  they 
understand  it,  than  is  given  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

DISPOSITION  OF  TITHING. 

I  will  read  for  your  information  some  of  the  things  that  have 
been  assisted  by  your  tithing  during  the  past  year.  The  Saints  them- 
selves have  contributed  $500,000,  because  it  has  been  the  custom 
for  the  Church  to  pay  one-third  only  in  the  building  of  meeting- 
houses. During  the  latter  part  of  the  year,  however,  the  Church 
has  been  doing  one-half  in  the  constructing  of  meetinghouses, 
and  I  would  like  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  there  are  no  ap- 
plications now  made  for  assistance  from  the  Trustee-in-Trust,  but 
what  the  different  wards  and  stakes  ask  for  one-half  of  the 
money  needed  to  erect  their  meetinghouses  and  their  schoolhouses, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


3 


and  there  are  applications  on  file  now  with  the  Trustee-in- 
Tmst  for  considerably  above  one  million  dollars.  It  is  just  as  well 
for  you  to  know  that  it  is  a  financial  impossibility  for  us  to  comply 
with  all  of  those  applications.  Buildings  cost  today  twice  as  much  as 
they  did  a  few  years  ago,  so  if  a  buiMing  that  would  cost  $30,000 
three  or  four  years  ago  were  erected  now  it  would  cost  $60,000.  In  the 
past  the  Church  has  given  ten  thousand ;  today  it  is  asked  for  thirty 
thousand,  which  is  an  increase  of  two  hundred  per  cent.  We  can  not 
'possibly  comply  with  all  the  requests,  much  as  we  would  like  to. 

There  has  been  appropriated  for  maintenance  of  meetinghouses 
in  the  various  wards  during  last  year  $254,108.59;  for  stake  tabernacles, 
$35,811.82;  appropriations  to  the  various  stakes,  $167,410.96;  for 
wards  throughout  the  Church,  $444,763.60;  for  hospitals,  $70,121.00; 
for  temple  maintenance  and  construction,  $214,476.51 ;  for  the  various 
missions,  $420,359.88 ;  in  addition  to  money  contributed  in  these 
missions.  Expended  for  charity,  $354,283.26.  For  education,  the 
Church  gave  $722,353.83,  and  the  applications  now  for  our  schools 
amount  to  over  one  million  for  the  coming  year.  We/  can  not  reach  all 
that  is  required,  but  we  will  do  as  much  as  we  possibly  can.  The  total 
amount  that  has  been  expended  in  the  various  stakes,  wards  and  mis- 
sions of  the  Church  funds,  for  the  year  1919  is  $2,683,689.45. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  fact  that  in  two  more  days  we  will  be  cele- 
brating the  90th  anniversary  of  the  birth  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
upon  the  earth  in  this  last  dispensation.  Before  the  Church  was 
organized  there  were  a  few  people  who  believed  in  the  vision  that 
the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  had  had  as  a  boy,  fourteen  years  of  age. 
They  also. believed  that  he  had  been  visited  by  heavenly  messengers, 
that  he  had  had  years  of  instruction,  and  they  believed  beyond  the 
shadow  of  a  doubt,  that  he  had  in  his  possession  the  golden  plates 
from  which  he  was  translating  the  Book  of  Mormon.  They  believed 
in  the  many  revelations  that  God  gave  to  him  and  which  he  wrote 
out  and  delivered  to  the  few  with  whom  he  was  associated  prior  to 
the  organization  of  the  Church.  One  of  those  revelations  was  to 
the  prophet's  father — it  is  brief  and  I  will  read  it — given  a  little  more 
than  a  year  before  the  organization  of  the  Church. 

REVELATION  TO  THE  PROPHET'S  FATHER. 

Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men; 

Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve 
him  with  all  your  heart,  miglht,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand 
blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day; 

Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve  God,  ye  are  called  to  the  work, 

For  behold  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest,  and  lo,  he  that  thrust- 
eth  in  his  sickle  with  his  might,  tthe  same  layeth  up  in  store  that  he  perish 
not,  but  bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul; 

And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of 
God,  qualify  him  for  the  work. 

Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly 
kindness,  godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence. 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Ask  and  ye  shall  receive,  knock  and  it  shall  he  opened  unto  you.  (Doc. 
trine  and  Covenants,  Section  4.) 

Truly  a  great  and  marvelous  work  has  come  forth  and  been  pro- 
claimed in  every  land  and  in  every  clime  all  over  the  wide  world.  The 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored — by  a  personal  visitation  of 
the  apostles  Peter,  James  and  John,  laying  their  hands  upon  the  heads 
of  Oliver  Cowdery  and  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  ordaining  them 
to  the  apostleship;  by  a  personal  visitation  of  John  the  Baptist,  who 
baptized  the  Savior,  laying  his  hands  upon  Oliver  Cowdery  and  Joseph 
Smith  and  ordaining  them  to  the  Aaronic,  or  the  lesser  priesthood — 
the  gospel  is  again  restored  to  the  earth,  with  the  power  and  authority 
that  existed  in  the  days  of  the  Savior.  Millions  of  dollars  in  money 
have  been  expended  for  erecting  and  maintaining  temples  wherein  or- 
dinances are  performed  for  the  salvation  of  those  who  have  died 
without  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel.  All  these  things  bear  witness  of 
the  inspiration  of  God  to  that  man  Joseph  Smith,  when  he  delivered 
this  statement  in  a  revelation  to  his  father,  that  a  great  and  a  marvelous 
work  was  about  to  come  forth  among  the  children  of  men. 

TRIBUTE  TO  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 

The  readiness,  the  willingness,  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  an  inspiration  to  those  not  of  our  faith.  I 
had  intended  to  read  here  this  morning  some  of  the  very  splendid 
things  that  were  said  in  the  United  States  Senate  regarding  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  by  the  senators  from  Nevada,  from  Colorado  and  from  Ari- 
zona. I  did  not  intend  to  read  anything  said  by  our  own  senator  from 
Utah,  but  I  rejoice  when  men  not  of  our  faith  can  bear  the  testimony 
that  these  men  did,  respecting  the  loyalty  of  our  people. 

[President  Grant  here  read  selections  from  the  speeches  of  the  sen- 
ators referred  to.  The  tributes,  in  full,  however,  including  the  speech  of 
Senator  Smoot,  are  here  given]: 

BY  SENATOR  SMOOT,  OF  UTAH. 

Mr.  Smoot.  Mr.  President,  I  am  not  going  to  occupy  more  than  about 
15  minutes  of  the  time  of  the  Senate. 

For  over  16  years  I  have  paid  no  attention  whatever  to  any  of  the 
false  and  malicious  newspaper  reports  and  statements,  made  against  the  so- 
called  "Mormon"  Church.  The  only  excuse  that  I  have  to  offer  for  doing 
so  at  this  time  is  that  I  have  received  a  request  from  members  of  a  number 
of  the  principal  clubs  of  the  State  of  Utah  to  call  the  attention  of  the 
Senate  and  of  the  country  to  certain  false  statements  published  in  dif- 
ferent newspapers  throughout  the  United  States. 

First,  I  desire  to  call  attention  to  an  article  that  appeared  in  the 
New  York  World  of  October  22,  under  the  date  line  of  London,  October  21. 
This  same  article,  I  will  state,  was  published  in  many  other  newspapers 
throughout  the  United  States.  It  is  as  follows: 

"Girls,  Mormon  Converts,  Want  to  Leave  England. — Fully  1,200 
of  them,  Says  Authoress,  Have  Asked  Passports  so  They  Can  go  to 
Utah. 

"London,  October  21. 
.  "Winifred  Graham,  the  well-known  English  authoress,  who  has 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


5 


done  much  in  this  country  to  expose  Mormonism,  told  the  World 
correspondent  today  that  fully  1,200  English  girls  hrve  recently 
been  persuaded  by  Mormon  propagandists  here  to  go  to  Utah. 
'During  the  war,'  she  said,  'the  Mormons  made  great  headway  in 
the  United  Kingdom.  I  hope  the  American  authorities  will  pre- 
vent the  departure  of  these  girls  for  America.  From  reliable  sources 
I  learn  that  there  are  1,200  of  them  anxious  to  sail  immediately. 
Only  last  week  one  was  bound  over  in  a  London  police  court  for 
falsification  of  a  passport  in  her  efforts  to  go  to  Utah.' 

"Winifred  Graham  is  the  pen  name  of  Mrs.  Theodore  Cory. 
She  sails  on  the  Baltic    October  29  as  the  Britislh  delegate  to  the 
World  Citizenship  Congress  in  Pittsburgh,  which  begins  November 
9.    She  will  speak  on  Mormonism.    Her  anti-Mormon  work  here, 
she  says,  has  caused  her  to  be  shadowed  and  threatened  by  the 
Mormons.  United  States  consuls  are  on  the  lookout  for  any  Mor- 
mon converts.    Owing  to  the  strict  passport  regulations  tin  re  is  lit- 
tle chance  that  any  of  these  English  girls  will  be  able  to  sail.  Some 
of  the  girls  to  whom  passport  vises  were  refused  recently  were  sus- 
pected of  being  Mormon  converts." 

Mr.  President,  I  thought  the  time  had  arrived  when  the  newspapers 
of  the  country  would  cease  publishing  such  rot.  How  easy  it  is  for  any 
newspaper  to  send  a  representative  to  the  Bureau  of  Immigration  and  find 
out  just  the  number  of  immigrants  entering  the  United  States  going  to  the 
State  of  Utah  for  any  year  in  the  past,  and  also  to  find  out  the  professions 
and  occupation  of  the  immigrants,  and  the  different  classification  of  each 
as  provided  by  the  department.  If  the  newspaper  doing  so  wants  to  publish 
the  truth  it  would  never  publish  such  statements  as  I  have  just  read. 

I  went  to  the  department,  upon  my  attention  being  called  to  the  news- 
paper article  and  asked  for  a  statement  of  the  number  of  immigrants  for 
Utah  for  the  years  of  1917,  1918,  and  1919.  The  statistics  taken  from  the 
annual  report  of  the  Commissioner  General  of  Immigration  show  some 
interesting  facts.  I  have  taken  the  State  of  Utah  and  compared  it  with 
the  State  of  Colorado  and  the  following  is  the  result: 


Profession. 

Utah. 
1917|1918 

1 

1919 

Cg 
1917 

lora< 
1918 

lo. 
1919 

6  1  8 
96  1  49 
501  1202 
^62  |254 

(*) 
(*) 
(*) 
(*) 

33 
98 
448 

398 

19 
43 
185 

326 

(*) 
(*) 
(*) 
(*) 

No  occupation  (including  women  and  children) 

Grand  total  of  all  immigrants  

965  |513 
118  |  48 

.588 
(*) 

977 
136 

573 
56 

738 
(*) 

♦Figures  not  available. 


The  above  table  shows  that  the  total  number  of  immigrants  with  no 
occupation — including  women  and  children — going  to  Utah  was  smaller 
on  a  percentage  basis  than  the  same  class  going  to  Colorado. 

It  also  shows  the  percentage  of  English  immigrants  of  the  total  which 
went  to  both  states,  the  percentage  being  about  the  same. 

Mr.  President,  the  Commercial  Club  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the  leading 
business  club  of  the  State  of  Utah,  upon  seeing  this  scurrilous  article  against 
the  "Mormon"  Church  published  throughout  the  United  States,  prepared 
and  issued  a  statement,  dated  November  4,  1919,  entitled  "Refutation  issued 
by  the  board  of  governors  of  the  Commercial  Club  of  Salt  Lake  City,"  which 
I  desire  to  read,  as  follows: 

A  STATEMENT  OF  REFUTATION. 

Issued  by  the  Board  of  Governors  of  the  Commercial  Club,  Salt  Lake  City. 
The  attention  of  the  Salt  Lake  Commercial  Club  has  been  called  to  the 


6 


GEX /•  R.  \L  CON I'EREN CE. 


appearance  in  newspapers  in  the  United  States,  of  a  "syndicate  article"  bear- 
ing the  date  line  of  London,  Eng.,  in  some  instances  as  "October  19",  from 
the  pen  of  one  purporting  to  be  George  Selden,  writer  of  the  English  me- 
tropolis, which  is  vicious,  inconsistent  and  maliciously  false  in  its  accusa- 
tions against  the  "Mormon"  Church. 

This  article,  sent  broadcast  through  the  United  States,  contains  quota- 
tions credited  to  one  Winifred  Graham,  to  whom  the  article  refers  as  a  nov- 
elist, some  of  which  are  as  follows: 

"What  is  Mormonism  doing  in  England?  It  works  secretly  as 
in  America  and  snaps  its  fingers  at  law  in  both  countries.  This  very 
minute  the  Church  elders  have  twelve  hundred  girls  ready  for  ship- 
ment to  Utah. 

"The  Mormon  Church  pays  the  fares  and  offers  excellent  wages, 
but  once  it  gets  women  over  it  uses  them  as  it  pleases.  The  war 
gave  the  Mormon  elders  their  greatest  opportunity  for  proselyting. 
In  the  absence  of  the  men  folk  and  because  of  the  deaths  of  thou- 
sands of  soldiers,  the  women  of  the  poorer  classes  fell  easy  victims. 
Secret  meetings  were  held  in  homes  that  attracted  the  neighborhood 
without  attracting  suspicion. 

"Every  girl  is  baptized.  They  then  become  silent  about  polyg- 
amy, but  they  become  either  polygamous  wives  or  slaves  of  the 
Mormon  Church.  Occasionally  we  hear  of  girls  who  are  slaving  on 
Mormon  farms." 


The  Commercial  Club  of  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  through  its  duly  con- 
stituted Board  of  Governors,  hereby  desires  that  it  be  known  that  it  has 
taken  cognizance  of  and  read  these  statements,  which  it  brands  as  being 
vicious  in  intent  and  so  obviously  inconsistent  as  to  be  their  own  refutation, 
and  they  are  scandalous,  pernicious  and  false. 

The  Commercial  Club,  in  line  with  its  activities  from  the  time  of  its 
organization,  is  critically  persistent  and  thorough  in  its  survey  of  conditions 
relating  to  the  interests  of  our  commonwealth  and  is  fully  qualified  by  its 
knowledge  of  facts  to  thus  brand  these  sensational  stories  as  unmitigated 
falsehoods. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  commonly  called  the 
"Mormon"  Church,  is  working  in  harmony  with  other  institutions  in  Utah, 
ecclesiastical  and  civic,  for  the  maintenance  of  the  highest  attainable  stan- 
dard of  morality,  and  has  made  an  enviable  record  in  their  accomplish- 
ment, as  also  in  patriotic  and  devoted  service  to  the  country's  needs. 

This  Commercial  Club  disavows  and  condemns,  with  disapprobation 
equally  strong  the  circulate*  falsehoods  of  "Mormon"  interference  in  State 
or  National  politics.  The  "Mormon"  people  exercise  their  political  rights 
and  preferences  in  common  with  their  fellow-citizens  who  are  not  of  their 
faith;  and  this  Club  unhesitatingly  affirms  that  the  stories  alleging  "Mor- 
mon" control  of  political  parties  in  this  State  or  elsewhere  are  but  myths 
and  fables,  without  even  the  merit  of  apparent  consistency  to  excuse  their 
periodical  re-telling.  (Sgd.)    Lester  D.  Freed, 

President  Commercial  Club, 
H.  N.  Byrne  C.  B.  Hawley  A.  N.  McKav 

H.  M.  Chamberlain  J.  C.  Howard  C.  W.  Nibley 

Joseph  Decker  S.   R.   Inch  F.  C.  Schramm 

Lester  D.  Freed  Jas.  Ingebretsen  M.  H.  Sowles 

R.  C.  Gemmell  D.  Carlos  Kimball  Charles  Tyng 

(Board  of  Governors) 

Mr.  President,  I  protest  against  the  libelous  press  matter  that  has  been 
published  throughout  the  country,  that  the  blatantly  heralded  announce- 
ment of  the  falsehoods  an  English  writer  of  fiction  has  come  here  to  tell. 
The  Church  has  nothing  to  conceal.  I  want  the  people  of  the  United  States 
to  know  that  as  far  as  polygamy  is  concerned  it  is  dead,  and  scandalmongers 
in  the  future  must  find  some  other  hobby  to  ride. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


7 


All  I  ask  is  that  the  "Mormon"  Church  and  its  adherents  be  judged  by 
the  fruit  of  the  tree.  No  one  can  examine  the  record  made  by  that  people 
during  the  World  War  without  coming  to  the  conclusion  that  no  more  loyal 
people  live  on  this  earth.  No  call  was  made  upon  them  without  an  immed- 
iate response,  and  not  only  for  the  amount  asked  for  but  for  nearly  double 
the  amount  in  most  every  case.  They  not  only  furnished  their  quota  of 
soldiers  but  in  some  of  the  calls  100  and  200  per  cent  more. 

Mr.  President,  I  would  not  have  taken  the  time  of  the  Senate  to  make 
this  short  statement  if  it  had  not  been  requested  of  me.  I  will  say:  The 
signers  of  the  statement  of  refutation  are  at  least  three-fourths  non-mem- 
bers of  the  "Mormon"  Church,  and  they  are  the  leading  business  men  of 
the  State.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  people  of  this  country  ought  now  to 
understand  the  true  situation  and  if  the.  "New  "York  World"  or  the  "New 
York  American"  desires  to  learn  the  truth  about  the  "Mormon"  people,  I 
will  gladly  pay  all  expenses  of  a  representative  of  either  paper,  if  it  desired 
to  make  an  honest  investigation. 

I  am  a  Senator  of  the  United  States.  I  represent  all  the  people  of  Utah 
and  not  any  church  as  such.  I  have  never  felt  called  upon  to  defend  the 
"Mormon"  Church  against  false  attacks,  because  I  felt  that  sooner  or  later 
the  truth  would  be  understood  by  all  the  people.  I  am  not  making  this 
statement  as  a  representative  of  the  "Mormon"  Church  but  as  a  United 
States  Senator. 

The  "Mormon"  Church  has  been  foully  misrepresented  from  many 
sources  in  the  past.  I  confidently  look  forward  to  the  day  when  the  "Mor- 
mon" people  will  be  known  as  they  are  and  not  as  represented. 

BY  SENATOR  ASHURST,  OF  ARIZONA. 

Mr.  Ashurst.  Mr.  President,  I  am  very  glad  that  the  Senator  from 
Utah  [Mr.  Smoot]  has  spoken  as  he  has.  It  was  time  for  such  a  speech. 
A  matchless  maker  of  epigrams  said  that  when  "once  a  lie  or  a  counterfeit 
statement  gets  into  circulation  it  is  well-nigh  impossible  to  overtake  it", 
and  therefore  I  believe  the  Senator  has  done  a  service  to  his  country  in  ex- 
posing this  infamous  slander,  which  has  been  published  broadcast  against  so 
many  worthy  people. 

When  I  read  the  article,  I  felt  offended  because  there  are  in  Arizona 
a  large  number  of  "Mormon"  people,  or  people  who  belong  to  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints;  and  I  would  be  false  to  that  principle 
of  fair  play  for  which  I  have  always  pretended  that  I  stood  if  I  failed  at 
this  time  to  say  a  word  on  the  subject. 

Tt  may  be  true  that  I  do  not  understand  fully  the  theology  of  the  "Mor- 
mon" Church;  but,  Mr.  President,  the  first  church  I  ever  attended  was  a 
"Mormon"  Church.  When  there  was  no  other  church  within  100  miles  of  the 
lonely  frontier  cabin  where  my  parents  lived,  we  found  solace  and  comfort 
in  attending  the  "Mormon"  Church  situated  9  miles  distant.  Our  nearest — 
in  fact,  our  only — neighbors  for  years  were  the  "Mormon"  people.  Better 
neighbors  no  pioneer  ever  had.  I  am  proud  of  the  "Mormon"  people.  I 
am  proud  of  the  friendship  that  I  have  for  them,  and  that  I  believe  they 
have  for  me;  and  while,  as  I  said  before,  I  do  not  completely  understand 
their  theology,  I  am  able  to  say  here,  in  the  Senate  of  the  United  States, 
that  their  church  has  elevated  many  intellects  and  purified  many  hearts  m 
my  State. 

As  pioneers  in  a  new  country,  the  "Mormons"  are  unrivaled.  They  are 
sober,  industrious,  frugal,  honest.  They  are  pre-eminently  state  builders; 
and  today,  if  called  upon  to  name  a  people  who  could  most  expeditiously 
transform  a  desert  of  swirling  and  heated  sands  into  splendid  fields  sind 
farms,  I  would  unhesitatingly  choose  the  "Mormon"  people.  In  mnny 
places  where  once  cacti  lifted  their  thorny  arms  into  the  brazen  and  heni.ed 
air,  "Mormon"  industry  has  reared  temples,  hospitals,  homes,  factories, 
and  schools. 

Moreover.  T  never  saw  a  "Mormon"  I.  W.  W. ;  but  X  have,  at  some 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


count}-  courthouses  in  my  State,  heard  disgruntled,  lazy,  and  indolent  men 
who  did  not  belong  to  the  "Mormon"  Church,  sit  on. the  steps  of  the  court- 
house and  curse  the  Government  and  curse  the  President,  while  ''Mormon" 
citizens  were  going  into  the  same  county  courthouse  to  pay  taxes  with- 
out complaint. 

Mr.  Owen.    Mr.  President — — 

Mr.  Ashurst.    I  yield  for  a  question. 

Mr.  Owen.  I  should  like  to  ask  the  Senator  if  it  is  not  a  tenet  of  the 
"Mormons"  to  teach  and  preach  industry  and  thrift? 

Mr.  Ashurst.  I  am  able  to  state  that  industry  and  thrift  are  amongst 
the  foundation  stones  of  the  "Mormon"  Church.  Absolute  and  unques- 
tioned obedience  to  law  is  a  tenet  of  the  "Mormon"  Church.  Respect  for 
authority  is  one  of  the  tenets  of  the  "Mormon"  Church.  We  need  more 
of  such  people  in  thesd  perilous  times  of  the  Republic;  and  again  I  would 
be  false  to  every  principle  of  justice  and  to  every  sentiment  of  gratitude  if 
I  failed  to  state  at  this  time  that  when  savage  Indians  galloped  along 
by  our  pioneer  homes,  burning  and  murdering,  plundering  and  scalping  as 
they  went,  it  was  to  the  "Mormon"  people  that  my  defenseless  but  heroic 
parents  went  for  refuge  and  defense. 

So,  Mr.  President,  I  say  the  Senator  from  Utah  has  done  well  in 
"scotching"  this  falsehood,  which  has  been  given  such  wide  circulation. 
I  believe  the  American  people  ar  coming  at  last  fully  to  undrstand  the 
"Mormon"  people.  Their  temples,  schools,  fields,  homes,  industry,  frugality, 
their  morality  and  their  patriotism  testify  for  them  in  more  eloquent  terms 
than  the  Senator  or  I  could  speak.  Then,  again,  observe  their  Representa- 
tives in  the  House  and  in  the  Senate.  Look  at  the  high  class  of  public  ser- 
vants they  send  here.  I  ask  that  the  "Mormons"  be  judged  as  a  people, 
judged  as  a  religion,  as  the  Senator  says,  by  their  fruits;  and  if  they  be 
judged  by  their  fruits  the  verdict  of  the  world  will  be  in  their  favor. 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  time  should  be  welcomed  in  America  when 
men  shall  not  further  be  assailed  because  of  their  religion  or  lack  of  re- 
ligion. Men  ought  not  further  to  be  assailed  or  discriminated  against  be- 
cause of  their  particular  view  of  how  to  follow  the  Master.  America  was 
built  up,  and  one  of  the  reasons  why  the  migrations  came  from  the  old 
countries  to  these  shores  was  that  our  ancestors  desired  to  find  a  place  to 
build  free  and  strong  states  where  such  ignoble  sentiments  as  bigotry 
could  not  survive. 

Mr.  President,  I  do  not  forget  that  this  splendid  domain  of  Arizona, 
one  of  the  imperial  states  of  this  Union,  came  into  being  largely  through  the 
brave  exploits  of  the  "Mormon"  people.  When  General  Stephen  Kearny 
was  beleaguered  near  San  Diego  during  the  Mexican  War,  and  it  seemed 
as  if  the  Mexicans  were  going  to  capture  and  annihilate  him  and  his  entire 
command,  it  was  the  "Mormon"  battalion  that  marched  all  the  long  way 
from  Iowa  into  Tucson,  Arizona,  and  occupied  in  Mexican  territory  a  do- 
main we  now  know  as  the  Gadsden  Purchase,  which  was  purchased  by  our 
Government  in  1854.  When  the  commanding  officer,  Lieut.  Col.  St.  George 
Cooke,  entered  the  Mexican  town  of  Tucson  and  raised  the  American  flag, 
he  issued  a  pronunciamento,  and  I  wish  the  German  outragers  had  read 
that  document  before  they  invaded  Belgium.  The  lieutenant  colonel  en- 
tering the  city  of  Tucson,  nearly  1,500  miles  from  civilization,  said  in  his 
manifesto  to  the  people  of  Mexico: 

_  "We  do  not  war  upon  civilians.  We  make  war  against  men  in 
uniform  only.  The  property  of  individuals  will  be  held  sacred. 
All  civil  rights  will  be  upheld.  Those  who  obey  the  law  and  con- 
form to  order  will  be  protected." 

The  command  remained  there  some  days  to  refresh  itself  and  then 
marched  on  to  the  relief  of  General  Kearny,  who,  as  I  said,  was  beleagured 
and  surrounded  near  San  Diego. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


9 


So,  Mr.  President,  the  "Mormon"  people,  as  pioneers,  as  state-builders, 
as  statesmen,  as  people  of  industry  and  patriotism,  in  every  department  <^f 
life,  compare  well  and  favorably  with  the  general  mass  of  their  fellow  citi- 
zens. This  much  I  feel  I  should  have  said;  more  than  that  I  need  not  say. 

BY  SENATOR  THOMAS,  OF  COLORADO. 

Mr.  Thomas.  Mr.  President,  I  am  not  and  never  have  been  a  com- 
municant of  any  church,  and  if  I  live  to  be  as  old  again  as  I  am  now,  I 
would  not  change.  In  my  youth  1  was  greatly  impressed  with  a  remark  of 
Gibbon,  that  "all  religions  are  to  the  vulgar  equally  true,  to  the  philosopher 
equally  false,  and  to  the  statesman  equally  useful,"  and  the  experience  of 
mature  years  has  served  to  deepen  the  impression.  I  have  never  been  able 
to  reconcile  the  tenets  and  doctrines  of  all  religious  faiths  with  that  spirit 
of  persecution  and  fanaticism  they  develop  toward  each  other,  and  which 
has  so  many  times  culminated  in  destructive  and  decimating  wars.  I 
believe  in  religious  toleration,  without  any  conditions  whatever,  except 
those  required  by  the  tenets  of  morality  and  of  law  and  order.  Hence  I 
have  remained  aloof  from  identification  with  any  faith. 

Up  to  this  time  I  have  never  found  occasion  to  publicly  defend  the 
"Mormon"  people,  because  it  has  not  seemed  necessary;  but  I  can  not 
allow  the  occasion  to  pass  without  paying  tribute  to  their  morality  and 
usefulness,  not  only  to  their  own  communities,  but  as  exemplars  to  the 
whole  country  in  perilous  times  like  these. 

Mr.  President,  when  respect  for  the  law  is  the  exception  and  not  the 
rule,  when  the  different  forces  of  society  are  so  antagonistic  that  the  po- 
litical structure  is  menaced  with  danger,  it  is  refreshing  to  note  that  the 
adherents  of  this  faith  have  at  all  times  been  the  advocates  and  the  ex- 
ponents of  peace,  of  justice,  of  law,  and  of  order;  and  however  just  the 
criticisms  aimed  against  former  institutions,  the  fact  remains,  as  established 
by  more  than  half  a  century  of  practice,  that  the  communities  professing 
the  "Mormon"  faith  are  among  the  best  and  highest  exemplars  of  American 
citizenship. 

During  the  war  there  was  much  disloyalty  in  America..  Scarcely  any 
commonwealth  was  entirely  free  from  it.  During  the  war  resistance  to 
the  draft  occasionally  punctuated  our  dispatches,  and  the  expression  of 
toleration  or  friendliness  to  the  enemy  was  one  of  the  commonest  of  occur- 
rences. But  during  that  critical  period  upon  no  occasion  which  I  can  re- 
member did  the  people  of  Utah,  "Mormon"  and  Gentile,  fail  to  whole-heart- 
edly, loyally,  and  enthusiastically  respond  to  every  -call  made  by  the  Gov- 
ernment for  soldiers  or  for  money.  Not  in  a  single  instance  did  this  peo- 
ple falter.  Their  splendid  youth  were  given  freely  to  our  armies,  and  the 
blood  of  their  boys  sanctifies  the  soil  of  every  battle  field  in  France. 
y  Every  loan  drive  was  responded  to,  not  by  the  quota,  but  far  beyond  it, 
and  in  everything  that  contributed  to  good  citizenship,  to  patriotism,  to 
loyalty,  and  to  love  of  country,  these  people  were  ever  conspicuous;  and 
it  is  due  to  them,  as  one  of  the  representatives  from  a  neighboring  state 
wherein  many  of  these  people  are  located,  and  are  among  our  best  citizens, 
that  I  should  say  so. 

We  have  not  many  "Mormons"  in  the  State  of  Colorado.  Some  years 
ago  a  settlement  was  established  in  what  is  known  as  the  San  Luis  Valley. 
It  has  grown,  it  has  flourished,  it  is  prosperous.  Its  people  are  law-abiding, 
they  are  industrious,  they  are  hard  working,  they  pay  their  debts,  they 
obey  and  support  the  authorities.  Bolshevism,  anarchism,  and  socialism 
are  foreign  to  the  atmosphere  of  that  community.  They  can  not  take  root 
in  such  a  soil. 

These  people  are  today,  therefore,  one  of  the  pillars  of  the  social, 
'economic,  and  political  systems  of  the  country,  whose  removal  might  im- 
peril the  entire  structure  of  our  social,  economic,  and  political  life.  Their 
faith  I  am  not  concerned  with;  their  character  and  their  achievements  are 
a  credit  to  them  and  an  incalculable  benefit  to  the  country. 


10 


GEN  UK.  \L  CONFERENCE. 


BY  SENATOR  HENDERSON,  OF  NEVADA. 

Mr.  Henderson.  .Mr.  President,  I  wish  to  express  my  approval  of  and 
join  in  all  that  has  been  said  by  ihe  >emor  Senator  from  Colorado  [Mr. 
Thomas]  relative  to  those  of  the  "Mormon"  faith.  We  have  in  eastern 
Nevada  a  number  of  "Mormon"  settlements.  I  have  visited  a  number  of 
them.  1  wish  to  say  that  there  are  no  better  citizens  in  the  country  than 
those  of  that  faith.  In  one  community  that  I  know  of,  established  over  40 
years  ago,  there  has  never  been  a  jail.  I  believe  that  is  true  of  the  others. 
These  people  never  have  any  use  for  jails.  Where  they  go,  law  and  order 
prevail,  and  thrift  and  economy  are  taught  and  practiced. 

Mr.  President,  the  record  of  the  "Mormon"  people,  throughout  the 
war  has  been  without  a  blemish.  Their  sons  were  amongst  the  first  to  en- 
list and  their  quota  was  quickly  filled.  They  oversubscribed  their  pro- 
portion of  Liberty  bonds.  Their  patriotism  has  been  of  the  highest  order 
and  without  question. 

There  is  much  that  can  be  said  in  their  favor,  Mr.  President,  but  I 
shall  not  detain  the  Senate  longer,  as  there  are  some  Senators  waiting  to 
address  the  Senate  on  the  proposed  reservation  to  article  10.  I  am  glad, 
however,  of  the  opportunity  to  express  my  disapproval  of  the  attack  di- 
rected against  the  "Mormons"  referred  to  by  the  Senator  from  Utah  [Mr. 
Smoot]. 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  these  Senators  can  truthfully  pay  such 
tributes  to  our  people. 

I  wish  to  lift  my  voice  and  to  warn  every  member  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  against  the  destruction  of  the 
property  of  any  man,  of  any  corporation  or  of  any  city  in  these  United 
States  of  America. 

LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  WORK  AGAINST  DESTRUCTION  OF  PROPERTY. 

Property  is  the  fruit  of  labor;  property  is  desirable,  it  is  a  positive  good 
in  the  world;  that  some  should  be  rich  shows  that  others  may  become  rich 
and  hence  is  just  encouragement  to  industry  and  enterprise.  Let  not  him 
who  is  houseless  pull  down  the  house  of  another,  but  let  him  work  dili- 
gently and  build  one  for  himself,  thus  by  example  assuring  that  his  own 
shall  be  safe  from  violence  when  built."— Abraham  Lincoln. 

There  is  an  evil  rampant,  at  the  present  time,  among  some 
who  are  teaching  that  it  is  justifiable  to  destroy  property, 
and  even  to  destroy  life  in  trying-  to  accomplish  their  purposes,  and  I 
desire  to  lift  my  voice,  with  all  the  ability  and  with  all  the  power  with 
which  God  has  endowed  me,  against  anything  of  this  kind.  I  have 
been  criticized  and  letters  have  been  written  to  me  by  professed  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  finding  fault  with  my  remarks  at  the  last  conference 
about  upholding  the  law  ;  and  the  only  answer  that  I  desire  to  give  to 
these  criticisms,  as  I  have  not  taken  the  time  to  answer  the  letters  is 
to  read  again  the  identical  words  that  I  delivered  when  I  stood  here 
before  you  six  months  ago.  They  were  not  premedidated  or  thought 
out  and  I  have  concluded  that  I  could  not  do  any  better  than  to  read 
them,  word  for  word,  and  say  they  are  my  sentiments  today: 

MUST  RESPECT  RIGHTS  OF  OTHERS. 

As  Latter-day  Saints  we  have  what  is  known  as  The  Articles  of  Faith, 
and  one  of  them  reads:  'We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents 
rulers  and  magistrates,  in  obeying,  honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law  "  and 
no  Latter-day  Saint  can  in  very  deed  be  a  Latter-day  Saints  if  he  does  not 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


11 


honor  and  sustain  and  uphold  the  law.  Nearly  all  over  the  world,  at  the 
present  time  there  is  a  spirit  of  lawlessness,  a  spirit  of  ridicule,  and  a  lack 
of  respect  for  the  men  who  hold  positions. 

I  want  to  say  that  I  am  perfectly  willing  that  men  shall  join  labor 
unions,  that  they  shall  band  together  for  the  purpose  of  protecting  their 
rights,  provided  they  do  not  interfere  with  the  right?  of  other  people.  Life, 
liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness  belong  to  all  people  in  the  United 
States,  according  to  the  laws  of  our  country,  and  should,  upon  all  the  face 
of  the  earth;  and  I  say  that,  to  my  mind,  a  provision  in  a  labor  union  is 
all  wrong  that  favors  boycotting  and  the  laying  down  of  tools  or  the  quit- 
ting of  employment  because  a  non-union  man  obtains  employment  while 
exercising  his  God-given  right  to  stay  out  of  a  union.  Men  who  have  that 
kind  of  a  rule  have  a  rule  that  is  in  direct  opposition  to  the  laws  of  God. 
There  was  a  battle  fought  in  heaven — for  what?  To  give  to  man  his  in- 
dividual liberty.  An  attempt  to  take  the  agency  of  man  away  is  made 
when  he  does  not  see  fit  to  join  a  union,  and  when  men  in  that  union,  with- 
out any  complaint  or  grievance,  strike  because  a  non-union  man  is  em- 
ployed. 

Now,  I'd  better  not  say  any  more,  perhaps,  on  this  question,  or  I  may 
offend  somebody,  I  may  hurt  somebody's  feelings;  but  it  is  the  God-given 
right  of  men  to  earn  their  livelihood.  The  Savior  said  it  was  the  first  great 
law  or  commandment  to  love  the  Lord  with  all  our  hearts,  and  that  the  sec- 
ond was  like  unto  it,  to  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  That  is  the  doctrine 
for  every  true  Latter-day  Saint.  How  much  love  is  there  in  starving  your 
neighbor  because  he  will  not  surrender  his  manhood  and  his  individuality, 
and  allow  a  labor  union  to  direct  his  labor?  Mighty  little  love,  mighty 
little  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  any  such  a  rule!  I  hope 
to  see  the  day  when  no  Latter-day  Saint  will  join  a  union  unless  the  union 
eliminate  that  clause  from  its  rules.  I  am  not  going  to  ask  them  to  leave 
their  union.  I  am  not  going  to  lay  it  down  that  they  must,  that  it  is  the 
mind  and  the  will  of  the  Lord  for  them  to  le<tve  a  union,  I  want,  as  I 
said  here  two  weeks  ago,  to  give  every  man  Lis  free  agency,  to  give  every 
man  the  right  to  act  as  he  thinks  proper,  but  I  cannot  see  how  a  Latter- 
day  Saint  who  is  a  member  of  such  a  union  can  get  down  on  his  knees 
and  pray  for  God  to  inspire  and  bless  him,  to  bless  the  Saints  and  to 
protect  them  and  then  be  a  party  to  allowing  one  of  his  own  brethren  to 
go,  year  after  year,  without  employment,  because  that  brother  will  not  sur- 
render his  manhood  and  join  a  union  with  him.  There  is  none  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  in  that,  to  my  mind.    That  is  exactlv  the  way  I  see  it. 

I  desire,  as  stated,  to  emphasize  and  re-emphasize  those  statements 
delivered  here  six  months  ago.  I  believe  that  it  is  the  absolute  right 
of  men  to  combine  together  for  their  protection,  for  their  advance- 
ment, for  their  welfare  in  unions,  but  as  stated  here,  I  deprecate  the 
idea  of  their  undertaking  to  dictate  to  those  who  will  not  join  them. 
I  believe  this  is  all  I  desire  to  say  upon  that  subject. 

PROGRESS  IN  THE  MISSIONS. 

Since  we  last  met  here,  it  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  hold  meetings 
in  the  Central  States  Mission,  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission,  in  the 
Canadian  Mission,  and  three  times  in  various  parts  of  the  California 
Mission.  It  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  visit  the  capital  of  our  Union  and 
to  hold  a  meeting  there.  It  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  visit  some  of  the 
stakes  of  Zion,  especially  two  in  Arizona,  the  Maricopa  and  the  St. 
Joseph  stakes,  and  to  hold  a  meeting  in  the  capital  of  Arizona.  I  wish 
to  say  that  I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  change  of  sentiment  regarding 


12 


GENER.  \L  CONFERENCE. 


the  Latter-day  Saints  that  has  come  to  people  wherever  I  have  met  with 
them  during  the  past  six  months.  In  addition  to  these  visits  I  have 
had  the  privilege  of  visiting  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  with  some  of  the 
hrethren  of  the  general  authorities,  and  of  dedicating  there  to  the 
Lord  one  more  temple  for  holy  ordinances  for  the  salvation  of  the 
dead.  And  I  want  to  hear  witness  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  there 
was,  with  our  small  party  on  that  trip  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  in  the 
dedication  of  that  temple,  in  the  various  services  that  were  held  there, 
lasting  for  a  number  of  days,  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  God  Al- 
mighty, and  that  we  were  hlcssed  abundantly,  beyond  our  power  to 
tell.  There  is  something  that  no  mortal  tongue  can  tell,  when  an  in- 
dividual realizes  and  knows  that  while  proclaiming  the  gospel  of  our 
Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ  he  has  been  blessed  by  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord;  and  that  was  our  experience  in  dedicating  another 
temple  to  the  Lord  in  that  far-off  land.  The  Hawaiian  people  have 
a  dark  skin,  but  their  hearts  are  white,  their  loyalty  to  God  is  per- 
fect, and  the  Lord  Almighty  has  abundantly  blessed  many  of  that 
people  by  giving  to  them  an  absolute  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

RESPIiCT  GROWING  FOR  OUR  CHURCH. 

I  am  thankful  that  wherever  I  have  traveled  during  the  past  six 
months  I  have  found  a  feeling  of  respect,  a  feeling  of  love  in  the 
hearts  of  many  for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  the  hearts  of  those  not  of 
our  faith.  I  heard  many  very  splendid  compliments  while  in  Washing- 
ton by  members  of  the  president's  cabinet,  by  senators  and  representa- 
tives, and  by  officials  of  the  government  in  the  Federal  Reserve  bank- 
ing departments,  and  in  others,  wherever  I  went,  and  with  all  the 
people  that  I  met,  bankers  in  New  York,  Chicago,  San  Francisco  and 
other  cities,  I  heard  good  things  said  of  the  Latter-day  Saints;  we 
are  coming  into  our  own,  so  to  speak.  Our  character  is  becoming 
known,  and  no  longer  can  men  lie  about  "the  Latter-day  Saints,  or 
women  either,  and  get  away  with  the  lies  with  the  great  majority  of 
the  people  in  our  country. 

While  our  reputation  has  been  bad,  this  reputation  has  come  to 
us,  how?  Because  of  the  lies,  as  a  rule,  by  men  who  have  been  ex- 
communicated from  this  Church.  No  loyal,  patriotic  American  citizen 
wants  the  people  of  our  country  to  be  judged  by  the  Benedict  Arnolds 
that  the  country  has  produced ;  but  the  men  of  America  desire  that  our 
country  shall  be  judged  by  its  achievements,  by  the  men  who  have 
been  loyal  to  that  God-inspired  instrument,  the  Constitution  of  our 
country.  All  we  ask  of  any  people  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  is  that 
they  shall  judge  the  Latter-day  Saints  by  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet 
of  the  living  God,  by  the  record  that  he  made  in  the  few  short  years 
that  he  stood  at  the  head  of  the  Church.  The  Church  was  organized  in 
1830,  90  years  ago,  and  he  presided  over  it  for  only  14  years.  The 
accomplishments  of  those  14  years  under  his  administration,  what  he 
did,  and  what  he  left  to  the  Church  in  the  wonderful  revelations  that 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


13 


he  gave  to  us,  in  the  translating  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  that  sacred 
Scripture  .of  the  forefathers  of  the  American  Indian,  and  the  wonder- 
ful labors  that  he  performed,  these  stand  as  a  monument  stamping 
him,  in  very  deed,  a  prophet  of  the  living  God.  No  man  without  the 
inspiration  of  God,  in  14  short  years,  could  have  accomplished  what 
Joseph  Smith  did;  could  have  laid  the  foundation  of  this  great  work 
to  which  you  and  I  belong.  And  as  the  years  come  and  go,  men  are 
beginning  to  recognize  the  greatness  of  the  labor  he  performed. 

MAKE  SACRIFICES  FOR  GOSPEL. 

I  remember  as  a  boy  that  I  borrowed  a  book  from  the  Thirteenth 
ward  Sunday  School  library ;  it  was  on  the  evidences  of  Christianity  by 
Dr.  Paley,  and  I  remember  among  other  things,  in  that  book,  that  he 
stated  that  the  strongest  evidence  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Savior 
of  the  world  was  the  absolute  loyalty  of  those  who  embraced  Christian- 
ity, and  their  willingness  to  lay  down  their  lives,  if  need  be,  for  the 
testimony  that  they  possessed  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Savior.  I 
remember  thinking  as  a  boy:  If  that  is  the  strongest  evidence,  of  men 
being  willing  to  lay  down  their  lives  and  to  voluntarily  make  sacrfices 
and  to  stand  up  under  persecution,  then  that  same  identical  evidence 
applies  to  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  were  driven  from  city  to  city,  county  to  county,  state 
to  state,  and  finally  beyond  the  confines  of  the  United  States  to  the 
Rocky  Mountains,  then  Mexican  territory.  They  could  have  had  im- 
munity, they  could  have  dwelt  in  peace,  had  they  renounced  their 
faith ;  but  our  fathers  and  our  mothers  had  received  the  witness  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  and  they  knew  that  Jesus  was  the  Savior,  they  knew 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  in  very  deed  a  prophet  of  God.  The  Lord  Al- 
mighty had  implanted  in  their  hearts  a  knowledge  that  God  did,  one 
hundred  years  ago  this  spring,  appear  to  a  boy ;  that  he  did  speak  to 
that  boy ;  and  that  when  the  boy  asked  of  our  Father  in  Heaven, 
"Which  of  all  the  religious  denominations  in  the  world  is  the  true 
Church  of  Christ?"  in  answer  to  that  question  our  God  and  our  Father 
pointed  to  the  Savior  of  the  world  and  said :  "This  is  my  beloved  Son, 
hear  Him."  The  Savior  of  the  world  told  that  boy  to  join  none  of 
the  sects,  that  they  had  all  gone  astray,  that  they  were  teaching  for 
doctrine  the  ideas  and  the  commandments  of  men,  and  that  they  did 
not  have  the  true  Church  of  Christ.  When  that  boy  returned  from 
that  wonderful  and  marvelous  vision,  the  greatest  event  in  all  the  his- 
tory of  the  world,  excepting  only  the  birth  and  death  of  the  Savior, 
his  mother  saw  that  there  was  something  strange  about  his  appearance 
and  asked  him  some  questions ;  and  he  simply  answered,  in  substance, 
and  said  to  his  mother  (who  was  a  Presbyterian)  :  "Mother,  there  is 
one  thing  I  know  now,  and  that  is  that  the  Presbyterian  church  is  not 
the  Church  of  Christ." 

When  he  related  his  vision  to  ministers  and  others  the  boy  was 
ridiculed. 

Three  years  later  an  angel  of  God  appeared  and  told  him  there 
was  buried  in  the  hill  Cumorah  some  golden  plates  containing  a  record, 


14 


GENERAL  CON EEREN CE. 


a  sacred  record  of  the  forefathers  of  the  American  Indian,  and  that 
he  should  be  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  of  translating  those 
plates.  The  angel  gave  him  many  wonderful  instructions  and  quoted 
much  Scripture  to  him ;  then  disappeared.  He  returned  and  repeated 
his  instructions  and  disappeared.  He  returned  again  and  repeated  those 
instructions,  the  three  visitations  occupying  the  entire  night.  The  next 
day  when  that  boy  went  to  his  work  in  the  field  with  his  father,  having 
had  no  rest  during  the  night,  his  father  saw  that  he  was  not  feeling 
well  and  told  him  to  go  home ;  and  as  he  was  climbing  a  fence  he  faint- 
ed, but  he  was  aroused  from  his  faint  by  the  voice  of  the  messenger 
who  for  the  fourth  time  repeated  all  that  he  had  said  during  the  prev- 
ious night,  and  told  him  to  go  back  to  his  father  and  tell  his  father 
all  that,  he  had  heard  and  seen.  This  he  did.  and  the  boy's  father 
answered:  "This  is  of  God.  Listen  to  the  teachings  of  the  angel."  The 
boy  visited  the  hill  Cumorah ;  he  saw  the  plates  and  was  instructed 
by  the  messenger  to  come  there  once  a  year  for  four' years,  to  be  in- 
structed by  that  angel  of  God,  regarding  the  great  and  marvelous  work 
that  was  to  come  forth  in  the  last  days.  At  the  end  of  four  years  the 
plates  containing  the  record  were  delivered  to  him  by  the  angel  Moroni. 
He  translated  those  plates,  and  the  translation  is  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

VAST  MULTITUDE  HAVE  TESTIMONY. 

0  but,  says  one,  I  don't  believe  a  word  of  it.  There  are  thousands, 
there  are  tens  of  thousands  of  men  and  women,  from  the  midnight  sun 
country  in  Scandinavia  to  South  Africa,  all  over  Europe,  from  Canada 
to  South  America,  in  every  state  of  the  Union  of  the  United  States, 
upon  the  islands  of  the  Pacific,  who  stand  up  and  in  all  humility  bear 
witness  before  high  heaven  that  God  has  given  to  them  a  knowledge 
that  Joseph  Smith  did  see  him,  that  Joseph  Smith  did  see  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  visited  by  angels  of  God,  that  he 
was  ordained  to  the  apostleship,  that  he  did  in  very  deed  commune 
with  the  Savior  of  the  world,  that  he  was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God. 
All  the  non-belief,  all  the  lack  of  faith  of  all  the  people  in  all  the  world 
cannot  change  that  fact,  if  it  be  a  fact,  and  God  has  given  many  of  us 
a  knowledge,  an  absolute  knowledge  that  it  is  a  fact,  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  prophet  and  that  this  Gospel,  called  by  the  world  "Mormonism," 
is  in  very  deed  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

TESTIMONY  OF  PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

1  want  to  read  one  of  the  latest  testimonies  regarding  the  divinity 
of  this  gospel,  given  from  this  stand  by  our  late  beloved  Prophet, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  to  where  divine  authority  exists  today : 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  no  partisan  church. 
It  is  not  a  sect.  It  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It 
is  the  only  one  today  existing  in  the  world  that  can  and  does  legitimately 
bear  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  and  his  divine  authority.  I  make  this  declara- 
tion in  all  simplicity  and  honesty  before  you  and  before  all  the  world,  bit- 
ter as  the  truth  may  seem  to  those  who  are  opposed  and  who  have  no 
reason  for  that  opposition.    It  is  nevertheless  true  and  will  remain  true 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


15 


until  he  who  has  a  right  to  rule  among  the  nations  of  the  earth  and  among 
the  individual  children  of  God  throughout  the  world  shall  come  and  take  the 
reins  of  government  and  receive  the  bride  that  shall  be  prepared  for  the 
coming  of  the  Bridegroom. 

Many  of  our  great  writers  have  recently  been  querying  and  wondering 
where  the  divine  authority  exists  today  to  fommand  in  the  name  of  the 
Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  so  that  it  will  be  in  effect 
and  acceptable  at  the  throne  of  the  Eternal  Father.  I  will  announce  here 
and  now,  presumptuous  as  it  may  seem  to  be  to  those  who  know  not  the 
truth,  that  the  divine  authority  of  Almighty  God,  to  speak  in  the  name  of 
the  Father  and  of  the  Son,  is  here  in  the  midst  of  these^  everlasting  thills, 
in  the  midst  of  this  intermountain  region,  and  it  will  abide  and  will  con- 
tinue, for  God  is  its  source,  and  God  is  the  power  by  which  it  has  been  main- 
tained against  all  opposition  in  the  world  up  tb.the  present,  and  by  which 
it  will  continue  to  progress  and  grow  and  increase  on  the  earth  until  it 
shall  cover  the  earth  from  sea  to  sea.  This  is  my  testimony  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  have  a  fulness  of  joy  and  of  satisfaction  in  being- 
able  to  declare  this  without  regard  to,  or  fear  of,  all  the  adversaries  of 
the  truth. 

We  heard  sung  here  three  verses  of  the  hymn,  "O,  say  what  is 
truth?"  and  I  request  that  in  the  future  the  choir  sing  all  four  verses, 
and  not  omit  the  last. 

OH,  SAY,  WHAT  IS  TRUTH? 

O,  say,  what  is  truth?    Tis  the  fairest  gem 

That  the  riches  of  worlds  can  produce 
And  priceless  the  value  of  truth  will  be, 
When  the  proud  monarch's  costliest  diadem 

Is'  counted  but  dross  and  refuse. 

Yes,  say  what  is  truth?    'Tis  the  brightest  prize 

To  which  mortals  or  Gods  can  aspire: 
Go  search  in  the  depths  where  it  flittering  lies. 
Or  ascend  in  pursuit  to  the  loftiest  skies; 

'Tis  an  aim  for  the  noblest  desire. 

The  scepter  may  fall  from  the  despot's  grasp, 

When  with  winds  of  stern  justice  he  copes; 
But  the  pillar  of  truth  will  endure  to  the  last 
And  its  firm-rooted  bulwarks  outstand  the  rude  blast 

And  the  wreck  of  the  fell  tyrant's  hopes. 

Then,  say,  what  is  truth?    'Tis  the  hist  and  the  first, 

For  the  limits  of  time  it  steps  o'er: 
Though  the  heavens  depart  and  the  earth's  fountains  burst, 
Truth,  the  sum  of  existence,  will  weather  the  worst, 

Eternal,  unchanged,  evermore. 

CLOSING  TESTIMONY. 

And  I  bear  witness  to  you,  here  today  that  we  have  the  truth, 
that  God  has  spoken  again,  that  every  gift,  every  grace,  every  power, 
and ^  every  endowment  W  came  through  the  Holy  Priesthood  o  the 
Hving  God  in  the  days  of  the  Savior,  are  enjoyed  today  God  lives 
Testis  the  Christ,  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the 
ivma  God     "Mormonisrn,"  so  called,  is  in  very  deed  the  gospel  of 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Lord  Tesus  Christ.  God  has  given  me  a  witness  of  these  things. 
I  know  them  and  I  bear  that  witness  to  you,  in  all  humility,  and  I 
do  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  com- 
muned with  Jehovah."  Three  verses  were  sung  and  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  stated  that  hereafter  he  would  like  to  have  the  fourth  verse 
sung  by  the  choir  whenever  sung  in  his  presence.  He  then  read  the 
last  verse  of  the  hymn. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND 

I  hope  that  the  remarks  I  shall  make  can  be  heard  by  you.  I 
know  you  are  all  able  to  hear  our  President,  and  we  all  rejoiced 
in  the  strong  testimony  that  he  bore  of  the  truth  of  the  gospel  as  re- 
vealed through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  felt  thankful  that  in 
my  heart  I  could  say  "Amen"  to  that  testimony. 

THE.  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  NOT  RECOGNIZED  BY  THE  WORLD  AS 
CHRISTIANS. 

Ever  since  I  can  remember,  almost,  I  have  had  a  testimony  of 
the  truth  of  that  which  the  world  calls  "Mormonism."  I  know  it 
is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  I  know  that  men  upon  the  earth 
hold  the  power  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  which  enables  them  to  per- 
form the  ordinances  that  are  given  for  the  salvation  of  men.  How 
thankful  we  ought  to  be  that  the  Lord  has  given  us  this  knowledge 
concerning  his  will  and  what  he  wishes  us  to  do.  We  have  not  been 
recognized  by  the  world  as  being  a  Christian  people ;  but  we  do  claim 
that  if  there  be  any  people  upon  the  earth  who  believe  in  Jesus  Christ 
as  the  Savior  of  the  world,  it  is  the  Latter-day  Saints.  How  strange 
it  is,  when  men  have  read  our  articles  of  faith,  that  they  can  believe 
that  the  "Mormons"  are  not  Christians !  When  I  say  "Christians"  I 
mean  those  who  believe  in  Jesus  Christ. 

THE  SAINTS  BELIEVE  SINCERELY  IN  JESUS  CHRIST  AND  TRY  TO  OBEY 
THE  COMMANDMENTS  OF  GOD. 

We  know  that  he  is  the  Son  of  God ;  we  believe  in  him  as  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world  and  as  the  Savior  of  mankind.  That  we  are 
not  Christians  is  held  by  the  world.  In  their  so-called  Christian  con- 
ventions, they  do  not  wish  to  hear  anything  from  us.  Notwithstand- 
ing the  fact  that  they  did  admit  heathens,  or  men  not  believing  in 
God,  to  come  and  give  their  religious  beliefs  to  the  Convention  of 
Religions,  yet  they  were  not  willing  that  we  should  explain  our  be- 
lief. However,  we  are  trying  to  reach  the  hearts  of  the  people.  Our 
missionaries  go  out  by  the  hundreds  and  thousands  into  the  world. 
They  seek  to  reach  the  people;  they  go  from  door  to  door,  patiently 
enduring  the  mocking  remarks- that  are  made  concerning  them;  and  yet 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


17 


they  are  always  willing  to  explain  what  the  Lord  has  given  them,  and 
to  declare  the  message  which  they  have  for  all  mankind. 

We,  brethren  and  sisters,  have  received  the  gospel,  and  all  of 
us  ought  to  feel  that  we  owe  the  duty  to  our  heavenly  Father  and 
to  our  fellow  men  to  make  known  unto  them  what  the  Lord  .has 
shown  us.  We  must  be  careful  to  so  live  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
is  alive  within  us.  We  must  try  to  live  according  to  the  command- 
ments that  our  heavenly  Father  has  given  us.  We  know  that  they 
are  for  the  betterment  of  men. ' 

I  was  pleased  to  read  the  remarks  of  Senator  Ashurst  and  others 
in  the  Senate  of  the  United  States.  I  know  that  what  they  said  con- 
cerning this  people  is  true.  They  knew  the  truth  of  these  things,  and 
they  were  brave  enough,  in  spite  of  the  opposition  of  the  world,  to 
speak  as  they  did  regarding  the  Latter-day  Saints.  There  are  many 
others  who  believe  the  same,  but  are  afraid  to  bear  their  testimony 
of  what  they  know.  I  pity  such ;  but  I  honor  those  who  are  brave 
enough  to  express  what  they  know  to  be  true  concerning  a  people, 
even  if  that  people  should  be  like  the  people  of  old  that  Paul  tells 
us  "were  everywhere  spoken  against."  If  they  -will  search  and  in- 
vestigate, they  will  find  that  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  a  people,  try 
to  live  their  religion,  and  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  that 
they  are  prayerful  and  try  to  seek  the  Lord  early  and  late  to  obtain 
power  and  strength  from  him  to  carry  out  that  which  they  know  to 
be  right. 

THE  SAINTS  ENJOTNED  TO  ATTEND  SACRAMENTAL  MEETINGS. 

During  the  past  year  we  have  had  much  to  be  grateful  for.  We 
are  especially  thankful  to  know  that  the  people  are  living  their  religion 
and  are  showing  in  their  works  that  they  are  in  earnest.  If  I  should 
find  any  fault  with  our  people,  it  is  this,  that  they  should  be  more  at- 
tentive to  quorum  meetings  of  the  Priesthood  and  to  sacrament 
meetings.  In  some  places  there  can  be  but  little  fault  found ;  while  in 
others,  there  seems  to  be  some  carelessness  about  attending  our  meet- 
ings. Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  cannot  develop  in  godliness 
without  going  to  the  meetings.  We  should  be  present  to  hear  the 
servants  of  God  and  to  partake  of  the  Sacrament  of  the  Lord,  and 
renew  our  covenants  with  him,  showing  that  we  are  willing  to  take 
upon  us  his  name  and  keep  his  commandments.  It  gives  us  strength 
to  do  so ;  but  by  staying  away  from  sacrament  meetings,  we  gradually 
grow  careless,  and  we  think  that  we  cannot  be  edified  by  attending 
them.  Do  not  go  to  meeting  just  because  a  good  speaker  is  going  to 
talk,  but  go  to  the  meetings  as  the  Lord  has  commanded  that  on 
the  Sabbath  day  we  should  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  our  ob- 
lations to  the  Almighty.  Do  not  let  us  be  lacking  in  this  nor  in  other 
duties. 

THE  LORD  BLESSES  THOSE  WHO  PAY  AN  HONEST  TITHING. 

You  heard  how  much  had  been  expended  last  year  for  different 
things  to  uphold  the  work  of  the  Church.  This  shows  that  the  Saints 


18 


GENER.  I L  CON  EE  REN  CE. 


have  attended  to  the  duty  of  paying  their  tithing.  There  are  those, 
however,  who  ought  to  be  encouraged  to  obey  that  law  more  strictly 
than  they  do.  We  honor  those  who  are  honest  with  the  Lord,  who  pay 
their  tithing  which  they  owe  unto  him.  Those  who  do  so  will  feel 
blessed.  They  are  not  the  ones  who  complain  of  how  the  tithing  is 
spent,  but  they  feel  blessed  in  paying  a  tenth  as  the  tithing  of  their 
income,  knowing  that  the  Lord  sees  what  they  are  doing,  and  knows 
their  hearts,  and  they  will  receive  their  reward  for  so  doing.  We 
would  like  to  encourage  all  to  obey  this  law,  whether  they  owe  a  few 
cents  or  many  dollars.  They  should  remember  the  law  of  tithing  and 
remember  that  the  Lord  blesses  those  who  pay  an  honest  tithing,  be  it 
little  or  much. 

WARNING  AGAINST  FOLLOWING  FALSE  TEACHERS. 

There  are  some  who  think  they  are  in  advance  of  the  rest  of  the 
people,  and  they  are  trying  to  strike  out  in  certain  different  courses. 
I  would  like  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints :  Let  no  one  deceive  you, 
let  no  one  draw  you  away  from  the  pale  of  the  Church ;  for  within 
it  there  are  the  servants  of  the  Lord  who  have  been  authorized  to  ad  - 
minister unto  you  and  to  perform  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  You 
will  not  find  that  authority  outside  of  the  Church.  If  one  pretends 
that  he  is  the  one  "great  and  mighty,"  or  that  he  has  power  to  start 
a  new  church  to  improve  on  this,  examine  carefully  before  you  take  a 
step  away  from  the  Church.  You  will  not  be  happy  if  you  follow  such 
men.  True  happiness  will  come  to  you  if  you  keep 'the  covenants  which 
you  have  made  with  the  Lord.  The  covenants  that  we  have  made,  at  the 
time  we  were  baptized,  in  holy  places,  are  all  for  our  good  to  help  us 
to  come  nearer  to  the  Lord  and  to  know  his  will.  As  we  have  made 
covenants  to  do  his  will,  let  us  not  forget  what  we  have  promised  to 
do.  There  is  a  joy  in  knowing  that  we  are  fulfilling  our  duty,  and  there 
is  sorrow  in  our  hearts  when  we  feel  that  we  are  not  doing  it.  Of 
course,  by  continuing  in  negligence,  our  conscience  may  not  smite  us 
so  much  as  at  first ;  but  let  us  all  listen  to  that  monitor  which  the 
Lord  has  given  us;  listen  to  the  whisperings  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and 
try  to -so  live  that  we  may  feel,  by  the  Spirit  of  God  that  we  are 
acceptable  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord. 

THOUGHTS  ON  THE  FIRST  VISION  AND  WHAT  FOLLOWED. 

There  has  been  some  reference  here  today  to  the  first  vision  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  which  we  look  upon  as  the  dawn  of  this  last  dis- 
pensation, the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times.  It}  was  indeed  the 
bee  ginning,  the  very  initiating  of  this  work ;  and  the  Lord  chose  an 
instrument,  not  learned  and  educated,  but  a  man  who  was  willino-  to 
do  that  which  he  should  be  commanded  to  do.  He  had  full  faith  in 
the  Lord  and  was  ever  ready  to  offer  himself  and  his  time  for  the  up- 
building of  this  work.  We  just  sang  a  beautiful  hymn  about  him. 
He  did  accomplish  a  great  work  during  the  short  time  that  was  given 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  II.  LUND.  19 


him  to  live,  after  the  Church  was  organized  and  those  years  preceding 
the  organization  of  the  Church.  How  much  we  rejoice  to  read  what 
he  did !  He  was  poor,  he  had  to  work  for  his  living,  and  yet  the  great 
task  of  translating  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  given  unto  him.  Some 
have  thought:  "Well  now,  the  Lord  owns  everything;  why  did  he  not 
bestow  enough  upon  the  Prophet  so  that  he  could  do  his  work  more 
easily?"  Not  so;  the  Lord  gave  him  a  task  to  do  and  he  gave  him  his 
Spirit  also  that  he  might  have  strength  to  do  it.  He  raised  up  friends 
to  the  Prophet  who  were  willing  to  help,  even  with  their  temporal 
means — such  a  man  as  Martin  Harris,  such  men  as  David  Whitmer 
and  Oliver  Cowdery.  They  came  to  his  help  before  the  Church  was 
organized.  Full  of  faith,  they  were  willing  to  assist  him,  and  with 
this  help,  the  Prophet  was  enabled  to  translate  those  ancient  writings 
and  to  publish  the  Book  of  Mormon  unto  the  world.  Many  have 
studied  that  book  and  have  tried  to  find  some  fault  with  it.  Now,  in 
reading  it,  we  see  that  it  covers  a  period  of  about  a  thousand  years, 
relating  to  the  Lamanites  and  Nephites,  and  a  much  longer  time 
to  those  who  left  the  Tower  of  Babel,  the  people  of  Jared  and  his 
br<  -her.  Yet  by  the  search  of  critics  they  have  not  been  able  to  find 
anj  anachronism  or  wrong  time  in  its  chronology.  The  whole  book 
is  a  unit,  although  it  was  written  by  a  number  of  writers.  They  were 
inspired  by  the  Lord,  as  were  those  who  wrote  the  holy  Scriptures, 
called  the  Bible.  The  holy  Scriptures  called  the  Book  of  Mormon 
were  written  by  different  men,  prophets  of  the  Lord,  and  they  were  all 
true  men.  The  book  is  a  unit  as  to  doctrine  and  as  to  the  spirit  that 
goes  through  it. 

I  have  referred  to  the  men  who  helped  the  Prophet  Joseph. 
They  bore  a  strong  testimony  concerning  the  truth  of  that  book.  They 
knew  they  had  seen  the  engravings  that  were  on  the  plates.  They 
knew  that  they  were  translated  correctly,  because  a  voice  from  heaven 
had  so  declared,  and  an  angel  from  heaven  had  shown  these  things  unto 
them.  After  that  these  men  could  not  say  that  Joseph  Smith  had  de- 
ceived them.  They  knew  for  themselves  that  the  testimony  which  now 
appears  in  the  front  of  the  book  was  true.  Notwithstanding  the  fact 
that  these  men  became  careless,  and  some  fell  into  transgression  and 
were  cut  off  from  the  Church,  yet  they  continued  to  bear  a  truthful 
testimony  of  what  they  had  written  in  that  book.  Two  of  them  came 
back  into  the  Church. 

One  of  them,  David  Whitmer,  remained  outside  of  the  Church 
until  his  death ;  but  hundreds  of  visitors  came  to  him,  knowing  that 
he  was  not  what  they  called  a  "Mormon ;"  that  is,  that  he  did  not 
belong  to* the  Church,  and  they  thought  they  would  get  what  they  de- 
sired as  the  truth  from  him  ;  but  he  was  always  ready  to  bear  the  testi- 
mony that  he  saw  the  plates,  and  even  on  his  death  bed  he  bore  that 
testimony. 

Martin  Harris,  we  know,  came  here  and  from  this  stand  has 
borne  his  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  translation  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  from  ancient  plates. 

Oliver  Cowdery  came  to  the  Church  when  it  was  at  its  lowest 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ebb,  I  may  say,  when  it  looked  as  if  the  Church  was  not  able  to  con- 
tinue as  a  Church ;  for  the  people  had  been  driven  into  the  wilderness, 
and  several  divisions  had  taken  place  and  members  had  been  scat- 
tered ;  but  he  came  to  the  little  branch  at  Council  Bluffs  and  asked 
simply  that  he  might  become  a  member  of  the  Church.  He  did  not 
join  the  Church  to  become  a  leading  member  in  it  or  to  hold  a  big 
office.  He  came  because  he  did  not  dare  to  die  outside  of  the  pale 
of  the  Church,  and  he  did  not  live  many  months  afterward.  But  he 
bore  the  testimony  to  that  congregation  that  the  gospel  is  true,  that 
he  had  seen  angels,  that  Joseph  and  he  had  been  ordained  to  the 
Priesthood,  both  the  Aaronic  and  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  This 
testimony  he  bore  to  them  and  he  asked  forgiveness  for  the  past  and, 
like  any  other  member  who  had  been  excommunicated,  he  asked,  pen- 
itently that  he  might  come  into  the  Church  and  become  a  member  with 
the  rest  of  them. 

While,  as  it  has  been  said,  three  of  the  witnesses  left  the  Church, 
yet  they  always  bore  that  faithful  testimony  that  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon was  true.  They  had  helped  in  the  translation  and  in  the  publish- 
ing of  the  book,  and  it  is  before  the  world.  Oh,  how  many  glorious 
truths  it  contains !  It  is  indeed  an  inspired  work,  and  what  the  Prophet 
Joseph  received  and  gave  unto  us  we  all  bear  the  testimony  is 
true;  and  while  some  people  may  have  thought  they  were  new  doc- 
trines, because  they  were  not  understood  by  the  world,  we  have 
found  them  to  be  true  principles,  and  since  that  time  we  have  proved 
them  to  be  such. 

j 

the  second  vision  and  vicarious  work  for  the  dead. 

At  the  second  vision  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  received,  when 
the  angel  Moroni  came  to  him  and  told  him  about  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
<:r  rather  the  plates  that  were  concealed  in  the  Hill  Cumorah,  he  also 
told  him  things  that  Joseph,  perhaps,  could  not  fully  understand;  and. 
in  crder,  tbr.t  the  young  man  might  not  forget  what  he  was  told,  the 
angel  repeated  thtm  three  times,  spending  the  whole  night  with  him. 
Among  the  things  that  were  revealed  to  him  was  the  principle  of 
vicarious  work  for  the  dead,  and  the  principle  of  the  gathering  of  the 
people,  principles  of  our  Church  that  are  unique  to  it.  These  were 
given  by  the  angel  Moroni.  He  also  read  from  the  book  of  Malachi 
about  the  hearts  of  children  being  turned  to  their  fathers,  and  the 
fathers'  hearts  to  the  children.  He  read  to  him  the  eleventh  chapter 
of  Isaiah,  which  refers  to  the  gathering;  and  other  principles  he  ex- 
plained to  the  young  man.  Today  we  have  heard  read  how  much  has 
been  given  for  temples  and  for  temple  buildings,  and  this  shows  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  believe  in  the  principle  revealed  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  as  early  as  1823.  And  just  before  his  death,  how  interested 
he  was  m  this  work!  He  saw  the  great  necessity  that  there  was  for 
the  Saints  to  turn  their  hearts  to  the  fathers,  so  as  to  avoid  the  curse 
that  otherwise  would  come  upon  the  earth.  We  have  felt  this  todav 
We  have  gone  into  the  temples,  we  have  labored  for  our  dead  and 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


21 


we  have  had  the  witness  in  our  souls  that  the  Lord  accepted  of  the 
work.  Many  people  have  told  me  what  they  have  heard  and  seen  in 
the  temples.  Names  have  been  given  to  them  of  persons  they  had 
forgotten,  who  wanted  their  work  done.  How  interested  the  people 
have  been  in  searching  for  their  genealogies !  We  must  thank  the 
genealogists  of  the  world  also,  because  they  have  come  to  our  help. 
They  have  spent  a  great  deal  of  money  in  publishing  genealogies,  es- 
pecially here  in  the  United  States ;  also  in  England.  They  have  begun 
the  same  work  in  other  countries,  too.  The  spirit  is  upon  them ;  their 
hearts  are  turning  to  their  fathers.  I  know  they  do  not  believe  in  the 
necessity  of  doing  work  for  them,  but  we  believe  that  it  is  a  necessity ; 
and  it  is  a  joy  and  blessing  to  us  to  do  this. 

THE  RESURRECTION  OF  JESUS  CHRIST. 

Today  we  celebrate  the  resurrection  of  our  Savior.  This  is  in- 
deed one  of  the  most  hope-inspiring  events  that  ever  took  place.  Men 
have  believed  in  life  after  death,  but  the  real  truth  that  there  is  such 
a  thing  as  a  resurrection  was  given  by  our  Savior.  .  The  testimony 
has  come  to  us  that  many  saw  him  after  he  was  resurrected.  Some 
have  argued  that  the  resurrection  is  not  possible ;  that  we  have  never 
seen  a  person  who  has  come  back  to  us  from  another  world,  nor  have 
we  seen  any  who  has  seen  such  a  person,  and  they  argue  that,  there- 
fore, it  cannot  be  possible  that  anybody  was  ever  resurrected. 

Now,  if  we  are  to  judge  only  by  what  we  have  experienced  our- 
selves, I  fear  our  knowing  would  be  very  small.  We  take  the  sayings 
of  men,  the  writings  of  men  and  we  believe  what  they  have  said  and 
written.  By  this  means  we  have  extended  our  field  of  knowledge.  It 
would  be  a  very  narrow  conception  to  argue  that  thingsr  that  we  have 
not  seen  cannot  be  true.  We  have  the  testimony  of  twelve  men  who 
saw  the  Savior  after  his  resurrection.  We  have  the  testimony  that 
five  hundred  men  beheld  him  at  one  time.  Ten  times  he  was  seen 
after  his  resurrection.  His  apostles  and  disciples  felt  very  down- 
hearted when  they  saw  that  he  suffered  death  on  the  cross ;  but  they 
rejoiced  when  the  testimony  came  to  them  that  he  was  risen,  and  es- 
pecially when  they  saw  him,  when  they  could  feel  of  him  and  listen 
to  his  words.  These  men  went  out  into  the  world  preaching  Christ 
and  him  crucified.  They  were  not  afraid  to  bear  that  testimony  to 
the  world.  You  might  say  that  twelve  men  could  conspire  to  tell  a 
lie,  but  we  have  never  heard  of  a  number  of  men  doing  so,  when  they 
were  promised  only  martyrdom  and  no  honor  among  the  people,  also 
that  they  should  be  brought  up  before  judges,  and  be  jailed  and 
scourged  for  their  testimonies — you  have  never  heard  of  men  con- 
spiring together  with  such  a  future  before  them,  if  that  which  they 
declared  was  not  true.  But  they  knew  it  was  true.  Peter,  though  he 
did  falter  once  and  denied  the  Savior,  was  still  a  brave  man.  He 
never  faltered  after  Jesus  had  given  him  the  mission  to  look  after  the 
Saints,  to  feed  his  lambs  and  sheep.  More  than  thirty  years  he  con- 
tinued to  labor  and  all  the  time  knowing  that  Jesus  had  told  him  how 


11 


GEN II RAL  CO Nl  ERE N CE . 


he  should  die;  that  he  would  have  to  suffer  martyrdom.  He  did  not 
say  it  in  those  words,  but  he  told  him  that  another  should  gird  him 
and. carry  him  whither  he  would  not.  He  alluded  to  the  death  which 
Peter  would  suffer.  When  it  came  to  the  real  point,  Peter  went  gladly, 
only  he  said  at  the  very  last  moment,  according  to  the  legend,  that  he 
was  not  worthy  to  die  as  the  Savior  had  died  on  the  cross,  and  he  asked 
that  he  might  be  crucified  with  his  head  down.  Of  course,  this  is  a 
legendary  story  that  has  come  to  us,  but  it  shows  us  that  he  suffered 
death;  and  his  life  was  given  as  a  witness  of  the  truth  that  he  had 
proclaimed  all  the  way  through. 

Paul  had  been  a  persecutor  of  the  Saints,  but  was  converted  by 
the  vision  of  the  Savior  on  the  way  to  Damascus ;  he  knew  then  that 
Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the  man  who  had  been  crucified,  was  indeed  the 
Son  of  God,  and  he  bravely  continued  his  labors  until  at  last  he  too 
gave  his  life  in  defense  of  the  truth.  These  men  saw  the  Savior. 
Thomas,  the  doubter,  was  not  willing  to  take  the  testimony  of  his 
brethren,  the  apostles;  but  Jesus  appeared  where  he  was  and  told 
him  to  feel  of  the  wounds.  Then  Thomas  declared  that  he  was  the 
Lord.  He  was  willing  then  to  believe.  Jesus  gave  him  a  gentle  re- 
buke by  saying:  "Blessed  are  those  who  believe,  though  they  have 
not  seen." 

We  believe  many  things  that  we  have  not  seen,  many  things  that 
have  come  to  us  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  they  have  been  made  as 
plain  to  us  as  knowledge  obtained  by  our  five  senses  could  be.  We 
have  received,  by  the  Spirit  witnessing  to  our  spirit,  the  truth  of  these 
heavenly  things  that  have  been  given  to  us. 

THE  SAINTS  WARNED  TO  BE  FAITHFUL  TO  THE  END. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  continue  to  be  faithful,  whatever  it 
shall  cost.  Remember  the  long  eternity  before  us,  and  that  by  being 
faithful  in  keeping  the  Lord's  commandments  and  keeping  our  cov^ 
enants,  the  celestial  glory  will  be  obtainable  by  us.  Let  us  not 
forfeit  the  great  opportunity  the  Lord  has  given  us,  but  remember 
that  he  sees  us ;  we  walk  as  in  his  sight,  and  he  knows  us.  We  can- 
not deceive  him.  Let  us  walk  honestly  and  uprightly  before  him  and 
then,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  that  the  great  object  for  which  we 
are  striving  shall  be  obtained  by  us— an  entrance  into  the  celestial 
kingdom  and  a  return  to  our  heavenly  Father  will  be  our  lot  God 
bless  you  all.  Amen. 

Miss  Louise  Watson,  Miss  Edna  Gothberg,  and  Lola  Edwards 
sang  the  trio,  "Lift  Thine  Eyes,"  (Mendelssohn.) 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  is  so  little  time  left  that  we  will  not  impose  on  anyone  of  our 
speakers  by  asking  him  to  try  to  concentrate  his  thoughts  and  con- 
dense his  remarks  to  occupy  the  few  minutes  that  remain  Perhaps 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT.  23 

I  can  overrun  the  time  myself  without  creating  much  criticism,  so  I 
will  take  the  time  and  a  few  minutes  beyond. 

THE  "ERA"  AND  "THE  VISION"  BY  EVAN  STEPHENS  ENDORSED. 

I  hold  in  my  hand  the  last  issue  of  the  Improvement  Era.  I  read  it, 
from  cover  to  cover,  before  it  was  printed,  when  it  was  in  proof  sheet 
form.  I  am  very  grateful  to  the  men  and  women  who  have  written  for 
this  number,  every  article  of  which  refers  to  the  vision  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph.  The  words  of  the  sacred  historical  cantata  entitled 
"The  Vision,"  written  by  Professor  Evan  Stephens,  which  will  be  sung 
here  tomorrow  night  is  also  recorded  in  this  number.  I  have  requested 
tihe  Deseret  News  to  print  ten  thousand  extra  copies  of  this  issue 
of  the  Era.  I  think  that  every  person  who  believes  in  that  wonderful 
vision  ought  to  get  this  number  of  the  Era. 

STATISTICAL  ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

Since  our  last  General  Conference  the  following  changes  have 
occurred  in  stakes,  wards  and  missions. 

NEW  MISSIONS. 

Danish  mission,  Carl  E.  Peterson,  president. 
Norwegian  mission,  Andrew  S.  Schow,  president. 
Chihuahua  mission,  Joseph  C.  Bentley,  president. 

NEW  WARDS. 

Lost  River  ward,  Lost  River  stake;  Colonia  Chuichupa  ward,  Juarez 
stake;  Rigby  Second  ward,  Rigby  stake;  Lehi  Fifth  ward,  Alpine  stake; 
Starrh's  Ferry  ward,  Burley  stake;  Jackson  ward,  Burley  stake;  Stockton 
ward,  Tooele  stake;  Mountain  Home  branch,  Woodruff  stake;  Thatcher 
West  ward,  St.  Joseph  stake;  Clay's  Springs  branch,  Snowflake  stake;  West 
Tintic  branch,  Tintic  stake;  Nibley  ward,  Hyrum  stake. 

NEW   PRESIDENTS  OF  STAKES. 

Parowan  stake,  Henry  W.  Lunt,  president;  succeeded  Wilford  Day. 
Utah  stake,  Thomas  N.  Taylor,  president;  succeeded  Joseph  B.  Keeler. 
Ensign   stake,   John   M.    Knight,   president;    succeeded   Richard  W. 
Young. 

NEW    STAKE  CLERKS. 

St.  Johns  stake,  Dewey  Farr;  succeeded  Levi  S.  Udall. 
Granite  stake,  Milton  H.  Ross;  succeeded  Wm.  McEwan. 

STAKE  PRESIDENT  DIED. 

Ensign  stake,  Richard  W.  Young. 

BISHOPS  DIED. 

Timpanogos  ward,  Utah  stake,  Otto  J.  Poulson. 

Vineyard  ward,  Utah  stake,  William  Varley. 

Sugarville  ward,  Deseret  stake,  Norman  Stillwell  Anderson. 

IN  MEMORY  OF  RICFFARD  W.  YOUNG. 

As  announced,  Richard  W.  Young,  President  of  the  Ensign  stake, 
and  a  Brigadier  General  in  the  United  States  army,  has  passed  away, 
by  death,  since  the  last  conference.    He  spoke  at  the  overflow  meeting 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  the  Assembly  Hall,  on  the  afternoon  of  October  5,  1919,  and  I  desire 
to  read  a  few  words  from  that  address: 

I  was  just  looking  over  that  wonderful  poem,  "The  Seer,"  written  by 
President  John  Taylor,  that  remarkable,  splendid  father  of  President  Frank 
Y.  Taylor  who  is  here  today.  I  find  written  there,  concerning  the  Prophet 
(oseph,  that 

"He  shared  their  joys,  their  sorrows  too, 
He  loved  the  Saints,  he  loved  Nauvoo." 

I  have  been  away  from  this  people  long  enough  to  develop  a  strong  love 
for  the  Saints  of  God;  the  good  people,  who  make  up  the  congregations  of 
the  Church  are  the  dearest  people  in  all  the  world  to  you  and  me.  There 
is  no  experience  that  touches  my  heart  more  deeply  than  the  sight  of  the 
face  of  a  good  old  brother  or  sister  whom  I  have  known,  and  known  to  be 
faithful  for  many  years.  I  share  their  joys  and  their  sorrows  too.  I  deeply 
love  the  Saints  and  their  asscoiation,  and  am  proud  of  being  a  member 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  was  thinking  during  the  noon  hour  how  much  reason  we  all  have 
to  be  proud  of  the  record  of  the  Church.  When  you  stop  to  think  about  it, 
you  must  conclude  that  this  Church  has  been  right  throughout  its  whole 
history  upon  all  of  the  important  moral  questions  that  have  affected  our 
welfare.  In  the  nature  of  things  there  is  not  within  the  United  States  a 
people  more  patriotic  than  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  know  of  no  sect  that 
assumes  the  position  that  the  constitution  of  the  United  States  was  written 
as  it  were  by  the  very  finger  of  God.  Surely  that  belief  is  an  inspiration  to 
the  highest  patriotism.  You  remember  readng  in  the  history  of  the  Church 
that  this  people  were  accused  in  Missouri  of  being  opposed  to  slavery.  In 
that  slave-holding  state  such  an  attitude  became  one  of  the  reasons  of  our 
persecution  and  drivings.  You  remember  that  the  first  message  that  flashed 
across  the  completed  telegraph  line  from  here  to  the  Atlantic  ocean  was  a 
message  of  congratulation  from  Brigham  Young  to  Abraham  Lincoln  that 
the  Union  was  preserved  or  was  in  the  way  of  preservation. 

President  Grant  spoke  this  morning  of  the  attitude  of  the  Navajo  In- 
dians toward  the  "Mormons."  They  had  confidence  in  the  "Mormon"  people 
because  the  "Mormon"  people  had  never  abused  their  confidence.  Books 
have  been  written,  one  book  that  I  remember  in  particular,  called  "A  Cen- 
tury of  Dishonor,"  an  indictment  covering  hundreds  of  pages  against  the 
American  people  for  treatment  of  the  American  Indians.  But  no  in- 
dictment had  ever  been  framed,  or  would  be  formulated  against  the  "Mor- 
mon' 'people  for  their  attitude  or  treatment  of  the  aborigines  of  this  con- 
tinent. We  have  always  treated  them  fairly  and  squarely,  as  of  course  they 
should  have  been  treated. 

We  have  stood  square  upon  women's  suffrage.  We  were  among  the 
very  first — the  second,  as  I  now  recall  it — of  the  states  to  give  what  should 
have  been  given  years  before,  the  right  .of  equal  suffrage  to  the  women, 
now  recognized  not  only  in  this  country  but  throughout  the  world  as  a  long 
delayed  measure  of  justice. 

We  have  stood  fairly  and  squarely  upon  the  prohibition  question 
throughout  the  Church. 

IN  MEMORY  OF  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE. 

Since  our  last  conference,  one  of  our  greatest  educators  has 
passed  away,  Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe.  One  of  the  splendid  articles  in 
this  April  number  of  the  Improvement  Era  was  from  the  pen  of  our  de- 
parted brother,  and  I  will  read  the  last  paragraph  or  two : 

But  while  it  is  well  it  is  not  enough.  Steadily  to  maintain  the  narrow 
way  throughout  the  generations,  there  must  needs  be  communion  with  the 
director  of  all.   Where  there  is  no  revelation,  the  people  perish;  they  wander 


PR  IIS  I  DENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


25 


from  paths  cf  rectitude;  they  deny  even  that  which  has  given  them  life. 
This,  then,  is  the  sum  of  all:  Not  alone  because  the  doctrines  revealed 
through  Joseph  the  Prophet  spurs  the  energies  of  man  to  work,  and  to  know, 
and  to  do;  nor  yet  alone  because  it  is  based  on  the  law  of  association,  will 
it  thrive  and  prosper;  but  because  there  is  added  hereto  the  still  more  basic 
principle  of  faith  in  God  and  his  power  to  guide  man  by  continued  revela- 
tion— as  times  and  seasons  and  countries  shall  require — will  ultimate 
triumph  be  achieved.  The  far-reaching  extent  of  the  work  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  cannot  be  declared;  the  monument  he  has  erected  to  his  mem- 
ory cannot  be  measured.  But  this  much  is  certain:  It  is  as  natural  as  that 
the  rising  sun  shall  appear  in  the  east  to  spread  its  glory  graduallv  over 
the  world,  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  should 
prosper  and  progress  to  come  ultimately  to  inherit  the  earth. 

THEY  GAVE  THEIR  LIVES  FOR  SERVICE  TO  THE  PEOPLE. 

Richard  W.  Young  offered  his  life  twice,  by  volunteering  in  the 
service  of  his  country,  going  once  to  the  Philippine  Islands,  and  once  to 
France.  Osborne  Widtsoe  gave  his  life  to  the  service  of  the  Church  and 
for  the  uplift,  educationally,  of  the  people.  The  lives  of  these  two 
noble  men  stand  as  a  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this  work.  No  more 
upright  clean  men  ever  drew  the  breath  of  life.  We  thank  God  for 
the  record  that  they  have  left  and  pray  God  to  bless  and  comfort  their 
families  and  to  assist  them  to  walk  in  that  straight  and  narrow  path 
in  which  their  fathers  walked.  May  God's  comforting  influence  be 
and  abide  with  them  and  with  all  those  who  have  been  called  upon  to 
mourn,  since  we  were  last  here,  is  my  prayer  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  anthem,  "Oh,  Happy  is  the  Man,"  by  Prof.  J.  J.  McClellan, 
words  by  Parley  P.  Pratt,  was  sung  by  the  choir. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  L.  Herrick,  former 
President  of  the  Western  States  Mission. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  called  the  congregation 
to  order  at  2  o'clock.  The  house  was  filled  to  capacity.  Overflow 
meetings  were  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  the  Bureau  of  In- 
formation. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire 
is  burning." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  German  E.  Ellsworth,  former 
President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission. 

The  choir  sang,  "Hallelujah  to  the  Father  (Beethoven's  "Mount 
of  Olives"). 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

I  am  very  thankful  for  this  privilege.  Just  to  look  at  this  congrega- 
tion is  a  pleasure  and  a  treat.  To  be  called  upon  to  speak — I  was 
going  to  say — is  a  task,  and  it  really  is,  for  I  do  not  feel  prepared  to 
deliver  a  discourse  upon  any  particular  topic  or  subject.  But  I  feel 
thankful  that  I  am  able  to  be  here,  and  to  lift  up  my  voice  once  more 
in  testimony  of  the  truth.  I  bear  testimony  that  what  we  heard  this 
morning,  that  which  was  delivered  from  this  stand,  was  true,  divinely 
revealed  and  divinely  spoken.  I  felt  like  shouting  and  singing,  "Hal- 
lelujah, Praise  to  God,"  when  President  Grant  closed  his  remarks:  for 
I  felt  that  he  was  inspired  of  God  to  give  to  us  words  in  due  season : 
and  I  believe  the  whole  congregation,  thii  immense  audience, 
was  thrilled  with  the  same  feeling  and  spirit.  I  enjoy  preaching  of 
that  kind.  I  do  enjoy  a  well  said  discourse,  prepared  already  in  i 
thought  and  in  language  to  deliver  to  a  public  assembly,  but  I  must 
say  that  I  do  much  more  enjoy  addresses  that  are  delivered  by  the 
power  of  God,  accompanied  by  that  splendid  spirit  which  came  to  us 
all  when  we  first  embraced  the  gospel.  When  we  first  heard  the 
glad  tidings  of  salvation  brought  to  earth  in  the  latter  days  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  associates,  our  whole  souls  thrilled 
with  joy,  with  thanksgiving  and  praise  to  the  Lord:  and  no  matter 
how  often  we  heard  the  same  simple  truths  declared,  we  enjoyed  the 
hearing  of  them,  and  the  same  spirit  that  rested  upon  the  speakers 
rested  upon  the  hearers,  so  we  rejoiced  together.  I  felt  that  this  morn- 
ing, as  I  have  many  times  during  the  conferences  that  we  have  held 
in  years  that  are  past,  and  I  was  impressed  with  the  feeling  that  the 
promise  made  by  the  Almighty  in  regard  to  the  continuance  of  his 
work,  was  verily  true,  and  will  be  fulfilled  to  the  uttermost,  no  mat- 
ter what  may  occur,  no  matter  what  changes  may  come,  either  through 
the  martyrdom  of  our  prophet  or  the  decease  of  our  leaders,  by  what 
we  call  "natural  means."  No  matter  what  the  opposition  may  be  in 
the  world,  though  thrones  may  totter,  empires  fall,  and  the  systems 
of  men  may  be  broken  up  and  perish,  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  our 
God  shall  continue  and  abide  and  increase. 

THE  CHURCH  OF  CHRIST  SHALL  GROW  AND  PREVAIL. 

This  great  audience,  this  afternoon,  is  evidence  of  the  truth  of 
the  prediction  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  addressing  his  father  by 
revelation,  which  was  read  to  us  this  morning.  This  work  will  abide. 
It  was  so  destined  by  the  Almighty,  when  he  revealed  it.  When  he 
appeared  with  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer,  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  he  ordained  and  declared  that  this  organization  should 
remain  on  the  earth,  and  should  not  be  broken  to  pieces,  nor  given  to 
any  people  except  to  the  Saints  of  the  Most  High,  and  they  should 
continue  the  work  and  possess  the  Kingdom  and  the  greatness  of  the 
Kingdom  until  it  should  spread  forth  under  the  whole  heavens. 

I  know  that  this  is  true,  and  I  felt  the  influence  and  spirit  of  it 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  //'.  PENROSE. 


27 


this  morning",  when  I  looked  upon  the  great  congregation  here,  and 
realized  that  another  large  audience  of  Saints  was  gathered  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  and  that  there  was  a  great  number  of  inspired  men, 
ready  at  the  word,  when  they  receive  it  from  the  head,  to  go  forth 
to  the  nations,  or  to  labor  at  home,  to  do  anything  and  everything 
required  of  them  under  the  power  and  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  which  they  hold,  associated  with  their  offices  and  callings  in 
the  holy  Priesthood. 

It  is  a  joy  to  my  heart  to  realize  and  know  this,  that  the  work  shall 
not  be  broken  up,  shall  not  be  given  to  another  people,  but  this  Church 
and  Kingdom — for  the  terms  are  used  almost  synonymously — shall 
continue  and  stand  forth  and  overcome  every  opposition  of  every  kind 
that  may  come  against  it.  I  do  not  say  this  in  the  spirit  of  defiance 
against  the  powers  of  darkness,  either  in  the  flesh  or  out  of  the  flesh, 
but  I  say  it  in  humility,  and  with  full  confidence  that  the  word  of 
God  shall  be  fulfilled,  and  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  shall  continue  and  abide,  and  the  gdspel  it  brings  shall  be 
preached  to  the  living  and  to  the  dead,  until  all  of  the  race  of  Adam, 
who  are  able  to  receive  and  hear,  shall  hear  the  word  and  have  the 
free  opportunity  and  liberty,  if  they  will,  to  obey  it,  to  repent  of  their 
sins,  and  to  come  unto  God  the  Eternal  Father,  be  obedient  to  him, 
and  bow  the  knee  to  King  Tmmanuel,  Jesus  the  Christ. 

THE  VISION  OF  JOSEPH. 

We  have  reminders,  frequently  now,  of  the  fact  that  about  a  cen- 
tury has  elapsed  since  the  time  when  the  Prophet  Joseph,  as  a  boy, 
went  into  a  grove  near  his  father's  residence — where  many  of  us 
have  been,  and  have  rejoiced  in  the  spirit  we  found  there — and  there 
for  the  first  time  in  vocal  prayer — I  presume  he  had  prayed  before, 
in  a  fashion — but  in  vocal  prayer,  from  the  heart,  with  faith,  he  called 
upon  the  Lord  that  he  might  learn  which  was  the  true  religion.  As 
we  have  heard  today,  and  have  heard  many  times  before,  the  Father 
and  the  Son  appeared  to  him.  He  saw  them;  they  were  there  be- 
fore him.  We  may  not  perhaps  exactly  explain  how  and  by  what 
means  Joseph  saw  the  Father  and  the  Son.  He  called  it  a  vision. 
That  is  right,  it  was  a  vision.  But  what  is  a  vision  of  that  kind?  A 
vision  like  that  which  Moses  had  when  he  saw  the  Lord  face  to  face. 
He  saw  the  Father  and  spoke  to  him,  and  the  Lord  spoke  to  him. 
Moses  declared  that  he  saw  him,  not  with  his  natural  eyes,  but  with 
his  spiritual  vision :  and  that  there  is  such  a  thing  I  presume  many 
of  us  who  are  here  are  fully  assured.  We  know  it  in  our  own  ex- 
perience, but  not  perhaps  to  the  same  degree  as  Joseph  or  Moses  had 
it,  when  they  conversed  with  the  Lord.  Rut  that  there  is  a  spiritual 
sight  or  vision  we  realize,  and  we  can  draw  very  near  to  our  Father 
and  our  God  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  see  when  others  are 
in  the  dark,  and  comprehend  when  others  are  blinded  in  regard  to 
the  heavenly  truths  which  come  to  people  from  him  for  their  salva- 
tion. 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


VIRTUE  IN  THE  PRAYER  OF  FAITH. 

I  rejoice  in  the  knowledge  of  this  great  truth,  and  I  know  that 
there  is  virtue  in  the  prayer  of  faith.  It  is  the  prayer  of  faith  that 
saves  the  sick  wnen  we  administer  to  them  in  the  way  that  is  ap- 
pointed. The  real  efficacious  prayer  must  be  accompanied  by  faith, 
which  is  the  strength  and  power  of  it ;  and  by  faith  we  can  draw 
near  to  him  who  is  our  living  Head.  And  by  faith  we  can  accomplish 
the  work  set  us  to  do,  no  matter  what  it  may  be.  If  we  put  our  souls 
in  it,  and  in  faith  attempt  the  work  that  we  are  entrusted  with,  in 
that  we  shall  succeed.  In  God  we  trust:  in  God  we  have  faith; 
on  God  we  rely :  and  when  we  do  that  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  the 
Lord,  and  the  powers  behind  the  veil  are  with  us.  The  heavenly  power 
of  the  Priesthood  is  with  us  who  hold  it  here  in  the  flesh,  and  it  is  by 
that  power  that  we  shall  prevail  and  succeed  and  overcome,  and  ac- 
complish the  great  work  of  salvation  entrusted  to  us. 

ALL  THINGS  TO  BE  DONE  IN  THE  NAME  OF  JESUS  CHRIST. 

Everything  in  this  Church  is  to  be  done  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ ;  so  we  have  been  commanded.  This  Church  is  -called  "The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-dav  Saints."  That  was  given  by 
revelation  and  commandment.  It  is  not  merely  the  Church  of  man : 
and  though  men  are  called  of  God  to  work  in  it,  and  to  occupy  prom- 
inent places  in  it,  and  to  use  great  influence  in  building  it  up,  we 
are  building  it  up  to  him  who  is  our  living  Head,  even  Jesus'  the 
Christ.  We  are  to  do  all  things  in  his  name.  When  Peter  was  in- 
strumental in  curing  the  lame  man  by  the  gate  of  the  temple,  he  said : 
Silver  and  gold  have  I  none,  but  such  as  I  have,  give  I  unto  thee : 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth,  rise  up  and  walk;"  and  the 
man  leaped  and  walked.  And  so  it  shall  be  with  this  Church,  which 
Jesus  Christ  has  established  in  the  latter  days.  It  shall  prevail  and 
overcome  every  obstacle  in  the  path. 

wp  Now,  concerning  that  name:  It  is  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  that 
we  are  to  use.  I  will  read  a  verse  or  two  from  the  Doctrine  and  Cov- 

convlv  J'  Tl°nu  There  are  a  mimber  of  othei"  sections  that 
convey  the  same  idea,  but  I  will  not  take  time  to  read  them.  I  will 
begin  with  the  21st  verse: 

IndC  aYmanv"  °f  ?Hst'  lnd  Speak  the  truth  J»  soberness; 

Arm  as  many  as  repent,  and  are  baptized  in  mv  name  which 

J     Rehnlf 'Tand  "r^  '?  tl\e  end'  lhe  sa™  shall  Served  ' 

ther i    none1  other  5  ^  n™  which  »  given  of  the  Father,  and 

mere  is  none  other  name  given  whereby  man  can  be  saved- 

th»  K  -  l  Ven  must  take  uP°n  them  the  name  which  is  given  of 

the  Father  for  in  that  name  shall  they  be  called  at  the  list  da v 

Wherefore,  if  they  know  not  the  name  by  which  theTL,         a  ^ 
cannot  have  place  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father  *        caUed'  they 

•  * Some  Pe°Ple  ma)r  thi,lk  that  there  is  nothing  new  in  that  ■  neither 
is  there,  but  many  of  us  have  fallen  into  the  habit  of  doing  tSs 
in  the  name  of  Jesus,  and  I  notice  that  when  people  bless  their  food 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W .  PENROSE. 


29 


at  the  table,  (or  ask  a  blessing  upon  it)  they  do  it  in  a  sort  of  peculiar, 
hurried  manner,  and  close  it  by  saying  rapidly,  "In  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen."  When  some  men  dismiss  a  meeting  they  are  in  haste  to  pro- 
nounce the  benediction,  and  they  do  it  "in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen." 
There  are  many  men  in  the  world  named  "Jesus"  in  these  latter  days. 
I  was  reading  in  a  newspaper  recently  about  a  murderer  whose  first 
name  was  Jesus,  who  crucified  his  own  child.  He  was  a  fanatic,  a 
madman.  I  notice,  too,  when  you  travel,  in  many  foreign  countries 
you  find  over  the  doors  the  names  of  men  who  keep  what  we  call 
"saloons"  or  public  houses,  and  it  is  Jesus  So-and-so.  Now,  we  are 
to  take  upon  us  the  name  of  Christ,  and  you  will  find,  if  you  will 
read  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  in  the  revelation  of  God  to  Enoch  and 
to  Moses  52,  57,  that  it  is  specified  there,  particularly,  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  name  of  "a  righteous  judge  who  shall  come,"  and  that 
he  is  the  beloved  of  the  Father,  that  he  is  the  firstborn  of  the  Father; 
he  is  the  beloved  Son,  and  when  speaking  in  regard  to  the  future  in 
the  flesh  he  is  called  "the  Only  Begotten"  Son.  God's  only  Begotten 
Son  is  Jesus  Christ — Jesus,  the  Savior,  Christ  the  anointed.  The 
two  names  go  together,  and  they  belong  to  each  other.  Jesus  Christ 
lias  said  that  is  the  name  he  received  from  the  Father,  and  we  are 
to  use  that  name.  When  we  baptize,  we  baptize  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ :  "Having  authority  from  Jesus  Christ,  I  baptize  you,"  and 
so  on.  So  when  we  pronounce  the  blessing  upon  the  sacrament,  the 
bread  or  the  water,  we  ask  the  Father,  in  the  name  of  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ,  to  bless  the  bread  or  to  bless  the  water.  So,  my  brethren,  in 
administering  in  any  of  the  ordinances  of  the  house  of  God,  it  is  to 
be  done  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Do  not  be  afraid  to  use  reverently  the  name  of  Christ.  He  uses 
it  continually.  We  can  read  about  it  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The 
Church  was  the  Church  of  Christ,  and  in  the  last  days  the  Church 
is  to  be  called  by  that  name.  You  may  think  perhaps  that  is  a  matter 
of  little  importance.  Perhaps  it  is  so  to  you ;  but  I  have  found  in  my 
experience,  from  the  beginning  of  my  membership  in  this  Church, 
that  there  is  power  in  that  name.  "In  my  name  they  that  believe  shall 
cast  out  devils ;  they  shall  speak  with  new  tongues,"  and  so  on.  There 
is  power  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Demons  tremble  at  that  name. 
They  recognize  it.  But  when  we,  in  a  slip-shod  way,  use  the  name 
of  Jesus,  and  say  nothing  about  Christ,  I  don't  know  that  it  has  so 
much  power  and  influence.  The  Lord  may  in  mercy  to  our  omission 
accept  our  meaning,  but  never  mind  about  that,  Let  us  do  what  we 
are  told  to  do,  and  administer  in  the  way  that  Jesus  Christ  himself 
says  we  are  to  adminisf°r.  I  will  not  take  time  to  read  from  other 
sections,  that  relate  to  the  same  subject,  but  all  the  revelations  in  this 
book  [the  Doc.  and  Cov.]  given  through  the  Prophet,  or  to  others, 
are  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  He  says:  "Listen  to  the  voice  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  great  I  Am,  whose  arm  of  mercy  hath  atoned  for 
your  sins."  (See  Sections  29,  38,  39  and  others.)  He  is  the  Great  I 
Am  spoken  of  in  the  Hebrew  scriptures. 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


JEHOVAH  OF  THE  OLD  TESTAMENT  IS  JESUS  CHRIST  OF  THE  NEW. 

He  is  the  Jehovah  spoken  of  in  the  Old  Testament.  Jesus  Christ 
of  the  New  Testament,  is  Jehovah  of  the  Old  Testament,  and  he  so 
proclaimed  it  when  he  came  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  Oliver  Cow- 
dery  in  the  temple  of  the  Lord,  the  account  of  which  we  read  in  the 
110th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  They  speak  of  his  ap- 
pearance, the  glorious  appearance  and  power,  and  his  voice  was 
like  the  rush  of  many  waters.  It  was  the  voice  of  Jehovah.  I  say 
this  for  the  benefit  of  some  few  of  my  friends  who  do  not  believe  in 
the  doctrine  that  Jesus  of  the  New  Testament  was  Jehovah  of  the 
Old  Testament.  Jesus  the  Christ  represents  the  Father  fully.  In 
him  dwelleth  the  fulness  of  the  Godhead  bodily,  as  we  read  in  the 
scriptures.  "It  pleased  the  Father  that  in  him  should  all  fulness  dwell." 
And  so  he  could  tell  Philip,  when  asked,  "Lord,  show  us  the  Father :" 
"Llave  I  been  so  long  time  with  you,  and  yet  hast  thou  not  known 
me,  Philip?  He  that  hath  seen  me  hath  seen  the  Father."  God  was 
manifest  in  the  flesh,  in  the  personality  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  and  he 
was  verily  the  Son  of  God,  begotten  of  the  Father,  and  his  mother  was 
the  virgin  Mary.  There  should  be  no  dispute  in  regard  to  this  matter, 
because  it  has  been  made  so  clear  and  full  in  the  revelations  of  God 
to  us. 

THE  TRINITY,   THREE  DISTINCT  PERSONALITIES. 

There  is  a  trinity  in  the  Godhead,  so  the  Prophet  Joseph  taught — 
the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost, — and  they  are  three  distinct 
personalities  in  perfect  unity.  There  is  a  spirit  which  "proceedeth  from 
the  presence  of  God  throughout  the  immensity  of  space,"  the  light 
which  is  in  all  things,  and  through  all  things,  and  round  about  all 
things,  and  the  law  by  "which  all  things  are  governed."  By  that  spirit, 
our  Heavenly  Father  declares,  he  created  all  things  in  the  beginning, 
firstly  spiritually,  and  afterwards  temporally.    Doc.  and  Cov.  Sec.  29. 

We  learn  also  that  this  spirit  of  truth  and  intelligence  and  power 
proceedeth  from  the  Deity,  "throughout  the  immensity  of  space,  and  is 
the  law,  by  which  all  things  are  governed,  by  which  God  is  omnipres- 
ent, by  which  the  word  of  God  is  declared,  whether  through  Jesus  the 
Christ,  or  by  the  personality  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  That  spirit  per- 
vadeth  all  things.  The  Word  is  declared  through  and  by  its  influ- 
ence in  all  the  worlds  that  God  has  created.  We  should  understand 
the  distinction  between  this  universally  diffused  essence,  and  the 
personality  called  the  Holy  Ghost,  whom  Jesus  Christ  said  he  would 
send  to  his  disciples,  and  who  no  doubt  came  on  the  Day  of  Pentecost, 
in  person. 

These  may  seem  small  matters  to  some,  but  we  should  try  and 
get  right  on  all  things,  that  we  may  have  the  unity  of  the  faith,  that 
there  may  be  no  discord  among  us. 

WHAT  IS  TRUTH  ? 

The  spirit  of  truth  reveals  truth,  conveys  the  light  of  truth.  It 
conveys  intelligence.    What  is  intelligence?    It  is  "the  light  of  truth." 


PR  HS I  DENT  CHARLES  W.  PUN  ROSE. 


31 


I  was  pleased  when  President  Grant  read  the  concluding  verse  of 
Brother  Jaques'  splendid  hymn,  where  it  says,  "Truth,  the  sum  of  ex- 
istence, shall  weather  the  worst."  All  the  hymn  is  eulogistic  of  that 
divine  influence  that  we  call  truth. 

Oh  say,  what  is  truth?  'tis  the  fail  est  gem 
That  the  riches  of  worlds  can  produce, 

and  so  on.  But  here  it  tells  something  about  what  it  is.  It  is  "the 
sum  of  existence" — things  past,  things  present,  and  things  to  come, 
facts.  These  are  truth,  and  the  Lord  says  that  "truth  is  knowledge, 
of  things  as  they  are  and  as  they  were,  and  as  they  are  to  come."  (Sec. 
93.)  Some  of  our  brethren  in  writing,  and  a  good  many  in  talking,  say 
truth  is  the  knowledge,  or  a  knowledge  of  thing's.  That  is  some- 
thing that  you  can  have  or  I  can  have  or  can  reject.  The  insertion  of 
a  or  the  is  a  mistake.  Truth  is  knowledge  itself,  information,  intelli- 
gence, things  that  are,  things  that  were,  things  that  are  to  come — knowl- 
edge concerning  them.  That  is  truth.  It  is  a  splendid  definition  and 
answers  the  question  of  ages  more  clearly  than  anything  I  have 
ever  heard  attempted ;  even  better  than  "truth  the  sum  of  existence," 
and  yet  the  two  in  meaning  are  identical.  Now,  let  us  be  correct  in 
that  little  thing,  and  so  in  all  things  that  pertain  to  our  doctrines,  our 
duties  in  the  Priesthood,  brethren,  and  in  our  quotations  of  scripture 
let  us  try  to  be  right,  as  nearly  correct  as  we  can. 

i 

THE  NATURE  AND  RESURRECTION  OF  CHRIST. 

This  day,  as  Brother  Lund  so  plainly  pointed  out  to  us,  is  called 
th*e  anniversary  of  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer. 
I  do  not  know  whether  it  is  exactly  the  right  day,  and  it  does  not 
matter.  It  is  something  like  it  is  with  Christmas  Day.  We  join  with 
the  Christian  world,  as  they  please  to  call  themselves,  in  revering  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  celebrating  his  resurrection.  We  claim  that 
he  actually  was  raised  from  the  dead ;  not  merely  continued  his  exist- 
ence' after  death,  but  the  body  that  was  put  into  the  sepulchre  was 
brought  forth  from  the  tomb,  and  nothing  was  left  but  the  napkin  and 
other  things  that  were  placed  around  it  when  the  body  was  interred. 
He  appeared  to  his  disciples,  and  to  many  others,  five  hundred  breth- 
ren we  are  told.  They  do  not  give  us  their  written  testimony,  but  it 
is  given  in  the  New  Testament.  They  all  saw  him  at  once,  and  he  dis- 
coursed with  them,  and  showed  his  disciples  his  hands  and  his  feet. 
What  for?  To  deceive  them?  To  make  them  think  something  that 
was  not  true?  Not  at  all.  He  wanted  them  to  understand  that  that 
was  the  body  that  was  on  the  cross,  in  which  the  Roman  soldiers  drove 
the  spikes  or  nails  through  the  hands  and  through  the  feet.  He  ex- 
hibited himself,  and  told  them  to  handle  him  and  see,  "For  a  spirit," 
said  he,  "hath  not  flesh  and  bones  as  ye  see  me  have."  Many  of  the 
apostles  lost  their  lives  because  they  testified  concerning  this  fact. 
They  were  witnesses  of  the  resurrection,  the  raising  from  the  dead 
of  the  body  of  the  Redeemer,  quickened  by  the  spirit,  immortalized, 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


beautified,  made  glorious ; -but  the  changes  wrought  upon  it  that  it 
might  be  immortal  did  not  change  the  structure  of  the  body.  It  was 
the  body  of  Jesus,  the  Christ,  who  hung  upon  the  cross,  and  died  for 
the  sins  of  the  world.  And  that  is  the  great  truth  that  we  have  to 
declare,  not  only  his  actual  resurrection  from  the  dead,  but  that  he 
is  the  Savior;  through  him  and  by  him  and  of  him,  the  Father  declared, 
the  worlds  were  created  and  made.  We  know  little  about  his  actual 
life  on  the  earth  during  the  three  years  that  he  labored  in  the  ministry, 
and  still  less  about  his  childhood,  and  we  know  next  to  nothing 
concerning  the  details  of  his  preexistenoe,  except  the  fact  of  it.  He 
was  with  the  Father  in  the  beginning;  he  says  so  in  revelation  to  us, 
in  the  93rd  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants :  "I  also  was  in  the 
beginning  with  the  Father,  and  am  the  Firstborn."  Now,  do  not  be 
deceived,  any  of  you,  by  speculations  that  people  have  had  about  his 
being  "the  son  of  Adam,"  and  other  theoretical  notions.  He  was  the 
Firstborn  of  the  Father,  as  we  read  in  the  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews. 
"When  he  bringeth  his  Firstbegotten  into  the  world,  he  saith,  let  all  the 
angels  of  God  worship  him,"  Jesus  the  Christ,  whose  spirit,  whose  light 
is  in  all  the  worlds  that  have  been  created,  and  is  "the  power  by  which 
they  were  made."  He  was  the  Firstborn  of  the  great  family  to  which 
we  belong,  so  we  call  him  not  only  our  Redeemer,  but  our  Elder 
Brother. 

Well,  some  ask,  did  he  have  a  beginning?  Certainly,  in  his  in- 
dividuality. He  had  no  beginning  in  the  essence  that  composes  his 
spiritual  personality.  Neither  is  he,  in  that,  different  from  us.  We 
also,  he  says,  were  in  the  beginning  with  the  Father,  that  which  is 
spirit,  God  says  that  he  created  them  all.  But  doesn't  he  say  that 
intelligence  never  was  created  or  made?  Yes.  But  what  is  intelli- 
gence? I  have  quoted  to  you  that  "intelligence  is  the  light  of  truth," 
without  beginning,  without  end:  But  "intelligences"  are  individuals 
begotten  of  the  Father,  created,  he  says,  by  him,  or  organized;  and 
whether  you  use  the  term  "created"  or  "organized"  or  "begotten,"  it 
means  the  same  thing.  They  were  his  sons  and  his  daughters.  But 
Christ  Jesus  was  the  Firstborn,  and  so  he  is  preeminent  in  all  things, 
and  all  things  will  become,  some  time,  subject  to  him,  and  every  knee 
will  bow  and  every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  to  the 
glory  of  God  the  Father. 

Let  us  get  this  clearly  in  our  minds,  and  we  will  find  that  there 
are  no  contradictions  in  the  scriptures  of  the  Lord.  Intelligence  is 
without  beginning.  It  is  something  that  can  be  imparted  or  withheld. 
It  is  the  light  of  truth,  and  it  proceeds  from  the  Father,  and  is  con- 
veyed to  us  if  we  will  open  our  hearts  to  receive  it,  and  we  will  receive 
its  gifts  according  to  our  organization  and  capacities  and  the  blessings 
of  God  to  us.  It  is  the  spirit  by  which  God  made  the  worlds,  by  which 
he  governs  them,  by  which  he  is  present  in  them  and  round  about 
them,  and  the  fulness  of  it  is  in  Jesus  the  Christ,  his  Only  Begotten  in 
the  flesh,  and  his  Firstborn  in  the  spirit. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE.  33 


THANKS  BE  TO  GOD  FOR  THE  GIFT  OF  HIS  SON  JESUS  CHRIST. 

We  desire  to  praise  Jesus  our  Redeemer.  Oh,  what  a  blessing  was 
his  crucifixion  to  all  the  world,  to  all  generations  of  the  sons  and 
daughters  of  Adam  ;  by  and  through  him  and  his  atonement  we  can 
be  redeemed  from  the  dead,  from  death,  from  hell,  from  darkness, 
from  the  grave,  from  everything  that  is  hurtful  and  injurious  and  that 
brings  unhappiness.  And  we  can  be  imbued  with  his  Spirit  if  we  obey 
his  gospel,  and  be  able  to  draw  near  unto  him,  and  to  realize  who 
and  what  he  is,  for  a  fact,  for  ourselves.  For  he  will  reveal  himself 
to  us  if  we  will  draw  near  unto  him.  To  use  a  figurative  expression 
that  he  used  to  his  disciples ;  he  will  come  in  with  us  and  sup  with  us 
and  be  in  us  and  round  about  us,  and  be  our  leader  and  our  guide. 
Thanks  be  to  God  the  eternal  Father!  Hallelujah,  praise  his  holy 
name,  for  the  gift  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  for  the  redemption  of  man- 
kind from  the  transgression  of  Adam,  who  is  our  earthly  head.  He  is 
our  father  in  that  sense,  the  father  of  all  the  race.  We  have  had 
fathers  of  our  flesh,  we  have  obeyed  them,  and  so  the  chain  goes  up 
to  the  great  man  who  stood  at  the  head,  the  father  of  all,  Adam.  But 
our  Father  whom  we  worship  is  the  great  Elohim,  who  sits  on  high, 
who  is  working,  through  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  for  our  redemption,  and 
he  is  the  Savior,  after  all,  of  all  that  are  saved.  Through  and  by  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  are  we  redeemed  from  our  own  sins  and  also 
from  the  sin  of  our  first  parents,  the  transgression  of  Adam  and 
Eve  in  the  garden.  He  who  knew  no  sin  offered  himself  as  a  sacri- 
fice for  those  who  had  sinned,  and  that  reaches  right  back  to  Adam. 
It  is  through  Jesus  the  Christ  that  Adam  is  redeemed  from  the  ef- 
fects of  the  fall,  and  through  him  we  are  redeemed  from  death  and  hell 
and  the  grave,  from  our  own  sins  as  well  as  from  the  sin  committed 
by  our  first  parents.  By  obedience  to  his  commandments  we  vcan  be 
washed  clean  from  our  sins  and  imperfections,  but  it  is  the  blood  of 
Jesus  Christ  which  cleanseth  from  all  sin.  Thanks  be  to  God,  I  say, 
for  this  great  gift  unto  us ! 

Let  us  try  to  understand  the  word  of  the  Lord.  It  is  not  partic- 
ularly necessary  that  we  should  spend  all  our  time  thinking  on  these 
ideas  and  theories,  but  there  is  value  in  them  because  they  are  true, 
and  it  is  the  truth  that  will  save.  Jesus  prayed  to  the  Father  to 
sanctify  his  disciples.  "Sanctify  them  by  the  truth,  thy  word  is  truth ;" 
and  by  his  wofd  we  can  obtain  knowledge  of  things  that  are  past  or 
present  or  are  to  come,  and  can  be  in  harmony  with  the  Father  and 
with  the  Son  and  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  with  all  the  great  and 
mighty  beings  who  held  authority  from  them  in  the  ages  that  are 
past,  and  those  who  have  held  it  in  the  dispensation  in  which  we  live, 
those  who  are  living,  and  those  who  have  passed  away.  What  a  glori- 
ous kingdom  there  will  be,  when  sin  is  banished,  when  darkness  is 
dispersed,  when  false  governments  will  perish ;  when  the  true  King- 
dom of  God  shall  be  set  up,  and  Jesus  Christ  as  King  of  kings  and 
Lord  of  lords  shall  reign  over  all  the  earth ;  and  those  who  obey  his 
commandments  will  reign  with  him  in  glory.    The  Saints  of  olden 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


days  and  the  Saints  of  modem  days  will  be  together  there  in  that 
great  company.  There  will  be  no  disunion ;  there  will  be  no  darkness ; 
there  will  be  no  pain,  and  there  will  be  no  more  death,  but  we  shall 
live,  and  live  because  of  the  atonement  wrought  out  for  us  by  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer.  We  shall  be  there,  as  be  will  be  there,  as 
distinct  individual  personalities. 

THE  GLORY  AWAITING  THE  RIGHTEOUS. 

We  shall  not  be  blended  into  one  body,  except  as  an  organization 
of  people.  Each  one  will  be  himself  or  herself,  and  will  shine  in  the 
glory  of  our  Father ;  and  every  quality  that  we  have,  every  attribute, 
every  gift  and  power  of  our  being  that  we  have  obtained  from  our 
birthright  from  our  Father,  all  the  knowledge  we  have  gained  by  our 
experiences  in  the  spirit  life  or  in  mortality  will  be  ours,  and  the 
power  of  endless  lives  will  be  in  us,  because  the  spirit  and  the  body 
will  be  inseparably  joined  together  in  glory,  never  more  to  be  sep- 
arated, and  all  eternity  will  be  before  us  in  which  to  progress  and 
improve  and  rejoice,  and  find  out  more  about  our  Father  and  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Elder  Brother,  the  great  Mediator  and  Exemplar,  whom 
we  are  to  follow  always,  and  joy  will  be  made  supreme  and  per- 
fect. In  this  life  we  only  have  it  imperfectly,  for  the  body  without 
the  spirit  cannot  receive  a  fulness  of  joy,  neither  can  the  spirit  without 
the  body.  The  elements  of  both  are  eternal,  but  each  of  us  has  an 
individual  personality.  When  we  were  born  in  the  spirit,  that  was  our 
first  estate.  Now  we  are  in  our  second  estate,  and  when  the  third 
estate  comes,  if  we  have  been  faithful  in  both,  and  obtained  this  great 
blessing  of  the  spirit  and  the  body  joined  together  in  one,  in  perfec- 
tion, in  complete  harmony  with  the  Father  and  with  the  Son  and  with 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  all  the  great  and  mighty  and  just  and  pure 
and  honest  of  heart  of  all  the  centuries  into  one  great  kingdom  and 
glory,  oh,  how  happy  we  shall  be  in  shouting  "Hallelujah  to  his  holy 
Name !" 

CLOSING  INJUNCTION  TO  FAITHFULNESS.  • 

I  feel  that  I  can  do  that  this  afternoon,  echoing  the  anthem  by  the 
choir.  I  do  not  want  to  take  up  too  much' time.  Perhaps  I  have  talked 
too  long  already.  There  are  a  number  of  brethren  here  whom  all  the 
people  want  to  hear.  I  rejoice  with  them  and  glorify  God  to  know 
that  the  organization  of  this  Church  has  been  fully  established. 
Study  the  107th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  elders  of 
Israel.  Read  it  carefully  from  beginning  to  end.  Weigh  every  phrase 
in  it,  and  see  the  beauty  of  that  organization  of  Priesthood  which 
the  Lord  has  set  up,  and,  so  far,  has  perfected.  Live  as  servants  and 
priests  of  the  Most  High  God,  perform  your  duties,  and  set  a  good 
example.  Take  the  hint  given  to  you  this  morning  by  Brother  Lund 
in  regard  to  your  tithing.  We  learn  from  President  Grant  of  the 
immense  amount  of  money  that  is  being  expended  and  that  which  is 
called  for.  Oh,  if  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  could  realize  what  a  bless- 
ing there  is  in  the  payment  of  their  tithes,  honestly, — which  means  a 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W .  PENROSE. 


35 


tenth ;  it  does  not  mean  a  fifth  nor  a  twentieth,  it  is  the  tenth,  the 
tenth  of  our  interest  before  the  Lord, — if  they  would  do  that  we 
would  have  no  difficulty  in  complying  with  the  requests  that  are 
coming  in  by  the  hundreds  every  clay  of  our  lives  there  in  the  office — 
for  appropriations  for  different  objects  that  are  very  good,  but  there 
are'not  means  enough  now  to  comply  with  the  demands. 

If  all  the  servants  of  God,  high  priests,  seventies,  elders,  and  the 
members  of  the  lesser  Priesthood,  would  obey  that  commandment 
of  Jesus  Christ,  that  is,  to  pay  their  tenth,  and  the  means  come  into  the 
hands  of  the  servants  of  God,  who  are  honestly  and  faithfully  and 
patiently  striving  to  use  it  and  distribute  it  to  bring  about  the  best  re- 
sults, what  a  blessing  it  would  be  to  them  individually,  for  they 
would  grow  in  grace  and  in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  have  con- 
fidence in  God  when  they  pray,  and  it  would  be  an  example  to  the 
Saints  and  be  a  blessing  to  the  Church  to  which  we  belong,  this  splen- 
did organization  that  God  has  set  up  to  continue  an,d  abide.  Faith- 
ful and  true  should  be  those  who  have  received  the  authority  of  the 
holy  Priesthood,  honest  and  pure  in  their  dealings  with  one  another, 
and  in  their  dealings  with  the  Lord. 

•The  tithing  is  called  "a  voluntary  contribution."  But  what  should 
that  be?  It  should  be  a  tenth,  just  as  the  Lord  has  commanded.  And 
so,  of  course,  in  regard  to  all  other  duties  in  the  Church.  That  is  not 
the  only  one,  by  any  means.  Every  one  of  us  Latter-day  Saints 
should  endeavor  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church  in  the  full  sense  of  the 
word,  baptized  into  Christ,  having  put  on  Christ,  trying  to  carry 
out  the  commandments  of  Jesus  Christ,  trying  to  live  in  the  spirit 
of  Jesus  Christ,  so  that  we  shall  not  be  ashamed  when  we  stand  up 
.in  the  midst  of  that  great  concourse  in  judgment,  and  behold  the 
face  of  our  Redeemer,  and  realize  that  he  is  indeed  what  he  has 
been  proclaimed  to  be.  Let  us  be  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  full  sense  of  the  word,  and  use  our 
talents  and  abilities,  such  as  they  are,  in  the  service  of  the  Lord,  and 
we  will  find  the  truth  of  his  promise  :  "Behold  I  come.  My  reward 
is  with  me,  but  my  work  is  before  me."  Do  your  work,  Israel,  and 
gain  the  reward  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  duet  "God  With  Us"  was  sung  by  James  H.  Nielson,  tenor, 
and  Raymond  Williams,  baritone. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  testimonies  that  have 
been  borne  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference,  and  am  very  happy, 
for  in  my  heart  there  are,  today,  feelings  of  gratitude  to  our  Father 
in  heaven  that  I  also  know  that  that  which  the  brethren  have  testi- 
fied to  is  true. 

WHY  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  ARE  POSITIVE  IN  THEIR  RELIGIOUS 
DECLARATIONS. 

It  undoubtedly  seems  a  very  positive  position  for  us  to  take,  to 


36 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE. 


be  able  to  speak  with  such  certainty  concerning  the  work  the  Lord 
is  doing  in  the  world,  in  our  day;  to  speak  with  such  certainty  con- 
cerning the  visitation  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  received  a  hundred 
years  ago,  wherein  the  Father  and  the  Son  actually  appeared  to  him. 
We  may  impress  our  friends,  by  reason  of  our  positive  position,  with 
arrogance,  but  that  is  not  the  thought  that  is  in  our  hearts.  We 
know  what  we  know,  and  we  testify  to  it  in  earnestness  and  in  hu- 
mility. I  remember  a  gentleman,  a  minister,  said  on  one  occasion, 
in  a  private  discussion  which  I  had  with  him,  that  he  thought  we 
were  too  positive  about  the  things  of  religion.  He  thought  we  had 
not  considered  the  question  of  God  enough  to  be  able  to  speak  with 
such  certainty.  He  informed  me  that  he  belonged  to  a  church  that 
was  several  hundred  years  older  than  the  one  to  which  I  belonged, 
and  he  said  that  his  church  had  been  considering  these  questions  for 
a  long  time  and  had  altered  their  view  and  their  opinion  about  a 
good  many  theological  questions.  I  granted  that  that  was  true ;  and  he 
ventured  the  assertion  that  after  we  had  been  discussing  these  theo- 
logical questions  as  long  as  they  had,  perhaps  we  would  change  our 
opinion  also.  And  in  order  to  establish  his  point  he  used  this  illus- 
tration : 

"If  you  had  a  problem  to  give  for  solution  and  you  selected  ten 
boys  to  solve  the  problem,  and  you  gave  one  of  them  ten  days  in  which 
to  study  it,  and  then  another  boy  nine  days  and  still  another  boy  eight, 
and  so  forth,  until  you  had  one  boy  studying  on  the  problem  but  one 
day  and  one  studying  ten  days;  now  which  boy,  at  the  conclusion  of 
the  ten  days,  would  know  most  about  the  problem,  the  one  who  had 
been  studying  but  one  day  or  the  one  who  had  studied  ten  days?" 

Well,  you  would  have  to  concede,  as  I  did,  that  if  all  things 
were  equal,  of  course,  the  boy  that  had  been  studying  ten  days  ought 
to  know  most  about  the  problem. 

"Well,  there  you  are,"  he  said;  "we  have  been  studying  it  longer 
than  you  have,  and  you  are  one  of  the  youngest  churches,  and  so  you 
are  likely  to  change  your  mind  when  you  study  it  a  little  longer." 

"But,"  I  said,  "suppose  the  boy  who  has  had  the  problem  but 
one  day  receives  the  visit  of  a  professor  who  knows  all  about  the 
problem  and  who  illustrates  it  so  that  now  it  is  perfectly  clear  to 
the  mind  of  the  boy,  who  knows  most  about  it,  the  boy  who  has  thus 
been  aided,  only  having  had  the  chance  to  study  it  one  day,  or  the 
boy  who  has  been  dreaming  about  it  for  ten  days  ?" 

_  "Why,"  he  said,  "of  course,  the  boy  who  was  thus  aided  and 
assisted  knew  most  about  the  problem." 

Then  I  said:  "That  is  exactly  where  we  stand."  Joseph  Smith 
did  not  know,  because  of  earthly  wisdom  and  his  reading  of  the 
scriptures,  more  about  our  Father  in  heaven  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ, 
than  the  learned  ministers  of  the  world.  Not  by  that  means  did  he 
obtain  his  knowledge,  but  in  the  few  moments  that  he  knelt  in  the 
sacred  grove  in  the  presence  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  he  knew  more 
about  God  the  eternal  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  than  all  the 
ministers  of  all  the  world  ever  have  known,  or  ever  will  know,  except 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


37 


they  shall  be,  in  like  manner,  informed  and  instructed.  So  that  the  wis- 
dom he  had  came  to  him  from  the  source  to  which  men  must  go  if 
they  shall  know  our  Father  in  heaven. 

While  we  speak  with  this  certainty  and  this  positiveness,  we 
desire  to  be  charitable  to  our  brethren  and  sisters  who  have  not  this 
faith.  I  think  of  their  condition  with  a  feeling-  of  almost  pity  and 
sorrow.  I  realize  that  among  them  are  many  who  desire  to  do  right, 
who  do  right  so  far  as  they  have  knowledge,  who  are  blinded  be- 
cause of  the  traditions  of  their  fathers,  who  have  ears  but  hear  not, 
eyes  and  see  not,  and  hearts  that  can  not  understand.  We  have 
not  read  the  scriptures  and  obtained  this  superior  knowledge  because 
of  our  increased  intelligence.  If  we  should  sweep  away  the  knowl- 
edge that  has  come  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  revelations  con-  - 
tained  in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  the  revelations  we 
have  conoerning  the  great  plan  of  salvation,  as  revealed  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  other  inspired  utterances  that  have  fallen  from  the 
lips  of  the  prophets  of  God  from  the  days  of  Joseph  until  this  day, — 
if  we  should  sweep  those  away,  and  have  nothing  but  the  fragmentary 
utterances  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  his  apostles,  as  found  in 
the  scriptures,  left,  we  would  not  know  any  better  than  others  the 
truth  concerning  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  nor  the  plan  of  church 
organization. 

Just  at  this  time  the  whole  Christian  world  is  considering  the 
question  of  a  unity  of  churches,  acknowledging  that  the  system  that 
has  produced  division  is  wrong,  and  makes  for  weakness  and  not  for 
strength.  Now,  how  in  the  world  will  they  ever  unite,  except  that 
which  is  lost  shall  come  again?  Their  lamentable  condition  has 
been  produoed  because  men  have  not  preserved,  from  the  days  of 
the  Redeemer's  ministry  among  his  servants  on  the  earth,  the  truth 
Jesus  taught.  When  we  think  of  his  three  years  of  ministry  it  must 
have  amounted  to  hundreds  of  sermons,  hours  in  length,  in  which 
he  discoursed  upon  all  the  fundamental  truths  of  the  gospel.  There 
evidently  was  no  question  in  the  minds  of  his  followers  as  to  what 
they  should  do  to  be  saved,  but  the  difficulty  with  the  present  sit- 
uation is  that  we  have  but  a  fragment  of  what  he  uttered.  If  you 
should  combine  all  the  several  narratives,  as  they  are  found  in  the 
Gospels,  into  one  narrative  and  eliminate  the  duplication  of  the  story, 
it  is  said  that  it  could  be  read  in  an  hour  and  fifteen  minutes  and 
would  constitute  but  seventeen  pages  of  our  scripture.  That  is  a 
very  small  part  of  the  great  message  which  the  Master  delivered  to 
men.  No  wonder  the  world  is  in  confusion  and  some  believe  in  wor- 
shiping on  the  seventh  day  and  others  disagree  with  that  opinion  and 
each  seems  to  find  some  scripture  to  justify  his  position.  No  wonder 
there  is  doubt  and  uncertainty  concerning  the  subject  of  baptism, 
concerning  the  form  and  the  manner  of  it,  because  the  details  con- 
cerning that  doctrine  have  not  been  preserved ;  and  likewise  con- 
cerning the  organization  of  the  church.  It  is  true  that  the  names  of 
prophets  and  apostles  and  pastors  and  teachers  occur  in  the  sacred 
record,  but  the  duties  of  each  are  not  so  well  defined ;  the  work  and 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  labor  and  the  relative  position  of  these  several  officers  are  not  set 
forth  so  that  men  can  work  out  again  or  reestablish,  without  further 
knowledge,  the  true  organization  of  the  Church  of  Christ.  When  I 
think  of  the  contention  of  our  Protestant  brethren,  that  the  world 
had  gone  into  idolatry  and  had  lost  the  truth,  and  that  a  state  of  apos- 
tasy existed  up  to  the  time  of  the  Reformation,  I  cannot  blame  these 
men.  It  seems  to  me  that  there  ought  to  be  rejoicing  among  those  who 
belong  to  the  Protestant  cause  that  there  is  proof  of  the  truthfulness 
of  their  contention  found  in  the.  utterances  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
to  Joseph  Smith,  who  verified  what  those  great  reformers  had  been 
declaring,  namely,  that  there  was  an  apostasy  and  the  truth  was  not 
in  the  earth.  What  has  happened,  from  the  time  they  took  their 
stand  and  made  these  positive  declarations,  that  gives  evidence  that 
the  truth  which  had  been  lost  was  restored?  For  they  themselves  con- 
fessed it  did  not  exist  in  the  earth.  None  of  them  claimed  that  an 
angel  had  visited  them  and  restored  the  Priesthood ;  none  of  them 
claimed  to  have  received  any  new  word  from  the  Lord  clarifying 
the  situation,  and  making  the  doctrines  of  the  church  now  plain  and 
simple,  so  that  the  way-faring  man,  though  a  fool,  need  not  err 
therein. 

I  wish  we  had  all  that  Jesus  uttered.  I  believe  it  would  be  per- 
fectly easy  to  make  it  plain  to  the  minds  of  men  who  are  honest  that 
there  has  been  a  departure  from  the  gospel  as  Jesus  established  it, 
and  that  they  themselves  ane  going  at  cross  purposes  to  the  plan 
he  devised.  Why  don't  we  have  more  of  that  which  Jesus 
spoke?  Simply  because  years  elapsed  before  some  men  wrote  what  they 
could  remember  of  the  sermons,  or  the  substance  of  the  sermons,  of 
Christ ;  and  it  was  only  a  very  brief  account ;  after  all,  precious  as  it 
is,  very  meagre  and  not  sufficient  to  guide  all  men  to  a  common 
understanding  of  the  gospel.  Every  word  that  fell  from  the  lips 
of  the  Master  was  essential ;  not  one  word  was  idle,  not  one  word 
was  useless,  but  every  word  was  essential  for  the  salvation  of  men ; 
and  "Mormonism"  proclaims  to  the  world  that  that  which  has  been 
lost  has  come  again,  and  until  that  which  has  been  lost  does  come 
again  the  world  will  continue  to  be  in  darkness  and  in  ignorance  of 
the  truth ;  and  not  until  men  shall  go  to  the  Source  that  Joseph  Smith 
applied  to  himself,  when  on  bended  knee  he  sought  the  Lord  to  know 
which  of  all  the  denominations  was  right,  shall  they  know  the 
truth.  Not  until  all  men  shall  acknowledge  that  that  and  that  alone 
is  the  Source  from  whence  light  and  knowledge  must  come,  can  the 
world  come  to  a  unity  of  the  faith.  Until  that  day  we  shall  find 
the  world  wandering  in  darkness,  hither  and  thither,  seeking  light, 
but  can  not  find  it,  their  eyes  being  blinded.  O  how  the  world  ought 
to  rejoice  that  in  this  day  that  which  so  long  has  been  lost  has  been 
restored,  the  fulness  of  the  gospel,  the  power  and  authority  of  the 
holy  Priesthood,  the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  and  not  only  that  but 
the  organization  of  the  Church  as  well  in  its  perfection  and  in  its 
power.  When  I  think  of  the  efforts  of  men  to  rebuild  the  Church, 
— and  I  do  not  want  to  belittle  their  efforts — I  do  not  blame  them.  I 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


39 


believe  that  Joseph  Smith  and  his  associates  could  not  have  done 
any  better  than  Martin  Luther,  nor  than  Wesley  or  others,  except  for 
the  fact  that  the  Lord  revealed  himself  to  him.  So  I  do  not  belittle  the 
efforts  of  these  men  who  did  the  best  they  could  with  the  light  and 
knowledge  which  they  had,  but  their  knowledge  was  limited. 
Their  effort  to  rebuild'  and  establish  the  Church  of  Christ  reminds 
me  of  the  experience  I  had  with  my  first  watch.  I  wanted  to  see 
what  it  was  made  of,  so  I  took  it  to  pieces,  and  I  had  so  many  wheels 
that  when  I  tried  to  put  it  together  again  I  could  not  get  all  those 
wheels  within  that  case.  I  put  in  as  many  as  I  could  and  it  looked  like  a 
watch  all  right;  but  it  did  not  serve  the  purpose  for  which  a  watch 
is  made,  to  keep  the  time.  Every  wheel  was  important  and  necessary 
And  so  men  have  tried  to  fix  up  a  church.  They  have  read  of  numer- 
ous officers,  apostles,  and  prophets  and  pastors,  but  they  could  not  fit 
them  together.  They  just  took  a  few  officers — like  I  did  with  tve 
wheels  of  my  watch — and  made  it  look  like  a  church,  with  a  deacon 
arid  an  elder,  or  an  elder  and  a  priest.  It  might  seem  like  a  church, 
but  it  was  as  useless  to  accomplish  the  thing  for  which  the  Church 
of  Christ  was  established,  as  my  watch  was  useless  without  its  import- 
ant wheels,  each  one  fitting  into  the  other ;  for  it  is  said  of  old  that  the 
head  could  not  say  to  the  foot :  "I  have  no  need  of  thee ;"  but  every  of- 
ficer in  his  place  for  his  purpose,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the 
perfection  of  the  Saints. 

These,  our  Christian  brethren,  have  done  the  best  they  could,  but 
they  have  failed,  and  it  remained  for  the  Lord  to  build  his  Church 
again.  No  man  can  do  it.  He  is  a  Master  Builder  and  he  has  sent  his 
inspired  servants  who  have  taught  men  the  plan  and  the  pattern  of 
the  organization  of  his  Church  and  have  fitted  in  these  officers,  so 
that,  while  the  "Mormon"  Church  is  admired  and  even  envied  by 
those  opposed  to  us,  as  the  most  wonderful  organization  in  the  world, 
the  most  wonderful  part  of  it  is  that  it  works,  and  that  it  does  not 
become  a  machine  that  easily  gets  out  of  joint  or  kilter,  but  it  works 
forward  for  the  material  salvation  of  the  people  as  well  as  for  their 
{spiritual  salvatiqn.  Men  may  duplicate  the  organization  of  this 
Church  and  when  they  have  done  it,  when  they  have  fitted  in  the  of- 
ficers and  given  them  their  appointed  places,  still  they  shall  have  a 
dead  thing.  You  may  establish  a  perfect  system  of  electric  lighting 
in  this  building  or  this  city,  you  may  have  your  dynamo,  you  may 
have  your  wires  running  through  the  streets,  properly  insulated,  your 
poles  and  everything  complete,  and  the  globes  here,  but  you  can  have 
no  light,  and  no  power,  until  through  your  perfect  system  there  runs 
light  and  power  and  heat.  And  so  you  may  have  a  perfect  church 
organization,  but  it  will  be  perfectly  dead  and  useless  unless,  going 
through  it,  there  is  the  power  of  the  living  God,  which  is  the  source 
of  life  and  light  to  his  Church.  We  have  the  perfect  system  and  it 
has,  radiating  through  it,  the  power  of  the  living  God,  the  authority 
of  the  holy  Priesthood,  and  the  ordinances  thus  performed  are  effi- 
cacious and  valid  for  men  on  the  earth  and  remain  sealed  upon  their 
heads  through  their  faithfulness,  even  into  the  eternal  world. 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


THE  GLORY  OF  THE  RESURRECTION  OF  CHRIST. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  that  we  have  listened  to  on  this  Easter 
Sabbath  day,  with  respect  to  the  resurrection  of  the  Redeemer,  and 
when  I  think  of  his  ascension  from  the  grave,  I  rejoice  to  know  that 
He  is  the  Life  and  that  he  is  the  Way.  And  when  I  think  also  of 
removing  that  last  act  in  the  great  drama  of  his  life,  his  coming  forth 
from  the  tomb- — remove  that  and  you  take  away  the  crowning  glory 
of  the  ministry  of  the  Redeemer.  Had  the  stone  not  been  rolled 
away  and  had  he  not  risen  from  the  dead,  then  it  would  have  been 
exceedingly  difficult  for  men  to  have  had  the  faith  in  him  they  now 
have.  He  had  power  in  his  life  over  disease  that  the  sick  could  be 
healed ;  he  had  power  over  death  that  men  could  be  called  from  death 
back  to  mortal  life.  Many  had  witnessed  this.  He  had  power  over 
the  elements  that  the  winds  and  the  waves  should  obey  his  voice. 
He  could  speak,  and  loaves  and  fishes  would  materialize  under  his 
power.  He  had  more  power  than  had  ever  been  revealed  to  man 
from  the  beginning  of  time  on  this  earth,  but  there  remained  one 
thing  more.  He  promised,  just  before  he  laid  his  body  down,  that  he 
would  be  equal  to  the  emergency  and  bring  it  up  from  the  dead,  not 
back  to  mortal  life,  but  to  a  newness  of  life,  to  immortality  and  eternal 
life.  And  when  he  arose  from  the  dead  and  came  forth  in  splendor, 
a  resurrected,  immortal  and  eternal  being,  he  then  arose  to  the  height 
of  power,  of  glory  and  of  majesty,  and  became  the  Master  of  all 
things,  even  death  yielding  to  him,  and  he  said  he  did  only  that 
which  he  had  witnessed  his  Father  do.  Then,  if  it  brought  glory  and 
honor  and  power  and  majesty  to  the  Master  to  rise  from  the  dead, 
so  in  like  manner  did  it  bring  glory  and  honor  and  power  and  majesty 
to  his  Father  to  have  in  a  similar  manner  arisen  from  the  grave  to 
possess  a  glorified  body  dwelling  in  the  eternal  world  as  the  great 
organizer  and  presiding  genius  over  all  his  creations,  his  sons  and 
his  daughters. 

A  TESTIMONY  THAT  CHRIST  AROSE  FROM  THE  TOMB  AND  LIVES. 

Therefore,  we  rejoice  in  the  witness  we  have  that  Jesus  told  the 
truth,  that  the  testimony  of  his  disciples  concerning  his  resurrection 
is  the  truth,  and  we  also  know  that  the  testimony  of  Joseph  Smith 
and  his  brethren,  who  looked  upon  the  face  of  the  Redeemer,  is  true. 
I  bear  witness  that  I  know  what  they  have  said  is  the  truth.  I  know, 
as  well  as  I  know  that  I  live,  and  look  into  your  faces,  that  Jesus 
Christ  lives,  and  he  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  he  arose  from 
the  dead  with  a  tangible  body,  and  still  has  that  real  body  which 
Thomas  touched  when  he  thrust  his  hands  into  his  side  and  felt  the 
wound  of  the  spear,  and  also  the  prints  of  the  nails  in  his  hands.  I 
know  by  the  witness  and  the  revelations  of  God  to  me  that  Thomas 
told  the  truth.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  told  the  truth,  for  mine 
eyes  have  seen.  For  in  the  visions  of  the  Lord  to  my  soul,  I  have 
seen  Christ's  face,  I  have  heard  his  voice.  I  know  that  he  lives,  that 
he  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  as  he  arose  from  the  dead, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  41 

a  tangible  and  real  individual,  so  shall  all  men  arise  in  the  resurrection 
from  the  dead. 

The  Lord  bless  us  to  keep  this  faith  in  our  hearts  that  we  may  go 
forth  with  charity  for  our  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  world,  intrusted 
with  these  glorious  truths  for  their  blessings,  that  we  may  bring  to 
them  that  which  they  sadly  need,  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  for  their  salvation.  May  they  divest  themselves 
of  pride  and  of  preconceived  notions  and  prejudices,  and  not  despise 
the  source  from  whence  this  message  comes,  and  not  be  as  blind 
and  ignorant  as  their  fathers  were  before  them,  who  thought  no  good 
could  come  from  Nazareth. 

And  if  it  should  now  happen,  as  it  has  happened,  that  from  a  de- 
spised source  there  has  come  the  light  of  the  Lord  for  the  blessing 
of  the  world  from  a  despised  "Mormon,"  Oh,  may  our  father's  chil- 
dren divest  themselves  of  blindness  and  see  the  glorious  truth  that 
has  come  that  we  now  offer  to  the  east  and  to  the  west,  to  the  north 
and  to  the  south,  for  their  salvation  in  this  life  and  in  the  world  to 
come. 

The  Lord  bless  us  to  do  our  part,  and  bless  them  that  they  may 
see  that  we  are  their  friends,  that  we  love  them,  and  we  would  not 
harm  them,  that  we  hold  precious  and  sacred  things  in  trust  for 
them  and  for  ourselves,  that  we  may  honor  and  respect  these  glorious 
privileges  that  are  ours,  rise  to  the  emergency  with  due  gratitude,  em- 
brace every  commandment  of  our  Father,  and  keep  it  that  we  may 
continue  to  be  the  light  of  the  world  and  the  salt  of  the  earth,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Mrs.  Franzeska  Raabe  Parkinson  sang  a  soprano  solo,  "The 
Lord's  Prayer." 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

My  heart  is  filled  with  a  desire  to  say  something  to  this  wonder- 
ful audience,  that  will  be  prompted  by  the  inspiration  of  our  heavenly 
Father.  I  regret  that,  since  I  was  presiding  at  the  overflow  meeting 
this  morning,  I  did  not  hear  what  was  said  at  the  meeting  in  this 
building.  I  have  been  thrilled  with  the  testimonies  that  have  been 
borne  this  afternoon.  The  remarks  of  President  Penrose  were  power- 
ful, although  he  is  nearly  ninety  years  of  age.  In  him  we  have  a 
living  witness  of  the  blessing  of  our  heavenly  Father  for  his  servants. 

I  was  touched,  too,  with  the  thrilling  faith  and  testimony  of 
Brother  Ballard. 

WHAT  IS  THE  POWER  BEHIND  THE  CHURCH? 

He  made  some  references  to  an  electric  lighting  system.  What  is 
it  that  makes  the  light?  As  he  explained^  it  is  not  the  globe,  nor  the 
wires,  nor  the  poles,  nor  the  generators;  but  it  is  the  water  on  the 
wheel  that  does  the  work. 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


One  hundred  years  ago,  in  the  interest  of  humanity,  the  heavens 
were  opened.  God'  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son,  came  to  the 
earth  and  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  this  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  What  is  it  that  gives  this  Church  its  power?  What  is  it  that 
has  brought  all  these  people  together  on  this  occasion?  Why  have 
you  come  from  afar  to  attend  this  conference?  Because  of  the  Spirit 
of  our  Father  in  heaven.  It  is  this  Spirit  that  is  the  water  on  the 
wheel. 

EXAMPLES  OF  THIS  POWER. 

Some  six  months  ago  a  rather  delicate  little  woman  came  into 
my  office.  She  is  the  wife  of  one  of  our  missionaries.  When  her 
husband  came  to  see  me,  as  he  was  starting  out  to  preach  the  gospel, 
I  said  to  him :  "Young  man,  what  is  it  going  to  cost  you  to  take  this 
mission?"  He  replied:  "I  don't  know,  I  have  no  idea.  But,"  he 
continued,  "my  little  wife  and  I  have  been  saving  for  a  long  time. 
It  has  been  her  ambition  and  mine,  as  it  has  been  the  ambition  of  my 
widowed  mother,  that  sometime  I  would  go  on  a  mission.  Our  sav- 
ings in  the  bank  amount  to  $1,500,  and  we  think  probably  that  will  be 
enough." 

"My  girl,"  I  said  to  the  little  wife,  "how  are  you  getting  along? 
Have  you  spent  all  that  money  yet?" 
"No,  not  yet,"  she  replied. 
"How  much  have  you  spent?"  I  asked. 

"Not  any,  yet,"  she  replied,  "my  strawberries  and  peaches  and 
garden  stuff  have  been  so  profitable  that  instead  of  taking  money 
out  of  the  bank  I  have  sent  my  husband  all  he  needed  and  have  added 
two  hundred  dollars  to  the  account."   That  is  water  on  the  wheel. 

Not  very  long  ago  I  called  into  my  office  a  young  man  in  whom 
I  am  greatly  interested.  He  came  with  a  smile  and  said :  "You 
have  a  job  for  me,  have  you?" 

"Yes,  I  have  a  job  for  you?" 

"All  right,  what  is  it?" 

"I  want  you  to  go  on  a  mission." 

"On  a  mission?  I  should  say  not,  I  can't  go  on  a  mission.  I 
haven't  been  very  active  in  Church  work.  My  folks  have  been  send- 
ing me  to  school.    I  have  just  been  graduated." 

He  was  graduated  with  a  bachelor  of  arts  degree. 

"I  have  been  studying  all  these  years,"  he  continued,  "preparing 
myself  to  make  a  living.  It  is  my  duty  now  to  go  to  work  and  help 
my  folks." 

A  few  words  to  his  excellent  mother,  a  few  words  to  his  excel- 
lent father,  a  little  encouragement  to  the  boy  himself,  and  away  he 
went  to  preach  the  gospel — to  induce  his  fellow  men  to  strive  to  live 
in  accordance  with  the  perfect  life  and  example  of  Jesus  Christ. 

We  are  all  familiar  with  the  parable  of  Lazarus  and  the  rich 
man.  This  missionary  having  gone  into  the  field  has  been  touched 
by  the  power  and  Spirit  of  God.    The  water  has  been  working  on 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


4A 


the  wheel,  and,  like  Lazarus,  he  has  become  greatly  interested  in  his 
friends  who  are  left  at  home.  He  wants  me  to  take  up  a  labor  with 
his  associates  to  get  them  into  the  mission  field.  He  urges  especially 
that  I  talk  to  his  brother.  "I  want  him,"  he  says,  "to  take  a  mission 
as  soon  as  mine  is  completed." 

In  my  pocket  I  have  a  letter  from  him  of  fourteen  pages.  He 
writes  that  he  has,  during  his  college  course,  been  studying  phil- 
osophy, history,  logic,  ethics,  etc.,  and  he  is  amazed  to  find  that  all  the 
wisdom  of  the  wise  men  of  the  ages  is  contained  in  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.    He  begins  to  see  that  there  is  water  on  our  wheel. 

This  young  man  has  gone  into  the  mission  field.  The  Spirit  has 
touched  him  and  he  writes  giving  me  the  names  of  his  chums.  If  any 
of  them  are  here  this  afternoon  they  will  probably  be  keeping  out  of  my 
way.  He  gives  me  a  long  list  and  asks  me  to  work  with  them  and  send 
them  into  the  mission  field.  When  they  are  ready  to  come  he  says  he 
will  give  them  help,  he  will  give  them  service,  he  will  send  them  out- 
lines of  the  doctrines,  he  will  give  them  the  line  of  argument  that  means 
more  than  any  kind  of  logic  except  that  which  is  found  in  the  gospel  oi 
Jesus  Christ. 

HOW  MAY  WE  KNOW  THE  TRUTH  ? 

My  life  has  been  devoted  pretty  largely  to  a  study  of  mathematics 
The  conclusions  that  I  have  reached  in  this  work  have  been  based 
upon  some  sort  of  definite  and  positive  hypotheses  and  in  coming  to 
conclusions  from  these  hypotheses,  I  have  moved  by  logical  steps  to 
definite  and  certain  conclusions. 

Now,  how  can  we  know  that  the  gospel  is  true  ?  This  afternoon 
you  heard  the  testimony  of  Brother  Ballard,  you  heard  the  testimony 
of  President  Penrose.  If  I  were  to  ask  all  those  present  who  know 
that  the  gospel  is  true  to  stand,  nearly  all  of  this  great  multitude  would 
probably  arise.  In  the  Assembly  Hall,  this  morning,  three  or  four 
speakers  each  stood  up  and  said  he  knew  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet,  that  this  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  How  can  they  know  it?  How  can  they  speak  thus  positively? 

I  will  tell  you  how.  Jesus  himself  has  said :  "This  is  not  my 
doctrine  but  his  that  sent  me,"  and  "if  any  man" — not  a  few — but  "if 
any  man  will  do  the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  I  speak  of 
myself."  Therefore  I  say  to  you  and  to  all  the  world,  all  a  man  needs 
to  do  is  to  live  in  accordance  with  the  gospel  teachings  and  he  will 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  the  man  speaks 
of  himself. 

MISSIONARIES  LEARN  THE  TRUTH   THROUGH  SERVICE. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  one  hundred  years  ago  this  spring  since 
the  heavens  were  opened  and  the  gospel  was  revealed.  Those  who 
have  gone  into  the  field  to  give  service,  without  an  exception,  so  far 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


as  I  know,  have  gone  not  for  money,  not  for  honor,  not  for  personal 
gain,  but  because  they  loved  the  Lord.  In  the  mission  field  missionaries 
work  for  the  good  of  others ;  they  do  good  to  their  fellowmen,  they 
live  in  strict  conformity  with  the  Master's  teachings  and  the  promise 
in  Holy  Writ  is  fulfilled  because  into  their  heart  comes  that  knowl- 
edge and  each  one  says:  "I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  the 
gpspel  has  been  revealed  and  that  those  who  keep  the  commandments 
of  our  Father  in  heaven  will  be  saved  in  his  kingdom." 

Let  us  struggle  on  together,  remembering  that  we  all  have  weak- 
nesses ;  let  us  live  on,  struggle  on,  and  hope  on,  that  our  shortcom- 
ings may  be  overcome;  that  we  may  be  thoroughly  worthy  of  the 
wonderful  blessings  promised  to  the  faithful,  that  the  purposes  of  our 
Father  may  be  fulfilled  and  that  they  may  be  fulfilled  swiftly;  I  ask  it, 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

(President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission) 

It  is  because  of  a  spirit  of  obedience  to  the  request  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  that  I  stand  here  at  this  time.  I  feel  my  weak- 
ness and  utter  inability  without  the  aid  of  the  Lord  to  supplement  the 
splendid  discourses  that  have  been  delivered  at  this  conference  thus 
far.  ' 

It  has  been  impressed  upon  my  mind,  by  the  instructions  we  have 
received,  that  our  heavenly  Father  should  be  our  eternal  refuge  and 
our  guide  through  life.  God  said  unto  Moses:  "I  am  the  Lord  thy 
God,  which  brought  thee  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  out  of  the  house 
of  bondage.  Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me."  One  of  old 
worshiped  the  god  of  ambition,  and  when  earthly  joys  had  grown  dim, 
and  earthly  hopes  been  crushed,  he  said,  out  of  the  depths  of  a  broken 
heart,  "Had  I  but  served  my  God  with  half  the  zeal  I  served  my  king, 
he  would  not  in  mine  old  age  have  left  me  naked  unto  my  enemies." 
Another  one,  who  was  wealthy,  when  he  was  dying,  said :  "All  that  I 
have  kept  I  have  lost,  and  all  that  I  have  given  away  I  have."  What 
a  splendid  example  of  the  lesson  and  value  of  sacrifice ! 

God  is  our  refuge.  To  him  Oliver  Cowdery  went  when  he  was 
a  school-teacher,  boarding  with  the  parents  of  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Prophet.  After  conversing  about  the  plates,  from  which  the  Boole 
of  Mormon  was  translated,  Oliver  appealed  unto  the  Lord,  and  it  was 
revealed  unto  him  that  of  a  verity,  in  truth  Joseph  did  receive  these 
plates  from  the  angel  Moroni.  He  went  to  help  Joseph  translate  the 
sacred  record,  and  in  a  revelation  that  God  gave  to  the  Prophet,  he 
told  Oliver  that  he  had  heard  his  prayers  on  that  night;  therefore 
Oliver  knew  that  Joseph  was  a  prophet,  and  that  the  work  was  true, 
because  no  one  but  himself  and  God  knew  that  he  had  prayed  for  di- 
vine guidance  in  this  matter. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


45 


The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  given  to  those  who  are  worthy  of  it, 
and  by  that  Spirit,  as  the  Book  of  Mormon  says,  we  may  know  the 
truth  of  all  things.  The  Latter-day  Saints  have  an  anointing  of  the 
Holy  One,  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  this  gift  and  guide  makes 
it  necessary  that  they  be  taught  of  men  in  things  pertaining  to  God. 

As  we  have  been  told,  this  afternoon,  by  President  Penrose,  "Truth 
is  knowledge  of  things  as  they  are  and  as  they  were,  and'  as  they 
are  to  come."  This  truth  embraces  every  principle  of  the  gospel. 
Joseph  sought  unto  the  Father  and  the  glorious  results  are  manifest. 
Elijah,  in  the  power  of  his  Priesthood,  gave  to  the  prophet  the  keys 
of  salvation  for  the  dead. 

"An  angel  from  on  high, 
The  long,  long  silence  broke, 
Descending  from  the  sky, 
These  gracious  words  he  spoke; 
Lo,  in  Cumorah's  lonely  hill 
A  sacred  record  lies  concealed. 

"It  speaks  of  Joseph's  seed, 
And  makes  the  remnant  known, 
Of  nations  long  since  dead, 
Who  once  had  dwelt  alone. 
The  fulness  of  the  gospel,  too, 
Its  pages  will  reveal  to  view." 

So  the  sacred  Nephite  record  came  forth,  another  witness  to 
the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Moses  came  and  restored  the 
keys  of  the  gathering  unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  behold  the 
miraculous  development  of  the  gathering  in  all  the  earth,  especially 
the  gathering  of  the  Jews,  and  the  events  that  are  making  that  great 
movement  certain  and  near  of  accomplishment. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  the  knowledge,  in  this  Church, 
that  will  enable  every  man  and  woman  to  secure  salvation.  We  are 
told  by  the  Apostle  John :  "Beloved,  believe  not  every  spirit,  but  try 
the  spirits  whether  they  are  of  God,  because  many  false  prophets  are 
gone  out  into  the  world.  Hereby  know  ye  the  Spirit  of  God :  Every 
spirit  that  confesseth  that  Jesus  Christ  is  come  in  the  flesh  is  of  God: 
and  every  spirit  that  confesseth  not  that  Jesus  Christ  is  come  in  the 
flesh  is  not  of  God :  and  this  is  that  spirit  of  anti-Christ." 

With  some  sects  a  belief  in  the  divinity  of  Christ  is  not  required. 
Spiritualism,  particularly,  aims  to  destroy  belief  in  the  doctrine  of 
the  essentiality  of  the  atoning  blood  of  Jesus  Christ.  But  the  gospel 
teaches  the  divinity  of  Christ.  It  testifies  that  he  is  the  Redeemer, 
the  Son  of  God. 

The  Apostle  Paul  says :  "Blessed  be  the  God  and  Father  of  our 
Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  who  hath  blessed  us  with  all  spiritual  blessings  in 
heavenly  places  in  Christ."  And  so  I  testify  unto  you,  that  in  the 
gospel,  in  the  Church,  is  every  blessing  and  ordinace  to  be  found 
which  will  bring  forth  eternal  happiness  and  joy  in  the  kingdom  of 
God. 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord, 
Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excellent  word. 
What  more  can  he  say.  than  to  you  he  hath  said, 
You  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have  fled? 

I  hear  my  testimony  that  Jesus  lives;  that  he  is  the  Christ,  the 
Sou  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world;  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophel  of  Hod,  and  that  the  men  who  have  stood  at  the  head  of 
this  Church,  and  who  now  stand  at  the  head  of  this,  God's  Church, 
as  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators,  arc  wise  shepherds,  faithful  leaders, 
fathers  to  the  people  and  to  all  mankind  who  will  listen  to  their  in- 
structions. 1  hear  this  testimony  humbly,  in  the  fear  of  God,  and  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem.  "The  Lord  Victorious"  (Mascagni), 
with  great  beauty  and  effect,  calling  forth  much  commendation  for 
the  leader  and  members  of  the  chorus. 

Conference  adjourned,  until  Monday  morning  at  10  o'clock.  Ben- 
ediction was  pronounced  by  Elder  William  L.  Rich,  President  of  the 
Bear  Lake  stake  of  Zion. 


FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  at  10  a.  m.,  Sunday  morning,  April  4,  presided  over  by 
Elder  Richard  R.  Lyman,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

The  singing  was  furnished  by  the  Ogden  Tabernacle  Choir,  Pro- 
fessor Joseph  E.  Ballantyne,  conductor. 

The  choir  song,  "Come  Unto  Me,"  solo,  by  Agnes  Warner. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Antone  Christensen. 

The  choir  sang,  "O,  Love  Divine,"  solo  by  Mildred  Ware. 

ELDER  JAMES  DUCKWORTH 

(President  of  the  Blackfoot  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters.  I  feel  very  keenly  my  responsibility 
in  being  invited  to  make  a  few  remarks  to  this  splendid  body  of 
Latter-day  Saints ;  and  I  realize  that  without  the  assistance  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  it  will  be  impossible  for  me  to  discharge  acceptably 
to  the  Lord  this  great  responsibility.  I  therefore  crave  an  interest 
in  your  faith  and  prayers,  to  the  end  that  there  may  be  no  impediment 
whatever  in  the  enjoyment  of  that  Spirit  today,  to  which  we  are  en- 
titled on  all  such  occasions,  and  that  always  leads  and  guides  into  all 
truth. 

I  have  been  profoundly  impressed  by  the  large  attendance,  not 
only  in  this  building  but  in  the  larger  tabernacle,  in  spite  of  the  in- 
clemency of  the  weather,  and  I  have  been  asking  myself  the  ques- 


ELDER  JAMES  DUCKWORTH 


47 


tion,  What  does  this  mean,  that  so  many  people  are  gathered  from  far 
and  near  upon  these  grounds?  I  call  to  mind  that  which  you  no 
doubt  have  already  thought  of,  that  it  is  one  hundred  years  ago,  this 
spring,  since  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  received  that  wonderful  mani- 
festation of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  at  which  time  the  great  Latter- 
day  work  was  ushered  in.  He  was  blessed  more  than  any  other 
man  that  we  have  knowledge  of  in  seeing  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
both  personally  before  him,  one  of  whom,  the  Son,  told  him  in  reply 
to  his  query,  that  none  of  the  sects  of  the  earth  then  extant  were  right ; 
and  he  became  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  establish- 
ing the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  not 
all  privileged  to  enjoy  the  same  manifestation  which  he  enjoyed,  but 
through  the  establishment  of  that  work,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
there  has  been  placed  within  the  reach  of  all  of  our  Father's  children, 
a  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  that  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  was  instrumental  in  establishing  upon  the  earth ;  and  I  have 
been  thinking  seriously  of  that  phase  of  the  great  Latter-day  work. 

The  question  has  been  raised  in  outside  quarters,  what  is  it  that 
holds  the  Latter-day  Saints  together?  What  is  it  that  gives  strength 
and  stability  to  "Mormonism?"  Because,  contrary  to  the  expectation 
of  those  who  hope  for  the  failure  and  the  downfall  of  the  latter-day 
work,  with  the  growing  years  and  the  advancement  of  time,  it  seems 
to  gather  in  strength  and  stability  with  promise  of  perpetuity  for  all 
time. 

I  recall  an  incident  in  the  life  of  the  Savior,  familiar  to  all  of 
you,  found  in  the  16th  chapter  of  the  Gospel  according  to  St.  Mat- 
thew, which  reads: 

When  Jesus  came  into  the  coasts  of  Caesarea  Philippi,  he  asked  his 
disciples,  saying,  Whom  do  men  say  that  I,  the  Son  of  man,  am?  And  they 
said,  Some  say  that  thou  art  John  the  Baptist;  some,  Elias;  and  others, 
Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets.  He  saith  unto  them,  But  whom  say 
ye  that  I  am?  And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said,  Thou  art  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God.  And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him.  Blessed 
art  thou,  Simon  Barjona,  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto 
thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  And  I  say  unto  thee,  That  thou 
art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my  Church;  and  the  gates  of 
hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it. 

As  it  was  in  those  days,  so  it  is  in  these  days,  flesh  and  blood 
cannot  reveal  unto  men  and  women  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the 
personality  of  the  Lord  Jesus  .Christ,  or  of  the  existence  of  God  our 
Eternal  Father  and  a  knowledge  of  his  character  and  attributes.  Men, 
by  human  learning  and  human  seeking,  cannot  find  out  these  things 
which  pertain  to  divinity.  There  is  a  way  provided,  however,  in  the 
divine  providence  of  the  Father  whereby  men  may  come  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth,  and  know  these  things  for  themselves,  and  that 
way  is  open  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  to  all  men  and  women.  Flesh 
and  blood  cannot  give  to  men  and  women  a  knowledge  of  the  divine 
mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith ;  man-wisdom  alone  cannot  bring 
that  knowledge  to  our  Father's  children.  But  there  is  a  way  provided 
whereby  a  knowledge  of  that  great  truth  can  be  brought  within  the 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


reach  of  every  man  and  woman,  and  that  way  is  pointed  out  in  .the 
incident  to  which  I  have  called  attention :  "Blessed  art  thou,  Simon 
Barjona,  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  this  unto  thee,  but 
my  Father  which  is  in  heaven."  He  is  my  Father  in  heaven,  and  if 
we  will  do  right  today,  he  is  just  as  willing-  to  bless  us  with  the  knowl- 
edge of  his  divinity  as  he  was  willing  to  bless  the  Apostle  Peter  with 
a  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  Savior. 

So,  in  answer  to  the  query,  wherein  does  the  strength  of  "Mor- 
monism"  lie?  my  answer  would  be  this,  that  it  lies  in  the  individual 
testimony  that  is  given  to  all  Latter-day  Saints  who  will  honestly  and 
prayerfully  and  righteously  live  for  that  same  divine  testimony.  That 
testimony  does  not  depend  upon  our  learning,  nor  upon  our  education. 
That  testimony  does  not  depend  upon  family  relationship  nor  worldly 
possessions.  It  depends  upon  conditions  that  every  man  and  woman 
can  comply  with.  If  we  will  exercise  faith  in  God  the  eternal  Father, 
if  we  will  repent  in  all  sincerity  of  our  shortcomings  and  our  trans- 
gressions, if  we  will  go  down  into  the  waters  and  receive  baptism 
by  immersion,  by  one  having  authority,  for  the  remission  of  our  sins; 
if  we  then  shall  receive  the  imposition  of  hands  for  the  reception 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  live  in  such  a  way  that  his  influence  shall  be 
with  us  and  abide  with  us,  we  shall  know  for  ourselves  whether  or  not 
this  work  is  of  God  the  eternal  Father,  and  whether  the  Savior  has 
spoken  in  divine  right,  and  is  indeed  the  Savior  of  the  world ;  and  no 
power  of  man  can  take  this  knowledge  from  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  may  know  these  things  for  ourselves,  and  we  are  not  dependent 
upon  any  other  man  or  any  other  men  in  all  the  world  for  a  knowl- 
edge  of  these  things  ;  and  if  there  is  one  thing  that  we  should  prize 
above  another,  it  is  that  testimony  which  our  heavenly  Father  has 
promised  unto  us.  We  need  it;  we  are  not  safe  without  it,  in  this 
day  of  contending  creeds  and  conflicting  opinions,  with  reference  to 
matters  religious.  It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  that  our  feet  should 
be  planted  upon  a  foundation  that  cannot  be  moved,  that  is  safe  and 
solid  beyond  all  question;  and  that  is  the  foundation  of  this  great 
Latter-day  work,  that  is  the  foundation  upon  which  your  faith  and 
mine  is  placed,  and  until  it  rests  upon  that  foundation  it  is 
not  secure.  It  is  given  unto  every  man  and  every  woman  and  to  every 
boy  and  girl,  for  the  Lord  is  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  "in  every 
nation  he  that  feareth  him  and  worketh  righteousness,  is  accepted  with 
him."  Thus,  when  our  elders  go  into  .the  nations  of  the  earth,  they 
make  the  promise  to  all  nations,  that  that  testimony  is  within  the 
reach  of  our  Father's  children;  and  in  our  testimony  meetings,  as 
they  are  held  throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  Zion,  the  Saints 
from  England,  from  Scotland,  from  Belgium,  from  any  and  every 
other  part  of  the  world  in  which  the  gospel  has  been  preached,  bear 
record  of  the  same  truth,  that  in  the  land  from  which  they  came  the 
Holy  Ghost  is  enjoyed  by  those  who  have  accepted  the  truth.  They 
all  bear  the  same  testimony  of  the  goodness  of  God  to  them'  in  o-rving 
to  them  a  knowledge  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  the  divinity  of  the  great  Latter-day  work  that  he  was  in- 


ELDER  JAMES  DUCKWORTH 


49 


strumental  in  initiating  upon  the  earth.  And  so  long-  as  we  enjoy 
that  testimony  we  shall  never  be  led  astray;  for  this  is  God's  work, 
it  is  not  the  work  of  man.  It  is  the  work  of  the  Almighty,  and  he 
will  take  care  of  it,  and  it  will  never  fall,  no  matter  what  its  enemies 
may  hope  and  pray  to  the  contrary. 

Upon  another  occasion,  the  Savior  was  confronted  with  a  de- 
fection in  the  ranks  of  those  who  had  been  his  professed  believers, 
and  turning  to  the  Twelve,  he  said  to  them,  "And  will  ye  also  go 
away?"  And  Peter,  that  same  apostle  that  was  so  impetuous  on  all 
occasions,  said,  "Lord,  to  whom  shall  we  go?  thou  hast  the  words 
'of  eternal  life."  So  it  is  today.  Outside  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  where  shall  we  go?  For  in  this  work 
is  found  the  words  of  eternal  life,  for  it  is  indeed  the  work  of  God, 
and  it  has  to  deal  with  everything  that  is  essential  to  the  growth  and 
the  happiness  of  our  Father's  children,  in  temporalities  as  well  as 
spiritualities,  for  the  Lord  is  interested  in  all  that  concerns  your  hap- 
piness and  mine.  He  is  our  Father  in  very  deed,  and  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  his  work  upon  the  earth  in  these  days  he  has  in  mind 
not  only  the  spiritual  welfare  of  his  children,  but  also  their  temporal 
welfare ;  and  through  his  servants  from  time  to  time  he  gives  unto 
us  his  mind  and  will. 

And  here  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  the  character  of  his  ser- 
vants as  they  have  been  placed  in  the  Church  in  the  past,  and  as  they 
exist  in  the  Church  today.  I  know  that  these  men  are  men  of  God. 
I  know  that  they  give  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  the  revelations  of 
the  Lord,  the  mind  and  will  of  God,  the  Father,  and  that  in  so 
far  as  we  will  abide  by  the  counsels  which  they  are  inspired  to  give 
unto  us  from  time  to  time  we  shall  be  continually  in  the  path  of 
eternal  life;  that  we  shall  enjoy  real  happiness  in  this  life  and  pre- 
pare ourselves  for  that  which  is  greater  in  the  life  to  come.  I  do 
not  know  of  the  divinity  of  the  Latter-day  work  by  what  any  man 
has  said  to  me ;  but  I  know  as  I  live  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God,  and  that  his  successors  in  the  presidency 
have  been  and  are  prophets  of  the  living  God,  for  the  inspiration  of  the 
Almighty  has  given  into  my  soul  that  knowledge,  to  my  complete 
and  absolute  satisfaction.  I  pray  the  Lord  that  he  will  bless  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  that  he  will  help  us  to  be  true  to  the  opportunities 
we  enjoy,  that  his  Spirit  will  ever  be  with  us  through-  our  lives,  and 
that  in  the  end  we  will  all  receive  that  welcome  plaudit,  "Well  done, 
thou  good  and  faithful  servant,  enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord," 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Ogden  tabernacle  choir  sang :  "Lead,  Kindly  Light." 

ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

(Executive  Director  of  the  Y.  M  .M.  I.  A.) 

It  is  certainly  an  inspiration  to  look  out  upon  this  great  sea  of 
faces.    I  sincerely  trust  that  God  will  bless  me  with  his  Holy  Spirit 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


for  the  few  minutes  that  I  address  you,  and  that  you  in  turn  may 
know  what  I  am  talking  about. 

The  great  teacher,  Karl  G.  Maeser,  said :  "It  is  not  what  is 
said  so  much  that  counts,  but  how  it  is  received."  It  is  how  you  re- 
ceive what  shall  be  spoken  here  this  morning,  and  what  has  been 
spoken,  not  so  much  the  words,  but  how  they  are  received,  and  how 
they  pour  virtue  into  our  lives,  that  counts. 

I  want  to  make  an  appeal  for  the  people  that  are  dearest  and  nearest 
to  your  hearts,  the  boys  and  girls  of  this  Church.  This  wonderful 
story  has  come  from  the  great  world  war:  When  the  Hun  came 
knocking  at  the  gates  of  Belgium,  and  tore  into  that  wonderfully  for- 
tified city  of  Liege,  the  word  went  rapidly  out  to  France,  that  every 
Frenchmen  must  take  his  gun  and  hurry  to  defend  his  fatherland. 
There  was  no  time  to  go  to  training  camps ;  there  was  no  time  to  go 
to  splendid  places  like  our  boys  have  had  an  opportunity  to  go  to,  and 
study  for  a  time  and  prepare  themselves.  But  every  Frenchman  must 
take  his  gun  at  once  and  hurry  to  the  front.  Away  down  in  Southern 
France,  a  father  met  this  call,  said  good-bye  to  his  wife,  Marie,  and 
his  only  boy,  a  lad  of  16  years,  Noal ;  The  Hun  came  tearing  on 
through  Northern  France,  until  finally  he  had  driven  the  armies  to 
the  river  Marne.  Then  there  arose  that  great  leader  Joffre,  who 
spoke  these  wonderfully  inspiring  words,  "They  shall  not  pass !"  And 
every  Frenchman's  heart  was  thrilled,  and  each  was  determined  that 
he  would  give  his  last  drop  of  blood,  if  need  be,  to  hold  that  land. 
In  the  midst  of  this  terrible  conflict,  this  father,  with  many  other 
fathers,  fell.  The  line  was  held,  the  great  battle  was  over,  and  when 
this  father  came  from  the  hospital  his  ami  was  gone,  and  through 
his  body  bullets  had  torn  a  terrible  hole.  He  went  back  to  his  humble 
home  in  Southern  France.  At  the  gate  he  met  his  wife,  Marie,  in 
tears,  and  yet  they  resolved  that  they  would  fight  anew. 

And  then  the  father  said,  "Yes,  but  where  is  Noal,  where  is 
Noal!" 

And  the  mother  replied :  "O,  when  you  went  away  he  became  a 
law  unto  himself.  He  would  not  listen  to  me.  He  went  off  into  the 
city ;  he  spent  the  money,  and  there  he  is  now,  in  the  hospital,  the 
result  of  his  sin  and  riotous  living." 

Then  that  French  father  said  these  wonderful  words:  "My  God, 
what  have  I  been  fighting  for?" 

What  did  50,000  American  men  give  their  lives  for,  and  millions 
in  Flander's  field,  and  thousands  of  them,  of  our  splendid  American 
youth?  For  something  that  we  call  liberty?  For  something  that 
we  call  the  privilege  of  men  to  go  and  come,  a  statute  on  a  book,  a 
written  page,  the  understanding  of  nations?  It  was  for  the  youth. 
It  was  for  them  we  bled,  for  whom  the  world  indeed  bled  and  suf- 
fered; your  boys  and  your  girls.  Who  shall  reap  that  harvest  of 
peace  and  progress  which  God  has  in  store  for  this  world,  in  years 
that  are  before  us,  in  the  preparation  for  his  personal  coming  to  reign 
as  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords?  That  day  is  coming,  and  there 
is  a  marvelous  day  preceding  it,  the  day  of  preparation.    There  is  not 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


51 


a  man  or  a  woman  in  this  audience  today  but  who  would  give  help 
in  this  important  preparation,  and  the  help  is  just  so  simple:  it  is  just 
taking  care  of  the  boy  that  you  are  going  to  meet  when  you  go  back 
home,  and  the  girl  that  you  are  going  to  meet  there.  And  if  every 
father  might  get  it  deep  into  his  heart,  the  absolute  necessity  of  know- 
ing where  they  are  and  what  they  are  doing,  he'll  make  a  real  contri- 
bution, not  only  to  the  honor  of  his  name  but  to  the  citizenship  of  this 
splendid  Church  and  Nation  of  ours. 

Now,  I  am  very  much  interested  in  some  definite  programs  that 
have  been  prepared  for  the  boy  scout  work,  that  this  uniform  repre- 
sents, for  I  happen  to  be  the  representative  of  some  couple  of  thousands 
of  boys  in  Salt  Lake  City  as  well  as  in  other  parts.  An  excellent  pro- 
gram!  Have  you  got  it  in  your  wards?  Do  your  boys  follow  that 
program  ?  A  person  told  me  the  other  evening  that  the  program  of 
seeking  out  boy  scouts  increased  the  efficiency  of  priesthood  quorums 
in  his  ward ;  it  had  meant  an  increased  attendance  from  4  to  48 ;  that  it 
had  increased  attendance  at  Sunday  schools ;  that  it  made  a  real  contri- 
bution not  only  to  the  boys  themselves  but  to  the  great  work  of  the 
Church  and  its  auxiliaries.  It  may  be  said  by  some  bishops:  "We  do  not 
want  any  scouting  among  our  boys ;  our  boys  are  well  enough."  Well, 
these  bishops  do  not  understand.  We  called  at  a  meeting  where  the  boys 
of-  such  a  bishop  were,  and,  they  were  tearing  up  the  benches.  He,  in 
his  despair  cried,  "Sit  down !"  This  good  old  bishop,  after  what  he 
said  about  not  wanting  this  program,  finally  planted  a  number  of 
those  boys  down  on  a  bench.  I  took  a  rope  out  of  my  pocket,  and  tied 
a  knot,  and  I  said,  "Can  you  tie  that  knot?"  And  one  rough  fellow 
said,  "Ah,  nuts!  What  are  you  going  to  do?"  and  never  took  any 
interest  in  it!  I  took  no  notice  of  it,  but  tied  another  knot,  a  more 
complicated  one.  And  then  another  fellow  said,  "Can  you  tie  that 
again?"  I  said,  "Sure."  And  I  got  another  piece  of  rope.  It  wasn't 
two  minutes  until  every  boy  was  so  quiet  you  could  hear  the  old  clock 
tick  upon  the  wall,  and  the  bishop  was  just  as  anxious  as  he  could  be 
to  get  hold  of  a  piece  of  rope  himself! 

Yes,  we  cannot  just  say,  "Be  good,"  to  Johnny  and  Mary:  we 
must  think  out  many  things  for  them  to  do.  The  busy  boy  is  an  in- 
terested boy,  he  is  a  safe  boy.  We  have  had  800  of  them  up  at  the 
University  of  Utah  this  week.  -My,  you  should  have  seen  them,  as 
they  went  to  the  swim,  and  how  they  were  taught  to  save  life.  They 
enjoyed  these  things  as  many,  many  boys  do  now  in  this  Church.  One 
boy  in  Arizona  dug  his  father  from  under  a  load  of  hay,  and  taught 
him  a  better  method  of  respiration,  and  when  a  doctor  came,  and  saw 
what  the  boy  had  done;  he  said,  "You  have  saved  the  life  of  that 
man,  your  father,  my  boy."  Their  hearts  were  all  bent  on  doing 
that  type  of  thing. 

You  say,  the  youth  of  the  land  are  becoming  wayward ;  the  girls 
go  out  in  automobiles  in  the  summer  time,  and  many  of  them  fall,  and 
the  boys  are  a  law  unto  themselves.  Let  me  say  this,  in  all  the  sin- 
cerity of  my  soul,  that  it  is  not  "Lost,  a  Boy,"  but  "Lost,  a  Leader." 
The  responsibility  is  ours ;  it  belongs  to  us ;  and  when  God  opens  the 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


book  of  life  we  will  be  astonished  and  surprised  to  know  that  our  hearts 
were  bent  on  things  that  we  thought  were  bigger,  and  we  left  undone 
and  uncared  for  the  greatest  responsibility  that  God  gave  us,  the 
keeping  of  our  children. 

May  God  help  us  to  remember  when  we  look  into  their  faces  that 
they  are  ours,  that  God  gives  them  to  us  not  only  to  clothe  and  to 
school  and  to  discipline  as  we  meet  them  at  the  table,  perhaps,  but  they 
are  ours  to  walk  with,  ours  to  play  with ;  they  are  ours  to  pray  with, 
is  my  humble  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  S.  NORMAN  LEE 

(President  of  the  Box  Elder  Stake  of  Zion.) 

I  think  it  very  fitting,  at  this  time,  to  refer  to  the  resurrection  of 
the  Savior ;  in  fact,  to  the  atonement ;  and  I  wish  to  express  myself 
concerning  the  fitness  of  these  very  modest  decorations  upon  the  stand. 
I  had  forgotten  all  about  this  being  Easter — it  was  snowing  outside- - 
and  I  saw  these  flowers ;  that  reminded  me  of  the  great  work  done  in 
the  meridian  of  time  for  the  human  family,  the  light  of  which  has 
reflected  even  unto  our  day.  I  have  no  notion  of  saying  very  much 
about  the  atonement  at  the  present  time,  except  to  use  it  as  an  intro- 
duction to  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  through  the  medium  and  in- 
strumentality of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

I  remember  very  well  the  story  of  the  interest  the  Prophet  took 
in  the  propaganda  of  various  religious  denominations  in  the  vicinity  of 
his  home  town,  when  he  was  a  boy  about  14  years  of  age,  and  the 
concern  that  he  felt  about  allying  himself  with  one  sect  or  another. 
And  I  recall  very  particularly  the  words  of  the  Savior  to  him  at  the 
time  of  the  vision  in  the  sacred  grove,  that  he  was  to  join  none  of  the 
sects  in  the  world  at  that  time,  because  they  observed  only  a  form 
of  godliness ;  that  they  drew  near  unto  him  with  their  lips  but  their 
hearts  were  far  from  him. 

I  have  heard  one  of  the  authorities  of  the  Church  in  this  day 
remark  that  we  do  not  say  prayers.  Now,  I  think  perhaps  that  he  was 
anxious  to  impress  upon  us  the  futility  of  words ;  that  if  we  observe 
to  speak  our  prayers  only,  we  are  as  the  people  in  that  day,  who  drew 
near  unto  the  Lord  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  were  far  from  him. 
What  this  brother  desired  to  impress  upon  us  is  that  prayers  come 
from  the  heart,  and  are  acted  out.  This  lesson  has  remained  with  me, 
but  I  do  not  think  that  it  excludes  the  utterance  of  the  fulness  of  the 
heart  because  there  is  a  danger  of  forgetting  the  Lord,  except  with 
our  mouths.  I  think  that  the  utterance  of  the  prayers  that  are  in  our 
hearts  should  not  be  excluded  for  that  reason.  I  regard  prayer  as 
one  of  the  most  important  observances  of  the  people  of  the  Lord,  and 
I  cannot  understand,  after  twenty-five  years  as  a  servant  of  the 
Lord  in  active  service,  how  Latter-day  Saints  can  be  content  to  go 
about  their  daily  duties  without  the  expression  of  the  fulness  of  their 
hearts  in  prayer.    I  cannot  understand  how  people  expect  to  make 


ELDER  S.  NORMAN  LEE 


53 


any  progress  in  this  Church  without  prayer,  which  is  the  key  to  the 
Father's  heart. 

In  Box  Elder  we  are  detached  from  the  busy  world,  which  the 
people  in  the  center  stakes  of  Zion-  are  subjected  to,  and  I  think  we 
live  a  simpler  life.  I  believe  we  live  a  more  simple  life  than  that 
which  I  discover  in  my  visits  to  the  larger  cities  of  Salt  Lake  and 
Ogden.    We  are  more  simple  as  a  rule  in  our  dress — with  some  few 
exceptions.    Of  course,  we  have  imitators  among  us,  just  the  same 
as  we  have  imitators  everywhere ;  and  some  of  them  make  monkeys 
of  themselves  in  trying  to  imitate,  because  that  is  the  particular  function 
of  a  monkey  or  an  ape.    So  those  who  do  that  do  not  imitate,  exactly. 
Our  stake  numbers  about  seven  thousand.    We  are  mostly  farmers 
and  fruit  growers.   We  talk  simply  to  one  another  and  directly.  When 
I  have  occasion  to  say  to  a  bishop  in  the  stake  that  he  is  not  doing  quite 
what  he  is  required  to  do,  I  say  to. him:    "Bishop,  you  are  not  toeing 
the  mark,  you  are  not  up  to  the  scratch,"  instead  of  saying,  "Bishop, 
we  have  a  great  work  to  perform  in  the  Church.    We  require  all  of 
the  force  available.    We  must  all  work  together,  and  do  the  very 
best  we  can.    Now,  you  are  doing  splendidly  in  this  ward.    You  are 
a  very  fine  bishop.    The  people  love  you,  and  the  authorities  of  the 
Church  love  you ;  but  now,  bishop,  in  this  department  here,  there  is 
something  that  is  not  quite  right.  I  do  not  suppose  you  are  to  blame 
for  it,  it  probably  has  escaped  your  notice,"  etc.    We  do  not  do  that 
sort  of  thing  up  there.  Although  I  am  a  very  young  man  comparatively, 
I  say,  "Bishop,  buck  up,  and  see  that  that  thing  is  attended  to."  And 
we  said  to  one  a  short  time  ago,  "Now,  bishop,  we  expect  you  to  bear 
the  responsibility  of  the  progress  of  your  ward,  and  we  do  not  expect 
you  to  come  to  us  and  complain  about  any  officer  you  have  in  your 
ward.    That  is  your  business,  do  not  bother  us  with  it.    But  we  hold 
you  directly  accountable."   Well,  at  first  some  of  our  bishops  said,  "Do 
not  come  and  interfere  with  any  of  our  meetings,  if  you  are  going 
to  hold  us  responsible.  Do  not  bring  speakers  of  the  general  author- 
ities, especially  on  a  night  when  our  officers  are  supposed  to  be  at- 
tending to  that  we  are  responsible  for,  and  thereby  interrupt  things 
for  which  we  are  responsible  in  our  ward." 

Now,  I  am  just  endeavoring  to  get  at  a  point  I  wish  to  make  in 
reference  to  prayer.  I  probably  have  gone  a  long  way  around  to  it ; 
whereas,  my  habit  is  to  go  directly  to  the  point.  But  I  believe  in  the 
simplicity  of  the  utterance  of  the  prayer  that  is  in  our  hearts.  I  do 
no  think  we  need  deal -with  the  Lord  in  forms  of  generality.  I  think 
the  Lord  understands  what  is  in  our  hearts.  In  fact,  the  scriptures 
say  so.  He  understands  what  we  need  before  we  ask  it,  but  he  requires 
that  we  ask  for  the  things  that  we  need,  and  therein  lies  a  line  of 
development.  We  learn  to  know  thereby  the  things  that  are  good 
for  us,  and  that  are  not  good  for  us.  We  learn  to  draw  near  unto  the 
Lord,  and  also  learn  what  would  estrange  us  from  the  Lord  and  erect 
a  barrier  between  us  and  him. 

And  so  in  our  teachings  in  the  Box  Elder  stake,  we  have  directed 
our  people  to  be  quite  simple  in  their  expressions  and  utterances  of 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


what  is  in  their  hearts ;  and,  to  set  an  example  to  the  stake,  the  presi- 
dency do  that.  And  when  something  com.es  up  regarding  the  conduct 
of  some  one  in  the  Church — say  a  high  councilor,  or  bishop, — be- 
cause that  makes  the  matter  more  effective,  they  being  more  promi- 
nent than  others — when  one  of  them  becomes  hard  to  control,  or  in- 
sists upon  doing  something  he  should  not  do,  we  go  before  the  Lord 
and  say:  "Father,  help  us  that  we  may  be  able  to  reach  that  man, 
and  set  him  right.  He  is  wrong,  we  know  that.  But  in  our  wisdom 
and  intelligence  and  ability,  we  are  unable  to  set  him  right.  We  have 
tried  it,  and  we  have  not  been  able  to  succeed.  Now,  Father,  we  would 
like  to  have  you  help  us  in  this  matter.  It  is  not  a  matter  of  selfish- 
ness;  it  is  a  matter  of  the  welfare  of  the  Church.  We  do  not  desire 
to  be  set  up  before  the  people  as  great  men.  We  want  to  be  known 
among  thy  people  here  in  this  stake  where  we  live  as  the  most  ser- 
viceable and  democratic  of  all.  Now,  Father,  if  you  will  help  us 
do  this,  we  shall  do  all  that  we  can  do." 

And  then,  instead  of  waiting  for  a  miraculous  manifestation  in 
answer  to  that  prayer,  we  use  all  the  judgment  that  the  Lord  has 
blessed  us  with,  and  we  go  about  our  work,  and  the  testimony  that  T 
want  to  bear  is  that  it  has.  resulted  in  good.  We  do  not  wait  until 
we  are  urged,  but  we  go  ahead  and  use  our  intelligence  and  the  wis- 
dom God  has  blessed  us  with,  but  we  do  not  wish  to  use  that  intelli- 
gence independently  of  the  Lord.    That  is  the  point  I  wish  to  make. 

Now,  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  simple.  The  Savior  used  simplicity 
in  prayer.  One  of  the  things  that  I  think  has  discouraged  young  peo- 
ple in  reference  to  prayer  is  that  in  our  wards  we  find  almost  half  of 
our  people  who  do  not  observe  family  prayer.  A  few  years  ago  it  was 
thought  an  achievement  to  be  eloquent  in  prayer,  to  repeat  high  plati- 
tudes, something  that  had  been  memorable  in  the  Church,  and  it  took 
a  long  while  to  use  these  things,  and  the  young  people  grew  tired.  I  re- 
member in  a  family  I  belonged  to  that  I  dreaded  to  have  a  certain 
one  called  upon  to  be  "mouth"  at  prayers  in  the  morning,  because  I 
was  very  sure  to  be  tired,  and  by  the  time  it  was  over  I  would  per- 
haps be  found  sitting  upon  the  floor  instead  of  kneeling.  One  thing 
T  admire  is  simplicity  in  prayer.  Indeed,  I  think  it  is  very  necessary. 
I  do  not  understand  how  parents  can  expect  to  have  the  influence  over 
their  children  that  they  should  have  if  they  do  not-  engage  in  family 
prayers.  Now,  I  am  not  authorized  to  speak  authoritatively  upon  this 
point,  because  we  are  advised  not  to  shout  until  we  are  safely  out  of 
danger.  My  family  is  just  growing  up,  but  they  have  grown  up  far 
enough  so  that  I  know,  that  without  family  prayers  I  should  have 
lost  much  of  the  grip  upon  them  that  I  have.  I  know  there  is  a  way 
to  prevent  young  people  from  breaking  away,  and  even  if  they  should 
get  loose,  there  is  a  way  whereby  one  may  regain  control  of  his  chil- 
dren, through  the  medium  of  prayer.  I  have  seen  many  incipient 
quarrels  nipped  in  the  bud,  or  quarrels  stopped  after  they  had  begun, 
by  the  family  prayer  in  the  morning  or  in  the  evening ;  and  ill  feel- 
ings in  the  family  have  been  stopped,  and  not  been  started  again,  be- 
cause who  can  fall  down  and  direct  a  prayer  to  the  Lord  with  hard 


ELDER  S.  NORMAN  LEE 


55 


feelings  in  his  heart?  His  heart  may  feel  s'ore  and  hard  when  he 
kneels  down,  but  those  feelings  are  sure  to  be  banished,  and  he  is 
sure  to  displace  those  feelings  by  the  feeling  that  he  is  in  communion 
with  his  Father  in  heaven. 

I  wish  I  could  preach  this  sermon  on  prayer  to  the  Saints 
everywhere,  that  men  might  be  induced  to  turn  from  their  careless- 
ness and  enter  seriously  into  this  form  of  devotion  which  has  been 
established  in  the  Church.  I  have  written  of  it  for  many  years  past, 
in  an  ordinary  newspaper.  I  have  written  of  it  in  Church  periodicals 
where  I  have  had  an  opportunity,  because  it  is  close  to  my  heart.  I 
believe  with  all  my  soul  in  the  effectiveness  of  sincere,  simple 
prayer,  and  I  believe  after  three  years  of  experience  in  the  Box  Elder 
stake,  that  we  can  go  into  any  part  of  the  stake  and  receive  evidence 
there,  beyond  question,  of  the  loyalty  arid  faithfulness  of  the  Saints. 
That  is  a  testimony  to  me  that  our  prayers  have  been  answered,  be- 
cause we  never  attempt  to  pray  before  the  Saints  without  having 
prepared  ourselves  -through  the  medium  of  prayer.  And  we  do  not 
think  prayer  alone  is  sufficient. 

The  Lord  has  said,  Take  no  thought  what  ye  shall  say,  for  it  shall 
be  given  unto  you  in  the  very  hour  what  we  shall  say;  but  lay  up 
continually  the  words  of  life  that  you  may  have  something  to  draw 
upon. 

I  wish  to  say,  in  conclusion,  that  there  is  .not  anything  that  I  de- 
sire for  myself  that  I  do  not  desire  for  every  member  of  this  Church, 
and  for  that  matter,  for  every  member  of  the  human  family.  I  have 
spent  some  years  in  carrying  the  message  of  truth  to  those  who 
sit  in  darkness.  I  have  seen  some  of  the  fruits  of  my  labors,  and 
there  would  be  nothing  dearer  to  me  than  to  spend  all  my  days  in 
preaching  the  truth  to  those  who  are  ready  to  receive  it.  May  that 
spirit  take  hold  of  this  people,  because,  in  my  opinion,  there  is  going  to 
be  such  a  call  for  missionaries  as  the  Church  has  never  experienced 
before,  and  we  are  going  to  be  sent  into  every  part  of  the  world.  A 
great  many  of  us  are  going  to  know  the  truth  of  the  work  from  actual 
experience,  and  a  great  many  are  going  to  suffer  one  way  and  an- 
other for  the  testimony  of  the  truth ;  and  I  am  preaching  to  the  people 
to  make  reservations  for  a  few  years  to  be  devoted  to  the  work  of  the 
ministry  among  those  who  are  in  darkness ;  and  may  God  bless  this 
people  and  all  who  are  active  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir,  with  Myrtle  Higley  and  Mildred  Ware,  sang,  "Now 
Jesus  Loved  Martha  and  her  Sister  and  Lazarus." 

ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  JACK 

(President  of  the  Cassia  Stake  of  Zion) 

This  conference  marks  the  90th  year  since  the  organization  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  feel  very  happy 
to  be  present  and  partake  of  the  spirit  that  is  always  present  with 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Latter-day  Saints  when  they  assemble  together  for  the  purpose 
of  being-  instructed  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

I  have  listened  with  very  much  interest  to  the  remarks  of  the 
previous  speakers,  and  see  in  them  very  much  food  for  reflection,  and 
they  should  be  a  means  of  valuable  suggestion  to  all  present  that  have 
listened  to  them. 

This  passage  of  scripture  came  to  my  mind  while  Elder  Kirkham 
was  addressing  us  upon  the  importance  of  our  boys  and  our  girls, 
"What  doth  it  profit  a  man,  though  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world, 
and  lose  his  own  soul,  and  what  shall  a  man  give  in  exchange  for  his 
soul?"  This  sentence  was  uttered  by  the  Redeemer,  after  he  had 
ima'dse  a  survey  qf  the  conditions  then  existing  in  the  world,  and  I 
think,  looking  down  the  stream  of  time  to  the  age  in  which  we  live, 
and  viewing  ambitions  and  aspirations,  aims,  and  means  and  ways 
adopted  by  the  children  of  men  for  the  accumulation  of  wealth,  real- 
izing that  where  their  treasure  is  shall  their  hearts  be  also,  this  sent- 
ence comes  to  us  not  only  as  an  interrogation,  but  it  comes  as  a  very 
strong  warning.  It  comes  to  us  bearing  with  it  its  own  answer.  There 
is  no  person  who  can  read  that  sentence,  and  not  receive  the  answer 
in  the  same  spirit  in  which  the  question  is  written ;  and  the  thought 
that  came  to  my  mind  in  this  connection  was  with  reference  to  us  as 
parents  in  Israel — what  shall  it  profit  us,  though  we  gain  honor,  re- 
nown, popularity,  and  place,  and  means  to  gratify  our  vain  ambitions, 
and  lose  our  sons  and  our  daughters?  And  what  shall  we  give  in 
exchange  for  their  souls  ? 

The  Lord  has  told  us  in  one  of  the  revelations  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  that  the  responsibility  of  the  early  training  of  the  boys 
and  girls  rests  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents;  and  that  if  we  fail  in 
that  responsibility,  and  our  children  should  go  astray  later  on  in  life, 
the  condemnation  will  be  ours.  I  think  that  is  an  inevitable,  definite 
law.  I  remember  the  remarks  made  by  our  Father  in  heaven  to  Enoch, 
when  he  told  him  of  his  work  and  of  his  desires,  they  were  summed 
up  in  a  very  few  words,  the  work  that  the  Lord  had  gone  to  in  the' 
firmament  and  in  beautifying  the  earth,  in  making  the  trees  to  grow 
and  providing  grain  for  food  and  means  for  the  manufacture  of  wear- 
ing apparel  of  the  people,  and  all  that  we  wish  and  have  around  about 
us..  The  Lord  in  forming  all  these,  and  in  creating  man,  placing  him 
on  the  earth,  and  giving  him  laws,  commandments  and  precepts,  made 
a  history  of  the  past  that  is  a  great  criterion  for  man  to  follow.  It  re- 
solved itself  into  these  words:  "This  is  my  work  and  my  glory,  to 
bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  the  eternal  life  of  man."  Now,  I  take 
it  from  that  sentence  that  all  this  that  the  Lord  is  doing  and  all  that 
he  has  so  far  accomplished  in  the  earth,  in  the  great  fall,  in  the  bring- 
ing to  pass  of  the  immortality  and  the  eternal  life  of  man,  that  the 
plan  would  be  a  failure,  be  fruitless  indeed,  and  esteemed  for  naught, 
if  parents  do  not  do  their  duty.  I  see  parents  who,  when  their  chil- 
dren become  a  little  reckless,  get  hold  of  the  false  spirit  that  every- 
thing is  natural.  I  think  it  has  come  to  us  in  an  old  tale,  from 
away  back  in  the  mystic  history  of  the  early  days  of  Greece.  When 


ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  JACK 


57 


Hercules  was  a  boy,  just  reaching  the  period  of  life  when  there  was 
a  question  in  his  mind  which  path  he  should  pursue,  he  went  forth 
by  himself,  and  sat  down  and  meditated.  There  came  to  him  the 
temptation  pictured  to  us  in  the  form  of  a  beautiful  young  woman. 
She  came  to  him  and  said,  "Hercules,  I  know  what  you  want ;  the  path 
that  I  will  point  out  to  you  will  bring  pleasure,  will  bring  you  con- 
stant place  in  society,  will  bring  the  choice  things  of  life,  to  eat  and 
to  drink  and  clothing  to  wear,  and  you  shall  be  popular  in  the  society 
in  which  you  shall  move,  arid  your  whole  life  will  be  one  constant 
round  of  pleasure."  But  he  said  to  her,  "What  is  your  name?"  And  in 
reply,  she  said,  "My  enemies  call  me  vice,  but  my  friends  call  me 
pleasure."  Then  there  appeared  to  him  another  beautiful  woman,  and 
she  said  to  Hercules,  "I  shall  not  deceive  you ;  the  path  that  I  shall 
point  out  to  you  will  be  a  path  of  labor,  a  path  of  toil,  a  path  of  self- 
sacrifice,  a  path  in  which  you  will  have  to  devote  a  great  deal  of  your 
effort  and  energy;  you  will  have  to  forget  yourself;  you  will  have  to 
serve  your  friends ;  you  will  have  to  serve  the  people  of  Greece ;  but 
if  you  will  take  this  path  and  pursue  it,  although  it  may  bring  to  you 
much  sweat  and  toil  and  much  privation  and  many  self-sacrifices,  you 
shall  become  immortal."  Then  he  said,  "What  is  your  name?"  She 
replied,  "My  name  is  duty." 

Now,  I  think  this  same  spirit  comes  into  the  lives  of  many  of 
our  boys  and  girls  during  the  age  of  adolescence ;  so  I  say,  when  par- 
ents see  a  disposition  among  the  young  people  to  go  their  own  way, 
to  do  as  they  please,  as  they  express  it,  parents  should  not  give  them 
the  lines,  so  to  speak,  relinquish  to  them  all  of  their  parental  care, 
and  permit  the  boys,  like  a  wild  team,  to  run  away.  I  wonder  how 
many  of  our  fathers,  when  they  have  a  team  which  tries  to  run  away, 
let  loose  the  lines  and  let  them  go.  Not  many.  I  think  our  common 
sense  would  suggest  the  importance  of  taking  a  similar  course  to  pre- 
vent the  running  astray  of  some  of  our  boys.  I  have  always  believed 
that  if  our  parents  are  honest  in  their  religion ;  if  they  have  their  con- 
science in  the  work  that  they  are  doing,  and  if  they  will  go  before  the 
Lord,  as  has  been  stated  here  by  President  Lee,  in  constant  supplica- 
tion ;  though  their  sons  and  daughters  may  go  wild  and  recreant 
for  a  time,  the  Lord  will  always  bring  themi  back,  and  will  save 
them.  If  we  have  taken  our  part  in  teaching  them  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  and  in  training  them  in  the  ways  they  should  go,  I  believe 
that  the  Lord  will  take  hold  and  help  us  by  his  divine  power,  and 
will  bring  them  back ;  and  our  glory  will  be  materially  increased  in 
the  future.  If  we  are  successful  in  this  life,  it  seems  to  me,  in  the  rear- 
ing of  an  honorable  family  of  boys  and  girls,  men  and  women  who 
are  instruments  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  helping  to  bring  about 
his  work,  and  helping  to  bring  about  his  purposes  in  the  earth,  that 
will  be  accounted  successful.  Our  success  will  not  be  counted  by  our 
public  show  or  our  popularity  among  men,  but  there  is  more  in  the  fact 
of  the  proper  rearing  of  families,  the  exercising  of  a  righteous  and 
wholesome  influence  all  our  lives  upon  those  who  are  round  about  us, 
that  our  lives  may  radiate  the  spirit  and  the  impression  that  will 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


make  the  young  people  better  men  and  women  in  the  future  than  they 
have  been  in  the  past,  and  will  be  a  credit  to  us  in  the  future. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the  truth  and  in  the  opportunity  that 
has  been  given  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  live  acceptable  lives  before 
the  Lord.  If  we  are  successful  in  this,  and  especially  during  these 
times  through  which  we  are  passing,  I  believe  that  the  few  words  ex- 
pressed through  the  Prophet  Daniel,  by  the  Lord,  after  the  Lord  had 
shown  him  the  great  vision  of  war  and  turmoil  that  were  coming  into 
the  world  and  through  which  we  are  passing  at  the  present  time,  will 
apply.  He  makes  this  simple  statement,  conveying  a  volume  of  thought 
to  ever  -  Latter-day  Saint,  that  those  who  are  faithful  during 
these  times  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  shall  shine  with  the  bright- 
ness of  the  firmament,  while  those  who  turn  many  to  righteousness 
shall  shine  as  the  stars  for  ever  and  ever. 

May  we  devote  our  lives  to  this  work  that  these  blessings  may 
come  to  us,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Earth  and  Heaven." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Charles  B.  Stewart. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  at 
2  o'clock  p.  m. 

President  Rudger  Clawson  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Pre- 
sided. 

The  Ogden  Tabernacle  Choir,  Joseph  Ballantyne,  conductor,  fur- 
nished the  music  which  was  entirely  from  C.  W.  Whitney's  work,  "The 
First  Christmas." 

The  choir  sang,  "As  the  Earth  Brings  Forth  Her  Bud." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Rodney  C.  Badger. 

The  choir  and  quintet  sang,  "I  Will  Greatly  Rejoice  in  the 
Lord." 

ELDER  SERGE  BALLIF 

(President  of  the  Cache  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  in  standing  before  this  congre- 
gation, I  feel  very  humble  and  weak,  and  I  sincerely  desire  that  I 
may  have  your  sympathy,  and  that  I  may  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  direct  me  in  the  few  remarks  that  I  make  this  afternoon. 

My  heart  is  full  of  thanksgiving  to  our  heavenly  Father  for  the 
membership  which  I  have  in  this  Church.  I  prize  it  above  all  other 
things.  I  am  thankful  for  the  Priesthood  which  I  have  received,  for 
the  blessings  and  the  unspeakable  joy  that  it  has  brought  to  my  soul. 

It  was  indeed  a  great  manifestation  and  blessing  to  me  this  morn- 
ing to  hear  our  President  sound  the  key-note  of  our  conference.  I 


ELDER  SERGE  BALLIF  59 

.1 

felt  that  he  was  inspired  of  the  Lord  in  his  remarks,  and  the  testi- 
mony came  to  my  soul  that  he  is  indeed  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  that 
the  mantle  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  F.  Smith  has  fallen  upon  him.  That 
is  burning  in  my  bosom.  This  is  my  testimony,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  know  that  he  is  a  prophet  of  God. 

It  is  a  great  joy  to  the  world  when  we  announce  that  it  is  one 
hundred  years  since  the  appearance  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  There  has  never  been  a  time  in  my  life  since 
my  father  told  me  of  the  occurrence  that  I  have  had  any  doubt  in  my 
soul  that  the  Prophet  saw  the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  that  he  heard 
the  Father  say  to  him  "Joseph,  this  is  my  beloved  Son ;  hear  him."  And 
indeed  he  had  a  message  to  deliver  to  that  youthful  person  who  so 
soon  became  the  Prophet  of  the  .Lord. 

In  my  experience  in  traveling  in  different  parts  of  the  world,  I 
have  often  thought  of  the  words,  "They  are  all  wrong,  they  worship 
me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are  far  from  me ;  they  teach  for 
doctrine  the  commandments  of  men."  I  have  many  times  testified 
before  congregations  of  the  world  to  this  wonderful  statement ;  and 
I  have  often  thought,  I  wonder  what  the  people  think,  what  these  great 
so-called  Christian  nations  think,  when  we  stand  before  them  and 
make  that  statement.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  has  been  my  priv- 
ilege to  bear  my  testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith  in  England,  in  Belgium,  in  France,  in  Switzerland,  in  all 
the  provinces  of  Germany,  and  in  Denmark,  Norway,  and  Sweden,  and 
my  heart  has  been  aglow  with  joy  and  satisfaction  unspeakable  when 
I  have  had  the  privilege  of  bearing  this  testimony  to  the  people. 

I  remember  when  on  my  first  mission,  in  1890,  I  was  called  to 
Switzerland,  and  was  going  from  house  to  house  without  money  and 
without  price,  and  bearing  my  testimony  to  the  people,  I  was  once 
about  to  go  into  a  large  house,  the  owner  of  which  must  have  been 
a  very  wealthy  man,  and  he  met  me  at  the  door.  He  did  not  invite 
me  in,  but  in  my  humble  way  I  bore  my  testimony  to  him  of  the  di- 
vine mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  of  the  gospel  being 
restored  in  its  fulness;  and  I  preached  to  him  the  principles  of*  faith, 
repentance  and  baptism,  and  I  will  never  forget  the  reply  that  he 
made  to  me.  "My  dear  boy,"  he  said,  "I  admire  you  for  your  courage, 
but  your  doctrine  I  cannot  accept." 

Not  very  long  ago  I  read  a  letter  from  one  of  my  old  friends  in 
the  city  of  Vienna,  capital  of  Austria.  This  man  was  in  one  of  the 
high  schools  of  Vienna  when  I  was  there  on  my  mission,  I  remember ; 
and  he  related  to  me  in  that  letter  the  condition  that  exists  in  that 
land  at  the  present  time.  He  said,  "Brother  Baliff,  it  is  not  as  it  was 
when  you  were  here.  When  we  go  along  the  main  thoroughfares 
and  the  places,  or  gardens,  in  Vienna,  we  see  mothers  with  infants 
in  their  arms  starving,  they  are  so  much  in  want  of  bread  to  keep  life 
in  the  souls  of  their  little  ones,  and  hundreds  and  thousands  of  people, 
women  and  children,  are  dying  for  the  want  of  food  and  clothing  to 
keep  them  warm."  I  thought  to  myself,  I  wonder  how  many  of  those 
people  who  are  in  that  condition  today  heard  the  elders  bear  their 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


testimony  to  them  in  days  gone  by.  I  believe  that  those  people  who 
did  hear  those  testimonies,  and  who  are  now  suffering  those  terrible 
privations  and  hardships,  are  touched  in  their  feelings,  and  that  their 
hearts  are  filled  with  remorse  because  they  turned  away  from  that  hum- 
ble message  of  life  and  salvation. 

I  often  feel,  too,  many  times  in  looking  over  the  congregations 
of  the  Saints,  and  I  ask  myself  the  question:  Do  we  appreciate  the 
blessings  that  we  enjoy  in  this  land  of  plenty?  O  how  kind  and 
merciful  the  Lord  has  been  to  us.  We  have  plenty;  we  have  to  spare. 
And  sometimes  I  wonder,  in  our  times  of  plenty,  if  we  remember 
the  Lord  as  we  should  do. 

In  our  stake,  the  Cache  stake  of  Zion,  last  year  we  paid  the 
largest  tithing  that  has  been  known  in  the  history  of  the  stake.  But, 
in  looking  over  the  records,  examining  our  conditions,  examining 
myself  and  my  friends,  I  ask  myself  the  question,  Are  we  paying  a 
tithing?  And  I  want  to  say,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not  want 
to  judge  Israel,  but  I  believe  that  many  of  us  have  forgotten  the 
Lord  and  the  great  blessings  that  he  has  poured  out  upon  us,  and 
do  not  remember  how  he  has  blessed  this  land,  how  he  has  made  this 
land  indeed  prosperous,  has  blessed  the  soil  so  that  it  produces  in  its 
richness.  We  came  into  this  barren  land,  and  it  is  now  teeming  with 
wealth.  The  Lord  has  blessed  us  in  all  our  outgoings  and  incom- 
ings. But  I  ask  today,  how  many  of  our  sons  and  daughters  remem- 
ber the  Lord?  How  many  of  them,  night  and  morning,  call  their 
little  families  about  the  family  altar  and  offer  up  thanksgiving  and 
praise  to  God  the  eternal  Father  for  the  blessings  of  health  and 
strength  and  for  the  things  that  have  come  into  their  homes.  I  am 
afraid,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are  not  grateful  enough  for 
all  of  these  things.  I  believe  that  we  ought  to  be  more  prayerful  and 
more  humble,  that  our  children,  the  greatest  gifts  and  blessings  that 
we  could  have  come  into  our  homes,  have  been  given  to  us.  But 
what  a  responsibility  there  is  in  every  home,  to  care  for  and  train 
and  properly  rear  those  children  that  God  has  blessed  us  with.  What 
a  great  responsibility  in  training  those  young  men  and  women  that 
when  they  grow  to  the  age  of  understanding  they  may  indeed  be 
representatives  of  the  pioneer  families. 

I  was  thinking  last  evening,  in  reading  the  account  of  the  Relief 
Society  conference,  that  in  that  vast  gathering  there  were  only  four 
who  had  seen  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Today  the  witnesses  who 
have  seen  and  known  the  Prophet  Joseph  are  getting  rare,  and  the 
time  will  soon  come  when  we  will  not  have  these  living  testimonies 
from  men  and  women  who  can  stand  up  and  bear  testimony  that 
they  have  seen  and  heard  the  Prophet  Joseph.  Do  we  appreciate  the 
testimonies  of  these  living  witnesses  of  the  divine  mission  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith?  I  hope  and  trust  that  it  will  grow  into  our 
souls,  and  be  burned  into  the  souls  of  the  children  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  the  testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  also  the  testimony  of  those  who  have  come  after  them. 

I  want  to  bear  testimony  that  I  knew  the  Prophet  Brigham 


ELDER  SERGE  BALLIF 


61 


Young.  I  heard  his  voice,  I  heard  his  testimony;  and  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  testified  to  me  that  he  was  indeed  a  prophet  of  the  Lord, 
and  so  it  is  with  all  of  his  successors,  and  I  am  thankful  in  my 
heart  to  God,  my  heavenly  Father,  that  he  raised  up  these  mighty 
men.  And  when  I  look  upon  this  great  congregation  that  gather  to- 
gether in  our  conferences,  I  think  of  the  many  millions  of  people  who 
have  heard  the  testimony  of  the  gospel,  and  many  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands have  embraced  the  gospel,  and  a  wonderful  work  has  been 
wrought  in  this  one  hundred  years.  There  is  nothing  recorded  in 
history  to  compare  with  the  .marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  that  has 
been  accomplished  since  the  Father  and  his  Son  appeared  unto  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  being  with  you  today  and 
partaking  of  the  spirit  of  this  conference;  and  I  pray  that  the  Lord 
may  help  us  all,  that  we  may  live  better  lives,  and  appreciate  more 
highly  the  great  blessings  that  come  through  obedience  to  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  humble  and  true  to  our  covenants, 
is  my  prayer,  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Quartet  and  choir  sang,  "Blessed  Be  the  Lord  God  of  Israel." 

ELDER  URIAH  G.  MILLER 

(President  of  the  Cottonwood  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  not  accustomed  to.  standing  before 
a  congregation  of  this  magnitude,  and  I  am  confident,  if  you 
knew  just  exactly  how  I  feel  at  this  particular  time,  that  in  your 
hearts  would  be  a  prayer  that  the  weight  of  the  load  might  be  lifted, 
and  that  for  the  short  time  that  I  stand  before  you  I  may  be  blessed 
with  the  spirit  of  this  office  and  calling.  I  recognize  the  fact  that  peo- 
ple are  gathered  together  from  all  parts  of  the  Church  for  the  pur- 
pose of  attending  the  general  conference  of  the  Church,  and  that  they 
are  desirous  of  hearing  from  the  authorities  of  the  Church ;  and  in- 
asmuch as  I  have  been  asked  along  with  some  other  brethren  to  oc- 
cupy a  portion  of  the  time  on  this  occasion,  I  hope  and  trust  that  the 
Lord  will  be  merciful  and  will  bless  me  with  the  spirit  of  liberty. 

I  believe  that  we  have  all  enjoyed  the  meetings  thus  far.  We  have 
been  particularly  taken  up  with  the  most  splendid  singing  that  we 
have  heard.  Many  of  us,  possibly,  have  never  before  had  the  privilege 
of  hearing  the  Ogden  choir.  We  have  heard  of  it ;  and  we  have  heard 
many  very  fine  things  from  this  most  splendid  musical  organization 
today. 

I  want  to  read  to  you  a  passage  of  scripture,  and  if  I  say  nothing 
more  than  to  read  this  passage  of  scripture  I  trust  that  it  will  be 
to  our  value.  Recorded  in  the  8th  chapter  of  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles 
is  some  history  of  the  ancient  Church,  that  deals  with  the  persecutions 
that  came  upon  the  Saints.   It  was  about  or  soon  after  the  time  when 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

J 

Stephen  was  stoned  to  death.  Evidently,  from  the  reading  of  the 
Bible,  a  great  deal  of  persecution  was  organized  against  the  Church 
at  that  particular  time.  The  people  were  scattered  from  one  part 
of  the  country  to  the  other,  out  from  Jerusalem.  The  brethren,  in 
whatever  direction  they  went,  were  preaching  Christ  and  him  cruci- 
fied unto  the  people  with  whom  they  came  in  contact.  And  Philip, 
one  of  the  authorized  servants  of  the  Lord,  went  into  Samaria,  and 
preached  the  gospel  unto  the  people  of  Samaria.  Many  of  them  be- 
lieved on  his  words,  and  the  apostles  evidently  were  at  Jerusalem  or 
thereabout,  and  through  some  means  or  other  they  learned  of  this, 
and  here  we  read:  "Now  when  the  apostles  which  were  at  Jerusa- 
lem heard  that  Samaria  had  received  the  word  of  God,  they  sent 
unto  them  Peter  and  John,  who,  when  they  were  come  down,  prayed 
for  them  that  they  might  receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  for  as  yet  he  was 
fallen  upon  none  of  them,  only  they  were  baptized  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus.  Then  laid  they  their  hands  upon  them,  and  they  re- 
ceived the  Holy  Ghost."  It  is  the  latter  part  of  these  verses  that  I 
desire  to  draw  attention  to  at  this  time,  that  part  which  deals  with 
the  conferring  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  There  are  many  beautiful  things 
in  these  few  passages  of  scripture.  The  question  of  authority,  with 
other  things,  is  recorded,  but  you  know  I  have  in  mind  more  than 
any  other  one  item  the  question  of  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
As  a  religious  organization,  we  believe  in  God,  the  Father,  and  in  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost.  We  believe  that  there  is 
only  one  authorized  way  by  which  the  Holy  Ghost  can  be  conferred 
upon  mankind.  That  is  through  the  ordinance  of  the  lay- 
ing on  of  hands.  We  believe  in  the  laying  on  of  hands  as  one  of 
the  ordinances  Of  the  gospel ;  and  when  the  Church  came  into  exist- 
ence, following  that  great  and  mighty  vision  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  about  one  hundred  years  ago,  when  the  heavens  were  opened 
and  the  Father  and  the  Son  made  their  appearance  unto  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  and  answered  the  petition  of  his  humble  heart ;  from  that 
start  grew  the  Church.  In  the  Church  came  the  ordinances  of  the 
gospel.  Among  these  is  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

Religious  history  bears  out,  it  seems  to  me,  the  evident  fact  that, 
in  all  of  God's  dealings  with  the  children  of  men  in  the  various  gen- 
erations of  the  world,  when  one  member  of  the  Godhead  is  upon 
the  earth  ministering  generally  among  mankind,  another  one  is  taken 
away  from  the  earth.  It  was  altogether  possible,  no  doubt  was  true, 
when  Christ  was  upon  the  earth  that  he  at  times  was  visited  by  the 
Father,  and  that  when  he  went  down  into  the  river  Jordan  and  was 
baptized  by  John  the  Baptist,  the  Holy  Ghost  descended  upon  him 
in  the  form  of  a  dove.  We  are  told  also  in  this  sacred  writing,  that 
John  the  Baptist  had  in  his  soul  the  Holy  Ghost  from  his  mother's 
womb.  Yet  we  find  this  rather  startling  declaration  recorded  in  the 
TSible,  in  the  16th  chapter  of  John  and  7th  verse,  "Nevertheless,  I 
tell  you  the  truth,  it  is  expedient  that  I  go  away,  for  if  I  go  not  away, 
the  Comforter  will  not  come  unto  you.  But  if  I  depart,  I  will  send 
him  unto  you."  Christ,  one  of  the  members  of  the  Godhead,  was  upon 


ELDER  URIAH  G.  MILLER 


63 


the  earth.  While  he  was  here,  that  passage  of  scripture  would  rather 
give  us  to  understand,  that  the  ministry7  of  the  Holy  Ghost  was  not 
universal  among  the  members  of  the  Church.  It  was  necessary  that 
Christ  should  go,  and  when  he  went  another  member  of  the  God- 
head would  descend  and  come  and  minister  unto  mankind.  My  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  we  are  living  in  that  day  and  age  of  God's  dealings 
with  the  children  of  men  when  one  personage  of  the  Godhead,  the 
Holy  Ghost,  is  ministering  among  the  children  of  men;  and  I  often 
wonder  in  our  work  in  the  Church,  in  our  ministrations  among  the 
people,  if  we  do  not  look  for  really  too  marvelous  things,  if,  when  we 
kneel  down  to  pray,  we  do  not  really  expect  that  the  heavens  are  going 
to  be  opened  and  some  divine  personage  is  going  to  come  unto  us 
and  deliver  unto  us  the  message  that  our  souls  are  craving. 

I  desire  to  read  to  you  a  passage  or  two  from  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  dealing  with  the  ministry  and  the  mission  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  These  passages  of  scripture  are  what  came  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  in  behalf  of  Oliver  Cowdery.  They  were  given 
one  year  before  the  Church  was  organized,  yet  they  carry  with  them 
that  wonderful  message,  that  the  Holy  Ghost  is  not  only  for  Oliver 
Cowdery  but  for  every  member  of  the  Church.  It  is  recorded  in  the 
6th  section,  commencing  with  the  20th  verse : 

Behold,  thou  art  Oliver,  and  I  have  spoken  unto  thee  because  of  thy 
desires;  therefore  treasure  up  these  words  in  thy  heart.  Be  faithful  and  dili- 
gent in  keeping  the  commandments  of  God,  and  I  will  encircle  thee  in  the 
arms  of  my  love.  Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  I  am 
the  same  that  came  unto  my  own,  and  my  own  received  me  not.  I  am  the 
light  which  shineth  in  darkness,  and  the  darkness  comprehendeth  it  not. 
Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  if  you  desire  a  further  witness,  cast  yom 
mind  upon  the  night  that  you  cried  unto  me  in  your  heart,  that  you  might 
know  concerning  the  truth  of  these  things.  Did  I  not  speak  peace  to 
your  mind  concerning  the  matter?  What  greater  witness  can  you  have 
than  from  God? 

In  the  8th  section,  second  verse,  these  words  were  recorded : 

Yea,  behold,  I  will  tell  you  in  your  mind  and  in  your  heart,  by  the 
Holy  Ghost,  which  shall  come  upon  you  and  which  shall  dwell  in  your 
heart.  Now,  behold,  this  is  the  Spirit  of  revelation;  behold,  this  is  the 
Spirit  by  which  Moses  brought  the  children  of  Israel  through  the  Red  Sea 
on  dry  ground. 

We  might  read  other  passages  of  scripture,  if  we  bad  time,  show- 
ing the  principle,  that  the  Holy  Ghost  will  dwell  upon  us,  be  in  our 
hearts,  to  give  us  peace,  contentment,  revelation,  and  those  things  that 
will  lead  us  to  Godliness. 

I  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  God's  blessings  upon  the  people 
and  members  of  the  Church,  that  we  may  be  true  to  every  covenant 
that  we  have  made,  that  the  Spirit  and  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may 
rest  upon  us,  and  the  blessings  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  may  be 
with  us  as  a  witness  of  this  work,  which  I  testify  to  you  is  true,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

AFTER  ONE  HUNDRED  YEARS. 

In  the  year  1820,  Joseph  Smith  had  his  first  vision.  After  one 
hundred  years,  what  do  we  see?  We  behold  a  great  and  a  mighty 
people  in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains,  organized  into  a  Church 
and  founded  upon  principles  and  doctrines  which  he  set  forth.  We 
behold  a  great  conference  of  the  Church  here  on  the  4th  day  of  April, 
1920,  and  the  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  gathered  together  until 
the  Great  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  overflowing,  the  Assembly  Hall  is 
crowded  to  its  utmost  limit,  and  another  overflow  meeting  is  now 
in  session  upon  this  block,  while  hundreds  have  been  turned  away 
from  these  buildings  because  they  could  not  get  admission. 

THREE  PRECIOUS  VOLUMES. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  between  these  two  covers  I  now  hold  are 
three  precious  volumes.  They  are  books  that  are  most  precious  to  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  to  the  world  at  large. 
I  take  it  that  these  three  books  are  perhaps  as  desirable  and  precious 
as  any  three  volumes  in  the  world.  One  is  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
translated  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  giving  a  religious  history  of 
the  ancient  people  of  this  continent;  also  in  this  book  will  be  found 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness.  This  Book  of 
Mormon  is  attested  by  eleven  witnesses,  in  addition  to  the  Prophet  him- 
self who  brought  it  forth. 

The  book  that  follows  is  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  It  empha- 
sizes the  fact  that  the  channel  of  revelation  is  open  between  the  heavens 
and  the  earth,  a  channel  that  had  been  closed  for  at  least  1,800  years. 
Isn't  that  wonderful?  Isn't  that  impressive,  the  fact  that  that  chan- 
nel has  again  been  opened  ?  For,  as  a  mater  of  fact,  this  book  contains 
the  revelations  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  his  prophet  and  to  his 
Church.  How  blessed  are  this  people,  that  we  can  have  in  the  Church 
the  voioe  of  revelation. 

This  work  is  introduced  to  the  Church  and  to  the  world  by  -i 
most  powerful  preface.  I  will  just  read  a  line  or  two.  It  is  wonder- 
fully impressive.    It  emphasizes  divine  truth : 

Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  Church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who 
dwells  on  high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I  say,  hearken 
ye  people  from  afar,  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen  to- 
gether. For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none 
to  escape,  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not 
hear,  neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated. 

See  how  comprehensive  and  how  sweeping  is  this  statement, 
every  eye  shall  see  and  every  heart  throughout  the  world  shall  be 
penetrated  by  the  power  of  God.  • 

And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow,  for  their  in- 
iquities s'hall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be 
revealed.    And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


65 


of  my  disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days.  And  they  shall 
go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have  commanded  them. 
Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and  the  authority  of  my  servants,  and  my 
preface  unto  the  book  of  my  commandments,  which  I  have  given  them  to 
publish  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  (Doc.  and  Cov.  1:16.) 

The  whole  section  is  worthy  of  the  deepest  thought. 

And  now,  in  this  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  you  will  find, 
among  the  many  that  have  been  given,  a  mighty  revelation  upon  the 
authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood.  You  will  also  find  there  a  mighty 
revelation  with  respect  to  the  dead  and  the  temple  work,  and  a  mighty 
revelation  with  regard  to  the  great  principle  of  marriage,  and  other 
communications  from  the  heavens.    Oh,  is  it  not  marvelous  indeed ! 

The  next  ' book  is  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  which  is  composed 
of  writings,  narrations,  and  translations  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
In  this  book  you  will  find  a  record  entitled  the  Book  of  Moses,  show- 
ing how  great  was  the  light  and  truth  Jhat  was  shed  forth  from  God, 
and  the  dealings  of  God  with  his  children  and  the  doings  of  Moses 
and  also  of  Enoch,  who  lived  before  the  flood.  You  will  also  find 
there  the  Book  of  Abraham,  a  translation  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
which  has  brought  to  light  a  knowledge  of  great  things  concerning 
Abraham  and  his  authority  and  Priesthood,  and  the  revelation  of  God 
to  him  concerning  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  all  of  which  is  subject 
matter  for  deep  and  thoughtful  study.  And  you  will  further  find  a 
narration  by  the  Prophet  himself  of  the  First  Vision  referred  to.  He 
gives  an  account  of  it  in  simple  and  impressive  language.  It  is  beau- 
tiful; the  very  simplicity  of  it  is  beautiful  indeed.  That  communica- 
tion did  not  come  to  us  in  scientific  terms.  No,  it  does  not  need  to 
be  translated.  A  child  can  understand  the  story  of  that  First  Vision, 
it  is  so  simple  and  beautiful.  And  we  find  that  the  simplest  things  in 
the  world  often  turn  out  to  be  the  most  profound,  do  we  not?  I  think 
so.  Well,  you  could  hardly  put  a  price  on  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 
It  is  most  precious  indeed. 

And  what  a  revelation,  what  a  wonderful  combination  of  books 
under  one  cover.  If  that  were  the  only  book  of  the  kind  in  the  world 
and  it  was  in  my  possession,  dear  me,  I  would  not  part  with  it  upon 
any  consideration.  I  would  hold  on  to  it  as  I  would  hold  on  to  my 
soul.  I  would  eat  with  it  and  sleep  with  it,  and  have  it  with  me  at 
all  times.  But,  brethren  and  sisters,  you  have  this  book.  How  many 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  appreciate  these  great  standard  works  of  the 
Church?  How  many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  giving  them  study 
and  reflection?  We  are  commanded  to  search  out  wisdom  from  all 
good  books,  and  particularly  good  books  of  the  Church. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  has  always  been  to  me  as  interesting  as  a 
romance,  as  interesting  to  me  as  any  thrilling  story  that  I  have  ever 
read.  It  is  marvelous,  and  yet  in  connection  with  the  story  of  the 
people  of  the  Nephites  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  laid  before  us  in 
all  its  beauty  and  simplicity.  Well,  the  Lord  be  praised.  Surely  this 
is  "a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,"  is  it  not?  You  cannot  improve 
that  definition?  There  is  no  use  trying  to  elaborate  upon  it.   You  might 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


speak  for  a  month  about  "Mormonism,"  and  you  could  not  get  be- 
yond saying,  it  is  a  "marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,"  almost  beyond 
human  understanding  and  quite  beyond  full  explanation. 

Well,  blessed  be  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  the  living  prophet  to- 
day ;  and  blessed  be  the  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  now  after 
the  lapse  of  a  hundred  years  let  us  rejoice  together  in  the  knowledge 
and  testimony  of  these  things. 

APPRECIATION  OF  THE  OGDEN  TABERNACLE  CHOIR. 

Let  me  say,  in  conclusion,  and  I  think  very  likely  I  am  voicing 
the  feeling  of  the  entire  congregation,  when  I  say  it,  that  I  appreciate 
fully  the  effort  put  forth  here  by  the  Ogden  tabernacle  choir,  led  by 
Brother  Joseph  Ballantyne.  They  have  done  most  excellent  service 
today,  and  have  helped  to  make  this  meeting  a  splendid  success.  Of 
course,  our  meetings  are  always  successful  when  they  are  conducted 
under  the  direction  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  but  we  could  not  get  along 
without  the  singing.  We  must  have  good  singing.  We  must  have 
singing  that  is  tuneful,  we  must  have  singing  that  breathes  forth  the 
Spirit  of  God ;  we  must  have  singing  that  is  in  harmony.  And  in  the 
singing  today  we  have  had  perfect  harmony.  The  Lord  bless  the  Ogden 
tabernacle  choir,  and  may  he  bless  us  all,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  quartet,  Agnes  Warner  and  choir,  sang,  'T  Bring  You  Glad 
Tidings." 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON. 

(Assistant  Church  Historian) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  expected  by  those  who  have  ap- 
pointed me  to  address  this  meeting  to  give  an  outline  of  "Mormon- 
ism" for  one  hundred  years,  and  with  the  limited  time  at  my  command, 
I  can  only  expect  to  touch  the  very  high  spots,  in  order  to  make  my 
narrative  at  all  comprehensive  and  interesting. 

There  is  a  notable  similarity  between  some  of  the  events  of  the 
first  century  of  the  Christian  era  and  those  of  the  nineteenth  century. 
With  the  exception  of  the  experience,  which  Jesus,  when  twelve 
years  old,  had  with  the  Jewish  rabbis  in  Jerusalem,  we  know  next  to 
nothing  about  his  childhood  days.  Several  books  have  been  pub- 
lished dealing  with  Christ  as  a  child,  but  they  are  largely,  if  not  wholly, 
apocryphal,  and  consequently  more  or  less  unreliable.  No  great 
event  seems  to  have  taken  place  in  the  Savior's  life,  according  to  holy 
writ,  until  he  was  thirty  years  of  age,  when  he  was  baptized  by  John 
in  the  river  Jordan.  With  that  event  was  commenced  the  real  preach- 
ing of  the  gospel,  ushering  in  that  particular  dispensation  at  the  head 
of  which  stood  Christ  and  his  apostles.  Yet  we  are  safe  in  sur- 
mising that  from  the  time  the  Savior  was  twelve  years  old  until  he 
was  baptized  he  was  training  and  preparing  for  the  great  mission  be- 
fore him. 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


67 


So  also  with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who  was  born  in  the  be- 
ginning of  the  nineteenth  century.  Nothing  of  importance  seems  to 
have  occurred  in  his  life,  until  he  was  between  fourteen  and  fifteen 
years  old.  Born  in  Vermont  he  moved  with  his  parents  when  ten  years 
of  age  to  western  New  York,  where  he  resided  in  1820,  one  hundred 
years  ago,  and  where  he  received  the  glorious  vision  which  may  con- 
sistently be  termed  the  very  beginning  of  the  new  dispensation.  The 
following  ten  years  were  years  of  preparation,  and  during  that  time 
Joseph  was  visited  by  the  angel  Moroni  a  number  of  times,  received 
the  plates  from  which  he  translated  the  Book  of  Mormon  into  the 
English  language,  was  visited  by  John  the  Baptist,  who  confirmed 
upon  him  and  Oliver  Cowdery  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  later 
visited  by  Peter,  James  and  John  who  confirmed  upon  him  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood.  Unfortunately  we  do  not  know  the  exact  date 
on  which  the  latter  event  took  plaoe,  nor  have  we  been  able  to  es- 
tablish the  exact  day  or  days  upon  which  the  Three  Witnesses  and 
the  Eight  Witnesses  to  the  Book  of  Mormon  saw  and  handled  the  plates 
and  attached  their  signatures  to  the  testimonies  which  are  recorded 
at  the  beginning  of  that  sacred  record ;  but  we  are  safe  in  saying  that 
these  important  events  took  place  in  1829.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
being  published  as  early  as  March,  1830,  the  printing  must  have  been 
commenced  in  1829.  We  are  able  to  state  positively  that  the  Book  of 
Mormon  was  published  early  in  1830,  because  the  Historian's  office 
has  secured  a  copy  of  an  old  newspaper  published  in  Palmyra,  New 
York,  which  announces  the  Book  of  Mormon  for  sale  as  early  as 
March,  1830. 

While  I  am  speaking  about  the  Book  of  Mormon,  I  may  say  that 
after  the  first  edition  of  5,000  copies,  printed  by  Egbert  Grandin, 
in  Palmyra,  New  York,  a  great  many  other  editions  have  been  pub- 
lished of  the  book,  both  in  America  and  in  England ;  and  besides  being 
thus  published  in  the  English  language  on  the  two  hemispheres  the 
book  has  been  translated  and  published  in  the  Danish,  the  French,  the 
German,  the  Italian,  the  Welsh,  the  Hawaiian,  the  Swedish,  the  Span- 
ish, the  Maori,  the  Dutch,  the  Tahitian,  the  Turkish  and  the  Japan- 
ese languages,  fourteen  foreign  languages  in  all. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  organized 
on  the  6th  of  April,  1830.  With  the  Priesthood  conferred,  and  in 
possession  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  contains  the  fulness  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  Joseph  Smith  became  an  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  the  Lord  to  establish  once  more  upon  the  earth  a  true 
Christian  Church,  according  to  the  divine  order,  and  also  in  accord- 
ance with  the  laws  of  the  State  of  New  York. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  before  the  end  of  the  year  1830 
missionaries  of  the  Church  had  traveled  1300  miles  westward  from 
the  place  of  organization,  and  to  the  Atlantic  coast  in  the  other  di- 
rection. The  gospel  was  also  preached  during  the  fall  of  1830,  and 
the  winter  of  1830-1831  to  several  tribes  of  Lamanites  or  Indians, 
some  of  them  beyond  the  western  boundary  of  the  United  States,  as 
it  was  then  (now  the  western  part  of  the  State  of  Missouri).  Many 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


people  were  converted  and  perhaps  200  persons  had  joined  the  Church 
by  baptism  before  the  close  of  1830.  Also  a  number  of  miraculous 
interpositions  of  the  power  of  God  took  place  right  in  the  beginning. 
In  fact,  nearly  all  the  gifts  of  the  Church  were  manifested  in  that 
first  year,  including  the  gift  of  healing,  prophecy,  etc. 

In  the  year  1831  the  Church  grew  rapidly,  not  only  in  the  east, 
but  also  in  the  western  land;  and  we  also  find  that  the  first  attempt 
at  colonization  on  the  part  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  took  place  that 
year.  When  the  Church  was  only  15  months  old,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
and  others  traveled  about  thirteen  hundred  miles  from  Fayette,  N.  Y., 
to  Jackson  county,  Missouri,  where  they  founded  a  prosperous  colony. 
They  set  up,  among  other  things,  a  printing  press  and  published  a 
periodical,  120  miles  further  west  than  any  other  paper  in  the  United 
States.  This  publication,  commenced  in  June,  1832,  was  the  first 
periodical  of  the  Church.  It  was  called  the  Evening  and  Morning  Star. 
After  that  followed  the  Messenger  and  Advocate,  then  the  Elders 
Journal,  next  the  Times  and  Seasons,  the  Millennial  Star,  the  Nauvoo 
Neighbor,  the  Frontier  Guardian,  etc.,  and  at  length,  commencing  with 
June,  1850,  the  Dcseret  News,  which  is  the  present  organ  of  the 
Church. 

In  1832,  also,  a  dreadful  tragedy  took  place  in  the  town  of  Hiram, 
Ohio,  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  tarred  and  feathered  and  left 
for  dead,  and  the  life  of  a  little  child,  adopted  by  the  Prophet  and 
his  wife  Emma,  was  sacrificed  through  exposure  on  account  of  mob 
violence.  Soon  after  this  event  the  Prophet  Joseph  made  a  second 
visit  to  Missouri  to  bless  and  encourage  the  Saints  who  were  gather- 
ing in  Jackson  county.  His  first  visit  to  that  State  had  been  made  by 
him  in  the  summer  of  1831,  on  which  occasion  the  land  of  Zion  was 
dedicated  for  the  gathering  of  the  Saints  and  the  site  of  a  temple  se- 
lected and  dedicated. 

In  1833  a  mob  arose  in  Jackson  county,  Missouri,  and  drove  the 
Saints,  now  numbering  about  twelve  hundred  souls,  away  from  their 
homes,  having  previously  destroyed  the  printing  office  and  other 
property.  In  that  year  also  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  was 
organized,  Sidney  Rigdon  and  Frederick  G.  Williams  being  ordained 
and  set  apart  as  counselors  to  the  Prophet  Joseph.  This  was  the  be- 
ginning of  the  First  Presidency  as  it  still  exists. 

After  the  expulsion  from  Jackson  county  most  of  the  Saints 
settled  temporarily  across  the  Missouri  river  in  Clay  county,  Mis- 
souri, where  they  made  their  second  attempt  at  colonizing  and  were 
again  successful.  In  the  meantime  the  Saints  also  made  a  success  at 
colonization  in  Kirtland,  Ohio,  where  they  commenced  the  erection 
of  a  Temple  in  1833,  and  changed  an  insignificant  village  into  a  town 
of  2,000  people.   The  Temple  built  there  still  stands. 

In  1834  another  remarkable  event  took  place  in  the  history  of  the 
Church.  The  Saints,  who  had  been  driven  from  Jackson  county, 
needed  assistance  and  the  Lord  called  the  young  men  of  the  Church 
in  the  Eastern  States  to  go  to  their  relief.  Hence  the  organization  of 
Zion's  Camp  (numbering  over  two  hundred  persons)  which,  led  by  Jo- 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


69 


seph  Smith  in  person,  marched  1,000  miles  to  Missouri,  taking  their 
lives  in  their  hands,  prepared  to  sacrifice  their  all  in  the  interest  of  their 
persecuted  brethren  and  sisters,  who  had  been  so  barbarously  treated 
by  the  Jackson  county  mob.  But  the  Lord  did  not  allow  this  little 
army  to  enter  into  a  physical  encounter  with  the  mob.  In  the  famous 
revelation  given  on  Fishing  river  in  June,  1834,  the  Lord  said  that 
he  had  brought  these  young  men  that  far,  in  order  to  give  them  an 
opportunity  to  show  their  integrity  and  their  confidence  in  the  Prophet 
of-  the  Lord.  The  great  majority  of  them  made  good,  and  although 
the  Church  was  only  four  years  old  at  the  time,  it  was  discovered  on 
this  journey  of  Zion's  Camp  that  some  very  good  and  staunch  men 
had  already  identified  themselves  with  the  Church  of  Christ.  Among 
the  members  of  Zion's  Camp  were  such  men  as  Brigham  Young,  Heber 
C.  Kimball,  Parley  P.  and  Orson  Pratt,  Hyrum  Smith,  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, George  A.  Smith  and  many  others  whose  names  have  become 
household  words  among  the  Saints.  The  journey  made  by  Zion's 
Camp  in  1834  compares  most  favorably  with  that  of  the  Mormon  Bat- 
talion and  that  of  the  Utah  Pioneers  of  1847.  In  1834  also  the  first 
two  High  Councils  in  the  Church  were  organized,  one  in  Kirtland, 
Ohio,  and  the  other  in  Clay  county,  Missouri. 

In  February,  1835,  the  Prophet  Joseph  called  the  young  men 
together  who  had  distinguished  themselves  for  their  faithfulness  and 
integrity  as  members  of  Zion's  Camp  the  year  before,  the  Lord  hav- 
ing a  blessing  in  store  for  them.  On  this  occasion  twelve  of  the  most 
faithful  men  in  the  Church  were  chosen,  mostly  from  among  the  mem- 
bers of  Zion's  Camp,  to  constitute  the  first  quorum  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  and  soon  afterwards  seventy  other  men  were  chosen,  mostly 
from  the  same  body,  to  constitute  the  first  quorum  of  Seventy.  I 
may  explain  that  up  to  this  time  the  officers  in  the  Priesthood  had  con- 
sisted of  Deacons,  Teachers,  Priests,  Bishops,  Elders  and  High  Priests. 

The  year  1836  witnessed  the  dedication  of  the  Kirtland  Temple, 
which  had  been  built  at  a  cost  of  about  $100,000.  It  would  indeed  be  a 
very  easy  task  for  the  Saints  now  to  erect  a  Temple  like  that,  but  it 
was  a  most  stupendous  work  for  the  few,  comparatively  speaking, 
who  at  that  time  constituted  the  membership  of  the  Church.  In  that 
Temple  the  Saints  received  great  blessings  and  witnessed  many  grand 
and  glorious  manifestations  of  the  power  of  God.  Jesus  Christ  him- 
self appeared  to  some  of  the  brethren  in  that  Temple  and  declared 
that  he  had  accepted  of  the  building  which  had  been  built  and  dedi- 
cated to  his  name.  Moses  also  appeared  in  that  holy  edifice  and  com- 
mitted to  the  Prophet  Joseph  the  keys  for  the  gathering  of  Israel  from 
the  four  quarters  of  the  globe,  an  event  which  is  responsible  for  the 
many  nationalities  represented  in  the  Church  at  the  present  time. 
Elijah  the  prophet,  who  was  taken  into  heaven  without  tasting  death, 
also  appeared  in  the  Kirtland  Temple  and  conferred  to  men  in  mor- 
tality the  keys  for  turning  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children 
and  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth 
should  be  smitten  with  a  curse,  as  predicted  by  the  prophet  Malachi. 

In  passing,  I  will  say,  that  the  Kirtland  Temple  was  not  provided 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

with  a  baptismal  font, nor  rooms  for  ordinance  work;  it  simply  provided 
a  sacred  place  for  Christ  and  other  heavenly  messengers  to  appeal 
and  restore  certain  keys  to  the  brethren  and  confer  blessings  upon 
the  people.  It  also  provided  a  place  for  schools  of  learning  for  the 
priesthood.  This  year  (1836)  the  Saints  in  Missouri  were  compelled 
to  leave  their  possessions  in  Clay  county  and  move  into  a  prairie  coun- 
try which  soon  afterwards  was  organized  into  Caldwell  county.  When 
the  Saints  moved  into  that  county  it  was  inhabited  only  by  two  or 
three  families  who  made  their  living  by  gathering  honey,  but  in  the 
course  of  three  years  the  Saints  turned  that  naked  prairie  country 
into  beautiful  farms  and.  gardens.  In  Caldwell  county  they  founded 
the  city  of  Far  West  and  many  other  villages ;  in  the  adjoining  Daviess 
county  they  located  Adam-ondi-Ahman  on  Grand  river,  and  in  Car- 
roll county  they  purchased  the  little  town  of  De  Witt.  They  increased 
so  rapidly  in  that  part  of  upper  Missouri  that  in  1838  there  were  as 
many  thousand  Saints  there  as  there  had  formerly  been  hundreds  in 
Jackson  county. 

In  1837  the  first  Latter-day  Saint  missionaries  were  sent  to  Eng- 
land where  they  commenced  that  great  missionary  labor  which  has 
resulted  in  so  many  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  from  the  British 
Isles  migrating  to  America  to  become  a  most  important  factor  in  the 
growth  of  the  Church.  The  British  Mission  was  a  natural  outgrowth 
of  missionary  labors  performed  by  Parley  P.  Pratt  in  1836,  in  the 
Dominion  of  Canada,  where  John  Taylor,  a  staunch  and  influential 
Englishman,  who  subsequently  became  president  of  the  Church,  be- 
lieved the  testimony  of  Brother  Pratt  and  was  baptized,  together  with 
many  others. 

In  1838  persecution  by  mobs  was  renewed  in  Caldwell  county 
and  that  season  became  a  veritable  year  of  martyrdom.  We  are  all 
familiar  with  the  fact  that  seventeen  Saints  were  massacred  at  Haun's 
Mill  on  the  30th  of  October,  1838,  and  that  David  W.  Patten,  one  of 
the  original  members  of  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
others  were  killed  about  the  same  time  on  Crooked  river.  During 
that  year,  also,  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  others  were  thrown  into  filthy 
dungeons  as  prisoners  and  kept  in  durance  vile  for  many  months. 

In  1839  the  exodus  of  about  12,000  Saints  from  Missouri  took 
place  under  the  exterminating  order  of  Gov.  Lilburn  W.  Boggs.  The 
exiled  Saints  fled  to  Illinois  and  there,  during  the  following  six  years, 
founded  and  built  up  the  city  of  Nauvoo,  in  Hancock  county.  I  will 
here  merely  mention  that  attempts  had  previously  been  made  by  oth- 
ers to  build  up  a  town  on  the  same  site,  but  instead  of  building  a 
town  they  built  a  good-sized  graveyard  on  the  side  hill.  Our  people, 
"plucked  and  peeled,"  as  they  were,  built  up  a  city  containing  about 
15,000  inhabitants.  In  Church  history  this  city  is  known  as  Nauvoo 
the  Beautiful.  It  stood  on  the  east  bank  of  the  Mississippi  river 
where  that  mighty  stream  changes  its  course  so  as  to  make  a  horse- 
shoe bend  and  on  the  projected  area  thus  formed  and  bounded  on 
three  sides  by  the  river,  the  city  was  built.  There  is  still  a  remnant 
of  Nauvoo  left,  but  it  is  a  matter  of  history  that  as  soon  as  the  Saints 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


71 


took  their  departure  for  the  far  west  an  apparent  blight  or  curse  set- 
tled down  upon  the  place,  and  has  rested  upon  it  ever  since.  Instead 
of  being  the  largest  city  in  Illinois,  as  it  was  in  1846,  Nauvoo  of  to- 
day is  a  small  insignificant  village,  suffering  under  the  displeasure 
of  God  as  literally  as  does  the  land  of  Palestine  which  was  placed  un- 
der a  curse  because  of  the  wickedness  of  its  inhabitants. 

In  1840  the  Saints  petitioned  the  President  and  Congress  of  the 
United  States  for  redress  for  the  persecutions  endured  by  them  in 
Missouri,  but  their  prayer  was  met  with  this  laconic  answer  from  the 
chief  executive  of  the  nation:  "Your  cause  is  just,  but  I  can  do  noth- 
ing for  you."  That  year  (1840)  a  number  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
arrived  in  England  as  missionaries,  Brigham  Young,  Heber  C.  Kim- 
ball, Parley  P.  Pratt,  Wilford  Woodruff  and  Geo.  A.  Smith  being 
among  the  number.  These  brethren  commenced  the  publication  of  the 
Millennial  Star,  which  is  still  published  in  England  and  is  now  the 
oldest  periodical  in  the  Church. 

The  year  1841  witnessed  the  laying  of  the  foundation  of  a  Temple 
in  Nauvoo  and  the  forming  of  the  Nauvoo  Legion  for  the  protection 
of  the  Saints.  This  military  organization  was  continued  many  years 
after  the  Saints  located  in  Utah,  and  some  of  the  brethren  who  are 
present  today  undoubtedly  belonged  to  the  Nauvoo  Legion. 

In  1842  Joseph  Smith  was  troubled  with  vexatious  lawsuits.  Dur- 
ing his  lifetime  it  is  asserted  that  he  was  arrested  forty-seven  times, 
but  was  acquitted  in  every  instance ;  and  when  his  enemies  finally 
found  that  they  could  not  prove  him  guilty  of  any  crime,  or  even  mis- 
demeanor, they  swore  that  "if  the  law  could  not  touch  him,  powder 
and  ball  would." 

In  1843  enemies  made  another  attempt  to  kidnap  Joseph  and  take 
him  to  Missouri,  but  the  Saints  of  Nauvoo,  who  loved  their.  Prophet 
as  they  loved  no  other  man,  except  it  be  Christ  himself,  rose  up  in 
righteous  indignation  in  his  defense,  and  with  the  Nauvoo  Legion  at 
their  back  rescued  their  Prophet  and  brought  him  safely  back  to 
Nauvoo. 

The  year  1844  witnessed  the  assassination  of  the  Prophet  Joseph. 
He  fell  as  a  martyr  to  the  cause  of  truth,  together  with  his  brother 
Hyrum  and  others. 

In  1845  the  mob  burned  nearly  all  the  houses  outside  of  Nauvoo, 
and  in  1846  they  sacked  Nauvoo  itself.  A  number  of  brethren  were 
killed  in  the  so-called  Nauvoo  battle  and  on  other  occasions.  Early 
in  1846  the  Saints  made  preparations  to  move  westward  into  the  land 
of  the  setting  sun,  and  in  February  of  that  year,  when  the  weather 
was  so  cold  that  the  frost  formed  a  natural  bridge  across  the  great 
Mississippi  river,  the  exodus  of  the  Saints  commenced.  One  com- 
pany of  Saints  from  the  Eastern  States,  instead  of  crossing  the  con- 
tinent, traveled  by  sea,  doubling  Cape  Horn  and  landed  at  the  little 
Spanish  village  called  Yerba  Buena  on  the  Bay  of  San  Francisco, 
July  31,  1846.  This  company  published  a  paper  called  the  California 
Star  and  turned  the  village  of  Yerba  Buena  into  the  present  town 
of  San  Francisco.  i 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


After  the  Saints  in  1846  had  traveled  westward  about  three  hun- 
dred miles  from  Nauvoo  a  request  reached  them  from  the  United 
States  government  for  five  hundred  men  to  participate  in  the  war  with 
Mexico,  and  while  some  of  the  Saints  demurred  on  the  ground  that 
they  needed  "all  the  able-bodied  men  in  their  camps  to  protect  them- 
selves against  the  Indians,  President  Brigham  Young  answered  the 
government  messenger  by  saying:  "You  shall  have  your  battalion, 
even  if  we  have  to  make  it  up  of  our  Elders,"  and,  sure,  enough,  the 
Elders,  Priests,  Teachers  and  Deacons  of  the  Church  were  mustered 
into  that  battalion  which  commenced  its  famous  march  toward  Cal- 
ifornia in  July,  1846.  It  is  said  that  these  volunteer  soldiers  made 
the  most  difficult  march  ever  undertaken  by  infantry  in  any  mili- 
tary campaign.  The  so-called  sick  detachment  of  the  battalion,  which 
was  not  considered  strong  enough  to  undertake  the  march  all  the  way 
across  the  deserts  to  California,  was  sent  to  a  place  now  called  Pueblo, 
on  the  Arkansas  river,  where  they  spent  the  winter  of  1846-1847,  and 
thus  became  the  first  Anglo-Saxon  settlers  in  what  is  now  the  State 
of  Colorado. 

Having  served  their  time  according  to  enlistment  the  Mormon 
Battalion  was  discharged  in  California  in  July, '  1847,  and  early  in 
1848  some  of  the  members  discovered  gold  in  California,  an  event 
which  for  a  while  almost  turned  the  world  upside  down. 

Most  of  the  exiles  from  Nauvoo  spent  the  winter  of  1846-1847 
on  the  west  bank  of  the  Missouri  river,  where  they  built  a  town  called 
Winter  Quarters,  the  first  Anglo-Saxon  settlement  in  what  is  now 
the  State  of  Nebraska.  This  was  done  because  the  Mormon  Battalion 
took  away  so  many  of  the  stronger  men  that  the  rest  of  the  exiles 
could  not  continue  the  journey  to  the  mountains  that  season,  as  had 
been  contemplated,  but  in  April,  1847,  a  company,  known  in  history 
as  the  pioneers,  consisting  of  143  men,  three  women  and  two  chil- 
dren, left  Winter  Quarters  for  the  Rocky  Mountains  and  arrived  in 
Great  Salt  Lake  Valley  in  July,  1847.  About  one  thousand  eight 
hundred  others  of  the  exiled  Saints  arrived  in  the  valley  in  the  fall 
and  spent  the  winter  of  1847-1848  in  the  valley. 

Early  in  1848  the  pioneers  in  the  Valley  put  in  crops  which  from 
the  beginning  promised  a  rich  harvest,  and  for  a  while  everything 
looked  promising  and  encouraging,  but  in  the  early  part  of  the  sum- 
mer crickets  came  down  in  myriads  from  the  mountains  surrounding 
Great  Salt  Lake  Valley  and  destroyed  a  great  portion  of  the  crops. 
Notwithstanding  every  effort  was  made  to  drive  them  off  by  means 
of  bushes,  long  rods,  etc.,  whole  families  and  neighbors  turning  out 
en  masse  until  almost  exhausted,  the  whole  would  have  been  destroyed, 
had  not  the  Almighty  in  his  kindness  sent  gulls  in  vast  numbers  which 
covered  the  fields  and  destroyed  the  crickets.  This  circumstanoe  saved 
the  life  of  the  colony  which  during  the  winter  of  1847-1848  had  lived 
on  half  rations  and  their  whole  hope  of  escaping  starvation  was  cen- 
tered on  the  harvest  of  1848.  They  could  not  possibly  have  lived 
through  another  winter,  nor  could  the  four  thousand  other  emi- 
grants who  arrived  in  the  valley  in  1848  have  escaped  starvation  if 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


73 


the  harvest  of  1848  had  proved  a  failure.  Hence,  when  we  view  the 
beautiful  statue  erected  on  this  block  in  honor  of  the  sea  gulls  we  may 
well  offer  up  a  prayer  of  thanksgiving  for  what  these  birds  did  for 
the  pioneers  of  Utah. 

While  everything  looked  dreary  and  blue  in  Salt  Lake  Valley 
in  1848  and  clothing  of  every  description  as  well  as  foot  gear  was  so 
extremely  scarce  that  some  of  the  men  were  obliged  to  make  cloth- 
ing of  skins,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  as  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  on  a  certain 
occasion  arose  in  the  midst  of  a  congregation  of  Saints  and  said  that 
within  one  year  States  goods  would  be  sold  on  the  streets  of  Salt  Lake 
City  as  cheap  as  in  the  city  of  New  York.  After  uttering  the  prophecy, 
Bro.  Kimball  remarked  that  it  seemed  almost  impossible  for  his  pre- 
diction to  be  fulfilled;  nor  did  the  brethren  who  heard  him  place  any 
confidence  in  his  words.  Yet  the  prophecy  was  fulfilled  in  a  most 
natural  way  in  1849,  when  tens  of  thousands  of  gold  diggers  from  the 
east  and  from  Europe  passed  through  Salt  Lake  City  on  their  way  to 
the  gold  mines  in  California.  Being  anxious  to  continue  their  jour- 
ney without  delay  these  travelers  were  willing  to  exchange  their 
States  goods  for  fresh  cattle  and  supplies  of  food,  and  thus  were 
the  wants  of  the  people,  so  far  as  clothing  was  concerned,  relieved, 
while  the  gold  miners  could  continue  their  journey  rejoicing.  In  1849 
Provo  in  Utah  county  and  Manti  in  Sanpete  county  were  founded, 
Ogden  having  been  founded  the  year  before.  Early  in  1849  the  people 
in  the  valley  organized  the  Provisional  Government  of  the  State  of  Des- 
eret  which  was  the  only  general  government  here  for  more  than  two 
years  or  until  the  machinery  of  the  Territory  of  Utah  came  into 
existence  in  1851.  I  could  say  much  about  this  government  and  the 
conditions  in  the  Valley,  showing  the  loyalty  and  the  good  character 
of  the  Saints  during  those  years,  but  time  will  not  permit.  In  1849 
missionary  operations,  which  on  account  of  the  exodus  had  been  neg- 
lected for  a  few  years,  were  revived,  as  missionaries  were  not  only 
called  to  the  United  States  and  Great  Britain  but  to  continental  Europe. 
Thus  it  was  that  new  missions  were  opened  up  among  many  people 
who  do  not  speak  the  English  language,  among  them  being  missions 
to  France,  Italy,  Denmark,  Sweden  and  the  Hawaiian  Islands. 

In  1850  a  string  of  new  settlements  was  founded  in  Utah  Valley, 
including  Lehi,  American  Fork,  Pleasant  Grove,  Springville,  Spanish 
Fork,  and  Payson. 

In  1851  the  government  pertaining  to  the  Territory  of  Utah 
(which  had  been  created  the  year  before)  was  set  in  motion  and  Fill- 
more, Millard  county,  chosen  as  the  first  capital  of  Utah.  That  year 
also  Brigham  City,  Willard,  Nephi,  Parowan,  Cedar  City  and  other 
settlements  of  the  Saints  were  founded  in  Utah  and  besides  these,  San 
Bernardino  in  California.  This  year  Great  Salt  Lake  City  was  made 
an  incorporated  city  with  Jedediah  M.  Grant  as  the  first  mayor.  New 
missions  were  opened  by  the  Church  in  South  America,  Australia, 
India,  Switzerland,  Norway  and  Iceland. 

In  1852  nearly  all  the  Saints  who  had  stopped  temporarily  in  the 
Pottawattamie  country  in  Iowa  emigrated  to  the  Valley. 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


In  1853  the  so-called  Walker  war  broke  out  in  Utah,  in  which  a 
number  of  the  settlers  were  killed.  Fort  Supply,  near  Fort  Bridger, 
was  founded  by  the  Saints.  This  was  the  first  Anglo-Saxon  settle- 
ment in  what  is  now  the  State  of  Wyoming.  This  year  also  the  first 
branches  of  the  Church  were  organized  in  Sweden. 

In  1854  hundreds  of  emigrating  Saints  from  Europe  died  from 
cholera  while  sailing  up  the  Mississippi  river  and  while  crossing  the 
plains.  New  missions  of  the  Church  were  opened  in  New  Zealand 
and  in  Gibraltar. 

In  1855  the  grasshoppers  destroyed  nearly  all  the  crops  in  Utah. 
A  colony  of  Saints  was  established  in  Carson  Valley  (now  Nevada) 
and  a  missionary  settlement  founded  near  Salmon  River  in  what  is 
now  the  State  of  Idaho,  this  being  the  first  Anglo-Saxon  settlement 
in  that  State. 

Owing  to  the  destruction  of  the  crops  in  1855  food  was  very 
scarce  ih  Utah  during  the  early  part  of  1856,  but  the  lives  of  the 
people  were  saved  by  their  eating  thistle  tops  and  sego  roots.  In  1856 
upwards  of  two  thousand  Saints  crossed  the  plains  with  handcarts, 
and  as  many  more  during  following  years. 

In  1857  the  so-called  Johnston  army  troubles  occurred,  through 
the  falsehoods  circulated  by  Judge  W.  W.  Drummond  and  others. 
This  army  was  sent  to  Utah  to  punish  the  "Mormons"  who  were  ac- 
cused of  being  disloyal  to  the  government.  The  Utah  militia  mustered 
into  service  by  proclamation  by  Gov.  Brigham  Young,  stopped  the 
army  temporarily  and  the  troops  spent  the  winter  of  1857-1858  near 
Fort  Bridger. 

In  1858  through  the  good  offices  of  Thos.  L.  Kane  and  peace 
commissioners  the  difficulties  existing  between  the  U.  S.  government 
and  the  citizens  of  Utah  were  settled  and  the  army  entered  the  Valley, 
but  not  until  the  inhabitants  had  vacated  Salt  Lake  City  and  the 
northern  settlements.    They,  however,  returned  to  their  homes. 

In  1859  the  Federal  judges  in  Utah  exercised  undue  authority 
and  caused  considerable  difficulty  by  instituting  unjust  court  proceed- 
ings against  Church  leaders  and  others. 

In  1860  the  so-called  pony  express  was  introduced  which  made 
communication  between  Utah  and  the  east  and  California  much  easier. 

In  1861  Utah  was  divided  and  Nevada  came  into  existence  as  a 
territory,  afterwards  as  a  state.  That  year  also  upwards  of  two 
hundred  wagons,  with  four  yoke  of  cattle  to  each,  were  sent  from 
Utah  to  the  Missouri  river  to  bring  in  the  poor  Saints  who  were  emi- 
grating to  the  vallev.  This  movement  on  the  part  of  the  Church  was 
repeated  in  1862,  1863,  1864,  1866,  and  1868.  This  year  (1861)  the 
overland  telegraph  line  was  completed  to  Salt  Lake  City. 

In  1862  another  convention  was  held  in  Utah  which  re-adopted 
with  slight  amendments,  the  constitution  of  1856.  Delegates  were 
sent  to  Washington  to  ask  for  Utah's  admission  into  the  Union  as  a 
state  ;  the  request  was  again  refused.  In  1862  Camp  Douglas  was  estab- 
lished, near  Salt  Lake  City,  by  California  volunteers. 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


75 


In  1863  new  settlements  of  Saints  were  founded  in  Sevier  Val- 
ley, Utah,  and  Bear  Lake  Valley,  Idaho. 

In  1864  Calls  Landing  was  established  by  the  Saints  on  the  Colo- 
others  were  subsequently  called.  The  first  "Mormon"  settlements  in 
Arizona. 

In  1865  the  so-called  Black  Hawk  war  broke  out  in  Southern 
Utah  and  continued  for  three  years,  during  which  about  75  people 
were  killed  and  thousands  of  head  of  stock  taken  off  by  the  Indians. 
In  consequence  of  these  raids  and  massacres  the  counties  of  Piute 
and  Sevier  were  abandoned  as  well  as  some  of  the  small  settlements 
and  ranches  in  Kane  county. 

In  1866  ten  companies  of  Church  teams  were  sent  to  the  Missouri 
river  after  the  poor. 

In  1867  the  large  tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake  City  was  nearly  com- 
pleted. 

In  1868  nearly  all  the  crops  in  Utah  were  destroyed  by  grass- 
hoppers. In  order  to  create  employment  for  the  people,  that  they 
might  earn  means  to  buy  bread,  President  Brigham  Young  took  a 
contract  to  grade  ninety  miles  of  the  Union  Pacific  Railroad.  Thus 
work  and  money  became  plentiful  in  Utah. 

In  1869  the  Union  Pacific  Railroad  was  completed  to  Ogden  and 
on  May  10th,  1869,  the  last  rail  connecting  the  Union  Pacific  and 
the  Central  Pacific  railroads  was  laid  at  Promontory.  This  put  an 
end  to  the  long  and  tedious  travel  across  the  continent  by  ox  teams. 
In  January,  1870,  the  Utah  Central  Railroad  was  completed  to  Salt 
Lake  City,  thus  making  the  capital  of  Utah  a  railroad  town. 

In  February,  1871,  the  settlements  of  the  Saints  on  the  Muddy, 
now  in  Lincoln  county,  Nevada,  were  abandoned  by  them,  owing  to 
oppressive  taxation  by  the  officials  of  the  new  State  of  Nevada.  That 
year  also  Judge  James  B.  McKean,  who  had  recently  been  appointed 
chief  justice  in  Utah,  united  with  the  associate  justice  in  setting 
the  laws  of  the  territory  at  defiance,  which  led  to  considerable  dis- 
turbance, as  under  his  rulings  civil  and  religious  liberty  almost  de- 
parted from  Utah  for  the  time  being,  and  tyranny  usurped  their 
places. 

Early  in  1872  another  constitutional  convention  met  in  Salt 
Lake  City  to  adopt  mesaures  anew  for  the  admission  of  Utah  into  the 
Union.  A  constitution  and  a  memorial  to  Congress  were  finally 
adopted  which  provided  for  woman's  suffrage  and  minority  represen- 
tation. When  it  was  submitted  to  the  people  for  their  vote  25,324 
persons  voted  for  it  and  only  368  against  it.  In  May  the  memorial  was 
presented  to  Congress,  but  admission  of  the  State  of  Deseret  into 
the  Union  was  denied  because  of  the  unpopularity  of  the  religion  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints. 

In  1873  an  unsuccessful  attempt  was  made  by  a  company  of 
Saints  to  settle  in  Arizona  territory.  President  Geo.  A.  Smith  visited 
Palestine  and  other  countries. 

In  1874  a  large  number  of  Indians  joined  the  Church  and  the 
United  Order  was  introduced  among  the  Saints  in  Utah. 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


In  1875  Geo.  A.  Smith,  first  counselor  to  President  Brigham 
Young,  and  Church  historian,  died  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

In  1876  a  large  number  of  families  in  Utah  were  called  by  the 
Church  authorities  to  locate  settlements  of  the  Saints  in  Arizona; 
others  were  subsequently  called.  The  first  "Mormon"  settlements  in 
Arizona  were  founded  on  the  Little  Colorado  river.  There  are  now 
about  fifty  settlements  of  the  Saints  in  Arizona,  comprising  four 
Stakes  of  Zion. 

In  April,  1877,  the  Temple  in  St.  George  was  dedicated  on  the 
occasion  of  a  general  conference  of  the  Church  being  held  within 
its  sacred  walls.  The  erection  of  that  temple,  the  first  in  Utah,  was 
commenced  in  November,  1871.  During  the  year,  1877,  under  the 
direction  of  President  Brigham  Young,  a  general  re-organization  of 
all  the  settlements  of  the  Saints  took  place,  regular  Stakes  of  Zion 
being  organized  in  the  different  counties  in  Utah  and  also  in  Idaho 
and  Arizona,  where  the  Saints  resided.  No  sooner  was  this  import- 
ant organization  completed  than  President  Brigham  Young,  who  had 
presided  over  the  Church  33  years,  took  sick  and  died  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  August  29,  1877.  After  his  death  the  Twelve  Apostles,  with 
John  Taylor  at  their  head,  took  the  lead  in  all  matters  pertaining  to 
the  Church  for  three  years. 

In  1878  a  number  of  Mexican  claims  were  purchased  by  the 
Saints  in  Conejos  county,  Colorado,  where  several  "Mormon"  set- 
tlements were  subsequently  located ;  they  now  constitute  the  San  Luis 
stake  of  Zion. 

In  May,  1879,  Daniel  H.  Wells  was  imprisoned  in  the  terri- 
torial penitentiary  for  alleged  contempt  of  court.  The  offense  consisted 
in  his  refusal  to  disclose  the  secrets  of  the  Endowment  House.  In 
July  Elder  Joseph  Standing  was  shot  and  killed  by  a  mob  near  Var- 
nell  station,  Whitfield  county,  Georgia,  where  he  had  labored  as  a 
missionary.  The  murderers  of  Elder  Standing  were  subsequently  all 
identified  and  three  of  them  arraigned  in  court  in  Dalton,  Georgia,  on 
the  charge  of  murder  in  the  first  degree,  but,  although  the  evidence 
against  them  was  clear  and  direct,  they  were  acquitted  by  a  wicked 
and  bigoted  jury  and  an  unrighteous  judge. 

In  April,  1880,  the  Church  celebrated  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
its  organization  by  a  Jubilee  conference  held  in  Salt  Lake  City,  at 
which  the  people  voted  to  remit  $820,000  of  the  indebtedness  to  the 
P.  E.  Fund  in  favor  of  the  worthy  poor  and  to  distribute  1,000  cows 
and  5,000  sheep  among  the  needy,  all -of  which  was  done.  In  October, 
1880,  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  was  once  more  reorganized, 
John  Taylor  being  chosen  president  with  George  Q.  Cannon  and 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  counselors. 

In  1881,  Gov.  Eli  H.  Murray  of  Utah  put  himself  on  record  in 
a  most  unusual  manner  by  issuing  a  certificate  of  election  to  Allen 
G.  Campbell,  the  minority  candidate  for  delegate  to  Congress  from 
Utah,  although  George  Q.  Cannon  had  been  properly  elected  by  an 
overwhelming  majority. 

In  1882  the*  so-called  Edmunds  anti-polygamy  bill  was  passed  by 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


77 


the  U.  S.  Senate.  Under  this  bill  a  large  number  of  leading  breth- 
ren were  arrested  in  Utah,  Idaho  and  Arizona,  charged  with  so-called 
unlawful  co-habitation,  and  about  one  thousand  men  were  imprisoned 
in  the  Utah  Penitentiary  and  elsewhere  for  refusing  to  desert  their 
wives  and  children.  That  year  (1882)  another  convention  was  held  in 
Utah  which  adopted  another  constitution  and  memorial  to  Congress, 
praying  that  Utah  be  admitted  into  the  Union  as  a  State,  but  Congress 
again  refused  to  accede  to  the  wishes  of  the  people  of  Utah. 

In  1883  the  Logan  temple  was  finished  and  dedicated. 

In  1884  Elders  Wm.  L.  Berry  and  John  H.  Gibbs  and  others 
were  cruelly  murdered  by  a  mob  in  Tennessee  for  no  other  crime  than 
that  they  were  Latter-day  Saints. 

In  1887  President  John  Taylor,  who  had  been  in  exile  for  some 
time,  died  in  Kaysville,  Utah.  The  Twelve  Apostles  again  came 
to  the  front  as  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church  with  Wilford 
Woodruff,  the  senior  Apostle,  at  their  head. 

In  1888  the  missionaries  were  quite  successful  in  their  labors, 
especially  on  the  islands  of  the  sea,  including  Samoa,  where  the  ful- 
ness of  the  gospel  was  introduced  that  year.  A  temple  was  com- 
pleted and  dedicated  in  Manti,  Sanpete  county. 

In  April,  1889,  a  First  Presidency  was  again  sustained  by  the 
Saints,  Wilford  Woodruff  being'  unanimously  chosen  as  President 
of  the  Church  with  George  O.  Cannon  as  his  first  and  Joseph  F. 
Smith  as  his  second  counselor. 

In  1890  the  municipal  government  of  Salt  Lake  City  passed  from 
the  hands  of  the  Saints  represented  by  the  People's  Party  into  those  of 
the  so-called  Liberal  Party  which  for  many  years  past  had  represented 
the  anti-"Mormon"  faction  of  the  territory.  The  Liberal  city  council 
took  possession  in  February  and  immediately  inaugurated  a  reign  of 
extravagance  and  blunders.  Until  this  transfer  Salt  Lake  City  was 
one  of  the  best  governed  cities  in  the  world,  life  and  property  had 
been  safe,  peace  and  order  the  prominent  characteristics  of  the  com- 
munity, and  taxation  light.  But  no  sooner  had  the  Liberals  come 
into  power  than  the  city  became  a  regular  rendezvous  for  tramps, 
footpads  and  burglars,  etc.  Vile  houses  of  resort,  gambling  hells, 
saloons,  and  other  places  of  evil,  multiplied  and  were  at  the  close  of 
the  year  in  full  operation  with  but  little  check,  even  on  the  Sabbath 
day.  At  the  general  conference  of  the  Church  held  in  Salt  Lake 
City  in  October,  1890,  the  Saints  voted  unanimously  to  discontinue 
polygamous  marriages,  agreeable  to  the  provisions  of  the  manifesto 
issued  by  President  Wilford  Woodruff  and  dated  Sept.  24,  1890. 

The  year  1891  witnessed  the  Saints  in  Utah  dividing  on  party 
lines ;  the  old  People's  Party  was  disorganized  and  the  majority  of 
the  members  of  the  Church  joined,  or  acted  in  unison  with,  the  two 
great  national  parties  of  the  land,  the  Democrats  and  Republicans, 
according  to  their  individual  preference. 

In  1892  missionary  work  was  re-commenced  on  the  Society  and 
Tuamotu  Islands ;  for  forty  years  the  Saints  of  those  islands  had  been 
left  without  the  guidance  of  Elders  from  Zion. 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


In  April,  1893,  the  Temple  in  Salt  Lake  City  was  dedicated.  It  had 
been  in  course  of  erection  forty  years,  and  its  estimated  cost  was 
$4,000,000.  It  was  by  far  the  largest  Temple  erected  by  the  Church 
up  to  that  time. 

In  1894  President  Grover  Cleveland  pardoned  all  polygamists  and 
restored  them  to  their  civil  rights. 

In  1895  a  State  constitution  was  made  and  adopted  by  the  Con- 
stitutional Convention  held  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  every  preparation 
made  for  Utah's  admission  into  the  Union  as  a  State.  President 
Grover  Cleveland  signed  the  proclamation  which  admitted  Utah  into 
the  sisterhood  of  States  Jan.  4,  1896.  The  occasion  was  honored  by 
grand  celebrations  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  other  places  in  the  new 
State. 

In  1897  Utah  celebrated  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  arrival 
of  the  Pioneers  in  Great  Salt  Lake  Valley. 

In  1898  President  Wilford  Woodruff  died  and  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church  was  re-organized  with  Lorenzo  Snow  as  presi- 
dent. In  1899  settlements  of  the  Saints  were  organized  in  the  Big 
Horn  Basin  in  Wyoming,  several  quorums  of  Seventies  were  organ- 
ized and  the  misionaries  of  the  Church  met  with  considerable  success  in 
their  administrations  abroad.  The  close  of  the  century  found  the 
Church  in  a  most  healthy  condition.  There  were  43  Stakes  of  Zion, 
comprising  about  400  wards  and  eighteen  missionary  fields  in  the 
United  States  and  in  foreign  lands.  The  total  membership  of  the 
Church  numbered  about  400,000  in  the  whole  world 

The  next  decade  witnessed  many  changes  and  steady  progress 
for  the  Church.  President  Lorenzo  Snow  died  in  1901,  and  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church  was  re-organized  with  Joseph  F.  Smith 
as  president  and  John  R.  Winder  and  Anthon  H.  Lund  as  counselors. 
Many  new  wards  were  organized  in  1902,  a  Bureau  of  Information 
was  established  on  the  Temple  block,  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  a  new 
mission  house  was  built  and  dedicated  in  Copenhagen,  Denmark.  In 
1903  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  published  in  the  Samoan  language  and  a 
new  mission  house  was  built  and  dedicated  in  Denver,  Colorado.  In 
1904,  Salt  Lake  City  was  divided  into  four  stakes,  a  number  of  promi- 
nent Church  people  were  summoned  to  Washington,  D.  C,  to  testify 
before  the  Senate  committee  on  Privileges  and  Elections  in  the  Smoot 
case,  and  a  mission  house,  purchased  and  remodeled  by  the  Church,  was 
dedicated  in  Stockholm,  Sweden.  The  railway  connecting  Salt  Lake 
City  with  southern  California  was  completed,  the  Church  purchased 
the  old  Mack  farm  in  Vermont  and  erected  a  monument  thereon, 
which  was  dedicated  Dec.  23,  1905.  The  Church  opened  a  mission 
field  in  ancient  Greece.  In  1906  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  made  a 
trip  to  Europe ;  it  was  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the  Church  that 
a  president  of  the  Church  visited  Europe.  In  1907  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church  issued  a  significant  address  to  the  world,  stating 
the  policy  and  belief  of  the  Church.  During  the  following  four  years 
several  new  stakes  of  Zion  and  a  number  of  new  wards  were  or- 
ganized. 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


79 


During  the  decade  commencing  with  1911  a  great  many  taber- 
nacles, meetinghouses  and  chapels  were  erected.  The  missionaries 
met  with  considerable  opposition  in  some  of  the  European  countries. 
Most  of  the  Saints  were  forced  to  leave  Mexico  in  1912,  owing  to  the 
revolution  in  that  land.  Permanent  missionary  homes  were  secured 
and  dedicated  in  Chicago,  Illinois,  and  in  Los  Angeles,  California, 
in  1913.  A  site  for  a  temple  was  dedicated  in  Alberta,  Canada.  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  died  in  Salt  Lake  City  Nov.  19,  1918,  and  the 
First  Presidency  was  re-organized  a  few  days  later  with  Heber  J. 
Grant  as  President  and  Anthon  H.  Lund  and  Charles  W.  Penrose 
as  counselors.  In  November,  1919,  the  newly  erected  Temple  in 
Hawaii  was  dedicated  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  and  early  in  1920 
a  site  for  a  temple  was  selected  in  Mesa,  Arizona. 

Now  a  word  in  conclusion,  comparing  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  with  the  primitive  Christian  Church.  When  one 
hundred  years  had  passed  over  the  original  church  all  the  Apostles, 
save  one,  and  many  others,  had  been  martyred,  while  great  numbers  of 
the  early  Christians  had  apostatized  from  the  faith.  If  we  compare 
our  position,  with  theirs,  our  hearts  will  rejoice  that  we  live  in  the 
latter  days.  If  we  had  lived  in  the  days  of  the  Savior  and  his  apos- 
tles, and  had  belonged  to  that  dispensation,  we  might  have  had  the 
privilege  of  falling  as  martyrs,  or  perhaps  we  might  have  denied 
the  faith.  But  living  in  this  day,  we  are  members  of  a  Church  grow- 
ing year  by  year,  and  now  stronger  than  ever  before.  At  least  half  a 
million  people  constitute  the  membership  of  "the  Church  at  the 
present  time,  and  instead  of  having  dead  apostles,  we  have  a  live 
First  Presidency,  twelve  live  apostles,  more  than  two  hundred  quor- 
ums of  seventy  and  quorums  of  high  priests  and  other  orders  of  the 
Priesthood  in  every  stake  of  the  Church.  As  a  Church  organization 
we  have  grown  until  there  are  seventy-nine  stakes  of  Zion  and  nearly 
one  thousand  wards  and  branches  of  the  Church  in  these  mountains 
alone,  to  say  nothing  of  our  membership  in  foreign  lands,  and  still  we 
are  safe  in  saying  that  "Mormonism"  is  only  singing,  as  it  were,  on  its 
first  verse.  So  much  having  been  accomplished  during  the  past  one 
hundred  years,  what  will  not  be  witnessed  in  the  next  hundred  years 
to  come?  For  as  a  Church  we  are  here  to  stay  and  grow  until  our 
influence  for  good  shall  be  felt  to  the  ends  of  the  earth.  Let  us 
remember  that  it  has  cost  some  of  the  best  blood  of  the  nineteenth 
century  to  accomplish  that  which  has  already  been  done.  Let  us  re- 
member, too,  the  services  of  Zion's  Camp,  the  Mormon  Battalion,  the 
Pioneers  of  1847,  and  the  many  other  faithful  men  and  women  who 
have  made  sacrifices  for  us,  and  through  whose  labors  and  faithfulness 
we  today  enjoy  all  the  blessings  that  come  within  the  reach  of  those 
who  keep  the  commandments  of  God. 

May  God  bless  us  all  that  we  may  always  remain  faithful  and 
true,  is  my  earnest  praver  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  with  William  S.  Wright,  Mildred  Ware  and  Myrtle 
B.  Higley  sang,  "Is  This  the  Messiah?" 

Benediction  pronounced  by  Elder  Willard  C.  Burtqn. 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


THIRD  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  third  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Bureau  of  Informa- 
tion Hall  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  April  4,  1920,  Elder  John  M.  Knight, 
President  of  the  Ensign  stake  and  of  the  Western  States  Mission, 
presiding. 

The  music  was  furnished  by  the  Swanee  singers. 
The  chorus  sang,  "Let  the  Lower  Lights  be  Burning." 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Benjamin  Goddard  of  the  Bureau 
of  Information. 

The  chorus  sang  "The  Palms." 

i 

ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN 

(President  of  the  Canadian  Mission) 

One  Sunday  afternoon  last  December  I  spoke  in  the  Queen's 
Square  Theatre  in  St.  Johns,  New  Brunswick.  At  the  close  of  the 
meeting  a  good  Irish  business  man  invited  me  to  spend  the  evening  at 
his  home.  I  accepted  the  invitation  and  passed  two  delightful  hours 
with  this  new  found  friend,  talking  about  religion.  My  host  was  an 
old  man,  who  had  never  joined  a  church.  In  fact  for  a  number  of 
years  he  had  taken  pleasure  in  detecting  indications  of  the  derth  of 
spirituality  in  the  popular  churches.  In  the  course  of  our  conversa- 
tion he  told  a  story  of  a  good  Christian  woman  who  had  the  mis- 
fortune of  breaking  her  arm.  She  believed  in  the  old  faith  and  re- 
quested one  of  the  pastors  of  St.  John  to  come  and  pray  for  her 
recovery.  A  reverend  gentleman  went  to  her~  room  and  looked 
through  his  prayer  book  for  a  prayer  suitable  for  the  occasion.  After 
some  fruitless  search,  he  shook  his  head  and  said,  "I  can  find  a 
prayer  for  rheumatism,  and  a  broken  leg,  but  I  cannot  find  a  prayer 
for  a  broken  arm.   I  am  sorry  that  I  cannot  pray  for  you."  (Laughter.) 

When  I  heard  this  story  I  was  reminded  of  what  Bill  Nye  wrote 
in  his  comic  History  of  The  United  States  about  the  religion  of  the 
first  settlers  of  New  England.  He  said,  "The  Pilgrims  came  to  Amer- 
ica because  they  did  not  believe  in  elocutionary  prayers."  I  am 
thankful  that  I  belong  to  a  Church  that  does  not  believe  in.  "elocu- 
tionary prayers,"  or  "sermons." 

Our  religion  commenced  with  the  sincere  prayer  of  a  boy.  God's 
own  hand  rocked  its  cradle,  and  his  inspiring  Spirit  has  unfailingly 
guided  its  destiny  until  it  has  become  a  mighty  power  for  human  puri- 
fication and  ennoblement. 

I  am  deeply  thankful  for  the  opportunity  of  coming  home  to  par- 
ticipate with  you  in  the  celebration  of  the  glorious  centennial  anni- 
versary of  Joseph  Smith's  first  prayer.  The  day  that  boy  first  prayed 
openly  is  one  of  the  holiest  days  in  the  history  of  the  human  race. 
His  intense  faith-cry  to  God  that  day  was  the  noblest  act  of  the 
noblest  soul  except  One.  It  marked  the  beginning  of  one  of  the  great- 
est epochs  in  the  history  of  religion.  It  started  the  real  modern  spirit- 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSON 


81 


ual  renaissance.  For  that  day  the  true  meaning  of  prayer  was  dis- 
covered for  modern  man. 

True  prayer  is  the  soul  of  true  religion.  It  distinguishes  religion 
from  superstition.  As  long  as  men  pray  from  the  heart  with  real 
faith  they  will  retain  some  actual  assurance  of  the  existence  of  the 
true  God. 

When  the  Christ  taught  men  how  to  pray  the  simple,  undoubting 
prayer  of  faith,  he  gave  to  the  human  race  its  mightiest  instrumentality. 
But  alas,  man  lost  this  key  to  actual  communion  with  his  Maker.  In 
the  middle  ages  paganism  drove  truth  from  the  altar  and  living  faith 
from  the  human  heart.  The  simple  religion  of  prayer  and  "worship 
in  spirit  and  in  truth,"  was  turned  into  a  gaudy  show.  Superstition  killed 
living  belief,  and  dead  formalism  drove  out  of  the  sanctuary  the  simple 
heart-yearning  prayer  that  seeks  and  finds,  asks  and  receives. 

Joseph  Smith,  the  great  modern  prophet,  discovered  the  lost 
meaning  of  prayer.  With  a  heart  that  did  not  stagger  at  the  thought 
of  trusting  the  invisible  God,  he  cried  to  the  God  of  heaven  for  wis- 
dom, and  he  received  what  he  asked  for.  By  the  power  of  his  mighty 
faith  he  called  to  earth  the  Father  of  all,  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 
Because  he  trusted  implicitly  in  the  words :  "If  any  of  you  lack 
wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,"  he  was  privileged  to  hear  the  awful  Voice 
that  had  stilled  the  storm  and  stayed  the  wave. 

The  story  of  that  boy's  all-conquering  faith  is  the  most  thrilling 
incident  in  modern  annals.  There  is  light,  life  and  hope  in  it.  It  is  the 
beacon  that  lights  the  way  across  the  dark  chasm  which  centuries 
of  ignorance  and  superstition  have  placed  between  God  and  man.  Be- 
cause that  boy  asked  and  received,  thousands  who  have  come  after 
him  have  been  able  to  ask  and  receive. 

We  are  the  legatees  of  the  faith  and  truth  that  Prophet  bequeathed 
to  the  modern  world.  Many  of  us  have  followed  his  example  and 
have  sought  and  found  the  soul-satisfying  knowledge  of  God.  I  have 
asked  and  received.  Without  the  slightest  hesitancy  I  can  say  that  I 
know  God  answers  prayer,  as  certainly  as  I  know  that  light  is  light. 

Men  come  from  afar  and  witness  what  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
accomplished  in  this  intermountain  region,  and  go  away  deeply  im- 
pressed with  these  achievements.  Often  when  these  men"  are  ap- 
proached on  the  subject  of  "Mormonism"  they  say,  "I  care  nothing 
about  your  religion,  but  I  am  greatly  interested  in  what  you  people 
have  accomplished."  This  is  a  very  superficial  commentary  upon  the 
history  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  For,  apart  from  the  living  faith 
taught  and  exemplified  by  our  Prophet,  the  Latter-day  Saints  would 
not  have  been  able  to  accomplish  any  more  than  any  other  people. 

It  was  living  faith  in  a  living,  personal  God  that  gave  them  for- 
titude to  sacrifice  all  that  they  might  be  true  to  him  who  was  their 
All  in  All.  It  was  not  mere  human  ingenuity  that  selected  this  place, 
which  is  now  secluded  from  the  industrial  turmoil  of  the  rest  of  our 
country,  as  a  resting  place  for  modern  Israel.  It  was  true  inspiration 
which  first  said,  "This  is  the  place !"  It  was  not  a  mere  sense  of  the 
strength  in  unity  that  sent  this  people  out  in  concert  to  make  roads, 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


build  bridges,  construct  irrigation  canals,  and  erect  splendid  temples 
and  tabernacles.  A  deeper  spirit  was  the  inspiring  cause  of  all  these 
achievements.  "God  has  spoken  again :"  This  was  the  all-impelling 
thought  that  banded  the  Saints  together  as  the  heart  of  one  man  in  their 
great  enterprises.  All  that  the  Saints  have  risked  and  suffered,  all 
that  they  have  ventured  and  accomplished,  all  that  they  have  sacrificed 
for  the  salvation  of  mankind,  has  been  suffered,  accomplished  and 
sacrificed  in  the  name  of  and  by  the  power  of  the  faith  that  Joseph 
Smith  discovered  one  hundred  years  ago. 

This  vital  faith  puts  man  in  actual  contact  with  God.  It  is  the 
one  thing  the  world  most  needs  today.  Everywhere  I  find  pathetic 
proof  of  the  lack  of  this  inspiring  belief  in  God.  I  detect  it  in  the  in- 
sipid singing  in  the  sectarian  churches.  I  notice  it  in  their  hollow 
prayers.  I  discover  it  in  their  old  sermons  that  speak  of  a  distant  God 
in  high  sounding  theological  phrases. 

Last  Sunday  afternoon  I  was  more  than  usually  impressed  with 
the  sectarian  lack  of  the  power  to  get  in  contact  with  God.  I  at- 
tended a  Pentecostal  meeting  in  Winnipeg,  Canada.  At  this  meeting 
I  saw  an  audience  of  several  hundred  people,  who  have  discovered  the 
hollowness  and  coldness  of  modern  religion.  These  people  were  hon- 
estly but  vainly  striving,  in  song  and  prayer  and  sermon,  to  get  close 
to  the  Father  of  All.  In  their  hearts  they  sincerely  desired  to  "touch 
the  hem  of  his  garment."  But  alas,  they  could  not.  They  were  com- 
pelled to  look  across  nineteen  silent  centuries  for  a  real  palpable  in- 
stance of  the  manifestation  of  the  power  of  God.  When  they  tried 
to  look  up  trustingly,  the  doubting  thought,  "God  has  not  done  anything 
during  all  these  centuries,"  would  drive  faith  from  their  hearts.  And 
so  they  "cry  aloud,  and  the  only  answer  that  comes  is  the  wail  of  their 
echoing  cry." 

But  how  different  with  the  Latter-day  Saints !  They  are  able  to 
look  up  with  undoubting  trust  in  the  God  who  not  only  did  great 
things  many  centuries  ago  but  who  has  made  bare  his  arm  to  the 
nations  in  the  day  and  time  in  which  we  live.  In  our  hearts  we  can 
say,  "I  cannot  doubt  God,  for  in  our  own  time  he  answered  the  prayer 
of  the  boy  Joseph  Smith.  He  has  sent  holy  angels  to  the  earth  with 
truth,  graces,  powers  and  authorities.  He  has  indeed  "proceeded  to 
do  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  among  this  people." 

The  world  today  socially  and  politically  is  rocking.  It  is  sitting 
upon  a  volcano.  God  only  knows  what  tomorrow  will  bring  forth.  And 
why  is  there  so  much  unrest  and  instability  all  over  the  world?  Why  is 
every  man's  hand  raised  against  his  neighbor?  Why  has  the  world 
with  the  two  thoughts  "money  and  fun"  turned  the  world  into  a  fool's 
paradise?  The  answer  to  these  questions  is  found  in  a  very  short 
sentence: — The  world  has  lost  faith  in  God.  With  the  loss  of  faith,  it 
lost  the  sense  of  moral  obligation. 

The  great  philosopher  Emanuel  Kant  said,  "Two  things  inspire  me 
with  awe,  the  starry  heavens  and  human  accountability."  This  sense 
of  "human  responsibility"  to  God  is  the  only  thing  upon  which  enduring 
civilization  can  be  built.    The  world  more  than  anything  else  needs 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSON 


83 


an  intensified  consciousness  of  its  responsibility  to  Almighty  God. 
Nothing  but  the  living,  vital  faith  that  our  Prophet  discovered  one 
hundred  years  ago  can  bring  back  to  the  human  race  the  awful 
thought,  "There  is  a  great  final  Judge  to  whom  we  are.  responsible 
for  all  our  thoughts,  aspirations  and  acts."  Only  this  thought  will 
bring  peace  to  the  nations. 

So  let  us  be  thankful,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  are  the 
legatees  of  the  riches  of  faith  and  truth  that  the  great  Prophet  of  the 
latter  days  received  from  God.  Let  us  remember  that  a  testimony  of 
these  things  is  the  only  sure  anchor  of  the  soul.  Let  us  remember 
that  outside  of  this  testimony  all  is  uncertainty,  all  is  doubt,  all  is  des- 
pair. But  with  this  firmly  rooted  testimony  in  our  hearts  our  souls 
can  be  calm,  for  we  can  endure  as  seeing  the  Divine  Weaver  behind  the 
tangled  web  of  life,  making  all  things  come  out  right  for  those  who 
do  right. 

God  help  us  to  treasure  this  testimony,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

•  _ 

ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission) 

The  thought  expressed  by  President  Jensen  that  the  world,  today, 
politically,  socially,  and  religiously,  is  rocking,  I  will  beg  the  priv- 
ilege of  stating  just  a  little  differently,  and  emphatically.  I  believe 
that  it  is  so  rocking  because  it  is  not  founded  upon  the  rock  of  revela- 
tion, as  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  con- 
cerning which  foundation  the  Lord  himself  said;  "the  gates  of  hell 
cannot  prevail." 

The  time  is  now  here,  predicted  of  old,  when  all  that  can  be  shaken 
will  be  shaken,  and,  truly  human  institutions  are  being  shaken  and  will 
fall. 

This  morning  President  Lund  called  our  attention  to  the  fact  that 
the  so-called  Christian  denominations,  in  convention,  have  ruled  us 
out  of  their  society,  as  un-Christian,  because  we  are  not  believers,  say 
they,  in  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  If 
we  are  not,  I  would  like  to  know  who  are !  That  thought  suggested 
to  me  two  very  significant  articles  I  recently  read  and  happened  to  copy 
a  few  excerpts  from.  These  notes,  with  your  permission  I  will  read 
with  such  comments  as  I  may  be  led  to  make. 

In  the  Literary  Digest  of  December  20,  1919,  the  following  article 
appeared  under  the  heading  of  "The  Church  in  a  Looking-Glass :" 

An  inquiry  which  seems  to  test  the  results  of  religious  education  of 
the  last  half  century  in  day  schools  and  Sunday  schools  has  been  made  in 
England.  The  Y.  M.  C.  A.,  desiring  to  ascertain  the  attitude  of  young 
men  of  the  army  toward  religion,  undertook  an  exhaustive  inquiry  among 
the  chaplains  who  were  with  the  young  men  at  the  front  The  result  of 
this  inquiry  appears  in  a  book  called  The  Army  and  Religion,  but  an  ex- 
cellent summary  of  the  evidence  is  given  by  Dr.  Frederick  Lynch  in  The 
Christian  Work,  from  which  we  quote. 

Questions  were  asked  of  them  concerning  their  attitude  toward  re- 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ligion,  their  faith  in  a  Supreme  Being,  and  those  things  fundamental  in 
religion.   To  these  queries  the  following  responses  were  given: 

"There  is  a  universal  belief  in  God  among  the  young  men  of  Eng- 
land, but  it  is  the  product  of  natural  religion.  There  is  little  atheism,  but 
there  is  little  evidence  that  the  knowledge  of  God  comes  from  Christian 
teaching." 

What  a  fearful  indictment  of  Christian  teaching.  This  knowl- 
edge like  their  conviction  of  the  immortality  of  the  soul,  and  their 
instinctive  turning  to  God  in  the  hour  of  danger,  is  an  organic  in- 
stinct, and  in  spite  of  teachings  to  the  contrary  concernig  the  true 
character  of  God.  They  have  deeply  rooted  in  their  soul  instinct  a 
belief  in  the  true  God.  In  the  Church  of  England  prayer  book  we  have 
these  words,  "We  believe  in  one  living  and  true  God,  of  infinite  good- 
ness, wisdom,  and  power,  without  body,  parts  or  passions."  In  other 
words,  an  incomprehensible,  immaterial  being!  Thomas  Jefferson 
expressed  himself  in  a  letter  to  his  distinguished  friend,  John  Adams, 
in  this  wise,  "When  we  speak  of  an  immaterial  existence,  we  speak 
of  nothing;  when  we  say  that  God,  angels,  and  the  human  soul  are 
immaterial,  we  say  there  is  no  God,  no  angels,  no  human  soul."  I  can- 
not reason  otherwise.  At  what  age  of  the  Christian  church  this 
heresy  of  immaterialism  or  veiled  atheism  crept  in,  I  do  not  know, 
but  heresy  it  truly  is.  Christ  taught  none  of  it.  True,  he  said,  "God 
is  a  spirit!"  but  he  had  not  yet  defined  what  spirit  is,  nor  hath  he  said 
that  it  is  immaterial.  And  the  Fathers  of  the  first  four  centuries  be- 
lieved it  to  be  material — fine,  and  etherial,  in  very  deed,  but  never- 
theless material.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  declared  that  spirit  is 
matter,  that  it  is  pure  and  elastic,  fine  and  etherial,  but  it  is  matter. 
Hence  they  found  Christianity  teaching  an  incomprehensible,  imma- 
terial, impossible  God.  Their  belief  in  him  is  not  founded  upon  the 
teaching  of  the  past  half  century. 

Concerning  the  equally  vital  question  of  belief  in  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world,  Jesus  Christ,  this  is  said : 

When  it  comes  to  thoughts  about  Jesus  Christ,  answers  are  quite  full 
and  explicit.  There  is  universal  respect  for  him,  though  the  heroic  side 
of  his  character  s'eems  largely  unknown.  There  is  little  knowledge  of  him 
as  the  Son  of  God,  the  atoning  sacrifice,  or  as  the  source  of  living  power. 
The  men  seem  seldom  to  think  of  him  until  questioned.  He  is  remote  from 
their  daily  life.  Very  many  letters  said  his  doctrines  were  womanly  and  his 
character  as  presented  in  church  sentimental.  The  "living  Christ"  is 
merely  a  name,  and  means  little  to  the  man.  Christ  is  a  historical  figure, 
not  a  present  Redeemer.  The  practical  religion  of  the  great  mass  of  men 
seems  to  be  a  vague  theism  entirely  disassociated  from  Christ. 

He  has  not  yet  been  introduced  into  their  religious  teaching  ef- 
fectively, and  they  are  coming  to  realize  that  serious  fact. 

The  same  question  has  been  discussed  by  another,  and  an  emi- 
nent one,  in  these  words : 

Present  day  attitude  of  the  general  public  toward  the  churches  was 
expressed  by  Father  Bernard  Vaughan.  "I  grieve  beyond  everything," 
he  said,  "to  have  to  say  how  my  country-folk  in  bulk  do  not  accept  the 
divine  personality  of  our  Lord,  that  is  to  say,  they  do  not  give  whole- 
hearted belief  in  the  Apostles'  Creed.    And  Christ  they  only  know  as  a 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 


85 


name  always  to  reverence  and  sometimes  to  swear  by.  Do  not  for  a 
moment  think  that  I  am  making  this  statement  without  foundation — on  the 
contrary,  what  is  thrust  before  me  more  and  more  every  day  is  that  not 
even  the  language  and  terminology  of  Christianity  is  understood  by  the 
people. 

"Read  the  latest  book  on  the  subject,  The  Army  and  Religion,  An  In- 
quiry and  Its  Bearing  on  the  Religious  Life  of  the  Nation.  It  is  com- 
piled out  of  300  memoranda  resting  on  the  evidence  of  many  hundred 
witnesses. 

"When  you  have  put  that  book  down  you  will  find  that  there  is  hide- 
ous reason,  lamentable  reason,  for  believing  that  Christ,  to  85  per  cent  of 
our  beloved  countrymen  and  countrywomen  is  today  only  one  name  among 
others,  like  Plato,  Sophocles,  or  Marcus  Aurelius. 

"To  this  growing  section  of  the  community  Christ  is  not  a  living 
force,  inspiring  their  lives  and  Christianizing  their  conduct. 

"Must  I  say  it,"  he  continued,  "that  we  are  living  upon  the  afterglow 
of  Christianity,  which  before  the  great  religious  revolt  in  the  sixteenth 
century  was  woven  not  merely  into  the  religious,  but  into  the  legislative, 
philosophic,  social  and  dom  stic  life  of  'Merrie  England'  for  1,000  years? 

"To  convert  England  to  Christianity  we  must  start  like  our  Catholic 
missionaries  among  the  heathen — with  the  children.  Alas,  parents  to  whom 
Christianity  is  nothing  and  its  dogma  worse  than  nothing  will  refuse  to 
have  their  children  respond  to.  the  Divine  Master's  call,  'Suffer  little  chil- 
dren to  come  unto  me,  and  forbid  them  not.' 

"Somebody  will  ask  me,  Is  this  neopaganism  due  to  the  war?  Not  a 
bit  of  it.    The  war  has  been  the  occasion  of  revealing  it,  that  is  all. 

"If  you  want  to  know  what  has  de-Christianized  the  country,  I  point 
my  finger  to  the  provided  school  from  which  Christ  has  been  turned  out 
and  the  door  slammed  in  his  face.  , 

"The  thought  of  it  makes  me  bury  my  face  in  my  hands  and  sob  with 
sorrow  and  shame." 

Our  conception  of  Christ,  his  relationship  to  us  as  a  mediator  be- 
tween our  Father  and  his  children  upon  the  earth,  is  to  be  found  in  the 
memorable  words  of  Paul  the  apostle,  who,  though  possessed 
of  great  wisdom  and  learning,  above  that  of  mostly  any  other  man  of 
his  time,  did  not  devote  his  time  to  the  preaching  of  higher  ethics 
or  of  any  other  problems,  but  declared  to  the  Corinthians,  "When  I 
came  to  you,  I  came  not  with  excellency  of  speech  or  of  wisdom,  de- 
claring unto  you  the  testimony  of  God.  For  I  determined  not  to  know 
any  thing  among  you,  save  Jesus  Christ,  and  him  crucified."  Why? 
Because  no  message  the  world  needed  then,  nor  today,  nor  in  any  age 
of  the  world,  equals  in  importance  that  sublime,  glorious  message  which 
you  and  I  have  had  vouchsafed  unto  us  through  the  revelations  of  the 
Almighty. 

Paul  said,  "Though  we,  or  an  angel  from  heaven,  preach  any 
other  gospel  unto  you  than  that  which  we  have  preached  unto  you, 
let  him  be  accursed."  Christianity  has  recently  been  declared  by  emi- 
nent divines  to  be  a  miserable  failure  in  the  world.  But  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  "is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation"  and  cannot  fail. 

Our  idea  concerning  that  great  Character  whom  our  Christian 
friends  say  we  do  not  believe  in,  is  expressed  in  these  sentiments  em- 
phasized by  Paul,  in  his  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews : 

God,  who  at  sundry  times  and  in  divers  manners  spake  in  time  past 
unto  the  fathers  by  the  prophets,  hath  in  these  last  days  spoken  unto  us  by 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


his  Son,  whom  he  hath  appointed  heir  of  all  things,  by  whom  also  he 
made  the  worlds;  who  being  the  brightness  of  his  glory,  and  the  express 
image  of  his  person,  and  upholding  all  things  by  the  word  of  his  power, 
when  he  had  by  himself  purged  our  sins,  sat  down  on  the  right  hand  of  the 
Majesty  on  high;  being  made  so  much  better  than  the  angels,  as  he  hath  by 
inheritance  obtained  a  more  excellent  name  than  they.  For  unto  which  of 
the  angels  said  he  at  any  time,  Thou  art  my  Son,  this  day  have  I  begotten 
thee?  And  again,  1  will  be  to  him  a  Father,  and  he  shall  be  to  me  a  Son? 
And  again,  when  he  bringeth  in  the  firstbegotten  into  the  world,  he  saith, 
And  let  all  the  angels  of  God  worship  him.  But  unto  the  Son  he  saith, 
Thy  throne,  O  God,  is  for  ever  and  ever:  a  sceptre  of  righteousness  is 
the  sceptre  of  thy  kingdom.  Thou  hast  loved  righteousness,  and  hated 
iniquity;  therefore  God,  even  thy  God,  hath  anointed  thee  with  the  oil  of 
gladness  above  thy  fellows.  And  thou,  Lord,  in  the  beginning  hast  laid 
the  foundation  of  the  earth;  and  the  heavens  are  the  works  of  thine  hands. 

If  there  be  any  doubt  as  to  the  identity  of  this  glorious  Character 
herein  described — let  this  testimony  of  John  the  beloved  disciple  of 
the  Lord  set  it  at  rest,  wherein  he  said : 

In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and 
the  Word  was  God.  The  same  was  in  the  beginning  with  God.  All  things 
were  made  by  him;  and  without  him  was  not  anything  made  that  was 
made.  In  him  was  life;  and  the  life  was  the  light  of  men.  And  the  light 
shineth  in  darkness;  and  the  darkness  comprehended  it  not.  There  was  a 
man  sent  from  God,  whose  name  was  John.  The  same  came  for  a  witness, 
to  bear  witness  of  the  Light,  that  all  men  through  him  might  believe.  He 
was  not  that  Light,  but  was  sent  to  bear  witness  of  that  Light.  That  was 
the  true  Light,  which  lighteth  every  man  that  comeh  into  the  world.  He 
was  in  the  world  and  the  world  was  made  by  him,  and  the  world  knew 
him  not.  He  came  unto  his  own,  and  his  own  leceived  him  not.  *  *  * 
And  the  Word  was  made  flesh,  and  dwelt  among  us,  (and  we  beheld  his 
glory,  the  glory  as  of  the  only  begotten  of  the  Father,)  full  of  grace  and 
truth. 

What?  The  helpless  babe  of  Bethlehem's  manger,  the  despised 
carpenter  of  Nazareth,  the  sorrowing  man  of  Gethsemane,  the  cruci- 
fied hero  of  Golgotha,  who  prayed  heaven's  forgiveness  for  his  blood- 
thirsty murderers — he  the  creator  of  heaven  and  earth?  Yes,  so  say 
the  scriptures,  and  so  we  believe,  and  so  we  testify  that  we  know. 

Unto  us  he  has  said,  "Be  ye,  therefore,  perfect,  even  as  our 
Father  in  heaven  is  perfect.  Was  he  an  immaterial  being?  Was  he  other 
than  a  glorified,  celestialized  man?  To  his  disciples,  after  his  res- 
urrection, he  appeared,  and  bade  them  behold  him  and  the  prints  of 
the  nails  in  his  hands  and  in  his  feet,  and  come  and  thrust  their 
hands  into  the  wound  in  his  side.  "Handle  me  and  see,  for  a  spirit 
hath  not  flesh  and  bone  as  ye  see  me  have." 

He  occupies  a  glorious  position  on  the  right  hand  of  our  Father,  and 
has  pointed  the  way  and  made  plain  the  path,  and  commanded  us  to 
walk  therein,  unto  his  companionship  and  glory — "For  to  him  that 
overcometh  will  I  give  to  inherit  all  things,"  said  he. 

Paul  added,  "Let  this  mind  be  in  you,  which  was  also  in  Christ 
Jesus :  Who,  being  in  the  form  of  God,  thought  it  not  robbery  to  be 
equal  with  God  *  *  *  and  was  made  in  the  likeness  of  men."  We, 
too,  are  made  in  the  image  of  God,  children  of  God.  We  believe  lit- 
erally in  the  fatherhood  of  God  and  the  brotherhood  of  man — not  as  a 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  1 VERSO N 


87 


mere  pulpit  platitude,  but  as  an  actual  reality ;  and  we  know,  because  he 
has  been  seen,  as  the  testimony  was  borne  this  morning.  Great  and  glo- 
rious is  our  privilege !  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord, 
is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excellent  word !"  Men  living  in  this  dis- 
pensation have  looked  into  the  face  and  heard  the  voice  of  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world. 

This  is  our  testimony  to  the  world,  this  is  the  message  of  the  hour, 
the  only  one  that  will  save  the  world.  "Christianity" — so  called,  "has 
failed."  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion. It  is  the  perfect  law  of  liberty.  The  Prince  of  Peace  is  the  one 
who  ordained  it  for  the  peace  of  the  world;  and  they  may  cry,  "Peace, 
peace,"  but  it  will  not  come  except  through  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  which  is  being  delivered  by  his  servants, 
who  bear  his  Priesthood,  is"  my  testimony  to  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  chorus  sang,  "Boys  of  the  Old  Brigade." 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

(President  of  the  Mexican  Mission) 

I  rejoice  very  greatly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  having  this 
privilege  of  meeting  with  you  here,  and  I  have  listened  with  great 
appreciation  and  interest  to  the  testimony  of  the  brethren  that  have 
spoken  this  afternoon.  Also,  I  was  very  greatly  interested  and  edified 
by  the  remarks  of  President  Grant  and  President  Lund  in  our  session 
in  the  Tabernacle  this  morning. 

I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord  for  these  gatherings ;  for  the  privil- 
ege that  we  as  a  people  have  of  coming  together  and  being  instructed, 
and  listening  to  the  teachings  and  the  testimonies  of  men  whom  we 
know  are  inspired  by  our  Father  in  heaven.  I  am  thankful  to  the 
Lord  that  my  lot  is  cast  with  the  people  of  this  Church;  and  though 
I  have  many,  many  things  to  be  thankful  for,  and  for  which  I,  day  by 
day,  thank  my  Heavenly  Father,  I  think  there  is  no  thing  that  I  so 
genuinely  thank  him  for  as  I  do  for  the  gospel  that  has  been  restored 
in  these  days  in  which  we  live;  for  the  gospel,  in  very  deed,  as  has 
been  referred  to  this  afternoon,  and  as  defined  by  the  Apostle  Paul,  is 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  unto  all  who  will  believe,  as,  of 
course,  those  who  believe  will  obey  it. 

I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord  for  the  testimony  and  the  knowledge 
concerning  our  Father  in  heaven  that  came  into  the  world  about  one 
hundred  years  ago,  when  the  boy  prophet,  with  a  keen  desire  in  his 
heart  sought  to  know  which  of  all  the  sects  of  the  day  was  the  church 
that  Christ  recognized.  The  greatest  revelation  that  has  come  to  the 
world,  in  all  the  history  of  it,  was  given  to  Joseph  Smith,  when  be  dis- 
covered that  our  Father  in  heaven  was  in  very  deed  a  perfect,  tangible 
being.  The  Christian  world  had  gone  astray,  and  believed  in  the  kind 
of  God  defined  in  the  English  prayer  book ;  and  other  religious  peo- 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


pies  worshiped  the  creations  more  than  the  Creator,  not  knowing  who 
God  is.  But,  through  that  glorious  vision,  the  truth  has  been  borne 
in  upon  the  world  that  God  is,  in  very  deed,  our  Father  in  heaven, 
and  that  we  are  made  in  his  likeness. 

It  is  a  very  strange  thing,  coming  at  the  time  when  it  did,  and  a 
very  hard  question  to  answer  :  Why  should  Joseph  Smith,  had  he  been 
a  mere  reformer  not  inspired  of  God,  have  conceived  of  the  great 
things  that  he  revealed  to  the  world?  Why  was  he  not  like  other 
reformers  have  been,  ever  since  men  have  taken  it  upon  themselves  to 
reform  the  religious  thoughts  and  creeds  of  the  world?  Why  should 
Joseph  Smith  have  been  singled  out  to  have  announced  this  all  im- 
portant and  great  truth  to  the  world,  if  he  had  not  been  what  we  claim 
that  he  was,  inspired  of  the  Lord,  arid  if  he  did  not  receive — as  we 
testify  that  he  did  receive — this  glorious  vision  of  the  Father  and  of 
the  Son?  I  am  thankful  for  these  things  and  for  the  restoration  of 
the  Gospel  through  this  mighty  prophet  that  the  Lord  raised  up  in 
these  the  latter  days. 

There  are  a  great  many  things  connected  with  the  coming  forth  of 
the  truth  and  the  life  and  the  prophecies  given  to  Joseph  Smith,  that  to 
me  are  wonderful.  I  challenge  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  imagine 
any  young  man  being  able  to  say  what  Joseph  said  that  the  angel  told 
him  concerning  himself,  under  similar  circumstances,  and  see  it  so 
literally  fulfilled  as  it  has  been  in  his  case.  When  the  angel  came, 
in  answer  to  his  prayer  to,  our  Father,  that  he  might  know  his  stand- 
ing before  him,  after  some  years  had  intervened  after  the  first  vision — 
when  the  angel  came  and  taught  him,  that  heavenly  messenger  quoted 
ancient  Scripture  to  him  and  outlined  to  him  the  mission  that  the  Lord 
had  called  him  unto ;  he  told  him  about  the  history  that  through  him 
would  be  made  known  unto  the  world,  of  the  ancient  people  of  this 
land,  and  he  said  to  him:  "Your  name  shall  be  known  for  good  and 
for  evil  among  all  men  everywhere."  Now,  just  keep  in.  mind  the  fact 
that  he  was  an  obscure  boy,  away  back  in  a  New  England  town;  but 
O,  how  literally  has  been  fulfilled  the  word  of  the  angel,  as  Joseph 
said  it  was  told  unto  him  ! 

At  dinner  today,  I  was  in  conversation  with  a  man  who  has  spent 
four  or  five  years  in  South  America — in  Bolivia,  in  Peru,  in  Chile,  in 
Brazil,  and  if  I  mistake  not,  I  think  he  said  he  was  "over  in  Argentine. 
He  says  that  away  down  there,  there  is  no  place  that  you  can  go  that 
the  name  of  Joseph  Smith  and  the  fame  of  the  "Mormons"  is  not 
known.  True  it  is,  that  in  many  places  it  is  known  for  evil,  but  even 
in  that,  it  fulfils  the  prophecy  of  the  Lord.  It  is  a  fact  that  we  have 
never  put  forth  any  very  great  effort  to  carry  the  message  of  "Mor- 
monism"  into  South  America.  One  mission  was  established  there,  the. 
land  was  dedicated  to  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  but  missionaries 
have  never  labored  in  South  America.  I  know  of  but  very  few  copies 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  have  been  sent  into  that  land.  They 
would  have  had  to  be  in  the  Spanish  language,  to  have  reached  the 
peoples  of  most  of  those  countries,  and  I  am  pretty  well  conversant 
with  all  that  has  been  done  with  regard  to  the  distribution  of  Spanish 


ELDER  RAY  L.  PRATT 


89 


literature  for  a  number  of  years,  and  I  know  that  it  has  not  been 
sent  there ;  but  still,  this  man,  who  is  by  the  way,  not  a  member  of  our 
Church,  testifies  that  away  back  in  the  Indian  towns,  away  back  from 
the  centers,  away  back  where  the  Spanish  language  is  scarcely  spoken, 
but  where  the  native  languages  of  those  South  American  Indians  is 
spoken,  the  name  of  Joseph  Smith  is  known. 

To  me,  it  is  a  wonderful  thing,  and  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the 
testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  Joseph  Smith  that  there  is  in  my 
heart. 

I  was  particularly  struck  this  morning  with  the  testimony  of 
President  Grant.  He  testified  that  he  knew  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  the  gospel  has  been  restored  in  these  the 
last  days.  He  said,  there  will  be  some  of  you  who  will  say  that  you 
cannot  accept  it,  that  you  cannot  believe  it,  but  all  the  disbelief  and 
all  the  ridicule  and  all  the  denial  of  those  who  cannot  believe  cannot 
take  that  testimony  out  of  the  hearts  of  thousands  of  people — from  the 
land  of  the  midnight  sun  in  the  Scandinavian  countries,  to  South 
Africa,  and  from  the  north  of  North  America  to  South  America,  in 
this  land,  among  men  and  women  everywhere  upon  the  face  of  the 
whole  earth  (though  it  is  true  in  sections  they  are  few  in  number). 
The  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  Joseph  Smith  in  the 
earth  as  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  is  being  borne  daily  throughout  the 
world,  everywhere ;  and  I  have  heard  men  testify  until  it  seemed  that 
their  testimony  pierced  the  very  center  of  my  soul,  here  from  the 
stand  in  the  Tabernacle ;  I  have  heard  them  testify  in  the  stakes  of 
Zion,  I  have  heard  them  testify  in  the  wards  of  the  Church ;  and  I 
have  heard  them  testify  in  the  mission  fields,  here  in  the  United 
States  and  in  Mexico  and  all  over  and  up  and  down  the  land ;  but  the 
testimonies  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church  do  not  differ  in  sincerity  or 
in  genuineness,  from  the  testimonies  of  the  humble  members  of  the 
Church  everywhere.  For,  as  my  heart  has  been  touched  here  by  the 
testimonies,  those  unmistakable,  spiritual  testimonies  that  carry  con- 
viction to  the  hearts  of  men,  so  has  my  heart  been  touched  by  the 
testimonies  of  the  simple  natives  of  the  land  where  I  have  been  called 
to  labor  for  so  many  years. 

I  recall  now  having  held  meetings  in  their  little  dwellings,  built 
perhaps  of  corn  stalks  and  thatched  over  with  banana  leaves,  and  in 
the  night  time,  when  we  have  gathered  together,  after  these  same  peo- 
ple had  worked  during  the  tropical  heat  of  the  day  and  nearly  worn 
themselves  out  we  have  gathered  together,  and  with  the  light  of  a 
mere  tallow  candle,  scarcely  enough  to  see  to  read  by,  I  have  seen  them 
stand  up  and  I  have  seen  their  countenances  brightened  by  the  same 
spirit,  and  heard  them  bear  the  same  strong  testimony  that  carries  con- 
viction to  the  hearts  of  men,  that  I  have  heard  from-  our  brethren 
here;  and  I  want  to  bear  to  you  this  afternoon,  my  testimony  that  I 
know  that  this  is  the  Lord's  work;  I  know  that  it  shall  go  on 
triumphant,  and  shall  spread  and  shall  be  established  in  all  the  earth — 
and  ultimately  the  time  will  come  when  all  men  everywhere  will  ac- 
knowledge that  this  is  the  truth.   Just  as  I  expect  to  see  the  day  come, 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


some  time,  somewhere,  when  every  knee  shall  bow  to  Christ,  and 
every  tongue  confess  that  he  is  the  Savior  of  the  world,  so  do  I  ex- 
pect to  see  the  time  come  when  every  tongue  will  confess  this  great 
truth,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God.  Men  may  not  confess 
it  because  they  want  to.  All  men  that  will  confess  it,  perhaps,  will 
not  repent  of  their  sins;  but  conditions  will  be  brought  about  by  the 
calamities  that  the  Lord  will  send  upon  the  world  and  his  punishments 
meted  out  to  men,  until  men  cannot  deny,  but  will  confess,  even  though 
they  will  not  repent,  that  these  things  are  true. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  know  that  this  is  the  truth.  We  are 
a  remarkable  people  in  that  respect.  I  have  attended  testimony  meet- 
ings in  many  churches — only  the  other  day,  when  I  was  stopping  off 
a  few  hours  at  Trinidad,  over  in  Colorado,  I  saw  a  little  hall  lit  up, 
and  went  in  to  the  service  that  was  held  there,  and  it  was  a  testimony 
service,  and  I  listened  attentively.  I  listened  anxiously,  and  I  wanted 
to  hear  somebody  say  that  they  knew  that  they  had  the  truth,  and 
while  many  testified,  none  testified  that  they  knew,  and  never  have  I 
heard  anybody  outside  of  the  membership  of  this  Church,  stand  up 
and  say  that  they  know  that  the  gospel  that  they  have  embraced  is 
the  truth  and  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

This  Church,  brethren  and  sisters,  has  been  built  upon  the  rock 
of  testimony.  Joseph  Smith,  when  he  came  home  from  this  remark- 
able vision,  brought  down  upon  himself,  by  a  recital  of  what  he  had 
seen,  the  hatred  and  the  persecution  of  all  the  world,  it  seemed,  and 
he  was  never  free  from  it  from  that  day  until  he  gave  his  life,  sealed 
his  testimony  with  his  blood ;  and  he  tells  us  in  this  book,  The  Pearl 
of  Great  Price,  in  the  Writings  of  Joseph  Smith,  that  he  was  given 
to  understand  that  if  he  would  only  forsake  that  testimony  or  forsake 
that  story  and  say  that  he  had  been  deceived,  he  would  end  all  the 
persecution  that  had  been  heaped  upon  him,  and  that  he  would  be 
received  as  all  other  men  again ;  and  that  his  sorrows  should  not  con- 
tinue in  that  regard;  but,  he  said.  How  could  I?  I  knew  that  I  had 
seen  a  light  and  I  knew  that  within  the  light  I  had  seen  two  person- 
ages, and  I  knew  that  I  had  heard  their  Voices,  and  I  knew  that  they 
had  spoken  to  me,  and  further  than  that,  I  knew  that  God  knew  that 
I  knew  those  things,  and  who  am  I  that  I  might  withstand  God  ? 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  his  testimony  was  faithful  and  true  to 
the  end  of  his  life ;  and  the  same  has  been  the  case  in  regard  to  many 
of  the  members  of  this  Church,  some  of  them  in  obscure  circumstances, 
and  some  perhaps  that  will  never  be  heard  of,  but  were  in  their  sphere 
and  in  their  place  just  as  valiant  in  their  testimonies  and  in  their  de- 
fense of  the  truth  as  was  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  And  that  is  one 
blessing  in  this  Church,  we  do  not  all  have  to  be  prophets,  in  the  sense 
that  he  was,  in  the  Kingdom  of  God,  but  we  do  all  have  to  have  faith, 
we  do  all  have  to  repent,  we  do  all  have  to  live  right,  and  we  must, 
each  one  of  us,  have  the  same  testimony  that  he  had,  or  we  cannot  be 
saved  in  the  Kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  Heroism  is  not  con- 
fined to  those  alone  who  are  great  in  the  eyes  of  men. 

I  recall  an  incident  just  now  that  I  shall  beg  your  indulgence 


ELDER  RAY  L.  PRATT 


91 


to  speak  of,  that  happened  away  down  in  the  land  of  Mexico,  where 
I  have  been  laboring.  In  the  year  1913,  conditions  became  so  bad  in 
Mexico  that  upon  the  advice  of  President  Smith,  we  decided  to  leave 
the  mission  for  a  time  and  move  out  of  the  country,  and  with  my  fam- 
ily and  the  seven  elders  that  were  left  with  us  then,  we  were  making 
preparations  to  go.  I  sent  word  to  the  branches  round  about.  We 
had  been  preparing  them  for  it  for  two  years.  We  had  every  branch, 
as  we  thought,  that  could  be  organized  into  a  branch,  fully  organized, 
and  we  had  told  the  people  that  perchance  we  might  be  called  upon 
to  leave  them  for  a  time,  but  wanted  them  to  be  in  a  condition  to  take 
care  of  themselves ;  but  just  in  the  afternoon  of  the  day  upon  which  we 
were  to  leave  in  the  evening,  a  young  man,  who  only  two  months  be- 
fore had  been  baptized  a  member  of  the  Church  with  his  two  sisters 
and  a  little  later  his  mother  and  his  wife  and  a  young  friend  of  the 
family  and,  I  think,  one  or  two  more  in  that  particular  locality,  came 
into  the  mission  house,  and  there  was  sorrow  in  his  face,  and  as  he 
clasped  my  hand,  he  said :  "Brother  Pratt,  is  it  true  that  you  are  going 
away?  Is  it  true  that  the  missionaries  are  going  to  leave  us?"  I  said, 
"Yes,-  Brother  Monroy,  it  seems  that  that  is  the  wisest  thing  to  do." 
And  he  said:  "Well,  I  have  been  around  and  visited  the  other  con- 
ferences and  branches  some,  and  I  know  that  they  have  their  branch 
organizations  and  their  conferences  and  the  Priesthood  of  the  Lord, 
and  they  can  get  along  in  some  sort  of  way;  but  what  is  going  to 
become  of  us?  We  have  no  branch.  Who  will  teach  us?  Who  will 
guide  us?   Who  will  carry  us  forward  in  this  great  work?" 

Well,  it  seemed  to  me  I  could  not  do  other  than  I  did.  I  said, 
"Dear  brother,  please  sit  down  in  that  chair ;"  and  I  called  the  secre- 
tary of  the  mission  into  the  room  and  said,  "Brother  Young,  we  will 
ordain  .this  good  brother  an  elder  and  set  him  apart  to  preside  over 
the  branch  in  San  Marcos,  though  there  are  perchance  only  ten  people 
there  members  of  the  Church.  And  we  set  him  apart  as  branch  presi- 
dent, after  having  ordained  him  an  elder  in  the  Church ;  and  I  said, 
Brother,  you  go  back  up  there  and  gather  your  little  branch  of  peo- 
ple together,  and  tell  them  of  this.  We  have  not  time  to  go  and  tell 
them  about  it.  And  I  gave  him  a  letter.  And  I  said,  you  take  care 
of  them  as  best  you  can ;  put  your  faith  and  trust  in  the  Lord  and  he 
will  bless  you  and  magnify  you,  and  you  will  be  an  instrument  for  good 
in  that  community. 

That  night  we  left,  and  he  took  the  train  back  to  his  home.  For 
two  years  during  the  troublous  times  that  followed,  I  received  letters 
from  him,  and  they  are  among  the  things  that  I  treasure  most  in  life, 
for  they  are  full  of  faith  and  they  are  full  of  devotion  to  the  Lord, 
and  they  are  full  of  love  toward  his  fellow  men.  He  went  to  work 
and  gathered  his  people  together  and  began  to  hold  meetings;  and 
from  that  humble  beginning,  it  was  not  more  than  a  year  until  from 
seventy-five  to  one  hundred  people  were  meeting  there  regularly, 
and  in  the  two  years  that  he  presided  over  that  little  branch,  something 
like  sixty  people  were  added  to  the  Church  as  a  direct  result  of  his 
humble  and  faithful  labors. 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


But  in  the  events  that  have  swept  over  Mexico  like  a  scourge,  the 
revolution  came  to  his  town,  and  the  opposing  factions  from  the  north 
and  south  were  contending,  with  the  little  town  of  San  Marcos  between 
them,  the  Saints  living  virtually  and  literally  upon  the  firing  line,  and 
day  after  day  the  conflict  raged,  and  the  Saints  one  Sunday  held  their 
meetings  while  the  shells  from  either  side  were  falling  over  their  meet- 
ing house,  but  they  continued  with  their  services. 

Finally  the  faction  from  the  north  were  driven  out,  and  the  men 
from  the  band  of  Zapata  came  in,  and  someone  said,  "There  is  a  man 
over  there  who  has  been  assisting  the  people  of  the  other  faction,  he 
has  been  a  colonel  in  the  other  army.  These  people  from  the  south 
are  infinitely  fanatic.  I  never  saw  anything  like  it.  They  go  to  war 
with  an  image  of  the  Virgin  Mary  tied  around  their  necks ;  and  every- 
body who  will  not  believe  as  they  do,  they  think  they  have  a  perfect 
right  to  exterminate.  They  arrested  this  dear  brother  of  ours,  and  they 
asked  him  if  he  had  a  store  of  arms,  and  he  said  no.  It  seemed  to  be 
a  habit  of  his  from  the  time  he  was  converted,  always  to  carry  in  his 
pocket  the  Bible  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  he  drew  them  out  and 
said,  "These  are  my  arms,  and  I  have  carried,  and  I  carry  them  to 
benefit,  not  to  destroy  my  fellownnen."  And  they  took  him  and  a 
young  man  who  was  in  the  same  house,  a  member  of  the  Church  also, 
to  a  big  tree  and  put  a  noose  around  their  necks  and  strung  them  up 
until  they  had  fainted,  and  then  let  them  down  and  revived  both  of 
them  again  and  gave  them  another  chance  if  they  would  only  tell 
where  their  arms  were  and  say  that  they  would  renounce  their  strange 
religion — for  among  the  accusations  brought  against  him  was  this,  that 
he  was  teaching  a  strange  religion  and  strange  gods  and  carrying  the 
people  of  the  community  after  him. 

He  said,  "I  cannot  do  it,  for  I  know  that  what  I  have  received 
is  true  and  I  cannot  renounce  my  religion." 

His  two  sisters,  on  learning  what  had  become  of  him,  went  up  and 
asked  the  general  to  release  him,  but  they  were  thrown  into  prison 
with  him.  Instead  of  sorrowing,  he  took  his  Bible  and  Book  of  Mor- 
mon and  among  the  other  prisoners  tried  to  teach  the  gospel.  About 
eveningtime  the  good,  old,  widowed  mother  sent  a  little  basket  of 
food  to  the  little  adobe  house  where  they  were  confined.  And  this 
brother,  before  they  prepared  the  supper,  out  in  that  little  humble  place, 
asked  the  guards  to  give  him  some  water.  He  said  he  wanted  to  wash 
himself,  his  neck  was  chafed  where  the  rope  had  been.  And  he  care- 
fully washed  himself  and  combed  his  hair,  and  then  when  they  spread 
the  food  out,  he  said  to  those  present,  "If  you  have  no  objections,  we 
would  like  to  ask  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  this  food."  In  a  voice 
that  all  could  hear,  he  asked  the  Lord  to  bless  that  food,  but  in  a  voice 
that  only  his  sisters  could  hear,  he  said,  "I  will  not  eat  tonight,  I  am 
fasting  and  praying  to  the  Lord." 

It  was  not  ten  minutes  before  they  said  they  wanted  these  two  men 
outside.  The  girls  stopped  eating,  of  course,  and  the  two  men  were 
taken  out.  It  was  then  just  dusk,  and  they  were  backed  up  against  a 
great  ash  tree — I  can  see  it  just  as  plainly  as  if  it  were  here;  for  I 


ELDER  RAY  L.  PRATT 


93 


have  seen  it  and  I  have  heard  the  mother  and  the  daughters  recite 
the  sad  experience — and  six  men  were  lined  up  to  shoot  them,  and  an- 
other said,  "Now,  as  one  last  chance,  we  tell  you  if  you  will  renounce 
your  religion  and  confess  before  the  Virgin  Mary,  we  will  forgive  you 
and  we  will  spare  your  lives." 

He  said,  "Gentlemen,  I  cannot,  for  I  know  that  what  I  have  taught 
and  what  I  have  accepted  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ." 

They  said,  "All  right,  then  prepare  yourself,  but  have  you  anything 
to  say  before  you  are  executed?" 

"Yes,"  he  said,  "I  will  make  one  last  request,  that  I  be  permitted 
to  kneel  here  and  pray."  And  he  knelt  there  and  prayed.  He  prayed 
first  that  the  Lord  would  bless  his  widowed  mother  and  provide  for 
her,  and  bless  his  wife  and  little  child,  who  would  be  left  a  widow 
and  orphan ;  then  he  prayed  for  the  little  branch,  and  he  said :  "Lord 
bless  this  little  flock  that  they  may  not  go  astray,  but  that  someone 
will  be  raised  up  to  lead  them."  And  then  he  turned  and  said :  "Lord, 
forgive  these  men,  for  they  know  not  what  they  do,"  and  as  he  arose 
from  the  ground,  he  folded  his  arms  and  said:  "Gentlemen,  I  am  at 
your  service." 

A  moment  or  two  later,  the  daughters  in  that  little  adobe  room, 
and  the  mother  a  quarter  of  a  mile  further  on,  heard  the  sound  of  the 
guns  that  killed  their  brother  and  their  son. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  what  was  it  that  took  that  man  smiling  and 
with  faith  like  that  to  his  execution?  It  was  none  other  than  the 
same  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith  bore  to  the  world  to  the  very  day 
that  he  sealed  his  testimony  with  his  blood.  And  I  would  rather  be  in 
their  class  and  give  up,  if  the  Lord  required  it  at  my  hands,  my  life, 
than  to  be  the  owner  of  all  the  world  and  not  have  that  testimony  with 
it. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  not  all  privileged  to  die  in  that  way 
for  the  work  of  the  Lord,  but  it  is  required  of  each  and  every  one  of 
us  to  live  each  day  in  fulfilment  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel  and 
to  bring  our  lives  into  harmony  with  this  great  scheme  of  the  gospel, 
for  only  as  we  do  so,  will  it  be  unto  us  "the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion." 

The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 
The  Chorus  sang,  "The  Palms." 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

(President  of  the  Ensign  Stake  of  Zion  and  of  the  Western  States  Mission) 

There  is  only  a  few  minutes  remaining  and  I  sincerely  pray 
for  the  inspiration  of  this  occasion,  and  desire  the  same  good  spirit 
that  has  accompanied  the  remarks  of  the  former  speakers,  for  my 
heart  has  been  touched  by  their  fervent  testimonies,  and  the  words  of 
exhortation  and  counsel  they  have  given. 

It  was  not  my  good  fortune  to  be  in  attendance  at  the  morning 
service  in  the  tabernacle,  as  I  did  not  arrive  until  the  noon  hour.  I 


()4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


feel  that  I  missed  something,  for  the  opening  sessions  of  our  con- 
ferences have  always  been  a  wonderful  inspiration  to  me.  Usually 
the  key  note  of  the  conference  is  sounded  by  the  prophet  of  the  Lord, 
the  doctrines  of  the  Church  are  expounded  to  the  understanding  of 
the  Saints,  and  where  reproof  is  needed,  it  is  given. 

I  have  listened  with  much  interest  to  the  remarks  of  my  brethren. 
The  conditions  they  find  in  their  various  fields  of  labor  are  much 
the  same  as  prevail  in  the  Western  States  mission.  My  heart  is  filled 
with  joy  when  I  meet  the  Saints  in  the  various  branches  of  the 
Church,  and  also  with  isolated  families  far  removed  from  any  Church 
organization,  and  listen  to  their  fervent  testimonies,  a  band  of  faith- 
ful, self-sacrificing  Latter-day  Saints  into  whose  lives  has  come 
a  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  men  and  women  who 
not  only  welcome  the  elders,  but  pray  for  their  coming. 

Elder  Pratt's  remarks  with  reference  to  Trinidad  interested  me. 
I  recently  visited  our  Church  members  there,  for  we  have  a  few  hon- 
est-hearted people  there  who  have  accepted  the  gospel,  and  who  tread 
unswervingly  the  pathway  of  duty,  undeterred  by  doubts,  singleminded, 
and  straight  forward.  There  is  rejoicing  in  their  hearts  and  a  feeling 
of  salvation  has  come  into  their  lives.  They,  like  Job  of  old,  testify, 
"I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives."  Christ  to  them  is  the  very  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  and  Joseph  Smith  is  his  prophet. 

The  gospel  taught  by  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  Joseph  Smith  came  not 
as  did  Luther,  Calvin,  Knox,  Wesley  and  many  other  re- 
formers, whose  lives  have  influenced  so  many  people  in  various  parts 
of  the  world,  and  whose  teachings  have  done  so  much  to  break 
the  shackles  that  bound  the  people  throughout  the  dark  ages,  but  he 
came  as  a  restorer  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  gave  unto  the 
world  the  gospel  in  its  fulness. 

The  tendency  in  the  world  is  to  humanize  religion,  eliminating 
all  Divinity  out  of  it.  One  of  the  so  called  "Advanced"  churches 
of  New  York  City,  according  to  Leslie's  Weekly,  has  resolved  to  abol- 
ish all  reference  to  "sect,  class,  nation,  or  race,"  and  has  a  new  bond 
of  union  to  be  signed  by  all  its  members.  To  do  this  it  deems  it  neces- 
sary to  adopt  a  new  "statement  of  purpose"  from  which  mention  of 
Christ  and  Christianity  is  omitted.  Public  announcement  is  made 
that  the  "church  has  dropped  Jesus." 

We  have  people  in  Denver  who  follow  the  teachings  of  the  Marlein 
Bible,  written  by  Rev.  Marley,  the  head  of  the  church,  in  which  men 
are  forbidden  to  mention  God  or  Jesus  in  their  prayers,  and  to  do  so 
would  be  considered  heresy  and  sufficient  cause  for  excommunication 
from  the  church.  Indeed,  sample  prayers  for  all  occasions  and  the 
blessing  for  food  are  given  without  a  single  reference  to  our  Father 
in  heaven  or  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  It  may  interest  you  to  know 
that  their  church  government  is  planned  after  our  own,  with  a 
president  and  twelve  apostles,  six  of  whom  are  women.  Also  a  high 
council  of  twelve  persons,  half  of  whom  are  women.    The  leader  con- 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


05 


fesses  be  is  acquainted  with  the  doctrines  and  organization  of  the 
"Mormon"  Church.  Truly,  they  have  a  form  of  Godliness  but  deny 
the  power  thereof. 

How  different  with  our  people,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  who  have 
implicit  faith  in  God  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  They  believe  that 
be  really  is,  and  that  he  is  a  rewarder  of  them  that  diligently  seek  him, 
that  through  the  Holy  Ghost  they  may  know  him.  Paul  the  apostle 
writing  to  the  Corinthian  Saints,  (I  Cor.  12)  declared,  "Ye  know 
that  ye  were  Gentiles,  carried  away  unto  these  dumb  idols,  even  as 
ye  were  led.  Wherefore  I  give  you  to  understand,  that  no  man  speak- 
ing by  the  Spirit  of  God  calleth  Jesus  accursed :  and  that  no  man  can 
say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord,  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost."  Latter-day  Saints 
receive  this  witness,  and  many  of  them  would  sacrifice  their  lives,  as 
did  the  Mexican  brother  referred  to  by  Elder  Pratt,  rather  than  deny 
the  truth  that  had  become  a  part  of  their  lives.  The  beauty  of  it  all  is, 
God  is  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  all  men  everywhere  are  invited 
to  partake  freely  of  these  wonderful  gifts.  In  Doc.  and  Cov.  1 :35  it  is 
recorded : 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  I  the 
Lord  am  willing  to  make  these  things  known  unto  all  flesh,  for  I  am  no 
respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know  that  the  day  speedily 
cometh;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when  peace  shall  be  taken 
from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over  his  own  dominion;  and 
also  the  Lord  shall  have  power  over  his  Saints,  and  shall  reign  in  their 
midst;  and  shall  come  down  in  judgment  upon  Idumea,  or  the  world.  Search 
these  commandments  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the  prophecies  and 
promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled.  What  I  the  Lord  have 
spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself:  and  though  the  heavens 
and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass  away,  but  shall  be  ful- 
filled, whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice  of  my  servants,  it  is  the 
same;  for  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is  God,  and  the  Spirit  beareth  record, 
and  the  record  is  true,  and  the  truth  abideth  forever  and  ever. 

I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  that  has  come  into  my  life  to  bear 
witness  of  these  things  to  the  people  of  the  earth,  it  brings  peace  and 
satisfaction  to  my  soul ;  and  I  pray  that  so  long  as  I  have  power  to  lift 
my  voice,  it  may  be  in  defense  of  this  great  Latter-day  work,  known 
to  the  world  as  "Mormonism."  It  is  bound  to  succeed.  It  cannot  be 
overcome  by  the  powers  of  darkness.  God  has  so  decreed.  We  meet 
with  a  great  deal  of  opposition  from  certain  quarters,  and  I  am  rather 
glad  of  it,  it  not  only  advertises  us,  but  it  puts  the  missionaries  on  edge, 
makes  them  aggressive,  and  more  determined  to  deliver  their  message 
to  the  people.  The  elders  of  the  Western  States  mission  are  crying 
repentance  unto  the  people,  and  inviting  all  to  come  unto  Christ.  I 
thank  God  for  them,  and  for  their  faith  and  devotion  to  this  great  cause. 
I  pray  that  the  spirit  of  peace  may  abide  in  your  hearts,  that  God  will 
abundantly  bless  you,  with  the  Holy  Spirit  that  you  may  have  implicit 
faith  in  this  great  Latter-day  work,  and  power  given  you  to  live  its 
principles,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

The  chorus  sang  ."Do  What  is  right." 

Benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  S.  Barker. 


SECOND  [DAY 


Conference  continued  in  the  Tabernacle,  Monday  April  5,  at  10  a.  m. 
Congregation  was  called  to  order  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
who  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for 
a  prophet." 

Elder  Peter  G.  Johnston,  member  of  the  general  auditing  com- 
mittee, offered  prayer. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye 
Saints  of  the  Lord." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 
Salvation  so  designated  means  temporal  as  well  as  eternal  salvation. 

THE  GOSPEL  COMPREHENDS  OUR  WHOLE  COURSE  OF  LIVING. 

I  believe  that  within  the  plan  of  the  gospel  are  laid  down  all  of  the 
laws  and  principles  that  underlie  our  lives,  here  and  hereafter.  It 
sets  forth  a  rule  of  action  for  our  conduct  that  leads  us  to  happiness 
and  joy  in  this  life,  as  well  as  to  exaltation  in  the  life  to  come.  An  in- 
terpretation of  the  gospel  is  desirable,  in  order  that  men  may  know 
what  is  held  out  to  them  by  it  and  in  it.  Its  fundamental  laws  and 
principles  comprehend  completely  our  whole  course  of  living. 

HEALTH. 

The  gospel  lays  down  the  rules  that  will  bring  to  us  one  of  the 
first  essentials,  that  of  health.  There  is  contained  within  that  simple 
and  understandable  law  of  the  Church,  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  princi- 
ples, commandments,  exhortations  which,  if  lived  up  to  and  obeyed, 
insure  health.  That  health  is  desirable  goes  without  saying.  I  know 
of  no  other  people  who  take  quite  the  same  view  of  the  human  body 
as  do  we.  We  regard  the  body  as  something  more  than  an  organiza- 
tion of  the  materials  of  this  earth.  The  body  to  us  has  a  religious  as 
well  as  a  temporal  significance.  The  body  is  the  tabernacle  wherein  is 
housed  our  spirit,  which  is  a  child  of  God  and  which  is  our  greatest 
possession.  We  cannot  desecrate  these  bodies  that  have  been  given 
to  us  without  offering  affront  to  him  who  gave  them.  They  are  sacred 
to  us.  It  is  our  obligation  to  preserve  them  in  purity  and  in  whole- 
someness.  We  are  taught  that  we  cannot  live  proper  and  righteous 
lives  without  caring  for  our  bodies  in  a  proper  and  righteous  way.  We 
cannot  take  into  our  bodies  those  things  forbidden  without  desecrating 
them,  without  militating  against  the  efficiency  of  the  body,  and  with- 
out bringing  upon  us  the  effects  which  follow  the  infraction  of  natural 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS. 


97 


and  just  laws  concerning  health.  So  that  if  one  would  have  health,  he 
should  live  the  laws  of  the  gospel  with  reference  to  health. 

WEALTH. 

The  gospel  teaches  the  fundamental  laws  of  wealth — its  aquisi- 
tion  and  proper  use.  It  teaches  industry,  thrift  and  economy ;  honesty 
in  business  and  unselfishness.  It  points  out  that  all  means  and  sub- 
stances are  gifts  from  God,  committed  to  the  care  of  men  as  stewards 
or  trustees,  to  be  used  for  the  benefit  and  advancement  of  the  people  of 
the  world.  It  tells  us  the  real  meaning  of  proprietorship.  It  attaches 
to  wealth,  as  it  does  to  every  other  material  thing,  a  religious  signifi- 
cance and  makes  plain  its  proper  relation  to  our  lives. 

It  bids  us  return  a  portion  of  our  interest  to  the  Lord  for  the  im- 
mediate use  of  his  Church  and  Kingdom,  thereby  ever  reminding  and 
impressing  us  with  the  true  source  of  our  riches.  If  the  gospel  con- 
ception of  wealth  were  prevalent  in  the  world  there  would  be  no  such 
estrangement  between  rich  and  poor,  between  so-called  capital  and 
labor,  as  we  see  today.  The  perplexing  problem  of  its  just  distribution 
would  be  solved  and  a  large  portion  of  the  difficulties  of  human  so- 
ciety would  be  eliminated. 

SOCIAL  ORDER. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  lays  down  also  the  laws  which  provide 
for  the  proper  maintenance  of  our  social  order.  By  adherence  to  its 
principles  man  learns,  in  the  first  place,  his  relationship  to  society; 
and,  in  the  second  place,  to  act  in  such  manner  as  to  properly  dis- 
charge his  obligations  to  his  fellowman.  Every  problem  that  con- 
fronts society  today  has  its  solution  in  the  application  of  the  simple 
principles  of  the  gospel  to  human  life  and  living.  The  gospel  points 
out  that  the  foundation  of  society  is  the  home,  and  the  marital  rela- 
tion. We  are  advised  in  the  gospel  what  that  relationship  should  be, 
what  it  should  produce,  and  how  it  should  stand  at  the  basis  of  all 
social  order.  So  far  as  I  know,  there  are  no  other  people  who  sub- 
scribe to  the  same  doctrines  in  which  we  believe,  concerning  the  in- 
stitution of  marriage,  the  perpetuity  of  that  relationship,  and  the  re- 
lationship of  children  to  parents.  The  application  of  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  to  this  relationship  means  good  homes.  Good  homes 
mean  good  communities.  Good  communities  cannot  mean  anything 
other  than  a  great,  good  nation,  a  good  country,  a  good  people. 

Not  only  are  we  taught  that  our  homes  are  at  the  very  foundation 
of  our  social  order  and  relations,  but  we  are  taught  in  the  gospel  the 
proper  relationship  of  man  to  man.  Charity,  kindness,  benevolence, 
long-suffering  one  with  another,  brotherly  help  are  all  principles  em- 
braced within  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  all  of  them  are  necessary 
to  build  and  maintain  a  society  that  shall  be  fit  for  people  to  live  in, 
and  to  be  advanced  in.  We  are  given  the  institutions  of  the  Church,  in 
part,  at  least,  to  sustain  the  proper  social  intercourse  among  the  peo- 
ple.   There  are  provided  within  the  Church  agencies  and  facilities, 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


which  meet  every  requirement  of  social  life.  Our  wards,  to  my  think- 
ing, constitute  the  most  advantageous  social  units  that  have  ever  been 
devised  or  suggested  in  the  history  of  society.  There  are  presented 
within  the  organizations  of  the  wards  opportunities  for  every  person 
to  receive  legitimate  training  in  society,  proper  social  intercourse  and 
the  cultivation  of  all  the  desirable  traits  of  character  that  go  to  make 
up  good  men  and  good  women. 

GOVERNMENT. 

Not  only  does  the  gospel  provide  the  laws,  the  rules  and  the 
regulations  that  govern  health,  wealth,  and  society,  but  the  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel  lie  at  the  very  foundation  of  just  government. 

The  teaching  of  reverence,  of  obedience,  of  respect  for  law,  order 
and  authority  is  indispensable  to  the  maintenance  of  proper  and  just 
government.  Men  who  have  not  been  taught  to  respect  authority, 
whether  that  authority  be  superimposed  upon  them,  or  from  whatever 
source  it  comes,  will  not  respect  the  authority  that  they  themselves  set 
up.  I  believe  firmly  that  men  who  believe  in  God,  men  who- believe 
in  his  power  to  rule,  to  lay  down  laws  for  their  guidance  and  direction, 
are  trained  by  virtue  of  that  belief  to  be  the  proper  subjects  of  govern- 
ment. I  believe  that  such  training  is  indispensable  to  good  citizenship. 
Obedience  is  not  only  the  first  law  of  heaven,  but  obedience  is  the 
fundamental  requirement  of  all  good  government,  and  until  men  can 
come  to  realize  that  they  must  yield  obedience  to  the  law  and  the 
authority  which  has  been  established,  there  can  never  be  any  proper 
legitimate  and  adequate  government. 

( 

HAPPINESS. 

Not  only  does  the  gospel  lay  down  the  laws  and  rules  which 
provide  for  health  and  wealth  for  the  maintenance  of  society,  for 
government,  but  it  lays  down  the  foundation  for  that  which  is  indis- 
pensable in  human  life,  real,  genuine  happiness.  There  can  be  no 
true  happiness  and  no  true  joy,  in  my  judgment,  without  righteous- 
ness. When  I  say  happiness  and  joy,  I  do  not  miean  the  superficial 
pleasure  that  comes  to  one  in  the  gratification  of  personal  appetite 
and  desire.  I  refer  to  that  inner  feeling  of  satisfaction,  contentment, 
love  and  genuine  joy,  that  come  to  the  man  with  a  clear  conscience, 
a  life  devoid  of  offense,  with  love  for  God  and  his  fellowmen  in  his 
heart.  That  supreme  happiness  and  joy,  so  far  as  our  experience  goes, 
can  be  obtained  only  in  one  way.  That  is  by  willingly-given  service  in 
the  cause  of  our  Father  in  Heaven,  for  the  benefit  of  his  children.  The 
gospel  provides  the  ways  and  means  in  which  that  service  can  be 
most  efficiently  done.  The  organizations  of  the  Church  are  estab- 
lished in  such  manner  that  service  may  be  rendered  by  everyone  with- 
in its  membership  to  the  ultimate  benefit  of  every  other  member.  It 
is  a  mutual  plan  whereby  each  may  help  every  other  and  the  common 
good  may  be  promoted. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS. 


99 


UNDERSTANDING   THE   ALL-COMPREHENDING    NATURE   OF   THE  GOSPEL, 

WHAT  IS  OUR  DUTY? 

So  that,  in  brief,  the  gosel  fulfils  every  requirement  of  a  hu- 
man life.  It  satisfies  every  need.  It  is  so  comprehensive  that  it  em- 
braces all  the  good  that  we  desire  to  be  brought  into  our  lives  and  it 
helps  us  to  work  out  our  salvation  here  and  hereafter.  What  is  our 
duty?  Our  duty,  in  my  judgment,  is  to  so  interpret  this  great  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  that  men  and  women  everywhere  shall  know 
what  it  means,  that  they  shall  know  its  great  significance  in  the  de- 
velopment of  their  lives  and  in  their  salvation.  It  is  our  first  duty  to 
so  interpret  it  for  our  children  and  for  our  people  at  home  that  they 
will  see  it  and  understand  it ;  for  I  cannot  but  think  that  if  they  can 
be  brought  to  realize  what  it  means  in  their  lives,  the  security  that  it 
gives  them  against  the  incursion  of  evil  and  danger,  the  happiness 
and  joy  that  it  insures  to  them  by  obedience  to  its  teachings  and  com- 
mandments, they  will  not  fail  to  lay  hold  of  it.  Our  second  duty  is 
to  present  it  to  the  world  in  like  manner.  I  cannot  bring  myself  to 
think  that  we  discharge  our  full  obligation  when  we  merely  issue  the 
challenge  to  the  world  and  set  forth  that  here  is  the  everlasting  gospel, 
the  authority  of  God,  the  power  to  save,  without  explaining,  persuad- 
ing and  inviting  the  men  and  the  women  of  the  world  to  join  in  this 
great  life-saving  plan.  I  believe  it  to  be  our  obligation  to  present  these 
great  truths  in  such  manner,  both  to  ourselves  at  home  and  our  fellow 
men  in  the  world,  that  their  real  significance  shall  be  felt,  that  men 
shall  be  acquainted'  with  their  great  need,  and  that  they  shall  know 
that  in  no  other  way  than  by  compliance  with  the  laws,  the  rules  and 
regulations  of  the  gospel  can  they  achieve  the  great  purpose  of  life 
and  be  brought  back  into  the  presence  of  God  from  whom  they  came. 
Our  Church  is  a  great  institution.  Favorable  attention  to  many  of 
our  principles  has  come  from  various  parts  of  the  world.  Many 
there  are  who  have  come  to  look  upon  us  as  a  great  people.  Let  me 
say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  shall  not  discharge  the 
full  obligation  that  our  Father  has  given  to  us  unless  we  bear  out  in 
our  lives  the  reputation  for  good  that  we  enjoy  and  vitalize  in  our 
living  the  eternal  principles  of  truth  revealed  to  us  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

OUR  MESSAGE  TO  THE  WORLD. 

Therefore  we  say  to  all  the  world,  if  you  want  health,  live  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  if  you  want  wealth,  if  you 
want  that  which  is  necessary  to  sustain  life  and  to  secure  the  necessary 
comforts  of  life,  obey  the  laws  of  the  gospel,  pay  tithing  to  the  Lord. 
If  you  would  solve  the  great  problems  of  society,  apply  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  If  you  would  understand  government,  if  you  would 
create  and  train  citizens  who  will  make  a  great  government,  live  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  a  good  citizen  in  the  Church  of  God  is  a 
good  citizen  in  any  good  government  on  the  face  of  the  earth.    If  you 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


want  happiness,  if  you  want  that  great  joy  that  comes  into  the  hearts 
of  those  who  know  the  truth,  if  you  want  contentment,  peace  of  mind, 
opportunity  for  service,  live  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord  and 
Master. 

God  help  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  appreciate  what  this  great 
gift,  the  gospel,  means  to  us.  God  help  us  to  be  worthy  of  the  honor- 
able names  we  bear:  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  I  hum- 
bly ask,  in  his  name.  Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

The  meetings  of  our  conference  have  been  notable,  as  have  been 
the  meetings  of  earlier  conferences.  It  is  indeed  an  impressive  fact 
that  our  people  come  up  from  the  stakes  and  in  from  the  missions  at 
conference  time  in  such  large  numbers,  and  assemble  to  receive  in- 
struction, admonition,  advice,  encouragement  and  such  good  gifts  as 
the  Lord  holds  in  store  for  them.  I  have  sometimes  heard  men  try 
to  describe  great  gatherings  to  which  people  have  come  for  some  defin- 
ite purpose,  and  when  all  other  comparisons  seemed  to  be  inadequate, 
they  have  said  the  movement  was  almost  like  the  "Mormons"  com- 
ing to  conference.  No  matter  what  the  weather  may  be,  or  the  sea- 
sonal conditions,  a  very  great  number  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
willing  to  lay  aside  their  material  affairs  to  gather  here  in  the  ap- 
pointed place,  at  the  time  selected  and  announced,  for  the  conferences 
of  the  Church.  In  a  measure  this  is  comparable  to  the  assembling  of  the 
tribes  in  ancient  Israel  at  the  time  of  the  Passover,  though  we  come  not 
as  distinct  tribes  but  as  members  of  one  body,  all  upon  one  footing, 
everyone  representing  a  unit  in  the  great  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

THE  CHURCH   A   UNIQUE  ORGANIZATION.     NOT  SECTARIAN. 

In  this  respect  we  are  unique,  and  in  many  other  respects  is  the 
Church  unique.  How  could  it  be  otherwise  when  the  conditions  of  its 
organization  and  the  occurrences  immediately  preceding  are  consid- 
ered ?  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  stands,  in  a  particular  sense,  alone. 
Not  even  a  hostile  commentator  or  an  unfavorable  critic  has  ever  yet 
ventured  to  put  forth  the  assertion  that  this  Church  has  any  relation- 
ship of  origin  and  development  with  any  other  church  or  denomina- 
tion on  the  face  of  the  earth.  We  are  not  regarded  as  an  offshoot  of 
any  mother  church.  Churches  generally  treat  us  for  what  we  are,  a 
body  of  religionists  standing  alone  in  the  world. 

That  does  not  mean  that  we  shall  refuse  to  lend  our  ready  co- 
operation with  other  religionists  or  religious  bodies  in  any  movement 
for  the  general  good,  in  any  civic  or  patriotic  duty;  but  it  does  mean 
that,  so  far  as  the  essential  characteristics  of  our  organization  are  con- 
cerned, this  Church  has  no  counterpart  amongst  the  sects  and  de- 
nominations of  the  day. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 


101 


TOLERATION  DOE'S  NOT  IMPLY  ACCEPTANCE. 

Toleration  is  a  specified  characteristic  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  we  have  crystallized  that  principle  into  a  terse  expression 
embodied  in  our  Articles  of  Faith.  We  affirm  that  we  do  not  merely 
beg  and  ask,  but  that  "We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping  Almighty 
God  according  to  the  dictates  of  our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men 
the  same  privilege ;  let  them  worship,  how,  where,  or  what  they  may." 
But  while  our  toleration  is  thus  practically  boundless,  for  we  respect 
as  sacred  the  religious  convictions  of  men,  we  do  not  carry  it  to  the 
absurd  extreme  of  saying  that  therefore  we  are  under  obligation  to 
adopt  what  others  believe.  I  am  willing  to  tolerate  my  brother's  be- 
lief, because  it  is  his,  not  necessarily  because  I  think  it  is  true.  He  is 
welcome  to  it ;  I  may  have  no  use  for  it ;  but  it  is  his  and  he  may  have 
it.  I  shall  not  ridicule  it,  and  I  shall  not  denounce  him,  provided,  of 
course,  his  belief  is  not  opposed  to  law  and  order ;  but  I  should  be  very 
glad  to  sit  down  with  him  and  in  a  kind,  friendly,  neighborly  and 
brotherly  way,  try  to  show  him  something  better,  if  I  know  that  my 
religion  is  true  and  his  is  not. 

CENTENNIAL  OF  A  GLORIOUS  MANIFESTATION. 

Practically  a  full  century  ago,  in  the  year  of  which  this  is  the  glor- 
ious centennial,  there  occurred  an  epoch-making  event  in  the  history 
of  the  world.  Reference  was  made  to  this  yesterday.  I  venture  to 
call  your  attention  to  the  actual  record.  You  know  the  story,  I  know ; 
but  it  is  well  sometimes  that  we  be  reminded  of  what  we  know.  You 
know  the  testimony  of  the  young  man  Joseph  Smith,  to  the  effect  that 
he  was  greatly  wrought  up  in  his  mind  as  to  which  among  the  many 
(contending  sects  of  the  day  was  in  reality  the  Church  of  Christ,  for 
he  had  common  sense  enough  to  know  that  they  could  not  all  be  right, 
for  they  were  opposed  to  one  another.  There  was  not  only  opposition 
but  hatred  among  them,  and  one  sect  sometimes  directed  the  batteries 
of  its  assault  toward  another  particular  sect,  and  in  the  year  1820  there 
was  much  confusion  and  much  dissension.  The  young  man  afterward 
wrote: 

"During  this  time  of  great  excitement,  my  mind  was  called  up 
to  serious  reflection  and  great  uneasiness  ;  but  though  my  feelings  were 
deep  and  often  poignant,  still  I  kept  myself  aloof  from  all  these  parties, 
though  I  attended  their  several  meetings  as  often  as  occasion  would 
permit."  In  his  study  and  thought  he  turned  to  the  Scriptures  and 
was  particularly  impressed  by  this  wonderful  precept  and  the  mar- 
velous promise  associated  therewith :  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let 
him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not ; 
and  it  shall  be  given  him."  (James  1:5.)  Joseph  felt  that  he  lacked 
wisdom.  He  was  in  search  of  it,  and  he  asked  of  God.  He  went  into 
the  woods  in  the  early  spring  of  1820  to  pray;  he  knelt  down  and 
poured  out  the  desires  of  his  heart  to  God. 

THE  ETERNAL  FATHER  AND  JESUS  CHRIST  APPEARED  IN  BODILY  PRES- 
ENCE. 

"I  had  scarcely  done  so,"  he  afterward  wrote,  "when  immediately 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  was  seized  upon  by  some  power  which  entirely  overcame  me,  and  had 
such  an  astonishing1  influence  over  me  as  to  bind  my  tongue  so  that 
I  could  not  speak.  Thick  darkness  gathered  around  me,  and  it  seemed 
to  me  for  a  time  as  if  I  were  doomed  to  sudden  destruction."  But 
though  the  powers  of  evil  were  thus  trying  to  stop  his  utterance  and 
to  crush  his  effort,  he  called  all  the  more  fervently  upon  his  God,  and 
he  avowed  that  there  appeared  a  pillar  of  light,  as  he  says,  "Exactly 
over  my  head,  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun,  which  descended  grad- 
ually until  it  fell  upon  me.  It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found  my- 
self delivered  from  the  enemy  which  held  me  bound.  When  the  light 
rested  upon  me  I  saw  two  Personages,  whose  brightness  and  glory 
defy  all  description,  standing  above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake 
unto  me,  calling  me  by  name,  and  said,  pointing  to  the  other — This  is 
my  beloved  Son,  hear  Him!" 

THE  CHURCHES  OF  THE  DAY  HAD  GONE  ASTRAY. 

The  Celestial  Personage  thus  indicated  answered  the  question  the 
youthful  seer  had  specified  in  his  prayer,  namely,  which  of  the  sects 
or  denominations  of  the  day  he  should  join,  and,  as  he  averred,  "I 
was  answered  that  I  must  join  none  of  them,  for  they  were  all  wrong; 
and  the  Personage  who  addressed  me  said  that  all  their  creeds  were 
an  abomination  in  his  sight ;  that  those  professors  were  all  corrupt ; 
that  'they  draw  near  to  me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are  far 
from  me;  they  teach  for  doctrines  the  commandment^  of  men,  having 
a  form  of  godliness,  but  they  deny  the  power  thereof.'  " 

We  have  been  severely  criticized  because  of  the  declaration  that 
the  sects  and  denominations  of  that  day  were  wrong.  Remember, 
please,  the  declaration  was  not  of  Joseph.  He  had  not  before  known 
that  to  be  the  case.  Those  words  were  the  words  of  One  greater 
than  he,  greater  than  you,  greater  than  all  of  us  here  assembled,  the 
words  of  the  Son  of  God.  Wherein  were  those  churches  wrong?  Had 
they  not  much  within  them  that  was  good?  I  venture  to  affirm  that 
they  had.  I  doubt  not  that  there  were  amongst  them  men  of  God, 
who  were  trying  to  live  according  to  the  best  light  they  had  received ; 
but  as  churches  they  were  wrong  because  they  were  making  false  pre- 
tentions. They  claimed  to  possess  the  power  of  the  holy  Priesthood, 
and  they  essayed  to  administer  the  ordinances  thereof,  all  in  compli- 
ance with  what  they  understood  to  be  the  rule  of  the  form  of  god- 
liness. We  can  create  many  a  variation  of  the  form  of  godliness.  We 
can  make  it  intricate  and  enticing;  but  no  men  or  body  of  men  can 
gather  together  or  work  independently  and  originate  the  holy  Priest- 
hood upon  the  earth.  To  do  so  would  be  a  greater  miracle  than  for 
one  to  originate  life  in  dead  matter.  There  is  a  chasm  between  in- 
animate and  organic  matter,  between  the  living  and  the  dead,  and  man 
cannot  bridge  it  He  may  take  living  things,  plants  and  animals,  and 
■rear  and  nurture  and  tend  them,  and  by  selective  breeding  he  may 
produce  new  varieties,  but  the  man  never  lived  who,  with  all  his 
science,  and  all  his  facilities  of  laboratory  and  other  research,  brought 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  T ALU  AGE. 


103 


into  existence  one  microscopical  living  cell,  except,  indirectly,  through 
the  operation  of  the  laws  of  life,  which  are  not  of  man. 

This  Church,  therefore,  from  its  beginning,  has  been  unique,  for 
the  organization  of  the  Church  was  forecasted  in  this  declaration  that 
at  the  time  of  Joseph  Smith's  first  vision  there  was  no  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  upon  the  earth ;  and  I  do  not  see  why  people  should  take 
issue  with  us  for  making  that  statement.  A  man  of  one  political  party 
professes  to  believe  that  the  other  political  party  is  wrong;  and  he  has 
a  right  to  believe  it,  and  if  he  can  demonstrate  that  fact  to  his  own 
satisfaction  he  has  the  right  to  promulgate  his  belief ;  but  he  should 
do  it  with  regard  to  the  rights  of  the  other  party  and  the  members 
thereof.  We  are  not  assailing  churches ;  we  are  not  attacking  sects ; 
we  have  no  war  with  any  of  the  numerous  denominations  on  the  face 
of  the  earth.  We  are  sending  out  our  missionaries,  we  are  using  the 
columns  of  the  press,  not  to  attack  Catholicism  or  Protestantism,  or 
any  form  of  religion,  but  to  preach  in  a  positive  and  constructive  way 
the  principles  of  . the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  that  gospel  has  been 
restored  to  the  earth  in  this  dispensation,  in  strict  accordance  with  the 
predictions  of  ancient  prophets. 

THE  CURRENT  MOVEMENT  FOR  CHURCH  UNION. 

We  are  aware  that  at  the  present  time  there  is  in  progress  a  great 
world  movement  having  for  its  object  the  federation  of  denominations 
and  sects  professing  belief  in  Christianity.  It  is  known  as  the  Inter- 
Church  World  Movement.  Already  we  find  in  the  daily  press  many 
contributions  explaining  the  purpose  of  the  movement.  Already  the 
advertising  pages  of  the  great  magazines  are  being  used.  Already 
plans  have  been  made  for  a  great  assembly  to  take  place,  most  prob- 
ably though  not  certainly,  in  London,  appointed  for  the  coming  sum- 
mer; and  sects  and  denominations  are  called  together  for  the  purpose 
of  forming  some  kind  of  a  merger  or  combination. 

It  is  a  very  important  question  to  ask :  Just  where  does  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  stand  in  relation  to  that  matter? 
I  answer,  it  stands  aloof  and  alone. 

Intimations  have  been  given  out  that  this  Church  is  trying  to  get 
in;  that  it  is  trying  to  curry  favor  with  the  sects  in  order  that  it  may 
have  a  place  in  the  great  combination  that  has  been  planned.  Why,  to 
think  such  a  thing  would  be  sacrilege  on  our  part.  We  have  not  de- 
rived our  authority  to  administer  in  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  from 
any  of  them,  nor  from  any  common  source.  We  are  no  offshoot  of 
the  Church  of  Rome.  We  are  no  outgrowth  of  any  of  the  Protestant 
denominations.  We  constitute  a  Church  that  has  been  organized  and 
named  by  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  So  far  as  these  combinations  go  we 
wish  the  participants  well.  They  have  been  foolishly,  as  they  profess 
and  declare,  spending  vast  sums  of  money  for  the  erection  of  meet- 
inghouses, chapels,  churches  that  they  could  not  use ;  and  they  say  they 
can  save  money  by  what  they  are  proposing  to  do,  though  they  are  try- 
ing to  raise  a  great  sum  by  a  world-wide  drive  in  order  to  bring  about 
the  saving. 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


THIS  CHURCH  CANNOT  BE  A  PARTY  TO  IT. 

If  they  can  do  anything  better  for  the  common  good  by  joining 
together,  let  them  join.  Those  churches  were  formed  by  men,  and 
men  have  the  right  to  do  with  them  as  they  please ;  we  shall  not  in- 
terfere with  them.  But  this  Church  was  not  formed  on  man's  initiative, 
it  was  not  called  into  being  because  of  some  brilliant  leader  who  stepped 
forward  with  a  new  plan;  and  therefore  we  cannot,  we  have  not  the 
power  nor  the  authority,  to  make  any  kind  of  affiliation  with  any 
other  church ;  and  let  me  -say  with  equal  earnestness,  no  other  de- 
nomination, no  church,  no  sect  can  ever  affiliate  as  such  with  this,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  There  have  been  over- 
tures made  by  some  religious  bodies  to  find  out  the  terms  under  which 
they  probably  could  come  in  with  us ;  and  the  answer  has  been :  Come 
in  as  every  member  of  this  Church  has  come  in — through  the  door; 
and  note  that  the  door  is  just  wide  enough  to  admit  you,  one  at  a 
time,  the  door  of  baptism,  that  ye  may  receive  the  Holy  Ghost  by 
the  laying  on  of  hands.  , 

Students  of  human  affairs,  theologians  and  other  thinking  men 
have  expressed  their  amazement  at  the  vitality  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  they  say  we  have  some  secret  for  our 
unprecedented  development.  Now  let  me  tell  you  what  that  secret  is. 
I  take  you  all  into  confidence.  But  instead  of  saying  to  you,  don't 
tell  anybody  else,  I  invite  you  to  tell  the  world.  This  is  the  secret. 
Every  member  of  this  Church  stands  upon  his  own  feet,  upon  his  own 
testimony,  upon  his  own  conviction  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  He  can  not  receive  that  testimony  from  any  other  man.  No 
president,  no  apostle,  no  patriarch,  no  bishop,  no  officer  in  the  Church 
has  any  testimonies  to  sell,  nor  any  assurances  of  the  divinity  of  this 
work  to  give  as  a  personal  possession  to  anybody  else.  There  are 
some  riches  you  cannot  share.  Now,  in  a  great  building  such  as  this 
Tabernacle,  one  part  depends  upon  the  other  parts.  Knock  out  one  of 
those  columns  and  that  part  of  the  gallery  would  be  endangered.  Re- 
move several  of  them  and  a  section  of  the  balcony  would  collapse. 
But  suppose  that  every  part  of  the  building  rested  upon  its  own  founda- 
tion. Then  the  destruction  of  one  part  would  not  affect  the  others. 
Now,  that  is  the  secret.  Latter-day  Saints  are  individually  answerable 
to  their  God,  for  individually  they  receive  that  great  gift  of  God,  the 
testimony  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  pray  that  we  may  be  individually  true  to  it.  Oh,  my  brethren, 
my  sisters,  this  is  the  day  of  which  the  prophets  have  spoken,  this  is 
the  day  of  trial  and  of  test  notwithstanding  the  many  favorable  con- 
ditions in  which  we  rejoice.  Beware  of  those  who  would  try  to  lead 
you  away  from  the  foundation  of  your  own  testimony.  Beware  of 
those  who  would  set  up  factions  for  themselves,  for  all  such  will  follow 
the  course  of  those  that  have  gone  before  and  come  to  grief.  Stand 
ye  in  holy  places  and  be  not  moved.  I  ask  it  for  us  all,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH.  105 


A  sacred  baritone  solo,  "The  Valley  of  Shadows,"  was  sung  by 
John  Robinson. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

One  theme  has  stood  out  very  prominently,  and  properly  so,  in 
the  remarks  of  most  of  the  speakers  who  have  addressed  this  confer- 
ence. That  has  been  the  subject  of  the  great  vision  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  The  previous  speaker  stated  that  this  is  the  day  of 
which  the  ancient  prophets  spoke.   With  this  I  fully  agree. 

A  SCRIPTURE  PASSAGE  APPLIED  TO  JOSEPH  THE  PROPHET. 

There  is  a  passage  of  scripture  recorded  in  the  seventh  chapter  of 
St.  Luke  that  I  shall  apply  to  my  remarks  this  morning.  The  occasion 
referred  to  in  this  scripture  was  one  following  the  manifestation  of 
great  power  on  the  part  of  the  Son  of  God  when  he  raised  the 
widow's  son  from  the  dead.   St.  Luke  wrote  of  the  event  as  follows : 

And  there  came  a  fear  on  all:  and  they  glorified  God.  saying,  That  a 
great  prophet  is  risen  up  among  us;  and,  That  God  hath  visited  his  people. 

And  this  rumor  of  him  went  forth  through  all  Judea,  and  throughout  all 
the  region  round  about. 

And  the  disciples  of  John  shewed  him  of  all  these  things. 

And  John  calling  unto  him  two  of  his  disciples  sent  them  to  Jesus,  say- 
ing, Art  thou  he  that  should  come?  or  look  we  for  another? 

With  all  sincerity  and  in  humility  I  shall  apply  this  scripture  to  the 
Prophet  of  the  nineteenth  century  and  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times.  There  is  nothing  sacrilegious  or  improper  in  this,  for  I  fully 
believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet,  and  is  a  prophet  of  God,  who 
received  divine  approval  from  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  And  his  fame 
has  gone  forth  throughout  all  the  land,  and  many  people  have  said,  "A 
prophet  is  risen  up  among  us,  and  God  hath  visited  his  people." 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  THE  MESSENGER  TO  PREPARE  THE  WAY  FOR  THE  SECOND 

COMING  OF  CHRIST. 

But  the  point  I  wish  to  make  is  here :  We  are  living,  as  all  admit, 
in  the  latter  days,  when  many  people  are  looking  for  the  coming  of  the 
Savior  of  the  world  in  the  clouds  of  glory.  Of  necessity,  before  that 
day  shall  come,  there  must  be  one  sent  into  the  world  clothed  with 
authority  from  on  high,  and  commissioned  to  establish  anew  in  the 
earth  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel  as  it  was  in  former  days. 
For  Christ  cannot  come  to  establish  the  reign  of  peace  until  some  such 
messenger  appear  with  authority  to  prepare  the  way  before  him.  There- 
fore, paraphrasing  the  nineteenth  verse,  I  will  apply  it  as  follows :  "Art 
thou,  Joseph  Smith,  he  who  should  come?  or  look  we  for  another?" 

We  read  in  the  third  chapter  of  the  prophecy  of  Malachi,  where  it  is 
written  the  Lord  will  send  his  messenger,  and  he  shall  prepare  the  way 
before  him,  "and  the  Lord,  whom  ye  seek,  shall  suddenly  come  to  his 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


temple,  even  the  messenger  of  the  covenant,  whom  ye  delight  in."  This 
does  not  refer  to  the  former  coming  when  the  Lord  was  born  into  this 
world,  for  we  read  further,  "But  who  may  abide  the  day  of  his  com- 
ing? and  who  shall  stand  when  he  appeareth?  for  he  is  like  a  refiner's 
fire,  and  like  a  fuller's  soap."  Every  indication  is  that  this  refers  to  his 
second  coming. 

The  Lord,  in  the  former  dispensation,  sent  a  messenger  to  prepare 
the  way  before  him, and  in  this  dispensation  it  was  just  as  necessary  that 
a  messenger  be  sent  to  prepare  the  way  for  the  coming  of  the  Lord 
and  the  establishment  of  the  reign  of  peace.  If  Joseph  Smith  was  not 
that  man,  then  we  must  look  for  another.  Now,  I  say  to  you,  the  issue 
is  clear,  the  line  is  sharply  drawn  and  there  is  no  occasion  for  misun- 
derstanding. Either  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  all  that 
he  claimed  to  be,  or  he  was  the  greatest  impostor  this  world  has  ever 
seen.  There  is  no  middle  ground.  You  cannot  say  he  was  deceived, 
that  he  was  mistaken,  that  he  believed  that  he  was  called  of  God  and 
thought  that  he  had  seen  a  vision  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  but  he  was 
in  error.  He  was  all  he  claimed  to  be,  or  else  he  was  a  base  deceiver. 
To  be  consistent,  either  the  one  view  or  the  other  must  be  taken,  in 
regard  to  his  mission.  I  repeat,  there  is  no  middle  ground.  Certain 
writers  have  attempted  to  explain  the  mission  of  Joseph  Smith  in  that 
manner,  that  he  was  honestly  deceived,  but  the  issue  is  one  that  is  sharp 
and  clear.  There  is  no  possibility  of  his  being  deceived,  and  on  this 
issue  we  are  ready  to  make  our  stand.  I  maintain  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  all  that  he  claimed  to  be.  His  statements  are  too  positive  and  his 
claims  too  great  to  admit  of  deception  on  his  part.  No  impostor  could 
have  accomplished  so  great  and  wonderful  a  work.  Had  he  been  such, 
he  would  have  been  detected  and  exposed  and  the  plan  would  have 
failed  and  come  to  naught.  In  the  plan  of  salvation  as  it  was  made 
known  through  Joseph  Smith  to  the  world,  there  are  no  flaws.  Each 
part  fits  perfectly  and  makes  the  whole  complete.  Attacks  have  been 
made  from  the  beginning  to  the  present,  and  yet  every  one  has  failed. 
The  world  has  been  unable  to  place  a  finger  upon  anything  that  is 
inconsistent,  or  out  of  harmony  in  the  revelations  to  Joseph  Smith, 
with  that  which  has  been  revealed  before,  or  predicted  by  the  prophets 
and  the  Lord  himself. 

Oh,  it  is  an  astonishing  thing  to  me,  a  remarkable  thing,  that 
there  could  be  a  doubt  in  the  mind  of  any  man  who  has  made  a  study 
of  this  situation.  I  cannot  comprehend  how  he  could  fail  to  understand 
the  truth,,  and  be  impressed  with  the  fact  that  Joseph  Smith  was  sent 
into  the  world  to  restore  that  which  was  lost,  the  fulness  of  the  everlast- 
ing gospel.  Now,  I  say  again,  if  he  is  not  the  man  who  was  to  come, 
then  we  must  look  for  another,  for  that  man  must  come,  if  he  has  not 
come,  to  prepare  the  way  before  the  Lord.  The  time  is  growing  short, 
the  signs  of  the  times  point  to  that,  and  there  is  much  that  must  be 
done  or  the  words  of  the  prophets  shall  not  be  fulfilled.  But  he  was 
the  man,  and  as  the  Savior,  on  this  occasion  to  which  I  have  made  ref- 
erence, sent  those  messengers  back  to  John  filled  with  information  be- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH. 


107 


cause  of  the  mighty  works  which  he  performed,  so  the  message  deliv- 
red  by  Joseph  Smith  and  his  works  testify  of  him  to  all  the  world  that 
he  was  called  of  God.   There  is  no  gainsaying  it. 

Is  it  not  rather  a  remarkable  thing  that  in  every  revelation  given 
to  Joseph  Smith  he  has  been  found  absolutely  in  harmony  with  the 
scriptures?  The  Lord,  as  I  have  stated,  declared  through  one  of  his 
prophets  that  before  his  second  coming  a  messenger  should  be  sent  to 
prepare  the  way  and  make  it  straight.  You  may  apply  this  to  John  if 
you  will,  and  it  is  true.  John,  the  messenger  who  came  to  prepare  the 
way  before  the  Lord  in  the  former  dispensation,  also  came  in  this  dis- 
pensation as  a  messenger  to  Joseph  Smith,  so  it  applies,  if  you  wish  to 
apply  it  so,  to  John  who  came  as  a  messenger  to  prepare  the  way  before 
the  Lord.  But  I  go  further  and  maintain  that  Joseph  Smith  was  the 
messenger  whom  the  Lord  sent  to  prepare  the  way  before  him.  He 
came  and  under  direction  of  holy  messengers  laid  the  foundation  for 
the  kingdom  of  God  and  of  this  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  that 
the  world  might  be  prepared  for  the  coming  of  the  Lord. 

JOSEPH  SMITH     FULFILS  THE  PREDICTION  OF  THE  PROPHETS  AND  THE 
REQUIREMENTS  OF  THE  FORERUNNER  OF  CHRIST. 

Speaking  of  the  marvelous  work.  Is  it  not  rather  remarkable  also 
that  Joseph  Smith  fulfils  the  prediction  made  by  Isaiah,  as  recorded  in 
the  twenty-ninth  chapter  of  his  book,  as  follows : 

For  the  Lord  hath  poured  out  upon  you  the  spirit  of  deep  sleep,  and 
hath  closed  your  eyes:  the  prophets  and  your  rulers,  the  seers  hath  he  cov- 
ered. 

And  the  vision  of  all  is  become  unto  you  as  the  words  of  a  book  that 
is  sealed,  which  men  deliver  to  one  that  is  learned,  saying,  Read  this,  I  pray 
thee:  and  he  saith,  I  cannot;  for  it  is  sealed; 

And  the  book  is  delivered  to  him  that  is  not  learned,  saying,  Read  this, 
I  pray  thee:  and  he  saith,  I  am  not  learned. 

Wherefore,  the  Lord  said,  Forasmuch  as  this  people  draw  near  me 
with  their  mouth,  and  with  their  lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  removed  their 
heart  far  from  me,  and  their  fear  towards  me  is  taught  by  the  precept  of 
men: 

These  are  almost  the  exact  words  spoken  by  the  Savior  to  Joseph 
Smith : 

Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  among  this 
people,  even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder:  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise 
men  shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid. 

This  portrays  the  condition  of  the  world  just  one  hundred  years 
ago  when  this  prophecy  was  fulfilled.  Now,  to  continue;  if  Joseph 
Smith  did  not  introduce  that  marvelous  work  and  wonder,  some  one  else 
must  come  to  do  it  before  the  Lord  will  come.  He  fulfilled  the  first 
part  of  this  quotation  which  refers  to  words  taken  from  the  record  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  as  all  who  have  read  Church  history  know.  If 
this  marvelous  work  was  not  established  by  the  Lord,  through  the  in- 
strumentality of  Joseph  Smith,  then  some  one  must  come  to  do  it.  1  his 
prophecy,  as  you  discover  by  reading  the  whole  chapter,  was  to  be 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


fulfilled  in  the  latter  times.  The  world  is  not  looking  for  any  one  to 
come  to  establish  that  work.  ■  No  one  claims  to  have  done  it,  other  than 
Joseph  Smith.   He  fills  the  bill. 

Again,  the  gospel  was  to  be  restored  as  it  was  in  primitive  times, 
before  the  coming  of  the  Lord.  All  will  admit,  whether  they  believe  in 
the  mission  of  Joseph  Smith  or  not,  that  at  least  there  has  been  a  depar- 
ture from  the  teachings  and  the  organization  which  existed  in  the  days 
of  the  Savior's  ministry  and  the  ministry  of  the  Apostles.  That  must 
be,  and  is,  conceded.  You  cannot  find  that  organization  anywhere  in 
the  world,  and  you  cannot  find  those  doctrines  anywhere  except  as  they 
have  been  given  through  the  agency  of  Joseph  Smith.  This  gospel  was 
to  be  declared,  so  John  the  Revelator  has  written  in  the  fourteenth 
chapter  and  sixth  verse  of  Revelation,  by  an  angel  who  was  to  fly 
through  the  midst  of  heaven  having  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach 
unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and  kindred, 
and  tongue,  and  people,  calling  on  them  to  repent  for  the  hour  of  judg- 
ment is  come.  Nobody  else,  except  Joseph  Smith,  ever  claimed  that  an 
angel  did  fly  and  did  appear  to  him  with  this  message,  and  he  was  com- 
missioned to  send  it  forth  to  all  the  world. 

Joseph  Smith  declared  that  he,  with  Oliver  Cowdery,  his  com- 
panion, received  the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  Israel.  No  one  else  ever 
claimed  to  have  had  them  revealed  to  him.  If  Joseph  Smith  did  not 
receive  them,  then  some  one  must  be  empowered  with  this  authority 
before  the  coming  of  the  Lord.  For  Israel  is  to  be  gathered,  and 
it  must  be  by  authority  given  to  some  one.  Israel  is  being  gathered, 
which  indicates  that  Joseph  Smith  must  have  held  those  keys.  Malachi 
has  said  that  the  Lord  would  send  Elijah  before  the  coming  of  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  he 
(Elijah)  came  to  him  and  Oliver  Cowdery  with  the  keys  of  that  power. 
If  he  did  not,  and  they  have  told  a  falsehood,  then  Elijah  must  come 
before  the  great  day  of  the  Lord,  or  the  earth  will  be  smitten  with  a 
curse.  No  one,  save  Joseph  Smith,  has  claimed  that  these  keys  have 
been  revealed.  No  one  else  knew  what  was  meant  by  this  passage  of 
scripture.  The  hearts  of  the  children  are  turned  to  their  fathers,  as 
Malachi  predicted  would  be  the  case,  after  the  coming  of  Elijah.  This 
indicates  that  Elijah  has  come  and  it  must  have  been  to  Joseph  Smith. 

So  I  might  go  on  with  many  other  predictions  in  the  scriptures. 
You  may  search  from  the  beginning  to  the  end,  all  the  revelations 
given  to  Joseph  Smith  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants, and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  which  contain  a  message  to  the 
world  from  the  Lord,  and  you  will  find  that  in  every  instance  they  are 
in  harmony  and  agree  with  the  revelations  of  other  times.  You  will 
discover  that  in  all  things  Joseph  Smith  fills  the  bill,  he  fits  into  the 
niche  which  was  to  be  occupied  by  the  messenger  who  was  to  come  to 
prepare  the  way  before  the  coming  of  Jesus  Christ.  No  one  else  has 
claimed  to  be  that  man.  Why,  then,  should  we  not  heed  his  mission  ? 
I  say  to  you,  I  believe  with  all  my  heart,  I  know  it  to  be  true.  Two 
themes  stand  out  uppermost  always  in  my  mind.   That  Jesus  Christ  is 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH. 


109 


the  Son  of  God,  who  was  crucified  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  called  and  appointed  to  usher  in  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  fulness  of  times.  That  is  my  message  to  the  world,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  earnestly  desire  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers  during  the  few  moments  that  I  stand  before  you 
this  morning,  for  I  feel  that  I  need  it. 

ONE  HUNDRED  YEARS  OF  THE  LAST  GOSPEL  DISPENSATION. 

All  during  the  proceedings  of  this  conference,  as  I  have 
listened  to  the  remarks  of  my  brethren  who  have  preceded  me, 
I  have  been  thinking  of  the  one  outstanding  incident  of  interest 
to  the  Church,  which  has  been  so  often  referred  to:  that  one  hun- 
dred years,  approximately,  have  elapsed  since  the  ushering  in  of  this 
the  greatest,  the  most  important  gospel  dispensation  that  the  world 
has  ever  known.  Prophets  of  old  looked  forward  to  it,  prayed  that 
they  might  see  it,  and  participate  in  its  activities.  The  Apostle  Paul 
said:  "Blessed  be  the  God  and  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who 
hath  blessed  us  with  all  spiritual  blessings,  *  *  *  having  made 
known  to  us  the  mystery  of  his  will  *  *  *  that  in  the  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times  he  might  gather  together  in  one  all  things  in 
Christ,  both  which  are  in  heaven,  and  which  are  on  earth ;  even  in  him." 

There  have  been  other  dispensations  in  which  the  gospel  has  been 
brought  to  earth,  all  of  which  have  been  of  great  importance  to  the 
people:  that  of  the  meridian  of  time,  when  the  Redeemer  ministered 
in  person,  being,  without  doubt,  of  greater  fundamental  worth  than  any 
which  came  before  or  will  follow  after,  for  the  redemption  of  the 
human  family  depended  upon  the  atonement  which  he  made,  by  which 
we  are  redeemed  from  the  fall  and  made  heirs  with  hirm  to  the  king- 
dom of  his  Father.  But  the  great  work  which  he  commenced,  the 
glorious  triumph  of  right  over  wrong,  of  light  over  darkness,  the  ful- 
filment of  the  words  of  all  of  the  ancient  prophets,  the  consummation 
of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord,  and  the  redemption  of  his  covenant  peo- 
ple, is  left  for  the  dispensation  in  which  we  live.  Proper  conclusions 
can  only  be  drawn  by  comparison.  If  there  were  no  tall  people,  there 
would  be  none  short.  If  there  were  no  short  people,  there  would  be 
none  tall.  If  there  were  no  clouds,  as  there  are  today,  we  would  not 
appreciate  the  sunshine ;  and  if  there  were  no  sunshine  we1  would  be 
happy,  I  suppose,  with  the  clouds. 

THE  DISPENSATION  OF  THE  MERIDIAN  OF  TIME,  AND  THE  FULNESS  OF 

TIME  COMPARED. 

So,  as  we  contemplate  the  events  of  the  past  century,  we  naturally 
compare  our  experiences,  our  accomplishments,  our  joys  and  sorrows, 
our  successes  and  failures,  with  those  that  others  had  before  us.  While 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Christ's  ministry  did  not  begin  until  a  considerable  time  had  elapsed 
after  his  birth,  the  ushering  in  of  the  dispensation  of  the  meridian  of 
time  may  be  said  to  date  from  that  eventful  night  when  shepherds  who 
watched  their  flocks  upon  the  hills  of  Judea  were  overshadowed  by 
the  glory  of  the  Lord,  and  a  multitude  of  heavenly  hosts  sang,  "Glory 
to  God  in  the  highest,  on  earth  peace,  good  will  to  men,"  as  the  Christ 
was  born  into  the  world. 

So,  in  the  day  in  which  we  live,  while  the  Church  had  not  yet 
been  organized',  the  ushering  in  of  this  gospel  dispensation  dates  from 
the  occasion  to  which  Brother  Talmage  and  others  have  made  refer- 
ence, when  the  Father  and  Son  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  in  the  early 
spring  of  1820.  While  there  was  some  development  in  the  primitive 
church  subsequent  to  the  crucifixion  of  the  Redeemer,  before  a  cen- 
tury had  passed,  Jerusalem  was  besieged  and  taken  by  the  Roman 
armies,  under  V espasian  and  his  son  Titus ;  the  great  temple,  in  the 
construction  of  which  Herod  had  employed  eighteen  thousand  men, 
for  a  period  of  nine  years,  was  destroyed,  the  Jews  were  made  captive 
and  scattered  to  the  four  winds  of  heaven.  To  what  extent  the  members 
of  the  Church  who  were  at  Jerusalem  at  this  time  suffered,  we  do  not 
know,  but  we  are  told  that,  remembering  the  admonition  of  the  Re- 
deemer, and  taking  advantage  of  the  temporary  withdrawal  of  the 
Roman  armies,  they  had  been  led  by  Simeon,  bishop  of  Jerusalem, 
to  the  little  mountain  town  of  Pella,  where  for  a  time  they  were  safe. 

In  the  meantime  the  gospel  had  been  taken  by  the  apostles  to 
other  nations  than  the  Jews,  and  at  Corinth,  Ephesus,  Rome,  and 
other  places,  more  fruitful  fields  were  found  than  at  Jerusalem.  At 
Rome  many  converts  were  made  to  the  Christian  faith,  and  as  usual, 
with  the  spread  of  truth,  the  powers  of  darkness  arrayed  their  hosts 
against  the  Church,  and  its  members  suffered  persecution,  the  like 
of  which  the  present  dispensation  has  never  known. 

Under  Nero,  who  appears  to  have  been  a  very  fiend  incarnate, 
who  had  murdered  his  own  mother ;  who  burned  Rome  that  he  might 
witness  a  great  conflagration,  and  then  charged  the  Christians  with 
the  offense,  the  /emissaries  of  Lucifer,  the  enemy  of  all  that  is  good, 
and  particularly  the.  enemy  of  the  Redeemer,  were  given  full  license  to 
wreak  vengeance  upon  these  hapless  and  innocent  people,  whose  doc- 
trines of  peace,  good  will  and  righteousness,  endangered  the  dominion 
of  their  master  upon  the  earth.  The  Christians  were  accused  of  being 
rebellious,  of  holding  disorderly  meetings,  of  murdering  their  own 
children,  of  being  cannibals.  If  earthquake,  famine  or  pestilence 
came,  the  Christians  were  held  responsible.  It  was  popular  to  de- 
nounce and  bear  false  witness  against  any  suspected  of  affiliation 
with  the  Church,  and  when  brought  before  tribunals  for  trial,  if  they 
denied  that  they  were  Christians,  they  were  condemned  because  of 
their  obstinacy.  If  they  admitted  that  they  were  members  of  the 
Church,  they  were  sent  away  for  execution.  Their  condition,  I  am 
reminded,  was  not  unlike  that  of  one  suspected  of  witchcraft  among 
the  early  Puritans  of  New  England.  We  are  told  that  the  suspected  per- 
sons were  thrown  into  the  water.    If  they  did  not  sink  and  drown  it 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


Ill 


was  evidence  of  guilt,  and  they  were  burned.    If  they  did  sink  and 
were  drowned,  it  was  proof  that  they  were  guilty. 

To  satisfy  his  own  morbid  and  savage  nature,  and  please  the  rab- 
ble, Nero  ordered  Christians  thrown  into  the  great  amphitheatre  at 
the  Coliseum  of  Rome  to  be  torn  by  savage  dogs,  killed  and  devoured 
by  hungry  lions,  or  tossed  upon  the  horns  of  vicious  bulls.  He  caused 
Christians  to  be  smeared  with  pitch  and  tar  and  burned  as  torches  with 
which  to  illuminate  the  city  at  night.  Notwithstanding  these  atrocities, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  truth  rapidly  spread.  The  maid  whis- 
pered it  to  her  mistress.  The  toiler,  as  he  labored  in  the  field,  told 
the  wonderful  story  of  the  Christ  to  his  fellow  workmen,  and  bore 
witness  of  its  truth.  The  soldier  whispered  it  to  his  companion  in 
arms.  The  shepherds,  as  they  tended  their  flocks,  told  of  those  other 
shepherds  upon  the  'hills  of  Judea,  and  thus,  each  convert  doing  the 
work  of  a  missionary,  very  many  people  were  added  to  the  Church. 

.  There  was  at  Rome,  at  the  time  to  which  I  refer,  a  great  series 
of  underground  passages  or  chambers,  abandoned  quarries  from  which 
stone,  for  the  construction  of  the  city,  had  been  taken.  Had  you  been 
there  at  the  time  to  which  I  refer,  and  desired  Christian  worship,  you 
would  have  gone  at  a  late  hour  of  the  night,  after  the  city  had  ceased 
from,  its  revelry  and  debauchery,  possibly  with  some  friend,  more  likely 
alone,  cautiously  toward  these  abandoned  quarries.  Silently  you  would 
have  slipped  into  one  of  the  dark  passages,  and  felt  your  way  forward 
until  a  glimmer  of  light  appeared  in  the  distance.  A  man  would  salute 
you  as  "Brother,"  and  demand  the  sign  of  identification  by  which  he 
might  determine  your  right  to  be  there.  You  would  hear  the  sound 
of  distant  voices  engaged  in  singing  or  prayer,  and  would  soon  emerge 
into  one  of  those  large  underground  chambers  dimly  lighted,  and 
find  yourself  in  the  presence  of  a  large  congregation.  All  classes  of 
people  would  be  represented  there.  Beneath  the  outer  garment  you 
would  recognize  the  uniform  of  an  officer  of  the  royal  legions  of 
Rome,  the  rich  attire  of  the  patrician,  the  poorly  clad  plebeian.  Here 
they  met  as  brothers  and  sisters,  uniting  their  voices  in  hymns  of 
praise  and  prayer  to  God  for  strength  to  endure  the  persecution  of 
their  ignorant  and  blinded  enemies. 

Peter  or  Paul,  if  they  had  chanced  to  be  present,  would  doubt- 
less have  exhorted  the  assembly  devotedly  to  continue  in  the 
faith,  bearing  witness  to  them  that  death  in  the  service  of  the  Master 
assured  more  glorious  entrance  into  his  Kingdom.  Bread  would  have 
been  broken,  blessed,  and  partaken  of;  wine  blessed  and  drank,  and 
then  you  would  have  stolen  quietly  back  to  your  home,  not  knowing 
whether,  before  the  setting  of  tomorrow's  sun,  you,  too,  would  be 
thrown  to  the  lions.  Such  was  Christian  worship  during  the  latter  part 
of  the  first  century  after  Christ. 

THE  PRIMITIVE  CHURCH  AND  THE  CHURCH  OF  OUR  DAY  HAVE  HAD 
-  ANALOGOUS  EXPERIENCES. 

So,  by  comparison,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  experiences  of 
the  primitive  Church  and  the  Church  in  the  dispensation  in  which  we 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


live  are  analogous.  Jesus  was  baptized  by  John  the  Baptist  when 
thirty  years  of  age,  and  was  condemned  and  crucified  three  years 
later.  Joseph  Smith  was  baptized  under  direction  of  this  same  John, 
when  twenty-four  years  old,  and  was  martyred  fifteen  years  later,  in 
the  thirty-ninth  year  of  his  age.  Each  lived  but  a  short  time  after  his 
ministry  began.  Both  died  for  the  establishment  of  the  same  truths. 
Each  met  death  violently  at  the  hands  of  his  enemies,  but  under  en- 
tirely different  conditions.  Jesus  was  formally  arraigned,  tried  and 
condemned  by  a  legal  tribunal,  although  not  entirely  in  legal  form. 
Joseph  Smith  was  killed  by  a  mob,  without  pretense  of  legal  form- 
ality. 

Before  a  century  had  elapsed  after  the  birth  of  Christ,  all  of  the 
apostles  whom  he  chose,  with  the  single  exception  of  John,  were 
violently  put  to  death  by  their  enemies.  During  the  century  which  has 
just  passed,  the  Church  has  experienced'  no  such  conditions  as  these. 
In  both  dispensations  the  Church  was  unpopular,  and  its  members 
bitterly  persecuted ;  in  our  day,  thank  the  Lord,  not  with  the  same 
wicked,  relentless  spirit  which  was  manifest  toward  the  primitive 
Church. 

THE  CONDITION  OF  THE  PRIMITIVE  CHURCH  ON  THIS  CONTINENT. 

The  condition  of  the  Church  and  its  members  during  the  first 
one  hundred  years  after  its  establishment  upon  this  continent,  by  the 
Redeemer,  was  in  direct  contrast  to  that  of  the  Church  in  the  old 
world. 

Permit  me  briefly  to  read : 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  thirty  and  fourth  year  passed  away,  and 
also  the  thirty  and  fifth,  and  behold  the  disciples  of  Jesus  had  formed  a 
church  of  Christ  in  all  the  lands  round  about.  And  as  many  as  did  come 
unto  them,  and  did  truly  repent  of  their  sins,  were  baptized  in  the  name 
of  Jesus;  and  they  did  also  receive  the  Holy  Ghost. 

And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  thirty  and  sixth  year,  the  people  were  all 
converted  unto  the  Lord,  upon  all  the  face  of  the  land,  both  Nephites 
and  Lamanites,  and  there  were  no  contentions  and  disputations  among 
them,  and  every  man  did  deal  justly  one  with  another; 

And  they  had  all  things  common  among  them,  therefore  they  were 
not  rich  and  poor,  bond  and  free,  but  they  were  all  made  free,  and  par- 
takers of  the  heavenly  gift. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  there  was  no  contention  among  all  the 
people,  in  all  the  land,  but  there  were  mighty  miracles  wrought  among 
the  disciples  of  Jesus. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  seventy  and  first  year  passed  away,  and 
also  the  seventy  and  second  year;  yea,  and  in  fine,  till  the  seventy  and 
ninth  year  had  passed  away;  yea,  even  an  hundred  years  had  passed  away, 
and  the  disciples  of  Jesus,  whom  he  had  chosen,  had  all  gone  to  the 
paradise  of  God,  save  it  were  the  three  who  should  tarry;  and  there  were 
other  disciples  ordained  in  their  stead;  and  also  many  of  that  generation 
which  had  passed  away. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  there  was  no  contention  in  the  land,  because 
of  the  love  of  God  which  did  dwell  in  the  hearts  of  the  people. 

And  there  were  no  envyings,  nor  strifes,  nor  tumults,  nor  whoredoms, 
rior  lyings,  nor  murders,  nor  any  manner  of  lasciviousness;  and  surely 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


113 


there  could  not  be  a  happier  people  among  all  the  people  who  had  been 
created  by  the  hand  of  God. 

OUR  ACCOMPLISHMENTS  COMPARED  WITH  THOSE  OF  THE  NEPHITES. 

We  have  not  succeeded,  during  the  past  century,  in  accomplishing 
that  which  was  accomplished  by  the  Nephites,  notwithstanding  the 
great  results  which  have  come  from  our  efforts.  The  people  have 
not  yet  all  been  converted  to  the  Lord.  We  have  not  reached  that 
condition,  which  I  sincerely  believe  that  we  must  some  time  reach, 
when  we  are  united  in  temporal  things,  as  were  the  Nephites.  We 
have  not  reached  a  condition  where  there  is  no  envy,  nor  strife,  nor 
malice,  nor  whoredoms,  nor  any  manner  of  lasciviousness  among  the 
people.  We  have  not  reached  a  condition  that  we  are  in  one  the  chil- 
dren of  Christ,  as  the  Lord  would  have  us  to  be. 

It  is  true,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  conditions  under 
which  we  have  labored  are  entirely  different  to  those  which  existed 
among  the  Nephites.  The  Church  was  established  among  them  by  the 
Redeemer  in  person,  and  the  power  of  the  Father  was  manifest  in 
his  life  and  works,  as  he  ministered  among  them,  as  it  never  has  been, 
and  never  will  be  manifested  through  any  other  person.  In  the  dis- 
pensation in  which  we  live  the  Church  was  established  by  Christ 
through  his  chosen  agent,  and  it  is  true  that  the  signs  have  followed 
the  believer  in  a  remarkable  degree,  but  never  with  the  overwhelm- 
ing, convincing  proof  which  characterized  the  ministry  of  the  Son  of 
God.  They  were  a  people  of  one  race,  speaking  one  language,  with 
the  same  ideals,  the  same  traditions,  occupying  a  single  country. 

Our  efforts  have  been  among  the  people  of  many  different  na- 
tions and  countries,  people  with  different  languages,  with  different 
traditions,  with  different  ideals,  many  of  whom,  after  their  conver- 
sion, have  left  their  native  lands,  all  that  the  ordinary  man  holds  dear, 
and  have  come  to  a  strange  country,  to  identify  themselves  with  a 
strange  people,  to  be  surrounded  by  a  new  environment,  which  was 
entirely  contrary  to  that  which  they  had  been  accustomed  to. 

So  I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  as  we  review  the  events  of 
the  past  century,  we  have  very  much  to  be  grateful  for,  that  we  may 
justly  take  pride  in  what  we  have,  with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  ac- 
complished, because  all  that  has  been  done  has  been  through  the 
Lord  and  by  the  help  which  he  has  given  us. 

WE  MAY  LOOK,  WITH  CONFIDENCE  AND  FAITH,  TO  THE  FUTURE. 

It  appears  to  me  that  we  may  look  forward  with  absolute  confi- 
dence and  faith  in  the  future,  knowing,  because  of  the  experiences  of 
the  past,  that  the  Lord  is  on  our  side,  and  that  with  his  help  the  de- 
velopment of  the  Church  will  continue ;  that  in  this  dispensation  in 
which  we  live  he  will  consummate  his  purposes ;  his  covenant  people 
will  be  gathered;  Christ  will  come  to  reign  personally  upon  the 
earth ;  all  of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  will  be  consummated,  and  his 
kingdom  be  established  upon  the  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven.  May  the 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Lord  give  us  faith  and  strength  to  continue  the  effort's  of  the  past 
century,  until  these  glorious  purposes  shall  be  accomplished,  is  my 
earnest  prayer,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

After  a  number  of  announcements  had  been  given  out,  the  choir 
and  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 
Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

Elder  Soren  Rasmussen,  President  of  the  Jordan  Stake  of  Zion, 
pronounced  the  benediction. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

The  conference  was  called  to  order  at  2  o'clock  by  President  Heber 
J.  Grant,  who  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great  Je- 
hovah." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  H.  H.  Blood,  President  of  the 
North  Davis  stake  of  Zion. 

Choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,  our  only 
delight." 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

"Even  so,  I  have  sent  mine  everlasting  covenant  into  the  world  to  be  a 
light  unto  the  world  and  to  be  a  standard  for  my  people,  and  for  the  Gen- 
tiles to  seek  to  it,  and  to  be  a  messenger  before  my  face  to  prepare  the  way 
before  me." 

AN  ENSIGN  TO  THE  NATIONS. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  scarcely 
one  year  old  when  that  declaration  was  made  through  inspiration 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph.  He  himself  was  but  twenty-six  years  of  age. 
It  is  a  marvelous  declaration,  great  in  its  pretension,  comprehensive 
in  its  scope:  "Mine  everlasting  covenant"  (the  gospel),  is  sent  into 
the  world  "to  be  a  light  unto  the  world,  to  be  a  standard  for  my 
people  and  for  the  Gentiles  to  seek  to  it." 

On  Bedloe  Island,  at  the  entrance  of  New  York  harbor,  there 
stands  the  Statue  of  Liberty,  a  light  to  the  nations.  What  it  has  meant 
to  thousands  and  hundreds  of  thousands  of  the  down-trodden  of  Eu- 
rope has  been  most  graphically  expressed  by  Israel  Zangwill  in  that 
impressive  production,  The  Melting  Pot.  I  shall  read  a  few  words. 
David  the  emigrant,  the  little  Russian  Jew,  is  speaking: 

All  my  life  America  was  waiting,  beckoning,  shining,  the  place  where 
God  would  wipe  away  tears  from  off  all  faces.  To  think  that  the  same 
great  torch  of  Liberty  which  threw  its  light  across  all  the  seas  and  lands 
into  my  little  garret  in  Russia  is  shining  also  for  all  those  other  weeping 
millions  of  Europe,  shining  wherever  men  hunger  and  are  oppressed,  shin- 
ing over  the  starving  villages  of  Italy  and  Ireland,  over  the  swarming, 
starving  cities  of  Poland  and  Galicia,  over  the  ruined  farms  of  Romania, 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY. 


115 


over  the  Shambles  of  Russia.  When  I  look  at  our  Statue  of  Liberty,  I 
just  seem  to  hear  the  voice  of  America  crying:  "come  unto  me  all  ye 
who  are  weary  and  heavy-laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest,  rest." 

What  inat  Statue  of  Liberty  symbolizes  to  the  oppressed  and 
down-trodden  of  Europe,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  to  the  world. 
"Mormonism,"  so-called,  has  reared  an  ensign  to  the  nations  and,  with 
words  as  comprehensive  as  those  I  have  read  in  the  revelation,  invites 
the1  world  to  peace,  to  rest,  to  contentment. 

TO  WHOM  DOES  THE  ENSIGN  NOW  WAVE? 

High  on  the  mountain  top 

A  banner  is  unfurled; 
Ye  nations,  now  look  up; 

It  waves  to  all  the  world; 
In  Deseret's  sweet,  peaceful  land — 
On  Zion's  mount  behold  it  stand! 

Then  hail  to  Deseret! 

A  refuge  for  the  good, 
And  safety  for  the  great, 

If  they  but  understood 
That  God  with  plagues  will  shake  the  world 
Till  all  its  thrones  shall  down  be  hurled. 

And  to  whom  does  that  Ensign  now  wave?  To  what  sort  of 
world  does  the  beacon-light  of  the  everlasting  gospel  extend  its 
invitation?  A  mew  world,  or  rather  a  world  struggling  to  make  itself 
new.  The  terrible  war  that  has  just  passed  was  but  the  birth-pangs — 
and  now  the  world  is  ready  to  be  reborn.  "We  stand  at  a  creative 
moment  in  human  history,"  says  Sherwood  Eddy.  "Never  before  has 
the  whole  world  had  the  chance  to  make  all  things  new,  old  customs 
and  contentions,  old  rules  and  ruts,  old  traditions  and  enslavements 
have  been  broken  forever.  We  are  living  in  the  birth-pangs  of  a 
world  struggling  to  be  reborn,  and  the  issues  of  our  time  will  reach 
into  eternity." 

I  believe  that  mankind  today  is  earnestly  seeking  after  the  truth. 
I  believe,  notwithstanding  some  of  the  terrible  conditions  that  pre- 
vail across  the  sea,  and  even  here  in  our  own  United  States,  that  the 
efforts  men  are  putting  forth  are  but  the  results  of  yearning  souls 
desiring  to  know  the  truth.  The  truth  is  the  child  that  is  to  be  born, 
and  I  believe  that  most  of  these  men  are  honest  in  their  desires  to 
claim  it  as  their  own. 

MANY  HONEST  SEEKING  FOR  TRUTH  BUT  CANNOT  FIND  IT. 

Leading  thinkers  and  statesmen  are  calling  upon  mankind  every- 
where to  get  back  to  the  religious  ideals,  and  yet  when  men  come  back 
to  the  churches  they  find  that  when  they  ask  for  bread  they  are  given 
only  a  stone.  Doctor  Joseph  Post  Newton  makes  this  startling  dec- 
laration, regarding  the  ineffectiveness  of  the  churches  to  reach  these 
struggling  souls:  "Twenty  per  cent  of.  the  pastors,  who  were  with 
us  before  the  war,  have  resigned  to  enter  other  occupations.  Of  the 
one  hundred  and  ten  million  people  in  the  United  States,  not  more 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


than  forty-four  million  attend  services  in  any  religious  denomination." 
And  the  editor  of  the  World  Outlook  thinks  this:  "A  very  liberal 
estimate.  There  are  today,"  continues  Dr.  Newton,  "three  million 
fewer  children  attending  Sunday  school  in  the  United  States  than  be- 
fore the  war."  And  then  the  editor  of  the  paper  quoted  makes  this 
significant  remark : 

If  anything  is  evident  it  is  that  Protestantism  is  going  to  pieces  faster 
than  the  tale  can  be  told  or  the  figures  be  compiled.  The  great  majority 
of  people,  and  of  intelligent  people,  have  lost  all  confidence  in  existing 
churches  and  have  washed  their  hands  of  them  for  good.  If  religion  is  to 
be  saved  a  revolution  in  thought  and  methods  and  organization  must 
take  place,  no  less  complete  than  that  of  the  Protestant  reformation.  The 
times  are  ripe  for  a  second  Martin  Luther  to  do  to  Protestantism  today 
what  the  first  Luther  did  to  Catholicism  yesterday. 

WHERE  THE  TRUTH  MAY  BE  FOUND. 

On  the  face  of  that  condition,  we  have  this  declaration,  made 
ninety  years  ago,  that  "the  Everlasting  Covenant,  the  gospel,  is  to  be 
a  light  to  the  world  and  is  to  be  a  standard  for  my  people  and  for 
the  Gentiles  to  seek  to  it."  If  this  is  truly  the  light  for  which  the 
world  is  seeking,  it  is  well  to  realize  that  never  before  has  there 
been  such  a  responsibility  upon  you  men,  upon  you  women,  who  as- 
sume to  declare  that  already  in  the  world  is  the  truth  for  which  the 
world  is  struggling.  What  you  claim  must  be  substantiated  by  facts. 
The  tree  must  be  judged  by  its  fruit,  and  mankind  today  are  ready  to 
test  the  fruit  and  act  accordingly.  The  responsibility  of  showing  to 
the  world  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  solve  its  problems  rests 
upon  the  men  who  make  the  claim,  who  believe  that  the  declaration 
made  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  is  true.  We  heard  this  morning  from  my 
brother,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  that  the  Church  is  so  constituted  that 
every  human  need  may  be  supplied.  I  believe  in  his  statement.  I 
believe,  too,  that  every  world  problem  may  be  solved  by  obedience  to 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

AN   EMINENT   STATESMAN'S  SUGGESTION. 

An  eminent  statesman  of  our  own  nation,  one  who  has  won  na- 
tional and  international  eminence,  not  only  as  a  great  leader  in  the 
political  world,  but  as  a  speaker  and  writer  on  religious  topics,  gave 
to  the  world,  in  February,  some  of  his  views  regarding  the  solution 
of  the  difficulties  which  the  churches  now  meet  in  answering  the 
needs  of  humanity.  That  eminent  statesman  is  here  today.  I  in- 
tended to  quote  him.  I  am  sure  that  I  should  not  hesitate  now  to  say 
in  his  presence  what  I  was  going  to  say  in  his  absence.  In  an  excellent 
article  entitled :  "In  the  World,  of  the  World,  and  for  the  World," 
Col.  William  Jennings  Bryan,  in  the  World-Outlook,  of  February,  in 
giving  suggestions  on  how  the  churches  can  make  the  world  a  better 
place  to  live  in,  proposes  first  a  change  of  attitude  toward  amuse- 
ments.   He  writes : 

The  tendency  has  been  to  prohibit  amusements  which  are  hurtful 
rather  than  to  encourage  those  which  are  healthful  and  wholesome.  Amuse- 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY.  117 

ments  are  necessary;  and  if  those  which  uplift  are  not  introduced,  harm- 
ful pastime  will  be  resorted  to.  This  explains  why  so  many  young 
people  are  drawn  away  from  the  Church  just  at  the  age  when  they  ought 
to  be  drawn  into  it — they  are  influenced  by  the  worldly  minded  with  whom 
they  find  amusement  during  their  leisure  hours.  *  *  *  My  suggestion, 
therefore,  is  that  an  effort  should  be  made  to  set  up  a  Christian  standard 
for  Christian  communities  and  to  create  an  environment  that  will  be  help- 
ful to  the  Church  and  the  spiritual  things  for  which  the  Church  stands. 

HELPFUL  ENVIRONMENT  IN   THE  CHURCH   OF  CHRIST. 

The  "Mormon"  Church  has  always  encouraged  legitimate  amuse- 
ments; in  this  respect,  at  least,  it  has  set  a  worthy  example  to  the 
world.  That  "helpful  environment"  mentioned  by  Mr.  Bryan  has 
been  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  ever  since  its  organization.  Away 
back  in  the  days  of  Nauvoo  we  find  the  drama  introduced  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph.  We  find  acting  in  that  drama  men  who  later  be- 
came prominent  leaders  in  the  Church.  Among  them  was  the  man 
who  succeeded  the  Prophet  Joseph,  Brigham  Young.  He,  imbued 
with  the  necessity  of  influencing  the  people  in  their  amusements  and 
of  using  their  recreation  as  a  means  of  instilling  virtue,  integrity,  and 
honesty,  brought  to  these  valleys  that  spirit.  Why,  even  on  the  plains, 
after  a  day's  march,  the  wagons  were  drawn  up  in  a  circle,  a  man  with 
the  violin  would  take  his  place  by  the  campfire  and  there  on  the 
prairie  the  sturdy  Pioneers  would  join  hands  in  a  dance,  opening  it 
by  prayer,  and  participate  in  amusement  that  fostered  the  spirit  of 
the  gospel.  Two  years  had  not  passed  after  their  entrance  into  the 
"Valley"  before  they  built  the  "bowery,"  and  there  presented,  un- 
doubtedly, the  first  drama  that  was  ever  given  in  the  West.  Later  they 
built  the  Social  Hall.  Perhaps,  there  are  those  in  the  audience  today 
who,  after  listening  to  the  opening  prayer,  joined  hands  in  the  cotil- 
lion, dancing  in  a  spirit  best  understood  by  the  remarks  of  President 
Brigham  Young,  who  once  said,  in  substance :  "The  atmosphere  of 
the  dance  should  be  such  that  if  any  elder  be  called  from  the  party  to 
go  to  administer  to  a  sick  person,  he  could  leave  with  the  same  spirit 
that  he  would  go  from  his  elders'  quorum  meeting."  All  over  this 
land,  today,  in  the  excellent  community  centers  established  by  those 
early  pioneers,  you  will  find  the  amusements  characteristic  of  the 
spirit  of  the  community,  fathers,  mothers,  boys  and  girls,  mingling 
together  in  the  dance,  in  the  drama,  and  in  other  social  functions,  the 
modifying  and  uplifting  influence  of  the  Church  permeating  all  gath- 
erings. And  here,  I  add  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  Church  was  the 
first  Church  in  the  world,  I  am  informed,  to  give  approval  to  the  Boy 
Scout  movement.  So,  the  world,  in  order  to  get  into  their  churches  the 
spirit  of  proper  amusements  which  our  eminent  visitor  suggests,  and 
which  I  accept  with  all  my  heart,  need  only  to  accept  the  ideals  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints. 

ANOTHER  EXAMPLE— HELPING  THE  POOR. 

To  quote  further  from  Mr.  Bryan: 

Another  matter  which,  to  my  mind,  needs  attention  is  provision  for  the 
needy  of  the  Church.    Is  there  any  reason  why  a  member  of  the  church 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


should  be  compelled  to  pay  cut-throat  pawnshop  rates,  for  short  loans, 
or  loans  made  on  chattel-mortgage  security?  It  seems  to  me  that  there 
is  imperative  need  for  a  church  corporation  financed  by  church  members 
which  will  make  loans  to  other  members  at  a  rate  sufficient  only  to  cover 
actual  risk,  and  the  risk  ought  to  be  very  small  in  such  cases. 

We  have  in  the  Church  of  Christ  a  condition  which  has  been 
operated  ever  since  its  organization,  which  will  supply  the  needs  of 
every  worthy  person  who  happens  to  be  financially  unfortunate.  It 
is  a  simple  little  thing,  but  in  its  power,  in  its  comprehensive  benefit 
it  smacks  of  the  divinity  with  which  this  Church  is  impregnated.  I 
refer  to  the  Fast  offering  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  is  asked  to 
contribute  on  the  first  Sunday  of  each  month.    It  is  suggested  that 
all  shall  fast  once  a  month.    The  requirement  of  the  Church  is  that 
all  members  shall  observe  the  first  Sunday  of  every  month  as  Fast 
day.    Back  of  that,  however,  is  this,  that  after  abstaining  from  eat- 
ing, from  the  evening  meal  on  Saturday  to  the  evening  meal  on  Sun- 
day, the  value  of  those  two  meals  shall  be  given  to  the  bishop  for 
the  purpose  of  alleviating  the  needs  of  those  who  require  substantial 
assistance.    Now,  at  first  thought,  that  does  not  amount  to  much,  and 
yet  I  find  that  when  the  principle  is  applied  to  the  largest  stake  in  the 
Church,  this  is  the  result:    That  stake  last  year  found  it  necessary 
to  expend  $6,256.09  for  the  relief  of  the  poor.   If  the  members  of  that 
stake  had  placed  a  value  upon  each  meal  only  at  10c  per  capita  the 
bishops  would  have  had  at  their  disposal,  $21,190,  sufficient  to  meet 
not  only  all  the  demands  of  their  own  stake,  but  the  needs  of  the  poor 
in  other  stakes  in  which  the  fast  offerings  might  have  been  insuf- 
ficient.   It  applies  to  the  smallest  stake  just  the  same.    In  the  small- 
est stake  in  the  Church,  with  a  population  of  1,070,  they  expended, 
last  year  approximately,  only  $100  for  the  need  of  the  poor.    It  is  a 
rural  community  in  which  there  are  practically  no  poor.    Had  they 
placed  upon  each  meal  the  value  I  have  named,  the  bishops  in  that 
stake  would  have  had  at  their  command  fifteen  times  more  than  the 
actual  amount  needed  to  supply  their  needs.    Such  application  may 
be  multiplied  by  eighty,  the  number  of  stakes  in  the  Church.  You 
may  multiply  it  by  eight  hundred  or  more,  the  number  of  wards 
in  the  Church  and  you  may  extend  the  plan  over  all  the  world  and 
the  application  of  that  simple  principle  will  supply  the  wants  of  every 
needy  person.  It  is  God's  way.  You  say  people  don't  like  charity?  Why, 
it  should  not  be  administered  as  charity;  but  as  a  co-operative  plan 
of  mutual  service  adopted  for  the  benefit  of  all. 

So  we  might  go  on  with  other  propositions  on  applied  Christi- 
anity named  in  the  article  from  which  I  have  quoted,  and  we  should 
find  that  the  solution  of  the  great  world  problems  is  here  in  the 
Church  of  Christ.  Ample  provision  is  made  not  only  for  the  needs 
of  individuals,  but  for  the  nation  and  groups  of  nations. 

"MORMONISM"  THE  APPLICATION  OF  GOd's  PLAN  TO  SOLVE  WORLD 

PROBLEMS. 

I  realize  that  it  is  a  great  claim.  I  grant  you  that  we  may  seem 
to  be  arrogating  to  ourselves  superior  wisdom,  but  we  are  not.    It  is 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY. 


119 


simply  the  application  of  God's  plan  to  the  world  problems.  I  said 
you  who  hold  the  Priesthood  have  greater  responsibility  today,  now 
that  you  live  in  this  creative  moment  in  the  world's  history,  than  ever 
the  Church  has  had  before.  I  repeat  it.  If  we  make  the  claim  to 
hold  the  truth  it  is  obligatory  upon  every  Latter-day  Saint  so  to  live, 
that  when  the  world  comes,  in  answer  to  the  call,  to  test  the  fruit  of 
the  tree,  it  will  find  it  wholesome  and  good. 

O  may  we  be  able  to  say  truthfully,  to  the  world,  in  the  words 
of  Thomas  Nixon  Carver: 

Come,  our  way  of  life  is  best,  because  it  works  best.  Our  people  are 
efficient,  prosperous  and  happy  because  they  help  one  another  in  the  pro- 
ductive life.  We  waste  none  of  our  substance  in  vice,  luxury  or  ostenta- 
tion. We  do  not  dissipate  our  energy  in  brawling,  gambling,  or  unwhole- 
some habits.  We  conserve  our  resources  of  body  and  mind  and  devote 
them  to  the  upbuilding  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  which  is  not  a  mystical 
but  a  real  kingdom.  It  is  a  body  of  people  dominated  by  ideals  of  pro- 
ductivity, which  is  mutual  service.  We  do  not  strive  for  the  things  which 
satisfy  but  for  the  moment  and  then  leave  a  bad  taste,  we  strive  for  the 
things  which  build  us  up,  and  enable  us  and  our  children  to  flourish  and 
to  conquer.  We  strive  to  make  ourselves  worthy  to  receive  the  world  by 
fitting  ourselves  to  use  the  world  more  productively  than  others.  We  be- 
lieve that  obedience  to  God  means  obedience  to  the  laws  of  nature  which 
are  but  the  manifestations  of  his  will  and  we  try  by  painstaking  study  to 
acquire  the  most  complete  and  exact  knowledge  of  that  will  in  order 
that  we  may  conform  ourselves  to  it.  *  *  *  We  offer  you  hard  work, 
frugal  fare,  severe  discipline,  but  a  share  in  the  conquest  of  the  world 
for  the  religion  of  the  productive  life. 

The  Lord  help  us  to  be  able  to  prove  to  the  world  that  we  possess 
just  what  these  great  thinkers  desire,  just  what  the  world  today  is 
longing  for,  and  when  they  see  it,  may  they  know,  as  you  know,  as 
I  know,  that  the  everlasting  gospel  is  a  light  to  the  world.  May  it 
ever  be  upon  the  hill  a  light  to  the  nations,  a  savior  to  them,  and  solu- 
tion of  all  the  world  problems,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

THE  TRUE   AND  LIVING  GOD. 

Joseph  Smith's  first  great  service  to  humanity  was  in  bringing 
back  the  lost  knowledge  of  the  true  and  living  God.  What  do  we 
mean  by  that  ?  Who  and  what  is  the  true  and  living  God  ?  He  is  the 
God  of  the  Bible,  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  the  God  of 
Adam,  of  Enoch,  of  Noah,  of  the  Patriarchs  and  Prophets  and  Apos- 
tles of  old.  He  is  the  God  described  by  Moses  in  the  first  chapter  of 
Genesis,  thus :  "God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the  image  of 
God  created  he  him,  male  and  female  created  he  them."  This  is  equiv- 
alent to  saying  that  God  is  in  the  form  of  man,  and  that  we  have  a 
Mother  as  well  as  a  Father  in  heaven,  in  whose  image  or  likeness  we 
are,  male  and  female. 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ANCIENT  IDOLS. 

The  world  had  need  of  this  instruction,  for  they  were  worshiping 
all  sorts  of  deities  at  that  time.  They  had  forgotten  the  God  of  their 
fathers,  the  God  of  Adam  and  of  Abraham,  and  were  bowing  down  to 
idols.  In  the  days  of  Moses,  fifteen  centuries  before  Christ,  there  were 
three  great  centers  of  religious  thought  and  philosophy.  One  was 
among  the  Phoenicians  or  Canaanites.  They  worshiped  the  sun  and 
the  moon,  ascribing  to  them  the  powers  of  creation — worshiped  them 
with  licentious  rites  suggestive  of  creation.  This  was  the  worship 
of  Baal  and  Ashtoreth,  against  which  the  children  of  Israel  were  espe- 
cially warned.  Down  in  Egypt  they  adored  beasts  and  reptiles,  such  as 
the  crocodile,  the  bull,  the  goat,  and  the  beetle.  The  gods  were 
supposed  to  be  enshrined  in  such  bodies,  and  if  a  goat  died,  it  was 
buried  with  costliest  ceremonies,  amidst  the  mourning  of  a  nation. 
Away  off  among  the  Hindus  the  seasons  were  deified — spring,  sum- 
mer, autumn,  winter.  These  were  thought  to  be  the  divine  sources 
of  life.  The  passions  of  the  human  heart — love,  hate,  fear,  anger, 
revenge,  and  so  forth — were  also  revered  as  deities.  Then  came 
Moses,  a  man  who  had  seen  the  true  and  living  God,  had  conversed 
with  him  face  to  face,  and  had  received  from  him  the  Decalogue  or 
Ten  Commandments  unto  Israel.  The  first  of  those  commandments 
reads :  "Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me."  Is  it  any  wonder 
that  this  commandment  was  given,  and  given  first,  under  such  condi- 
tions ? 

THE  FATHER'S   "EXPRESS  IMAGE." 

The  world  of  Joseph  Smith's  time  did  not  worship  the  sun  and 
moon,  nor  the  beasts,  nor  the  seasons,  nor  the  passions.  Never- 
theless, they  had  turned  away  from  the  true  God ;  they  ignored  or  mis- 
interpreted what  Moses  had  taught,  that  man  is  in  the  image  of  God, 
and  therefore,  inferentially,  logically,  that  God  is  in  the  image  of  man. 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  whom  the  Scriptures  declare  to  be  "the 
express  image"  of  his  Father's  person,  came  down  from  heaven  and 
walked  as  a  man  upon  the  earth,  plainly  showing  what  kind  of  a  being 
God  is.  Moreover,  wtfen  Philip,  his  disciple,  said  to  him :  "Lord, 
show  us  the  Father,"  Jesus  replied :  "He  that  hath  seen  me  hath  seen 
the  Father."  But  this  teaching  was  lost  upon  the  modern  Christian 
world. 

THE    CHRISTIAN  DEITY. 

What  kind  of  a  God  was  Christendom  worshiping  when  Joseph 
Smith  and  "Mormonism"  came  forth?  Let  Christian  theology  tell. 
Therein  it  was  written,  and  it  stands  to  this  day,  that  God  is  a  being 
without  body,  parts,  or  passions.  The  Church  of  England  Articles  of 
Religion  so  declare.  The  Presbyterian  Confession  of  Faith  so  af- 
firms. And  this  was  the  popular  concept  of  Deity  throughout  the 
Christian  world  at  the  opening  of  the  Nineteenth  Century.    In  line 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


121 


with  that  tenet  and  teaching,  the  English  poet  Pope,  who  figured  in 
the  Eighteenth  Century,  represents  God  as  a  spirit  or  "soul"  that 

Warms  in  the  sun,  refreshes  in  the  breeze, 
Glows  in  the  stars  and  blossoms  in  the  trees, 
Lives  through  all  life,  extends  through  all  extent, 
Spreads  undivided,  operates  unspent. 

A  very  admirable  description  of  what  might  be  termed  a  spiritual 
emanation  from  God,  that  universally  diffused  essence  that  proceeds 
forth  from  the  Divine  Presence,  and  is  the  power  that  enlightens 
in  greater  or  less  degree  every  man  that  cometh  into  the  world.  It 
is  indeed  the  light  of  the  sun,  moon  and  stars ;  the  light  also  of  the 
human  understanding ;  in  it  we  live,  move,  and  have  our  being,  for  it  is 
the  principle  of  life  throughout  creation.  But  that  is  not  the  God 
who  made  man  in  his  own  image.  That  is  not  the  Father,  represented 
by  the  Son,  in  whom  "dwelt  the  fulness  of  the  Godhead  bodily."  It 
is  not  even  the  personage  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

DIVINITY  AND  ITS  EMANATION. 

There  are  Three  that  bear  rule  in  the  heavens,  the  Father,  the 
Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  three  distinct  personalities,  but  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  according  to  Joseph  Smith,  are  personages  of  tabernacle, 
having  bodies  "as  tangible  as  man's,"  while  the  Holy  Ghost  "is  a 
personage  of  spirit."  From  this  Eternal  Godhead  proceeds  a  spiritual 
power  or  essence,  omnipresent  and  immanent  in  all  things;  and  this 
is  what  the  poet  was  describing  when  he  portrayed  God  as  a  "soul" 
that  "warms  in  the  sun,  refreshes  in  the  breeze,  glows  in  the  stars  and 
blossoms  in  the  trees,"  etc.  This  is  what  the  Christian  sects  were 
worshiping — not  Divinity,  but  an  emanation  from  Divinity.  They 
had  turned  from  the  truth  "unto  fables,"  as  did  the  ancients;  and  it 
devolved  upon  Joseph  Smith  to  shatter  the  false  doctrine  of  a  bodiless, 
passionless  Deity,  and  bring  back  the  precious  knowledge  that  had 
been  lost. 

Joseph's  vision. 

We  are  all  familiar  with  the  story — how  a  boy  of  fourteen 
years  went  into  the  forest  and  prayed;  how  he  wrestled  with  Satan, 
and  was  delivered ;  how  he  saw  a  light  above  his  head  brighter  than 
the  noonday  sun,  and  in  the  midst  of  it  two  glorious  beings  in  the 
form  of  man,  One  of  whom,  pointing  to  the  Other,  said :  This  is  my 
beloved  Son,  hear  him."  From  that  hour,  there  was  one  person,  at 
least,  upon  this  planet  who  knew  what  kind  of  a  being  God  is.  It  was 
a  virtual  reassertion  of  the  first  commandment  in  the  Decalogue,  v 
"Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me." 

WHAT  CONSTITUTES  IDOLATRY? 

To  worship  anything  that  God  has  made,  is  to  practice  idolatry. 
It  matters  not  What  it  is.  If  we  turn  from  the  Creator  to  the  crea- 
ture ;  if  we  forget  the  Giver  and  adore  the  gift ;  if  we  forsake  God  and 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


worship  an  emanation  from  God,  we  are  idolaters,  just  as  much  as  if 
we  worshiped  the  sun  and  moon,  or  bowed  down  to  goats  and  croco- 
diles. The  man  who  loves  money  and  makes  it  his  main  object — 
makes  it  an  end  instead  of  a  means — is  an  idol-worshiper.  Wealth 
is  a  blessing  from  God,  and  so  is  the  gift  to  acquire  it;  and  if  men, 
when  they  become  rich,  use  their  ridies  in  the  way  God  designed,  he 
approves  of  them  and  blesses  them  more  abundantly.  But  the  man 
who  adores  his  possessions,  and  forgets  that  they  were  given  for  a 
good,  a  wise,  an  unselfish  and  an  altruistic  purpose,  is  an  idolater,  akin 
to  those  ancient  peoples,  who  in  their  spiritual  blindness  worshiped 
things  that  God  had  made  and  given,  instead  of  the  Maker  and 
Giver. 

THE  FINAL  DISPENSATION. 

Joseph  Smith's  next  great  service  to  the  race  was  in  opening 
this  gospel  dispensation — the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 
What  does  that  mean  ?  To  dispense  is  to  distribute  or  deal  out  in  por- 
tions, as  when  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper  is  dispensed  to  a 
religious  congregation.  In  a  larger  sense,  it  signifies  the  opening 
of  the  heavens  and  the  sending  forth  of  the  gospel  and  the  powers 
of  the  Priesthood,  as  a  boon  and  blessing  to  mankind.  The  term-  "dis- 
pensation" also  defines  the  period  during  which  these  saving  and  ex- 
alting principles,  thus  sent  forth,  continue  operative  in  pristine  power 
and  purity.  There  have  been  many  dispensations  of  the  gospel,  though 
men  know  little  concerning  them.  The  gospel  of  Christ  is  more  than 
"the  power  of  God  unto  salvation ;"  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  ex- 
altation, and  was  instituted  as  such  before  this  earth  rolled  into  exist- 
ence, before  Adam  fell,  and  consequently  before  man  had  need  of 
redemption  and  salvation.  It  is  the  way  of  eternal  progress,  the  path 
to  perfection,  and  has  been  upon  earth  in  a  series  of  dispensations 
reaching  like  a  mighty  chain  from  the  days  of  Adam  down  to  the 
present  time.  The  great  difference  between  this  dispensation  and  all 
others  is,  that  this  is  the  last  and  the  greatest,  virtually  all  dispensa- 
tions rolled  into  one.  God  has  decreed  to  bring  together  all  things 
that  are  Christ's,  both  on  earth  and  in  heaven,  and  the  first  part  of 
the  divine  program  is  the  gathering  of  scattered  Israel  and  the  building 
up  of  Zion,  preparatory  to  the  coming  of  the  King  of  kings,  the  ush- 
ering in  of  the  Millennial  Reign,  the  sanctifying  of  the  "earth,  and 
its  eventual  glorification,  when  it  will  be  converted  into  a  celestial 
sphere,  an  abode  of  the  righteous  forever. 

NOT   AN  ACCIDENT. 

It  was  no  accident,  no  chance  happening — Joseph  Smith's  going 
into  the  grove  that  spring  morning,  one  hundred  years  ago.  It  was 
an  event  predestined,  heaven-inspired.  I  once  thought  that  any 
good  boy  who  prayed  in  faith  could  see  just  what  Joseph  saw.  But 
I  have  put  away  that  childish  notion.  I  have  learned  that  all  boys 
are  not  Joseph  Smiths.  God  hears  and  answers  the  prayers  of  the 
humblest  of  his  children ;  but  he  answers  them  as  seemeth  him  best, 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


123 


and  not  always  in  the  same  way.  He  gives  according  to  the  capacity 
of  the  one  who  receives. 

PROPHET  AND  SEER. 

• 

It  was  no  ordinary  man  that  went  into  the  woods  that  morning  to 
pray.  It  was  a  Prophet,  a  Seer.  Joseph  Smith  was  not  made  a  prophet 
by  the  people  who  held  up  their  hands  for  him  on  the  sixth  of  April, 
1830,  when  this  Church  was  organized.  He  was  already  a  prophet, 
chosen,  as  Abraham  had  been,  before  he  was  born ;  ordained,  like  Jere- 
miah, before  he  was  formed  in  the  flesh.  The  people  merely  "sus- 
tained" him  in  that  position,  manifesting  by  the  uplifted  hand  that 
they  were  willing  to  follow  him  as  their  leader,  and'  to  accept  of  his 
ministrations  in  that  capacity.  He  was  already  a  prophet,  already  a 
seer;  God  had  made  him  such  in  advance.  But  all  men  are  not 
Joseph  Smiths.  He  was  a  man  like  unto  Moses.  He  was  the  rarest 
human  being  that  has  walked  this  earth  in  the  past  two  thousand 
years.  And  why  did  he  go  into  the  grove  that  morning  and  pray  for 
wisdom  and  light?  It  was  because  the  time  had  come.  The  Hour 
had  struck,  and  The  Man  was  there — the  man  whom  God  had  provided. 

THE  WORLD'S  SATURDAY  NIGHT. 

We  are  living  in  the  Saturday  night  of  the  world's  history.  Earth 
has  labored  six  days,  and  will  rest  upon  the  seventh,  her  period  of  sanc- 
tification.  This  is  the  significance  of  "Mormonism,"  of  Joseph  Smith, 
and  of  the  work  that  he  inaugurated — the  lifting  of  the  Ensign  for 
Israel's  gathering  upon  this  the  land  of  Joseph,  the  land  of  Zion,  to 
build  the  New  Jerusalem,  and  prepare  the  way  for  the  coming  of  the 
Lord  in  his  glory.  Earth  has  labored  six  days  but  they  are  not  days 
of  twenty-four  hours  each.  Joseph  taught  that  there  is  a  great  planet 
named  Kolob,  nearest  the  Celestial  Throne,  and  that  it  revolves  once  in 
a  thousand  years.  That  is  a  day  with  God.  It  was  such  a  day  that 
Adam  was  warned  of  when  told:  "The  day  that  thou  eatest  thereof, 
thou  shalt  surely  die;  for  Adam,  after  eating  of  the  forbidden  fruit, 
lived  to  the  age  of  nine  hundred  and  thirty  years.  It  was  such  a  day 
that  Peter  had  in  mind  when  he  wrote:  "A  day  with  the  Lord  is  as 
a  thousand  years,  and  a  thousand  years  as  one  day."  According  to 
our  Prophet's  teachings,  God  gave  to  this  planet,  Mother  Earth,  seven 
thousand  years  as  the  period  of  "its  temporal  existence;"  and  four 
thousand  years,  or  four  of  those  great  days,  had  passed  before  Christ 
was  crucified,  while  nearly  two  thousand  years,  or  two  more  days, 
have  gone  by  since.  Consequently,  we  stand  at  the  present  moment  in 
the  Saturday  Evening  of  Time,  near  the  close  of  the  sixth  day,  at  the 
week's  end  of  human  history.  Morning  will  break  upon  the  Millen- 
nium, the  thousand  years  of  peace,  the  Sabbath  of  the  World. 

HOUSE-CLEANING  IN  PROGRESS. 

Marvel  not,  therefore,  that  all  things  are  in  commotion.  War, 
famine,  pestilence,  earthquake,  tempest  and  tidal  wave — these  are 
among  the  predicted  signs  of  the  Savior's  second  coming.   Earth  must 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


be  freed  from  oppression  and  cleansed  from  all  iniquity.  It  is  God's 
House,  and  he  is  coming  to  live  in  it,  and  to  make  of  it  a  glorified 
mansion.  House-cleaning  is  in  progress,  and  Saturday's  work  must  be 
done  and  out  of  the  way  before  the  Lord  of  the  Sabbath  appears. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  what  is  right, 
let  the  consequence  follow." 

ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

(Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church) 

I  need  not  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  is  something 
of  a  surprise  to  me  to  be  called  on  this  afternoon.  However,  I  learned 
in  the  early  days  of  my  experience  in  this  Church  that  obedience  is 
the  first  law  of  the  gospel  and  I  know  that  we  should  always  try  to 
comply  with  the  requirements  of  our  brethren  who  preside  over  us. 

A  WONDERFUL  ATTENDANCE  OF  MEN. 

It  has  been  a  great  pleasure  to  me  to  sit  in  this  conference  during 
its  different  sessions  and  listen  to  the  remarks  that  have  been  made  by 
the  brethren,  and  to  see  this  great  audience  day  after  day.  Yester- 
day the  building  was  even  more  crowded  than  it  is  today,  yet  so  far 
as  I  can  see  every  seat  is  taken.  This  16  an  inspiration  of  itself.  I 
don't  know  where  you  will  go  anywhere  in  the  world  to  find  a  re- 
ligious congregation  such  as  this.  In  most  religious  gatherings  we 
find  the  women  predominating,  but  here  I  see  extending  clean  back 
two-thirds  of  the  way  a  great  body  of  men,  sturdy,  strong,  hard-fisted, 
hard-working,  intelligent,  well  clad,  good  men.  And  also  a  large 
number  of  the  most  splendid  women  in  all  the  world.  It  is  marvelous. 
It  is  an  evidence  that  you  are  in  earnest,  that  you  believe  what  we 
have  heard,  and  that  which  we  do  hear  is  ih  very  deed  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

THE  CENTENNIAL  OF  A  GREAT  EVENT.  / 

We  have  heard  over  and  over  again  the  story  of  the  boy  prophet, 
which  has  been  the  general  theme  of  this  conference,  since  it  is  the 
centennial  of  that  event:  that  great  event  which  occurred,  as  Elder 
Whitney  has  just  told  us,  because  the  great  clock  of  time  had  struck 
the  hour  when  the  gospel  was  to  be  restored.  The  prophet  was  there, 
the  fore-ordained  prophet ;  the  place  was  prepared,  everything  was  in 
readiness  for  the  greatest  spiritual  manifestation  that  the  world  has 
seen ;  the  greatest  event  indeed  that  has  transpired  in  the  world  since 
the  days  of  the  Savior  of  mankind,  that  is,  since  he  lived  in  the  flesh. 
Of  course,  other  manifestations  followed  in  due  time,  giving  instruc- 
tion, line  upon  line,  precept  upon  precept,  here  a  little  and  there  a 
little,  until  there  grew  under  the  guidance  of  the  young  prophet  this 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY. 


125 


most  wonderful  organization  named  by  the  Lord,  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

WHAT  ARE  THE  FRUITS  OF  "MORMONISM  ?" 

Now,  one  of  the  two  things  we  can  say  must 'be  true.  That  vision, 
that  manifestation,  the  beginning  of  this  great  work,  the  very  in- 
ception of  it,  the  first  word  that  we  ever  heard  of  it  is  right  there.  Now 
that  word  was  true  or  it  was  false.  It  must  be  one  or  the  other.  We 
accept  that  fully  and  finally.  Was  it  true  ?  How  shall  we  measure  it  ? 
How  shall  we  prove  it?  The  Savior  of  the  world  said  a  tree  is  known 
by  its  fruit.  Men  do  not  gather  grapes  of  thorns,  nor  figs  of  thistles. 
We  know  that  doctrine  to  be  true.  Now  what  are  the  fruits  that  this 
tree  called  "Mormonism"  has  produced?  In  the  ninety  years  that 
have  passed  since  the  Church  was  organized  or  in  the  one  hundred 
years  since  that  great  spiritual  manifestation,  what  are  the  fruits  of 
this  tree?  Well,  let  me  call  your  attention  to  two  or  three  little  items 
that  are  more  material  than  spiritual.  The  Savior  himself  stated  to 
those  who  could  not  believe  his  doctrine  that  they  might  at  least 
believe  the  works,  for  they  were  patent,  they  were  self-evident.  Any 
person  might  believe  them  because  there  they  were.  So  we  say,  if  you 
cannot  believe  our  doctrine  you  must  believe  the  works  for  there  they 
are  manifest.  Now  was  it  a  good  work?  Has  it  been  a  good  work 
to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  poor  of  the  world  ?  For  we  can  say  with  one 
of  the  apostles  of  old,  "Not  many  wise  men  after  the  flesh,  not  many 
mighty,  not  many  noble,  are  called."  No,  they  turn  from  it,  the  sac- 
rifice is  too  much  for  them.  But  not  so  with  all  of  the  poor  of  the 
world.  Some  have  believed.  They  have  answered  the  call.  The 
Savior's  call  was,  "Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy 
laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest."  There  never  was  rest  for  the  body, 
but  rather  hard  work,  labor,  industry.  Now  has  that  been  a  good 
work  to  gather  these  people  from  every  nation  under  the  sun  and 
bring  them  to  this  goodly  land,  to  teach  them  industry,  so- 
briety, honesty  and  to  colonize  them  in  the  way  that  has  been  done? 
Was  it  a  good  work  to  teach  them  the  cooperative  spirit  that  has  been 
manifested  throughout  the  building  of  our  colonies  in  every  part 
of  this  intermountain  country :  in  the  fencing  of  fields,  in  the  digging 
of  irrigation  ditches,  in  the  building  of  canyon  roads  and  bridges  ?  Is 
all  that  good  or  bad?  If  it  is  bad,  then  the  tree  has  brought  forth  evil 
fruit  and  we  should  denounce  it :  if  it  is  good,  then  the  works  speak 
for  themselves  and  we  should  accept  it. 

THE  MISSIONARY  SYSTEM  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 

"Mormonism"  has  sent  out,  and  continues  to  send  out,  its  young 
men  and  young  women  by  the  hundreds  and  thousands,  making  the 
sacrifice  of  their  time  and  their  means,  paying  their  own  way  in  the 
world,  going  to  preach  the  gospel.  They  believe  with  all  their  hearts 
that  here  in  this  Church  rests  divine  authority  which  was  delivered  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  under  the  administration  of  John  the  Bap- 
tist who  conferred  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  the  Aaronic 


126 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE. 


Priesthood;  and  also  the  administration  of  Peter,  James,  and  John 
under  whose  hands  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  received  the 
authority  of  the  holy  Apostleship.  Not  the  authority  of  man,  but 
divine  authority.  These  young  men  who  go  out  as  missionaries,  go 
into  the  world  and  deliver  the  message  in  their  own  simple  way ;  many 
of  them  not  very  well  learned  and  many  of  them  educated.  And  they 
gather  up  those  who  will  listen  and  obey.  They  would  be  glad  to 
have  the  great  and  the  mighty  listen  to  their  messave  but  as  a  rule 
they  will  not.  The  sacrifice  seems  to  be  too  great.  "Oh,  to  be  called 
a  'Mormon,'  "  they  say ;  "we  could  never  stand  to  be  connected  with 
that  despised  people."  My  own  mother  was  an  outcast  from  her  fam- 
ily because  she  joined  this  Church,  and  her  people  were  not  wealthy 
people,  far  from  it,  but  even  in  their  poverty  those  of  her  people  who 
would  not  receive  this  message  would  have  nothing  whatever  to  do 
with  her,  because,  forsooth,  she  had  joined  this  discredited,  unpopular 
religion  which  'was  denounced  as  a  fraud,  a  delusion  and  a  snare. 

These  elders  have  gone  forth  in  that  way,  without  purse  or  scrip, 
so  to  speak.  It  is  true,  they  cannot  become  public  charges  on  the  com- 
munities and  so  they  have  taken  their  own  means,  because  there  are 
no  salaries.  They  have  not  asked,  "What  is  the  salary  or  what  are  you 
going  to  pay  me  ?"  Not  at  all,  never  once.  They  receive  that  call  and  that 
authority  under  the  hands  of  the  priesthood,  the  servants  of  the  living 
God  who  hold  that  Priesthood  today;  the  same  Priesthood  which  was 
committed  by  Peter,  James  and  John  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is 
held  here  today  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  his  brethren.  The 
same  authority,  divine  authority,  is  conferred  upon  these  missionaries 
and  they  go  forth  and  gather  up  these  people  and  they  inspire  in  their 
hearts  faith  in  God,  repentance  of  sin,  baptism  for  the  remission  of 
sins  and  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  And 
they  also  teach  them  virtue,  honesty,  industry,  and  that  they  must  love 
one  another,  love  the  Lord  with  all  their  heart  and  their  neighbor  as 
themselves.  These  people  come  from  afar  and  produce  what  we  see. 
Is  that  missionary  work  a  bad  work?  If  it  is,  then  "Mormonism"  is 
bad.  But  who  shall  say  that  that  is  not  the  best,  the  very  best  work 
that  any  man  could  possibly  do,  to  bring  the  poor  of  the  earth  here 
and  plant  them  in  this  land  and  make  them  independent  ?  Is  it  desired 
that  they  shall  work  for  and  enrich  the  Church  ?  No.  But  they  shall 
enrich  themselves  so  that  they  shall  own  their  own  homes.  Is  it  a  bad 
thing  for  people  to  own  their  own  homes?  You  know  the  cry  of 
home  building  that  we  hear  now  on  every  hand.  Well,  the  Latter-day 
Saint  communities  own  their  own  homes  in  larger  number  than  any  like 
number  of  people  in  all  the  world.  Is  that  evil?  Is  that  bad?  If  it  is, 
then  "Mormonism"  is  bad. 

THE  RESULTS  OF  THE  "MORMON"  COLONIZATION  POLICY. 

Wherever  our  Elders  have  gone,  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mex- 
ico on  the  south,  in  their  colonization  schemes  that  has  always  been  the 
result :  orderly  communities  containing  meetinghouses,  schoolhouses, 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY. 


127 


amusement  halls.  These  you  will  see  on  every  hand.  If  that  one  hundred 
years  had  been  spent  by  the  "Mormon"  people  in  Mexico  and  the  peo- 
ple of  Mexico  at  the  end  of  the  one  hundred  years  were  as  degraded 
and  wretched  and  superstitious  and  in  so  many  ways  undesirable  as 
we  see  them  today,  then  you  might  know  that  "Mormonism"  could  not 
be  from  God.  But  not  so,  the  very  reverse  has  been  true  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Not  only  so,  but  our  social  life,  our  amusements 
that  you  have  heard  about  this  afternoon  from  Elder  McKay,  our 
education  and  our  progress  in  every  way  show  that  the  fruit  has  been 
good.  President  Grant  read  here  yesterday  a  statement  of  the  differ- 
ent expenditures  that  have  been  made  from  the  tithings  of  the  people 
during  the  year  1919,  showing  that  over  $2,300,000  had  gone  back 
to  the  Latter-day  Saint  communities  for  their  numberless  activities ; 
among  these  expenditures  was  an  item  of  $687,000  for  church  schools. 
Now  remember  we  pay  taxes  for  the  district  schools,  for  the  high 
schools,  for  the  agricultural  college,  for  the  University,  taxes  galore 
these  days,  no  end  of  taxes,  but  in  addition  to  that  we  have  paid  out 
$687,000  from  the  tithing  of  our  people  for  the  one  item  of  educa- 
tion of  the  children  of  the  Latter-day  Saints;  and,  indeed,  the  children 
of  others  who  choose  to  come  to  our  schools,  for  we  welcome  them 
all.   Is  that  bad?   If  it  is,  "Mormonism"  is  bad. 

We  have  built  meetinghouses  and  churches  all  over  the  land.  These 
stand  as  evidences  of  our  work.  I  remember  when  I  was  a  boy  only 
twenty  years  of  age,  over  there  in  the  old  Social  Hall,  in  1869,  I  met 
with  some  brethren  who  were  called  by  President  Brigham  Young  to 
go  out  on  missions  and  he  said  to  us  in  these  words,  "I  do  not  want 
you  to  tell  the  people  that  we  have  a  rich  country  and  that  they  can 
get  free  land,  free  this  and  free  the  other;  do  not  entice  them  by  the 
promise  of  wealth  and  riches.  I  want  you  to  promise  them  hard  work 
and  persecution."  That  was  what  President  Brigham  Young  in- 
structed us  in  those  early  days  to  promise  the  people  among  whom  we 
labored  as  missionaries. 

A  VITALITY  IN  "MORMONISM"  NOT  FOUND  ELSEWHERE.         *  _ 

On  the  announcement  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  he  had 
received  a  vision,  if,  instead  of  reviling  and  denouncing  and  persecut- 
ing him,  the  people  of  the  world  had  risen  as  with  one  acclaim  and 
shouted  "Hosanna,"  and  had  been  thankful  for  that  vision,  I  would 
have  been,  I  think,  in  serious  doubt  myself  as  to  its  truth.  Why  ?  Be- 
cause the  people  of  the  world  never  before  received  a  message  from 
the  Lord  in  any  such  spirit.  The  Master  himself  had  to  say  to  them  : 
"Which  of  the  prophets  have  not  your  fathers  stoned  and  persecuted  ? 
That  is  the  way  the  message  from  the  Lord  has  been  received  now  and 
always.  So  if  the  people  today  should  rise  up  and  say,  These  Mor- 
mon" people  are  just  what  they  claim  to  be,  it  would  be  very  different 
indeed  from  what  we  have  reason  to  expect  fom  the  history  of  the  past. 
We  do  not  receive  that  kind  of  plaudit.  But  on  the  contrary  as  a  rule 
we  are  reviled  and  scorned.  However,  I  will  say  that  this  truth  this 
gospel  truth,  is  making  its  way  in  the  world'  and  thinking  people  here 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  there,  men  whose  opinions  are  worth  having,  the  judgment  of 
one  of  whom,  as  Hamlet  says,  must  in  our  opinion  outweigh  a  whole 
theatre  of  others,  such  men  begin  to  think  and  realize  that  there  is 
a  force,  a  potency,  a  power  and  a  virility  in  "Mormonism,"  a  life-giving 
spirit  that  we  do  not  find  anywhere  else. 

THE   LATTER-DAY   SAINTS   ARE    MULTIPLYING   AND   REPLENISHING  THE 

EARTH. 

In  these  days  when  the  nations  of  the  earth,  France  in  particular, 
and  indeed  all  the  nations  are  encouraging  the  rearing  of  large  fam- 
ilies of  children — a  principle  which  this  Church  has  taught  and  preached 
and  practiced  from  the  beginning,  and  even  now,  when  plural  mar- 
riage is  prohibited  by  law,  and  has  been  for  about  thirty  years,  yet 
the  practice  and  the  preaching  and  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  that  we  shall  multiply  and  re- 
plenish the  earth  and  make  the  desert  blossom  as  the  rose.  That  has 
been  our  practice  and  our  teaching.  Is  that  bad?  Will  any  man  rise 
up  and  say  that  that  is  bad  teaching  and  that  this  tree  has  brought  forth 
bad  fruit?  No,  he  will  not.  That  is,  any  sensible  man  will  not.  It 
is  good.    It  is  what  the  world  is  going  to  call  for. 

ENTERTAINMENT  AND  ORGAN  RECITALS  FREE. 

Right  here  on  this  block  we  see  300,000  people  a  year,  tourists, 
coming  and  going  every  year.  There  is  something  a  little  different 
right  here.  It  is  only  a  small  thing  but  it  is  worth  noting.  I  have 
traveled  and  many  of  you  have  traveled,  for  you  are  the  most  trav- 
eled community,  you  Latter-day  Saint  elders  and  sisters,  of  any  com- 
munity in  all  the  world,  and  you  have  learned  by  travel  as  well  as 
by  study,  as  this  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  contains  the 
revelation  of  the  Lord  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  tells  us  to 
seek  knowledge  by  study  and  by  faith  and  to  seek  learning  from  all 
good  books.  You  have  been  over  the  world  and  I  have,  and  I  have 
never  gone  into  any  cathedral  or  scarcely  any  place  of  note,  especially 
in  the  Old  World,  but  what  there  has  been  somebody  around  to  hold 
out  his  hand  and  ask  for  money,  or  a  place  would  be  pointed  out  to  you, 
where  you  could  go  and  put  your  money,  or  in  some  way  or  other  your 
money  would  be  extracted  from  you.  Here  on  this  block  the  300,000 
or  more  tourists  who  come  and  go  receive  our  entertainment  and  free 
organ  recitals  and  not  a  cent  is  taken  from  them  in  any  shape  or  form. 
Freely  we  have  received  and  freely  we  give.  <  Our  employees  here 
would  not  dare  to  receive  one  cent  in  remuneration  for  their  work  from 
the  tourists  who  come  here.  Now  is  that  bad,  think  you  ?  The  tour- 
ists do  not  think  so.    They  think  it  is  pretty  good. 

HONESTY  AND  LOYALTY  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 

As  to  loyalty  to  country,  so  far  as  it  applies  to  the  "Mormon" 
people,  we  challenge  comparison.  We  have  been  taught  from  our  in- 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY. 


129 


fancy  that  this  is  a  favored  nation.  Right  here  in  these  revelations  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  you  can  read  in  one  of  them  these  words, 
that  the  Lord  raised  up  wise  men  for  the  very  purpose  of  framing  the 
constitution  of  this  great  country,  so  we  have  the  word  of  the  Lord 
which  we  accept  implicitly  that  this  nation  was  brought  into  existence 
by  the  Divine  Power  and  not  altogether  by  the  power  of  man.  It  is 
the  best  government  in  all  the  world,  the  freest,  and  with  all  its  im- 
perfections, of  which  there  are  many,  it  is  the  very  best,  the  best  that 
the  Lord  could  get  the  people  to  accept.  He  could  not  have  given  the 
people  anything  better  because  they  probably  would  not  have  accepted 
it.  St.  Paul  tells  us  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  perfect  law  of 
liberty.  And  this  same  gospel  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  believe  in  is  in  advance  of  the  law  of  the  land.  It 
is  supplementing  it.  It  does  not  act  in  contradiction  to  it;  not  at  all, 
but  is  upholding  it,  fostering  it,  and  going  a  little  further  in  the 
way  of  perfect  liberty.  Let  me  relate  one  little  incident.  I  remember 
being  up  in  Bear  Lake  county,  Idaho,  a  good  many  years  ago.  A 
brother  in  the  Church  owed  a  debt  to  a  man  who  was  not  a  member 
of  the  Church.  The  late  President  William  Budge,  whom  most  of 
you  knew,  was  then  alive  and  presiding  there.  This  brother  could  not 
pay  his  obligation  for  some  time  after  it  became  due  and  the  note  was 
outlawed  according  to  the  law  of  the  land.  It  was  the  best  law  that  man 
has  been  able  to  devise,  and  according  to  that  law  of  the  land  this 
brother  was  free  from  that.  debt.  No  law  of  the  land  could  touch  him. 
But  there  was  a  higher  law  that  could  supplement  the  law  of  the  land 
and  reach  him,  and  that  was  the  Church  law,  which  says,  "Pay  your  ' 
honest  debts ;  if  you  do  not  you  shall  not  have  fellowship  with  us."  Is 
that  bad  doctrine  ?  That  is  the  kind  of  fruit  that  this  tree  is  producing. 
You  think  it  is  bad?  I  think  it  is  mighty  good.  So  this  brother  was 
brought  up  by  President  William  Budge.  The  debt  was  proved.  He  had 
to  admit  that  he  owed  the  obligation,  but  it  had  been  outlawed  and  he 
thought  nothing  more  of  it.  However,  he  was  compelled,  so  far  as 
the  rule  of  the  Church  could  compel  him,  to  pay  the  debt.  Of  course,  the 
Church  could  not  take  his  property  fromi  him,  but  it  could  say  and 
did  say,  "You  shall  have  no  fellowship  with  us  unless  you  pay  that 
honest  debt.  We  do  not  care  if  it  were  outlawed  a  hundred  times.  It 
is  an  honest  debt  and  you  must  pay  it."  And  he  did  pay  it.  That  is 
what  I  mean  when  I  say  there  is  a  higher  and  better  law. 

Now,  believing  as  we  do,  that  this  government  is  an  inspiration 
from  the  Almighty,  ought  we  not  to  be  more  loyal  to  it  than  those 
who  do  not  so  believe  ?  The  Church  itself  in  this  respect  has  done  what 
no  other  Church  that  I  know  anything  about  has  been  able  to  do,  for 
the  Church  by  the  vote  of  its  general  conference  of  all  the  people, 
authorized  the  purchase  of  one  million  dollars  in  government  bonds 
to  assist  the  government  in  its  time  of  stress  and  when  it  needed  the 
help.  Do  you  think  that  was  a  bad  thing  for  the  Church  to  do  ?  Could 
it  be  charged  with  disloyalty  in  doing  that  ?  Show  me  any  other  church 
that  has  done  as  well.  The  law  of  the  Church  insists  that  I  shall  love 
my  neighbor  and  that  I  shall  not  hate  him.    But  the  law  of  the  land 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


will  allow  me  to  go  on  hating  my  neighbor  with  intense  and  bitter 
hatred  if  I  choose  to  do  so. 

THE  CHURCH  IS  THOUGHTFUL  OF  THE  POOR. 

The  law  of  the  land  does  not  ask  me  to  fast  on  the  first  Sunday 
in  the  month  but  the  Church  asks  me  to  fast  and  to  give  the  equivalent 
of  the  two  meals  to  the  poor.  My  doctor  tells  me  that  I  am  better  if 
I  do  fast ;  that  the  food  thus  consumed  would  be  wasted  on  my  system 
and  that  I  am  really  benefited  by  the  fasting.  So  I  have  not  lost  any- 
thing; I  have  actually  been  benefited  physically  and  I  give,  say  only 
twenty  cents  once  a  month,  figuring  that  meals  would  not  cost  over 
ten  cents  each.  I  give  the  twenty  cents  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor. 
That  simple  law  if  it  were  practiced  by  the  one  hundred  ten  million 
people  in  the  United  States  would  mean  twenty-two  million  dollars  a 
month  or  two  hundred  sixty-four  million  dollars  a  year,  which  if  wisely 
used  would  be  more  than  sufficient  to  provide  for  the  poor  abundantly, 
and  leave  means  to  spare.  Now  I  call  this  doctrine  of  fasting  and 
giving  to  the  poor,  a  mighty  good,  sound  doctrine.  Surely  no  man 
could  say  there  is  anything  bad  about  it. 

THE  SPIRIT  THAT  IMPELS  TO  SACRIFICE  AND  WORK. 

There  is  one  other  thing,  greater  than  all ;  greater  than  all  I  have 
mentioned;  greater  than  our  industry,  our  colonization  and  all  the 
splendid  works  that  people  can  see,  and  it  is  that  which  they  cannot 
see  nor  can  they  comprehend,  the  spirit  that  impels  us  to  these  works. 
That  is  a  different  thing.  The  wind  bloweth  where  it  listeth.  We 
cannot  hear  the  sound  thereof ;  you  do  not  know  whence  it  cometh 
or  whither  it  goeth.  So  with  everyone  who  is  born  of  this  Spirit.  You 
received  of  that  Spirit  when  you  believed  what  the  elders  said,  that 
God  had  spoken,  that  these  revelations  had  come  to  Joseph  Smith 
and  that  they  were  true.  You  believed  it  and  you  obeyed  it  accord- 
ing to  these  commandments.  Is  there  anything  wrong  about  faith, 
about  repentance,  about  baptism,  about  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost?  Who  will  say  that  that  is  bad?  With  the 
compliance  of  that  law  and  faith  has  come  what  we  call  a  testimony, 
a  sure  knowledge  of  God,  or,  as  the  Scriptures  of  olden  times  said, 
you  shall  grow  in  grace  and  in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  if 
you  abide  in  the  truth  the  truth  will  make  you  free.  Now,  no  sane 
man  will  say  that  that  is  bad  doctrine.  Do  you  think  it  is  ?  That  spirit 
is  what  upholds  "Mormonism"  and  sustains  it.  The  knowledge  in 
the  hearts  and  souls  of  its  members  that  God  has  spoken;  that  Jesus 
is  indeed  the  Christ,  the  son  of  the  living  God;  that  Joseph  Smith 
did  see  the  vision  one  hundred  years  ago.  If  he  did  not,  if  it  was  all 
a  lie,  would  the  fruits  that  I  have  mentioned  be  apparent?  Why, 
the  logic  of  the  case  is  irrefutable.  It  cannot  be  gainsaid.  It  must 
stand.  It  is  true.  There  can  be  no  mistake.  It  is  of  God  and  this 
spirit  has  gripped  the  heart  and  soul  of  you,  true  believers,  so  that  you 
know  of  the  doctrines,  as  the  Savior  said,  "Whether  they  be  of  God  or 


BISHOP  CHARLES  IV.  NIBLEY. 


131 


whether  I  speak  of  myself."  And  in  consequence  of  that  knowledge 
you  have  been  willing  to  make  great  sacrifices.  That  is  what  this 
spirit  has  brought  greater  than  all  else  that  I  have  mentioned,  the 
spirit  of  sacrifice  in  the  heart. 

May  we  learn  to  keep  that  first  and  greatest  commandment  of 
God,  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  might 
and  mind  and  strength."  The  Lord  says  to  us,  "Son,  give  me  thine 
heart."  That  rich  young  man  mentioned  in  the  Scriptures  could  not 
do  it.  He  was  an  acceptable,  good  worshiper,  very  good.  He  was  an 
acceptable  man  and  a  very  good  citizen.  When  he  asked  the  Savior, 
"Good  Master,  what  shall  I  do  to  inherit  eternal  life?"  the  answer  was, 
"Keep  the  commandments."  Well,  but  which  commandments?  The 
Savior  repeated  a  number  of  the  Ten  Commandments  to  him,  and 
that  young  man,  a  good  citizen,  clean,  virtuous,  good  man,  could 
say,  "All  these  I  have  kept  from  my  youth  up."  Now  you  would 
say  that  was  a  first-class  young  man.  He  was  truly  an  acceptable  citi- 
zen. Nobody  could  ask  any  more.  But  was  he  willing  to  sacrifice 
and  give  his  heart  to  God?  No.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  he  had  not  kept 
the  first  great  commandment  which  I  have  repeated  to  you,  but  the 
Savior  could  look  right  through  him,  and  to  put  him  to  the  test  told 
him  to  sell  all  that  he  had  and  give  it  to  the  poor  and  then  "come 
follow  me."  The  sacrifice  was  too  great  for  the  young  man;  he 
could  not  give  his  heart  to  God  and  could  not  make  the  sacrifice. 

THE  TREE  OF  "MORMONISM"  HAS  BORNE  GOOD  FRUIT,  NOT  BAD. 

You  have  made  sacrifices,  our  parents  have  made  sacrifices  for 
these  truths.  We  have  lived  in  poverty — I  myself  in  the  direst  pov- 
erty here  in  the  early  days  in  northern  Utah.  As  a  young  lad  I  lived 
in  a  dugout  with  a  quilt  for  a  door,  not  even  a  window,  not  even  a 
board  floor,  just  dirt  for  a  floor;  lived  without  sufficient  nourishing 
food;  sometimes  I  did  not  have  enough  to  eat,  but  the  spirit  that  was 
in  my  father  and  in  my  mother  was  to  stay  by  this  truth,  to  be  loyal 
to  this  people  and  to  this  Church.  They  could  say:  "Whither  they  go 
I  will  go ;  where  they  stay  I  will  stay,  their  people  shall  be  my  people 
and  their  God  my  God."  That  was  the  sacrifice  they  were  willing 
to  make,  and  they  did  make  it.  Shall  I  now,  shall  our  people  after  us, 
now  when  they  have  made  these  great  sacrifices,  not  give  our  hearts 
to  God?  If  we  are  asked  to  go  on  a  mission  shall  we  not  go?  If  it 
is  to  be  a  teacher  on  the  block  or  to  teach  in  the  Sunday  School  or 
any  work  however  simple,  shall  we  not  answer  with  our  whole  heart, 
"Tell  me  what  you  wish  me  to  do ;  show  me  my  work  and  I  will  try 
to  do  it."  For  the  work  is  good,  the  work  is  true,  the  work  has  pro- 
duced results  that  no  other  institution  or  organization  in  all  the  world 
can  produce.  This  spirit  has  taught  us  honor,  virtue,  integrity,  and 
loyalty  to  country  and  all  that  is  good  and  that  makes  for  righteous- 
ness This  spirit  of  sacrifice  has  been  planted  in  our  hearts  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  By  that  we  live,  by  that  we  magnify  this 
work  by  that  power  we  stand  by  these  brethren  and  uphold  the  Priest- 
hood of  the  Son  of  God.   As  to  the  principles  of  virtue  and  honor,  no 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


church  in  all  the  world  sets  such  a  high  standard  for  its  adherents, 
for  there  is  no  double  standard  of  morality  taught  in  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  The  man  indeed  is  more 
the  criminal  than  the  woman.  That  is  what  is  taught,  that  is  what  we 
try  to  practice.  Now  is  that  bad  or  is  it  good  ?  If  it  is  bad,  then  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  may  have  been  a  deceiver.  If  it  is  all  good,  and 
we  know  it  is  good,  all  of  it  good  and  righteous;  then  it  must  follow 
as  the  night  the  day  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  did  see  the  visions 
one  hundred  years  ago.  These  are  the  fruits  of  "Mormonism."  The 
young  man,  Joseph  Smith,  was  not  a  falsifier.  This  tree  which  was 
planted  one  hundred  years  ago  has  borne  good  fruit  and  not  evil.  Then 
there  can  be  no  mistake ;  his  testimony  must  be  true,  it  cannot  be 
gainsaid.   As  I  said,  the  logic  of  the  case  is  irrefutable.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang:  "Now  let  us  rejoice,"  and  the 
conference  adjourned  until  Tuesday  morning  at  10  a.  m. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  W.  Hart  of  the  Rigby  stake 
of  Zion. 


THIRD  DAY 

Conference  continued  in  the  tabernacle,  Tuesday  morning,  April  ■ 
6.    President  Heber  J.  Grant  called  the  meeting  to  order  at  10  o'clock. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  ye  mountains  high,"  by 
President  Charles  W.  Pemose,  the  hymn  being  read  by  President 
Grant  before  being  sung.    (See  L.  D.  S.  Hymn  Book,  p.  376.) 

Elder  Mark  Austin,  President  of  the  Fremont  stake  of  Zion,  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 

Choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil 
nor  labor  fear." 

ELDER  GEO.  F.  RICHARDS 

Ninety  years  ago  today  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  was  organized  in  Fayette,  Seneca  county,  New  York,  with  six 
members,  and  today  we  celebrate  in  conference  the  anniversary  of  that 
glorious  event. 

OUR  ANNIVERSARY  CELEBRATION  IMPRESSIVE  AND  GLORIOUS. 

One  hundred  years  ago,  possibly  today,  that  other  great  event 
transpired  when  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  con- 
descended to  appear  unto  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  not  yet  fifteen  years 
of  age,  whom  the  Lord  had  raised  up  to  represent  him  in  the  usher- 
ing in  of  the  gospel  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times.  In  our  con- 
ference we  have  been  celebrating  also  this  glorious  event,  and  taking, 
in  connection  with  our  conference  sessions,  the  presentation  last  even- 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS. 


133 


ing,  by  Brother  Evan  Stephens  and  the  choir,  of  that  beautiful  cantata, 
"The  Vision,"  with  the  words  so  appropriate,  the  story  so  beautifully 
told  and  set  to  music  and  sung  with  such  inspiration,  I  feel  that  the 
celebration  has  been  most  fitting,  impressive,  and  glorious. 

I  was  pleased  to  hear  expressions  from  some  distinguished  visitors 
we  had  with  us  yesterday  that  they  were  profoundly  impressed  by 
our  services.  I  feel  sure,  that  all  those  who  have  attended  this  con- 
ference, being  honest  in  their  hearts,  and  desiring  the  uplift  of  human- 
ity, have  been  similarly  impressed,  and  I  have  felt,  during -this  confer- 
ence, as  no  doubt  you  have  also,  that  it  only  requires  time  for  this, 
our  religion,  to  make  its  way.  "Mormonism"  is  in  the  ascendency.  I 
rejoice  with  all  my  heart  to  be  identified  with  this  work  which  I  know 
is  true.  I  know  that  there  is  in  it  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation 
in  this  life  and  in  the  life  to  come.  And  though  we  have  been  in  a 
minority,  and  are  still,  so  far  as  members  are  concerned,  the  time 
will  come  when  the  truths  which  we  represent,  which  we  are  trying 
to  live,  and  which  we  have  preached  to  the  world  for  nearly  a  hun- 
dred years,  will  triumph  and  prevail  over  error. 

SIGNIFICANCE  OF  JOSEPH^  GREAT  VISION. 

The  importance  of  the  Great  Vision  referred  to,  justifies,  I 
think,  directing  my  remarks  particularly  thereto,  notwithstanding 
nearly  all  of  the  speakers  in  the  conference  have  spoken  upon  that  sub- 
ject. I  would  call  attention  by  reading  again  a  verse  from  the  sayings 
of  Joseph  himself,  telling  his  own  story,  so  that  we  may  be  refreshed 
in  our  minds.  In  regard  to  what  the  Son  told  Joseph,  he  says :  "I  was 
answered  that  I  must  join  none  of  them,  for  they  were  all  wrong;  and 
the  personage  who  addressed  me  said  that  all  their  creeds  were  an 
abomination  in  his  sight ;  that  those  professors  were  all  corrupt ;  that 
'they  draw  near  to  me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are  far  from 
me ;  they  teach  for  doctrines  the  commandments  of  men,  having  a 
form  of  godliness,  but  they  deny  the  power  thereof.'  " 

I  know  not,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  how  offensive  this  state- 
ment is  to  the  sectarian  world,  but  we  accept  it  as  the  words  of  God 
and  not  of  men,  and  we  think  that  they  are  defensible.  For  instance, 
the  saying  that  Joseph  was  to  join  with  none  of  them,  for  they  were 
all  wrong,  that  means  to  us  that  there  had  been  a  departure  from  the 
truth,  and  from  the  Church  that  was  instituted'  in  the  days  of  the 
Savior.  Now  then,  let  us  reason  upon  this  for  a  moment.  I  might 
call  your  attention,  in  connection  with  this  matter,  to  a  saying  of  the 
Lord  through  his  servant  Isaiah,  in  regard  to  his  knowledge  of  things 
which  are  to  be,  recorded  in  the  46th  chapter  of  Isaiah:  "I  am  God, 
and  there  is  none  like  me,  declaring  the  end  from  the  beginning,  and 
from  ancient  times  all  things  that  are  not.  yet  done."  The  Prophet 
Amos  says :  "Surely  the  Lord  God  doeth  nothing  but  he  revealeth  his 
secrets  to  his  servants,  the  prophets."  Whether  or  not  we  might 
call  the  apostasy  a  secret,  it  certainly  was  known  to  the  Lord  in  ad- 
vance and  we  might  reason  thus :  If  there  was  to  be  a  universal 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


apostasy  from  the  Church,  then  the  Lord  would  reveal  that  important 
fact  to  his  servants,  the  prophets. 

Joseph  Smith,  a  boy  fourteen  years  of  age,  however,  had  not 
studied  this  proposition  out  in  this  way,  to  reach  the  deductions  that 
we  have  reached,  but  by  a  study  of  the  scriptures,  we  do  find  that  the 
Lord,  through  his  prophets,  did  predict  the  apostate  conditions  which 
were  to  be.  And  reasoning  a  little  further  we  conclude  that  if  there 
had  been  a  universal  apostasy  such  a  thing  would  be  of  record.  So 
we  consult  the  histories  by  men  who  have  written  upon  ecclesiastical 
subjects,  and  we  find  the  apostasy  given  in  minute  detail,  step  by 
step,  until  it  had  become  universal.  "The  earth  had  become  defiled 
under  the  inhabitants  thereof,"  for  they  had  transgressed  the  laws, 
changed  the  ordinances,  and  broken  the  everlasting  covenant.  Men 
would  wander  from  sea  to  sea,  and  from  the  north  even  unto  the  south, 
seeking  the  words  of  the  Lord  and  could  not  find  them.  So  far, 
therefore,  as  this  declaration  is  concerned,  there  is  sufficient  evidence 
before  us  to  prove  that  the  statement  is  true  that-  they  were  all  wrong. 

.  Now  in  regard  to  that  other  statement :  All  their  creeds  were  an 
■  abomination  in  his  sight ;  that  seems  a  serious  arraignment  of  churches, 
and  their  creeds.  Let  us  consider  that  a  moment.  What  consti- 
tutes or  may  constitute  an  abomination  in  the  sight  of  God?  It  does 
seem  to  me  that  the  belief  in  and  advocacy  of  that  which  is  not  true 
and  the  making  of  it  a  part  of  religious  creeds  must  be  abominable 
in  the  sight  of  him  who  is  the  God  of  truth.  If  the  Savior  had  not 
told  Joseph  this  great  fact,  the  evidence  of  it  was  before  him,  and  he 
would  no  doubt  have  discovered  it  in  later  years  as  his  judgment  de- 
veloped,  for  he  knew  that  in  the  creeds  everywhere  it  was  taught  that 
God  is  a  personage  having  no  body,  no  parts,  nor  passions.  Joseph  now 
saw  before  him  the  Father,  not  such  as  was  represented  by  the  creeds, 
but  an  immortal,  glorified  being,  and  with  him  his  Son.  Of  this  there 
could  be  no  mistake,  for  the  one,  introducing  the  other  to  Joseph, 
said :  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  him."  There  Joseph  saw  the 
Father  and  the  Son,  the  Son  indeed  in  the  very  likeness  and  image  of 
his  father. 

An  examination  of  the  creeds  will  reveal  other  principles  there 
set  forth  which  are  man-made  and  are  in  conflict  with  the  truth  of 
heaven  as  it  has  been  revealed  and  is  recorded  in  the  scriptures  of 
the  Holy  Bible,  as  well  as  in  the  other  standard  works  of  this  Church. 
It  was  a  necessary  thing  that  Joseph,  whom  the  Lord  had  raised  up 
to  be  his  mouthpiece  for  the  ushering  in  of  this  great  gospel  dispensa- 
tion, preparing  the  way  for  the  great  and  glorious  coming  of  our  Lord, 
should  have  a  perfect  knowledge  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son,  that  he 
might  be  able  to  stand  and  to  be  secure  in  his  position  and  to  accom- 
plish his  work  which  the  Lord  had  for  him  to  do,  and  a  wonderful 
work  it  has  been. 

When  our  first  parents  were  shut  out  from  the  Garden  of  Eden, 
they  were  told  to  worship  the  Lord  their  God  all  the  days  of  their 
lives,  and  as  they  prayed,  we  are  told  that  the  voice  of  the  Lord  came 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS. 


135 


from  toward  the  Garden  of  Eden,  for  they  were  shut  out  from  his 
presence,  and  the  Apostle  Paul  declares  to  the  Corinthians  that  we 
are  required  to  live  by  faith  and  not  by  sight,  but,  notwithstanding 
this  fact,  the  Lord  has  left  abundant  evidences  of  his  existence,  of  his 
power,  and  of  his  love.  We  have  the  argument  of  the  Apostle  Paul 
upon  this  point,  which  I  consider  is  very  forceful.  He  says :  "For  the 
invisible  things  of  him  from  the  creation  of  the  world  are  clearly  seen, 
being  understood  by  the  things  that  are  made,  even  his  eternal  power 
and  Godhead,  so  that  they  are  without  excuse." 

THE  ACCOMPLISHMENTS  OP  JOSEPH  AN  EVIDENCE  OF  THE  DIVINITY 

OF  HIS  CALLING. 

As  the  things  which  God  has  done  are  evidences  of  his  existence, 
power,  and  love,  so  the  things  that  were  accomplished  by  Joseph  Smith 
are  an  evidence  of  the  divinity  of  his  calling  and  that  he  was  sup- 
ported and  sustained  by  his  Father  in  heaven.  Not  only  did  he  have 
a  visitation  from  the  Father  and  the  Son,  but  the  Father  also  spoke 
to  him  by  the  mouth  of  the  angel  Moroni,  who  delivered  to  Joseph  the 
plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated,  which  book 
contains  a  fulness  of  the  gospel  as  delivered  by  Christ,  our  Savior 
himself  to  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  this  American  continent,  and 
this  in  fulfilment  of  the  predictions  that  there  should  be  a  restoration 
of  the  gospel  by  an  angel,  which  thing  could  not  have  been,  had  there 
not  first  been  a  falling  away. 

The  organizing  of  the  Church,  ninety  years  ago  today,  was  the 
beginning  of  the  establishment  of  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God 
that  was  to  be  set  up,  according  to  the  predictions  of  the  prophets, 
never  to  be  thrown  down  nor  given  to  another  people.  It  is  to  fill 
the  whole  world.  The  perfection  and  efficiency  of  the  Church  or- 
ganization prove  that  Joseph  was  divinely  inspired.  By  the  mouth  of 
John  the  Baptist  the  keys  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  were  conferred 
upon  Joseph  and  Oliver  which  enabled  them  to  baptize,  a  power  and 
authority  that  was  not  known  and  that  did  not  exist  in  the  sectarian 
churches. 

The  keys  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  also  were  conferred  by 
Peter,  James  and  John,  enabling  the  Prophet,  with  those  who  should 
assist  him,  to  accomplish  all  the  work  pertaining  to  this  great  latter- 
day  dispensation. 

Moses  committed  unto  him  the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  scattered 
Israel  from  the  four  parts  of  the  earth,  and  the  leading  of  the  ten 
tribes  from  the  land  of  the  north.  Zion  is  being  gathered  in  fulfilment 
of  the  predictions  of  the  prophets  under  this  spirit  of  gathering  that 
came  through  Moses. 

Elias  conferred  the  keys  of  the  Abrahamic  dispensation  in  which 
he  lived,  and  Elijah  the  keys  of  the  turning  of  the  hearts  of  the  fath- 
ers to  the  children  and  the  children  to  the  fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth 
be  smitten  with  a  curse.  That  spirit,  too,  is  abroad  in  the  world. 
Temples  are  built,  and  the  work  is  being  accomplished  for  the 
dead  as  well  as  for  the  living,  and  all  these  things,  with  the  thou- 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sands  of  other  great  accomplishments  under  the  direction  and  organiza- 
tion of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  prove  him  to  be  a  true  prophet  of  God. 

In  view  of  the  importance  of  this,  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness 
of  times,  it  is  only  reasonable  to  believe  that  our  Father  would  reserve 
one  of  the  greatest  of  those  noble  spirits  who  were  faithful  in  their 
previous  state  of  existence,  to  come  forth  and  lead  the  people  of  this 
dispensation  as  his  mouthpiece  and  prophet.  This  we  believe  was 
done,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  one  of  the  greatest  prophets  that 
ever  lived,  and  that  his  life's  work  was  one  of  the  greatest  that  ever 
a  prophet  accomplished. 

There  is  another  evidence  which  is  more  convincing  to  me,  even 
than  all  these,  and  that  is  the  witness  of  the  Spirit  of  God  that  comes 
through  the  Holy  Ghost,  bearing  testimony  to  my  soul.  I  am  con- 
vinced in  every  fiber  of  my  being  that  Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  a 
divinely  inspired  prophet  of  God,  and  that  his  story  of  the  vision  is 
true,  and  I  bear  this  testimony  to  you  today  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

A  duet,  "Hail  to  the  brightness  of  Zion's  glad  morning,"  was 
sung  by  J.  R.  Boshard  and  Florence  Meldrum. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

The  opening  remarks  of  the  President  at  this  conference  were 
very  inspiring  and  gave  promise  of  a  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  upon  the  people.  It  has  been  so — a  time  of  peace,  a 
time  of  instruction,  of  thanksgiving  and  praise  and  of  pure  joy. 

ETERNAL  AND  TEMPORAL  VALUES. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  this  morning,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  upon  the  subject  of  investments,  and  I  will  take  for  my  text  the 
saying  of  a  noted  writer  to  this  effect:  "Always  distinguish  between 
what  is  of  eternal  value,  and  of  what  is  a  mere  temporal  ease."  This 
is  a  significant  remark.  It  is  worthy  of  the  profoundest  considera- 
tion. There  are  many  things  with  which  we  come  in  contact,  many 
things  of  importance,  but  there  are  some  things  that  are  more  import- 
ant than  others. 

This  is  the  land  of  Zion  in  which  we  dwell.  It  is  a  blessed  land, 
it  is  a  fruitful  land.  The  soil  readily  responds  to  the  industry  of 
the  farmer,  and  by  his  toil  means  come  into  his  possession.  The  wages 
of  the  laboring  man  today  are  very  good.  He  gets  a  splendid  reward 
for  his  efforts  and  thereby  means  come  into  his  hands.  It  is  true, 
that  we  are  confronted  with  high  cost  of  living,  but  notwithstanding 
this,  with  many  of  our  people,  perhaps  hundreds  and  hundreds  of 
them,  there  is  a  surplus,  and,  I  believe,  as  remarked  by  Brother 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  that  with  this  surplus  there  comes  the  responsi- 
bility of  trusteeship.      The  means  that  come  into  our  hands  are  a 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


137 


direct  blessing  from  the  Lord  and  he  expects  us  to  expend  them  wisely 
and  well  and  to  be  very  careful  in  our  management  of  affairs.  I 
think  that  the  Lord  particularly  expects  us  as  a  people  to  avoid  debt. 
A  man  who  is  weighed  down  by  a  burden  of  debt  might  just  as  well  be 
in  prison,  because  it  is  to  him  a  constant  worry  and  anxiety. 

One  of  the  first  considerations  that  devolves  upon  us  is  to  get 
out  of  debt.  The  Latter-day  Saints  should  heed  this  counsel,  for  it  is 
counsel  that  comes  to  us  from  time  to  time  from  the  leaders  of  the 
Church. 

The  mercantile  world,  the  oil  business,  the  mining  fields,  offer 
opportunity  for  investment  of  our  surplus ;  but,  brethren  and  sisters, 
the  very  greatest  wisdom  and  judgment  should  be  exercised  in  the 
matter  of  investment.  And  when  it  comes  to  mining  stocks  it  needs 
only  to  be  said  that  this  is  a  very  risky  business,  and  so  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  should  be  wise  and  prudent  and  not  rush  hastily  into 
enterprises  that  spring  up  on  every  side.  There  is  danger  in  it.  Some- 
times offerings  come  to  us  from  a  distance,  some  great  undertaking 
that  reads  well  on  paper,  the  prospectus  of  which  is  very  fine.  It 
is  inspiring,  it  is  enticing.  Wonderful  things,  it  is  announced,  will  be 
accomplished  if  we  will  only  put  our  money  into  it,  and  yet  possibly 
we  do  not  know  a  mortal  thing  about  the  people  who  are  connected 
with  the  enterprise.  Who  is  the  president?  Oh,  well,  we  don't 
know.  We  have  never  seen  him.  Who  are  the  directors  in  the  com- 
pany? Oh,  well,  we  don't  know,  but  just  look  at  the  prospectus,  see 
what  it  says.  Isn't  that  sufficient?  No,  I  say  it  is  not.  It  is  not 
sufficient  at  all.  People  ought  not  to  go  into  those  things  without 
knowing  something  of  the  character  of  the  people  who  are  behind  them. 
Now  this  is  true  also  of  enterprises  abroad  in  the  world  that  come  to 
us.  It  is  true,  likewise,  of  enterprises  at  home,  even  right  here  in  Zion. 
When  investments  are  offered  they  should  be  subjected  to  the  great- 
est scrutiny  and  careful  investigation.  We  want  to  know,  should  know 
who  is  behind  them.  What  is  the  character  of  the  man  who  stands 
at  the  head?  What  is  the  character  of  the  men  who  make  up  the 
board  of  directors,  and  who  administer  the  affairs  of  the  company? 
Are  they  safe  men,  are  they  strong  men,  reliable  people  of  the  com- 
munity? Well,  if  they  are,  then  the  risk  is  not  so  great,  of  course, 
and  so,  I  think  that  it  would  be  much  safer  for  the  Latter-day  Saints 
generally  to  invest  their  means  at  home  in  enterprises  that  have 
originated  among  us,  in  enterprises  that  have  been  and  are  suc- 
cessful in  which  the  stock  is  paying  good  returns.  It  is  the  results 
that  we  want.    And  that  reminds  me  of  a  story. 

One  man  said  to  another :  "What  is  Professor  Jones  doing  now  ?" 

"Oh,  well,  he  is  trying  to  decipher  a  Babylonian  tablet." 

"Are  there  any  results?" 

"Yes,  his  wife  is  down  with  nervous  prostration,  and  he  has  sent 
his  children  to  relatives." 

Very  definite  results.  And  so,  when  we  come  to  invest  our  means, 
we  want  results,  we  want  good  results.  A  successful  man  from  a 
worldly  standpoint  is  a  man  who  makes' good  investments.    An  un- 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


successful  man  is  a  man  who  makes  unsuccessful  investments  and 
the  results  are  poor  and  bring  trouble  and  anxiety  to  him.  Now, 
these  things  are  very  important.  We  have  to  deal  with  them.  We  must 
accumulate  means  for  we  have  certain  obligations  that  rest  upon  us, 
the  support  of  our  families,  the  education  of  our  children,  the  main- 
tainence  of  our  homes.  The  man  who  will  not  provide  for  his  family, 
the  Apostle  said,  is  worse  than  an  infidel,  and  so  these  obligations  de- 
volve upon  us. 

AN   INVESTMENT   OF   ETERNAL  VALUE. 

But  the  thing  that  I  have  been  emphasizing  might  be  regarded 
as  something  pertaining  to  a  mere  temporal  ease.  Let  us  pause  for 
a  moment,  let  us  reflect  upon  some  investments  that  have  an  eternal 
value.  What  think  you  of  tithing  as  an  investment?  "Why,  Brother 
Clawson,"  says  someone  in  surprise,  "you  don't  pretend  to  say  that 
the  paying  of  tithing  into  the  Church  is  an  investment.  When  a 
man  puts  his  money  into  the  hands  of  the  Lord's  bishop,  or  into  the 
bishop's  storehouse,  and  he  doesn't  get  any  apparent  dividend  from 
it,  why,  you  don't  call  that  an  investment?" 

Yes,  that  is  an  investment  of  an  eternal  nature. 

"Oh,  I  think  you  are  mistaken,  Brother  Clawson,  about  that. 
You  know  tithing  pertains  to  temporal  things  and  is  a  temporal  law 
and  there  is  nothing  eternal  connected  with  it." 

Oh,  yes,  I  think  there  is  a  spiritual  value  connected  with  tithing 
and  it  is  made  very  apparent,  in  the  revelation  upon  that  subject. 
The  question  arises,  what  is  tithing  for?  We  speak  of  it,  we  em- 
phasize it  in  our  conferences,  we  urge  the  people  to  remember  the 
law  and  to  honor  it.  Now  what  is  it  for?  We  are  not  left  in  the 
dark  regarding  this  matter.  The  Lord  has  made  it  clear.  He  gave 
the  law.  No  man  is  responsible  for  it.  The  prophet  of  the  Church, 
the  president,  is  not  responsible  for  this  word  from  the  Lord.  "Tith- 
ing is  for  the  building  of  mine  house,"  says  the  Lord,  "and  for  the 
laying  of  the  foundation  of  Zion  and  for  the  priesthood  and  for  the 
debts  of  the  presidency  of  my  Church."  That  is  what  it  is  for,  and  that 
has  an  eternal  significance  and  fixed  value,  and  I  look  upon  it  as  a 
splendid  investment.  Is  it  not  a  privilege,  is  it  not  an  opportunity 
to  assist  in  the  laying  of  the  foundation  of  Zion?  That  is  what  we 
have  been  doing  for  ninety  years.  Nearly  a  hundred  years  we  have 
been  laying  the  foundation  of  Zion.  Is  it  laid  yet,  is  it  fully  laid, 
thoroughly  laid  ?  I  would  not  say  it.  I  do  not  know,  I  think  it  will  re- 
quire all  of  a  hundred  years  and  more  to  lay  the  foundation,  be- 
cause upon  it  we  are  building  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God, 
which  is  never  to  be  thrown  down,  and  the  work  will  never 
be  given  to  other  people.  That  is  the  kind  of  a  foundation  we  must 
lay.  You  have  had  a  hand  in  it,  I  have  had  part  in  it ;  that  is,  if  we 
have  observed  this  law  and  other  duties  and  obligations.  Oh,  it  is  a 
blessed  thing.    I  think  it  will  pay  a  good  dividend. 

"And  for  the  building  of  mine  house" — here  on  this  block  is  one 
house  of  the  Lord  and  other  temples  are  being  erected  in  which  great 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


spiritual  blessings  will  come  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  largely  through 
the  paying  of  their  tithing  and  obligations. 

Now,  I  will  tell  you,  we  could  not  build  a  house  of  God  without 
means  and  yet,  when  it  is  accomplished,  the  building  itself  is  of  least 
importance,  all  the  means  that  went  into  it  is  of  the  least  importance. 
It  is  the  ordinances  of  the  house  that  are  of  eternal  value.  And  then 
again  the  law  of  tithing  speaks  of  the  Priesthood.  There  is  an  invest- 
ment for  you  of  real  worth,  of  most  vital  significance,  the  authority 
and  power  of  the  Priesthood.  Could  any  man  make  a  better  invest- 
ment than  to  secure  the  Priesthood?  "Yes,  but  Brother  Clawson,  can 
he  buy  this  blessing?"  No,  no,  he  can  not.  "Well,  how  can  he  invest 
if  he  has  no  money  to  put  into  it  ?"  You  can't  get  in  that  way.  It  is 
an  investment  that  comes  in  a  different  form  entirely.  Well,  what  is 
required?  Only  faithfulness,  a  faithful  life,  devotion  to  the  cause  of 
God,  obedience  to  his  word,  honoring  his  servants,  and  doing  your 
duty,  and  that  will  entitle  you  to  have  a  share  in  this  great  investment 
that  is  open  to  all  the  men  of  the  Church  from  the  least  to  the  great- 
est. 

"And  the  debts  of  the  Presidency  of  my  Church."  I  do  not  take 
that  to  mean  that  the  tithing  is  to  be  used  for  the  personal  obligations 
and  debts  of  the  leading  men  of  the  Church  or  the  Presidency.  You 
notice  how  this  reads :  "Of  the  debts  of  the  Presidency  of  my  Church." 
It  means  the  obligations  entered  into  for  the  Church  by  the  Presidency. 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM  AS  AN  ETERNAL  INVESTMENT. 

What  think  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  as 
an  investment  ?  "Surely  it  is  not  an  investment,  is  it  ?"  Oh,  yes ;  one 
of  the  brethren  at  this  conference  has  emphasized  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
by  saying  that  it  might  be  regarded  as  the  law  of  health,  the  great 
law  of  health.  Well,  is  not  that  an  investment  worthy  of  our  con- 
sideration? If  we  can  go  into  anything,  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
will  bring  good  health,  that  is  the  very  best  kind  of  a  dividend  there 
is.  And  what  could  we  do?  I  submit  to  you,  what  could  this  people 
do,  how  much  could  they  accomplish  of  this  mighty  work  without 
good  health?  Well,  now,  as  a  people  we  are  healthy.  There  may  be 
exceptions  to  the  rule,  but  we  are  entitled  to  the  special  blessings  of 
the  Lord  in  this  respect  if  we  observe  his  great  law.  "Yes,"  but  some- 
one says,  "you  are  emphasizing,  my  brother,  investments  of  an  eternal 
character.  The  Word  of  Wisdom,  remember,  is  a  temporal  law  and 
does  not  have  anything  particularly  to  do  with  eternal  things."  Well, 
I  think,  my  brother,  that  you  are  slightly  mistaken  in  that  view.  I 
grant  you  that  the  Word  of  Wisdom  has  a  temporal  side  to  it.  It 
pertains  largely  to  temporal  things,  to  our  physical  health,  the  condi- 
tion of  our  bodies  and  so  on.  But  there  is  also  a  spiritual  side  to  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  which  possibly  is  more  important  than  the  temporal, 
for  the  Lord  said  that  all  Saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these 
sayings  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  walking  in  obedience  to  the  com- 
mandments, "shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and  marrow  to  their 
bones."    There  is  the  temporal  blessing  and  it  is  important  and  vital. 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


"And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even 
hidden  treasures."  And  there  is  the  spiritual  side  to  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom. And  these  great  treasures  of  knowledge  will  help  us  in  this 
world  and  will  follow  us  into  the  world  to  come  and  are  of  an  eternal 
nature.  We  also  have  the  promise  that  the  destroying  angel  shall 
pass  us  by  and  not  slay  us.  That  does  not  mean,  that  no  one  among 
the  Saints  shall  die  and  pass  away.  We  are  under  the  great  edict  of 
life,  that  is,  sooner  or  later,  we  must  lay  down  our  bodies  and  pass  into 
the  spirit  world,  and  the  change  will  come  to  all  of  us ;  but  the  prom- 
ise is  made,  nevertheless,  and  the  Lord  will  have  respect  for  his  peo- 
ple. He  will  bless  them  and  he  will  preserve  them  and  carry  them 
along  until  they  shall  have  fulfilled  the  measure  of  their  creation  and 
accomplished  their  work,  if  they  will  observe  to  keep  and  do  these 
sayings  and  render  obedience  to  his  law. 

MARRIAGE  AN   ETERNAL  INVESTMENT. 

What  think  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  of  marriage  as  an  invest- 
ment? One  of  the  most  important  steps  that  a  man  or  woman  can 
take  in  the  world.  There  are  two  kinds  of  marriage.  One  is  rather 
a  poor  investment,  that  is,  it  is  not  as  good  as  the  other.  There  is 
marriage  for  time ;  there  is  marriage  for  time  and  all  eternity.  Here 
is  the  choice  of  two  investments  to  every  young  man  and  to  every 
young  woman  in  the  Church.  Which  will  you  have?  That  which  is 
of  eternal  value  or  the  thing  that  is  of  mere  temporal  ease?  So  I 
repeat,  always  distinguish  between  what  is  of  eternal  value  and  what 
is  of  a  mere  temporal  ease." 

The  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  make  the  proper  choice  and  to 
do  the  right  thing ;  always  to  give  ear  to  the  voice  of  counsel,  and  walk 
in  the  way  of  life,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 
The  strong  testimonies  given  by  the  brethren  during  this  con- 
ference, of  the  great  vision,  and  developments  connected  therewith, 
and  the  unexpressed  testimonies  represented  by  those  in  attendance 
here, — are  partly  due  to  the  gracious  wisdom  and  foresight  of  our 
heavenly  Father  in  carefully  providing  direct  evidences  sufficient  to 
satisfy  reasonable  minds  of  the  truths  of  these  important  events.  There 
is  no  exact  standard  of  the  amount  of  evidence  which  should  be  suf- 
ficient to  convince  each  reasonable  mind. 

HOW  EVIDENCE  IS  MEASURED. 

You  cannot  measure  evidence  or  testimony  by  the  ounce  or  by 
the  pound,  nor  even  by  the  number  of  witnesses,  although  the  number 
may  be  of  importance.  I  am  persuaded  that  the  Lord  does  not  place 
a  premium  upon  undue  credulity.  While  he  leaves  a  wise  margin  for 
faith,  hope  and  confiding  belief,  he  also  provides  proper  evidence. 
We  are  told  in  the  scriptures  that,  "The  simple  believeth  every  word, 
but  the  prudent  man  looketh  well  to  his  going."    This  is  a  good  pro- 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART. 


141 


verb  for  the  brethren  to  bear  in  mind  when  some  oily-tongued  agent 
comes  to  them  with  a  beautifully  lithographed  certificate  of  stock  in 
some  "wild-cat"  corporation,  concerning  which  Brother  Clawson  has 
just  told  us.  If  they  are  in  the  frame  of  mind  to  believe  every  word 
and  are  not  like  the  prudent  man  who  "looketh  well  to  his  going," 
they  will  have  time  afterwards  to  repent  of  their  over-confidence. 

In  the  coming  forth  of  "Mormonism,"  the  Lord  provided  ample 
testimony, — a  goodly  number  of  witnesses.  As  I  said  before,  the 
number  does  not  count  for  everything,  because  there  is  a  more  delicate 
test  for  reaching  the  truth  than  in  the  mere  weight  of  numbers,  al- 
though some  importance  is  properly  placed  upon  the  number  of  wit- 
nesses. It  was  foreordained  thtit  there  should  be  three  special  wit- 
nesses, besides  Joseph,  to  the  coming  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  In  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States,  two  witnesses  are  necessary  to  con- 
vict for  treason,  and  there  must  be  two  witnesses  to  the  same  overt 
act.  Under  the  law  of  Moses,  two  or  three  witnesses  were  required 
to  establish  guilt  punishable  by  death.  (17  Deut.  6.)  This  rule  was 
later  perverted  by  the  Jews,  as  the  Talmud  informs  us  that  a  witness 
though  truthful  might  be  punished  if  he  were  unfortunate  enough  not 
to  have  another  witness  to  corroborate  his  story. 

I  think  the  American  frame  of  mind  is  somewhat  illustrated  in 
an  event  which  occurred  some  years  ago,  wherein  one  of  the  large 
dailies  of  New  York  represented  that  it  had  performed  a  certain 
experiment  in  order  to  prove  the  incompetency  of  the  editors  of  the 
magazines  of  the  day,  and  asserted  that  the  paper  had  sent  out  copies 
of  good  stories  from  Kipling,  without  disclosing  the  authorship,  and 
that  those  stories  had  been  rejected  by  magazines  of  supposed  good 
judgment  and  literary  skill.  The  statement  went  unchallenged  for 
some  time,  until  Mr.  Edward  Bok,  editor  of  the  Ladies'  Home  Journal, 
came  forward  and  said :  "We  would  like  proof  of  that ;  we  would  like 
to  be  shown." 

In  connection  with  the  coming  forth  of  "Mormonism,"  for  a 
long  while  the  burden  rested  upon  the  testimony  of  Joseph  alone,  and 
it  was  a  tremendous' weight  that  he  carried,  and  how  relieved  he  felt 
when  there  were  others  who  were  to  share  the  responsibility  with  him ! 
Yet  I  take  it  that  his  uncorroborated  statements,  so  far  as  having 
other  witnesses  to  support  him,  would  carry  conviction  to  the  earnest 
seeker  of  truth.  What  are  jurors  instructed  to  do  when  they  are 
considering  the  weight  to  be  attached  to  testimony  which  will  result, 
perhaps,  in  the  conviction  for  a  high  crime  or  misdemeanor?  They 
are  charged  that  they  may  consider  the  demeanor  of  the  witness,  his 
means  of  information,  the  opportunities  which  he  has  had  for  knowing 
the  truth  of  which  he  testifies ;  the  interest,  if  any,  which  he  has  in  the 
case,  his  intelligence,  or  lack  of  intelligence;  and  from  all  the  cir- 
cumstances appearing  upon  the  trial,  determine  what  credence  should 
be  given  to  his  testimony,  and  to  give  weight  accordingly;  that  in 
case  of  a  conflict  in  evidence  they  may  believe  one  witness  as  against 
many,  and  that  they  are  to  search  for  the  truth,  believing  that  which 
carries  conviction  to  them. 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


THE  TESTIMONY  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  THE  PROPHET. 

We  have  before  us  the  printed  record.  We  do  not  have  the  ad- 
vantage of  hearing  the  oral  word.  Perhaps  only  a  few  present  ever 
heard  the  oral  testimony  of  those  concerned.  But  we  can  read  the 
printed  word;  and  that  is  the  means  which  the  great  courts  of  our 
land  have,  because  our  supreme  courts  are  courts  of  appellate  jurisdic- 
tion, and  most  of  the  cases  considered  by  them  come  to  them  by  ap- 
peal, and  they  do  not  see  nor  hear  the  witnesses  but  tbey  read  the 
printed  record,  and  determine  from  that,  the  weight  that  should  be 
attached  to  the  testimony.  You  may  read  the  testimony  of  Joseph,  and 
the  testimony  of  Oliver,  and  with  no  other  testimony  supporting  it, 
it  will  carry  conviction  to  your  soul. 

To  illustrate  what  I  mean,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  may  I  read 
a  few  words  from  the  testimony  of  Joseph.  He  is  comparing  his  re- 
sponsibility and  knowledge  with  that  of  Paul  of  old,  and  he  goes  on 
to  say: 

So  it  was  with  me,  I  had  actually  seen  a  light,  and  in  the  midst  of 
that  light  I  saw  two  personages,  and  they  did  in  reality  speak  to  me,  and 
though  I  was  hated  and  persecuted  for  saying  I  had  seen  a  vision,  yet  it 
was  true;  and  while  they  were  persecuting  me,  reviling  me,  and  speaking 
all  manner  of  evil  against  me  falsely  for  so  saying,  I  was  led  to  say  in 
think  to  make  me  deny  what  I  have  actually  seen?  For  I  had  seen  a 
vision,  and  who  am  I  that  I  can  withstand  God,  or  why  does  the  world 
think  to  make  me  deny  what  I  have  actually  seen?  For  I  had  seen  a 
vision;  I  knew  it,  and  I  knew  that  God  knew  it,  and  I  could  not  deny 
it;  neither  dared  I  do  it,  at  least,  I  knew  that  bv  so  doing  I  would  offend 
God,  and  come  under  condemnation.  (Pearl  of  Great  Price.) 

There  is  printed  here  as  a  note  to  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  a  let- 
ter from  Oliver  Cowdery,  that  rings  with  that  same  spirit  of  sincerity. 
It  should  carry  conviction  to  the  heart,  it  seems  to  me,  of  all  who 
read  it  in  sincerity,  and  with  a  desire  to  know  the  truth. 

IMPROBABILITY  OF  SUPERNATURAL  EVENTS. 

Some  will  say :  "What  of  the  improbability  of  these  supernatural 
events  which  were  testified  to  by  Joseph,  and  particularly  by  the 
three  witnesses?"  Well,  the  fact  that  an  occurrence  is  improbable 
does  not  interfere  with  its  being  established.  In  fact,  it  is  proverbial 
that  "the  unexpected  happens."  It  is  one  of  the  established  rules  of 
evidence  that  the  improbable  may  be  established  where  the  testimony 
is  sufficient.  The  term  improbable  simply  means  what  appears  un- 
reasonable to  the  individual  to  whom  the  testimony  is  given,  in  the 
light  of  his  knowledge  and  experience.  As  an  illustration,  a  scriptural 
illustration  of  what  I  mean  by  establishing  the  improbable, — when 
Jacob  was  informed  that  Joseph  was  alive  and  was  a  ruler  in  Egypt, 
we  are  told  in  the  scriptures  that  "Jacob's  heart  fainted,  for  he  be- 
lieved them  not;"  but,  of  course,  sufficient  testimony  was  brought 
to  prove  what  seemed  to  Jacob  at  first  to  be  an  improbability.  So,  if 
some  of  these  matters  seem  to  be  improbable,  it  does  not,  under  the 
rules  of  evidence,  prevent  the  establishment  of  them.    Besides,  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART. 


143 


improbable  is  based  on  man's  experience,  but  the  things  which  are 
impossible  with  man  are  possible  with  God. 

I  think  Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  reached  the  correct  con- 
clusion that  there  is  no  middle  ground  between  accepting  Joseph  as 
a  sincere  prophet  of  the  Lord,  or  a  conscious  deceiver:  for  you  can- 
not conceive  of  Joseph  being  deceived  in  the  experiences  of  which  he 
testifies ;  that  he  could  be  baptized  under  the  direction  of  a  heavenly 
being,  have  other  heavenly  personages  appear  to  him,  laying  their 
hands  upon  his  head  and  conferring  the  holy  Priesthood  upon  him, 
and  he  be  deceived  in  all  that, — deceived  in  a  messenger  appearing  and 
showing  the  records  and  the  precious  relics  contained  in  the  stone 
box  to  which  he  was  directed.  It  is  out  of  the  question  to  believe 
that  he  could  be  deceived,  or  that  the  three  witnesses  or  the  eight 
witnesses  could  be,  in  what  they  testify  to.  I  grant  that  one  man, 
or  perhaps  several,  may  sometimes  be  deceived  in  the  sense  of  sight. 
You  brethren  and  sisters  perhaps  have  seen  the  phenomenon  of  the 
mirage  of  the  desert.  You  have  looked  across  a  body  of  water  and 
seen  horses  and  cows  that  looked  like  poplar  trees,  or  a  train  coming 
at  a  distance,  which  in  the  particular  refraction  of  the  light  appeared 
many  times  as  tall  as  it  really  was.  But  to  suppose  that  these  men 
could  be  deceived  in  what  they  said  would  be  to  assume  the  improb- 
able, I  was  going  to  say  the  impossible,  that  a  large  group  of  men 
would  be  deceived,  not  only  in  the  sense  of  sight,  but  in  the  sense 
of  hearing,  and  in  the  physical  sense  of  touch  as  well;  because  all 
these  senses  were  appealed  to. 

FUTILITY  OF  ACCOUNTING  FOR  "MORMONISM"  ON  THE  GROUND  OF 
WILFUL  IMPOSTURE. 

Then  if  you  take  the  other  alternative  and  try  to  account  for 
"Mormonism"  on  the  ground  of  wilful  imposture,  there  are  many 
difficulties  that  you  encounter.  Did  you  ever  consider  just  what 
would  be  involved  in  looking  at  the  case  from  that  viewpoint?  A 
great  jurist,  says : 

Where  several  persons  conspire  to  commit  perjury,  there  must#  be 
concert,  they  must  first  be  persons  so  depraved  that  they  are  willing  to  join 
in  the  commission  of  high  crime  and  so  lost  to  all  sense  of  shame  as  to 
be  willing  to  confess  their  infamy  one  to  another;  they  must  likewise 
agree  not  only  upon  the  main  body  of  their  story,  but  upon  its  details  and 
upon  the  order  in  which  they  occurred,  and  if,  while  they  are  undergoing 
the  ordeal  of  cross-examination,  defects  in  their  story  are  exposed  they 
will  not  dare  to  change  it,  for  if  they  do,  they  will  run  the  risk  of  being 
contradicted  by  their  associates,  and  if  they  adhere  to  it,  they  know  they 
will  incur  the  hazard  of  detection  together  with  all  of  its  dangerous  con- 
sequences. I.  ;  i  il  jSI-sJ.£J 

And  in  connection  with  the  number  of  witnesses  testifying,  if 
the  Prophet  Joseph  had  been  an  impostor,  he  would  have  appreciated 
the  danger  of  having  more  people  in  league  with  him.  Increasing 
the  number  of  witnesses  would  tend  to  increase  the  probability  of  his 
being  exposed. 


1.44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Another  authority  on  evidence,  the  author  of  a  great  text  book, 
reminds  us  of  this: 

Increasing  the  number  of  false  witnesses  increases  the  probability  of 
detection  in  a  very  high  proportion:  for  it  multiplies  the  number  of  points 
upon  which  their  statements  may  be  compared  with  each  other  and  also 
the  number  of  points  where  their  testimony  comes  in  contact  with  the 
truth,  and  therefore  multiplies  the  danger  of  inconsistency  and  variance  in 
the  same  proportion. 

Again,  the  burden  of  proof  is  on  the  party  who  alleges  fraud. 
It  is  never  presumed,  because  fraud  is  a  crime.  Men  are  presumed  to 
do  right.  One  of  the  strongest  and  most  far  reaching  presumptions 
of  evidence  is  the  presumption  of  innocence, — the  presumption  of  right 
acting.  It  is  easier  for  a  person  to  tell  the  truth  than  to  tell  a  false- 
hood, because  in  telling  the  truth  it  is  an  act  of  memory,  simply 
recalling  the  actual  experience ;  while  falsehood  involves  invention,  skill 
in  invention,  to  make  the  story  appear  plausible. 

Who  could  read  Joseph's  utterances  throughout  his  life,  who  could 
read,  for  instance,  that  little  diary,  yet  unprinted  so  far  as  I  know, 
written  in  his  own  handwriting,  at  the  time  he  took  his  mission 
to  Canada,  disclosing  the  prayerful  nature  of  his  heart  day  by  day,  and 
say  that  such  a  person  could  possibly  be  a  deceiver?  Or  who  could 
imagine  one  offering  the  highest  test  of  fidelity  that  mortal  man  can 
give,  going  chee'rfully  and  knowingly  to  his  death,  as  a  Socrates  or*  as 
a  Christ,  and  so  offering  his  life  for  his  testimony,  sealing  his  testi- 
mony with  his  life's  precious  blood,  and  not  be  sincere?  Every  act, 
every  utterance  of  the  Prophet,  is  in  accordance  with  this  rightful 
position  as  the  great  prophet  of  latter  days,  and  every  word  of  it  is 
directly  inconsistent  with  any  assumption  that  he  was  not  sincere,  that 
he  was  not  what  he  professed  to  be. 

For  some  years  it  was  a  matter  of  regret,  serious  regret  upon  my 
part  as  a  boy,  to  think  that  some  of  the  witnesses  were  weak  enough 
to  side-step  from  the  straight  and  narrow  path.  But  I  think  that  even 
in  that,  there  was  a  providence  of  the  Lord  in  strengthening  this  case, 
because  it  is  out  of  all  question,  in  considering  the  attitude  of  Joseph 
toward  those  witnesses,  both  the  three  and  the  eight,  and  in  con- 
sidering their  attitude,  to  suppose  that  any  such  a  thing  as  a  conspiracy 
was  involved.  The  case  in  support  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  is 
very  greatly  strengthened  by  the  witnesses,  being  disciplined  and  yet  re- 
maining true  to  their  testimonies. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  realize  in  every  deed,  day 
by  day,  not  only  while  we  are  in  this  presence  or  in  the  congregations 
of  the  Saints,  but  every  day,  and  all  the  time,  that  these  great  facts 
are  indeed  truths,  and  that  a  great  responsibility  rests  upon  each  one 
of  us  to  act  in  accordance  with  these  convictions,  and  in  accordance 
with  the  responsibility  placed  upon  us  to  bear  this  testimony  to  the 
world.  May  the  Lord  bless  us,  and  help  us  to  perform  that  high 
mission  to  the  world,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


4 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


145 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  with  us  this  morning  Patriarch  Harrison  Sperry,  who 
came  here  in  1847,  in  my  father's  company,  and  we  will  be  very 
pleased  indeed  to  hear  from  him.  He  has  more  hair  on  his  head,  and 
less  gray  hair,  than  I  have,  although  I  think  he  is  about  eighty-nine 
years  of  age.    He  will  tell  us  when  he  gets  up  here. 

PATRIARCH  HARRISON  SPERRY 

(Of  the  Granite  Stake  of  Zion) 

Brother  Ileber  tells  me  that  there  are  ten  or  twelve  minutes  foi 
me  to  speak.  Yes,  T  came  here  in  the  c  mpany  of  Brother  Heber's 
father,  in  1847  :  and  r  think  that  I  couid  almost  preach  a  sermon  that 
I  heard  him  preach  over  seventy-two  years  ago.  I  have  been  in  the 
Church  a  long  time.  I  was  baptized  about  seventy-nine  years  ago.  I  have 
seen  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  heard  him  talk.  He  was  one  of  the 
most  noble  men  that  ever  lived  upon  the  face  of  this  earth.  I  think 
he  brought  more  knowledge  to  the  human  family  than  any  prophet 
who  ever  lived  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  He  brought  more  knowl- 
edge in  regard  to  the  living  and  the  dead  than  all  of  the  prophets 
that  ever  lived,  even  Moses  himself,  who  talked  with  God,  and  so  did 
that  Prophet  Joseph.  He  talked  with  the  angel  Moroni  nine  or  ten 
times.  Moroni  told  him  some  of  the  most  wonderful  truths  that  were 
ever  told  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  When  Joseph  received  the  prin- 
ciples in  regard  to  baptism  for  the  dead,  he  entered  the  Mississippi 
river  and  commenced  to  baptize  all  that  had  come  to  him.  The 
Lord  cautioned  him,  and  said :  "Joseph,  this  must  be  done  in  the 
temple  of  the  Lord,  and  a  record  must  be  kept."  Then  Joseph  went 
to  work  and  rushed  the  temple  in  Nauvoo  with  all  of  his  might.  I 
have  been  around  that  temple  many  a  time,  and  what  a  noble  edifice  it 
was  that  was  built  there  in  Nauvoo.  There  is  a  long  story  that  I 
could  tell,  but  there  isn't  time.  I  have  been  here  in  these  valleys 
now  for  almost  seventy-three  years.  Brigham  Young — I  have  been 
acquainted  with  him ;  President  John  Taylor, — I  was  well  acquainted 
with  him :  Brother  Woodruff, — I  was  well  acquainted  with  him :  our 
farms  joined  together ;  and  Brother  Snow,  that  noble  man  of  God,  well 
acquainted  with  him;  Joseph  F.  Smith— well  acquainted  with  him. 
When  his  mother  had  a  little  farm  down  here  upon  the  country  road. 
I  went  there  and  helped  them  to  harvest  their  little  grain.  Joseph  F. 
.was  a  little  boy  then,  about  nine  or  ten  years  old.  I  ate  dinner  with  him 
and  his  noble  mother,  and  Joseph  told  me: 

"Brother  Sperry,  I  was  born  away  up  there  in  Missouri  during  that 
great  trouble,  and  my  mother  laid  me  down  upon  a  bed  and  spread 
some  quilts  over  me,  and  when  they  came  to  me,  Brother  Sperry, 
my  face  was  almost  as  black  as  your  coat ;  I  was  almost  dead." 

Oh,  Joseph,  the  Lord  works  in  mysterious  ways,  doesn't  he  ?  Oh, 
surely,  surely. 

There  was  poor  Mary  with  that  little  child  when  twelve  thousand 
people  were  driven  out  of  Missouri.    Oh,  that  noble  woman!    I  ate 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


dinner  with  her  away  down  here,  a  noble  woman;  and  when  Joseph 
was  called  to  go  to  the  Islands,  just  a  boy,  just  a  little  boy,  only  fif- 
teen years  old,  I  said : 

"Oh,  Joseph,  you  are  going  away  over  there  across  that  mighty 
ocean,  to  a  people  that  you  don't  know  anything  about." 

"Yes,"  said  he,  "and  President  Young  gave  me  $10  in  all." 

When  he  returned  he  said :  "I  went  over  there  and  I  paid  my  own 
way;  came  back  again,  and  then  they  sent  me  to  England." 

"Why,  Joseph,  I  can't  keep  track  of  you.  You  are  here,  and  there 
and  everywhere." 

God  bless  you,  my  people.  God  bless  you  noble  ones,  you  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  those  who  preside  over  the  various  quorums,  and 
over  the  various  missions  of  our  land.  May  the  peace  of  heaven  rest 
upon  you.  I  have  been  here  in  Utah  a' long  time.  I  have  been  in  the 
bishopric  here  for  forty-six  years,labored  and  toiled  with  all  of  my 
might,  and  yet  I  feel  sometimes  I  am  just  about  forty  years  old ;  but 
only  eighty-eight  years.  I  have  had  a  wonderful  experience  in  the 
earth.  I  am  giving  patriarchal  blessings  almost  all  the  time.  I  don't 
know,  I  can't  remember  how  many,  but  over  a  thousand,  probably 
twelve  hundred  that  I  have  given ;  and  yet  giving  blessings  all  the 
time ;  but  I  want  to  do  all  that  I  possibly  can.  I  wish  I  had  the  voice 
of  the  trumpet  of  the  Almighty.  I  want  to  sound  it  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth:  This  is  God's  work!  This  is  God's  work!  The  great  work 
of  our  Lord  is  going  forth  amongst  the  nations  of  the  earth.  It 
is  wonderful,  it  is  wonderful  to  me.  When  we  look  abroad  and  see 
what  the  Father  has  done  for  his  Saints  who  came  to  this  land,  and 
when  we  look  abroad  and  see  where  the  gospel  has  gone  all  over  the 
land  everywhere,  and  see  the  blessings  of  our  Father  upon  us — the 
beautiful  homes,  our  children  far  and  near  by  the  thousands,  oh,  God's 
work  is  with  us.  Brethren  and  sisters,  be  faithful  and  true.  Work,  work 
on,  for  this  is  God's  work;  and  may  the  peace  of  heaven  rest  upon 
you,  Heber.   I  think  that  is  all.   God  bless  you.  Amen. 

Choir  and  congregation  sang  "Praise  God  from  Whom  all  bless- 
ings flow." 

The  conference  was  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 
Prayer  by  Elder  Alma  Merrill. 


CLOSING  SESSION 

The  conference  was  called  to  order  at  2  o'clock  by  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  who  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  "Come,  let  us  anew  our  jour- 
ney pursue."  • 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Lars  Oveson,  President  of  the 
Emery  stake  of  Zion. 

Hester  Davis  Stevens  sang  a  sacred  solo,  "One  Hundred  Years." 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 


147 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  California  Mission) 

I  have  been  impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  during  this  con- 
ference, in  the  same  manner  that  a  good  brother  was  impressed  that  I 
heard  make  a  report  in  one  of  the  stakes  of  Zion  a  few  years  ago.  He 
had  just  returned  from  Salt  Lake  City,  where  he  had  been  in  attend- 
ance at  the  general  conference.  He  was  one  of  the  presidency  of  the 
stake  where  he  resided,  and  while  talking  in  one  of  the  meetings  of 
the  stake  conference  he  made  a  statement  to  this  effect :  his  family 
had  inquired  of  him  on  his  return  from  Salt  Lake  City  how  he  had  en- 
joyed the  general  conference,  and  his  answer  was :  "It  was  the  best 
conference  I  ever  attended  in  my  life."  And  then  he  said:  "The 
family  smiled,  and  the  children  said:  'Why,  father,  we  have  heard 
you  make  that  statement  after  every  conference  as  long  as  we  can  re- 
member.' "  He  informed  the  congregation  that  he  had  been  attend- 
ing general  conference  regularly  for  fifty-two  years.  I  was  very 
greatly  impressed  with  his  statement  that  after  being  in  attendance  at 
the  general  conferences  of  the  Church  on  more  than  one  hundred  oc- 
casions he  could  return  home  and  in  truth  say  the  last  one  attended 
"was  the  best  conference  I  ever  attended."  A  similar  feeling  of  satis- 
faction has  been  in  my  soul  during  this  conference.  From  the  open- 
ing remarks  that  were  made  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  when  he  pre- 
sented in  so  strong  and  inspired  a  manner  the  feelings  of  his  soul  in 
regard  to  the  great  work  that  God  has  established,  I  felt  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  was  present  directing  him  and  that  an  enjoyable  time  would 
be  had  in  the  conference  meetings.  As  I  have  listened  to  the  brethren 
who  have  occupied  this  position  and  who  have  borne  testimony  con- 
cerning the  truth  of  the  gospel,  that  feeling  has  increased  in  my  soul. 

I  praise  God  today,  with  my  brethren,  for  the  wonderful  work 
that  has  been  revealed  by  the  Lord  our  God.  I  feel  in  my  whole  being 
that  it  has  been  established  among  men  for  the  salvation  of  the  hu- 
man family.  It  seems  marvelous  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
I  should  enjoy  the  privilege  that  I  enjoy  here  today  of  speaking  in 
this  great  conference  which  is  commemorative  of  the  prophet's  first 
vision  one  hundred  years  ago.  I  praise  the  Lord  for  the  privilege 
of  bearing  testimony  concerning  the  work  of  God  this  day. 

I  have  been  thinking,  while  sitting  on  the  stand  looking  at  this  great 
congregation,  of  the  coming  of  my  parents  from  abroad,  about  sixty- 
three  years  ago.  The  message  of  the  gospel  was  sounded  in  the  ears 
of  my  parents  in  a* far-off  land,  and  they  yielded  obedience  to  the 
teachings  of  the  servants  of  God  a  little  more  than  sixty-five  years 
ago.  About  sixty-three  years  ago  they  entered  this  valley  in  the  same 
distressed  condition  that  a  great  many  other  people  entered  the  valley 
after  they  had  passed  through  a  very  trying  experience  in  crossing 
the  plains.  They  landed  here  worn  out  by  the  long  journey  and  in 
comparative  poverty,  and  afterwards  passed  through  the  experiences 
common  to  those  early  pioneers  who'  came  into  this  inter-mountain 
region  a  long  time  ago,  when  there  was  little  of  an  inviting  appear- 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ance  to  be  seen  in  this  great  desert  valley.  I  thank  God  today  that 
the  principles  of  "Mormonism"  had  taken  a  firm  hold  of  the  affec- 
tions of  my  father  and  mother,  and  that  to  those  principles  they  re- 
mained true  through  their  lives,  and  that  to  their  family  they  faith- 
fully taught  the  truth  of  the  everlasting  gospel,  and  bore  unswerving 
record  by  word  of  mouth,  and  by  example,  that  the  work  of  God  had 
indeed  been  restored  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth.  To  them  I  am 
indebted  for  the  great  privilege  I  this  day  enjoy.  I  believe  in  this 
restoration  and  in  the  necessity  for  the  opening  of  the  heavens,  that 
the  promises  of  holy  prophets  of  old  might  be  fulfilled,  as  has  been 
declared  by  practically  all  of  the  speakers  who  have  given  instructions 
during  this  conference. 

I  have  here  a  little  item  that  I  will  read  that  has  impressed  me 
upon  various  occasions.  It  was  not  written  by  one  of  our  people;  it 
was  written  by  a  convert,  in  fact,  a  priest  of  the  Catholic  Church. 
T  feel  sure  it  will  be  quite  appropriate  to  read  these  words  in  this  con- 
gregation. While  visiting  a  great  cathedral  in  Europe,  I  picked  up 
a  bumphlet  many  years  ago  at  the  time  I  was  doing  missionary  service 
in  the  European  mission.  The  booklet  was  entitled:  "Why  I  am  a 
Roman  Catholic."  The  title  impressed  me.  I  thought  I  would  like 
to  know  from  a  Roman  Catholic  point  of  view  why  an  individual  should 
be  connected  with  the  Roman  Catholic  Church.  I  had  discovered  from 
my  own  experiences,  as  no  doubt  many  of  you  have,  that  when  men 
who  were  out  of  the  "Mormon"  faith  attempted  to  expound  "Mormon- 
ism" they  ofttimes  presented  malicious,  and  also  grotesque  ideas  in 
regard  to  the  "Mormon"  faith.  I  have  never  in  my  life,  so  far  as  I 
remember,  read  from  the  pen  of  any  non-"Mormon"  writer  a  correct 
representation  of  the  faith  and  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  As  I  read  the  views  of  this  priest  in  relation 
to  his  reasons  for  being  a  Roman  Catholic,  I  was  very  greatly  im- 
pressed with  the  following  words : 

And  again  when  Luther,  Calvin,  Henry  the  Eighth,  and  their  followers, 
were  starting  in  their  mad  career,  either  the  true  religion  was  then  in 
the  world  or  it  was  not.  If  it  was,  they  committed  grievous  crimes  in 
making  new  religions  to  oppose  it.  If  it  was  not,  they  were  powerless  to 
create  it.  It  takes  a  Christ,  not  a  Luther,  to  create  a  Christianity.  On 
either  supposition,  therefore,  Protestantism  is  not  the  true  religion  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  think  that  is  a  true  representation.  If  the  religion  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  was  had  among  men  in  the  period  spoken  of  as  the  Re- 
formation, then  the  men  that  were  referred  to  as  reformers  were 
guilty  of  grievous  sin  in  attempting  to  establish  new  religions.  This 
statement  is  in  harmony  with  the  word  of  God.  It  is  the  teaching  of 
the  holy  Scriptures,  as  we  can  read  in  the  epistle  of  the  Apostle 
Paul  when  he  wrote  to  the  Galatians,  I  marvel  that  ye  are  so  soon  re- 
moved from  him  that  called  you  into  the  grace  of  Christ  unto  an- 
other gospel :  "which  is  not  another ;  but  there  be  some  that  trouble  you, 
and  would  pervert  the  gospel  of  Christ."  The  apostle  then  bore  record' 
in  the  most  positive  and  solemn  manner  that  if  they  received  any 


ELDER  JOSEPH  IV.  McMURRIN. 


149 


other  religion,  or  if  either  men  or  angels  taught  any  other  religion  or 
doctrine  than  the  religion  that  had  been  expounded  to  the  people  by 
the  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  then  they  were  to  be  accursed. 
So  that  whenever  men,  in  any  dispensation,  attempt  to  introduce  new 
religions,  that  differ  from  the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer,  they  are  not 
doing  the  things  that  God,  our  Father  in  heaven,  would  have  them 
do.  I  think  we  can  all  accept  the  teachings  of  the  priest  as  presented 
in  the  words  that  I  have  read  in  your  hearing.  If  the  true  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  did  not  exist  among  men  in  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury, it  is  a  solemn  truth  that  Martin  Luther  had  no  power  to  bring 
back  the  lost  gospel  and  his  fellow  reformers  were  just  as  powerless. 
We  have  great  respect  for  Martin  Luther,  and  other  good  men  among 
the  reformers.  I  would  not  leave  any  wrong  impression  upon  any 
mind.  We  believe  that  those  reformers  accomplished  a  splendid  work 
in  paving  the  way  for  that  religious  liberty  that  has  come  to  so  many 
of  the  children  of  men.  But  if  the  divine  authority,  the  power  to  ad- 
minister in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  had  been  lost  from 
among  men,  it  is  a  truth  that  Martin  Luther,  no  matter  how  good  his 
motives  might  have  been,  or  how  good  the  desires  of  his  associates, 
they  were  powerless  to  restore  the  authority  and  the  religion  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  Savior  being  the  author  of  true  religion 
was  the  only  source  of  authority.  If  the  plan  of  salvation  was  taken 
away  from  the  earth,  there  was  only  one  way  by  which  it  could  be 
given  to  men  again ;  and  that  is  clearly  set  forth  in  the  words  I 
have  read  to  you.  The  Redeemer  holding  all  power  was  the  only  being 
who  could  bring  back  to  earth  the  lost  gospel,  which  ever  has  been  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

I  rejoice  with  all  my  soul  that  at  the  opening  of  this  dispensation 
the  story  of  "Mormonism"  is  just  as  it  is.  Joseph  Smith  in  the  strong 
desire  that  was  upon  him  to  know  the  right  path  sought  the  Lord  our 
God  in  humble  prayer,  that  he  might  be  directed  aright ;  and  inasmuch 
as  there  was  no  man  upon  the  earth  exercising  the  authority  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  the  story  of  the  boy  is  in  every  way  logical,  when 
he  declares  that  God  himself  made  his  appearance,  with  our  Redeemer, 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  gave  him  the  instructions  that  have  been 
referred  to  in  the  discourses  that  have  been  delivered  during  this  con- 
ference. There  is  no  other  way  by  which  the  authority  that  had  in- 
deed been  lost  from  among  the  children  of  men  could  be  restored. 
Holy  beings,  who  held  this  divine  authority,  and  who  had  been  or- 
dained to  the  Priesthood  as  mortal  men,  had  been  given  the  power  to 
speak  and  act  and  minister  in  the  name  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 
These  very  men  were  sent  again  to  earth  and  gave  to  Joseph  Smith 
every  key  of  authority  they  possessed.  Let  the  world  think  what  it 
may,  and  say  what  it  will,  that  authority,  in  the  manner  portrayed 
in  the  words  of  Joseph  Smith,  was  restored  by  the  Lord  our  God,  and 
in  the  restoration  of  authority  the  promises  of  the  holy  prophets  have 
been  fulfilled ;  and  the  great  work  of  the  living  God  that  was  not  only 
spoken  of  by  our  Father  in  heaven  in  the  revelations  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  but  that  was  spoken  of  by  the  ancient  prophets 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


as  "a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder"  has  indeed  been  established  in 
this  dispensation,  and  is  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times. 
This  work  has  been  understood  and  comprehended  more  or  less,  by 
the  prophets  in  all  dispensations.  It  has  now  been  revealed'  according 
to  the  promise  of  the  Lord  God  of  heaven  for  the  last  time.  It  has 
been  established  by  his  wisdom  and  by  his  will,  with  the  promise  that 
it  shall  endure  forever  and  forever,  and  so  it  shall  be,  as  the  Lord 
God  Almighty  lives. 

May  our  Father  in  heaven  help  us  who  are  privileged  today  to 
assist  in  the  establishment  of  that  marvelous  work,  to  be  faithful,  and 
steadfast,  and  determined,  that  we  may  bring  to  pass  the  purpose  of 
God,  and  work  out  our  own  salvation,  I  humbly  pray,  through  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRTJM  G.  SMITH 

(Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church) 

■  My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  one  respect  I  have  not  enjoyed  this 
conference  very  much,  because  Lhave  sat  here  with  fear  and  trembling 
throughout  every  session  of  the  conference.  In  other  respects,  I  praise 
the  Lord  for  his  Spirit  that  has  been  with  my  brethren  who  have  ad- 
dessed  this  conference,  for  I  testify  that  their  words  have  been  di- 
rected by  the  Spirit  of  God  for  the  strengthening  of  the  faith  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  for  the  advancement  of  God's  work  upon  the 
earth. 

I  have  in  my  heart  a  desire  that  all  the  faithful  in  Israel  today 
shall  be  blessed  of  the  Lord.  I  have  in  my  heart  a  blessing  for  the 
Saints  of  God  who  have  come  to  this  conference  and  have  so  faith- 
fully remained  in  such  goodly  number,  even  to  this  last  session,  and 
I  pray  God  to  bless  you,  sustain  you,  strengthen  your  faith,  provide 
for  your  necessities  and  help  you,  as  my  brethren  and  sisters  in  the 
faith  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  carry  out  his  purposes  in  the  earth, 
to  fulfil  the  wonderful  work  and  mission  which  have  been  themes  of 
this  conference. 

I  also  desire  to  remind  my  brethren  and  sisters  that  the  eyes 
of  the  world  are  upon  us,  upon  you  and  upon  this  work,  that  we  have 
been  called  upon  to  perform.  Therefore,  we  should  be  as  near  to  what 
we  profess  to  be  as  it  is  possible  for  us  to  be.  And  although  the  ad- 
versary made  an  attempt  to  thwart  the  purposes  of  the  Lord  when 
Joseph  Smith  went  into  the  woods  to  pray,  he  was  overcome  and 
his  plan  was  set  aside  by  the  powers  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son, 
who  came  in  glory  and  dispelled  the  agents  of  darkness  and  the  very 
evil  one  himself.  That  evil  influence  still  exists  in  the  world,  that 
battle  between  light  and  darkness  is  still  going  on.  The  adversary 
has  not  given  up  the  fight.  He  is  still  sniping  here  and  there  and 
carrying  on  other  plans  to  thwart  the  purposes  of  the  Lord.  In  a 
revelation  to  the  prophet,  we  are  given  counsel,  advice  and  instruc- 
tion which,  if  we  obey,  will  help  us  to  triumph  in  this  battle  for  the 
truth  and  for  the  right. 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH. 


151 


I  read  from  section  fifty-nine:  "And  that  thou  mayest  more 
fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world,  thou  shalt  go  to  the 
house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy  day ;  for 
verily  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors ; 
and  to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most  High.  Nevertheless  thy 
vows  shall  be  offered  up  in  righteousness  on  all  days  and  at  all  times." 

Also,  in  section  sixty-eight,  further  counsel  and  advice  are  given 
upon  this  same  subject.  The  Lord  has  given  a  word  to  the  parents 
who  have  children,  directing  how  to  care  for  them  and  to  teach 
them:  "For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in 
any  of  her  stakes  which  are  organized ;  and  their  children  shall  be 
baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins  when  eight  years  old,  and  re- 
ceive the  laying  on  of  the  hands,  and  they  shall  also  teach  their  chil- 
dren to  pray  and  to  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord  *  *  * 
And  a  commandment  I  give  unto  them,  that  he  that  observeth  not 
his  prayers  before  the  Lord  in  the  season  thereof,  let  him  be  had  in 
remembrance  before  the  judge  of  my  people." 

So,  let  me  admonish  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  observe 
the  counsels  given  in  these  revelations,  for  they  are  the  words  of 
the  Lord  unto  us  today  regarding  this  principle  which  will  give  us 
power  and  favor  with  our  heavenly  Father,  in  battling  with  the  pow- 
ers of  darkness,  that  we  may  triumph  and  secure  the  blessings  pre- 
pared for  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God. 

Now,  you  may  say,  we  do  pray,  we  are  a  praying  people,  and 
that  is  true.  The  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  prayerful  people,  but  we 
are  admonished  to  pray  not  only  for  ourselves,  but  to  pray  always — 
and  to  pray  for  our  enemies,  also  to  teach  our  children  to  pray  and 
to  pray  in  season  thereof, — pray  night  and  morning,  every  day,  in 
public  and  in  secret.  I  am  grateful  that  we  have  men  and  women 
who  have  been  blessed  with  the  spirit  of  prayer,  whose  hearts  are 
filled  with  the  desire  to  keep  the  counsels  of  the  Lord.  They  are 
the  leaders  in  Israel,  and  I  admonish  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  follow  their  counsels,  because  the  Lord  has  always  had  leaders  in 
Israel  and  he  always  will  have  as  long  as  this  work  shall  remain  in  the 
earth. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  testimony  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  that 
I  have  been  blessed  with,  .for  I  feel  in  every  fiber  of  my  being 
that  the  testimony  of  Joseph  Smith  is  true.  I  have  never  doubted 
from  my  earliest  boyhood  days  that  the  story  told  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  is  the  absolute  truth.  I  have  always  honored  my  birthright 
as  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  and  think  myself  very  fortunate  in- 
deed to  be  numbered  among  those  whom  the  Lord  has  honored  with 
responsibility  in  his  work,  and  for  the  testimony  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  that  has  come  to  me,  not  alone  through  teachings  but  through 
diligent  study  and  humble  prayer.  And  never  have  I  doubted  the 
teachings  of  the  leaders  in  Israel,  nor  my  parents,  concerning  the 
life  and  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  pray  God  to  bless 
his  memory  and  the  work  of  the  Lord  which  he  has  been  the  instru- 
ment in  accomplishing  and  establishing  upon  the  earth. 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  admonish  my  brethren  and  sisters  to  be  more  prayerful  in  the 
future  than  they  have  been  in  the  past,  and  to  be  more  diligent  in 
teaching  their  children  to  pray,  that  we  may  triumph  in  the  end  over 
the  powers  of  darkness,  and  be  permitted  to  join  in  this  glorious 
work  with  our  Prophet  on  the  other  side  and  with  all  other  prophets 
of  God.  I  acknowledge  the  hand  of  the'  Lord  in  his  blessings  unto 
me,  and  although  a  weak  and  humble  instrument  in  his  hands,  I 
have  observed  many  sacred  testimonies  which  have  come  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  through  the  words  that  have  come  to  me  as  a  servant 
officiating  by  virtue  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  and  by  that  authority, 
I  bless  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  all  the 
faithful  members  thereof,  especially  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  who 
have  been  given  responsibility  and  leadership.  My  heart  goes  out 
to  you  in  blessings  from  the  Lord,  because  I  say  to  you  in  his  name 
that  he  is  pleased  with  those  who  are  true  and  faithful,  with  those 
who  can  stand  up,  as  the  brethren  have  in  this  conference,  in  the  dif- 
ferent sessions  thereof,  and  testify  in  boldness  and  in  wisdom  per- 
taining to  the  growth  and  truth  of  this  work.  God  is  at  the  helm. 
This  is  his  work  and  not  ours,  although  we  are  his  agents,  author- 
ized with  power  and  with  authority  to  carry  it  on.  These  are  instru- 
ments for  our  guidance,  and  a  principle  of  power  with  us  and  our 
children,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  prayer.  May  you  take  it  home 
and  cultivate  it  and  practice  it  to  the  glory  and  honor  of  God  and 
his  work  in  the  earth,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

The  work  of  God  is  in  very  deed  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder. 
It  began  before  the  foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid  and  that  great 
and  marvelous  work  is  still  in  progress.  It  has  to  do  with  the  sal- 
vation of  our  Father's  children — all  that  ever  have  lived,  in  all  the 
ages  that  are  past  and  gone,  and  it  has  to  do  with  all  that  now  live 
and  all  of  those  yet  unborn  who  shall  yet  come  forth  and  have  an 
existence  upon  this  earth,  or  upon  any  other  earth  or  planet;  all  of 
which  have  been  made  or  created  by  tht  Almighty  for  the  express 
purpose  of  providing  habitations  for  his  children.  "God  moves  in  a 
mysterious  way  his  wonders  to  perform."  We  live  in  the  midst  of 
those  marvelous  things  and  every  student  of  history  cannot  review 
that  which  has  transpired  in  connection  with  this  world,  without 
feeling  in  his  whole  being  that  God  is  moving  in  his  majesty  in  bring- 
ing about  his  glorious  purposes.  He  who  created  the  heavens  and 
the  earth  in  the  beginning,  as  we  read  in  Holy  Writ,  did  not  regard 
that  work  as  the  goal  of  his  labors.  That  was  merely  a  preliminary 
toward  the  accomplishment  of  his  great  and  glorious  work,  that 
marvelous  work  and  a  wonder.  We  read  in  The  Pearl  of  Great 
Price  what  his  great  and  glorious  work  is :  "This  is  my  work  and 
my    glory — to  bring  to  pass  the    immortality  and    eternal  life  of 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


153 


man."  We  heard  from  President  Penrose  that  we  were  all  the 
begotten  children  of  God  before  we  tabernacled  in  these  bodies  of 
flesh  and  bone,  and  ever  since  the  coming  of  our  first  parents, 
Adam  and  Eve,  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,  this  work  of  the  Lord  has 
been  developing  here  upon  the  earth.  Let  no  one  think  that  the 
teeming  millions  that  now  inhabit  the  earth,  even  the  wicked  and  un- 
godly, those  who,  through  their  sins,  are  bringing  down  upon  them- 
selves such  terrible  woe  and  suffering;  let  no  one  think  that  their 
lives  are  all  in  vain,  or  that  they  have  no  part  in  the  work  of  the 
Almighty,  for  they  shall  all  be  saved  eventually  in  the  consumma- 
tion of  God's  great  work.  Only  those  who  are  the  sons  of  perdition, 
who  deny  the  Son  after  the  Father  has  revealed  him,  who  sin  against 
light  and  knowledge,  shall  be  deprived  of  every  degree  of  glory  and 
salvation,  but  all  the  rest,  even  those  that  do  wickedly, — and  the 
world  is  full  of  them — now  living  upon  this  earth,  after  they  have 
paid  the  penalty,  even  to  the  utmost  farthing,  for  all  the  evil  they 
have  done,  shall  eventually  be  saved  in  the  telestial,  or  the  lesser, 
degree  of  glory,  concerning  which  we  read  that  it  is  so  great  that 
it  surpasseth  all  understanding.  And,  therefore  I  say,  their  lives  are 
not  in  vain,  notwithstanding  their  wickedness.  They  have  received 
their  bodies  of  flesh  and  bone  they  have  been  schooled  in  'this  world 
of  sorrow  and  sin;  they  shall  be  cast  down  and  pay  the  penalty;  but 
when  that  is  done  they  shall  be  redeemed  and  receive  a  glory  pre- 
pared for  them,  which,  notwithstanding  they  may  never  come  where 
God  and  his  Christ  dwell,  yet  nevertheless  is  so  great  that  it  sur- 
passeth all  understanding.  The  opportunities  for  an  exaltation  in 
the  presence  of  God,  have  been  given  by  our  Father  in  his  mercy  and 
goodness  and  offered  to  all  those  that  would  yield  obedience  t£ 
his  gospel,  and  how  grateful  we  ought  to  be  for  that.  If  the  wicked 
are  to  receive  such  glory  what  then  will  be  the  glory  of  the  faith- 
ful? 

We  have  been  listening  to  the  narration  of  a  most  wonderful 
event — the  appearance  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  the  boy  prophet, 
Joseph  Smith.  Indeed,  it  is  wonderful,  and  so  have  the  events  that 
have  transpired  in  other  dispensations  of  God's  providence  been 
wonderful.  Think  of  the  wonderful  ministry  of  our  Redeemer.  One 
great  American  statesman  when  asked:  "How  can  you  believe  in  the 
divinity  of  Christ  and  in  the  miracles  he  wrought?"  answered,  "I 
find  it  much  more  difficult  not  to  believe  in  them." 

I  believe  in  the  vision  that  was  given  to  the  prophet,  Joseph  Smith. 
I  have  always  believed  it  all  my  life.  I  find  it  more  difficult  not  to 
believe  it.  The  evidences  are  so  complete  that  not  one  shadow  of 
a  doubt  remains  with  me  as  to  the  truth  of  that  great  and  glorious 
event.  Let  no  one  confuse  in  their  minds  the  two  words  "credulity" 
and  "faith."  They  do  not  resemble  each  other.  Credulity  is  a  weak- 
ness;  faith  is  strength.  Credulity  is  founded  frequently  upon  false 
testimony,  but  faith  is  unfailing.  Faith  is  listening  to  the  whisper- 
ings of  God  unto  our  souls,  and  he  that  resists  faith  is  fighting 
against  God,  and  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to  please  him,  but 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


with  faith  we  can  accept  the  truth,  for  the  Lord  manifests  it  by  his 
unfailing  and  unerring-  Spirit  that  bears  witness  of  the  truth. 

"There  is  a  spirit  in  man,  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty 
giveth  him  understanding."  The  Lord  did  not  leave  us  alone  or  in 
darkness  when  he  placed  us  here  on  earth.  He  opened  a  channel  of 
communication  that  we  might  receive  the  truth  direct  from  him. 
Faith  then  is  the  gift  of  God — the  assurance  which  we  receive  from 
him  of  all  that  is  true ;  it  is  listening  to  the  still  small  voice  of  God. 
Then  through  our  faith,  which  is  the  natural  impulse,  he  has  placed 
in  every  human  heart,  God  is  striving  to  bring  us  back  into  his  pres- 
ence, and  will  continue  so  to  strive  until  we,  shut  him  out  by  refusing 
to  hearken  to  his  voice,  and,  giving  a  more  willing  ear  to  the  voice 
of  the  adversary  of  our  souls,  we  fall  into  the  ways  of  wickedness  and 
sin.  Both  God  and  his  arch  enemy  are  striving  with  each  and 
everyone  of  us.  Let  us  have  faith  in  God  and  hearken  unto  him  and 
reject  the.  counsel  of  the  adversary.  What  will  faith  avail  us?  Abso- 
lutely nothing  unless  it  is  united  with  the  works  of  obedience  to  his 
divine  will. 

Before  me  is  a  vast  congregation  of  men  and  women,  who  be- 
lieve in  the  divinity  of  the  call  that  came  to  the  prophet,  Joseph 
Smith; — the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  has  given  to  their  souls  an 
understanding  of  the  truth  of  this  marvelous  work  in  which  we^are 
now  engaged.  Their  very  presence  here  is  a  manifestation  of  that 
faith.  I  find  still  further  evidences  of  that  faith  in  the  sacrifices 
that  our  people  have  made  and  are  making,  in  carrying  the  gospel 
message  to  the  world  in  the  free  giving  of  their  time  and  means;  in 
their  devoted  and  unselfish  labors  both  at  home  and  abroad;  in  the 
payment  of  their  tithes  and  offerings ;  in  the  building  of  temples  and 
the  performance  of  holy  ordinances  therein  for  the  living  and  the 
dead,  and  in  the  erection  of  houses  of  worship  and  school  buildings 
for  the  education  and  development  and  enlightenment  of  the  people 
both  young  and  old. 

Here  then  is  a  manifestation  of  a  living  faith  in  God ;  in  the  glo- 
rious vision  which  he  gave  to  Joseph  and  in  the  marvelous  work  which 
he  has  inaugurated  through  the  instrumentality  of  this  Latter-day 
Prophet,  whom  he  raised  up  to  usher  in  this  great  and  glorious  dis- 
pensation of  his  providence — the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times. 
The  way  to  exaltation  in  the  presence  of  God,  then,  is  through  faith, 
combined  with  the  works  of  obedience  to  his  divine  will.  He  desires 
that  we  shall  live  by  faith.  The  time  will  come  when  all  shall  know 
him,  even  from  the  greatest  to  the  least — when  every  knee  shall  bow 
and  -every  tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  Some  will  be 
converted  by  outward  evidences.  The  Savior  said  to  Thomas,  who 
would  not  believe  without  seeing  the  print  of  the  nails  and  the  wound 
in  his  side, — "Thomas,  because  thou  hast  seen  me,  thou  hast  be- 
lieved; blessed  are  they  that  have  not  seen  and  yet  have  believed." 
Some  are  blinded  by  their  prejudices  and  by  the  sophistries  and  false 
philosophies  of  men;  and  men  and  women  who  have  been  thus  de- 
ceived, not  through  any  fault  of  the  Lord,  but  because  they  failed 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


155 


to  hearken  to  the  voice  of  the  ever-striving  Spirit  of  God,  or,  in 
other  words  because  they  had  not  faith,  which  means  simply  they 
were  not  living  in  communication  with  the  Lord,  which  is  the  priv- 
ilege of  every  child  of  God,  and  not  to  thus  live  and  hearken  to  the 
whisperings  of  his  voice  is  resisting  his  efforts  to  bring  us  back  to 
him..  Then  let  us  live  by  faith  and  couple  that  faith  with  the  works 
of  obedience ;  have  faith  in  God  and  put  your  trust  in  him.  Have 
faith  in  his  servants  and  hearken  to  their  counsel. 

With  all  my  soul  I  believe  in  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  prophet,  Joseph 
Smith.  I  know  that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  and  if  we 
live  in  accordance  with  its  teachings  we  shall  receive  God's  greatest 
gift  unto  his  children — Eternal  Life  in  his  presence,  which  is  the 
greatest  glory  and  promise,  and  is  made  only  to  those  who  are  valiant 
for  the  truth,  who  live  by  faith  and  reject  not  the  counsels  of  God ;  a 
glory  which  the  wicked  and  ungodly  shall  not  attain ;  a  glory  far 
superior  to  the  terrestrial  glory,  which  shall  come  to  the  many  hon- 
orable men  and  women  of  the  earth,  who  have  been  blinded  by  their 
prejudioes  and  sophistries  and  vain  philosophies  of  men ;  a  glory  that 
is  to  be  enjoyed  exclusively  by  those  who  live  by  faith,  who  hearken 
to  the  voice  of  God  and  render  obedience  to  his  divine  will,  even  the 
celestial  glory,  the  highest  of  all.  All  the  Father  hath  he  giveth 
unto  such. 

May  we  all  attain  unto  this  glory,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

(Senior  President  of  the  Council  of  Seventy) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  been  impressed  during  this  con- 
ference with  the  weight  of  testimony  that  has  been  given  by  those 
who  have  addressed  us  in  regard  to  the  divine  mission  of  the  Savior 
of  the  World  and  also  of  the  mission,  the  sacred  mission,  of  the  prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

In  his  autobiography  we  read:  "As  we  were  translating  from 
the  plates,  we  came  across  the  sentence  in  relation  to  baptism  for  the 
remission  of  sins,  and  so  impressed  were  we  with  this  sacred  principle 
we  immediately  repaired  to  a  secret  place  and  prayed  unto  the  Lord 
concerning  the  administration  of  baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins." 

And  when  searching  the  record  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  I  felt 
impressed  to  seek  for  the  evidence  that  is  there  produced,  in  regard 
to  the  ordinance  of  baptism.  In  the  eleventh  chapter  of  3rd  Nephi  I 
found  the  full  direction  and  explanation  of  this  beautiful  subject. 
The  few  Nephites  who  were  gathered  around  the  temple  were 
conversing  together  in  regard  to  the  changes  of  nature  that  had 
been  produced  by  the  upheavals  of  the  earth  during  the  crucifixion  of 
our  Savior.  And  then,  as  they  were  conversing  and  comparing  the 
events  that  had  recently  transpired,  impressed  as  they  were  that  the 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


time  of  his  crucifixion  had  passed,  that  the  time  of  his  rest  in  the 
tomb  had  passed,  and  that  he  had  been  resurrected,  they  all  at  once 
heard  a  voice,  and  at  first  they  did  not  understand  what  was  said. 
And  a  second  time  they  heard  the  voice,  and  then  the  third  time  they 
looked  up  into  heaven  from  whence  the  voice  proceeded  and  they  saw 
a  man  descending  from  on  high,  clothed  in  a  pure  white  robe.  And 
the  Savior  came  and  stood  in  their  midst,  and  he  called  upon  Nephi, 
so  the  record  says,  and  Nephi  stood  before  him  and  the  Savior  gave 
him  the  commission  to  baptize  in  his  name,  to  immerse  in  the  waters 
of  baptism  and  so  impressed  was  Nephi  with  this  great  power  and 
with  the  condescension  of  the  Savior  to  him  that  he  fell  down  before 
the  Lord  and  kissed  his  feet.  Others  were  also  appointed  to  minister 
in  this  scared  ordinance,  so  the  record  proclaims.  You  are  well 
aware,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  history. 

In  answer  to  the  prayer  made  by  the  Prophet  Joseph,  at  this 
time,  came  John  the  Baptist,  the  forerunner  of  the  Christ,  the  great 
prophet  that  had  the  privilege  of  ministering  baptism  to  our  Lord ; 
and  he  conferred  upon  Joseph  and  Oliver,  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
which  gave  them  the  power  to  teach  and  minister  in  the  principles  of 
the  gospel,  and  to  baptize  for  the  remission  of  sins. 

In  the  first  chapter  of  3rd  Nephi  we  have  a  very  direct  ac- 
count of  the  evidence  of  the  birth  of  the  Savior.  The  Lamanite 
prophet,  Samuel,  predicted  that  the  time  would  come  when  there 
would  be  a  witness  of  the  birth  of  the  Savior^manifested  upon  this 
land,  manifested  to  the  Nephites  and  to  the  Lamanites ;  and  it  is  re- 
corded that  those  who  were  members  of  the  Church  were  in  the 
minority  to  that  degree  that  their  enemies  proclaimed  to  them  that 
if  the  sign  that  was  predicted  by  Samuel,  the  Lamanite  prophet,  was 
not  immediately  fulfilled  that  all  those  who  believed  in  this  prediction 
should  be  put  to  death.  Nephi  went  out  into  a  secret  place  and  pleaded 
with  the  Lord  to  know  if  this  sign  would  be  given  of  the  coming  of 
the  Savior,  that  at  his  birth  there  should  be  a  day  and  a  night  and 
another  day  without  any  darkness  between  the  two  days.  As  Nephi 
was  praying  to  the  Lord  with  all  his  heart,  bowed  in  sorrow  because 
of  the  distress  and  the  destruction  that  was  threatened  to  come  upon 
his  people,  the  Lord  whispered  to  him:  "Lift  up  your  head  and  re- 
joice; be  of  good  cheer,  for  this  very  night  shall  the  sign  be  given, 
and  tomorrow  come  I  into  the  world."  So  the  history  continues, 
that  very  night  the  sun  went  down  as  usual,  but  no  darkness  followed, 
and  when  the  sun  arose  again  in  the  morning  there  had  been  no  dark- 
ness upon  the  face  of  the  land.  Then  the  believers  and  the  faithful 
Church  members  knew  that  Christ  was  born.  Then  the  enemies  that 
had  threatened  their  destruction  knew  that  they  were  thwarted  in 
their  designs  and  they  became  frightened  and  were  inspired  with  the 
feeling  of  fear  and  the  desire  to  make  peace  with  those  who  had  been 
faithful.  Many  of  them  repented  of  their  sins  and  were  added  to 
the  Church,  so  says  the  record. 

In  the  Mutual  Improvement  Association  of  the  Church  they  have 
adopted  a  slogan  for  this  year.  That  slogan  is:  "We  stand  for  spirit- 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


157 


ual  growth  through  attendance  at  sacrament  meetings,"  and  the 
members  endeavor  to  induce  others  to  do  so  with  all  the  ability  that 
they  possess.  In  the  eighteenth  chapter  of  3rd  Nephi,  this  same  glo- 
rious record  that  I  have  alluded  to  before,  we  find  that  the  Savior 
visited  the  Church  and  instructed  the  people  how  to  officiate  in  the 
sacred  ordinances  of  ministering  the  Lord's  Supper.  It  is  recorded 
that  he  said  to  his  disciples :  "Bring  bread  and  wine."  And  while 
they  were  gone  for  the  bread  and  the  wine  he  called  to  the  people  and 
bade  them  to  sit  down  in  groups  upon  the  earth,  and  when  the  bread 
and  the  wine  came  he  took  the  bread,  blessed  and  brake,  and  gave  to 
his  disciples  and  said  to  them :  Eat  of  this  in  memory  of  me,  and 
inasmuch  as  ye  shall  do  this  and  remember  me  and  the  offering  that 
I  have  made,  you  shall  have  my  spirit  always  to  be  with  you.  And 
when  they  had  partaken  he  commanded  them  to  give  to  the  multitude. 
And  then  he  took  the  wine  and  blessed  it  and  when  the  disciples  had 
partaken  he  commanded  them  to  give  to  the  multitude,  and  he  said : 
"As  often  as  ye  shall  do  this  in  memory  of  my  blood  which  was  shed 
for  you,  you  shall  have  my  spirit  to  be  with  you." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  glad  that  I  am  present  at  this 
splendid  conference.  I  have  listened  to  some  of  the  greatest  testi- 
monies during  the  sessions  that  have  been  held.  I  have  listened  to 
inspired  men  who  have  spoken  as  they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost,  in  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  work,  in  testimony 
of  that  great  man  who,  as  a  little  boy,  went  before  the  Lord  in  hum- 
ble prayer  and  asked  that  he  might  know  which  was  the  true  Church, 
for  he  was  impressed  with  the  desire  to  be  a  member  of  that  Church, 
and  you  know  the  answer  that  came  to  him.  It  has  been  rehearsed 
here  during  this  conference,  and  you  know  the  condescension  of  our 
Father  and  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  when  they  appeared  to  the  boy 
and  gave  him  the  necessary  information,  and  answer  to  his  question. 
The  same  spirit  inspired  the  Prophet  Joseph  when  he  wanted  to 
know  of  his  standing  before  the  Lord,  three  years  after  his  first 
vision,  and  again  he  prayed  to  the  Father  that  he  might  know  and 
the  Lord  sent  his  messenger  again.  The  Nephite  prophet  this  time 
came  and  visited  and  gave  him  a  high  commission.  Then,  at  the 
time  that  he  wanted  to  know  in  regard  to  the  principle  of  baptism  for 
the  remission  of  sins  for  the  third  time  he  went  before  the  Lord.  He 
went  to  that  unfailing  source  of  intelligence  and  inspiration,  and  he  did 
not  appeal  in  vain,  and  the  Lord,  according  to  the  record,  sent  his 
messenger  to  give  him  the  desired  answer  and  information. 

And  when  he  was  in  prison  in  Liberty  jail,  Clay  county,  Missouri, 
he  again  sought  the  Lord  in  fervent  prayer,  beseeching  him  with  all 
the  anguish  and  sorrow  of  his  soul : 

"Oh  God!  where  art  thou?  And  where  is  the  pavilion  that  covereth 
thy  hiding  place?" 

"Oh  Lord  God  Almighty,  Maker  of  the  heaven  and  earth,  *  *  *  stretch 
forth  thy  hand;  *  *  *  let  thy  hiding  place  no  longer  be  covered;  let 
thine  ear  be  inclined;  let  thine  heart  be  softened    *    *    *    toward  us." 

"Remember  thy  suffering  Saints,  O  our  God  \  and  thy  servants  will 
rejoice  in  thy  name  forever." 


158 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


"My  son,  peace  be  unto  thy  soul;  thine  adversity  and  thine  afflictions 
shall  be  but  a  small  moment." 

"And  then,  if  thou  endure  it  well,  God  shall  exalt  thee  on  high.    *    *  * 

"Cursed  are  all  those  that  shall  lift  up  the  heel  against  mine  anointed, 
saith  the  Lord,  *  *  *  they  are  the  servants  of  sin,  and  are  the  children 
of  disobedience  themselves."    *    *  * 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the 
household  of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly,  then 
shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God,  and  the  doctrine 
of  the  Priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven." 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  campanion,  and  thy  sceptre 
an  unchanging  sceptre  of  righteousness  and  truth,  and  thy  dominion  shall 
be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means,  it  shall  flow 
unto  thee  forever  and  ever." 

I  testify  to  you  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  Prophet  of  God, 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  World,  that  his  Church  is  on 
the  earth  today  and  that  this  people  are  led  by  a  prophet  of  God,  I 
give  you  this  testimony  with  all  my  heart  and  soul,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


.     ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

(Owing  to  the  unavodiable  absence  of  Elder  Roberts  from  the  Confer- 
ence on  Monday  and  Tuesday,  he  was  not  given  an  opportunity  to  speak; 
hence,  on  request  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  this  address,  given  at  an- 
other meeting,  during  the  Conference,  is  here  presented) : 

I  wish  to  say,  my  brethren,  that  I  appreciate,  beyond  any  power 
of  mine  to  express  it,  the  opportunity  afforded  me  to  say  just  a  word 
to  you  at  the  invitation  of  President  Grant.  You  may  be  assured  that 
my  absence  through  two  days  from  the  General  Conference  was  un- 
avoidable. 

THE  MORMON  BATTALION  MONUMENT. 

There  is  one  matter  that  I  think  I  ought  to  mention  here — and 
I  do  so  with  very  great  pleasure — and  that  is,  you  will  remember  that 
at  a  similar  "meeting  to  this,  six  months  ago,  I  was  granted  the  privi- 
lege of  presenting  the  matter  of  making  a  drive  to  raise  the  funds  for 
the  Mormon  Battalion  Monument.  The  State  had  appropriated  $100,- 
000  provided  the  commission  raise  $100,000  from  other  sources.  With 
the  consent  of  President  Grant,  I  presented  the  matter  six  months 
ago.  You  doubtless  remember  the  very  fine  spirit  in  which  that  sub- 
ject was  received  by  you,  and  what  a  very  hearty  response  it  met  with. 
Well,  I  now  have  to  say  to  you  that  in  December  the  State  Com- 
mission made  the  necessary  organization  throughout  the  counties  of 
Utah,  and  throughout  the  stakes  of  Zion,  outside  of  the  counties  of 
Utah,  but  we  have  been  conducting  this  campaign  for  funds  under 
very  discouraging  circumstances.  We  began  right  in  the  midst  of  the 
holiday  season,  and  shortly  after  in  very  many  of  the  communities  the 
"flu"  broke  out  and  hindered  our  work.   In  addition  to  that,  it  seemed 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 


159 


to  me  that  never  before  were  the  people  called  upon  to  meet  so  many 
demands  made  upon  their  generosity,  as  at  that  time.  "Drives,"  four 
and  five  deep,  followed  upon  ours  but'  notwithstanding  all  these  dis- 
advantages, through  the  very  excellent  response  from  the  stakes  of 
Zion,  I,  can  say  to  you  that  the  amount  that  is  now  in  the  banks,  and 
that  which  has  been  reported  to  us,  as  being  in  hand,  but  not  yet  sent 
up  to  our  treasurer, — the  account  being  kept  open  in  the  hope  that 
further  additions  will  be  made, — satisfied  us  that  we  now  have  con- 
tributed, of  this  $100,000,  from  seventy  to  seventy-five  thousand  dol- 
lars ;  and  I  have  not  a  doubt  but  that  we  shall  be  able  to  make  such  ap- 
peal to  those  who  have  not  yet  responded — as  we  think,  to  the  fulness 
of  their  generosity — that  will  easily  make  up  the  remainder  of  that  sum, 
and  that  it  will  be  deposited  with  the  State  treasurer  in  time  to  make 
available  the  State's  appropriation  for  the  monument. 

I  thought  it  was  only  fitting  to  make  this  report  to  you  since  you 
took  so  splendid  a  part,  and  responded  to  the  appeal  with  such  spon- 
taneity, that  you  ought  to  know  the  progress  we  have  made.  We  are 
now  so  near  to  the  top  of  the  hill,  that  I  am  very  sure  we  shall  reach 
the  summit  of  it  splendidly,  and,  in  due  time,  we  shall  be  able  to  com- 
memorate one  of  the  greatest  historical  events  connected  with  our 
pioneer  history,  and  establish  a  monument  of  it  for  all  future  gen- 
erations. 

TESTIMONY. 

Now,  in  relation  to  my  joining  the  rest  of  the  brethren  in  testi- 
mony concerning  God's  great  latter-day  work,  mentioned  by  President 
Grant.  Here,  if  anywhere,  I  feel  entirely  at  home ;  and  I  experience 
the  thrill  that  comes  from  a  consciousness  of  being,  with  you,  one  of 
the  sons  of  God.  With  all  my  heart  and  soul  I  thank  God,  the  eternal 
Father,  that  he  has  given  to  me  a  sure  testimony  of  his  existence,  his 
being,  and  the  kind  of  being  he  is.  For  to  me  he  stands  revealed  through 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord ;  the  Christ,  resurrected  and  immortal,  is  the 
exact  image  and  likeness  of  the  Father's  person;  that  as  the  Son  is, 
so  also  is  the  Father;  and  that  united  with  them  and  bearing  witness 
to  the  children  of  men  of  their  existence,  is  that  personage  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  a  personage  of  spirit,  with  whom  we  may  have  fellow- 
ship, into  whose  fellowship  we  have  been  inducted  by  the  holy  ordi- 
nance of  confirmation,  the  laying  on  of  hands,  by  which  we  have 
access  unto  him  and  the  light  and  intelligence  and  power  and  glory 
that  emanate  from  him;  and  from  the  Father,  and  from  the  Son,  and 
from  the  Holy  Ghost.  Thereby  proceeds  forth  from  these,  to  fill  the 
immensity  of  space,  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God,  in  whom  we  may  live 
and  move  and  have  our  being.  As  we  live  and  move  and  have  our 
being  on  a  summer  day  in  the  glorious  sunshine,  so  in  the  everywhere 
presence  of  God  about  us,  our  souls  may  be  in  touch  and  in  harmony, 
in  union  and  fellowship  with  the  Holy  Trinity,  through  fellowship 
with  the  Holy  Ghost. 

I  rejoice  in  those  great  and  fundamental  truths,  and  I  thank  God 
that  he  has  given  me  a  knowledge  of  these  great  doctrines,  and  the 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


truth  of  the  whole  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  including  a  knowledge  of 
the  truth  of  the  blessed  atonement,  by  which  the  mercy  of  God 
is  introduced  into  the  economy  of  God  with  reference  to  the  human 
race,  making  forgiveness  of  sin  possible,  and  man's  fellowship  with 
God  a  reality  through  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  I  know  that  these 
things  are  true,  for  God  has  given  me  the  witness  of  them.  Looking 
back  over  my  life,  I  may  say  to  you,  though  I  may  at  times  and  in 
part  have  wandered  from  God,  that  is,  I  may  have  displeased  him 
by  the  manifestation  of  my  human  weakness  and  imperfections,  yet 
God  in  his  mercy  has  never  left  me;  and  I  can  speak  of  and  rejoice 
in  the  fellowship  of  God  today,  and  in  the  clearness  of  the  knowledge 
of  God  and  of  these  great  doctrines  of  the  gospel,  I  have  referred  to, 
with  all  my  soul.  I  know  that  God  lives ;  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ ; 
that  the  gospel  is  true ;  that  his  Church  is  established,  no  more  to  be 
destroyed;  that  the  elements  of  preservation  and  continuity  are  in 
it,  and  will  continue,  and  it  will  enlarge;  it  will  grow  stronger;  its 
foundations  are  laid  broad  and  deep,  and  it  will  remain  in  the  earth 
to  function  for  God  in  the  work  of  salvation  for  the  children  of 
men,  its  glory  increasing,  its  power  enlarging,  until  it  shall  deliver 
such  a  message  to  this  world  for  God,  that  it  will  lead  to  the  re- 
demption of  the  human  race.  In  these  things,  my  brethren,  I  rejoice 
with  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

University  of  Utah,  April  6,  1920 

President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
Salt  Lake  City. 

My  dear  President  Grant: — I  have  been  called  this  morning  to 
attend  an  important  meeting  of  the  Board  of  the  State  Industrial 
School  at  Ogden.  I  am  compelled,  therefore,  to  ask  to  be  excused 
from  the  sessions  of  the  conference  today.  I  regret  this  very  much, 
for  I  was  anxious  to  attend  the  meetings,  particularly  on  this  sixth 
day  of  April. 

The  general  theme  of  this  conference  has  been  a  spiritual  uplift 
to  me.  As  the  days  and  years  add  to  my  little  knowledge  of  life,  the 
beauty  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  grows.  The  vision  of  God  the 
Father  and  the  Son  Jesus  Christ  to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  in  the  spring 
of  1820  is  the  one  event  that  has  ushered  in  a  new  period  of  the 
world's  history.  Ancient  days  were  then  left  behind,  and  modern 
days  began.  It  was  the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world  for  God  to 
reveal  himself  to  a  child  whose  mind  was  pure  and  who  had  not 
learned  the  theories  of  philosophy  of  that  day.  I  look  upon  Joseph 
Smith  as  the  greatest  prophet  of  all  history,  for  his  was  the  work  of 
the  greatest  age  of  man's  development  since  the  fall  of  Adam. 

May  we  all  go  forward  with  the  testimony  ringing  in  our  hearts 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world;  that  Joseph  Smith 
is  a  prophet  of  God;  that  the  Priesthood  of  God  has  been  restored; 
that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  record  of  the  fathers  of  the  American 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


161 


Indian  preserved  to  us  for  this  age  by  the  power  of  God ;  and  that 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  been  established 
by  the  divine  power  of  the  Lord. 

May  we  turn  to  the  glorious  doctrines  of  the  resurrection,  and 
give  our  hearts  to  God,  that  he  may  give  us  life  everlasting.  May 
we  each  day  have  God's  holy  blessing,  to  perform  the  duties  of  the 
hour.  As  we  stand  before  the  ever-increasing  responsibilities  of  life, 
may  God  make  us  humble  before  them.  May  we  all  seek  in  our 
hearts  and  minds  the  Divine  Guidance,  that  we  may  learn  the  path 
of  larger  service  and  wider  usefulness.  May  we  serve  the  Master 
by  serving  his  children. 

I  trust,  President  Grant,  that  the  day  may  be  happy  for  you  and 
for  all  assembled  in  divine  worship.  My  heart  is  ever  with  you  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord. 

Sincerely  your  brother, 

Levi  Edgar  Young. 
PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Announced  that  there  were  20  minutes  of  time  left  and  that  he 
desired  to  hear  from  four  brethren  of  the  authorities  who  had  not  yet 
spoken  at  the  conference : 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church) 
I  thought  while  our  Patriarch  was  talking  that  he  had  one  ad- 
vantage over  me,  in  that  this  was  not  the  first  time  he  has  been 
called  upon  to  face  such  a  congregation.  Sunday,  President  Penrose 
stated  that  he  approached  the  task  of  speaking  with  grave  concern.  I 
tried  to  imagine  what  my  feelings  would  be  if  I  should  be  called  upon 
to  occupy  this  position.  I  can  now  assure  you  that  my  imagination 
paints  a  very  poor  picture. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  opportunity  I  have  had 
of  attending  this  conference  and  of  hearing  the  testimonies  that  have 
been  borne  to  us,  and  I  bear  witness  to  you,  this  day,  that  I  approve 
of  all  that  has  been  said,  that  in  my  heart  it  finds  a  lodging  place.  It 
is  not  difficult  for  me  to  know  in  my  soul  that  Joseph  Smith  did, 
in  very  deed,  see  the  Father  and  the  Son.  It  is  not  difficult  for  me  to 
understand  that  he  did,  under  the  hands  of  Peter,  James  and  John, 
receive  the  holy  Priesthood.  You  might  say,  How  do  you  know? 
I  find  an  answer  to  that  when  I  am  called  upon  to  act  under  the 
authority  of  the  Priesthood  which  has  been  conferred  upon  me,  and  I 
lay  my  hands  upon  the  heads  of  the  sick  and  bless  them  by  that  au- 
thority, commanding  disease  to  depart  and  health  to  be  restored,  and 
I  see  the  blessing  almost  instantly  fulfilled.  I  then  know  whence 
that  power  comes,  for  I  have  no  right  in  and  of  myself  to  cast  out 
disease.  When  I  exercise  the  right  which  has  come  to  me  through  the 
Priesthood  to  act  for  God,  who  acknowledges  that  right,  it  is  not  dif- 
ficult for  me  to  understand  these  things. 

Some  time  ago  we  had  a  brother  come  from  the  islands,  away 


162 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


down  in  the  South  Sea.  I  had  the  pleasure  of  taking  him  through 
the  hospital.  I  started  at  the  boiler  room.  He  was  very  much  in- 
terested in  the  mechanical  workings  of  the  institution.  I  showed 
him  the  placing  of  coal  in  the  fire  box,  the  turning  of  the  water  into 
the  boiler,  the  creating  of  steam  through  contact  with  the  heat  and 
water.  I  explained  to  him  how  the  steam,  going  through  a  dynamo, 
produced  electricity,  which  was  carried  into  the  building  on  wires.  He 
could  not  understand  how  that  could  be,  so  I  tried  :to  explain  further. 
I  showed  him  as  we  approached  the  operating  room  the  cotter  iron, 
how  it  became  red  hot  when  the  electricity  was  turned  on.  I  showed 
him  the  electric  light;  the  operation  of  the  elevator,  and  many  other 
things  for  which  electricity  is  being  used.  We  finally  ended  with  the 
ioe  machine.  I  drew  my  hand  along  one  of  the  pipes  and  scraped 
off  some  snow.  As  I  put  it  into  his  hand,  he  looked  at  me  and 
said,  "Take  me  away  quick,  you  are  driving  me  crazy."  He  quit ;  he 
was  unwilling  to  investigate  further.  Had  he  studied  diligently  and 
faithfully  'he  could  have  known  for  himself  how  these  things  were 
done. 

I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  is  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  I  know  that  the  men  who  have  been  chosen  as  leaders  in  Israel 
are  men  of  God,  that  they  have  authority  to  act  for  him,  here  on 
earth,  and  that  they  do  so  act  under  his  guidance  and  his  direction. 
I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  I  have  faith  in  this  work.  I  have  faith 
in  the  gospel,  and  I  know  that  just  so  far  as  I  am  faithful  and  dili- 
gent, exerting  myself  to  keep  him  commandments,  I  will  be  given 
strength  and  ability  to  overcome  evil. 

May  God  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  May  we  be  faithful 
in  this  work,  is  my  prayer  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  thank  the  Lord  that  he  has  given 
me  a  testimony  and  a  knowledge  of  the  truth  of  the  gospel.  During 
this  conference  my  heart  has  been  thrilled  with  the  testimonies  that 
have  been  borne  by  my  brethren.  The  story  of  the  first  vision  of 
the  Prophet,  of  the  visit  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  him,  never  tires 
me.  I  love  to  hear  it,  I  love  to  muse  about  it  .  To  me  it  is  as 
sweet  as  the  story  of  the  birth  of  Jesus  Christ.  When  my  brethren 
testify  to  these  great  truths,  my  soul  is  filled  with  gladness  because 
the  Lord  has  given  me  a  testimony  like  unto  those  that  I  have  listened 
to.  When  we  listen  to  those  who  testify  to  the  divine  mission  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  no  matter  how  humble  their  walks  of  life  may  be,  if  we  are 
attuned  to  the  same  spirit,  our  souls  are  full  of  gladness  because  of 
their  testimonies.  This  is  the  reason  that  when  we  leave  conference 
we  always  say  that  this  has  been  the  best  conference  we  have  ever  had. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


166 


I  thank  my  heavenly  Father  that  I  belong  to  a  Church  that 
has  placed  upon  me  the  duty  of  working  out  my  own  salvation ; 
where  I  can  labor  in  the  cause  of  the  Master;  where  1  can  be  one  of 
the  ministry,  serving  him  and  assisting  to  bring  about  his  purposes 
on  the  earth. 

I  am  glad  to  say  to  you  that  the  Lord  has  given  me  an  assurance 
beyond  doubt  that  this  great  latter  day  work  is  his  work.  He  gave 
me  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  before  I  be- 
came a  member  of  the  Church.  I  remember  in  my  younger  days, 
reading  that  passage  on  the  last  page  but  one,  of  that  wonderful  rec- 
ord which  the  Lord  has  given  to  us,  known  as  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
In  this  passage  he  told  his  servant  that  those  who  would  read  it  in 
faith  with  prayerful  hearts  if  they  would  ask  the  Lord  if  it  was 
true,  it  should  be  manifested  unto  them.  I  need  no  arguments,  nor 
philosophy,  nor  opinions  to  convince  me  of  the  truth  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  The  bringing  forth  of  this  book  was  one  of  the  great 
works  of  the  boy  prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  which  was  brought  forth  to 
the  world  before  he  was  twenty-four  years  of  age.  It  has  stood  the 
test  of  critics,  historians,  and  our  opponents  for  all  these  years.  It 
was  translated  not  by  any  power  of  Joseph  Smith;  he  didn't  claim 
that,  but  rather  through  the  power  and  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  and 
I  hope  my  brethren  and  sisters  will  return  to  the  habit  of  reading 
the  word  of  God  because  this  book,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  contains  the 
fulness  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  that  we  may  go  home  with  renewed  faith, 
may  our  tithes  and  offerings  to  the  Lord  increase.  If  we  want  to  see 
temples  dotting  this  land  of  Zion,  this  choice  land  above  all  other 
lands,  let  us  remember  that  it  can  be  done  by  the  payment  of  our 
tithes  and  offerings.  If  we  want  beautiful  houses  of  worship,  let  us 
pay  our  tithes  and  offerings.  If  we  want  to  be  content  in  this 
land  that  it  shall  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  us,  let  us  pay  our  tithes  and 
offerings.  The  Lord  has  said  to  his  servant,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  that,  "If  my  people  observe  not  this  law  to  keep  it  holy,  and  by 
this  law  sanctify  the  land  of  Zion  unto  me,  that  my  statutes  and 
my  judgments  may  be  kept  thereon,  that  it  may  be  most  holy,  behold, 
verily  I  say  unto  you  it  shall  not  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  you."  Zion  to 
a  Latter-day  Saint  means  peace  and  contentment. 

May  we  go  home  with  a  spirit  of  the  work  of  God  in  our  hearts, 
and  with  a  desire  to  do  better  in  the  future  to  bring  about  his  mighty 
purposes  in  the  earth,  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

(President  of  the  Central  States  Mission) 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  have  never  attended  a  con- 
ference where  more  men  have  borne  testimony  to  the  divine  mission  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the  work  of  the  Lord  than  at  this 
conference.    I  appreciate  the  privilege  that  the  Lord  has  granted  me 


164 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  being  present  at  this  time.  I  know  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  God.  I 
know  that  those  mighty  men  who  followed  him — Brigham  Young, 
John  Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff,  Lorenzo  Snow,  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
have  been,  and  that  Heber  J.  Grant  is  now  divinely  appointed  to  lead 
Israel  in  these  the  last  days  and  that  the  power  of  the  Lord  has  rested 
upon  them  as  leaders  in  Israel ;  that  God  our  eternal  Father  will 
never  forsake  his  people;  that  he  will  continue  to  be  with  those  men 
and  women  who  honor  him  and  keep  his  commandments.  If  they 
serve  him,  he  will  give  everyone  an  individual  testimony  that  they 
may  know  that  he  does  live,  that  he  is  present  among  the  children 
of  men  wherever  his  Priesthood  can  be  found.  I  positively  know  that 
the  Lord  revealed  his  Priesthood  in  these  the  last  days.  I  know  that 
the  words  he  spoke  unto  the  bishop  of  this  Church,  Bishop  Partridge, 
when  he  was  called  to  the  ministry,  are  true : 

Thus  saith  the  Lord  God,  the  Mighty  One  of  Israel,  Behold,  I  say 
unto  you,  my  servant  Edward,  that  you  are  blessed,  and  your  sins  are 
forgiven  you,  and  you  are  called  to  preach  my  gospel  as  with  the  voice  of 
a  trump; 

And  I  will  lay  my  hand  upon  you  by  the  hand  of  my  servant  Sidney 
Rigdon,  and  you  shall  receive  my  Spirit,  the  Holy  Ghost,  even  the  com- 
forter, which  shall  teach  you  the  peaceable  things  of  the  kingdom  (Doc. 
and  Cov.  36:1,  2). 

Lie  laid  his  hands  upon  Bishop  Partridge  by  the  hands  of  his 
servant  Sidney  Rigdon,  and  that  is  the  order  in  this  Church ;  when 
men  are  appointed  and  called  and  chosen  to  act  in  the  name  of  God, 
whether  they  be  serving  as  the  elder  who  travels  abroad  or  the  high 
priest  at  home,  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  calls  and  or- 
dains them  by  his  own  personal  supervision,  as  he  has  organized 
his  Church  here  in  the  earth.  I  pray  God  to  bless  each  and  every 
one  that  we  may  have  the  power  and  spirit  and  desire  to  serve  him  and 
that  we  may  pray  in  our  homes,  and  pray  individually,  that  we  may 
know,  ourselves,  that  God  lives,  and  that  he  rules  and  reigns  in  the 
heavens  above  and  in  the  earth  beneath.  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission) 

In  the  15th  Chapter  of  I  Samuel  we  read:  "Hath  the  Lord 
as  great  delight  in  burnt  offerings  and  sacrifices,  as  in  obeying  the 
voice  of  the  Lord?  Behold,  to  obey  is  better  than  sacrifice,  and  to 
hearken  than  the  fat  of  rams."  It  is  in  pursuit  of  my  calling  as  a  min- 
ister of  the  gospel,  as  a  missionary  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  that 
I  stand  here  in  obedience  to  the  call  that  has  come,  to  bear  my 
testimony. 

To  me  there  is  nothing  in  life  comparable  with  the  feeling,  the 
faith,  the  knowledge  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  true.  To  feel 
and  know  without  a  doubt  that  one  hundred  years  ago  this  spring 


ELDER  WIN  SLOW  FARR  SMITH 


165 


God  in  his  mercy  to  his  children  opened  the  heavens  and  permitted 
the  great  truth  of  his  personality  and  the  truths  of  his  gospel,  his  plan 
of  salvation,  to  be  made  known  to  the  children  of  men,  is  a  real  bless- 
ing. To  me  the  joy  of  working  and  preaching  that  gospel  in  the  world 
is  beyond  anything  earth  offers.  The  joy,  the  satisfaction,  the  great 
pleasure  of  being  a  missionary,  a  bearer  of  his  word  to  the  peoples 
of  the  world,  to  know  the  responsibility  of  working  with  the  young 
men  and  the  young  women  of  Zion  in  preaching  this  great  gospel  mes- 
sage is  a  rare  privilege. 

I  say,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  obey  is  better  than  sacrifice.  It 
is  the  obeying  of  the  call,  not  the  sacrifice  that  is  made,  that  makes 
these  men  and  these  women  mighty.  When  God  gives  a  command, 
that  command  has  a  purpose.  I  read  in  the  holy  scriptures  that, 
"Though  be  were  a  Son,  yet  learned  he  obedience  by  the  things  which 
he  suffered,  and,  being  made  perfect,  he  became  the  Author  of  eternal 
salvation  unto  all  them  that  obey  him." 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  biggest  thing  in  the  world  today. 
A  testimony  of  that  gospel  is  the  most  precious  possession  that  a 
human  soul  can  have.  To  stand  up  and  bear  that  testimony  is  the 
greatest  privilege  that  comes  to  any  Latter-day  Saint.  Unto  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  unto  every  member  of  this  Church  and  especially 
to  those  who  have  been  specifically  designated  to  be  missionaries 
is  the  great  responsibility  of  declaring  to  the  world  that  God  has 
spoken  from  the  heavens  in  these  the  last  days.  There  is  nothing 
under  heaven  to  compare  with  it.  What  is  wealth,  what  is  position, 
what  is  influence,  if  in  gaining  these  things  you  jeopardize  your  place 
with  God?  I  say,  unto  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  this  respon- 
sibility given. 

The  command  has  come  to  you.  You  must  obey,  there  is  no  other 
way  under  heaven  whereby  you  can  be  saved.  There  is  no  other 
name  under  heaven  whereby  you  may  obtain  salvation.  Knowing 
this  to  be  a  fact,  and  being  spurred  on  by  the  testimonies  that  have 
been  borne  during  this  conference,  dare  you  stand  back,  dare  you  let 
the  adversary  conquer  you,  dare  you  let  pass  any  opportunity  to  de- 
clare that  God  has  spoken  from  the  heavens  in  these  the  last  days? 
I  declare  to  you  as  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  as  a  missionary  in  his  great 
cause,  that  nothing  that  you  will  ever  possess  will  give  you  the  satis- 
faction of  retaining,  by  righteous  living,  by  obedience  to  his  law,  by 
obedience  and  respect  to  the  Priesthood,  that  testimony  which  has 
been  given  you,  and  which  has  been  greatly  strengthened  during  this 
conference.   God  bless  you.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  Government  of  the  United  States  is  endeavoring  to  the  very 
best  of  its  ability  to  encourage  the  people  to  be  thrifty  and  to  save.  It 
is  trying  to  overcome  the  wave  of  extravagance  that  at  present 
seems  to  be  sweeping  over  the  country,  notwithstanding  the  high 
cost  of  living. 


166 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


IN  THE  INTEREST  OF  ECONOMY,  NO  LARGE  PARTY  WILL  BE  TAKEN  TO 

THE  SACRED  GROVE. 

We  desire  to  announce  that  the  Church  authorities  are  in  full  ac- 
cord with  this  campaign  of  the  Government  in  favor  of  thrift.  In 
view  of  the  present  conditions  and  of  the  marvelous  and  wonderful 
rendition  of  the  "Vision"  last  night  in  this  building,  the  cantata  by 
Professor  Evan  Stephens,  it  has  been  deemed  wise — in  view  of  the 
immense  amount  that  it  would  cost  to  carry  a  large  number  of  people, 
probably  a  thousand,  judging  from  the  many  applications  that  have 
come  to  us — not  to  take  a  large  party  to  the  Sacred  Grove.  We  feel 
it  would  be  an  expense  that  ought  to  be  avoided ;  and  therefore  only 
a  small  company,  if  any  company  at  all,  will  visit  that  sacred  spot. 

We  had  here"  last  night  the  most  magnificent  audience  that  has 
ever  been  in  this  building  for  any  entertainment  of  any  kind  or  de- 
scription. The  receipts  were  larger,  although  the  admission  was  only 
50c,  than  when  we  have  had  the  world-renowned  artists  of  the  country 
here,  charging  $2  and  $3  admission.  Hundreds,  yes  more  than  a 
thousand,  I  am  sure,  were  turned  away  last  evening. 

THE  "VISION,"  BY  STEPHENS,  TO  BE  REPEATED  IN  JUNE. 

We  expect  to  repeat  "The  Vision"  again  during  the  June  confer- 
ence, and  to  make  that  occasion  as  memorable  as  this  conference.  We 
believe  that  more  good  will  come  from  this  conference  and  from  the 
June  conference  than  by  having  an  excursion  to  the  Sacred  Grove. 

auditors'  report. 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  April  3,  1920. 
To  Heber  J.  Grant,  President;  Anthon  H.  Lund,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
Cunselors,  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Dear 
Brethren: — We,  the  undersigned,  auditors  for  the  Church,  beg 
leave  to  report  that  we  have  examined  and  audited  the  accounts  of 
the  Trustee-in-Trust's  office  and  also  of  the  Presiding  Bishop's  Office, 
for  the  year  1919,  and  we  are  pleased  to  say  we  have  found  all  receipts 
and  expenditures  correctly  entered  in  the  respective  books  of  the  above 
offices,  and  that  all  the  bookkeeping  is  done  in  a  highly  intelligent 
and  scientific  manner. 

With  profound  respect,  we  are, 
W.  W.  Riter, 
John  C.  Cutler, 
Peter  G.  Johnston, 

Auditing  Committee. 
Note :    Heber  Scowcroft  is  absent  from  the  state,  and  Henry  H. 
Rolapp  is  indisposed. — W .  W.  R. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  who  were  voted 
upon  and  unanimously  sustained  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

First  Presidency :    Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator 
and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 


\ 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 


167 


Anthon  H.  Lund,  First  Counslor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Penrose,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
President  of  the  Council  of  Twelve  Apostles:    Anthon  H.  Lund. 
Acting-  President :    Rudger  Clawson. 

Council  of  Twelve  Apostles :  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David 
O.  McKay,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Tal- 
mage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard. 

Presiding  Patriarch  :   Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventy:  Seymour  B.  Young,  Brig- 
ham  H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Presiding  Bishopric :    Charles  W  Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop. 

David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor. 

John  Wells,  Second  Counselor. 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:    Anthon  H.  Lund. 

Assistants :  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  Joseph  Field- 
ing Smith,  A.  William  Lund. 

Church  Board  of  Education:  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
Charles  W.  Penrose,  Willard  Young,  Rudger  Clawson,  Orson  F. 
Whitney,  David  O.  McKay,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman, 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer. 

Trustee-in-Trust :  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Auditing  Committee :  William  W.  Riter,  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  John 
C.  Cutler,  Heber  Scowcroft,  Peter  G.  Johnston. 

Tabernacle  Choir:  Anthony  C.  Lund.  Conductor:  B.  Cecil  Gates, 
Assistant  Conductor;  John  J.  McClellan,  Organist;  Edward  P.  Kim- 
ball and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Assistant  Organists ;  George  C.  Smith,  Sec- 
retary and  Treasurer.   And  all  the  members  of  the  Choir. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  want  to  indorse  with  all  my  heart  the  very  wonderful  testi- 
monies that  have  been  borne  here.  I  want  to  say  that  there  has  been 
a  response  in  my  heart  to  these  marvelous  testimonies.  I  want  to  pay 
my  tribute  of  respect  to  the  splendid  audience  that  was  here  last  night 
and  to  the  wonderful  rendition  of  the  "Vision"  by  the  choir.  I  desire 
to  thank  Professor  Stephens  and  each  and  every  one  of  those  who 
took  part  in  that  very  remarkable  rendition,  and  to  pray  God  to  bless 
them  and  inspire  them,  that  when  it  is  repeated  the  same  wonderful 
spirit  may  be  with  them.  I  am  grateful  for  the  splendid  speech  that 
was  made  here  last  night  upon  the  "Vision,"  brief,  but  to  the  point, 
by  Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard.  I  pray  that  the  spirit  and  inspiration 
of  the  living  God  may  accompany  each  and  every  one  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  their  homes.    It  is  the  spirit  that  giveth  life.    I  re- 


168 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ioiced  in  listening  to  the  testimony  of  our  Patriarch  whose  great 
grandfather  was  the  father  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  of  the 
Patriarch  Hyrum  Smith,  who  lost  their  lives  as  a  testimony  for  the 
divinity  of  this  work. 

My  heart  was  filled  when  I  thought  of  the  missionary  labors 
time  and  time  again  of  John  Henry  Smith,  as  I  listened  to  the  wonder- 
ful five-minute  testimony  of  his  son.  They  say  that  "Mormonism" 
is  dying  out  in  the  second  and  the  third  generations;  but  "Mor- 
monism" is  progressing  and  growing  day  by  day,  year  by  year.  This 
is  no  mushroom  growth  but  it  is  the  growth  of  the  sturdy  oak.  We 
have  in  very  deed  the  truth.  God  lives;  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God  and  he  is  a  prophet  of  God.  He  stands  at 
the  head  of  this  dispensation.  He  did  see  God,  he  did  receive  a 
message  from  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  We  have  the  truth.  May 
God  help  us  to  live  it,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

We  will  now  sing  the  hymn,  "O  My  Father."  The  great  majority 
of  this  audience  I  am  afraid  are  not  acquainted  with  the  old  English 
tune,  by  which  tune  Aunt  Eliza  R.  Snow  said  she  loved  to  hear  her 
hymn  sung,  better  than  any  other.  The  choir  will  lead  us  in  singing 
the  hymn  by  that  tune. 

I  was  once  asked  by  Professor  John  J.  McClellan,  "Why  did  you 
learn  'O  My  Father'  by  the  old  tune  instead  of  the  Moody  and 
Sankey  tune?"  I  said:  "Because  it  is  all  wool  and  a  yard  wide  and 
the  other  is  shoddy."  He  said :  "Had  you  been  a  musician,  you  could 
not  have  made  a  better  criticism." 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "O  my  Father,"  to  the  old 

tune. 

Conference  was  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Bryant  S.  Hinckley  of 
the  Liberty  Stake  of  Zion. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund,  conducted  the  singing  in  the  Taber- 
nacle. Professor  John  J.  McClellan  played  the  accompaniments, 
interludes,  etc.,  on  the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward  P.  Kimball 
and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

The  stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  in  the  Tabernacle 
were  taken  by  Elder  Franklin  W.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Clyde  Ras- 
mussen ;  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  the  Bureau  of  Information  by 
Elder  Frederick  E.  Barker,  and  Fred  G.  Barker. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  Conference. 


INDEX 


Page 


Authorities  Present   1 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   35 

Why  Latter-day  Saints  are  Positive  in  Their  Religious  Decla- 
rations, 35 — The  Glory  of  the  Resurrection  of  Christ,  40 — 
A  Testimony  that  Christ  Arose  from  the  Tomb  and  Lives,  40. 

Ballif,  Elder  Serge  .  .  58 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   163 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   44 

Clawson,  President  Rudger    64 

After  One  Hundred  Years,  64 — Three  Precious  Volumes,  64 — 
Appreciation  of  the  Ogden  Tabernacle  Choir,  66. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   136 

Eternal  and  Temporal  Values,  136 — An  Investment  of  Eternal 
Value,  138 — The  Word  of  Wisdom  as  an  Eternal  Investment, 
139 — Marriage  an  Eternal  Investment,  140. 

Duckworth,  Elder  James   46 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


The  Saints  Absolutely  Sincere,  2 — Disposition  of  Tithing,  2 — 
Revelation  to  Prophet's  brother,  3 — Tribute  to  Latter-day 
Saints,  4 — By  Senator  Smoot,  of  Utah,  4 — A  statement  of  Refu- 
tation, 5 — By  Senator  Ashurst  of  Arizona,  7 — By  Senator 
Thomas,  of  Colorado,  9 — By  Senator  Henderson,  of  Nevada, 
10 — Latter-day  Saints  Work  Against  Destruction  of  Property, 

10 —  Must  respect  rights  of  others,  10 — Progress  in  the  Missions, 

11 —  Respect  Growing  for  our  Church,  12 — Make  Sacrifices  for 
Gospel,  Joseph's  Vision,  13 — Vast  Multitude  have  Testimony, 
14 — Testimony  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  14 — Closing 
Testimony,  IS. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   22 

The  "Era",  and  "The  Vision"  by  Evan  Stephens,  Endorsed,  23 
— Statistical  Announcements,  23 — In  Memory  of  Richard  V/. 
Young,  23 — In  Memory  of  Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe,  24 — They 


Gave  Their  Lives  for  Service  to  the  People,  25.  . 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   145 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  .161,  165 

In  the  Interest  of  Economy,  No  Large  Party  will  be  taken  to 
the  Grove,  166 — "The  Vision"  to  be  Repeated  in  June,  166 — 
Auditor's  Report,  166. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   166 

General  Authorities  Sustained.  166 — Closing  Remarks,  167. 
Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   140 


How  Evidence  is  Measured,  140 — The  Testimony  of  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet,  142 — Improbability  of  Supernatural  Events, 
142 — Futility  of  Accounting  for  "Mormonism"  on  the  Ground 
of  Wilful  Imposture,  143. 

Iverson,  Elder  Heber  C   83 

Ivins,  Elder  Anthony  W  o   109 

One  Hundred  Years  of  the  Last  Gospel  Dispensation,  109 — 
The  Dispensation  of  the  Meridian  of  Time,  and  the  Fulness  of 
Time  Compared,  109— The  Primitive  Church  and  the  Church  of 


170 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


our  Day  Have  Had  Analogous  Experiences,  111— The  Con- 
dition of  the  Primtive  Church  on  this  Continent,  112— Our 
Accomplishments  Compared  with  Those  of  the  Nephites.  113 
—We  may  Look,  with  Confidence  and  Faith,  to  the  Future, 
113. 

Jack,  Elder  William  T  

Jensen,  Elder  Nephi   

Jenson,  Elder  Andrew  

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A  

Knight,  Elder  John  M  ,  

Lee,  Elder  Norman  S  

Lund,  President  Anthon  H  

The  Latter-day  Saints  Not  Recognized  by  the  World  as  Chris- 
tians, 16 — The  Saints  Believe  Sincerely  in  Jesus  Christ  and  Try 
to  Obey  the  Commandments  of  God,  16 — The  Saints  Enjoined 
to  Attend  Sacramental  Meetings,  17 — The  Lord  Blesses  Those 
Who  Pay  an  Honest  Tithing,  17 — Warning  Against  Following 
False  Teachers,  18 — Thoughts  on  the  First  Vision  and  What 
Followed,  18 — The  Second  Vision  and  Vicarious  Work  for  the 
Dead,  20 — The  Resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ,  21 — The  Saints 
Warned  to  be  Faithful  to  the  End,  22. 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R  

What  is  the  Power  Behind  the  Church?  41 — Examples  of  this 
Power,  42 — How  May  We  Know  the  Truth?  43 — Missionaries 
Learn  the  Truth  Through  Service,  43. 

McKay,  Elder  David  O  

An  Ensign  to  the  Nations,  114 — To  Whom  Does  the  Ensign 
now  Wave?  115 — Many  Honest  Seeking  for  Truth  but  Cannot 
Find  It,  115— Where  the  Truth  May  be  Found,  116— An  Emi- 
nent Statesman's  Suggestion,  116— Helpful  Environment  in 
the  Church  of  Christ,  117 — Another  Example — Helping  the 
Poor,  117 — "Mormonism" — The  Application  of  God's  Plan  to 
Solve  World  Problems,  118. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W  

Miller,  Elder  Uriah  G  

Nibley,  Elder  Charles  W  

A  Wonderful  Attendance  of  Men,  124 — The  Centennial  of  a 
Great  Event,  124 — What  are  the  Fruits  of  "Mormonism"? 
125 — The  Missionary  System  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  125 — 
The  Results  of  the  "Mormon"  Colonization  Policy,  126 — A  - 
Vitality  in  "Mormonism"  not  Found  Elsewhere,  127 — The 
Latter-day  Saints  is  Multiplying  and  Replenishing  the  Earth, 
128 — Entertainment  and  Organ  Recitals  Free,  128 — Honesty 
and  Loyalty  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  128 — The  Church  is 
Thoughtful  of  the  Poor,  130— The  Spirit  that  Impels  to  Sac- 
rifice and  Work,  130 — The  Tree  of  "Mormonism"  Has  Borne 
Good  Fruit,  Not  Bad,  131. 

Penrose,  President  Charles  W  

The  Ch  urch  of  Christ  Shall  Prevail,  26 — The  Vision  of  Joseph, 

27 —  All  Things  to  be  Done  in  the  Name  of  Jesus  Christ, 

28 —  Jehovah  of  the  Old  Testament  is  Jesus  Christ  of  the 
New,  30— The  Trinity,  Three  Distinct  Personalities,  30 — What 
is  Truth?  30 — The  Nature  and  Resurrection  of  Christ,  31 — 
Thanks  be  to  God  for  the  Gift  of  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  33 — 
The  Glory  Awaiting  the  Righteous,  34 — Closing  Injunction  to 
Faihtfulness,  34. 


INDEX 


171 


Page 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   87 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   96 

Health,  96— Wealth,  97— Social  Order,  97— Government,  98— 
Happiness,  98 — Understanding  the  All-comprehending  nature 
of  the  Gospel,  What  is  our  Duty?  99- — Our  Message  to  the 
World,  99. 

Richards,  Elder  Geo.  F   132 

Our  Anniversary  Celebration  Impressive  and  Glorious,  132 — 
Significance  of  Joseph's  Great  Vision,  133 — The  Accomplish- 
ments of  Joseph  an  Evidence  of  the  Divinity  of  His  calling, 
135. 

Roberts,  Elder  B.  H   158 

The  Mormon  Battalion  Monument,  158 — Testimony,  159 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   161 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G   150 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   105 

A  Scripture  Passage  Applied  to  Joseph  the  Prophet,  105 — 
Joseph  Smith,  the  Messenger  to  Prepare  the  Way  for  the 
Second  Coming  of  Christ,  105 — Joseph  Smith  Fulfils  the  Pre- 
diction of  the  Prophets  and  the  Requirements  of  the  Fore 
runner  of  Christ,  107. 

Smith,  Elder  Winslow  Farr   164 

Sperry,  Patriarch  Harrison   145 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E   100 

The  Church  a  Unique  Organization.  Not  Sectarian,  100 — Tol- 
eration Does  Not  Imply  Acceptance,  101 — Centennial  of  a  Glo- 
rious Manifestation,  IC'1 — The  Eternal  Father  and  Jesus  Christ 
Appeared  in  Bodily  Presence,  101— The  Churches  of  the  Day 
Had  Gone  Astray,  102 — The  Current  Movement  for  Church 
Union,  103 — This  Church  Cannot  be  a  Party  to  Tt,  104. 

Wells,  Elder  John   162 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S  152 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   119 

The  True  and  Living  God,  119— The  Father's  "Express  Im- 
age", 120 — The  Christian,  Deity.  120 — Divinity  and  its  Emana- 
tion,  121— Joseph's  Vision,   121— What   Constitutes  Idolatry, 

121— The   Final   Dispensation,  122 — Not  an  Accident,  122  

Prophet  and  Seer,  123— The  World's  Saturday  Night,  123  

House-cleaning-  in  Progress,  123. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   160 

Young,  Elder  Seymour  B  ;   155 


AVE  you  ever  stopped  to  think  how  much  time 
^  *  we  spend  in  planning  what  we  shall  put  on 
(^  and  what  we  shall  put  in  our  children's  bodies 

 |Qr   and  how  little  in  planning  what  we  shall  put 

in  their  minds?  They  go  to  school,  to  be  sure, 


but  that  is  for  only  five  hours  a  day  for  approximately  185 
days  a  year.  What  of  the  years  before  they  begin  to  go  to 
school,  what  of  the  hours  and  days  each  year  in  which  they 
are  not  under  instruction?  Have  wei  any  deliberate  plans 
to  care  for  the  mind's  growth  as  we  care  for  the  body's? 

It  is  just  as  important  that  children  shall  read  good" 
books  as  it  is  that  they  shall  learn  to  read  at  all.  It  would 
be  hard  to  find  any  one  who  would  declare  that  it  is  un- 
necessary for  children  to  learn  to  read.  Yet  reading  in  it- 
self is  not  the  end  we  seek,  but  only  a  means  to  the  end. 
The  goal  of  all  education  is  the  enrichment  of  life,  and  a 
child's  reading  carefully  guided  will  deepen  and  strengthen 
his  future  ability  to  make  the  most  of  himself  and  his  op- 
portunities. 

To  really  love  books  so  that  they  may  be  woven  into 
the  warp  and  woof  of  his  life  a  child  should  have  his  own 
individual  library,  which  grows  year  by  year  with  his 
growth,  yet  which  contains  friends  to  whom  he  will  return 
time  and  time  again,  secure  in  the  knowledge  of  a  happy 
companionship,  full  of  pleasant  associations.  A  large  num- 
ber of  books  is  not  esesntial  to  have,  but  a  few  should  be 
added  each  year  and  the  standard  of  choice  should  be  kept 
high. — Seattle  Public  Library  Bulletin. 


Let  us  help  you  select  books  for  your  children. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 
6  Main  Street 


Centenary  of  the  First  Vision 

This  year  as  never  before  in  Church  history  the  saints 
are  eagerly  reading  books  on  the  life  and  labors  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.    It  is  the  hundredth  anniversary 
of  the  most  epochal  event  in  history — save  one. 

We  have  listed  a  few  of  the  best  of  these  Books  that 
we  recommend  for  cursory  or  systematic  reading. 

THE  LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH,  by  President  Geo. 
Q.  Cannon. 

Cloth    2.00 

THE  LATTER-DAY  PROPHET.  History  of  Joseph 
Smith,  written  for  young  people,  by  Pres.  George 
Q.  Cannon,  Illustrated. 

Cloth   75 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  THE  PROPHET-TEACHER,  by 

Elder  B.  H.  Roberts  75 

JOSEPH  SMITH  AS  SCIENTIST,  by  Dr.  John  A. 

Widtsoe.    Cloth    .75 

BRIEF  HISTORY  OF  THE  PROPHET,  by  himself, 

Cloth,  fm.  A.  Morton  25 

"MORMON  PROPHET'S  TRAGEDY,"  a  review  of 
an  article  by  the  late  John  Hay — the  review  by 

Orson  F.  Whitney,  paper   .25 

JOSEPH  SMITH  MEMORIAL.  Detailed  account  of 
the  journey  and  visits  of  the  Centennial  Memor- 
ial Party  to  Vermont. 

Paper  25 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  TEACHINGS,  a  classified  ar- 
rangement of  the  doctrinal  sermons  and  writings 
of  the  Great  Latter-day  Prophet,  compiled  by 
Edwin  F.  Parry. 

Cloth,  with  gold  title   75 

THE  VISION.    A  Sacred  Historical  Cantata.  Words 
and  music  by  Prof.  Evan  Stephens. 

Price,  each  postpaid   „   1.00 

Special  rates  on  quantities  to  Choirs  and  Dealers. 

PROPHECIES  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  AND  THEIR 
FULFILMENT,  by  Nephi  L.  Morris  (Now  being 
prepared.) 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 
6  Main  Street 


