Oct© 

i 

Id 


I 


SEVENTY-FOURTH  SEMI-ANNUAL 


CONFERENCE 


OF  THE 


Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 


i 


H 
m 

i 


SB 

m 


1 

1 

1 
1 

I 
1 

I 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  October  4th,  5th  and 
6th,  1903,  with  a  full  Report  of  the  Discourses. 


ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFERENCE  OF  THE 
DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION, 


The  Deseret  News 
J  903 


92  ESTABLISHED   1850.  INCORPORATED   1893.  92 

|  Pioneer  |}ur$erie$  Company  1 

111   GROWERS  OF   ffl 

|  I 

I  Bigb  Grade  nursery  Stock  | 

ft  fiardy  trees,  Plants,  Shrubs,  ana  Roses 

%  — 

p5  new  catalogue  sent  free  on  request  to 

gj  LOCAL  AND  TRAVELING  AGENTS  WANTED  «3 


m 
m 

OFFICE,   80  COMMERCIAL  BLOCK.  SALT  LAKE  CITY,   UTAH  £j| 

^B^BBBBBBB^BSB^BBB^Bm^^Sasasa^H^aS&Ha^m 


i  i 

I  We  have  first-class  | 
I      ORGANS  for  M 


E  & 

9  9 

I  t  $58.2  | 

ffl      PR 

gj  Daynes  &  Romney  Piano  Co*  1 

jrjjj  THE  MONEY-BACK  PIANO  HOUSE. 

m  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.                                      40  Richards  Street  f§ 

ft  P4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Seventy-fourth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened, 
in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  at  10 
a.  m.,  on  Oct.  4th,  1903,  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  presiding. 

THE  PROCEEDINGS. 

There  were  present  ot  the  general 
authorities:  Of  the  First  Presidency, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  R.  Winder  and 
Anthon  H.  Lund.  Of  the  Council  of 
Twelve  Apostles:  John  Henry  Smith, 
George  Teasdale.  Heber  J.  Grant, 
John  W.  Taylor,  Matthias  F.  Cowley, 
Abraham  O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Claw- 
son,  Reed  Smoot  and  Hyrum  M.  Smith; 
Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church, 
John  Smith;  First  Seven  Presidents  of 
Seventies:  Seymour  B.  Young, 
Brigham  H.  Roberts,  George  Rey- 
nolds, Jonathan  G  .  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMur- 
rin;  of  the  presiding  Bishopric,  Wil- 
liam B.  Preston,  Robert  T.  Burton  and 
Orrin  P.  Miller.  There  were  likewise 
a  large  number  of  presidents  of  stakes 
their  counselors,  presidents  of  missions 
and  other  leading  men  of  the  Priest- 
hood. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins: 

"Sweetly  may  the  blessed  Spirit 

On  each  faithful  bosom  shine; 
May  we  every  grace  inherit; 

Lord,  we  seek  a  boon  divine." 


The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Charles  W.  Penrose. 
The  choir  sang: 

"May  we,  who  know  the  joyful  sound, 
Still  practise  what  we  know; 

Not  hearers  of  the  word  alone, 
But  doers  of  it.  too." 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

OPENING  ADDRESS. 

J  attar-day  Saints  should  work  in  harmony — Ol'edl- 
ence  to  the  Gospel  makes  man  free — Progress 
of  the  community — Instructions  about  coloni- 
zation— Division  of  Stakes — Prosperous  Con- 
dition of  missions — Recent  prosperity — Trades 
versus  professions  for  the  young — Educational 
Interests — Suggestions  to  parents  in  the  train- 
ing of  children. 

I  am  gratified  to  see  the  large  at- 
tendance present  at  the  opening  of  this 
semi-annual  conference,  and  I  sincere- 
ly hope  that  throughout  the  sessions 
our  people  may  continue  to  attend  and 
participate  in  whatever  duties  or  la- 
bors may  be  necessary  to  be  performed 
during  this  conference  . 

I  would  like  all  Latter-day  Saints 
to  feel  in  their  hearts  that  the  work  in 
which  they  are  engaged  is  not  only  the 
work  that  God  has  instituted  in  the  lat- 
ter days,  but  that  it  is  a  work  in  which 
each  individual  member  of  the  Church 
is  deeply  and  vitally  interested.  Every 
man  and  every  woman  should  feel  a 
deep  and  abiding  interest  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  in  the  growth  and 
development  of  the  great  latter-day 
cause,  which  cause  is  intended  for  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


redemption  of  all  men  from  the  pow- 
ers of  sin.  from  all  its  contaminating 
effects,  for  the  redemption  of  man  from 
his  own  weakness  and  ignorance,  and 
from  the  grasp  that  Satan  holds  upon 
the  world,  that  men  may  be  made  free; 
for  no  man  is  or  can  be  made  free 
without  possessing  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth  and  obeying  the  same.  It  is  only 
the  possession  and  observance  of  the 
truth  that  can  make  men  free,  and  all 
those  who  do  not  possess  and  obey  it 
are  slaves  and  not  freemen. 

It  is  only  by  obedience  to  the  laws 
of  God.  that  men  can  rise  above  the 
petty  weaknesses  of  mortality  and  exer- 
cise that  breadth  of  affection,  that 
charity  and  love,  that  should  actuate 
the  hearts  and  the  motives  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  The  Gospel  as  it  has  been 
restored  is  intended  to  make  men  free 
indeed,  free  to  choose  the  good  and  to 
forsake  the  evil,  free  to  exercise  that 
boldness  in  their  choice  of  that  which 
is  good,  by  which  they  will  not  shrink 
from  doing  that  which  they  are  con- 
vinced is  right,  notwithstanding  the 
great  majority  of  the  people  of  the 
world  may  point  at  them  the  finger 
of  scorn  and  ridicule.  It  requires  no 
especial  bravery  on  the  part  of  men 
to  swim  with  the  currents  of  the  world. 
"When  a  man  makes  up  his  mind  to 
forsake  the  world  and  its  follies  and 
sins,  and  identify  himself  with  God's 
people,  who  are  everywhere  spoken 
evil  of,  it  takes  courage,  manhood,  in- 
dependence of  character,  superior  in- 
telligence, and  a  determination  that  is 
not  common  among  men;  for  men 
shrink  from  that  which  is  unpopular, 
from  that  which  will  not  bring  them 
praise  and  adulation,  from  that  which 
will  in  any  degree  tarnish  that  which 
they  call  honor  or  a  good  name. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  people 
who  have  been  and  are  still  familiar 
with  the  ways  of  the  world.  They 
have  been  gathered  from  nearly  all  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  and  were  former- 
ly associated  with  the  various  religious 
denominations  extant.  Hence  they  are 
familiar  with  the  various  religious 
creeds  existing  in  the  world,  and  they 
have  had  the  courage,  in  the  face  of 
all  the  opposition  that  they  have  had 


to  meet,  and  the  contumely  that  has 
been  heaped  upon  them,  to  forsake 
their  former  creeds,  to  sever  their  for- 
mer ties  and  relationships,  and  to  for- 
sake their  kindred,  their  homes,  and 
everything  that  they  have  held  dear, 
for  the  Gospel's  sake;  and  they  are  not 
cowards;  they  are  not  slaves;  they  are 
not  bondsmen,  but  they  are  freemen, 
because  the  Gospel  has  made  them 
free.  It  is  a  knowledge  of  these  things 
that  will  make  a  member  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  an 
entity  in  the  Church  to  which  he  be- 
longs— a  living  factor,  an  active  partici- 
pator in  the  cause  in  which  he  is  en- 
gaged; one  who  feels,  deep  down  in  his 
soul,  the  truth  of  the  Gospel;  and  the 
love  of  it  moves  him  to  works  of 
righteousness  and  causes  him  to  desire 
to  become  more  and  more  united  with 
those  who  are  seeking  to  bring  to  pass 
the  establishment  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  and  a  reign  of  righteousness,  that 
wickedness  may  be  destroyed  and  truth 
prevail  from  sea  to  sea. 

It  was  not  and  is  not  my  intention 
to  speak  long  this  morning.  I  desired 
to  make  a  few  opening  remarks  at  this 
conference,  and  the  thought  that  seem- 
ed to  be  impressed  upon  my  mind  was 
that  every  Latter-day  Saint  here  to- 
day should  be  here  tomorrow,  and 
should  continue  to  attend  this  confer- 
ence until  it  shall  conclude  on  the  6th 
of  this  month,  which  is  the  semi-anni- 
versary of  the  establishment  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  in  the  latter  days.  I  would  like 
all  to  feel  that  interest  in  this  work 
and  the  duties  and  responsibilities  that 
rest  upon  them  during  this  conference, 
that  they  will  be  prompt  in  attending 
here,  as  they  have  been  today.  I  felt 
that  it  would  be  useless  for  me  to  speak 
of  this  tomorrow,  when  it  is  possible 
that  many  might  be  absent,  attending 
to  business  or  pleasure.  I  take  this 
occasion,  therefore,  while  all  are  here 
to  hear  my  voice  and  the  voices  of  those 
who  shall  follow  me,  that  you  may 
know  what  we  desire,  and  that  you 
may  feel  prompted  in  your  hearts  to 
carry  out  this  desire. 

I  desire  to  say  to  this  congregation 
that  the  work  of  the  Lord,  to  the  best 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


3 


of  my  knowledge,  has  continued  to 
grow  and  spread  since  our  conference 
last  April.  I  can  see  no  evidence  of 
weakness,  or  of  weakening  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Everywhere  that 
I  have  had  the  pleasure  and  opportun- 
ity of  traveling  to  visit  the  people  we 
have  found  them  earnest  in  their  work, 
earnest  in  their  faith,  earnest  in  their 
devotion  to  the  cause  of  God  in  the 
earth,  and  living  according  to  the 
knowledge  that  they  possess,  agree- 
able to  the  will  of  the  Father,  as  it  has 
been  made  known  to  them. 

There  have  been  great  improvements. 
We  have  built,  completed  and  dedicat- 
ed many  houses  of  worship  throughout 
the  various  stakes  of  Zion  during  the 
six  months  that  have  passed.  There 
are  many  more  in  course  of  erection, 
and  many  will  no  doubt  be  completed 
and  dedicated  and  ready  for  the  ser- 
vice of  the  people  before  we  shall  as- 
semble again  six  months  hence. 

The  stakes  of  Zion  continue  to  in- 
crease in  numbers  and  in  strength, 
save,  perhaps  in  the  larger  cities.  We 
find  that  there  is  a  disposition  on  the 
part  of  some  of  our  people  to  desert 
the  cities  and  those  parts  of  the  state 
that  are  more  densely  settled,  and  they 
arie  spreading  out  into  newer  countries 
and  building  up  other  settlements  and 
other  stakes  of  Zion.  While  we  feel 
that  this  is  a  necessity,  to  a  great  ex- 
tent, we  also  fetel  that  it  is  unwise 
for  our  people  to  scatter  abroad  or  leave 
their  present  homes,  except  when  it 
becomes  absolutely  necessary  for  them 
to  do  so  for  their  own  good  and  for  the 
good  of  their  increasing  families.  And 
yet,  we  would  advise  such  as  have  no 
homes,  say  in  Salt  Lake,  or  in  Ogden, 
or  in  the  larger  towns  and  cities  of  our 
state,  and  who  have  no  prospects  of 
ever  being  able  to  obtain  homes  for 
themselves  in  these  more  crowded  cen- 
ters— to  turn  their  eyes  and  their  course 
toward  the  newer  settlements,  where 
they  may  have  the  privilege  of  obtain- 
ing homesteads  and  building  up  homes 
for  themselves  and  their  children. 
When  you  do  this  we  would  advise  you 
to  move  under  the  direction  and  coun- 
sel of  those  who  have  these  matters  in 


charge,  that  instead  of  scattering 
abroad  you  may  gather  abroad  and  es- 
tablish yourselves  in  communities 
where  you  can  have  the  advantages  of 
schools,  of  meetings',  of  Mutual  Im- 
provement associations,  and  of  all  the 
other  auxiliary  organizations  of  the 
Church,  and  where  you  will  ble  able  to 
associate  together  in  a  community  for 
self-protection  and  for  self-culture  and 
advancement  in  all  that  is  good.  We 
find  that  it  is  not  those  who  desire  the 
welfare  of  Zion  who  are  disposed  to 
scatter  abroad;  those  who  love  the 
truth  and  who  are  interested  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord  are  always  desirous 
of  being  associated  with  the  Saints, 
wherever  they  may  choose  to  locate. 

We  have  been  under  the  necessity  of 
dividing  the  Alberta  stake  of  Zion,  be- 
cause it  had  grown  to  such  dimensions 
that  it  was  a  very  great  burdjen  upon 
the  presidency  of  the  stake,  in  its  undi- 
vided condition,  to  attend  to  all  the  du- 
ties that  devolved  upon  them  and  to 
visit  all  the  people.  Th(ey  had  grown 
until  they  had  spread  for  a  hundred 
miles  or  more  from  one  point  to  the 
other.  We  divided  it  recently,  making 
two  stakes  out  of  the  one.  There  are 
other  stakes  that  are  growing,  and  we 
have  already  had  appeals  from  the  peo- 
ple and  those  who  are  in  charge  to  es- 
tablish other  stakes  out  of  the  present 
existing  ones,  because  of  the  increase 
of  the  people  and  the  extent  of  those 
stakes;  and  in  the  near  future  it  will 
be  necessary,  no  doubt,  to  make  other 
divisions  of  stakes  in  order  that  the 
people  may  be  visited  by  their  presiding 
officers  and  all  may  be  kept  in  touch 
with  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  and  the 
work  of  the  Lord. 

Our  missions  are  almost  universally 
in  a  prosperous  condition.  The  work  is 
progressing  in  Europe  and  upon 
the  islands  of  the  sea.  There  has  been 
some  little  difficulty  in  the  German 
mission,  of  late,  but  matters  there  have 
quieted  down  and  our  Elders  continue 
to  prosecute  their  labors  there  as  they 
are  doing  in  other  missionary  fields. 
We  have  succeeded  in  completing  and 
dedicating  a  very  commodious  and  ap- 
propriate building  in  the  city  of  Copen- 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hagen,  and  also  in  Christiania,  Norway, 
since  the  last  conference,  thus  giving 
to  these  missions  a  permanency  that 
they  have  not  enjoyed  to  the  same  ex- 
tent in  the  years  that  have  gone  by. 
Other  meetinghouses  for  our  people  in 
other  missions  are  in  contemplation, 
and,  perhaps,  in  the  near  future  we 
may  have  headquarters  for  our  Elders, 
and  a  meetinghouse,  or  church,  if  you 
please  to  call  it  that,  in  other  mission 
fields,  where  we  can  advertise  our 
name  and  our  principles,  and  where  we 
can  have  a  permanent  foothold  and  ex- 
hibit our  works  to  those  who  are  in- 
quiring after  the  truth,  and  not  leave 
the  people,  as  in  years  gone  by,  under 
the  impression  that  we  are  constantly 
on  the  wing' in  these  distant  lands, 
having  no  permanent  abiding  places 
there.  Our  mission  in  Great  Britain, 
for  instance,  has  continued  for  the 
last  60  years  or  more,  and  yet  we  have 
never  attempted  to  build  houses  of 
worship  there,  and  many  of  the  peo- 
ple have  supposed  that  our  work  there 
was  only  temporary.  But  we  desire  it 
distinctly  understood  that  "Mormon- 
ism,"  as  it  is  called,  has  come  to  the 
world  to  stay.  We  expect  to  proclaim 
this  Gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth 
until  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and 
people  shall  have  the  privilege  of  hear- 
ing the  sound  thereof  and  the  voices  of 
the  servants  of  God,  lifted  up  in  warn- 
ing and  in  testimony  to  them  that 
judgments  will  come  upon  the  world 
and  that  righteousness  has  been  made 
known  and  proclaimed  from  the  heav- 
ens in  the  latter  day. 

We  have  unfortunately  lost  some 
three  or  four  of  our  Elders,  by  the 
hand  of  death,  in  the  mission  field. 
We  regret  this  very  much,  and  we  are 
impressed  with  the  thought  that  it  is 
largely  due,  in  some  instances  at  least, 
to  the  lack  of  caution  and  proper  care 
on  the  part  of  the  Elders  themselves. 
I  shall  be  most  thankful  and  happy  my- 
self if  after  I  have  done  all  that  I  have 
the  power  and  wisdom  to  do  for  my 
own  protection,  the  Lord  will  preserve 
me  by  His  power.  Still  I  will  give  to 
Him  the  honor  and  the  glory  for  all. 
If  a  man  receives  wisdom  to  guard 


himself  against  evil  and  dangers,  it  is 
because  God  has  bestowed  the  gift  of 
wisdom  upon  him.  It  is  said  that  faith 
is  a  gift  of  God,  and  so  it  is;  but  faith 
does  not  come  without  works;  faith 
does  not  come  without  obedience  to  the 
commandments  of  God.  Men  do  not 
receive  the  gift  of  faith,  nor  the  gift  of 
wisdom,  nor  the  gift  of  understanding, 
nor  a  testimony  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Living  God  in  their  hearts,  without 
they  seek  for  it.  The  principle  is: 
Thou  shalt  knock  and  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  thee;  thou  shalt  ask  and  receive; 
thou  shalt  seek  if  thou  wilt  find;  and 
if  you  want  wisdom,  ask  for  it,  as 
Solomon  did;  if  you  want  knowledge 
and  the  testimony  of  the  spirit  in  your 
hearts,  seek  for  it  earnestly.  Put  your- 
self in  a  position  whereby  you  will  be 
worthy  to  receive  it,  then  it  will  come 
to  you  as  a  gift  of  God,  and  His  name 
should  be  praised  for  the  same. 

I  am  grieved  to  say  to  this  congre- 
gation—and yet  perhaps  I  should  not 
express  myself  so— that  since  our  last 
conference  we  have  been  deprived  of 
the  presence,  counsel  and  influence  of 
one  of  our  beloved  brethren,  one  of 
the  Twelve,  President  Brigham  Young. 
Of  course  you  are  all  aware  of  this, 
still  I  mention  it  here  that  you  may 
know  that  we  do  not  forget  those  with 
whom  we  have  been  associated  in 
life  from  boyhood  to  old  ag)e,  those, 
especially  who  have  been  faithful  in 
all  their  callings  and  in  the  missions  to 
which  they  have  been  appointed.  We 
revere  thleir  memory  and  we  regret 
their  absence  from  us  today. 

I  am  delighted  with  the  return  and 
presence  of  Brother  Heber  J.  Grant 
from  Japan.  He  has  been  honorably 
released  from  that  mission  to  return 
and  to  resume  his  labors  here,  or  else- 
where, as  he  may  be  called  and  ap- 
pointed. Brother  Horace  S.  Ensign 
has  been  placed  in  charge  of  the 
Japan  mission.  Those  who  were  labor- 
ing with  him  there  are  faithful,  devot- 
ed, young  men;  but  Brother  Heber  can 
speak  of  them  more  fully  than  it  is 
possible  perhaps  for  me  to  do. 

There  are  many  subjects,  which 
should,    perhaps,   be   dwelt   upon  and 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  P.  SMITH. 


5 


thought  of  during  this  conference.  I 
desire  to  renew,  in  brief,  what  I  said 
to  you  six  months  ago.  Notwithstand- 
ing we  have  had  six  months  more  of 
prosplerity  in  the  land — our  crops  have 
been  unusually  good  this  year,  and  the 
labor  of  the     husbandman     has  been 
crowned  with  abundant  harvests — yet, 
while  prosperity  has  abounded  through- 
out the  length  and  breadth  of  the  land 
of  Zion,  I  want  to  tell  you  that  there 
has  not    been    so     much  prosperity 
abroad.    "We  frequently  hear  of  finan- 
cial failures  and  difficulties.     We  hear 
of  labor  troubles  in  various  parts  of 
our  land,  and  of  wars  and  rumors  of 
wars;  but  here  in  the  midst  of  these 
mountain  valleys,  inhabited  by  Latter- 
day  Saints,  the  Lord  has  given  us  peace 
and  has  made  us  secure.   Our  business 
relations  are  healthy;  our  business  in- 
stitutions arte  prosperous,    and  every- 
thing looks  promising      for  the  future; 
but,    notwithstanding    the  promising 
outlook  that  we  behold,    I  desire  that 
my  brethren  and  sisters  will  not  be- 
come over-confident  in  this  condition 
of  affairs.    I  tell  you  that  it  is  better 
for  us  to  bie  out  of  debt,  free  from  ob- 
ligations and  mortgages,  than  it  is  for 
us  to  have  mortgages  plastered  upon 
our  homes,  or  upon  our  farms,  or  upon 
our  stocks,  or  anything  that  we  pos- 
sess in  the  shape  of  values.   I  again  ad- 
monish the  Latter-day  Saints  to  aim 
and  diligently  endeavor  to  free  them- 
selves from  debt.     Get  out  of  debt  and 
keep  out  of  debt,  and  fhen  you  will  be 
financially  as  well  as  spiritually  free. 

I  desire  again  to  say  that  I  would 
be  pleased  to  see  more  of  our  young 
men  learning  trades  instead  of  trying 
to  learn  professions,  such  as  the  pro- 
fession of  the  law,  or  of  medicine  or 
other  professions.  I  would  rather  a 
man  would  become  a  good  mechanic, 
a  good  builder,  a  good  machinist,  a 
good  surveyor,  a  good  farmer,  a  good 
blacksmith,  or  a  good  artisan  of  any 
kind  than  to  see  him  follow  these  oth- 
er kinds  of  professions.  We  need,  how- 
ever, those  who  are  capable  of  teach- 
ing in  the  school,  and  I  would  like  to 
see  a  greater  interest  manifested  by  our 
young  men  and  women  in  normal  train- 


ing, that  they  might  become  pro- 
ficient teachers  and  look  forward  to  fol- 
lowing, this  profession,  because  it  is  a 
most  important  one,  and  great  results 
will  follow  the  faithful  performance  of 
the  duties  and  labors  of  those  who  are 
engaged  in  it.  The  training  of  our 
young,  the  giving  of  proper  instruction 
to  those  who  are  seeking  education,  and 
creating  facilities  in  our  midst  for  all 
who  desire  not  only  the  common 
branches  of  education,  but  the  higher 
branches;  that  they  may  obtain  these 
privileges  and  benefits  at  home  instead 
of  being  compelled  to  go  abroad  to 
complete  their  education. 

Some  of  our  friends  took  very  griev- 
ous offense  at  what  I  said  in  respect  to 
some  of  these  things  last  April,  I  be- 
lieve.   I  was  sorry  to  hear  what  they 
said  in  relation  to  this.  Why,  bless  your 
soul,  the  counsel  that  I  gave  last  April 
in  relation  to  these  matters  was  in  the 
interest  of  all  parties  and  of  all  pro- 
fessions.  I  did  not  speak  a  disrespect- 
ful word  of  any  profession,    i  simply 
advised,  and  I  still  advise,  the  young 
men  of  Zion  to  become  artisans  rather 
than  to  become  lawyers.    I  repeat  It; 
and  yet  I  would  to  God  that  every  in- 
telligent man  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  was  able  to  read  law  and  to  be 
his  own  lawyer.  I  wish  that  every  man 
could  and  would  study    and  become 
familiar  with  the  laws  of  his  state  and 
with  the  laws  of  his  nation,  and  with 
the  laws  of  other  nations.    Tou  cannot 
learn  too  much  in  these  directions;  but 
I  think  there  are  too  many  trying  to  be 
lawyers,  for  the  good  of  that  profes- 
sion.   They  are  eating  one  another  up, 
to  some  extent.    Not  long  ago  a  young 
man  who  had  studied  law  and  hung 
out  his  shingle  here,  after  waiting  for 
business,  trying  to  stir  up  business,  for 
some  length  of  time,   came  so  near 
starving  himself  and  family  that  he 
came  and  wanted  to  know  what  to  do. 
He  could  not  make  a  living  in  the  pro- 
fession  of  law.     I  asked   him  if  he 
knew  how  to  do  anything  else.  He 
said  yes,  he  was  a  good  printer.  Well, 
then,  I   said,  abandon   the  profession 
of  law  and  take  up  the  profession  of 
printing;  do  something  that  you  can  do 
and  that  you  can  make  a  liying  at.  If 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


he  had  any  practise  at  all  in  law  my 
counsel  to  him,  if  he  had  obeyed  it — 
and  he  did — would  have  been,  a  benefit 
to  those  who  remained  in  the  profes- 
sion. There  are  some  men,  most  hon- 
orable, most  genuine  and  most  intelli- 
gent who  are  following  the  profession 
of  the  law.  I  wish  I  could  say  that 
much  of  all. 

Then,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  get 
•out  of  debt.  My  young  friends,  learn 
to  become  skilful  in  the  arts  and  in 
mechanics  and  in  something  that  will 
be  material,  useful  in  building  up  the 
commonwealth  where  we  live  and  where 
all  our  interests  are  centered. 

O,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  ad- 
monish you  to  look  after  your  children, 
that  they  may  grow  up  with  proper 
habits,  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
keeping  themselves  morally  clean  and 
pure,  avoiding  the  temptations  and  the 
allurements  that  beset  them  on  every 
hand,  that  they  may  grow  up  to  be 
men  and  women  without  spot  and  with- 
out blemish.  This  is  the  great  desid- 
eratum of  life,  almost,  at  least  to  me. 
For  me  to  see  my  children  following 
in  the  ways  of  sin,  departing  from  the 
ways  of  uprightness,  would  be  the  most 
grievous  affliction  that  could  befall  me. 
Death  itself  would  be  more  tolerable. 

Now,  I  feel  that  it  is  not  wise  cr 
proper  for  me  to  occupy  more  of  the 
time  this  morning.  There  are  many 
other  things  that  might  be  said,  and 
probably  will  be  said  by  those  who  will 
address  us  during  this  conference.  I 
trust  that  proper  attention  may  be  giv- 
en to  their  counsels,  and  that  we  may 
be  built  up  and  strengthened  in  the 
faith  and  encouraged  in  our  de- 
terminations to  serve  the  Lord,  to  keep 
His  commandments,  work  right- 
eousness and  try  to  do  good  to  all  men, 
whether  they  be  Latter-day  Saints  or 
latter-day  sinners.  Let  us  do  good  to 
all  men;  that  is  our  mission.  It  is  our 
especial  business  to  lift  up  those  who 
are  drooping,  to  strengthen  the  weak, 
to  encourage  those  who  are  in 
doubt,  and  to  lead  on  and  up  in  the 
path  of  righteousness  and  of  useful- 
ness among  men  in  the  world,  that  we 
may  be  in  deed  and  of  a  truth  saviors 
upon  Mount  Zion.  That  God  may  grant 


this  to  every  one  of  us  is  my  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  hymn  on  the  first  page  of  the 
book,  was  sung  with  excellent  effect, 
by  Brothers  Wood  and  Noall  Pratt, 
both  grandsons  of  Parley  P.  Pratt,  the 
author.    The  first  verse  is  as  follows: 

The  morning  breaks,  the  shadows  flee; 

Lo!  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled! 
The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day 

Majestic  rises  on  the  world. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

Joy  in  preaching  the  Gospel — The  Japat  ese  mission 
— Productivity  of  land  in  that  country — Advan- 
tages of  thorough  cultivation — Tie  sugar  in- 
dustry— Necessity  of  obedience  to  legitimate 
authority— Good  words  for  Elders  in  Japan. 

It  is  needless  for  me  to  say  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  I  rejoice  in  hav- 
ing the  privilege  of  again  standing  be- 
fore you  in  this  Tabernacle.  It  is  in- 
deed a  pleasure,  to  every  man  and  wo- 
man who  possess  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged,  to  go  forth  and  bear  that  tes- 
timony to  his  or  her  fellows.  There  is 
no  joy  that  comes  to  the  human  heart, 
so  far  as  my  experience  in  life  goes, 
that  equals  that  which  we  feel  when 
we  are  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
at  home  or  abroad.  I  believe,  as  a  rule, 
when  we  are  away  from  home,  and  re- 
lieved of  the  cares  generally  associated 
with  the  ordinary  affairs  of  life,  which 
engross  most  of  our  attention,  we  then 
draw  nearer  to  the  Lord,  and  receive 
more  abundantly  of  the  manifestations 
of  His  Holy  Spirit,  than  we  do  while  at 
home.  It  is  because  of  this  fact  that 
the  young  returned  Elder,  and  the 
Elder  who  has  been  on  a  second  or  third 
mission,  who  has  been  faithful,  can 
arise  before  congregations  of  the  Saints 
and  testify  that  he  greatly  enjoyed  his 
missionary  labors,  notwithstanding  he 
has  been  separated  from  his  friends 
and  not  pursuing  the  usual  avocations 
of  life. 

In  case  I  may  forget  it,  I  want  to 
say  a  word  or  two  about  the  hymn  we 
have  just  listened  to — "The  Morning 
Breaks,  the  Shadows  Flee,"  etc.  I 
will  not  take  time  to  read  it,  but  it  is 
the  first  hymn  in  the  book.  It  was 
written  under  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord,   by  one  of  the  greatest  of  all 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


7 


the  preachers  and  writers  of  the  Gos- 
pel in  his  day— Parley  P.  Pratt.  God  be 
praised  that  he  has  a  couple  of  grand- 
sons who  can  sing  it  so  beautifully! 
Read  the  hymn,  and  treasure  in  your 
hearts  the  sentiments  of  it.  It  fills  my 
heart  with  joy  when  I  realize  that  men 
who  gave  their  lives,  and  all  their  time 
and  talents  to  God's  work,  who  never 
sought  the  accumulation  of  wealth,  have 
left  soils  and  grandsons  who  are  follow- 
ing in  their  footsteps.  The  "Voice  of 
Warning"  is  as  much  alive  today,  as 
when  Parley  P.  Pratt  finished  writing 
it.  It  is  sent  forth  by  the  tens  of 
thousands,  and  there  is  an  inspiration 
and  power  attending  that  work  wher- 
ever it  is  distributed. 

I  know  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  been  greatly  interested  in  the  mis- 
sion I  was  called  to  preside  over,  and  I 
regret  I  am  not  able  to  tell  you  that  we 
have  done  something  wonderful  over 
in  Japan.  To  be  perfectly  frank  with 
you,  I  acknowledge  I  have  accomplished 
very  little  indeed,  as  the  president  of 
that  mission;  and  very  little  has  been 
accomplished— so  far  as  conversions  are 
concerned — by  the  few  Elders  sent  there 
to  labor,  or  by  the  sisters  who  were 
with  me.  At  the  same  time,  I  have  the 
assurance  in  my  heart  there  will  yet  be 
a  great  and  important  labor  accom- 
plished in  that  land.  The  inhabitants 
are  a  wonderful  people.  What  they  have 
accomplished  during  the  past  fifty 
years,  since  the  country  was  opened  to 
foreigners,  is  little  less  than  marvelous. 
Verily,  "a  nation  has  been  born  in  a 
day,"  in  Japan!  When  I  was  coming 
home  from  that  mission,  as  well  as 
while  I  was  on  my  way  there,  I  was 
profoundly  impressed  with  the  great 
progress  that  has  been  made  by  that 
people.  I  traveled  from  Seattle  to  Ja- 
pan, in  returning  to  that  country,  upon 
one  of  the  vessels  of  the  Japan  Steam- 
ship company.  It  is  a  vessel  of  be- 
tween six  and  seven  thousand  tons  ca- 
pacity. It  wag  built  by  the  Japanese 
themselves.  It  is  owned  by  Japanese 
capital,  and  it  is  competing  in  the  mar- 
kets of  the  world,  so  to  speak,  against 
English  and  American  ships,  and  is 
holding  its  own.  That  company  also 
has  a  large  line  of  steamers  running  to 


England,  Australia,  and  New  Zealand. 
It  is  one  of  the  greatest  companies  hav- 
ing vessels  on  the  Pacific  ocean.  When 
you  think  of  several  thousand  tons  of 
coal  loaded  into  a  vessel  you  can 
imagine  that  it  is  a  pretty  good 
sized  boat.  It  is  nearly  twice 
as  long  as  Zion's  Co-operative  Mer- 
cantile store  on  Main  street,  and  has 
twice  as  many  stories,  counting  decks 
under  and  above  the  water,  though  they 
are  not  quite  so  high;  and  it  is  about 
50  feet  wide.  It  is  certainly  an  im- 
mense vessel.  I  returned  home  by 
another  vessel  owned  by  the  same 
company,  just  completed  in  Japan,  aua 
commanded  by  the  man  who  was  in 
charge  of  the  one  I  went  to  Japan  on. 
To  give  you  an  idea  of  how  steadily 
those  large  vessels  travel,  I  will  state, 
we  left  Japan  for  home  in  the  midst 
of  what  is  known  as  an  Asiatic  ty- 
phoon, and  notwithstanding  the  water 
occasionally  dashed  over  the  forward 
deck,  which  was,  perhaps,  25  to  40  feet 
above  the  sea,  (it  is  very  hard  to  judge 
the  height  looking  over  the  side  of  a 
vessel),  and  notwithstanding  the  waves 
were  rolling  high,  I  do  not  believe  that 
a  tumbler  of  water,  set  on  the  floor, 
would  have  tipped  over  during  the 
storm. 

While  listening  to  President  Smith's 
remarks,  I  was  forcibly  impressed  with 
some  lessons  I  have  learned  by  going 
to  Japan.  One  of  them  is  that  there  is 
an  abundance  of  opportunity  in  Utah 
for  every  wideawake,  active  man,  and 
really  he  does  not  need  to  rustle  around 
to  try  and  find  a  better  country  t0  go 
to.  In  Utah,  we  cultivate  about  15  per 
cent  of  the  soil.  In  Japan,  it  is  claim- 
ed, they  cultivate  only  12  per  cent. 
Japan  is  about  25  per  cent  larger  than 
our  state,  therefore,  the  area  of  the 
land  under  cultivation  is  about  the 
same  as  here;  yet  they  support  between 
forty  and  fifty  millions  of  people  on 
that  amount  of  land?  We  think  we  are 
cultivating  the  land,  why,  we  are  sim- 
ply scratching  it  over,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  There  has  been  a  wonderful 
increase  in  the  value  of  land  in  the  vi- 
cinity of  Lehi  sugar  factory,  as  well 
as  land  in  the  vicinity  of  Ogden,  Lo- 
gan, and  Garland  factories,  because  of 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


superior  cultivation  and  yielding  larger 
crops.  I  know  this  is  a  problem  that 
is  before  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
should  unitedly  study  to  create  im- 
provements whereby  the  land  will  pro- 
duce more,  instead  of  trying  to  see 
where  we  can  go  to  get  a  big  piece  of 
land.  There  are  many  men  who,  with 
a  few  acres  properly  looked  after  and 
cultv  ivated,  produce  more  than  the  men 
with  large  farms  which  they  sim- 
ply scratch  over.  We  should  have 
chickens  to  do  the  scratching,  but  we 
should  thoroughly  cultivate  our  land. 
I  call  to  mind  a  man  who  lives  at  Lehi, 
a  little  more  than  a  stone's  throw  from 
the  railroad  station.  One  year  that  man 
raised,  on  a  little  less  than  four  acres 
of  ground,  128  tons  of  beets.  He  was  a 
very  honest  man,  and  he  realized  that 
many  of  those  beets  were  no  good  for 
sugar.  Tou  know,  in  the  early  history 
of  the  Lehi  sugar  factory,  we  had  to 
take  everything  in  the  shape  of  beets 
that  the  farmer  raised.  It  was  not  like 
wheat;  if  the  farmer  raised  some  wheat 
and  it  got  frost-bitten,  and  was  no 
good,  the  miller  did  not  have  to  buy  it; 
but  when  we  started  the  sugar  indus- 
try we,  figuratively,  got  down  on  our 
knees  to  the  farmer,  and  if  that  would 
not  do,  we  almost  lay  down  and 
crawled  to  him,  and  begged  him  to 
raise  beets.  We  had  to  take  all  the 
beets  they  brought  us,  and  pay  $5  a  ton 
for  them,  and  then  had  to  feed  some  of 
them  to  the  pigs,  because  they  were 
no  earthly  good,  not  having  any  sac- 
charine matter  in  them.  The  man  of 
whom  I  speak,  however,  realizing  that 
the  large  beets  which  had  grown  on  the 
edge  of  his  little  garden  farm,  close 
to  where  the  water  ran,  had  but  little 
sugar  in  them,  and  that  they  were  not 
worth  $5  a  ton,  picked  out  about  eight 
tons  of  the  large  beets  and  kept  them 
to  feed  his  own  stock,  the  rest  he 
brought  to  us.  and  got  $600  in  cash  for 
them — from  four  acres.  Soon  af- 
ter that  I  went  to  the  Snake 
river  valley.  I  found  a  man 
there  with  360  acres  (I  was  rath- 
er sorry  he  did  not  have  400  acres), 
and  I  asked  him  how  much  he  had 
raised  that  year.  He  said, 
about    $500.    He    had    scratched,  and 


worked,  and  plowed,  and  harrowed, 
his  big  farm,  and  had  raised  that  little; 
whereas,  my  friend  with  the  four  acres 
— by  the  way,  he  had  a  flower  garden, 
and  raised  vegetables  for  his  family,  so 
he  did  not  have  the  entire  four  acres  in 
beets — made  $600  in  cash.  He  also  had 
the  pleasure  of  living  right  there  with 
his  friends,  having  the  benefit  of  schools 
and  other  advantages  for  his  children, 
instead  of  living  away  off  on  a  ranch, 
with  no  educational  advantages,  no  so- 
ciety, no  improvement  associations,  no- 
Sunday  schools,  and  where  he  would 
have  to  scratch,  walk,  harrow,  plow 
and  wear  himself  out.  Then,  we  gave 
prizes  in  those^  days  (I  do  not  know 
whether  they  still  give  them)  for  the 
best  10  acres,  the  best  five  acres,  and 
the  best  two  and  a  half  acres;  and 
this  man's  four  acres  were  better  than 
anybody  else's  two  and  a  half,  so  he 
got  a  $50  prize.  Consequently  his  land 
yielded  him  eight  tons  of  beets,  veg- 
etables for  his  family,  furnished  him  a 
house  to  live  in,  and  gave  him  $650  in 
cash. 

President  Young  tried  to  establish  the 
silk  industry,  when  I  was  a  boy,  and 
some  of  the  people  pooh-poohed  and 
laughed  at  it  They  also  pooh- 
poohed  and  laughed  at  the 
sugar  industry.  I  remember  that 
every  farmer  I  talked  with  said 
we  could  not  afford  to  raise  beets; 
that  it  would  cost  more  to  plant  them, 
dig  them  up  and  take  the  tops  off 
than  they  were  actually  worth.  They 
have  found  out  better  now.  A  whole  lot 
of  them  have  discovered  that  it  pays 
reasonably  well  to  plant  beets.  Before 
I  went  to  Japan,  I  priced  many  and 
many  a  farm  in  the  vicinity  of  Lehi, 
and  the  owners  had  simply  doubled  the 
prices  from  what  they  were  before  the 
factory  was  built.  I  tell  you  that  the 
actual  increase  in  value  of  land  in 
Utah  county  is  more  than  the  cost  of 
building  that  factory.  So,  I  am  in- 
clined to  think  it  did  benefit  the  farm- 
er, that  it  was  beneficial  to  the  peo- 
ple as  well  as  to  the  stockholder — that 
is,  those  who  became  stockholders  after 
it  was  started,  and  not  some  of  us  who 
got  in  at  the  commencement  and  "went 
broke"  on  it. 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


9 


I  find  there  are  many  oppor- 
tunities, if  we  will  but  take  advantage 
of  them,  and  constantly  study  to  im- 
prove and  increase  the  production  of 
the  soil,  as  well  as  make  the  best  pos- 
sible use  of  our  means.  I  am  told 
that  much  of  the  land  in  some  sections 
of  Cache  valley,  which  was  considered 
cf  but  very  little  value,  is  today  very 
valuable,  because  of  the  creamery  in- 
dustry. I  rejoice  to  hear  of  this  in- 
crease in  values  because  of  the  estab- 
lishment of  manufactures.  I  have  al- 
ways worn  home-made  clothes.  (Of 
course,  I  am  wearing  Japanese  clothes 
now,  but  they  will  soon  be  worn  out, 
and  if  I  stay  here  long  enough  I  will 
be  wearing  Provo  goods  again.)  I  al- 
ways believed  in  wearing  them.  "Why? 
Because  a  suit  of  clothes  made  at  home 
keeps  $20  to  $30  at  home;  whereas,  by 
sending  the  wool  away  to  be  made  up 
the  community  would  be  enriched  by 
the  bringing  back  of  75  cents!  By  keep- 
ing the  $30  here,  if  I  do  not  get  it 
somebody  else  does;  and  I  was  always 
of  the  opinion  that,  if  it  floated  around, 
perhaps  I  would  get  even  by  seizing 
some  of  it.  In  buying  home-made 
clothes  there  is  part  patriotism,  and 
part  a  desire  for  my  own  pocket. 

The  people  of  Japan  are  industrious. 
They  learn  to  economize,  because  they 
simply  have  to  live  on  very  little.  I 
believe  that  if  the  Latter-day  Saints 
would  more  generally  practise  economy, 
frugality,  and  increase  the  production 
of  the  soil,  there  would  be  greater  op- 
portunities for  not  only  the  people  who 
are  here,  but  for  many  times 
the  number.  "We  do  not  need  to  go 
to  Mexico,  Canada,  "Wyoming  or  any 
other  place,  to  improve  our  condition, 
as  a  rule.  Mind  you,  there  are  excep- 
tions, and  I  do  not  want  anybody 
to  think  I  am  not  willing  to 
see  Canada,  Wyoming,  Colorado 
and  Mexico  built  up.  I  rejoice  to 
realize  that  Zion  is  spreading. 
But,  in  spreading,  let  the  people  try 
to  improve.  Do  not  get  so  much  land 
that  you  will  work  yourself  to  death, 
and  leave  your  children  to  quarrel  over 
it.  Be  satisfied  with  a  moderate  size 
farm— one  that  you  can  culti- 
vate,      and       make       produce  to 


the  fullest  extent.  As  I  say, 
seeing  that  nation  of  forty  or  fifty  mil- 
lions of  people  being  supported  on  prac- 
tically the  same  amount  of  soil  that  we 
cultivate,  it  has  given  me  the  idea  that 
there  are  wonderful  opportunities  for 
us  in  establishing  other  industries  in 
addition  to  the  sugar  industry. 

Now,  I  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
seek  for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  Pray 
to  God  for  the  desire  and  strength  to 
carry  out,  to  the  full  extent  of  the 
ability  God  has  given  you,  the  counsel 
and  instruction  of  the  servant  of  God 
and  his  counselors,  who  stand  at  the 
head  of  this  people.  I  say  to  you  that 
if  Wilford  Woodruff  had  leaned  upon 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  indi- 
viduals, you  never  would  have  had  a 
sugar  industry  in  this  country,  at  least 
for  many  years  to  come.  The  Presiden- 
cy of  this  Church,  in  the  days  of  the 
"boom,"  and  just  beforei  the  collapse, 
wrote  circular  letters  and  sent  them  all 
over  Israel,  stating  that  they  desired 
this  industry  established.  They  ap- 
pealed to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  from 
one  end  of  Zion  to  the  other,  to  invest 
their  money  in  it;  and  men  who  would 
invest  ten,  twenty,  thirty,  fifty  thous- 
and dollars  in  sheep,  and  then  go  in 
debt  in  addition,  would  not  put  more 
than  fifty  or  sixty  dollars  in  this  in- 
dustry intended  to  create  employment 
for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  to  benefit 
the  farmers.  Some  rich  sheep  man,  if 
you  showed  him  a  herd  of  sheep  that 
was  worth  fifteen  thousand  dollars,  and 
told  him  he  could  havje  it  for  fourteen 
thousand,  would  go  to  the  Deseret  Na- 
tional bank,  or  the  State  bank,  borrow 
the  money,  and  take  chances;  but  he 
would  not  borrow  money  to  put  into  an 
industry  that  the  man  whom  God  had 
called  to  stand  at  the  head 
of  this  people  desired  to  have 
established.  No;  he  would  give 
the  sixty  dollars,  and  say  he  never  ex- 
pected to  see  it  again,  because  the  busi- 
ness would  not  succeed.  All  Israel,  in 
the  greatest  industry  that  has  yet  been 
established  here,  invested  the  enormous 
amount  of  ten  thousand  dollars  at  the 
time  the  first  payment  had  to  be  made 


to 


GENEEATj  conference. 


on  that  factory.  Many  wealthy  men 
whom  I  went  to,  with  a  letter  from  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  asking  them 
to  help  that  industry— and  they  were 
abundantly  able  to  do  it— declined  to  do 
so,  and  said  they  did  not  believe  the 
Church  had  any  business  to  put  money 
in  a  sugar  factory,  that  it  was  not 
within  the  province  of  the  Church  to 
do  such  things.  I  tell  you  it  is  the 
duty  of  the  Presidency  of  this  Church 
to  ask  the  people  to  do  anything  and 
everything  that  the  inspiration  of  God 
tells  them  to  do.  But  for  the  wisdom 
of  Brigham  Young,  under  the  inspira- 
tion of  Almighty  God,  the  Latter-day 
Saints  would  not  be  in  this  country  at 
all.  We  are  here  in  fulfillment  of  the 
prediction  of  Josleph  Smith,  in  which 
he  stated  that  we  would  be  driven  from 
city  to  city,  from  county  to  county,  and 
finally  be  driven  to  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains and  become  a  great  and  prosper- 
ous people.  It  has  been  by  the  inspira- 
tion of  Joseph  Smith  and  Brigham 
Young  that  the  people  have  been  plant- 
ed here;  and  it  has  been  through  the 
blessings  of  God  and  His  watchcare  over 
this  people,  that  they  have  been  pros- 
pered. Read  in  the  Improvement 
Era  (I  believe  it  is  in  the  first  volume) 
an  article  entitled  "A  Voice  from  the 
Soil,"  by  Professor  Widtsoe;  it  shows 
the  inspiration  of  God  to  these  two 
men.  We  are  in  one  of  the  greatest 
and  finest  producing  countries  on 
earth;  and  this  scientist,  Professor 
"Widtsoe,  says  that  this  country  is 
able  to  sustain  the  people  from 
all  nations  of  the  'earth,  when  they 
shall  flee  to  Zion  for  safety.  Let  us 
be  ready  and  willing  to  follow  our  file 
leaders,  and  to  sustain  them.  I  say 
to  you  that  the  establishment  of  the 
sugar  industry  here  is  the  result  of  the 
inspiration  of  God  to  Wilford  Woodruff, 
that  meek  and  lowly  man  who  was  en- 
titled to  the  inspiration  of  God,  and 
who  received  it.  Though  business  men, 
and  others,  criticised  his  action  at  the 
time,  I  have  lived  to  see  his  wisdom 
prove  superior  to  the  critcism  of  the 
"wise"  ones,  and  the  people  have  been 
benefitted  and  blessed.  You  will  al- 
ways be  blessed  and  benefitted  in  fol- 


lowing the  advice  and  counsel  of  those 
whom  God  has  chosen  to  preside  over 
the  Church.  By  honoring  the  man 
God  has  chosen,  God  will  honor  and 
bless  you;  and  as  you  individually  do 
your  duty,  you  will  grow  and  increase 
in  the  light  and  inspiration  of  the 
Spirit  of  God.  As  we  grow  and  in- 
crease individually,  so  will  the  Church 
grow  and  increase.  I  tell  you,  "obedi- 
ence is  better  than  sacrifice,  and  to 
hearken  than  the  fat  of  rams."  I  am 
willing  to  be  utterly  ruined  financially, 
if  that  resulted  from  fulfilling  the 
council  and  wishes  of  those  whom  God 
has  placed  to  preside  over  me.  This 
is  the  work  of  God.  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  prophet  of  God;  we  must  remember 
that.  We  must  "seek  first  the  kingdom 
of  God  and  His  righteousness,"  and 
then  shall  all  other  things  be  added. 
Life  eternal  is  what  we  are  working 
for.  Do  not  allow  the  wisdom,  the 
riches  or  the  education  of  the  world, 
or  anything  else,  to  blind  our  eyes  to 
the  fact  that  this  is  God's  work,  and 
that  the  mouthpiece  of  God  is  on  the 
earth;  when  he  speaks,  let  us  be  ready 
and  willing,  with  our  time,  our  talents 
and  all  that  has  been  given  us,  to  la- 
bor to  fulfill  what  God  desires.  I  tell 
you,  God  will  vindicate  His  mouthpiece, 
as  He  vindicated  Wilford  Woodruff  and 
his  counselors  in  the  establishment  of 
the  sugar  industry. 

I  forgot  all  about  the  Japanese  mis- 
sion, in  preaching  about  the  Lehi 
sugar  factory.  I  rejoice  to  say  we  had 
a  delightful  trip  to  Japan;  and  a  very 
pleasant  trip  home,  except  the  first 
three  days,  when  we  were  in  the  ty- 
phon.  When  we  held  a  service, 
the  captain  paid  us  the  compliment  of 
coming  to  meeting.  He  had  his  seven- 
tieth birthday  on  the  vessel  as  we 
were  returning,  and  the  passengers 
contributed  a  few  dollars  apiece,  and 
gave  it  to  a  gentleman  for  the  purpose 
of  buying  a  very  handsome  silver  lov- 
ing cup  to  present  to  the  captain,  on  his 
arrival  in  Seattle.  I  held  services  on 
the  boat  during  the  voyage,  and  spoke 
40  or  50  minutes.  The  captain  said  he 
had  been  on  the  ocean  from  boyhood, 
but  had  seen  so  much  hypocrisy  in  re- 
ligion that  he  would  never  go  to  any 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


11 


of  the  meetings  that  were  held  on  his 
vessel.  But,  it  seems  he  learned  to 
like  us,  as  we  went  with  him  to  Japan, 
and  he  came  to  meeting  and  listened 
to  us;  and,  said  he,  "I  declare  it's 
pretty  good  sound  sense  that  you  folks 
talk.  Tours  is  a  pretty  good  practical 
sort  of  a  religion,  I  rather  like  the 
Mormons,  and  will  always  be  glad  to 
have  them  travel  on  my  boat." 

In  Japan  we  have  many  warm 
friends;  and  we  rejoice  to  know  that 
our  Elders  are  all  doing  very  well  in- 
deed; and  the  two  sisters  there  have 
an  excellent  spirit.  There  was  a  dozen 
of  us  there,  and  I  do  not  believe  I  ever 
was  associated  with  the  same  number 
of  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  same 
length  of  time,  whom  I  loved  any 
dearer.  They  are  very  choice.  Of 
course,  they  are  young  and  inexperi- 
enced, but  the  Lord  Is.  blessing  them, 
and  the  younger  ones  are  learning  the 
language  very  rapidly.  I  am  well  sat- 
isfied with  the  progress  they  are  mak- 
ing. Brother  Ensign,  I  feel,  will  be 
able  to  take  charge  of  the  affairs  of 
that  mission  just  as  well  as  I  could 
possibly  do  if  I  had  remained.  He  has 
had  missionary  experience;  he  loves 
the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  he  would  be 
ready  and  willing,  if  need  be,  to  give 
his  life  for  the  cause,  and  that  is  all 
any  man  can  do.  He  has 
found  it  difficult  to  learn  that 
language,  and  once  or  twice 
has  been  a  little  discouraged.  I 
do  not  blame  him  for  this.  We  all  get 
discouraged  at  times;  but  if  we  repent 
of  our  discouragement,  and  labor  with 
increased  zeal, the  Lord  never  holds  any- 
thing of  that  kind  against  us,  neither 
do  our  brethren.  One  reason  perhaps 
why  Brother  Ensign  got  a  bit  discour- 
aged at  times  was,  I  think,  necause  he 
had  had  such  an  active,  energetic  life 
as  a  missionary  in  Colorado.  There  he 
was  at  it  early  and  late,  singing,  pray- 
ing and  preaching,  outdoors  and  in- 
doors; then  to  go  over  to  Japan,  sit 
down  and  study  what  people  call  "that 
abominable  language"  day  after  day, 
with  nothing  else  to  do — well,  I  tell  you 
it  takes  a  whole  lot  more  courage  and 
endurance  than  it  does  to  get  out  and 
do  active  work.    It  tests  a  man  mor.e 


than  it  does  to  labor.  It  does  not  re- 
quire much  courage  for  a  man  to  knock 
another  down  who  hits  him;  but  it 
takes  a  great  deal  of  courage  to  take 
it  without  hitting  back.  It  becomes 
monotonous  to  do  nothing.  Lots  of  men 
are  first  class  in  a  fight,  but  of  no  ac- 
count to  guard.  Brother  Ensign  is  la- 
boring faithfully  and  diligently,  and  the 
Lord  is  blessing  him.  All  the  Elders 
there  love  him,  and  he  has  sufficient 
wisdom,  and  enough  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  to  preside  there  successfully. 

When  I  received  my  release,  I 
felt  I  could  not  come  home;  that  I  must 
stay  at  least  six  months  more;  and  the 
first  night,  instead  of  being  happy,  as 
one  usually  is  when  released  to  return 
home,  I  felt  sad,  for  the  first 
and  only  time  in  Japan.  I  did  not  go  to 
sleep  until  three  or  four  o'clock  in  the 
morning,  and  I  felt  I  must  cable  home 
and  ask  permission  to  remain.  But  the 
next  day  I  got  to  enquiring  of  myself, 
What  good  is  there  for  you  to  stay 
here?  How  much  more  can  you  do  than 
Brother  Ensign?  And  I  began  to  realize 
it  was  a  desire  to  be  able  to  come  home 
and  tell  you  I  had  done  something  which 
prompted  my  wish  to  stay  there  longer. 
It  was  a  spirit  of  pride;  I  disliked  to 
have  to  tell  you  that  I  had  been  there  15 
months  and  done  nothing.  I  wanted  to 
stay  six  month  more,  to  get  some  re- 
sults from  the  active  labor  we  had  done 
there,  so  that  I  could  come  home  and 
say  I  had  done  as  well  as  other  Apos- 
tles who  had  gone-  out  on  missions.  I 
concluded  it  was  pride,  and  not  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  prompted  this 
feeling.  Then,  I  thought  I  could  come 
home  and  perhaps  go  somewhere  else, 
if  the  Lord  wanted  me  to  do  so;  at 
least,  I  could  do  something  more  profit- 
able than  sitting  down  in  Japan,  and 
everything  would  go  along  all  right 
there;  perhaps  I  could  move  one  stone, 
if  not  more,  if  I  came  home.  The  min- 
ute I  got  the  right  spirit  I  was  wonder- 
fully happy.  Brothey  Kelscn  was  hon- 
orably released  to  return  home,  and  I 
think  it  was  about  the  same  with  him 
as  with  me;  but,  no  doubt,  after  he 
thought  about  it  one  night,  as  I  did,  he 
was  very  glad  to  come  home.  You  can 
ask  him  when  you  see  him.  Brother 


12 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


Kelsch  and  I,  I  am  afraid,  have  got 
too  far  along  in  years  to  ever  learn 
Japanese.  I  believe,  as  President  Smith 
does,  that  the  Lord  will  help  us  to  do 
something  if  we  try  all  We  can  to  do  it 
ourselves;  but  in  this  case  the  Lord 
would  have  to  help  Brother  Grant  and 
Brother  Kelsch  such  a  great  deal,  that  I 
don't  think  either  of  us  had  the  faith  to 
believe  He  would  do  it. 

Of  the  four  who  originally  went  to 
Japan,  there  are  left  Brothers  Ensign 
and  Taylor.  Brother  Ensign  is  now  the 
president,  and  he  will  do  well.  Brother 
Taylor  has  done  remarkably  well.  The 
Lord  has  blessed  him  abundantly.  He 
has  studied  diligently,  and  he  is  a  won- 
derfully intelligent,  bright  young  man. 
Contrar3'  to  the  usual  effect,  when  the 
Lord  has  endowed  a  young  man  with 
remarkable  ability,  instead  of  his  head 
swelling,  and  his  thinking  he  knows 
everything,  he  is  just  as  humble  and 
modest  as  he  is  bright.  I  have  never 
been  associated  with  a  more  diligent, 
energetic,  faithful  young  man  in  all  my 
life.  He  is  an  honor  to  his  parents,  and 
to  the  work  of  God;  and  as  sure  as 
he  lives,  he  will  become  an  instrument 
in  the  hands  of  God  of  accomplishing  a 
great  and  noble  work.  The  five  young 
men  who  went  with  me  later  have  all 
been  diligent.  Some  of  them  have 
found  it  easier  to  learn  the  language 
than  others.  They  are  all  choice  spirits 
and  are  progressing  constantly.  Those 
who  have  found  it  most  difficult  to 
learn  the  language  have  been  the  most 
abundantly  blessed  by  our  Heavenly 
Father.  They  have  been  diligent,  and 
the  Lord  has  seemed  to  make  up  to 
them  what  they  lacked  in  learning 
readily.  Those  who  have  found  it 
most  difficult  to  talk  Japanese,  on  sev- 
eral occasions,  when  they  have  been  ex- 
plaining the  principles  of  the  Gospel, 
the  Lord  has  given  them  words  to 
speak,  and  they  have  been  enabled  to 
talk  beyond  their  knowledge  of  the 
language.  We  have  rejoiced  in  this 
additional  testimony  of  God's  goodness 
unto  us.  The  two  sisters  who  are  there 
have  done  remarkably  well.  My  wife 
found  it  very  difficult  to  learn  the 
language,  being  more  advanced  in  years 


than  the  othler  sisters.  She  learned  it 
much  better  than  I  did,  however;  still 
it  was  a  hard  task  for  her.  My  daugh- 
ter found  it  easier;  and  really  I  regret- 
ted exceedingly  to  come  home  on  her 
account;  for  she  was  getting  the  mis- 
sionary spirit;  she  was  able  to  bear 
testimony,  and  did  it  humbly,  and  with 
the  blessing  of  God.  I  felt  that,  if  she 
could  stay  ther'e  a  few  more  months, 
God  would  give  her  an  increased  testi- 
mony, and  power  and  ability  to  do  a  re- 
markable labor  in  that  land.  I  was 
sad  to  bring  her  home,  because  I  felt 
she  was  gaining  an  experience,  in  her 
childhood,  that  would  be  of  very  great 
value  to  her. 

The  people  there  were  as  kind  and 
considerate  of  us  as  we  could  possibly 
ask  them  to  be.  We  followed  out  the 
advice  we  received  from  the  Presiden- 
cy, to  the  best  of  our  ability.  We  have 
published  two  tracts.  One  of  them  was 
a  short  tract  I  wrote,  containing  a  lit- 
tle information  about  the  Church, 
which  has  been  re-published  in  the 
"Era."  The  other  was  a  tract  written 
entirely  by  Brother  Taylor,  on  God. 
He  did  not  attempt  to  write  on  the 
Godhead,  for  fear  of  confusing  that 
people.  It  is  a  very  able  tract.  He 
first  wrote  one  that  would  have  been 
very  satisfactory  in  any  land  where  the 
people  understood  English;  but  it 
struck  me  that  it  would  be  too  deep, 
and  far  beyond  what  the  Japanese 
could  understand;  so  I  handed  it  to 
him  and  said,  Brother  Taylor,  I  wish 
you  would  ask  the  Lord  to  help  you 
write  this  in  a  kind  of  second  reader 
style.  He  wrote  it  again,  and  simpli- 
fied it;  and,  if  you  had  not  known  the 
same  man  had  written  the  two  tracts, 
you  could  hardly  have  believed  it.  It 
delighted  us  all,  and  we  praised  the 
Lord  for  the  ability  He  had  given 
Brother  Taylor  to  write  this  tract;  we 
feel  it  will  do  great  good.  The  people 
there  are  wonderfully  interested  In 
learning  English.  At  one  time  there 
were  ten  young  men  who  wanted  to  be 
baptized.  We  told  them  not  to  be  in  a 
hurry,  but  to  come  around  and  see  us 
occasionally,  and  we  would  talk  with 
them,  and  after  awhile,  when  they  un- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


13 


derstood  the  Gospel  better,  we  would 
baptize  them.  Just  as  soon,  however, 
as  Brother  Taylor  and  .others  of  the 
brethren  got  far  enough  along  that 
when  they  would  come  there  and  talk 
English,  the  brethren  would  talk  back 
in  Japanese  they  commenced  dropping 
off  one  by  one.  Nearly  all  our  con- 
verts are  of  that  kind.  They  love  us 
very  dearly,  they  know  we  have  the 
truth,  and  they  want  to  bfe  baptized 
right  away;  but  when  we  quit  talking 
English  to  them  they  lose  their  love 
of  the  Gospel.  It  was  very  amusing  to 
me  to  have  an  intelligent,  bright  Japa- 
nese sit  down  and  talk  a  whole  evening 
with  Brother  Taylor,  determined  to 
talk  English  and  never  a  word  of  Japa- 
nese, and  Brother  Taylor,  just  as  de- 
termined, to  never  say  a  word  of  Eng- 
lish, speaking  to  him  in  Japanese. 

We  have  baptized  only  three  people 
so  far,  and  two  of  them  I  am  afraid, 
arte  no  good.  The  other  one,  I  believe, 
is  a  converted  man  and  a  Latter-day 
Saint.  The  two  who  were  baptized 
first  were  quite  promising,  and,  when  I 
came  home  before,  I  reported  how  good 
we  felt  over  these  two  men.  One  of 
them  could  spleak  English,  and  had 
read  the  Bible.  Oh!  he  believed  it  all 
—ready  to  give  his  life  for  it.  I  found 
out  afterwards  that  he  wanted  to  bor- 
row some  money  from  me  to  start  a 
patent  medicine  establishment.  The 
other  man,  a  Shinto  priest,  I  tried  to 
persuade  to  wait  awhile  before  being 
baptised,  but  he  said  he  believed  every 
word.  I  took  Brother  Kelsch's  "Beady 
References,"  and  went  over  it  with  him, 
through  an  interpreter,  reference  by 
reference,  and  he  swallowed  every  one 
of  them.  Inside  of  a  week  after  I  first 
le'ft  Japan,  he  wanted  some  money  from 
the  brethren,  and  as  soon  as  I  got  back 
there  he  wanted  fifteen  hundred  dollars 
from  me  to  start  a  job  printing  office, 
and  when  he  didn't  get  it,  his  faith 
oozed  out.  The  last  convert  just  "went 
for  us"  in  the  beginning.  H|e  had  been 
taught  English  by  a  Christian  minister, 
and  he  knew  all  the  arguments  of  our 
Christian  friends.  He  used  to  come 
regularly  and  have  battles  with  Brother 
Taylor,  and  Brother  Taylor  beat  him 


every  time,  until  it  began  to  dawn  on 
his  mind  that  we  must  have  the  truth, 
seeing  that  everything  he  advanced  was 
overcome.  He  commenced  studying 
our  faith,  and  read  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. He  was  finally  baptized,  and  has 
been  true  ever  since,  and  we  hope  he 
will  continue  so. 

Now,  I  have  not  half  told  my  story; 
but  the  time  is  past.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins  : 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor 
fear, 

But  with  joy  wend  your  way; 
Though  hard  to  you  this  journey  may 
appear, 
Grace  shall  be  as  your  day. 

Benediction  by  Elder  David  McKen- 
zie. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 
The  choir  sang  the  sacred  hymn: 

"Peace  Be  Still." 
Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Charles 
F.  Middleton. 

The  anthem  "Hosanna"  was  sung  by 
the  choir. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Obedience  to  truth  the  basis  of  freedom— Sin  pro- 
ductive of  bondage— Preparatory  work  for  the 
coming  of  Christ. 

I  sincerely  ask  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers.  I  desire  to  speak 
to  you  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  for  anv  other  influence  would 
not  edify  us.  I  rejoice  in  seeing  this 
large  attendance  at  our  conference.  It 
manifests  to  us  that  the  Saints  are 
desirous  of  coming  together  and  receiv- 
ing the  word  of  the  Lord. 

I  was  very  much  interested  this 
morning  in  the  remarks  of  our  breth- 
ren who  spoke  to  us.  President  Smith 
told  us  to  be  free,  and  not  to  be  the 
slaves  of  sin.  On  one  occasion,  our 
Savior,  i,n  addressing  the  Jews  who  be- 
lieved on  Him,  said  to  them,  "If  ye 
continue  in  my  word,  then  are  ye  my 
disciples  indeed;  and  ye  shall  know  the 
truth,  and  the  truth  shall  make  you 
free."      They  said  to  Him,   "We  be 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Abraham's  seed,  and  were  never  in 
bondage  to  any  man:  how  sayest  thou, 
Te  shall  be  made  free?"  Jesus  an- 
swered them,  "Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto 
you,  Whosoever  committeth  sin  is  the 
servant  of  sin."  In  other  words,  the 
slave  of  sin.  Tho  Lord  has  command- 
ed us  that  we  shall  loose  the  bands  of 
wickedness  and  break  every  yoke.  Now, 
we  want  to  enjoy  the  blessing  embodied 
in  the  words  of  Jesus:  "The  truth  shall 
make  you  free."  The  Lord  wants  us 
to  be  free.  In  fact,  one  of  the  objects 
of  our  coming  upon  the  earth  was  to 
be  made  free,  and  to  learn  the  right 
use  of  freedom,  or  free  agency.  The 
Lord  does  net  want  us  to  be  slaves,  or 
even  servants,  in  the  sense  of  being 
in  bondage;  but  He  wants  us  to  be  His 
free  sons  and  daughters.  He  wants  us 
to  learn  the  right  use  of  free  agency. 
The  man  who  abstains  from  sin  and 
from  indulgence  in  sinful  pleasures  is 
not  a  servant  or  slave;  he  is  a  free  man. 
Too  many  there  are  who  do  not  under- 
stand this,  and  who  lack  the  moral 
courage  to  use  their  free  agency  and 
do  that  which  they  know  to  be  right. 
Too  many  there  are  who  are  afraid  of 
what  others  shall  say.  Latter-day 
Saints,  be  not  afraid  of  what  others' 
may  say;  but  be  afraid  of  what  He 
who  knows  the  inmost  thoughts  of 
your  hearts  shall  think  and  judge  of 
you.  The  man  who  chooses  to  con- 
tinue in  the  word  of  Christ,  not  only  in 
the  hearing  but  in  the  doing  of  it, 
though  it  may  deprive  him  of  the  good 
opinion  of  many,  shall  know  the  truth, 
and  the  truth  shall  make  him  free  in- 
deed. We  should  examine  ourselves, 
and  find  out  whether  the  truth  has 
made  us  free,  or  whether  we  be  still 
slaves  to  those  influences  that  we  know 
are  not  of  God.  Are  we  doing  the 
things  which  God  has  forbidden?  If  so, 
it  is  time  for  us  to  loose  the  bands  of 
wickedness  and  break  every  yoke.  It 
is  time  for  us  to  get  out  of  bondage, 
and  feel  within  ourselves  that  we  are 
free  indeed. 

When  the  Gospel  was  first  preached 
to  us  we  were  full  of  doubt  and  dark- 
ness. By  obeying  the  word  of  God  we 
received  an  assurance     that    we  had 


made  a  covenant  with  Him,  and  that 
He  had  accepted  us.  Doubt  and 
darkness  left  us.  The  light  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  filled  our  whole  beings,  and  we 
felt  that  we  were  free.  Have  we  con- 
tinued to  be  free  like  this?  Have  we 
not,  in  too  many  instances,  yielded  to 
temptation  and  indulged  in  that  from 
which  we  had  covenanted  to  keep  our- 
selves free?  I  am  afraid  that  too  many 
of  us  will  find  this  in  our  history.  My 
exhortation  is,  Let  us  learn  to  know 
ourselves,  and  to  know  how  we  stand 
with  our  Heavenly  Father;  and,  know- 
ing this,  so  shape  our  course  that  we 
can  gain  His  favor. 

We  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  the  work 
of  God  is  growing  in  the  earth,  and 
that  He  has  been  with  His  servants  in 
their  labors  to  promulgate  the  glad  tid- 
ings of  salvation  unto  men.  Our  mis- 
sionaries have  gone  to  nearly  all  lands, 
and  are  proclaiming  the  will  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  telling  men  that 
the  time  is  quickly  approaching  when 
Christ  will  come  the  second  time.  When 
He  came  the  first  time,  He  descended 
below  all  things  that  He  might  redeem 
mankind,  but  He  will  come  in  glo- 
ry to  the  earth,  with  His  holy  angels, 
to  meet  His  Saints.  That  time  is  ap- 
proaching. Much  will  have  to  be  done, 
no  doubt,  before  Christ  will  come  to 
reign  upon  the  earth.  How  long  it 
will  be  we  do  not  know;  but  we  know 
this:  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged 
is  the  preparatory  work  for  His  coming. 
We  call  upon  the  whole  world  to  re- 
pent, to  turn  unto  God,  to  have  faith 
in  Him,  to  keep  His  commandments, 
and  do  the  things  which  He  has  or- 
dained for  salvation;  then  lead  such 
lives  that  they  can  say  in  truth  that 
they  havte  taken  upon  them  the  name 
of  Christ. 

We,  the  Latter-day  Saints,  partake 
of  the  Sacrament  Sunday  after  Sun- 
day, and  every  time  we  do  this  we  make 
a  covenant  with  the  Lord  that  we  will 
take  upon  us  the  name  of  Christ,  and 
always  remember  Him,  and  keep  His 
commandments.  This  covenant  should 
not  be  an  idle  one.  We  should  not  light- 
ly partake  of  the  holy  emblems  of  the 
flesh  and  blood  of  Christ;  but  in  par- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


15 


taking  we  should  form  a  strong  re- 
solve in  our  minds  that  we  will  do 
these  things  which  the  one  who  blesses 
the  bread  and  the  contents  of  the  cup 
pronouces.  When  we  say  amen  to 
his  words,  we  make  them  our  own,  and 
we  should  show  in  our  lives  that  we 
mean  to  keep  the  covenant  which  we 
make. 

The  Gospel  of  Christ  as  revealed  un- 
to us  is  the  same  as  formerly.  "When 
John  was  shown  that  an  angel  should 
come  with  the  Gospel,  he  was  not  told 
that  it  should  be  a  new  Gospel,  but  it 
was  the  "everlasting"  Gospel — always 
new,  and  yet  everlasting;  the  same 
Gospel,  with  no  change  in  it.  How 
thankful  we  are,  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  the  Lord  has  been  so  gracious  un- 
to us  that  we  have  heard  the  glad  tid- 
ings of  the  Gospel  and  received  a  testi- 
mony of  its  truth-  Let  us  show  our 
gratefulness  unto  our  Heavenly  Father 
by  keeping  His  commandments  and 
performing  every  duty  required  of  us. 
It  is  the  surest  way  to  happiness;  in 
fact,  there  is  no  other  way  by  which 
we  can  be  happy  than  by  keeping  the 
comandments  of  God.  Choose  any  oth- 
er way;  feel  in  your  hearts  that  you  can 
do  as  you  please — you  have  your  free 
agency— and  it  will  not  be  long  till  you 
find  that  the  words  of  the  Master  are 
true  when  He  said,  "Whosoever  com- 
mitteth  sin  is  the  servant  of  sin."  There 
is  nothing  that  grows  quicker  upon 
anyone  than  indulgence  in  sin.  It  shows 
a  person  how  weak  he  is.  Those  who 
are  sunk  in  degradation  will  at  times 
remember  when  they  were  innocent  and 
good,  and  then  wish  they  were 
back  in  that  state;  but  when  they  at- 
tempt to  get  there  they  feel  how  weak 
they  are,  for  they  have  become  the 
slaves  of  sin.  This  should  not  be  the 
case  with  us.  After  we  have  made 
covenants  with  the  Lord,  we  should 
show  ourselves  strong  enough  to  carry 
them  out. 

The  Lord,  through  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  instructed  His  people  to 
abstain  from  certain  things  in  their 
diet,  and  if  they  would  do  it,  certain 
blessings  were  promised.  If  I  should 
ask  you,  Do  you  believe  the  Prophet 


received  that  revelation  from  God?  I 
know  you  would  say,  Yes;  and  yet,  how 
many  of  us  are  there  who  do  not  keep 
it?  I  allude  now  to  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom. Is  it  hard  to  keep?  Yes,  to  those 
who  have  indulged  in  the  things  for- 
bidden. They  have  found  that  the  bands 
have  become  so  strong  that  they  can 
hardly  break  them.  But  the  Lord  com- 
mands us  to  do  this.  Let  us  show 
that  we  have  strength.  If  we  have  it 
not,  let  us  pray  our  Heavenly  Father 
for  strength  to  withstand  these  things, 
so  that  we  can  feel  in  our  hearts  that 
we  are  trying  to  live  according  to  the 
commandments  of  God.  Science  gives 
evidence  that  the  counsels  given  in 
that  revelation  are  true  and  for  man's 
best  good.  Now,  as  we  believe  not  on- 
ly that  it  is  a  word  of  wisdom,  but  that 
it  is  the  will  of  God,  let  us  resolve  that 
we  will  keep  it.  Abstain  from  the  use 
of  tobacco,  which  is  so  hurtful  to  the 
constitution  of  man.  Abstain  from 
strong  drinks,  and  from  the  use  of  tea 
and  coffee  and  the  excessive  use  of 
meat.  Whatever  there  is  in  that  com- 
mandment, let  us  make  it  the  rule  of 
our  lives.  Will  we  regret  doing  this? 
I  remember  my  uncle  said  to  me  when 
I  would  not  take  these  things — and  he 
happened  to  offer  me  nearly  every  one 
of  them — "It  may  be  the  best  not  to 
use  them,  but  you  are  losing  many 
pleasures  in  life  by  abstaining  from 
them."  I  do  not  feel  that  this  is  the 
case.  If  we  have  not  accustomed  our- 
selves to  them,  we  will  not  miss  them. 
Those  who  have  accustomed  themselves 
to  the  use  of  such  things  and  abstain 
from  them  will  feel  a  greater  self-re- 
spect and  more  strength  to  overcome 
other  weaknesses. 

My  counsel  to  the,  Latter-day  Saints 
is  to  keep  the  AVord  of  Wisdom,  also  to 
remember  their  covenants,  lead  holy 
and  pure  lives,  and  keep  the  command- 
ments as  contained  in  the  law  and 
given  in  the  Gospel.  Remember  the 
poor,  keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy,  pay 
your  fast  offerings,  and  let  not  your 
donations  to  sustain  the  poor  be  for- 
gotten. Remember  your  tithing,  and 
every  duty  required  at  your  hands;  and 
if  you  do,  you  can  approach  our  Heav- 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


enly  Father  in  confidence  and  trust,  like 
a  child  to  its  natural  parent,  and  ask 
for  the  things  you  desire,  and  they  will 
be  yours.     God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEWIS  S.  POND, 
(President  of  Bannock  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  reporting 
my  labors  and  the  condition  of  the 
Bannock  stake  of  Zion,  I  sincerely  trust 
I  may  be  actuated  by  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  that  what  I  say  may  be  directed 
thereby.  In  the  stake  of  Zion  where  I 
preside,  our  numbers  are  not  great. 
We  have  only  10  small  wards,  and 
about  2;200  souls.  In  a  general  way,  the 
people  have  been  prosperous;  but  for 
years  past  one  portion  of  the  stake  has 
been  laboring  under  adverse  circum- 
stances, on  account  of  having  to  haul 
water  from  four  to  seven  miles.  Two 
or  three  years  ago,  however,  the  stake 
was  called  upon  to  assist  the  people  to 
get  a  portion  of  the  waters  of  Bear 
river,  at  a  cost  of  about  $60,000.  That 
has  been  accomplished,  and  many  peo- 
ple are  enjoying  the  benefits  therefrom, 
though  there  is  still  a  great  indebted- 
ness to  meet.  But  that  covers  only  a 
part  of  the  arid  lands  in  the  stake,  and 
the  people  in  some  instances  have  be- 
come discouraged.  There  has  been  a 
spirit  of  restlessness  prevailing,  and 
many  in  adverse  circumstances,  as  well 
as  some  in  better  circumstances,  have 
had  this  spirit.  Some  who  have  held 
stake  and  ward  positions  have  felt  they 
were  at  liberty  to  pull  up  and  go  to 
other  lands  just  as  they  pleased,  and 
the  effects  have  been  detrimental.  Oth- 
ers have  sought  the  counsel  of  those 
who  presided  over  them,  and  have  gone 
to  seek  better  places,  with  the  permis- 
sion and  blessing  of  the  Priesthood. 

The  stake  presidency  have  always 
been  united  in  their  labors,  so  far  as  the 
work  of  the  stake  is  concerned;  and 
the  High  Council  have  been  assiduous 
workers  in  helping  them  carry  the  great 
responsibilities.  They  have  been  called 
to  act  also  as  home  missionaries,  and 
have  done  a  good  work  in  the  midst  of 
the  people.  The  organizations  in  the 
Priesthood  are  complete,  with  the  ex- 


ception of  one  or  two  vacancies,  which 
will  soon  be  filled.  One  ward  is  at 
present  without  a  Bishop,  on  account  of 
that  officer  resigning  and  moving  to 
another  place.  The  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions are  in  a  prosperous  condition. 
Those  who  preside  in  them  are  ener- 
getic, and  willing  to  do  all  that  is  pos- 
sible. They  travel  a  great  deal  amongst 
the  young  people,  and  their  labors  are 
productive  of  good.  Most  of  these  or- 
ganizations hold  sessions  through  the 
winter  months  only,  as  many  of  our 
young  people  go  away  from  home  dur- 
ing the  summer  season  to  earn  a  liveli- 
hood. 

In  a  general  way,  there  is  a  splendid 
feeling  in  the  stake.  Of  course,  as  in 
other  stakes,  I  suppose,  we  have  a  few 
that  seem  to  think  they  do  not  have 
time  to  serve  the  Lord;  they  are  more 
willing  to  give  their  time  and  atten- 
tion to  the  things  of  this  world.  There 
is  too  much  of  a  spirit  of  speculation 
prevalent  in  the  stake;  and  those  who 
visit  the  different  wards  complain  that 
some  of  the  people  do  not  serve  the 
Lord  as  they  should  do.  Many  have  in- 
curred great  debt,  and  I  am  sorry  in- 
deed to  report  this  condition.  Many 
have  been  prosperous,  and  have  sought 
to  enlarge  their  possessions,  the  re- 
sult is  you  can  hear  them  say,  "what 
shall  I  do  to  meet  my  obligations?"  The 
implement  men,  and  other  agents  who 
pass  through  our  settlements,  seem  to 
have  greater  influence  over  some  of 
Ihe  people,  in  a  financial  way,  than  do 
those  who  preside  in  the  Priesthood. 
Many  are  buying  far  beyond  their 
means,  and  in  working  to  meet  their 
obligations  they  are  depriving  them- 
selves of  privileges  they  might  have  in 
serving  the  Lord.  , 

I  believe  our  numbers  are  increasing 
a  little.  The  water  is  being  secured 
for  arid  lands,  and  people  have  begun 
to  come  in  and  enquire  for  homes 
among  us.  Some  who  moved  there  to 
be  on  the  outskirts,  still  want  to  be  on 
the  outskirts,  and  are  selling  their 
homes  and  moving  again.  A  number  of 
very  desirable  brethren  and  sisters  have 
joined  us  recently,  and  we  invite  more 
to  come  and  make  their  homes  with 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  STEELE. 


17 


us.  Generally  speaking,  unity  prevails 
in  the  priesthood.  Those  who  are  active 
and  energetic  are  stronger  in  the  faith, 
I  believe,  than  they  ever  were.  "We  are 
striving  hard  to  bring  about  a  still 
better  condition,  both  spiritually  and 
temporally.  Our  wards  are  usually  well 
represented  in  Priesthood  meetings,  as 
are  the  auxiliary  organizations  also; 
and  in  a  general  way  the  people  take 
home  the  counsels  that  are  given,  and 
try  to  practise  every  principle  that  will 
make  them  better. 

I  trust  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will 
continue  with  us  during  the  sessions 
of  this  conference.  I  bear  testimony 
that  I  know  the  work  of  the  Lord  is 
here.  I  testifi'  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  »in  fulfillment  of  the  Sav- 
ior's words1  if  we  will  draw  near  unto 
Him  He  will  draw  near  unto  us.  I  have 
proved  this  in  my  own  experience;  the 
freedom  and  joy  which  has  been  spoken 
of  during  the  conference  has  come  to 
every  Latter-day  Saint.  The  better  we 
serve  the  Lord,  and  the  more  diligent 
we  are  in  His  service,  the  greater 
amount  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  we 
enjoy,  and  the  easier  it  is  for  us  to 
make  necessary  sacrifices.  I  pray  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  with  us 
continually,  and  that  Ave  may  take 
the  spirit  of  this  conference  to  our 
homes,  so  that  the  people  in  general 
may  be  benefitted  thereby.  I  ask  these 
blessings  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES   E.  STEELE. 

(President  of  Bingham  Stake.) 

This  seems  to  me  an  awkward  posi- 
tion to  occupy,  but  although  I  feel 
somewhat  out  of  place,  I  am  very 
pleased  to  have  the  privilege  of  making 
a  report  of  the  Bingham  Stake  of  Zion. 
The  Bingham  Stake  is  located  in  the 
southeastern  part  of  Idaho,  in  what  is 
known  as  the  Snake  river  valley.  It  is 
a  part  of  the  old  Bannock  Stake,  or,  as 
it  is  known  now,  the  Fremont  Stake. 
We  number  about  ten  thousand  souls. 
We  have  seven  or  eight  hundred  fam- 
ilies, scattered  over  a  large  area  of 
country.    We  have  twenty-four  wards 


and  seven  branches.  All  of  the  wards 
are  fully  organized,  and,  so  far  as  I 
know,  all  the  ward  organizations  are 
complete.  All  the  Stake  offices  are  full, 
with  the  exception  of  one,  and  that  is 
the  President  of  the  High  Priests'  quor- 
um; the  President  moved  from  our 
Stake,  and  the  vacancy  has  not  yet 
been  filled.  Our  High  Council  is  com- 
plete, and  its  members  are  do- 
ings a  good  work.  The  Presi- 
dency of  the  Stake  have  been 
united  on  every  question  that  has  come 
up  for  our  deliberation  since  the  Stake 
was  organized,  in  1895.  We  are  united 
with  the  High  Council,  and  with  all  our 
Bishops.  We  are  also  united  with  the 
presidencies  of  the  Stake  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations. As  far  as  I  know,  there 
is  no  contention  but  that  can  be  read- 
ily settled  between  the  members  them- 
selves. We  have  had  but  one  or  two 
High  Council  trials  since  the  Stake 
was  organized.  The  Stake  Presidency 
meet  every  Thursday,  at  2  o'clock,  and 
deliberite  upon  the  things  pertaining  to 
the  welfare  of  the  Stake.  The  High 
Council  and  the  Sltake  Presidency 
meet  once  a  month  and  counsel  togeth- 
er for  the  good  of  the  people. 

We  hpve  a  very  prosperous  commun- 
ity and  the  people  are  doing  exception- 
ally well.  We  were  largely  in  debt  a  few 
years  ago.  Many  people  who  moved 
into  the  Stake  from  Utah  had  formerly 
lived  on  a  city  lot  or  o«i  a  *>mall  tract  of 
land,  possibly  not  to  exceed  five  acres, 
and  when  they  got  into  the  Snake  Riv- 
er valley  and  procured  from  160  to  640 
acres,  th  -y  thought  they  could  buy  all 
things  they  wanted,  and  more  too,  be- 
cause th^y  had  so  much  land  at  their 
command.  But  they  soon  found  out 
their  mistake,  not,  however,  before 
many  of  them  had  to  mortgage  their 
homes  to  secure  their  indebtedness.  I 
am  very  pleased  to  report  today  that 
these  mortgages  have  largely  been  lift- 
ed. Our  counsel  tcy  the  people  has  al- 
ways been  to  keep  out  of  debt.  They 
are  now  trying  to  comply  with  it,  and 
are  relieving  themselves  of  that  bond- 
age. Our  crops  this  year  have  been 
very  good.  We  have  the  Snake  river 
to  draw  from  for  our  water  supply. 
Our  land  is  very  productive,  and  con- 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sequently  we  are  prosperous,  as  a  rule. 
I  feel  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  the 
country.  The  blessings  that  were  peti- 
tioned for  upon  the  land  by  President 
John  Taylor,  in  1884,  have  been  realized 
by  :he  Saints  of  the  Snake  River  val- 
ley; end  I  feel  that  the  Lord  will  con- 
tinue to  bless  us  if  we  will  only  keep 
His  commandments.  That  He  has  done 
so  is  my  testimony  to  you  this  after- 
noon. 

I  have  a  testimony  of  this  great  lat- 
ter-day work;  I  know  it  is  true.  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet 
of  the  living-  God,  and  those  who  have 
succeeded  him  in  the  Presidency  have 
been  men  whom  God  nas  recognized. 
They  have  been  blessed  and  clothed 
with  authority  to  lead  and  direct  the 
affairs  of  His  work  from  the  beginning 
up  to  the  present.  I  feel  with  all  my 
heart  to  sustain  them,  to  hold  up  their 
hands,  and  do  my  part  so  far  as  I  have 
power.  I  ask  God  to  bless  us,  to  uless 
our  President,  to  bless  his  associates, 
and  to  bless  all  Zion,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

Duties  and  responsibilities  of  the  Saints — Word  of 
Wisdom — Consistent  treatment  of  strangers 
who  come  among  us. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  most 
happy  in  the  privilege  of  being  with  you 
in  this  conference,  and  in  listening  to 
the  words  that  have  been  spoken  by 
our  brethren  of  the  Presidency,  as  well 
as  the  reports  made  by  the  brethren 
representing  some  of  the  Stakes  of 
Zion. 

The  duties  and  responsibilities  that 
rest  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
manifold.  But  no  duty  should  be  more 
sacred  to  them  than  a  proper  observ- 
ance in  their  own  lives  of  the  rules 
and  regulations  established  by  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  to  maintain  purity, 
uprightness  and  consistency  in  all  the 
walks  of  life.  If  the  claim  we  make  be 
true,  that  the  Father  and  the  Son  vis- 
ited the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  re- 
vealed to  him  the  character  of  the  mis- 
sion designed  for  His  people,  and  that 
mission  was  to  call  the  children  of  men 
to  repentance;  and  if  we  have  been 
made  partakers  of  the  truth,  and  sub- 


scribed to  the  conditions  associated 
with  our  entrance  into  the  waters  of 
baptism,  the  consistency  of  our  lives 
should  be  such  that  its  impress  will  be 
made  upon  the  minds  of  all  with  whom 
it  may  be  our  privilege  to  mingle.  .  No  * 
matter  how  little  they  esteem  the  faith 
we  represent;  no  matter  what  their 
prejudices  have  been,  or  how  they  may 
have  been  engendered;  if  it  shall  be 
found,  in  our  companionship  with  them, 
that  our  lives  are  above  reproach,  and 
our  course  is  in  keeping  with  the  dec- 
larations we  send  forth  to  the  world, 
that  impress  will  cause  men  and  wo- 
men to  change  their  views,  and  to  re- 
gard with  favor  and  consideration  those 
of  us  who  are  obedient  to  the  moral 
principles  and  doctrines  of  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus.  It  may  be  that 
many,  forming  their  judgment  without 
an  understanding  of  the  purpose  and 
mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  may 
fail  to  appreciate  the  character  of  the 
ministry  of  the  Saints;  but  it  has  been 
my  experience.as  I  have  mingled  among 
the  children  of  men,  that  the  more 
thoughtful  and  prudent  are  deeply  im- 
pressed with  that  proposition  presented 
in  the  scriptures,  "by  their  fruits  ye 
shall  know  them."  It  is  not  difficult  to 
lead  thoughtful  men  and  women  to 
believe  in  the  man  whose  life  is  morally 
correct,  who  by  his  actions  and  sayings 
shows  himself  to  be  temperate,  upright 
and  exemplary,  wherever  he  goes  and 
with  whomsoever  he  mingles.  I  am 
led  to  believe  that  our  mission  in  the 
world,  as  the  chosen  people  of  the  Al- 
mighty, will  be  more  perfectly  accom- 
plished by  the  upright  character  of  the 
lives  we  lead  in  our  homes  and  social 
gatherings,  in  the  impress  made  by  the 
discharge  of  private  obligations,  and 
the  fulfillment  of  such  public  duties  as 
may  be  required  at  our  hands,  with 
highmindedness,  and  a  determination 
to  uplift  and  better  the  moral  condi- 
tions of  those  with  whom  we  mingle, 
than  it  can  be  in  any  other  way.  The 
world  today  presents  thousands  of 
openings  for  men  who  are  strictly  so- 
ber, who  refuse  to  use  intoxicants  un- 
der any  circumstances,  and  who,  in 
the  fulfillment  of  their  duties  in  lift, 
have  displayed  a  proper  regard  for  the 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


19 


Tights  and  liberties  of  their  fellows,  and 
handled  with  consistency  and  honesty 
the  trusts  reposed  in  them.  I  believe 
that,  in  the  providences  of  the  Al- 
mighty, it  is  His  purpose  to  equip  and 
prepare  His  people  to  become  the  aids 
and  helps  in  government,  in  all  parts 
of  the  land.  But  we  can  never  attain 
the  place  it  is  His  purpose  we  should 
until  we  have  thoroughly  indoctrinated 
ourselves  in  an  understanding  of  every 
moral  principle,  and  have  a  full  com- 
prehension of  the  great  responsibility 
imposed  upon  us  in  the  handling  of 
obligations  and  trusts.  Our  lives 
must  be  in  harmony  with  everything 
that  is  pure,  honest  and  upright. 

The  faith  we  have  received  covers 
every  principle  necessary  to  the  equip- 
ment and  preparation  of  men  and  wo- 
men for  the  duties  and  responsibilities 
of  the  temporal  as  well  as  the  spiritual 
life.  The  doctrines  of  the  Redeemer  af- 
fect not  only  the  spiritual  wellbeing, 
they  apply  also  to  the  moral  and  tem- 
poral welfare  of  mankind.  He  laid  upon 
each  one  the  obligation  to  observe  the 
moral  principles  and  doctrines  of  the 
Gospel,  and  that  it  is  his  duty  to  con- 
form to  the  ordinances  of  God's  house, 
and  walk  in  harmony  with  the  rules 
laid  down  by  Him.  He  also  pointed  the 
way  to  the  great  possibilitiese  confront- 
ing our  Father's  children,  sought 
to  impress  uport*them,  in  such  form 
that  there  could  be  no  misunderstand- 
ing His  purpose,  His  wishes  as  af- 
fecting their  conduct  in  life.  "Thou 
shalt  not  lie,"  was  the  declaration  of 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  Are  we 
obedient  to  the  mandate?  Have  we 
followed  this  rule?  Have  we  written 
upon  our  minds  the  thought  that  the 
duty  is  ours  to  guard  against  the  pos- 
sibility of  being  a  liar?  "Thou  shalt 
not  steal,"  is  the  declaration  of  the 
same  great  leader  of  men.  Are  we 
mindful  of  that  declaration?  Has  it 
truly  found  lodgment  in  our  hearts?  Is 
it  written  in  the  fibers  of  our  being? 
Are  we  applying  it  as  thoroughly  in  the 
discharge  of  the  duties  that  rest  upon 
us  as  we  should  do?  Let  eve';'  man 
and  woman  ask  themselves  these  ques- 
tions, and  see  if  the  answer  can  truth- 
fully come  from  their  own  lips,  These 


requirements  given  by  the  Redeemer 
to  the  world  have  been  accepted  by  me, 
and  have  been  applied  in  my  own  life 
to  the  best  of  my  ability.  "Thou  shalt 
not  commit  adultery."  "Thou  shalt  not 
kill."  "Though  shalt  not  bear  false 
witness  against  thy  neighbor."  Are 
these  propositions  with  us  in  spirit  and 
in  truth?  Have  they  riveted  themselves 
upon  our  minds  in  such  form  that 
wherever  we  go,  and  with  whomsoever 
we  mingle,  we  maintain  our- 
selves free  from  these  griev- 
ous errors  against  which  the 
warning  voice  of  the  Redeemer  was 
uttered.  I  trust  we  have  weighed  these 
propositions  rightly,  thoroughly  com- 
prehend their  import,  and  are  striving 
to  comply  with  them,  so  that  none  can 
question  the  consistency  of  our  utter- 
ances and  examples. 

President  Lund,  in  his  remarks, 
touched  upon  the  question  of  the  ob- 
servance of  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  It  is 
a  singlar  thing  that  there  should  exist 
any  necessity,  among  a  people  so  fully 
taught  in  regard  to  the  sacredness  of 
that  requirement  of  the  Lord,  for  re- 
peated admonitions  .  concerning  it.  It 
was  first  given  to  us  as  instruction  from 
the  Lord,  without  constraint,  and  later 
more  fully  impressed  upon  our  minds 
by  the  declaration  of  the  prophet  of 
God  that  it  was  in  force  upon  us  as  a 
requirement.  But  little  by  little  we 
drift  with  the  stream,  and  it  is  dif- 
ficult to  find  among  the  Saints  entire 
families  that  are  truly  seeking  to  be  in 
harmony  with  that  principle.  What  a 
work  could  be  accomplished  in  the 
world  today  if  every  man,  woman  and 
child  who  have  been  baptized  into  the 
Church  would  truly  practise  that  prin- 
ciple! What  an  influence  in  the  world 
for  good  we  would  be  if  ourselves,  our 
children,  and  our  children's  children, 
would  follow  the  good  example,  in  this 
respect,  of  the  patriarchs  of  the  past! 
Men  and  women  say,  sometimes,  they 
are  too  old  to  do  it.  If  the  generations 
who  were  conversant  with  the  restored 
work  of  God,  in  the  early 
rise  of  the  Church  had  as 
fully  obeyed  the  requirements 
of  the  Gospel  as  they  should 
have   done,   concerning  the  Word  of 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Wisdom,  there  would  now  be  found  but 
few  of  our  sons  recreant  to  their  re- 
sponsibilities in  the  line  of  temperate 
and  consistent  lives;  there  would  more 
rarely  be  found  among  our  daughters 
those  whose  lives  are  rendered  unhappy 
because  of  nervous  troubles,  superin- 
duced by  the  use  of  narcotics  forbidden 
by  the  law  of  God;  there  would  more 
seldom  be  found  boys  or  old  men  shat- 
tered in  their  physical  structures  by 
the  use  of  tobacco,  and  in  large  meas- 
ure unfit  for  the  duties  and  responsibili- 
ties of  life.  There  would  be  a  still  larg- 
er number  of  men  and  women  so  fully 
established  in  every  moral  principle, 
and  every  temperate  thought  and  idea, 
that  wherever  they  went  in  the  world 
their  conduct  and  example  would  write 
itself  upon  the  minds  of  men  and  im- 
press them  most  favorably.  , 

Upon  one  occasion  it  was  my  privilege 
to  be  in  company  with  a  large  body 
of  gentlemen,  a  number  of  whom  were 
of  our  own  faith.  In  this  assembly  was 
a  man  quite  eminent  in  the  sphere  in 
which  he  moved.  He  had  been  an  in- 
tense temperance  orator  and  laborer 
in  temperance  interests.  After  study- 
ing and  watching  the  character  of  the 
people  who  formed  that  association,  he 
made  this  remark  to  me:  "I  have  not 
discovered  in  this  company  a  single 
man  claiming  to  be  of  your  faith  who  is 
a  user  of  intoxicants  or  tobacco;  and 
while  I  have  been  in  their  companion- 
ship I  have  not  heard  one  of  them  pro- 
fane the  name  of  Deity."  This  had 
made  a  wonderful  impression  upon  his 
mind.  If  this  so  impressed  one  man, 
what  would  be  the  impression  upon  the 
world  at  large  if,  as  a  people,  we  would 
fully  apply  these  laws  in  our  lives  as 
we  mingle  among  the  children  of  men? 

My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  these  are 
questions  for  our  consideration.  They 
are  for  us  to  weigh  and  study.  Before 
us  is  the  world,  to  whom  the  truth  of 
the  Gospel  we  have  received  is  to  be 
preached.  It  must  be  carried  to  every 
land,  to  every  people.  Its  extension 
and  spread  can  be  brought  about  more 
successfully  by  the  honesty,  the  truth- 
fulness, the  temperance  and  the  in- 
dustry of  those  who  have  received  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  than  by  all 


the  words  that  we  may  speak.  The 
conditions  that  surround  the  people, 
the  efforts  they  make  to  hold  them- 
selves in  subjection  to  the  divine  will, 
impress  those  who  come  into  their  com- 
panionship. 

I  say  to  you  that  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  are  true;  every  one  that  God 
has  revealed  is  true.  He  has  laid  the 
foundation  for  the  development  of  His 
great  work  upon  legitimate  lines.  He 
knows  the  condition  of  His  children  in 
all  the  world.  He  has  put  upon  us  the 
responsibility  of  establishing  in  our 
own  homes,  so  far  as  may  lie  within 
our  power,  the  elements  of  truth  in 
such  form  that  its  impress  will  continue 
to  grow  and  spread  until  all  shall  come 
to  an  understanding  of  the  Gospel  and 
receive  it. 

Standing  here  before  you,  I  desire  to 
bear  witness  to  the  correctness  of  the 
views  presented  by  President  Smith,  in 
sending  forth  his  warning  voice  against 
the  tendency  to  get  into  debt.  The 
growth  of  business,  the  enlargement  of 
our  own  concerns,  the  hope  of  a  suc- 
cessful issue  as  we  step  into  the  busi- 
ness world,  lead  us  into  further  invest- 
ments, until  perchance  we  And  we  have 
completely  overreached  ourselves.  It 
is  these  matters  that  we  want  to 
guard  against.  Not  that  we  should  not 
take  advantage  of  e^ery  desirable  op- 
portunity for  legitimate  business.  We 
should  seek  to  secure  means  as  far  as 
we  can  consistently  tP  aid  in  the  de- 
velopment of  our  commonwealth,  to 
provide  for  the  needs  and  necessities  of 
those  who  are  dependent  upon  us,  and 
to  open  the  door  by  which  they  who  are 
in  need  may  be  furnished  employment. 
Nor  should  we  forget  those  who  come 
to  us  as  strangers  from  strange  lands, 
and  are  of  our  own  faith.  These  are 
matters  upon  which  ajl  of  us  should  re- 
flect. Another  thought  presents  itself 
to  my  mind,  it  is  this:  I  believe  there 
is  a  degree  of  negligence  upon  our  part 
in  looking  after,  as  fully  as  we  should, 
the  strangers  that  come  into  our  midst. 
Men  drop  down  among  us  who  may  be 
of  our  faith,,  and  who  not 
being  conversant  with  our  lan- 
guage, find  themselves  in  a 
trying   situation.     I    am    fearful  that 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


21 


the  same  thoughtful  attention  is  not 
now  given  to  this  class  of  people  that 
was  extended  to  them  in  former  day^: 
and  that  too  frequently  they  pass  into 
the  society  of  persons  who  embitter 
their  minds  against  the  truth,  causing 
them  to  regret  their  alliance  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  hope  you  will 
think  of  these  things,  my  brothers  and 
my  sisters,  and  that,  so  far  as  possible, 
all  things  will  be  done  upon  your  part 
that  shall  tend  to  guide  these  new- 
comers along  the  pathway  of  truth  and 
righteousness.  People  gather  some- 
times on  their  own  responsibility,  and 
drop  into  neighborhoods  without  realiz- 
ing the  character  of  their  surroundings. 
Our  thoughtlessness,  perchance,  per- 
mits them  to  pass  beyond  the  pale  of 
our  communion  into  the  hands  of  oth- 
ers who  impress  them  with  the  thought 
that  what  they  have  come  to  receive 
is  not  here,  and  that  they  have  been 
misled. 

My  brothers  <^nd  my  sisters,  the  Gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus  is  indeed  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation.  Every  one 
of  us  should  obey  its  requirements.  The 
souls  of  our  fellowmen  should  be  most 
sacred  to  us;  and,  so  far  as  lies  within 
our  power,  we  should  put  them  in  the 
way  of  the  accomplishment  of  a  life 
work  that  shall  be  creditable  to  them- 
selves and  prove  a  blessing  to  us.  The 
Gospel  is  true.  May  heaven  enable  us 
to  obey  its  commandments,  live  in  har- 
mony with  its  principles;  fulfill  the 
duties  and  responsibilities  that  rest  Up- 
on us,  being  true  to  our  obligations! 
guarding  the  rights  and  liberties  of  our- 
selves and  of  our  fellowmen  that  the 
well-being  of  all  our  Father's  chil- 
dren shall  be,  indeed,  sacred  to  us;  and 
that  we  shall  not  faij  in  the  accom- 
plishment of  the  proclamation  of  His 
word,  the  establishment  of  His  work, 
the  betterment  of  the  condition  of  His 
children;  that  when  we  shall  march 
forward  to  our  reward,  He  may  say  to 
us,  "Thou  hast  performed  thy  part  in 
Judgment  and  mercy,  and  hast  blessed 
those  with  whom  thou  hast  mingled, 
and  iniured  none."  May  heaven's  bless- 
ings abound  with  you;  and  may  the 
truth  extend  and  spread  until  righteous- 
ness shall  prevail  among  the  children 


of  men,  and  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  ameliorate  the  condition  of  the 
human  family,  causing  them  to  glorify 
the  name  of  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
and  His  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed 
in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live,  is 
my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Unfold, 
Ye  Portals  Everlasting." 

ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 

An  era  of  opportunity — About  indebtedness — Keal 
objects  of  mssionary  work — Progress  of  aux- 
illiary  organizations— Duties  of  parents — Re- 
spect for  Church  officei  s. 

My  dear  brothers  and  sister,  I  trust 
that  the  Lord  may  inspire  the  words  I 
shall  speak  to  you.  I  feel  deeply  inter- 
ested in  the  work  in  which  we  are  en- 
gaged, and  in  the  general  welfare  of 
this  people.  I  know  that  the  Lord  is 
accomplishing  a  great  and  a  marvelous 
work  through  His  servants  and  hand- 
maidens, who  have  been  obedient  to 
the  principles  of  life  and  salvation  as 
revealed,  in  these  latter  days,  through 
the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith.  It  is  .indeed,  pleasing  to 
hear  of  the  growth  of  the  stakes  of 
Zion,  and  the  splendid  prospects  there 
are  before  us  at  home.  This  is  an  era 
of  opportunity  for  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  There  never  was  a  time  I  can 
remember  when  there  were  so  many  ex- 
cellent opportunities  before  this  people 
for  the  development  of  their  resources, 
for  home  building,  for  the  cultivation  of 
the  soil,  for  the  establishment  of  in- 
dustries, and  for  employment.  Today 
men  who  want  work  can  And  it.  The 
establishment  of  various  industries  has 
opened  new  avenues  for  the  employ- 
ment of  both  young  and  old,  and  there 
need  be  no  unemployed  among  us.  If 
we  can  only  keep  busy,  and  retain  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  we  will  be  able  to 
maintain  our  standing  as  the  people 
of  God. 

While  most  of  the  reports  have  been 
very  pleasing,  it  is  lamentable  to  hear 
of  the  indebtedness  existing  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  reported  by 
some  of  the  brethren.  How  many  have 
mortgages  upon  their  homes  today,  not- 
withstanding  we    have    been  always 


22 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


counseled  not  to  go  in  debt?  True, 
there  may  be  conditions  when  men,  in 
order  to  save  their  honor,  are  com- 
pelled to  incur  debt;  but  such  cases  are 
rare.    We  have  been  counseled  all  the 
time  in  regard  to  this,  and  also  in  re- 
gard to  other  things  we  have  not  been 
entirely  obedient  to.     The  result  is, 
many  of  our  Elders,  when  called  to  go 
into  mission  fields,  and  labor  to  spread 
the  Gospel  among  those)  who  sit  in  dark- 
ness, have  to  excuse  themselves,  for 
the  reason  they  are  under  an  obligation 
of  debt,  and  are  therefore  unable  to  re- 
spond to  the  call.     This,  indeed,  is  an 
unfortunate  condition  of  affairs.  We 
ought  to  be  obedient  to  the  counsels  of 
the  servants  of  God.     We  should  be 
willing  and  prepared  to  go  wherever  and 
whenever  we  are    sent,     and  perform 
whatever  labor  we  are  called  to  engage 
in.     No  matter  how  apparently  insig- 
nificant the  labor  may  be,     if  we  are 
where  the  Lord  wants  us,  we  ought  to 
be  satisfied.     In  listening   to  Brother 
Grant,  it  occurred  to  me,  that  his  report 
would  at  least  be  encouraging  to  some 
of  our  mission  presidents,  who  probably 
feel  they  are    not     accomplishing  as 
much  in  spreading    the  work  as  they 
would  like  to  do,  and  who  receive  no 
encouragement  but  that  which  they 
get  from  the  Lord.      Here  is  Brother 
Grant,  one  of  the  best    preachers  we 
have  in  the  Church,  and  eleven  other 
missionaries  who  have     been  fifteen 
months  in  Japan  and  have  baptized  on- 
ly three  souls,  yet,  no  doubt,  they  have 
labored  with  as  great  diligence  as  any 
missionaries  could  do.     Our  mission  is 
not  to  go  out  for  the  sole  purpose  of 
seeing  how  many  we  can  baptize.  Our 
mission  is  to  convert  people,  and  we 
want  to  be  sure  they  are  converted  be- 
fore they  are  led  into  the  waters  of 
baptism.      We  do  not  want  people  to 
accept  the  Gospel  and  afterwards  turn 
from  it.     Better  that  they  had  never 
received  it.  We  should  be  satisfied  they 
are  thoroughly  converted  to  the  prin- 
ciples which  God  has  revealed  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  before  they 
are  baptized.     While,  perhaps,  conver- 
sions in  the  world  have  not  been  num- 
erous during  the  past  year,    yet  the 


labors  of  the  Elders  have  been  assidu- 
ous and  untiring;  they  have  been  de- 
termined that  people  should  understand 
the  Gospel  before  being  encouraged  to 
accept  the  ordinances  of  baptism,  and 
the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  reception 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Some  of  our  pessi- 
mistic friends  entertain  the  idea  that 
the  work  of  the  Lord  is  not  advancing 
much,  but  that  idea  is  not  correct;  there 
never  was  a  tim|e  when  such  excellent 
reports  were  received  from  the  various 
auxiliary  organizations  as  are  being  de- 
livered today.  I  am  sure  there  never 
was  anything  like  it  in  the  history  of 
Mutual  Improvement  and  Sunday 
school  work.  It  is  encouraging  to 
know  that  the  young  men  and  women 
born  in  the  Church,  and  those  who  are 
being  brought  into  thle  Church  today, 
have  such  a  good  understanding  of  the 
Gospel  that  they  rarely  apostatize,  or 
place  themselves  in  a  condition  that 
makes  it  necessary  to  excommunicate 
them.  Of  course,  here  and  there  we 
hear  of  apostasy,  or  transgression;  and 
yet  I  know  wards  in  this  Church,  that 
have  beien  organized  fifteen  or  twenty 
years,  where  there  has  never  been  a 
case  of  immorality  on  the  part  of  the 
members.  Wte  must  bear  in  mind  we 
are  a  large  body  of  people,  and,  of 
course,  we  hear  occasionally  of  cases  of 
transgression;  but  I  maintain  that  such 
things  are  becoming  less  and  less  fre- 
quent among  us.  I  believe  that,  as  a 
rule,  the  young  men  and  young  women 
feared  in  this  Church  will  not  permit 
it  to  be  truthfully  said  of  them  that 
they  have  disregarded  the  faith  of  their 
fathers  and  mothers,  and  gone  astray. 
When  children  go  astray,  and  exhibit  no 
faith  in  the  Gospel,  I  believe  that,  In 
nine  cases  out  of  ten,  they  are  from 
families  wherein  the  parents  have  never 
taken  the  pains  to  gather  their  children 
around  them,  and  teach  them  the  word 
of  God,  morning  and  evening;  where 
they  have  never  taught  them  to  pray, 
or  where,  in  their  children's  presence, 
they  have  spoken  evil  against  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God.  They 
may  not  have  wanted  their  children  to 
become  apostate,  and  yet  they  have, per- 
haps unconsciously,  sown  the  seeds  of 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF, 


23 


apostasy  in  their  hearts  by  speaking 
evil  of  those  whom  it  was  their  duty  to 
sustain  and  uphold. 

To  make  good  Latter-day  Saints,  we 
must  respect  our  ward  teachers,  and 
teach  our  children  to  do  the  samte.  We 
must  respect  our  ward  and  stake  offi- 
cers, not  ignore  them  and  yet  profess 
great  devotion  to. the  president  of  the 
Church,  or  to  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
other  men  in  high  standing.  The  man 
who  in  his  heart  is  loyal  to  thte  presi- 
dent of  the  Church  is  the  man  who 
honors  his  Deacon,  his  Teacher,  his 
Bishop,  and  his  stake  officers;  he  does 
not  jump  over  their  heads,  on  the 
slightest  excuse,  and  go  to  the  president 
of  the  Church  with  little  questions  and 
troubles  that  ought  to  be  settled  at 
home.  I  know  there  are  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints  men  who,  if  Presi- 
dent Smith  should  ask  them  to  do  any- 
thing, would  get  up  and  do  it  in  a  hur- 
ry; but  if  their  Bishop  or  their  ward 
teacher  asked  them  to  do  anything  they 
would  think  it  too  insignificant.  I 
think  they  are  insignificant,  for 
the  reason  they  have  not  learned  to 
honor  the  order  of  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Son  of  Cod.  They  have  not  learned  to 
respect  the  men  whom  the  Lord  de- 
sires them  to  sustain.  If  I  were  choos- 
ing a  body  of  men  who  could  be  depend- 
ed upon  to  always  do  the  right  thing 
in  this  kingdom,  I  would  choose  men 
who  honor  the  Deacons,  Teachers,  and 
Bishops,  who  uphold  the  lesser  as  well 
as  the  higher  Priesthood;  and  who  are 
good,  reliable  men  in  their  respective 
wards,  not  men  who  work  only  on  dress 
parade.  Almost  any  one  will  do 
that,  but  it  is  not  every  one  who 
will  get  down  and  dig,  who 
will  work  in  the  wards,  and  labor  dili- 
gently for  the  upbuilding  of  the  king- 
dom of  God  when  probably  they  are 
seen  only  by  the  Lord.  If  I  were  pre- 
siding ovjer  a  mission,  I  would  think 
very  little  of  an  Elder  who  would  work 
only  when  I  was  with  him,  or  who,  if 
he  were  not  told  just  what  to  do,  would 
sit  down  at  mission  headquarters  and 
do  nothing. 

It  is  in  these  little  affairs  of  life  that 
we  show  our  love  for  the  work  of  God. 


If  we  really  love  the  work,  there  is 
nothing,  no  matter  how  small  it  may 
be,  that  we  will  not  be  glad  to  do  for 
the  upbuilding  of  the  kingdom,  whether 
it  be  seen  of  men  or  not.  God  sees  and 
knows  our  labors,  and  he  will  reward  ua 
sooner  or  later,  according  to  the 
deeds  done  in  the  flesh.  There- 
fore, I  pray  that  we  may  give  more 
attention  to  the  details  of  life.  Let  us 
take  time  to  instruct  our  children  in 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  that  they 
may  grow  up  with  faith  in  the  Lord; 
and  do  not  shift  this  responsibility  on 
to  the  Sabbath  school  or  the  Mutual 
Improvement  Association.  Let  us  in- 
still into  the  hearts  of  those  in  our 
own  homes  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel,  and 
through  the  consistency  of  our  lives,, 
and  the  help  of  our  Heavenly  Father,, 
inspire  others  with  faith  in  the  work 
God  has  called  us  to  represent.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  are  as  a  light  set  up- 
on a  hill,  which  cannot  be  hid.  Peo- 
ple watch  our  actions  and  note  our 
lives.  What  a  beautiful  thing  it  would 
be  if  we  were  all  living  according  to 
the  laws  of  the  Gospel,  as  we  ought  to 
do!  How  many  more  people  would  have 
their  hearts  touched  by  tne  truth  if  we 
were  living  it  in  our  homes,  as  we  are 
taught  to  do.  The  trouble  is,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  we  do  not  take 
seriously  some  of  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  that  have  been  revealed.  From 
their  actions,  many  Latter-day  Saints 
evidently  think  that  wnen  the  Lord 
gave  the  Word  of  Wisdom  He  was  not 
in  earnest,  that  He  did  not  mean  what 
He  said;  for  they  have  gone  right  along 
drinking  tea  and  coffee,  and  smoking, 
as  if  not  a  word  had  been  said.  They 
have  been  telling  their  children  all  the 
time  that  these  things  are  not  good 
for  them,  and  yet  they  themselves  have 
been  indulging  in  them  continuously. 
What  will  such  parents  say  if  their 
children  turn  away  from  the  truth,  and 
point  to  them  as  the  cause  of  it?  What 
if  a  son  or  daughter-  shall  say,  "The 
reason  I  have  no  faith  in  this  latter- 
day  work  is  because  my  father  and 
mother  were  inconsistent  in  their  lives, 
they  taught  me  to  do  what  they  would 
not  do  themselves?  Will  parents  seek 
to  destroy  faith  in  the  hearts  of  their- 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


children  in  this  way?  Those  who  do, 
the  sins  of  the  children  will  be  upon 
their  heads,  just  as  sure  as  the  Lord 
lives. 

God  bless  you,  my  brothers  and  sis- 
ters. May  He  give  us  the  spirit  of 
this  work.  May  we  understand  that  the 
time  has  come  when  we  must  be  Saints 
in  the  home  as  well  as  in  public  posi- 
tion; that  we  must  honor  the  Priest- 
hood of  the  Son  of  God  in  the  ward,  as 
well  as  in  the  stake  and  in  the  Church. 
If  we  would  be  blessed,  we  must  take 
the  counsel  that  has  been  given  here 
in  regard  to  being  free,  temporally  and 
spiritually — free  from  sin  and  free  from 
debt.  May  God  put  it  into  our  hearts 
to  receive  this  counsel  as  it  comes  to 
us  from  time  to  time,  and  give  us  cour- 
age and  strength  to  carry  it  out.  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with 
Jehovah; 

Jesus   anointed   that   "Prophet  and 

Seer" — 

Blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation; 
Kings  shall  extol  him  and  nations  re- 
vere. 

Benediction  by  Presiding  Patriarch 
John  Smith. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

An  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  hall,  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Elder 
Matthias  F.  Cowley,  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  presiding.  The  Temple 
choir  sang,  "Ere  long  the  veil  will  rend 
in  twain."  Prayer  by  Elder  Samuel 
Woolley.  Sisters  Owen  and  Clayton 
sang  the  duet,  "In  Thy  Temple."  Chor- 
us by  the  choir. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  M'MURRIN. 

It  is  very  gratifying,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  see  the  hosts  of  Latter-day 
Saints  who  have  assembled  upon  this 
the  opening  day  of  conference,  to  wor- 
ship the  Lord.  I  have  rejoiced,  in  com- 
mon with  you;  in  the  excellent  spirit 
that  was  present  in  the  meeting  this 
morning,  and  greatly  enjoyed  the  in- 
structions that  were  imparted  by  the 
President,   and  by  Apostle   Grant.  I 


sincerely  hope  that  we  may  be  blessed 
in  this  meeting  with  the  same  spirit, 
that  our  hearts  may  be  made  glad  in 
the  things  of  God,  and  that  we  may 
feel  it  is  a  blessed  privilege  we  enjoy 
to  be  numbered  among  the  Saints  in 
this  last  dispensation. 

I  cannot  help  but  feel  that  there  is, 
in  this  great  assemblage,  a  remarkable 
evidence  of  the  glorious  fact  that  as  a 
people,  as  a  church,  we  are  in  existence 
by  the  appointment  of  our  great  Father 
and  God;  that  our  organization  has  not 
been  produced  by  the  wisdom  of  men, 
but  has  come  from  above.  We  are  as- 
sembled in  this  house,  which  has  been 
erected  for  worshiping  purposes,  and 
in  the  Tabernacle  there  is  a  vast  con- 
course of  people,  but  these  two  build- 
ings are  not  sufficient,  and  there  is  an 
open  air  meeting  on  the  grounds  of  this 
block,  that  those  who  are  out- 
side of  these  buildings  may  also  have 
the  opportunity  of  hearing  the  servants 
of  the  Lord.  "When  we  think  of  the 
small  beginning  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  then 
view  the  host  of  people  assembled  upon 
this  block  today,  we  ought  to  feel  that 
the  words  of  the  Lord,  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  are  verily  com- 
ing to  pass.  We  heard  Elder  Grant  this 
morning  refer  to  the  fact  that  it  had 
been  predicted  by  the  Prophet  that 
there  was  to  come  a  time  when  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  would  no  longer  find  an 
abiding  place  in  the  state  of  Illinois, 
or  any  other  state  in  the  east,  but  that 
it  was  their  destiny,  and  the  decree  of 
our  Father  in  heaven,  that  they  should 
go  to  the  Rocky  mountains;  and  that 
the  time  was  to  come  when  they  would 
be  a  great  and  mighty  commonwealth. 
We  truly  witness  the  fulfillment  of  this 
prophecy  in  the  conditions  that  prevail 
today  in  this  state,  and  in  the  sur- 
icunding  country;  and  yet  we  only  wit- 
ness a  fulfillment  in  part.  It  is  easy 
to  see  that  it  is  the  destiny  of  this  peo- 
ple to  spread  out,  and  become  much 
greater  than  they  are  at  the  present 
time.  • 

In  some  of  the  travels  that  I  have 
made  of  late  I  have  been  impressed 
with  the  fulfillment  of  this  prediction. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 


25 


It  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  visit  the 
stakes  that  are  established  in  Arizona, 
and  the  stake  in  Mexico,  and  also  the 
stakes  in  Canada— or  the  stake  there 
formerly  that  has  been  divided  recent- 
ly— and  to  visit  the  people  who  have 
been  established  in  the  Big  Horn  ba- 
sin, in  Wyoming.  In  making  these 
journeys  I  have  been  greatly  impressed 
with  the  feeling  that  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  of  the  Lord  are  having  a  re- 
markable fulfillment.  I  am  confident 
that,  in  the  future  of  this  work,  they 
will  be  completely  fulfilled.  We  are 
not  yet  the  mighty  people  we  are  to 
become  in  the  midst  of  these  mountains. 
It  is  the  decree  of  our  Father  in  heaven, 
it  was  His  decree  ages  ago,  before  the 
Prophet  Joseph  had  an  existence  upon 
the  earth.  It  was  the  theme  of  the 
ancient  prophets  when  they  thought 
about  Zion  and  the  latter  times;  when 
.  they  were  filled  with  the  inspiration  of 
the  Almighty.  At  those  times  they 
wrote  and  spoke  of  the  latter  days,  and 
they  were 'filled  with  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord  in  talking  of  Mount  Zion,  in 
describing  its  barrenness;  and  in  saying 
it  was  the  destiny  of  the  people  of  the 
Lord  in  the  latter  times  to  subdue  the 
wilderness,  and  to  make  the  barren 
places  blossom  and  become  beautiful. 
This  has  been  our  mission,  as  a  people, 
to  subdue  barren  land,  to  go  out  into 
new  sections  of  country  and  open  up 
locations  for  habitation,  that  the  in- 
creasing multitudes  might  have 
place  on  which  to  dwell.  While 
we  hear  from  time  to  time, 
from  the  leaders  of  the  people, 
that  it  is  not  profitable,  nor  in  har- 
mony with  the  spirit  and  genius  of  the 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  for 
members  of  the  Church  to  be  running 
hither  and  thither  in  search  of  new 
places  for  homes,  it  has  always  been, 
and  I  suppose  it  always  will  be,  neces- 
sary for  locations  to  be  selected,  un- 
der the  appointment  of  the  Priesthood, 
that  room  may  be  made  for  the  Israel 
of  God.  It  gladdens  my  heart,  and  fills 
me  with  joy,  when  I  witness  the  condi- 
tion of  the  people,  and  the  growth  and 
expansion  that  is  and  has  been  taking 
place.   While  there  are  many  thousands 


of  people  assembled  here,  we  are  but  a 
small  multitude  compared  with  the 
hosts  assembled  in  the  various  wards 
of  Zion  in  religious  worship  today.  We 
are  but  as  a  drop  in  the  bucket  when 
compared  with  the  tens  and  hundreds  of 
thousands  who  know  that  God  has 
spoken,  that  the  words  of  the  prophets 
are  beginning  to  come  to  pass,  and  that 
Zion  is  being  established  in  the  tops  of 
the  mountains,  in  fulfillment  of  those 
prophecies. 

We  are  not  only  fulfilling  the  predic- 
tions of  the  prophets  in  relation  to  our 
location,  but  there  is  abundant  evi- 
dence in  the  doctrines  that  are  advo- 
cated, that  were  revealed  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  to  establish  the 
fact  that  we  have  not  been  organized 
by  the  wisdom  of  men,  and  we  are 
very  thankful  for  it.  It  has  not  been 
in  the  power  of  man,  in  any  age  of  the 
world,  to  give  the  children  of  men 
an  organization  such  as  we  have  today. 
There  is  nothing  like  it  recorded  in 
history  from  the  beginning  of  time 
down  to  the  present  day.  There  can 
never  be  anything  like  it,  unless  it  be 
revealed  from  God;  it  is  above  and  be- 
yond the  wisdom  and  power  of  men. 

In  visiting  the  California  mission  re- 
cently, I  was  greatly  impressed  with 
the  feeling  that  we  should  rejoice  in 
the  doctrines  of  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
and  in  the  evidences  that  exist  in  the 
revelations  that  have  been  given 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
proving  his  divine  inspiration.  I  desire 
to  read  a  few  words  that  were  written 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph: 

"Every  spirit  of  man  was  innocent  in 
the  beginning,  and  God  having  redeem- 
ed man  from  the  fall,  men  became 
again  in  their  infant  state,  innocent 
before  God." 

I  thought  of  these  words  when  I  met 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  city 
of  Los  Angeles.  A  few  months  ago  a 
great  gathering  of  ministers  of  the 
Presbyterian  church,  after  discussing 
this  doctrine  for  a  long  time,  having 
believed  and  taught  that  infants  who 
had  not  been  baptized,  or  who  had  not 
been  christened,  were  damned,  decided 
that  this  doctrine  should  no  longer  be 
a  part  of  their  faith.    How  was  it,  I 


26 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE, 


would  like  to  ask,  that  Joseph  Smith, 
without  any  theological  education,  so 
far  as  the  education  given  by  men  is 
concerned,  could  write  these  glorious 
words,  "Every  spirit  of  man  was  in- 
nocent in  the  beginning,  and  God  hav- 
ing redeemed  man  from  the  fall,  men 
became  again  in  their  infant  state,  in- 
nocent before  God?"  Who  can  consist- 
ently disbelieve  this  glorious  doctrine 
announced  by  Joseph  Smith?  Every 
child,  it  matters  not  of  what  parentage, 
whether  white  or  black,  bond  or  free, 
Christian  or  pagan,  through  the  atone- 
mtnt  wrought  by  the  Redeemer  of  men, 
is  made  innocent  before  our  Father 
in  heaven.  This  doctrine  was  announc- 
ed in  another  revelation,  from  which  I 
desire  to  read: 

"But,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  lit- 
tle children  are  redeemed  from  before 
the  foundation  of  the  world,  through 
mine  Only  Begotten;  wherefore,  they 
cannot  sin,  for  power  is  not  given  unto 
Satan  to  tempt  little  children  until  they 
begin  to  become  accountable  before 
me." 

This  revelation  was  given  in  1S30,  at 
the  commencement  of  the  wonderful 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  Inas- 
much as  men  of  wisdom  and  education, 
from  a  worldly  point  of  view,  have 
been  discussing  this  doctrine  for  many 
years,  we  might  well  ask  the  question, 
how  was  it  that  Joseph  Smith  received 
this  knowledge  so  much  in  advance  of 
his  time?  For  it  is  a  long  time  since 
Joseph  Smith  announced,  in  the  name 
of  the  Redeemer,  this  truth  that  has 
recently  been  adopted  by  one  of  the 
greatest  religious  roganizations  extant 
among  men,  and  that  is  now  believed 
by  millions  of  others. 

It  is  too  much  to  believe  that  Joseph 
Smith  discovered  this  by  his  own  wis- 
dom, that  he  studied  it  out  himself. 
But  it  is  very  reasonable  for  us  to 
assume  that  it  was  revealed  to  him  by 
ouf  Father  in  heaven,  and  accept 
its  truth  without  any  argument. 
He  made  the  startling  announce- 
ment— for  it  was  startling  in  the  day 
in  which  it  was  given — that  all  children 
are  saved,  through  the  atonement  of 
our  blessed  Redeemer.  There  is  a 
breadth,  there  is  a  depth,  there  is  a 


glory  to  that  doctrine  that  stamps  it  as= 
coming  from  a  divine  source.  This  same 
doctrine  is  stated,  in  positive  language, 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  the  writings 
of  the  Prophet  Moroni,  who  lived  on 
this  continent  many  years  ago.  It  has 
always  been  understood,  and  always 
been  a  doctrine  of  the  Church,  when- 
ever there  has  been  an  inspired  Priest- 
hood among  men.  God  never  created 
His  children  to  damn  them,  without 
giving  them  an  opportunity  to  hear  and 
understand  His  precious  word. 

"Well,  I  say  when  I  think  of  these 
things — and  they  are  only  one  or  two 
of  the  truths  revealed  to  the  prophet,  it 
is  burned  upon  my  soul  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  called  of  God;  that  he  was 
a  prophet  of  God;  that  he  did  not  es- 
tablish an  organization  according  to  the 
ideas  of  men;  that  he  did  not  introduce 
as  doctrines  the  ideas  of  men;  that  he 
gave  to  the  peoples  of  the  earth  princi- 
ples of  eternal  truth,  as  they  were  re- 
vealed to  him  by  our  Heavenly  Father. 

I  do  not  feel  that  it  would  be  proper 
for  me  to  trespass  longer  upon  the  time. 
I  rejoice  in  this  glorious  work.  I  thank 
God  with  all  my  soul,  and  I  have  never 
found  words  to  express  my  gratitude, 
that  my  parents,  in  the  long  ago,  away 
off  in  Scotland,  in  the  great  city  of 
Glasgow,  heard  and  believed  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel.  O,  I  thank  God  their 
hearts  were  touched.  I  thank  the  Lord 
they  were  converted,  and  that  they  were 
drawn  into  the  fold  of  the  good  Mas- 
ter, and  that  because  of  their  faith,  and 
their  firmness,  and  their  love  of  truth, 
they  came  to  Zion,  and  I  was  born  in 
these  mountains  of  Israel  and  was 
reared  in  the  midst  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  In  traveling  through  the  cities 
of  the  old  world,  especially  in  my  fa- 
ther's native  land,  and  witnessing  some 
of  the  things  that  are  to  be  seen  there, 
and  in  thinking  of  what  might  have 
been,  I  felt  as  though  I  could  fall  down 
and  worship  my  father  and  mother  for 
my  birth  here,  for  their  coming  out  of 
the  world,  and  believing  the  truth  of 
God,  as  revealed  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  I  am  not  a  believer  in 
Joseph  Smith  because  of  my  birth.  I 
know  by  investigation,  I  know  through 
prayer,  and  I  know  through  revelation 


ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD. 


27 


from  the  Almighty,  that  the  doctrines 
given  through  Joseph  Smith  are  the 
doctrines  of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation.  It  is  the 
truth;  it  cannot  he  destroyed;  it  cannot 
be  overturned;  it  cannot  be  stopped  in 
its  advancement,  in  penetrating  the 
hearts  of  men,  in  gathering  the  honest 
from  the  nations  of  the  earth.  It  can- 
not be  stayed.  God  has  so  decreed  it, 
and  God  has  always  fulfilled  His  de- 
crees, and  will  continue  to  do  so. 

God  help  us  to  believe  the  truth  and 
to  sustain  it.  and  to  maintain  and  up- 
hold the  authority  that  God  has  given 
us,  that  we  may  be  blessed,  is  my 
prayer,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  EDWARD  J.  WOOD, 
(President  of  Alberta  Stake.) 
I  am  very  pleased,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  meet  with  so  many  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  also  a  pleasure 
that  we  are  favored  with  such  a  beau- 
tiful day,  and  that  so  many  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  have  come  together  to 
worship. 

I  feel  honored  in  being  requested  to 
represent  the  Alberta  Stake,  in  the  far 
north.  The  people  there  are  as  good  as 
can  be  found  in  any  of  the  Stakes  of 
Zion  I  have  visited.  I  regard  it  as  a 
privilege  to  live  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  to  be  associated  with  them.  I 
will  state,  for  the  benefit  of  those  who 
are  not  acquainted  with  our  people  in 
the  north,  that  we  are  in  a  prosperous 
condition;  that  the  stake  is  building  up 
and  increasing  in  numbers.  Our  people 
are  prospering  financially;  and  improv- 
ing spiritually.  The  wards  are  becom- 
ing numerous;  and  consequently  our 
stake  has  been  divided  recently.  We 
very  much  appreciated  the  presence  of 
the  First  Presidency,  and  a  number  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  at  our  last  quar- 
terly conference,  which  was  held  in 
September  at  which  time  the  Alberta 
Stake  was  divided,  and  a  new  Stake, 
known  as  the  Taylor  Stake,  created.  I 
am  grateful  to  be  associated  with  you 
in  this  conference,  and  to  be  a  par- 
taker of  the  good  things  and  the  good 
Spirit  that  is  felt  by  all  of  us.  I  have 
always  been  proud  of  bearing  the  name 


of  Latter-day  Saint.  It  is  gratifying  to 
know  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  stands  for  ad- 
vancement continually,  that  it  teaches 
all  of  us  to  become  better  men  and  Wo- 
men, better  boys  and  girls,  better  from 
the  cradle  to  the  grave. 

In  listening  to  the  remarks  of  Broth- 
er McMurrin,  the  object  of  our  being 
here  on  earth,  and  the  glorious  privi- 
leges we  have  of  being  members  of  the 
Church  of  Christ,  came  to  my  mind 
forcibly.  I  see  those  present  who  have 
gathered  from  many  nations  of  the 
earth,  and  who  have  a  desire  to  learn 
what  will  be  best  for  them  to  do  in 
order  that  they  may  please  their  Hea- 
venly Father.  It  is  sometimes  a  great 
sacrifice  for  our  brethren  and  sisters  to 
come  from  their  homes  in  the  different 
nations.  I  have  been  on  a  foreign  mis- 
sion and  know  something  about  the 
difficulties  they  have  to  pass  through; 
and  I  esteem  a  man  or  woman  who  ex- 
tends the  hand  of  kindness  to  them 
when  they  emigrate  to  this  country. 

I  have  been  reading,  while  sitting 
here,  a  beautiful  hymn  on  prayer,  a 
subject  which  should  receive  considera- 
tion from  all  of  us: 

"Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere  desire, 

Uttered  or  unexpressed; 
The  motion  of  a  hidden  fire 

That  trembles  in  the  breast." 

How  beautiful  it  is  to  come  together 
and  -engage  in  prayer.  In  listening  to 
the  appropriate  prayer  this  morning  by 
Brother  Penrose,  I  thought  what  a  de- 
sirable thing  it  is  to  know  how  to  ex- 
press ourselves  in  prayer.  Our  children 
should  be  taught  at  home  to  pray,  and 
in  the  different  organizations  for  the 
training  of  youth.  How  gratifying  it 
would  be  if  all  children  knew  how  to 
pray,  and  properly  understood  what  to 
ask  for. 

"Prayer  is  the  burden  of  a  sigh, 

The  falling  of  a  tear, 
The  upward  glancing  of  an  eye, 

When  none  but  God  is  near." 

We  should  accustom  ourselves  to  pr-ay 
in  secret,  and  thus  have  communion 
with  our  Heavenly  Father;  and  exercise 
faith  that  our  prayers  may  be  ans- 
wered.   In  my  experience,  I  have  never 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


seen  a  prayerful  member  of  the  Church 
go  astray. 

"Prayer  is  the  simplest  form  of  speech 

That  infant  lips  can  try, 
Prayer,     the    sublimest    strains  that 
reach 

The  Majesty  on  high. 

This  is  a  particular  point  to  which  I 
wish  to  call  attention:  Through  prayer 
we  are  made  one,  and  there  is  nothing 
impossible  for  us  to  accomplish  when 
we  become  a  united  prayerful  people. 
In  that  condition  we  would  more  fully 
appreciate  the  authority  of  the  Priest- 
hood here  upon  earth,  and  cheerfully 
carry  out  what  the  servants  of  God  ask 
us  to  do. 

"The  Saints  in  prayer  appear  as  one 

In  word,  in  deed,  in  mind, 
While  with  the  Father  and  the  Son 

Their  fellowship  they  find. 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 
"Trust  in  the  Lord"  was  sung  by  a 
quartet  of  the  Temple  Choir. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  very  in- 
spiring to  me  to  observe  the  congregat- 
ing of  the  Latter-day  Saints  at  a  general 
conference  of  the  Church.  It  increases 
my  faith  and  causes  me  to  rejoice,  be- 
cause it  is  an  evidence  of  the  fact  that 
God  is  with  His  people.  It  is  a  mani- 
festation of  the  love  that  is  in  the 
hearts  of  the  people  for  the  precious 
truths  of  the  everlasting  Gospel.  It  is 
an  evidence  that  the  Gospel  is  bearing 
fruit  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
that  a  people  is  being  raised  up  with  a 
desire  to  know  the  will  and  the  mind 
of  the  Lord.  They  come  from  the  far 
north  and  the  far  south,  from  the  east 
and  the  west,  and  from  all  the  Stakes 
of  Zion.  Representatives  from  all  the 
settlements  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
have  come  up  hither  to  worship  the 
Lord  our  God,  and  to  be  taught  in  His 
ways. 

Of  course  there  is  plenty  of  room  for 
improvement;  but  I  do  not  know  of  a 
people  who  have  so  great  a  desire  in 
their  hearts  to  overcome  their  weak- 
nesses and  imperfections,  and  to  grow  in 
the  knowledge  of  God,  as  do  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  We  are  probably  the 
only  people  who  believe  in  immediate 


revelation  from  God;  at  least,  I  have 
never  come  in  contact  with  any  other 
community  that  so  generally  believes 
that  God  manifests  His  divine  will  to 
the  individual  man  or  woman,  and  that 
through  the  observance  of  the  laws 
which  have  been  revealed,  and  the  com- 
mandments which  have  been  given,  we 
can  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  our  Hea- 
venly Father.  I  do  not  know  another 
community  that  is  seeking  to  gain  sal- 
vation by  inculcating  the  doctrine  that 
"this  is  eternal  life;  To  know  Thee,  the 
only  true  and  living  God."  We  are  the 
only  people  I  am  acquainted  with  who 
are  endeavoring  to  come  to  a  knowledge 
of  God,  in  order  that  we  might  indeed 
obtain  eternal  life.  In  evidence  of  this 
desire,  the  people  come  up  from  all 
parts  of  Zion  to  hear  the  living  oracles 
of  God,  those  who  have  been  called  and 
ordained  to  stand  at  the  head  of  this 
people  and  to  deliver  unto  them  the 
word  of  the  Lord.  When  I  observe  the 
great  concourse,  not  only  in  this  build- 
ing, but  in  the  larjje  Tabernacle,  and 
out  in  the  open  air  on  this  block,  as 
referred  to  by  Brother  McMurrin,  and 
see  our  streets  literally  thronged  with 
the  multitudes  who  have  come  to  the 
city  of  the  center  stake  of  Zion,  that 
they  might  be  taught  in  the  ways  of 
the  Lord,  I  tell  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  it  is  an  inspiring  occasion  to 
me;  and  it  fills  me  with  a  desire  and 
with  an  ambition  to  know  more,  and  to 
advance  and  grow  in  the  knowledge  of 
God.  It  thrills  my  whole  being,  from 
the  crown  of  my  head  to  the  soles  of  my 
feet,  because  I  realize  that  these  feel- 
ings not  only  fill  my  bosom,  but  they 
are  in  the  hearts  of  this  great  multi- 
tude of  Latter-day  Saints. 

"By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them." 
What  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  do- 
ing for  us?  In  what  manner  are  we  be- 
ing bettered  by  yielding  obedience  to 
the  laws  of  God,  as  contained  in  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  as  made 
known  to  us  through  His  servants  from 
time  to  time?  Are  we  refraining  from 
those  things  that  are  forbidden,  and 
are  we  seeking  to  do  works  of  right- 
eousness. I  believe  that  a  great  and 
glorious  work  is  being  accomplished  in 
this  direction    among   the  Latter-day 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 


2!> 


Saints,  and  that  there  is  a  desire  in 
their  hearts  to  overcome  their  petty 
weaknesses  and  faults. 

A  short  time  ago  I  had  occasion, 
which  I  frequently  have,  of  talking  to 
my  own  boys.  I  desired  to  show  them 
the  difference  between  an  honest  man 
and  a  thief.  You  know,  of  course,  that 
there  is  a  great  deal  of  difference  be- 
tween these  two  propositions,  and  how 
easy  it  is  to  learn  to  distinguish  the 
two  men.  You  may  see  a  man  walking 
along  the  street,  a  man  who  is  known 
for  his  good  works,  and  you  know  him 
by  his  every  day  conduct,  and  some  will 
say,  'There  goes  an  honest  man."  Now, 
how  did  they  find  out  that  he  was  an 
honest  man?  There  are  a  great  many 
men  of  whom  we  do  not  bear  this  tes- 
timony. We  do  not  feel  at  liberty  to 
speak  of  some  men  and  say  that  they 
are  honest  men,  simply  from  the  fact 
that  they  have  never  been  caught  in  do- 
ing a  dishonest  deed,  not  by  any  means. 
A  great  many  thieves  have  not  been 
detected.  There  are  many  men  and 
women  who  are  dishonest,  and  yet  they 
have  never  been  convicted,  for  it  has 
never  been  found  out  by  anyone;  but, 
because  of  something  in  their  conduct 
and  lives,  no  one  would  ever  say  of 
them  that  they  are  honest.  With  the 
honest  man  it  is  different;  there  is 
something  in  his  character  that  mani- 
fests itself.  Honesty  oozes  out  of  his 
very  being.  You  can  see  in  every 
act  of  his  life  that  he  is  hon- 
est and  upright.  He  does  not 
do  anything  in  a  stealthy  manner;  it 
is  not  born  in  him,  and  It  does  not 
manifest  itself  in  his  daily  life.  It  is 
the  Gospel  that  is  developing  these 
traits  of  character  in  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  It  is  the  observance  of  the  law 
of  tithing  that  is  helping  to  develop 
noble  attributes  in  the  children  of  men. 
We  learn  to  overcome  our  selfishness 
and  greed  for  gain,  inasmucn  as  we  live 
according  to  the  laws  of  the  Gospel. 
That  is  what  the  Gospel  will  do  for  us. 
By  observing  those  principles  which 
our  Father  has  revealed  to  us  we  are 
enabled  to  show  the  positive  features 
of  honesty,  and  not  the  negative  fea- 
tures of  dishonesty.  We  live  above  the 
law  when  we  manifest  honesty,  integ- 


rity and  virtue;  these  attributes  are 
characteristics  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
That  is  the  effect  the  Gospel  is  hav- 
ing upon  all  those  who  are  striving  to 
live  up  to  its  divine  teachings.  I  re- 
joice in  this  Gospel  that  we  have  re- 
ceived, for  the  reason  that  it  lifts  us  up 
and  brings  us  nearer  to  our  Father  in 
heaven;  and  when  these  fruits  are  be- 
ing made  manifest  among"  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  we  have  cause  to  rejoice. 

There  are  many  men  who  are  dishon- 
est and  many  who  are  thieves.  Now,  I 
would  not  like  to  accuse  a  young  man 
who  works  in  a  store  of  being  a  thief 
simply  because  he  may  put  his  hand  in- 
to a  barrel  of  nuts  and  take  and  eat  one 
of  them.  If  that  young  r.*an  should  ^do 
that  in  the  presence  of  his  employer, 
it  might  probably  be  said  that  he  re- 
ceived the  silent  consent  of  his  employ- 
er; but,  if  he  waits  for  an  opportunity 
when  no  one  is  looking,  and  takes  and 
eats  one  of  those  nuts,  that  is  the  act 
of  a  thief.  If  a  person,  with  the  intent 
to  deceive  and  to  rob,  ana  with  such 
thoughts  in  his  heart,  takes  that  which 
does  not  belong  to  him,  it  is  a  stealthy 
act,  and  he  is  a  thief.  Many  persons 
have  developed  this  quality,  though 
they  may  not  have  been  detected  and 
arrested;  they  are  thieves;  everybody 
acquainted  and  familiar  with  such  an 
individual  will  feel  there  is  something 
in  his  nature  that  debars  confidence. 
You  cannot  trust  him.  An  employer 
would  not  entrust  him  with  his  money, 
or  give  him  the  control  of  his  busi- 
ness. 

Now,  we  have  been  reading  in  the  pa- 
pers recently  of  people  called  shoplift- 
ers, who  enter  into  stores  and,  when  no 
one  is  looking,  will  put  an  article  un- 
der their  cloak  or  secrete  it  in  some 
manner  and  carry  it  off.  One  "lady" 
that  I  heard  of  took  a  beautiful  and 
valuable  hat,  worth  about  $30  from  a 
certain  dry  goods  establishment, without 
being  seen.  The  hat  was  missed  the 
same  night,  and  all  the  clerks  were 
asked  if  they  had  sold  it,  but  they 
said  they  had  not.  The  following  Sun- 
day one  of  the  employes  of  the  store 
discovered  a  lady  at  church  with  this 
identical  hat  upon  her  head.  Next 
Monday  morning  it  was  reported,  and  a 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


bill  for  $30  was  sent  to  the  lady,  and  a 
check  came  back  very  promptly  indeed. 
I  might  mention  the  fact  to  the  ladies 
that  there  are  some  advantages  in  tak- 
ing your  hats  off  in  church.  (Laughter.) 
I  would  not  like  to  infer,  though,  that 
there  are  ladies  here  who  have  on  hats 
that  do  not  belong  to  them.  That  is 
one  instance  in  which  a  thief  came  to 
light.  There  are  others  who  are  sus- 
pected of  doing  the  same  thing.  Why? 
Because  there  is  something  in  their 
conduct  that  does  not  inspire  confi- 
dence. 

Now,  the  Gospel  teaches  us  to  love 
honesty  for  honesty's  sake;,  to  love 
virtue  for  virtue's  sake,  and  to  exhibit 
the  positive  qualities  that  go  to  make 
up  our  individual  characters.  A  per- 
son who  has  this  reputation  and  the 
confidence  of  the  people,  and  in  whom 
you  can  see  the  manifestations  of  hon- 
esty on  every  hand,  will  be  trusted,  and 
no  one  will  suspect  him  of  doing  any- 
thing wrong;  they  would  think  it  ab- 
solutely impossible  for  a  person  of  that 
kind  to  be  guilty  of  a  dishonest  act. 
That  is  what  I  like  to  see  demonstrated 
and  exhibited  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

I  also  have  a  testimony  that  this  is 
the  work  of  the  Lord  in  which  we  are 
engaged.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  Prophet  sent  of  God.  Every 
where  we  see  the  evidence  of  his  divine 
mission.  A  few  of  those  evidences  were 
pointed  out  by  Elder  McMurrin  here, 
and  I  was  very  much  pleased  with  the 
testimony  he  bore.  Such  a  testimony 
can  be  enjoyed  by  all  of  us.  How  grate- 
ful we  ought  to  feel  to  our  Heavenly 
Father,  we  who  have  been  born  under 
the  new  and  everlasting  covenant,  for 
the  great  privilege  we  have  had,  and 
for  the  blessings  we  enjoy.  I,  too,  am 
grateful  that  my  parents  embraced  the 
Gospel  and  came  out  to  the  land  of 
Zion;  and  that  they  sacrificed 
all  they  had  in  the  world 
and  identified  themselves  with 
the  people  of  God.  I  am  proud 
of  the  fact  that  my  father  yielded  obe- 
dience to  the  principles  of  the  Gospel. 
I  am  proud  of  the  heritage  he  has 
given  to  me.  O  how  I  wish  I  could 
make  others  feel  the  same  as  I  do  re- 


garding the  privilege  of  being  born  in 
Zion. 

Have  we  obtained  the  testimonies 
that  we  have  from  our  parents?  No. 
The  testimonies  that  we  have  gained 
have  come  through  the  inspiration  of 
the  Spirit  of  God,  "For  no  man  know- 
eth  the  things  of  God  but  by  the 
Spirit  of  God  that  is  in  him."  A  few 
days  ago  I  was  conversing  with  a 
brother,  a  good  Latter-day  Saints,  at 
least  I  had  always  considered  him  a 
good  Latter-day  Saint,  and  he  is 
generally  reputed  to  be  one — and 
he  told  me,  much  to  my  astonishment, 
that  he  was  rather  skeptical  as  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  having  a  knowledge 
that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  He  said, 
"we  get  up  and  bear  testimony  that  we 
know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God, 
that  we  know  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  God;  but  I  arm  a  little  skep- 
tical on  that  point."  He  further  said, 
"When  I  went  on  my  mission  I  made  it 
a  point  never  to  say  that  I  knew  these 
things  to  be  true."  I  said:  Well, 
brother,  some  men  have  come  to  an 
absolute  knowledge  of  those  things. 
"Well,  possibly,"  said  he,  "but  I  hardly 
think  they  have."  We  got  to  talking 
of  the  sons  of  perdition,  and  he  said 
he  did  not  believe  that  Judas  knew  that 
Jesus  was  the  Christ.  I  said,  Perhaps 
not;  but  Peter  knew  it,  because  our 
Father  had  revealed  it  to  him,  and  if 
Peter  had  done  what  Judas  did,  there 
is  no  Question  but  what  he  would  have 
become  a  son  of  perdition.  Then,  I 
said,  there  was  also  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  who  saw  the  Father  and 
the  Son.  He  said,  "I  am  a  little  skep- 
tical about  that."  I  was  astonished. 
This  man,  claiming  to  be  a  Latter-day 
Saint,  felt  that  he  could  not  believe  that 
with  all  his  heart.  He  said  that  when 
he  was  on  his  mission  he  only  testified 
once  that  these  things  were  true;  he 
said  he  could  not  help  himself  on  that 
occasion.  He  stated  to  me  that  he  be- 
lieved with  all  his  heart  that  this  was 
the  work  of  God;  that  he  was  willing  to 
die  for  it,  if  necessary,  and  to  do  any- 
thing on  earth  to  further  it;  but  he  said 
he  would  not  say  he  knew  the  Gospel 
was  true.  On  the  occasion  referred  to 
he  said  he  could  not  help  it;  he  felt 


ELDER  HEBER  S.  ALLEN. 


31 


in  his  whole  being  that  if  he  did  not 
declare  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Pro- 
phet of  God  he  would  be  damned.  I 
told  him  he  would  have  been  damned 
if  he  had  not  borne  this  testimony,  and 
that  the  reason  he  felt  and  spoke  as  he 
did  was  because  he  had  the  Spirit  of 
God,  for  no  man  could  know  that  with- 
out he  had  the  Spirit  of  God.  I  took  it 
for  granted  he  would  thus  learn  that 
the  reason  he  does*not  know  it  now  is 
because  he  has  not  the  Spirit  of  God. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  live 
in  such  a  way  and  manner  that  we 
may  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  God  at  all 
times,  that  we  may  have  a  testimony 
of  the  truth,  and  never  doubt  that  the 
Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  at  the  beginning  of 
this  great  latter-day  work.  We  oaght 
to  feel  greatful  in  our  hearts  that  this 
testimony  is  with  us.  May  God  help 
up  to  be  faithful  to  the  end,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  S.  ALLEN. 
(President  of  Taylor  Stake). 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  very 
much  in  need  of  your  sympathy  and 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  while  I  stand  be- 
fore you  this  afternoon,  because  I  feel 
very  weak  indeed  in  addressing  this 
vast  audience. 

I  certainly  appreciate  the  privilege  of 
meeting  with  the  Saints  in  general  con- 
ference, and  I  appreciate  the  friendship, 
love  and  confidence  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

"While  I  have  never  had  the  privilege 
of  going  abroad  among  the  nations  of 
the  earth  to  promulgate  the  Gospel  in 
which  we  are  engage  J,  I  have  spent 
perhaps  the  best  part  of  my  life  in  a 
foreign  land— or  at  least  what  is  to  the 
people  of  the  United  States  a  foreign 
land— in  Canada.  I  am  glad  my  lot 
has  been  cast  in  that  land.  A  great 
many  people  in  Utah  and  other  places 
know  but  little  about  Canada;  they  feel 
we  are  away  off  on  the  outskirts,  and 
that  we  do  not  have  the  advantages  en- 
joyed here  and  elsewhere.  Of  course, 
there  are  many  things  you  have  and 
-"ojoy  that  we  do  not  have.     But  we 


can  say  that  the  Lord's  hand  has  been 
over  us  for  good.     President  Card  was 
called  by  President  Taylor  to  go  there. 
I  remember  that,  about  fifteen  years 
ago,  President  Card  related  a  dream  he 
had.     He  said  that  when  he  first  went 
to  Canada  everything  looked  forbid- 
ding, and  only  a  few  of  our  people 
accompanied  him  to  that  country  the 
first  season.      He  dreamed  he  saw  a 
hive  of  bees,  or  at  least  a  few  bees,  and 
more  continued  to  come,  until  the  hive 
they  had  entered  became  too  full,  and 
they  swarmed  and  went  out,  and  other 
colonies  were  formed.  Now,  that  dream 
has  been  fulfilled,  I  have  lived  to  see 
it.     The  beginning  in  that  country  was 
a  very  small  one,  but  the  Saints  have 
kept  "swarming,"  and  new  settlements 
have  been  formed,    until  they  became 
so  numerous  that  the  stake  had  to  be 
divided  and  a  new  one  created.  While 
we  have  had  a  great  many  difficulties 
to  contend  with,  which  are  incidental 
to  the  establishment  of  homes  in  a  new 
country,  the  hand  of  the  Lord  has  been 
over  the  people.     T  presume  the  Taylor 
stake  of  Zion,  which     was  organized 
about  a  month  ago, is  the  smallest  stake 
in     the     Church,     that     is     as  to 
the  number  of  wards;  we  have  but 
three  at  the  present  time.  However, 
we  have  between  3,000  and  3,500  peo- 
ple in  those  three  wards.  .  They  are  the 
newest   settlements   of  our   people  in 
Canada,  two  of  them  having  been  found- 
ed about  four  years  ago,  under  the  di- 
rection   of    President    Woodruff  and 
President  Snow,  and  the  other  is  only 
about  two  years  old.    Now,  while  we 
are  a  very  small  stake  in  that  country, 
we  do  not  expect  to  remain  thus  long. 
I  believe  that  within  three  years  the 
Taylor  stake  will  be  larger  than  the 
whole  of  the  Alberta  stake  was  previ- 
ous to  the  division.    We  have  a  large 
country  to  grow  in,  and  when  the  di- 
viding lines  between  the  two  stakes 
were  set,  Apostle  Taylor  said  it  would 
extend  from  the  United  States  bound- 
ary line  to  the  north  pole;  so  we  have 
much  room  in  which  to  grow. 

I  do  not  believe  in  people  leaving 
their  good  homes  in  Utah  to  go  to 
Canada.    I  believe  the  advice  President 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Smith  gave  in  the  morning  meeting 
was  good;  I  know  it  is,  for  I  have  had 
experience  in  that  country,  and  I  would 
not  advise  people  who  own  comfortable 
homes  to  go  to  Canada.  There  is  much 
room  for  good  homes  in  that  country; 
but  we  do  not  want  people  to  emigrate 
to  that  land  without  the  advice  and 
consent  of  those  who  preside  over  them. 

There  is  a  great  gathering  of  young 
people  in  that  land;  the  Lord  has 
blessed  us  abundantly  in  that  respect. 
The  last  census  shows  that  one-third  of 
the  entire  people  are  under  eight  years 
of  age;  so,  within  25  years  we  will 
build  up  a  great  country  there,  without 
any  more  emigration  to  assist  us. 

The  Saints  there  have  a  good  name. 
We  are  striving  to  build  up  the  king- 
dom of  God,  and  are  interested  in  all 
the  affairs  of  Zion.  We  like  to  mingle 
with  the  brethren  and  sisters  of  other 
stakes  to  learn  how  they  are  doing 
things.  I  was  much  gratified,  on  my 
way  from  Canada,  to  see  the  improve- 
ments in  meetinghouses  in  Pocatello 
stake,  and  also  in  Utah  stake,  which  I 
visited  recently.  We  attended  Priest- 
hood meeting  in  Provo  yester- 
day and  gained  something  there. 
The  progress  the  Saints  are  mak- 
ing is  gratifying  to  me.  We  in  Canada 
hope  to  prove  to  the  king,  and  his  rep- 
resentatives who  preside  over  the  af- 
fairs of  the  Dominion,  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  what  they  profess  to  be, 
a  God-fearing  people.  We  desire  to 
become  a  people  who  will  be  recog- 
nized as  the  most  virtuous  in  all  of  the 
king's  domains;  that  is  what  we  are 
striving  to  be,  and  I  believe  we  are  at 
the  present  time.  We  aim  to  be  the 
most  honest  and  most  law-abiding  peo- 
ple that  the  king  has.  We  desire  to 
set  an  example  in  all  of  our  settlements 
to  all  people  who  are  looking  for  that 
which  is  good,  noble  and  elevating. 

I  believe  ours  is  the  only  district  in 
western  Canada  where  prohibition  pre- 
vails. The  laws  in  Canada  permit  the 
people  to  decide  whether  liquor  shall  be 
sold  in  their  settlements  or  not,  and  if 
three-lifths  are  in  favor  of  its  not  be- 
ing sold,  it  is  prohibited,  so  far  as  open 
saloons  are  concerned.      The  "Mor- 


mons" in  western  Canada  have  the 
name  of  being  the  only  community  that 
has  taken  advantage  of  this  law;  the 
saloons  in  our  midst  were  abolished  a 
little  over  a  year  ago,  and  we  now  have 
none. 

In  all  our  organizations  we  are 
doing  a  good  work;  and,  although 
we  are  a  long  way  from  head- 
quarters, I  feel  we  are  not  be- 
hind some  of  "the  other  stakes 
in  many  things.  Our  Sunday  schools 
are  doing  exceedingly  well,  as  are  also 
the  Mutual  Improvement  associations; 
and,  while  we  have  but  two  stakes  in 
that  region  today,  I  believe  we  will 
have  many  within  a  few  years. 

The  Lord  has  blessed  us  temporally, 
but  we  feel  that  the  temporal  blessings 
are"  not  those  the  Saints  should  seek  for 
most.  There  are  things  more  import- 
ant for  the  Latter-day  Saints  than  tem- 
poral blessings — though  if  we  can  get 
the  temporal  along  with  the  spiritual, 
so  much  the  better— but  we  feel,  as  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  that  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  the  principles 
it  teaches  are  dearer  to  us  than  any- 
thing else  on  earth.  If  all  our  people 
will  continue  to  feel  that  way,  honor 
the  Priesthood  and  strive  to  magnify 
it  in  all  the  affairs  of  life,  we  will  be- 
come a  power  for  good  in  the  king's  do- 
minion. 

I  presume  there  are  hundreds  here  this 
afternoon  who  know  the  Gospel  is  true, 
that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true,  and 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  estab- 
lished, through  the  help  of  the  Lord,  the 
work  of  God  upon  the  earth.  They  know 
this  and  do  not  guess  at  it.  I  know 
that  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God 
is  with  us,  the  Lord  has  given  that  tes- 
timony to  me  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  I  could  not  deny,  it,  for  He 
has  manifested  the  truth  of  this  work 
to  me  on  many  occasions. 

If  all  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  es- 
pecially those  who  hold  the  Priesthood, 
could  fully  understand  the  great  re- 
sponsibilities they  have  taken  upon 
themselves  in  receiving  a  portion  of  the 
Priesthood,  and  live  up  to  their  knowl- 
edge, we  would  be  a  much  greater  pow- 
er in  the  land  than  we  are  today.  I  have 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


33 


noticed  in  the  papers,  that,  in  referring 
to  the  success  and  advancement  of  the 
Saints,  they  attribute  it  to  various 
causes.  Some  say  it  is  irrigation  that 
has  made  the  Latter-day  Saints  great; 
others  say  it  is  the  cunning  of  the  fi- 
nancier, because  of  the  money  accumu- 
lated through  the  tithes  of  the  people. 
But  we  know  these  things  are  only  a 
secondary  consideration.  We  know  that 
the  Priesthood  which  the  Lord  has  re- 
stored to  the  earth  in  this  day  and  age 
of  the  world,  and  the  power  it  gives  to 
us,  and  our  being  baptized  into  one 
body  and  one  spirit,  is  the  foundation 
of  the  success  of  the  great  latter-day 
work.  Take  these  away  and  we  will  be 
just  as  other  men  and  women  are.  I 
wish  that  all  the  Latter-day  Saints 
could  realize  and  feel  alike  in  relation 
to  these  things;  and  that  every  man 
who  holds  the  Priethood,  could  realize 
that  nearly  everything  depends  upon 
how  we  magnify  that  Priesthood. 

The  people  of  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
some  of  them,  recognize  that  there  is  a 
power  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
they  do  not  meet  elsewhere.  The  people 
of  Canada,  those  who  have  launched 
large  colonization  schemes,  acknowl- 
edge there  is  a  peculiar  power  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints  .that  has  enabled 
them  to  become  established  in  that 
land,  and  that  has  helped  them  to  ac- 
complish all  they  have  done.  They  can- 
not understand  this,  but  they  acknowl- 
edge it;  and  they  know  there  is  some 
characteristic  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
something  in  their  communism  that 
holds  them  together  that  is  not  found 
in  other  communities  in  the  Northwest 
Territories.  The  Latter-day  Saints  in 
Canada  have  made  greater  progress 
than  any  other  colonies  have  done  in 
the  same  length  of  time.  "We  attribute 
this  to  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  to  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  and  to 
the  Spirit  we  enjoy;  and  I  rejoice  in 
all  these  things.  I  wish  that  all  men 
would  be  honest  and  sincere  enough  to 
investigate  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  promul- 
gating in  the  world. 

I  feel  well,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  rejoice  that  my  parents  embraced 
the  Gospel,  and  that.  I  have  been  born 


under  the  new  and  everlasting  cove- 
nant; I  fear  if  I  had  not  been  thus 
favored  I  would  not  now  be  a  member 
of  the  Church.  I  am  grateful  for  all 
these  things,  and  for  the  progress  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  made.  I  hope 
to  see  Zion  arise  and  shine  until  she 
becomes  the  glory  of  the  whole  earth, 
and  that  all  men  and  women  shall  feel 
to  say,  "Let  us  not  go  up  to  fight 
against  Zion  because  of  her  terrible 
ones."  May  th"e  Lord  bless  us,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 

To  the  Latter-day  Saints  these  great 
gatherings  are  a  source  of  strength  and 
hope,  and  enjoyment.  I  believe  that, 
through  thus  meeting  together  and  par- 
taking of  the  Spirit  that  the  Lord  pours 
out  upon  His  children,  and  by  receiving 
the  words  which  are  spoken  by  the  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord,  we  go  home  filled 
with  a  greater  incentive  to  serve  God 
and  to  keep  His  commandments. 

We  should  be  impressed  with  the  re- 
mark of  President  Smith  this  morning, 
that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  not  a  temporary 
organization,  but  that  it  is  an  organiza- 
tion which  is  permanent,  'which  is  and 
will  be  everlasting.  It  has  been  found- 
ed by  God  Almighty,  and  He  has  placed 
His  stamp  of  approval  upon. His  peo- 
ple, and  will  ever  do  so,  if  they  will 
keep  His  commandments  and  walk  in 
His  paths.  To  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
the  walking  in  the  paths  of  righteous- 
ness, the  keeping  of  the  commandments 
of  God,  and  the  enjoyment  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  ought  to  be  a  source  of 
satisfaction  and  gratification  beyond 
the  power  of  words  to  express.  We 
ought  to  strive,  individually,  to  make 
the  Church  of  Christ  stronger.  The 
Church  ought  to  be  strong,  because  of 
the  multitude  of  its  members;  and  each 
member  should  take  a  particular  pride 
in  adding  strength  to  the  Church  be- 
cause he  or  she  is  a  member  of  it. 

We  have  the  privilege  of  knowing  of 
a  surety  that  this  is  the  work  of  God. 
It  is  no  chance  proposition  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints;  it  is  a  surety.  There 
is  no  doubt  in  the  mind  of  a  conscien- 


34 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


tious  and  fully  converted  Latter-day 
Saint  that  God,  the  Father,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  His  Son,  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  appeared  in  person  to  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith.  That  is  a  knowledge 
that  is  possessed  by  tens  of  thousands 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  it  is  a  knowl- 
edge, furthermore,  that  can  be  gained 
and  possessed  by  every  individual  born 
into  this  world,  if  that  individual  will 
but  follow  the  instructions  given  of  the 
Lord  whereby  men  can  come  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth.  "Why,  our  chil- 
dren know  it;  the  little  boys  and  girls 
of  the  Sabbath  schools  know  it.  They 
are  taught  it,  and  learn  .it  in  their  as- 
sociations with  one  another  and  with 
the  people  of  God;  and  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  which  is  upon  and  in  them  bears 
witness  to  them,  even  as  children,  that 
the  things  their  parents  teach,  and 
which  are  taught  by  their  Sunday 
school  teachers,  and  by  those  who  hold 
the  Priesthood,  are  true.  The  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  bears  that  witness,  and 
there  is  no  doubt  in  their  minds;  it  is  a 
knowledge;  it  is  just  as  simple  and  easy 
to  understand  as  the  simplest  proposi- 
tion that  any  child  may  learn.  Not- 
withstanding this,  there  are  those  in 
our  midst  for  the  purpose,  so  they  say, 
of  reclaiming  us,  and  converting  us  to 
the  standard  of  Christ,  as  they  term  it. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  stands  in  this  world  to- 
day for  purity,  for  honesty,  for  right- 
eousness, for  virtue,  for  truth,  for  no- 
bleness, and  for  every  good,  beautiful 
and  glorious  principle  that  has  ever 
been  made  known  to  man.  The  Church 
of  Christ  stands  for  all  these  things, 
and  it  is  the  only  organization  in  the 
world  today  that  has  the  pure  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ,  as  the  Sa- 
vior Himself  taught  it  when  He  was 
upon  the  earth.  It  is  just  as  ridiculous 
for  those  not  of  us,  who  do 
not  understand  the  Gospel  of  Christ, 
who  have  not  a  knowledge  of  it  (ex- 
cept from  a  sectarian  standpoint,  which 
is  not  a  knowledge,)  to  come  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  declare  unto 
them  that  Joseph  Smith  was  nor  a  Pro- 
phet of  God,  as  it  would  be  for 
a  teacher  to  go  among  our  school 
children  who  have  passed  through  a 


number  of  grades  and  declare  unto 
them  that  two  plus  two  does  not  make 
four.  It  would  be  just  as  ridiculous  for 
them  to  do  that  as  to  declare  that  the 
sun  does  not  appear  first  in  the  morning 
in  the  east  and  that  it  does  not  disap- 
pear from  view  in  the  evening  in  the 
west.  It  would  be  just  as  ridiculous, 
and  is,  for  men  and  women  to  declare 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  who  have  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth,  that  they  are 
mistaken  as  it  would  be  to  tell  them 
that  water  will  not  seek  its  own  level, 
or  that  it  will  of  itself  rise  higher 
than  its  source. 

The  Spirit  of  God  has  borne  witness 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  these 
things  are  true,  and  we  know  they  are 
true;  therefore,  it  is  foolishness  for  men 
to  come  into  our  midst  and  declare  unto 
us  that  these  things  are  false;  we  know 
better.  It  is  God's  truth  revealed  from 
heaven,  confirmed  in  our  souls  by  the 
Holy  Ghost,  which  we  have  received  by 
the  laying  on  of  hands  by  those  who 
have  been  ordained  of  God  and  upon 
whom  has  been  conferred  the  holy 
Priesthood.  Consequently,  that  is  the 
reason  there  are  so  very  few  ever  con- 
verted from  the  Church  of  Christ  into 
the  churches  of  those  who  pretend  to 
be  of  Christ.  One  of  our  friends  here,  a 
minister  of  the  Gospel,  complained  bit- 
terly a  short  time  since,  because,  said 
he,  "After  a  man  has  been  a  Mormon, 
no  matter  what  he  does,  if  he  can  be 
converted  and  is  won  away  from  the 
Church,  he  is  of  no  use  to  us  anyway; 
he  is  of  no  use  to  anybody.  We  can 
do  nothing  with  him,  as  those  ideas 
hang  to  him  while  he  lives  and  are  al- 
ways cropping  out  to  disturb  the  doc- 
trines which  we  have  to  teach  him." 
If  they  only  knew  it,  if  they  who  fight 
the  Gospel  of  Christ  in  anyway  what- 
ever, from  the  pulpit  or  the  press,  only 
knew  that  all  of  their  efforts  in  con- 
tending against  the  trutn  and  endeav- 
oring to  bring  the  Latter-day  Saints 
into  a  false  light  would  be  reactionary 
and  would  be  overruled  by  an  all-wise 
Providence  for  the  good  of  His  Church, 
they  would  perhaps  not  work  so  hard 
as  they  do.  If  they  only  knew  that  in 
converting  an  individual  who  has  had 
a  knowledge  of  the  truth  and  has  fallen 


ELDER  HTRUM  M.  SMITH. 


35 


away,,  or  who  has  gotten  into  the  dark, 
and  doubts,  through  sin  and  trans- 
gression— for  men  can  fall  from  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth  only  through  disobe- 
dience of  some  kind — if  they  knew  th.*t 
in  winning  such  persons  from  us  they 
were  but  adding  strength  to  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
and  were  weakening  their  own  organi- 
zations in  gaining  such  individuals, 
they,  perhaps,  would  not  be  so  anxious 
to  get  them. 

It  is  obvious  that  if  you  take  from 
any  proposition,  from  any  mechanism, 
the  weak  parts,  those  parts  that  threat- 
en the  rest  of  the  machinery  or  the  rest 
of  the    organization,    you  strengthen 
that  organization;  and  if  you  take  that 
weak  portion  and  add  it  to  yourself, 
you  do  not  add  strength  to  yourself,  but 
weakness  instead.    Now,    take  those 
Latter-day  Saints  who  are  in  trans- 
gression  and  who  have   joined  other 
churches,  some  people  think   they  are 
converted  from  the  truth,  but  they  are 
not;  they  have  lost  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth  through  their  transgression,  and 
when      they      are      cut      off  from 
the     Church     of     Christ     and  join 
some       other       organization  they 
weaken     that     organization,     and  it 
makes  the  Church  of  Christ  stronger 
because  of  the  absence  of  those  persons 
in  transgression.    We  would  be  pleased 
to  have  them  repent;  but  some  people, 
you  know,  will  not  repent;  they  cannot 
repent.    On  the  other  hand,  take  the 
ministry  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of    Latter-day    Saints,    that  Church 
which  sends  forth  its  ministers  with 
divine  authority  to  preach  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  and  declare  repentance 
to  the  world,  whom  do  they  convert?  Is 
it  those  who  have  been  ostracized  and 
cast  away  from  all  religious  doors?  No. 
Is  it  those  who  are  in  transgression  in 
the  other  churches,  or    in    the  world 
among  men?   No.    Who  is  it?    Why,  it 
is  the  people  who  are  most  devout,  who 
are  most  conscientious  in  serving  God, 
so  far  as  their  knowledge  and  light 
goes.   They  want  to  serve  the  Lord,  and 
they  are  striving  to  serve  Him;  they  are 
prayerful;  they  are  meeting-goers;  in 
fact,  those  converted  to  the  Church  of 
Christ  are  the  very  best  parishoners 


that  are  to  be  found  in  the  churches 
of  the  world.  In  other  words,  they  are 
the  strongest  individuals  to  be  found  in 
the  various  organizations  of  Christen- 
dom, and  in  gaining  them  we  add 
strength  to  the  true  Churcn.  We  see 
the  evidence  of  this  fact  when  we  look 
around  at  the  hundreds  and  thousands 
of  good,  noble,  conscientious,  devout 
men  and  women  who  have  been  fathers 
and  mothers  of  such  men  as  Brother 
McMurrin  and  Brother  Allen  here,  and 
tens  of  thousands  of  others  who  are 
making  or  have  made  their  mark  in 
this  land,  who  are  endeavoring  to  build 
up  the  Church  of  Christ  on  the  earth, 
and  who  are  a  benefit  to  any  commu- 
nity, wherever  they  may  be.  It  is  fa- 
thers and  mothers  of  other  young  men 
who  shall  carry  on  the  work  of  God  in 
the  world  that  our  Elders  are  convert- 
ing in  Christendom.  In  adding  such 
people  to  the  Church  we  add  strength 
to  it,  and  we  make  the  sectarian 
churches  weaker  every  time  one  is  won 
from  them  and  is  brought  to  a  know- 
ledge of  the  truth. 

We  stand,  as  I  said,  for  truth,  for  hon- 
esty, for  honor,  for  integrity,  for  every- 
thing that  is  good,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  those  who  will  not  yield 
obedience  to  these  principles  and 
nvho  will  not  serve  God,  must, 
sooner  or  later,  be  cast  off 
from  the  true  Church  of  Christ. 
People  who  are  sinful  and  unrepent- 
ant, people  who  are  in  transgression, 
men  and  women  who  are  wicked  in 
their  hearts  and  who  will  not  repent, 
can  never  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
God;  and  no  man  or  woman  who  is 
full  of  iniquity  and  sin  can  stand  in  this 
Church  very  long;  no,  they  will  be 
weeded  out.  There  are  sins,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  which  may  be  commit- 
ted that  cannot  be  repented  of  in  this 
life,  nor  will  they  be  forgiven  in  this 
life  nor  the  life  to  come,  and  men  and 
women  who  commit  these  sins  cannot 
be  retained  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Show  me 
another  church  in  the  world  that  in- 
variably excommunicates  men  or  wo- 
men because  of  transgression  or  wick- 
edness: there  are  none.  Murderers, 
whoremongers,     keepers     of  saloons, 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


gambling  hells  and  brothels,  the  doers 
of  all  evil,  may  be  members  in  the  de- 
nominations of  the  world.  Apparently 
there  is  no  sin  a  person  can  commit 
that  would  cause  other  denominations 
to  excommunicate  one  of  their  members 
from  their  churches.  A  member 
can  repudiate  the  church,  and 
then  there  is  nothing  else  for  the 
church  to  do  than  to  cast  him  out.  The 
Catholic  church  would  not  even  do  that 
in  by  gone  years;  they  would  burn  them 
at  the  stake,  and  then  pray 
for  their  salvation.  As  a  gen- 
eral thing,  no  matter  how  wicked, 
or  what  the  occupation  of  a  man  may 
be,  he  can  occupy  the  very  best  pew  in 
the  church,  if  he  will  but  sustain  it 
with  his  means.  That  cannot  be  done 
in  the  true  Church  of  Christ.  We  must 
serve  God;  we  must  keep  His  com- 
mandments; we  must  eschew  the  very 
appearance  of  evil  and  do  that  which 
is  right  to  retain  our  standing  in  the 
Church,  which  has  been  founded  in 
this  earth  by  God,  the  Father,  and  by 
the  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  If  your  deeds 
are  such  as  were  mentioned  by  Brother 
Wells,  that  is,  if  they  are  not  known 
by  men,  let  me  assure  you  that  God 
knows  them,  and  while  you  may  con- 
tinue in  this  secret  sin  a  member  of 
the  Church,  a  professed  member  of  the 
Church,  the  day  will  come,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  if  those  sins  are  not 
.repented  of  most  sincerely,  God,  the 
Eternal  Father  will  separate  you  from 
those  who  are  faithful,  and  will  cast 
you  out  from  His  presence  and  from 
His  salvation,  because  of  your  sins. 
Therefore,  we  say,  repent,  ye  Latter- 
day  Saints;  repent  and  call  upon  the 
world  to  repent.  You  wno  are  warned, 
warn  your  neighbors;  you  who  have  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth,  teach  your  chil- 
dren; you  who  know  that  God  lives, 
bear  your  testimony  to  the  world,  that 
all  may  have  the  privilege  of  knowing 
that  God  lives  and  that  this  is  His 
Church,  and  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  God's  people. 

Now,  may  the  Lord  bless  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  M,ay  you  be 
benefitted  in  this  conference  and  go 
forth  and  serve  the  Lord  with  single- 
ness of  purpose,  and  with  an  eye  single 


to  the  glory  of  God  and  to  the  building 
up  of  His  kingdom,  that  the  earth  may 
be  prepared  for  Christ's  reign  as  King 
of  Kings  and  Lord  of  Lords,  when  we 
may  bask  in  His  approbation  and  smiles 
of  approval  because  of  our  faithfulness 
in  doing  His  will  and  carrying  out  the 
counsel  given  to  us  through  His  ser- 
vants. May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  this 
end,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  no 
desire  to  prolong  the  meeting.  We  have 
had  a  good  one,  and  very  much  excel- 
lent counsel  and  admonition,  and  I 
trust  that  each  one  of  us  will  make 
it  the  business  of  our  lives  to  carry 
them  out. 

I  wish  to  remind  the  brethren  and  sis- 
ters who  are  here  of  the  counsel  given 
by  President  Smith  this  morning,  that 
just  as  far  as  possible  you  will  attend 
the  conference  meetings  tomorrow  and 
the  next  day,  until  the  conference  ends. 

I  have  been  very  much  impressed 
with  the  remarks  of  all  the  brethren, 
and  especially  the  las*  remarks  of 
Brother  Hyrum  in  regard  to  the  teach- 
ing of  our  children,  and  I  desire  to 
say  just  a  word  or  two  on  this  subject. 
Recently  I  enjoyed  the  honor  and  priv- 
ilege of  accompanying  President  Smith 
and  his  party  to  Canada,  and  the  Big 
Horn.  In  the  Big  Horn  Stake  of  Zion 
I  had  occasion  to  stop  all  night  in  va- 
rious places,  and  I  believe  that,  at  ev- 
ery place  where  I  stayed,  before  they 
had  prayer  at  night,  the  family  was 
called  together  and  sat  down  and  sang 
a  hymn,  one  of  our  sacred  songs,  and 
they  were  attended  by  the  influence  of 
the  Holy  Spirit.  A  chapter  was  read 
from  the  Book  of  Mormon  or  the  Bi- 
ble, and,  if  time  permitted,  some  re- 
marks were  made  upon  it  for  the  bene- 
fit of  the  children.  The  father,  mother, 
and  children,  each  in  turn,  from  time  to 
time  offered  the  family  prayer.  Now, 
this  is  a  very  simple  thing.  I  enquir- 
ed of  the  President  of  the  Stake  if  that 
was  the  practice  of  every  family  in  the 
Stake,  and  he  said  he  believed  it  was; 
it  had  been  counseled.  I  wish  to  say 
that  this  is  a  very  good  practice.  It 
has  been  recommended  to  us  time  and 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


37 


time  again,  by  the  Presidency  and  oth- 
er brethren  of  the  Church.  It  simply 
means  this,  my  brethren  and  sisters: 
That  it  is  establishing-  the  Church  of 
God  in  our  homes;  it  is  establishing  the 
worship  of  God  around  the  family  altar, 
and  I  believe  if  we  try  it  we  will  find 
that  good  results  from  it.  I  desire  to 
carry  it  out  myself,  in  order  that  I 
may  consistently  recommend  the  same 
to  others.  I  believe  that  the  great 
cause,  possibly  in  about  nine  cases  out 
of  ten,  of  the  transgression  of  our  chil- 
dren, and  the  cause  of  skepticism  in 
some  instances,  is  not  that  they  natur- 
ally drift  away,  but  because  they  have 
been  neglected;  we  have  not  sat  down 
and  talked  to  them.  We  have  got  to 
establish  the  order  of  heaven  in  our 
families, in  the  spirit  of  prayer  and  sup- 
plication, and  must  teach  our  children 
the  principles  of  divine  truth. 

I  want  to  say  another  thing  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints:  If  you  have  any 
grievances  against  any  of  your  neigh- 
bors or  against  the  servants  of  God 
who  stand  in  authority  in  this  Church, 
do  not  talk  about  those  grievances  be- 
fore your  children.  I  give  that  out  as 
the  word  of  the  Lord.  If  you  do,  you 
will  poison  the  minds  of  your  children, 
and  the  day  will  come  when  you  will 
regret  it,  when  you  would  like  to  fill 
their  souls  with  interest  in  the  work 
of  God  and  with  the  spirit  of  this  Gos- 
pel, and  then  you  will  remember  you 
have  poisoned  them.  I  give  this  coun- 
sel because  I  feel  impressed  with  it. 

Now,  just  one  more  item  occurs  to 
my  mind.  I  suggest  to  the  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  especially  the  Presidents 
of  Stakes  and  Bishops  of  wards,  that 
when  they  attend  conference  in  Salt 
Lake  City  they  should  take  advantage 
of  every  opportunity  afforded  at  the 
meetings  for  informing  their  minds  in 
regard  to  the  work  of  God.  I  do  not 
mean  by  this  our  attendance  alone  at 
the  general  assemblages,  but  also  at 
the  other  meetings  we  are  invited  to 
attend.  (The  speaker  here  invited  the 
Saints,  especially  those  in  authority,  to 
attend  the  Religion  Class  meeting  to 
be  held  at  the  close  of  this  service.) 
God  has  established  these  auxiliary 
organizations  in  the  Church  for  the  ed- 


ucation and  training  of  our  children, 
and  no  man  is  justified  in  depreciating 
them,  in  casting  any  reflection  upon 
them,  nor  in  saying  they  are  not  nec- 
essary in  the  work  of  God.  Every  sound 
Latter-day  Saint  will  welcome  every 
institution  in  this  Church  as  a  help  in 
the  education  of  our  children  in  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
this  work,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  God.  This  testimony  comes 
to  us  by  the  Spirit  of  God;  and,  outside 
of  this,  they  of  the  world  are  proving 
he  was  a  Prophet  of  God.  Brother  Mc- 
Murrin,  in  speaking  of  the  Presbyterian 
Church  dogma  regarding  infant  dam- 
nation, which  they  have  taught  for  the 
last  250  years,  might  have  added  that 
the  Methodist  Church  is  adopting  the 
law  of  tithing.  The  Epworth  League 
also  has  made  a  covenant  to  give  one- 
tenth  of  its  income  to  the  service  of  the 
Lord.  The  sectarians  are  now  adopting 
what  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  taught 
over  seventy  years  ago.  They  are  not 
doing  it  to  sustain  the  Prophet,  but  it 
proves  he  was  a  Prophet,  for  he  said 
the  Gospel  would  revolutionize  the 
world.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang:  , 

"Now  we'll  sing  with  one  accord, 
For  a  Prophet  of  the  Lord,"  etc. 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  Elder 
Stephen  L.  Chipman. 


OPEN  AIR  MEETING. 

At  2  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  an  open- 
air  meeting  was  held  near  the  bureau 
of  information  building  on  the  Temple 
block.  The  meeting  was  called  to  or- 
der by  President  Jos.  E.  Taylor  and 
opened  with  the  hymn:  "High  on  the 
Mountain  Top."  Prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  D.  H.  Grow,  of  Huntsville. 

Singing,  "Praise  to  the  Man." 

President  Taylor  then  introduced  El- 
der Ben  E.  Rich, president  of  the  South- 
ern States  mission,  who  gave  an  inter- 
esting and  spirited  address,  touching 
upon  the  divine  mission  of  Jos.  Smith 
and  the  wonderful  spread  of  his  teach- 
ings throughout  the  world. 

Elder  J.  G.  Duffin,  president  of  the 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Southwestern  States  mission,  next 
spoke.  He  referred  to  the  ancestry  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  and  said  that  his 
every  act  proved  him  to  be  a  prophet 
of  the  living  God. 

President  Joseph  E.  Robinson,  of  the 
California  mission,  was  then  introduced. 
He  showed  from  the  Bible  that  proph- 
ets from  the  earliest  days  were  perse- 


cuted, and  believed  in  by  but  few,  hence 
the  treatment  received  by  Joseph  Smith 
and  the  rejection  of  his  teacnings  by  so 
many,  is  but  a  repetition  of  sacred 
history. 

The  meeting  was  attended  by  fully 
1,000  people,  and  closed  with  the  sing- 
ing of  "The  Doxology,"  and  benediction 
by  Elder  James  Sharp. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Monday,  Oct.  5,  10  a.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  Thee 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free 
"We  here  enjoy. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Jonathan  G.  Kimball. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins: 

High  on  the  mountain  top 
A  banner  is  unfurled; 

Ye  nations,  now  look  up, 
It  waves  to  all  the  world. 

ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

References  to  Christian  Science  and  hypnotism — 
Clergymen  seekiLg  to  rectify  defei-ts  in  their 
religions— The  revea'ed  Gospel  of  Christ  the 
only  pathway  to  salvation. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  hum- 
bly pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
which  is  the  spirit  of  truth  and  right- 
eousness, may  prompt  me  in  all  that  I 
shall  say  this  morning,  and  I  trust  you 
will  pray  unto  our  Father  for  me,  that 
He  will  enable  me  to  talk  in  such  a  way 
as  shall  be  pleasing  in  His  sight.  I  am 
a  firm  believer  in  inspiration.  I  believe 
the  statement  in  the  Scriptures  that 
the  word  of  God  "came  not  in  old  time 
by  the  will  of  man;  but  holy  men  of 
God  spake  as  they  were  moved  by  the 
Holy  Ghost." 

On  my  way  to  this  meeting  I  met  a 
neighbor  of  mine,  and  he  said,  "Broth- 
er Taylor,  have  you  noticed  any  blight 
in  your  pear  orchard?"  I  told  him  I 
had  not  noticed  it  particularly,  and 
asked  him  what  it  was.  "Why,"  said 
he,  "if  you  will  notice  carefully,  there 
will  be  a  few  limbs  toward  the  top  of 
the  tree  where  the  wood  begins  to  with- 


er a  little  bit,  and  the  leaves  then 
wither  and  dry  up."  I  asked  him  what 
the  effect  of  this  blight  was  upon  the 
tree,  for  he  seemed  to  be  well  posted  on 
the  subject.  He  replied  that  it  had  the 
effect,  if  the  evil  is  not  corrected  in  its 
incipiency,  to  kill  out  not  only  the  tree 
affected,  but  the  entire  orcliard.  What 
is  the  remedy?  said  I.  He  answered 
promptly,  "The  remedy  is  to  cut  off  the 
blighted  part  about  one  foot  below 
where  it  is  dead,  and  be  careful  to 
gather  all  the  leaves  and  branches,  take 
them  out  of  the  orchard,  and  burn  them 
up."  I  have  since  been  thinking  about 
the  trees  in  my  orchard,  and  I  remem- 
ber that  several  of  them  have  some 
dead  limbs,  and  are  evidently  blighted 
a  little.  It  would  be  well  for  us  all  to 
look  after  our  orchards  carefully. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have 
imagined  I  can  see  a  blight,  not  only 
upon  our  orchards,  but  in  some  of  the 
families  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
that  is  much  more  serious  than  having 
our  orchards  blighted.  Christ  said: 
"Fear  not  them  which  kill  the  body,  but 
are  not  able  to  kill  the  soul;  but 
rather  fear  him  which  is  able  to 
destroy  both  soul  and  ibody  in  hell." 
If  the  families  in  Salt  Lake  City  were 
an  orchard,  and  each  one  represented 
a  tree,  I  can  imagine  there  are  a  few 
dead  branches  that  may  be  likened  un- 
to the  blighted  trees  yferred  to  in  my 
conversation  this  morning.  The  Apos- 
tle John,  in  writing  to  the  Saints  in  his 
day,  used  this  expression: 

"Whosoever  transgresseth,  and  abid- 
eth  not  in  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  hath 
not  God.  He  that  abideth  in  the  doc- 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


39 


trine  of  Christ,  he  hath  both  the  Father 
and  the  Son. 

"If  there  come  any  unto  you,  and 
bring  not  this  doctrine,  receive  him 
not  into  your  house,  neither  bid.  him 
God-speed: 

"For  he  that  biddeth  him  God-speed 
is  partaker  of  his  evil  deeds." — II  John, 
9-11. 

This  is  one  of  the  best  guides  we 
have  received  from  inspired  men  of 
olden  times.  "Whosoever  transgresseth. 
and  abideth  not  in  the  doctrine  of 
Christ,  hath  not  God.  He  that  abideth 
in  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  he  hath  both 
the  Father  and  the  S_on."  We  are  also 
told: 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  Thee,  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  Thou  hast 
sent." — John,  17:3. 

"No  man  knoweth  the  Son,  but  the 
Father;  neither  knoweth  any  man  the 
Father,  save  the  Son,  and  he  to  whom- 
soever the  Son  •will  reveal  him." — Mat- 
thew, 11:27. 

"No  man  can  sav  that  Jesus  is  the 
Lord,  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost."— I  Cor- 
inthians, 12:3. 

We  learn,  then,  that  if  we  abide  in 
the  doctrines  of  Christ  we  have  both 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  being  in 
fellowship  with  them  and  with  the 
Holy  Ghost,  which  constitute  the  God- 
head, we  are  heirs  of  glory,  immortal- 
ity and  eternal  life. 

Various  doctrines  are  being  promul- 
gated among  the  Latter-day  Saints  at 
the  present  time  that.  I  would  like  to 
refer  to  briefly.  One  of  these  is  Chris- 
tian Science,  which  has  spread  to  some 
extent  in  this  city,  and  to  my  mind  it 
is  like  the  blight  upon  the  orchard.  If 
it  is  not  "cut  off  about  one  foot  be- 
low the  dead  branches,"  it  may  kill  the 
tree  and  affect  the  whole  orchard.  Let 
us  reason  together  a  few  moments  up- 
on this.  In  olden  times,  certain  gifts 
and  blessings  were  promised  the 
Saints.  One  was  the  gift  of  prophecy, 
another  the  gift  of  healing,  another  the 
gift  of  tongues,  another  the  interpre- 
tation of  tongues,  another  the  gift  ol 
wisdom,  another  the  gift  of  knowledge, 
etc.  Now,  I  say  to  you  there  is  not  one 
of  these  gifts  that  is  a  principle  of  sal- 
vation in  and  of  itself.  Though  they 
were  promised  by  the  Savior,  and  exer- 
cised by  His  Apostles,  and  always  exist 
in  the  true  Church  of  Christ,  there  is 


not  one  of  them  that,  of  itself,  will  save 
and  exalt  the  children  of  men  in  the 
kingdom  of  God;  for  they  are  not  prin- 
ciples of  salvation  when  segregated 
from  the  doctrines  of  Christ. 

Take  Christian  Science,  as  it  is  called, 
and  it  rests  largely  upon  what  they 
term  "being  happy,"  and  the  healing 
of  their  bodies  when  afflicted.  I  testi- 
fy to  you,  as  a  servant  of  the  Lord, 
that  you  may  lay  hands  on  the  dead 
and  raise  them  to  life  again,  as  Christ 
did  the  widow's  son,  or  you  may  heal 
the  afflicted  by  the  r>nwer  of  God,  and 
the  fact  that  they  are  healed  or  brought 
to  life  again  »will  not  save  them  in  the- 
kingdom  of  God;  for  they  may  after- 
wards go  into  transgression,  and  wan- 
der from  the  straight  and  narrow  path 
which  leadeth  to  the  lives  eternal. 
Therefore,  I  say  it  is  not  a  principle 
of  salvation  apart  from  the  Gospel.  An- 
other thing:  Is  the  fact  that  we  may 
be  temporarily  happy  going  to  save  us 
in  the  kingdom  of  God?  Have  we  not 
got  to  abide  in  the  doctrines  of  Christ, 
or  we  have  not  the  Father  and  the 
Son?  What  are  the  doctrines  of  Christ? 
Look  at  His  example;  He  was  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world.  He  said,  "I  am 
the  life  and  the  light  of  the  world," 
and  he  invited  all  to  follow  Him.  What 
did  He  do?  He  went  unto  John  and 
requested  baptism  of  him.  At  first,  John 
forbade  Him,  saying,  "I  have  need  to 
be  baptized  of  Thee,  and  comest  Thou 
to  me?"  But  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world  was  not  satisfied  with  that  ex- 
pression of  John's  humility,  for  He 
knew  that  if  He  did  not  yield  obedience 
to  that  principle  of  righteousness — one 
of  His  own  doctrines — He  could  not 
fulfill  the  law  of  all  righteousness  and 
be  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  to  which 
He  was  ordained  before  He  came  into 
this  world.  Therefore,  He  said  unto 
John:  "Suffer  it  to  be  so  now:  for  thus 
it  becometh  us  to  fulfill  all  righteous- 
ness." Then  John  suffered  Him,  and  He 
went  down  into  the  water  and  was  bap- 
tized. He  came  up  out  of  the  water, 
and  the  Holy  Ghost  descended  upon 
Him  in  the  form  of  a  dove;  "and  lo  a 
voice  from  heaven,  saying.  "This  is  My 
beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased."  I  would  say  to  all  the  Chris- 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


tian  Scientists  in  the  world,  to  all  men 
— ihe  kings  and  queens  upon  their 
thrones,  and  those  who  are  in  the  hum- 
bler walks  of  life— to  all  nations,  kin- 
dreds, tongues  and  people:  Except  you 
are  born  of  the  water  and  of  the  Spirit, 
you  cannot  enter  the  kingdom  of  heav- 
en. Except  you  abide  in  this  doctrine 
which  Christ  taught  and  practised,  you 
can  never  enter  into  His  kingdom, 
worlds  without  end.  You  must  abide  in 
the  doctrines  of  Christ.  You  may  say, 
"I  am  happy  in  this  religion."  Bless 
your  soul,  is  not  the  Mon- 
golian happy  when  he  is  ly- 
ing upon  his  couch  smoking  the 
deadly  fumes  of  opium?  In  the  hal- 
lucination of  his  mind,  does  he  not 
imagine  that  he  is  having  pleasure  and 
joy?  I  tell  you  there  is  no  true  happi- 
ness except  that  which  comes  from  a 
faithful  performance  of  duty,  under  the 
gift  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  The 
Lord  hath  said: 

"Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard, 
neither  have  entered  into  the  h^art  of 
man.  the  things  'which  Ond  hnth  pre- 
pared for  them  that  love  Him."— T  Cor- 
inthians, 2:9. 

But  they  say.  "we  are  so  happy."  and 
one  woman  will  go  to  another,  and  to- 
gether they  will  go  from  house  to  house 
teaching  these  doctrines.  What  is  the 
result?  The  result  is.  the  blight  be- 
gins to  show  upon  another  tree.  Men 
and  women  who  have  been  faithful  in 
the  Church  of  Christ  begin  to  neglect 
their  duty,  forget  their  prayers,  speak 
against  the  Holy  Priesthood,  and 
wander  into  by  and  forbidden  paths 
which  leadeth  to  destruction.  Show  me 
a  man  or  woman  who  has  adopted 
this  single  principle  of  faith, 
and  has  neglected  the  weightier 
things  of  the  kindgom;  show 
me  any  member  of  the  Church 
who  has  joined  any  of  these 
Christian  Science  associations,  and  I 
will  show  you  a  man  or  woman  who 
has  been  finding  fault  with  the  author- 
ities of  the  Church,  neglecting  to  pay 
tithing,  and  not  praying  unto  God  for 
light  and  wisdom.  I  ask  how  the  Lord 
could  ever  have  built  up  His  Church  in 
ancient  days  by  somebody  simply  say- 
ing they  felt  happy?  People  with  such 
ideas  may  be  enjoying  the  happy  hallu- 


cinations of  dreamland,  but  they  are 
sleeping  the    sleep     of     death.  The 
Prophet  Moroni  spoke  of  the  good  gifts 
that  God  had  placed  in  the  Church  of 
Christ,  and  then  said,  "Touch  not  the 
evil  gift,  nor  the  unclean  thing."  What 
is  the  evil  gift  and  the  unclean  thing? 
It  is  any  gift,  or  inspiration  or  inclina- 
tion that  will     lead     men    from  the 
straight  and  narrow     path,  and  from 
serving  the  trule  and  living  God — the 
God  of  Abraham,     Isaac  and  Jacob. 
Could  Solomon  have  satisfied  the  Lord, 
when  He  commanded  him  to  build  a 
temple,  by  saying,  "Lord,  I  am  happy 
all  day  long;  I  am  not  sick,  I  am  not  in 
distress,  and  I  do  not  need  to  build  a 
temple?     Certainly  not.     The  Lord 
would  undoubtedly  have  said  to  him 
that  He  wanted  him  to  build  a  temple 
unto  God,  no  matter  whether  he  was 
happy  or  sad,  and  He  would  have  re- 
proved him  sharply.     He  does  not  ex- 
pect us  merely  to  satisfy  our  own  de- 
sires.     "Man  shall  not  live  by  bread 
alone,   but  by  levery  word   that  pro- 
ceedeth  out  of  the     mouth  of  God." 
Suppose  Noah,  when     he  was  called 
upon  to  build  an  ark  to  save  a  few 
of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  that 
the  human  race  might  be  perpetuated, 
had  said,  "I  am  happy,  I  am  never  af- 
flicted, and  I  enjoy  myself;"  would  that 
have  saved  anybody  from  the  flood? 
The  Lord  our  God  wants  the  children  of 
men  to  do  something.  He  wanted  Noah 
to  build  on  ark,  and  Noah  built  it.  You 
cannot   build    arks    and  temples,  you 
cannot  gather  Israel  and  establish  the 
kingdom  of  God,  on  one  principle  of  the 
Gospel  alone.     You  cannot    make  a 
watch  or  clock  go  with  only  one  of  its 
wheels.     You  cannot  make  the  human 
body  active  by  separating  the  head  or 
th\e  feet  from  it.     The  body  as  created 
is  perfect,  in  beautiful  symmetry,  and 
it  cannot  be  complete  if  we  take  one 
part  of  it  and  reject  the  rest;  it  takes 
the  whole  to  make  the  perfect  man.  It 
is  so  with  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Another  thing  that  we  have  in  our 
midst  is  what  is  called  hypnotism. 
There  is  a  sprinkling  of  Latter-day 
Saints  tainted  a  little  with  this.  You 
can  see  the  blight  and  the  wither  of 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


41 


hypnotism  "on  the  tops  of  the  trees." 
Men  are  being-  carried  away  with  it,  and 
are  beginning  to  exercise  unrighteous 
dominion  ovter  the  children  of  men,  be- 
cause they  have  stronger  wills  than 
others.  They  try  to  charm  others.and 
make  them  do  as  they  please.  Don't 
you  know  that,  in  th>e  days  of  Moses 
and  the  prophets,  charmers  were  put 
to  death?  The  Lord  so  despised  the 
idea  of  one  man  exercising  unrighteous 
dominion  and  influence  over  another 
that  he  gave  a  law,  commanding  that 
charmers  should  be  put  to  death.  And 
He  has  .  opened  His  mouth  in  this  day 
and  said: 

"The  rights  of  the  Priesthood  are  in- 
separably connected  with  the  powers  of 
heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven 
cannot  be  controlled  nor  handled  only 
upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

"That  they  may  be  conferred  upon 
us,  it  is  true;  but  when  we  undertake 
to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our 
pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise 
control,  or  dominion,  or  compulsion, 
upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men, 
in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  be- 
hold, the  heavens  withdraw  themselves; 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and 
when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the 
Priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that 
man." 

This  hypnotic  power  is  not  of  God. 
It  is  an  evil  gift.  A  short  time  ago 
I  was  in  the  Malad  stake  of  Zion,  where 
a  man  had  been  studying  this  art 
of  hypnotism,  and  he  proposed  to  the 
Bishop  of  the  ward  that  he  take  les- 
sons so  that  he  could  hypnotize  the 
people  to  make  them  do  as  he  pleased. 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  that  is  the 
doctrine  the  devil  proposed  in  heaven, 
when  the  Lord  our  God  was  preparing 
to  people  this  earth.  He  proposed  to 
take  away  the  agency  of  men,  and  to 
exercise  unrighteous  dominion  over 
them.  But  the  Lord  rejected  his  plan, 
and  chose  His  Son  Jesus  Christ  to 
come  into  the  world  with  the  plan  of 
life  and  salvation  that  we  now  tteach. 
The  doctrines  of  Christ  are  plain  and 
simple,  and  they  do  not  sanction  the 
use  of  unrighteous  dominion  upon  the 
souls  of  the  children  of  men.  There- 
fore, 1  say  unto  you,  hypnotism  is  not 
of  God. 

Women  go  from  house  to  house,  and 


say  they  were  healed,  or  their  children 
were  healed,  by  Christian  Science;  or 
they  had  been  hypnotized  and  got  such 
great  relief  from  it,  and  "it  would  as- 
tonish you  how  happy  I've  been  ever 
since."  I  say  to  you,  my  friends,  we 
should  not  seek  in  this  life  to  become 
happy  by  exercising  evil  gifts  among 
the  children  of  men.  You  can  .read  of 
the  magicians  in,  ancient  times  casting 
down  their  rods,  and,  through  the  ex- 
ercise of  the  evil  gift,  their  rods  be- 
came serpents,  as  did  the  rods  of  Mo?es 
and  Aaron.  But,  when  it  came  to  slay- 
ing the  firstborn,  the  Lord  said  in  ef- 
fect, Thus  far  shalt  thou  go,  and  no 
further.  The  first  born  of  the  children 
of  Israel  were  saved,  while  the  first- 
born of  the  children  of  Pharaoh  and 
the  other  Egyptians  were  destroyed.  I 
speak  of  this  to  show  you  that  the  wis- 
dom of  the  Lord  is  greater  than  the 
cunning  of  the  devil,  and  the  power  of 
the  Priesthood  is  pre-eminent  over  ev- 
ery other  power  on  the  earth. 

There  are  Latter-day  Saints  who  ap- 
parently place  their  whole  faith  upon 
one  of  the  gifts  of  the  Gospel.  Some 
may  place  their  faith  upon  the  gift  of 
healing,  others  upon  the  gift  of  proph- 
ecy, others  upon  the  gift  of  tongues  or 
the  interpretation  of  tongues.  I  say 
again  that  these  gifts,  in  and  of  them- 
selves, are  not  principles  of  salvation. 
They  are  given  for  the  temporary  com- 
fort of  the  Saints.  But  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood is  without  beginning  of  days  or 
end  of  years;  it  will  remain  with  the 
Saints  throughout  the  eternal  ages  to 
come. 

The  Apostle  Paul  says: 

"Whether  there  be  prophecies,  they 
shall  fail;  whether  there  be  tongues, 
they  shall  cease;  whether  there  be 
knowledge,  it  shall  vanish  away. 

"For  we  know  in  part,  and  we  proph- 
esy in  part. 

"But  when  that  which  is  perfect  is 
come,  then  that  which  is  in  part  shall 
be  done  away."— I  Corinthians,  13: 
810. 

That  is  perfectly  natural;  for  when 
that  which  is  perfect  is  come,  we  shall 
see  as  we  are  seen,  and  know  as  we 
are  known.  There  will  be  no  need  for 
men  to  prophesy  what  shall  take  place, 
for  we  shall  all  see  and  understand  it. 
In  that  day  it  will  not  be  necessary  for 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


one  to  say  to  another,  Know  ye  the 
Lord;  for  all  shall  know  Him.  Perfect 
knowledge  'will  be  enjoyed  by  all.  We 
shall  see  eye  to  eye,  and  be  of  one 
heart  and  mind  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 
It  will  not  be  necessary  for  any  to 
speak  in  an  unknown  tongue:  for  t">e 
original  Adamic  language  will  be  re- 
stored, and  all  shall  speak  in  the  one 
tongue.  Hence  how  consistent  it  is  to 
say,  "When  that  which  is  perfect  is 
come,  then  that  which  is  in  part  shall 
be  done  away."  These  gifts  are  now 
given  to  us  as  a  lamp  to  lighten  our 
pathway,  to  encourage  us  when  our 
spirits  are  drooping,  to  heal  our  bodies 
when  we  are  afflicted,  and  to  give  us 
knowledge  of  things  to  come,  that  we 
may  be  buoyed  up  and  go  on  to  per- 
fection. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  doctrine 
of  Christian  Science  is  not  of  God.  Hyp- 
notism is  displeasing  in  the  sight  of  the 
Lord,  and  those  who  practise  it  may  be 
likened  unto  the  charmers,  soothsayers, 
sorcerers,  and  idolaters  of  ancient 
times.  They  were  so  repugnant  in  the 
sight  of  the  Lord  that  He  gave  special 
laws  to  Israel  in  relation  to  them.  Now, 
shall  we,  who  have  come  out  of  dark* 
ness  into  light,  turn  away  as  the  sow  to 
wallow  in  the  mire,  or  like  the  dog  to 
his  vomit?  Shall  we  go  back  to  the 
beggarly  elements  of  the  world?  I  say 
unto  you,  as  said  the  old  prophet,  Let 
those  who  bear  the  vessels  of  the  Lord 
be  clean.  Jesus  said,  "No  man.  hav- 
ing put  his  hand  to  the  plow,  and  look- 
ing back,  is  fit  for  the  kingdom  of 
God." 

I  testify  unto  you,  my  friends,  that 
the  Lord  our  God  has  raised  up  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet  in  this  our  day.  He 
has  delivered  unto  the  world  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  which  is  a  history  of  the 
ancient  inhabitants  of  this  continent.  It 
is  the  word  of  God  to  the  people  of  the 
earth.  It  is  the  writings  of  prophets 
who  have  lived  upon  this  land,  just  as 
the  Bible  is  the  writings  of  prophets  in 
the  land  of  Palestine,  and  a  his- 
tory of  the  dealings  of  God  with 
ancient  Israel.  The  heavens  have 
been  opened  in  our  day.  The  Father 
and  the  Son  appeared  unto  Joseph 
Smith,  and  the  Gospel  has  been  restor- 
ed.   This  Gospel  is  being  preached  ac- 


cording to  the  commandment  of  the 
Savior.  "He  that  believeth  and  is  bap- 
tized shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  be- 
lieveth not  shall  be  damned."  How 
can  we  keep  the  commands  of  God? 
By  listening  to  His  voice  and  doing 
His  will.  There  are  those  m  the  world 
who  are  blighted  with  the  idea  that  if 
they  only  believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  they  can  be  saved.  This  is  a  con- 
venient and  very  popular  doctrine.  But 
Jesus  said: 

"Many  will  say  to  me  in  that  day„ 
Lord,  Lord,  have  we  not  prophesied  in 
thy  name?  and  in  thy  name  have  cast 
out  devils?  and  in  thy  name  done 
many  wonderful  works? 

"And  then  will  I  profess  unto  them, 
I  never  knew  you:  depart  from  me, 
ye  that  work  iniquity." — Matthew  7: 
22  23 

"Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me, 
Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth 
the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven."— Matthew  7:  21. 

This  is  the  true  doctrine  of  Christ. 
The  world  today  are  adopting  some  of 
the  principles  revealed  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  A  short  time  ago  a 
great  conclave  of  ministers  met  at 
Los  Angeles  for  the  purpose  of  remod- 
eling their  creed.  Did  yuu  ever  hear 
of  the  prophets  of  God  in  any  age 
meeting  to  remodel  the  revelations  of 
God,  the  Eternal  Father,  or  His  Son 
Jesus  Christ?  He  is  the  same  yester- 
day, today  and  forever.  The  word 
of  God  never  changes.  The  Lord  our 
God  revealed  unto  His  Prophet  in  this 
day  the  principle  of  infant  salvation. 
What  about  infants?  Why,  it  has  been 
preached  by  sectarians  for  generations, 
that  little  infants  who  died  without 
being  baptized  would  be  damned.  Is 
there  any  man  under  the  sound  of  my 
voice  who  can  deny  that  this  doctrine 
has  been  taught?  You  cannot  deny  it, 
because  it  is  in  the  sectarian  writings.' 
Yet  Joseph  Smith  proclaimed  the  doc- 
trine that  little  children  come  into  the 
world  pure  and  innocent,  and  they  are 
not  responsible  for  sin  until  they  arrive 
at  the  years  of  accountaoility.  I  am 
very  glad  to  see  these  ministers  be- 
ginning to  receive  a  little  light.  I  be- 
lieve there  are  no  men  so  reluctant  to 
get  light  into  their  heads  as  minis- 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


43 


ters.  That  is  why  they  have  received 
so  little  during  the  last  sixty  years. 
But,  they  are  gradually  beginning  to 
observe  the  light;  and  I  am  glad  they 
have,  in  a  measure,  adopted  in  their 
creed  the  revelation  of  God  to  Joseph 
Smith  concerning  infants.  Another 
thing:  Joseph  Smith,  under  the  com- 
mand of  God,  taught  the  principle  of 
tithing,  and  now  some  of  our  Chris- 
tian friends  are  beginning  to  recom- 
mend the  payment  of  titning  in  their 
churches.  I  tell  you  the  time  will  come 
when  every  principle  that  was  revealed 
to  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  in  this 
last  dispensation,  will  be  adopted,  one 
by  one,  until  every  knee  shall  bow  and 
tevery  tongue  confess  ;that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God.  I  have  just 
had  handed  to  me  written  evidence  of 
what  I  have  said  regarding  tithing.  It 
is  a  card  published  by  one  of  the 
churches,  and  reads  as  follows: 

GOD'S   FINANCIAL  PLAN. 

Believing  that  all  Christians  should 
systematically  and  sacredly  set  aside  a 
certain  porportion  of  their  income  for 
the  cause  of  Christ;  and  furthermore, 
that  it  is  the  plain  teaching  of  God's 
"Word,  and  His  Financial  Plan,  that 
one-tenth  of  our  income  belongs  to 
Him; 

Therefore,  we  hereby  covenant  with 
God  and  one  another,  that  we  will  set 
aside  one-tenth  of  our  income,  hold  it 
as  a  sacred  trust  and  give  it  for  the 
cause  of  Christ; 

That  we,  who  make  this  covenant,  by 
attaching  our  names  hereto  shall  be 
known  as  members  of  the  Tithing  Band 
of  the  Epworth  League,  First  Methodist 
Episcopal  Church  of  Los  Angeles. 
Date    Name   

If  I  had  been  printing  it,  I  would 
have  had  it  like  this: 

"We  hereby  pledge  ourselves,  and 
sign  our  names,  as  members  of  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet  Tithing  League." 
Another  thing:  If  I  was  going  to  do 
away  with  that  wicked  and  corrupt 
doctrine  of  infant  damnation,  I  would 
not  get  together  a  lot  of  ministers  and 
learned  men  to  make  a  iuss  about  it, 
as  if  they  had  made  some  wonderful 
discovery;  but  I  would  get  up  like  a 
straightforward,  honest  man,  and  say, 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  taught 
this  years  ago,  I  know  it  is 
true;  therefore,  let  us  adopt  it.  I  say 
once  more,   my  brethren  and  sisters, 


every  principle  which  has  been  revealed 
to  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  will  have 
to  be  acknowledged  by  every  man,  wo- 
man and  child  who  desire  to  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  our  God,  or  they  will 
never  get  there.  This  is  my  testimony 
unto  you;  for  the  Lord  has  spoken. 
This  is  not  the  work  of  man.  It  is 
not  the  work  of  these  men  who  sit 
upon  this  stand.  It  is  the  work  of  the 
great  Jehovah.  And  that  day  is  at  hand 
which  was  spoken  of  by  the  ancient 
prophets,  and  emphasized  by  our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  who  said: 

"Think  not  that  I  am  come  to  destroy 
the  law,  or  the  prophets;  I  am  not 
come  to  destroy,  but  to  fulfill. 

"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  till  heaven 
and  earth  pass,  one  jot  or  one  tittle 
shall  in  no  wise  pass  from  the  law,  till 
all  be  fulfilled."— Matthew  5:  17,  18. 

There  are  some  portions  of  the  law, 
and  some  prophecies,  that  have  not 
yet  been  fulfilled,  while  others  are  be- 
ing fulfilled;  and  the  day  is  at  hand 
when  these  words  of  the  Savior  will  be 
fully  verified.  Jeremiah  the  Prophet, 
after  speaking  of  the  scattering  of 
Israel,  and  the  curse  of  David  for  the 
sin  which  he  committed  in  the  matter 
of  the  wife  of  Uriah  the  Hittite,  writes 
these  words  of  the  Lord: 

"And  I  will  gather  the  remnant  of  my 
flock  out  of  all  countries  whither  I 
have  driven  them,  and  will  bring  them 
again  to  their  folds;  and  they  shall  be 
fruitful  and  increase. 

"And  I  will  set  up  shepherds  over 
them  which  shall  feed  them;  and  they 
shall  fear  no  more,  nor  be  dismayed, 
neither  shall  they  be  lacking,  saith  the 
Lord. 

"Behold,  the  days  come,  saith  the 
Lord,  that  I  will  raise  unto  David,  a 
righteous  branch,  and  a  king  shall  reign 
and  prosper,  and  shall  execute  judg- 
ment and  justice  in  the  earth. 

"In  his  days  Judah  shall  be  saved, 
and  Israel  shall  dwell  safely:  and  this 
is  his  name  whereby  he  shall  be  called, 
the  Lord  our  Righteousness. 

"Therefore,  behold,  the  days  come, 
saith  the  Lord,  that  they  shall  no  more 
say,  The  Lord  liveth,  which  brought  up 
the  children  of  Israel  out  of  the  land  of 
Egypt; 

"But,  The  Lord  liveth,  which  brought 
up  and  which  led  the  seed  of  the  house 
of  Israel  out  of  the  north  country,  and 
from  all  countries  whither  I  had  driv- 
en them;  and  they  shall  dwell  in  their 
own  lands." — Jeremiah  23:  3-8. 

"Behold,  I  will  send  for  many  fishers, 
saith  the  Lord,  and  they  shall  fish 
them;  and  after  will  I  send  for  many 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hunters,  and  they  shall  hunt  them  from 
every  mountain,  and  from  every  hill, 
and  out  of  the  holes  of  the  rocks." — 
Jeremiah  16:  16. 

"I  will  take  you  one  of  a  city,  and 
two  of  a  family,  and  I  will  bring  you  to 
Zion: 

"And  I  will  give  you  pastors  accord- 
ing to  mine  heart,  which  shall  feed 
you  with  knowledge  and  understand- 
ing."— Jeremiah  3:  14,  15. 

My  friends,  this  is  the  destiny  God 
has  in  store  for  His  people. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the 
last  days,  that  the  mountain  of  the 
Lord's  house  shall  be  established  in  the 
top  of  the  mountains,  and  shall  be 
exalted  above  the  hills;  and  all  na- 
tions shall  flow  unto  it. 

"And  many  people  shall  go  and  say, 
Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the 
mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of 
the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach  us 
of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his 
paths;  for  out  of  Zion  shall  go  forth 
the  law,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from 
Jerusalem." — Isaiah  2:  2,  3. 

This  is  the  word  of  God,  and  the 
gathering  is  now  taking  place.  Jesus 
would  have  gathered  the  people  in  His 
day,  but  they  would  not  receive  Him: 
He  said: 

"O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that 
killest  the  prophets,  and  stonest  them 
which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often 
would  I  have  gathered  thy  children  to- 
gether, even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her 
chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye  would 
not!"— Matthew  23:  37. 

The  day,   my  friends,  has  arrived 
when  Israel  is  being  gathered  from  the 
four  corners  of  the  earth,  and  when 
Zion   is   arising   and    will    shine,  and 
will  become  the  light  and  brightness  of 
the   whole   earth.     This   is   the  work 
spoken  of  by  the  Prophet  Daniel.  He 
saw  that  "a  stone  was  cut  out  of  the 
mountain  without  hands,"  which  "be- 
came a  great  mountain,  and  filled  the 
whole  earth."   The  proclamation  of  this 
work  will  go  from  nation  to  nation, 
until  every  soul  that  lives  upon  the 
earth  will  have  the  privilege  of  hear- 
ing the  sound  thereof,  and  every  honest 
man  and  woman  will  have  the  privilege 
of  embracing  it  and  becoming  heirs 
of   God    and   joint   heirs    with  Jesus 
Christ.  The  blood  of  our  Lord  and  Sa- 
vior    was     split,     that     He  might 
redeem     mankind,     and     it     is  only 
through  His  name  we  can  be  saved. 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  work  is 
growing.    We  have  still  a  great  work 
to  perform,  and  we  should  not  waste 
our  time  on  hypnotism,   or  Christian 
Science,  or  evolution,  and  such  things. 
We  have  believers  in  evolution  in  our 
midst,  and  there  is  a  little  "blight  upon 
the  top  of  the  trees"  in  this  regard.  As 
a  servant  of  God  I  tell  you  mankind 
can  not  be  redeemed,  worlds  without 
end;  can  not  evolve,  0r  crystalize,  or 
get  into  the  condition  entitling  them 
to  become  heirs  of  God  and  joint  heirs 
with  Jesus  Christ,  and  to  partake  of 
the  fulness  of  His  glory;  can  not  go 
on  to  perfection,  and  sit  down  in  the 
councils   of   heaven     with  Abraham, 
Isaac  and  Jacob,  and  those  bright  in- 
telligences who  created  this  world  and 
others,    only    through    the    Gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.    All  the  evolu- 
tion in  the  world  will  not  save  a  single 
soul;  neither  will  all  the  Christian  Sci- 
ence, neither  will  spiritualism,  nor  hyp- 
notism, nor  any  other  ism  that  is  not 
of  God.     The  Gospel  of  Christ  is  so 
plain  that  a  wayfaring  man,  though  a 
fool,   need   not   err   therein.     Do  you 
think  the  Lord  was  mistaken  when  He 
said  light  had  come  into  the  world,  and 
that  the  children  of  sin  might  be  known 
by  their  rejection  of  the  light?  Some 
of  them  acknowledge  the  principle  of 
infant  salvation,  and  some  will  receive 
the  principle  of  tithing;   but  what  is 
the  effect  of  it?    Just  like  the  Savior 
said— they  put  a  new  patch  on  an  old 
garment,   and   it   only   makes   it  the 
more  unsightly.    W\en  they  begin  to 
accept  the  principle  of  tithing,  the  ques- 
tion  arises,    Where   is   your  Prophet, 
the  mouthpiece  of  the  Lord,  to  guide 
and  direct  the  people  in  the  use  of 
tithing?    Some  of  them,  I  suppose,  will 
have  to  go  to  the  Pope  or  someone  else 
to   get   instructions.     Let   me   say  to 
you,  these  are  matters  which  should  be 
considered  seriously.    If  you  allow  any 
man  or  woman  to  coi.ie  into  your  house 
and  teach  false  docrrme,  you  are  re- 
sponsible.    I  do  not  want  anyone  to 
come  into  my  house  and  teach  doc- 
trines that  are  not  of  God.  Just  as  soon 
as  I  hear  of  them  coming  I  lift  up  my 
voice  against  them.    The  idea  of  peo- 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


45 


pie  assuming  to  teach  the  Latter-day 
Saints  principles  of  salvation  is  to  me 
the  very  height  of  absurdity.  "We  are 
commanded  to  live  by  every  word  that 
proceedeth  from  the  mouth  of  God. 
Then  if  I  want  the  word  of  God  con- 
cerning His  kingdom,  to  whom  shall  I 
go?  To  His  mouthpiece.  I  will  go  to 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  say, 
What  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  con- 
cerning this  matter?  That  is  my  duty, 
for  he  is  the  mouthpiece  of  the  Lord, 
and  it  is  his  right  to  direct  me,  to 
bless  me  when  I  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God,  and  to  admonish  and 
correct  me  when  I  do  not. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  walk 
in  the  ligh:  o!  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
and  not  be  cherishing  a  dead  faith.  Let 
us  not  be  haggling  and  talking  about 
other  religions,  but  be  active  members 
in  the  Church  of  Christ,  doing  our  duty 
in  all  things,  and  setting  examples  be- 
fore the  children  of  men  that  shall  be 
worthy  of  their  imitation.  If  we  are 
called  to  go  and  build  up  a  Stake  of 
Zion,  let  us  do  it.  If  we  are  called  to 
build  a  temple,  let  us  be  on  hand  to 
fulfill  the  requirement.  If  we  are 
called  upon  to  build  a  sugar  factory,  let 
us  willingly  respond.  If  we  are  called 
upon  to  build  a  city,  town  or  village, 
let  us  do  that.  That  is  the  Spirit  of 
the  Gospel,  as  I  understand  it.  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet  said:  Show  me  a 
man  or  woman  who  has  the  spirit  of 
the  Gospel  within  them,  and  I  will 
show  you  a  man  or  woman  whose 
greatest  desire  is  to  build  up  the  king- 
dom of  God  upon  the  earth.  Jesus  ad- 
monished His  disciples  not  to  seek 
after  houses  and  lands,  gold  and  sil- 
ver, but  to  "seek  first  the  kingdom  of 
God,  and  His  righteousness,  and  all 
these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 
Do  we  want  anything  more  than  that? 

There  are  some  people  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints  who  have  a  little- 
blight  upon  them  in  another  way.  When 
Lehi,  in  his  vision,  saw  those  who  par- 
took of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of  life,  he 
beheld  that  the  great  multitude  point- 
ed the  finger  of  scorn  at  them,  inso- 
much that  some  turned  their  faces 
away  and  felt  ashamed.  I  say,  never 
let  the  blush  of  shame  come  upon  your 


countenance  on  account  of  having  kept 
the  commandments  of  God.  He  will 
sustain  you,  and  give  you  strength  ac- 
cording to  your  day. 

I    feel    well    in    my   labors   in  the 
Church  of  Christ.    I  am  thankful  I  am 
considered   worthy   to   be  numbered 
amongst  you;  and  I  hope  to  be  humble 
and    diligent    in  the    performance  of 
my    duty   as    an  Apostle  of  the  Lord. 
Jesus  Christ.    I  trust  there  will  be  no 
duty  required  of  me  that  I  will  not  be 
able  to  respond  to.    We  all  should  fftel 
alike  in  regard  to  these  things.  The 
Lord  is  no  respecter  of    persons.  He 
thinks  just  as  much  of  you  as  He  does 
of  me.    Which  of  you  having  children 
can  justly  say,  I  love  this  one,  and 
hate  the  other?    Neither  is  it  so  with 
our  Father  in  heaven.    He  loves  all 
His  sons  and  daughters,  and  is  willing 
to  open  the  windows    of    heaven  and 
pour  out  blessings  upon  our  heads  that 
we  shall  not  have  room  to  receive.  But 
no  blessing  will  come  unto  the  children 
of  men,  except  by  obedience  to  law. 
"Blessed  are    they  that    hunger  and 
thirst   after   righteousness;    for  they 
shall  be  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost." 
'"Blessed   are    the   peacemakers;  for 
they  shall  be  called  the  children  of  God." 
etc.    Let  us  not  attempt  take  any  part 
of  the   Church   of   Christ   away,  nor 
add  anything  thereto.    Let  us  accept 
it  in  all  its  beautiful  symmetry;  and 
then  work  in  harmony  with  the  author- 
ities  whom   God   has   placed   in  His 
Church.    Who  are  they?    There  need 
be  no  question  about  that,  the  Apostle 
said:      "God  hath    set  some    in  the 
church.first  apostles,  secondarily  proph- 
ets, thirdly  teachers,"  etc.    What  for? 
"For  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints,  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edify- 
ing of  the  body  of  Christ."   Our  Lord 
and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  laid  His  hands 
upon  Peter  and  said  unto  him: 

"And  I  say  also  unto  thee,  That  thou 
art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  I  will 
build  my  church;  and  the  gates  of  hell 
shall  not  prevail  against  it. 

"And  I  will  give  unto  thee  the  keys 
of  the  kingdom  of  heaven;  and  what- 
soever thou  shalt  bind  on  earth  shall 
be  bound  in  heaven;  and  whatsoever 
thou  shalt  loose  on  earth  shall  be 
loosed  in  heaven." 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  other  day  I  heard  of  a  young 
man — an  exemplary  young  man  as  far 
as  I  can  understand —  who  was  about 
to  marry  a  wife,  and  he  was  so  busy 
with  his  labors  (he  is  a  school  teacher, 
I  think)  that  he  had  not  time  to  go 
to  the  temple — which  was  only  half  a 
days  journey — to  be  sealed  with  an 
eternal  union  and  bond  that  never 
should  be  broken;  but  he  intended  to 
pass  by  the  temple,  go  to  the  court 
house,  get  out  a  license,  and  there  be 
married  for  time.  Do  you  not  know 
that  people  married  for  time  are  among 
those  spoken  of  by  Isaiah  the  Prophet 
when  he  said,  "They  have  broken  the 
everlasting  covenant" — the  everlasting 
covenant  of  marriage;  for  in  ancient 
times  they  were  married  for  time  and 
eternity.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

Elder  Willard  Christophersen  sang 
the  favorite  hymn  "Shepherds  of 
Israel." 

ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  LEWIS. 
(President  of  Benson  Stake.) 

I  take  pleasure  in  reporting  the  Ben- 
son Stake  in  this  Conference,  and  I 
trust  that  my  remarks  may  be  dictated 
by  the  Spirit  of  Almighty  God. 

The  Benson  stake  of  Zion  is  situated 
near  the  north  boundary  line  of  the 
state;  and  there  are  seven  wards  in  it, 
which  formerly  belonged  to  Cache 
Stake.  The  population  of  the  Stake  is 
about  six  thousand.  This  season  we 
have  been  blessed  with  a  reasonably 
good  harvest  on  the  east  side  and  in 
the  center  of  the  valley;  but  on  the 
west  side  of  the  valley,  which  is  an 
arid  district  without  water,  the  crops 
have  not  been  so  good.  We  are  endeav- 
oring to  keep  pace  with  the  other 
Stakes  of  Zion,  in  observing  the  in- 
structions that  are  given  by  the  ser- 
vants of  God.  At  Richmond  we  have 
in  course  of  erection,  and  nearing  com- 
pletion, a  condensed  milk  factory,  which 
we  anticipate  will  furnish  employment 
for  a  large  number  of  people,  so  that 
the  young  people  need  not  have  to  go 
far  to  find  work.  We  are  mainly  an 
agricultural  community;  farming  and 
dairying  constitute  our  chief  occupa- 
tions.   From  a  financial  standpoint,  the 


people  are  fairly  prosperous.  On  the 
west  side  of  the  valley,  we  have  in 
course  of  construction  a  canal,  upon 
which  has  been  expended  $120,000,  and 
we  are  still  bending  our  efforts  in  that 
direction,  that  we  may  increase  facili- 
ties to  make  successful  and  pleasant 
homes  for  the  Latter-day  Saints.  There 
is  a  great  deal  of  good  farming  coun- 
try that  has  not  been  brought  to  the 
state  of  high  cultivation  we  hope  to  see 
it  attain  in  the  near  future.  We  feel 
it  our  mission  to  do  all  the  good  we  can 
for  the  people  of  whom  we  are  a  part; 
our  united  efforts  are  to  build  up  Zion. 
In  the  north  part  of  the  valley,  lands 
have  been  purchased  with  a  view  to 
the  erection  of  a  sugar  factory.  The 
project  has  not  taken  practical  shape 
at  the  present  time,  but  it  is  progress- 
ing in  a  fair  way.  We  believe  it  is  an 
enterprise  that  would  help  to  develop 
the  resources  of  the  country. 

The  people  as  a  rule,  have  paid  a  good 
proportion  of  tithing;  we  cannot  say 
yet  what  it  will  amount  to  this  year. 

The  presidency  of  the  Stake  meet  to- 
gether once  a  week,  on  Thursday  even- 
ings, and  discuss  matters  pertaining  to 
the  spiritual  and  temporal  interests  of 
the  people.  The  presiding  authorities 
are  united,  and  our  efforts  are  to  bene- 
fit the  people  over  whom  we  preside. 
The  High  Counselors  are  good  men,  and 
we  meet  with  them  once  a  month.  The 
members  of  the  High  Council  visit 
among  the  people  as  home  missionaries, 
and  we  aim  to  have  return  missionaries 
who  come  home  filled  with  the  spirit  of 
their  calling,  act  in  this  capacity  also. 
We  release  them  at  the  end  of  six 
months,  and  appoint  others.  The  quor- 
ums and  auxiliary  organizations  are  in 
good  working  order,  and  the  officers  of 
the  various  societies  visitthe  settlements 
every  week  or  two,  in  the  interest  of 
their  respective  organizations.  They 
are  endeavoring  to  carry  out  the  in- 
structions given  by  the  general  boards. 
There  has  been  and  is  a  disposition  on 
the  part  of  some  of  the  people,  I  have 
thought,  to  incur  debt  beyond  their  fin- 
ancial ability  to  make  payment.  We 
have  warned  them  earnestly  in  regard 
to  the  bondage  of  debt,  and  advised 
them  to  extricate  themselves.  Where 


ELDER   DAVID  CAMERON. 


47 


their  homes  are  mortgaged,  they  are 
urged  to  raise  the  mortgages  as  quickly 
as  possible;  and  not  get  anything  they 
cannot  pay  for,  so  that  they  may  be 
free  to  go  and  preach  the  Gospel  when 
called  upon,  either  at  home  or  abroad, 
We  have  a  generally  good  people  in  the 
Benson  Stake.  The  presidency,  the  mis- 
sionaries, and  others  who  have  to  labor 
among  the  people,  can  go  to  the  farthest 
settlement,  hold  two  meetings,  and  re- 
turn the  same  day,  the  distance  being 
only  about  IS  miles.  We  think  it  not  a 
great  task  to  go  that  far.  Before  Cache 
Stake  was  divided,  some  of  us  had  to 
go  20  miles  to  Logan.  Whatever  is 
necessary  to  do  in  the  interest  of  our 
Stake,  we  hope  to  be  able  to  do  it. 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  this  is  the 
work  of  Almighty  God,  and  that  it 
has  come  to  stay.  There  is  nothing  of 
value  to  me  outside  of  His  kingdom.  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  truly  a 
Prophet,  and  that  Brigham  Young, 'John 
Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff,  Lorenzo 
Snow  and  Joseph  F.  Smith  are  his  law- 
ful successors.  I  pray  that  God  may 
bless  those  who  are  endeavoring  to  roll 
on  His  work  and  to  establish  His  pur- 
poses in  the  earth,  and  give  them  wis- 
dom and  power  to  do  so  to  their  entire 
satisfaction,  and  to  the  approval  of  the 
Master.  That  this  may  be  our  happy 
lot,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
our  Lord.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  CAMERON, 
(President  of  Panguitch  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  lit- 
tle surprise  to  me  to  be  called  today  to 
report  the  Panguitch  stake,  as  I  report- 
ed it  at  the  last  conference;  but  I  am 
pleased  and  willing  to  do  so  again.  In 
meeting  with  the  people  in  general  con- 
ference, and  receiving  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  I  always  feel  an  increased  deter- 
mination to  do  better  in  the  future  than 
I  have  in  the  past. 

The  Panguitch  stake  is  located  in  the 
southern  part  of  Utah,  adjoining  Ari- 
zona. We  have  ten  wards  and  one 
branch,  and  a  little  over  3,600  souls. 
The  ward  closest  to  the  town  of  Pan- 
guitch is  about  20  miles  distant,  the 
farthest  one  is  about  70.   It  is  a  journey 


of  about  200  miles  to  go  around  the 
Panguitch  stake.  We  do  not  calculate 
on  visiting  all  the  wards  on  one  trip; 
for  we  try  to  arrange  to  visit  the  peo- 
ple, as  much  as  possible,  on  Sundays, 
consequently,  it  takes  from  two  to  four 
days  to  visit  each  ward.  We  have,  in  a 
general  sense,  a  good  people  in  Pan- 
guitch stake;  nevertheless,  there  are 
some  who  are  not  living  up  to  the  re- 
quirements of  the  Gospel.  There  - are 
individuals  on  the  records  of  the  Church 
who  take  no  interest  whatever  in  the 
work;  they  pay  no  tithing,  and  do  none 
of  the  works  pertaining  to  the  Gospel. 
The  teachers  visit  them,  but  T  hw- 
heard  some  of  the  teachers  remark 
they  were  about  tired  visiting  certain 
families  or  individuals.  We  are  re- 
quired to  visit  every  non-tithepayer  in 
the  stake.  Some  who  are  visited  give 
reasons  for  not  paying,  and  they  are 
reported  to  the  Presiding  Bishop;  oth- 
ers state  they  do  not  believe  in  the 
principle.  I  have  wondered  if  such  in- 
dividuals should  be  allowed  to  remain 
as  members  of  the  Church;  apparently 
they  cannot  be  converted.  The  stake 
report  goes  to  the  Presiding  Bishop's 
office,  with  a  record  of  tithepayers,  part 
tithepayers,  and  non-tithepayers,  and 
not  only  is  every  individual  judged  ac- 
cording to  his  works,  but  the  stake  is 
judged  also.  I  have  said  to  such  people 
that  if  they  do  not  propose  to  keep 
the  laws  of  God,  they  should  ask  to  be 
separated  from  the  Church,  because  it 
is  a  detriment  for  them  to  remain  mem- 
bers and  do  nothing.  We  have  in  our 
stake  about  60  missionaries;  they  visit 
the  various  wards  once  a  month.  Every 
ward  in  the  stake  is  visited  on  the  same 
Sabbath;  if  any  of  the  missionaries  are 
unable  to  visit  on  the  appointed  Sab- 
bath, they  notify  the  Bishop  of  the 
ward,  and  inform  him  when  they  will 
visit.  As  far  as  our  tithing  is  con- 
cerned, we  cannot  tell  anything  about 
this  year's  payments.  Last  year's  was 
a  little  less  than  usual.  There  were 
various  reasons  for  this  shortage,  the 
principal  one  being  the  drouth. 

I  remember  many  years  ago,  when  I 
was  a  boy,  hearing  President  Young 
state  in  Provo,  where  I  lived,  some- 
thing like  this:  "Some  people  may  think 


48 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


I  am  not  leading  the  Church  aright. 
Now,  I  will  tell  you  how  you  may- 
know  when  I  do  not  lead  the  Church 
aright.  The  Lord  will  just  nip  my  wind; 
for  He  will  never  allow  any  man  to 
lead  this  Church  astray."  I  have  had  a 
great  deal  of  confidence  in  that  say- 
ing, and  I  have  not  been  the  least 
alarmed  in  regard  to  the  leading  of  this 
Church.  I  know  it  is  the  Church  of 
Christ;  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  prophet;  and  I  know,  if  we  live  ac- 
cording to  the  requirements  of  the  Gos- 
pel, we  will  be  saved  and  exalted.  That 
God  may  bless  us  and  give  us  His 
Spirit,  that  we  may  observe  His  laws 
and  keep  His  commandments,  is  mj* 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

Should  be  In  harmony  with  divine  teachings — 
,  Promises  to  the  faithful — A  marvelous  work — 
Obedient  entiilcd  to  a  testimony  of  the  truth — 
Training  in  the  family  circle. 

While  listening  to  the  instructions 
given,  especially  this  morning,  with  re- 
gard to  the  false  influences  that  are  in 
the  world,  it  brought  to  my  mind  a 
revelation  that  was  given  in  1831.  You 
will  find  it  in  the  46th  section  of  the 
Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants;  I  will 
commence  reading  at  the  7th  verse: 

"But  ye  are  commanded  in  all  things 
to  ask  of  God,  who  giveth  liberally;  and 
that  which  the  Spirit  testifies  unto  you, 
even  so  I  would  that  ye  should  do  in 
all  holiness  of  heart,  walking  upright- 
ly before  me,  considering  the  end  of 
your  salvation,  doing  all  things  with 
prayer  and  thanksgiving,  that  we  may 
not  be  seduced  by  evil  spirits,  or  doc- 
trines of  devils,  or  the  commandments 
of  men  for  some  are  of  men,  and  others 
of  devils. 

"Wherefore,  beware  lest  ye  be  de- 
ceived; and  that  ye  may  not  be  de- 
ceived seek  ye  earnestly  the  best  gifts, 
always  remembering  for  what  they  are 
given." 

When  the  Lord  commenced  this  "mar- 
velous work  and  a  wonder,"  He  gave 
some  instruction  to  all  who  became 
members  of  His  Church.  You  will  find 
in  the  fourth  section  of  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  commencing 
at  the  2nd  verse,  these  words: 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the 
service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  Him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and 


strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless 
before  God  at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve 
God,  ye  are  called  to  the  work." 

What  work?  Why,  this  "marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder"  that  the  Lord 
said  He  was  going  to  usher  in  among 
the  children  of  men.  This  revelation 
was  given  in  1829,  and  the  Lord  said, 
"Now,  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is 
about  to  come  forth  among  the  children 
of  men."    The  revelation  continues: 

"And  faith  hope,  charity  and  love, 
with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of 
God,  qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge, 
temperance  patience  brotherly  kindness, 
godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence. 

"Ask  and  ye  shall  receive  knock  and 
it  shall  be  opened  unto  you." 

I  regard  these  as  precious  instructions 
that  have  come  unto  the  members  of 
the  Church  of  Christ,  in  order  that  by 
their  observance  they  may  make  their 
calling  and  election  sure.  I  fear  we  do 
not  sufficiently  value  the  blessing  that 
has  been  bestowed  upon  us  in  having 
the  privilege  of  living  upon  the  earth 
in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times;  nor  fully  realize  the  need  of  be- 
ing in  harmony  with  these  choice  prin- 
ciples that  the  Lord  has  revealed;  nor 
appreciate  as  we  should  the  precious 
promises  made  to  those  who  love  Him 
and  keep  Hs  commandments.  In  con- 
nection with  this,  I  want  to  refer  to  the 
benefits  resulting  to  us  individually 
from  keeping  the  commandments  of 
God.  I  will  now  read  from  the  93rd 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  it  shall 
come  to  pass  that  every  soul  who  for- 
saketh  their  sins  and  cometh  unto  me, 
and  calleth  on  my  name,  and  obeyeth 
my  voice  and  keepeth  my  command- 
ments, shall  see  my  face  and  know 
that  I  am." 

I  consider  this  is  a  most  precious 
promise.  Of  course,  in  the  service  of 
i  we  have  something  to  do.  We 
who  have  been  warned,  and  have  a 
living  testimony,  the  Lord  requires  us 
to  be  faithful  in  bearing  that  testimony, 
so  that  the  nations  may  be  left  without 
excuse.  We  need  not  say  much  more 
than  state  the  results  of  our  experience. 
We  who  were  raised  in  the  world,  were 
subject  to  priestcraft,  and  false  doc- 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


49 


trine,  and  evil  influences,  but  the  Lord, 
in  His  loving  kindness  and  tender 
mercy,  and  in  the  wonderful  dispen- 
sations of  His  providence,  brought  us 
into  His  Church.  He  drew  us  into  the 
fold.  Very  few  of  us  would  have  had 
the  moral  courage  to  accept,  the  un- 
popular doctrine  of  Christ,  under  the 
circumstances  in  which  we  were  placed, 
had  we  not  been  sustained  by  the  power 
of  God;  for  we  are  human,  and  it  is 
natural  to  shrink  from  being  on  the 
unpopular  side.  We  like  to  enjoy  the 
good  feeling  and  affection  of  our  rela- 
tives and  friends;  but  when  we  accept- 
ed the  unpopular  doctrine  of  Jesus 
Christ,  they  looked  upon  us  as  being 
deluded,  deceived,  and  subject  to 
priestcraft  and  false  doctrine.  Well, 
if  we  had  been  deceived,  would  it  not 
have  been  better  for  them  to  have  tried 
to  lead  us  from  the  error  of  our  ways, 
instead  of  condemning  us  so  severely? 
But,  we  were  convinced  we  had  embrac- 
ed the  everlasting  Gospel,, which  the  Lord 
had  restored  to  the  earth.  We  en- 
quired of  the  Lord,  and  He  heard  and 
answered  our  prayers. 

We  believe  the  revelations  Joseph 
Smith  received  from  the  Almighty,  and 
know  they  did  not  emanate  from  ignor- 
ance and  superstition.  I  have  read 
some  of  them  to  you;  surely  they  can 
not  impress  anybody  that  they  are  false 
doctrines.  God  is  the  same  yesterday, 
today  and  forever.  Whenever  He  has 
had  a  people  upon  the  earth  He  has 
communicated  with  them.  That  is  the 
object  of  the  oGspel.  How  could 
we  seek  the  Lord  if  we  did 
not  believe  that  He  lives,  and 
that  He  is  a  rewarder  of 
those  who  diligently  seek  Him?  How 
could  we  ask  of  him  if  we  did  not  be 
lieve  He  is  our  loving  Father,  our  Crea- 
tor; that  we  are  in  His  likeness,  and 
are  His  children,  eternal  as  He  Himself 
is?  The  thought  of  having  the  privilege 
to  communicate  with  our  Creator 
should  be  an  inspiration  to  any  man  or 
woman  who  desires  to  be  kind  to  him- 
self or  to  herself. 

There  is  no  misrepresentation  about 
this;  simple  facts  are  what  we  deal 
with.  When  we  declare  to  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  earth  that  the  Lord  has 


spoken  again  from  the  heavens,  has  re- 
vealed Himself,  and  has  restored  to  the 
earth  His  Church,  as  He  promised,  with 
apostles,  .prophets,  evangelists,  pastors 
and  teachers,  we  simply  speak  the 
truth.  In  this  restoration  the  Lord 
gave  to  all  the  opportunity  of  obtaining 
redemption  from  death  and  hell,  and  of 
being  associated  with  the  "marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder"  spoken  of  by  the 
Prophet  Isaiah.  The  Lord  said  through 
that  Prophet: 

"Forasmuch  as  this  people  draw  near 
me  with  their  mouth,  and  with  their 
lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  removeu 
their  heart  far  from  me  and  their  fear 
toward  me,  is  taught  by  the  precept  of 
men: 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to 
do  a  marvelous  work  among  this  peo- 
ple, even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  won- 
der: for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men 
shall  perish,  and  the  understanding 
their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid." — 
Isaiah,  29:  13,  14. 

The  Apostle  Paul  said  "the  things  oi 
God  knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of 
God,"  showing  that  it  is  necessary  for 
us  to  be  taught  of  God  by  His  Spirit. 
Jesus  promised  that  whoso  would  do 
the  will  of  the  Father  should  know  ot 
the  doctrine.  He  also  said,  "Not  every 
one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord, 
shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven; 
but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Fath- 
er which  is  in  heaven."  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  received,  and  are  con- 
tinually receiving  testimonies.  During 
the  past  50  years  I  have  heard  many 
individuals  testify  that  they  knew  Jo- 
seph Smith  was  a  true  Prophet  sent  of 
God,  they  knew  Jesus  was  the  Christ, 
and  they  knew  that  God  the  Eternal 
Father  lived,  by  the  evidences  they 
have  had  in  their  individual  exper- 
iences. Now,  God  is  no  respecter  of  per- 
sons. We  are  all  His  children,  and  the 
Gospel  is  being  preached  in  all  the 
world  for  a  witness,  that  all  who  desire 
eternal  life  may  have  the  privilege  of 
receiving  it.  Those  who  are  in  darkness, 
in  idolatry,  and  under  false  impres- 
sions, may  have  the  privilege  of  be- 
holding the  light  that  shines  forth. 
They  may  obtain  this  living  testimony 
by  seeking  to  the  Lord  for  it.  Ask  of 
God  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  for  light  and  truth,  and 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


a  knowledge  as  to  whether  this  won- 
derful work  is  of  God.  He  has  promised 
to  draw  nigh  unto  those  who  will  draw 
nigh  unto  Him.  God  has  chosen  the 
weak  things  of  the  earth  "and  things 
which  are  nought,  to  bring  to  naught 
things  which  are." 

We  are  not  a  people  gifted  in  the 
wisdom  of  the  world;  in  fact,  it  is  said 
that  the  children  of  this  world  are 
wiser  in  their  generation  than  the  chil- 
dren of  light.  But  we  know  what  we 
are  doing;  we  know  that  we  have  the 
truth.  "We  know  that  we  can  have  com- 
munion with  the  Almighty;  we  know 
that  He  hears  and  answers  prayer.  In 
every  well-regulated  family,  prayer  is 
offered  at  least  twice  a  day — morning 
and  evening.  In  the  morning,  when  we 
are  entering  upon  the  duties  of  the  day, 
if  we  have  wisdom,  and  understand  the 
value  of  the  fellowship  of  the  Spirit  of 
God,  we  naturally  ask  for  what  we 
need,  and,  of  course,  we  go  down  on 
our  knees  to  do  so.  If  we  believe  we 
are  the  children  of  God,  that  He  hears 
and  answers  prayer:  and  that  He 
can  protect  us  from  all  evil, 
naturally  we  will  pray  to  Him, 
because  we  want  His  blessing  for 
ourselves,  and  for  our  wives  and  chil- 
dren. We  should  also  pray  for  those 
upon  whom  rests  the  responsibility  of 
guiding  and  directing  the  affairs  of  the 
Church  of  Christ  on  the  earth.  Then, 
if  we  acknowledge  the  hand  of  God  in 
all  things,  we  will  naturally  ask  a 
blessing  on  our  food,  believing  that 
the  Lord  is  able  to  make  it  nourishing 
and  strengthening  to  us,  and  impart  to 
us  the  principle  of  life.  He  has  given 
unto  us  the  "Word  of  Wisdom  for  our 
temporal  salvation — not  by  command- 
ment or  constraint,  but  teaching  us 
how  to  live  that  we  may  enjoy  health, 
and  have  nerve  power  to  live  out  our 
full  time,  and  not  be  guilty  of  partak- 
ing of  anything  that  will  bring  dis- 
tress and  pain  upon  us.  That  shows 
how  kind  and  loving  a  Father  we  have, 
He  even  teaches  His  children  what  to 
eat  and  drink,  and  what  to  avoid. 

Because  of  the  way  many  of  us  have 
been  educated,  it  was  difficult  to  think 
it  possible  for  us  to  hold  communion 


with  the  Great  Creator  of  the  heavens, 
the  earth  and  the  fountains  of  water. 
But  we  now  know  that  this  is  possible. 
We  must  remember,  however,  that  we 
cannot  do  anything  without  His  Spirit. 
We  must  have  the  fellowship  of  the  Ho- 
ly Ghost,  and  we  can  obtain  it  by  right- 
eous conduct,  and  by  asking  with  an 
honest  heart.  The  Lord  knows  our 
hearts;  He  knows  our  secret  lives;  He 
understands  everything  concerning  us. 
He  hath  said  to  the  sinner,  "When  the 
wicked  man  turneth  away  from  his 
wickedness  that  he  hath  comitted,  and 
doeth  that  which  is  lawful  and  right, 
he  shall  save  his  soul  alive."  This  is 
a  precious  promise  to  the  erring  chil- 
dren of  the  Father.  Our  message  to 
the  sinner  is  that  if  he  will  repent,cease 
to  do  evil  and  learn  to  do  well,  he 
shall  receive  a  remission  of  his  sins, 
through  obedience  to  the  Gospel  and 
dedicating  the  rest  of  his  life  to  the 
service  of  God.  What  a  bright  and 
glorious  outlook,  to  be  redeemed  from 
sin  and  to  have  the  privilege  of  walk- 
ing in  the  light,  receiving  salvation, and 
obtaining  a  glorious  resurrection!  The 
Creator  hath  given  us  these  glad  tid- 
ings of  great  joy  to  carry  to  the  people. 
Our  testimonies  are  true.  We  know 
we  shall  have  to  meet  the  people  to 
whom  we  have  borne  testimony,  and 
then  they  will  know  most  assuredly 
that  we  taught  them  the  truth.  All 
the  faithful  advocates  of  the  Church 
of  Christ  have  a  living  testimony  con- 
cerning this  work.  The  Lord  desires 
to  establish  His  righteousness  upon  the 
earth,  and  to  make  us  better  individual- 
ly. We  have  an  individuality,  and  I 
suppose  each  of  us  is  pretty  well  satis- 
fied with  it:  I  don't  know  that  any  of 
us  ever  wanted  to  be  anybody  else.  The 
object  of  the  Gospel  is  to  improve  that 
individuality. 

I  say  to  this  congregation  there  is 
but  one  Lord,  one  faith,  one.  baptism, 
one  Go  i  and  Father  of  us  all,  we  all 
have  to  submit  to  the  same  conditions. 
The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  said,  when  John 
objected  to  baptizing  Him,  "Suffer  it 
to  be  so  now;  for  thus  it  becometh  us 
to  fulfill  all  righteousness."  Well,  we 
must  fulfill  "all  righteousness."  We 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


51 


must  have  faith  in  the  living  and  true 
God,  and  in  the  atonement  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  worship  God  in  His  name. 
These  conditions  are  common  to  all  the 
world,  and  must  be  complied  with  by 
those  who  desire  to  be  redeemed.  It  is 
also  essential  that  we  repent,  and  offer 
unto  the  Lord  a  broken  heart  and  a 
contrite  spirit.  It  is  necessary  that  we 
be  baptized  by  immersion,  for  the  re- 
mission of  sins,  that  we  be  born  of  the 
water,  and  thus  be  fitted  and  prepared 
for  sanctification  by  the  blood  of  Christ. 
Then,  we  must  receive  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  It  is  the  only  way  by 
which  mankind  can  be  redeemed,  and 
obtain  a  glorious  resurrection.  Then 
we  will  be  in  harmony  with  the  eternal 
principles  of  the  Gospel. 

The  family  altar  should  be  in  every 
man's  house;  he  is  the  patriarch  of  the 
family,  and  everything  should  be 
done  under  his  direction.  He 
should  offer  prayer;  his  wife  and 
children  also  should  offer  prayer 
in  turn  around  the  family  altar.  Tou 
cannot  be  a  Saint  without  the  fellow- 
ship of  the  Spirit  of  God;  and  you 
should  train  your  children  that  they 
also  may  know  the  benefit  of  having 
its  fellowship.  We  have  embarked  in 
the  service  of  God,  and  He  desires  us 
to  obey  Him  and  keep  His  command- 
ments. He  hath  said,  "Ye  are  com- 
manded in  all  things  to  ask  of  God, 
who  giveth  liberally,  and  upbraideth 
not."  Now,  you  know  whether  you  do 
this  or  not,  and  whether  you  train 
your  children  to  do  it.  You  know  if 
the  voice  of  prayer,  thanksgiving  and 
praise  is  heard  in  your  habitations.  I 
say  that  is  the  wa>  to  train  up  our 
children.  They  have  their  individual- 
ity, and  we  cannot  give  unto  them  the 
testimony  we  possess;  they  have  to  re- 
ceive the  light  in  the  same  way  we  re- 
ceived it.  They  have  to  receive  reve- 
lation from  the  source  from 
which  we  obtained  it.  The  only 
way  we  can  help  them  in  this 
matter  is  to  manifest  unto  them  that 
we  believe  in  God,  and  in  the  worship 
of  God;  and  tell  them  what  they  should 
ask  for.  If  we  train  our  children 
properly,  they  won't  go  far  astray.  It 
is     the     duty     of     the     wife  when 


the  husband  is  away,  to  con- 
tinue prayers  and  the  worship 
of  God  in  the  household,  and 
to  see  that  the  children  are  properly 
trained,  and  are  taught  the  law  of 
tithing,  and  the  other  es&ential  princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel. 

The  law  of  tithing  is  a  divine  law. 
The  Lord  does  not  require  more  of 
one  than  of  another.  One-tenth  is  re- 
quired of  all,  no  matter  what  our  cir- 
cumstances may  be.  A  man  is  no  friend 
to  himself  if  he  rejects  the  laws  of  God. 
He  is  unkind  to  himself  when  he  ig- 
nores principles  that  lead  to  everlast- 
ing life.  I  would  not  for  the  world  be 
without  the  living  testimony  that  God 
has  given  to  me;  the  voice  of  thanks- 
giving and  praise  is  heard  from  me, 
because  I  am  grateful  for  that  testi- 
mony. When  I  think  of  what  I  might 
have  been,  if  I  had  been  left  in  the 
beggarly  elements  of  the  world;  and 
when  I  think  that  God,  in  His  loving 
kindness,  brought  me  out  of  the  world, 
and  gave  me  the  moral  courage  to  en- 
dure contumely,  and  to  be  evil  spoken 
of,  I  feel  to  praise  and  glorify  His  holy 
name. 

I  pray  God  that  the  spirit  of  this  con- 
ference may  be  and  abide  with  us.  I 
pray  that  we  may  remain  converted, 
and  that  we  may  serve  the  Lord  with 
full  purpose  of  heart,  doing  His  will 
and  keeping  His  commandments,  that 
His  name  may  be  glorified,  through 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  : 

All  hail  the  glorious  day, 
By  Prophets  long  foretold. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Seymour  B. 
Young. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 
The  choir  sang  the  hymn: 

How  are  Thy  servants  blessed;  O  Lord, 

How  sure  is  their  defense! 
Eternal  wisdom  is  their  guide, 

Their  help,  Omnipotence. 

Opening  prayer  by  Bishop  William  B. 
Preston. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

We're  not  ashamed  to  own  our  Lord, 
And  worship  Him  on  earth; 

We  love  to  learn  his  holy  word, 
And  know  what  souls  are  worth. 


cct  r,  wo? 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


52 

ELDER  M.  F.  COWLEY. 

The  Saints  responsible  to  .God- How  we  are  re- 
garded by  the  world— United  order  versus  so- 
cialism—Necessity of  exact  compliance  with 
law  of  tithing — Development  of  natural  re- 
sources— Important  general  duties. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters.I  re 
joice  with  you  in  the  privilege  of  at- 
tending this  conference,  and,  feeling 
my  weakness  in  standing  before  you.  I 
am  anxious  that  you  will  sustain  ma 
by  your  prayers  of  faith,  that  the 
Holy  Spirit  may  suggest,  as  He  has 
done  to  the  other  brethren,  what  ought 
to  be  said. 

Many  good  things  are  said  to  us.  and 
the  benefit  that  we  shall  derive  from 
them  will  depend  upon  the  use  we  make 
of  them.  We  should  not  be  hearers  of 
the  word  alone;  we  should  be  doers 
of  it.  It  is  the  doing  of  the  word  of 
God,  the  keeping  of  His  commandments 
in  all  things,  that  will  count  to  our 
credit,  to  our  salvation  from  the  evils 
of  this  life,  and  to  our  complete  re- 
demption from  the  effects  of  sin  and 
the  fall,  in  the  life  which  is  to  come. 

This  is  a  practical  work.  It  is  a  work 
in  which  every  individual  should  feel 
a  personal  responbility — a  responsibil- 
ity that  awakens  a  consciousness  in 
our  souls  that  God  expects  something 
of  us,  and  that  we  are  accountable 
to  Him  for  the  light  which  we  have  re- 
ceived. We  are  indebted  to  the 
Lord,  and  not  to  man,  for  the  light 
that  we  have,  and  for  the  situation  that 
we  occupy  before  the  world  in  a  re- 
ligious sense.  I  claim  that  every 
favorable  condition  surrounding  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  every  blessing 
we  enjoy,  whether  it  be  spiritual  or 
temporal,  is  due  to  the  Gospel  and  the 
great  work  God  has  established.  Our 
situation  in  these  mountains  is  not  the 
result  of  the  wisdom  of  man.  A  gen- 
tleman said  to  me  the  other  day,  as 
we  were  coming  through  Echo,  "When 
Brigham  Young  established  himself 
and  his  people  in  these  mountain  val- 
leys he  made  no  mistake.  He  under- 
stood that  it  was  the  best  spot  of  earth 
between  the  Missouri  river  and  the 
Pacific  coast,  and  was  the  place  for  the 
people."  Of  course,  he  told  the  truth, 
but  he  did  not  wish  to  acknowledge 
that    President    Brigham    Young  was 


guided  in  the  selection  of  this  land  by 
the  spirit  of  revelation  from  God.  He 
did  not  feel  to  acknowledge  that  God 
had  His  hand  in  it  at  all.  It  is  the 
same  in  regard  to  every  other  feature 
of  this  work.  We  had  pointed  out  to 
us  this  morning  very  clearly,  througn 
the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost  upot* 
Elder  Taylor,  how  that  the  Gospel,  re- 
stored through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  is  affecting  the  religious 
world.  This  is  true,  and  they  are  prov- 
ing that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet 
of  God,  whether  they  believe  it  or  not. 
But  they  are  not  adopting  our  ideas 
for  the  purpose  of  drawing  interest  to 
this  work,  or  of  establishing  any  dispo- 
sition in  the  hearts  of  the  people  to  in- 
vestigate what  they  call  "Mormon- 
ism."  They  have  no  such  purpose  in 
view.  And  in  this  connection  I  want 
to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
understanding  as  we  do  that  these 
truths  have  emanated  from  God, »  and 
have  been  presented  to  us  in  His  rev- 
elations to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  we  ought  not  to  be  so  blind  as 
to  go  off  after  some  kind  of  a  side 
issue. 

I  met  a  brother  some  time  ago  who 
was  quite  prominent  in  the  community 
where  he  lived,  and  he  had  organized  a 
little  socialistic  party,  which,  I  sup- 
pose, from  a  political  standpoint,  he 
had  a  right  to  do;  but  he  told  me  that 
all  the  people  ought  to  be  socialists, 
for  the  reason  that  socialism,  he  said, 
is  the  United  Order,  and  the  more  we 
can  get  .to  join  the  Socialist  party  the 
easier  it  will  be  to  establish  the  United 
Order  when  the  time  comes.  I  had  to 
ask  him  if  he  was  so  blind  as  to  be- 
lieve that  after  God  has  revealed  the 
principles  of  the  United  Order,  and  the 
people  are  not  prepared  to  carry  them 
out,  you  can  go  to  some  institution  of 
the  world  and  find  those  principles  and 
exemplify  them  for  the  benefit  of  man- 
kind. I  told  him  that  no  matter  how 
near  the  world  come  to  the 
theories  of  the  Gospel,  no  matter  how 
much  they  try  to  establish  them,  with- 
out the  Spirit  of  the  Gospel  and  the 
authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  they 
never  can  carry  them  out,  worlds  with- 
out end.     Humanity  is  too  selfish  to 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


53 


carry  out  these  great  laws  of  God.  The 
disposition  of  the  world  to  accept  some 
of  the  theories  and  doctrines  of  the 
Gospel  as  enunciated  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  over  70  years  ago,  is  de- 
signed by  the  adversary  as  a  delusion 
more  than  anything  else.  I  remember 
trying  to  show  a  preacher  that  these 
doctrines,  some  of  which  he  claimed  to 
believe,  had  been  advanced  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  over  70  years 
ago.  He  wanted  to  deny  it,  but  could 
not  bring  the  proof  to  sustain  his 
denial.  He  said  that  the  principle  of 
the  redemption  of  the  dead  was  inti- 
mated by  some  theologians  before  the 
days  of  Joseph  Smith.  In  this  way  they 
are  trying  to  keep  the  people  from  the 
fountain  of  truth.  In  effect  they  say 
to  the  people:  We  have  the  law  of 
tithing,  we  have  the  doctrine  of  the 
atonement  of  Christ,  and  we  believe  in 
infant  salvation,  and  you  need  not  join 
the  Latter-day  Saints  for  these  doc- 
trines. They  are  commencing  to  say 
that  they  have  the  doctrine  of  the  re- 
demption of  the  dead,  and  that  the 
spirts  are  preached  to  in  the  spirit 
world,  and  it  is  not  necessary  to  go  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  to  find  out  those 
things.  By  this  means  they  are  seek- 
ing to  keep  the  people  in  the  dark  and 
away  from  the  authority  of  God  where 
the  ordinances  of  eternal  life  are"  to 
be  found. 

With  the  testimony  that  we  have  of 
the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  I  say  that  no  Latter-day 
Saint  is  justified  in  going  after  these 
spirts  and  following  after  these  insti- 
tutions in  the  world,  whether  they  be 
of  a  spiritual  or  of  a  temporal  na- 
ture. God  has  established  His  work, 
and  within  it  is  found  every  element 
that  is  essential  for  the  salvation  of 
the  people,  temporally  and  spirtually. 
The  Lord  has  revealed  unto  us 
a  plan  of  temporal  salvation. 
He  has  given  us  the  law  of 
tithing.  He  has  said  that  if  we  abide 
by  that  law  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of 
Zion  unto  us,  and  by  this  law  it  shall 
be  consecrated.  This  is  the  word  of 
the  Lord  to  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  in  connection  with  it  He 
has    promised    that    the    seed  of  the 


righteous  shall  never  be  found  begging 
for  bread.  Have  we  faith,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  carry  out  the  laws 
of  God,  that  we  may  enjoy  the  bless- 
ings which  come  from  obedience  there- 
to? As  has  been  stated,  men  of  the 
world  have  discernment  enough  to  see 
that  there  is  some  power  in  this  work 
which  they  do  not  comprehend.  One 
of  our  leading  senators,  who  is  now 
deceased,  made  the  statement  in  Cali- 
fornia that  the  "Mormon"  Church  was 
the  only  religious  institution  on  earth 
that  contemplated  the  temporal  salva- 
tion of  its  members.  He  stated  that 
in  the  city  of  San  Francisco  were 
people  reveling  in  wealth,  while  side 
by  side  with  them  were  others  in  the 
dregs  of  poverty;  but  the  "Mormon" 
Church,  he  said,  looked  after  the  poor. 
By  their  law  of  tithing  they  see  that 
no  one  suffers,  they  build  their  temples 
and  their  sacred  houses;  and  after 
awhile,  by  their  law  of  consecration 
and  stewardship  they  claim  to  have  a 
union  in  spiritual  and  temporal  things 
that  will  bind  the  people  together  com- 
pletely. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  our 
duty  to  keep  these  glorious  principles 
in  view.  I  do  not  know  of  any  path 
of  safety  for  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
only  that  which  finds  us  in  the  dis- 
charge of  every  duty.  When  our  tith- 
ing is  due,  we  should  pay  it,  and  not 
put  it  off  to  the  end  of  the  year.  If 
we  use  that  which  belongs  to  the  Lord, 
when  we  come  to  settle  our  tithing  it 
will  not  be  on  hand,  and  in  all  proba- 
bility we  shall  find  ourselves  unable  to 
pay  an  honest  tithing.  Those  who  have 
indulged  in  this  practise  ought  to  re- 
pent of  it.  We  should  pay  our  tithes 
when  our  substance  comes  to  us.  And 
we  should  pay  in  kind,  and  not  sub 
stitute  something  that  is  inferior  to 
that  which  we  ought  to  pay.  In  an- 
cient times  the  Lord  forbade  this.  I 
recall  that  the  Lord  actually  pronounc- 
ed a  curse  upon  anyone  who  would  of- 
fer as  a  sacrifice  anything  that  had  a 
blemish,  or  that  was  old  and  useless. 
It  was  designed  that  the  offering  should 
be  clean  and  pure  and  without  blemish, 
that  it  might  symbolize  in  the  best  pos- 
sible manner  the  offering  of  the  Son  of 


54 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE. 


God.  The  law  of  tithing  is  similar.  God 
does  not  demand  of  us  the  very  best, 
and  yet  He  would  not  be  displeased 
if  we  were  disposed  to  offer  the  best; 
but  He  is  not  pleased  when  we  select 
from  our  substance  that  which  is  the 
poorest  and  bring  it  into  His  store- 
house. You  perhaps  remember  the 
law  in  ancient  Israel  regarding  the  se- 
lection of  animals  that  were  to  be  con- 
secrated as  tithing.  The  Lord  said, 
that  every  one  that  passed  under  the 
rod  should  be  holy  to  the  Lord.  As 
I  undertstand  this,  they  had  what  we 
would  call  a  corral,  and  as  the  animals 
passed  out  one  at  the  time,  every  tenth 
one  was  marked  by  a  rod  in  the  hands 
of  the  man  who  stood  at  the  entrance, 
and  that  one  was  holy  unto  the  Lord. 
He  did  not  demand  the  best,  nor  did  He 
justify  the  selection  of  the  poorest;  but 
He  dealt  fairly  with  the  people.  Yet 
He  has  dealt  with  us  far  more  gen- 
erously than  He  did  with  ancient  Is- 
rael. When  we  think  of  how  He  has 
blessed  us  in  this  glorious  land — how 
the  people  are  extended  from  Canada 
on  the  north  to  Mexico  on  the  south — 
Fifty-one  stakes  of  Zion— and  how  we 
have  increased  and  prospered,  surely 
He  has  blessed  us  exceedingly. 

I  almost  shudder  sometimes  when  I 
hoar  men  say  they  have  made  great 
sacrifices  for  the  Gospel's  sake.  Have 
we  made  any  sacrifice  for  the  Gospel's 
sake?  Is  it  a  sacrifice  for  a  man  to  lay 
aside  his  sins?  Is  it  a  sacrifice  for  a 
man  who  is  addicted  to  tobacco,  to  lay 
it  aside?  or  addicted  to  liquor,  to  re- 
pent of  that  evil?  or  addicted  to  pro- 
fanity, to  lay  that  aside  and  honor 
the  name  of  Deity?  or  a  violator  of  the 
Sabbath  day,  or  guilty  of  any  vice, to  lay 
that  aside  and  purify  himself  by  obedi- 
ence to  the  laws  of  God?  Why,  it  is  no 
more  of  a  sacrifice  to  the  immortal 
spirit  of  man  than  it  is  to  wash  our 
bodies  when  they  are  unclean.  Now, 
I  have  never  been  across  the  ocean,  and 
I  have  not  personally  witnessed  the 
temporal  condition  of  the  Saints  of 
God  in  Europe;  but  I  have  been  in  the 
United  States,  and  I  have  mingled  with 
the  Saints    in     various    parts  of  the 


LTnion,  and  I  have  found  scores  and 
scores  of  families  that  did  not  own  one 
foot  of  land,  did  not  own  the  house 
that  covered  them,  and  did  not 
own  a  horse  or  a  cow.  They 
were  simply  tenants.  What  has 
brought  a  change  to  these 
families  and  made  them  prosperous  in 
these  mountain  valleys?  Has  it  not 
been  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?  Has 
it  not  been  the  principle  of  gathering? 
I  see  the  Salvation  Army  has  adopted 
the  principle  of  gathering  now.  They 
are  gathering  and  colonizing.  But  it 
is  the  great  work  of  God  that  has 
brought  us  here.  Where  in  all  these 
Stakes  of  Zion  are  the  families  that 
have  no  home  of  their  own?  What 
percentage  of  those  living  in  rural  dis- 
tricts do  not  possess  their  own  homes, 
with  teams  and  cows,  and  other  re- 
sources of  employment?  How  many 
are  there  in  such  a  destitute  condi- 
tion as  they  were  in  the  world?  I  will 
venture  to  say  that  there  are  very 
few  indeed.  And  let  me  say  furtner,  if 
the  Latter-day  Saints  were  prepared  to 
carry  out  the  counsel  of  the  servants 
of  God  there  would  be  a  still  better  con- 
dition among  us  than  there  is  today, 
speaking  from  a  temporal  standpoint. 

You  heard  what  Brother  Heber  J. 
Grant  said  yesterday  in  regard  to  the 
effort  that  had  to  be  made  to  establish 
and  maintain  one  little  sugar  factory 
in  the  community.  Men  feared  to  in- 
vest for  the  benefit  of  the  people,  and 
the  Lord  came  to  the  assistance  of  His 
servants.  He  inspired  President  Wood- 
ruff to  say  that  it  was  the  will  of  the 
Lord  that  that  should  not  be  a  failure. 
Nevertheless  we  had  to  send  outside 
and  borrow  money  of  the  Gentiles,  in 
order  to  establish  that  industry;  but 
they  have  been  paid  back,  and  the  en- 
terprise is  a  great  success.  So  I  say 
we  have  not  sacrificed  very  much  tem- 
porally for  the  Gospel's  sake.  When  it 
come?  to  religious  matters,  what  kind 
of  houses  of  worship  had  we  in  the 
world?  It  is  only  recently  that  we  had 
any  of  our  own  at  all.  Down  in  the 
Southern  States  they  used  to  burn  them 
up  almost  as  soon  as  they  were  built.  I 
believe  the  last  one  they  built  was  in 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  P.  COWLEY. 


55 


Kentucky,  and  in  order  that  it  might 
not  be  burned  down  they  insured  it; 
but  the  mob  took  axes  and  cattle  and 
tore  it  down,  and  pulled  the  logs  apart 
with  their    oxen,    in    order    to  beat 
around  the  protection  our  people  had 
placed  upon  it.    No  matter  about  that; 
as  I  was  saying,  our  people  had  very 
few  nice  houses  of  worship  to  meet  in 
before  they  gathered  to  Zion.   What  do 
we  find  here?    In  almost  every  ward 
we  find  a  suitable  place  of  worship, 
and  we  are  improving  in  this  direction 
all  the  time.    We  have  a  most  beauti- 
ful house  in  Pocatello — just  as  good  as 
any  in  Salt  Lake  City,  I  believe.  They 
are  building  another  one  at  Wellsville. 
Then,  we  have  not  sacrificed  anything  in 
that  direction,  have  we?  And  when  you 
talk  about  forsaking  father  and  moth- 
er, sister    and  brother  for  the  Gospel's 
sake,  how  much  of  a  sacrifice  have  we 
made?    What    did  Jesus  say  to  His 
disciples  when  they  asked,  "Behold,  we 
have  forsaken  all,  and  followed  thee; 
what  shall  we  have  therefore?"  He 
said  unto  them,  "Every  one  that  hath 
forsaken  houses,  or  brethren,  or  sis- 
ters, or  father,  or  mother,  or  wife,  or 
children,  or  lands,  for  my  name's  sake, 
shall  receive  an  hundred  fold,  and  shall 
inherit  everlasting  life."     Maybe  you 
forsook  your  father  and  mother;  may- 
be they  turned  their  backs  upon  you. 
What  if  they  did?    You  have  come  to 
this  land  and  found  fathers  and  moth- 
ers, brothers  and  sisters,  just  as  the 
Son  of  God  said  to  His  disciples.  One 
came  unto  him  and  said,  "Behold,  thy 
mother  and  thy  brethren  stand  with- 
out, desiring  to  speak  with  thee;"  ana 
He  asked,  "Who  is  my  mother?  and 
who  are  my  brethren?"   Answering  the 
question  himself,  He  pointed    to  His 
disciples  and  said,  '"Behold  my  mother 
and  my  brethren!    For  whosoever  shall 
do  the  will  of  My  Father  which  is  in 
heaven,  the  same  is  my  brother,  and 
sister,   and  mother."     And  have  you 
not  found  it  thus?    What  else  can  we 
say?  Why  this:  that'  the  man  who  for- 
sakes his  father  and  mother  for  the 
Gospel's  sake  has  accepted  something 
in  the  Gospel  that  will  bring  his  father 
and  mother,  his  sister  and  brother  to 
him,  and  they  will  fulfill  the  words  of 


the  Prophet    Obadiah    that  "saviors 
shall  come  up  on  mount  Zion." 

I  might  say  more  in  this  line  if  there 
were  time,  but  let  me  say  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  that  we  ought  not  to 
talk  about  sacrificing  for  the 
Gospel's  sake.  We  ought  not  to 
forget  the  obligations  we  are 
under  to  God  for  the  great  blessings 
that  He  has  bestowed  upon  us.  We 
ought  not  to  be  unmindful  of  the  fact 
that  it  is  through  the  Gospel  that  all 
these  blessings  have  come  unto  us. 
Now,  it  does  not  matter  what  the  world 
do — whether  they  are  friendly  to  us  or 
not — so  far  as  the  work  of  God  is  con- 
cerned. It  matters  to  them  materially,, 
however,  whether  they  treat  the  work 
of  God  properly  or  not.  If  they  do  not. 
treat  it  right,  if  they  persecute  the  peo- 
ple of  God,  woe  unto  them!  for  thus 
saith  the  Lord,  I  will  fight  against 
those  who  fight  against  Zion.  That  is 
the  word  of  the  Lord  to  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth.  But  whether  they  op- 
pose it  or  not.the  work  of  God  is  onward 
and  upward,  and  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  are  spreading  abroad  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth.  I  am  happy  to 
say  that  our  Elders  bring  good  reports, 
as  a  rule.  The  more  they  put  their 
trust  in  God  and  travel  without  money 
and  without  price,  the  better  report 
they  bring,  the  stronger  testimonies 
they  come  back  with  in  regard  to  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  power 
connected  with  it. 

I  rejoice  in  this  work,  and  in  the 
opportunity  of  mingling  my  testimony 
with  that  of  my  brethren.  I  know  that 
this  is  the  work  of  God.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God. 
I  know  that  the  men  who  have  succeed- 
ed him  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  men  of 
God,  and  that  our  President  today  is 
a  man  of  God,  a  man  of  righteousness 
and  justice,  a  man  of  example  in  the 
Gospel  that  is  worthy  of  our  following 
in  every  sense  of  the  word.  I  say  to 
the  brethren  and  sisters,  do  not  only 
sustain  the  presidency  of  the  Church, 
but  also  sustain  your  Bishops,  sustain 
your  stake  presidents,  sustain  your 
ward  teachers,  and  sustain  the  hum- 


56 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


blest  in  the  holy  Priesthood  whom  God 
has  appointed  unto  the  work  of  the 
ministry  In  the  fourth  chapter  of 
Ephesians  Paul  names  the  purpose  of 
apostles,  prophets,  etc.  He  said  they 
were  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for 
the  perfecting  of  the  Saints,  and  for 
the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ,  till 
we  all  come  to  a  unity  of  the  faith. 
But  he  mentions  another  purpose— a 
very  distinct  purpose,  and  I  thought,  in 
listening  to  the  remarks  of  Elder  Tay- 
lor, that  it  was  a  very  important  pur- 
pose among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
purpose  is,  "that  we  henceforth  be  no 
more  children, tossed  to  and  fro, and  car- 
ried about  with  every  wind  of  doctrine, 
by  the  sleight  of  men,  and  cunning 
craftiness,  whereby  they  lie  in  wait  to 
deceive."  My  brethren  and  sisters,  if 
you  will  bear  in  mind  that  purpose, 
and  follow  the  ordained  ministry  that 
God  has  established  in  your  midst,  you 
will  not  go  astray.  Follow  their  coun- 
sel, pay  yo.ur  tithes  and  offerings,  and 
sustain  the  work  of  God  temporally  and 
spiritually,  and  I  am  willing  to  promise 
you,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  that  you 
will  not  be  led  astray  by  the  winds  of 
doctrine  that  are  going  forth  in  the 
land.  If  you  do  not  do  this,  you  will 
be  led  away.  We  want  men  and  wo- 
men who  accept  the  Gospel  in  its  ful- 
ness; good,  substantial  Latter-day 
Saints;  not  those  who,  like  the  world, 
make  a  hobby  of  one  principle  and 
neglect  all  others,  but  Latter-day 
Saints  who,  if  they  go  on  missions  and- 
are  greatly  blessed  by  the  outpouring 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  are  willing  on  their 
return  to  be  ward  teachers,  or  Sunday 
school  teachers,  or  Deacons  in  the 
house  of  the  Lord,  and  not  expect  to 
occupy  all  their  time  in  standing  be- 
fore the  people  and  preaching  big  ser- 
mons. Some  of  the  best  Latter-day 
Saints  we  have  do  not  say  much,  but 
they  do  a  great  deal.  The  thing  for  us 
to  do  is  to  go  to  work,  and  we  need 
not  talk  about  it  either.  When  we 
pay  our  tithing,  we  need  not  sound  a 
trumpet  before  us.  When  we  pay  our 
fast  offerings  we  need  not  publish  it 
in  the  papers.  But  do  our  duty,  honor 
God  and  keep  His  commandments,  and 


say  nothing  about  it.  The  Lord  will 
see  us,  and  He  will  bless  us.  The  Son 
of  God  pointed  out  the  hypocrisy  of  the 
world  in  this  direction.  He  said,  "They 
love  to  pray  standing  in  the  synagogues 
and  on  the  corners  of  the  streets, 
that  they  may  be  seen  of  men. 
Verily  I  say  unto  you.  They  have  their 
reward.  But  thou,  when  thou  prayest, 
enter  into  they  closet,  and  when  thou 
hast  shut  thy  door,  pray  to  thy  Father 
which  is  in  secret,  and  they  Father 
which  seeth  in  secret  shall  reward  thee 
openly."  Remember  that,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  seek  God  in  secret 
prayer.  And  when  I  say  this  to  you,  I 
say  it  to  myself  also. 

Before  I  close,  I  wrant  to  ask  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  to  sustain  the  religion 
classes  of  this  Church.  I  say  that  we 
need  them.  There  is  no  family  in  the 
Church  so  perfect  in  its  family  gov- 
ernment, no  man  and  no  woman  has 
such  unbounded  influence  over  their 
families,  but  what  these  auxiliary  insti- 
tutions will  be  of  some  benefit  unto 
them. 

I  want  to  say  another  thing.  I  said  it 
yesterday  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and 
the  Lord  revealed  it  to  me  while  I  was 
upon  my  feet.  If  any  of  you  have  any 
grievances  with  your  brethren  or  your 
sisters;  if  any  of  you  stand  adverse  to 
the  authorities  of  your  Ward  or  Stake, 
or  have  anything  against  them,  I  ask 
you  not  to  talk  about  it  before  your 
children.  If  you  do,  you  will  poison 
the  minds  of  your  children  against  the 
work  of  God,  and  the  day  will  come 
when  you  will  wish  that  you  could  draw 
it  back.  You  will  have  cause  to  be  sor- 
ry for  their  condition,  and  you  will  have 
a  consciousness  that  you  have  helped  to 
poison  their  minds  against  the  servants 
of  God  and  against  the  principles  of  di- 
vine truth.  Remember  this.  It  is  the 
simple  things  that  will  secure  our  safe- 
ty. It  is  the  little  foxes  that  spoil  the 
vines,  Solomon  and  Bishop  Reuben  Mil- 
ler used  to  say.  It  is  the  performance 
of  the  little  duties  that  will  establish  us 
in  the  work  of  God. 

God  bless  you, my  brethren  and  sisters. 
May  you  return  to  your  homes  renewed 
in  your  determination  to  serve  God. 
Sustain  the  religion  class  work,  and  all 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


57 


the  institutions  that  the  Lord  has  es- 
tablished in  the  work  of  God,  and  God 
Himself  will  sustain  you  by  His  power 
in  time  and  in  all  eternity.  Amen. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

The  sin  of  idleness— Arduous  duties  of  the  Firs 
Presidency,  the  Tweive,  Seven  Presidents  or 
Seventies,  Presiding  Bishopric  and  other  quo- 
ums  of  the  Priesthood. 

Brethren  and.  sisters,  I  trust  that  I 
shall  be  able  to  make  you  hear.  I 
have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  the  spirit 
and  teachings  of  this  conference.  We 
have  had  a  rich  outpouring  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  and  we  are  indeed  a  blessed 
people. 

While  sitting  here,  the  thought  oc- 
curred to  me  that  the  system  and  or- 
der of  the  Priesthood  in  this  Church 
is  so  perfect,  there  is  no  need  for  any 
of  us  to  waste  time;  and  it  would  be  a 
shame  for  a  man  in  this  Church,  hold- 
ing any  portion  of  the  holy  Priesthood, 
to  say  he  had  nothing  to  do.  It  is 
a  mistaken  idea  for  any  man  to  enter- 
tain, for  there  is  plenty  to  do.  I  re- 
member, reading  in  one  of  the  revela- 
tions, a  passage  that  bears  upon  this 
point.  You  will  find  it  in  Section  107 
of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  these  are  the  closing  words  of  the 
revelation: 

"Wherefore  now  let  every  man  learn 
his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in 
which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be 
counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that 
learns  not  his  duty  and  shows  himself 
not  approved,  shall  not  be  counted  wor- 
thy to  stand." 

In  another  revelation — Section  68 — 
these  words  occur: 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  also, 
shall  remember  their  labors,  inasmuch 
as  they  are  appointed  to  labor,  in  all 
faithfulness;  for  the  idler  shall  be  had 
in  remembrance  before  the  Lord." 

Again,  in  Section  75: 

"Let  every  man  be  diligent  in  all 
things.  And  the  idler  shall  not  have 
place  in  the  Church,  except  he  repents 
and  mends  his  ways." 

From  these  passages,  we  can  see  that 
idleness  is  a  positive  sin,  and  that  those 
who  indulge  in  this  spirit,  to  the  neg- 


lect of  their-  duties,  shall  be  found  un- 
worthy of  fellowship  in  the  Church. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  if  I  can  have 
the  freedom  of  the  Spirit,  I  would  like 
to  make  a  brief  report  concerning  some 
of  the  general  authorities  of  the 
Church.  I  think  the  Saints  are  justi- 
fied in  looking  to  the  general  authori- 
ties for  an  example.  If  the  head  is  sick, 
the  body  will  also  be  sick;  but  if  the 
head  is  wideawake,  the  body  will  be 
full  of  light.  This  is  true  of  the 
Church  in  all  ages  of  the  world. 

First,  I  would  like  to  say  a  word 
about  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  We  have  them  with  us  today. 
They  are  in  good  health  and  form.  We 
have  heard  their  voices.  I  think  I  can 
truthfully  say  there  are  no  three  men 
in  the  Church  who  are  busier,  more  in- 
dustrious or  whose  time  is  more  occu- 
pied, than  the  Presidency.  There  is  a 
great  weight  of  responsibility  resting 
upon  them.  They  are  called  to  stand 
at  the  head  of  the  Church,  and  direct 
matters  pertaining  to  fifty-one  stakes 
of  Zion  and  fourteen  missions.  These 
brethren  have  to  consider  matters  of 
moment  that  are  submitted  to  them 
from  the  stakes  of  Zion.  Many  writ- 
ten communications  of  great  import- 
ance are  received  by  them,  which  re- 
quire the  most  thoughtful  considera- 
tion. They  are  in  session  almost  daily, 
giving  their  attention  to  these  matters. 
In  addition  to  the  very  large  correspon- 
dence which  they  have  to  answer,  many 
of  the  officers  of  the  stakes  come  in 
person  and  seek  interviews  with  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church.  They  must 
be  seen;  it  is  their  right  to  be  seen; 
they  come  for  counsel  on  matters  of 
moment  and  interest  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  Furthermore,  many  strangers 
call  at  the  president's  office,  anxious  to 
meet  the  president  and  his  counselors, 
and  to  shake  hands  with  them.  The 
reputation  of  this  people  has  gone 
abroad  to  the  world,  and  many  emi- 
nent people,  in  passing  through,  stop  in 
Zion,  being  anxious  to  see  those  who 
preside  over  this  peculiar  people.  And 
let  me  say  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters, 
the  stranger  within  our  gates  who  de- 
sires an  interview  is  never  denied.  The 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Presidency  are  very  happy  to  see  them, 
talk  with  them,  and  bear  testimony  to 
them.  In  addition  to  these  arduous  and 
strenuous  labors,  the  President 
of  the  Church  presides  over 
some  very  important  auxiliary 
organizations.  He  is  the  head  of  the 
great  Sunday  school  organization  in 
the  Church.  We  had  some  evidence  of 
its  magnitude  last  night,  when  this 
Tabernacle  was  crowded,  every  seat 
occupied  and  people  standing  up,  all 
interested  in  the  Sunday  scnools.  He 
is  also  general  superintendent  of  the 
Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociations, which  embrace  about  28,000 
young  men  of  Israel — a  whole  army; 
and  they  acknowledge  him  as  their  spe- 
cial leader,  counselor  and  director.  He 
is  also  editor  of  the  "Improvement 
Era")  and  the  "Juvenile  Instructor."  In 
addition  to  all  this,  the  President  has 
been  called— and  very  fittingly— to 
stand  at  the  head  of  some1  of  the  great 
temporal  institutions  of  Zion.  Does  it 
not  seem  right  to  you  that  he  has  been 
called  to  represent  the  great  co-oper- 
ative movement  that  was  instituted  by 
President  Brigham  Young,  and  that 
has  accomplished  so  much  good  for 
Zion?  I  refer  now  to  Z.  C.  M.  I.  We 
all  know  about  this  institution,  and 
what  it  has  done  for  the  people.  To 
use  a  common  expression,  it  has  "set 
the  pace"  in  business.  It  has  a  won- 
derful influence  in  the  business  affairs 
of  this  and  other  states,  in  adjusting 
prices,  and  conducting  business  in  a 
right  and  proper  manner.  If  you  do 
not  always  trade  there,  brethren  and 
sisters,  you  want  to  remember  this: 
when  you  go  to  other  places  and  get 
low  prices,  Z.  C.  M.  h  has  helped  to 
establish  those  prices,  by  its  powerful 
influence.  The  President  has  also  been 
called  to  stand  at  the  head  of  two  or 
three  sugar  factories,  which  are  great 
and  prosperous  industries,  benefitting 
the  people  of  Zion.  Therefore,  he  is  not 
only  our  spiritual  leader,  but  also  our 
temporal  leader  in  some  important  di- 
rections. In  our  Church  the  spiritual 
and  temporal,  it  may  be  said,  go  hand 
in  hand,  the  dividing  line  cannot  be 
drawn.  In  addition  to  all  these  duties, 
which  I  have  but  briefly  mentioned,  the 


Presidency  of  the  Church  often  go  in- 
to the  different  Stakes  of  Zion  to  visit 
among  the  people.  I  cannot  under- 
stand how  they  get  the  time  to  do  it. 
First,  you  hear  of  the  Presidency  be- 
ing down  in  Arizona,  or  in  Mexico; 
and  next  you  hear  of  them  in  Canada, 
or  in  the  Big  Horn  country,  or  in  Ore- 
gon. So  far  as  I  understant,  they  are 
very  happy  indeed  to  go  and  mingle 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  lift 
their  voices  in  counsel  or  warning.  I 
have  sometimes  wondered  if  the  Pre- 
sidency realize,  to  the  fullest  extent, 
the  amount  of  good  accomplished 
through  their  visits  to  the  Stakes  of 
Zion.  The  Apostles  who  follow  them 
understand  it.  I  reiterate  my  former 
statement,  that  there  are  no  three  men 
in  all  Israel  who  are  busier  and  more 
active  than  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  I  rejoice  in  the  truth  of  this 
testimony. 

Now  we  come  to  consider  the  labors 
of  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 
Let  me  speak  briefly  in.  relation  to  the 
quorum,  which  stands  next  to  the  Pres- 
idency. The  quorum  of  tne  Twelve 
Apostles  meets  regularly  once  a  week 
with  the  Presidency.  They  meet  as  a 
quorum  every  quarter,  for  three  days. 
To  the  members  of  the  quorum,  these 
meetings  are  of  the  very  highest  im- 
portance. The  brethren  come  together 
in  order  to  pray,  bear  testimony  and 
take  into  consideration  such  matters 
as  may  be  brought  before  them.  Wher- 
ever duty  calls,  the  Twelve  must  go. 
They  are  willing  and  anxious  to  visit 
the  Saints  in  Stake  conferences,  or  to  go 
into  the  world.  They  hold  themselves 
in  readiness  to  respond  at  a  moment's 
notice  to  the  calls  of  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church.  When  they  return  from 
such  visits,  they  must  render  an  ac- 
count of  their  stewardship.  The  labors 
of  each  week  mwst  be  reported  to  the 
Presidency.  In  this  way  the  Presiden- 
cy of  the  Church  are  made  familiar 
with  conditions  in  Zion.  Let  me  say, 
there  is  not  a  stake  in  all  Zion 
that  escapes  notice.  There  is  not  a 
president  of  a  Stake  nor  a  counselor 
and,  in  a  general  way,  I  may  say, 
there  is  not  a  Bishop  but  who 
comes    under     the     notice     of  the 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


Presidency  of  the  Church,  through  these 
reports.  We  want  the  brethren  in  the 
various  stakes  to  understand  that  their 
labors  are  appreciated,  and  that  their 
faithfulness  is  known.  And  when  things 
are  all  right,  oh  how  grand  and  beauti- 
ful it  is!  How  pleased  the  Twelve  arc 
to  report  favorable  conditions  in  the 
stakes  of  Zion!  When  anything  is 
wrong,  when  there  is  a  lack  of  faith- 
fulness upon  the  part  of  any  holding 
the  Priesthood  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  it 
is  known;  and  known  only  to  be  cor- 
rected. We  would  like  the  people  to  un- 
derstand that  the  Priesthood  is  mind- 
ful of  them.  We  know  your  faithful- 
ness; and  where  there  is  indifference, 
we  are  aware  of  it.  Although  existing 
evils  may  not  be  corrected  at  once,  let 
me  say  to  you  that  generally  they  are 
known  and  discussed  in  the  councils  of 
the  Holy  Priesthood.  The  Twelve  es- 
teem it  as  binding  upon  them,  when  in 
the  city,  to  be  present  at  their  meet- 
ings. They  regard  it  as  one  of  their 
highest  duties;  they  feel  they  must  be 
there,  unless  perchance  there  is  sick- 
ness or  death  in  the  family,  or  they 
are  sent  elsewhere  by  the  Presidency. 
That  is  how  they  feel  in  relation  to 
their  quorum  meetings.  That  is  how 
we  want  the  brethren  of  the  Priesthood 
throughout  the  Church  to  feel,  in  rela- 
tion to  their  respective  quorum  meet- 
ings. We  rejoice  in  our  labors.  I  testi- 
fy that  there  is  a  spirit  of  oneness,  and 
of  love,  in  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve, 
and  existing  also  between  them  and  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  such  as  you 
will  hardly  find  among  any  other  men 
upon  earth.  A  love  for  one  another 
that  almost  exceeds  the  love  of  a  man 
for  his  wife.  It  is  the  love  of  the 
Priesthood — the  love  of  God. 

Next  to  the  Twelve  Apostles  are  the 
First  Seven  Presidents  of  the  Seventies. 
Oh,  what  a  heavy  weight  of  responsi- 
bility rests  upon  these  seven  men!  They 
are  called  to  preside  over  143  quorums 
of  Seventy — ten  thousand  men!  Suppose 
they  were  lined  up  in  the  Tabernacle 
yard  in  one  body,  what  an  army  of  the 
Lord  it  would  be!  These  seven  presi- 
dents are  called  to  look  after  the  inter- 
ests of  this  great  body  of  Seventies, 
to  counsel,  to  direct,  to  warn  them 


against  the  spirit  of  neglect  and  indif- 
ference, or  commend  them  for  their 
good  works.  Have  they  any  time  fors 
idleness?  Have  they  any  time  to 
waste?  No.  indeed!  These  men  meet 
together  regularly  once  a  week,  that 
they  may  counsel  concerning  the  affairs 
of  the  quorums  of  Seventy,  which  are 
scattered  throughout  the  Church,  from 
Canada  in  the  north  to  MexicfO  in  the 
south.  Then,  they  are  constantly  vis- 
iting the  quorums,  organizing  and  re- 
organizing. They  have  some  serious 
difficulties  to  meet  in  this  work,  be- 
cause, when,  in  some  instances,  they 
get  a  right  good  man  to  fill  an  office 
and  do  the  work,  he  is  called  to  an- 
other position  in  the  Church,  and  then 
they  must  select  some  other  man  in 
the  quorum  to  meet  the  requirements. 
It  needs  constant  watchfulness  upon 
their  part  to  keep  the  members  active 
in  their  quorum  duties.  In  addition  to 
this,  the  seven  presidents  of  Seventies 
labor  under  the  direction  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  and  hold  themselves  in  con- 
stant readiness  to  respond  to  every  call. 
They  are  always  on  hand;  we  know 
where  to  find  them.  They  go  with  the 
Twelve  into  the  stakes  of  Zion,  or 
wherever  duty  calls,  in  a  spirit  of 
cheerfulness  and  willingness.  These 
brethren  are  faithful  to  their  duty. 

Then,  we  have  the  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric of  the  Church.  They  are  called  to 
a  great  and  heavy  responsibility.  Three 
men  who  look  after  the  temporal  inter- 
ests of  Zion  and  supervise  the  tithmg 
donated  by  the  people.  The  principle  of 
tithing  is  an  important  one.  One  of  the 
speakers  said  today,  if  the  members  in 
some  of  the  other  Christian  denomina- 
tions pay  tithing,  who  will  take  care 
of  it?  Where  is  the  prophet  to  direct 
how  the  tithing  shall  be  used  and  han- 
dled for  the  Lord?  It  belongs  to  the 
Lord,  and  not  to  the  people;  it  must  go 
into  the  storehouse  of  the  Lord,  and 
where  is  the  servant  of  God  authorized 
to  direct  its  proper  use?  Here  are 
the  Bishopric  called  to  this  sa- 
cred duty,  under  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church,  and  who  are  held 
to  strict  accountability  for  their 
stewardship.  As  the  600,  and  more, 
Bishops  of  the  Church  must  report  to 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


them,  so  they  must  report  to  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church.  It  is  a  heavy  duty 
that  rests  upon  these  brethren,  and 
they  are  in  session— I  was  going  to  say 
day  and  night;  but  every  day  they  con- 
sult together,  and  many  important 
questions  come  up  before  them.  They 
have  many  things  to  look  after,  which 
necessitates  their  going  into  the  differ- 
ent stakes  and  correcting  errors  that 
may  arise.  I  bear  testimony  that  never 
in  the  history  of  the  Church,  so  far  as  I 
know,  has  the  tithing  of  the  people 
been  so  carefully  looked  after  and  ac- 
counted for,  cent  fo.r  cent,  as  it  is  to- 
day. The  Latter-day  Saints  need  have 
no  anxiety  upon  this  point.  The  tithing 
is  taken  care  of  scrupulously,  under  the 
direction  of  the  First  Presidency,  and 
this  according  to  the  revelation  and 
commandment.  It  entails  great  anxiety 
and  labor  upon  these  three  men,  and 
they  cannot  escape  it,  in  fact,  they 
cheerfully  sustain  the  responsibility. 
Through  the  blessing  of  the  Lord,  they 
successfully  perform  this  duty.  If  it 
were  not  for  His  blessing,  they  could 
not  bear  up  under  the  pressure. 

Some  people  have  said  to  me,  "Oh, 
what  a  lovely  time  you  Apostles  have! 
You  are  traveling  here  and  there,  and 
enjoy  yourselves  and  have  a  delightful 
time."  Yes,  yes,  a  very  delightful 
time.  (?)  If  the  Apostles  have  the  spirit 
of  their  calling  resting  upon  them,  it 
is  delightful,  it  is  happiness  and  joy  to 
them;  but  if  the  spirit  of  the  Apostle- 
ship  did  not  rest  upon  them,  it  would 
be  a  very  strenuous  duty.  The  Apostles 
are  away  from  their  families  about 
two-thirds  of  the  time,  and  are  seldom 
at  home  on  the  Sabbath  day.  Others 
can  go  to  the  house  of  worship  with 
wives  and  children,  and  have  the  chil- 
dren under  their  supervision;  it  is  not 
so  with  the  Apostles,  they  are  usually 
absent  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  With 
them  it  is  a  constant  change — change 
of  diet,  change  of  lodging,  change  of 
surroundings;  which  would  make  it  a 
very  disagreeable  vnd  strenuous  life 
to  lead,  were  it  not  for  the  sustaining 
power  of  the  spirit  of  their  calling.  So 
it  is  with  the  Seven  Presidents  of 
Seventies;  and  so,  I  apprehend,  it  is 
with  the  Bishopric.    Doubtless  the  pre- 


siding Bishopric  have  a  great  deal  of 
joy  and  satisfaction  in  their  labors, 
because  the  spirit  and  power  of  the 
Bishopric  is  upon  *hem;  but  if  they 
were  without  that  spirit,  their  posi- 
tion would  be  very  undesirable.  And  so 
it  is  with  all  the  Bishops,  and  all  the 
presiding  authorities. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  say  that  the 
presidents  of  stakes  are  desired  to  meet 
legularly  every  week,  to  counsel,  and 
devise  plans  for  the  benefit  of  those  over 
whom  they  preside.  "We  expect  them 
to  hold  these  weekly  meetings  without 
fail,  and  to  give  attention  to  the  pur- 
poses of  them.  We  also  desire  the 
Bishops  of  wards  and  their  counselors 
to  meet  regularly  once  a  week,  with 
the  same  faithfulness  as  is  shown  by 
the  presiding  authorities.  No  Bishopric 
should  let  a  week  pass  without  coming 
together,  to  enquire  into  the  condi- 
tions that  prevail  in  the  ward,  and  to 
correct  any  evils  that  may  exist.  These 
meetings  also  bring  them  into  greater 
harmony,  and  they  become  better  ac- 
quainted with  one  another.  It  is  neces- 
sary that  the  Bishop  and  his  counselors 
should  understand  each  other  thorough- 
ly, that  they  may  labor  unitedly  for 
the  benefit  and  blessing  of  their  people. 
So  with  the  High  Council;  and  so  with 
the  presidency  of  quorums.  We  want 
the  leaders  to  be  alive  and  wideawake, 
and  faithful  to  duty  in  all  things. 

May  God  bless  you  and  all  Israel; 
and,  above  all  things,  may  He  bless 
the  priesthood,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT.  ^ 

Relating  to  colonizat  ion  -  Re11glou9  education  com- 
mended— A  plea  for  righteousness — Training  of 
children — Importance  of  scholastic  education. 

I  am  very  thankful,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  for  the  privilege  I  have  had  of 
listening  to  the  remarks  that  have  been 
made  during  this  conference.  I  have 
enjoyed  the  testimonies  that  have  been 
borne,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  that  has 
been  present.  I  am  thankful  for  the 
prayers  that  have  been  offered.  Each 
prayer  in  itself  has  been  a  sermon.  I 
am  thankful  for  the  statements  of  prin- 
ciples that  have  been  given  during  this 
conference,  and  that  I  am  in  harmony 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


61 


with  the  same.  I  am  thankful  that  the 
world  is  growing  in  knowledge  pertain- 
ing to  some  of  the  revelations  that  God 
has  given  His  children.  I  am  thank- 
ful that  the  Presbyterian  ministers 
have  seen  the  error  of  their  position  in 
advocating  the  detestable  doctrine  of 
infant  damnation,  and  have  announced 
to  the  world  that  they  no  more  will 
preach  that  false  theory.  I  am  thank- 
ful that  some  of  the  Methodist  minis- 
ters have  seen  the  light,  and  are  advo- 
cating the  observance  of  the  law  of 
tithing.  I  am  thankful  that  General 
Booth-Tucker,  of  the  Salvation  Army, 
is  preaching  to  the  world  the  great 
principle  of  colonization.  At  the  Na- 
tional Irrigation  Congress,  held  recently 
at  Ogden,  Utah,  the  gentleman  named 
read  a  paper  on  the  subject  that  was 
indeed  praiseworthy.  I  listened  with 
rapt  attention  to  every  idea  he  ex- 
pressed upon  that  important  theme. 
The  mode  of  colonization  adopted  by 
the  Salvation  Army,  compared  with 
that  established  and  followed  by  th? 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  shows  to  me,  and  must  ulti- 
mately prove  to  the  world,  that  there  is 
always  a.  difference  between  the  ways 
of  God  and  the  ways  of  man.  The 
general  told  us  that  the  Salvation 
Army  people  believe  in  colonization, 
and  that  the  body  of  religious  people  he 
represented  were  spending  money,  time, 
and  influence  in  gathering  their 
people  from  this  and  other  countries, 
placing  them  upon  farms,  and  making 
homes  for  them.  But  they  are  Idoing 
it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  by  the  help 
of  the  great  money  powers  of  the  world. 
They  are  borrowing  money  by  the  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  dollars,  and  mak- 
ing the  land  on  which  they  colonize 
their  people,  together  with  the  labor 
of  the  colonists,  become  security  for 
the  money  advanced.  With  them  it  is 
simply  a  business  proposition.  I  have 
thought  to  myself,  however,  what 
would  they  do  if  they  were  in  the  same 
condition  as  the  Latter-day  Saints  were 
when  the  great  principle  of  gathering 
and  colonizing  was  revealed  and  estab- 
lished, with  no  friends  anywhere  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth,  no  credit  with  the 
money  powers  of  the  world,  and  hard- 


ly a  dollar  to  buy  lands  for  the  people 
to  go  to.  v  I  thought  of  the  perpetual 
emigration  fund  that  was  started  with 
a  small  sum  of  money,  through  which  a 
few  souls  here  and  there  were  brought 
to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains;  and, 
as  soon  as  God  blessed  them  with  suffi- 
cient means,  they  paid  it  back  to  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  who  con- 
trolled that  fund,  and  it  in  turn 
brought  others  here.  It  was  slower;  it 
was  a  great  deal  more  of  a  sacrifice 
and  required  a  great  deal  more  faith, 
but  it  brought  many  an  honest  soul 
here,  and  they  learned  what  coloniza- 
tion was  in  its  truest  sense.  They 
learned  also  what  gathering  meant,  and 
believed  the  revelations  that  God  had 
given  concerning  it;  and  they  learned 
through  hardships,  trials  and  troubles 
that  it  was  God's  will  they  should  gath- 
er, and  that  they  were  here  for  the 
purpose  of  living  their  religion  and 
serving  God  more  fully. 

I  am  thankful,  too,  that  many  of  the 
leading  men  in  great  institutions  of 
learning  in  the  United  States,  are  at 
the  present  time  deploring  the  lack  of 
church  training  shown  by  the  average 
student  attending  these  great1  universi- 
ties. Not  later  than  last  "Wednesday, 
September  30,  Chancellor  McCracken 
of  New  York  University,  in  his  address 
to  the  student  body,  made  the  following 
statement: 

"I  wish  we  could  require  from  every 
freshman  a  Sunday  school  diploma  that 
would  certify  that  he  kne.v  by  heart 
the  ten  commandments,  the  sermon  on 
the  mount,  a  church  catechism  of  some 
kind,  a  score  of  scripture  pslams  and 
best  classic  hymns.  This  university 
will  join  any  association  of  universi- 
ties and  colleges  that  will  demand  this 
as  an  entrance  requirement.  So  much 
as  in  us  lies,  we  will  make  the  college 
a  place  for  preserving  and  strengthen- 
ing reverence  for  things  divine." 

President  Brigham  Young,  when  es- 
tablishing the  Brigham  Young  Acad- 
emy at  Provo,  and  the  Brigham  Young 
College  at  Logan,  told  the  people,  and 
required  of  those  who  had  these  institu- 
tions in  charge,  that  nothing  should  be 
taught  therein,  not  even  the  simplest 
studies  in  arithmetic,  reading,  or  gram- 
mar, or  a  lesson  on  any  subject,  with- 
out the  Spirit  of  God  being  with  the 


«2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


teacher  and  in  his  instructions.  I  see 
in  Chancellor  McCracken's  remark  that 
they  are  beginning-  to  see  the  light,  and 
I  care  not  whether  the  world  gives  us 
credit  as  the  original  teachers  of  these 
truths  or  not.  The  honest  people  of  the 
world,  those  who  read  and  think,  those 
who  are  watching  the  events  of  life  as 
they  pass,  will  learn  ere  long  who  were 
the  first  teachers  of  these  great  truths; 
and  ascertain  what  Church  first  taught 
the  law  of  tithing  in  this  dispensation, 
and  that  it  was  the  Lord's  revealed  plan 
for  raising  means  to  carry  on  His 
work.  The  world  will  have  to  acknowl- 
edge sooner  or  later  that  it  was  no 
other  than  the  Latter-day  Saints;  that 
it  was  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  who 
received  that  revelation  in  this  dispen- 
sation. The  truths  revealed  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  we  are  pre- 
senting to  the  world,  will  demonstrate 
that  he  was  a  Prophet  of  God,  and 
not  a  man  with  false  ideas  or  vicious 
doctrines,  as  our  enemies  declare.  I  feel 
that  every  step  forward,  every  advance 
we  have  made  is  towards  the  goal  of 
success,  and  the  firm  etablishment  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  represent- 
ing the  little  stone  cut  out  of  the  moun- 
tain that  will  roll  forth  and  fill  the 
whole  earth. 

I  thought  yesterday,  when  President 
Lund  was  pleading  with  the  people, 
asking  them  to  keep  the  commandments 
of  God,  also  when  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith  referred  to  the  proper  training  of 
our  children,  calling  particular 
attention  of  the  people  to  these 
two  important  items,  how  natur- 
al it  sounds.  Have  not  these  admoni- 
tions been  given  by  every  inspired  man 
of  God  from  the  day  of  father  Adam 
down  to  the  present  time — men  whom 
God  recognized  as  His  mouthpieces  up- 
on earth?  I  thought  of  the  words  re- 
corded in  Deuteronomy,  chapter  11, 
commencing  at  the  13th  verse: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  ye 
shall  hearken  diligently  to  my  com- 
mandments which  I  command  you  this 
day,  to  love  the  Lord  your  God,  and  to 
serve  Him  with  all  your  heart  and  with 
all  your  soul, 

"That  I  will  give  you  the  rain  of  your 
land  in  due  season,  the  first  rain  and 
the  latter  rain,  that  thou  mayest  gather 


in  thy  corn,  and  thy  wine,  and  thine 
oil. 

"And  I  will  send  grass  in  thy  fields 
for  thy  cattle,  that  thou  mayest  eat 
and  be  full. 
"Take  heed  to  yourselves  that  your 
heart  be  not  deceived,  and  ye  turn 
aside,  and  serve  other  gods,  and  wor- 
ship them; 

"And  then  the  Lord's  wrath  will  be 
kindled  against  you,  and  he  shut  up  the 
heavens,  that  there  be  no  rain,  and  that 
the  land  yield  not  her  fruit;  and  lest 
ye  perish  quickly  from  off  the  good 
land  which  the  Lord  giveth  you. 

"Therefore  shall  ye  lay  up  these  my 
words  in  your  heart  and  in  your  soul, 
and  bind  them  for  a  sign  upon  your 
hand,  that  they  may  be  as  fjontlets 
between  your  eyes. 

"And  ye  shall  teach  them  unto  your 
children,  speaking  of  them  when  thou 
sittest  in  thine  house,  and  when  thou 
walkest  by  the  way,  when  thou  liest 
down  and  when  thou  risest  up. 

"And  thou  shalt  write  them  upon  the 
door  posts  of  thine  house,  and  upon  thy 
gates. 

"That  your  days  may  be  multiplied, 
and  the  days  of  your  children  in  the 
land  which  the  Lord  sware  unto  your 
fathers  to  give  them,  as  the  days  of 
heaven  upon  the  earth." 

Away  back  in  the  beginning  of  the 
history  of  this  world  we  find  these 
teachings,  and  they  are  repeated  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  call  to  mind  a 
revelation  given  through  Joseph  Smith 
the  Prophet  teaching  the  same  subject. 
It  is  in  section  68: 

"And,  again,  inasmuch  as  parents 
have  children  in  Zion  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach 
them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of 
repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  son  of 
the  living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands  when  eight  years  old,  the 
sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents; 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
Stakes  which  are  organized; 

"And  their  children  shall  be  baptized 
for  the  remission  of  their  sins  when 
eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying 
on  of  hands, 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their  chil- 
dren to  pray  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall  al- 
so observe  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it 
holy. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall 
also  remember  their  labors  inasmuch 
as  they  are  appointed  to  labor,  in  all 
faithfulness;  for  the  idler  shall  be  had 
in  remembrance  before  the  Lord." 

I  believe  every  word  of  this  revela- 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


63 


tion,  and  I  believe  that  one  of  the  most 
important  things  that  rests  upon  every 
Latter-day  Saint,  father  and  mother, 
is  the  training  of  their  children,  teach- 
ing them  the  laws  and  commandments 
of  God.  Do  we  teach  our  children  to 
pray?  If  there  is  a  home  in  all  Zion; 
if  there  is  a  father  or  mother  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  who  do  not  teach  their  chil- 
dren to  pray  they  will  live  to  see  the 
day  when  they  will  repent  of  that  neg- 
lect. I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that 
God  revealed  those  words  to  the  proph- 
et Joseph  Smith,  and  thaft  parent^ 
should  follow  them  strictly. 

I  believe  it  was  two  years  ago  that  El- 
der A.O.Woodruff  in  conference  referred 
to  the  duty  of  praying  in  the  family.not 
only  praying,but  before  prayers, reading 
some  part  of  the  scriptures,  and  advised 
all  to  do  so.  I  accepted  that  advice. 
We  should  designate  a  certain  time, 
just  before  supper,  or  breakfast,  or 
just  after  as  the  case  may  be,  to  get 
all  the  family  together,  and  then  take 
10  or  15  minutes  for  the  purpose  of 
reading  to  them  the  word  of  God,  and 
offering  devotion  to  Him.  I  promise 
the  father  and  mother  who  adopt  this 
as  a  family  rule  that  they  will  be 
blessed  in  so  doing.  Their  children  will 
bless  them  in  years  to  come,  and  they 
will  feel  blessed  in  doing  it  as  long  as 
they  live.  I  have  heard  others  say  they 
have  adopted  this  plan  for  family  devo- 
tion in  their  homes,  and  through  it  they 
have  become  better  acquainted  with 
the  scriputures:  that  they  have  been 
better  able  to  teach  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  than  ever  they  were 
before.  I  earnestly  ask  every  Latter- 
day  Saint  family  to  adopt  this  plan.  I 
see  in  the  audience  Brother  E.  J.  Wood 
of  Cardston,  Canada.  I  stopped  at  his 
home  on  a  recent  visit  to  Canada.  Ev- 
ery morning  there  was  a  chapter  read 
from  the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
or  some  other  book  containing  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel;  a  hymn  was 
sung,  and  prayers  were  offered.  He 
took  his  turn  as  mouth,  his  wife  took 
her  turn;  his  wife's  sister  was  there, 
and  she  took  her  turn;  the  children 
took  their  turn,  and  the  spirit  of  pray- 
er and  peace  was  in  his  home,  as  it 


will  be  in  every  home  where  that  is 
done.  Not  only  that,  it  makes  people 
better,  and  has  an  influence  for  good 
on  all  who  visit  the  home.  In  my  home 
we  have  prayers  night  and  morning, 
and  my  children  pray  in  turn.  No  mat- 
ter who  comes  to  visit  us,  we  pray  as 
usual,  and  they  can  not  help  but  feel 
the  spirit  of  prayer.  I  have  had  in- 
dividuals who  are  strangers  to  this  peo- 
ple and  to  the  Gospel  we  believe  in, 
come  to  my  home,  and  they  have  heard 
my  children  ask  a  blessing  upon  the 
food;  they  have  seen  them  kneel  with 
the  family  and  heard  them  offer  their 
simple  but  earnest  prayers  to  God,  and 
I  tell  you  it  has  had  an  influence  upon 
them,  and  it  has  been  an  influence  for 
good.  Afterwards  I  have  heard  of  it, 
outside  of  the  state,  while  in  conversa- 
tion with  men  and  women  who 
said  that  the  person  who  visited 
me  reported  to  them  what  they  had 
seen  and  heard. 

This  is  one  way  of  living  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ,  and  teaching  it  to 
strangers.  Everything  we  do  in  this 
life  that  leads  people  to  understand  that 
we  love  Jesus,  that  we  love  His  Gospel, 
and  that  we  are  trying  to  serve  him 
and  keep  his  commandments,  is  preach- 
ing, by  action  at  least,  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  It  will  have  its  influence 
upon  every  soul.  The  fruits  of  the 
Gospel  should  be  shown  in  the  lives  of 
the  members  of  the  Church.  I  have 
heard  it  said  that  missionaries  have 
been  called,  set  apart,  and  gone  to  their 
fields  of  labor,  never  having  prayed  in 
public  or  in  the  family  circle.  Thank 
the  Lord  there  are  not  many  of  these, 
but  as  long  as  there  is  one  such  there 
is  one  too  many.  I  hope  and  trust  that 
no  father,  claiming  to  be  a  Latter-day 
Saint,  will  ever  raise  a  boy  or  girl  in 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  to  manhood 
or  womanhood  and  not  teach  them  how 
to  pray. 

Last  night,  Brother  Joseph  J.  Jack- 
son, superintendent  of  the  Alpine  Sun- 
day schools,  paid  a  tribute  to  the  re- 
sults of  teaching  in  our  Church  schools. 
He  said  the  Saints  in  that  stake  are 
favored  by  living  close  to  the  Brigham 
Young  Academy,  and  the  teachers  in 
their  Sunday  schools  were  nearly  all 


64 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


educated  in  that  grand  institution. 
They  had  received  special  training  that 
fitted  them  for  teachers,  and  had  also 
a  testimony  that  God  lives  and  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ;  consequently  the 
Sunday  schools  of  the  Alpine  stake  are 
in  a  flourishing  condition,  being  blessed 
with  such  teachers.  I  am  an  advocate 
of  church  school  education,  they  are 
doing  valuable  work  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  also  call  attention  to 
the  fact  that  the  district  schools  are 
doing  a  good  work  in  this  state;  and, 
fathers  and  mothers,  you  should  let 
your  younger  children  go  to  the  dis- 
trict schools.  Do  not  take  them  out 
when  they  reach  the  sixth  grade.  Let 
them  remain  long  enouerh  to  complete 
the  eighth  grade  in  the  district  school. 
Why  do  I  say  this?  Because,  if  you 
take  your  child  out  as  soon  as  it  reach- 
es the  sixth  grade,  in  years  to  come 
it  will  become  dissatisfied  with  the  lim- 
ited education  received.  There  are 
hundreds  of  young  men,  many  of  them 
married  and  too  old  to  attend  the  dis- 
trict schools,  who  decide  that  they  must 
have  a  better  education,  after  learning 
the  necessity  of  it,  and  they  are  now 
attending  our  Church  schools.  This 
would  not  have  been  necessary  if  they 
had  not  been  taken  from  school  so  soon. 
God  bless  them  for  the  energy  that 
they  display  in  this  regard.  Many  of 
them,  if  they  had  been  left  in  the  dis- 
trict school  a  couple  of  years  longer, 
would  have  completed  a  course  in  the 
two  higher  grades,  and,  more  than 
likely,  would  have  been  satisfied,  and 
received  education  enough  to  have  fit- 


ted them  for  the  occupation  they  had 
to  follow.  Therefore,  I  hope  and  trust 
that  the  fathers  and  mothers  will  see 
that  the  boys  and  girls  are  educated 
sufficiently.  The  world  can  not  de- 
plore the  lack  of  religious  training,  or 
devotion  to  religion,  any  more  than  the 
Latter-day  Saints  do.  We  have  been 
taught  the  need  of  it  from  the  first,  and 
the  benefits  have  been  shown  to  us  in 
our  Church  schools,  and  in  our  lives 
here  in  the  Rocky  Mountains. 

I  ask  the  blessings  of  God  upon  all 
the  people,  and  upon  His  Church.  ^  I 
am  proud  indeed  to  belong  to  the 
Church  that  has  all  of  the  principles 
in  it  that  Jesus  Christ  taught.  I  want 
to  emphasize  the  statement  made  here 
by  Brother  John  W.  Taylor  this  morn- 
ing, that  no  one  principle  will  ever  save 
a  soul  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  One 
srood  act  will  never  save  a  person,  but 
one  bad  act  may  be  the  means  of  his 
downfall  and  damnation.  We,  as  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  know  what  the  teach- 
ings of  Jesus  Christ  are.  We  know 
what  the  revelations  are  that  have  been 
given  to  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  all  of  the  prophets  of  God 
in  this  dispensation,  and  we  should  try 
to  honor  every  one  of  them.  In  order 
to  receive  the  exaltation  we  all  so 
much  desire,  I  know  we  must  obey 
them  all.  God  give  us  strength  to  do 
it,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang.  "We  thank  Thee, 
O  God  for  a  Prophet,"  and  benediction 
was  pronounced  bv  Elder  David  H. 
Cannon 


PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 


65- 


THIRD  DAY 


Tuesday,  Oct.  6,  10  a.  m. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  : 

Redeemer  of  Israel, 

Our  only  delight, 
On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call; 

Our  shadow  by  day, 

And  our  pillar  by  nignt, 
Our  King,  our  Deliverer,  our  all. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

O  ye  mountains  high, 
Where  the  clear  blue  sky. 

Arches  over  the  vales  of  tne  free, 
Where  the  pure  breezes  blow, 
And  the  clear  streamlets  flow, 

How  I've  longed  to  thy  bosom  to  flee. 

PRESIDENT  JORN  R.  WINDER. 

Processes  of  going  into  debt— How  to  keep  clear 
of  it. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  al- 
most lost  my  voice  through  a  cold,  and 
I  scarcely  feel  able  to  occupy  this  po- 
sition; but  I  do  desire  to  say  to  you 
that  I  heartily  endorse,  and  am  in  full 
accord  with,  the  remarks  made  by 
President  Smith  on  Sunday  morning. 
Many  things  werf  mentioned  that  I 
would  like  to  speak  of  if  I  were  able  to 
do  so,  but  one  in  particular,  I  think, 
is  important  for  the  Latter-day  Saints 
to  observe,  and  that  is  in  relation  to 
going  into  debt.  Evidences  come  be- 
fore us  frequently  that  many  of  our 
brethren  are  still  contracting  debts 
which  they  are  hardly  able  to  meet.  If 
you  ask  a  man  how  he  first  got  into 
debt,  sometimes  the  reply  will  be  after 
this  manner:  "Well,  I  had  a  piece  of 
land,  on  which  I  wanted  to  build  me  a 
house.  I  had  at  my  command  about 
$1,000,  but  I  wanted  a  house  that  would 
cost  at  least  $3,000.  A  $1,000  house  in 
these  days  is  not  sufficient  and  I  felt 
that  the  land  was  worth  $1,000,  and  I 
would  lay  out  $1,000  on  it,  and  then  I 
could  borrow  at  least  $1,000  more  and 
mortgage  the  place."    What  is  the  re- 


sult? The  man  had  his  land,  and  he 
had  $1,000.  He  borrows  $1,000  or  $1,500 
on  what  he  has,  and  places  the  whole 
under  a  mortgage.  He  perhaps  has  to 
pay  exorbitant  interest.  The  first  thing 
he  knows  his  circumstances  may 
change.  He  may  lose  his  situation,  or 
he  may  have  sickness,  and  his  pay 
stops;  but  the  interest  continues  on, 
and  by  and  by  he  finds  himself  unable 
to  meet  it.  His  obligation  becomes 
due,  his  property  is  foreclosed,  it  is 
probably  sold  at  a  discount,  and  he 
loses  his  home  and  all  he  had.  Now,  I 
know  some  in  our  community  today 
that  are  just  in  this  condition.  Hence 
I  want  to  sustain  what  President  Smith 
said,  and  to  warn  our  brethren,  especi- 
ally our  young  brethren,  not  to  go  in 
debt.  If  you  have  $1,000,  and  that  is 
all  you  do  have,  be  satisfied  and  content 
with  a  $1,000  house,  until  you  have  more 
means  to  enable  you  to  add  to  it  and 
avoid  paying  interest,  which,  It  is  said, 
never  sleeps;  it  is  always  going  on. 

The  report  made  here  by  Brother 
Pond  president  of  Bannock  stake, 
showed  how  easy  it  is  for  us  to  launct 
out  beyond  our  means.  He  said  that 
some  of  the  brethren  who  had  gone 
up  to  Snake  river  valley  would  take 
up  160  acres  of  land,  spend  means  on 
it  and  improve  it,  and  then  when  the 
payments  for  the  land  became  due 
they  could  not  meet  them.  In  this 
emergency  they  would  borrow,  and 
mortgage  the  land  with  all  they  had 
put  on  it  and  the  first  thing  they  knew 
the  note  became  due,  they  could  not 
meet  it,  and  they  were  sold  out.  It 
seems  to  me  that  it  would  be  far  more 
judicious  for  a  man  to  take  up  40  acres 
that  he  could  pay  for  than  to  take  up 
160  acres  that  he  could  not  pay  for.  Let 
him  cultivate  the  smaller  piece  care- 
fully, and  probably  he  would  find  it 
sufficient.  At  all  events,  he  would  be 
secure  against  obligations. 

I  would  say,  if  you  will  pardon  me 
for  doing  it,  that  from  the  day  I  came 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


into  the  valley  I  have  proposed  never 
to  go  in  debt.  I.  have  always  tried  to 
live  within  my  means.  A  person  who 
has  $100  a  month  salary  is  on  the  safe 
side  if  he  lives  on  $90  a  month;  but  if 
he  spends  $110  or  $120,  he  is  going 
down  hill  all  the  time,  and  this  is  too 
much  the  case  among  us  at  the  present 
time. 

There  are  other  things  that  come  to 
my  mind.  Sometimes  we  are  extrava- 
gant. For  instance,  a  farmer  has  a  ve- 
hicle, and  it  is  growing  old.  It  perhaps 
needs  a  new  spoke  or  two,  or  the  tires 
need  setting,  and  $10  would  repair  it 
sufficiently  to  last  him  another  year; 
but  along  comes  an  agent  and  offers 
him  a  new  carriage  for  $100,  and  the 
farmer  thinks  he  might  just  as  well 
have  the  new  one  as  to  fix  up  the  old 
one.  So  he  gives  his  note  for  the  $100, 
drawing  10  per  cent  interest  probably. 
At  the  end  of  the  year  the  $10  it  would 
have  cost  him  to  fix  up  the  old  car- 
iiage  has  gone  for  interest,  and  he 
owes  the  $100,  and  perhaps  in  a  worse 
condition  to  meet  it  than  he  was  when 
he  incurred  the  debt. 

I  might  go  on  and  enumerate  many 
things  of  this  kind,  and  I  feel,  as 
President  Smith  said,  that  the  time  has 
come  when  we  should  carefully  look 
into  these  matters.  We  may  not  al- 
ways have  sunshine;  we  may  not  al- 
ways have  prosperous  times,  and  now 
is  the  time  for  us  to  trim  our  sails  and 
keep  as  close  to  shore  as  possible. 

I  do  not  feel  able  to  say  more,  but 
I  repeat  what  I  said  in  the  beginning: 
I  am  in  full  accord  and  harmony  with 
my  president  and  with  Brother  Lund. 
The  three  of  us  work  in  unison  togeth- 
er. God  bless  you  all,  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  all  your  labors,  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLIS  2.  ROBINSON. 

(President  of  Wayne  Stake.) 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  appreciate 
the  privilege  of  attending  this  con- 
ference and  of  listening  to  the  good 
instructions  we  have  received.  If  I 
shall  be  blessed  with  a  portion  of  the 
Spirit  that  has  been  poured  out  upon 
other  speakers,  I  will  endeavor  to  rep- 
resent the  Wayne  stake  of  Zion. 


The  Wayne  stake  of  Zion,  geographic- 
ally speaking,  is  situated  in  the  south- 
eastern portion  of  this  state,  with  the 
Sevier  stake  upon  the  west  (from  which 
it  was  detached),  the  Panguitch  stake 
upon  the  south,  the  San  Juan  stake 
on  the  east,  and  the  Emery  stake  on 
the  north.  It  is  located  partially  up- 
on what  we  would  call  the  rim  of  the 
basin.  The  western  portion  is  high, 
and  it  is  somewhat  difficult  to  mature 
crops  there;  while  in  the  eastern  por- 
tion we  have  a  semi-tropiCal  climate 
similar  to  that  of  southern  Utah,  where 
the  people  can  raise  almost  anything 
they  are  inclined  to  plant  and  cultivate. 
So  that  we  have  a  variety  of  products  in 
the  Wayne  stake  of  Zion.  We  are  iso- 
lated from  the  railroads,  and  we  have 
no  corporate  properties  to  aid  us  in 
taxation,  but  are  compelled  to  rely  upon 
our  own  resources  in  this  respect.  Gen- 
erally speaking,  the  people  own  their 
own  homes.  While  the  subject  of  mort- 
gages has  been  discussed  here.  I  have 
been  reflecting  on  the  condition  of  the 
people  in  our  stake,  and  I  believe  that 
a  conservative  estimate  would  show 
that  there  are  not  a  score  of  mortgaged 
homes  in  the  Wayne  stake  of  Zion.  I 
am  very  well  conversant  with  the  situa- 
tion, as  I  live  near  the  recorder's  office, 
and  know  pretty  well  what  homes  are 
mortgaged,  and  I  am  thankful  for  this 
condition.  The  people  in  our  stake  are 
not  wealthy.  While  they  own  their 
own  homes,  they  are  upon  the  fron- 
tiers. They  have  been  struggling  to 
maintain  their  foothold,  and  have  suc- 
ceeded in  making  themselves  some- 
what comfortable;  yet  the  outflow  of 
emigration  to  the  north,  during  the 
past  two  or  three  years,  has  been  of 
such  a  nature  that  we  are  barely  hold- 
ing our  own,  so  far  as  numbers  are 
concerned.  I  can  speak  of  the  people 
of  Wayne  stake  as  a  good  people.  We 
have  eight  organized  wards,  and  five 
branches.  The  country  is  so  situated 
that  branches  are  almost  as  numerous 
as  wards.  From  one  end  of  the  stake 
to  the  other  it  is  about  80  miles  in 
almost  a  direct  line,  and  it  includes  all 
of  Wayne  county  and  a  small  portion  of 
Garfield  county.  I  believe  that  all  our 
wards  are  fully  organized,  excepting 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


67 


one  ward,  which  is  lacking  a  Bishop's 
counselor.  The  people  are  trying  to 
live  their  religion.  Our  High  Councilors 
are  good  men,  our  home  missionaries 
are  active,  and  the  people,  as  a  rule,  are 
feeling  as  well  in  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  as  I  have  known  them  to  be  for 
many  years.  In  fact,  I  think  we  are 
trying  to  keep  pace  with  Zion.  In  look- 
ing abroad  in  other  stakes  of  Zion, 
where  I  occasionally  am  called  on  busi- 
ness or  otherwise,  and  making  inquiries 
in  relation  to  existing  conditions,  I 
have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  about  equal  in 
point  of  religious  devotion.  There  may 
be  instances  where  they  are  more  mixed 
up  with  an  outside  element  than  we 
are  in  the  Wayne  stake,  and  this,  of 
course,  must  be  taken  into  considera- 
tion. We  have  been  fortunate  in  this 
regard,  and  we  have  only  one  saloon 
in  our  stake,  and  that  has  such  a  lone- 
some appearance  that  I  am  inclined  to 
think  it  will  soon  die  a  natural  death. 
We  teach  the  people  not  to  sustain  it, 
and  let  it  go  its  own  way — and  I  was 
going  to  say,  then  we  pray  for  its  early 
demise. 

We  have  many  opportunties  there 
that  are  yet  undeveloped.  We  have  a 
well  watered  county,  and  the  people 
are  engaged  in  taking  out  canals  and 
making  reservoirs,  and  we  hope  in  the 
near  future  that  we  may  be  able  to 
present  at  the  State  Fair  some  of  our 
products  which,  we  feel,  are  equal  in 
merit  to  many  that  are  on  exhibition 
at  the  fair. 

I  feel  well  in  this  work.  I  am  pleas- 
ed to  say  that  the  presidency  of  the 
stake  stand  as  they  did  when  it  was 
organized,  and  I  trust  so  long  as  I 
may  be  permitted  to  remain  in  that 
presidency  this  condition  of  affairs  may 
continue.  There  has  never  yet  been  a 
time  when  we  have  had  to  say  that 
the  majority  rules  in  the  presidency. 
We  have  reached  unanimous  conclusion 
on  every  occasion  before  taking  action 
upon  anything.  We  are  in  harmony 
with  our  High  Council,  and  with  the 
various  wards  and  organizations. 

I  can  testify  to  you  of  the  truthful- 
ness of  this  great  work.  If  our  friends 
in  the  world  should  come  here  and  see 


the  devotion  that  is  manifested  by 
this  people,  they  would  be  forced  to 
the  conclusion  that  there  is  something 
more  in  "Mormonism"  than  they  have 
given  it  credit  for.  I  ask  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  upon  our  efforts  to  serve 
Him  and  keep  His  commandments,  that 
we  may  be  in  harmony  with  one  an- 
other and  with  our  Father  in  heaven; 
that  what  we  hear  during  this  confer- 
ence may  not  fall  idly  upon  our  ears, 
but  that  we  may  take  it  to  our  homes 
and  put  it  into  practise,  so  that  when 
we  come  to  another  conference  we  may 
be  able  to  say  that  good  has  resulted 
from  our  teachings,  and  thus  keep  pace 
with  the  onward  progress  of  this  great 
work.  That  the  Lord  may  grant  these 
blessings,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH 

Gospel  truth  being  recognized  in  the  world — Vision 
of  the  Prophets  Lehiand  Nephi— Fulfiillment  of 
their  predictions — Charity  toward  those  who 
know  not  the  truth. 

I  pray  that  the  words  which  I  may 
speak  may  be  guided  by  the  inspiration 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  they 
may  follow  appropriately  that  which 
has  already  been  spoken,  and  be  of  ben- 
efit to  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  have 
gathered  here.  I  have  rejoiced  greatly 
in  the  conference,  and  I  have  been  very 
glad  in  my  heart  to  be  permitted  to 
meet  with  you  in  these  great  memorial 
meetings,  which  have  been  held,  by 
commandment  of  the  Lord,  annually 
and  semi-annually  since  the  Church 
was  established  in  the  year  1830.  I  feel 
in  my  heart  to  praise  the  Lord  for  the 
advancement  and  progress  that  has 
been  made  by  His  people;  that  His 
hand  has  been  and  is  over  His  Saints; 
that  He  is  leading  them,  and  that  they 
are  not  being  led  by  men.  We  are  often 
inclined  to  speak  of  the  brethren  whom 
the  Lord  has  placed  at  the  head  of  His 
Church,  as  the  leaders  of  the  Church; 
but  they  themselves  rejoice  that  they 
have  not  the  full  responsibility  of  lead- 
ing this  people, but  that  the  Lord  himself 
is  leading  us,  and  that  He  is  inspiring 
those  whom  He  has  chosen  to  stand 
at  our  head  on  the  earth. 

I  have  been  impressed  by  the  many 


68 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


testimonies  that  have  been  borne  by  the 
brethren  who  have  spokten,  and  the 
great  stress  that  has  been  laid  upon  the 
fact  that  the  Gospel  has  been  restored 
in  this  day;  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
raised  up  of  God  and  was  indeed  an  in- 
spired prophet,  and  that  he  was  the  in- 
strument in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  to 
establish  the  Church  which  has  con- 
vened this  great  conference.  The  hand 
of  man  has  not  been  in  it,  only  so  far 
as  that  hand  has  been  guided  by  the 
inspiration  of  God  Almighty. 

We  have  also  listened  to  some  com- 
parisons made  between  the  true  Church 
and  the  other  churches  of  the  world, 
and  some  very  sharp  contrasts  have 
been  defined.  We  have  been  given  to 
understand  that  some  of  the  princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  revealed  in 
this  dispensation  are  finding  their  way 
into  the  systems  of  men.  What  do 
we  see  in  this?  So  far  as  I  am  con- 
erned,  I  do  not  see  that  those  who  are 
incorporating  the  principles  of  Christ 
in  their  systems  are  doing  it  with  the 
view  of  getting  nearer  to  the  Church  of 
God,  because  they  already  believe  that 
they  have  the  Church  of  Christ.  They 
have  believed  it  for  many  years.  I  see 
in  this  the  fulfillment  of  the  prophe- 
cies of  God  made  in  times  gone 
by,  and  repeated  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  by  the  angel  Moroni  and  other 
angelic  ministers  who  came  to  him  dur- 
ing his  boyhood.  I  see  in  it  the  begin- 
ning of  the  fulfillment  of  the  prophecy 
of  the  Prophet  Joel,  through  whom  the 
Lord  said: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  afterward, 
that  I  will  pour  out  my  spirit  upon  all 
flesh;  and  your  sons  and  your  daugh- 
ters shall  prophesy,  your  old  men  shall 
dream  dreams,  your  young  men  shall 
see  visions; 

"And  also  upon  the  servants  and  upon 
the  handmaids  in  those  days  will  I 
pour  out  my  spirit." 

I  do  not  believe  that  these  principles 
are  being  incorporated  into  the  systems 
of  the  world  because  the  man-appoint- 
ed leaders  of  the  systems  have  particu- 
larly desired  it.  I  am  of  the  opinion 
that  they  have  had  to  yield  to  the  pub- 
lic sentiment  that  is  growing  in  the 
breasts  of  mankind,   demanding  that 


these  truths  be  adopted.  And  this  is 
the  Spirit  of  God  working  among  the 
children  of  men;  and  it  will  continue  to 
work  among  them.  This  prophecy  will 
be  fulfilled,  and  mankind  shall  desire 
to  know  the  truth.  Many  of  them  will 
seek  it,  and  they  will  go  to  their  lead- 
ers and  enquire  of  them  concerning 
the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  arid  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  as  now 
promulgated  in  the  world  by  the  Elders 
of  this  Church.  If  satisfaction  cannot 
be  given  them,  then  the  sentiment  will 
become  so  strong  and  so  universal  that 
the  leaders  of  the  systems  of  men  will 
have  to  yield  to  the  demands  of  the 
people  as  they  shall  be  influenced  by 
this  unseen  power,  which  is  nothing 
more  nor  less  than  the  Spirit  of  God 
being  poured  out  in  measure  upon  the 
children  of  men. 

It  is  no  source  of  rejoicing  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  so  many 
millions  are  ignorant  of  the  truth. 
It  is  no  great  reason  for  boast- 
ing on  our  part,  that  changes 
are  being  made  in  the  systems  of  men, 
and  that  revealed  principles  are  being 
adopted  by  them.  While  it  may  show 
forth  their  vulnerable  parts,  and  give 
an  opening  against  which  the  atheist 
may  direct  his  shafts  of  sarca=m,  yet 
the  Latter-day  Saints  will  not  raise 
their  voices  in  derision  concerning 
them.  Rather  will  we  rejoice  that  man- 
kind will  receive  principles  of  truth, 
incorporate  them  in  their  systems,  and 
live  them  in  their  lives.  The  Gospel 
has  been  restored  in  our  day  for  the 
benefit  of  the  world,  and  we  deplore 
the  fact  that  the  world  to  such  a  great 
extent  are  without  a  knowledge  of  it. 
And  I  am  not  inclined  to  believe  that 
they  are  in  this  condition  of  ignorance 
because  they  prefer  it.  The  Book  of 
Mormon  does  not  lead  one  to  that  con- 
clusion. Read  the  great  vision  that 
was  given  to  the  Prophet  Nephi,  after 
it  had  been  shown  to  his  father  Lehi. 
Lehi  had  related  the  vision  to  his  sons, 
and  Nephi  had  been  filled  with  a  de- 
sire to  see  it  himself.  The  Lord  grant- 
ed him  his  desire,  according  to  his 
faith;  and  a  vision  of  the  world,  from 
the  beginning  to  the  end  of  it,  was 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


shown  unto  Nephi,  and  he  was  permit- 
ted to  write  much  of  it.  This  was  six 
hundred  years  before  the  time  of 
Christ.  In  the  vision,  Nephi  beheld 
the  Virgin  Mary,  and  he  saw  an  infant 
in  her  arms,  who  was  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  He  saw  the  ministry  of 
the  Savior;  saw  Him  heal  the  sick, 
perform  mighty  miracles,  and  declare 
righteousness  and  redemption  to  the 
world;  saw  Him  lifted  upon  the  cross 
by  evil  men,  and  suffer  ignominy  and 
death.  He  saw  the  labors  and  ministry 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Lamb  of 
God,  and  afterwards  saw  the  people 
rise  up  against  them,  persecute  them, 
put  thm  to  death,  and  almost  exter- 
minate the  Saints  of  God.  Nephi  saw 
all  this,  and  wrote  of  it.  Further- 
more, he  tells  us,  in  the  13th  chapter 
of  I  Nephi  : 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  saw 
among  the  nations  of  the  Gentiles  the 
foundation  of  a  great  church. 

"And  the  angel  said  unto  me,  Behold 
the  foundation  of  a  church,  which  is 
most  abominable  above  all  other 
churches,  which  slayeth  the  Saints  of 
God,  yea,  and  tortureth  them,  and 
bindeth  them  down,  and  yoketh  them 
with  a  yoke  of  iron,  and  bringeth  them 
down  into  captivity. 

*   «  * 

"And  after  they  (the  Jewish  scrip- 
tures) go  forth  by  the  hand  of  the 
twelve  apostles  of  the  Lamb  from  the 
Jews  unto  the  Gentiles,  thou  seest  the 
foundation  of  a  great  and  abominable 
church,  which  is  most  abominable 
above  all  other  churches;  for  behold, 
they  have  taken  away  from  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lamb,  many  parts  which  are 
plain  and  most  precious;  and  also 
many  covenants  of  the  Lord  have  they 
taken  away. 

"And  all  this  have  they  done,  that 
they  might  pervert  the  right  ways  of 
the  Lord  that  they  might  blind  the  eyes 
and  harden  the  hearts  of  the  children 
of  men.  « 

"Wherefore,  thou  seest  that  after  the 
book  hath  gone  forth  tnrough  the 
hands  of  the  great  and  abominable 
church,  that  there  are  many  plain  and 
precious  things  taken  away  from  the 
book,  which  is  the  book  of  the  Lamb 
of  God. 

And  after  these  plain  and  precious 
things  were  taken  away,  it  goeth  forth 
unto  all  the  nations  of  the  Gentiles;  and 
after  it  goeth  forth  unto  all  the  nations 
of  the  Gentiles,  yea,  even  across  the 
many  waters  which  thou  hast  seen 
with  the  Gentiles  which  have  gone 
forth  out  of  captivity;  thou  seest  be- 


69 


cause  of  the  many  plain  and  precious 
things  which  have  been  taken  out  of 
the  book,  which  were  plain  unto  the 
understanding  of  the  children  of  men, 
according  to  the  plainness  which  is  in 
the  Lamb  of  God;  because  of  these 
things  which  are  taken  away  out  of 
the  Gospel  of  the  Lamb,  an  exceeding: 
great  many  do  stumble,  yea,  insomuch 
that  Satan  hath  great  power  over 
them." 

From  this  you  may  gatner  some  idea 
as  to  why  the  world  is  in  ignorance  of 
the  Gospel. 

Nephi  saw  that  when  the  seed  of  his 
father  had  dwindled  in  unbelief  and 
most  of  them  had  been  destroyed  be- 
cause of  their  wickedness,  people  came 
to  this  land  out  of  captivity, where  they 
might  be  secure  in  the  worship  of  God. 
The  blessings  of  the  Lord,  he  says, 
were  with  them,  and  in  due  time,  when 
the  mother  nation  came  to  make  war 
upon  them  and  were  arrayed  in  battle 
against  them,  God  was  with  them. 
They  had  left  the  nations  of  the  Gen- 
tiles and  had  come  to  this  land  of 
promise,  where  they  might  worship 
God  according  to  the  dictates  of  their 
own  consciences,  and  the  Lord  preserv- 
ed them  from  their  enemies.  He  saw 
these  pople  going  forth  among  the  seed 
of  his  brethren  (who  are  now  as  we 
know,  the  Lamanites),  taking  with 
them  the  Bible,  the  book  which  had 
proceeded  from  the  mouth  of  the  Jews, 
and  from  which  had  been  taken,  by 
the  great  and  abominable  church,  many 
great  and  glorious  principles  of  the 
Gospel  of  Christ,  and  he  beheld  that 
many  people  did  stumble  because  of 
the  most  plain  and  precious  parts  of 
the  Gospel  which  had  been  taken  from 
the  book.  But  he  goes  on  to  say  that 
the  Lord  would  give  unto  the  people 
who  dwelt  upon  this  continent  the 
Gospel  in  its  purity. 

"For  behold,  saith  the  Lamb,  I  will 
manifest  myself  unto  thy  seed,  that 
they  shall  write  many  things  which  I 
shall  minister  unto  them,  which  shall 
be  plain  and  precious;  and  after  thy 
seed  shall  be  destroyed,  and  dwindle  in 
unbelief,  and  also  the  seed  of  thy 
brethren;  behold,  these  things  shall  be 
hid  up,  to  come  forth  unto  the  Gen- 
tiles, by  the  gift  and  power  of  the 
Lamb; 

"And  in  them  shall  be  written  my 
gospel,  saith  the  Lamb." 


70 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


Brethren  and  sisters,  we  see  the  ful- 
fillment of  this  great  prophecy  in  the 
coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
That  is  the  book  which  Nephi  saw  come 
forth  unto  the  Gentiles,  containing 
those  plain  and  precious  principles 
which  had  been  taken  from  the  other 
book,  by  reason  of  which  mankind  were 
in  doubt  and  without  a  knowledge  of 
the  pure  Gospel.  Therefore,  I  say  I 
do  not  believe  the  people  are  in  this 
condition  of  unbelief,  indifference  and 
contention  because  they  prefer  to  be  in 
that  condition,  but  because  for  centur- 
ies they  have  been  led  by  men  who 
had  not  themselves  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth.  Their  eyes  have  been  blinded  to 
the  truth,  while  they  have  been  led  to 
believe  that  what  they  received  was  the 
truth.  By  reading  this  glorious  revela- 
tion that  has  come  forth  in  our  day, 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  we  shall  find 
these  great  principles  of  truth  revealed 
anew.  Furthermore,  the  Lord  pro- 
nounced a  woe  upon  those  who  will 
stand  up  and  declare,  "We  have  a  Bible, 
and  we  want  no  more  Bible."  He  has 
denounced  such;  for  who  is  the  Lord 
that  He  cannot  give  more  to  His  chil- 
dren? He  has  made  other  promises  in 
addition  to  this.  He  has  declared  that 
there  are  many  other  records  still  to 
come  forth,  containing  His  word  to  men 
who  have  lived  upon  this  earth,  and 
they  will  come  forth  in  due  time  to 
corroborate  the  words  of  the  Bible  and 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  to  establish 
the  fact  that  all  the  children  of  the 
world  are  the  sons  and  daughters  of 
God;  that  He  is  mindful  of  them  all, 
and  that  to  all  of  them  will  He  reveal 
His  word.  He  spoke  thus  to  the  Ne- 
phites: 

"For  behold,  I  shall  speak  unto  the 
Jews,  and  they  shall  write  it;  and  I 
shall  speak  unto  the  Nephites,  and 
they  shall  write  it;  and  I  shall  also 
speak  unto  the  other  tribes  of  the 
house  of  Israel,  which  I  have  led  away, 
and  they  shall  write  it;  and  I  shall  also 
speak  unto  all  nations  of  the  earth,  and 
they  shall  write  it." 

These  records  shall  come  forth,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  it  ill  becomes 
any  man  to  stand  up  and  attempt  to 
limit  God  in  the  exercise  of  His  di- 


vine right  to  speak  when  and  to  whom 
He  pleases.  "We  have  an  evidence  of 
the  truth  of  this  in  connection  with  the 
Book  of  Mormon  itself.  A  portion  of 
the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon was  translated  was  sealed,  and 
has  not  yet  been  translated,  but  under 
the  promise  of  God  shall  be  made 
known  to  the  people.  When  these 
things  shall  come  forth,  they  will  fur- 
nish additional  and  incontrovertible 
proof  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  in- 
deed from  God.  And  why  should  it 
not  be?  Have  you  read  the  book?  Does 
it  not  contain  revelations  and  visions 
similar  to  the  Bible?  Does  it  not  con- 
tain the  same  glorious  Gospel,  and  the 
same  mighty  exhortations  to  men  to 
serve  God  and  to  turn  from  their  evil 
ways?  Yes.  And  furthermore,  it  is  a 
book  that  has  never  been  contaminated 
or  tampered  with  by  man;  and  none 
of  the  words  writen  in  that  book  have 
ever  been  changed  by  any  man  or 
church.  They  are  the  pure  words  of 
God,  as  they  were  given  through  the 
inspiration  of  the  Spirit  to  the  proph- 
ets who  wrote  them  anciently.  Thank 
and  praise  God,  that  in  His  mercy  He 
has  revealed  these  things  to  the  earth 
in  these  days,  in  fulfillment  of  proph- 
ecy, and  that  the  truth  is  spreading 
abroad,  and  this  spirit  is  being  poured 
out  upon  the  world.  Because  of  the 
teaching  of  these  additional  precious 
principles  of  the  truth,  which  have  been 
lost  for  centuries,  the  world  is  enquir- 
ing after  the  truth,  and  the  denomina- 
tions are  being  compelled,  little  by  lit- 
tle, to  yield  to  this  demand  and  senti- 
ment of  the  people  through  the  work- 
ings of  the  Spirit.  That  is  the  way  I 
view  it.  May  the  Spirit  of  God  con- 
tinue to  be  poured  out  upon  the  people, 
that  they  may  desire  the  truth, 
aim  to  do  right,  strive  to  know  God, 
and  never  rest  satisfied  until  they  re- 
ceive the  pure  Gospel  of  Christ  and  en- 
joy its  privileges  and  blessings,  even 
to  the  extent  that  it  shall  come  to  them 
in  power,  in  majesty,  and  with  much 
assurance,  leaving  no  room  whatever 
for  doubt.  In  this  way  has  the  Gos- 
pel come  to  you.  So  is  it  being  car- 
ried to  the  nations  of  the  world.  So  is  it 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


71 


being  accepted  by  thousands.  And  so 
shall  this  great  and  mighty  power 
which  has  been  revealed  in  our  day — 
the  Holy  Ghost — come  to  man,  and  the 
authority  of  Almighty  God  be  spread 
abroad,  until  all  mankind  shall  be  re- 
deemed from  their  sins,  when  it  shall 
be  a  pleasure  for  men  to  adopt  the 
truth  in  their  religions. 

You  Latter-day  Saints  ought  to  praise 
God;  but  in  your  thankfulness  for  the 
greater  blessings  which  you  enjoy,  you 
ought  not  to  denounce  others  because 
they  have  not  so  much  good  as  you 
have.  No;  our  whole  souls  should  be 
filled  with  pity  because  of  their  con- 
dition, and  we  should  sympathize  with 
them  be'cause  of  their  ignorance  and 
blindness  because  they  are  being  led 
by  blind  guides.  We  should  go  forth 
among  them  with  the  sole  desire  in 
our  hearts  to  manifest  unto  them  that 
which  God  has  revealed  unto  us,  and 
carry  to  them  that  which  has  made  us 
free  and  happy,  and  which  has  made  us 
in  very  deed  the  Church  and  people 
of  God.  That  should  be  the  feeling  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  feel  so  at  thi ; 
present  time,  my  brothers  and  sisters. 
Sometimes  I  feel  otherwise,  because  the 
spirit  of  humanity  and  the  weakness 
of  the  flesh  overcome  me  and  cause  me 
to  do  and  say  things  which  are  not 
in  accord  with  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  May  the  Lord  forgive  it,  and 
help  me  to  become  so  strong  that  I  may 
overcome  it,  so  that  I  may  see  in  all 
men  the  children  of  God,  and  that  I 
may  understand  that  it  is  the  desire  of 
our  Father  in  heaven  that  all  shall 
be  saved  in  His  kingdom.  May  I  feel 
a  great  pleasure  and  joy  in  doing  my 
part,  and  a  greater  pleasure  and  joy  in 
seeing  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  doing 
their  part  towards  carrying  this  grand 
Gospel  to  all  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
that  they  may  hear  and,  if  it  please 
God,  yield  obedience  to  the  truth.  May 
the  Lord  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
May  He  bless  the  people  of  the  world. 
May  His  Spirit  be  poured  out  in  more 
abundance  than  it  has  heretofore  been. 
May  the  people  of  the  world  seek  after 
truth  to  a  greater  extent  than  they 
have  already  done.  May  they  desire  to 
serve  God.   May  the  spirit  of  good,  and 


not  of  evil,  of  love,  and  not  of  hatred, 
of  philanthropy,  and  not  of  envy,  be 
poured  out  upon  the  people,  to  the  con- 
summation of  all  the  righteous 
purposes  of  the  Lord,  and  may  we  live 
long  to  see  the  accomplishment  of  much 
of  it,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

Elder  Thomas  Ashworth  sang  a  sa- 
cred song,  of  which  Sister  Mary  Kelly 
is  the  author.  The  music  is  the  com- 
position of  Brother  Joseph  J.  Daynes. 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS. 

Testimony — Prophetic  character  of  Elder  Pratt's 
hymn— Recent  literature  on  Mormonism— Phil- 
osophical attempt  to  account  for  it — Accounting 
for  Mormonism  tested — The  Church  the  witness 
of  its  own  divinity — Home  ministry  of  the 
Church — Concluding  reflections. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  to 
bear  you  my  testimony  that  during  this 
conference  there  has  been  a  rich  out- 
pouring of  the  Spirit  of  God  upon  His 
servants;  my  heart  has  been  made 
glad,  and  I  have  rejoiced  in  the  truths 
we  have  received.  I  do  not  bear  this 
testimony  to  you  because  I  think  it  is 
necessary  to  confirm  the  words  that 
have  been  spoken,  nor  in  the  hope  of 
adding  emphasis  to  what  has  been  said, 
nor  to  convince  you  that  you  have  lis- 
tened to  the  truth.  The  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  I  am  confident,  has  borne  record 
to  your  souls  already  as  it  has  to  mine, 
that  what  we  have  heard  in  this  con- 
ference is  true,  is  precious,  and  is  the 
word  of  the  Lord  unto  the  people.  I 
merely  bear  you  my  testimony  that  you 
may  know  that  in  my  heart  also  the 
Spirit  has  given  witness  of  the  good 
things  we  have  received  from  God,  and 
that  I  am  one  with  you  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  these  blessings. 

I  am  now  called  upon  to  address  you 
for  a  short  time,  and  I  desire  to  be 
under  the  same  influence  that  my 
brethren  have  enjoyed  while  speaking. 
Yet  when  I  come  to  view  my  own  life, 
I  confess  that  it  is  with  some  degree  of 
fear  and  trembling  that  I  ask  God  in 
my  heart  for  this  blessing;  for  the  rea- 
son that  I  cannot  feel  altogether  that 
I  merit  it,  but  am  under  the  necessity 
of  trusting  in  the  mercy  and  grace  of 
God.  Such  is  the  weakness  of  human 
nature  that  I  presume— at  least  I  speak 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


for  myself— if  it  were  not  for  God's 
goodness  and  grace  and  for  His  willing- 
ness to  help  those  who  are  striving 
to  overcome  and  to  be  His  ser- 
vant's, it  would  be  almost  beyond 
man's  power  to  approach  God  with  suf- 
ficient confidence  to  obtain  the  out- 
pouring of  His  Spirit  and  power.  It  is 
in  this  spirit,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  approach  the  Lord  on  this  occa- 
sion— with  fear  and  trembling,  ac- 
knowledging my  own  weakness  and  im- 
perfections before  you  all;  and  if  God 
in  His  mercy  will  pour  out  His  Spirit 
and  grant  us  a  blessing  through  the 
words  I  may  speak,  then  shall  the  hon- 
or and  the  praise  and  the  glory  be  ac- 
corded unto  Him.  Moreover,  we  de- 
sire, in  this  way,  that  is,  through  His 
Spirit,  to  be  taught  of  God,  and  not  of 
man,  nor  by  the  spirit  of  man. 

Many  beautiful  thoughts  were  awak- 
ened in  my  mind  by  the  singing  of  that 
splendid  hymn  composed  by  the  late 
Elder  Parley  P.  Pratt,  and  sung  by 
his  grandsons  in  this  conference.  The 
hymn  was  originally  published  upon 
the  cover  of  the  first  number  of  the 
"Millennial  Star,"  in  the  month  of 
April,  1840;  and  if  I  were  going  to 
take  a  text  on  this  occasion  it  would 
be  the  first  verse  of  that  hymn: 

The  morning  breaks  the  shadows  flee; 

Lo!  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled, 
The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day 

Majestic  rises  on  the  world. 

Sixty-three  years  of  experience  has 
demonstrated  the  inspiration  of  God  in 
that  utterance.  If  in  thought  you  will 
go  back  to  that  time — 1840 — and  take 
account  of  the  progress  made  by  the 
nations  of  the  earth  since  then,  you 
will  find  that  there  has  been  more  ad- 
vancement in  arts,  in  sciences,  in  me- 
chanics, in  scientific  and  religious 
thought,  than  in  any  five  hundred  years 
previous  to  that  time.  Truly  the  dawn- 
ing of  a  brighter  day  has  arisen  ma- 
jestically on  the  world!  The  dawn  of 
that  day  began  when  God  once  more 
renewed  divine  communication  with 
men.  When  He  graciously  revealed 
Himself  and  His  ,Son  Jesus  Christ 
to  a  Prophet  and  announced  the 
incoming  of  the  Dispensation    of  the 


Fullness  of  Times,  in  which  should  be 
gathered  together  all  things  in  one, 
even  in  Christ,  whether  they  were 
things  in  heaven,  or  things  on  earth. 
That  was  the  beginning  of  the 
dawn  of  that  brighter  day.  Since 
that  event  flood  upon  flood 
of  light  has  come  to  the  earth, 
making  it  radiant  with  intelligence.  The 
direct  result  of  the  dawning  of  that 
brighter  day  has  been  the  restoration  of 
the  holy  Priesthood  of  God — the  power 
of  God  given  to  man,  by  which  man 
may  co-operate  with  Gods  and  angels  in 
bringing  to  pass  the  purposes  of  Je- 
hovah. Also  with  the  restoration  of 
the  Priesthood  has  come  a  profounder 
knowledge  of  the  things  of  God;  a  bet- 
ter understanding  of  the  character  and 
being  of  God;  of  the  relationship  which 
man  sustains  to  Him;  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Church  of  Christ;  together 
with  broader  views  of  the  plan  of  man's 
salvation  and  the  redemption  of  the 
earth.  I  believe  also  that  with  this 
flood  of  knowledge  concerning  these 
highly  spiritual  things,  there  has  come 
into  the  world,  almost  imperceptibly,  a 
more  generally  diffused  and  brighter 
spirit  of  intelligence  than  was  known 
before;  like  collateral  rays  shoot- 
ing off  to  right  and  left  from  the  more 
direct  light  of  God's  revelations  which 
ushered  in  the  great  work  of  the  last 
days.  By  those  collateral  rays  of  light 
men  have  been  led  to  those  great  dis- 
coveries in  the  arts  and  sciences  and  in 
mechanics,  which  make  our  age  so  won- 
derful as  an  age  of  progress  and  en- 
lightenment. If  I  am  right  in  this  con- 
jecture respecting  this  diffusion  of  a 
more  general  spirit  of  intelligence  in  the 
world  as  a  result  of  the  renewed  di- 
rect communication  between  heaven 
and  earth,  then  we  should  not  be  sur- 
prised, and  I  am  sure  that  none  of  us 
are  envious  in  the  matter — we  should 
not  be  surprised,  that  the  sects  and 
parties  in  the  world,  outside  of  the 
organization  known  as  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, should 
partake  of  some  of  the  rays  of  light 
emanating  from  this  central  spiritual 
sun.  Why,  in  olden  times,  even 
the  beggars  and  strangers  were 
welcome   to     the   crumbs     that  fell 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


73 


from  the  Master's  table  and  so  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  now  if  they 
cannot  accept  the  fullness  of  the  Gos- 
pel, are  welcome  to  such  fragments  of 
that  truth  as  may  penetrate  their  un- 
derstandings. I  rejoice  that  they  are 
partaking  in  a  measure  of  these  things; 
and  while  I  believe  with  Elder  Cowley 
that  perhaps  they  are  not  designedly 
accepting  them  in  order  to  hon- 
or God,  still  I  am  of  the  opinion  that 
such  is  the  wisdom  of  our  Father 
that  He  will  overrule  their  partial  ac- 
ceptance of  the  truth  to  His  glory,  and 
ultimately  to  a  more  rapid  moving  for- 
ward of  the  great  work  that  He  has 
in  hand.  After  awhile,  those  who  are 
now  taking  up  fragments  of  the  truth 
into  their  creeds  will  be  under  the 
necessity  of  comparing  notes  and  trac- 
ing things  to  their  source,  and  when 
they  do  that  they  will  learn  that  these 
great  religious  truths  are  not  man's 
discovery,  but  God's  revelation  unto 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  and  that 
they  were  revealed  through  His  chosen 
instrument,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

It  is  not,  however,  in  this  direction 
that  I  would  lead  your  thoughts  on 
this  ocasion.  I  want  to  speak,  if  I  shall 
enjoy  the  liberty  of  God's  Spirit,  upon 
another  subject.  Some  of  you  perhaps 
are  aware  of  the  fact  that  I  have  been 
giving  some  attention  of  late  to  the 
literature  on  "Mormonism;"  not  only 
that  which  we  ourselves  publish,  but 
that  also  which  is  published  by  others. 
The  publications  on  "Mormonism"  dur- 
ing the  last  five  years,  I  believe,  are 
more  numerous  than  in  any  20  years 
previous  to  that  time.  The  last  five 
vears  have  witnessed  an  awakening  of 
thought  upon  our  religion.  More,  and 
ever  more  attention  is  being  given  to 
It.  More  newspaper  articles,  more 
magazine  articles,  more  volumes — some 
of  them  quite  pretentious — have  been 
written  on  "Mormonism"  than  ever  be- 
fore, and  indicate  the  universal  interest 
taken  in  the  subject.  The  books  and 
magazine  articles  have  been  written 
from  various  standpoints;  some  of 
them  in  the  old  spirit  of  bit- 
terness, and  some  of  them  are 
intended  to  be  written  in  a  spirit 
of    fairness.    Yet  I    marvel  at  their 


ideas  of  fairness.  One  work,  written 
a  noted  professor,  pretending  to  be  an 
impartial  history,  and  issued  by  one  of 
the  first  publishing  houses  in  the  Unit 
ed  States,  with  the  view  evidently  of 
establishing  a  standard  history  of 
"Mormonism,"  gives  full  credence  to 
everything  that  has  been  said  against 
us,  but  the  author  invariably  cautions 
his  readers  against  every  quotation  he 
makes  from  our  own  works— and  yet 
that  book  is  put  forth  as  an  impartial 
history  of  "Mormonism ! "  Some  have  at- 
tempted to  write  from  a  philosophical 
standpoint,  but  with  the  result  that 
they  plainly  manifest  that  they  hav* 
not  yet  reached  foundation  principles 
upon  which  they  can  satisfactorily  ac- 
count for  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet, 
and  the  great  work  that  he  accomplish- 
ed. Whenever  I  see  my  enemy  shifting 
his  ground;  whenever  I  see  that  his  eye 
is  not  steady,  but  shifts  to  the  right 
or  to  the  left,  or  looks  behind,  that 
evidence  of  uncertainty,  of  indecision, 
tells  me  that  I  am  his  master.  So,  too! 
with  reference  to  the  great  work  of 
God.  When  I  see  men  shifting  their 
grounds,  and  advancing  first  one  theory 
and  then  another  to  account  for  "Mor- 
monism," and  there  is  confusion  among 
them,  uncertainty,  indecision — I  know 
that  the  citadel  of  our  mighty  faith  is 
secure  from  harm  from  their  attacks; 
that  "Mormonism"  cannot  fall  a  victim 
to  Iheir  philosophies  or  their  argu- 
ments. 

Let  me,  for  a  little  while,  draw  your 
attention  to  at  least  one  of  the  so-called 
philosophical  solutions  of  "Mormon- 
ism;" a  scientific  accounting  for  Joseph 
Smith.  The  work  I  allude  to  was  of- 
fered to  Yale  University  as  a  thesis 
upon  which  the  author  hoped  to  secure, 
and  I  think  he  did  secure,  the  degree 
of  Bachelor  of  Philosophy.  He  candid- 
ly confesses  that  it  is  an  effort  to  ac- 
count for  Joseph  Smith  upon  some  oth- 
er hypothesis  than  that  he  was  a  con- 
scious fraud,  bent  on  deceiving  man- 
kind. When  an  intelligent  man  makes 
such  an  announcement  as  that,  I  know, 
and  you  know,  that  the  theories  hereto- 
fore advanced  to  account  for  Joseph 
Smith  are    unsatisfactory,    that  they 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  failed.  The  theory  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  conscious  fraud  has  fallen 
to  the  ground.  The  charges  frequently- 
made  and  persistently  urged  that 
"Mormonism"  had  its  origin  in  decep- 
tion and  conscious  fraud  have  failed  of 
their  purpose.  The  floods  of  falsehood 
with  which  some  men  have  sought  to 
overwhelm  "Mormonism"  have  not  ac- 
complished the  end  proposed.  The  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  after  about  three- 
quarters  of  a  century  of  existence, 
stand  above  all  the  floods  of  falsehood 
that  have  been  belched  out  against 
them.  The  work  of  God  has  not  brok- 
en donvn,  it  has  survived;  and  the 
Saints  smilingly  pity  those  who  would 
make  use  of  such  contemptible  means 
with  which  to  combat  the  truth  of  Al- 
mighty God.  Now,  however,  we  are  to 
be  treated  philosophically.  And  the 
philosophy  that  is  advanced  is,  uncon- 
scious hallucination  in  the  mind  of  Jo- 
seph Smith;  partly  unconscious  and 
partly  conscious  possession  of  hypnotic 
power,  by  which  the  minds  of  those 
arcund  him  were  dominated  and  made 
to  see  things  which  in  reality  had  no 
existence;  and  while  the  witnesses  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  others  tes- 
tify of  visions  and  voices  from  God 
honestly  enough,  still  as  a  matter  of 
fact  those  revelations  had  really  no 
objective  existence,  but  were  mental 
hallucinations.  And  as  for  Joseph 
Smith,  he  was  deceived  by  epileptic 
conditions.  The  author  I  am  consid- 
ering is  at  great  pains  to  trace  the 
ancestry  of  the  Prophet,  pointing  out 
their  mental  peculiarities  and  supposed 
defects,  leading  up  ■  to  the  conclusion 
that  these  defects  of  mind  in  his  an- 
cestors culminated  in  epilepsy  in  Jo- 
seph Smith.  And  hence,  we  have  as 
the  explanation  of  "Mormonism,"  epil- 
eptic fits  in  its  Prophet,  whose  halluci* 
nations  are  honestly  mistaken  for  in- 
spired visions,  with  partly  conscious 
and  partly  unconscious  hypnotic  powj 
ers  over  others!  And  this  theory  if! 
presented  seriously  to  one  of  the  first 
institutions  of  learning  in  America  as 
a  rational  explanation  of  how  "Mor- 
monism"  came  into  existence! 

Ernest  Renan,  the  French  philoso- 


pher, when  considering  a  similar  hy- 
pothesis to  account  for  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  overthrew  all  that  kind  of 
sophistry  with  this  simple  statement: 
"It  has  never  been  given  to  the  mere 
aberrations  of  the  human  mind  to  re- 
sult in  the  establishment  of  permanent 
institutions  that  influence  any  consid- 
erable number  of  people."  In  other 
words,  the  dreams  and  halluc'nations 
of  the  epileptic  end  in  mere  dreams 
and  hallucinations;  they  never  crystal  - 
ize  into  great  systems  of  philosophy  or 
into  rational  religious  institutions.  They 
never  crystalize  into  great  organiza- 
tions capable  of  perpetuating  that 
philosophy  and  that  religion  in  the 
world.  No  matter  how  nearly  genius 
may  be  allied  to  madness,  it  must  re- 
main genius  and  not  degenerate  to 
madness  if  it  exercises  any  permanent 
influence  over  the  minds  of  men. 

There  is  much  glamor  of  sophistry, 
which  may  be  taken  for  profound  rea- 
son and  argument,  in  the  work  to  which 
I  call  your  attention.  But  one  word 
answers  this  philosophical  accounting 
for  our  Prophet.  The  work  accom- 
plished by  him,  the  institutions  he 
founded,  destroy  the  whole  fabric  of 
premises  and  argument  on  which  this 
theory  is  based.  Great  as  was  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith — and  he  v/as 
great;  to  him  more  than  to  any  o.her 
man  of  modern  times  was  it  given  to 
look  deep  into  the  things  that  are;  to 
comprehend  the  heavens  and  the  laws 
that  obtain  there;  to  understand  the 
earth,  its  history,  and  i(s  mission.  He 
looked  into  the  deep  things  of  God — al- 
ways, be  it  remembered,  by  the  inspi- 
ration of  God — and  cut  of  the  rich 
treasure  of  divine  knowledge  he 
brought  forth  things  both  new  and  old 
for  the  instruction  of  our  race,  the  like 
of  which,  in  some  respects,  had  not  been 
known  in  previous  dispensations.  Hence 
I  repeat  that  Joseph  Sm'th  was  great; 
but  great  as  he  was,  rising  up  and 
towering  far  above  him  >.s  the  work 
that  he  accomplished  through  divine 
guidance;  that  work  is  infinitely  great- 
er than  the  prophet — greater  than  all 
the  prophets  connected  with  it.  its 
consistency,  its  permanency,  its  pow- 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


75 


er,  its  institutions,  contradict  the  hal- 
lucination theory  advanced  to  account 
for  its  origin. 

Let  us  look  at  this  work  for  a  mo- 
ment. If  one  could  but  draw  it  clear- 
ly in  outline,  and  prerent  it  in  its  orig- 
inality and  greatness,  it  *vaujd  be  its 
own  witness  of  its  divinity;  for  in  all 
things  it  transcends  the  mere  wit  of 
man.  Take  the  Church  organisation  for 
illustration;  and  look  at  it  with  refer- 
ence to  its  being  and  assemblage  of 
means  to  the  accompHshment  of  an 
end.  As  I  understand  the  Church  of 
Christ  its  mission  is  two-fold:  first,  it 
is  to  proclaim  the  truth;  second,  it  -is 
to  perfect  those  who  receive  the  truth. 
I  think  these  two  things  cover,  in  a 
general  way,  the  entire  mission  of  the 
Church.  Is  its  organization  competent 
to  attain  those  two  mighty  ends?  Let 
us  see;  and  first  as  to  the  proclamation 
of  the  truth — the  work  really  of  the 
foreign  ministry.  What  pr«jv5sion  has 
God  made  fov  tha"7  He  has  m  His 
Church,  first  of  .'ill  Twelve  Special  Wit- 
nesses, the  Twelve  Apostles,  who  were 
chosen  in  the  first  instance,  by  the 
Three  Special  Witnesses  to  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  I  remark  in  passing  that 
there  is  a  peculiar  fitness  in  the  Twelve 
Apostles — the  Twelve  Special  Witness- 
es being  chosen  by  those  who  had  been 
made  Witnesses  for  God  by  the  great 
vision  and  revelation  He  had  given 
them  concerning  the  absolute  truth 
and  correctness  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. Upon  these  Twelve  Apostles 
rests  the  responsibility  of  being  wit- 
nesses for  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  all 
the  world.  That  is  their  special,  pecu- 
liar calling.  You  can  see,  however,  if 
you  take  into  account  the  extent  of 
their  field  of  labor — for  it  encompasses 
the  whole  round  world — that  twelve 
men  would  not  be  adequate  to  meet  all 
the  requirements  of  the  foreign  minis- 
try. God  knew  this,  and  hence  He 
called  into  existence  other  spe- 
cial witnesses,  to  labor  under  the 
direction  of  these  twelve,  they  holding 
the  keys  to  open  the  door  of  the  Gos- 
pel to  all  the  nations  of  the  earth;  for 
all  must  hear  it,  from  the  greatest  to 
the  least.    The  Twelve,  I  say,  hold  the 


keys  of  this  foreign  ministry;  and 
hence  whenever  there  has  been  an 
opening  of  the  door  of  the  Gospel  to  a 
foreign  nation,  one  or  more  of  these 
men  holding  the  keys  have  been  sent  to 
do  it.  It  was  for  this  reason  that  He- 
ber  C.  Kimball,  one  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  was  sent  to  Great  Britain  in 
1837,  to  open  the  door  of  the  Gospel  in 
that  land;  why  Elder  John  Taylor  was 
sent  to  France  and  Germany;  why  El- 
der Lorenzo  Snow  was  sent  to  Italy  and 
Switzerland;  why  Erastus  Snow  was 
sent  to  the  Scandinavian  countries; 
why  Parley  P.  Pratt  went  to  Chili  and 
opened  the  door  of  the  Gospel  to  the 
South  American  Republics;  why,  more 
recently,  Elder  Heber  J.  Grant  was  sent 
to  Japan  to  open  a  mission.  Wheth- 
er he  has  accomplished,  in  his  own  es- 
timation much  or  little,  it  was  for  the 
reason  that  he  held  the  Keys  of  this 
ministry  that  he  was  sent  to  the  great 
enpire  of  Japan,  to  open  the  door  of 
the  Gospel  in  that  land;  and  to  open 
the  door  of  the  Gospel  to  so  great  an 
empire  is  of  itself  a  very  great  work; 
and  will  be  accounted  as  one  of  the 
chief  items  in  Elder  Grant's 
career  as  an  Apostle.  The  Twelve 
then  hold  the  keys  of  this  min- 
istry, and  upon  them  devolves  this 
responsibility  of  opening  the  door  of 
salvation  to  the  nations.  But  after 
them,  other  witnesses  are  chosen.  These 
are  the  seventy  apostles,  or  special 
witnesses,  the  assistants  of  the  Twelve; 
under  whose  directions  they  labor.  At 
first,  two  quorums  of  Seventy  only  were 
organized;  but  with  the  promise  of  the 
Prophet  that  as  the  work  should  ex- 
pand other  quorums  would  be  organ- 
ized, not  only  till  seven  times  seven 
quorums  should  be  brought  into  exist- 
ence, but  until  seventy  times  seven; 
"aye,"  said  he,  "until  there  shall  be  a 
hundred  and  forty  and  four  thousand 
seventies  chosen,  if  the  work  of  the 
ministry  shall  require  it."  So  we  have 
continued  organizing  quorums  of  Sev- 
enty, to  labor  in  the  foreign  ministry, 
until  now  we  have  one  nundred  and 
forty-three  quorums  in  the  Church — a 
bodly  of  nearly  ten  thousand  men.  They 
are  special  witnesses  of  the  name  of 
Christ  in  all  the  world,  and  when  their 


76 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


numbers  are  considered,  together  with 
the  privilege  we  have  of  increasing 
them,  you  can  see  that  ample  pro- 
vision is  made,  in  this  respect,  for  the 
work  of  the  foreign  ministry. 

But  now  let  us  consider  their  organ- 
ization for  a  moment.  Sixty-three 
members  with  seven  presidents,  when 
the  quorum  is  complete,  constitute  a 
quorum.  Suppose  you  were  to  send  an 
entire  quorum  of  Seventy  bodily  into 
the  world — I  hope  that  will  be  done 
some  day — you  could  break  that  quor- 
um into  groups  of  ten.  You  could  send 
with  each  group  a  President.  It  should 
be  remembered  here  that  these  Presi- 
dents are  equal  in  authority.  The  coun- 
cil of  a  quorum  of  Seventy  is  made  up 
of  seven  Presidents,  not  one  President 
and  six  Counselors — but  of  seven  Pres- 
idents equal  in  authority.  For  the  sake 
of  order  in  administration,  however, 
the  right  of  initiative  and  presidency 
in  the  council  is  recognized  as  being 
vested  in  the  senior  member  by  ordina- 
tion, not  of  age.  And  this  principle  is 
observed  not  only  in  the  case  of  the 
first  or  senior  president,  but  all  down 
the  line  in  the  First  Council,  and  in  all 
quorum  councils  of  the  Seventies.  By 
this  simple  arrangement  all  confusion 
as  to  the  right  of  presidency  is  obvi- 
ated; for  no  sooner  does  the  Council 
of  a  quorum,  or  any  part  thereof, 
meet,  in  any  part  of  the  world  than 
each  President  knows  at  once  upon 
whom  the  responsibility  of  initiative, 
of  presidency,  rests.  But  to  return  to 
the  groups  of  ten  into  which  the  quor- 
um can  be  divided,  with  a  President 
for  each  group.  You  could  break 
each  group  of  ten  into  five  pairs,  and 
scatter  them  out  among  the  people,  to 
bear  effectual  witness  of  the  truth  of 
the  Gospel  under  the  provision  of  the 
law  of  the  Gospel;  for  it  is  the  law  of 
the  Gospel  that  the  Elders  should  trav- 
el two  and  two,  mainly  for  the  reason, 
I  suppose,  that  God  has  declared  that 
He  would  establish  his  word  in  the 
mouth  of  two  or  three  witnesses;  and 
it  is  good  when  bearing  testimony  to 
the  world  that  there  should  be  the  le- 
gal number  of  witnesses  provided  for 
in  the  law  of  God.  Moreover,  there  is 
a  very  much    needed  companionship 


and  sympathy  provided  for  when  the 
Elders  travel  two  and  two;  and  they 
are  a  protection  one  to  the  other.  You 
could  scatter  these  groups  of  ten  in 
one  or  more  states  or  countries;  and 
they  could  occasionally  meet  in  group 
conferences,  exchange  experiences, 
give  advice  and  counsel;  after  which 
refreshing  they  could  again  divide  into 
pairs,  scatter  and  so  continue  their 
ministry.  Occasionally  the  seven  groups 
of  the  quorum  could  be  brought  togeth- 
er in  general  quorum  conference,  to 
take  counsel  for  making  their  ministry 
more  and  ever  more  effectual:  to  re- 
adjust methods;  to  plan  new  cam- 
paigns; to  strengthen  each  other 
by  a  mutual  exchange  of  ex- 
periences and  sympathy;  and  do  what- 
ever else  their  combined  wisdom, helped 
by  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  would 
suggest  as  right  and  proper  to  do  in 
the  furtherance  of  their  high  aim  in 
bringing  to  pass  the  salvation  of  men. 
Such  are  the  possibilities  of  a  quorum 
of  Seventy.  It  may  become  a  veritable 
flying  column  of  witnesses  for  God, 
sweeping  the  earth  with  the  testimony 
of  Jesus,  and  calling  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth  unto  repentance!  Can  you 
think  of  this  beautiful  arrangement  for 
the  foreign  ministry  as  having  its  ori- 
gin in  the  alleged  epileptic  hallucina- 
tions of  man?  Such  a  conception  is 
palpably  absurd,  and  utterly  revolting 
to  reason. 

Turn  now  for  a  moment  to  the  home 
ministry  of  the  Church,  and  what  have 
you?  You  have  your  stake  organiza- 
tion, with  its  Presidency  of  three 
presiding  High  Priests,  aided  ir 
their  counsels  and  labors  by  the 
High  Council  of  the  stake,  con- 
sisting of  twelve  High  Priests.  This 
council  also  constitutes  a  judicial  body 
for  the  settlement  of  difficulties  that 
may  not  be  satisfactorily  adjusted  in  the 
Bishop's  courts.  It  is,  however,  an  ec- 
clesiastical court  of  original  as  well  as 
of  appellate  jurisdiction.  You  have  a 
Bishopric  in  the  respective  wards  of 
the  Church,  constituting  the  local  pres- 
idency of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  with 
quorums  of  Priests,  Teahers  and  Dea- 
cons to  aid  them  in  the  work  of  their 
ministry.      The  Deacons  take  care  of 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS. 


77 


the  house  of  the  Lord,  and  are  to  be  as- 
sistants to  the  Teachers  when  occasion 
requires.  The  Teachers  are  the  watch- 
men upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  and  it  is 
their  business  to  see  that  there  is  no 
iniquity  in  the  Church — no  backbiting, 
no  faultfinding-,  and  that  the  members 
attend  to  their  religious  duties.  The 
Priests'  duty  is  to  visit  the  homes  of 
the  people  and  instruct  them  in  the 
Gospel.  Parenthetically  I  might  say 
that  T  marvel  sometimes  that  the 
Saints  do  not  avail  themselves  of  this 
help  in  the  management  of  their  house- 
holds. Where  they  have  sons  or 
daughters  who  will  not  be  amenable  to 
the  instructions  of  parents,  the  priests 
with  very  great  propriety  could  be  in- 
vited to  meet  with  them  and  teach  the 
sublime  truths  of  the  Gospel.  In  addi- 
tion to  these  officers  of  the  wards  and 
the  stakes,,  there  is  in  each  stake  a 
quorum  of  High  Priests,  and  one  or 
more  quorums  of  Elders.  These  con- 
stitute the  standing  ministry  in  the 
stakes  of  Zion,  and  are  authorized  to 
teach  the  Gospel,  to  warn  all  men 
against  evil,  and  to  invite  and  per- 
suade all  men  to  come  unto  Christ. 
These  are  the  Drovisions  made  for  the 
home  ministry,  in  the  Church  organiza- 
tion proper.  Time  will  not  admit  ref- 
erence to  the  auxiliary  organizations — 
the  Sabbath  schools,  Improvement  as- 
sociations, Relief  societies,  Primary  so- 
cieties, and  Religion  classes.  But  from 
the  fireside  of  the  people  to  the  public 
assembly  of  worship;  from  the  cradle 
to  the  grave,  every  provision  is  made 
for  canning  on  the  work  of  the  min- 
istry, at  home,  instructing  the  Saints 
in  the  things  of  God,  inviting  all  to 
come  unto  Christ;  the  object  of  the 
Church  being  to  lift  to  higher,  and 
still  higher  levels  the  lives  of  the  Saints 
of  God,  until  they  shall  become  perfect 
men  and  women  in  Christ  Jesus  the 
Lord.  Such  are  the  arrangements,  in 
brief,  for  the  home  ministry. 

Notwithstanding  the  clear  distinc- 
tions between  the  foreign  ministry  and 
the  home  ministry,  the  lines  that  sep- 
arate them  may  be  crossed  on  occa- 
sion. You  remember  how  Paul  com- 
pares the  Church  of  Christ  to  the  body 
of  a  man,  and  insists  that  every  mem- 


ber and  every  organ  is  necessary 
to  the  perfect  working  of  that  organ- 
ism; that  the  head  cannot  say  to  the 
feetj  I  have  no  need  of  thee;  neither 
can  the  feet  say  to  the  head,  I  have 
no  need  of  thee;  nor  the  hand  to  the 
eye,  I  have  no  need  of  thee;  all  the 
members  of  the  body,  he  argues,  are 
necessary.  Now,  what  would  you  think 
of  a  body  that  possessed  a  right  hand 
and  left  hand,  yet  the  right  hand  would 
not  at  need  come  to  the  help  of  the 
left  hand;  or  the  left  hand  re- 
fuse to  come  to  the  aid  of  the 
right  hand?  You  expect  the  two  hands 
and  arms  of  a  man's  body  to  help  each 
other,  under  the  direction  of  the  in- 
telligence of  the  mind.  And  so  in  the 
Church  of  Christ.  The  home  minis- 
try and  the  foreign  ministry  cross  the 
line  of  separation  as  occasion  requires, 
and  come  to  the  assistance  of  one  an- 
other in  accomplishing  the  purposes 
of  God.  Sometimes  the  officers  who 
are  particularly  charged  with  the  fore- 
ign ministry  help  at  home;  the  home 
ministry  sometimes  help  in  the  foreign 
ministry;  but  all  work  harmoniously 
together. 

Rising  above  both  these  great  divi- 
sions of  the  Priesthood  stands,  as  the 
keystone  in  the  arch,  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church,  having  control  over  both 
departments,  and  directing  the  work 
of  God  in  all  the  world.  Their  juris- 
diction extends  to  every  corner  of  the 
earth.  No  branch  of  the  Church,  how- 
ever remote,  is  beyond  their  over- 
sight. No  Elder,  let  him  be  traveling 
where  he  will,  is  outside  the  pale  of 
their  authority.  Talk  of  catholicity 
being  one  of  the  marks  of  the  true 
Church  of  Christ,  as  our  Catholic 
friends  sometimes  do,  they  shall  find 
here  in  the  Church  of  Christ  a  catholi- 
city such  as  they  have  never  dreamed 
of.  The  Church  is  the  church  univer- 
sal; and  the  President  of  the  Church 
holds  universal  jurisdiction.  Moreover, 
as  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  of  the 
Church  he  is  the  source  through  which 
God  speaks,  not  only  to  this  people, 
not  only  to  the  Church  of  Christ,  but 
to  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth, 
and  God  will  hold  them  accountable 
for  the  use  they  make  of  the  words 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


He  shall  speak  through  His  appointed 
mouthpiece.  Do  not  think  that  this 
man's  authority  is  limited  to  this 
Church  alone.  All  the  inhabitants  of 
the  earth  are  children  of  God,  and  He 
will  deliver  His  word  unto  them 
through  His  prophet.  I  rather  like 
the  idea  that  all  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth  belong  to  us — they  are  God's 
children,  though  some  of  them  are  in 
rebellion  and  will  not  heed  the  com- 
mandments of  their  Father  just  now. 
But  here  in  the  Church  of  Christ  is  the 
center  of  ecclesiastical  government. 
Here  shine  forth  those  rays  of  light 
that  will  grow  brighter  and  brighter 
until  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth 
are  enlightened  by  them. 

Now,  what  do  you  think  of  this  ef- 
fort of  philosophy  to  account  for  "Mor- 
monism?"  How  insipid,  how  foolish, 
how  contemptible,  how  inadequate  are 
the  theories  of  men  to  account  for  even 
the  organization  of  this  Church!  The 
Church  is  its  own  witness!  As  the 
stars,  "singing  ever  as  they  shine,  pro- 
claim the  hand  that  made  them  is  di- 
vine," so,  too,  this  work,  the  restored 
Gospel— the  Church  of  Christ— pro- 
claims that  it  has  a  divine  origin,  and 
that  there  is  in  it  a  divine  power  work- 
ing out  the  purposes  of  God.  Then  let 
the  imitators  go  on.  Let  them  choose 
Apostles,  if  they  want  to — and  some  of 
them  have  them;  let  them  have  Seven- 
ties, if  they  want  to,  and  some  of  them 
have  them;  let  them  accent  this  doc- 
trine and  that  doctrine  until  they  shall 
have  the  complete  organization  and  the 
complete  doctrine  in  form,  if  they  want 
to;  but  there  is  one  thing  they  never 
can  get,  worlds  without  end,  and  that 
is  the  spirit  of  this  work,  which  gives 
it  life  and  power.  This  work  will  al- 
ways be  distinguished  from  the  works 
of  men,  in  that  there  will  be  imminent 
in  it  the  Spirit  of  God  working  His 
sovereign  will.  And  that  is  something 
they  cannot  imitate. 

My  brethren  and  sisters  I  rejoice  in 
the  truth.  I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  It  satisfies  me  complete- 
ly. It  responds  to  the  hungering  of  my 
spirit.  It  meets  the  demands  also  of 
my  intellectual  nature.  And  as  I  see 
the  growth  of  intelligence  among  men, 


an  increase  of  scientific  knowledge,  a 
broader  understanding  of  the  universe, 
a  comprehension  of  the  extent  and 
grandeur  of  the  works  of  God,  I  see  in 
"Mormonism"  that  which  rises  up  to 
meet  this  enlarged  knowledge  of  man. 
"Mormonism"  teaches  man  that  he  is 
a  child  of  God;  it  tells  him  that  he 
has  in  him  divine  elements  that  par- 
take of  the  nature  of  God;  that  he  may 
live  forever,  and  that  he  may  go  on 
from  one  degree  of  excellence  unto  an- 
other until  he  shall  attain  unto  some- 
thing that  is  truly  grand,  truly  great, 
worthy  of  a  God  to  give,  and  worthy  of 
a  Son  of  God  to  receive. 

I  rejoice  in  these  truths.  They  can- 
not be  accounted  for  by  any  theory 
that  refers  their  origin  to  hallucina- 
tions of  an  epileptic's  mind.  They  are 
too  substantial,  too  grand,  too  rational, 
too  sublime,  too  soul  inspiring,  to  have 
any  such  contemptible  origin.  Their 
own  intrinsic  value — their  own  self  evi- 
dent truth— the  institution  to  which 
they  are  committed  as  to  a  sacred  de- 
pository for  the  benefit  of  mankind — 
The  Church — all  this  proclaims  their  di- 
vine origin. 

May  God  seal  the  truths  of  the  Gos- 
pel upon  our  hearts,  and  make  them 
precious  to  us,  is  my  humble  prayer 
in  the  name  pf  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

While  1  realize,  as  you  all  do  doubt- 
less, that  it  may  be  wholly  unneces- 
sary for  me  to  say  what  I  am  going  to 
say,  yet  I  feel  prompted  to  say  it,  and 
let  it  go  for  what  it  is  worth.  I  have 
been  delighted  with  the  most  excellent 
discourse  that  we  have  listened  to;  but 
I  desire  to  say  that  it  is  a  wonderful 
revelation  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
especially  to  those  who  were  familiar 
with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  to  learn 
in  these  latter  days  that  he  was  an 
epileptic!  I  will  simply  remark,  God 
be  praised,  that  there  are  so  many  still 
living  who  knew  the  Prophet  Joseph 
well,  and  who  are  in  a  position  to  bear 
testimony  to  the  truth  that  no  such 
condition  ever  existed  in  the  man.  He 
was  never  troubled  with  epilepsy.  Of 
course,  this  may  be  unnecessary  to  say, 


PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 


79 


after  the  magnificent  arraignment 
made  by  Brother  Roberts  of  this  fal- 
lacious, foolish,  nonsensical  theory — 
this  "fried  froth" — gotten  up  by  vain 
philosophers  to  account  for  something 
they  would  like  to  destroy  from  off  the 
face  of  the  earth,  but  are  impotent  to 
do  it. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

Guide  us,  O  Thou  great  Jehovah. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  El- 
der Joseph  M.  Tanner. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

Tuesday,  Oct.  6,  2  p.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the 
Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word! 

What  more  can  He  say  than  to  you  He 

hath  said, 
You  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  hath 

fled. 

Opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Joseph  E.  Taylor. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam; 
Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 
each  nation, 
And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption 
will  come. 


PRESIDENT  JOHN  R.  WINDER. 

Distinction  between  gathering  of  the  Saints  and 
Salvation  Army  colonization — Law  of  tithing — 
Acceptance  of  principles  of  the  Gospel  would 
benefit  the  world— Sacredness  of  Temple  work. 

I  am  very  glad,  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  have  another  opportunity  of  meeting 
with  you  in  this  conference,  and  I  pray 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be 
abundantly  poured  out  upon  us  this 
afternoon,  as  it  has  been  thus  far. 

Two  or  three  things  were  mentioned 
yesterday  that  I  have  thought  about 
today.    One  was  in  relation  to  gather- 


ing. A  comparison  was  made  between 
the  gathering  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
and  the  colonization  or  gathering  of  the 
Salvation  Army.  It  struck  me  very 
forcibly  that  there  was  no  proper  com- 
parison between  them.  The  gathering 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  was  inaugurat- 
ed by  revelation,  through  Joseph  Smith 
the  Prophet.  It  is  part  and  parcel  of 
the  Gospel  of  this  last  dispensation,  and 
it  was  preached  in  a  very  early  day. 
I  remember  distinctly  that  when  I 
first  heard  the  Gospel  there  was  little 
said  about  the  gathering;  but,  it  was 
very  remarkable  that  every  person  who 
received  the  Gospel  began  to  prepare 
to  gather  with  the  Saints.  When  they 
received  the  Gospel  they  received  the 
spirit  of  gathering  with  it.  As  I  under- 
stand it,  the  Salvation  Army  is  simply 
colonizing.  Consequently,  I  think  there 
is  considerable  difference  between  the 
gathering  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and 
the  colonization  of  the  Salvation  Army. 

Another  matter  mentioned  was  in  re- 
lation to  tithing.  It  was  stated  that 
some  of  the  Christian  denominations 
are  commencing  to  pay  tithing.  Now, 
I  remember  that  as  long  ago  as  when  I 
was  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land, the  principle  of  tithing  was 
taught  in  that  church.  But,  there  was 
one  difference  between  the  tithing  col- 
lected there  and  the  tithing  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints:  one  was  collected  by 
law,  the  other  is  a  voluntary  contribu- 
tion. I  have  known  a  parson  to  send 
his  team  into  the  grain  field  and  take 
the  tenth  shock  of  grain  out  of  the  field, 
if  the  man  did  not  pay  the  money.  I 
have  seen  this  done  myself.  So  it  is 
nothing  particularly  new  to  them, 
though  it  may  be  to  the  Methodists.  I 
look  upon  the  tithing  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  as  entirely  different  to  that 
practised  by  other  denominations.  The 
principle  of  tithing  came  to  us  by  reve- 
lation, the  same  as  did  all  the  ordin- 
ances of  the  Church. 

Again,  while  the  brethren  were  speak- 
ing of  these  organizations  accepting 
some  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  it 
occurred  to  me  that  it  would  not  be  a 
bad  thing  if  they  accepted  every  one  of 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  provided 
they  practised  them,  because  it  would 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  the  effect  to  better  the  condition 
of  all  the  people  in  the  world.  I  have 
the  same  opinion  regarding  that  as  I 
have  in  relation  to  the  ordinances  in 
the  temples.  It  has  been  said  that 
things  are  taught  in  the  temples  which 
cannot  be  spoken  of  outside.  I  want  to 
tell  you — and  you  who  have  been  there 
know  what  I  say  is  the  truth — that 
every  principle  taught  there  is  of  a 
holy  and  sacred  character.  They  are 
all  calculated  to  make  people  better,  to 
make  better  fathers,  better  mothers, 
and  better  citizens  of  the  United  States. 
This  statement  could  be  verified  by 
thousands  in  this  congregation.  So  true 
is  this  that  one  president  of  a  stake 
has  commenced  to  organize  the  people 
in  his  stake  to  go  to  the  temple  and 
work  for  the  dead;  and  one  reason  he 
assigns  for  doing  this  is  that  the  people 
who  attend  to  ordinance  work  in  the 
temple  make  better  members  of  a  ward, 
better  fathers  and  mothers,  and  better 
citizens;  consequently  he  wants  all  the 
people  in  his  stake  to  go  to  the  temple, 
and  partake  of  the  blessings  and  spirit 
of  that  holy  house.  I  think  this  is  an 
example  that  might  well  be  followed 
by  other  stakes  of  Zion,  where  they 
are  so  situated  that  they  can  do  it.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  shortly  be- 
fore his  death,  that  the  one  thing  that 
was  exercising  his  mind  more  than 
any  other  was  in  relation  to  the  ord- 
inances for  the  dead.  It  is  true,  a  con- 
siderable work  has  been  and'  is  being 
done  in  our  temples.  About  2,490,000 
ordinances  have  been  performed  in  all 
the  temples,  and  about  78,000  have  been 
performed  during  the  past  year  in  the 
Salt  Lake  Temple.  But  we  can  do  more. 
If  this  is  as  important  as  the  Prophet 
Joseph  said  it  was  surely  it  is  our  duty 
to  attend  to  it,  and  not  put  it  off  when 
we  have  the  opportunity.  This  is  a 
matter  worthy  the  consideration  of  all 
the  presidents  of  stakes.  Let  them  en- 
courage their  people  to  go  to  the  house 
of  the  Lord,  and  redeem  the  dead. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  all  our 
labors,  and  may  we  so  live  before 
the  Lord  that  we  may  always  have  a 
claim  upon  His  promised  blessings,  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Comprehensive  redemption  —  Salvation  include8 
dead  as  well  as  livng — Sacredness  of  work  done 
in  Temples. 

The  subject  Brother  Winder  alluded 
to — work  for  the  dead — is  a  very  inter- 
esting one.  It  is  a  principle  peculiar  to 
the  Gospel  as  preached  by  us.  There 
are  churches  whose  members  believe  in 
praying  for  the  dead;  but  we  believe  in 
working  for  the  dead.  It  was  a  new 
thing  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  laid 
this  principle  before  the  world.  The 
Christian  world  had  been  taught  for 
hundreds  of  years  that  death  ends  all 
with  man;  that  if  he  did  not  believe 
in  Christ  at  his  death  there  was  no 
hope  for  him.  When  you  consider  the 
small  number  of  the  inhabitants  of  the 
world  who  have  heard  of  the  name  of 
Christ,  and  then  think  of  all  the  rest 
being  damned  because  they  did  not 
obey  that  which  they  had  never  heard, 
the  inconsistency  and  injustice  of  such 
a  doctrine  as  that  is  very  apparent. 
The  Gospel  of  Christ  was  formulated  in 
love.  God  is  love.  He  loved  His  chil- 
dren so  much  that  He  sent  His  Only 
Begotten  Son,  who  gave  Himself  a  sac- 
rifice for  the  sins  of  all.  Jesus  came 
and  filled  His  mission.  His  name  has 
been  preached  to  the  nations  for  cen- 
turies. Yet  the  Christian  world  today 
does  not  constitute  a  third  of  the  whole 
population  of  the  globe.  The  other  two- 
thirds  do  not  believe  in  Christ,  and 
when  they  die,  according  to  some,  their 
chance  of  salvation  is  gone.  We  believe 
that  the  Gospel  is  much  broader  than 
this.  We  believe  that  the  plan  of  sal- 
vation, formulated  before  this  earth 
rolled  into  existence,  was  framed  by 
heavenly  beings  who  could  see  the  fut- 
ure, and  who  understood  what  would 
take  place,  and  were  able  to  provide  for 
the  salvation  of  all  who  should  inhabit 
this  earth.  They  did  so.  We  have 
learned,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
that  there  is  a  possibility  for  those  who 
have  departed,  to  hear  the  truth,  to 
believe  in  God  and  in  His  Son,  to  re- 
pent, and  to  have  the  ordinances  of  the 
Gospel  performed  for  them.  I  know 
that  many  have  held  that  these  doc- 
trines are  blasphemous;  but  they  are 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


81 


not.  They  are  principles  that  give 
hope  unto  men.  You  have  heard  per- 
haps of  the  Dutch  chief  who  was 
converted  by  the  Christians,  and, 
as  he  was  going  to  step  into  the  waters 
of  baptism,  he  asked  what  had 
become  of  his  father  and  his  forefath- 
ers. The  priest  who  was  to  baptize  him, 
being  a  little  more  zealous  than  wise 
perchance,  told  him  they  had  all  gone 
to  hell.  He  stepped  back  and  said, 
"Then  I  want  to  go  where  they  have 
gone."  Now,  those  who  hear  the  Gos- 
pel today  may  ask  where  their  fore- 
fathers have  gone,  and  it  can  be  said 
to  them,  "They  all  shall  hear  the  name 
of  Christ,  for  the  Gospel  will  be 
preached  unto  them.  If  they  have  not 
heard  it  here,  they  will  hear  it  yonder; 
and  every  knee  shall  bow,  and  every 
tongue  shall  confess  His  name."  Re- 
member, it  is  the  spirit  in  man  that 
hears,  and  understand?,  and  wills. 
This  tabernacle  of  clay  is  not  capable 
of  these  functions.  The  spirit  uses  the 
different  senses  to  obtain  perceptions 
from  the  outer  world.  And  when  the 
spirit,  after  leaving  the  body,  goes 
into  the  spirit  world,  it  can  still  think, 
and  will,  and  reason.  The  intelligent 
part  of  man  does  not  die.  At  some 
time  or  other,  those  authorized  to 
preach  the  Gospel  will  minister  unto 
the  spirits  in  the  spirit  world  and  lay 
before  them  the  glorious  principles  of 
truth.  When  the  thief  on  the  cross 
asked  the  Savior  to  remember  him 
when  He  came  into  His  kingdom,  Jesus 
saw  that  the  man  was  penitent,  that  he 
had  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite 
spirit,  and  he  comforted  him  with  the 
promise  that  "today  shalt  thou  be  with 
me  in  paradise."  I  do  not  think  He 
held  out  a  fallacious  hope  to  this  man 
when  He  said  that  he  should  be  with 
Him  in  paradise  that  day.  I  believe 
that  when  the  Savior's  spirit  left  His 
body  hanging  upon  the  tree,  it  went 
into  paradise,  and  He  gladdened  the 
hearts  of  the  spirits  there  with  the 
glorious  tidings  that  He  had  conquered, 
that  He  had  given  His  life  for  their 
redemption,  and  that  everything  they 
had  done  in  their  worship  pointing  for- 
ward to  His  great  sacrifice  had  been 


fulfilled,  thereby  giving  validity  to  their 
acts. 

What  joy  must  have  filled  them 
when  they  heard  this!  But  He  did  not 
visit  them  alone.  He  went  further 
into  the  spirit  world.  He  visited  the 
spirits  in  prison  who  had  once  heard 
and  rejected  the  Gospel.  He  preach- 
ed the  Gospel  unto  them,  so  Peter 
tells  us.  Peter  also  gives  us  to  under- 
stand who  they  were.  They  were  the 
antediluvians  who  rejected  the  message 
of  salvation  as  preached  by  the  Gospel- 
preacher  Noah.  These  heard  the  voice 
of  the  Savior  in  the  spirit  world.  No 
doubt  they  had  ample  time  to  con- 
sider and  repent  of  their  acts,  and  were 
longing  for  the  time  spoken  of  by  Isa- 
iah, when  the  prison  doors  should  be 
opened  and  the  captives  should  go  free. 
Christ  did  this,  according  to  Peter's 
(testimony.  Why  did  He  preach  to 
them?  Some  have  held  that  He  did  so 
to  tantalize  them  over  what  they  had 
lost.  Oh,  no!  That  was  not  the  mis- 
sion of  Jesus.  He  preached  glad  tid- 
ings unto  them,  and  He  opened  their 
prison  doors.  An  opportunity  was  giv- 
en in  the  spirit  world  for  them 
to  receive  and  obey  the  Gospel.  So 
with  our  forefathers,  who  died  without 
a  knowledge  of  the  purposes  of  God. 
They  will  have  a  chance  to  hear  and 
receive  the  Gospel. 

Jesus,  in  His  interview  with  Nicode- 
mus,  laid  down  the  law  which  must  be 
obeyed  by  all  who  shall  enter  the  king- 
dom of  heaven.  "Except  a  man  be 
born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he 
cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God." 
In  other  words,  the  law  was  laid  down 
in  the  eternal  councils  that  baptism  is 
necessary  to  salvation.  But  the  spir- 
its cannot  be  baptized.  How,  there- 
fore, can  they  obey  this  law?  It  must 
be  borne  in  mind  that  Jesus  extended 
this  law  to  all.  Some  have  gone  so 
far  as  to  say  that  it  includes  little 
children  also;  but  the  Lord  has  reveal- 
ed unto  us  that  children,  before  they 
arrive  at  the  years  of  accountability, 
are  without  sin,  and  therefore  it  is  noi 
necessary  to  baptize  them,  baptism  be- 
ing for  the  remission  of  sin.  On  one  oc- 
casion Jesus  held  up  a  little  child  and 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


said  unto  His  disciples,  "iGxcept  ye  be 
converted,  and  become  as  little  chil- 
dren, ye  shall  not  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven."  On  another  occasion, 
in  speaking  of  children,  He  said,  'Of 
such  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  But 
after  they  arrive  at  the  years  of  ac- 
countability they  must  obey  this  law. 
This  law  applying  to  all  men,  how  shall 
those  who  have  died  obey  It?  ^-od.  m 
His  mercy,  has  provided  that  others 
may  perform  this  ordinance  for  them 
in  the  flesh,  and  this  vicarious  work  is 
attended  to  in  temples.  "We  thank  the 
Lord  for  this  glorious  doctrine.  It 
raises  our  hopes  for  those  whom  we 
love  and  who  did  not  obey  the  require- 
ments of  the  Gospel  in  life.  We  re- 
joice that  they  can  have  the  oppor- 
tunity in  the  other  life.  But  those  in 
this  mortal  life  must  be  baptized  for 
them. 

This  is  not  a  new  doctrine.  Paul 
understood  it,  and  used  it  in  his  day 
as  a  strong  argument  in  favor  of  the 
resurrection.  Of  what  use  would  it  be 
to  baptize  anyone  if  there  were  no 
resurrection?  Read  the  29th  verse  of 
the  15th  chapter  of  First  Corinthians: 

"Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are 
baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise 
not  at  all?  Why  are  they  then  bap- 
tized for  the  dead?" 

When  in  England  I  attended  the  fun- 
eral of  a  member  of  the  English  church 
and  heard  the  officiating  clergyman 
read  the  beautiful  chapter  containing 
this  verse,  I  wondered  what  they 
thought  of  that  verse.  But  they  read  it 
and  never  commented  upon  it.  I  see, 
though,  that  Dean  Farrar  in  his  book 
on  "The  Early  Days  of  Christianity," 
says,  "If  Christ  preached  to  dead  men 
who  were  once  disobedient  then  Scrip- 
ture shows  us  that  the  moment  of  death 
does  not  necessarily  involve  a  final  and 
hopeless  torment  for  every  sinful  soul." 
Now,  we  believe  that  the  law  laid  down 
by  Jesus  to  Nicodemus  must  be  obeyed, 
and  that  men  in  the  flesh  can  obey  it 
by  proxy  for  those  who  have  departed. 
For  this  reason  we  have  built  temples. 
Tou  may  say  we  have  only  a  small 
number  of  temples,  that  very  few  can 
enter  there,  and  that  the  myriads  of 
spirits  in  the  spirit  world  cannot  be 


reached  by  the  mere  handful  of  people 
who  are  performing  vicarious  work 
here  on  the  earth.  In  answer  to  this 
I  will  say  we  believe  there  will  be  ample 
time  in  the  future.  We  do  all  that  is  in 
our  power  while  God  gives  us  days  to 
live  in,  and  we  know  there  are  many 
more  going  to  join  the  ranks  of  the 
Saints.  The  Gospel  will  spread,  this 
land  will  be  the  land  of  Zion,  temples 
will  be  built  in  various  localities,  from 
one  end  of  it  to  the  other,  and  the 
Saints  of  God  living  in  the  Millennium 
will  have  this  precious  labor  to  per- 
form. Then  the  veil,  I  believe,  will  be 
much  thinner  between  the  spirit  world 
and  this;  and  we  will  work  for  the 
dead,  not  only  in  faith  that  those  for 
whom  we  labor  will  accept  the  Gospel, 
but  with  an  actual  knowledge  that  they 
are  longing  for  the  work  to  be  done.  I 
look  upon  the  work  for  the  dead  as  a 
most  glorious  principle. 

While  I  am  speaking  about  the  Tem- 
ples, I  want  to  make  a  declaration  here 
before  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
We  have  been  accused  of  entering  into 
covenants  in  those  holy  edifices  which 
are  unpatriotic  and  against  our  gov- 
ernment. Now.  I  declare  here  solemnly 
before  you  that  there  is  not  a  word  of 
truth  in  it;  that  nobody  is  called  upon 
to  take  oath  or  covenant  that  militates 
against  our  government  in  the  least  de- 
gree. On  the  other  hand,  I  will  say 
that  those  who  obey  the  covenants  they 
enter  into  there  will  be  better  citizens 
because  of  it.  They  cannot  help  it,  be- 
cause they  make  covenants  there  to 
serve  the  Lord,  to  do  right  unto  their 
neighbors,  to  live  pure  lives;  and  when 
men  do  this  they  will  be  the  best  citi- 
zens. I  suppose  there  are  thousands  be- 
fore me  in  this  Tabernacle  who  have 
gone  into  our  temples,  and  they  know 
it  is  true  what  I  say.  I  would  not  dare 
to  say  this  before  you,  if  it  were  not 
so.  I  hear  that  sectarian  organiza- 
tions are  going  to  bring  up  the  alleged 
endowment  oath  against  Senator 
Smoot,  arguing  that  he  is  not  capa- 
ble of  giving  allegiance  to  the  govern- 
ment on  account  of  the  oath  he  is  said 
to  have  taken  in  the  Temple.  First, 
there  is  no  oath  given  or  taken;  but 
sacred  covenants  are  entered  into;  and 


PATRIARCH  JOHN  SMITH. 


83 


secondly,  there  is  not  one — I  say  it 
again — that  is  against  the  government 
or  against  a  man  being  patriotic  and 
sustaining  the  laws  of  his  country. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  well  to 
be  present  with  you.  I  have  rejoiced 
in  this  conference.  I  hope  the  spirit 
of  it  will  go  with  us  to  our  different 
places  of  abode,  and  that  the  spirit  of 
Zion  may  grow,  and  union  and  pros- 
perity prevail  amongst  the  Saints.  I 
ask  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PATRIARCH  JOHN  SMITH. 

A  reference  to  the  past — Encouragement  to  faith- 
fulness— The  youth  should  prepare  for  the  work 
of  the  ministry. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  with 
peculiar  feelings  that  I  stand  before 
you  on  this  occasion.  For  one  thing,  it 
-is  rather  unexpected  to  me.  I  feel  to 
ask  for  your  faith  and  prayers,  that 
something  may  be  brought  to  my  mind 
that  shall  edify  you  and  myself.  I  have 
listened  attentively  to  the  remarks 
made  by  those  who  have  addressed  us 
during  this  conference,  and  I  bean  tes- 
timony that  what  has  been  said  to  us 
is  true  and  profitable.  Those  who  have 
talked  to  us  have  done  so  under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  The 
counsels  they  have  given  to  us  are 
good,  and  should  sink  deep  into  our 
hearts,  and  cause  us  to  profit  by  what 
we  have  heard. 

In  looking  at  this  congregation,  my 
mind  reverts  to  early  youth.  In  my 
association  with  the  Church,  from  its 
early  history  up  to  the  present,  I  have 
seen  vast  changes  among  the  people. 
When  I  look  around  and  try  to  discover 
those  who  were  companions  of  my 
youth,  I  find  they  are  getting  very 
scarce.  I  met  one  man  this  morning 
who  was  a  member  of  the  Church  in 
Kirtland,  Ohio.  He  is  the  first  one  I 
have  met  for  a  long  time.  Very  few 
remain  of  those  who  were  my  com- 
panions in  Nauvoo,  and  I  sometimes 
become  lonesome,  because  the  faces  of 
those  I  was  acquainted  with  then  have 
faded  away.  In  their  stead,  others 
have  become  prominent,  and  as  has 
been  predicted,  we  have  become  a  srreat 
and  mighty  people  in  the  valleys  of  tht, 
mountains. 


I  want  to  encourage  the  Saints  to 
faithfulness,  and  diligence  in  the  per- 
formance of  duty.    Realizing  that  our 
time  in  this    probation    is    short,  we 
should  strive  to  perform  the  labors  and 
duties  enjoined  upon  us  in  that  way 
and  manner  that  shall   meet   the  ap- 
proval of  our  Father  in  heaven.  I  often 
hear  people  speak  of  a  hobby.  If  I  have 
one,  it  is  to  exhort  my  young  brethren 
especially  to  faithfulness,  to  diligence 
in  duty,  to  listen  to  and  be  guided  by 
the  whisperings  of  the  Spirit,  and  to 
acquire  learning  and  information  that 
will  prepare  them  for  the  duties  of  the 
future.    The  Gospel  must  be  preached 
to  all  nations,    kindred,    tongues  and 
people,  and  our  boys  must  learn  their 
duty  and  prepare  their  minds  for  that 
important  work.    We  understand  that 
the  greater  the  harvest,  the  more  har- 
vest hands  we  need.   I  exhort  the  boys 
particularly  to  prepare  themselves  for 
the  ministry;  to  attend    Mutual  Im- 
provement   associations    and  schools; 
get  their  lessons  properly,  and  be  ready 
when  they  are  called  to  go  on  missions 
on  this  continent,  or  to  the  other  na- 
tions of  the  earth,  or  upon  the  islands 
of  the  sea,  that  they  may  go  with  an 
understanding  of  what  they  are  sent 
for,  and  be  qualified  to  carry  the  mes- 
sage of  life  and  salvation  unto  all  those 
who  will  listen.    In  this  Church  every 
person  has  certain  duties  to  perform. 
We  understand  that  we    should  pay 
tithes  and  offerings,  and  attend  to  our 
prayers.      We    also    understand  the 
meaning  of    the    old  adage,    Do  unto 
others  as  we  would  they  should  do  unto 
us.    Let  us  act  according  to  our  under- 
standing, that  we  may  fill  our  mission 
upon  the  earth  in  honor  before  God. 

May  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  attend  all  Israel.  May  He  con- 
tinue to  guide  us  in  the  true  path,  and 
fit  and  prepare  us  for  every  event  of 
His  providence,  and,  when  we  have  fin- 
ished our  course,  may  we  be  worthy  of 
the  blessings  He  has  in  store  for  His 
people,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

Sister  Lottie  Owen  sang  sweetly  the 
song  entitled: 

"Oh,  Dry  Those  Tears." 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 
Latter-day  Saints  a  free  people. 

We  will  now  present  before  the  con- 
ference the  names  of  the  general  au- 
thorities of  the  Church.with  the  earnest 
desire  that  all  the  members  of  the 
Church  present,  who  by  reason  of  their 
good  standing  before  the  Lord  are  en- 
titled to  the  privilege,  will  express  their 
will  according  to  the  God-given  agency 
that  every  man  in  the  world  enjoys.and 
which  is  not  lessened,  but  rather  in- 
creased, in  all  those  who  have  made 
covenant  with  God  by  sacrifice  and 
through  obedience  to  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel.  The  freedom  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  has  never  been  curtailed  or 
lessened  one  whit  by  their  becoming 
members  of  the  Church  of  Christ. 
Rather  has  it  been  enlarged.  There 
are  no  freer  people  upon  the  face  of 
the  earth  today  than  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  They  are  bound  to  the  Church 
by  no  ties  or  strings,  but  their  own 
conviction  of  the  truth.  And  whenever 
a  man  makes  up  his  mind  that  he  has 
had  enough  of  what  is  called  "Mormon- 
ism,"  all  he  has  to  do  is  to  make  it 
known  and  we  will  sever  the  bond  that 
unites  him  with  the  body,  and  let  him 
go  his  own  way,  only  bearing  toward 
him  the  feeling  of  sympathy  and  of  true 
brotherly  kindness,  and  wishing  him 
still  the  mercies  of  God.  We  will  cry, 
Father.,  have  mercy  upon  him,  because 
he  knows  not  what  he  is  doing.  For 
when  a  man  denies  the  truth,  when  he 
departs  from  the  right  way,  when  he 
rejects  the  right  of  God  to  counsel  in 
the  affairs  of  men,  he  is  either  ig- 
norant or  wilfully  wicked,  and  it  only 
excites  our  pity  for  him.  As  the  Sa- 
vior cried  upon  the  cross,  so  will  we 
cry  in  the  same  spirit,  Father,  forgive 
him;  have  mercy  upon  him;  for  he 
knows  not  what  he  does.  Therefore, 
we  expect  only  those  to  vote  at  this 
time  who  are  members  of  the  Church  in 
good  standing;  but  all  such  we  do  ex- 
pect to  vote,  according  to  their  own 
free  will,  whether  it  be  yea  or  nay. 
However,  we  wish  it  distinctly  under- 
stood that  no  questions  upon  these  mat- 


ters will  be  discussed  in  this  confer- 
ence; for  this  is  not  the  place  to  dis- 
cuss questions  of  difference  or  of  feel- 
ing that  we  may  possess  one  towards 
another.  Still  we  can  manifest  our 
approval  or  our  disapproval  by  the  up- 
lifted hand;  and  if  there  are  any  dis- 
approvals, we  will  have  them  heard  and 
adjusted  later  on,  but  not  here. 

THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

of  the  Church  were  presented  by  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  to  be  voted  upon 
by  the  conference,  as  follows: 

Joseph  F.  Smith  as  Propnet,  Seer  and 
Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

John  R.  Winder,  as  first  counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency. 

Anthon  H.  Lund  as  second  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

As  President  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  Francis  M.  Lyman. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of  Twelve 
Apostles,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  John 
Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  John  W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W. 
Merrill  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abraham 
O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Ciawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  Hyrum  M.  Smith,  and  George 
A.  Smith. 

John  Smith,  as  Presiding  Patriarch 
of  the  Church. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the 
Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers 
and  Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies — 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  George  Rey- 
nolds, Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston,  as  Presiding 
Bishop,  with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  Or- 
rin  P.  Miller  as  his  first  and  second 
counselors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  trustee-in-trust 
for  the  body  of  religious  worshipers 
known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

As  members  of  the  General  Church 
Board  of  Education,  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
James  Sharp,  John  Nicholson,  George 


GENERAL,  AUTHORITIES. 


85 


H.  Brimhall,  Rudger  Clawson,  Joseph 
M.  Tanner,  and  John  R.  Winder,  with 
Arthur  "Winter,  as  secretary. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  historian 
and  general  Church  recorder. 

Andrew  Jenson,  O.  P.  Whitney,  A. 
M.  Musser  and  Brigham  H.  Roberts, 
assistant  historians. 

John  Nicholson,  as  clerk  of  the  con- 
ference. 

Evan  Stephens,  as  leader  and  conduc- 
tor of  the  Tabernacle  choir;  Robert  T. 
McEwan,  as  first  counselor  and  secre- 
tary; George  C.  Smith,  as  second  coun- 
selor and  treasurer;  John  J.  McClellan, 
as  organist;  and  all  the  members  of  the 
choir. 

RELIEF  SOCIETY. 

General  Officers  and  General  Board  of 
the  Relief  Society,  Bathsheba  W. 
Smith,  general  president;  Annie  T. 
Hyde,  first  counselor;  Ida  S.  Dusen- 
berry,  second  counselor;  Emmeline  B. 
Wells,  general  secretary;  Clarissa  S. 
Williams,  general  treasurer. 

Board— Jane  S.  Richards,  Sarah  J. 
Cannon,  M.  Isabella  Horne,  Romania 
B.  Pratt,  Susan  Grant,  Martha  A.  Can- 
non, Emma  S.  Woodruff,  Julina  L. 
Smith,  Emily  S.  Richards,  Ellis  R. 
Shipp,  Julia  P.  M.  Farnsworth,  Eliza- 
beth J.  Stevenson,  Phebe  Young 
Beatie,  Carrie  S.  Thomas,  Alice  Mer- 
rilll  Horne,  Annie  Wells  Cannon,  Pris- 
cilla  P.  Jennings,  Margaret  A.  Caine. 

ADDITIONAL  MISSIONARIES. 

Harriet  Ann  Badger,  Sophia  T.  Nut- 
tall,  Mary  T.  Smith,  Mary  A.  C.  Lam- 
bert, Rebecca  E.  Little,  Elizabeth  S. 
Wilcox,  Leila  Merrill  Allen,  Priscilla 
Smith,  Hattie  B.  Harker. 

RELIEF  SOCIETY  NURSES'  CLASS. 

Emma  A.  Empey,  superintendent; 
Margaret  C.  Roberts,  instructor; 
Phebe  Young  Beatie,  corresponding 
secretary  and  treasurer. 

OFFICERS  OF  THE  DESERET  SUN- 
DAY SCHOOL  UNION. 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  general  superintend- 
ent; George    Reynolds,  first  assistant 
general  superintendent;  Joseph  M.  Tan- 


ner, second  assistant  general  superin- 
tendent. 

MEMBERS  OF  THE  BOARD. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  George  Reynolds, 
Joseph  M.  Tanner,  Joseph  W.  Sum- 
merhays,  Levi  W.  Richards,  Francis 
M.  Lyman,  Heber  J.  Grant,  George 
Teasdale,  Hugh  J.  Cannon,  Andrew 
Kimball,  John  W.  Taylor,  L.  John 
Nuttall,  James  W.  Ure,  John  F.  Ben- 
nett, John  M.  Mills,  William  D.  Owen, 
Seymour  B.  Young,  George  D.  Pyper, 
Henry  Peterson,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
John  R.  Winder,  James  E.  Talmage, 
George  M.  Cannon,  Horace  Cummings, 
Abraham  O.  Woodruff. 

George  D.  Pyper,  general  secretary; 
George  Reynolds,  general  treasurer; 
William  A.  Morton,  business  manager. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  editor  Juvenile  In- 
structor; George  Reynolds  and  Joseph 
M.  Tanner,  assistant  editors;  George  D. 
Pyper,  business  manager. 

Y.  M.  M.  I.  A. 

Officers  of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual 
Improvement  associations:  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  general  superintendent;  Heber 
J.  Grant,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  assist- 
ants; Thomas  Hull, secretary  and  treas- 
urer; Evan  Stephens,  music  director. 

Aids:  Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Hen- 
ry Smith,  Matthias  F.Cowley,  Abraham 
O.  Woodruff,  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Junius 
F.  Wells,  Milton  H.  Hardy,  Rodney  C. 
Badger,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Edward 
H.  Anderson,  Douglas  M.  Todd,  Thom- 
as Hull,  Nephi  L.  Morris,  Willard  Done, 
Le  Roi  C.  Snow,  Frank  Y.  Taylor,  Rud- 
gier  Clawson,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin,  Reed  Smoot,  Bryant  S. 
Hinckley,  Moses  W.  Taylor,  Brigham 
F.  Grant,  Henry  S.  Tanner,  Hyrum  M. 
Smith,  William  B.  Dougall,  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Jr.,  Ovando  C.  Beebe,  Lewis  T. 
Cannon. 

Y.  L.  M.  I.  A. 

Officers  of  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Im- 
provement associations— Elmina  S. 
Taylor,  president;  Maria  Y.  Dougall, 
first  counselor;  Martha  H.  Tingey,  sec- 
ond counselor;  Ann  M.  Cannon,  secre- 
tary and  treasurer;  Mae  T.  Nystrom, 


S6 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


corresponding  secretary;  Joan  Camp- 
bell, recording  secretary. 

Aids— Adella  W.  Eardley,  Sarah  Ed- 
dington,  Agnes  Campbell,  Lillie  T. 
Freeze,  Susa  Young  Gattes,  Minnie  J. 
Snow,  May  B.  Talmage,  Emma  God- 
dard,  Rose  W.  Bennett,  Alice  K.  Smith, 
Elizabeth  C.  McCune,  Ruth  M.  Fox,  Ju- 
lia M.  Brixen,  Helen  W.  Woodruff,  Au- 
gusta W.  Grant,  Mary  A.  Freeze. 

Alice  C.  Tuddenham,  choir  leader; 
Mattie  Read,  organist;  Lizzie  Thomas, 
assistant  organist. 

PRIMARY  BOARD. 

Members  of  the  general  board  of  Pri- 
mary associations — Louie  B.  Felt,  pres- 
ident; Lillie  T.  Freeze,  first  counselor; 
Josephine  R.  West,  second  counselor; 
May  Anderson,  secretary  and  treasur- 
er; Olive  L.  Derbidge,  assistant  secre- 
tary; Euphemia  I.  Burnham,  recording 
secretary. 

Aids — Aurelia  S.  Rogers,  L.  Lulu 
Greene  Richards,  Isabelle  S.  Ross,  Ca- 
milla C.  Cobb,  Edna  L.  Smith,  Eliza 
Slade  Bennion,  Fanny  Woolley,  Jose- 
phine G.  Smith,  Ida  B.  Smith. 

RELIGION  CLASS  BOARD. 

Members  of  Religion  Class  Board— 
Anthon  H.  Lund,  general  superintend- 
ent; Rudger  Clawson,  first  assistant 
general  superintendent;  Joseph  M.  Tan- 
ner, second  assistant  general  superin- 
tendent; L.  John  Nuttall,  general  sec- 
retary; John  M.  Mills,  Henry  Peterson, 
Horace  Cummings,  Joseph  W.  Summer- 
hays,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Hyrum  M. 
Smith,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  Louis  A.  Kelsch,  John  H.  Ev- 
ans. 

Board  of  Examiners  of  Church 
Schools— Jos.  M.  Tanner,  Benj.  Cluff, 
Jr.,  George  H.  Brimhall,  Joshua  H. 
Paul,  James  Linford,  Jos.  M.  Tanner, 
general  superintendent  of  Church 
schools. 

EUROPEAN  MISSION. 

Elder  Heber  J.  Grant  to  succeed  El- 
der Francis  M.  Lyman  as  president  of 
the  European  mission. 

All  the  voting  was  unanimously  in 
the  affirmative. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

How  the  will  of  God  can  be  known— All  offices, 
callings  and  authority  embraced  in  the  holy 
Melchisedek  Priesthood— Material  affairs  of  the 
Church. 

If  I  regret  anything  at  all,  it  is  that 
we  have  not  time  to  hear  the  testi- 
monies of  many  more  of  the  brethren 
who  are  in  attendance  at  this  confer- 
ence. Nothing  would  delight  me  more 
than  to  have  the  privilege  of  remaining 
here  and  listening  to  a  score  or  two  of 
presidents  of  stakes,  presidents  of  mis- 
sions, and  other  prominent  men  who 
are  at  this  conference  representing  the 
different  interests  of  the  Church.  I  re- 
gret more  than  anything  I  can  think 
of  in  connection  with  our  conferences, 
that  we  do  not  have  more  time,  and 
that  we  cannot  hear  from  more  of  our 
brethren.  But  I  think  the  time  so  far 
has  been  well  employed,  and  I  trust 
that  all  that  has  been  said,  all  the 
counsel  that  has  been  given,  the  ex- 
hortations that  have  been  offered  and 
the  admonitions  that  have  been  voiced, 
will  be  blessed  and  sanctified  through 
the  spirit  of  truth  to  the  good  and  en- 
couragement of  all  who  have  heard 
them. 

The  one  thing  now  that  I  desire  to 
impress  upon  the  minds  of  my  breth- 
ren of  the  Holy  Priesthood  is  that  we 
should  live  so  near  to  the  Lord, 
be  so  humble  in  our  spirits,  so 
tractable  and  pliable,  under  the  influ- 
ence of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that  we  nvill 
be  able  to  know  the  mind  and  will  of 
the  Father  concerning  us  as  individuals 
and  as  officers  in  the  Church  of  Christ 
under  all  circumstances.  And  when  we 
live  so  that  we  can  hear  and  understand 
the  whisperings  of  the  still  small  voice 
of  the  Spirit  of  God,  let  us  do  whatso- 
ever that  Spirit  directs,  without  fear 
of  the  consequences.  It  does  not  make 
any  difference  whether  it  meet  the 
minds  of  carpers  or  critics,  or  of  the 
enemies  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  or  not. 
Is  it  agreeable  to  the  will  of  the  Lord? 
Is  it  compatible  with  the  spirit  of  the 
great  latter-day  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged?  Is  the  end  aimed  at  likely 
to  advance  the  Church  and  to  strength- 
en it  in  the  earth?  If  its  trend  is  in 
that  direction,  let  us  do  it,  no  matter 
what  men  may  say  or  think. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


I  know,  as  I  know  that  I  live,  that 
this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  When  I  say  this, 
I  say  it  with  a  full  understanding1  of 
the  meaning  of  the  term.  It  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  not  the 
church  of  man.  The  Lord  laid  the 
foundations  of  it.  It  was  He  who  in- 
spired the  boy  Prophet,  Joseph  Smith, 
and  gave  to  him  wisdom  and  under- 
standing to  organize  the  councils  of  the 
Priesthood  and  to  establish  His  Church 
upon  the  foundation  of  prophets,  apos- 
tles, evangelists,  and  inspired  men.  It 
was  the  Lord  Jesus  who  restored  the 
Holy  Melchisedek  Priesthood,  through 
the  instrumentality  that  He  used;  and 
all  blessings,  all  offices,  all  callings,  and 
all  authority  in  this  Church  come  un- 
der and  are  embraced  in  the  holy  Mel- 
chisedek Priesthood,  which  is  after  the 
order  of  the  Son  of  God.  There  is  no 
office  growing  out  of  this  Priesthood 
that  is  or  can  be  greater  than  the 
Priesthood  itself.  It  is  from  the  Priest- 
hood that  the  office  derives  its  author- 
ity and  power.  No  office  gives  authority 
to  the  Priesthood.  No  office  adds  to 
the  power  of  the  Priesthood.  But  all 
offices  in  the  Church  derive  their  power, 
their  virtue,  their  authority,  from  the 
Pristhood.  If  our  brethren  would  get 
this  principle  thoroughly  established  in 
their  minds,  there  would  be  less  mis- 
understanding in  relation  to  the  func- 
tions of  government  in  the  Church  than 
there  is.  Today  the  question  is,  which 
is  the  greater — the  High  Priest  or  the 
Seventy,  the  Seventy  or  the  High 
Priest?  I  tell  you  that  neither  of  them 
is  the  greater,  and  neither  of  them  Is 
the  lesser.  Their  callings  lie  in  dif- 
ferent directions,  but  they  are  from  the 
same  Priesthood.  If  it  were  necessary, 
the  Seventy,  holding  the  Melchisedek 
Priesthood,  as  he  does,  I  say  IF  IT 
WERE  NECESSARY— he  could  ordain 
a  High  Priest;  and  if  it  were  neces- 
sary for  a  High  Priest  to  ordain  a 
Seventy,  he  could  do  that.  Why?  Be- 
cause both  of  them  hold  the  Melchise- 
dek Priesthood.  Then  again,  if  it  were 
necessary — though  I  do  not  ex- 
pect the  necessity  will  ever  arise — 
and  there  was  no  man  left  on  earth 
holding    the    Melchisedek  JPriesthood, 


87 

except  an  Elder,  that  Elder,  by  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  by 
the  direction  of  the  Almighty,  could 
proceed,  and  should  proceed,  to  organ- 
ize the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  in  all 
its  perfection,  because  he  holds  the 
Melchisedek  Priesthood.  But  the  house 
of  God  is  a  house  of  order,  and  while 
the  other  offices  remain  in  the  Church, 
we  must  observe  the  order  of  the 
Priesthood,  and  we  must  perform  ordi- 
nances and  ordinations  strictly  in  ac- 
cordance with  that  order,  as  it  has  been 
established  in  the  Church  through  the 
instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  his  successors. 

I  am  aware  of  the  fact  that  there 
are  those  who  in  the  past  have  held 
different  views  to  this.  They  may  still 
hold  different  views;  and  if  they  do,, 
they  will  have  to  change  them  by  and 
by,  if  they  ever  get  a  correct  knowl- 
edge of  the  Priesthood.  No  office  of  an 
Apostle,  no  office  of  a  President,  no  of- 
fice of  a  High  Priest,  or  a  Seventy,  or 
an  Elder,  is  greater  than  the  Melchis- 
edek Priesthood.  I  hope  you  will  un- 
derstand that.  If  an  Apostle  has  any 
authority  at  all,  he  derives  it  from  the 
Melchisedek  Priesthood,  which  is  after 
God's  order,  and  he  cannot  have  it  in 
any  other  way.  There  is  no  authority 
except  it  comes  from  that  Priesthood. 
It  holds  the  keys  of  the  administering 
of  blessings,  ordinances  and  promises 
upon  the  heads  of  all  the  members  of 
the  Church.  Out  of  the  Melchisedek 
Priesthood  grows  the  Lesser  Priest- 
hood, which  is  called  the  Priesthood  af- 
ter the  order  of  Aaron.  This  is  an  ap- 
pendage to  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood. 
The  office  of  an  Elder,  of  a  High  Priest, 
of  a  Seventy — all  the  offices  in  the 
Church  are  simply  appendages  to  the 
Melchisedek  Priesthood,  and  grow  out 
of  it.  You  can  read  the  revelations  re- 
garding this  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  you  must  see  it 
just  as  I  have  told  it. 

Now,  I  think  I  can  say.  without  any 
reservation,  that  the  brethren  who  are 
placed  in  charge  to  look  after  the  in- 
terests of  the  Church  are  doing  their 
whole  duty  to  the  utmost  of  their  abil- 
ity. Brother  Clawson,  in  his  discourse, 
alluded  to  the  condition  of  our  book* 


ss 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  records  of  tithing.  Never  since 
the  Church  was  organized  were  they 
in  so  perfect  a  condition  as  they  are 
today.  We  can  tell  you  the  name  of 
every  man,  woman  and  child  in  the 
Church  who  pays  tithing,  and  we  can 
tell  you  exactly  what  they  pay.  Not 
only  so,  but  we  have  records  by  which 
we  can  show  the  names  and  the  num- 
ber of  the  members  of  the  Church  who 
are  not  tithepayers.  Furthermore,  we 
can  tell  you  that  not  one  dollar  of  the 
tithings  of  the  Church  is  used  for  any 
purpose  except  that  which  is  legitimate 
and  proper,  according  to  the  necessi- 
ties of  the  Church.  I  say  to  you,  too, 
that  we  are  paying  the  debts  of  the 
Church,  and  the  tithing  is  being  used 
carefully  and  exclusively  at  present  to 
meet  all  current  expenses  and  to  can- 
cel our  obligations,  both  bonded  and 
note.  I  am  happy  to  say  to  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  people 
are  doing  as  well  in  this  direction,  if 
not  better  than  they  have  ever  done 
before,  with  the  exception,  perhaps,  of 
one  year.  There  was  one  year  wherein 
more  tithing  was  paid  than  has  been 
in  any  one  year  since;  but  we  presume 
that  was  the  result  of  unprecedented 
prosperity,  and  we  are  not  disposed  to 
measure  subsequent  years  by  that  one, 
but  rather  to  compare  them  year  by 
year,  on  a  consistent  basis.  It  gives  me 
pleasure  to  say  to  you  that  if  you  will 
continue  to  do  your  duty  in  this  matter, 
it  will  not  be  long  before  the  Church 
will  owe  nobody  except  God.  So 
far  as  I  am  concerned,  I  have 
not  cared  particularly  whether  I  shall 
live  a  long  or  short  time;  still  I  may 
say  it  would  be  pleasing  to  me  if  I 
could  have  the  privilege  of  living  until 
every  dollar  that  the  Church  owes  shall 
be  paid,  and  a  handsome  surplus  re- 
main in  the  treasury.  I  want  to  see 
that  day,  if  the  Lord  is  willing.  But 
if  He  is  not  willing  for  me  to  live  till 
that  day  shall  come.  I  intend  at  any 
rate  to  carry  out  that  purpose 
to  the  best  of  my  ability,  and 
to  work  to  that  end  so  long  as  I  do  live 
and  am  permitted  to  occupy  my  pres- 
ent position.  Moreover,  I  say  to  you 
that  I  have  two  strong,  staunch,  faith- 
ful counselors  to  assist  and  encourage 


me  in  this  endeavor — Presidents  Win- 
der and  Lund.  I  think  if  there  is  one 
of  the  three  of  us  more  inclined  to  be 
liberal  than  the  others,  perhaps  it  is 
Brother  Lund.  His  generous,  large  soul 
sometimes  expands  a  little  farther  than 
Brother  Winder's  or  mine.  We  do  not 
disagree  about  it,  but  we  try  to  be 
economical  and  prudent,  and  eke  out 
that  which  we  have.  We  are  endeavor- 
ing to  assist  the  widow  and  the  father- 
less, and,  as  far  as  our  means  will  go, 
the  different  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion, 
in  the  erection  of  their  meetinghouses. 
We  are  trying  to  do  the  best  we  can 
for  the  maintenance  of  our  temples  and 
for  the  continuance  of  the  work  that  is 
going  on  in  them.  And  this  requires 
considerable  means.  According  to  our 
means  and  the  obligations  resting  upon 
us,  we  are  doing  handsomely,  I  think, 
for  our  Church  schools,  of  which  we 
have  a  number  and  they  are  a  credit 
to  the  people  and  to  the  cause  of  educa- 
tion. We  have  at  last  succeeded  in 
completing  the  Deseret  News  building, 
•the  foundations  of  which  were  laid  by 
President  Lorenzo  Snow.  We  have  also 
completed  the  Deseret  News  annex. 
These  buildings  are  truly  a  credit  to  our 
city,  but  they  have  been  a  source  of 
great  expense  to  the  Church.  They  are 
both  costly  buildings,  especially  the 
main  one.  built  solidly  and  in  the  most 
expensive  way,  and  will  stand  as  a 
monument  to  the  city  for  many  years  to 
come.  They  are  now  paid  for,  and  that 
obligation  is  off  our  hands.  Now  we 
have  undertaken  to  assist — not  to  do  it 
all — in  the  erection  of  a  Latter-day 
Saints  hospital  in  this  city,  where  the 
sick  and  unfortunate  of  our  people 
may  be  taken  in  an  emergency.  It 
will  be  conducted  under  the  auspices  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  we  hope  to 
be  able  to  assist  in  completing  that 
and  still  go  on  paying  our  debts.  But  if 
anybody  possessing  a  surplus  of  means 
is  generous  enough  to  voluntarily  con- 
tribute towards  the  erection  of  that 
hospital,  we  will  be  glad  to  receive  it 
from  him.  Others  do  such  things,  but 
we  have  not  many  rich  among  us,  and 
therefore  we  do  not  expect  so  much 
from  our  brethren;  but  where  men  have 
abundance  of  means  and  desire  to  put 


ELDER  HYRUM  M.  SMITH. 


89 


some  of  it  where  it  will  do  good,  if 
they  will  offer  it  freely  to  this  hospital, 
we  will  accept  it  with  our  blessing,  and 
with  the  blessing  of  the  sick  and  un- 
fortunate that  may  be  taken  there  in 
time  to  come.    The  blessing  of  all  will 
be  upon  the  generous  giver.    Still  we 
expect  to  be  able  to  go  on  with  the 
building  until  it  is  completed — that  is, 
the  main  part.    By  and  by.  doubtless, 
it  will  have  to  be  enlarged  to  meet  our 
necessities.    Then  again,  we  want  the 
good  sisters    who    have  contributed 
means  in  the  past  for  the  erection  of 
a  woman's  building  in  this  city,  for 
which  a  piece  of  land  was  designated, 
to  understand  that  their  efforts  in  this 
direction  are  not  in  vain.   Inasmuch  as 
you  have  contributed  your  means  and 
have  it  in  safe  keeping,  it  will  come 
in  very  nicely  when  we  begin  to  lay 
the  foundations  of  a  memorial  building 
to  the  name  and  honor  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  in  that  building  the 
Relief  society,  the  various  quorums  of 
the  Priesthood  and   the  general  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church  will  have  of- 
ficial habitation  and  offices.    "We  will 
erect  a  building,  I  hope,  that  will  be 
creditable  to  the  Church— not,  however, 
until  we  pay  our  debts.    We  do  not 
want  to  begin  to  incur  new  debts  until 
the  old  ones  are  wiped  out,  nor  then 
if  we  can  avoid  it.    But  when  we  get 
the  means  and  are  otherwise  in  a  posi- 
tion to  do  it,  we  hope  to  put  up  a 
building  on  the  old  Deseret  News  cor- 
ner that  will  afford  headquarters  to 
the  presidency  of    the    Church,  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  the  presiding  Bishop- 
ric, the  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies, 
and  the  general  and  auxiliary  organ- 
izations of  the  Church.    So  we  do  not 
want  you  sisters  to  be  discouraged  be- 
cause you  do  not  see  the  work  going 
on  just  at  present.    "We  have  not  used 
your  money;   in  fact,  you  control  it, 
and  it  is  where  you  have  put  it.  It 
will  be  there,  and  perhaps  bring  you  in 
a  little  interest,   until  we  get  ready 
to   use  it.     "When     that    time  shall 
come,  we  will  then  call  upon  you  to 
help  build  yourselves  and  us  a  home. 

I  feel  happy  in  this  work.  I  know  it 
is  good.  I  feel  it  in  every  fibre  of 
my  being.  I  am  satisfied  that  the  Lord's 


hand  is  over  His  people  for  good,  and 
that  He  is  lengthening  the  cords  of 
Zion  and  strengthening  her  stakes.  I 
have  not  been  able  to  travel  as  much 
as  I  would  like,  but  I  have  had  the 
pleasure  of  visiting,  this  summer,  our 
settlements  in  Canada,  in  Oregon,  and 
in  the  Big  Horn  Basin;  and  wherever 
I  have  gone  I  have  seen  unmistakeable 
evidences  of  God's  blessing  and  ap- 
proval upon  the  people.  On  all  sides 
there  are  evidences  of  progress,  of  in- 
crease, of  the  development  of  the  re- 
sources of  the  land,  and  of  building  up 
and  strengthening  the  stakes  of  Zion. 
I  feel  in  my  heart  that  the  Lord 
will  continue  to  bless  and  prosper 
Zion.  As  an  evidence  that  He  is  do- 
ing so,  we  see  that  the  devil  is  not 
dead  yet,  and  he  won't  die  as  long 
as  the  work  of  God  is  alive  in  the 
earth. 

The  Lord  bless  Zion.  Peace  be  unto 
you,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters,  and 
in  all  your  habitations.  The  peace  and 
blessing  of  God  be  upon  your  families, 
upon  your  flocks  and  your  herds,  your 
substance,  and  all  that  He  has  made 
you  stewards  over,  that  these  things 
may  be  sanctified  unto  the  Lord  and 
blessed  of  Him  to  your  good  and  con- 
tinued happiness  in  time  and  to  your 
exaltation  in  eternity.  God  bless  these 
faithful  men  who  preside  over  the 
stakes  of  Zion,  with  their  counselors 
and  the  members  of  the  High  Councils, 
and  the  Bishops  and  their  counselors. 
God  bless  the  presidents  of  Seventies, 
the  Presiding  Bishopric,  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  and  all  those  who  are  engaged 
in  the  labor  of  the  ministry,  until  the 
Saints  shall  be  brought  to  a  knowledge 
of  the  truth  unto  the  perfect  stature 
of  a  man  in  Christ  Jesus;  that  we  may 
know  as  we  are  known,  and  not  be 
tossed  about  by  every  wind  of  doctrine 
and  by  the  cunning  craftiness  of  men 
whereby  they  lie  in  wait  to  deceive. 
God  deliver  us  from  the  snares  of  the 
adversary,  and  from  the  traps  that  are 
set  for  our  feet  and  the  pits  that  are 
dug  for  our  destruction,  and  make  us 
to  prosper  in  the  land  now  and  forever, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning! 
The  latter-day  glory  begins  to  come 
forth; 

The  visions  and  blessings    of  old  are 
returning, 
The  angels  are  coming  to  visit  the 
earth. 


The  conference  then  adjourned  for  six 
months. 

The  stenographic  work  in  taking  an 
account  of  the  proceedings  was  done 
by  Arthur  "Winter. 


By  request,  President  Smith  pro- 
nounced the  benediction. 


JOHN  NICHOLSON, 
Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


Its  Semi-Annual  Conference,  Held  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Sunday  Evening,  October  4,  1903. 


The  general  semi-annual  conference 
of  the  Sunday  schools  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was. 
held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Sunday,  Oct,  4,  1903.  at  7:30  p.  m.,  Gen- 
eral Superintendent  Joseph  F.  Smith 
presiding. 

Present  of  the  General  Superinten- 
dency:  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
George  Reynolds  and  Joseph  M. 
Tanner;  all  the  members  of  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  Board 
except  President  John  R.  Winder,  and 
those  members  who  are  absent  on  for- 
eign missions;  and  an  immense  audi- 
ence of  Sunday  School  workers  and 
Saints. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang,  "The 
Trumpeters." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Superintendent 
George  M.  Cannon. 

The  choir  then  sang  "O,  My  Father." 

Secretary  George  D.  Pyper  called  the 
roll  which  showed  a  representation 
from  44  stakes. 

The  secretary  also  presented  the  offi- 
cers of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Un- 
ion, who  were  unanimously  sustained, 
as  follows: 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  general  superinten- 
dent; George  Reynolds,  first  assistant 
general  superintendent;  Joseph  M.  Tan- 
ner, second  assistant  general  superin- 
tendent. 

Members  of  the  Board — Joseph.  F. 
Smith,  George  Reynolds,  Joseph  M. 
Tanner,  Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  Levi 
W.  Richards,  Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber 
J.  Grant,  George  Teasdale,  Hugh  J. 
Cannon,  Andrew  Kimball.  John  W. 
Taylor,  L.  John  Nuttall,  James  W. 
Ure,  John  F.  Bennett,  John  M.  Mills, 
William  D.  Owen,  Seymour  B.  Young, 


George  D.  Pyper,  Henry  Peterson.  An- 
thon  H.  Lund,  John  R.  Winder,  James 
E.  Talmage,  George  M.  Cannon,  Hor- 
ace Cummings,  Abraham  O.  Wood- 
ruff. 

George  D.  Pyper,  general  secretary; 
George  Reynolds,  treasurer;  Wm.  A. 
Morton,   business  manager. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  editor  Juvenile  In- 
structor; George  Reynolds,  Joseph  M. 
Tanner,  assistant  editors. 

George  D.  Pyper,  business  manager. 

Second  Assistant    General  Superin- 

SECOND  ASSISTANT  GENERAL 
SUPERINTENDENT  JOSEPH 
M.  TANNER 

said:  It  is  very  gratifying  to 
see  so  many  present  here  to- 
night and  I  trust  that  we  shall 
enjoy  God's  blessings,  and  that  this 
may  be  an  occasion  which  we  shall 
long  remember.  You  may  have  no- 
ticed in  the  presentation  of  the  author- 
ities, that  there  was  one  change.  Since 
our  last  meeting,  Elder  Thomas  C. 
Griggs  has  been  called  from  our  midst. 
For  years  he  has  acted  as  the  business 
manager  of  our  Union,  and  has  been  a 
most  efficient  laborer,  and  we  greatly 
miss  him  today.  Elder  Griggs  has  for 
many  years  been  devoted  to  the  Sun- 
day school  cause.  He  has  likewise  been 
fond  of  music,  and  shown  marked  abil- 
ity in  composing  tunes  for  some  of  our 
favorite  hymns.  But  God,  in  His  infinite 
wisdom,  has  seen  fit  to  call  him  from 
us,  and]  so  you  find  a  change  tonight — 
Brother1  William  A.  Morton  having 
been  called  to  act  in  his  place,  as  our 
business  manager. 
I  am  very  pleased  to  report  that  there 


92 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL,  UNION. 


has  been  a  marked  improvement  in  our 
Sunday  school  work  during  the  past 
year.  It  has  been  one  of  some  inno- 
vation. We  have  prepared  a  course  of 
"Outlines,"  covering  sixteen  years,  con- 
taining a  sufficient  amount  ofl  study  to 
give  our  young  people  a  liberal  theolo- 
gical education,  if  they  but  have  the 
ambition  and  the  pride  to  learn  the  les- 
sons every  week  as  they  come  along. 
These  lessons  are  so  arranged  as  to 
give  a  testimony  to  our  young  people, 
to  implant  in  their  hearts  a  love  for  the 
scriptures  to  attach  to  their  minds  the 
importance  of  a  knowledge  of  Holy 
Writ;  and  we  are  anxious  that  these 
"Outlines"  should  be  adhered  to;  for 
no  one  can  tonight  say  what  great  ben- 
efit they  may  be  to  our  young  people. 
They  are  unon  trial,  and  so  far  as  we 
can  learn,  they  are  received  with  sat- 
isfaction, and  with  assurances  of  good, 
by  practically  all  the  workers  in  the 
Sunday  school  course.  Along  with  these 
"Outlines"  there  are  given  from  time 
to  time  such  instructions  as  are  intend- 
ed to  help  the  Sunday  School  workers 
in  the  discharge  of  their  duties.  We  are 
not  only  anxious  that  our  young  peo- 
ple should  know  the  Scriptures,  but 
also  that  they  should  put  them  into 
practice.  We  are  anxious  that  they 
should  observe  the  word  of  God.  We 
are  anxious  that  testimonies  concern- 
ing the  Gospel  should  be  implanted  in 
their  hearts  at  an  early  period  of  their 
lives.  God  has  made  no  distinction  as 
to  when  a  testimony  of  the  truth  may 
be  received.  A  testimony  may  be  as 
true  and  as  beautiful  in  the  life  of  a 
child  as  it  is  in  matured  persons.  There 
may  not  be  the  experience  in  youth  that 
there  is  in  maturer  years,  but  there 
may  be  a  purity  and  a  devotion  and 
a  fidelity  in  the  hearts  of  the  children 
that  will  cause  the  Holy  Ghost  to  abide 
in  them  and  make  "Mormonism,"  or 
the  work  of  God  in  this  dispensation 
a  permanent  truth  in  their  lives;  and  it 
is  beautiful  when  young  men  and  wo- 
men can  testify  in  all  truth  that  they 
never  knew  a  time  in  their  lives  that 
"Mormonism"  was  not  to  them  a  living 
truth.  It  is  beautiful  when  their  lives 
conform  to  every  principle  of  the  Gos- 
pel.   Thousands  of  our  young  people 


today  are  growing  up  without  any 
knowledge  or  experience,  in  those 
things  forbidden  of  God,  never  know- 
ing the  taste  of  tea  or  coffee,  of  tobac- 
co or  spirituous  drinks.  Their  bodies 
are  strong,  their  minds  are  pure,  and 
they  love  the  work,  and  there  is  a 
growing  interest  in  it  among  them.  We 
are  enlisting  many  young  men  and  wo- 
men who  heretofore  have  not  taken 
much  interest  in  this  work.  We  are  in- 
teresting men  of  ability,  young  men  of 
energy.  They  are  devoting  their  time 
and  their  talents  to  this  work.  There  is 
one  thing,  however,  to  which  I  desire 
to  call  your  attention.  There  is  a  grow- 
ing disposition  among  some  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  to  leave  the  relig- 
ious training  of  their  children 
to  the  various  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations of  the  Church,  that  is,\  their 
children  are  to  be  taught  in  the  Sunday 
schools,  in  the  Mutual  Improvement 
associations,  the  Religion  classes,  etc., 
and  they  feel  that  these  or- 
ganizations are  doing  practically 
all  that  is  necessary  for  them; 
I  fear  that  in  proportion  to  the  ex- 
tent to  which  we  furnish  means  for 
educating  our  children  that  some  of  the 
parents  look  upon  this  work  as  some- 
thing wholly  within  the  sphere  of  these 
organizations,  and  that,  therefore,  they 
are  not  occupying  their  time  in  bearing 
their  testimony  to  their  children  and 
giving  them  such  instruction  as  they 
need  from  their  parents.  I  desire  to 
say  that  there  is  something  in  the  tes- 
timony of  a  father  and  a  mother;  there 
is  something  in  the  word  of  life  and 
light  to  the  child  that  gives  authority 
to  them  when  it  comes  from  the  father 
and  the  mother;  and  no  organization  in 
the  church  can  supercede  the  authority 
of  the  home,  the  authority  of  the  fa- 
ther and  the  authority  of  the  mother. 
And  as  our  faith  is  based  upon  the  au- 
thority of  the  Priesthood  and  upon  the 
authority  of  the  home,  the  instructions 
that  should  come  from  us  or  to  us 
through  the  Priesthood  must  also  be 
supplemented  by  the  instruction  and 
the  authority  of  the  home.  And  so  a 
testimony  is  necessary  from  the  par- 
ents, and  if  they  neglect  it,  their  chil- 
dren will  feel  the  results  of  that  neg- 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


93 


lect,  and  they  will  realize  a  weakness 
in  consequence.  We  therefore  ask  the 
parents  to  sit  down  in  the  home  circle 
wherever  and  whenever  they  can,  and 
read  the  Sunday  school  lessons  with 
their  children.  They  are  carefully  pre- 
pared, the  references  are  given,  and 
the  work  is  such  that  it  can  be  taken 
up  advantageously  in  the  home,  and 
studied  and  read  with  the  children.  If 
the  parents  will  co-operate  with  us,  it 
will  have  a  wonderful  effect  upon  the 
lives  of  our  young  people. 

This  is  a  glorious  work.  It  is  grow- 
ing. It  is  becoming  more  sys- 
tematic, and  I  believe  that  there 
is  more  of  the  Spirit  thrown  into 
this  work,  and  our  young  people  are 
receiving  the  spirit  of  it,  and  praise  be 
to  God  for  the  conditions  of  our  SundP^ 
schools.  "We  thank  Him  and  we  tha>: 
you  for  the  arduous  labor  that  is  de- 
voted and  dedicated  to  the  cause  of  the 
youth  of  Zion.  They  are  the  real  inher- 
itance of  God,  and  we  can  nowhere 
manifest  our  love  for  Him  in  any  great- 
er way  than  by  thus  manifesting  our 
love  for  these  children  that  He  has 
given  into  our  charge. 

God  grant  that  we  may  enjoy  His 
blessings  tonight,  and  that  we  may 
have,  during  the  subsequent  exercises 
of  this  meeting  a  rich  outpouring  of  the 
Spirit  of  God.  I  know  this  is  the  work 
of  God.  I  have  known  it  from  my  in- 
fancy, and  I  don't  remember  the  day 
when  "Mormonism"  to  me  was  not  a 
fundamental  truth,  and  this  is  my 
testimony  tonight.  God  bless  you,  and 
God  bless  our  superintendent  and  all 
those  who  labor  for  the  upbuilding  of 
Zion,  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

A  quartet  composed  of  Brothers 
Thomas  Ashworth,  Fred  Graham,  Wil- 
lard  Christopherson  and  Willard 
Squires  sang  "Sweet  Sabbath  Eve." 

PRESIDENT  ANDREW  KIMBALL 

Of  the  St.  Joseph  stake,  and  a  mem- 
ber of  the  general  board,  said: 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  me,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  participate  in  these 
meetings.  I  desire  to  say,  as  far  as 
my  understanding  goes,  that  the  people 
in  Arizona  are  following  the  line  of 


the  Sunday  school  work  and  they  are 
equally  progressive  with  those  in  the 
other  stakes  of  Zion. 

I  have  been  very  much  impressed  tj?e 
last  two  or  three  weeks  with  the  neces- 
sity of  speaking  upon  the  subject  of 
punctuality.  I  believe  that  the  parents 
can  do  much  towards  assisting  the 
Sunday  schools  in  this  direction.  I 
fear  that  we  leave  too  much  to  be  done 
on  the  Sabbath  morning,  and  I  would 
like  to  urge  upon  the  mothers,  that  they 
do  the  washing  of  the  babies  on  Sat- 
urday night  and  place  their  clothing  in 
readiness,  that  the  children  may  not 
be  embarrassed  on  the  Sunday  morning 
in  going  to  Sabbath  school  late. 

I  have  listened  with  a  great  deal  of 
pleasure  to  the  remarks  that  have  been 
made  during  this  conference,  and  am 
reminded  of  a  circumstance  in  line  with 
what  we  have  heard  in  reference  to  the 
training  of  our  children.  It  was  my 
pleasure  to  assist  in  the  territorial  leg- 
islature, some  three  years  ago,  in  Ari- 
zona, in  securing  a  company  of  thf 
national  guard  to  be  under  the  aus- 
pices of  our  academy  in  Thatch- 
er, Arizona.  Brother  Emil  Maeser, 
who  has  been  the  principal  of  our 
academy  for  some  five  years,  and  has 
done  a  splendid  work,  succeeded, 
through  the  training  he  has  had  here, 
in  training  our  boys  so  that  they  stood 
ahead  of  all  the  national  guards  in  the 
territory.  During  the  past  summer,  a 
strike  broke  out  in  a  mining  camp, 
some  45  miles  from  us.  There  were  in 
the  neighborhood  of  1,200  miners  broke 
away  from  the  regulations  of  the  camp, 
and  would  not  submit  to  the  require- 
ments of  their  employers.  The  Legis- 
lature had  passed  an  eight-hour  law, 
the  miners  wanted  10  hours'  pay  for 
eight  hours'  work.  The  company  made 
them  an  offer  to  give  them  nine  hours' 
pay  for  eight  hours'  work,  but  they 
wouldn't  accept  that.  The  governor 
called  out  the  territorial  national  guard, 
and  our  boys  'were  mustered  into  ser- 
vice. They  were  green  boys  who  had 
attended  the  academy;  they  were  Sun- 
day school  boys  who  had  been  trained 
at  home.  When  one  of  the  lieutenants 
came  to  my  door  about  3  o'clock  in  the 
morning  and  told  me  of  a  telegram  he 


94 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


had  received,  and  asked  if  I  would  meet 
the  boys  on  the  campus  about  six  in  the 
morning',  and  encourage  them,  for  it 
was  their  first  encounter;  my  feelings 
were  wrought  upon  considerably.  Then 
I  thought  for  the  first  time  of  my  la- 
bors in  connection  with  the  national 
guard,  which  had  resulted  in  our  boys 
being  mustered  in.  Well,  I  thought  the 
situation  over,  and  I  asked  the  Lord  to 
bless  and  protect  our  boys,  and  when  I 
thought  of  the  training  they  had  receiv- 
ed in  the  Sabbath  school,  and  in  the 
academy,  then  the  peace  of  the  Lord 
rested  upon  me,  and  I  was  impressed 
to  say,  These  boys  will  go  in  peace 
and  return  in  safety,  if  they  live  up  to 
the  teachings  that  they  have  received 
at  home  and  in  these  institutions.  I 
asked  the  captain  to  line  them  up  be- 
fore me  at  the  railroad  station,  and  I 
said:  "Boys,  you  are  going  away  to 
where  there  is  much  danger.  If  you  will 
live  up  to  the  instructions  you  have  re- 
ceived from  your  mothers  and  your 
fathers  and  in  the  institutions  of  the 
Church,  I  promise  you  that  you  shall 
go  in  safety  and  return  in  peace,  and 
you  will  not  be  called  upon  to  shoot 
any  person,  and  they  will  not  be  called 
upon  to  do  you  any  harm."  I  am  pleas- 
ed to  bear  my  testimony,  that  those 
boys  came  back  full  of  happiness  and 
joy  in  the  testimony  that  they  had  re- 
ceived, for  they  said  that  a  peace  came 
over  them,  in  the  hour  of  their  great- 
est danger,  and  my  promise  came  to 
their  minds.  Then  they  said:  "We  will 
go  and  do  our  duty,  and  no  harm  will 
befall  us."  So  it  was;  and  they  came 
home  unmolested,  and  the  word  came 
back  to  us  from  the  government  offi- 
cers and  officers  of  the  regular  army 
that  our  boys  conducted  themselves 
better  than  any  other  of  the  national 
guard,  and  they  were  so  trusted  that 
the  officers  had  them  go  into  the  sa- 
loons and  other  places  and  get  out  reg- 
lar  soldiers  and  bring  them  back  to 
duty.  They  were  blessed  to  go  in  safe- 
ty and  return  in  peace. 

I  am  going  to  suggest  to  you  a  meth- 
od that  we  have  pursued  in  our  little 
stake.  We  are  of  small  consequence 
away  down  there,  but  it  may  be  possi- 
ble that  we  can  suggest  something  that 


will  be  for  your  good.  The  suggestion 
is  that  the  presidencies  of  the  stakes 
establish  one  regulation  time.  The  time 
of  this  entire  country,  I  believe,  is  the 
mountain  time.  Get  the  same  time  in 
all  your  settlements,  so  that  when  our 
brethren  come  and  visit  the  Sabbath 
schools  they  will  not  come  with  one  time 
and  you  have  another  time  to  start 
your  schools.  We  have  the  time  alike 
all  over  our  stake,  and  at  the  same  mo- 
ment, at  10  o'clock  in  the  morning,  all 
of  our  Sabbath  schools  start  up.  I  was 
thinking  today,  in  the  conference  of  our 
method,  when  the  brethren,  the  presi- 
dents of  stakes  and  others  who  have 
reserved  seats,  were  coming  in  late,  the 
large  congregation  waiting  for  them,  to 
take  the  seats  if  they  were  not  taken, 
by  those  for  whom  they  were  reserved. 
The  way  we  do,  is  to  reserve  seats  for 
the  Priesthood,  and  we  expect  them  to 
set  an  example  to  the  people,  and  if 
they  are  not  there  "on  the  dot"  the  ush- 
ers let  others  have  their  seats.  We  urge 
upon  the  parents  to  send  their  children 
to  Sunday  school  on  time. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, and  bless  the  Sunday  school  work- 
ers. May  the  peace  of  heaven  be  upon 
them,  and  may  they  reap  the  reward  of 
their  untiring  efforts  to  save  the  chil- 
dren of  our  Father,  is  my  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Prof.  John  J.  McClellan  then  render- 
ed on  the  great  organ  an  arrangement 
of  "Kind  Words  are  Sweet  Tones  of 
the  Heart,"  played  on  the  male  voice 
pipes. 

Elder  Seymour  B.  Young  recited  "The 
Dream  of  Pilate's  Wife." 

SUPT    JOHN  D.  PETERS, 

of  the  Box  Elder  stake,  said: 

Brethren  and  sisters,  for  me  to  say 
that  I  am  surprised  this  evening  is  to 
express  the  matter  very,  very  mildly. 

We  have  in  the  Box  Elder  stake 
twenty-six  Sabbath  schools,  twelve  of 
these  schools  are  within  a  radius  of 
about  ten  miles;  fourteen  of  them 
within'  a  radius  of  seventy-five  miles. 
We  have  a  very  energetic  and  active 
Sunday  school  board,  whose  members 
endeavor  to  visit  all  of  the  schools  with- 
in a  reasonable  distance  once  a  month. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


95 


The  chief  work  of  our  board  this  past 
year  has  been  to  impress  upon  our 
teachers  the  necessity  of  preparing  the 
work,  in  order  that  the  "Outlines" 
(which  we  are  very  pleased  with,)  may 
be  strictly  carried  out,  that  is,  carried 
out  in  the  true  spirit  of  their  intended 
meaning-.  We  have  found  that  quite 
a  number  of  our  teachers  become  some- 
what bewildered,  especially  in  the  theo- 
logical "Outlines,"  because  of  the  num- 
erous references  that  are  given  and  we 
are  endeavoring  to  impress  upon  them 
the  necessity  of  only  taking  those  that 
are  most  adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the 
classes;  in  other  words,  to  get  the 
teachers  to  prepare  themselves  in  their 
work,  and  not  only  review  their  classes 
but  have  a  spirit  of  pre-view,  if  you 
will  allow  me  to  so  call  it,  or  at  least  to 
indicate  to  the  students  what  will  be 
the  most  important  facts  and  truths 
in  the  lesson  to  be  taken  up,  and  there- 
by obviate  the  necessity  of  attempting 
to  look  up  all  the  references.  We  hold, 
as  a  board,  weekly  meetings  regularly, 
where  we  receive  the  rer-orts  of  the 
condition  of  our  schools.  We  feel  that 
in  a  weak  way  we  are  doing  our  duty. 

Our  schools  are  in  a  fair  condition. 
As  far  as  the  discipline  of  the  schools 
is  concerned,  we  feel  very  satisfied; 
more  satisfied  with  the  "Outlines"  than 
we  do  with  the  actual  teaching  work 
in  the  school.  We  have  no  particular 
complaint  regarding  the  "Outlines."  We 
feel  that  they  are  the  very  thing  to 
have,  and  also  that  it  is  an  opportune 
time  to  give  them  to  our  schools.  We 
are  endeavoring  as  far  as  possible,  to 
carry  them  out,  and  to  carry  out  any 
instructions  which  the  general  board 
may  give  us.  • 

We  are  holding,  regular  monthly  union 
meetings.  These  meetings  we  en- 
deavor to  carry  out  as  a  well  regulat- 
ed Sabbath  school.  We  divide  into  our 
various  departments,  and  the  mem- 
bers of  the  union  board  take  charge 
of  the  respective  classes.  Their  special 
work  is  to  prepare,  or  at  least  look  over 
the  most  important  truths  in  the  les- 
sons of  the  month  following  the  day  on 
which  the  meeting  is  held.  We  think 
that  in  this  way  we  are  doing  some 
good.    However,  we  find  that  because 


of  the  scattered  condition  of  our  stake, 
that  it  will  be  necessary  for  us  to  hold 
a  consecutive  union  session,  that  is,  a 
sort  of  convention,  where  we  can  meet 
in  three,  four  or  five  consecutive  ses- 
sions, and  thereby  prepare  the  work, 
especially  the  work  that  will  come  in 
the  winter  months. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  rejoice  in 
the  work  of  the  Sabbath  school.  Though 
we  are  weak  and  in  many  ways  fall 
short  of  our  ideal,  we  feel,  that  God 
is  blessing  us.  We  think  that  we  have 
a  good  school  board,  excellent  superin- 
tendents and  good  teachers,  and  that 
the  blessings  of  God  are  attending  us. 
We  desire  to  support  and  sustain  the 
general  board.  We  endeavor  to  uphold 
them,  and  we  present  their  names  to 
our  Sabbath  school  children,  as  also 
those  of  the  authorities  of  the  Church, 
in  order  that  they  may  know  who  are 
the  leaders  for  them  to  follow. 

May  God  bless  you.  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  bless  all  who  are  interested 
and  actively  engaged  in  Sabbath  school 
work,  is  my  desire,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

SUPT.  JOSEPH  J.  JACKSON, 
of  the  Alpine  stake,  said: 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  can  say 
that  I  am  pleased  to  meet  with  you  in 
this  Sunday  school  conference  tonight. 
If  there  is  any  meeting  in  the  Church 
that  gives  me  pleasure,  it  is  Sunday 
school  meeting. 

We  have  in  Alpine  stake  seventeen 
Sunday  schools;  all  of  which  except  one 
are  in  good  running  condition,  and  I 
am  pleased  to  report  to  this  body  of 
workers  that  the  Sunday  schools  in  the 
Alpine  stake  of  Zion  are  on  the  im- 
prove. We  have  now  increased  the 
average  attendance  from  50  per  cent 
at  the  last  conference  to  67  per  cent; 
and  we  expect  to  increase  it  before  our 
next  conference  in  May  to  at  least  75 
per  cent  or  even  80  per  cent.  We  feel 
that,  with  the  direction  of  the  presi- 
dent of  the  stake,  we  can  do  so;  for 
I  want  to  bear  testimony  here  that  the 
president  of  the  Alpine  stake  and  his 
counselors  are  deeply  interested  in  the 
Sunday  school  work,  and  lately  they 
have  been  visiting  our  meetings  of  the 
union  board,  and  they  appoint  mission- 


96 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


aries  among  the  Sunday  schools,  and 
those  missionaries  go  out,  and  one  of 
their  duties  is  to  see  whether  or  not 
the  Sunday  schools  of  the  stake  are 
carrying  out  the  instructions  that  are 
given  hy  our  general  superintendent, 
and  his  co-laborers. 

I  am  pleased  to  state  that  we  have 
in  our  stake  a  union  board,  that  is  not 
surpassed.  I  believe,  in  the  Church.  "We 
have  every  school  represented  in  our 
union  meetings,  and  the  board  meetings 
have  been  for  the  last  few  months  de- 
voted, not  so  much  to  the  consideration 
of  what  we  can  teach  the  children  but 
how  to  teach  them.  We  have  had  pre- 
sented to  us  by  the  general  union  board 
sufficient  subject  matter  to  teach,  but 
the  question  now  is,  how  we  can  best 
teach  it;  and  I  am  pleased  to  state 
that  we  find  matters  easier  by  reason 
of  that  beautiful  academy  that  was 
established  by  President  Brigham 
Young  at  Provo.  From  there  we  have 
some  excellent  teachers.  "We  have 
young  men  and  young  ladies  that  are 
filled  with  the  Spirit  of  God, 
that  go  there  during  the  winter 
months,  and  when  they  come  back  dur- 
ing the  summer  months  we  put  them 
in  the  Sunday  school.  I  want  to  say 
that  the  Alpine  stake  board  is  composed 
of  fifteen  energetic  workers.  Many  of 
them  are  young  men  and  young  women 
who  have  been  educated  in  and  who 
graduated  from  the  Brigham  Young 
academy. 

"We  have  now  adopted  a  plan,  that 
every  Sunday  school  in  the  stake 
should  send  in  a  report  to  the  board 
once  a  month,  that  we  can  know  the 
condition  of  the  school,  that  we  may 
know  whether  or  not  the  pupils  are  im- 
proving in  attendance,  whether  or  not 
they  are  improving  in  keeping  the 
Word  of  "Wisdom.  "We  have  had  print- 
ed and  we  send  out  to  the  different 
schools  a  number  of  questions,  and 
among  these  questions  are:  "Do  you 
attend  to  your  prayers  at  home?" 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  our  ob- 
ject in  the  Alpine  stake  to  place  no 
teachers  to  instruct  the  children  of 
God,  these  choice  spirits  who  have  been 
sent  down  here  to  tabernacle  upon  the 
earth,  unless  they  are  men  of  God,  un- 


less they  can  hold  up  their  hands  in 
support  of  the  authorities  of  the  Church 
and  of  the  stake.  We  ask  them 
whether  or  not  they  are  keepers  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom;  whether  or  not  they 
are  tithe  payers;  whether  or  not  they 
are  members  of  secret  societies.  And  I 
tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
we  see  the  benefit  of  these  questions. 
I  can  say,  that  our  Sunday  school  corps 
of  teachers  are  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God,  and  that  the  Sunday 
schools  are  being  benefited  thereby,  and 
I  believe  that  it  is  just  to  the  children 
that  it  should  be  so.  Why  shouldn't 
we  educate  the  children  to  keep  the 
comandments  of  God?  I  ask  the  teacTi- 
ers  if  there  are  any  under  the  sound  of 
my  voice  who  are  breakers  of  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  whether  or  not  they  can 
stand  up  before  their  Sunday  school 
class  and  teach  them  to  keep  it? 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  inter- 
ested in  the  Sunday  school  work;  and 
that  the  work  in  the  stake  in  which  I 
preside,  I  am  pleased  to  state,  is  pro- 
gressing nicely,  and  we  hope  that  every 
Sunday  school  therein  ere  long  can  say 
that  98  per  cent  keep  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom. One  of  the  Alpine  stake  Sunday 
schools  reported  that  98  per  cent  were 
keepers  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  My 
brethren  and  sisters,  I  tell  you  when 
the  time  comes  that  98  per  cent  of  the 
children  who  attend  Sunday  schools  are 
keepers  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  that 
President  Smith  will  receive  more  aid 
from  trie  Church  than  he  is  receiving 
now.  If  they  are  keepers  of  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  they  will  pay  an  honest 
tithing  unto  God,  our  Eternal  Father, 
the  work  of  God  will  roll  on,  and  His 
name  will  be  glorified  in  the  earth,  and 
the  hopes  that  are  in  the  hearts  of  our 
leaders  will  be  consummated  and  the 
glorious  promises  fulfilled.  May  God 
bless  you,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

FIRST  ASSISTANT  SUPERINTEND- 
ENT GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 
I  have  a  few  items  of  business  to  pre- 
sent to  this  congregation.  In  the  first 
place,  1  shall  draw  your  attention  to 
Nickel  day,— the  last  Sunday  in  this 
month.     The  envelopes  are  now  ready 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


for  distribution;  they  will  be  in  the 
hands  of  the  superintendents  in  a  few 
days.-  Distribute  them,  brethren  of  the 
superintendency,  on  the  Sunday  pre- 
vious to  the  day  of  collection,  and  col- 
lect them  the  next  Sunday,  and  as 
promptly  have  your  Sunday  school 
treasurer  remit  the  amount  to  the  stake 
treasurer,  who,  I  hope,  will  remit  as 
promptly  to  the  general  board.  We  ask 
you  to  be  as  liberal  as  you  can  this  year 
with  your  donation,  as  the  Sunday 
School  Union  board  has  had  to  meet 
several  unexpected  expenses,  and  con- 
sequently we  are  heavily  in  debt,  and 
we  hope,  by  means  of  a  liberal  contri- 
bution on  Nickel  day,  to  set  ourselves 
on  our  feet  again. 

The  offices  of  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  and  of  the  Juvenile  In- 
structor have  been  changed  from  the 
Templeton  building  to  No.  46  east  South 
Temple  street,  a  new  building  lately 
erected,  immediately  west  of  the  His- 
torian's office.  We  shall  be  pleased  to 
see  you.  There,  as  before,  we  have 
a  room,  where,  my  brethren  and  sisters 
who  are  members  and  workers  m  the 
Sunday  school  cause,  we  invite  you  to 
make  your  headquarters  when  you 
come  to  Salt  Lake,  and  where  we  shall 
be  pleased  to  see  you  at  any  time.  This 
change  of  our  office  we  trust  will  be 
very  convenient  to  you. 

You  will  also  notice  that  by  reason 
of  the  demise  of  our  lamented  Brother 
Thomas  C.  Griggs,  that  Elder  William 
A.  Morton,  who  has  been  acting  as  one 
of  the  canvassers  for  the  Juvenile  In- 
structor, is  now  manager  of  the  busi- 
ness department  of  the  Union. 

I  wish  to  say  a  word  or  two  with  re- 
gard to  our  theological  department.  The 
superintendent  of  the  Box  Elder  stake 
drew  attention  to  one  point  upon  which 
there  is  a  little  misunderstanding. 

We  gave  them  many  references,  that 
they  might  select  therefrom  those  pas- 
sages and  references  that  apply  most 
directly  to  their  lesson,  in  the  manner 
in  which  they  were  pleased  to  treat  it; 
but  it  is  not  expected  that  you  will 
take  up  all  the  references  that  are  giv- 
en. Some  of  the  brethren  have  so  mis- 
understood, and  have  tried  to  use  all 
the  references  given,  Sunday  by  Sun- 


day. The  numerous  references  are 
given  that  you  may  select  those  that 
best  suit  your  purpose. 

I  wish  to  draw  your  attention  to  the 
fact  that  we  are  publishing  in  the  Ju- 
venile Instructor  a  series  of  articles  by 
Elder  Osborne  WMtsoe  on  those  por- 
tions of  Jewish  history  that  the  lessons 
in  the  first  year  theological  department 
now  directly  consider.  There  have 
been  quite  a  number  of  complaints  with 
regard  to  these  lessons,  from  the  fact 
that  so  many  of  our  teachers  are  not 
well  acquainted  with  the  latter  por- 
tions of  the  Old  Testament.  This  will 
help  them.  This  will  make  their  les- 
sons much  easier,  and  give  them  tl\at 
information  that  they  do  not  possess, 
and  which  they  have  not  books  of  ref- 
erence to  refer  to.  These  lessons  will 
be  continued  in  the  Juvenile  until  all 
are  considered  that  appertain  to  the 
first  year's  course  in  the  theological  de- 
partment. 

One  item  more:  That  is  in  regard  to 
the  percentage  of  preparation.  We  are 
getting  out  forms,  as  promised  in  the 
late  letter  of  the  general  superintend- 
ency, which  will  be  sent  out  and  put  in 
your  hands,  on  which  you  will  tabulate 
the  reports  that  you  receive  with  regard 
to  the  percentage  of  preparation  dur- 
ing four  Sundays  in  November.  By 
these  reports  we  hope  to  be  enabled  to 
form  some  idea  of  the  percentage  of 
lesson  preparation  throughout  the 
various  schools  in  those  departments 
for  which  this  request  has  been  made. 

And  now,  before  I  sit  down,  I  trust 
the  example  of  the  Alpine  stake  will 
stimulate  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  none  of  you  will  be  satisfied  with 
having  an  average  percentage  of  at- 
tendance of  less  than  75,  and  all  of  you 
will,  as  soon  as  possible,  keep  abreast 
of  the  Alpine  stake  and  not  be  satis- 
fled  until  you  have  reached  the  high- 
est possible  number.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

ASSISTANT  SUPERINTENDENT  JO- 
SEPH M.  TANNER. 

In  addition  to  the  remarks  of  Brother 
Reynolds,  I  desire  to  call  your  atten- 
tion tonight  to  the  value  of  the  present 
volume  of  the  Juvenile  Instructor  to 


9S 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


all  Sunday  school  teachers,  and  recom- 
mend that  all  of  you  get  the  volume 
for  this  year  bound,  as  it  will  be  of 
great  help  to  you  in  your  work. 

Brother  John  Robinson  then  rendered 
a  solo  entitled  "Stilling  the  Tempest." 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  think  all  have  been  delighted  during 
this  meeting  with  the  remarks  that 
have  been  made,  the  testimonies  that 
have  been  borne,  and  the  reports  that 
have  been  given,  and  with  the  delight- 
ful music  that  has  gratified  our  ears. 
I  endorse  all  that  has  been  said,  and 
I  commend  it  to  all  the  Sunday  School 
workers  within  the  sound  of  my  voice. 
I  hope  that  we  will  struggle  on  and  up- 
ward to  attain  the  highest  mark  of  ex- 
cellence that  it  is  possible  for  us  to 
attain,  by  diligent  effort,  by  study  and 
preparation  on  the  part  of  the  teachers, 
that  they  may  be  able  to  assist  their 
pupils  in  their  labors  and  studies  to 
attain  a  higher  excellence. 

I  desire  to  commend  to  this  congrega- 
tion the  Juvenile  Instructor,  for  I  think 
I  may  do  so  without  any  egotism  on 
my  part,  for  it  is  not  the  little  that  is 
said  in  the  Juvenile  Instructor,  over 
my  own  signature  that  I  commend  par- 
ticularly, but  the  articles  that  are  writ- 
ten by  our  correspondents,  such  as 
have  been  named  here  this  evening,  by 
those  who  are  cultured  and  who  are 
studious  and  experienced. 

I  was  startled  a  few  days  ago  when  a 
very  prominent  man  in  one  of  our 
stakes  began  to  flatter  me  a  little,  over 
something  that  had  been  published  in 
the  Era,  in  relation  to  card  playing. 
After  he  had  given  me  a  little  taffy,  I 
said  to  him,  "But  have  you  read  my 
articles  in  the  Juvenile?"  "Oh,  no,  I 
quit  taking  the  Juvenile."  "Why  so?" 
"Oh,  it  shoots  over  the  mark."  I  be- 
gan to  wonder  how  long  since  he  had 
been  reading  the  "little  letters"  and  the 
communications  found  in  the  Letter-box 
in  the  Juvenile.  I  came  to  the  conclu- 
sion that  my  good  brother  had  not 
been  reading  the  Juvenile  for  some 
time  past — for  a  long  time  past.  I  am 
afraid  he  quit  reading  it  before  he  quit 
subscribing  for  it.  Now  I  will  say  that 
the  brethren  associated  with  me  who 
are  more  actively  connected  with  the 


publication  of  the  Juvenile,  because  of 
the  duties  that  otherwise  devolve  upon 
me,  are  doing  their  utmost,  and  are  ex- 
erting themselves  in  great  wisdom  to 
publish  matter  that  will  be  instructive, 
interesting  and  profitable  to  all  who 
read.  I  desire  to  say  at  this  time  to 
this  congregation  that  I  have  felt  very 
strongly  of  late  a  desire,  a  responsi- 
bility, I  may  say,  resting  upon  me,  to 
admonish  the  Latter-day  Saints  every- 
where to  cease  loitering  away  their 
precious  time,  to  cease  from  all  idle- 
ness. It  is  said  in  th»  revelations  that 
the  idler  in  Zion  shall  not  eat  the  bread 
of  the  laborer,  and  there  is  vastly  too 
much,  in  some  parts — not  universally; 
but  there  is  far  too  much  precious  time 
wasted  by  the  youth  of  Zion,  and 
perhaps  by  some  that  are  older  and 
more  experienced  and  who  ought  to 
know  better,  in  the  foolish,  vain  and 
unprofitable  practice  of  card-playing. 
"We  hear  of  card  parties  here  and  card 
parties  there,  and  entertainments 
where  the  playing  of  cards  is  the  prin- 
cipal amusement;  and  the  whole  eve- 
ning is  thus  wasted.  The  whole  prec- 
ious time  of  those  that  are  gathered 
together  on  occasions  of  this  kind,  ag- 
gregating many  hours,  absolutely  wast- 
ed. If  there  was  nothing  else  to  be 
said  against  this  practice,  that  alone 
should  be  sufficient  to  induce  Latter- 
day  Saints  not  to  indulge  in  this  foolish 
and  unprofitable  pastime. 

Read  good  books.  Learn  to  sing  and 
to  recite,  and  to  converse  upon  subjects 
that  will  be  of  interest  to  your  asso- 
ciates, and  at  your  social  gatherings, 
instead  of  wasting  the  time  in  senseless 
practices  that  lead  only  to  mischief  and 
sometimes  to  serious  evil  and  wrong- 
doing, instead  of  doing  this,  seek  out  of 
the  best  books  knowledge  and  under- 
standing. Read  history.  Read  philos- 
ophy, if  you  wish.  Read  anything  that 
is  good,  that  will  elevate  the  mind  and 
will  add  to  your  stock  of  knowledge, 
that  those  who  associate  with  you  may 
feel  an  interest  in  your  pursuit  of 
knowledge  and  of  wisdom. 

I  endorse  most  heartily  the  remarks 
that  were  made  here  tonight  by  Brother 
Jackson.  How  can  a  man  or  a  woman 
as  a  teacher  in  the  Sunday  school  or  as 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


99 


one  occupied  in  any  other  ecclesiastical 
duty,  who  is  in  the  habit  of  playing 
cards,  say  to  the  children,  "You  must 
not  do  it,  because  it  is  a  waste  of  time 
and  it  may  result  in  your  ruin?"  Who 
can  give  such  advice  who  is  in  the 
habit  of  doing  it  himself?  Who  can 
say  to  the  drunkard,  the  tippler,  the 
frequenter  of  saloons,  "You  must  not 
tipple;  you  must  not  frequent  saloons 
you  should  not  darken  the  doors  of 
such  places,"  if  he  is  in  the  habit  of 
doing  those  things  himself?  What  good 
mother  can  say  to  her  daughter,  "You 
must  keep  the  word  of  wisdom,"  when 
she  does  not  do  it  herself?  What  good 
father  can  say  to  his  son,  "My  son 
you  must  not  gamble,  you  must  not 
play  games  of  chance,  you  must  not 
venture  upon  unholy  ground,"  when 
the  father  himself  is  guilty  of  the  same 
practices?  It  cannot  be  done,  or,  if 
it  is  done,  it  will  be  without  force 
and  without  effect,  except,  perhaps,  to 
brand  with  hypocrisy  any  such  parent 
who  gives  such  advice  to  his  children 
and  it  breeds  contempt  in  the  minds 
of  the  children  when  the  parents  un- 
dertake to  teach  them  to  be  better  than 
they  are  themselves,  or  not  to  do  things 
which  they  themselves  indulge  in. 

One  of  the  essentials  to  a  good 
Sunday  school  is  to  have  good,  pure- 
minded,  intelligent,  noble,  true,  and 
faithful  teachers.  If  you  will  have  a 
child  develop  to  what  he  should  be,  he 
that  teaches  the  child  should  be  de- 
veloped to  what  he  ought  to  be;  and 
until  he  is  developed  in  intelligence,  in 
faith,  in  works  of  righteousness,  in  pur- 
ity of  heart  and  mind  and  spirit,  he  is 
not  in  a  very  good  position  to  elevate 
others  to  it. 

Take  the  Juvenile.  Remember  the 
Nickel  fund.  The  Lord  is  blessing  Zion 
It  is  but  little  that  is  necessary  or 
needed  from  each  when  all  will  do  their 
duty.  Now  regarding  tithing,  which 
is  only  a  just  claim  upon  us.  If  all  the 
Latter-day  Saints  will  pay  an  honest 
tithing  of  that  which  the  Lord  gives  to 
them  year  by  year,  the  trustee-in-trust, 
the  presiding  bishopric  and  others  who 
are  entrusted  with  the  care  of  the 
funds  of  the  Church,  will  have  ample 


means  to  meet  every  requirement  that 
is  made  of  them.  We  shall  have  plenty 
to  pay  all  the  debts  that  were  incurred 
during  the  persecutions  of  the  last  few 
years,  and  we  shall  have  means  on 
hand,  instead  of  being  behind,  and  we 
shall  have  plenty,  and  the  earth  will 
teem  with  plenty,  and  the  Lord  will 
open  the  windows  of  heaven  and  bless 
His  people.  Let  me  tell  you  for  youf 
consolation,  if  it  is  any  consolation  tc 
those  that  are  reluctant  in  paying  their 
tithing,  that  the  sectarian  preachers  of 
the  world  are  seeking  to  adopt,  in  their 
churches,  the  principle  of  tithe  paying 
as  the  scriptural  doctrine  and  as  the 
most  consistent  and  proper  way  of 
raising  funds  for  the  maintenance  of 
their  church  work,  instead  of  having  tc 
pass  around  the  hat  every  time  they 
have  a  meeting.  Tithe  paying  is  accord- 
ing to  the  law  of  God,  and  it  will  not 
be  a  great  while,  I  will  venture  to  say 
before  almost  all  the  sectarian  church- 
es that  have  any  tendency  towards 
progress  will  have  adopted  the  prin- 
ciple of  tithing.  And  I  am  happy  to 
say  that  the  Latter-day  Saints,  through 
the  revelation  of  this  principle  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  set  this  example 
to  the  world.  It  is  the  proper  thing  to 
do. 

I  hope  to  see  the  time  when  we  shall 
not  have  to  ask  you  for  assistance,  save 
it  be  to  pay  your  fast  offerings  and 
your  free  will  offerings,  that  which  you 
offer  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor  or  for 
the  accomplishment  of  some  special 
work  in  the  ministry;  that  beyond  that 
we  shall  not  have  to  ask  you  for  any- 
thing but  your  tithing,  and  that  day 
will  come,  if  we  will  only  do  our  duty. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us; 
do  our  duty — I  do  not  say,  "Do  your 
duty."  I  say,  Let  us  do  our  duty,  alL 
the  time,  and  God  will  bless  us.  Amen.. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

I  endorse  with  all  my  heart  the  good: 
counsel  that  has  been  given  us  by  our 
president.  I  hope  that  we  will  re- 
member it. 

I  have  enjoyed  the  evening  very 
much,  and  have  listened  with  pleasure 
to  the  singing  and  all  that  has  taken 
place  here.    When  the  song  was  sung* 


100 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


"•Peace,  be  Still,"  it  brought  me  back  to 
a  little  sail  which  I  took  on  the  Lake 
Geneseret.  I  there  opened  my  Testa- 
ment, and  I  read  to  my  brethren  the 
chapter  where  it  speaks  of  Jesus  stilling 
the  storm  on  that  same  lake.  I  imagined 
myself  back  to  that  time,  when  he  was 
lying  in  the  boat  asleep,  and  his  disci- 
ples were  afraid  that  they  would  be 
■swallowed  by  the  mad  waves.  As  we 
sailed  along,  I  wanted  to  steer,  but  our 
Arab  friends  were  afraid  to  go  far  from 
the  shore.  They  said  that  we  might 
have  just  such  a  storm  any  time,  and 
hence  they  wanted  to  hug  the  shore. 
We  sailed  near  enough  to  the  shore  to 
have  the  flowers,  the  beautiful  olian- 
ders,  drop  into  the  boat.  I  think  les- 
sons of  this  kind  should  be  instilled  in- 
to the  hearts  of  the  children.  We  want 
them  to  have  faith.  We  want  them, 
when  passion  moves  them,  to  be  able  to 
■still  the  storm  of  passion,  to  control 
themselves,  and  when  they  are  sub- 
jected to  storms  of  persecution,  we 
want  them  to  be  trained  in  our  Sunday 
schools  to  have  faith  and  to  put  their 
trust  in  our  Master  ,who  has  power 
to  overrule  even  the  storms  of  persecu- 
tion for  our  good. 

Let  the  Sunday  schools  prosper.  May 
5tou,  my  brethren  and  sisters,,  engaged 
in  the  good  work,  succceed  in  training 
the  young  minds  entrusted  to  your  care, 
that  they  may  grow  up  and  be  an  honor 
to  their  parents  and  to  Zion.  It  is  a 
"blessed  work  you  are  engaged  in.  God 
"toless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  been 
most  happy  in  being  with  you  here  tov- 
night,  and  I  heartily  endorse  every 
word  that  has  been  spoken,  and  trust 
the  spirit  that  has  actuated  the  utter- 
ances of  our  brethren  will  find  lodg- 
ment in  our  hearts,  and  that  each  one 
of  us  will  determine  to  do  our  part  in 
every  respect  and  to  the  best  of  our 
ability. 

May  God  bless  your  superintendents 
and  teachers,  and  inspire  them  to  do 
their  full  part  in  all  things  that  pertain 
to  the  work  of  God,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

I  am  very  happy  to  be  with  you 
again.  I  rejoice  in  the  labors  that  are 
being  accomplished  in  the  Sunday 
school. 

I  read  the  Juvenile,  or  at  least  I  did 
read  it  in  Japan,  with  a  great  deal  of 
pleasure.  I  think  it  is  well  edited,  that 
every  Latter-day  Saint  ought  to  read 
it.  I  feel  that  every  teacher  and  sup- 
erintendent that  does  not  read  it  is 
failing,  in  fact  not  qualifying  himself 
cr  herself  for  duty.  May  God  help  us 
to  fulfill  every  duty,  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang  "Peace, 
Be  Still,"  and  the  conference  adjourned 
with  the  benediction  of  Elder  George 
Teasdale. 


