^JJiitonan  5  0$ict 
ft  IcclraAlWlliSe  <=>Li&mnjf 


Gnu.  MundJtsuL  Jhvdi^-SsamdL 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

CORffRfllCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

«\^> 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Odbbsuc  5,  6,  and  7,  1962 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-second  Semi-annual 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-Second 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday, 
Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  5,  6,  and 
7,  1962. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday 
evening,  October  6,  at  7:00  p.m. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  to  overflow  gatherings 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  on  Temple  Square 
over  a  loud-speaking  system  and  by  tele- 
vision. Additional  thousands  listened  to 
the  services  on  the  Tabernacle  Grounds 
by  means  of  amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  were  broadcast  and 
telecast  over  Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV 
at  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  and  by  arrange- 
ments through  KSL,  stations  throughout 
the  United  States  and  Canada  and  else- 
where made  available  to  their  listening 
or  viewing  audiences  one  or  more  of 
the  general  sessions. 

The  Saturday  morning  session  was 
heard  over  125  television  stations,  thirty 
radio  stations,  and  five  short  wave  sta- 
tions. It  was  video  taped  for  release 
Sunday  morning  for  the  eastern  area  of 
the  United  States. 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  gathered  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  338  other  Church  buildings 
from  coast  to  coast  and  in  Alaska 
and  Canada. 

The  Sunday  morning  services  were 
carried  live  by  18  television  stations 
from  Denver  to  the  West  Coast  from 
the  Tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
Eighteen  radio  stations  throughout  the 
West  broadcast  this  session,  and  three 
radio  stations  carried  the  program  live 
to  the  Eastern  part  of  the  nation.  The 
Sunday    morning    session    was  also 


beamed  by  short  wave  over  facilities  of 
Station  WRUL  of  Boston,  in  Spanish 
to  the  Carribean,  Mexico  and  South 
America,  and  in  English  to  Europe  and 
Africa. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was 
present  and  presided  at  each  of  the 
sessions  and  conducted  the  services  of 
each  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  the  Sunday  morning 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast 
is  also  incuded  in  this  record.  (See 
pages  121  to  122) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Hugh  B. 
Brown. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Delbert  L.  Stapley, 
Marion  G.  Romney,  LeGrand  Richards, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  Howard  W.  Hunter, 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  Nathan  Eldon 
Tanner.* 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr., 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Franklin  D.  Richards, 
Theodore  M.  Burton,  Thorpe  B.  Isaac- 
son, Boyd  K.  Packer,  Bernard  P. 
Brockbank.** 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 
Seymour  Dilworth  Young,  Milton  R. 
Hunter,  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  Marion  D. 
Hanks,  A.  Theodore  Tuttle. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  John  H.  Vanden- 
berg,  Robert  L.  Simpson,  Victor  L. 
Brown. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  and  assistants:  A. 
William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare 
Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of 
Education  and  Chancellor  of  the  Church 
School  System,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary 
Instructors. 


Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
and  members  of  the  Melchizedek  and 
Aaronic  Priesthoods. 

Auxiliary  Officers,  General,  Stake,  and 
Ward,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 


*Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  was  sustained  at  this 
Conference  as  an  Apostle  and  member  of  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  filling  the  vacancy  caused  by 
the  death  of  Elder  George  Q.  Morris. 

**Elder  Bernard  P.  Brockbank  was  sustained  as  one 
of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  opening  session  of  the  One  Hun- 
dred Thirty-Second  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in  Salt 
Lake  City  Friday  morning,  October  5, 
1962  at  10:00  a.m.,  with  President  David 
O.  McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  furnished  by  the  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  of  the  Central 
Idaho  and  Bannock  Welfare  Regions, 
with  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen 
conducting.  Alexander  Schreiner  was 
at  the  organ. 

President  McKay  opened  the  Confer- 
ence by  making  the  following  intro- 
ductory remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the 
One  Hundred  Thirty-Second  Semi-An- 
nual Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
convened  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square.  Yesterday  and  Wed- 
nesday this  building  was  filled  with  the 
women  of  the  Relief  Society  assembled 
in  their  general  conference.  The  Taber- 
nacle was  filled  to  overflowing.  I  said 
to  Sister  Spafford,  "Where  do  the  men 
sit  during  Conference?"  The  answer  is 
apparent  here  this  morning. 

We  wish  to  commend  and  congratu- 
late the  General  Relief  Society  Presi- 
dency and  members  of  the  General 
Board  for  the  outstanding  service  they 
are  rendering  to  the  women  of  the 
Church. 

All  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  are  in  attendance  excepting 
those  who  are  ill  or  absent  on  missions. 
We  are  pleased  to  have  in  attendance 
this  morning  our  General  Authorities 
who  are  presiding  over  foreign  missions: 
Elder  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  over  the 
West  European  Mission;  Elder  Theodore 
M.  Burton  over  the  European  Mission; 
Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks,  presiding  over 
the  British  Mission;   Elder  Bruce  R. 


McConkie,  presiding  over  the  Southern 
Australian  Mission,  and  Elder  A.  Theo- 
dore Tuttle  over  the  South  American 
Mission. 

We  miss  this  morning  the  presence  of 
Elder  George  Q.  Morris  who  passed  away 
April  23,  1962. 

You  will  be  interested  in  knowing  that 
through  the  generous  cooperation  of 
owners  and  managers  of  radio  and 
television  stations  across  the  nation,  this 
will  be  the  most  widely  spread  dis- 
semination of  a  General  Conference 
ever  held  in  the  Church.  A  total  of  127 
television  stations  will  provide  a  poten- 
tial listening  audience  of  77,000,000.  In 
addition  to  the  extensive  television 
coverage,  some  or  all  of  the  proceedings 
of  this  conference  will  be  carried  over 
30  radio  stations  from  coast  to  coast. 
The  Saturday  morning  session  will  be 
video-taped  and  released  to  the  eastern 
part  of  the  United  States  Sunday  morn- 
ing over  97  television  stations.  Four 
other  television  stations  will  carry  the 
program  "live"  and  the  Sunday  morning 
session  will  be  beamed  by  short-wave 
over  facilities  of  station  WRUL  of  Bos- 
ton in  Spanish  in  the  Caribbean, 
Mexico  and  South  America,  and  in  Eng- 
lish to  Europe  and  Africa.  Eighteen 
television  stations  from  Denver  to  the 
West  Coast  will  carry  the  Sunday  morn- 
ing session  "live"  from  the  Tabernacle 
commencing  at  ten  o'clock  in  the  morn- 
ing, Mountain  Standard  Time;  also  three 
radio  stations  in  the  East  will  carry  the 
Sunday  morning  session  "live."  Thus 
millions  across  the  nation  and  through- 
out the  world  will  hear  the  voice  of  the 
General  Authorities  assembled  in  this 
General  Conference.  I  am  sure  the 
public  generally  unite  with  us  in  recog- 
nizing the  great  favor  the  managers  and 
owners  of  these  radio  and  television 
stations  are  bestowing  upon  us.  We 
sincerely  thank  them  for  their  commend- 
able cooperation  in  broadcasting  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  conference. 

The  General  Priesthood  Meeting  Sat- 
urday evening,  originating  in  the  Salt 
Lake  Tabernacle,  will  be  carried  by 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  5 

direct  closed  circuit  to  more  than  338 
gatherings  of  men  and  boys  in  all  parts 
of  the  United  States,  including  Alaska, 
and  in  Canada. 

This  morning  leaders  and  members  of 
the  Church  have  assembled  in  the 
Tabernacle  from  far  and  near,  from  the 
Islands  of  the  Sea,  from  our  recently 
organized  stakes  in  Europe,  Australia, 
New  Zealand  and  Alaska,  and  from 
other  parts  of  the  North  American  Con- 
tinent. To  all  those  gathered  in  the 
Tabernacle  and  the  Assembly  Hall, 
and  to  the  vast  radio  and  television 
audience,  in  behalf  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and 
the  other  General  Authorities,  I  extend 
a  cordial  and  hearty  welcome. 

For  the  convenience  of  those  who  are 
unable  to  enter  this  building,  it  being 
crowded  to  capacity,  we  announce  that 
these  services  and  all  general  sessions 
of  the  Conference  will  be  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  by  television. 

Any  important  messages  that  come  to 
us  for  persons  attending  will  be  an- 
nounced at  the  dismissal  of  the  meetings 
over  the  public  address  system  on  the 
grounds. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  from  the 
Central  Idaho  and  Bannock  Welfare 
Regions,  with  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen  as  their  conductor,  will  furnish 
the  music  for  these  sessions  today.  Dr. 
Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the  organ.  We 
extend  a  hearty  welcome  to  these  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  and  want  them 
to  know  that  it  is  a  joy  to  have  them 
here  with  us. 

We  have  a  letter  from  Brother  Morgan 
S.  Coombs,  President  of  the  Australian 
Mission,  stating:  "The  Australian  Saints, 
the  missionaries,  and  the  mission  presi- 
dency join  in  sending  love  and  greetings 
to  the  General  Authorities  and  to  those 
assembled  at  Temple  Square  for  con- 
ference. Our  prayers  and  thoughts  are 
with  you  and  we  know  our  Heavenly 
Father  will  bless  you  and  us  abundantly 
with  his  inspiration  as  you  speak  to  us." 

Also,  from  Brother  Stephen  R.  Covey, 
president  of  the  Irish  Mission:  "From 
the  beautiful  Emerald  Isle,  Irish  saints 
and  missionaries  send  appreciation,  love 
and  wishes  for  inspirational  conference 
and  health  to  all." 


First  Day 

From  Brother  and  Sister  Fred  W. 
Schwendiman,  New  Zealand  South 
Mission:  "Greetings  and  love  to  the 
Church  Authorities,  members  and  our 
representatives  assembled  in  the  annual 
general  conference  of  the  Church  from 
missionaries  and  members  of  the  New 
Zealand  South  Mission." 

We  are  especially  happy  to  welcome 
and  express  appreciation  for  the  pres- 
ence of  our  stake  presidencies,  temple 
presidencies,  bishoprics,  high  council- 
men,  General  Auxiliary  officers,  and 
other  general  officers  of  the  Church, 
many  of  whom  have  travelled  long  dis- 
tances to  be  in  attendance  at  this 
conference. 

We  have  also  prominent  leaders, 
visitors  and  officials  who  show  their 
interest  and  willingness  to  cooperate 
with  us  whenever  possible,  and  we  have, 
as  reported,  the  following:  Wallace  F. 
Bennett,  United  States  Senator;  David  S. 
King,  United  States  Congressman;  La- 
mont  Toronto,  Secretary  of  State;  (isn't 
the  Governor  here?  I  don't  see  him) : 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson,  president  of  Brig- 
ham  Young  University;  A.  Ray  Olpin, 
president  of  the  University  of  Utah;  G. 
Homer  Durham,  president  of  Arizona 
State  University;  William  P.  Miller, 
president  of  Weber  College;  Marion  G. 
Merkley,  State  Superintendent  of  Public 
Instruction;  Dr.  Howard  McDonald, 
City  College  of  Los  Angeles;  John  L. 
Clarke,  president  of  Ricks  College;  M. 
Blaine  Petersen,  United  States  Congress- 
man; Dr.  M.  Lynn  Bennion,  Sunerin- 
tendent  of  Salt  Lake  City  Public 
Schools;  and  possibly  others  unmen- 
tioned;  Dr.  Ebeid  Sarofim  of  Cairo, 
Egypt,  presently  an  instructor  in  the 
London  University.  We  welcome  Dr. 
Sarofim  to  this  great  conference. 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  session, 
as  already  announced,  will  be  furnished 
by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  Central  Idaho  and  Bannock 
Welfare  Regions,  with  Florence  Jep- 
person Madsen  conducting  and  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  organ.  We  shall 
begin  this  session  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  rendering  "The  Lord  Is 
My  Shepherd."  The  invocation  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Edgar  B.  Brossard,  for- 
merly president  of  the  French  Mission. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Singing  by  the  Singing  Mothers 
Chorus,  "The  Lord  Is  My  Shepherd." 

Elder  Edgar  B.  Brossard,  former  presi- 
dent of  the  French  Mission,  offered  the 


invocation. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 


Elder  Edgar  B.  Brossard,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  French  Mission.  The  Relief 
Society  Singing  Mothers  will  now  favor 
us  with  "My  Soul  Is  Athirst  For  God." 


The  Singing  Mothers  sang,  "My  Soul 
Is  Athirst  For  God." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


"What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mindful 
of  him?  and  the  son  of  man,  that  thou 
visitest  him? 

"For  thou  hast  made  him  a  little 
lower  than  the  angels,  and  hast  crowned 
him  with  glory  and  honour." 

(Psalm  8:4-5.) 

Since  the  dawn  of  civilization,  leaders 
in  organized  society  have  sought  the  an- 
swer to  the  age-old  question:  "What  is 
the  chief  end  of  man?"  Carlyle  an- 
swered it  by  saying,  "To  glorify  God 
and  enjoy  him  forever." 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gave 
through  revelation  from  the  Lord  the 
following:  "That  mine  everlasting  cove- 
nant might  be  established; 

"That  the  fulness  of  my  gospel  might 
be  proclaimed  by  the  weak  and  the 
simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  .  .  ." 
(D&C  1:22-23.) 

He  further  brought  to  light  the  great 
truth  that  God's  work  and  glory  is:  "to 
bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

Throughout  the  centuries  there  have 
been  leaders  and  socially  minded  men 
who  have  desired  the  better  way  of 
living  than  that  which  was  theirs.  The 
good  life,  so  important  to  man's  happi- 
ness, has  been  the  quest  of  the  ages.  To 
sense  the  need  of  reform  has  been  easy, 
but  to  achieve  it  has  been  difficult  and 
well  nigh  impossible.  Ideas  suggested 
by  the  wisest  of  men  have  often  been 
impractical,  sometimes  fantastic,  yet  in 
many  cases  the  world  in  general  has 
been  made  better  by  the  dissemination 
of  new  ideas  even  though  the  experi- 
ments proved  failures  at  the  time. 

In  this  respect  the  first  half  of  the 
nineteenth  century  was  particularly 
marked  by  the  feeling  of  social  unrest, 
and  many  observing  people  became  dis- 


satisfied with  social  and  economic  con- 
ditions, and  thinking  men  sought  for 
remedial  changes.  In  France,  for  ex- 
ample, the  fanciful  theories  of  Francois 
Marie  Charles  Fourier  were  circulated. 
He  attempted  to  outline  the  future  his- 
tory of  our  globe  and  of  the  human  race 
for  eighty  thousand  years.  Today,  his 
books  are  seldom,  if  ever,  read. 

Later,  Robert  Owen,  a  man  of  excep- 
tional ability  and  insight,  when  about 
nineteen  years  of  age,  became  dissatis- 
fied with  the  churches  of  his  day.  He 
decried  their  departure  from  the  simple 
teachings  of  Jesus  and  was  disturbed  also 
by  economic  conditions.  With  a  for- 
tune back  of  him,  and  with  the 
confidence  of  the  Duke  of  Kent,  Queen 
Victoria's  father,  Owen  came  to  the  New 
World  in  America  about  1823.  He  pur- 
chased twenty  thousand  acres  of  land 
in  what  later  became  New  Harmony, 
Indiana.  He  established  what  he  hoped 
to  be  an  ideal  society.  Within  three 
years  he  lost  two  hundred  thousand 
dollars  of  his  fortune,  and  his  experi- 
ment failed. 

A  few  years  later,  George  Ripley,  a 
Unitarian  minister,  conceived  a  plan  of 
plain  living  and  high  thinking.  He  and 
his  associates  became  the  founders  of 
what  is  known  now  as  "The  Great  Ex- 
periment." He  had  as  his  associates 
such  able  men  as  Nathaniel  Hawthorne 
and  Charles  A.  Dana,  who  afterwards 
became  Assistant  Secretary  of  War  in 
the  Cabinet  of  the  President  of  the 
United  States.  This  "Great  Experi- 
ment" came  to  an  end  in  1846. 

I  believe  with  others  that  government, 
institutions,  and  organizations  exist 
primarily  for  the  purpose  of  securing  to 
the  individual  his  rights,  his  happiness, 
and  proper  development  of  his  char- 
acter.   When  organizations  fail  to  ac- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


6 

Friday,  October  5 

complish  this  purpose,  their  usefulness 
ends.  "So  act,"  says  Kant,  "as  to  treat 
humanity,  whether  in  your  own  person 
or  that  of  another,  in  every  case  as  an 
end,  never  as  a  means  only." 

In  all  ages  of  the  world  men  have 
been  prone  to  ignore  the  personality  of 
others,  to  disregard  men's  rights  by  clos- 
ing against  them  the  opportunity  to 
develop.  The  worth  of  man  is  a  good 
measuring  rod  by  which  we  may  judge 
the  rightfulness  or  the  wrongfulness  of 
a  policy  or  principle,  whether  in  gov- 
ernment, in  business,  or  in  social 
activities. 

Theories  and  ideologies  exploited  dur- 
ing the  last  half  century  present  chal- 
lenges more  critical  and  dangerous  than 
mankind  has  ever  before  faced. 

This  present  world  conflict,  affecting 
the  minds  and  souls  of  men  today,  is  set 
forth  by  a  prominent  statesman  of  our 
country  in  the  following  succinct 
summary: 

"On  one  side  are  those  who,  believing 
in  the  dignity  and  worth  of  the  indi- 
vidual, proclaim  his  right  to  be  free  to 
achieve  his  full  destiny — spiritually,  in- 
tellectually, and  materially.  And — on 
the  other  side — there  are  arrayed  those 
who,  denying  and  disdaining  the  worth 
of  the  individual,  subject  him  to  the  will 
of  an  authoritarian  state,  the  dictates  of 
a  rigid  ideology,  and  the  ruthless 
disciplines  of  a  party  apparatus. 

"This  basic  conflict — so  deeply  divid- 
ing the  world — comes  at  a  time  when 
the  surge  of  other  changes  and  up- 
heavals staggers  the  mind  and  senses. 
Whole  nations  are  trying  to  vault  from 
the  Stone  Age  to  the  twentieth  century." 
(The  Future  of  Federalism,  pp.  60-61.) 

Thus,  today,  brethren,  we  are  in  dan- 
ger of  actually  surrendering  our  personal 
and  property  rights.  This  development, 
if  it  does  occur  in  full  form,  will  be 
a  sad  tragedy  for  our  people.  We  must 
recognize  that  property  rights  are  essen- 
tial to  human  liberty. 

Former  United  States  Supreme  Court 
Justice  George  Sutherland,  from  our  own 
State  [Utah],  carefully  stated  it  as 
follows:  "It  is  not  the  right  of  property 
which  is  protected,  but  the  right  to 
property.  Property,  per  se,  has  no 
rights;  but  the  individual — the  man — 
has  three  great  rights,  equally  sacred 
from  arbitrary  interference:  the  right  to 
his  life,  the  right  to  his  liberty,  and  the 


First  Day 

right  to  his  property.  The  three  rights 
are  so  bound  together  as  to  be  essen- 
tially one  right.  To  give  a  man  his 
life,  but  deny  him  his  liberty,  is  to  take 
from  him  all  that  makes  life  worth 
living.  To  give  him  liberty,  but  take 
from  him  the  property  which  is  the 
fruit  and  badge  of  his  liberty,  is  to  still 
leave  him  a  slave."  (From  George 
Sutherland's  speech  before  the  New  York 
State  Bar  Association,  January  21,  1921.) 

The  bond  of  our  secular  covenant  is 
the  principle  of  constitutional  govern- 
ment. That  principle  is,  in  itself, 
eternal  and  everlasting,  despite  the  pre- 
tensions of  temporary  tyrannies.  The 
principle  of  tyranny  maintains  that 
human  beings  are  incurably  selfish  and 
therefore  cannot  govern  themselves.  This 
concept  flies  in  the  face  of  the  wonder- 
ful declaration  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  that  the  people  are  to  be  taught 
correct  principles,  and  then  they  are  to 
govern  themselves.  Dictatorship,  how- 
ever, argues  that  the  people  should  be 
governed  by  the  individual  or  a  clique 
who  can  seize  power  through  subversion 
or  outright  bloodshed.  Further,  the 
people  are  declared  to  be  without 
guarantees  or  rights,  and  the  regime  is 
claimed  to  exist  beholden  only  to  the 
plans  and  whims  of  the  ruling  tyrant. 

Our  founding  fathers,  despite  some 
natural  fears,  clearly  regarded  the  pro- 
mulgation of  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  as  their  greatest  triumph. 

On  June  12,  1955,  Sir  Percy  Spender, 
Australian  Ambassador  to  the  United 
States,  delivered  a  speech  at  the  Union 
University  at  Schenectady,  New  York, 
at  the  time  they  conferred  an  honorary 
degree  of  Doctor  of  Civil  Laws  upon 
him.  I  agree  with  what  he  said  in  that 
speech,  relating  to  present-day  efforts, 
and  I  quote  part  of  it  as  follows: 

"Today,  freedom — political,  economic, 
and  individual  freedom — lies  destroyed 
or  is  in  the  course  of  being  destroyed 
over  great  areas  of  the  globe.  And  it 
has  been  destroyed  and  is  being  de- 
stroyed in  the  name  of  freedom.  A  vast 
struggle  for  the  mind  of  man  is  now 
being  waged — a  struggle  in  which  I 
hope  each  of  you  with  all  your  heart 
will  take  part.  In  this  struggle  truth  is 
distorted  by  those  who  have  not  the 
slightest  regard  for  truth.  All  the  words 
which  mean  so  much  to  us — like  Liberty, 
Freedom,  Democracy — are    being  de- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


7 


spoiled  and  prostituted  by  the  enemies 
of  Liberty,  Freedom,  and  Democracy. 
A  ruthless  dialectical  battle  is  being 
waged  against  the  Christian  way  of  life, 
against  political  liberty,  against  indi- 
vidual freedom,  and  it  is  being  waged 
in  the  name  of  Freedom.  Black  be- 
comes White;  Tyranny  becomes  Free- 
dom; The  Forced  Labor  Camp  stands 
for  Liberty;  The  Slave  State  is  repre- 
sented as  Democracy.  This  is  the  deadly 
challenge  of  Communism.  And  in  this 
challenge  those  who  put  their  empha- 
sis upon  man  as  an  economic  being — 
and  there  are  plenty  in  every  so-called 
free  country  in  the  world  today  who 
do  just  that — those  who  explain  man 
in  terms  of  scientific  and  chemical  facts 
and  the  accident  of  circumstance,  those 
who  treat  human  beings  as  so  many 
'bodies,'  those  who  deny  man's  spiritual 
and  individual  existence — each  of  them 
aids  and  hastens  the  destruction  of  the 
political  institutions  on  which  our  free 
society  rests,  and  whether  he  knows  it 
or  not,  supports  the  dialectics  and  the 
aims  of  International  Communism." 

Jesus  always  sought  the  welfare  of  the 
individual;  and  individuals,  grouped  and 
laboring  for  the  mutual  welfare  of  the 
whole  in  conformity  with  the  principles 
of  the  gospel,  constitute  the  kingdom  of 
God.  Many  of  the  choicest  truths  of 
the  gospel  were  given  in  conversations 
with  individuals  when  Jesus  was  on  the 
earth.  It  was  while  Jesus  talked  with 
Nicodemus  that  he  gave  us  the  message 
relative  to  baptism  and  of  being  "born 
again."  From  the  conversation  with  the 
woman  of  Samaria,  we  have  disclosed 
the  truth  that  they  who  worship  God 
must  worship  him  "in  spirit  and  in 
truth."  From  Jesus'  conversation  with 
Mary  and  Martha,  we  hear  the  divine 
declaration,  "I  am  the  resurrection  and 
the  life:  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though 
he  were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live:  .  .  ." 
(John  11:25.) 

Jesus'  regard  for  the  personality  was 
supreme! 

To  the  members  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  the 
worth  of  the  individual  has  special 
meaning.  Quorums,  auxiliaries,  wards, 
stakes,  even  the  Church  itself,  are  all 
organized  to  further  the  welfare  of  man. 
All  are  but  a  means  to  an  end,  and  that 
end  is  the  happiness  and  eternal  value 
of  every  child  of  God. 


With  wards,  quorums,  organizations, 
and  auxiliaries  in  mind,  I  suggest  three 
major  means  of  winning  souls  to  Christ. 
These  three  conditions  are:  one — 
enrolment  in  the  Church  of  every 
individual;  two — personal  contact;  three 
— group  service. 

These  three  plans,  or  conditions,  are 
already  operating  in  the  Church,  but 
unless  they  function,  they  will  be  inef- 
fective in  accomplishing  the  purposes 
for  which  they  have  been  established. 

It  is  the  duty  of  each  of  these  organ- 
izations to  enroll  every  individual  who 
belongs  to  it,  not  only  to  enroll,  but  to 
know  by  personal  contact  the  conditions 
under  which  each  person  lives.  It  is 
not  enough  to  know,  and  it  is  not  suffi- 
cient to  visit,  for  no  person  can  become 
enthusiastic  with  the  principles  and 
doctrines  of  the  gospel  unless  he  or  she 
lives  them.  "If  ye  will  do  the  will,  ye 
shall  know"  is  a  fundamental  law  of 
spiritual  growth.  (See  John  7:17.) 

If  each  of  the  thousands  of  officers 
and  teachers  in  the  ward,  stake,  and 
auxiliary  organizations;  if  each  of  the 
many  thousands  of  priesthood  mem- 
bers were  to  influence  for  better  living 
one  individual,  and  should  labor  all  his 
days  "and  bring  save  it  be  but  one  soul 
unto  me,"  says  the  Lord,  "how  great 
shall  be  his  joy  with  him  in  the  king- 
dom of  my  Father!"  (See  D&C  18:15.) 

Today,  many  nations  have  lost  their 
independence;  men,  defeated,  have  been 
compelled  to  labor  for  their  conquerors, 
property  has  been  seized  without  recom- 
pense, and  millions  of  people  have  sur- 
rendered all  guarantees  of  personal 
liberty. 

Force  and  compulsion  will  never 
establish  the  ideal  society.  This  can 
come  only  by  a  transformation  within 
the  individual  soul — a  life  redeemed 
from  sin  and  brought  in  harmony  with 
the  divine  will.  Instead  of  selfishness, 
men  must  be  willing  to  dedicate  their 
ability,  their  possessions,  their  lives,  if 
necessary,  their  fortunes,  and  their 
sacred  honor  for  the  alleviation  of  the 
ills  of  mankind.  Hate  must  be  sup- 
planted by  sympathy  and  forbearance. 
Peace  and  true  prosperity  can  come  only 
by  conforming  our  lives  to  the  law  of 
love,  the  law  of  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  A  mere  appre- 
ciation of  the  social  ethics  of  Jesus  is 


8 

Friday,  October  5 

not  sufficient — men's  hearts  must  be 
changed  1 

In  these  days  of  uncertainty  and  un- 
rest, liberty-loving  people's  greatest 
responsibility  and  paramount  duty  is  to 
preserve  and  proclaim  the  freedom  of 
the  individual,  his  relationship  to  Deity, 
and  the  necessity  of  obedience  to  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Only  thus  will  mankind  find  peace 
and  happiness. 

We  find  ourselves  now  immersed  in  a 
great  political  campaign  in  America  for 
the  purpose  of  selecting  candidates  for 
office  in  local,  state,  and  national  posi- 
tions. We  urge  you  as  citizens  to  partici- 
pate in  this  great  democratic  process,  in 
accordance  with  your  honest  political 
convictions. 

However,  above  all  else,  strive  to  sup- 
port good  and  conscientious  candidates 
of  either  party  who  are  aware  of  the 
great  dangers  inherent  in  communism, 
and  who  are  truly  dedicated  to  the  Con- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

stitution  in  the  tradition  of  our  found- 
ing fathers.  They  should  also  pledge 
their  sincere  fealty  to  our  way  of  liberty 
— a  liberty  which  aims  at  the  preserva- 
tion of  both  personal  and  property  rights. 
Study  the  issues,  analyze  the  candidates 
on  these  grounds,  and  then  exercise  your 
franchise  as  free  men  and  women.  Never 
be  found  guilty  of  exchanging  your 
birthright  for  a  mess  of  pottage! 

God  enlighten  our  minds  to  compre- 
hend our  responsibility,  to  proclaim  the 
truth  and  maintain  freedom  throughout 
the  world,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  who  is  now 
serving  as  president  of  the  Southern 
Australian  Mission,  will  now  speak  to 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Alvin 
R.  Dyer. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


When  the  time  drew  near  for  the 
ushering  in  of  this  great  latter-day  dis- 
pensation— the  dispensation  in  which 
the  Lord  designed  to  restore  again  the 
truths  of  everlasting  salvation  to  men — 
he  placed  Joseph  Smith  in  circum- 
stances where  the  future  prophet  was 
confronted  with  a  wave  of  religious 
revivalism.  "In  the  midst  of  this  war 
of  words  and  tumult  of  opinions," 
Joseph  heard  various  ministers  proclaim 
conflicting  systems  of  salvation.  Some 
cried,  "Lo,  here  is  Christ,"  others,  "Lo, 
there."  Confronted  with  this  confu- 
sion, this  young  man,  who  had  been 
prepared  for  his  coming  mission  from 
all  eternity;  who  had  sat  with  Abra- 
ham and  Adam  in  the  councils  in  pre- 
existence;  who  had  the  spiritual  stature 
and  was  the  one  foreordained  to  usher 
in  this  great  work — this  young  man  read 
in  the  book  of  James:  "If  any  of  you  lack 
wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth 
to  all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not; 
and  it  shall  be  given  him."  (James  1:5.) 

Joseph  Smith  said  that  never  did  any 
passage  of  scripture  come  with  more 
power  to  the  heart  of  man  than  this 


did  to  his  heart  at  this  time.  The  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  was  working  with  him  and 
preparing  him  to  receive  the  great  vision 
that  was  ahead.  Having  listened  to  the 
ministers,  he  concluded  that  there  was 
no  real  prospect  of  resolving  the  ques- 
tion as  to  which  of  all  the  churches 
was  right  by  reference  to  the  scriptures, 
"for  the  teachers  of  religion  of  the  dif- 
ferent sects  understood  the  same  passages 
of  scripture  so  differently  as  to  destroy 
all  confidence  in  settling  the  question 
by  an  appeal  to  the  Bible."  In  due 
course,  being  led  by  the  Spirit,  he  re- 
tired to  a  secluded  and  appropriate  place 
to  ask  God  which  of  all  the  churches 
was  right  and  which  he  should  join.  In 
his  language,  this  is  what  occurred: 

"...  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly 
over  my  head,  above  the  brightness  of 
the  sun,  which  descended  gradually  un- 
til it  fell  upon  me. 

".  .  .  When  the  light  rested  upon  me 
I  saw  two  Personages,  whose  brightness 
and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them 
spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by  name 
and    said,    pointing    to    the  other — 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


9 


This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him! 

"My  object  in  going  to  inquire  of  the 
Lord  was  to  know  which  of  all  the 
sects  was  right,  that  I  might  know  which 
to  join.  No  sooner,  therefore,  did  I  get 
possession  of  myself,  so  as  to  be  able 
to  speak,  than  I  asked  the  Personages 
who  stood  above  me  in  the  light, 
which  of  all  the  sects  was  right — and 
which  I  should  join. 

"I  was  answered  that  I  must  join 
none  of  them,  for  they  were  all  wrong; 
and  the  Personage  who  addressed  me 
said  that  all  their  creeds  were  an 
abomination  in  his  sight;  that  those 
professors  were  all  corrupt;  that:  'they 
draw  near  to  me  with  their  lips,  but 
their  hearts  are  far  from  me,  they  teach 
for  doctrines  the  commandments  of 
men,  having  a  form  of  godliness,  but 
they  deny  the  power  thereof.' 

"He  again  forbade  me  to  join  with 
any  of  them;  and  many  other  things 
did  he  say  unto  me,  which  I  cannot 
write  at  this  time.  .  .  ."  (See  Joseph 
Smith  2:13-20.) 

But  on  another  occasion  the  Prophet 
was  permitted  to  write  one  of  these 
other  things.  He  was  told,  in  effect, 
that  if  he  remained  faithful  and  true, 
he  would  be  the  instrument  in  the  hands 
of  the  Lord  to  restore  the  everlasting 
gospel.  In  process  of  time  he  became 
that  instrument;  he  received  revelation 
upon  revelation;  heavenly  ministers 
visited  him;  keys  and  powers,  rights  and 
prerogatives  were  restored,  until  the 
gospel  in  its  fulness  had  been  given 
again,  which  means  that  everything  had 
been  restored  that  was  needed  to  enable 
men  to  gain  a  fulness  of  exaltation  here- 
after. The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  was  set  up,  and  the 
power  of  God  was  again  manifest  to 
men  on  the  earth. 

Now,  I  suggest  that  the  greatest  ques- 
tion in  the  spiritual  realm  today  is  this: 
Was  Joseph  Smith  called  of  God?  Did 
he  in  fact  receive  the  revelations  which 
we  certify  were  given  to  him?  If  he 
was  called  of  God,  if  the  Father  and  the 
Son  appeared  to  him,  if  the  heavens 
have  been  opened  and  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  has  been  set  up  again 
on  earth  through  his  instrumentality, 
then  all  men  everywhere  can  find  sal- 
vation by  coming  to  this  kingdom,  by 
learning  for  themselves  of  the  divinity 


of  the  work,  and  by  hearkening  to  the 
precepts  that  are  taught  here. 

But  if  Joseph  Smith  was  not  called  of 
God,  then  this  cause  that  we  have 
espoused,  and  these  proclamations  that 
we  make,  are  the  greatest  imposition 
and  fraud  that  have  been  promulgated 
in  the  name  of  religion  in  the  course 
of  the  history  of  the  world.  We  are 
worse  than  the  declining  churches  of  the 
world  if  this  cause  is  not  true,  because 
our  proclamation  is  that  the  kingdom 
of  God  has  been  set  up  on  the  earth, 
and  that  this  very  kingdom  is  destined 
to  grow  and  increase  and  break  in  pieces 
all  other  kingdoms  until  it  fills  the 
whole  earth. 

So  I  would  suppose  that  every  honest 
truth  seeker  in  the  world,  every  spirit- 
ually inclined  person  ought  to  desire 
to  know  whether  Joseph  Smith  was 
called  of  God  and  whether  the  Lord's 
hand  is  in  this  work.  I  suggest  that  we 
have  a  pattern  before  us  which  shows 
the  way  whereby  men  can  know  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work.  In  the  dispensa- 
tion which  preceded  this  one,  in  the 
day  when  our  Lord  himself  ministered 
among  men,  he  called  apostles  and 
prophets;  he  sent  missionaries  forth; 
they  laid  the  foundation  of  a  great 
Christian  religion  for  their  day;  and  the 
great  message,  the  question  then  was: 
Has  the  Lord  Jesus  risen  from  the  dead? 
Is  this  man,  this  lowly  Nazarene,  in 
fact  and  in  literal  reality,  the  Almighty 
Jehovah? 

Now,  this  message  that  Christ  had 
risen  from  the  dead,  that  he  had  abol- 
ished death  and  "brought  life  and  im- 
mortality to  light  through  the  gospel" 
(2  Tim.  1:10),  was  carried  by  the  mis- 
sionaries of  old.  They  did  it  by  declar- 
ing in  simplicity  and  in  plainness  the 
gospel  doctrines  that  he  had  given 
them.  They  did  it  by  citing  the  an- 
cient scriptures.  They  did  it  by  point- 
ing to  the  works  which  the  Lord  had 
done  there  in  the  flesh,  he  having  said 
that  the  very  works  that  he  did  bore 
record  of  him;  and  then  they  climaxed 
their  message  by  bearing  testimony  of 
what  God  had  revealed  to  them  as  to 
the  divinity  of  the  work.  Some  of  them 
were  able  to  stand  up  and  say  that  thev 
had  seen  with  their  eyes  and  felt  with 
their  hands,  and  that  they  knew  of  the 
Risen  Lord's  reality;  and  all  of  them 


10 

Friday,  October  5 

were  able  to  testify  that  they  knew  by 
revelation  from  the  Holy  Ghost  that 
the  gospel  was  there  and  that  Jesus  was 
the  Lord. 

This  is  the  same  system  that  exists 
in  this  day.  We  have  in  the  world  now 
some  12,000  missionaries  in  the  various 
nations,  preaching  what  we  call  the 
message  of  the  restoration;  announcing 
the  opening  of  the  heavens,  that  God 
has  spoken;  preaching  the  divine  Son- 
ship  of  Christ;  proclaiming  that  there 
are  living  apostles  and  prophets  on 
earth.  And  they  go  forth  carrying  the 
message  of  salvation  in  precisely  the 
same  way  that  the  apostles  and  prophets 
and  missionaries  of  old  did  it.  They 
go  forth  and  announce  the  doctrines  of 
salvation;  they  preach  them  in  simplicity 
and  in  plainness;  they  cite  the  ancient 
revelations;  they  reason  with  the  people 
and  show  that  these  things  have  been 
predicted;  they  point  to  the  fruits  of 
the  prophet,  the  work  that  he  did,  for 
a  man's  fruits  bear  record  of  him.  Then 
when  all  this  has  been  done,  they  clinch 
the  testimony,  they  climax  the  evidence 
they  give,  by  bearing  testimony  of  what 
God  has  revealed  to  them  of  the  di- 
vinity of  the  work. 

So  though  they  may  be,  as  the  scrip- 
ture read  by  President  McKay  states, 
though  they  may  be  the  weak  and  the 
simple  and  the  humble  of  the  earth, 
yet  with  the  Spirit  of  God  as  their 
companion,  they  fear  not  the  face  of 
man,  but  go  forth  boldly,  proclaiming 
Christ  as  the  Divine  Son  of  God  and 
Joseph  Smith  as  his  prophet  for  this 
age.  As  a  result,  the  honest  in  heart, 
the  upright,  the  spiritually  inclined,  the 
righteous,  the  good,  the  best  people 
among  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  hear 
the  testimony  which  they  bear  and  are 
gathered  into  the  kingdom  of  God. 

You  can  argue  or  debate  about  the 
scriptures;  you  can  explain  away  the 
works  that  are  performed  by  prophets 
and  say  they  were  done  by  this  power 
or  that.  But  you  cannot  argue  with  a 
testimony;  there  is  no  issue  to  debate; 
there  is  no  defense  against  the  testi- 
mony that  rests  in  the  hearts  of  living 
witnesses  who  go  out  and  certify  of 
the  divinity  of  this  work. 

I  can  stand  in  the  congregations  of 
the  earth  and  can  reason  with  the  peo- 
ple out  of  the  revelations.    I  can  cite 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

the  scriptures  of  old.  I  can  recite  the 
proofs  and  the  evidences,  the  fruits, 
such  as  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which 
have  flown  from  the  ministry  of  Joseph 
Smith.  When  I  do  this,  if  people  are 
not  spiritually  inclined,  they  can  argue 
and  contend  and  attempt  to  explain 
these  things  away.  But,  having  done 
all  this,  having  set  the  stage,  having 
laid  a  foundation,  if  I  then  say  to  the 
people:  "In  addition  to  all  these  evi- 
dences, I  have  received  revelation  that 
has  come  to  me  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  telling  me  that  this  latter- 
day  work  is  true,  and  I  bear  record  to 
you  that  God  has  spoken  in  this  day; 
now,  if  you  will  heed  my  warning  voice 
and  come  and  investigate  and  learn 
for  yourselves,  you  also  can  know  of 
the  divinity  of  the  work" — if  I  bear 
such  a  witness,  that  witness  stands 
against  them  at  the  judgment  bar  of 
the  Almighty. 

Every  investigator,  in  due  course, 
stands  exactly  where  Joseph  Smith 
stood.  He  hears  the  cry,  "Lo,  here  is 
Christ,"  and  "Lo,  there."  He  must  de- 
cide for  himself  which  of  all  the 
churches  is  right  and  which  he  should 
join.  At  his  peril,  he  must  find  where 
the  truth  lies.  And  so,  learning  of  the 
doctrine,  and  hearing  the  testimony, 
the  obligation  rests  with  him  to  do  what 
the  ancients  did,  to  ask  God  for  wisdom. 
As  surely  as  he  asks  in  faith,  the  Al- 
mighty will  reveal  to  him  that  this 
great  latter-day  work  is  true.  When  he 
comes  to  know  in  his  heart  that  the 
work  is  true,  then  if  he  has  the  spiritual 
integrity,  fortitude,  and  courage  to  live 
in  harmony  with  the  standards  of  gos- 
pel righteousness,  he  forsakes  the  world, 
as  thousands  are  doing;  he  comes  into 
the  Church;  he  finds  peace  and  joy  and 
satisfaction  and  happiness  in  this  life; 
and  he  charts  a  course  which  will  lead 
eventually  to  eternal  exaltation  in  the 
mansions  on  high,  which  I  pray  may  be 
the  lot  of  all  of  us  and  honest  truth 
seekers  the  world  over.  In  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed  us. 
Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  be  our  next  speaker. 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


We  learn  from  past  history  the  harsh 
lessons  that  have  come  to  those  that 
lack  faith  and  obedience  which  have 
brought  disaster  upon  themselves  and 
their  people.  At  the  end  of  Israel's 
sojourn  in  the  desert,  where  because  of 
disobedience  and  lack  of  faith,  wherein 
all  of  the  aged,  except  three  who  had 
been  delivered  through  Godly  inter- 
vention from  Egypt,  had  virtually  been 
wasted,  making  way  for  a  new  genera- 
tion to  fulfil  the  covenant  of  the  Lord 
in  occupying  the  land  of  their  inherit- 
ance, Moses,  the  great  lawgiver  and 
prophet,  called  all  of  the  new  hosts  of 
Israel  together  at  the  gateway  to  the 
Promised  Land,  in  a  place  known  as 
Kadesh-barnea  the  southerly  entrance  to 
Canaan,  and  there  he  recounted  unto 
the  children  of  Israel  all  the  experiences 
that  had  happened  to  their  parents  and 
the  great  things  which  the  Lord  God 
had  done  for  them.  Here  he  repeated 
that  which  had  been  given  their  faith- 
less forebears  and  the  reason  for  their 
downfall.  I  call  your  attention  to  his 
initial  words  as  he  spoke  to  them: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  fortieth 
year,  in  the  eleventh  month,  on  the 
first  day  of  the  month,  that  Moses  spake 
unto  the  children  of  Israel,  according 
unto  all  that  the  Lord  had  given  him 
in  commandment  unto  them;  .  .  . 

"These  be  the  words  which  Moses 
spake  unto  all  Israel  on  this  side  of 
Jordan  in  the  wilderness,  .  .  . 

"(There  are  eleven  days'  journey  from 
Horeb  by  the  way  of  mount  Seir  unto 
Kadesh-barnea.)"  (Deut.  1:3,  1-2.) 

Horeb,  also  known  as  Mount  Sinai, 
is  where  Moses  communicated  person- 
ally with  God.  Mount  Seir  is  the  range 
of  mountains  bordering  the  desert 
which  the  camel  trains  followed  along 
to  avoid  the  heat  of  the  desert.  At 
Kadesh-barnea,  the  gateway  to  the 
Promised  Land,  Moses  reminded  the 
children  of  Israel  that  the  distance  from 
Sinai  to  the  fulfilment  of  their  cove- 
nant was  but  an  eleven-day  journey.  I 
read  in  the  paper  recently  where  this 
same  distance  was  covered  in  three 
hours  by  automobile,  yet  it  took  Israel 
forty  years  to  travel  that  distance. 


Carlyle  has  said  this,  "For  a  man  to 
have  lived  and  died,  who  might  have 
been  wise  and  was  not — this  I  call  a 
tragedy." 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  stands  poised  on  the 
threshold  of  its  greatest  hour.  Regard- 
less of  the  many  accomplishments  of 
the  past,  and  there  have  been  many,  its 
greatest  challenge  is  ahead.  We  must 
believe  this  and  adjust  to  it. 

In  one  of  the  more  often  referred 
to  parables  of  Jesus,  concerning  the 
rich  young  ruler  who  came  to  him  in- 
quiring as  to  how  he  could  find  favor 
and  stand  approved,  the  Master  told 
him  to  keep  all  the  laws.  This  meant 
keeping  the  Sabbath  day  holy,  the  pay- 
ment of  offerings  in  the  temple,  the 
honoring  of  parents,  and  strict  obedi- 
ence to  the  laws  as  were  imposed  at  that 
time.  "But  all  these,"  said  the  young 
man,  "have  I  kept  from  my  youth.  What 
lack  I  yet?" 

From  this  incident  we  may  strike  a 
parallel  of  some  in  the  Church  today 
who  keep  the  commandments,  and  who, 
like  this  rich  young  man,  feel  to  stand 
approved.  But  in  the  true  sense  of 
Christian  endeavor,  when  we  have 
schooled  ourselves  to  obey  the  will  of 
God,  we  will  have  but  reached  the  door- 
way of  greatness.  To  this  young  ruler, 
who  thought  that  he  had  done  all  that 
was  needed,  Jesus  said, 

".  .  .  go  .  .  .  sell  whatsoever  thou  hast, 
and  give  to  the  poor,  .  .  .  and  follow 
me."  (Mark  10:21.) 

The  young  man  erroneously  thought 
that  Jesus  referred  to  the  distribution 
of  his  earthly  riches  only;  this  would 
soon  be  used  up  in  following  the  divine 
injunction.  Actually  he  was  being  given 
the  challenge  of  service.  It  is  not 
enough  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
commission  only,  as  Jesus  clarified,  for 
if  one  is  to  find  the  real  meaning  of  a 
successful  life  and  to  understand  fully 
the  message  of  Jesus  Christ,  there  must 
be  service  given  unto  others. 

The  Apostle  James,  the  apostle  of 
realism,  has  said  this:  "Therefore  to  him 
that  knoweth  to  do  good,  and  doeth  it 
not,  to  him  it  is  sin."  (James  4:17.) 


12 

Friday,  October  5 

My  associations  and  contacts  within 
the  Church,  having  served  seven  of  my 
last  eight  years  in  the  mission  fields,  and 
now  again  in  the  stakes  of  the  Church, 
confirm  to  me  the  great  faith  and  devo- 
tion that  exists  among  our  people.  It  is 
true,  nevertheless,  that  many  do  not 
respond  to  the  challenge  of  service. 
Unto  these  primarily  and  unto  all  mem- 
bers generally,  I  refer  to  the  divine 
obligations  placed  upon  us  as  members 
of  the  true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  re- 
stored in  these  latter- days.  There  are 
three  principal  areas  of  challenge  by 
which  every  member  may  test  his  own 
faith  and  conviction.  These  are  given  in 
the  revelations  as  contained  in  section  45 
and  section  128  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  perhaps  never  before, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  in  God's  deal- 
ings with  his  children,  is  there  so  much 
expected  of  so  few  I 

First:  As  members,  by  our  conduct  and 
by  obedience  to  the  commandments  of 
God,  we  should  endeavor  to  serve  the 
Lord  that  we  may  make  the  Church 
strong  from  within,  that  it  can  be  a 
standard  unto  God's  children  and  a  light 
unto  the  world. 

There  can  be  no  greater  aspect  to  right- 
eous living  than  to  feel  the  regenerative 
force  of  striving  to  do  better.  There  is 
no  member  listening  here  this  morning, 
or  over  the  air  waves,  who  has  come  any- 
where near  in  accomplishing  what  he 
actually  is  capable  of;  none  have  reached 
their  full  potential  of  leadership  in  the 
Church.  This  means  that  throughout 
the  Church  in  all  of  the  facets  of  its 
organization,  members,  teachers,  officers, 
bishoprics,  high  councils,  stake  presi- 
dencies, and  others,  the  challenge  is 
before  us  today  to  step  up  to  leadership, 
to  step  up  to  real  membership  in  God's 
kingdom.  Two  great  revelations  from 
the  Lord  emphasize  this  to  us. 

"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn 
his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in 
which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence." 
(D&C  107:99.) 

And  the  second,  which  is  compan- 
ionable: "Verily  I  say,  men  should  be 
anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and 
do  many  things  of  their  own  free  will, 
and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness; 

"For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein 
they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And  in- 
asmuch as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  no- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

wise  lose  their  reward.  (Ibid.,  58:27-28.) 

The  second  area  of  divine  commit- 
ment is  that  of  missionary  work,  to 
listen  to  the  voice  of  a  prophet  of  God, 
that  every  member  be  a  missionary, 
and  as  the  children  of  God,  there  can 
be  no  apathy  toward  this  great  chal- 
lenge. Many  there  are  who  say,  "We 
want  to  help,  but  we  just  don't  know 
how  to  do  it."  Let  me  tell  you  of  an 
experience  that  might  indicate  how 
through  friendliness,  through  being  a 
good  neighbor,  through  being  honest 
in  our  dealings  with  our  fellow  men, 
and  simply  by  being  a  Latter-day  Saint 
in  harmony  with  its  teachings,  we  can 
bear  an  influence  on  the  minds  of  peo- 
ple in  this  sense  as  well  as  in  many 
other  ways  be  a  missionary. 

Under  the  instruction  of  President 
McKay,  during  my  term  in  Europe,  I 
had  the  experience  of  going  to  Iceland 
and  there,  after  meeting  all  of  the  lead- 
ing civic  authorities  that  we  thought 
it  important  to  meet,  I  went  into  the 
office  of  the  mayor  of  Reykjavik,  Mayor 
Hallgrimmson,  and  he  treated  us  with 
such  courtesy  and  with  such  friendliness 
that  I  wondered  why  a  man  that  far  off 
would  be  so  friendly  to  us  in  our  desire 
to  find  out  if  it  would  be  possible  that 
missionaries  could  be  sent  into  that 
land.  He  said,  "We  shall  welcome  your 
missionaries,"  and  offered  personally  to 
locate  a  place  for  us  to  hold  meetings 
should  we  come.  I  finally  asked  him 
why  he  was  so  friendly.  He  said,  "The 
story  is  simple.  Years  ago  my  uncle 
went  to  America.  He  had  been  con- 
verted by  two  missionaries  on  the  old 
Western  Island,  150  kilometers  off  the 
mainland  of  Iceland" — which  is  now 
referred  to  by  many  as  "Mormon  Is- 
land," where  some  150  Icelandic  people 
were  baptized  into  the  Church,  and 
many  of  whom  emigrated  to  America; 
some  settled  in  Spanish  Fork  and  in 
Springville.  Mayor  Hallgrimmson  came 
to  America,  unannounced,  not  as  a 
mayor  but  as  an  individual,  primarily  to 
visit  an  uncle  who  was  among  those 
converted.  He  met  and  lived  with  the 
Mormon  people  in  that  area.  He  ob- 
served their  manner  and  way  of  life, 
and  he  told  of  finally  coming  to  Salt 
Lake  City  where  he  met  a  man  who 
managed  a  motel,  and  he  said  that  this 
man  went  out  of  his  way  to  help  him. 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


13 


He  recalled  of  him  that  he  was  a  high 
priest  in  one  of  the  quorums  and  said, 
"If  these  are  Latter-day  Saints,  who  so 
befriended  me,  why  would  I  not  be 
friendly  to  you?"  And  I  have  often 
wondered  if  that  man  who  owned  this 
motel  really  knew  the  good  that  he  did 
that  day  when  he  befriended  Mayor 
Hallgrimmson  of  Reykjavik,  Iceland. 

Now  there  are  people  coming  into  our 
midst  constantly;  men  of  the  priesthood 
go  away  on  business  trips,  and  if  they 
are  concerned  with  the  responsibility  of 
projecting  the  message  of  the  gospel 
that  we  have  and  assist  in  establishing 
a  true  image  in  the  eyes  of  the  people 
of  the  world  of  the  Latter-day  Saint, 
here  is  the  simple  way  to  be  a  mission- 
ary, by  the  downright  effort  of  being  a 
Latter-day  Saint  no  matter  where  we  are 
or  in  whose  presence  we  find  ourselves. 

The  third  area  in  which  we  can  as- 
sist is  in  seeking  after  our  kindred  dead 
by  establishing  the  family  genealogical 
organization  for  this  purpose.  As  I  go 
throughout  the  stakes  of  Zion,  I  see  the 
need  of  a  greater  number  of  marriages 
in  the  temple  of  our  young  people. 
Probably  because  the  family  failed  to 
have  this  kind  of  organization  to  seek 
after  their  kindred  dead,  the  image  has 
not  been  made  in  the  minds  of  their 
sons  and  daughters  of  the  necessity  for 
temple  marriage.  If,  on  the  other  hand, 
there  were  frequent  evidence  in  the 
home  of  the  importance  of  temple  work 
through  genealogical  research  and  at- 
tendance at  the  temple,  when  the  time 
comes  for  marriage  of  young  people  in 
the  home,  their  hearts  and  minds  would 
be  focused  on  temple  marriage. 

In  conclusion  I  want  to  tell  of  a  re- 
markable personal  experience  that  hap- 
pened just  recently.  I  learned  indirectly 
of  a  young  girl  in  Massachusetts  who 
had  been  keeping  a  very  remarkable 
genealogical  record.  I  learned  that  this 
record  was  on  the  Dyer  family.  By  con- 
tacting her  I  learned  that  she  was  not 
a  member  of  the  Dyer  family,  she  was 
not  a  member  of  our  Church,  and  yet 
she  has  done  an  excellent  research  on 
more  than  20,000  members  of  the  Dyer 
family.  I  have  written  to  her  and  ob- 
tained this  record  which  is  in  three 
volumes  and  which  has  been  micro- 
filmed by  our  Genealogical  Association 
and  is  available  to  all  in  the  Church 


who  are  interested  in  this  family  line. 
I  endeavored  to  learn  why  she  did  this. 
In  a  letter  in  reply  to  my  inquiry,  these 
are  her  words: 

"The  Dyer  family  is  far  more  than  a 
hobby.  Please  don't  think  it  foolish, 
Mr.  Dyer,  but  I  feel  that  somehow  it 
was  God's  will  that  I  do  this  work.  My 
whole  life  belongs  to  these  people." 
This  girl  is  seventeen  years  old.  She 
began  researching  at  the  age  of  fourteen. 
She  is  not  a  member  of  the  Church, 
and  she  is  not  a  member  of  our  family, 
but  the  spirit  of  Elijah  has  been  upon 
her.  We  have  learned  where  similar 
experiences  have  been  had  in  many  of 
the  families  of  the  Church,  which  indi- 
cates the  power  that  is  in  the  work  of 
seeking  for  our  kindred  dead. 

I  bear  testimony  of  the  opportunity 
that  is  ours  as  members  of  the  Church 
to  answer  the  challenge  in  working 
through  these  three  areas  of  activity 
within  the  Church.  First,  to  build  the 
Church  and  make  it  strong  so  that 
when  those  who  are  converted  come 
into  it,  they  feel  the  power  and  the 
strength  of  it;  and  secondly,  that  as 
missionaries  we  shall  assist  in  every 
way  to  proclaim  the  truths  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  unto  the  world;  and 
thirdly,  in  fulfilling  the  commandments 
of  God,  that  we  seek  after  our  kindred 
dead.  I  bear  this  record  and  urge  that  as 
a  people  we  meet  these  great  challenges, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 

The  Chorus  and  Congregation  will 
now  join  in  singing,  "We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  For  a  Prophet,"  conducted  by 
Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.  After 
the  singing,  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  speak 
to  us. 


The  congregation  and  the  Singing 
Mothers  Chorus  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For 
A  Prophet." 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  5 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  will  be  interested  in  this  note 
just  handed  to  me:  "We  wish  to  extend 
our  appreciation  for  being  able  to  attend 
this  conference.  One  Hundred  Twelve 
Seminary  Students  from  Marsh  Valley 


First  Day 

High  School."  We  welcome  you  stu- 
dents and  hope  you  will  enjoy  your 
visit  to  this  General  Conference. 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  concluding 
speaker. 


ELDER  EZRA 

Of  the  Council  of 

In  keeping  with  the  spirit  of  the  master- 
ful address  given  by  our  great  leader, 
President  David  O.  McKay  at  the  be- 
ginning of  this  conference,  I  declare  to 
you  this  morning  that  human  liberty 
is  the  mainspring  of  human  progress. 

The  one  great  revolution  in  the  world 
is  the  revolution  for  human  liberty.  This 
was  the  paramount  issue  in  the  great 
council  in  heaven  before  this  earth  life. 
It  has  been  the  issue  throughout  the 
ages.  It  is  the  issue  today. 

It  is  difficult  for  Americans  to  under- 
stand the  danger  to  our  liberty.  "It  is 
generally  outside  the  range  of  our  ex- 
perience." But  we  live  today  in  an  age 
of  peril.  We  are  threatened  with  the 
loss  not  only  of  material  wealth  but  of 
something  far  more  precious — our  liberty 
itself. 

Never  before  in  the  history  of  our 
country  has  there  been  a  greater  need 
for  all  of  our  people  to  take  time  to  dis- 
cover what  is  happening  in  the  world. 
Every  day  decisions  are  being  made  af- 
fecting the  lives  of  millions  of  human 
beings. 

We  as  a  people  have  never  known 
bondage.  Liberty  has  always  been  our 
blessed  lot.  Few  of  us  have  ever  seen 
people  who  have  lost  their  freedom — 
their  liberty.  And  when  reminded  of 
the  danger  of  losing  our  liberty  and 
independence  our  attitude  has  usually 
been:  It  cannot  happen  here. 

We  must  never  forget  that  nations 
may,  and  usually  do,  sow  the  seeds  of 
their  own  destruction  while  enjoying 
unprecedented  prosperity. 

The  children  of  Israel,  willing  to  sac- 
rifice liberty,  wanted  Moses  to  be  their 
king.  Generations  later  their  decendants 
begged  Samuel  the  prophet  to  give  them 
a  king.  He  pointed  out  the  fallacy  of 
their  reasoning.  Samuel,  like  other  great 


AFT  BENSON 

le  Twelve  Apostles 

spiritual  leaders,  ancient  and  modern, 
saw  the  results  that  would  follow  the 
surrender  of  liberty. 

In  that  sacred  volume  of  scripture, 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  we  note  the  great 
and  prolonged  struggle  for  liberty.  We 
also  note  the  complacency  of  the  people 
and  their  frequent  willingness  to  give 
up  their  liberty  for  the  promises  of  a 
would-be  provider. 

The  record  reveals  that  a  man  "of 
cunning  device  .  .  .  and  .  .  .  many 
flattering  words,"  .  .  .  sought  .  .  .  "to 
destroy  the  foundation  of  liberty  which 
God  had  granted  unto  them,  .  . ."  (Alma 
46:10.) 

Then  Moroni,  the  chief  commander  of 
the  armies,  dramatically  ".  .  .  rent  his 
coat;  and  he  took  a  piece  thereof,  and 
wrote  upon  it — In  memory  of  our  God, 
our  religion,  and  freedom,  and  our  peace, 
our  wives,  and  our  children — and  he 
fastened  it  upon  the  end  of  a  pole. 

".  .  .  (and  he  called  it  the  title  of 
liberty)  and  he  bowed  himself  to  the 
earth,  and  he  prayed  mightily  unto  his 
God  for  the  blessings  of  liberty  to  rest 
upon  his  brethren,  .  .  ."  (See  ibid., 
46:12-13.) 

This  great  general,  Moroni,  like  the 
prophets  whose  words  are  recorded  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  spoke  of  the 
Americas  as  a  chosen  land — the  land  of 
liberty.  He  led  the  people  in  battle  who 
were  willing  to  fight  to  "maintain  their 
liberty." 

And  the  record  states:  ".  .  .  that  he 
caused  the  title  of  liberty  to  be  hoisted 
upon  every  tower  which  was  in  all  the 
land,  .  .  .  and  thus  Moroni  planted  the 
standard  of  liberty  among  the  Nephites." 
(Ibid.,  46:36.) 

This  is  our  need  today — to  plant  the 
standard  of  liberty  among  our  people 
throughout  the  Americas. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


15 


While  this  incident  occurred  some 
seventy  years  BC,  the  struggle  went  on 
through  one  thousand  years  covered  by 
this  sacred  Book  of  Mormon  record. 
In  fact,  the  struggle  for  liberty  is  a  con- 
tinuing one — it  is  with  us  in  a  very  real 
sense  today  right  here  on  this  choice 
land  of  the  Americas.  Yes,  on  an  island 
strategically  situated  only  ninety  miles 
from  our  shores. 

Just  a  short  time  ago  Fidel  Castro 
broadcast  to  the  world  his  boastful  con- 
fession that  he  had  been  a  hard-core 
communist  all  of  his  adult  life.  He 
gloried  in  the  fact  that  he  had  been 
able  to  confuse  and  deceive  many  peo- 
ple simply  by  saying  he  was  not  a  com- 
munist. And  because  there  were  gullible 
people  in  this  and  other  countries  who 
believed  his  false  assertions,  he  was  able 
to  establish  a  Soviet  beachhead — "A 
communist  satellite  under  active  Rus- 
sian control." 

Americans  must  face  the  cold  hard 
fact  that  Fidel  Castro  was  encouraged 
and  supported  in  his  seizure  of  Cuba. 
Why?  Simply  because  many  Americans 
were  led  to  believe  the  falsehood  that 
he  would  resist  Soviet  influence  and 
restore  the  full  basic  liberty  of  the  Cuban 
people.  A  few  of  us  issued  early  warn- 
ings based  on  unimpeachable  evidence. 
Two  United  States  ambassadors  re- 
peatedly warned  that  Castro  was  part 
of  the  communist  conspiracy  and  that 
he  was  working  for  the  communist  con- 
quest of  Cuba.  These  voices  went 
unheeded. 

This  is  merely  a  repetition  of  the  same 
deceitful  pattern  which  was  used  after 
World  War  II  to  have  us  tolerate  revolu- 
tionary communists  in  China — to  accept 
them  as  "agrarian  reformers"  and  allow 
them  to  seize  and  enslave  some  450,000,- 
000  people  on  the  Chinese  mainland. 

This  is  the  same  deceitful  pattern 
which  we  have  been  asked  to  accept  in 
the  Congo,  in  Laos,  in  British  Guiana, 
etc.  In  fact,  everywhere  the  communist 
conspiratorial  machinery  is  preparing  for 
a  seizure  of  power,  we  are  assured  there 
is  no  immediate  danger  from  com- 
munism. 

In  less  than  half  a  century  this  evil 
system  has  gained  control  over  one- 
third  of  mankind,  and  it  is  steadily  pur- 
suing its  vicious  goal  of  control  over 
all  the  rest  of  the  world.   It  is  time,  and 


past  time,  for  us  to  be  alarmed. 

I  raised  a  voice  of  warning  two  years 
ago  following  my  return  from  South 
America.  And  now,  today,  Cuba  is 
being  used  as  a  base  to  spread  subver- 
sion and  armed  revolution  throughout 
Latin  America.  Cuba  is  being  used  as 
a  funnel  through  which  communists 
are  infiltrating  other  American  Repub- 
lics. There  can  be  no  stability  in  Latin 
America  so  long  as  "The  shadow  of  the 
hammer  and  sickle  is  darkening  the 
Western  Hemisphere."  The  communist 
objective  is  to  isolate  North  America. 

Less  than  fifteen  years  ago  com- 
munism was  not  a  powerful  force  in 
Latin  America.  Today  it  is  not  only 
strongly  present  there  as  an  enemy  to 
be  reckoned  with — it  is  openly  allied 
with  a  government  located  on  an  island 
only  about  90  miles  south  of  Key  West, 
Florida. 

The  only  political  party  now  func- 
tioning in  Cuba  is  the  popular  Socialist 
Party — the  Communist  Party  under 
another  name. 

It  is  authoritatively  reported  that  by 
the  end  of  1958  there  were  316  known 
communist  or  pro-communist  publica- 
tions in  Latin  America,  the  largest  num- 
ber being  55  in  Mexico.  About  one  half 
are  newspapers  and  other  periodicals. 
There  were  more  than  150  communist 
publishing  houses  and  bookstores.  These 
activities  have  increased  sharply  since 
1958.  (South  Wind  Red,  by  Ray,  p.  17.) 

True  to  communist  and  dictator  tradi- 
tion, the  Cuban  government  has  de- 
prived its  people  of  the  rights  of  a  free 
press,  free  elections,  and  the  protection 
of  other  fundamental  human  rights. 

How  did  this  situation  come  about? 
How  is  it  possible  for  communism  to 
be  here  and  now  moving  into  Africa, 
pressing  upon  all  of  Asia,  threatening 
the  Middle  East  and  increasingly  be- 
coming a  danger  in  the  Western 
Hemisphere? 

There  are,  of  course,  many  reasons. 
Our  apathy — our  complacent  indiffer- 
ence is  a  major  cause.  We  have  per- 
mitted ourselves  to  be  pacified  and 
lulled  away  into  carnal  security  as  Book 
of  Mormon  prophets  predicted.  (See 
2  Nephi  28:21.) 

As  emphasized  from  this  pulpit  two 
years  ago,  we  have  a  rich  history  to  guide 
us.    Think  back  with  me  a  moment  to 


16 

Friday,  October  5 

the  year  1823.  In  that  year,  James 
Monroe  of  Virginia  was  President.  John 
Quincy  Adams  of  Massachusetts  was 
Secretary  of  State.  These  two  men 
formed  and  announced  a  policy — the 
Monroe  Doctrine — which  has  profound- 
ly influenced  the  development  of  our 
entire  hemisphere.  (Here  was  the  situa- 
tion that  called  forth  this  policy — known 
as  the  Monroe  Doctrine — in  1823.) 

Several  of  what  are  now  the  Latin 
American  republics  had  by  force  of  arms 
newly  won  their  independence  from 
Spain  and  Portugal.  Among  them  were 
Columbia,  Mexico,  Chile,  and  Brazil. 

Meantime  a  number  of  the  sovereigns 
of  Europe  were  seeking  to  enforce  the 
"divine  right  of  kings"  with  the  express 
purpose  of  putting  "an  end  to  the  system 
of  representative  government.  .  .  ." 

This  our  government  refused  to  per- 
mit. It  said  so  plainly  in  the  celebrated 
Monroe  Doctrine.  The  heart  of  the  Mon- 
roe Doctrine  consisted  of  these  words 
".  .  .  the  American  continents,  by  the 
free  and  independent  condition  which 
they  have  assumed  and  maintain,  are 
henceforth  not  to  be  considered  as  sub- 
jects for  future  colonization  by  any 
European  powers.  .  .  ."  The  Monroe 
Doctrine,  which  should  be  and  is  an 
enduring  cornerstone  and  living  prin- 
ciple of  national  policy,  stated  further: 
"The  political  system  of  the  allied 
powers  is  essentially  different  .  .  .  from 
that  of  America.  .  .  ." 

Surely  if  it  were  true  a  century  and 
a  half  ago  that  European  monarchy  was 
essentially  different  from  our  American 
system  of  representative  government,  it 
is  even  more  true  today  that  the  com- 
munist system  is  totally  different,  totally 
incompatible,  totally  inimical  to  our 
free  way  of  life. 

This  is  a  time  of  decision.  Further 
vacillation  will  serve  only  to  drive  all 
of  Latin  America  straight  into  com- 
munist hands.  If  action  is  not  taken 
against  the  power-drunken  bandit  and 
his  cohorts,  the  day  will  soon  come  when 
it  cannot  be  done  at  all. 

The  Monroe  Doctrine  was  first  in- 
voked against  the  Russian  Czar  Alex- 
ander. The  Cuban  menace  represents 
the  first  time  in  one  hundred  years  that 
a  hostile  foreign  power  has  established 
a  firm  beachhead  in  the  Americas. 

The  American  people  are  deeply  upset, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

frustrated,  and  angry  at  what  they  fear 
is  a  retreat  from  the  time-honored  Mon- 
roe Doctrine — a  retreat  which  could  now 
end  in  war. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  whose 
scholarly  work  on  the  Monroe  Doctrine, 
as  Under  Secretary  of  State,  is  well 
known,  in  tracing  our  destiny  said  this: 

"Then  came  our  GREAT  Monroe 
Doctrine  which  placed  us  of  the  United 
States  squarely  behind  efforts  of  Latin 
America  to  gain  freedom  and  against 
those  European  states  who  would  thwart 
it. 

"God  again  moved  us  forward  towards 
the  destiny  He  has  planned  for  us.  He 
was  preserving  the  blessings  He  had 
given  to  us."  (Memorandum  on  the 
Monroe  Doctrine,  Dept.  of  State  Publica- 
tion #37,  December  17,  1928.) 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  in 
his  ever  timely  volume,  The  Progess  of 
Man,  in  discussing  America's  fortifica- 
tion against  other  nations  makes  this 
significant  statement. 

"The  greatest  and  most  powerful  forti- 
fication in  America  is  the  'Monroe  Doc- 
trine.' ...  It  appears  to  the  casual 
observer  that  this  doctrine  came  by 
chance  .  .  .  but  this  is  not  so.  It  was 
the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  which 
rested  upon  John  Quincy  Adams, 
Thomas  Jefferson  and  other  statesmen, 
and  which  finally  found  authoritative 
expression  in  the  message  of  President 
James  Monroe  to  Congress  in  the  year 
1823.  .  .  . 

"It  is  generally  understood  ...  in  the 
Church  that  the  greatest  and  most 
significant  principle  by  which  this  land 
is  fortified  against  the  encroachments 
and  invasions  of  European  and  Asiatic 
powers  is  found  in  the  Monroe  Doc- 
trine. .  .  ."  (Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  pp. 
357,  466-467.) 

This  Monroe  Doctrine  widely  ac- 
cepted by  the  republics  of  the  south, 
has  been  the  continuing  policy  of  our 
nation  for  almost  a  century  and  a  half. 
It  has  been  reaffirmed  by  many  Ameri- 
can presidents.  We  are  on  solid  tradi- 
tional American  ground  in  demanding 
that  the  communists  should  not  attempt 
to  extend  their  political  system  to  this 
side  of  the  Atlantic  Ocean. 

If  time  permitted,  we  could  show  that 
in  recent  years,  the  principles  of  the 
Monroe  Doctrine  have  been  strength- 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


17 


ened  by  various  joint  agreements  among 
the  American  nations:  These  should  be 
invoked.  The  longer  we  wait  the  more 
difficult  will  be  the  job. 

It  is  almost  unthinkable  that  any  peo- 
ple would  knowingly  and  wilfully  take 
on  themselves  the  yoke  of  communist 
oppression.  No  nation  has  ever  done 
so  yet.  If  large  masses  of  the  Cuban 
people  have  done  so,  it  is  because  they 
have  been  duped  or  coerced. 

As  a  people  who  have  known  only 
liberty,  we  are  inclined  to  feel,  it  can- 
not happen  here.  We  have  become 
lulled  away  into  a  false  security. 

A  most  brilliant  discussion  of  the 
Latin  American  problem,  which  ap- 
peared in  the  May  1961  issue  of 
American  Opinion,  concluded  with 
these  words: 

". .  .  history  gives  us  one  more  chance. 
If  the  American  people  are  too  blind  or 
too  cowardly  to  take  that  chance,  then, 
whether  or  not  we  as  individuals  de- 
serve it,  you  and  I  and  all  that  we  hold 
dear  .  .  .  must  suffer  the  doom  that 
history  mercilessly  imposes  on  fools." 

Why  are  we  so  timid  in  standing  up  to 
a  Godless  communist  police  state  which 
can't  even  feed  its  own  people,  and  whose 
economy,  they  know,  will  not  support 
a  major  war.  They  "lead  from  weak- 
ness and  we  retreat  from  strength." 

I  say  to  you  it  can  happen  here.  It 
is  happening  here.  We  have  retreated 
from  the  Monroe  Doctrine.  Our  liberty 
is  in  danger.  But  we  go  blithely  and 
gullibly  on  our  way.  Some  of  us  fall 
for  the  Kremlin  line  as  planned  by  the 
mass  murderer  Khrushchev  and  call 
patriots  "extremists"  and  accuse  cour- 
ageous liberty-loving  citizens  of  "divid- 
ing our  people." 

As  President  McKay  said  at  the  close 
of  the  April  general  conference,  quoting 
J.  Edgar  Hoover,  "There  is  no  place 
here  in  America  for  part-time  patriots. 
This  nation  is  face  to  face  with  the 
greatest  danger  ever  to  confront  it,  a 
sinister  and  deadly  conspiracy  which  can 
be  conquered  only  by  an  alert,  in- 
formed citizenry.  It  is  indeed  appalling 
that  some  members  of  our  society  con- 
tinue to  deplore  and  criticize  those  who 
stress  the  communist  danger.  Public 
indifference  to  this  threat  is  tantamount 
to  national  suicide.  Lethargy  leads  only 
to  disaster. . .  ." 


We  must  be  vigilant.  Let  us  unite. 
Let  us  join  in  our  fight  against  the  forces 
of  anti-Christ. 

Forgive  me  for  being  so  blunt,  but  I 
feel  most  deeply  on  these  matters.  Pos- 
sibly it  is  because  I've  seen  at  close 
range  so  much  of  this  godless,  treacher- 
ous conspiracy  in  the  past  few  years  in 
more  than  forty  nations. 

I  realize  that  the  bearer  of  bad  news 
is  always  unpopular.  As  a  people  we 
love  sweetness  and  light — especially 
sweetness.  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  said 
that  every  mind  must  make  a  choice 
between  truth  and  repose.  Those  who 
will  learn  nothing  from  history  are  con- 
demned to  repeat  it.  This  we  are  doing 
in  the  Americas  today. 

As  a  Church  we  have  a  world  mes- 
sage of  salvation  to  deliver  to  our 
Father's  children.  The  restored  gospel 
can  only  thrive  in  an  atmosphere  of 
liberty.  We  are  in  a  worldwide  con- 
flict. It  is  the  first  of  its  kind  in  history. 
It  is  between  light  and  darkness; 
between  liberty  and  slavery.  It  is  a 
struggle  for  the  souls  of  men.  We  must 
win  this  war. 

In  1946  I  stood  in  Czechoslovakia. 
The  deadening  socialist-communist  phi- 
losophies were  even  then  infiltrating 
that  lovely  country.  Our  church  mission 
was  thriving  among  these  liberty-loving 
people.  They  too  said  it  could  not 
happen  there.  Only  two  years  later  it 
had  happened.  They  had  lost  their 
liberty. 

At  the  close  of  World  War  II  while 
serving  as  European  Mission  President, 
I  visited  Stanislaw  M.  Mikolajczyk  in 
Warsaw,  the  leader  of  the  liberty-loving 
Polish  people  and  former  premier  of  the 
Polish  Government-in-Exile.  I  had 
hoped  we  might  do  missionary  work  in 
Poland.  Though  Mikolajczyk  was  the 
leader  of  the  indisputable  majority  of 
the  electorate,  he  had  to  flee  from 
Poland  to  save  his  life  from  the  insidious 
encroaching  communist  police  state. 

I  also  talked  to  our  Polish  Ambassa- 
dor, Arthur  Bliss  Lane.  He  told  me  of 
the  tragic  course  of  appeasement  our 
government  was  pursuing  in  selling  out 
the  Polish  people  to  the  communists. 
Finally,  unable  to  endure  it  any  longer, 
Lane  voluntarily  resigned  so  he  could 
tell  the  story.  He  titled  his  book, 
/  Saw  Poland  Betrayed. 


18 

Friday,  October  5 

And  so  the  pattern  has  been  repeated 
in  country  after  country. 

Rather  than  impede  communism  our 
policies  in  their  total  effect  have  ap- 
parently helped  promote  it.  And  so  the 
honest  in  heart,  many  of  whom  have 
probably  already  been  murdered,  are 
deprived  of  the  message  of  the  restored 
gospel — good  people  who  would  have 
responded  to  the  words  of  truth  from 
our  missionaries. 

Who  then  is  to  blame?  What  then 
can  be  done? 

To  some  extent  we  Latter-day  Saints 
and  Americans  everywhere  must  share 
some  blame  for  we  have  not  been 
awake  to  the  warnings  of  the  prophets. 
We  have  not  exerted  our  righteous  in- 
fluence as  citizens  to  stop  this  disastrous 
course.  Our  skirts  are  not  entirely 
clean.  Many  of  us  have  been  asleep 
in  Zion — the  Western  Hemisphere. 

"But,"  say  some,  "why  should  we  be 
so  concerned.  After  all  if  the  Lord 
wants  them  to  get  the  gospel  message, 
they'll  get  it." 

Of  course,  if  the  Lord  desired,  he 
could  this  instant  preach  the  gospel  to 
every  soul  and  do  all  our  genealogical 
work.  He  could  also  right  every  wrong, 
feed  the  famished,  plant  our  crops, 
train  our  children,  etc.  But  his  doctrine 
requires  us  to  do  our  best  ourselves  in 
these  areas  and  ask  the  Lord's  help  in 
our  endeavors.  After  we've  done  all  we 
can,  then  the  Lord  will  cover  for  us. 

Now  what  can  be  done?  We  have 
missionaries  and  Saints  in  South  Amer- 
ica. Those  countries  fall  within  the 
scope  of  the  Monroe  Doctrine.  These 
countries  are  now  being  pushed  in  the 
direction  of  bondage — the  loss  of  liberty. 

What  can  we  do  to  help  meet  this 
grave  challenge  from  a  godless,  atheistic, 
cruelly  materialistic  system — to  preserve 
our  God-given  Liberty? 

We  can  encourage  our  government 
wherever  we  live,  to  stand  firm  at  all 
costs  against  any  further  expansion  of 
despotic  communism. 

We  can  support  our  government  in 
keeping  the  flame  of  liberty  burning 
in  the  souls  of  the  oppressed — wherever 
they  may  be  throughout  the  world. 

We  can  heed  the  words  of  men  like 
Edward  Hunter  who  for  twenty  years 
has  been  reporting  communist  con- 
spiracy and  brain-washing  from  abroad 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

and  who  recently  wrote  this: 

"In  Washington  these  days  one  hears 
a  great  deal  of  the  word  escalation  but 
never  the  word  honor. 

"Escalation  was  the  reason  Americans 
had  to  stand  by  and  watch  with  folded 
hands  as  a  young  man  bled  to  death  a 
hundred  feet  from  them  at  the  Berlin 
wall  of  shame,  although  we  had  every 
right  to  go  in  and  stem  his  bleeding 
under  wartime  agreement. 

"Imagine  anyone  telling  an  American, 
only  a  few  years  back,  that  we  would 
stand  by  idly,  witnessing  a  man  die 
needlessly  because  he  wanted  to  be 
free!  .  .  . 

"Escalation  is  why  we  stood  by  wring- 
ing our  hands  when  the  East  Germans 
started  building  the  wall,  whereas  is 
now  known,  their  orders  were  to  stop 
if  we  showed  any  serious  resistance. 

"Escalation,  if  continued,  will  com- 
plete our  softening-up,  until  we  'bury 
ourselves,'  as  Khrushchev  predicts.  .  .  . 

"This  soft  escalation  policy  in  Cuba, 
starting  in  1958,  permitted  'a  small  band 
of  hoodlums,  under  the  leadership  of 
Fidel  Castro'  to  conduct  'open  warfare 
against  the  established  government  of 
Cuba,  which  was  friendly  towards  the 
United  States.  .  .  .'  We  have,  thus  passed 
the  time  for  soft  and  easy  action  to 
protect  ourselves,"  says  Mr.  Hunter. 
"We  have  only  one  course  of  action  left: 
to  destroy  Communist  power  in  Cuba 
by  force  of  arms." 

As  I  visited  among  the  good  people 
of  Cuba  in  1955,  I  had  a  secret  hope 
we  would  soon  be  able  to  bring  to  them 
the  truths  of  the  restored  gospel.  What 
are  our  prospects  now?  People  said  in 
Cuba  in  1955:  It  cannot  happen  here. 
We  love  liberty. 

The  insidious  but  rapid  take-over  of 
Latin  America  is  drawing  ever  closer 
to  the  final  showdown. 

Unless  godless  communism  is  stamped 
out  of  Cuba,  it  is  only  a  matter  of  time 
until  like  Czechoslovakia,  other  missions 
will  likely  close  and  more  of  our  Father's 
children  will  be  deprived  of  their  liberty 
and  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel. 

The  message  of  salvation  must  move 
forward.  God  grant  that  every  effort 
to  stay  its  growth  will  be  frustrated. 

Courage  and  statesmanship  are  im- 
peratively needed  today.  We  must  take 
chances  for  liberty.   May  God  bless  our 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


19 


national  leaders  in  this  time  of  crisis. 

Yes,  the  effective  preaching  of  the 
gospel  can  only  thrive  in  an  atmosphere 
of  liberty.  Yes,  we  all  say,  we  love 
liberty.  But  that  is  not  enough.  We 
must  protect  and  safeguard  that  which 
we  love.   We  must  save  liberty. 

God  grant  us  the  wisdom  and  the  cour- 
age so  to  do,  before  it  is  too  late,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  "The  Voice  In 
The  Wilderness,"  conducted  by  Sister 


Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.  The  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  Elder  Jesse  R. 
Curtis,  formerly  president  of  the  Swiss- 
Austrian  Mission,  after  which  this  Con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  two 
o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  music  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  Central  Idaho  and  Ban- 
nock Welfare  Regions.  Elder  Alexander 
Schreiner  has  been  at  the  organ. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang  the  anthem,  "The  Voice  In  The 
Wilderness." 

Elder  Jesse  R.  Curtis,  former  president 
of  the  Swiss-Austrian  Mission,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  Friday  afternoon  session  of  the 
Conference  convened  at  2:00  p.m.  in 
the  Tabernacle. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  Central  Idaho  and 
Bannock  Welfare  Regions,  with  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  conducting.  Elder 
Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant  Tabernacle 
Organist,  was  at  the  organ  console. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services,  and  made 
the  following  introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  in  the  second 
general  session  of  the  132nd  Semi- 
Annual  Conference  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  As 
announced  this  morning,  through  the 
generous  cooperation  of  owners  and 
managers  of  radio  and  television  sta- 
tions across  the  nation,  a  total  of  127 
television  stations  and  28  radio  stations 
will  carry  to  practically  every  state  in 
the  Union  and  many  foreign  countries 
the  proceedings  of  the  various  sessions 
of  this  Conference.    The  names  of  the 


stations  carrying  the  proceedings  were 
announced  to  the  television  and  radio 
audiences  just  prior  to  the  opening  of 
this  meeting.  Thank  you,  owners  of 
these  stations,  for  rendering  to  the  con- 
gregations the  favor  of  sending  out  the 
proceedings  of  this  Conference. 

We  have  received  the  following  tele- 
grams since  this  morning's  session: 

From  President  Grant  S.  Thorn  of  the 
Northeast  British  Mission:  "We  send 
the  love  and  best  wishes  for  a  success- 
ful Conference  from  all  the  Saints  and 
missionaries  of  our  wonderful  mission." 

From  Brother  Carl  W.  Buehner, 
Sisters  Florence  S.  Jacobsen  and  Elaine 
A.  Cannon  in  Stuttgart,  Germany,  meet- 
ing with  M.I.A.  Leaders  in  stakes  of 
Great  Britain  and  Europe:  "Meetings 
inspiring.  We  miss  being  home  for 
Conference  but  send  our  love  and 
prayers  for  all." 

From  President  Lloyd  Mickelsen  of 
the  Great  Lakes  Mission:  "We,  the 
elders  and  sisters  and  presidency  of  the 
Great  Lakes  Mission  send  our  love  and 
join  you  with  our  faith  and  prayers 
for  a  most  successful  Conference." 

From  Senator  Frank  B.  Moss:  "Regret 
my  absence  from  Conference  this  morn- 


20 

Friday,  October  5 

ing.  Insistent  demands  of  current  and 
important  Congressional  sessions  have 
kept  me  in  Washington.  My  heart  is  at 
home  with  you,  but  my  duty  is  here. 
God  bless  you  and  keep  you." 

These  services  are  also  being  broadcast 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  by  television. 
Those  who  are  standing  in  the  doorways 
may  possibly  find  seats  in  this  building. 
We  extend  a  hearty  welcome  to  our  "un- 
seen audience"  and  to  all  who  are 
gathered  in  these  audiences. 

We  again  acknowledge,  with  apprecia- 
tion, the  presence  of  our  stake  presi- 
dencies, high  councilmen,  bishoprics, 
temple  presidencies,  General  Auxiliary 
officers,  patriarchs  and  others.  We  are 
favored  again  this  afternoon  by  the 
presence  of  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  Central  Idaho  and 
Bannock  Welfare  Regions,  with  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conducting 
and  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  render- 
ing, "Unto  Thee  I  Lift  Mine  Eyes."  The 
invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
James  David  Pratt,  president  of  the 
Burbank  Stake. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
sang  "Unto  Thee  I  Lift  Mine  Eyes." 

Elder  James  David  Pratt,  president  of 
the  Burbank  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Brother 
James  David  Pratt,  president  of  the 
Burbank  Stake.  The  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  will  now  favor  us  with 
"The  Lord's  Prayer,"  conducted  by  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.  After  the 
singing  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
will  give  the  opening  address. 


An  anthem,  "The  Lord's  Prayer,"  was 
sung  by  the  Singing  Mothers. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Quorum  of  Twelve, 
will  be  our  first  speaker.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  trust 
I  may  have  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  in  what  I  shall  say.  I  want 
to  make  a  plea  to  the  brethren  holding 
the  priesthood  and  to  the  sisters  of  the 
Church  to  spend  a  little  more  time  in 
the  study  and  the  research  that  they 
might  give  to  the  standard  works  of  the 
Church,  and  particularly  to  the  Book 
of  Mormon. 

We  had  a  campaign  a  short  time  ago 
in  which  we  asked  the  members  of  the 
priesthood  to  read  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. It  seems  to  me  when  we  know  the 
history  whence  the  Book  of  Mormon 
came  and  how  it  came,  no  member  of 
this  Church  could  rest  satisfied  until 
he  or  she  had  read  it  from  cover  to 
cover — not  once,  but  many  times. 

Now,  there  are  some  religious  organ- 
izations who  have  centered  their  attack 
largely  upon  the  Book  of  Mormon.  They 
go  into  the  homes  of  members  of  the 


Church  and  point  out  to  them  what 
they  consider  to  be  errors  or  changes 
or  additions  to  what  was  given  in  the 
first  publication.  If  anybody  has  pub- 
lished a  book  he  knows  that  the  first 
thing  that  stares  him  in  the  face  the 
moment  it  comes  off  the  press  is  some 
glaring  error.  We  have  never  claimed 
that  in  the  beginning  there  were  not 
some  errors  which  the  Prophet  corrected, 
but  they  were  very,  very  few.  But  some 
of  these  complaints  or  charges  are 
against  certain  writings  that  appear,  and 
in  the  limited  time  that  I  have  I  wish  to 
refer  to  two  of  these  accusations. 

I  have  a  letter  on  my  table  now  from 
a  man  who  seems  to  be  very  much  dis- 
turbed because  he,  in  conversation  with 
some  of  these  people,  was  told  that  the 
Book  of  Mormon  did  not  tell  the  truth 
in  regard  to  the  birth  of  the  Son  of  God, 
and  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  declared 
that  the  Savior  would  be  born  in  Jeru- 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


21 


salem,  the  land  of  their  fathers.  Now 
the  Book  of  Mormon  makes  no  such 
statement.  I  am  going  to  read  it  to 
you. 

Alma,  in  speaking  about  the  coming 
of  the  Son  of  God,  said:  "And  behold, 
he  shall  be  born  of  Mary,  at  Jerusalem 
which  is  the  land  of  our  forefathers, 
.  .  ."  (Alma  7:10.)  Now,  if  he  had  said 
the  city  of  our  forefathers  it  would  have 
made  a  difference,  would  it  not?  Well, 
wasn't  Jesus  born  in  the  land  of  Jeru- 
salem, Jerusalem  being  the  capital? 
Alma  did  not  say  he  would  be  born  in 
the  city  of  Jerusalem,  but  in  the  land 
over  which  Jerusalem  was  the  capital. 
But  they  make  a  great  deal  out  of  this, 
and  some  of  our  people  seem  to  be 
unable  to  defend  themselves.  Now, 
at  does  not  mean  necessarily  in.  You 
might  read  in  the  newspaper,  if  you 
were  in  Great  Britain,  that  a  certain 
vessel  arrived  at  London,  but  it  did 
not — it  landed  at  Southampton,  the 
port  for  London,  which  is  many  miles 
away.  There  is  no  mistake  in  this  state- 
ment whatever.  Jesus  was  born  at  the 
land  of  Jerusalem,  the  land  of  their 
forefathers.   So  much  for  that. 

The  other  charge  that  is  made  that 
I  wish  to  mention  is  the  statement  of 
Abinadi,  and  a  similar  statement  occurs 
in  some  other  places,  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
both  Father  and  Son  to  us. 

"And  now  Abinadi  said  unto  them:  I 
would  that  ye  should  understand  that 
God  himself  shall  come  down  among 
the  children  of  men,  and  shall  redeem 
his  people. 

"And  because  he  dwelleth  in  flesh 
he  shall  be  called  the  Son  of  God,  and 
having  subjected  the  flesh  to  the  will 
of  the  Father,  being  the  Father  and 
the  Son — 

"The  Father,  because  he  was  con- 
ceived by  the  power  of  God;  and  the 
Son,  because  of  the  flesh;  thus  becom- 
ing the  Father  and  Son — "  (Mosiah 
15:1-3.) 

What's  wrong  with  that  scripture? 
What  is  a  father?  One  who  begets  or 
gives  life.  What  did  our  Savior  do? 
He  begot  us,  or  gave  us  life  from  death, 
as  clearly  set  forth  by  Jacob,  the  brother 
of  Nephi.  If  it  had  not  been  for  the 
death  of  our  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  the 
spirit  and  body  would  never  have  been 
united  again.  Death  would  have  been 


inevitable  and,  as  Jacob  states — I  won't 
take  time  to  turn  to  read  it — if  there 
had  been  no  redemption  from  death 
our  spirits  would  have  been  taken  cap- 
tive by  Satan,  and  we  would  have 
become  subject  to  Satan's  will  forever. 

What  did  our  Savior  do?  He  begot 
us  in  that  sense.  He  became  a  father 
to  us  because  he  gave  us  immortality 
or  eternal  life  through  his  death  and 
sacrifice  upon  the  cross.  I  think  we 
have  a  perfect  right  to  speak  of  him  as 
Father. 

King  Mosiah  put  his  people  under 
covenant  to  take  upon  them  the  name 
of  Christ.  And  this  was  124  years 
before  the  birth  of  Christ.  I  want  to 
read  a  verse  or  two  from  this  pledge. 
"And  now,  because  of  the  covenant 
which  ye  have  made  ye  shall  be  called 
the  children  of  Christ,  his  sons,  and 
his  daughters;  for  behold,  this  day  he 
hath  spiritually  begotten  you;  for  ye 
say  that  your  hearts  are  changed  through 
faith  on  his  name;  therefore,  ye  are  born 
of  him  and  have  become  his  sons  and 
his  daughters  [spiritually]."  (Mosiah 
5:7.)  Is  there  anything  wrong  in  us 
calling  Jesus  Christ  our  spiritual  Father? 
"And  under  this  head,"  this  wonderful 
king  said,  "ye  are  made  free,  and  there  is 
no  other  head  whereby  ye  can  be  made 
free.  There  is  no  other  name  given 
whereby  salvation  cometh;  therefore,  I 
would  that  ye  should  take  upon  you 
the  name  of  Christ,  all  you  that  have 
entered  into  the  covenant  with  God 
that  ye  should  be  obedient  unto  the 
end  of  your  lives. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  who- 
soever doeth  this  shall  be  found  at  the 
right  hand  of  God,  for  he  shall  know 
the  name  by  which  he  is  called;  for  he 
shall  be  called  by  the  name  of  Christ. 

"And  now  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that 
whosoever  shall  not  take  upon  him  the 
name  of  Christ  must  be  called  by  some 
other  name;  therefore,  he  findeth  him- 
self on  the  left  hand  of  God."  (Ibid., 
5:8-10.) 

The  Son  of  God  has  a  perfect  right 
to  call  us  his  children,  spiritually  be- 
gotten, and  we  have  a  perfect  right  to 
look  on  him  as  our  father  who  spir- 
itually begot  us. 

Now  if  these  critics  would  read  care- 
fully the  Book  of  Mormon,  they  would 
find  that  when  the  Savior  came  and 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  5 

visited  the  Nephites,  he  told  them  that 
he  had  been  sent  by  his  Father.  He 
knelt  before  them,  and  he  prayed  to  his 
Father.  He  taught  them  to  pray  to  his 
Father,  but  that  did  not  lessen  in  the 
least  our  duty  and  responsibility  of  look- 
ing upon  the  Son  of  God  as  a  father 
to  us  because  he  spiritually  begot  us. 

The  Lord  bless  you  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Firs!  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 


He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve. 
Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak  to  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  John 
Longden. 


ELDER  HOWA1 

Of  the  Council  of 

On  the  evening  of  the  day  of  the  resur- 
rection, Jesus  appeared  and  stood  in  the 
midst  of  his  disciples  in  the  closed  room. 
He  showed  them  his  hands  through 
which  had  been  driven  the  nails  and  his 
side  which  had  been  pierced  by  the 
spear.  Thomas,  one  of  the  twelve,  was 
not  present  when  this  happened,  but 
the  others  told  him  they  had  seen  the 
Lord  and  that  he  had  spoken  to  them. 

No  doubt  Thomas  had  been  deeply 
shaken  by  the  events  of  the  past  days. 
His  love  and  devotion  to  the  Master 
cannot  be  questioned,  but  the  flame  of 
faith  had  burned  low  and  had  grown 
cold.  The  tomb  was  empty,  this  he 
knew.  Mary  Magdalene  and  the  other 
women  and  Peter  and  John  had  been 
there.  Jesus  later  appeared  to  Mary  in  the 
garden,  and  she  told  the  disciples  of  this 
event  as  she  had  been  commanded.  That 
very  day  the  Risen  Master  had  walked 
with  Gleopas  and  his  companion  down 
the  road  to  Emmaus  and  had  also  ap- 
peared to  Simon  Peter  in  Jerusalem.  In 
spite  of  these  evidences,  Thomas  was 
skeptical,  and  he  said  to  the  disciples: 

".  .  .  Except  I  shall  see  in  his  hands 
the  print  of  the  nails,  and  put  my 
finger  into  the  print  of  the  nails,  and 
thrust  my  hand  into  his  side,  I  will  not 
believe."  (John  20:25.) 

This  statement  of  Thomas  has  caused 
him  to  be  remembered  down  through 
the  ages  and  his  name  placed  with  the 
skeptics,  the  doubters,  and  the  faint- 
hearted; with  those  who  will  not  believe 
until  they  see.  In  a  sense,  Thomas  rep- 
resents the  spirit  of  our  age.  He  would 
not  be  satisfied  with  anything  he  could 
not  see,  even  though  he  had  been  with 
the  Master  and  knew  his  teachings  con- 


}  W.  HUNTER 

te  Twelve  Apostles 

cerning  faith  and  doubt.  Jesus  had  said: 

".  .  .  O  thou  of  little  faith,  where- 
fore didst  thou  doubt?"  (Matt.  14:31.) 

".  .  .  Why  are  ye  so  fearful?  how  is  it 
that  ye  have  no  faith?"  (Mark  4:40.) 

".  .  .  If  thou  canst  believe,  all  things 
are  possible  to  him  that  believeth." 
(Ibid.,  9:23.) 

".  .  .  According  to  your  faith  be  it 
unto  you."  (Matt.  9:29.) 

All  of  these  things  Thomas  well 
knew,  but  his  personal  faith  had  been 
dimmed  by  a  great  disappointment. 
Faith  does  not  take  precedence  over 
doubt  when  one  must  feel  or  see  in 
order  to  believe. 

Thomas  was  not  willing  to  stand  on 
faith.  He  wanted  positive  evidence  of 
the  facts.  He  wanted  knowledge,  not 
faith.  Knowledge  is  related  to  the  past 
because  our  experiences  of  the  past  are 
those  things  which  give  us  knowledge, 
but  faith  is  related  to  the  future — to  the 
unknown  where  we  have  not  yet  walked. 

We  think  of  Thomas  as  one  who  had 
traveled  and  talked  with  the  Master, 
and  who  had  been  chosen  by  him.  In- 
wardly we  wish  that  Thomas  could 
have  turned  toward  the  future  with  con- 
fidence in  the  things  which  were  not 
then  visible,  instead  of  saying  in  effect, 
"To  see  is  to  believe." 

It  must  have  saddened  the  heart  of 
the  Savior,  but  this  had  happened  be- 
fore. Within  the  past  few  days  Judas 
had  betrayed  him,  Peter  had  denied 
him,  and  now  Thomas  doubted  him. 

A  week  later,  the  disciples  were  again 
together  in  the  same  house  in  Jeru- 
salem. This  time  Thomas  was  with 
them.  The  door  was  closed,  but  Jesus 
came  and  stood  in  the  midst  of  them 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 


23 


and  said,  ".  .  .  Peace  be  unto  you. 

"Then  saith  he  to  Thomas,  Reach 
hither  thy  finger,  and  behold  my  hands; 
and  reach  hither  thy  hand,  and  thrust 
it  into  my  side:  and  be  not  faithless,  but 
believing."  (John  20:26-27.) 

The  record  does  not  indicate  that 
Thomas  accepted  this  invitation— this 
loving  rebuke  by  the  Lord.  Thomas 
could  see  the  print  of  the  nails  and  the 
wound  of  the  spear.  He  only  answered: 
".  .  .  My  Lord  and  my  God."  (Ibid., 
20:28.)  Now  he  believed,  but  Thomas 
had  missed  the  highest  form  of  faith. 

"Jesus  saith  unto  him,  Thomas,  be- 
cause thou  hast  seen  me,  thou  hast 
believed:  blessed  are  they  that  have  not 
seen,  and  yet  have  believed."  (Ibid., 
20:29.) 

This  occurrence  stands  as  one  of  the 
great  lessons  of  all  times.  Thomas  had 
said,  "To  see  is  to  believe,"  but  Christ 
answered:  "To  believe  is  to  see." 

Faith  has  always  been  a  necessary 
condition  of  a  righteous  life.  As  we  read 
through  the  books  of  the  Old  Testament, 
we  are  impressed  by  the  faith  that 
motivated  the  prophets  and  righteous 
men,  the  saints  of  old,  to  endure  the 
trials  which  came  to  them.  The  books 
of  the  New  Testament  are  replete  with 
the  teachings  of  the  Savior  concerning 
faith  and  examples  of  the  effect  of  faith 
in  the  lives  of  individuals.  These  writings 
also  set  forth  the  disappointment  and 
tragedy  that  come  where  faith  is  lacking. 

There  are  many  things  which  are 
invisible  to  our  senses  and  not  subject 
to  positive  proof.  The  scientific  ap- 
proach to  proof  is  by  experimentation  in 
the  laboratory.  The  result  of  this  scien- 
tific method  has  a  greater  influence 
upon  our  thinking  than  we  realize,  be- 
cause it  produces  positive  proof  resulting 
in  knowledge.  We  cannot  overlook  the 
great  good  this  approach  by  science  has 
upon  the  lives  of  persons,  but  how  about 
those  things  which  lie  outside  of  the 
realm  of  positive,  tangible  proof?  This 
question  brings  us  to  the  higher  law. 
It  is  through  the  assurance  that  comes 
from  faith. 

The  classic  example  of  faith  is  ascribed 
to  the  Apostle  Paul  in  his  Epistle  to 
the  Hebrews:  "Now  faith  is  the  sub- 
stance of  things  hoped  for,  the  evidence 
of  things  not  seen."  (Heb.  11:1.) 

This  statement  does  not  presuppose 


a  perfect  knowledge,  but  describes  faith 
as  that  which  gives  to  one  an  assur- 
ance or  a  confidence  in  things  which 
are  yet  in  the  future.  These  things 
may  be  in  existence,  but  it  is  through 
faith  they  are  realized.  Faith  gives  a 
feeling  of  confidence  in  that  which  is  not 
visible  or  susceptible  of  positive  proof. 

It  would  appear  that  Thomas  had  lost 
his  confidence  in  the  future.  He  looked 
to  the  past.  He  wanted  proof  of  that 
which  was  not  then  visible.  Those  who 
lose  or  lack  faith,  live  in  the  past — 
there  is  loss  of  hope  for  the  future. 
What  a  great  change  comes  into  the 
life  of  one  who  finds  an  abiding  faith 
to  give  assurance  and  confidence. 

If  we  turn  back  to  the  ninth  chapter 
of  John,  we  read  of  another  incident 
that  took  place  in  Jerusalem  in  which  a 
man  who  had  been  born  blind  received 
his  sight.  It  was  the  Sabbath  day,  and 
Jesus  was  apparently  in  the  vicinity  of 
the  temple  when  he  saw  the  blind  man, 
and  his  disciples  asked  him: 

".  .  .  Master,  who  did  sin,  this  man, 
or  his  parents,  that  he  was  born  blind? 

"Jesus  answered,  Neither  hath  this 
man  sinned,  nor  his  parents:  but  that 
the  works  of  God  should  be  made  mani- 
fest in  him. 

"I  must  work  the  works  of  him  that 
sent  me,  while  it  is  day:  the  night 
cometh,  when  no  man  can  work. 

"As  long  as  I  am  in  the  world,  I  am 
the  light  of  the  world."  (John  9:2-5.) 

Jesus  then  spat  on  the  ground  and 
made  clay  of  the  spittle  mixed  with  the 
dust  of  the  earth.  He  anointed  the 
eyes  of  the  blind  man  with  the  clay 
and  told  him  to  go  wash  in  the  pool  of 
Siloam.  If  this  had  been  Thomas,  would 
he  have  gone  as  he  had  been  com- 
manded or  would  he  have  asked  the 
question:  "What  good  can  come  from 
washing  in  the  stagnant  waters  of  that 
dirty  pool?"  or  "What  medicinal  proper- 
ties are  there  in  saliva  mixed  with  the 
dust  of  the  earth?"  These  would  seem 
to  be  reasonable  questions,  but  if  the 
blind  man  had  doubted  and  questioned, 
he  would  still  be  blind.  Having  faith, 
he  believed  and  did  as  he  was  directed. 
He  went  and  washed  in  the  pool  and 
came  back  seeing.    To  believe  is  to  see. 

A  miracle  had  taken  place.  A  man 
who  had  been  blind  from  the  day  of 
his   birth  was   caused   to   see.  The 


24  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  S 

neighbors  and  the  Pharisees  were  aston- 
ished and  asked  how  it  happened. 

"He  answered  and  said,  A  man  that 
is  called  Jesus  made  clay,  and  anointed 
mine  eyes,  and  said  unto  me,  Go  to  the 
pool  of  Siloam,  and  wash:  and  I  went 
and  washed,  and  I  received  sight." 
(Ibid.,  9:11.) 

It  was  the  Sabbath  day  when  Jesus 
made  the  clay  and  opened  the  eyes  of 
the  blind  man.  Some  of  the  Pharisees 
said  he  could  not  be  a  man  of  God 
because  he  did  not  keep  the  Sabbath 
day.  Others  asked  how  a  man  who 
was  such  a  sinner  could  perform  a 
miracle.  Even  though  they  could  see, 
they  would  not  believe.  The  blind  man 
was  asked:  "What  sayest  thou  of  him?" 
He  answered:  "He  is  a  prophet."  Still 
they  did  not  believe  and  called  the  par- 
ents of  the  blind  man  and  asked  them: 
"Is  this  your  son,  who  ye  say  was  born 
blind?  How  then  doth  he  now  see?" 
His  parents  were  afraid  to  answer  for 
fear  of  being  put  out  of  the  synagogue 
if  they  should  confess  that  the  one  who 
performed  the  miracle  was  Christ,  so 
they  said,  "He  is  of  age;  ask  him."  And 
the  blind  man  said,  "Whether  he  be  a 
sinner  or  no,  I  know  not:  one  thing  I 
know,  that,  whereas  I  was  blind,  now  I 
see."  They  said  to  him,  "Thou  art  his 
disciple,"  and  they  shut  the  door  of 
the  synagogue  against  him.  (See 
Ibid.,  9:14-34.) 

When  Jesus  heard  that  the  blind  man 
had  been  cast  out,  he  found  him  and 
said: 

".  .  .  Dost  thou  believe  on  the  Son 
of  God? 

"He  answered  and  said,  Who  is  he, 
Lord,  that  I  might  believe  on  him? 

"And  Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  hast 
both  seen  him,  and  it  is  he  that  talketh 
with  thee. 

"And  he  said,  Lord,  I  believe.  And 
he  worshipped  him. 

"And  Jesus  said,  For  judgment  I  am 
come  into  this  world,  that  they  which 
see  not  might  see;  and  that  they  which 
see  might  be  made  blind."  (Ibid., 
9:35-39.) 


First  Day 

The  blind  man  believed  and  was 
permitted  to  see.  Thomas  refused  to 
believe  until  after  he  could  see.  The 
world  is  full  of  Thomases,  but  there  are 
many  like  the  blind  man  of  Jerusalem. 
Missionaries  of  the  Church  meet  both 
of  these  every  day  as  they  carry  their 
message  to  the  world,  the  message  of  the 
restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  They 
bear  witness  to  the  fact  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  God  has 
spoken  to  his  children  in  these  latter 
days,  that  there  is  a  prophet  of  God  on 
the  earth  today,  that  the  gospel  has  been 
restored  in  its  fulness.  Some  believe,  have 
faith,  and  are  baptized.  Some  will  not 
accept  because  they  cannot  see  or  feel. 

There  is  no  positive,  concrete,  tangible 
evidence  that  God  lives,  yet  millions 
have  a  knowledge  that  he  does  through 
that  faith  which  constitutes  the  evidence 
of  things  unseen.  Many  say  to  the  mis- 
sionaries, "I  would  accept  of  baptism 
if  I  could  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
visited  by  the  Father  and  the  Son." 
For  this  fact  there  is  no  positive,  con- 
crete, tangible  evidence,  but  to  those 
who  are  touched  by  the  Spirit,  faith  will 
stand  in  the  place  of  such  evidence  of 
things  unseen.  Remember  the  words  of 
the  crucified  Master  as  he  stood  before 
Thomas: 

".  .  .  blessed  are  they  that  have  not 
seen,  and  yet  have  believed."  (Ibid., 
20:29.) 

To  believe  is  to  see. 

I  add  my  witness  to  the  testimonies 
of  the  thousands  of  missionaries  that 
God  does  live,  that  Jesus  is  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  that  those  who  will  be- 
lieve through  faith  will  be  caused  to 
see,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter,  a  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  Elder  John 
Longden,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will 
now  speak  to  us.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Bishop  Victor  L.  Brown. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


"Blessed  are  the  peacemakers:  for  they 
shall  be  called  the  children  of  God." 
(Matthew  5:9.) 

From  this  scripture,  which  is  a  part 
of  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  I  gather 
there  is  a  peace  to  be  had.  It  is  avail- 
able for  all  mankind  if  we  desire  it. 
Peace  can  be  had.  We  must  study  and 
learn  of  God's  desires  for  us.  We  must 
pray  about  it.  Indeed,  we  must  live 
the  law;  then  we  have  a  peace  in  our 
hearts  and  will  truly  be  peacemakers, 
the  children  of  God. 

I  believe  in  the  scriptures  as  they  have 
been  restored.  I  believe  that  we  can 
have  peace  in  a  troubled  world.  I  be- 
lieve we  can  have  peace  in  a  troubled 
home.  I  believe  we  can  have  peace  in 
a  troubled  life.  It  can  be  had  for  the 
price  which  I  have  stated;  not  for  money 
nor  for  any  material  amount. 

I  said  we  must  study  and  do  the 
things  which  will  make  for  peace.  Paul, 
the  apostle,  in  his  epistle  to  the  Romans 
said:  "Let  us  therefore  follow  after  the 
things  which  make  for  peace,  and  things 
wherewith  one  may  edify  another. 

"For  the  kingdom  of  God  is  .  .  .  right- 
eousness and  peace,  and  joy  in  the  Holy 
Ghost."  (Romans  14:17,  19.) 

Paul  had  an  evidence  of  peace.  Here 
was  a  man,  yes,  who  had  fought  the 
Christ,  who  had  fought  the  principles 
which  will  bring  peace.  Yet  after  he 
had  received  conviction  of  the  truthful- 
ness of  the  Savior's  message  and  of  his 
divinity  as  the  Son  of  God,  he  received 
a  peace  in  his  heart,  and  he  could  not 
be  swayed  from  righteousness  but  used 
his  energies,  his  talents,  in  going  for- 
ward to  teach  this  great  message  of 
which  he  received  a  conviction.  Yes, 
Paul  did  the  things  which  will  bring 
peace  into  the  hearts  of  all  mankind. 

Peace  can  only  come  to  individuals, 
communities,  states,  nations,  and  the 
world  by  the  acceptance  of  the  greatest 
story  ever  told,  by  acceptance  of  the 
greatest  life  that  was  ever  lived,  by 
acceptance  of  the  greatest  example 
that  was  ever  shown,  by  acceptance  of 
the  greatest  Teacher  who  ever  taught, 
the  author  of  salvation  and  exalta- 


tion, the  Prince  of  Peace,  Jesus  the 
Christ,  the  Divine  Son  of  God.  This 
I  know  in  every  fiber  of  my  being. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  always 
been  the  gospel  of  peace,  regardless  of 
when  there  has  been  a  dispensation  of 
the  gospel  upon  the  earth.  I  recall  the 
words  of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  which  indicated  that  there 
is  no  change  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  even  in  this  dispensation. 

In  the  midst  of  great  persecution 
when  the  Saints  were  being  persecuted 
in  June  of  1834  at  Zion's  Camp  on 
Fishing  River,  the  Prophet  Joseph  re- 
ceived a  revelation  from  the  Lord  which 
is  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, ".  .  .  lift  up  an  ensign  of  peace, 
and  make  a  proclamation  of  peace  unto 
the  ends  of  the  earth;  .  .  ."  (D&C 
105:39.) 

We,  here  today,  one  hundred  and 
twenty-eight  years  after  this  revelation 
was  received,  can  visualize  what  has 
been  accomplished  towards  establishing 
peace  in  the  earth.  Think  of  itl  We  see, 
as  we  look  back  over  the  span  of  time 
today,  the  thousands  of  missionaries 
who  have  been  out  in  the  world  to 
carry  this  message  of  peace  to  all  man- 
kind, unselfishly  postponing  their  school- 
ing, leaving  their  homes  and  loved  ones 
to  deliver  this  message  which  will  bring 
peace  into  the  hearts  of  men.  We  vis- 
ualize the  erection  of  fourteen  temples. 
We  visualize  356  stakes  organized 
and  over  3,000  wards  and  many 
branches,  sixty-eight  missions,  approxi- 
mately 12,000  missionaries  out  at  the 
present  time,  delivering  this  message  of 
peace,  literally  to  the  ends  of  the  earth. 

From  study  and  from  prayer,  there 
comes  great  faith  which  motivates  all 
who  have  a  firm  and  solid  conviction 
of  the  truth.  There  is  born  a  desire 
truly  to  be  publishers  of  peace.  I  think 
of  a  mother  writing  to  a  son  in  one  of 
the  missions  which  I  have  visited  in  the 
South  Pacific.  He  had  indicated  to 
her,  knowing  her  circumstances,  a 
widowed  mother,  the  possibility  that 
she  was  having  financial  difficulties,  and 
he  earnestly  wanted  to  stay  to  fill  the 


26 

Friday,  October  5 

two  and  one  half  years  required  in  a 
foreign  mission  where  a  language  has  to 
be  learned.  He  let  me  read  the  letter 
she  wrote  him  in  return:  "Son,  you 
will  stay  out  on  your  mission  even 
if  I  have  to  scrub  floors  to  earn  money 
sufficient  to  keep  you  there." 

Then  I  think  of  a  husband  and  wife 
who  had  five  sons  go  out  into  the  mis- 
sion field;  the  sixth  son  had  reached  the 
required  age  to  go.  Not  having  suffi- 
cient funds,  they  went  to  the  bank  and 
placed  a  mortgage  on  their  home  to 
assure  him  finances  to  fill  his  mission 
that  he  might  carry  this  message  of 
peace  to  mankind.  I  am  grateful  for 
that  kind  of  faith. 

In  May  we  had  a  missionary  confer- 
ence on  the  island  of  Rarotonga  in  the 
Cook  Islands.  All  the  missionaries  had 
arrived  but  two.  These  two  were  nine 
days  on  the  water,  coming  over  640 
miles  in  a  small  craft,  being  buffeted 
about  the  Pacific,  and  I  want  to  tell  you, 
you  can  be  buffeted  about  the  Pacific 
in  those  small  boats,  inter-island  boats. 
One  of  these  young  men  had  been  made 
the  counselor  in  the  mission  presidency 
at  the  conference,  and  it  would  be  un- 
necessary for  him  to  return  to  the  island 
from  which  he  came,  but  he  said,  "The 
work  has  just  begun  there,  and  we  can 
see  real  fruits  of  our  labors,  and  I 
would  like  to  go  back,"  though  he  was 
going  to  be  bounced  about  in  the  same 
type  of  craft  for  another  eight  or  nine 
days.  This  he  did  that  he  might  deliver 
his  message  of  peace  to  the  island  peo- 
ple. Faith-promoting  stories  like  these 
could  be  multiplied  thousands  of  times 
if  time  permitted.  When  peace  comes 
into  our  souls,  we  have  a  desire  to  share 
it  with  others  as  Paul  of  old. 

I  am  grateful  for  all  the  mission  presi- 
dents of  the  South  Pacific.  I  spent  ten 
months  down  there  in  the  last  year  and 
three  quarters.  All  the  mission  presi- 
dents of  the  South  Pacific  are  opening 
up  their  homes,  entertaining  and  teach- 
ing men  of  state,  leaders  of  government, 
business  and  civic  groups,  teaching  this 
message  of  peace.  It  has  been  my  privi- 
lege to  attend  many  such  occasions. 

While  on  one  of  the  large  ocean  liners 
in  the  South  Pacific  recently,  I  visited 
with  the  captain.  He  related  that  he 
had  had  many  of  our  young  missionaries 
on  his  ship  over  the  years,  and  he  said 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

he  had  been  deeply  impressed  with 
young  men  of  such  fine  caliber.  He  had 
observed  they  didn't  drink  tea,  coffee, 
liquor,  or  use  tobacco.  Their  language 
and  conversation  was  clean  and  above- 
board.  They  appeared  to  be  morally 
clean.  They  did  not  take  the  name  of 
the  Lord  in  vain.  He  admired  their 
integrity.  He  said,  "You  have  the  great- 
est peace  corps  in  the  world."  I  sincerely 
thanked  him  for  this  truthful  statement. 
Then  I  reflected,  as  I  thought  of  this 
experience;  not  only  are  the  full-time 
missionaries  a  peace  corps,  but  this  peace 
corps  extends,  including  all  members  of 
the  Church:  truly  the  greatest  peace 
corps  in  the  world  with  the  full  and  true 
message  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  if  all 
members,  individually,  accept  the  re- 
sponsibility to  teach  this  message  of 
peace  by  example  as  well  as  by  precept. 
In  contemplating  this  responsibility  for 
the  entire  membership  of  the  Church, 
I  quote  from  a  talk  given  by  President 
David  O.  McKay:  "The  Gospel  of  Peace 
should  find  its  most  fruitful  effects  in 
the  homes  of  Church  members.  Chil- 
dren to  be  healthy  and  happy  should 
have  a  favorable  mental,  emotional  and 
spiritual  atmosphere  in  the  home.  It  is 
inconsistent  to  go  abroad  to  proclaim 
peace  if  we  have  not  peace  in  our  own 
lives  and  homes."  Truly  the  home 
should  be  the  birthplace  of  peace. 

Then  we  have  a  religion  in  action  as 
we  take  advantage  of  all  the  opportuni- 
ties within  the  Church;  through  the 
priesthood  quorums,  the  Sunday  School, 
Relief  Society,  MIA,  Young  Men's  and 
Young  Women's  organizations,  the 
Primary,  genealogical  organizations,  in- 
stitutes, seminaries,  ward  choirs,  wel- 
fare, building  projects,  to  mention  some 
of  the  organizations  within  the  Church 
which  will  help  to  keep  this  message 
of  peace  alive  in  our  hearts.  Hundreds 
today  are  witnessing  these  demonstra- 
tions for  peace  through  the  true  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  throughout  the  world. 

I  pray  that  we  in  our  hearts  here  and 
all  members  throughout  the  world  will 
recognize  the  opportunity  which  is  ours 
to  serve  individually  and  collectively 
as  messengers  of  peace,  truly  children 
of  our  God.  It  is  within  our  power;  I 
pray  that  we  will  put  aside  any  hos- 
tilities that  there  may  be  individually 
or  collectively  towards  the  teachings  of 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 


27 


the  Master,  that  we  will  accept  them 
fully  and  wholly,  not  in  part,  and  do 
our  utmost  to  show  by  example  our  true 
love  for  this  great  message  of  peace. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  received  a  revela- 
tion from  the  Lord,  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  ".  .  .  the  voice  of  the  Lord 
is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall 
not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear, 
neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  pene- 
trated. 

"And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced 
with  much  sorrow;  for  their  iniquities 
shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops, 
and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed. 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be 
unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these 
last  days."  (D&C  1:2-4.) 

May  we  appreciate  more  fully  through 
the  sessions  of  this  conference,  the  great 


privilege  which  is  ours  to  be  partakers 
of  this  message  of  peace,  that  it  may  be 
in  our  hearts,  in  our  cities,  in  our  towns, 
in  our  communities,  in  our  states,  in  this 
nation,  and  in  all  nations,  for  I  testify 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know  it  in 
every  fiber  of  my  being,  and  I  pray  that 
we  will  remember  his  words: 

"Peace  I  leave  with  you,  my  peace  I 
give  unto  you:  .  .  ."  (John  14:27.) 

May  this  be  with  us  all  this  day  and 
all  our  mortal  lives,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Savior.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Bishop 
Victor  L.  Brown  of  the  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric will  now  address  us. 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


On  a  Friday  afternoon  just  one  year  ago, 
President  McKay  called  me  to  be  a 
counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of 
the  Church.  The  day  prior,  I  was  at 
home  in  Chicago  quite  secure  in  the 
feeling  that  we  had  moved  for  the  last 
time.  I  was  happy  with  my  work  and 
the  opportunities  that  lay  ahead.  I 
was  completing  my  twenty-first  year 
with  a  wonderful  organization.  We  had 
moved  to  Chicago  from  Denver  eleven 
months  earlier  and  had  just  completed 
our  new  home. 

It  was  about  9  pm  that  Thursday 
evening  when  I  received  a  long  distance 
telephone  call  from  Salt  Lake  City.  The 
caller  asked  if  I  planned  to  attend  gen- 
eral conference  the  next  morning.  I 
told  him  no.  He  said,  "Could  you?" 
And  I  said,  "I  suppose  I  can  if  you 
would  like,"  whereupon  he  said,  "The 
President  of  the  Church  would  like  to 
see  you  at  eight  o'clock  tomorrow  morn- 
ing in  his  office.  Now  get  a  good 
night's  sleep  because  it  is  probably  the 
last  one  you  will  ever  have." 

As  I  sat  in  President  McKay's  private 
office  the  following  day,  and  he  looked 
into  my  eyes,  I  am  sure  my  entire  life 
lay  before  him  as  an  open  book.    I  ex- 


pected him  to  thank  me  for  coming  and 
wish  me  a  pleasant  journey  home,  but 
he  didn't.  Rather,  he  asked  me  to  serve 
as  a  counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric, notwithstanding  all  of  my  human 
failings. 

I  testify  to  you  with  all  my  heart  that 
a  prophet  of  God  asked  me  to  serve.  As 
far  as  I  know,  that  is  the  only  qualifica- 
tion I  have,  but  this  is  enough  for  me. 

These  past  twelve  months  have  been 
filled  with  the  most  wonderful  experi- 
ences of  my  life.  I  am  so  grateful  to  the 
young  people  of  the  Church  for  the 
inspiration  they  are  to  me.  They  give 
me  courage  to  carry  on  in  my  responsi- 
bilities. It  thrills  me  to  learn  of  their 
faith  and  devotion  to  the  Lord.  I  am 
confident  they  have  the  kind  of  courage 
our  pioneer  forefathers  had.  They  have 
the  kind  of  courage  that  Carlyle  referred 
to  when  he  said:  "The  courage  we  desire 
and  prize  is  not  the  courage  to  die  de- 
cently, but  to  live  manfully." 

The  same  kind  Whitehead  had  in 
mind  when  he  said:  "True  courage  is 
not  the  brutal  force  of  vulgar  heroes  but 
the  firm  resolve  of  virtue  and  reason." 

Let  me  illustrate  what  I  mean  by 
telling  you  of  three  young  people  who 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


28 

Friday,  October  5 

have  been  an  inspiration  to  me.  The 
first  one  is  a  young  man  nineteen  years 
of  age.  We  will  call  him  Bill.  All 
through  high  school  Bill  was  a  black 
sheep,  using  his  own  words.  He  hung 
around  the  pool  hall  with  the  gang.  Bill 
did  what  the  gang  wanted  to  do,  even 
though  sometimes  he  knew  it  wasn't  the 
right  thing.  Bill  followed  the  line  of 
least  resistance.  You  couldn't  really 
say  that  Bill  was  an  individual.  He 
didn't  do  much  thinking  for  himself. 
He  let  the  gang  do  his  thinking  for  him. 

Bill  said  to  me,  "Bishop  Brown,  I  have 
just  wasted  nineteen  years  of  my  life. 
I  have  at  last  come  to  the  realization 
that  there  is  something  in  life  worth 
more  than  being  just  one  of  the  gang. 
I  want  to  make  something  of  myself.  I 
want  to  be  an  individual." 

Something  or  somebody  had  touched 
Bill  and  given  him  the  courage  to  think 
for  himself,  the  courage  to  break  away 
from  the  gang  and  the  activities  and 
habits  that  generally  go  along  with  a 
pool  hall  environment.  Bill  decided  that 
he  wanted  to  stand  on  his  own  two  feet, 
to  be  a  man.  He  now  has  the  courage 
to  live  manfully. 

Nancy  is  a  lovely  young  lady  about 
fifteen  years  of  age.  When  she  was  a 
little  girl,  she  used  to  visit  her  aunt 
on  the  farm.  One  day  while  she  was 
visiting  her  aunt,  she  overheard  a  neigh- 
bor lady  comment  on  how  poor  Nancy's 
family  was.  This  comment  made  a  deep 
impression  on  her,  and  as  she  told  us 
the  story  she  said: 

"My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  not 
poor.  I  have  never  been  poor.  I  have 
a  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
I  know  that  it  is  true.  How  could  I 
be  poor?" 

It  is  young  ladies  like  Nancy  who 
convince  me  that  the  children  of  the 
next  generation  will  have  mothers  with 
the  same  kind  of  courage  that  our  pio- 
neer mothers  had. 

And  now  Gregg.  Gregg  is  one  of 
the  most  alert,  intelligent,  pleasant 
young  men  I  have  ever  met.  Just  talk- 
ing to  him  and  learning  of  his  ambitions 
and  his  goals  was  an  inspiration.  At  the 
conclusion  of  our  visit  I  said  to  him, 
"You  must  have  wonderful  parents." 

He  flushed  for  a  moment,  and  then 
lie  said  quietly,  "When  I  was  a  little 
boy,  my  mother  and  father  were  di- 


First  Day 

vorced.  I  do  not  know  my  father.  My 
mother  remarried  and  compromised 
some  of  her  principles.  She  is  a  bitter 
woman  now."  Courage?  Courage  to  rise 
above  one's  environment,  even  though 
that  environment  might  be  one's  own 
home?   Gregg  had  it. 

I  am  so  grateful  to  Bill,  Nancy,  and 
Gregg  and  the  many  other  young  men 
and  young  women  of  this  Church  who 
are  an  inspiration  in  my  life.  I  have 
the  utmost  confidence  in  them,  and 
because  of  them  I  have  implicit  faith 
in  the  future. 

Another  of  the  great  blessings  that 
has  come  to  me  in  the  last  twelve 
months  has  been  the  association  of  these 
wonderful  men — the  General  Authori- 
ties of  the  Church.  Just  to  be  in  the 
shadow  and  under  the  influence  of 
President  McKay  is  a  blessing  beyond 
description.  To  receive  instruction  and 
guidance  from  his  counselors  and  from 
the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  is  a  blessing 
and  a  prized  opportunity.  To  feel  the 
warmth,  friendship,  and  the  brotherly 
love  of  each  of  the  General  Authorities 
is  one  of  the  most  satisfying  feelings 
and  experiences  that  could  come  to  a 
man. 

I  am  deeply  grateful  to  Bishop  Van- 
denberg  for  his  confidence  in  me.  We 
have  discussed  many  times  the  wonder- 
ful experiences  we  had  as  fellow 
counselors  in  the  Denver  Stake  presi- 
dency under  the  tutelage  of  President 
Edward  E.  Drury,  Jr. 

I  love  Bishop  Simpson  and  appreciate 
so  much  the  wonderful  feeling  of  unity 
that  encompasses  all  that  we  do  in  our 
responsibilities.  I  am  thankful  to  the 
Lord  for  the  blessing  that  we  have  re- 
ceived in  our  home  of  five  wonderful 
children,  each  of  whom  loves  his 
Heavenly  Father. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  heritage,  for  my 
parents  and  their  righteous  lives,  and 
for  all  of  my  forebears.  I  thank  my 
Heavenly  Father  for  all  of  these  bless- 
ings. I  know  that  he  lives,  and  that 
he  is  directing  the  affairs  of  his  Church 
today  just  as  surely  as  he  did  in  days 
of  old. 

I  leave  you  this  testimony  humbly  and 
bear  it  with  all  my  heart,  asking  our 
Heavenly  Father  to  bless  us  all,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


29 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Victor  L.  Brown  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
The  Congregation  and  Chorus  will  now 
join  in  singing,  "Come,  O  Thou  King 
of  Kings,"  conducted  by  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen.  After  the  singing, 
Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  will  address  us. 


Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  and  the  congregation,  "Come, 
O  Thou  King  of  Kings." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next  speaker. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Franklin 
D.  Richards,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  President  Moyle, 
President  Brown,  President  Smith,  and 
brethren  of  the  General  Authorities,  my 
dear  brothers  and  sisters  and  friends: 

When  one  occupies  this  position,  he 
is  very  anxious  that  he  might  say  some- 
thing that  would  be  appropriate  and 
fitting.  I  sincerely  pray  that  what  I 
might  say  may  be  thought-provoking 
and  appropriate.  I  can  assure  you  that 
there  is  always  much  prayer  and  great 
fasting  that  precedes  a  conference  such 
as  this.  These  wonderful  Singing 
Mothers  do  something  to  us  and  for  us. 
They  are  beautiful  to  see  and  beautiful 
to  hear.  We  pray  that  their  husbands 
and  their  families  who  are  home  will 
be  well  and  protected  until  they  return. 
Surely  they  must  be  proud  of  them. 

Truly  these  are  perilous  and  critical 
and  very  unusual  times,  both  on  the 
local,  national,  and  international  level. 
There  are  many  problems  that  are  con- 
fusing, and  the  right  answer  to  these 
problems  is  always  difficult  to  find. 

Abraham  Lincoln,  when  he  was 
President,  had  problems,  and  it  was 
very  difficult  for  him  to  find  the  answer. 
May  I  refer  you  to  one  experience 
among  many  that  he  had  and  the 
method  that  he  used  in  the  solution 
of  this  problem?  I  quote:  "General 
Sickles  had  noticed  that  before  the 
battle  of  Gettysburg,  upon  the  result  of 
which,  perhaps,  the  fate  of  this  nation 
hung,  President  Lincoln  was  apparently 
free  from  the  oppressive  care  which 
frequently  weighed  him  down.  After 
it  was  all  past,  the  general  asked  Presi- 
dent Lincoln  how  it  was  that  he  felt  so 
free  from  the  oppressive  care  previously 
noticeable.  He  answered: 


"  Well,  I  will  tell  you  how  it  was.  In 
the  pinch  of  your  campaign  up  there, 
when  everybody  seemed  panic-stricken 
and  nobody  could  tell  what  was  going 
to  happen,  oppressed  by  the  gravity  of 
affairs,  I  went  to  my  room  one  day  and 
I  locked  the  door  and  I  got  down  on  my 
knees  before  Almighty  God  and  prayed 
to  him  mightily  for  victory  at  Gettys- 
burg. I  told  him  this  war  was  his  war 
and  our  cause  was  his  cause,  but  we 
could  not  stand  another  Fredericksburg 
or  Chancellorsville.  Then  and  there  I 
made  a  solemn  vow  to  Almighty  God 
that  if  he  would  stand  by  our  boys  at 
Gettysburg,  I  would  stand  by  him.  After 
that,  I  don't  know  how  it  was,  and  I 
cannot  explain  it,  but  soon  a  sweet 
comfort  crept  into  my  soul.  The  feeling 
that  God  had  taken  this  whole  business 
into  his  own  hands  and  that  things 
would  go  right  at  Gettysburg,  and  that 
is  why  I  had  no  fears  about  you.'  " 

It  would  be  well  if  all  of  us  in  our 
respective  appointments  and  responsi- 
bilities would  get  down  on  our  knees 
and  ask  Almighty  God  to  guide  us, 
whether  we  be  in  government  service  or 
education;  whether  we  be  in  business, 
industry  or  church  work.  It  may  be 
that  as  individuals  we  may  become  too 
self-sufficient  and  rely  on  our  own  wis- 
dom; if  so,  we  are  likely  to  fail. 

I  quote  from  General  Douglas  Mac- 
Arthur,  wherein  he  is  reported  to  have 
said,  in  the  same  vein  as  President 
Lincoln  used:  "General  MacArthur, 
speaking,  gave  thanks  to  God,  who  he 
said,  'Has  so  often  guided  me  through 
the  shadow  of  death  and  who  nerved 
me  in  my  hours  of  lonely  vigil  and 
deadly  decisions.' " 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  5 

Following  are  parts  of  an  article  re- 
garding another  great  American,  a  liv- 
ing President,  President  Herbert  Hoover, 
who  is  a  deeply  religious  man:  "After 
the  Supreme  Court  had  issued  its  con- 
troversial edict  regarding  prayers  in  the 
public  schools,  Mr.  Hoover  stated  that 
he  was  shocked  and  incensed.  News- 
paper reporters  asked  him  for  a  com- 
ment, and  he  had  given  them  an 
emphatic  dissent,  which  made  the  front 
pages  of  most  of  the  newspapers." 

And  I  am  quoting  now  from  Presi- 
dent Hoover:  "I  consider  the  Court 
ruling  a  disintegration  of  the  basic 
rights  and  traditions  of  the  American 
people." 

The  reporter  asked  him  if  there  was 
anything  he  would  like  to  say  to  the 
American  people  at  this  time  of  per- 
plexity and  worry  and  danger. 

"Yes,  there  is,"  said  President  Hoover. 
"I  want  to  say  that  despite  our  troubles 
and  the  implacable  enemies  in  many 
parts  of  the  world  who  threaten  our 
way  of  life,  America  will  come  through. 
We  will  come  through  because  we 
have  the  best  form  of  Government  men 
have  ever  devised.  We  have  great 
creative  and  productive  genius  because 
we  have  freedom  and  the  courage  to 
protect  it,  and,  above  all,  we  will  come 
through  because  we  believe  in  God. 
That  is  a  priceless  advantage  that  our 
'atheistic'  enemies  do  not  have." 

President  Hoover's  statement  should 
be  held  sacred  to  all  Americans,  par- 
ticularly, and  I  repeat  again  his  state- 
ment, "We  have  freedom  and  the 
courage  to  protect  it,  and,  above  all,  be- 
cause we  believe  in  God.  That  is  a 
priceless  advantage  that  our  'atheistic' 
enemies  do  not  have."  Therefore,  every 
American  should  appreciate  this  price- 
less gift  and  not  alone  believe  in  God 
but  accept  his  teachings  and  accept  the 
principles  of  truth. 

Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  had  this  to 
say:  "The  true  test  of  civilization  is  not 
the  census  or  the  size  of  the  cities,  nor 
the  crops,  nor  the  wealth;  No!  But  the 
kind  of  men  the  country  produces." 

That  reminds  us  again  of  Abraham 
Lincoln,  George  Washington,  General 
Douglas  MacArthur,  Thomas  Jefferson, 
Woodrow  Wilson,  and  many  others. 
Will  it  be  said  of  this  nation  in  years 
to  come  that  men  such  as  these  have 


First  Dau 

been  produced  by  our  generation? 

Now  again  with  reference  to  the 
ruling  of  the  Supreme  Court  referred 
to,  and  I  am  quoting  from  an  opinion 
survey  entitled,  "Vast  Majority  of  Par- 
ents Favor  Public  School  Religion." 
These  findings  came  to  light  in  a  nation- 
wide survey  on  one  of  the  most  contro- 
versial domestic  issues  of  recent  years. 
The  following  question  was  asked  of 
the  group  most  directly  involved,  the 
parents,  who  will  be  sending  their 
children  to  public  elementary  and  high 
schools  this  year.   Here  is  the  question: 

"Do  you  approve  or  disapprove  re- 
ligious observances  in  public  schools?" 

Eighty  percent  of  the  parents  said, 
"Yes,  we  approve  religious  observances 
in  public  schools."  Fourteen  percent 
stated  that  they  disapproved  and  six 
percent  had  no  opinion. 

That  will  give  us  hope,  provided  the 
parents  will  follow  through  and  make 
this  part  of  their  lives  and  the  lives  of 
their  children. 

Now  to  gain  some  idea  as  to  what 
religious  observances  go  on  in  the  home, 
the  survey  asked  this  opinion  of  parents 
regarding  the  saying  of  grace  before 
meals.    Here  is  the  question: 

"At  your  family  meals  at  home,  does 
anyone  say  grace,  or  give  thanks  to  God 
aloud,  before  the  meals?" 

Sixty-nine  percent  of  the  American 
homes  said,  "Yes,  we  say  grace."  Thirty- 
one  percent  said,  "We  do  not  say 
grace." 

When  the  views  of  all  the  people  of 
this  survey,  not  just  the  parents  of  pub- 
lic school  children,  but  everyone  taken 
into  consideration,  here  is  how  the  sur- 
vey divides  on  the  question  of  religious 
observances  in  public  schools: 

Seventy-nine  percent  approves  re- 
ligion in  public  schools;  fourteen  percent 
disapproves,  and  seven  percent  has  no 
opinion. 

Here  again  we  have  great  hope. 

Quoting  from  another  prominent  man 
whose  name  I  do  not  recall  at  this  time, 
speaking  on  the  subject,  "This  Nation 
Under  God":  "Our  way  of  life  has  been 
guarded  by  men  of  granite  with  Bible 
in  hand,  but  we  stand  to  lose  this  way 
of  life  through  the  neglect  of  our 
devotion  to  God  and  his  truth." 

Now  quoting  from  another  prominent 
newspaper  on  "The  Right  to  Pray": 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


31 


"Readers  have  shown  their  dismay 
over  the  Supreme  Court's  decision  re- 
garding prayer  in  the  public  schools. 
They  have  voiced  their  apprehension 
that  this  decision  will  open  the  door  for 
still  further  rulings  against  public  ex- 
pressions of  the  belief  in  God,  on  which 
this  country  was  founded." 

When  the  Supreme  Court  rendered 
their  decision,  the  writer  states:  "I 
feared  the  implication  that  would 
follow."  And  then  he  goes  farther,  and 
I  quote:  "Now  comes  word  that  another 
certain  organization  is  prepared  to 
challenge  the  'Under  God'  provision  in 
the  Pledge  of  Allegiance." 

The  seriousness  of  this  may  go  on  and 
on,  and  I  further  quote  from  him: 
"I  deplore  and  decry  this  outrageous 
stand  and  I  will  do  everything  humanly 
possible  to  fight  any  repeal  of  this 
acknowledgement  of  our  abiding  faith 
in  God.  Everything  possible  should  be 
done  in  behalf  of  the  constitutional 
amendment  legalizing  the  right  of  the 
people  to  publicly  express  their  belief 
in  God  through  nonsectarian  prayer  or 
the  simple  affirmation  of  faith  contained 
in  the  Pledge  of  Allegiance." 

The  President  of  the  United  States 
after  that  ruling  was  made  encouraged 
the  people  of  this  country  to  engage 
themselves  more  fervently  in  prayer. 

I  quote  further  from  a  very  promi- 
nent Australian  physician,  who  makes  a 
personal  appeal,  wherein  he  stated, 
"Every  American  should  also  establish 
a  personal  relationship  to  God,  to  coun- 
try, and  to  freedom." 

Prime  Minister  Macmillan  made  a 
statement  as  he  addressed  a  prominent 
audience,  and  I  quote  from  him:  "Mate- 
rially, we  must  try  to  create  a  philosophy 
that  is  not  only  anti-Communist  but 
which  is  positive  and  dynamic — believ- 
ing that  the  true  brotherhood  of  man 
can  stem  only  from  sincere  belief  in  the 
fatherhood  of  God." 

I  think  we  are  all  very  proud  of  that 
statement  coming  from  Prime  Minister 
Macmillan. 

Now  I  know  that  God  is  our  Father. 
I  know  that  he  lives.  I  am  wondering 
just  what  our  forebears  would  think  of 
us.  As  a  boy  I  was  fortunate  enough 
to  have  teachers,  and  although  I  do  not 
remember  many  things  they  taught  me, 
I  do  remember  seeing  those  teachers  in 


front  of  that  class  bowing  their  heads 
and  asking  God  to  bless  us.  I  am  very 
grateful  for  the  faith  of  those  teachers. 

I  am  very  grateful  that  prayer  has 
been  the  foundation,  not  alone  of  this 
Church,  but  also  of  this  nation. 

What  can  we  do?  We  can  do  as  the 
President  of  the  United  States  has  asked 
us  to  do— that  we,  ourselves,  devote 
ourselves  more  humbly,  more  generally 
to  the  principle  of  prayer. 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  set 
the  example,  that  we  shall  have  the  cour- 
age to  stand  for  those  things  that  we 
know  are  right. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  message  of  our 
President  this  morning.  I  am  only 
sorry  that  there  are  so  many  people  of 
the  Church  and  who  are  not  of  the 
Church  that  have  not  had  the  pleasure 
and  the  privilege  and  the  blessing  of 
knowing  and  seeing  and  shaking  hands 
and  visiting  with  the  prophet  of  God, 
our  beloved  President  David  O.  McKay, 
whom  we  regard  without  any  reserva- 
tions as  a  great  man  in  his  own  right, 
and  a  spiritual  leader,  a  servant  of  God. 
I  testify  to  you  that  I  know  that  God 
speaks  to  him  and  to  the  prophets  of 
God  in  this  age  as  well  as  he  did  to  the 
prophets  of  old. 

May  we  have  the  strength  to  extend 
our  love  and  our  friendship  to  those 
who  perhaps  need  encouragement!  I  am 
thinking  now  of  a  very  wonderful  man 
in  this  Church  who  had  a  brother  who 
was  inactive  in  the  Church  for  years. 
The  brother  who  was  active  was  sorry 
for  him  and  tried  every  way  he  could  to 
help  him,  but  to  no  avail.  Fortunately, 
the  inactive  brother  moved  into  a  new 
ward.  When  his  name  was  read  out  in 
that  congregation,  the  bishop  of  that 
ward  recognized  the  name  and  called  his 
brother,  whom  he  knew,  that  night  and 
said,  "Was  he  your  brother  who  just 
moved  into  our  ward?"  The  man 
said,  "Yes,  he  is  my  brother,  and  I  am 
going  to  tell  you  something.  I  do 
not  know  whether  he  will  come  to 
church  or  not  because  he  has  some 
habits  that  keep  him  away  from 
church."  This  bishop  said,  "But  he 
was  here  today."  Then  the  brother 
said  to  the  bishop,  "Will  you  do  every- 
thing you  can  for  him?"  And  the  bishop 
said,  "Of  course,  I  will."  We  have  some 
wonderful  bishops  in  this  Church. 


32 

Friday,  October  5 

The  bishop  did.  He  called  that  man 
in  and  talked  to  him,  and  the  man 
said,  "I  cannot  become  active.  I  do  not 
know  that  I  can  come  to  church  regu- 
larly." The  bishop  asked  him  why.  He 
said,  "Because  I  have  some  habits  that 
I  cannot  quit."  The  bishop  talked  to 
him  as  any  bishop  would.  He  said  to 
the  man,  "Oh,  I  think  you  can  quit. 
What  is  the  first  one?" 

"Well,"  he  said,  "I  have  smoked  for 
many  years,  and  I  can't  quit  it." 

The  bishop  said,  "Oh,  yes,  you  can, 
because  I  will  help  you." 

This  man  was  grateful  to  the  bishop 
and  said,  "What  can  you  do,  bishop?" 

"Will  you  try  to  quit  today?"  the 
bishop  asked. 

"Yes,  I  will  quit  today." 

"Then,"  the  bishop  said,  "I  will  fast 
and  pray  for  you." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

"Would  you  do  this  for  me,  Bishop?" 
the  man  asked. 

"Yes,"  replied  the  bishop,  "I  would 
do  that  for  you." 

The  bishop  did  fast  and  pray  for  sev- 
eral days  for  this  man,  and  I  do  not  need 
to  tell  you  that  the  man  has  not  in- 
dulged since  the  fasting  of  that  won- 
derful bishop. 

God  bless  you  bishops  that  you  may 
take  that  same  interest  in  those  men 
who  need  you,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
Franklin  D.  Richards,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  be  our  concluding  speaker. 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  pray 
that  I  may  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
with  me  as  I  speak  to  you  this  after- 
noon. I  bring  you  love  and  greetings 
from  the  missionaries  and  Saints  of  the 
eight  eastern  American  missions. 

As  I  travel  throughout  the  Church, 
members  continually  ask  me  this  ques- 
tion: "Tell  me  more  about  the  new 
missionary  program.  Do  converts  really 
understand  the  gospel  and  are  they 
staying  in  the  Church?" 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  as  we  have 
heard  here  today,  this  is  not  a  new 
missionary  plan — it  is  in  effect  the  sim- 
ple plan  which  was  used  by  Peter, 
Paul,  Joseph  Smith,  Wilford  Woodruff, 
Parley  P.  Pratt,  and  other  outstanding 
missionaries  throughout  the  history  of 
the  Church  in  all  dispensations.  Great 
missionaries  have  been  characterized  by 
their  simplicity  and  their  directness. 
The  Savior  has  told  us  that  this  is  a  day 
of  warning  and  not  a  day  of  many 
words.  (See  D&C  63:58.) 

Thus,  Peter's  sermon  on  the  day  of 
Pentecost  was  Christ  and  him  cruci- 
fied. They  were  pricked  in  their  hearts 
and  said  unto  Peter,  "Men  and  breth- 
ren, what  shall  we  do?"  Then  Peter 
said  unto  them — "Repent,  and  be  bap- 


tized every  one  of  you  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  .  .  ."  (See  Acts  2:37-38.) 

Through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
the  Savior  has  given  us  this  charge, 
".  .  .  go  among  this  people,  and  say 
unto  them,  like  unto  mine  apostle  of 
old,  whose  name  was  Peter: 

"Believe  on  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  .  .  . 

"Repent  and  be  baptized.  .  .  ."  (D&C 
49:11-13.) 

Our  beloved  Prophet  David  O. 
McKay,  has  counseled  that  every  mem- 
ber should  be  a  missionary. 

Right  here  in  Salt  Lake  City,  a  stake 
missionary  while  eating  lunch  at  a 
counter  met  a  young  tourist  en  route 
to  the  Seattle  Fair.  He  asked  him  what 
he  knew  about  the  Mormon  Church, 
and  if  he  would  like  to  know  more.  He 
said  he  would  like  to  know  more.  Dur- 
ing the  next  few  days  the  stake  mission- 
aries gave  him  the  six  discussions.  He 
postponed  his  trip  to  Seattle  and  was 
baptized. 

The  Savior  has  said  that  the  first 
great  commandment  is  to  love  the  Lord, 
and  the  second  is  to  love  our  neighbors 
as  ourselves.  There  is  no  better  way 
to  evidence  our  love  to  our  Heavenly 


ELDER  FRANKL 

Father  and  to  our  neighbors  than  by 
sharing  the  gospel. 

While  attending  a  stake  conference  in 
Long  Beach,  California,  I  was  told  that 
one  of  the  wards  had  a  project  of 
gathering  newspapers.  A  young  boy, 
while  collecting  papers  from  the  neigh- 
bors, asked  the  "Golden  Questions." 
Two  families  said  they  would  like  to 
know  more  about  the  Church  and  were 
later  taught  and  baptized  by  the 
missionaries. 

The  effective  use  of  the  every  mem- 
ber a  missionary  program  incorporates 
the  use  of  the  Golden  Questions, 
"What  do  you  know  about  the  Mor- 
mon Church — and  would  you  like  to 
know  more?"  By  the  members  and 
missionaries  asking  these  questions, 
thousands  of  interested  persons  are 
found  and  taught  by  the  missionaries, 
individually  and  in  groups. 

One  of  the  most  powerful  forces  in 
the  Church  is  and  always  has  been  its 
youth.  They  love  their  friends  and  are 
not  afraid  to  ask  them  the  Golden 
Questions.  A  young  boy  from  Char- 
lottesville, Virginia,  was  baptized.  He 
went  home  and  said  to  his  grand- 
mother, "Grandma,  you  ought  to  be 
baptized."  "I  have  been  baptized  in  the 
Baptist  Church,"  she  said.  "Yes,  but, 
Grandma,  you  haven't  been  baptized 
into  the  true  Church."  She  said,  "May- 
be I  haven't.  Who  told  you  this?"  He 
told  her  the  Mormon  elders.  She  said, 
"Send  them  to  me."  He  did,  and  his 
grandmother  was  taught  the  gospel  and 
baptized. 

Through  the  youth,  many  families 
are  and  will  be  brought  into  the 
Church,  and  again  here,  group  meet- 
ings play  an  important  part. 

Group  teaching  was  an  important 
phase  of  proselyting  at  the  time  of 
Christ  and  was  one  of  the  effective 
means  used  by  successful  missionaries 
early  in  this  dispensation.  President 
John  Taylor  came  into  the  Church 
after  attending  group  meetings  held 
by  Parley  P.  Pratt. 

When  those  interested  in  knowing 
more  about  the  Church  are  brought 
together,  the  missionaries  use  the  dis- 
cussion plan  to  unfold  the  gospel  story. 
The  six  discussions  presented  under  the 
influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit  form  the 


N  D.  RICHARDS  33 

basis  of  this  new  but  old  program. 

Group  meetings  are  designed  to  make 
contacts  think  independently.  Most  of 
the  questions  begin  with  "why"  and 
"how"  and  give  the  contacts  a  chance  to 
express  themselves.  The  presentations 
are  natural  and  conversational,  and  ex- 
treme simplicity  is  characteristic  of  the 
doctrine  presented.  Missionaries  bear 
strong  and  specific  testimonies  and  pray 
with  contacts  before  and  after  each 
discussion.  Visual  aids  are  incorporated 
by  using  the  flannelboard. 

The  discussions  present  in  logical  se- 
quence the  need  for  living  prophets  and 
the  beautiful  story  of  the  first  vision  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  is  related,  specifically 
pointing  out  the  nature  of  the  Godhead. 

Also  the  apostasy  from  the  principles 
and  faith  established  by  the  Savior  and 
the  restoration  of  the  truth  and  the  au- 
thority and  power  to  act  for  God  is 
simply  discussed.  Next  the  story  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  and  its  great  worth  as 
another  witness  of  the  divinity  of  Christ 
is  explained. 

In  other  discussions  the  tremendously 
interesting  and  important  questions 
"Where  did  we  come  from,"  "Why  are 
we  here,"  and  "Where  do  we  go  after 
this  life"  are  considered.  This  includes 
a  discussion  of  our  pre-existent  state,  the 
atonement  by  the  Savior  of  our  physical 
and  spiritual  deaths,  and  the  necessity 
of  observing  on  this  earth  the  first  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

In  connection  with  life  after  death, 
consideration  is  given  to  the  spirit  world, 
the  degrees  of  glory,  and  the  barriers  be- 
tween man  and  God,  physical,  spiritual, 
and  intellectual,  and  how  these  are  over- 
come. The  interesting  subject  of  baptism 
for  the  dead  is  also  reviewed  in  some 
detail.  We  might  say  that  the  six  dis- 
cussions contain  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ — the  plan  of  life,  in  condensed 
form. 

The  elders  had  baptized  the  wife  and 
children  of  a  man  in  Charlotte,  North 
Carolina.  They  tried  to  teach  the  hus- 
band, but  he  refused  to  listen  and  said, 
"I  will  never  be  baptized  into  your 
Church,  but  you  can  come  to  our  home 
if  you  want."  Two  weeks  later  he  was 
baptized.  He  said,  "I  have  learned  more- 
from  these  six  discussions  you  have  given 
me  than  I  learned  in  the  eighteen  years 
I  was  a  Baptist." 


34 

Friday,  October  5 

The  discussion  plan  is  not  designed  to 
convince  intellectually,  but  rather,  the 
discussions  are  instruments  through 
which  the  Holy  Ghost  can  work  to 
awaken  a  spiritual  awareness  and  bring 
a  personal  testimony  into  the  hearts  of 
the  listeners  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
Prophet  and  the  Church  is  true. 

Many  contacts  after  participating  in 
the  discussions  and  listening  to  the  testi- 
monies of  the  missionaries,  frequently 
ask,  "How  may  I  obtain  this  knowledge 
and  receive  a  testimony?"  A  prophet  of 
the  Lord  has  said  that  if  an  earnest 
seeker  of  truth  will  ask  God  with  a 
sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having 
faith  in  Christ,  he  will  have  manifested 
to  him,  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  a  testimony 
that  these  things  are  true.  (Moroni 
10:4-5.) 

Recently  Sister  Kemp  of  Atlanta, 
Georgia,  earnestly  prayed  that  the  Lord 
would  bless  her  with  wisdom  and  un- 
derstanding in  raising  her  daughter 
thirteen,  her  two  sons  fourteen,  and 
sixteen.  Shortly  after  praying,  her  sons 
brought  two  Mormon  elders  home. 
Sister  Kemp  knew  her  prayers  had  been 
answered.  The  missionaries  gave  the 
family  the  six  discussions,  and  the  chil- 
dren asked  for  baptism,  but  the  parents 
were  not  ready. 

As  Brother  and  Sister  Kemp  witnessed 
the  baptisms,  the  daughter  came  out  of 
the  water  and  threw  her  wet  arms  around 
her  mother  saying,  "Mommie,  I  know 
this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ." 
Shortly  thereafter  the  parents  requested 
baptism.  Surely  the  Lord  moves  in  a 
mysterious  way  his  wonders  to  perform. 

The  incidents  I  have  related  are  typi- 
cal of  what  is  happening  throughout  the 
stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church.  Yes, 
many  investigators  do  ask  God  with 
a  sincere  heart  and  with  real  intent, 
and  after  participating  in  the  discussions 
have  a  reasonably  good  understanding  of 
the  gospel  and  possess  a  testimony. 

And  are  the  converts  staying  in  the 
Church  and  remaining  active?  Where 
fellowship  programs  are  effective,  gen- 
erally a  high  percentage  of  the  converts 
remain  active.  Fellowshiping,  however, 
includes  loving  converts  into  the  Church 
and  giving  them  work  assignments.  It 
is  not  unusual  to  hear  converts  say, 
"It's  a  great  feeling  to  be  needed."  I 
heard  Brother  Robert  Giles,  a  convert 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

in  Las  Vegas,  Nevada,  so  testify  at  a 
recent  stake  conference. 

Now  brothers  and  sisters,  we  have 
been  called  to  gather  the  Lord's  elect 
and  we  are  told  that  they  will  not  harden 
their  hearts.  For  this  day  our  Prophet 
has  given  us  the  challenge— every  mem- 
ber a  missionary. 

As  each  of  us  ask  the  Golden  Ques- 
tions, participate  in  the  referral  program, 
and  hold  group  meetings  we  can  say 
as  the  Prophet  Alma  said,  ".  .  .  this  is 
my  glory,  that  perhaps  I  may  be  an 
instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  to 
bring  some  soul  to  repentance;  and  this 
is  my  joy."  (Alma  29:9.) 

I  testify  that  we  are  engaged  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord.  I  know  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  and  that  prophets  have  been 
raised  up  in  these  latter  days.  I  am  thank- 
ful for  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
for  all  those  that  have  followed  him. 

I  love  and  sustain  our  beloved  Prophet 
David  O.  McKay,  his  counselors,  and 
the  Apostles  standing  at  the  head  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  today. 

May  we  be  faithful  and  energetic  in 
gathering  the  elect  in  this  the  eleventh 
hour  of  warning,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  "Abide  With 
Me,  'Tis  Eventide,"  conducted  by  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.  The  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  Elder  Burton 
R.  Smith,  president  of  the  Flagstaff 
Stake. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  Central  Idaho  and 
Bannock  Welfare  Regions,  under  the 
direction  of  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen  with  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ.  In  behalf  of  all  who  have  lis- 
tened to  your  beautiful  singing  during 
the  General  Conference  sessions  today, 
the  General  Authorities,  the  audience 
here  in  the  Tabernacle,  the  great  radio 
and  television  audience,  we  express, 
sisters,  appreciation  and  thanks  for  the 
beautiful  music.  With  all  my  heart  I 
say,  God  bless  you  for  the  service  you 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


35 


have  rendered  in  these  Conference  ses- 
sions today.  We  are  not  unmindful  of 
the  efforts  you  have  made  in  leaving 
your  homes  to  come  here,  the  hours 
spent  in  learning  these  songs,  and  so 
forth. 

The  general  session  tomorrow  morning 
will  be  broadcast  through  the  generous 
cooperation  of  owners  and  managers 
of  radio  and  television  stations  over  101 
television  stations  and  11  radio  stations. 
This  session  will  be  video-taped  and 
transmitted  by  television  Sunday  morn- 
ing to  the  eastern  part  of  the  nation. 
We  wish  to  express  appreciation  to  our 
various  mission  presidents,  to  Brother 
Arch  L.  Madsen,  president  of  Station 
KSL,  to  Brother  Paul  H.  Evans,  director 
of  special  programs  for  KSL,  for  the 
service  they  have  rendered  in  arranging 
for  these  broadcasts  for  us. 

We  have  some  announcements  we 
wish  to  note.  A  missionary  conference 
will  be  held  under  the  direction  of  the 
First  Presidency  in  the  Tabernacle  this 
evening  at  7:00  o'clock.  The  following 
are  invited  to  be  present:  stake  presi- 
dencies, high  councilmen,  advisers  to 


stake  missions  and  fellowshiping  pro- 
grams, stake  mission  presidencies,  all 
stake  missionaries,  bishoprics,  and 
members  of  auxiliary  General  Boards. 

There  will  be  a  Welfare  agricultural 
meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall  Saturday 
morning  at  7:30  a.m.  Stake  presidents, 
bishops,  Welfare  Committee  advisers, 
agricultural  representatives  from  all 
stakes  and  all  others  interested  in  agri- 
culture are  invited  to  attend  this  meeting. 

The  Singing  Mothers  will  now  favor 
us  with  "Abide  With  Me,  'Tis  Even- 
tide," and  the  benediction  will  be  offered 
as  announced.  After  the  benediction  by 
Elder  Burton  R.  Smith,  president  of  the 
Flagstaff  Stake,  the  general  session  of 
this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
ten  o'clock  Saturday  morning. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "Abide  With 
Me,  'Tis  Eventide,"  following  which  the 
benediction  was  offered  by  President 
Burton  R.  Smith  of  the  Flagstaff  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Saturday 
morning,  Oct.  6,  at  10:00. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  third  session  of  the  General  Con- 
ference convened  in  the  Tabernacle  at 
10:00  a.m.,  Saturday,  October  6,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 
and  conducting  the  meeting. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  welcome  all  present  this  morning 
in  the  Tabernacle  and  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  together  with  the  vast  television 
and  radio1  audience  in  this  third  session 
of  the  132nd  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will 
open   these    services   by   singing  "A 


Mighty  Fortress."  Following  the  singing 
the  invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Reed  Whipple,  president  of  the  Las 
Vegas  Stake. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  num- 
ber, "A  Mighty  Fortress." 

Elder  Reed  Whipple,  president  of  the 
Las  Vegas  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Reed  Whipple,  Las  Vegas 
Stake,  offered  the  invocation.  The  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  will  now  sing,  "Jesus, 
Name  Of  Wondrous  Love."  Following 
the  singing  Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  will  speak  to  us. 

Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
"Jesus,  Name  Of  Wondrous  Love." 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay:  Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will  be  Twelve. 

ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  appreciate 
very  much  this  privilege  of  participating 
with  you  in  this  great  general  confer- 
ence of  the  Church.  As  a  kind  of  text 
I  would  like  to  borrow  a  little  from  the 
philosophy  of  Rudyard  Kipling.  Kipling 
was  an  English  writer  born  in  1865.  He 
lived  in  that  period  when  England  was 
the  world's  leading  naval  power.  He 
saw  much  of  the  change-over  from  the 
old  sailing  ship  to  the  use  of  steam  as  a 
means  of  ocean  navigation.  Kipling  pre- 
served for  us  some  interesting  ideas 
about  this  transition  in  his  poem  en- 
titled, "M' Andrew's  Hymn." 

The  dictionary  says  that  a  hymn  is  a 
song  of  praise  or  adoration,  having 
a  religious  significance.  Kipling's  M' An- 
drew was  the  captain  of  an  early 
steamship  in  the  days  when  98  percent 
of  the  land-based  work  of  the  world 
was  done  by  the  muscle  power  of  men 
and  animals.  And  even  though 
M'Andrew's  engines  were  very  primitive, 
he  praised  God  for  the  use  of  this 
gigantic  new  power  that  had  been 
placed  in  his  hands,  and  he  looked 
forward  to  the  time  when  his  ship  might 
attain  a  speed  of  30  miles  per  hour. 

M' Andrew  sang: 
"From  coupler-flange  to  spindle-guide 

I  see  Thy  hand,  O  God — 
Predestination  in  the  stride  o'yon  con- 

nectin'-rod." 

Then  standing  alone  at  night  as  he 
guided  his  ship  home  from  its  long 
journey  abroad,  he  said: 

"I  cannot  get  my  sleep  to-night;  old 
bones  are  hard  to  please; 

I'll  stand  the  middle  watch  up  here- 
alone  wi'  God  an'  these 

My  engines,  after  ninety  days  o'race  an' 
rack  an'  strain 

Through  all  the  seas  of  all  Thy  world, 
slam-bangin's  home  again. 

Slam-bang  too  much — they  knock  a 
wee — the  cross-head  gibs  are  loose, 


But  thirty-thousand  miles  o'  sea  does 
give  them  fair  excuse." 

Then  while  reflecting  upon  the  be- 
ginning and  contemplating  the  future 
of  the  machine,  he  said: 

"Ten  pounds  was  all  the  pressure  then 

with  which  a  man  could  drive; 
An'  here,  our  workin'  gauges  given  165! 
We're  creepin'  up  wi'  each  new  rig — less 

weight  an'  larger  power; 
There'll  be  the   loco-boiler  next  an' 

thirty  mile  an  hour! 
Thirty  an'  more.   What  I  ha'  seen  since 

ocean-steam  began 
Leaves  me  no  doubt  for  the  machine: 

but  what  about  the  man?" 

Then  for  a  while  M'Andrew  focuses 
his  meditation  upon  some  of  the 
blemishes  of  the  men  who  run  the 
machines.  Frequently  his  sailors  de- 
based themselves  and  put  ugly  scars 
upon  their  souls.  The  fires  of  sin 
blackened  their  lives  even  as  the  flames 
blackened  the  ship's  furnaces.  M'Andrew 
pointed  out  that  in  traveling  a  million 
miles  of  sea  some  of  his  sailors  had 
traveled  an  even  greater  distance  away 
from  God  and  the  purposes  for  which 
they  were  created.  But  M'Andrew 
knew  that  the  most  important  ques- 
tion must  always  be,  "what  about  the 
man?"  He  says: 

"'Tis  the  man  that  counts,  wi'  all  his 
runs,  o'er  a  million  miles  o'  sea: 

Four  times  the  span  from  earth  to 
moon  .  .  .  But  how  far,  O  Lord,  from 
Thee?" 

Then  thinking  about  the  machine  of 
the  future  M'Andrew  said: 

"In  spite  of  knock  and  scale,  of  friction 

waste  and  slip 
By  thy  great  light,  now  mark  my  word 
We'll  build  a  perfect  ship. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


37 


I'll  never  last  to  judge  her  lines 
Or  take  her  curve,  not  I. 
But  I  have  lived,  and  I  have  worked 
Thanks  be  to  Thee  Most  High." 

From  M'Andrew's  day  till  now  we 
have  continued  to  perfect  our  machines 
until  we  have  far  surpassed  M'Andrew's 
dream  of  "a  perfect  ship."  The  early 
steamship  could  hardly  carry  enough 
coal  to  provide  the  means  of  propelling 
itself  across  the  ocean.  But  the  new 
atomic  ships  now  being  launched  can 
carry  a  full  cargo  around  the  earth 
twenty  times  or  more  without  ever  a 
thought  of  refueling. 

Our  machines  not  only  carry  us 
across  the  oceans  and  take  us  under  the 
polar  icecap,  but  they  plow  our  ground, 
cook  our  food,  refrigerate  our  homes, 
make  our  clothes,  balance  our  books, 
carry  our  messages,  build  our  roads, 
and  move  our  mountains.  Some  pic- 
tures were  recently  published  showing 
the  construction  of  the  Suez  Canal  in 
the  1860's.  They  showed  the  dirt  being 
removed  in  baskets,  strapped  to  the 
backs  of  human  beings.  Then  less  than 
a  hundred  years  later  a  single  giant 
earth-moving  machine  could  do  the 
work  previously  done  by  thousands  of 
men. 

We  have  electronic  brains  equally  as 
capable  in  the  mental  field.  There  are 
a  great  many  physical  and  mental  jobs 
which  we  can  no  longer  afford  to  have 
done  by  "manpower"  inasmuch  as 
"machine  power"  is  so  much  cheaper 
and  more  effective.  If  M' Andrew  praised 
God  for  the  machines  of  his  day,  what 
would  he  think  of  those  of  our  time, 
capable  of  carrying  us  through  the 
stratosphere  at  many  times  the  speed 
of  sound,  or  what  would  he  think  of 
our  $20,000,000,000  project  to  put  a 
man  on  the  moon?  If  M' Andrew  lived 
among  us,  he  would  be  sure  to  commend 
us  for  our  machines  and  equally  sure 
to  inquire,  "What  about  the  man?" 

We  just  hope  that  when  man  finally 
does  arrive  on  the  moon,  he  will  not 
create  the  sorry  state  of  affairs  there 
that  presently  trouble  the  earth.  But 
whether  here  or  on  the  moon,  our  most 
serious  question  will  always  be,  "What 
about  the  man?"  What  about  his  honor, 
what  about  his  faith,  what  about  his 
future?    How  much  personal  improve- 


ment will  we  make  this  year?  An  in- 
vestment that  pays  five  percent  interest 
will  more  than  double  itself  in  fifteen 
years.  How  much  personal  doubling 
have  we  done  in  that  time?  It  is  won- 
derful for  us  to  be  able  to  stand  flapping 
our  wings  in  preparation  for  our  flight 
into  space,  but  in  the  process  are  we 
getting  any  closer  to  God  and  our  own 
eternal  life?  Captain  M' Andrew  dreamed 
of  building  a  perfect  ship,  yet  he  said, 
"It's  the  man  that  counts."  What  our 
world  needs  is  more  perfect  men. 

For  more  than  nineteen  centuries  now 
we  have  held  up  before  our  minds  the 
example  of  a  perfect  man,  and  his 
greatest  message  was,  "Follow  me." 
With  all  of  our  great  ability,  how  well 
are  we  following  him  in  his  faith?  How 
well  are  we  following  him  in  his  works, 
or  in  the  development  of  real  character 
qualities  in  ourselves?  As  the  high 
point  in  the  most  important  sermon 
ever  given,  the  greatest  man  who  ever 
lived  said,  "Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even 
as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is 
perfect."  (Matt.  5:48.)  Our  Father  in 
heaven  is  the  most  perfect,  and  the 
most  intelligent  Being  in  the  universe. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  highest  order  in 
existence.  He  has  the  greatest  sense 
of  values.  He  is  God.  But  what  about 
the  man?  Man's  eternal  spirit  is  the 
literal  offspring  of  God,  and  according 
to  the  natural  laws  of  the  universe,  the 
offspring  may  someday  hope  to  become 
like  the  parent.  There  is  everything  in 
remembering  our  heritage  and  con- 
stantly reaffirming  it  by  the  perfection 
of  our  own  lives. 

But  generally  we  are  not  thinking 
very  much  about  perfection  in  men. 
We  live  in  the  age  of  machines.  We 
occupy  ourselves  with  armament  races, 
astronauts  to  the  moon,  and  contests  for 
supremacy  in  material  things.  What  a 
wonderful  world  we  could  have  if  we 
could  make  an  improvement  in  our- 
selves to  match  the  improvement  in  the 
machines  we  operate! 

Many  years  ago  Harry  Emerson  Fos- 
dick  wrote  an  interesting  book  entitled, 
On  Being  a  Real  Person.  He  detailed 
some  of  the  items  necessary  if  one  de- 
sired to  develop  himself  into  a  truly 
outstanding  individual.  And  that  is 
something  we  should  work  at  a  great 
deal  harder  than  we  do.    But  in  the 


38 

Saturday,  October  6 

Holy  Scriptures  God  has  given  his  own 
specifications  for  developing  life's  high- 
est values.  It  was  intended  that  by  fol- 
lowing his  formula  every  child  of  God 
should  become  "a  magnificent  human 
being"  and  eventually  become  even  as 
God.  But  first  we  must  get  rid  of  the 
dishonesties,  the  disloyalties,  and  the 
immoralities  that  destroy  so  many  of  our 
lives  and  put  perfection  forever  beyond 
our  reach. 

In  an  absolute  sense,  perfection  in  this 
life  may  be  an  impossibility.  But  in 
many  ways  a  state  of  near  perfection  is 
a  reasonable  goal  for  us;  for  example, 
we  can  all  be  perfect  in  abstaining  from 
tea  and  coffee.  We  can  be  perfect  in 
freeing  ourselves  from  the  use  of  tobacco 
and  alcohol.  We  can  be  perfect  in  the 
payment  of  our  tithing.  We  can  be 
perfect  in  our  attendance  at  Sacrament 
meeting.  We  can  be  perfectly  honest 
and  perfectly  dependable  and  perfectly 
moral,  and  this  with  much  less  effort 
than  we  spend  in  developing  perfection 
in  our  machines. 

The  book  of  Genesis  says  that  Noah 
was  a  righteous  man  and  perfect  in  his 
generation.  Enoch  was  also  a  perfect 
man,  and  under  his  teachings,  his  peo- 
ple so  perfected  themselves  that  the  en- 
tire city  was  translated.  The  scripture 
says,  "And  Enoch  walked  with  God: 
and  he  was  not;  for  God  took  him." 
(Gen.  5:24.)  If  the  people  living  in  the 
city  of  Enoch  could  be  perfect,  then  the 
people  living  in  your  city  and  the  peo- 
ple living  in  my  city  can  be  perfect  also. 

There  are  some  people  who  maintain 
that  it  is  very  difficult  to  live  the  re- 
ligion of  Christ,  and  for  some  people 
any  righteous  effort  is  difficult.  But 
what  kind  of  person  would  you  expect 
to  be  most  severely  tempted  by  dis- 
honesty or  immorality  or  profanity?  Or 
what  kind  of  person  would  you  expect 
to  have  the  most  difficulty  in  abstain- 
ing from  drunkenness  or  from  betray- 
ing his  country?  The  ones  suffering 
the  strongest  temptations  from  evil 
would  likely  be  those  living  closest  to 
evil.  It  has  been  pointed  out  that  no 
one  ever  fell  into  a  mud  puddle  who 
didn't  first  go  too  close  to  it.  We 
are  not  necessarily  complimenting  our- 
selves when  we  boast  of  the  difficulty 
we  have  in  living  our  religion,  just  as 
we  would  not  be  complimenting  our- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

selves  to  confess  difficulty  in  restraining 
ourselves  from  being  thieves  and 
murderers. 

It  is  not  difficult  to  live  the  religion 
of  Christ  if  that  is  what  we  really  want 
to  do.  That  is,  it  is  just  as  easy  for  an 
honest  man  to  be  honest  as  it  is  for  a 
dishonest  man  to  be  dishonest.  It  is 
just  as  easy  for  a  faithful  man  to  be 
faithful  as  it  is  for  an  unfaithful  man  to 
be  unfaithful.  In  fact,  it  has  been  said 
that  one  can  get  to  heaven  on  half  the 
effort  that  we  usually  burn  up  in  going 
to  hell. 

We  become  godly  or  moral  or 
obedient,  just  as  we  become  anything 
else,  by  practice.  And  only  as  we  live 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  can  we 
really  know  of  their  truthfulness  and 
value.  It  is  the  person  who  pays  his 
tithing  who  believes  in  tithing.  It  is 
the  one  who  observes  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  who  knows  the  truth  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  It  is  the  person  who 
keeps  the  Sabbath  day  holy  who 
champions  it.  And  it  is  only  the  person 
who  gives  service  who  knows  the  joys 
of  serving. 

Jesus  said,  "He  that  doeth  my  will 
shall  know  of  the  doctrine."  (See  John 
7:17.)  And  Emerson  said,  "Do  the 
thing  and  you  shall  have  the  power." 
If  we  can  live  one  gospel  principle  per- 
fectly today,  we  can  live  two  gospel 
principles  perfectly  tomorrow.  Perfec- 
tion in  one  thing  will  act  as  a  stepping- 
stone  to  perfection  in  something  else, 
and  soon  we  may  approach  perfection 
in  all  things. 

In  announcing  his  famous  "as  if" 
principle,  William  James  said  that  if 
you  want  a  quality,  act  "as  if"  you 
already  had  it.  If  you  want  to  be  friendly, 
act  "as  if"  you  are  already  friendly. 
If  you  want  to  be  courageous,  don't  go 
around  talking  fear  and  indulging  in 
negative,  un-Christian  thinking.  If  you 
want  to  be  faithful,  act  "as  if"  you  are 
already  faithful.  Do  the  things  that 
faithful  people  do.  Go  to  church,  say 
your  prayers,  love  God,  refrain  from 
evil,  study  the  scriptures,  be  honest  with 
yourself,  and  everyone  else.  And  if  you 
would  like  to  be  perfect,  act  "as  if"  you 
were  already  perfect.  Don't  go  around 
glorying  in  your  sins  and  weaknesses. 
We  can  come  very  close  to  perfection  if 
we  really  get  the  spirit  of  it  in  our  hearts. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


39 


If  we  really  want  to  obey  God,  we  should 
act  "as  if"  we  were  already  obedient. 
We  should  think  obedience,  love  obedi- 
ence, practise  obedience,  and  we  should 
allow  no  exceptions  to  obedience.  The 
fewer  the  exceptions  to  perfection,  the 
nearer  we  get  to  perfection. 

During  the  Golden  Age  of  Greece, 
Pericles  said  that  no  one  had  a  right 
to  fill  an  important  office  until  he  had 
first  filled  some  smaller  offices  with 
distinction.  Too  frequently  we  want 
to  do  some  great  thing  before  we  have 
practised  perfection  in  doing  little  things 
well. 

If  we  want  to  be  great  souls  in  heaven, 
we  should  practise  being  great  souls 
here.  If  we  believe  that  honor  is  better 
than  dishonor,  then  we  should  imme- 
diately begin  practising  honor,  not  just 
in  big  things,  but  in  all  things. 

There  is  no  question  about  the  fact 
that  our  machines  of  the  future  will 
become  more  and  more  efficient.  Our 
standard  of  living  will  probably  go  on 
increasing;  our  land  will  become  more 
and  more  productive;  our  cities  will 
become  bigger  and  more  beautiful.  Re- 
cently there  was  unveiled  in  this  city  a 
master  plan  for  our  second  century  of 
development.  Certainly  in  the  future 
thousands  of  people  will  come  here  to 
admire  our  wide  streets,  our  beautiful 
parks,  and  our  useful  buildings.  But 
far  the  most  important  part  of  what  our 
visitors  will  want  to  know  is,  "What 
about  the  man?"  They  will  want  to 
know  how  well  we  are  living  this  new 
revelation  of  the  gospel.  M' Andrew  may 
well  join  with  Edwin  Markham  and 
sing: 

"We  are  all  blind  until  we  see 
That  in  the  human  plan, 
Nothing  is  worth  the  building 
That  does  not  build  the  man. 

"Why  build  these  cities  glorious, 
If  man  unbuilded  goes. 
In  vain  we  build  the  world, 
Unless  the  builder  also  grows." 


I  am  sure  of  this,  that  the  greatest 
waste  there  is  in  the  world  is  not  our 
blighted  cities,  nor  the  erosion  of  our 
soils,  nor  the  depletion  of  our  natural 
resources.  It  isn't  the  devastation  of  our 
wars  nor  the  cost  of  our  crime.  The 
greatest  waste  there  is  in  the  world  is 
that  human  beings,  you  and  I,  live  so 
far  below  the  level  of  our  possibilities; 
compared  with  what  we  might  be,  we 
are  only  half  alive.  The  most  important 
part  of  any  second  century  plan  would 
be  to  constitute  our  lives  as  a  hymn  of 
praise  to  our  Heavenly  Father,  not  only 
for  the  inestimable  privilege  of  build- 
ing a  perfect  ship  and  building  a  per- 
fect city  and  building  a  perfect  national 
community,  but  we  should  also  build 
into  our  lives  a  perfect  devotion  for 
God's  perfect  plan  designed  to  bring 
about  our  perfection  and  eternal  glory. 
May  each  of  us  be  able  to  find  God's 
own  answer  to  M' Andrew's  question,  r 
my  prayer,  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  The 
Tabernacle  Choir,  following  a  brief 
interlude,  will  sing  "Fierce  Raged  The 
Tempest." 


Following  an  organ  prelude  the  Choir 
sang  "Fierce  Raged  The  Tempest." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  welcome  those  who  have  joined  us 
in  this  session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Thirty-Second  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church,  convened  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  President 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  Second  Counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 


40 

Saturday,  October  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


PRESIDENT  HU 

Second  Counselor  in 

It  is  a  very  great  honor  but  a  sobering 
responsibility  to  undertake  to  address 
this  vast  audience,  seen  and  unseen;  the 
kind  of  responsibility  that  causes  a  man 
humbly  to  seek  divine  guidance  and 
assistance,  especially  if  he  would  talk 
of  God  and  of  truth. 

Let  us  read  the  words  of  the  Savior 
as  recorded  in  the  eighth  chapter  of 
the  Gospel  according  to  St.  John: 

".  .  .  If  ye  continue  in  my  word, 
then  are  ye  my  disciples  indeed; 

"And  ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and 
the  truth  shall  make  you  free."  (John 
8:31-32.) 

And  again  in  the  17th  chapter  of 
John,  he  said: 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee,  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent." 
(Ibid.,  17:3.) 

The  first  scripture  quoted  is  a  promise 
that  if  we  continue  in  his  word  we  shall 
know  the  truth  and  gain  freedom;  and 
the  second,  that  it  is  life  eternal  to  know 
God.  Each  of  these  scriptures  envisions 
and  requires  an  eternal  quest;  because 
gaining  a  complete  knowledge  of  truth, 
or  of  God,  is  an  infinite  undertaking. 

It  has  been  repeatedly  stated  in  the 
conference  thus  far  by  the  speakers, 
that  we  live  in  tremendous  times — we 
live  in  the  most  significant  period  in 
the  records  of  the  human  race.  This 
is  confirmed  by  our  best  scholars 
throughout  the  world,  as  they  review 
for  us  the  historic  evolutions,  revolu- 
tions, and  reformations  of  the  past. 
Civilized  people  everywhere  are  becom- 
ing aware  of  the  ever-expanding  com- 
plexity of  our  civilization  and  of  the 
almost  miraculous  advancement  and 
improvement  in  the  fields  of  travel  and 
communication,  not  only  on  an  inter- 
national but  on  an  interplanetary  basis. 
This  knowledge  causes  us  to  refer  to 
our  time  and  our  accomplishments  as,  in 
modern  vernacular,  "out  of  this  world." 
That  phrase  becomes  almost  literal. 

In  the  midst  of  the  rapid  and  un- 
precedented advance  and  discovery  in 
many  branches  of  science,  we  ask  you, 


GH  B.  BROWN 

the  First  Presidency 

is  it  not  reasonable  to  expect  some  new 
activity,  some  new  thought,  some  new 
revelation  in  the  most  important  dimen- 
sion of  human  life,  the  spiritual 
dimension? 

A.  Paul  Davis  tells  us,  "The  world  is 
too  dangerous  for  anything  but  truth 
and  too  small  for  anything  but  brother- 
hood." There  must  be  social,  moral, 
and  spiritual  solidarity  in  a  world  which 
is  in  hourly  danger  of  extinction  by 
bombs,  missiles,  and  atomic  fallout. 

Many  people,  including  some  students 
and  scholars,  are  unaware  of  the  fact 
that  also  in  the  fields  of  theology  and 
religion  there  have  been  revolution- 
ary changes  of  thought,  and  they  are 
of  even  greater  consequence — greater 
because  this  area  embraces  all  other 
fields  of  interest  and  activity. 

The  most  intriguing  and  significant 
aspect  of  a  man's  search  for  truth  is  his 
continuing  and  compelling  attempt  to 
explain  himself  and  his  relation  to  the 
universe  which  envelops  him,  to  find  the 
cause  behind  the  phenomena  of  life. 
The  questions  of  whence  and  why  and 
whither  have  persisted  through  the  ages. 

Any  open-minded  search  for  truth  re- 
quires courage,  constancy,  and  humility. 
To  quote  an  ancient  prayer: 

"From  the  cowardice  that  shrinks  from 

new  truth, 
From  the  laziness  that  is  content  with 

half  truth, 
From  the  arrogance  that  thinks  it  knows 

all  truth, 
O  God  of  truth,  deliver  us." 

Any  thoughtful,  prayerful  search  for 
truth  reveals  that  God  is  our  Father, 
and  that  he  is  a  person,  that  his  glory  is 
intelligence,  and  that  he  has  a  will,  a 
purpose,  and  a  plan  in  creating  the  uni- 
verse and  providing  for  man's  earth 
life. 

God  is  more  than  personality  as  we 
know  it;  he  is  that  in  perfect  degree 
which  our  best  is  in  imperfect  degree. 
To  have  faith  in  a  personal  God,  who 
can  be  referred  to  as  "Father"  gives 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


41 


man  a  sense  of  dignity  and  holds  before 
him  an  ideal  toward  which  to  strive. 
Continuing  in  that  faith  one  gets  pro- 
gressive answers  to  the  disturbing 
questions  of  source,  purpose,  and  destiny. 

In  Bible  times,  the  prophets  were  the 
leaders  of  thought.  In  a  sense  they 
were  the  spiritual  scientists  who  tapped 
the  inexhaustible  reservoirs  of  truth 
through  the  simple  media  of  direct 
revelation  from  God. 

True  religion  is  a  vital  function  in 
human  living,  and  its  teachers  and 
disciples  should  seek,  understand,  and 
advocate  revealed  truth.  This  truth 
demands  our  allegiance  and  will  lead 
men  to  the  promised  freedom. 

If  religion  is  to  keep  pace  with  other 
human  interests  and  refute  the  false 
charges  of  communism  that  there  is  no 
God,  that  Christ  is  a  myth,  that  religion 
is  an  opiate,  we  must  re-examine  our 
prescribed  beliefs  as  set  forth  in  formu- 
lated creeds;  we  must  compare  our 
organizations  and  procedures  and  our 
theology  with  the  teachings  of  the  Holy 
Bible.  Let  us  seek  to  find  a  church 
with  an  organization  that  is  identical 
with  that  set  up  in  the  New  Testament. 

And  in  our  search  for  truth,  we  must 
purge  ourselves  of  prejudice,  for  that 
closes  the  mind.  Prejudice  has  been 
defined  as  "a  vagrant  opinion  without 
visible  means  of  support."  Let  us  re- 
turn then  to  a  prayerful  study  of  the 
Old  and  the  New  Testament,  and  have 
faith  in  the  God  of  the  Holy  Bible  who 
was  known  to  Abraham,  Isaac,  and 
Jacob  as  Jehovah,  and  to  Peter,  John, 
and  Paul  as  the  Messiah.  Such  a  study 
will  reveal  that  God  is  not  a  sovereign 
autocrat,  but  a  loving,  personal  Father. 
This  belief  in  the  universal  Fatherhood 
of  God  forms  the  basis  for  our  faith  in 
the  universal  brotherhood  of  man. 

You,  our  friends  who  are  listening  to 
or  attending  the  proceedings  of  this  con- 
ference, no  doubt  ask  what  is  the 
Mormon  creed.  Although  we  announce 
no  formal  creed,  the  founder  and  first 
president  of  the  Church  did  set  forth  as 
an  epitome  of  the  tenets  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
thirteen  concise  statements  known  as  the 
Articles  of  Faith.  These  include  funda- 
mental and  characteristic  gospel  doc- 
trine as  taught  by  the  Church  of  Jesus 


Christ  in  former  days.  The  first  of  these 
articles  declares: 

"We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  in  His  son,  Jesus  Christ,  and 
in  the  Holy  Ghost." 

That  statement  should  reassure  some 
of  our  friends  who  have  wondered 
whether  or  not  the  Mormons  are 
Christians. 

That  these  articles  are  not,  and  were 
not  intended  to  be,  a  complete  and  final 
exposition  of  beliefs  is  evidenced  by  the 
fact  that  we  receive  and  expect  con- 
tinued revelation.  In  fact,  we  say  in 
another  Article  of  Faith: 

"We  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed, 
all  that  He  does  now  reveal,  and  we 
believe  that  He  will  yet  reveal  many 
great  and  important  things  pertaining 
to  the  Kingdom  of  God." — Ninth  Article 
of  Faith. 

These  articles  are  authoritative;  how- 
ever, they  form  but  an  outline  for  the 
study  of  the  theology  of  the  Church. 

Theology  as  a  science  has  been  de- 
fined as  that  branch  of  classified  knowl- 
edge which  deals  with  God  and  man, 
their  relationship  and  their  co-operative 
purpose.  While  theology  may  appeal 
primarily  to  the  intellect,  religion 
touches  the  heart,  and  it  inspires  men 
to  live  in  accordance  with  the  knowledge 
gained.  Theology  may  be  only  diction, 
but  religion  requires  action.  Religion 
is  man's  endeavor  to  adapt  himself  to 
the  facts  of  existence  as  revealed  by 
the  Author  and  Creator  of  all  that  is. 
It  differs  from  other  such  endeavors  in 
that  it  seeks  the  adaptation  of  the  whole 
of  life  to  ultimate  facts. 

Now,  as  God  is  the  fountain  of  truth 
and  knowledge,  the  source  of  wisdom, 
and  as  theology  and  religion  are  pri- 
marily concerned  with  the  existence  of 
and  our  relationship  to  Deity,  does  it 
not  seem  obvious  that  this  combined 
subject,  theology  and  religion,  when  ac- 
curately defined  and  understood,  is  the 
queen  of  all  the  sciences?  It  embraces 
all  truth  and  therefore  includes  all  other 
sciences. 

It  deals  with  man's  origin,  purpose, 
and  destiny,  with  the  principles  govern- 
ing the  creation  of  worlds,  with  God's 
eternal  laws  which  are  often  called  the 
laws  of  nature.  God  himself  has  from 
the  beginning  been  the  Great  Scientist, 
and  he  has  taught  men  by  personal 


42 

Saturday,  October  6 

manifestations  as  well  as  by  ministra- 
tions of  his  appointed  servants. 

But  here  as  elsewhere,  when  the  stu- 
dent comes  to  the  edge  of  knowledge, 
he  must  lean  on  faith  and  continue  his 
quest.  He  must  "trust  the  soul's  in- 
vincible surmise,"  as  did  Columbus.  If 
science  is  built  upon  facts,  its  architect 
is  faith. 

As  Dr.  Talmage  has  eloquently  said, 
"Though  the  veil  of  mortality  with  all 
its  obscurity  may  shut  the  light  of  the 
divine  presence  from  the  sinful  heart, 
that  separating  curtain  may  be  drawn 
aside  and  a  heavenly  light  may  shine 
into  the  righteous  soul.  By  the  listening 
ear  attuned  to  the  celestial  music,  the 
voice  of  God  has  been  heard  declaring 
his  personality  and  will;  to  the  eye  that 
is  freed  from  the  moats  and  beams  of 
sin,  single  in  its  search  after  truth,  the 
hand  of  God  has  been  made  visible; 
within  the  soul  properly  purified  by 
devotion  and  humility,  the  mind  of 
God  has  been  revealed." 

The  honest  investigator  must  be  pre- 
pared to  follow  wherever  the  search  of 
truth  may  lead.  Truth  is  often  found 
in  the  most  unexpected  places.  He 
must,  with  fearless  and  open  mind 
"insist  that  facts  are  far  more  important 
than  any  cherished,  mistaken  beliefs, 
no  matter  how  unpleasant  the  facts  or 
how  delightful  the  beliefs." 

Quoting  Lowell: 

"New  occasions  teach  new  duties;  Time 
makes  ancient  good  uncouth; 

They  must  upward  still,  and  onward, 
who  would  keep  abreast  of  Truth:" 

As  God  is  our  Father  and  the  source 
of  all  truth,  as  we  are  all  primarily  in- 
terested in  attaining  eternal  life  and  as 
it  is  eternal  life  to  know  him,  surely  an 
open-minded  and  courageous  study  of 
him  and  his  divine  plan  with  respect 
to  our  salvation  will  be  the  most  inter- 
esting and  permanently  rewarding  of 
all  ventures  into  the  vast  realms  which 
invite  man's  questing  spirit.  It  was 
doubtless  a  contemplation  of  this  majes- 
tic theme  that  gave  us  the  rhapsody  re- 
corded in  John.   He  said: 

"Beloved,  now  are  we  the  sons  of 
God,  and  it  doth  not  yet  appear  what 
we  shall  be:  but  we  know  that,  when 
he  shall  appear,  we  shall  be  like  him; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

for  we  shall  see  him  as  he  is."  (1  John 
3:2.) 

The  restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
which  we  proclaim,  when  understood 
and  accepted,  will  unite  all  men  in  a 
common  cause,  and  then  only  will  all 
new  scientific  discoveries  be  utilized  for 
the  benefit  of  mankind.  Then  we 
shall  have  peace.  A  knowledge  of 
truth  will  help  men  to  be  free,  whether 
it  come  by  direct  revelation  as  in  the 
case  of  the  prophets,  from  the  written 
word  of  God  as  recorded  in  the  scrip- 
tures, revealed  as  a  result  of  research 
in  the  laboratory,  in  the  flight  of  the 
astronaut  as  he  circles  the  globe,  or  as 
revealed  to  a  prayerful  youth  upon  his 
knees  in  the  sanctuary  of  a  grove. 

Religion  has  to  do  not  only  with  the 
internal  life  of  man,  but  with  his  eternal 
life,  which  will  be  a  continuation  of 
identity  and  personality  into  the  spiritual 
realm  of  immortality.  Religion  gives 
meaning,  purpose,  and  direction  to 
man's  insatiable  quest,  his  instinctive 
curiosity,  and  inspires  in  him  a  desire 
for  greater  awareness  of  himself,  of  his 
universe,  and  of  God.  The  prayerful 
searcher  after  truth  will,  as  Shakespeare 
said, 

"Find  tongues  in  trees,  books  in 
running  brooks, 

"Sermons  in  stones  and  good  in  every- 
thing." (As  You  Like  It.) 

Man  is  ever  wrestling  with  the  prob- 
lems of  how  to  organize  his  reactions 
and  find  peace  amidst  the  diverse  and 
confusing  experiences  which  crowd  in 
upon  the  daily  activities  of  his  body, 
mind,  and  spirit.  Religion  is  the  means 
by  which  a  man  may  achieve  tranquility 
of  spirit  without  internal  anguish  or 
external  disaster. 

The  basic  and  fundamental  doctrine 
of  the  primitive  Church  came  through 
revelation  from  God  the  Father  through 
Jesus  Christ  his  Son.  His  life  among 
men  on  earth,  his  crucifixion,  resurrec- 
tion, and  ascension  into  heaven,  all 
proclaim  the  eternal  fact  that  he  was  and 
is  personal  and  material,  and  to  that 
we  humbly  bear  witness.  He  was  a 
babe  born  of  woman,  he  matured 
through  childhood  and  youth,  and,  as 
the  Apostle  Paul  said: 

".  .  .  being  made  perfect,  he  became 
the  author  of  eternal  salvation  unto  all 


PRESIDENT  H 

them  that  obey  him;  .  .  ."  (Hebrews 
5:9.) 

He  was  and  is  Jehovah,  God  the  Son, 
a  separate  identity  working  in  complete 
oneness  with  Elohim,  God  the  Father, 
in  whose  likeness  man  was  created. 

The  announcement  of  new  and  con- 
tinued revelation  from  God  is  more 
momentous,  more  reassuring  and  chal- 
lenging in  national  and  international 
affairs  today  than  any  of  the  discoveries 
of  atomic  energy  or  the  amazing  achieve- 
ments of  scientists. 

We  must  seek  to  know  God's  word 
and  will  concerning  us  individually  and 
collectively,  and  to  this  end  we  need 
not  rely  wholly  on  the  written  word 
given  to  people  of  another  age.  Each 
succeeding  prophet  added  something  to 
the  revelations  of  the  past.  While  much 
of  that  word  is  applicable  to  our  time 
and  condition,  we  announce  to  you, 
our  friends,  humbly  but  with  a  sincerity 
born  of  the  witness  of  the  Spirit,  that 
God's  word  is  revealed  to  men  today, 
as  anciently,  through  his  own  appointed 
servants.  We  proclaim  a  new  revelation 
from  the  heavens,  a  new  vision  and 
understanding  of  God  and  of  Jesus 
Christ  his  Son,  a  new  interpretation  of 
truth,  and  also  a  new  delegation  of 
authority  from  God  to  man.  Continued 
revelation  places  religion  in  the  van- 
guard of  human  progress.  We  proclaim 
the  opening,  under  divine  guidance,  of 
the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of 
Times,  that  which  was  mentioned  by 
the  Apostle  Peter: 

"That  in  the  dispensation  of  the  ful- 
ness of  times  he  might  gather  together 
in  one  all  things  in  Christ,  both  which 
are  in  heaven,  and  which  are  on  earth; 
even  in  him:  .  .  ."  (Eph.  1:10.) 

A  poet  of  this  dispensation  said, 
hopefully: 

"The  morning  breaks;  the  shadows  flee; 
Lo,  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled! 
The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day, 
Majestic  rises  on  the  world." 

—Parley  P.  Pratt 

The  vital  and  dynamic  message  of 
Mormonism  is  that  there  is  a  personal 
God  in  the  heavens.  He  is  omnipotent, 
omniscient,  and  omnipresent.  He  has 
not  abated  his  power;  he  has  not  sur- 
rendered his  sovereignty;  he  has  not 
diluted  his  love;  he  changes  not;  and 


GH  B.  BROWN  43 

his  plans  never  fail.  We  bear  witness 
that  his  chief  executive  officer  in  the 
creation  and  direction  of  the  affairs  of 
this  and  other  worlds  is  Jesus  Christ 
the  Lord,  the  Redeemer  of  the  World, 
the  Son  of  the  Father. 

The  foundation  of  this  Church  rests 
upon  the  bedrock  of  revelation.  The 
character,  personality,  and  purposes  of 
God  have  been  again  revealed  to  the 
world.  The  kingdom  of  God  has  been 
set  up  as  predicted  by  Daniel  and  other 
prophets.  An  angel  has  flown  in  the 
midst  of  heaven  in  the  latter  days  in 
confirmation  of  John's  vision  recorded 
in  the  fourteenth  chapter  of  Revelation, 
where  he  said: 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people. 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 
(Rev.  14:6-7.) 

Our  friends,  either  this  solemn  state- 
ment is  true  or  it  is  false.  If  it  is  true, 
it  is  the  most  important  announcement 
since  the  resurrection  and  ascension 
of  Jesus  the  Christ.  If  it  is  false  it  will, 
of  course,  with  all  other  falsehood,  come 
to  naught.  That  it  is  true  we  humbly 
testify,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Second  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  Following  a  brief  Tabernacle 
Organ  interlude  for  station  identifica- 
tion, the  Choir  and  Congregation  will 
join  in  singing  "How  Firm  A  Foun- 
dation." 


Following  an  organ  interlude  the 
congregation  and  the  Choir  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  A 
Foundation." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Mark 
E.  Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


44 

Saturday,  October  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


We  Latter-day  Saints  believe  the  Bible 
to  be  the  word  of  God.  It  is  a  faithful 
record  of  the  Lord's  dealing  with  men 
down  through  the  ages.  It  shows  that 
the  Lord  desires  that  mankind  should 
worship  him  intelligently,  not  as  some 
incomprehensible  being,  but  as  their 
loving  Father  in  heaven. 

To  accomplish  this,  God  revealed 
himself  to  men  from  time  to  time  so 
that  they  could  see  him  and  hear  him 
and  know  him.  He  revealed  himself 
personally,  actually  appearing  to  his 
prophets,  and  he  talked  with  them  face 
to  face,  even  as  a  man  "speaketh  to  his 
friend."  (See  Ex.  33:11.) 

These  appearances  of  God  to  man, 
and  by  this  I  mean  personal  visitations, 
for  that  is  what  the  Bible  describes, 
came  periodically  through  the  genera- 
tions of  the  past.  The  Lord  was  not 
content  to  give  one  and  only  one 
mighty  revelation  of  himself  to  serve 
as  a  foundation  for  faith  through  all 
time  to  come.  He  knew  that  men  are 
changeable,  often  drifting  into  by-  and 
forbidden  paths,  and  that  a  constant 
reminder  is  necessary  to  keep  them  in 
the  right  way. 

The  Bible  shows  how  true  that  is, 
for  even  though  the  Lord  did  appear 
time  and  again  anciently,  the  people 
still  drifted  toward  other  religions,  at 
times  going  into  what  seemed  to  be 
complete  apostasy  from  the  truth,  even 
setting  up  false  gods  of  their  own 
making. 

But  the  Lord  loved  his  children  and 
desired  to  save  them.  He  knew  they 
could  not  be  saved  in  ignorance  nor  in 
the  false  religions  of  their  contem- 
poraries. Only  the  truth  could  save.  So 
to  bring  them  back  into  line  as  they 
strayed  away,  he  repeatedly  gave  new 
revelations  of  himself,  restoring  the  true 
knowledge  of  the  nature  of  God  and 
pointing  to  the  right  way  of  salvation. 
By  revealing  himself  to  his  living 
prophets,  he  showed  the  people  the  dif- 
ference between  their  own  false  gods 
and  the  true  and  Living  God. 

This  became  a  pattern  with  him,  as 


is  shown  so  clearly  in  the  scriptures.  It 
is  a  well-marked  pattern,  which  is:  that 
as  men  fell  away  and  lost  the  truth, 
God  in  turn  restored  his  truth  to  them 
again  by  means  of  new  revelations  of 
himself. 

There  is  only  one  way  to  combat 
error,  and  that  is  with  the  truth.  If 
men  lost  the  truth,  they  could  only  find 
it  by  receiving  it  again  from  the  Lord, 
and  that  would  entail  new  revelation 
from  the  heavens. 

As  such  revelation  was  required  in 
the  past,  God  gave  it,  and  when  there 
was  no  prophet  on  the  earth  to  receive 
his  revelation  because  of  the  apostasy 
of  the  people,  he  raised  up  new  prophets, 
spoke  through  them,  and  appeared  per- 
sonally to  them,  thus  restoring  the 
knowledge  of  his  true  nature  so  that 
men  could  worship  him  intelligently  in 
spirit  and  in  truth. 

Let  us  point  to  a  few  Bible  examples 
of  what  we  say.  God  walked  and  talked 
with  Adam  and  Eve.  They  knew  what 
he  was  like,  and  they  received  com- 
mandments from  him,  but  many  of 
their  descendants  were  not  true  to  the 
faith.  By  the  time  of  Noah,  all  mankind 
was  apostate  and  as  a  result  was  de- 
stroyed in  the  flood,  all  except  Noah 
and  his  family.  God  raised  up  Noah 
as  a  prophet  and  talked  with  both  him 
and  his  sons,  revealing  himself  to  them. 
Therefore  they  knew  God  and  wor- 
shiped him  as  a  result  of  obtaining 
that  knowledge. 

Surely,  as  Jesus  said,  this  is  life  eter- 
nal, "that  they  might  know  thee  the  only 
true  God, . . ."  (See  John  17:3.) 

Noah  and  his  family  knew  the  Lord, 
but  as  time  went  on  their  descendants 
went  astray  until  the  days  of  Abraham 
when  there  was  much  wickedness  in 
the  earth.  But  the  Lord  followed  his 
pattern,  and  as  men  fell  away  from  the 
truth  he  revealed  himself  to  them  again, 
this  time  to  Abraham,  with  whom  he 
talked  personally,  and  then  to  Isaac  and 
to  Jacob. 

But  the  believers  were  few  in  that 
day.    When  Jacob  took  his  family  into 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


45 


Egypt  to  escape  the  famine,  the  whole 
house  of  Israel  numbered  only  seventy 
people.  In  Egypt  the  Israelites  multi- 
plied and  became  numerous.  Then 
tragedy  came  again.  They  left  the 
teachings  of  their  fathers,  and  began 
worshiping  like  the  Egyptians,  who 
were  idolators.  They  became  so  in- 
volved that  later  on  they  made  a  golden 
calf  of  their  own  and  worshiped 
before  it. 

The  Lord  determined  to  bring  his 
people  out  of  Egypt  and  restore  the 
truth  to  them.  This  would  entail  an- 
other new  revelation,  but  to  whom 
would  he  reveal  himself?  To  Pharaoh 
on  his  throne?  To  the  doubting  elders 
of  Israel? 

He  kept  to  his  pattern  and  raised 
up  an  unspoiled  man  to  become  his 
prophet — a  shepherd  whose  name  was 
Moses.  To  him  he  spoke.  To  him  he 
appeared.  To  him  he  gave  power  to 
lead  the  children  of  Israel  out  of  Egypt. 

When  they  reached  Sinai,  God  came 
down  upon  the  Mount  and  talked  again 
face  to  face  with  Moses.  Seventy  of 
the  elders  of  Israel  went  into  the  Mount 
with  Moses,  and  there  they  saw  the  God 
of  Israel,  and  "he  laid  not  his  hand  upon 
them,"  the  scripture  says,  but  "they 
saw  God,  and  did  eat  and  drink."  (See 
Ex.  24:9-10.) 

Those  seventy  elders  with  Moses  were 
now  qualified  to  preach  to  the  people 
and  testify  of  the  true  nature  of  the 
Deity,  for  they  had  seen  him  themselves 
and  visited  with  him  and  heard  his 
voice. 

For  a  time  the  people  were  faithful 
after  this  new  revelation,  but  then 
wickedness  came  among  them.  Doubt 
returned,  many  drifted  into  the  for- 
bidden religions  of  their  neighbors,  and 
apostasy  came  upon  them  as  a  people. 
Do  you  recall  the  difficulties  of  Elijah, 
the  prophet,  with  the  wicked  King  Ahab 
who  led  his  whole  nation  astray?  Do 
you  remember  the  influence  of  Jezebel, 
and  do  you  recall  the  problems  which 
faced  Elisha  and  Isaiah? 

In  the  days  of  Jeremiah  the  apostasy 
was  so  great  that  this  prophet  was  cast 
into  a  dungeon.  When  John  the  Bap- 
tist ministered  among  the  people,  they 
were  so  far  astray  that  he  referred  to 
them  as  a  generation  of  vipers. 

Then    came    the    ministry   of  the 


Savior.  He  was  a  manifestation  of  the 
true  nature  of  God.  He  told  the  peo- 
ple that  he  resembled  the  Father.  Paul 
said  Jesus  was  in  the  express  image  of 
the  Father's  person. 

But  he  was  also  in  the  likeness  of 
other  men  about  him — his  disciples  and 
others.  He  was  so  much  like  them  that 
the  crucifiers  could  not  identify  him 
in  a  crowd.  They  had  to  bribe  Judas 
to  point  him  out  with  a  betrayer's  kiss 
so  that  they  would  not  arrest  the  wrong 
man.  That  was  the  whole  point  of  the 
betrayal. 

But  Jesus  was  also  in  the  express 
image  of  God's  person,  so  by  his  physi- 
cal ministry  among  them  the  people 
learned  of  the  nature  of  his  eternal 
Father  in  heaven. 

Many  followed  him.  At  one  time 
there  was  a  multitude  of  five  thousand; 
at  another  time,  four  thousand.  But 
even  in  his  own  day  a  falling  away 
came,  as  is  recorded  in  the  sixth  chap- 
ter of  John.  When  Jesus  preached 
doctrine  contrary  to  the  traditional 
beliefs,  many  turned  away. 

John  wrote  of  this,  saying:  "From  that 
time  many  of  his  disciples  went  back, 
and  walked  no  more  with  him. 

"Then  said  Jesus  unto  the  twelve, 
Will  ye  also  go  away? 

"Then  Simon  Peter  answered  him, 
Lord,  to  whom  shall  we  go?  thou  hast 
the  words  of  eternal  life."  (John 
6:66-68.) 

How  unfortunate  for  those  who  could 
not  stand  true  doctrine.  They  turned 
away,  preferring  their  own  darkness  to 
the  light  of  Christ. 

By  the  time  of  his  crucifixion  his 
faithful  followers  were  scattered.  After 
his  resurrection  and  ascension  into 
heaven  the  Saints  gathered  to  resume 
their  work  on  the  day  of  Pentecost,  but 
how  many  came?  Only  120  souls.  That 
is  all,  according  to  the  scriptures.  In- 
deed there  had  been  a  falling  away. 

But  now  came  another  revelation.  The 
Holy  Ghost  descended  upon  them  in 
great  power.  They  resumed  their  min- 
istry, and  thousands  joined  the  Church. 
But  persecution  arose  in  its  severest 
form.  Many  died  as  martyrs.  The 
apostles  lost  their  lives.  Error  then 
crept  in.  Philosophers  from  Greece 
added  to  the  difficulty  as  they  theorized 
about  the  previously  simple  doctrines  of 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

Christ.  Disputations  developed  between 
the  members  of  the  Church.  Differ- 
ences multiplied.  One  historian  says 
that  a  hundred  years  after  Christ  there 
were  thirty  different  Christian  sects. 

This  has  gone  on  until  our  own  day, 
when  the  various  denominations  of 
Christendom  number  in  the  hundreds. 
They  have  many  different  creeds  and 
sharply  contrasting  interpretations  and 
views  pertaining  to  the  nature  of  God. 

But  can  a  misunderstanding  of  the 
truth  bring  salvation?  The  Savior 
taught  there  is  but  one  straight  and 
narrow  way.  One  of  his  great  disciples 
wrote:  "One  Lord,  one  faith,  one  bap- 
tism, .  .  ."  (Eph.  4:5.)  Conditions  today 
are  much  as  they  were  anciently,  but 
in  times  of  old  when  they  reached  this 
point,  God  clarified  the  issues  by  giv- 
ing new  revelation  of  himself,  even  to 
the  point  of  raising  up  new  prophets 
through  whom  to  speak. 

Would  he  do  that  in  modern  times? 
Are  modern  people  as  precious  in  the 
sight  of  God  as  ancient  men  and 
women?  Would  he  make  repeated  ef- 
forts to  save  his  ancient  people  in  their 
times  of  confusion  and  not  do  the  same 
for  his  modern  children? 

God  is  the  same  today  as  yesterday. 
He  will  do  as  much  for  modern  men 
as  he  did  for  ancient  peoples.  But  does 
that  mean  a  modern  revelation  of  him- 
self? Would  modern  men  accept  such 
a  revelation? 

Again  the  Bible  points  the  way.  Not 
only  does  it  emphasize  that  a  falling 
away  would  occur,  but  it  also  says  that 
in  the  latter-days  God  indeed  would 
reveal  himself  again,  this  time  to  mod- 
ern men  to  restore  the  truth  and  to 
save  his  people. 

But  to  whom  would  he  appear?  To 
kings  or  potentates? 

As  in  the  days  of  Moses,  so  in  our  day, 
he  would  raise  up  a  new  prophet  not 
previously  known  to  man.  This  mod- 
ern Prophet  was  Joseph  Smith.  As  God 
appeared  to  Moses,  so  he  appeared  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  for  the  same  purpose 
— to  restore  the  true  knowledge  of  God 
so  that  mankind  could  worship  the 
Lord  intelligently. 

And  has  this  come  to  pass?  It  has. 
This  is  how  it  happened.  In  western 
New  York  State  religious  revivals  were 
being  held.    One  faith  said,  "Here  is 


Second  Day 

Christ."  Another,  "No,  here  is  Christ." 
Confusion  spread.  In  the  home  of 
Joseph  Smith  there  was  deep  concern. 
The  family  desired  to  know  which 
Church  was  right  that  they  might  join 
it.  Some  were  inclined  toward  one, 
some  to  another.  The  serious-minded 
boy,  Joseph  Smith,  searched  the  Bible. 
In  it  he  found  the  writings  of  James, 
who  said,  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom, 
let  him  ask  of  God,  .  .  ."  (James  1:5.) 

This  he  determined  to  do.  Going 
to  a  little  grove  of  trees  by  his  father's 
farm  near  Palmyra,  New  York,  he  knelt 
in  prayer.  In  response  he  received  a 
visitation  from  the  Almighty,  even  as 
did  Moses.  There  appeared  to  him  the 
Eternal  Father  of  heaven  and  earth  and 
his  Beloved  Son,  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  Jesus  the  Christ. 

Think  of  it!  God  came  to  the  United 
States  of  America,  together  with  his  di- 
vine Son,  and  they  appeared  personally 
to  that  boy  whom  they  had  chosen  to 
raise  up  as  an  American  Prophet,  even 
as  Moses  had  been  raised  up  in  his 
day.  So  it  was  that  Joseph  Smith 
learned  about  the  true  nature  of  God. 

But  that  was  not  enough.  The  Lord 
had  determined  to  restore  more  than 
this  knowledge  gained  in  that  brief 
visitation.  He  sent  angels  to  earth 
with  more  light,  this  in  fulfilment  of 
Bible  prophecy.  He  gave  Joseph  Smith 
divine  authority  for  this  modern  min- 
istry, even  as  he  had  given  the  divine 
authority  anciently,  permitting  men  to 
serve  as  his  duly  appointed  agents. 

A  church  was  to  be  organized,  the 
ancient  one  to  be  restored.  Baptism 
was  required  for  salvation,  but  who  had 
the  power  to  baptize?  The  Lord  sent 
the  authority  to  earth.  John  the  Baptist, 
who  baptized  the  Savior,  came  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  and 
gave  to  them  by  ordination  the  divine 
power  to  baptize  by  immersion  for  the 
remission  of  sin. 

Then  came  Peter,  James,  and  John 
of  the  ancient  twelve,  conferring  upon 
these  same  two  men  the  Holy  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood,  including  the 
apostleship  which  they  themselves  held. 
Thus  empowered,  Joseph  and  Oliver 
were  now  commanded  of  the  Lord  to 
organize  his  Church  on  the  earth  with 
all  the  gifts  and  powers  of  the  ancient 
Church. 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 


47 


This  they  did.  The  Lord  continued 
to  give  them  revelation  for  their  guid- 
ance, even  as  he  had  given  it  to  the 
ancient  prophets  for  the  perfecting  of 
the  Saints,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry, 
for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ. 

But  Jesus  came  again  and  yet  again. 
When  church  headquarters  were  estab- 
lished in  Kirtland,  Ohio,  the  Saints 
built  a  temple  there.  To  it  came  the 
Savior  of  the  world.  As  he  appeared 
to  Joseph  and  Oliver,  they  saw  his  face 
and  his  figure,  and  they  heard  his 
voice  as  he  said,  "I  am  the  first  and  the 
last;  I  am  he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who 
was  slain;  I  am  your  advocate  with  the 
Father."  (D&C  110:4.) 

At  another  time  when  Joseph  was  ac- 
companied by  Sidney  Rigdon,  another 
glorious  revelation  of  the  Savior  was 
experienced.   They  wrote  of  it: 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimon- 
ies which  have  been  given  of  him,  this 
is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we 
give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God;  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  76:22-23.) 

So  what  is  Mormonism,  so-called?  It 


is  a  new  revelation  of  God,  given  to 
modern  men  through  modern  prophets 
for  the  salvation  of  all  who  will  hear. 
We  invite  all  mankind  to  give  ear  to 
its  teachings,  for  it  is  the  divine  truth 
of  God  restored  in  our  day.  Of  this  we 
solemnly  testify  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
will  now  sing,  "O  Great  Is  the  Depth," 
from  the  Saint  Paul  Oratorio  by 
Mendelssohn. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  an  an- 
them, "O  Great  Is  The  Depth,"  from 
the  St.  Paul  Oratorio  by  Mendelssohn. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  be  our  concluding  speaker. 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  wish  to  speak  to  young  people  every- 
where. I  confess  to  being  partial  to 
those  of  you  who  are  in  your  teens.  The 
very  qualities  that  cause  some  of  us  who 
are  a  bit  older  to  worry  about  you — 
youthful  exuberance,  resistance  to  re- 
straint and  domination — when  matured 
a  little  will  be  your  great  strength. 

When  we  hear  the  question,  and  we 
often  do,  "What  is  wrong  with  our 
teenagers?"  I  want  to  thunder  out, 
"The  only  thing  wrong  with  teenagers 
is  that  there  aren't  enough  of  them." 
I  wish,  earnestly  wish,  that  this  could 
be  a  private  conversation,  for  I  am 
prompted  to  talk  to  you  about  a  very 
personal  and  sacred  matter.  But  I  have 
such  faith  in  you  to  be  willing  to  talk 
to  you  about  this  subject  when  your 
fathers  and  mothers  are  present.  In 
fact,  I  think  you  will  come  to  know  how 
important  it  is  to  have  them  present. 

I  take  my  text  from  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon.   Jacob,  a  great  Book  of  Mormon 


prophet,  was  teaching  his  people  in  the 
temple,  and  we  find  this  descriptive 
verse:  "Wherefore  I,  Jacob,  gave  unto 
them  these  words  as  I  taught  them  in 
the  temple,  having  first  obtained  mine 
errand  from  the  Lord."  (Jacob  1:17.)  I 
repeat,  "having  first  obtained  mine 
errand  from  the  Lord."  It  is  about  this 
errand,  your  errand,  that  I  would  speak. 

Not  too  long  ago  I  rode  for  several 
hundred  miles  with  a  group  which  in- 
cluded a  boy  named  Henry.  Though 
Henry  was  just  in  his  early  teens  I  was 
impressed  with  his  inquisitive  nature, 
with  his  searching,  intelligent  questions, 
and  I  thought,  "Here  is  a  young  man 
with  whom  I  can  talk  man  to  man  about 
things  spiritual."  Henry  has  already 
obtained  part  of  his  errand.  He  is 
planning  years  ahead  for  service  in  the 
mission  field.  In  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  there  is  not 
only  room  for  young  men  and  women, 
but  you  are  needed  here.   The  majority 


48 

Saturday,  October  6 

of  nearly  12,000  full  time  missionaries 
serving  throughout  the  world — in  Yoko- 
hama and  Hong  Kong,  in  Melbourne 
and  Auckland,  in  Santiago  and  Hermo- 
sillo,  in  Hamburg  and  Vienna — the  great 
majority  are  young  men  just  past  nine- 
teen years  of  age.  In  this  Church  you 
are  not  only  given  full  opportunity  and 
full  responsibility,  but  also  full  ecclesi- 
astical authority.  It  is  when  I  contem- 
plate this  that  I  repeat,  here  teenagers 
are  not  just  tolerated,  here  they  are 
needed.  And  it  is  when  I  contemplate 
this  that  I  want  to  repeat  again,  the  only 
thing  wrong  with  you  teenagers  is  that 
there  aren't  enough  of  you. 

When  I  speak,  I  include  in  this  errand 
all  of  you,  not  just  those  of  you  who 
have  already  distinguished  yourselves — 
the  captain  of  the  football  team,  the 
valedictorian,  the  college  or  high  school 
beauty  queen.  You  are  included,  but  I 
am  speaking  at  least  as  much  to  you 
who  consider  yourselves  nobody  or  at 
best  just  anybody.  Some  of  you  have 
been  involved  in  serious  trouble  and 
difficulty  that  is  only  partly  of  your 
own  making.  Some  of  you  I  am  sure, 
feel  your  parents  don't  love  you.  In 
this  I  am  sure  you  are  mistaken.  Some 
of  you  feel  that  because  of  these  mis- 
takes that  what  I  say  shall  not  apply 
to  you.  You  may  even  feel  that  no  one 
has  a  regard  for  you,  that  even  the 
Lord  doesn't  love  you.  In  this  you  are 
most  certainly  in  error. 

If  you  obtain  your  errand  in  life  from 
the  Lord,  there  is  a  special  spiritual 
preparation  necessary.  It  is  something 
you  must  do  alone,  each  of  you,  indi- 
vidually, by  yourselves.  It  is  intimate 
and  personal  and  sacred.  It  relates  to 
the  most  delicate  and  sensitive  of  your 
feelings,  and  it  is  only  in  the  spirit  of 
reverence  that  I  approach  this  subject 
with  you. 

To  achieve  this  spiritual  preparation 
you  must  set  out  on  a  quest.  The  quest 
has  all  of  the  aspects  of  high  adventure. 
It  will  require  the  gallantry  of  knight- 
hood, all  of  the  virtues  of  the  storybook 
princess.  It  will  take  the  resourceful- 
ness of  the  pioneer,  the  courage  of  the 
astronaut,  and  the  humility  of  a  true 
saint.  It  will  require  some  unteenage- 
like  maturity.  I  say  this  because  right 
now  as  teenagers  you  are  trying  to  assert 
yourselves,  trying  to  say  to  the  world, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

mostly  to  yourselves,  "I  am  somebody." 
But,  this  preparation  will  require  some 
different  attributes,  some  that  perhaps 
have  not  matured  in  you  as  yet.  It  is 
almost  out  of  keeping  with  your  teen- 
age personalities  for  you  to  be  sub- 
missive and  humble,  isn't  it? 

Recently  I  was  tucking  one  of  our 
little  boys  in  bed.  He  was  just  five. 
There  had  been  a  difference  of  opinion 
as  to  whether  it  was  bedtime  or  not. 
He  had  been  guided  gently  to  bed  with 
something  less  than  democracy.  He 
looked  up  at  me  from  under  the  covers 
and  gritted  his  little  teeth  and  said, 
"You  not  in  charge  of  me."  Wise  be- 
yond his  years  he  spoke  just  like  one  of 
you  teenagers.  And,  it  is  against  this 
natural  expression  of  youth  that  you  will 
find  your  greatest  contest. 

The  errand,  the  quest,  is  the  search 
for  a  testimony — an  individual  convic- 
tion, a  certain  knowledge  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  that  God  lives.  Although 
much  of  religious  expression  is  in  group 
activity,  this  matter  of  testimony  is  not. 
It  is  individual — on  your  own,  by  your- 
self. It  is  because  I  have  such  confidence 
in  you  that  I  approach  this  sacred  sub- 
ject. I  have  confidence  in  all  of  the 
Henry's  and  the  Bob's  and  Diane's  and 
Beverly's  and  Allen's,  and  so  I  speak 
pointedly  to  you. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  about 
your  age,  in  his  fifteenth  year,  when 
he  wanted  to  know  for  himself,  for 
sure,  what  his  errand  in  life  should 
be.  And,  after  reading  James,  chapter 
1,  verse  5:  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom, 
let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all 
men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and 
it  shall  be  given  him,"  he  came  to  the 
conclusion,  "...  I  must  either  remain 
in  darkness  and  confusion,  or  else  I 
must  do  as  James  directs,  that  is,  ask 
of  God.  I  at  length  came  to  the  deter- 
mination to  'ask  of  God'  concluding 
that  if  he  gave  wisdom  to  them  that 
lacked  wisdom,  and  would  give  liber- 
ally, and  not  upbraid,  I  would  venture." 
(Joseph  Smith  2:13.) 

Do  you  know  how  to  pray,  teenager? 
Have  you  ever  tried  it — by  yourself, 
alone?  Have  you  ever  knelt  down  and 
poured  out  your  soul  to  your  Father 
in  heaven,  asking  for  help,  asking  him 
to  guide  you  as  you  seek  for  your 
errand  in  life? 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 


49 


Joseph  Smith  sought  seclusion,  by 
himself,  alone,  as  a  teenage  individual 
to  attempt  to  pray.  He  asked  the  Lord 
two  questions;  first,  which  of  all  the 
churches  is  true,  and  next,  which  he 
should  join.  These  two  questions  are 
appropriate  for  every  teenager  to  ask, 
those  of  you  who  are  in  the  Church 
and  those  of  you  who  are  seeking  after 
truth.  Now,  if  you  have  the  inclina- 
tion or  the  desire  to  find  out  for  your- 
selves, you  are  entering  in  by  the  way. 
Again  from  the  Book  of  Mormon  I 
quote  the  Prophet  Nephi,  who  had 
been  speaking  to  his  people  about  this 
matter  of  testimony,  and  near  the  con- 
clusion of  his  sermon  he  said: 

"Wherefore,  now  after  I  have  spoken 
these  words,  if  ye  cannot  understand 
them  it  will  be  because  ye  ask  not, 
neither  do  ye  knock;  wherefore,  ye  are 
not  brought  into  the  light,  but  must 
perish  in  the  dark. 

"For  behold,  again  I  say  unto  you 
that  if  ye  will  enter  in  by  the  way,  and 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost,  it  will  show 
unto  you  all  things  what  ye  should 
do."  (2  Nephi  32:4-5.) 

There  is  a  difference,  you  know,  be- 
tween saying  prayers  and  praying. 
Don't  expect  it  all  to  come  at  once.  It 
is  worth  earning.  Your  efforts  may 
seem  in  vain,  but  pray  unceasingly,  un- 
yielding. The  Prophet  Moroni  said: 

".  .  .  dispute  not  because  ye  see  not, 
for  ye  receive  no  witness  until  after 
the  trial  of  your  faith."  (Ether  12:6.) 

Once  you  have  a  testimony  of  your 
own,  some  things  won't  seem  to  change 
a  great  deal.  You  will  still  have  to 
work  for  what  you  get.  You  won't  be 
immune  to  illness  or  death.  You  will 
still  have  problems  to  solve,  but  you 
will  have  great  strength,  and  you  will 
be  prompted  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
in  the  solution  of  these  problems.  As 
you  accept  membership  in  the  Church, 
you  have  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
conferred  upon  you.  Some  of  you  who 
are  young  members  of  the  Church  and 
some  of  us  who  are  older  have  made 
very  little  use  of  this  gift.  It  is  a  quiet 
gift.  It  is  a  still  small  voice.  May  I 
illustrate? 

Many  years  ago  my  parents  lived  on 
a  modest  little  farm.  They  were 
ordinary   people    of   humble  circum- 


stances. They  had  prayerfully  asked 
the  Lord  to  bless  them  with  all  of  the 
necessities  of  life  and  some  of  the 
comforts  and  conveniences.  One  Mon- 
day morning  Father  came  in  from  the 
field.  He  had  broken  the  plow.  "I 
must  go  into  Brigham  City,"  he  said, 
"and  get  some  welding  done.  Would 
you  like  to  go?"  Mother  was  washing, 
but  she  hastily  set  things  aside  and 
prepared  the  youngsters  for  a  trip  to 
town.  The  big  copper  boiler  was  lifted 
from  the  range,  the  buckets  of  hot 
water  were  set  off  the  stove  into  the 
bedroom.  Mother  took  the  youngsters 
to  the  front  gate  where  Father  soon 
appeared  with  the  white-topped  buggy. 
As  she  put  her  foot  onto  the  step,  she 
paused  and  said,  "Dad,  somehow  I 
think  I  shouldn't  go  with  you  today." 
You  can  imagine  the  conversation. 
"But  why  not?  Hurry,  time  is  wasting. 
You  know  you  have  shopping  to  do." 
Mother  finally  said,  "I  just  feel  like  I 
shouldn't  go."  Thank  goodness  Father 
didn't  tease  her  out  of  it.  "If  you  feel 
that  way,  Mother,"  he  said,  "perhaps 
you  should  stay  home." 

She  lifted  the  youngsters  out  of  the 
buggy,  and  you  can  well  guess  what 
they  started  to  do.  Dad  shook  the 
reins,  the  buggy  pulled  down  across 
the  bridge,  up  the  opposite  bank  and 
out  of  sight,  and  she  has  told  me  many 
times  that  she  stood  there  and  said  to 
herself,  "Now  wasn't  that  silly  of  me." 
She  busied  herself  with  her  washing 
again  and  in  a  moment  or  two  she 
smelled  smoke.  Everything  they  owned, 
much  of  what  they  had  prayed  for,  was 
in  that  modest  little  home.  She  didn't 
find  the  fire  until  the  ceiling  of  the 
bedroom  burst  into  flame,  a  ceiling 
made  of  muslin,  sized  with  glue  and 
wallpapered.  A  rusted  stove  pipe  had 
permitted  a  spark  to  fall  and  settle  in 
the  dust  atop  the  ceiling.  A  bucket 
brigade  from  the  back  pump,  and  the 
fire  was  soon  out,  and  the  incident 
closes  without  significance,  unless  you 
ask  the  question,  "Why  didn't  she  go 
to  town  that  day?" 

There  is  a  sentence  that  has  been 
tremendously  important  to  me  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  Nephi  in  speaking 
to  Laman  and  Lemuel  said: 

".  .  .  Ye  have  seen  an  angel,  and  he 


50 

Saturday,  October  6 

spake  unto  you;  yea,  ye  have  heard  his 
voice  from  time  to  time;  and  he  hath 
spoken  unto  you  in  a  still  small  voice, 
but  ye  were  past  feeling,  that  ye  could 
not  feel  his  words;  .  .  ."  (1  Nephi 
17:45.) 

Again,  I  say,  teenagers,  that  you  are 
needed  in  this  Church.  There  is  a 
great  mission,  a  great  errand  for  you 
to  perform.  Young  Henry  will  hardly 
be  prepared  in  time  for  his  mission 
call.  Some  of  us,  in  our  youthfulness, 
may  unwisely  want  to  say  to  our 
Father  in  heaven  that  which  my  little 
son  said  to  me.  We  may  be  tempted 
to  grit  our  teeth  and  say  to  him, 
"You're  not  in  charge  of  me."  This 
spirit  is  present  in  the  poem  "Invictus" 
which  concludes: 

"It  matters  not  how  straight  the  gate — 
How   charged   with   punishment  the 
scroll. 

I  am  the  master  of  my  fate, 
J  am  the  captain  of  my  soul." 

William  Ernest  Henley 

It  takes  a  spirit  different  from  that  if 
you,  teenagers,  will  find  your  testi- 
mony. The  late  Orson  F.  Whitney  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
wrote  a  poem  entitled  "The  Soul's 
Captain."  In  answer  to  the  declaration 
"7  am  the  captain  of  my  soul!"  Brother 
Whitney  said: 

"Art  thou  in  truth? 

Then  what  of  him  who  bought  thee 

with  his  blood? 
Who  plunged  into  devouring  seas 
And  snatched  thee  from  the  flood, 
"Who  bore  for  all  our  fallen  race 
What  none  but  him  could  bear — 
The  God  who  died  that  man  might 

live 

And  endless  glory  share. 

"Of  what  avail  thy  vaunted  strength 
Apart  from  his  vast  might? 
Pray  that  his  light  may  pierce  the 
gloom 

That  thou  mayest  see  aright. 

"Men  are  as  bubbles  on  the  wave, 
As  leaves  upon  the  tree, 
Thou,  captain  of  thy  soul!  Forsooth, 
Who  gave  that  place  to  thee? 

"Free  will  is  thine — free  agency, 
To  wield  for  right  or  wrong; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


But  thou  must  answer  unto  him 
To  whom  all  souls  belong. 

"Bend  to  the  dust  that  'head  unbowed,' 
Small  part  of  life's  great  whole, 
And  see  in  him  and  him  alone, 
The  captain  of  thy  soul." 

Humbly,  my  teenage  friends,  I  tell 
you  that  I  as  well  as  all  of  these  breth- 
ren here,  have  made  that  quest.  Though 
less  qualified  perhaps  than  you,  it  be- 
came my  blessing  to  know  for  sure 
which  of  all  the  churches  is  true,  and 
it  is  because  of  experience  that  I  hold 
out  to  you,  not  just  the  possibility  that 
God  will  answer  your  prayer,  but  the 
very  certainty  of  it.  We  tell  you  that 
in  this  Church  there  is  love  for  you. 
In  this  Church  you  are  needed.  We 
love  you  because  the  Lord  loves  you.  I 
bear  humble  witness  that  I  know  that 
God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  he  loves  all  of  us,  in- 
cluding the  youth.  And  I  bear  that 
witness  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  spoken  to  us  is  Elder 
Boyd  K.  Packer,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 

We  shall  conclude  this  session  of  the 
132nd  Semi- Annual  Conference  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  singing 
"Of  The  Father's  Love  Begotten."  Fol- 
lowing the  singing  the  benediction  will 
be  offered  by  Elder  Paul  Sherman  Rose, 
president  of  the  Murray  Stake.  This 
Conference  will  then  be  adjourned  until 
two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

We  express  our  deep  appreciation  to 
the  owners  and  managers  of  the  125 
television  stations  and  30  radio  stations 
who  have  offered  their  facilities  as  a 
public  service,  to  make  the  proceedings 
of  this  Conference  available  to  millions 
throughout  North  America,  South  Amer- 
ica, Europe,  and  in  many  other  areas 
of  the  world. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing 
"Of  The  Father's  Love  Begotten." 

Selection  by  the  Choir,  "Of  The 
Father's  Love  Begotten." 

President  Paul  Sherman  Rose  of  the 
Murray  Stake  offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  at  2:00 
p.m.,  Saturday,  October  6.  President 
David  O.  McKay  presided  and  con- 
ducted the  services. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  Combined  Choirs  of 
the  Brigham  Young  University  and  the 
Brass  Choir,  John  R.  Halliday  con- 
ducting. Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the 
organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

For  the  information  of  those  who  are 
listening  in  over  the  radio  or  looking  at 
television,  we  are  pleased  to  announce 
that  we  are  assembled  in  the  great  Tab- 
ernacle on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake 
City,  in  the  fourth  session  of  the  132nd 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church. 
These  services  are  being  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  by  television.  Those 
who  are  standing  in  the  doorways  may 
possibly  find  seats  in  this  building.  This 
session  of  the  Conference  will  be  broad- 
cast as  a  public  service  over  television 
and  radio  stations  throughout  the  west. 
The  names  of  these  stations  were  an- 
nounced prior  to  the  beginning  of  this 
meeting.  We  deeply  appreciate  the  serv- 
ices that  are  now  rendered  by  these 
stations. 

You  will  be  interested  to  know  that 
this  morning's  session  was  video  taped 
and  will  be  released  tomorrow  morning 
over  television  to  the  eastern  part  of 
the  nation  over  97  television  stations. 
This  is  the  reason  why  we  inserted  addi- 
tional musical  numbers  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  and  were  obligated  to  limit 
the  time  given  to  our  speakers. 

A  telegram  has  come  to  us  this  morn- 
ing from  Hong  Kong  from  President  and 
Sister  Jay  A.  Quealy  of  the  Southern  Far 
East  Mission:  "Dear  Brethren,  the 
elders,  sisters  and  Saints  of  the  Southern 
Far  East  Mission  send  our  love  and 
prayers  to  all  assembled  in  Conference." 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  attendance 
this  afternoon  of  special  guests,  promi- 
nent state  and  city  officials,  and  leaders 
in  educational  circles,  to  all  of  whom  we 


extend  a  hearty  welcome.  We  are  also 
pleased  to  welcome  our  stake,  ward  and 
temple  authorities,  and  General  Aux- 
iliary Officers  of  the  Church.  We 
extend  a  cordial  welcome  to  our  radio 
and  television  audience  and  all  who  are 
gathered  in  the  Tabernacle. 

The  singing  this  afternoon  will  be 
furnished  by  the  Combined  Choirs  of 
the  Brigham  Young  University,  assisted 
by  the  Brass  Choir,  conducted  by  John 
R.  Halliday,  with  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Combined  Choirs  of  the  Brigham  Young 
University  and  the  Brass  Choir  render- 
ing "Psalm  149,"  conducted  by  Profes- 
sor John  R.  Halliday.  The  invocation 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Frank  Levi 
Hall,  president  of  the  Emery  Stake. 


The  Combined  Choirs  of  the  Brig- 
ham Young  University  and  the  Brass 
Choir  rendered  the  number  "Psalm 
149." 

Elder  Frank  Levi  Hall,  president  of 
the  Emery  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Frank  Levi  Hall,  president  of 
the  Emery  Stake,  offered  the  invocation. 
The  Combined  Choirs  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University  will  now  favor  us 
with  "Holy  Temples  On  Mount 
Zion,"  conducted  by  Professor  John  R. 
Halliday. 


The  Combined  Choirs  rendered  the 
number,  "Holy  Temples  On  Mount 
Zion." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Before  President  Moyle  presents  for 
your  consideration  the  General  Officers 
of  the  Church,  I  desire  to  present  to  you 
an  honorable  release  of  one  who  has 
served  faithfully  and  well  for  over  four 
and  one-half  years.  We  have  considered 


52 

Saturday,  October  6 

well  his  labors  and  he  is  perfectly  will- 
ing to  continue.  I  refer  to  Elder  Joseph 
T.  Bentley,  General  Superintendent  of 
the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  of  the  entire  Church.  He  is 
also  a  prominent  officer  in  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Faculty. 

We  have  had  a  talk  with  him  and 
have  a  thorough  understanding  of  his 
duties  in  the  school  and  also  his  faith- 
ful service  as  General  Superintendent  of 
the  MIA  of  the  Church.  The  First 
Presidency  and  the  Twelve  feel  that  we 
are  asking  too  much  of  him  to  carry  on 
the  work  in  school  and  carry  the  re- 
sponsibility as  Superintendent  of  this 
great  organization.  He  is  perfectly  will- 
ing to  continue  or  to  be  released  just  as 
we  see  fit.  We  haven't  spoken  to  the 
President  of  the  B.Y.U.  and  maybe  we'll 
get  scolded  for  what  we  are  doing,  but 
we  have  consulted  with  President  Wilk- 
inson and  know  the  responsibility  that 
Brother  Bentley  is  carrying  and  we  com- 
mend Brother  Bentley  for  the  work  he 
has  done,  the  able  service  rendered,  and 
for  his  willing  spirit  and  his  expressed 
willingness  now  to  do  just  whatever  we 
feel  would  be  right  for  him  and  the 
Church. 

And  so,  in  behalf  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve,  we  present  to 
you  the  recommendation  that  Brother 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Bentley  be  honorably  released  as  Gen- 
eral Superintendent  of  the  YMMIA,  with 
an  expression  of  appreciation  for  his 
able  labors,  and  we  pray  that  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  will  attend  him  in  his 
future  work  in  the  school. 

All  who  are  in  favor  of  this  action 
manifest  it  by  raising  the  right  hand. 
Any  opposed  by  the  same  sign. 

For  27  years  Brother  Lester  F.  Hewlett 
has  been  president  and  manager  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  His  release  comes 
from  a  higher  source.  He  was  called  on 
September  5,  1962  to  answer  the  final 
summons.  A  great  mission  he  per- 
formed in  this  great  organization,  espe- 
cially during  the  latest  ten  years.  It 
was  his  happiness  and  joy  to  see  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  become  an  interna- 
tional organization.  Under  his  direction 
the  Choir  went  to  Europe,  was  promi- 
nent on  the  Telstar  Presentation,  made 
a  trip  to  the  Northwest,  and  there  were 
many  other  national  and  international 
presentations  by  this  wonderful  Choir. 
God  bless  his  memory.  The  vacancy 
will  be  filled  with  the  other  organiza- 
tions this  day. 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  will  now 
present  the  General  Authorities  and 
General  Officers  of  the  Church  for  the 
sustaining  vote  of  the  Conference. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Marion  G.  Romney 

Harold  B.  Lee  LeGrand  Richards 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Howard  W.  Hunter 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  53 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Alma  Sonne  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

El  Ray  L.  Christiansen  Franklin  D.  Richards 

John  Longden  Theodore  M.  Burton 

Sterling  W.  Sill  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Henry  D.  Taylor  Boyd  K.  Packer 

William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.  Bernard  P.  Brockbank 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 

Milton  R.  Hunter 

Presiding  Bishopric 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding  Bishop 
Robert  L.  Simpson,  First  Counselor 
Victor  L.  Brown,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  and 
Preston  Nibley  as  Assistants. 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


54 

Saturday,  October  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

G.  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  General  Superintendent 
Marvin  J.  Ashton,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Florence  Smith  Jacobsen,  President 
Margaret  Romney  Jackson,  First  Counselor 
Dorothy  Palmer  Holt,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Primary  Association 


LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  First  Counselor 
Eileen  R.  Dunyon,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Church  Board  of  Education 


David  O.  McKay 
Henry  D.  Moyle 
Hugh  B.  Brown 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 
Mark  E.  Petersen 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 


LeGrand  Richards 
Richard  L.  Evans 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 
Boyd  K.  Packer 
Marion  D.  Hanks 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 
John  H.  Vandenberg 


Chancellor  of  the  Church  School  System 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 


Church  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 


Senior  Church  Auditors 


Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


55 


CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 


Harold  B.  Lee 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 
LeGrand  Richards 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Alma  Sonne 
El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 


John  Longden 
Henry  D.  Taylor 
Antoine  R.  Ivins 
John  H.  Vandenberg 
Robert  L.  Simpson 
Victor  L.  Brown 


General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Chairman 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Managing  Director 


Paul  C.  Child 
Mark  B.  Garff 
William  T.  Lawrence 
Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 
Walter  Dansie 
LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 


Walter  Stover 
A.  Lewis  Elggren 
Donald  Ellsworth 
Casper  H.  Parker 
Alfred  B.  Smith 


Tabernacle  Choir 


Isaac  M.  Stewart,  President 
Theodore  L.  Cannon,  Vice  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 
W.  Jack  Thomas,  Tour  Manager 


Organists 


Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 


President  Moyle: 

President  McKay,  it  appears  that  the 
voting  has  all  been  unanimous  in  the 
affirmative. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  brothers  and  sisters,  for 


this  unanimous  sustaining  vote.  We 
appreciate  your  cooperation,  your  loyalty 
and  service.  God  bless  you,  and  bless 
us  as  we  continue  to  serve  and  build 
up  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first 
speaker  this  afternoon. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

In  these  days  of  radio  and  television,  all  the  people  of  the  earth.    From  yards 

we  may  preach  to  all  the  world.  Yes-  to  miles  to  Telstars  to   planets  the 

terday,  the  human  voice  could  be  heard  human  voice  may  now  be  carried.  The 

only  hundreds  of  yards.    Today,  the  prophet  of  God  may  now  be  heard  in 

Lord  having  opened  the  way,  modern  all  the  world,  fulfilling  completely  the 

inventions  permit  our  bearing  witness  to  command:  ".  . .  Go  ye  into  all  the  world, 


56 

Saturday,  October  6 

and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 

"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  .  .  ."  (Mark  16:15-16. 
Italics  added.) 

"For  the  hour  is  nigh,  and  that  which 
was  spoken  by  mine  apostles  must  be 
fulfilled;  for  as  they  spoke  so  shall  it 
come  to  pass;  .  .  ."  (D&C  29:10.) 

Satan's  threat  to  take  all  those  who 
will  follow  him  is  no  idle  boast.  He 
may  be  depended  on  to  engulf  and  cap- 
ture all  who  will  listen  to  him.  The 
Lord  announces:  ".  .  .  ye  are  called  to 
lift  up  your  voices  as  with  the  sound 
of  a  trump,  to  declare  my  gospel  unto  a 
crooked  and  perverse  generation. 

".  .  .  the  field  is  white  already  to 
harvest;  and  it  is  the  eleventh  hour,  and 
the  last  time  that  I  shall  call  laborers 
into  my  vineyard. 

"And  my  vineyard  has  become  cor- 
rupted every  whit; . . ."  (Ibid.,  33:2-4.) 

Nephi  in  his  parting  testimony  re- 
iterated: ".  .  .  wherefore,  no  man  will  be 
angry  at  the  words  which  I  have  written 
save  he  shall  be  of  the  spirit  of  the 
devil."  (2  Nephi  33:5.) 

More  often,  we  warn  the  youth  of 
the  pitfalls  endangering  them,  but  to- 
day, let  us  warn  the  married  folk,  among 
whom  there  are  many  who  suffer  with 
discontent,  jangling,  and  broken  homes 
which,  as  we  know,  are  the  cradles  for 
delinquencies. 

The  world  is  increasing  in  wicked- 
ness. We  see  the  wanton  disregard  for 
the  Sabbath,  the  limited  number  really 
active  in  any  religious  program,  the 
graft,  dishonesty,  delinquency,  divorce, 
and  immorality. 

In  his  address  to  the  Relief  Society 
sisters  on  Wednesday,  President  McKay 
quoted  evidence  that  the  world  is  ripen- 
ing in  iniquity.  "Today,  lawlessness  is 
on  the  increase,  the  cost  of  crime  at  all 
levels  in  the  United  States  is  $22  billion, 
over  $4  billion  more  than  is  spent  for 
education.  Sixteen  percent  of  the  total 
of  $141  billion  tax  load  at  all  levels  of 
government  is  spent  on  crime.  It  rep- 
resents a  cost  of  $128.00  last  year  for 
every  person  in  the  United  States." 

President  McKay  pointed  to  the  in- 
crease of  34  percent  in  the  crime  rate 
in  the  past  five  years,  while  the  popula- 
tion increase  was  seven  percent.  And, 
we  are  constrained  to  ask,  "How  long 
will  the  Lord  tolerate  this  people  when 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

crime  increases  nearly  five  times  as  fast 
as  the  population?"  Now,  as  we  speak 
of  a  sharp  rise  in  iniquity,  we  are  not 
unmindful  of  those  numerous  good  peo- 
ple to  whom  the  home  life  and  the 
commandments  of  God  are  still  their 
magnificent  obsession.  They  have  their 
reward.  But  all  too  many  are  following 
the  path  of  evil,  and  our  voices  must 
sound  a  warning. 

The  revelations  say:  "Wherefore  the 
decree  hath  gone  forth  from  the 
Father,  .  .  . 

"For  the  hour  is  nigh  and  the  day 
soon  at  hand  when  the  earth  is  ripe; 
and  all  the  proud  and  they  that  do 
wickedly  shall  be  as  stubble;  and  I  will 
burn  them  up,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts, 
that  wickedness  shall  not  be  upon  the 
earth;  .  .  ."  (D&C  29:8-9.) 

And  again:  ".  .  .  wo  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  the  whole  earth  except  they 
shall  repent;  for  the  devil  laugheth,  and 
his  angels  rejoice,  .  .  ."  (3  Nephi  9:2.) 

"Wo  unto  them  .  .  .  and  in  that  day 
that  they  are  fully  ripe  in  iniquity  they 
shall  perish.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  at  that  day  shall  he  [the  devil] 
rage  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of 
men,  and  stir  them  up  to  anger  against 
that  which  is  good."  (2  Nephi  28:16, 
20.) 

Infidelity  is  one  of  the  great  sins  of 
our  generation.  The  movies,  the  books, 
the  magazine  stories  all  seem  to  glamor- 
ize the  faithlessness  of  husbands  and 
wives.  Nothing  is  holy,  not  even  mar- 
riage vows.  The  unfaithful  woman  is 
the  heroine  and  is  justified,  and  the 
hero  is  so  built  up  that  he  can  do  no 
wrong.  It  reminds  us  of  Isaiah  who  said: 
"Wo  unto  those  who  call  evil  good,  and 
good  evil;  .  .  ."  (Isaiah  5:20.) 

We  make  no  apology  then  for  raising 
our  voices  loud  to  a  world  that  is  ripen- 
ing in  sin.  The  Lord  has  said:  "Say 
nothing  but  repentance  unto  this  gen- 
eration; .  .  ."  (D&C  6:9.) 

The  adversary  is  subtle;  he  is  cunning, 
he  knows  that  he  cannot  induce  good 
men  and  women  immediately  to  do 
major  evils  so  he  moves  slyly,  whispering 
half  truths  until  he  has  his  intended 
victims  following  him,  and  finally  he 
clamps  his  chains  upon  them  and  fetters 
them  tight,  and  then  he  laughs  at  their 
discomfiture  and  their  misery. 

The  age-old  sins  continue  with  us 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


57 


today.  The  cry  of  repentance  is  to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  peo- 
ple. "But  wo  unto  him  that  has  the  law 
given,  yea,  that  has  all  the  command- 
ments of  God,  like  unto  us,  and  that 
transgresseth  them,  and  that  wasteth  the 
days  of  his  probation,  for  awful  is  his 
state!"  (2  Nephi  9:27.) 

To  those  people  who  hide  their  guilt 
and  will  not  abandon  nor  confess,  the 
Lord  says:  "By  this  ye  may  know  if  a 
man  repenteth  of  his  sins — behold,  he 
will  confess  them  and  forsake  them." 
(D&C  58:43.) 

"...  I  command  you  again  to  repent, 
lest  I  humble  you  with  my  almighty 
power;  and  that  you  confess  your  sins, 
lest  you  suffer  these  punishments  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  19:20.) 

And  again,  he  says:  ".  .  .  hearken  to 
the  voice  of  the  Lord  your  God,  [who] 
...  is  a  discerner  of  the  thoughts  and 
intents  of  the  heart."  (Ibid.,  33:1.) 

And,  again:  "Or  do  ye  imagine  to 
yourselves  that  ye  can  lie  unto  the 
Lord.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  can  ye  imagine  yourselves 
brought  before  the  tribunal  of  God  with 
your  souls  filled  with  guilt  and  remorse, 
having  ...  a  remembrance  that  ye  have 
set  at  defiance  the  commandments  of 
God? 

".  .  .  can  ye  look  up  to  God  at  that 
day  with  a  pure  heart  and  clean 
hands?  .  .  ."  (Alma  5:17-19.)  Sins  can- 
not be  forever  hidden. 

And  Jacob  stated:  ".  .  .  by  the  help 
of  the  all-powerful  Creator  of  heaven 
and  earth  I  can  tell  you  concerning  your 
thoughts,  how  that  ye  are  beginning  to 
labor  in  sin,  which  sin  appeareth  very 
abominable  unto  me,  yea,  and  abom- 
inable unto  God."  (Jacob  2:5.)  Some 
folk  hide  their  guilt  and  will  not  con- 
fess, and  this  is  what  Lucifer  desires.  He 
has  a  greater  hold  on  them. 

Peter,  a  man  of  God,  discerned  that 
Ananias  and  Sapphira  had  held  back 
part  of  the  returns  from  their  sale  and 
said:  ". .  .  Ananias,  why  hath  Satan  filled 
thine  heart  to  lie  to  the  Holy  Ghost,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  thou  hast  not  lied  unto  men, 
but  unto  God."  (Acts  5:3-4.) 

And  in  our  own  day  the  Lord  prom- 
ised his  bishops  and  other  appointees: 
".  .  .  to  have  it  given  unto  them  to 
discern  all  those  gifts  lest  there  shall  be 
any  among  you  professing  and  yet  be 


not  of  God."  (D&C  46:27.)  And,  again, 
".  .  .  and  those  who  are  not  pure,  and 
have  said  they  were  pure,  shall  be  de- 
stroyed, saith  the  Lord  God."  (Ibid., 
132:52.)  Men's  thoughts  and  lives  are 
engraved  on  their  faces. 

Some  let  their  marriages  get  stale  and 
common,  the  Lord  says:  ".  .  .  whoso 
forbiddeth  to  marry  is  not  ordained  of 
God,  for  marriage  is  ordained  of  God 
unto  man. 

"Wherefore,  it  is  lawful  that  he 
should  have  one  wife,  and  they  twain 
shall  be  one  flesh,  and  all  this  that  the 
earth  might  answer  the  end  of  its  crea- 
tion; .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  49:15-16.)  There  are 
those  married  people  who  permit  their 
eyes  to  wander  and  their  hearts  to  be- 
come vagrant,  who  think  it  is  not 
improper  to  flirt  a  little,  to  share  their 
hearts,  and  have  desire  for  someone 
other  than  the  wife  or  the  husband,  the 
Lord  says  in  no  uncertain  terms:  "Thou 
shalt  love  thy  wife  with  all  thy  heart, 
and  shall  cleave  unto  her  and  none 
else."  (Ibid.,  42:22.  Italics  added.) 

And,  when  the  Lord  says  all  thy  heart, 
it  allows  for  no  sharing  nor  dividing 
nor  depriving.  And,  to  the  woman  it  is 
paraphrased:  "Thou  shalt  love  thy  hus- 
band with  all  thy  heart  and  shall  cleave 
unto  him  and  none  else."  The  words 
none  else  eliminate  everyone  and  every- 
thing. The  spouse  then  becomes  pre- 
eminent in  the  life  of  the  husband  or 
wife,  and  neither  social  life  nor  occu- 
pational life  nor  political  life  nor  any 
other  interest  nor  person  nor  thing  shall 
ever  take  precedence  over  the  compan- 
ion spouse.  We  sometimes  find  women 
who  absorb  and  hover  over  the  children 
at  the  expense  of  the  husband,  some- 
times even  estranging  them  from  him. 
The  Lord  says  to  them:  ".  .  .  Thou  shalt 
cleave  unto  him  and  none  else." 

Marriage  presupposes  total  allegiance 
and  total  fidelity.  Each  spouse  takes  the 
partner  with  the  understanding  that  he 
or  she  gives  self  totally  to  the  spouse: 
all  the  heart,  strength,  loyalty,  honor, 
and  affection  with  all  dignity.  Any 
divergence  is  sin — any  sharing  the  heart 
is  transgression.  As  we  should  have  "an 
eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God"  so  should 
we  have  an  eye,  an  ear,  a  heart  single 
to  the  marriage  and  the  spouse  and 
family. 

Modern  revelation  gives  us:  "Thou 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


58 

Saturday,  October  6 

shalt  not  commit  adultery;  and  he  that 
committeth  adultery,  and  repenteth  not, 
shall  be  cast  out  [or  excommunicated]." 
(Ibid.,  42:24.) 

Many  acknowledge  the  vice  of  physi- 
cal adultery,  but  still  rationalize  that 
anything  short  of  that  heinous  sin  may 
not  be  condemned  too  harshly;  however, 
the  Lord  has  said  many  times:  "Ye  have 
heard  that  it  was  said  by  them  of  old 
times,  Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery: 

"But  I  say  unto  you,  That  whosoever 
looketh  on  a  woman  to  lust  after  her 
hath  committed  adultery  with  her  in 
his  heart."  (Matt.  5:27-28.) 

And  to  paraphrase  and  give  the 
modern  version:  "And  she  that  looketh 
upon  a  man  to  lust  after  him  shall  deny 
the  faith,  and  shall  not  have  the  Spirit; 
and  if  she  repents  not  she  shall  be  cast 
out  [or  excommunicated]."  (See  D&C 
42:23.)  The  commands  of  the  Lord  apply 
to  women  with  equal  force  as  to  their 
husbands,  and  those  scriptures  come  with 
the  same  sharpness  and  exactness  to  both 
sexes,  for  he  has  but  a  single  standard  of 
morality.  It  is  not  always  the  man  who 
is  the  aggressor.  Often  it  is  the  pursuing, 
coveting  woman,  and  note  that  for  both, 
all  is  lost  if  there  is  not  true,  sustained, 
and  real  repentance. 

Home-breaking  is  sin,  and  any 
thought,  act,  or  association  which  will 
tend  to  destroy  another's  home  is  a 
grievous  transgression.  A  certain  young 
woman  was  single  and  was  therefore 
free  to  properly  seek  a  mate,  but  she 
gave  attention  to  and  received  attention 
from  a  married  man.  She  was  in  trans- 
gression. She  argued  that  his  marriage 
was  "already  on  the  rocks"  and  the  wife 
of  her  new  boy  friend  did  not  under- 
stand him  and  that  he  was  most  un- 
happy at  home,  and  he  did  not  love 
his  wife. 

Regardless  of  the  state  of  the  married 
man,  the  young  woman  was  in  serious 
error  to  comfort  him  and  listen  to  his 
disloyal  castigation  of  his  wife  and  to 
entertain  him.  The  man  was  in  deep 
sin.  He  was  disloyal  and  unfaithful. 
So  long  as  he  is  married  to  a  woman, 
he  is  duty  bound  to  protect  her  and 
defend  her  and  the  same  responsibility 
is  with  his  wife.  Numerous  cases  have 
come  to  us  such  as  the  following  one: 

A  husband  and  wife  were  quarreling 
and  had  reached  such  a  degree  of  in- 


Second  Day 

compatibility  that  they  had  flung  at 
each  other  the  threat  of  divorce  and  had 
already  seen  attorneys.  Both  of  them, 
embittered  at  each  other,  had  found 
companionship  with  other  parties.  This 
was  sin.  No  matter  how  bitter  were 
their  differences,  neither  had  any  right 
to  begin  courting  or  looking  about  for 
friends.  And  any  dating  or  such  asso- 
ciation by  wedded  folk  outside  the  mar- 
riage is  iniquitous.  Even  though  they 
proceeded  with  the  divorce  suit,  to  be 
moral  and  honorable  they  must  wait 
until  the  divorce  is  final  before  either  is 
justified  in  developing  new  romances. 

Recently,  I  learned  that  the  woman 
of  a  broken  marriage  was  married  within 
hours  after  her  divorce  was  final.  She 
had  been  untrue  to  her  marriage  vows, 
for  she  had  been  courting  while  she  was 
still  an  undivorced  wife. 

If  one  cannot  marry  before  the  divorce 
is  final,  then  it  must  be  obvious  that 
generally  one  is  still  married.  How  then, 
can  one  justify  courtship  while  he  or  she 
still  has  living,  an  undivorced  spouse? 
So  long  as  the  marriage  covenant  has 
not  been  legally  severed,  neither  spouse 
morally  may  seek  new  romance  or  open 
the  heart  to  other  people.  After  the 
divorce  becomes  final,  both  freed  indi- 
viduals may  engage  in  proper  courting 
activities. 

There  are  those  who  look  with  longing 
eyes,  who  want  and  desire  and  crave 
these  romantic  associations.  So  to  de- 
sire to  possess,  to  inordinately  want  and 
yearn  for  such,  is  to  covet,  and  the  Lord 
in  powerful  terms  condemns  it:  "And 
again,  I  command  thee  that  thou  shalt 
not  covet  thy  neighbor's  wife;  nor  seek 
thy  neighbor's  life."  (Ibid.,  19:25.) 

How  powerful  1  The  seventh  and  tenth 
commandments  are  interwoven  into  one 
great  command  which  is  awesome  in  its 
warning.  To  covet  that  which  belongs 
to  another  is  sin,  and  that  sin  begins 
when  hearts  begin  to  entertain  a  glamor- 
ous interest  in  anyone  else.  There  are 
many  tragedies  affecting  spouses,  chil- 
dren, and  loved  ones.  Even  though 
these  "affairs"  begin  near-innocently, 
like  an  octopus  the  tentacles  move 
gradually  to  strangle. 

When  dates  or  dinners  or  rides  or 
other  contacts  begin,  the  abyss  of  tragedy 
opens  wide  its  mouth.  And,  it  has 
reached  deep  iniquity  when  physical 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


59 


contacts  of  any  nature  have  been  in- 
dulged in.  Man's  desires  are  fed  and 
nurtured  by  the  food-thoughts,  be  they 
degenerate  or  holy. 

Amulek,  the  prophet,  reminded  us: 
"For  our  words  will  condemn  us,  yea, 
all  our  works  will  condemn  us;  we  shall 
not  be  found  spotless;  and  our  thoughts 
will  also  condemn  us;  and  in  this  awful 
state  we  shall  not  dare  to  look  up  to 
our  God;  and  we  would  fain  be  glad  if 
we  could  command  the  rocks  and  the 
mountains  to  fall  upon  us  to  hide  us 
from  his  presence."  (Alma  12:14.) 

The  case  of  Potiphar's  wife  is  an  exam- 
ple of  the  creeping  tentacles  of  sin. 
Even  though  this  scheming  woman  did 
not  succeed  in  defiling  Joseph,  her  sin 
was  most  grievous.  The  intent  was 
there  and  the  desire  and  the  lust  and 
the  coveting.  She  had  "already  com- 
mitted adultery  with  him  in  her  heart 
and  mind  .  .  ."  as  she  "cast  her  eyes 
upon  Joseph  day  by  day."  This  woman's 
transgression  did  not  begin  when  she 
ripped  the  clothes  from  the  body  of  this 
fleeing  stalwart.  Her  perfidy  had  been 
born  and  nurtured  in  her  mind  and 
heart  in  the  "day  by  day"  of  wanting 
him,  teasing  him,  desiring  him,  lusting 
for  him,  and  coveting  him.  Her  sin 
was  a  progressive  thing.  So,  for  all  the 
numerous  people,  who,  like  this  seduc- 
tive woman,  carry  in  their  hearts  and 
minds  designs  or  desires  or  covetings, 
deep  sin  lieth  already  at  their  doors. 

"For  as  he  thinketh  in  his  heart,  so  is 
he:  .  .  ."  (Prov.  23:7.)  Nothing  justi- 
fies evil.  Two  wrongs  do  not  make  one 
right.  Spouses  are  sometimes  incon- 
siderate, unkind,  and  difficult,  and  they 
must  share  the  blame  for  broken  homes, 
but  this  never  justifies  the  other  spouse's 
covetousness  and  unfaithfulness  and 
infidelity.  James  Allen  gives  us  this: 
"The  outer  world  of  circumstances 
shapes  itself  to  the  inner  world  of 
thoughts." 

Many  super-selfish  folk  think  only  of 
themselves  when  they  begin  to  cross  the 
lines  of  propriety  in  their  romanticizing 
outside  their  homes;  to  them  who  ignore 
the  innocent  parents,  the  innocent 
spouse,  and  the  innocent  children,  the 
scriptures  are  replete  with  warnings. 
".  .  .  I  must  do  according  to  the  strict 
commands  of  God,  and  tell  you  con- 
cerning your  wickedness  and  abomina- 


tions, in  the  presence  of  the  pure  in 
heart,  and  the  broken  heart,  and  under 
the  glance  of  the  piercing  eye  of  the 
Almighty  God."  (Jacob  2:10.) 

Little  do  most  of  those  who  deviate 
think  of  the  innocent  bystanders  until 
the  heaviness  of  final  guilt  weighs  down 
upon  them.  The  Lord  speaks  again: 
"For  behold,  I,  the  Lord,  have  seen  the 
sorrow,  and  heard  the  mourning  of  the 
daughters  of  my  people  .  .  .  because  of 
the  wickedness  and  abominations  of 
their  husbands."  {Ibid.,  2:31.) 

".  .  .  Ye  have  broken  the  hearts  of 
your  tender  wives,  and  lost  the  confi- 
dence of  your  children,  because  of  your 
bad  example  before  them;  and  the 
sobbings  of  their  hearts  ascend  up  to 
God  against  you  .  .  .  many  hearts  died, 
pierced  with  deep  wounds."  (Ibid.,  2:35.) 

And,  women  also  justify  themselves 
in  irregularities.  They  often  invite  men 
to  sensual  desire  by  their  immodest 
clothes,  loose  actions  and  mannerisms, 
their  coy  glances,  their  extreme  "make 
up,"  and  by  their  flattery.  Paul  also 
called  to  repentance.  "Wives,  submit 
yourselves  unto  your  own  husbands,  as 
unto  the  Lord. 

"For  the  husband  is  the  head  of  the 
wife,  even  as  Christ  is  head  of  the 
church:  .  .  . 

"Therefore  as  the  church  is  subject 
unto  Christ,  so  let  the  wives  be  unto 
their  own  husbands  in  everything." 
(Eph.  5:22-24.  Italics  added.) 

And  to  the  husbands  comes  the  com- 
mand: "Husbands,  love  your  wives,  even 
as  Christ  also  loved  the  church,  and 
gave  himself  for  it;  .  .  . 

"So  ought  men  to  love  their  wives  as 
their  own  bodies.  He  that  loveth  his 
wife  loveth  himself. 

"For  no  man  ever  yet  hated  his  own 
flesh;  but  nourisheth  and  cherisheth  it, 
even  as  the  Lord  the  church:  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  5:25,  28-29.) 

Some  who  marry  never  cut  them- 
selves loose  from  the  apron  strings  of 
the  parents.  The  Lord  says  through 
his  prophets:  "For  this  cause  shall  a 
man  [or  woman]  leave  his  father  and 
mother,  and  shall  be  joined  unto  his 
wife  [or  husband],  and  they  two  shall 
be  one  flesh."  (Ibid.,  5:31.  Italics  added.) 

Parents  who  hold,  direct,  and  dictate 
to  their  married  children  and  draw  them 
away  from  their  spouses  are  likely  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


60 

Saturday,  October  6 

regret  the  possible  tragedy.  Accordingly, 
when  two  people  marry,  the  spouse 
should  become  the  confidant,  the 
friend,  the  sharer  of  responsibility,  and 
they  two  become  independent.  No  one 
should  come  between  the  husband  and 
wife,  not  even  parents. 

Paul  concludes:  "Nevertheless  let 
every  one  of  you  in  particular  so  love 
his  wife  even  as  himself;  and  the  wife 
see  that  she  reverence  her  husband." 
(Ibid.,  5:33.) 

To  those  who  claim  their  love  is  dead, 
let  them  return  home  with  all  their 
loyalty,  fidelity,  honor,  cleanness,  and 
the  love  which  has  become  embers  will 
flare  up  with  scintillating  flame  again. 
If  love  wanes  or  dies,  it  is  often  infidelity 
of  thought  or  act  which  gave  the  lethal 
potion.  To  those  who  belittle  marriage 
and  its  vows  and  responsibilities,  to 
wives  and  husbands  who  joke  each  other 
about  possible  infidelities,  Paul  decries 
such  jesting  and  joking  about  sacred 
things.  "But  fornication,  and  all  un- 
cleanness,  and  covetousness,  let  it  not 
be  once  named  among  you,  as  becometh 
saints; 

"Neither  filthiness,  nor  foolish  talking, 
nor  jesting,  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  5:3-4.) 

To  jest  one's  spouse  about  "affairs" 
could  be  the  planting  of  seeds  which 
might  grow  to  destroy  the  marriage. 
Marriage  is  holy.  It  is  sacred.  Last 
week  in  Chicago  four  men  sitting  behind 
me  were  drinking.  They  were  joking 
about  their  wives'  boy  friends,  and  their 
own  girl  friends.  Whether  or  not  they 
were  adulterers  and  adulteresses  was  not 
known,  but  certainly  no  good  could 
come  from  such  foolish  jesting,  and  it  is 
an  unholy  way  to  speak  of  the  glorious 
relationship  of  marriage. 

May  we,  with  Jacob,  plead  to  the 
couples  of  the  world:  ".  .  .  arouse  the 
faculties  of  your  soul;  shake  yourselves 
that  ye  may  awake  from  the  slumber  of 
death;  and  loose  yourselves  from  the 
pains  of  hell  "  (Jacob  3:11.) 

".  .  .  ye  would  be  more  miserable  to 
dwell  with  a  holy  and  just  God,  under  a 
consciousness  of  your  filthiness  before 


Second  Day 

him,  than  ye  would  dwell  with  the 
damned  souls  in  hell. 

".  .  .  when  ye  shall  be  brought  to  see 
your  nakedness  before  God,  and  also  the 
glory  of  God,  and  the  holiness  of  Jesus 
Christ,  it  will  kindle  a  flame  of  un- 
quenchable fire  upon  you."  (Mormon 
9:4-5.) 

".  .  .  Save  yourselves  from  this  un- 
toward generation,  and  come  forth  out 
of  the  fire,  hating  even  the  garments 
spotted  with  the  flesh."  (D&C  36:6.) 
Those  who  have  slipped  into  the  ugly 
approaches  may  have  already  silenced 
the  still,  small,  pleading  voice  so  many 
times  that  he  hesitates  longer  to  return 
as  an  unwelcome  guest.  He  leaves  the 
iniquitous  one  "on  his  own." 

The  Lord  says:  ".  .  .  my  Spirit  shall 
not  always  strive  with  man,  saith  the 
Lord  of  Hosts."  (Ibid.,  1:33.) 

But,  forgiveness  may  come  to  that  per- 
son who  repents  with  all  his  heart, 
restores  all  that  can  be  restored,  and 
lives  the  commandments  fully  and 
constantly. 

In  conclusion,  I  plead  with  all  young 
people  bound  by  marriage  vows  and 
covenants  to  make  that  marriage  holy, 
keep  it  fresh,  express  affection  meaning- 
fully and  sincerely  and  often. 

Husbands,  come  home — body,  spirit, 
mind,  loyalties,  interests,  and  affections, 
and  love  your  companion  into  an  holy 
and  unbreakable  relationship. 

Wives,  come  home  with  all  your  in- 
terests, fidelity,  yearnings,  loyalties,  and 
affections,  and  working  together  make 
your  home  a  blessed  heaven.  Thus, 
would  you  greatly  please  your  Lord  and 
Master  and  guarantee  yourselves  happi- 
ness supreme. 

I  urge  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  has  just 
spoken  to  us,  a  member  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith, 
Presiding  Patriarch,  will  be  our  next 
speaker. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
while  I  take  this  time,  that  the  prayers 
that  have  been  offered  in  behalf  of  those 
who  take  this  time  will  be  answered 
in  my  behalf. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the 
way  to  salvation  and  exaltation  or  the 
way  to  perfection.  There  are  many  steps 
to  perfection.  Many  are  mentioned  by 
the  speakers  of  this  conference.  The 
fulfilling  of  the  ordinances  are  vitally 
important. 

There  is  another  thought  I  would 
like  to  refer  to  today.  There  are  many 
good  lessons  in  the  story  of  Job.  I  find 
one  I  would  like  to  refer  to  here  today. 
It  reveals  a  certain  principle  I  think  is 
vitally  important  and  helpful  to  many. 
"Now  there  was  a  day  when  the  sons 
of  God  came  to  present  themselves  be- 
fore the  Lord,  and  Satan  came  also 
among  them. 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  Satan, 
Whence  comest  thou?  Then  Satan  an- 
swered the  Lord,  and  said,  From  going 
to  and  fro  in  the  earth,  and  from  walk- 
ing up  and  down  in  it. 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  Satan,  Hast 
thou  considered  my  servant  Job,  that 
there  is  none  like  him  in  the  earth,  a 
perfect  and  an  upright  man,  one  that 
feareth  God,  and  escheweth  evil? 

"Then  Satan  answered  the  Lord,  and 
said,  Doth  Job  fear  God  for  nought? 

"Hast  not  thou  made  an  hedge  about 
him,  and  about  his  house,  and  about  all 
that  he  hath  on  every  side?  thou  hast 
blessed  the  work  of  his  hands,  and  his 
substance  is  increased  in  the  land. 

"But  put  forth  thine  hand  now,  and 
touch  all  that  he  hath,  and  he  will 
curse  thee  to  thy  face. 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  Satan, 
Behold,  all  that  he  hath  is  in  thy  power; 
only  upon  himself  put  not  forth  thine 
hand.  So  Satan  went  forth  from  the 
presence  of  the  Lord."  (Job  1:6-12.) 

As  a  result  of  this  Job  lost  all  his 
wealth  and  his  possessions.  Yet  Job  did 
not  curse  God.  He  remained  faithful 
and  true.  He  said,  ".  .  .  Naked  came 
I  out  of  my  mother's  womb,  and  naked 
shall  I  return  thither:  the  Lord  gave, 
and  the  Lord  hath  taken  away;  blessed 


be  the  name  of  the  Lord."  (Ibid.,  1:21.) 

"Again  there  was  a  day  when  the 
sons  of  God  came  to  present  themselves 
before  the  Lord,  and  Satan  came  also 
among  them  to  present  himself  before 
the  Lord. 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  Satan,  Hast 
thou  considered  my  servant  Job,  that 
there  is  none  like  him  in  the  earth,  a 
perfect  and  an  upright  man,  one  that 
feareth  God,  and  escheweth  evil?  and 
still  he  holdeth  fast  his  integrity,  al- 
though thou  movedst  me  against  him, 
to  destroy  him  without  cause."  (Ibid., 
2:1,  3.) 

Who  has  not  felt  at  one  time  or  an- 
other that  the  Lord  has  turned  against 
him  without  cause?  We  all  come  to 
the  occasion  at  times  I  think  when  we 
feel  as  if  all  has  been  turned  loose 
against  us.  We've  had  difficulties  and 
trials  and  sicknesses. 

Then  again,  "And  Satan  answered  the 
Lord,  and  said,  Skin  for  skin,  yea,  all 
that  a  man  hath  will  he  give  for  his 
life. 

"But  put  forth  thine  hand  now,  and 
touch  his  bone  and  his  flesh,  and  he 
will  curse  thee  to  thy  face. 

"And  the  Lord  said  unto  Satan,  Be- 
hold, he  is  in  thine  hand;  but  save  his 
life."  (Ibid.,  2:4-6.) 

In  other  words,  now  Satan  could  go 
forth  and  do  anything  he  wanted  to 
with  Job,  except  he  could  not  take  his 
life.  Again,  in  spite  of  all  the  physical 
torment  Job  was  subjected  to,  he  proved 
faithful,  declaring  his  testimony  to  the 
reality  of  the  resurrection.  He  declared 
the  immortal  words  of  testimony,  "For  I 
know  that  my  redeemer  liveth,  and 
that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter  day 
upon  the  earth: 

"And  though  after  my  skin  worms 
destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh  shall 
I  see  God:  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  19:25-26.) 

In  the  end  God  accepted  Job  and 
returned  to  him  many-fold  all  his  pos- 
sessions in  rich  abundance. 

Going  back  to  the  story  now  to  get 
the  principle  I  was  looking  for,  we  note 
that  Satan  had  power  to  do  only  what 
God  had  permitted  him  to  do.  Satan 
did  not  win  that  war  in  heaven.  He 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


62 

Saturday,  October  6 

was  cast  out  of  heaven  to  do  what  the 
Lord  wanted  him  to  do,  to  test  and  try 
and  torment  man.  Satan,  then,  has 
power  on  this  earth  only  as  the  Lord 
permits  and  as  we  yield  to  his 
temptations. 

Do  you  think  a  just  God  would  per- 
mit Satan  to  try  us  beyond  our  power 
to  resist?  Then  the  Lord  will  always 
give  us  power  to  resist  if  we  will  re- 
main true  and  faithful  to  the  end  and 
seek  the  Lord  and  his  guidance  in  all 
the  trials  and  difficulties,  even  though 
we  may  think  they  are  unjust.  Nearly 
all  of  us  go  through  some  experience 
in  this  life  of  sickness,  disease,  trouble, 
financial  difficulties,  many  even  born 
with  difficulties  and  handicaps — not  be- 
cause of  any  cause  on  their  part  as  we 
see  it,  but  because  that  is  the  part  that 
the  Lord  wants  us  to  go  through  as  a 
trial  and  temptation  to  see  if  we  will 
prove  faithful  to  the  end,  in  spite  of 
these  conditions,  which  are  as  far  as 
we  are  concerned  without  cause. 

Why,  then,  did  the  Lord  first  say  to 
Satan  "only  upon  himself  put  not  forth 
thine  hand."  The  Lord  knew  the 
strength  of  Job,  so  step  by  step  Job  was 
strengthened  and  given  more  power. 
Had  the  Lord  said  in  the  beginning,  "All 
right,  Lucifer,  you  may  have  full  power 
over  Job,  you  may  do  anything  you 
wish  with  him,  except  you  cannot  take 
his  life."  I  doubt  if  Job  would  have  had 
the  strength  to  resist  all  he  went 
through  and  still  remain  faithful.  But 
in  the  wisdom  of  the  Lord  he  was  just 
given  part  of  it  at  a  time.  By  so  doing 
he  was  strengthened,  in  the  first  step 
sufficiently  to  take  the  next  step.  And 
then  having  proved  faithful  to  the  end 
the  Lord  restored  to  him  his  blessings 
many-fold,  thus  having  become  in  that 
degree  perfect. 

No  one  is  exempt  from  the  trials  and 
temptations  of  Satan.  Even  the  Savior 
himself,  after  he  had  fasted  for  forty 
days,  physically  weakened  beyond  the 
strength  of  any  normal  mortal!  Then 
came  Satan  unto  the  Savior  trying  and 
tempting,  first  with  his  weakest  point 
at  the  time  of  hunger,  saying  ".  .  .  If 
thou  be  the  Son  of  God,  command  that 
these  stones  be  made  bread."  (Matt. 
4:3.)  The  test  of  the  appetite,  an  appeal 
for  relief  of  suffering  and  pain!  Then 
came  he  with  the  test  of  power  and 


Second  Day 

wealth.  The  Lord,  knowing  who  he 
was  and  having  strength  said,  "Get  thee 
hence,  Satan."  (Ibid.,  4:10.) 

If  the  Lord  and  Savior  was  not 
spared  of  the  trials  and  temptations  of 
Satan,  then  neither  are  we,  and  we  too 
must  prove  ourselves  in  everything  the 
Lord  wants  to  release  Satan  for,  to  test 
us,  to  try  us,  that  we  may  thereby  also 
become  perfect.  Remember,  however, 
that  the  Lord  will  always  give  us  power 
to  resist  any  temptation  which  comes 
upon  us  if  we  will  but  accept  the  guid- 
ance of  the  Lord  and  accept  his  inspira- 
tion and  call  upon  him  for  help.  Even 
though  at  times  we  may  yield  to 
temptation,  the  Lord  still  doesn't  close 
the  door  behind  us.  There  is  still  the 
door  of  repentance  open  and  a  way  to 
come  back.  The  Lord  is  so  merciful. 

For  us  to  become  perfect,  in  addition 
to  performing  the  ordinances  of  the 
gospel,  we  must  also  have  the  strength 
that  the  Lord  might  say  to  Satan  in 
reference  to  us,  or  in  reference  to  you, 
"All  right,  Lucifer,  you  may  have  full 
control  except  you  cannot  take  his  life." 
If  we  are  to  become  perfect,  we  must  be 
able  to  withstand  that  test  just  as  Job 
did,  somewhere  along  the  line  of  life. 
So  I  would  say  to  all,  be  patient,  be 
faithful,  call  upon  the  Lord  and  seek 
his  help,  and  he  will  not  withhold  his 
blessings  from  us.  In  the  end,  all  may 
stand  as  Job  and  declare,  "I  know  that 
God  lives,"  as  I  declare  that  God  lives 
and  answers  prayer,  that  he  rules  over 
his  people  here  on  the  earth.  He  is  truly 
our  Father  and  Ruler,  a  Kind  and  Lov- 
ing Father,  and  has  restored  to  us  in 
this  the  latter  day  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  whereby,  if  we  shall  accept  his 
gospel,  accept  of  him  and  accept  of 
the  ordinances  pertaining  thereto,  we 
may  again  return  to  him  exalted  in  his 
kingdom. 

I  wish  to  add  my  testimony  to  those 
that  have  been  borne  in  this  confer- 
ence, that  I  too  know  that  God  lives, 
and  that  he  answers  prayers,  and  that 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  re- 
stored in  this  the  last  dispensation 
through  his  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and 
that  our  present  prophet  and  president. 
David  O.  McKay,  is  likewise  a  prophet 
of  God,  directing  his  work  here  upon 
the  earth.  And  so  I  testify  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen, 


BISHOP  JOHN  H.  VANDENBERG 


63 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  The 
combined  choirs  and  the  congregation 
will  now  sing  "Praise  To  The  Man 
Who  Communed  With  Jehovah,"  con- 
ducted by  Professor  John  R.  Halliday. 

After  the  singing  Elder  John  H.  Van- 
denberg,  Presiding  Bishop  of  the 
Church,  will  speak  to  us. 


The  Combined  Choirs  and  the  con- 
gregation joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Praise  To  The  Man  Who  Com- 
muned With  Jehovah,"  John  R.  Halli- 
day conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church,  will  now  speak  to 
us  and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Theodore  M.  Burton. 


BISHOP  JOHN  H.  VANDENBERG 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  I  feel  a 
great  honor  and  responsibility  was  given 
me  a  year  ago  when  I  was  called  to  be 
the  Presiding  Bishop.  I  pray  humbly 
that  my  inadequacies  will  not  be  a 
hindrance  to  the  fulfilment  of  this  call- 
ing. I  muster  some  courage  as  I  think 
of  the  words  of  Francis  Bacon  when  he 
said,  "God  hangs  the  greatest  weights 
upon  the  smallest  wires." 

I  realize  that  many  others  have  had 
greater  weights  placed  upon  them.  In 
particular,  I  am  thinking  of  Joseph 
Smith  who,  as  a  boy,  ventured  into  the 
unknown,  searching  for  an  answer  to 
a  query  that  came  to  him  pertaining  to 
some  religious  matters.  In  his  inno- 
cence, he  could  not  have  known  what 
lay  before  him  as  he  sought  his  answer. 
He  said,  "While  I  was  laboring  under 
the  extreme  difficulties  caused  by  the 
contests  of  these  parties  of  religionists, 
I  was  one  day  reading  the  Epistle  of 
James,  first  chapter  and  fifth  verse,  which 
reads:  If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him 
ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liber- 
ally, and  uphraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be 
given  him."  (Joseph  Smith  2:11.) 

"So,  in  accordance  with  this,  my  de- 
termination to  ask  of  God,  I  retired  to 
the  woods  to  make  the  attempt.  ...  It 
was  the  first  time  in  my  life  that  I  had 
made  such  an  attempt,  for  amidst  all 
my  anxieties  I  had  never  as  yet  made 
the  attempt  to  pray  vocally. 

".  .  .  having  looked  around  me,  and 
finding  myself  alone,  I  kneeled  down 
and  began  to  offer  up  the  desire  of  my 
heart  to  God.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  2:14-15.) 

This  simple  action  of  the  faith  of  a 


youth  unfolded  great  truths  to  young 
Joseph.  It  was  a  reality  that  Satan  stood 
by  as  a  power  of  darkness  and  tried  to 
overpower  and  destroy  Joseph  Smith, 
and  he  might  have  succeeded  had  it  not 
been  that  God  heard  Joseph's  suppli- 
cation and  appeared  in  the  power  of  his 
light  to  dispel  the  evil. 

Joseph  said,  "...  I  saw  a  pillar  of 
light  exactly  over  my  head,  above  the 
brightness  of  the  sun,  .  .  . 

"It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found 
myself  delivered  from  the  enemy  .  .  . 
When  the  light  rested  upon  me  I  saw 
two  Personages,  whose  brightness  and 
glory  defy  all  description,  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them 
spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by  name  and 
said,  pointing  to  the  other— This  is  My 
Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!" 

And  in  answer  to  the  question, 
"Which  should  I  join?"  came  the 
reply,  ".  .  .  join  none  of  them,  for  they 
were  all  wrong;  .  .  .  'they  draw  near  to 
me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are 
far  from  me,  they  teach  for  doctrines 
the  commandments  of  men,  having  a 
form  of  godliness,  but  they  deny  the 
power  thereof.'"  (Ibid.,  2:16-17,  19.) 
And  Jesus  instructed  Joseph  that  further 
direction  would  come  to  him. 

This  is  the  testimony  of  a  young  lad 
on  whom  God  placed  the  "very  great 
weight"  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  To  the  noble  way  in 
which  he  carried  it  throughout  his  life, 
we  give  him  thanks,  honor,  praise,  and 
admiration.  Though  he  was  subjected 
to  ridicule  and  punishment,  his  testi- 
mony remained  steadfast  with  the  state- 


64 

Saturday,  October  6 

ment,  ".  .  .  For  I  had  seen  a  vision;  I 
knew  it,  and  I  knew  that  God  knew  it, 
and  I  could  not  deny  it,  .  .  ."  (Ibid., 
2:25.) 

Arthur  E.  Jensen  makes  this  signifi- 
cant statement,  "The  only  way  an  in- 
stitution .  .  .  can  grow  old  is  to  stay 
young  forever.  ...  Its  officers  must 
have  ears  trained  to  catch  the  sig- 
nals, .  .  ." 

That  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  growing  old,  while 
staying  young,  cannot  be  denied.  Its 
officers  and  leaders  "have  ears  trained 
to  catch  the  signals"  of  inspiration  as 
God  reveals  them. 

George  W.  Cornell  writes,  "Such  were 
the  humble,  ridiculed  beginnings,  135 
years  ago,  of  a  movement  that  today  has 
become  one  of  the  most  prosperous, 
diversified  and  fast  expanding  religious 
forces  in  the  world  .  .  .  that  it  should 
have  reached  its  present  stature  from 
its  most  unpromising  origin  is  a  mod- 
ern paradox." 

Some  may  wonder  why? 

The  answer  comes  that  this  is  not  a 
work  of  man — it  is  the  eternal  work  of 
God,  re-established  in  proper  order  and 
authority  in  this  last  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times. 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  ancient 
religious  record  of  the  inhabitants  of 
North  and  South  America,  translated 
by  the  gift  and  power  of  God  through 
Joseph  Smith,  is  an  explanation  to  the 
key  of  the  vigor  of  this  Church: 

"For  behold,  God  knowing  all  things, 
being  from  everlasting  to  everlasting, .  .  . 
sent  angels  to  minister  unto  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  .  .  . 

"And  God  also  declared  unto  proph- 
ets, by  his  own  mouth,  .  .  . 

"And  behold,  there  were  divers  ways 
that  he  did  manifest  things  unto  the 
children  of  men,  which  were  good;  and 
all  things  which  are  good  cometh  of 
Christ;  otherwise  men  were  fallen,  and 
there  could  no  good  thing  come  unto 
them."  (Moroni  7:22-24.) 

It  further  states:  ".  .  .  neither  have 
angels  ceased  to  minister  unto  the 
children  of  men.  . .  . 

"And  the  office  of  their  ministry  is 
to  call  men  unto  repentance,  and  to 
fulfil  and  to  do  the  work  of  the  cove- 
nants of  the  Father,  which  he  hath 
made  unto  the  children  of  men,  ...  by 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

declaring  the  word  of  Christ  unto  the 
chosen  vessels  of  the  Lord,  .  .  . 

"And  by  so  doing,  .  .  .  prepareth  the 
way  that  the  residue  of  men  may  have 
faith  in  Christ, .  . ."  (Ibid.,  7:29,  31-32.) 

Hereby  God  keeps  his  Church  eternally 
young  with  vigor  and  power.  He  sends 
his  ministering  angels;  he  reveals  his  will 
to  his  prophets;  and  by  divers  means 
manifests  truths  to  the  children  of  men. 

In  the  summer  of  1828,  the  Lord  re- 
vealed to  the  Prophet,  ".  .  .  Satan  doth 
stir  up  the  hearts  of  the  people  to  con- 
tention concerning  the  points  of  my 
doctrine;  and  in  these  things  they  do 
err,  for  they  do  wrest  the  scriptures  and 
do  not  understand  them. 

"Therefore,  I  will  unfold  unto  them 
this  great  mystery; 

"For,  behold,  I  will  gather  them  as  a 
hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her 
wings,  if  they  will  not  harden  their 
hearts; 

"Yea,  if  they  will  come,  they  may, 
and  partake  of  the  waters  of  life  freely. 

"Behold,  this  is  my  doctrine — whoso- 
ever repenteth  and  cometh  unto  me,  the 
same  is  my  church."  (D&C  10:63-67.) 

John  the  Baptist  commissioned  by  the 
Savior,  as  a  resurrected  being  and  an 
angel  of  God,  in  May  of  1829,  min- 
istered unto  two  of  God's  chosen  ves- 
sels, Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery, 
and  conferred  upon  them,  ".  .  .  the 
Priesthood  of  Aaron,  which  holds  the 
keys  of  the  ministering  of  angels,  and  of 
the  gospel  of  repentance,  and  of  baptism 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins; 
.  .  ."  (Ibid.,  13.) 

Here  was  the  restoration  of  the  au- 
thority to  put  into  effect  again  the  re- 
deeming principles  of  the  gospel. 

He  again  confirmed  the  validity  of 
the  forgiveness  of  wrongdoing.  ".  .  .  go, 
and  sin  no  more,"  was  his  decree.  (John 
8:11.)  This  we  must  understand. 

John  Locke,  the  English  philosopher, 
expresses  it  this  way,  "Repentance  is  a 
hearty  sorrow  for  our  past  misdeeds, 
and  a  sincere  resolution  and  endeavor, 
to  the  utmost  of  our  power,  to  conform 
all  our  actions  to  the  law  of  God.  It  does 
not  consist  in  one  single  act  of  sorrow, 
but  in  doing  works  meet  for  repentance, 
in  a  sincere  obedience  to  the  law  of 
Christ  for  the  remainder  of  our  lives." 

The  ability  to  receive  the  blessings  of 
repentance  lies  within  our  individual 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


65 


power.  It  is  a  never-ending  endeavor. 
There  is  no  restriction  to  those  who 
may  achieve:  All  may  partake  of  this 
gift  from  God. 

The  promise  of  Ezekiel  is  again  made 
alive,  "But  if  the  wicked  will  turn  from 
all  his  sins  that  he  hath  committed,  and 
keep  all  my  statutes,  and  do  that  which 
is  lawful  and  right,  he  shall  surely  live, 
he  shall  not  die."  (Ezek.  18:21.) 

The  avenue  of  repentance  is  a  thor- 
oughfare which  all  may  tread.  It  is  the 
path  to  peace. 

William  Jennings  Bryan  gave  us 
these  words,  "I  am  glad  that  our  Heav- 
enly Father  did  not  make  the  peace  of 
the  human  heart  to  depend  upon  our 
ability  to  buy  it  with  money,  secure  it 
in  society  or  win  it  at  the  polls,  for 
in  either  case  but  few  could  have  ob- 
tained it,  but  when  He  made  peace  the 
reward  of  a  conscience  void  of  offense 
toward  God  and  man,  He  put  it  within 
the  reach  of  all.    The  poor  can  secure 


it  as  easily  as  the  rich,  the  social  out- 
casts as  freely  as  the  leaders  of  society, 
and  the  humblest  citizen  equally  with 
those  who  wield  political  power." 
(From  The  Prince  of  Peace.) 

May  we  give  thanks  to  God  for  the 
great  gift  of  the  gospel  of  repentance, 
for  its  author,  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  for 
the  boy  Prophet  who  had  the  courage 
to  carry  the  great  weight  placed  upon 
him.  For  all  those  who  succeeded  him 
and  to  those  who  are  laboring  in  build- 
ing the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presid- 
ing Bishop  of  the  Church,  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  and  at  present  president  of 
the  European  Mission. 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  a  great 
pleasure  again  to  be  with  you,  and  to 
participate  in  that  which  has  taken  place 
this  day.  I  pledge  anew  my  loyalty  to 
the  First  Presidency  and  to  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve,  and  tell  you  that  I  know 
in  my  heart  these  men  are  called  of  God 
as  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators.  I  am 
grateful  for  their  leadership,  and  I  am 
grateful  for  my  associates  among  the 
General  Authorities.  These  are  won- 
derful men,  and  I  am  very,  very  grateful 
for  the  privilege  I  have  of  working  to- 
gether with  them. 

Last  Sunday  I  talked  by  telephone 
with  all  the  mission  presidents  in  the 
European  Mission  and  received  their 
reports.  I  am  happy  to  tell  you  that 
the  missionaries  are  well;  they  are 
happy;  they  are  enjoying  their  work; 
and  we  are  having  great  success  in  the 
European  Mission. 

Usually  in  summer  we  have  quite  a 
drop  in  converts  during  the  time  the 
Europeans  take  their  summer  holidays, 
for  they  take  them  very  seriously.  This 
year,  just  as  the  holidays  were  be- 
ginning, we  had  a  wonderful  visit  from 


President  [Henry  D.]  Moyle  and  from 
Elder  [Gordon]  Hinckley.  These  two 
wonderful  men,  devoting  themselves  to 
the  work  of  the  Lord,  came  over  to  help 
us.  I  just  can't  express  to  you  our  grati- 
tude for  the  help  they  gave  us.  As  a 
result  of  their  visit  our  August  conver- 
sions were  twenty-eight  percent  above 
our  conversions  for  July.  Our  Septem- 
ber conversions  were  thirty-seven  per- 
cent above  our  August  conversions. 

These  new  converts  are  good  people. 
They  are  excellent  people.  We  were 
instructed  to  emphasize  group  instruc- 
tion, and  we  were  told — in  fact,  these 
brethren  insisted — that  we  strive  for  true 
conversions.  We  are  only  interested  in 
those  people  whose  hearts  had  been 
broken  and  whose  spirits  are  contrite. 
These  are  the  people  who  have  come 
into  the  Church.  We  have  some  won- 
derful, strong,  new  converts. 

These  are  dedicated  converts,  rilling 
to  sacrifice  and  willing  to  work.  There 
was  nothing  new  in  what  these  brethren 
told  us.  We  can  summarize  it  in  just 
about  four  simple  statements,  but  they 
are  fundamental  principles;  for  instance, 


66 

Saturday,  October  6 

there  is  happiness  in  work,  and  we  all 
know  that.  There  is  joy  in  dedication, 
and  that  we  know,  too.  There  is  suc- 
cess in  spirituality,  and  achievement 
comes  only  through  sacrifice.  By  using 
these  magical  keys  we  have  had  our 
present  success,  and  things  look  very 
wonderful  for  the  future. 

This  success  is  represented  by  a  recent 
meeting  held  in  the  city  of  Berlin.  When 
President  EIRay  L.  Christiansen  came  to 
visit  the  temples,  President  Percy  K. 
Fetzer  wanted  to  hold  a  special  group 
meeting  in  Berlin  and  take  full  advan- 
tage of  that  wonderful  man  and  his 
ability  to  sway  and  move  people.  So  a 
special  evening  conference  session  for 
investigators  was  called.  Usually  people 
are  pretty  tired  after  they  have  been  in 
meetings  since  eight  o'clock  in  the 
morning.  However,  an  evening  meet- 
ing was  called,  and  the  people  who  came 
exceeded  their  wildest  expectations. 
There  were  687  people  in  that  investi- 
gator meeting  to  hear  the  testimonies 
that  were  given,  and  to  hear  the  won- 
derful address  that  Elder  Christiansen 
gave. 

From  that  meeting  we  had  460  good 
referrals  that  the  elders  in  Berlin  are 
working  on.  Is  it  any  wonder  that  the 
month  just  past  established  a  new  record 
in  the  number  of  conversions  in  the 
Berlin  Mission?  They  are  looking  for- 
ward to  the  future  with  great  enthusi- 
asm. The  missionaries  are  on  fire,  so  is 
the  mission  president,  and  I  am  walking 
up  in  the  clouds,  too. 

You  know,  there  is  no  blessing  with- 
out sacrifice,  but  it  isn't  a  sacrifice  unless 
it  hurts.  I  like  President  Tanner's 
definition  of  sacrifice.  "Sacrifice  means 
going  without  or  giving  up  something 
which  is  good  for  something  which  is 
better."  Now,  our  missionaries  are  will- 
ing to  make  such  sacrifice,  and  truly 
they  give  up  many  good  things.  They 
sacrifice  from  two  to  two  and  a  half 
years  of  their  lives.  They  put  aside 
schooling,  employment,  cars  and  sports, 
vacations,  and  dancing,  swimming  and 
friends,  families  and  sweethearts  for  a 
time,  to  work  harder  than  most  of  them 
have  ever  worked  before  in  their  whole 
lives. 

Why  do  they  do  it?  As  we  were  com- 
ing home,  we  talked  to  a  sweet  little 
girl  on  the  plane,  a  stewardess  of  Nor- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

wegian  birth.  We  talked  to  her  about 
our  religion  and  asked  her  the  Golden 
Questions  of  course.  She  said  that  she 
was  very  satisfied  with  her  present  re- 
ligion. She  said  that  she  was  a  member 
of  the  state  church,  and  so  I  con- 
gratulated her  on  her  activity.  I  said, 
"It  pleases  us  to  know  that  people  believe 
what  they  profess."  She  said,  "Oh  yes, 
I  am  very  active  in  our  church.  We 
attend  church  regularly." 

I  said,  "That  is  wonderful.  I  am 
happy  to  hear  that." 

"Yes,"  she  said,  "we  go  every  Christ- 
mas and  every  Easter." 

"I  am  happy  to  know  that,"  I  an- 
swered, and  she  went  on  to  say,  "My 
father  thinks  we  can  worship  God  in 
free  nature." 

I  said,  "Indeed  we  can,  too,  but  is 
that  what  Jesus  Christ  told  us  to  do?" 

"Well,"  she  said,  "I  don't  know." 
Then  I  told  her  about  the  sacrifices  that 
were  made  by  our  people  who  believed 
from  the  bottom  of  their  hearts  that  the 
work  they  were  doing  is  true,  and  I  said 
to  her,  "Would  you  give  up  your  present 
job  as  a  stewardess,  paying  your  own 
way  on  a  mission  for  two  or  two  and  a 
half  years  to  proclaim  the  divinity  of 
the  faith  that  you  profess?" 

She  shook  her  head.  I  said,  "Would 
you  make  such  sacrifices  as  our  people 
make?"  And  then  I  told  her  some  of 
the  things  done  in  our  Church  by  our 
people.  I  said,  "Would  you  willingly 
pay  ten  percent  of  your  income  to  back 
up  your  belief?  Would  you  fast 
monthly  and  give  a  fast  offering  the 
way  we  do  in  our  Church  as  a  demon- 
stration of  your  belief?" 

"No,"  she  said.  "I  am  amazed  at  the 
faithfulness  and  the  devotion  of  your 
people."  I  said  to  her,  "Then  why  do 
we  do  it?"  I  ask  you  that  question,  and 
I  ask  people  all  over  the  world  why  such 
things  are  done  in  this  Church.  Well, 
they  are  done  simply  because  people  are 
convinced  in  their  hearts  that  these 
things  are  true,  and  that  is  the  only 
reason,  just  as  Paul  said: 

"For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel 
of  Christ:  for  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation  to  every  one  that  believeth;  to 
the  Jew  first,  and  also  to  the  Greek." 
(Rom.  1:16.) 

Furthermore,  Christ  said,  beginning 
at  the  sixteenth  chapter  and  twenty- 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


67 


fourth  verse  of  Matthew:  ".  .  .  If  any 
man  will  come  after  me,  let  him  deny 
himself,  and  take  up  his  cross,  and  fol- 
low me. 

"For  whosoever  will  save  his  life 
shall  lose  it:  and  whosoever  will  lose 
his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it. 

"For  what  is  a  man  profited,  if  he 
shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his 
own  soul?  or  what  shall  a  man  give  in 
exchange  for  his  soul?"  (Matthew  16:24- 
26.) 

Truly,  these  young  Mormon  mission- 
aries are  obtaining  the  greatest  thing  in 
this  whole  life,  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  Jesus  Christ.  Do  you  wonder, 
then,  that  when  they  come  back  home 
at  the  close  of  their  missions  they  are 
strong  and  stalwart,  courageous  and 
unafraid,  and  that  they  fit  well  into  life 
again  to  take  up  their  positions  right- 
fully as  leaders?  We  have  had  timid 
young  girls  come  to  us  in  the  mission 
field  so  frightened  when  they  first  came, 
that  they  would  cry  when  you  would 
look  at  them.  When  they  get  through 
with  their  missions,  they  are  not  afraid 
of  anything.  They  are  full  of  courage 
and  determination,  willing  to  sacrifice 
because  of  the  testimony  which  is  within 
their  hearts. 

There  is  another  missionary  endeavor 
which  I  would  like  to  mention  just 
briefly.  It  is  not  well  understood  in  the 
Church,  for  it  is  too  new.  To  me  it 
represents  something  which  proves  defi- 
nitely that  this  Church  is  led  by  a 
prophet.  I  am  referring  to  a  new 
revolutionary  concept  which  we  call  our 
labor-missionary  or  better,  our  building 
missionary  program.  It  began  very 
quietly  in  the  far  reaches  of  the  Pacific 
Ocean  but  has  now  spread  to  all  parts 
of  the  world,  where  skilled  and  success- 
ful men  like  many  of  you  sitting  right 
here  today  have  responded  to  a  mission- 
ary call  to  serve  without  salary,  and 
have  taken  their  families  into  foreign 
lands  and  foreign  places  to  build  beauti- 
ful church  buildings.  We  are  having  so 
many  converts  come  into  the  Church 
that  it  is  all  we  can  do  to  provide  places 
for  them  to  worship.  Most  churches 
are  having  a  hard  time  to  get  congrega- 
tions. We  are  having  a  hard  time  to 
provide  meetinghouses  for  our  congre- 
gations to  meet  in. 

Think  of  the  sacrifice  that  this  re- 


quires, taking  a  family  with  you  into 
foreign  lands,  where  the  children  have 
their  schooling  partially  interrupted, 
living  under  difficult  conditions,  leaving 
business  connections,  devoting  them- 
selves to  the  faith.  Yet  I  have  never 
heard  one  of  them  complain,  nor  express 
any  regret  for  the  course  they  have 
taken.  They  are  converted,  and  they 
are  accomplishing  a  great  work. 

Young  people  can  come  into  the 
Church  now  and  almost  immediately 
respond  to  a  call  to  serve.  By  sacrific- 
ing they  become  strong,  capable  people. 
Let  me  just  give  you  a  couple  of  quick 
illustrations. 

One  young  man  in  southern  Germany 
came  into  the  Church.  He  had  only 
been  in  the  Church  a  very  short  while. 
He  was  a  printer  by  trade.  Some  of  the 
missionaries  talked  to  him  about  their 
farewells,  since  he  was  being  called  as  a 
building  missionary.  So,  being  a  printer, 
he  designed  and  printed  his  own  mission 
program  just  the  way  our  young  people 
have  their  programs  printed  here.  He 
went  to  his  father,  who  was  not  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church,  and  asked  him  if  he 
would  speak  on  his  farewell  program. 
His  father  said,  "Why,  no,  I  am  not 
going  to  have  anything  to  do  with  those 
Mormons."  The  boy  said,  "Father,  you 
can't  shame  me  before  my  people.  They 
expect  that  my  father  will  come  to  my 
farewell  program  and  say  something 
kind  about  me." 

Well,  the  father  was  put  in  a  delicate 
situation,  and  so  he  said,  "Well  I'll  do 
it."  He  went  to  the  farewell  very  un- 
willingly, but  when  he  came  to  the 
meeting  hall  and  saw  the  love  of  those 
people  for  his  son,  when  he  saw  how 
they  respected  him,  when  he  saw  what 
his  son  was  actually  going  to  do,  he 
understood  the  program  for  the  first 
time.  When  he  was  called  upon  to 
speak,  he  stood  up  in  the  meeting  and 
talked  himself  right  into  the  Church. 

We  had  a  little  widow  sister  in  Berlin 
whose  son  was  called  on  a  building  mis- 
sion. At  first  the  brethren  were  un- 
willing to  call  him  because  they  said  it 
would  mean  too  great  a  sacrifice.  When 
his  mother  heard  about  it,  she  said,  "I 
want  my  son  to  go  on  that  mission," 
and  he  went.  She  has  taken  a  job  to 
support  him  while  he  is  on  his  labor 
mission. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


68 

Saturday,  October  6 

Our  young  people,  even  our  new  con- 
verts, will  sacrifice,  because  of  the  strong 
testimony  they  have  of  the  truthfulness 
of  this  work.  Miracles  are  happening, 
therefore,  right  in  front  of  our  eyes,  for 
this  is  God's  work.  Like  the  builders  of 
Solomon's  temple,  these  young  men  and 
women  are  erecting  buildings  and  houses 
for  the  children  of  God  to  honor  and 
worship  the  Father.  They  are  building 
holy  houses  of  prayer  and  worship, 
beautiful  beyond  anything  we  used  to 
dream  of. 

And  what  does  this  do  to  the  people? 
Well,  you  see,  under  this  wonderful 
new  program  we  are  not  just  building 
buildings.  We  are  building  men  and 
women,  and  when  they  return  they  are 
going  to  be  instructed  in  the  Church, 
its  principles,  and  in  righteousness  and 
be  able  to  fill  any  position  we  ask  them 
to.  I  will  venture  to  say  that  in  years  to 
come,  as  we  begin  to  establish  more  and 
more  stakes  and  wards  in  foreign  areas, 


Second  Day 

that  those  building  missionaries  will  be 
some  of  those  who  will  show  the  neces- 
sary leadership  to  fill  such  positions  as 
bishops  and  high  councilmen  and  stake 
presidents  of  those  foreign  stakes. 

This  is  a  wonderful  work.  I  am  grate- 
ful to  be  part  of  it.  I  am  grateful  for 
prophets  to  lead  us,  for  faith  to  accom- 
plish these  modern  miracles,  but  all 
this  is  only  possible  because  of  the 
knowledge  in  the  hearts  of  the  people 
that  Jesus  is  indeed  the  Living  Christ. 
The  hearts  of  our  people  are  placed 
upon  the  altar,  a  living  testimony  to  the 
divinity  of  this  work.  This  testimony  I 
also  leave  with  you,  for  I  know  that  this 
work  is  true,  and  I  say  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner, 
whom  we  sustained  as  one  of  the  Twelve 
this  day,  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  meekness  and  sobriety,  and  with  a 
deep  feeling  of  humility  and  inadequacy, 
I  stand  before  you  today  in  response  to 
a  call  from  a  prophet  of  God  to  accept 
this  honor  and  responsibility.  Since  he 
spoke  to  me  I  have  slept  little,  but  I 
have  wept  and  prayed  much.  Because  I 
know  he  is  a  prophet  of  God — our  be- 
loved President  David  O.  McKay — of 
which  I  have  borne  testimony  many 
times,  I  feel  to  accept  this  great  call 
and  responsibility,  and  I  am  prepared 
to  dedicate  myself  and  all  that  I  have 
to  this  call.  I  shall  continue  to  pray 
for  the  spirit  and  blessings  of  the  Lord 
to  attend  me  that  I  might  have  the 
wisdom  and  knowledge,  the  courage  and 
strength,  the  desire  and  determination 
and  ability  to  show  my  appreciation  and 
prove  worthy  of  the  confidence  of  this, 
our  prophet,  these  chosen  men,  the 
General  Authorities,  and  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  who  raised  your  hands 
to  sustain  me  in  this  calling. 

I  thank  you  from  the  bottom  of  my 
heart,  and  as  your  humble  servant,  the 
weakest  of  all,  I  beseech  you  to  exer- 


cise your  faith  and  prayers  unitedly  in 
my  behalf,  that  I  might  serve  in  a  way 
that  will  be  acceptable  to  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

I  am  so  grateful  for  my  devoted  wife, 
for  her  love  and  affection,  and  that  she 
has  dedicated  herself  to  the  service  of 
our  Heavenly  Father,  and  who  will 
sustain  me  in  anything  that  I  am  called 
to  do  in  this  the  Church  and  kingdom 
of  God;  and  for  my  wonderful  family, 
who  too  have  accepted  the  call  and 
say,  ".  .  .  choose  you  this  day  whom  ye 
will  serve;  .  .  .  but  as  for  me  and  my 
house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord."  (Joshua 
24:15.) 

I  wish  also  to  express  my  appreciation 
to  these  great  leaders  for  the  support, 
the  help,  and  encouragement  they  have 
given  me  during  these  two  years  of 
association  with  them,  and  for  the  help 
they  have  given  me  in  years  past.  To 
see  the  devotion,  the  dedication,  and 
the  wisdom  of  these  men,  and  to  be 
associated  with  them,  is  a  privilege,  a 
pleasure,  and  a  blessing  that  one  cannot 
express. 

We   had   the   great   privilege  and 


ELDER  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


69 


pleasure  of  having  President  and  Sister 
Moyle  and  Brother  Hinckley  with  us 
two  months  ago,  and  to  see  how  dedi- 
cated they  are  to  this  work.  These  two 
men,  I  believe,  had  fourteen  consecutive 
meetings  in  fourteen  consecutive  days, 
in  fourteen  different  towns  in  four  or 
five  countries.  I  do  not  see  how  they 
stood  it,  but  if  anybody  ever  forgot 
himself  or  lost  himself  in  the  service, 
this  is  an  example  of  it.  And  I  was  so 
fortunate  to  have  the  opportunity  and 
privilege  of  being  with  President  McKay 
when  he  flew  to  Scotland  to  organize 
the  Glasgow  Stake.  To  see  him  at 
eighty-nine  years  of  age  leave  his  be- 
loved, devoted  wife,  of  whom  he  thinks 
so  much,  and  whose  health  would  not 
permit  her  to  accompany  him,  and  travel 
all  day  and  all  night  in  order  to  be 
there  to  organize  that  stake  in  that  great 
country,  the  land  of  his  progenitors,  is 
a  testimony  indeed.  It  was  a  great  bless- 
ing for  those  people  to  have  a  prophet 
of  God  in  their  midst. 

The  Scottish  Mission  was  organized 
just  eighteen  months  ago — with  a  mem- 
bership of  only  1,400  or  1,500  people — 
and  today  a  stake  is  organized  in  the 
Glasgow  area  where  there  were  only  400 
or  500  members  when  the  mission  was 
organized,  and  today  there  are  3,500 
members,  2,300  of  which  were  taken  into 
the  stake,  and  the  other  1,200  left  in  the 
mission.  Due  to  the  rapidity  with  which 
the  growth  has  taken  place,  it  was  neces- 
sary to  choose  several  men  who  have 
been  in  the  Church  just  a  few  months 
to  take  the  heavy  responsibility  of  being 
counselors  to  bishops  or  act  as  ward 
clerks. 

This  is  the  result  of  the  work  being 
done  by  those  devoted  missionaries,  your 
sons  and  daughters.  It  is  a  great  work 
that  they  are  doing.  It  is  not  easy.  It 
is  a  great  challenge,  and  I  appeal  to 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  all 
fathers  and  mothers,  wherever  they  may 
be,  to  realize  that  it  is  not  an  easy  thing 
for  these  young  men  to  leave,  as  Brother 
Burton  said,  everything  that  they  have 
and  go  out  and  devote  two  years  to  this 
missionary  work.  How  blessed  are  those 
boys  and  girls  who  have  come  from 
homes  where  the  parents  are  not 
ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ  be- 
cause they  know  it  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation  where  they  are  prepared 


and  trained  to  live  the  gospel  and  make 
it  a  part  of  their  lives  every  day,  and 
know  that  their  parents  have  a  testimony, 
and  that  they  are  prepared  to  accept  the 
call  of  our  prophet:  Every  member  a 
missionary,  realizing  that  this  is  the 
plan  of  life  and  salvation,  the  gospel 
of  peace! 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  if  every  mem- 
ber of  this  Church  would  accept  the  call 
of  our  prophet  today  and  live  the  gospel 
and  keep  the  commandments  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  become  mission- 
aries in  very  deed,  we  could  contribute 
more  to  the  cause  of  peace  than  all  the 
power  that  might  be  gathered  together 
by  all  the  governments  and  all  the  men 
in  uniform. 

This  is  our  privilege  and  our  call,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  hope  and 
pray  that  we  will  have  courage,  the 
desire  and  determination  to  accept  it 
and  live  so  that  when  anyone  knows  we 
are  members  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  he  can  say, 
as  the  Governor  of  Texas  said  at  one 
time  when  introducing  me  to  a  group 
of  oil  men  in  Dallas,  Texas:  "The  Gov- 
ernment is  fortunate  to  have  a  man  like 
Mr.  Tanner  in  the  Government."  And 
when  I  finished  speaking  he  said,  "I 
want  to  tell  you  why  I  said  that  'A  Gov- 
ernment is  fortunate  to  have  a  man  like 
Mr.  Tanner  in  the  Government.'  I  told 
you  that  Mr.  Tanner  was  a  bishop  in  the 
Mormon  Church.  And  I  want  to  say 
that  any  man  who  is  worthy  to  be  a 
bishop  in  that  Church  needs  no  other 
introduction  as  far  as  I  am  concerned." 

What  a  wonderful  thing  it  would  be 
if  that  could  be  said  of  every  man  who 
is  a  member  of  this  Church,  and  it 
should  be  thus.  I  want  to  bear  you  my 
testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives; 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  he  lives, 
though  he  gave  his  life  for  you  and  me; 
and  that  the  gospel  has  been  restored  in 
fulness  in  this,  the  last  dispensation; 
and  that  we  have  a  prophet  at  the  head 
of  our  Church  today  to  guide  us,  direct 
us,  encourage  us,  instruct  us. 

May  we  accept  this.  May  we  prove 
worthy  of  our  membership  in  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Combined  Choirs  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University  will  now  sing  "Out 
Of  The  Depths,"  soprano  solo  by  Brenda 
Morrison,  conducted  by  John  R.  Halli- 
day.  The  benediction  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Leo  A.  Crandall,  president  of 
the  Springville  Stake,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
seven  o'clock  this  evening,  when  the 
general  meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Church  will  be  held  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle. 

We  have  just  heard  as  the  concluding 
speaker  this  afternoon  Elder  Nathan 
Eldon  Tanner.  He  is  presently  serving 
as  president  of  the  West  European  Mis- 
sion, and  sustained  this  afternoon  to  fill 
a  vacancy  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  of  the  Church. 

Only  those  who  hold  the  Priesthood 
are  invited  to  be  present  at  this  evening's 
meeting  of  the  General  Priesthood.  Per- 
sons not  holding  the  Priesthood  will 
please  refrain  from  attempting  to  enter 
the  building.  The  Priesthood  session 
will  not  be  broadcast  publicly.  In  addi- 
tion to  the  overflow  meeting  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  the  proceedings  of  this 
Priesthood  meeting  will  be  relayed  by 
closed  circuit  wire  originating  in  the 
Tabernacle  to  members  of  the  Priest- 
hood assembled  in  338  locations  in  all 
parts  of  the  United  States,  including 
Alaska,  and  in  Canada.  It  is  estimated 
that  approximately  75,000  will  partici- 
pate in  this  meeting  by  direct  wire. 
This  does  not  include  those  in  the 
Tabernacle  or  in  the  Assembly  Hall. 

The  General  Sessions  tomorrow  will 
be  broadcast  as  a  public  service  over 
television  and  radio  stations  throughout 
the  United  States,  and  will  be  beamed 
by  short-wave  over  facilities  of  Station 
WRUL  of  Boston,  in  Spanish  to  the 
Caribbeans,  Mexico,  and  South  Amer- 
ica; and  in  English  to  countries  in 
Europe  and  Africa.  Through  this  cover- 
age Sunday  morning  we  expect  a  poten- 
tial listening  audience  of  77  million 
people. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Broadcast  will 


Second  Day 

be  from  8:35  to  9:00  a.m.  in  the  morn- 
ing. Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broad- 
cast must  be  in  their  seats  no  later 
than  8:15.  We  have  been  requested  to 
ask  that  those  attending  remain  quiet 
during  this  national  broadcast.  There 
will  be  large  crowds  attending  the  serv- 
ices of  Sunday,  and  we  ask  you  to  be 
considerate  and  courteous  one  to  another 
at  all  times,  in  driving  your  automobiles, 
and  in  standing  at  the  entrances  of  the 
Tabernacle.  Please  avoid  pushing  and 
crowding  if  over-anxious  to  obtain  seats 
in  the  Tabernacle. 

Brother  Brockbank,  where  are  you? 
We  will  call  you  tomorrow  morning. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Combined  Choirs  of 
the  Brigham  Young  University,  assisted 
by  the  Brass  Choir,  under  the  direction 
of  John  R.  Halliday,  with  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ.  We  wish  to  ex- 
press heartfelt  appreciation  to  these 
young  singers.  You  have  already  noticed 
that  they  have  filled  the  seats  usually 
occupied  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  and 
we  appreciate  their  response  to  render 
service  this  afternoon.  This  includes 
the  Brass  Choir  which  accompanied 
them.  The  beautiful  music  they  have 
given  us  this  afternoon  has  been  in- 
spiring. We  have  been  blessed  by  their 
presence,  and  we  pray  that  they  will  be 
blessed  by  having  put  forth  the  effort 
to  come  here  today.  We  also  express 
appreciation  to  their  conductor,  Brother 
Halliday.  Male  members  of  this  chorus 
will  be  with  us  tonight  again  in  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting. 

The  Combined  Choirs  of  Brigham 
Young  University  will  now  sing,  "Out 
Of  The  Depths,"  and  the  benediction 
wil  be  offered  by  Elder  Leo  A.  Crandall, 
president  of  the  Springville  Stake. 


The  Combined  Choirs  sang  the  selec- 
tion, "Out  Of  The  Depths,"  Brenda 
Morrison  soloist,  following  which  sing- 
ing the  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Leo  Alexander  Crandall  of  the 
Springville  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7:00  p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  October  6.  Only 
members  holding  the  Priesthood  were 
invited  to  attend  this  service.  The 
meeting  was  also  relayed  by  closed 
circuit  to  members  of  the  Priesthood 
gathered  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
338  other  Church  buildings  from  Coast 
to  Coast  and  in  Alaska  and  Canada. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  Male  Chorus  and  the 
Combined  Male  Sections  of  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  Choruses,  with 
Kurt  Weinzinger  conducting.  Frank  W. 
Asper  was  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  General  Priesthood  Ses- 
sion of  the  One  Hundred  Thirty-Second 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  You 
will  be  interested  to  know  that  these 
services  are  being  relayed  by  closed 
circuit  wire  to  members  of  the  Priest- 
hood gathered  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
in  338  other  Church  buildings  from 
coast  to  coast  and  in  Alaska  and  in 
Canada.  It  is  estimated  that  75,000  will 
participate  in  this  meeting  by  direct 
wire.  This  does  not  include  those  in 
this  building  nor  in  the  Assembly  Hall. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Male  Chorus  and 
the  combined  Male  Sections  of  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Choruses, 
with  Kurt  Weinzinger  as  director  and 


Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  We  shall 
begin  these  services  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Male  Choruses  sing- 
ing, "Almighty  God  Of  Our  Fathers," 
with  Kurt  Weinzinger  conducting.  After 
the  singing,  Elder  Franklin  R.  Walker, 
president  of  the  Uintah  Stake,  will  offer 
the  invocation. 

The  Male  Chorus  and  the  Combined 
Male  Sections  of  the  Brigham  Young 
University  Choruses  sang  "Almighty 
God  Of  Our  Fathers." 

Elder  Franklin  R.  Walker,  president 
of  the  Uintah  Stake,  offered  the  invoca- 
tion. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Franklin  R.  Walker,  president 
of  the  Uintah  Stake,  just  offered  the 
invocation.  The  Male  Choruses  from 
the  Brigham  Young  University  will  now 
sing  "Jesus,  My  Savior  True,"  directed 
by  Professor  Kurt  Weinzinger. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  the 
hymn,  "Jesus,  My  Savior  True." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  members  of  the  Correlation  Com- 
mittee of  the  Church,  consisting  of 
Elders  Harold  B.  Lee,  Chairman,  Marion 
G.  Romney,  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  will  present  a  re- 
port of  the  progress  of  their  work.  Elder 
Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  will  introduce  the  subject. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  seek  most  humbly  tonight  the  sus- 
taining power  of  your  faith  and  your 
prayers  to  the  end  that  what  we  may 
say  may  be  clear  and  concise  and  that 
you  might  glimpse  the  vision  of  the 
great  movement  which  was  initiated  a 
year  ago  at  the  October  conference  in 
1961. 


In  the  announcement  of  the  new  cor- 
relation program  as  directed  by  Presi- 
dent McKay,  we  used  as  our  text  a 
statement  from  the  great  modern-day 
revelation  on  church  government,  in 
which  the  Lord  said: 

"Behold,  this  is  the  way  that  mine 


72 

Saturday,  October  6 

apostles,  in  ancient  days,  built  up  my 
church  unto  me. 

"Therefore,  let  every  man  stand  in 
his  own  office,  and  labor  in  his  own 
calling;  and  let  not  the  head  say  unto 
the  feet  it  hath  no  need  of  the  feet; 
for  without  the  feet  how  shall  the  body 
be  able  to  stand? 

"Also  the  body  hath  need  of  every 
member,  that  all  may  be  edified  to- 
gether, that  the  system  may  be  kept 
perfect."  (D&C  84:108-110.) 

This  significant  statement  meant 
clearly  that,  first,  each  organization  was 
to  have  its  specific  function,  that  it  was 
not  to  usurp  the  field  of  the  other  which 
would  be  like  the  eye  saying  to  the 
hand,  "I  have  no  need  of  thee";  second, 
that  each  subdivision  is  of  equal  im- 
portance in  the  work  of  salvation,  just 
as  each  part  of  the  physical  body  is  es- 
sential to  the  complete  human  being; 
and  third,  that  every  member  in  the 
Church  may  be  edified  or  educated  to- 
gether; and  finally  that  the  system  may 
be  kept  perfect,  or  in  other  words,  that 
within  the  framework  of  the  Lord's 
plan  of  organization  for  the  salvation  of 
his  children,  the  Church  will  perform 
as  a  perfectly  organized  human  body 
with  every  member  functioning  as  it 
was  intended. 

The  key  to  the  whole  correlation 
movement  was  given  us  when  the  First 
Presidency  in  an  important  communica- 
tion some  years  ago  declared  the  funda- 
mental principles  on  which  we  were  to 
build.  In  this  communication  the  First 
Presidency  had  said: 

"The  home  is  the  basis  of  a  righteous 
life  and  no  other  instrumentality  can 
take  its  place  nor  fulfil  its  essential 
functions.    The  utmost  the  auxiliaries 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

can  do  is  to  aid  the  home  in  its  prob- 
lems, giving  special  aid  and  succor 
where  such  is  necessary;  that  in  aiding 
the  home,  the  auxiliaries  may  well  con- 
sider thinking  of  home  life  of  the  peo- 
ple as  having  three  periods:  the  first 
from  birth  to  twelve  years  of  age,  or  the 
childhood  period;  then  the  youth  period 
from  twelve  years  up  to  the  early 
twenties;  and  then  adulthood,  from  the 
early  twenties  to  the  end  of  life." 

Since  that  announcement  we  have 
gone  forward  with  the  development  of 
the  so-called  correlation  program,  and 
tonight  President  McKay  has  requested 
that  we  report  to  this  great  body  of  the 
priesthood  of  the  Church  the  correlation 
program  as  it  has  now  progressed  since 
that  first  announcement  one  year  ago. 

My  associates  of  the  twelve,  as  an- 
nounced by  President  McKay,  con- 
stituting the  correlation  committee,  will 
each  take  time  tonight  in  a  unified 
report  of  progress.  Elder  Gordon  B. 
Hinckley  will  first  discuss  the  organiza- 
tional development  which  has  gone 
forward  during  this  last  year.  Then 
Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  will  discuss  the 
curriculum  studies  and  development. 
Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  will  then  talk 
to  us  about  the  priesthood  correlation, 
which  is  in  reality,  an  extension  of  what 
we  have  known  as  ward  teaching  in  the 
past.  It  will  then  be  my  responsibility 
after  they  conclude,  to  summarize  with 
an  announcement  of  the  first  application 
of  the  new  correlation  program  to  be 
carried  out  throughout  the  entire 
Church,  beginning  in  January  of  1963 
on  a  Church-wide  basis.  We  will  now 
proceed  then  with  Elder  Hinckley,  then 
Elder  Evans,  and  then  Elder  Romney, 
after  which  I  will  make  a  few  con- 
cluding statements. 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren,  I  have  been  asked  to  give 
a  report  of  progress  on  the  organization 
of  the  co-ordinating  program. 

Brother  Lee  has  made  reference  to 
Paul's  analogy  to  the  Church  as  a  body 
whose  various  members  have  need  one 
for  another.  In  furtherance  of  that 
analogy  the  correlation  committee  and 


its  associated  subdivisions  might  be 
likened  to  the  nervous  system  whose  re- 
sponsibility is  to  keep  the  various  aspects 
of  the  great  teaching  program  of  the 
Church  operating  harmoniously  together. 

Fundamental  to  the  very  program  of 
the  Church  is  the  teaching  of  the  gospel 
to  the  membership  of  the  Church.  In 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


73 


fulfilment  of  the  obligation  which  was 
laid  upon  the  Church  in  its  inception, 
there  has  developed  within  the  Church 
a  system  of  great  teaching  organizations 
— the  priesthood  quorums,  both  Mel- 
chizedek  and  Aaronic,  the  far-flung 
church  school  system,  and  the  aux- 
iliaries: the  Relief  Society,  the  Sunday 
School,  the  Primary,  and  the  MIA,  all 
of  which  play  so  important  a  part  in  the 
education  of  our  people. 

If  it  were  possible,  I  would  like  to 
place  before  you  on  a  chart  the  organ- 
ization of  the  correlation  program,  but 
since  we  have  outside  the  Tabernacle 
where  only  our  voices  reach  eight  to  ten 
men  for  every  man  who  is  here  tonight, 
I  shall  have  to  present  the  mechanics 
of  the  organization  verbally.  (See  ac- 
companying chart.) 

I  should  like  you  to  picture  in  your 
mind's  eye  the  First  Presidency  at  the 
top  of  an  imagined  chart  and  below 
that  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  then 
beneath  that  is  a  subcommittee  of  the 
twelve  known  as  the  church  correlation 
committee,  comprised  of  four  members 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  who  have 
been  given  responsibility  for  this  work. 

Associated  with  the  correlation  com- 
mittee is  an  executive  secretary,  Brother 
Antone  K.  Romney.  Associated  with 
him  are  three  other  dedicated  men. 
They,  together  with  the  heads  of  the 
various  teaching  organizations,  con- 
stitute the  body  found  next,  below  the 
correlation  committee  on  the  chart  I  am 
trying  to  describe  for  you.  This  body  is 
known  as  the  all-church  co-ordinating 
council.  It  is  comprised  of  the  members 
of  the  correlation  committee  and  their 
associates  (Brother  Romney,  Brother 
Reed  Bradford,  Brother  Vaughn  Hansen, 
and  Brother  B.  West  Belnap),  the  Pre- 
siding Bishop  of  the  Church,  the  chan- 
cellor of  the  Church  School  System,  the 
general  superintendent  of  the  Deseret 
Sunday  School  Union,  the  president  of 
the  Relief  Society,  the  president  of  the 
Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association,  the  general  superintendent 
of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Association,  and  the  president  of 
the  Primary  Association,  together  with 
a  secretary. 

This  group,  representing  the  great 
teaching  organizations  of  the  Church, 
stand  together  as  the  all-church  co- 


ordinating council  to  bring  about  the 
harmony  of  which  Brother  Lee  spoke. 

Operating  under  the  direction  of  the 
all-church  co-ordinating  council  are 
three  groups  or  subdivisions  which 
constitute  what  we  have  come  to  de- 
scribe as  executive  planning  committees, 
one  for  children,  one  for  youth,  and  one 
for  adults.  One  of  the  twelve  serves 
as  chairman  of  each  of  these  committees, 
with  a  secretary  in  each — Brother  Belnap 
for  the  children's  committee,  Brother 
Hansen  for  the  youth  group,  and  Brother 
Bradford  for  the  adult  committee.  Asso- 
ciated on  each  of  these  committees  are 
men  and  women  of  great  ability,  exten- 
sive experience  in  the  Church,  and 
proven  devotion,  who  constitute  respec- 
tively, planning  organization  for  chil- 
dren, for  youth,  and  for  adults. 

Now,  working  with  each  of  these 
executive  planning  committees  are  three 
other  groups,  one  tied  to  each  of  the 
three.  These  are  task  committees,  chosen 
from  over  the  Church  because  of  their 
experience,  their  devotion,  and  their 
ability.  It  is  their  assignment,  and  I 
think  the  word  task  fits  the  assignment, 
to  review  carefully  the  entire  curricu- 
lum of  the  Church,  past  and  present,  to 
become  acquainted  with  all  courses  of 
study  and  activity  programs  used  now 
and  used  in  the  past.  This  is  a  tre- 
mendous undertaking.  This  study  will 
become  the  foundation  upon  which  will 
be  built  a  program  of  co-ordinated 
study  and  activity  for  the  entire  Church 
in  all  the  world,  including  all  age 
groups. 

I  hope  I  have  made  reasonably  clear 
the  mechanics  of  the  all-church  co- 
ordinating program  designed  to  further 
harmony  and  orderly  sequence  in  the 
teachings  and  activities  of  the  organiza- 
tions of  the  Church. 

Now,  let  me  quickly  review  it  as  we 
proceed  from  the  top — the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the 
correlation  committee,  the  all-church 
co-ordinating  council,  three  executive 
planning  committees  each  with  a  task 
committee  of  curriculum  study,  whose 
responsibility  it  is  to  dig  and  study  and 
conduct  research,  out  of  which  will 
come  co-ordinated  courses  of  study  and 
programs  of  activities  that  will  build 
testimony  in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter- 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

day  Saints  from  the  day  they  are  old 
enough  to  attend  classes. 

I  desire  in  conclusion  to  say  a  word 
of  appreciation  for  the  magnificent 
service  of  those  who  have  been  called 
to  serve  on  the  various  committees. 
Many  have  been  released  from  posi- 
tions of  great  priesthood  responsibility 
including  those  of  stake  president  and 
bishop;  men  and  women  have  been  re- 


Second  Day 

leased  from  general  boards  to  work 
quietly  in  the  background  to  bring 
about  this  great  work  of  correlation 
which  shall  bless  the  lives  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  throughout  the  earth. 

God  bless  them  in  their  labors  and 
bless  us  with  a  sense  of  appreciation 
for  their  devotion,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  and  my  beloved  breth- 
ren, it  would  be  difficult  to  say  in  words 
how  cherished  is  your  fellowship  in  the 
priesthood.  God  bless  you  all,  wher- 
ever you  are. 

You  who  have  visited  Seattle's  Cen- 
tury 21  Exposition  would  perhaps  have 
noticed  in  one  of  the  scientific  exhibits 
a  moving  meter  which  indicates  the 
present  population  of  the  world,  more 
than  three  billion,  two  hundred-eighty 
million,  as  I  recall,  with  the  clicking  of 
a  number,  every  second  or  so  it  seemed, 
as  each  additional  newcomer  arrives  from 
eternity  into  time.  It  is  a  sobering  sight 
to  see— more  than  3,280,000,000— all  of 
them  ultimately  our  responsibility,  and 
many  of  them  currently  being  added  to 
the  Church,  each  one  to  be  taught  (as 
well  as  all  else),  each  one  to  be  made 
to  understand  the  purpose  of  time  and 
life  and  eternity. 

It  is  a  sobering  and  a  wonderful  as- 
signment. With  the  Church  growing  as 
it  is,  ever  more  widely  over  the  world, 
it  becomes  apparent  that  it  must  more 
sharply  focus  its  purposes,  avoiding  dup- 
lications and  obvious  unessentials,  but 
doing  what  is  essential,  as  to  teaching 
and  training  and  activities  and  under- 
standing. We  have  an  obligation  to  see 
that  our  children,  our  youth,  and  all  of 
us — and  those  who  come  to  us  by  con- 
version— know  what  they  ought  to 
know.  And  it  cannot  be  haphazard. 
This  brings  us  to  the  question  of  the 
correlation  of  the  curriculum. 

Now,  these  dedicated  groups,  already 
referred  to,  who  have  been  working  so 
well  so  many  months — former  stake  and 
general  board  members,  members  of 
bishoprics  and  stake  presidencies,  pro- 


fessional educators,  and  others — have  ar- 
rived at  a  recommendation,  which  in 
principle  the  First  Presidency  has  ap- 
proved: that  the  gospel  be  taught  as 
completely  as  possible  at  least  three 
times  during  these  three  age  levels  of 
life:  children,  youth,  and  adults. 

Within  these  major  groupings  there 
will  be  many  minor  groupings,  taking 
into  account  school  associations,  social 
interests,  priesthood  ages,  missions,  mar- 
riage, and  other  factors. 

The  committees  at  work  gratefully 
know  that  they  are  not  beginning  from 
nothing  or  from  nowhere.  Gratefully 
they  know  that  they  already  have  going 
activities  and  organizations,  and  re- 
vealed truth,  and  the  priesthood  of  God, 
and  the  gospel,  and  the  greatest  organ- 
ization on  earth. 

They  know  also  that  from  decades 
and  generations  past  there  are  priceless 
study  courses  and  lesson  materials  al- 
ready written,  and,  as  reported  to  Presi- 
dent McKay,  and  as  I  feel  sure  he  has 
very  much  in  mind,  these  task  com- 
mittees are  reviewing  all  that  has  been 
written  and  used,  all  that  is  now  being 
used,  as  well  as  seeking  to  determine 
the  need  for  further  lesson  writing. 

There  is  no  presently  defined  limit  as 
to  how  much  we  can  enlarge  or  expand 
the  curriculum.  It  is  inclusive,  but  does 
not  exclude  the  possibility  of  adding 
anything  that  should  be  in  it.  In  gen- 
eral, it  is  proposed  to  preserve  the  tra- 
ditions, names,  influence,  experience, 
objectives,  and  activities  of  the  various 
organizations,  but  all  to  be  directed 
through  the  priesthood  and  co-ordinated 
not  only  at  the  level  of  the  General 
Authorities  and  general  boards,  but  co- 


ORGANIZATIONAL  CHART  ON  CORRELATION  PROGRAM  75 


76 

Saturday,  October  6 

ordinated  through  the  stake  presidencies 
in  the  stakes  and  through  the  bishoprics 
in  the  wards,  in  a  way  whereby  compe- 
tition and  inadvertent  duplication  will 
be  avoided,  and  in  such  a  way  that 
each  young  woman  and  each  young 
man  will  grow  up  with  an  opportunity 
to  know  what  he  needs  to  know,  and  to 
do  what  he  needs  to  do,  without  over- 
loading him  or  pulling  him  two  ways 
at  once. 

Brother  Lee  has  sometimes  cited 
Oscar  Kirkham,  who  said,  "One  Church, 
one  boy,  one  program."  May  we  give 
you  an  example  of  the  necessity  for 
correlation: 

Some  months  ago  when  the  latest 
missionary  lessons  were  introduced,  four 
organizations  of  the  Church  sincerely 
and  properly  desired  to  use  them  as 
lesson  material.  Had  each  organiza- 
tion done  what  it  desired  to  do,  some  of 
the  same  young  people  would  have  been 
taught  the  same  lessons  four  different 
times  in  the  same  season  by  four  differ- 
ent teachers  in  four  different  organiza- 
tions. You  see  we  can  get  too  much 
of  a  good  thing! 

The  curriculum  that  is  being  worked 
on  by  these  dedicated  committees  will 
not  only  prevent  such  duplication,  but 
will  assure  the  filling  in  of  some  areas 
that  have  been  too  thin.  It  appears 
that  there  may  have  been  thick  layers  in 
some  places,  and  great  gaps  in  others. 
This  is  not  a  curriculum  designed  to 
create  a  shallow  program,  but  one  dedi- 
cated to  cover  uniformly  deeper.  There 
will  no  doubt  be  some  changes  of  age 
groupings,  and  some  reallocation  of 
assignment,  but  the  contemplated  cur- 
riculum will  include  instruction,  activi- 
ties, and  all  proper  wholesome  interests 
on  a  broad  base,  having  in  mind  the 
spiritual  and  cultural  and  mental  and 
physical  and  social  aspects  of  man. 

The  basic  program  for  the  various  age 
groups  will  be  made  flexible  enough  to 
meet  the  varying  needs  and  circum- 
stances of  individuals  and  of  wards  and 
stakes  and  branches  and  missions  of 
different  sizes  and  circumstances. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

It  is  expected  that  the  meeting  sche- 
dule of  the  Church  will  be  simplified. 

As  Brother  Lee  has  indicated,  the 
home  and  family  will  be  considered  in 
all  programs  that  are  developed  for  in- 
dividuals or  age  groups. 

May  we  quote  from  the  minutes  of 
one  of  the  committee  meetings:  "We 
shall  teach  them  not  only  doctrine  and 
scripture,  but  also  such  things  as  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  chastity,  the  Ten 
Commandments,  the  Beatitudes,  rever- 
ence, good  citizenship,  good  manners, 
and  other  things  which  will  help  them 
to  become  wholesome  and  gracious 
Latter-day  Saints,  with  an  understand- 
ing of  the  basic  beliefs,  of  the  ordinances 
of  the  gospel,  prepared  for  missions,  for 
success  in  vocational  life,  in  marriage, 
and  in  church  and  civic  affairs." 

It  is  a  wonderfully  inclusive  cur- 
riculum. I  cannot  imagine  a  father 
who  would  not  be  interested  in  all  that 
pertains  to  his  children,  in  all  phases  of 
life,  and  our  Father  in  heaven  surely  is 
in  us.  An  eminent  thinker  of  our  time 
has  said  that  "the  Church  cannot  afford 
to  be  interested  in  less  than  God  is 
interested  in.  Religion  has  to  do  with 
everything." 

"When  you  get  the  function  of  the 
priesthood  fully  defined,"  Brother  Lee 
has  said,  "it  is  going  to  be  comparatively 
easy  for  us  to  define  where  the  MIA,  the 
Primary,  the  Sunday  School,  etc.,  fit  in. 
It  will  all  fit  into  place  with  the  program 
of  the  priesthood." 

With  it  becoming  more  and  more 
difficult  to  keep  the  balance  of  life,  to 
keep  the  spirit  of  prayer  and  spirituality 
in  public  places,  it  becomes  increasingly 
important  that  our  instruction  and  ac- 
tivity and  learning  and  lives  be  full  and 
effective  from  the  first  influence  of  a 
mother's  arms  to  the  latest  opportunity 
of  life. 

May  God  help  us  to  know  the  gospel, 
to  live  it,  to  teach  it  to  our  children,  and 
to  share  it  with  all  others,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  and  brethren:  As 
Brother  Lee  mentioned,  I  am  to  speak 
a  few  moments  about  the  proposed 
priesthood  correlation  program. 

Through  a  program  of  priesthood 
correlation,  we  bearers  of  the  priesthood 
must  increase  our  efforts  to  encourage, 
teach,  and  inspire  the  Saints  to  become 
"partakers  of  the  divine  nature,"  to  use 
Peter's  phrase,  through  obedience  to  the 
sanctifying  principles  of  the  gospel. 

We  are  performing  far  below  our  po- 
tential in  this  matter.  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  seems  to  have  visioned  the 
time  when  the  priesthood  would  do 
much  more  than  it  has  been  doing.  In 
his  opening  address  at  the  April  confer- 
ence of  1906,  he  said: 

"We  expect  to  see  the  day,  if  we  live 
long  enough  (and  if  some  of  us  do  not 
live  long  enough  to  see  it,  there  are 
others  who  will),  when  every  council 
of  the  priesthood  in  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  will 
understand  its  duty;  will  assume  its  own 
responsibility,  will  magnify  its  calling, 
and  fill  its  place  in  the  Church,  to  the 
uttermost,  according  to  the  intelligence 
and  ability  possessed  by  it.  When  that 
day  shall  come  there  will  not  be  so 
much  necessity  for  work  that  is  now 
being  done  by  the  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions, because  it  will  be  done  by  the 
regular  quorums  of  the  priesthood.  The 
Lord  designed  and  comprehended  it 
from  the  beginning,  and  he  has  made 
provision  in  the  Church  whereby  every 
need  may  be  met  and  satisfied  through 
the  regular  organizations  of  the  priest- 
hood. It  has  truly  been  said  that  the 
Church  is  perfectly  organized.  The  only 
trouble  is  that  these  organizations  are 
not  fully  alive  to  the  obligations  that 
rest  upon  them.  When  they  become 
thoroughly  awakened  to  the  require- 
ments made  of  them,  they  will  fulfil 
their  duties  more  faithfully,  and  the 
work  of  the  Lord  will  be  all  the  stronger 
and  more  powerful  and  influential  in 
the  world."  (Gospel  Doctrine,  pp.  159- 
160.) 

Now,  since  President  Smith  made  this 
statement  fifty-six  years  ago,  the  Church 


has  not  only  grown  in  numbers,  but  its 
programs  and  activities  have  multi- 
plied. Many  special  committees — priest- 
hood and  auxiliary — have  been  set  up 
and  assigned  particular  functions.  Many 
of  these  functions  are  rightfully  the  re- 
sponsibility of  the  priesthood.  Fellow- 
shiping,  for  example,  and  working  with 
inactive  members  of  the  priesthood,  both 
Aaronic  and  Melchizedek. 

With  a  view  to  correlating  some  of 
these  activities,  the  First  Presidency  in 
1960  asked  the  general  priesthood  com- 
mittee to  consider  the  problem  and 
bring  in  a  report  and  recommendations. 
Pursuant  to  this  assignment,  fourteen 
representative  stakes  were  selected  and 
since  then  have  been  experimenting  with 
programs  which  they  themselves  have 
developed  within  certain  prescribed 
guidelines.  The  brethren  have  been 
most  co-operative  and  creative  in  this 
work.  To  them  we  express  gratitude 
and  thanks.  The  results  have  been 
encouraging. 

Their  plans  and  developed  material 
are  now  in  the  hands  of  the  all-church 
co-ordinating  council.  It  is  anticipated 
that  a  program  will  be  perfected,  ap- 
proved, and  presented  at  stake  confer- 
ences to  each  stake  in  the  Church  during 
the  last  half  of  1963,  with  the  program 
to  go  into  operation  throughout  the 
Church  in  January  1964. 

Now,  priesthood  correlation,  as  we  are 
using  the  term  here,  contemplates  all 
that  is  now  being  done  in  ward  teach- 
ing and  much  more.  It  unites  under 
one  undertaking  many  activities.  It 
requires  that  attention  be  given  to 
every  member  of  every  family,  particu- 
larly to  those  who  need  special  encour- 
agement to  live  the  gospel.  It  means 
much  more  than  a  perfunctory  visit  once 
a  month.   It  includes: 

(1)  Periodic  visits  to  every  family  by 
two  priesthood  bearers; 

(2)  Laboring  with  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood bearers  to  build  spiritual  and 
temporal  "strength"; 

(3)  Laboring  with  inactive  and  over- 
age members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
under  21; 


78 

Saturday,  October  6 

(4)  Activating  and  bringing  into  full 
church  participation  senior  members  of 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  and  their 
families; 

(5)  Fellowshiping  and  bringing  into 
full  activity  recent  converts,  new  ar- 
rivals, and  all  inactive  church  members; 

(6)  Encouraging  all  parents  and  other 
family  heads  to  maintain  genuine  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  homes  in  which  are 
practised  and  taught  the  sanctifying 
principles  of  the  gospel.  It  aims  to 
bring  all  parents  to  a  realization  of 
President  McKay's  statement  that  "The 
character  of  the  child  is  formed  largely 
during  the  first  twelve  years  of  his  life. 
It  is  estimated,"  said  President  McKay, 
"that  in  that  period  the  child  spends 
sixteen  times  as  many  waking  hours  in 
the  home  as  in  school  and  more  than  a 
hundred  times  as  many  hours  in  the 
home  as  in  the  Church.  Every  child  is, 
to  a  great  degree,  what  he  is  because  of 
the  ever  constant  influence  of  home 
environment  and  the  careful  or  neglect- 
ful training  of  parents.  .  .  ." 

It  is  anticipated  that  priesthood 
correlation  will  include  ward  teaching, 
fellowshiping,  activating  inactive  bearers 
in  the  priesthood,  both  Melchizedek 
and  Aaronic. 

It  will  be  the  responsibility  of  the  two 
brethren  who  visit  homes  under  the 
priesthood  correlation  program  to  fa- 
miliarize themselves  with  the  spiritual 
status  of  each  member  in  every  family 
assigned  to  them.  It  will  be  their  re- 
sponsibility to  make  sure  that  infants 
are  blessed;  that  children  are  baptized 
at  eight  years  of  age;  that  boys  are 
worthy  and  qualified  to  be  ordained  to 
the  priesthood  at  12  years  of  age  and 
that  they  are  so  ordained;  that  they 
move  through  the  grades  of  the  priest- 
hood in  proper  order;  that  candidates 
for  marriage  are  properly  taught  the  im- 
portance and  sanctity  of  temple  marriage 
and  the  church  standards  which  will 
qualify  them  for  it,  to  the  end  that  they 
will  be  married  in  the  temple. 

It  will  be  the  responsibility  of  the 
two  visiting  brethren  to  know  the 
available  church  activities  for  each  fam- 
ily member  and  encourage  him  to  avail 
himself  of  them — such  activities,  for 
example,  as  Sacrament  meetings,  stake 
conferences,  and  other  ward  and  stake 
activities;  activities  provided  by  priest- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

hood  quorums,  auxiliary  organizations, 
the  church  educational  system;  gene- 
alogical and  temple  work,  and  so  forth. 

In  brief,  it  is  the  hope  that  through 
priesthood  correlation  the  responsibility 
which  the  Lord  placed  upon  the  elders, 
priests,  and  teachers  at  the  time  the 
Church  was  organized  will  be  dis- 
charged. You  will  remember  that  in  the 
revelation  recorded  in  the  20th  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  given 
in  1830  at  the  time  the  Church  was 
organized,  the  Lord  prescribed  the  duties 
of  the  elders,  priests,  teachers,  and  dea- 
cons. He  there  said,  ".  .  .  An  apostle 
is  an  elder,"  so  I  assume  that  the  re- 
sponsibility placed  upon  the  elder  is 
borne  by  every  member  of  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood.  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  must  have  been  of  the  same 
opinion  because  he  said: 

"Brother  Charles  W.  Penrose  is 
eighty-two  years  of  age.  I  am  going  on 
seventy-six  .  .  .  and  I  want  to  tell  .  .  . 
you  that  we  are  not  too  old  to  act  as 
teachers,  if  you  will  call  on  us  to  do  it, 
not  one  of  us.  .  .  .  So  long  as  life  lasts, 
and  so  long  as  we  possess  ability  to  do 
good,  to  labor  in  the  upbuilding  of  Zion 
for  the  benefit  of  the  human  family, 
we  ought,  with  willingness,  with  alacrity 
to  yield  to  the  requirements  made  of  us 
to  do  our  duty,  .  .  ."  (Gospel  Doctrine, 
p.  188.) 

By  some  it  has  been  thought  that 
some  of  the  directions  given  in  the 
revelation  referred  only  to  ordained 
teachers.  It  would  seem,  however,  that 
the  responsibility  has  been  placed  upon 
every  bearer  of  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood, and  the  priests  as  well  as  upon 
the  teachers.  For  in  the  revelation  the 
Lord  says  that  the  elder's  calling  is  ".  .  . 
to  teach,  expound,  exhort,  baptize,  and 
watch  over  the  church;  .  .  ."  That's  the 
responsibility  of  the  elder  (which  as 
above  explained  includes  all  bearers  of 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood).  Then  the 
Lord  says  that  it  is  the  priest's  duty  to 
help  him  in  certain  activities — not  the 
whole  scope  of  the  elder's  responsibility, 
but  he  says  it  is  the  priest's  duty  to 
".  .  .  visit  the  house  of  each  member, 
and  exhort  them  to  pray  vocally  and  in 
secret  and  attend  to  all  family  duties,  .  .  . 
And  he  is  to  take  the  lead  of  meetings 
when  there  is  no  elder  present;  .  .  ." 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


79 


And  then  he  repeats,  "And  visit  the 
house  of  each  member,  exhorting  them 
to  pray  vocally  and  in  secret  and  attend 
to  all  family  duties. 

"In  all  these  duties  the  priest  is  to 
assist  the  elder.  .  .  ." 

And  then  the  teacher's  duty  is  to  help 
also,  but  not  in  as  wide  a  scope  as  the 
priest,  but,  "The  teacher's  duty  is  to 
watch  over  the  church  always,  and  be 
with  and  strengthen  them; 

"And  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity  in 
the  church,  neither  hardness  with  each 
other,  neither  lying,  backbiting,  nor  evil 
speaking; 

"And  see  that  the  church  meet  to- 
gether often,  and  also  see  that  all  the 
members  do  their  duty."  (See  D&C 
20:38,  42,  47,  49,  51-55.) 

We  hope  to  develop  a  program  in  this 
priesthood  correlation  through  which  all 
these  responsibilities  will  be  discharged. 
When  we  have  seen  that  every  member 
of  the  Church  does  his  duty,  we  think 
we  will  be  able  to  stand  approved  be- 
fore the  Lord. 

This  is  a  tremendous  undertaking.  It 
will  take  training  of  teachers.  It  will 
take  a  new  determination.  It  will  mean 
that  every  priesthood  member  will  have 
to  be  a  man  of  courage.  Someone  has 
said  that  the  courageous  man  finds  a 
way  and  that  the  ordinary  man  finds  an 
excuse.   No  man  that  holds  the  priest- 


hood wants  to  be  just  an  ordinary  man. 

"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn 
his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in 
which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be 
counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that 
learns  not  his  duty  and  shows  himself 
not  approved  shall  not  be  counted 
worthy  to  stand. . . ."  (Ibid.,  107:99-100.) 

And  again: 

"Wherefore,  [says  the  Lord]  lift  up 
your  hearts  and  rejoice,  and  gird  up  your 
loins,  and  take  upon  you  my  whole 
armor,  that  ye  may  be  able  to  withstand 
the  evil  day,  having  done  all,  that  ye 
may  be  able  to  stand. 

"Stand,  therefore,  having  your  loins 
girt  about  with  truth,  having  on  the 
breastplate  of  righteousness,  and  your 
feet  shod  with  the  preparation  of  the 
gospel  of  peace,  which  I  have  sent  mine 
angels  to  commit  unto  you; 

"Taking  the  shield  of  faith  wherewith 
ye  shall  be  able  to  quench  all  the  fiery 
darts  of  the  wicked; 

"And  take  the  helmet  of  salvation,  and 
the  sword  of  my  Spirit,  which  I  will 
pour  out  upon  you,  and  my  word  which 
I  reveal  unto  you,  and  be  agreed  as 
touching  all  things  whatsoever  ye  ask 
of  me,  and  be  faithful  until  I  come,  and 
ye  shall  be  caught  up,  that  where  I  am 
ye  shall  be  also.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  27:15-18.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  as  I  now  come  to  an- 
nounce the  first  tangible  step  forward 
that  the  Church  will  see  on  a  church- 
wide  basis,  I  am  reminded  of  something 
you  said  when  you  came  to  the  first 
regional  meeting  of  the  church  welfare 
plan  held  in  1936  down  in  the  old  Pio- 
neer Stake  Hall  where  all  the  stake 
presidents  of  this  area  were  called  to- 
gether. You  sat  through  an  hour  or  two 
of  what  must  have  been  somewhat  of  a 
painful  discussion  of  the  details  of  be- 
ginning this  far-reaching  new  welfare 
movement.  You  asked  no  questions, 
you  made  no  comment,  but  at  the  con- 
clusion you  made  this  statement  in 
something  of  a  parable  which  I  should 


like  to  apply  tonight  to  this  correlation 
movement. 

"An  engineer  pulled  his  train  into  a 
station  one  dark  and  stormy  night,  and 
while  the  engineer  was  out  oiling  his 
engine  and  getting  ready  for  the  next 
run,  a  timid  passenger  left  his  place  in 
the  train  and  walked  up  to  the  engineer 
and  asked,  Aren't  you  afraid  to  pull 
your  train  out  into  the  dark  tonight, 
raining  and  storming  like  it  is?'  With- 
out looking  up,  the  engineer  replied,  'I 
am  not  pulling  my  engine  out  into  the 
dark  tonight.'  'Why,'  said  the  passenger, 
'it's  pitch  dark  outside  the  lights  of  the 
station.  I  should  think  that  with  the 
responsibility  of  these  four  or  five  hun- 
dred passengers  depending  upon  your 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


80 

Saturday,  October  6 

handling  of  the  train,  you  would  be  a 
nervous  wreck.' 

"For  an  answer  the  engineer  pointed 
up  to  the  bright  headlight  and  he  said, 
'Do  you  see  that  light  up  there?  That 
throws  out  an  intense  white  light  a 
thousand  yards  ahead  on  the  track. 
When  I  pull  out  of  the  station  tonight, 
I  will  be  running  my  engine  only  to  the 
first  circle  of  that  light,  a  thousand  yards 
away,  and  when  I  get  to  the  outer  circle 
of  that  light  it  will  still  be  out  another 
thousand  yards  in  front  of  me.  All 
through  this  dark  night  I  will  not  be 
running  in  one  foot  of  darkness  all 
the  way.' " 

Then  President  McKay  said,  "Now, 
brethren,  the  first  goal  of  this  welfare 
program  is  October  1936,  the  first 
harvest  time.  That  is  the  first  circle  of 
light.  And  when  we  get  to  October, 
the  light  will  be  out  ahead  of  us,  and 
I  can  promise  you  one  thing,  that  all 
through  this  night  of  uncertainty  when 
we  are  trying  to  establish  the  security  of 
our  people  in  a  temporal  way,  this 
Church  will  be  running  in  light  of  the 
revelations  that  come  from  God,  all  the 
way."  We  have  seen  that  prediction 
completely  fulfilled. 

The  first  light  that  the  Lord  gave  us 
as  to  how  we  should  instruct  his  Church 
in  all  matters  pertaining  to  his  kingdom 
was  given  in  that  same  revelation  from 
which  Elder  Romney  has  read.  It  per- 
tained to  the  holding  of  a  stake  quar- 
terly conference,  as  we  have  come  to 
know  it.    This  is  what  the  Lord  said: 

"Every  elder,  priest,  teacher,  or  deacon 
is  to  be  ordained  according  to  the  gifts 
and  callings  of  God  unto  him;  and  he 
is  to  be  ordained  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  which  is  in  the  one  who 
ordains  him." 

Then  he  added:  "The  several  elders 
composing  this  church  of  Christ  are  to 
meet  in  conference  once  in  three  months, 
or  from  time  to  time  as  said  conferences 
shall  direct  or  appoint;  .  .  ."  (D&C 
20:60-61.) 

That  assignment  to  hold  quarterly 
conferences  with  the  elders  of  the 
Church  was  followed  then  by  another 
pertinent  instruction  which  impressed 
the  need  for  the  constant  attendance  of 
teachers  that  were  to  come  from  the 
headquarters  of  the  Church  to  instruct, 
at  the  conferences,  the  elders  of  the 


Second  Day 

Church,  which  clearly  indicated  that  the 
Lord  intended  that  a  stake  quarterly 
conference  was  to  be  primarily  a  train- 
ing school  for  leaders,  as  well  as  the 
Church  membership  generally.  Note, 
now,  this  instruction  which  verifies  that 
conclusion: 

"It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  several 
churches,  composing  the  church  of 
Christ,  to  send  one  or  more  of  their 
teachers  to  attend  the  several  confer- 
ences held  by  the  elders  of  the  church." 
(Ibid.,  20:81.) 

Repeatedly  church  members  have 
asked  as  to  how,  with  the  rapid  growth 
of  the  Church,  the  General  Authorities 
could  continue  to  keep  contact  with 
and  to  properly  direct  the  work.  To  il- 
lustrate what  some  have  posed  as  a 
difficult  administrative  hurdle:  in  the 
twenty-one  years  since  I  became  a  mem- 
ber of  the  General  Authorities,  we  have 
increased  222  stakes  and  about  twenty 
missions  more  than  we  had  when  I  be- 
came a  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  This  means  that  when  multi- 
plied by  four  conferences  in  each  stake 
each  year,  that  we  are  now  having  just 
short  of  900  more  stake  conferences  to 
hold  generally  than  we  were  holding 
twenty-one  years  ago.  Hence,  the  ques- 
tion as  to  how  the  General  Authorities 
were  going  to  keep  contact  with  the 
stakes  of  the  Church  being  multiplied  at 
that  rate  and  likewise  keep  a  close  super- 
vision of  the  missions. 

In  a  revelation  to  President  John  Tay- 
lor the  Lord  answered  that  question,  and 
you  will  note  how  clearly  he  said  it: 

".  .  .  Let  not  your  hearts  be  troubled, 
neither  be  ye  concerned  about  the  man- 
agement and  organization  of  my  Church 
and  Priesthood  and  the  accomplishment 
of  my  work.  Fear  not  and  observe  my 
laws  and  I  will  reveal  unto  you,  from 
time  to  time,  through  the  channels  that 
I  have  appointed  ...  (I  want  you  to 
mark  that)  .  .  .  through  the  channels 
that  I  have  appointed,  everything  that 
shall  be  necessary  for  the  future  develop- 
ment and  perfection  of  my  Church,  for 
the  adjustment  and  the  rolling  forth  of 
my  kingdom,  and  for  the  building  up 
and  the  establishment  of  my  Zion,  for  ye 
are  my  Priesthood  and  I  am  your  God." 
(B.  fl.  Roberts  Seventy's  Course  of 
Theology,  vol.  1,  p.  10.) 

We  who  are  working  closely  together 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


81 


in  the  development  of  a  more  effective 
correlation  have  had  the  unmistakable 
evidence  of  divine  direction  through  the 
channels  by  which  the  Lord  told  Presi- 
dent John  Taylor  he  would  reveal  him- 
self and  the  development  and  the  rolling 
forth  of  the  work  of  the  Lord.  Now  to 
understand  what  we  mean  by  that  you 
have  but  to  kneel  with  President  McKay 
in  our  council  meetings  and  to  hear  him 
pray  with  a  fervor  that  thrills  every  man 
of  the  council  who  kneels  with  him, 
"Heavenly  Father,  keep  the  channel  of 
communication  open  between  thee  and 
us." 

The  relationship  of  the  expanding 
organization  and  development  of  the 
correlation  courses  of  study  of  the  aux- 
iliary organizations  as  explained  by 
Elder  Hinckley  and  Elder  Evans  have 
been  done  through  the  all-church  co- 
ordinating council  which  is  comprised 
of  the  heads  of  all  the  auxiliaries,  the 
Presiding  Bishop,  and  the  administrator 
of  the  church  school  system. 

We  have  now  gone  forward  as  the 
brethren  have  explained  in  consultation 
with  the  all-church  co-ordinating  coun- 
cil together  with  four  members  of  the 
twelve  and  executive  secretaries  which 
make  up  our  research  staff.  It  is  now  be- 
coming increasingly  clear  that  not  only 
the  "what"  to  teach  in  the  curricula 
of  the  Church  is  important  in  the  co- 
ordinating of  courses  of  study  and  the 
activity  programs  of  the  Church,  but  it 
is  just  as  important,  and,  in  fact,  going 
hand  in  hand  must  be  the  "how"  of 
leadership  training  in  stakes  and 
missions. 

Keeping  in  mind  what  the  Lord  has 
clearly  instructed  as  to  leadership  train- 
ing in  the  stake  conferences  every  three 
months,  the  light  of  spiritual  guidance 
as  to  the  next  steps  ahead  begins  to 
break  through. 

The  first  step  in  this  new  develop- 
ment came  last  spring  when  the 
Presidency  and  the  twelve  decided  that 
beginning  in  1963,  General  Authorities 
would  attend  only  two  of  the  stake  con- 
ferences annually  in  each  stake.  At  the 
same  time  President  McKay  warned  of 
the  importance  and  the  absolute  neces- 
sity of  the  General  Authorities  having 
the  conduct  for  all  stake  conferences 
under  their  close  supervision. 

From  the  first  announcement  of  the 


new  correlation  program,  there  has  been 
constant  inquiry  made  as  to  where  the 
general  auxiliary  boards  were  to  func- 
tion, and  always,  with  our  limited  view 
at  the  beginning,  we  answered,  "Well, 
when  we  get  to  that  problem,  the  answer 
will  come."  Now  the  answer  has  come. 
Beginning  with  1963,  alternating  with 
conferences  attended  by  the  General 
Authorities,  general  auxiliary  board  rep- 
resentatives will  be  assigned  by  the 
First  Presidency  to  attend  these  other 
two  stake  conferences  each  year. 

For  the  conferences  during  the  first 
half  of  the  year,  one  representative  from 
the  Relief  Society  and  one  from  the 
Primary  general  board  will  go  to  each 
stake  conference  as  assigned.  During 
the  last  half  of  the  year,  alternating  with 
quarterly  conferences  attended  by  the 
General  Authorities,  one  representative 
from  the  Sunday  School  and  one  from 
the  MIA  general  board  will  attend  the 
stake  conferences  as  assigned  by  the  First 
Presidency. 

The  general  plan  for  these  conferences 
attended  by  the  general  auxiliary  board 
representatives  as  is  now  being  formu- 
lated will  be  something  like  this:  These 
quarterly  conferences  attended  by  aux- 
iliary board  representatives  will  take  the 
place  of  what  have  been  called  the  an- 
nual conventions  heretofore  held  by 
each  general  board  in  each  stake  or  on 
a  regional  basis.  There  will  be  no  such 
annual  conventions  in  this  new  con- 
ference program.  Instead,  the  quarterly 
conference,  where  general  board  repre- 
sentatives attend,  will  take  the  place  of 
these  annual  auxiliary  conventions. 

The  emphasis  now  at  these  confer- 
ences attended  by  general  board  repre- 
sentatives will  be  on  leadership  training 
and  not  on  curricula  presentation.  The 
introduction  of  courses  of  study  and  the 
activities  for  the  coming  year  by  each 
auxiliary  will  be,  hereafter,  announced 
and  developed  at  the  annual  conferences 
held  by  each  auxiliary  at  church  head- 
quarters— June  conference  for  the  MIA, 
then  for  the  Primary,  Relief  Society,  and 
Sunday  School  conferences  on  schedules 
as  followed  in  the  past. 

Now,  to  give  you  some  idea  of  the 
suggested  schedule  that  will  be  followed 
at  these  stake  conferences  attended  by 
the  auxiliaries,  and  this  is  just  a  rough 
sketch  of  how  it  may  work: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


82 

Saturday,  October  6 

On  Saturday  morning  each  auxiliary 
representative,  beginning  probably  about 
9:00  o'clock,  will  begin  a  series  of  train- 
ing sessions  and  problem  discussions 
with  their  respective  organization  leaders 
separately,  and  they  will  carry  out  a 
predetermined  program  which  has  been 
worked  out  in  consultation  with  the  ad- 
visers to  each  auxiliary;  these  advisers, 
of  course,  being  made  up  of  members  of 
the  twelve  and  then  approved  by  the 
Presidency  and  the  Twelve.  Toward  the 
evening  and  probably  about  7:00  o'clock 
on  Saturday,  both  auxiliary  representa- 
tives will  then  meet  with  stake  and 
ward  priesthood  leaders,  the  stake  presi- 
dency, probably,  the  high  council,  and 
ward  bishoprics,  and  there  in  that  meet- 
ing these  two  auxiliary  representatives 
will  present  to  priesthood  leaders,  a 
predetermined  and  approved  program 
of  instruction  and  explanation.  This 
meeting  will  be  presided  over  by  the 
stake  president. 

On  Sunday,  at  both  general  sessions 
held  at  10:00  am  and  2:00  pm,  both 
auxiliary  representatives  will  attend  and 
will  participate  in  both  sessions  as  a 
team,  so  that  now  as  they  come  to  you 
instead  of  presenting  their  program  as 
separate  and  sometimes  unrelated  and 
uncorrelated  units,  they  will  come  to 
you,  for  example,  in  the  first  of  these 
conferences  in  1963,  the  Primary  rep- 
resenting the  children's  program  and 
the  Relief  Society  representing  the 
mother's  program.  How  much  more 
important  will  this  kind  of  teamwork 
so  presented  mean  to  the  church  mem- 
bership as  both  mother  and  child  pro- 
grams are  related  to  each  other. 

They  will  carry  out  a  program  and 
demonstrate  the  harmony  of  the  aux- 
iliary programs  as  they  relate  to  the 
priesthood  and  the  home.  This  kind 
of  meeting  with  the  whole  church  mem- 
bership in  the  general  sessions  will  give 
the  auxiliary  representatives  the  oppor- 
tunity to  meet  the  maximum  of  the  total 
stake  membership  and  to  impress  the 
essential  co-operation  between  the  aux- 
iliary organizations,  the  priesthood,  and 
the  home. 

While  both  auxiliary  representatives 
will  participate  in  both  sessions,  one  ses- 
sion might  feature,  for  example,  in  the 
case  of  the  Relief  Society  and  Primary, 
the  Singing  Mothers  who  could  be  as- 


Second  Day 

signed  the  music  at  one  session  and 
the  primary  children  singing  chorus  at 
the  other  session.  At  both  these  sessions 
the  stake  president  will  preside. 

At  the  other  stake  conferences  at- 
tended by  General  Authorities  during 
the  first  half  of  the  year,  the  missionary 
work  and  the  welfare  program  will  be 
stressed.  It  is  likely  that  representatives 
of  these  two  phases  of  the  work  may 
be  assigned  to  accompany  the  visiting 
General  Authority.  That  organization 
and  the  details  thereof  have  yet  to  be 
announced. 

At  the  conferences  during  the  last 
half  of  the  year,  attended  by  General 
Authorities,  the  priesthood  correlation 
or  the  enlargement  of  ward  teaching  as 
Elder  Romney  has  explained  it  and 
genealogical  and  temple  work  will  be 
stressed.  It  is  conceivable  that  a  pro- 
gram of  training  and  instruction  in 
genealogical  work  might  be  considered 
through  the  whole  of  Saturday,  just  as 
the  program  of  the  auxiliaries  will  be 
developed,  if  they  so  desire.  It  is  also 
likely  that  representatives  of  these  two 
phases  of  vital  church  programs  may  be 
assigned  to  accompany  the  visiting  Gen- 
eral Authority. 

Thus  you  see  that  every  phase  of  the 
Lord's  work  will  receive  attention,  with 
a  full  correlation  of  courses  of  study 
and  activities  and  with  stress  being 
placed  on  the  training  of  and  the  in- 
struction of  local  stake  and  ward  leaders. 

One  concluding  thought,  and  may  I 
say,  something  of  a  testimony — President 
McKay  sometime  ago  in  talking  to  the 
Presidency  and  the  twelve,  urged  us  to 
give  time  for  more  meditation  so  that 
we  could  tune  in  with  spiritual  forces 
that  we  had  a  right  to  and  should  expect 
to  direct  us  in  our  work.  He  said,  "The 
best  time  for  me  is  early  in  the  morning 
when  my  mind  and  body  are  rested. 
But  when  the  inspiration  comes,  and  it 
can  come  just  as  clearly  as  though  you 
were  taking  down  a  telephone  and  dial- 
ing in  for  information;  when  the  Lord 
tells  you  what  to  do,  you  have  to  have 
the  courage  to  do  what  he  instructs 
you." 

It  is  that,  President  McKay,  which 
has  been  one  of  the  most  humbling  ex- 
periences of  this  last  year.  Under  your 
assignment,  I  bear  humble  witness  to 
the  Church  I  have  sought  that  with  all 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


83 


the  faith  I  could  muster,  I  have  im- 
portuned the  Lord.  Sometimes  the 
startling  nature  of  my  assignment  has 
required  courage  almost  beyond  my 
strength.  I  come  to  you  tonight  sub- 
dued in  spirit,  I  come  to  you  with  a 
sincere  witness  that  the  Lord  is  revealing 
and  working  through  channels  that  he 
has  appointed.  Don't  you  ever  let  any- 
body tell  you,  the  membership  of  the 
Church,  that  the  Lord  is  not  today  re- 
vealing and  directing  and  developing 
plans  which  are  needed  to  concentrate 
the  entire  forces  of  this  Church  to  meet 
the  challenge  of  the  insidious  forces  at 
work  to  thwart  and  to  tear  down  and 
to  undermine  the  church  and  kingdom 
of  God. 

I  bear  you  my  solemn  witness  that  I 
know  that  God  is  directing  this  work 
today  and  revealing  his  mind  and  will. 
The  light  is  shining  through,  and  if  we 
can  get  the  priesthood  now  to  come 
alive  and  to  put  into  full  gear  the  full 
strength  of  the  priesthood,  we  shall  see 
some  of  the  most  wonderful  develop- 
ments and  some  of  the  greatest  things 
happen  to  the  forces  which  the  Lord 
can  set  in  motion  that  we  have  ever 
known  in  this  dispensation. 


God  help  us  and  help  me,  President 
McKay,  that  I  will  not  fail  in  the  as- 
signment which  you  have  given  to  me, 
and  may  we  all  be  so  close  to  the  veil 
that  forces  beyond  sight  can  be  near 
us  to  comfort  us,  to  guide  us,  and  when 
we  would  be  weak  and  almost  to  fall, 
that  we  might  not  fail  in  the  responsi- 
bility which  the  Lord  has  given  to  us,  I 
pray  and  bear  my  solemn  testimony, 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Kurt  Weinzinger  will  now  lead 
the  congregation  and  the  Male  Choruses 
in  singing,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 


The  Combined  Male  Choruses  and 
the  congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown  will  now 
address  the  audience. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  dear  brethren  of  the  priesthood,  both 
you  who  are  assembled  in  this  great 
auditorium  and  you  out  there  in  the 
various  chapels  and  meeting  places  of 
the  Church,  it  is  a  thrill  to  be  with  you 
and  to  be  aware  of  you,  to  be  associated 
with  you. 

I  am  sure  you  have  all  been  inspired 
and  challenged  by  the  presentation  that 
has  been  made  by  four  members  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  tonight  who  are 
laboring  under  the  direction  of  President 
McKay  in  formulating  a  program  for  the 
future  benefit  of  the  Church. 

You  will  have  noted,  as  I  did,  that  the 
great  emphasis  placed  by  each  of  these 
speakers  was  on  teaching. 

Some  years  ago  when  I  was  at  Brig- 
ham  Young  University,  an  educator,  a 
doctor  of  philosophy  from  another  state 
who  had  spent  a  week  on  the  campus 
as  a  visitor  and  part-time  instructor, 


was  sitting  next  to  me  at  a  banquet. 
Just  before  he  was  to  leave  he  said,  "I 
have  visited  many  campuses  in  my  life- 
time, and  I  have  seen  some  wonderful 
young  people,  but  I  wish  you  would 
tell  me  what  it  is  you  have  here  which 
seems  to  instill  in  your  young  people  a 
burning  desire  to  get  an  education.  I 
have  discovered  here  an  enthusiasm  for 
education  that  I  have  never  seen  before. 
In  fact,  it  seems  to  me  very  close  to  re- 
ligious zeal."  He  asked  me  to  explain  it. 

I  tried  to  do  so  by  saying,  "It  is 
religious  zeal  because  education  is  part 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  we  un- 
derstand and  proclaim  it.  We  believe 
that  a  man  is  saved  in  the  kingdom  of 
God  no  faster  than  he  gets  knowledge, 
that  he  cannot  be  saved  in  ignorance. 
We  believe  that  the  glory  of  God  is 
intelligence,  and  that  every  man's  glory 


84 

Saturday,  October  6 

will  be  determined  by  the  quality  and 
degree  of  his  intelligence." 

He  said,  "That  answers  my  question, 
and  I'm  glad  to  know  that  education  is 
a  part  of  your  religion." 

So  tonight  these  brethren  have  empha- 
sized the  importance  of  gaining  a  knowl- 
edge of  and  teaching  the  gospel.  Now, 
as  has  been  mentioned,  as  the  Church 
grows,  develops,  increases — and  it  is  in- 
creasing very  rapidly — we  need  more 
teachers,  better  organization,  and  more 
dedication. 

When  I  visited  the  Air  Force  Academy 
in  Colorado  Springs  sometime  ago,  I 
stood  before  a  monument  of  a  falcon 
with  spreading  wings.  At  the  base  of 
the  monument  I  read  these  words: 
"Man's  flight  through  life  is  sustained 
by  the  power  of  his  knowledge."  I  was 
much  impressed.  This  came  from  the 
academy  where  thousands  of  young  men 
are  preparing  for  flight  through  air  and 
possibly  through  space.  But  it  is  a  chal- 
lenging thought  to  all  of  us  that  our 
flight  through  life  will  be  sustained  by 
the  power  of  our  knowledge.  Then  if 
you  add  to  that  thought  the  LDS  con- 
cept that  man's  standing  before  God 
will  depend  upon  his  knowledge,  his 
education,  his  understanding  of  the 
gospel  of  Christ — in  short,  his  intelli- 
gence, you  will  see  the  wisdom  of  to- 
night's emphasis  on  education.  I  am 
wondering  whether  any  man  could 
possibly  be  happy  in  the  presence  of 
God  unless  he  himself  is  intelligent, 
for,  as  God's  glory  is  intelligence,  only 
to  the  degree  that  we  achieve  intelli- 
gence will  we  be  able  to  stand  his  glory. 

Recently  I  was  in  Alaska  and  visited 
the  base  of  the  interceptor  squadron 
where  many  of  our  men  are  on  twenty- 
four-hour-alert,  on  guard  for  all  of  us 
and  ready  to  defend  us.  I  saw  over  the 
door  of  the  alert  room  these  words: 
"Only  the  spirit  of  attack  borne  in  a 
brave  heart  will  bring  success  to  any 
fighter  aircraft  no  matter  how  highly 
developed  the  aircraft  may  be." 

"Only  the  spirit  of  attack  borne  in  a 
brave  heart  .  .  ." — of  course,  the  effi- 
ciency of  the  aircraft  is  important,  but 
unless  the  pilot  at  the  controls  has  the 
spirit  of  his  mission  and  the  courage  to 
carry  out  his  assignment,  it  matters  not 
how  efficient  his  craft,  he  will  be 
vulnerable. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

So,  brethren,  it  depends  upon  us 
individually  as  leaders — pilots  if  you 
will — how  successful  our  stakes,  wards, 
branches,  and  missions  will  be  in  build- 
ing the  kingdom.  The  individuals  who 
are  charged  with  the  responsibility  of 
leadership  must  first,  themselves,  become 
informed  in  these  various  departments 
to  which  reference  has  been  made,  and 
then  see  to  it  that  all  in  their  jurisdiction 
are  properly  instructed. 

President  John  Taylor  said  on  one 
occasion,  speaking  to  the  brethren  of  the 
priesthood:  "If  you  do  not  magnify  your 
callings,  God  will  hold  you  responsible 
for  those  you  might  have  saved,  had 
you  done  your  duty." 

This  is  a  challenging  statement.  If  I 
by  reason  of  sins  of  commission  or  omis- 
sion lose  what  I  might  have  had  in  the 
hereafter,  I  myself  must  suffer  and, 
doubtless,  my  loved  ones  with  me.  But 
if  I  fail  in  my  assignment  as  a  bishop, 
a  stake  president,  a  mission  president, 
or  one  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church — if  any  of  us  fail  to  teach,  lead, 
direct,  and  help  to  save  those  under  our 
direction  and  within  our  jurisdiction, 
then  the  Lord  will  hold  us  responsible  if 
they  are  lost  as  the  result  of  our  failure. 

I  read  again  the  other  day  from 
Matthew  what  Jesus  said  about  the  two 
sons  and  their  father: 

".  .  .  what  think  ye?"  said  the  Master. 
"A  certain  man  had  two  sons;  and  he 
came  to  the  first,  and  said,  Son,  go  work 
today  in  my  vineyard. 

"He  answered  and  said,  I  will  not: 
but  afterward  he  repented,  and  went. 

"And  he  came  to  the  second,  and  said 
likewise.  And  he  answered  and  said, 
I  go,  sir:  and  went  not." 

The  Savior  said,  "Whether  of  them 
twain  did  the  will  of  his  father?  They 
say  unto  him,  The  first.  Jesus  saith  unto 
them,  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  That  the 
publicans  and  the  harlots  go  into  the 
kingdom  of  God  before  you." — speaking 
undoubtedly  of  those  who  said  they 
would  go  and  did  not  do  it.  (See  Mat- 
thew 21:28-31.) 

This  is,  I  think,  one  of  the  greatest 
challenges  to  the  men  holding  the 
priesthood.  The  Lord  has  said  to  all 
of  us,  "Go  and  serve  in  my  vineyard," 
and  every  one  who  has  been  ordained 
to  the  priesthood  and  set  apart  for  his 
calling  has  said,  "I  go,"  but  some  go  not, 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


85 


and  others  weary  when  the  day  is  yet 
young. 

Our  challenge  tonight  then,  in  sup- 
port of  what  has  already  been  said,  is 
that  in  every  ward  and  stake,  mission 
and  branch,  in  every  part  of  the  Church, 
in  all  the  auxiliaries,  we  join  unitedly 
and  enthusiastically  to  make  the  labors 
of  these  brethren  and  those  associated 
with  them  successful  in  this  great  con- 
tinuing movement  for  instructing  and 
saving  the  members  of  the  Church.  We 
are  doing  a  lot  in  the  mission  fields,  but 
there  is  a  lot  to  be  done  here  at  home. 

Some  may  feel  that  in  some  far-off 
part  of  the  Church  there  is  not  much 
hope.  Sometimes  we  say,  "Well,  if  you 
could  send  us  a  General  Authority  more 
often,  we  would  be  more  inspired." 
The  Church  is  getting  too  big,  as 
Brother  Lee  has  explained,  for  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  to  attend  all  of  the 
conferences. 

I  am  reminded  of  what  happened  to 
a  captain  of  a  ship  down  in  the  South 
Atlantic.  He  had  run  out  of  fresh 
water.  His  crew  were  athirst.  Another 
ship  hove  in  sight,  and  he  signalled, 
"Send  us  water"  and  the  signal  came 
back,  "Let  down  your  buckets,  there  is 
fresh  water  all  around  you.  You  are  in 


the  Gulf  Stream."  They  let  down  their 
buckets  and  found  it  was  true.  They 
had  not  realized  that  the  course  of  the 
Gulf  Stream,  driven  out  into  the  briny 
deep,  had  maintained  its  virtues,  so  to 
speak.  They  were  able  to  save  them- 
selves by  that  which  was  all  around 
them,  yet  they  did  not  know  it. 

Brethren,  there  is  available  to  you 
wherever  you  are,  the  blessings,  the 
opportunities,  the  privileges  of  teaching 
the  gospel  of  Christ,  if  you  will  let  down 
your  bucket  into  the  Gulf  Stream  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  which  is  everywhere. 

God  help  us  to  do  our  duty,  to  be 
equal  to  our  task,  and  when  we  say, 
"I  go,"  let  us  be  true  to  the  promise  that 
is  implied  and  stay  until  the  end  of 
the  day,  that  when  the  time  shall  come 
that  we  shall  be  released  from  this  part 
of  our  labors  and  we  go  on  to  greater 
labors,  we  may  be  able  to  say  with  the 
Apostle  Paul,  "I  have  fought  a  good 
fight,  I  have  finished  my  course,  I  have 
kept  the  faith:"  (2  Tim.  4:7).  This  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle  will  now 
address  the  Priesthood. 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


At  our  April  conference  in  1960,  I 
called  attention  to  the  need  we  had  for 
missionaries,  that  we  would  like  at  least 
to  double  the  force  that  we  then  had. 
At  that  time  twenty-five  percent  of  our 
young  men  eligible  were  going  on  mis- 
sions— 6,000  of  them.  I  come  to  you 
tonight  with  my  heart  filled  with 
gratitude  to  express  to  you  the  deep 
appreciation  of  the  brethren  of  the  fact 
that  tonight  we  are  on  the  verge  of 
having  those  12,000  missionaries  in  the 
missionfields  throughout  the  world. 

We  are  realizing  approximately  fifty 
percent  of  our  potential  rather  than 
twenty-five  percent,  and  just  as  we 
needed  more  missionaries  in  April  of 
1960,  we  need  more  tonight.  We  had 
fifty  missions  at  that  time,  we  now  have 
seventy,  either  in  existence  or  in  imme- 
diate contemplation,  and  all  of  these 


missions  are  calling  for  young  men  and 
young  women  and  couples  to  go  out  and 
to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  peoples  of  the 
world  who  are  waiting  for  our  message. 

Recently  I  found  in  a  book  of  the 
seventeenth  century,  written  by  a  Sir 
Walter  Moyle,  who  may  or  may  not  be 
one  of  my  progenitors — I  think  in  light 
of  this  great  program  that  Brother  Lee 
and  the  brethren  have  presented  tonight, 
and  in  light  of  the  fact  that  the  work 
of  the  ministry  becomes  more  and  more 
intense  day  by  day,  and  if  we  fulfil  our 
callings,  we  shall  of  necessity  be  more 
and  more  diligent,  that  what  Mr.  Moyle 
said  has  a  present-day  application,  in 
spite  of  its  antiquity. 

He  writes:  "I  think  our  success  and 
salvation  depend  largely  on  how  well 
we  can  eliminate  idle  moments  from 
our  lives  and  dedicate  ourselves  to  hard 


86 

Saturday,  October  6 

work,  which  is  impossible  without  effort 
and  concentration." 

I  have  had  the  feeling  for  a  long  time 
that  we  are  unduly  influenced  by  fear. 
I  think  for  the  most  part  the  priesthood 
of  the  Church  believe  themselves  to  be 
courageous.  I  am  sure  that  we  have  not 
entirely  overcome  fear.  I  am  very  much 
impressed  with  the  statements  that  Elder 
John  A.  Widtsoe  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  made  at  an  annual  general  con- 
ference in  April  1942: 

"Fear  which  'shall  come  upon  every 
man,'  is  the  natural  consequence  of  a 
sense  of  weakness,  also  of  sin.  Fear  is 
a  chief  weapon  of  Satan  in  making  man- 
kind unhappy.  He  who  fears  loses 
strength  for  the  combat  of  life,  for  the 
fight  against  evil.  Therefore,  the  power 
of  evil  ever  seeks  to  engender  fear  in 
human  hearts.  In  this  day  of  sorrow, 
fear  walks  with  humanity.  It  directs, 
measurably,  the  course  of  every  battle. 
It  remains  as  a  gnawing  poison  in  the 
heart  of  victors  as  of  the  vanquished. 

"As  leaders  in  Israel,  we  must  seek  to 
dispel  fear  from  among  our  people.  A 
timid,  fearing  people  cannot  do  their 
work  well.  The  Latter-day  Saints  have 
a  divinely  assigned  world  mission  so 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

great  that  they  cannot  afford  to  dissipate 
their  strength  in  fear.  The  Lord  has 
repeatedly  warned  his  people  against 
fear.  Many  a  blessing  is  withheld  because 
of  our  fears.  He  has  expressly  declared 
that  men  cannot  stop  his  work  on  earth, 
therefore,  they  who  are  engaged  in  the 
Lord's  latter-day  cause,  and  who  fear, 
really  trust  man  more  than  God,  and 
thereby  are  robbed  of  their  power  to  serve. 

"The  key  to  the  conquest  of  fear  has 
been  given  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,"  Brother  Widtsoe  continues. 
"  'If  ye  are  prepared  ye  shall  not  fear.' " 
(D&C  38:30.)  That  is  a  message  from 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
Brother  Widtsoe  says  in  conclusion, 
"That  divine  message  needs  repeating 
today  in  every  stake  and  ward.  Are  we 
prepared  to  surrender  to  God's  com- 
mandments? ...  If  we  can  honestly 
answer  yes,  we  can  bid  fear  depart. 
And  the  degree  of  fear  in  our  hearts 
may  well  be  measured  by  our  prepara- 
tion by  righteous  living,  such  as  should 
characterize  Latter-day  Saints." 

God  bless  us  to  eliminate  fear  and  to 
meet  every  challenge  which  the  priest- 
hood of  God  places  upon  us,  I  pray  hum- 
bly, in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


While  Elder  Lee  and  the  other  members 
of  the  twelve  were  presenting  the  out- 
line of  the  great  correlation  work  now 
in  preparation,  a  passage  of  scripture 
came  to  my  mind,  which  I  shall  quote, 
if  I  can,  which  will  summarize  the 
purpose  of  all  this  work: 

"And  he  gave  some,  apostles;  and 
some,  prophets;  and  some,  evangelists; 
and  some,  pastors  and  teachers; 

"For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edify- 
ing of  the  body  of  Christ: 

"Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the 
measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fulness  of 
Christ:  .  .  ."  (Eph.  4:11-13.) 

That  is  what  these  brethren  have  in 
mind.  That  is  what  you  brethren  of  the 
priesthood,  assembled  in  these  vast  con- 
gregations tonight,  have  in  mind,  be- 
cause you  are  servants  of  the  Most  High, 
and  he  has  given  you  the  responsibility 


of  perfecting  the  Saints,  of  working  in 
the  ministry,  for  edifying  the  Saints  of 
God,  and  the  object  is  the  perfecting  of 
the  individual. 

There  are  many  who  are  working  to- 
night in  positions  who  are  sometimes 
discouraged.  They  may  be  in  a  bishop- 
ric, some  may  be  in  the  presidencies  of 
stakes,  some  may  be  in  the  presidencies 
of  quorums,  some  deacons  who  feel, 
"Well,  I  am  not  doing  anything." 
Teachers  who  are  asked  to  go  ward 
teaching  sometimes  feel  they  are  in- 
competent, inadequate  to  teach.  The 
plans  that  have  been  outlined  today  for 
you  will  be  an  aid  no  matter  what 
position  you  may  be  holding,  and  you 
who  feel  inadequate,  particularly  the 
young  boys  who  hold  the  office  of 
teacher,  when  you  go  into  the  home  of  a 
man  of  the  priesthood,  and  you  feel 
inadequate  to  do  your  duty,  remember 
this,  given  by  a  nonmember  of  the 
Church,  but  it  contains  encouragement: 


PRESIDENT  D, 

"Who  does  his  task  from  day  to  day 
And  meets  whatever  comes  his  way, 
Believing  God  has  willed  it  so, 
Has  found  real  greatness  here  below. 

"Who  guards  his  post,  no  matter  where, 
Believing  God  must  need  him  there, 
Although  but  lowly  toil  it  be, 
Has  risen  to  nobility. 

"For  great  and  low  there's  but  one  test: 
'Tis  that  each  man  shall  do  his  best. 
Who  works  with  all  the  strength  he  can 
Shall  never  die  in  debt  to  man." 

(Edgar  A.  Guest) 

God  bless  the  priesthood  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  throughout  the 
whole  world.  They  are  called  to  serve; 
to  serve  the  members  of  the  Church, 
and  to  serve  the  world  by  preaching  the 
everlasting  gospel.  May  the  Lord  guide  us, 
inspire  us,  never  leave  us  alone,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Kurt  Weinzinger  and  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  Male  Chorus, 
under  his  direction,  will  sing,  "Ye 
Watchers  And  Ye  Holy  Ones."  Elder 
Alton  Christensen,  president  of  the 
Sevier  Stake,  will  offer  the  benediction, 
after  which  this  Conference  will  be 
adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow. 

The  general  session  tomorrow  morning 
will  be  carried  "live"  by  eighteen  tele- 
vision stations  from  Denver  to  the  West 
Coast  from  the  Tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  commencing  at  10:00  A.M.,  Moun- 
tain Standard  Time.  Eighteen  radio 
stations  throughout  the  west  will  broad- 
cast the  Sunday  morning  session,  and 
three  radio  stations  will  carry  the  pro- 
gram "live"  to  the  eastern  part  of  the 
nation. 

You  will  be  interested  also  to  know 
that  the  Sunday  morning  session  will  be 


'ID  O.  McKAY  87 

beamed  by  short-wave  over  facilities  of 
Station  WRUL  of  Boston  in  Spanish  to 
the  Caribbean,  Mexico  and  South  Amer- 
ica, and  in  English  to  Europe  and 
Africa.  It  is  reported  that  we  shall 
have  a  potential  listening  audience 
during  this  Conference  of  seventy-seven 
million. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  will 
be  from  8:35  A.M.  to  9:00  A.M.  Those 
desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast  must 
be  in  their  seats  at  8:15  A.M.  It  is  re- 
quested that  the  audience  remain  quiet 
during  the  broadcast. 

As  thousands  leave  this  great  meeting 
tonight,  let  us  keep  in  mind  the  admoni- 
tion that  is  constantly  being  given  us  to 
drive  carefully.  Let  us  have  courtesy  in 
the  city  and  on  the  highways. 

The  Male  Choruses  will  now  sing, 
"Ye  Watchers  And  Ye  Holy  Ones," 
and  the  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Alton  Christensen,  president  of 
the  Sevier  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  Male  Choruses,  "Ye 
Watchers  And  Ye  Holy  Ones." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

I  am  sure  the  great  gathering  of  Priest- 
hood would  think  we  are  amiss  in  our 
duty  if  I  did  not  express  for  you  your 
hearty  appreciation  of  the  excellent 
singing  you  brethren  have  given  us  to- 
night and  also  this  afternoon.  We  ap- 
preciate your  staying  over  and  giving 
this  service.  God  bless  you  and  the 
girls  who  were  with  you  this  afternoon, 
also. 


The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
President  Alton  Christensen  of  the 
Sevier  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday 
morning,  Oct.  7,  at  10:00. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 


The  Semi-Annual  Conference  con- 
vened Sunday  morning,  October  7,  1962 
at  10:00,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

(The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
broadcast  was  presented  in  the  Taber- 
nacle from  8:35  to  9:00  a.m.  See  pages 
121  to  122  for  a  full  report  of  this 
broadcast.) 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  furnished  by  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction 
of  Richard  P.  Condie.  Frank  W.  Asper 
was  at  the  Organ. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  comments: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

To  all  present  this  morning  in  the 
Tabernacle,  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  the 
vast  television  and  radio  audience  whose 
attendance  at  this,  the  sixth  session  of 
the  132nd  Semi-Annual  General  Con- 
ference of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  we  extend  a  hearty 
welcome. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 


Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ,  will  open 
these  services  by  singing  "The  Spirit  Of 
God  Like  A  Fire  Is  Burning,"  after 
which  the  invocation  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  James  Austin  Cope,  Jr.,  president 
of  the  Palmyra  Stake. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"The  Spirit  Of  God  Like  A  Fire  Is 
Burning,"  following  which  the  opening 
prayer  was  offered  by  President  James 
Austin  Cope,  Jr.  of  the  Palmyra  Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"In  My  Father's  House  Are  Many  Man- 
sions." The  soloist  is  Brother  Albert 
Fallows. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "In  My  Father's 
House  Are  Many  Mansions." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will  be 
President  Henry  D.  Moyle,  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church. 


PRESIDENT  HE 

First  Counselor  in 

"For  the  time  is  come  that  judgment 
must  begin  at  the  house  of  God:  and  if 
it  first  begin  at  us,  what  shall  the  end  be 
of  them  that  obey  not  the  gospel  of 
God?"  (1  Peter  4:17.) 

Peter  thus  characterizes  the  church 
as  the  house  of  God  and  classifies  the 
occupants  of  his  house  as  those  who 
obey  the  gospel  of  God,  which  is  the 
gospel  of  Christ. 

In  this  prophetic  declaration  by  Peter 
there  is  no  ambiguity.  "Obey  the  gos- 
pel of  God"  must  be  our  ensign.  There 
is  no  other  real  approach  to  the  ful- 
filment of  life's  highest  purpose.  It  is 
satisfying  to  know  that  we  need  not 


[RY  D.  MOYLE 

le  First  Presidency 

wander  through  life  aimlessly  with  in- 
security, uncertainty;  finding  doubt, 
fear,  apprehension  on  every  side.  We 
have  a  certain  definite  plan  given  us. 
We  need  only  understand,  accept,  and 
obey.  We  are  then  at  once  at  peace  and 
can  make  ourselves  secure  in  the  house- 
hold of  God.  We  know  the  gospel  is 
".  .  .  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to 
every  one  that  believeth;  .  .  ."  as  Paul  so 
forceably  declared  to  the  Romans.  (See 
Rom.  1:16.) 

Now  the  first  principles  and  ord- 
inances of  the  gospel  are: 

First — Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Second — Repentance. 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


89 


Third — Baptism  by  immersion  for  the 
remission  of  sins. 

Fourth — Laying  on  of  hands  for  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

The  gospel  is  simple,  unambiguous, 
and  understandable  by  all  who  desire 
to  know.  It  is  natural,  reasonable,  and 
agreeable,  and  conducive  to  independ- 
ence, peace,  happiness,  and  security.  It 
is  appreciated  by  all  who  accept  and 
conform  their  lives  to  its  teaching.  Its 
rewards  to  the  faithful  are  numerous  and 
obvious.  Like  the  acquisition  of  any- 
thing worthwhile,  it  takes  desire  and 
consistent  effort.  It  is  different  from 
the  acquisition  of  earthly,  perishable 
things.  They  come  and  go.  Their 
enjoyment  is  temporary  and  superficial. 
The  benefits  and  blessings  of  faith  and 
obedience  are  everlasting.  The  products 
of  the  Spirit  are  priceless.  Indeed  with 
the  blessings  of  obedience  we  live 
closer  to  God  and  our  neighbor,  and 
appreciate  more  our  earthly  heritage  in 
every  way.  In  the  words  of  Peter  we 
are  told:  "Whereby  are  given  unto  us 
exceeding  great  and  precious  promises: 
that  by  these  ye  might  be  partakers  of 
the  divine  nature,  .  .  ."  (2  Peter  1:4.) 

Thus  our  obedience  to  the  gospel 
carries  its  own  reward  here  and  now. 
We  do  not  need  to  wait  with  expecta- 
tion or  anticipation  for  the  eternal 
blessings  awaiting  us  in  immortality  to 
justify  our  obedience  in  this  life  to  the 
principles  of  the  gospel.  We  can  be- 
come partakers  of  the  divine  nature 
progressively  from  the  beginning  of  our 
conversion  throughout  the  remainder 
of  our  faithful  lives.  The  Lord  never 
leaves  us  in  doubt  as  to  his  nearness  to 
us  so  long  as  we  adhere  to  the  faith. 
The  price  we  pay  by  lending  obedience 
to  the  laws  of  the  gospel  sinks  into  in- 
significance when  compared  with  our 
incomparable  receipts.  No  real  joy  ex- 
ceeds our  feelings  when  we  have  re- 
ceived and  thanked  God  for  his  heavenly 
blessings.  Jesus  said  to  the  rich  young 
ruler: 

".  .  .  If  thou  wilt  be  perfect,  go  and 
sell  that  thou  hast,  and  give  to  the  poor, 
and  thou  shalt  have  treasure  in  heaven: 
and  come  and  follow  me."  (Matt.  19:21.) 

Even  his  all  was  not  too  much. 

A  favorite  passage  of  scripture  to 
which  we  cling  and  oft  repeat  is  found 
in  John: 


"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent." 
(John  17:3.) 

As  we  disseminate  knowledge  of  God 
among  our  fellow  men,  we  accomplish 
the  high  purpose  ascribed  to  us  by 
modern  scripture. 

"For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — -to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

Our  work,  therefore,  is  to  promulgate 
knowledge  of  God  that  all  who  listen 
may  come  to  know  God  and  thereby 
put  themselves  in  the  way  of  immortal- 
ity and  eternal  life. 

As  we  truly  come  to  understand  God 
and  his  ways,  we  can  say  as  did  David 
of  old: 

"But  I  have  trusted  in  thy  mercy;  my 
heart  shall  rejoice  in  thy  salvation." 
(Psalm  13:5.) 

Our  work  is  cut  out  for  us  once  we 
accept  membership  in  God's  Church 
and  kingdom  and  obey  the  command- 
ments of  God.  We  become  conscious 
of  the  reality  and  the  actual  existence 
of  God — the  Holy  Ghost  becomes  our 
comforter  and  guide. 

Our  conversion  may  not  be  as  sudden 
as  that  of  the  eunuch  whom  Philip  was 
inspired  to  baptize: 

"And  as  they  went  on  their  way,  they 
came  unto  a  certain  water:  and  the 
eunuch  said,  See,  here  is  water;  what 
doth  hinder  me  to  be  baptized? 

"And  Philip  said,  If  thou  believest 
with  all  thine  heart,  thou  mayest.  And 
he  answered  and  said,  I  believe  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God. 

"And  he  commanded  the  chariot  to 
stand  still:  and  they  went  down  both 
into  the  water,  both  Philip  and  the 
eunuch;  and  he  baptized  him."  (Acts 
8:36-38.) 

Neither  need  our  conversion  be  as 
miraculous  as  was  Paul's.  Nonetheless 
each  person's  conversion  is  bound  to  be 
peculiarly  personal.  Every  investigator 
seeking  the  truth  in  his  own  way  can 
obtain  the  testimony  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  Finally, 
each  real  conversion,  no  matter  how 
wrought,  brings  to  all  the  same  testi- 
mony of  the  divine  mission  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior.  When  we  receive  this  testi- 
mony, we  can  all  proclaim  as  is  written 
of  Paul,  ".  .  .  straightway  he  preached 


90 

Sunday,  October  7 

Christ  in  the  synagogues,  that  he  is  the 
Son  of  God."  (Ibid.,  9:20.) 

This  is  the  pursuit  of  every  Mormon 
missionary  throughout  his  mission, 
wherever  in  the  world  he  may  be  sent. 
And  this  is  the  testimony  of  every 
convert  to  the  Church.  When  this 
knowledge  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  be- 
comes ours,  we  desire  to  give  others  the 
opportunity  which  has  come  to  us  to 
gain  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

It  is  not  only  easy,  but  natural  for 
every  member  of  the  Church,  with  the 
inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  be  a 
missionary.  In  1829  the  Lord  declared 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

"Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is 
about  to  come  forth  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men. 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the 
service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and 
strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless 
before  God  at  the  last  day."  (D&C 
4:1-2.) 

We  embark  in  the  service  of  God 
through  faith,  repentance,  baptism,  and 
the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost — every 
member  of  the  Church  becomes  a 
member  of  the  household  of  God 
through  his  faith  and  faithfulness. 

We  are  told  on  all  sides  today  that 
we  need  only  confess  that  "Jesus  is  the 
Christ"  to  be  saved.  But  we  must  know 
Christ  to  become  part  of  his  household 
and  prepare  for  the  day  of  judgment, 
which  will  start  at  his  house.  Members 
of  a  household  generally  know  the 
master  of  the  house.  We  cannot  know 
God  or  be  saved  by  grace  alone.  The 
grace  of  God  is  all-important  to  our 
redemption  from  sin.  His  atoning  sac- 
rifice is  the  very  foundation  of  our  sal- 
vation, both  from  the  effects  of  the  fall 
of  Adam  as  well  as  from  our  personal 
transgressions.  It  is  by  virtue  of  his  life 
and  suffering  and  crucifixion  and  resur- 
rection that  we  become  the  beneficiaries 
of  his  atoning  sacrifice.  He  performed 
for  us  a  task  we  could  not  do  for  our- 
selves. All  mankind  are  thereby  as- 
sured of  their  resurrection  from  the 
dead. 

Our  resurrection  brings  us  to  the 
judgment  bar  of  God.  There  John  the 
Revelator  tells  us: 

"And  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and  great, 
stand  before  God;  and  the  books  were 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Thin  Day 

opened:  and  another  book  was  opened, 
which  is  the  book  of  life:  and  the  dead 
were  judged  out  of  those  things  which 
were  written  in  the  books,  according 
to  their  works."  (Rev.  20:12.) 

The  gospel  plan,  when  followed, 
brings  us  a  remission  of  our  sins  in 
mortality.  We  must  act  for  ourselves 
and  can  depend  or  rely  on  no  one 
else  to  be  absolved  from  our  own 
transgressions. 

The  answer  Peter  gave  the  multitude 
on  the  day  of  Pentecost  is  our  answer 
to  the  world  today. 

"Therefore  let  all  the  house  of  Israel 
know  assuredly,  that  God  hath  made 
that  same  Jesus,  whom  ye  have  cruci- 
fied, both  Lord  and  Christ. 

"Now  when  they  heard  this,  they 
were  pricked  in  their  heart,  and  said 
unto  Peter  and  to  the  rest  of  the  apos- 
tles, Men  and  brethren,  what  shall 
we  do? 

"Then  Peter  said  unto  them,  Repent, 
and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission 
of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost."  (Acts  2:36-38.) 

How  instructive  in  this  respect  are 
the  words  of  Paul: 

"But  without  faith  it  is  impossible 
to  please  him:  for  he  that  cometh  to 
God  must  believe  that  he  is,  and  that 
he  is  a  rewarder  of  them  that  diligently 
seek  him."  (Heb.  11:6.) 

We  should  now  know  what  to  do.  It 
is  upon  the  remission  of  sins  through 
baptism  that  we  gain  our  exaltation  in 
our  Father's  mansions.  We  know  how 
to  prepare  for  the  day  of  judgment  of 
which  Peter  prophesied. 

From  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  read: 
".  .  .  therefore  this  life  became  a  pro- 
bationary state;  a  time  to  prepare  to 
meet  God;  .  .  ."  (Alma  12:24.) 

Whatever  we  do  effectively  must  be 
founded  on  faith  and  repentance  and 
good  works.  Our  sins  need  not  dis- 
courage us  if  we  have  the  will  to  over- 
come them.  Isaiah  wrote: 

"Come  now,  and  let  us  reason  to- 
gether, saith  the  Lord:  though  your  sins 
be  as  scarlet,  they  shall  be  as  white  as 
snow;  though  they  be  red  like  crimson, 
they  shall  be  as  wool."  (Isaiah  1:18.) 

All  must  be  accomplished  with  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  our  Comforter, 
and  inspiration.    Now  the  gift  of  the 


PRESIDENT  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


91 


Holy  Ghost  comes  to  us  through  a  very 
definite,  clear  channel,  as  we  have 
pointed  out.  Our  testimony  of  God  is 
confirmed.  We  learn  the  truth.  Faith 
is  the  motivating  force  in  our  lives.  We 
are  comforted  in  our  righteousness. 

We  gain  encouragement  from  the 
words  of  the  psalmist: 

"Yea,  though  I  walk  through  the  val- 
ley of  the  shadow  of  death,  I  will  fear 
no  evil:  for  thou  art  with  me;  thy  rod 
and  thy  staff  they  comfort  me."  (Psalm 
23:4.) 

"The  Lord  is  my  light  and  my  salva- 
tion; whom  shall  I  fear?  the  Lord  is  the 
strength  of  my  life;  of  whom  shall  I  be 
afraid?"  (Ibid.,  27:1.) 

In  our  journey  through  life  we  need 
help,  strength,  and  assurance.  Joseph 
Smith  in  his  youth,  as  he  read  the  Bible, 
took  seriously  the  promise  of  James: 

"If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him 
ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it 
shall  be  given  him."  (James  1:5.) 

In  answer  to  his  humble  prayer  came 
the  visitation  of  the  Father  and  the  Son 
to  him  which  led  to  the  re-establishment 
of  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God  on 
the  earth  in  these  latter-days.  God  con- 
tinues to  hear  and  answer  the  prayers 
of  his  people. 

Now  when  our  repentance  is  sincere, 
we  shun  evil  and  seek  the  better  things 
of  life;  we  pray;  we  read  the  scriptures; 
we  look  to  the  earth  life  and  ministry  of 
Jesus  Christ  for  our  guide;  we  know  the 
scriptures  are  true  and  throw  essential 
light  upon  our  search  for  a  knowledge 
of  God  and  upon  our  responsibility  to 
God  and  to  ourselves.  By  prayer  and 
the  reading  of  scriptures  we  soon  find 
our  true  relationship  to  God.  We  accept 
the  invitation  of  Jesus  Christ: 

"Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labour  and 
are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you 
rest. 

"Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn 
of  me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in 
heart:  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your 
souls. 

"For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden 
is  light."  (Matt.  11:28-30.) 

The  Lord  told  Joseph  Smith  in  these 
words: 

"And  by  your  hands  I  will  work  a 
marvelous  work  among  the  children  of 
men,  unto  the  convincing  of  many  of 


their  sins,  that  they  may  come  unto 
repentance,  and  that  they  may  come 
unto  the  kingdom  of  my  Father. 

"Wherefore,  the  blessings  which  I 
give  unto  you  are  above  all  things." 
(D&C  18:44-45.) 

Before  this  day  of  judgment  comes, 
which  is  to  start  at  the  house  of  God, 
according  to  Peter,  the  New  Testament 
tells  of  many  grand  and  glorious  events 
which  must  occur  in  the  latter  days. 

John  the  Revelator  gives  us  the  final 
biblical  assurance  of  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  on  earth  before  the  day  of 
final  judgment. 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people. 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  water."  (Rev. 
14:6-7.) 

We  proclaim  in  all  seriousness  that 
the  everlasting  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
has  been  restored  to  the  earth  as  prophe- 
sied by  John  the  Revelator,  through 
the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  We  invite  all  mankind 
to  investigate  our  proclamations  to  the 
world  that  the  gospel  has  been  restored 
to  the  earth  in  these  latter  days  in  its 
fulness  by  angels  from  heaven,  who 
appeared  to  the  Prophet  and  instructed 
him  in  the  details  of  the  restoration  of 
God's  Church  and  kingdom  here  on 
earth  and  gave  to  him  for  the  world  the 
saving  principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
gospel  in  their  purity. 

After  the  angelic  visitation,  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  were  visited 
by  Peter,  James,  and  John — resurrected 
beings — who  laid  their  hands  upon  the 
heads  of  Joseph  and  Oliver  and  con- 
ferred upon  them  the  priesthood  of  God. 

In  keeping  with  the  commission 
Joseph  Smith  had  previously  received 
from  the  visitation  of  God  the  Father 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  he  organized 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  on  April  6,  1830,  in  the  state 
of  New  York.  Since  then  it  has  steadily 
grown  for  a  hundred  thirty-two  years 
from  six  members  to  two  million,  scat- 
tered throughout  the  world.   Our  mes- 


92 

Sunday,  October  7 

sage  is  in  fulfilment  of  prophecy  of  old. 

All  who  have  complied  faithfully  with 
the  saving  ordinances  of  the  gospel 
bear  witness  as  do  we  here  today,  that 
God  has  once  again  conferred  his  priest- 
hood upon  man  to  preach  the  gospel 
and  administer  in  the  ordinances  there- 
of. By  virtue  of  the  priesthood  thus 
conferred  upon  us,  we  call  all  mankind 
to  repentance,  and  testify  that  through 
faith  in  God,  repentance  of  our  sins,  and 
baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission 
of  sins,  and  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  we  can  bring 
ourselves  back  into  the  presence  of 
God,  there  to  enjoy  exaltation  eternally 
in  his  kingdom. 

Our  missionaries  throughout  the 
world  hold  the  priesthood  thus  restored 
to  the  earth  and  are  prepared  to  assist 
you  in  your  search  for  truth.  Our  mis- 
sionaries bear  solemn  witness  to  the 
world  that  Jesus  Christ  lives  and  that 
he  is  the  Son  of  God.  We  are  all  en- 
gaged in  carrying  out  the  mandate 
which  Christ  gave  to  his  apostles: 

"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  na- 
tions, baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the 
Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you: 
and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto 
the  end  of  the  world.  Amen."  (Matt. 
28:19-20.) 

In  our  earnest  endeavor  today  to 
fulfil  this  commission  which  Jesus  Christ 
gave  to  his  apostles  of  old,  we  seek 
through  our  missionary  labors  at  home 
and  abroad  to  prepare  ourselves  and  our 
neighbors,  all  who  will  heed  our  message, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

for  the  day  of  judgment.  We  wish  it 
could  be  said  of  all  of  our  fellow  men 
as  Paul  wrote  of  the  Ephesians: 

"Now  therefore  ye  are  no  more 
strangers  and  foreigners,  but  fellow- 
citizens  with  the  saints,  and  of  the 
household  of  God; 

"And  are  built  upon  the  foundation 
of  the  apostles  and  prophets,  Jesus  Christ 
himself  being  the  chief  corner  stone; 
.  .  ."  (Eph.  2:19-20.) 

I  bear  my  solemn  witness  to  the 
world  that  Jesus  lives,  that  his  mission 
upon  the  earth  was  divine,  that  he  is 
the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  the  Father, 
and  we  hold  his  commission  to  carry 
his  gospel  to  the  world  today,  that  he 
is  the  cornerstone  upon  which  we 
build — the  head  of  the  Church. 

President  David  O.  McKay. 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
President  Henry  D.  Moyle,  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now 
sing  "Lend  Thine  Ear  To  My  Prayer." 
Following  the  singing  Elder  Marion  G. 
Romney  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  speak  to  us. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Lend 
Thine  Ear  To  My  Prayer." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Marion 
G.  Romney  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters  and 
friends,  seen  and  unseen:  My  spirit  is 
subdued  by  the  potential  of  this  occasion. 
There  must  be  eight  thousand  of  you 
within  my  vision,  and  I  am  advised  that 
the  radio  and  television  audience  is 
worldwide  and  may  be  numbered  in  the 
millions.  If  I  thought  of  you  in  mass, 
I  should  be  overwhelmed.  But  I  am  not 
thinking  of  you  in  mass.  I  want  the 
relationship  between  each  of  you  and 


me  to  be  a  personal  one,  for  I  bear  a 
divine  message  of  the  greatest  signifi- 
cance to  each  of  you.  Fully  accepted,  it 
will  bring  to  each  of  us  the  abundant 
life  of  which  Jesus  spoke.  Widely  ac- 
cepted, the  rivalry  and  contention  among 
nations  would  cease  and  peace  would 
flow  down  as  dew  from  heaven  upon  all 
the  peoples  of  the  earth. 

This  great  consummation  will  be 
realized  when  and  only  when  men  catch 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


93 


the  meaning  of  and  live  by  the  full 
implication  of  Paul's  great  statement  in 
his  sermon  on  Mars'  hill: 

"God  that  made  the  world  and  all 
things  .  .  .  dwelleth  not  in  temples 
made  with  hands; 

"Neither  is  worshipped  with  men's 
hands,  as  though  he  needed  any  thing, 
seeing  he  giveth  to  all  life,  and  breath, 
and  all  things; 

"And  hath  made  of  one  blood  all 
nations  of  men  for  to  dwell  on  all  the 
face  of  the  earth,  and  hath  determined 
the  times  before  appointed,  and  the 
bounds  of  their  habitation; 

"That  they  should  seek  the  Lord,  .  .  . 
and  find  him,  though  he  be  not  far 
from  every  one  of  us: 

"For  in  him  we  live,  and  move,  and 
have  our  being;  .  .  .  For  we  are  ...  his 
offspring."  (Acts  17:24-28.) 

I  have  chosen  for  my  text  Alma's  final 
charge  to  his  son  Helaman — ".  .  .  look  to 
God  and  live."  (Alma  37:47.)  Alma,  an 
American  prophet-statesman,  was  speak- 
ing about  93  BC.  He  was  well  qualified 
to  give  this  charge  because  he  had  expe- 
rienced the  consequences  of  running 
counter  to  it,  and  he  had  enjoyed  the 
blessings  of  obeying  it.  Through  terrify- 
ing suffering  he  had  learned  that  the 
penalty  for  not  looking  to  God  is  pain 
and  death.  Through  a  subsequent  life  of 
righteousness  he  had  learned  that  the  re- 
ward for  looking  to  God  is  fulness  of  life. 

He  had  learned  from  the  records  of  the 
people  who  had  inhabited  America  be- 
tween 2200  BC  and  his  own  time  that 
they  had  been  utterly  destroyed  in  a 
fratricidal  war  resulting  from  their  re- 
fusal to  "look  to  God." 

He  had  learned  from  the  history  of 
this  vanished  race  the  word  of  God  to 
their  prophets,  the  word  of  God  to  the 
prophets  of  his  own  people,  and  from 
revelations  to  himself  and  from  his  own 
experience,  that  the  only  way  his  people 
could  escape  the  fate  of  their  prede- 
cessors was  for  them  to  look  to  God. 

As  chief  of  state  he  had  learned  the 
limitations  of  civil  government  and  the 
inability  of  political  power  to  bring  the 
abundant  life  or  the  perpetuation  of 
civilization.  So  sure  was  he  that  his 
people,  if  they  would  live,  must  look  to 
God  that  when  he  saw  them  departing 
from  the  ways  of  God,  he  relinquished 
his  office  as  chief  of  state  ".  .  .  that  he 


himself  might  go  forth  among  his 
people,  .  .  .  [and]  preach  the  word  of 
God  unto  them,  to  stir  them  up  in  re- 
membrance of  their  duty,  and  that  he 
might  pull  down,  by  the  word  of  God, 
all  the  pride  and  craftiness  and  all  the 
contentions  which  were  among  his  peo- 
ple, seeing  no  [other]  way  that  he  might 
reclaim  them  [from  their  wicked- 
ness]. .  .  ."  (Alma  4:19.) 

It  was  against  this  background  that 
Alma  so  earnestly  sought  to  impress 
upon  his  sons  the  message  of  our  text — 
".  .  .  look  to  God  and  live." 

Six  thousand  years  of  human  history 
attests  to  Alma's  wisdom.  Every  chapter 
thereof  teaches  that  the  uninspired  wis- 
dom of  men  cannot  build  a  lasting  stable 
civilization  nor  bring  peace  and  happi- 
ness to  individual  men.  All  the  evidence 
teaches  that  if  man  would  live  abun- 
dantly and  preserve  his  civilization,  he 
must  look  to  God.  Generation  after 
generation  has  learned  through  sad  ex- 
perience that  ".  .  .  cursed  is  he  that 
putteth  his  trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh. 
Yea,  cursed  is  he  that  putteth  his  trust 
in  man.  .  .  ."  (2  Nephi  4:34.) 

Nor  are  the  prophets  the  only  ones 
to  be  persuaded  that  "Except  the  Lord 
build  the  house,  they  labour  in  vain 
that  build  it:  .  .  ."  (Psalm  127:1.) 
Josephus,  for  example,  introducing  his 
Antiquities  of  the  jews,  says  that: 
"Moses,  our  legislator,  .  .  .  deemed  it 
exceeding  necessary,  that  he  who  would 
conduct  his  own  life  well,  and  give  laws 
to  others,  in  the  first  place  should  con- 
sider the  Divine  nature,  .  .  .  [Nor  did 
Moses  think  that]  any  thing  he  should 
write  [would]  tend  to  the  promotion  of 
virtue  in  his  readers;  .  .  .  unless  they  be 
taught  first  of  all,  that  God  is  the  Father 
and  Lord  of  all  things,  .  .  .  [He  there- 
fore] did  not  begin  the  establishment  of 
his  laws  after  the  same  manner  that 
other  legislators  did;  [i.e.,]"  and  I  am 
still  quoting  from  Josephus,  "upon  con- 
tracts and  other  rites  between  one  man 
and  another,  but  by  raising  their  minds 
upward  to  regard  God,  and  his  creation 
of  the  world;  and  by  persuading  them, 
that  we  men  are  the  most  excellent  of 
the  creatures  of  God  upon  earth  .  .  . 
when  he  had  once  demonstrated  that 
God  was  possessed  of  perfect  virtue,  he 
supposed  that  men  also  ought  to  strive 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


94 

Sunday,  October  7 

after  the  participation  of  it;  .  .  ."  (The 
Works  of  Josephus,  pp.  38-39.) 

In  an  exhaustive  treatise  on  The  Good 
Society,  a  modern  author,  Hugh  Evander 
Willis,  A.B.,  A.M.,  LLB.,  LLM.,  LLD., 
Professor  of  Law,  Emeritus,  Indiana  Uni- 
versity, concludes  that  the  best  and  only 
remedy  to  the  present  problems  and  the 
establishment  of  a  good  society  is  "the 
religion  of  Jesus."  He  makes  a  great 
point  of  the  fact  that  the  only  motive 
strong  enough  to  induce  men  to  exercise 
that  self-control  required  by  the  religion 
of  Jesus  is  love.  "Jesus,"  he  says,  "pro- 
posed," (he  uses  the  word  proposed 
because  he  does  not  accept  Elohim  and 
Jesus  as  actually  Father  and  Son.)  "to 
extend  this  love  to  the  entire  human 
race  through  teaching  [not  as  a  fact, 
mind  you,  not  as  a  reality,  but  as  a 
device]  the  fatherhood  of  God  and  the 
brotherhood  of  man." 

Here  we  have  an  author  who  is  so 
convinced  that  men  must  look  to  God 
in  order  to  live  in  a  good  society 
that  he  deems  it  necessary  to  teach  the 
fatherhood  of  God  and  the  brotherhood 
of  man  even  though  he  does  not  believe 
it.  The  hope  for  a  good  society  of  this 
man  and  millions  of  professing  Chris- 
tians and  other  men  of  goodwill  who 
adopt  this  thesis  is  doomed  to  failure. 

The  world  crisis  we  now  face  is  upon 
us  precisely  because  men  have  been  and 
now  are  seeking  the  abundant  life,  for 
men,  and  peace  among  nations — the 
fruits  of  looking  to  God — by  preaching 
the  doctrine  of  the  fatherhood  of  God 
and  the  brotherhood  of  man  without 
actually  believing  them.  Of  such,  the 
Lord  says,  ".  .  .  they  draw  near  to  me 
with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts  are  far 
from  me,  .  .  ."  (Joseph  Smith  2:19.) 

The  fatherhood  of  God  and  the 
brotherhood  of  man,  taught  as  mere 
devices,  never  have  and  never  will, 
worlds  without  end,  promote  in  men  the 
love  which  inspires  transforming  self- 
control.  The  one  and  only  motive 
strong  enough  to  do  this  is  a  divinely 
given,  moving,  living  witness  that  God 
is  our  Father  and  that  Jesus  is  his  divine 
Son,  our  Redeemer. 

The  need  for  us  to  look  to  God,  how- 
ever, in  order  to  live  is  inherent  in  the 
very  nature  of  man  and  his  environ- 
ment. It  is  not  founded  on  arbitrary 
command  but  on  universal  law.  Happi- 


Third  Day 

ness,  joy,  peace,  salvation,  and  every 
other  component  of  the  abundant  life 
for  men  and  peace  among  nations,  are 
attained  by  obedience  to  the  laws  upon 
which  they  are  predicated.  They  can 
be  had  in  no  other  way.  God's  com- 
mands but  prescribe  those  laws. 

Mortal  man  is  a  dual  being,  a  spirit 
child  of  God  tabernacled  in  a  physical 
body.  Endowed  with  agency,  he  is  placed 
here  in  mortality  between  opposing 
forces.  The  influence  of  God  on  the  one 
hand  inspires,  pleads,  and  urges  him  to 
follow  the  way  of  life.  On  the  other 
hand  is  the  power  of  Satan  tempting  him 
to  disbelieve  and  disregard  God's  com- 
mandments. The  consequences  of  his 
choices  are  of  the  all-or-nothing  sort. 
There  is  no  way  for  him  to  escape  the 
influence  of  these  opposing  powers.  In- 
evitably he  is  led  by  one  or  the  other. 
His  God-given  free  agency  gives  him  the 
power  and  option  to  choose.  But  choose 
he  must.  Nor  can  he  serve  both  of  them 
at  the  same  time,  for,  as  Jesus  said,  "No 
man  can  serve  two  masters:  ...  Ye 
cannot  serve  God  and  mammon." 
(Matthew  6:24.) 

"To  every  man  there  openeth 

To  every  man  there  openeth 

A  way,  and  ways,  and  a  way. 

The  high  soul  climbs  the  high  way 

The  low  soul  gropes  the  low. 

And  in  between,  on  the  misty  flats 

The  rest  drift  to  and  fro. 

And  every  man  decideth 

The  way  his  soul  shall  go." 

(John  Openham) 

All  men  may,  if  they  will,  choose  the 
way,  the  high  way,  for  God  endows 
every  man  that  cometh  into  the  world 
with  agency  and  a  sure  guide — a  guide 
which  will  lead  him  unerringly  through 
the  world  if  he  will  but  hearken  to  it. 
Listen  to  this  sublime  assurance: 

".  .  .  the  Spirit,"  meaning  the  Spirit 
of  Christ,  "giveth  light  to  every  man 
that  cometh  into  the  world;  and  the 
Spirit  enlighteneth  every  man  through 
the  world,  that  hearkeneth  to  the  voice 
of  the  Spirit. 

"And  every  one  that  hearkeneth  to  the 
voice  of  the  Spirit  cometh  unto  God, 
even  the  Father. 

"And  the  Father  teachcth  him  of  the 
covenant,  .  .  ."  (See  D&C  84:46-48)  that 
is,  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  be 
has  restored  to  the  earth  in  these  last  days 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


95 


for  the  salvation  of  the  whole  world. 

You  see,  my  beloved  brethren  and 
sisters,  whoever  you  are,  wherever  you 
are,  into  whatever  circumstances  you  are 
born,  the  Spirit  of  Christ  attends  us  and, 
until  we  reject  it,  prompts  us  and  en- 
courages us  to  noble  and  high  endeavor. 

The  covenant,  the  gospel,  which  you 
will  learn  through  the  servants  of  God, 
tells  us  how  to  look  to  God.  There  are 
three  requisites: 

A  true  concept  and  knowledge  of  God; 

A  knowledge  of  his  commands;  and 
third,  obedience  to  those  commands. 

That  man  might  have  this  true  con- 
cept and  knowledge  of  him,  God  has, 
through  the  ages,  repeatedly  revealed 
himself.  He  revealed  himself  to  Adam, 
to  Abraham,  to  Moses.  Christ  was  God's 
revelation  of  himself  to  men  in  the 
Meridian  of  Time.  For  the  benefit  of  us 
who  live  in  this  day  he  revealed  himself 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  in  the 
spring  of  1820  in  Palmyra,  New  York. 

Just  as  he  revealed  himself  anew  in 
each  dispensation,  so  has  he  as  often 
restated  his  commandments.  He  re- 
stated them  for  us  of  this  day  also 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

The  Old  Testament  contains  com- 
mandments God  gave  through  the 
prophets  to  ancient  Israel.  The  New 
Testament  contains  those  given  in  the 
Dispensation  of  the  Meridian  of  Time. 
The  Book  of  Mormon  contains  the 
commandments  delivered  by  the  Savior 
to  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  America. 
The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is  a  com- 
pilation of  commandments  which  the 
Lord  gave  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
They  contain  the  instructions  from  which 
we  learn  how  to  look  to  God  today.  They 
were  given  "for  the  sake  of  the  whole 
world"  and  are  binding  upon  all  of  us. 
From  them  we  learn  whom  to  worship 
and  how  to  worship  and  the  course  to 
take  in  order  to  escape  the  calamities 
which  God  sees  coming  upon  the  in- 
habitants of  the  world. 

"For  [said  he]  a  desolating  scourge 
shall  go  forth  among  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth,  and  shall  continue  to  be 
poured  out  from  time  to  time,  if  they 
repent  not,  until  the  earth  is  empty, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  con- 
sumed away  and  utterly  destroyed  by 
the  brightness  of  my  coming. 

"Behold,  I  tell  you  these  things,  even 


as  I  also  told  the  people  of  the  destruc- 
tion of  Jerusalem;  and  my  word  shall  be 
verified  at  this  time  as  it  hath  hitherto 
been  verified."  (D&C  5:19-20.) 

And,  on  the  other  hand,  the  Lord 
promises  that  if  we  will  repent,  look  to 
him  and  keep  his  commandments,  he 
will  fight  our  battles,  destroy  our  ene- 
mies, and  prosper  us  in  the  land;  that 
we  shall  be  a  free  people,  and  he  will 
be  our  King  and  our  lawgiver. 

With  the  perfection  of  Telstar  we 
have  the  means  for  instantaneous  world- 
wide communication.  Sobered  by  this 
awesome  facility,  someone  has  com- 
mented, "Now  that  we  have  the  means, 
what  do  we  have  to  say?" 

From  what  we  have  already  said  it  is 
clear  that  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  is  ready  with  the  an- 
swer, for  it  has  been  commissioned  of 
heaven  to  carry  the  divine  message  of 
the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and 
people,  to  every  living  soul — a  message 
delivered,  in  part,  by  God  himself — 
delivered  in  full  by  him,  his  Beloved 
Son,  and  other  heavenly  beings  to  the 
Latter-day  Prophet  for  the  salvation  of 
all  who  live  in  this  day. 

A  message  that  God  the  Father  and 
Jesus  Christ  his  Son,  our  Redeemer,  live; 
that  they  are  within  our  reach,  seeking 
to  guide  and  direct  and  give  us  light  and 
life;  a  message  containing  the  true  con- 
cept and  knowledge  of  God  and  a 
restatement  of  his  commandments  to 
men;  a  message  which,  if  believed,  will 
give  us  the  power  to  keep  the  command- 
ments which  will  bring  to  each  of  us 
personally,  my  beloved  brothers  and 
sisters,  whoever  you  are,  wherever  you 
may  be,  whatever  the  circumstances  in 
which  you  live — the  abundant  life, 
which  is  peace  of  mind  and  comfort  of 
soul;  a  message  which,  if  widely  ac- 
cepted, will  bring  peace  and  goodwill 
among  all  nations! 

We  Latter-day  Saints  have  learned  the 
facts  of  this  message  from  the  words  of 
the  modern  prophets.  We  have  learned 
of  their  truth,  for  ourselves,  however,  by 
personal  revelation  to  each  of  us.  In 
the  same  manner,  you  may  obtain  like 
witness  by  taking  the  course  which 
leads  to  it.  I  testify  to  you  that  I  do 
know  that  the  message  we  bear  is  true, 
and  I  plead  with  you  and  all  men  every- 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  7 

where  to  come — look  to  God  and  live. 

That  it  may  be  so,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  addressed  us  is  Elder 
Marion  G.  Romney,  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve.  Following  a 
brief  organ  interlude  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Congregation,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting,  will  sing  the 
great  Mormon  hymn,  "Come,  Come,  Ye 
Saints." 


Third  Day 

Following  a  brief  organ  interlude  the 
Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  A. 
Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy  and  President  of  the  South 
American  Mission  with  headquarters  in 
Montevideo. 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  grate- 
ful to  have  this  opportunity  of  meeting 
with  you  on  this  inspiring  occasion.  I 
bring  you  greetings  from  the  seven  mis- 
sion presidents  and  the  members  of  the 
Church  and  missionaries  of  South  Amer- 
ica, and  since  these  proceedings  are 
being  beamed  to  distant  places,  I  send 
greetings  to  all  of  you,  everywhere. 

Several  years  ago  I  was  in  Banff, 
Alberta,  Canada,  eating  at  a  restaurant 
in  company  with  my  wife.  As  we  went 
to  pay  the  bill,  the  Greek  proprietor 
commented  on  what  he  called  her 
"classic  Grecian  profile"  and  engaged 
us  in  conversation.  Learning  that  I  was 
a  churchman,  he  suggested  a  bargain. 
"I  will  pay  for  your  dinner,"  he  said, 
"if  you  can  tell  me  what  is  the  greatest 
thing  in  the  world."  I  counseled  with 
my  wife  and  replied,  "Love  is  the  great- 
est thing  in  the  world."  "You  pay  for 
the  dinner,  my  friend,"  he  said.  "Love 
is  not  the  greatest  thing  in  the  world. 
It  is  hope." 

Then  briefly  he  related  how  he  had 
lost  his  business,  his  money,  his  friends, 
his  family,  everything  that  he  loved; 
all  that  he  had  left  was  hope.  Hope 
had  saved  him  and  sustained  him  when 
all  else  had  been  lost. 

For  the  past  fourteen  months  we  have 
lived  in  South  America  in  the  midst,  as 
it  were,  of  great  turmoil  and  trouble. 
We  have  seen  frequent  political  and 
factional  upheavals.  In  my  travels  up 
and  down  that  broad  land,  I  have  con- 
tacted literally  thousands  of  people  who 
live  without  sufficient  to  eat  or  wear, 


whose  lives  are  equally  spiritually 
starved  and  worse  still,  who  live  without 
hope. 

However,  I  know  a  man  who  is  dif- 
ferent. He  has  hope.  He  is  typical  of 
a  remnant  of  over  25,000  other  members 
of  the  Church  in  South  America.  I  shall 
call  him  Juan  Fulano.  He  lives  in 
a  little  modest  home  with  his  aged 
father  and  mother  and  his  wife  and  five 
small  children.  He  is  a  mechanic  by 
trade  and  works  in  a  garage  six  days  a 
week  for  ten  hours  a  day. 

It  has  been  interesting  to  note  how 
great  world  politics  affect  his  whole 
existence,  his  country,  his  home,  his  job, 
his  children.  Juan  used  to  be  like  so 
many  of  his  countrymen.  He  worked 
and  ate  and  drank  and  slept  and  lived 
without  hope  of  anything  better.  He 
attended  church  only  seldom,  if  ever; 
though  his  wife  went  more  frequently. 
He  had  no  faith  in  God  or  man  and  was 
intemperate  in  his  habits.  He  worried 
about  the  possibility  of  war,  was  upset 
by  the  turmoil  in  his  government,  and 
had  little  use  for  his  fellow  men. 

However,  in  Juan  Fulano,  I  saw  peace 
take  root  and  grow.  No  longer  is  peace 
an  abstraction  to  me.  Juan  Fulano's 
whole  life  has  changed,  his  home,  his 
job,  his  children,  he,  himself.  Juan  now 
has  faith.  He  has  drawn  close  to  his 
Heavenly  Father.  He  prays  now  and 
finds  not  only  comfort  and  solace,  but 
also  answers  to  his  worthy  petitions.  He 
has  repented,  changed.  He  is  now 
sensitive  to  the  spiritual  values  in  life. 
Juan  has  been  baptized  by  immersion 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 


97 


for  the  remission  of  his  sins  by  those 
who  hold  authority  and  has  had  hands 
laid  upon  his  head  to  confer  upon  him 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  is 
leading  and  will  lead  him  into  all 
truth. 

In  addition  he  has  received  the  priest- 
hood of  God  and  has  been  ordained  an 
elder.  He  now  not  only  attends  church 
regularly  but  is  the  presiding  authority 
in  his  local  church  branch.  He  is  re- 
leasing the  potential  he  has  for  leader- 
ship and  service.  He  is  not  the  same 
man  that  he  was  eight  months  ago  when 
two  servants  of  the  Lord  found  him  and 
taught  him  the  gospel. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  designed 
to  bring  peace  to  the  earth.  To  many 
this  may  seem  only  an  idle  dream — 
impossible,  Utopian.  Others  have  good 
cause  to  say,  "But  Christianity  has 
failed.  We  have  not  had  peace  in 
nineteen  hundred  years.  Instead  the 
church  has  even  waged  so-called  'holy 
wars.' " 

May  I  remind  you,  however,  that 
these  churches  have  not  been  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  is  the  head 
of  none  of  these  man-made  churches. 
His  authority  to  administer  his  gospel 
was  lost  to  the  earth  shortly  after  the 
second  century  AD  according  both  to 
prophecy  and  to  fact.  It  was  necessary 
for  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  to  appear  in  the  year  1820  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  restore  the  true  knowl- 
edge of  God  and  to  call  him  to  be  a 
prophet.  It  was  necessary  to  establish 
and  empower  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  to  teach  and 
administer  the  ordinances  of  his  gospel. 
Since  1830  this  Church  has  grown  in 
strength  and  power  for  righteousness  in 
the  earth.  It  can  and  will  achieve  its 
ultimate  purpose  of  bringing  peace. 

But  peace  is  not  easily  obtained  be- 
cause peace  is  rooted  in  righteousness! 
It  grows  not  in  the  soil  of  sin  or  in 
indifference  to  the  Spirit  of  God.  It 
occurs  not  by  edict  or  force.  It  comes 
by  voluntary  change  in  the  heart  of  man. 

Obedience  to  divine  law  and  right- 
eousness precede,  not  follow  peace.  Peace 
comes  not  as  an  endowment  or  gift.  Like 
happiness  it  is  ultimately  obtained  not 
by  working  or  seeking  for  it,  per  se,  but 
rather  it  comes  as  an  outgrowth,  a  by- 
product, as  it  were,  of  righteousness.  It 


comes  as  a  blessing  to  those  who  are 
righteous. 

The  fear  of  such  things  as  an  atomic 
war  is  a  misunderstanding  of  the  de- 
structive force  which  causes  war.  It 
did  not  take  nuclear  physics  to  destroy 
the  Nephites  who  lived  on  this  conti- 
nent fifteen  hundred  years  ago.  The 
destructive  power  was  sin  and  disobedi- 
ence to  divine  law.  The  weapons  used 
were  bows  and  arrows.  Today  the  de- 
structive power  is  sin  and  disobedience 
to  divine  law.  The  weapons  differ 
somewhat  but  accomplish  exactly  the 
same  end. 

If  we  are  wicked,  we  have  cause  to 
fear  every  weapon.  If  we  are  righteous, 
we  need  fear  nothing. 

Juan  Fulano  has  peace  in  his  heart 
today,  not  because  he  sought  for  peace 
but  because  he  sought  to  obey  divine 
law;  because  he  obeyed  the  funda- 
mental principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  So  it  is  with  all 
men,  if  they  would  have  peace.  It 
begins  with,  first,  faith  in  and  acceptance 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  second,  re- 
pentance and  a  firm  resolution  to  keep 
the  commandments  God  has  given  to  his 
children;  third,  baptism  by  immersion 
for  the  remission  of  his  sins;  and 
fourth,  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Acceptance  of  and  conformance  to 
these  simple  basic  requirements  opened 
the  door  for  Juan  Fulano  and  started 
him  on  his  way  to  perfection  and  peace, 
and  so  it  will  do  for  every  man:  the 
John  Does,  the  Hans  Nelsons,  the  Taki 
Yomomatos,  the  Ivan  Moscovitches,  and 
the  Benny  Tall-Mountains. 

If  this  formula  seems  too  simple  to 
establish  peace,  may  I  remind  you  that 
this  very  gospel,  the  observance  of  these 
basic,  identical  principles  have  brought 
righteousness  and  peace  to  the  earth  in 
times  past. 

The  Book  of  Mormon,  a  sacred  vol- 
ume of  scripture,  records  the  visit  and 
the  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ  on  this  the 
American  continent.  I  quote  briefly 
from  this  record: 

".  .  .  and  behold  the  disciples  of 
Jesus  had  formed  a  church  of  Christ  in 
all  the  lands  round  about.  And  as 
many  as  did  come  unto  them,  and  did 
truly  repent  of  their  sins,  were  baptized 


98 

Sunday,  October  7 

in  the  name  of  Jesus;  and  they  did  also 
receive  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  in  the  thirty 
and  sixth  year,  the  people  were  all  con- 
verted unto  the  Lord,  upon  all  the  face 
of  the  land,  both  Nephites  and  Laman- 
ites,  and  there  were  no  contentions  and 
disputations  among  them,  and  every 
man  did  deal  justly  one  with  another. 

"And  they  had  all  things  common 
among  them;  therefore  there  were  not 
rich  and  poor,  bond  and  free,  but  they 
were  all  made  free,  and  partakers  of  the 
heavenly  gift.  .  .  . 

"And  there  were  no  envyings,  nor 
strifes,  nor  tumults,  nor  whoredoms,  nor 
lyings,  nor  murders,  nor  any  manner  of 
lasciviousness;  and  surely  there  could 
not  be  a  happier  people  among  all  the 
people  who  had  been  created  by  the 
hand  of  God. . .  . 

"And  how  blessed  were  they!  For  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Lord  did  bless  them  in  all  their  doings; 
.  .  ."  for  some  one  hundred  and  sixty 
years.  (See  4  Nephi  1:1-3,  16,  18.) 

Thus  they  did  have  peace,  but  I  re- 
peat again,  based  upon  obedience  to  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  by  obedience  to 
the  words  of  the  living  prophets  and 
apostles. 

I  bear  testimony  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  President  David 
O.  McKay  is  the  prophet  to  the  world 
today,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy,  and  at  present 
President  of  the  South  American  Mis- 
sion, has  just  concluded  speaking.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Bishop  Robert  L. 
Simpson  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  how  grate- 
ful I  am  for  this  opportunity  of  attend- 
ing this  glorious  conference.  I  do  not 
know  when  I  have  felt  a  more  generous 
outpouring  of  the  spirit  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  Would  it  not  be  wonderful  if 
the  world's  problems  and  differences 
could  be  solved  and  decided  under  such 
a  feeling  of  unity  and  warmth  as  we 
find  here  this  morning?  I  pray  to  my 
Heavenly  Father  that  the  expressions  of 
these  few  minutes  will  be  a  direct  reflec- 
tion of  the  testimony  that  I  feel  in  my 
heart. 

Living  in  this  jet  age  of  accelerated 
pace  and  challenge  causes  serious  reflec- 
tion on  some  fundamental  issues.  We 
might  ask  ourselves  a  few  basic  ques- 
tions; for  example,  "How  can  precious 
time  and  energy  be  spent  most  profit- 
ably?" "What  comes  first?"  "To  what 
shall  we  turn  our  hand  next?"  "Does  a 
loving  Father  really  dwell  in  the  heav- 
ens?" These  all-important  questions 
have  been  asked  by  practically  every 
person  who  has  ever  lived.  Sometimes 
we  avoid  dedicating  ourselves  to  the 
direction  that  common  reason  tells  us  to 
be  right  until  a  cirmumstance  forces 
the  issue.  I  shall  never  forget  a  thought- 


provoking  experience  that  came  to  me  at 
the  outbreak  of  World  War  II,  and  I 
would  like  to  share  it  with  you  briefly: 

The  British  Empire  had  just  de- 
clared war  on  the  Axis  powers.  At  the 
time  I  was  a  missionary  in  far-off  New 
Zealand,  and  that  country  was  busily 
engaged  in  adjusting  itself  to  wartime 
footing.  Various  projects  were  launched 
by  the  government  in  an  attempt  to 
make  the  people  sense  the  seriousness  of 
their  situation.  One  beautiful  morning 
I  was  walking  with  my  companion  down 
the  main  street  of  New  Zealand's  largest 
city,  when  our  attention  was  captured  by 
a  group  of  low-level  bombers  approach- 
ing rapidly  over  the  city.  Their 
markings  were  indistinct,  and  we 
thought  to  ourselves  "Might  this  be  the 
enemy?"  Just  at  that  moment  the 
bomb  bays  began  to  open  up.  It  was 
a  very  ominous  sight.  Then,  what  ap- 
peared to  be  bombs  were  released  from 
the  bomb  bays  and  everyone  stood 
transfixed.  Everyone  stood  in  amaze- 
ment, and  was  very  much  relieved  to  see 
that  these  would-be-bombs  disintegrated 
into  thousands  of  leaflets,  fluttering 
down  over  the  city. 

Being  tall,  I  was  one  of  the  first  to 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 


99 


reach  a  falling  pamphlet,  and  bringing 
it  quickly  into  focus,  my  companion  and 
I  read  this  brief  but  startling  message: 
"If  this  were  a  bomb,  where  would  you 
be?"  Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  you  can 
be  certain  that  our  thoughts  were  very 
serious  on  that  occasion,  and  I  want 
to  tell  you  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  its  importance  to  mankind  seemed 
foremost,  above  all  else. 

The  gospel,  as  set  down  by  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  was  never  intended  to  be 
the  least  bit  confusing,  for  he  is  the 
author  of  truth  and  light.  Our  Heav- 
enly Father  has  but  one  desire  and  that 
is  to  have  as  many  of  his  children  as 
possible,  regain  his  presence. 

You  know,  I  had  a  business  acquaint- 
ance, and  he  once  complained  that  to 
him,  religion  had  become  a  mass  of 
confusion.  He  said  that  the  road  im- 
mediately ahead  was  covered  with  thick 
fog — that  the  bright  goals  which  seemed 
so  clear  and  discernible  in  his  child- 
hood, now  seemed  obscure  and  ques- 
tionable. He  was  losing  his  faith!  He 
was  standing  alone! 

We  ofttimes  lose  sight  of  basic  goals 
as  we  struggle  against  the  adversary  in 
this  mortal  realm  of  existence.  Nothing 
would  please  him  more  than  to  have  us 
distracted  in  our  attempts  to  regain  the 
presence  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and 
such  was  the  plight  of  my  friend. 

Often  we  hear  folks  say,  "I  can't  see 
the  forest  for  the  trees."  How  important 
it  is  for  us  to  ascend  a  vantage  point 
from  time  to  time,  above  the  fog  that 
my  friend  referred  to;  there  to  check 
direction  and  relative  position;  there  to 
decide  on  things  of  most  importance; 
there  to  re-evaluate  our  goals. 

The  Lord  gave  the  key  to  all  men 
nearly  two  thousand  years  ago  when  he 
said: 

"Behold,  I  stand  at  the  door,  and 
knock:  if  any  man  hear  my  voice,  and 
open  the  door,  I  will  come  in  to  him, 
and  will  sup  with  him,  and  he  with  me. 

"To  him  that  overcometh  will  I  grant 
to  sit  with  me  in  my  throne,  even  as  I 
also  overcame,  and  am  set  down  with 
my  Father  in  his  throne."  (Rev.  3:20-21.) 

How  grateful  we  should  be  to  have 
this  key  to  live  by.  How  grateful  we 
should  be  that  as  we  face  the  tremendous 
task  of  overcoming  the  imperfections 
of  mortality,  he  assures  us  of  his  pres- 


ence and  sustaining  help;  but  not  with- 
out one  very  important  stipulation,  that 
the  incentive  must  come  from  us,  for 
remember  he  said,  "Behold,  I  stand  at 
the  door,  and  knock."  In  other  words, 
he  is  always  there,  ready  to  enter,  ready 
to  be  with  us,  but  we,  too  often,  fail  to 
recognize  the  knock. 

How  can  any  man  look  into  the  heav- 
ens and  witness  the  order  of  his 
creations,  without  hearing  that  knock? 
How  can  any  witness  the  wonders  of 
this  electronic  and  nuclear  age  without 
hearing  the  knock?  How  can  we  partici- 
pate in  the  revealed  wonders  of  medicine 
without  indeed  knowing  that  his  mercy 
and  love  extend  toward  all  men? 

He  goes  on  to  say,  ".  .  .  if  any  man 
hear  my  voice," — not  just  some  special, 
select  group  of  men,  but  "any  man," 
any  or  all  of  more  than  three  billion 
that  live  on  the  face  of  the  earth,  may 
accept  of  this  invitation  freely. 

".  .  .  if  any  man  hear  my  voice,  and 
open  the  door,  I  will  come  in  to  him, 
.  .  ."  What  must  we  do?  It  is  up  to  us 
to  open  the  door!  He  knocks;  we  recog- 
nize his  voice;  and  then  we  open  the 
door. 

It  is  not  the  Lord's  plan  to  force  his 
will  upon  anyone.  Holman  Hunt,  the 
artist,  felt  inspired  to  capture  this 
stirring  scripture  on  canvas.  One  day 
he  was  showing  his  picture  of  "Christ 
Knocking  at  the  Door,"  to  a  friend, 
when  the  friend  suddenly  exclaimed, 
"There  is  one  thing  wrong  about  your 
picture."  "What  is  it?"  inquired  the 
artist.  "The  door  on  which  Jesus 
knocks  has  no  handle."  "Ah,"  replied 
Mr.  Hunt,  "this  is  not  a  mistake.  The 
handle  is  inside.  It  is  from  within,  the 
door  must  be  opened.  Man  must  take 
the  initiative." 

Yes,  brothers  and  sisters,  we  are  weak; 
we  do  need  help;  we  need  help  in  over- 
coming. Where  should  we  turn  for 
spiritual  and  moral  strength?  Should 
we  desire  to  become  a  doctor,  we  do  not 
hesitate  to  seek  qualified  doctors  to  train 
us.  If  our  interest  is  in  the  field  of  law, 
we  turn  to  those  who  are  graduates  in 
law,  to  become  experts  ourselves. 

Almost  all  men  have  the  goal  of  our 
Heavenly  Father's  presence — so  why  not 
recognize  the  knock?  Why  not  seek  his 
counsel  and  listen  to  the  voice?  Let's 
open  the  door  and  let  him  in.  Let's 


100 

Sunday,  October  7 

partake  abundantly  of  this  one  great 
source  of  truth  and  light,  for  his  promise 
rings  ever  true: 

"...  I  will  give  unto  him  that  is 
athirst  of  the  fountain  of  the  water  of 
life  freely. 

"He  that  overcometh  shall  inherit 
all  things;  and  I  will  be  his  God,  and 
he  shall  be  my  son."  (Rev.  21:6-7.) 

After  we  open  the  door,  graciously 
accepting  the  help  that  is  so  necessary 
to  our  success,  the  Lord  gives  us  an- 
other great  promise  in  the  following 
verse,  and  how  appropriate  that  it  fol- 
lows his  promise  of  help,  for  it  is  un- 
likely that  man  could  ever  achieve  this 
promise  on  his  own.  He  goes  on 
to  say: 

"To  him  that  overcometh  will  I  grant 
to  sit  with  me  in  my  throne,  even  as  I 
also  overcame,  and  am  set  down  with 
my  Father  in  his  throne."  (Ibid.,  3:21.) 

Now,  as  the  Lord  draws  close  to  us  in 
fulfilment  of  his  promise,  his  advice 
and  counsel  will  be  direct  and  clear 
and  undeviating  from  that  original 
theme  which  has  been  the  very  core  of 
his  message  from  the  beginning  of  time. 
He  will  tell  us  that  our  overcoming  can 
best  be  accomplished  in  terms  of  others; 
for  example,  the  priesthood  has  been 
restored  in  our  day.  Thousands  of 
priesthood  holders  are  here  this  morning. 

Brethren,  what  can  we  do  for  our- 
selves with  the  priesthood?  We  only  do 
for  others  with  the  priesthood.  We 
bless  others,  we  perform  ordinances  for 
others,  we  perform  service  for  others. 
Such  is  the  admonition  given  by  the 
Savior  to  all  mankind.  Matthew  has 
recorded  the  Savior's  words  as  follows: 

".  .  .  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  Inasmuch 
as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least 
of  these  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it 
unto  me."  (Matt.  25:40.) 

Another  great  prophet,  speaking  from 
this  hemisphere,  expressed  it  in  this 
way: 

".  .  .  when  ye  are  in  the  service  of 
your  fellow  beings  ye  are  only  in  the 
service  of  your  God."  (Mosiah  2:17.) 

Selfishness  and  ingratitude  are  tools  of 
destruction.  The  civilized  world  rocks 
and  reels  today  because  of  selfish  atti- 
tudes. I  like  the  expression  given  in  a 
poem  which  starts: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

"Lord,  help  me  to  live  from 

day  to  day 
In  such  a  self-forgetful  way 
That  even  when  I  kneel  to  pray 
My  prayer  shall  be  of  others." 

And  then  concludes: 

"Others,  Lord,  yes,  others. 
Let  this  my  motto  be. 
Help  me  to  live  for  others 
That  I  may  live  for  Thee." 

May  we  constantly  strive  to  be  worthy, 
worthy  of  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly 
Father.  None  can  do  it  alone.  We 
must  open  the  door  wide;  we  must  ex- 
tend the  arm  of  fellowship  to  those  about 
us,  forgetting  self,  thinking  of  others, 
always  others — not  waiting  until  tomor- 
row, but  today — for  who  can  tell — "If 
this  were  a  bomb,  where  would  you 
be?" 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  know  that  God 
lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
This  is  his  work;  the  heavens  have  been 
opened,  and  a  prophet  stands  at  this 
day  to  receive  revelation  for  the  peoples 
of  this  earth.  I  bear  that  testimony 
to  you. 

God  grant  us  the  vision  to  see  the 
way  clearly  ahead  is  my  humble  prayer, 
in  the  name  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Bishop 
Robert  L.  Simpson  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  of  the  Church.  The  Taber- 
nacle Choir  will  now  sing  "Lead  Kindly 
Light,"  after  which  Elder  Marion  D. 
Hanks  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Sev- 
enty will  give  the  concluding  address. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"Lead  Kindly  Light." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Marion 
D.  Hanks  of  the  First  Council  of  Sev- 
enty and  presently  serving  as  president 
of  the  British  Mission  with  head- 
quarters in  London. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


When  the  Apostle  Paul  wrote  to  the 
Corinthian  Saints,  he  spoke  of  a  Spirit 
through  which  the  things  of  God  may 
be  known.  In  a  modern  time  when 
God  revealed  his  will  to  his  choice 
servant  Joseph  Smith,  there  was  spoken 
of  a  Spirit  through  which  they  who 
listen  and  he  who  speaks  may  find 
communion  and  be  mutually  edified. 
For  that  Spirit  I  earnestly  pray. 

In  the  great  land  in  which  I  am  privi- 
leged to  work  in  the  missionary  cause 
with  many  of  your  choice  sons  and 
daughters,  a  clergyman  recently  issued 
a  statement,  urging  his  people  not  to 
listen  to  the  representatives  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  as  they  seek  to  converse  with 
them.  He  urged  the  people  not  to  "sur- 
render the  substance  for  the  shadow." 
This  latter  admonition  is  interesting 
and  should  receive  the  most  serious 
consideration.  I  have  been  thinking  all 
through  this  conference,  as  testimony 
and  witness  have  been  borne  as  to  God 
and  Christ  and  the  relationship  of  man 
to  them,  as  to  the  eternal  nature  of  life, 
the  reality  of  the  resurrection,  the  pro- 
found importance  and  absolute  validity 
of  the  restoration,  "Where  is  the  sub- 
stance? Where  is  the  shadow?" 

This  inquiry  would  be  valid  and  of 
great  interest  in  every  aspect  of  re- 
ligious faith  and  practice.  Comparisons 
of  the  revealed  word  of  God  and  the 
Church  established  on  the  earth  by 
Christ  and  his  apostles  with  presently 
existing  churches  and  their  creeds  and 
organizations  and  practices  would  be 
interesting.  I  commend  to  you  this 
experience.  For  today,  let  me  center 
attention  on  one  theme  to  which  the 
clergyman's  suggestion  is  pertinent. 

It  has  been  my  blessing  for  many 
years  to  work  among  the  young  and 
among  those  who  work  with  the  young. 
Recently  it  has  been  my  especial  privi- 
lege to  labor  with  several  hundred 
choice  young  men  and  women,  serving 
as  missionaries  in  a  foreign  land.  I 
believe  I  know  better  today  than  I  have 
ever  known  in  my  life  how  substantial 
and  remarkable  and  marvelous  are  the 
blessings  of  God  to  this  Church  in  these 


days.  He  has  blessed  us  with  sub- 
stance in  a  day  when  mists  of  darkness 
shadow  the  land.  Ours  is  a  family- 
centered  religion,  our  families  are  re- 
ligion-centered, and  the  gospel  as  we 
understand  it  affects  the  total  person- 
ality and  all  of  the  aspects  of  the  life 
of  the  individual  child  of  God.  What 
do  the  young  people  need?  What  can 
we  offer  them  of  real  substance  which 
will  help  them  to  avoid  the  shadows  of 
falsehood  and  failure  and  sin  and 
sorrow? 

There  are  some  suggestions  I'd  like 
to  make,  not  to  the  young  and  not 
especially  or  at  least  uniquely  to  their 
parents,  but  to  all  of  us,  including 
parents,  who  deal  with  and  influence 
or  have  great  potential  to  influence  and 
bless  the  young. 

I  am  sure  as  I  begin,  that  we  are 
united,  you  and  I  and  all  people  of 
goodwill  and  honest  intent  throughout 
the  world,  as  to  the  objectives  we  may 
desire  for  the  young.  I  don't  know  a 
single  parent  or  other  honorable  human 
being  who  does  not  want  for  the  young 
a  decent,  constructive,  contributing, 
happy  life.  Many  of  us  would  like  to 
help  youth,  though  many  give  only  lip- 
service  to  their  need  for  help.  What 
would  we  want  for  them?  Oh,  I'd 
like  my  son  to  win  an  Olympic  event. 
This  would  delight  me,  please  me 
greatly,  make  me  proud.  I'd  like  my 
little  boy  to  be  a  fine  surgeon  or  lawyer 
or  salesman,  or  whatever  he  chooses 
to  be.  But  if  he  were  to  succeed  at  some 
significant  service  and  fail  to  be  an 
honest,  ethical,  moral,  spiritually  per- 
ceptive man,  I  would  be  a  failure  and  a 
sad  father,  in  my  own  eyes.  What  good 
people  want  for  youngsters  is  construc- 
tive, happy,  participating  lives. 

It  would  seem  likely  that  we  are 
united  also  in  our  estimate  of  their 
value  as  individual  children  of  God. 
They  are  infinitely  valuable.  Do  you 
know  the  poem 

"Nobody  knows  what  a  boy  is  worth, 
We'll  have  to  wait  and  see. 
But  every  man  in  a  noble  place 
A  boy  once  used  to  be," 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  7 

Bishop  Simpson's  allusion  to  the 
Second  World  War  brought  to  my 
mind  a  story  which  impresses  me  greatly 
as  to  the  value  of  one  individual  and 
the  impact  of  one  life  in  the  lives  of 
others. 

The  first  great  B-29  strike  on  those 
who  were  then  our  enemy,  flown  from 
a  land  base,  was  led  by  an  airplane 
named  "City  of  Los  Angeles."  (There 
had  been  previous  strikes  from  carriers, 
but  this  was  our  first  flown  from  our 
own  airfields  recovered  from  the  enemy. 
It  was  meant  to  inform  him  that  the 
war  was  now  to  be  carried  to  his  own 
homeland,  and  it  was  a  very  important 
mission.)  Aboard  the  aircraft  were 
twelve  men,  eleven  regular  crewmen 
and  a  colonel  flying  as  squadron  com- 
mander for  the  mission.  They  were  to 
reach  a  rendezvous  point  50  to  75  miles 
off  the  mainland  of  the  enemy,  then 
assume  regular  fighting  formation  and 
fly  in  on  target,  which  was  a  complex 
of  high  octane  gasoline  plants  feeding 
the  enemy  war  potential. 

Rendezvous  point  was  reached  as 
scheduled,  and  Colonel  Sprouse  ordered 
the  dropping  of  the  phosphorous  bomb 
which  was  to  mark  the  point.  Sergeant 
"Red"  Irwin  skidded  the  bomb  down 
the  chute  as  ordered.  The  act  was 
loaded  with  death.  The  flap  at  the  end 
of  the  bomb  chute  had  somehow  become 
stuck.  When  the  bomb  struck  it,  it 
exploded  prematurely  and  burst  back 
into  the  cabin  of  the  airplane  and  into 
the  face  and  chest  of  Sergeant  Irwin. 
Dropping  to  the  deck  it  began  swiftly 
to  burn  its  way  through  the  thin  metal 
flooring  separating  it  from  the  in- 
cendiary bombs  stored  in  the  bomb  bay 
below.  In  moments  the  "City  of  Los 
Angeles"  and  its  crew  would  be  blown 
to  bits  far  out  over  the  ocean  in  enemy 
territory. 

Sergeant  Irwin,  tragically  wounded, 
got  to  his  knees,  picked  up  the  bomb 
in  his  bare  hands,  cradled  it  in  his  arms, 
and  staggered  up  the  passageway.  Crash- 
ing into  the  navigator's  table,  he  had 
to  stop  and  unlatch  it  with  fingers  that 
left  burn  marks  in  the  hardwood.  By 
now  the  aircraft  was  filled  with  acrid 
fumes,  blinding  the  pilot,  and  was 
wallowing  less  than  300  feet  above  the 
water.  Irwin  staggered  into  the  pilot's 
compartment  shouting  "Window,  win- 


Third  Day 

dow."  He  could  not  see  that  it  was 
already  open,  and  his  fumbling  fingers 
left  bum  marks  on  the  metal.  He 
threw  the  bomb  out  of  the  window  and 
collapsed  to  the  deck.  Two  hours  later, 
Colonel  Sprouse  having  ordered  the 
"City  of  Los  Angeles"  back  to  base  in 
the  slim  hope  that  Irwin's  life  might 
be  saved,  they  reached  Iwo  Jima.  Irwin's 
flesh  was  still  smoking  with  imbedded 
phosphorous  when  he  was  removed 
from  the  plane  by  comrades  who  had 
to  avert  their  faces  from  his  tragic 
wounds. 

Sergeant  Irwin  lived  to  receive  his 
nation's  highest  honor  for  extreme 
bravery  and  to  survive  nearly  fifty 
plastic  surgery  operations  which  restored 
him  to  a  somewhat  normal  life.  He 
lived  to  marry  and  to  become  a  father. 
And  with  him,  there  lived  eleven  other 
men  who  but  for  his  almost  unbelievable 
courage  would  be  dead.  Eleven  men, 
spared  to  their  lives  and  work  and 
families  through  the  decision  and 
courageous  act  of  one  man!  When 
Sergeant  Irwin  picked  up  that  bomb,  he 
knew  that  it  was  burning  at  1,300  de- 
grees Fahrenheit,  1,088  degrees  hotter 
than  boiling  water! 

This  dramatic  story  came  out  of  a 
war,  but  its  implications  are  applicable 
to  each  of  us,  to  our  families,  com- 
munities, nations.  How  many  young 
people  are  there  in  your  home  or 
neighborhood,  choice  young  children 
of  God,  who  are  wanting  for  lack  of 
someone  who  has  the  courage  and  con- 
cern to  interest  himself  or  herself  in 
their  welfare?  The  prime  responsi- 
bility, of  course,  is  in  the  home,  and 
we  are  as  a  Church  and  people  anxiously 
interested  in  strengthening  our  homes 
and  families.  But  we  are  aware  that 
there  are  literally  millions  of  young- 
sters who  are  not  receiving  in  their 
homes  the  care  they  desperately  need. 
They  are  the  legitimate  concern  of  all 
of  us. 

What  can  we  do  for  them? 

I  offer  these  quick  suggestions  in 
headlines  only.  The  rest  of  the  story, 
each  of  us  may  fashion  as  we  will.  I 
believe  them  to  be  the  substance  of 
youthful  success  and  joy. 

1.  Be  concerned  with  their  welfare. 
Recognize  their  worth  and  our  potential 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


103 


to  bless  them  and  influence  them  and 
help  them  and  lift  them. 

2.  Understand  that  they  are  differ- 
ent. They  are  not  all  out  of  one  mold. 
They  are  at  varying  levels  of  spiritual 
and  social  and  intellectual  maturity, 
even  though  they  may  be  the  same  age. 
They  must  be  accepted  and  dealt  with 
as  individuals,  as  they  are,  and  in  terms 
of  what  they  can  be,  and  helped  to 
become  the  best  that  they  can  be. 

3.  They  need  to  be  taught.  They 
need  instruction.  Someone  has  said  that 
we  habitually  overestimate  their  experi- 
ence and  underestimate  their  intelli- 
gence. We  expect  them  to  act  like 
little  adults,  and  yet  we  fail  to  take  time 
and  interest  to  teach  them. 

At  a  meeting  in  England  a  few  weeks 
ago  a  little  girl,  perhaps  younger  than 
four  years  of  age,  walked  into  a  hall 
where  a  film  and  lecture  were  to  be 
presented.  I  watched  her  as  she  stepped 
daintily  over  a  moving  picture  projector 
cord.  A  man  standing  near  the  machine 
to  protect  it  from  accidental  damage  said 
to  her,  "Sweetheart,  hurry  and  sit  down. 
We're  going  to  start."  She  sat  down, 
right  there  in  the  middle  of  the  aisle, 
smiling  sweetly  at  those  around  her. 
He  picked  her  up  and  explained  that  he 
had  wanted  her  to  sit  up  in  front  on 
a  chair  and  then  escorted  her  there. 

Now,  as  the  father  of  five  children 
I  am  not  blind  to  reality.  I  know  that 
they  don't  always  do  what  we  tell  them, 
but  if  we  have  a  proper  appreciation  of 
their  value  and  of  our  ability  to  influ- 
ence them,  if  we  will  accept  them  as 
they  are  and  teach  them  in  a  spirit  of 
love,  wonderful  blessings  will  come  to 
them  and  to  us.  Let  me  add  it  as  a 
special  and  significant  point: 

4.  We  must  really  love  them.  We 
can  afford  to  make  the  mistakes  of  the 
inexpert  if  we  sincerely  love  them. 

5.  They  need  discipline.  They  need 
to  realize  that  there  are  rules,  wise 
and  fair  rules,  which  apply  to  them, 
lack  of  conformity  to  which  brings  a 
penalty. 

You  will  remember  the  wonderful 
counsel  given  by  the  Lord  to  Joseph 
Smith  in  response  to  his  anguished  cry 
from  the  dungeon  at  Liberty,  Missouri, 
where  he  had  been  cruelly  confined  for 
months,  away  from  his  friends  and  loved 
ones.   The  spirit  of  the  priesthood  was 


movingly  explained  and  direction  given 
as  to  how  it  must  be  used.  Included 
was  this  remarkable  statement:  "Re- 
proving betimes  with  sharpness,  when 
moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost;  and 
then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  in- 
crease of  love  toward  him  whom  thou 
hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be 
his  enemy; .  .  ."  (D&C  121:43.) 

Young  people  need  discipline,  admin- 
istered in  love. 

In  the  great  state  of  Vermont  a  few 
months  ago  I  faced  an  unruly  crowd  of 
choice  teenagers  brought  from  all 
regions  in  the  state.  They  had  listened 
to  good  music,  had  heard  the  mayors 
and  the  governor,  and  had  responded  to 
every  effort  with  contempt  and  dis- 
courtesy. The  person  who  introduced 
me  was  quite  apologetic.  I  think  he 
wished  that  I  would  disappear,  so  em- 
barrassing had  been  the  behavior  of  the 
young  people  to  that  moment.  I  stood 
up  and  said  something  I  hadn't  ever 
said  before  to  a  group  of  teens.  I  said, 
"I'm  sorry  that  most  of  you  didn't  hear 
the  great  talk  that  your  governor  just 
delivered.  It  was  a  wonderful  talk, 
and  you  would  have  profited  from  hear- 
ing it,  but  you  weren't  listening.  Let 
me  repeat  the  theme  of  what  your  gov- 
ernor said.  He  talked  about  'Vermont's 
Chief  Asset,  Her  Teenagers.'  I'd  like  to 
tell  you  the  truth.  I'd  like  to  tell  you 
that  I've  been  all  over  America  com- 
mending your  generation  and  expressing 
confidence  in  you,  and  tonight  you  have 
made  me  wonder.  For  the  first  time 
you've  really  made  me  wonder.  I'd  just 
like  to  tell  you  that  if  your  behavior 
tonight  is  typical,  if  you've  been  acting 
as  you  really  are,  and  if  you  are  Ver- 
mont's chief  asset,  the  Lord  help 
Vermont." 

Well,  they  listened.  I  spent  the  next 
forty-five  minutes  showing  forth  an  in- 
crease of  love  toward  them,  talking  to 
the  theme  of  "Moral  Courage."  I  did 
my  best  to  recover  from  what  might  be 
thought  a  very  strange  way  to  approach 
a  group  of  young  people.  They  didn't 
move  a  muscle.  They  listened,  and 
their  response  was  wonderful. 

When  the  meeting  was  over,  I  walked 
out  of  the  building  and  was  stopped 
on  the  path  outside  by  a  rather  grim- 
looking  group  of  handsome,  rugged 
young  men.   One  of  them  stepped  for- 


104 

Sunday,  October  7 

ward  and  said,  "Mr.  Hanks,  we  were 
very  grateful  for  your  talk  on  moral 
courage.  We  learned  a  lot.  But  we'd 
like  you  to  know  that  what  you  did 
here  tonight  was  lots  more  important 
than  anything  you  said,  and  we're  never 
going  to  forget  it." 

Young  people  need  to  be  disciplined 
in  love. 

6.  They  need  wholesome  participa- 
tion with  others. 

7.  Young  people  need  to  be  encour- 
aged to  stretch,  to  develop  their  creative 
capacities. 

8.  They  need  to  be  taught  and  given 
experience  in  the  great  religious  truths. 
Would  you  bless  youth?  Teach  them 
the  truth  about  God  and  Christ  and 
themselves.  Teach  them  that  they 
have  a  special  responsibility  toward 
God  and  all  their  fellow  men,  his  chil- 
dren. Teach  them  to  be  compassionate 
and  considerate  and  kind,  which  the' 
can  best  be  when  they  know  God  as 
their  true  Father  in  whose  image  and 
likeness  they  are  created;  when  they 
know  Christ  as  their  living  Savior; 
when  they  recognize  themselves  as 
choice,  responsible  children  of  God, 
brothers  to  all  men.  Lead  them  to 
religious  search  and  service  and  rever- 
ence.   Help  them  to  learn  the  truth. 

9.  Be  an  example  to  them  of  what 
you'd  like  them  to  be. 

I  testify  that  God  lives,  that  we  are 
his  children,  and  that  we  can  bless  each 
other  and  our  choice  young  brothers 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

and  sisters  if  we  will.  In  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy,  president  of  the 
British  Mission,  has  been  our  conclud- 
ing speaker. 

We  shall  conclude  this  sixth  session 
of  the  132nd  Semi-Annual  General  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  with  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  singing  "Hallelujah 
Chorus."  Following  the  singing  the 
benediction  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Alvin  Robert  Barlow,  president  of  the 
Gunnison  Stake.  This  conference  will 
then  be  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this 
afternoon. 

May  we  again  express  appreciation  to 
the  owners  and  managers  of  the  many 
television  and  radio  stations  who  have 
offered  their  facilities  as  a  public 
service  to  make  the  proceedings  of 
this  conference  available  to  millions 
throughout  North  America,  South  Amer- 
ica, Europe,  and  in  many  other  areas 
of  the  world  during  the  two  hours  we 
have  been  assembled  in  this  session. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  as  a  con- 
cluding number  "Hallelujah  Chorus." 

Elder  Alvin  Robert  Barlow,  president 
of  the  Gunnison  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference convened  in  the  Tabernacle  at 
2:00  p.m.,  Sunday,  October  7,  1962. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  of  the 
meeting. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the 
choral  music  for  this  session  of  the 
Conference,  with  Richard  P.  Condie 
conducting  and  Alexander  Schreiner  at 
the  organ. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

(Even  electricity  is  slow  when  you  are 
waiting — ) 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  the  seventh  and  con- 
cluding session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Thirty-Second  Semi-Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church. 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  last 


ELDER  BERNAK 

evening  was  the  fifth  session.  It  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle,  with  an  over- 
flow meeting  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
the  proceedings  of  that  meeting  were 
relayed  by  closed  circuit  wire  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Priesthood  assembled  in  338 
locations.  Elders  Harold  B.  Lee,  Mar- 
ion G.  Romney,  Richard  L.  Evans  and 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  constituting  the 
Correlation  Committee,  reported  to  that 
vast  assembly  of  Priesthood  members 
the  progress  of  the  correlation  work  to 
date. 

This  morning's  session  was  carried 
"live"  by  eighteen  television  stations 
from  Denver  to  the  West  Coast,  eighteen 
radio  stations  throughout  the  west,  and 
three  radio  stations  carried  the  program 
"live"  to  the  eastern  part  of  the  United 
States. 

You  will  be  interested,  also,  to  know 
that  this  morning's  session  was  beamed 
by  short-wave  over  the  facilities  of  sta- 
tion WRUL  of  Boston,  in  Spanish  to 
the  Caribbean,  Mexico  and  South 
America,  and  in  English  to  Europe  and 
Africa.  It  is  reported  that  we  had  a 
potential  listening  audience  during  this 
conference  of  seventy-seven  million. 

We  extend  a  hearty  welcome  to  all 
present  this  afternoon,  special  guests, 
educational  leaders,  stake  presidencies 
from  near  and  far,  temple  presidents, 
bishoprics,  members  of  General  Auxil- 
iary Boards,  members  of  the  Church 
and  friends  listening  in  by  radio  and 
television. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 


P.  BROCKBANK  105 

rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  conducting  and  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  singing,  "Lo,  My 
Shepherd  Is  Divine,"  with  Jay  E.  Welch 
directing.  The  invocation  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  Rolf  Christiansen,  presi- 
dent of  the  Granite  Park  Stake. 


The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Lo,  My 
Shepherd  Is  Divine." 

Elder  Rolf  Christiansen,  president  of 
the  Granite  Park  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Rolf  Christiansen,  president  of  the 
Granite  Park  Stake.  The  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  now  sing,  "The  Lord  Is  My 
Shepherd,"  conducted  by  Richard  P. 
Condie. 


The  Choir  then  sang  the  hymn,  "The 
Lord  Is  My  Shepherd." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Yesterday  in  Conference  assembled, 
you  sustained  Brother  Bernard  Park 
Brockbank  as  one  of  the  Assistants  to 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  We 
should  like  to  hear  a  few  words  from 
Brother  Brockbank  at  this  time.  He  is 
now  president  of  the  Scottish  Mission. 


ELDER  BERNARD  P.  BROCKBANK 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Brothers  and  sisters  and  friends,  it  is  a 
very  humbling  experience  to  stand  here 
among  you  fine  people.  There  is  a 
great  spirit  in  this  conference.  You 
make  it  rather  easy  for  someone  to  speak, 
even  though  very  timid,  because  of  the 
lovely  atmosphere  that  is  created  by 
those  seated  here. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  335  mis- 
sionaries in  Scotland,  from  almost  12,000 
Saints.  The  missionaries  and  Saints 
support  and  sustain  our  beloved  Presi- 
dent as  their  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator 
— and  as  their  leader. 


We  were  honored  recently  to  have 
President  McKay  in  Scotland.  We  had 
hoped  for  this,  and  we  were  very  blessed 
to  have  him  there. 

I  would  like  to  bear  testimony,  and 
I  would  like  to  turn  to  the  spirit  of  love 
found  in  the  Epistle  of  John,  the  beloved 
apostle: 

"This  then  is  the  message  which  we 
have  heard  of  him,  and  declare  unto 
you,  that  God  is  light,  and  in  him  is  no 
darkness  at  all."  (1  John  1:5.) 

Sometimes  we  like  to  create  a  little 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  7 

darkness  to  hide  in,  but  in  God  there  is 
no  darkness  at  all. 

"If  we  say  that  we  have  fellowship 
with  him,  and  walk  in  darkness,  we  lie, 
and  do  not  the  truth: 

"But  if  we  walk  in  the  light,  as  he  is 
in  the  light,  we  have  fellowship  one 
with  another,  and  the  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ  his  Son  cleanseth  us  from  all 
sin.  .  .  . 

"And  hereby  we  do  know  that  we 
know  him,  if  we  keep  his  command- 
ments. 

"He  that  saith,  I  know  him,  and 
keepeth  not  his  commandments,  is  a 
liar,  and  the  truth  is  not  in  him." 

Very  powerful,  yet  to  the  point  and 
needs  no  private  interpretation. 

"But  whoso  keepeth  his  word,  in  him 
verily  is  the  love  of  God  perfected: 
hereby  know  we  that  we  are  in  him. 

"He  that  saith  he  abideth  in  him 
ought  himself  also  so  to  walk,  even  as 
he  walked.  .  .  . 

"He  that  saith  he  is  in  the  light,  and 
hateth  his  brother,  is  in  darkness  even 
until  now. 

"He  that  loveth  his  brother  abideth 
in  the  light,  and  there  is  none  occasion 
of  stumbling  in  him. 

"But  he  that  hateth  his  brother  is  in 
darkness,  and  walketh  in  darkness,  and 
knoweth  not  whither  he  goeth,  because 
that  darkness  hath  blinded  his  eyes.  .  .  . 

"Beloved,  let  us  love  one  another:  for 
love  is  of  God;  and  every  one  that  loveth 
is  born  of  God,  and  knoweth  God. 

"He  that  loveth  not  knoweth  not 
God;  for  God  is  love.  .  .  . 

"And  this  commandment  have  we 
from  him,  That  he  who  loveth  God  love 
his  brother  also."  (1  John  1:6-7;  2:3-6, 
9-11;  4:7-8,  21.) 

I  would  like  to  turn  to  the  Gospel  of 
John  and  read  the  Savior's  parting  words 
prior  to  his  ascension,  wherein  he  tells 
Peter  how  he  can  show  his  love  for 
him. 

".  .  .  Jesus  saith  to  Simon  Peter, 
Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou  me 
more  than  these?  He  saith  unto  him, 
Yea,  Lord,  thou  knowest  that  I  love 
thee.  He  saith  unto  him,  Feed  my 
lambs."  (John  21:15.) 

Feed  my  children. 


Third  Day 

There  has  been  a  great  family  youth- 
parent  program,  going  forward  in  the 
mission  field. 

Peter,  if  you  love  me,  feed  my  lambs. 

"He  saith  to  him  again  the  second 
time,  Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou 
me?  He  saith  unto  him,  Yea,  Lord; 
thou  knowest  that  I  love  thee.  He  saith 
unto  him,  Feed  my  sheep."  (Ibid., 
21:16.) 

Feed  the  parents. 

"He  saith  unto  him  the  third  time, 
Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou  me? 
Peter  was  grieved  because  he  said  unto 
him  the  third  time,  Lovest  thou  me? 
And  he  said  unto  him,  Lord,  thou  know- 
est all  things;  thou  knowest  that  I  love 
thee.  Jesus  saith  unto  him,  Feed  my 
sheep."  (Ibid.,  21:17.) 

We  can  all  show  our  love  for  our 
Savior  Jesus  Christ  by  feeding  the  lambs 
and  the  sheep.  Every  member  a  mis- 
sionary! Each  member  to  bring  one  or 
more  members  into  the  Church  each 
year!  Have  you  accomplished  this  for 
this  year? 

I  pray  for  the  ability  and  inspiration  to 
serve  the  Lord  and  my  fellow  men.  I 
am  thankful  for  the  atonement  of  our 
Savior  Jesus  Christ  and  for  the  principle 
of  repentance.  Repentance  has  a  for- 
ward look,  a  new  look,  a  better  Christian 
life.  I  pray  to  live  and  practise  the 
principle  of  repentance. 

I  know  that  God  lives.  He  has  mani- 
fested himself  in  our  mission  with  his 
blessings  many  times.  We  see  the  works 
of  Satan  on  every  turn  we  make. 

With  love  in  my  heart  for  my  Heav- 
enly Father  I  desire  to  show  my  love  by 
serving  my  fellow  men. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  heard  from  President 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  recently  sustained 
as  one  of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  presently  president  of  the  Scot- 
tish Mission.  Our  next  speaker  will  be 
Elder  LeGrand  Richards,  a  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


After  telling  you  Latter-day  Saints  how 
much  I  love  you  and  how  grateful  I  am 
for  your  kindness  to  me  as  I  visit  in 
your  stakes  and  how  I  appreciate  your 
prayers  for  us  brethren  of  the  General 
Authorities,  I  want  to  say  a  few  words 
to  the  nonmembers  who  might  be 
present  here  today  in  this  great  confer- 
ence or  listening  in.  For  my  preface 
to  what  I  would  like  to  say,  I  would 
like  to  read  a  few  words  from  President 
George  Albert  Smith,  one  of  the  former 
presidents  of  the  Church.  He  said: 

"The  missionaries  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  .  .  . 
[go]  out  into  the  world — not  to  criticize 
others,  not  to  find  fault,  but  to  say  to 
our  Father's  other  children,  'keep  all  the 
good  you  have  received,  keep  all  the 
truth  that  you  have  learned,  all  that  has 
come  to  you  in  your  homes,  in  your 
institutions  of  learning,  under  your 
many  facilities  for  education,  keep  it  all; 
and  then  let  us  divide  with  you  addi- 
tional truths  that  have  been  revealed  by 
our  Heavenly  Father  in  our  day.' " 
(Conference  Report,  October  1946,  p.  5.) 

Is  not  that  a  wonderful  statement? 
And  anyone  who  is  not  a  member  of 
this  Church  and  hears  a  statement  like 
that  ought  to  want  to  know  if  we  really 
have  truths  to  divide  with  them  that 
they  know  not  of. 

I  had  a  man  sit  in  my  office  a  short 
time  ago  who  spent  thirty  years  as  a 
minister  of  the  gospel,  and  then  he  met 
our  Mormon  elders,  and  he  learned 
something  of  those  additional  truths, 
and  he  said  this  to  me: 

"When  I  think  of  how  little  I  had 
to  offer  my  people  as  a  minister  of  the 
gospel  compared  to  what  I  now  have 
in  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  as  the  Lord 
has  restored  it  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  I  want  to  go  back  and 
tell  all  my  friends  what  I  have  found. 
Now,  they  will  not  listen  to  me.  I  am 
an  apostate  from  their  church." 

That  is  what  every  honest  seeker  of 
the  truth  finds  when  he  meets  our  mis- 
sionaries and  is  willing  to  open  his  heart 
and  to  find  out  whether  we  have  some- 
thing additional  to  offer  them.  I  tell 
these  people  if  our  missionaries  would 


offer  them  a  million  dollars,  it  would 
not  be  worth  half  as  much  to  them  as 
what  they  can  bring  to  them,  that  will 
bring  them  joy  and  happiness  and  peace 
in  this  world  and  in  the  world  to  come. 

When  Nicodemus  came  to  Jesus  by 
night  and  he  said: 

".  .  .  we  know  that  thou  art  a  teacher 
come  from  God:  for  no  man  can  do 
these  miracles  that  thou  doest,  except 
God  be  with  him,"  Jesus  did  not  start 
on  a  great  oration  of  life.  He  said: 

".  .  .  Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he 
cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  God." 

And  of  course  Nicodemus  could  not 
understand  that,  and  he  said: 

".  .  .  How  can  a  man  be  born  when 
he  is  old?  .  .  ."  And  you  remember  the 
rest  of  the  story,  and  Jesus  said: 

".  .  .  Except  a  man  be  born  of  water 
and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  God."  (John  3:1-5.) 

That  is  the  foundation,  that  is  what 
Paul  meant  when  he  said  that  we  are 
buried  with  him  in  baptism,  and  as  he 
arose  to  the  glory  of  his  father,  we 
should  come  forth  and  walk  in  a  new- 
ness of  life,  knowing  this  that  our  old 
man  of  sin  is  buried  with  him.  That  is 
being  bom  again,  when  the  old  man 
of  sin  is  buried  and  we  walk  in  a  new- 
ness of  life. 

Then  Jesus  proceeded  to  say  to  Nico- 
demus, when  he  could  not  understand: 

".  .  .  Art  thou  a  master  of  Israel,  and 
knowest  not  these  things?  .  .  . 

".  .  .  We  speak  that  we  do  know,  and 
testify  that  we  have  seen;  and  ye  re- 
ceive not  our  witness." 

And  then  he  adds: 

"If  I  have  told  you  earthly  things, 
and  ye  believe  not,  how  shall  ye  be- 
lieve, if  I  tell  you  of  heavenly  things?" 
(See  Ibid.,  3:10-12.) 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony,  my 
friends,  that  we  have  many  heavenly 
things  to  tell  the  world,  if  they  just 
want  to  know  what  the  Lord  has  re- 
vealed in  this  day  in  which  we  live. 
President  Brown,  in  his  address,  called 
attention  to  one  of  our  articles  of  faith, 
which  reads: 

"We  believe  all  that  God  has  re- 
vealed, all  that  He  does  now  reveal,  and 


108 

Sunday,  October  7 

we  believe  that  He  will  yet  reveal 
many  great  and  important  things  per- 
taining to  the  Kingdom  of  God." 
(Joseph  Smith,  Ninth  Article  of  Faith.) 

In  other  words,  the  Lord  has  not  quit 
talking  to  his  people.  We  do  not  just 
believe  in  the  ancient  scripture.  We 
have  so  much  more.  No  man  can  be- 
lieve in  the  Bible  truly  without  knowing 
that  there  is  another  volume  of  scrip- 
ture, a  companion  volume  of  scripture, 
to  go  with  that  that  the  God  of  heaven 
commanded  one  of  his  prophets  should 
write,  and  he  said  he  would  bring 
it  forth,  and  he  would  put  it  with  the 
record  of  the  Jews,  and  he  would  make 
them  one  in  his  hand.  We  have  that 
other  volume  of  scripture  and  from  it 
and  the  revelations  that  have  come  in 
this  day,  for  we  believe  in  modern 
revelation,  we  learn  many  of  the  choice 
things  of  heaven  that  pertain  to  the 
heavenly  things. 

If  you  were  taking  a  child  and  en- 
rolling him  in  the  kindergarten  or  the 
grade  school,  you  would  not  expect  him 
to  understand  things  that  are  taught  in 
college.  In  that  same  sense  Jesus  in- 
vited the  people  to  be  born  again  and 
that  would  open  the  door  for  them  to 
learn  some  of  the  heavenly  things. 

In  the  few  moments  given  to  me, 
there  is  not  much  time  to  discuss  heav- 
enly things,  but  I  would  like  to  men- 
tion one  of  these  heavenly  things,  to 
me,  that  has  come  through  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel,  through  the  revela- 
tions of  the  Lord  to  his  prophets  of 
this  dispensation. 

If  I  were  to  ask  those  of  you  who  are 
Christians  what  you  love  most  in  all 
this  world,  next  to  your  love  of  God 
the  Eternal  Father,  if  you  have  Chris- 
tian principles  and  you  live  them,  you 
could  not  help  saying  that  you  love 
your  wives  and  your  children  more  than 
anything  else.  I  have  said  that  if  I  did 
not  have  an  assurance  that  God  in- 
tended that  the  companionship  of  hus- 
band and  wife  here  in  mortality  should 
be  projected  into  the  eternal  worlds,  I 
would  just  about  as  soon  believe  that 
death  would  be  a  complete  annihilation 
of  both  body  and  spirit,  but  when  the 
Lord  placed  Adam  in  the  garden  before 
death  was  known  in  the  world,  he  said 
it  was  not  good  for  man  to  be  alone, 
and  he  gave  him  a  helpmeet.   And  you 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

know  all  through  the  scriptures  and  the 
words  of  the  Savior,  we  are  told  that 
these  twain  shall  be  one  flesh.  If  Jesus 
then  really  performed  a  great  atonement 
to  restore  what  was  lost,  then  that 
means  that  in  the  great  day  of  the 
resurrection,  we  will  have  our  wives 
and  our  children. 

Isaiah  understood  that  fully  when  he 
said  he  saw  a  new  heaven  and  a  new 
earth,  and  he  tells  us  that  in  that  new 
heaven  and  new  earth,  we  should  build 
buildings  and  inhabit  them,  and  we 
should  plant  vineyards  and  eat  the  fruit 
thereof,  that  we  should  not  build  and 
another  inhabit,  nor  plant  and  another 
eat,  for  every  man  should  enjoy  the 
works  of  his  own  hands,  and  then  he 
adds: 

".  .  .  they  are  the  seed  of  the  blessed 
of  the  Lord,  and  their  offspring  with 
them."  (Isaiah  65:23.) 

I  wonder  if  anything  in  this  world 
could  be  more  important  than  to  know 
that  we  can  live  to  enjoy  the  eternal 
world  with  our  loved  ones. 

In  connection  with  that,  the  Apostle 
Paul  was  caught  up  into  the  third 
heaven  and  the  paradise  of  God,  and  he 
was  shown  things  that  it  was  not  per- 
mitted for  man  to  write,  but  he  did  say: 

".  .  .  Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear 
heard,  neither  have  entered  into  the 
heart  of  man,  the  things  which  God 
hath  prepared  for  them  that  love  him." 
(1  Cor.  2:9.) 

Would  it  not  be  wonderful  if  Paul 
could  have  told  us  what  he  saw  in  that 
third  heaven,  and  there  cannot  be  a 
third  heaven  without  a  first  and  a  sec- 
ond, and  then  there  is  paradise,  and 
there  is  hell,  and  the  Christian  world 
does  not  know  much  about  those  things. 
But  we  know  about  them  because 
the  God  of  heaven  gave  that  revelation 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  telling 
him  that  it  was  a  transcript  of  the 
records  of  the  eternal  worlds.  Now,  of 
course,  there  is  not  time  for  me  today 
to  tell  you,  but  nowhere  in  all  the 
religious  literature  can  you  read  what 
men  must  do  in  order  to  obtain  that 
glory  that  Paul  describes  like  the  sun, 
or  what  they  should  do  to  obtain  the 
glory  like  the  moon,  or  what  they 
should  do  to  obtain  the  glory  like  one 
of  the  little  stars,  and  yet  the  Lord  has 
revealed  that  in  its  fulness  through  the 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 


109 


Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  so  we  do  not 
just  travel,  we  know  how  to  travel, 
because  God  has  pointed  the  way,  and 
he  has  revealed  that  to  us  in  these 
latter  days. 

Coming  back  to  this  association  of 
loved  ones — you  remember  the  prom- 
ise made  by  Malachi  as  the  Lord  spoke 
through  him.  He  told  of  the  great  day 
of  judgment  when  the  wicked  and  all 
the  proud  and  they  that  do  wickedly 
should  be  as  stubble  and  the  day  that 
cometh  shall  burn  them  up  and  shall 
leave  them  neither  root  nor  branch, 
and  then  he  goes  on  and  says  that  be- 
fore the  coming  of  this  great  and  dread- 
ful day  of  the  Lord, 

"...  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the 
prophet  .  .  . 

"And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the 
fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  heart 
of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I 
come  and  smite  the  earth  with  a  curse." 
(See  Mai.  4:1,  5-6.) 

Just  think  of  the  consequences  if  the 
hearts  of  the  fathers  are  not  turned  to 
their  children  and  the  hearts  of  the 
children  turned  to  the  fathers,  and  no 
one  in  this  world  outside  of  this  Church 
can  tell  you  the  true  meaning  of  those 
words,  nor  would  we  be  able  to  do  so 
except  for  the  fact  that  Elijah  did  come 
and  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  in  the  Kirt- 
land  Temple,  and  he  revealed  these  great 
truths  to  them.  That  accounts  for  our 
building  these  holy  temples  all  over  the 
world,  so  that  with  the  power  of  the 
priesthood  of  God  that  has  been  re- 
stored in  our  day,  men  and  women  can 
be  sealed  together  for  time  and  for  all 
eternity  and  know  that  their  children 
shall  be  born  under  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant  and  shall  be  theirs 
throughout  the  countless  ages  of 
eternity. 


Are  not  these  the  heavenly  things? 
Surely  Isaiah  understood  that  when  he 
saw  our  day  and  said  that  it  should 
come  to  pass  in  the  last  days  that  the 
mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  should 
be  established  in  the  top  of  the  moun- 
tains and  that  all  nations  would  flow 
unto  it,  and  they  would  say: 

".  .  .  Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to 
the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house 
of  the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach 
us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his 
paths:  .  .  ."  (Isaiah  2:3.) 

Thus,  our  people  have  come  from  all 
over  the  world  to  learn  of  his  ways  in 
order  that  they  might  be  able  to  walk 
in  his  paths.  These  are  some  of  the 
heavenly  things  Jesus  must  have  had 
in  mind  when  he  said  to  Nicodemus: 

"If  I  have  told  you  earthly  things, 
and  ye  believe  not,  how  shall  ye  believe, 
if  I  tell  you  of  heavenly  things?"  (John 
3:12.) 

I  bear  my  witness  to  you,  my  brothers 
and  sisters  and  friends,  that  the  God 
of  heaven  has  revealed  many,  many 
heavenly  things  to  his  people  in  this 
day  which  we  offer  freely  to  all  the 
world,  and  we  ask  nothing  in  return 
except  that  you  might  share  with  us 
the  glorious  truths  of  the  gospel. 

I  bear  my  witness  of  the  truth  of  this 
work  and  that  we  are  being  led  by  a 
prophet  of  God  today,  and  I  do  it  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder 
LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Wil- 
liam J.  Critchlow,  Jr. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


One  of  the  most  beautiful  principles  of 
the  gospel  is  that  of  repentance.  It 
holds  out  hope  and  encouragement  to 
each  of  us,  the  descendants  of  Adam  and 
Eve.  Because  we  are  mortal  and  live 
in  a  world  where  temptations  abound, 


it  is  not  difficult  to  make  mistakes  and 
commit  errors.  Through  the  atonement 
effected  by  Jesus  Christ,  our  Savior,  we 
are  assured  that  our  errors  and  mistakes 
may  be  rectified  by  displaying  Godly 


110 

Sunday,  October  7 

sorrow  and  abandonment  of  unrighteous 
ways. 

One  of  the  most  vital  qualities  of  the 
principle  of  repentance  is  forgiveness. 
Unless  each  of  us  can  learn  to  forgive 
others  for  real  or  imagined  trespasses 
against  us,  we  cannot  properly  repent. 
Someone  has  said,  "Humanity  is  never 
so  beautiful  as  when  praying  for  for- 
giveness, or  else  forgiving  another."  The 
Savior's  teachings  to  us  are  replete  with 
admonitions  always  to  be  ready  and 
willing  to  forgive.  In  instructing  his 
disciples  to  pray,  he  suggested  they 
petition  the  Father:  "Forgive  us  our 
debts,  as  we  forgive  our  debtors." 

Then  he  counseled:  "For  if  ye  for- 
give men  their  trespasses,  your  heavenly 
Father  will  also  forgive  you:  .  .  ."  And 
he  added  a  word  of  caution,  "But  if  ye 
forgive  not  men  their  trespasses,  neither 
will  your  Father  forgive  your  trespasses." 
(Matt.  6:12,  14-15.) 

At  another  time  the  Lord  instructed: 
"Wherefore,  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye 
ought  to  forgive  one  another;  for  he 
that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his  tres- 
passes standeth  condemned  before  the 
Lord;  for  there  remaineth  in  him  the 
greater  sin. 

"I,  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I  will 
forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required  to  for- 
give all  men."  (D&C  64:9-10.) 

One  cannot  hold  grudges  and  unkind 
feelings  without  harming  himself.  He 
becomes  bitter;  his  vision  is  distorted; 
and  his  soul  becomes  cankered.  Harsh 
and  sharp  words  can  leave  a  sting  be- 
hind, a  pang  of  unhappiness  and  regret 
in  the  heart  and  conscience  of  the 
offender.  "Little,  vicious  minds  abound 
with  anger  and  revenge  and  are  in- 
capable of  feeling  the  pleasure  of  for- 
giving their  enemies,"  said  a  wise  man. 

A  person  holding  grudges  hurts  him- 
self more  than  he  does  his  enemy.  A 
prophet  has  wisely  counseled:  ".  .  .  let 
not  the  sun  go  down  on  your  wrath:" 
(Eph.  4:26.) 

To  forgive  a  person  once  or  twice  may 
not  be  too  difficult,  but  to  continue  to 
forgive  many  times  when  one  has  been 
wronged  may  become  a  real  test  of 
character.  Upon  one  occasion  when 
Jesus  was  teaching  his  disciples,  Peter 
approached  him  and  posed  this  ques- 
tion: ".  .  .  Lord,  how  oft  shall  my  brother 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

sin  against  me,  and  I  forgive  him?  till 
seven  times? 

"Jesus  saith  unto  him;  I  say  not  unto 
thee,  Until  seven  times:  but,  Until 
seventy  times  seven."  (Matt.  18:21-22.) 
By  this  declaration  we  may  be  assured 
that  the  Savior  meant  that  we  should 
forgive  without  number  or  limit. 

The  poet,  Alexander  Pope,  has  writ- 
ten: "Good  nature  and  good  sense  must 
ever  join;  to  err  is  human;  to  forgive 
divine." 

The  Lord  has  always  looked  upon  sin 
with  emphatic  disfavor  and  has  ex- 
claimed, "For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look 
upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allow- 
ance;" then  he  continues:  "Nevertheless, 
he  that  repents  and  does  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  shall  be  forgiven." 
(D&C  1:31-32.)  And  while  the  Lord 
regards  sin  with  disfavor,  nevertheless, 
he  always  displays  a  spirit  of  charity 
and  kindness  for  the  sinner. 

When  a  woman  taken  in  sin  was 
brought  before  Jesus,  he  faced  her  ac- 
cusers with  the  challenge:  "He  that  is 
without  sin  among  you,  let  him  first 
cast  a  stone  at  her."  Being  smitten  by 
their  consciences,  one  by  one  those 
guilty  hypocrites  slunk  away,  and  when 
Jesus  raised  his  head  he  asked  the 
woman:  "Woman,  where  are  those, 
thine  accusers?  hath  no  man  condemned 
thee?"  She  replied,  "No  man,  Lord." 
And  Jesus  said  unto  her,  "Neither  do  I 
condemn  thee;  go,  and  sin  no  more." 
(John  8:7,  10-11.) 

True  forgiveness  cannot  be  partial 
nor  halfhearted.  It  must  be  whole- 
hearted, genuine,  and  without  reserva- 
tion. "The  narrow  soul  knows  not  the 
godlike  glory  of  forgiving,"  one  has 
said. 

I  like  the  story  of  total  and  complete 
forgiveness  related  by  the  warden  of  a 
western  prison.  A  friend  of  his  hap- 
pened to  be  sitting  in  a  railroad  coach 
next  to  a  young  man  who  was  obviously 
depressed.  Finally,  the  young  man  re- 
vealed that  he  was  a  convict  returning 
from  a  distant  prison.  His  imprison- 
ment had  brought  shame  on  his  family, 
and  they  had  neither  visited  him  nor 
written  often.  He  hoped,  however,  that 
this  was  only  because  they  were  too 
poor  to  travel,  too  uneducated  to  write. 
He  also  hoped,  despite  the  evidence, 
that  they  had  forgiven  him. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 


Ill 


To  make  it  easy  for  them,  however, 
he  had  written  them  to  put  up  a  signal 
for  him  when  the  train  passed  their  little 
farm  on  the  outskirts  of  town.  If  his 
family  had  forgiven  him,  they  were  to 
put  up  a  white  ribbon  in  the  big  apple 
tree  near  the  tracks.  If  they  did  not 
want  him  back,  they  were  to  do  nothing, 
and  he  would  stay  on  the  train,  go  west 
and  probably  become  a  hobo.  As  the 
train  neared  his  home  his  suspense  be- 
came so  great,  he  could  not  bear  to 
look  out  of  the  window.  His  companion 
changed  places  with  him  and  said  he 
would  watch  for  the  apple  tree.  In  a 
minute,  he  put  his  hand  on  the  young 
convict's  arm.  "There  it  is,"  he  whis- 
pered, his  eyes  bright  with  sudden  tears. 
"It's  all  right.  The  whole  tree  is  white 
with  ribbons."  (Reader's  Digest,  March 
1961.) 

The  most  magnificent  lesson  ever 
taught  respecting  forgiveness  was  given 
by  the  Savior.  Jesus  was  subjected  by  his 
enemies  to  what  is  considered  to  be  the 
cruelest  and  most  horrible  form  of 
death.    Crucifixion    is  excruciatingly 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J 

Assistant  to  the  Council 

President  McKay,  brethren  and  sisters: 

Under  the  hands  of  President  McKay, 
I  was  set  apart  an  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve  and  was  charged  to  be  a  special 
witness  of  Jesus  Christ  in  all  the  world. 
These  next  few  minutes  give  me  an 
opportunity  to  be  about  the  business 
of  that  charge. 

Will  Mary,  the  mother  of  the  babe, 
Jesus,  born  in  Bethlehem  away  from 
home,  please  come  to  the  witness  stand? 

While  she  is  coming  to  the  stand,  let 
me  explain:  I  am  pretending  that  you, 
under  the  sound  of  my  voice,  are  an- 
other informal  court  of  the  people  in 
which  Jesus  is  on  trial — should  I  say  on 
trial  again  or  still  on  trial? 

In  the  minds  of  many  people,  Jesus  is 
still  on  trial.  Two-thirds  of  this  earth's 
inhabitants  are  non-Christian.  To  them, 
he  is  not  the  Son  of  God.  Among  the 
skimpy  Christian  third  are  many  who 
accept  him  merely  as  a  great  moralist, 
a  great  teacher,  a  great  spiritual  leader, 


painful,  with  the  victim  lingering  on  in 
increasing  agony  and  torture  for  hours 
or  even  days.  Yet,  in  spite  of  the 
humiliation  and  intense  pain  he  suf- 
fered on  Calvary's  cross,  Jesus,  with 
compassion,  in  Godlike  mercy,  prayed 
for  his  tormentors,  "Father,  forgive 
them;  for  they  know  not  what  they  do." 
(Luke  23:34.) 

Now,  with  the  Savior's  great  lesson 
fresh  in  our  memories,  may  each  one 
of  us  purge  from  our  hearts  any  feel- 
ing of  hatred,  envy,  or  bitterness,  so  that 
we  may  with  a  clear  conscience  and 
utmost  confidence  approach  our  Heav- 
enly Father  and  ask  for  forgiveness  of 
our  shortcomings  and  mistakes.  For 
which  I  humbly  pray,  and  bear  you  my 
testimony  that  I  know  that  the  gospel  is 
true,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 

CRITCHLOW,  JR. 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

perhaps  a  prophet.  To  them,  he  is  not 
the  Son  of  God. 

On  trial  2,000  years  ago,  Jesus  said: 
"I  am"— the  Son  of  God.  (See  Mark 
14:61-62.)  With  cries  of  "Crucify  him, 
crucify  him,"  the  earlier  court  of  the 
people — the  rabble — sealed  his  doom. 
(See  ibid.,  15:14.) 

If  Jesus  is  not  the  Son  of  God,  he  did 
blaspheme;  he  also  lied.  Why  not  com- 
pound the  charge  of  blasphemy  with 
perjury?  Add  fraud,  deceit,  or  whatever 
else  you  will,  the  truth  must  come  out, 
for  every  knee  must  bow  and  every 
tongue  confess  that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of 
God.  (See  Phil.  2:10-11.) 

Let  me  pretend  that  I  am  counsel  for 
the  defense,  calling  witnesses  to  prove — 
He  is  the  Son  of  God.  Now  please 
stretch  your  imagination  and  in  your 
mind's  eye  see  Mary  on  the  witness 
stand.  I  shall  now  address  her. 

Counsel:  Mary,  when  you  were  "...  a 
virgin,  espoused  to  .  .  .  Joseph,  of  the 
House  of  David;  .  .  ."  an  angel  came 


112 

Sunday,  October  7 

unto  you.  Will  you  please  tell  the  court 
what  the  angel  said  to  you? 

Witness:  He  said,  ".  .  .  Fear  not, 
Mary:  for  thou  hast  found  favour  with 
God. 

"And,  behold,  thou  shalt  conceive  in 
thy  womb,  and  bring  forth  a  son,  and 
shalt  call  his  name  Jesus. 

"He  shall  be  great,  and  shall  be  called 
the  Son  of  the  Highest:  .  .  ."  (See  Luke 
1:30-32.*) 

Counsel:  Thank  you,  Mary,  that  will 
be  all. 

Counsel:  My  next  witness  is  one  John, 
descriptively  cited  in  the  scriptures  as 
John  the  Baptist.  Jesus  came  to  Jordan 
to  be  baptized  by  John,  and  ".  .  .  when 
he  was  baptized;  .  .  .  the  heavens  were 
opened  unto  him,  and  he  saw  the  Spirit 
of  God  descending  like  a  dove,  and 
lighting  upon  him: 

"And  lo  a  voice  from  heaven,  saying, 
.  .  ."  John,  you  heard  the  voice.  Please 
tell  us  what  it  said. 

Witness:  I  heard  "a  voice  .  .  .  saying, 
This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am 
well  pleased."  (See  Matt.  3:13-17.) 
"And  I  saw,  and  bare  record  that  this 
is  the  Son  of  God."  (John  1:34.) 

Counsel:  My  next  witness  may  shock 
you  as  you  see  him  come  to  the  stand. 
He  ".  .  .  had  his  dwelling  among  the 
tombs;  and  no  man  could  bind  him, 
no,  not  with  chains: 

".  .  .  neither  could  any  man  tame 
him."  Unclean  spirits  possessed  him — 
spirits  which  undoubtedly  were  cast 
out  of  heaven  with  Lucifer,  for  they 
remembered  Jesus.  "But  when  he  [the 
wild  manj  saw  Jesus  afar  off,  he  ran 
and  worshipped  him, 

"And  cried  with  a  loud  voice,  and 
said,  .  .  ."  the  witness  may  now  repeat 
what  you  said. 

Witness:  I  said,  .  .  What  have  1  to 
do  with  thee,  Jesus,  thou  Son  of  the 
most  high  God?  I  adjure  thee  by  God, 
that  thou  torment  me  not."  And  Jesus 
said  to  the  spirit,  ".  .  .  Come  out  of  the 
man,  .  .  ."  and  many  devilish  spirits 
did  come  out,  "And  all  the  devils  be- 
sought him,  saying,  Send  us  into  the 
swine,  that  we  may  enter  into  them." 
(See  Mark  5:2-12.) 

Counsel:  Thank  you,  sir,  you  may 
leave  to  go  your  way. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Counsel:  Nathanael,  a  friend  of  Jesus, 
may  now  come  to  the  witness  stand.  It  is 
rumored  about,  that  one  Philip  told  you, 
Nathanael,  about  finding  down  in 
Nazareth  the  man  that  Moses  and  the 
prophets  wrote  about.  Will  you  please 
confirm  that  rumor  and  relate  your 
conversation  with  Philip? 

Witness:  I  said,  ".  .  .  Can  there  any 
good  thing  come  out  of  Nazareth?" 
Philip  answered  me  and  said,  ".  .  .  Come 
and  see."  So  I  went  to  see,  and  I  saw 
Jesus,  and  I  said  to  him,  ".  .  .  Rabbi, 
thou  art  the  Son  of  God;  thou  art  the 
King  of  Israel."  (See  John  1:45-49.) 

Counsel:  Thank  you,  Nathanael;  you 
are  excused. 

Counsel:  Another  very  close  friend  of 
Jesus  will  now  take  the  stand.  Martha, 
will  you  please  step  up?  Martha  sor- 
rowed because  Jesus  arrived  at  her  home 
too  late  to  heal  her  sick  brother, 
Lazarus,  who  died  and  was  laid  away 
before  Jesus  arrived.  Tell  us,  Martha, 
what  Jesus  said  and  did  upon  arrival. 

Witness:  He  said,  "...  I  am  the  resur- 
rection, and  the  life:  he  that  believeth 
in  me,  though  he  were  dead,  yet  shall 
he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die.  Believest  thou 
this?"  I  ".  .  .  saith  unto  him,  Yea,  Lord: 
I  believe  that  thou  art  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God,  which  should  come  into  the 
world."  Then  at  the  cave  where  Lazarus 
lay,  ".  .  .  he  cried  with  a  loud  voice, 
Lazarus,  come  forth. 

"And  he  that  was  dead  came  forth, 
.  .  ."  (John  11:25-44.) 

Counsel:  That  will  be  all,  Martha. 
You  may  step  down. 

Counsel:  To  ".  .  .  be  with  him,  and 
that  he  might  send  them  forth  to 
preach,"  Jesus  "chose"  and  "ordained" 
twelve  apostles.  (See  Mark  3:14;  Luke 
6:13.)  Three  of  these  apostles,  Peter, 
James,  and  John,  were  given  a  marvel- 
ous experience  which  made  them  very 
special  witnesses  of  the  Lord  in  his 
day — and  may  I  add,  very  special  wit- 
nesses also — this  day,  in  this  court.  Will 
the  Apostle  James  be  first — and  will 
you  please  confine  your  testimony  to 
that  marvelous  experience  on  the  "high 
mountain"  where  Jesus,  according  to 
the  record,  "was  transfigured  before" 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 


113 


you  and  John  and  Peter?  You  may 
delete  reference  to  Moses  and  Elias, 
whom  you  saw  there.  Just  tell  what 
the  voice  said  about  Jesus. 

Witness:  ".  .  .  There  was  a  cloud  that 
overshadowed"  us,  "and  a  voice  came 
out  of  the  cloud,  saying,  This  is  my  be- 
loved Son:  hear  him."  (See  Mark  9:2-7.) 

Counsel:  That  will  do,  James.  Thank 
you. 

Counsel:  Now  will  John,  the  beloved 
disciple,  please  come  forward.  While  he 
is  coming,  may  I  say  that  this  witness 
wrote  a  book  with  the  apparent  intent 
of  revealing  Jesus  to  be  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  God.  Am  I  right,  John?  Why 
did  you  write  your  book? 

Witness:  I  wrote  ".  .  .  that  ye  might 
believe  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God;  and  that  believing  ye  might 
have  life  through  his  name."  (John 
20:31.) 

Counsel:  Anything  else  you  would 
like  to  say,  John? 

Witness:  Only  this,  "For  God  so  loved 
the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begot- 
ten Son,  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him 
should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting 
life."  (John  3:16.) 

Counsel:  Thank  you,  John.  You  may 
step  down. 

Counsel:  The  tall,  rugged  man  now 
approaching  the  witness  stand  is  the 
Apostle  Peter,  a  man  of  action  and  few 
words.  His  testimony,  like  those  of  his 
associates,  James  and  John,  deserves 
profound  consideration.  When  you  hear 
it  you  will  agree,  I  am  sure.  You  may 
proceed,  Peter.  Need  I  say,  be  brief? — 
please. 

Witness:  Jesus  once  asked  his  disciples, 
saying,  ".  .  .  Whom  do  men  say  that  1 
the  Son  of  man  am? 

"And  they  said,  Some  say  that  thou  art 
John  the  Baptist:  some,  Elias;  and 
others,  Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets." 

".  .  .  But  whom  say  ye  that  I  am? 

"And  [I]  Simon  Peter  answered  and 
said,  Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God."  (See  Matt.  16:13-16.) 

Counsel:  Thank  you,  Peter.  You  are 
excused. 

Counsel:  My  next  witness  begged  for 
the  privilege  of  testifying.  He  said  that 
he  might  have  some  peace  of  mind 
were  he  accorded  the  privilege.  Will  the 


centurion  who  assisted  in  the  cruci- 
fixion of  the  Master — as  a  matter  of 
duty — and  who  "stood  over  against 
him,  saw  that  he  so  cried  out,  and 
gave  up  the  ghost,"  please  step  up  and 
repeat  what  you  said  when  the  Lord 
did  give  "up  the  ghost." 

Witness:  I  said,  "Truly  this  man  was 
the  Son  of  God."  (See  Mark  15:39.) 

Counsel:  Thank  you,  Centurion.  May 
God  grant  you  peace  of  mind. 

Counsel:  From  another  quarter,  I 
bring  one  more  ancient  witness — sorry 
time  will  only  permit  one.  This  witness 
is  Nephi,  a  disciple  of  the  Lord  on  the 
American  continent  among  the  Nephites 
and  Lamanites.  Nephi,  like  the  Apostle 
John,  also  wrote  a  book  to  show  that 
Jesus  was  the  Son  of  God.  He  witnessed 
the  appearance  of  our  Lord  upon  the 
American  continent  after  his  resurrec- 
tion, and  he  will  now  give  a  brief 
recital  of  that  wonderful  event. 

Witness:  I  ".  .  .  heard  a  voice  as  if  it 
came  out  of  heaven;  ...  it  was  not  a 
harsh  voice,  neither  was  it  a  loud 
voice;  .  .  . 

".  .  .  and  it  said  .  .  . 

"Behold  my  Beloved  Son, ...  in  whom 
I  have  glorified  my  name — hear  ye  him." 
(See  3  Nephi  11:3-7.)  I  also  heard 
Jesus  say,  "Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ 
the  Son  of  God.  I  created  the  heavens 
and  the  earth,  and  all  things  that  in 
them  are.  I  was  with  the  Father  from 
the  beginning.  .  .  ."  (3  Nephi  9:15.) 

Counsel:  From  still  another  quarter 
and  from  a  much  later  time,  I  shall 
produce  two  very  important  witnesses. 
Sidney  Rigdon,  will  you  be  first,  and 
will  you  please  relate  the  marvelous 
experience  you  had  on  February  16, 
1832?  Proceed  with  brevity,  please. 

Witness:  ".  .  .  while  we  were  doing 
the  work  of  translation,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  the  Lord  touched  the  eyes  of 
our  understandings  and  they  were 
opened,  .  .  . 

"And  we  beheld  the  glory  of  the  Son, 
on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Father—"  (See  D&C 
76:15-23.) 

Counsel:  That  will  do,  Mr.  Rigdon. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


114 

Sunday,  October  7 

Counsel:  Will  he  who  shared  this 
marvelous  experience  with  you  please 
take  the  stand.  It  is  with  great  pleasure 
that  I  present  to  the  court  the  great 
American  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who 
went  to  the  Lord  in  prayer  and  asked, . .  . 
President  Smith,  this  is  your  story;  please 
take  over  and  be  brief. 

Witness:  "My  object  in  going  to  in- 
quire of  the  Lord  was  to  know  which  of 
all  the  sects  was  right,  .  .  . 

"I  kneeled  down  and  began  to  offer 
up  the  desire  of  my  heart  to  God.  .  .  . 

"I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly  over 
my  head,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  When  the  light  rested  upon  me 
I  saw  two  Personages,  whose  brightness 
and  glory  defy  all  description,  .  .  .  One 
of  them  spake  unto  me,  .  .  .  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other — This  is  My  Be- 
loved Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Joseph  Smith 
2:14-18.) 

Counsel:  That  will  be  all,  President 
Smith.  Now,  if  you  will  step  down,  I 
will  take  your  place  and  bear  my 
humble  witness: 

To  whom  it  may  concern — and  may 
it  concern  men  everywhere: 

Unlike  the  Prophet  Joseph,  I  have 
never  had  the  heavens  opened  to  me 
nor  have  I  in  this  mortal  sphere,  ever 
physically  walked  and  talked  with 
Jesus,  yet  I  know  that  he  is  the  Christ — 
the  Son  of  God,  and  I  know  this  because 
of  the  ministration  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
unto  me. 

Now,  may  it  please  the  Court,  I  rest 
my  case.  I  have  submitted  twelve  solid 
witnesses — all  that  my  limited  time  will 
permit.  If,  after  hearing  their  testimonies, 
there  are  those  who  are  still  reluctant 
to  accept  Jesus  as  the  Son  of  God  and 
who  still  prefer  to  accept  his  teachings 
as  man-made  philosophy  rather  than 
God's  truth — they  would  do  well  to 


Third  Day 

ponder  studiously  the  foregoing  testi- 
monies. 

In  early  Israel,  Moses  established 
under  God,  a  law  of  witnesses,  namely: 

"In  the  mouth  of  two  or  three  wit- 
nesses shall  every  word  be  established." 
(See  Deut.  17:6.)  This  became  the 
Jewish  law  in  the  days  of  our  Lord. 
(2  Cor.  13:1.) 

The  early  Common  Law  of  England, 
after  which  our  law  is  patterned,  re- 
quired twelve  witnesses  to  the  fact;  also 
twelve  jurors  to  the  fact,  and  these  jurors 
were  supposed  to  know  something  about 
the  case. 

I  have  given  you  twelve  witnesses.  If 
you  will  accept  them  also  as  jurors,  the 
verdict  is  plain- — Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son 
of  God. 

Yes,  he  truly  is — and  in  his  name  I 
rest  my  case.  In  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve. 

The  Choir  and  Congregation  will 
now  sing  "High  On  The  Mountain 
Top,"  conducted  by  Elder  Jay  E.  Welch. 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Alma  Sonne 
will  speak  to  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "High  On  The 
Mountain  Top." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us.  He  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  EIRay  L. 
Christiansen. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  an  in-  this  country  but  also  in  Canada  and 

terest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  during  across  the  seas.    I  am  sure  I  speak  for 

the  few  minutes  I  stand  here.  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve  when  I 

Yesterday  in  conference  we  sustained  welcome    into   their    ranks  President 

a  great  man  to  the  holy  apostleship,  a  Brockbank,  a  devoted  servant,  a  great 

man  who  has  proved  his  worthiness  and  missionary,  and  one  qualified  to  carry 

demonstrated  his  leadership  not  only  in  forward  the  work  of  the  Lord. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


115 


It  occurs  to  me  that  in  view  of  all 
that  has  been  said  of  the  growth  and 
the  expansion  of  God's  work,  it  is  well 
to  hark  back  to  the  beginning,  to  get  our 
bearings  and  better  to  appreciate  and 
appraise  our  achievements. 

The  Church  was  organized  on  April 
6,  1830,  at  Fayette,  New  York,  with  six 
members;  their  names:  Joseph  Smith, 
Jun.,  Oliver  Cowdery,  Hyrum  Smith, 
Peter  Whitmer,  Jun.,  Samuel  H.  Smith, 
and  David  Whitmer;  all  of  them  died 
in  the  Church  except  David  Whitmer. 
The  Church  moved  forward  too  rapidly 
for  David  Whitmer,  and  he  was  left 
behind. 

On  the  9th  of  June  1830,  the  first 
conference  of  the  Church  was  held.  At 
that  early  day  there  were  seven  ordained 
elders,  three  priests,  two  teachers  in  the 
Church.  The  membership  was  twenty- 
seven.  Oliver  Cowdery  was  appointed 
to  keep  the  records  of  the  Church. 

The  second  conference  of  the  Church 
was  held  on  September  26,  1830,  some 
three  months  later.  David  Whitmer 
was  appointed  to  keep  the  records  and 
the  minutes.  The  membership  then 
was  sixty-two.  The  Latter-day  Saints 
have  always  been  a  record-keeping  and 
a  history-making  people. 

The  first  bishopric  of  the  Church  was 
Edward  Partridge  and  John  Corrill  and 
Isaac  Morley. 

From  then  on,  through  many  years 
the  Church  grew  rapidly  in  power  and 
strength;  trials,  apostasies,  hardships 
were  numerous.  The  weak  were  elimi- 
nated through  this  process,  and  strong 
men  became  the  pillars  and  the  leaders. 
Someone  has  said,  "The  future  of  the 
forest  is  the  acorn."  Certainly  so  far  as 
the  Church  is  concerned,  this  was  a 
humble  beginning.  Sidney  Rigdon  and 
Frederick  G.  Williams  were  set  apart 
as  counselors  to  President  Joseph  Smith 
on  March  18,  1833. 

In  October  of  that  year,  Oliver 
Cowdery  also  became  associated  with 
the  First  Presidency.  The  first  apostles 
and  seventies  were  ordained  in  Kirt- 
land  in  February  1835.  The  priesthood 
of  the  Church  consisted  of  two  humble 
elders  on  April  6,  1830,  the  date  of  its 
organization. 

The  growth  of  the  Church  has  been 
marvelous,  if  not  spectacular.  The  first 
mission  outside  of  the  United  States  and 


Canada  to  be  opened  was  in  England, 
Lancershire,  in  1837,  headed  by  President 
Heber  C.  Kimball;  associated  with  him 
were  seven  others.  From  there  the  work 
spread  to  Ireland,  Scotland,  and  Wales, 
and  from  there  to  Australia,  South  Amer- 
ica, and  East  India. 

In  1841,  in  the  face  of  great  hardship, 
Orson  Hyde,  an  apostle  of  the  Lord  went 
to  Jerusalem  and  dedicated  the  Holy 
Land  for  the  return  of  the  Jews.  His 
prayer  is  a  fervent  appeal  to  God  and  a 
solemn  dedication  of  that  land  for  the 
purpose  foretold  by  holy  prophets.  These 
prophecies,  brethren  and  sisters,  are 
being  fulfilled,  and  the  Jews  are  return- 
ing to  the  land  of  promise. 

There  was  no  delay  in  opening  the 
way  for  the  gospel  message  to  the  na- 
tions. Without  money  and  worldly  in- 
fluence the  work  was  established  with 
a  determination  and  a  steadfastness 
seldom  witnessed. 

In  1850,  Erastus  Snow  and  Peter  O. 
Hansen  arrived  in  Denmark,  John  E. 
Forsgren  in  Sweden,  Lorenzo  Snow  and 
Joseph  Toronto  in  Italy,  and  Thomas 
B.  H.  Stenhouse  in  Switzerland,  and 
George  Q.  Cannon  in  the  Hawaiian  Is- 
lands. About  the  same  time  the  gospel 
was  carried  to  India,  then  to  China, 
Siam,  Africa,  Prussia,  Gibraltar,  the 
West  Indies,  and  Norway;  a  little  later 
to  New  Zealand,  and  in  1876  to  Mexico, 
the  republic  on  the  south  of  us. 

During  these  years  the  pioneer  venture 
was  proceeding  in  the  intermountain 
west.  Men  of  leadership  and  quality 
were  needed  there.  The  pioneer  venture 
was  a  gigantic  task,  a  stupendous  under- 
taking, a  challenge  to  a  persecuted  and 
driven  people,  but  the  pioneer  move- 
ment was  not  a  failure.  It  was  gloriously 
and  wondrously  successful,  and  it  is  so 
acknowledged  throughout  the  world  by 
the  historians. 

I  ask  you  the  question,  "Has  the  Lord 
blessed  his  people?  Has  the  coloniza- 
tion effort  any  parallel  in  history?  Does 
it  look  like  failure?" 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  gospel 
message  will  continue  to  go  forward  to 
the  world  until  all  nations  shall  be  ad- 
vised of  the  restoration  which  has  come 
through  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet. 

I  testify  that  God's  work  will  go  on, 
and  it  will  eventually  fill  the  whole 
earth,  for  which  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay:  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us.  Elder 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  also  an  Assistant 
Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the     to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next  speaker. 


ELDER  EL  RAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  I  con- 
cur in  all  that  has  been  said  today  by 
those  who  have  spoken  from  this  stand 
and  heartily  approve  the  actions  that 
have  been  taken  in  sustaining  these 
brethren  in  their  positions. 

Under  the  direction  of  the  First 
Presidency,  I  have,  since  my  appoint- 
ment to  the  temples  ten  months  ago, 
visited  all  of  the  temples  in  the  Church, 
some  of  them  several  times.  Meetings 
have  been  held  with  the  temple  officials 
and  with  the  workers  in  which  we  dis- 
cussed ways  and  means  by  which  we  may 
improve  and  better  the  conditions  in  the 
temples,  beginning  at  the  entrance,  so 
that  the  work  as  a  whole,  which  is  car- 
ried on  there,  the  higher  ordinances  of 
the  priesthood,  will  be  approved  by  the 
Lord,  for  they  are  indeed  his  holy 
houses.  We  desire  to  conduct  the 
sacred  work  in  a  manner  that  is  en- 
lightening, edifying,  and  uplifting  to 
the  young  people  and  others  who  come 
to  these  holy  places  for  their  own  bless- 
ings, endowments,  and  sealings. 

We  desire  to  carry  on  the  work  in  a 
manner  in  which  it  will  be  more  re- 
warding to  those  who  come  on  behalf 
of  those  who  have  passed  away,  even  in 
a  manner  that  will  bring  comfort  and 
assurance  to  those  who  come  with 
heavy  hearts.  A  constant  need  for  main- 
taining greater  reverence  and  kindness 
is  recognized.  I  am  pleased  to  find  that 
the  temples  themselves  are  immaculately 
kept  and  well  maintained.  Among  the 
ordinance  workers  I  find  devotion  to 
duty  that  is  seldom  matched.  I  have 
often  said  that  I  have  never  seen  a  dem- 
onstration quite  so  wonderful  as  that 
which  is  shown  by  those  who  come  as 
ordinance  workers  day  after  day,  week 
after  week,  year  after  year,  seldom  if 
ever  failing  to  meet  their  appointments, 
laboring  and  attending  to  the  needs  of 
those  who  enter  those  holy  places. 

The  desire  and  willingness  on  the 
part  of  temple  presidents,  their  asso- 


ciates, and  the  workers  to  join  in  a 
united  effort  better  to  co-ordinate  and 
improve  the  work  is  gratifying  indeed. 
But  there  is  much  to  be  accomplished 
and  much  to  be  hoped  for. 

Many  of  our  members,  I  find,  are 
coming  to  the  temples  under  difficulty, 
especially  in  foreign  lands,  making  sac- 
rifices, financial  and  otherwise,  in  order 
to  bless  and  to  be  blessed.  Yet,  because 
of  these  extreme  efforts  they  are  per- 
haps the  happiest  of  all. 

Picture,  if  you  will,  a  large  group  from 
Tonga,  fathers  and  mothers  with  their 
children  selling  practically  all  that  they 
possess,  their  furniture,  their  animals, 
their  vehicles,  some  of  their  personal 
items,  all  except  their  modest  homes,  in 
order  to  provide  funds  for  the  trip  of 
over  1,000  miles  by  slow  boat  requiring 
three  weeks  of  travel,  to  receive  their 
blessings.  And  then  these  wonderful 
people  remaining  at  the  temple  for  three 
weeks  in  order  to  extend  the  same  gifts, 
powers,  and  blessings  to  others.  I  have 
never  met  yet  such  a  happy  and  de- 
lighted group. 

The  elders  quorum  from  the  Hamburg 
Stake  goes  to  the  temple  once  every 
three  months.  A  group  from  Berlin 
Stake  spent  three  weeks  attending  every 
session,  using  their  precious  vacation 
time  and  money  to  do  it.  Each  of  these 
two  groups  has  performed  ordinances, 
the  endowment,  for  nearly  400  people. 
From  Norway,  from  Finland,  from  Den- 
mark, Sweden,  and  Mexico,  Canada, 
here  at  home  and  everywhere,  it  is  the 
same.  They  whose  hearts  are  turned 
to  their  fathers  go  to  their  temples  re- 
gardless of  the  difficulty.  An  almost 
endless  number  of  stories  could  be  told, 
giving  evidence  of  appreciation  for  the 
temple  ordinances,  but  time  does  not 
permit. 

Those  here  and  in  every  area  whose 
souls  reach  out  on  behalf  of  others, 
who  cannot  help  themselves,  surely  are 
applying  in  their  lives  the  second  great 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


117 


commandment  in  which  we  are  told  to 
love  our  neighbor  as  ourselves.  The 
effort  and  the  accomplishment  of  many 
individuals  in  genealogical  research  and 
temple  work  is  commendable,  but  it  is 
evident  that  only  a  small  percentage  of 
the  membership  is  actively  participating 
in  the  two-phase  work.  They  realize  that 
redemption  of  the  dead  is  of  primary 
importance  rather  than  of  secondary 
importance,  and  they  do  something 
about  it!  Vicarious  work  is  a  founda- 
tion stone  of  the  gospel.  There  is  no 
full  salvation  for  the  living  without  vi- 
carious service;  we  would  not  be  suffi- 
ciently qualified  and  prepared  for  that 
salvation. 

If  there  had  not  been  that  unmatched 
love  of  the  Father  to  sacrifice  his  Son 
for  us,  painful  as  the  decision  must 
have  been  to  our  Father,  and  if  Jesus 
had  not  been  willing,  there  would  have 
been  for  us  no  salvation  from  death.  We 
would  have  been  subjected  to  Satan,  and 
our  bodies  would  have  remained  in  our 
graves  forever.  And  yet,  we  may  without 
great  inconvenience,  and  in  an  atmos- 
phere of  peace,  act  in  a  vicarious  way  on 
behalf  of  others  to  prepare  them  to  re- 
ceive the  greatest  gift  of  all — eternal  life. 

May  I  ask  you  two  golden  questions? 
What  do  you  know  about  your  pro- 
genitors? What  have  you  done  in  their 
behalf?  (Note  that  I  have  borrowed  that 
from  the  missionaries.)  Even  with  these 
marvelous  electronic  machines  that  are 
coming  into  use  now,  there  still  is  a 
need  for  research  on  the  part  of  indi- 
viduals and  by  groups  in  order  that 
these  machines  may  be  fed.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  gave  us  this  warning. 

"The  Saints  have  not  too  much  time 
to  save  and  redeem  their  dead,  and 
gather  together  their  living  relatives, 
that  they  may  be  saved  also,  before  the 
earth  be  smitten,  and  the  consumption 
decreed  by  the  Lord  falls  upon  the 
world  "  (DHC,  Vol.  VI,  p.  184.) 

As  I  visit  the  temples,  I  find  that  the 
attendance  at  some  of  them  is  commend- 
able, in  others  it  is  improving,  and  some 
of  them,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  are 
far  from  being  fully  utilized,  not  because 
of  a  scarcity  of  names,  but,  if  I  may 
say  so,  I  think  perhaps  it  may  lie  in  the 
leadership  back  along  the  line  who  are 
so  involved  in  other  things  that  they 
do  not  stimulate  and  motivate  their 


people  and  organize  them  so  that  they 
may  consistently  attend  to  this  indis- 
pensable part  of  the  Lord's  work.  Con- 
sider that  Elijah  appeared,  in  person,  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  and  said  this: 

"Behold,  the  time  has  fully  come, 
which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth  of 
Malachi — testifying  that  he  [Elijah] 
should  be  sent,  before  the  great  and 
dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  come — 

"To  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to 
the  children,  and  the  children  to  the 
fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten 
with  a  curse — 

"Therefore,  the  keys  of  this  dispensa- 
tion are  committed  into  your  hands; 
and  by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  is  near, 
even  at  the  doors.  (D&C  110:14-16.) 

These  keys  and  powers  have  been 
given  to  each  succeeding  President  of 
the  Church,  and  today  they  are  held  by 
President  David  O.  McKay.  This  being 
true,  each  member  of  the  Church  has  the 
inescapable  obligation  to  see  to  it  that: 

1.  He  and  his  companion  and  their 
children  are  sealed  at  the  altar  for 
eternity.  Every  man  should  consider  this 
his  first  duty.  He  who  knowingly  and 
without  sufficient  reason  neglects  to  bind 
his  loved  ones  as  his  own,  will  doubtless 
have  no  claim  upon  them  after  this  life. 
Salvation  for  the  dead  is  for  those  who 
die  without  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel, 
so  far  as  the  glory  of  the  celestial  world 
(which  is  the  family  world)  is  con- 
cerned. Families,  united  eternally,  are 
the  primary  purpose  of  all  life. 

2.  It  is  the  duty  of  every  man  to  see 
to  it  that  the  records  of  his  progenitors 
are  obtained,  and 

3.  To  see  to  it  that  the  ordinances 
necessary  for  salvation  and  exaltation 
are  administered  in  behalf  of  his 
kindred  dead. 

Research  and  temple  work  are  pri- 
marily the  work  of  the  priesthood;  but 
thank  goodness  for  the  help  the  sisters 
give. 

From  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
down  to  the  present  time,  each  of  the 
Presidents  has  charged  the  leaders  of 
stakes  and  of  missions  and  quorum  presi- 
dencies to  lead  out  and  stimulate  others 
in  this  vicarious  service. 

These  obligations  cannot  be  brushed 
aside.  For  ".  .  .  as  Paul  says  concerning 
the  fathers — that  they  without  us  can- 


118 

Sunday,  October  7 

not  be  made  perfect — neither  can  we 
without  our  dead  be  made  perfect." 
(D&G  128:15.) 

I  repeat  an  appeal  made  in  these 
words  by  President  David  O.  McKay: 

"May  all  who  hold  the  priesthood 
sense  more  fully  the  spirit  of  Elijah  and 
comprehend  more  clearly  the  necessity 
of  giving  to  all  who  have  gone  beyond 
the  veil  the  privilege  of  enjoying  the 
blessings  that  follow  compliance  with 
the  principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
everlasting  gospel;  that  some  day  all 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

mankind,  judged  by  the  acts  done  in 
mortality,  may  receive  their  merited 
rewards,  and  those  who  are  worthy  be 
saved,  sanctified,  and  glorified."  (The 
Improvement  Era,  p.  603,  August  1959.) 

May  it  be  so,  I  pray,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  and  I  testify  to  you  that  this  is 
not  the  work  of  man  but  the  work  of 
God,  and  it  is  an  integral  part  of  his 
plan  and  his  gospel  to  save  the  dead 
with  the  living.  May  he  bless  us  in 
this  respect,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


We  are  now  nearing  the  close  of  a  very 
remarkable  conference,  unusual  in  many 
respects.  This  conference  has  been  di- 
rected primarily  to  an  unseen  audience, 
particularly  yesterday  morning  and  this 
Sunday  morning. 

Usually  we  speak  mainly  to  those 
who  are  assembled  in  this  great  Taber- 
nacle, but  each  speaker  yesterday  and 
today  has  been  conscious  of  a  listening 
audience  that  goes  beyond  this  Taber- 
nacle and  this  city,  this  Church,  this 
country,  into  Europe,  the  South  Seas, 
South  Africa — and  all  this  has  been 
possible  through  the  kindness  of  our 
television  and  radio  officials — Brother 
Arch  Madsen  and  his  associates  here  at 
KSL,  and  through  assistants  and  asso- 
ciates with  him,  and  other  leading  offi- 
cials, who  are  co-operating  in  efforts  to 
bring  this  gospel  to  the  people  of  the 
world. 

I  wish  to  express  appreciation  to 
Brother  James  O.  Conkling,  who  has 
just  been  appointed  President  of  the 
International  Educational  Broadcasting 
Corporation.  We  asked  him  to  take 
charge  of  a  group  of  leading,  influential 
men  to  bring  into  operation  short-wave 
facilities  by  which  conferences  and  other 
programs,  with  the  assistance  of  our 
own  Tabernacle  Choir,  originating  here 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  could  be  transmitted 
across  the  waters.  We  wish  to  acknowl- 
edge in  your  presence  today  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Lord  upon  these  leading  men 
in  the  Church,  and  many  of  whom  are 
not  in  the  Church,  who  are  giving  their 
time  and  means  towards  the  accom- 
plishment of  this  great  possibility  of 
carrying  the  message  of  the  restored 


gospel  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue, 
and  people. 

This  has  been  one  of  the  greatest 
conferences,  I  suppose,  that  we  have 
ever  held  in  the  Church.  The  music 
today,  as  you  know,  has  been  furnished 
by  the  Tabernacle  Choir.  We  have 
been  inspired  by  their  singing  at  both 
sessions  today  and  Saturday  morning 
when  their  singing  was  heard  by  mil- 
lions. Many  radio  and  television  sta- 
tions have  been  opened  to  us  because 
of  the  singing  of  this  great  organization. 
Their  contribution  to  our  missionary 
work  is  inestimable. 

In  July  of  this  year,  they  participated 
in  the  first  formal  world-wide  television 
program  by  way  of  Telstar  satellite, 
held  at  Mount  Rushmore  in  the  Black 
Hills  of  South  Dakota.  At  this  time, 
the  choir  was  seen  and  heard  on  tele- 
vision by  millions  across  the  ocean  in 
Europe  and  England  in  addition  to  the 
millions  in  this  country. 

In  August  they  made  a  tour  of  the 
Northwest,  giving  two  concerts  on 
August  15th  and  16th  at  the  Seattle 
World's  Fair.  People  from  all  over 
the  world  attended  these  concerts,  and 
it  was  reported  that  the  concert  hall 
was  so  crowded  on  both  nights  that 
many  were  turned  away. 

We  appreciate  all  who  have  fur- 
nished the  singing  throughout  this 
conference.  First,  the  singing  for  the 
Friday  morning  and  afternoon  sessions 
by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  Central  Idaho  and  Bannock 
welfare  regions.  We  accept  their  efforts 
and  are  inspired  by  their  singing,  but 
very  few  of  us  ever  stop  to  think  of 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


119 


what  those  sisters  did  and  the  valuable 
services  rendered  by  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen  in  training  them  in 
such  an  excellent  way. 

Then  we  had  the  music  furnished  on 
Saturday  afternoon  by  the  Combined 
Choirs  of  Brigham  Young  University, 
assisted  by  the  Brass  Choir.  The  Male 
Chorus  and  the  combined  male  sections 
of  Brigham  Young  University  furnished 
the  music  for  the  general  priesthood 
meeting  Saturday  evening. 

For  you,  I  express  appreciation  and 
gratitude  to  all  who  have  in  any  way 
contributed  to  the  success  and  inspira- 
tion of  this  great  conference:  First,  to 
the  General  Authorities,  we  express 
deep  appreciation  for  their  inspired  mes- 
sages; to  the  public  press —  the  reporters 
for  their  fair  and  accurate  reports 
throughout  the  sessions  of  the  confer- 
ence; for  the  co-operation  of  city  offi- 
cials— the  city  traffic  officers  who 
handled  carefully  and  ably  the  increased 
traffic;  the  fire  department  and  the  Red 
Cross,  who  have  been  on  hand  to  render 
assistance  and  service  whenever  and 
wherever  such  became  necessary;  the 
Tabernacle  ushers,  who  have  rendered 
service  quietly,  courteously,  and  effi- 
ciently in  seating  the  great  audiences 
of  these  conference  sessions. 

I  wish  that  you  brethren  could  leave 
this  closing  session  of  our  semiannual 
general  conference  with  your  hearts  re- 
newed with  a  firm  desire  to  render 
service  to  your  fellow  men  and  to  act 
in  efficiency  and  prayerfulness  in  ren- 
dering service  to  those  over  whom  you 
preside  directly. 

It  has  been  said  that  "the  race  of 
mankind  would  perish  if  they  ceased  to 
aid  one  another."  One  man,  from  whom 
I  quote,  says  that  "from  the  time  that 
the  mother  binds  the  child's  head  until 
the  moment  that  some  kind  assistant 
wipes  the  death-damp  from  the  brow 
of  the  dying,  we  cannot  exist  without 
mutual  help.  All,  therefore,  that  need 
aid  have  a  right  to  ask  it  from  their 
fellow  mortals;  no  one  who  holds  the 
power  of  granting  can  refuse  it  with- 
out guilt." 

The  Church,  with  all  its  quorums  and 
organizations,  is  God's  plan  for  render- 
ing mutual  aid.  The  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  is  power  and  authority 
vested  in  the  Godhead  and  delegated 


to  man  for  the  progress,  happiness, 
salvation,  and  exaltation  of  the  human 
family.  It  is  a  principle  of  power  by 
which  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
organized  and  by  which  men  to  whom 
it  is  given  may  legitimately  act  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord. 

There  are  two  conditions  which 
should  always  be  considered  when  the 
priesthood  is  to  be  given  to  anyone. 
The  first  of  these  is  the  individual's 
worthiness  to  receive  it.  The  second  is 
the  service  which  he  can  render  to  the 
Church  and  to  his  fellow  men. 

Men  who  are  vessels  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  who  are  charged  with  words 
of  eternal  life  to  the  world,  should  strive 
continually  in  their  words  and  actions 
and  daily  deportment  to  do  honor  to  the 
great  dignity  of  their  calling  and  office 
as  ministers  and  representatives  of  the 
Most  High. 

Whenever  the  priesthood  is  delegated 
to  man,  it  is  conferred  upon  him,  not  as 
a  personal  honor,  although  it  becomes 
such  as  he  honors  it,  but  as  authority 
to  represent  Deity,  and  an  obligation  to 
assist  the  Lord  in  bringing  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man. 

If  priesthood  meant  only  personal 
distinction  or  individual  elevation,  there 
would  be  no  need  of  groups  or  quorums. 
The  very  existence  of  such  groups,  estab- 
lished by  divine  authorization,  proclaims 
our  dependence  upon  one  another,  the 
indispensable  need  of  mutual  help  and 
assistance.  We  are  social  beings. 

"There  is  a  destiny  which  makes  us 
brothers, 
None  lives  to  himself  alone; 
All  that  we  give  into  the  lives  of  others, 
Comes  back  into  our  own." 

(Edward  Markham) 

This  element  of  service  and  mutual 
help  is  emphasized  by  the  Lord  as 
follows: 

"Wherefore,  be  faithful;  stand  in  the 
office  which  I  have  appointed  unto  you; 
succor  the  weak,  lift  up  the  hands 
which  hang  down,  and  strengthen  the 
feeble  knees."  So  says  the  Lord  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  eighty- 
one,  verse  five. 

And  again: 

"And  if  any  man  among  you  be 
strong  in  the  Spirit,  let  him  take  with 


120  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  7 

him  him  that  is  weak,  that  he  may  he 
edified  in  all  meekness,  that  he  may 
become  strong  also."  (Ibid.,  84:106.) 

It  is  an  honor  to  labor  with  you, 
brethren  and  sisters,  throughout  the 
entire  Church.  God  bless  you  that  you 
may  realize  the  blessings  that  are  yours 
through  the  revelation  and  restoration  in 
this  day  and  age  of  the  world  of  the 
priesthood  of  God,  which  gives  you 
authority  to  represent  him  in  proclaim- 
ing the  reality  of  the  existence  of  the 
Father  and  his  Beloved  Son  Jesus  Christ, 
and  the  restoration  in  this  day  of  the 
gospel  as  given  through  Christ  the  Lord 
as  the  plan  of  salvation  to  all  mankind, 
through  obedience  to  which  peace  shall 
be  established  on  earth,  and  the  will  of 
God  carried  forth  to  the  salvation  and 
exaltation  of  his  children. 

With  all  the  power  the  Lord  has  given 
his  servants,  I  bless  you,  and  pray  that 
you  will  go  forth  with  the  spirit  of 
service,  honoring  his  name  now  and 
forever,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  sing 
"Glorious  Everlasting,"  and  the  benedic- 
tion will  be  offered  by  Elder  William 
Lemuel  Nicholls,  president  of  the 
Atlanta  Stake,  and  this  Conference  will 
be  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Glorious 
Everlasting." 
President  William  L.  Nicholls  of  the 


Third  Day 

Atlanta  Stake  offered  the  benediction. 
Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
of  the  Central  Idaho  and  Bannock  Wel- 
fare Regions  furnished  the  musical 
numbers  for  the  Friday  morning  and 
afternoon  sessions.  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen  conducted  the  singing. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  Richard  P. 
Condie,  Conductor,  assisted  by  Jay  E. 
Welch,  Assistant  Tabernacle  Choir 
Conductor,  furnished  the  music  for  the 
Saturday  morning  session,  and  also 
the  Sunday  morning  and  afternoon 
meetings. 

At  the  Saturday  afternoon  session  The 
Combined  Choirs  of  the  Brigham  Young 
University,  assisted  by  the  Brass  Choir, 
furnished  the  musical  numbers.  John 
R.  Halliday  conducted. 

The  special  music  for  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  Saturday  evening 
was  furnished  by  the  Male  Chorus  and 
the  Combined  Male  Sections  of  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Choruses, 
Kurt  Weinzinger,  conductor. 

Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the 
singing  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  on  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast 
Sunday  morning. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  Organ  were  played  by  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Roy  M. 
Darley.  Alexander  Schreiner  was  the 
organist  at  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast. 

Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


SALT  LAKE  MORMON  TABERNACLE  CHOIR 
AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  was  presented  from  8:35  to 
9:00  a.m.  Sunday,  October  7,  1962, 
through  the  courtesy  of  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada, 
and  through  other  facilities  to  several 
points  overseas.  The  broadcast  was  as 
follows: 

(The  organ  played  "As  The  Dew 
From  Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal 
the  Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the 
Hymn,  "Gently  Raise  The  Sacred 
Strain,"  singing  the  words  to  end  of 
verse  for  announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its  af- 
filiated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organ- 
ist, and  the  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

First  is  a  sacred  song  with  the  music 
of  Cyril  Jenkins:  "Let  the  mountains 
shout  for  joy,  And  all  ye  valleys  cry 
aloud;  and  all  ye  seas  and  dry  lands 
tell  the  wonders  of  your  eternal  King 
.  .  .  And  let  all  the  sons  of  God  shout 
for  joy.  And  let  the  eternal  creations  de- 
clare his  name  for  ever  and  ever.  .  .  ." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Praise  The  Lord." 
— Jenkins.) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper  at  the  Tab- 
ernacle organ  brings  to  this  Temple 
Square  hour  today  a  stately  religious 
march  movement  by  Karg-Elert:  "Now 
Thank  We  All  Our  God." 

(Organ  Selection:  "Now  Thank  We 
All  Our  God."— Karg-Elert.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
continues  this  hour  from  Temple  Square 
with  Vivien  Bard's  setting  for  the  deeply 
comforting  words  of  the  46th  Psalm: 
"Be  still  and  know  that  I  am  God  .  .  . 
He  maketh  wars  to  cease  unto  the  end 


of  the  earth;  He  breaketh  the  bow,  and 
cutteth  the  spear  in  sunder;  .  .  .  He 
burneth  the  chariot  in  fire  ...  Be  still 
and  know  that  I  am  God." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Be  Still  And  Know 
That  I  Am  God."— Bard.) 

Announcer:  Last  week  we  spoke  of  the 
question  of  convenience,  of  doing  things 
or  dodging  things,  and  of  the  fact  that 
no  learning,  or  working,  or  serving  ever 
seems  quite  comfortable  or  convenient  if 
a  person  doesn't  consider  it  to  be  so. 
In  the  long  process  of  learning  and  pre- 
paring, young  people  often  feel  both 
pressure  and  impatience — so  much  so 
that  delays  and  difficulties  may  cause 
them  to  quit,  to  give  up  too  easily  the 
pursuit  of  some  good  goal.  Sometimes  a 
student  leaves  school  too  soon  because  of 
uncertainties  and  setbacks.  With  dis- 
appointments and  problems,  values  may 
get  out  of  focus,  and  immediate  and 
passing  things  may  seem  more  impor- 
tant than  permanent  purposes,  and 
there  may  be  some  of  giving  up  too 
easily,  some  shortsighted  decisions.  The 
unexpected  almost  always  enters  in,  and 
impatience  must  be  tempered  with  en- 
during qualities  of  character  and  a  far- 
seeing  sense  of  values.  And  while  it  is 
well  to  go  as  far  as  we  can  as  fast  as  we 
can,  as  young  as  we  can,  we  need  also 
to  learn  to  be  willing  to  work,  and  will- 
ing to  wait,  and  shouldn't  hastily  set 
good  plans  aside  for  something  second- 
ary. "I  have  endeavored  to  impress 
upon  the  minds  of  youth,"  said  Heber 
J.  Grant,  "the  necessity  of  their  working 
to  the  extent  of  their  ability;  and  also 
while  so  laboring  never  to  become  dis- 
heartened."1 What  if  something  solid 
and  superior  does  take  a  little  longer — 
or  a  lot  longer?  "There  is  more  to  life 
than  increasing  its  speed,"2  said  Mahat- 
ma  Gandhi.  Preparation  is  more  im- 
portant than  speed.  Direction  is  more 
important  than  speed,  and  one  of  the 
worst  things  in  the  world  is  quickly  go- 
ing the  wrong  way.  We  can  go  a 
thousand  ways  fast  and  get  to  no  good 

iHeber  J.  Grant 
2Mahatma  Gandhi 


122 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


if  we  don't  keep  the  course.  "The  fu- 
ture," said  Emerson,  "belongs  to  those 
who  prepare  for  it."3  "I  have  fought  a 
good  fight,  I  have  finished  my  course,  I 
have  kept  the  faith."4  These  words  of 
Paul  would  commend  to  young  people 
patience,  perseverance,  principles,  im- 
provement, and  a  reaching  for  perfec- 
tion, and  avoiding  hasty,  shortsighted 
decisions.  "No  life  ever  grows  great," 
said  Dr.  Fosdick,  "until  it  is  focused, 
dedicated,  and  disciplined."5  To  you 
who  are  young:  Keep  up  your  courage, 
keep  moving,  keep  your  character  and 
conviction,  and  don't  let  passing  circum- 
stances easily  discourage  you  from  the 
pursuit  of  some  good  goal.  In  an  age 
of  speed,  may  God  help  us  keep  in  mind 
the  direction  in  which  we  are  moving, 
as  well  as  the  rate  at  which  we  are 
going. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Guide  Us,  O  Thou 
Great  Jehovah." — Hughes.) 

(Organ  Selection:  "Again  We  Meet 
Around  The  Board." — Careless.) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper  has  pre- 
sented one  of  the  hymn  tunes  of  George 
Careless:  "Again  We  Meet  Around  The 
Board  of  Jesus,  our  redeeming  Lord." 

And  now  with  the  words  of  Parley 
P.  Pratt  and  the  music  of  George  Care- 
less we  hear  a  hymn  of  solid  reassuring 

Accredited  to  Emerson 

4New  Testament,  II  Timothy  4:7 

EHarry  Emerson  Fosdick 


faith:  "The  morning  breaks,  the 
shadows  flee;  Lo,  Zion's  standard  is 
unfurled!  The  dawning  of  a  brighter 
day,  Majestic  rises  on  the  world." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "The  Morning 
Breaks,  The  Shadows  Flee." — Careless.) 

Announcer:  The  men's  chorus  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  recalls  in  closing  the 
words  of  a  hymn  by  Annie  S.  Hawkes: 
"I  Need  Thee  Every  Hour,  Most  gra- 
cious Lord;  No  tender  voice  like  thine 
can  peace  afford.  I  need  thee;  O  I  need 
thee;  Every  hour  I  need  thee!" 

(The  Men's  Chorus  sang:  "I  Need 
Thee  Every  Hour." 

Announcer:  Again  we  leave  you  with- 
in the  shadows  of  the  everlasting  hills. 
May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — and 
always. 

This  concludes  the  seventeen  hundred 
and  twenty-ninth  presentation,  and 
continues  the  34th  year  of  this  tradi- 
tional broadcast  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  brought 
to  you  by  CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated 
stations,  originating  with  Radio  Station 
KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  Frank  Asper  was  at 
the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 


Index 

Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph,  Clerk  of  the  Conference  1,  120 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    52 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   14 

Brockbank,  Elder  Bernard  P  105 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B   40 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B   83 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Brown,  Bishop  Victor  L   27 

Burton,  Elder  Theodore  M   65 

Chart  on  Correlation  Program  Organization   75 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  121 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L  116 

Correlation  Program  Chart   75 

Critchlow,  Elder  William  J.,  Jr  Ill 

Dyer,  Elder  Alvin  R   11 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   72 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.  121 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   19 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained    52 

General  Priesthood  Meeting     71 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D  101 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B     72 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Hunter,  Elder  Howard  W   22 

Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B   29 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.    55 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B  71,  79 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Longden,  Elder  John    25 

McKay,  President  David  0   5 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  O  -   86 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
McKay,  President  David  0  118 

(Closing  Address) 


124 


INDEX 


Page 


27,  29,  32,  34,  35,  36,  39,  43,  47,  50,  51,  55,  60, 
63,  65,  68,  70,  71,  83,  85,  86,  87,  88,  92,  96,  98, 
100,  104,  105,  106,  109,  111,  114,  116,  118,  120. 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   8 

Moyle,  President  Henry  D   88 

Moyle,  President  Henry  D   85 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
Moyle,  President  Henry  D     52 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Organizational  Chart  on  Correlation  Program   75 

Packer,  Elder  Boyd  K     47 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E     44 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers   52 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General   71 

Richards,  Elder  Franklin  D   32 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   107 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   92 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   77 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting     35 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    51 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   36 

Simpson,  Bishop  Robert  L   98 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   61 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding   20 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma  114 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers   52 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   ..121 

Tanner,  Elder  Nathan  Eldon   68 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D  109 

Third  Day— Morning  Meeting   88 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting  .....104 

Tuttle,  Elder  A.  Theodore   96 

Vandenberg,  Bishop  John  H   63 


Printed  by 


the  United  States  of  America 


