NINETY-NINTH 
SEMI-ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  fhe  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

October  5,  6  and  7, 1928 

With  a  Full  Report  of  All 
the  Discourses 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

A  BOOK  FOR  XMAS— GIVE  A  COPY  OF 

JOSEPH  SMITH 

The  Prophet>Teacher 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

Contains 

'Religious  and  Philosophical  Beliefs  of  One  Hundred  Years 

Ago." 

"The  Prophet's  Correction  of  Sectarian  Errors." 

"The  Prophet's  Philosophical  Doctrines." 
And  other  interesting  and  enlightening  ideas. 

Price  $1.50— Postpaid. 


Latter-day  Saint  Hymns 

The  New  Book 

For  our  choirs  and  adult  congregations  is  now  ready. 

It  contains  421  songs  with  music.  Many  of  the  old  favorites  and 
a  lot  of  new  ones. 

You'll  sing  better  and  more  happily  out  of  this  new  book. 
$1.00  Postpaid 

Per  Dozen,  $11.00 

Cash  With  the  Order,  $10.00  per  doz. 

EVERY  FAMILY  SHOULD  HAVE  A  COPY 

Deseret  Book  Company 

The  Home  of  Worth  While  Books 


44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


Ninety-Ninth  Semi-AnnualConference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  Ninety-ninth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday  and  Sunday,  October  5,  6  and  7,  1928. 

The  proceedings  of  all  the  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  broad- 
cast by  radio  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  t>he  Council  of  the  Twelve :  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David 
O.  McKay,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L. 
Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,*. 

Presiding  Patriarch  :    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  **,  Rulon 
S.  Wells,  f,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Rey  L.  Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric:  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A. 
Smith,  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  \and  Recorder :  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  the 
following  assistants  :  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William 
Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

Presidents  of  stakes  and  their  counselors  were  well  represented 
from  the  one  hundred  and  one  stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards,  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church,  were  in 
attendance.  Members  of  the  Board  of  Education,  and  general,  stake 
and  ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations  were  present. 

Mission  Presidents  were  in  attendance  as  follows:  Henry  H. 
Rolapp,  Eastern  States;  Noah  S.  Pond,  Northern  States;  John  G. 
Allred,  Northcentral  States ;  Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Western  States ; 
Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Win,  R.  Sloan,  Northwestern 
States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  Charles  H.  Hart,  Canada : 
Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information, 
Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 


*John  A.  Widtsoe  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 
**J.  Golden  Kimball  absent  account  of  illness. 

tJoseph  W.  McMurrin  absent  account  of  serious  illness  oi  his  wife. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FIRST  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  conference  commenced  at  10  o'clock  Friday 
morning,  October  5,  1928. 

The  great  tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  were  well  filled  with 
people  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  the  opening 
of  the  conference. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

Elder  Willard  Young  offered  the  invocation. 

The  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  in  having  the  opportunity  of  again  meeting  with  the 
Saints  in  general  conference.  I  am  delighted  to  see  the  splendid 
audience  that  is  here  this  morning. 

CHANGES  IN  STAKE  AND  .MISSION  OFFICERS  SINCE  LAST  CONFERENCE 

I  am  sure  that  it  will  be  of  some  interest  to  those  who  are  here 
assembled  to  learn  regarding  the  changes  that  have  been  made  since  our 
last  conference. 

New  Stakes  Organized :  The  Alpine  stake  has  been  divided  into 
three  stakes,  to  be  known  as  the  Alpine,  Lehi  and  Timpanogos  stakes. 

Stake  Presidents  Appointed :  John  E.  Magleby  has  been  released 
as  president  of  the  South  Sevier  stake,  and  James  R.  Ware  has  been 
appointed  to  succeed  him. 

John  M.  Baxter  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Woodruff 
stake,  and  William  R.  Smith  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Stephen  L.  Chipman  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Alpine 
stake,  and  Clifford  E.  Young  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Anchor  Carlos  Schow  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  new 
Lehi  stake. 

Wilford  W.  Warnick  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  new 
Timpanogos  stake. 

Frank  Y.  Taylor  has  been  released  as  President  of  Granite  stake 
and  Hugh  B.  Brown  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

John  A.  Beckstrand  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Millard 
stake,  and  T.  Clark  Callister  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Joseph  B.  White  has  been  released  as  president  of  Hyrum  stake  and 
Danforth  M.  Bickmore  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Mission  Presidents  Appointed :  (J,.  A.  Cahoon  has  been  released  as 
president  of  the  Tongan  mission,  and  Newel  J.  Cutler  appointed  to 
succeed  him. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


Charles  H.  Hyde  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Australian 
mission,  and  Clarence  H.  Tingey  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Ernest  C.  Rossiter  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  French 
mission,  and  Peter  Rulon  Christensen  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

New  W ards  Organised :  Elberta  ward,  Tintic  stake.  Echo  ward, 
Summit  stake  ;  Midvale  ward,  East  Jordan  stake,  divided  into  two  wards 
to  be  known  as  Midvale  First  and  Second  wards;  Green  River  ward, 
Carbon  stake ;  Compton  ward,  Los  Angeles  stake ;  Hurricane  North 
ward,  St.  George  stake. 

Bishop  who  has  passed  away  during  the  past  six  months :  William 
A.  Stringer  of  Milburn  ward,  Lyman  stake. 

Stake  clerks  who  have  filed :  Nelson  J.  Hansen  of  Uinta  stake ; 
F.  C.  Mickelson  of  Shelley  stake. 

All  of  the  retiring  stake  presidents  retire  with  the  confidence,  love, 
respect  and  good  will  of  the  General  Authorities.  They  have  done  most 
excellent  work,  some  of  them  serving  over  a  quarter  of  a  century. 

The  Church  today  has  101  stakes  of  Zion;  940  wards;  72  in- 
dependent branches. 

When  we  speak  of  an  independent  branch  we  mean  a  branch  with 
a  president  and  two  counselors.  There  are  many  small  branches  of 
wards  in  addition. 

We  have  1,012  organized  wards  and  branches  in  the  Church, 
from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on  the  south. 

We  have  at  the  present  time  27  missions  in  different  parts  of  the 
world. 

EXPENDITURES  FOR  CHURCH  EDIFICES 

The  building  program  of  the  Church  is  progressing  as  rapidly 
this  year  as  it  did  last  year.  There  was  expended  last  year  for  the 
erection  of  Church  buildings  and  amusement  halls  throughout  the 
Stakes  of  Zion  over  one  million  dollars  of  Church  funds  and  a  like 
amount  by  the  people. 

There  has  been  expended  in  the  first  nine  months  ending  October 
first,  this  year,  $868,892.54.  During  the  same  period  last  year  there  was 
expended  for  stake  and  ward  edifices  $742,282.40.  So  that  over  $125,- 
000  more  money  has  been  appropriated  by  the  Church  for  the  nine 
months  ending  October  1st  this  year,  for  the  erection  of  public  build- 
ings, than  for  the  same  period  last  year.  And  the  Saints  have  con- 
tributed a  like  amount.  Therefore,  over  $1,700,000  has  been  expended 
up  to  date  from  the  tithes  and  by  the  people  in  the  various  stakes 
for  these  purposes. 

VISITS  MISSIONS 

It  has  fallen  to  my  lot  during  the  past  six  months  to  visit  the 
following  branches  in  the  missions:  Chicago,  111.,  Washington,  D.  C, 
New  York  and  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  Charleston  and  Huntington,  West 
Virginia.    I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting  the  mission  presidents 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  many  of  the  elders  and  holding  meetings  in  the  places  in  the 
mission  fields  that  I  have  mentioned. 

BUILDINGS  DEDICATED 

In  addition  I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  holding  meetings  in  many 
of  the  wards  and  in  some  of  the  stakes,  and  of  dedicating  meeting 
houses  and  amusement  halls.  I  dedicated  a  chapel  and  amusement  hall 
in  Kirtland,  New  Mexico,  in  the  Young  stake  of  Zion.  There  has 
been  erected  there  a  very  beautiful  little  ward  meetinghouse,  one  of 
the  finest  in  the  Church.  The  people  there  are  very  much  more  pros- 
perous than  they  were  some  years  ago. 

I  was  reminded  of  the  wonderful  change  that  has  taken  place  since 
I  went  over  the  mountains  from  Alamosa  down  to  Durango  and  then 
by  wagon  to  Kirtland,  with  the  late  Brigham  Young,  Jr.,  forty-five 
years  ago.  We  covered  the  same  ground  on  this  recent  trip  in  between 
three  and  four  hours,  that  it  took  us  four  or  five  days  to  cover  with 
a  team  on  my  first  visit. 

I  dedicated  a  splendid  meetinghouse  and  amusement  hall  at  Smith- 
field,  in  the  Benson  stake,  a  very  fine  building  in  the  small  town  of 
Mapleton,  in  the  Franklin  stake,  and  a  meetinghouse  costing  between 
sixty  and  seventy  thousand  dollars  at  Mar  Vista,  one  of  the  wards  of 
the  Hollywood  stake.  The  last  named  ward  was  organized  only  five 
months  ago,  its  members  having  originally  belonged  to  the  Ocean  Park 
ward.  It  is  remarkable  that  in  less  than  five  months  from  the  time 
the  erection  of  the  building  was  commenced,  it  was  completed  and  paid 
for.  Men,  women  and  children  worked  on  this  building.  The  little 
children  carried  tiles  for  the  roof ;  the  good  sisters  nailed  on  laths ;  and 
some  of  our  non-Mormon  friends  devoted  time  and  attention  to  laboring 
there.  The  people  did  more  than  one-half  of  the  total  cost  of  erecting 
this  building.  I  think  it  is  the  most  remarkable  accomplishment  in  that 
length  of  time  of  any  building  we  have  erected  in  the  various  wards. 
There  were  one  thousand  people  in  attendance  at  the  dedicatory  services, 
and  by  opening  the  doors  between  the  amusment  hall  and  the  chapel, 
they  were  all  comfortably  seated.  When  the  building  was  commenced 
the  membership  of  the  ward  was  less  than  four  hundred  people,  and 
few  of  them  have  large  means. 

The  Los  Angeles  stake  has  built  a  large  amusement  hall  which 
is  utilized  for  conference  purposes,  adjoining  the  Huntington  Park 
ward  meetinghouse.  The  combination  of  the  meetinghouse  and  stake 
hall  gives  them  one  of  the  finest  plants  in  the  entire  Church.  This 
building  for  stake  purposes  and  recreation  has  cost  about  $110,000,  a:: 
I  remember  it. 

BUILDINGS  IN  COURSE  OF  CONSTRUCTION 

The  Hollywood  stake,  in  connection  with  the  Wilshire  ward,  in 
erecting  a  most  magnificent  chapel  and  ward  building  and  recreation 
hall  combined,  which  will  cost,  I  would  say,  in  the  neighborhood  of 
$120,000. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


We  are  now  erecting  in  Portland,  Oregon,  a  magnificent  chapel 
that  will  cost  us  over  $100,000.    We  own  an  entire  block  there. 

The  work  that  is  being  accomplished  in  erecting  meetinghouses 
with  the  funds  that  the  people  pay  into  the  various  missions  as  tithing 
is  very  remarkable. 

In  the  California  and  other  missions  many  meetinghouses  are  being 
erected  at  the  present  time,  and  many  have  been  erected.  Several 
hundred  thousand  dollars  have  been  expended  in  the  last  few  years  in 
the  California  mission  alone. 

It  fell  to  my  lot  recently  to  attend  the  conference  of  the  San 
Francisco  stake  held  at  Oakland,  and  also  to  hold  a  meeting  at  San 
Francisco.  That  stake  is  growing  very  rapidly  indeed.  So  also  are 
both  of  the  stakes  in  Los  Angeles. 

I  also  had  the  privilege  of  attending  a  three  days'  hike  or  outing 
of  the  Mutuals  of  the  San  Francisco  stake  at  Stinson  Beach  on  the 
Pacific  ocean,  enjoying  a  very  splendid  time  there. 

We  have  erected  a  fine  seminary  building  at  Moscow,  Idaho,  facing 
the  university  buildings  there.  It  is  a  very  creditable  structure,  and  the 
president  and  other  officers  of  the  university  are  very  much  delighted 
with  it,  and  speak  in  the  highest  terms  of  our  having  done  something 
along  religious  and  educational  lines  for  the  members  of  our  Church 
who  are  attending  the  university. 

We  are  erecting  a  similar  building  near  the  Agricultural  College 
in  Logan. 

The  building  program  of  the  Church  during  the  past  nine  months 
I  feel  is  all  that  we  could  have  asked  or  expected. 

AN  INTERESTING  AND  PROFITABLE  TRIP 

It  fell  to  jny  lot  with  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  to  be  one  of 
the  guests  of  the  Union  Pacific  Railroad  and  of  the  National  Parks, 
in  visiting  the  Grand  Canyon  of  the  Colorado  and  the  scenic  wonders 
of  Southern  Utah — Zion  Canyon,  Bryce  Canyon,  and  Cedar  Breaks — 
than  which,  to  my  mind,  there  is  nothing  finer  in  the  world.  There  is 
a  great  tunnel  and  road  being  built,  winding  up  over  the  mountains  to 
come  out  of  Zion  Canyon,  that  is  costing  a  vast  sum  of  money,  the 
government  alone,  as  I  remember  it,  having  appropriated  over  a  million 
dollars  to  build  this  tunnel.  It  will  be  the  most  remarkable  and  scenic 
route  that  any  automobile  has  ever  traveled  over  when  it  is  completed. 
There  will  be  an  abundance  of  room  for  two  automobiles  to  pass  all 
through  this  great  tunnel.  It  will  save  a  vast  amount  of  time  which  is 
now  "spent  in  traveling  over  the  bad  roads  and  through  a  strip  of  Arizona 
to  get  to  the  Grand  Canyon  of  the  Colorado.  Many  miles  will  be 
saved,  and  as  I  say,  it  will  be  the  greatest  scenic  road  ever  traveled 
over  by  automobiles,  when  it  is  completed. 

I  need  not  enter  into  any  details  here  regarding  these  four  scenic 
wonders.  They  are  marvelous.  They  cannot  be  duplicated  in  any 
part  of  the  wide  world. 

There  were  about  two  hundred  guests,  as  I  remember  it,  in  the  party 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


— a  special  train  from  Los  Angeles  and  a  special  train  from  Salt  Lake 
City.  I  wish  to  express  to  President  Carl  R.  Gray  and  to  the  chairman  of 
the  finance  committee  of  the  Union  Pacific  Railroad,  Mr.  Seger,  and  to 
Stephen  T.  Mather,  the  sincere  gratitude  of  President  Ivins  and  myself, 
Mayor  John  F.  Bowman,  Congressman  Don  B.  Colton  and  many  other 
people  who  were  with  us,  citizens  of  Utah,  for  the  most  marvelous  and 
wonderful  trip  that  it  has  ever  fallen  to  my  lot  to  take. 

The  splendid  compliments  paid  to  our  people  for  their  accomplish- 
ments in  Southern  Utah  by  President  Gray,  Chairman  Seger,  Mr. 
Mather  and  others  who  spoke,  filled  our  hearts  with  gratitude  and 
thanks  to  them.  We  rejoice  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  coming 
into  their  own. 

It  fell  to  my  lot  after  this  dedication  to  travel  to  Los  Angeles  with 
over  one  hundred  of  the  men  who  had  the  privilege  of  being  on  this 
excursion,  and  they  were  universally  pleased  with  what  they  had  seen. 
They  spoke  in  the  highest  terms  of  the  very  splendid  singing  of  our 
choir  at  Kanab,  of  the  wonderful  singing  of  our  choir  at  Cedar  City, 
and  of  the  very  fine  singing  of  our  Sunday  School  children  at  Kanab. 
They  also  spoke  of  the  healthy,  fine  looking  children  and  of  the  fine 
young  men  and  the  fine  young  ladies  that  they  met  on  this  trip,  and 
I  rejoiced  in  it. 

I  forgot  to  say  in  speaking  of  dedicating  meetinghouses  that  I 
had  the  pleasure  of  getting  up  at  6  o'clock  in  the  morning  at  the  Grand 
Canyon  and  driving  to  Kanab  where  I  arranged  for  the  Sunday  School 
to  stay  in  session  so  that  the  visitors  might  meet  them  and  that  the 
children  might  sing  a  song  for  them.  I  also  remained  there  for  the 
afternoon  meeting  and  dedicated  the  Kanab  meetinghouse.  These 
gentlemen  were  favorably  impressed  indeed  with  such  a  splendid  meet- 
inghouse in  such  a  small  town  as  Kanab.  Several  of  them  announced 
to  me  in  Los  Angeles  and  also  in  San  Francisco,  (as  I  had  to  go  up 
there  for  a  couple  of  days  on  business)  that  one  of  the  outstanding 
things  with  which  they  were  more  pleased  than  anything  else  in  making 
this  trip  to  Southern  Utah,  was  to  become  better  acquainted  with  the 
Mormon  people,  with  their  aims,  their  objects  and  their  accomplish- 
ments. Several  said  to  me :  "Mr.  Grant,  we  have  never  seen  anything 
but  unfavorable  notices  regarding  your  people  in  magazines  and  news- 
papers." More  than  one  of  them  said:  "I  am  convinced  that  you 
will  now  have  a  couple  of  hundred  non-Mormon  missionaries  sounding 
the  praises  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  of  the  fine  class  of  children, 
young  men  and  young  women  and  citizens  generally  that  you  have  ir 
your  state." 

I  am  very  grateful,  indeed,  for  the  wonderful  expenditure  of  money 
by  the  government  of  the  United  States,  and  by  the  Union  Pacific  Rail- 
road of  over  $700,000  in  building  a  magnificent  lodge  on  the  rim  of 
the  Grand  Canyon  of  the  Colorado.   It  is  an  architectural  dream. 

THE  LORD'S  PROMISES  TO  BE  FULFILLED 

There  is  nothing  that  I  am  about  to  say  that  I  have  not  said  many 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


times  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  find  in  the  very  first  revelation  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  these  words : 

"Search  these  commandments,  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the  pro- 
phecies and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

"What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself ;  and 
though  the  heavens  and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass  away,  but 
shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice  of  my  servants, 
it  is  the  same." 

I  wish  that  I  possessed  the  power  to  impress  upon  the  hearts  and 
the  minds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  the  necessity  of  becoming  familiar 
with  the  commandments  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
not  only  becoming  familiar  with  them,  but  that  I  might  have  the  power 
to  impress  upon  their  hearts  and  souls  a  determination  to  keep  those 
commandments,  to  live  them  in  very  deed  and  in  their  every-day  lives. 

We  find  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  "there  is  a 
law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this  world, 
upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — and  when  we  obtain  any  bless- 
ing from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated." 

BLESSINGS  PREDICATED  UPON  OBSERVANCE  OF  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

Some  very  wonderful  promises  are  made  to  us  if  we  observe  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  The  blessings  will  come  if  we  observe  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  and  they  will  not  come  unless  we  do  observe  it.  I  feel  at  the 
present  time  that  it  is  very  appropriate  for  all  Latter-day  Saints  to  have 
their  attention  called  (although  I  have  called  their  attention  to  it  time 
and  time  again)  to  this  marvelous  and  remarkable  Word  of  Wisdom.  I 
shall  not  take  the  time  to  read  but  very  little  of  it: 

"To  be  sent  greeting;  not  by  commandment  or  constraint,  but  by  revelation 
and  the  word  of  wisdom,  showing  forth  the  order  and  will  of  God  in  the 
temporal  salvation  of  all  saints  in  the  last  days." 

Nearly  90  per  cent  of  all  the  time  of  the  saints  is  spent  in  laboring 
for  their  temporal  advancement,  and  I  have  announced  before  and  I 
announce  again  that  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  had  observed  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  as  a  people,  every  one  of  them,  from  the  day  that  they  came 
into  these  valleys,  our  temporal  salvation  would  have  been  assured. 
The  money  expended  for  those  things  which  the  Lord  says  are  not  good 
for  us,  which  we  have  been  taught  to  leave  alone — namely,  tea,  coffee, 
tobacco  and  liquor — if  every  dollar  of  that  money  had  been  kept  in  our 
country  we  would  have  had  one  of  the  wealthiest  states  in  this  Union, 
and  more  of  the  circulating  medium,  namely,  the  hard  coin,  so  to  speak, 
than  most  any  state  in  this  western  part  of  America. 

It  is  estimated  that  every  single  dollar  circulates  around  like  the 
blood  in  the  body  of  a  man,  being  the  vital  circulating  medium.  Every 
dollar  does  one  hundred  dollars'  worth  of  work  in  a  year,  and  when 
you  stop  to  think  of  the  hundreds  and  thousands  of  dollars,  running 
up  I  am  sure  at  the  present  time  perhaps  to  nearly  a  million  dollars  a 
year,  that  go  out  of  this  state  by  the  breaking  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


certainly  if  we  desire  our  temporal  salvation  and  if  we  have  faith  in  the 
words  of  God,  every  word  of  which  he  says  shall  be  fulfilled,  we  should 
keep  this  law.  The  Lord  has  not  made  this  an  absolute  commandment, 
but  when  our  Heavenly  Father,  the  one  to  whom  we  owe  our  lives  and 
all  that  we  possess  and  all  our  allegiance,  desires  us  to  do  a  thing,  it 
seems  to  me  that  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  should  do  that  thing  more 
willingly  even  than  though  it  come  as  an  absolute  command  to  us. 

To  my  mind  the  most  remarkable  promise  that  any  man  can  have 
is  contained  in  this  revelation : 

"And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and  marrow 
to  their  bones; 

"And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures." 

Health  is  one  of  the  first  great  blessings  of  God  to  man,  and 
second  only  to  health  is  wisdom.  These  two  great  blessings  are  promised 
to  every  man,  woman  and  child  in  the  Church  of  Christ  that  obeys  the 
Word  of  Wisdom. 

"And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
"And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel  shall 
pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them." 

And  I  honestly  believe  that  but  for  obeying  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
when  I  was  operated  upon  and  the  doctors  said  that  blood  poisoning 
in  the  third  and  last  stage  had  set  in,  that  I  had  to  die — if  I  had  not 
been  an  observer  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  so  that  the  blood  in  my 
veins  was  pure  and  could  overcome  the  poison,  I  would  not  be  standing 
here  before  you,  but  more  than  thirty  years  ago  my  time  would  have 
come  to  pass  from  this  life. 

INFLUENCE  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

We  hear  a  good  deal  of  talk  and  complaint  about  the  influence  of 
the  Priesthood  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the 
domination  of  the  people  by  those  who  preside  over  them.  I  want  to 
read,  more  particularly  for  the  benefit  of  those  not  of  our  faith,  a 
revelation  of  Almighty  God  to  Joseph  Smith,  when  he  was  in  Liberty 
jail,  (and  at  one  time  when  he  was  in  that  jail  he  was  in  chains  ,which 
shows  that  even  the  chains  of  the  wicked  could  not  restrain  God  from 
giving  his  word  to  the  prophet  whom  he  had  raised  up  to  establish  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  these  last  days).  Speaking  of  the  calling  of 
the  priesthood,  he  said : 

"Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they 
not  chosen? 

"Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  [much  upon  the  things  of  this  world,  and 
aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — 

"That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  .Connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  ca.nnot  be  controlled  nor 
handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

"That  they  rnay  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true ;  but  when  we  undertake 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise  control 
or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men,  in  any  degree 
of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw  themselves ;  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  grieved ;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the  priesthood  or  the 
authority  of  that  man. 

"Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto  himself,  to  kick  against  the  pricks, 
to  persecute  the  Saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 

"We  have  learned  by  sad  experience  that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition  of 
almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as  they  suppose,  they  will 
immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 

"Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen." 

This  is  the  part  I  wish  to  emphasize : 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
priesthood  only  by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness,  and 
by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — 

"Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost ; 
and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him  whom  thou 
hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy; 

"That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords  of  death. 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the  household 
of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly ;  then  shall  thy  con- 
fidence wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God ;  and  the  doctrine  of  the  priesthood 
shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an  un- 
changing scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth ;  and  thy  dominion  shall  be  an 
everlasting  dominion,  and  without  ccffnpulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto  thee 
forever  and  ever." 

Is  it  a  terrible  thing  to  exercise  the  priesthood  of  the  living  God 
in  the  way  that  the  Lord  prescribes :  "By  kindness  and  gentleness"  ? 
That  is  the  only  way,  and  unless  it  is  exercised  in  that  way,  Amen 
to  the  priesthood  and  authority  of  those  who  hold  this  priesthood  in 
the  Church  of  Christ. 

COUNSEL  REGARDING  VOTING 

It  has  been  whispered  around  frequently,  and  I  hear  the  murmur 
now,  that  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  standing  at 
the  head  and  holding  the  priesthood,  desire  this  man  or  that  man  or 
the  other  man  elected  to  office.  The  Presidency  of  the  Church  so  far 
as  they  are  concerned,  allow  every  man,  woman  and  child,  that  is  old 
enough  to  vote,  to  vote  according  to  his  or  her  own  conviction.  But 
we  do  appeal  to  all  men  and  women,  realizing  the  responsibility  resting 
upon  them,  to  seek  God  our  Heavenly  Father  to  guide  them  politically 
as  well  as  religiously,  and  to  stand  for  right  and  for  those  things  that 
are  for  the  good  of  this  nation.  The  Latter-day  Saints  believe  absolutely 
that  the  Constitution  of  our  country  was  written  by  inspired  men.  We 
believe  in  upholding  the  laws  of  our  country.  We  believe  in  being 
obedient  to  the  laws.  One  of  the  Articles  of  our  Faith  says  that  it 
is  our  duty  to  do  so. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


BELIEF  REGARDING  GOVERNMENTS  AND  LAWS 

I  am  going  to  read  a  declaration  of  the  belief  of  our  Church 
regarding  the  governments  and  laws,  issued  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  in  August,  1835 : 

"We  believe  that  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit  of 
man;  and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation  to  them,  both 
in  making  laws  and  administering  them,  for  the  good  and  safety  of  society. 

"We  believe  that  no  government  can  exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws  are 
framed  and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each  individual  the  free  exercise  of 
conscience,  the  right  and  control  of  property,  and  the  protection  of  life. 

"We  believe  that  all  governments  necessarily  require  civil  officers  and 
.magistrates  to  enforce  the  laws  of  the  same ;  and  that  such  as  will  administer 
the  law  in  equity  and  justice  should  be  sought  for  and  upheld  by  the  voice  of 
the  people  if  a  republic,  or  the  will  of  the  sovereign. 

"We  believe  that  religion  is  instituted  of  God ;  and  that  men  are  amenable  to 
him,  and  to  him  only,  for  the  exercise  of  it,  unless  their  religious  opinions  prompt 
them  to  infringe  upon  the  rights  and  liberties  of  others ;  but  we  do  not  believe 
that  human  law  has  a  right  to  interfere  in  prescribing  rules  of  worship  to  bind 
the  consciences  of  men,  nor  dictate  forms  for  public  or  private  devotion :  that 
the  civil  magistrate  should  restrain  crime,  but  never  control  conscience ;  should 
punish  guilt,  but  never  suppress  the  freedom  of  the  soul. 

"We  believe  that  all  men  are  bound  to  sustain  and  uphold  the  respective 
governments  in  which  they  reside,  while  protected  in  their  inherent  and  in- 
alienable rights  by  the  laws  of  such  governments ;  and  that  sedition  and  rebellion 
are  unbecoming  every  citizen  thus  protected,  and  should  be  punished  accordingly ; 
and  that  all  governments  have  a  right  to  enact  such  laws  as  in  their  own  judgments 
are  best  calculated  to  secure  the  public  interest;  at  the  same  time,  however, 
holding  sacred  the  freedom  of  conscience. 

"We  believe  that  every  man  should  be  honored  in  his  station,  rulers  and 
magistrates  as  such,  being  placed  for  the  protection  of  the  innocent  and  the 
punishment  of  the  guilty;  and  that  to  the  laws  all  men  owe  respect  and  deference, 
as  without  them  peace  and  harmony  would  be  supplanted  by  anarchy  and  terror; 
human  laws  being  instituted  for  the  express  purpose  of  regulating  our  interests  as 
individuals  and  nations,  between  man  and  man;  and  divine  laws  given  of 
heaven,  prescribing  rules  on  spiritual  concerns,  for  faith  and  worship,  both 
to  be  answered  by  man  to  his  Maker. 

"We  believe  that  rulers,  states,  and  governments  have  a  right,  and  are 
bound  to  enact  laws  for  the  protection  of  all  citizens  in  the  free  exercise  of 
their  religious  belief;  but  we  do  not  believe  that  they  have  a  right  in  justice  to 
deprive  citizens  of  this  privilege,  or  proscribe  them  in  their  opinions,  so  long 
as  a  regard  and  reverence  are  shown  to  the  laws  and  such  religious  opinions 
do  not  justify  sedition  nor  conspiracy. 

"We  believe  that  the  commission  of  crime  should  be  punished  according  to 
the  nature  of  the  offense;  that  murder,  treason,  robbery,  theft,  and  the  breach 
of  the  general  peace,  in  all  respects,  should  be  punished  according  to  their 
criminality  and  their  tendency  to  evil  among  men,  by  the  laws  of  that  govern- 
ment in  which  the  offense  is  committed ;  and  for  the  public  peace  and  tranquility 
all  men  should  step  forward  and  use  their  ability  in  bringing  offenders  against 
good  laws  to  punishment." 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  that: 

"All  men  should  step  forward  and  use  their  ability  in  bringing  offenders 
against  good  laws  to  punishment." 

"We  do  not  believe  it  just  to  mingle  religious  influence  with  civil  government." 

I  wish  to  emphasize  that:  "We  do  not  believe  it  just  to  mingle 
religious  influence  with  civil  government." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


—"whereby  one  religious  society  is  fostered  and  another  proscribed  in  its 
spiritual  privileges,  and  the  individual  rights  of  its  members,  as  citizens,  denied. 

"We  believe  fjhat  all  religious  societies  have  a  right  to  deal  with  their 
members  for  disorderly  conduct,  according  to  the  rules  and  regulations  of  such 
societies;  provided  that  such  dealings  be  for  fellowship  and  good  standing;  but 
we  do  not  believe  that  any  religious  society;  has  authority  to  try  men  on  the 
right  of  property  or  life,  or  take  from  them  this  world's  goods,  or  to  put  them 
in  jeopardy  of  either  life  or  limb,  or  to  inflict  any  physical  punishment  upon 
them.  They  can  only  excommunicate  them  from  their  society,  and  withdraw 
from  them  their  fellowship." 

SENTIMENTS  OF  ABRAHAM  LINCOLN 

In  closing  I  wish  to  read  a  few  words  that  I  have  read  many 
times,  (and  I  wish  that  we  would  get  these  words  in  our  hearts  and  in 
our  minds)  from  that  great  and  wonderful  man,  Abraham  Lincoln, 
who  all  Latter-day  Saints  believe  firmly  was  raised  up  and  inspired  of 
God  Almighty,  and  that  he  reached  the  presidency  of  the  United  States 
under  the  favor  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  defeating  Stephen  A.  Douglas, 
and  fulfilling  a  prediction  made  by  Joseph  Smith  to  Stephen  A.  Douglas 
when  he  was  an  obscure  country  judge  in  Illinois. 

Lincoln  said : 

"Let  the  people  know  the  truth,  and  the  country  is  safe." 
"Let  none  falter  who  thinks  he  is  right,  and  we  will  succeed." 
"Let  us  dare  to  do  our  duty  as  we  understand  it." 

"Bad  laws,  if  they  exist,  should  be  repealed  as  soon  as  possible;  still  while 
they  continue  in  force  for  the  sake  of  example,  they  should  be  religiously 
observed." 

Notice  the  language — "religiously  observed." 

"Let  every  American,  every  lover  of  liberty,  every  well  wisher  to  his 
posterity,  swear  by  the  blood  of  the  Revolution  never  to  violate,  in  the  least 
particular,  the  laws  of  the  country,  and  never  to  tolerate  their  violation  by  others. 
As  the  patriots  of  seventy-six  did  to  the  support  of  the  Declaration  of  Inde- 
pendence, so  to  the  support  of  the  Constitution  and  laws,  let  every  American 
pledge  his  life,  his  property  and  his  sacred  honor.  Let  every  mail  remember  that 
to  violate  the  law  is  to  trample  on  the  blood  of  his  father,  and  to  tear  the 
charter  of  his  own  and  his  children's  liberty.  Let  reverence  for  the  law  be 
breathed  by  every  American  mother  to  the  lisping  babe  that  prattles  on  her 
lap.  Let  it  be  taught  in  schools,  in  seminaries  and  in  colleges.  Let  it  be 
written  in  primers,  in  spelling  books  and  almanacs.  Let  it  be  preached  from 
the  pulpit,  proclaimed  in  legislative  halls  and  enforced  in  courts  of  justice.  In 
short  let  it  become  the  political  religion  of  the  nation." 

Above  all,  let  it  become  the  religion  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
Why?  Because  it  is  in  absolute  and  perfect  harmony  with  the  word  of 
the  living  God  to  us  in  the  revelations,  every  word  of  which,  according 
to  God,  shall  be  fulfilled. 

May  God  bless  each  and  every  one  of  you.  May  every  soul  within 
the  sound  of  my  voice  or  who  may  be  listening  in  over  the  radio,  who 
has  received  a  testimony  of  the  work  in  which  you  and  I  are  engaged, 
who  is  able  to  testify  that  he  or  she  knows  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living 
God — may  we  each  and  all  who  have  this  knowledge  live  the  gospel  and 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


set  an  example  before  all  men  of  integrity  and  devotion  to  God  and  the 
laws  of  our  country,  that  will  preach  the  truth,  which  is  of  far  more 
value  than  all  the  words  that  we  can  utter,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and 
I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  our  Savior  and  Redeemer.  Amen. 

Professor  Charles  Kent  sang  a  sacred  solo,  "Consider  the  lilies." 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  another  oppor- 
tunity is  afforded  us  to  meet  together  in  general  conference,  in  peace 
and  enjoying  the  degree  of  prosperity  with  which  we  are  blessed,  as 
set  forth  in  the  report  which  has  been  made  by  President  Grant.  As  a 
preface  to  the  brief  remarks  which  I  desire  to  make — and  I  pray  that 
what  I  say  may  be  directed  through  your  faith  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
— I  desire  to  read  from  the  words  of  the  Prophet  Jeremiah : 

"Thus  saith  the  Lord,  Stand  ye  in  the  ways,  and  see,  and  ask  for  the  old 
oaths,  where  is  the  good  way,  and  walk  therein,  and  ye  shall  find  rest  for  your 
souls.    But  they  said,  We  will  inot  walk  therein. 

"Also  I  set  watchmen  over  you,  saying,  Hearken  to  the  sound  of  the  trumpet. 
But  they  said,  We  will  not  hearken. 

"Therefore  hear,  ye  nations,  and  know,  O  congregation,  what  is  among 
them. 

"Hear,  O  earth :  behold,  I  will  bring  evil  upon  this  people,  even  the  fruit 
of  their  thoughts,  because  they  have  not  hearkened  unto  my  words,  nor  to  my 
law,  but  rejected  it." 

According  to  our  chronology,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  more  than 
two  thousand  years  have  passed  since  the  Lord,  through  his  servant 
Jeremiah,  delivered  this  message  to  the  House  of  Israel.  Preceding 
the  paragraphs  which  I  have  read,  the  Lord  says : 

"To  whom  shall  I  speak,  and  give  warning,  that  they  may  hear?  behold, 
their  ear  is  uncircumcised  and  they  cannot  hearken :  behold,  the  word  of  the 
Lord  is  unto  them  a  reproach ;  they  have  no  delight  in  it.    *    *  * 

"Were  they  ashamed  when  they  had  committed  abomination?  nay,  they 
were  not  at  all  ashamed,  neither  could  they  blush." 

REFUSED  TO  LISTEN 

At  the  time  to  which  this  scripture  refers,  the  Israelitish  people, 
after  their  deliverance  from  the  Egyptian  captivity,  after  the  Lord 
by  the  matchless  power  of  his  outstretched  arm  had  given  them  full 
possession  of  the  Promised  Land,  had  become  indifferent  to  the  words 
of  their  prophets,  had  departed  from  the  path  which  the  Lord  had 
marked  out  for  them,  and  the  prophet  calls  them  back  to  the  old  paths 
which  is  the  good  way.  The  promise  is  that  if  they  will  walk  therein  they 
shall  find  peace  to  their  souls;  but  they  said:  "We  will  not  walk 
therein."  When  the  watchmen  whom  the  Lord  had  set  over  them 
sounded  the  trumpet  of  alarm,  they  refused  to  listen.  This  attitude 
resulted  in  the  scattering  of  the  House  of  Israel  to  the  four  winds  of 
heaven,  as  his  prophets  had  declared  that  they  would  be  scattered. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


13 


Thank  the  Lord  that  as  the  scattering  of  Israel  had  been  declared  so 
did  the  Lord  definitely  promise  that  they  should  be  gathered  again  and 
restored  to  the  promised  land,  and  the  fulfilment  of  that  promise  is 
near  at  hand. 

I  have  been  asking  myself  the  question  recently :  Aren't  we  at  the 
present  time  in  a  condition  somewhat  similar  to  that  of  Ancient  Israel 
at  the  time  to  which  this  scripture  refers?  From  a  small  number  of 
people  at  the  time  they  left  Palestine  and  went  into  Egypt  they  had 
become  a  great  kingdom,  the  influence  of  which  under  the  reign  of  King 
Solomon  was  felt  throughout  the  then  known  world.  The  conditions 
with  which  they  were  surrounded  during  their  early  development  had 
changed.  They  felt  the  strength  of  their  own  power,  and  depended 
less  upon  the  arm  of  the  Lord.  The  old  paths  had  been  replaced  by 
modern  roads,  broader  and  more  easy  to  follow.  They  had  listened 
to  the  blast  of  the  trumpet  until  the  sound  had  become  monotonous. 
They  preferred  the  timbrel  and  the  harp  which  brought  pleasure  without 
restraint.  The  word  of  the  Lord  to  them  had  become  obsolete,  sup- 
planted by  more  modern  theories.  Are  we  aware — and  when  I  say  "we" 
I  am  not  applying  my  remarks  to  the  members  of  my  own  Church  alone, 
but  to  the  splendid  men  and  women  who  make  up  the  citizenship  of 
the  United  States — that  we  too  live  in  a  land  of  promise,  that  it  is 
through  the  grace  and  mercy  of  God  our  Father  that  we  have  been 
brought  here  and  made  participants  in  its  privileges  and  blessings? 
Do  we  people  of  America  know  that  certain  unchangeable  decrees  of 
God  our  Heavenly  Father  apply  to  this  land  as  they  apply  to  Palestine  ? 
Let  us  examine  and  see. 

A  CHOICE  LAND 

According  to  the  manner  in  which  we  count  time,  it  was  four 
thousand  and  forty-six  years  ago,  about  two  hundred  years  after  the 
deluge,  that  a  small  number  of  people  under  the  leadership  of  inspired 
men,  left  the  city  of  Babylon  on  the  banks  of  the  Euphrates  river  in 
the  valleys  of  Mesopotamia  and  found  their  way  to  the  American  con- 
tinent. As  they  started  on  their  long  pilgrimage,  the  word  of  the  Lord 
came  to  them  as  follows : 

"And  the  Lord  would  not  suffer  that  they  should  stop  beyond  the  sea  in  the 
wilderness,  but  he  would  that  they  should  come  forth  even  unto  the  land  of 
promise,  which  was  choice  above  all  other  lands,  which  the  Lord  God  had 
preserved  for  a  righteous  people. 

"And  he  had  sworn  in  his  wrath  unto  the  brother  of  Jared,  that  whoso 
should  possess  this  land  of  promise,  from  that  time  henceforth  and  forever, 
should  serve  him,  the  true  and  only  God,  or  they  should  be  swept  off  when  the 
fulness  of  his  wrath  should  come  upon  them. 

"And  now,  we  can  behold  the  decrees  of  God  concerning  this  land,  that  it  is 
a  land  of  promise ;  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall  serve  God,  or 
they  shall  be  swept  off  when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  shall  come  upon  them. 
And  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  cometh  upon  them  when  they  are  ripened  in  iniquity. 

"For  behold,  this  is  a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands ;  wherefore 
he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve  God  or  shall  be  swept  off;  for  it  is  the 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


everlasting  decree  of  God.  And  it  is  not  until  the  fulness  of  iniquity  among  the 
children  of  the  land,  that  they  are  swept  off. 

"And  this  cometh  unto  you,  O  ye  Gentiles,  that  ye  may  know  the  decrees  of 
God — that  ye  may  repent,  and  not  continue  in  your  iniquities  until  the  fulness 
come,  that  ye  may  not  bring  down  the  fulness  of  the  wrath  of  God  upon 
you  as  the  inhabitants  of  the  land  have  hitherto  done. 

"Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall 
be  free  from  bondage,  and  from  captivity,  and  from  all  other  nations  under 
heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ,  who 
hath  been  manifested  by  the  things  which  we  have  written." 

It  would  be  interesting,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  instructive,  to 
follow  this  colony  of  people  in  their  migration  from  the  Old  World 
until  their  arrival  in  America,  the  land  which  the  Lord  had  promised 
to  them  for  an  inheritance. 

The  story  of  their  development  into  a  great  nation  is  told,  the 
building  of  many  cities ;  how  they  departed  from  the  way  of  the  Lord 
to  the  worship  of  idols,  the  wars  which  ensued,  because  of  conflict  for 
the  control  of  the  government  which  was  established,' and  their  final 
destruction  as  a  nation ;  but  time  will  not  permit. 

More  than  one  thousand  five  hundred  years  had  elapsed  since  the 
people  referred  to  had  departed  from  the  old  world,  when  another 
colony,  under  the  leadership  of  another  prophet,  left  Jerusalem  during 
the  reign  of  Zedekiah,  the  last  king  of  Judea,  and  after  many  wander- 
ings and  tribulations  they  crossed  the  great  waters  and  came  to  America. 
As  they  landed  upon  this  continent  the  Lord,  through  his  prophet, 
delivered  the  following  message  to  them.  I  read  this  because  I  desire 
that  you  shall  hear  it  as  it  is  and  understand  it.  The  prophet  who  had 
led  them  out,  in  referring  to  their  journeys,  said  : 

BLESSED  UNTO  THE  RIGHTEOUS 

"Notwithstanding  our  afflictions,  we  have  obtained  a  land  of  promise,  a  land 
vi  hich  is  choice  above  all  other  lands ;  a  land  which  the  Lord  God  hath  covenanted 
with  me  should  be  a  land  for  the  inheritance  of  my  seed.  Yea,  the  Lord  hath 
covenanted  this  land  unto  me  and  to  my  children  forever,  and  also  all  those 
who  should  be  led  out  of  other  countries  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

"Wherefore,  I,  Lehi,  prophesy  according  to  the  workings  of  the  Spirit  which 
is  in  me,  that  there  shall  none  come  unto  this  land  save  they  shall  be  brought 
by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

"Wherefore  this  land  is  consecrated  unto  him  whom  he  shall  bring.  And 
if  it  so  be  that  they  shall  serve  him  according  to  the  com'mandments  which  he 
hath  given,  it  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  them ;  wherefore,  they  shall  never 
be  brought  down  into  captivity;  if  so,  it  shall  be  because  of  iniquity;  for  if 
iniquity  shall  abound  cursed  shall  be  the  land  for  their  sakes,  but  unto  the 
righteous  it  shall  be  blessed  forever." 

As  these  latter  people  penetrated  and  explored  the  land  to  which 
they  had  come  they  report  that  they  found  a  portion  of  the  surface  of 
it  covered  with  the  bones  of  men  and  animals,  with  the  ruins  of  great 
cities  and  buildings,  a  land  which  they  say  had  been  populated  by  a 
people  as  numerous  as  the  hosts  of  Israel.  This  was  all  that  remained 
of  the  colony  which  had  come  from  Babylon  more  than  one  thousand 
five  hundred  years  before. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


15 


PROPHECY  FULFILLED 

The  history  of  this  latter  people,  who  also  became  numerous  and 
highly  civilized,  was  not  less  tragic  than  that  of .  their  predecessors. 
They  too  were  highly  favored  of  the  Lord.  In  their  weakness  they 
served  him  and  kept  his  commandments,  but  when  through  his  pro- 
tection and  blessing  they  had  become  wealthy  and  powerful  they  turned 
from  him  to  the  worship  of  idols,  and  refused  to  walk  in  the  old  paths 
or  listen  to  the  trumpet  which  called  them  back  to  God.  They  fought 
over  the  control  of  government  until  they  degenerated  into  the  tribal 
conditions  in  which  they  were  found  when  Columbus  landed  upon  the 
shores  of  the  new  world. 

The  time  had  arrived  when  the  Lord  would  again  bring  people  to 
this  continent,  when  he  was  to  again  undertake  the  establishment  of 
a  righteous  nation  upon  this  promised  land. 

More  than  two  thousand  years  before  Columbus  landed  at  San 
Salvador,  prophets  had  definitely  declared  his  coming;  more  than  two 
thousand  years  before  the  landing  of  the  pilgrims  at  Plymouth  the 
Lord  had  declared  that  they  should  come  that  they  might  be  free 
from  the  bonds  of  religious  intolerance  and  the  shackles  of  kingcraft, 
that  a  nation  of  free  men  might  be  established  here,  a  nation  over  which 
neither  kingcraft  nor  priestcraft  shall  ever  reign ;  a  nation  where  the 
majesty  and  authority  of  the  law,  which  God  our  Father  would  inspire 
the  people  themselves  to  enact  and  administer,  is  to  reign  supreme. 

OUR  SYSTEM  OF  GOVERNMENT 

Have  you  ever  thought,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  miracle 
of  the  establishment  of  this  government,  and  the  blessings  which 
you  enjoy  under  it  as  compared  with  other  people?  The  Lord  did 
not  give  the  dominance  of  the  United  States  to  a  certain  race,  that 
the  traditions,  language  and  prejudices  of  the  old  world  might  be 
established  here  as  they  were  in  all  of  the  great  country  to  the  south  of  us. 

To  the  devoted  faith  of  the  Puritan  separatists  of  New  England 
was  added  the  industry  and  patriotism  of  the  Dutch  reformers  who 
had  settled  at  New  York,  the  gallantry  and  chivalry  of  the  English 
cavaliers  of  Virginia,  and  the  light-hearted  energy  and  patriotism  of 
the  French  at  New  Orleans.  Protestants,  Catholics  and  people  without 
church  affiliations  united  together,  just  the  combination  of  elements 
to  give  us  the  Declaration  of  Independence  which  won  our  freedom, 
and  the  Constitution,  which  is  the  foundation  upon  which  our  system 
of  government  rests. 

These  men,  whom  the  old  world  referred  to  as  a  mob,  declared 
that  in  this  country  all  men  should  be  equal  before  the  law.  They 
declared  that  men  were  born  with  certain  rights  which  could  noft  in 
justice  be  taken  from  them,  among  which  was  the  right  to  worship 
God  according  to  the  dictates  of  conscience,  or  not  worship  at  all  if 
they  so  desired ;  that  all  men  were  entitled  to  life,  to  liberty,  the  pos- 


If, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


session  of  property,  freedom  of  speech  and  the  press,  and  above  all  and 
most  important,  that  they  should  enact  and  administer  their  own  laws 
and  that  they  should  not  be  deprived  of  any  of  these  privileges  without 
due  process  of  law.  The  most  sacred  privilege  granted  us  was  the 
right  of  franchise  by  which  every  citizen  was  entitled  to  cast  his 
ballot  for  the  men  who  were  to  represent  him  in  enacting  and  ad- 
ministering the  law.  It  is  upon  the  proper  use  of  this  sacred  heritage, 
bequeathed  to  us  by  our  fathers,  that  the  perpetuity  of  our  government 
depends.  It  may  declare  war  or  maintain  peace,  it  may  bring  peace  and 
good  order  to  society,  or  tribulation,  confusion  and  final  dissolution. 
It  controls  your  property  and  mine.  We  come  or  go  at  its  behest. 
Our  very  life  depends  upon  the  proper  use  of  it. 

A  PUBLISHED  APPEAL 

In  January  of  the  present  year  the  Presidency  of  the  Church 
published  an  appeal  to  the  members  of  the  Church  throughout  the 
world,  and  to  liberty-loving  people  everywhere,  from  which  I  desire 
briefly  to  read.    It  was  headed:    "Can  This  Be  True?" 

"Can  it  be  possible  that  reports  which  reach  us  concerning  the  lawlessness, 
immorality  and  graft  which  are  said  to  exist  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  other 
localities  in  our  state,  are  true? 

"Have  we  among  our  judges,  attorneys  and  peace  officers  those  who  regard 
these  iniquitous  offenses  against  society  with  apathy  and  indifference? 

"Are  we  to  believe  that  in  this  community  of  ours  large  sums  of  money  are 
regularly  collected  which  are  disbursed  by  trusted  agents  among  city,  county, 
state  or  federal  officers,  who  have  been  appointed  or  elected  by  the  voice  of 
the  people  to  hunt  down,  prosecute  and  rid  the  community  of  lawless  disturbers 
of  the  peace,  violate  the  trust  reposed  in  them,  and  for  money  seek  means  by 
which  these  criminals  may  be  liberated,  rather  than  convicted? 

"Do  men  with  brazen  effrontery  perjure  themselves  while  on  the  witness 
stand,  in  order  that  the  law  may  be  nullified  and  the  guilty  go  free?  Do  any  of 
our  judges,  knowing  this,  allow  the  perjurer  to  go  without  rebuke  or  punishment? 

"Are  we  losing  our  high  ideals  regarding  the  honor  of  men  and  the  virtue 
of  women?  Do  we  ignore  the  existence  of  houses  of  prostitution  and  assignation 
into  which  virtuous  women  and  innocent  girls  are  being  lured,  or  forcibly  taken, 
to  be  ruined  by  wicked  licentious  libertines  both  white  and  black? 

"Laws  which  are  enacted  for  the  protection  of  society  have  no  value  except 
when  they  are  administered  in  righteousness  and  justice,  and  they  cannot  be 
so  administrated  if  dishonest  men  occupy  administrative  offices. 

"The  Lord  says :  'When  the  wicked  rule,  the  people  mourn.'  Wise  men, 
good  men,  patriotic  men  are  to  be  found  in  all  communities,  in  all  political 
parties,  among  all  creeds.    None  but  such  men  should  be  chosen.    *    *  * 

"Without  beneficent  laws,  righteously  administered,  the  foundations  of 
civilization  crumble,  anarchy  reigns,  decay  and  dissolution  follow. 

"We  call  upon  all  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  .of  Latter-day 
Saints  throughout  the  world  to  honor  the  laws  of  God,  and  obey  and  uphold 
the  law  of  the  land  ;  and  we  appeal  to  good  men  and  women  everywhere,  re- 
gardless of  creed,  party  affiliation,  race  or  condition,  to  join  with  us  in  an  effort 
to  put  into  operation  the  words  of  Lincoln,  the  great  emancipator,  that  our 
country  may  continue  to  be  a  light  to  the  world,  a  loyal,  law-abiding,  God-fearing 
Nation. 

"Heber  J.  Grant, 
Anthony.  W.  Ivins, 
Charles  W.  Nibley, 

First  Presidency," 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


17 


HAVE  NOT  CHANGED 

Since  the  publication  of  that  which  I  have  just  read  it  would  appear 
that  conditions  have  not  changed  for  the  better. 

Another  period  has  arrived  when  the  people  of  the  United  States 
are  td  elect  men  who  are  to  represent  them  in  both  legislative  and 
administrative  branches  of  the  government,  both  state  and  national;  a 
time  when  the  citizenship  of  our  country  are  to  exercise  this  divine  right 
of  franchise.  If  reports  which  come  to  us  are  true,  vast  sums  of  money 
are  being  collected  to  be  used  for  the  purpose  of  influencing  the  voto 
of  the  people  in  favor  of  one  or  the  other  of  the  great  parties  that  are 
striving  for  the  control  of  government.  We  are  told  that  the  expend- 
itures will  be  limited  to  eight  millions  of  dollars.  We  are  also  informed 
that  this  limit  may  be  greatly  exceeded.  Can  it  be  possible  that  we  have 
reached  a  point  in  our  history  when  the  ballot,  this  sacred  heritage  which 
has  come  to  us  from  our  fathers,  has  become  a  thing  of  barter  and 
trade,  that  it  can  be  purchased  with  money?  Are  the  liberties  of  the 
American  people  on  the  auction  block  to  be  sold  to  the  highest  bidder  ? 
Have  we  lifted  up  a  golden  calf  (as  ancient  Israel  did)  to  which  the 
American  people  are  commanded  to  bow  down  in  worship  ?   God  forbid. 

To  my  mind  the  man  who  would  sell  his  vote  for  money  should 
forfeit  his  franchise  forever.  Is  the  man  who  sells  his  vote  less  guilty 
than  the  man  who  tenders  money  for  it?  Is  he  who  tenders  money 
less  guilty  than  the  individual  who,  having  knowledge  of  the  crime, 
enters  no  word  of  protest?  I  cannot  shift  the  responsibility  from  one  to 
the  other.    All  are  equally  guilty. 

Is  it  possible  that  during  the  last  ten  years  lawlessness  has  in- 
creased in  the  United  States  until  statistics  show  that  we  are  the  most 
lawless  civilized  nation  in  the  world  ?  Only  yesterday  the  public  press, 
our  own  press,  declared  that  a  large  number  of  policemen  in  the  city 
of  Philadelphia,  "the  City  of  Friends,"  a  city  established  under  the 
religious  impulses  of  one  of  the  most  devout  sects  of  the  world,  the  city 
of  my  mother's  birth,  the  city  that  provided  the  men  Under  whom  my 
early  life  was  tutored,  that  these  policemen,  chosen  to  protect  the  people 
from  the  acts  of  lawless  men,  are  under  arrest  charged  with  levying 
tribute  on  gangsters  of  the  underworld  for  protection  guaranteed  them 
by  the  police  who  were  under  oath  to  bring  them  to  justice.  From  the 
halls  of  Congress  to  the  town  constable  fraud  in  public  life  has  found 
its  way. 

CONDITION  NOT  HOPELESS 

Do  not  understand  me  to  infer  that  the  condition  of  our  country 
is  hopeless,  or  that  money  has  not  its  place  in  human  welfare.  My 
remarks  have  no  application  to  the  high-minded,  honest,  capable  men 
who  are  engaged  in  public  life,  and  there  are  many  of  them  in  both 
national  and  state  affairs.  I  believe  in  the  soul  of  the  American  people 
and  that  they  will  rise  in  their  majesty  when  the  truth  becomes  known 
and  drive  dishonest  men  from  the  temples  of  justice,    Lincoln  said: 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Let  the  people  know  the  truth  and  the  country  is  safe."  The  trouble 
is  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  get  the  truth  before  the  people. 

In  every  state  in  the  Union,  in  every  county  in  these  states,  there 
are  men  who  live  above  this  criticism,  patriotic,  true  Americans. 

Do  not  understand  that  I  decry  or  under-estimate  the  vast  good 
that  comes  to  humankind  from  the  use  of  money  and  the  proper  ac- 
quisition of  it  through  industry  and  economy,  but  when  it  is  used  to 
corrupt  the  politics  of  our  country,  to  purchase  the  honor  of  men,  the 
virtue  of  women,  or  to  interfere  with  and  influence  the  public  mind 
away  from  the  paths  of  justice  and  righteousness  it  then  becomes  the 
"root  of  all  evil." 

I  would  not  for  earthly  gain  alienate  the  friendship  of  the  many 
friends  which  I  have  and  through  acquaintance  with  whom  my  life  has 
been  enriched.  They  are  among  Catholics,  Protestants,  Jews  and 
people  professing  no  affiliation  with  the  church.  They  are  in  all 
political  parties ;  men  whom  I  love  because  of  their  manhood  and 
Americanism.  I  am  not  talking  politics.  I  have  no  candidate,  no 
political  interests  at  stake.  I  am  speaking  directly  to  the  people  of  the 
Church  of  which  I  am  a  member.  It  is  my  duty,  as  a  shepherd  of  the 
flock  of  Christ,  to  warn  them  of  the  danger  which  threatens;  and  if 
I  fail  in  my  duty  and  the  danger  comes  upon  them  and  they  perish,  the 
Lord  has  said  that  he  will  require  their  blood  at  my  hands,  and  at  the 
hands  of  every  other  shepherd  of  the  flock,  who,  knowing  his  duty, 
fails  to  perform  it. 

THE  MORMON  PIONEERS 

It  was  the  impulse  of  religion  that  brought  the  iMormon  pioneers 
to  these  valleys.  Among  them  my  early  life  was  passed.  It  was  their 
example  and  teaching  which  fixed  in  my  mind  the  ideals  that  have 
governed  my  life,  in  both  religious  and  civil  affairs.  They  taught  me 
that  an  office-seeker,  whether  for  political  or  church  advancement,  was 
a  dangerous  man.  They  taught  me  that  offices  of  trust  should  seek  the 
man  and  not  the  man  the  office;  that  men  of  unquestioned  integrity 
should  be  selected  for  public  trust. 

Profoundly  religious,  they  taught  me  to  hold  in  reverential  respect 
the  religion  of  other  people.  They  taught  me  that  the  institutions  of 
my  country  were  of  greater  value  than  human  life,  and  should  be 
upheld  and  defended  against  all  enemies,  be  they  foreign  or  domestic. 
They  were  not  egotists,  these  men  among  whom  my  youth  was  spent, 
whose  life  was  confined  to  their  own  restricted  environment;  they 
understood  the  past,  they  lived  for  the  present  and  saw  the  future. 
They  knew  that  other  men  found  the  Lord,  if  they  sought  him,  just  as 
they  found  him  here  in  the  solitudes  of  these  everlasting  hills.  They 
were  not  Pharisees  who  magnified  the  faults  of  others  while  blind  to, 
their  own  imperfections,  but  men  who  acknowledging  their  own  weak- 
nesses, spread  the  mantle  of  charity  over  those  of  their  fellows.  They 
were  not  men  who  sought  the  downfall  of  their  neighbor  that  they  might 
rise  to  greater  heights,  but  just  brave,  God-fearing  men  who  knew  that 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


19 


the  Lord  was  knocking  at  the  doors  of  the  hearts  of  all  men,  and  that 
if  they  would  only  keep  the  latchstring  on  the  outside,  as  it  always 
hung  on  their  cabin  doors,  the  Lord  would  come  in  and  bring  peace  to 
their  souls.  They  were  men  who  walked  in  the  old  paths,  the  paths 
which  our  Lord  and  Master  had  marked  out  for  us,  and  which,  if  we 
follow  them,  will  lead  us  back  into  his  presence. 

TO  THOSE  OLD  PATHS 

It  is  to  these  old  paths,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  call  you 
back ;  not  to  endure  the  hardships  which  they  endured ;  not  to  cut  the 
grain  which  grows  in  your  fields,  with  a  sickle,  and  to  thrash  it  with 
a  flail,  as  I  have  done  ;  not  to  cut  the  hay  which  grows  in  your  meadows, 
with  a  scythe,  not  to  study  your  lessons  by  a  tallow  dip  or  a  pine 
knot,  as  I  have  done,  because  there  was  nothing  better  to  be  had ;  not  to 
print  your  daily  paper  on  a  handpress,  or  travel  to  conference  with  an 
ox-team,  as  many  of  your  fathers  and  grandfathers  did.  Progress  and 
development  which  have  come  to  the  world  during  our  life-time  have 
made  these  things  obsolete,  and  we  do  not  desire  to  call  them  back. 
But  the  truth  does  not  change  with  time.  It  is  always  the  same.  The 
same  obligations  of  righteousness,  justice,  mercy  and  charity  which  have 
been  in  force  from  the  beginning  are  still  in  force.  There  is  no  other 
path  that  will  lead  us  back  to  Christ  our  Lord,  for  he  is  the  light,  the 
life  and  the  way,  and  it  is  his  word  that  I  have  quoted  to  you. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  you  who  familiarize  yourselves  with 
existing  conditions  know  that  I  have  not  exaggerated  or  ever-estimated 
the  danger  which  threatens  us.  The  cure  is  so  simple  and  so  easy,  it 
is  strange  that  we  do  not  readily  find  it — just  to  return  to  obedience 
to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  just  to  walk  in  those  old  paths  of  righteousness 
that  never  change.  If  we  do  so  they  will  lead  us  back  into  the  presence 
of  God  our  Father,  where  we  will  be  crowned  with  glory,  immortality 
and  eternal  life. 

I  pray  for  this,  for  you,  for  myself  and  for  all  good  men  and 
women,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

It  is  always  a  refreshing  sight  to  witness  the  large  congregation  of 
Latter-day  Saints  who  regularly  attend  these  conferences — men  and 
women  who  come  filled  with  a  determination  to  serve  the  Lord  and  to 
help  build  up  his  kingdom ;  who  know  in  their  souls  that  the  Lord 
has  spoken  in  these  last  days  through  his  servants,  that  he  has  revealed 
his  will  through  the  ministration  of  holy  angels,  heavenly  beings,  and 
that  he  has  established  his  priesthood  in  the  Church  with  divine  au- 
thority to  give  guidance  to  the  people. 

I  endorse  most  heartily  the  remarks  of  our  President,  Heber  J. 
Grant  and  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins.  They  are  for  our  benefit  and 
our  blessing  if  we  will  follow  them.  I  am  always  glad  to  report  that  the 
Church  is  growing,  that  it  is  increasing  in  numbers ;  and  I  believe  that 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


we  as  a  people  are  increasing  in  faith.  We  have  heard  from  the  Pres- 
ident as  to  the  good  work  you  are  performing  in  the  building  of  meeting- 
houses and  the  amount  of  tithing  of  the  Church  that  has  been  con- 
tributed for  that  purpose.  A  people  no  more  numerous,  no  more 
rich  than  we  are,  who  will  contribute  more  than  two  million  dollars 
a  year  for  the  building  of  meetinghouses  have  a  whole  lot  of  good  in 
them.  The  Latter-day  Saints  believe  their  religion  after  all.  We  do 
not  practice  it  as  we  should.  We  are  not  perfect  by  any  manner  of 
means.  But  we  and  our  fathers  before  us  are  of  those  who  have  listened 
to  the  voice  of  the  Spirit  and  are  really  converted  to  the  truth. 

A  MORE  LIBERAL  FEELING 

During  the  last  week  or  two  I  have  been  away  in  the  Northwestern 
States  mission,  visiting  with  President  Sloan,  and  I  have  noted  with 
great  pleasure  the  growth  and  development  of  the  work  in  that  section  of 
the  country.  I  have  noted,  too,  the  growth  of  a  more  liberal  feeling 
among  the  people  towards  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  might  almost  say 
-here  is  a  spiritual  awakening;  for  in  Idaho  the  governor  of  the  state 
and  other  officials  in  their  remarks,  made  plainly  manifest  that  they 
desire  spiritual  thought,  spiritual  teaching,  in  connection  with  their 
schools  and  colleges.  They  said  that  these  things  were  lacking  and  they 
were  glad  to  see  that  in  that  state  our  Church  was  fostering  spiritual 
development,  spiritual  thought.  Not  only  is  it  true  in  that  section  of 
our  land,  but  I  think  it  is  true  in  all  sections  of  it.  People  are  beginning 
to  learn  after  all  that  the  material  alone  is  not  sufficient,  and  that 
they  must  turn  unto  God. 

As  we  have  heard,  the  Lord  has  declared  that  the  people,  if  they 
are  to  be  maintained  on  this  land,  must  be  a  people  who  will  serve  the 
God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ.  And  I  believe  that  slowly  and 
gradually  there  is  a  more  liberal  spirit  growing  among  the  people,  with 
an  inclination  in  their  hearts  towards  the  things  of  God.  The  Lord 
will  bring  testimonies  which  will  foster  this  feeling.  After  the  testimony 
of  the  servants  of  God  comes  the  testimony  of  earthquakes,  the  testi- 
mony of  the  sea,  heaving  beyond  its  bounds,  through  perhaps  the  force 
of  terrific  winds ;  the  testimony  of  destruction  here  and  there.  These  I 
believe  will  be  more  manifest  and  will  more  and  more  bring  the  people 
to  a  realization  that  they  of  themselves  are  powerless,  and  that  they 
must  depend  as  a  people  and  as  a  nation  upon  God. 

NOT  SO  FAVORABLE 

We  are  delighted  to  know  that  neighbors  feel  so  well  towards  us. 
But  I  want  to  remark  here,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  they  have 
told  us  things  not  quite  so  favorable,  even  material  things.  They  go 
around  through  our  country  (and  there  will  be  tens  and  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  tourists  in  the  next  few  years,  traveling  all  over  our 
country,  north  and  south)  and  they  see  in  some  of  our  villages  and 
towns  the  poorest  kind  of  fences,  the  worst  gardens,  decaying  orchards 
and  an  abundance  of  weeds,  which  they  ought  not  to  see  at  all.  We 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY  21 


should  improve  and  beautify  Zion,  so  that  people  can  say  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  are  forward-looking,  up-to-date  people;  and  that  they 
have  their  homes,  their  gardens,  their  fences,  their  orchards  and  all 
pertaining  to  them  as  spick  and  span  as  you  could  find  anywhere  in 
the  country.  That  ought  to  be,  but  it  is  not  so  yet.  Therefore,  you 
sisters,  get  after  your  husbands  to  take  up  or  to  do  away  with  the  old 
pole  fences  and  put  something  else  there  that  looks  a  little  more  re- 
spectable and  modern. 

THE  CALL  FOR  MISSIONARIES 

The  favorable  sentiment  prevailing  throughout  the  country  con- 
cerning the  Latter-day  Saints  calls  for  more  missionaries.  Mission- 
aries are  wanted  everywhere.  You  bishops  of  wards  and  presidents  of 
stakes,  do  you  hear  me?  All  over  the  Church  the  call  is  to  you  for 
missionaries  and  still  more  missionaries.  Write  it  down  and  do  not 
forget  it. 

DREAM  MINES 

'We  have  letters  coming  to  us  in  the  President's  office  concerning 
mining  and  mines,  and  among  others,  "dream"  mines.  Too  many  of 
our  people,  after  thirty  or  forty  years  experience,  are  still  foolish 
enough  to  invest  money  in  "dream"  mines.  If  there  is  any  man  here 
or  anywhere  who  will  tell  me  that  a  "dream"  mine  has  ever  made 
money  or  is  a  success  financially  I  would  like  to  be  informed  of  it.  I 
have  never  heard  of  it. 

SPEND  YOUR  MONEY  WISELY 

So  our  advice  to  our  people  now,  as  it  always  has  been,  is  to  spend 
your  money  wisely,  not  foolishly.  Build  up  and  beautify  the  country; 
beautify  your  homes.  Spend  your 'money  where  you  know  it  is  going 
to  do  some  good.  But  mining,  as  President  Young  said  in  his  time, 
is  for  those  who  understand  it.  Of  course  mining  is  good  business. 
We  need  the  metals,  gold,  silver,  iron — they  are  all  good.  But  if  you 
have  a  farm,  you  tend  to  your  farm.  If  you  are  in  the  dairy  business 
attend  to  that.  Build  that  up.  Do  not  go  speculating  in  something 
that  you  know  nothing  about ;  you  are  apt  to  lose  your  money  every 
time.  I  speak  from  experience,  for  I  have  lost  some  myself,  though 
not  much ;  I  was  rather  cautious,  being  born  Scotch,  and  did  not 
venture  too  much.    But  I  lost  what  I  did  venture  in  mining. 

I  remember  talking  to  Philo  Farnsworth  at  least  forty  years  ago, 
he  was  a  successful  mining  man  at  that  time ;  and  I  said : 

"Philo,  I  am  thinking  of  investing  in  a  mine  out  at  Baker  City 
^ where  I  was  then  living)  ;  what  do  you  think  about  it?"  I  told  him 
of  the  kind  of  mine  it  was  represented  to  be. 

He  said,  "Well,  if  you  want  to  gamble,  it  is  all  right.  But  if  you 
really  want  to  gamble  find  a  faro  game.  There  are  only  fifty-two  cards 
in  a  deck,  so  that  in  a  faro  game  you  have  one  chance  in  fifty-two, 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


because  you  might  hit  the  right  card  and  there  are  only  fifty-two  of 
them.   But  in  the  mining  game  you  have  one  chance  in  a  hundred." 

I  took  his  advice  and  stayed  out  of  mining.  And  so,  I  repeat,  let 
mining  or  other  business  that  we  know  nothing  about  alone,  and  espe- 
cially "dream"  mines.  It  is  simply  a  wild  dream,  and  you  had  better 
let  it  alone. 

PEACE  IS  COMING 

The  winter  is  coming  on,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Always  we 
have  men  out  of  employment.  Let  me  call  the  attention  of  the  bishops 
of  wards  and  presidents  of  stakes,  the  leading  men  of  means  in  the 
communities,  to  the  importance  of  trying  to  provide  employment  in  all 
your  settlements,  towns  and  cities,  to  help  those  who  are  out  of  em- 
ployment. Provide  work  for  them  if  you  can.  If  each  one  would  try 
to  help  his  neighbor  a  little,  help  his  brother,  we  would  be  a  better 
community  and  there  would  be  more  satisfaction  and  peace  in  it.  That 
struggle  for  peace  down  through  all  the  ages,  which  has  been  sung 
about,  prayed  about  and  prophesied  about,  is  coming  still.  The  world 
is  getting  nearer  to  the  millennium.  There  may  be  terrible  catastrophies, 
terrible  judgments,  wonderful  things  coming  upon  the  earth  after  the 
testimony  of  the  elders ;  but  peace  also  is  coming.  Our  nation  is  striving 
for  it.  Other  nations  of  the  earth  are  signing  up  contracts,  which  may 
not  amount  to  so  much  now,  but  it  is  all  in  the  direction  of  peace,  and 
I  believe  that  the  time  will  actually  come  when  men  will  beat  their 
swords  into  ploughshares,  and  their  spears  into  pruninghooks,  and 
nation  will  not  take  up  war  against  nation,  neither  will  they  learn 
war  any  more.  That  time  is  coming,  that  blessed  time  that  Burns,  the 
poet,  150  years  ago  sang  of  when  he  wrote: 

"Then  let  us  pray  that  come  it  may 

As  come  it  will  for  a'  that — 
*    *    *    *  * 

That  Man  to  Man,  the  world  o'er, 
Shall  brothers  be  for  a'  that !" 

Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  On  the  Mountain  Top.' 
The  benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Superin- 
tendent of  Church  Schools. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  meeting  was  opened  promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.  by  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  who  announced  that  the  congregation  would  sing  the 
hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Nathan  Ricks. 

A  solo  was  sung  by  Mrs.  Mamie  Stark,  "My  faith  looks  up  to  Thee." 


ELDER  HUGH  J.  CANNON 


23 


ELDER  HUGH  J.  CANNON 

Former  President  of  the  Swiss  and  German  Mission 

It  will  not  be  possible,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  describe  my 
feelings  in  being  called  thus  suddenly  to  address  this  vast  congregation. 
I  sincerely  pray  that  the  Lord  will  illuminate  my  mind  while  I  occupy 
this  position. 

As  President  Grant  stated,  I  have  returned  rather  recently  from 
presiding  over  the  Swiss  and  German  Mission.  I  can  report  conditions 
in  that  field  as  being  very  favorable.  It  is  true  the  people  are  not  flocking 
to  the  Church  in  such  great  numbers  as  came  during  the  distressing 
years  immediately  succeeding  the  war,  but  still  we  are  making  very 
satisfactory  headway  there,  and  the  members  of  the  Church  are  faithful. 
I  think  it  would  not  be  possible  to  find  anywhere  a  body  of  saints  who 
are  more  exact  in  the  payment  of  their  tithes  and  offerings  than  are 
the  Swiss  and  German  people.  It  would  not  be  easy  nor  perhaps 
possible  to  find  a  people  who  are  more  willing  to  contribute  to  the 
missionaries.  Some  of  the  things  which  we  see  there  are  extremely 
touching.  My  heart  has  been  made  to  rejoice,  and  still  it  has  caused 
a  feeling  of  humility  to  come  over  me,  when  I  have  witnessed  what 
our  members  and  friends  are  willing  to  do  for  those  who  come  into 
their  midst  to  preach  the  gospel.  It  is  not  an  uncommon  thing  for 
members  of  the  Church  to  share  their  last  crust  of  bread  with  the 
missionaries.  I  have  known  of  cases  where  men  and  women  have  sat 
up  all  night  in  chairs  so  that  the  elders  might  have  a  comfortable  bed 
in  which  to  sleep.  That  spirit  is  broadcast  among  the  German-speaking 
people,  both  in  the  Swiss-German  and  in  the  German-Austrian  missions  ; 
and  when  we  see  their  fidelity,  their  faith,  their  willingness  to  do  for 
us,  naturally  it  is  a  spur  to  our  missionaries  to  do  the  very  best  they 
can. 

The  elders  laboring  in  those  fields  are  sincerely  anxious  to  spread 
the  gospel  truth.  I  have  been  impressed  with  the  quality  of  our  repre- 
sentatives who  have  come  out  into  the  world.  Of  course  I  am  better 
acquainted  with  those  who  have  come  to  the  particular  field  where  I 
presided.  They  proved  to  be  a  very  faithful  and  devoted  band  of  breth- 
ren, willing  to  give  their  all  for  the  advancement  of  truth.  In  my 
opinion  there  is  a  noticeable  improvement  in  the  quality  of  missionaries 
now  going  into  the  field,  and  this  thought  has  impressed  me  very  deeply  : 
the  better  educated  the  missionary  is,  speaking  generally,  the  more 
faith  he  has.  We  have  had  quite  a  number  of  men  in  the  field  who 
were  college  graduates,  men  who  have  taken  their  degrees  from  the 
Universities  of  the  State  and  of  the  Church,  and  those  men,  I  can  say, 
without  an  exception,  were  unusual  missionaries.  It  was  from  their 
ranks  very  largely  that  district  presidents  were  chosen.  Naturally  this 
was  not  always  the  case,  because  sometimes,  while  they  had  the  educa- 
tion, they  did  not  have  the  gift  of  handling  men  as  did  some  others  who 
had  not  made  quite  so  much  progress  along  scholastic  lines.  But 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


those  who  had  taken  their  college  degrees  were  a  very  fine  body  of 
brethren.  So  I  have  come  home  prepared  to  recommend  to  all  our 
young  boys  that  so  far  as  possible  they  should  finish  their  university 
work,  though  not  necessarily  before  they  go  on  missions.  Sometimes  it 
fits  into  the  scheme  of  things  better  if  they  go  before  they  have  finished, 
but  I  think  our  young  men  should  have  the  ambition  to  graduate  from 
our  universities,  or  at  least  go  as  far  in  educational  lines  as  it  is 
possible  for  them  to  go. 

I  am  impressed,  as  has  already  been  said,  with  the  excellent  quality 
of  the  men  who  go  out,  and  impressed  also  with  the  sacrifice  which 
their  parents  are  willing  to  make  in  order  to  keep  them  in  the  field. 
I  recall  now  a  mother  whose  letter  to  her  sons  was  shown  me.  It  was 
my  practice  to  write  twice  a  year  to  the  parents  of  the  missionaries  in 
the  field.  One  couple  had  two  sons  there,  one  already  a  district 
president,  the  other  subsequently  to  become  one.  I  wrote  complimenting 
them  on  the  character  of  their  sons  and  telling  of  the  splendid  work 
they  were  doing.  I  saw  a  letter  from  the  mother  written  to  her  boys 
in  which  she  said,  "When  Brother  Cannon's  letter  came  I  was  washing, 
I  was  tired,  and  felt  as  though  I  could  not  possibly  face  the  duties  that 
were  upon  me.  But  when  that  letter  came  I  went  into  the  other  room 
and  read  it  and  re-read  it  and  cried  for  pure  joy." 

"That  is  a  feeling  which  people  in  the  world  cannot  understand, 
how  a  woman  can  cry  with  joy  because  she,  in  connection  with  her 
husband,  has  to  send  her  sons  about  seventy  dollars  a  month  and  be 
deprived  of  their  association  and  the  help  which  they  could  give  on  the 
farm.  But  she  did  cry  and  it  was  for  pure  joy.  We  who  have  had 
similar  experiences  can  understand  her  feelings.  All  who  are  here 
know  that  her  joy  was  genuine  and  real.  Many  cases  of  that  kind  might 
be  related  if  time  permitted. 

Our  missionary  boys  are  hedged  about  here  at  home,  they  are 
watched  over  with  the  utmost  care  as  they  grow  to  maturity.  Then 
they  go  out  into  the  world,  many  of  them  to  countries  where  alcoholic 
beverages  are  almost  as  easy  to  obtain  as  water,  and  yet  these  boys 
do  not  drink.  They  are  surrounded  by  men,  and  in  this  modern  age,  by 
women,  very  many  of  whom  use  tobacco,  still  these  boys  do  not  smoke. 
They  come  in  contact  with  people  whose  moral  ideals  are  not  high, 
men  and  even  women  who  do  not  look  upon  virtue  and  morality  as  we 
look  upon  it.  They  are  shining  marks  for  the  dissolute,  for  the  wicked, 
for  those  who  would  lead  the  servants  of  the  Almighty  astray;  and 
still  they  remain  pure  and  clean  and  come  home  with  heads  erect,  able 
to  look  any  man,  any  woman,  any  child  in  the  face.  That  is  the 
character  of  missionaries  with  whom  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  labor. 

I  should  like  to  say  a  word  or  two  about  the  missionary  after 
his  return.  While  he  is  in  the  field  he  is  watched  over  by  his  mission 
president  and  by  his  district  president.  His  parents,  his  bishop,  per- 
haps the  president  of  his  stake,  are  writing  letters  to  him,  urging  him 
to  do  right.  They  are  praying  for  him.  He  is  engaged  in  his  Master's 
service.    He  realizes  that  he  is  no  longer  representing  himself,  but  is 


BLUER  HUGH  J.  CANNON 


25 


representing  a  great  cause,  and  he  feels  ashamed  to  do  things  which  are 
wrong.  He  is  careful,  is  humble.  His  whole  thought  is  concentrated 
cn  righteousness  and  he  learns  to  live  it.  Then  at  the  end  of  his  mission 
he  is  released  to  come  home.  You  know  what  happens.  The  bishops, 
I  am  sure,  do  all  they  can  to  find  a  place  for  him.  But  it  is  often  a 
fact  that  this  boy  who  has  been  the  biggest  figure  in  the  circle  which 
he  occupied,  after  his  return,  drops  completely  into  the  background,  too 
frequently  out  of  sight.  I  haven't  any  criticism  to  offer  to  the  officers 
of  the  stakes  and  wards.  I  know  from  experience  how  difficult  it  is 
to  find  employment,  either  secular  or  in  a  Church  capacity,  for  this 
army  of  men  returning  from  the  mission  field.  It  is  not  always  easy, 
sometimes  not  possible,  to  put  them  into  positions  of  responsibility. 
But  I  do  think  they  are  deserving  of  all  the  thought  and  care  and 
attention  that  we  can  possibly  give  them.  There  is  a  reaction,  a  relaxation, 
when  they  are  released.  Perhaps  many  of  you  know  how  it  is  to  be 
engaged  in  active  service  and  then  all  at  once  not  have  anything  to  do. 
You  frequently  have  that  experience  right  here  at  home.  When  you 
have  had  a  difficult  task  to  perform,  a  sermon  to  deliver  perhaps,  which 
weighed  heavily  upon  your  mind  and  frightened  you,  a  spirit  of  relax- 
ation came  over  you  when  that  work  was  done.  That  is  the  situation 
with  our  missionaries. 

I  had  a  young  man  in  the  field  say  to  me  once,  "If  I  ever  get  into 
serious  trouble  it  will  be  on  Tuesday."  I  was  a  little  surprised  at  the 
statement  and  asked,  "Why?"  He  said,  "Because  I  am  keyed  up  the 
latter  part  of  the  week.  Knowing  I  have  to  speak  on  Sunday,  I  am 
humble  and  prayerful ;  I  plead  with  the  Lord  to  help  me  with  my  work, 
that  it  may  be  done  well,  and  then  on  Sunday  night  after  that  sermon 
is  finished  I  am  inclined  to  relax.  Monday  finds  me  completely  re- 
laxed, and  after  Monday  night  or  Tuesday  I  am  the  weakest  that  I 
am  during  the  entire  week.  After  Tuesday  I  begin  to  worry  about 
Sunday  again." 

This,  in  my  judgment,  illustrates  the  general  condition  of  our  re- 
turned missionaries.  They  are  relaxed.  They  often  feel,  and  of  course 
improperly,  that  they  are  no  longer  representing  a  people,  but  are  merely 
human  individuals,  simply  units  in  the  Church,  and  what  they  do  will 
not  reflect  serious  discredit  upon  the  Church.  That  splendid  and 
sustaining  thought  which  was  with  them  during  their  missions,  that 
they  must  be  true  because  of  the  Church,  leaves  them  when  they 
return  home. 

I  would  like  to  suggest  to  parents  that  when  your  'boys  come 
home  you  do  not  feel  that  their  feet  are  safely  anchored  to  the  rock 
of  truth,  but  feel  that  they  need  your  prayers  just  as  much  at  home  and 
perhaps  more  than  they  did  in  the  mission  field ;  feel  that  you  should 
watch  over  them,  talk  with  them  and  plead  with  them  just  as  much  as 
before  they  went,  or  during  the  time  they  were  absent.  I  may  take 
an  exaggerated  view  of  this  matter,  but  it  seems  to  me  that  the  returned 
missionary  is  one  of  the  biggest  problems  the  Church  has  before  it, 
I  would  not  infer  that  any  large  percentage  of  our  misisonaries  go 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


astray.  That  is  not  the  case,  but  if  we  take  time  to  consider  the  matter, 
we  will  see  that  more  of  them  become  careless  after  they  come  home,  a 
far  greater  number,  than  do  wrong  in  the  mission  field.  The  per- 
centage of  those  who  fall  into  serious  transgression  in  the  mission  field 
is  very  small,  almost  insignificant.  Of  course  it  is  larger  than  it  should 
be,  for  as  long  as  one  man  goes  astray  the  number  is  too  large,  but  in 
this  particular  we  have  little  cause  for  concern.  At  home,  while  the 
number  of  delinquents  is  not  extremely  large  it  far  exceeds  the  de- 
linquency abroad.  And  so  I  say  in  behalf  of  the  returned  missionary, 
to  bishops  and  ward  and  stake  officers,  to  those  who  preside  in  quorums, 
and  particularly  to  parents,  watch  the  returned  missionary,  try  to  make 
him  feel  that  there  is  a  place  for  him,  perhaps  not  a  place  where  he  can, 
preside,  but  that  there  is  a  place  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
here  just  as  much  as  there  is  abroad.  He  comes  home  full  of  faith, 
bearing  testimony  that  he  knows  this  message  is  true,  and  he  does 
know  it.  I  have  heard  boys  say  that  they  know  just  as  well  as  the 
Prophet  Joseph  knew,  that  he  saw  the  Father  and  the  Son.  They 
do  not  understand  the  gospel  as  he  did ;  they  do  not  comprehend  its 
real  significance  as  did  the  Prophet,  but  the  knowledge  of  its  divinity 
is  theirs.  So  I  pray  for  them  and  pray  for  us  all,  that  we  may  under- 
stand the  magnitude  of  this  great  work  which  is  entrusted  to  our  care, 
and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  have  been  very  much  interested  in  the  remarks  of  this  conference 
thus  far,  especially  those  referring  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  the 
training  of  missionaries.  Last  week  more  than  sixty  young  men  and 
women  left  the  Missionary  Home  for  the  mission  field.  During  one 
examination  period,  the  Word  of  Wisdom  was  discussed,  and  from 
the  statements  made  it  was  apparent  that  such  teachings  have  had 
a  guiding  influence  in  their  lives.  One  young  lady,  a  mere  slip  of  a 
girl,  made  this  statement :  "The  Lord  cannot  work  with  those  who  are 
unclean  mentally  or  physically."  Living  according  to  the  teachings  of 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  gives  us  a  fitting  background  to  prepare  us  to 
receive  his  blessings.  I  am  afraid  there  are  a  great  many  of  us  who 
have  not  learned  this  one  lesson ;  it  is  not  a  new  doctrine,  but  is  em- 
bodied in  the  teachings  of  the  Savior  and  the  apostles  of  old.  We  read 
in  I  Cor.  111:16,  17,  18: 

"Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple  of  God,  and  that  the  Spirit  of  God 
dwelleth  in  you? 

"If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God,  him  shall  God  destroy;  for  the  temple 
of  God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are. 

"Let  no  man  deceive  himself.  If  any  man  among  you  seemeth  to  be  wise 
in  this  world,  let  him  become  a  fool,  that  he  may  be  wise." 

If  we  could  be  so  impressed  with  these  thoughts  that  they  would 
always  be  manifest  in  our  thoughts  and  actions,  our  faith  would  be 
increased  and  our  labors  extended  to  the  benefit  not  only  of  ourselves 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


27 


but  our  associates  and  fellow  Church  workers.  Has  it  occurred  to 
us  that  perhaps  many  blessings  needful  for  our  welfare  are  withheld 
from  us?  The  Lord  has  commanded  that  we  support  the  laws  of  the 
land  because  the  constitutional  laws  of  the  land  make  us  free.  In  the 
days  of  Kirtland,  the  Lord  said  he  was  not  well  pleased  with  many 
who  were  in  the  Church. 

"Were  it  not  for  the  transgressions  of  my  people,  speaking  concerning 
the  Church  and  not  individuals,  they  might  have  been  redeemed  even  now. 

"But  behold,  they  have  not  learned  to  be  obedient  to  the  things  which  I 
required  at  their  hands,  but  are  full  of  all  manner  of  evil,  *  *  *  and  are 
not  united  according  to  the  union  required  by  the  law  of  the  celestial  kingdom." 

Are  we  as  individuals  seeking  to  be  united  as  a  Church  ?  Are  we 
exemplary  in  our  teachings  by  word  of  mouth  and  in  our  actions? 
We  need  only  to  look  about  us  to  see  on  every  hand  a  tendency  to  break 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Perhaps  as  individuals  we  feel  that  because 
we  are  trying  to  live  according  to  this  law  we  are  meeting  the  require- 
ments of  the  law,  but  to  those  who  have  received  the  priesthood  comes 
also  a  responsibility  of  not  only  complying  with  the  law  as  individuals 
but  of  laboring  unceasingly  with  those  who  are  careless  or  indifferent, 
for  Zion  cannot  be  built  up  unless  it  is  by  the  principles  of  the  law  of 
the  celestial  kingdom.  Let  us  remember  that  we  are  "temples  of  the 
living  God"  and  that  God  cannot  work  with  us  when  we  are  unclean 
mentally  or  physically. 

The  Word  of  Wisdom  makes  this  clear  to  us  and  offers  a  most 
wonderful  promise,  "adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the  weak  and  the 
weakest  of  all  saints  who  are  or  can  be  called  saints,"  and  we  are 
assured  that  through  obedience  we  shall  be  made  strong,  mentally, 
spiritually  and  physically.  Let  us  study  it  and  so  apply  its  principles 
in  our  daily  lives  that  the  influence  thereof  will  be  felt  throughout  the 
land.  Sometimes  we  become  impatient  because  the  results  we  hoped  for 
are  not  apparent  immediately ;  sometimes  in  our  zeal  we  make  mistakes 
of  judgment — it  may  be  in  business  matters,  our  farming  operations, 
or  in  the  conduct  of  our  community  affairs — if  we  are  living  according 
to  the  laws  of  God  we  shall  have  the  spirit  of  discernment  and  under 
the  guiding  influence  of  that  spirit  will  find  that  such  experiences  are 
as  bread  cast  upon  the  water,  for  after  many  days  we  shall  find  it  to  be 
a  blessing,  "for  the  Spirit  of  God  knoweth  the  things  of  God  and 
the  spirit  of  man  knoweth  only  the  things  of  man."  When  we  learn  as 
a  Church  to  apply  these  teachings,  we  will  overcome  such  difficulties,  and 
happiness  will  be  our  lot;  for  we  shall  do  away  with  fault-finding, 
contention,  and  indifference,  and  in  the  spirit  and  power  of  the  holy 
priesthood  we  shall  lend  a  helping  hand  to  those  who  find  it  difficult  to 
meet  the  requirements  of  the  laws  of  God,  especially  the  young  men  and 
women  who  are  now  living  in  an  age  of  freedom,  more  so  than  in  any 
other  period  of  the  world's  history.  The  Lord  never  intended  that  they 
should  not  have  pleasure,  for  "man  is  that  he  might  have  joy" ;  that 
their  enjoyment  might  be  wholesome  it  is  necessary  that  they  be 
properly  guarded,  for  "truly  the  light  is  sweet,  and  a  pleasant  thing  jt 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  for  the  eyes  to  behold  the  sun."  We  sow  the  seed  in  the  spring- 
time but  know  not  what  the  harvest  will  be  in  the  fall  ;  the  result  is 
generally  measured  by  the  faith,  the  diligence,  and  the  labor  we  put 
forth.  This  has  always  been  the  law  and  will  be  until  the  purposes  of 
the  Lord  are  fulfilled.  A  writer  of  the  Old  Testament  expresses  tht 
thought  beautifully  as  follows  in  the  11th  chapter  of  Ecclesiastes : 

"Cast  thy  bread  upon  the  waters :  for  thou  shalt  find  it  after  many  days. 

"In  the  morning  sow  thy  seed,  and  in  the  evening  withhold  not  thine  hand : 
for  thou  knowest  not  whether  shall  prosper,  either  this  or  that,  or  whether 
they  both  shall  be  alike  good. 

"Truly  the  light  is  sweet,  and  a  pleasant  thing  it  is  for  the  eyes  to  behold 
the  sun: 

"But  if  a  man  live  many  years,  and  rejoice  in  them  all;  yet  let  him  remember 
the  days  of  darkness ;  for  they  shall  be  many.    All  that  cometh  is  vanity. 

"Rejoice,  O  young  man,  in  thy  youth;  and  let  thy  heart  cheer  thee  in  the 
days  of  thy  youth,  and  walk  in  the  ways  of  thine  heart,  and  in  the  sight  of 
thine  eyes:  but  know  thou,  that  for  all  these  things  God  will  bring  thee  into 
judgment. 

"Therefore  remove  sorrow  from  thy  heart,  and  put  away  evil  from  thy 
flesh :  for  childhood  and  youth  arc  vanity." 

That  we  may  more  nearly  meet  these  conditions  a  re-adjustment 
has  been  made  in  our  priesthood  and  recreational  activities.  The  Sab- 
bath morning — the  beginning  of  the  Sabbath  Day — has  been  designated 
as  the  study  and  recitation  period  for  religious  exercises.  During  the 
Sabbath  School  period  we  should  be  free  from  cares,  our  labors  should 
be  put  away  and  our  hearts  turned  to  the  things  of  God.  Provision  is 
made  that  from  the  oldest  to  the  youngest  all  may  come  under  this 
influence ;  the  whole  family  may  go  in  a  body  and  find  spiritual  activity 
suitable  to  their  age  and  condition  in  life,  with  the  influence  of  the 
priesthood  of  God  the  controlling  power. 

Tuesday  night  has  been  set  aside  as  a  time  for  planning  and  re- 
porting on  priesthood,  Church,  and  community  activities.  It  is  desirable, 
therefore,  that  each  person  holding  the  priesthood,  whether  a  deacon 
or  a  high  priest,  have  some  specific  work  assigned  to  him  each  week, 
"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn  his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office 
in  which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence." 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  a  testimony  of  his  Gospel,  that  I  am  per- 
mitted to  labor  in  his  great  cause  in  authority  of  his  holy  priesthood 
which  has  been  conferred  upon  me  through  his  authorized  servants. 
I  rejoice  in  this  work  and  in  the  opportunity  I  have  of  working  with 
you  in  the  furtherance  of  his  Gospel.  May  we  ever  seek  to  keep  his 
commandments  and  strive  earnestly  to  do  our  part,  that  we  may  magnify 
our  calling,  is  my  prayer,  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


29 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren-  and  sisters,  that  I  may  be  inspired 
by  the  Lord,  and  to  that  end  I  ask  for  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers. 

In  the  missionary  work  in  which  I  am  engaged  it  is  always  re- 
freshing and  is  a  very  great  inspiration  to  us  to  come  to  conference  and 
to  get  into  contact  with  the  body  of  the  Church  and  its  leaders.  You 
realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  frequently  for  six  months  at  a 
time  we  are  on  the  firing  line.  We  are  away  from  the  wards  and  the 
stakes  with  their  activities,  and  out  of  contact,  except  of  course  by  cor- 
respondence, with  the  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church  and  that 
which  is  going  on  at  home.  Therefore,  I  say  again  it  is  refreshing  and 
inspirational,  and  I  think  is  of  great  benefit  to  the  work  that  we  are 
endeavoring  to  carry  forward,  that  we  should  assemble  with  you  in 
conference.    I  thank  the  Lord  for  this  privilege. 

I  feel  especially  thankful  to  the  Lord  today  for  my  membership 
in  this  Church.  I  feel  especially  thankful  to  him  for  the  assurance 
that  I  have  in  my  heart  that  the  gospel  is  true.  I  thank  the  Lord  that 
I  am  not  in  doubt,  for  I  find  a  great  many  people  in  the  world  in  doubt 
concerning  the  means  and  the  way  of  salvation.  I  wish  to  bear  you  my 
testimony  that  I  do  know  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,  is  restored  to  the  earth  in  this  day  and 
age.  I  do  know  that  the  Lord  spoke  to  Joseph  Smith  and  that  he 
raised  him  up  and  made  of  him  a  prophet  through  whom  he  effected 
this  great  restoration. 

I  sense  the  responsibility  of  preaching  the  gospel  of  salvation  unto 
the  children  of  men,  for  as  I  peruse  the  scripture  I  find  that  it  is  the 
intention  of  the  Lord  that  the  gospel  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world 
for  a  witness  unto  all  nations,  and  he  has  decreed  that  it  should  be 
before  he  should  come  again  to  earth.  That  responsibility  rests  upon 
us  as  a  Church.  Those  who  hold  the  priesthood  hold  it  for  the  purpose 
of  administering  in  the  things  that  pertain  to  the  salvation  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  as  well  as  themselves. 

I  rejoice  in  the  faithful  labors  of  the  missionaries  who  are  sent  into 
the  field.  It  is  marvelous  to  me  as  I  contemplate  that  year  after  year 
we  keep  up  the  great  force  that  we  have  out  there ;  that  the  brethren  at 
home  are  able  to  find  the  young  men  to  fill  the  vacancies  caused  by 
the  release  of  those  who  are  in  the  field.  When  I  contemplate  the 
conditions  of  the  world  today  and  the  environments  that  encroach  upon 
us  as  a  Church,  the  evil  if  you  please  (not  all  that  is  in  the  world  is 
good — and  there  are  many  temptations  that  our  young  folks  are  beset 
with  in  their  working  hours  and  in  their  school  life  and  everywhere  that 
they  mingle),  I  marvel  that  out  of  this  comparatively  small  body  of 
people,  when  you  come  to  compare  it  with  the  world  at  large,  the  Lord 
is  able  to  select  and  send  out  that  great  number  of  young  men  and 
young  women  who  are  worthy  to  bear  his  name  and  to  preach  the 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


principles  of  the  everlasting  gospel  to  the  people  of  the  world.  They 
do  not  all  come  prepared,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  They  are  not  all 
versed  in  the  scriptures.  A  great  deal  of  the  teaching  they  have  received 
at  home  has  been  along  lines  that  do  not  particularly  qualify  them  for 
preaching  the  gospel.  But  they  come  with  faith  in  their  hearts,  they 
come  with  a  desire  to  serve,  and  the  vast  majority  of  them  come  with 
a  strong  testimony  that  the  gospel  is  true ;  and  they  teach  it  from  that 
standpoint.  They  teach  it  as  though  they  know  whereof  they  speak. 
They  have  faith  that  the  principles  of  the  gospel  that  they  are  sent  to 
teach  are  indeed  true  and  a  means  o»f  salvation  unto  our  Father's 
children. 

We  have,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  a  message  of  repentance  to 
declare  to  the  world  today.  I  rejoice  in  the  teachings  of  this  conference 
so  far,  and  in  the  not  uncertain  terms  in  which  we  as  a  people  have  been 
made  to  know  the  dangers  that  beset  our  paths,  and  the  certain  call  of 
repentance  that  has  come  to  us.  I  feel  that  we  should  look  things  squarely 
in  the  face  as  they  exist  in  the  world  today  and  not  let  ourselves  sleep 
in  the  idea  and  the  thought  that  because  we  are  members  of  the  Church 
we  are  safe,  or  that  because  we  are  prosperous  all  is  well. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  report  of  the  President  of  the  Church 
today  regarding  the  great  prosperity  that  is  attending  the  Church,  mak- 
ing possible  the  great  building  campaign  that  is  being  carried  on.  But 
there  are  other  things  in  the  Church,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  touch 
our  lives  and  we  should  look  to  them  as  well,  for  the  Savior  said : 

"For  what  is  a  man  profited  if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world  and  lose 
his  own  soul?" 

And  again  when  the  disciples  asked  him  which  was  the  greatest  in 
the  kingdom  of  heaven,  he  placed  a  little  child  in  their  midst  and  said 
unto  them : 

"Except  ye  be  converted,  and  become  as  little  children,  ye  shall  not  enter 
into  the  kingdom  of  heaven." 

Become  converted  to  what?  Speaking  in  a  large  sense,  converted 
to  the  fact  that  God  is,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world ;  converted  to  that  extent  that  we  can  exercise  an  implicit  faith 
in  God  and  in  the  saving  principles  of  his  gospel  that  he  has  restored 
to  the  earth  for  our  benefit  and  for  our  good  and  for  our  salvation. 
Specifically  it  means,  being  converted  to  the  gospel.  Are  we  as  a 
people  converted  to  the  necessity  of  living  the  Word  of  Wisdom? 
Except  we  become  converted  sincerely  and  in  the  same  spirit  that  a 
little  child  is  converted  and  is  humble  and  receives  without  qualification 
the  teachings  of  his  father — unless  we  become  so  converted  to  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  and  the  principles  of  honesty,  of  justice,  of  brotherly 
kindness,  of  love  and  of  tolerance  towards  all  men — I  fear  we  are  still 
barring  ourselves  from  participation  in  an  ultimate  exaltation  in  the 
kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

I  deplore  the  fact  that  there  is  evil  existing,  but  I  cannot  ignore  it. 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


31 


my  brethren  and  sisters.  This  evil,  thank  the  Lord,  does  not  exist  to 
the  same  extent  among  those  who  are  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  as,  it  exists  in  the  world.  We  find  unchastity,  immorality, 
lack  of  temperance,  lack  of  reverence  for  God,  or  for  man,  or  for  law. 
We  find  men  imbued  with  the  idea  that  all  is  right  if  they  can  get  by 
with  it.  But  it  is  not,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  The  Lord  will  not  be 
mocked,  and  he  has  given  us  a  plan  which,  he  expects  us  to  live  up  to. 
I  pray  to  him  that  I  may  be  sincere  all  the  days  of  my  life.  The 
greatest  anxiety  is  that  I  may  not  falter  by  the  wayside,  that  my  faith 
may  remain  firm  and  that  my  testimony  may  grow  and  be  strong ;  and 
after  that  I  pray  for  my  loved  ones.  I  have  passed  through  peculiar 
experiences  in  my  life  and  have  met  sorrow  by  reason  of  having1 
to  lay  away  my  loved  ones.  But  as  I  contemplate  those  who  have  gone 
to  the  great  beyond  in  their  innocence  I  would  ten  thousand  times 
rather  that  they  should  all  go  than  that  they  should  make  shipwreck  of 
their  faith.  What  would  it  profit  me  if  they  were  to  gain  all  the  wealth 
of  the  world  or  all  the  education  in  the  world  or  all  the  honors  of  the 
world,  and  lose  their  salvation"  in  the  kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven  ? 
It  would  bring  to  me  only  sorrow. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  I  have  of  the  gospel  and  the  oppor- 
tunity that  has  come  to  me  to  labor  in  the  ministry  for  those  who  are 
in  darkness.  My  heart  goes  out  to  our  Father's  children  who  are  in  the 
world.  I  do  not  censure  them  because  of  the  conditions  which  I  have 
explained ;  I  only  feel  sorry  for  them  and  have  an  overwhelming  desire 
to  carry  to  them  the  uplifting  principles  of  this  great  gospel,  and 
to  carry  them  in  such  a  way  that  my  testimony  might  carry  conviction 
to  their  hearts  that  they  are  true.  That  is  the  "greatest  desire  that  I 
have  in  the  world. 

In  my  ministry  I  have  tried  to  imbue  the  young  missionaries  who 
are  laboring  with  me  and  who  have  labored  with  me  in  the  past,  with 
this  thought,  that  if  they  will  take  care  of  the  work  in  the  field  and 
labor  for  the  uplift  of  our  Father's  children  they  need  not  put  in  any 
time  worrying  about  what  kind  of  an  impression  they  will  make  when 
they  come  home.  Something  has  been  said  here  today  concerning  the 
danger  that  besets  the  missionaries  upon  their  return  home,  and  the 
thought  has  been  voiced  that  some  provision  should  be  made  to  give 
them  something  to  do  in  the  Church.  I  have  tried  to  impress  them 
with  the  idea  that  the  Church  is  very  well  officered  and  very  well 
manned,  and  perhaps  there  may  be  no  available  place  for  them  even 
as  officers  in  an  auxiliary  organization  when  they  get  home.  I  try  to 
impress  upon  them  the  idea  that  the  Church  is  very  much  in  need  of 
honest  good  members.  No  one  can  deprive  them  of  being  that  no 
matter  how  little  they  might  be  called  upon  to  do.  They  can  labor 
zealously  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  They  can  set 
examples  worthy  of  imitation.  They  can  bear  their  testimony  to  their 
fellow  men.  They  can  put  themselves  in  a  position  to  be  useful.  And 
even  in  the  auxiliary  organizations,  as  I  have  observed  them  in  the 
little  contact  I  have  had  with  them,  one  of  the  crying  needs  is  for  good 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

•4 

membership.  We  are  pretty  well  officered,  but  we  need  one  hundred 
per  cent  good  membership  in  all  of  these  auxiliary  organizations  of  the 
Church,  and  each  missionary  who  goes  home  is  qualified,  if  he  will  but 
continue  in  the  spirit  with  which  he  has  labored  out  there,  to  be  a 
splendid  member  in  any  organization  in  the  Church  or  in  any  society 
that  is  uplifting  in  the  world. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  understand  our  duties  in  the 
Church  and  help  us  to  perform  them  faithfully,  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
There  comes  to  my  mind  a  little  couplet  that  I  learned  as  a  child : 

"Lord,  how  delightful  'tis  to  see, 
An  whole  assembly  worship  thee." 

We  who  are  here  this  afternoon  have  come,  I  believe,  with  the 
desire  and  purpose  to  worship  our  Father  in  humility.  No  one  could 
be  in  a  meeting  of  this  kind  without  being  deeply  impressed  with  the 
spirit  and  power  that  is  here ;  without  being  impressed  with  the  counsel, 
advice,  and  testimony  that  have  been  given  regarding  the  progress 
of  this  great  Church  of  ours. 

I  want  to  add  a  little  to  what  my  brother  has  said  concerning  those 
missionaries  who  return  home.  I  called  attention  to  this  matter  at 
one  time  when  I  was  attending  conference  in  a  little  town  in  Southern 
Utah,  because  I  knew  bf  two  cases  that  had  happened  there,  those  of  a 
young  man  and  a  girl  who  had  returned  home.  They  had  been  busy, 
active,  laboring  vigorously,  doing  their  best  work  at  the  end  of  their 
missions,  and  then  came  home  and  almost  dropped  out  of  sight.  A 
bishop  came  to  me  at  the  close  of  the  meeting  and  said:  "It  has  never 
happened  in  my  ward.  I  have  been  a  bishop  for  fifteen  years.  Yes, 
we  have  had  missionaries  out  all  the  time,  more  than  the  average  share, 
and  we  are  proud  of  that  too.  No  boy  or  girl  has  had  to  go  out  of 
this  ward  to  find  employment,  even  in  spiritual  duties."  He  further 
said:  "When  a  young  man  comes  home,  if  I  have  time,  and  I  find 
it  mostly,  I  meet  him  at  the  station  with  his  parents  and  get  acquainted 
with  him,  and  I  invite  him  to  see  me  as  soon  as  the  greetings  of  his 
family  are  over.  I  talk  to  him  about  his  spiritual  viewpoint,  and  his 
testimony.  I  inquire  of  him  what  he  would  like  to  do  in  the  ward. 
I  try  to  see  that  he  gets  that  which  he  likes  to  do.  I  do  not  give  him 
the  chance  to  take  things  easy  or  become  lazy  in  the  Church.  After  that 
if  anything  happens  that  he  does  not  get  employment,  then  we  all 
interest  ourselves  in  him,  high  councilors  and  bishopric.  We  never 
rest  until  that  young  man  is  employed,  for  his  spiritual  growth  depends 
upon  his  temporal  well-being."    I  was  glad  to  hear  this. 

Yes,  we  are  here  today  to  be  taught,  to  be  reminded,  to  be  en- 
couraged.   I  have  a  few  thoughts  concerning  a  somewhat  old  subject. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


33 


I  labor,  as  you  know,  in  the  office  of  the  Presiding  Bishop,  and  there 
constantly  is  the  application  of  the  law  of  tithing,  that  great  revenue 
law.  So  much  superior  to  that  of  the  world  that  the  world  would  like 
to  copy  it.  They  make  efforts  now  and  again  to  do  so.  In  their  efforts 
they  fail  after  a  while,  I  notice,  because  they  have  not  found  the  people 
who  could  handle  their  tithes.  They  lack  that  glorious  revelation 
and  belief  in  it  that  was  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  1838, 
telling  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  they  should  pay  one-tenth  of  their 
interest  annually. 

I  attended  a  stake  conference  a  short  time  ago  and  listened  to  an 
interesting  discourse  on  the  application  of  the  law  of  tithing.  The 
speaker  stated  that  a  young  couple  had  called  upon  a  certain  bishop 
and  applied  for  temple  recommends.  The  bishop,  in  a  fatherly  manner, 
asked  them  how  long  they  had  been  employed  at  a  salary.  They  replied 
from  two  to  three  years.  Then  the  bishop  reminded  them  that  they 
had  not  paid  any  tithing  on  their  earnings.  This  brought  tears  to  the 
eyes  of  the  young  woman,  but  the  young  man  said,  somewhat  defiantly, 
to  his  bishop :  "I  don't  see  what  difference  tithing  makes  anyhow." 
It  set  me  thinking  all  the  way  home :  does  not  tithing  matter  much  any- 
how ?  The  law  of  tithing  was  revealed  in  these  latter  days  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  by  which  means  are  provided  for  the  support  of  the 
Church.  It  is  a  voluntary  offering.  The  obligation  to  pay  tithing 
is  a  personal  one  and  should  be  rigidly  observed  by  every  Latter-day 
Saint  who  is  blessed  with  an  income. 

I  read  some  years  ago  in  one  of  the  early  Journals  of  Discourses 
a  sermon  given  by  the  late  Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards,  at  Logan, 
when,  in  urging  a  better  observance  of  the  law  of  tithing,  he  stated 
that  every  law  of  the  gospel  had  its  particular  blessing,  and  that  he 
had  in  his  possession  a  receipt  signed  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  the 
tithing  clerk,  which  stated  that  "Franklin  D.  Richards,  having  paid  his 
tithing  in  full  to  date,  is  entitled  to  the  benefits  of  the  baptismal  font  in 
the  Nauvoo  Temple."  So  it  appears  that  in  the  early  days  of  the 
Church  it  was  necessary  that  those  who  were  privileged  to  enter  the 
house  of  the  Lord  should  be  full  tithepayers.  Without  this  law  temples 
could  not  be  built  and  maintained ;  colleges  and  seminaries  would  be 
closed ;  the  large  sum  provided  toward  the  erection  of  meeting-houses, 
and  other  buildings  could  not  be  paid;  the  liberal  aid  toward  the 
support  and  maintenance  of  the  stakes  and  wards  could  not  be  provided ; 
the  missionary  work  of  the  Church  would  be  curtailed  or  abandoned; 
hospitals,  where  hundreds  of  the  poor  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
treated  annually  at  the  expense  of  the  Church,  could  not  continue  this 
service;  the  poor,  the  aged  and  feeble  could  not  be  provided  for.  So 
I  think  the  payment  of  tithing  matters  a  great  deal.  Without  the 
tithes  the  Church  would  be  like  an  automobile  without  gas,  a  street 
car  without  electricity,  a  railway  engine  without  fuel. 

Some  time  ago  a  prominent  man  in  the  state  of  Texas,  not  a 
Latter-day  Saint,  who  sincerely  believed  in  the  payment  of  tithes,  wrote 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  asking  if  there  were  on  record  information 
to  show  how  many  men  over  the  age  of  sixty-five,  who  had  been  con- 
sistent tithepayers,  had  become  dependent.  This  information  was 
secured  from  several  stakes.  Of  332  over  the  age  of  sixty-five,  274 
were  and  had  been  consistent  tithepayers,  and  were  self-supporting 
None  was  drawing  assistance  from  the  Church  or  from  charity  or- 
ganizations. This  indicates  that  when  a  person  observes  the  law  of  the 
tithe  he  accumulates  and  provides  a  surplus  for  old  age  and  does  not 
become  dependent.    Tithe  paying  will  never  impoverish  anyone. 

There  are  many  other  benefits  that  will  come  to  those  who  will 
observe  this  law.  It  will  train  men  and  women  to  be  generous ;  it  will 
develop  character ;  it  will  strengthen  our  faith,  for  faith  comes  only  by 
works.  It  will  teach  obedience.  It  will  add  to  our  testimony ;  and  after 
all  isn't  it  worth  something  to  have  a  testimony  that  the  gospel  has 
been  restored;  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God;  that  the  priest- 
hood has  been  given  to  men  in  these  latter  days,  and  that  the  Church  of 
God  has  been  established  to  bring  about  our  Father's  purposes  ? 

Tithing  is  a  debt,  not  a  gift  to  the  Lord.  "The  earth  is  the  Lord's 
and  the  fulness  thereof."  For  the  use  of  his  property  he  requires 
from  his  people  10%  of  all  their  interest  annually.  That  10%  is  not 
ours  to  use  .  Let  us  pay  our  tithing  not  with  the  expectation  of  an 
increase  in  worldly  goods,  but  as  a  privilege,  to  help  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  Let  us  do  it  cheerfully,  feeling  that  we  have  been  blessed  with 
the  privilege  of  helping  in  his  great  latter-day  work. 

It  is  characteristic  of  most  men  and  women  to  harbor  good  in- 
tentions, and  we  should  always  encourage  good  intentions  and  good  ideals 
and  purposes,  but  it  is  better  to  put  one  of  these  into  operation  than 
accumulate  ten  of  them.  The  tithing  one  intends  to  pay  next  year,  or 
the  resolve  to  pay  tithing  in  the  future,  is  not  nearly  as  good  for  char- 
acter building  as  a  payment  actually  made.  In  order  to  avoid  the 
temptation  to  use  the  Lord's  money  why  not  pay  our  tithing  at  regular 
intervals  during  the  year,  once  a  month  or  oftener  if  necessary. 

I  appeal  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  to  get  into  that  habit  and  to 
teach  our  young  people  in  our  homes  to  observe  that  law  in  their  child- 
hood and  youth,  and  get  the  habit  of  tithe-paying.  Go  home  with  a  deJ 
termination  that  at  regular  intervals,  not  at  the  end  of  the  year  alone, 
we  will  examine  and  find  out  what  we  owe  the  Lord,  and  pay  it.  I 
have  always  admired  the  statement  of  the  late  Bishop  George  Romney. 
I  used  to  receipt  him  for  the  tithes  he  paid  into  the  office  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishop.  He  came  in  regularly  every  month  with  a  good-sized 
check.  He  was  a  large  tithe-payer.  He  said  to  me  one  day,  "I  do  not 
know  whether  I  could  gather  up  enough  faith  to  be  absolutely  honest 
with  the  Lord  if  I  left  all  my  tithing  until  tithing  settlement.  I  might 
get  into  the  habit  of  seeing  how  little  I  owe  the  Lord  and  not  how 
much.  So  I  balance  up  with  him  every  month,  and  that  is  the  first 
check  I  pay  out  each  month." 

Three  months  from  now  the  bishopric  throughout  the  Church  will 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


35 


announce  the  time  and  place  for  the  annual  tithing  settlement.  All 
Latter-day  Saints  who  have  some  income  are  invited  to  meet  in, 
privacy  with  the  bishopric  of  the  ward  as  common  judges  in  Israel,  sq 
that  they  may  examine  their  tithing  record  and  declare  to  the  bishopric 
whether  it  is  a  full  tithing  or  not.  Thousands  will  accept  this  invitation 
and  will  go  gladly  because  they  have  observed  this  law.  Many  others 
will  go  with  excuses  and  regrets  and  promises  to  do  better  in  the  future. 

May  we  at  this  season  of  the  year,  as  officers  and  members  of  the 
Church,  observe  the  payment  of  our  tithes  and  offerings,  teach  it  in  the 
quorums  and  classes  of  the  priesthood,  so  that  all  the  blessings  which  the 
Lord  has  promised  his  people  through  the  observance  of  this  law  may 
be  ours  and  this  goodly  land  become  sanctified  and  be  in  very  deed  a 
land  of  Zion  to  his  people. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  that  Mormonism  as  it  is  known,  is 
the  work  of  God,  that  the  Lord  has  given  me  a  testimony  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  his  prophet,  that  he  came  in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times,  bringing  the  gospel  with  power  and  authority  to  establish  it. 
Ministering  angels  and  glorious  beings  came  with  authority  and  power. 
Oh,  his  was  a  wonderful  life !  As  a  lad  of  fourteen  years  of  age  he  saw 
the  Father  and  the  Son ;  at  seventeen  years  of  age  a  holy  messenger  came 
and  told  him  what  was  expected  of  him ;  and  each  year  thereafter  until 
he  was  twenty-two  the  same  messenger  saw  him  and  admonished  and 
encouraged  him.  Then  he  received  the  plates,  and  by  the  gift  and  power 
of  God  they  were  translated.  When  he  was  twenty-four  years  of  age 
the  Book  of  Mormon  was  ready  for  publication.  The  same  year  he 
received  the  visit  of  John  the  Baptist  and  of  Peter,  James,  and  John, 
and  of  others,  who  gave  him  power  and  authority  to  establish  the  work 
of  God  upon  the  earth.  At  twenty-four  years  of  age,  or  a  little  more, 
he  had  by  that  same  power  and  authority  organized  the  Church  of 
which  we  are  members.  At  thirty  years  of  age  he  dedicated  the  first 
temple  in  this  last  dispensation.  At  thirty-nine  years  of  age  he  had 
paid  the  penalty  that  the  world  had  been  hungering  for  for  years,  paid, 
for  his  testimony  with  his  blood.  As  President  Brigham  Young  said 
at  one  time,  "Forty-six  times  was  he  arrested,  forty-six  times  was  he 
acquitted.  It  cost  his  brethren  thousands  of  dollars  to  keep  him  alive 
until  his  work  was  done."  Yes,  he  died  poor.  Great  leaders  of  religious 
movements  usually  become  rich,  but  he  died  poor,  too  busy,  as  President 
Young  said,  in  establishing  the  kingdom  of  God,  to  accumulate  wealth. 
He  is  the  man  whom  I  testify  was  a  servant  of  God,  and  I  do  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

"But  watch  thou  in  all  things,  endure  afflictions,  do  the  work  of  an  evangelist, 
make  full  proof  of  thy  ministry. 

"For  I  am  now  ready  to  be  offered,  and  the  time  of  my  departure  is  at  hand. 
"I  have  fought  a  good  fight,  I  have  finished  my  course,  I  have  kept  the  faith." 

So  wrote  Paul  the  Apostle  to  Timothy,  his  "son  in  the  faith."  Tim- 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


othy  was  then  at  Ephesus,  presiding  over  that  branch  of  the  Church.  Paul 
was  a  prisoner  in  (Rome,  possibly  facing  the  death  to  which  he  refers 
when  he  writes,  "I  am  now  ready  to  be  offered."  Paul  seems  to  have 
cherished  a  warm  affection  for  this  young  man  whom  he  baptized  early 
in  his  ministry,  possibly  at  the  same  time  as  when  he  baptized  Timothy's 
mother,  Eunice,  and  his  grandmother,  Lois. 

KEEP  THE  FAITH 

The  part  that  I  wish  to  emphasize  of  this  last  message  to  this 
fellow  servant  whom  he  loved  may  be  put  in  three  words:  "Keep 
the  faith." 

Once  before  in  a  letter  Paul  had  urged  Timothy  to  do  this  very 
thing — to  hold  the  faith  : 

"Let  no  man  despise  thy  youth;  but  be  thou  an  example  of  the  believers,  in 

word,  in  conversation,  in  charity,  in  spirit,  in  faith,  in  purity."    *  *  * 

"Continue  in  the  doctrine :  for  in  doing  this  thou  shalt  save  thyself  and 
them  that  hear  thee." 

As  I  have  listened  to  the  inspirational  addresses  that  have  been 
delivered  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference  I  have  wondered  what 
message  I  might  give  to  those  who  have  assembled  and  to  those  unto 
whom  you  will  carry  the  message.  It  is  an  important  responsibility, 
this  speaking  to  a  conference  of  the  Church.  The  time  for  each  speaker 
is  limited,  but  his  responsibility  to  give  an  important  message  is  not 
lessened  thereby.  Just  what  this  message  should  be  has  given  me 
prayerful  concern. 

I  am  impressed  to  give  this  last  message  of  Paul  to  Timothy : 
"Keep  the  faith."  To  some  of  you  such  an  admonition  might  seem 
trite,  as  having  very  little  weight,  or  as  carrying  with  it  but  little  im- 
portance, but  as  I  stand  before  you  today  I  can  think  of  no  better 
message  to  give  to  the  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  "Hold  the 
faith."  Keep  it.  When  I  say  this,  I  am  thinking  of  young  men  and 
young  women  who  are  perplexed  in  their  minds  about  the  problems  of 
the  day,  who  are  striving  to  harmonize  the  teachings  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saint  Church  with  some  of  the  teachings  which  they  are  receiving) 
in  schools  and  with  some  of  the  condemnatory  remarks  which  are  made 
by  their  associates.  These  young  men  and  young  women  are  sincere  in 
their  desire  to  do  right  and  I  believe  they  want  the  truth,  but  they  are 
perplexed,  they  wonder  sometimes  with  Pilate,  "What  is  truth  ?" 

In  all  these  perplexities,  in  all  these  wonderings,  I  would  have 
them  anchor  their  souls  with  this  thought:  "I  am  going  to  keep  the 
faith,  I  am  going  to  be  true  to  the  faith  of  my  fathers  until  I  have 
proved  beyond  a  doubt  that  that  faith  is  not  in  harmony  with  truth." 
And  I  know  the  day  will  never  come  when  a  sincere  soul  can  prove  that 
this  faith  is  not  in  harmony  with  truth.  A  sincere  soul  will  find  it  in 
harmony  with  truth,  for  it  is  truth. 

WHAT  IT  MEANS  TO  KEEP  THE  FAITH 

What  does  it  mean  to  keep  the  faith?    It  means  first,  that  we 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


37 


accept  Jesus  Christ,  not  merely  as  a  great  teacher,  a  powerful  leader,  but 
as  the  Savior,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  Now,  there  is  much  associated 
with  that,  for  I  know  that  many  students  are  reading  comments  from 
reputably  great  educators  who  say  that  in  order  to  be  a  christian  it  is 
not  necessary  to  accept  Christ  as  the  literal  Son  of  God,  it  is  not 
necessary  to  believe  in  the  immaculate  conception,  it  is  not  necessary  to 
believe  in  the  literal  resurrection  from  the  grave.  But  he  who  keeps 
the  faith  will  accept  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world.  I  would  have  all  men  keep  that  faith.  I  think  it  is  funda- 
mental to  man's  happiness,  fundamental  to  his  peace  of  mind.  I  think 
it  is  the  cardinal  principle  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  A  young 
man  who  keeps  that  faith  may  not  in  his  heart  know  that  all  things 
which  jjesus  said  are  true,  but  if  he  holds  to  the  truth  of  Christ's 
divinity  he  will  keep  in  harmony  with  the  Savior's  teachings  by  the 
spirit  of  faith.  And  we  walk  by  faith  in  this  world.  We  are  as  the 
little  boy  who  holds  his  father's  hand  in  the  midst  of  a  great  city:  the 
little  boy  is  confused  by  the  din  and  bustle  of  the  crowd,  and  realizes 
that  if  he  breaks  away  he  will  be  lost  and  may  not  be  able  to  get  back 
to  his  father.  While  he  holds  that  father's  hand,  however,  he  is  safe. 
He  has  an  assurance  that  his  father  will  lead  him  back  to  his  home. 
So  it  is  with  the  young  man  who  keeps  his  faith  in  this  latter-day  work. 
There  may  be  confusion  around  him,  his  thoughts  may  be  distracted,  but 
he  has  his  hand  in  that  of  his  Redeemer,  and  with  faith  in  that  spiritual 
inspiration  he  will  be  led  into  truth,  his  conscience  will  be  awakened  to 
that  great  spiritual  reality  which  is  around  us. 

man's  relationship  to  the  infinite 

Man  is  a  spiritual  being,  a  soul,  and  at  some  period  of  his  life 
everyone  is  possessed  with  an  irresistible  desire  to  know  his  relation- 
ship to  the  infinite.  He  realizes  that  he  is  not  just  a  phyiscal  object 
that  is  to  be  tossed  for  a  short  time  from  bank  to  bank,  only  to  be 
submerged  finally  in  the  everflowing  stream  of  life.  There  is  some- 
thing within  him  which  urges  him  to  rise  above  himself,  to  control  his 
environment,  to  master  the  body  and  all  things  physical  and  live  in  a 
higher  and  more  beautiful  world. 

It  was  James  Russell  Lowell  who  wrote  in  his  description  of  that 
beautiful  day  in  June: 

"Every  clod  feels  a  stir  of  might, 
An  instinct  within  it  that  reaches  and  towers, 
And,  groping  blindly  above  it  for  light, 
Climbs  to  a  soul  in  grass  and  flowers." 

So  there  is  in  man  a  spiritual  longing,  a  desire  for  spiritual  com- 
munion which  attends  and  which  may  at  all  times  lift  him  from  that 
which  is  physical  and  sensual  to  the  realm  of  spirituality. 

SAFE  ANCHORAGE 

I  believe  that  in  this  day  we  are  coming  more  to  a  realization  of  that 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


great  truth.  President  Nibley  referred  to  it  this  morning.  Young  man, 
keep  your  faith.  Know  that  the  greatest  of  all  teachers,  the  Perfection 
of  Humanity,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  is  the  only  safe  guide  to  all 
hungering  souls.  That  is  what  Mormonism  teaches.  It  is  not  dogma, 
it  is  a  reality. 

Millikan,  the  great  scientist,  so  wrote  when  he  penned  these  words : 

"The  most  important  thing  in  all  the  world  is  a  belief  in  the  reality  of 
moral  and  spiritual  values." 

These  thoughts  I  associate  with  that  one  safe  anchor,  keeping  the 
faith ;  the  knowledge  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 
Let  neither  sophistry  nor  golden-tongued  oratory  delivered  by  men 
who  have  lost  their  anchorage  in  Christ,  lead  you  away  from  that  truth. 

To  keep  the  faith  means  also  to  accept  the  fact  that  the  Savior,  a 
resurrected  personal  being,  has  appeared  in  this  dispensation  and  re- 
stored the  authority  to  men  to  preach  in  his  name,  and  to  officiate  in 
things  pertaining  to  God.  That  too  is  a  great  anchor.  Some  of  the 
young  men  say,  "We  do  not  know  that" ;  but  they  believe  it,  and  that 
belief,  with  confidence  in  their  parents,  with  confidence  in  their  own 
experience,  their  own  feelings,  should  be  sufficient  to  hold  them  in 
anchorage  until  the  real  knowledge  takes  possession  of  them,  as  it  will. 
No  sincere  youth  can  hold  to  that  truth  and  live  in  obedience  to  what 
it  inspires  without  receiving  an  assurance  from  that  spiritual  reality 
that  Jesus  Christ  has  appeared  in  this  dispensation.  Oh,  what  that 
means  to  an  unbelieving  world!  Who  can  grasp  its  full  significance? 
What  a  revelation  to  man  regarding  the  Godhead !  What  it  means 
regarding  life  after  death — the  reality  and  personal  relationships  after 
death!  What  it  means  regarding  God's  fatherhood  to  man  and  the 
brotherhood  of  the  human  family!  All  these  great  questions  are  in- 
volved in  that  great  declaration  that  Joseph  Smith  received  a  personal 
visitation  from  the  Father  and  the  Son. 

IDEALS  OF  OUR  YOUNG  PEOPLE 

Again,  to  keep  the  faith  means  that  young  men  will  strive  to  keep 
themselves  as  Paul  asked  Timothy  to  keep  himself,  "exemplary  in 
action,  exemplary  in  conversation,  in  charity,  in  spirit,  in  faith,  in 
purity."  Such,  also,  is  Mormonism;  and  our  young  men  believe  in  it. 
Just  within  the  last  month,  I  have  read  approximately  one  hundred 
papers  written  by  as  many  young  men  and  young  women  on  the 
subject,  "What  it  means  to  be  a  missionary."  We  asked  them  to  write 
their  own  honest  thoughts.  Parents,  I  want  to  congratulate  you  on 
the  part  you  have  contributed  toward  the  excellency  of  those  papers 
which  revealed  a  training  on  the  part  of  these  young  people  that  is  most 
commendable.  The  papers  were  neatly  written.  The  percentage  of 
misspelled  words  was  small,  there  was  not  a  page  which  was  blotted, 
every  one  was  a  credit  to  the  writer.  But  the  best  part  of  it  all  was 
their  statements  regarding  the  ideals  of  the  Church,  their  desire  to 
live  in  purity  and  to  reflect  credit  upon  the  people  whom  they  are 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


39 


representing.  You  cannot  tell  me  that  our  boys  and  girls  are  not 
desirous  of  doing  that  which  is  right.  Some  of  them  gave  expression 
to  thoughts  which  perhaps  are  a  little  surprising,  but  they  were  honest 
expressions.  The  important  thing  is  that  these  young  people  are  going 
out  into  the  world  anchored,  I  believe,  in  the  thought  that  they  want 
to  be  true  to  the  faith  of  their  fathers,  and  if  they  do,  they  will  keep 
themselves  pure  and  unspotted  from  the  world.  Keeping  the  faith 
means  just  that.  I  know  that  I  am  speaking  to  fathers  and  mothers 
who  would  rather  have  their  boys  and  girls  do  this  than  to  have  them 
accomplish  anything  else  in  all  the  world. 

KEEP  CLEAN  , 

In  confirmation  of  this,  I  am  reminded  of  a  message  that  was  sent 
by  a  mother  to  her  son  in  Holland.  It  was  written  on  a  little  package 
containing,  I  think,  a  present  to  her  boy.  The  mother  sent  it  over  with 
one  of  the  missionaries,  and  it  was  handed  to  me  in  Liverpool  to  be 
forwarded  to  the  boy  in  Holland.  On  the  outside  of  that  package, 
written  in  the  mother's  hand,  was  this  message:    "Quinn,  keep  clean." 

In  those  three  words  was  expressed  a  mother's  most  sincere  hope 
and  prayer  for  the  boy  she  loved  better  than  her  own  life.  "Keep  clean." 
To  keep  the  faith  of  our  fathers  we  must  be  clean  from  the  sins  of  the 
world,  young  men  as  well  as  young  women.  Is  there  anything  which 
will  contribute  more  to  the  peace  and  happiness  of  mankind 
than  chaste  living?  The  perpetuity  of  our  government  depends  upon 
the  stability  of  our  homes,  and  the  stability  of  our  homes  depends  upon 
the  purity  of  the  parentage  in  those  homes,  the  fathers  as  well  as  the 
mothers. 

Youth  of  the  land,  when  we  say,  keep  the  faith,  we  are  but  asking 
you  to  be  patriots  as  well  as  to  be  true  men,  to  be  strong  in  your  youth, 
that  you  may  be  worthy  of  fatherhood;  young  women,  that  you  may 
possess  the  beauty  of  honorable  and  worthy  motherhood.  Thus  you 
will  contribute  to  the  strength  of  your  community,  to  the  strength  and 
perpetuity  of  the  nation  you  love. 

TRUE  MANHOOD  AND  TRUE  WOMANHOOD 

Oh,  I  love  the  Church  that  stands  for  these  high  ideals,  not  in 
theory  only  but  in  practice;  and  I  love  the  boys  and  girls  who  are 
inclined  to  protect  themselves  from  the  evils  with  which  they  are 
surrounded,  who  are  anchored  in  the  faith  of  their  fathers.  We  are  not 
outgrowing  it,  we  cannot  outgrow  it.  Our  point  of  view  may  be  some- 
what different,  and  the  application  of  the  teaching  may  vary  from  the 
application  made  by  our  parents,  as  President  Ivins  pointed  out  this 
morning,  but  the  faith  is  sound,  it  is  eternal.  Gospel  principles  are 
truly  the  "power  of  God  unto  salvation." 

This  summer,  ninety-six  young  men  and  young  women  went  out 
for  a  party.  They  belonged  to  an  organization  in  one  of  our  Church 
schools.   They  were  properly  chaperoned  and  stayed  over  night.  When 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


they  returned  home  next  day  one  of  the  anxious  fathers  very  wisely 
questioned  his  boy  as  to  the  actions  of  the  crowd,  and  among'  other 
things  asked:  "Son,  how  many  boys  were  tipsy?"  "Why,  what  do 
you  mean,  father?"  "I  mean  how  many  of  the  boys  drank  whisky?" 
"Not  one."  "How  many  of  them  smoked?"  The  son  hesitated  a 
moment,  then  said:  "I  cannot  recall  one."  Then,  turning  to  his 
brother  he  asked,  "Did  you  know  of  any  boys  or  girls  who  used  cigar- 
ettes?" "No,"  said  his  brother,  "there  was  not  one.  If  there  had  been 
he  would  be  expelled  from  the  society." 

I  think  those  ninety-six  boys  and  girls  are  cherishing  the  ideals 
of  true  manhood  and  true  womanhood,  and  they  are  keeping  the  faith. 
God  bless  them  in  doing  it. 

OBSERVANCE  OF  LAW  REQUIRED 

Finally,  to  keep  the  faith  means  to  keep  the  laws  of  our  country. 
No  man  who  keeps  the  faith  will  participate  in  the  making  or  in  the 
distributing  of  "bootleg"  whisky.  He  who  indulges  in  such  illegality 
is  disloyal  to  his  country  and  to  his  Church.  For  nearly  a  hundred 
years  the  Church  has  preached  and  plead  with  men  and  women  to  keep 
themselves  free  from  intoxicants  and  the  excessive  use  of  stimulants. 
Today  we  heard  that  plea  repeated  by  President  Grant  when  he  urged 
all  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

To  accept  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Son  of  God,  the  Savior  of  the  world  ; 
to  believe  in  the  resurrection  and  in  the  immortality  of  man ;  to  be 
tolerant,  charitable,  benevolent,  chaste ;  to  defend  the  purity  of  the 
home ;  to  be  loyal  to  our  country,  and  true  to  our  God — these  are  some 
of  the  virtues  connoted  by  Paul's  admonition  to  keep  the  faith. 

God  help  us  as  young  men  and  women,  as  members  of  the  Church, 
to  do  this,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

I  have  been  thrilled,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  not  only  by  the  songs 
that  have  been  sung  in  our  hearing  today,  but  by  the  testimonies  of  the 
brethren.  I  recognize  the  wise  statesmanship  involved  in  the  speeches 
delivered  by  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  this  morning. 

May  I  pharaphrase  the  declaration  of  Apostle  Paul  to  the  Romans, 
when  he  said:  "For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,"  and 
say,  "For  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  restored  Gospel  of  Christ,  for  it 
is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  every  one  that  believeth." 

There  was  a  time  when  the  name  "Mormon"  was  used  as  a  term 
of  derision.  Indeed  an  early  decision  by  one  of  the  appellate  courts  of 
New  York  went  so  far  as  to  decide  that  the  Court  would  take  "judicial 
notice"  that  it  was  libelous  per  se  for  one  to  falsely  publish  of  another 
that  he  was  a  member  of  the  Mormon  Church.  Of  course  that  decision 
was  erroneous.    At  most  it  would  be  a  question  of  fact.    It  might  in 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


41 


some  quarters  be  injurious  to  an  individual  to  falsely  say  of  another 
that  he  was  a  Mormon.  But  fortunately  the  number  of  individuals 
who  would  feel  themselves  so  aggrieved  is  becoming  fewer  every  year. 

I  am  pleased  to  hear  the  report  of  President  Nibley  that  there  is  a 
kindlier  feeling  existing  towards  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  Northwest 
than  heretofore.  I  can  say  the  same  thing  with  reference  to  the  North- 
east, in  the  region  of  country  where  I  am  doing  missionary  service,  in 
the  provinces  of  Ontario,  Quebec,  New  Brunswick,  Nova  Scotia,  and 
in  the  states  of  Vermont,  New  Hampshire  and  Maine. 

The  term  "Mormon"  first  applied  as  an  epithet  in  derision,  is  now 
accepted  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  a  compliment.  Those  who  best 
know  what  this  Church  stands  for  are  not  ashamed  of  this  honored 
nickname.  Mormonism  stands  for  a  sane  and  rational  interpretation 
of  the  Bible,  declining  to  discard  the  so-called  miraculous  and  refusing 
to  spiritualize  away  the  literal.  At  the  same  time  it  makes  due  allowance 
for  the  figurative  and  symbolic.  In  addition  to  the  Hebrew  scriptures, 
so  believed  and  interpreted,  we  have  a  volume  of  ancient  American 
scriptures  and  still  another  book  of  nineteenth  century  revelations. 
Since  the  coming  forth  of  these  two  volumes  of  scripture,  many  er- 
roneous doctrines  and  creedal  statements  have  been,  and  are  being,  laid 
away  in  the  cemetery  of  worn-out  creeds,  exploded  dogma  and  false 
theology.  For  instance,  the  truth  was  revealed  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  that  little  children  are  not  capable  of  committing  sin,  that 
baptism  is  unto  repentance  for  the  remission  of  sin,  and  that  sinless 
children  have  no  need  of  repentance,  either  of  baptism,  but  are  alive 
in  Christ,  are  without  the  law  and  have  claim  on  the  mercies  of  God. 
After  these  teachings  go  forth,  the  doctrine  of  infant  damnation  becomes 
less  popular  in  the  world,  and  there  are  fewer  unbaptized  infants  refused 
burial  in  what  is  called  holy  ground.  With  the  further  understanding 
that  "eternal  punishment,"  "endless  punishment,"  is  God's  punishment 
and  that  these  terms  are  used  because  "more  express  than  other  scrip- 
tures, that  it  might  work  upon  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men;" 
allow  a  reasonable  time  for  the  dissemination  of  these  truths,  and  we 
cease  to  hear  of  unbaptized  infants  suffering  the  torture  of  an  ever- 
lasting fire  in  a  lake  of  brimstone. 

The  very  first  revelation  in  this  dispensation  disclosed  the  fact  that 
man  is  in  the  physical  image  of  God.  It  was  learned  anew  that  in  the 
beginning  God  had  said :  "Let  us  make  man  in  our  image,  after  our 
likeness;"  that  man  is  in  the  highest  form  of  creation  known  to  the 
universe ;  that  in  potentiality  and  possibility  of  development  he  is  of  the 
same  lineage  as  his  Heavenly  Father.  The  leaven  of  this  doctrine  has 
not  yet  expelled  the  error  still  taught  that  God  is  a  being  without  body 
parts  or  passions.  Would  it  not  have  been  un-Godlike  to  have  created 
man,  God's  masterpiece,  lower  in  potentiality  than  the  highest  form 
of  being  known  to  the  universe?  The  power  of  endless  progress  is 
a  sufficient  reason  for  endless  life. 

For  centuries  it  was  believed  that  the  canon  of  scripture  was  full, 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  our  Heavenly  Father  had  no  new  word  of  counsel,  encouragement 
or  admonition  for  his  struggling,  misguided  children;  that  one  of  the 
present  century  was  to  be  less  favored  than  one  living  in  the  first 
century.  To  believe  there  is  no  new  revelation  is  to  believe  that  God 
does  not  answer  prayer,  at  least  a  prayer  for  information  or  instruction. 
Gradually  the  thought  is  gaining  ground  in  the  world  that  divine  in- 
struction adapted  to  a  race  in  one  stage  of  its  growth  may  not  be 
adequate  for  more  mature  development,  and  that  an  all-wise  Father  will 
not  refuse  or  neglect  to  give  progressive  instruction  suited  to  the  pro- 
gressive needs  of  his  children;  that  the  Eternal  Father  would  be  at 
least  as  considerate  of  his  offspring  in  this  respect  as  an  earthly  father: 
From  the  fact  that  it  was  necessary  to  have  the  revelations  of  the  Old 
Testament  supplemented  by  the  revelations  of  the  New  Testament, 
there  can  be  no  objection  apriori,  to  the  revelations  of  the  Old  Testament 
and  of  the  New  Testament  being  supplemented  by  a  still  later  revelation. 

Mormonism  is  pre-eminently  an  American  religion,  as  was  more 
fully  presented  by  the  First  Presidency  this  morning.  It  stands  for. 
America,  North  and  South,  and  particularly  for  the  government  of  the 
United  States.  It  teaches  that  this  western  hemisphere  is  a  land  choice 
above  all  other  lands — a  land  of  liberty  dedicated  to  freedom  and  right- 
eousness. The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  believed  in  with 
religious  devotion,  that  its  framers  were  heaven-inspired.  And  well 
may  such  a  . belief  be  cherished.  Gladstone,  the  great  English  premier, 
said  of  it: 

"As  far  as  I  can  see  the  American  Constitution  is  the  greatest  and  most 
wonderful  work  ever  struck  off  at  one  time  by  the  brain  and  purpose  of  man." 

Our  Constitution  has  rightly  been  called  the  "bond  of  our  union, 
the  shield  of  our  defense,  and  the  source  of  our  prosperity."  While  the 
name  of  Deity  is  not  mentioned  in  the  Constitution,  yet,  in  a  sense,  ours 
is  a  Christian  government  and  country.  Religious  liberty  is  guaranteed 
in  that  Congress  can  make  no  law  respecting  the  establishment  of 
religion,  nor  prohibiting  the  free  exercise  thereof,  and  that  no  religious 
test  shall  ever  be  required  as  a  qualification  to  any  office  or  public  trust 
under  the  United  States.  At  the  time  of  the  adoption  of  the  Constitu- 
tion such  a  thing  as  a  written  constitution  was  scarcely  known ;  certainly 
nothing  of  the  nature  of  the  one  devised.  England  had  a  constitution 
but  it  was  an  unwritten  one,  embodied  in  the  laws  and  practices  of 
more  than  a  dozen  centuries  of  time.  It  was  to  be  found  in  such 
documents  as  Magna  Charta,  The  Petition  of  Rights,  The  Bill  of  Rights, 
the  Habeas  Corpus  Act,  Act  of  Settlement,  and  other  great  enactments. 
The  idea  of  a  written  constitution  was  soon  taken  up  by  France,  spread- 
ing to  most  of  the  European  countries ;  also  to  other  continents  and  to 
the  islands  of  the  sea.  While  this  wonderful  document  can  be  read 
through  in  less  than  an  hour,  there  are  already  many  thousands  of 
references  to  distinct  points  decided  by  the  Supreme  Court  construing 
the  Constitution. 

In  view  of  all  this,  it  is  but  natural  that  the  leaders  of  our  Church 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


43 


in  various  stages  of  its  history  have  expressed  themselves  warmly  in 
support  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  and  laws  passed  in 
conformity  thereto. 

Our  system  of  proselyting  is  unique.  It  is  the  re-establishment  of 
the  early  missionary  system  so  far  as  the  same  is  applicable  to  present 
day  conditions.  Gratuitous  service  of  months  and  years  at  a  time  is 
given  by  our  men  and  women.  There  are  now  missionaries  representing 
our  Church  to  the  number  of  about  twenty-five  hundred  in  the  foreign 
missions.  Where  else  can  you  find  so  many  volunteers  in  foreign  lands 
or  States  preaching  without  purse  or  pay?  Their  consolation  is  the 
thought  embodied  in'  the  lines  of  Longfellow  in  his  poem  entitled,  "The 
Arrow  and  the  Song": 

"I  shot  an  arrow  into  the  air, 
It  fell  to  earth,  I  knew  not  where ; 
For,  so  swiftly  it  flew,  the  sight 
Could  not  follow  it  in  its  flight. 

"I  breathed  a  song  into  the  air, 
It  fell  to  earth,  I  knew  not  where ; 
For  who  has  sight  so  keen  and  strong, 
That  it  can  follow  the  flight  of  song? 

"Long,  long  afterward,  in  an  oak, 
I  found  the  arrow,  still  unbroke; 
And  the  song,  from  beginning  to  end, 
I  found  again  in  the  heart  of  a  friend." 

Now  we  sometimes  feel  that  it  is  a  perplexing  task  to  deal  with  the 
different  problems  that  arise  in  perfecting  new  missionaries,  yet  there 
is  always  a  joy  attending  our  labors,  and  that  joy  brims  over  when 
we  see  souls  come  into  the  Church.  Quite  recently  I  have  had  instances 
of  that  sort.  In  one  of  our  provinces  four  of  our  Elders  baptized 
within  the  eight  months  of  this  year  some  twelve  converts,  among  the 
number  being  two  entire  families.  There  is  great  joy  in  bringing  a 
single  soul  into  the  Church  and  much  greater  when  many  are  brought 
into  the  fold. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  missionary  service,  and  all  those  who  take 
part  therein,  that  they  may  go  forward  in  faith  and  power  in  pro- 
claiming the  truth  to  the  children  of  our  Father  who  are  in  darkness 
and  who  need  the  message  which  the  Eiders  have  to  bear  to  them,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "O  say,  what  is  truth?" 
Elder  Joseph  Eckersley  pronounced  the  benediction. 
The  conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock,  Saturday  morning, 
October  6,  1928. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING  ' 

The  meeting  commenced  at  10  a.  m.,  Saturday,  October  6,  1928, 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Guide  us,  O  Thou  Great  Je- 
hovah." 

Elder  Mark  Austin  offered  the  invocation. 

A  soprano  solo,  "Eye  hath  not  seen,"  was  sung  by  Sister  Pearl 
Kimball  Davis. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  notwithstanding  there  are  many  attrac- 
tions in  Salt  Lake  City  to  engage  the  attention  of  the  people, .  there  is 
still  a  very  large  gathering  in  this  tabernacle  this  morning.  I  greatly 
rejoiced  in  the  spirit  and  teachings  of  the  conference  yesterday.  I  trust 
that  the  Lord  will  continue  to  be  with  us  today,  by  the  influence  and 
power  of  his  holy  Spirit,  that  it  may  be  a  time  of  rejoicing  and  thanks- 
giving. 

A  PERPLEXING  QUESTION 

I  am  reading  in  part  from  one  of  the  daily  papers,  a  message  wired 
from  Glasgow,  Scotland,  September  10,  1928: 

"The  great  mystery  of  the  origin,  nature  and  purpose  of  life,  always  will 
remain  to  tease,  stimulate  or  humiliate  mankind.  Professor  C.  Lovatt  Evans 
told  the  physiology  section  of  the  British  Association  for  the  Advancement 
of  Science  today. 

"Professor  Evans  is  a  fellow  of  the  Royal  Society,  a  member  of  the  Royal 
College  of  Surgeons,  a  doctor  of  science  and  one  of  the  best  known  physiologists 
in  the  world.  His  remarks  were  made  in  the  course  of  the  presidential  address 
for  physiology  section  of  the  science  association.    *    *  * 

"  'Matter,  energy,  time  and  space  are  in  the  melting  pot,'  he  said,  'and  out 
of  it  will  come,  we  know  not  what  kind  of  strange  relations,  one  to  another. 
One  thing  we  may  be  sure,  no  final  explanation  will  follow'." 

The  position  taken  by  this  learned  professor  is  extraordinary.  He 
assumes  that  man  will  never  come  to  know  the  purpose  of  life.  And 
if  that  be  true,  I  take  it  that  there  would  be  very  little  or  no  satisfaction 
in  living.  Man  is  fearfully  and  wonderfully  made.  He  is  the  marvel 
of  creation,  he  is  the  noblest  work  of  God.  Nevertheless,  Professor 
Evans,  by  the  study  of  man,  could  never  ascertain  the  purpose  of  life. 

THE  AUTHOR  OF  LIFE 

If  this  mystery  is  to  be  solved  at  all,  it  would  be  well  for  Professor 
Evans  and  all  others  interested  in  the  subject  to  go  back  of  man,  back 
to  the  beginning,  and  there  become  acquainted  with  the  Author  of  life. 
Who  is  the  Author  of  life?    I  take  it  that  this  is  a  pertinent  question. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


45 


The  answer  is,  God,  the  Father,  the  Creator  of  the  heavens  and  the 
earth.  He  is  the  Author  of  life.  That  such  knowledge  is  vital  to  the 
consideration  of  the  subject  before  us,  is  made  clear  by  the  following 
scripture,  a  saying  by  Paul  the  Apostle: 

"This  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the  only  true  God  and 
Jesus  Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent." 

How  shall  we  come  to  know  him,  that  he  may  reveal  to  us  the 
purpose  of  life?  We  can  only  know  him  by  rendering  obedience  to  the 
Gospel,  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  which  he  has  given,  and  through 
such  knowledge  by  obtaining  the  Spirit  of  God.  This  is  clearly  indi- 
cated in  the  following  passages  of  scripture: 

"But  as  it  is  writen,  Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  entered 
into  the  heart  of  man,  the  things  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love  him. 

"But  God  hath  revealed  them  unto  us  by  his  Spirit ;  for  the  Spirit  searcheth 
all  things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of  God. 

"For  what  man  knoweth  the  things  of  man,  save  the  spirit  of  man  which 
is  in  him?  even  so  the  things  of  God  knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of  God. 

"Now  we  have  received,  not  the  spirit  of  the  world,  but  the  spirit  which  is 
of  God ;  that  we  might  know  the  things  that  are  freely  given  to  us  of  God." 
(1  Cor.  2:9-12.) 

Having  progressed  sufficiently  to  get  possession  of  the  Spirit  of 
God,  our  minds  will  be  illuminated  so  that  we  can  comprehend  the  things 
of  God. 

WHAT  IS  MAN? 

The  scriptures  teach  us  that  mankind  are  the  children  of  God,  or 
in  other  words,  that  God  is  the  father  of  our  spirits,  while  our  earthly 
parents  are  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  our  bodies.  If  this  be  true — 
and  it  is  true — it  follows  that  there  was  a  great  family  of  spirits  in 
the  spirit  world,  God  himself  being  at  the  head  of  said  family.  The  earth 
was  created  then  that  these  spirits  might  come  down  and  get  bodies. 
This  is  clearly  and  beautifully  set  forth  by  the  following  quotation  from 
the  2nd  Chapter  of  Genesis: 

"And  the  Lord  God  formed  man  of  the  dust  of  the  ground,  and  breathed 
into  his  nostrils  the  breath  of  life ;  and  man  became  a  living  soul." 

What  was  the  breath  of  life  here  referred  to?  Why,  it  was  the 
man's  spirit  that  God  put  into  his  body.  He  never  was  a  living  soul 
prior  to  that  first  great  creative  act,  but  now  that  he  has  a  body  com- 
bined with  a  spirit,  it  constitutes  him  a  living  soul.  We  begin  to  see 
something  of  the  purpose  of  life.  The  spirits  of  men  and  women  came 
down  to  the  earth  to  get  bodies,  and  I  take  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  this  was  indeed  a  great  and  glorious  privilege. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  LIFE 

Man  stands  upon  the  threshold  of  life.  The  question  might  well 
be  asked  :    Following  his  birth,  what  is  the  purpose  of  it  all  ? 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  following  significant  language  will  be  found  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  a  record  of  sacred  scripture : 

"Adam  fell  that  man  might  be  and  man  is  that  he  might  have  joy."  (Book 
of  Mormon,  page  54,  paragraph  25.) 

Men  are  here  upon  the  earth  then  that  they  might  have  joy.  Is 
there  anything  more  desirable  than  happiness  or  joy?  We  are  all 
seeking  it;  we  all  want  it.  How  is  it  to  be  obtained?  It  can  only  be 
obtained  through  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God.  How  may  one 
get  into  this  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  ?  The  answer  is :  he  must 
be  born  into  it.  He  was  born  into  the  world  to  begin  with,  and  now  if 
he  comes  into  the  kingdom  of  God  he  must  be  born  into  it. 

Christ  said  to  Nicodemus  upon  one  occasion: 

"Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the  Kingdom  of  God. 
"Except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the  spirit  he  cannot  enter  into  the 
Kingdom  of  God."    (John  3 :3,  4,  5.) 

So  that  it  becomes  in  a  sense  a  real  birth.  Baptism  by  water  and  the 
laying  on  of  hands  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  the  door  that 
leads  into  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God. 

MARRIAGE  FOR  ETERNITY 

It  might  be  said  of  man  that  after  coming  into  the  Church  and 
Kingdom  of  God  the  purpose  of  life  could  not  be  fully  realized  without 
marriage — marriage  for  time  and  eternity.  In  the  beginning,  when  man 
was  formed  from  the  dust  of  the  earth  and  became  a  living  soul,  he 
was  alone.  God  said:  "It  is  not  good  for  man  to  be  alone,"  and  he 
then  formed  the  woman  and  brought  her  to  the  man,  and  gave  her  to 
him  in  wedlock.    Jesus  said,  speaking  of  marriage : 

"Wherefore  they  are  no  more  twain,  but  one  flesh.  What  therefore  God 
hath  joined  together  let  no  man  put  asunder."    (Matt.  19:6.) 

A  man  cannot  grow  to  the  full  measure  of  a  man  without  a  woman, 
and  conversely  a  woman  cannot  grow  to  the  full  measure  of  a  woman 
without  a  man.  They  were  created  together  and  God  intended  them 
to  be  together  in  wedlock. 

If  men  and  women  are  to  enter  into  a  fulness  of  joy  it  must  needs 
be  that  the  family  relationship  should  continue  throughout  eternity. 
That  it  will  so  continue  in  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  is  the 
firm  belief  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  To;  be  born  into  the  world  in  the 
first  place,  and  then  to  be  born  again,  born  into  the  Kingdom  of  God, 
and  finally  to  enter  into  the  eternity  of  the  marriage  covenant — these 
three  conditions  explain  with  clearness  the  very  purpose  of  life.  Surely, 
brethren  and  sisters,  life  is  worth  living. 

I  testify  to  you  most  earnestly  that  I  do  know  that  the  work  in 
which  we  are  engaged  is  the  work  of  God  and  that  this  is  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.  It  is  so  denominated.  It  is  called  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  to  distinguish  it  from  his  Church  in  the 
meridian  of  time.    I  know  that  Christ  was  and  is  the  Savior  of  the 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


47 


world,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God  and  the  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  God  in  founding  this  work,  by  organizing  the  Church  as 
he  did  in  1830.  I  rejoice  in  this  knowledge.  To  me  it  is  a  glorious 
testimony,  and  I  am  determined,  if  possible,  to  hold  on  to  it  all  the  days 
of  my  life. 

I  pray  God's  choicest  blessings  upon  you  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church  and  the 
local  authorities,  that  this  work  may  go  on  and  be  successful.  This  is 
my  humble  prayer  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  have  been  deeply  impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  by  the 
splendid  instructions  of  the  First  Presidency  and  others  who  have 
spoken  during  this  conference  thus  far.  I  rejoice  with  you  in  the 
favorable  conditions  which  prevail,  and  the  measure  of  prosperity 
and  progress  in  evidence  among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  realize 
the  vast  work  that  is  before  us  to  do.  I  appreciate  the  tremendous 
responsibility  that  rests  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints,  both  tem- 
porally and  spiritually,  to  accomplish  that  which  the  Lord  has  in 
view  for  us.  It  is  incumbent  upon  every  one  of  us  to  do  our  part 
and  to  strive  to  qualify  ourselves  to  accomplish  the  work  assigned 
us.  For  the  building  up  of  the  Church  depends,  not  upon  one  or 
two  or  a  few,  but  upon  every  one  of  those  who  have  received  the 
gospel. 

The  responsibility  is  upon  each  one  of  us  to  learn  our  duty  and 
then  endeavor  to  do  it.  If  we  all  take  part,  if  we  all  perform  our 
work,  if  we  all  sense  that  responsibility  and  endeavor  to  live  up 
to  it,  we  shall  unitedly  receive  the  blessings  and  the  benefits.  This 
great  and  important  work  is  divine  in  its  nature,  and  is  intended  to 
fulfil  a  great  destiny.  It  is  to  prepare  the  way  for  the  coming  of  the 
Son  of  Man  and  the  establishment  of  righteousness,  to  build  up 
Zion,  and  to  do  all  those  things  which  the  Lord  has  declared  unto 
us.  So  it  means  that  every  one  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  both 
young  and  old,  should  seek  to  prepare  himself  or  herself  to  do  his 
part,  and  to  achieve  the  work  before  us. 

TEMPORAL  AND  SPIRITUAL  AFFAIRS 

I  was  greatly  impressed,  as  I  am  sure  you  were,  with  the 
statement  ,made  by  President  Grant,  at  the  opening  of  this  con- 
ference, regarding  the  material  achievements  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  in  one  respect  alone,  and  that  is  the  building  of  meeting 
houses,  amusement  halls,  and  stake  houses,  during  the  year  1927, 
and  during  the  nine  months  of  this  year.  The  Latter-day  Saints 
recognize  that  material  progress  and  temporal  affairs  are  bound  up 


48 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


with  the  spiritual;  and  we  cannot  dissociate  one  from  the  other; 
for  they  both,  temporal  and  spiritual,  affect  our  welfare.  We  can 
not  live  by  the  material  things  alone,  neither  can  we  live  entirely 
by  the  spiritual  things.  In  a  sense  all  things  are  spiritual,  because 
all  things  which  contribute  to  the  welfare  and  progress  of  man- 
kind in  this  life,  make  for  their  eternal  progress,  and  are  in  con- 
formity with  the  will  of  the  Lord.  The  Lord  has  promised  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  they  should  enjoy  prosperity — material  as 
well  as  spiritual.  If  we  live  in  such  a  way  as  to  merit  the  blessings 
of  God,  he  will  prosper  and  bless  us.  However,  the  possession  or 
absence  of  wealth  by  men  does  not,  of  itself,  evidence  the  attitude 
of  the  Lord  toward  them. 

When  we  think  of  what  is  required  in  the  way  of  the  building 
of  these  meeting  houses,  which  is  only  one  of  the  activities  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints — one  of  the  responsibilities  which  are  placed 
upon  us — we  realize  that  it  is  the  result  of  a  great  deal  of  labor 
and  money.  Money,  in  fact  represents  labor.  So  the  money  spent 
represents  the  accumulation  of  labor  previously  done  in  the  way 
of  production,  and  which  is  now  so  much  capital.  In  like  manner 
the  tithes  used  for  this  purpose  represent  the  accumulation  of 
labor  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  which  have  been  dedicated  to  the 
Lord.  The  members  themselves  in  their  own  wards  and  stakes 
have  given  a  tremendous  amount  of  labor,  and  of  means,  which 
also  represents  labor. 

LABOR — A  COMMAND  OF  GOD 

We  appreciate  the  fact  that  labor  is  one  of  the  means  whereby 
we  progress.  It  is  one  of  the  things  every  one  of  us  must  learn 
to  do.  It  is  one  of  the  great  factors  of  growth.  In  the  early  history 
of  mankind,  when  the  Lord  sent  Adam  out  of  Eden,  he  declared 
to  him :  "In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread,  till  thou, 
return  unto  the  ground ;  for  out  of  it  wast  thou  taken :  for  dust 
thou  art,  and  unto  dust  shalt  thou  return."  From  that  time  down 
to  the  present  time  this  charge  has  been  binding  upon  mankind, 
that  we  should  labor  diligently,  first,  that  we  may  provide  susten- 
ance for  ourselves  and  those  who  are  dependent  upon  us,  and, 
second,  that  we  may  also  give  or  dedicate  a  part  of  that  labor,  or 
the  returns  therefrom,  for  the  welfare  of  our  fellowmen  and  for  the 
accomplishment  of  God's  purposes.  If  we  keep  these  things  in 
mind  we  shall  appreciate  the  fact  that  our  labor  will  be  profitable. 

You  remember  many  centuries  later  that  the  Lord,  through  his 
prophet,  Moses,  gave  to  the  children  of  Israel  the  commandment ; 
"Six  days  shalt  thou  labor  and  do  all  thy  work,  but  the  seventh  is 
the  Sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy  God."  Six  days  are  sufficient  each 
week  in  order  to  accomplish  the  things  that  are  necessary  for  the 
sustenance  of  mankind,  and  the  seventh  day  should  be  a  day  of 
rest,  set  apart  for  the  worship  of  the  Lord,  for  the  consideration  of 
things  that  are  of  a  purely  spiritual  nature.    Nowadays,  with  the 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


49 


increased  use  of  machinery  and  the  consequent  greater  efficiency 
and  returns  of  labor,  it  is  coming  to  be  realized  that  five  days  of 
such  labor  each  week  will  be  sufficient  to  take  care  of  needed 
production,  and  will  be  instrumental  in  overcoming  unemployment. 
Under  such  an  arrangement  the  two  remaining  days  could  be 
profitably  used  for  rest,  improvement  and  recreation. 

BENEFITS  OF  PHYSICAL  LABOR 

Now,  of  the  benefits  that  come  to  us  from  labor,  there  is  a 
distinct  advantage  that  comes  from  the  fact  that  in  the  sweat  of 
our  face  we  learn  to  value  the  things  of  life.  It  brings  health  to 
us,  it  brings  satisfaction,  it  brings  an  appreciation  of  our  responsi- 
bilities. The  wise  man,  Solomon,  has  declared,  with  regard  to 
labor:  "Wealth  gotten  by  vanity  shall  be  diminished:  but  he  that 
gathereth  by  labor  shall  increase."  Again :  "He  that  tilleth  his, 
land  shall  have  plenty  of  bread:  but  he  that  followeth  after  vain 
persons  shall  have  poverty  enough."  Again :  "The  sleep  of  a 
laboring  man  is  sweet,  whether  he  eat  little  or  much :  but  the 
abundance  of  the  rich  will  not  suffer  him  to  sleep."  These  all 
testify  with  regard  to  the  benefits  that  come  to  us  from  physical 
labor. 

SPECIALIZATION  OF  LABOR 

In  the  centuries  that  have  elapsed  since  the  time  when  these 
men  in  the  early  history  of  mankind  pursued  a  simple,  pastoral  life* 
there  has  been  a  gradual  change  until  the  present  time.  Par- 
ticularly in  the  last  century,  however,  has  there  been  a  very  marked 
change  in  the  labor  conditions  that  prevail  throughout  the  world. 
It  is  true  that  the  pastoral  or  agricultural  pursuits  still  prevail  in 
large  measure.  They  are  just  as  dignified  and  important  as  they 
ever  have  been,  if  not  more  so.  But  in  addition  thereto  there  has 
been  a  multiplication  of  industries  which  have  brought  ab'out  not- 
able changes  and  great  progress  in  the  conditions  of  mankind. 
They  have  produced,  especially  in  this  country,  a  material  pros- 
perity that  is  unsurpassed  in  all  the  history  of  the  world.  Now,  if, 
along  with  that  material  prosperity,  produced  by  improvements 
in  labor  conditions  through  new  developments  and  specialization, 
we  can  keep  our  feet  firmly  planted  on  the  ground,  and  not  be 
carried  away  by  the  idea  that  prosperity  is  the  end  desired,  but 
only  a  means  to  that  end,  we  shall  enjoy  the  blessings  which  the 
Lord  has  promised. 

It  is  important  that  every  one  of  our  young  men  and  women, 
and  our  boys  and  girls,  shall  learn,  first,  to  understand  the  im- 
portance of  work,  and  second,  to  specialize  in  their  labors. 
It  is  an  age  of  specialization.  That  is  especially  true  at  the  present 
time.  "There  is  no  excellence  without  labor."  There  is  an  old 
Brahminical  saying,  something  to  this  effect :  "A  parent  who  does 
not  teach  his  son  a  trade  teaches  him  to  be  a  thief."   Whether  that 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  true  or  not,  the  fact  remains  that  it  is  important  that  every  one 
of  us  should  learn  to  do  some  particular  thing  well.  Every  one 
should  learn  some  trade  or  profession.  The  complex  conditions 
of  today  are  such  as  to  practically  force  us  to  develop  and  qualify  in, 
the  variety  of  industries  that  prevail  throughout  this  country  and 
the  world.  In  the  matter  of  agriculture,  for  instance,  it  is  recog- 
nized that  in  order  to  place  this  great  industry  upon  the  proper 
basis  of  economical  production  and  distribution,  it  involves  the 
application  of  those  principles  of  efficiency  in  connection  with  the 
employment  of  men  and  machinery  whereby  the  most  profitable 
results  will  be  secured.  Scientific  agriculture  is  a  profession  and 
it  involves  thorough  study  and  practical  preparation  to  insure  the 
greatest  success. 

OPPORTUNITIES  FOR  EMPLOYMENT 

Complaint  is  made  at  the  present  time  of  considerable  lack  of 
employment.  This  is  a  condition  that  deserves  careful  attention 
on  the  part  of  employers  and  Church  officers,  and  earnest  efforts 
to  remedy  it  as  far  as  possible.  This  condition,  however,  is  partly 
caused  by  those  without  employment  lacking  training  for  par- 
ticular jobs,  and  partly,  also,  by  failure  to  get  back  to  first  prin- 
ciples. Many  men,  out  of  employment,  could  largely  feed  and 
support  their  families  from  the  products  of  the  farm,  if  they  would 
diligently  apply  their  minds  and  bodies  to  such  work.  I  know 
of  men  living  on  a  few  acres  of  land,  not  generally  considered  most 
fertile,  who  have  produced  a  comfortable  living  for  their  families, 
through  dairy  products,  poultry,  hops,  orchards,  and  kitchen 
gardens. 

A  recent  instance  of  the  opportunities  open  to  those  seeking 
progress  and  independence  has  come  to  my  attention.  I  visited 
recently  at  the  home  of  a  young  man,  with  a  wife  and  two  little 
children,  in  an  outlying  section  of  this  state.  Two  or  three  years 
ago  he  was  working,  when  work  was  available,  at  small  wages. 
He  determined  to  start  for  himself  in  dairying.  He  had  no  home 
and  practically  no  credit.  His  wife  and  he  made  considerable 
sacrifice  in  a  very  humble  home  on  a  farm,  which  they  leased. 
He  managed  to  get  one  or  two  cows  as  a  start.  By  strict  economy 
hard  labor  and  mental  effort  he  now  has  a  fine  dairy  herd  of  about 
thirty  cows,  is  getting  a  monthly  cream  check  of  about  $400.00, 
and  is  feeding  calves  and  hogs  of  good  quality.  He  is  living  in  a 
comfortable  home  and  has  an  automobile.  He  is  a  bishop's  coun- 
selor. 

NO  CLERGY — NO  LAITY  ALL  TO  LABOR 

In  connection  with  this  matter  of  labor  the  attitude  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  is  vastly  different  from  that  of  the  world  gen- 
erally with  respect  to  the  occupations  of  those  engaged  in  Churc 
service.    With  the  exception  of  a  very  few  engaged  entirely  in 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


51 


Church  work,  the  thousands  of  men  in  this  Church  bearing;  the 
priesthood  have  their  individual  vocations.  Whereas  the  clergy 
in  other  churches  are  dependent  upon  the  laity  for  their  support, 
those  engaged  in  the  ministry  of  this  Church  give  a  part  of  their 
time  voluntarily  for  the  service  of  the  Lord  while  they,  at  the  samo 
time,  provide  for  their  families  by  their  own  efforts.  Among  the 
advantages  of  this  divine  plan  are  that  there  is  developed  in  then 
the  spirit  of  service,  self-reliance,  sympathy,  practicality,  a  desire 
for  knowledge  and  brotherly  kindness.  You  remember  the  state- 
ments of  the  apostles  of  old,  how  they  labored.  Paul,  especiall}' 
declared  repeatedly  how  he  had  worked  for  the  welfare  of  the  peo- 
ple and  yet  supported  himself.  In  his  epistle  to  the  Corinthian 
saints,  he  says :  "We  labor,  working  with  our  own  hands ;"  and 
again,  to  the  Thessalonion  saints,  he  says:  "For  ye  remember 
brethren,  our  labor  and  travail :  for  laboring  night  and  day,  be- 
cause we  would  not  be  chargeable  unto  any  of  you,  we  preached 
unto  you  the  gospel  of  God." 

MENTAL  AND  PHYSICAL  EFFORT 

It  is  important  that  everyone  should  learn  the  value  of  hard 
work.  The  Lord  commanded  Adam,  and  through  him,  all  his, 
descendants,  that  we  should  eat  our  bread  in  the  sweat  of  our  face 
or,  in  other  words,  by  earnest  effort,  whether  we  labor  physically 
or  mentally.  Mental  labor  is  often  just  as  strenuous,  and  just  as 
important,  if  not  more  so,  than  physical  labor.  Ordinarily,  whether 
our  vocation  is  chiefly  physical  or  mental  in  character,  we  have 
occasion  to  use  both  powers  in  that  which  we  have  to  do.  Well- 
balanced  development  involves  sustained  physical  as  well  as  mental 
efforts.  Paul  the  apostle  declared :  "Be  not  slothful  in  business  ; 
fervent  in  spirit ;  serving  the  Lord." 

IDLERS  HAVE  NO  PLACE  IN  ZION 

Solomon  says :  "Whatsoever  thy  hand  findeth  to  do,  do  it 
with  thy  might."  The  Apostle  Paul  says:  "We  commanded  you, 
that  if  any  would  not  work,  neither  should  he  eat."  And,  again : 
"Let  him  that  stole  steal  no  more :  but  rather  let  him  labor,  work- 
ing with  his  hands  the  thing  which  is  good,  that  he  may  have  to  give 
to  him  that  needeth."  In  the  revelations  which  the  Lord  has  given 
in  these  times  it  is  declared,  "Thou  shalt  not  be  idle;  for  he  that 
is  idle  shall  not  eat  the  bread  nor  wear  the  garments  of  the  laborer." 

President  Brigham  Young  on  one  occasion,  speaking  on  this 
subject,  declared:  "The  non-producer  must  live  on  the  products 
of  those  who  labor.  There  is  no  other  way.  If  we  would  all  labor 
a  few  hours  a  day  we  could  then  spend  the  remainder  of  our  time  in 
rest  and  the  improvement  pf  our  minds.  This  would  give  an  op- 
portunity to  all  the  children  to  be  educated  in  the  learning  of  the 
day  and  to  possess  all  the  wisdom  of  man."  Every  member  of  this) 
Church  ought  to  have  some  vocation  and  proceed  to  do  that  work 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  purpose  and  energy.  "Seest  thou  a  man  diligent  in  his  busi- 
ness? He  shall  stand  before  kings;  he  shall  not  stand  before  mean 
men."  We  need  to  learn  the  benefits  of  concentrated  effort.  Our 
purpose  should  be  to  gain  sufficient  resources  to  enable  us  to 
give  more  effective,  whole-hearted  service  to  the  work  of  the  Lord, 
besides  maintaining  satisfactorily  those  dependent  upon  us. 

DEDICATING  OF  OUR  LABOR  AND  TIME  TO  THE  LORD 

f  would  particularly  like  to  stress  the  idea  that  we  should  all 
willingly  and  gratefully  set  apart  a  considerable  portion  of  the  fruits 
of  our  labors  for  the  furtherance  of  God's  purposes  with  respecl 
to  mankind.  That  is  a  law  established  of  the  Lord  for  our  blessing 
and  benefit.  It  is  not  sufficient  that  we  should  help  only  in  com- 
munity activities.  That  is  a  proper  and  appropriate  thing.  We 
ought  to  take  part  in  those  movements  that  really  promote  the 
community  welfare.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  all  the  things  that  we  are 
doing  which  we  consider  we  do  for  the  Lord,  are  in  reality  for  the 
welfare  of  our  fellow-men.  The  tithing  which  we  pay  is  actually 
for  the  benefit  of  mankind.  We  dedicate  a  portion  of  our  means 
to  the  Lord  to  be  used  by  his  servants  in  the  promotion  of  those 
things  that  concern  mankind — in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel  of 
salvation,  the  building  of  places  of  worship  for  the  spiritual  train- 
ing and  recreational  welfare  of  all  who  desire  to  take  advantage  of 
the  same,  the  education  of  the  young  people,  the  help  and  welfare 
of  those  in  need,  the  erection  of  temples  for  sacred  ordinances,  and 
many  other  things. 

The  apostle  declares :  "I  have  shewed. you  all  things,  how  that 
so  laboring  ye  ought  to  support  the  weak,  and  to  remember  the 
words  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  how  he  said,  It  is  more  blessed  to  give 
than  to  receive."  All  of  these  things  we  ought  to  do.  AVe  ought 
to  be  diligent  in  our  labors  in  order  to  obtain  the  greatest  material 
and  spiritual  advancement,  keeping  in  mind  always  the  counsel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ:  "Labor  not  for  the  meat  which  perisheth. 
but  for  that  meat  which  endureth  unto  everlasting  life,  which 
the  Son  of  man  shall  give  unto  you." 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  guide  each  one  of  us  to  a  sense  of 
our  responsibilities,  whereby  we  may  strive  to  qualify  in  the  most 
effective  way  to  be  helpful  in  the  building  up  of  the  work  of  God. 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  what  is  right." 

ELDER  NOAH  S.  POND 

President  Northern  States  Mission 

My  Brethren  and  sisters :  I  deeply  appreciate  the  blessed  privilege 
of  being  associated  with  the  missionary  force  of  the  Church.  I  bring  to 
you  an  excellent  report  of  a  hundred  or  more  elders  and  sister  mission- 


ELDER  NOAH  S.  POND 


53 


aries  who  are  laboring  in  the  Northern  States  Mission.  The  blessings 
of  the  Lord  are  attending  our  labors,  and  we  are  receiving  progress 
through  conversions  and  in  a  chapel-building  program.  It  might  in- 
terest you  to  hear  a  few  of  the  experiences  of  some  of  your  sons  and 
daughters,  brothers  and  sisters. 

Recently  a  young  elder  had  an  excellent  conversation  with  a  gentle- 
man who  propounded  questions  and  presented  arguments  in  a  very 
kindly,  christian-like  spirit,  and  then  invited  the  young  elder  to  dine 
with  him.  After  they  had  dined  and  visited  and  exchanged  views  for  an 
hour  or  such  a  matter,  the  gentleman  revealed  his  identity.  He  was  a 
minister  of  the  gospel,  and  it  was  his  first  contact  with  a  Mormon  elder. 
Both  the  minister  and  the  elder  appeared  to  have  enjoyed  the  ex- 
perience. 

At  another  minister's  home  an  elder  was  given  the  privilege  of 
holding  a  gospel  meeting  in  the  minister's  church. 

Another  elder  was  given  the  privilege  of  holding  a  gospel  meeting 
in  a  large  community  hall,  through  the  fine  impression  that  the  elder 
had  made  upon  the  mind  of  the  gentleman  who  had  the  authority  to  let 
the  hall. 

Two  elders  were  entertained  in  the  home  of  a  mayor  of  an  eastern 
city  who  had  visited  Salt  Lake.  He  had  been  received  so  kindly  in  the 
temple  grounds  and  had  received  the  hospitality  of  the  people  to  such 
an  extent  that  he  went  home  with  the  resolution  that  he  would  extend 
similar  hospitality  to  the  Mormon  missionaries  when  they  should  come 
to  his  home,  and  this  he  did. 

Two  elders  were  refused  entertainment  in  a  very  unfriendly  and  in 
fact  a  hostile  attitude  at  a  well-appearing  residence,  but  a  change  of 
sentiment  came  over  this  man  and  after  the  elders  had  departed  he  sent 
his  son  in  an  automobile  to  overtake  them  and  bring  them  back.  He 
gave  them  entertainment,  something  to  eat,  a  good  bed  upon  which  to 
sleep,  breakfast  in  the  morning ;  and  when  they  left  him  he  placed  a 
dollar  bill  in  the  hand  of  each  of  the  missionaries  with  an  invitation  to 
visit  him  when  they  should  come  that  way  again.  This  change  of  senti- 
ment was  an  immediate  answer  to  prayer  by  these  two  elders. 

Recently  a  good  but  aged  brother  died  in  the  State  of  Wisconsin. 
Before  his  death  he  wrote  into  his  will  I  a  donation  of  five  hundred 
dollars  to  the  Church  for  the  furtherance  of  the  building  of  a  chapel. 
In  his  immediate  locality  there  had  existed  bitterness  and  prejudice 
against  our  people,  and  for  this  reason  little  if  any  missionary  work- 
had  been  successfully  carried  on.  This  good  brother  requested  that 
the  elders  should  speak  at  his  funeral.  He  died  in  a  few  weeks  time, 
and  the  large  public  hall  of  the  town  was  placed  at  their  disposal  for 
the  funeral  service.  Half  of  the  population  of  eight  hundred  people 
assembled  in  that  hall.  Of  that  congregation  of  four  hundred  people, 
less  than  a  score  were  members  of  the  Church.  It  was  a  wonderful 
incident,  for  we  could  verily  feel  the  vanishing  and  the  disappearance 
of  the  spirit  of  prejudice  and  bitterness  that  had  existed,  and  a  spirit 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  friendliness  and  sympathy  taking  its  place.  A  few  Sundays  there- 
after the  elders  were  invited  to  return.  They  went  there  and  organized 
a  Sunday  School,  and  we  now  have  hopes  of  conversions  and  finally  the 
establishment  of  a  branch  in  that  locality. 

Intolerance  has  played  its  part  in  the  experiences  of  the  mission- 
aries of  the  past,  but  it  appears  now  that  indifference  is  our  great 
obstacle.  When  the  minds  of  the  people  are  aroused,  frequently  the 
question  is  asked  of  us :  "Why  devote  time  and  effort  and  money  in 
such  a  highly  educated  and  christianized  nation  as  the  United  States? 
I  answer  with  a  quotation  from  the  Luther  Burbank  book,  "The 
Harvest  of  the  Years,"  in  which  Mr.  Burbank  says: 

"After  more  than  thirteen  centuries  of  Mohammedanism,  twenty  centuries 
of  Christianity,  twenty-five  centuries  of  Buddhism  and  Confucianism,  and 
four  thousand  years  of  Hebrew  religion,  we  are  still  greedy,  selfish,  cruel, 
short-sighted  and  ready  to  go  to  war  at  almost  any  pretext  and  fritter  away 
the  savings  of  decades,  the  flower  of  our  youth  and  the  friendliness  that  it  has 
taken  a  half  century  to  build  up." 

Only  the  living  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  can  make  men  better. 
With  only  forty  per  cent  of  the  population  of  the  United  States  identi- 
fied with  any  church  or  ecclesiastical  organization — Catholic,  Jewish  or 
Protestant — the  answer  to  that  question  is  clear ;  the  necessity  of  preach- 
ing the  gospel  in  the  great  nation  of  the  United  States.  The  virtues  of 
courage,  generosity,  loyalty  and  willingness  to  sacrifice  are  fine.  Peo- 
ple may  be  highly  educated,  but  yet  be  wicked,  cruel  and  ruthless. 
People  may  be  wealthy  and  prosperous  and  yet  without  that  higher 
level  of  a  spiritual  life.  And  so  it  is  necessary  that  we  preach  Jesus 
Christ  and  him  crucified,  and  the  principles  of  his  gospel. 

May  God  bless  the  people  of  this  nation  and  of  our  Church.  May 
the  kindly  blessings  of  the  Lord  be  showered  upon  the  First  Presidency, 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  all  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church, 
upon  the  authorities  of  the  wards  and  the  stakes,  and  upon  the  won- 
derful missionary  forces  throughout  the  world.  My  dear  brethren  and 
sisters,  presiding  authorities  and  saints — do  all  in  your  power  to  send 
your  sons  and  daughters  out  into  the  mission  field,  and  may  God  add  his 
blessings,  is  my  humble  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

I 

ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  sincerely  trust  that  the  Lord  will  assist 
me  in  making  a  brief  report  of  conditions  in  the  field  of  labor  to  which 
I  have  been  called.  It  has  been,  practically,  six  months  time  since  I 
went  into  that  field — a  short  time  more  than  that.  At  the  present 
time  we  have  ninety-six  missionaries  in  the  Western  States  Mission 
laboring  in  the  states  of  New  Mexico,  Colorado,  Wyoming  and  Ne- 
braska, with  a  few  in  the  southwesterrn  corner  of  South  Dakota,  and 
two  elders  and  two  sisters  in  Council  Bluffs,  Iowa — a  Church  popula- 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF 


55 


tion  of  about  six  thousand,  six  hundred  members — with  twenty-one 
more  or  less  well  organized  branches,  and  quite  a  number  of  scattered 
families.  As  you  know,  the  Western  States  Mission  lies  close  to  the 
Church  at  home,  and  in  some  of  our  districts,  particularly  Western 
Colorado  and  Wyoming,  conditions  are  about  as  they  are  at  home,  except 
for  the  scattered  condition  of  the  people.  Practically  no  prejudice 
to  overcome,  perhaps  a  good  deal  of  indifference,  but  the  great  task 
the  missionaries  have,  as  I  see  it,  is  to  teach  the  people  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel ;  for  many  of  them  are  in  a  receptive  attitude.  Many  of 
them  are  friendly  and  willing  to  listen  to  our  message. 

The  experiences  of  the  missionaries  are  interesting,  to  be  sure.  I 
want  to  pay  tribute,  if  I  may,  to  these  young  men  and  women  who  come 
to  the  mission  field,  converted  in  their  hearts  to  the  principles  of  the 
gospel,  not  altogether  aware  of  the  fact  that  they  are  converted,  but 
genuine  and  sincere  in  their  desire  to  do  the  will  of  the  Father.  The 
principal  thing  they  need  is  just  to  be  taught,  guided  and  led  into  the 
way  of  their  duty,  for  they  are  all  willing  and  anxious  to  learn ;  and  it 
is  a  remarkable  thing  how  fast  they  do  learn  when  they  can  have 
competent  supervision.  I  have  in  mind,  for  instance,  one  district  in 
which  it  so  happened  that  six  young  men  were  laboring,  only  one  of 
them  having  been  in  the  field  longer  than  a  year,  the  rest  of  them  not 
longer  than  six  months,  four  months,  and  three  months.  It  so  happened 
that  the  elders  formerly  laboring  with  them,  the  experienced  elders, 
had  been  released  all  at  once.  Fortunately  for  us  we  had  an  elder 
sent  to  us  as  a  short-term  missionary,  the  superintendent  of  one  of 
our  seminaries,  a  wonderfully  strong  character,  humble,  intelligent, 
wise ;  and  it  was  my  privilege  to  send  him  into  that  district  for  two 
months  time  to  labor  with  those  young  missionaries.  Two  weeks  ago 
I  followed  him  up  and  came  through  there.  He  had  been  released,  but 
the  transformation  in  those  six  missionaries  was  wonderful.  Each  of 
them  was  able,  with  considerable  ability,  to  express  himself,  to  teach 
the  gospel ;  because  they  had  had  a  competent  teacher  to  give  them  a 
start.  In  other  districts  experienced  elders  fill  such  places,  and  the 
young  elders  and  sisters,  who  come  out  are  laboring  under  their  direc- 
tion, and  they  improve  themselves  very  quickly.  They  are  anxious, 
as  I  have  said,  to  learn,  anxious  to  teach. 

We  came  to  the  conclusion  as  a  result  of  a  conference  of  district 
presidents  held  in  our  mission,  that  it  would  be  wise  if  every  elder  in 
the  mission  could  have  at  least  two  weeks  every  year,  traveling  without 
purse  or  scrip,  in  the  summer  time.  We  felt  that  it  would  bring  them 
nearer  to  the  Lord  and  nearer  to  the  people;  with  the  result  that  I 
can  report  every  elder  in  the  Western  States  Mission  has  had  that 
experience  this  year,  and  without  exception  they  come  back  reporting 
that  they  have  had  a  splendid  experience.  Perhaps  not  altogether  a 
pleasant  one,  but  they  are  delighted  with  their  experience.  It  was  their 
testimony  that  it  was  a  good  thing  to  do.  Two  of  them  started  out 
with  great  confidence ;  when  they  discovered  that  the  Lord  was  bless- 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ing  them  and  raising  up  friends  for  them  they  were  over-confident,  with 
the  result  they  had  to  spend  one  night  in  a  corn  field  and  eat  the  green 
corn,  but  they  were  soon  humbled  and  thereafter  in  response  to  their 
appeal  they  were  never  without  friends. 

Perhaps  another  interesting  experience  that  has  come  to  the  elders 
in  New  Mexico  might  be  worth  relating.  A  very  unusual  thing,  and 
for  it  I  have  no  explanation.  A  woman  with  Lamanite  blood  in  her; 
veins  became  interested  in  the  elders  and  their  message.  She  purchased 
a  Book  of  Mormon  and  read  it  partly  through,  laid  it  up  on  top  of  her 
library,  put  a  portable  typewriter  on  top  of  the  book,  locked  up  her 
house  and  went  away  to  visit  her  daughter.  In  her  absence  her  house 
burned  to  ashes.  When  she  came  back  and  was  searching  among  the 
ruins  of  her  home  the  spirit  seemed  to  say  to  her,  "Go  get  your  book." 
She  went  over  to  where  the  library  had  been  and  poked  among  the 
ashes  and  found  the  typewriter  burned  and  twisted.  Under  the 
typewriter  she  found  her  Book  of  Mormon,  covered  with  a  white 
paper  cover,  as  we  cover  the  fifty  cent  edition  that  we  send  out.  The 
paper  cover  was  scorched  but  the  book  was  unharmed.  All  of  the 
rest  of  her  books  were  entirely  burned.  The  woman  brought  the  book 
out  and  came  to  the  elders  in  great  astonishment  and  showed  them  what 
had  happened,  how  it  had  been  miraculously  saved.  I  saw  the  woman, 
I  saw  the  book,  and  I  felt  a  certain  amount  of  reverential  awe  when  I 
held  it  in  my  hand.  We  wanted  to  purchase  it  from  her,  but  she  would, 
not  part  with  her  wonderful  relic.  She  has  since  become  a  member 
of  the  Church. 

I  have  to  say  to  you  that  your  missionary  sons  and  daughters  who 
are  laboring  in  the  Western  States,  with  two  exceptions  are  all  well, 
enjoying  good  health.  The  two  who  are  not  well  are  lady  missionaries, 
one  in  the  Latter-day  Saints  Hospital  in  Salt  Lake  City  and  the  other 
at  Council  Bluffs.  That  you  may  not  be  concerned  or  think  it  is  your 
daughter,  let  me  say  that  the  mothers  of  these  girls  know  where  their 
daughters  are.  The  missionaries  are  happy  in  their  labors  and  are 
enjoying  their  work. 

One  thing  I  would  like  to  say  to  you  is  that  when  you  write  to 
your  missionary  sons  and  daughters  write  them  encouraging  words 
and  do  not  worry  about  when  they  are  going  to  be  released.  I  have 
noticed  in  some  cases  where  the  fathers  and  mothers  anticipate  the 
release  of  their  missionaries,  the  missionaries  themselves  become  so 
interested  in  their  release,  about  ninety  days  before  it  happens  they  let 
down  in  their  work  and  lose  to  some  extent  the  spirit  of  their  mission. 
You  do  them  a  great,  injustice  when  you  make  them  feel  that  they 
should  come  home,  or  that  you  are  anxious  to  have  them  come  home. 
Write  them  encouraging  letters  and  tell  them  you  want  them  to  remain 
as  long  as  they  can.  If  you  have  any  financial  worries  write  to  the 
mission  president  and  not  to  the  missionary.  The  mission  president 
I  am  sure  will  always  be  sympathetic  with  you  in  your  troubles,  but 
keep  your  troubles  away  from  your  missionary  sons  or  daughters. 


ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 


57 


We  have  one  missionary  in  our  mission  who  I  am  told  is  about  ready 
to  come  home  because  he  does  not  get  encouragement  from  home;  he 
feels  discouraged.  That  is  very  serious  and  ought  not  to  happen.  If 
you  will  encourage  them  you  will  bless  and  help  them  wonderfully. 

I  want  to  testify  that  the  hand  of  the  Lord  is  over  us  to  protect  us 
and  inspire  us  in  all  that  we  do.  As  long  as  we  remain  humble  we 
enjoy  a  wonderful  spirit.  We  are  very  happy  in  our  labors  and  we  are 
trying  in  our  humble  way  to  carry  the  gospel  message  as  plainly  and 
simply  as  we  can.  May  God  bless  you,  I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 

President  of  the  Northcentral  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  joy  to  me  to  be  able  to  report 
conditions  in  the  Northcentral  States  Mission.  We  are  the  youngest 
mission  in  the  United  States,  and  the  smallest  mission  in  numbers.  We 
have  been  organized  only  about  three  and  one-half  years.  Our  mission 
includes  the  State  of  Montana  east  of  Great  Falls,  North  Dakota, 
South  Dakota,  and  Minnesota ;  then  passes  over  into  Canada  and  takes 
Ontario  west  of  the  Great  Lakes,  Manitoba,  Saskatchewan  and  part 
of  Alberta.  When  the  mission  was  organized  we  numbered  only  about 
nineteen  hundred  people.  I  should  like  to  say  in  behalf  of  the  young 
men  and  young  women  who  come  to  our  mission  that  they  have  been 
very  loyal  and  faithful  in  the  performance  of  their  duties.  I  should 
rather  change  President  Pond's  invitation  wherein  he  solicited  that  you 
send  your  boys  and  girls  into  the  field,  I  should  like  to  say  to  you. 
brethren,  come  yourselves,  we  need  some  more  older  brethren  in  the 
work,  to  go  with  these  young  elders,  men  who  have  wisdom  and 
discretion  and  who  can  lead  out  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

Not  long  ago,  during  the  cold  winter  months,  four  missionaries 
came  to  our  mission.  We  left  headquarters  in  Minneapolis  and  traveled 
five  hundred  miles  north  to  the  city  of  Winnipeg.  We  started  up  the 
street  on  a  street  car.  When  we  got  off  the  car  to  go  to  a  restaurant 
just  across  the  road,  there  was  a  bitter  wind  blowing,  and  the  weather 
was  exceedingly  cold.  These  elders,  four  of  them,  had  a  grip  in 
each  hand.  We  had  not  gotten  very  far  from  the  street  car  when 
every  one  of  them  had  dropped  his  grips  and  was  holding  his  ears 
to  keep  them  from  freezing.  I  went  back  to  help  them  along  and  got 
them  into  the  restaurant.  After  we  had  given  our  orders  for  our  dinner 
I  said :  "I  will  see  if  I  can  get  in  touch  with  the  elders  here."  One 
of  the  elders  turned  to  a  companion  and  said:  "Wouldn't  this  make 
you  ask  for  your  release?"  and  he  said  other  things  but  I  don't  know 
what  they  were.  When  I  got  on  the  train  with  two  of  these  mission- 
aries to  go  to  Saskatoon  (the  other  two  went  to  Regina) — one  of  them 
said :  "When  you  get  to  Regina  that  elder  will  not  be  there."  I  said 
"Why?"    He  replied:    "This  country  is  too  cold  for  him."    He  was 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


an  office  man  and  had  been  working  where  it  was  warm  all  the  time. 
When  I  arrived  in  Regina  we  held  a  priesthood  meeting,  and  this 
young  man  was  given  an  opportunity  to  express  himself.  He  arose 
and  said :  "I  am  prepared  to  give  all  I  have,  even  to  my  life,  for  this 
work."  That  is  the  kind  of  integrity  that  is  in  the  hearts  of  these  young 
men  and  young  women  who  go  out  from  Zion  to  preach  the  gospel. 
That  integrity  is  not  confined  to  the  missionaries  only,  but  it  is  in  the 
hearts  of  the  parents.  Only  yesterday  I  met  two  parents  and  I  was 
asked:  "How  is  my  boy?"  He  is  a  very  fine,  splendid  young  man. 
Not  long  ago  I  said  to  the  president  of  his  district:  "We  must  take 
this  elder  out  and  make  a  president  of  him."  And  he  said:  "Before 
you  do  it  I  want  to  talk  to  you.  Don't  take  him  away ;  he  is  the  finest 
man  we  have  in  our  district.  We  can't  get  along  without  him."  I 
said  to  those  parents:  "How  long  has  he  been  in  the  field?"  "Two 
years  this  month."  "How  are  your  finances  to  keep  him  longer?" 
"We  haven't  any,  but  we  have  as  much  now  as  we  had  when  he  went 
out;"  and  then  the  father  said,  with  tears  in  his  eyes:  "Everything 
we  have  is  on  the  altar,  and  you  keep  him  as  long  as  you  want  him." 
That  is  the  kind  of  faith  that  has  permeated  this  work  frdm  its  in- 
ception.   That  is  the  kind  of  faith  that  will  consummate  this  work. 

Not  long  ago  two  of  our  elders  sat  in  the  rear  of  a  building  where 
a  meeting  was  being  addressed  by  the  Governor  of  the  State  of 
Minnesota.  At  the  close  of  the  meeting  the  Governor  went  down 
the  aisle  and  said  to  these  young  elders  :  "I  understand  you  are  Mormon 
elders  from  Utah."  "Yes."  '  "Well,  I  received  a  Book  of  Mormon, 
from  the  headquarters  of  your  mission  not  long  ago,  and  I  want  to 
thank  you  personally  for  the  teachings  of  that  wonderful  book.  When- 
ever you  come  to  St.  Paul  come  in  and  see  me.  I  would  like  to  have 
you  visit  me  in  my  office."  The  people  of  Minnesota  and  those  states 
where  we  are  laboring,  are  many  of  them  of  good  old  Scandinavian 
stock,  and  they  believe  the  gospel  when  it  is  properly  put  up  to  them. 

We  feel  encouraged  in  our  work,  and  are  determined  to  go  forth 
with  all  the  power  and  zeal  that  God  has  given  us  for  the  accom- 
plishment of  his  purposes  among  men ;  and  our  greatest  need  is  more 
missionaries.  We  have  whole  cities  with  only  one  pair  of  elders  in  them. 
What  can  one  pair  of  elders  do  in  a  big  city,  to  make  proclamation  of 
the  gospel  of  the  Son  of  God  ?  I  pray  that  God  will  inspire  the  people 
of  this  Church,  that  we  may  look  more  abundantly  to  the  prosecution 
of  this  great  and  important  work  that  the  Lord  has  given  us,  in  that 
we  will  not  only  send  our  boys,  but  that  we  will  break  away  occasion- 
ally and  come  ourselves.  Presidents  of  stakes,  bishops  of  wards, 
men  of  experience,  it  will  make  you  bigger  men  and  you  will  be  able 
to  render  valuable  service  in  the  world  preaching  the  gospel.  I  pray 
that  the  Lord  will  bless  you  in  your  finances  and  in  your  desires,  that 
you  may  be  able  to  do  this,  that  we  may  have  in  the  mission  field  more 
of  the  older  brethren. 

I  can't  speak  too  highly  for  the  young  ladies  of  our  mission,  young 


ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 


59 


ladies  who  have  come  into  the  world  to  preach  the  gospel.  They  can 
get  into  the  homes  of  the  people  and  find  an  opportunity  for  explaining 
the  gospel  where  the  elder  cannot  go.  Send  us  more  lady  missionaries. 
We  have  had  no  trouble  with  a  single  lady  missionary  in  our  field. 
I  was  not  wholly  in  favor  of  lady  missionaries  when  I  first  went  out, 
because  I  thought  they  would  cause  so  much  trouble;  but  now  I  am 
always  glad  to  see  them  come,  because  my  experience  has  taught  me 
that  they  can  do  a  great  work. 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  is  the  work 
of  God,  that  he  has  established  it  and  that  he  will  carry  it  on,  through 
his  servants  and  handmaidens  in  the  earth.  The  faith  of  this  people, 
both  at  home  and  abroad,  is  sufficient  to  carry  this  work  successfully 
through,  and  the  Lord's  purposes  will  be  brought  about  and  his  righteous 
designs  established  among  men.  I  am  grateful  in  my  heart  for  the 
privilege  of  laboring  in  the  ministry  of  the  Lord.  I  would  like  to  be 
able  to  perform  the  duties  devolving  upon  me  in  a  manner  that  shall  be 
acceptable  and  pleasing  to  him.  May  God  grant  us  his  Spirit  and  his 
influence  and  power  in  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  and  in  the  building 
up  of  his  kingdom,  both  at  home  and  abroad,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

god's  work  and  man's 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  a  wonderful 
organization.  And  it  ought  to  be,  for  it  is  the  work  of  God  and  not  of 
man.  It  used  to  be  said  that  the  "Mormon"  Church  was  the  most 
perfect  organization  in  existence — excepting  the  German  army.  In 
rhetoric  this  would  be  called  an  anti-climax ;  in  common  parlance  a  let- 
down. As  if  one  were  to  say,  The  sun  is  the  brightest  luminary  in  the 
heavens — except  the  moon. 

There  is  no  possible  comparison  between  the  work  of  God  and  the 
work  of  man.  The  German  army  at  its  best  represented,  perhaps,  the 
quintessence  of  military  wisdom,  drawn  from  the  experience  of  the 
ages — but  it  was  man's  wisdom.  The  Church  of  God  is  a  product  of 
Divine  Wisdom,  and  there  is  nothing  like  it  in  all  the  world. 

THE  CHURCH  ON  EARTH  AND  IN  HEAVEN 

I  believe,  and  think  I  have  good  reason  to  believe,  that  this  Church, 
so  far  as  it  has  been  developed,  is  a  replica  or  duplicate  of  a  Church  in 
the  heaven  of  heavens,  a  Church  presided  over  by  the  Father,  the  Son, 
and  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  great  First  Presidency  over  the  Universe. 
Joseph  the  Seer,  having  beheld  in  vision  that  heavenly  Church,  under- 
took by  divine  command  to  reproduce  it  on  earth ;  and  did  so  as  far  as 
possible  amidst  the  crude  and  primitive  conditions  under  which  he 
labored.  It  had  a  humble  beginning,  this  infant  Church;  but  it  has 
been  growing  and  developing  ever  since,  approximating  nearer  and 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


nearer  to  the  perfection  it  is  destined  finally  to  attain.  Some  day  wc 
shall  have  in  the  midst  of  mankind  the  fully  matured  and  perfect 
Church  of  Christ,  and  the  will  of  God  shall  then  be  done  on  earth 
even  as  it  is  done  in  heaven. 

STAKES   AND  MISSIONS 

President  Grant,  in  his  opening  address  yesterday  morning,  drew 
attention  to  the  fact  that  the  Church  today  comprises  one  hundred  and 
one  Stakes  of  Zion  and  twenty-seven  outside  missions.  The  stakes 
extend  through  the  Rocky  Mountain  region  from  Canada  to  Mexico, 
and  to  parts  of  the  Pacific  Coast ;  while  the  missions  cover  the  various 
States  of  the  Union  and  most  of  the  countries  of  the  globe.  These 
constitute  in  area,  membership  and  organization,  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

INDEPENDENT  AND  DEPENDENT 

Each  stake  is  officered  and  equipped  in  such  a  way  as  to  constitute 
almost  a  church  in  itself.  The  stakes,  are  all  independent  of  one  an- 
other, yet  subject  to  the  stake  authority — the  spiritual  "binding  pole" 
that  makes  of  them  one  stake.  Even  so  with  the  missions  and  their 
subdivisions ;  each  is  subject  to  the  authority  above  it — the  branch  to 
the  district,  the  district  to  the  mission.  And  the  missions,  like  the 
stakes,  are  all  under  the  General  Authority  which  holds  them  to- 
gether and  makes  of  them  one  Church. 

THE  EASTERN  STATES  MISSION 

I  have  recently  returned  from  visiting  the  Eastern  States  Mission, 
presided  over  by  Elder  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  in  whose  company  I  traveled 
through  nine  States  of  the  Union  and  the  District  of  Columbia,  holding 
conferences  in  seven  of  those  commonwealths  and  preaching  the  Gospe! 
in  the  principal  cities,  including  Washington,  Baltimore,  New  York, 
Philadelphia  and  Boston.  I  greatly  enjoyed  my  travels  in  that  very 
interesting  region — the  land  of  the  Sacred  Grove,  where  Joseph  the 
Prophet  beheld  in  vision  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and 
received  from  them  instructions  relative  to  the  opening  of  this  Gospel 
dispensation ;  the  land  of  the  Hill  Cumorah,  where  the  record  of  the 
Nephites  was  unearthed  by  divine  direction,  that  the  world  might  know 
the  truth  concerning  the  glorious  past  and  yet  more  glorious  future  of 
America ;  the  land  where  Zion,  the  New  Jerusalem,  is  to  rise,  and 
where  a  work  has  already  begun  that  will  prepare  the  way  for  the  coming 
of  the  Lord  in  his  glory.  In  that  great  mission  also  is  the  town  of 
Palmyra,  where  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  first  printed;  and  the  little 
village  of  Fayette,  where  the  Church  was  organized  on  the  sixth  day 
of  April  in  the  year  1830. 

I  enjoyed  my  association  and  labors  with  President  Rolapp,  as  I 
previously  enjoyed  the  companionship  of  President  Callis  in  the' South- 
ern States,  and  of  President  Quinney  in  Canada — all  zealous  and  hon- 
orable men  of  God. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


61 


WORLDLY  AND  HEAVENLY  THINGS 

What  most  impressed  me  during  my  travels  was  not  the  beautiful 
and  sublime  scenes  through  which  I  passed,  not  the  many  objects  of 
historic  interest  presented  to  my  view.  New  York,  with  its  towering 
sky-scrapers — that  busy  Babel  of  many  tongues,  where  modern  men, 
like  their  ancient  prototypes,  seem  trying  to  get  to  heaven  in  some 
other  way  than  the  God  of  heaven  has  appointed — "The  Great  White 
Way,"  for  instance;  the  spacious  and  splendid  railroad  depots,  where 
one  is  almost  lost  in  the  multitudinous  concourses  of  people  crowding 
to  or  coming  from  the  outgoing  and  incoming  trains ;  the  glittering 
palaces,  stately  monuments,  magnificent  public  buildings,  and  all  the 
other  evidences  of  wealth,  power  and  civilization  that  are  to  be  seen  on 
every  hand — these  were  not  the  things  that  most  impressed  me.  For 
I  thought,  with  Shakespeare,  as  I  gazed  upon  them: 

"The  ckmd-capt  towers,  the  gorgeous  palaces. 
The  solemn  temples,  the  great  globe  itself — 
Yea,  all  that  it  inherit,  shall  dissolve, 
And  like  the  baseless  fabric  of  a  vision, 
Leave  not  a  rack  behind." 

god's  GREATEST  GIFT 

In  that  day  one  thing  will  remain.  What  is  it?  Eternal  Life, 
God's  greatest  gift.    That  will  abide  when  all  else  has  passed  away. 

The  millennial  reign  of  Christ  will  sanctify  the  earth,  and  help  to 
prepare  it  for  celestial  glory;  but  it  must  first  undergo  a  baptism  of 
fire,  in  which  its  elements  will  "melt  with  fervent  heat,"  and  all  the 
dross  of  its  mortality  be  consumed.  Then,  by  the  power  of  the  resur- 
rection, Mother  Earth  will  rise  again,  changed  into  a  glorious  sphere, 
a  heaven;  and  the  righteous  will  inherit  it  eternally. 

WHAT   MOST  IMPRESSED 

What  most  impressed  me  was  the  love  of  Truth,  the  love  of  the 
Gospel,  in  the  hearts  of  the  Elders,  our  boy  and  girl  missionaries ;  in 
the  hearts  also  of  the  scattered  Saints ;  and  manifested  to  a  degree  by 
the  honest  investigators  of  our  doctrines  and  claims,  those  who  attend 
the  meetings  of  the  Saints  and  listen  respectfully  and  appreciatively  to 
the  testimonies  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord.  Their  love  for  the  Gospel 
and  their  reverence  for  those  who  preach  it,  beamed  from  every  face 
and  lingered  in  every  hand-clasp. 

I  don't  wonder  that  they  love  the  Gospel.  I  love  it.  We  all 
love  it.  It  is  the  greatest,  grandest  and  most  glorious  thing  under  the 
sun. 

THE  GOSPEL  OF  COMMON  SENSE 

Next  to  the  beauty  and  sublimity  of  the  Gospel,  I  appreciate  it 
for  its  plain,  sound  common  sense.  It  satisfies  the  cravings  of  the  soul ; 
answers  every  question  that  needs  answering  and  solves  every  problem 
that  ought  to  be  solved.   It  makes  clear  life's  meaning  and  purpose,  and 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


reveals  to  man  his  origin,  duty  and  eternal  destiny.  It  tells  the  truth 
about  God  and  enables  one  to  comprehend  the  things  of  God. 

THE  TRUE  GOD 

The  God  we  worship — who  is  he?  What  is  he?  He  is  the  God  of 
the  Bible,  the  God  of  Adam,  of  Enoch,  of  Noah,  of  Melchizedek,  the 
God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob ;  the  God  who  made  man  in  his 
own  image.  He  is  our  God ;  but  he  was  not  the  God  that  the  churches 
were  teaching  and  their  congregations  worshiping  when  Joseph  Smith 
and  "Mormonism"  came  forth.  The  Christian  world  had  conjured 
up  an  impersonal  god,  a  bodiless  deity,  a  spirit  that : 

"Warms  in  the  sun,  refreshes  in  the  breeze, 
Glows  in  the  stars  and  blossoms  in  the  trees, 
Lives  through  all  life,  extends  through  all  extent, 
Spreads  undivided,  operates  unspent." 

A  very  beautiful  description — of  something,  but  no  correct  por- 
trait of  the  true  and  living  God.  There  is  indeed  a  spirit  that  proceeds 
forth  from  him  and  is  immanent  in  all  things.  It  is  the  power  by 
which  the  grass  grows,  the  flowers  bloom,  and  the  trees  bear  their 
fruit.  It  is  the  light  of  the  sun,  moon  and  stars,  and  the  lamp  of  the 
human  understanding.  All  men  and  women  have  a  portion  of  it,  are 
born  into  the  world  with  it.  It  is  the  principle  of  life  and  light  through- 
out all  creation. 

But  that  is  not  our  Father  in  Heaven ;  no,  nor  our  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ;  nor  the  Holy  Ghost  as  a  personage;  it  is  not  even  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is  the  exclusive  possession  of  members  of  the 
Church  of  Christ.  It  is  not  God,  but  a  spirit  sent  forth  from  God,  not 
Divinity,  but  an  emanation  from  Divinity ;  and  it  was  what  the  Chris- 
tian world  was  worshiping,  or  what  Christian  teachers  were  teaching, 
when  Joseph  Smith  and  the  restored  Gospel  came. 

Joseph  knew  God,  ior  he  had  seen  him,  had  conversed  with  him, 
and  received  from  him  instruction.  He  declared  God  to  be  in  human 
form,  an  exalted,  glorified  Man,  and  that  was  his  first  great  service  to 
humanity.  He  brought  back  the  lost  knowledge  of  the  true  and  living 
God. 

MAN    IN   THE  DIVINE  IMAGE 

And  how  reasonable,  how  logical  it  is.  What  simple,  plain  com- 
mon sense.  For  if  God  made  man  in  his  own  image,  then  God  must 
be  in  the  image  of  man.  And  if  men  and  women  are  indeed  God's 
children,  his  sons  and  daughters,  what  more  reasonable  than  the 
conclusion  that  we  have  a  Mother  as  well  as  a  Father  in  Heaven,  in 
whose  likeness  we  are,  male  and  female? 

NOT  CREATED  OUT  OF  NOTHING 

The  churches  were  also  teaching  that  God  made  this  beautiful  earth 
and  all  that  it  contains  out  of  nothing.    Why,  a  ten-year  old  boy 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


63 


ought  to  reject  such  a  dogma  as  that.  How  can  something  be  made  out 
of  nothing?  Think  of  it  a  moment!  God  never  gave  such  a  doctrine; 
Jesus  never  taught  it;  neither  did  his  apostles.  Neither  did  Joseph 
Smith.  In  the  Book  of  Abraham,  translated  by  him,  the  Lord  is  quoted 
as  saying,  "unto  those  who  were  with  him"  on  the  morning  of  creation : 
"We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there,  and  we  will  take  of  these 
materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon  these  may  dwell." 

That  is  "Mormon"  doctrine  and  it  is  plain  common  sense,  true 
philosophy,  in  perfect  accord  with  true  science.  Science  declared  long 
ago  that  it  is  impossible  to  create  or  destroy  an  atom  of  matter ;  and 
divine  revelation  proclaimed  it  long  before  science  did.  The  elements 
•  are  eternal;  matter  as  well  as  spirit  is  uncreatable,  indestructible. 
Out  of  the  eternal  elements  God  created  the  earth  spiritually  and 
temporally,  with  all  that  it  contains. 

life's  purpose 

And  this  earth  is  for  God's  children,  for  you  and  me  and  all  the 
rest  of  the  race.  We  are  placed  here  as  spirits  to  take  bodies  and 
thus  become  souls,  capable  of  endless  increase  and  eternal  progression ; 
to  be  tested  in  this  our  second  estate,  as  we  were  tested  in  our  first 
our  spirit  estate.  Here  we  walk  by  faith,  whereas  in  the  spirit  world, 
we  walked  by  sight.  We  kept  the  first  estate  and  won  the  privilege 
of  coming  into  this  second  estate,  with  the  promise  that  if  we  manifest 
equal  integrity  here,  we  shall  have  glory  added  upon  our  heads  forever 
and  ever. 

WHERE  WE  SHALL  SPEND  ETERNITY 

What  is  the  Lord  going  to  do  with  this  beautiful  world?  Did 
he  create  it  merely  to  destroy  it?  No.  He  is  going  to  change  it  into 
a  heaven,  a  home  for  the  righteous.  I  picked  up  a  card  on  a  railroad 
train  one  day,  a  card  on  which  was  printed  this  question:  "Where  do 
you  expect  to  spend  eternity?"  A  very  interesting  query;  and  a  very 
difficult  one  for  some  people  to  answer.  But  "Mormonism"  answers 
it,  and  it  is  the  only  religion  that  can  answer  it  consistently.  "Mor- 
monism" says  that  when  we  pass  out  of  the  body  we  are  in  the  spirit 
world,  and  will  remain  there,  the  righteous  resting  from  their  labors — 
not  in  idleness,  but  in  doing,  working  without  weariness,  without  pain, 
while  awaiting  a  glorious  resurrection,  when  they  are  to  have  the 
privilege  of  coming  back  to  spend  their  time  on  this  planet,  when  it  is 
celestialized  and  converted  into  a  heaven. 

HOW  SHALL  WE  SPEND  ETERNITY? 

About  the  time  that  I  picked  up  that  card  and  read  the  question 
thereon,  a  similar  question  was  going  the  rounds  of  the  religious 
magazines.  Thus:  "How  do  you  expect  to  spend  eternity?"  This 
question  caused  quite  a  discussion.  One  reverend  .gentleman  answered 
it  in  these  words:  "How  do  I  expect  to  spend  eternity?  I  expect  to 
spend  the  first  million  years  gazing  upon  the  face  of  the  Savior.  And 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


then,"  he  added,  somewhat  facetiously,  "I  might  take  a  sidelong  glance 
at  my  wife." 

Poor  lone  woman,  waiting  a  million  years  for  that  sidelong  glance ! 
Is  it  not  plain  that  her  loving  husband  did  not  know  how  to  answer 
the  question?  If  he  had  known  he  would  have  told,  and  made  himself 
famous;  but.  he  did  not  know,  and  so  passed  it  off  as  a  joke.  But  it 
is  no  joke,  this  problem  of  life  and  death  and  resurrection  and  the 
hereafter.    It  is  a  solemn  and  sublime  reality. 

But  assuming  that  he  was  serious  and  really  meant  what  he  said, 
let  us  consider  for  a  moment  the  gentleman's  reply.  Does  any  sane 
man  or  woman  believe  that  an  all-wise  God  would  create  an  earth  like 
this,  and  place  his  children  upon  it  to  become  expert  and  skillful  as 
farmers,  as  artisans,  as  engineers,  bankers,  merchants  or  what  not,  and 
then  whisk  them  away  to  some  distant  part  of  the  universe,  some  world 
"beyond  the  bounds  of  time  and  space,"  where  they  would  sit  down 
and  twiddle  their  thumbs  and  stare  somebody  out  of  countenance  for 
a  million  years?    Is  it  reasonable?    Is  it  sensible? 

A  MORMON  REPLY 

How  would  a  Latter-day  Saint  answer  such  a  question?  One  who 
understands  his  religion — an  intelligent,  thoughtful  Latter-day  Saint, 
if  asked :  "How  do  you  expect  to  spend  eternity,"  would  be  very  apt 
to  reply :  "I  expect  to  spend  it  in  doing  there  the  things  I  have  learnecK 
to  do  here."  That  is  common  sense.  It  is  logical,  economical.  Else 
were  this  all  wasted  time.  No,  we  are  not  going  to  sit  down  through 
all  eternity  and  gaze  upon  the  face  of  the  'Savior.  I  don't  believe  he 
would  want  anyone  to  look  at  him  that  long.  It  would  be  bad  manners. 
We  shall  do  in  eternity  the  things  we  have  learned  to  do  in  time,  but  we 
will  do  them  better  there  than  here.  We  will  be  better  fathers  and 
mothers,  better  husbands  and  wives,  better  in  every  way;  and  every 
faculty  exercised  and  developed  here,  will  find  full  play  and  employ- 
ment in  the  Great  Hereafter. 

I  do  not  mean  to  say  that  the  farmer  will  have  to  plow  and  sow, 
in  heaven  as  he  does  on  earth,  in  order  to  produce  a  harvest ;  nor  that 
the  good  housewife  will  have  to  cook  pancakes  on  a  red-hot  stove. 
But  I  do  say  that  all  the  occupations  of  this  life  that  are  proper  and 
legitimate  are  typical  of  and  lead  up  to  and  prepare  us  for  the  higher 
occupations  of  the  life  to  come.  We  will  do  there  the  things  we  have 
learned  to  do  here,  but  we  will  do  them  in  higher  and  better  ways.  For 
instance,  when  man  wants  light,  he  strikes  a  match  or  presses  a  button, 
or  turns  a  switch,  and  lo  there  is  light.  When  God  wants  light  he 
says :  "Let  there  be  light !"  and  there  is  light.  Nay,  God  himself  is 
Light,  and  would  need  but  to  appear  and  all  darkness  would  flee  away. 

Nor  is  there  anything  contrary  to  law  in  all  this.  God  works  by 
law.  But  there  are  greater  laws  and  lesser  laws,  and  sometimes  the 
greater  suspend  the  action  of  the  lesser.  Miracles  are  not  contrary  to 
law ;  they  are  simply  extraordinary  results  flowing  from  superior  means 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


65 


and  methods  of  doing  things.  When  Elisha  the  Prophet  raised  the 
sunken  ax  from  the  bottom  of  the  Jordan  River,  he  might  have  done 
it  in  a  commonplace  way — might  have  laid  aside  his  robes,  taken  off 
his  sandals,  and  plunged  in  like  a  diver  and  brought  the  ax  to  the 
surface.  But  he  knew  a  better  way.  Plucking  a  sprig  of  green  from, 
a  bush  growing  on  the  bank  of  the  river,  he  cast  it  upon  the  water  and 
commanded  the  ax  to  float.  "And  the  iron  did  swim,"  says  the  sacred 
record.  I  believe  it.  The  prophet's  act  was  not  contrary  to  law,  but 
in  accordance  with  law,  a  higher  law  than  the  law  of  gravitation  which, 
had  not  its  operation  on  that  piece  of  iron  been  suspended,  would  have 
kept  the  ax  at  the  bottom  of  the  stream  until  raised  by  some  other 
process. 

In  conclusion.  The  Gospel  explains  all  such  problems,  and  will 
solve  for  us  in  due  season  all  mysteries.  We  know  some  things  now. 
We  know  where  and  how  we  will  spend  eternity.  Revelation  has  made 
it  clear,  and  good  old  Dr.  Watts,  author  of  the  hymn,  "Sweet  is  the 
Work,  my  God,  my  King,"  had  a  glinting  of  light  upon  this  great 
subject  when  he  wrote  concerning  the  Hereafter : 

"Then  shall  I  see  and  hear  and  know 
All  I  desired  and  wished  below, 
And  every  power  find  sweet  employ 
In  that  eternal  world  of  joy." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  have  received  a  telegram  from  President  L.  G.  Kirkman  of  the 
Twin  Falls  Stake,  reading  as  follows : 

"Regret  I  cannot  attend  conference  Friday  morning.  Services 
could  be  heard  very  plainly  over  the  radio.  Afternoon  services  could 
not  be  heard  so  well." 

I  have  received  a  telegram  from  President  Richard  C.  May  of 
the  Minidoka  Stake,  which  says : 

"We  have  enjoyed  today's  conference  services.    Reception  good." 

President  Joseph  W.  McMurrin  has  a  very  sick  wife,  which 
accounts  for  his  absence  from  this  conference. 

President  J.  Golden  Kimball  is  confined  to  his  home,  suffering 
from  a  very  severe  cold. 

As  you  all  know,  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  is  presiding  over  the 
European  Mission. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  let  us  anew." 
Elder  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  offered  the  closing  prayer. 
The  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  President  Grant 
opening  the  meeting  by  announcing  that  the  congregation  would  sing 
the  hymn,  "How  firm  a  foundation." 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  William  T.  Jack,  President 
of  the  Cassia  stake. 

Jessie  and  Charlie  Williams  sang  a  duet,  "Proud?  Yes,  of  our 
home  in  the  mountains." 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

This,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  regard  as  a  tremendous  responsi- 
bility as  well  as  a  wonderful  opportunity.  As  I  have  anticipated  this  call 
and  have  meditated  on  what  I  might  say  that  would  be  proper,  my 
mind  at  times  has  been  illumined  by  the  Spirit,  to  see  and  feel  the  truth 
of  this  work  in  a  way  that  if  presented  in  the  same  light  to  others  might 
be  profitable;  and  then  the  vision  of  these  things  would  in  a  measure 
fade  away.  By  this  I  have  been  made  to  realize  my  dependence  upon 
the  Lord  on  such  occasions. 

I  realize  that  it  is  quite  possible  for  those  of  superior  minds  to 
profit  more  by  the  thoughts  which  may  arise  in  their  minds  as  a  result 
of  what  is  said  by  the  speaker  than  from  just  what  is  said.  The  mind 
goes  out  farther  and  brings  in  material  relative  to  the  same  subject 
and  is  edified  thereby.  I  hope  that  all  my  hearers  may,  by  the  aid  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  enlarge  upon  that  which  I  may  say  and  that  to  their 
profit.  I  also  realize  that  it  is  impossible  for  me  to  make  you  feel  what 
I  do  not  feel  myself.  It  is  my  desire  at  this  time  by  my  remarks  to 
cause  you  to  see  and  feel  the  beauty  and  the  truth  of  this  great  latter- 
day  work. 

THE  NEED  OF  REVELATION 

The  world  had  no  greater  need  than  that  of  the  revelation  given 
through  a  fourteen-year-old  boy  in  the  Spring  of  1820,  a  revelation 
of  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  At  that  time 
spiritual  darkness  covered  the  earth  and  gross  darkness  the  minds  of 
the  people ;  and  that  deplorable  condition  continues,  except  where  people 
have  accepted  what  was  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
We  have  but  to  refer  to  the  creeds  of  the  different  denominations  to 
be  convinced  of  this  fact.  I  would  refer  you  to  the  "Confession  of 
Faith"  of  the  Presbyterian  Church,  which  church  has  a  following,  I 
presume,  of  millions  of  people;  and  these  members  of  the  church  have 
by  their  membership  subscribed  to  the  things  which  are  written  in  the 
"Confession  of  Faith"  as  follows: 

"In  the  unity  of  the  Godhead  there  be  three  persons  of  one  substance,  power 
and  eternity,  God  the  Father,  God  the  Son,  God  the  Holy  Ghost." 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


67 


Quoting  from  "Shorter  Catechism,"  I  read  this: 

"There  are  three  persons  in  the  Godhead,  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy 
Ghost;  and  these  three  are  one  God,  the  same  in  substance,  equal  in  power  and 
glory." 

The  question  is  asked  in  the  Catechism:  "Are  there  more  Gods 
than  one?"  j  And  the  answer  is:  "There  is  but  one  only,  the  living 
and  true  God. 

"We  must  not  conceive  of  him  as  being  like,  in  form,  any  thing 
in  either  heaven  or  earth." 

Those  who  wrote  this  part  of  the  creed  of  the  Presbyterian  Church 
did  not  know  God  the  Eternal  Father,  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost,  as  they  are.  The  world  at  that  time  was  in  need  of  new 
revelation  of  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 

We  have  also  in  the  first  Article  of  Religion  of  the  great  Anglican 
Church,  the  headquarters  of  which  are  found  in  Great  Britain,  which 
church  also  has  a  following  of  many  millions  of  people  subscribing  to  a 
creed,  a  professed  belief,  very  similar  to  that  which  I  have  read.  It 
is  as  follows : 

"There  is  one  living  and  true  God  everlasting,  without  body,  parts  or 
passions,  of  infinite  wisdom,  power  and  goodness ;  the  maker  and  preserver  of  all 
things  visible  and  invisible,  and  in  the  unity  of  this  Godhead  there  are  three 
personages  of  one  substance,  power  and  eternity,  the  Father,  the  Son  and  the 
Holy  Ghost." 

Coming  down  to  a  later  date,  let  me  read  you  what  the  Bishop  of 
Liverpool  of  that  Anglican  Church  had  to  say  about  conditions.  This 
was  on  March  21st,  1912,  as  reported  in  the  Lancashire  Daily  Post,  and 
is  as  follows : 

"The  Bishop  of  Liverpool  performed  the  consecration  ceremony  at  Holy 
Trinity  Church,  Southport,  yesterday.  In  his  sermon  he  said;  one  of  the  great 
needs  of  the  Christian  Church  was  power.  They  were  living  in  an  age  of  great 
material  power ;  they  had  covered  the  land  with  new  and  restored  churches ; 
they  had  spent  great  sums  of  money  on  colleges  and  ecclesiastical  buildings ; 
they  had  improved  and  enriched  their  services;  they  had  planted  new  -missions 
in  foreign  lands,  and  their  settlements  in  all  the  great  towns.  Religion  today 
was  wearing  silver  slippers,  and  moving  in  high  places,  and  yet  he  ventured 
to  think,  there  was  a  strange  want  of  power  about  the  Church  of  God,  not  only 
in  their  branch,  but  about  every  other  branch. 

"The  Church  at  present  seemed  almost  overmatched  by  the  power  of 
darkness.  Sometimes  it  seemed  as  if  the  darkness  was  gaining  on  the  light. 
What  was  the  cause  of  the  strange  paralysis  that  had  befallen  the  Church?" 

An  admission  that  a  paralysis  had  befallen  the  Church : 

"He  believed  that  the  Church  needed  today  a  re-discoveryi  of  God ;  he 
believed  the  Church  was  weak  today  because  God  was  so  distant,  so  unreal, 
so  dimly  seen.  Today  they  saw  the  results  of  that  dim  vision  of  the  distant 
God.  They  saw  on  all  sides  unsettlement  in  the  faith,  slackness  in  the  spiritual 
life,  men  losing  their  grip  on  those  great  and  vital  truths  which  had  made 
Christendom  what  it  was,  refusing  to  face  the  spectre  of  the  mind,  content  to 
drift  and  to  leave  things  in  suspense,  and  this  weak  unworthy  spirit  was  be- 
ginning to  affect  our  whole  national  life." 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  is  an  admission  of  the  importance  of  having  a  correct  under- 
standing or  conception  of  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  of  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ.  The  world  I  say  was  in  need  of  the  revelation  that  came  from 
heaven  through  a  fourteen-year-old  boy  in  1820,  as  well  as  all  the  other 
revelations  that  were  given  subsequently  to  that  same  individual,  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  This  was  a  wonderful  revelation,  the  vision 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph,  wherein  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to 
him,  and  the  Father,  speaking  to  him,  introduced  his  Son,  who  an- 
swered his  questions  satisfactorily.  He  saw  that  God  the  Eternal 
Father  is  a  personage,  having  body  and  parts  like  unto  man,  or  in 
other  words  that  man  is  really  and  actually  in  his  image  and  likeness, 
but  that  God  is  an  immortal  being,  a  glorified  and  exalted  being,  and 
that  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  is  like  him.  There  was  no  removing  this 
testimony  from  the  mind  of  Joseph  Smith,  although  it  came  to  him  as 
a  mere  boy. 

"a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder" 

We  read  in  Isaiah,  29th  chapter,  a  prediction  of  the  coming  forth 
of  this  great  work.  The  Lord  speaks  to  his  servant  Isaiah,  saying: 
(If  you  read  the  context  you  must  be  convinced  that  it  refers  to  this 
particular  time  when  the  gospel  is  restored. ) 

"Forasmuch  as  this  people  draw  near  me  with  their  mouth,  and  with  their 
lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  removed  their  heart  far  from  me,  and  their  fear 
toward  me  is  taught  by  the  precept  of  men : 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  among  this 
people,  even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder :  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise  men 
shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid." 

This  one  revelation — the  vision  of  the  boy  Joseph — marked  a 
fulfilment  of  this  prediction.  As  we  see  the  Church  as  a  whole  today, 
the  wonderful  effective  work  of  this  organization  with  the  gospel  and 
its  principles  and  ordinances,  scriptural  appealing  and  true,  we  are  led 
to  the  conclusion  without  a  doubt  that  it  is  "a  marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder." 

Men  and  women  outside  of  this  Church  have  been  able  to  see  this 
and  they  have  wondered  at  it.  The  thing  that  is  a  wonderment  to  me 
is  that  when  they  have  given  this  consideration  to  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  the  gospel  which  we  have  received 
and  which  we  are  teaching  to  the  world  and  have  done  for  more  than 
a  century,  and  which  we  are  trying  to  live,  that  they  should  consider 
it  the  product  of  the  mind  of  man  and  not  give  God  the  glory.  It  is 
a  wonderment  to  me  that  the  Bishop  of  Liverpool,  after  nearly  b, 
century  had  elapsed  after  God  had  given  this  great  vision  and  revela- 
tion to  the  world,  should  not  be  able  to  see  the  truth,  to  understand  the 
light  that  has  come  unto  us.  as  many,  many  others  are  not  able  to 
see  and  understand. 

appreciative  of  light  and  knowledge 
And  this  makes  me  individually  appreciative  that  I  have  been  able 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


69 


to  see  the  light  and  that  I  have  received  the  light,  that  I  do  not  only 
believe  in  God  the  Eternal  Father  as  a  personal,  an  exalted  and 
glorified  being,  but  that  I  do  know  that  he  lives  and  that  he  is  the 
God  of  this  world,  the  very  eternal  Father  of  the  spirits  of  all  men, 
and  that  Jesus  Christ,  who  was  with  him  in  the  appearance  to  Joseph 
Smith,  is  the  firstborn  of  the  Father  in  the  spirit,  the  Only  Begotten 
of  the  Father  in  the  flesh,  the  Savior  and  Redeemer  of  mankind. 

We  as  a  people,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  should  rejoice  in  this 
light  and  knowledge  that  has  come  unto  us  and  the  testimony  our 
Heavenly  Father  has  given  us  concerning  these  things. 

CHOSEN  BEFORE  BIRTH  FOR  SPECIAL  MISSION 

Joseph  Smith  was  chosen,  as  we  believe,  from  before  he  was  born 
for  a  special  mission,  the  ushering  in  of  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness 
of  times.  We  read  in  the  third  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Abraham  that 
the  Lord  showed  to  his  servant  Abraham  intelligences,  the  spirits  of 
men.  He  told  Abraham  that  they  were  among  his  noble  ones  whom 
he  had  chosen  to  be  his  rulers ;  and  said  he,  "Thou,  Abraham,  art  one 
of  them."  They  were  to  be  rulers  in  the  sense  that  Abraham  was  a 
ruler  in  his  day,  a  servant  of  God  and  of  the  people.  It  is  just  as  easy 
to  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was  one  of  those  noble  spirits,  that  he 
was  reserved  of  the  Lord  to  come  forth  in  this  last  day,  to  be  used  as 
a  mouthpiece  of  the  Lord,  his  prophet,  in  the  establishment  of  his 
Church  and  Kingdom  anew  upon  the  earth,  and  the  restoration  of  the 
everlasting  gospel.    So  we  Latter-day  Saints  believe  and  so  we  testify. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  do 
know  of  the  truth  of  this  work.  It  is  God's  work.  It  is  his  plan 
instituted  in  heaven  from  before  the  foundation  of  the  world,  the  only 
plan  that  God  has  instituted,  the  only  plan  that  has  in  it  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation  unto  those  who  obey.  I  pray  God  that  he  may 
help  us,  for  we  need  his  help  on  every  hand,  that  we  who  have  em- 
braced the  gospel  may  remain  true  and  faithful. 

SERVE  THE  LORD 

We  heard  yesterday  a  message,  an  impressive  message,  in  three 
words :  "Hold  the  faith,"  and  that  reminded  me  of  what  I  heard  just 
a  few  days  ago  in  attending  a  conference  at  Ogden.  A  little  story 
of  a  cobbler  who  was  asked  what  his  business  was.  He  answered, 
"My  business  is  to  serve  God.   I  mend  shoes  for  a  living." 

Serve  the  Lord !  A  three  word  message  worthy  of  our  remem- 
bering ;  and  if  I  were  to  add  another  three  word  message,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  it  would  be  this:  Live  your  religion.  And  I  will  make 
this  promise,  that  if  we  do  live  our  religion  it  will  mean  for  us  joy  and 
happiness  in  this  life  and  eternal  life  and  exaltation  in  the  world  to 
come.  I  bear  you  my  testmony  to  this  end  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

"The  Glory  of  God  is  Intelligence."  These  words  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  have  been  adopted  as  the  motto  of  the  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Associations.  I  desire  to  apply  these  words  to  two  of  the  world's 
great  educational  movements. 

EDUCATION,  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN 

Why  did  people  of  olden  times  know  so  much  about  eclipses,  the 
stars,  their  distances  and  their  orbits?  Why  were  they  so  intensely 
interested  in  these  and  other  technical  mathematical  problems  before 
they  knew  how  to  build  a  wagon  wheel?  The  reason  is  that  in  those 
days  the  people  were  divided  into  two  classes,  aristocrats  and  slaves. 

As  soon  as  education  was  given  to  those  who  had  to  toil,  as  well 
as  to  those  who  were  aristocrats,  this  marvelous  mechanical  age  in 
which  we  live  had  its  beginning.  Toilers  with  trained  minds  found 
little  interest  in  astronomy.  What  did  they  care  about  eclipses?  They 
were  not  concerned  with  theoretical  mathematical  problems,  but  with 
devising  methods  of  lightening  the  burdens  that  were  resting  upon  their 
backs.  As  a  result  of  this  change  in  the  application  of  learning,  we 
live  today  in  an  age  of  scientific  miracles,  which  the  mental  efforts 
of  these  toilers  have  made  possible.  Today  machinery  can  do  almost 
anything.  One  of  the  latest  achievements  is  the  flight  of  Lindbergh 
from  New  York  to  Paris. 

In  1880,  when  Louis  Pasteur,  a  French  scientist,  a  French  toiler, 
who  had  arisen  from  poverty,  put  forth  the  mental  effort  necessary  to 
discover  the  relation  that  exists  between  disease  and  disease  germs,  he 
gave  to  mankind  the  greatest  human-welfare  contribution  of  all  time, 
arising  from  scientific  investigation. 

SCIENCE  APPLIED  TO  SANITATION 

I  have  returned  this  morning  from  the  city  of  Chicago.  The 
Sanitary  District  of  Chicago  includes  the  city  of  Chicago  and  fifty- 
nine  other  municipalities.  I  was  invited  by  the  district  officials  to 
inspect  and  make  a  report  on  their  recently  completed  North  Side 
Sewage  Treatment  Plant.  This  project  is  the  largest,  the  most  scientific, 
the  most  modern  institution  of  its  kind  in  the  world.  In  this  District 
there  are  3,500,000  people.  The  Sanitary  District  was  created  by  act 
of  the  legislature  of  the  State  of  Illinois  in  1889.  Its  purpose  is  the 
disposal  of  the  sewage  and  other  wastes  of  that  District.  The  special 
aim  was  and  is  to  avoid  contaminating  the  waters  of  Lake  Michigan — 
the  only  source  of  water  supply  for  the  city  of  Chicago  and  other 
municipalities  in  the  Sanitary  District. 

Back  in  1893,  when  the  World's  Fair  was  held  in  Chicago, 
engineers  from  every  country  looked  with  astonishment  and  admiration 
at  the  tremendous  undertaking  of  changing  the  direction  of  the  flow 
of  the  Chicago  River.  From  flowing  into  Lake  Michigan  it  was 
changed,  by  means  of  a  deep  cut,  to  flow  out  of  the  Lake  through  the 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


71 


city  of  Chicago,  into  the  Des  Plaines,  the  Illinois,  and  the  Mississippi 
rivers,  and  thence  into  the  Gulf  of  Mexico.  Thus,  through  this  canal, 
by  the  dilution  method,  the  most  modern  then  known,  they  had  their 
sewage  carried  into  the  Gulf. 

But  it  was  in  1895  that  the  first  great  modern  hydro-electric 
power  plant  was  constructed  at  Niagara  Falls.  This  brought  to  the 
water  of  the  Niagara  river  a  new  value,  and  at  once  the  power  interests 
began  to  raise  objections  to  the  diversion  of  the  water  from  Lake 
Michigan.  Led  by  these  power  interests,  cities  located  on  the  shores 
of  the  Great  Lakes  and  states  on  their  borders,  have  waged  a  long 
and  fierce  battle  against  this  diversion.  So  intense  have  been  these 
objections  that  leading  citizens  have  been  led  to  think  it  has  lowered 
the  water  surface  of  the  Great  Lakes,  to  the  serious  injury  of  shipping. 
In  fact  many  citizens  suppose  that  the  diversion  has  caused  most  of  the 
difficulties  of  commerce  on  the  Great  Lakes.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the 
water  taken  through  the  Chicago  drainage  canal  has  lowered  the  water 
surface  but  5  inches;  and  by  use  of  comparatively  simple  regulating 
works  constructed  at  the  outlets  of  the  Lakes,  fluctuations  of  level  can 
be  largely  prevented  and  the  water  surfaces  can  be  held  at  the  highest 
desirable  levels.  Such  works  will  protect  all  interests  involved,  greatly 
improve  harbor  conditions,  allow  water  for  power  to  be  used  more 
efficiently,  and  will  make  possible  the  restoration  and  perpetuation  of 
the  beauty  of  Niagara  Falls. 

THE  MODERN  OUTLOOK  OF  MEN 

In  this  modern  day,  when  the  men  who  labor  have  been  trained 
and  educated,  they  have  brought  and  they  are  bringing  their  minds 
to  bear  upon  problems  of  practical  value.  The  work  of  reverising  the 
flow  of  the  Chicago  river  was  hardly  completed  in  1900,  when  the 
officials  of  the  Sanitary  District  began,  by  experiment  and  by  use  of 
other  scientific  methods,  to'  devise  more  recent,  better,  and  more 
efficient  ways  of  treating  the  wastes  from  the  District  than  the  dilution 
method. 

The  purification  works  they  now  have  constructed,  and  those  for 
which  they  have  completely  designed  plans,  will  mean,  when  completed, 
an  investment  of  $300,000,000.  For  the  welfare  of  mankind,  not  on 
astronomy  or  on  theoretical  mathematics,  but  on  the  practical  things  of 
this  practical  age  of  miracles  the  District  has  already  expended  $182,- 
000,000.  Modern  works  like  these  are  coming  into  the  world  because 
we  are  educating  those  who  labor. 

FOR  PRESERVATION  OF  PUBLIC  HEALTH 

I  was  at  the  formal  opening  last  Wednesday  of  one  unit  of  the?c 
great  works.  This  unit  alone  has  cost  $32,000,000.  State  officials,  city 
officials,  and  eminent  sanitary  and  civil  engineers  of  the  whole  land 
were  in  attendance.  ■ 

Were  the  preservation  of  the  public  health  of  Chicago  a  local 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


problem  only,  I  would  not  here  refer  to  this  project.  But  since 
Chicago  is  a  center  through  which  practically  all  east-bound  and  west- 
bound traffic  of  our  country  passes,  all  citizens  may  be  affected  by  the 
health  conditions  of  this  Sanitary  District. 

For  the  purpose  of  establishing,  in  and  about  Chicago,  the  best 
possible  conditions  for  public  health,  a  veritable  army  of  civil,  electrical, 
and  sanitary  engineers  are  making  scientific  experiments  and  are  study- 
ing the  results  of  similar  investigations  wherever  they  are  being  per- 
formed. By  holding  this  extensive  organization  together  in  entire 
freedom  from  politics  or  other  prejudices,  qualified  men  are  given 
positions  and  are  retained  in  them  solely  because  of  their  merit.  This 
is  one  of  the  reasons  why  the  District  has  been  able  to  design,  con- 
struct, and  formally  to  open  the  North  Side  Sewage  Treatment  works. 
I  have  said  that  up  to  this  hour,  it  is  the  greatest  accomplishment 
of  its  kind  in  the  world,  for  the  promotion  and  preservation  of  public 
health. 

MAGNITUDE  OF  CHICAGO'S  WORKS 

It  has  been  charged  that  Chicago  was  not  putting  forth  reasonable 
efforts  to  purify  and  dispose  of  its  sewage  and  similar  wastes.  You  will 
be  interested  to  know  that  there  are  but  23  other  cities  in  the  United 
States  with  a  population  greater  than  100,000  which  have  sewage- 
disposal  plants.  All  of  these  23  combined  have  expended  in  this  line 
of  work  but  $149,000,000,  while  Chicago  has  expended  for  this  pur- 
pose $182,000,000;  that  is,  $33,000,000  more  than  have  all  these  other 
23  cities. 

The  citizens  of  Chicago  exhibit  a  real  American  spirit.  It  is 
the  same  spirit  that  actuated  our  soldiers  in  France.  It  is  said  that 
when  the  Germans  blew  out  a  bridge  at  night,  they  were  surprised  the 
next  morning  to  find  that  the  Americans  had  replaced  it  and  were 
across  the  river. 

RECENT  ELEVATION  OF  WOMAN 

That  is  the  fir!st  of  the  two  phases  of  the  historic  educational 
problem  that  I  desire  to  mention.    The  other  is  the  education  of  women. 

The  time  is  short,  even  today,  since  women  were  admitted  into 
educational  institutions ;  and  just  as  the  education,  in  years  past,  of 
those  who  had  to  toil,  has  transformed  the  world  into  this  marvelous 
scientific  age,  so  the  education  of  women  is  destined  to  produce  further 
marvelous  transformations  in  human  welfare. 

There  are  still  many  educational  institutions  that  do  not  believe 
in  co-education ;  that  is,  they  do  not  admit  women.  In  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  there  is  no  educational  opportunity 
provided  for  men  that  is  not  open  also  to  women.  Side  by  side  with 
the  women,  high  priests  and  patriarchs  do  their  studying  each  Sunday 
morning.  Young  men  preparing  to  go  into  the  mission  field  get  their 
training  alongside  of  young  women,  many  of  whom  are  also  being 
trained  for  missions.    You  heard  it  said  this  morning  by  one  of  our 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


73 


mission  presidents,  that  he  wants  us  to  send  more  young  women  into 
the  mission  field.  Thus  we  give  to  the  women  of  the  Church,  as  we 
have  always  done,  the  same  educational  opportunities  that  we  give 
to  men. 

A  GREAT  CHURCH  SCHOOL 

A  great  school,  to  which  women  are  freely  admitted,  has  been 
instituted  by  the  Church.  For  this  purpose  we  have  set  apart  the  best 
period  of  the  best  day — Sunday  morning  from  10  to  12  o'clock.  In 
this  school  we  teach  theology  to  all  the  people.  Side  by  side  in  this 
great  Church  school  men  and  women  listen  to  the  instruction.  Will  not 
this  equal  educational  opportunity  now  provided  for  women,  not  only  in 
the  Church  but  in  nearly  every  part  of  the  world,  yet  produce  another 
profound  change  in  the  welfare,  the  conduct,  and  the  development  of 
the  human  family? 

THIS  BOOK  OF  PUPIN's 

As  part  of  the  course  of  instruction,  our  Committee  on  Adult 
Recreation  has  recommended  for  our  reading  course  this  year  a  book 
entitled  From  Immigrant  to  Inventor,  written  by  Michael  Pupin.  This 
book  portrays  a  picture  and  cites  an  example  of  the  far-reaching  in- 
fluence that  a  mother  may  exert  upon  the  character  and  accomplish- 
ments of  her  son.  While  in  this  instance  the  mother  was  .not  versed 
in  the  learning  of  books,  she  nevertheless  had  the  wisdom  to  perceive 
the  value  of  education  and  the  gift  to  impress  upon  her  son  the  benefits 
that  come  from  a  trained  mind. 

At  the  age  of  fifteen  Michael  Pupin  came  to  the  United  States. 
Today  he  holds  the  chair  of  electro-mechanics  in  Columbia  University. 
The  long-distance  telephone  was  made  possible  by  his  inventions ;  the 
radio  is  due  largely  to  his  genius.  We  recommend  to  all  people  in  the 
Church  the  reading  of  this  book.  Those  who  have  read  it  appreciate 
the  strength  and  uplift  of  the  message  it  carries.  It  will  tell  you 
something  of  the  spirit  of  our  Mutual  Improvement  organizations.  It 
will  teach  you  to  value  in  the  lives  of  men  the  development  that  can 
come  to  them  from  women,  especially  the  training  that  can  come  from 
mothers. 

HOW  HIS  MOTHER  GUIDED  HIM 

Michael  Pupin  received  his  inspiration  from  a  mother  in  Serbia — ■ 
a  mother  who  was  not  able  to  read  or  write.  In  his  boyhood  he 
surmised  that  reading,  writing,  and  arithmetic  were  methods  of  torture 
that  had  been  devised  by  the  teacher  in  order  to  punish  students,  espe- 
cially boys  who  had  appointments  with  their  chums  and  playmates. 

"But,"  says  the  inventor,  "my  mother  soon  convinced  me  that 
I  was  wrong.  She  could  neither  read  nor  write ;  and  she  told  me  that 
she  always  felt  that  she  was  blind,  in  spite  of  the  clear  vision  of  her 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


eyes ;  so  blind,  indeed,  that,  as  she  expained,  she.  did  not  dare  to  venture 
into  the  world  much  beyond  the  confines  of  her  native  village." 

She  would  say  to  him :  "My  boy,  if  you  wish  to  go  out  into  the 
world,  about  which  you  hear  so  much,  you  must  provide  yourself  with 
another  pair  of  eyes;  the  eyes  of  reading  and  writing.  *  *  * 
Knowledge  is  the  golden  ladder  over  which  we  climb  to  heaven; 
knowledge  is  the  light  which  illuminates  our  path  through  this  life  and 
leads  to  a  future  life  of  everlasting  glory."  How  closely  these  words 
approach  the  words  of  the  prophet :   "The  Glory  of  God  is  Intelligence." 

INFLUENCE  OF  MOTHERS 

What  think  you  of  the  power  that  comes  into  the  life  of  a  boy 
who  has  the  right  kind  of  mother?  I  urge  all  the  people  in  the  Church, 
especially  those  who  are  and  those  who  expect  to  be  mothers,  to  study 
this  remarkable  book.  It  proves  how  powerful  is  the  influence  that 
a  mother  has  in  the  ambition,  in  the  success,  and  in  the  spiritual  values, 
in  the  life  of  a  man.  God  bless  the  mother  who  whispers  such  messages 
of  inspiration  into  the  soul  of  her  son.  She  might  have  said :  "My 
son,  if  you  live,  I  expect  to  see  you  realize  in  your  life  many  of  the 
ambitions  and  many  of  the  hopes  that  I  myself  have  not  been  able  to 
achieve."  So  changed  was  his  mind,  so  aroused  was  his  determination, 
that  in  a  short  time  he  had  the  delight  of  convincing  his  mother  that 
he  could  read  and  write  as  well  as  any  boy. 

Later,  when  the  teacher  had  observed  the  change  in  the  boy's  at- 
titude toward  study,  the  teacher  was  so  much  astonished  that  he 
fancied  a  miracle  had  occurred.  The  mother  told  the  teacher  that  in  a 
dream  she  saw  a  Saint  lay  his  hands  upon  the  head  of  her  son;  then 
the  Saint,  pointing  to  her,  said :  "Daughter,  your  boy  will  soon  outgrow 
the  village  school.  Let  him  go  out  into  the  world,  where  he  can  find 
more  brain  food  for  his  hungry  head."  She  told  this  to  the  teacher  in 
the  presence  of  her  son.  It  was  like  a  message  whispered  into  his 
ear.  It  brought  higher  ambitions  to  his  soul.  The  words  of  his 
mother  aroused  him  to  action. 

A  DECISIVE  STROKE 

Next  year  the  teacher  selected  this  boy  to  give  the  recitation  at 
their  annual  celebration.  The  teacher  wrote  the  speech.  While  the 
mother  was  not  able  to  read  or  write,  she  had  a  memory.  She  knew 
many  of  the  psalm's  and  took  delight  in  reciting  them.  She  amended 
and  amplified  the  speech  and  had  the  boy  rehearse  it  again  and  again. 
The  success  of  the  address,  Pupin  relates,  was  overwhelming.  His 
chums — unruly  boys — did  not  giggle;  they  looked  interested,  and  thus 
encouraged  the  speaker.  Pupin  writes:  "My  mother  cried  for  joy." 
Heaven  bless  the  mothers  who  cry  for  joy  at  the  successes  of  their 
sons.  In  the  great  training-school  of  the  Church,  where  theological 
work  on  Sunday  and  activity  work  on  Tuesday  night,  are  undertaken, 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


75 


we  have  a  course  of  training  that  continues  from  the  cradle  to  the 
grave.  We  trust  that,  under  divine  guidance,  this  training  will  prepare 
mothers  who  can  lead  their  sons  as  the  mother  of  Michael  Pupin 
led  him. 

He  had  heard  of  Lincoln  during  the  war.  His  mother  appealed  now 
for  him  to  be  sent  away  to  school — fifteen  miles  to  a  high  school. 

a  father's  doubts 

Notwithstanding  objections  raised  by  the  father,  the  mother  had 
her  way ;  and  the  son,  who  had  outgrown  the  country  school,  was  sent 
to  the  higher  educational  institution.  Here  the  boy  learned  of  Benja- 
min Franklin  and  of  electricity.  The  father  had  looked  upon  Franklin 
as  an  idle  boy  playing  with  a  kite,  and  was  indignant  when  the  boy 
intimated  that  this  American  might  possibly  be  wiser  than  the  wise 
men  of  their  country  village.  Womanlike,  the  mother  took  the  boy's 
side ;  and  soon  the  father  was  himself  convinced  that  wisdom  might  be 
found  in  America.  To  train  the  mothers  so  that  they  shall  exert  on 
the  lives  of  their  sons  the  same  fine  influence  and  awaken  the  same  stimu- 
lating ambition  that  swelled  the  heart  of  Michael  Pupin, — this  is  an 
aim  of  the  Church. 

THE  YOUTH'S  RESOLVE 

So  much  had  the  boy  heard  about  America,  that  he  sold  his  heavy 
coat,  his  books,  his  warm  clothing,  for  money  with  which  to  buy  his 
ticket  to  America ;  for  he  hoped  here  to  achieve  the  success  his  mother 
had  laid  out  for  him.  Leaving  his  school,  he  started  for  America 
without  returning  to  his  home.  A  letter  to  his  mother,  in  affectionate 
terms  said  that,  having  outgrown  the  school  and  the  teachers,  he  had 
departed  for  the  land  of  Franklin  and  Lincoln.  He  assured  her  that 
"with  her  blessing  and  God's  help"  he  would  certainly  succeed.  He 
promised  that  he  would  return  rich  in  rare  knowledge  and  in  honor. 
The  story  is  thrilling.  Will  you  read  it  ?  No  woman  can  do  so  with- 
out receiving  new  inspiration,  the  kind  of  inspiration  that  we  are  aiming 
to  give  to  all  the  women  of  the  Church. 

And  so  he  sold  his  clothing  and  his  coat,  got  his  fare,  and  started 
for  America.  He  did  not  know  that  he  would  have  to  provide  his  own 
mattress  and  blanket;  therefore  he  almost  perished.  He  said  he  had 
seen  pictures  of  the  American  Indians.  They  did  not  seem  to  have 
much  clothing.  He  sat  by  the  smoke-stack  during  the  night  to  keep 
from  freezing.  He  landed  in  America  at  the  age  of  fifteen,  and  no 
human  soul  was  here  that  he  had  ever  seen.  When  by  an  interpreter 
he  was  asked:  "Don't  you  know  somebody  in  America?"  he  answered 
that  he  had  no  relatives  here  and  knew  of  nobody  in  the  country  but 
Franklin,  Lincoln,  and  Harriett  Beecher  Stowe.  The  emigration  agent 
at  Castle  Gardens  said:  "You  showed  good  taste  when  you  picked 
your  American  acquaintances." 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


pupin's  search  for  "light" 

During  all  of  his  early  days  as  a  student  and  many  of  his  years 
an  an  investigator,  Michael  Pupin  went  from  library  to  library,  from 
school  to  school,  yes,  even  from  country  to  country,  endeavoring  to 
find  an  answer  to  the  question:  "What  is  Light?"  It  was  his  life- 
long search  for  an  answer  to  this  question  that  gave  him  the  power 
of  concentration,  and  laid  the  foundation  for  his  later  inventions. 
He  was  searching  for  Light — the  light  that  illuminates  the  uni- 
verse, the  true  nature  of  which  men  did  not  understand.  His  question 
stirs  in  me  a  desire  to  know  what  light  in  a  spiritual  sense  truly  is. 
John,  the  beloved  Apostle,  says  that  Jesus  "was  the  true  Light,  which 
lighteth  every  man  that  cometh  into  the  world.  He  was  in  the  world 
and  the  world  was  made  by  him,  yet  the  world  knew  him  not."  (John 
1:9,  10.)  The  prayerful  life  of  righteous  living  apparently  brings  into 
human  hearts  a  something  we  refer  to  as  a  testimany — a  satisfying 
feeling  that  enables  one  to  speak  as  did  Job  when  he  said,  "I  know 
that  my  Redeemer  liveth." 

CAN  PSYCHOLOGISTS  EXPLAIN:? 

I  am  looking  for  some  psychologist  or  some  other  student  of 
human  nature  who  can  explain  how  it  is  and  why  it  is  that  this  prayer- 
ful life  of  righteous  living  specified  by  our  Lord  and  Savior  brings  this 
satisfying  knowledge  into  human  hearts, — knowledge  which  hearts  can 
feel  and  souls  can  know,  but  rarely  can  explain.  It  is  a  seemingly 
unexplainable  conviction,  which  those  who  have  not  gone  through  this 
religious  experience,  have  difficulty  in  understanding.  Satisfied  with 
the  conviction  that  comes  as  a  result  of  living  in  accordance  with  the 
teachings  and  example  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  the 
human  soul  rises  to  such  a  height  of  feeling  that  there  is  hardly  any 
sacrifice  in  time,  money,  or  effort,  which  those  genuinely  converted 
will  not  undergo  for  the  advancement  of  the  cause.  I  ask,  "What  is 
this  light,  which  prayerful,  righteous  living  brings  into  human  hearts  ?" 

THE  REVELATION  ON  LIGHT 

The  language  of  a  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
in  Section  88  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  beginning  with  the  6th 
verse,  refers  to  Jesus  Christ  the  Son  of  God  as  "The  Light  of  Truth; 
which  truth  shineth.  This  is  the  light  of  Christ.  As  also  he  is  in  the  sun, 
and  the  light  of  the  sun,  and  the  power  thereof  by  which  it  was  made. 

"As  also  he  is  in  the  moon,  and  is  in  the  light  of  the  moon,  and  the  power 
thereof  by  which  it  was  made ; 

"As  also  the  light  of  the  stars,  and  the  power  thereof  by  which  they  were 
made ; 

"And  the  earth  also,  and  the  power  thereof,  even  the  earth  upon  which 
you  stand. 

"And  the  light  which  shineth,  which  giveth  you  light,  is  through  him  .  who 


ELDLER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


77 


enlighteneth  your  eyes,  which  is  the  same  light  that  quickeneth  your  under- 
standings ; 

"Which  light  proceedeth  forth  from  the  presence  of  God  to  fill  the 
immensity  of  space — 

"The  light  which  is  in  all  things,  which  giveth  life  to  all  things,  which  is 
the  law  by  which  all  things  are  governed,  even  the  power  of  God  who  sitteth 
upon  his  throne,  who  is  in  the  bosom  of  eternity,  who  is  in  the  midst  of  all 
things." 

SCIENCE  CORROBORATES  REVEALED  TRUTH 

Just  as  the  physical  light  of  the  sun  illuminates  the  globe  and  all 
the  dark  planets  ;  and  just  as  this  light  and  its  lesser  form  heat  are  neces- 
sary physical  conditions  of  all  animate  life  of  the  globe,  all  animal 
and  vegetable  life  being  dependent  upon  the  heat  from  the.  sun,  so  the 
inner  light,  the  light  of  the  spirit,  the  illumination  that  comes  to  the 
dark  souls  of  men,  is  derived  from  One  who  is  the  true  Light  which 
lighteth  every  man  that  comes  into  the  world.  The  spirit  and  testimony 
of  Jesus  is  the  light  of  the  soul — the  light  of  the  world.  This  true 
Light  was  in  the  world,  and  the  world  was  made  by  him ;  yet  the  world 
knew  him  not  till  he  revealed  himself  to  those  who  were  able  to  under- 
stand him  and  know  who  he  is.  So  the  physical  light  which,  in  another 
sense,  is  the  life  of  animate  nature  on  the  globe,  was  in  the  world  and 
the  world  of  life  was  made  or  sustained  by  it,  yet  men  do  not  now,  even 
the  most  learned,  understand  its  exact  nature. 

I  probably  cannot  give  to  the  question,  "What  is  Light?"  an  answer 
that  would  satisfy  the  scientific  intellect  of  Michael  Pupin.  Nor  have 
I  been  able  to  find  anyone  who  can  answer  the  question,  "What  is  the 
light  that  comes  into  human  hearts  as  a  result  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ?" 

Do  the  words  of  the  Prophet,  above  quoted,  answer  these  queries  ? 
Is  Jesus  Christ  "The  light  of  truth,"  the  source  of  all  the  light  of 
which  I  am  speaking? 

READ  THE  BOOK 

Mutual  Improvement  Organizations  recommend  to  the  Church  a 
reading  course.  This  Pupin  book,  From  Immigrant  to  Inventor,  is  one 
of  the  books  recommended.  Read  it,  I  pray  you.  Study  it;  for  the 
book  impresses  me  as  being  filled  with  the  gospel  spirit.  You  women 
are  to  train  up  a  generation  of  strong,  noble,  and  Christian  men,  are 
destined  to  produce  a  generation  of  women  who  can  teach  the  gospel 
to  all  the  people  in  all  the  world — a  preparation  for  the  coming  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  This  great  educational  institution  that 
the  Church  has  established  for  men  and  women,  for  old  and  young, 
will  help  to  prepare  for  this  great  work.  May  we  succeed  in  it;  and 
may  we  have  the  power,  the  influence,  and  the  testimony,  that  "to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  people"  (Rev.  14:6)  we  may 
effectively  preach  this  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  it  has  been  restored 
here  and  now  by  the  power  of  God. 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

Elder  McKay  referred  to  an  admonition  given  by  the  Apostle  Paul 
to  his  son,  in  the  faith,  Timothy.  That  message  was  to  hold  the  faith. 
While  he  was  giving  expression  and  explanation  of  that  glorious 
message,  I  thought  of  another  message  which  the  same  apostle  sent  to 
that  same  valiant  servant  of  the  Lord,  Timothy.  I  presume  that  he 
felt  a  fatherly  interest  in  Timothy  and  probably  noted  that  even  that 
valiant  servant  of  God  had  become  somewhat  derelict  in  the  observance 
of  his  duty;  and  so  he  admonished  him  to  "stir  up  the  gift  of  God, 
which  is  in  thee  by  the  putting  on  of  my  hands."  And  I  thought 
that  if  we  or  any  of  us  are  to  hold  and  keep  the  faith  the  means 
by  which  it  can  be  done  is  to  stir  up  within  us  that  glorious  gift  which 
we  have  received  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  of  the  elders  of  this  Church. 
I  refer  to  that  priceless  gift,  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

There  is  an  absolute  necessity  on  the  part  of  Latter-day  Saints,  if 
they  are  to  grow  in  a  knowledge  of  God  and  in  good  works,  day  by 
day,  that  they  have  the  help  of  their  Heavenly  Father,  which  he  is  more 
than  willing  to  bestow  upon  them  by  transmitting  or  giving  to  them 
this  wonderful  and  priceless  gift,  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  is  a  privilege 
that  we  have,  a  promise  that  has  been  made  unto  all  of  our  Father's 
children  who  will  comply  with  the  necessary  conditions,  that  they  may 
have  the  benefit  of  that  great  and  wonderful  gift.  Those  conditions 
are  in  the  first  place:  Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  He  is  the 
one  who  was  chosen  of  God  to  be  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  "God 
so  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  that  whoso- 
ever believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life." 
Therefore,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  exercise  of  this  faith  we 
must  turn  to  God. 

How  are  we  to  maintain  and  to  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost? 
That  was  very  clearly  pointed  out  by  the  great  apostle,  Peter,  in  his 
sermon  on  the  day  of  Pentecost: 

"Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  for 
the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your  children,  and  to  all  that  are 
afar  off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call." 

So  this  gift,  wonderful  and  precious  though  it  is,  may  be  realized 
and  enjoyed  by  all  the  children  of  God  to  whom  this  call  may  come. 
Missionaries  are  sent  out  all  over  the  world  to  make  the  call  unto  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth  to  comply  with  those  conditions  that  will  en- 
able them  to  receive  the  wonderful  gift  by  which  alone  they  may  know 
the  things  of  God,  that  they  may  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  him  whom 
to  know  is  life  eternal. 

President  Grant,  in  his  opening  address,  quoted  from  the  Book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  some  very  precious  words.  I  am  going  to 
repeat  two  paragraphs  from  Section  121,  which  he  quoted : 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


79 


"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the  household 
of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly;  then  shall  thy  con- 
fidence wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God;  and  the  doctrine  of  the  priesthood 
shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an  un- 
changing scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth ;  and  thy  dominion  shall  be  an  ever- 
lasting dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto  thee  forever 
and  ever." 

We  have  no  doubt  read  those  wonderful  paragraphs  time  and 
time  again,  and  sometimes  we  are  disposed  to  say  that  they  are  very 
beautiful  words.  That  is  a  literary  gem,  although  it  may  not  in  all 
particulars  comply  with  all  the  rules  of  rhetoric ;  yet  to  me  it  is  one  of 
the  great  literary  gems.  Nothing  more  beautiful  can  be  found  in  holy 
writ.   But  it  is  much  more  than  that — more  than  a  literary  gem. 

Here  we  have,  it  seems  to  me,  a  wonderful  exposition  of  how  to 
retain  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  have  the  knowledge  of  the  truth, 
to  keep  the  faith.  There  are  two  things  that  are  stated  in  those 
paragraphs  which  are  essential  and  upon  which  are  predicated  the 
most  wonderful  blessings  that  we  can  possibly  conceive  of.  What  are 
they? 

First :  "Let  thy  bowels  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men."  Well, 
that  is  a  great  commandment,  the  one  that  is  like  unto  the  first,  which 
is  to  "love  thy  neighbor  as  thy  self."  It  is  to  let  your  hearts  go  out, 
and  especially  to  the  household  of  faith,  in  love,  sympathy  and  charity 
unfeigned,  to  all  men. 

And  second:  "Let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly."  If 
we  would  garnish  our  thoughts  with  virtue  unceasingly  there  would 
be  no  room  for  sin.  We  need  not  concern  ourselves  so  much  as  to  what 
we  may  do,  every  act  for  which  we  are  responsible  is  preceded  by  our 
thoughts,  and  if  those  thoughts  are  pure  and  holy,  if  they  be  garnished 
with  virtue,  the  act  will  correspond,  and  we  will  not  wander  into  bye 
nor  forbidden  paths.  We  will  not  go  to  the  right  nor  to  the  left;  we 
will  not  fall  into  sin  and  iniquity,  but  we  will  walk  in  the  straight  and 
narrow  path  that  leadeth  unto  life  eternal.  These  two  things  will  bring 
salvation  to  our  souls;  for  we  read  that  if  we  do  them:  "Then  shall 
our  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God."  That  means  faith ; 
that  means  that  we  will  hold  the  faith  and  it  will  grow  strong.  We 
shall  ask  and  receive,  we  shall  seek  and  find,  we  shall  knock  and  the 
door  will  be  opened  unto  us.  What  a  wonderful  faith  we  may  have 
if  we  will  comply  with  those  two  conditions. 

And  then  we  read  further :  "And  the  doctrine  of  the  priesthood," — 
and  that  is  the  power  of  God — "shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews 
from  heaven."  Not  with  any  great  bombasting,  not  with  any  great 
manifestation,  but  just  quietly  and  without  any  assuming,  as  the  dews 
fall  from  heaven.  What  a  glorious  promise  that  is,  to  be  able  to 
exercise  the  powers  of  the  priesthood  to  which  that  same  section  refers 
so  very  greatly,  and  to  exercise  them  in  love  unfeigned  and  in  long- 
suffering  and  in  patience.  What  a  glorious  thing  it  is  if  we  can  exercise 
those  powers  of  the  priesthood.    Yet  if  we  will  do  these  two  things, 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


this  doctrine  shall  distil  upon  our  souls  and  shall  fill  our  whole  being 
from  the  crowns  of  our  heads  to  the  soles  of  our  feet. 

And  then  we  read  on  further :  "And  the  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy 
constant  companion."  Latter-day  Saints,  we  know  how  we  received 
that  wonderful  gift.  It  is  essential  for  all  mankind  to  receive  it,  and 
the  promise  has  been  given  to  them  all  if  they  will  comply  with  the 
conditions.  Now  the  important  thing  is  to  retain  it.  ,  Do  those  two 
things.  That  means  to  practice  faith  in  God  and  repentance  from  sin, 
garnish  thy  thoughts  with  virtue.  That  is  the  great  gospel  of  re- 
pentance. Let  your  faith  and  your  confidence  "wax  strong  in  the 
presence  of  God,"  receive  these  glorious  blessings,  let  your  heart  go 
out  in  love  and  sympathy  for  your  fellow  men;  and  these  blessings 
and  these  powers  shall  be  yours  and  will  lead  you  eventually,  just  as 
true  as  we  live,  into  the  presence  of  God  to  receive  the  reward  of  the 
righteous.  For  we  read  on  still  further  that  if  we  do  these  things  our 
"scepter" — that  is  the  weapon  that  we  may  use  to  combat  the  powers 
of  evil — "shall  be  an  unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth." 
That  is  the  sword  of  truth,  a  two-edged  sword.  Learn  how  to  wield 
it,  young  men  who  are  going  out  into  the  mission  field.  It  is  the 
weapon  whereby  you  may  combat  the  powers  of  evil  and  bring  converts 
to  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ — "an  unchanging  scepter  of 
righteousness  and  truth."  If  you  will  only  do  these  two  things,  that 
will  be  the  weapon  that  you  can  use  effectively  in  the  saving  of  human 
souls. 

And  then  comes  the  climax  of  all  blessings  that  will  accrue  to 
those  who  will  comply  with  those  conditions.  It  reads  like  this :  "And 
thy  dominion  shall  be  an  everlasting  dominion."  That  is  our  salvation, 
that  is  our  exaltation,  that  is  wherein  we  become  like  unto  our  Father  in 
heaven,  exercising  divine  power  in  having  bestowed  upon  us  a  domin- 
ion; and  it  shall  increase.  This  dominion  shall  be  an  everlasting 
dominion,  "and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto  us  for- 
ever and  ever."    That  is  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

We  read  these  two  paragraphs  and  do  not  realize  how  much  we 
could  find  within  them.  The  President  admonished  us  to  study  the 
book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Last  year  we  had  for  our  slogan — 
the  young  people  of  this  Church :  "We  stand  for  a  fuller  knowledge 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  a  testimony  of  its  divine  origin."  I  feel 
like  proposing  as  a  slogan  for  some  future  consideration:  We  stand 
for  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  for  a  testimony  of  its 
divine  origin.  The  books  are  full  of  just  such  passages  as  these  I  have 
quoted,  and  they  have  upon  them  the  impress  of  divinity. 

Let  us  study  the  word  of  God,  his  revelations ;  for  his  Church  has 
been  built  upon  that  solid  foundation  which  brings  us  into  communion 
with  our  Heavenly  Father.  May  we  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth 
and  in  good  works  day  by  day,  and  realize  the  glorious  promises  that 
have  been  made  to  us,  conditioned  upon  our  compliance  with  the"  laws 
upon  which  they  are  predicated,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.  , 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


81 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church 

It  is  one  thing  to  give  advice  and  counsel  and  it  is  another  thing 
to  take  it.  A  great  many  of  the  members  of  the  Church  have  sought 
counsel  at  the  hands  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  but  they 
have  not  all  taken  the  counsel  that  was  given  them.  It  is  the  privilege, 
however,  of  the  officers  of  the  Church  to  give  counsel  and  advice  when 
the  opportunity  affords  itself.  I  am  sure  the  Latter-day  Saints  will 
have  much  to  take  home  from  the  results  of  this  conference,  from  the 
fruits  of  the  testimony  of  the  Spirit,  and  the  experience  of  the  brethren. 
The  members  and  officers,  I  am  sure,  have  been  wonderfully  blessed 
during  this  conference. 

I  wish  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the  kindness  of  the  Lord 
to  me,  for  the  blessings  which  I  have  received  since  I  last  had  the 
privilege  of  standing  before  this  congregation.  I  am  very  grateful 
for  the  strength  I  possess  to  stand  here  today,  although  I  am  not  free 
from  suffering  while  I  do  so. 

I  know  there  are  many  people  in  the  Church  who  are  suffering 
today  from  lack  of  employment — from  the  lack  of  employment  to 
provide  the  necessities  of  life — and  a  word  of  encouragement  some- 
times helps.  I  am  very  happy  to  know  that  a  word  of  encouragement 
and  prayer,  if  you  please,  occasionally  helps  those  who  are  discouraged. 
I  have  in  my  office  a  collection  of  testimonies  from  individuals  all 
over  the  Church,  relative  to  their  gratitude  for  the  blessings  they  have 
received — the  result  of  a  word  of  encouragement  in  an  hour  of  need ; 
and  I  am  grateful  that  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  perform  my  part 
in  this  sacred  service.  I  regret  that  I  am  not  able  to  do  more  of  it.  I 
wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  admonish  the  people  generally  to  take 
the  advice  and  the  counsel  given  them  in  this  conference. 

I  have  been  asked  many  times  concerning  a  promise  that  is  fre- 
quently given  in  blessings  to  the  effect  that  the  person  would  be  guided 
by  the  influence  and  promptings  of  his  guardian  angel.  These  people 
have  said :  "Brother  Smith,  who  is  our  guardian  angel  ?"  The  spirits 
of  our  departed  loved  ones,  as  well  as  other  spirits,  may  be  appointed 
to  act  as  our  guardian  angels,  but  they  are  special  and  come  by  appoint- 
ment, while  the  Holy  Spirit  yields  a  constant  influence  over  our  lives 
for  our  guidance  and  protection.  Brother  Whitney  has  explained  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  is  in  all  things.  There  are  many  passages  in 
our  scriptures  which  explain  the  fact  that  the  Spirit  of  God  is  in  all 
things,  for  they  were  created  spiritually  before  they  were  created  tem- 
porally. Every  living  thing  upon  this  earth  was  created  spiritually 
before  it  was  created  temporally ;  therefore,  everything  that  is  upon  this 
earth  or  ever  has  been,  has  had  a  spirit,  and  that  spirit  has  had  a  guide 
for  its  protection.  And  so  we  Latter-day  Saints,  members  of  the 
Church  of  Christ,  having  been  especially  given  this  spirit,  having  it 
pointed  out  to  us  by  special  notice,  it  is  an  important  thing  in  our  lives 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  guide  us.  And  I  have  admonished  and  advised  a  great  many  of  our 
saints  that  if  they  will  only  hearken  unto  those  "sweet  and  peaceful 
promptings"  they  will  know  the  truth,  they  will  know  how  to  decide 
upon  matters  for  their  safety  and  success  in  temporal  and  in  spiritual 
affairs.  I  know  this  is  the  truth,  because  I  have  tried  it  myself,  and 
I  believe  it,  that  it  is  the  prompting  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  its 
influence  over  our  lives.  I  think,  too,  that  as  long  as  we  are  conscious 
of  our  activity  and  know  what  we  are  doing  we  never  do  wrong  but  that 
we  know  it  is  wrong ;  because  we  have  been  previously  warned,  whether 
it  is  right  or  wrong,  if  we  will  only  listen.  So  I  am  prepared,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  further  admonish  you  and  further  advise  you 
to  pay  attention  to  those  "sweet  and  peaceful  promptings,"  and  if  you 
will  listen  to  them  and  act  wisely,  you  will  make  fewer  mistakes  and 
enjoy  more  peace  and  safety  in  life. 

President  Woodruff  advised  that  we  listen  to  our  first  impressions, 
and  that  too  I  am  prepared  to  endorse  and  add  to  my  list  of  advice. 
As  a  rule  the  first  impression  is  the  right  one,  and  if  we  will  listen  to 
it,  it  will  guide  us  in  the  ways  of  truth  and  righteousness  and  safety, 
in  our  journey  through  mortality.  Referring  again  to  the  late  President 
Woodruff— this  principle  became  to  him  a  daily  guide  in  all  of  the 
affairs  of  his  work ;  a  wonderful  example  to  us  all.  In  many  instances 
he  and  his  loved  ones  were  spared  from  destruction  through  immediate 
response  to  his  first  impression — the  promptings  of  that  Still  Small 
Voice  that  whispered  to  him  and  guided  him  in  the  performance  of  his 
duty  and  in  the  ways  of  safety.  He  has  left  us  some  very  interesting 
little  stories  for  our  benefit  regarding  this  principle. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  guide  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  safely  in 
your  work,  that  you  may  be  further  obedient  to  those  whisperings  for 
your  protection  and  guidance  in  the  Church.  I  thank  the  Lord  for 
your  faith  and  for  your  prayers  for  my  personal  welfare;  and  in  turn 
I  pray  God  to  bless  you,  that  he  will  continue  to  bless  the  authorities 
of  the  Church,  President  Grant  and  his  associates — I  know  that  the 
Lord  has  blessed  them,  for  he  has  blessed  me  in  being  associated  with 
them.  I  am  grateful  indeed  for  the  prayers  and  blessings  of  my 
associates  in  the  ministry,  and  am  very  grateful  for  the  faith  and  the 
prayers  of  the  saints,  for  I  know  that  they  have  prevailed  for  my 
blessing.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  continue  to  bless  this  Church,  and 
all  those  who  are  working  in  it,  whether  at  home  or  in  the  mission 
field.  I  pray  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  those  who  may  be  disturbed 
in  their  feelings  and  do  not  know  how  to  decide  upon  what  they  ought 
to  do.  If  they  will  listen,  and  then  act  when  the  prompting  comes,  I 
predict  that  they  will  receive  comfort  and  blessing  for  their  relief. 
May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  attend  us  throughout  the  remainder  of 
this  conference,  and  when  we  go  home  may  we  take  with  us  the  advice 
and  counsel  and  blessings  which  are  given  for  our  benefit,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


83 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

"After  all  that  has  been  said,  the  greatest  and  most  important  duty  is  to 

preach  the  gospel." 

That  was  said  by  the  prophet  of  the  new  dispensation  in  a  council 
meeting  of  the  priesthood  in  Kirtland  on  the  6th  day  of  April,  1837. 
It  was  a  meeting  of  the  Apostles  and  a  number  of  other  brethren  holding 
the  priesthood,  at  which  the  Prophet  had  been  speaking  and  setting 
in  order  the  quorums  of  the  priesthood  and  teaching  them  its  doctrine, 
also  straightening  out  some  difficulties  that  had  arisen  in  some  of  the 
quorums.  He  dwelt  at  great  length  upon  these  doctrines  of  the  priest- 
hood. He  spoke  on  that  occasion  for  nearly  two  hours,  part  of  the 
time  in  severe  reproof  of  some  of  the  actions,  of  the  brethren,  and  then 
afterwards  in  setting  forth  great  doctrines  pertaining  to  the  priesthood, 
he  uttered  the  words  I  have  just  read : 

"After  all  that  has  been  said,  the  most  important  duty  is  to  preach  the  gospel." 

The  trend  of  thought  in  the  several  meetings  we  have  held  in  this 
conference  has  been  largely  in  the  direction  of  giving  encouragement 
and  admonition  to  go  on  in  the  work  of  preaching  the  gospel,  that  has 
been  restored  in  this  great  and  new  dispensation  of  it.  And  so  this 
passage  came  to  my  mind  from  the  history  of  the  Church,  and  I  have 
asked  myself  several  times  during  the  conference  if  there  has  been  any 
change  in  respect  to  this  matter  mentioned  by  the  prophet.  Is  it  still 
true  that  "after  all  that  has  been  said  the  most  important  thing  is  the 
preaching  of  the  gospel"? 

In  a  number  of  the  early  revelations  that  were  given  in  the 
Church  about  the  time  of  its  organization  and  the  publication  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  there  is  answer  given  to  a  number  of  personal 
questions,  to  brethren  who  had  rendered  some  assistance  to  the  Prophet 
in  bringing  forth  the  Book  of  Mormon.  They  saw  his  preparations 
being  made  for  the  organization  of  the  Church,  and  they  began  to 
wonder  what  their  relationship  to  the  forthcoming  work  would  be, 
what  it  would  mean  to  them.  The  Prophet's  brother,  Hyrum,  came 
making  such  inquiry;  so  did  Joseph  Knight,  the  grandfather  of  our 
"Uncle  Jesse  Knight,"  as  we  knew  him  here  in  our  pleasant  relations 
with  him.  The  Prophet's  father  came  to  know  what  would  be  his  lot 
and  part  in  the  forthcoming  of  the  great  work,  and  the  Prophet  by 
means  of  the  Urim  and  Thummim,  which  he  still  had  in  his  pos- 
session, made  inquiry  and  told  them  what  would  be  their  lot  and  part ; 
and  there  is  this  singular  thing  in  all  the  answers  that  were  given  at 
that  time  through  the  divine  instrument  of  revelation,  through  the 
inspired  Prophet,  that  there  was  no  promise  made  of  material  welfare 
and  prosperity,  no  office  promised  to  them,  no  honor  among  men,  noth- 
ing that  the  heart  of  man  naturally  craves.  The  type  of  the  answers 
in  those  several  revelations,  and  there  are  some  eight  or  ten  of  them, 
was  the  one  given  to  Oliver  Cowdery.    The  Lord  said  to  him  in  the 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


revelation  given  unto  him  as  to  what  he  should  do  in  the  new  dis- 
pensation : 

"Many  times  you  have  desired  of  me  to  know  that  which  would  be  of 
the  most  worth  unto  you. 

"Behold,  blessed  are  you  for  this  thing,  and  for  speaking  my  words  which 
I  have  given  you  according  to  my  commandments. 

"And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  the  thing  which  shall  be  of  .most 
worth  unto  you  is  to  declare  repentance  unto  this  people,  that  you  may  bring 
souls  unto  me,  that  you  may  rest  with  them  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father.  Amen." 

It  was  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  speaking. 

Again  to  David  Whitmer  and  Oliver  Cowdery  conjointly  this  was 
said : 

"Remember,  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  .God , 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  yotir  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh ;  wherefore 
he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and  come  unto  him. 

***** 

"And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth ! 

"Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repentance 
unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be 
your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father!" 

I  take  it  that  there  has  been  no  change  in  these  principles ;  that 
it  still  holds  good  that  great  is  the  joy  of  the  Lord  in  the  soul  that  is 
brought  to  repentance:  that  it  is  still  true  that  if  one  should  labor 
his  whole  life  and  succeed  in  bringing  only  one  soul  to  a  knowledge  of 
the  truth  and  into  the  kingdom  of  God,  great  will  be  his  joy  in  the 
kingdom  of  our  Father ;  and  that  it  is  still  true  that  the  most  important 
work  in  which  man  can  engage  is  to  declare  repentance  unto  this  people, 
that  the  ministry  of  this  Church  may  bring  souls  unto  God.  Therefore, 
it  is  eminently  fitting  in  this  conference  that  our  brethren  should  be 
inspired  to  emphasize  this  work  of  "preaching  the  gospel,"  and  what 
the  Prophet  said  in  1837  is  still  true,  that  "after  all  that  has  been  said 
the  most  important  thing  is  the  preaching  of  the  gospel." 

The  strength  and  power  of  our  Church  and  the  progress  it  has 
made  in  the  world  and  the  great  things  that  have  been  accomplished 
by  it  have  been  in  due  proportion  to  our  adherence  to  this  missionary 
spirit  that  prompts  us  so  willingly  to  preach  the  gospel. 

Preaching  the  gospel  is  the  dissemination  of  God's  revealed  truths, 
the  messages  of  God,  to  the  woflH.  In  the  nature  of  the  thing  itself 
there  could  be  no  more  important  thing  than  to  impart  knowledge 
and  wisdom  of  God  unto  the  children  of  men,  that  it  may  save  them 
to  the  uttermost.  What  could  be  more  important  than  spreading  abroad 
a  knowledge  of  those  enlightening  truths  which  God  has  sent  into  the 
world  through  his  appointed  and  inspired  prophets?  And  I  think  I 
may  say,  for  I  feel  it  to  be  true,  that  in  all  the  responsibilities  and  labors 
that  have  been  placed  upon  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  our  people  have  not  been  more  faithful  in  anything  than  they 
have  been  in  this  thing  of  preaching  the  gospel.    I  think  the  Lord  is 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


85 


well  pleased  with  his  people  for  the  responses  they  have  made  to  this, 
call  of  his  to  send  forth  his  messages  of  truth  into  the  world,  and  I  am 
delighted  to  see  that  the  Church  has  responded  also  to  the  great  spirit 
of  the  message  that  was  to  be  delivered  to  the  earth  in  the  hour  of 
God's  judgment.  St.  John  describes  it  as  he  saw  it  in  vision  when  he 
declared  that  he  had  seen  "another  angel  flying  in  the  midst  of  heaven, 
having  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue 
and  people,  saying,"  and  saying  it  with  a  loud  voice,  "Fear  God  and 
give  glory  to  him  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  has  come,  and  worship 
him  who  created  heaven  and  earth,  and  the  seas,  and  the  fountains 
of  water." 

It  was  God's  call  to  the  world  to  come  to  the  worship  of  the  true- 
and  the  living  God,  and  it  was  to  go  to  all  people.  And  it  was 
particularized  so  that  there  should  be  no  mistake — it  was  to  go  to  "every 
nation  and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people" ;  and  the  Church  has 
responded  to  that  splendid  universal  spirit  and  mission  given  to  our 
Church  in  having  the  gospel  restored  to  it.  We  have  been  practically 
to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people.  I  have  marveled  some- 
times in  my  own  heart  that  we  should  remember  the  undeveloped  peoples 
in  the  islands  of  the  sea,  even  in  the  early  decades  of  our  history; 
that  we  should  remember  people  with  whose  race  and  with  whose 
national  life  we  have  little  in  sympathy.  Yet,  under  the  inspiration  that 
goes  with  this  work  of  preaching  the  gospel,  the  elders  of  the  Church 
have  been  sent  everywhere,  and  almost  every  land  and  race  and  nation 
has  given  up  of  its  sons  and  daughters  to  be  gathered  to  Zion  to  stand 
as  witnesses  unto  God  and  to  the  world,  that  there  is  virtue  and  spiritual 
power  in  this  gospel  that  has  been  restored  in  these  days ;  and  that  it 
has  taken  hold  of  the  splendid  spirit  of  the  fatherhood  for  the  human 
race ;  and  by  our  universal  proclamation  of  the  gospel  we  have  borne 
witness  to  the  world  that  God  is  interested  in  all  humanity,  that  he  is 
no  respecter  of  persons.    In  that  spirit  the  Church  has  labored. 

I  rejoice  greatly  in  the  report  of  President  Grant  in  regard  to  the 
building  program  of  the  Church,  by  which  in  very  many  of  the  missions, 
almost  in  all  of  them,  there  have  been  churches  erected  to  the  name  of 
the  Most  High  God.  I  have  a  thought  in  relation  to  that  work  which 
came  to  me  while  we  were  dedicating  some  of  the  chapels  which  were 
builded  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission  while  I  was  its  president ;  and 
we  never  dedicated  a  church,  however  humble  it  was,  but  what  I  felt 
and  said,  that  here  we  were  erecting  an  altar,  not  unto  the  unknown 
God,  but  to  the  known  Father  of  the  human  race,  the  God  of  heaven, 
whose  Son  Jesus  Christ  is.  And  all  through  the  land  where  we  build 
these  chapels  we  are  erecting  altars  to  the  known  God,  to  which  the 
people  may  come  and  find  the  truth  and  be  instructed  therein.  I  rejoice 
in  every  chapel  that  is  builded,  another  altar  to  the  known  God,  a 
center  to  which  the  people  may  come  and  receive  the  truth.  In  this 
spirit  we  are  erecting  these  chapels  as  altars  to  God  in  the  midst  of  the 
people.  The  Savior  said  that  the  kingdom  of  heaven  was  like  unto 
leaven  that  the  woman  hid  in  three  measures  of  meal  until  the  whole 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  leavened,  filled  with  life.  And  so  in  this  blessed  land  of  ours,  the 
land  of  Zion,  these  chapels,  meeting  places,  these  temples,  are  so 
many  altars  unto  God,  calling  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  to  the  worship 
of  the  true  and  the  living  God.  For  it  is  the  plain  implication  in  the 
vision  of  St.  John  on  Patmos  that  the  whole  world  had  departed  from 
the  worship  of  the  true  God  and  must  needs  be  called  back  to  the 
worship  of  the  true  and  living  God. 

Whenever  I  pass  this  temple,  walk  alongside  of  it  and  contemplate 
its  towers,  its  architectural  beauty — of  course  I  remember  primarily 
that  it  is  the  House  of  the  Lord  wherein  the  sacred  mysteries  of  heaven 
are  revealed  for  the  instruction  of  men,  and  holy  ordinances  for  the 
living  and  for  the  dead  are  performed — but  I  hold  it  as  sacred  in  my 
heart  as  I  look  upon  it ;  and  I  have  another  thought  in  connection  with 
it,  and  that  is  that  it  is  a  mass  testimony  of  a  whole  people,  a  testimony 
to  the  world  that  God  has  spoken,  and  that  he  has  revealed  his  truths 
once  more  for  the  salvation  of  men  and  has  ushered  in  the  dispensa- 
tion of  the  fulness  of  times.  It  is  a  mass — a  community  testimony  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  becomes  a  witness  wherever  even  the 
counterfeit  presentment  of  its  architectural  beauty  is  published  to  the 
world.  I  love  the  temple  as  a  testimony  to  the  world  of  God's  great 
new  dispensation  of  his  gospel,  and  the  other  temples  also  partake 
of  the  same  glory  and  power  and  spirit. 

Now,  I  am  taking  too  much  time  on  these  things.  There  is  some- 
thing else  I  wanted  to  say,  and  it  is  this:  We  have  been  abundantly 
admonished  in  this  conference  to  give  attention  to  the  preaching  of  the* 
gospel  and  to  the  living  of  its  principles;  but  I  am  emphasizing  the 
matter  of  preaching  it  to  the  world.  Since,  however,  we  are  so  ad- 
monished in  this  our  latest  conference  to  regard  this  part  of  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  what  is  necessary  on  our  part  to  get  imbued  with  this 
spirit  of  preaching  the  gospel? 

In  the  early  decades  of  the  Church  there  were  existing  conditions 
that  contributed  mightily  to  the  spiritual  life  and  upholding  of  the  zeal 
and  hopes  of  the  people,  but  things  that  are  not  so  prevalent  now  in 
our  midst.  For  example,  in  the  first  years  of  the  existence  of  the 
Church,  the  fact  that  we  were  proclaiming  that  God  had  spoken  again, 
that  a  new  revelation  had  been  given — the  truth  of  that  was  immediately 
challenged.  Ministers  of  the  gospel  set  themselves  to  work  to  prove 
that  the  volume  of  scripture  was  completed  and  forever  closed,  and, 
therefore,  there  was  no  room  for  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  there  was 
no  occasion  for  the  revelation  given  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
The  awful  voice  of  prophecy  had  ceased.  There  were  to  be  no  more 
prophets.  The  volume  of  scripture  was  completed  and  forever  closed. 
Well,  we  won  that  victory.  It  was  not  difficult  to  do  so.  The  evidence 
of  the  scriptures  and  the  genius  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  itself 
demanded  a  continual  revelation  if  the  spiritual  life  of  the  Church 
was  to  be  maintained ;  and  so  our  early  elders  obtained  an  easy  victory 
over  those  who  assailed  us  on  that  point.  But  the  thought  of  a  new 
revelation  was  a  novel  one;  it  attracted  the  attention  of  the  world;  it 


ELDER  BRlGHAM  H.  ROBERTS  87 

became  a  center  of  interest.  We  were  witnesses  of  it.  Well,  I  say 
that  battle  was  easily  won,  and  we  hear  little  today  of  objection  against 
the  idea  that  God's  power  is  just  as  great  in  modern  times  as  in  ancient 
times,  and  there  are  very  few  who  will  undertake  to  disprove  the 
possibility  or  even  the  probability  of  continuous  revelation. 

Also  in  those  early  decades  we  had  in  our  minds  the  idea  of 
finding  and  establishing  Zion,  and  afterward,  through  the  revelations 
of  God,  we  found  where  the  center  place  would  be  and  could  bear  wit- 
ness of  that ;  and  some  of  the  saints  from  the  East  gathered  into  Jackson 
County  and  founded  the  city  of  Zion,  where  a  temple  was  to  be  built, 
the  plans  of  which  were  revealed  to  the  Prophet.  Then  came  on 
persecution  and  expulsion  from  Jackson  County. 

Then  the  great  point  of  interest  for  a  number  of  years  was  "the 
redemption  of  Zion"  and  the  re-establishment  of  the  saints  upon  their 
lands  and  the  building  of  the  city  and  the  temple.  Well,  that  does  not 
now  play  so  important  a  part  in  the  message  we  have  for  the  world  in 
the  preaching  of  the  gospel. 

Also  we  had  revealed  to  us  the  doctrine,  the  great  doctrine,  of 
consecration  of  all  our  possessions  and  the  receiving  back  of  a  steward- 
ship from  our  consecrations.  We  had  a  desire  to  see  the  wealth  that 
should  be  created  by  the  hands  of  the  people  more  justly  distributed, 
so  that  there  would  be  less  distinction  of  rich  and  poor  in  the  Church, 
and  that  there  might  be  a  community  of  interests  and  a  community 
of  resources  from  which  the  welfare  of  the  people  could  be  provided. 
That  occupied  our  attention  for  a  number  of  years.  But  we  are  not 
saying  so  much  about  that  now.  It  is  in  the  background  of  things,  a 
part  of  the  new  dispensation,  just  as  the  redemption  of  Zion  is.  But 
what  I  wish  to  say  is  that  these  several  things  are  not  at  present  what 
you  would  call  live  issues  with  us.  We  are  not  giving  much  attention 
to  those  things  now. 

Again  in  the  early  decades  of  the  Church  the  people  were  led  to 
believe  almost  in  the  immediate  coming,  the  glorious  coming,  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  power  and  great  glory,  and  that  the  time  was  near 
at  hand.  Indeed  there  were  many  who  fixed  upon  about  the  time 
when  he  would  come.  Well,  we  still  believe  in  the  coming  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  but  we  do  not  very  often  refer  to  it  in  these  days,  and 
it  is  not  so  particularly  influencing  our  actions  and  our  faith  as  it  did 
in  times  past.  The  Lord  will  come  when  he  will  come,  and  that  he 
will  come  we  are  assured.  The  time  of  it  is  in  his  hands,  where  we 
feel  that  we  can  safely  let  it  rest.  Indeed,  we  must  needs  leave  it  there 
because  it  is  part  of  the  revelation  of  God  unto  the  world  that  no  man 
knoweth  the  day  nor  the  hour  of  his  coming,  no,  not  even  the  angels  in 
heaven.   So  I  say  we  leave  that  in  the  hands  of  God. 

Also  we  looked  in  those  times  past  to  a  rather  wonderful  and 
dramatic  gathering  of  the  Ten  Tribes  of  Israel,  with  mountains  of  ice 
flowing  down  before  their  presence  and  their  coming  in  great  numbers, 
with  the  everlasting  hills  trembling  at  their  presence,  and  all  that.  Per- 
haps we  have  not  always  attributed  sufficient  importance  to  the  imagery 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  poetry  and  revelation  in  giving  interpretation  to  these  scenes.  Well, 
the  Ten  Tribes  of  Israel,  if  they  are  to  come  in  that  manner,  will  come 
when  they  will,  and  the  Lord  will  bring  them. 

But  now,  what  is  the  situation  that  confronts  us  in  the  matter  of 
preaching  the  gospel  ?  Why,  we  are  reaching  more  fundamental  things 
than  these.  We  have  discovered  from  the  remarks  of  the  brethren  in 
this  conference  that  the  world  is  ignorant  of  the  nature  of  God  the 
Father,  ignorant  of  the  nature  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Few  Chris- 
tians believe  that  the  resurrected  Redeemer  is  today  what  he  was  at  the 
time  of  his  resurrection,  a  union  of  spirit  with  his  beautiful  personality 
of  body,  and  the  two  united  in  an  immortal,  indestructible,  forever- 
living  Son  of  Cod.  They  believe  rather  that  the  splendid  personality — 
splendid  as  it  is  represenated  in  the  New  Testament  to  be — had  been 
dissolved  into  some  indefinable  essence,  such  as  the  rose,  as  it  decays, 
dissolves  and  gives  off  a  beautiful  perfume  with  which  it  dies,  and 
which  to  produce  it  must  needs  die.  And  so  the  Son  of  God  has 
become  an  indefinable  presence,  merely ;  while  the  splendid  personality 
which  stood  before  his  apostles  when  he  gloriously  said  as  a  resur- 
rected personage :  "All  power  is  given  to  me  in  heaven  and  earth.  Go 
now  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  nation,  and  lo,  I  am  with  you  to  the 
end  of  the  world,"  for  many  Christians  has  passed  out  of  tangible 
existence,  and  God  has  become  a  diffused  essence  through  the  world. 
Well,  they  don't  know  the  truth  about  God  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  to 
know  is  declared  to  be  life  eternal. 

We  have  heard  from  some  of  the  brethren  here  and  have  read  that 
men  do  not  know  and  may  not  hope  to  know  the  purposes  of  God  in 
creation.  Men  confess  that  they  do  not  know  whether  the  resurrection 
is  to  bring  to  pass  personal  immortality  or  whether  men,  too,  are  going 
to  pass  off  into  something  like  an  essence,  or  be  dispelled  into  ordinary 
elements  of  some  kind  or  other  about  which  they  know  little  or  nothing. 

These  great  fundamental  truths  in  relation  to  God  and  man  and 
the  resurrection  from  the  dead ;  and  "how  we  shall  spend  eternity,"  and 
"what  we  shall  do  there" — they  are  ignorant  of  these  things.  And  so 
the  Lord  God,  early  in  the  history  of  this  new  dispensation,  told  his 
ministers,  (years  before  the  Prophet  announced  that  the  most  im- 
portant thing  was  to  preach  the  gospel)  what  it  would  be  necessary  for 
them  to  do  in  order  to  be  prepared  to  preach  the  gospel.  The  Lord 
said  to  them: 

"I  give  unto  you  a  commandment — " 

These  were  elders  waiting  for  the  time  to  go  out  into  the  mission 
field— 

"I  give  unto  you  a  commandment,  that  ye  shall  teach  one  another  the  doctrine 
of  the  kingdom. 

"Teach  ye  diligently  and  my  grace  shall  attend  you,  that  you  may  be  in- 
structed more  perfectly  in  theory,  in  principle,  in  doctrine,  in  the  law  of  the 
gospel,  in  all  things  that  pertain  unto  the  kingdom  of  God,  that  are  expedient 
for  you  to  understand; 

"Of  things  both  in  heaven  and  in  the  earth,  and  under  the  earth;  things 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


89 


which  have  been,  things  which  are,  things  which  must  shortly  come  to  pass ; 
things  which  are  at  home,  things  which  are  abroad ;  the  wars  and  the  per- 
plexities of  the  nations,  and  the  judgments  which  are  on  the  land;  and  a  knowl- 
edge also  of  countries  and  of  kingdoms." 

And  now,  why  invite  this  group  of  elders  into  this  very  extended 
field  of  knowledge  and  admonish  them  to  be  faithful  in  their  studies 
in  all  these  things  that  go  back  into  the  past,  that  deal  with  the  present, 
which  extend  into  the  future,  a  knowledge  of  kingdoms  and  govern- 
ments and  countries  and  laws  of  men,  things  in  heaven  and  on  the  earth 
and  under  the  earth,  which  embrace  all  possible  fields  of  knowledge? 
Why  did  God  give  this  admonition  to  these  elders?  Listen  to  the 
answer : 

"That  ye  may  be  prepared  in  all  things  when  I  shall  send  you  again  to 
magnify  the  calling  whereunto  I  have  called  you,  and  the  mission  with  which  I 
have  commissioned  you. 

"Behold,  I  sent  you  out  to  testify  and  warn  the  people,  and  it  becometh 
every  man  who  has  been  warned  to  warn  his  neighbor." 

And  also  in  that  sermon  of  the  Prophet's  wherein  he  told  the  elders 
that  the  greatest  thing  was  to  preach  the  gospel.  "All,"  said  he,  "are 
to  preach  the  gospel  by  the  power  and  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 
"None  can  preach  the  gospel  without  the  Holy  Ghost." 

So  now,  there  is  our  work  of  preparation  set  before  us,  and  that 
is  the  immediate  duty  and  work  of  the  priesthood  of  God,  to  make 
preparation,  to  constitute  yourselves  an  intelligent  ministry,  operating 
and  testifying  in  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  The  Lord  bless  you. 
Amen. 

A  vocal  solo,  "Lord,  remember  me,"  was  sung  by  Arnold  Blackner. 

The  congregation  then  sang  "Praise  God  from  whom  all  blessings 
flow."  > 

Elder  James  Duckworth,  President  of  the  Blackfoot  stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  a.  m.  Sunday,  October  7,  1928. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday,  October  7,  1928.  Every  seat  in  the  tabernacle  and  all 
available  space  in  the  aisles  and  doorways  was  occupied  by  the  large 
number  of  people  who  had  assembled.  Thousands  who  were  unable 
to  get  inside  of  the  tabernacle  listened  to  the  services  as  they  were 
broadcast  in  the  assembly  hall  and  on  the  tabernacle  grounds. 

Conference  reconvened  at  10 :00  a.  m. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man." 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Stephen  L.  Chipman. 
The  choir  sang,  "That  sweet  story  of  old." 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  am  grateful  to  my  heavenly  Father  this  morning  to  be  permitted 
to  worship  with  you,  as  I  have  been  during  the  preceding  sessions  of 
this  conference.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  live  in  a  land  such  as  this 
in  which  we  dwell  and  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  free,  to  be  permitted 
to  worship  God  according  to  the  dictates  of  our  conscience,  and  to  feel 
that  we  accord  to  every  living  human  being  the  same  privilege  that  we 
desire  for  ourselves. 

DIVINE  ANCESTRY 

When  our  Lord  prepared  this  earth  that  it  might  be  the  abiding 
place  of  his  children,  he  planned  that  those  who  would  come  to  dwell 
upon  it  should  know  him  as  their  Father,  they  being  created  in  his 
image,  both  male  and  female.  He  gave  to  those  spirits  that  he  had 
created  the  opportunity  to  have  physical  tabernacles,  that  they  might 
enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  earth  that  he  had  prepared  for  them. 

It  does  seem  strange  that  so  many  people  doubt  our  divine  ancestry, 
and  that  God  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits ;  yet  from  the  very  beginning, 
from  the  very  earliest  period  of  which  we  have  any  record  in  this  world, 
he  has  been  teaching  men  and  women  this  fact. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  OUR  EXISTENCE 

I  am  thinking  this  morning  of  the  condition  that  confronts  mankind, 
how  many  there  are  who  do  not  know  why  we  live  upon  this  earth, 
comparatively  few  who  really  understand  the  purpose  of  the  coming 
of  our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ;  and  yet  in  this  great  land  of 
America,  in  this  latter  day  he  has  restored  that  knowledge,  and  for- 
tunately for  hundreds  of  thousands  of  men  and  women  they  have  been 
permitted  to  receive  it.  When  God  created  the  earth  and  placed  our 
first  parents  upon  it,  he  did  not  leave  them  without  knowledge  con- 
cerning himself.  It  is  true  that  there  had  been  taken  from  them  the 
remembrance  of  their  pre-existent  life,  but  in  his  tender  mercy  he 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


91 


talked  with  them  and  later  he  sent  his  choice  servants  to  instruct  them 
in  the  things  pertaining  to  eternal  life.  History  has  repeated  itself  many 
times.  Refusal  to  obey  the  counsels  of  the  Lord  has  been  followed  by 
destruction,  and  I  fear  that  unless  humanity  recognizes  him  as  the  God 
of  this  earth,  disaster  may  come  again  to  the  nations. 

A  BLESSED  AGE 

We  live  in  a  marvelous  age.  No  people  who  have  dwelt  upon 
the  earth  have  partaken  of  so  many  of  the  comforts  and  blessings  of 
life.  No  people  have  had  such  opportunities,  as  are  offered  to  the 
children  of  men  in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live ;  and  remarkable 
as  it  may  seem,  you  analyze  the  conditions  that  exist,  every  blessing 
that  has  come  to  us  has  been  one  that  conforms  to  the  ideals  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  do  not  have  to  go  outside  the  Church  for 
real  blessings ;  we  do  not  have  to  depart  from  the  teachings  of  our  fore- 
fathers in  order  to  enjoy  that  which  is  most  precious  in  life,  but  on 
the  contrary  those  who  believe  most  firmly  in  God,  those  who  know 
of  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ  and  partake  of  the  gifts  that  come 
as  a  result  of  his  teachings  are  the  happiest  people  that  can  be  found 
upon  the  earth.  I  fear,  however,  that  the  prosperity  that  attends  us 
has  a  tendency  to  draw  our  attention  from  the  most  important  things  of 
life.  I  fear  that  the  sins  of  men  blind  them  to  the  blessings  of  the 
Giver  of  all  good;  I  am  hoping  and  praying  with  you  that  this  great 
and  wonderful  nation  of  which  we  are  a  part  may  not  succumb  to  the 
evils  that  afflict  mankind  and  forsake  the  generous  offering  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  of  peace  and  plenty  and  happiness,  while  we  dwell 
here  upon  the  earth. 

THE  EXPERIENCE  OF  FORMER  CIVILIZATIONS 

I  have  no  doubt  that  in  the  days  of  Noah  there  were  many  people 
who  had  opportunities  to  know  the  truth.  I  have  no  doubt  that  in 
his  day  he  was  very  diligent  in  trying  to  teach  the  people  the  purpose  of 
their  being.  He  knew  why  they  were  here.  He  knew  that  it  wa  s  neces- 
sary to  have  faith  in  God.  He  knew  that  all  that  we  enjoy  comes  from 
a  generous  Heavenly  Father,  and  for  one  hundred  and  twenty  years 
he  traveled  to  and  fro  in  that  section  of  the  world  and  proclaimed  the 
truth,  until  finally  the  wickedness  of  the  world  became  so  great  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  directed  his  faithful  servant  to  prepare  to  save  himself 
and  his  household.  Then  a  great  deluge  swept  the  earth,  and  those 
who  had  been  created  in  the  image  of  God,  who  had  been  alien  to  the 
blessings  that  he  offered  them  so  generously,  were  drowned  in  order 
that  a  new  race  might  come  upon  the  earth,  with  opportunity  to  learn 
of  his  ways  that  they  might  walk  in  his  paths. 

You  remember  the  experience  of  the  cities  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah. 
The  servants  of  the  Lord  were  there,  anxious  to  teach  the  way  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  yet  the  philosophies  of  men  turned  them  aside  from 
the  wisdom  of  the  living  God,  and  eventually  fire  came  down  from 
heaven  and  destroyed  those  communities,  not  because  they  were  serving 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  God  of  this  earth,  but  because  they  were  serving  Baal  and  other 
false  gods. 

Let  us  consider  America  and  think  of  how  our  Heavenly  Father  in 
his  mercy,  directed  the  Jaredites  at  the  time  of  the  confusion  of  tongues, 
at  the  tower  of  Babel,  and  brought  them  to  this  great  western  land  and 
gave  them  teachers  after  his  own  heart.  It  was  not  many  generations 
after  they  came  here  until  they  became  alien  to  the  truth.  They  sought 
after  those  things  that  gratified  passions  and  appealed  to  their  appetites, 
and  the  result  was  that  as  a  nation  they  were  exterminated.  Then  there 
were  the  descendants  of  Lehi,  those  who  came  from  Jerusalem  six 
hundred  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ.  They  came  to  America  and 
began  to  settle  it.  Then  there  grew  up  among  them  those  who  did  not 
desire  to  serve  the  Lord.  Those  who  had  been  faithful  eventually 
succumbed  to  the  evils  of  mankind;  dishonesty,  immorality,  intemper- 
ance and  all  those  things  that  have  a  tendency  to  break  down  civilization, 
resulting  in  complete  destruction  of  the  descendants  of  Nephi. 

Why?  Because  they  would  not  serve  our  Heavenly  Father  whose 
children  they  were. 

Analyze  the  conditions  of  the  American  Indian.  He  came  from  a. 
people  who  were  educated,  a  people  who  had  enjoyed  the  blessings  of 
civilization,  a  people  who  had  been  taught  by  the  prophets  of  the  living 
God;  yet  because  of  indifference  and  carelessness,  because  of  their  wil- 
fulness and  selfishness,  they  too  lost  the  power  to  reason  and  to  think 
properly,  and  eventually  became  the  obscure  and  unlettered  and  un- 
tutored savage  that  was  found  here  when  the  white  men  came  from  a 
foreign  shore  to  settle  here.  These  people  refused  the  blessings  of  the 
living  God  and  lost  their  birthright,  as  did  many  other  races.  Each 
of  these  nations  has  fallen  from  the  high  estate  to  which  God  had 
permitted  it  to  come,  n3s  lost  its  heritage  because  the  people  were  not 
willing  to  humble  themselves  and  acknowledge  that  our  Heavenly 
Father  was  the  God  of  this  earth. 

A  LAND  OF  LIBERTY 

Think  of  the  blessings  that  came  to  America.  How  Columbus 
was  inspired  to  go  out  upon  the  great  waters  and  find  his  way  to  this 
western  land.  Then  the  settlers  of  Jamestown,  the  pilgrim  fathers,  and 
all  those  early  pioneers  who  came  to  America  because  they  desired  to 
serve  God  according  to  the  dictates  of  their  conscience.  The  Lord 
blessed  them  and  finally  raised  up  a  nation  that  is  the  wonder  and 
the  admiration  of  the  earth.  Those  men  who  framed  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States  were  not  only  wise  in  the  things  of  this  world,  but 
they  were  inspired  by  our  Heavenly  Father  who  raised  them  up  for 
that  very  purpose.  This  marvelous  government  that  we  enjoy  in  this 
favored  land  of  liberty,  was  given  to  man  that  it  might  be  a  blessing  to 
him.  Here  men  and  women  are  permitted  to  worship  God  according 
to  the  dictates  of  their  conscience.  Our  Heavenly  Father  will  not 
coerce  or  compel  mankind,  but  in  loving  kindness  has  given  to  them 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


93 


from  the  age  when  the  world  was  first  peopled  until  now,  opportunity 
to  know  the  truth. 

THE  GOSPEL  WHAT  IT  IS 

What  is  this  gospel  to  which  we  refer?  It  is  the  only  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  it  is  the  only  plan  that  will  enable  man  to  go 
back  into  the  presence  of  his  Maker  and  enjoy  the  celestial  kingdom. 
It  Is  the  only  plan  that  will  bring  peace  and  happiness  to  all  the  children 
of  men,  of  every  race  and  creed ;  and  it  is  the  one  plan  that  should  give 
men  a  desire  to  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments,  in  order  that 
they  might  be  happy  and  rejoice  in  the  happiness  of  their  fellows. 
Faith  in  God,  repentance  of  sin,  baptism  for  the  remission  of  sins 
after  the  pattern  by  which  the  Savior  was  baptized,  laying  on  of  hands 
for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  men  may  receive  increased  inspira- 
tion from  our  Heavenly  Father  to  enable  them  to  follow  his  teachings 
and  know  that  he  lives — these  are  the  fundamentals  of  the  gospel 
of  our  Lord.  Not  difficult  to  understand  but  easy  if  we  will  but  submit 
ourselves  to  that  feeling  that  always  comes  to  us  when  in  the  humility 
of  our  souls  we  recognize  the  Creator  of  all  things.  In  our  day  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  been  organized,  not 
after  the  wisdom  of  men.  When  I  speak  thus  I  have  no  unkindness 
in  my  heart  towards  all  these  great  religious  organizations  in  the  world. 
Men  have  done  their  best  to  give  to  the  world  a  system  of  ethics  and 
a  desire  to  live  so  that  the  best  that  is  in  life  might  be  enjoyed,  but  it 
remained  for  God  the  Eternal  Father,  through  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  to 
give  to  this  earth  in  this  latter-day  the  gospel  that  he  formerly  gave 
to  the  people  in  Judea,  and  to  give  to  us  in  our.  day  a  more  perfect 
understanding  of  the  purpose  of  our  being.  We  are  privileged  to  live 
in  the  blaze  of  this  glorious  century  when  our  Heavenly  Father  has 
organized  his  Church,  has  placed  in  it  divine  authority  and  has  required 
those  who  possessed  that  authority  to  administer,  not  in  arrogance,  not 
lifted  up  in  their  own  conceit,  but  to  go  to  and  fro  in  the  world  and  in 
humility  and  love  say  to  his  children :  "Our  Father  has  again  given  to 
the  earth  the  gospel  of  our  Lord,  and  we  come  to  divide  with  you  this 
mercy  that  gives  us  such  peace  and  such  happiness." 

THE  DUTY  OF  PARENTS 

As  I  think  of  the  conditions  that  exist,  the  lawlessness  that  seems  to 
have  grown  more  rampant  throughout  the  world  since  the  war,  I  am 
reminded  of  some  lines  of  Rudyard  Kipling: 

"Lord  God  of  hosts  be  with  us  yet, 
Lest  we  forget,  lest  we  forget." 

.  And  you  men  who  stand  upon  the  watchtowers  of  Zion,  you  men 
upon  whom  has  been  conferred  divine  authority,  I  plead  with  you  that 
you  honor  that  authority.  We  have  a  wonderful  Church  organization, 
but  the  one  place  where  we  may  have  greater  influence  than  any  other 
is  in  the  homes  in  which  we  reside.  We  have  our  Sabbath  Schools,  our 
Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  our  Relief  Societies,  our  Primaries, 
our  Church  schools  and  seminaries.    All  these  institutions  are  intended 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  develop  the  best  that  is  in  mankind,  but  we  as  parents  of  children 
in  this  Church  have  no  right  to  place  the  responsibility  upon  these 
organizations  to  establish  faith  in  the  hearts  of  these  children  that  God 
has  placed  in  our  homes.  It  is  your  duty  and  mine  to  teach  the  children 
that  come  to  our  homes.  It  is  your  duty  and  mine  to  exemplify  in  the 
presence  of  our  wives  and  our  children  those  glorious  principles  that 
our  Heavenly  Father  has  given  to  us  to  prepare  us  for  eternal  life 
in  his  celestial  kingdom.  And  if  we  fail  to  do  that,  then  will  we  come 
under  condemnation,  and  we  will  discover  when  it  is  too  late  that  we 
have  missed  the  great  blessing  that  our  Father  offered  to  us.  He  has 
told  us  very  plainly  in  this  latter-day  that  those  of  us  who  have  chil- 
dren in  Zion  or  in  any  of  her  stakes  that  are  organized,  who  fail  to 
teach  them  faith  in  God,  repentance,  baptism,  and  those  things  that 
are  essential  for  their  salvation,  the  sin  will  be  upon  our  heads.  I  desire 
to  emphasize  this  obligation  that  is  upon  us,  that  we  cannot  shift  to 
anybody  else  in  the  world  the  duty  to  exemplify  in  our  lives  and  to 
teach  these  boys  and  girls  in  our  homes,  that  as  they  grow  up  they 
may  develop  in  the  nurture  and  admonition  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

THE  DANGER  THAT  CONFRONTS  US 

We  live  in  a  great  and  wonderful  age.  The  glory  of  this  century 
is  beyond  that  of  any  other  century;  but  I  feel  that  we  are  in  just  as 
great  danger  as  were  those  who  lived  in  the  days  of  Noah,  or  those 
who  lived  in  the  days  of  Nephi  upon  this  great  western  land.  We  are 
in  as  great  danger  as  any  nation  that  has  ever  lived,  because  God  has 
given  us  more  than  any  other  nation,  and  if  in  arrogance  and  in  pride 
we  turn  aside  from  the  Father  of  us  all,  and  in  our  carelessness  and 
indifference  towards  sacred  things  we  spend  our  lives  for  the  things 
of  this  world,  it  will  not  be  very  long  until  the  chastening  hand  of  an 
all-wise  Father  may  come  upon  us  as  a  nation,  and  we  be  counted  as 
the  nations  of  the  past,  among  those  that  have  withered  away.  I  pray 
that  we  may  be  worthy  of  our  heritage,  that  the  example  of  the  members 
of  this  Church  in  every  nation  where  they  live,  may  be  such  that  others 
observing  their  good  works  may  be  constrained  to  glorify  our  Father 
in  heaven.  How  I  pray  that  we  as  the  servants  of  the  Lord  may  have 
charity  for  mankind,  may  have  patience  with  those  who  err,  and  in 
kindness  and  love  go  forward  teaching  the  simple  principles  of  the 
gospel  of  our  Lord  to  the  blessing  of  every  soul  with  whom  we  come 
in  contact. 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  raised  up  in  this  latter-day  to  bring  again  the 
gospel  of  our  Lord.  I  know  that  the  authority  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
is  upon  the  earth  for  the  blessing  of  mankind,  not  to  make  those  who 
receive  that  authority  arrogant,  but  to  make  them  humble ;  not  to  make 
those  who  have  received  special  privileges  feel  that  they  are  greater  than 
others,  but  to  make  us  humble  in  our  souls,  prayerful  in  our  hearts,  and 
considerate  of  all  men  in  all  that  we  do,  and  thus  exemplify  by  upright 
lives  that  which  our  Heavenly  Father  desires  us  to  teach. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


95 


I  know  that  if  we  will  serve  God,  if  we  will  keep  his  command- 
ments, if  we  will  honor  the  priesthood  that  has  been  conferred  upon  us, 
if  we  will  sustain  those  whom  he  has  called  to  preside  over  us,  with  faith 
and  devotion,  when  the  time  shall  come  for  us  to  go  hence  we  will  find 
our  names  written  in  the  Lamb's  Book  of  Life,  and  we  will  receive  at 
the  hands  of  the  Master  of  heaven  and  earth  that  glorious  welcome 
home:  "Well  done  thou  good  and  faithful  servant,  thou  hast  been 
faithful  in  a  few  things  ;  I  will  make  thee  ruler  over  many  things.  Enter 
into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord."  And  I  bear  witness  of  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

One  of  the  tests  of  worth  is  the  test  of  time.  Whatever  has  been 
tried  over  a  long  period  of  time  and  not  found  wanting  is  worthy  of  our 
consideration.  I  have  observed  with  deep  satisfaction  that  since  the 
opening  remarks  of  President  Grant  the  speakers  of  this  conference 
have  reverted  to  the  fundamentals,  those  principles  which  have  long 
been  in  force  and  effect,  and  which  lie  at  the  very  basis  of  our  theology 
and  our  philosophy.  I  sincerely  trust  that  I  may  be  in  consonance  with 
these  thoughts  and  expressions  as  I  enter  a  plea  for  reverence  for  God, 
for  sacred  places,  for  sacred  establishments  and  institutions. 

Some  one  has  said  that  the  national  characteristic  of  America  is 
lawlessness.  It  is  a  terrible  indictment.  I  hope  that  it  is  not  warranted. 
Whether  it  be  so  or  not,  we  are  all  persuaded  that  there  is  too  much  of 
flippancy ;  there  is  too  little  serious  consideration  and  respect  for  estab- 
lished institutions  and  for  worthy  practices  which  have  been  tried  and 
proven  over  a  period  of  many  years. 

REVERENCE  FOR  GOD 

I  am  one  who  believes  that  morality  and  righteousness  have  their 
inception  and  bases  in  religion.  I  believe  that  God  is  the  author  of  all 
good,  and  that  there  is  no  good  which  emanates  from  any  source  in 
this  world  other  than  from  our  Father  and  our  God.  Respect  and 
reverence  for  his  holy  name  are  essential  to  spiritual  growth  and  de- 
velopment, and  in  my  judgment  they  are  essential  to  a  proper  attitude 
toward  all  institutions  of  society,  all  our  relationships  and  everything 
that  is  worth  while  in  this  life.  No  man  can  be  disrespectful  of  Deity 
and  have  in  his  heart  the  proper  attitude  toward  the  creations  of  Deity. 
A  man  who  properly  understands  his  relationship  to  God  and  the  endow- 
ments which  he  has  received  from  the  Creator,  will  be  filled  with  rever- 
ence and  thanksgiving.  After  all,  reverence  is  an  attitude  which  shows 
itself  in  a  deferential  behavior. 

REVERENTIAL  RESPECT  FOR  THE  BODY  OF  MAN 

God  has  given  us  everything  we  have  in  life.  He  has  made  it 
possible  for  us  to  live  in  mortality.  It  is  by  reason  of  his  beneficence 
that  we  enjoy  our  very  bodies.   We  who  believe  in  the  gospel  know  that 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


God  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  and  that  as  the  Father  of  our  spirits 
he  has  permitted  them  to  dwell  in  tabernacles  of  flesh.  These  taber- 
nacles assume  a  holy  significance,  and  a  man  with  such  a  conception 
cannot  pollute  or  defile  his  body  without  offering  affront  to  God  who 
gave  it  to  him.  So  I  plead  first  for  a  more  reverential  respect  for  the 
body  of  man.  It  is  a  sacred  temple  wherein  dwells  our  eternal  spirit, 
and  it  is  entitled  to  our  utmost  deference  and  reverence.  If  we  could 
but  teach  the  youth  of  the  land  this  high  conception  that  has  come  to 
us,  they  would  be  more  loath  to  smoke  cigarettes,  to  take  liquor  into  their 
bodies,  and  those  other  poisonous  substances  which  tend  to  disintegrate 
and  render  less  efficient  and  less  pure  these  holy  tabernacles. 

THE  HOME  A  SACRED  INSTITUTION 

We  need  more  reverence  for  the  sacred  institution  of  home.  The 
home  is  a  religious  institution.  It  has  its  inception  in  religious  cere- 
mony, and  to  those  of  the  Church  who  understand  its  great  significance, 
it  constitutes  the  very  basis^  of  our  hope  of  exaltation  in  the  celestial 
life  to  come.  All  the  finest  of  its  products  are  spiritual.  It  is  indeed 
a  sacred  institution,  and  reverence  for  those  who  by  right  exercise 
authority  in  that  institution  in  my  judgment  is  indispensable  to  the 
inculcation  of  those  characteristics  and  attributes  which  are  'essential 
for  good  citizenship  in  the  country  and  a  proper  attitude  toward  God 
our  Father.  Boys  and  girls  who  refer  to  their  parents  as  "the  old  man" 
or  "the  old  woman"  are  taking  a  wrong  course  to  bring  them  into 
proper  attitude  toward  government,  society  and  religion.  There  are  old 
sayings  in  the  Bible  which  support  this  position: 

"Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother,  as  the  Lord  thy  God  hath  commanded 
thee,  that  thy  days  may  be  prolonged,  and  that  it  may  go  well  with  thee  in  the 
land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee." 

No  greater  commandment  ever  came  from  Sinai  than  that  one. 

"My  son,  keep  thy  father's  commandments  and  forsake  not  the  law  of  thy 
mother.  Bind  them  continually  upon  thine  heart,  and  tie  them  about  thy  neck. 
When  thou  goest  it  shall  lead  thee,  and  when  thou  sleepest  it  shall  keep  thee ;  and 
when  thou  awakest  it  shall  talk  with  thee." 

"A  wise  son  maketh  a  glad  father,  but  a  foolish  son  is  the  heaviness  of  his 
mother." 

Those  principles  have  been  tried ;  they  have  been  incorporated 
into  the  lives  of  great  peoples.  They  have  made  possible  the  establish- 
ment of  the  greatest  institution  of  society — the  home.  I  commend  them 
to  the  youth  of  the  land,  and  I  commend  them  to  parents.  I  sincerely 
trust  that  there  will  be  such  discipline,  such  loving,  kindly,  sympathetic 
discipline  in  the  home  that  there  will  be  proper  and  adequate  respect 
for  the  head  of  the  household.  No  good  woman  will  ever  begrudge 
to  her  husband  his  rightful  position  as  the  head  of  the  household,  and 
I  am  constrained  to  think  that  very  much  of  our  lack  of  respect,  much 
of  the  flippancy  and  lawlessness  arise  from  the  fact  that  there  is  no 
well  organized,  clearly  recognized  authority  in  the  home.  It  seems  now 
to  be  the  attitude  of  parents,  in  many  cases  at  least,  that  a  child  shall 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS  97 

have  the  liberty  and  privilege  of  doing  what  he  wants  to  do.  I  have, 
heard  many  a  parent  say :  "I  want  my  boy  to  do  what  he  wants  to  do." 
As  for  me  I  want  my  boy  to  do  what  he  ought  to  do.  I  hope  that  he 
will  want  to  do  what  he  ought  to  do.  So  much  of  license,  so  much  of 
so-called  liberty  prevails  that  boys  and  girls  are  not  constrained  as  I 
feel  that  they  should  be  constrained  in  sympathy  and  mercy  and  kindness 
to  take  the  proper  course  in  life.  I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  the  heads  of  our 
households  are  men  who  hold  the  priesthood  of  Almighty  God,  and  I 
know  of  no  place  or  no  institution  in  which  the  dignity,  the  power  and 
the  influence  of  the  priesthood  may  be  more  effectively  exercised  than 
in  the  institutions  of  our  homes. 

THE  SIN  OF  PROFANITY 

Men,  do  not  swear.  God  has  said  he  would  not  be  mocked.  "Thou 
shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain."  Perhaps  there 
are  few  things  that  tend  more  to  produce  an  irreverent  attitude  than 
this  pernicious,  vile  habit  of  profanity.  What  a  useless  thing  it  is. 
What  a  defilement  it  is  of  the  pure  language  which  we  have.  I  plead 
with  men  everywhere  not  to  use  the  name  of  God  in  vain.  I  do  not 
see  how  a  man  can  love  God  and  damn  him  any  more  than  he  could 
love  his  wife  and  damn  her.  We  shall  tear  down  the  respect  of  the 
youth  of  the  land  for  the  name  of  Deity  if  we  use  that  name  in  pro- 
fanity.  We  read  the  words  of  the  Savior : 

"Again,  ye  have  heard  that  it  hath  been  said  by  them  of  old  time,  Thou  shalt 
not  foreswear  thyself,  but  shalt  perform  unto  the  Lord  thine  oaths :  but  I  say 
unto  you,  Swear  not  at  all." 

When  men  have  the  knowledge  that  we  possess  and  they  blaspheme 
the  name  of  God,  I  fear  for  the  penalty  that  may  accrue  from  that  sin. 
God  help  us  to  speak  pure  English,  to  control  our  tempers,  and  to  set 
an  example  in  that  respect  worthy  of  the  emulation  of  our  juniors. 
Men  of  the  world  blaspheme — I  sometimes  feel  a  degree  of  charity 
toward  them — in  ignorance  of  that  which  they  do.    It  is  not  so  with  us. 

RESPECT  FOR  LAW 

Respect  for  the  law  is  an  old  theme.  It  is  commonly  brought  to 
our  attention  these  days.  I  think  that  there  are  two  classes  of  people 
who  are  chiefly  responsible  for  the  lack  of  respect  which  exists  for  the 
law  and  for  established  institutions  of  government.  One  class  is  those 
who  hold  office  and  the  other  class  is  those  who  do  not.  I  don't  mean 
by  that  to  say  that  all  men  who  hold  office  are  responsible  for  the 
condition  which  exists ;  not  by  any  means ;  nor  are  all  citizens.  I  have 
always  felt  that  one  of  the  essential  things  to  breed  a  wholesome  respect 
and  regard  for  the  law  of  the  land  and  the  established  institutions  of 
government  is  the  honorable,  worthy  conduct  of  the  men  who  are  elected 
to  office,  and  whenever  any  man  who  is  entrusted  with  a  public  duty 
and  public  authority  abuses  his  office  and  attempts  to  reward  himself  at 
the  expense  of  his  government  and  the  citizenry,  and  does  not  conduct 
himself  with  that  dignity  and  propriety  which  is  becoming  one  invested 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  his  authority,  he  does  more  to  tear  down  respect  for  law  and 
authority  than  dozens  of  good  men  can  do  to  build  it  up.  I  want  to 
tell  you  that  the  youth  of  the  land  are  wise  in  their  day  and  generation. 
They  are  sophisticated,  they  are  observant,  and  when  they  see  men 
plead  in  fiery  oratorical  fashion  for  the  support  of  the  Constitution 
and  in  their  grandiloquence  wildly  protest  allegiance  to  the  flag  of 
the  country,  and  then  come  to  know  that  those  same  men  are  grafters, 
corrupt  in  office,  they  at  once  lose  regard  for  the  institutions  of  govern- 
ment and  for  the  officials  who  stand  at  the  head  of  government.  And 
too  on  the  part  of  the  citizenry :  Men  who  support  such  men,  men  who 
go  around  campaigning  for  them  and  men  who  become  the  bene- 
ficiaries of  their  dishonest  practices,  are  likewise  doing  more  to  tear 
down  that  attitude  which  is  essential  to  the  preservation  of  good  govern- 
ment than  thousands  of  good  people  can  do  to  sustain  it.  It  takes 
honor,  real  genuine  integrity,  in  order  to  beget  a  respect  for  law  and 
for  her  institutions.  It  is  such  people  who  today  are  setting  at  naught 
the  laws  of  the  country,  and  such  public  officers  who  with  seeming 
ease  of  conscience  are  failing  to  observe  their  oaths,  who  are  sowing 
the  seeds  which  may  mature  some  time  in  the  violence  of  rebellion  and 
revolt  against  the  great  principles  of  equity  and  liberty  and  justice 
which  lie  at  the  foundation  of  our  beneficent  government.  It  hurts  me, 
it  grieves  me  every  time  I  see  men  of  influence  violate  any  ordinance, 
any  statue,  any  law  which  has  been  passed  and  established  by  proper 
authority  in  this  country.  Enough  has  been  said  in  this  conference 
on  that  subject.  I  here  pronounce  the  recognition  of  those  laws  and 
their  observance  as  indispensable  to  the  creation  and  maintenance  of 
reverence  and  respect  for  the  Constitution  and  for  the  established  orders 
of  society. 

THE  FATHERHOOD  OF  GOD 

Reverence  for  God,  as  I  said  in  the  beginning,  is  the  fundamental 
thing.  Reverence  for  God  comes  of  love  for  God,  but  love  of  God 
arises  out  of  faith  in  him,  and  out  of  an  understanding  of  his  greatness, 
his  majesty,  his  goodness,  his  kindness  and  his  mercy.  My  God  is  my 
Father,  my  eternal  parent,  the  giver  of  every  good  gift  to  me,  the 
conservator  of  my  life,  my  relationships,  my  family,  my  blessing.  Do 
I  revere  him?  I  bow  at  his  feet.  I  humble  myself  in  sheer  praise  and 
thanksgiving  and  gratitude  for  the  manifestations  of  all  his  kindness  to 
me.  There  is  no  question  about  reverence  because  the  seed  and 
foundation  of  reverence  are  in  my  philosophy,  in  my  testimony,  in  my 
soul  and  in  my  heart.  So  it  is  essential  that  the  gospel  of  Christ  be 
preached  to  the  people  of  the  world  that  they  understand  this  fatherhood 
of  God,  that  they  understand  that  all  the  progress  made  in  this  life 
is  by  and  with  his  consent  and  his  guidance. 

God  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  his  holy  in- 
stitutions, our  places  of  worship,  our  homes,  the  sacred  ordinances  of 
the  gospel,  our  temples,  our  families,  old  age,  all  sacred  things  may 
receive  our  deference,  our  undying  respect  and  our  reverence,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  99 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Truth  does  not  change ;  it  is  immutable.  This  statement  has  been 
made  in  substance  several  times  during  this  conference;  the  thought 
is  not  original.  It  has  come  down  through  the  centuries  from  the 
beginning,  for  even  in  the  days  of  Adam  it  was  made  known  by 
revelation.  Truth  never  grows  old,  it  is  always  new,  because  it  is  that 
which  remains  when  all  else  passes  away. 

The  Lord  has  given  to  the  Church  the  best  definition  of  truth  that 
I  have  ever  heard.  We  find  it  in  one  of  the  revelations :  "And  truth 
is  knowledge  of  things  as  they  are,  and  as  they  were,  and  as  they  are 
to  come."   In  other  words  truth  is  that  which  endures  forever. 

A  WORLD  OF  CHANGE 

We  live  in  a  world  of  change.  Men  are  born  into  this  world 
helpless  infants.  They  grow  and  reach  maturity ;  they  gain  knowledge 
and  experience,  then  become  old  and  die.  The  earth  itself  is  growing 
old  and  changing  because  it  too  is  mortal,  as  man  is  mortal  upon  its 
face.  All  things  on  the  earth  must  pass  away.  The  earth  also  shall 
pass  away,  for  it  is  decreed  that  it  shall  die.  The  whole  universe,  that 
is  the  material  universe  which  we  see,  is  changing.  This  truth  men  of 
science  have  discovered  through  their  research.  Not  only  this  earth 
and  our  solar  system  but  the  stars  of  the  heavens  are  changing,  if  we 
may  rely  on  the  information  which  comes  to  us.  In  fact  the  Lord  has 
said  that  they  shall  pass  away,  and  these  changes  are  going  on  eternally; 
"And  as  one  earth  shall  pass  away,  and  the  heavens  thereof  even  so 
shall  another  come;  and  there  is  no  end  to  my  works,  neither  to  my 
words,"  said  the  Lord. 

THE  PLAN  OF  ETERNAL  PROGRESS 

In  observing  these  changes  throughout  all  nature  a  man  may  be 
led  to  conclude,  without  the  aid  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  divine 
revelation,  that  death  is  the  end  of  all  things ;  that  the  universe  itself 
shall  pass  away  and  cease  to  be ;  but  this  is  not  the  case.  These  things 
which  we  see  changing,  growing  old  and  dying,  do  not  come  to  their  end. 
Death  is  not  the  end,  neither  of  man  nor  of  the  earth,  nor  of  the, 
elements  of  which  the  earth  is  composed;  neither  of  the  material 
universe.  The  Lord  created  all  things  for  a  purpose.  Nothing  has 
he  created  to  be  destroyed,  but  that  all  things  might  endure  forever. 
This  mortal  condition  with  all  its  changes  and  eventually  death,  is  part, 
of  the  great  plan  of  eternal  progress.  As  it  has  been  pointed  out,  we 
lived,  before  we  came  here,  in  the  spirit  existence  and  in  the  presence 
of  God.  In  his  presence  we  walked  by  sight,  but  now  we  are  called 
upon  to  walk  by  faith  and  pass  through  the  various  vicissitudes  of  life, 
gaining  the  experiences  which  could  come  to  us  only  through  this  mortal 
probation.  After  death  we  pass  on  eventually  through  the  resurrection! 
and  receive  the  fulness  of  life  in  the  mansions  which  are  prepared  by 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


our  Father.  Death  is  a  part  of  the  great  plan  of  life,  for  after  the 
resurrection  comes  immortality. 

UNIVERSAL  SALVATION 

In  one  of  the  revelations  to  Joseph  Smith  the  Lord  said  to  the 
Church  and  to  all  who  are  willing  to  receive  it : 

"And  again,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you  that  when  the  thousand  years 
are  ended,  and  men  again  begin  to  deny  their  God,  then  will  I  spare  the 
earth  but  for  a  little  season." 

The  Lord  here  is  speaking  of  his  second  coming,  of  the  millennial 
reign  which  shall  be  followed  by  a  shdrt  period  of  wickedness  and 
then  the  end.   The  revelation  continues : 

"And  the  end  shall  come,  and  the  heaven  and  the  earth  shall  be  consumed 
and  pass  away,  and  there  shall  be  a  new  heaven  and  a  new  earth." 

This  does  not  mean  that  this  earth  shall  pass  away  and  another 
take  its  place,  and  the  heaven  thereof  shall  pass  away,  and  another 
heaven  take  its  place,  but  that  the  earth  and  its  heaven  shall,  after 
passing  away  through  death,  be  renewed  again  in  immortality.  This 
earth  is  living  and  must  die,  but  since  it  keeps  the  law  it  shall  be  restored 
through  the  resurrection  by  which  it  shall  become  celestialized  and 
the  abode  of  celestial  beings.  The  next  verse  of  this  revelation  ex- 
plains this  as  follows : 

"For  all  old  things  shall  pass  away,  and  all  things  shall  become  new,  even 
the  heaven  and  the  earth,  and  all  the  fulness  thereof,  both  men  and  beasts,  the 
fowls  of  the  air,  and  the  fishes  of  the  sea; 

"And  not  one  hair,  neither  mote,  shall  be  lost,  for  it  is  the  workmanship 
of  mine  hand." 

So  we  see  that  the  Lord  intends  to  save,  not  only  the  earth  and 
the  heavens,  not  only  man  who  dwells  upon  the  earth,  but  all  things 
which  he  has  created.  The  animals,  the  fishes  of  the  sea,  the  fowls 
of  the  air,  as  well  as  man,  are  to  be  re-created,  or  renewed,  through 
the  resurrection,  for  they  too  are  living  souls. 

DIVINE  GUIDANCE  NECESSARY 

Men,  when  they  observe  conditions  upon  the  face  of  the  earth — 
and  our  knowledge  is  largely  limited  to  our  observations  through  the 
aid  of  our  natural  faculties — are  in  danger  of  reaching  false  con- 
clusions. It  is  not  enough  that  men  be  guided  by  reason  and  by 
what  they  may  discover  through  the  natural  faculties  of  the  mortal 
body,  but  also  by  the  guidance  of  the  Lord.  We  are  all  dependent  upon 
divine  revelation  to  know  the  truth  concerning  the  destiny  of  man.  Man 
by  searching  cannot  find  out  God  without  the  divine  direction.  The 
mistake  made  by  many  who  seek  for  truth  through  the  channels  of 
scientific  research  is  that  they  depend  solely  upon  their  own  natural 
ability  to  discover,  without  taking  God  into  account  and  seeking  for 
his  direction.    The  fulness  of  truth  can  never  be  obtained  by  the  man 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  101 


who  eliminates  God  and  divine  guidance  from  his  understanding.  I 
was  informed  one  time  by  one  of  our  scientific  brethren  that  the 
scientist  does  not  take  God  into  account  in  making  his  investigations,  but 
endeavors  to  find  truth  by  research  and  the  aid  of  his  natural  faculties. 
I  answered  him  by  saying,  "More  the  pity,  for  if  they  would  only  go 
before  the  Lord  and  seek  him  through  his  Spirit  and  ask  him  for  his 
guidance,  they  would  be  more  likely  to  find  the  truth  for  which  they  are 
seeking."  That  they  discover  many  truths  is  true,  but  divine  guid- 
ance, the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  the  knowledge  that  comes  through 
revelation,  would  save  them  from  falling  into  many  errors  and  reaching 
false  conclusions.  I  believe  it  to  be  a  mistake  to  search  for  truth  inde- 
pendently of  what  the  Lord  has  given  through  revelation  to  his  servants 
the  prophets. 

A  FULNESS  OF  TRUTH 

Now  I  must  not  take  more  time,  but  let  me  read  to  you  one  more 
expression  coming  to  us  through  revelation  from  the  Lord : 

"The  Spirit  of  truth  is  of  God.  I  am  the  Spirit  of  truth,  and  John  bore 
record  of  me,  saying :    He  received  a  fulness  of  truth,  yea,  even  of  all  truth ; 

"And  no  man  receiveth  a  fulness  unless  he  keepeth  his  commandments. 

"He  that  keepeth  his  commandments  receiveth  truth  and  light,  until  he  is 
glorified  in  truth  and  knoweth  all  things." 

I  have  full  confidence  in  this  word  of  the  Lord.  Surely  the 
Spirit  of  truth  will  be  bestowed  upon  all  who  seek  through  the  proper 
channels  and  in  obedience  to  the  proper  laws.  There  is  no  other  way. 
by  which  the  fulness  of  truth  may  be  known.  Man,  in  and  of  himself, 
cannot  find  it ;  he  may  be  "ever  learning,  and  never  able  to  come  to 
the  knowledge  of  the  truth." 

The  Lord  has  held  in  reserve  for  those  who  obey  him  this  great 
blessing  of  the  fulness  of  truth,  and  through  obedience  it  is  received  and 
in  no  other  way.  So  with  all  their  searching,  with  all  their  delving 
into  the  earth  and  examining  of  the  heavens,  man  cannot  discover 
the  fulness  of  truth  without  submission  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
and  placing  their  lives  in  harmony  with  the  Holy  Spirit  and  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  There  is  no  other  way 
in  which  all  truth  may  be  obtained.  It  is  the  destiny  of  those  who  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  through  their  obedience,  to  gain  all 
truth.  The  Lord  has  spoken  it.  So  I  understand  the  words  spoken  by 
the  Savior  in  this  revelation  and  also  to  his  disciples  wherein  he  said : 
"But  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteousness;  and 
all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you."  And  again,  in  the  same 
sermon:  "Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in 
heaven  is  perfect." 

May  we  walk  in  the  light  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  let 
our  hearts  be  so  touched  by  the  Spirit  of  truth  that  we  shall  turn 
neither  to  )the  right  hand  nor  to  the  left  in  our  investigations,  but 
pursue  a  steady  course,  seeking  always  the  light  which  comes  from 
the  Lord.    Then  will  we  become  teachers  of  men  in  truth  and  able  to 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


declare  the  things  of  God.  So  I  pray  in  the  name  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

There  are  a  number  of  visitors  here  this  morning  who  have  come 
from  many  parts  of  the  world.  We  bid  you  welcome.  Though  you 
come  from  the  remote  parts  of  this  country  or  from  Asiatic  provinces, 
we  are  very  glad  that  you  are  here  to  join  us  in  the  worship  of  God. 
It  is  the  Sabbath  day  and  we  have  come  together  in  his  name. 

There  are  in  this  congregation  followers  of  Buddha  representatives 
of  one  of  the  oldest  religions  of  the  world.  We  bid  you  welcome  and 
you  can  add  your  understanding  to  ours.  One  of  your  great  sayings 
is:  "I  am  the  Goddess  of  Karma!  Thine  eyes,  mine  eyes  shall  meet 
in  the  end."  You  know  also  that  your  word  Karma  means  immanent 
justice.  Karma  is  the  immortal  entity,  which  man  should  follow. 
According  to  this  thought  man's  thoughts  build  his  character ;  his  deeds 
make  his  environment.  What  a  man  thinks,  so  he  becomes.  His 
qualities  and  natural  gifts  adhere  to  him  as  a  result  of  his  ideas.  Man  is 
responsible  for  all  that  he  is.  We  believe  this,  my  friends  from  India. 
We  are  endowed  with  free  will  to  work  out  our  destinies.  Man  is 
a  divine  creation,  and  he  is  able  to  set  himself  free  from  bondage. 

God  holds  us  responsible  for  our  thoughts  and  acts  in  this  life. 
We  bear  testimony  that  'Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the  Living  God, 
and  unto  him  all  must  come  eventually,  and  in  the  end  find  eternal 
life  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  May  God  bless  you  while  you  are  here  and 
protect  you  on  your  journey.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  gospel 
of  love.  You  are  his  children.  We  are  all  his  children,  and  in  an 
abiding  faith  in  him  will  we  find  our  salvation. 

There  was  recently  held  in  New  York  City  the  International  Con- 
gress of  Americanists  to  which  delegates  from  seventeen  nations  of  the 
world  came,  to  deliver  papers  and  discuss  the  Origin  and  History  of 
the  American  Indians,  Among  the  most  noted  scientists  to  take  part 
on  the  program  were  Dr.  Eugene  Q.  Oberhummer  of  the  Geographical 
Society  of  Vienna ;  Dr.  Jose  Medina  of  the  University  of  Chile ;  Dr. 
Max  Uhle  of  the  University  of  Ecuador;  Dr.  Louis  Cozaman 
of  the  University  of  Paris;  Dr.  Albrecht  Penck  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Berlin ;  Dr.  William  Yhalbitzer  of  the  Danish  Academy 
of  Science;  Dr.  Lidio  Cipriani  of  the  Italian  Museum  of  Anthropology; 
and  Dr.  Hugo  Obermaer  of  the  Royal  Academy  of  History,  Madrid. 
These  are  only  a  few  of  the  noted  archaeologists  of  the  world  who 
came  to  discuss  a  subject  that  is  interesting  to  every  Latter-day  Saint. 
Mexico  sent  three  delegates,  and  the  American  delegates  included  Dr. 
Alfred  M.  Tozer  of  the  American  Academy  of  Arts  and  Science;  Dr. 
John  M.  Cooper  of  the  Catholic  University;  and  Dr.  Walter  Hough 
of  the  Smithsonian  Institute  at  Washington.  Most  of  the  sessions 
were  held  at  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History  and  Columbia 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


103 


University.  I  had  the  honor  of  being  made  a  member  of  the  Congress, 
and  for  one  week,  I  listened  to  papers  given  by  these  scientists  on  this 
important  question. 

The  results  of  recent  scientific  researches  on  the  racial  resemblances 
of  the  American  and  Siberian  Eskimo  to  the  Indian ;  and  the  supposed 
kinship  between  the  American  Indian  and  'some  of  the  Asiatic  tribes 
by  Russian,  Scandinavian,  and  American  anthropologists  were  given. 
In  all  there  were  one  hundred  and  forty  papers  read  in  general  and 
departmental  meetings.  Dr.  A.  L.  Kreber  of  the  University  of  Cali- 
fornia discussed  the  subject  Cultural  Relations  Between  North  and 
South  America;  Dr.  Ales  Hrdlicka,  Migrations  from  Asia  to  America 
and  their  Tracers;  Dr.  J.  E.  Teeple  spoke  on  The  Factors  Which  May 
Lead  to  a  Correlation  of  Maya  and  Christian  Dates;  and  Dr.  Albrecht 
Penck  of  the  University  of  Berlin  gave  a  scholarly  and  elucidating  paper 
on  the  subject  When  did  the  Indians  Come  to  America?  These  are 
but  a  few  of  the  papers  that  were  given,  and  I  assure  you  that  to  me, 
they  opened  up  the  subject  of  the  history  of  the  American  Indians  as 
no  other  source  has  done  before.  I  know  what  you  all  wish  to  ask: 
Did  the  papers  or  discussion  show  or  indicate  anything  of  the 
authenticity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon? 

The  theory  that  prehistoric  American  cultures  reached  this  con- 
tinent from  Asia,  not  so  long  ago  receives  a  strong  recruit  in  the 
person  of  Dr.  Max  Uhle.  Unlike  many  theories  about  America's  for- 
gotten past,  Dr.  Uhle  knows  at  first  hand  the  material  of  which  he 
speaks.  It  makes  a  difference  whether  one  looks  at  the  picture  of  a 
bit  of  prehistoric  pottery  in  a  book  or  digs  the  jug  with  one's  own 
hand  out  of  some  ancient  grave.  Dr.  Uhle's  experiences  convince  him 
that  the  famous  ancient  civilizations  of  Central  America  and  Peru  took 
their  roots  in  Asia,  instead  of  growing  up  germlessly  on  American 
soil.  China  and  India  or  Mesopotamia,  he  believes,  may  have  been  the 
chief  original  sources. 

There  must  be  a  clear  distinction,  it  grows  every  year  more 
evident,  between  the  origins  of  America's  ancient  people  and  the 
sources  of  their  culture.  The  human  material  of  the  pre-Columbian 
societies  probably  came  from  Asia  by  way  of  Alaska,  the  orthodox 
route  long  accepted  for  the  American  Indians  and  fully  confirmed  by 
the  recent  investigations  of  Dr.  Ales  Hrdlicka.  This  journey  must 
have  taken  more  than  one  lifetime.  It  purged  and  refined  the  people 
far  more  severely  than  the  wanderings  of  the  Children  of  Israel  in 
the  Wilderness.  Among  many  social  belongings  abandoned  along  the 
route  seem  to  have  been  most  of  the  things  called  intellectual.  The 
men  and  women  who  peopled  America  arrived,  intellectually,  with  the 
clothes  they  stood  in. 

Yet  cultures  undeniably  high  soon  arose  among  indubitable  de- 
scendants of  this  migration.  One  theory,  still  prevalent  among  pre- 
historians  living  in  the  United  States,  believes  this  pre-Columbian  science 
and  technology  to  have  sprouted,  by  internal  energy,  from  societies 
founded  by  the  Alaskan  migrants.    Dr.  Uhle  urges  an  alternative  at 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


once  more  reasonable  and  more  romantic.  Occasional  cultured  mariners 
from  India,  China,  Japan  or  other  lands  may  have  landed,  he  believes, 
few  in  numbers,  but  full  of  ideas,  to  bring  to  the  rude  American 
societies,  already  purged  of  bodily  or  mental  weaklings  by  their  long 
migration,  just  the  hint  that  culture  was  possible.  Small  numerically 
as  this  source  of  inspiration  must  have  been,  it  may  conceivably  have 
been  the  seed  from  which  sprouted  the  great  achievements  of  Peru 
and  Central  America. 

These  men  of  the  Americanists'  Congress  are  some  of  the  greatest 
scholars  living,  and  they  are  but  blazing  the  trail  and  pioneering  into  this 
new  land  of  archaeology.  They  are  opening  up  a  new  country,  in  which 
will  be  able  to  follow  new  paths  of  study  and  behold  new  vistas  of 
truth.  What  archaeologists  have  done  for  the  Holy  Bible  in  the 
Holy  Land,  archaeologists  will  do  for  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  this  land 
of  America.  We  must  remember  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  not  a 
book,  but  a  library ;  the  product  not  of  one  mind  and  age,  but  of  many 
minds  and  ages.  It  is  a  record  of  God's  dealings  with  his  children 
at  various  times,  and  the  actions  of  those  peoples  in  the  many  problems 
that  arose  before  them.  Like  the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon  "is  a  record 
of  the  unfolding  of  the  divine  revelation  to  a  remarkable  race  of  people." 
This  people  we  believe  were  the  forebears  of  the  American  Indians. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  history  of  Hebraic  institutions  of  the 
American  Continent  as  well  as  an  exposition  of  Judaism.  Centuries 
before  Christ  the  Jaredites  and  Nephites  came  to  America,  the 
former  at  the  time  of  the  tower  of  Babel  and  the  latter  from  Jerusalem. 
According  to  the  Book  of  Mormon  one  Lehi  and  his  family  were 
colonized  in  this  New  World  about  600  B.  C.  They  had  inherited  all 
the  old  traditions  of  the  Hebraic  people,  and  in  their  teachings  one 
finds  the  same  beliefs  and  ideals  concerning  God  and  the  righteous 
laws  of  life  as  one  finds  in  the  writings  of  Isaiah,  Moses,  Jeremiah, 
etc.  Religious,  social  and  economic  life  lie  at  the  very  root  of  the 
story  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The  fundamentals  of  the  old  religion 
of  the  Jews  are  given ;  as  well  as  a  clear  explanation  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  for  according  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  Christ  visited 
the  people  on  this  continent  after  his  resurrection.  Judaism  is  a  re- 
ligious system.  Its  fundamental  message  concerns  the  One  and  Holy 
God  and  one  undivided  humanity,  with  a  world-uniting  Messianic 
goal.  It  is  a  message  entrusted  by  divine  revelation  to  the  Jewish 
people.  Judaism  teaches  that  man  is  created  in  the  image  of  God, 
and  its  teaching  of  righteousness  is  the  true  pathway  of  life.  All 
these  doctrines  are  likewise  set  forth  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  written 
by  divinely  inspired  prophets.  Jewish  writers  tell  us  that  faith  to  the 
Jew  is  firm  reliance  on  God  and  adherence  to  him.  Hence  it  stresses 
both  faith  and  faithfulness.  The  second  fundamental  of  Jewish  faith 
is  divine  revelation ;  and  the  third  is  belief  in  a  Moral  Government 
of  the  World,  which  manifests  itself  in  the  reward  of  good  and  the 
punishment  of  evil.  The  fourth  great  doctrine  of  Judaism  is  belief 
in  the  resurrection  of  the  dead.    Judaism  holds  that  the  spirit  of  man 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


105 


comes  from  God  unsullied  by  inherent  sin  or  evil.  Thus  man  through 
the  exercise  of  his  free  will  is  capable  of  attaining  an  ever  greater 
perfection,  by  unfolding  and  developing  to  a  higher  degree  his  mental, 
moral,  and  spiritual  powers. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  idea  of  immortality  is  the  Christian  idea. 
The  Prophet  Alma  says:  "Behold,  there  is  a  time  appointed  that 
all  shall  come  forth  from  the  dead.  Now  when  this  time  cometh,  no 
one  knows;  but  God  knoweth  the  time  which  is  appointed.  *  *  * 
Behold,  it  has  been  made  known  unto  me  by  an  angel,  that  the  spirits  of 
all  men,  as  soon  as  they  are  departed  from  this  mortal  body  *  *  * 
whether  they  be  good  or  evil,  are  taken  home  to  that  God  who  gave 
them.  *  *  *  Then  shall  the  righteous  shine  forth  in  the  king- 
dom of  God.  *  *  *  The  one  raised  to  happiness  according  to  his 
desires  of  happiness;  or  good  according  to  his  desires  of  good;  and 
the  other  to  evil  according  to  his  desires  of  evil." 

The  Book  of  Mormon  idea  is  based  on  a  belief  in  a  supreme 
personal  being,  who  has  revealed  himself  in  the  beauty  and  order  of 
the  world  to  saints  and  prophets,  and  finally  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  It 
sets  forth  the  doctrine  of  man  as  a  self-conscious  moral  being,  and  makes 
him  kin  to  God.  Man  is  a  part  of  the  physical  world,  in  which  he  works 
out  the  purposes  of  God  as  a  free  agent  within  the  limits  of  a  finite 
being.  But  he  belongs  essentially  to  the  spiritual,  and  the  spirit  of 
man  and  the  Spirit  of  God  have  relations  of  dependency  and  obligations, 
it  is  in  this  relationship  to  God,  who  is  life,  that  the  Christian  idea  of 
immortality  has  its  source  and  inspiration.  The  Prophet  Alma  has 
made  it  clear  that  immortality  is  existence  with  God,  fellowship  with 
him,  which  creates  the  whole  interest  in  a  future  life.  "We  shall  be 
like  him,  for  we  shall  see  him  even  as  he  is."  It  has  God  first  in  mind, 
and  fellowship  implies  a  likeness  of  character.  The  Book  of  Mormon 
shows  so  distinctly  that  Christianity  is  more  or  less  the  heir  of 
Judaism  or  the  Hebrew  religion,  and  teaches  that  profound  sense  of 
sin  which  recognizes  that  it  means  separation  from  God.  Its  ideal 
is  to  be  perfect  "even  as  your  Father  in  heaven  is  perfect." 

It  must  not  be  supposed  that  all  ideas  of  immortality  are  the  same. 
The  Egyptian  conceptions  were  far  different  from  the  Hebraic;  so 
were  the  Greek  views  and  the  Indian  thought.  This  is  clearly  shown  by 
a  reading  of  the  book  so  well  edited  by  the  Rev.  Sir  James  Marchant 
of  Oxford.  For  example,  the  Greek  mind  held  that  Gods  and  men  are 
the  same  in  birth,  and  evil  is  metaphysical  and  not  ethical.  To  the 
Christian,  sin  is  not  so  much  a  breach  of  the  law  as  a  violation  of  love. 
The  filial  relation  to  God  is  everything  to  Christianity.  So  the  Prophet 
Alma  taught  clearly  that  immortality  is  a  restoration  to  the  fellow- 
ship of  God  through  Jesus  Christ.  It  all  requires  the  imparting  of  a 
new  principle  of  action,  or  the  possession  of  a  new  life  giving  power,  a 
kind  of  new  birth,  in  short,  a  Christ  likeness.  *  *  *  "He  that 
believeth  on  the  Son  hath  eternal  life,  and  is  passing  on  to  fulness  of 
life,  to  'more  abundance.'  "  Immortality  therefore  to  the  Christian 
sense  and  Book  of  Mormon  meaning  is  not  due  to  any  metaphysical 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


quality  of  the  soul,  but  to  a  personal  relationship  to  God,  "Because  as 
1  live,  ye  shall  also  live." 

Like  the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon  shows  God  at  work  in  the 
life  of  the  human  race.  Its  supreme  revelation  is  of  the  human  heart, 
and  life  touched  by  the  Spirit  of  God.  Its  power  and  value  is  this,  and 
it  is  from  beginning  to  end  a  book  of  life.  It  becomes  in  this  light, 
colorful,  gripping,  vivid,  laying  its  hold  on  our  imaginations  and  our 
souls.    It  inspires,  it  lifts  our  minds  to  God,  and  herein  is  its  power. 

To  your  question  then :  Archaeology  and  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
Man  has  brought  to  light  great  cities  and  temples  in  this  America. 
Statues,  pottery,  buildings,  and  jewelry  are  discovered  almost  daily,  and 
today,  America  is  considered  one  of  the  richest  fields  of  the  world  for 
the  student  of  archaeology.  Not  yet  have  scholars  found  definite 
remains  or  ruins  that  coincide  with  Book  of  Mormon  history.  Yet  the 
scientist,  the  archaeologist  is  discovering  remains  that  not  only  indicate 
that  in  the  not  far  distant  future  may  be  clearly  related  to  Book  of 
Mormon  history,  but  Semitic  origins  will  be  found  in  this  land,  and 
the  institutions  so  well  described  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  will  be 
made  clearer  by  archaeologists,  as  they  have  done  in  Mesopotamia, 
Palestine,  and  Egypt  by  finding  remains  and  ruins  that  absolutely 
verify  Biblical  history  and  life. 

Among  the  Indians  of  our  continent,  both  north  and  south,  we  have 
traditions  as  to  their  lives  in  the  past,  and  according  to  the  light  of 
sociology  that  has  recently  been  given  by  one  of  our  leading  socioligists, 
no  legend  or  myth  or  tradition  comes  down  to  us  from  the  remote 
past,  but  what  it  shows  something  of  the  belief  and  the  lives  of  the 
people  who  gave  it.  So  we  have  a  great  work  to  perform  among  these 
American  Indians.  There  are  some  three  hundred  thousand  of  them 
in  the  United  States  at  the  present  time,  and  over  three  thousand  in 
the  State  of  Utah  alone.  They  have  had  fine  conceptions  of  life,  and  if 
the  truth  of  God,  the  principles  of  the  saving  grace  of  Christ  can  be 
carried  to  them  as  they  are  elucidated  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  I  firmly 
believe  that  the  American  Indians,  the  aborigines  of  this  continent  will 
yet  be  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  An  old  song  of  the 
Pawnees  is  a  song  to  the  new  day. 

"Day  is  here !    Day  is  here,  is  here ! 
Arise,  my  son,  lift  thine  eyes, 
Day  is  here !  ,  Day  is  here,  is  here ! 
Day  is  here !    Day  is  here,  is  here ! 
Look  up,  my  son,  and  see  the  day. 
Day  is  here!    Day  is  here,  is  here!" 

May  we  become  more  interested  in  the  American  Indian  and  in 
his  cause,  I  hope  and  pray.  May  the  government  of  the  United 
States  come  to  a  fuller  realization  of  how  unjustly  he  has  sometimes 
been  treated  in  the  past,  and  that  from  now  on  justice  may  come  to 
this  man,  to  these  people;  and  that  God  may  inspire  us  to  carry 
the  message  of  salvation  to  them  all,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


107 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

I  desire  to  read  a  poem  recently  discovered  among  the  writings 
of  our  gifted  hymn  writer,  Elder  Parley  P.  Pratt : 

"Truth  eternal,  truth  divine! 
In  thine  ancient  fulness  shine; 
Burst  the  fetters  of  the  mind 
From  the  millions  of  mankind, 
Set  the  longing  nations  free, 
Give  the  world  a  jubilee. 

"Ages  past  have  owned  thy  sway, 
Prophets  hailed  thy  joyful  day; 
In  thy  cause  in  days  of  yore 
Battle-fields  were  stained  with  gore, 
Saints  and  seers  and  heroes  fought, 
Men  and  angels  wonders  wrought. 

''Truth  again  restored  to  earth, 
Opened  with  a  prophet's  birth, 
Priests  of  heaven's  royal  line, 
Bearing  keys  of  truth  divine, 
Wide  o'er  earth  the  tidings  flew, 
Truth  into  a  kingdom  grew. 

"Truth  shall  triumph  as  the  light 
Chases  far  the  misty  night, 
Hurl  the  tyrant  from  his  throne, 
Conquer  death,  and  reign  alone, 
Endless  ages  own  its  sway, 
Clad  in  everlasting  day." 

TRUTH  WILL  PREVAIL 

I  desire  in  this  connection  to  read  the  following  verses  from  the 
88th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  which  is  governed  by  law  is  also 
preserved  by  law  and  perfected  and  sanctified  by  the  same. 

"That  which  breaketh  a  law,  and  abideth  not  by  law,  but  seeketh  to  become 
a  law  unto  itself,  and  willeth  to  abide  in  sin,  and  altogether  abideth  in  sin, 
cannot  be  sanctified  by  law,  neither  by  mercy,  justice,  nor  judgment.  Therefore, 
they  must  remain  filthy  still." 

I  desire  to  add,  in  connection  with  these  inspired  utterances,  a 
word  of  warning  and  testimony  in  connection  with  that  which  has 
been  borne  by  my  brethren  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  assembled  in 
conference  this  morning.  I  am  happy  to  find  myself  in  full  accord 
with  all  that  has  been  expressed.  But  I  do  feel  in  my  soul  that  we 
have  reached  the  day  spoken  of  by  the  prophets  of  old,  and  by  the 
Lord  himself  in  this  generation,  when  everything  will  be  shaken  that 
can  be  shaken,  and  nothing  shall  remain  except  that  which  is  truth 
and  is  established  by  the  Lord.  It  was  easy,  in  the  dark  ages,  for  a 
glimmer  of  truth  to  attract  the  attention  of  men  who  were  in  such  dense 
darkness,  but  it  is  not  easy  for  a  small  glimmer  of  truth  to  attract 
attention  in  an  age  when  the  blaze  of  light  is  so  resplendent  as  to  be 
seen  everywhere. 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


A  TESTING  TIME 

More  light  and  knowledge  has  come  to  the  earth  in  this  genera- 
tion than  in  all  ages  before — and  a  religion  that  can  attract  the 
attention  of  men  and  can  stand  the  scrutiny  of  investigation  and  shine 
in  the  presence  of  light  such  as  the  world  enjoys  today,  is  an  unusual 
religion.  There  is  nothing  so  sacred,  nor  ancient,  but  must  meet  the 
sifting  process  that  presently  will  be  in  operation.  For  it  is  the  age 
when  everything  is  being  questioned.  How  has  Mormonism  stood? 
How  will  it  stand  in  this  period  of  testing?  It  has  stood  the  trials 
of  the  past.  It  stands  today  vindicated  in  its  teachings,  even  in  the 
presence  of  science,  learning,  knowledge  and  history.  It  will  stand 
in  the  future. 

I  recognize  the  foundation  upon  which  it  has  been  established  as 
the  truth,  and  how  my  heart  grows  in  faith,  my  understanding  increases 
and  my  soul  is  filled  with  joy  to  witness  the  strength  and  power  of 
this  Church,  even  in  this  age  of  doubt  and  of  uncertainty. 

A  spirit  of  doubt  and  uncertainty  is  creeping  over  the  faith  of 
the  world.  We  were  told  in  an  address  by  an  eminent  minister  at  a 
gathering  of  religionists  in  California  during  this  last  summer,  that 
sixty  per  cent  of  the  people  of  the  United  States  have  no  religious 
affiliation;  that  twenty-five  million  young  people  in  the  United  States 
are  growing  up  without  any  religious  teaching. 

I  confess  to  you  that  it  is  also  a  time  when  institutions  that  God 
established,  that  are  political,  will  be  shaken,  but,  thank  the  Lord,  they 
will  stand,  for  they  too  are  the  truth. 

our  nation's  security 

The  Prophet  Joseph  told  us  that  he  saw  the  day  when  even  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  would  be  torn  and  hang  as  by  a 
thread.  But,  thank  the  Lord,  the  thread  did  not  break.  He  saw  the 
day  when  this  people  would  be  a  balance  of  power  to  come  to  its 
defense.  The  Book  of  Mormon  prophecies  concerning  the  future  of 
America  have  been  referred  to  in  our  hearing  during  this  conference, 
wherein  it  is  stated  that  this  nation,  though  it  becomes  a  mighty  nation, 
still  it  can  stand  in  security  here  only  as  it  serves  the  God  of  this  land. 
That  conception  was  in  the  hearts  of  the  men  who  founded  America. 

I  was  recently  looking  over  some  of  the  utterances  of  our  fathers 
who  established  these  glorious  institutions.  One  of  the  great  states- 
men of  our  land,  Webster,  jsaid : 

"If  we  abide  by  the  principles  taught  in  the  Bible,  our  country  will  go  on 
prospering  and  to  prosper,  but  if  we  or  our  posterity  neglect  its  instructions 
and  authority,  no  man  can  tell  how  suddenly  catastrophe  may  overwhelm  us 
and  bury  all  our  glory  in  profound  obscurity." 

Washington  in  his  farewell  address  said : 

"Let  it  simply  be  asked,  Where  is  the  security  for  property,  for  reputation, 
for  life,  if  the  sense  of  religious  obligation  desert  the  oaths,  which  are  the 
instruments  of  investigation  in  courts  of  justice?  And  let  us  with  caution 
indulge  the  supposition  that  morality  can  be  maintained  without  religion.  What- 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


109 


ever  may  be  conceded  to  the  influence  of  refined  education  on  minds  of  peculiar 
structure,  reason  and  experience  both  forbid  us  to  expect  that  national  morality 
can  prevail  in  exclusion  of  religious  principle." 

When  Benjamin  Franklin,  eighty  years  of  age,  stood  before  the 
Congress  of  the  United  States,  trying  to  produce  an  instrument  on  which 
they  could  frame  the  Constitution,  and  they  being  about  to  abandon  that 
effort,  he  made  this  appeal  which  won  these  men  to  God  and  to  the 
accomplishment  of  the  great  purpose  of  establishing  our  Constitution: 

"In  the  beginning  of  the  contest  with  Great  Britain,  when  we  were  sensi- 
ble of  danger,  we  had  daily  prayers  in  this  room  for  divine  protection.  Our 
prayers,  sir,  were  heard ;  and  they  were  graciously  answered.  All  of  us  who 
were  engaged  in  the  struggle  must  have  observed  frequent  instances  of  a 
superintending  Providence  in  our  favor.  To  that  kind  Providence  we  owe  this 
happy  opportunity  of  consulting  in  peace  on  the  jmeans  of  establishing  our 
future  national  felicity.  And  have  we  now  forgotten  that  powerful  Friend? 
Or  do  we  imagine  that  we  no  longer  need  His  assistance?  I  have  lived,  sir, 
a  long  time ;  and  the  longer  I  live  the  more  convincing  proofs  I  see  of  this 
truth — that  God  governs  in  the  affairs  of  men;  and  if  a  sparrow  cannot  fall  to 
the  ground  without  his  notice,  is  it  probable  that  an  empire  can  rise  without 
His  aid?  We  have  been  assured,  sir,  in  sacred  writings,  that  'except  the 
Lord  build  the  house  they  labor  in  vain  that  build  it.'  I  firmly!  believe  this ; 
and  I  also  believe  that  without  his  concurring  aid  we  shall  succeed  in  this 
political  building  no  better  than  the  builders  of  Babel." 

This  was  the  spirit  of  the  men  who  established  America.  May 
God  keep  that  spirit  burning  forever  in  the  hearts  of  the  men  who  con- 
tinue to  lead  it.  I  want  to  say  that  I  have  discovered  that  that  spirit 
has  been  in  the  hearts  of  the  men  and  is  in  the  hearts  of  the  men 
who  preside  over  the  destinies  of  America,  though  it  may  not  be  in 
the  hearts  of  all  the  people.  They  announced  their  faith  when  they 
blazoned  upon  our  coin  the  motto,  "In  God  we  trust."  They  breathed 
it  into  their  songs  when  they  said: 

"Our  fathers'  God  to  thee, 
Author  of  liberty, 
To  thee  we  sing — " 
r  f        ■  "Long  may  our  land  be  bright 

With  Freedom's  holy  light, 
Protect  us  by  thy  might, 
Great  God,  our  King!" 

Other  nations  might  boast  of  their  kings,  but  the  King  of  Amer- 
ica, proclaimed  by  the  patriotic  fathers  who  founded  it  and  established 
it,  is  the  great  God  of  heaven.  This  must  continue  to  be  the  senti- 
ment of  the  people  of  America  if  the'se  glorious  institutions  shall  be 
preserved,  and  in  our  hands  is  the  sacred  keeping  of  these  great  and 
glorious  principles. 

THE  ATTITUDE  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  Latter-day  Saints  have  taken  a  very  definite  stand  in  reference 
to  their  attitude  towards  the  government,  and  towards  the  great  prob- 
lems of  life.  Have  we  had  to  shift  our  position?  Has  it  been 
assailed  successfully?  When  we  have  declared  our  loyalty  and  patriotism 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  the  Constitution  and  the  government,  and  that  we  recognize  that 
the  duty  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  to  uphold  and  support  the  laws 
of  the  land  as  faithfully  as  they  do  the  laws  of  the  Church,  were 
we  right?  Any  people  who  depart  from  that  will  not  be  able  to 
preserve  a  civilization  very  long.  Are  we  right  in  the  promulgation 
of  the  doctrine  that  we  have  advocated  of  the  single  standard  of  virtue, 
wherein  we  require  the  young  man  of  our  Church  to  be  as  clean  and 
as  pure  as  the  girl  he  asks  to  be  his  wife,  the  mother  of  his  children? 
Are  we  right  in  our  conception  of  marriage  for  time  and  for  eternity? 
Have  we  had  to  recede  from  that  position?  In  the  building  of  this 
family  relationship,  of  which  we  have  heard,  forever  and  forever  we 
stand  upon  solid  ground  and  cannot  be  shaken  from  it.  In  the  glorious 
conception  we  have  of  the  redemption  of  our  dead,  extending  to  those 
who  died  and  passed  beyond  the  veil  without  opportunity,  that  through 
the  vicarious  work  God  has  established  in  his  Church,  these  holy 
blessings  may  come  to  them,  are  we  right?  Have  we  had  to  recede 
from  that  position?  In  the  promulgation  of  the  doctrine  of  the  law 
of  tithing,  wherein  each  man  is  placed  under  a  certain  obligation  to 
the  Lord  to  pay  his  tenth,  whether  he  be  rich  or  whether  he  be  poor, 
are  we  right?  Have  we  had  to  recede  from  that  position?  No,  men 
are  growing  in  numbers  who  acknowledge  the  righteousness  of  the 
plan.  Are  we  right  in  our  missionary  syistem  that  calls  forth  these 
thousands  of  young  men  and  women  who  freely  give  themselves  and 
pay  their  way  to  go  to  the  ends  of  the  world  to  preach  this  gospel? 
Are  we  right  or  are  we  wrong?  We  know  we  are  right.  The  prin- 
ciple has  been  acknowledged  as  the  finest  plan  by  which  the  gospel 
message  may  be  carried  to  the  children  of  men. 

Recently  an  eminent  professor  said  to  the  General  Board  of  the 
Young  Men's  and  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Associations, 
in  discussing  the  question  of  the  ills  of  modern  youth:  "The  'Mor- 
mon' Church  is  founded  and  established  very  well,  better  than  any  other 
institution  in  the  world,  and  has  opportunities  to  hold  it;s  young  people, 
for  you  give  them  something  to  fight  for.  You  put  a  responsibility 
upon  them  and  send  them  forth  to  champion  a  cause.  You  will  hold 
them  as  long  as  you  have  something  worth  fighting  for."  And  we 
have. 

I  could  go  through  each  principle  of  the  gospel  that  has  been 
revealed  to  us  and  show,  I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and  Jsisters,  that  the 
attitude  of  the  leaders  of  this  Church  affecting  the  lives  of  the  people 
as  to  the  solution  of  the  great  problems  of  this  age  is  right,  and  that 
each  principle  is  right. 

A  NEW  TEST 

I  do  not  fear  all  the  tests  that  are  before  us.  I  have  recognized 
now  for  !some  time  past  that  a  new  test  is  coming  to  the  Saints — the 
test  of  peace  and  of  prosperity.  The  most  severe  test  that  has  ever 
come  to  any  people  is  the  test  of  peace  and  prosperity.  Having  sur- 
vived the  troubles  of  the  past  I  am  as  sure  as  that  I  live  that  this 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


111 


Church,  the  great  majority  of  thi!s  people,  will  stand  the  test  of  peace 
and  of  prosperity.  Though  many  may  fall,  though  many  may  hesitate 
and  falter,  this  work  is  established  to  stand  forever,  and  never  to 
fail.    It  is  founded  upon  the  truth. 

A  GLORIOUS  AGE 

Who  wants  to  hesitate  now?  Who  wants  to  desert  the  ranks  in 
such  a  glorious  cause  which  is  presently  to  be  triumphant  and  vic- 
torious? There  never  has  been  an  age  in  all  the  glorious  past  when 
there  was  such  an  opportunity  for  the  truth  as  today.  This  age  of 
questioning  is  all  in  favor  of  truth.  Let  error  vanish,  let  superstition 
and  ignorance  go;  it  is  the  age  when  the  truth  shall  be  triumphant. 
Those  who  know  the  truth  have  reason  to  take  courage  and  to  be 
affiliated  with  those  who  are  the  champions  of  truth,  for  it  is  the 
age  of  truth's  victory.  It  will  come.  Yes,  not  only  shall  the  doctrines 
and  the  theories  of  men  be  shaken,  but  the  very  earth  itself.  This  is 
the  age  when  it  too  is  to  be  shaken;  and  this  was  all  understood  by 
the  Master  who  built  the  earth,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Worlds  with- 
out number  he  has  made,  and  he  knows  how  they  will  behave  and 
when  they  will  misbehave;  he  knows  the  period  of  the  earth's  con- 
vulsions. Whatever  may  be  the  cause  of  our  present  unusual  storms, 
cyclones  and  disturbances,  whether  they  are  caused  by  sun  spots  or 
what  not — he  who  made  this  world  knew  when  would  come  the  period 
of  its  misbehavior,  as  accurately  as  the  astronomer  can  forecast  the 
coming  of  an  eclipse.  And  he  knew  that  this  disturbance  bore  a 
certain  relationship  to  other  great  and  important  events,  namely,  his 
coming  to  dwell  among  men  in  the  flesh. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  God  is  speaking  in  the  interest  of  truth 
and  in  the  interest  of  the  establishment  of  his  work,  even  by  the  very 
elements :  and  he  will  speak  in  an  effort  to  cause  men  in  their  mad 
rush  for  pleasure  to  stop,  to  ponder,  to  ask  themselves  whether  or 
not  God  be  in  the  affairs  of  men.  May  men  repent,  may  they  save 
themselves  by  accepting  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  God  himself 
cannot  save  them,  only  as  they  comply  with  the  rules  of  eternal  truth. 
If  they  disregard  them  they  put  themselves  beyond  his  power.  He 
can  do  nothing  for  them. 

god's  promises  to  be  realized 

I  bear  witness  that  I  know  as  I  know  I  live  that  this  is  God's  work 
and  that  Jesus  Christ  did  visit  the  earth.  I  know  that  he  did  speak 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  the  very 
truth,  and  that  Mormonism  is  indeed  God's  work,  founded  and 
established  to  endure.  Let  us  go  home  and  kindle  the  fire,  where  it  is 
burning  low,  in  the  hearts  of  the  wayward,  the  careless  and  indifferent. 
There  is  only  one  protection  for  us,  and  that  is  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God.  If  we  will  do  that  I  will  tell  you  that  the  period  now 
before  us  will  be  full  of  blessings,  full  of  promise,  full  of  hope  and 
full  of  glory  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


know  that  the  glorious  future  is  more  wonderful  than  all  the  past.  It  is  a 
time  for  men  and  women  to  re-dedicate  themselves  to  God  and  his 
service,  not  to  be  tired  nor  weary  in  well  doing.  The  future  is  so  full 
of  promise,  the  realization  of  all  that  has  been  promised  in  the  revela- 
tions of  the  Lord  to  his  servants  will  be  realized.  I  am  more  grateful 
than  I  can  express  this  day  for  my  standing  in  this  Church,  in  this 
glorious  work.  God  speed  it  forward  and  keep  us  in  its  ranks,  that 
we  and  our  children  may  be  counted  with  the  victorious  in  that 
day  of  triumph  which  is  to  come.  God  'speed  that  day,  I  prav  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Awake  my  soul." 
The  benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  Pres- 
ident of  the  Deseret  stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  session  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  tabernacle  on 
Sunday  afternoon,  October  7,  1928,  at  2  o'clock. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is 
burning." 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  James  W.  Funk,  President  of 
the  Benson  stake. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Gloria." 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

I  am  thankful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege  of  attend- 
ing this  remarkable  conference,  for  to  me  it  has  been  a  most  remarkable 
one  in  so  many  ways.  The  instructions  given,  the  testimonies  borne, 
the  interest  shown  by  the  thousands  attending  each  session,  and  no 
doubt  other  thousands  listening  in  by  radio,  must  be  most  gratifying  to 
all  who  are  interested  in  the  welfare  and  growth  of  God's  Latter-day 
work. 

WORK  NECESSARY  FOR  PROGRESS  OF  CHURCH 

I  pray  that  what  I  may  say  at  this  time  will  be  acceptable  to  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  will  inspire  in  the  hearts  of  the  saints  a  greater 
determination  to  serve  God,  keep  his  commandments,  and  work,  work, 
work,  to  bring  about  God's  great  plan  as  revealed  to  his  Prophet,  Joseph, 
in  this  the  last  dispensation,  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times. 
The  .lazy,  the  indolent  have  little  place  in  carrying  forward  God's 
plans.  This  is  so  in  this  age,  and  has  been  from  the  beginning,  and 
will  continue  to  be  so  until  the  end.  The  growth  of  the  Church  has 
not  been  accomplished  by  the  idler,  the  fault-finder,  the  whiner,  the 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


113 


mentally  or  physically  unclean,  but  by  the  industrious,  the  faithful,  the 
unselfish,  the  defenders  of  its  principles,  be  they  poor,  well-to-do  or 
wealthy.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  enters  into  the  every-day  life 
of  every  one  of  its  adherents. 

I  often  read  Solomon's  exhortation  to  the  study  of  wisdom  against 
idleness  and  things  hateful  to  God.  I  will  read  you  one  statement  made 
by  him  touching  the  question  of  idleness,  and  it  is  as  true  today  as 
when  uttered  by  Solomon: 

"Go  to  the  ant,  thou  sluggard ;  consider  her  ways,  and  be  wise : 
"Which  having  no  guide,  overseer,  or  ruler, 

"Provideth  her  meat  in  the  summer  and  gathereth  her  food  in  the  harvest. 
"How  long  wilt  thou  sleep,  O  sluggard?    When  wilt  thou  arise  out  of  thy 
sleep? 

"Yet  a  little  sleep,  a  little  slumber,  a  little  folding  of  the  hands  to  sleep ; 
"So  shall  thy  poverty  come  as  one  that  traveleth,  and  thy  want  as  an  armed 
man." 

For  years  on  the  front  cover  of  the  "Juvenile  Instructor"  there 
appeared  these  words :   "There  is  no  excellence  without  labor." 

The  necessity  and  advantages  of  work  have  been  stressed  in  all 
ages  of  the  world,  and  I  call  to  mind  a  revelation  given  through 
Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  on  February  9,  1831,  in  the  presence  of 
twelve  elders,  and  I  find  in  that  revelation,  Section  42,  Paragraph  42, 
the  following:  "Thou  shalt  not  be  idle,  for  he  that  is  idle  shall  not 
eat  the  bread  nor  wear  the  garments  of  the  laborer." 

life's  master  word 

In  an  address  by  Dr.  William  Osier,  to  a  group  of  young  physicians, 
he  made  this  statement  on  "Life's  Master  Word" : 

"Though  a  little  one,  the  master-word  looms  large  in  meaning.  It  is  the 
opening  to  every  portal,  the  great  equalizer  in  the  world,  the  true  philosopher's 
stone  which  transmutes  all  base  metal  of  humanity  into  gold.  The  stupid  man 
among  you  it  will  make  bright,  the  bright  man  brilliant,  the  brilliant  student 
steady.  With  the  magic  word  in  your  heart  all  things  are  possible,  and  without 
it  all  study  is  vanity  and  vexation.  The  miracles  of  life  are  with  it ;  the  blind 
see  by  touch,  the  deaf  hear  with  eyes,  the  dumb  speak  with  fingers.  To  the 
youth  it  brings  hope,  to  the  middle-aged  confidence,  to  the  aged  repose.  True 
balm  of  hurt,  in  its  presence  the  heart  of  the  sorrowful,  is  lightened  and  con- 
soled. It  is  directly  responsible  for  all  advances  in  medicine  during  the  past 
twenty-five  centuries.  With  it  Virchow  smote  the  rock,  and  the  waters  of 
progress  gushed  out;  while  in  the  hands  of  Pasteur  it  proved  a  very  talisman, 
to  open  to  us  a  new  heaven  in  medicine  and  a  new  earth  in  surgery.  Not  only 
has  it  been  the  touchstone  of  progress,  but  it  is  the  measure  of  success  in 
everyday  life.  Not  a  man  before  you  but  is  beholden  to  it  for  his  position  here. 
And,  the  master-word  is  WORK, — a  little  one,  as  I  have  said,  but  fraught  with 
momentous  sequences  if  you  can  but  write  it  on  the  tablets  of  your  hearts  and 
bind  it  upon  your  foreheads."  , 

Dr.  Osier's  forceful  statement  is  wonderfully  exemplified  in  the 
labors  and  activities  of  all  great  pioneers  in  all  ages  of  the  world  that 
we  have  record  of.  There  are  thousands  of  them,  but  none  greater 
than  those  whose  lives  were  dedicated  to  our  Heavenly  Father's  work 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  steadfastly  lived,  labored,  and,  in  many  cases  became  martyrs 
in  its  defense. 

PAUL,  THE  WORKER 

Consider  Paul,  the  worker.  He,  by  his  strenuous  activity,  his 
zeal,  his  industry,  must  have  impressed  the  people  of  his  age  that  work 
or  labor  was  honorable,  that  it  occupies  the  place  it  richly  deserves. 
Paul  did  not  consider  work  a  means  of  making  a  living,  but  as  an 
opportunity  of  making  a  life.  Paul  preferred  a  laborious  life  to  one 
of  ease  and  pleasure.  As  all  super-men,  he  rendered  a  service  to 
mankind.  He  learned  in  his  later  years  that  work  was  the  real  secret 
of  accomplishment,  and  further,  that  accomplishment  was  the  real 
secret  of  happiness.  Having  a  knowledge  of  these  facts,  Paul  was 
able  to  say:  "I  have  fought  a  good  fight,  I  have  finished  my  course, 
I  have  kept  the  faith;  henceforth  there  is  laid  up  for  me  a  crown  of 
righteousness  which  the  Lord,  the  righteous  judge,  shall  give  me  at 
that  day." 

These  were  the  words  of  Paul,  the  militant  apostle,  after  suffering 
opposition,  discouragement,  imprisonment,  threats  of  death — still  he 
could  tell  the  world  in  modesty,  but  convincingly,  that  he  had  met  his 
task  squarely  and  finished  it  thoroughly. 

HEZEKIAH  A  MAN  OF  ACTION 

I  call  to  mind  another  remarkable  character  in  the  Bible,  of  whom 
it  is  said,  "And  in  every  work  that  he  began,  he  did  it  with  all  his  heart 
and  prospered."  His  accomplishments  were  ordinary — simply  one  of 
that  age  performing  his  daily  tasks  unnoticed,  but  when  a  problem 
that  he  alone  could  solve  came  to  him,  he  was  aroused  by  divine 
enthusiasm.  The  real  object  of  life  was  made  manifest  to  him.  It  was 
a  time  for  action,  courage,  determination.  His  decision  would  make 
or  mar  his  career.  "Forward"  was  the  word,  and  Hezekiah  obeyed. 
Life  and  all  he  possessed  were  at  stake.  He  now  realized  that  dreams 
meant  nothing  until  they  became  realities.  Hezekiah  from  that  moment 
had  no  time  for  making  excuses,  no  time  to  complain,  no  time  to  count 
the  cost.   His  task  was  God's  call,  and  it  must  and  shall  be  accomplished. 

Notwithstanding  that  almost  unsurmountable  difficulties  crossed 
his  path,  he  never  wavered  in  his  determination  to  accomplish  the  work. 
No  matter  what  happened,  he  had  his  work  to  do.  Nothing  could 
swerve  him  from  it — he  had  learned  the  lesson  that  "There  is  no 
excellence  without  labor."  He  had  not  time  to  envy  the  success  of 
others.  He  had  a  vocation  to  master.  He  had  found  his  place.  He 
believed  implicitly  in  hard  work.  It  is  no  wonder  he  never  experienced 
drudgery,  discontent,  dissatisfaction. 

The  characters  of  Paul  and  Hezekiah  were  just  the  opposite  from 
that  of  the  unfaithful  servant  who  went  away  and  hid  his  talent  in 
the  earth.  In  the  latter  case  excuses  were  submitted  for  honest  effort,  no 
doubt  whining  because  he  was  not  forging  ahead,  always  waiting  for 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


115 


somebody  to  help  him,  ever  watching  the  clock  or  listening  for  the 
whistle  to  blow,  imagining  that  his  pathway  was  strewn  with  difficulties 
and  joining  in  the  chorus  of  the  army  of  failures  and  wails,  "I've  never 
had  a  chance ;  there's  no  use  trying." 

Too  many  people  are  quitters.  They  are  always  looking  for  bar- 
gains, discounts,  short-cuts  to  success,  rather  than  facing  life's  problems 
squarely.  Some  are  good  starters,  but  poor  finishers.  Edgar  A.  Guest 
expresses  the  tragedy  of  many  a  life  as  follows: 

"How  do  you  tackle  your  work  each  day? 

Are  you  scared  of  the  job  you  find? 
Do  you  grapple  the  task  that  comes  your  way 

With  a  confident,  easy  mind  ? 
Do  you  stand  right  up  to  the  work  ahead. 

Or  fearfully  pause  to  view  it? 
Do  you  start  to  toil  with  a  sense  of  dread, 

Or  feel  that  you're  going  to  do  it?" 

THE  ACCOMPLISHMENTS  OF  A  PROPHET 

I  now  call  to  mind  a  more  modern  servant  of  God,  one  chosen  by 
our  Heavenly  Father  to  open  this  gospel  dispensation.  See  what  he 
accomplished  through  direct  instructions  and  assistance  from  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  as  well  as  other  ordained 
personages,  having  the  authority  to  confer  upon  him  the  necessary 
powers  to  organize  again  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  with  all  of  its 
powers,  authority  and  blessings,  enjoyed  by  the  Church  over  which  the 
Savior  presided  during  his  mortal  life.  I  refer  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  Let  me  recite  to  you  some  of  the  things  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  accomplished  before  he  was  thirty-nine  years  of  age. 

He  had  seen  the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  had  held  eight  conver- 
sations with  the  Prophet  Moroni.  He  had  received  the  Aaronic  priest- 
hood from  John  the  Baptist  and  the  Melchizedek  priesthood  from  the 
apostles,  Peter,  James,  and  John.  He  had  translated  the  Book  of 
Mormon  by  the  power  of  God,  and  had  had  it  printed  and  in  circulation 
among  the  people  of  the  nation.  Joseph  Smith  had  organized  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  by  instruction  from  heaven,  and 
had  received  a  number  of  revelations  from  God.  He  had  received  the 
keys  from  (Elijah,  turning  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers, 
and  from  Moses  he  had  received  the  keys  of  the  gathering.  He  had 
communicated  with  Elias,  who  committed  to  him  the  dispensation  of  thes 
gospel  of  Abraham,  and  had  planned  two  temples,  one  at  Kirtland 
and  one  at  Nauvoo.  Before  he  was  twenty-five  years  of  age  he  had 
received  nearly  two  hundred  revelations  from  God  and  had  translated 
the  Book  of  Abraham  from  rolls  of  papyrus  written  by  Abraham  him- 
self while  he  was  in  Egypt,  which  came  from  the  catacombs  of  Egypt. 
He  had  received  revelations  and  visions  of  the  writings  of  Moses  as 
contained  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  giving,  among  other  things,  a 
minute  account  of  the  rebellion  in  heaven  and  of  the  creation. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THE  NEED  OF  PERSEVERANCE 

What  is  needed  by  the  saints  today  is  more  of  that  particular  brand 
of  perseverance  which  makes  one  unable  to  rest  while  important  things 
are  half  accomplished,  and  urges  him  to  keep  up  the  pace  until  the  course 
is  run.  We  must  be  more  than  average  workers.  We  must  do  something 
more  than  average  work.  "My  son,"  said  Bob  -Burdette,  "you  have  to 
work.  Whether  you  handle  pick  or  wheelbarrow  or  a  set  of  books,  dig- 
ging ditches  or  editing  a  newspaper,  ringing  an  auction  bell  or  writing 
funny  things,  you  must  work.  Don't  be  afraid  of  killing  yourself  by 
over-working  on  the  sunny  side  of  thirty.  Men  die  sometimes,  but  it  is 
because  they  quit  at  nine  p.  m.  and  don't  go  home  until  two  a.  m. 
It's  the  intervals  that  kill,  my  son.  *  *  *  Take  off  your  coat  and 
make  dust  in  the  world.  The  busier  you  are,  the  less  harm  you  are  apt 
to  get  into,  the  sweeter  will  be  your  sleep,  the  brighter  your  holidays, 
and  the  better  satisfied  the  whole  world  will  be  with  you."  "Keep  your 
boys  busy,"  said  Brigham  Young,  "even  if  you  have  to  have  them  dig 
a  hole  and  fill  it  up  again."  Remember,  "an  idle  brain  is  the  devil's 
workshop." 

When  a  boy,  Kipling  accompanied  his  father  on  a  sea  voyage. 
The  father  was  lying  on  his  bed  when  a  frightened  sailor  rushed  to  his 
door  crying,  "Your  son !  Your  son !"  The  frightened  father  sprang, 
to  his  feet  exclaiming,  "What  is  the  matter?"  "He  has  climbed  out 
on  the  foreyard  and  if  he  lets  go  he  will  be  drowned."  "Oh,  is  that 
all  ?"  replied  Kipling,  Sr.,  as  he  lay  down  again.    "He  won't  let  go." 

I  call  to  mind  a  statement  of  Alexander  Hamilton,  one  of  America's 
most  brilliant  statesmen,  as  follows:  "People  called  me  talented,  but 
all  the  talent  I  have  is  the  ability  for  hard  work,  and  through  that  has* 
come  all  the  success  I  have  ever  attained." 

Robert  Louis  Stevenson  upon  one  occasion  said,  "I  know  what 
pleasure  is,  for  I  have  done  good  work." 

We  all  remember  the  inspired  words  of  M.  D.  Babcock,  when  she 

said: 

"We  are  not  here  to  play,  to  dream,  to  drift; 
We  have  hard  work  to  do,  and  loads  to  lift : 
Shun  not  the  struggle ;  face  it ;  'tis  God's  gift." 

This  gospel  shall  be  preached  to  every  kindred,  tongue  and  people, 
and  God  is  fast  preparing  the  way  for  its  accomplishment.  We  are 
living  in  the  last  dispensation — the  beginning  of  the  end.  Give  us 
wisdom  and  strength,  O  Father,  that  we  may  work  for  its  advancement 
and  not  weary. 

I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  the  Son  of  the 
living  God ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  called  of  God  and  under  divine 
instruction  organized  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
This  Church  will  never  be  destroyed  nor  given  to  another  people. 
Father,  we  thank  thee  for  this  conference;  sanctify  all  that  has  been 
said  and  done  to  the  advancement  of  thy  Church  and  its  mission  on 
earth,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Among  the  many  outstanding  features  of  this  conference  one  has 
appealed  to  me  with  unusual  force,  namely  the  sustained  note  of  jubila- 
tion— righteous  jubilation  and  thanksgiving,  I  believe — over  the  pro- 
gress of  the  Church,  its  growth,  and,  what  is  more,  its  development  as 
shown  in  the  facts  set  forth  by  statistics  and  other  data,  convincing  us 
of  the  steady  progress  of  this  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  have 
reason  to  be  grateful ;  the  results  show  it.  But  this  joy  and  rejoicing  has 
been  wisely  tempered  by  advice  and  counsel  regarding  our  important 
duties.  There  has  not  been  lacking  the  note  of  warning  lest  we  fail 
in  greater  or  lesser  measure,  lest  we  begin  to  retrograde  rather  than 
advance. 

"ZION  PROSPERS"  IS  ALL  WELL  ? 

It  is  well  to  sing  "Zion  Prospers,"  pleasing  to  be  able  to  chant 
"All  is  Well;"  and  when  we  so  sing  in  the  spirit  of  thanksgiving  and 
appreciation  the  Lord  accepts  our  songs  as  praise.  But  it  is  possible  for 
us  to  sing  in  another  tone  and  speak  the  same  words,  chant  the  same 
melody,  and  yet  be  unacceptable  unto  the  Lord.  Indeed  as  I  mention 
this,  one  of  our  popular  songs,  I  call  to  mind  that  the  very  title  of  it 
was  used  by  an  ancient  prophet  by  way  of  warning  unto  the  people. 
The  Prophet  Nephi  warned  the  people  against  lethargy  and  neglect,  and 
pointed  out  that  many  were  thus  comforting  themselves  with  the 
thought  that  they  needed  to  do  little  or  nothing,  for  all  was  well  in 
Zion.  Speaking  of  the  wiles  of  the  evil  one,  the  devil  himself,  Nephi 
said : 

"And  others  will  he  pacify,  and  lull  them  away  into  carnal  security,  that 
they  will  say :  All  is  well  in  Zion ;  yea,  Zion  prospereth,  all  is  well — and 
thus  the  devil  cheateth  their  souls,  and  leadeth  them  away  carefully  down 
to  hell.    *   *  * 

"Therefore,  woe  be  unto  him  that  is  at  ease  in  Zion ! 

"Woe  be  unto  him  that  crieth:    All  is  well! 

"Yea,  woe  be  unto  him  that  heakeneth  unto  the  precepts  of  men,  and 
denieth  the  power  of  God,  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  I" 

I  would  not  place  that  pleasing  song  under  ban,  but  when  we 
sing  it,  let  us  sing  it  in  the  right  spirit  and  not  bring  the  woes  upon 
ourselves  for  excusing  our  lethargy  and  our  laziness  by  crooning, 
"Zion  prospers,  all  is  well." 

THE  MOMENTUM  OF  THE  CHURCH 

How  much  have  I,  how  much  have  you  contributed  to  Zion's 
prosperity,  my  brethren,  my  sisters  ?  Let  each  one  take  the  question  to 
himself.  Many  are  being  carried  by  the  resistless  momentum  of  this 
great  Church,  this  wonderful  work — swept  along  with  it.  And  they 
are  rather  a  drag  than  a  means  of  power  or  a  source  of  energy.  True, 
the  mathematical  principle  holds  that  the  whole  is  the  sum  of  all  its 
parts,  and  consequently  the  state  or  the  condition  of  a  community  must 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  the  algebraic  sum  of  the  several  conditions  of  its  individual  members. 
But  we  are  not  always  able  to  judge  of  the  members  separately  by  the 
condition  of  the  community. 

We  are  doing  much  now  in  seeking  to  improve  the  condition  and 
the  activities  of  our  quorums,  the  quorums  of  the  Holy  Priesthood; 
and  we  have  some  quorums  whose  records  are  good  as  compared  with 
others.  With  totals  of  activities  high,  it  may  appear  that  the  members 
are  energetic  and  that  they  never  before  have  accomplished  so  much. 
But  look  a  little  deeper  and  you  may  find  that  of  a  quorum  of 
ninety-six  elders,  sixteen  perhaps  have  been  doing  the  work  and  the" 
other  eighty  have  been  carried  along  without  much  effort  on  their  part. 

COLLECTIVELY  OR  INDIVIDUALLY? 

The  Lord  has  expressed  himself  forcefully  with  respect  to  such 
conditions,  in  these  last  days.  In  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants — I  pray  you  read  for  yourself— after  reciting  his  purposes 
and  plans  and  the  partial  realization  of  such  in  the  bringing  forth 
of  this  gospel  in  this  age,  he  speaks  of  those  who  were  charged  with 
authority  in  that  day  to  administer  the  affairs  of  the  Church,  those  to 
whom  these  commandments  were  given,  and  explains  that  the  com- 
mandments were  given  that  his  servants  might  have  power  to  lay  the 
foundation  of  this  Church  and  to  bring  it  forth  out  of  obscurity  and 
out  of  darkness.  Please  mark  his  words :  "The  only  true  and  living 
church  upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth  with  which  I  the  Lord  am 
well  pleased."  But  that  is  not  the  end  of  the  sentence  or  paragraph : 
"with  which  I  the  Lord  am  well  pleased,  speaking  unto  the  church  col- 
lectively and  not  individually." 

There  lies  a  vital  distinction.  It  is  expressed  but  we  often  over- 
look it.  It  is  a  distinction  that  should  be  heeded  in  all  our  organiza- 
tions within  the  Church,  and  without;  the  difference  between  the  col- 
lective status  or  conditions  or  achievements  and  the  work  of  the 
individual.  A  manufacturing  plant  may  turn  out  a  great  total  of 
product,  it  may  have  an  immense  output,  and  you  may  say  that  it  is 
doing  well ;  but  examine  the  units,  look  into  the  machinery,  not  simply 
inspect  it  in  a  general  way,  but  test,  try  every  machine,  every  part; 
and  you  may  find  that  not  one  mechanical  unit  there  is  doing  more 
than  fifty  or  sixty  per  cent  of  what  it  could  do,  and  yet  the  output 
is  big. 

A  great  acreage  may  result  in  a  very  large  yield,  but  when 
you  come  to  consider  the  yield  per  acre  you  may  find  that  you  are 
gathering  only  thirty  or  even  twenty  fold  when  you  ought  to  have 
been  reaping  seventy  and  eighty  and  even  an  hundred  fold. 

We  as  individuals  are  not  doing  all  that  could  be  done,  all  that 
should  be  done.  I  have  no  concern  for  the  Church  as  a  whole;  its 
destiny  is  foretold,  it  is  going  on  to  glorious  victory.  But  that  does 
not  say  that  each  of  us  who  are  members  of  the  Church  will  go  on  to 
glorious  victory ;  we  may  be  left  behind  entirely.  What  are  we  doing 
individually?    I  repeat.    The  tithing  system  of  the  Church  has  been 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


119 


referred  to  in  this  conference.  It  is  a  marvel  to  the  people  of  the 
world,  but  look  into  it  and  see  our  tithing  record. 

THE  TITHING  SYSTEM 

The  law  of  tithe  as  revealed  of  God  is  not  being  practiced  by  any 
other  religious  organization  on  the  face  of  the  earth,  nor  has  it  been 
since  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  or  during  the  time  of  the  great 
apostasy.  We  say  that  the  results  in  this  Church  are  very  impressive. 
They  are,  but  are  they  what  they  should  be?  How  much  have  you 
contributed  to  making  the  observance  of  the  law  of  tithing  acceptable 
to  the  Lord?  I  do  not  mean  how  much  in  dollars  and  cents,  I  do  not 
believe  that  is  the  way  in  which  tithing  is  recorded  above.  The  re- 
cording angels  may  have  a  system  of  bookkeeping  that  is  a  little  better 
than  ours.  How  much  have  you  contributed  by  way  of  paying  the 
tithe,  whether  it  be  ten  cents  or  a  hundred  dollars?  For  be  it  known 
that  the  one  who  pays  with  honest  heart  the  ten  cent  tithe,  if  it  be  a 
true  tithe,  will  rank  higher  on  those  books  than  the  one  who  pays  a 
thousand  dollars  when  that  is  only  a  tenth  of  a  tithe  for  him.  What  are 
we  doing  individually?  I  know  what  some  are  doing,  for  they  have 
told  me.  Some  are  very  busy  trying  to  find  excuses  in  the  matter  of 
tithing  ;as  in  other  duties.  Some  come  with  strange  questions :  "Tell 
me  please,  ought  I  to  subtract  this  or  deduct  that  before  I  calculate 
the  amount  of  my  tithes?"  Very  seldom  do  I  find  it  necessary  to 
analyze  the  case  and  to  give  an  answer  direct.  Sometimes  I  have 
smiled  because  I  could  see  the  perfidy  of  the  questioner's  coming  to 
me  for  excuses,  and  I  did  not  feel  complimented.  But  I  have  given 
him  a  rule,  and  I  venture  to  give  it  here.  I  have  found  it  helpful 
myself,  and  I  think  that  all  may  profit  by  it. 

A  RULE  FOR  COMPUTING  YOUR  TITHES 

When  you  are  in  doubt  as  to  just  how  you  should  calculate  your 
tithes,  reverse  the  terms  as  we  sometimes  do  in  solving  complex 
mathematical  problems,  and  suppose  for  the  time  being  that  the  Lord 
had  said  this;  let  us  postulate  this  as  an  assumed  law  given  to  the 
Church :  "In  order  to  show  my  love  for  my  people,  the  faithful  mem- 
bers of  my  Church,  it  is  my  will,  saith  the  Lord,  that  each  one  shall 
receive  from  my  storehouse,  the  storehouse  of  my  church,  at  regular 
intervals  during  the  year,  an  amount  equal  to  one-tenth  of  his  income." 
Now  my  dear  brother,  sit  down  and  calculate  how  much  the  Lord  owes 
you  under  that  kind  of  law,  and  then  go  pay  it  to  your  bishop. 

CHURCHES  AND  jMEMBERS  OF  CHURCHES 

There  is  another  phase  of  this  distinction  between  individual  and 
collective  computation.  The  Lord  was  pleased  with  this  Church  in  the 
day  in  which  he  spake  as  quoted  and  he  is  pleased  with  it  today  as 
a  church;  likewise  he  is  pleased  with  a  great  many  of  its  members; 
for  there  are  many,  many  faithful  members  in  this  Church,  men  and 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


women  who  are  doing  well  nigh  all  they  could  do  save  for  the  imper- 
fections of  humanity.  And  the  Lord  is  pleased  with  them;  he  is 
pleased  with  the  Church,  for  it  is  progressing.  There  are  churches  with 
which  he  is  not  pleased. 

We  are  ofttimes  charged  with  being  very  exclusive,  and  we  admit 
the  charge;  we  are  exclusive,  but  in  a  rational  sense.  How  can  we 
solemnly  testify  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  and  then  ascribe 
that  same  high  title  to  other  organizations  that  have  been  formed,  not 
under  the  direction  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  according  to  man's  thought  and 
plans?  Some  people  say  that  we  are  illiberal  because  we  do  not  admit 
that  all  other  churches  are  just  what  this  church  professes  to  be.  We 
admit  that  other  churches  are  what  they  profess  to  be,  when  their 
profession  is  based  on  facts. 

Now  when  we  say  that  the  Lord  is  not  pleased  with  those  churches, 
we  do  not  mean  that  he  is  not  pleased  with  the  members  thereof.  We 
hold  that  God  is  no  respecter  of  persons,  but  on  the  contrary  that  he 
will  acknowledge  good  in  any  soul,  no  matter  whether  that  person 
belongs  to  a  church  or  not.  But  the  Lord  is  not  pleased  with  those 
churches  that  have  been  constructed  by  men  and  then  labeled  with 
his  name.  He  is  not  pleased  with  those  doctrines  that  are  being  taught 
as  being  his  doctrines  when  they  are  only  the  effusion  of  men's  brains, 
undirected  by  inspiration  and  utterly  lacking  in  revelation. 

CHURCH  OF  CHRIST  AND  CHURCHES  OF  MEN 

He  has  expressed  himself  with  regard  to  the  churches  that  are 
built  by  man  and  has  said  they  shall  be  overthrown.  Indeed  he  has 
applied  strong  terms  to  some  of  those  churches,  or  to  church  organiza- 
tions in  general,  that  have  been  brought  into  being  by  man.  Read  his 
words  to  John  the  Revelator.  See  what  he  means  by  the  synagogue  of 
Satan  to  which  some  of  the  people  belonged.  Read  what  he  has  said 
about  the  great  and  abominable  church,  the  mother  of  abominations- 
The  church  as  such  may  be  wholly  corrupt  because  of  the  false  claims 
that  are  being  made  for  it,  and  yet  within  that  church  as  members 
there  may  be  people  who  are  doing  their  best.  They  have  been  deceived. 
As  to  the  degree  of  culpability  that  will  be  charged  up  to  them  for 
their  having  become  subjects  of  deception,  we  may  not  be  able  to  judge. 

But  I  do  not  understand  that  when  the  Lord  states  that  those 
churches  shall  be  overthrown — I  mean  the  church  of  the  devil,  using 
his  expression,  and  those  that  are  making  false  claims,  and  shall  be 
thrown  into  the  fire,  as  he  says — I  do  not  understand  that  all  members 
of  those  churches  are  to  meet  destruction,  physically  or  otherwise.  He 
is  speaking  there  of  the  church  collectively,  and  he  is  not  pleased  with 
it;  but  individually  he  may  be  well  pleased  with  many  of  his  sons  and 
daughters  who  have  been  born  under  an  environment  that  has  led 
them  into  those  churches  which  are  not  of  God. 

I  feel  that  we  should  give  attention  to  the  individual  unit.  Whole- 
sale farming  is  all  right  but  we  do  not  always  get  the  yield  that  we 
would  get  if  we  were  to  pay  greater  attention  to  each  particular  plant. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


121 


And  so  with  respect  to  members  and  membership  in  this  Church.  I 
trust  that  when  the  account  shall  be  cast  up,  the  Lord  will  be  pleased 
with  his  Church,  and  I  know  he  will  be;  but  I  hope  that  he  will  not 
be  utterly  displeased  with  me  as  a  member ;  and  I  have  the  same  wish 
with  respect  to  every  one  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  But  I  pray 
you,  be  not  content  with  the  progress  of  the  Church  as  an  organization 
unless  you  are  progressing  with  it,  and  not  simply  being  carried  along 
by  it. 

In  brief  reference  to  the  olden  parable :  There  are  some  who 
have  just  enough  oil  in  their  tiny  lamps  to  show  that  they  claim  to  belong 
to  the  organization,  but  their  light  goes  out  when  a  little  trouble  comes^ 
a  little  persecution;  and  they  walk  in  the  light  of  the  Church  without 
individual  light.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  shall  be  well  pleased  with  his 
people  individually,  as  I  know  he  will  continue  to  be  pleased  with  his 
Church  collectively,  in  his  name,  Amen. 

A  solo,  "O  Divine  Redeemer,"  was  sung  by  Sister  Emma  Lucy 
Bowen. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 

President  ef  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

Behold  a  great  and  marvelous  work  has  come  among  the  children 
of  men.  The  spirit  of  this  conference  has  evidenced  that  to  a  very 
marked  degree  to  the  thousands  of  people  that  are  in  attendance  at 
this  conference. 

I  am  delighted  to  bring  good  news  from  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission.  I  am  thrilled  beyond  my  power  to  express  at  the  reception 
which  I  have  received  during  the  past  two  days  from  fathers  and 
mothers  who  have  sons  and  daughters  now  laboring  in  the  Northwestern 
States.  I  have  never  seen  before  such  a  manifestation  of  faith  in  God 
as  has  been  shown  by  these  good  parents,  not  only  one,  but  many. 
Even  today  people  who  have  driven  hundreds  of  miles  to  be  present 
at  this  conference  have  said,  "President  Sloan,  my  son,  my  daughter, 
is  at  the  service  of  God  as  long  as  he  desires  them  to  remain  in  the 
mission  field." 

I  have  a  young  man  laboring  with  me  now  who  eighteen  months 
ago  received  a  call  to  the  mission  field.  He  is  the  son  of  a  widowed 
mother  who  is  working  hard  to  sustain  her  little  family,  and  he  is  a 
twin.  When  the  call  came,  the  mother  looked  at  it  with  tears  in  her 
eyes.  She  called  on  the  Bishop  and  said,  "Bishop,  I  pray  you,  do  not 
separate  my  twins.  Let  them  both  go  on  a  mission."  The  elder  and 
his  sister  are  laboring  in  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Last  February  one  of  the  brethren  in  Montana  passed  away,  leaving 
a  wife  and  a  family  of  children  in  almost  destitute  circumstances.  As 
the  spring  opened  up  the  good  saints  and  friends  of  that  branch  united 
together,  and  in  one  day  they  plowed,  disced,  harrowed  and  seeded  this 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


widow's  ninety  acres  of  sod.  The  Relief  Society  sisters  were  there 
playing  their  part  and  provided  meals  for  the  brethren.  A  month  ago 
when  I  was  there  the  crops  were  almost  ready  for  harvest,  all  standing 
in  the  field  to  bless  and  sustain  this  widow  and  her  family  of  children. 
"Pure  religion  and  undefiled  before  God  and  the  Father  is  this,  to 
visit  the  fatherless  and  widows  in  their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself 
unspotted  from  the  world." 

I  stood  a  few  weeks  ago  at  the  bedside  of  one  of  the  good  sisters 
in  the  hospital  at  Helena.  I  want  to  leave  her  testimony  with  you, 
brethren  and  sisters.  Many  of  you  have  probably  heard  it  before.  She 
recounted  to  me  early  experiences  in  the  little  town  of  Clarkston,  Utah. 
Her  sister  was  the  wife  of  Martin  Harris,  Jr.  One  morning  as  she 
was  a  guest  at  her  sister's  home,  Martin  Harris,  Jr.,  went  to  the  bed- 
side of  his  father  and  found  him  failing  very  fast.  Returning  home 
he  conveyed  this  message  to  his  wife  and  her  father,  Brother  Homer. 
They  all  immediately  returned  to  the  bedside  of  Martin  Harris.  Sister 
Costly  took  the  hand  of  her  father  and  walked  across  the  street  into 
the  home  of  Martin  Harris.  Brother  Homer  walked  to  his  bedside 
and  said,  "How  are  you,  Brother  Harris?"  He  answered,  "I  feel  that 
I  am  not  long  for  this  world."  Brother  Homer  spoke  to  him  and  he 
said  concerning  the  Book  of  Mormon,  "Brother  Homer,  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  as  true  as  the  stars  that  shine  in  the  heavens."  Then  turning 
to  his  son,  Martin  Harris,  Jr.,  he  said,  "Martin,  proclaim  this  truth 
to  all  the  world.  Tell  them  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true."  That 
was  the  testimony  of  a  dying  man  to  his  son.  Brethren  and  sisters, 
would  he  desire  his  son  to  go  and  tell  a  falsehood  to  the  world  ? 

The  Mission  in  the  Northwest  is  growing.  We  have  recently 
opened  up  the  district  in  Alaska.  There  are  Indians  there  by  the  hun- 
dreds who  are  educated  and  are  a  fine  type  of  manhood.  They  are 
seeking  for  the  truth.  Two  of  the  elders  laboring  there  have  met  with 
considerable  success,  not  only  among  the  white  people,  but  also  among 
the  Indians.  They  seem  to  be  anxious  to  know  the  contents  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  many  copies  have  been  distributed  among  them. 
They  believe  the  teachings  of  that  wonderful  book. 

The  work  is  growing.  The  missionaries  are  enjoying  splendid 
health.  They  are  enjoying  the  spirit  of  their  calling.  Do  not  worry 
about  your  sons  and  daughters.  Please  do  not  send  them  quite  so  much 
money,  most  of  them.  We  prefer  that  they  do  not  have  so  much  and 
they  will  make  better  missionaries  for  the  Church. 

The  wonderful  organization  of  this  Church,  its  growth  and  de- 
velopment stand  as  a  testimony  to  all  the  world,  and  yet  there  are  those 
who  cannot  see  its  truth.  Some  day  God  will  touch  them  and  then  the 
eyes  of  their  understanding  will  be  opened.  They  will  know,  I  am  sure, 
that  in  all  the  processes  that  God  has  instituted,  this  Church  has  been 
on  the  right  side. 

One  of  our  modern  poets,  Edgar  A.  Guest,  has  given  us  the  follow- 
ing lines: 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 


123 


"The  non-believer  is  a  man 

Who  lets  the  morning  sunshine  in 
And  thinks  by  chance  this  world  began 
As  men  throw  dice  and  lose  or  win ; 
He  sees  the  violets  bloom  and  blow, 
But  not  the  power  which  makes  them  grow. 

"Chance  charted  every  planet's  course! 

By  chance  the  summer  follows  spring! 
Chance  gave  to  man  the  faithful  horse 

And  made  the  swallow  fleet  of  wing! 
How  these  things  came  he  doesn't  know. 
He  thinks  they  merely  happened  so. 

"Oh,  what  a  jumble  there  would  be 

If  chance  were  shaping  beasts  and  men, 

Could  blind  chance  once  repeat  a  tree, 
Or  bring  the  June  rose  back  again  ? 

The  simplest  truth  we've  learned  to  know. 

Tomorrow  chance  might  overthrow. 

"Without  confusion  or  mistake 

There  is  a  power  which  rules  us  all, 

A  higher  law  we  cannot  break, 

An  eye  that  sees  the  sparrow's  fall. 

In  every  twig  and  leaf  and  blade 

I  see  God's  handiwork  displayed. 

I  pray  the  blessings  of  God  to  be  with  this  people,  on  its  leaders, 
and  in  all  Israel,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

• 

The  choir  sang  the  first  two  verses  of  the  hymn,  "An  angel  from 
on  high." 

ELDER  HENRY  H.  ROLAPP 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

My  brethen  and  sisters,  I  deem  it  a  great  privilege  to  have  the 
opportunity  of  making  a  report  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission.  I  have 
probably  seen  seventy-five  per  cent  of  the  parents  or  close  relatives 
of  the  missionaries  who  are  laboring  in  the  Eastern  States.  I  would 
like  to  see  the  remainder  of  them  at  the  close  of  this  meeting. 

In  the  Eastern  States  we  have  a  wonderful  showing.  Everybody 
is  well.  We  haven't  a  sick  missionary  in  the  entire  district.  We  have 
been  very  fortunate  in  having  some  of  the  general  authorities  come  to 
New  York  and  preach  to  the  saints.  During  the  last  month  Elder 
Whitney  went  through  the  entire  mission.  He  and  I  saw  every  mis- 
sionary. We  have  had  President  Talmage  preach  to  us  in  New  York 
and  Brooklyn ;  we  had  Brother  Widtsoe  talk  to  us ;  and  we  have  had 
Bishop  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Bishop  Wells  and  other  elders  visit  us. 
President  Grant  visited  with  us  in  New  York  and  West  Virginia.  In 
the  latter  place  he  had  never  been  heard  before,  and  the  saints  were  out 
in  very  large  numbers.  During  the  past  month  while  Brother  Whitney 
was  there  we  had  exceptionally  large  meetings.    In  the  Brooklyn 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Branch  every  seat  was  taken,  both  in  the  body  of  the  hall  and  in  the 
gallery,  and  chairs  were  placed  in  the  aisles ;  yet  there  must  have  been 
fifty  persons,  I  should  say,  who  were  unable  to  get  a  seat.  On  that 
Sunday  he  addressed  perhaps  eight  hundred  people,  one  quarter  of 
whom  were  non-Mormons. 

In  the  Eastern  States  Mission  we  have  started  a  new  proceeding 
which  I  understand  is  being  introduced  very  largely  in  other  missions. 
We  have  something  over  six  hundred  children  of  non-members  attend- 
ing Primary  Associations.  I  am  a  Sunday  School  man,  and  we  started 
out  to  make  it  a  Sunday  School  affair,  but  we  found  we  could  not. 
So  we  instituted  the  Primaries,  and  practically  every  day  of  the  week 
some  Primary  is  being  entertained  by  the  sisters.  I  think  they  are 
doing  a  marvelous  work.  In  the  morning  our  sisters  go  out  tracting 
from  house  to  house,  and  in  the  afternoon  they  pick  up  these  children 
and  bring  them  into  their  Primary  organization  and  teach  them  the  life 
of  Christ  and  some  other  Christian  stories. 

When  I  was  called  on  this  mission  I  was  not  strongly  in  favor  of 
young  ladies  coming  into  the  mission  field.  I  have  had  to  change  my 
attitude  in  that  respect.  I  am  now  praying  for  more  girls  to  come 
into  the  mission  field.  They  can  do  a  great  deal  of  good.  I  want  to 
say  to  you  that  they  are  preaching  the  gospel  and  they  are  visiting  the 
parents  of  these  children.  True,  we  have  not  received  very  many 
converts  yet,  but  they  are  coming,  and  great  good  has  been  done. 

I  want  to  testify  to  the  responsibility  that  the  brethren  and  the 
sisters  feel  who  are  laboring  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission.  They  are 
living  lives  of  Latter-day  iSaints ;  they  are  preaching  the  gospel  of 
Christ,  and  they  are  causing  one  to  marvel  at  the  miracle  which  God 
is  performing.  The  young  people  as  they  come  into  the  mission  know 
comparatively  little  regarding  the  gospel.  True,  they  have  gone  to 
Sunday  School  and  to  Mutual,  and  have  been  faithful  and  diligent  in 
doing  so ;  but  when  they  have  been  in  the  mission  a  year  or  so  they 
have  a  testimony  which  I  promise  them  shall  never  leave  them.  The> 
may  apostatize  from  the  Church,  but  they  will  have  the  knowledge 
that  they  have  testified  to  the  truth.  When  those  young  people  come 
back — I  join  in  the  statement  made  by  President  Allred — then  is  the 
time  I  would  like  to  see  you  give  them  a  party.  They  have  then  done 
something  for  the  Church  of  Christ.  That  is  the  time  when  I  would 
like  to  see  everybody  come  out  and  congratulate  them  on  what  they 
have  done. 

Practically  every  elder  in  the  mission  can  come  home  and  do 
more  than  fifty  percent  of  your  own  ward  people.  They  are  trained  in 
visiting  the  saints.  Take  hold  of  them,  make  them  ward  teachers  when 
they  come  home,  and  appeal  to  them  in  the  proper  spirit.  I  want  to 
tell  you  there  are  no  stronger  young  people  in  the  world  than  these 
young  missionaries.  I  am  thankful  that  I  have  been  called  on  a  mission. 
I  am  getting  old,  but  I  am  thankful  that  even  at  my  age  I  received 
the  call  to  do  missionary  work.  I  testify  to  you  that  I  know  this  is 
the  gospel  of  Christ,  and  that  testimony  has  been  with  me  ever  since 


ELDER  HENRY  H.  ROLAPP 


125 


I  was  upon  a  mission  in  England  with  President  Nibley  about  fifty 
years  ago.  That  testimony  is  still  in  my  heart  and  has  never  been 
shaken,  but  this  mission  has  made  it  conspicuous,  so  that  I  know  not 
only  what  I  can  do,  but  I  know  what  your  children  can  do.  Do  not  let 
them  come  home  and  become  inactive.  Some  of  us  older  ones  should 
step  aside  and  take  hold  of  the  younger  ones. 

I  testify  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  gospel.  I  pray  God  that  he  will 
bless  us  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission  that  we  may  grow,  as  we  are 
growing,  financially,  spiritually,  and  in  every  other  way.  I  ask  it  all 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  in  attendance  at 
this  conference  and  to  have  been  able  to  listen  to  the  sermons  that  have 
been  delivered. 

While  sitting  upon  my  seat  I  have  considered  and  remembered 
some  of  the  things  that  President  Grant  said,  one  of  which  was  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  should  read  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the 
other  standard  Church  works.  In  my  years  of  experience  in  the  mission 
field  I  have  failed  to  find  any  one  thing  revealed  by  the  Lord  success- 
fully assailed.  In  all  the  experiences  I  have  had  I  know  of  nothing 
else  that  has  stood  the  test  that  the  principles  of  the  gospel  have  stood 
I  am  sure  that  they  will  endure  unto  the  end,  and  the  measurement  of 
men's  success  and  the  glory  of  God  shall  be  brought  about  through  the 
principles  he  Iras  revealed  unto  the  world  in  these  the  last  days.  The 
Lord  says  that  if  men  will  read  these  scriptures  with  real  intent  and  with 
a  desire  to  know  the  truth  he  will  manifest  the  truth  unto  them  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost;  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  they 
may  know  all  things.  i 

The  Lord  requires  of  all  men,  regardless  of  who  they  are,  that 
they  must  be  sincere,  that  they  must  have  a  real  intent  in  their  hearts ; 
and  when  they  do,  he  will  come  unto  them  in  the  hours  of  the  day 
and  the  night,  and  bring  to  them  his  blessings,  and  reveal  unto  them 
his  truths  as  a  father  on  the  earth  would  reveal  to  his  son,  only  in 
greater  measure.  Our  Eternal  Father  loves  his  children  and  will  reveal 
unto  them  his  purposes  and  make  known  unto  them  why  he  sent  them 
into  the  earth.  The  children  of  men  are  to  be  congratulated  in  this 
day  and  generation  because  of  that  which  God  our  Eternal  Father 
has  delivered  unto  them. 

As  I  have  sat  today  thinking  of  the  thousands  of  people  who  are 
listening  to  these  services ;  who  are  hearing  the  remarks  that  are  being 
made  in  the  sessions  of  this  conference  by  the  servants  of  God — ■ 
the  President  of  the  Church  and  others  who  have  spoken  or  who  will 
speak — I  have  recognized  that  the  word  of  God  has  been  revealed  anew 
to  us.    The  plan  has  been  revealed  to  many  undoubtedly  who  have 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


never  been  able  to  listen  before  as  they  have  at  this  time.  Great  are 
the  purposes  of  God  our  Eternal  Father.  His  power  is  everywhere, 
through  all  and  in  all.  This  is  the  work  of  God.  He  is  with  his 
children  at  home  and  abroad.  His  sons  and  daughters  are  doing  much, 
and  he  is  the  one  unto  whom  we  should  give  glory  and  honor  and 
praise  forever  and  ever;  for  he  is  God,  the  King  of  all,  the  Father  of 
heaven  and  earth ;  he  has  planned  everything  for  the  good  of  his  sons 
and  daughters  here  in  mortality.  May  we  rally  to  him  and  to  those 
wno  represent  him  in  the  earth,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

In  every  dispensation  the  Lord  has  chosen  men  to  lead  and  pre- 
serve Israel  who  were  statesmen  as  well  as  prophets.  This  is  deeply 
significant.  These  statesmen-prophets  have  pointed  to  nations  as  well 
as  to  the  people  of  their  own  faith  the  means  of  escape  from  im- 
pending evils  and  calamities. 

In  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  great  statesman- 
prophet,  nearly  one  hundred  years  ago,  the  Lord  said: 

"Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come  upon 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  mv  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  h">  commandments."  (Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  Sec.  1 :17.) 

That  awful  hurricane  in  Florida,  four  weeks  ago  today  (Sunday, 
September  16th)  evidences  the  truth  of  the  revelation  in  which  it  is 
declared  by  the  Lord  that  the  testimony  of  the  elders  would  be  followed 
by  the  testimony  of  earthquakes,  and  other  events. 

"And  after  your  testimony  cometh  wrath  and  indignation  upon  the  people. 

"For  after  your  testimony  cometh  the  testimony  of  earthquakes.    *   *  * 

"And  also  cometh  the  testimony  of  the  voice  of  thunderings,  and  the  voice  of 
lightnings,  and  the  voice  of  tempests,  and  the  voice  of  the  iwaves  of  the  sea 
heaving  themselves  beyond  their  bounds. 

"And  all  things  shall  be  in  commotion;  and  surely,  men's  hearts  shall  fail 
them;  for  fear  shall  come  upon  all  people."  (Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section 
88:88-91.)  {    }  _ 

Tennyson  says  that  "things  seen  are  mightier  than  things  heard." 
I  was  a  horrified  eye  witness  of  the  ruin  and  desolation  wrought  by  that 
fearful  tempest.  I  beheld  the  hurrying  floods  going  on  to  their  work 
of  destruction.  The  buildings,  everywhere,  in  the  storm-stricken  dis- 
trict were  in  ruins.  The  Lord,  ever  mindful  of  the  safety  of  his 
missionaries,  caused  them  to  come  out  of  that  part  of  Florida  devastated 
by  the  storm  several  days  before  the  hurricane  came  upon  that  region.  I 
know  it  is  said  that  such  calamities  have  always  been  in  the  earth.  That 
may  or  may  not  be  true.  But  it  is  certainly  true  that  the  God  of  heaven, 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


127 


down  through  all  the  ages  has  thundered  his  warnings  by  the  voice  of 
judgment  to  unrepentant  people,  and  by  that  means,  when  the  voice  of 
admonition  and  mercy  has  failed,  has  urged  them  to  forsake  the  paths 
of  wrong-doing  and  return  unto  him. 

There  were  good  men  and  good  women  who  lost  their  lives  in  that 
tempest,  but  I  cannot  believe  that  these  unfortunate  people  died  in  vain. 
We  have  had  martyrs  to  science,  education  and  religion.  The  Holy 
Bible  and  the  Book  of  Mormon  cost  some  of  the  best  blood  of  Adam's 
race  to  bring  them  forth  for  the  purpose  of  blessing  the  people:  for 
these  sacred  records  testify  to  the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Ij 
believe  that  the  Christian  men,  women  and  children  who  died  in  the 
storm  have  gone  to  an  eternal  reward ;  and  if  the  people  of  the  world 
are  impressed  by  that  awful  destruction  from  the  Almighty,  if  they 
will  profit  from  the  lesson  of  that  fearful  calamity,  these  men  and 
women  shall  not  have  died  in  vain. 

When  we  see  the  judgments  of  God  coming  upon  the  earth  it  is 
proof  that  the  Savior,  who  said  to  the  troubled  sea  and  angry  elements, 
"Peace,  be  still,"  will  say  to  the  troubled  world,  "Peace,  be  still."  He 
will,  at  his  second  coming,  inaugurate  the  Millennium,  bring  to  pass  the 
glorious  resurrection,  and  all  the  things  he  has  promised  to  those  that 
obey  him. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  scriptures  ring  with  the  call  to  the 
repentance  that  will  move  a  man  to  "put  on  the  new  man,"  the  re- 
pentance that  will  give  the  sinner  another  heart.  Of  such  vital  im- 
portance to  a  man's  salvation  is  the  cleansing  of  the  soul,  that  the 
Lord  has  said:  "Say  nothing  but  repentance  unto  this  generation." 
And  in  another  place  he  says:  "Behold,  the  world  is  ripening  in 
iniquity ;  and  it  must  needs  be  that  the  children  of  men  are  stirred  up 
unto  repentance,  both  the  Gentiles  and  also  the  house  of  Israel."  (Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  Section  18:6.) 

And  this  is  the  mission  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  This  is  the  glorious  and  sacred  work  your  sons  and 
daughters  are  doing  in  the  mission  fields ;  and  God  is  with  them.  His 
promises  are  being  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter. 

The  Apostle  Paul  said :  "See  that  ye  refuse  not  him  that  speaketh." 
We  appeal  to  all  people  to  come  unto  repentance.  Obey  him  whose 
voice  not  only  shakes  the  earth,  but  also  heaven.  Come  unto  Jesus 
Christ  and  get  that  peace  and  rest  for  your  souls  that  is  beyond  all 
price. 

God  help  us  to  serve  the  Lord  acceptably,  in  reverence  and  in 
Godly  fear,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church,  who 
were  sustained  by  unanimous  vote  of  the  congregation  as  follows : 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards    -  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball         Charles  H.  Hart 
Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin        Rey  L.  Pratt 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH  - 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


129 


CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay 

Charles  W.  Nibley  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  Peter  G.  Johnston 

Orval  W.  Adams 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 

David  A.  Smith,  President  '    George  C.  Smith,  Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Tracy  Y.  Cannon  Frank  W.  Asper 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

REORGANIZATION  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Sister  Clarissa  S.  Williams  has  been  President  of  the  Relief  Society 
for  a  number  of  years.  Her  husband  was  sick  for  a  year  or  two  prior 
to  his  death,  and  her  own  health  has  not  been  first-class.  It  has, 
therefore,  been  decided  by  the  Council  of  the  First  Presidency  and 
Twelve,  after  consultation  with  Sister  Williams  and  with  her  approval, 
to  release  her  from  this  position  with  our  thanks,  love  and  blessings. 

This  action  also  involves  the  release  of  her  counselors,  Sisters, 
Jennie  B.  Knight  and  Louise  Y.  Robison,  and  as  the  new  president 
wishes  Sister  Amy  Brown  Lyman  to  be  her  first  counselor,  it  also 
involves  her  release  as  secretary  and  treasurer  of  the  organization. 

These  good  sisters  carry  our  love  and  blessings  for  the  splendid 
labors  that  they  have  performed. 

(The  congregation  then  indicated  their  approval  of  this  action 
by  unanimous  vote.) 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


President  Grant  then  presented  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of 
the  Church,  who  were  sustained  by  unanimous  vote  of  the  congregation, 
as  follows: 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor 
Julia  F.  Lund,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  LADIES'  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Martha  H.  Tingey,  President 
Ruth  May  Fox,  First  Counselor 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  President 
Sadie  G.  Pack,  First  Counselor 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  can  say  that  I  have  rejoiced  beyond  my  power  of  expression 
in  the  very  excellent  attendance  that  we  have  had  at  this  conference, 
in  the  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  upon  those  who  have 
spoken  and  in  the  splendid  attention  that  has  been  given  by  the 
audiences.  I  believe  that  we  have  had  a  larger  number  at  this  con- 
ference than  at  any  previous  one  that  I  can  recall  during  the  time  I 
have  been  President  of  the  Church.  In  addition  there  have  been 
hundreds  and  thousands  who  have  been  listening  in  over  the  radio. 

We  rejoice  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  those  of  us  who  have 
received  it,  and  we  are  anxious  that  all  the  world  should  hear  the 
message  of  life  and  salvation  that  has  come  to  us  through  the  instru- 
mentality of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

REJOICE  BECAUSE  OF  ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

We  had  a  very  wonderful  gathering  here  last  night  of  the  priest- 
hood of  the  Church,  almost  completely  filling  the  main  floor  of  this 
great  auditorium  with  men  holding  the  priesthood  of  the  living  God, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


131 


with  authority  to  administer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  with  power 
from  God  himself. 

We  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  work  that  is  being  accomplished  by 
the  Relief  Societies,  by  the  Young  Men's  and  Young  Ladies'  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations,  by  our  Sunday  Schools  and  by  the  Primary 
Associations.  We  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  remarkable  work  that  is 
being  accomplished  in  the  educational  department  of  the  Church  and 
particularly  by  the  Religion  Class  organization.  Sixty-one  thousand 
of  our  young  people  are  receiving  instruction  in  our  Religion  Classes. 
I  rejoice  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  all  that  is  being  accomplished. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  BLESSINGS 

We  are  grateful  for  the  beautiful  singing  by  our  choir.  We  are 
grateful  to  the  soloists  who  have  entertained  us.  We  are  thankful  for 
the  wonderful  organ  and  for  the  faithful  and  efficient  men  who  officiate! 
at  the  organ. 

My  heart  went  out  in  gratitude  as  I  listened  to  the  prayer  by 
Brother  Stephen  L.  Chipman,  thanking  the  Lord  for  this  wonderful 
Temple  block,  for  the  flowers,  and  for  all  the  buildings  that  are  here. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  May  we  so  order 
our  lives  that  by  our  diligence,  our  faithfulness,  our  honesty,  our 
integrity,  our  uprightness  in  all  the  walks  of  life,  we  can  preach  the 
gospel,  is  my  most  sincere  and  earnest  prayer  for  every  soul  who  has 
a  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.    Even  so,  amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Worthy  the  Lamb." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  President  Anthony  W.  Ivins* 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing,  assisted  by  B. 
Cecil  Gates.  Accompaniments  and  interludes  were  played  on  the* 
great  organ  by  Edward  P.  Kimball,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Frank  W.  Asper, 
and  Alexander  Schreiner. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present    i 

Authorities,  Presentation  of  128 

Allred,  Elder  John  G   57 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J  107 

Truth  will  prevail,  107 — A  testing  time,  108 — Our  nation's  secur- 
ity, 108— The  attitude  of  the  Church,  109=— A  new  test,  110— A 
glorious  age,  111 — God's  promises  to  be  realized,  111. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O  125 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A  126 

Cannon,  Elder  Hugh  J  22 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q  47 

Temporal  and  spiritual  affairs,  47 — Labor— a  command  of  God, 
48 — Benefits  of  physical  labor,  49 — Specialization  of  labor,  49 — 
Opportunities  for  employment,  50— No  clergy— no  laity — all  to 
labor,  50 — Mental  and  physical  effort,  51 — Idlers  have  no  place  in 
Zion,  51 — Dedication  of  our  labor  and  time  to  the  Lord, '52. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   44 

A  perplexing  question,  44 — The  author  of  life,  44 — What  is  man? 
45 — The  purpose  of  life,  45 — Marriage  for  eternity,  46. 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   22 

General  Authorities  Present   1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  128 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  128 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  130 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


Changes  in  stake  and  mission  officers  since  last  conference,  2 — 
Expenditures  for  church  edifices,  3 — Visits  missions,  3 — Buildings 
dedicated,  4 — Buildings  in  course  of  construction,  4 — An  interest- 
ing and  profitable  trip,  5 — The  Lord's  promises  to  be  fulfilled, 

6 —  Blessings  predicated  upon  observance  of  Word  of  Wisdom, 

7 —  Influence  of  the  priesthood,  8— Counsel  regarding  voting,  9— 
Belief  regarding  governments  and  laws,  10 — Sentiments  of  Abra- 


ham Lincoln,  11. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   65 

General  authorities  and  stake  presidents  excused,  65. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  127 


Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers,  128. 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Grant,  President  Heber  J  129 

Reorganization  of  Relief  Society,  129. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  130 

Rejoice  because  of  accomplishments,  130 — Grateful  for  blessings, 
130. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   40 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   12 

Refused  to  listen,  12— A  choice  land,  13 — Blessed  unto  the  right- 
eous, 14 — Prophecy  fulfilled,  IS — Our  system  of  government,  15 — 
A  published  appeal,  16— Have  not  changed,  17 — Condition  not 
hopeless,  17 — The  Mormon  Pioneers,  18 — To  those  old  paths,  19. 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   70 


Education,  ancient  and  modern,  70 — Science  applied  to  sanitation, 
70 — The  modern  outlook  of  men,  71 — For  preservation  of  public 
health,  71 — Magnitude  of  Chicago's  works,  72 — Recent  elevation 
of  woman,  72 — A  great  Church  school,  73 — This  book  of  Pupin's, 


73 — How  his  mother  guided  him,  73 — Influence  of  mothers,  74 — 
A  decisive  stroke,  74 — A  father's  doubts,  75 — The  youth's  resolve, 

75 —  Pupin's  search  for  "Light,"  76 — Can  psychologists  explain? 

76 —  The  revelation  on  light,  76 — Science  corroborates  revealed 
truth,  77— Read  the  book,  77. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   35 

Keep  the  Faith,  36 — Wlhat  it  means  to  keep  the  faith,  36 — Man's 
relationship  to  the  infinite,  37 — Safe  anchorage,  37 — Ideals  of  our 
young  people,  38 — Keep  clean,  39 — True  manhood  and  true 
womanhood,  39 — Observance  of  law  required,  40. 

Nibley,  President  Charles  W   19 

A  more  liberal  feeling,  20 — Not  so  favorable,  20 — The  call  for 
missionaries,  21 — Dream  mines,  21 — Spend  your  money  wisely, 
21 — Peace  is  coming,  22. 

Pond,  Elder  Noah  S   52 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   29 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   66 

The  need  of  revelation,  66 — "A  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder," 
68 — Appreciative  of  light  and  knowledge,  68 — Chosen  before  birth 
for  special  mission,  69 — Serve  the  Lord,  69. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   95 

Reverence  for  God,  95 — Reverential  respect  for  the  body  of 
man,  95 — The  home  a  sacred  institution,  96 — The  sin  of  pro- 
fanity, 97— Respect  for  law,  97— The  Fatherhood  of  God,  98. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H   83 

Rolapp,  Elder  Henry  H  123 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   44 


INDEX  135 

• 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   66 

Sloan,  Elder  William  R   121 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   26 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert  90 

Divine  ancestry,  90 — The  purpose  of  our  existence,  90 — A  blessed 
age,  91 — The  experience  of  former  civilizations,  91 — A  land  of 
liberty,  92— The  gospel— what  it  is,  93— The  duty  of  parents,  93— 
The  danger  that  confronts  us,  94. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G   81 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   99 

A  world  of  change,  99 — The  plan  of  eternal  progress,  99 — 
Universal  salvation,  100 — Divine  guidance  necessary,  100 — A  ful- 
ness of  truth,  101. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   112 


Work  necessary  for  progress  of  Church,  112 — Life's  Master  work, 
113 — Paul,  the  worker,  114 — Hezekiah  a  man  of  action,  114 — 
The  accomplishments  of  a  prophet,  115 — The  need  of  persever- 
ance, 116. 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E  117 

"Zion  prospers" — is  all  well?  117 — The  momentum  of  the  Church, 
117 — Collectively  or  individually?  118 — The  tithing  system,  119 — 
A  rule  for  computing  your  tithes,  119 — Churches  and  members  of 
churches,  119 — Church  of  Christ  and  churches  of  men,  120. 


Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   90 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  112 

Wells,  Elder  John    32 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   78 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   59 


God's  work  and  man's,  59 — The  Church  on  earth  and  in  heaven, 
59 — Stakes  and  missions,  60 — Independent  and  dependent,  60 — 
The  Eastern  States  Mission,  60 — Worldly  and  heavenly  things, 

61 —  God's  greatest  gift,  61 — What  most  impressed,  61 — The  gospel 
of  common  sense,  61 — The  true  God,  62 — Man  in  the  divine  image, 

62 —  Not  created  out  of  nothing,  62 — Life's  purposes,  63 — Where 
we  shall  spend  eternity,  63 — How  shall  we  spend  eternity?  63 — 
A  Mormon  reply,  64. 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S   54 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar  102 


Can  you  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  are  put  to  you  about 
the  Church? 


THE  OFFICIAL 

History  of  the  Church 

Will  answer  many  of  these  qestions  for  you. 

IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  published  by  the  Church. 
Completing  the  First  Period. 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  introduction  and 
notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and  Private  Library 
should  have  a  set. 

Cloth— Embossed,  per  vol  $2.50  Postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol   3.50 

Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  per  vol   6.00 

The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  connection  with  the 
study  of  Church  History  in  all  of  the  activities  of  the  Church. 


For  the  reader  who  does  not  want  this  exhaustive  history,  we  rec- 
ommend the  one  volume  book  entitled 

Essentials  in  Church  History 

BY  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

"As  the  title  of  the  book  implies,  the  vital  and  essential  points  of 
history  and  doctrine  have  been  selected,  and  as  far  as  possible  arranged 
in  chronological  order." 

PRICE,  CLOTH  BINDING— $1.75 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


Read: 


WHENCE  THIS  GOSPEL  WE  TEACH? 


"Restoration  of  the  Gospel" 

BY  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE 

"This  book  prepared  by  Elder  Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe,  dealing  with 
the  important  subject  of  the  Restoration  of  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
should  be  read  and  its  contents  carefully  considered  by  those  who  are 
seeking  after  truth."  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr. 

PRICE  $1.00  POSTPAID 


A  Book  You  Have  Been  Waiting  For 
An  India  Paper  Edition  of 

JESUS  THE  CHRIST 

THAT  EXCELLENT  TREATISE  BY 
ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Just  Fits  The  Pocket 
An  Excellent  Present  For  The  Missionary  Friend 

PRICE  $5.00  POSTPAID 


ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 

BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

A  consideration  of  the  principal  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

This  book  will  be  helpful  to  all  who  desire  a  clear  and  concrete 
exposition  of  the  beliefs  and  attitudes  of  the  "Mormons." 

LIBRARY  EDITION.  BLUE  CLOTH.  $1.00  POSTPAID 
MISSIONARY  EDITION.  BROWN  CLOTH.  50c  POSTPAID 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


