ONE  HUNDRED  FIFTH 

Annual 

(Conference 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

April  5,  6,  7,  1935 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


A  THRILLING  STORY 

of  Century  One  of 

CHURCH  HISTORY 

ERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time 
win  the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a 
COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H. 
Roberts  has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set 
down  the  record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  bril- 
liant appraisal  of  momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a 
sentimental  interest  will  be  fascinated  with  this  narrative 
of  truth  stranger  than  fiction;  the  reader  who  approaches 
the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision  of  the  historian  will 
find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact,  copious  in  detail 
and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was 
written  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaus- 
tively complete,  from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close 
of  the  Centennial  Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final 
volume  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Conference  itself,  mak- 
ing the  history  technically  inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in 
Century  One  of  the  organized  existence  of  the  Church.  Thus 
it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of  one  hundred  years  of  strug- 
gle and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  his- 
tory of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in 
AMERICANA,  running  serially  for  six  years  through  that 
magazine,  yet  this  History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of 
material,  new  in  method  of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical 
representation  of  the  book  maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  Fifth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  and  Fifth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  April  5,  6,  and  7,  1935. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the  pro- 
ceedings of  all  the  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  broadcast  by  radio, 
for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  at  each  of  the  sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
and  David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John 
A.  Widtsoe,*  Charles  A.  Callis,  and  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John 
H.  Taylor,  and  Rufus  K.  Hardy. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors  and  high  councilors  from 
each  stake. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents:  Don  B.  Colton,  Eastern  States;  George  S. 
Romney,  Northern  States ;  Wilf  ord  W.  Richards,  North  Central  States ; 
Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Central  States;  James  M.  Kirkham,  East  Central 
States  ;  LeGrand  Richards,  Southern  States  ;  James  M.  Peterson,  Texas  ; 
Joseph  J.  Daynes,  Western  States ;  Nicholas  G.  Smith,  California ;  Jo- 
seph Quinney,  Jr.,  Northwestern  States ;  John  V.  Bluth,  Canada ;  Harold 
W.  Pratt,  Mexico;  Joseph  S.  Peery,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah. 


*Joseph  F.  Merrill  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FIRST  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 
Friday,  April  5,  1935. 

When  the  time  for  commencing  the  Conference  arrived  the  large 
auditorium  and  galleries  of  the  great  Tabernacle  were  filled,  nearly  every 
seat  being  occupied,  with  people  from  the  various  stakes  and  missions 
of  the  Church. 

The  first  session  began  promptly  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  at  which  time 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  that  the  Relief  Society  Singing- 
Mothers,  under  the  direction  of  Charlotte  O.  Sackett,  would  furnish  the 
music  for  this  meeting,  and  would  join  with  the  congregation  in  singing, 
as  an  opening  number,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Clifford  E.  Young,  President  of  the  Alpine  Stake. 

The  hymn,  "God  Moves  in  a  Mysterious  Way,"  was  sung  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  Harold  H.  Bennett,  soloist. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Read  the  financial  and  statistical  report  of  the  Church,  as  follows : 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

The  expenditures  by  the  Church  for  year  1934: 
Stake  and  Ward  Purposes: 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  stakes 
and  wards  for  the  construction  of  ward  and  stake 


meetinghouses  $  197,903.90 

For  ward  maintenance  expenses   634,317.73 

For  stake  maintenance  expenses   201,426.30 


$1,033,647.93 

Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  Church  school 

system   $  459,580.65 

Temples : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of 

temples   $  151,539.91 

Charities : 

For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable 

purposes,  including  hospital  treatment  $  158,149.86 

Missionary  Wprk : 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions, 
and  for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and 
other  buildings  in  the  missions  $  593,459.62 

Total  [  $2,396,377.97 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  >0.  McKAY 


3 


Which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  other 
Church  funds  and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in- 
Trust  to  the  Saints  for  the  maintenance  and  oper- 
ation of  the  stakes  and  wards,  for  the  mainte- 
nance and  operation  of  Church  schools  and  tem- 
ples, for  charities  and  mission  activities. 
Other  Charities: 

In  addition  to  charities  paid  from  the  tithes  as  before 
named,  there  has  also  been  disbursed  the  fast 
offerings,  other  charities  and  assistance  rendered 
by  the  Relief  Society  in  the  sum  of  $360,116.40, 
which  amount,  added  to  the  $158,149.86  paid 
from  the  tithes,  makes  the  total  charity  assistance 


rendered  by  the  Church  $  518,266.26 

Expended  for  the  Maintenance  of  Missionaries : 

There  has  been  collected  by  the  various  wards  of  the 
Church  and  paid  to  missionaries  to  assist  in  their 

maintenance   .$  59,892.65 

Average  cost  per  missionary  in  the  missions  during 
the  year  1934,  $28.85  per  month,  or  a  total  of 
$364.20  per  year  per  missionary.  There  was  an 
average  of  1,052  missionaries  in  the  various  mis- 
sions during  1934,  making  a  total  average  expense 

for  the  year,  ($364.20  x  1,052)   $  364,202.40 

Estimated  average  earnings  per  missionary  $900.00 
per  year  x  1,052,  average  number  of  missionaries, 
makes  an  estimated  total  of  what  these  mission- 
aries might  have  earned  if  at  home  of  $  946,800.00 

making  a  total  estimated  contribution  of  mission- 
aries and  their  families  to  the  Church  for  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel  $1,370,895.05 


STATISTICS  AND  OTHER  DATA  COMPILED  FROM  THE 
ANNUAL  REPORTS  FOR  THE  YEAR  1934 

There  were  on  December  31, 1934:  110  Stakes  of  Zion ;  954  Wards ; 
81  Independent  Branches ;  33  Dependent  Branches,  or  a  total  of  1,068 
wards  and  branches  in  the  stakes  of  Zion;  also,  31  missions  (including 


the  European  Mission),  871  mission  branches,  and  202'  districts. 

Church  M ember sJup  : 

Stakes  579,118 

Missions   '.  151,620 


Total   ,  730,738 

Church  Growth : 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church 

in  the  stakes  and  misisons   2D,  103 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions   14,753 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Converts  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions    7,407 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December 

31,1934   1>249 

Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December 

31,  1934    52 

Number  of  local  missionaries    82 


Total  number  of  missionaries  on  foreign  missions   1,383 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes   1,633 


Total  Missionaries  

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Mis 

sionary  Home   

Persons  recommended  to  the  temples  from  the  stakes  

Social  Statistics: 

Birth  rate,  27.7  per  thousand. 
Marriage  rate,  17.3  per  thousand. 
Death  rate,  7.1  per  thousand. 
Families  owning  their  own  homes,  61.2  per  cent. 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS  SINCE  LAST  OCTOBER 

CONFERENCE 

Auxiliary  Association  Changes : 

Released — General  Superintendency  of  Sunday  Schools: 

President  David  O.  McKay ;  Stephen  L.  Richards ;  George 
D.  Pyper. 
Appointed — 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent, 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  General  Superintendent, 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  General  Superintendent. 
Released — General  Superintendency  of  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A. 

George  Albert  Smith ;  Richard  R.  Lyman ;  Melvin  J.  Ballard. 
Appointed — ■ 

Albert  E.  Bowen,  General  Superintendent, 
George  Q.  Morris,  First  Assistant  General  Superintendent, 
Frank  L.  West,  Second  Assistant  General  Superintendent. 
New  Mission  Presidents: 

Reinhold  Stoof  released  as  President  of  the  South  American  Mission. 
The  Mission  was  divided  and  W.  Ernest  Young  was  appointed  President 
of  the  Argentine  Mission  and  Rulon  S.  Howells,  President  of  the  Brazil 
Mission. 

Joseph  J.  Cannon  succeeded  James  H.  Douglas  as  President  of  the 
British  Mission. 

Nicholas  G.  Smith  succeeded  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  as  President  of 
the  California  Mission. 

Abel  S.  Rich  succeeded  John  V.  Bluth  as  President  of  the  Canadian 
Mission. 


3,016 

720 
79,089 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


5 


M.  Charles  Woods  appointed  President  of  the  New  Zealand 
Mission  to  succeed  Alvin  Thomas  Maughan  who  was  Acting- President. 

LeGrand  P.  Backman  succeeded  Don  Mack  Dalton  as  President 
of  the  South  African  Mission.  . 

Philemon  M.  Kelly  succeeded  Francis  Salzner  as  President  of  the 
Swiss  and  German  Mission. 

James  M.  Peterson  succeeded  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr.  as  President 
of  the  Texas  Mission. 
New  Temple  Presidents: 

Charles  R.  Jones  succeeded  David  K.  Udall  as  President  of  the 
Arizona  Temple. 

William  A.  Noble  appointed  President  of  the  Logan  Temple  to 
succeed  Joseph  R.  Shepherd,  deceased. 

New  Stakes  Organized: 

Gridley  and  Sacramento  Stakes,  from  the  California  Mission. 

Also  San  Bernardino  Stake  from  the  same  mission. 

New  York  Stake  from  the  Eastern  States  Mission. 

San  Francisco  Stake  was  divided  into  the  Oakland  and  San 
Francisco  Stakes. 
New  Stake  Presidents: 

Archie  R.  Boyack  succeeded  Edward  W.  Croft  as  President  of  the 
Big  Horn  Stake. 

Scott  B.  Brown  succeeded  Heber  Q.  Hale  as  President  of  the  Boise 
Stake. 

John  C.  Todd  appointed  President  of  the  Gridley  Stake. 

Fred  G.  Taylor  appointed  President  of  the  New  York  Stake. 

Mark  W.  Cram  appointed  President  of  the  Sacramento  Stake. 

Stephen  H.  Winter  appointed  President  of  the  San  Francisco 
Stake.  President  W.  Aird  Macdonald  retained  as  President  of  the 
Oakland  Stake. 

Albert  Lyndon  Larsen  appointed  President  of  the  San  Bernardino 
Stake. 

James  Brown,  Jr.  succeeded  William  R.  Smith  as  President  of  the 
Woodruff  Stake. 

New  Wards  Organized : 

Alameda  Ward,  Oakland  Stake,  was  formerly  an  independent 
branch  of  the  San  Francisco  Stake. 

Safford  Ward,  St.  Joseph  Stake,  was  part  of  the  Layton  Ward 
of  that  stake. 

Arlington  Ward,  Hollywood  Stake,  formerly  part  of  the  Wilshire 
Ward. 

Burlingame  Ward,  San  Francisco  Stake,  formerly  an  independent 
branch  of  that  stake. 

Palo  Alto  and  San  Jose  Wards,  San  Francisco  Stake,  formerly 
branches  of  the  California  Mission. 

Heber  and  Linden  Wards,  Snowflake  Stake,  formerly  dependent 
branches  of  that  stake. 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Hanksville  Ward,  Wayne  Stake,  formerly  a  dependent  branch. 

Corning,  Gridley,  Liberty,  Nevada  City,  Oroville  and  Yuba  City 
Wards  in  Gridley  Stake,  taken  from  the  California  Mission. 

Brooklyn,  East  Orange,  Manhattan  and  Queens  Wards,  New  York 
Stake,  were  formerly  branches  in  the  EastenTStates  Mission. 

Homestead,  Roseville,  Sacramento,  Stockton  and  Sutter  Wards  in 
the  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  branches  of  the  California  Mission. 

Baldwin  Park,  Ontario,  Riverside  and  San  Bernardino  Wards,  San 
Bernardino  Stake,  formerly  branches  of  the  California  Mission. 
New  Independent  Branches : 

Leadore  Branch,  Lost  River  Stake. 

Belfry  Branch,  Big  Horn  Stake. 

San  Fernando  Branch,  Hollywood  Stake. 

Bay  Ridge  and  Westchester  Branches,  New  York  Stake. 

Tracy  Branch,  Sacramento  Stake. 

Echo  Branch,  Summit  Stake. 
Wards  and  Branches  Disorganised : 

Victor  Ward,  Emery  Stake,  joined  to  Elmo  Ward. 

Echo  Ward,  Summit  Stake,  organized  into  an  independent  branch. 

Mt.  Sherman  Branch,  Idaho  Stake,  joined  to  Soda  Springs  Ward. 

Darlington  Ward,  Lost  River  Stake,  joined  to  Leslie  Ward. 
Those  Who  Have  Died: 

_  Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor  in  General  Presidency  of  the 
Relief  Society. 

Joseph  R.  Shepherd,  Logan  Temple  President. 

Joseph  A.  Larson,  Hamilton  Ward  Bishop. 

Fred  G.  Gardiner,  Panguitch  South  Ward  Bishop. 
Second  Counselor  to  General  President  of  Relief  Society: 

Appointed — Kate  M.  Barker. 

"O  Ye  Mountains  High,"  was  sung  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  Emma  Lucy  Gates  Bowen,  soloist. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  a  real  pleasure  to  have  the  opportunity  again  of  assembling  with 
the  Saints  m  general  conference.  All  of  us  undoubtedly  rejoice  in  the 
remarkable  growth  of  the  Church. 

CHURCH  GROWTH 

I  recall  that  we  did  not  have  thirty  stakes  when,  fifty-two  years  ago, 
I  was  made  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  I  recall  that  when 
visiting  Rexburg,  then  a  branch  of  a  ward  in  Cache  Valley,  we  had  but 
1300  people  north  of  Cache  Valley;  we  now  have,  I  am  sure,  more  than 
100,000  in  that  section,  counting  those  that  are  in  Canada. 

Just  before  becoming  one  of  the  Apostles  I  traveled  from  Tooele  to 
Salt  Lake  City,  then  through  Salt  Lake,  Davis,  Weber  and  Box  Elder 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


stakes  to  Brigham  City,  and  two  days  and  a  fraction  west,  sleeping  on  the 
ground  two  nights,  to  visit  a  branch  of  the  Grantsville  ward  of  the  Tooele 
stake  of  Zion.  We  now  have  half  a  dozen  stakes  west  of  Brigham  City. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  CHANGE  IN  SENTIMENT 

I  rejoice  in  the  organization  of  new  stakes  in  California,  and  of  one 
in  New  York.  When  I  think  of  the  opposition  toward  the  Church  in 
early  days  by  the  people  of  New  York;  of  the  opposition  toward  our 
people  in  Ohio,  and  in  Far  West ;  of  their  expulsion  from  Missouri  under 
an  exterminating  order  of  the  governor  of  the  state;  when  I  think  that 
Joseph  Smith  and  others  of  his  companions  were  condemned  to  be  shot 
by  order  of  a  court  martial,  I  am  grateful  for  a  change  in  sentiment 
toward  our  people. 

When  I  think  of  Nauvoo,  the  largest  city  in  Illinois  at  that  time,  with 
20,000  inhabitants,  that  the  people  had  to  leave  that  city,  and  that  after 
Brigham  Young  and  the  able-bodied  men  had  left  the  remnant  were 
driven  out  by  a  mob,  I  am  grateful  for  the  change  that  has  taken  place. 
No  tongue  can  tell  and  no  pen  can  paint  the  hardships  that  our  people 
endured  in  Missouri  and  Illinois. 

During  the  three  long  years  that  I  presided  over  the  European  and 
British  missions  I  was  unable  to  get  a  single,  solitary  article  into  any 
newspaper  in  any  part  of  the  British  Isles,  refuting  some  of  the  vilest 
and  most  wicked  slanders  that  were  circulated  about  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  Today  throughout  the  entire  British  Isles  reporters  attend  our 
meetings  and  make  honorable  and  straightforward  reports  regarding 
them. 

At  the  time  of  the  organization  of  a  stake  in  New  York  the  leading 
newspapers  of  that  great  city  gave  us  splendid  notices,  and  there  were 
no  unfavorable  comments.  When  I  think  of  these  things  and  of  the 
wonderful  growth  of  the  Church,  from  about  200,000  when  I  was  made 
an  apostle  to  more  than  700,000  today,  my  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude. 
When  I  realize  the  good  will  that  was  extended  to  me  upon  the  occasion 
when  I  spoke,  in  1920,  before  the  Knife  and  Fork  club  at  Kansas  City, 
at  which  time  I  was  given  the  privilege  of  talking  an  hour,  while  the 
other  two  men  on  the  program — one  of  them  the  president,  I  think,  of  a 
university  near  Chicago — were  each  given  but  half  an  hour,  and  I  was 
advertised  as  the  principal  speaker,  this  having  taken  place  ten  miles 
from  where  our  people  were  located  at  the  time  they  were  driven  out  by 
the  exterminating  order  of  the  governor  of  the  state,  my  heart  is  full  of 
gratitude  and  thanksgiving.  I  believe  that  today  the  name  "Mormon", 
if  a  man  is  living  in  accordance  with  the  teachings  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ, 
is  a  certificate  of  good-will  and  character,  as  far  as  those  are  concerned 
who  know  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

THE  GIFT  OF  FAITH 

I  am  grateful  that  from  the  time  I  was  a  child  until  the  present  I 
have  been  blessed  with  the  gift  of  faith,  which  is  a  gift  from  God.  I 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


recall  many  things  as  a  young  man  I  did  not  understand,  and  could  not 
comprehend,  yet  which  I  believed  and  believed  firmly.  One  of  the 
things  which  I  believed,  but  which  seemed  to  be  an  impossibility,  was  the 
statement  that  every  ear  should  hear  and  every  eye  should  see. 


SPEAKS  TO  WORLD 


/  rejoice  that  only  last  Saturday  evening — or  I  should  say  Sunday 
morning  at  12:30—7  had  the  privilege  of  broadcasting  over  Station  KSL 
a  message  from  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  the  people  of  the  world,  and  that 
later  in  the  day  a  cablegram  was  received  all  the  way  from  Tokio,  Japan: 

"Snowing,  thousands  enjoying  program." 

I  have  been  requested  by  several  people  to  furnish  them  with  a  copy 
of  that  speech,  and  I  have  decided  to  read  it  here  today  in  order  to  get 
it  into  our  record: 

I  am  delighted  to  have  this  opportunity  to  send  my  message  of  love 
and  blessing  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  throughout  the  world,  and  to  all 
others  who  may  be  listening  in. 

If  time  permitted  I  am  sure  my  listeners  would  be  interested  in 
'hearing  all  of  the  Articles  of  Faith  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  which 
I  represent  tonight,  and  our  "Declaration  of  Belief  regarding  Govern- 
ments and  Laws  in  general." 

The  fifth  Article  reads: 

We  believe  that  a  man  must  be  called  of  God  by  prophecy,  and  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands,  by  those  who  are  in  authority  to  preach  the  Gospel  and  administer 
in  the  ordinances  thereof. 

CLAIM  OF  AUTHORITY 

We  claim  that  authority  and  declare  to  all  the  world  that  John  the 
Baptist,  who  held  the  keys  of  authority  to  baptize,  restored  the  Aaronic 
priesthood,  and  bestozved  it  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery; 
also  that  Peter,  James  and  John,  Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
restored  the  higher  or  Melchisedek  priesthood,  by  ordaining  these  same 
men  to  the  Apostleship. 

The  eleventh  Article  of  Faith  reads: 

We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping  Almighty  God  according  to  the  dictates 
of  our  own  conscience,  and  allozv  all  men  the  same  privilege,  let  them  worship  how 
where,  or  wlxat  they  may. 

The  thirteenth  Article  reads  in  part: 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous  and  in  doing 
good  to  all  men  .  If  there  is  anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report  or  praise- 
worthy, we  seek  after  these  things. 

REGARDING  GOVERNMENTS 

Quoting  from  "A  Declaration  of  Belief:" 

We  believe  that  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit  of  man; 
and  that  hehelds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation  to  them,  both  in  making 
laws  and  administer -nig  them,  for  the  good  and  safety  of  society. 

We  believe  that  no  government  can  exist  in  peace,  except  such)  laws  are  framed 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each  individual  the  free  exercise  of  conscience, 
the  right  and  control  of  property,  and  the  protection  of  life.  .  .  . 

We  believe  that  all  men  are  bound  to  sustain  and  uphold  the  respective  gov- 
ernments in  which  they  reside,  while  protected  in  their  inhernt  and  inalienable 
rights  by  the  laws  of  such  governments ;  and  that  sedition  and  rebellion  are 
unbecoming  every  citizen  thus  protected,  and  should  be  punished  accordingly ;  and 
that  all  governments  have  a  right  to  enact  such  lazvs  as  in  their  own  judgments 
are  best  calculated' to*  secure  the  public  interest;  ai  the  same  time,  however,  holding 
sacred  the  freedom  of  conscience.  .  .  . 

We  do  not  beleive  it  just  to  mingle  religious  influence^  with  civil  government, 
zvhereby  one  religious  society  is  fostered  and  another  proscribed  in  its  spiritual 
privileges,  and  the  individual  rights  of  its  members,  as  citizens,  denied. 

OUR  MESSAGE  TO  THE  WORLD 

What  the  world  needs  today  more  than  anything  else  is  an  implicit 
faith  in  God,  our  Father,  and  in  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son,  as  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  The  message  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  to  the  world  is  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  and  that 
they  appeared  to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  and  promised  him  that  he  should 
be  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  restoring  the  true  Gospel 
to  the  world.  I  quote  from  a  Vision  given  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney 
Rigdon: 

And  this  is  the  Gospel,  the  glad  tidings,  which  the  voice  out  of  the  heavens  bore 
record  unto  us — 

That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world,  and  to 
bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse  it  from  all 
unrighteousness  ; 

That  through  him  all  might  be  saved  whom  the  Father  had  put  into  his  power 
and  made  by  him. 

Who  glorifies  the  Father,  and  saves  all  the  works  of  his  hands,  except  those  sons 
of  perdition  who  deny  the  Son  after  the  Father  has  revealed  him. 

And  again  from  the  same  Vision : 

And  we  beheld  the  glory  of  the  Son,  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father,  and  re- 
ceived of  his  fulness; 

And  saw  the  holy  angels,  and  them  who  are  sanctified  before  his  throng,  wor- 
shiping God,  and  the  Lamb,  who  worship  him  forever  and  ever. 

And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is,  the 
testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  "Voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  zvorlds  are  and  ivere  created, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God. 

WIDE  MINISTRY 

It  has  been  my  great  privilege  to  bear  this  testimony  in  England, 
Ireland,  Scotland,  Wales,  Germany,  France,  Holland,  Belgium,  Switzer- 
land, Italy,  Norway,  Sweden,  Denmark,  Canada,  Mexico,  in  the  Hawaiian 
Islands  and  in  far-off  Japan,  and  to  lift  up  my  voice  declaring  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  his  beloved  Son  have  again  spoken  from  the 
heavens,  that  the  Gospel  of  our  Redeemer  has  been  restored  to  the  earth, 
and  to  bear  witness  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  I  know  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God  and  the  Redeemer  of  mankind, 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of 
the  Lord  in  restoring  the  everlasting  Gospel. 

My  appeal  to  all  members  of  the  Church  who  possess  this  same 
testimony  is  so  to  live  that  other  men  seeing  their  good  deeds  shall  be 
inspired  to  investigate  the  Gospel  of  our  Redeemer. 

Words  fail  me  in  expressing  my  heartfelt  gratitude  to  God  for  the 
radio,  which  gives  me  this  opportunity  of  bearing  my  testimony  to  all  the 
people  of  the  tvorld  of  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I 
pray  the  Lord  to  bless  all  mankind  in  these  troublous  times,  that  wisdom 
may  be  given  to  men  in  every  land  so  to  live  that  peace  may  come  to 
the  peoples  of  the  zvorld. 

(End  of  radio  address  to  world.) 

GRATEFUL  FOR  FAITH 

I  am  utterly  at  a  loss  to  express  my  gratitude  for  the  faith  that 
I  had  as  a  child  that  the  day  would  come  when  every  ear  should  hear. 
I  am  grateful  also  for  the  faith  that  I  had  at  that  same  time  that  every 
eye  should  see.  Some  years  ago  it  was  my  privilege  while  in  New  York, 
and  while  in  a  large  building  twenty  or  .thirty  stories  high,  to  talk  to  my 
daughter  and  my  granddaughter  by  television,  they  being  three  or  four 
miles  away  at  the  time,  and  I  saw  them  perfectly. 

READS  ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 

I  am  grateful  indeed  for  every  blessing  that  has  come  to  me  be- 
cause of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation,  and  inasmuch  as  what,  I  am  saying  is  being  broadcast  I  am 
going  to  read  all  of  the  Articles  of  our  Faith,  although  I  suppose  that 
every  soul  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  in  this  building  and  all 
Latter-day  Saints  throughout  the  world  are  familiar  with  these  Articles, 
and  nearly  all  our  children  can  repeat  them.  I  remember  learning 
them  as  a  little  child  in  the  Sunday  school,  but  as  there  may  be  many 
people  in  different  parts  of  the  world  who  are  hearing  what  is  said  here 
today,  as  I  said  in  my  message  to  the  world,  I  would  like  to  repeat  all  of 
the  articles.  Time  would  not  permit  my  doing  so  then  as  I  only  had  ten 
minutes,  and  kept  within  the  limit  given  to  me. 

We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

When  we  say  that  we  believe  in  God  we  mean  that  we  believe 
in  him  as  an  individuality,  as  actually  the  Father  of  Jesus  Christ— not 
a  congeries  of  laws  floating  through  the  universe  without  form  and  void, 
but  we  believe  him  to  be  the  Father  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  is  the  God  whom 
we  as  Latter-day  Saints  worship;  and  we  believe  Jesus  Christ  to  be, 
not  only  one  of  the  great  moral  teachers,  the  greatest  the  world  has  ever 
known,  but  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  that  he  came 
to  earth  with  a  divinely  appointed  mission,  to  die  on  the  cross,  in  order 
that  you  and  I  and  all  eventually  may  have  part  in  the  resurrection. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  11 


We  believe  that  men  will  be  punished  for  their  own  sins,  and  not  for  Adam's 
transgression. 

In  other  words,  "as  in  Adam  all  die,  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made 
alive." 

We  believe  that,  through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may  be  saved, 
by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

NEED  OF  OBEDIENCE 

We  believe  emphatically  in  what  it  says,  "by  obedience  to  the  laws 
and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel."  We  have  no  faith  in  death-bed  repent- 
ance. We  have  no  faith  that  by  making  a  confession  just  before  death 
we  can  be  saved. 

We  believe  that  the  first  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are :  First, 
faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ ;  second,  repentance ;  third,  baptism  by  immersion 
for  the  remission  of  sins;  fourth,  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

We  invite  men  to  read  a  book  entitled  "Articles  of  Faith"  which 
contains  the  scriptural  references  to  sustain  our  position. 

We  believe  that  a  man  must  be  called  of  God,  by  prophecy,  and  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands,  by  those  who  are  in  authority,  to  preach  the  Gospel  and  administer 
in  the  ordinances  thereof. 

As  I  have  already  stated  in  my  address  to  the  world,  we  claim  that 
authority. 

We  believe  in  the  same  organization  that  existed  in  the  primitive  Church, 
namely,  apostles,  prophets,  pastors,  teachers,  evangelists,  etc. 

INDIVIDUAL  TESTIMONIES 

There  would  be  no  need  of  believing  in  these  various  officers 
unless  they  have  the  inspiration  of  the  living  God  and  magnify  the  offices 
they  hold.  Unless  Joseph  Smith  was  in  fact  and  in  very  deed  a  prophet 
of  the  living  God,  the  whole  structure  called  Mormonism  falls.  But  we 
know,  it  is  not  a  matter  of  belief.  Latter-day  Saints  have  individually 
almost  without  exception  been  given  testimonies  of  the  divine  mission 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Hundreds  and  thousands,  yes,  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  people  who  have  never  gathered  to  Zion,  who  have 
never  lived  in  a  stake  of  Zion,  from  the  midnight  sun  country  of 
Scandinavia  down  to  South  Africa,  have  been  blessed  with  individual 
testimonies  in  answer  to  earnest  prayer,  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  in  very  deed  his  Son,  also  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God. 

The  statement  made  by  the  Angel  Moroni  before  the  Church  was 
born,  that  Joseph  Smith's  name  should  be  had  for  good  and  evil  all 
over  the  world,  has  been  fulfilled,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the 
statement  at  the  time  was  ridiculed  and  Joseph  Smith  branded  as  an 
ignoramus. 

PATRIARCHAL  BLESSINGS 

Unless  the  evangelist  or  patriarch  is  able,  under  the  inspiration  of 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


God,  to  give  blessings  which  are  fulfilled,  then  there  is  nothing  gained 
by  believing  in  evangelists.  As  a  little  child  I  received  a  patriarchal 
blessing  in  which  I  was  promised  practically  the  very  things  that  have 
happened  to  me  all  my  life.  When  I  was  a  young  man  presiding  over 
the  Tooele  stake  of  Zion,  the  patriarch  of  that  stake  blessed  my  little  baby, 
who  was  then  six  months  old,  and  promised  her  that  she  should  live 
to  become  a  mother;  that  she  should  live  to  become  one  of  the  leaders 
of  her  sisters.  Subsequently  when  she  was  in  a  dying  condition  from 
diphtheria,  a  spiritualistic  medium  decreed  her  death.  Thank  God  for 
the  priesthood  that  is  upon  the  earth  and  the  authority  of  that  priesthood. 
George  Q.  Cannon  and  Hiram  B.  Clawson  being  in  Washington  at  the 
time,  I  sent  for  them  to  come  and  administer  to  my  little  girl,  who,  as  I 
recall  it,  was  then  between  twelve  and  thirteen  years  of  age,  and  they 
promised  her  that  she  should  live  and  become  a  mother ;  and  George  Q. 
Cannon  said  something  I  had  never  heard  before,  neither  have  I  heard  it 
since. 

He  said : 

The  adversary,  the  destroyer,  has  decreed  your  death,  and  made  public  an- 
nouncement of  it,  but  by  the  authority  of  the  priesthood  of  the  living  God  that  we 
hold  we  rebuke  that  decree  and  promise  you  life. 

THE  ADVERSARY'S  DECREE  REBUKED 

I  thought  time  and  time  again  of  that  remarkable  statement.  The 
day  that  I  was  to  leave  Washington,  the  lady  who  kept  the  boarding  house 
where  we  were  staying  was  away  and  her  husband  was  in  charge. 

He  said : 

Mr.  Grant,  I  cannot  resist  the  temptation  to  tell  you  that  when  your  children 
became  sick  my  wife  visited  her  medium — she  believes  in  spiritualistic  mediums — 
and  her  medium  told, her  that  she  saw  in  her  home  two  little  girls;  that  the  older 
one  was  taken  sick  nigh  unto  death;  that  the  next  little  girl  was  taken  sick  and 
was  nigh  unto  death.  She  finally  saw  the  older  girl  recover,  then  she  saw  the  little 
girl  die,  and  she  saw  her  body  taken  to  a  railroad  station ;  she  saw  it  taken  on  a 
train  through  many  large  cities,  and  stop  in  a  large  city,  and  change  cars.  She  saw 
it  cross  a  large  river  [you  all  know  that  one  has  to  cross  the  Mississippi  river  to 
come  here]  she  saw  it  pass  through  some  more  cities  and  cross  another  large  river, 
and  then  travel  through  a  sparsely  settled  country. 

(Forty  years  ago  the  country  west  of  the  Missouri  was  rather 
sparsely  settled). 

She  then  saw  the  train  climbing  mountains,  mountains,  mountains,  going  west 
all  the  time.  She  then  saw  it  go  south  for  a  short  distance  [from  Ogden  to  Salt 
Lake  of  course.]  She  then  saw  it  stop  in  a  valley  almost  completely  surrounded 
by  mountains,  and  then  the  body  was  taken  to  the  hill  side  and  deposited  in  the 
grave. 

Thank  God  for  the  power  of  the  priesthood  that  rebuked  the  decree 
of  the  adversary,  which  decree  had  been  made  public. 

BLESSINGS  FULFILLED 

As  I  stated  before,  the  patriarch  in  Tooele  blessed  this  girl  when  a 
babe  six  months  of  age  and  said  that  she  would  live  and  become  a  mother. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


He  afterwards  said  that  he  would  like  to  give  me  a  blessing,  and  in  that 
blessing  he  promised  me  that  I  should  be  chosen  as  one  of  the  leaders 
of  this  people  and  become  a  leader  of  great  magnitude,  and  not  until 
after  I  became  the  President  of  the  Church  did  I  ever  mention  what  he 
said  to  me,  and  the  impression  that  came  to  me  at  the  time. 

He  said :  "Brother  Grant,  I  saw  something  that  I  dare  not  put  in 
your  blessing." 

And  that  still  small  voice  that  I  have  heard  so  many  times  in  my  life, 
making  no  noise,  no  sound,  said  to  me,  "and  you  shall  live  to  presjide 
over  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 

I  was  ashamed  of  myself  that  I  should  imagine  such  a  thing.  I 
never  breathed  it,  I  never  mentioned  it  to  a  soul  until  after,  in  the 
providences  of  the  Lord,  that  position  came  to  me. 

We  believe  in  the  gift  of  tongues,  prophecy,  revelation,  visions,  healing,  inter- 
pretation of  tongues,  etc. 

THE  GIFT  OF  TONGUES 

There  is  no  need  of  believing  in  these  things  unless  we  have  them. 
I  was  a  child  playing  on  the  floor  in  a  Relief  Society  meeting  (my  mother 
was  president  of  the  Thirteenth  ward  Relief  Society  for  thirty  long 
years  and  only  resigned  because  of  her  hearing  having  failed)  when 
Eliza  R.  Snow  blessed  by  the  gift  of  tongues  each  of  the  presidents  that 
happened  to  be  in  that  meeting,  and  Zina  D.  Young  gave  the  interpreta- 
tion. After  doing  this  she  turned  to  the  child  (myself)  playing  upon 
the  floor,  and  gave  me  a  blessing,  and  Zina  D.  Young  gave  the  inter- 
pretation. 

My  mother  often  said  to  me.  "Heber,  behave  yourself  and  you  will 
some  day  be  an  Apostle." 

I  laughed  and  told  her  I  had  no  ambitions  along  that  line.  I  said : 
"Get  it  out  of  your  head.  Every  mother  thinks  that  her  son  will  be  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  or  something  wonderful.  I  do  not  want 
any  Church  position,  I  want  to  be  a  business  man." 

"Never  mind,"  she  said,  "if  you  behave  yourself  you  will  be  an 
Apostle." 

When  I  was  made  an  Apostle  she  asked  me  if  I  remembered  that 
meeting.  I  told  her  I  did. 

"Do  you  remember  anything  that  Sister  Snow  said  ?" 
I  said :  "No,  I  did  not  understand  her." 

"Of  course  you  did  not,  because  she  was  speaking  in  an  unknown 
tongue.    Did  you  understand  anything  that  Aunt  Zina  said  ?" 

"Only  one  thing,  mother,  I  remember  that  as  she  was  talking  she 
lifted  her  hand  and  said  that  I  would  grow  to  be  a  big  man,  and  since  I 
have  grown  tall,  I  have  often  thought  of  that  remark  of  hers." 

She  said:  "She  did  not  say  anything  of  the  kind.  She  said  you 
should  grow  to  be  a  great  big  man  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  become  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ." 

She  then  said :  "Do  you  remember  being  in  a  gathering  in  Brother 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Heber  C.  Kimball's  home  where  there  were  a  great  many  people,  and 
after  the  dinner  Brother  Kimball  picked  you  up  and  put  you  on  the 
table  and  talked  to  you  ?" 

"Yes." 

"Do  you  remember  anything  he  said  ?" 

"Not  a  word.  All  I  remember  is  I  thought  he  had  the  blackest  eyes 
I  ever  looked  at,  and  I  was  frightened." 

"Well,  he  prophesied  that  you  should  become  one  of  the  apostles 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  live  to  be  a  greater  man  in  the  Church  than 
your  own  father;  and  that  is  the  reason  that  I  have  told  you  that  if  you 
would  behave  yourself  you  would  some  day  be  an  Apostle.  I  realized 
that  if  you  did  not  behave  yourself  you  never  would  attain  to  that  posi- 
tion, no  matter  what  you  had  been  promised."  What  she  said  conforms 
to  a  revelation  of  the  Lord  which  says  : 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated— And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated. 

I  could  go  on  relating  evidences  of  the  gift  of  tongues. 

OTHER  ARTICLES 

We  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of  God,  as  far  as  it  is  translated  correctly; 
we  also  believe  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  be  the  word  of  God. 

A  great  banker  in  New  York  said  to  me  after  reading  Colonel  R. 
M.  Bryce  Thomas'  pamphlet,  "My  Reasons  for  Leaving  the  Church  of 
England  and  joining  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints" : 
"Mr.  Grant,  I  am  an  agnostic,  but  a  student  of  the  Bible,  if  I  believed 
the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of  God,  I  do  not  see  how  I  could  be  an  honest 
man  if  after  reading  this  pamphlet  I  did  not  join  your  Church,  because 
the  scriptural  evidences  in  support  of  your  position  cannot  be  contro- 
verted." 

We  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed,  all  that  he  dees  now  reveal,  and  we 
believe  that  he  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and  important  things  pertaining  to  the 
kingdom  of  God. 

We  believe  in  the  literal  gathering  of  Israel  and  in  the  restoration  of  the 
Ten  tribes;  that  Zion  will  be  built  upon  this  (the  American)  continent;  that  Christ 
will  reign  personally  upon  the  earth,  and  that  the  earth  will  be  renewed,  and  receive 
its  paradisiacal  glory. 

We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping  almighty  God  according  to  the  dictates  of 
our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the  same  privilege,  let  them  worship  how, 
where,  or  what  they  may. 

We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers  and  magistrates,  in 
obeying,  honoring  and  sustaining  the  law. 

god's  PLAN 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  sustain  the  law,  and  may  we  obey  the  law 
of  God  and  leave  alone  those  things  that  the  Lord  has  told  us  are  not 
good  for  us.  I  beg  of  all  of  you,  young  and  old,  to  read  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  and  after  reading  it  to  get  down  on  your  knees  and  pray  to 
God  to  help  you  to  observe  it. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


15 


The  nation  is  in  an  awful  condition  today  financially.  God  gave  us 
a  revelation  for  the  temporal  salvation  of  the  people,  and  if  millions  and 
billions  of  dollars  of  money  were  not  expended  for  the  things  which 
God  says  are  not  good  for  man,  peace,  prosperity,  health,  vigor  of  body 
and  of  mind  would  be  enjoyed  by  all  the  people  of  these  United  States. 
The  Word  of  Wisdom  is  God's  plan  for  the  salvation  of  the  people 
temporally,  and  he  lias  said  so.  He  has  said  that  it  is  his  will,  and  if  we 
lived  up  to  the  will  of  God,  peace,  prosperity  and  happiness  would  come 
to  this  nation  and  to  the  whole  world, — if  there  were  no  tea,  coffee, 
tobacco,  or  liquor  used  in  the  world. 

Those  who  are  not  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom  will  say  that  they 
get  sick  and  tired  of  hearing  such  talks.  They  will  get  it  from  me  as  long 
as  I  have  breath. 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing 
good  to  all  men ;  indeed  we  may  say  that  we  follow  the  admonition  of  Paul :  We 
believe  all  things,  we  hope  all  things,  we  have  endured  many  things,  and  hope  to 
be  able  to  endure  all  things.  If  there  is  anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report, 
or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these  things. 

May  God  bless  us  one  and  all,  as  I  said  in  my  address  to  the  world, 
who  have  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  to  live  it,  that  our 
lives  may  teach  it,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer  and  Savior,  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvelve  Apostles 

As  I  listened  to  the  inspirational  address  delivered  by  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  and  the  excellent  music  that  thrilled  our  hearts,  the 
thought  came  to  me  that  we  are  not  far  from  heaven.  I  am  wonder- 
ing whether  the  late  President  Charles  W.  Penrose  was  listening 
when  that  fine  old  hymn  which  he  composed,  "O  Ye  Mountains 
High,"  was  sung  this  morning.  I  believe  that  the  leaders  of  the 
Church  who  have  passed  on,  are  not  far  from  us.   A  poet  said : 

'Tis  the  sunset  of  life  gives  me  mystical  lore, 
And   coming   events   cast  their   shadows  before. 

MOVING  TOWARD  A  GLORIOUS  IDEAL 

The  times  are  out  of  joint.  The  forces  of  evil  are  stirring  up 
agencies,  which  if  left  to  go  unchecked,  will  destroy  civilization  and 
the  hope's  of  humanity.  I  believe  that  despite  all  the  troubles  that 
are  in  the  earth  the  world  is  moving  toward  a  glorious  ideal,  for 
we  believe  "that  Christ  will  reign  personally  upon  the  earth;  and 
that  the  earth  will  be  renewed  and  receive  its  paradisiacal  glory." 
God  is  displaying  "his  rainbow  fair  against  the  swarthy  clouds." 

The  glorious  second  coming  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  foretold 
since  Adam  went  out  of  the  Garden  of  Eden.  This  bright  luminary 
is  eternally  shining  in  the  heavens;  it  is  sustaining  world-weary 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


hearts.  By  the  vision  of  faith  true  followers  of  the  Redeemer  behold 
God  watching  over  his  own.  "Behind  a  frowning  providence  He 
hides  a  smiling  face." 

Colonel  Lawrence  of  Arabian  fame  tells  of  an  Arab  sheik,  who 
after  hearing  the  western  scholar  recount  the  wonders  revealed  by 
the  telescope,  said  :  "You  foreigners  see  millions  of  stars  and  nothing 
beyond.  We  Arabs  see  only  a  few  stars — and  God."  Better  a 
little  learning  with  God  than  much  learning  without  him.  To  be 
learned  is  good,  the  Book  of  Mormon  admonishes  us,  if  we  obey 
the  counsels  of  God. 

The  second  advent  of  the  Savior  is  part  of  the  plan  of  salvation 
by  which  men  may  become  the  sons  of  God.  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  established  and  dedicated  by  the 
power  of  God  for  the  sublime  mission  of  preaching  the  everlasting 
Gospel  to  prepare  the  world  for  the  glorious  second  coming  of  the 
Son  of  God  in  judgment. 

god's  purposes  will  be  accomplished 

Conditions  in  the  world  today  resemble  a  huge  seething  caldron. 
The  perplexities  and  distress  of  nations  are  causing  men's  ,  hearts 
to  fail  them  for  fear.  What  is  going  to  be  done?  Are  God's  pur- 
poses going  to  fall  to  the  ground  unfulfilled?  No!  I  believe  with 
all  my  heart  that  there  is  much  work  to  be  done  in  the  world 
before  the  coming  of  the  Lord.  Using  the  marvelous  discoveries 
of  science,  such  as  the  radio  and  improved  and  faster  means  of 
travel,  the  Lord  will  grant  to  all  his  children  the  opportunity  of 
hearing  the  Gospel  for  he  wills  that  none  of  his  children  shall 
perish  in  ignorance  of  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  And  he. will 
give  the  world  a  season  of  peace  and  rest  in  order  that  the  Gospel 
shall  be  universally  proclaimed. 

The  world  is  an  armed  camp.  It  seems  to  be  the  time  when 
kings  desire  to  go  forth  to  war.  Their  words,  as  the  Bible  says 
"are  as  smooth  as  butter"  but  deep  down  in  their  hearts  there  is 
war.  Only  the  grace  of  God  can  save  the  world  from  a  cataclysm 
that  threatens  to  destroy  civilization  and  bring  despair  to  human- 
ity. God  grant  that  the  statesmen  in  the  nations  who  are  pleading 
and  working  for  peace  shall  have  the  power  of  God  to  be  with 
them  so  that  by  their  labors  distress,  agitation,  disrespect  for  law 
and  desire  for  war  shall  fade  out  of  the  minds  of  men. 

IN  THE  PROMOTION  OF  PEACE 

An  able  editorial  in  our  morning  paper  yesterday  set  forth 
that  the  cost  of  crime  in  its  social  aspects  and  in  its  disregard  for 
aw  is  a  more  tremendous  problem  than  this  depression  and  the 
high  taxation  under  which  the  people  are  groaning.  The  Latter-day 
Saints  should  always  be  first  and  foremost  in  promoting  peace 
not  only  in  the  hearts  of  their  neighbors  but  also  in  their  own 
hearts.    The  peace  and  good  will  we  have  for  all  men  will  go  out 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


17 


of  our  communities  and  be  a  mighty  factor  in  inclining  warlike 
men  to  the  paths  of  peace. 

EVENTS  PRECEDING  CHRIST'S  SECOND  ADVENT 

Two  great  and  awful  events  are  foreshadowed  in  St.  Matthew, 
Chapter  24,  and  also  in  the  21st  Chapter  of  St.  Luke,  namely  the 
destruction  of  Jerusalem  and  the  end  of  the  world,  which  is  the 
destruction  of  the  wicked.  Jesus  wept  over  the  people  who  per- 
ished in  the  flood,  as  he  wept  over  Jerusalem,  for  he  loves  mercy 
more  than  judgment.  The  events  which  preceded  the  destruction 
of  Jerusalem  came  with  terrible  suddenness. 

The  prophecies  in  the  chapters  cited  came  by  the  will  of  God. 
The  Savior  said  to  the  people  of  his  day:  "Ye  can  discern  the  face 
of  the  sky;  but  can  ye  not  discern  the  signs  of  the  times?"  There 
are  many  who  say  that  the  Lord  delays  his  coming.  A  certain 
writer,  in  a  skeptical  spirit,  said  that  the  Apostle  Paul  was  "ob- 
sessed" with  the  idea  of  the  imminence  of  .Christ's  second  coming, 
because  Paul  said  to  the  Saints  of  his  day :  "Let  your  moderation," 
that  is  meekness  and  a  forgiving  spirit,  "be  known  before  all  men : 
the  Lord  is  at  hand."  The  skeptic  ridicules  this  prophetical  declara- 
tion and  derisively  says  that  nearly  two  thousand  years  have 
elapsed  and  the  Lord  is  not  yet  at  hand.  But  this  fateful  prophecy 
was  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter,  for  ten  years  later  the  Lord  was  at 
hand  to  execute  judgment  on  the  Jewish  nation.  The  sufferings 
of  the  Jews  as  detailed  by  Josephus,  an  eye  witness,  are  certainly 
without  parallel  in  human  history.  One  million  Jews  perished  in 
the  siege  of  Jerusalem ;  uncounted  multitudes  were  destroyed  in 
other  cities.  It  was  a  day  of  the  Lord  to  that  unfortunate  people. 
The  Jewish  nation  was  destroyed. 

A  DAY  OF  THE  LORD 

A  day  of  the.  Lord  is  a  period  fixed  by  him  to  execute  judg- 
ment upon  the  nations  of  the  earth.  There  have  been  many  such 
days.  Such  days  are  a  foretaste  of  the  coming  great  and  dreadful 
day  of  the  Lord.  Before  the  destruction  of  Babylon,  Isaiah  thus 
prophesied  to  the  people  of  that  wicked  city :  "Howl  ye :  for  the 
day  of  the  Lord  is  at  hand."  Babylon's  pride  was  humbled  in  utter 
desolation.  It  was  a  day  of  the  Lord  unto  that  corrupt  city :  his 
judgments  were  executed  upon  her.  When  the  Savior  was  crucified 
the  Western  Hemisphere  was  visited  by  terrible  tempests,  thunder, 
earthquakes,  whirlwinds  and  fire,  resulting  in  a  great  and  terrible 
destruction.  This  awful  disaster  killed  many  people.  The  survivors 
in  one  place  cried :  "Oh,  that  we  had  repented  before  this  great  and 
terrible  day."  It  was  a  day  of  the  Lord  unto  the  Nephite  people. 

I  believe  that  the  Civil  War  was  a  day  of  the  Lord ;  so  also 
was  the  World  War  and  the  epidemic  of  influenza.  This  world- 
wide depression  is  a  day  of  the  Lord,  but  no  one  of  these  days  is 
that  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  which  is  to  come  at  the 
end  of  the  world.  , 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


WAR  A  PENALTY  FOR  CRIMES 

A  regiment  of  Northern  soldiers  stormed  a  Confederate  fort. 
The  young  Federal  commander  fell  mortally  wounded  outside  the 
breast  works.  He  was  carried  to  a  Southern  hospital.  His  dying 
wish  was  that  his  sword  be  girded  on  his  body  and  that  his  coffin 
be  covered  with  his  country's  flag.  He  asked  the  fair  Southern 
nurse  to  sing  a  verse  of  the  Star  Spangled  Banner.  Southern  chiv- 
alry and  Southern  beauty  gratified  the  requests  of  the  Union  of- 
ficer. Then  the  dying  soldier  said:  "War  seems  an  awful  thing.  I 
suppose  it  isn't  half  so  much  a  crime  as  it  is  a  penalty  for  the 
crimes  that  bring  it  on." 

Why  will  not  the  people  of  the  world  engage  in  national  and 
international  repentance  and  humiliation?  God  is  not  responsible 
for  our  calamities.  He  has  pointed  out  the  means  of  escape.  If  we 
will  turn  our  faces  towards  him  and  repent  this  depression  will 
vanish  like  magic.  Let  the  spirit  of  the  Prince  of  Peace  be  firmly 
fixed  in  the  councils  of  the  nations  and  observed;  then  all  talk 
about  war  will  cease,  and  nations  shall  no  longer  learn  war  for 
their  "swords  shall  be  beaten  into  plowshares  and  their  spears  into 
pruning  hooks." 

WHEN  THE  GREAT  DAY  OF  THE  LORD  COMES 

■  Now  brethren  and  sisters,  the  great  day  of  the  Lord  is  coming. 
It  is  going  to  be  a  terrible  day.  The  wicked  are  going  to  be  de- 
stroyed, and  when  I  say  the  wicked  I  do  not  mean  everybody  out- 
side the  Mormon  Church.  There  will  be  countless  millions  of 
people  not  of  this  Church  spared  because  they  are  not  ripe  in  in- 
iquity and  to  them  we  will  preach  the  everlasting  Gospel  and  bring 
them  unto  Christ.  When  Jesus  Christ  comes  there  is  going  to  be 
a  glorious  resurrection  of  the  dead.  The  Millennium  will  be  inau- 
gurated and  men  in  every  land  and  every  clime  shall  live  in  peace. 

THE  MONSTER  WE  CREATE 

We  ourselves  are  the  creators,  in  a  large  measure,  of  our 
troubles.  Once,  so  the  old  story  goes,  a  medical  student  determined 
to  build  a  monster  out  of  the  cemetery  and  dissecting  rooms.  He 
did  so,  and  the  thing  assumed  life.  This  horrible  monster  killed  the 
student's  bride  and  strangled  his  best  friend.  Is  there  a  lesson  in 
this  for  us?  This  disrespect  for  law,  this  encouraging  the  liquor 
traffic,  this  disregard  for  the  Sabbath  Day,  indifference  to  business 
obligations,  neglect  of  duty  to  God  and  country  (we  believe  that 
no  man  can  be  a  true  Latter-day  Saint  unless  he  is  a  loyal  citizen 
of  the  splendid  republic  in  which  we  live  and  of  which  we  are 
proud)— this  monster  which  I  fear  we  are  building  out  of  these 
grievous  ills,  will  if  not  eliminated,  strangle  the  youth  of  the  land 
and  destroy  the  flower  of  our  manhood.  May  God  help  us  all  to 
work  to  sustain  law  and  order  and  to  protect  our  young  men  and 
young  women. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


19 


You  fathers  and  mothers  are  not  living  for  yourselves  any- 
longer;  you  are  living  for  your  children.  Then  express  in  good 
deeds,  in  the  making  of  good  laws  your  desire  to  have  your  children 
protected  by  every  safeguard,  and  ere  long  the  Millennium,  whose 
sun  is  already  brightening  the  hills  of  coming  time,  will  dawn  upon 
us  and  peace  and  joy  shall  be  in  every  heart,  and  the  Redeemer 
shall  reign  from  the  rivers  to  the  ends  of  the  earth.  War  shall  be 
abolished.  God  hasten  that  day,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

On  one  accasion  the  Master,  speaking,  as  you  will  find  it  recorded  in 
Matthew  7th  Chapter,  21st  verse,  said  "Not  everyone  that  saith  unto  me, 
Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven ;  but  he  that  doeth 
the  will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 

LEARNING  OF  GOD'S  WILL  ESSENTIAL 

I  regard  it  as  the  responsibility  of  every  man  and  woman  who  has 
the  holy  privilege  of  dwelling  upon  this  earth,  provided  by  someone  who 
gives  us  our  life,  our  being  and  existence  in  this  world,  to  learn  the 
purposes  of  the  Almighty  in  placing  us  here,  to  learn  the  will  of  God, 
and  to  do  it.  Apparently  it  is  difficult,  however,  for  men  in  this  age  to 
interpret  the  will  of  God.  In  past  times  it  has  been  clearly  understood ; 
however,  now  there  is  misunderstanding  and  that  will  has  been  confused. 
No  one  will  dispute  the  right  of  the  Creator  to  determine  the  terms  under 
which  men  have  their  right  of  living  in  this  world  and  also  in  a  world 
that  is  to  come.  Under  our  law  we  grant  to  any  person  who  holds 
property  the  right  to  set  up  in  a  will  the  terms  under  which  children  or 
heirs  may  inherit.  No  matter  how  much  we  may  disagree  with  the  condi- 
tions we  cannot  inherit  unless  we  subscribe  to  the  terms  of  the  will.  So, 
no  matter  how  much  we  ourselves  may  disagree  with  the  will  of  the 
Almighty  he  has  the  right  to  set  up  the  terms,  and  he  that  attempts  in 
any  other  way  to  inherit  shall  be  regarded  as  a  thief  and  a  robber. 

As  I  have  said,  the  difficulty  is  that  men  do  not  understand  the  will. 
It  is  confused  by  the  multitudes  who  seek  to  interpret  it,  one  saying^  lo, 
this  is  the  way,  and  another  some  other  way ;  and  so  hundreds  of  institu- 
tions claiming  to  represent  the  Lord  and  interpret  his  will  confuse  the 
minds  of  men.  I  regard  every  word  that  Jesus  Christ  gave  men  as 
essential  for  their  proper  understanding  of  the  will  and  purposes  of  the 
Lord.  I  believe  that  Jesus  Christ  preached  at  least  a  thousand  sermons. 
He  was  constantly  at  work  and  that  would  have  been  no  more  than  an 
average  of  a  sermon  a  day.  I  cannot  think  of  a  single  utterance  that 
fell  from  his  lips  that  is  not  important  to  the  understanding  of  men  in 
this  day,  as  well  as  in  the  day  when  it  was  given.  Unfortunately  we  do  not 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


have  all  these  precious  words.  They  were  not  recorded  until  years  after 
they  were  uttered.  These  gospels  were  compiled  many  years  afterward, 
and  only  out  of  the  dim  memory  of  30  or  40,  and  in  some  instances  60 
years,  was  the  story  that  Christ  gave  men  recorded.  If  we  eliminate  the 
duplication  of  that  story,  all  that  Jesus  gave  us,  so  far  as  it  is  recorded, 
could  be  confined  to  seventeen  pages  of  the  New  Testament.  This  could 
be  read  in  an  hour  and  fi  f  teen  minutes. 

And  then  there  are  the  addresses  of  the  apostles  who  made  clear 
many  questions  concerning  which  men's  minds  are  now  confused  and 
we  have  only  fragments  of  these  addresses.  . 

AUTHORITY  TO  INTERPRET  DIVINE  WILL  PROVIDED 

It  was  the  design  and  the  purpose  of  the  Almighty  to  leave  someone 
on  the  earth  to  interpret  his  will  and  to  execute  it.  If  you  discover  that 
the  will  of  your  father  or  your  grandfather  names  you  as  an  heir,  you 
must  secure  your  interest  and  enter  into  it  in  the  proper  way.  You  can- 
not subscribe  to  the  terms  of  the  will  in  the  presence  of  your  friends 
and  then  possess  the  property.  You  must  go  before  a  competent  judge, 
one  with  the  authority  to  represent  the  dead  owner  or  maker  of  the  will, 
and  in  his  presence  conform  to  the  terms  of  the  will,  and  he  gives  you  the 
right  and  title  in  behalf  of  the  original  owner  who  has  passed  away. 

Just  as  this  is  true  in  the  affairs  of  men  it  is  also  true  in  the  things 
of  God.  There  must  be  someone  who  can  properly  interpret  and  legally 
execute  the  will  of  God.  It  was  clear  in  the  minds  of  the  Apostles  that 
they  were  vested  with  the  right  and  authority  to  represent  the  Master. 
And  these  twelve  men  whom  he  called  and  selected  also  had  authority  to 
execute  his  will.  For  this  reason  Paul  said  in  Ephesians,  Chapter  4, 
Verses  11  to  13 : 

And  he  gave  some,  apostles,  and  some,  prophets;  and  some,  evangelists;  and 
some,  pastors  and  teachers ;  For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for  the  work  of  the 
ministry,  for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ :  Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith. 

Here  was  authority  appointed  to  interpret  the  will,  so  that  one 
should  not  say  "I  am  of  Paul,"  and  another  "I  am  of  Apollos."  Is 
Christ  divided?  No!  He  himself  said  once  to  those  who  followed  him 
that  if  they  were  not  one  they  were  not  his ;  and  he  earnestly  prayed 
that  they  might  be  one. 

But  we  know  that  these  apostles  were  taken  by  death,  and  we  also 
know  that  they  left  no  successors.  I  know  that  here  is  a  controversial 
point. 

AUTHORITY  NOT  BESTOWED  UPON  SUCCESSORS 

I  desire  to  repeat  what  I  said  in  this  pulpit  August  12,  1928,  and  for 
twenty-five  years  have  been  proclaiming.  (Brother  B.  H.  Roberts  used 
effectively  a  similar  argument  in  1931  in  his  radio  address.)  The  men 
of  that  generation  knew  more,  far  more,  about  what  Christ  intended  and 
what  the  apostles  actually  did  than  we  know  from  the  witness  and  testi- 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


21 


mony  of  the  Twelve  themselves.  I  propose  to  show  that  the  authority 
vested  in  the  Twelve,  with  three  of  them  at  their  head — Peter,  James  and 
John — was  not  bestowed  upon  successors.  First  of  all,  if  Peter  did  go  to 
Rome  and  establish  a  branch  of  the  Church  and  appointed  the  first 
Bishop  as  his  (Peter's)  successor  in  the  apostleship  he  would  have  told 
his  associates  of  the  Twelve  about  it.  There  is  no  record  that  he  made 
any  such  reference.  He  did  come  back  and  tell  them  those  very  remark- 
able circumstances  under  which  the  Gospel  went  to  the  Gentiles  and 
every  other  circumstance  of  importance,  but  of  this  more  important 
matter — far  more  important  for  his  associates  in  the  Twelve  to  know 
about,  that  he  had  appointed  a  successor  to  himself  to  whom  they  must 
look — he  made  no  such  explanation  and  reference.  So  I  reach  the  con- 
clusion that  the  Twelve  did  not  know  or  recognize  these  Bishops  of 
Rome  as  Peter's  successors.  Neither  did  the  people  of  the  Church,  be- 
cause following  the  death  of  Peter  the  Church  looked  to  the  surviving 
apostles,  and  the  last  of  these  was  John  the  Beloved,  and  though  he  was 
banished  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos  they  still  looked  to  him.  They  sought 
him  and  rescued  him  and  brought  him  back,  and  he  went  from  church 
to  church  and  they  heard  his  word  as  the  very  word  of  God.  They  did 
not  recognize  the  Bishops  of  Rome  as  Peter's  successors,  but  this  John, 
the  surviving  apostle. 

JOHN  RECOGNIZED  AS  THE  LEADER 

The  Lord  himself  did  not  recognize  these  Bishops  of  Rome  as 
Peter's  successors,  but  he  did  recognize  his  surviving  apostle  John  who,  as 
one  of  the  Presidency,  held  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  with  his  associates 
Peter  and  James ;  for  upon  the  Isle  of  Patmos  the  revelations  of  the  Lord 
were  given  to  this  apostle  setting  forth  the  will  of  God  to  the  churches 
of  Asia,  and  showing  what  should  come  to  pass  in  the  last  days. 

Now  do  not  understand  that  I  do  not  regard  these  Bishops  of  Rome 
as  good  men  in  the  Church  of  Christ.  The  first  Bishop  of  Rome,  a  local 
officer,  was  Saint  Linus  who  presided  from  the  year  67  to  the  year  79 
after  Christ.  He  was  succeeded  by  St.  Cletus.  He  presided  from  79 
to  91  over  that  local  branch  of  the  Church.  He  was  succeeded  by  Saint 
Clement,  the  first,  who  presided  from  the  year  91  to  the  year  100  after 
Christ.  They  were  faithful,  good  men  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  local 
officers  but  not  Peter's  successors  or  presiding  officers  over  the  Church. 
And  this  John  outlived  all  three  of  these  Bishops  of  Rome  and  was  still 
upon  the  earth  when  they  were  dead  and  gone.  The  Church  and  God 
recognized  him  as  the  leader,  the  last  of  all  the  apostles,  and  no  one  sets 
up  a  claim,  so  far  as  I  know,  of  authority  coming  to  them  from  this 
John.  It  is  necessary  to  dispose  of  him  in  order  to  bring  these  Bishops 
into  a  place  of  presiding  authority. 

RESTORATION  OF  AUTHORITY  ESSENTIAL 

This  leads  me  to  say  therefore  that  it  was  essential,  since  those  who 
had  the  authority  to  interpret  the  will  of  God  and  to  execute  it  had 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


passed  away,  to  reestablish  it  upon  the  earth.  It  has  been  the  proclama- 
tion of  this  Church  now  for  more  than  one  hundred  years  that  the  holy 
apostleship  that  was  once  given  by  the  Master  to  the  disciples  of  old  has 
been  restored.  We  proclaim  that  in  this  generation  Peter,  James  and 
John  did  come  to  the  earth  and  lay  their  hands  upon  the  heads  of  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  and  bestowed  upon  them  the  holy  apostleship 
with  all  of  its  rights  and  authority;  and  that  every  man  who  has  been 
ordained  an  apostle  in  this  Church,  each  and  all  of  them,  has  received  his 
authority  in  an  unbroken  chain  back  to  those  who  held  the  keys  from 
the  Master  himself ;  and  further  that  one  hundred  years  ago  last  month 
the  Council  of  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  was  once 
again  established  in  the  earth.  From  that  day  until  this  they  have  been 
officiating  with  the  right  and  the  authority  to  interpret  the  will  of  God. 
These  volumes  that  I  hold  in  my  hand,  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  contain  those  precious  things  which  Jesus  once 
gave  to  men  that  were  not  recorded  and  have  been  given  again.  He  has 
made  clear  his  will  by  these  revelations. 

I  do  not  stand  with  my  associates  to  claim  that  we  are  perfect  men 
at  all,  but  I  know  these  men  from  President  Grant  down  to  the  last  of 
those  who  hold  the  holy  apostleship,  and  I  know  they  are  men  who  have 
the  love  of  God  in  their  hearts.  We  may  have  our  imperfections,  but  I 
know  that  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  vindicates  our  claim.  Those 
former  apostles  of  Christ,  most  of  them  from  the  humble  walks  of  life, 
were  lifted  up  by  the  power  of  their  holy  calling  to  become  giants  in  the 
earth  and  their  words  of  wisdom  are  quoted  and  shall  be  until  the  ends 
of  time. 

DELIVERANCE  FROM  PRESENT  ILLS  THROUGH  OBEDIENCE 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  men  who  have  led  this  Church 
claiming  the  right  of  the  apostleship  have  shown  a  wisdom  and  power 
beyond  the  ordinary  man.  If  this  generation  had  listened  to  them  we 
would  have  been  in  an  age  of  peace,  happiness,  and  brotherhood  long 
before  this  time.  I  want  to  say  to  you  Latter-day  Saints,  so  near  as  we 
are  to  men  bearing  this  holy  authority,  many  of  us  have  eyes  and  see  not, 
and  ears  and  hear  not.  I  call  upon  you  to  listen  to  these  men  whom  God 
has  appointed  to  interpret  his  will  and  to  execute  it.  There  is  no  peace 
or  safety  for  the  Church  except  in  following  their  leadership.  God  has 
vindicated  them  in  the  past,  he  is  vindicating  them  today,  and  thus  we  are 
custodians  of  the  sacred  will  of  God  and  have  the  right  and  authority  to 
speak  in  his  name.  We  have  no  motive  in  our  hearts  except  the  love  of 
men.  In  our  hearts  is  the  same  love  that  was  in  the  heart  of  him  who 
loved  men  so  much  that  he  died  for  them.  We  have  in  our  souls  a  desire 
to  bless  and  not  to  curse ;  and  especially  you  Latter-day  Saints,  whether 
you  be  rich  or  poor,  I  want  you  to  know  that  in  the  hearts  of  these  men 
there  is  no  spirit  to  disregard  the  humblest  of  your  wants  or  needs,  and 
that  if  you  will  listen  to  their  counsel  in  this  conference  as  they  shall  be 
prompted  and  inspired  to  call  your  attention  to  matters  of  vital  import- 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


23 


ance,  the  needs  of  the  hour,  and  follow  that  counsel,  I  promise  you  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  deliverance  from  your  own  difficulties  and  peace  and 
safety  and  ultimately  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  May  he  grant  it 
to  us  through  obedience  to  his  divine  authority  reestablished  in  the 
earth,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

May  the  Lord  grant  me  his  spirit  while  I  stand  before  you. 

I  recall  a  very  important  passage  in  that  matchless  sermon, 
the  greatest  of  all  sermons — the  sermon  delivered  by  the  Saviour 
of  the  world  upon  the  Mount.  This  particular  passage  seems  to 
me  to  be  all  inclusive.  Said  he — "Be  ye  therefore  perfect  even  as 
your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect."  It  seems  to  me  that 
this  comprises  the  entire  sermon,  but  what  a  wonderful  undertak- 
ing it  is  to  become  perfect  even  as  our  Father  which  is  in  heaven 
is  perfect.  That  is  the  true  goal  towards  which  every  true  follower 
of  Christ  should  strive. 

The  difficulty  in  attaining  his  perfection  is  great,  and  some- 
times people  stand  appalled  at  the  very  thought  of  it.  Did  the  Lord 
really  mean  that  we  should  become  perfect?  Do  not  accuse  our 
Saviour  of  being  guilty  of  folly  or  of  teaching  that  which  he  did 
not  expect  to  be  followed. 

There  are  two  things  that  are  positively  essential  to  the  at- 
tainment of  that  goal  for,  without  them,  it  would  be  impossible. 
The  Lord  knowing  this  endowed  us  with  those  two  things  that  we 
might  become  perfect.  What  are  they?  They  are:  First,  "The  Free 
Agency  of  Man"  and  second,  "The  Knowledge  of  Good  and  Evil." 
They  are  fundamental  with  us.  The  Lord  inspired  the  writer  of 
the  Declaration  of  Independence  to  put  them  into  that  wonderful 
document,  wherein  it  declares  that  "all  men  are  created  equal  and 
have  been  endowed  by  their  Creator  with  certain  inalienable  rights, 
among  which  are  life,  liberty  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness."  These 
are  the  things  that  are  essential  to  the  attainment  of  perfection. 

Let  no  one  think  that  they  constitute  perfection,  nor  that  the 
freedom  of  will — the  power  to  think,  to  determine  and  to  do  the 
thing  one  wills  is  perfect  salvation.  It  is  not.  Nevertheless  these 
two  things  are  positively  essential  to  the  attainment  both  of  per- 
fection and  salvation  itself ;  but  whether  we  shall  reach  that  goal  or 
not  depends  entirely  on  the  use  we  make  of  them.  If,  in  the  ex- 
ercise of  our  free  agency,  we  choose  the  good  and  reject  the  evil, 
we  are  surely  preparing  ourselves  for  salvation ;  but  if  on  the  con- 
trary we  choose  the  evil  and  reject  the  good,  we  are  just  as  surely 
on  our  way  to  damnation. 

These  two  things  are  God-given  attributes.  We  inherited  them 
from  our  divine  parents.  They  are  not  the  gift  of  any  government 
— they  are  our  inalienable  rights  with  which  we  have  been  endowed 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


by  our  Creator  and  we  may  not  rightfully  be  deprived  of  them  by 
any  human  power. 

Our  first  venture  in  the  application  of  these  attributes  occurred 
in  the  Garden  of  Eden.  The  Lord  planted  a  garden  in  the  east  of 
Eden  with  wonderful  trees,  among  which  were  the  "Tree  of  Life" 
and  the  "Tree  of  Knowledge  of  Good  and  Evil,"  and  we  read : 

And  the  Lord  GJod  took  the  man,  and  put  him  into  the  Garden  of 
Eden  to_  dress  it  and  to  keep  it.  And  the  Lord  God  commanded  the 
man  saying:  "Of  every  tree  of  the  garden  thou  mayest  freely  eat;  But  of 
the  tree  of  the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  thou  shalt  not  eat  of  it,  for  in 
the  day  that  thou  eatest  thereof  thou  shalt  surely  die."    (Gen.  2:15,  16,  17.) 

Partaking  of  the  fruit  of  the  "Tree  of  Knowledge  of  Good  and 
Evil"  was  forbidden ;  not  because  this  knowledge  was  undesirable, 
for,  on  the  contrary,  it  was  very  much  to  be  desired  for  without 
it  man  could  not  become  perfect;  but  because  the  Lord  intended 
that  man  should  exercise  his  own  free  agency  with  which  he  had 
been  endowed  thus  causing  him  to  assume  the  full  responsibility 
for  his  own  acts  be  they  good  or  evil;  and  knowing  the  dangers 
that  await  all  those  who  have  thus  been  endowed,  and  the  disaster 
that  comes  to  those  who  fail,  the  Lord  forbade  him  and  gave  him 
full  warning  that  the  failure  of  his  venture,  should  it  so  be,  might 
not  be  attributed  to  divine  intervention.  No !  Adam  and  his  pos- 
terity must  now  assume  full  responsibility. 

The  sin  of  Adam  consisted  in  yielding  to  the  temptation  of 
the  devil  and  breaking  God's  commandment;  therefore  he  and  his 
posterity  must  suffer  the  penalty,  which  was  death.  "For  the 
wages  of  sin  is  death ;  but  the  gift  of  God  is  eternal  life  through 
Jesus  Christ  our  Lord."   (Romans  6 :23. ) 

What  was  the  forbidden  fruit?  I  do  not  think  it  was  an  apple, 
a  pear  or  a  peach,  or  anything  else  of  that  nature.  The  result  of 
partaking  of  the  fruit  is  set  forth  in  Genesis  2  :22 :  "And  the  Lord 
said:  Behold  the  man  is  become  as  one  of  us,  to  know  good  and 
evil."  And  now  lest  he  should  put  forth  his  hand  and  partake  also 
of  the  tree  of  life  and  live  forever  in  his  sin  he  drove  the  man  out 
of  the  Garden  and  placed  Cherubim  and  a  flaming  sword  to  guard 
the  way  to  the  tree  of  life — another  marvelous  tree  the  fruit  of 
which  is  eternal  life  which  God  in  his  unbounded  love  bestows 
upon  those  who  love  him  and  keep  his  commandments. 

Two  wonderful  trees  bearing  wonderful  fruit — both  are  good 
and  are  designed  for  the  perfecting  of  God's  children.  To  me  they 
appear  as  figures  of  speech. 

First:  The  tree  of  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  the  fruit  of 
which  is  implied  in  the  name  of  the  tree— the  "knowledge  of  good 
and  evil."  This  is  a  figure  denoting  the  spirit  of  Christ  or  the  light 
of  Christ. 

In  proof  of  this  I  quote  the  following  scripture : 

In  him  was  life;  and  the  life  was  'the  light  of  man. 

And  the  light  shineth  in  darkness  and  the  darkness  comprehended  it 

not. 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


25' 


That  was  the  true  light  which  enlighteneth  every  man  that  cOmeth  into  the 
world.   (John  1 :4,  5,  and  9.) 

Again : — 

And  this  is  the  condemnation,  that  light  is  come  into  the  world,  and 
men  loved  darkness  rather  than  light,  because  their  deeds  were  evil.  (John 
3:19.) 

And  again : 

For  behold  the  Spirit  of  Christ  is  given  to  every  man,  that  he  may 
know  good  from  evil.  (Book  of  Mormon,  Moroni  7:16.) 

Second:  The  tree  of  life,  the  fruit  of  which  is  also  implied  in 
the  name  of  the  tree  'Eternal  Life.'  God's  greatest  gift  to  man, 
but  not  while  under  the  bondage  of  sin,  for  Cherubim  and  a  flam- 
ing sword  still  keep  the  way  to  the  tree  of  life.  And  what  is  this 
tree  that  bears  such  precious  fruit? 

This  figure  denotes  the  "Love  of  God." 

"For  God  so  loved  the  world  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son, 
that  whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting 
life."  (John  3:16.) 

Again  in  the  Book  of  Mormon — -1st  Nephi  11 :  25 — it  is  given  defin- 
itely that  the  tree  of  life  is  the  "Love  of  God." 

The  fruit  of  the  tree  of  life  is  sweet  beyond  all  comparison. 
The  fruit  of  the  tree  of  knowledge  of  good  and  evil  is  bitter  be- 
cause God  gave  unto  man  that  he  should  act  for  himself  and  choose 
between  good  and  evil.  This  is  the  "bitter  cup"  of  an  earth  life  ex- 
perience. We  are  told  in  II  Nephi  2:15-23  that  there  needs  must  be 
opposition  and  that  there  could  have  been  no  progress  had  not 
Adam  transgressed  by  partaking  of  the  forbidden  fruit.  Let  me 
read  these  enlightening  paragraphs  in  full : 

"And  to  bring  about  his  eternal  purposes  in  the  end  of  man  after 
he  had  created  our  firs-t  parents,  and  the  beasts  of  the  field  and  the  fowls 
of  the  air,  and  in  fine,  all  things  which  are  created,  it  must  needs  be  that 
there  was  an  opposition;  even  ithe  forbidden  fruit  in  opposition  to  the  tree 
of  life;  the  one  being  sweet  and  the  other  bitter.    *    *  * 

And  now,  behold  if  Adam  had  not  transgressed,  he  would  not  have 
fallen;  but  he  would  have  remained  in  the  Garden  of  Eden.  And  all 
things  which  were  created  must  have  remained  in  the  same  state  in  which 
they  were  after  they  were  created;  and  they  must  have  remained  forever, 
and  had  no  end. 

And  they  would  have  had  no  children;  wherefore  they  would  have 
remained  in  a  state  of  innocence,  having  no  joy,  for  thep  knew  no  misery; 
doing  no  good,  for  they  knew  no  sin."  (II  Nephi  2;  15;  22;  23.) 

And  furthermore  the  divine  purpose  would  have  been  defeated  for 
there  would  have  been  no  posterity.  Read  also  Paragraph  25 : 

Adam  fell  ithat  men  might  be;  and  men  are,  that  they  might  have 

joy. 

But  what  could  the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil  avail  us  if  we 
were  not  free  to  choose  and  how  could  we  choose  without  that 
knowledge?  There  is  no  virtue  in  doing  good  under  compulsion; 
and  likewise  there  is  no  vice  in  doing  evil  under  compulsion,  and 
without  knowledge  of  good  and  evil  there  could  be  no  sin ;  for 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


where  there  is  no  law,  there  can  be  no  condemnation.  Now,  these 
two  things  must  work  together  for  the  perfecting  of  mankind. 

In  all  this  that  I  have  said,  and  more  particularly  in  what  I 
have  read  from  the  revealed  word  of  God,  the  divine  purpose  with 
regard  to  mankind  is  made  as  plain  as  day ;  namely  that  we  might 
become  "perfect  even  as  our  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect." 
But  what  a  tremendous  undertaking  and  what  a  perilous  venture 
for  mankind !  To  have  a  knowledge  of  good  and  evil  and  be  en- 
dowed with  freedom  to  act  according  to  our  own  free  will. 

I  have  read  of  the  perils  of  the  sea  and  have  greatly  admired 
those  dauntless  voyagers  and  early  explorers  who  sailed  out  into 
the  great  unknown- — the  boundless  and  uncharted  ocean.  These 
brave  and  courageous  men  were  the  heroes  of  my  boyhood  days. 
How  they  battled  the  winds  and  the  waves  and  the  mountains  of 
ice,  to  say  nothing  of  the  mutiny  of  their  ofttimes  rebellous  crews 
who  being  less  courageous  sought  safety  in  return  to  their  native 
shores. 

But  these  dangers  and  perils  are  as  nothing  when  compared 
with  those  encountered  by  man  when  he  launched  his  barque  or 
set  his  sail  for  his  voyage  upon  life's  sea. 

"Paddling  your  own  canoe"  is  a  noble  undertaking.  Having 
our  free  agency  and  a  knowledge  of  good  and  evil  might  be  a 
simple  affair  if  there  were  no  opposing  winds ;  but  the  devil  came 
also  with  all  his  temptations,  allurements  and  deceptive  lies  to 
entice  men  to  sin  and  lead  them  away  from  God,  for  as  already 
stated,  there  must  needs  be  opposition  and  hence  our  problem  is 
to  exercise  our  free  agency  in  choosing  between  good  and  evil 
which  we  are  able  to  do  by  reason  of  the  knowledge  we  have ;  but 
"A  little  knowledge  is  a  dangerous  thing"  said  the  poet — "Drink 
deep  or  taste  not  the  Pierian  spring." 

In  order  to  get  a  clear  understanding  of  the  dangers  and  perils 
of  our  earth  life  experience,  let  us  consider  for  a  few  moments  the 
havoc  and  disaster  wrought  upon  mankind  as  a  result  of  the  con- 
flict between  the  forces  of  good  and  evil.  Think  of  the  murder  of 
Abel  by  his  brother  Cain  and  the  curse  of  the  Almighty  that  fell 
upon  the  latter  and  his  posterity  as  a  result;  think  of  the  wicked- 
ness of  the  world  in  the  days  of  Noah: 

And  God  saw  that  the  wickedness  of  man  was  great  in  the  earth, 
and  that  every  imagination  of  the  thoughts  of  his  heart  was  only  evil 
continually. 

And  it  repented  the  Lord  that  he  had  made  man  on  the  earth  .  .  . 
(Gen.  6:5,  6.) 

So  great  was  the  wickedness  that  God  destroyed  the  whole 
race  excepting  only  Noah  and  his  family  by  sending  the  greatest 
deluge  the  world  has  ever  known. 

Consider  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  and  the  slaughter  of  the  inno- 
cents in  the  days  of  Herod,  and  the  massacres  of  Genghis  Khan 
and  of  the  Hugenots,  on  the  eve  of  St.  Bartholomew.  Consider 
the  "great  world  war"  and  the  millions  of  lives  that  were  sacrificed. 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


27 


Then  think  of  all  the  murders,  the  adulteries  and  robberies — of  the 
kidnapings  and  burglaries,  and  the  evils  of  avarice  and  greed  and 
all  the  whole  category  of  crimes  with  which  the  world  has  been  af- 
flicted and  all  because  men,  in  the  exercise  of  their  free  agency  un- 
der the  temptations  and  deceptions  of  the  devil,  have  chosen  the 
evil  rather  than  the  good ;  have  loved  darkness  rather  than  light. 
No  wonder  then  that  God  who  foresaw  the  whole  drama  of  human 
life  warned  Adam  of  its  dangers  and  perils,  and  of  its  trials  and 
tribulations  and  finally  of  death,  for  said  he :  "In  the  day  thou 
eatest  thereof  thou  shalt  surely  die." 

Thus  wickedness  grows  rampant  in  the  world  until  the  earth 
is  ripe  for  the  hour  of  God's  judgment  when  "all  the  proud  and 
they  that  do  wickedly  shall  be  as  stubble  and  I  will  burn  them  up, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  that  wickedness  shall  not  be  upon  the 
earth." 

This  is  indeed  a  gloomy  picture  of  the  great  conflict  which 
is  still  raging  in  the  world,  and  one  might  well  be  struck  with 
terror  if  there  were  not  a  brighter  side.  One  might  well  complain 
against  the  Lord  who  made  him,  for  driving  him  out  of  his  presence 
into  a  wicked  world  to  shift  for  himself  against  an  evil  foe,  even 
the  arch-enemy  of  God,  the  adversary  of  our  souls,  unless  at  the 
same  time  he  fortified  him  for  the  conflict  and  offered  him  the  nec- 
essary protection. 

Let  no  one  think  that  God  has  failed  in  this.  No  indeed !  He 
has  provided  for  our  full  safety  and  a  successful  voyage  across  the 
perilous  sea  of  life.  He  gave  us  holy  commandments  and  warned 
of  dangers  ahead.  He  was  on  our  right  hand  and  on  our  left.  He 
pointed  out  the  right  way  and  he  warned  against  the  wrong  way ; 
but  he  used  no  compulsion ;  he  let  us  choose  for  ourselves  because 
his  plan  is  to  prove  us  and  see  "if  we  will  do  all  things  whatsoever 
the  Lord  our  God  shall  command  us."  But  what  is  most  important 
of  all,  he  gave  us  a  Pilot  who  knew  the  reefs,  the  rocks  and  the 
shoals  of  the  sea,  who  commanded  the  waves  and  the  winds 
and  they  obeyed.  "For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his 
only  begotten  Son  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  per- 
ish, but  have  everlasting  life."  (John  3:16.)  All  things,  whatsoever 
the  Lord,  our  God  shall  command,  are  embodied  in  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Therefore  the  path  of  safety  is :  Believe  in  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  repent  and  be  baptized  everyone  of  you  for  the  re- 
mission of  your  sins,  and  get  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands  by  servants  of  God  who  have  been  commis- 
sioned of  Jesus  Christ  to  perform  these  sacred  ordinances. 

To  believe  in  him  is  choosing  the  good — to  repent  is  rejecting 
the  evil,  therefore;  "Resist  the  devil  and  he  will  flee  from  you. 
Draw  nigh  to  God  and  he  will  draw  nigh  to  you."    (Jas.  4:7-8.) 

This  is  the  proper  use  of  these  two  divine  attributes,  the  "Free 
Agency  of  Man"  and  the  "Knowledge  of  Good  and  Evil,"  with 
which  God  has  endowed  us  and  which  are  positively  essential  to 
the  attainment  of  our  goal, — perfection.  This  is  also  the  way  to 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


secure  the  remission  of  our  sins  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
which  is  the  spirit  of  truth  that  leadesh  unto  all  truth,  and  if  we 
get  it  and  keep  it  by  right  living,  it  will  surely  lead  us  to  the  "Tree 
of  Life"  which  is  the  "Love  of  God"  the  fruit  of  which  tree  is  sweet 
beyond  all  comparison.  "The  Tree  of  Life"  is  also  known  as  the 
"Well  of  living  water  springing  up  into  everlasting  life."  (John 
4:14.) 

Attaining  to  these  heights  means  perfection. 

"Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in 
heaven  is  perfect." 

May  the  Lord  safely  pilot  us  into  that  haven  of  safety  even 
the  "Love  of  God"  where  perfection  reigns  supreme. — Amen. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang  an  anthem,  "The  Lord's 
Prayer,"  after  which  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Charles 
S.  Clark,  President  of  the  Cassia  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

FIRST  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  at  2  o'clock, 
Friday  afternoon,  April  5. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  furnished  the  music  for  this 
meeting. 

The  congregation  joined  with  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 

Elder  Richard  C.  May,  President  of  the  Minidoka  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

An  anthem,  "The  heavens  are  telling,"  was  sung  by  the  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  desire  to  speak  on  "Orthodoxy"  or  more  definitely  on  the  subject, 
"Being  Orthodox." 

I  am  led  to  believe  that  this  subject  is  timely  and  of  some  general 
importance  by  many  expressions  which  have  reached  me,  coming  from 
both  young  and  mature  people  in  the  Church,  which  seem  to  indicate 
that  there  is  something  of  an  aversion  to  being  considered  orthodox. 
Not  infrequently  does  one  hear  it  said,  "Yes,  I  am  a  member  of  the 
Church.   I  think  it  is  all  right,  but  I  don't  pretend  to  be  orthodox." 

TRUE  DEFINITION  OF  ORTHODOXY 

The  manner  of  making  such  a  statement,  or  others  like  it,  usually 
carries  the  implication  that  the  one  who  takes  this  position  regards  being 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


29 


orthodox  as  something  of  a  stigma  or  blot  on  his  intelligence.  He 
seems  to  think  that  orthodoxy  is  opposed  to  broadmindedness  and  in- 
dicates contraction  of  view.  From  the  technical  definition  of  the  word, 
of  course,  this  interpretation  is  erroneous.  Orthodox  means,  "correct 
or  sound  in  doctrine;  holding  the  commonly  accepted  faith." 

I  am  not,  however,  particularly  concerned  with  the  technical  mis- 
interpretation in  the  use  of  the  term, — what  interests  me,  and  I  believe 
it  to  be  important,  is  the  attitude  on  the  part  of  members  of  our  Church 
which  prompts  them  to  seemingly  take  some  pride  in  the  assertion  that 
they  do  not  hold  to  the  "commonly  accepted  faith." 

CLEAR  THINKING  NECESSARY 

I  can  not  help  believing  that  much  of  this  attitude  results  from 
misconception  of  Church  doctrine  and  illogical  thinking  in  consequence 
thereof.  I  feel  sure  that  many  who  express  skepticism  are  not  really 
as,  skeptical  as  their  talk  would  indicate,  and  that  some  who  think  them- 
selves skeptical  could  easily  remove  their  doubt  by  a  little  clear  thinking. 
There  is  something  else  that  both  parties  need  which  I  will  mention 
later. 

Now  what  is  requisite  to  be  "correct  and  sound  in  the  doctrine"  of 
our  Church  ?  To  what  must  we  subscribe  ?!  In  answer  to  this  question 
I  might,  with  propriety,  quote  the  thirteen  Articles  of  our  Faith,  which 
have  stood  as  our  guide  for  such  a  long  period  of  time  and  which  are 
so  comprehensive  and  enlightening.  But  I  am  not  going  to  do  this.  1 
am  going  to  try  to  simplify  and  condense  the  answer.  The  answer  I 
propose  is  this :  Accept  Christ  and  Joseph  Smith.  I  mean,  of  course 
to  accept  the  Savior  for  what  he  said  he  was,  and  likewise  to  accept 
Joseph  Smith  for  what  he  said  he  was.  If  we  can  really  do  this,  our 
doctrine  will  be  orthodox. 

INTELLIGENT  BELIEF  CONSISTENT 

One  can  not  accept  the  Divine  Sonship  of  Jesus  Christ  without 
acknowledging  the  Eternal  Fatherhood  of  God — nor  the  Father  and 
the  Son  as  revealed,  without  the  Holy  Ghost.  There  is  certainly  no  con- 
sistency in  accepting  Christ  as  Lord,  without  accepting  the  whole  of 
his  Gospel  as  divine.  I  have  never  been  able  to  understand  how  intel- 
ligent, educated  men  could  reconcile  the  logic  or  illogic  of  accepting 
the  authenticity  of  that  portion  of  the  record  of  the  Savior  which  sets 
forth  his  incomparable  teachings  and  philosophy,  and  at  the  same  time, 
deny  the  correctness  of  the  same  record  which  proclaims  his  Divine 
Sonship  and  Lordship.  What  justification  is  there  for  credence  in  a 
part  of  the  record  and  not  all  of  it;  or  believing  some  of  the  things  the 
Master  said  and  not  all  that  he  said?  I  admit  that  it  may  be  easier, 
in  that  it  requires  less  faith,  to  accept  some  parts,  rather  than  other 
parts,  but  from  the  standpoint  of  the  authenticity  and  validity  of  the 
record  itself,  which  is  admittedly  the  source  from  which  we  obtain  our 
knowledge  and  information  of  the  Christ,  how  can  one  part  be  true 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


without  all  being  true?  To  that  question  I  have  never  been  able  to 
discover  a  satisfactory  answer. 

Then  too,  the  part  of  the  record  which  the  so-called  higher  critics 
and  some  of  our  skeptical  friends  would  discredit,  while  accepting  other 
parts,  is  the  most  important  and  surely  the  most  vital  thing  connected 
with  the  Redeemer's  work  and  message. 

TRUTH  A  REQUISITE 

Was  he  what  he  said  he  was?  I  think  all  thoughtful  persons 
must  agree  that  the  significance  of  his  Lordship  is  infinitely  greater 
than  the  ethics  of  his  teachings.  Of  course,  it  is  easier  to  believe  in 
the  Golden  Rule  than  in  the  virgin  birth  or  the  transfiguration.  We  can 
understand  the  one  far  better  than  the  other.  It  takes  faith  to  accept 
the  things  we  do  not  understand.  Perhaps  on  that  very  account,  they 
are  of  more  importance  and  lasting  benefit  to  us,  because  they  require 
and  develop  faith  which  is  the  very  genius  and  essence  of  the  Savior's 
life,  work  and  mission.  No  student  of  the  scriptures,  I  believe,  will 
deny  that. 

Perhaps  it  will  not  be  too  much  of  a  digression  from  the  theme  to 
ask  the  question  at  this  point :  Why  is  it  so  difficult  to  accept  things  on 
faith  ?  I  think  I  can  suggest  an  answer.  It  is  because  we  are  so  conceited. 
Men  of  the  world  are  in  the  world  only  because  they  adopt  the  philosophy 
of  the  world  which  is  the  philosophy  of  self  sufficiency.  It  is  not  a 
humble  philosophy — it  is  highly  egotistical.  It  makes  men  themselves 
the  arbiters  of  all  things.  They  look  to  no  higher  source  than  themselves 
for  the  solution  of  all  questions. 

Such  a  philosophy  is  diametrically  opposed  to  the  philosophy  of 
Christ  which  is  that  of  faith.  When  men  adopt  his  philosophy  they  are 
humble — they  acknowledge  an  intelligence  far  superior  to  their  own  and 
they  seek  guidance  and  wisdom  from  that  source.  When  they  adopt 
the  philosophy  of  faith,  they  come  out  of  the  world,  for  the  world,  as 
a  term  in  theology  is  not  a  place  but  a  condition  or  state  of  mind  and 
feeling.  It  requires  courage  to  come  out  of  the  world  and  adopt  the 
philosophy  of  faith.  Sometimes  it  subjects  one  to  ridicule  and  the 
contempt  of  friends  which  are  harder  for  most  men  to  endure  than 
physical  pain;  but  because  a  thing  is  hard  to  do  or  hard  to  believe  is 
no  assurance  that  it  is  not  right. 

NOT  HARD  TO  HAVE  FAITH 

I  am  one,  however,  who  believes  that  it  is  not  so  hard  for  most 
people  to  have  faith  and  accept  spiritual  realities  if  they  will  but  let 
their  minds  and  their  native  inclinations  pursue  their  natural  bent.  I 
think  that  altogether  too  often  we  permit  thinking  complexes  and 
sophisticated  reasoning  to  warp  our  intuitive  judgment  and  entrammel 
the  spontaneous  feelings  and  emotions  of  our  souls.  So,  when  I  pre- 
scribe the  acceptance  of  Christ  as  a  condition  of  orthodoxy,  I  mean  an 
acceptance  without  reservation — a  whole  souled,  intelligent,  joyous  ac- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


31 


ceptance  of  him  that  proclaims  him,  Lord,  Savior,  Redeemer  and 
Mediator  with  the  Father  and  lays  claim  on  his  mercy,  his  grace  and 
his  love  for  all  the  finer  things  we  know  in  life.  What  hope — what 
peace  and  satisfaction  such  a  full  acceptance  of  the  Christ  brings  to 
the  heart  of  man,  only  those  who  have  received  a  testimony  of  Jesus 
will  ever  know. 

ACCEPTANCE  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH 

Now  the  next  thing  is  to  accept  Joseph  Smith — to  believe  in  him  as 
a  prophet  and  ordained  servant  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Many  of 
the  things  which  have  been  said  about  the  Savior,  apply  with  equal 
force  to  the  Prophet.  The  record  which  he  left  is  more  full,  more 
recent  and  far  more  susceptible  of  verification  than  the  early  Gospels. 
Many  have  assailed  the  record  but  no  one  has  ever  succeeded  in  dis- 
crediting it.  Many  thousands  to  whom  the  record  has  come  have  not 
believed  it  but  the  thousands  who  have  believed  have  furnished  in  their 
lives  and  work  verification  and  support  which  thoughtful  observers 
can  not  ignore. 

The  Prophet's  own  story  requires  faith  for  its  acceptance  as  does  the 
account  of  the  Savior.  It  deals  with  unusual  and  supernatural  experi- 
ences which  relatively  few  have  ever  enjoyed  but  which  no  one  has 
ever  had  the  actual  knowledge  to  deny. 

LAME  ATTEMPTS 

I  have  known  a  few  people  and  I  have  heard  of  others  who  attempt 
to  explain  the  extraordinary  manifestations  to  the  Prophet  in  ways 
other  than  he  accounted  for  them.  I  have  always  felt  that  such  at- 
tempted explanations  were  lame,  unwarranted  and  pure  conjecture, 
and  sometimes  conspicuously  anomalous  because,  while  attempting  to 
explain  away  the  phenomena  of  the  divine  manifestations  to  the  Prophet, 
an  effort  is  made  to  uphold  the  validity  of  his  teachings  and  doctrine. 

There  are  a  few  who  assert  that  it  is  immaterial  whether  or  not  the 
Prophet's  account  of  himself  is  true,  and  sufficient  to  know  that  the 
organization  which  he  initiated  and  the  doctrines  he  taught  are  salutary 
and  helpful.  Some  go  so  far  as  to  indicate  that  they  would  prefer 
to  pass  over  the  miraculous  story  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  repose 
their  faith  and  confidence  in  Brigham  Young,  his  leadership  and  accom- 
plishments. These  are  some  of  the  views  held  by  those  who  are  counted 
unorthodox. 

_  The  views  certainly  are  not  orthodox  and  I  think  they  are  not 
logical  nor  consistent.  I  lay  it  down  as  fundamental  that  the  vitality 
and  validity  of  the  work  of  our  Church  stands  or  falls  with  the  verity 
of  Joseph  Smith's  own  story. 

RIGHT  OF  SUCCESSION 

Wjhat  would  be  the  efficacy  of  our  priesthood,  had  he  not  received 
the  divine  bestowal  as  he  said?   What  of  all  the  ordinances,  the  cere- 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


monies,  the  work  of  our  temples  if  the  source  is  impugned?  Brigham 
Young  freely  acknowledged  that  not  only  his  authority  but  the  doctrines 
which  he  taught  and  the  genius  of  the  organization  which  he  carried 
forward  all  came  to  him  from  and  through  the  Prophet.  The  man  who 
stands  at  our  head  today  is  where  he  is  only  because  he  comes  in  rightful 
succession  from  the  Prophet  and  exercises  the  authority  handed  down 
to  him  from  that  source. 

FUNDAMENTALS  UNCHANGED 

It  is  true  that  the  Church  has  developed  some  new  methods  and 
organizations  since  the  days  of  the  Prophet  but  there  is  nothing  funda- 
mentally essential  in  doctrine  or  organization  which  we  have  today 
that  was  not  given  to  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

I  am  sure  it  is  not  necessary  to  mention  further  reasons  why  it  is 
absolutely  necessary  to  accept  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  his  testimony 
and  his  work  as  a  condition  to  full  fellowship  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints ;  nor  do  I  expect  that  I  shall  encounter  any 
considerable  disagreement  with  what  I  have  heretofore  said.  I  believe 
the  conclusions  which  I  have  stated  are  not  susceptible  of  successful 
contradiction.  In  fact  they  may  seem  so  obvious  as  scarcely  to  warrant 
any  discussion. 

INDIFFERENT  AND  CRITICAL  MEMBERS 

There  is  another  phase  of  this  subject  which  is  not  so  obvious  and 
on  which  I  wish  to  make  a  few  suggestions.  I  believe  tha\t  there 
are  many  people  in  the  Church,  who,  deep  down  in  their  hearts,  have  a 
conviction  of  the  divinity  of  the  Church  and  its  work,  but,  for  one 
reason  and  another,  seldom,  if  ever,  acknowledge  this  conviction,  even 
to  themselves.  In  many  cases,  such  people  have  come  from  Latter-day 
Saint  homes  and  have  had  early  training  in  the  organizations  of  the 
Church.  Then  they  have  become  inactive  and  finally  indifferent  or 
critical.  Most  of  this  class  still  claim  membership  or  at  least  admit 
membership  but  they  acknowledge  that  they  are  not  orthodox  and 
seem  rather  proud  of  it. 

I  wish  I  could  help  them  analyze  their  own  condition  because 
I  believe  if  they  would  take  the  trouble  to  do  that,  it  would  be  the 
first  step  toward  a  new  and  happier  life  for  them.  I  have  a  feeling 
that  most  of  the  class  which  I  have  just  described  are  not  entirely  happy 
and  contented  with  their  hike  warm,  partial  allegiance  to  the  Church, 
especially  at  such  times  as  they  may  seriously  ponder  the  matter.  They 
realize  without  my  telling  them  that  their  position  is  inconsistent  with 
any  logical  deduction  they  can  make.  They  know  that  the  challenge  of 
the  Gospel  is  such  that  it  means  everything  to  one  who  embraces  it,  if 
it  means  anything  at  all.  If  they  are  parents,  they  are  often  very 
pleased  to  have  their  children  receive  the  benefits  of  Church  training. 
They  are  concerned  for  the  welfare  of  their  children  and  they  know 
that  the  influence  of  the  Church  is  good.    Why  is  it  then,  that  they 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


33 


do  not  or  can  not  call  back  into  full  force  their  testimony  of  the  truth, 
enjoy  the  companionship  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  rejoice  in  the  associa- 
tions of  the  Church  ? 

I  am  not  sure  that  I  can  answer  this  question  for  many,  but  I  am 
sure  that  each  can  answer  for  himself,  if  he  will  but  frankly  look  into 
his  own  life,  feelings  and  conduct.  I  think  I  can  promise  to  each  that 
if  he  will  scrutinize  himself  as  critically  as  he  does  the  authorities  and 
the  procedure  of  the  Church  he  will  discover  the  reasons  which  underly 
his  own  disaffection.  This  is  not  so  easy  to  do  and  not  nearly  so 
interesting  as  it  is  to  criticize  others.  One  seldom  has  company  when 
he  is  analyzing  himself  and  the  conversation  he  carries  on  with  himself 
is  never  very  scintillating.  The  parties  to  the  conversation, — he  and 
himself,  know  all  the  facts  and  they  have  to  be  so  brutally  frank  that, 
sometimes  it  is  really  painful  to  listen  in.  But  when  the  conversation 
centers  about  others  with  sympathetic  company  it  isn't  necessary  to 
have  more  than  a  mere  smattering  of  the  facts  to  make  a  colorful,  in- 
teresting story. 

DISPOSITION  TO  CRITICIZE 

Now  I'm  not  complaining  that  the  authorities  and  policies  of  the 
Church  are  subjected  to  criticism.  If  the  criticism  were  constructive 
and  if  it  could  reach  those  who  could  remedy  defects  when  they  are 
shown,  it  might  be  very  profitable.  It  is  my  desire,  not  so  much  to  save 
the  Church  from  criticism  as  to  save  the  critics  from  themselves.  I 
know  without  being  told  that  the  men  who  administer  the  affairs  of  the 
Church  in  both  general  and  local  capacity  are  men  with  human  frailties 
and.  imperfect  wisdom  and  judgment.  I  know  too  that  they  are  humble 
men  and  that  they  diligently  and  prayerfully  seek  to  give  to  the  service 
of  their  fellows  the  best  that  is  within  them.  There  may  be  a  few  excep- 
tions but  they  are  very  rare,  indeed.  With  such  a  disposition  manifest 
in  our  leaders  and  officers,  surely  it  is  not  going  too  far  to  ask /for 
forbearance  of  judgment  and  kindly,  tolerant  consideration  and  particu- 
larly a  full  investigation  of  the  facts  before  adverse  criticism  is  either 
entertained  or  uttered.  I  believe  that  if  we  could  once  and  for  all  abandon 
the  practice  of  long  range,  ill  considered,  intemperate  criticism,  thou- 
sands of  people  would  save  themselves,  their  faith  and  others; — and 
relatively  few  in  this  Church  would  regard  themselves  or  be  regarded 
as  unorthodox. 

TRUE  WORSHIP  OVERCOMES  CRITICISM 

Worship  is  an  essential  part  of  religion.  Who  can  go  to  a  place  of 
worship  and  enjoy  the  sanctifying,  refreshing_  influence  which  comes 
from  prayer,  songs  of  praise,  communion  with  the  Saints  and  the 
lovely  spirit  which  pervades  a  reverential  assembly,  if  his  mind  is  filled 
with  critical  thoughts.  In  fact,  when  he  is  in  such  a  condition  he  does 
not  enjoy  worship  and  he  ceases  to  attend  the  meetings  of  the  Church. 
It  is  surprising  how  rapidly  disintegration  of  faith  sets  in.  Skepticism 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  doubt  follow  and  sometimes  apostasy,  but  more  often  indifference. 

I  wish  I  could  say  something  to  check  those  who  are  on  the  road  to 
indifference,  and  I  wish  I  could  call  those  who  have  already  gone  far 
astray  back  to  the  faith  and  the  fold  of  the  Church.  I  recognize  that 
my  words,  however  deep  my  feelings  may  be,  can  do  but  little  and  that 
each  must  do  the  things  that  are  necessary  for  himself.  I  do  want 
to  hold  out  encouragement,  however.  I  can  give  positive  assurance 
that  everyone  whose  spiritual  progress  is  being  retarded  by  critical 
thoughts,  doubt  and  skepticism  can  remove  the  obstacles  if  he  but  has 
the  will  to  do  it.  I  can  likewise  give  assurance  that  anyone  who  will 
make  this  effort  will  be  amply  and  richly  rewarded  all  the  days  of  his 
life. 


A  PLEA  TO  THE  INDIFFERENT 

We  need  the  services  of  the  able  men  and  women  in  this  Church 
who  regard  themselves  as  being  unorthodox.  Some  of  them  are  among 
the  brightest  and  most  capable  people  that  we  have  in  the  Church  and 
many  are  of  excellent  character.  Not  a  few  are  in  the  professional  and 
business  world  and  have  permitted  their  vocations  to  so  completely 
occupy  their  time  and  attention  that  they  have  neglected  their  oppor- 
tunities and  duties  in  the  Church,— in  consequence  of  which,  they  find 
their  affection  to  the  great  cause  has  waned  and  their  faith  has  declined. 

Come  back,  you  lawyers,  doctors  and  men  of  affairs— we.  need  you 
and  you  need  us.   Your  faith  is  not  dead,  it  is  but  sleeping.    You  know 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  and  you  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  prophet.    That  knowledge  was  given  to  you  to  bring  you 
joy  and  faith.   It  will  condemn  you  and  bring  you  misery  if  you  do  not 
heed  it.    I  plead  with  you,  my  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  who  are  not 
in  this  conference  today,  who  are  seldom  in  any  meeting  of  the  Church 
if  m  any  way  my  words  shall  reach  you,  come  back  to  those  who  love 
you.    You  will  find  open  arms  to  receive  you.    You  are  not  ostracized 
because  you  have  departed  from  the  straight  path  of  duty— you  belon°- 
to  a  Church  which  is  the  Church  of  Christ,  with  the  Christian  virtues 
of  mercy,  forgiveness  and  tolerance.    Many  of  you  have  entered  the 
new  and  everlasting  covenant— that  great  compact  with  God,  our  Eternal 
father,  as  first  party,  and  all  of  us,  his  children  as  second  parties  by 
virtue  of  which  you  are  to  receive  blessings  and  joys  that  pass 'the 
understanding  m  return  for  keeping  his  commandments.    Do  not  for- 
feit your  rights— they  are  much  too  important  to  you  and  your  loved 
ones.    You  can  not  afford  to  set  an  unworthy  example— your  children 
will  see  it— other  men's  children  will  be  influenced  by  it— it  will  fill 
you  with  remorse  to  know  that  you  have  led  one  soul  astray. 

.  , 1  need  not  remind  y°u  of  all  that  you  should  do,  your  hearts  will 
guide  you  if  you  will  but  consult  them.  If  you  are  not  ashamed  of 
the  Gospel,  criticism  and  doubt  will  leave  you,— faith  and  love  will  take 
their  place.   You  will  bless  humanity  and  God  will  bless  you 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


35 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

As  some  of  you  know,  I  have  been  absent  for  a  short  time  from  the 
city,  and  I  am  very  glad  and  happy  to  come  back.  I  am  glad  that  I  came 
back  "right  end  to,"  because  I  have  been  in  doubt  and  a  good  deal  of 
uncertainty  about  what  they  call  life. 

I  am  not  disposed  to  talk  about  death — to  me  it  is  a  gruesome  sub- 
ject ;  I  am  willing  to  try  to  encourage  the  other  fellow,  but  I  cannot  get 
much  happiness  out  of  it  for  myself. 

I  stand  before  you  Latter-day  Saint  people,  not  knowing  why  I 
should  be  fearful,  or  doubtful,  or  uncertain.  In  April — this  conference 
time — I  have  been  in  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  for  forty-two 
years,  and  I  have  stood  in  this  Tabernacle  from  time  to  time  during  those 
long  years  and  have  failed  in  attending  but  very  few  conferences. 

You  may  think  that  what  I  am  going  to  say  is  personal,  but  I  am 
given  to  talking  about  personal  things.  Brother  Claude  Richards  wrote 
a  book  in  which  he  assembled  together  forty  talks  that  I  have  made  in 
this  Tabernacle  under  the  direction  of  the  brethren  of  the  Authorities. 
Of  course,  those  talks  were  approved  or  they  would  not  have  been 
printed.  I  have  been  absent  in  California,  and  have  had  plenty  of  time 
to  think.  The  brethren  of  the  Authorities  have  been  exceedingly  lenient 
and  kind  to  me,  and  when  I  get  the  blues — which  I  do  occasionally,  I 
become  melancholy  without  much  trouble — at  such  times  I  read  this 
J.  Golden  book.  If  you  could  get  as  much  faith  and  joy  and  hope  and 
encouragement  out  of  it  as  I  did,  it  is  worth  $2.50. 

It  is  not  because  things  are  printed  in  it  that  I  have  said,  that  I 
make  this  statement,  but  I  know  just  as  well  as  I  know  the  sun  sets  that 
there  are  in  that  book  testimonies  and  things  that  I  never  could  repeat. 
Under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit  in  talking  to  the  people,  God 
gave  me  the  spirit  of  testimony.  I  have  read  those  testimonies — there 
are  forty  of  them,  forty  talks — and  I  challenge  you  to  find  one  of  them 
in  which  I  did  not  get  the  spirit  of  testimony,  the  spirit  of  my  office  and 
calling  as  a  witness  for  God.   I  ought  to  be  happy  and  I  am. 

I  am  verging  on  my  eighty-second  year.  I  have  the  same  living 
testimony  today  that  I  had  when  I  began  this  work.  I  have  the  same 
testimony  that  I  had  when  I  stood  in  Virginia  proclaiming  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  people  just  fifty  years  ago.  I  am  telling  you  good 
people  I  have  had  a  full  life  of  experience,  having  a  wife  and  six  chil- 
dren, with  all  life's  joys,  struggles,  hardships  and  sacrifices.  I  am  tell- 
ing you  plainly  and  frankly  that  the  greatest  joy,  the  greatest  peace,  and 
the  greatest  happiness  I  have  ever  had  in  my  life  have  come  when  speak- 
ing under  the  spirit  of  testimony.  I  have  felt  that  thrill  throughout  my 
being.   It  is  a  joy  and  happiness  that  cannot  be  expressed. 

I  stand  before  you  unafraid  and  just  as  humble  as  a  child.  I  marvel, 
I  wonder,  I  cannot  understand  why  I  have  lived  as  long  as  I  have.  I  am 
proud  in  representing  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  in  which  Council  I 
have  been  associated  for  forty-two  years.  I  look  back  with  joy  and  pride 
and  thank  the  Lord  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  that  I  have  been  one  so 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


favored  as  to  associate  not  only  with  the  brethren  of  the  First  Council, 
but  also  with  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  We  have  now — outside  of  Brother  Rulon  S.  Wells,  who  is 
about  the  same  age  as  myself,  though  perhaps  much  stronger  physically — 
more  vigorous  men  in  the  First  Council  than  for  some  years. 

I  hereby  testify  they  are  men  well  chosen ;  they  are  men  I  am  proud 
to  associate  with ;  they  are  men  who  are  worthy  and  capable ;  they  are 
men  who  have  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  burning  in  their  souls.  All  I 
desire,  if  I  never  speak  again,  is  that  they  live  up  to  the  tradition  of  the 
Seventies.  I  am  of  the  old  school  and  declare  that  the  revelations  in 
Section  107  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  are  just  as  clear,  just  as  un- 
derstandable, just  as  comprehensive  as  the  noon-day  sun  as  to  the  calling 
of  the  Seventy.  There  need  be  no  contention  regarding  the  matter; 
there  need  be  no  difference  of  opinion.  It  is  fixed,  it  is  settled,  it  is 
fastened,  as  to  the  calling  of  a  Seventy.  He  is  a  special  witness  of  the 
Lord,  the  bearer  of  the  message,  under  the  direction  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  and  it  is  his  duty  and  calling  to  go  out  into  the  world  and  preach 
the  Gospel  continuously. 

I  have  in  my  pocket  now,  yellow  with  age,  the  teachings  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  his  Apostles  and  to  the  Seventies,  and  I  know  of  no  revelation 
that  changes  or  annuls  Christ's  teachings  one  whit.  I  do  not  criticize  nor 
find  fault  with  the  methods  by  which  we  preach  the  Gospel,  but  I  know 
just  as  well  as  I  know  I  live  and  breathe  that  if  you  have  the  faith  God 
will  provide  the  way. 

When  we  think  we  can  preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  without 
sacrifice,  without  hardship,  without  persecution,  then  we  have  changed 
the  whole  plan.  I  used  to  tell  our  Elders  in  the  South:  "You  let  these 
Christian  churches  alone  and  if  you  do  not  you  will  bring  on  yourselves 
persecution.  I  am  telling  you  Elders" — (and  I  told  it  to  them  in  the 
woods  where  they  would  not  forget  it) — "if  you  will  go  out  under  the 
influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  testify  that  God  is  the  Father,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God,  you  will  get 
all  the  persecution  you  can  stand." 

I  am  a  living  witness  that  this  is  true,  for  the  devil  hates  that  testi- 
mony, and  he  tried  to  destroy  my  father  and  others  of  the  brethren  when 
they  opened  that  great  mission  in  England.  Everything  in  his  power 
was  done.  When  Heber  C.  Kimball  returned  to  the  Prophet  he  was 
alarmed  and  wondered  if  he  had  done  anything  that  was  wrong.  The 
Prophet  told  him:  "No.  You  were  so  close  to  the  Father  that  there 
was  only  a  thin  veil  between  you  and  God,  and  whenever  the  Elders  of 
Israel  are  to  accomplish  a  great  work,  the  devil  gets  in  his  power." 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you  good  people.  I  have  been  in  California 
living  among  those  people  there ;  I  attended  two  of  their  stake  confer- 
ences, I  partook  of  their  spirit ;  they  have  the  same  spirit,  the  same  love, 
the  same  kindness  that  we  have  here,  and  it  repaid  me  for  my  trip  to 
associate  with  those  good  people.  I  am  telling  you,  in  a  burst  of  confidence 
that  they  do  not  want  to  come  back,  either ;  they  like  that  country,  and  I 
do  not  blame  them. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  and  the  brethren  of  the  Authorities,  whom 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


37 


I  sustain  as  fully  and  completely  as  I  know  how.  I  pray  for  these  bless- 
ings in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILFORD  W.  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

On  the  first  day  of  November,  1831,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  re- 
ceived a  revelation.  That  revelation  came  to  be  Section  one  of  the  Doc- 
trine, and  Covenants.  It  stands  as  the  Lord's  preface  to  that  great  and 
wonderful  book.  I  desire  to  read  briefly  from  this  section,  beginning  with 
verse  two,  as  follows : 

For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to  escape ; 
and  there  is  rio  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear,  neither  heart 
that  shall  not  be  penetrated. 

And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow ;  for  their  iniquities  shall 
be  spoken  upon  the  housetops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed. 

And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my  disciples, 
whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days. 

And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have  com- 
manded them. 

Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and  the  authority  of  my  servants,  and  my 
preface  unto  the  book  of  my  commandments,  which  I  have  given  them  to  publish 
unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

This  represents  the  challenge  to  the  present  dispensation.  We 
carry  the  glad  tidings  to  God's  children  in  all  the  earth.  I  am  grateful  to 
be  in  that  field  of  service  which  has  to  do  with  the  carrying  of  the  voice 
of  warning  to  the  people  of  the  world.  I  am  grateful  to  be  associated  with 
the  calling  of  the  priesthood,  that  gives  me  the  responsibility  as  well  as 
the  blessings  and  inspiration  associated  with  the  life  of  a  missionary. 

I  am  happy  to  have  followed,  in  the  North  Central  States  Mission,  the 
work  of  President  John  G.  Allred  and  President  Arthur  Welling.  They 
were  both  able  and  courageous  men,  champions  of  truth.  Elder  Welling, 
my  immediate  predecessor,  did  a  wonderful  work  in  that  mission,  and  has 
many  friends.  His  testimony  has  been  borne  up  and  down  those  states 
and  two  Provinces  of  Canada,  wherever  opportunity  was  afforded.  I  am 
grateful  for  the  spirit  which  he  left  there,  for  the  companionship  which 
he  gave  me,  as  I  was  introduced  into  that  mission  some  nine  months  ago. 

The  people  have  not  forgotten  the  blessing  and  service  which  came 
to  them  through  the  association  of  Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  on  his  trip 
through  the  mission  in  June  and  July  of  last  year.  They  are  inquiring 
when  again  they  shall  have  the  blessing  and  companionship  of  another 
member  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  They  send  to  you, 
my  brethren  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  their  love,  their 
devotion  and  their  spirit  of  loyalty.  They  are  grateful  for  membership 
in  this  Church,  and  have  attempted  to  show  that  gratitude  in  the  past  year 
in  many  ways,  one  of  which  is  marked  more  particularly  by  the  payment 
of  tithes,  to  the  extent  of  an  increase  of  fifty-five  per  cent  oyer  the  year 
previous.   They  are  rallying  to  support  the  truths  of  this  dispensation, 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  ideals  and  ambitions  of  the  standards  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

We  have  associated  there  with  us  some  sixty  missionaries,  your 
sons  and  daughters,  and  they  are  doing  a  service  of  which  we  are  proud, 
and  of  which  you  too,  I  am  sure,  are  proud.  They  are  reflecting  the 
homes  from  which  they  came.  They  are  reflecting  the  teachings  they 
have  received  in  the  organizations  of  the  Church,  in  the  wards  and  stakes 
of  Zion  in  which  they  have  lived.  They  are  going  forward  according  to 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord  in  this  dispensation,  two  by  two,  bearing 
their  testimonies  with  fortitude  and  purpose,  and  are  thinking  always 
of  the  things  which  they  may  be  able  to  accomplish  to  magnify  their 
callings  and  to  bring  credit  and  joy  to  our  Father  in  heaven  and  to  the 
Church. 

We  have  in  the  North  Central  States  Mission  five  full-term  mis- 
sionaries who  are  in  other  parts  of  the  world,  and  one  who  has  this  day 
appeared  preparatory  to  a  missionary  training  course,  that  he  too  might 
go  to  the  foreign  land  of  Norway  and  bear  his  testimony  in  the  land  of 
his  birth,  among  his  own  people. 

The  work  is  progressing  in  the  North  Central  States  Mission.  The 
Lord  has  been  kind  to  us,  and  merciful,  inspiring  our  missionaries  to  dili- 
gence, even  a  new  diligence,  we  believe,  in  the  service  of  the  Church. 
They  are  finding  many  people  who  are  interested  in  hearing  the  story  of 
the  Gospel,  and  are  opening  their  homes,  in  many  instances,  to  cottage 
meetings  and  to  conversations.  They  are  really  interested  in  knowing 
that  for  which  the  Latter-day  Saint  missionary  stands,  and  the  cause 
which  he  represents. 

.  In  the  northern  part  of  North  Dakota,  one  of  our  special  mission- 
aries, Brother  Armin  Hill,  a  teacher  in  one  of  the  state  schools  there, 
has  developed  an  interesting  situation.  He  found  friendship  among  the 
young  people  of  a  certain  church.  They  invited  him  to  assist  them, 
which  he  has  done  using  a  good  deal  of  our  M.  I.  A.  program.  Just 
recently,  through  the  illness  of  the  minister  of  the  church,  Brother  Hill 
has  been  appointed  temporarily  in  charge  of  the  congregation,  with  pretty 
much  of  a  free  hand  to  teach  and  do  the  things  which  he  desires  to  do. 

We  have  had  opportunity  recently  to  go  upon  the  grounds  adjacent 
to  the  University  of  Minnesota,  and  there  meet  with  a  hundred  or  more 
young  people,  students  of  that  university,  at  their  invitation,  to  explain  to 
them  the  background  of  faith  and  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Tesus 
Christ. 

We  are  grateful  for  all  of  these  opportunities,  and  see  the  hand  of 
the  Lord  m  the  ministry  of  the  missionaries  in  our  mission. 

The  State  of  Minnesota  and  some  parts  of  the  country  in  its  vicinity 
have  particularly  impressed  us  as  being  a  field  where  people  are  religious. 
1  here  are  three  hundred  and  twenty-five  churches  in  the  city  of  Min- 
neapolis. They  have  a  system  of  week-day  religious  education,  which  is 
interesting  to  us,  in  which  our  own  children  are  able  to  participate. 
There  is  a  state  law  in  Minnesota  which  provides  three  hours  of  released 


ELDER  WILFORD  W.  RICHARDS 


39 


time  from  the  schools  each  week  for  the  use  of  religious  education.  This 
has  interested  me,  especially  since  I  have  been  associated  in  this  work 
at  home. 

The  Lord  has  opened  the  way  for  men  and  women  to  be  happy,  to 
serve  him  and  each  other,  and  to  rejoice  in  the  great  privileges  that  have 
come  in  this  dispensation,  but  our  hearts  must  be, right. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  little  story,  an  incident  rather,  related  by  an 
author,  Preston  Bradley.  He  tells  of  a  young  child  disturbing  her 
father  during  the  reading  of  his  morning  newspaper.  He,  turned  to  her, 
taking  a  piece  of  that  paper  upon  which  was  a  map  of  the  world,  torn  in 
pieces,  and  said :  "Now,  my  daughter,  see  if  you)  can  put  that  together." 
She  did  so  in  such  a  brief  period  of  time  that  he  was  surprised.  So  he 
questioned  her,  he  said :  "How  could  you  do  it?"  She  said-:  "Why, 
Daddy,  on  the  other  side  of  the  paper  was  a  picture  of  a  man.  I  put  the 
man  together  and  the  world  came  out  all  right." 

Perhaps  after  all  there  is  something  of  a  challenge  in  that  incident. 
At  least,  I  have  accepted  it  myself  as  a  missionary.  This  good  old  world 
of  ours,  if  we  can  put  the  men  together  properly  it  will  come  out  all  right. 
And  so  the  missionaries  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission  are  attempt- 
ing, in  their  humble  way,  to  find  their  place  among  mankind,  and  so  to 
inspire  them  with  the  privileges  and  opportunities  of  living  the  truths  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  the  end  that  they  and  all  of  us  may  con- 
tribute to  the  happiness,  and  the  simplification  of  these  many  complex 
problems  in  our  social  and  political  life  of  today. 

May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  especially  you  parents 
of  missionaries,  struggling  in  your  efforts  to  maintain  them  there.  We 
have  many  testimonies  of  the  assistance  of  the  Lord  in  connection  with 
that  work  financially.  May  you  not  tire.  May  you  be  not  discouraged. 
Your  sons  and  daughters  are  doing  a  work  that  will  fully  justify  every 
effort  you  can  make  for  them  in  the  cause  of  righteousness. 

I  desire  to  bring  to  this  conference,  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
the  love  and  appreciation  of  the  missionaries  and  Saintsi  of  that  mission, 
and  to  the  Authorities  of  this  Church,  those  who  labor  so  diligently  in  this 
work.  We  have  trust  and  confidence  in  them.  I  give  it  to  you  at  this  time 
as  their  message,  asking  God's  blessing  upon  all.  I  do  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

An  anthem.  "Holy  Redeemer,"  was  sung  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers,  violin  obligato  by  William  Hardiman. 

ELDER  LeGRAND  RlICHARDS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  having  the 
privilege  of  representing  the  good  people  and  the  missionaries  of 
the  Southern  States  Mission.  It  is  needless  to  say  that  I  am 
proud  to  be  honored  of  the  Lord  and  my  brethren  to  preside  in 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  great  mission  of  the  Church.  I  have  had  a  very  delightful 
time  while  laboring  there.  I  realize  that  the  mission  is  accom- 
plishing a  great  deal  for  the  Church  and  for  the  people  of  the 

11     j  been  kd  t0  sa^  during  my  missionary  work  in 

that  land,  that  if  this  Church  had  made  no  other  contribution  to 
the  great  work  of  the  Lord  in  the  earth  than  its  missionary  sys- 
tem, it  would  be  something  that  all  the  world  might  envy  I 
realize  that  a  great  responsibility  rests  upon  the  Church  in  car- 
rying on  this  missionary  work.  When  the  Prophet  Joseph  re- 
ceived the  glorious  revelations  that  came  to  him,  he  also  received 
a  great  responsibility,  for  the  message  was  to  be  carried  into  all 
the  world. 

After  the  crucifixion  of  our  Lord,  when  he  tarried  anions  his 
disciples,  he  said  that  unto  him  was  given  all  power  in  heaven 
and  upon  earth.  And  he  said,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world  and 
preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature,  baptizing  them  in  the  name 
of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost;  and  lo  I 
am  with  you  always  even  unto  the  end.  of  the  world."  I  want 
to  bear  testimony  to  you  this  day  that  every  day  in  our  mission 
there  are  evidences  that  the  Savior  of  the  world  has  not  forgotten 
the  promise  thus  made  to  his  disciples.  I  realize  that  those  unto 
whom  he  spoke  were  not  privileged  to  tarry  until  the  end  of  the 
world,  but  those  who  have  followed  after,  with  the  same  divine 

m^lwT      A^V1^  are  receivi"&  evidences  of  the  wonderful 
manifestation  of  his  blessing- 

.     Day  by  day,  letters  come  to  the  Mission  Office  from  mis- 

ODeX^V  %  ^'testifying  of  how  the  Lord  is 

?nd  woJen  ^  u  -hem'  h°W  he  is  t0Uchin-  the  hearts  °f  men 
f 3th£?  '  m  16  15  fermittlng  them  to  be  seen  in  dreams  by 
faithful  people  before  they  come  to  their  homes,  which  is  evi- 

stnTrv  J''6  V  '  that  thC  Savi°r  °f  the  Wodd  »  with  his  ml  - 
sionary  servants. 

_  Sif er  ^ehards  and  I  visited  a  little  woman  a  few  weeks 

her-  She  It ft  ^V?*^  of  how  the  Gospel  had  come  to 
hci  .  She  said  she  had  lost  a  son  about  22  years  of  age  and  she 
was  very  much  perturbed  about  it,  because  she  was*  a  Baptist 

been  banl^d11  ^^T'?  °f  baptism'  but  her  so»  had  ^ve 
nravin^  Ptn  ft  T      1  V*1    1  WaS  m  ^  bedroom  on  mJ  knees 
the? was v     hone  S°me  C°?fort  and  Some  assurance  that 

She  said [  "T  11?      r  my  f°n'  When  a  knock  came  at  the  door." 
,     * '    f  arose  from  my  knees  and  went  to  the  door  and  there 

hand    Ind  l  rSd  I  one  of  the  sisters  held  in  her 

nancl,  and  1  read  the  words,   'Baptism  for  the  dead'  "    She  said 

abouTit^nd  V  JUSt  PerS°nS  1  am  l00kin^  fo^-tell  me  all 
the  ChuVch  a  V1Slt  °r  tW°  by  thG  mis^onaries  she  joined 

I  was  in  the  city  of  Augusta,  Georgia,  a  few  months  ago, 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


41 


and  a  good  sister  there  told  me  this  story :  She  said  she  had  a 
friend  in  that  city  who  was  a  member  of  the  Church,  and  this 
friend  said  that  her  grandfather  was  the  one  man  in  the  county 
in  which  he  resided  in  former  days  who  would  receive  our 
Mormon  missionaries  in  his  home.  One  day  her  cousin  said  to 
his  grandfather,  "Grandfather,  the  next  time  those  Mormon  mis- 
sionaries come  here  if  you  receive  them  I  will  slap  them  in  the 
face."  And,  she  said,  "True  to  his  promise,  the  next  time  they 
came  he  did  slap  one  of  them  but  the  Elder  did  not  retaliate."  She 
said,  "That  man's  mind  left  him  and  he  became  an  idiot,  and  he  has 
been  in  the  insane  asylum  ever  since." 

I  could  stand  here  and  relate  to  you  for  a  long  time  the  evi- 
dences that  the  Lord  is  with  his  missionaries  guiding  them  in 
their  work.  I  feel  that  it  is  a  glorious  privilege  for  our  boys  and 
girls  to  be  engaged  in  this  great  work  of  the  Master.  I  also  want 
to  bear  testimony  to  you  that  it  is  improving  their  lives.  A  week 
ago  last  Monday,  at  a  priesthood  meeting  at  which  a  small  group 
of  missionaries  were  present,  one  missionary  bore  testimony  that 
since  his  arrival  in  the  field  six  months  before,  his  father  had 
started  attending  Sunday  School  and  priesthood  meeting,  and  he 
said  that  he  had  received  a  letter  from  his  Bishop  stating  that  the 
attendance  at  sacrament  meeting  had  increased  because  heretofore 
they  had  not  had  a  missionary  out  in  the  field  for  some  time.  An- 
other young  man  arose  and  said  that  during  the  six  months  he  had 
been  there,  his  father  had  mastered  the  habit  of  using  tobacco  to 
which  he  had  been  addicted  for  forty  years.  I  wish  it  were  pos- 
sible for  every  boy  in  this  Church  of  proper  age  and  proper  con- 
duct, to  have  the  privilege  of  going  into  the  mission  field.  As  I 
stand  before  you  today  and  realize  that  30  years  ago  this  month 
I  left  my  home  to  go  on  my  first  mission,  and  realize  what  a  con- 
tribution that  was  to  me  and  my  life,  I  thank  the  Lord  for  that 
great  privilege.  I  would  not  want  a  son  of  mine  to  live  through 
mortality  without  having  the  privilege  of  doing  the  thing  that  I 
did.  I  would  like  him  to  know  the  joy  and  the  thrill  that  come 
when  one  is  privileged  to  bear  testimony  of  the  restoration  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  those  who  have  not  had  the  privilege  of 
enjoying  the  blessings  and  the  gifts  of  the  Gospel. 

I  know  that  the  Lord  is  with  his  people.  I  know  that  the 
Lord  is  with  the  missionary  work.  I  want  to  read  to  you  just  a 
few  words  in  closing  from  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith — a  vision 
that  he  saw  in  the  Kirtland  Temple  January  21,  1836,  the  day 
upon  which  Father  Smith  was  ordained  a  Patriarch.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  saw  in  glorious  vision  his  brother  Alvin,  David  W.  Pat- 
ten and  others,  in  the  Celestial  kingdom,  and  these  are  the  words 
he  records  in  the  Church  History : 

I  saw  the:  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Lamb,  who  are  now  upon  the  earth 
who  hold  the  keys  of  this  last  ministry,  in  foreign  lands-,  standing  together 
in  a  circle,  much  fatigued,  with  their  clothes  tattered  and  feet  swollen,  with 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


their  eyes  cast  downward,  and  Jesus  standing  in  their  midst,  and  they  did 
not  behold  Him.  The  Savior  looked  upon  them  and  wept. 

I  am  sure  that  as  we  read  the  account  of  how  the  early 
apostles  went  forth  to  preach  the  Gospel,  we  can  visualize  them 
as  the  Prophet  Joseph  did,  with  their  clothes  tattered  and  their 
feet  swollen,  and  the  Savior  of  the  world  was  there,  according  to 
his  promise — "Lo,  I  will  be  with  you  always,  even  unto  the  end 
of  the  world." 

He  said  further: 

I  also  beheld  Elder  M'Lellin  in  the  South,  standing  upon  a  hill,  sur- 
rounded by  a  vast  multitude  preaching  to  them,  and  a  lame  man  standing 
before  him  supported  by  his  crutches;  he  threw  them  down  at  his  word  and 
leaped  as  a  hart,  by  the  mighty  power  of  God.  Also,  I  saw  Elder  Brigham 
Young  standing  in  a  strange  land,  in  the  far  south  and  west,  in  a  desert 
place,  upon  a  rock  in  the  midst  of  about  a  dozen  men  of  color,  who  appeared 
hostile.  He  was  preaching  to  them  in  their  own  tongue,  and  the  angel  of 
God  standing  above  his  head,  with  a  drawn  sword  in  his  hand,  protected 
him,  but  he  did  not  see  it. 

I  want  to  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  when 
your  boys  and  girls  go  out  into  the  ministry  of  the  Lord  the 
power  of  the  Almighty  God  goes  with  them.  He  is  raising  up 
friends  unto  them  on  every  hand.  He  is  breaking  down  prejudice. 
He  is  opening  the  doors  of  the  honest,  and  truly,  as  he  said  to 
the  Seventies  when  he  sent  them  forth,  "He  that  receiveth  you, 
receiveth  me,  and  he  that  rejecteth  you  rejecteth  me."  Is  it  not 
a  glorious  privilege  for  our  youth  to  go  forth  so  endowed  by 
the  powers  of  heaven,  so  commissioned,  and  with  the  right  and 
authority  to  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord? 

I  pray  the  Lord's  choicest  blessings  to  be  with  his  people 
throughout  the  world.  It  seems  to  me  that  a  new  day  is  dawn- 
ing; it  seems  almost  as  if  the  time  were  here  when  nations  might 
be  born  into  the  Church  over  night. 

One  of  our  missionaries  sent  this  report  a  few  days  ago:  He 
said  he  had  had  a  long  talk  with  a  Methodist  minister,  and  at 
the  close  of  the  conversation,  the  minister  said,  "My  boy,  you 
may  have  the  very  thing  I  have  been  looking  for.  I  do  not  be- 
lieve the  teachings  of  my  church,  nor  have  I  taught  them  to  my 
people.  I  have  told  my  congregation  repeatedly  that  I  believe 
that  in  this  day  the  God  of  heaven  would  send  forth  a  Church 
different  from  anything  else  we  know  of  today." 

What  a  glorious  privilege  to  be  able  to  bear  testimony  that 
the  God  of  heaven  has  done  that  very  thing,  and  that  we  do  not 
have  the  work  of  man.  I  testify  to  this ;  I  know  that  God  lives. 
I  know  that  he  hears  and  answers  prayers.  I  know  he  is  in  this 
work.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and 
living  God.   I  leave  that  testimony  in  his  name,  Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


43 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  identified  with 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  doesn't  seem  very 
long  since  I  bore  my  first  testimony.  It  was  at  the  time  of  my  baptism, 
or  when  I  was  being  confirmed.  I  had  been  reared  in  a  Latter-day 
Saint  home  and  had  been  taught  to  pray  by  a  devoted  mother.  I  was 
made  to  understand  that  we  are  children  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  Then 
I  was  baptized,  when  eight  years  of  age,  and  became  a  member  of  the 
Church.  And  by  the  way,  I  was  baptized  in  old  City  Creek  on  the  north 
side  of  this  block. 

a  child's  faith  and  understanding 

At  the  fast  meeting  that  was  held  after  I  had  been  confirmed  a 
member  of  the  Church  a  dear  old  auntie,  who  long  since  has  gone  home, 
asked  me,  "Don't  you  want  to  bear  your  testimony?"  I  had  heard 
others  bear  their  testimonies,  but  I  had  never  thought  of  bearing  mine. 
I  arose  to  my  feet  and  I  was  just  as  sure  then  that  I  belonged  to  the 
Church  of  the  Lamb  of  God  as  I  am  today.  I  was  only  a  child,  and  that 
brings  to  my  attention  the  fact  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  our  people  a 
commandment  that  we  are  to  teach  our  children  to  pray  and  to  walk 
uprightly  before  him.  He  has  said  that  parents  in  Zion  having  children 
shall  teach  them  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  faith  in  God,  and  see 
that  they  are  baptized  and  have  the  hands  of  the  servants  of  God  laid 
upon  their  heads  for  the  bestowal  of  the  Holy  Ghost  when  eight  years 
of  age.  And  if  we  as  parents  fail  in  this  duty  the  sin  will  be  upon  our 
heads. 

There  are  many  people  who  have  believed  that  it  is  not  possible  for 
children  to  understand  at  eight,  but  I  stand  here  today  as  a  witness  that 
I  had  that  understanding  as  far  as  it  was  possible  for  me  as  a  child  to 
know. 

THOSE  WHO  DILIGENTLY  SEEK  HIM 

We  are  living  in  a  time  when  the  world  needs  faith.  Men  and  women 
throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  this  earth  lack  faith  and  they 
certainly  lack  understanding.  The  Lord  in  his  mercy  has  given  that 
to  us  and  in  the  very  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
referred  to  here  today,  he  warns  us  of  the  things  that  are  to  happen.  He 
tells  us  of  the  difficulties  that  will  arise,  and  later  places  upon  the 
membership  of  this  Church  the  obligation  to  divide  with  our  Father's 
children  the  assurance  of  the  blessings  of  eternal  life. 

There  are  many  great  church  organizations  in  the  world,  many 
devout  men  and  women  living  according  to  the  will  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  as  they  understand  it.  Reference  was  made  by  the  preceding 
speaker  to  the  faithful  pastor  of  a  church  who  believed  that  the  Lord 
would  speak  to  the  world  and  would  raise  up  His  Church. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


All  men  who  will  live  up  to  the  light  that  the  Lord  has  offered 
to  them  and  seek  him  in  earnest  prayer  will  have  their  hearts  touched, 
their  minds  will  be  influenced,  and  opportunity  will  be  offered  to 
them  to  know  that  God  has  spoken  again. 

THE  GOSPEL  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 

When  the  Savior  was  upon  the  earth  he  went  to  and  fro  among  the 
people,  not  with  a  loud  voice,  making  a  great  noise,  but  in  humility  he 
went  about  blessing  the  children  of  men.  His  disciples  too  visited  among 
the  people,  teaching  and  blessing  them.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
a  gospel  of  blessing,  not  a  gospel  of  boasting,  not  a  gospel  of  fault-finding 
and  criticism,  but  a  gospel  of  industry,  purity,  obedience,  peace,  love, 
chanty,  kindness,  faith  and  patience.  Therefore,  as  members  of  his  great 
Church  we  ought  to  be  exemplars  in  this  regard  to  all  the  world. 

TEACHING  IN  THE  HOME 

I  regret  that  there  are  among  us  some  men  and  women  who  neglect 
their  opportunities  to  live  and  teach  the  Gospel  in  their  homes,  and  the 
result  is  that  their  children  grow  up  without  an  assurance  of  the  divine 
mission  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  fail  to  observe  the  commandment  that 
God  gave  to  teach  our  children  these  things  that  are  necessary.  Fathers 
and  mothers,  teach  your  children  as  directed.  What  a  joy  it  ought  to  be 
to  you  to  teach  your  little  children  how  to  pray,  to  draw  them  near  to  our 
Heavenly  Father,  to  let  them  feel  the  influence  of  his  presence,  to  know 
that  he  can  hear  and  answer  prayer.  What  a  joy  it  ought  to  be  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  gather  around  their  own  firesides  and  under  the 
influence  of  family  prayer  call  down  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

THE  TRUTH  MADE  MANIFEST 

The  trouble  with  mankind  today  is  that  they  are  depending  upon 
the  wisdom  of  men.  They  are  seeking  the  influence  and  association  and 
direction  of  men  who  are  teaching  their  own  philosophies,  and  many  of 
these  philosophies  are  vain.  The  Lord  offers  to  all  of  us  opportunity  to 
know  his  will,  to  know  what  our  duty  is  in  order  that  we  may  obtain 
eternal  life.  This  is  not  a  militant  church  to  which  we  belong.  This  is  a 
church  that  holds  out  peace  to  the  world.  It  is  not  our  duty  to  go  into 
the  world  and  find  fault  with  others,  neither  to  criticize  men  because  they 
do  not  understand.  But  it  is  our  privilege,  in  kindness  and  love,  to  go 
among  them  and  divide  with  them  the  truth  that  the  Lord  has  revealed  in 
this  latter  day. 

How  humble  we  ought  to  feel,  not  boastful ;  how  grateful  we  ought 
to  teel,  not  selfish,  when  we  realize  that  from  among  the  millions  of  God's 
children  we  have  been  gathered,  and  the  truth  has  been  made  manifest 
unto  us  and  we  are  made  to  understand  the  purpose  of  life,  to  realize 
where  we  came  from,  why  we  are  here,  and  the  opportunities  that  God 
Has  prepared  for  us  to  go  hence  and  enjoy  eternal  life  in  the  celestial 
kingdom.   Ought  that  not  to  cause  us  to  feel  humble?   And  surely  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


45 


Spirit  of  God  will  be  in  our  souls  if  in  humility  we  desire  to  divide  with 
our  fellows  the  blessings  of  life. 

GREATER  THAN  SECULAR  KNOWLEDGE 

A  plea  has  been  made  by  Brother  Richards  of  the  Southern  States 
Mission  that  we  send  our  sons  and  daughters  into  the  mission  field.  We 
spend  a  very  great  deal  of  money  giving  them  the  opportunity  for  edu- 
cation in  the  secular  institutions  of  the  world.  We  feel  it  is  a  great  privi- 
lege to  have  our  boys  and  our  girls  graduate  and  receive  a  degree  in  the 
universities  of  •the  world,  and  it  is.  But  I  say  to  you  that  there  is  no 
university  that  I  know  of  in  the  world  that  will  give  to  the  human  family 
the  knowledge  that  God  lives,  that  will  plant  in  the  lives  of  the  children 
of  men  an  assurance  of  eternal  life,  unless  it  be  the  one  that  belongs  to 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  This  is  not  because 
good  men  and  good  women  do  not  desire  to  know.  They  do  not  and 
can  not  teach  the  Gospel  because  they  have  not  received  it.  But  we  have 
received  it,  and  with  that  reception  there  comes  to  us  a  tremendous  respon- 
sibility. 

BLESSINGS  THROUGH  MISSIONARY  SERVICE 

It  has  been  a  joy  to  me  to  see  men  and  women  economize  and  plan 
in  order  that  their  children  may  go  into  the  world.  Within  the  last  few 
weeks  a  young  man  from  an  outlying  settlement  left  to  go  into  the 
mission  field,  and  his  two  sisters  who  are  employed  here  in  Salt  Lake  City 
are  sending  him  part  of  their  small  salaries  that  he  may  enjoy  the  blessing 
of  a  mission.  He  is  the  first  of  a  large  family  of  children  to  go  into 
the  mission  field  to  disseminate  the  truth,  and  yet  he  is  a  descendant  of 
those  who  received  the  Gospel  from  the  early  Elders  of  this  Church.  I 
know  the  joy  that  will  come  into  the  hearts  of  .  those  two  fine  women  who 
have  faith  to  give  their  means  to  their  brother  in  order  that  he  ma)' 
serve  the  Lord  in  the  field.  They  will  receive  the  blessing  that  comes 
from  teaching  the  Gospel,  as  far  as  it  is  possible  to  receive  it  without 
personal  service. 

As  I  go  to  and  fro  in  the  mission  field  I  see  the  development  of  these 
fine  young  men  and  women  who  are  unselfishly  serving,  and  realize  that 
not  only  do  they  learn  the  language  of  the  countries  in  which  they  labor, 
but  they  know  that  they  have  a  gift  from  the  Lord  to  disseminate  a  truth 
that  the  people  may  not  obtain  in  any  other  way. 

ALL  MUST  HEAR  THE  GOSPEL 

We  are  living  in  the  latter  days,  in  the  time  when  the  Lord  said  that 
the  world  would  be  afflicted  by  pestilence  and  earthquakes,  that  the  sea 
should  heave  itself  beyond  its  bounds,  that  there  should  be  thunderings 
and  lightnings,  and  wars  and  rumors  of  wars.  Surely  the  scriptures  are 
being  fulfilled,  but  before  the  earth  shall  be  cleansed  and  purified  and 
prepared  for  the  second  coming  of  our  Lord,  his  Gospel  must  be  pro- 
claimed to  all  the  nations  of  the  earth.    His  sons  and  daughters  must 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


carry  the  message  of  life  and  salvation  that  means  everything  to  those 
who  are  in  darkness. 

Do  we  realize  that  every  man  is  in  the  image  of  God  and  is  a  son  of 
God,  and  every  woman  his  daughter?  No  matter  where  they  may  be, 
they  are  his  children,  and  he  loves  them  and  desires  their  salvation.' 
Surely  as  members  of  this  Church  we  cannot  sit  idly  by.  We  cannot 
receive  the  beneficent  favor  of  our  Heavenly  Father  that  is  bestowed 
upon  us,  the  knowledge  of  eternal  life,  and  selfishly  retain  it,  thinking 
that  we  may  be  blessed  thereby.  It  is  not  what  we  receive  that  enriches 
our  lives,  it  is  what  we  give.  It  is  not  the  things  that  come  to  us  without 
effort;  it  is  that  which  results  from  work  that  rejoices  our  souls. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  THIS  ASSEMBLAGE 

We  are  met  in  this  marvelous  tabernacle  under  the  influence  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  not  as  an  ordinary  convention ;  we  are  .not  assembled 
here  to  be  taught  by  men  the  things  that  they  have  obtained  in  the  schools 
of  the.  world,  but  we  are  here  to  wait  upon  our  Father  in  heaven,  your 
father  and  mine,  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  the  Author  of  our  being,  the 
one  who  gives  to  us  everything  that  we  enjoy;  and  we  are  here  to  wait 
upon  him  knowing  that  he  has  promised  us  that  if  even  two  or  three  shall 
meet  m  his  name  he  will  be  there,  and  that  to  bless  them. 

Surely  we  have  been  blessed  this  day.  The  Spirit  of  God  has  been 
poured  out  upon  us.  My  heart  has  been  warmed  and  filled  as  I  have 
looked  out  into  this  great  audience  to  see  men  and  women  who  have  come 
trom  the  various  parts  of  this  great  nation  and  some  from  other  nations. 

I  see  now  a  group  of  our  brothers  and  sisters  from  the  far-off 
Hawaiian  Islands  who  have  come  that  long  distance.  Why  ?  In  order 
that  they  may  worship  God  at  the  headquarters  of  the  Church,  that  they 
may  partake  of  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  as  it  flows  through  his  ser- 
vants who  may  be  called  to  teach.  I  feel  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart 
to  say,  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  making  this  long 
pilgrimage  ;  bless  you  all  who  have  forsaken  your  homes  temporarily  and 
have  come  up  to  worship.  You  have  not  come  for  sight-seeing  you  have 
not  come  to  partake  of  the  influences  that  are  found  in  the  theatres  and 
amusement  halls  of  the  world,  but  you  have  come  up  to  worship. 

What  a  priceless  privilege  to  worship  our  Father  in  heaven  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son !  Ought  we  not  to  be  grateful  ?  It  seems 
to  me  that  as  I  look  into  your  eager,  upturned  faces  and  realize  what  the 
Lord  has  done  for  you  and  for  me,  there  are  no  words  of  mine  that  can 
adequately  express  the  feelings  of  our  hearts  as  we  are  filled  by  that 
power  that  comes  from  him. 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know  that 
this  is  the  work  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  established  by  his  beloved  Son. 

ZrlLl  T  ,t6  Vn  f  gfeat  CThurch  or?anizaitons  and  in  all  schools  of 
learning  truth  is  taught,  yet  I  do  know  that  all  the  truth  that  is 
possessed  by  all  of  them  that  is  necessary  in  preparation  for  eternal  life 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


47 


in  the  celestial  kingdom  is  a  part  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord, 
and  has  been  bestowed  upon  us,  if  we  have  the  desire  to  receive  it. 

THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  SACRED  MUSIC 

We  have  listened  to  sweet  voices  that  have  entertained  and  entranced 
us.  I  think  it  is  delightful  to  hear  as  we  have  a  chorus  of  "Singing 
Mothers."  And  it  is  pleasing  also  to  have  a  chorus  of  singing  fathers 
in  the  priesthood  quorums.  I  am  grateful  for  a  Church  that  teaches  the 
joy  and  encourages  the  sweet  influences  that  come  from  music.  So  im- 
portant are  the  hymns  of  the  Church  that  our  Heavenly  Father  appointed 
the  Prophet's  wife  Emma  to  select  hymns  that  were  appropriate  for 
sacred  services.  We  do  have  excellent  hymns  in  this  Church.  Even  our 
Primary  children,  beginning  in  their  tender  years,  are  taught  not  only 
to  sing  the  songs  of  the  world,  but  they  are  taught  to  sing  the  praises 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  to  give  thanksgiving  in  the  music  that  is 
prepared.   What  a  comforting,  uplifting  influence  there  is  in  music. 

AN  INCIDENT  IN  THE  SOUTHERN  STATES  * 

Brother  LeGrand  Richards  has  spoken  for  the  Southern  States 
Mission.  Many  years  ago,  two  humble  Elders  laboring  in  that  mission 
were  walking  through  the  woods  and  finally  came  out  into  a  clearing 
where  nestled  a  humble  cottage,  the  home  of  friends.  Overlooking  this 
clearing  was  a  hill  covered  by  large  trees.  It  had  been  a  warm  day.  When 
the  Elders  arrived,  instead  of  sitting  in  the  house  they  took  their  chairs 
out  on  the  shady  porch  to  visit  with  the  family.  They  didn't  know  that 
they  were  being  watched  or  that  danger  threatened.  They  were  there  as 
servants  of  the  Lord.  They  had  come  through  a  section  of  the  country 
that  was  unfriendly  and  having  found  a  home  where  the  family  was 
friendly  they  were  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  it. 

They  were  asked  to  sing  and  they  selected  one  of  our  hymns,  "Do 
What  is  Right."   You  know  the  hymn.    And  as  they  sang  it,  even  as 
they  started  to  sing  it,  there  arrived  on  the  brow  of  the  hill  above  them 
a  mob  of  twenty  horsemen.  They  had  come  there  with  the  determination 
to  drive  those  missionaries  out.   As  they  came  to  the  top  of  the  hill  they 
heard  those  missionaries  singing.  The  leader  of  the  mob  got  off  his  horse. 
He  looked  down  among  those  trees  and  saw  the  roof  of  the  house.  He 
could  not  see  the  Elders.   They  continued  to  sing.   One  by  one  the  men 
got  off  their  horses.  Gradually  they  removed  their  hats,  and  when  the 
last  note  had  died  away  and  the  Elders  had  finished  their  singing  the 
men  mounted  their  horses  and  rode  away,  and  the  leader  said  to  his 
companions,  "Men  who  sing  like  that  are  not  the  kind  of  men  we  have 
been  told  they  are." 

OUR  RESPONSIBILITY  TO  DISSEMINATE  THE  TRUTH 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  God's  work,  established  for  the  salva- 
tion and  exaltation  not  of  a  few  but  for  all  men  and  all  women  who  will 
accept  it,  preparing  us  for  a  place  in  the  celestial  kingdom,  offering  op- 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


portunity  for  all  our  Father's  sons  and  daughters  eventually  to  dwell 
with  him. 

Now,  knowing  that  and  realizing  the  responsibility  of  disseminating 
that  truth  among  the  children  of  men,  how  anxious  you  ought  to  be,  how 
anxious  I  ought  to  be  that  my  own  household  be  in  order,  that  the  mem- 
bers of  that  household  be  prepared,  if  they  are  called  upon,  to  go  to  the 
uttermost  corners  of  the  earth  and  disseminate  this  truth,  to  the  end  that 
men  and  women  may  know  of  a  surety  that  God  lives  and  that  we  are 
all  his  children. 

Think  of  the  difference  between  hope  and  knowledge;  think  of  the 
difference  between  desire  to  know  and  positive  assurance.  Our  Heavenly 
father  has  promised  us  that  if  we  will  receive  the  ordinances  of  his  Holv 
House,  if  we  will  partake  of  the  influences  that  come  as  a  result  of 
obedience  to  his  Gospel,  we  may  know,  as  we  know  that  we  live,  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  his  work  is  upon  the  earth  and  that  we 
are  preparing  ourselves  here  for  eternal  happiness ;  or  if  we  fail  to  take 
advantage  of  our  opportunities,  for  eternal  regret. 

IN  OUR  OWN  COMMUNITIES 

Brethren  and  sisters,  you  who  live  in  the  organized  stakes  of  Zion 
when  you  go  home  from  this  conference  take  with  you  the  spirit  that  you 
find  here  If  there  be  those  who  are  careless,  renew  your  efforts  and  en- 
courage them  to  live  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Inconvenience  your- 
selves, if  necessary,  to  bring  those  who  are  careless  and  indifferent  into 
close  contact  with  the  worship  of  the  Lord  as  carried  out  in  our  chapels 
and  temples.  Let  us  do  this  earnestly. 

The  time  is  short.  Not  very  many  years  remain  for  some  of  us  in 
mortality  If  we  are  to  do  the  work  of  the  Lord  we  must  be  about  our 
1'ather  s  business.  There  isn't  a  man  here,  not  a  woman  here  but  is  called 
to  labor,  to  do  good  m  the  world  and  to  bless  the  communities  in  which 
we  live.  Oh,  how  happy  we  will  be  if  we  avail  ourselves  of  our  oppor- 
tunities and  serve  our  Heavenly  Father  by  serving  mankind. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  PRIVILEGES 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  thank  you  for  the  comfort 
and  satisfaction  that  you  have  given  to  me.  I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege 
I  have  of  mingling  with  you  in  your  homes  and  in  the  houses  of  worship 
throughout  the  land. 

President  Grant,  I  am  grateful  to  you  and  to  my  brethren  here  for 
the  privilege  that  I  have  of  associating  with  you,  each  and  every  one  for 
he  encouragement  and  the  help  that  you  give  to  me.  God  bless 'you 
brethren  from  the  mission  fields.  You  have  a  marvelous  work  to  perform 
and  our  Heavenly  Father  will  magnify  you  and  bless  vou  in  proportion  to 
your  faithfulness. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  all,  that  we  may  be  worthy  of  our 
high  cabling  and  the  opportunities  that  he  has  offered  to  us  as  fathers 
<md_  mothers,  as  parents  and  children.   Let  us  be  what  God  would  have 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


49 


us  be  and  Zion  will  arise  and  shine  and  our  Heavenly  Father  will  multi- 
ply our  opportunities  and  blessings. 

Not  very  long  from  now  the  summons  will  reach  every  one  of  us. 
Our  earth  life  will  be  complete  and  we  will  stand  on  the  other  side  of  the 
Great  Divide.  Oh,  how  I  pray  that  when  that  time  comes  we  shall  face 
our  record  unashamed  and  unafraid  because  we  have  magnified  our  call- 
ings and  been  worthy  of  our  membership  in  this  Church. 

That  the  Lord  may  add  his  blessing,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  had  the  feeling  today, 
somewhat,  that  I  had  many  years  ago ;  in  fact,  when  I  was  a 
child  I  stood  here  in  this  building;  then  the  experience  of  childish 
humility  which  comes  from  having  made  mistakes,  overwhelmed 
me. 

Brother  Evan  Stephens  had  four  boys  who  he  thought  could 
sing,  and  so  he  made  a  quartet.  Those  four  boys  were  Heber  Al- 
dous,  Horace  Ensign,  Zeb  Jacobs  and  myself.  He  had  told  the 
other  three  that  they  should  repeat  the  chorus,  but  he  didn't  tell 
me.  So  when  the  chorus  was  sung  once  I  turned  around  and  took 
my  seat,  and  the  other  three  were  left  standing.  I  felt  so  humiliated 
that  that  finished  my  aspirations  in  the  line  of  vocal  music. 

I  am  grateful  and  indeed  happy  for  the  privilege  of  being 
here  and  partaking  of  the  spirit  of  this  conference  and  the  splendid 
influence  which  is  here  with  us.  I  know  that  some  of  you  have 
traveled  many  miles  and  made  sacrifice  to  reach  this  place,  and 
there  keeps  coming  into  my  mind  the  thought  of  the  old  Jewish 
pilgrims  who  anciently  went  to  their  synagogues,  a  people  who 
were  beset  with  privations,  misfortune,  torment,  all  manner  of 
humiliation,  and  as  they  went  to  their  temples,  they  tried  to  divest 
themselves  of  those  thoughts  which  tended  to  take  their  minds 
from  the  worship  which  they  intended  to  perform.  It  is  claimed 
that  on  the  soles  of  their  sandals,  the  soles  of  their  shoes,  these  old 
Jews  wrote  the  name  of  their  enemy  and  in  walking  to  their  syna- 
gogue left  the  name  and  also  the  memory  of  that  which  had  per-- 
plexed  them,  in  the  dust,  and  so  sat  and  worshiped  with  a  clean 
heart  and  a  free,  untrammeled  mind. 

We  may  do  the  same  here.  We  may  leave  behind  us  those 
little  besetting,  annoying  things  that  would  take  our  minds  from 
the  important  issues  of  this  blessed  conference  and  this  great  gath- 
ering, that  we  may  do  that  which  we  have  set  out  to  do,  worship 
God  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ;  that  we  may  worship  that  Christ 
who  came  from  glory,  came  from  the  realms  above,  from  the  celes- 
tial courts,  to  be  born  here  on  earth  in  a  manger  amid  humble, 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


meek  and  lowly  circumstances ;  that  Christ  who  went  forth  and  in 
his  power  and  in  his  majesty  healed  the  sick,  protected  the  weak, 
befriended  the  helpless ;  that  Christ  who  with  just  a  word  accom- 
plished what  no  physician  has  yet  accomplished. 

You  recall  the  leper  who  came  to  him  and  said  "If  thou  wilt 
thou  canst  make  me  clean."  Christ  said:  "I  will;  be  thou  clean." 
Instantly  the  leper  was  healed,  and  went  his  way  rejoicing. 
Thousands  of  institutions  have  been  established  in  the  world  for 
the  purpose  of  taking  care  of  incurables ;  but  one  word  from  Christ, 
and  there  were  no  incurables— the  Christ  who  left  his  message  in 
word  of  mouth  and  in  action;  the  Christ  who,  on  that  hill,  the 
mount,  has  declared  that  unto  us  which  shall  ever  live  and 'ever 
ring  in  our  ears,  his  Sermon  on  the  Mount;  the  Christ  who  took 
the  ordinary  things  of  life,  and  around  them  wove  truth,  such  won- 
derful, glorious  truths  that  today  they  live. 

You  think  of  the  foxes  and  you  think  of  Christ.  You  think 
even  of  the  bird,  a  little  gray  sparrow,  and  you  think  of  Christ. 
There  comes  to  your  mind  this  statement :  "Are  not  two  sparrows 
sold  for  a  farthing?"  Then,  too,  the  lilies  of  the  field,  when  we  see 
them  as  we  may  be  carelessly  going  our  way,  instinctively  we 
think :  "They  toil  not,  neither  do  they  spin."  The  Christ  with  whom 
even  his  enemies  could  find  no  fault,  and  having  tried  him,  washed 
well  their  hands  of  him.  Then  through  that  great  Jewish  mob, 
there  came  one  rushing  to  Pilate  with  a  message.  That  message 
said :  "Have  thou  nothing  to  do  with  that  just  man,  for  I  have  suf- 
fered many  things  this  day  in  a  dream  because  of  him"— a  message 
from  Pilate's  wife. 

And  when,  as  he  hung  upon  the  cross,  the  one  who  ordered 
the  nails  driven  into  his  feet  and  his  hands,  the  one  who  gave  his 
order  to  pierce  his  side  with  the  sword,  said :  "Truly  this  man  was 
the  son  of  God." 

That  is  why  we  have  come  here  today  to  worship  Jesus  Christ 
and  his  Father,  our  God.  But  beyond  that  there  is  just  this  that 
makes  us  a  peculiar  people :  You  will  recall  the  angel's  voice  to  the 
shepherds,  and  the  encouraging  words :  "Fear  not,  for  unto  you  is 
born  this  day  in  the  city  of  David  a  Savior  which  is  Christ  the 
Lord.  How  even  the  angels  of  God  spoke  concerning  this  man, 
Jesus  Christ. 

You  will  remember  the  testimony  of  God  at  his  baptism,  as  he 
arose  from  the  water,  the  voice  from  heaven:  "This  is  my  beloved 
Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased."  The  whole  world  believes  this, 
and  the  world  accepts  it  gladly,  and  yet  hesitates  only  when  we 
boldly  go  the  one  step  farther  and  say  that  in  1820  the  same  voice 

I0™*  the.?at<fe!'.ran^  in  the  ears  of  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  and 
the  Father  said:  "This  is  my  beloved  Son.  Hear  Him."  From  the 
messages  which  he  received  there  has  arisen  this  great  institution, 
this  mighty  work  which  has  spread  into  every  corner  of  the  world. 
I  he  word  has  gone  forth  that  over  and  beyond  the  Christian  be- 
lief m  God  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  the  Mormons  believe  that 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


51 


again  God  has  appeared  and  Jesus  Christ  has  spoken.  Therein  lies 
the  strength  of  our  faith. 

Let  us  continuously  bear  this  message  to  all  the  world,  in  hu- 
mility, in  meekness,  and  in  faith,  relying  upon  the  Lord,  that  he 
may  bless  us,  that  this  work  may  grow,  and  spread,  and  increase ; 
that  the  missionary  effort  which  is  being  put  forth  in  every  nook 
and  corner  of  this  earth  shall  be  prospered  abundantly,  even  as  I 
know  it  is  being  blessed  in  that  far-away  land  of  New  Zealand, 
among  that  splendid  race  of  men  and  women,  those  noble  people, 
the  Maoris,  who  are  working  daily  and  hourly  as  messengers  of 
this  restored  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  also  their  brothers  and 
sisters  from  Hawaii,  these  splendid  souls  whom  Brother  Smith  has 
referred  to,  who  not  only  faced  the  dangers  of  the  sea  but  also  of 
the  land,  that  they  might  be  here  with  us  to  worship  God  the 
Father  and  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son,  and  to  bear  testimony  of  the 
divine  mission  of  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith.  God  bless  them  all. 

May  God  bless  you,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  may  be  of  interest  to  all  of  you  to  know  that  we  have  decided  to 
organize  a  stake  of  Zion  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands. 

"Great  is  Jehovah,"  an  anthem,  was  sung  by  the  Relief  Society  Sing- 
ing Mothers,  Jessie  Williams,  soloist. 

Elder  James  Duckworth,  President  of  the  Blackfoot  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10 :00  a.  m.,  April  6. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  April  6,  at  10:00  o'clock 
The  Manti  choir,  under  the  direction  of  Ellis  E.  Johnson,  furnished 

the  music  for  this  session.  They  sang  as  an  opening  number,  the  hymn 
Lord,  we  come  before  thee  now."    President  Grant  announced  that 

the  arrangement  of  this  selection  was  by  Professor  A.  C.  Smyth  and 

that  it  was  sung  under  his  direction  at  the  dedication  of  the  Salt  Lake 

Temple. 

Elder  M.  Ezra  Sorenson,  President  of  the  Bannock  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

/'Who's  on  the  Lord's  Side,"  an  anthem,  was  sung  by  the  Manti 
Choir. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities 
and  Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers  who 
were  unanimously  sustained  as  follows  : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Reed  Smoot  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

George  Albert  Smith  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  F.  Richards  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L.  Richards  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley 
The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as 
Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


TRUSTEE-I N-TRUST 


Saints 


Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


53 


FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Rufus  K.  Hardy 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Stephen  L.  Richards 

David  O.  McKay  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Willard  Young  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Rudger  Clawson  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Charles  A.  Callis 

Franklin  S.  Harris 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

John  A.  Widtsoe 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  W.  Hart 

Orval  W.  Adams 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

David  A.  Smith,  President ;  Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor ;  B.  Cecil 
Gates,  Asst.  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Frank  W.  Asper 

Alexander  Schreiner  Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Kate  M.  Barker,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Edith  Hunter  Lambert,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Albert  E.  Bowen,  General  Superintendent 
George  Q.  Morris,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Frank  L.  West,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
and  the  following  as  members  of  the  General  Board  ■ 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham  W.  O.  Robinson 

Franklin  S.  Harris  Homer  C.  Warner 

John  H.  Taylor  W.  Wallace  McBride 

Lyman  L.  Dames  Richard  L.  Evans 

Joseph  F.  Smith  Burton  K.  Farnsworth 

John  D.  Giles  Floyd  G.  Eyre 

D.  E.  Hammond  W.  Creed  Haymond 

Axel  A.  Madsen  M.  Elmer  Christensen 

Strmgham  A.  Stevens  Philo  T.  Farnsworth 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  Harrison  R.  Merrill 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.  BOARD  REORGANIZED 

I  overlooked  announcing  that  some  weeks  ago  the  General  Super- 
mtendency  and  members  of  the  board  of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association  were  honorably  released  by  the  Presidency  of 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


55 


the  Church,  and  a  letter  was  written  to  the  board  requesting  that  they 
continue  to  function  until  after  this  conference,  when  the  new  super- 
intendency  and  board  would  be  sustained. 

In  retiring  they  do  so  with  the  love,  confidence,  blessing,  good  will, 
and  deep  gratitude  of  the  First  Presidency  and  members  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  All  of  you  who  feel  to  sustain  the  release  of 
these  men  and  to  give  to  them  our  love  and  blessing  in  their  retiring,  will 
'manifest  it  by  raising  the  right  hand. 

(The  vote  was  then  taken.) 

I  can  announce,  as  I  have  always  done  in  the  past,  that  the  voting 
has  been  unanimous. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father  while  I  stand 
before  you  this  morning.  I  realize  my  weaknesses,  but  I  want  to 
assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  never  cease  asking  my  Heaven- 
ly Father  for  his  kindness,  his  revelations  to  me,  that  I  may  fulfil 
every  requirement  made  at  my  hands,  affecting  his  great,  cause  here 
upon  this  earth. 

'GIFTS  FROM  GOD 

How  often  I  have  heard  the  expression,  particularly  during  the 
terrible  depression  we  are  passing  through,  that  "Life  is  not  worth 
living  or  striving  for."  Think  of  the  many  horrible  suicides  as  re- 
ported by  the  press  of  the  country.  How  many  live  a  lifetime  and 
never  think  that  life  is  a  precious  gift  from  our  Heavenly  Father. 
He  is  the  giver  of  all  that  makes  life  worth  living.  Are  we  as  Latter- 
day  Saints  appreciative  of  God's  mercies  and  protecting  care  from 
the  first  appearance  of  the  Father  and  Son  to  the  boy  Joseph 
Smith?  Some  are,  others  are  not.  Oh  Father,  assist  us  all  to  ap- 
preciate these  things. 

The  surest  way  to  please  our  Heavenly  Father  is  to  put  into 
action  the  commandments  of  the  Father,  and  make  them  a  part  of 
our  daily  life,  no  matter  where  we  are  or  with  whom  we  are  associ- 
ated. Never  be  afraid  to  let  the  world,  if  necessary,  know  that  you 
are  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  have  never,  to  my  knowledge,  lost  the  respect  of  a  single  person 
by  my  unqualified  statement  that  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

STRIVING  TOWARD  PERFECTION 

Perfection  in  this  life  or  world  is  impossible  for  mortal  man, 
but  we  must  employ  every  power  we  possess  to  reach  it  as  near  as 
possible. 

How  often  do  we  hear  people  rail  at  what  they  call  fate.    It  is 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


my  opinion  that  we  receive  just  what  we  make  the  proper  use  of. 
Let  me  quote  the  following: 

Fame,  place  and  title  finding  a  fitting  use 
And  rightfully  demand  all  reverence  due. 
But  envy  not  the  empty  lot  of  man 
Who,  winning  without  merit,  wins  in  vain. 
Greatness,  true  greatness,  mightiness  of  mind, 
And  greater  greatness,  grandeur  of  the  soul, 
Tell  but  one  tale — capacity,  not  place. 
Capacity,  whose  sire,  experience, 
Whose  ancestors,  innate  intelligence, 
Original,  inborn  nobility, 
As  oft  in  hut  as  mansion  have  their  home. 

The  more  we  strive  to  accomplish  a  thing, 'be  it  right  or  wrong, 
the  more  chance  we  have  of  success.  This  same  principle  applies 
to  every  action  in  life. 

THE  EMPLOYMENT  SITUATION 

I  have  wondered,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  what  is  going  to 
be  the  ultimate  outcome  of  the  dreadful  conditions  existing  in  the 
world  today,  covering  nearly  every  civilized  country,  drawing  from 
all  sources  the  resources  of  nations ;  and  I  am  quite  sure  that  with- 
out the  assistance  of  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  chaos  would  be  the 
end.  Suffering  in  the  world,— I  doubt  whether  there  ever  was  a 
time  that  it  was  so  widespread. 

I  noticed  in  a  government  report  the  other  day  that  there  are 
23,375,000  on  relief  in  our  country.  That  means  that  one  person 
out  of  every  five  in  our  country  is  on  relief  today.  This  is  an  in- 
crease of  77  per  cent,  over  a  year  ago.  Yet  business  is  at  the  same 
level  as  last  April. 

The  nation's  workers  in  normal  times  total  50,000,000.  Sub- 
tract our  present  army  of  6,000,000  federal  state  and  local  govern- 
ment employes,  and  the  10,000,000  workers  who  are  now  jobless,  and 
we  havq  34,000,000  working  in  private  industry  in  all  of  America— 
a  startling  statement,  and  yet  it  comes  from  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  and  cannot  be  questioned. 

FOREIGN  OBLIGATIONS 

I  thought  that  following  the  World  War  our  government  never 
would  be  placed  in  such  a  position  again,  I  mean  financially.  With 
between  eleven  and  twelve  billions  of  dollars  that  our  government 
advanced  to  the  foreign  countries  involved  in  that  war,  at  the  close 
of  the  war  it  was  owing  $26,187,000,000,  a  sum  unknown  to  the  world 
before. 

It  is  true  that  between  eleven  and  twelve  billions  of  that  amount 
was  advanced  to  the  countries  involved  in  that  war  in  which  we 
assisted.  I  was  a  member  of  the  committee  that  made  the  settle- 
ments with  all  the  foreign  countries  that  had  received  assistance 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


57 


from  America  during  that  great  catastrophe.  The  settlements  were 
made  upon  a  basis  of  their  ability  to  pay  :  Italy,  17  per  cent  of  what 
she  owed  us,  and  we  gave  her  sixty-two  years,  as  we  gave  all  of  the 
other  countries,  in  which  to  pay  back  their  obligations  to  our  coun- 
try. Belgium  40  per  cent,  England  82]/2  per  cent,— and  I  might 
go  along  the  list,  but  it  was  all  the  way  from  17  per  cent  to  S2]/^  per 
cent,  according  to  the  showing  that  each  made  to  the  committee,  and 
the  committee  used  its  best  judgment  in  arranging  the  settlements. 

Of  course  England  and  France  were  the  ones  that  owed  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  the  most, — and  the  settlement  was 
made  upon  a  basis  less  than  par — France,  51  per  cent,  England  82  ^ 
per  cent ;  and  then,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  they  were  given  sixty- 
two  years  to  meet  these  obligations,  and  yet  every  one  of  those  coun- 
tries has  failed  to  carry  out  the  contract! 

OUR  FINANCIAL  BURDEN 

What  other  nation  in  the  world  would  have  been  so  liberal? 
None,  I  assure  you.  The  financial  burden  fell  upon  us,  and  it  reached 
a  deficit  of  $26,000,000,000,  notwithstanding  the  heavy  taxes  imposed 
during  the  war  period.  I  was  chairman  of  the  Finance  Committee 
and  senior  member  of  the  Appropriations  Committee, — the  one  to 
raise  the  money,  the  other  to  expend  it ; — and  that  obligation  was  re- 
duced to  $16,000,000,000,  at  the  time  the  present  depression  began. 

I  am  not  finding  any  fault  or  criticising  what  has  been  done,  but 
T  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  our  obligations 
are  such  now  that  I,  of  course,  never  will  live  long  enough  to  see  them 
paid,  nor  will  a  soul  in  this  congregation.  They  aimount  approxi- 
mately to  $35,000,000,000 ! 

I  know  some  people  speak  flippantly  of  a  billion  dollars.  Do  you 
know  what  $35,000,000,000  means  ?  I  have  been  asked  so  many 
times,  and  once  in  public  life  I  made  the  statement — at  that  time  our 
indebtedness  had  reached  $26,000,000,000— that  if  there  were  an 
unknown  power  who  had  an  unknown  receptacle,  and  that  unknown 
power  decided  that  it  would,  the  very  minute  the  Savior  was  born, 
place  $26.00  in  that  unknown  receptacle,  and  had  continued  to  place 
in  it  $26.00  every  minute  from  the  minute  the  Savior  was'  born  until 
the  time  the  settlement  was  made  with  the  United  States,  we  would 
have  about  $26,000,000,000. 

LIVE  WITHIN  YOUR  MEANS 

I  do  hope  and  trust  that  we  Latter-day  Saints  will  live  up  to 
the  instructions  that  we  have  heard  so  often  from  this, stand,  by 
every  President  of  this  Church ;  that  is,  to  live  within  our  means 
and  keep  out  of  debt.  It  is  a  hard  thing  to  do,  particularly  if  we  live 
on  the  plane  that  has  been  set  so  high,  I  was  going  to  say,  in  modern 
days ;  but  to  have  peace  of  mind,  happiness  within  the  home,  con- 
fidence among  yourselves,  keep  out  of  debt;  live  within  your  means; 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  I  know  of  no  people  anywhere  that  can  do  it  so  well  as  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  if  they  will. 

GREAT  FAITH  DEMONSTRATED 

I  have  had  a  great  deal  of  pleasure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
visiting  the  different  stakes  of  Zion,  during  the  last  two  years.  I 
doubt  whether  there  ever  has  been  a  time  when  there  has  been  more 
faith  demonstrated  by  the  people  of  the  Church  than  today,  unless,  per- 
chance, it  was  during  the  early  history  of  the  Church,  when  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  those  noble  men  associated  with  him 
were  called  upon  to  sacrifice  more  than  any  other  people  since  the 
days  of  the  Master. 

My  prayer  always  is,  it  always  shall  be  if  God  grants  me  the 
desire  of  my  heart,  that  his  people,  members  of  his  Church,  shall  be 
honorable,  honest  and  upright)  not  only  with  men  but  with  God 
himself.  The  plan  of  the  Father  is  such  that  his  work  can  be  taken 
care  of.  There  is  no  such  organization  in  all  the  world.  It  was  not 
many  years  ago  when  one  of  the  great  men  of  this  country  made  the 
statement  that  the  two  greatest  organizations  in 'the  world  were  the 
Mormon  Church  and  the  German  army.  I  have  thought  so  many 
times, — and  did  the  very  first  time  I  heard  it, — one  for  the  salvation 
of  the  children  of  God,  the  other  for  the  destruction  of  life  and  liberty. 
How  proud  we  should  be  that  we  are  members  of  God's  Church. 

SUSTAIN  THE  PRESIDENCY 

Brethren  and  sisters,  may  I  ask  of  you  that  you  support  the 
Presidency  of  this  Church.  I  testify  to  you  that  they  are  men  of  God. 
I  know  that  they  are  true  to  the  Church,  that  they  would  sacrifice, 
if  necessary,  their  very  lives  for  its  existence.  Other  men  have  done 
this,  and  there  never  will  be  a  time  when  that  will  not  be  the  case. 
God  grant  that  it  may  never  become  'necessary. 

I  know  that  I  echo  your  thoughts  and  your  feelings  and  your 
prayers  when  I  say  to  this  audience,  and  all  who  may  be  listening  in, 
let  us  uphold  the  hands  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  pray  for 
them  and  sustain  them  and  be  with  them ;  and  also  men  holding 
responsible  positions  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  in  the  wards,  in  the 
branches  and  in  the  mission  field. 

May  God's  blessings  ever  attend  his  work  and  may  it  increase 
in  power  for  good  in  the  world.  With  these  expressions,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  I  pray  that  God's  blessings  may  ever  be  yours,  and 
I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  think  the  music  we  have  heard  by  our  Hawaiian  brethren 
and  sisters  has  been  very  beautiful.  It  came  from  the  heart,  and 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


59 


indicates  how  these  people  respond  to  the  truth  as  expressed  in 
our  sacred  hymns.  You  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
these  people  of  the  Hawaiian  Islands  are  of  the  blood  of  Israel. 
These  islands  were  discovered  in  1778  by  Captain  James  Cook, 
who  has  left  a  remarkable  description  of  them  in  his  Journal 
which  has  been  printed  in  seven  volumes.  Although  the  old 
British  sea-captain,  one  of  the  greatest  explorers  of  all  history, 
was  killed  by  the  natives  of  the  islands,  he  ascribes  to  them, 
nevertheless,  fine  qualities  and  noble  beliefs.  He  writes  on  one 
occasion : 

I  have  never  met  with  a  behaviour  so  free  from  reserve  and  sus- 
picion in  my  intercourse  with  any  tribes  of  s-avages,  as  we  experienced  in 
the  people  of  this  island.  It  was-  very  common  for  them  to  send  up  into 
the  ship  several  articles  they  brought  off  for  barter;  afterward  they  would 
come  ini  themselves,  and  make  their  bargains  on  the  quarter-deck. 

In  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth  century,  Christian  mission- 
aries went  among  the  Hawaiians,  and  it  was  not  long  before  the 
old  pagan  religions  were  overthrown,  and  the  people  readily  em- 
braced Christianity.  Their  ancient  folk-lore  and  traditions  sug- 
gest deep  and  fundamental  beliefs  of  the  Israelites  of  ages  ago. 
One  tradition  tells  of  a  young  chief  who  was  taken  to  the  land 
of  his  fathers,  but  one  day  coming  back  from  the  clouds,  he 
warned  his  people  to  wage  war  no  longer,  but  to  live  in  peace 
and  to  cleanse  their  thoughts  and  bodies  by  going  into  the  river. 
Then  they  should  know  if  they  are  clean.  After  giving  the  mes- 
sage, the  young  chief  floated  off  "to  the  land  of  departed  souls." 

It  does  our  hearts  good  to  see  you,  our  good  brothers  and 
sisters  from  far-off  Hawaii,  and  I  believe  that  you  will  do  a  great 
work  among  your  native  people  in  having  them  see  the  restored 
Gospel  of  our  Savior. 

The  Prophet  Jeremiah  wrote  on  one  occasion : 

Stand  ye  in  the  ways,  and  see,  and  ask  for  the  old  paths,  where  is 
the  good  way,  and  walk  therein,  and  ye  shall  find  rest  for  your  souls. 

We  are  all  agreed,  from  what  we  have  heard  in  the  confer- 
ence, that  what  we  need  today  are  simpler  manners  and  purer 
ways  of  living.  The  only  salvation  for  this  nation  is  the  putting 
away  of  idolatry,  and  the  bringing  about  of  the  revival  of  faith 
in  the  true  and  living  God. 

It  is  written  in  the  19th  Chapter  of  I  Kings : 

And,  behold,  the  Lord  passed  by,  and  a  great  and  strong  wind  rent 
the  mountains,  and  brake  in  pieces  the  rocks  before  the  Lord;  but  the 
Lord  was  not  in  the  wind:  and  after  the  wind  an  earthquake;  but  the  Lord 
was  not  in  the  earthquake: 

And  after  the  earthquake  a  fire;  but  the  Lord  was  not  in  the  fire: 
and  after  the  fire  a  still  small  voice. 

We  are  losing,  in  the  world,  the  still  small  voice  that  every 
child  of  God  is  naturally  blessed  with.  Today  in  the  world's 
chaotic  condition  we  are  confronted  with  many  problems,  the 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


greatest  of  which  is  how  to  teach  the  youth.  The  crying  need  of 
the  hour  is  that  youth  be  taught  that  life  has  a  meaning,  and  a 
meaning  for  good.  Life  is  nothing  without  the  supreme  faith  in 
goodness  and  truth,  inspired  with  a  faith  in  Almighty  God. 

The  three  institutions  of  civilization  that  are  responsible  for 
the  education  of  the  youth  are  the  home,  the  school  and  the 
Church.  The  home  must  always  be  the  main  source  of  edu- 
cation for  the  youth.  Count  Tolstoi,  the  Russian  writer,  once 
wrote,  "Where  love  is,  God  is  also."  In  every  home,  love  must 
abound,  and  the  obtaining  of  the  Spirit  of  God  must  be  the  first 
aim  of  parents  and  children.  We  sneer  at  times  gone  by.  We 
speak  unkindly  of  the  good  old  Puritans  and  Quakers  who  came 
to  America  centuries  ago  to  find  religious  freedom.  There  may 
have  beenrnuch  iron  in  the  Puritan  temper,  but  their  homes  had 
a  foundation,  and  the  virile  virtues  were  in  those  homes.  As 
for  the  schools,  colleges,  and  universities  of  our  land,  I  some- 
times think  that  too  much  attention  is  given  to  facts  and  formu- 
las at  the  expense  of  the  greater  fundamentals  of  truth.  It  was 
Henry  Van  Dyke  who  once  said  that  we  often  learn  facts,  but 
miss  the  truth.  After  all,  the  fundamental  of  all  knowledge  is 
expressed  in  the  Book  of  Moses,  of  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  The 
prophet  of  old  is  led  to  say: 

And  as  one  earth  shall  pass  away,  and  the  heavens  thereof,  even  so 
shall  another  come;  and  there  is  no  end  to  my  works,  neither  to  my 
words. 

For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man. 

The  Prophet  Jeremiah  must  have  referred  to  some  very  fun- 
damental truths  of  life  when  he  wrote :  "Stand  ye  in  the  ways, 
and  see,  and  ask  for  the  old  paths."  He  may  have  been  speaking 
to  the  youth  of  his  day  and  calling  their  attention  to  the  moral 
and  spiritual  values  that  are  to  be  first  sought  after  in  life.  One 
thing  is  certain,  he  would  emphasize  the  teachings  of  the  divine 
leader  Moses  as  found  in  the  immortal  Ten  Commandments, 
which  truths  are  as  important  today  as  they  have  ever  been  in 
human  history.  Think  of  the  divine  injunction :  "Thou  shalt  have 
no  other  Gods  before  me."  Are  we  as  teachers  substituting  for 
the  Father  of  us  all,  and  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  teachings  that 
are  not  leading  us  to  God?  I  ask  this  question  in  all  candor.  Is 
the  world  coming  to  worship  the  god  of  ambition,  the  god  of  war, 
the  god  of  gold?  Children  and  youth  today,  as  they  have  always 
been,  are  precious  in  the  sight  of  God.  Can  they  be  led  to  any- 
thing of  richer  spiritual  value  than  the  proper  observance  of  the 
Sabbath  day,  to  keep  it  holy  and  sacred?  The  laws  of  ancient 
Israel  taught  that  it  is  wrong  to  steal,  wrong  to  bear  false  wit- 
ness against  our  neighbor.  Are  not  these  truths  the  deep  and 
underlying  principles  of  living?  They  are.  The  youth  of  today 
needs  them  as  much  as  any  other  time  in  all  history.  Such  truths 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  61 

He  at  the  root  of  all  good  government — both  religiously  and  polit- 
ically. 

Then  there  are  the  ethical  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord, 
as  embodied  in  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  The  sayings  of  the 
Master  rise  to  the  greatest  heights  of  all  teachings : 

And  seeing  the  multitudes,  he  went  up  into  a  mountain;  and  when  he 
was  set,  his  disciples  came  unto  him: 

And  he  opened  his  mouth,  and  taught  them,  saying, 

Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit:  for  their's  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

Blessed  are  they  that  mourn:  for  they  shall  be  comforted. 

Blessed  are  the  meek:  for  they  shall  inherit  the  earth. 

Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger  and  thirst  after  righteousness:  for 
they  shall  be  filled. 

Blessed  are  the  merciful:  for  they  shall  obtain  mercy. 

Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart:  for  they  shall  see  God. 

Blessed  are  the  peacemakers:  for  they  shall  be  called  the  children  of 

God. 

.  Blessed  are  they  which  are  persecuted  for  righteousness'  sake:  for 
their's  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

Blessed  are  ye,  when  men  shall  revile  you,  and  persecute  you,  and 
.shall  &ay  all  manner  of  evil  against  you  falsely,  for  my  sake. 

Rejoice,  and  be  exceeding  glad:  for  great  is  your  reward  in  heaven: 
tor  so  persecuted  they  the  prophets  which  were  before  you. 

The  greatest  sermon  ever  given  is  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount, 
and  among  the  many  things  Jesus  tells  us  is  that  we  are  to  be  pure 
in  heart,  then  shall  we  see  God;  and  not  only  see  God,  but  we 
shall  live  and  understand  life  in  its  beauty  and  in  its  true  mean- 
ing. 

What  the  world  needs  is  the  purifying  thought  that  we  lay 
deeper  foundations  for  learning  than  we  have  ever  done  before. 
I  remember  at  Harvard  College  in  one  of  the  classes  in  philoso- 
phy the  old  philosopher,  William  James,  said  one  morning: 

Neither  laurels  nor  monuments,  neither  battleships  nor  public  li- 
braries, nor  great  newspapers  nor  universities  can  save  us  from  degenera- 
tion if  the  inner  mystery  be  lost. 

Are  we  losing  the  inner  mystery,  the  inner  mystery  that  tells 
the  boy  and  girl  that  there  are  things  belonging  to  the  creations 
of  God  that  they  can  only  understand  by  faith  in  him?  Paul 
gave  us  this  admonition  in  his  words  when  he  said  to  the  Phil- 
ippians : 

Whatsoever  _  things-  are  true,  whatsoever  things  are  honest,  whatso- 
ever things  are  just,  whatsoever  things  are  pure,  whatsoever  things  are 
lovely  .  .  .  think  on  these  things. 

In  that  lovely  story  of  Tom  Brown's  school  days,  which  pos- 
sibly you  have  read,  you  remember  what  old  Squire  Brown  said 
when  his  son  went  up  to  college  at  Rugby: 

I  do  not  care  a  straw  for  Greek  particles,  or  the  diagamma.  If  he 
will  only  turn  out  a  brave,  helpful,  truth-telling  Englishman,  and  a  Chris- 
tian, that's  all  I  want. 

On  the  old  library  at  Columbia  University  are  these  words 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


chiselled  above  the  main  entrance:  "Maintained  and  cherished 
from  generation  to  generation  for  the  advancement  of  the  public 
good,  and  the  glory  of  Almighty  God." 

These  words  reminded  me  that  years  ago  there  were  in  the 
University  of  Utah  and  in  the  Brigham  Young  University  some 
great  educators,  just  as  there  are  noble  educators  today  in  the 
same  institutions,  and  the  same  may  be  said  of  the  Agricultural 
College  at  Logan.  I  come  to  this  question  of  teaching  because 
we  have  had  great  men  in  this  state  as  educators  who  understood 
the  youth,  and  who  taught  that  knowledge  should  be  conducive  to 
a  knowledge  of  God  and  an  understanding  of  greater  faith  in  him 
and  in  life.  John  R.  Park,  who  was,  in  a  sense,  the  father  of  the 
University  of  Utah  and  Karl  G.  Maeser  of  the  Brigham  Young 
University  directed  the  lives  of  the  youth  for  years,  and  no 
greater  teachers  ever  lived.  It  was  Dr.  Maeser  who  once  said: 
"You  can  teach  the  multiplication  table  with  the  Spirit  of  God." 
There  was  William  M.  Stewart  who  understood  the  little  child, 
and  knew  above  all  things  his  nature,  and  the  beauty  of  his 
character  and  soul.  There  was  George  H.  Brimhall,  an  ideal 
teacher.  I  could  name  many  other  men  who  knew  the  dreams  of 
youth  and  who  understood  them. 

There  have  been  great  educators  in  all  America.  I  think  no 
greater  educator  ever  lived  than  William  James  of  Harvard,  who 
used  to  say  to  us  that  after  all  knowledge  is  but  opening  up  the 
great  mystery  of  life,  that  we  may  know  that  something  still 
greater  lies  beyond. 

There  is  a  story  told  that  a  small  company  of  boys  had  in- 
fringed the  rules  of  the  University  when  Dr.  John  R.  Park  was 
president.  Realizing  their  misdemeanor  they  went  to  the  office 
of  the  president  and  told  him  all  about  it.  The  face  of  the  old 
gentleman  and  the  scholar  filled  with  an  expression  of  deep 
pleasure  at  their  honesty.  The  smile  went  from  his  mouth  and 
his  eyes  filled  with  tears  as  he  thanked  the  boys  for  their  cour- 
tesy in  coming  to  him.  So  all  great  teachers— and  we  are  all 
teachers — every  brother  and  sister  in  this  congregation  is  a 
teacher — direct  their  students  first  to  religious  and  moral  princi- 
ples, secondly  to  gentlemanly  conduct,  and  the  intellectual  ability. 
The  chief  end  of  all  teaching  is  to  make  the  youth  love  the  truth 
for  truth's  sake,  and  the  principle  of  right  because  it  is  right. 

"We  the  truthful,"  was  a  noble  saying  of  the  Greek  aristoc- 
racy, which  remains  to  this  day.  As  teachers  we  must  go  forth 
to  teach.  The  Priesthood  of  God  is  a  great  band  of  teachers. 
You  missionaries  are  teachers.  We  must  bring  the  students  to 
the  ideal  that  there  is  such  a  thing  as  moral  health  "as  beautiful 
and  desirable  as  health  of  body;  and  that  a  sign  of  it  is  perfect 
truthfulness,  sincerity,  kindness,  helpfulness,  self-control,  courage, 
and  the  fulfilment  of  duty."  Then  life's  meaning  will  be  clear 
and  their  days  will  be  spent  in  joy  and  in  peace. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


63 


The  good  old  days  remain  with  us,  for  what  was  right  once 
always  remains  right;  what  was  the  truth  once  always  remains 
truth.  We  learn  about  Abraham  Lincoln,  of  the  battles  that  were 
fought  during  the  Civil  War,  the  things  that  were  done  in  a 
political  and  social  way ;  but  let  us  direct  our  boys  and  girls  in 
our  history  courses — in  all  of  our  work — to  the  great  fundamental 
ideal  of  life  and  the  men  who  exemplify  it  in  our  time. 

Abraham  Lincoln  issued  a  Thanksgiving  Day  proclamation, 
and  in  this  he  stressed  his  sublime  faith  in  God.  I  read  a  part  of 
this  proclamation : 

Proclamation  of  a  National  Fast-Day,  August  12,  1861 
ABRAHAM  LINCOLN 

.  .  .  Whereas  it  is  fit  and  becoming  in  all  people  at  all  times,  to  ac- 
knowledge and  revere  the  supreme  government  of  God;  to  bow  in  humble 
submission  to  his  chastisements,  to  confess  and  deplore  their  sins  and 
transgressions,  in  the  full  conviction  that  the  fear  of  the  Lord  is  the  be- 
ginning of  wisdom;  and  to  pray  with  all  fervency  and  contrition  for 
the  pardon  of  their  past  offenses,  and  for  a  blessing  upon  their  present  and 
prospective  action: 

And  whereas  when  our  own  beloved  country,  once,  by  the  blessing  of 
God,  united,  prosperous,  and  happy,  is  now  afflicted  with  faction  and  civil 
war,  it  is  peculiarly  fit  for  us  to  recognize  the  hand  of  God  in  this  terrible 
visitation,  and  in  sorrowful  remembrance  of  our  own  faulits  and  crimes  as-  a 
nation  and  as  individuals,  to  humble  ourselves  before  him  and  to  pray  for 
his  mercy — to  pray  that  we  be  spared  further  punishment,  though  most 
justly  deserved;  that  our  arms  may  be  blessed  and  made  effectual  for  the 
reestablishment  of  law,  order,  and  peace  throughout  the  wide  extent  of  our 
country;  and  that  the  inestimable  boon  of  civil  and  religious  liberty,  earned 
under  his  guidance  and  blessing  by  the  labors  and  blessings  of  our  fathers 
may  be  restored  in  all  its  original  excellence, 

I  do  earnestly  recommend  to  all  people,  and  especially  to  all  ministers 
and  teachers  of  religion,  and  all  heads  of  families,  to  observe  and  keep  that 
day  .  _  .  .  in  all  humility  and  with  all  religious  solemnity,  to  the  end  that 
the  united  prayer  of  the  nation  may  ascend  to  the  Throne  of  Grace,  and 
bring  down  plentiful  blessings  upon  our  country. 

Signed:     ABRAHAM  LINCOLN. 

America  needs  today  a  youth  that  is  disciplined,  who  has 
self-respect  and  powers  for  productive  service.  The  world  needs 
a  youth  possessed  of  the  highest  standards  of  intellectual  morali- 
ty. We  need  teachers  who  are  learned,  and  in  whom  there  is  a 
balance  of  faculties  and  a  deep  sympathy:  men  and  women  full 
of  power  and  warm  and  true  of  heart,  men  of  deep  devotion  and 
self-forgetfulness.  Jesus  emphasized  the  blessed  truth  that  the 
pure  in  heart  should  see  God.  They  shall  comprehend  all  truth. 
The  Ten  Commandments,  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  with  the 
underlying  faith  in  his  gift  of  salvation,  are  the  greatest  precepts 
for  the  youth  of  today  to  learn.  And  now  for  us  all,  let  us  be 
comforted  in  the  beautiful  words  from  Leviticus: 

If  ye  walk  in  my  statutes,  and  keep  my  commandments,  and  do  them- 
lhen  will  I  give  you  rain  in  due  season,  and  the  land  shall  yield  her 
increase,  and  the  trees  of  the  field  shall  yield  their  fruit 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


And  your  threshing  shall  reach  unto  the  vintage,  and  the  vintage 
shall  reach  unto  the  sowing  time:  and  ye  shall  eat  your  bread  to  the  full, 
and  dwell  in  your  land  safely. 

And  I  will  give  peace  in  the  land,  and  ye  shall  lie  down,  and  none 
shall  make  you  afraid:  and  I  will  rid  evil  beasts  out  of  the  land,  neither  shall 
the  sword  go  through  your  land. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  understand  these  lovely  and  divine 
truths.  May  he  give  us  the, light  and  power  to  help  the  youth  to 
see  them,  this  glorious  youth,  whose  problems  are  many  and  whose 
questions  are  deep.  May  the  spirit  of  the  love  of  Christ  abound 
in  our  hearts  for  all  mankind,  I  ask  in  his  name.  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Lord,  What  is  Man  ?"  was  sung  by  the  Manti  Choir, 
duet  by  V era  Keller  and  Thera  Lou  Olson. 

ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  been  thrilled  with  the  proceed- 
ings of  this  conference.  The  Lord  bless  President  Grant  and  those 
brethren  who  have  already  spoken,  for  the  good  things  they  have  said 
to  us ;  and  the  Lord  bless  those  who  will  follow  for  the  good  things 
that  they  will  speak  to  us,  because  we  know  if  they  do  speak  it  will 
be  the  truth. 

The  Lord  bless  the  Manti  choir  for  the  very  fine  singing  they 
have  contributed  to  this  general  conference.  It  is  praiseworthy  and 
most  fitting. 

The  Lord  bless  the  small  group  of  Hawaiians  who  have  come 
a  long  distance  to  meet  with  us,  who  are  listening  attentively  to  what 
is  being  said.   The  Lord  bless  them  also  for  their  sweet  singing. 

The  Lord  bless  the  Singing  Mothers  who  have  sung  so  beauti- 
fully for  us.  At  times  they  might  easily  be  mistaken  for  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir.  The  Lord  bless  them  because  they  are  not  only  good 
singers  but  they  are  "singing  mothers."  The  Lord  bless  other  moth- 
ers, if  only  they  are  mothers.  And  may  the  Lord  bless!  the  "singing 
fathers,"  if  they  can  be  found.  I  am  sure  there  are  many  of  them 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  MOTHERHOOD  AND  FATHERHOOD 

The  women  of  our  faith  are  doing  a  wonderful  work  in  the  Relief 
Society  and  in  the  Young  Ladies'  organization.  It  is  marvelous, 
the  things  that  they  are  accomplishing,  but  let  me  tell  you  the  great- 
est achievement,  one  of  the  greatest,  at  least,  if  not  the  greatest 
achievement  that  ever  comes  to  a  woman  in  this  life  is  to  become  a 
mother  in  Israel.  That-  is  a  noble,  a  most  sacred  and  great  achieve- 
ment. And  no  greater  work  ever  comes  to  a  father  than  to  become 
a  father  in  Israel.  It  is  said  that  one  mother  rather  disparaged  her 
husband  before  their  son  Willie.   Willie  said  to  his  mother.  "Mother, 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


65 


if  you  will  give  me  ten  cents  I  will  be  good,"  and  the  mother  said : 
"Now,  Willie,  why  can't  you  be  like  your  father.  He  isn't  good  for 
ten  cents.  He  is  good  for  nothing."  As  to  the  fathers,  well,  they 
had  better  hang  around,  because  if  there  were  no  fathers  there 
wouldn't  be  any  mothers,  and  if  there  were  no  mothers  there 
wouldn't  be  any  fathers.    The  Lord  in  heaven  arranged  it  so. 

THE  MYSTERY  AND  PURPOSE  OF  LIFE 

We  have  heard  some  significant  references  at  this  conference 
to  the  mystery  of  life,  and  certainly  there  is  a  mystery  and  a  pur- 
pose in  life.  But  let  me  tell  you,  the  great  scientists  of  the  world, 
the  great  philosophers  of  the  world  and  the  greatest  teachers  of  the 
world  have  not  as  yet  discovered  the  mystery  of  life.  They  are  reach- 
ing out  for  it  but  they  haven't  yet  found  it. 

Now,  it  might  be  thought  that  I  am  a  little  presumptuous  if  I 
should  say  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  actually  discovered  the  very 
purpose  of  life  but  I  do  say  it  and  my  assertion  is  true.  "Well,"  says 
one,  "how  imay  that  have  been  possible?  What  is  the  purpose  of 
life?"  Let  me  point  it  out  to  you  briefly,  but  before  I  do  so  I  would 
like  to  read  to  you  a  few  words  by  a  writer  who  is  reputed  to  be 
something  of  a  philosopher.  His  name  is  Anatole  France  and  this 
excerpt  is  taken  from  a  work  entitled  :  "Conversations  with  Anatole 
France,"  a  French  writer. 

OPINIONS  OF  A  FRENCH  WRITER 

"And  what  of  the  joys  of  the  intellect?"  said  I.  "Ah,  the  intellect  again,  always 
the  intellect.  But  it  is  just  that — the  intellect,  the  mind — that  gives  us  the  measure 
of  the  nullity  of  others,  and  of  ourselves.  What  joy  have  you  in  mind?  The 
comf  orting  thought  that  we  know  not  whence  we  come  nor  whither  we  are  going, 
that  life,  which  is  a  state  of 'slavery,  an  insoluble  enigma,  is  also  the  most  pitiable, 
the  most  unstable  and  the  most  transient  of  all  the  things  whereof  we  have  cog- 
nizance? The  bewildering  thought  that  we  inhabit  aitiny  drop  in  the  great  stream 
of  the  Milky  Way  which  is  certainly  but  an  insignificant  rivulet  of  the  Cosmos, 
that  we  shall  disappear  in  a  moment  and  the  whole  human  race  with  us,  to  be  fol- 
lowed by  the  other  planetary  and  stellar  processions  which,  if  they  linger  a  little 
longer,  will  inevitably  perish  in  their  turn  ?" 

WHEN  THE  ALMIGHTY  SPEAKS 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  you  cannot  get  one  word  of  comfort 
from  these  words.  It  is  a  most  discouraging  and  gloomy  picture  of 
life.  But  then  on  the  other  hand  we  know  something  of  the  purpose 
of  life ;  especially  is  it  so  when  the  Almighty  Father  speaks  through 
the  scriptures  and  by  revelation  and  gives  us  the  word.  The  great 
men  of  the  earth,  if  only  they  would  turn  to  the  scriptures  and  open 
their  hearts  and  exercise  faith  in  a  spirit  of  humility  and  ask  the 
Lord  about  the  purpose  of  life,  he  would  tell  them,  as  he  has  told  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

We  have  learned  that  in  the  life  of  man  there  are  three  estates, 
and  that  the  first  was  our  preexistent  estate  which  was  wholly  spirit- 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ual ;  that  the  second  estate  is  the  spiritual  and  temporal,  or  mortal, 
combined;  and  that'the  third  estate  is  the  glorification  of  the  spirit- 
ual and  the  temporal  through  the  resurrection.  There  you  have  it 
briefly.  A  careful  inquiry  into  these  three  estates  will  discover  the 
secret  of  life  which  has  baffled  humanity  during  long  centuries  of  the 
past. 

THE  FIRST  ESTATE 

In  the  preexistent  estate  we  lived  and  learned  much,  no  doubt, 
and  were  therefore  endowed  with  great  intelligence,  but  it  appears 
there  was  something  lacking  and  that  something  was  a  mortal  body. 
The  body  could  be  secured  only  by  those  who  passed  into  the  second 
estate,  which  is  quite  clearly  described  in  general  terms  in  the 
scriptures  and  revelations  of  God  to  men.  In  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price  these  significant  words  will  be  found:  ,  (Book' of  Abraham,  Chap- 
ter 3,  verses  24  to  26  inclusive.) 

And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said  unto  those 
who  were  with  him:  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there,  and  we  will 
take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon  these  may  dwell ; 

And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things  whatsoever 
the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them; 

And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added  upon ;  and  they  who  keep 
not  their  first  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the  same  kingdom  with  these  who  keep 
their  first  estate ;  and  they  who  keep  their  second  estate  shall  have  glory  added 
upon  their  heads  for  ever  and  ever. 

IN  THE  SECOND  ESTATE  A  LIVING  SOUL 

That  man  might  properly  be  introduced  into  this  second  estate 
of  his  wonderful  experience  "God  said,  Let  us  make  man  in  our 
image,  after  our  likeness ;  and'  let  them  have  dominion  over  the  fish 
of  the  sea,  and  over  the  fowl  of  the  air,  and  over  the  cattle,  and  over 
al\,  e??h'  and  over  every  creeping  thing  that  creepeth  upon  the 
earth.     (Genesis  Chapter  1,  Verse  26.) 

In  the  first  estate  man  was  a  living  spirit;  in  the  second  estate 
he  became  a  living  soul  for  there  was  added  to  his  spirit  a  mortal 
body.  By  the  combination  of  spirit  and  body,  or  in  other  words 
-spirit  and  element,  man  may  attain  to  a  fulness  of  joy  The  exact 
language  of  the  revelation  is  found  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
Section  93,  verses  33,  34  and  35,  as  follows : 

For  man  is  spirit  The  elements  are  eternal,  and  spirit  and  element  insenarablv 
connected,  receive  a  fulness  of  joy;  cicmcm,  inseparaDly 

And  when  separated,  man  cannot  receive  a  fulness  of  joy. 
The  elements  are  the  tabernacle  of  God ;  yea  man  is  tfip  t,hPrm,i0  „t  rv,  i 
temples;  and  whatsoever  temple  is  defiled,  <g t^t^^t^**™ 

It  is  evident  that  the  second  estate  is  a  time  for  the  testing  of 
the  souls  of  men  wherein  those  who  live  righteous  lives,  obeying 
the  commandments  of  God,  will  receive  a  fulness  of  joy  that  will 
come  to  them  in  the  resurrection  from  the  grave. 


ELDER  RVDGER   CLAW  SON 


67 


THOSE  WHO  KEPT  NOT  THEIR  FIRST  ESTATE 

"And  they  who  keep  not  their  first  estate  shall  not  have  glory 
in  the  same  kingdom  with  those  who  keep  their  first  estate"  or  shall 
not  have  mortal  bodies. 

There  was, a  large  number  of  that  class  of  spirits  who  followed 
Lucifer  in  the  great  war  of  rebellion  in  heaven  described  in  the 
scriptures,  Book  of  Revelation,  Chapter  12,  verses  7  to  9  inclusive : 

And  there  was  war  in  heaven;  Michael  and  his  angels  fought  against  the 
dragon;  and  the  dragon  fought  and  his  angels, 

And  prevailed  not ;  neither  was  their  place  found  any  more  in  heaven. 

And  the  great  dragon  was  cast  out,  that  old  serpent,  called  the  devil,  and 
Satan,  which  deceiveth  the  whole  world :  he  was  cast  out  into  the  earth,  and  his 
angels  were  cast  out  with  him. 

These  wicked  rebellious  spirits  were  cast  out  of  heaven  into  the 
earth  and  became  the  devil  and  his  angels.  Their  punishment,  we 
learn  from  the  writings  of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  was  that  they 
were  denied  the  privilege  of  having  bodies,  or  in  other  words,  they 
failed  to  keep  their  first  estate  and  missed  the  great  and  important 
blessing  of  being  added  upon.  Their  punishment  is  great ;  their  dis- 
appointment must  have  been  keen. 

MORTALITY  A  BLESSED  PRIVILEGE 

In  what  I  have  already  said  we  begin  to  see  the  purpose  of  life. 
Were  it  not  for  mortality  on  the  earth  in  this  second  estate  we  would 
have  continued  in  spirit  form  as  we  were  in  our  first  estate.  But 
now,  we  are  told  in  the  Book  of  Genesis,  that  man  is  in  the  image  of 
God,  is  made  like  him  with  this  difference,  that  God  is  a  glorified  be- 
ing, a  glorified  man.  I  know  there  are  some  people  in  the  world  at 
large  who  might  regard  this  statement  as  blasphemy,  but  it  is  the 
truth,  nevertheless,  and  is  published  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Book 
of  Moses,  Chapter  6,  Verse  57 : 

Wherefore  teach  it  unto  your  children,  that  all  men,  everywhere.^  must  repent, 
or  they  can  in  nowise  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God,  for  no  unclean  thing  can  dwell 
there,  or  dwell  in  his  presence ;  for,  in  the  language  of  Adam,  Man  of  Holiness 
is  his  name,  and  the  name  of  his  Only  Begotten  is  the  Son  of  Man,  even  Jesus 
Christ,  a  righteous  Judge,  who  shall  come  in  the  meridian  of  time. 

By  reason  of  these  estates  the  human  family  is  passing  through, 
they  may  attain  by  righteousness,  to  exaltation  and  glory  in  the  king- 
dom of  God. 

THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  MARRIAGE 

In  connection  with  the  experience  gained  upon  the  earth  in  mor- 
tality comes  the  glorious  principle  of  marriage,  which  is  of  the  ut- 
most importance  to  our  present  and  future  welfare.  It  is  highly 
essential  that  every  young  man  and  every  young  woman  in  the 
Church  should  look  carefully  into  this  matter  with  a  prayerful  spirit 
before  taking  upon  himself  or  upon  herself  the  responsibility  of  mar- 
riage. 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


TWO  KINDS  OF  MARRIAGE 


There  are  two  kinds  of  marriage,  the  civil  marriage  and  the 
Temple  marriage.  Is  the  civil  marriage  a  good  marriage  ?  Yes,  it  is 
a  good  marriage,  a  legal  marriage.  It  is  good  as  far  as  it  goes.  It 
is  a  bond  however  that  has  no  force  or  virtue  after  death. 

The  Temple  marriage  is  different.  When  a  couple  is  united 
by  the  ordinance  of  God's  house  they  are  married  for  time  and  all 
eternity,  and  thus  is  perpetuated  the  great  principle  of  fatherhood 
and  motherhood,  as  already  mentioned.  Oh,  how, very  important  is 
this  matter !  Young  men  in  Israel  be  careful,  young  women  be  care- 
ful. In  seeking  this  blessing  be  sure  to  get  the  best  there  is.  The  best  is 
what  God  offers,  and  not  what  is  given  by  man. 

I  testify  to  you,  in  all  humility,  that  this  is  the  Church  of  the 
Redeemer,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet;  that  Christ  died 
for  the  sins  of  the  world,  that  we  might  arise  from  this  fallen  condi- 
tion that  we  are  in ;  that  we  might  be  redeemed  and  brought  back 
into  the  presence  of  God,  in  which  event  we  will  have  solved  the 
problem  of  life. 

God  bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

While  it  is  sometimes  difficult,  it  is  always  an  honor  to  rep- 
resent one  of  the  great  missions  of  the  Church.  I  carry  that 
feeling  this  morning  in  speaking  in  behalf  of  the  Eastern  States 
Mission.  You  know  it  is  one  of  the  most  populous  missions  in 
the  Church  and  we  have  all  kinds  and  classes  of  people  living 
within  that  great  mission.  We  see  the  rich  and  the  poor  and  all 
grades— I  was  going  to  say— of  humanity.  It  is  therefore  an  in- 
spiring thought  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  does  answer  the 
problems  of  life  for  all  classes  of  people. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  words  of  this  conference.  I  have  re- 
joiced in  the  fine  teachings  and  especially  in  the  spirit  of  the  con- 
ference, and  feel  as  you  I  am  sure  feel  that  those  who  come  with 
a  spirit  and  desire  to  worship  are  greatly  inspired  and  impressed 

Not  long  ago  in  one  of  the  cities  of  the  East  a  well  informed 
and  well  educated  man  attended  our  services.  At  the  close  of  the 
service  he  said :  "You  need  not  speak  to  me  of  your  religion  from 
the  standpoint  of  the  scriptures,  I  have  been  studying  it  long 
and  I  am  sure  it  agrees  with  the  teachings  of  the  Savior  as  re- 
corded m  the  Bible.  I  believe  in  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  as 
you  teach  them,  but  I  want  to  know,  and  I  am  seeking  to  find  a 
religion  that  will  answer  some  of  the  practical  problems  of  life 
1  want  to  know  how  we  can  meet  this  great  inequality  that  exists 
in  the  economic  world,  where  some  are  rich  and  some  are  poor 
Does  the  religion  you  teach  answer  that  question?" 

I  was  glad  to  answer  "yes."  Though  it  may  sound  presump- 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 


69 


tuous,  God  has  revealed  in  this  day  the  answer  to  the  problems 
of  life  that  are  so  distressing  in  this  world  today.  I  have  thought 
somewhat  to  gather  accurate  statistics,  and  have  found  it  some- 
what difficult.  But  one  government  statistician  wrote  me  a  letter 
not  long  ago  and  said  it  was  a  safe  estimate  to  say  that  a  billion 
and  a  quarter  dollars  are  spent  in  this  country  every  year  for 
tobacco,  that  that  is  the  cost  to  the  ultimate  consumer.  He  said 
it  was  perhaps  safe  to  say  that  an  equal  amount  is  spent  for 
liquor.  He  would  not  venture  an  estimate  on  the  cost  of  tea  and 
coffee,  but  he  did  say  to  me  that  if  all  of  the  cost  of  the  things 
that  are  forbidden  in  our  Word  of  Wisdom  could  be  accurately 
ascertained  he  was  sure  that  it  would  exceed  more  than  four  bil- 
lion dollars  a  year.  That  is  the  amount  estimated  now  by  the 
government  as  necessary  to  place  on  the  payrolls  3,500,000  men. 

If  we  could  save  to  the  people  of  the  United  States  and  to 
this  Church  the  amount  of  money  that  is  expended  for  the  things 
that  are  forbidden  by  the  word  of  God  we  would  go  a  long  way 
toward  solving  the  question  of  unemployment.  Moreover,  we 
hear  a  good  deal  said  of  the  "share  the  wealth"  programs  of  the 
world.  Do  you  know  that  that  is  basic  in  the  financial  policy  of 
this  Church?  Our  financial  laws  are  made  upon  ability  to  pay, 
and  if  we  honestly  paid  even  our  tithing  we  would  have  more 
than  sufficient  to  take  care  of  the  wants  of  the  people,  and  there 
would  not  be  great  inequality  in  the  wealth  of  the  world.  God 
has  revealed  a  just  and  workable  plan  that  would  distribute  prop- 
erly, if  the  laws  are  lived,  the  wealth  of  the  world.  Indeed  he  has 
asked  us  to  consecrate  even  the  surplus  of  our  property  unto  the 
work  of  the  Lord. 

When  I  had  explained  these  laws  together  with  the  law  of 
Fast  offerings,  this  man  said:  "Why  don't  you  preach  that  to  us? 
Human  hearts  are  yearning  today  for  a  message  that  you  say  is 
inherent  in  vour  Gospel." 

Then  he  said:  "What  of  the  crime,  and  the  sin  and  misery 

in  the  world?" 

To  that  also  we  give  an  answer.  It  has  been  referred  to  here 
this  morning.  We  believe  that  the  basic  unit  of  civilization  is  the 
home;  that  it  should  be  commenced  in  the  most  sacred  places  in 
the  world— homes  of  prayer,  homes  of  love,  homes  of  unity, 
homes  that  are  united  and  cemented  under  the  inspiration  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  the  children  coming  into  the  world  under 
influences  of  that  kind  have  a  much  better  opportunity  and  better 
start  in  life. 

Our  parents  teach  their  children  to  live  honorable  and  up- 
right lives,  for  "We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevo- 
lent, virtuous  and  in  doing  good  to  all  men.  ...  If  there  is  anything 
virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after 
these  things." 

In  a  home  life  of  that  kind  children  are  started  properly. 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sometimes  it  is  true  they  depart  therefrom,  but  the  law  of  aver- 
ages teaches  us  that  children  brought  up  under  the  influence  of 
a  Latter-day  Saint  home  are  much  more  apt  to  walk  in  the  paths 
of  righteousness  throughout  life  than  otherwise.  And  then  as 
soon  as  they  are  old  enough  they  attend  our  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions, our  Sunday  Schools,  Primaries,  Seminaries,  Religion  Classes 
and  Mutual  Improvement  Associations— all  these  are  helps  in 
government,  to  save  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men,  to  bring 
them  to  a  higher  and  deeper  appreciation  of  the  religion  of  our 
Master,  Jesus  Christ.  Therein  Ave  have  a  solution  and  answer  to 
the  question,  How  shall  we  improve  the  morals  and  avoid  the 
sins  of  the  world? 

The  answer  is,  by  starting  the  home  life  properly,  by  jrivme 
attention  to  the  ideals  of  the  home,  and  living  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  with  all  these  other  helps  in  government,  to  brino-  us 
nearer  to  the  ideals  of  a  perfect  life.  & 

Again  my  friend  said:  "Why  don't  you  teach  us  that?" 

t  u  S?ld  :  I'1.  wlsh  1  could'  1  could  P^ture  to  you  the  life  of  a 
Latter-day  Saint.  I  could  picture  to  you  the  life  of  a  mother  in 
this  Church,  and  I  could  give  to  you  the  hopes  and  ideals  and 
ambitions  that  are  implanted  in  the  hearts  of  the  boys  and  girls 
of  this  Church  by  reason  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  by  point- 
ing toward  the  great  ideal  of  all-the  life,  and  the  light,  and  the 
way,  even  Jesus  Christ."  b 

.  And  last  of  all  we  teach  them  faith  in  a  living  God,  faith  in 
a  just  and  merciful  Father,  that  this  life  is  but  a  preparation  for 

o t&rs  '  V  1  V*  t0i  Cr C'  and  that  under  the  inspiration 
of  the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father  we  shall  go  on  to  perfection. 

Blind  unbelief  is  sure  to  err 
And  scan  his  works  in  vain; 
God  is  his  own  interpreter, 
And  he  will  make  it  plain. ' 

Chr^TrFi?  tT  so^nd. P^sumptuous,  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Cnnst  ln  lts  philosophy,  is  the  answer  to  the  problems  of  life 

Of  JOSner^derSt00d  f"  ^  ?W  ^  back  to  ^  paths 

of  prosperity    peace,  love,  and  unity  and  a  recognition  of  the 

great  eternal  Fatherhood  of  God.  In  their  humble" way  tte  mis- 

TsZ'etntt  ^t™  SiateS,Mission  are  to^ake  that 

message  to  the  world,  and  m  humility  I  add  thit  morning  my 

osolv  ofrTV^1  kn°W  this  W°"k  is  of  God>  a»d  ^phil- 
osophy of  Jesus  Christ  answers  well  the  problems  of  life  Mav 

he  give  us  all  that  testimony  and  lead  us  evei  to  his  praise  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen.  P  ' 

Manti  Choir7113"1"  W*  A"'        G°d,;'  *  SaCred  anthem>  was  SU"S  by  the 

of  t^lll^tZ^  Pr°nOUnCed  b^  Elder  Carl  K-  Conrad,  President 
Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


SECOND  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Saturday  afternoon, 
April  6,  at  2  o'clock. 

The  Manti  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  meeting. 

The  hymn,  "Zion  Prospers,  All  is  Well,"  was  sung  by  the  choir. 

Elder  Joseph  T.  Finlinson,  President  of  the  Deseret  Stake,  ottered 

the  invocation.  .  , 

"Let  the  Mountains  Shout  for  Joy,"  an  anthem,  was  sung  by  ttie 

choir. 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvelve  Apostles 

This  is  an  inspiring  sight  indeed.  My  soul  has  been  stirred 
through  the  various  sessions  of  this  conference,  it  seems  to  me,  to 
deeper  depths  than  it  has  ever  been  sounded  before.  It  has  all  been 
o-lorious.  I  plead  now  for  the  endowment  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  per- 
mit me  to  do  and  say  that  which  would  be  proper  and  fitting  upon 
this  occasion. 

It  has  been  my  privilege,  recently,  to  visit  more  than  1  have  ever 
clone  heretofore,  the  stakes  of  Zion.  I  have  been  deeply  impressed 
in  my  visits  with  the  people,  and  I  have  thought  if  I  might  have  the 
liberty  of  the  Spirit  for  a  few  moments  this  afternoon,  that  I  may 
speak  upon  a  very  common  theme,  but  pertaining  to  that  which  I 
think  is  perhaps  one  of  the  most  potent  powers  in  the  world,  that  of 
the  holy  priesthood. 

THE  ARMY  OF  THE  LORD 

A  few  weeks  back  I  was  permitted  to  attend  a  stake  conference. 
I  was  delighted  with  the  numbers  that  came  out  to  the  various 
meetings  on  the  Sabbath  clay.  But  they  held  a  priesthood  meeting  in 
that  stake  Monday  evening.  As  I  went  back  to  attend  that  priest- 
hood meeting,  and  looked  into  the  faces  of  778  men,  I  was  thrilled ; 
and  as  they  stood  and,  under  the  direction  of  the  capable  leader,  sang 
a  hymn,  it  seemed  to  me  that  it  virtually  opened  the  gates  of  heaven 
that  the  Lord  might  pour  out  a  blessing  upon  them.  Seven  hundred 
seventy-eight  men,  on  a  week-day  evening,  men  who  are  busy  mak- 
ing their  honest  living,  but  there  assembled  to  better  qualify  them- 
selves to  offer  a  consecrated  service  to  the  Lord !  I  thought  as  I 
looked  at  them,  this  is  a  sort  of  a  vision  of  the  strength  and  power 
and  virility  of  this  Church ;  one  stake  out  of  the  hundred  and  eleven, 
and  there  assembled  this  fine  group  of  men. 

I  thought:  What  is  the  army  of  the  Lord?  I  looked  at  a  seg- 
ment of  it.  If  'I  multiply  it  by  one  hundred  and  eleven  I  will  get 
some  glimpse  of  this  mighty  army— 90,000  men  bearing  the  holy 
Melchizedek  priesthood;  90,000  young  men  bearing  the  Aaromc 
priesthood.    What  a  power!    This  is  a   Church  of  priesthood, 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

and  priesthood  is  a  potent  power,   an  ever-growing-  ever-in- 
creasing- power,-not  a  wasting,  not  a  wicked,  not  a  destroying 
P?r  C^  i   a  SaTmg'  conservative,  righteous  power— yes,  the  power 
of  God  delegated  to  man,  delegated  to  man  in  his  weakness.   Yes  bu 
not  in  his  wickedness.  ' 

THE  SOURCE  OF  THEIR  STRENGTH 

These  are  men  possessed  of  faith  in  God  our  Father  and  in  Tesus 
Uinst,  our  Lord.  These  are  men  who  put  on  the  full  armor  of  right- 
eousness and  have  forsaken  Satan,  the  arch  enemy  of  God  and  a  1 
hat  he  stands  for.  These  are  men  who  were  cleansed  by  baptism 
by  immersion,  men  who  have  received  the  Holy  Ghost  by  ieC 
on  of  hands  of  those  in  authority;  men  unto  whom  the  Lord  has 

demS  ion  of  Z^U^^  the  salvation  of  men  and  the  re- 
demption of  the  world;  men  who  have  taken  upon  themselves  and 
adopted  every  principle  and  order  and  practice  of  righteousness  and 
*ZZSS££  PneSth00d*  Wi"^  togspeakSandSact  in 

greafSSSSffifSf  ^  °f  d°eS  n0t  COnsist  entirely  of  the 
?trenV^  ,  named'  nor  of  m^  activity ;  but  their 

stak  ^pSidTcv^nf^-^1^  P  °f  "the  member*  ^  the 

^XSj^S^I?  theirfC0Unfj  several  quorums' of 
ers  and  the  deacon T^thTj  P"ests  with  the  bishops,  the  teach- 
prs^nizSTs^  Wdenocs  and  with  their  supervis- 


AT  THE  HEAD  OF  THE  CHURCH 


K  sssri  iVsT^  LPref dent  °i  s 

appointed  as  president  nf  tl,  n  t  6  ,L°rd  Says  of  hlm  that  * 
s  ding  high  priest  over  1!  W^§h  Pn^th°°d  °«  the  Church,  or  pre- 
at  the  heTdP0  tl  e  Ch„  eh    Th  'T^0^  o£  the  Ch«reh,  to  stand 

Moses;  behold,  ere  irvvhdom  /JJ  tl0n,SayS'  to  be  Iike  u»t0 
ing  all  the  gifts  of  fiTK  i!    I'  *  reveIator-  a  translator,  hav- 

Churrh-  "L  .  %  ■  n'ch  he  best«  upon  the  head  of  the 
i_.nurcn,  or  as  it  says  in  another  revelitinn  ■  «TT„t   u-  Z, 

dent  of  the  Church,  I  have  given  the  key'  of  X-  V     A  ^  K^t 

always  belong  to  the  presidency  of  the  Qiu^ch  "°  Wh'Ch 

chJSrrai^r  thr stands  ,at  the  head  °f  the 

never  has  but  „„„„„„?  and  the  only  man-because  the  Lord 
Power  and  ?SX.  rftt^dt.°nCe'-Wh0  h°'dS  the  Sea1^ 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 


73 


We  know  to  whom  to  look,  to  him  whom  the  Lord  has  appointed, 
and  while  he  has  given  him  two  choice  men  to  be  his  counselors,  he 
says  of  the  three,  that  they  are  appointed  and  ordained  of  God  to 
stand  in  their  position,  and  they  are  to  be  sustained  by  the  faith 
and  confidence  and  prayers  of  the  Saints,  and  that  these  three  consti- 
tute a  quorum  of  presidency,  and  unto  that  presidency  the  Lord  re- 
veals the  oracles -of  the  Church  for  the  whole  church. 

EVERY  MAN  KNOWS  HIS  CALLING 

While  the  revelation  is  definite  in  outlining  the  responsibility, 
duty  and  authority  of  this  presidency,  the  Lord,  in  his  mercy,  has 
made  the  duties  and  responsibilities  and  authority  of  every  other 
man  that  holds  the  priesthood,  just  as  clearly  defined  as  for  the  presi- 
dency of  the  Church.  Every  man  in  this  Church  knows  his  calling, 
knows  his  place,  knows  his  authority.  There  is  no  schism,  no  di- 
vision, no  misunderstanding,  because  the  Lord,  after  he  has  outlined 
all  of  their  duties,  sends  them  forth  to  labor  with  this  admonition : 

Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn  his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in  which 
he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

So  this  hundred  and  eighty  thousand  can  be  added  to  and  multi- 
plied, and  with  the  Lord's  way  never  develop  any  friction,  any  mis- 
understanding. The  opportunities  in  this  Church  are  boundless. 
This,  to  my  mind,  is  the  marvelous  work  and  wonder  that  the  Lord 
said  should  come  forth,  a  provision  whereby  every  man,  true,  honest; 
and  of  good  report,  may  receive  by  divine  interposition  of  hands  the 
holy  priesthood ;  every  boy  over  twelve  years  of  age  called  to  labor, 
given  a  ministry,  given  authority  to  speak  and  act  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord.   Nothing  else  like  it  anywhere  in  the  world ! 

THE  MAGNITUDE  OF  THIS  WORK 

We  are  a  people  of  priesthood  in  very  deed.  Some  complain 
who  are  not  of  us,  for  we  are  a  people  that  enjoy  the  same  distinc- 
tion as  the  ancient  Saints  that  Peter  spoke  of,  only  perhaps  we  enjoy 
it  to  a  greater  degree.  He  said  of  the  people : 

But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal  priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a  peculiar 
people  that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises  of  him  who  hath  called  you  out  of 
darkness  into  his  marvelous  light. 

No  wonder  that  the  Lord,  when  he  had  an  organization  and  had 
followed  it  along,  line  upon  line,  revelation  upon  revelation,  until 
Joseph  the  Prophet  was  authorized  to  lay  the  foundation  of  the 
Church — no  wonder  that  he  should  say : 

Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on 
high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men ;  yea,  verily  I  say :  Hearken  ye  people  from 
afar ;  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen  together. 

For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to  escape ; 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear,  neither  heart 
that  shall  not  be  penetrated.  .  .  . 

And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my  dis- 
ciples, whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days. 

And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have  com- 
manded them. 

Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and  the  authority  of  my  servants. 

ONLY  ON  PRINCIPLES  OF  RIGHTEOUSNESS 

No  power  can  stop  that.  The  way  is  perfect.  The  way  of  the 
Lord  fails  not.  There  are  some  imperfections,  yes,  in  us,  but  the 
Lord  has  indicated  that  we  should  overcome  our  imperfections ;  and 
it  has  been  preached  in  this  conference  how  we  should  overcome  our 
imperfections,  and  that  the  Lord  expects  it  of  us. 

President  Clawson  said  it  is  a  long  way  to  perfection,  a  long" 
struggle,  but  he  said  we  must  be  on  the  way.  We  must  be  struggling 
to  that  end,  laying  off  every  weakness,  developing  every  inherent 
power,  being  added  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  making  our  lives  such 
that  we  have  a  right  to  officiate  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  That  is 
the  secret  of  our  power.  We  cannot  function,  we  cannot  move  the 
powers  of  heaven,  we  cannot  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness,  or 
any  righteousness,  T  may  say,  only  on  principles  of  genuine  right- 
eousness that  are  in  us,  that  we  live,  that  we  act,  that  we  are  what 
the  Lord  would  have  us  to  be.  He  has  never  lowered  the  standard. 
The  standard  that  he  gave  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  the 
Prophet's  father  has  never  been  varied  or  let  down.  The  Lord  said 
to  him,  when  he  made  his  inquiry  in  faith,  believing: 

Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him  with 
all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and*  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless  before  God 
at  the  last  day. 

Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve  God  ye  are  called  to  the  work ; 

For  behold  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest;  and  lo,  he  that  thrusteth 
in  his  sickle  with  his  might,  the  same  layeth  up  in  store  that  he  perisheth  not,  but 
bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul ; 

And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God, 
qualify  him  for  the  work. 

Remember,  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kind- 
ness, godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence. 

What  a  preparation !  What  an  army  we  have !  What  a  light 
to  the  world,  if  Ave  just  followed  and  kept  that  high  standard  in  our 
minds!  There  would  be  no  boy  that  would  drift.  There  would  be  no 
father  nor  mother  but  what  would  point  their  son  toward  the  day 
when  he  should  feel  moving  within  him  a  spirit  akin  to  the;  spirit 
which  moved  in  the  Master  when  he  was  but  twelve  years  of  age. 

THE  BOY  OF  TWELVE 

I  have  cherished  the  belief  that  it  was  not  just  a  "happened  so" 
that  the  Lord  said  that  a  clean,  wholesome  boy  of  twelve  years  of  age 
should  be  permitted  to  receive  the  priesthood.    I  believe  that  it  is 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 


75 


natural  to  him  at  that  period  of  his  life  to  feel  that  he  would  like  to 
be  up  and  about  his  Father's  business. 

I  think,  bishops — and  I  speak  with  some  degree  of  understand- 
ing-, because  I  have  labored  in  such  a  council — I  think,  presidents 
of  stakes,  I  think,  fathers,  and  'I  think,  mothers,  there  is  no  higher 
ideal  that  could  be  pointed  to  a  son  than :  "Watch  the  day,  make 
your  preparation,  be  ready  to  speak,  have  a  spirit  like  a  Samuel,  and 
when  the  Lord  calls,  say:    'Lord,  speak;  thy  servant  heareth.'  " 

I  know  that  the  Lord  wants  us  to  have  our  boys,  at  twelve,  in 
groups  of  twelve,  presided  over  by  sweet,  clean,  wholesome  boys  of 
their  age.  I  know  that  he  wants  to  have  our  boys,  in  groups  of 
twenty-four,  under  presidencies  of  their  own  group,  watching  over 
the  Church,  to  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity,  evil-speaking,  or  back- 
biting in  the  Church. 

THE  LORD  S  WAY 

It  seems  so  fitting  to  me  to  think  that  the  Lord  has  made  pro- 
vision that  the  young  man  eighteen  and  nineteen  years  of  age  shall 
sit  at  the  feet  of  the  bishop  and  be  instructed,  with  him  as  president ; 
that  he  shall  be  taught,  and  that  he  shall  go  into  the  house  of  the 
Saints;  that  he  shall  preach,  teach,  exhort,  and  expound  the  script- 
ure ;  that  ninety-six  men,  older,  maturer,  receiving  the  holy  Melchiz- 
edek  priesthood,  shall  stand  next  to  the  presidency  of  the  stake  and 
be  the  standing  ministry  of  the  stake ;  and  the  seventy,  by  their  divine 
appointment,  shall  lift  up  their  voices  in  every  land  and  clime,  call 
men  unto  repentance  and  teach  them  the  Gospel,  and  induct  them 
into  the  fold  of  Christ.  So  beautiful,  so  perfect,  so  complete,  is  the 
Lord's  way! 

HE  WHO  KEEPS  HIS  ARMOR  BRIGHT 

Would  there  be  any  soul  that  wouldn't  be  inspired  to  keep  his 
armor  bright  and  to  be  available,  and  to  offer  his  first  devotion  unto 
God?  Blessed  is  the  man  that  finds  himself  in  accord  with  this. 
Blessed  is  the  man  that  takes  upon  him  the  whole  armor  of  Christ. 
Blessed  is  the  man  who  stands,  as  the  Lord  says  he  should,  and 
sustains  the  presidency  of  this  Church  with  his  confidence,  with  his 
faith,  with  his  prayers,  with  his  works.  Happy  indeed  is  he  who 
shall  walk  in  the  light,  and  his  feet  shall  follow  safe  paths,  and  his 
children  and  his  children's  children  after  him  shall  rise  up  and  call 
him  blessed. 

AN  AWFUL  CONDITION 

But  oh,  for  those  who  turn  their  back  upon  the  Lord — I  think 
I  might  be  permitted  to  read  a  few  words  concerning  them.  To  me 
these  are  doleful  words  : 

Cursed  are  all  those  that  shall  lift  up  the  heel  against  mine  anointed,  saith 
the  Lord,  and  cry  they  have  sinned  when  they  have  not  sinned  before  me,  saith 
the  Lord,  but  have  done  that  which  was  meet  in  mine  eyes,  and  which  I  com- 
manded them. 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


But  those  who  cry  transgression  do  it  because  they  are  the  servants  of  sin,  and 
are  the  children  of  disobedience  themselves. 

And  those  who  swear  falsely  against  my  servants,  that  they  might  bring  them 
into  bondage  and  death — 

Wo  unto  them ;  because  they  have  offended  my  little  ones  they  shall  be  severed 
from  the  ordinances  of  mine  house. 

Their  basket  shall  not  be  full,  their  houses  and  their  barns  shall  perish,  and 
they  themselves  shall 'be  despised  by  those  that  flattered  them. 

They  shall  not  have  right  to  the  priesthood,  nor  their  posterity  after  them, 
from  generation  to  generation. 

What  a  condition!    How  do  men  ever  reach  that  condition? 
The  Lord  says  "Because  they  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  nor 
^/  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  nor  hearken  to  the  words  of  the  apostles  and 
prophets,  but  every  man  walketh  in  his  own  light,  according  to  his 
own  way." 

God  help  us  to  be  free  from  such  a  fate  as  that,  and  lead  us  to 
stand  valiantly  for  the  truth  forever,  and  reveal  to  us,  through  his 
Holy  Spirit,  through  the  unspeakable  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  his 
mind  and  will.  God  help  us  to  be  so  pure,  so  virtuous  and  true,  that 
the  doctrines  of  the  priesthood  shall  distill  upon  our  souls  as  the 
dews  froim  heaven,  now,  henceforth  and  forever,  I  pray  for  you,  for 
me,  and  for  our  children  and  our  children's  children  forever,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

Soon  after  I  entered  upon  my  ministry  as  one  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric,  I  was  requested  to  tear  down  a  monument  erected  by  the  first 
pioneers.  It  did  not  appear  to  many  of  us,  at  that  time,  that  that  work 
being  destroyed  was  a  monument.  Many  of  you,  no  doubt,  remember 
the  rock  wall  that  surrounded  part  of  the  block  east  of  us.  I  played 
around  it  as  a  boy  and  grew  up  under  its  shadows ;  but  the  full  signifi- 
cance of  it  did  not  come  to  me  until  the  task  of  tearing  it  down  was 
assigned  to  me. 

As  I  witnessed  the  heavy  sledge  hammers  break  out  the  stones  from 
the  mortar,  and  saw  the  rock  wall  crumble,  there  came  to  me  a  picture 
of  conditions  that  caused  it  to  be  erected.  I  saw  groups  of  men  unem- 
ployed other  than  the  employment  provided  to  keep  them  active  and  to 
help  them  feel  they  were  doing  their  part  to  build  a  city.  In  this  day 
we  would  call  it  work  relief.  I  saw  in  my  mind  men  gathering  stones 
from  the  face  of  the  earth,  some  burning  rock  for  lime,  others  hauling 
sand,  mixing  mortar,  and  laying  the  rock  and  mortar  into  the  wall. 

I  pleaded  with  Bishop  Nibley  to  let  me  move  one  of  the  buttresses, 
to  stand  it  as  a  pillar  for  future  generations  to  look  upon.  His  answer 
was :  "We  have  the  temple  wall,  and  I  hope  the  time  will  never  come 
when  we  tear  that  down.    This  wall  has  served  its  purpose." 

For  the  last  two  years  it  has  been  my  duty  to  help  pass  upon  the 
expenditure  of  government  funds,  and  I  could  not  help  but  think,  while 


ELDER  DAVID   A.  SMITH 


77 


Brother  Smoot  was  talking,  of  some  of  the  accomplishments — if  they  can 
be  called  accomplishments — of  some  of  the  sons  of  those  sturdy  pioneers, 
who  have  been  employed  on  relief  work. 

I  have  made  a  few  notes  from  which  I  shall  call  attention  to  a  few 
things  which  have  happened  during  the  last  year. 

In  the  State  of  Utah  26,000  families  have  been  on  relief,  numbering 
112,000  people,  almost  the  population  of  Salt  Lake  City;  22  percent  of 
the  families  of  the  State.  They  received  $27  per  family  per  month  ap- 
proximately; $10,000,000  of  government  money  during  the  last  twelve 
months,  and  about  $2,000,000  from  the  sales  tax  of  the  State  of  Utah. 

Idaho  has  17,000  families  on  relief,  numbering  62,000  individuals, 
14  per  cent  of  her  population,  and  they  have  received  $24  per  family  per 
month,  or  nearly  $2,000,000  for  the  third  quarter.  I  haven't  the  record 
for  the  year. 

Arizona  had  26,000  families  on  relief,  numbering  approximately 
103,000  individuals,  24  per  cent  of  the  population,  and  they  have  re- 
ceived $20  per  month  per  family,  nearly  $8,000,000  a  year. 

The  State  of  Utah  furnished  8  percent;  the  State  of  Idaho  1/10  of 
1  per  cent;  the  State  of  Arizona  13.7  per  cent. 

The  counties  in  the  State  of  Utah,  7  percent;  the' counties  of  Idaho 
7Yl  percent,  and  the  counties  of  Arizona  nothing. 

Besides  this  we  have  had  surplus  commodities  which  were  dis- 
tributed, beef /pork,  butter,  lard,  rice,  beans,  cereals,  cotton  in  all  forms, 
ready  for  clothing,  for  ticking ;  and  mattresses  have  been  made  and  dis- 
tributed to  the  poor. 

One  hundred  twenty-six  thousand  of  our  cattle  in  the  State  of  Utah 
have  been  slaughtered,  and  approximately  35,000  of  them  were  destroyed 
as  being  unfit  for  food.  The  balance  were  canned  and  distributed  for  food 
as  fresh  meat. 

A  week  ago  I  asked  one  of  the  engineers  inspecting  the  work  we 
have  been  doing  on  this  work  relief  what  the  actual  value  of  the  work 
accomplished  was.  I  suggested  it  would  possibly  reach  about  40  percent. 
His  answer  was :  "I  think  25  percent,  and  certainly  not  more  than  30 
percent,  is  a  fair  actual  value." 

Then  I  looked  back  upon  that  wall  which  years  ago  I  helped  tear 
down.  That  wall,  when  built,  had  in  it  the  souls  of  men  who  were  liv- 
ing, not  for  today  but  tomorrow,  and  for  generations  yet  to  come.  And 
when  I  have  seen,  during  the  past  year,  requests  come  in  for  two  thou- 
sand, three  thousand,  four  thousand  dollars  to  pay  men  to  go  out  on  the 
ditch  banks  and  clean  weeds  that  our  pride  should  naturally  suggest  we 
do  without  being  employed  to  do  it ;  and  requests  for  funds  to  pay  men 
to  tear  down  trees  that  our  fathers  had  planted  and  nourished,  I  have 
wondered  sometimes  if  there  are  not  some  among  us  who  have  for- 
gotten the  spirit  of  our  fathers,  for  I  find  few  places  where  trees  have, 
as  yet,  replaced  those  that  have  been  torn  down. 

When  I  think  of  these  things,  I  recall  the  statement  made  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  recorded  in  Ether,  9th  chapter,  26th  verse : 

And  the  people  had  spread  again  over  all  the  face  of  the  land,  and  there  began 
again  to  be  an  exceeding  great  wickedness  upon  the  face  of  the  land.  .  .  . 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


And  there  came  prophets  in  the  land  again,  crying  repentance  unto  them — that 
they  must  prepare  the  way  of  the  Lord,  or  there  should  come  a  curse  upon  the  face 
of  the  land ;  yea,  even  there  should  be  a  great  famine,  in  which  they  should  be 
destroyed  if  they  did  not  repent. 

But  the  people  believed  not  the  words  of  the  prophets,  but  they  cast  them 
out;  .  .  . 

Now,  when  the  people  saw  that  they  must  perish,  they  began  to  repent  of  their 
iniquities,  and  cry  unto  the  Lord. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  they  had  humbled  themselves  sufficiently  before 
the  Lord  he  did  send  rain  upon  the  face  of  the  earth ;  and  the  people  began  to 
revive  again,  and  there  began  to  be  fruit  in  the  north  countries,  and  in  all  the 
countries  round  about.  And  the  Lord  did  show  forth  his  power  unto  them  in 
preserving  them  from  famine. 

As  I  stand  here  and  look  through  the  windows  of  this  building-,  I 
see  a  monument.  We  know  it  as  the  seagull  monument.  Oh,  how  many 
times  have  I  heard  my  father  tell  that  story.  I  would  like  to  repeat  it, 
but  time  will  not  permit.  He  was  a  part  of  it  as  a  boy  in  his  tenth  year, 
and  I  have  never  known  him  to  speak  of  it  without  wiping  the  tears 
from  his  eyes  as  he  mentioned  that  great  miracle  which  prepared  the  way 
for  increased  faith  and  renewed  determination. 

When  I  think  of  the  troubles,  the  hardships,  the  trials  endured  by 
those  who  made  it  possible  for  us  to  live  in  this  land,  I  wonder  if  we, 
their  children  and  grandchildren,  are  growing  up  to  believe,  as  they  be- 
lieved, that  God  will  hear  and  answer  prayers ;  that  he  will  grant  unto 
us  every  choice  blessing ;  that  to  receive  these  blessings  it  is  absolutely 
necessary  that  we  live  close  to  him  and  are  obedient  to  his  command- 
ments, for  his  blessings  will  not  come  to  those  who  turn  from  him  and 
make  light  of  his  work. 

Encouragement  comes  to  me  in  the  fact  that  I  can  visit  with  you, 
my  brethren,  who  have  learned  that  the  factor  of  safety  in  this  Church 
is  activity  in  the  Church.  The  man  upon  whom  the  priesthood  has  been 
conferred  who  fails  to  magnify  his  priesthood  is  in  danger  of  losing  it 
and  its  blessings.  He  has  not  learned  to  know,  or  forgets,  the  spirit 
that  comes  with  active  work  under  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God  and 
he  drifts  under  evil  influences ;  and  because  we  permit  him  to  drift,  and 
to  fall  away,  and  make  light  of  the  power  which  has  been  promised  to 
him,  and  which  perhaps  he  has  exercised,  we  must  pay  also  for  neglect- 
ing our  responsibility. 

•  1  }\mu  jf  Seems  at  times  that  we  are  deprived  of  blessings  which 
rightfully  belong  to  us,  because  we  have  failed  in  our  duty  to  keep  con- 
stantly in  touch  with  those  of  our  brethren  upon  whom  the  priesthood 
has  been  conferred,  and  who,  because  of  evil  influences,  are  being  drawn 
away.  b 

During  this  depression  we  made  a  survey  and  found  that  those  who 
Have  been  tithepayers  were  not  suffering  as  those  who  were  not  tithe- 

PuyerS"1  ion  SUtVey  °f  three  stakes'  with  a  total  of  twenty-one  wards, 
showed  332  men  over  the  age  of  65— and  the  average  age  was  75  plus. 
But  we  found  of  that  number  only  26  were  dependent.  The  balance 
were  independent ;  as  compared  with  the  insurance  table,  from  which  we 
learn  that  of  100  men  who  start  life  at  the  age  of  25,  1  is  very  wealthy, 


ELDER  DAVID   A.  SMITH 


79 


4  are  independent,  3  are  spending  all  they  have,  36  have  died,  54  are 
dependent  at  the  age  of  65. 

I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  greatest  insurance  that 
can  come  to  man  or  woman  in  this  earth  is  that  assurance  which  God 
gives,  the  promise  that  to  those  who  are  faithful  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments shall  come  eternal  life  and  happiness. 

God  help  us  to  understand  his  purposes.  May  we  look  back  upon 
the  work  of  our  ancestors  and  remember  that  the  actuating  influence  was 
faith.  May  we  recall  the  blessings  that  came  to  them,  and  which  have 
been  passed  on  to  us.  Let  us  develop  in  our  own  soul  a  spirit  of  pride, 
that  it  may  not  be  said  of  us  that  we  must  turn  to  charity,  forgetting 
God  and  his  promises.  May  we  keep  the  commandments  of  God  and 
magnify  his  work  and  humble  ourselves  before  the  Lord.  I  pray,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  he  will  look  upon  us  in  mercy,  help  us  to  un- 
derstand his  purposes  fully  and  to  labor  in  faith  and  diligence  to  accom- 
plish them,  that  we  may  enjoy  the  blessings  he  has  promised,  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

"O  Divine  Redeemer,"  was  sung  by  the  Manti  Choir,  Clara  Johnson, 
soloist. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzuelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  that  the  influence  which  has  made  this 
conference  beautifully  spiritual  may  guide  me  while  I  stand  before  you.  I 
always  feel  that  it  is  a  great  privilege  to  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
the  Gospel,  and  I  feel  so  today,  although  I  confess  that  to  stand  before 
this  great  audience  is  to  be,  filled  with  human  fear. 

THE  THINGS  THAT  PERTAIN  TO  GOD 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  know  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  our  Redeemer,  and  that  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored  in  these  days,  for  our 
good  and  salvation,  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  I  rejoice  in  this  knowledge  and  in  this  testimony.  Into  this 
knowledge  I  can  tie  all  the. affairs  of  my  life.  It  gives  life  and  joy  to  all 
the  things  that  pertain  to  my  life. 

I  know  that  it  is  good  to  deal  with  the  things  of  God.  In  this  per- 
plexing and  perplexed  world,  in  this  world  of  depression  of  which  we 
have  heard  much  during  this  conference,  there  is  no  place  in  which  we 
can  find  such  comfort  and  peace,  joy  and  forgetfulness,  as  in  the  things 
that  pertain  to  God  and  his  dealings  with  his  children.  To  read  the 
scriptures  when  one  is  depressed,  to  attend  meetings,  to  go  to  the  temple, 
is  to  bring  peace  and  comfort  into  one's  heart.  I  believe,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  when  we  so  do,  we  are  able  to  see  more  clearly  the  solutions  of 
the  affairs  of  life,  and  understand  better  how  to  meet  the  issues  of  this 
or  any  other  day  that  may  come  into  our  lives. 

) 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  know  that  God  is  guiding  this  Church.  His  will  is  overshadowing 
his  Church.  There  is  no  chance  in  the  progress  of  this  great  institution. 
As  this  Church  goes  about  doing  its  duty,  no  mistakes  are  made  that  do 
not  vanish  in  the  great  forward  movement  occasioned  by  the  Spirit  of 
God. 

NOTABLE  EVENTS  IN  CHURCH  HISTORY 

I  have  been  thinking  a  great  deal  lately  about  the  notable  events  that 
occurred  one  hundred  years  ago.  I  have  had  occasion  to  read  the  splendid 
issue  of  the  Improvement  Era  dedicated  to  the  memory  of  the  organization 
of  the  first  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  the  first  Council  of  the  Seventy 
in  this  dispensation.  I  trust  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  home  will  se- 
cure a  copy  of  this  very  notable  publication  of  the  Church,  and  secure 
them  before  the  edition  is  exhausted.  The  Deseret  News,  likewise,  has 
featured  these  events  for  the  last  several  weeks.  I  have  enjoyed  reflecting 
upon  the  matters  that  these  publications  have  set  forth  before  us. 

May  I  say,  in  passing,  that  I  hope  all  Latter-day  Saints  have'  access 
to  our  own  great  newspaper,  the  Deseret  News.  I  read  it  daily,  and  I  am 
very  glad — and  it  is  indeed  the  truth  as  I  understand  it, — to  say  to  you  that 
no  finer  newspaper  reaches  my  table,  nor  do  I  find  a  finer  one  as  I  travel 
about  throughout  the  world.  If  we  want  our  papers  and  magazines  to 
be  worthy  of  this  great  Church,  we  must  sustain  them  loyally,  not  only 
with  our  good  will  but  with  our  purses  as  well. 

A  MOST  REMARKABLE  REVELATION 

One  hundred  years  ago  this  spring  great  things  happened  in  this 
Church;  the  greatest  as  an  evidence  of  God's  guiding  hand  over  his 
Church,  occurred  on  March  28th,  1835,  just  a  few  days  more  than  one 
hundred  years  ago.  On  that  day  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  received  a  revelation  which  is  one  of  the  most  remarkable 
documents  in  the  possession  of  man.  It  stands  absolutely  unique ;  there 
is  none  like  it.  There  is  no  time  here  to  discuss  the  details  of  this  revela- 
tion ;  but  it  sets  forth,  in  plainness  and  simplicity,  the  organization  of  the 
quorums  of  the  priesthood;  the  mutual  relations  of  the  quorums  to 
one  another;  the  judicial  system  of  the  Church  is  foreshadowed  and  out- 
lined ;  and  there  is  a  wonderful  picture  of  the  early  history  of  the  priest- 
hood. I  doubt  whether  any  other  such  document,  of  the  same  small 
extent,  the  same  few  number  of  words,  lies  at  the  foundation  of  any  other 
great  human  institution. 

This  revelation,  now  known  as  Section  107,  together  with  two  or 
three  other  revelations,  forms,  as  it  were,  the  constitution  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  upon  which  we  are  building  today, 
and  upon  which  we  will  build  until  the  Lord  comes.  It  is  so  comprehen- 
sive in  its  brevity,  so  magnificent  in  its  simplicity,  that  we  have  found  no 
occasion,  up  to  the  present,  to  wish  that  it  might  have  been  more  com- 
plete. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


81 


BUILDING  THE  CHURCH  OF  CHRIST 

The  thing  that  impresses  me  about  this  revelation  is  the  manner  of  its 
coming.  When  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  but  a  lad,  he  had  the  great 
privilege  of  seeing  and  conversing  with  the  Father  and  the  Son.  Later, 
Moroni  came  to  visit  him.  This  visit  was  followed  by  a  number  of  revela- 
tions; the  plates  were  obtained;  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated. 
Then,  suddenly  as  it  seems  to  us,  reading  the  history  of  the  Church,  on 
April  6th,  1830,  all  that  which  the  Prophet  had  obtained  was  assembled, 
organized,  crystallized  in  the  revelation  known  as  Section  twenty  in  the 
book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants ;  and  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  was  or- 
ganized and  reestablished  upon  the  earth. 

After  the  organization  of  the  Church  a  series  of  great  revelations 
came  to  the  Prophet,  until  the  great  day  of  which  I  am  speaking,  March 
28th,  1835.  As  I  read  human  history  I  know  of  no  other  period  of  five 
years,save  the  years  of  the  Savior's  ministry,  that  is  so  rich  in  the  pre- 
sentation of  new,  eternal  truth,  as  these  first  five  years  in  the  history  of 
the  restored  Church  of  Christ.  Elders  were  provided  for  in  1830. 
High  priests  were  ordained  in  1831.  A  year  or  two  later  the  first  presi- 
dency was  organized.  In  the  spring  of  1835  apostles  and  seventies  were 
called.  Then  all  at  once,  as  it  were,  God  summed  up  all  that  he  had 
given  the  Prophet  and  the  people,  and  gave  a  simple  revelation,  Section 
107  in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  to  serve  as  another  founda- 
tion stone  for  the  building  of  the  Church  of  Christ. 

That  is  God's  way ;  that  is  the  natural  way.  We  men  and  women, 
when  we  build  nations  often  attempt  to  write  their  constitutions  in  full  at 
the  beginning.  The  natural  way  is  God's  way,  to  receive  here  a  little 
and^  there  a  little,  until  the  time  of  ripening  comes  and  completion  is 
attained. 

BUILDING  FOR  ETERNAL  LIFE 

I  wonder,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  do  not  need  that  lesson 
today.  W e  worry  a  great  deal  about  the  days  that  come  and  go,  about  the 
depression,  (and  we  have  need  to  worry  about  it)  and  about  many  other 
things  that  give  us  concern.  Yet  I  feel,  frequently,  that  if  we  would  go 
about  doing  our  duties  properly  and  fully,  that  somehow  out  of  the  small 
as  _  well  as  the  great  experiences  of  our  lives  would  crystallize  the  great 
thing  for  us,  the  thing  that  we  most  need.  I  cannot  understand  eternal  life 
any  other  way.  I  do  my  duty,  little  by  little,  day  by  day,  year  by  year,  and 
then  the  Lord  takes  the  deeds  of  my  life,  and  as  we  use  bridks  in  the 
building  of  a  house,  he  builds  for  me  eternal  life.  We  may  have  forgotten 
that,  at  times,  in  our  eagerness  to  accomplish. 

THE  MANNER  OF  ITS  COMING 

.  While  I  was  thinking  about  this  revelation,  I  became,  interested  in 
the  manner  of  its  coming.  I  find  in  the  History  of  the  Church,  that  the 
first  Twelve  who  had  been  selected  in  February  scarcely  knew  what  to 
do.    It  was  a  new  calling  to  them.    Finally  they  assembled  and  decided 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  they  would  leave  their  homes  and  set  about  to  preach  the  Gospel,  in 
accordance  with  instructions  given  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
On  March  28th,  1835,  as  they  were  about  to  leave  on  their  missions,  they 
sent  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  a  letter,  the  major  part  of  which  reads 
as  follows  ( It  is  signed  by  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  by,  their  clerks 
Orson  Hyde  and  William  E.  M'Lellin)  : 

We  feel  to  ask  of  him  whom  we  have  acknowledged  to  be  our  Prophet  and  Seer 
that  he  inquire  of  God  for  us,  and  obtain  a  revelation,  (if  consistent)  that  we  may 
look  upon  it  when  we  are  separated,  that  our  hearts  may  be  comforted.  Our  worth- 
iness has  not  inspired  us  to  make  this  request,  but  our  unworthiness.  We  have 
unitedly  asked  God  our  Heavenly  Father  to  grant  unto  us,  through  his  Seer, 
a  revelation  of  his  mind  and  will  concerning  our  duty  the  coming  season,  even  a 
great  revelation,  that  will  enlarge  our  hearts,  comfort  us  in  adversity,  and  brighten 
our  hopes  amidst  the  powers  of  darkness. 

TWO  IMPORTANT  LESSONS 

I  read  in  this  request  two  great  lessons  :  First,  if  we  want  something 
for  this  Church  and  Kingdom,  or  if  we  want  something  for  our  individual 
lives,  we  must  have  a  great,  earnest,  overpowering  desire  for  that  thing. 
We  must  reach  out  for  it,  with  full  faith  in  our  Heavenly  Father  'that  the 
gift  may  be  given  us.  Then  it  would  seem  as  if  the  Lord  himself  cannot 
resist  our  petition.  If  our  desire  is  strong  enough,  if  our  whole  will  is 
tempered  and  attuned  to  that  which  we  desire,  if  our  lives  make  us  worthy 
of  the  desired  gift,  the  Lord,  by  his  own  words,  is  bound  to  give  us  that 
which  we  desire,  in  his  own  time  and  in  his  own  manner.  These  twelve 
men,  chosen  witnesses  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  prayed  upon  their  knees 
that  a  revelation  might  be  given  to  comfort  them.  They  put  themselves 
into  this  desire  with  all  their  strength  and  they  obtained  answer  in  this 
great  revelation,  on  the  very  same  day,  from  the  mouth  of  tbe  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

There  is  yet  another  lesson,  which  I  think  we  need.  In  their  request 
the  brethren  of  the  first  Council  of  the  Twelve  said,  "We  feel  to  ask  of 
him  whom  we  have  acknowledged  to  be  our  Prophet  and  Seer :"  I  wonder 
also  if  all  of  us  do  acknowledge  our  Prophet  and  Seer  as  these  men  ac- 
know  edged  him.  They  declared  for  the  generations  to  come  that  he 
was  their  prophet  and  seer,  that  he  had  the  power  to  guide  them  and  the 
Uiurch.  1  hey  placed  themselves,  as  it  were,  at  his  disposal,  because  of  the 
inspiration  that  was  his  as  the  President  of  the  Church.  Perhaps  we  fail 
to  receive  some  revelations  in  our  day  which  are  waiting  for  us  because 
we  do  not  recognize  our  prophet  and  seer  with  the  same  deep  faith  with 
which  these  first  apostles  approached  the  prophet  of  their  day  as  they 
pleaded  with  him  and  with  the  Lord  for  a  great  revelation  to  guide  and 
comfort  them.  b 

MISSIONARY  WORK  ESTABLISHED 

,1  7?  ^T^i  th°Ught  Hngers  in  my  mind-    It  was  in  this  notable 
evelation  that  the  missionary  work  of  the  Church  was  formally  brgan- 

W  hv,wArSt  w6  111  ?is  disPensa*ion.  Missionary  work  had  been 
done  b)  tins  Church  from  the  very  beginning  of  its  existence ;  and  perhaps 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


83 


even  before  the  Church  was  organized.  But,  when  Section  107  was 
given,  missionary  work  was  formally  established ;  the  appointment  and 
definition  of  the  twelve  apostles  were  clearly  made ;  the  labors  and  func- 
tions of  the  Seventies  were  equally  clearly  set  out ;  and  missionary  work 
went  forward,  from  that  time  on,  as  never  before. 

VALUE  OF  MISSIONARY  WORK 

The  demand  that  the  Church  organize  for  missionary  work  involves 
the  indispensable  principle  of  sacrifice,  which  already  has  been  touched 
upon  here  in  this  conference.  There  is  no  progress,  no  attainment  worth 
while,  no  effort  acceptable  to  our  Heavenly  Father,  except  upon  the 
principle  of  the  giving  of  one's  self,  in  cooperation  with  the  Lord,  for  the- 
great  earth  purposes  of  the  Almighty.  What  great  results  have  come  out 
of  missionary  work !  There  is  probably  not  a  person  in  a  thousand  in  this 
great  audience  who  cannot  trace  his  pedigree  in  the  Church  back  to  the 
conversion  of  some  ancestor,  or  of  himself,  by  a  missionary  in  the  field. 
We  are  all  products  of  our  missionary  work. 

The  value  of  missionary  work  is  not  alone  in  the  spread  of  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  Gospel,  and  in  the  converts  made.  The  effects  upon  those 
engaged  in  it  are  equally  striking.  The  Council  of  the  Twelve,  during  the 
last  twelve  months,  have  been  engaged  in  a  survey  of  the  present  condition 
of  all  living,  returned  missionaries  in  the  Church.  You  stake  presidents 
and  bishops  will  remember  the  blanks  sent  out  to  you.  This  work  is  not 
quite  complete  yet.  When  finished  it  will  undoubtedly  be  published  for 
your  information.  I  have  selected  from  the  record  some  few  figures 
that  seem  eloquent  of  what  missionary  work  does  for  the  individual. 

THE  EFFECT  UPON  THE  MISSIONARY 

We  have  now  in  the  office  the  records  of  15,742'  returned  living  mis- 
sionaries, men  and  women.  Of  these,  the  stake  presidents  and  bishops 
certify  that  96  per  cent  exert  a  good  influence  among  their  fellows :  84 
per  cent  are  tithe-payers ;  86  per  cent  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom :  73  per 
cent — and  remember  that  many  of  these  returned  missionaries  are  elderly 
people,  unable  to  hold  office — are  holding  office  in  the  Church  today.  What 
is  almost  the  most  remarkable,  in  this  day  of  depression,  92  per  cent  of  all 
the  living  returned  missionaries,  are  employed.  The  8  per  cent  who  are 
not  employed,  include  the  housewives  and  the  older  people  who  are  unable 
to  work.  My  estimate  is  that  not  more  than  4  per  cent  of  our  returned 
missionaries  are  unemployed. 

I  think  these  figures  speak  for  themselves  as  to  the  good  effects 
of  missionary  labor  upon  the  missionary  himself.  True,  the  missionaries 
are  a  selected  group.  They  are  chosen  because  they  are  worthy ;  but  even 
so,  these  figures  are  really  eloquent  in  showing  that  missionary  sacrifice 
and  service  strengthen  the  man  and  fit  him  better  for  work  with  the 
Church  and  for  work  among  his  fellow  men.  Indeed,  would  a  man  be 
successful  in  life,  he  would  find  missionary  service  of  great  help  to  him. 

I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  great  revelation  of  March  28th, ' 
1835.   May  we  all  learn  to  know  it,  learn  to  understand  it,  live  in  accord- 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ance  with  it,  and  in  all  things  be  worthy  of  the  great  things  that  the  Lord 
has  given  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

_  I  humbly  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  will  direct 
me  in  the  things  that  I  have  to  say  to  you  this  afternoon. 

I  am  very  fortunate  in  having  the  association  and  the  friendship  of 
the  young  men  and  women  of  the  Church  who  have  accepted  a  call  to 
go  out  and  preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  say  I  am  fortunate, 
because  they  represent  a  very  splendid  type  of  young  people.  They 
have  good  health.  They  are  well  educated  for  their  age.  They  have 
good  morals.  They  have  an  honest  desire  in  their  hearts  to  go  out  and 
preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  plainness  and  simplicity,  and  give 
of  their  time  and  their  service  in  the  interest  of  this  great  work. 

It  is  true  that  there  are  some  exceptions,  and  those  exceptions  ought 
-  to  be  as  few  as  possible,  because  of  the  missionary  himself,  because  of 
the  Church,  because  of  investigators  and  those  who  are  friendly  toward 
us. 

The  missionary  needs  good  health,  because  this  type  of  life  is  a 
strenuous  life,  and  those  who  are  engaged  in  it  ought  to  go  out  in  as 
good  physical  condition  as  it  is  possible.  They  owe  it  to  their  mis- 
sion, they  owe  it  to  their  companion,  they  owe  it  to  those  who  are  fur- 
nishing the  means,  to  be  so  equipped  physically  that  they  will  be  able  to 
do  the  work  assigned  to  them. 

As  I  say,  the  work  is  strenuous,  and  the  mission  field  is  not  a  place 
for  invalids  or  those  who  have  chronic  ailments.  There  is  a  place  for 
such  people  at  home,  where  they  may  serve  with  greater  satisfaction  to 
themselves  and  more  helpfulness  to  the  Church,  It  is  also  our  duty  to 
keep  our  missionaries  in  good  health  when  they  are  in  the  mission  field, 
and  to  return  them  home,  as  far  as  it  is  possible,  in  good  health  and 
strength. 

It  is  true  that  our  Heavenly  Father  blesses  us  and  guides  us  and 
protects  us,  but  it  always  seems  to  me  that  our  Heavenly  Father  can  be 
relied  upon  to  protect  and  help  us  more  if  we  do  our  part  in  protecting 
ourselves.  When  missionaries  are  careless  and  do  not  give  proper  care 
to  their  bodies,  I  am  sure  that  they  cannot  be  protected  in  the  same  way 
or  to  the  degree  that  missionaries  can  who  are  careful  and  live  accord- 
ing to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

Their  education,  I  say,  is  good.  It  is  on  the  average.  They  are 
young  people,  and  as  far  as  their  youth  will  permit  they  have  gone 
through  the  schools.  We  sometimes  find  criticism  about  our  young 
peop  e  and  the  education  that  they  have,  but  as  long  as  we  send  young 
people  of  eighteen,  nineteen  or  twenty  years  of  age  we  cannot  expect 
them  to  go  out  with  college  degrees.  If  we  want  the  other  type— and  I 
think  we  do— we  will  have  to  send  missionaries  who  are  older  to  add  to 
the  splendid  type  of  young  people  whom  we  now  have. 

fhey  have  good  morals,  an  essential  thing  in  preaching  the  Gospel 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


85 


of  Jesus  Christ.  Men  and  women  cannot  go  out  unless  they  have  ob- 
served the  standards  of  the  Lord,  and  have  kept  themselves  in  a  con- 
dition that  the  Lord  can  let  his  Holy  Spirit  dwell  with  them.  Occa- 
sionally we  do  have  men  coming  into  our  Missionary  Home  who  are 
using  tobacco  and  liquor,  and  if  we  know  that  they  are  using  it  when 
they  come  into  the  Missionary  Home  I  am  sure  that  the  bishop  or  the 
parents  or  the  president  of  the  stake  cannot  use  the  excuse  that  they  did 
not  know  that  the  young  man  was  not  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

It  seems  to  me  that  after  one  hundred  years  as  a  Church  we  ought 
to  be  able  to  maintain  that  standard  with  our  people  who  preach  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Those  who  are  willing  to  try  and  make  amends, 
if  it  is  necessary,  and  show  forth  a  desire  to  live  right,  have  a  greater 
chance  of  making  good  and  having  God's  blessing  and  protection  than 
those  who  will  not  try  to  observe  the  usual  standards  that  we  have  in 
the  Church. 

Of  course,  it  is  essential  that  our  missionaries  shall  be  clean.  No 
man  and  no  woman  will  ever  receive  a  testimony,  or  will  ever  succeed, 
who  cannot  observe  the  law  of  cleanliness  in  their  lives.  If  there  should 
be  some  who  have  unfortunately  broken  this  commandment  they  must 
truly  repent.  God  cannot  bless  them  if  they  show  no  signs  of  repentance, 
nor  a  desire  to  do  the  things  he  wants  them  to  do. 

We  desire  them  to  equip  themselves  spiritually,  because  without  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  they  hamper  them- 
selves and  they  hamper  the  work.  The  reason  that  missionaries  receive 
a  testimony  so  rapidly  in  the  missionary  field  is  because  they  devote  their 
time,  their  energy,  their  thoughts  and  their  prayers  to  finding  out  about 
God  and  his  work,  and  doing  the  things  that  God  wants  them  to  do.  And 
when  they  do  that  they  receive,  almost  instantly,  a  testimony  of  the  di- 
vinity of  this  great  work. 

This  is  a  time  when  it  takes  considerable  sacrifice  on  the  part  of 
parents  and  of  the  missionaries  to  go  out  and  preach,  but  they  are  mak- 
ing good  at  it,  and  they  have  faith  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father.  A  young 
man  in  the  ITome  just  a  short  time  ago  said  to  me:  "Brother  Taylor,  I 
would  like  to  say  to  you  in  all  sincerity  that  I  am  grateful  to  my  Heav- 
enly Father,  and  I  ain  grateful  to  my  parents,  for  the  opportunity  I 
have  had  of  preaching  the  Gospel ;"  and  you  could  see  that  he  sincerely 
meant  it,  that  he  had  made  good,  and  was  glad  for  his  missionary  ex- 
perience. 

I  said  to  him :  "Your  father  and  mother  were  just  here.  They  will 
soon  be  back  again." 

He  replied :  "Then  I  think  I  will  go  downstairs  and  wait  for  them. 
I  haven't  seen  them  for  two  years." 

He  went  clown  to  his  room,  and  it  wasn't  long  before  the  father  and 
mother  came  and  went  down  to  their  boy,  and  they  were  united  again. 
I  was  glad  I  wasn't  there.  I  am  sure  it  was  too  sacred  a  thing  for  any 
one  else  to  be  present  except  the  boy  and  the  father  and  mother. 

A  father  said  to  me :  "I  am  bringing  my  daughter  to  the  Home.  I 
have  $125.00,  maybe  $150.00.  I  hope  that  will  keep  her  until  fall.  That 
is  all  I  have.    Maybe  by  then  I  will  be  able  to  earn  some  more.    I  have 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

faith  in  God."  And  then  he  said  this  thing:  "I  would  like  to  send  my 
sister's  son  on  a  mission.  He  lost  his  mother  when  he  was  a  child.  He 
is  a  good  boy  and  is  twenty  years  of  age.  I  hope  that  in  just  a  little 
while  I  will  not  only  have  enough  money  to  keep  my  girl,  but  I  will  have 
enough  money  to  send  my  sister's  boy  out  into  the  missionary  field,  be- 
cause I  want  him  to  have  the  things  that  his  mother  would  have  given 
to  him  had  she  been  alive." 

A  boy,  on  the  day  that  he  was  to  leave  for  the  train,  kept  coming  to 
the  desk  and  asking,  "Have  you  had  any  word  here  for  me?" 

I  said:  "No,  we  haven't  had  any  word." 

He  said:  "I  am  expecting  my  father.  I  haven't  seen  him  for  a 
long  while.  I  have  been  working  here  in  the  city,  and  he  lives  a  long- 
distance from  here.  When  I  wrote  and  told  him  that  I  was  going  on  a 
mission  he  said  he  would  come  to  see  me,  and  he  hasn't  come."  It  got 
later  and  later  in  the  day,  so  he  said :  "I  think  I  will  go  clown  and  get 
my  valises  and  go  to  the  train.    It  is  time  to  leave." 

When  he  was  downstairs,  over  the  telephone  came  a  long-distance 
call.  I  called  him,  and  the  father  spoke  to  him  about  his  mission.  When 
he  hung  up  the  phone  he  repeated  his  father's  words  to  me :  "I  am  sorry 
that  I  cannot  come.  I  haven't  the  money.  I  need  it  for  you.  Goodbye, 
boy,  God  bless  you." 

He  went  downstairs,  got  his  grips  and  went  to  the  station.  When 
he  left  he  said :  "My !  It  was  good  to  hear  the  voice  of  my  father." 

Such  are  the  men  and  women,  such  are  the  boys  and  girls  that  are 
going  out  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  May  the  Lord  bless 
them  and  keep  them,  bring  them  back  safely  to  us,  and  bless  us  men  and 
women  at  home,  that  we  will  do  our  part  and  fulfil  our  calling.  May 
God  be  pleased  with  us  because  of  our  love  for  him,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

I  am  grateful  beyond  my  power  to  say  for  the  privilege  that  I  have 
m  lifting  my  voice  in  the  defense  of  truth  in  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission. 

We  have  sixty-one  missionaries  in  our  mission.  They  desire  that 
I  express  to  their  parents  and  those  who  are  supporting  them,  their  grati- 
tude for  the  sacrifices  that  are  being  made  to  keep  them  in  the  ministry 
of  the  Lord,  this  in  order  that  they  can  represent  the  Church  to  the  best  of 
their  abi hty,  and  unfold  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  people 
who  are  living  in  that  land. 

They  are  doing  well.  They  are  responding  most  nobly  to  the  re- 
sponsibilities that  are  resting  upon  them.  They  are  growing  in  the  work, 
ihey  are  growing  m  testimony  and  in  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  as  it; 
has  been  restored  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
bmith.  Ihey  are  well,  happy,  and  strong.  It  is  a  joy  and  satisfaction 
to  labor  with  them,  to  feel  of  their  spirit  and  attitude  toward  this  great 
and  noble  work. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR.  87 

Those  who  have  preceded  me  in  presiding  over  the  Northwestern 
States  Mission  have  done  outstanding  work.  I  refer  particularly  to 
the  work  that  has  heen  done  by  Apostle  Melvin  J.  Ballard.  The  people 
of  that  land  refer  to  him  in  terms  of  affection;  as  also  to  those  who 
succeeded  him  in  the  presidency,  Bishop  Iverson,  President  B.  S.  Young 
and  my  immediate  predecessor,  William  R.  Sloan.  These  men  are  be- 
loved by  the  people  of  that  country  and  they  have  done  a  noble  and 
outstanding  service  for  the  Church. 

I  am  happy  to  say  that  the  people  of  the  Northwest,  as  a  rule,  are 
generous  in  their  feelings,  and  respond  to  the  Gospel  message  when  it 
is  presented  to  them.  As  a  result,  many  are  coming  into  the  Church. 
The  newspapers  also  are  generous.  They  solicit  news  items  from  day 
to  day  and  give  space  in  their  papers  that  does  credit  to  our  Church.  I 
am  grateful  to  report  these  items  for  I  feel  that  God's  work  is  increas- 
ing and  growing  stronger  and  stronger ;  also  that  the  testimony  of  these 
young  men  and  women  is  being  felt  and  understood  by  many  people  who 
are  receptive  to  the  truth. 

One  of  the  happiest  and  most  important  things  of  life  is  to  tell  and 
live  the  truth.  Never  have  I  appreciated  so  much  the  significance  of 
this  thought  as  I  do  at  the  present  time.  I  believe  that  one  of  the  finest 
things  that  you  and  I  can  have  is  a  testimony  concerning  the  divinity 
of  this  work,  and  living  the  truth  brings  into  life  this  testimony.  I  do 
not  mean  a  testimony  that  comes  to  one  upon  the  impulse  of  the  mo- 
ment, but  I  mean  a  living  and  vital  testimony  that  gives  us  a  feeling  and 
the  assurance  that  God  lives  and  that  he  answers  prayers.  I  also  think 
that  the  greatest  thought  that  one  can  have  is  a  thought  of  God.  It  de- 
velops within  us  a  spiritual  power  that  brings  us  in  close  touch  with  the 
/Unseen.  It  provides  creative  character  which,  of  course,  comes  from 
the  deep  fountains  of  spiritual  life,  and  we  find  our  deepest  service 
in  ministering  to  the  spiritual  sources  of  life. 

To  me  one  of  the  finest  heritages  that  has  come  to  us  is  that  qual- 
ity of  faith  and  testimony  exercised  by  our  pioneer  fathers  and  mothers. 
I  firmly  believe  had  it  not  been  for  this  abiding  testimony,  they  never 
would  have  reached  their  destination,  built  their  homes  and  established 
this  western  civilization.  Many  of  them,  as  we  know,  were  driven  out 
into  the  cold,  bleak  wintry  storms  and 'vast  wilderness  with  a  hope  and 
a  belief  and  a  testimony  that  God  would  protect  and  lead  them  on.  They 
read  the  right,  thought  the  right,  and  lived  the  right.  They  knew  and 
felt  this  great  work.  They  consciously  and  unconsciously  reflected  the 
very  highest  in  spiritual  life,  and  knew  the  power  in  the  statement,  "By 
their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them." 

I  wonder  sometimes  if  we  are  maintaining  the  reputation  that  these 
pioneers  established.  I  remember  going  into  the  great  Bank  of  Montreal 
in  the  city  of  Montreal,  Canada,  with  a  check  to  be  cashed.  The 
usher  of  the  bank,  seeing  me  in  the  lobby,  came  to  me.  I  handed  him 
the  check  with  the  request  that  it  be  cashed.  He  looked  at  it  and 
saw  the  name,  "Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,"  printed 
upon  the  face  of  that  check.  He  motioned  to  the  paying  teller  of  the 
bank  to  come  into  the  lobby  and  said  to  him,  "Give  Mr.  Quinney  the 


88 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


amount  of  money  that  this  check  calls  for  because  it  is  all  right."  It 
carried  the  name  of  the  Church  and  the  reputation  of  the  Church  was 
known  and  felt  by  this  gentleman.  There  was  no  question  in  the  mind 
of  this  man  as  to  the  validity  of  the  reputation  of  the  Church  or  con- 
cerning my  representation  of  the  Church  in  that  country.  As  a  conse- 
quence of  this  fact,  I  was  given  the  money  I  needed. 

"By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them"  and  the  fruits  of  this  great 
Church  are  known  everywhere  and  are  becoming  better  known.  Pre- 
judices of  the  people  are  lifting.  We  are  able  to  approach  many  in  this 
day  that  I  am  sure  a  few  years  ago  we  would  have  been  unable  to  inter- 
est in  our  work.  So  I  really  feel  that  it  is  an  honor  to  be  called  into  the 
ministry  and  unfold  to  the  best  of  my  ability  the  saving  graces  of  this 
Church. 

Our  pioneers  built  well.  There  is  no  question  in  my  mind  as  to 
whom  they  worshiped.  I  feel  that  their  conception  of  God  was  definite 
and  fixed  in  their  souls.  It  is  said  "that  poets  worship  beauty,  scientists 
worship  truth,  every  man  of  honor  worships  right.  That  is,  the  good, 
true,  and  beautiful  stand  above  us  calling  out  our  adoration,  and  all  the 
best  in  us  springs  from  our  worshipful  response  to  their  appeal.  But 
the  impulse  to  adore  is  never  fulfilled  until  we  gather  up  all  life  into 
spiritual  unity  and  bow  down  in  awe  and  joy  before  God.  That  is  adora- 
tion glorified,  worship  crowned  and  consummated.  And  the  only  God 
man  can  adore  with  awe  and  joy  is  personal.  No  impersonal  thing  is 
worshipful,  however  great  a  thing  may  be  it  still  lies  beneath  our  soul. 
No  abstract  idea  is  worshipful,  we  are  still  greater  than  any  idea  that 
we  can  hold.  Only  God,  thought  of  in  personal  terms  but  known  to  be 
greater  than  any  terms  which  human  life  can  use,  is  adorable.  Men 
have  believed  in  him  because  worship  is  man's  holiest  impulse."  So 
the  impulse  to  worship  the  true  and  the  living  God  permitted  these 
worthy  pioneers  to  come  into  this  land  where  they  could  give  vent  to 
their  feelings  and  glorify  God.  As  a  result,  and  as  above  stated,  they 
have  left  for  us,  it  seems  to  me,  our  finest  heritage,  that  of  a  testimony 
of  the  divinity  and  truth  of  this  work. 

I  want  to  leave  with  you  my  humble  testimony,  that  I,  too,  know 
that  God  lives,  that  he  answers  prayers,  that  he  used  Joseph  Smith  as 
an  instrumentality  through  which  to  restore  the  saving  graces  of  his 
Gospel.  I  pray  God  to  bless  us  with  an  increased  and  abiding  testimony, 
with  a  full  appreciation  that  we  are  engaged  in  his  work,  that  it  is  fine, 
that  it  is  good,  that  it  is  satisfying,  and  that  it  is  true,  and  may  we  be 
thankful  that  we  are  privileged  to  bear  this  message  of  testimony  from 
time  to  time  to  the  convincing  of  many  souls  to  a  knowledge  of  God  and 
his  truth,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  Manti  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Inflammatus,"  solo  by  Mildred 
Jensen. 

Elder  Thomas  W.  Richards,  President  of  the  Malad  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  9:30  Sunday  morning,  April  7. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 
Sunday  morning,  April  7. 

The  public  were  invited  to  witness  the  nation-wide  broadcast  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ,  which  preceded  the  fifth  session  of  the 
General  Conference,  beginning  at  9:30  and  continuing  until  10:15.  The 
doors  of  the  Tabernacle  were  closed  at  9:20  and  remained  closed  until 
the  completion  of  this  45  minute  broadcast. 

When  the  time  arrived  for  commencing  this  program  the  Taber- 
nacle auditorium  and  galleries  were  crowded,  every  available  space  being 
occupied.  Amplifying  equipment  having  been  installed  on  the  Taber- 
nacle grounds  and  in  the  large  Assembly  Hall  on  the  Temple  Block, 
thousands  of  people  assembled  on  the  grounds  and  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
where  they  listened  to  the  musical  program  and  the  proceedings  of  the 
Conference  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  following  program  of  choral  and  organ  music  was  broadcast  by 
radio  throughout  the  United  States  and  Canada,  over  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System,  originating  over  Station  KSL : 

"The  Heavens  Resound"  (Beethoven) — Choir. 

"The  Lost  Chord"  (Sullivan) — Organ. 

"For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills"  (Stephens)— Choir. 

"Toccata  in  F"  (Widor) — Organ. 

"Easter  Music"  (Stephens) — Choir  and  Mrs.  Edith  G.  Young. 

"Unfold  Ye  Portals"  (Gounod)— Choir. 

"Swing  Low,  Sweet  Chariot" — Organ. 

"The  Morning  Breaks"  (Careless) — Choir. 

"Meditation"  (Grieg) — Organ. 

"Rise  Up,  Arise"  (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  conducted  by  Professor  Anthony  C. 
Lund.  Organ  accompaniments  and  organ  solo  presentations  were  played 
by  Frank  Asper. 

Following  this  broadcast,  Elder  Wilford  W.  Warnick,  President  of 
the  Timpanogos  Stake,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  common  with  you  I  have  enjoyed  the 
quiet,  the  peace,  and  the  hope  of  this  conference.  It  is  my  earnest  prayer 
— which  I  hope  shall  be  fortified  by  yours — that  I  may  say  nothing  today 
which  will  mar  that  spirit,  but  on  the  contrary  will  help  to  build  it  up. 

TRIBUTE  AND  COUNSEL  TO  CHOIR 

I  should  like  again  to  pay  tribute  to  the  beautiful  music  which  we 
have  had  during  this  conference — the  Singing  Mothers,  the  Manti  Choir, 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Hawaiian  Chorus,  and  now  this  morning  our  wonderful  Tabernacle 
Choir.  I  can  assure  you  that  perhaps  nothing  we  have  ever  done  in  the 
Church  has  been  more  effective  in  bringing  before  the  people  of  the 
world  a  message  of  peace,  of  good  will,  of  faith,  and  of  hope,  than  the 
work  of  this  choir.  They,  combined  with  the  organ,  speak  with  a  spirit- 
ual authority  which  is  felt  by  all  of  those  who  listen;  and  I  am  sure 
you  pray  with  me  that  their  work  may  be  continued,  that  their  ardor  may 
be  increased,  but  above  and  beyond  all  that  individually  and  collectively 
their  spirituality  shall  be  built  up.  Because  I  wish  to  tell  them — and  to 
tell  you — that  their  message  will  travel  to  the  ends  of  the  earth,  as  the 
Lord  designs  it,  only  if  they  shall  live  in  accordance  with  the  laws  and 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel.  It  need  not  be  thought  by  any  of  them  that 
he  is  but  one  of  a  number,  and  therefore  his  life  does  not  count ;  they 
live  under  as  strict  a  law  as  the  old  laws  of  Moses,  where  the  ills  of  one 
were  visited  upon  the  whole  body. 

So,  to  each  and  every  one  of  them  I  lend  not  only  encouragement, 
but  I  give  to  them  a  word  of  advice  and  caution :  They  must  live  in 
accordance  with  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  if  they  are  to  perform  the 
mission  to  which  they  are  called. 

SUSTAINING  GOVERNMENTS  AND  LAWS  A  FUNDAMENTAL  PRECEPT 

I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  speak  upon  a  matter  than  which 
nothing  is.  nearer  to  my  heart  in  this  world.  I  want  to  speak  of  it  in 
soberness,  in  sincerity,  and  with  all  the  earnestness  I  can  command.  The 
matter  about  which  I  wish  to  speak  is  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States,  and  the  Government  provided  for  and  set  up  under  it. 

The  Twelfth  Article  of  Faith  reads : 

We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers,  and  magistrates,  in 
obeying,  bonoring,  and  sustaining  the  law. 

That  is  one  of  the  fundamental  precepts  of  our  faith. 

GOVERNMENTS  INSTITUTED  OF  GOD 

At  a  general  assembly  held  in  Kirtland  on  August  17,  1835,  the 
Saints  adopted  a  series  of  statements  regarding  human  government. 
They  are  wise  and  as  far-reaching  as  the  Articles  of  Faith  themselves, 
and  I  wish  to  read  some  of  the  paragraphs  therefrom.  They  were  given 
after  the  mobbings,  the  plunderings,  the  assassinations  of  and  part  of 
our  experiences  in  Missouri.  They  were  uttered  by  a  people,  who, 
judged  by  human  standards,  had  every  reason  to  feel  that  their  govern- 
ment had  failed,  and  that  they  might  not  hopefully  and  successfully  look 
thereto  for  their  protection.  The  first  paragraph  of  that  Declaration 
(Section  134)  reads  as  follows: 

We  believe,,  bat  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit  of  man.  .  .  . 

ACCOUNTABLE  TO  THE  LORD 

Thus  is'cleclared  in  this  first  clause  the  origin  of  human  government. 
The  paragraph  continues : 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  91 


and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation  to  them.  .  .  . 

Therefore,  every  man  who  takes  on  a  responsibility  by  virtue  of 
assuming  office  in  worldly  government,  is  responsible  to  the  Lord"  him- 
self for  the  way  in  which  he  carries  it  out.  I  am  sure  there  is  here  some- 
thing to  give  pause  to  every  Latter-day  Saint  who  seeks  the  franchise  of 
his  fellow  citizens  in  order  that  he  may  rule  over  them.  This  paragraph 
continues : 

both  in  making  laws  and  administering  them,  for  the  good  and  safety  of 
society. 

So  that,  whether  a  man  takes  office* in  the  legislature,  or  in  the 
executive  branch  of  government,  or  in  the  judicial  branch,  he  becomes, 
by  virtue  of  that  assumption  of  office,  responsible  to  the  Lord  himself 
under  the  decrees  of  this  Church. 

Paragraph  No.  2. reads: 

We  believe  that  no  government  can  exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws  are  framed 
and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each  individual.  ... 

And  I  ask  you  to  note  the  declaration  which  now  follows  these 
words,  a  declaration,  I  repeat,  made  after  the  mobbings  and  plunderings 
of  Missouri,  when  apparently  government  had  failed.  A  declaration 
made  after  the  people  had  tried  the  United  Order  and  had  not  been  able 
to  live  up  to  it,  made  after  they  had  been  rocked  and  torn  by' hardships 
and  persecutions,  against  which  they  should  have  been  protected.  The 
]  laragraph  continues : 

will  secure  to  each  individual,  the  free  exercise  of  conscience,  the  right  and 
control  of  property,  and  the  protection  of  life. 

These  are  the  great  basic  elements  of  free,  ordered  society  and  gov- 
ernment. 

TWO  DECLARATIONS  OF  EQUAL  WISDOM 

May  I  place  here  alongside  this  Declaration  of  our  own  people,  that 
well-known  and  inspired  utterance  of  those  who  framed  the  Declaration 
of  Independence: 

We  hold  these  truths  to  be  self-evident  that  all  men  are  created  equal,  that  they 
are  endowed  by  their  Creator  with  certain  inalienable  rights ;  that  among  these  arc 
life,  liberty  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness.  That  to  secure  these  rights  governments 
are  instituted  among  men,  deriving  their  just  powers  from  the  consent  of  the 
governed. 

These  two  great  declarations,  the  one  of  the  Church  and  the  other 
of  the  fathers  of  our  country,  stand  side  by  side,  equal  in  their  wisdom 
and  in  their  present  timeliness.  Each  was  born  of  oppression  and  per- 
secution. 

FREEDOM  OF  WORSHIP 

The  4th  paragraph  of  that  Declaration  adopted  at  Kirtland  reads 
as  follows : 

We  believe  that  religion  is  instituted  of  God;  and  that  men  .re  amenable  to 
him,  and  to  him  only,  for  the  exercise  of  it,  unless  their  religious  opinions  prompt 
them  to  infringe  upon  the  rights  and  liberties  of  others. 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


That,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  fundamental  with  us.  We  arc 
universal  in  our  tolerance  and  in  our  respect  for  the  opinions  of  others. 
We  feel  we  may  rightfully  ask  for  the  same  consideration  for  ourselves. 
This  also  was  announced  in  our  Articles  of  Faith,  the  eleventh  article 
reading : 

We  claim  the  privilege  of.  worshiping  Almighty  God  according  to  the  dictates 
of  our  own  conscience  and  allow  all  men  the  same  privilege,  let  them  worship  how, 
where,  or  what  they  may. 

The  final  clauses  of  the  fourth  paragraph  of  the  Declaration  read: 

But  we  do  not  believe  that  human  law  has  the  right  to  interfere  in  prescribing 
rules  of  worship  to  bind  the  consciences  of  men,  nor  dictate  forms  for  public  or 
private  devotion :  that  the  civil  magistrates  should  restrain  crime  but  never  control 
conscience;  should  punish  guilt,  but  never  suppress  the  freedom  of  the  soul. 

I  will  ask  you  to  carry  those  last  clauses  in  your  mind  until  I  reach 
a  later  portion  of  what  I  hope  to  say. 

WORLD-WIDE  CHURCH 

The  5th  paragraph  of  this  great  Declaration  reads  as  follows : 
We  believe  that  all  men  are  bound  to  sustain  and  uphold  the  respective  govern- 
ments in  which  they  reside,  while  protected  in  their  inherent  and  inalienable  rights 
by  the  laws  of  such  governments.  .  .  . 

In  that  Declaration  the  Church  visualized  not  alone  an  existence 
here  in  the  United  States  of  America,  but  it  visualized  an  existence  in 
all  parts  of  the  world,  as  the  Church  has  grown  to  be  and  to  exist,  and 
it  laid  down  the  rule  of  conduct  by  which  all  Latter-day  Saints  should 
be  guided,  no  matter  where  they  live  or  to  what  flag  they  owe  allegiance. 
Thus  the  Church  visualized  its  great  destiny— a  world-wide  Church 
among  all  nations. 

PERSONAL  AND  PROPERTY  RIGHTS  PROTECTED 

This  paragraph  continues: 

And  that  all  governments  have  a  right  to  enact  such  laws  as  in  their  own 
judgments  are  best  calculated  to  secure  the  public  interest;  at  the  same  time, 
however,  holding  sacred  the  freedom  of  conscience. 

I  ask  you  to  hold  in  mind  that  sentiment  and  that  principle  also. 
I  shall  read  only  one  more  of  the  twelve  paragraphs  of  the  Declara- 
tion; I  now  read  the  11th  paragraph: 

We  believe  that  men  should  appeal  to  the  civil  law  for  redress  of  all  wrongs 
and  grievances,  where  personal  abuse  is>  inflicted  or  the  right  of  property  or  char- 
acter infringed,  where  such  laws  exist  as  will  protect  the  same  ;  but  we  believe 
(hat  all  men  are  justified  in  defending  themselves,  their  friends,  and  property, 
and  the  government,  from  the  unlawful  assaults  and  encroachments  of  all  persons 
in  times  of  exigency,  where  immediate  appeal  cannot  be  made  to  the  laws,  and  relief 
n  frorded. 

The  foregoing  were  the  declarations  of  this  people  on  the  principles 
underlying  human  government ;  this  people  still  adheres  to  these  prin- 
ciples. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


93 


LOYALTY  TO  RULE  OF  LAW 

I  pass  now  to  the  divine  word  regarding  our  own  government. 

While  the  Saints  were  still  undergoing  suffering  in  Missouri,  and 
after  they  had  suffered  much  from  the  mobs  who  were  driving  them 
from  their  homes,  and  mis-treating  and  mal-treating  them,  the  Lord  gave 
a  revelation  to  the  Church,  in  the  course  of  which  he  said  (I  am  reading 
from  Section  101  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants)  : 

And  again  I  say  unto  you,  those  who  have  been  scattered  by  their  enemies 
it  is  my  will  that  they  should  continue  to  importune  for  redress,  and  redemption' 
by  the  hands  of  those  who  are  placed  as  rulers  and  are  in  authority  over  you— 

Notwithstanding  all  their  sufferings,  the  Lord  directs  that  they  shall 
still  have  a  loyalty  to  the  rule  of  law.   The  revelation  continues : 

According  to  the  laws  and  constitution  of  the  people,  which  I  have  suffered 
to  be  established,  and  should  be  maintained  for  the  rights  and  protection  of  all 
ilesh,  according  to  just  and  holy  principles; 

That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine  and  principle  pertaining  to  futurity,  accord- 
ing to  the  moral  agency  which  I  have  given  unto  him  .  .  . 

DIVINE  WORD  REGARDING  HUMAN  GOVERNMENT 

The  Lord  is  here  declaring  the  scope  and  fundamental  principle  of 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States : 

That  every  man  may  be  accountable  for  his  own  sins  in  the  day  of  judgment. 
Therefore  it  is  not  right  that  any  man  should  be  in  bondage  one  to  another. 
And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established  the  Constitution  of  this  land  by  the 
hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose. 

To  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  statement  of  the  Lord,  "I  have 
established  the  Constitution  of  this  land,"  puts  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  in  the  position  in  which  it  would  be  if  it  were  written  in 
this  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  itself.  This  makes  the  Constitu- 
tion the  word  of  the  Lord  to  us.  That  it  was  given,  not  by  oral  utter- 
ance, but  by  the  operation  of  his  mind  and  spirit  upon  the  minds  of  men, 
inspiring  them  to  the  working  out  of  this  great  document  of  human  gov- 
ernment, does  not  alter  its  authority. 

RELIGION  AND  THE  CONSTITUTION 

The  first  Congress  of  the  United  States,  when  it  began  to  consider 
the  operations  of  the  government  under  the  Constitution,  became  im- 
pressed that  there  was  not  in  that  document,  as  originally  drawn,  any 
so-called  Bill  of  Rights ;  there  were  in  the  document  no  provisions  which 
should  keep  the  people  free,  which  should  protect  them  in  their  daily 
lives,  nor  guarantee  to  them  the  great  liberties  which  the  Declaration  of 
Independence  declared  were  the  heritage  of  men.  Accordingly  this  Con- 
gress proposed  to  the  original  states  the  first  ten  amendments  to  the 
Constitution,  and  it  is  significant,  I  am  sure,  of  the  influence  which  the 
Lord  was  at  that  time  bringing  to  bear  upon  the  minds  of  men,  that  the 
very  first  clause  of  the  very  first  amendment  declared : 

..  .  Congress  shall  make  no  law  respecting  an  establishment  of  religion  or  pro- 
hibiting the  free  exercise  thereof. 


94 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


Thus  the  very  first  thing  which  our  fathers  sought  to  secure  for 
themselves  and  for  their  posterity  was  freedom  to  worship  as  they 
wished.  I  do  not  need  to  call  to  your  minds  the  trials  and  persecution 
which  this  people  have  suffered  in  the  past,  in  order  to  bring  home  to 
you  the  conviction  that  nothing  else  in  the  great  document,  the  Consti- 
tution, is  so  important  to  this  people  as  is  this  guarantee  of  religious 
freedom,  because  underneath  and  behind  all  that  lies  in  our  lives,  all 
that  we  do  in  our  lives,  is  our  religion,  our  worship,  our  belief  and  faith 
in  God.  We  need  the  Constitution  and  its  guarantees  of  liberty  and 
freedom  more  than  any  other  people  in  the  world,  for,  few  and  weak 
as  we  are,  we  stand  naked  and  helpless  except  when  clothed  with  its 
benign  provisions. 

ENDEAVORING  TO  ESTABLISH  MODERN  PAGANISM 

So  well  known  is  this,  so  thoroughly  is  it  understood  that  the  dic- 
tators of  the  world  are  now  seeking  to  take  hold  of  the  religion  of  the 
people  over  whom  they  rule.  They  are  doing  away,  or  trying  to,  with 
the  churches  of  Christianity.  They  are  trying  to  establish,  even  in  great 
and  progressive  nations,  a  modern  paganism.  That  can  never  be  done 
under  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  and  that  is  why  its  pro- 
tection and  preservation  come  to  us  as  one  of  the  most  vital  duties  we 
can  have  in  life. 

FUNDAMENTALS  OF  CONSTITUTION  GOD-GIVEN 

One  of  the  most  important  things  that  we  can  do  for  the  Church  is 
to  stand  behind  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  That  does  not 
mean,  and  no  reasoning  person  would  suppose  that  it  meant,  that  that 
Constitution  may  not  from  time  to  time  be  changed  as  the  needs  of  the 
people  would  seem  to  require.  But  it  does  mean  that  that  Constitution 
should  be  changed  only  under  the  urge  of  great  necessity,  and  then  only 
in  accordance  with  its  great  underlying  concepts.  It  does  mean  that 
the  great  fundamental  elements  of  the  Constitution  are  God-given,  for 
he  said  so.  It  does  mean  to  me  as  an  individual  that  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States  and  my  adherence  to  it  and  support  of  it  is  a  part  of 
my  religion. 

I  have  about  the  Constitution  that  same  sort  of  conviction  that  I 
have  about  the  other  doctrines  that  we  are  taught,  for  I  believe  its  pre- 
cepts are  among  the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  and  I  believe  that  the  Lord 
will  change  and  modify  from  time  to  time  those  details  of  its  provisions 
which  are  ancilliary  to  its  great  principles ;  he  will  cause  us — those  who 
live  under  it — to  modify  it  in  accordance  with  our  needs;  but  the  funda- 
mental principles  of  it  we  may  not  sacrifice. 

ELEMENTAL  PRINCIPLES  OF  CONSTITUTION 

We  may  not  abrogate  the  great  principles  that  the  majority  must 
rule ;  that  we  shall  live  under  a  written  Constitution ;  that  we  shall  be 
governed  by  people  chosen  by  the  free,  untrammeled,  and  uncompelled 
will  of  the  people;  that  there  shall  be  an  absolute  guarantee  of  our  per- 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


95 


sonal  liberties,  as  also  of  our  rights  to  property,  and  to  the  protection 
therefor;  that  there  shall  continue  freedom  of  speech,  freedom  of  the 
press,  and  freedom  of  religion ;  that  the  punishment  of  common  crime 
and  misdemeanors  shall  remain  the  function  of  state,  county  and  muni- 
cipal government ;  that  there  shall  be  three  great  and  wholly  independent 
branches  of  government— the  executive,  the  legislative,  and  the  judicial; 
that  the  determination  of  the  constitutionality  of  legislative  acts  shall 
continue  in  the  judiciary;  that  no  power  shall  exist  in  one  branch  of 
government  to  delegate  its  power  and  authority  to  another;  that  the 
rights  and  power  of  the  executive  branch  of  the  government  shall  con- 
tinue to  be  merely  that  of  executing  the  law ;  that  the  federal  govern- 
ment shall  continue  to  guarantee  to  every  state  a  republican  form  of 
government.  If  time  permitted  I  could  mention  other  principles  of  like 
importance  to  these. 

NO  DICTATORSHIP  IN  AMERICA 

A  proper  understanding  of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
makes  clear  that,  under  it,  there  is  no  room  in  America  for  a  dictator- 
ship. There  are  those  in  subordinate  positions  in  government,  there  are 
those  among  us,  citizens  of  this  country,  who  are  looking  forward  to 
some  sort  of  overturning  which  would  make  opportunity  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  some  other  sort  of  government  than  that  provided  by  our 
Constitution.  It  is  my  faith  and  belief  that  these  overtures,  these  revo- 
lutionists, are  but  few,  but  they  are  attacking  the  citadel  of  our  liberties, 
they  are  attacking  the  guarantee  of  the  freedom  of  our  worship,  and 
the  Latter-day  Saints  can  not  be  numbered  among  them. 

IN  NEED  OF  CONVICTIONS 

Convictions  are  the  great  need  of  the  people  of  the  world  today. 
Men  need  to  be  convinced  of  something.  They  need  religious  convic- 
tions, and  it  is  not,  in  the  first  instance  so  important  what  those  con- 
victions may  be,  looking  to  the  peace  and  ordered  condition  of  the  world. 
1  he  people  of  the  world  need  convictions  regarding  righteousness  in  civic 
and  political  life ;  they  need  convictions  on  the  eternal  verities  of  right 
and  wrong.  Great  masses  of  people  everywhere  in  the  world  are  wan- 
dering aimlessly  in  their  religious,  in  their  intellectual,  in  their  social, 
and  in  their  civic  lives,  without  any  guiding  principles ;  "every  wind  of 
doctrine"  strains  the  moorings  that  have  held  them  for  generations. 

This  must  be  changed. 

OUR  OPPORTUNITY  AND  MISSION 

This  great  audience  is  a  demonstration  that  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  there  still  remain  convictions  in  all  of  the  fields  of  human  en- 
deavor and  activity  which  I  have  named.  It  is  our  opportunity  to  make 
of  these  convictions  our  glory.  It  is  our  opportunity  and  our  duty  to 
make  of  these  the  leaven  that  "leaveneth  the  whole  lump."  In  so  far  as 
we  fail  to  do  this,  we  shall  fail  in  the  mission  which  the  Lord  gave  to  us, 
and  shall  not  reach  the  destiny  which  he  has  set  for  us. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  nation  of  ours  has  a  record  of  achieve- 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ment  behind  it  that  we  may  not  lightly  cast  aside,  for  it  is  builded  upon 
the  experiences  of  men  during  the  ages  that  are  past.  Consider  our 
growth  and  our  development,  consider  what  we  are,  consider  how  we 
have  come  to  be  what  we  are,  contemplate  this  government  of  ours,  this 
heritage  which  our  fathers  bought  with  their  lives  and  bequeathed  to 
us,  and  then  do  not  lightly  thrust  aside  the  great  fundamentals  of  our 
national  life  for  something  yet  untried. 

May  the  Lord  be  with  us  at  all  times,  under  all  circumstances ;  may 
he  bring  into  our  lives  a  burning  desire  to  uphold  the  Constitution,  a 
living  faith  in  its  inspired  origin,  that  we  may  always  be  found  among 
those  who  shall  support  it  to  the  last  breath.  May  God  give  us  this  I  ask 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

We  know  that  there  is  a  God  in  heaven,  who  is  infinite  and  eternal,  from 
everlasting  to  everlasting  the  same  unchangeable  God,  the  framer  of  heaven  and 
earth,  and  all  things  which  are  in  them; 

And  that  he  created  man,  male  and  female,  after  his  own  image  and  in  his  own 
likeness,  created  he  them ; 

And  gave  unto  them  commandments  that  they  should  love  and  serve  him  the 
only  living  and  true  God,  and  that  he  should  be  the  only  being  whom  they  should 
worship. 

But  by  the  transgression  of  these  holy  laws  man  became  sensual  and  devilish 
and  became  fallen  man— (Doc.  and  Cov.  20:17-20.) 

MEANING  OF  CIVILIZATION 

A  few  weeks  past  a  distinguished  author  and  lecturer  spoke  in  this 
city,  before  a  certain  group,  on  the  question  whether  or  not  our  civilization 
is  to  endure.  This  is  a  question  today  troubling 'the  wise  men  in  the 
nations.  Perhaps  I  do  not  know  just  what  this  term  means.  I  know 
what  the  dictionary  says ;  that  civilization  is  a  state  of  social  and  religious 
culture  characterized  by  relative  progress  in  the  arts,  science  and  state- 
craft, and  also  in  spiritual  advancement. 

There  can  be  no  true,  perfect  civilization  where  there  is  not  faithful 
obedience  to  the  commandments  of  God.  When  the  dictionary  says  that 
civilization  is  relative  progress,  it  may  mean— I  do  not  know— that  there 
has  been  a  gradual  progression  in  matters  of  civilization  from  the  begin- 
ning of  time  until  now.  If  that  is  the  meaning,  then  I  cannot  accept  it 
as  an  historical  truth. 

I  sincerely  believe,  and  for  that  reason  I  have  read  these  words  from 
the  revelation  given  at  the  organization  of  the  Church,  that  in  the  begin- 
ning God  established  a  perfect  civilization,  for  he  gave  to  man  his  laws 
and  called  upon  him  to  obey  his  commandments.  But  as  we  know  and 
as  the  Lord  declares  in  what  I  have  read,  man  transgressed  these  divine 
laws,  refused  to  hearken  unto  these  commandments,  departed  from  the 
ways  of  the  Lord,  and  became  sensual,  devilish  and  fallen  man.   That  is 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


97 


the  condition  in  which  this  world  finds  itself  today,  and  the  condition  in 
which  it  has  found  itself  since  the  fall  of  man. 

Civilizations,  so-called,  have  risen  and  have  fallen  again,  and  strange 
to  say,  without  exception  it  has  been  at  the  time  of  their  greatest  culture, 
their  greatest  progress  in  arts,  in  science  and  statecraft,  when  the  crumb- 
ling began.  We  have  before  us  the  history  of  Egypt,  of  Assyria,  Babylon, 
Greece,  Rome,  and  other  nations  of  the  past,  the  glory  of  which  has 
departed,  each  in  turn.  We  cannot  say  that  their  civilization  was  not 
great,  as  civilization  is  usually  measured  by  fallen  man,  for  these  nations 
have  left  their  stamp  upon  the  modern  world,  and  especially  so>  is  this 
true  of  the  great  nation  of  Greece,  when  it  comes  to  the  arts  and  some 
of  the  sciences,  and  yet  the  glory  and  the  grandeur  of  that  nation,  like 
others,  through  the  transgression  of 'divine  laws,  have  passed  away. 

FUNDAMENTAL  THINGS  ENDURING 

Now,  I  would  not  for  a  moment  have  it  understood  that  anything 
that  I  have  in  mind  to  say  will  be  in  conflict  with  anything  that  we  have 
heard  at  this  conference.  I  have  no  such  intention,  no  such  thought,  nor 
do  I  believe  that  to  be  the  case,  for  I  believe  that  the  fundamental  things 
in  our  government,  in  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  are  here  to 
endure.  Moreover,  I  believe  that  it  is  the  business  and  responsibility  of 
Latter-day  Saints  to  uphold  and  sustain  these  sacred  principles  which 
bear  the  stamp  of  approval  of  God  himself,  and  we  should  be  loyal  unto 
them.  I  am,  however,  going  to  say  this,  boldly— The  present  world 
civilization  shall  not  endure,  for  God  has  said  it:  It  is  bound  to  pass  away. 
May  I  also  say  I  care  not  how  soon  that  comes. 

THE  DECREE  OF  THE  LORD  CONCERNING  THE  WICKED 

When  I  say  this,  do  not  misunderstand  me.  I  do  not  say  nor  believe 
that  things  which  are  good  will  pass  away,  but  because  man  has  become 
sensual,  devilish  and  fallen  man,  and  because  he  will  not  hearken  to  the 
voice  of  inspiration  and  revelation  from  God,  and  walk  in  righteousness, 
keeping  his  commandments,  the  decree  has  gone  forth  that  all  man-made 
covenants,  obligations  and  governments  shall  be  changed  and  come  to  an 
end.  Of  course,  I  can  only  treat  this  theme  briefly,  but  I  desire  to  read 
to  you  a  few  of  the  words  the  Lord  has  given  for  our  guidance  in  the 
dispensation  in  which  we  live.  Let  me  read,  beginning  in  the  revelation 
where  Elder  Wilford  W.  Richards  left  off  yesterday : 

And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my  dis- 
ciples, whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days. 

And  they"  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I,  the  Lord,  have  com- 
manded them.  .  .  . 

Wherefore,  fear  and  tremble  O  ye  people,  for  what  I  the  Lord  have  decreed  in 
them  shall  be  fulfilled. 

And  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  they  who  go  forth,  bearing  these  tidings 
unto  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  to  them  is  power  given  to  seal  both  on  earth  and 
in  heaven,  the  unbelieving  and  rebellious ; 

Yea,,  verily,  to  seal  them  up  unto  the  day  when  the  wrath  of  God  shall  be 
poured  out  upon  the  wicked  without  measure — 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Unto  the  day  when  the  Lord  shall  come  to  recompense  unto  every  man  accord- 
ing to  his  work,  and  measure  to  every  man  according  to  the  measure  which  he  has 
measured  to  his  fellow  man. 

Wherefore  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  that  all  that 
will  hear  may  hear : 

Prepare  ye,  prepare  ye  for  that  which  is  to  come,  for  the  Lord  is  nigh ; 

And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  is  kindled,  and  his  sword  is  bathed  in  heaven,  and 
it  shall  fall  upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

And  the  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed;  and  the  day  cometh  that  they  who 
will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  his  servants,  neither  give 
heed  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles,  shall  be  cut  off  from  among  the 
people. 

I  was  asked,  not  long  ago,  if  I  could  tell  when  the  Lord  would  come. 
I  answered  "Yes,"  and  I  answer  "Yes"  now.  I  know  when  he  will  come. 
He  will  come  tomorrow.  We  have  his  word  for  it.   Let  me  read  it : 

Behold,  now  it  is  called  today  until  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man,  and  verily 
it  is  a  day  of  sacrifice,  and  a  day  for  the  tithing  of  my  people;  for  he  that  is  tithed 
shall  not  be  burned  at  his  coming. 

Now,  there  is  a  discourse  sufficient  on  tithing. 

For  after  today  cometh  the  burning— this  is  speaking  after  the  manner  of  the 
Lord— for  verily  1  say,  tomorrow  all  the  proud  and  they  that  do  wickedly  shall 
be  as  stubble ;  and  I  will  burn  them  up,  for  I  am  the  Lord  of  Hosts ;  and  I  will  not 
spare  any  that  remain  in  Babylon. 

THE  GREAT  DAY  OF  THE  LORD  NIGH 

So  the  Lord  is  coming,  I  say,  tomorrow.  Then  let  us  be  prepared. 
Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney  used  to  write  about  the  "Saturday  Evening  of 
Time."  We  are  living  in  the  "Saturday  Evening  of  Time."  This  is  the 
sixth  day  now  drawing  to  its  close.  When  the  Lord  says  it  is  today  until 
his  coming,  that,  I  think,  is  what  he  has  in  mind,  for  he  shall  come  in  the 
morning  of  the  Sabbath,  or  seventh  day  of  the  earth's  temporal  existence, 
to  inaugurate  the  millennial  reign  and  to  take  his  rightful  place  as  King 
of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords,  to  rule  and  reign  upon  the  earth,  as  it  is  his 
right. 

Satan  has  usurped  power  and  authority  from  the  beginning,  and  men 
have  followed  him,  as  the  Lord  declares  in  that  which  I  have  read  to  you ; 
ibut  his  day  is  drawing  to  its  close,  and  the  day,  as  we  frequently  sing, 
is  dawning  for  Israel,  for  Zion,  for  the  universal  establishment  of  truth! 
when  the  earth  shall  be  cleansed  of  all  impurity,  all  wickedness,  for  when 
Christ  comes  that  which  is  wicked  cannot  remain. 

Again  I  read : 

Hearken  ye,  for,  behold,  the  great  day  of  the  Lord  is  nigh  at  hand. 

For  the  day  cometh  that  the  Lord  shall  utter  his  voice  out  of  heaven-  the 
heavens  shall  shake  and  the  earth  shall  tremble,  and  the  trump  of  God  shall  sound 
both  long  and  loud,  and  shall  say  to  the  sleeping  nations  :  Ye  saints  arise  and  live  ■ 
ye  sinners  stay  and  sleep  until  I  shall  call  again. 

Wherefore  gird  up  your  loins  lest  ye  be  found  among  the  wicked. 

Lift  up  your  voices  and  spare  not.    Call  upon  the  nations  to*repent,  both  old 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


99 


and  young,  both  bond  and  free,  saying :  Prepare  yourselves  for  the  great  day  of  the 
Lord ; 

For  if  I,  who  am  a  man,  do  lift  up  my  voice  and  call  upon  you  to  repent, 
and  ye  hate  me,  what  will  ye  say  when  the  day  cometh  when  the  thunders  shall 
utter  their  voices  from  the  ends  of  the  earth,  speaking  to  the  ears  of  all  that  live, 
saying — Repent  and  prepare  for  the  great  day  of  the  Lord? 

Yea,  and  again,  when  the  lightnings  shall  streak  forth  from  the  east  unto  the 
west,  and  shall  utter  forth  their  voices  unto  all  that  live,  and  make  the  ears  of  all 
tingle  that  hear,  saying  these  words— Repent  ye,  for  the  great  day  of  the  Lord  is 
come? 

And  again,  the  Lord  shall  utter  his  voice  out  of  heaven,  saying :  Hearken,  O 
ye  nations  of  the  earth,  and  hear  the  words  of  that  God  who  made  you. 

0  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  you  together 
as  a  hen  gather eth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  but  ye  would  not ! 

How  oft  have  I  called  upon  you  by  the  mouth  of  my  servants,  and  by  the 
ministering  of  angels,  and  by  mine  own  voice,  and  by  the  voice  of  thunderings, 
and  by  the  voice  of  lightnings,  and  by  the  voice  of  tempests,  and  by  the  voice  of 
earthquakes,  and  great  hailstorms,  and  by  the  voice  of  famines  and  pestilences  of 
every  kind,  and  by  the  great  sound  of  a  trump,  and  by  the  voice  of  judgment,  and 
by  the  voice  of  mercy  all  the  day  long,  and  by  the  voice  of  glory  and  honor  and 
the  riches  of  eternal  life,  and  would  have  saved  you  with  an  everlasting  salvation, 
but  ye  would  not ! 

Behold,  the  day  has  come,  when  the  cup  of  the  wrath  of  mine  indignation  is 

full. 

Behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  these  are  the  words  of  the  Lord  your  God. 

In  that  great  revelation  on  war,  (section  87)  the  Lord  has  told  us 
that  beginning  with  the  rebellion  of  South  Carolina  great  destructions 
would  come,  and  they  would  continue  to  be  poured  out  upon  the  earth 
until  the  time  should  come  when  the  decrees  of  God  would  be  fully 
consummated,  finished,  and  he  would  make  an  end  of  all  nations.  I  look 
for  that  to  be  fulfilled  and  Christ  will  come  to  reign ;  his  kingdom  will  be 
established  on  earth  as  in  heaven,  as  he  has  taught  us  to  pray:  "Our 
Father  who  art  in  heaven,  Hallowed  be  thy  name:  Thy  kingdom  come. 
Thy  will  be  done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven."  I  pray  for  that  time  to 
come. 

1  plead  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  stand  firm  and  faithful  in  the 
discharge  of  every  duty,  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  honor- 
ing the  priesthood,  that  we  may  stand  when  the  Lord  comes, — whether 
we  be  living  or  dead,  it  matters  not, — to  be  partakers  of  this  glory. 
Remember,  when  this  time  comes  this  earth  is  to  be  cleansed  of  its  un- 
righteousness, and  the  wicked  shall  be  as  stubble  and  shall  pass  away. 

.     TRUE  CIVILIZATION 

Just  one  more  thought :  Do  you  think  that  if  we  were  truly  civilized, 
which  means  to  be  governed  and  guided  as  the  Lord  would  have  us 
guided,  by  his  commandments,  and  as  he  has  called  upon  us  to  conduct 
ourselves,  do  you  think  it  would  be  possible  or  necessary  for  the  legisla- 
ture of  this  State  to  meet  for  sixty  days  and  more,  wrangling  and  con- 
tending over  methods  how  and  by  whom  liquor  should  be  dispensed  within 
the  State  ?  I  want  to  tell  you  there  would  be  no  need  for  such  legislation, 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


no  need  for  such  laws,  for  every  man  would  love  to  obey  the  law  of  God  ; 
would  keep  his  commandments,  and  we  would  not  need  to  place  upon 
the  statutes  measures  of  this  kind  endeavoring  to  control  and  direct  us 
because  we  haven't  sense  enough  to  act  wisely  and  justly  through  our 
agency  in  and  of  ourselves. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  guide  us  in  truth,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "Praise 
to  the  Man  Who  Communed  With  Jehovah." 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

To  look  at  this  vast  congregation,  and  realize  the  purpose  of  heart 
that  has  brought  them  together  from  various  parts  of  the  Church  and 
of  the  world,  is  an  inspiration  that  fills  my  soul.  It  is  one  of  the  thrills 
of  this  great  conference.  To  sit  here  and  listen  to  the  beautiful  musical 
program  that  has  been  rendered,  broadcast  to  the  world  by  this  great 
Tabernacle  Choir,  and  to  consider  how  that  man,  through  the  blessing  of 
God,  has  been  able  to  devise  the  means  to  make  this  possible,  is  another 
great  thrill,  and  leads  me  in  my  feelings  to  exclaim,  with  the  poet : 

For  all  thy  mercies,  O  my  God, 

My  rising  soul  surveys ; 
Transported  with  the  muse  I'm  lost 

In  wonderment,  love  and  praise. 

REJOICES  IN  BLESSINGS  OF  THE  CONFERENCE 

In  the  things  which  I  have  heard,  and  felt,  with  you,  inspired  of  the 
Lord  through  his  Holy  Spirit,  in  the  various  sessions  of  this  conference,  I 
have  had  a  great  thrill.  To  listen  to  the  beautiful  music — for  that  which 
we  have  had  during  this  conference  has  been  exceptionally  good  and 
inspiring— and  to  hear  the  fervent  prayers  that  have  been  offered,  the 
sincere  testimonies  that  have  been  borne,  and  the  excellent  advice  and 
counsel  that  have  been  given — all  has  a  tendency  to  make  my  soul  rejoice. 

Not  the  least  of  the  thrills  that  have  come  to  me  is  the  fact  that 
our  faithful  Hawaiian  brethren  and  sisters,  ten  in  number,  have  come  all 
the  way  from  Hawaii  to  join  with  us  in  worshiping  the  Lord. in  this 
conference,  and  to  hear  them  sing  in  their  native  tongue  and  to  feel  the 
spirit  of  it.  God  bless  these  people,  that  their  stay  with  us  may  be 
pleasant  and  that  they  may  have  a  safe  return  home.  They  are  of  Israel. 

UNDER  THE  CURSE 

I  have  thought  how  that  the  results  of  the  curse,  through  the  fall  of 
our  first  parents,  rest  upon  mankind.    These,  our  brethren  and  sisters 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


101 


from  Hawaii,  and  the  people  whom  they  represent,  are  under  the  same 
curse.  My  heart  goes  out  in  love  to  that  people.  Their  blood  is  as  red  and 
pure  as  ours.  Their  hearts  are  tender.  They  are  an  affectionate  people. 
They  are  a  music-loving  people.  They  have  hearts  prepared  to  receive  the 
truth  of  the  everlasting  Gospel.  We  do  not  have  all  of  the  best  of  every- 
thing.   They  are  deserving  of  all  that  the  Lord  has  given  them. 

I  love  that  people.  I  believe  that  all  that  is  needed  is  for  me  to  become 
better  acquainted  with  them,  to  labor  with  them,  in  order  to  love  them  as 
they  were  loved  by  President  George  Q.  Cannon  and  by  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith.  We  all  know  how  they  loved  the  Hawaiian  people.  They 
served  them  faithfully,  in  the  early  life  of  this  Church,  as  missionaries 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  their  names  will 
never  be  forgotten  by  that  people. 

HAS  LOVE  FOR  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

I  love  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Is  that  going  too  far?  Am  I  sure  of 
what  I  say  when  I  say  I  love  them.  I  love  them  because  they  love  what 
I  love.  I  heard  that  quoted  by  Sister  Kate  C.  Jensen  this  morning.  It  is 
beautiful.  It  expresses  my  thought.  I  love  the  Latter-day  Saints  because 
they  subscribe  to  the  same  principles  that  I  have  subscribed  to  and  are 
trying  to  live  up  to  those  principles.  We  have  the  evidence  of  it  in  your 
attendance  here  today,  in  the  various  sessions  of  this  conference.  We  have 
the  evidence  of  it  in  the  statistics  which  were  read  to  us  in  the  opening 
session  by  President  David  O.  McKay,  showing  the  accomplishments  of 
this  work,  of  the  Lord's  people.  That  means  you,  brethren  and  sisters 
of  the  Church — evidences  of  your  faithfulness,  your  love  of  the  truth,  and 
your  integrity  to  the  faith. 

HAVE  NOT  FORGOTTEN  GOD 

The  tithes  and  offerings,  as  I  remember,  more  than  $3,000,000.00  in 
one  year,  and  that  in  times  of  great  financial  depression, — contributed  by 
a  people  who  are  not  rich,  who  are  not  wealthy!  God  has  chosen  the 
weak  things  and  the  poor  of  the  earth,  and  has  prepared  their  hearts  to 
receive  the  Gospel,  and  of  such  are  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  Hut  with  their 
mite  and  meager  earnings  they  have  not  forgotten  their  God.  They  have 
remembered  him  with  their  tithes  and  with  their  offerings,  and  those  tithes 
and  offerings  have  been  wisely,  judiciously  and  righteously  expended,  for 
the  advancement  of  the  Lord's  work  here  upon  the  earth. 

EXPRESSES  LOVE  FOR  MANKIND 

I  love  mankind.  Oh,  I  wish  I  could  fulfil  the  law  in  that  respect.  I 
love  them  because  of  what  they  have  done  for  you  and  for  me,  for  us, 
all  those  who  have  gone  before.  I  love  my  parents.  They  gave  me  life. 
I  appreciate  my  existence.  I  love  my  grandparents,  for  they  gave  my 
parents  life  and  existence,  and  made  it  possible  for  me  to  live  and  enjoy 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

the  blessings  I  enjoy  today.  And  just  as  well  I  love  all  my  forebears ;  no 
matter  how  far  back  they  may  be  traced  they  belong  to  me  and  I  to  them. 
I  love  them.  As  I  become  more  acquainted  with  them,  by  genealogical 
research  and  by  doing  for  them  the  necessary  work  for  their  salvation, 
in  the  temple  of  the  Lord,  I  love  them  more. 

I  love  mankind  because  they  have  given  to  me  all  the  comforts  that 
I  have  in  my  home,  the  modern  means  of  transportation  which  I  enjoy, 
in  common  with  the  people  of  this  world,  on  the  water,  on  the  land,  in  the 
air;  the  modern  means  of  heating  and  of  lighting  which  we  have  in  our' 
homes,  even  the  water  system,  the  knowledge  to  be  able  to  take  from 
these  great  natural  streams  of  water,  rivers,  and  make  them  to  serve  our 
purpose  in  power— yes,  all  the  conveniences  that  we  have. 

Who  gave  us  these  things  but  our  forebears,  and  not  those  alone 
but  those  who  are  living  contemporary  with  us ;  many  of  them  are  among 
the  great  inventors  of  these  things  that  afford  us  such  comfort  in  life.  Are 
we  indebted  to  them ?  I  think  we  are.  Then  should  we  not  love  them? 
Should  we  not  have  a  desire  to  do  something  for  them  in  return,  and  if 
so,  what  can  we  do? 


MUST  HEAR  THE  GOSPEL 

For  the  most  part,  men  and  women  of  this  world  are  in  abject  pover- 
ty pertaining  to  a  knowledge  of  the  things  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  They 
know  not  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  as  we  know  him  to  be,  an  immortal, 
glorified  and  exalted  Being,  of  all  power  and  love  to  perfection ;  and  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ.  They  are  in  the  dark  pertaining  to  these  things,  and 
they  must  be  brought  to  the  light  in  order  that  God's  purposes  may  be 
fulfilled  in  their  salvation,  for  men  and  women  must  hear  the  Gospel 
and  receive  it  and  live  by  it,  if  they  will  be  exalted  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

It  is  to  be  taught  to  those  who  have  gone  beyond.  It  is  their 
right.  Justice  demands  and  the  scriptures  teach  that  men  cannot  be 
judged  by  a  law  that  has  not  been  given  to  them.  What  can  we  do  for 
those  of  the  .world  who  are  in  need  but  to  give  unto  them  that  which  we 
have  in  such  great  abundance,  that  in  the  giving  of  it  we  do  not  impoverish 
ourselves  but  rather  enrich  our  own  souls,  and  it  makes,  too,  for  our 
own  salvation. 

That  is  what  the  preaching  of  this  Gospel  in  the  nations  of  the  world 
means  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people.  They  are  in  need  of 
it  all  this  wide  world.  We  have  the  truths  of  the  everlasting  Gospel. 
It  is  our  responsibility  to  bring  it  to  the  attention  of  mankind  in  the  most 
kind,  impressive  and  forceful  way  that  we  may  be  able  to  do,  under  the 
impress  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  which  it  will  be  our  right  and  privilege 
to  have  and  enjoy  when  engaged  in  this  sacred  ministry. 

IN  BEHALF  OF  THE  DEAD 

Now  those  who  have  gone  beyond,  is, there  anything  that  we  can  do 
to  pay  the  debt  of  gratitude  we  owe  to  them?    Just  as-  we  do  for  our 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


103 


kindred  dead,  learn  of  them  by  genealogical  research,  build  our  temples, 
go  into  the  temples  and  there  receive  for  them,  vicariously,  the  saving 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel.  Will  it  reach  all  those  to  whom  we  are  in- 
debted?! Yes,  if  all  of  us  look  well  to  our  kindred  dead.  It  is  a  great 
responsibility.  It  is  a  commandment.  The  Lord  told  his  servant  Abra- 
ham that  this  world  was  created  that  we,  his  children,  might  come  upon  it, 
that  we  might  be  proven  to  see  whether  we  will  do  all  things  whatsoever 
the  Lord  our  God  hath  commanded  us.  That  means,  of  course,  whether 
we  will  keep  all  of  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  not  a  few. 

LOVE  OF  GOD  AND  FELLOW  MEN 

You  know  what  the  Ten  Commandments  are,  that,  the  Lord  wrote 
with  his  finger  upon  tables  of  stone,  handed  down  to  us.  They  are 
recorded  in  the  twentieth  chapter  of  Exodus  of  the  Bible.  They  are 
binding  upon  us,  as  they  were  upon  the  children  of  Israel ;  and  other  laws 
such  as  the  law  of  the  tithes. 

But  to  one  who  asked  of  the  Savior,  "Which  is  the  greater  law?" 
his  answer  was :  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart, 
with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind.  This  is  the  first  great  command- 
ment. And  the  second  is  like  unto  it ;  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself." 

It  doesn't  seem  to  me  that  it  ought  to  be  necessary,  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  us  who  are  so  well  taught  in  the  Gospel  to  receive  a  command- 
ment of  this  kind.  Our  knowledge  of  our  indebtedness  to  God  ought  to 
lead  us  to  serve  him  and  keep  all  his  commandments,  though  we  had 
not  been  commanded.  And  our  indebtedness  to  our  fellow  men,  and  the 
knowledge  that  they  are  our  brothers,  sons  and  daughters  of  God  as  we 
are,  born  of  him  in  the  spirit,  in  whom  we  should  have  common  interest — 
this  knowledge  ought  to  lead  us  to  do  all  that  lies  in  our  power,  manifest- 
ing love  of  God  and  love  of  our  fellow  men. 

I  want  to  say  here  that  every  man  and  woman  that  is  engaged  in  the 
ministry  of  the  Lord  in  this  Church,  at  home  or  abroad,  and  faithfully 
engaged,  is  manifesting  his  or  her  love  for  him,  his  or  her  love  for 
fellow  men,  and  is  helping  to  bring  about  the  salvation  of  souls,  which 
means  the  glory  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  it  will  make  for  the 
individual's  salvation,  if  only  we  can  continue  thus  faithfully  to  the  end. 
God  grant  that  we  may,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

As  is  usually  the  case  at  our  General  Conferences  we  shall  not 
have  time  to  hear  from  all  who  we  would  like  to  have  address  us.  We 
desire  to  hear  five  or  six  minute  speeches  from  some  of  our  mission 
presidents  who  have  not  spoken  in  a  General  Conference  since  they 
returned  from  their  missions. 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission  - 

I  wish,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  could  express  in  words 
the  joy  and  happiness  I  have  had  in  this  conference,  in  listening  to 
the  inspirational  addresses  that  have,  been  given,  and  the  wonderful 
melody,  music  and  song,  that  have  been  rendered'.  I  rejoice  that  we 
have  means  by  which  these  things  can  be  transmitted  to  such  dis- 
tances, that  not  only  the  thousands  that  are  gathered  in  this  build- 
ing, but^  hundreds  of  thousands  in  this  nation  are  able  to  hear  these 
proceedings. 

I  visualized  a  scene  this  very  morning,  while  the  program  was 
going  on.  Four  hundred  miles  north  of  Portland,  Maine,  in  the 
depths  of  the  Maine  woods,  on  the  headwaters  of  the  "Rhine"  of 
America,  the  majestic  St.  Johns  River,  and  near  the  southern  bound- 
ary of  Quebec,  at  a  lone  Forest  Ranger  Station,  a  forest  ranger  was 
listening  to  this  particular  musical  program.  If  that  broadcast  car- 
ries also  the  services  of  this  conference,  he  is  "listening  in"  to  the 
instructions  that  are  given  here.  He  contacted  our  Elders  same  two 
years  ago,  but  because  of  the  distance  and  the  shortage  of  mission- 
aries, we  have  not  been  able  to  make  contact  again.  He  believes  the 
Gospel  but  has  not  accepted  it  ;  he  rejoices  in  the  beauties  of  that 
which  he  gets  from  these  broadcasts. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  laboring  in  the  Canadian  Mis- 
sion during  the  years  that  we  have  been  there,  for  the  knowledge  and 
understanding  that  have  come  to  us,  for  the  testimony  that  God  has 
given  us,  the  testimony  that  has  been  strengthened  while  we  have 
been  there.  Sister  Bluth  and  I  have  been  nearer  unto  the  Lord  than 
at  any  other  period  in  our  lives.  We  have  taken  joy  in  our  labors, 
loved  by  the  people  there ;  and  we  love  them,  because  we  see  alike  in  the 
things  that  pertain  to  eternal  life. 

We  have  been  advised  that  about  June  of  this  year  we  will  be  re- 
leased from  our  missionary  labors.  We  thank  the  brethren  and 
praise  God  our  Heavenly  Father  for  the  opportunity  given  us,  for 
the  joy  that  is  m  our  hearts,  for  the  little  heaven  that  we  have  enjoyed 
while  we  have  been  away,  for  the  knowledge  and  understanding  that 
nave  come  to  us.  s 

I  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  I  know  that  God 
lives;  I  know  that  this  is  his  work;  that  he  is  at  the  helm;  that  we 
need  fear  nothing,  under  those  conditions,  except  our  own  failure 
to  live  up  to  what  we  have  received.   The  keynote  of  this  conference 

W  5  ?  6  G.fPe1'  a?d  ES  an  undercurrent  of  all  our  preach- 

ing in  the  four  years  that  we  have  been  there,  there  has  been  the  same 
theme. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  if  you  wish  to  realize  all  the  joy  and  power 
of  the  Gospel  of  salvation  m  your  lives,  live  all  of  its  teachings  or 
it  will  be  worthless  unto  you. 


ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 


105 


May  God  bless  us  and  help  us  to  serve  him,  to  be  true  unto  the 
covenants  we  have  made  with  him,  to  live  the  principles  of  the  Gos- 
pel, and  realize  in  our  lives  the  glories  and  the  beauties  that  are  fore- 
told in  the  scriptures.  May  we  have  faith,  understanding  and  joy 
while  we  live  here,  and  everlasting  joy  in  the  life  to  come,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 

Eo  nn er  President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

This  is  rather  unexpected  to  me,  to  be  called  upon  to  speak  to 
you  this  morning.  However,  I  rejoice  in  an  opportunity  to  raise  my 
voice  in  defense  of  this  great  latter-day  work.  For1  a  little  over  five 
and  a  half  years  I  had  the  pleasure  and  the  honor  of  laboring  in 
the  East  Central  States  Mission,  and  I  rejoiced  in  the  wonderful 
growth  of  the  work  in  that  part  of  the  Lord's  vineyard  and  in  the 
change  of  sentiment,  through  the  press  and  through  coming  in  con- 
tact with  those  with  whom  we  had  the  opportunity  of  conversing-  or 
corresponding.  It  gave  me  a  great  deal  of  pleasure  to  see  the  change 
in  attitude  toward  our  people. 

When  I  returned  from  attending  conference  last  April  there  was 
a  letter  awaiting  me,  extending  an  invitation  to  attend  a  convention 
of  the  Associated  Council  of  Churches  of  America,  at  Louisville. 
The  letter  was  signed  by  the  president  of  the  association,  and  also 
by  the  president  of  the  Ministerial  Association  of  the  City  of  Louis- 
ville, both  joining  in  a  large  convention  of  ministers  from  all  parts 
of  the  United  States  and  Canada. 

I  took  the  opportunity  of  attending  that  convention  and  min- 
gling with  those  good  men,  ministers  who  had  gathered  from  all 
parts  of  the  land,  and  I  want  to  say  that  they  treated  me  with  the 
utmost  courtesy.  In  our  private  conversations,  whenever  they 
learned  that  I  was  a  Latter-day  Saint  and  from  Utah,  they  had  ques- 
tions to  ask  in  regard  to  our  people,  and  they  made  many  compli- 
mentary remarks  in  regard  to  what  they  had  already  known  and 
learned  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  So  the  teachings  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  reaching  to  all  parts  of  the  land  today,  and  we  count  those 
men  as  our  friends.  I  was  indeed  happy  to  have  the  privilege  and  the 
opportunity  of  meeting  and  conversing  with  them. 

This  morning  I  was  talking  with  President  S.  O.  Bennion)  who 
has  charge  of  the  Deseret  News.  I  desired  to  have  him  send  me 
three  copies  of  the  articles  that  have  been  published,  or  rather,  the 
radio  talks  given  by  Brother  Morris  in  regard  to  the  restoration  of  the 
Gospel,  because  there  are  three  different  individuals  in  the  East  to 
whom  I  desire  to  send  those  copies,  as  they  have  asked  questions 
along  that  particular  line. 

Not  only  these  three,  but  there  are  many  others  whose  curiosity 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  aroused,  and  they  desire  to  know  more  of  the  teachings  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  your  duty  and  my  duty, 
wherever  the  opportunity  presents  itself,  to  get  this  message  to  the 
people  of  the  world,  because  they  are  hungering  and  thirsting  after 
truth.  They  have  been  in  darkness  for  many,  many  years,  but  the 
light  is  just  coming  to  them. 

I  say  again  I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  that  I  have  of  raising  my 
voice  and  assisting,  in  a  weak  way,  in  still  furthering  this  cause,  al- 
though I  am  not  actively  engaged  in  the  ministry  at  this  particular 
time.  I  am  thankful  to  President  Grant  and  his  counselors  and  the 
members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  for  the  opportunity  that  I 
have  had  of  laboring  in  the  ministry,  and  for  the  support  that  they 
gave  me  while  actively  engaged.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless 
them  with  every  needful  blessing,  that  they  may  have  the  strength 
and  the  power  to  carry  on  this  work  and  magnify  their  callings  in  a 
way  that  will  be  pleasing  to  our  Heavenly  Father. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  all  of  your  righteous 
undertakings  here  upon  the  earth.  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  that  I 
have  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  the  experience  that  has  come  to  me 
in  my  life,  that  has  borne  testimony  to  me  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Savior  and  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  that  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  the  instrument,  in  the  hands  of  the  Al- 
mighty, in  establishing  his  work  upon  the  earth  for  the  last  time.  It 
will  never  more  be  thrown  down,  nor  will  it  be  given  to  another  peo- 
ple. You  and  I  may  fall  by  the  wayside,  but  God  will  raise  up  those 
who  will  carry  on  this  work,  until  finally  his  purposes  will  be  consum- 
mated in  all  the  earth. 

May  his  blessings  rest  upon  all  of  you,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  GUST  AVE  W.  FORSBERG 

Former  President  of  the  Szvedish  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  very  much  surprised  and  over- 
whelmed at  being  called  to  speak  on  this  occasion.  It  is  eight 
months  since  I  returned  from  the  Swedish  Mission.  President  Grant 
called  for  me  at  the  last  conference,  which  was  held  in  October,  but  I 
was  not  able  to  attend  at  that  time. 

I  am  thankful  for  this  privilege  to  bear  my  testimony  concern- 
ing the  truthfulness  of  this  work.  I  am  thankful,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  I  had  the  privilege  and  the  honor  of  going  into  the  mis- 
sion field  again,  and  especially  for  my  association  with  the  young 
men  that  it  was  my  privilege  to  work  with  in  the  mission  field. 

There  was  progress  being  made  in  Sweden  when  we  left  there 
eight  months  ago,  and  I  am  sure  that  the  work  is  going  forward  under 


ELDER  GUST  AVE  W.  FORSBERG 


107 


the  direction  of  Brother  Hugo  D.  E.  Peterson,  who  is  now  presiding 
over  the  Swedish  Mission. 

When  President  John  A.  Widtsoe  visited  us  in  Sweden  in  Sep- 
tember, 1933,  we  were  given  a  lot  of  publicity  by  the  daily  papers. 
They  said  many  good  things  about  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  a 
great  change  in  attitude  was  noticeable,  as  compared  with  thirty 
years  earlier  when  I  labored  there  as  a  missionary. 

Then  again,  when  President  Joseph  F.  Merrill  visited  us  in  May, 
1934,  the  press  was  just  as  liberal  in  making  comments  on  our  meet- 
ings and  saying  good  things  about  us.  So  the  attitude  in  Sweden 
has  changed  a  great  deal  in  regard  to  the  Mormons. 

When  John  H.  Taylor  was  speaking  last  night  in  the  priesthood 
meeting,  relating  some  of  the  sacrifices  that  are  made  by  those  who 
fulfil  missions,  1  was  reminded  of  a  lady  missionary  who  is  now  in 
Sweden,  fulfilling  her  third  mission.  When  not  engaged  in  mission- 
ary work  abroad  she  has  been  doing  temple  work  at  home.  We 
learned  that  she  had  spent  upwards  of  $1,000.00  in  gathering  her 
genealogy,  and  all  her  money  has  been  earned  through  housework. 
This  is  a  testimony  to  me  that  there  are  people  even  today  who  are 
willing  to  make  sacrifices  in  order  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
It  is  an  example  to  many  of  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  should 
encourage  us  to  make  sacrifices  in  order  to  preach  the  Gospel,  which 
has  come  to  us  and  which  has  been  such  a  blessing  in  our  lives. 

I  am  thankful  that  my  father  listened  to  the  testimony  of  the 
Elders  who  came  to  his  home  and  brought  this  message  to  him.  All 
that  I  am  and  all  that  I  have  I  owe  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  work  in  Sweden  is  progressing  fairly  well.  We  are  making 
no  phenomenal  progress,  but  gradual  and  slow,  and  each  year  adds 
new  members  to  the  Church.  The  work  of  the  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions has  been  stressed  in  the  mission,  in  line  with  instruction  from 
the  president  of  the  European  mission,  and  we  find  that  through 
the  work  of  the  auxiliary  organizations  the  work  of  the  Church  as 
a  whole  is  progressing  and  making  headway. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel  which  I  have 
gained  through  my  experience  in  the  Church,  and  I  pray  that  I  may 
ever  be  faithful,  that  we  may  all  work  willingly  to  advance  God's 
purposes.  I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and 
that  the  men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  the  Church  today  are  servants 
of  God.  May  we  as  workers  in  the  Church  uphold  and  sustain 
them,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  M.  KIRKHAM 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  while  I  stand  before  you. 
r  am  very  pleased  today  to  represent  the  five  states  from  which 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


many  of  your  parents,  grandparents,  and  great  grandparents  came 
— Kentucky,  Tennessee,  North  Carolina,  West  Virginia,  and  Vir- 
ginia. 

It  is  just  one  hundred  years  ago  since  Wilford  Woodruff 
went  into  Memphis,  Tennessee,  and  then  up  into  Kentucky, 
preaching  the  Gospel.  Two — three — generations  have  grown  up 
since  that  time.  We  are  preaching  today  to  a  new  generation. 
Some  of  the  parents  of  the  boys  and  girls  that  we  have  in  the 
Mission  were  preaching  there  twenty  or  thirty  years  ago. 

I  would  like  to  add  my  testimony  in  regard  to  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  As  your  sons  and  daughters  go  to  the  door  of  many  a 
home,  entrance  is  given  to  them  by  the  people  because  of  their 
acquaintance  with  the  broadcasts  from  this  wonderful  building. 
These  broadcasts  are  doing  a  great  work. 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  to  you  the  pleasure  and  the  satis- 
faction that  come  to  these  young  men  and  women  in  the  mission 
field,  and  I  would  like  to  stress  to  you  the  pleasure  that  I  know 
comes  to  the  homes  also  of  these  good  young  men  and  women. 
If  I  had  the  time  I  could  tell  you  many  a  testimony  of  the  great 
and  wonderful  work  that  is  being  accomplished  at  this  end  of 
the  mission  in  the  way  of  converting,  if  you  please,  members  of 
the  family  to  greater  activity,  and  some  even  to  membership  in 
the  Church;  also  the  blessings  that  are  coming  to  these  good 
homes  which  provide  the  means  for  these  young  people. 

I  recall  that  only  a  short  time  ago  two  young  men  within 
two  weeks  came  to  me,  both  with  a  similar  story,  a  sort  of  coin- 
cidence, and  told  me  their  fathers  had  lost  their  jobs  and  perhaps 
they  would  have  to  return  home. 

I  said:  "Have  faith.   This  is  the  Lord's  work." 

Both  of  these  young  men,  within  less  than  thirty  days,  came 
back  to  me  and  said  their  parents  had  other  jobs  at  increased 
salaries.   I  know  that  the  Lord  is  blessing  us. 

Another  man,  only  yesterday,  told  me  that  he  had  paid  off 
more  debts  since  his  son  had  been  on  a  mission  than  he  had 
done  for  years.  The  Lord  blesses  those  who  have  faith  in  him 
and  send  their  boys  and  girls  into  the  world.  I  pray  that  he  will 
stimulate  greater  action  and  greater  faith  in  this  missionary  work. 
We  are  trying  to  preach  the  Gospel,"  and  to  preach  love,  for  the 
greatest  commandment  is  to  love  the  Lord  and  our  fellow  men. 
We  are  also  trying  to  preach  to  those  good  people  and  teach 
them  the  Gospel,  that  through,  obedience  to  the  Gospel  they  can 
obtain  the  blessings  they  desire,  and  in  no  other  way. 

The  Savior  says,  "If  ye  love  me  ye  will  keep  my  command- 
ments. And  so  I  think  this  might  apply  here  at  home.  The 
greater  love  we  show,  the  nearer  will  we  live  to  our  Heavenly 
father. 

.  1  have  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work.  I  have  "been 
active  m  this  Church  for  many  years,  but  at  no  other  time  in  my 


ELDER  JAMES  M.  KIRKHAM 


109 


life  have  I  had  such  great  satisfaction  and  pleasure  as  I  am  hav- 
ing today,  and  I  believe  that  one  of  the  reasons  for  it  is  that  I 
am  putting  more  into  it.  If  you  will  give  the  Gospel  away,  so  to 
speak,  to  your  friends  and  your  neighbors  you  will  be  blessed. 

I  shall  never  forget  the  words  of  President  Grant ;  I  don't 
know  whether  he  remembers  them.  As  I  bade  him  good-bye  at 
our  last  conference  he  said  to  me,  "President  Kirkham,  go  down 
there  and  put  the  people  to  work."  He  referred  to  the  members 
of  the  Church.  I  can  tell  him  that  we  have  followed  his  advice 
and  benefits  are  accruing  in  a  number  of  our  branches.  It  is 
really  an  inspiration  because  of  the  satisfaction  that  is  coming  to 
them.  They  are  working,  they  are  holding  meetings  with  their 
neighbors  and  their  friends ;  not  only  are  the  missionaries  preach- 
ing the  Gospel,  but  we  are  trying  to  get  the  members  to  preach 
the  Gospel  by  their  lives,  by  their  actions,  and  by  their  words, 
so  that  they  can  face  their  Redeemer  and  their  Judge,  and  not 
feel  guilty  because  of  not  having  done  their  part. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  the  missionary  work,  in  warning 
the  world  of  the  coming  judgments  upon  those  who  do  not  serve 
him.  Oh,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  pray  for  us  in  this  great  work, 
that  we  may  do  our  duty  well,  and  that  we  shall  be  successful 
in  performing  the  part  that  we  have  been  called  upon  to  per- 
form, I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  anthem  "Inflammatus,"  Laurinda  P. 
Brewerton,  soloist. 

Elder  Alfred  L.  Hanks,  President  of  the* Tooele  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

THIRD  DAY 

AFTERNOON  SESSION 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock 
Sunday  afternoon,  April  7. 

Again  the  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity  with  people,  and 
thousands  of  others  congregated  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  on  the  Taber- 
nacle grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the  Conference  proceedings  as 
they  were  broadcast  by  radio  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session. 

An  anthem,  "Watchmen  of  Zion,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir,  Jessie 
Evans,  soloist. 

James  Haslam  and  Rilla  W.  Peterson  sang  a  duet,  "Love  Divine." 
Elder  T.  Clark  Callister,  President  of  the  Millard  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

As  I  stand  before  you  this  afternoon,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  my 
heart  is  humble  indeed.  This  great  conference,  itself,  with  all  that  it 
connotes,  makes  me  feel  so.  The  lofty  and  thrilling  messages  in  sermon 
and  song,  the  crowded  sessions,  the  largely  attended  priesthood  meeting 
last  evening,  the  very  fact  that  from  these  Tabernacle  grounds  this  morn- 
ing there  radiated  messages  which  touched  the  hearts  of  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  our  fellow  countrymen— these  and  other  outstanding- 
features  all  combine  to  heighten  in  my  soul  the  realization  of  the  world- 
wide significance  of  the  mission  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  sense, 
therefore,  more  keenly  than  ever  before  the  need  of  divine  inspiration 
and  guidance  for  all  who  carry  responsibility,  that  each  of  us  may  dis- 
charge his  duty  acceptably. 

THE  HOME  AN  IMPORTANT  FACTOR  IN  STABLE  GOVERNMENT 

I  was  particularly  pleased  with  President  Clark's  message  this 
morning  regarding  the  fundamentals  of  our  government.  In  keeping 
therewith  I  desire  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  united,  well-ordered 
American  home  is  one  of  the  greatest  contributing  factors  to  the  preser- 
vation of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States.  It  has  been  aptly  said 
that  Out  of  the  homes  of  America  will  come  the  future  citizens  of 
America,  and  only  as  those  homes  are  what  they  should  be  will  this 
nation  be  what  it  should  be."  Of  the  importance  of  home  and  of  dangers 
hat  threaten  the  sanctity  0f  marriage,  I  feel  impressed  to  say  a  few  words 
this  afternoon. 

MARRIAGE  A  DIVINE  INSTITUTION 

The  exalted  view  of  marriage  .as  held  by  this  Church  is  given 
expressively  m  five  words  found  in  the  49th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  Marriage  is  ordained  of  God."  That  revelation  was  given 
in  1831  when  Joseph  Smith  was  only  twenty-five  years  of  age  Consider- 

exl,  nlClrUmSlanC?  TdeZ  W.hiGh  {t  WaS  Siven'  we  find  in  it  another 
example  among  hundreds  of  others  corroborative  of  the  fact  that  he  was 

inured  of  the  Lord.  "Watchmen  of  Zion,  I  am  trusting  you/'  waTa 

message  given  m  song  at  the  opening  of  this  session.    Before  irTare 

w^^2TndA  °f  WrChmen  in  Zi°n-  PresidinS  officers  i"  stakes, 
wards  quorums,  and  auxiliaries,  it  is  your  duty  and  mine  to  uphold  the 

oft)  conception  of  marriage  as  given  in  this  revelation  and  to  guard 
g  dangCrS  that  thrCaten  t0  l0Wer  the  s^ard  oTthe 

INSPIRATION  OF  HIGH  IDEALS 

toward  h-Jh'V^  't  Y  min°h]^  Kv«  are  those  which  are  set 
toward  high  ideals.  Truly  no  higher  ideal  regarding  marriatre  can  he 
cherished  by  young  people  than  to  look  upon  it  £  a  AW  Stion  In 


PRESIDENT  DAVID,  0.  McKAY 


111 


the  minds  of  the  young  such  a  standard  is  a  protection  to  them  in  court- 
ship, an  ever  present  influence  inducing  them  to  refrain  from  doing  any- 
thing which  may  prevent  their  going  to  the  Temple  to  have  their  love 
consummated  in  an  enduring  and  eternal  union.  It  will  lead  them  to 
seek  divine  guidance  in  the  selecting  of  their  companions,  upon  the  wise 
choice  of  whom  their  life's  happiness  here  and  hereafter  is  largely  depend- 
ent. "Our  home  joys,"  says  Pestalozzi,  "are  the  most  delightful^  earth 
affords,  and  the  joy  of  parents  in  their  children  is  the  most  holy  joy  of 
humanity.  It  makes  their  hearts  pure  and  good ;  it  lifts  them  up  to  their 
Father  in  Heaven."  Such  joys  are  within  the  reach  of  most  men  and 
women  if  high  ideals  of  marriage  and  home  be  properly  fostered  and 
cherished. 

ENCROACHING  DANGERS 

And  yet,  if  I  mistake  not  the  signs  of  the  times,  the  sacredness  of  the 
marriage  covenant  is  dangerously  threatened.  There  are  some  who 
question  whether  family  life  is  permanent  as  a  social  organization.  They 
claim  that  marriage  ties  will  be  and  should  be  but  temporary,  that  chil- 
dren will  be  born  not  in  families,  but  in  the  life  of  the  state.  Recently 
in  a  trip  east  I  observed  to  my  dismay  an  increasing  number  of  "Gretna 
Greens,"  places  where  the  marriage  ceremony  may  be  performed  at  any 
hour  of  the  day  or  night  without  any  previous  arrangement.  The 
license  is  issued  and  the  ceremony  performed  while  the  couple  wait; 
already  I  know  of  at  least  two  couples  that  have  been  entrapped  by  such 
enticements  and  both  cases  have  ended  in  disappointment  and  sorrow. 
In  some  instances  these  places  are  nothing  more  than  opportunities  for 
legalized  immorality.  Oh  how  far  they  fall  below  the  true  ideal !  As  far 
as  lies  within  our  power,  we  must  warn  young  couples  against  secret 
and  hasty  marriages. 

It  is  vital  also  to  counteract  the  insidious  influences  of  printed 
literature  that  speaks  of  the  "bankruptcy  of  marriage,"  that  advocates 
trial  marriages,  and  that  places  "extra-marital  relations"  on  a  par  with 
"extra-marital  friendships." 

I  need  say  little  about  the  growing  evil  of  divorce  and  the  resultant 
broken  homes.  You  know  that  it  is  almost  as  easy  to  get  a  divorce 
as  it  is  to  get  married.  Today,  one  out  of  five  marriages  in  the  United 
States  ends  in  divorce  or  annulment.  One  of  the  peace  officers  in  Salt 
Lake  reported  recently  that  eighty-six  per  cent  of  the  delinquent  cases 
come  from  such  broken  homes.  America  seems  to  be  drifting  toward 
a  low  level  as  regards  the  law  of  family  and  home,  with  the  result  that 
sin  and  crime  are  increasing  to  an  alarming  extent  among  the  youth  of 
our  fair  land. 

I  mention  these  things  not  in  the  spirit  of  pessimism  nor  as  a  crier 
of  impending  calamity,  but  with  the  desire  to  call  attention  to  the  necessity 
of  our  maintaining  the  high  standard  of  marriage  set  forth  in  the  reve- 
lations of  the  Lord. 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


RESPONSIBILITY  OF  PARENTHOOD 

Equal  in  importance  to  the  high  conception  of  the  marriage  covenant 
is  the  teaching  of  the  Church  in  regard  to  the  responsibility  of  parent- 
hood : 

Inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion  or  in  any  of  her  stakes  which  are 
organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of  repentance,  faith  in 
Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  the  laying, on  of  the  hands,  when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of 
the  parents.    (D.  &  C.  69:25.) 

Parenthood  and  particularly  motherhood  should  be  held  as  a  sacred 
obligation.  There  is  something  in  the  depths  of  the  human  soul  which 
revolts  against  neglectful  parenthood.  Recently  an  incident  occurred  in 
one  of  the  European  countries  which  illustrates  how  the  sense  of  human- 
ity is  injured  when  a  mother  selfishly  and  wilfully  fails  to  take  care 
of  her  children.  When  I  read  that  capital  punishment  had  been  meted 
out  to  such  a  woman  I  thought  that  the  state  was  almost  barbarous,  but 
really  it  was  not  the  execution  of  the  law  that  was  so  terrible-  but  the 
woman  herself  who  by  cruel  neglect  of  her  children  committed  the  crime 
against  humanity.  How  deep-seated  is  this  soul  condemnation  of  one 
who  will  sacrifice  a  child  for  her  own  indulgence  or  even  to  save  her 
own  life  is  impressively  set  forth  by  Robert  Browning  in  his  dramatic 
idyll,  descriptive  of  a  mother  who  had  to  pay  the  extreme  penalty  for 
having  lived  to  tell  the  story  of  her  children's  death. 

A  mother  bears  a  child:  perfection  is  complete 
So  far  in  such  a  birth.    Enabled  to  repeat 
The  miracle  of  life,— herself  was  born  so  just 
A  type  of  womankind,  that  God  sees  fit  to  trust 
Her  with  the  holy  task  of  giving  life  in  turn. 

****** 
How  say  you,  should  the  hand  of  God  trusted  with  life's  torch 

Kindled  to  light  the  world  aware  of  sparks  that  scorch, 

Let  fall  the  same?  Forsooth,  her  flesh  a  fireflake  stings- 
•      The  mother  drops  the  child !   Among  what  monstrous  things 
Shall  she  be  classed?  , 

****** 

The  fox-dam,  hunger-pined,  will  slay  the  felon  sire 

VxS?  ?-ares.  assault  her  whelP  :  the  beaver.  stretched  on  fire 
Will  die  without  a  groan;  no  pang  avails  to  wrest 
Her  young  from  where  they  hide— her  sanctuary  breast. 
What :s.here  then?   Answer  me,  thou  dead  one,  as  I  trow, 
Standing  at  God's  bar,  he  bids  thee  answer  now ! 

tf,i  rXtT^e  d™atic  Presentation,  but  it  illustrates  that  some- 

thing which  God  has  implanted  deep  in  every  human  breast  that  parents 
cannot  with  impunity  shirk  the  responsibility  to  protect  childhood  and 

frnJlhJl  Se€T  t0  .be,a  ^°wing  tendency  to  shift  this  responsibility 
TnnJtJ0™*  °  °Ut!lde  f  .fl"en«*  ^ch  as  the  school  and  the  church 
Important  as  these  outward  influences  are,  they  never  can  take  the  place 
of  the  influence  of  the  mother  and  the  father-constant  training,  constant 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


113 


vigilance,  companionship,  being  watchmen  of  our  own  children,  are  neces- 
sary in  order  to  keep  our  homes  intact. 

The  fact  cannot  be  too  strongly  emphasized  that  the  real  source  of 
security  of  our  nation  rests  in  the  well-ordered  and  properly  conducted 
home.  The  character  of  the  child  is  formed  largely  during  the  first  12 
years  of  his  life.  It  is  estimated  that  in  that  period  the  child  spends  16 
times  as  many  waking  hours  in  the  home  as  in  school,  and  more  than 
100  times  as  many  hours  in  the  home  as  in  the  church.  Every  child  is 
to  a  great  degree,  what  he  is  because  of  the  ever  constant  influence  of 
home  environment  and  the  careful  or  neglectful  training  of  parents. 

"Teach  the  child  self-respect,"  says  Luther  Burbank,  the  great 
plant-wizard.  "Train  it  in  self-respect,  just  as  you  train  a  plant  in  better 
ways.  No  self-respecting  man  is  ever  a  grafter.  Above  all,  bear  in  mind 
repetition,  the  use  of  an  influence  over  and  over  again,  keeping  ever- 
lastingly at  it.  This  is  what  fixes  traits  in  plants,  the  constant  repetition 
of  an  influence,  until  at  last  it  is  irrevocably  fixed  and  will  not  change. 
You  cannot  afford  to  get  discouraged.  You  are  dealing  with  something 
far  more  precious  than  a  plant — the  precious  soul  of  a  child." 

THREE  THINGS  TO  WHICH  EVERY  CHILD  IS  ENTITLED 

There  are  three  fundamental  things  to  which  every  child  is  entitled. 
First,  a  respected  name;  second,  a  sense  of  security;  third,  opportunities 
for  development. 

The  family  gives  to  the  child  his  name  and  standing  in  the  com- 
munity. A  child  wants  his  family  to  be  as  good  as  those  of  his  friends. 
He  wants  to  be  able  to  point  with  pride  to  his  father  and  feel  an  inspira- 
tion every  time  'he  looks  at  his  mother.  It  is  a  mother's  duty  so  to  live 
that  her  children  will  associate  with  her  everything  that  is  beautiful, 
sweet  and  pure.  And  fathers,  even  the  poorest  of  us,  from  a  financial 
standpoint,  may  so  conduct  our  lives  as  to  be  able  to  say  to  our  sons  in 
the  words  of  a  poet : 

I  have  no  wealth  to  leave)  you,  and  no  fame. 
This  must  be  your  inheritance  :  my  name.  .  .  . 
(In  interest  of  brevity  not  read  but  now  added) 
T  have  tried  to  make  my  name  synonymous 
In  all  mens'  minds,  with  things  the  most  worthwhile  ; 
With  strength  to  do  the  right,  though  none  might  see  me ; 
With  grit  to  meet  disaster  with  a  smile ; 
With  loyalty  to  those  with  claims  upon  me ; 
With  justice  equally  toward  foe  and  friend; 
With  honor,  truth,  integrity,  square  dealing — 
"My  word  my  bond." 

Now,  as  I  reach  the  end, 
K  Too  well  I  know  that  I  have  failed  in  efforts 

Where  I  have  wanted  greatly  to  succeed  ; 
Too  oft  I've  seen  my  dreams,  bright  in  the  forming, 
Prove  naught  but  vain  imaginings,  indeed. 
But  this  I  do  believe :  when  I  have  traveled 
Life's  twisting  road,  and  worked  out  Life's  great  plan, — 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


When  I  have  gone  beyond  life's  praise  or  blaming — 
It  will  be  said  of  me,  "He  was  a  man." 
And  so,  because  of  this,  I  feel  no  shame 
When  I  bequeath  to  you,  my  son,  my  name. 

SENSE  OF  SECURITY 

In  regard  to  the  sense  of  security,  every  child  is  entitled  to  food, 
shelter  and  raiment,  and  he  should  feel  in  his  home  a  safe  and  comfortable 
protection  from  the  outside  world.  "He  needs  parents  who  are  happy  in 
their  adustment  to  each  other,  who  are  working  hopefully  toward  the 
fulfilment  of  an  ideal  of  living,  who  love  their  children  with  a  sincere 
and  unselfish  love."  Regarding  economic  security  the  report  of  the  White 
House  Conference  on  Child  Health  and  Protection  says : 

Fundamental  to  the  very  existence  of  family  is  its  economic  status— its 
ability  to  provide  an  adequate  income  and  to  expend  it  wisely.  A  basic  income 
should  be  within  the  attainment  of  each  family  to  insure  the  minimum  standard 
for  survival  and  security.  This  is  an  economic  problem  of  national  scope.  A  na- 
tion that  values  its  future  development  will  take  steps  to  see  that  this 'basic  income 
at  least  is  available  to  all  its  people.  Only  then  can  we  demand  of  all  families  the 
observance  of  those  methods  of  child  care  upon  which  child  health  and  protection 
depend. 

In  this  phase  of  family  life  the  Church  can  render  excellent  service. 
No  other  organization  in  the  world  is  so  well  prepared  to  know  the 
physical  and  economic  condition  of  each  person  as  is  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Now  is  an  opportune  time  for  the 
Church  to  demonstrate  its  efficiency  not  only  in  knowing  the  needs  of  the 
destitute  but  in  supplying  their  needs. 

SUPPLEMENTING  THE  HOME 

In  teaching  children,  it  should  ever  be  kept  in  mind  that  "Behavior 
is  caught,  not  taught."  Example  is  more  potent  than  precept.  Parents 
have  the  duty  to  be  what  they  would  have  their  children  become  in  regard 
to  courtesy^  smcerity,  temperance,  and  courage  to  do  right  at  all  times. 

While  it  is  true  that  "we  need  not  power  or  splendor,  wide  hall  or 
lordly > dome,  the  good,  the  true,  the  tender— these  form  the  wealth  of 
home,  yet  the  fact  remains  that  there  are  certain  material  and  cultural 
needs  which  are  indispensable  to  successful  home  life.  During  the 
present  crisis,  to  prevent  the  breaking  up  of  homes,  these  material  needs 
must  be  furnished  by  the  group,  either  through  the  Church  or  the  state. 
Here  is  where  the  complete  organization  of  the  Church  should  function 
most  adequately.  The  material  as  well  as  the  spiritual  needs  of  everv 
tamily  m  the  Church  should  not  only  be  known  as  I  have  already  stated, 
but  supplied  by  the  bishopric  of  the  ward  either  directly  or  indirectlv 
In  a  superior  and  effective  manner  the  Church  can  also  and  does  supply 
■cultural  needs  such  as  education,  social  intercourse,  music,  etc  These 
may  be  obtained  by  every  child,  every  youth,  every  person  in  the  Church 
who  will  avail  himself  or  herself  of  the  opportunities  offered.  I  wonder 
if  parents  generally  are  doing  all  they  can  to  see  to  it  that  their  boys 


PRESIDENT  DAVID'  O.  McKAY 


115 


and  girls  are  members  of  quorums  and  auxiliaries,  organized  for  the 
express  purpose  of  supplementing  the  home  in  the  training  of  youth. 
Fifty  thousand  men  and  women  are  offering  their  services  free  of  charge 
to  give  social  and  moral  instruction  and  above  all  religious  instruction  to 
our  toys  and  girls  free.  It  is  our  duty  to  cooperate  with  them  for  the 
protection  of  our  own  children. 

With  the  divinity  of  our  marriage  covenant,  and  the  responsibility  of 
parenthood  ever  in  our  minds,  with  temple  marriage  as  an  ideal  for  every 
worthy  couple  in  the  Church,  we  associate  with  courtship  and  marriage 
the  most  sublime  ideals  that  influence  human  relations. 

LISTS  SAFEGUARDS 

That  youth  may  experience  in  anticipation  and  realization  all  the 
joy  that  can  be  found  in  a  congenial  and  heaven-blessed  home  life,  they 
and  we  should  be  guided  by  the  following  safeguards  : 

First,  substitute  the  present  tendency  toward  a  low  view  of  marriage 
by  the  high  ideal  which  God  has  given  it.  Choose  your  mate  not  alone 
for  physical  attraction,  but  for  congenial  and  spiritual  companionship. 

Second,  let  us  teach  the  young  of  both  sexes  in  the  sacredness  of 
the  ideals  of  marriage,  so  that  they  may  realize  that  marriage  involves 
obligations  and  is  not  an  arrangement  to  be  terminated  at  pleasure.  In 
this  regard,  it  is  the  duty  of  parents  to  set  an  example  in  the  home  that 
children  may  see  and  absorb  as  it  were  the  sacredness  of  family  and  the 
responsibility  associated  therewith. 

Third,  instruct  young  girls  in  the  fundamental  arts  of  housekeeping 
so  that  when  the  responsibilities  of  wifehood  come,  they 'may  be  free 
from  the  difficulties  and  perplexities  which  arise  from  ignorance  and 
inexperience. 

Fourth,  let  the  marriage  be  so  solemnized,  as  far  as  possible,  at  the 
place  of  residence,  which  will  minimize  the  evils  that  follow  runaway 
marriages.  For  members  of  the  Church  the  Temple  should  be  the  chosen 
place  in  which  this  sacred  obligation  is  assumed. 

Fifth,  foster  the  spirit  of  true  religion  from  the  very  beginning  of 
home  life. 

Sixth,  teach  the  young  that  the  foundation  of  a  happy  marriage 
is  laid  before  the  bride  and  bridegroom  kneel  at  the  altar.  Keep  the  spring 
of  life  pure  and  the  stream  will  more  likely  flow  on  unpolluted. 

HOME  BUILDING  PARAMOUNT 

Would  you  have  a  strong  and  virile  nation,  keep  your  homes  pure — 
would  you  reduce  delinquency  and  crime,  lessen  the  number  of  broken 
homes.  It  is  time  that  civilized  peoples  realized  that  prevention  is  more 
profitable  than  punishment,  and  that  the  home  is  the  incubator  either  of 
children  of  high  character  or  of  criminals.  Home  building,  therefore, 
should  be  the  paramount  purpose  of  parents  and  of  the  nation.  Tn  "Home, 
The  Savior  of  Civilization,"  we  read  : 

When  one  puts  business  or  pleasure  above  his  home,  he  that  moment  starts  on 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  down  grade  to  soul  ruin.  The  loss  of  fortune  is  nothing  compared  with  the  loss 
of  home.  When  the  club  becomes  more  attractive  to  any  man  than  his  home,  it  is 
time  for  him  to  confess  in  bitter  siiame  that  he  has  failed  to  measure  up  to  the 
supreme  opportunity  of  his  life  and  has  flunked  in  the  final  test  of  true  manhood. 
No  other  success  can  compensate  for  failure  in  the  home.  This  is  the  one  thing 
of  limitless  potentialities  on  earth.  The  poorest  shack  of  a  home  in  which  love 
prevails  over  a  united  family  is  of  greater  value  to  God  and  future  humanity 
than  the  richest  bank  on  earth.  In  such  a  home  God  can  work  miracles  and  will 
work  miracles.  The  greatest  miracle  that  King  Herod  ever  saw  was  John  the 
Baptist.  The  religious,  home,  though  poor,  produced  John  the  Baptist.  The  most 
dazzling  miracle  of  all  history  is  Jesus  of  Nazareth.  His  education  was  that  of 
a  united  religious  home.  Pure  hearts  in  a  pure  home  are  always  in  whispering 
distance  of  heaven.  In  such  a  home  there  is  always  a  key  which  one'  may  use  in 
opening  the  reservoirs  of  the  infinite  and  start  a  Pentecost.  The  great,  good  God 
who  made  this  world  ordained  man  and  woman  for  the  home  and  He  is  seeing 
to  it  that  they  may  search  the  whole  world  over,  but  will  never  find  the  sweetest 
joys  of  life  anywhere  but  in  the  home.  In  obedience  to  God's  law  for  human 
life,  one  should  make  it  his  highest  ambition  to  build  an  ideal  home.  Make  home 
your  hobby,  for,  if  anyone  makes  a  loving  home  with  all  his  heart,  he  can  never 
miss  heaven. 

MARRIAGE  ORDAINED  OF  GOD 

Verfly  I  say  unto  you  that  whoso  forbiddeth  to  marry  is  not  ordained  of  God, 
for  marriage  is  ordained  of  God  unto  man.  Wherefore,  it  is  lawful  that  he  should 
have  one  wife,  and  they  twain  shall  be  one  flesh,  and  all  this  that  the  earth  might 
answer  the  end  of  its  creation. 

I  repeat,  "It  is  lawful  that  he  should  have  one  wife,"  and  that 
harmony,  unity  and  blessed  confidence  should  pervade  the  home.  I 
emphasize  this  part  of  the  revelation  so  that  you  watchmen  of  the  priest- 
hood will  see  to  it  that  a  group  of  misguided  men  and  women  now  hiding 
behind  a  sanctimonious  claim  to  possess  superior  knowledge  regarding 
the  marriage  covenant,  do  not  betray  innocent  young  men  and  women 
into  unlawful  and  unholy  alliances. 

God  guide  and  inspire  us  to  keep  intact  the  true  Latter-day  Saint 
home,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvelve  Apostles 

THUS  ON  TO  ETERNAL  PERFECTION 

I  shall  begin  my  remarks  with  a  quotation  from  that  masterpiece 
of  literature  and  doctrine— the  Sermon  on  the  Mount: 

_   Ye  have  heard  that  it  hath  been  said,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor,  and  hate 
thine  enemy. 

But  I  say  unto  you,  Love  your  enemies,  bless  them  that  curse  you,  do  good 
you  y°U'        Pray  f°r  thCm  Whi°h  desPitefully  use  y°u.  and  Persecute 

That  ye  may  be  the  children  of  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  :  for  he  maketh 
Ins  sun  to  rise  on  the  evil  and  on  the  good,  and  sendeth  rain  on  the  just  and  on  the 
unjust. 

For  if  ye  love  them  which  love  you,  what  reward  have  ye?  do  not  even  the 
publicans  the  same? 


ELDER   RICHARD   R.  LYMAN 


117 


And  if  ye  salute  your  brethren  only,  what  do  ye  more  than  others?  do  not 
even  the  publicans  so? 

Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect. 

—Matthew  5  :43-48. 

RELIGION,  THE  WORLDS  GREATEST  NEED 

The  greatest  need  of  the  world  today  is  religion — the  religion 
of  unselfishness,  the  religion  of  Jesus  that  teaches,  "Thou  shalt  love 
thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  (Matt.  22:39)  "Be  ye  perfect,"  etc.  The 
unceasing  influence  of  the  Church  for  good  is  like  a  cord  attached  to 
the  feet  which  continues  always  to  bring  back  into  that  straight,  that 
narrow  way  any  who  have  deviated  to  the  right  or  to  the  left,  how- 
ever great  or  however  slight  the  deviation. 

Scholarship  has  no-  such  pull.  Science,  literature  and  the  arts 
cannot  take  the  place  of  religion.  While  religion  never  ceases  to 
exert  a  powerful  influence  for  good,  nevertheless  it  takes  a  tremend- 
ous amount  of  it  to  keep  us,  with  our  many  human  frailties,  doing 
our  best  all  the  time. 

When  Jesus  said,  "Be  ye  perfect,"  he  set  for  us  a  difficult  task. 
It  is  the  aim  of  the  Church  to  keep  us  on  the  way  to  perfection  insofar 
as  unceasing  vigilance  can  do  this.  I  shall  mention  a  few  of  the 
practises  of  the  Church  which  help  greatly  in  this  respect. 

TESTIMONY — -EXAMINATION  MEETINGS 

One  of  these  is  a  sort  of  annual  examination  or  testimony  meet- 
ing stake  presidents  are  advised  to  hold  with  the  members  of  their 
high  councils,  their  bishops  and  other  stake  and  ward  workers  who 
do  their  church  work  under  the  immediate  direction  of  the  stake 
presidency. 

And  all  other  stakes  and  ward  officers,  including  of  course  the 
bishops,  are  advised  to  hold  similar  meetings  with  those  who  labor 
under  their  direction.  In  fact  all  Church  officers  and  workers  in 
every  department,  including  those  in  auxiliary  activities,  are  to  be 
checked  up  at  least  once  each  year  to  find  out  with  what  degree  of 
success  we  are,  with  our  mortal  imperfections,  succeeding  in  our  ef- 
forts to  be  better  all  the  time. 

_  May  I  illustrate  what  I  mean  by  such  an  examination.  The  most 
rigid  I  ever  had  to  take  was  given  by  Francis  M.  Lyman.  He  con- 
ducted the  examinations  for  a  group  to  which  '1  belonged  and  over 
which  he  presided  much  as  Benjamin  Franklin  proceeded  with  his 
examination  of  himself. 

Franklin  said  he  knew  or  thought  he  knew  right  from  wrong 
and  he  did  not  see  why  he  might  not  always  do  the  one  and  avoid  the 
other.  But  he  soon  found  that  he  had  undertaken  a  task  of  more 
difficulty  than  he  had  imagined.  However,  in  his  practical  way, 
Franklin  made  a  list  of  thirteen  virtues  and  by  placing  particular 
emphasis  upon  one  of  these  at  a  time,  he  expected  to  be  able  to 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


master  that,  and  then  proceed  to  another.  By  repeated  efforts  he  planned 
to  go  on  thus  to  perfection. 

TESTS  BY  CHURCH  STANDARDS 

In  much  the  same  way  Francis  M.  Lyman  in  his  testimony  and 
examination  meetings  named  as  best  he  could  all  the  Church  stand- 
ards in  accordance  with  which  Latter-day  Saints  are  expected  to  live. 
He  referred  to  the  payment  of  tithing,  the  keeping-  0f  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  attendance  at  sacrament  meetings,  observance  of  family 
and  secret  prayers,  etc.  He  asked  if  the  members  of  the  organization 
were  good  husbands  and  fathers  and  neighbors.  Lie  advised  that 
they  speak  ill  of  no  man,  not  even  in  a  matter  of  truth,  but  rather 
excuse  the  faults  charged  against  others,  and  upon  proper  occasions, 
speak  all  the  good  they  knew  of  everybody.  He  asked  if  they  were 
good  citizens,  that  is,  if  they  took  a  proper  interest  in  public  affairs. 
He  wanted  to  know  if  they  were  frugal  and  if  they  paid  their  obliga- 
tions promptly.  He  insisted  that  it  is  the  duty  of  Church  members 
when  employed  to  live  within  their  means,  to  try  to  be  better  off 
financially  at  the  end  of  the  year  than  at  its  beginning,  etc.  In  brief, 
like  Franklin,  he  hoped  to  have  all  the  people  struggle  toward  per- 
fection all  the  time. 

''all  these  things  have  i  kept" 

We  were  all  impressed  with  the  effectiveness  of  these  examina- 
tions when  on  one  occasion  a  man  arose  and  said,  "I  have  no  dif- 
ficulty in  living  according  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  it  is  easy  for 
me  to  attend  sacrament  meetings  and  to  remember  with  regularity 
my  secret  and  family  prayers.  I  have  no  trouble  living  within  my 
income.  I  am  better  off  financially  today  than  I  was  a  year  ago. 
In  fact,"  he  continued,  using  almost  the  exact  language  of  the  Bible^ 
"all  these  things  have  I  kept  from  my  youth  up,  but  I  have  one  great 
weakness,  an  uncontrollable  temper." 

At  the  meeting  we  sang  the  familiar  number,  "Scatter  Seeds  of 
Kindness,"  which  in  part  is  as  follows : 

If  we  knew  the  baby  fingers, 

Pressed  against  the  window  pane, 
Would  be  cold  and  stiff  tomorrow — 

Never  trouble  us  again — 
Would  the  bright  eyes  of  our  darling 

Catch  the  frown  upon  our  brow  ? 
Would  the  prints  of  rosy  fingers 

Vex  us  then  as  they  do  now? 

Ah!  those  little  ice-cold  fingers, 

How  they  point  our  mem'ries  back 
To  the  hasty  words  and  actions 

Strewn  along  our  backward  track! 
How  those  little  hands  remind  us, 

As  in  snowy  grace  they  lie, 
Not  to  scatter  thorns — but  roses — 

For  our  reaping  by  and  by. 


ELDER  RICHARD   R.  LYMAN 


119 


It  was  after  hearing  the  harmony  of  this  impressive  song,  glori- 
fied by  the  sweet  tenor  voice  of  George  R.  Emery,  the  leader,  that 
our  associate,  our  brother,  with  the  tears  flowing  down  his  cheeks, 
said  :  "My  great  trouble  is  my  temper.  But  I  am  struggling  with  it 
and  I  am  glad  to  be 'able  to  report  that  during  the  past  year  I  think 
I  have  made  some  progress." 

PERFECTION  THROUGH  RELIGION 

Thus  a  human  soul  was  striving  successfully  to  do  that  which 
real  religion  demands,  namely,  that  we  do  our  best  to  reach  perfec- 
tion. 

It  is  doubtful  if  science,  literature,  art,  scholarship,  any  one  or  all 
of  these  combined,  can  stir  a  mortal  heart  to  put  forth  such  strenuous 
eflort  as  that,  for  the  sole  purpose  of  making  a  human  being  stronger 
and  better.  Only  religion,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  revealed 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  can  do  it. 

SEVEN  EXAMINATIONS 

Another  of  the  outstanding  practises  in  the  Church  intended  to 
make  its  members  more  nearly  perfect  is  our  way  of  advancing  boys 
and  young  men  in  the  priesthood.  Our  aim  is  to  teach  and  train  them 
to  expect  that  at  least  seven  times  in  their  lives,  if  they  are  regularly 
promoted  in  the  Church,  they  will  find  themselves  alone  with  the 
bishop  for  the  purpose  of  being  given  a  kind  and  fatherly  examina- 
tion. The  first  comes  when  the  boy  is  to  be  ordained  a  deacon,  the 
second  before  he  is  ordained  a  teacher,  the  third  before  he  is  ordained 
a  priest,  fourth,  before  he  is  ordained  an  elder,  fifth,  when  he  is 
sent  into  the  mission  field,  sixth,  when  he  makes  application  to  go 
into  the  temple,  and  seventh,  when  he  is  ready  to  take  some  charming- 
young  woman  with  him  to  the  altar  for  his  marriage  ceremony. 

These  seven  examinations  are  to  consist  of  questions  concerning 
details  of  Church  duties  and  conduct,  such  as  attitude  toward  to- 
bacco, tea,  coffee,  liquor,  tithing,  keeping  the  Sabbath  day  holy,  at- 
tending to  secret  and  family  prayers,  being  just  and  fair  and  charit- 
able1 and  patient  in  all  dealings  with  neighbors  and  business  associ- 
ates. One  question  to  be  emphasized  especially  is  "Have  you  lived 
in  accordance  with  the  Scout  oath  or  promise,  especially  that  part  of 
it  which  says,  'On  my  honor  I  will  do  my  best  to  keep  myself  physic- 
ally strong,  mentally  awake  and  morally  straight.'  "  Emphasis  is 
placed  especially  on  the  last  portion.  Wise  men  have  said  if  the 
Church  can  bring  up  a  generation  of  men  and  women  who  all  their 
days  walk  with  accuracy  in  the  path  of  virtue,  then  to  such  a  genera 
tion  nothing  will  be  impossible. 

ORDAINED  ELDERS  AT  NINETEEN 

And  now,  beginning  with  this  year  1935,  in  addition  to  the 
seven  exacting  examinations  above  referred  to,  an  additional  pro- 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


cedure  for  the  guidance  and  protection  of  boys  and  young-  men  has 
been  adopted.  I  refer  to  the  new  and  definite  policy  of  ordaining 
young  men  elders  when  they  reach  the  age  nineteen. 

It  has  been'  the  practise  for  years  to  ordain  boys  deacons  when 
they  are  twelve,  and  now  with  the  same  unanimity  and  persistence 
worthy  young  men  are  to  be  ordained  elders  at  nineteen. 

Dr.  Karl  G.  Maeser  used  to  say  to  us  his  normal  students,  "You 
are  being  trained  and  educated  to  teach  and  I  want  you  to  know  and 
to  remember  that  if  95  %  of  the  members  of  any  class  do  not  finish 
the  course  with  a  passing  grade  there  is  something  the  matter  with 
the  teacher." 

And  so  I  say,  if  95  %  of  our  young  folks  at  age  nineteen  are  not 
worthy,  and  the  young  men  cannot  therefore  be  ordained  elders, 
make  a  careful  survey  of  the  situation  and  I  predict  you  will  find 
something  wrong  with  the  teaching  or  the  training  in  the  home  or  in 
the  Church  or  in  both  of  these. 

The  plan  is  to  have  all  young  men  at  nineteen  become  by  ordina- 
tion full-fledged  men,  to  have  thus  put  upon  them  the  stamp  of  man- 
hood, the  stamp  of  character,  the  stamp  of  dependability.  We  want 
this  ordination  to  be  made  a  sort  of  commencement  or  graduation. 
It  will  indicate  that  the  course  begun  at  twelve  is  completed  not  only 
with  credit  but  with  honor  as  well. 

SATISFYING  A  NATURAL  CRAVING 

You  know  when  a  boy  is  twelve  nature  fills  him  with  visions  of 
and  ambition  for  the  future.  He  begins  to  long  for  the  company  and 
fellowship  and  leadership  of  men,  to  desire  to  break  away  from  his 
childhood  surroundings.  He  wants  to  run  away  from  home.  He 
begins  to  hear  nature's  cry  for  association  with  grown-ups.  It  is  the 
awakening  of  ambition  in  the  soul  of  the  boy.  At  his  age  practically 
all  our  boys  are  ordained  deacons  and  enter  the  Mutual  Improvement 
Association.  'In  his  M.  I.  A.  work  a  boy  is  made  a  Scout  and  can  be 
accepted  as  a  member  of  the  National  Scout  organization. 

In  order  to  satisfy  that  natural  demand,  that  craving  for  the 
association  of  men,  we  are  not  only  requesting,  but  urging  that  a 
strong  troop  committee,  a  committee  of  developed,  powerful  men, 
the  strongest  available,  be  appointed  by  all  the  bishops  in  all  the 
wards. 

The  outstanding  business  of  a  troop  committee  is  two-fold: 
First,  to  provide  well-trained  men  to  be  Scoutmasters,  assistant 
Scoutmasters,  and  leaders  and  associates  for  these  boys.  Second, 
to  provide  in  some  way  or  other  whatever  money  is  necessary  to 
make  the  troop  in  every  ward  outstandingly  successful. 

YOUTH  TO  BE  GUARDED 

The  prime  aim  and  purpose  of  our  program  is  to  preserve  young- 
people  from  temptation,  to  protect  them  from  evil.  The  Church 
stands  strongly  for  purity  rather  than  for  repentance. 


ELDER  RICHARD   R.  LYMAN 


121 


Is  it  not  providential  that  this  broad  and  intense  training  be- 
gins at  the  age  of  twelve?  Remember  Jesus  was  twelve  when 
after  three  days  his  parents  found  him  in  the  temple  sitting  in  the 
midst  of  the  doctors,  the  wise  men  of  his  day  and  time,  both  hearing 
them  and  asking  them  questions.  Even  Jesus  at  this  age  was  hun- 
gering apparently  for  the  association  of  men. 

While  I  have  been  emphasizing  the  responsibility  of  preserving 
the  boys  and  young  men  frqm  evil  and  temptation  as  this  responsi- 
bility rests  upon  the  bishops  and  their  associates,  I  desire  to  make  it 
clear  that  great  and  perhaps  greatest  of  all  is  the  responsibility  which 
rests  upon  the  parents.  The  home  must  do  its  part,  and  often  that 
part  can  be  done  best  by  the  mothers.  Men  may  fail  but  women 
never,  is  one  of  my  favorite  expressions. 

From  the  Improvement  Era  I  learned  that  one  stake  was  or- 
ganizing the  mothers  to  help  with  the  training  of  these  young  men 
and  boys.  If  organized,  the  mothers  of  the  deacons,  the  mothers  of 
the  teachers,  the  mothers  of  the  priests,  and  the  mothers  of  the  Scouts 
can  do  more  than  any  others  in  helping  to  train  these  boys  so  that 
at  the  age  of  nineteen  they  will  be  worthy  men,  noble,  fine,  young 
fellows,  who  can  consistently  be  ordained  elders. 

The  forces  of  all  our  organizations  are  thus  combined  to  bring 
not  only  our  boys  but  our  girls  also  through  their  boyhood  and  girl- 
hood into  manhood  and  womanhood  from  age  twelve  to  age  nineteen 
as  nearly  perfect  as  possible. 

With  united  ranks,  we  go  forward  singing,  "Thus  on  to  eternal 
perfection  the  honest  and  faithful  will  go." 

The  congregation  and  choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  What  is  Right." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

As  usual  we  are  short  of  time.  We  shall  not  call  on  Bishop  Syl- 
vester Q.  Cannon  to  speak  to  us  as  he  addressed  us  in  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  yesterday  evening.  We  shall  ask  Elder  Samuel 
O.  Bennion  and  Bishop  John  Wells  to  each  speak  to  us  for  ten  min- 
utes. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

One  of  the  outstanding  events  of  recent  occurrence,  if  not  an 
epochal  experience  in  history,  was  the  radio  service  held  a  few 
nights  ago  in  which  the  President  of  the  Church  and  the  Prophet  of 
the  Lord  greeted  members  of  the  Church  and  all  others  who  were 
listening  in  in  all  the  world  where  radio  connections  are  made. 

I  am  sure  that  no  one  can  accuse  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Latter-day  Saints  of  neglecting  its  duty.  For  years  the  word  of  the 
Lord  has  gone  forth  from  this  country  into  all  parts  of  the  world. 
A  solid  history  has  been  written  for  a  hundred  years.  Sermons  have 
been  delivered,  tracts  have  been  distributed,  books  have  been  placed 
in  the  homes  and  in  the  hands  of  the  people,  that  all  men  might  re- 
ceive a  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Now,  in  the  present  day,  with  the  wonderful  achievements  of 
modern  discoveries,  we  are  able  to  reach  the  hearts  of  the  children  of 
men  in  nearly  all  parts  of  the  world  in  just  a  few  moments  of  time. 
Truly  it  is  a  marvelous  age  in  which  we  live,  and  the  Church  marches 
on. 

The  promise  made  by  the  Savior  is  still  in  effect.    He  said : 

My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  his  will, 
he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself. 

I  know  of  no  authority  having  been  given  to  any  man  to  make 
any  change  in  the  doctrines  of  our  Eternal  Father's  Son.  He  preached 
the  Gospel  while  he  ministered  in  the  earth,  he  established  a  Church 
with  prophets  and  apostles,  and  gave  unto  the  world  a  true  order  of 
worship.  Paul  the  apostle  explains  the  necessity  and  purpose  of  the 
Church  organization : 

And  he  gave  some,  apostles ;  and  some,  prophets ;  and  some,  evangelists ;  and 
some,  pastors  and  teachers ; 

For  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edi- 
fying of  the  body  of  Christ : 

Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the  faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God. 

In  my  experience  in  life  I  have  not  been  able  to  find  that  anyone 
has  had  the  right  to  change  the  plan  established  by  the  Savior  during 
his  ministry,  and  restored  in  our  day. 

I  have  often  asked  men  and  women  to  review  the  history  of  the 
Church  as  well  as  the  doctrines,  and  see  if  they  do  not  comply  with 
the  principles  that  our  Eternal  Father  taught  through  his  Son.  If 
men  and  women  would  lay  aside  personal  prejudices  and  seek  for  the 
things  that  the  Lord  has  revealed  they  could  not  but  be  convinced 
of  the  truth !  I  appeal  to  people  to  listen  in  fairness  to  the  doctrines 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  They  do  not 
belong  to  us— they  belong  to  our  Eternal  Father  and  his  Son,  whom 
he  sent  into  the  world. 

As  I  stated  before,  this  Church  has  distributed  for  a  hundred 
years  millions  of  pages  of  literature  setting  forth  our  views  and  our 
beliefs,  without  asking  men  to  do  anything  except  to  repent,  to 
change  their  lives  if  they  are  doing  wrong,  to  investigate  the  Gospel 
as  we  see  it,  to  ascertain  if  there  is  a  need  for  prophets  and  apostles, 
and  to  learn  if  any  revelation  ever  came  from  God  to  man  to  do  away 
with  the  plan  that  he  ordained.  If  I  were  a  non-member  looking 
for  the  Church  that  would  give  me  an  inheritance  in  the  kingdom  of 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 


123 


God,.  I  would  most  certainly  look  for  one  that  offered  me  every  op- 
portunity to  know  the  truth,  to  know  what  it  means  to  live  in  the 
earth,  and  what  it  means  to  accept  a  plan  which  would  take  me  back 
into  the  presence  of  God  if  I  kept  his  commandments. 

I  have  never  found  anything  in  all  'history  that  fills  these  re- 
quirements as  does  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
It  gives  to  every  man  and  woman  who  enters  it  the  same  opportunity 
regardless  of  where  they  live  or  where  they  come  from.  It  is  for 
all  and  no  one  has  any  right  over  the  other.  It  teaches  us  the  plan 
of  our  great  Redeemer ;  it  acquaints  us  with  the  history  of  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Prophet,  and  those  who  have  followed  him. 

To  men  and  women  who  may  hear  my  voice,  who  are  not  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  again  I  plead  with  you  to  investigate,  while  you 
are  in  this  life,  the  workings  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints;  lay  aside  prejudices  of  every  kind;  get  acquainted  with 
the  doctrines,  and  read  the  word  of  God.  It  has  brought  joy  and 
satisfaction  to  thousands  of  souls.  It  will  do  it  to  you.  It  will  bring 
to  you  a  happiness  that  you  have  never  known  before.  It  will  bring 
to  you  eternal  life  in  the  kingdom  of  our  Father. 

This  is  my  testimony  to.yott  and  I  bear  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

Ever  since  the  Manti  choir  sang  the  beautiful  hymn,  "Lord  We 
Come  Before  Thee  Now,"  this  verse  has  been  in  my  mind : 

Send  some  message  from  Thy  Word, 
That  may  joy  and  peace  afford; 
Comfort  those  who  weep  and  mourn, 
Let  "the  time  of  love"  return. 

I  have  repeated  these  words  many  times  as  my  brethren  have 
spoken  and  they  have  left  comfort,  understanding,  and  faith  in  my  heart 
and  an  added  appreciation  for  my  membership  in  the  Church  and  for 
this  great  latter-day  work. 

I  desire  to  call  attention  to  an  incident  in  the  life  of  the  Master, 
which  is  recorded  in  the  17th  chapter  of  Luke.  The  Master  was 
traveling  towards  Jerusalem.  He  passed  through  Galilee  and  Sa- 
maria and  entered  a  certain  village  where  he  was  met  by  ten  lepers. 
A  leper  could  not  enter  nor  live  in  a  village  or  town.  Hence  these 
unfortunate  creatures  accosted  the  Master  while  he  was  still  outside 
the  village.  Misery  had  broken  down  all  race  prejudice,  for  we  find 
the  Samaritan  and  the  Jew  among  these  ten  unfortunates.  No  doubt 
they  had  heard  of  the  wonderful  works  of  the  Master.  They  stood 
afar  off  and  cried,  "Jesus,  Master,  have  mercy  on  us." 

The  Master,  full  of  sympathy  and  love  for  suffering  humanity, 
sent  hope  into  the  hearts  of  these  ten  men  in  these  words,  "Go,  show 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


yourselves  to  the  priests,"  and  as  they  went  they  discovered  that 
they  were  healed. 

The  scriptures  say,  "And  one  of  them,  when  he  saw  he  was 
healed,  turned  back  and  with  a  loud  voice  glorified  God  and  fell 
down  on  his  face  at  the  Master's  feetj  giving  him  thanks,  and  he  was 
a  Samaritan." 

The  Master  said,  "Were  there  not  ten  cleansed?  But  where  are 
the  nine?"  None  returned  to  give  glory  to  God  and  thank  their 
benefactor  for  a  deliverance  from  worse  than  death,  save  this  Sa- 
maritan. 

Brother  George  Teasdale  on  one  occasion  said,  "Ingratitude  is 
such  a  heinous  offense  that  nobody  ever  admitted  being  guilty  of 
it."  I  have  always  remembered  his  comment  on  ingratitude.  On  the 
other  hand,  gratitude  is  a  state  of  being  grateful,  having  a  feeling 
of  thankfulness  for  benefits  or  kindnesses  received  and  grateful  senti- 
ments toward  a  benefactor. 

Great  changes  are  taking  place  in  our  civilization.  We  are 
passing  through  serious  situations.  Unemployment  and  drouth 
have  become  serious  problems  and  have  affected  many  of  our  people. 
Some  have  become  dissatisfied.  It  is  not  easy  for  a  man  to  keep 
happy  when  his  family  is  in  need.  The  Church  has  done  much  to 
relieve  the  suffering  and  distress  of  its  members. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  in  spite  of  all  these  trying  conditions, 
there  is  reason  to  be  thankful  to  our  Father  in  heaven  for  the  many 
blessings  which  we  still  enjoy.  While  many  of  the  things  which  I 
shall  mention  have  already  been  referred  to  during  this  conference, 
I  think  it  not  amiss  to  reiterate  them  in  this  closing  session  that  we 
may  cherish  a  deep  sense  of  appreciation  for  our  blessings. 

We  are  living  in  the  most  important  age  of  the  world's  history— 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times— a  day  of  the  restitution  of  all 
things  spoken  by  the  mouths  of  holy  prophets  since  the  world  began. 
Prophets  of  old  have  looked  forward  to  this. day- and  have  longed  to 
see  it.  Is  it  not  a  privilege  to  live  in  this  day  when  great  world  move- 
ments preparatory  to  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  God  are  in  progress  ? 

We  are  living  in  a  choice  land,  a  land  choice  above  all  other 
lands,  which  is  reserved  for  the  people  of  God.  As  long  as  we  keep 
his  commandments,  the  Lord  has  said  we  shall  prosper  in  this  land. 
It  is  a  land  of  freedom.  Liberty  and  democracy  still  prevail.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  were  directed  to  these  valleys  of  the  mountains  by 
living  prophets  of  God.  In  vision,  President  Brighajm  Young  be- 
held this  place,  and  when  with  his  natural  eyes  he  saw  the  valley,  he 
said,  "This  is  the  place."  Here  in  these  mountain  valleys  we  have 
been  gathered  to  develop  the  highest  type  of  civilization  the  world 
has  ever  known,  in  preparation  for  the  coming  of  the  Savior. 

God  has  again  spoken  from  the  heavens.  True  knowledge  of 
the  personality  of  the  Godhead  has  been  revealed.  A  great  prophet 
has  arisen.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  stands  at  the  head  of  this 
dispensation.    The  Gospel,  the  science  of  salvation,  has  been  re- 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


125 


stored.  It  is  the  source  of  all  man's  spiritual  and  temporal  g-uidance. 
The  Book  of  Mormon,  a  new  witness  for  God,  which  contains  the 
fulness  of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  has  been  translated  by  the  gift  and 
power  of  God.  The  priesthood,  the  power  to  legitimately  act  in  the 
name  of  God,  together  with  all  necessary  gifts,  powers  and  blessings, 
has  been  restored.  Thousands  upon  thousands  have  received  this 
priesthood.  It  was  an  inspiring  sight  on  Saturday  evening  to  see 
more  than  six  thousand  brethren  gathered  in  this  building  at  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting. 

We  are  here  to  accomplish  God's  purposes,  to  become  a  great 
and  mighty  people,  not  in  wealth,  but  in  faith  and  power  to  do  good. 
We  are  engaged  in  the  most  important  work  in  the  world's  history! 
It  is  our  privilege  to  assist  in  the  establishment  of  God's  work  upon 
the  earth.  . 

It  is  our  privilege  to  listen  to  the  voice  of  prophets,  apostles  and 
leaders  of  this  Church  and  hear  from  them  the  living  word  of  God, 
for  they  speak  to  us  under  the  power  and  influence  of  the  Holv 
Spirit. 

Have  we  not  much  for  which  to  be  thankful  ?  Our  hearts  should 
be  filled  with  gratitude  for  the  privilege  of  living  in  this  time,  in 
this  place,  with  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  our  heritage,  and  for 
prophets  of  God  to  lead  us,  and  that  we  are  permitted  to  assist  in 
bringing  about  the  purposes  of  the  Lord. 

No  matter  what  our  surroundings  and  circumstances  may  be, 
let  us  hold  fast  to  our  living  faith.  Let  not  our  ideals  be  wrested 
from  us.  Let  us  contemplate  often  our  blessings  and  hold  fast  to  the 
enduring  things  of  life,  that  which  will  bring  us  riches  of  soul— the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

May  we  cultivate  gratitude.  The  spirit  of  gratitude  always 
brings  happiness.  If  we  have  this  virtue  we  are  more  God-like.  May 
we  cultivate  a  thankful  attitude  towards  God  and  our  fellowmen. 
We  will  express  our  thankfulness  for  our  blessings  to  our  Father  in 
heaven  in  daily  prayer  and  show  our  love  for  him  by  keeping  his  com- 
mandments, in  giving  service  in  his  cause,  in  contributing  of  our 
means  for  furthering  his  work,  and  in  praise  and  song.  The  spirit 
of  gratitude  will  grow  in  our  hearts  as  we  express  it,  and  it  will  be 
^eliminated  and  grow  in  the  hearts  of  those  about  us.  Let  us  teach 
it  m  our  homes  to  our  children,  that  they  may  grow  up  with  thank- 
ful hearts,  that  the  spirit  of  discontent  and  unrest  which  is  in  the 
world  may  not  affect  their  lives.  Let  us  follow  the  advice  given  in 
our  song,  "Count  Your  Many  Blessings": 

When  upon  life's  billows  you  are  tempest  tossed, 
When  you  are  discouraged,  thinking  all  is  lost, 
Count  your  many  blessings,  name  them  one  by  one, 
And  it  will  surprise  you,  what  the  Lord  hath  done'. 

May  we,  like  the  Samaritan,  have  grateful  hearts  and  glorify 
God  for  our  blessings,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JAMES  M.  PETERSON 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

I  have  been  delighted,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  know  you  have, 
with  the  splendid  things  of  this  conference.  My  heart  has  been  touched 
with  the  testimonies  given  us  by  the  General  Authorities.  I  have  been 
.  given  new  courage  to  go  on  in  the  tasks  assigned  to  me  in  this  great  work, 
as  I  know  you  have.  The  thing  that  I  think  has  touched  me  most  in 
this  conference  is  the  statement  that  was  read  in  the  first  session  by 
President  McKay  relating  to  the  growth  and  development  of  the  Church. 
That  statement  reminded  me  of  the  words  of  one  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
prophets  to  the  effect  that  man  is  that  he  might  have  joy. 

My  heart  rejoices  that  more  people  are  coming  into  this  great 
Church,  that  their  lives  may  be  made  better  and  happier,  because  in  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  there  is  happiness,  there  is  joy — that  joy  which 
we  can  obtain  through  no  other  labor.  I  rejoice  in  the  growth  and  ad- 
vancement of  the  Church. 

I  am  grateful  beyond  expression,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I 
have  been  called  into  the  service,  if  I  may  make  that  statement.  I  have 
been  in  the  service  a  great  many  years,  but  for  a  year  or  more  not  in 
direct  activity.  I  am  so  grateful  that  my  brethren  of  the  General  Author- 
ities found  me  worthy  to  go  into  the  world  to  preach  the  Gospel,  the  mes- 
sage of  savlation  and  of  life.  I  cannot  tell  you  how  grateful  I  am  for 
this  confidence  and  I  feel  that  no  greater  blessing  can  come  to  anyone. 

God  bless  us  that  we  may  be  faithful  in  this  great  work  and  valiant 
in  carrying  forward  the  banner  of  truth,  that  his  blessings  may  guide 
and  direct  us  in  all  our  endeavors  to  further  his  work,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

President  of  the  California  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  orthodox.  I  believe  in  Jesus  Christ. 
I  believe  in  Joseph  Smith,  and  I  know  that  I  understand  the  Savior's 
life  better  because  of  that  which  has  come  to  me  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  I  believe  just  as  sincerely  and  truly  in  Heber  J.  Grant.  I 
have  known  him  personally  for  years,  and  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  no  greater  in  doing  his  work  than  President  Grant  is  in  doing  his. 
I  have  been  inspired  by  his  utterances.  I  have  marveled  at  his  strength, 
at  his  kindness,  and  at  the  manner  in  which  he  has  stood  as  our  prophet, 
seer  and  revelator. 

I  believe  in  being  obedient  to  this  Church  and  to  this  doctrine,  for 
I  know  that  as  was  said  of  old  by  Isaiah,  "If  ye  be  willing  and  obedient 
ye  shall  eat  the  good  of  the  land."  Therefore,  I  know  that  those  who  are 
faithful  and  true  in  the  performance  of  their  duties  in  this  Church  shall 
not  be  crushed  by  this  depression.  They  shall  be  happy  and  in  their 
families  love  shall  abide. 


ULDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH  127 

• 

For  the  past  sixty  months  I  have  been  sending  out  into  the  world 
approximately  $50.00  a  month  to  my  two  sons  as  they  have  performed 
missionary  labors  in  far-off  lands — $3000.00.  A  tremendous  sum  it 
seems  to  me  and  far  more,  I  think,  than  any  man  should  send  to  his  son 
to  maintain  him  while  performing  missionary  labors,  but  it  was  the 
custom — so  much  was  necessary  in  certain  missions.  I  have  thought  of 
the  words  of  our  Savior  when  he  sent  forth  his  apostles  to  preach  with- 
out purse  or  scrip,  and  I  find  as  I  read  in  the  84th  Section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  that  in  our  day  God  gave  the  same  counsel  and  ad- 
vice to  his  servants  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  we  should 
go  to  the  nations  of  the  earth  and  preach  the  Gospel  without  purse  or 
scrip.  I  am  reminded  that  a  few  days  ago  in  a  missionary  report  meet- 
ing in  the  California  Mission,  after  each  of  the  missionaries  had  ex- 
pressed himself  and  told  what  it  had  cost  him  to  live  during  the  past 
months,  one  of  them  said:  "Since  I  have  been  here  I  have  had  five 
pairs  of  garments  given  to  me  by  my  own  people.  My  father  and  mother 
are  dead,  but  I  love  this  Church  and  I  knew  that  inasmuch  as  the  Christ 
had  said  that  we  were  to  preach  the  Gospel  without  purse  or  scrip  it 
could  be  done.  I  have  marveled  as  the  months  have  passed  by  that  my 
shirts  have  outlasted  the  shirts  of  my  companions,  my  suit  has  outlasted 
the  suits  of  my  companions ;  and  during  the  two  years  that  I  have  been 
serving  in  this  mission  I  have  not  received  a  cent  from  any  of  my  peo- 
ple. I  have  preached  the  Gospel  without  purse  or  scrip,  President  Smith, 
and  I  want  to  stay  here  as  long  as  you  want  me  to  stay  here  and  con- 
tinue to  serve  because  I  have  been  blessed." 

I  noted  his  appearance — the  best  dressed  man  we  had  in  the  room. 

Then  his  district  president  arose  and  said,  "I  want  to  bear  testi- 
mony to  what  Elder  Rolfe  has  just  said.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  I  have 
had  four  suits  while  he  has  had  the  one  which  he  is  now  wearing.  I 
spend  $25.00  a  month  and  he  has  spent  nothing.  Now  I  have  been  noti- 
fied that  my  money  is  finished,  but  I  want  to  volunteer  now,  President 
Smith,  to  stay  another  six  months  and  be  permitted  to  serve  as  this  loyal 
man  has  served,  without  purse  or  scrip,  in  this  great  cause." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  where  do  you  think  these  men  got  such  ideas  ? 
They  have  lived  in  that  mission  under  the  inspiration  of  the  man  who 
formerly  presided  there,  Elder  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley.  They  believed 
what  he  taught  them — they  believed  in  God,  and  they  knew  that  God 
would  sustain  and  support  them,  and  so  they  have  gone  forth.  The 
missionaries  now  are  getting  along  on  $10  a  month  and  less.  Some  are 
spending  $25.00,  but  we  are  encouraging  them  to  stay  within  $10.00. 
The  lady  missionaries  naturally  need  more.  The  Lord  has  blessed  them 
and  been  with  them,  and  the  spirit  of  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  shall  never  die 
so  long  as  there  is  a  California  Mission.  God  bless  that  mission.  I 
thank  the  brethren  for  honoring  me  and  permitting  me  to  go  there.  I 
•  am  grateful  to  you  for  your  faith  and  prayers.  Your  boys  and  girls  are 
doing  a  wonderful  work.  The  Lord  is  with  them.  May  his  spirit  ever 
be  with  his  Church,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

A  young  man  who  claims  to  have  counted  the  audience  at  our 
meetings  from  day  to  day  announces  that  there  are  8,029  people  here 
this  afternoon,  and  that  there  have  been  in  this  building  during  the 
conference  sessions  50,562  people.    I  hope  he  is  correct. 

I  should  be  very  pleased  if  I  had  the  time  to  make  some  remarks, 
but  by  the  time  the  choir  has  sung  an  anthem  and  the  closing  prayer 
has  been  offered  the  radio  will  be  disconnected,  and  it  would  not 
be  fair  to  the  people  who  are  listening  to  the  radio  broadcast  for  me 
to  try  to  say  anything  and  they  not  hear  it.  I  offer  my  apologies  to 
the  leading  brethren  who  are  here  who  expected  to  speak  but  did  not 
have  an  opportunity  to  do  so. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  BLESSINGS  OF  CONFERENCE 

I  earnestly  and  sincerely  express  my  gratitude  to  the  Lord  for 
this  conference.  Like  all  the  conferences  that  I  have  attended  during 
the  past  fifty-two  years,  it  is  the  best  we  have  ever  had.  I  have  heard 
that  expression  regarding  all  the  general  conferences  of  the  Church ; 
and  the  only  way  that  I  can  account  for  it  is  that  we  are  hungry,  and 
the  same  bread  and  butter  tastes  a  little  better  when  we  have  an  ap- 
petite than  it  does  otherwise  although  it  is  the  same  material.  We 
have  indeed  been  blessed  of  the  Lord,  and  I  am  grateful  for  his  bless- 
ing. 

I  am  thankful  beyond  my  ability  to  express  myself  for  the 
opportunity  we  had  last  Sunday  morning  at  12  :30  to  broadcast  a  mes- 
sage to  the  people  of  the  world. 

DELIGHTED  WITH  THE  SINGING  AT  CONFERENCE 

I  wish  to  endorse  all  that  has  been  said  in  regard  to  the  singing 
to  which  we  have  listened  during  this  conference.  We  were  charmed 
and  delighted  with  the  singing  by  the  choir  from  Manti,  and  by  the 
Singing.  Mothers,  as  also  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

An  anthem,  "O,  Great  is  the  Depth,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 
Elder  Charles  R.  Jones,  President  of  the  Arizona  Temple,  pro- 
nounced the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

The  singing  at  the  Friday  sessions  of  the  Conference  was  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  under  the  direction  of  Charlotte  O. 
Sackett ;  at  the  two  sessions  on  Saturday  by  the  Manti  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Ellis  E.  Johnson;  and  at  the  Sunday  sessions  by 'the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Anthony  C.  Lund. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Frank  Asper  and  Wade  N.  Stephens. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of   52 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J     19 

Learning  of  God's  will  essential,  19 — Authority  to  interpret  divine 
will  provided,  20 — -Authority  not  bestowed  upon  successors,  20 — 
John  recognized  as  the  leader,  21 — Restoration  of  authority  essen- 
tial, 21- — Deliverance  from  present  ills  through  obedience,  22  . 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0  121 

31uth,  Elder  John  V.  104 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   15 

-Moving  toward  a  glorious  ideal,  15 — God's  purposes  will  be  ac- 
complished, 16 — In  the, promotion  of  peace,  16 — Events  preceding 
Christ's  second  advent,  17 — A  day  of  the  Lord,  17 — War  a  penalty 
for  crimes,  18 — When  the  great  day  of  the  Lord  comes,  18 — The 
monster  we  create,  18. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers   4 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   89 

Tribute  and  counsel  to  Choir,  89 — Sustaining  governments  and 
laws  a  fundamental  precept,  90 — Governments  instituted  of  God, 
90 — Accountable  to  the  Lord,  90 — Two  declarations  of  equal  wis- 
dom, 91 — Freedom  of  worship,  91 — World-wide  Church,  92 — 
Personal  and  property  rights  protected,  92 — Loyalty  to  rule  of 
law, '92 — Divine  word  regarding  human  government,  93 — Religion 
and  the  Constitution,  93- — Endeavoring  to  establish  modern  pagan- 
ism, 94 — Fundamentals  of  Constitution  God-given,  94 — Elemental 
principles  of  Constitution,  94 — No  dictatorship  in  America,  95 — 
In  need  of  convictions,  95 — Our  opportunity  and 'mission,  95. 

Clawson,  Elder  Rudger   64 

The  importance  of  motherhood  and  fatherhood,  64 — The  mystery 
and  purpose  of  life,  65 — Opinions  of  a  French  writer,  65 — When 
the  Almighty  speaks,  65 — The  first  estate,  66 — In  the  second 
estate — a  living  soul,  66 — Those  who  kept  not  their  first  estate, 
67 — Mortality  a  blessed  privilege,  67 — The  importance  of  marriage, 
67 — Two  kinds  of  marriage,  68. 

Colton,  Elder  Don  B   68 

Financial  Statement   2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   28 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

Forsberg,  Elder  Gustave  W  106 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church   52 

General  Authorities  Present   1 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


General  Auxiliary  Officers   5 

General  Officers  of  the  Church   5 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  

Church  growth,  6 — Grateful  for  change  in  sentiment,  7 — The  gift 
of  faith,  7 — Speaks  to  world,  8 — Claim  of  authority,  8 — Regarding 
governments,  8— Our  message  to  the  world,  9 — Wide  ministry,  9 — 
Grateful  for  faith,  10 — Need  of  obedience,  11 — Individual  testi- 
monies, 11 — Patriarchal  blessings,  11 — The  Adversary's  decree  re- 
buked, 12— Blessings  fulfilled,  12— The  gift  of  tongues,  13— 
Other  Articles,  14— God's  plan,  14. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   5 

Stake  to  be  organized  in  Hawaii,  51. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   52 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities,  52 — Presentation  of  General 
Officers,  53 — General  Auxiliary  Officers,  54. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   54 

Y.  M.  M.  I.  A.  Board  reorganized,  54. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.   103 

Not  time  to  hear  from  all,  103. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  '.  121 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  128 

Grateful  for  blessings  of  conference,  128 — Delighted  with  the  sing- 
ing at  conference,  128. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K   49 

Hinckley,  Elder  Alonzo  A   71 

The  army  of  the  Lord,  71— The  source  of  their  strength,  72— 
At  the  head  of  the  Church,  72— Every  man  knows  his  calling, 
73— The  magnitude  of  this  work,  73— Only  on  principles1  of  right- 
eousness, 74— The  boy  of  twelve,  74— The  Lord's  way,  75— He 
who  keeps  his  armor  bright,  75— An  awful  condition,  75. 

Jones,  Elder  Miles  L   105 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden   35 

Kirkham,  Elder  James  M  107 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   116 

Thus  on  to  eternal  perfection,  116— Religion,  the  world's  greatest 

need,  117— Testimony— examination    meetings,    117  Tests  by 

Church  standards,  118— "All  these  things  have  I  kept,"  118  

Perfection  through  religion,  119— Seven  examinations,  119— Or- 
dained Elders  at  nineteen,  119— Satisfying  a  natural  craving,  120— 
Youth  to  be  guarded,  120. 

McKay,  President  David  O   HO 

The  home   an  important   factor   in   stable   government,   110 — 

Marriage  a  divine  institution,  110— Inspiration  oi  high  ideals,  110  

Encroaching  clangers,  1 1 1— Responsibility  of  parenthood,  112— 


INDEX 


131 


Three  things  to  which  every  child  is  entitled,  113 — Sense  of  se- 
curity, 114 — Supplementing  the  home,  114 — Lists  safeguards,  115 — 
Home  building  paramount,  115 — Marriage  ordained  of  God,  116. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   2 

Financial  statement,  2 — Statistical  and  other  data,  3 — Changes  in 
Church  officers,  4. 

Peterson,  Elder  James  M  126 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr   86 

Richards,  Elder  George  F  100 

Rejoices  in  blessings  of  the  conference,  100 — Under  the  curse, 
100 — Has  love  for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  101 — Have  not  forgotten 
God,  101 — Expresses  love  for  mankind,  101 — Must  hear  the  Gospel, 
102 — In  behalf  of  the  dead,  102 — -Love  of  God  and  fellow  men,  103. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   39 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   28 

True  definition  of  orthodoxy,  28 — Clear  thinking  necessary,  29- — 
Intelligent  belief  consistent,  29 — Truth  a  requisite,  30 — Not  hard 
to  have  faith,  30 — Acceptance  of  Joseph  Smith,  31 — Lame  at- 
tempts, 31 — Right  of  succession,  31 — Fundamentals  unchanged, 

32 —  Indifferent  and  critical  members,  32 — Disposition  to  criticize, 

33 —  True  worship  overcomes  criticism,  33 — A  plea  to  the  indiffer- 
ent, 34. 

Richards,  Elder  Wilford  W   37 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting    71 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   52 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   76 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert    43 

A  child's  faith  and  understanding,  43 — Those  who  diligently  seek 
him,  43 — The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  44 — Teaching  in  the  home, 

44 —  The  truth  made  manifest,  44 — Greater  than  secular  knowledge, 

45 —  Blessings  through  missionary  service,  45 — All  must  hear  the 
Gospel,  45 — The  purpose  of  this  assemblage,  46 — The  importance 
of  sacred  music,  47 — An  incident  in  the  Southern  States,  47 — Our 
responsibility  to  disseminate  the  truth,  47 — In  our  own  communi- 
ties, 48 — Grateful  for  privileges,  48. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   ,   96 

Meaning  of  civilization,  96 — Fundamental  things  enduring,  97 — 
The  decree  of  the  Lord  concerning  the  wicked,  97 — The  great  day 
of  the  Lord  nigh,  98 — True  civilization,  99. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G  126 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   f   55 

Gifts  from  God,  55 — Striving  toward  perfection,  55 — The  employ- 
ment situation,  56 — Foreign  obligations,  56 — Our  financial  burden, 
57 — Live  within  your  means,  57 — Great  faith  demonstrated,  58 — 
Sustain  the  Presidency,  58. 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Statistical  Report    3 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H   84 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  109 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   89 

Wells,  Elder  John  123 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S  .  .  .    23 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.   79 

The  things  that  pertain  to  God,  79- — Notable  events  in  Church 
history,  80 — A  most  remarkable  revelation,  80 — Building  the 
Church  of  Christ,  81 — Building  for  eternal  life,  81— The  manner  of 
its  coming,  81 — Two  important  lessons,  82 — Missionary  work 
established,  82 — Value  of  missionary  work,  83 — -The  effect  upon 
the  missionary,  83. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   58 


m 


A  Few  of  the  Books  that  will 
Help  You  to  Understand 
'Mormon  ism" 

The  Book  of  Mormon 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same  but  there  are  added  features  which  make  the  edition  more  complete. 

Missionary  Edition   #  .50 

Cloth  binding,  embossed   1.50 

Full  Morocco    3.00 

The  Gospel  and  Man's  Relationship  to 

Deity 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

"It  is  to  place  within  their  reach  a  brief  and  simple  exposition  of  the  first  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  that  this  work  has  been  prepared,  and  is  now  presented  to  the! 
youth  of  Zion;  and  it  is  the  earnest  hope  of  the  author  that  by  a  patient  perusal  of 
these  pages  those  who  now  believe  the  Gospel  will  find  their  faith  strengthened  and 
confirmed;  and  those  who  do  not  believe  it  will  be  convinced  of  its  truth." 

Price   #1.25 

The  Story  and  Philosophy  of 
"Mormon  ism" 

BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Comprising  "The  Story"  as  told  in  addresses  at  Cornell  and  Michigan  Universities 
and  elsewhere,  followed  by  an  address  delivered  at  the  Panama-Pacific  Exposition, 


entitled  "The  Philosophical  Basis  of  'Mormonism.'  " 

Cloth   $  .75 

In  Search  of  Truth 

BY  ELDER  JOHN  A  WIDTSOE  OF  THE  QUORUM  OF  THE  TWELVE 
Bound  in  Art  Cloth  $1.00 


This  new  book  answers  the  questions,  "What  is  Science"  and  "How  does  the 
Church  view  Science."    A  practical  book  for  our  THINKING,  young  people. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


Mormonism 

and 

Freemasonry" 

By 

Anthony  W.  Ivins 


"This  brief  treatise  is  addressed  primarily  to  the  members 
of  the  Masonic  fraternity.  The  author  requests  Masons  and 
others  who  may  read  it  to  patiently  consider  its  contents,  and 
in  a  spirit  of  fairness  and  reason  determine  whether  the 
ground  taken  by  the  writer  is  truth  or  error." 


Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

+  2%  Sales  Tax  in  Utah 
Distributed  by  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


