Owl  dtundhsxL  J  warty,  -MivsmJtk. 
SEMI-ANNUAL 


conffRfiicf 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Ofdbb&c  5,  6  ami  7,  1956 


With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Printed  In  th«  United  State*  «f  America  I 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-Seventh  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-seventh 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday, 
October  5,  6,  and  7,  1956. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m., 
Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  was  held 
in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  evening, 
October  6,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  the  following  stations  made  avail- 
able to  their  listening  or  viewing  audi- 
ences one  or  more  of  the  six  general 
sessions : 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KSUB  at 
Cedar  City,  KVEL  at  Vernal,  KVNU  at 
Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KRXK  at  Rexburg,  KEEP 
and  KLIX-TV  at  Twin  Falls,  KBAR  at 
Burley,  KID  and  KID-TV  at  Idaho 
Falls,  KBOI  and  KBOI-TV  at  Boise, 
KPST  at  Preston,  KLEW-TV  at  Lewis- 
ton. 

In  Colorado:  KEXO  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion, KBTV  at  Denver. 

In  Nevada:  KELY  at  Ely,  KLAS-TV 
at  Las  Vegas. 

In  California:  KEEN  at  San  Jose, 
KSRO  at  Santa  Rosa,  KGO-TV  at  San 
Francisco,  KNXT-TV  at  Hollywood, 
KEYT-TV  at  Santa  Barbara,  KFMB-TV 
at  San  Diego,  KOVR-TV  at  Stockton. 

In  Oregon:  KUBE  at  Pendleton, 
KOIN-TV  at  Portland,  KBES-TV  at 
Medford. 

In  Arizona:  KCLS  at  Flagstaff,  KTYL 
at  Mesa,  KPHO-TV  at  Phoenix. 

In  Washington:  KTNT-TV  at  Ta- 
coma,  KXLY-TV  at  Spokane,  KIMA-TV 
at  Yakima,  KEPR-TV  at  Pasco. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  on 
Temple  Square,  in  Barratt  Hall  (60 


North  Main  Street),  over  a  loudspeaking 
system  and  by  television.  Thousands, 
in  addition,  listened  to  the  services  on 
the  Tabernacle  grounds  by  means  of 
amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  were  broadcast  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall,  over  public 
address  systems,  and  by  direct  wire  over 
a  public  address  system  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  in  other  assemblies  in 
Utah,  Idaho,  Colorado,  New  York, 
Washington,  Oregon,  Arizona,  Wyo- 
ming, Nevada,  Illinois,  New  Mexico, 
Canada,  and  California. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  includ- 
ing the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcast- 
ing Company's  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast  is  also  included  in  this 
record,  as  is  also  a  full  account  of  Co- 
lumbia's Church  of  the  Air  program. 
(See  pages  127-131.) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards,  and  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Henry  D.  Moyle, 
Delbert  L.  Stapley,  Marion  G.  Romney, 
LeGrand  Richards,  Adam  S.  Bennion, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  and  George  Q.  Morris. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young, 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Hugh  B.  Brown,  and 
Sterling  W.  Sill. 


2  GENERAL  C 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  Seymour  Dilworth 
Young,  *,  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  and 
Marion  Duff  Hanks. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  and  A.  William 
Lund,  Assistant. 


*Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  was  absent 
because  of  illness. 


Members  of  the  General  Welfare 
Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  Church  Board  of  Educa- 
tion and  Administrator  Church  Board  of 
Education,  Directors  and  Associate  Di- 
rectors of  Institutes,  and  Seminary  In- 
structors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  Their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  General, 
Stake  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 


FIRST 
MORNING 

The  opening  session  of  the  127th 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
convened  in  the  great  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  October  5, 
1956  at  10:00  a.m.,  with  President  David 
O.  McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  Northern  Utah  Region,  Ogden 
Region,  and  Summit  Stake,  with  Flor- 
ence J.  Madsen  conducting  and  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ,  furnished  the 
choral  music  for  this  session. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  opening  session  of  the  127th 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
now  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

All  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  are  in  attendance,  excepting 
Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  whose  attending 
physician  telephoned  us  the  other  day, 
saying  it  would  be  be  unwise  for  Elder 
Hunter  to  attempt  to  attend  Conference 
as  perfect  quiet  is  necessary  for  his 
restoration  to  health.  Elder  Hunter,  you 
have  our  faith  and  prayers  this  morning 
for  your  complete  recovery. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

These  services,  and  all  General  Ses- 
sions of  the  Conference,  will  be  broad- 
cast in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt 
Hall  over  a  public  address  system  and 
by  television. 

The  services  this  morning  are  also 
being  televised  over  KSL-TV,  Channel 
5,  and  are  being  heard  over  Radio  Sta- 
tion KSL  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  over  10  Radio  Stations  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  and  Nevada.  The  names  of  these 
stations  have  already  been  announced 
to  the  radio  audience. 

We  express  our  gratitude  to  these  vari- 
ous television  and  radio  stations  for  their 
courtesy  in  making  available  their  time 
and  facilities  for  these  broadcasts. 

To  the  audience  seated  in  the  Taber- 


DAY 

MEETING 

nacle  and  the  Assembly  Hall  and  to  the 
thousands  listening  in  over  the  radio, 
the  First  Presidency  and  General  Author- 
ities of  the  Church  extend  a  most  hearty 
welcome,  and  pray  that  we  may  receive 
encouragement  and  inspiration  during 
our  attendance  at  this  great  Conference 
of  the  Church. 

I  wish  to  announce,  too,  that  we  have 
greetings  from  missions  and  from  others 
who  wish  us  well.  One  of  these  comes 
from  New  Zealand,  from  President  Ariel 
S.  Ballif,  president  of  that  mission.  "The 
love  of  the  Saints  and  the  thoughts  of 
all  Church  members  in  New  Zealand 
are  now  turned  toward  the  assembly  of 
our  leaders  and  the  great  congregation 
of  Saints.  We  send  our  'Aroha-Nui" 
and  bear  witness  to  you  of  our  testi- 
mony of  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel 
in  the  great  activity  of  our  people  here  in 
the  land  of  Aotearoa.  We  long  for  the 
inspiration  that  comes  from  our  Church 
leaders.  We  are  looking  forward  to  the 
time  when  we  shall  have  the  blessing 
of  a  general  visit  to  our  land." 

To  the  members  of  the  Air  Force  and 
others  in  the  armed  forces,  we  extend  a 
hearty  welcome.  Many  are  here  in  the 
audience,  some  with  their  respective  offi- 
cers, and  they  propose  to  attend  the 
services  throughout. 

We  acknowledge  the  presence  of  the 
following  distinguished  visitors  and 
others  who  hold  prominent  positions  in 
educational  circles  and  in  the  State. 
We  are  not  sure  that  we  have  been  able 
to  observe  all  who  are  present,  but  we 
mention  the  following: 

Elder  Benson,  member  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  and  also  in  the  Cabinet 
of  the  President  of  the  United  States; 
Senator  Wallace  F.  Bennett;  Representa- 
tive William  A.  Dawson;  Representative 
H.  Aldous  Dixon;  Lamont  Toronto,  Sec- 
retary of  State;  Adiel  F.  Stewart,  Mayor 
of  Salt  Lake  City;  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson, 
president  of  Brigham  Young  University; 
President  A.  Ray  Olpin,  president  of  the 
University  of  Utah;  President  John  L. 
Clarke,  president  of  Ricks  College. 

We  have  a  letter,  an  expression  of 
appreciation,    from   the  president  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  5 

Weber  College;  we  have  present  Super- 
intendent of  Public  Instruction  E.  Allen 
Bateman;  and  the  Superintendent  of  Salt 
Lake  City  Schools,  Dr.  M.  Lynn  Ben- 
nion. 

Undoubtedly  there  are  others  to  whom 
as  to  these  we  extend  a  hearty  welcome. 
We  are  glad  to  see  you  and  have  you 
participate  in  these  exercises  and  par- 
take of  the  spirit  of  this  occasion. 

We  also  have  before  us  our  Stake 
Presidencies,  the  Bishoprics  of  the 
Church,  and  we  also  have  the  wives  of 
our  mission  presidents  who  have  come 
here  to  attend  the  dedicatory  services 
of  the  beautiful  Relief  Society  home. 

To  all  we  extend  a  hearty  welcome 
and  express  satisfaction  and  pleasure 
in  your  presence  and  your  cooperative 
spirit. 

The  singing  for  this  morning  will  be 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  from  the  Northern  Utah 
Region,  Ogden  Region,  and  Summit 
Stake,  with  Sister  Florence  J.  Madsen 


First  Day 

conducting,  with  Frank  W.  Asper  at 
the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  singing: 
"In  Heavenly  Love  Abiding,"  conducted 
by  Sister  Florence  J.  Madsen. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Francis  M.  Zimmerman,  president 
of  the  Long  Beach  Stake. 

Singing  by  the  Singing  Mothers,  "In 
Heavenly  Love  Abiding." 

Elder  Francis  M.  Zimmerman,  presi- 
dent of  the  Long  Beach  Stake  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
President  Francis  M.  Zimmerman  of 
the  Long  Beach  Stake,  California. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  sing:  "The  Lord's  Prayer," 
conducted  by  Sister  Florence  J.  Madsen. 

"The  Lord's  Prayer"  was  sung  by  the 
Singing  Mothers. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


The  passing  of  years  and  the  repeti- 
tion of  experience  fail  to  lessen  the 
sense  of  great  responsibility  of  ad- 
dressing the  congregation  in  this  great 
tabernacle  and  others  listening  in  over 
the  radio.  I  have  prayed  and  now  pray 
for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  that  I 
may  be  able  to  perform  this  duty  ac- 
ceptably to  him  and  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters. 

What  I  have  in  mind  I  should  like 
to  associate  with  this  passage  of  scrip- 
ture taken  from  Matthew: 

"Then  said  Jesus  unto  his  disciples, 
If  any  man  will  come  after  me,  let  him 
deny  himself,  and  take  up  his  cross,  and 
follow  me. 

"For  whosoever  will  save  his  life  shall 
lose  it:  and  whosoever  will  lose  his 
life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it. 

"For  what  is  a  man  profited,  if  he 
shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose 
his  own  soul?  or  what  shall  a  man  give 
in  exchange  for  his  soul? 

"For  the  Son  of  man  shall  come  in 
the  glory  of  his  Father  with  his  angels; 
and  then  he  shall  reward  every  man 


according  to  his  works."  (Matt.  16:24- 
27.) 

Before  emphasizing  one  or  more  par- 
ticular points  contained  in  that  re- 
markable passage,  I  should  like  to  give 
a  brief  report  regarding  some  activities 
of  the  Church  since  our  conference  six 
months  ago.  During  that  interim  the 
Church  has  been  moving  forward  most 
encouragingly.  Priesthood  quorums  have 
increased  in  number,  particularly  in  the 
mission  field,  and,  through  the  efficient 
efforts  of  the  priesthood  committees 
among  the  General  Authorities,  a  greater 
enrolment  in  the  quorums  generally  has 
resulted.  There  are  today  in  the  stakes 
and  missions  of  the  Church  237  high 
priests  quorums;  449  seventies  quorums 
and  17  units;  1,750  elders  quorums  and 
two  units;  171  quorums  and  1,725 
groups  of  priests;  737  quorums,  and 
1,230  groups  of  teachers;  1,988  quorums, 
and  551  groups  of  deacons. 

Those  are  all  organizations  estab- 
lished by  revelation  for  activity  in  spir- 
itual things,  as  well  as  temporal,  for 
boys,  and  for  young  men  under  nineteen 


PRESIDENT  D 

years  of  age,  most  of  them  seventeen 
and  eighteen. 

The  general  boards  of  auxiliaries  are 
functioning  efficiently,  and  local  organ- 
izations are  co-operating  with  them  in 
earnest  efforts  to  instil  high  ideals  in 
the  minds  of  childhood  and  youth. 

It  is  a  sobering  thought,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  to  realize  that  all  quorums, 
all  auxiliaries,  all  Church  schools, 
seminaries,  institutes,  colleges,  the 
Church  university,  all  Church  edifices, 
all  preparations  of  lessons,  the  expendi- 
ture of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  dollars 
monthly  for  the  publication  of  books, 
equipment,  illustrative  material,  and  so 
forth — all  efforts  of  thousands  of  officers 
and  teachers — are  for  one  purpose: 
namely,  the  education  and  proper  train- 
ing of  your  boys  and  girls  and  the 
edification  of  all  members  of  the  Church. 
Everything  that  has  been  and  is  now 
being  done  points  to  that  one  general 
purpose.  Do  you  appreciate  it  by  co- 
operating with  these  forces  and  sending 
your  young  children,  and  your  young 
men  and  women  to  these  various  organ- 
izations in  the  Church?  If  not,  you  are 
shirking  part  of  your  duty. 

We  have  only  words  of  commenda- 
tion to  the  Twelve,  the  Assistants  to  the 
Twelve,  and  other  General  Authorities, 
including  the  Presiding  Bishopric;  to 
the  general  boards,  the  members  of  the 
general  Church  building  committee,  the 
stake  and  ward  officers,  each  and  all 
working  for  the  good  of  the  individual 
to  bring  to  pass  the  Lord's  purposes,  who 
declared:  ".  .  .  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man."  (P  of  G  P, 
Moses  1:39.) 

You  will  be  interested  to  learn  that 
since  the  first  of  the  year  there  have 
been  136  Church  edifices  dedicated.  It 
is  estimated  that  in  the  final  quarter  of 
1956  there  will  possibly  be  added  to  this 
number  forty-four  more  buildings,  mak- 
ing a  total  of  buildings  dedicated  in 
English-speaking  wards  and  stakes  and 
missions  of  180.  In  foreign  missions  it 
is  estimated  that  there  will  be  some- 
where in  the  neighborhood  of  fifty  to 
sixty  houses  of  worship  dedicated  in  this 
year  1956,  making  a  total  in  all  of  ap- 
proximately 240. 

A  means  to  an  end!  From  the  stand- 
point of  numbers  and  material  pros- 


V1D  O.  McKAY  5 

perity,  therefore,  the  Church  has  every 
reason  to  be  encouraged.  All  these 
things,  I  repeat,  are  means  to  the  per- 
fecting of  the  soul — that  is  the  end. 

The  great  question  is:  Have  we 
progressed  spiritually  as  well  as  in  these 
physical  and  teaching  organizations? 
The  answer  is  "yes." 

The  accomplishments  before  men- 
tioned, the  efforts  put  forth,  are  in  them- 
selves really  expressions  of  spirituality, 
and  here  we  offer  in  our  hearts  a  prayer 
that  God  will  bless  the  total  membership 
of  the  Church  who  have  contributed  of 
their  means,  talents,  and  efforts  to  the 
accomplishment  of  the  purposes  named, 
the  means,  and  structures  and  Church 
edifices  especially.  It  is  marvelous  what 
you  have  done. 

"Every  noble  impulse,  every  unselfish 
expression  of  love,  every  brave  suffering 
for  the  right;  every  surrender  of  self  to 
something  higher  than  self;  every  loy- 
alty to  an  ideal;  every  unselfish  devotion 
to  principle;  every  helpfulness  to  hu- 
manity; every  act  of  self-control;  every 
fine  courage  of  the  soul,  undefeated  by 
pretense  or  policy,  but  by  being,  doing, 
and  living  of  good  for  the  very  good's 
sake — that  is  spirituality." 

And  our  text  emphasizes  the  fact  that 
the  human  being  consists  of  spirit  and 
body:  "For  what  is  a  man  profited,  if  he 
shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his 
own  soul?  or  what  shall  a  man  give  in 
exchange  for  his  soul?"  (Matt.  16:26.) 

Indeed,  man's  earthly  existence  is  but 
a  test,  whether  he  will  concentrate  his 
efforts,  his  mind,  his  soul  upon  things 
which  contribute  to  his  comfort  and 
gratification  of  his  physical  instincts 
and  passions,  or  whether  he  will  make 
as  his  life's  purpose  and  aim  the  acquisi- 
tion of  spiritual  qualities. 

The  spiritual  road  has  Christ  as  its 
ideal,  not  the  gratification  of  the  physi- 
cal, for  he  that  would  save  his  life,  yield- 
ing to  that  present  gratification  of  a 
seeming  need,  will  lose  his  life. 

If  he  would  seek  the  real  purpose  of 
life,  the  individual  must  live  for  some- 
thing higher  than  self.  He  hears  the 
Savior's  voice  saying:  "I  am  the  way,  the 
truth,  and  the  life."  (John  14:6.)  Fol- 
lowing that  voice,  he  soon  learns  that 
there  is  no  one  great  thing  which  he 
can  do  to  attain  happiness  or  eternal 


6  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  5 

life.  He  learns  that  "life  is  made  up  not 
of  great  sacrifices  or  duties,  but  of  little 
things  in  which  smiles  and  kindness 
and  small  obligations  given  habitually 
are  what  win  and  preserve  the  heart  and 
secure  comfort." 

Spirituality,  our  true  aim,  is  the  con- 
sciousness of  victory  over  self  and  of 
communion  with  the  Infinite.  Spiritual- 
ity impels  one  to  conquer  difficulties 
and  acquire  more  and  more  strength. 
To  feel  one's  faculties  unfolding  and 
truth  expanding  the  soul  is  one  of  life's 
sublimest  experiences.  Would  that  all 
might  so  live  as  to  experience  that 
ecstasy! 

Being  "honest,  true,  chaste,  benevo- 
lent, virtuous,  and  in  doing  good  to  all 
men"  are  attributes  which  contribute  to 
spirituality,  the  highest  acquisition  of 
the  soul.  It  is  the  divine  in  man,  the 
supreme,  crowning  gift  that  makes  him 
king  of  all  created  things. 

The  spiritual  life  is  the  true  life  of 
man.  It  is  what  distinguishes  him  from 
the  beasts  of  the  forests.  It  lifts  him 
above  the  physical,  yet  he  is  still  sus- 
ceptible to  all  the  natural  contributions 
that  life  can  give  him  that  are  needful 
for  his  happiness  or  contributive  to  his 
advancement.  "Though  in  the  world, 
not  of  the  world."  (See  John  8:23.) 

Jesus  taught  that  men  and  women  fail 
to  live  truly,  unless  they  have  spiritual- 
ity. In  Jefferson's  Life  and  Teachings  of 
Jesus,  we  read  that  the  spiritual  force 
underlies  everything,  and  without  it 
nothing  worthwhile  can  be  accom- 
plished. And  I  quote:  "Spiritual  needs 
can  be  met  only  by  spiritual  means. 
All  government,  laws,  methods,  and  or- 
ganizations are  of  no  value  unless" 
spirituality  guides  them.  All  "men  and 
women  are  filled  with  truth,"  with  this 
spirituality — and  "righteousness,  and 
mercy.  Material  things  have  no  power 
to  raise  the  sunken  spirit.  Gravitation, 
electricity,  and  steam  are  great  forces, 
but  they  are  all  powerless  to  change  the 
motives  of  men  and  women."  "Except  a 
man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the 
kingdom  of  God."  (See  John  3:3.) 

Spirituality  and  morality  as  taught 
by  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  are  firmly 
anchored  in  fundamental  principles — 
principles  from  which  the  world  can 
never  escape  even  if  it  would,  and  the 


First  Day 

first  fundamental  is  a  belief — and  among 
the  members  of  the  Church  who  are 
truly  converted,  a  knowledge — of  the 
existence  of  God  the  Father  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ.  Children  of  the  Church  are 
taught,  at  least  should  be  taught,  to 
recognize  him  and  to  pray  to  him  as 
one  who  can  listen  and  hear  and  feel 
just  as  an  earthly  father  can  listen  and 
hear  and  feel,  and  they  have  absorbed 
into  their  very  beings,  if  taught  rightly, 
from  their  mothers  and  their  fathers, 
the  real  testimony  that  this  personal 
God  has  spoken  in  this  dispensation. 

Inseparable  from  the  acceptance  of 
the  existence  of  God  is  an  attitude  of 
reverence,  to  which  I  wish  now  to  call 
attention  most  earnestly  to  the  entire 
Church.  The  greatest  manifestation  of 
spirituality  is  reverence;  indeed,  rever- 
ence is  spirituality.  Reverence  is  pro- 
found respect  mingled  with  love.  It  is 
"a  complex  emotion  made  up  of  mingled 
feelings  of  the  soul."  Carlyle  says  it  is 
"the  highest  of  human  feelings."  I  have 
said  elsewhere  that  if  reverence  is  the 
highest,  then  irreverence  is  the  lowest 
state  in  which  a  man  can  live  in  the 
world.  Be  that  as  it  may,  it  is  never- 
theless true  that  an  irreverent  man  has 
a  crudeness  about  him  that  is  repellent. 
He  is  cynical,  often  sneering,  and  al- 
ways iconoclastic. 

Reverence  embraces  regard,  deference, 
honor,  and  esteem.  Without  some  de- 
gree of  it,  therefore,  there  would  be  no 
courtesy,  no  gentility,  no  consideration 
of  others'  feelings,  or  of  others'  rights. 
Reverence  is  the  fundamental  virtue  in 
religion.  It  is  "one  of  the  signs  of 
strength;  irreverence,  one  of  the  surest 
indications  of  weakness.  No  man  will 
rise  high,"  says  one  man,  "who  jeers 
at  sacred  things.  The  fine  loyalties  of 
life,"  he  continues,  "must  be  reverenced 
or  they  will  be  foresworn  in  the  day  of 
trial." 

Parents,  Reverence,  as  charity,  begins 
at  home.  In  early  childhood  children 
should  be  trained  to  be  respectful, 
deferential — respectful  to  one  another, 
to  strangers  and  visitors — deferential  to 
the  aged  and  infirm — reverential  to 
things  sacred,  to  parents  and  parental 
love. 

Three  influences  in  home  life  awaken 
reverence  in  children  and  contribute  to 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


7 


its  development  in  their  souls.  These 
are:  first,  firm  but  Gentle  Guidance;  sec- 
ond, Courtesy  shown  by  parents  to  each 
other,  and  to  children;  and  third,  Prayer 
in  which  children  participate.  In  every 
home  in  this  Church  parents  should 
strive  to  act  intelligently  in  impressing 
children  with  those  three  fundamentals. 

Reverence  in  the  houses  of  worship: 
Churches  are  dedicated  and  set  apart 
as  houses  of  worship.  This  means,  of 
course,  that  all  who  enter  do  so,  or  at 
least  pretend  to  do  so,  with  an  intent 
to  get  nearer  the  presence  of  the  Lord 
than  they  can  in  the  street  or  amidst 
the  worries  of  a  workaday  life.  In  other 
words,  we  go  to  the  Lord's  house  to  meet 
him  and  to  commune  with  him  in 
spirit.  Such  a  meeting  place,  then, 
should  first  of  all  be  fitting  and  appro- 
priate in  all  respects,  whether  God  is 
considered  as  the  invited  guest,  or  the 
worshipers  as  his  guests. 

Whether  the  place  of  meeting  is  a 
humble  chapel  or  a  "poem  in  archi- 
tecture" built  of  white  marble  and  in- 
laid with  precious  stones  makes  little 
or  no  difference  in  our  approach  and 
attitude  toward  the  Infinite  Presence. 
To  know  God  is  there  should  be  suffi- 
cient to  impel  us  to  conduct  ourselves 
orderly,  reverently. 

In  this  regard,  as  members  of  the 
Church  in  our  worshiping  assemblies, 
we  have  much  room  for  improvement. 
Presiding  authorities  in  stake,  ward,  and 
quorum  meetings,  and  especially  teach- 
ers in  classes,  should  make  special 
effort  to  maintain  better  order  and 
more  reverence  during  hours  of  wor- 
ship and  of  study.  Less  talking  behind 
the  pulpit  will  have  a  salutary  effect 
upon  those  who  face  it.  By  example  and 
precept,  children  should  be  impressed 
with  the  inappropriateness  of  confusion 
and  disorder  in  a  worshiping  congrega- 
tion. They  should  be  impressed  in 
childhood,  and  have  it  emphasized  in 
youth,  that  it  is  disrespectful  to  talk  or 
even  to  whisper  during  a  sermon,  and 
that  it  is  the  height  of  rudeness,  except- 
ing in  an  emergency,  to  leave  a  worship- 
ing assembly  before  dismissal. 

One  of  the  most  pronounced  out- 
bursts of  Jesus'  indignation  was  caused 
by  the  desecration  of  the  Lord's  temple. 
As  he  overturned  the  tables  of  money- 


changers and  ordered  out  those  who 
were  bartering  and  trading  in  the  holy 
sanctuary,  he  gave  a  warning  admoni- 
tion that  has  come  down  through  the 
centuries: 

".  .  .  make  not  my  Father's  house  an 
house  of  merchandise."  (John  2:16.) 
Making  and  spending  money,  even  in 
conversation,  faultfinding,  and  particu- 
larly gossiping  about  neighbors  in  a 
house  of  worship,  are  essentially  viola- 
tions of  this  command  given  nearly  two 
thousand  years  ago. 

If  there  were  more  reverence  in  hu- 
man hearts,  there  would  be  less  room 
for  sin  and  resultant  sorrow;  more  capa- 
city for  joy  and  gladness.  To  make 
more  cherished,  more  adaptable,  more 
attractive  this  gem  among  brilliant  vir- 
tues, is  a  project  worthy  of  the  most 
united  and  prayerful  efforts  of  every 
officer,  every  parent,  and  every  member 
of  the  Church. 

I  repeat  now: 

"If  any  man  will  come  after  me,  let 
him  deny  himself,  and  take  up  his 
cross,  and  follow  me. 

"For  whosoever  will  save  his  life 
shall  lose  it;  and  whosoever  will  lose 
his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it. 

"For  what  is  a  man  profited,  if  he  shall 
gain  the  whole  world,  [physical  desires, 
gratification  of  appetites,  money,  wealth] 
— gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his 
own  soul?  or  what  shall  a  man  give  in 
exchange  for  his  soul? 

"For  the  Son  of  man  shall  come  in  the 
glory  of  his  Father  with  his  angels; 
and  then  he  shall  reward  every  man  ac- 
cording to  his  works."  (Matt.  16:24-27.) 

In  these  words  of  the  Savior  we  have 
designated  either  by  direct  statement  or 
implication  four  eternal  truths — 

First,  the  existence  of  God  our  Eternal 
Father. 

Second,  the  divine  Sonship  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

Third,  that  man  has  a  spirit  as  well 
as  a  body,  and  he  may  direct  his  life  to 
serve  him, 

Fourth,  that  soul  development  results 
from  complete  control  of  physical  de- 
sires and  passions. 

With  that  scripture  in  conclusion  I 
desire  to  call  attention  to  another  funda- 
mental truth: 


8 

Friday,  October  5 

"...  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to 
come  forth  among  the  children  of  men. 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the 
service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and 
strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless 
before  God  at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve 
God  ye  are  called  to  the  work; 

"For  behold  the  field  is  white  already 
to  harvest;  and  lo,  he  that  thrusteth  in 
his  sickle  with  his  might,  the  same  lay- 
eth  up  in  store  that  he  perisheth  not, 
but  bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul; 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love, 
with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God, 
qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge, 
temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kind- 
ness, godliness,  charity,  humility,  dili- 
gence. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

"Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive;  knock,  and 
it  shall  be  opened  unto  you."  (D  &  C 
Sec  4.) 

That  this  work  has  come  forth  and 
is  now  established  by  divine  revelation 
testifying  to  the  existence  of  God  the 
Father,  his  son  Jesus  Christ,  and  that 
through  Jesus  Christ  and  his  gospel 
mankind  will  be  brought  back  into  his 
presence,  I  bear  witness  to  you,  and  to 
the  world,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Bishop  Thorpe 
B.  Isaacson  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  I  am  Sure 
you  can  appreciate  my  feelings  in 
occupying  this  position  following 
the  impressive  address  to  which  we  have 
just  listened.  I  trust  that  what  I  shall 
say  may  add  to  your  faith. 

You  will  remember  that  following  the 
crucifixion  of  the  Savior  and  his  resur- 
rection, he  tarried  with  his  disciples  for 
some  forty  days,  giving  them  instruc- 
tions and  administering  to  them  the  Sac- 
rament of  the  Lord's  Supper.  Then  he 
assured  them  that  as  he  left  them,  he 
would  again  come  in  like  manner  to 
bless  the  children  of  men.  He  enjoined 
upon  the  Twelve  that  they  should  tarry 
in  Jerusalem  until  they  could  be  en- 
dowed with  power  from  on  high;  then 
they  were  to  go  forth  and  to  proclaim 
the  gospel,  his  gospel,  to  all  nations,  a 
message  of  eternal  life. 

So,  following  these  events,  we  find  the 
people  gathered  "with  one  accord"  on 
the  Day  of  Pentecost,  and  Peter,  feeling 
this  great  power  that  had  been  promised, 
declared  to  the  multitude  Jesus  Christ 
and  him  crucified.  We  are  told  that 
"they  were  pricked  in  their  hearts,"  im- 
pressed by  the  Spirit,  and  they  cried 
with  one  accord,  "Men  and  brethren, 
what  shall  we  do?" 


Then  Peter  taught  them  the  basic 
principles  of  the  gospel,  that  they  should 
repent  and  be  baptized  for  the  remis- 
sion of  their  sins;  and  he  promised 
them  that  they,  too,  would  have  the 
blessings  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  had 
rested  upon  him  and  others  of  the 
Twelve.  Later,  we  find  Peter  and  John 
going  up  to  the  temple. 

Now  Peter  and  John  went  up  together 
into  the  temple  at  the  hour  of  prayer,  being 
the  ninth  hour. 

And  a  certain  man  lame  from  his 
mother's  womb  was  carried,  whom  they  laid 
daily  at  the  gate  of  the  temple  which  is 
called  Beautiful,  to  ask  alms  of  them  that 
entered  into  the  temple; 

Who  seeing  Peter  and  John  about  to  go 
into  the  temple  asked  an  alms. 

And  Peter,  fastening  his  eyes  upon  him 
with  John,  said,  Look  on  us. 

And  he  gave  heed  unto  them,  expecting  to 
receive  something  of  them.  [Something  ma- 
terial.] 

Then  Peter  said,  Silver  and  gold  have  I 
none;  but  such  as  I  have  give  I  thee:  In 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth  rise 
up  and  walk. 

And  he  took  him  by  the  right  hand, 
and  lifted  him  up:  and  immediately  his 
feet  and  ankle  bones  received  strength. 

And  he  leaping  up  stood,  and  walked, 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


and  entered  with  them  into  the  temple, 
walking  and  leaping,  and  praising  God. 

And  all  the  people  saw  him  walking  and 
praising  God: 

And  they  knew  that  it  was  he  which  sat 
for  alms  at  the  Beautiful  gate  of  the  temple: 
and  they  were  filled  with  wonder  and 
amazement  at  that  which  had  happened 
unto  him. 

And  as  the  lame  man  which  was  healed 
held  Peter  and  John,  all  the  people  ran 
together  unto  them  in  the  porch  that  is 
called  Solomon's,  greatly  wondering.  (Acts 
3:1-11.) 

When  the  fame  of  this  miracle  spread, 
people  gathered  from  near  and  far  to 
listen  to  the  message,  as  they  had  on 
the  Day  of  Pentecost.  Among  these 
people  were  some  who  doubtless  had 
participated  in  the  crucifixion  of  Jesus. 
They  had  not  realized  what  they  had 
done.  Then  Peter,  preaching  to  them, 
said: 

And  now,  brethren,  I  wot  that  through 
ignorance  ye  did  it,  as  did  also  your  rulers, 
[I  know,  using  the  old  English  expression, 
"I  wot,"  I  know  that  through  ignorance  ye 
did  it,  as  did  also  your  rulers.] 

But  those  things,  which  God  before  had 
shewed  by  the  mouth  of  all  his  prophets, 
that  Christ  should  suffer,  he  hath  so  ful- 
filled. 

Repent  ye  therefore,  and  be  converted, 
that  your  sins  may  be  blotted  out,  when  the 
times  of  refreshing  shall  come  from  the 
presence  of  the  Lord; 

And  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ,  which 
before  was  preached  unto  you: 

Whom  the  heaven  must  receive  until  the 
times  of  restitution  of  all  things,  which 
God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his 
holy  prophets  since  the  world  began.  (Ibid., 
3:17-21.) 

There  are  three  things,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  I  would  like  to  touch 
on  in  connection  with  these  scriptures 
which  I  have  read.  Time  will  not 
permit  my  enlarging  on  them. 

The  first  one:  "Silver  and  gold  have 
I  none;  but  such  as  I  have  give  I  thee." 
Then  the  power  of  God  was  manifested, 
and  he  was  healed — not  by  silver  and 
gold,  not  by  something  tangible,  but  an 
inward  power  to  the  afflicted,  a  power 
just  as  real  and  more  potent  than  had 
he  received  silver  and  gold.  It  is  some- 
thing that  stimulates  our  souls  and 
builds  our  faith,  prompts  us  to  live 
nearer  our  Heavenly  Father  and  more 
fully  to  keep  his  commandments. 


As  we  listened  to  President  McKay, 
I  had  a  feeling  that  if  we  could  leave 
this  conference  with  the  inspiration  and 
mellowing  influence  of  the  President's 
message,  we  would  have  an  influence  for 
good  wherever  we  go  and  with  those 
with  whom  we  come  in  contact,  and 
our  communities  would  reap  a  blessing 
thereby. 

It  is  very  much  like  the  feelings  and 
emotions  that  are  stirred  within  us 
when  we  attend  a  funeral  service.  Our 
hearts  are  drawn  in  love  and  sympathy, 
and  we  leave  feeling  that  if  there  is 
anything  we  can  do  to  bring  comfort 
to  an  aching  heart,  we  will  do  it.  I 
have  wondered  many  times  if  the  Lord 
has  not  given  us  trials,  even  death,  in 
order  that  our  hearts  might  be  touched, 
that  we  might  feel  something  that  is 
greater  than  silver  and  gold. 

So  it  is  here  this  morning.  We  have 
heard  President  McKay  quote  this  verse 
which  I  would  like  to  give  on  this  occa- 
sion.  It  is  so  appropriate. 

If  there  is  righteousness  in  the  heart, 

There  will  be  beauty  in  the  character. 
If  there  is  beauty  in  the  character, 

There  will  be  harmony  in  the  home. 
If  there  is  harmony  in  the  home, 

There  will  be  order  in  the  nation. 
If  there  is  order  in  the  nation, 

There  will  be  peace  in  the  world. 

One  step  after  another  leads  to  a 
life  of  peace.  How  much  better  the 
world  could  be  and  would  be  if  we 
could  be  conscious  of  the  spiritual  forces, 
inspiring  such  attributes  as  love  and 
devotion. 

Another  phase  I  would  like  to  mention 
here:  Peter  said  to  the  people  who  were 
gathered,  "[I  know]  I  wot  that  through 
ignorance  ye  did  it.  .  .  .  Repent  ye 
therefore,  and  be  converted.  .  .  ."  Here 
we  have  Peter,  who  was  raised  under 
the  Mosaic  law  with  its  strict  codes,  and 
yet  the  Spirit  promised  by  the  Savior 
had  rested  upon  him,  and  here  he  mani- 
fested sympathy  toward  even  those  who 
had  participated  in  the  crucifixion  of 
the  Savior,  because  they  knew  not  what 
they  had  done.  He  was  teaching  the 
lesson  that  Jesus  had  taught  while  on 
the  cross  when  he  said,  "Father,  forgive 
them  for  they  know  not  what  they 
do."* 

*The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  interpreted  this  prayer 
as  referring  to  the  Roman  soldiers. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


10 

Friday,  October  5 

So  Peter  said,  I  know  that  what  ye 
did  ye  did  in  ignorance;  therefore,  re- 
pent. What  a  blessed  privilege,  and 
what  a  source  of  consolation  it  is,  to 
know  that  it  is  in  our  knowledge  of 
things  for  which  we  are  held  responsi- 
ble. The  Lord  recognizes  that  his  chil- 
dren are  not  always  aware  of  the  things 
required  of  them,  and  hence  his  com- 
passion and  love  are  extended  to  his 
children.  The  great  principle  of  re- 
pentance is  vouchsafed  to  them,  that 
they  may  turn  from  error  and  evil  and 
return  to  God  and  feel  the  power  of 
these  blessings  that  come  through  faith- 
fulness and  devotion  to  his  work  when 
once  his  work  is  understood  by  his  chil- 
dren. So  we  have  in  this  a  message  of 
hope. 

Finally,  as  Peter  said,  "Repent  and  be 
converted."  We  need  conversion  in  our 
homes.  We  need  to  correct  some  of  the 
practices  of  faultfinding,  of  miscon- 
struing motives. 

Now  we  are  in  the  throes  of  a  politi- 
cal campaign.  Whatever  we  do,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  let  us  not  impugn  the 
motives  of  our  brethren  because  they 
do  not  agree  with  us;  and  may  they  not 
question  our  motives.  Let  us  recognize 
principle.  We  may  disagree  with  our 
neighbors  as  to  policy  or  methods,  but 
let  us  not  question  the  integrity  of  any- 
one. This  leads  to  bearing  of  false  wit- 
ness. It  leads  to  enmity  and  the  canker- 
ing of  one's  soul.  I  think  much  of  the 
unhappiness  found  in  homes  is  due  to 
faultfinding  and  questioning  of  motives. 
We  need  to  cultivate  the  spirit  of  un- 
derstanding and  forbearance.  We  can 
have  this  spirit  if  we  kneel  together  in 
prayer  and  if  we  show  a  sympathetic 
interest  in  one  another's  problems,  in 
the  problems  of  our  children.    Be  in- 


First  Day 

terested  in  them  and  in  their  well- 
being. 

I  was  impressed  recently  in  going 
into  the  home  of  one  of  our  stake  presi- 
dents in  Logan.  He  and  his  wife  have 
two  lovely  boys.  One  of  them  was 
going  out  on  a  Scout  trip  during  the 
week  to  win  a  merit  badge.  Do  you 
know  that  good  mother  of  the  boy 
who  was  only  twelve  years  old  was 
taking  her  sleeping  bag  and  going  to 
camp  out  with  him  under  the  stars  to 
give  him  guidance  and  help,  knowing 
that  in  his  extreme  youth  he  needed 
that  guidance? 

As  I  learned  of  this,  I  thought,  "What 
an  ideal  mother!  What  a  lovely  spirit 
to  have  in  a  home!"  That  is  what  we 
need.  We  need  to  be  converted  to 
some  of  the  old  concepts  and  to  carry 
them  out  in  our  lives.  Then  we  will 
have  righteousness  in  our  hearts.  We 
will  have  joy  and  peace  in  the  world 
because  of  the  blessings  given  unto  us 
by  our  Heavenly  Father  through  his 
divine  Spirit,  blessings  that  were  given 
to  the  disciples  on  the  Day  of  Pente- 
cost, that  they  might  proclaim  the 
truth. 

May  we  not  only  be  able  to  pro- 
claim the  truth  in  word,  but  also  in 
deed!  May  we  be  able  to  take  from 
this  meeting  the  spirit  of  this  solemn 
occasion  with  its  impressiveness  into 
our  homes,  our  wards,  and  stakes,  and, 
above  all,  into  our  lives,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  will  be  our  next  speaker. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark,  my  dear  brothers 
and  sisters,  and  friends  of  the  radio 
and  television  audience,  I  wish  every 
person  in  this  vast  congregation  could 
stand  here  and  look  at  this  beautiful 
sight,  with  a  background  of  these  beauti- 


ful Singing  Mothers.  I  humbly  pray 
that  I  may  have  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers,  that  I  shall  say  noth- 
ing that  will  detract  from  the  beautiful 
addresses  that  we  have  already  listened 
to. 

There  is  great  strength  that  comes  to 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


11 


those  who  attend  the  sessions  of  the 
general  conferences  of  the  Church,  or 
to  those  who  listen  to  them  over  radio 
and  television.  Those  who  read  the 
conference  messages  will  be  strength- 
ened in  their  faith  because  these  confer- 
ences, in  the  planning  of  them,  every- 
thing that  is  said  and  done  here  is  done 
under  the  inspiration  of  God,  our  Eter- 
nal Father.  You  must  know,  of  course, 
that  we  come  to  you  very  humbly,  full 
of  love,  prayerful,  and  dependent  upon 
the  Lord. 

I  would  like  to  use  as  my  theme  for 
a  few  moments  verses  five  and  six  from 
the  third  chapter  of  Proverbs.  My  rea- 
son for  deciding  upon  this  theme  is 
that  recently  I  have  had  contacts  with 
a  few  young  men,  fine  young  men,  who 
for  one  reason  or  another  have  been 
confused.  Teachers  have  disturbed 
them,  and  they  were  seeking  counsel. 

Trust  in  the  Lord  with  all  thine  heart; 
and  lean  not  unto  thine  own  understanding. 

In  all  thy  ways  acknowledge  him,  and 
he  shall  direct  thy  paths. 

That  is  the  best  advice  that  I  could 
give  to  any  person  who  may  be  dis- 
turbed. I  think  to  follow  that  course 
would  give  us  the  answer  to  any  prob- 
lem or  any  sorrow  or  any  disturbance 
with  which  we  may  now  or  later  be 
confronted. 

"Lean  not  unto  thine  own  under- 
standing." That  scripture  reminds  me, 
if  I  may  inject  it  without  being  mis- 
understood, of  the  proceedings  at  the 
inauguration  nearly  four  years  ago  of 
President  Dwight  D.  Eisenhower,  where 
he  bowed  his  head  and  prayed  because 
he  felt  the  need  for  divine  aid  and  guid- 
ance. 

That  same  course  has  been  followed 
by  other  great  leaders.  In  fact,  as  I 
have  tried  to  study  great  men,  I  could 
not  find  one  who  has  not  followed  that 
same  practice.  This  was  even  true  of 
Jesus,  the  Son  of  God,  as  he  went  into 
the  Garden  of  Gethsemane.  It  was  my 
pleasure  to  stand  there  a  couple  of  years 
ago,  in  Jerusalem,  and  when  I  think 
now  of  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane  on 
the  outskirts  of  Jerusalem,  I  think  of 
the  place  where  Jesus,  the  Son  of  God, 
went  to  pray.  He  did  not  lean  on  his 
own  understanding,  but  there  he  went, 
not  once,  but  on  many  occasions,  seek- 


ing strength  from  his  Father.  This  was 
particularly  true  the  night  before  his 
crucifixion  when  he  desired  to  be  blessed 
and  sustained  by  his  Father  to  go 
through  the  ordeal  that  was  to  face  him 
on  the  morrow. 

Our  beloved  Prophet  Joseph  did  not 
lean  on  his  own  understanding.  No, 
he  went  into  the  Sacred  Grove  to  seek 
divine  guidance.  As  I  stood  on  the 
banks  of  the  Susquehanna  River  some 
months  ago,  I  could  not  help  thinking 
of  the  visit  that  Joseph  and  Oliver 
made  to  the  banks  of  that  river  when 
they  needed  divine  guidance,  and  they 
could  not  lean  on  their  own  under- 
standing. They  went  to  that  secluded 
place  close  to  his  home  where  they,  too, 
knelt  down  on  their  knees  and  asked 
God  to  reveal  his  will  unto  them,  and 
he  sent  a  heavenly  messenger,  John  the 
Baptist,  to  deliver  his  message.  "Lean 
not  unto  thine  own  understanding." 

I  have  always  felt  bad  to  think  that 
that  great  organization  as  we  know  it — 
the  United  Nations,  composed  of  repre- 
sentative leaders  throughout  the  world — 
studying  and  planning  and  trying  to 
solve  the  problem  of  a  just  and  ever- 
lasting peace,  do  not  open  their  sessions 
with  prayer.  A  man  who  attended  that 
session  once  reported  to  me  that  he 
went  away  from  there  sad.  There  was 
confusion;  there  was  anger;  there  was 
disagreement.  There  had  been  no  peti- 
tion to  the  Lord  asking  for  divine  guid- 
ance, and  yet  the  very  peace  of  the 
world  largely  hinges  on  that  great  body 
of  men.  Because  some  disbelieve  and 
some  will  not  admit  divine  guidance,  we 
are  denied  the  blessings  that  would  re- 
sult if  that  very  important  group  of 
men  would  call  upon  the  Lord  for  in- 
spiration and  guidance. 

What  would  our  Founding  Fathers 
think  of  that?  Our  Pioneer  fathers? 
Our  Pilgrim  fathers,  and  those  who 
formed  the  Constitution  of  this  land? 
They  did  not  lean  on  their  own  under- 
standing. I  hope  the  leaders  of  the  na- 
tions of  the  world  will  change  that 
policy  in  the  United  Nations  and  lean 
not  on  their  own  understanding. 

Recently  as  I  was  traveling  in  an  air- 
plane headed  for  Texas,  and  as  the 
luncheon  tray  was  served,  there  was  a 
card  on  that  tray,  the  first  that  I  had 
ever  seen,  on  which  was  inscribed:  "For 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


12 

Friday,  October  S 

those  who  want  to  say  ...  a  table 
grace."  I  felt  comforted  to  know  that 
in  traveling  in  a  plane,  someone  had 
had  the  spiritual  courage  to  understand 
and  recognize  that  a  table  grace  or 
prayer  was  appropriate  on  an  airplane, 
and  there  were  three  prepared  blessings. 
Then  at  the  bottom  were  inscribed  these 
words:  "You  may  bow  your  head  in 
prayer  if  you  so  desire."  I  thought  how 
appropriate  and  what  spiritual  courage 
and  faith  the  one  who  originated  that 
idea  possessed,  and  I  noticed  that  around 
that  plane,  there  were  others  who  silent- 
ly bowed  their  heads  and  thanked  the 
Lord  for  the  blessings  and  grace  on  that 
food. 

Recently  I  read  an  article.  I  do  not 
recall  the  paper  or  magazine.  It  indi- 
cated a  very  encouraging  religious  trend 
in  colleges  and  universities  throughout 
the  land.  In  our  colleges  and  universi- 
ties there  is  a  revival  of  religious  train- 
ing, and  it  is  having  a  dynamic  effect  on 
the  lives  of  the  young  people. 

There  was  a  time  in  academic  circles 
that  one  detected  sneering  at  religion 
as  an  "outworn  superstition,"  but  that 
is  past.  Courses  in  biblical  literature, 
Christian  ethics,  and  church  history  had 
almost  disappeared  from  the  curriculum, 
but  that  is  changing.  Many  educators 
have  detected  that  scoffing  has  now 
given  way  to  very  serious  inquiry.  Re- 
ligion again  is  "intellectually  respect- 
able" and  sound.  Students  and  teachers 
have  a  growing  disposition  to  seek  faith 
in  God,  and  they  realize  that  the  ulti- 
mate answers  lie  far  beyond  the  reach 
of  scientific  research. 

Many  of  our  large  universities  have 
now  experienced  a  great  growth  in  un- 
dergraduate study  for  religious  courses, 
and  many  churches  are  now  attracting 
crowds  that  overflow  their  meeting- 
houses. Attendance  at  religious  courses 
has  doubled.  Many  colleges  and  uni- 
versities now  hold  what  they  call  a 
"Religious  Emphasis  Week,"  and  spe- 
cialists have  found  that  eighty  percent 
recognize  the  need  for  religious  faith, 
and  now  there  are  very  few  who  will 
admit  atheism.  "Lean  not  on  thine 
own  understanding." 

Religion  in  all  its  forms  is  very  popu- 
lar and  a  significant  topic  in  formal 
debates  and  common  conversation  by 
intelligent  people  today.   In  the  educa- 


First  Day 

tional  world,  the  indifference  long  ac- 
corded religion  has  now  given  way.  It 
was  only  in  recent  years  that  the  study 
of  theology  was  merely  tolerated.  Today 
it  is  almost  a  universal  acknowledg- 
ment that  the  study  of  religion  right- 
fully belongs  to  every  person. 

That  new  interest  in  religion  is  wide- 
spread, and  many  have  come  to  recog- 
nize that  science  alone  cannot  measure 
up  to  expectations  in  providing  answers 
to  the  deepest  questions  of  religion,  and 
sometimes  religion  has  something  tre- 
mendous to  say  in  the  present  world 
struggle.  This  change  or  revival  is  one 
of  honest  and  intelligent  inquiry,  and 
students  are  approaching  courses  with 
open-mindedness. 

It  would  be  well  if  all  students  would 
place  religion  first  in  their  lives,  and 
this  would  give  them  faith  in  living  in 
the  world  today,  as  well  as  in  tomorrow's 
world.  The  love  of  God  and  the  seek- 
ing of  his  divine  guidance  will  lend 
strength  to  the  soul  of  every  person. 

Yes,  there  is  a  divine  spark  in  every 
man's  soul  that  never  wholly  goes  out. 
Religion  plays  a  great  part  in  the  life 
of  every  soul.  The  cycle  has  now  come 
around  full  turn.  Perhaps  once  we 
may  have  doubted  our  faith,  but  now 
we  have  come  to  doubt  our  doubts. 

The  Church  has  been  the  fountain- 
head  of  good  over  the  centuries,  and 
its  spiritual  message  of  God's  love  for 
man  has  brought  not  only  comfort  and 
pureness  of  heart  to  men  and  women 
down  through  the  ages,  but  it  has  also 
inspired  them  to  the  heights  of  achieve- 
ment when  they  turn  to  God  for 
strength. 

Young  people,  ask  and  it  shall  be 
given.  Watch  your  thinking,  young 
people.  Do  not  let  anyone  disturb  your 
thinking.  There  may  be  those  who 
lack  the  faith  of  your  forefathers.  Re- 
member, you  are  today  where  your 
thoughts  have  brought  you.  You  will 
be  tomorrow,  and  the  next  day,  and 
every  day  where  your  thoughts  will 
take  you.  "In  all  thy  ways  acknowl- 
edge him."  Keep  your  ideals.  Ideals 
are  like  the  stars:  You  cannot  touch 
them  with  your  hands,  but  like  the 
mariner,  you  can  use  them  for  your 
guidance;  and  if  you  follow  them,  they 
will  light  the  way,  and  you  will  reach 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


13 


your  destination.  But,  "lean  not  on 
thine  own  understanding."  Thank  God 
for  the  religious  purpose  of  the  member- 
ship of  the  Latter-day  Saint  Church. 

I  am  grateful  to  God  for  his  kindness 
and  blessings  unto  me.  I  know  that 
God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living  God.  I 
know  that  the  Prophet  today,  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  President  David  O. 
McKay,  is  God's  servant  on  the  earth. 
What  a  blessing  he  is  to  the  people, 
and  if  we  are  ever  in  doubt  in  knowing 
what  course  we  may  follow,  we  need 
only  stop  for  one  second  and  ask  one 
question  of  ourselves,  "What  would  the 
President  of  the  Church  do  in  a  similar 
position?" 

God  bless  us  with  great  faith,  not  with 
self-sufficiency,  that  we  may  not  lean 
on  our  own  understanding,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  addressed  us. 
The  Choir  and  Congregation  will  now 
join  in  singing,  "O  Say,  What  is  Truth?" 
under  the  direction  of  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall.  After  the  singing  Elder 
Marion  D.  Hanks  will  address  us,  and 
he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Marion  G. 
Romney,  who  will  be  our  concluding 
speaker. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is 
Truth?" 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to 
us. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  teaches  us 
that  the  salvation  and  exaltation  of 
men  are  made  possible  solely  through 
the  graciousness  and  goodness  and  love 
of  God  in  his  gift  to  us  of  his  Divine 
Son,  whose  life  exemplified  the  Father's 
purposeful  plan  for  abundant  living  and 
whose  sacrificial  death  made  available 
to  us  and  gave  us  a  vision  of  our  eternal 
possibilities  as  children  of  God.  From 
the  record  of  Nephi  we  read  these  im- 
pressive words: 

For  we  labor  diligently  to  write,  to  per- 
suade our  children,  and  also  our  brethren, 
to  believe  in  Christ,  and  to  be  reconciled 
to  God;  for  we  know  that  it  is  by  grace 
that  we  are  saved,  after  all  we  can  do. 
(2  Nephi  25:23.) 

The  records  of  latter-day  revelation, 
as  well  as  those  of  former  days,  attest 
to  the  great  truth  that  through  the  atone- 
ment of  Christ  all  men  will  certainly 
be  resurrected,  and  that  all  who  are 
willing  and  obedient  may  enjoy  the 
blessing  of  God's  great  gift  of  eternal 
life. 

The  Latter-day  Saint  understands  that 
through  the  gift  of  God,  through  the 
great  atoning  sacrifice  of  his  Divine 


Son,  all  that  we  might  achieve  is  made 
possible  for  us,  but  he  understands  also 
that  in  the  plan  of  God  it  is  necessary 
that  we  accept  this  free  gift  if  we  would 
enjoy  all  of  our  eternal  possibilities. 
For  the  Lord  told  his  people  through 
the  Prophet  in  1832, 

For  what  doth  it  profit  a  man  if  a  gift 
is  bestowed  upon  him,  and  he  receive  not 
the  gift?  Behold,  he  rejoices  not  in  that 
which  is  given  unto  him,  neither  rejoices 
in  him  who  is  the  giver  of  the  gift.  (D  &  C 
88:33.) 

What  must  we  do  to  "receive"  his 
gift?  The  answer  of  the  prophets  has 
been  the  same,  both  anciently  and  in 
this  dispensation,  both  in  the  eastern 
hemisphere  and  the  western.  Brother 
Clifford  Young  alluded  this  morning  to 
the  answer  given  by  Peter  at  Pentecost 
to  those  who,  having  been  pricked  in 
their  hearts  by  the  witness  of  Christ 
born  by  the  apostles,  asked  what  they 
must  do.  The  answer  was  clear  and 
unequivocal: 

Repent  and  be  baptized  every  one  of 
you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the 
remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  (Acts  2:38.) 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  5 

Nephi  in  his  parting  testimony  ex- 
pressed his  feeling  of  compassion  for  his 
own  people,  for  the  Jew,  and  for  the 
gentile,  and  said: 

But  behold,  for  none  of  these  can  I  hope 
except  they  shall  be  reconciled  unto  Christ, 
and  enter  into  the  narrow  gate,  and  walk 
in  the  straight  path  which  leads  to  life, 
and  continue  in  the  path  until  the  end  of 
the  day  of  probation.  (2  Nephi  33:9.) 

And  after  bearing  his  witness  of  the 
Messiah  to  his  people  this  same  prophet 
said: 

For  the  gate  by  which  ye  should  enter  is 
repentance  and  baptism  by  water;  and  then 
cometh  a  remission  of  your  sins  by  fire  and 
by  the  Holy  Ghost.  {Ibid.,  31:17.) 

In  1831  the  Lord  revealed  to  the 
Prophet  the  following: 

...  he  that  receiveth  my  gospel  receiveth 
me;  and  he  that  receiveth  not  my  gospel 
receiveth  not  me. 

And  this  is  my  gospel — repentance  and 
baptism  by  water,  and  then  cometh  the 
baptism  of  fire  and  the  Holy  Ghost.  .  .  . 
(D  &  C  39:5-6.) 

There  is  one  other  thought  companion 
to  these.  Testifying  that  fundamental 
to  everything  we  believe  and  hope  for 
and  have  faith  in  is  the  great  sacrifice 
of  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  knowing 
that  he  requires  of  us  that  we  accept 
his  great  gift,  there  is  something  else 
necessary  if  we  are  to  enjoy  the  high 
spiritual  possibilities  which  it  is  within 
our  capacity  to  achieve.  Let  me  refer 
to  the  teachings  of  Nephi  to  his  people 
after  he  had  taught  them  faith,  repent- 
ance, baptism,  and  the  reception  of  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  as  previously 
quoted.   Said  he, 

And  then  are  ye  in  this  straight  and  nar- 
row path  which  leads  to  eternal  life;  yea, 
ye  have  entered  in  by  the  gate;  ye  have 
done  according  to  the  commandments  of  the - 
Father  and  the  Son;  .  .  .  ■  '     -  - 


First  Day 

And  now,  my  beloved  brethren,  after  ye 
have  gotten  into  this  straight  and  narrow 
path,  I  would  ask  if  all  is  done?  Behold, 
I  say  unto  you,  Nay;  for  ye  have  not  come 
thus  far  save  it  were  by  the  word  of  Christ 
with  unshaken  faith  in  him,  relying  wholly 
upon  the  merits  of  him  who  is  mighty  to 
save. 

Wherefore,  ye  must  press  forward  with  a 
steadfastness  in  Christ,  having  a  perfect 
brightness  of  hope,  and  a  love  of  God  and 
of  all  men.  Wherefore,  if  ye  shall  press 
forward,  feasting  upon  the  word  of  Christ, 
and  endure  to  the  end,  behold,  thus  saith 
the  Father:  Ye  shall  have  eternal  life. 

And  now,  behold,  my  beloved  brethren, 
this  is  the  way;  and  there  is  none  other 
way  nor  name  given  under  heaven  whereby 
man  can  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of 
God  (2  Nephi  31:18-21.) 

We  accept  with  all  our  souls  the 
absolute  efficacy  and  essentiality  of  the 
atonement  of  Christ.  We  attest  to  the 
words  of  Peter  and  of  other  prophets 
ancient  and  modern  that  it  is  necessary 
for  us  to  accept  our  Heavenly  Father's 
gift  by  obedience  to  what  we  know  as 
the  first  principles  and  ordinances  of 
the  gospel.  We  know  also  that  if  we 
are  to  enjoy  the  high  possibilities  for 
which  we  are  created  and  which  we 
might  desire  as  children  of  God,  we  must 
build  upon  our  faith  and  obedience  with 
right  thinking  and  welldoing.  We  must 
press  forward  with  steadfastness  in 
Christ,  having  a  perfect  brightness  of 
hope,  and  a  love  of  God  and  of  all 
men.  Through  so  doing,  if  we  endure 
to  the  end,  we  shall  have  eternal  life. 
There  is  no  other  way. 

I  testify  of  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed 
us.  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker.  :"•'/-■.:/. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  The 
very   short  talk   just   given  by 
Brother  Marion  D.  Hanks  reminds 
me  of  an  experience  I  had  in  Provo  in 


the  early  days  of  my  ministry.  While 
I  was  attending  a  Utah  Stake  conference, 
President  Roy  Murdock  showed  me 
through  a  recently  remodeled  Church 


ELDER  MARK 

edifice.  I  expressed  satisfaction  with  it 
and  remarked  that  I  thought  they  had 
everything  in  it  that  they  would  need. 
He  said,  "Yes,  Brother  Romney,  we  have 
everything  we  need  except  a  trap  door 
behind  the  pulpit  to  let  the  speakers 
through  when  they  talk  too  long." 

We  do  not  need  a  trap  door  here  for 
Brother  Hanks.  I  appreciate  very  much 
his  yielding  so  much  time  to  me. 

I  was  tremendously  moved  by  Presi- 
dent McKay's  opening  address.  With  it 
he  set  this  conference  on  a  very  high 
spiritual  plane.  I  have  also  enjoyed 
what  the  brethren  who  have  followed 
him  have  said.  I  am  sure  that  what  I 
shall  say  will  be  anti-climax  to  President 
McKay's  great  talk,  but  I  hope  it  will 
be  in  harmony  therewith.  I  invite  you 
to  join  with  me  in  praying  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  will  bless  us  these  few 
minutes  while  I  speak,  to  the  end  that 
we  may  conclude  this  meeting  on  the 
same  high  plane  on  which  President 
McKay  launched  it. 

I  have  in  mind  making  a  few  remarks 
about  "the  perfecting  of  the  saints," 
which  Paul  listed  first  when,  in  writing 
to  the  Ephesians,  he  set  forth  the  pur- 
poses for  which  Church  officers  and 
teachers  were  given.  You  will  remem- 
ber that  he  said: 

And  he  gave  some,  apostles;  and  some, 
prophets;  and  some,  evangelists;  and  some, 
pastors  and  teachers; 

For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints.  .  .  .  (Eph. 
4:11-12.) 

It  has  been  said  that  the  major  re- 
sponsibilities resting  upon  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church  may  be  classified 
under  three  heads: 

1.  Preaching  the  gospel. 

2.  Performing  vicariously  the  saving 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  for  the  dead. 

3.  Perfecting  the  Saints. 

As  to  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  our 
obligation  is  to  carry  it  "unto  the  ends 
of  the  world,"  "unto  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people,"  "and 
before  kings  and  rulers."  (D  &  C  1:23; 
133:37.) 

It  is  thrilling  to  contemplate  the 
progress  being  made  in  carrying  out 
this  great  commission.  I  am  sure  we 
shall  all  be  inspired  anew  when  we  hear 
Elders  Moyle  and  Bennion  report  their 


G.  ROMNEY  15 

recent  tours  of  the  South  American  and 
the  European  missions. 

That  in  discharging  our  obligations 
to  the  dead  we  are  keeping  pace  with 
our  missionary  service  is  abundantly 
clear  from  the  fact  that  western  United 
States  is  blanketed  with  temples  in 
which  a  prodigious  work  for  the  dead  is 
being  carried  forward  night  and  day. 
Much  work  is  also  being  done  in  Can- 
ada, Hawaii,  and  Switzerland,  and  tem- 
ples, are  now  being  reared  in  England 
and  in  far-off  New  Zealand. 

Statistics  also  indicate  that  in  "the 
perfecting  of  the  saints"  we  are  making 
headway.  During  the  last  twenty  years 
there  has  been  a  great  increase  in  the 
payment  of  tithing,  in  fast  offerings,  and 
other  financial  contributions,  and  there 
has  been  a  substantial  increase  in  at- 
tendance at  Sacrament  meetings  and 
stake  conferences.  As  to  many  other 
activities,  there  are  like  encouraging  re- 
ports, all  of  which  give  us  cause  to  re- 
joice. 

We  have  reason,  therefore,  to  take 
courage  and  strive  for  still  better  rec- 
ords. And  as  we  do  so,  may  I  suggest 
that  we  keep  in  mind  always  that  neither 
statistics  nor  Church  averages  guaran- 
tee perfection.  Important  as  these  are 
in  stirring  us  to  activity  and  keeping  us 
aware  of  our  progress,  the  fact  remains 
that  attaining  the  perfection  com- 
manded by  the  Savior  and  alluded  to 
by  Paul  is  an  individual  matter. 

Years  ago  I  read  an  article,  which,  as 
I  remember  it,  made  the  point  that 
while  living  the  Word  of  Wisdom  would 
on  the  average  improve  the  health  and 
lengthen  the  life  span  of  the  members 
of  any  group  who  observed  it,  still  no 
one  member  of  the  group  could  safely 
rely  upon  receiving  the  promised  bless- 
ings himself.  I  did  not  believe  the  doc- 
trine then,  and  I  do  not  believe  it  now. 

The  perfection  upon  which  exalta- 
tion hangs,  I  repeat,  is  an  individual 
matter.  It  is  conditioned  upon  the  ob- 
servance of  celestial  laws  as  they  apply 
to  earth  life.  The  Word  of  Wisdom  is 
one  of  them,  so  also  are  chastity,  tith- 
ing, observance  of  the  Sabbath  day, 
prayer,  honesty,  industry,  love  of  God 
and  fellow  men,  patience,  kindness, 
charity,  and  all  the  rest  of  the  princi- 
ples and  ordinances  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.   Each  individual  who  ob- 


16  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  October  5 

serves  one  or  more  of  these  laws  shall 
receive  the  blessings  predicated  thereon, 
and  each  Church  member  who  will, 
with  all  the  energy  of  his  soul,  dili- 
gently strive  to  live  them  all,  shall 
receive  the  blessings  predicated  upon 
such  striving.  Eternal  life,  the  greatest 
gift  of  God,  is  that  blessing,  and  it  will 
follow  the  living  of  the  gospel  as  the 
night  the  day,  regardless  of  statistics 
or  averages,  or  of  what  others  think  or 
say  or  do,  for  the  Lord  Almighty  himself 
has  said  that 

■ .  .  every  soul  who  forsaketh  his  sins 
and  cometh  unto  me,  and  calleth  on  my 
name,  and  obeyeth  my  voice,  and  keepeth 
my  commandments,  shall  see  my  face  and 
know  that  I  am.  (D  &  C  93:1.) 

The  converse,  that  every  member  of 
the  Church  who  refuses  to  do  so  will 
fall  short  of  the  glory  of  God,  is  just  as 
true,  for  the  Lord  has  also  said  that 

...  no  unclean  thing  can  enter  into 
his  kingdom;  therefore  nothing  entereth  into 
his  rest  save  it  be  those  who  have  washed 
their  garments  in  my  blood,  because  of  their 
faith,  and  the  repentance  of  all  their  sins, 
and  their  faithfulness  unto  the  end.  (3 
Nephi  27:19.) 

If  I  had  the  power,  I  would  impress 
every  member  of  the  Church  with  the 
transcendent  import  to  himself  of  strict- 
ly obeying  the  principles  of  the  gospel. 
In  these  remarks  I  hope  I  can  so  present 
this  matter  that  at  least  one  of  you  will 
join  with  me  in  a  resolution  to  make  a 
greater  effort  to  do  so  in  the  future  than 
we  have  ever  made  in  the  past.  With 
the  great  prize  of  eternal  life  set  before 
us,  and  in  light  of  the  emphasis  the  Lord 
has  put  upon  the  fact  that  this  eternal 
life  is  attainable  only  upon  condition 
that  we  "endure  to  the  end,  in  follow- 
ing the  example  of  the  Son  of  the  living 
God,"  it  does  seem  to  me  that  no  Latter- 
day  Saint  should  be  content  to  stand 
day  after  day  in  the  same  place  on  the 
way  to  eternal  life. 

On  the  mountain  Jesus  instructed  his 
disciples  to  be  "perfect,  even  as"  their 
"Father  which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect." 
To  the  Nephites  he  varied  the  instruc- 
tion just  a  little.  He  wanted  them  to 
"be  perfect  even  as"  he,  or  their  "Father 
who  is  in  heaven  is  perfect."  John,  the 
beloved  apostle,  made  plain  that  all  of 


Firsl  Day 

us,  if  we  see  the  Savior,  must  purify 
ourselves,  "even  as  he  is  pure."  (Matt. 
5:48;  3  Nephi  12:48;  I  John  3:3.) 

Because  there  are  so  many  people 
about  us  who  have  no  vision  of  the  goal 
to  which  we  are  inspired  by  the  gospel, 
we  are  in  danger  of  becoming  surfeited 
with  the  things  of  the  world  and  are  apt 
to  slacken  in  our  daily  striving  to  move 
onward  in  our  quest  for  eternal  life. 
It  has  therefore  been  one  of  the  burdens 
of  Church  leadership  in  all  dispensations 
to  encourage  the  Saints  to  keep  these 
things  constantly  in  their  remembrance. 

Peter,  the  chief  apostle,  was  deeply 
concerned  about  this  matter  when,  al- 
most within  the  shadow  of  his  own 
cross,  he  penned  his  second  and,  so  far 
as  we  know,  his  last  epistle.  Greeting 
the  saints,  who  he  said  had  "obtained 
like  precious  faith"  with  him,  he  re- 
minded them  that  they  had  been  res- 
cued from  the  lusts  of  this  world  and 
brought  into  glory  and  virtue  through 
the  righteousness  of  Christ.  He  assured 
them  that  by  possessing  themselves  of 
the  Christian  virtues  he  enumerated, 
and  which  President  McKay  this  day 
repeated  in  our  hearing,  they  could  be 
made  "partakers  of  the  divine  nature." 

"For,"  said  he, 

if  these  things  be  in  you,  and  abound, 
they  make  you  that  ye  shall  neither  be 
barren  nor  unfruitful  in  the  knowledge  of 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

But  he  that  lacketh  these  things  is  blind, 
and  cannot  see  afar  off,  and  hath  forgotten 
that  he  was  purged  from  his  old  sins. 

Wherefore  the  rather,  brethren,  give  dili- 
diligence  to  make  your  calling  and  election 
sure:  for  if  ye  do  these  things,  ye  shall 
never  fall: 

For  so  an  entrance  shall  be  ministered 
unto  you  abundantly  into  the  everlasting 
kingdom  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ. 

Wherefore  I  will  not  be  negligent  to  put 
you  always  in  remembrance  of  these  things, 
though  ye  know  them,  and  be  established 
in  the  present  truth. 

Yea,  I  think  it  meet,  as  long  as  I  am  in 
this  tabernacle,  to  stir  you  up  by  putting 
you  in  remembrance; 

Knowing  that  shortly  I  must  put  off  this 
my  tabernacle,  even  as  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
hath  shewed  me. 

Moreover  I  will  endeavour  that  ye  may 
be  able  after  my  decease  to  have  these 
things  always  in  remembrance.  (II  Peter 
1:8-15.) 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


17 


The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  his  day 
over  and  over  again  pleaded  with  the 
Saints  in  the  very  words  of  Peter  to 
make  their  "calling  and  election  sure." 
Explaining  what  he  meant  by  this  ad- 
monition he  said, 

After  a  person  has  faith  in  Christ,  repents 
of  his  sins,  and  is  baptized  for  the  remis- 
sion of  his  sins  and  receives  the  Holy 
Ghost  .  .  .  then  let  him  continue  to  humble 
himself  before  God,  hungering  and  thirst- 
ing after  righteousness,  and  living  by  every 
word  of  God,  and  the  Lord  will  soon  say 
unto  him,  Son,  thou  shalt  be  exalted.  When 
the  Lord  has  thoroughly  proved  him,  and 
finds  that  the  man  is  determined  to  serve 
Him  at  all  hazards,  then  the  man  will  find 
his  calling  and  his  election  made  sure. 
(D.H.C.,  Vol.  3,  p.  380.) 

In  similar  vein,  our  present  leaders 
are  continually  putting  us  in  remem- 
brance of  the  importance  of  living  the 
gospel.  They  are  repeatedly  urging  us 
to  gird  up  our  loins  and  take  upon  us 
the  whole  armor  of  Christ.  We  heard 
President  McKay  make  the  plea  this 
morning,  and  only  recently  and  on  more 
than  one  occasion,  we  have  heard 
President  McKay  urge  us  to  become 
"partakers  of  the  divine  nature," — 1 
think  this  is  one  of  his  favorite  quota- 
tions,— which  Peter  says  we  may  do 
by  escaping  through  the  righteousness 
of  Christ  "the  corruption  that  is  in  the 
world  through  lust."  (II  Peter  1:4.) 

Let  us  be  reminded  that  we  came  into 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  through  a 
cleansing  and  a  purifying  process.  Be- 
lieving that  Jesus  brought  about  our 
resurrection  and  put  into  operation  the 
great  plan  of  mercy  by  which  our  sins 
may  be  washed  away  in  his  blood,  we 
developed  a  faith  in  him  which  moved 
us  to  repentance  in  the  hope  that  we, 
by  complying  with  the  saving  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel,  might  be  raised  unto 
life  eternal  and  gain  an  exaltation 
"through  the  atonement  of  Christ  and 
the  power  of  his  resurrection."  (Moroni 
9:41.) 

Then,  in  final  preparation  for  Church 
membership,  and  as  evidence  of  our 
willingness  to  take  upon  us  the  name 
of  Christ  and  of  our  determination  to 
keep  his  commandments,  we  were  bap- 
tized by  immersion  for  the  remission  of 
sin.    As  Jesus  came  forth  from  the 


tomb  with  a  glorified  body,  having  left 
all  corruptibleness  in  the  grave,  so  we 
through  baptism  should  have  buried  in 
the  watery  grave  the  corruption  of  our 
sins,  and  come  forth  to  walk  in  newness 
of  life,  never  again  to  return  to  worldly 
lusts.  Thus  prepared  we  were  confirmed 
members  of  the  Church  and  given  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Through  these 
principles  and  ordinances  we  were 
cleansed  and  purified.  Having  thus 
washed  our  garments  in  the  blood  of 
Christ,  we  entered  through  the  straight 
gate  and  stood  redeemed  on  the  narrow 
way  which  leads  to  life  eternal.  It 
should  have  then  been,  and  it  should 
now  be,  the  controlling  desire  of  every 
Church  member,  and  it  is  the  desire  of 
every  member  who  is  on  the  way  to 
eternal  life  always  to  retain  this  re- 
deemed status. 

With  complete  surrender  to  the  spirit 
of  the  gospel  let  us,  honestly  and 
without  guile,  search  our  own  souls  and 
find  the  weakness  which  presently  im- 
pedes our  upward  climb  to  eternal  life. 
If  that  weakness  be  faultfinding,  evil 
speaking  of  the  Lord's  anointed,  or  pro- 
faning the  name  of  Deity,  let  us  desist. 
If  it  be  neglecting  our  prayers,  let  us 
pause  night  and  morning  in  our  mad 
rush  and  kneel  with  our  families  and 
in  our  secret  chambers  while  we  pour 
out  our  souls  in  thanksgiving  and  peti- 
tion, until  hungering  and  thirsting  after 
righteousness  we  are  filled  with  the  Holy 
Ghost.  If  it  be  failure  to  obtain  the 
sealing  ordinances  of  the  temple  for 
ourselves  and  families,  let  us  straight- 
way prepare  to  enter  that  holy  place 
and  obtain  them  before  it  is  too  late. 
If  it  be  the  giving  way  to  anger  or  ap- 
petite for  the  things  forbidden  in  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  or  surrendering  to 
baser  lusts;  if  it  be  desecration  of  the 
Sabbath  day  or  refusing  to  contribute  of 
our  time  and  means  according  to  the 
laws  of  the  Church  for  the  building 
of  the  kingdom;  whatever  it  be,  let  us 
find  it,  recognize  it,  and  do  something 
about  it  daily. 

Let  us  resolve  never  to  relax  in  our 
striving  for  that  perfection  in  ourselves 
which  will  bring  us  to  eternal  life.  Do- 
ing so  we  can  all  measurably  hasten 
that  great  day  foreshadowed  by  Paul 
when  he  instructed  the  Saints  that  Jesus 

.   .  .  gave  some,  apostles;  and  some, 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  5 

prophets;  and  some,  evangelists;  and  some, 
pastors  and  teachers; 

,  For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for  the 
work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edifying  of 
the  body  of  Christ: 

Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the  faith, 
and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  of  God, 
unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the  measure  of 
the  stature  of  the  fulness  of  Christ:  (Eph. 
4:11-13.) 

That  we  may  do  so,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Re- 
deemer. Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken 
to  us. 

In  announcing  the  attendance  of  our 
distinguished  visitors,  I  think  I  stumbled 
over  the  name  of  Dr.  John  L.  Clarke, 
president  of  Ricks  College,  who  is  in 
attendance  here  also  as  president  of  the 
Rexburg  Stake. 

I  commend  this  large  audience  for 
the  perfect  order  of  this  session.  And 
now  we  ask  that  you  will  confer  a  favor 
in  continuing  to  contribute  to  the  orderly 
conduct  of  those  who  attend  the  sessions 
of  the  Conference. 

I  have  a  note  here  that  there  are 
literature  distributors  at  our  gates.  We 
implore  those  who  receive  the  leaflets 
that  are  being  passed  out  not  to  throw 
them  on  the  street.  Please  cooperate 
with  our  City  Fathers  and  use  the 
receptacles  that  have  been  furnished  by 
our  city  officials.  (Laughter)  Well, 
that  is  all  right.    This  also  applies  to 


First  Day 

our  Tabernacle  Grounds.  Please  do  hot 
clutter  this  beautiful  square  with  papers, 
lunch  boxes,  and  so  forth.  There  are 
receptacles  conveniently  placed  for  your 
waste  paper. 

We  should  also  like  to  ask  you  to 
clear  the  building  between  meetings. 
Please  do  not  eat  your  lunches  in  this 
sacred  building. 

Elder  Edward  L.  Clissold,  president 
of  the  Oahu  Stake,  has  sent  us  word 
that  the  beautiful  Anthuriums  and  other 
tropical  flowers  that  beautify  this  build- 
ing this  morning  bring  to  us  the  greet- 
ings and  love  of  the  members  of  the 
Church  in  Hawaii,  and  I  wish  to  add, 
appreciatively,  that  these  flowers  were 
flown  from  Hawaii  by  the  United  Air 
Lines  free  of  charge.  We  thank  them 
for  cooperating  with  our  Hawaiian 
Saints  in  thus  beautifying  this  Taber- 
nacle. 

This  afternoon  we  shall  again  be 
favored  by  the  presence  and  the  singing 
of  our  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers, 
who  will  now  favor  us  by  singing, 
"Prayer  for  Service,"  conducted  by 
Sister  Florence  J.  Madsen. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Winslow  B.  Whiteley,  president 
of  the  Cassia  Stake,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  stand  adjourned  until 
two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang  a  selection, 
"Prayer  for  Service." 

Elder  Winslow  B.  Whiteley,  president 
of  the  Cassia  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


•  Conference  reconvened  Friday  after- 
noon at. 2:00  p.m.,  Friday,  October  5. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  furnished  by  the  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers  from  the  Northern 
Utah  Region,  Ogden  Region,  and  Sum- 
mit Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  pre- 
sided and  conducted  the  meeting,  opened 
the  session  promptly  at  2  o'clock. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  the  second  session  of 
the  127th  Semi-Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

There  are  present  on  the  stand  this 
afternoon  all  the  General  Authorities 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


19 


excepting  two,  who  are  detained  at  home 
because  of  illness. 

For  those  who  are  unable  to  enter  the 
building,  we  announce  that  these  serv- 
ices are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  a  public 
address  system  and  by  television.  These 
services  are  also  being  televised  over 
KSL-TV,  Channel  5,  of  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  are  being  heard  over  radio  station 
KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City  and  by  arrange- 
ment through  KSL  over  1 1  radio  stations 
in  Utah,  Idaho,  and  Nevada,  and  three 
television  stations  in  Utah  and  Idaho. 
The  names  of  these  stations  have  al- 
ready been  announced  to  the  radio 
audience. 

We  desire  to  express  our  appreciation 
to  these  various  radio  stations  for  their 
courtesy  in  making  available  their  time 
and  facilities  for  these  broadcasts. 

We  are  favored  again  this  afternoon 
by  the  presence  of  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers  from  the  Northern 
Utah  Region,  Ogden  Region,  and  Sum- 
mit Stake,  with  Florence  J.  Madsen  con- 
ducting, and  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  singing, 
"Holy  Lord  God,"  conducted  by  Sister 
Madsen. 


The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Ross  C.  Lee,  president  of  the 
Gooding  Stake. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing,  "Holy  Lord 
God." 


As  announced  by  the  President,  the 
Singing  Mothers  sang  as  an  opening 
number,  "Holy  Lord  God." 

President  Ross  C.  Lee  of  the  Gooding 
Stake  offered  the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Ross  C.  Lee  of  the  Gooding  Stake. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with,  "The  Twenty- 
Third  Psalm." 

Following  this,  President  Joseph  Field- 
ing Smith  will  speak  to  us. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang  an  anthem, 
"The  Twenty-Third  Psalm." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  will 
be  our  first  speaker  this  afternoon.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  LeGrand 
Richards. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Isa  witness  to  the  mission  of  the  Lord 
l\  Jesus  Christ,  I  address  my  remarks 
11  not  only  to  those  who  are  assembled 
here^  but  also  to  those  who  are  scattered 
abroad,  many  of  whom  may  not  be 
members  of  the  Church.  • 

The  Lord  said  that  in  the  mouth  of 
two  or  three  witnesses,  all  things  should 
be  established,  and  he  -has  always  had 
witnesses  who  could  bear  testimony  of 
this  truth  by  divine  revelation  and  ap- 
pointment. 

When  he  sent- the  missionaries  out  in 
the  early  days  after  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel,  the  Lord  said  he  sent  them 
that  they  might  "be  prepared  in  all 
things  when  I  shall  send  you  again  to 
magnify  the  calling  whereunto  I  have 
called  you,  and  the  mission  with  which 
I  have  commissioned  you. 

"Behold,  I  sent  you  out  to  testify  and 


warn  the  people,  and  it  becometh  every 
man  who  hath  been  warned  to  warn  his 
neighbor. 

"Therefore,  they  are  left  without  ex- 
cuse, and  their  sins  are  upon  their  own 
heads."  (D  &  C  88:80-82.) 

So  the  words  that  are  spoken  by  those 
who  are  commissioned  and  -  have  the 
authority  to  bear  witness  of  the  truth, 
are  binding  not  only  upon  the  members 
of  the  Church,  but  also  upon  all  urtto 
whom  this  message  comes. 

In  regard  to  the  coming  forth  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  the  Lord  said  that  he 
would  choose  witnesses.  There  should" 
be  three  special  witnesses  that  should 
bear  record  to  the  world,  and  said  he: 

"And  there  is  none  other  which  shall 
view  it,  save  it  be  a  few  according  to  the 
will  of  God,  to  bear  testimony  of  his 
word  unto  the  children  of  men;  for  the 


20 

Friday,  October  5 

Lord  God  hath  said  that  the  words  of 
the  faithful  should  speak  as  if  it  were 
from  the  dead. 

"Wherefore,  the  Lord  God  will  pro- 
ceed to  bring  forth  the  words  of  the 
book;  and  in  the  mouth  of  as  many  wit- 
nesses as  seemeth  him  good  will  he 
establish  his  word;  and  wo  be  unto  him 
that  rejecteth  the  word  of  God!"  (2  Ne. 
27:13-14.) 

I  shall  not  take  time  to  read  the  testi- 
monies of  the  Three  Witnesses,  nor  of 
the  Eight  Witnesses  to  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  These  are  published  in  each 
copy  of  that  book.  The  testimony  of 
Oliver  Cowdery,  David  Whitmer,  and 
Martin  Harris  was  that  in  the  presence 
of  an  angel  they  beheld  the  record  from 
which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  trans- 
lated, and  had  the  privilege  of  examin- 
ing it  in  the  presence  of  that  heavenly 
being,  and  the  voice  of  the  Lord  sounded 
to  them  from  the  heavens  calling  upon 
them  to  bear  witness  of  this  truth,  to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  peo- 
ple. 

Eight  other  witnesses  beheld  the 
plates,  but  not  in  the  presence  of  an 
angel.  These  are  the  witnesses  spoken 
of  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  whom  the 
Lord  said  he  would  call  to  bear  record 
of  the  truth  of  this  Book  of  Mormon. 

All  those  who  have  heard  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  all  those  who  have  read  it, 
have  had  the  opportunity  to  read  the 
testimonies  of  Oliver  Cowdery,  David 
Whitmer,  and  Martin  Harris,  who  bore 
solemn  testimony  to  the  truth  of  this 
record,  that  is,  of  its  being  revealed.  If 
they  refuse  to  read  (and  yet  their  atten- 
tion has  been  called  to  this  fact,  that 
the  Lord  has  spoken,  that  he  has  given 
into  the  hands  of  the  world  today  the 
record  of  those  people  who  lived  an- 
ciently) and  they  turn  away  and  reject 
it,  they  will  have  to  answer  for  it  before 
the  judgment  seat  of  God. 

And  wo  be  unto  those  who  take  it 
upon  themselves  to  fight  these  revela- 
tions. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  the  Lord 
has  made  it  very  clear  to  me  by  revela- 
tion which  I  have  received,  and  many 
of  you  who  are  here  present  can  bear 
witness  likewise,  that  these  things  are 
true,  and  that  is  the  privilege  of  any 
sincere  person  who  will  endeavor  to 
read  with  a  prayerful  spirit  and  a  desire 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

to  know  whether  the  book  is  true  or 
not;  and  he  will  receive  that  testimony 
according  to  the  promise  that  was  made 
by  Moroni,  who  sealed  the  record  to 
come  forth  in  the  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times. 

I  thought  it  would  be  well,  however, 
to  bring  two  testimonies  here  and  read 
them,  one  from  David  Whitmer  and  one 
from  Oliver  Cowdery.  When  I  read 
these,  I  am  going  to  read  the  copies  that 
I  made  from  the  original  sources.  This 
is  not  a  copy  from  a  copy,  but  a  copy 
from  the  original,  that  I  read  to  you. 

This  is  a  testimony  of  David  Whit- 
mer, given  in  Richmond,  Missouri, 
March  19,  1881 — copied  from  the  orig- 
inal document,  which  was  published  in 
the  Richmond  Conservator  on  that  date. 

"Unto  all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues 
and  people  unto  whom  these  presence 
shall  come — 

"It  having  been  represented  by  one 
John  Murphy  of  Polo  [Caldwell  Coun- 
ty], Missouri,  that  I  had  in  a  conversa- 
tion with  him  last  summer,  denied  my 
testimony  as  one  of  the  three  witnesses 
to  the  Book  of  Mormon — 

"To  the  end  thereof,  that  he  may  un- 
derstand me  now  if  he  did  not  then, 
and  that  the  world  may  know  the  truth, 
I  wish  now,  standing  as  it  were,  in  the 
very  sunset  of  life,  and  in  the  fear  of 
God,  once  for  all  to  make  this  public 
statement: 

"That  I  have  never  at  any  time, 
denied  that  testimony  or  any  part  there- 
of, which  has  so  long  since  been  pub- 
lished with  that  book,  as  one  of  the 
three  witnesses. 

"Those  who  know  me  best,  will  know 
that  I  have  always  adhered  to  that 
testimony — And  that  no  man  may  be 
misled  or  doubt  my  present  views  in 
regard  to  the  same,  I  do  now  again 
affirm  the  truth  of  all  my  statements 
as  then  made  and  published. 

"He  that  hath  an  ear  to  hear,  let 
him  hear:  It  was  no  delusion.  What 
is  written  is  written,  and  he  that  read- 
eth  let  him  understand.  .  .  . 

"And  if  any  man  doubt  should  he  not 
carefully  and  honestly  read  and  under- 
stand the  same  before  presuming  to  sit  in 
judgment,  and  condemning  the  light 
which  shineth  in  darkness,  and  showeth 
the  way  to  eternal  life,  as  pointed  out 
by  the  hand  of  God? 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


21 


"In  the  Spirit  of  Christ  who  hath  said 
follow  thou  me;  for  'I  am  the  life,  the 
light,  and  the  way.'  I  submit  this  state- 
ment to  the  world.  God,  in  whom  I 
trust  being  my  judge,  as  to  the  sincerity 
of  my  motives  and  the  faith  and  hope 
that  is  in  me  of  eternal  life. 

"My  sincere  desire  is  that  the  world 
may  be  benefited  by  the  plain  and  sim- 
ple statement  of  the  truth. 

"And  all  the  honor  be  to  the  Father, 
the  Son  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  is 
one  God.  Amen." 

"David  Whitmer,  Sr." 

This  document  bears  the  signature 
and  endorsement  as  to  the  character  of 
David  Whitmer  by  the  following  citi- 
zens of  Richmond,  Ray  County,  Mis- 
souri. 

Richmond,  Mo.  March  19th.,  A.D.  1881. 

"We  the  undersigned  citizens  of  Rich- 
mond, Ray  County,  Mo.,  where  David 
Whitmer,  Sr.  has  resided  since  the  year 
A.D.  1838,  certify  that  we  have  been 
long  and  intimately  acquainted  with 
him,  and  know  him  to  be  a  man  of  the 
highest  integrity  and  of  undoubted  truth 
and  veracity — Given  at  Richmond,  Mo., 
this  March  19,  A.D.  1881. 

A.  W.  Doniphan" 

George  W.  Dunn,  Judge  of  the  Fifth 

Judicial  Circuit. 
T.  D.  Woodson,  President  Ray  County 

Savings  Bank 
Jacob  O.  Child,  Editor  of  Conservator 
H.  C.  Garmen,  Cashier  Ray  County 

Savings  Bank 
W.  A.  Holman,  County  Treasurer 
J.  S.  Hughes,  Banker,  Richmond,  Mo. 
James  Hughes,  Banker,  Richmond,  Mo. 
D.  P.  Whitmer,  Attorney  At  Law 
James  W.  Black,  Attorney  At  Law 
L.  C.  Cantwell,  Postmaster,  Richmond, 

Mo. 

Geo.  I.  Watson,  Mayor 

Jas.  A.  Davis,  Revenue  Collector 

J.  Hughes,  Probate  Judge  and  P.  J.  Ray 

County  Courts 
Geo.  W.   Trigg,  County   Clerk  Ray 

County 
H.  W.  Mosby,  M.D. 
Thos.    McGinnis,    Late    Sheriff  Ray 

County 

W.  R.  Holman,  Furniture  Merchant 


J.  P.  Qouisinberrey,  Merchant 
Lewis  Slaughter,  Recorder  of  Deeds 
G.  W.  Buchanan,  M.D. 
A.  K.  Reybum 

The  following  editorial  in  the  Rich- 
mond Conservator  was  also  published: 

"Elsewhere  we  publish  a  letter  from 
David  Whitmer,  Sen.,  an  old  and  well 
known  citizen  of  Ray,  as  well  as  an 
endorsement  of  his  standing  as  a  man, 
signed  by  a  number  of  the  leading 
citizens  of  this  community,  in  reply  to 
some  unwarranted  aspersions  made  upon 
him. 

"There  is  no  doubt  that  Mr.  Whitmer, 
who  was  one  of  the  Three  Witnesses  of 
the  authenticity  of  the  gold  plates,  from 
which  he  asserts  that  Joe  Smith  trans- 
lated the  Book  of  Mormon  (a  facsimile 
of  them  he  now  has  in  his  possession 
with  the  original  records)"  — may  I  be 
pardoned  to  pause  there  and  say  he 
did  not  have  the  original  records;  what 
the  editor  meant  was  that  he  had  a 
copy  of  the  manuscript  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  which  manuscript  was  used 
in  the  translation  of  the  record — "is 
firmly  convinced  of  its  divine  origin, 
and  while  he  makes  no  effort  to  obtrude 
his  views  or  belief,  he  simply  wants  the 
world  to  know  that  so  far  as  he  is  con- 
cerned there  is  no  'variableness  or 
shadow  of  turning.'  Having  resided 
here  for  half  of  a  century,  it  is  with  no 
little  pride  that  he  points  to  his  past 
record,  with  the  consciousness  that  he 
has  done  nothing  derogatory  to  his  char- 
acter as  a  citizen  and  a  believer  in  the 
Son  of  Mary  to  warrant  such  an  attack 
on  him,  coming  from  what  source  it 
may,  and  now,  with  the  lilies  of  seventy- 
five  winters  crowning  him  like  an 
aureole,  and,  his  pilgrimage  on  earth 
well  nigh  ended  he  reiterates  his  former 
statement  and  will  leave  futurity  to 
solve  the  problem  that  he  was  but  a 
passing  witness  of  its  fulfilment." 

From  a  letter  written  by  Oliver 
Cowdery,  another  of  the  three  witnesses, 
to  his  brother-in-law,  Phineas  Young, 
March  23,  1846,  from  Tiffin,  Ohio,  I 
copy  this: 

"I  have  cherished  a  hope,  and  that 
one  of  my  fondest,  that  I  might  leave 
such  a  character  as  those  who  might 
believe  in  my  testimony,  after  I  should 
be  called  hence,  might  do  so,  not  only 


22 

Friday,  October  5 

for  the  sake  of  the  truth,  but  might  not 
blush  for  the  private  character  of  the 
man  who  bore  that  testimony.  I  have 
been  sensitive  on  this  subject,  I  admit, 
but  I  ought  to  be  so,  you  would  be 
under  the  circumstances,  had  you  stood 
in  the  presence  of  John  with  our  de- 
parted Brother  Joseph,  to  receive  the 
Lesser  Priesthood,  and  in  the  presence 
of  Peter,  to  receive  the  Greater,  and 
look  down  through  time,  and  witness 
the  effects  these  two  must  produce — 
you  would  feel  what  you  have  never 
felt,  were  wicked  men  conspiring  to  les- 
sen the  effects  of  your  testimony  on 
man,  after  you  have  gone  to  your  long- 
sought  rest." 

You  know,  when  Oliver  Cowdery 
wrote  that  he  was  not  a  member  of  the 
Church,  he  had  left  the  Church  through 
some  transgression.  Not  long,  however, 
after  he  wrote  this  letter  to  his  brother- 
in-law  he  found  his  way  back  to  the 
body  of  the  Church. 

When  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was 
in  Carthage  Jail  with  his  brother 
Hyrum,  John  Taylor,  and  Willard  Rich- 
ards, the  Prophet  asked  that  a  letter 
be  written  to  Oliver  Cowdery  asking 
him  if  he  had  not  fed  upon  the  husks 
long  enough.  I  do  not  know  what  be- 
came of  that  letter,  but  evidently  it  must 
have  been  written  and  shortly  after  the 
martyrdom,  Oliver  Cowdery  found  his 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


way  back  to  Nauvoo  and  then  contin- 
ued his  journey  across  the  Territory  of 
Iowa  to  the  camp  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  at  Kanesville,  where  he  made  his 
plea  to  be  brought  back  again  into  the 
Church,  testifying  there  again,  which 
testimony  I  think  is  quite  generally 
known,  that  he  was  not  asking  to  come 
back  for  any  place  or  position,  but 
merely  to  be  a  humble  member  of  the 
Church,  and  he  bore  witness  to  the 
same  things  on  his  return. 

Just  another  word — if  Oliver  Cowdery 
had  been  lying  and  the  story  was  not 
true,  at  the  time  when  unstable  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  were  forsaking  it,  he 
never  would  have  gone  to  Nauvoo, 
among  the  enemies  of  the  people,  and 
then  continued  his  journey  westward  to 
find  the  body  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
when  everyone  else  thought  they  had 
gone  to  their  destruction. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  Our  next 
speaker  will  be  Elder  LeGrand  Richards 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  he 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Oscar  A. 
Kirkham. 


ELDER  LEGR/ 

Of  the  Council  of 

1am  sure  I  express  the  feeling  of  every 
heart  here  today  when  I  say  that  I 
have  thrilled  with  the  sessions  of  this 
conference  up  to  this  present  moment. 
The  music  has  been  out  of  this  world, 
and  the  prayers  have  been  beautiful, 
and  the  instructions  and  counsel  and 
advice  and  the  testimonies  of  the  breth- 
ren have  been  wonderful. 

I  pray  that  I  may  make  a  contribution 
that  may  be  helpful  to  the  final  success 
of  this  conference. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  about 
prophecy.  I  have  always  been  a  great 
believer  in  the  words  of  the  prophets. 
Through  Isaiah  the  Lord  said: 

I  am  God,  and  there  is  none  like  me, 


[D  RICHARDS 

e  Twelve  Apostles 

Declaring  the  end  from  the  beginning.  . .  . 
(Isa.  46:9-10.) 

To  me  it  seems  that  the  prophets 
have  laid  out  just  about  as  completely 
and  perfectly  the  great  plan  of  the 
Lord  with  respect  to  this  earth  and  the 
inhabitants  thereof  until  the  final  wind- 
ing up  scenes  when  his  kingdom  shall 
have  been  established,  and  he  shall 
come  and  reign  as  King  of  kings,  as  an 
architect  does  when  he  plans  a  build- 
ing. 

So  I  believe  in  prophecy.  You  re- 
member when  the  Savior  appeared  to 
the  two  disciples  on  the  way  to  Em- 
maus;  as  he  listened  to  them  he  said: 
"O  fools,  and  slow  of  heart  to  believe 
all   that  the  prophets  have  spoken." 


ELDER  LEGRJ 

(Luke  24:25.)  And  Peter  tells  us  that 
"We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of 
prophecy;"  more  sure  than  anything 
else,  "...  a  light  that  shineth  in  a  dark 
place,  until  the  day  dawn,  and  the  day 
star  arise  in  your  hearts."  (II  Peter 
1:19.) 

I  want  to  refer  to  two  prophecies  from 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  quote  the  words 
of  Moroni: 

For  the  eternal  purposes  of  the  Lord  shall 
roll  on,  until  all  his  promises  shall  be  ful- 
filled. 

Search  the  prophecies  of  Isaiah.  .  .  . 
(Mormon  8:22-23.) 

Then  I  read  a  statement  from  Nephi: 

...  in  the  days  that  the  prophecies  of 
Isaiah  shall  be  fulfilled  men  shall  know 
of  a  surety,  at  the  times  when  they  shall 
come  to  pass. 

...  for  I  know  that  they  shall  be  of 
great  worth  unto  them  in  the  last  days; 
for  in  that  day  shall  they  understand  them; 
wherefore,  for  their  good  have  I  written 
them.  (2  Nephi  25:7-8.) 

We  are  all  here  today  in  fulfilment 
of  the  words  of  the  prophets,  and  I 
love  the  prophecies  of  Isaiah  because  it 
seems  to  me  that  he  lived  almost  more 
in  our  day  than  when  he  was  actually 
upon  the  earth,  because  the  Lord  gave 
him  to  see  so  many  of  the  things  that 
would  transpire  in  the  latter  days  in 
the  redemption  of  these  valleys  and 
the  building  of  this  house  of  the  God 
of  Jacob  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains 
and  the  gathering  of  Israel  from  all  the 
nations  of  the  earth. 

You  will  recall  that  when  the  angel 
Moroni  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  three  times  during  the  night  and 
the  next  morning,  and  this  was  when 
he  was  only  a  young  man  of  eighteen, 
Moroni  quoted  from  the  eleventh  chap- 
ter of  Isaiah  and  told  the  Prophet  that 
these  things  were  about  to  come  to  pass, 
and  I  read  from  that  chapter  the  fol- 
lowing: 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  that  day, 
that  the  Lord  shall  set  his  hand  again  the 
second  time  to  recover  the  remnant  of  his 
people.  .  .  . 

And  he  shall  set  up  an  ensign  for  the 
nations,  and  shall  assemble  the  outcasts  of 
Israel,  and  gather  together  the  dispersed 
of  Judah  from  the  four  corners  of  the  earth. 

The  envy  also  of  Ephraim  shall  depart, 


ID  RICHARDS  23 

and  the  adversaries  of  Judah  shall  be  cut 
off:  Ephraim  shall  not  envy  Judah,  and 
Judah  shall  not  vex  Ephraim.  (Isa.  11:11- 
13.) 

Now  we  have  lived  to  see  the  first 
part  of  that  prediction  literally  fulfilled. 
He  has  gathered  Israel  into  these  valleys 
of  the  mountains  according  to  his  prom- 
ise. He  has  set  up  an  ensign  unto  the 
nations.  It  seems  to  me  that  no  thought- 
ful, honest  person  could  examine  what 
the  Lord  has  done  in  the  establishment 
of  this  Church,  his  kingdom  on  the 
earth,  and  then  give  any  mortal  man  or 
group  of  men  the  credit  for  what  has 
been  accomplished.  It  has  been  the  God 
of  heaven  that  has  done  this,  according 
to  the  words  of  the  prophets. 

Now,  for  a  few  moments  I  would  like 
to  refer  to  the  second  part  of  this  prom- 
ise, "and  gather  together  the  dispersed 
of  Judah  from  the  four  corners  of  the 
earth."  There  is  not  time  today  to 
consider  fully  what  the  Lord  is  doing, 
according  to  his  promise,  in  gathering 
the  Jews  back  to  the  Holy  Land.  After 
two  thousand  years  they  now  have  a 
nation  of  their  own  and  it  is  to  be 
hoped  that  with  the  help  of  the  Lord 
they  can  establish  it  in  permanency  and 
fulfil  all  the  words  of  the  prophets. 

Then  Isaiah  says,  "The  envy  also  of 
Ephraim  shall  depart,  and  the  adver- 
saries of  Judah  shall  be  cut  off:  Ephraim 
shall  not  envy  Judah,  and  Judah  shall 
not  vex  Ephraim."  We  are  from 
Ephraim.  The  Lord  expects  us,  since 
we  are  the  custodians  of  his  gospel  as 
restored  in  these  latter  days,  according  to 
my  understanding,  to  extend  the  hand 
of  friendship  to  Judah,  because  after  all 
we  are  all  descendants  of  the  prophets 
Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  and  we  come 
under  the  promises  that  through  their 
descendants  should  all  the  nations  of 
the  earth  be  blessed. 

I  do  not  know  how  the  enmity  and 
the  envy  between  Ephraim  and  Judah 
can  disappear  except  that  we  of  the 
house  of  Ephraim,  who  have  the  custody 
of  the  gospel,  should  lead  out  in  trying 
to  bring  to  this  branch  of  the  house  of 
Israel  the  blessings  of  the  restored  gos- 
pel. 

In  a  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  on  November  3,  1831,  the 
Lord  said: 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  October  5 

Send  forth  the  elders  of  my  church  unto 
the  nations  which  are  afar  off;  unto  the  is- 
lands of  the  sea;  send  forth  unto  foreign 
lands;  call  upon  all  nations,  first  upon  the 
Gentiles,  and  then  upon  the  Jews.  (D  &  C 
133:8.) 

You  know  how  literally  the  Church 
has  fulfilled  that  command;  the  gospel 
is  going  to  nearly  every  nation  under 
heaven,  and  now  into  the  Far  Eastern 
countries,  to  the  Japanese  and  the 
Chinese  and  the  Koreans  and  the 
Filipinos  and  so  forth,  and  the  Lord 
said  that  it  should  go  first  to  the  gen- 
tiles and  then  unto  the  Jews.  That  is 
the  command  which  the  Lord  gave  unto 
the  elders  of  the  Church  in  this  day. 

Then  the  Lord  says: 

And  they  also  of  the  tribe  of  Judah,  after 
their  pain  shall  be  sanctified  in  holiness 
before  the  Lord,  to  dwell  in  his  presence 
day  and  night,  forever  and  ever.  (Ibid., 
133:35.) 

And  it  seems  to  me  that  the  only  way 
that  the  tribe  of  Judah  can  be  sancti- 
fied to  dwell  in  his  presence  forever  and 
ever  will  be  when  we  bring  to  them  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  the 
Savior  promised  them  it  would  be 
brought  in  the  latter  days. 

I  quote  again  the  words  of  the  Lord 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  1833: 

Therefore,  renounce  war  and  proclaim 
peace,  and  seek  diligently  to  turn  the  hearts 
of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  and  the 
hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children; 

And  again,  the  hearts  of  the  Jews  unto 
the  prophets,  and  the  prophets  unto  the 
Jews;  lest  I  come  and  smite  the  whole  earth 
with  a  curse,  and  all  flesh  be  consumed  be- 
fore me.  (Ibid.,  98:16-17.) 

As  I  understand  this  command,  we  the 
prophets  must  turn  our  hearts  unto  the 
Jews,  and  then  we  may  hope  that  they 
will  turn  their  hearts  unto  us  because 
of  the  message  that  we  shall  bring  unto 
them  through  the  restoration  of  the  gos- 
pel in  this  dispensation.  The  impor- 
tance of  this  the  Lord  declared  in  these 
words:  ".  .  .  lest  I  come  and  smite  the 
whole  earth  with  a  curse,  and  all  flesh 
be  consumed  before  me." 

The  Lord  said  again  in  a  revelation 
given  the  day  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized, in  commanding  and  giving  to 


First  Day 

Oliver  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  the 
responsibility  to  carry  the  gospel  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth: 

And  the  first  preacher  of  this  church 
unto  the  church,  and  before  the  world,  yea, 
before  the  gentiles;  yea,  and  thus  saith  the 
Lord  God,  lo,  lol  to  the  Jews  also.  Amen. 
(Ibid.,  21:12.) 

It  would  therefore  appear  that  we 
have  a  great  responsibility  to  preach  the 
gospel  unto  the  Jews. 

We  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon — 
about  which  President  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith  has  just  been  speaking,  and  you 
know  how  marvelously  it  has  been  pre- 
served through  the  centuries  and  has 
been  given  to  us  in  this  dispensation, 
also  in  fulfilment  of  the  words  of  the 
prophets  that  there  was  to  be  a  record 
of  Joseph  joined  to  the  record  of  Judah 
— and  in  the  preface  to  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  we  read  the  purpose  for  which 
the  Lord  preserved  it: 

Which  is  to  show  unto  the  remnant  of 
the  House  of  Israel  what  great  things  the 
Lord  hath  done  for  their  fathers;  and  that 
they  may  know  the  covenants  of  the  Lord, 
that  they  are  not  cast  off  forever— And  also 
to  the  convincing  of  the  Jew  and  Gentile 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Eternal  God, 
manifesting  himself  unto  all  nations —  .  .  . 

If  this  book  is  to  be  a  witness  unto 
the  Jew  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  mani- 
festing himself  unto  all  nations,  it  will 
be  because  we,  the  members  of  his 
Church,  take  this  book  unto  them,  and 
I  am  very  happy  to  say  to  you  today, 
those  who  may  not  know  it,  that  the 
missionary  committee  has  approval  of 
the  First  Presidency  to  start  preaching 
the  gospel  unto  the  Jewish  people  in 
some  of  the  stakes  of  Zion  where  there 
are  many  of  them  residing,  on  somewhat 
of  a  trial  basis  to  see  if  their  hearts  are 
inclined  enough  to  be  willing  to  accept 
the  message  that  the  Lord  has  for  them. 

I  read  a  few  words  from  Second 
Nephi: 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the  Jews 
shall  have  the  words  of  the  Nephites,  and 
the  Nephites  shall  have  the  words  of  the 
Jews;  and  the  Nephites  and  the  Jews  shall 
have  the  words  of  the  lost  tribes  of  Israel; 
and  the  lost  tribes  of  Israel  shall  have  the 
words  of  the  Nephites  and  the  Jews. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


25 


And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  my  peo- 
ple, which  are  of  the  house  of  Israel,  shall 
be  gathered  home  unto  the  lands  of  their 
possessions;  and  my  word  also  shall  be 
gathered  in  one.  And  I  will  show  unto 
them  that  light  against  my  word  and  against 
my  people,  who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel, 
that  I  am  God,  and  that  I  covenanted  with 
Abraham  that  I  would  remember  his  seed 
forever.  (2  Nephi  29:13-14.) 

If  the  Jews  are  to  have  the  records 
of  the  Nephites,  it  will  be  because  we 
take  these  records  to  them. 

When  the  Savior  visited  the  Nephites, 
he  promised  them  that  the  time  would 
come  when  the  Jews  would  have  the 
fulness  of  the  gospel  preached  unto 
them.   I  read: 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the  time 
cometh  when  the  fulness  of  my  gospel  shall 
be  preached  unto  them.  (3  Nephi  20:30.) 

And  then  the  Prophet  Jacob  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon  made  this  statement: 

That  he  has  spoken  unto  the  Jews,  by  the 
mouth  of  his  holy  prophets,  even  from  the 
beginning  down,  from  generation  to  genera- 
tion, until  the  time  comes  that  they  shall 
be  restored  to  the  true  church  and  fold  of 
God;  when  they  shall  be  gathered  home  to 
the  lands  of  their  inheritance,  and  shall  be 
established  in  all  their  lands  of  promise. 
(2  Nephi  9:2.) 

It  seems  to  me  that  now  that  the  Jews 
are  being  "gathered  home  to  the  lands 
of  their  inheritance"  and  are  being  "es- 
tablished in  all  their  lands  of  promise," 
that  this  is  the  time  when  "they  shall 
be  restored  to  the  true  Church  and  fold 
of  God";  and  this  can  only  be  done 
through  our  preaching  the  gospel  unto 
them. 

I  do  not  know  how  familiar  you  are 
with  the  history  of  the  Jewish  people, 
but  they  have  suffered,  it  seems  to  me, 
as  few  if  any  people  who  have  ever 
lived  upon  the  face  of  this  earth;  they 
have  been  driven  from  country  to  coun- 
try; their  people  have  been  ravaged  and 
put  to  death;  parents  have  been  separ- 
ated from  each  other;  their  children 
have  been  put  to  death  because  they 
have  been  accused  of  things  that  they 
were  never  responsible  for.  That  is  all 
in  fulfilment  also  of  the  words  of  the 
prophets. 

I  read  you  the  words  of  First  Nephi: 


And  because  they  turn  their  hearts  aside, 
saith  the  prophet,  and  have  despised  the 
Holy  One  of  Israel,  they  shall  wander  in 
the  flesh,  and  perish,  and  become  a  hiss 
and  a  byword,  and  be  hated  among  all 
nations.  (1  Nephi  19:14.) 

Now  you  know  how  literally  that  has 
been  fulfilled.  Not  only  have  they  been 
driven  from  nation  to  nation  and  been 
persecuted  in  a  most  terrible  manner, 
but  during  World  War  II,  in  one  nation 
alone,  over  six  million  of  these  Jewish 
people  were  put  to  death  for  no  other 
reason  than  that  they  were  Jews. 

The  Savior  has  spoken  in  a  most 
positive  manner  against  such  persecu- 
tions and  actions.  I  read  his  words  to 
the  Nephites: 

Yea,  and  ye  need  not  any  longer  hiss,  nor 
spurn,  nor  make  game  of  the  Jews,  nor 
any  of  the  remnant  of  the  house  of  Israel; 
for  behold,  the  Lord  remembereth  his  cove- 
nant unto  them,  and  he  will  do  unto  them 
according  to  that  which  he  hath  sworn. 
(3  Nephi  29:8.) 

The  Prophet  Nephi  saw  our  day  and 
the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, and  through  him  the  Lord  made 
this  statement: 

And  because  my  words  shall  hiss  forth — 
many  of  the  Gentiles  shall  say:  A  Bible! 
A  Bible!  We  have  got  a  Bible,  and  there 
cannot  be  any  more  Bible. 

But  thus  saith  the  Lord  God:  O  fools,  they 
shall  have  a  Bible;  and  it  shall  proceed  forth 
from  the  Jews,  mine  ancient  covenant  peo- 
ple. And  what  thank  they  the  Jews  for  the 
Bible  which  they  receive  from  them?  Yea, 
what  do  the  Gentiles  mean?  Do  they  re- 
member the  travels,  and  the  labors,  and  the 
pains  of  the  Jews,  and  their  diligence  unto 
me,  in  bringing  forth  salvation  unto  the 
Gentiles? 

O  ye  Gentiles,  have  ye  remembered  the 
Jews,  mine  ancient  covenant  people?  Nay; 
but  ye  have  cursed  them,  and  have  hated 
them,  and  have  not  sought  to  recover  them. 
But  behold,  I  will  return  all  these  things 
upon  your  own  heads;  for  I  the  Lord  have 
not  forgotten  my  people. 

Thou  fool,  that  shall  say:  A  Bible,  we  have 
got  a  Bible,  and  we  need  no  more  Bible. 
Have  ye  obtained  a  Bible  save  it  were  by 
the  Jews?  (2  Nephi  29:3-6.) 

It  would  therefore  appear  that  the 
Lord  has  indicated  that  the  curses  and 
hatred  that  we  pronounce  upon  the  Jews 
he  will  return  upon  our  own  heads,  and 


26 

Friday,  October  5 

he  indicates  his  displeasure  that  we 
"have  not  sought  to  recover  them." 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  leave  this 
thought  with  you  (there  is  not  suffi- 
cient time  further  to  develop  this  sub- 
ject), that  we  need  the  co-operation  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints;  we  need  to  be 
careful  what  we  say.  The  Lord  has 
said  that  we  should  no  "longer  hiss,  nor 
spurn,  nor  make  game  of  the  Jews." 
Some  of  them  who  have  been  investi- 
gating our  message  have  come  into  our 
meetings  and  have  heard  such  state- 
ments as  "a  Jewish  trick"  and  "we 
Jewed  them  down."  If  we  are  to  win 
these  people  unto  the  restored  Church 
of  Christ  according  to  the  promise  of 
the  Lord,  it  will  be  because  we  show 
forth  kindness  unto  them  and  reach 
out  our  hands  to  try  to  share  with  them 
the  glorious  truths  of  the  gospel. 

It  is  my  privilege  to  be  personally  ac- 
quainted with  quite  a  few  converted 
Jews  of  prominence,  and  I  find  in  their 
hearts  the  same  love  of  God,  the  same 
love  of  the  truth,  the  same  testimony  of 
the  divinity  of  the  work,  that  you  and 
I  have,  and  I  would  like  to  have  read 
to  you  some  of  their  testimonies,  but 
time  will  not  permit.  I  have  burning 
in  my  soul  a  testimony  that  if  we  will 
be  kind  to  them,  the  Lord  will  richly 
reward  us  for  every  kindness  we  show 
unto  these,  our  brethren  of  the  house 
of  Israel. 

There  is  a  question  with  some  as  to 
when  the  times  of  the  gentiles  shall  be 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

fulfilled.  The  gospel  came  first  to  the 
Jews  in  the  Meridian  of  Time,  and  then 
to  the  gentiles,  and  the  promise  was  that 
in  the  latter  days  it  would  come  first 
to  the  gentiles  and  then  unto  the  Jews. 
But  you  will  recall  that  the  Lord  did 
not  wait  until  all  the  Jews  were  con- 
verted before  he  sent  the  gospel  to  the 
gentiles,  through  that  marvelous  vision 
and  experience  Peter  had.  It  seems  to 
me  that  if  we  wait  until  all  the  gentiles 
are  converted  before  we  take  the  gospel 
to  the  Jews,  we  shall  never  convert  the 
Jews;  and  yet  the  Lord  promised  them 
that  the  fulness  of  his  gospel  would 
be  preached  unto  them. 

We  have  a  few  faithful  missionaries 
working  with  the  Jewish  people  and  we 
are  getting  some  encouragement  and  I 
extend  to  all  of  you  Latter-day  Saints 
an  invitation  to  help  these  missionaries 
and  to  help  in  this  great  movement,  ac- 
cording to  the  promises  of  the  Lord, 
through  showing  kindness  to  them;  and 
I  bear  you  my  witness  that  if  you  will 
do  this  the  Lord  will  bless  you  for  it, 
as  he  will  for  all  that  you  do  for  the 
building  of  his  kingdom  in  the  earth, 
and  I  leave  you  my  love  and  blessing 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  spirit 
of  the  Lord.  It  has  been  my  high 
privilege  through  the  years  to  ad- 
dress myself  largely  to  the  young  people 
of  this  Church.  Today,  with  fathers 
and  mothers  and  grandfathers  and 
grandmothers — I  want  to  take  the  liberty 
of  speaking  to  them  all.  Through  the 
years  one  commandment  has  been  in- 
tensified because  of  my  travel  in  many 
lands,  and  my  association  with  many 
people,  to  make  it  really  part  of  my  life. 
I  recite  briefly  the  fourth  command- 
ment: Keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy. 


In  the  Old  Testament  we  read  that 
keeping  the  Sabbath  was  made  a  sign 
between  Jehovah  and  the  Israelites: 

Six  days  may  work  be  done;  but  in  the 
seventh  is  the  sabbath  of  rest,  holy  to  the 
Lord:  .  .  . 

(May  I  inject,  for  I  sense  deeply  to 
whom  I  am  talking.  Yes,  I  appeal  to 
you  to  keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy.  Meet- 
ings, meetings,  meetings,  but  never  lose 
sight  of  the  great  commandment  of  God 
to  keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy.) 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 


27 


Wherefore  the  children  of  Israel  shall 
keep  the  sabbath,  to  observe  the  sabbath 
throughout  their  generations,  for  a  per- 
petual covenant. 

It  is  a  sign  between  me  and  the  children 
of  Israel  for  ever:  for  in  six  days  the  Lord 
made  heaven  and  earth,  and  on  the  seventh 
day  he  rested,  and  was  refreshed.  (Ex.  31:15- 
17.) 

This  counsel  still  remains  with  us  to- 
day, and  brings  its  many  blessings  to 
us.  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  has  said: 
"Keeping  the  Sabbath  day  builds  a  man 
physically,  mentally,  and  spiritually. 
Physically  he  may  rest  and  have  a 
change  of  occupation.  Mentally,  be- 
cause he  is  engaged  in  quorum  and  other 
meetings,  private  reading  and  studying. 
Spiritually,  because  the  day  is  dedicated 
to  the  Lord.  Spiritual  communion,  con- 
templation, these  are  two  essentials  of 
the  Sabbath:  It  is  a  day  of  rest.  It 
should  be  kept  holy." 

On  the  Sabbath  day  every  person 
shall  attend  religious  meetings;  fast,  if 
desired,  but  always  fast  on  the  day 
designated  as  fast  day;  partake  of  the 
Sacrament,  another  opportunity,  with  all 
its  great  teachings;  bear  testimony  of  the 
Lord's  truth  and  goodness.  I  call  your 
attention  especially  to  the  next:  Make 
right  any  misunderstandings  with  your 
fellow  men.  Do  all  things  with  single- 
ness of  heart  toward  the  divine  purpose 
of  the  Sabbath  day.  It  then  becomes  a 
day  of  blessing,  rejoicing,  and  prayer. 
When  this  is  done,  life-giving  satisfac- 
tion comes  from  a  Sabbath  well  kept. 

Latter-day  Saints  of  today  often  face 
the  question:  "Are  we  expected  to  ob- 
serve the  Sabbath  day  in  the  spirit  in 
which  the  original  commandment  was 
given,  or  have  changing  conditions  modi- 
fied and  liberalized  our  living  so  that 
we  may  engage  in  some  activities  which 
in  the  past  have  been  banned?"  To 
every  Latter-day  Saint  the  answer  is: 
Keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy.  The  com- 
mand to  observe  the  Lord's  day  was 
first  given  as  one  of  the  Ten  Command- 
ments to  the  children  of  Israel  from  Mt. 
Sinai.  Since  that  time  it  has  been  re- 
iterated in  every  dispensation. 

The  Bible  is  clear,  but  as  far  as  that 
record  is  concerned,  to  its  very  end 
Sabbath  observance  continues  to  be  the 
law  of  the  Lord.   The  Book  of  Mormon 


definitely  makes  the  same  command- 
ment a  part  of  the  gospel  teaching.  The 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  most  mod- 
ern scripture,  confirms  this  teaching, 
and  enjoins  strict  observance  of  the 
Sabbath  day.  At  no  time  has  there  been 
any  pronouncement,  scriptural  or  other- 
wise, to  change  the  commandment. 
Therefore,  regardless  of  what  other 
churches  may  sanction,  Latter-day  Saints 
are  under  the  obligation  to  give  strict 
observance,  to  rest  from  their  labors, 
and  to  pay  devotion  to  the  Most  High. 

Advance  preparation  could  limit  even 
household  duties  to  a  minimum.  On 
Saturday  in  my  grandmother's  home  the 
shoes  were  polished  and  placed  in  rows. 
Pies  were  baked,  and  the  weekly  bath 
was  taken  care  of. 

Pioneers  observed  the  Sabbath  day 
as  they  crossed  the  plains.  From  Re- 
becca Winters'  diary  I  quote: 

We  camped  early  on  a  Saturday  in  August. 
We  had  broken  our  wagons,  and  we  wished 
to  mend  our  shoes.  Washing  and  cooking 
to  be  done,  for  Sunday  was  always  observed. 
All  retired  early  for  rest,  waiting  for  that 
lovely  dawn,  the  hour  when  we  sang  praises 
to  God.  As  we  sat  and  waited  in  our  church 
in  the  forest  for  words  of  inspiration,  the 
men  wore  their  clean  hickory  shirts,  and 
the  women  and  children  had  clean  starched 
bonnets.  "How  Firm  a  Foundation"  was 
sung.  Prayer  was  offered.  Testimonies 
were  borne.  The  gospel  was  preached,  and 
counsel  and  instruction  given  by  our  Cap- 
tain. All  felt  to  renew  their  diligence  in 
serving  the  Lord,  and  with  fresh  hope  in 
their  hearts  they  would  soon  meet  with  the 
faithful  in  the  Valley.  So  was  spent  the 
Sabbath  on  the  plains. 

So  important  did  this  principle  be- 
come a  part  of  family  life  in  a  southern 
Utah  city  that  a  good  mother,  although 
very  ill,  called  her  boys  to  her  bedside 
and  said:  "Never  put  a  harness  on  a 
horse  on  the  Sabbath  day."  This  coun- 
sel has  been  kept,  and  this  family  has 
become  one  of  southern  Utah's  most 
prosperous  families,  and  all  have  enjoyed 
living  the  good  life. 

The  spirit  of  rest,  worship,  and  prayer 
should  be  fostered  and  made  a  part  of 
every  Latter-day  Saint  home.  May  we 
live  and  enjoy  this  commandment  of 
the  Lord,  and  especially  give  it  to  our 
children,  our  neighbors'  children,  and 
friends:  "Six  days  may  work  be  done;" 


28 

Friday,  October  5 

but  on  the  seventh,  may  we  keep  it  a 
day  holy  to  the  Lord,  I  humbly  pray. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  The  congregation  will  now 
join  in  singing,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 
After  the  singing,  Elder  EIRay  L. 
Christiansen  will  speak  to  us. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 
Elder  Christiansen  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion,  who  will  be 
our  concluding  speaker. 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1 stand  before  you  in  deep  humility, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  and  with  a 
prayer  in  my  heart  that  what  I  might 
say  may  be  of  some  encouragement  to 
all  of  us.  I  should  like  to  base  my  re- 
marks upon  a  divine  truth  that  is  found 
in  the  Book  of  Proverbs.  It  reads  as 
follows: 

For  the  commandment  is  a  lamp;  and 
the  law  is  light;  and  reproofs  of  instruc- 
tion are  the  way  of  life.  (Prov.  6:23.) 

There  are  good  people  in  every  seg- 
ment of  life  who  have  developed  an 
erroneous  philosophy  that  the  laws  of 
God,  even  the  great  Ten  Command- 
ments, are  intended  only  for  certain 
people;  for  those  whom  they  describe  as 
being  extremely  religious,  or  for  the 
less  fortunate;  that  while  it  is  essential 
to  observe  the  laws  of  the  land,  it  mat- 
ters little  or  none  if  one  observes  the 
laws  of  God.  Some  of  these  people  feel 
that  the  laws  of  God  are  inhibitions  to 
one's  freedom,  and  that  they  who  are 
not  religiously  inclined  are  automatically 
exempt  from  the  laws  and  command- 
ments of  the  Lord;  that  if  one  minds 
his  own  business  and  lives  his  own  life, 
so  to  speak,  he  has  sufficient  religion  for 
his  own  welfare,  and  that  salvation  and 
joy  everlasting  somehow  will  be  forth- 
coming. 

Surely  these  are  short-sighted  views. 
Actually,  the  laws  and  commandments 
of  the  Lord  are  the  foundation  principles 
upon  which  lives  of  happiness,  suc- 
cess, and  peace  are  built.   They  are  de- 


signed to  bless  and  benefit  all  mankind. 
The  love  of  the  Lord  is  universal,  all- 
inclusive.    He  has  said: 

Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great 
in  the  sight  of  God; 

For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer 
suffered  death  in  the  flesh;  wherefore  he 
suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men 
might  repent  and  come  unto  him.  (D  &  C 
18:10-11.) 

that  we  might  come  home  to  him,  as  it 
were. 

As  a  Church,  we  believe  that  through 
the  atonement  of  Christ  all  mankind 
may  be  saved  by  obedience  to  the  laws 
and  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  and 
that  because  of  his  great  love  for  man 
the  Lord  has  granted  each  of  us  an  op- 
portunity to  live  in  the  flesh,  and 
through  obedience  to  the  laws  of  the 
gospel,  find  happiness  and  peace  here, 
and  prepare  to  live  hereafter  in  a 
"state  of  never-ending  happiness,"  as 
the  Book  of  Mormon  expressed  it. 

But  the  Lord  does  his  work  according 
to  eternal  principles  and  eternal  laws. 
While  he  is  a  God  of  love,  he  is  also 
a  God  of  order.  He  does  not  deviate 
from  the  established  principles  and  laws. 
He  and  they  are  the  same  yesterday, 
today,  and  forever.  The  laws  and  con- 
ditions prescribed  for  the  welfare  of 
mankind  cannot  be  changed  nor  cir- 
cumvented, because  they  are  divine, 
and  were  declared  before  the  foundation 
of  the  world  was  laid.  They  are,  in  fact, 
the  only  means  by  which  we  can  have 


ELDER  ELRAY  L. 

that  peace  of  mind  here,  and  gain  eternal 
life  hereafter.  This  is  expressed  in  a 
great  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith: 

For  all  who  will  have  a  blessing  at  my 
hands  shall  abide  the  law  which  was  ap- 
pointed for  that  blessing,  and  the  conditions 
thereof,  as  were  instituted  from  before  the 
foundation  of  the  world.  (Ibid.,  132:5.) 

So,  brothers  and  sisters,  we  need  sim- 
ply to  remember  that  which  is  expected 
of  us.  The  Lord  will  remember  that 
which  is  expected  of  him. 

Now,  his  commandments  are  not 
grievous.  They  are  not  oppressive.  We 
sing  in  one  of  our  hymns:  "How  gentle 
God's  commands!  How  kind  his  pre- 
cepts are!"  The  laws  of  God  are  not 
given  to  us  to  burden  us  nor  to  handicap 
us.  They  are  not  impositions!  They 
are  the  statutes  which  must  be  observed 
if  the  purpose  of  life  and  existence  is  to 
be  realized.  Even  those  who  are  called 
to  go  through  trial,  sorrow,  tribulation, 
and  adversity  are  promised  that,  if  they 
are  faithful,  the  reward  to  them  for 
such  obedience  may  be  even  greater. 
It  is  comforting  to  read  the  word  of  the 
Lord  in  regard  to  that: 

For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  blessed  is  he 
that  keepeth  my  commandments,  whether 
in  life  or  in  death;  and  he  that  is  faithful 
in  tribulation,  the  reward  of  the  same  is 
greater  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

Ye  cannot  behold  with  your  natural 
eyes,  for  the  present  time,  the  design  of 
your  God  concerning  those  things  which 
shall  come  hereafter,  and  the  glory  which 
shall  follow  after  much  tribulation. 

For  after  much  tribulation  come  the  bless- 
ings. Wherefore  the  day  cometh  that  ye 
shall  be  crowned  with  much  glory;  the  hour 
is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand.  (Ibid., 
58:2-4.) 

If  one  is  inclined  to  question  the 
advocacy  of  observing  the  law,  whether 
it  be  the  laws  of  man,  the  laws  of  nature, 
or  the  laws  of  God,  he  should  consider 
these  words  of  the  Lord: 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that 
which  is  governed  by  law  is  also  preserved 
by  law  and  perfected  and  sanctified  by  the 
same.  (Ibid.,  88:34) 


CHRISTIANSEN  29 

There  is  a  reciprocal  blessing  from 
observing  the  law. 

That  which  breaketh  a  law,  and  abideth 
not  by  law,  but  seeketh  to  become  a  law 
unto  itself,  and  willeth  to  abide  in  sin, 
and  altogether  abideth  in  sin,  cannot  be 
sanctified  by  law,  neither  by  mercy,  justice, 
nor  judgment.  (Ibid.,  88:35.) 

Observance  of  law  brings  harmony, 
peace,  and  order.  Without  observance 
of  law  there  is  found  confusion,  sor- 
row, remorse,  failure,  whether  it  be  the 
laws  of  man  or  the  laws  of  God,  whether 
it  be  nations,  or  whether  it  be  indi- 
viduals. There  are  those  who  ask,  (they 
have  asked  me  and  really  that  is  the 
reason  I  am  speaking  along  this  line), 
"If  the  Lord  loves  us  why  does  he  then 
give  so  many  commandments,  many 
of  them  restrictive  in  their  nature?" 
The  answer  is  because  he  loves  us.  He 
wishes  to  save  us  from  sorrow,  remorse, 
failure,  and  from  losing  our  blessings. 

While  I  was  attending  a  conference 
in  California  not  so  long  ago,  I  was 
told  of  one  of  our  members  living  there, 
whose  business  it  is  to  assist  those  who 
are  in  difficulty,  that  he  had  been  given 
permission  to  interview  a  fine  young 
man  who  was  in  serious  trouble  with 
the  law.  The  interviewer  asked  this 
question:  "Would  you  mind  giving  me 
the  dominant  reason  for  your  being 
here  in  this  condition?"  This  young 
man,  after  a  moment's  thought,  replied: 
"I  am  here  because  no  one  loved  me 
enough  to  correct  me." 

Now,  the  Lord  loves  us  enough  to 
say  "Thou  shalt  not."  The  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  perfect  law  of  liberty, 
according  to  the  Apostle  James.  God  is 
its  author.  He  sets  forth  the  conditions. 
He  is  its  fountainhead.  The  gospel  is 
a  great  system  of  laws — which  laws  are 
eternal  principles  by  which  our  Father 
in  heaven  designs  to  save  mankind,  his 
sons  and  his  daughters,  and  not  only 
to  save  them,  but  also  to  share  with 
them  all  that  the  Father  has — associa- 
tions with  those  we  love,  honor,  powers, 
glory,  dominions,  and  even  exaltations. 

But  while  he  gives  us  commandments, 
he  also  gives  us  the  freedom,  the  liberty 
to  reject  them  if  we  so  choose.  As  he 
spoke  to  Adam  and  Eve  in  the  garden, 
he  told  them  they  could  eat  of  every 


30 

Friday,  October  5 

tree  of  the  garden.  This  they  were  free 
to  do.  However,  he  gave  command- 
ment that  they  should  not  eat  of  the 
Tree  of  the  Knowledge  of  Good  and 
Evil,  or  the  penalty  of  death  would 
follow.  They  could  eat  of  it  if  they 
wished,  but  they  must  remember  that 
he  forbade  it.  They  were  at  liberty 
to  break  the  commandment.  Their 
liberty  was  not  restricted,  but  if  they 
did  eat  of  the  tree,  they  would  have  to 
pay  the  penalty. 

As  it  was  with  our  first  parents,  so  it 
is  with  us.  We  have  the  divine  right 
and  also  the  individual  responsibility  to 
determine  whether  we  will  accept  or 
whether  we  will  reject  the  laws  and 
principles  and  commandments  of  God. 
But  my,  how  grateful  we  ought  to  be 
that  these  laws  are  given  us  to  direct 
us,  that  we  may  not  lose  our  way  in 
darkness  and  misunderstanding,  and 
with  the  vain  philosophies  of  the  world. 

How  thankful  we  ought  to  be  for 
such  truths  as  these: 

Men  are,  that  they  might  have  joy.  (2 
Nephi  2:25.) 

I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what 
I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what  I  say,  ye 
have  no  promise.  (D  &  C  82:10.) 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in 
heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predi- 
cated— 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon 
which  it  [that  blessing]  is  predicated.  (Ibid., 
130:20-21.) 

And,  finally,  this  most  beautiful 
statement  of  King  Benjamin  in  his  ad- 
dress: 

And  moreover,  I  would  desire  that  ye 
should  consider  on  the  blessed  and  happy 
state  of  those  that  keep  the  commandments 
of  God.  For  behold,  they  are  blessed  in 
all  things,  both  temporal  and  spiritual; 
and  if  they  hold  out  faithful  to  the  end 
they  are  received  into  heaven,  that  thereby 
they  may  dwell  with  God  in  a  state  of 
never-ending  happiness.  O  remember,  re- 
member that  these  things  are  true;  for  the 
Lord  hath  spoken  it.  (Mosiah  2:41.) 

May  we  also  be  grateful  for  these 
laws,  and  use  them  for  the  purpose  for 
which  they  are  designed,  to  sanctify 
and  perfect  our  lives,  that  we  too  may 
dwell  with  him  in  a  never-ending  state 
of  happiness,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  has  just  concluded  speak- 
ing. We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Adam  S.  Bennion  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  Brother  Bennion  has  just  re- 
cently returned  from  an  assignment  to 
the  European  Missions. 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  and  my  beloved 
brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  fathers 
and  mothers  sitting  in  this  audience, 
and  I  feel  sure  listening  in  at  their 
radios,  whose  sons  and  daughters  I  have 
seen  and  fellowshiped  with  in  the  last 
five  months.  I  trust  that  I  may  enjoy 
the  blessing  of  our  Father  in  heaven  to 
bring  you  in  some  little  measure  the 
spirit  under  which  those  grand  young 
people  are  working.  You  can  be  proud 
of  them.  I  have  never  been  so  proud 
of  the  young  people  of  the  Church  as 
I  have  in  these  last  five  months. 

Since  April  we  have  traveled  31,000 
miles.  We  have  addressed  32,000  people 
and  have  sat  in  and  discussed  with,  and 


taken  a  little  note  on  1,056  missionaries, 
all  of  whom  we  have  heard  in  testimony, 
and  all  of  whom  would  like  to  send  to 
you  the  new  love  they  have  developed 
since  they  left  home.  Home  never 
seems  so  sweet  as  when  you  are  away 
from  it,  and  they  know  it. 

I  give  you  my  witness  that  they  have 
realized  the  promise  that  the  Lord  gave 
his  missionaries  of  an  earlier  genera- 
tion. The  occasion  for  the  blessing  was 
in  the  case  of  James  Covill,  who  was  to 
go  upon  a  mission,  and  who  had  this 
wonderful  promise  given  by  way  of 
revelation  through  the  Prophet  Joseph: 

Thou  shalt  preach  the  fulness  of  my  gos- 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


31 


pel,  which  I  have  sent  forth  in  these  last 
days,  the  covenant  which  I  have  sent  forth 
to  recover  my  people,  which  are  of  the 
house  of  Israel. 

Now,  notice  this  promise: 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  power  shall 
rest  upon  thee;  thou  shalt  have  great  faith, 
and  I  will  be  with  thee  and  go  before  thy 
face.  (D  &  C  39:11-12.) 

Over  and  over  again  those  boys  in 
European  missions  have  said,  "We  never 
call  on  a  house  alone,"  and  then  they 
add,  "and  we  are  not  talking  about  our 
companions." 

This  has  been  the  most  tremendous 
experience  of  our  lives.  So  many  things 
could  be  said.  I  have  to  be  impersonal. 
There  are  ten  wonderful  mission  presi- 
dents laboring  in  the  field,  all  of  them 
doing  excellent  work.  Let  me  say  to 
you  parents  by  way  of  assurance,  the 
mission  presidents  and  their  wives  treat 
these  young  men  and  women  as  if  they 
were  their  own  children.  They  could 
not  be  more  thoughtful  and  more  care- 
ful. I  just  regret  that  I  cannot  pay 
them  the  tribute  they  so  richly  deserve. 
They,  their  wives,  their  staffs,  all  con- 
nected with  the  missions,  are  working 
wonderfully.  I  give  you  this  little  evi- 
dence: 

By  the  end  of  June  the  European  mis- 
sions had  done  as  much  in  the  matter  of 
conversions,  eighty  percent  as  much,  as 
they  did  in  all  of  1955;  three  missions 
by  the  end  of  June  had  already  equaled 
or  surpassed  the  totals  reached  in  the 
preceding  year.  I  give  you,  because  you 
may  have  a  particular  interest,  the 
names  of  the  three  missions:  the  Swiss- 
Austrian — it  is  evident  that  the  temple 
is  registering  its  great  influence;  the 
Norwegian — which  now  has  doubled 
last  year's  record;  and  the  Finnish — 
and  I  wish  I  could  bring  you  the  full 
beauties  of  Finland;  somehow  I  seemed 
to  think  it  was  going  to  be  the  end  of 
the  earth,  but  they  are  wonderful  peo- 
ple. I  think  patriotism  has  never  been 
more  strongly  asserted  than  in  that  land 
of  freedom  which  prays  never  to  be 
subject  to  Russia  on  the  east  and  never 
to  be  conquered  by  Sweden  on  the  west. 
You  who  love  liberty,  I  wish  you  could 
have  listened  while  they  sang  Finlandia 


under  the  inspiration  of  the  leader  of 
the  symphony  orchestra  in  Finland.  I 
refer  to  it  only  as  typical  of  the  wonder- 
ful things  we  found  in  Europe. 

I  have  to  confess  the  urge  to  give  a 
travelog  is  very  great,  but  I  won't  do  it. 
I  have  been  asked  over  and  over  again 
which  is  the  most  wonderful  of  all 
the  countries,  and  I  say,  "All  of  them." 
Every  country  has  its  own  charm.  To 
me  they  are  all  wonderful.  They  are 
lovely.  It  just  seemed  to  me  as  if  we 
were  driving  through  a  perpetual  park, 
and  the  people  are  correspondingly  won- 
derful. They  opened  their  hearts  to  us 
— kindliness  and  consideration  at  every 
turn. 

I  have  said  this  a  number  of  times. 
I  think  if  you  could  take  two  hundred 
people  out  of  each  city  that  we  visited 
and  put  them  down  in  some  faraway 
corner — if  you  could  not  hear  them 
speak — I  am  sure  you  would  not  know 
where  to  return  them.  God's  children 
are  his  children  wherever  they  live,  and 
when  they  belong  to  this  Church,  after 
you  have  been  with  them  ten  minutes 
you  feel  quite  as  much  at  home  as  if 
you  were  in  your  own  land. 

While  I  do  not  want  to  indulge  in 
a  travelog,  I  hope  you  will  give  me  the 
liberty  of  saying  three  things  about  our 
impressions.  I  have  mentioned  the 
beauty  of  Europe.   It  is  lovely  country. 

The  second  thing  I  want  to  say  about 
Europe  is  that  they  are  making  such 
an  heroic  recovery.  The  cities  that  once 
were  bombed  and  blasted — I  know  there 
are  a  few  stark  and  empty  buildings 
standing  like  scarecrows  on  the  horizon 
of  civilization — but  city  after  city  is  now 
being  built  in  a  newness,  a  modernity,  a 
richness  that  bespeaks  the  sacrifice  of 
those  people. 

The  third  thing  I  want  to  say  about 
Europe — I  had  fun  in  the  British  Isles 
because  I  said  if  there's  anything  the 
matter  with  us  Americans  you  have  to 
take  part  of  the  responsibility — because 
we  are  your  grandchildren.  It  is  a  won- 
derful thing  to  walk  where  your  grand- 
father once  walked,  and  I  had  the 
gracious  privilege,  thanks  to  the  courtesy 
of  these  same  wonderful  people,  to  be 
where  my  people  have  been  and  from 
which  lands  they  came,  Wales  on  my 


32 

Friday,  October  5 

father's  side,  and  Scotland  on  my  moth- 
er's. I  turn  to  President  McKay  be- 
cause all  the  time  we  were  in  Scotland 
they  honored  him  with  the  name  of 
McKay,  and  they  love  you.  I  bring  the 
greetings  of  all  the  people  we  met  to 
these  grand  folk  among  whom  it  is  my 
privilege  to  labor. 

You  know,  I  could  not  escape  the 
thought  all  the  time  I  was  in  Wales 
and  Scotland  of  what  my  grandfolks 
thought  when  they  crossed  the  plains. 
I  am  sure  they  must  have  cast  one  linger- 
ing look  behind  to  the  green  they  left 
in  both  lands.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I 
became  aware  of  another  great  truth 
in  my  life.  If  they  had  not  listened  to 
some  wonderful  missionary,  and  some 
missionary  had  not  been  good  enough  to 
go  to  them,  I  might  never  have  been 
born  in  the  Church.  As  a  matter  of 
fact,  as  I  stood  in  Hawarden,  Wales,  it 
just  dawned  upon  me  that  maybe  if 
they  had  not  so  listened,  I  would  not 
even  have  been.  That  is  a  sobering 
thought  for  one  who  loves  life. 

I  want  to  add  one  other  note.  My 
first  experience  was  to  talk  to  the  serv- 
icemen— our  servicemen — at  Berchtes- 
gaden,  under  the  Eagle's  Nest  of  Hitler, 
his  great  hideout.  If  you  have  boys  who 
are  in  the  service — I  have  been  stirred 
a  lot  of  times,  but  I  think  I  was  never 
stirred  more  than  as  I  joined  with  740 
boys  of  the  armed  services  who  took 
time  out  to  come  to  a  testimony  meet- 
ing, and  to  do  honor  to  the  Church  they 
represent  so  beautifully  in  their  lives. 

I  closed  the  tour  by  flying  from  Glas- 
gow back  to  Heidelberg  to  dedicate  a 
chapel,  and  the  reason  they  wanted  to 
dedicate  it  while  one  of  us  was  still  in 
Europe  was  that  we  might  say  thanks 
to  those  boys  who  were  to  be  released 
from  the  service  in  October  and  Novem- 
ber. Do  you  know  that  those  boys  over 
there  in  the  service  of  our  country,  out 
of  their  earnings,  toward  a  chapel  which 
they  would  never  remain  to  enjoy,  con- 
tributed $5,000  that  it  might  be  dedi- 
cated? It  has  been  dedicated,  and  may 
I  quote  the  chaplain  of  the  armed  forces 
of  the  United  States  in  Europe,  who  at 
that  dedicatory  program  said:  "I  just 
wish,  Mr.  Bennion,  that  all  of  us  could 
live  the  ideals  of  your  Mormon  boys." 
I  say  that,  out  of  appreciation  to  these 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

fine  young  men  who  bear  our  colors 
with  honor  and  distinction. 

Now  just  briefly — if  I  have  a  theme 
today — I  would  pick  it  out  of  that  one 
line  quoted  by  our  beloved  President 
this  morning,  ".  .  .  he  that  loseth  his  life 
for  my  sake  shall  find  it."  (Matt.  10:39.) 
If  there  is  one  group  of  devoted  folk  in 
this  Church — of  course  you  fine  men 
and  women  are  all  devoted — it's  these 
boys  who  have  taken  two  or  two  and 
a  half  years  out  of  their  lives  to  pro- 
claim the  truths  of  the  gospel.  They 
breathe  it;  they  think  it;  they  eat  and 
drink  it;  they  work  day  and  night  in 
the  interest  of  this  great  Church. 

For  five  months  it  has  been  my  privi- 
lege to  be  close  to  them.  I  think  I 
caught  the  pulse  of  their  feeling,  and 
all  the  time  I  have  been  impressed  with 
this  thought:  "What  the  gospel  does  for 
people!"  To  me  it  is  tremendous.  You 
can  argue  against  a  passage,  but  you 
cannot  argue  against  a  life.  There  is  an 
argument  against  a  theory,  but  there 
is  no  argument  against  kindliness  and 
goodness. 

Now  for  a  brief  moment,  I  wish  I 
could  take  you  with  me  to  those  testi- 
mony meetings.  What  the  gospel  does 
for  these  missionaries!  Young  men  just 
out  of  their  teens,  taking  on  the  re- 
sponsibility of  manhood,  are  the  repre- 
sentatives of  our  great  institution 
throughout  the  world.  They  are  carry- 
ing on  with  all  the  glory  that  attaches 
to  mankind  at  its  best.  Over  and  over 
again  brethren  have  said  two  things  in 
their  meetings:  "We  suppose  we  always 
had  a  testimony  of  the  gospel,  but  we 
somehow  took  it  for  granted.  We  did 
not  know  just  why  we  believed,  or  how 
much  it  meant.  We  looked  upon  the 
gospel  much  as  we  did  upon  our  par- 
ents— a  part  of  the  heritage  we  are  born 
to,  but  necessarily  just  part  of  it.  Not 
any  longer!" 

Do  you  want  to  catch  the  spirit  of 
them?  We  have  both  our  own  young 
men  and  women  and  those  who  have 
been  called  from  Europe.  Look  in  just 
for  a  minute  as  a  young  German  girl 
stands  up  to  bear  her  testimony  and 
prefaces  what  she  says  with  the  re- 
mark: "You  will  understand,  Brother 
Bennion,  that  when  I  joined  the  Church 
I  had  to  give  up  my  family.  I  get  along 


ELDER  ADAM 

fine  except  on  mail  day.  When  the 
letters  come,  and  the  missionaries  are 
so  thrilled  to  get  a  word  from  home,  it  is 
awfully  hard  when  you  never  get  a 
letter  from  home." 

I  am  going  to  say  it  before  I  sit  down. 
We  have  a  phrase  in  English,  but  they 
have  a  better  one  in  Scandinavian.  We 
say,  when  we  get  emotionally  disturbed, 
we  get  a  lump  in  our  throats,  and  I 
have  one  right  now.  I  cannot  think  of 
that  girl,  I  cannot  see  her  and  know 
what  she  is  doing  for  two  years  in  the 
absence  of  all  parental  consideration 
or  even  interest.  Well,  I  do  get  a  lump 
in  my  throat,  but  I  like  the  Scandi- 
navian phrase  better.  They  say  they 
get  a  clump  i  halsen.  I  love  that  word 
"clump."  I  told  them  I  was  going  to 
bring  it  home. 

I  wish  you  could  sit  down  with  a  boy 
and  have  him  take  out  the  last  letter  he 
got  from  home  and  Dad,  and  have  him 
say,  "You  know,  the  thing  that  thrills 
me  most  about  my  mission  is  that  I 
think  I  am  having  a  little  to  do  with 
converting  my  own  folks."  Then  they 
will  tell  you  that  their  father  had  been 
disinterested  or  unconcerned,  but  now 
he  writes  of  the  thrill  he  gets  out  of 
being  a  stake  missionary.  I  wish  you 
could  see  the  boys'  faces  light  up  as  they 
say,  "It's  wonderful  to  know  that  the 
mission  is  converting  both  of  us." 

I  do  not  think  I  remember  anything 
more  vividly  than  I  do  the  story  of  one 
boy  who  broke  completely  in  his  testi- 
mony. He  said,  "You  know,  I  did  not 
know  what  was  going  on  at  home,  and 
when  I  got  ready  to  leave,  Mom  said 
she  was  going  to  get  me  a  fine  suitcase. 
So  we  went  down  and  looked  over  the 
luggage.  I  picked  the  piece  that  I 
wanted,  and  when  I  picked  it  out  she 
went  into  her  pocketbook  and  pulled 
out  six  and  a  half  books  of  S  &  H  stamps 
that  she  had  been  saving  through  the 
years  for  the  day  when  her  son  would 
go  on  a  mission."  And  then  as  he 
broke  completely,  he  said,  "The  thing 
that  troubles  me  today  is  that  I  don't 
believe  I  said  thanks."  But  he  said 
thanks  in  our  meeting.  That  boy  will 
never  be  the  same  again,  and  I  just 
hope  that  some  of  his  gratitude  rubs 
off  through  what  I  say  so  briefly  today 
upon  the  heart  of  that  good  woman. 

Well,  it's  a  wonderful  thing  to  sit 


S.  BENNION  33 

in  with  a  thousand  boys  and  let  them 
bare  their  souls,  open  their  hearts,  and 
tell  you  just  how  they  feel,  and  give 
the  evidence  that  they  are  born  anew, 
that  the  great,  new,  glorious  gospel  is 
in  their  souls.  You  can  be  proud  of 
them.  They  are  willing;  they  are  happy; 
they  are  working  hard. 

If  I  had  the  time,  I  would  love  to  tell 
you  what  they  are  doing  in  their  street 
meetings.  They  have  developed  an 
ingenuity  that  is  almost  unbelievable. 
Not  only  are  they  doing  a  work  of  which 
you  can  be  proud,  but  I  assure  you  they 
love  you! 

I  want  you  to  visit  just  for  a  few  min- 
utes with  me  with  the  Saints  over  there. 
How  I  wish  you  could  see  what  the  gos- 
pel does  for  them.  They  are  wonder- 
ful. As  we  held  our  meetings,  I  de- 
veloped the  practice  of  calling  a  few 
people  up  from  the  audience  to  come 
and  stand  by  me.  I  think  maybe  it  was 
a  defense  mechanism.  I  could  not  speak 
their  language,  and  I  felt  a  little  more 
comfortable  if  I  had  three  or  four  of 
them  around  me. 

Through  the  interpreter  I  asked  a 
man  who  had  been  in  the  Church  fifty- 
eight  years  what  the  gospel  meant  to 
him,  and  he  said,  "Sir,  it's  my  life.  It's 
everything  I  cherish." 

I  asked  a  young  woman  who  had  been 
married  twenty-five  years,  but  still 
looked  wonderfully  young,  "How  can 
you  look  so  young?"  and  she  said,  "It's 
the  gospel  that  does  it — it's  the  peace 
and  the  happiness  we  have  in  our 
home." 

A  young  man  of  ten  years'  member- 
ship said,  "I  bless  the  day  when  a 
lovely  young  woman  told  me  she  would 
not  marry  me  until  I  joined  the 
Church,"  and  he  added,  "I  bless  her 
for  a  new  life." 

I  asked  a  young  man  of  five  years' 
membership  what  the  gospel  meant  to 
him,  and  he  said,  "Brother  Bennion,  I 
think  I  can  say  it  all  if  I  tell  you  I  am 
only  five  years  old.  I  never  lived  until 
I  got  to  know  this  gospel." 

And  a  lad  of  only  three  months'  mem- 
bership said,  "Nobody  ever  could  have 
told  me  that  anything  could  do  for 
me  what  this  gospel  has  already  done." 

I  wish  you  could  have  sat  in  Berlin 
the  Sunday  we  had  840  people  gathered 
together.   You  would  have  thrilled,  too, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


34 

Friday,  October  5 

when  the  Saints  from  the  West  sector 
said  to  the  people  of  the  East,  who  came 
from  out  yonder,  "You  have  been  hiding 
in  basements  long  enough.  You  go  up- 
stairs with  the  brethren,  where  you  can 
see  and  hear  them,  and  this  morning 
we  will  go  downstairs." 

Then,  before  the  meeting  was  over,  the 
Saints  from  the  East  had  the  gracious- 
ness  to  say,  "Brother  Bennion,  we  do 
not  feel  good  about  this.  Are  you  too 
tired  to  meet  with  the  people  who  went 
into  the  basement  if  they  would  come 
back  tonight?" 

In  the  morning  session  I  asked  how 
many  of  those  people  had  lost  loved 
ones,  and  half  the  hands  went  up.  Did 
you  ever  talk  to  an  audience  when  half 
the  hands  went  up  to  tell  you  that  part 
of  the  family  isn't  along?  You  make 
inquiry  of  them  and  discover  from  fine 
young  people  that  they  do  not  know 
where  their  parents  are,  then  have  them 
come  up  and  shake  your  hand  and  tell 
you,  "It's  the  gospel  that  took  us 
through."  That's  what  this  gospel  can 
do  for  people! 

I  must  take  you  into  one  program  in 
England  that  stirred  me  no  end.  I 
saw  a  woman  sitting  down  in  the  audi- 
ence, and  being  impressed  that  she  had 
something  to  say,  I  asked  her  if  she 
would  say  a  word.  She  said,  "I  would 
love  to  say  a  word,  if  you  will  let  me 
say  it  from  down  here.  You  may  not 
know  it,  Brother  Bennion,  but  I  am 
blind,  and  except  for  the  kindness  of 
two  Mormon  missionaries  I  would  have 
nothing  to  do.  They  wrote  home  and 
got  a  Book  of  Mormon  in  Braille  which 
I  am  reading."  Then  she  said  this  won- 
derful thing:  "When  I  was  a  little  girl, 
my  mother  used  to  tell  me  I  must  not 
be  naughty  because  if  I  was  naughty  the 
Mormons  would  get  me.  Now  I  am 
past  middle  age.  I  am  blind.  I  am  not 
naughty,  but  I  want  to  tell  you  and  this 
audience  the  Mormons  have  got  me, 
and  I  am  going  to  be  baptized  this  next 
week." 

Well,  it  has  been  wonderful.  I  have 
hinted  all  too  bri'efly  what  the  gospel 
is  doing  for  the  missionaries.  I  have 
tried  to  indicate  what  it  is  doing  for  the 
Saints,  and  you  can  just  make  up  your 
mind  they  are  wonderful.  They  are  de- 
voted. There  is  not  anything  they 
would  not  do  for  this  Church. 


First  Day 

I  want  to  close  with  my  own  witness 
to  you  of  what  this  gospel  does  for  me. 
I  have  watched  it  in  the  lives  of  those 
people  in  Europe,  and  if  I  had  a  little 
summary  to  make,  I  would  say  these 
things: 

The  gospel  humbles  a  man;  it  mellows 
him;  it  gladdens  him;  it  motivates  him;  it 
sustains  him;  it  redeems  him;  and  it  exalts 
him. 

You  cannot  go  for  five  months  with 
a  clump  i  halsen  and  center  your  heart 
on  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  get  the 
evidences  which  I  do  not  have  the  time 
to  give  you,  without  being  stirred  in 
your  soul.  I  have  been  blessed  in  my 
ministry,  and  I  would  be  ungrateful  if 
I  did  not  say  so.  I  have  seen  the  power 
of  the  priesthood  manifested  in  behalf 
of  people  who  needed  a  blessing  and 
wanted  it,  and  I  say  it  humbly,  I  know 
that  God  lives.  I  have  been  blessed  in 
my  own  life,  under  the  promise  of  the 
eighty-fourth  section  that  those  of  us 
who  give  our  hearts  to  this  work  have 
the  promise  of  Almighty  God  that  we 
shall  be  sanctified  of  the  Spirit  unto 
the  renewing  of  our  bodies.  I  have  felt 
the  spirit  of  this  gospel  as  I  never  have 
before,  and  I  give  you  my  witness  as  I 
close  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
and  that  they  both  came  back  to  declare 
through  the  prophet  Joseph  this  won- 
derful new  message  for  our  benediction. 

I  must  not  sit  down  without  express- 
ing gratitude  that  Sister  Bennion,  the 
companion  of  my  life  through  forty-five 
wonderful  years,  could  go  along.  Her 
companionship  blessed  me,  her  faith  not 
only  sustained  me,  but  with  God's  help 
healed  me.  In  our  home  we  shall  never 
be  the  same  again. 

Now,  don't  anybody  think  that  I  am 
so  in  love  with  Europe  that  I  want  to  go 
back  to  stay.  These  lines  never  meant 
so  much  to  me: 

So,  it's  home  again,  and  home  again 

America  for  me. 
I  want  a  ship  that's  westward  bound 

To  plow  the  rolling  sea, 
To  the  blessed  land  of  room  enough 

Beyond  the  ocean  bars, 
Where  the  air  is  full  of  sunlight 

And  the  flag  is  full  of  stars. 

Van  Dyke 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENN10N 


35 


From  the  bottom  of  our  hearts  we 
thank  you  Brethren  for  the  most  glorious 
experience  of  our  lives.  What  the  gospel 
has  done  for  the  missionaries — for  the 
Saints — and  for  us— it  will  do  for  you, 
too,  I  testify  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Adam 
S.  Bennion  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
who  has  just  returned  from  special  as- 
signment to  European  Missions. 

Tonight  the  Presiding  Bishopric  will 
conduct  a  special  meeting  in  the  Taber- 
nacle at  7  p.m.  Those  expected  to  be 
in  attendance  include  bishops  and 
counselors;  members  of  stake  and  ward 
committees  for  Aaronic  Priesthood  under 
21;  members  of  stake  and  ward  commit- 
tees for  Senior  members  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood;  chairmen  of  stake  commit- 
tees on  ward  teaching  and  division 
supervisors.  Stake  presidencies  and  high 
councilmen  are  invited  to  attend. 

An  agricultural  meeting  sponsored  by 
the  General  Church  Welfare  Committee 
will  be  held  tomorrow  morning  at  7:30 
in  the  Assembly  Hall.  The  following 
are  invited  to  attend:  stake  presidents, 
bishops  or  their  representatives,  all  ward 
and  stake  agricultural  representatives, 
and  others  interested  in  agriculture. 

A  poet  once  wrote: 

The  holiest  words  my  tongue  can  frame 
The  noblest  thoughts  my  soul  can  claim 
Unworthy  are  to  praise  the  name 


More  precious  than  all  others 
An  infant  when  her  love  first  came 
A  man,  I  find  it  still  the  same 
Reverently  I  breathe  her  name 
The  precious  name  of  Mother. 

I  believe  it  is  because  of  this  mother 
love  that  we  are  so  deeply  impressed 
with  the  singing  of  this  group.  That  is 
not  the  only  reason,  however;  I  marvel 
at  the  ability  of  Sister  Madsen  to  gather 
these  mothers  from  distant  parts  and 
inspire  our  hearts  as  she  does,  or  as  they 
do.  Sister  Madsen  composed  a  number 
that  was  sung  especially  for  the  dedica- 
tion of  the  Relief  Society  Building.  I 
am  sure  you  would  like  to  hear  it.  I 
have  passed  her  a  note.  She  may  say 
no,  but  I  hope  she  will  say  yes. 

The  Singing  Mothers  will  sing  as  a 
closing  number  of  this  inspiring  session, 
"Thy  Blessing  on  This  House,  Dear 
Lord." 

That  will  be  followed  by  the  bene- 
diction by  Elder  Vernon  L.  Holman, 
president  of  the  Panguitch  Stake,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  stand  ad- 
journed until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow 
morning. 


Singing  by  the  Singing  Mothers,  "Thy 
Blessing  on  This  House,  Dear  Lord." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
President  Vernon  L.  Holman  of  the 
Panguitch  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock 
a.m.  Saturday,  October  6. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  third  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle  at  10:00 
a.m,.  Saturday,  October  6,  1956. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  of 
the  Conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Combined  Scandinavian  Choirs,  R.  Hul- 
bert  Keddington  conducting,  and  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  Organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  to  all 
listening  in  that  the  Third  Session  of 
the  One  Hundred  Twenty-seventh  Semi- 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  con- 


vened in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City.  All 
General  Authorities  are  present  except- 
ing two,  who  are  detained  because  of 
illness — Elders  Thomas  E.  McKay  and 
Milton  R.  Hunter.  We  welcome  all 
present  in  the  Tabernacle,  which  is 
filled  to  overflowing,  and  are  pleased 
to  announce  that  these  services  are 
being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
in  Barratt  Hall,  over  a  public  address 
system,  and  by  television.  These  serv- 
ices are  also  being  televised  over  KSL 
Television  Channel  5  of  Salt  Lake  City, 
and  will  be  heard  over  Radio  Station 


36 

Saturday,  October  6 

KSL,  and  over  1 1  radio  stations  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Colorado,  and  Nevada.  The 
names  of  these  stations  have  already 
been  announced  to  the  radio  audience. 

We  desire  to  express  our  appreciation 
once  again  to  these  radio  stations  for 
their  courtesy  in  making  available  their 
time  and  facilities  for  these  broadcasts. 
We  welcome  this  morning  special  visi- 
tors, including  39  Servicemen  from 
Lowry  Air  Force  Base,  Denver,  Colorado, 
and  others  whom  we  welcomed  yester- 
day, and  Servicemen  from  various  parts 
who  are  joining  us  in  this  Conference. 
We  appreciate  the  effort  they  have  put 
forth  to  come  here  and  partake  of  the 
spiritual  influence  of  these  gatherings. 

We  welcome  also  Brother  Wallace 
Bennett,  United  States  Senator;  William 
A.  Dawson,  United  States  Congressman; 
Lamont  Toronto,  Secretary  of  State; 
Adiel  F.  Stewart,  Mayor  of  Salt  Lake 
City;  John  L.  Clarke,  president  of  Ricks 
College;  William  Miller,  president  of 
Weber  College;  and  others.  The  presi- 
dent of  the  University  is  absent  this 
morning  because  of  illness. 

We  have  a  message  from  Guatemala. 
"Our  prayers  for  you  and  Saints  con- 
gregated in  the  Tabernacle.  Central 
American  Mission  by  President  Wag- 
ner." We  welcome  all  who  are  listen- 
ing in,  and  who  are  in  attendance.  We 
just  seem  to  be  one  great  congregational 
family  assembled  in  worship  this  Sat- 
urday morning. 

The  singing  for  this  session  is  fur- 
nished by  the  Combined  Scandinavian 
Choirs,  with  R.  Hulbert  Keddington 
conducting,  and  Alexander  Schreiner 
at  the  organ.  We  shall  begin  these 
services  by  the  Combined  Scandinavian 
Choirs  singing,  "Arise,  O  Glorious 
Zion." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  President  Levern  M.  Hansen  of  the 
San  Bernardino  Stake. 

Singing:  "Arise,  O  Glorious  Zion." 

The  Combined  Choirs  sang  the  hymn, 
"Arise,  O  Glorious  Zion." 

Elder  Levern  M.  Hansen,  president 
of  the  San  Bernardino  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Combined  Scandinavian  Choirs 
will  now  favor  us  with  "Come,  Dearest 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Lord."  After  the  singing,  Elder  Joseph 
Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  will 
read  the  changes  in  ward,  stake,  and 
branch  organizations  since  April  Con- 
ference, 1956,  and  the  obituaries  of  the 
Church. 


Singing  by  the  Combined  Choirs, 
"Come,  Dearest  Lord." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  read  the  following  report: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE 
APRIL  CONFERENCE,  1956 

TEMPLE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Octave  W.  Ursenbach,  president  of 
the  Alberta  Temple,  to  succeed  Willard 
L.  Smith. 

MISSION  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 
Lorin  N.  Pace,  president  of  the  Argen- 
tine Mission,  to  succeed  Lee  B.  Valen- 
tine. 

Reuel  E.  Christensen,  president  of  the 
Great  Lakes  Mission,  to  succeed  Lorin 
L.  Richards. 

Rulon  J.  Sperry,  president  of  the 
Netherlands  Mission,  to  succeed  Dono- 
van H.  Van  Dam. 

J.  Leonard  Love,  president  of  the 
Northern  California  Mission,  to  succeed 
Thomas  W.  Gardner. 

Charles  I.  Sampson,  president  of  the 
Samoan  Mission,  to  succeed  Howard  B. 
Stone. 

Glen  G.  Fisher,  president  of  the  South 
African  Mission,  to  succeed  LeRoy  Dun- 
can. 

Harry  T.  Oscarson,  president  of  the 
Swedish  Mission,  to  succeed  Eben  R. 
T.  Blomquist. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 
Burbank  Stake  organized  September 
16,  1956  by  division  of  San  Fernando 
Stake. 

Flagstaff  Stake  organized  September 
23,  1956  by  division  of  Snowflake  Stake 
and  the  California  Mission. 

Hayward  Stake  organized  August  26, 
1956  by  division  of  Oakland  Stake. 

Lake  Mead  Stake  organized  August 
19,  1956  by  division  of  Las  Vegas  Stake. 

Oakland-Berkeley  Stake  organized  Au- 
gust 26,  1956  by  consolidation  of  Oak- 
land and  Berkeley  Stakes. 


CHANGES  IN  WARDS  AND  STAKES 


37 


Reseda  Stake  organized  September  16, 
1956  by  division  of  San  Fernando  Stake. 

Spanish  Fork  Stake  organized  Septem- 
ber 30,  1956  by  division  of  Nebo  and 
Palmyra  Stake. 

Walnut  Creek  Stake  organized  August 
26,  1956  by  division  of  Berkeley  Stake. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 
James  David  Pratt,  president  of  Bur- 
bank  Stake. 

Wilburn  C.  West,  president  of  Emi- 
gration Stake,  to  succeed  Thomas  W. 
Muir. 

Burton  R.  Smith,  president  of  Flag- 
staff Stake. 

Eugene  C.  Ludwig,  president  of  Grant 
Stake,  to  succeed  Oscar  J.  Harline. 

Milton  P.  Ream,  president  of  Hay- 
ward  Stake. 

David  Samuel  Brown,  president  of 
Juarez  Stake,  to  succeed  Irvin  B.  Romney. 

James  I.  Gibson,  president  of  Lake 
Mead  Stake. 

Joseph  R.  Ison,  president  of  Nampa 
Stake,  to  succeed  Leon  H.  Swenson. 

Archibald  J.  Anderson,  president  of 
North  Sanpete  Stake,  to  succeed  William 
C.  Olsen. 

Leslie  O.  Stone,  president  of  Oakland- 
Berkeley  Stake. 

James  Austin  Cope,  Jr.,  president  of 
Palmyra  Stake,  to  succeed  J.  Angus 
Christensen. 

Hugh  C.  Smith,  president  of  Reseda 
Stake. 

Ezra  John  Nixon,  president  of  Roose- 
velt Stake,  to  succeed  Hollis  G.  Hul- 
linger. 

Don  Carlos  Brown,  Jr.,  president  of 
San  Fernando  Stake,  to  succeed  Hugh 
C.  Smith. 

J.  Elliott  Cameron,  president  of  South 
Sanpete  Stake,  to  succeed  Reuel  E. 
Christensen. 

Joseph  Young  Toronto,  president  of 
Spanish  Fork  Stake. 

A.  Hamer  Reiser,  president  of  Sugar 
House  Stake,  to  succeed  Harry  T.  Oscar- 
son. 

Boyd  L.  Fugal,  president  of  Timp- 
anogos  Stake,  to  succeed  Merrill  N. 
Warnick. 

William  B.  Wallis,  president  of 
Uintah  Stake,  to  succeed  Archie  John- 
son. 

Wilford  W.  Kirton,  Jr.,  president  of 
University  Stake,  to  succeed  J.  Quayle 
Ward. 


Emery  R.  Ranker,  president  of  Wal- 
nut Creek  Stake. 

Nicholas  J.  Teerlink,  president  of 
Wells  Stake  to  succeed  Fred  W.  Sch- 
wendiman. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Mountain  Home  Ward,  Boise  Stake, 
formerly  Mountain  Home  Branch. 

Bountiful  Twelfth  Ward,  Bountiful 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Bountiful 
Fifth  Ward. 

Butte  West  Ward,  Butte  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Butte  Ward. 

Portland  Eighth  Ward,  Columbia 
River  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Portland  Sixth  Ward. 

Cottonwood  Fourth  Ward,  Cotton- 
wood Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Cot- 
tonwood Second  Ward. 

Azusa  Ward,  Covina  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Glendora  Ward.  Covina 
Second  Ward,  Covina  Stake,  formed  by 
division  of  Covina  Ward. 

Dallas  Second  Ward,  Dallas  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Dallas  Ward. 

East  Mill  Creek  Fourth  and  Fifth 
Wards,  East  Mill  Creek  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Evergreen  Ward. 

Provo  Nineteenth  Ward,  East  Provo 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Provo 
Ninth  Ward  and  a  realignment  of  the 
boundaries  of  the  Provo  Eighth,  Twelfth, 
Thirteenth,  and  Fifteenth  Wards. 

Edgemont  Third  Ward,  East  Sharon 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Edgemont 
Second  Ward. 

Prescott  Ward,  Flagstaff  Stake,  form- 
erly a  branch  in  the  California  Mission. 
Verde  Valley  Ward,  Flagstaff  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  California 
Mission. 

Verdugo  Hills  Ward,  Glendale  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  La  Canada  Ward. 

Makiki  Ward,  Honolulu  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Auwaiolimu  Ward. 

Springville  Tenth  Ward,  Kolob 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Springville 
Fourth,  Fifth,  and  Seventh  Wards. 
Springville  Eleventh  Ward,  Kolob 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Springville 
Fifth  and  Sixth  Wards.  Springville 
Twelfth  Ward,  Kolob  Stake,  formed  by 
division  of  Springville  First  and  Second 
Wards. 

Lynwood  Second  Ward,  Long  Beach 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Lynwood 
Ward. 


38 

Saturday,  October  6 

Monument  Park  Tenth  Ward,  Monu- 
ment Park  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  Monument  Park  Fifth  and  Sixth 
Wards. 

Sandy  Sixth  Ward,  Mt.  Jordan  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Sandy  First  Ward. 

Pocatello  Twenty-Third  Ward,  North 
Pocatello  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Pocatello  Thirteenth  and  Seventeenth 
Wards.  Pocatello  Twenty-Fourth  Ward, 
North  Pocatello  Stake,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  Pocatello  Eighth  and  Fifteenth 
Wards. 

El  Camino  Ward,  North  Sacramento 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Carmichael 
Ward. 

Ontario  Second  Ward,  Nyssa  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Ontario  Ward. 

Hayward  Second  Ward,  Oakland 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Hayward 
Ward. 

Garden  Grove  Second  Ward,  Orange 
County  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Gar- 
den Grove  Ward.  Orange  Ward,  Orange 
County  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Santa  Ana  Ward.  Westminister  Ward, 
Orange  County  Stake,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  Garden  Grove  Ward. 

Orem  Tenth  Ward,  Orem  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Orem  First  Ward. 

Salem  Second  Ward,  Palmyra  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Salem  Ward. 
Spanish  Fork  Eighth  Ward,  Palmyra 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Spanish 
Fork  Fifth  Ward. 

Palo  Alto  Second  Ward,  Palo  Alto 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Palo  Alto 
Ward. 

Phoenix  Sixteenth  Ward,  Phoenix 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Phoenix 
Eighth  and  Tenth  Wards. 

Hillsboro  Ward,  Portland  Stake, 
formerly  Hillsboro  Branch.  McMinn- 
ville  Ward,  Portland  Stake,  formerly 
McMinnville  Branch.  West  Hills  Ward, 
Portland  Stake,  formerly  Beaverton 
Branch. 

Washington  Terrace  Fifth  Ward, 
Riverdale  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Washington  Terrace  Second  Ward. 

Yucaipa  Ward,  San  Bernardino  Stake, 
formerly  Yucaipa  Branch. 

Reseda  Second  Ward,  San  Fernando 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Reseda 
Ward.  San  Fernando  Second  Ward, 
San  Fernando  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  San  Fernando  Ward. 

Bay    Ward,    San    Francisco  Stake, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

formed  by  division  of  San  Francisco 
Ward. 

Paso  Robles  Ward,  Santa  Barbara 
Stake,  formerly  Paso  Robles  Branch. 

Seattle  Ninth  Ward,  Seattle  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Seattle  Sixth 
Ward. 

Valley  View  Third  Ward,  Wilford 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Valley  View 
Second  Ward. 

Santa  Clara  Ward,  Williamette  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Eugene  Ward. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Burbank,  North  Hollywood,  North 
Hollywood  Second,  and  Studio  City 
Wards,  Burbank  Stake,  formerly  of  San 
Fernando  Stake. 

Sunset  Ward,  Burbank  Stake,  former- 
ly of  Glendale  Stake. 

Flagstaff  and  Winslow  Wards,  Flag- 
staff Stake,  formerly  of  Snowflake  Stake. 

Prescott  and  Verde  Valley  Wards, 
Bagdad,  Chino  Valley  and  Williams 
Branches,  Flagstaff  Stake,  formerly  of  the 
California  Mission. 

Castro  Valley,  Centerville,  Hayward, 
Hayward  Second,  Oakland  Second,  San 
Leandro,  and  San  Lorenzo  Wards,  Liver- 
more  Branch,  Hayward  Stake,  formerly 
of  Oakland  Stake. 

Boulder  City,  Henderson,  Henderson 
Second  and  Third,  and  Kingman  Wards, 
Lake  Mead  Stake,  formerly  of  Las  Vegas 
Stake. 

Needles  Branch,  Lake  Mead  Stake, 
formerly  of  the  California  Mission. 

Berkeley  First,  Second,  Third,  East 
Richmond,  and  Richmond  Wards,  Oak- 
land-Berkeley Stake,  formerly  of  Berke- 
ley Stake. 

Alameda,  Oakland,  Oakland  Third, 
Fourth,  and  Fifth  Wards,  Oakland- 
Berkeley  Stake,  formerly  of  Oakland 
Stake. 

Benjamin  Ward,  Palmyra  Stake, 
formerly  of  Nebo  Stake. 

Canoga  Park,  Encino,  Granada  Hills, 
Reseda,  Reseda  Second,  Woodland  Hills, 
and  Simi  Branch,  Reseda  Stake,  form- 
erly of  San  Fernando  Stake. 

Salem,  Salem  Second,  Spanish  Fork 
First,  Second,  Fifth,  and  Eighth  Wards, 
Birdseye  and  Thistle  Branches,  Spanish 
Fork  Stake,  formerly  of  Palmyra  Stake. 

Concord,  Concord  Second,  Martinez, 
Pleasant  Hill,  Pittsburg,  Rodeo,  and 


CHANGES  IN  WA 

Walnut  Creek  Wards,  Orinda  Branch, 
Walnut  Creek  Stake,  formerly  of  Berke- 
ley Stake. 

WARD  AND  BRANCH  NAME 
CHANGED 

Burbank  2nd  Ward,  Burbank  Stake, 
formerly  Sunset  Ward. 

Butte  East  Ward,  Butte  Stake,  form- 
erly Butte  Ward. 

West  Hills  Ward,  Portland  Stake, 
formerly  Beaverton  Branch. 

Rexburg  Seventh  Ward,  Rexburg 
Stake,  formerly  Burton-Independence 
Ward. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Deer  Lodge  Branch,  Butte  Stake 
formed  by  division  of  Anaconda  Ward. 

Marshall  Branch,  Dallas  Stake  formed 
by  division  of  Longview  Ward. 

Bagdad  Branch,  Flagstaff  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  California 
Mission.  Chino  Valley  Branch,  Flag- 
staff Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the 
California  Mission.  Williams  Branch, 
Flagstaff  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in 
the  California  Mission. 

Mariposa  Branch,  Fresno  Stake  formed 
by  division  of  Merced  Ward. 

Montello  Branch,  Humboldt  Stake, 
formerly  dependent  on  Wells  Ward. 

Needles  Branch,  Lake  Mead  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  California  Mis- 
sion. 

Coaldale  Branch,  Lethbridge  Stake, 
formerly  dependent  on  Lethbridge  Sec- 
ond Ward. 

Ft.  McDowell  Branch,  Maricopa  Stake, 
formerly  dependent  on  Pap  ago  Ward. 

Chino  Branch,  Mt.  Rubidoux  Stake 
formed  by  division  of  Pomona  Second 
and  Ontario  Wards. 

Lincoln  Branch,  North  Sacramento 
Stake  formed  by  division  of  Roseville 
and  Yuba  City  Second  Wards. 

Lovelock  Branch,  Reno  Stake  formed 
by  division  of  Sparks  East  Ward.  West- 
wood  Branch,  Reno  Stake  formerly 
Westwood  Ward. 

Columbia  Basin  Branch,  Richland 
Stake  formed  by  division  of  Pasco  Ward. 

Cobalt  Branch,  Salmon  River  Stake 
formed  by  division  of  Salmon  Second 
Ward.     Pahsimeroi    Branch,  Salmon 


DS  AND  STAKES  39 

River  Stake,  formerly  dependent  on 
Challis  Ward. 

Intermountain  School  Branch,  South 
Box  Elder  Stake  formed  by  division  of 
Brigham  Sixth  Ward. 

Agua  Prieta  Branch,  Southern  Arizona 
Stake  formed  by  division  of  Douglas 
Ward.  Cananea  Branch,  Southern  Ari- 
zona Stake  formed  by  division  of  Bisbee 
Ward.  Fry  Branch,  Southern  Arizona 
Stake  formed  by  division  of  St.  David 
Ward. 

Priest  River  Branch,  Spokane  Stake, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Northwestern 
States  Mission. 

Pilot  Rock  Branch,  Union  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Pendleton  Ward. 

STAKE  DISCONTINUED 

Berkeley  Stake,  consolidated  with  Oak- 
land Stake. 

WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Lago  Ward,  Bannock  Stake,  member- 
ship transferred  to  Williams  Ward. 

Shady  Cove  Branch,  Klamath  Stake 
now  dependent  on  Medford  Ward. 

Granger  Branch,  Lyman  Stake,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Green  River  First 
Ward. 

Nounan  Ward,  Montpelier  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  Georgetown 
Ward. 

Lebanon  Branch,  Mt.  Graham  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  Layton  Sec- 
ond Ward. 

Bennett  Ward,  Roosevelt  Stake,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Whiterocks  Ward. 
Moffatt  Ward,  Roosevelt  Stake,  member- 
ship transferred  to  Ballard  Ward. 

Junction  City  Branch,  Willamette 
Stake,  membership  transferred  to  Santa 
Clara  Ward. 

Kline  Branch,  Young  Stake,  member- 
ship transferred  to  Redmesa  Ward. 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 

Edward  J.  Wood,  first  president  of 
Alberta  Temple,  President  of  Alberta 
Stake  for  39  years,  and  patriarch. 

William  M.  Waddoups,  first  president 
of  Hawaiian  Temple,  former  president 
of  Hawaiian  and  Samoan  Missions. 

Louise  Bush  Parry,  wife  of  President 
Frank  D.  Parry  of  the  Uruguayan  Mis- 
sion. 


40 

Saturday,  October  6 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  has  just  read  the  changes 
in  ward  and  stake  organizations,  and 
some  obituaries  of  the  Church,  since 
last  April.    The  reading  will  give  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Church  a  general  idea  of  the  progress 
of  the  Church  during  the  last  six 
months. 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  will  be 
our  first  speaker  this  morning.  He  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  George  Q.  Morris. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


I shall  be  deeply  grateful,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  if  I  may  have  your 
faith  and  prayers  and  the  assistance 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  in  an  effort  to  con- 
tinue the  lofty  themes,  the  vital  advice 
and  counsel  which  have  been  given  by 
my  brethren  during  the  preceding  ses- 
sions of  this  conference.  I  greet  my 
brethren  and  sisters  with  love  and  fel- 
lowship, and  I  extend  also  to  our  friends 
who  listen  in  to  the  proceedings  my 
appreciation  of  their  interest,  and  my 
concern  for  their  good  in  the  considera- 
tion of  the  great  principles  of  life  and 
salvation. 

As  we  meet  in  successive  general  con- 
ferences of  the  Church,  our  thoughts 
are  repeatedly  directed  to  the  funda- 
mental principles  and  purposes  of  the 
mighty  cause  which  we  have  the  honor 
to  represent.  It  is  well  that  it  is  so,  and 
it  is  fervently  hoped  that  we  shall 
never  become  so  absorbed  and  en- 
meshed in  the  mass  of  detail  relating 
to  organization  and  procedure  as  to 
obscure  even  for  a  moment  the  true 
purpose  of  our  establishment  in  the 
earth. 

Within  the  past  few  weeks,  in  order 
to  meet  the  requirements  of  a  distant 
foreign  country  for  the  Church  to  hold 
property  and  otherwise  carry  forward 
its  activities  within  that  country,  the 
First  Presidency  has  caused  to  be  pre- 
pared and  submitted  to  the  governing 
authority  of  the  foreign  country  a  state- 
ment of  beliefs  and  objectives  of  the 
Church.  To  cover  the  principal  be- 
liefs of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  we  submitted  the 
Articles  of  Faith  issued  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  which  for  a  period  of 
more  than  a  hundred  years  have  been 
distributed  throughout  the  world.  I 


would  not  impose  on  the  patience  of  an 
audience  entirely  composed  of  members 
of  the  Church  to  repeat  these  articles 
so  well  known  to  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  but  being  convinced  that  many 
thousands  of  our  friends  not  of  the 
Church  listen  to  these  proceedings,  I 
am  going  to  ask  you  to  indulge  me  as 
I  present  them: 

1.  We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  in  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost. 

2.  We  believe  that  men  will  be  pun- 
ished for  their  own  sins,  and  not  for 
Adam's  transgression. 

3.  We  believe  that  through  the 
Atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may 
be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

4.  We  believe  that  the  first  principles 
and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are:  first, 
Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  second, 
Repentance;  third,  Baptism  by  immer- 
sion for  the  remission  of  sins;  fourth, 
Laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

5.  We  believe  that  a  man  must  be 
called  of  God,  by  prophecy,  and  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands,  by  those  who  are 
in  authority  to  preach  the  Gospel  and 
administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof. 

6.  We  believe  in  the  same  organiza- 
tion that  existed  in  the  Primitive 
Church,  viz.,  apostles,  prophets,  pastors, 
teachers,  evangelists,  etc. 

7.  We  believe  in  the  gift  of  tongues, 
prophecy,  revelation,  visions,  healing, 
interpretation  of  tongues,  etc. 

8.  We  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the 
word  of  God  as  far  as  it  is  translated 
correctly;  we  also  believe  the  Book  of 
Mormon  to  be  the  word  of  God. 

9.  We  believe  all  that  God  has  re- 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


41 


vealed,  all  that  He  does  now  reveal,  and 
we  believe  that  He  will  yet  reveal  many 
great  and  important  things  pertaining 
to  the  Kingdom  of  God. 

10.  We  believe  in  the  literal  gathering 
of  Israel  and  in  the  restoration  of  the 
Ten  Tribes;  that  Zion  will  be  built  upon 
this  [the  American]  continent;  that 
Christ  will  reign  personally  upon  the 
earth;  and,  that  the  earth  will  be  re- 
newed and  receive  its  paradisiacal  glory. 

11.  We  claim  the  privilege  of  wor- 
shiping Almighty  God  according  to  the 
dictates  of  our  own  conscience,  and 
allow  all  men  the  same  privilege,  let 
them  worship  how,  where,  or  what  they 
may. 

12.  We  believe  in  being  subject  to 
kings,  presidents,  rulers,  and  magis- 
trates, in  obeying,  honoring,  and  sus- 
taining the  law. 

13.  We  believe  in  being  honest,  true, 
chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  do- 
ing good  to  all  men;  indeed,  we  may 
say  that  we  follow  the  admonition  of 
Paul — We  believe  all  things,  we  hope 
all  things,  we  have  endured  many 
things,  and  hope  to  be  able  to  endure 
all  things.  If  there  is  anything  virtu- 
ous, lovely,  or  of  good  report  or  praise- 
worthy, we  seek  after  these  things. — 
Joseph  Smith. 

I  shall  not  comment  generally  on  the 
Articles  of  Faith.  They  speak  for  them- 
selves, and  we  trust  they  may  prove 
acceptable  to  the  government  to  which 
we  submitted  them  as  a  statement  of  our 
principal  beliefs. 

In  addition  to  the  requirement  of  a 
statement  of  beliefs  and  doctrines,  we 
were  asked  to  set  forth  our  purposes  and 
objectives  as  a  Church.  The  following 
is  a  brief  statement  of  objectives  which 
was  sent.   I  quote: 

"The  objectives  of  the  Church  are  to 
bear  witness  to  the  divinity  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ;  to  teach  all  men  the  prin- 
ciples of  his  Gospel;  and  to  convert  and 
persuade  them  to  follow  in  his  ways 
and  keep  the  commandments  of  God, 
that  they  may  thus  advance  the  King- 
dom of  God  in  the  earth  to  bring 
brotherhood  and  peace  to  men  and  na- 
tions, and  earn  exaltation  for  them- 
selves. 

"To  achieve  this  objective  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
builds  and  maintains  churches,  tem- 


ples, educational  institutions  for  all 
ages,  recreational  buildings  and  facili- 
ties, and  projects  designed  to  teach  and 
encourage  vocational  and  industrial 
preparation  for  self-reliant  living.  It 
teaches  loyalty  to  country  and  fosters 
good  citizenship  in  all  communities 
where  it  is  established." 

The  statement  submitted  was  neces- 
sarily brief.  May  I  amplify  some  por- 
tions of  it? 

How  and  to  what  extent  are  we  bear- 
ing witness  to  the  divinity  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ?  From  the  latest  figures 
available  I  give  you  the  following:  We 
are  at  present  maintaining  about  five 
thousand  missionaries  in  the  mission 
fields  of  the  Church,  which  are  estab- 
lished in  nearly  all  countries  of  the 
world  where  the  laws  and  practices  of 
the  people  will  permit  their  establish- 
ment. The  average  cost  for  each  mis- 
sionary a  month  is  $58.96,  to  cover  his 
living  and  maintenance  in  the  mission 
field.  The  total  monthly  cost  for  our 
missionary  force  exceeds  $290,000.00, 
borne  chiefly  by  parents  of  the  mission- 
aries, the  missionaries  themselves,  quo- 
rums, and  other  generous  persons  who 
contribute  to  the  missionary  fund.  This 
vast  sum  of  money,  amounting  to  more 
than  $3,400,000.00  a  year,  is  spent  in  the 
countries  where  the  missionaries  labor, 
and  thus  contributes,  substantially  in 
some  instances,  to  the  national  economy 
of  these  countries. 

Our  missionaries  do  not  live  "off'  the 
peoples  in  the  countries  where  they  are 
sent.  They  bring  in  rather  than  take 
from  the  communities  where  they  serve. 
In  addition  to  the  five  thousand  mis- 
sionaries who  serve  in  these  missions 
which  we  call  foreign,  there  are  6,429 
stake  missionaries,  who  do  not  leave 
their  homes,  but  perform  missionary 
service  among  neighbors  and  friends  not 
of  the  Church  in  the  communities 
where  they  live.  They  give  their  service 
without  compensation,  as  do  all  mis- 
sionaries of  the  Church. 

It  will  be  interesting  to  members  of 
the  Church  to  know  that  for  the  first 
eight  months  of  the  year  1956  there 
were  9,910  convert  baptisms  in  the  for- 
eign missions,  and  5,549  in  the  stake 
missions,  making  a  total  of  15,459,  a 
sufficient  number,  if  concentrated,  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


42 

Saturday,  October  6 

make  three  or  four  new  stakes  in  the 
Church. 

The  principal  duty  and  the  first  obli- 
gation resting  upon  all  of  these  11,500 
missionaries  is  to  bear  witness  of  the 
divinity  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  They 
are  sent  out  into  the  world  as  ambas- 
sadors of  Jesus  Christ,  and  they  are 
taught  from  the  beginning  that  they 
cannot  effectively  represent  and  serve 
him  without  a  firm  personal  testimony 
as  to  his  divinity.  If  they  live  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel,  they  never  lose  their 
testimonies,  and  they  are  always  able, 
under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
to  bear  testimony  with  such  conviction 
as  to  arrest  the  attention  of  God-fear- 
ing people.  This  bearing  of  sincere 
testimony  serves  as  a  persuading  and 
convincing  influence  to  touch  the  lives 
of  many  long  before  the  immature  mis- 
sionary has  been  able  fully  to  absorb 
and  master  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
in  the  teaching  process. 

How  essential  is  this  bearing  of  testi- 
mony to  the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ?  Why,  it  is  the  first  essential 
credential  of  a  Christian.  Jesus  himself 
set  the  example,  when,  in  justifying 
himself  before  the  Jews,  he  said:  "I  am 
one  that  bear  witness  of  myself,  and  the 
Father  that  sent  me  beareth  witness  of 
me."  (John  8:18.)  And  from  all  we  can 
learn  from  scripture,  we  must  conclude 
that  there  is  but  one  indispensable  fact 
which  lies  at  the  basis  of  the  whole 
Christian  doctrine  to  which  witness 
must  be  borne,  and  that  is  that  Jesus 
Christ  was  the  Son  of  God  and  sent  by 
him  to  perform  his  mission  in  the  world. 
How  can  anyone  professing  Christianity 
satisfy  a  Christian  conscience  without 
that  testimony  and  that  witness?  Why 
are  men  reluctant  so  to  commit  them- 
selves? Some  may  entertain  conscien- 
tious doubts  as  to  the  divine  nature  of 
the  Christ.  I  am  sure  they  would  do 
well  humbly  and  open-mindedly  to  seek 
more  knowledge  about  him.  Many  more, 
I  fear,  are  in  the  category  suggested  by 
Paul  who  are  "ashamed"  openly  to  bear 
witness  of  him.  They  seem  to  think 
that  in  some  way  it  is  belittling  to  their 
intelligence,  and  I  fear  too  that  some 
regard  an  open  confession  of  faith  as  a 
commitment  to  a  course  of  life  they  do 
not  have  the  strength  and  the  will  to 
follow. 


Second  Day 

I  regret  this  reluctance,  particularly 
of  prominent  and  influential  men,  open- 
ly to  declare  their  faith,  because  I  am 
sure  that  their  influence  is  very  con- 
siderable, particularly  in  the  lives  of  the 
young  people  who  admire  their  suc- 
cesses, their  standing  in  the  community, 
and  who  could  be  made  to  see  richer 
and  nobler  purposes  in  life  through 
the  example  and  open  statements  of 
those  they  so  much  esteem. 

I  think  I  know  the  underlying  reason 
for  this  reticence.  It  is  self-sufficiency 
resulting  from  a  lack  of  humility.  Men 
of  success  are  so  prone  to  forget  their 
dependence  on  a  beneficent  providence. 
It  seems  often  necessary  to  bring  into 
the  lives  of  the  haughty  and  proud 
calamity  and  great  deprivation.  A  rich 
man  sometimes  loses  his  possessions, 
his  cherished  wife  and  children,  even 
his  good  name,  before  he  begins  to  pray 
and  acknowledge  the  supreme  dispenser 
of  all  good  things  that  endure.  I  ap- 
peal for  more  testimony,  for  more  cour- 
age to  bear  witness,  for  more  humility 
to  acknowledge  the  goodness  of  the  Lord 
to  his  children. 

The  second  item  in  the  statement  of 
objectives  which  I  mentioned  is  "to 
teach  all  men  the  principles  of  his 
gospel;  and  to  convert  and  persuade 
them  to  follow  in  his  ways  and  keep 
the  commandments  of  God."  Many  of 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  which  our 
missionaries  and  our  people  teach  are 
set  forth  in  the  Articles  of  Faith  which 
I  have  read.  Time  will  not  permit  any 
extensive  comment  on  them.  I  wish, 
however,  to  mention  a  few  items. 

I  mention  the  eleventh  and  twelfth 
articles:  "We  claim  the  privilege  of 
worshiping  Almighty  God  according  to 
the  dictates  of  our  own  conscience,  and 
allow  all  men  the  same  privilege,  let 
them  worship  how,  where,  or  what  they 
may." 

"We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings, 
presidents,  rulers,  and  magistrates,  in 
obeying,  honoring,  and  sustaining  the 
law." 

I  am  able  to  understand  from  the 
history  of  the  times  how  much  im- 
portance the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  at- 
tached to  these  articles  in  his  day.  The 
violation  of  the  principles  by  bigoted 
and  unscrupulous  persons  entailed  in- 
finite suffering  and  persecution  to  him 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


43 


and  his  people.  I  question  if,  however, 
except  with  divine  insight,  he  could 
have  envisioned  what  the  violation  of 
these  principles  would  mean  to  the 
whole  world  a  century  or  more  after 
he  lived.  I  am  not  sufficiently  informed 
to  know  whether  other  churches  have 
any  comparable  statements  in  their  con- 
stitutions or  declarations  of  faith,  but 
the  history  of  our  times  justifies  the 
assertion  that  few,  if  any,  things  have 
contributed  more  to  the  chaotic  condi- 
tion of  the  world  than  the  violation  of 
the  cardinal  principles  set  forth  in  this 
statement  of  belief.  They  contain  the 
very  essence  of  freedom  and  liberty,  and 
they  support  the  majesty  of  the  law. 
They  are  inspired  statements,  and  with- 
in them  is  comprehended  the  only  true 
basis  on  which  permanent  peace  may  be 
established.  We  preach  and  we  prac- 
tise these  principles  all  over  the  world 
wherever  we  are  given  opportunity.  We 
proclaim  and  we  urge  them  in  defense 
of  liberty  wherever  we  go.  They  are 
part  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
as  such  we  teach  them. 

Perhaps  we  encounter  some  resistance 
in  teaching  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
because  we  have  important  aspects  of 
it  given  by  revelation  that  are  explana- 
tory and  go  beyond  the  conventional 
teaching  of  Christianity  as  our  eighth 
article  of  faith  proclaims:  "We  believe 
the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of  God  as  far 
as  it  is  translated  correctly."  We  teach 
the  Bible  as  the  history  of  God's  deal- 
ings with  man,  and  as  the  basis  of  the 
Christian  gospel,  but  we  have  additional 
explanatory  revelation  which  does  not 
contravene  the  Bible,  but  which  serves 
to  interpret  and  make  plain  many  of 
its  statements  which  are  obscure  or  in- 
complete. 

I  shall  give  to  you  one  illustration 
which  is  typical  of  others.  The  Savior 
comforted  his  disciples  at  the  time  of 
his  departure  with  that  supreme  state- 
ment of  comfort:  "In  my  Father's  house 
are  many  mansions:  if  it  were  not  so, 
I  would  have  told  you.  I  go  to  pre- 
pare a  place  for  you."  (John  14:2.) 

For  many  centuries  the  world  was 
without  an  explanation  of  the  "many 
mansions"  in  our  Father's  house.  In 
February  1832,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
wrote:  "From  sundry  revelations  which 
had  been  received,  it  was  apparent  that 


many  important  points  touching  the  sal- 
vation of  man  had  been  taken  from  the 
Bible,  or  lost  before  it  was  compiled. 
It  appeared  self-evident  from  what 
truths  were  left,  that  if  God  rewarded 
every  one  according  to  the  deeds  done 
in  the  body,  the  term  Heaven,  as  in- 
tended for  the  Saints'  eternal  home,  must 
include  more  kingdoms  than  one."  (See 
Introduction  to  D  &  C  76.) 

It  was  in  answer  to  this  query  in  the 
mind  of  the  Prophet  that  the  revelation 
which  is  sometimes  characterized  as 
"The  Vision"  came  to  him.  It  is  the 
explanation  of  the  words  of  the  Savior 
in  that  it  defines  the  mansions,  king- 
doms, and  glories  which  prevail  in 
heaven,  "my  Father's  house."  These 
kingdoms  are  designated  as  the  celestial, 
the  terrestrial,  and  the  telestial.  These 
designations  conform  with  the  declara- 
tions of  the  Apostle  Paul  in  his  first 
epistle  to  the  Corinthians,  wherein  he 
sets  forth, 

"There  is  one  glory  of  the  sun,  and 
another  glory  of  the  moon,  and  another 
glory  of  the  stars:  for  one  star  differeth 
from  another  star  in  glory."  (I  Cor. 
15:41.) 

I  wish  I  had  the  time  to  read  to  all 
our  friends  the  description  and  attri- 
butes of  these  kingdoms  and  glories  of 
the  hereafter.  Here  is  a  revelation 
which  makes  plain  to  all  men  the 
transcendent  and  enduring  benefits  de- 
rived from  striving  for  the  best.  To 
those  who  have  the  ambition,  the  cour- 
age, and  devotion  to  attain  the  highest 
station,  there  are  in  store  blessings  that 
transcend  the  comprehension  of  the 
finite  mind. 

The  Lord  loves  all  his  children,  and 
in  the  orderly  provision  he  has  made 
for  salvation  every  good  deed  is  re- 
warded, and  all  who  have  not  utterly 
destroyed  their  prospects  for  recogni- 
tion will  find  place  in  the  gradations  of 
glory  to  which  they  are  severally  en- 
titled. Here  is  universal  justice  in  law 
and  order,  tempered  with  great  mercy 
for  the  frail  and  the  weak.  The  revela- 
tion gives  us  assurance  that  the  highest 
station  or  glory  is  possible  of  attain- 
ment. In  all  our  teaching  and  persua- 
sion, our  one  all-pervading  predominant 
motive 'and  purpose  is  to  prepare  our-  - 
selves  and  our  fellow  men  for  entrance 
and  exaltation  in  the  highest  glory  he 


44 

Saturday,  October  6 

has  revealed — the  celestial  kingdom.  We 
want  the  best  for  ourselves,  and  we 
want  it  for  others,  but  we  know  we  can- 
not acquire  this  glorious  blessing  for 
others.  Everyone  must  obtain  it  for 
himself. 

Now,  how  is  entrance  into  the  celes- 
tial glory  obtained?  It  is  obtained  only 
through  compliance  with  the  ordinances 
of  the  gospel,  and  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God.  Our  missionaries 
are  not  infrequently  asked:  "Do  you 
claim  that  you  are  the  only  ones  who 
will  go  to  heaven?"  The  answer  to  this 
question  may  well  be  given  by  the  mis- 
sionary asking  of  the  inquirer,  "What 
do  you  mean  by  heaven?  If  you  mean 
by  heaven,  a  resurrection  from  the  grave 
to  immortality,  the  answer  is  no. 
Through  the  atonement  of  Christ  every- 
one will  be  resurrected.  Do  you  mean 
by  heaven  one  of  the  lesser  glories  and 
kingdoms  therein?  Then  generally  the 
answer  is  no.  We  believe  that  many, 
if  not  most,  of  the  good  men  and 
women  of  the  world  will  obtain  places 
and  recognition  in  the  lesser  kingdoms 
of  heaven.  But  if  you  mean  by  going 
to  heaven,  gaining  exaltation  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  our  Father,  where 
God  and  Christ  dwell,  then  the  answer 
must  be  yes.  No  man  can  attain  the 
highest  station  without  compliance 
with  the  higher  laws  and  ordinances, 
which  may  be  administered  only  in  the 
restored  Church  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  under  his  authority  and  dele- 
gated power  lodged  in  the  priesthood 
of  his  Church." 

If  there  be  any  disposed  to  criticize 
this  view  as  being  narrow  and  intoler- 
ant, we  must  bring  to  their  attention 
the  fact  that  we  did  not  formulate  the 
rules,  regulations,  and  requirements  for 
entrance  into  the  celestial  kingdom  of 
our  Father.  The  Lord  did  that,  both 
in  ancient  and  modern  revelation.  We 
seek  to  teach  men  that  these  rules  of 
eligibility,  though  seemingly  strict  and 
rigid,  are  in  fact  generous  provisions 
for  the  happiness  of  the  Father's  chil- 
dren here  and  hereafter.  If  any  of  the 
requirements  seem  to  circumscribe  the 
personal  liberty  of  individuals,  it  is  be- 
cause these  so-called  personal  liberties 
in  wisdom  are  not  in  the  end  good  for 
the  individual  or  communities.  Every 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

commandment  the  Lord  has  given  is  for 
the  blessing  and  good  of  mankind. 

I  appeal,  my  fellow  members  of  the 
Church,  and  to  all  men,  so  to  regard 
them.  While  many  are  in  the  form  of 
injunctions  of  restraint,  there  is  in  the 
keeping  of  every  commandment  a  posi- 
tive element  of  improvement  of  life 
through  self-mastery  and  the  subordina- 
tion of  the  material  to  the  spiritual. 

So  our  mission  is  to  bear  witness  of 
the  divinity  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  teach  his  restored  gospel  in  all  its 
completeness.  The  Lord  has  been  good 
to  us.  He  has  caused  that  provision 
be  made  so  that  there  are  available  to 
us  all  the  facilities  essential  to  realize 
our  great  purposes.  He  has  blessed  the 
Church  with  the  devotion  of  faithful 
members  scarcely  to  be  equaled  in  any 
movement  of  which  we  have  record. 
They  are  generous  in  giving,  they  are 
responsive  to  calls  to  duty,  and  their 
lives  exemplify  the  loving  principles  by 
which  they  should  live. 

True,  not  all  are  faithful.  Some  fall 
by  the  wayside  in  weakness,  to  whom  we 
always  hold  out  the  hopeful  doctrine 
of  repentance.  It  is  a  glorious  feeling, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  place 
with  the  faithful,  to  feel  the  warm, 
generous  support  of  true  brethren  and 
sisters  in  the  Church  of  Christ.  I  have 
long  been  the  recipient  of  his  blessings, 
and  I  humbly  make  this  acknowledg- 
ment and  give  thanks  for  membership 
in  his  Church  and  the  privilege  of 
serving  him,  for  health  to  carry  on,  for 
the  confidence  and  love  of  my  associates, 
and  for  the  privilege  of  living  in  the 
society  of  the  Saints  of  God. 

I  bear  my  humble  witness  that  God 
lives;  that  Jesus  Christ  was  his  Only 
Begotten  Son  in  the  flesh;  that  the 
biblical  account  of  his  birth  and  life  is 
true  and  not  fictitious;  that  however 
much  we  may  proclaim  our  admira- 
tion of  his  attributes  and  his  teachings, 
that  above  all  his  mission  was  divine; 
that  we  cannot  truly  worship  him  with- 
out recognition  of  his  sovereignty  and 
his  lordship.  I  am  happy  to  kneel  at 
the  throne  of  his  power  and  give  to 
him  my  allegiance  and  feeble  effort  for 
the  establishment  of  his  kingdom  in  the 
earth. 

I  bear  witness  that  Joseph  Smith  was 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


45 


his  prophet,  chosen  to  bring  the  com- 
plete gospel  to  the  earth  in  the  Dis- 
pensation of  the  Fulness  of  Times;  that 
he  accomplished  his  mission;  and  that 
all  men  today  are  the  beneficiaries  of 
his  inestimable  contributions. 

I  bear  witness  that  the  holy  priest- 
hood has  been  restored  to  and  continues 
in  the  Church  of  Christ;  that  that  holy 
priesthood  and  power  is  here  in  the 
earth  today  in  the  year  1956,  reposed  in 
thousands  of  good  men,  servants  of  the 
Lord,  with  President  David  O.  McKay 
appointed,  sustained,  and  approved  of 
the  Lord,  standing  at  the  head,  all  to 
the  end  that  the  kingdom  of  our  Father 


may  be  established  and  advanced  in 
the  earth.  Christ  will  come  again. 
Our  mission  is  to  prepare  the  kingdom 
for  his  coming. 

The  Lord  help  us  all  to  be  devoted 
to  that  exalted  undertaking  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  is  the  one  who  delivered 
that  fine  sermon  just  now.  We  shall 
now  hear  from  Elder  George  Q.  Morris 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  He  will 
be  followed  by  the  Congregation  singing, 
"High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am 
entirely  dependent  upon  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  to  direct  me,  and  pray 
that  the  same  sweet  spirit  that  has  pre- 
vailed will  continue  with  us  to  lead  me 
to  say  that  which  I  should  say.  I  am 
very  thankful  to  the  Lord  that  this  his 
Church  is  built  on  the  rock  of  revelation, 
so  that  we  are  not  turned  about  in  all 
directions  by  all  kinds  of  opinions  and 
doctrines.  But  as  this  is  our  blessing, 
we  have  also  an  obligation  to  know  the 
truth,  and  live  the  truth,  and  speak  the 
truth.  What  a  supreme  blessing  is  truth 
in  this  distraught  world. 

At  a  meeting  I  recently  attended  where 
reference  was  made  to  a  revelation  con- 
cerning the  origin  and  nature  of  man 
and  the  creation  of  the  world,  a  young 
man  came  to  me — a  fine  young  faithful 
Latter-day  Saint — and  said  he  was  so 
discouraged  and  depressed  by  the  teach- 
ings he  was  receiving  in  college  that 
he  worried  about  it,  and  about  how  he 
could  pass  his  examinations  because  he 
could  not  accept  these  teachings.  Of 
course  I  could  only  tell  him  that  he 
would  have  to  hold  to  the  truth  no 
matter  what  the  situation  was.  That  is 
an  obligation  that  we  do  have  as  a 
people.  Who  else  has  the  revelations 
of  God?  What  other  church  in  the 
world  is  based  upon  these  revelations? 
Having  them,  we  must  be  true  to  them. 

As  the  Lord  built  his  Church  upon 
the  rock  of  revelation  so  that  it  would 


endure,  I  think  we  ourselves  as  indi- 
viduals must  stand  on  this  same  rock 
of  revelation  in  our  conduct,  our  think- 
ing, and  our  lives,  that  we  can  endure; 
otherwise  we  will  fall. 

I  hope  this  young  man  can  hold  to 
that  principle,  and  I  am  concerned  for 
all  of  our  young  people  as  they  go  into 
the  field  of  higher  education  and  meet 
all  the  ideas  that  are  so  prevalent,  which 
are  in  sharp  conflict  with  the  revelations 
of  God  that  we  know  to  be  true.  I 
suppose  he  had  been  taught  something 
about  the  origin  of  man  according  to 
the  theory  of  organic  evolution.  I  pre- 
sume he  might  have  been  told  what  I 
remember  reading  in  some  man's  writ- 
ings, that  we  would  have  to  look  for 
our  origin  in  some  minute  life  in  the 
ocean,  perhaps,  or  in  some  amoebalike 
organism — the  simplest  form  of  life. 
That,  he  said,  was  man's  beginning. 

But  we  know  better  than  that.  The 
Lord  says  we  were  in  the  beginning 
with  him. 

Ye  were  also  in  the  beginning  with  the 
Father;  that  which  is  Spirit,  even  the  Spirit 
of  truth; 

Man  was  also  in  the  beginning  with  God. 
Intelligence,  or  the  light  of  truth,  was  not 
created  or  made,  neither  indeed  can  be. 
(D  &  C  93:23,  29.) 

We  know  beyond  all  doubt  that  we 
existed  with  God  in  the  eternities  and 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

that  we  existed  with  him  in  the  heavens 
as  his  sons  and  daughters. 

And  he  called  upon  our  father  Adam 
by  his  own  voice,  saying:  I  am  God:  I 
made  the  world,  and  men  before  they  were 
in  the  flesh.  (Moses  6:51.) 

Now,  no  matter  what  men  may  think, 
no  matter  what  their  theories  may  be, 
we  need  not  be  disturbed  in  the  least 
because  we  know  the  truth;  I  hope  our 
children  can  be  assured  by  their  parents 
that  they  need  not  be  disturbed  because 
these  revelations  are  true.  Man  did  not 
come  from  the  bottom  of  the  ocean,  but 
from  heaven,  and  God  is  his  Father. 
The  Savior  said  that  so  beautifully  to 
Mary: 

...  go  to  my  brethren,  and  say  unto 
them,  I  ascend  unto  my  Father,  and  your 
Father;  and  to  my  God,  and  your  God. 
(John  20:17.) 

The  Son  came  to  the  world  to  redeem 
it,  to  reveal  unto  us  our  Father,  and  to 
give  his  truth  to  the  world;  also  demon- 
strating his  origin  and  his  coming  into 
the  world  to  be  the  same  as  ours.  He 
said, 

I  came  forth  from  the  Father,  and  am 
come  into  the  world:  again,  I  leave  the 
world,  and  go  to  the  Father.  (Ibid.,  16:28.) 

This  is  true  of  us  all. 

In  the  spirit  world  he  was  perfect, 
the  Firstborn  of  the  Father.  Our  Father 
elevated  him  to  the  Godhead.  He  be- 
came the  Son  and  was  given  power  to 
create  man  and  the  earth.  As  declared 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  he  was  ".  . .  the 
God  of  Israel,  and  the  God  of  the  whole 
earth  "  (3  Nephi  11:14.) 

What  was  his  bodily  condition  before 
his  birth  into  the  world,  while  he  was 
the  Son  in  the  Godhead,  and  Jehovah 
to  the  Jews,  and  the  God  of  the  whole 
world?  He  was  a  spirit  dwelling  in  a 
spiritual  body  of  refined  matter  in  the 
same  form  as  our  earthly  bodies.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  told  us  that 
all  spirit  is  matter.   He  said: 

There  is  no  such  thing  as  immaterial 
matter.  All  spirit  is  matter,  but  it  is  more 
fine  or  pure,  and  can  only  be  discerned  by 
purer  eyes.  (D  &  C  131:7.) 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  then,  as  a 


Second  Day 

spirit,  had  a  spiritual  body  of  this  pure 
material.  When  he  revealed  himself 
to  the  brother  of  Jared,  he  said, 

Behold,  this  body,  which  ye  now  behold, 
is  the  body  of  my  spirit;  and  man  have  I 
created  after  the  body  of  my  spirit;  and 
even  as  I  appear  unto  thee  to  be  in  the 
spirit  will  I  appear  unto  my  people  in  the 
flesh.  (Ether  3:16.) 

We  were  all  men  and  women  in 
heaven,  just  as  we  are  men  and  women 
here.  We  were  not  hazy  shadows. 
Though  spirits,  we  had  form;  we  had 
substance.  The  Lord  said  he  had  cre- 
ated man  after  the  image  of  his  spirit 
body,  which  was  the  same  form  in 
which  he  was  to  appear  on  earth. 

.  .  .  that  which  is  spiritual  being  in  the 
likeness  of  that  which  is  temporal;  and 
that  which  is  temporal  in  the  likeness  of 
that  which  is  spiritual;  the  spirit  of  man  in 
the  likeness  of  his  person,  as  also  the  spirit 
of  the  beast,  and  every  other  creature  which 
God  has  created.  (D  &  C  77:2.) 

The  prophets  said  the  Savior  would 
come  and  take  upon  himself  a  taber- 
nacle of  flesh,  and  so  he  came  in  his 
spirit  body  and  took  from  the  earth  the 
elements  needed  to  obtain  a  tabernacle 
of  flesh  and  blood.  We  know  how  he 
did  that.  We  have  done  the  same  thing; 
and  we  came  here  in  the  same  form 
as  did  he.  As  his  spiritual  body  clothed 
itself  in  a  tabernacle  of  flesh  and  blood, 
so  has  ours. 

As  he  stood  before  Pilate  to  be  judged, 
Pilate  said,  "Behold  the  man."  When 
he  calmed  the  wind  and  the  waves,  the 
people  said,  "What  manner  of  man  is 
this,  that  the  sea  and  the  wind  obey 
him?"  So  he  was  a  man,  as  we  are  men. 
He  was  also  Deity,  because  of  his  per- 
fection, and  because  his  Father  had  by 
divine  investiture  raised  him  to  that 
position.  While  he  was  in  the  earth, 
he  was  still  he  who  had  created  the 
earth,  as  he  was  also  when  he  submitted 
to  apostate  priests  and  a  pagan  Roman 
governor  to  be  judged  and  to  be  cruci- 
fied. 

So  what  manner  of  creatures  are  we? 
His  Father  was  our  Father.  The  off- 
spring is  like  the  parent.  You  cannot 
change  that  law.  In  the  book  of  Moses, 
speaking  of  the  Father,  it  says: 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


47 


...  in  the  language  of  Adam,  Man  of 
Holiness  is  his  name,  and  the  name  of  his 
Only  Begotten  is  the  Son  of  Man,  even 
Jesus  Christ,  a  righteous  Judge,  who  shall 
come  in  the  meridian  of  time.  (Moses  6:57.) 

Now  these  are  the  truths  concerning 
ourselves.  Let  us  realize  who  we  are 
and  what  we  are  and  how  we  should 
live.  And  when  we  meet  these  teach- 
ings opposed  to  God's  word  that  come 
to  us  and  our  children,  let  us  know  what 
they  are.  They  are  nothing  but  the 
opinions  of  men.  Think  how  fantastic 
that  a  man,  who  is  a  son  of  God,  should 
deny  God  and  insist  that  he  came  from 
a  low  form  of  life  up  through  the  shapes 
of  lower  animals  to  the  image  of  God. 
How  preposterous  that  is!  But  our  con- 
cept is  based  on  the  principle  that  the 
Apostle  Paul  laid  down.  The  first  verse 
in  the  Bible  says  that  the  earth  was 
created  by  God,  and  the  first  chapter, 
that  God  created  man  in  his  own  image. 
All  through  the  scriptures  it  is  pro- 
claimed that  man  is  a  son  of  God. 

When  men  do  not  believe  the  truth, 
what  is  left  for  them  to  believe?  Noth- 
ing but  delusion  and  fallacy  and  error! 
So  Paul  said: 

.  .  .  they  received  not  the  love  of  truth, 
that  they  might  be  saved. 

And  for  this  cause  God  shall  send  them 
strong  delusion,  that  they  should  believe  a 
lie."  (II  Thess.  2:10-11.) 

When  our  children  are  told  about  the 
"missing  link"  or  the  "preshistoric  man" 
what  can  we  say?  In  the  light  of  the 
revealed  word  of  God,  what  are  we  to 
conclude?  The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  who 
created  man  and  the  earth  has,  from  the 
creation,  declared  that  we  all  originated 
in  heaven.  His  teachings  are  that  we 
were  perfectly  organized  beings  with 
spiritual  bodies  similar  in  form  to  our 
mortal  bodies,  but  of  finer  material; 
that  we  were  sons  and  daughters  of 
God  and  came  to  the  earth  in  these 
spirit  bodies  patterned  after  the  spirit 
body  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  that  we 
each  took  from  the  earth  a  body  of 
flesh  and  blood  to  tabernacle  our  spirit 
body,  as  did  he;  that  we  were  men  and 
women  with  spirit  (material)  bodies, 
in  the  same  form  as  these  we  now  have, 
long  before  this  earth  was  ever  formed; 
that  in  the  eternities  past  men  like  us 
with  bodies  of  flesh  and  blood  have 
lived  in  worlds  like  ours,  many  of  which 


have  passed  away,  and  that  others  have 
been  created  for  men  like  us  to  inhabit — 

And  worlds  without  number  have  I  cre- 
ated, .  .  . 

And  as  one  earth  shall  pass  away,  and 
the  heavens  thereof,  even  so  shall  another 
come.  .  .  . 

For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man.  (Moses  1:33,  38, 
39.) 

This  being  true,  man  did  not  originate 
here  in  spirit  or  body.  Man  in  a  body 
of  flesh  and  blood  has  lived  through  the 
eternities.  How  foolish  to  look  for  the 
origin  of  the  human  body  in  this  world 
at  this  late  time.  The  theory  that  man 
came  into  his  present  form  through  a 
process  of  evolutions  is  untrue — a  mere 
delusion.  This  being  the  case  and  so 
declared  by  the  divine  Creator  of  all 
these  worlds,  our  own  included,  it  must 
follow  that  there  never  was  a  "missing 
link"  on  the  earth.  There  never  was 
a  "prehistoric  man,"  in  the  sense  that 
he  was  part  man  and  part  something 
else.  No  such  creature  ever  existed  in 
this  or  any  other  world.  He  or  it  exists 
only  in  the  minds  of  men  who  refuse 
the  truth  and  have  a  theory  of  their 
own  that  is  utterly  false — contrary  to  the 
revealed  word  of  God.  Such  an  idea 
could  come  only  after  rejecting  God's 
word.  That  creature  which  men  visual- 
ize in  their  minds  because  of  their  false 
theory,  they  draw  in  pictures  and  they 
model  in  clay  and  say  that  such  a  thing 
once  existed  upon  the  earth.  There 
never  did  exist  such  a  creature  in  the 
earth,  or  out  of  the  earth.  God  sent 
man  as  a  perfect  being,  his  offspring 
in  his  image,  with  a  material  (spiritual) 
body  »in  the  same  form  as  we  are  now, 
to  be  born  on  the  earth,  to  obtain  a 
tabernacle  of  flesh  and  have  an  earth 
existence.  We  are  all  pre-earth  men, 
but  not  one  a  "prehistoric  man."  The 
earth  did  not  originate  man.  "The 
Man"— "the  Son  of  Man"— created  the 
earth  and  all  that  is  in  it. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  Lord  spake 
unto  Moses,  saying:  Behold,  I  reveal  unto 
you  concerning  this  heaven,  and  this  earth; 
write  the  words  which  I  speak.  I  am  the 
Beginning  and  the  End,  the  Almighty  God; 
by  mine  Only  Begotten  I  created  these 
things;  yea,  in  the  beginning  I  created  the 
heaven,  and  the  earth  upon  which  thou 
standest.  (Ibid.,  2:1.) 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

God  help  us  to  live  consistent  with 
this  great  truth.  I  bear  my  humble 
witness  that  this  is  true;  that  this  is  the 
living  Church  of  God  restored  to  the 
earth,  based  upon  revelation,  and  that 
revelation  is  operative  now  and  will 
continue  so;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  the  Living  God,  who  asso- 
ciated with  God  and  heavenly  beings 
and  was  taught  by  them  during  many 
years;  and  I  bear  witness  that  the  keys 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  the  power  for 
the  salvation  of  the  human  family, 
abides  in  the  President  of  this  Church 
today,  and  that  no  man  can  bypass  this 
Church  and  find  salvation.  No  man 
can  bypass  Joseph  Smith  and  receive 
salvation.  God  honors  his  servants.  I 
bear  this  humble  witness  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Second  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  George  Q.  Morris  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  addressed  us. 
After  the  singing  by  the  Congregation, 
"High  On  the  Mountain  Top,"  Elder 
Antoine  R.  Ivins  will  address  us. 

The  Congregation  will  sing. 


The  Combined  Choirs  and  the  con- 
gregation joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"High  On  The  Mountain  Top." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  John 
Longden. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is 
not  an  idle  hope  that  I  express 
when  I  ask  you  to  join  your  faith 
and  prayers  with  mine.  It  is  the  only 
way,  I  believe,  that  I  can  say  a  word 
to  you  today  that  may  be  helpful  and 
inspire  an  effort  to  approach  more  near- 
ly the  life  that  our  Heavenly  Father 
would  like  us  to  live. 

Before  I  talk  about  what  I  had  in 
mind,  I  would  like  to  say  to  the  singers 
today  that  I  appreciate  very  much  the 
music  which  they  have  rendered,  and 
I  have  great  interest  in  their  group  for 
two  reasons:  One  is  that  my  grandfather 
was  chosen  by  the  President  of  the 
Church  to  carry  the  gospel  to  Scandi- 
navia; another  is  that  I  discovered  in 
reading  the  genealogical  history  of  one 
line  of  my  heritage,  that  it  was  carried 
back  to  the  Norsemen  who  came  into 
England  such  a  long,  long  time  ago. 

Now  I  admit  that  this  student  in 
carrying  it  back  had  to  use  ten-league 
boots  over  some  of  the  stretches,  but  I 
hope  it  is  true  nevertheless. 

I  had  thought  that  I  would  begin 
today  by  bearing  my  testimony  to  the 
restoration  of  the  priesthood,  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church,  and  to  a  re- 
turn of  a  true  interpretation  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
President   Richards  has  done  that 


so  beautifully  that  all  I  will  ask  is  that 
you  let  me  incorporate  his  testimony  in 
mine,  because  I  believe  from  the  bottom 
of  my  heart  that  what  he  has  said  is 
true. 

Many  of  us  who  are  here  today  are 
bearers  of  the  priesthood.  We  are  all, 
or  nearly  all  of  us,  members  of  the 
Church  in  which  that  priesthood  func- 
tions for  the  development  and  well- 
being  of  people.  I  presume  we  are  all 
here  to  try  and  gain  a  little  better 
understanding  of  the  gospel  plan  and 
a  greater  enthusiasm  for  it,  a  greater 
determination  to  carry  its  teachings  into 
our  daily  lives. 

We  have  been  told  that  we  are  the 
children  of  God,  our  Heavenly  Father, 
that  we  had  a  conscious  spiritual  exist- 
ence before  we  came  here.  The  gospel 
plan  is  one  which  God  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ  developed,  which  if  proper- 
ly followed  by  the  spirits  who  come  into 
the  earth,  would  lead  them  back  not 
only  to  the  presence  of  God  but  also  to 
an  exaltation  in  his  presence,  all  of 
which  has  been  explained  to  us  today. 
The  gospel  includes  many  things  that 
we  should  do.  Some  phases  of  its  ex- 
pression are  in  the  form  of  "thou  shalt 
not"  do  this  or  that.  Others  are  in 
the  positive  form  of  "thou  shalt"  do 
this  and  that.   Of  course,  it  is  our  pur- 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


49 


pose  to  learn  what  they  are  and  properly 
interpret  them  and  integrate  them  into 
our  daily  living. 

The  first  great  commandment  that 
was  given  to  Adam  and  Eve  in  the 
Garden  of  Eden,  according  to  recorded 
history,  the  revealed  words  which  we 
have,  was  to  multiply  and  replenish  the 
earth.  In  my  recent  visits  to  the  stakes 
over  the  last  two  or  three  years,  I  have 
tried  to  keep  a  record  of  the  percentages 
of  the  people  who  were  married  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  who  were  married 
in  the  temple.  I  discovered  that  about 
fifty-five  percent  of  the  marriages  were 
celebrated  in  the  temple.  Forty-five 
percent  of  them  were  of  people  who  had 
not  the  inclination  to  go  to  the  temple 
for  that  purpose. 

I  feel  in  my  heart  that  it  was  the 
intent  of  God  that  when  marriage 
should  be  celebrated,  it  should  be  done 
with  the  vow  and  promise  that  it  would 
never  be  broken,  so  that  the  great  privi- 
leges of  exaltation  which  are  promised 
us  could  be  realized  throughout  eternity. 
It  is  an  unfortunate  thing  that  many 
of  these  marriages  are  hastily  con- 
tracted and  not  sealed  by  the  powers 
of  the  priesthood.  Consequently,  many 
of  them  break  up  and  result  in  disaster. 

Now  how  are  we  going  to  find  out 
the  things  that  we  should  do  to  make 
a  marriage  like  this  perpetual?  We 
have  to  return  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  put  its  teachings  into  prac- 
tice. Could  we  make  a  perfect  effort 
at  that,  of  course,  we  would  eventually 
attain  to  the  powers  of  God,  for  that  is 
the  promise  which  he  has  given  us. 

Our  purpose  in  coming  here  today 
is  to  learn  something  about  it  and  how, 
perhaps  better,  we  can  do  those  great 
things. 

I  would  like  to  read  to  you  a  scripture 
found  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
which  I  think  expresses  the  purpose  of 
the  gospel: 

Therefore,  sanctify  yourselves  that  your 
minds  become  single  to  God,  and  the  days 
will  come  that  you  shall  see  him;  for  he 
will  unveil  his  face  unto  you,  and  it  shall 
be  in  his  own  time,  and  in  his  own  way, 
and  according  to  his  own  will.  (D  &  C 
88:68.) 

Then,  in  another  section  we  read: 
For  you  shall  live  by  every  word  that 


proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God. 
(Ibid.,  84:44.) 

The  recorded  revelations  that  we 
have — the  modern  ones — we  find  in  the 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  but  there  are  many 
revealed  expressions  of  the  doctrine  and 
will  of  God,  our  Heavenly  Father,  in 
the  Bible,  so  we  have  the  three  sources. 
John  says  in  his  writings, 

Search  the  scriptures;  for  in  them  ye 
think  ye  have  eternal  life:  and  they  are 
they  which  testify  of  me.  (John  5:39.) 

It  is  my  firm  conviction  that  when  we 
come  to  understand  really  the  scriptures, 
we  discover  that  every  single  purpose 
therein  is  to  testify  that  Jesus  Christ 
was  to  come,  is  the  Son  of  God,  and 
was  to  work  out  a  redemption  for  us. 
He  prepared  the  plan  that  we  should 
follow.  It  is  our  purpose  to  learn  it 
and  then  to  try  to  live  by  every  word 
that  has  proceeded  from  the  mouth  of 
God. 

You  will  remember  the  first  scripture 
says, 

Therefore  sanctify  yourselves.  .  .  . 

I  met  a  member  of  the  Church  one 
time  who  said  that  salvation  does  not 
depend  upon  men's  acts  at  all,  and  he 
quoted  the  scripture,  ".  .  .  by  grace  are 
ye  saved.  .  .  . 

"Not  of  works,  lest  any  man  should 
boast."  (Eph.  2:8-9.)  This  does  not 
seem  quite  like  that,  does  it?  We  are 
saved  from  death  and  given  the  privi- 
lege of  a  resurrection  and  through  the 
grace  and  gift  of  God  we  have  the 
privilege  of  sanctifying  ourselves,  thus 
earning  an  exaltation. 

So  that  is  our  problem,  brethren  and 
sisters.  Let  us  read  the  scriptures;  let 
us  discover  in  them  the  way  of  life 
that  will  lead  us  back  to  the  kingdom 
of  God.  Let  us  put  forth  every  effort 
and  sanctify  and  purify  our  lives.  And, 
brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  be  more 
interested  in  the  effect  upon  ourselves 
than  that  which  we  think  we  observe 
sometimes  in  our  neighbors. 

There  are  many  of  the  provisions 
I  have  said  which  say,  "thou  shalt  not" 
do  this  and  that,  and  many  of  us  are 
prone  to  judge  our  neighbors,  thinking 
only  of  the  things  that  they  should 
not  do  which  we  think  they  do;  but 


50 

Saturday,  October  6 

there  is  a  positive  side  to  this  which 
far  outweighs  that,  it  seems  to  me,  as 
far  as  we  individually  are  concerned. 
We  should  be  not  interested  in  the 
failures  of  our  neighbors  but  in  their 
successes  and  in  our  own  successes  in 
coming  nearer  to  God  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

The  first  great  principle  is  love.  We 
are  to  love  God  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Then  the  next  principle  to  it  is  we 
should  love  our  neighbor  as  ourselves. 
If  we  could  just  do  that,  we  would  glory 
in  the  successes  of  our  neighbors;  and 
while  we  would  feel  bad  if  they  made 
mistakes,  we  would  not  judge  them,  en- 
tirely, on  the  mistakes  they  made,  but 
would  balance  against  them  the  efforts 
towards  righteousness  that  they  demon- 
strate. Then  if  their  righteous  conduct 
should  outweigh  the  other  side,  we 
would  be  happy,  would  we  not?  That 
is  the  way  we  would  like  people  to 
think  of  us.  That  is  the  way  we  would 
think  of  them.  We  would  extend 
mercy  to  them.  That  does  not  mean 
feeding  them  and  clothing  them;  it 
means  helping  them  to  adjust  their 
lives  to  the  will  of  God,  our  Heavenly 
Father,  and  to  give  aid  and  succor. 
Spiritual  aid  and  succor  is  more  im- 
portant than  temporal  aid  at  times.  We 
should  extend  both,  of  course,  but  most 
certainly,  if  we  love  our  neighbor,  we 
are  going  to  extend  to  him  our  spiritual 
aid  and  comfort  in  the  spirit  of  mercy. 

God  said  to  Adam  that  he  should 
cultivate  the  soil  and  live  by  the  sweat 
of  his  brow  and  that  still  is  the  re- 
sponsibility of  every  one  of  us.  How 
can  we  feel  that  we  have  completely 
done  the  will  of  God  if  we  are  not  dili- 
gent in  providing  for  ourselves  and  for 
those  who  are  dependent  upon  us? .  Is 
there  ever  a  time  in  the  life  of  a  man, 
who  is  able  to  do  so,  when  he  should 
not  provide  for  himself?  Diligence, 
then,  is  another  phase  of  this  great 
program  that  God  gave  us,  a  practical, 
everyday  program  for  everyday  living, 
which  when  properly  carried  into  effect 
has  its  spiritual  reaction  just  as  definitely 
as  anything  else,  and  the  man  who 
meets  his  obligations  to  his  fellows  is 
likewise  sanctifying  his  soul. 

The  positive  side  of  this  has  so  many 
different  headings  that  it  is  impossible 
for  me  to  try  to  deal  with  all  of  them, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

but  there  is  still  another  side  that  I 
try  never  to  forget,  and  that  is  that  to 
sanctify  one's  soul  one  should  gain  con- 
trol over  the  God-given  urges  and  pro- 
pensities of  one's  body,  and  there  are 
so  many  of  us  who  fail  in  that.  That 
is  so  often  the  cause  of  disruption  in 
marriage  relationships;  people  fail  to 
live  true  to  the  covenants  which  they 
make  in  marriage  simply  because  the 
urges  of  the  body  are  too  strong  for 
them,  and  they  do  not,  apparently,  seek 
the  spirit  of  God  in  an  effort  to  gain 
control. 

I  have  said  so  many  times,  and  I  re- 
peat it,  that  I  believe  self-control,  perfect 
self-control,  would  be  the  greatest  vic- 
tory that  any  person  born  into  this 
earth  could  gain;  and  with  perfect  self- 
control  and  a  knowledge  of  the  plan 
which  God  prepared  for  us,  which  we 
can  only  find  by  searching  the  scrip- 
tures and  listening  to  the  authorized 
priesthood  of  God,  we  would  be  able 
to  sanctify  our  souls,  would  we  not? 

To  sanctify  means  to  make  holy,  and 
only  holy  things  can  come  back  to  the 
presence  of  God,  our  Heavenly  Father. 
So,  sooner  or  later,  if  we  enjoy  the 
privilege  of  association  under  the  influ- 
ence of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Father,  it 
will  be  because  we  sanctify  ourselves, 
that  our  minds  may  be  single  to  God. 
If  we  had  that  single  purpose,  to  please 
God,  we  would  strive  to  learn  how,  and 
then  to  do  just  exactly  what  would  be 
required. 

For  you  shall  live  "by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of 
God."  (Matt.  4:4.)  That  is  the  key, 
brethren  and  sisters.  Let  us  learn  what 
it  is;  and  when  we  learn  it,  let  us  not 
try  to  find  loopholes  in  the  recorded 
statements  that  will  justify  our  failure, 
but  let  us  determine  through  prayer  and 
humility  to  reach  a  proper  understand- 
ing of  the  plan  and  then  live  it  as  near- 
ly perfectly  as  we  can. 

May  God  bless  us,  I  pray  in  Jesus' 
name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  We  shall  now  hear  Elder  John 
Longden,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Spencer  W. 
Kimball. 


51 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  the  opening  remarks  of  President 
David  O.  McKay  yesterday  morning, 
he  offered  a  prayer  that  we  might 
be  inspired  and  encouraged.  Truly  his 
prayer  has  been  answered,  for  we  have 
been  inspired.  Our  testimonies  have 
been  strengthened.  We  have  received 
encouragement  to  live  the  words  of  the 
Lord. 

President  McKay  also  quoted  from 
the  Master  wherein  he  said  we  should 
deny  ourselves,  take  up  our  cross  daily, 
and  follow  him,  that  we  might  be  able 
to  enjoy  life  in  this  mortal  existence 
regardless  of  its  trials  or  its  obstacles. 

In  the  limited  time  afforded  me  this 
morning,  I  should  like  to  suggest  one 
important  principle  of  the  gospel — that 
of  temple  marriage.  If  we  would  fol- 
low the  Master,  we  must  understand 
this  principle  and  take  advantage  of 
the  blessings  it  offers. 

I  would  encourage  young  people  to 
prepare  for  this  glorious  experience  in 
the  temples  of  the  Lord  by  living  clean, 
good  lives,  by  studying  and  praying, 
that  Satan  may  have  no  power  to  keep 
them  out  of  the  temple.  Just  as  we  are 
dedicated  to  getting  our  young  folk 
into  the  temple,  so  is  Satan  dedicated 
to  keeping  them  out. 

I  should  like  to  relate  three  experi- 
ences which  I  trust  will  stimulate  your 
thinking  and  motivate  some  to  action. 

We  never  know  when  Satan  is  at 
work.  It  was  my  privilege  a  few  years 
ago  to  witness  a  marriage  ceremony  in 
the  temple  performed  by  President 
McKay.  The  young  people  who  were 
being  married  came  from  good  Latter- 
day  Saint  homes  where  they  participated 
in  family  and  individual  prayer.  To 
an  outsider,  it  would  seem  that  all  was 
well.  Yet,  following  the  ceremony  I 
overheard  the  young  bride  say  as  she 
embraced  her  mother  "Why  did  I  ever 
think  of  marrying  any  other  way?"  This 
indicated  to  me  that  there  was  a  question 
in  her  mind  at  one  time. 

Too  many  members  of  our  Church  do 
not  understand  the  principles  of  temple 
marriage  and  succumb  to  the  wiles  of 
Satan  in  being  satisfied  with  a  civil 


marriage;  or  worse  still,  they  do  not 
cherish  virtue  and  are  not  worthy  to 
go  into  the  temple.  This  brings  me  to 
my  second  story: 

A  lovely  Latter-day  Saint  mother  told 
me  of  her  son  who  had  been  taught  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  to  respect  his 
body  and  keep  it  clean.  He  was  to  be 
married  on  the  morrow  in  the  temple. 
The  evening  before  the  ceremony  his 
friends  gave  him  a  party  and  when  he 
arrived  home  he  tiptoed  into  his 
mother's  bedroom  as  had  been  the 
custom,  regardless  of  the  hour.  Awaken- 
ing his  mother  and  sitting  upon  her 
bed,  he  said,  "Mother,  I  have  a  con- 
fession to  make  to  you  tonight."  For 
a  moment  her  heart  sank.  "I  am  just 
as  clean  tonight  as  the  day  you  gave  me 
birth."  My,  what  a  dividend  to  a  par- 
ent. My  child  is  worthy  of  temple 
marriage! 

The  third  story  is  a  review  of  an 
experience  from  the  life  of  Brother 
Matthew  Cowley  and  his  dear  wife 
Elva.  I  trust  she  will  forgive  me.  Mat- 
thew and  she  were  working  in  Washing- 
ton, D.C.  They  decided  to  be  married 
there  by  civil  law  and  then  later  on  to 
come  out  to  the  temple  and  be  sealed 
for  time  and  eternity.  Their  invita- 
tions were  printed  and  were  about  to 
be  mailed  when  a  letter  came  from 
Matthew's  father  pleading  that  they  for- 
sake such  a  plan  and  be  married  by  that 
authority  which  God  has  restored  to 
earth.  He  even  forwarded  the  money  for 
their  transportation  back  to  Salt  Lake 
City.  Their  response  was  favorable. 
The  gospel  teachings  from  early  youth, 
almost  put  aside  for  a  time,  finally  regis- 
tered upon  the  minds  of  these  young 
people.  They  obeyed,  and  have  always 
rejoiced  that  they  followed  the  counsel 
of  their  parents.  It  is  not  good  to  sub- 
stitute a  civil  ceremony  even  for  a  time 
when  it  is  at  all  possible  to  accept  the 
blessings  of  a  temple  marriage. 

Young  people,  this  is  my  testimony  in 
all  humility  and  sincerity  to  you  this 
day:  regardless  of  the  promptings  you 
may  have  to  the  contrary,  stop,  deliber- 
ate, and  pray,  study,  and  let  the  truth 


52  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  6 

and  light  of  the  gospel  come  through. 

In  conclusion,  the  words  of  Robert 
Burns  come  to  me:  "An  atheist's  laughs 
are  a  poor  exchange  for  Deity  offended." 
There  may  be  those  who  would  scoff  at 
temple  marriage.  Never  offend  our 
Eternal  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  by  not 
accepting  one  of  their  greatest  and  most 
important  blessings. 

May  God  bless  us  as  parents  to  teach 
more  earnestly  this  vital  truth  of  temple 


Second  Day 

marriage  and  may  our  children  respond 
to  these  teachings,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Savior.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  listened  to  Elder  John 
Longden,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve.  Elder 
Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  will  be  our  concluding 
speaker. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  I 
should  like  to  speak  to  you  today 
about  our  Lamanite  brothers.  I 
quote  from  Nephite  prophets: 

.  .  .  thus  saith  our  God:  I  will  afflict  thy 
seed  by  the  hand  of  the  Gentiles;  neverthe- 
less, I  will  soften  the  hearts  of  the  Gentiles, 
that  they  shall  be  like  unto  a  father  to 
them;  ...  (2  Nephi  10:18.) 

And  again: 

...  the  Lord  God  will  raise  up  a  mighty 
nation  among  the  Gentiles,  yea,  even  upon 
the  face  of  this  land;  and  by  them  shall  our 
seed  be  scattered. 

And  after  our  seed  is  scattered  the  Lord 
God  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work 
among  the  Gentiles,  which  shall  be  of  great 
worth  unto  our  seed;  wherefore,  it  is  likened 
unto  their  being  nourished  by  the  Gentiles 
and  being  carried  in  their  arms  and  on 
their  shoulders.  (1  Nephi  22:7-8.) 

Relatively  little  progress  had  been 
made  since  Columbus  discovered  Amer- 
ica, until  recent  years.  Hundreds  of 
thousands  of  Indians  were  killed  by  the 
invading  gentiles  from  Europe,  128,000 
in  New  England  alone,  according  to 
historians.  The  rest  were  pushed  back, 
scattered,  and  finally  placed  on  reserva- 
tions. The  battle  of  America  continued 
for  hundreds  of  years,  the  red  people 
fighting  for  their  families,  their  homes, 
their  hunting  grounds,  and  their  very 
existence. 

Finally  the  scriptures  are  being  ful- 
filled. "Nursing  fathers  and  mothers" 
are  being  raised  up  to  bring  the  bless- 
ings of  freedom  and  education  and 


health  to  the  sons  of  Lehi.  We  can 
remember  when  the  majority  of  Navajo 
children  were  without  schools,  and  other 
tribes  were  considerably  limited.  It  is 
said  that  "The  darkest  hour  is  just  be- 
fore the  dawn."  But  their  day  is  dawn- 
ing. There  has  perhaps  been  more 
constructive  consideration  given  to  the 
Indian  people  in  the  last  decade  than 
in  the  entire  century  before. 

In  1947  the  cry  was  raised:  "The 
Navajos  are  freezing  and  starving."  You 
remember,  I  am  sure.  Truckloads  of 
clothing  and  food  were  gathered  here 
in  Utah  and  taken  from  our  Church 
welfare  storehouses  for  these  distressed 
Indians.  Simultaneously,  the  press  took 
up  the  cry  and  the  warmhearted  people 
of  the  nation,  and  particularly  of  the 
West,  answered  the  call  with  bedding, 
food,  clothing,  and  money.  The  echoes 
resounded  from  ocean  to  ocean  and  a 
sleeping  nation  roused  itself. 

Pictures  and  stories  of  want  and  star- 
vation were  printed  in  newspapers  and 
magazines;  pressures  were  brought  to 
bear  upon  officials;  and  the  important 
prophecies  began  to  be  fulfilled  and 
the  arms  of  the  gentile  nation  which 
had  scattered  the  Lamanites  now  opened 
to  enfold  them,  and  the  shoulders 
which  once  were  used  to  push  them 
into  reservations,  now  squared  away  to 
carry  these  deprived  ones  to  their 
destiny.  Even  within  the  past  two  or 
three  years,  great  strides  have  been 
made.  Education,  the  common  denom- 
inator and  leveler,  is  coming  to  the  red 
man.  The  clinic  and  hospital  are  avail- 
able to  him.   Indian  children  are  being 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


53 


born  in  hospitals;  sanitation  is  being 
taught;  and  the  sun  is  rising  on  the 
Indian  world  with  the  government, 
churches,  and  many  agencies  becoming 
"nursing  parents"  to  them. 

Yesterday  tribal  people  resisted  edu- 
cation; today  they  grasp  it  eagerly.  Not 
long  ago  nearly  all  Indians  were  illiter- 
ate and  unschooled;  today  in  1956  near- 
ly every  Indian  child  in  America  may 
have  some  training.  Yesterday  Indian 
children  were  kidnapped  from  their 
parents  and  forced  to  school.  Today 
parents  beg  for  schools,  and  children 
eagerly  attend. 

Indian  life  is  swiftly  changing 
Like  the  sand  in  wind-swept  dunes, 
Ever  changing  'stablished  patterns, 
New  strong  forces,  healing  wounds. 

(Spencer  W.  Kimball.) 
Mr.   Paul   Jones,   chairman  of  the 
Navajo  Council,  recalls  his  childhood 
in  his  inaugural  speech  of  April  4, 
1955: 

The  salvation  and  hope  of  our  Navajo 
people  lies  in  education  ...  at  one  time  we 
made  our  living  on  livestock  and  a  little 
cornpatch.  When  we  returned  from  Fort 
Sumner  there  were  9,000  of  us.  There  are 
now  76,000.  .  .  .  We  must  be  educated  in 
order  to  be  absorbed  with  the  rest  of  the  peo- 
ple of  these  United  States  .  .  .  those  of  you 
who  have  been  educated  must  tell  your 
people  of  the  benefits  of  education.  ...  It 
is  the  greatest  hope  that  we  have  for  our 
Navajo  people.  .  .  .  When  they  returned 
(from  Ft.  Sumner)  they  were  reluctant  to 
send  their  children  to  school.  The  Federal 
Government  had  to  send  police  out  to 
gather  the  children  for  school.  ...  I  re- 
member myself  distinctly.  I  was  of  school 
age  at  that  time.  My  father  and  mother 
used  to  hide  me  under  sheepskins  and 
blankets  when  they  saw  a  person  coming 
who  represented  the  schools.  I  was  the 
only  boy  in  the  family.  They  used  to  hide 
me  when  they  saw  the  school  people  or 
policemen  coming.  However,  one  bright 
day,  they  made  a  mistake.  My  parents  were 
not  on  the  lookout,  and  someone  saw  me, 
even  though  I  was  hiding  behind  the  hogan. 
That  person  said:  "That  boy  must  go  to 
school."  So  away  I  went  to  school.  But 
our  eyes  are  now  open  to  the  advantages 
that  school  has  for  us.  .  .  . 

Today,  Mr.  Jones  is  the  educated  and 
cultured  chief  leader  of  the  Navajo 
tribe. 

The  Treaty  of  1868  with  the  Navajos 


stated  that  the  government  would  pro- 
vide a  school  and  a  teacher  for  every 
thirty  children  between  the  ages  of  six 
and  sixteen, — "who  can  be  induced  or 
compelled  to  attend  school."  Compul- 
sion has  now  been  replaced  with  an  ob- 
session for  school  in  many  families.  It 
is  a  far  cry  from  today  back  to  1744 
when  the  Virginia  commissioners  made 
an  offer  to  the  chiefs  of  the  Six  Nations 
to  educate  six  of  their  Indian  boys. 

It  is  of  interest  to  note  that  in  a 
feeble  way  the  government  has  been 
trying  for  two  hundred  years  to  educate 
the  Indians,  and  from  a  few  at  the  in- 
ception of  the  nation,  today  we  approach 
universal  education  for  them. 

The  Virginia  Commissioners  received 
this  reply  from  the  Indian  chiefs: 

Several  of  our  young  people  were  formerly 
brought  up  at  the  colleges  of  the  Northern 
Provinces;  they  were  instructed  in  all  your 
sciences;  but  when  they  came  back  to  us, 
they  were  bad  runners;  ignorant  of  every 
means  of  living  in  the  woods;  unable  to 
bear  either  cold  or  hunger;  knew  neither 
how  to  build  a  cabin,  take  a  deer,  or  kill 
an  enemy;  spoke  our  language  imperfectly; 
were  therefore  neither  fit  for  hunters,  war- 
riors, or  counselors;  they  were  totally  good 
for  nothing.  We  are  however  not  the  less 
obliged  by  your  kind  offer,  though  we  de- 
cline accepting  it.  And  to  show  our  grateful 
sense  of  it,  if  the  Gentlemen  of  Virginia 
will  send  us  a  dozen  of  their  sons,  we  will 
take  great  care  of  their  education,  instruct 
them  in  all  we  know,  and  make  men  of 
them. 

That  comes  from  the  old  records,  and 
Dr.  Ernest  Wilkinson  quoted  it  in  the 
Indian  Congress  here  last  week. 

Now  may  I  tell  you  of  our  most  per- 
fect program  and  unselfish  adventure  in 
human  relationships.  The  "outing" 
program  had  been  attempted  by  others 
at  times,  but  I  think  never  on  this  basis. 
As  we  began  to  bring  into  the  Churqh 
many  faithful  Indians,  almost  their  first 
desire  was  that  their  children  should 
have  the  schooling  and  church  training 
which  the  non-Indian  children  enjoyed. 
Indian  families  working  among  us  here 
in  our  beet,  cotton,  or  potato  fields  saw 
the  luxury  enjoyed  by  white  children 
who  were  well-fed  and  well-dressed,  in 
comfortable  homes,  going  to  excellent 
schools  daily.  They  saw  their  own  lit- 
tle deprived  fellows  who  must  follow 


54 

Saturday,  October  6 

the  family  to  the  faraway  fields  so  par- 
ents could  earn  money  to  feed  them. 
Their  dreams  and  yearnings  finally 
forced  the  affectionate  parents  to  be- 
come bold  enough  to  approach  a  white 
employer:  "Would  you  let  our  little 
girl  stay  with  you  and  go  to  school  after 
we  have  gone  back  to  the  reservation? 
She  will  be  a  good  girl  and  cause  you 
no  trouble." 

With  the  earnestness  in  their  eyes  and 
the  pleading  in  their  voices,  who  could 
resist?  The  experiment  began.  A  few 
children  were  left  in  homes.  They  were 
happy  and  grateful.  The  foster  parents 
were  pleased,  and  neighbors  wished  also 
to  participate.  On  the  reservation, 
natural  parents  told  their  neighbors, 
who  also  wrote  pleading  letters  for  their 
own  children.  The  number  increased 
to  twenty,  sixty,  eighty,  and  then  last 
year  to  253.  It  grew  like  Topsy.  Ar- 
rangements at  first  were  between  natural 
parents  on  the  reservation  and  willing 
foster  parents  in  Utah;  but  when  the 
Church  determined  to  give  it  support, 
the  plan  was  given  legal  status  and 
brought  under  the  Utah  State  Depart- 
ment of  Public  Welfare,  children's  serv- 
ice, through  the  state  license  of  the 
Relief  Society.  Inasmuch  as  it  is  illegal 
for  anyone  without  a  state  license  to 
engage  in  any  way  in  the  placing  or  re- 
ceiving of  children,  it  is  urged  that 
neither  missionaries  nor  members  engage 
in  the  independent  placement  of  chil- 
dren. 

Here  is  how  the  plan  works: 
In  August  more  than  250  Indian  chil- 
dren move  northward.  The  Begay  family 
is  typical.  The  Begays  have  a  team  and 
spring  wagon  and  ride  slowly  across  the 
hills  and  valleys  and  barren  stretches 
to  the  gathering  place.  In  the  miles 
and  miles  of  travel,  Father  and  Mother 
Begay  have  time  to  discuss  with  Ruth 
and  Billie  the  great  adventure  ahead: 
"Here  is  your  opportunity,"  Father 
Begay  is  saying.  "Our  Church  is  tak- 
ing you  to  a  good  Mormon  home  in 
Utah  where  you  will  be  kindly  treated 
and  may  go  to  school.-  You  must  be 
grateful  and  study  hard  and  learn." 

And  now  Mother  Begay,  in  colorful 
velveteen,  and  her  hair  in  a  bob,  is 
adding:  "These  Church  members  are 
doing  this  in  the  goodness  of  their 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

hearts.  They  are  not  paid  for  the  food 
and  clothes  and  shelter  and  training 
that  they  are  giving  you.  They  will 
treat  you  like  one  of  their  own.  You 
must  do  your  part  like  the  children  of 
the  family." 

At  last  they  reach  the  Gap  in  northern 
Arizona.  Other  Indian  families  are  ar- 
riving also  in  wagons  and  pickups.  The 
kindly  driver  loads  their  belongings  into 
the  chartered  busses.  Our  friendly 
Church  chaperon  meets  the  family  and 
the  children.  Farewells  are  said,  and 
tears  are  shed  as  affectionate  parents 
and  children  part  for  the  school  term. 
Though  already  homesick  and  lonely 
at  heart,  neither  parents  nor  children 
would  change  their  minds,  so  grateful 
are  they  for  the  opportunities  just  open- 
ing. The  Begays  and  the  Chees  and 
the  Biligodys  hitch  up  their  horses,  and 
with  a  tearful  happiness,  drive  to  their 
homes  on  the  reservation,  while  the 
busses,  filled  with  eager,  excited  child- 
ren, drive  northward. 

One  observer  wrote  this  of  the  parting: 

There  were  a  few  tears — tears  of  prema- 
ture homesickness  from  youngsters  leaving 
the  reservation  for  the  first  time  and  sud- 
denly reluctant  and  fearful  of  the  future. 
Tears  from  little  brothers  and  sisters,  too 
young  or  otherwise  unqualified  for  the  great 
adventure.  And  there  were  a  few  furtive 
tears  from  parents,  realizing  at  this  moment 
of  parting  how  long  and  lonely  the  months 
stretched  out  before  spring  vacation. 

Just  a  few  hours  and  the  busses  are 
in  Richfield,  Utah.  The  kindly  chap- 
eron has  kept  the  children  happy  and 
looked  after  their  every  need.  It  is  very 
early  in  the  morning  at  the  reception 
center,  but  it  is  already  a  hive  of  in- 
dustry, and  keen  expectancy  is  in  the 
air.  Sevier  Stake  becomes  the  host,  and 
the  stake  presidency,  members  of  the 
priesthood,  and  the  Relief  Society  sisters 
are  waiting.  There  is  the  smell  of 
bacon  in  the  air,  and  the  young  redskins, 
some  of  whom  have  been  here  before, 
file  out  of  the  busses  and  into  the 
Church  dining  room  for  bacon,  eggs, 
milk,  fruit,  and  cereal,  prepared  by  the 
Relief  Society  sisters. 

Soon  breakfast  is  over.  The  process- 
ing is  begun.  Kind  sisters  take  the  girls 
in  one  building  and  understanding 
priesthood  brethren  the  boys  in  another. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


55 


where  they  are  bathed  and  shampooed 
and  made  ready  for  the  clinic.  The 
food,  soap,  shampoo,  and  other  things 
are  furnished  free  by  the  Church.  All 
who  assist  are  volunteer  workers,  doing 
this  like  all  other  of  their  Church  work, 
without  remuneration.  Six  hundred 
towels  are  furnished  free  by  a  generous 
linen  company,  typical  of  many  other 
favors.  The  children  line  up  for  the 
clinic  where  several  physicians,  fur- 
nished by  the  United  States  Health 
Service,  senior  medical  students,  techni- 
cians, and  several  nurses,  on  loan  from 
the  Utah  State  Health  Department,  all 
go  to  work.  The  little  folk's  chests  are 
x-rayed;  their  hearts,  eyes,  skin,  ears, 
teeth,  and  temperatures  are  checked, 
and  a  complete  record  made.  Their 
fears  are  quieted  by  sweet,  sympathetic 
women  when  tears  of  unhappiness  fol- 
low the  needle-jabbing  of  immuniza- 
tion and  the  blood  test.  They  know 
this  is  for  their  good.  Lunchtime  comes, 
and  another  appetizing  meal  is  enjoyed 
from  welfare  supplies.  There  is  some 
rest,  and  there  is  supervised  play  and  a 
movie. 

Then  come  the  foster  families,  hun- 
dreds of  them,  from  all  over  Utah: 
unpaid  families  whose  only  desire  is  to 
provide  unselfishly  for  the  child  and  to 
"mother"  and  "father"  him  and  train 
and  guide  him.  They  are  driving  in 
from  Kanab  and  Salt  Lake  City;  from 
Moroni  and  Escalante;  from  St.  George 
and  the  Uintah  Basin — unselfish  fami- 
lies anticipating  the  new  arrival  to  their 
family.  There  are  stake  presidents, 
bishops,  mayors,  editors,  doctors,  farmers 
— the  finest  people  in  the  communities 
of  Utah  and  of  the  world — each  family 
to  receive  for  the  school  term  an  Indian 
child,  accepted  by  them  to  become  a 
real  part  of  the  family.  The  white  chil- 
dren present  excitedly  speculate  as  to 
which  of  the  Indian  youngsters,  so 
hungrily  eating  luncheon,  is  to  be  their 
new  brother  or  sister.  In  the  stake  taber- 
nacle films  are  shown  on  Indian  cul- 
ture, and  a  talk  is  given  on  the  part 
each  is  to  play  in  this  glorious  human 
drama.  Four  days  of  this  processing 
follow. 

Now,  for  the  school  term,  the  In- 
dian child  is  on  a  par  with  his  new 
brothers  and  sisters.  He  rides  horses, 
feasts  at  picnics,  does  chores,  goes  swim- 


ming, takes  music  lessons.  He  goes  to 
school  and  enters  into  every  Church, 
civic,  and  community  activity  on  an 
equal  basis.  Before  the  meal,  the  new 
family  member  takes  his  turn  in  fam- 
ily prayers  and  blessing  the  food.  He 
goes  to  Sunday  School  and  priesthood 
meeting.  The  little  ones  go  to  Primary 
and  the  larger  ones  to  MIA,  and  all  the 
family  go  together  to  Sacrament  meet- 
ing. The  child  attends  seminary  and 
is  advanced  in  priesthood  and  auxiliary 
activities.  Many  do  baptism  work  in 
the  temples.  In  school  he  fits  into  the 
regular  classes,  and  if  his  language  is 
faulty,  likely  the  teacher  will  gladly 
give  up  her  noon  hour  to  tutor  him. 
Foster  parents  write  to  natural  parents, 
sending  pictures.  Case  workers  visit 
every  child  and  family  monthly  and 
visit  schoolteachers  and  principals  often 
and  assure  themselves  that  harmony  and 
understanding  prevail. 

The  Indian  children  have  proved 
themselves  to  be  alert,  brilliant,  and 
responsive.  They  often  take  the  lead 
in  their  classes,  being  elected  to  school 
offices,  and  they  graduate  from  many 
high  schools  in  Utah.  They  are  going 
out  into  employment  and  are  making 
good.  The  employer  of  one  of  our  In- 
dian girls  in  office  work  said: 

"She  is  one  of  our  best  workers.  I 
wish  we  had  many  more  like  her." 

Four  months  and  Christmas  comes. 
The  children  remain  in  Utah  where 
they  share  the  Christmas  gifts,  parties, 
and  other  kindnesses  equal  to  and  the 
same  as  the  white  children.  Latter-day 
Saints  have  a  keen  interest  in  the  In- 
dians and  are  willing  to  share  with  and 
sacrifice  for  them. 

Five  more  eventful  months  pass  and 
250  Indian  children  are  on  their  way 
back  to  the  reservation.  Though  some 
might  like  to  remain  in  Utah,  all  are 
sent  home  to  keep  welded  the  natural 
family  ties.  Again  farewells  are  said, 
and  tears  are  shed,  and  they  reluctantly 
leave  their  Utah  homes  and  the  tear- 
ful family  whose  home  and  hearts  they 
have  been  sharing,  and  they  fill  the 
chartered  busses  again.  The  selected 
bus  driver  is  exceptionally  kind;  the 
chaperon  is  most  solicitous.  No  bag- 
gage is  mixed;  no  children  are  lost;  and 
a  happy  group  turns  homeward.  Home! 
Family!    Hours  of  pleasant  travel,  and 


56 

Saturday,  October  6 

the  distribution  center  is  reached.  The 
missionaries  are  here  to  greet  them,  and 
the  Indian  families  to  enfold  them  grate- 
fully to  their  hearts.  For  three  happy 
months  they  will  cement  family  ties  on 
the  reservation,  and  then,  off  for  another 
year  of  school. 

Much  planning  and  prayer  and  fast- 
ing have  gone  into  our  program.  In  the 
summer  the  social  workers  travel 
through  the  reservation.  They  visit  each 
home  or  hogan  and  get  acquainted  with 
the  children  and  the  parents,  catching 
the  spirit  of  the  family,  its  background, 
the  training  of  the  children,  and  their 
individual  needs.  With  our  mission- 
aries, who  nurture  them  constantly, 
these  special  workers  urge  the  parents 
to  have  the  children  examined  and 
treated  for  dental  and  medical  needs. 
Proper  legal  contracts  are  secured,  and 
arrangements  are  made  whereby  mis- 
sionaries will  pilot  them  the  coming 
August  to  the  proper  place  for  embarka- 
tion. Careful  studies  are  made  for  ef- 
ficient and  understanding  placement  for 
the  coming  year. 

Now  the  workers  return  to  the  Utah 
communities  and  visit  the  white  fami- 
lies who  have  previously  signified  their 
willingness  to  co-operate.  The  home 
and  its  facilities  are  studied  to  be  sure 
the  child  and  family  will  be  comfort- 
able and  happy.  The  family  is  inter- 
viewed and,  through  a  visit  to  the  bishop 
of  the  ward,  is  evaluated  and  their 
worthiness  determined.  No  child  of 
trusting  Indian  Church  members  is 
placed  in  a  broken  home  or  one  which 
is  not  an  exemplary  one.  No  child 
goes  into  a  home  where  liquor  is  used 
or  where  there  is  friction  or  delinquent 
children.  He  goes  into  a  well-ordered 
home  where  there  is  the  rare  combina- 
tion of  kindness  and  discipline,  firmness 
and  affection;  into  a  praying  family,  a 
religious,  devoted  family  of  character, 
faith,  and  love.  Here  is  opportunity  at 
its  best  for  the  Indian  to  get  away  from 
his  worst  enemies:  idleness,  liquor,  and 
immorality. 

It  is  heartwarming  to  see  the  friendly 
co-operation  of  government,  state,  and 
local  and  school  officials  and  teachers. 
Our  Church  classes  have  absorbed  the 
little  fellows  into  their  groups,  and 
timid,  shrinking  children  have  become 
happy,  normal  playmates  and  work- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

mates  and  family  members.  One  young 
Indian,  after  five  consecutive  years  with 
a  delightful,  co-operative  family,  gradu- 
ated from  a  Utah  high  school  where  he 
was  student-body  president,  and  with  a 
$350.00  Standard  Oil  scholarship,  at- 
tended Brigham  Young  University;  he 
is  now  in  the  Northern  States  Mission 
on  a  full,  regular  mission.  Two  other 
Indian  boys  are  filling  regular  mis- 
sions in  the  Southwest  Indian  Mission, 
where  Oneida  Indian  girls  have  also 
filled  missions.  This  is  the  beginning. 
The  future  is  most  promising. 

We  expect  our  graduating  youth  will 
continue  from  these  high  schools  into 
Brigham  Young  University.  At  first 
there  were  a  few,  and  some  of  them  dis- 
continued, but  last  year  with  thirty-four 
representing  eighteen  tribes  from  east 
to  west,  and  this  year  with  even  more, 
they  are  already  taking  hold  and  stabil- 
izing themselves.  From  now  on  we 
expect  that  Indians  in  ever-increasing 
numbers  will  be  numbered  in  the  gradu- 
ating classes  of  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity. 

The  Church  has  generously  provided 
for  an  intermediate  program  whereby 
Indian  students  who  have  come  a  little 
short  of  collegiate  requirements  may 
have  special  tutorial  service  from  skilled 
teachers.  Scholarships  are  provided  to 
assist  worthy  students  in  the  university, 
but  many  of  our  Inidan  children  are 
already  paying  their  entire  way. 

Hundreds  of  our  Indian  youth  are 
receiving  character-building  and  re- 
ligious training  wherever  they  go  in 
government  schools  in  Kansas,  Okla- 
homa, Oregon,  California,  Nevada, 
Arizona,  New  Mexico,  and  in  the  great 
Intermountain  Indian  School  at  Brig- 
ham City,  Utah,  where  we  have  a 
branch  of  the  Church  comprised  of  In- 
dians. Here,  President  David  O.  McKay 
last  winter  dedicated  the  commodious 
chapel  near  the  school  wherein  our 
youth  are  taught  correct  principles,  all 
the  virtues  and  the  doctrines  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Our  program  is  appreciated  by  the 
Indian  people.  When  some  opposition 
threatened  the  program  last  summer 
in  one  area,  a  petition  was  sent  to  us 
signed  by  many  Indian  parents  pleading 
for  the  continuance  of  the  program, 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


57 


and  reservation  officials  were  also  ap- 
proached.  The  petition  read: 

We  parents  feel  that  your  organization 
has  done  wonders  for  our  children,  and 
we  wish  you  would  try  every  effort  to  place 
our  children  this  year. 

One  prominent  non-member  observer 
wrote  us: 

You  have  the  most  perfect  program  for 
Navajo  children  that  has  ever  been  initiated 
to  this  time.  We  are  all  grateful  for  its 
outstanding  success. 

Another  said: 

I  have  never  enjoyed  a  more  wonderful 
experience  in  wholehearted  co-operation  and 
complete  harmony  of  effort  than  I  enjoyed 
at  Richfield. 

A  tribal  leader  wrote  us: 

.  .  .  This  is  very  gratifying  to  our  Navajo 
people  in  that  your  organization  has  taken 
such  interest  in  our  Navajo  children.  .  .  . 
We  deeply  appreciate  your  service  to  our 
Navajo  people.  .  .  .  There  have  been  several 
notifications  reporting  the  foster  homes  for 
educational  purposes  by  your  child  placing 
agency  as  a  very  important  and  noteworthy 
help.  .  .  . 

Two  missionaries  wrote,  when  the 
children  had  returned  home  for  the 
summer: 

Yesterday  in  our  testimony  meeting,  a 
mother  of  one  of  the  girls  who  went  to 
Utah  this  year  got  up  and  told  how  grate- 
ful she  she  was  to  our  Father  in  heaven  that 
her  girl  had  been  able  to  go  up  to  Utah 
where  she  could  learn  to  pray,  speak  English 
better,  cook,  sew,  and  gain  the  schooling 
that  she  wanted  her  child  to  have  that  she 
herself  didn't  get. 

One  sister  wrote  of  the  first  Sacrament 
meeting  after  the  return  of  the  children 
from  Utah,  how  without  embarrassment 
they  had  taken  part  in  the  services,  giv- 
ing talks,  songs,  and  how  some  had 
borne  testimony  with  such  poise  and 
impressiveness  that  the  parents  were 
amazed,  as  were  Indian  children  who 
had  been  away  to  other  schools. 

In  our  great  country  times  are  chang- 
ing. Schools  are  provided  for  practical- 
ly every  Indian  child,  and  tribal  funds 
are  made  available  for  determined  but 
impecunious  students.  True  religion 
and  faith  in  the  Eternal  God  are  replac- 
ing superstition;  the  physician  is  taking 


the  place  of  the  medicine  man;  and 
administration  by  the  priesthood  is  re- 
placing the  sand  patterns  and  the  signs 
for  the  Latter-day  Saint  members.  Young 
couples  are  obtaining  licenses  from  court 
clerks  and  being  married  by  ministers 
and  bishops.  Bodies  are  being  buried 
much  the  same  as  the  white  dead.  The 
Indians  who  still  place  on  the  grave 
meats  and  fruits  and  other  foods  cannot 
understand  why  the  dead  of  the  white 
man  can  smell  the  flowers  any  more 
than  the  Indian  dead  can  enjoy  the 
food.  The  destructive  custom  of  burn- 
ing the  home  and  its  contents  when 
death  occurs  therein  is  giving  way.  One 
of  our  sweet  Apache  sisters  wrote  this 
at  the  death  of  her  husband: 

I  live  in  my  house.  I  do  not  burn  it  like 
other  Indians.  I  believe  what  the  mis- 
sionaries tell  me.  I  think  they  are  my 
brother. 

This  is  our  adventure  in  good  citizen- 
ship and  righteous  living,  our  experi- 
ment in  human  relationships  carried 
on  by  this,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  Knowing  the 
origin  and  destiny  of  the  red  men  and 
believing  the  promises  of  God  as  re- 
corded in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  our 
people  are  willing  to  sacrifice  for  the 
progress  and  development  of  these  whose 
deprivations  pyramided  mountain  high 
but  whose  curse  is  now  being  lifted. 
Hundreds  more  sacrificing  Latter-day 
Saints  may  yet  have  the  opportunity  of 
providing  temporary  homes  for  Lehi's 
children  to  get  an  education  and  to 
learn  the  gospel  and  to  become  Church 
leaders. 

This  is  not  a  proselyting  program,  for 
we  bring  from  the  reservations  those 
Indian  children  who  are  already  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  and  whose  families 
generally  are  members.  The  program 
will  make  good  young  people,  stalwart 
adults.  It  will  fortify  them  against  the 
evils  of  the  world;  it  will  train  them  to 
become  self-sufficient;  it  will  develop 
them  into  leaders  prepared  to  return  to 
their  own  people  and  bring  to  them  the 
benefits  which  can  come  from  educa- 
tion. 

This  program  has  many  advantages: 
It  has  at  once  the  multiple  advantages 
of  the  boarding  school,  the  day  school, 
the  home,  the  refining  and  cultural  in- 
fluences of  an  improved  community. 


58 

Saturday,  October  6 

The  children  are  taught  in  superior 
schools,  fully  accredited,  and  among  the 
best  in  the  nation.  They  have  sufficient 
companionship  of  their  own  race  to  re- 
tain their  pride  in  and  love  for  their 
own  people,  for  in  the  same  community 
and  school  are  other  Indian  young  peo- 
ple. They  have  the  environment  of  the 
best  communities  where  are  found  the 
least  in  the  world's  vices  and  the  most 
of  its  culture  and  refinement.  They  re- 
tain their  family  ties  with  natural  par- 
ents by  correspondence,  pictures,  relayed 
reports,  and  also  letters  through  the 
case  workers,  and  they  return  to  their 
homes  for  the  summer  months  to  keep 
bound  their  home  and  family  loves  and 
loyalties.  They  grow  naturally  into  the 
culture  of  America  at  its  best,  attending 
with  a  minority  of  their  own  group  and 
a  majority  of  the  non-Indian  children, 
activities  in  school,  community,  church, 
and  family.  They  are  not  institutional- 
ized but  individualized  and  become 
recognized  members  of  the  family  where 
they  are  integrated  and  "counted  in" 
for  every  family  pleasure,  adventure,  or 
sacred  experience. 

Our  program  is  unique.  Here  is  no 
family  of  marginal  income  who  must 
take  in  a  boarder  to  supplement  the 
family  living.  Here  is  no  mercenary 
care.  But  here  non-Indian  families  in 
a  very  real  and  lovable  way  absorb  the 
Indian  children  as  new  members  of  the 
family.  These  families,  give,  give,  and 
give  as  only  dedicated  people  will  give. 
There  is  no  remuneration  for  them;  but 
their  total  compensation  for  the  food, 
clothes,  shelter,  care,  and  love  they  give 
is  the  satisfaction  which  comes  in  giv- 
ing opportunity  for  an  enriched  life  to 
one  who  could  not  otherwise  have  it. 

We  rejoice  in  the  greatly  accelerated 
schooling  of  Indian  children  by  the  gov- 
ernment, the  states,  and  other  churches 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

and  agencies,  but  we  present  this  pro- 
gram of  training  in  home  and  school 
and  community  as  the  finest  program 
conceived  of  man  for  the  rapid  and 
permanent  advancement  and  progress 
of  the  Indian  child  so  long  deprived. 
Let  them  have  one  generation  of  this 
sustained  program,  and  see  a  new  In- 
dian world  of  prosperity,  culture,  and 
happiness. 

In  conclusion  we  say:  God  bless  these 
selfless  hundreds  of  families  who  have 
become  and  are  yet  to  become  "nursing 
fathers  and  mothers"  who  will  continue 
to  carry  the  chosen  children  of  the  an- 
cient prophet  Lehi  "in  their  arms  and 
upon  their  shoulders,"  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  addressed 
us. 

I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  the 
Combined  Scandinavian  Choirs  will  be 
with  us  again  this  afternoon.  We  thank 
you  for  your  presence  and  your  inspira- 
tion. They  will  now  sing,  "The  King 
of  Love  My  Shepherd  Is,"  conducted  by 
Elder  R.  Hulbert  Keddington. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  George  W.  Romney,  president  of 
Detroit  Stake,  after  which  this  Confer- 
ence will  be  adjourned  until  two  o'clock 
this  afternoon. 

Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  has  been 
at  the  organ. 

Singing  by  the  Combined  Scandi- 
navian Choirs,  "The  King  of  Love  My 
Shepherd  Is." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  George  W.  Romney,  president  of 
the  Detroit  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle Saturday  afternoon,  October  6,  at 
2:00  p.m. 

The  Combined  Scandinavian  Choirs 
furnished  the  music  for  this  session.  R. 
Hulbert  Keddington  was  the  conductor, 
Roy  M.  Darley,  organist. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  great  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  is  filled  to 
capacity.  Every  seat,  so  far  as  we  can 
observe,  is  taken,  and  people  are  stand- 
ing in  the  doorways  at  this,  the  Fourth 


ELDER  HA1 

Session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty- 
seventh  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  standing  in 
the  doorways  we  are  pleased  to  announce 
that  overflow  meetings  are  being  held 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  in  Barratt 
Hall,  where  a  public  address  system  and 
television  are  operating.  These  services, 
for  those  who  are  listening,  are  also 
being  televised  over  KSL-TV,  Channel 
5,  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  broadcast  over 
Radio  Station  KSL,  and  also  over  11 
radio  stations  in  Utah,  Nevada,  and 
Idaho,  and  by  special  arrangement  over 
two  television  stations  in  Utah  and 
Idaho. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  attend- 
ance this  afternoon  of  prominent  na- 
tional and  state  officials,  leaders  in  edu- 
cational circles.  We  extend  a  hearty 
welcome  to  these,  especially  to  the  wives 
of  the  mission  presidents  who  have  been 
in  attendance  here  by  special  invitation 
to  the  dedicatory  services  of  the  Relief 
Society  building,  and  we  welcome  our 
boys  who  are  here  who  are  enlisted  in 
the  Military  Service,  and  all  who  are 
listening  in. 

The  singing  for  the  afternoon  session 
will  be  by  the  Combined  Scandinavian 
Choirs,  with  Elder  R.  Hulbert  Kedding- 
ton  conducting,  and  Elder  Roy  M.  Dar- 
ley  at  the  organ.   We  shall  begin  these 


)LD  B.  LEE  59 

services  by  the  Combined  Choirs  sing- 
ing, "How  Lovely  Are  the  Messengers." 
The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Heber  J.  Heiner,  Jr.,  president  of 
the  Ben  Lomond  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  Combined  Choirs, 
"How  Lovely  Are  The  Messengers." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Heber  J.  Heiner,  Jr.,  president  of 
the  Ben  Lomond  Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  just  offered  was  by 
Elder  Heber  J.  Heiner,  Jr.,  president  of 
the  Ben  Lomond  Stake  in  Ogden.  The 
Combined  Scandinavian  Choirs  will 
now  favor  us  with  "Almighty  God,  We 
Humbly  Bow  Before  Thee."  Following 
this,  we  shall  hear  from  Elder  Harold 
B.  Lee. 


Selection  by  the  Combined  Scandi- 
navian Choirs,  "Almighty  God,  We 
Humbly  Bow  Before  Thee." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first  speaker 
this  afternoon.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


This  afternoon  I  am  encouraged  by 
the  impressive  discourse  of  President 
McKay  at  the  opening  of  this  con- 
ference to  give  humble  expression  to 
some  thoughts  that  I  have  had  on  what 
I  consider  to  be  one  of  the  most  im- 
portant matters  which  concern  the  Lat- 
terday  Saints  today. 

In  the  Documentary  History  of  the 
Church,  Volume  IV,  there  is  recorded 
an  incident,  and  there  is  copied  a  letter 
which  was  prepared  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  at  the  request  of  the  editor 
and  publisher  of  a  newspaper,  who  had 
asked  the  Prophet  to  write  an  article 


telling  of  the  rise,  the  progress,  the  perse- 
cutions, and  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  The  Prophet  agreed  to  do  so 
on  one  condition,  and  that  condition 
was  that  they  would  take  his  article  in 
its  entirety,  with  no  deletions  or  no 
changes.  There  appears  then,  in  this 
letter,  or  this  article  which  was  written 
for  the  paper,  one  of  the  most  important 
historical  documents  which  we  have  in 
Church  history. 

In  that  letter  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  told  about  an  experience  that  he 
had  on  the  evening  of  September  21, 
1823.   While  he  was  engaging  in  hum- 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

ble  prayer  unto  God,  suddenly  he  dis- 
covered that  the  room  in  which  he  was 
praying  was  being  filled  with  light,  a 
light  brighter  than  the  brightness  of 
the  sun,  and  as  he  marveled  at  this 
brightness,  he  was  aware  that  a  per- 
sonage had  entered  the  room  with  a 
consuming  brightness  even  greater  than 
that  which  he  had  beheld  in  the  room. 

As  he  recovered  from  the  shock  of 
the  appearance  of  this  personage,  who 
introduced  himself  to  the  Prophet  as 
a  messenger  sent  from  God,  the  mes- 
senger announced  four  things,  which 
are  declared  in  this  document  to  which 
I  have  made  reference  and  which  are 
of  great  significance  to  the  work  today 
and  as  it  was  to  be  established  under  the 
instrumentality  of  the  boy  prophet, 
Joseph  Smith.  I  shall  only  make  brief 
reference  to  three  of  these  announce- 
ments of  the  heavenly  messenger: 

The  first  thing  that  the  messenger  said 
was  that  the  covenant  which  God  had 
made  with  ancient  Israel  was  at  hand 
and  about  to  be  fulfilled.  This  un- 
doubtedly made  reference  to  that  cove- 
nant which  was  announced  to  Abraham, 
who  because  of  his  faithfulness,  was 
promised  that  through  him  and  his  seed 
all  the  nations  of  the  earth  would  be 
blessed:  and  God  would  make  of  Abra- 
ham's seed  a  great  nation.  We  need 
only  to  be  reminded  that  the  Savior  of 
the  world  came  through  that  lineage; 
and  while  his  personal  ministry  was 
only  to  the  house  of  Israel,  before  he  left 
his  disciples  he  declared  to  them  that 
they  were  "to  preach  repentance  and 
remission  of  sins  unto  all  the  earth,  be- 
ginning at  Jerusalem."  From  this  lineage 
a  chosen  people  was  to  be  prepared  to 
set  up  the  kingdom  of  God  in  these 
last  days,  and  it  was  over  this  kingdom 
which  the  Christ  was  to  reign  when  he 
came  on  earth  for  the  second  time. 

The  second  announcement  that  was 
made  by  this  heavenly  messenger  was 
that  a  preparatory  work  for  the  second 
coming  of  the  Messiah  was  speedily  to 
commence.  You  will  recall  that  just 
before  the  Master's  crucifixion  he  told 
his  disciples  that  he  would  come  again, 
and  they  said  to  him,  as  they  sat  upon 
the  mount  with  him,  perhaps  for  one 
of  the  last  times,  "Master,  tell  us  when 
these  things  shall  be."  And  then  there 


Second  Day 

came  from  his  lips  a  train  of  happen- 
ings which  he  said  would  be  the  sure 
foretelling  that  the  time  was  nigh  at 
hand  when  his  second  coming  was  draw- 
ing near,  when  he  should  appear  in  the 
clouds  of  heaven  with  great  power  and 
great  glory. 

After  he  administered  forty  days 
among  them  after  his  crucifixion  and 
resurrection,  he  was  caught  away  from 
them  in  the  clouds  of  heaven,  and  two 
angelic  personages  dressed  in  white  said 
to  those  who  were  witnesses  of  the 
Master's  ascension, 

Ye  men  of  Galilee,  why  stand  ye  gazing 
up  into  heaven?  this  same  Jesus  which  is 
taken  up  from  you  into  heaven,  shall  so 
come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have  seen  him 
go  into  heaven.  (Acts  1:11.) 

The  third  thing  that  the  messenger 
announced  to  the  Prophet  was  that  the 
time  was  at  hand  for  the  gospel  in  all 
its  fulness  to  be  preached  in  power  unto 
all  the  nations.  This  was  in  fulfilment 
of  that  which  had  been  promised  to 
John  when  the  angel  would  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  "having  the  [fulness 
of  the]  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  to 
them  that  dwell  on  the  earth."  (Rev. 
14:6.)  The  restoration  of  that  fulness  of 
the  gospel  was  accomplished  when  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  which  was  declared 
to  be  a  record  in  which  the  fulness  of 
the  gospel  was  contained,  was  restored 
to  the  world  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 

That  the  gospel  might  be  "preached  in 
power"  required  something  else.  Pre- 
ceding the  organization  of  the  Church 
it  was  necessary  that  the  keys  of  the 
priesthood  be  committed  again  unto 
men  so  that  the  gospel  could  be  preached 
with  power,  and  its  ordinances  admin- 
istered unto  men. 

But  the  final  and  fourth  thing  which 
was  announced  is  the  thing  about  which 
I  wish  to  address  the  few  remarks  that 
I  make  this  afternoon.  That  was  that 
a  people  might  be  prepared  for  the 
millennial  reign.  The  meaning  of  that 
term  was  understood,  apparently,  from 
the  prophets  down  from  Enoch's  time 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith's  time, 
when  the  Lord  spoke  of  a  thousand  year 
period   in  the  world's  history  which 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


61 


would  be  called  a  millennial  reign, 
which  would  commence  with  the  sec- 
ond coming  of  the  Savior.  John  saw  in 
vision  the  resurrection  of  the  just  who 
would  reign  with  Christ  for  a  thousand 
years.  He  saw  that  during  this  period 
Satan  would  be  bound,  that  there  would 
be  peace  upon  the  whole  earth.  Heaven 
and  earth  would  be  closely  associated, 
and  all  unfinished  work  pertaining  to 
this  world  would  be  completed.  In- 
justices would  be  righted,  and  at  the 
end  of  that  reign  would  come  a  final 
judgment. 

Now,  I  have  asked  myself,  this  being 
the  time  to  prepare  for  the  millennial 
reign,  how  shall  we  set  about  to  prepare 
a  people  to  receive  the  coming  of  the 
Lord?  As  I  have  thought  seriously  about 
that  matter,  I  have  reached  two  or  three 
sure  conclusions  in  my  own  thinking. 
This  preparation  demands  first  that  a 
people,  to  receive  the  coming  of  the 
Lord,  must  be  taught  the  personality  and 
the  nature  of  God  and  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ. 

Someone  has  said  this:  the  demand  of 
our  modern  age  is  not  "for  a  God  who 
once  was,  but  for  a  God  who  now  is." 
As  I  read  that,  I  thought,  how  can  one 
meet  a  person  whose  identity  is  un- 
known? How  can  one  be  prepared  to 
meet  a  person  about  whom  he  has  no 
knowledge?  How  can  one  be  prepared 
to  meet  a  being  whose  personality  he 
cannot  comprehend? 

Great  thinkers  have  long  since  recog- 
nized this  need  in  religion  if  it  is  to 
become  a  vital  force.  George  Harris, 
in  his  book  A  Century  of  Change  in  Re- 
ligion, said  this:  "The  thought  of  God 
as  a  personality  is  a  necessary  condition 
of  everything  that  is  contained  within 
the  field  of  religious  experience." 

Professor  Hacking  of  Harvard  in  his 
"Meaning  of  God  in  Human  Experi- 
ence," made  even  a  more  significant 
statement  when  he  wrote:  "The  alterna- 
tive to  the  thought  of  God  as  a  person 
is  the  thought  of  Him  as  a  substance, 
as  mere  energy,  and  chiefly  as  law.  Just 
stop  and  consider  for  a  moment  what 
it  would  mean  for  us  to  try  to  obey  the 
will  of  substance,  of  love,  of  energy, 
or  worship  law,  and  you  will  have  some 
idea  at  least  of  how  near  this  question 


of  the  personality  of  God  comes  to  the 
heart  of  true  religion." 

When  the  Apostle  Paul  spoke  of  the 
organization  of  the  Church,  he  said 
that  one  of  the  prime  purposes  of  its 
organization  was 

...  for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of 
Christ: 

Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son  of 
God,  unto  a  perfect  man.  (Eph.  4:12-13.) 

And  you  will  remember  in  that  last 
memorable  prayer,  the  Master  said,  "And 
this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might 
know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent."  (John 
17:3.) 

Eternal  life  is  God's  life,  or  life  with 
God.  In  other  words,  it  seems  to  me, 
they  are  trying  to  tell  us  that  the  worthi- 
ness to  abide  in  his  holy  presence  can 
be  obtained  only  by  knowing  God  and 
by  knowing  Jesus  Christ  whom  he  has 
sent. 

To  my  thinking,  another  requisite  of 
that  preparation  to  receive  the  Lord 
at  the  beginning  of  his  millennial  reign 
demands  that  the  people  be  taught  to 
accept  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of 
Jesus  as  the  Savior  of  the  world.  Why 
was  the  Savior  sent  into  the  world?  The 
Master  himself  answered  that  question 
during  his  ministry  when  he  said:  "For 
God  sent  not  his  Son  into  the  world  to 
condemn  the  world;  but  that  the  world 
through  him  might  be  saved."  (Ibid., 
3:17.) 

In  a  revelation  in  our  day  he  said  it 
again: 

For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suf- 
fered death  in  the  flesh;  wherefore  he 
suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men 
might  repent  and  come  unto  him. 

And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead, 
that  he  might  bring  all  men  unto  him,  on 
conditions  of  repentance.  (D  &  C  18:11-12.) 

Saved  from  what?  Redeemed  from 
what?  Well,  first,  saved  from  mortal 
death  through  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead.  But  in  another  sense  we  are 
saved  likewise  by  his  atoning  sacrifice. 
We  are  saved  from  sin.  Here  is  what 
the  Prophet  Alma  explained  to  his  peo- 
ple concerning  this  matter: 


62 

Saturday,  October  6 

And  he  shall  come  into  the  world  to 
redeem  his  people;  and  he  shall  take  upon 
him  the  transgressions  of  those  who  be- 
lieve on  his  name;  and  these  are  they 
that  shall  have  eternal  life,  and  salvation 
cometh  to  none  else.  (Alma  11:40.) 

...  he  cannot  save  them  in  their  sins; 
for  I  cannot  deny  his  word,  and  he  hath 
said  that  no  unclean  thing  can  inherit  the 
kingdom  of  heaven;  therefore,  how  can  ye 
be  saved,  except  ye  inherit  the  kingdom  of 
heaven?  Therefore,  ye  cannot  be  saved  in 
your  sins.  (Ibid.,  11:37.) 

That  last  declaration  of  the  Prophet 
Alma  points  to  still  another  require- 
ment, as  I  see  it,  for  a  people  to  be  pre- 
pared to  receive  the  Savior's  coming.  We 
must  be  cleansed  and  purified  and  sanc- 
tified to  be  made  worthy  to  receive  and 
abide  that  holy  presence.  The  Prophet 
Mormon  put  it  this  way: 

Behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  ye  would  be 
more  miserable  to  dwell  with  a  holy  and 
just  God,  under  a  consciousness  of  your 
filthiness  before  him,  than  ye  would  to  dwell 
with  the  damned  souls  in  hell.  (Mormon 
9:4.) 

How  can  this  cleansing  take  place? 
The  answer  is:  through  holy  ordinances 
which  the  Lord  has  established  for  that 
purpose.  We  are  saved  by  grace,  yes, 
through  the  atonement  of  the  Master, 
but  Nephi  taught  this  other  principle: 
".  .  .  for  we  know  that  it  is  by  grace 
that  we  are  saved,  after  all  we  can  do." 
(2  Nephi  25:23.) 

Now  the  nature  of  that  ordinance  by 
which  salvation  can  be  obtained  is  ex- 
plained clearly  also  by  the  Prophet 
Nephi: 

Wherefore,  my  beloved  brethren,  I  know 
that  if  ye  shall  follow  the  Son,  with  full 
purpose  of  heart,  acting  no  hypocrisy  and 
no  deception  before  God,  but  with  real  in- 
tent, repenting  of  your  sins,  witnessing  unto 
the  Father  that  ye  are  willing  to  take  upon 
you  the  name  of  Christ,  by  baptism — yea, 
by  following  your  Lord  and  your  Savior 
down  into  the  water,  according  to  his  word, 
behold,  then  shall  ye  receive  the  Holy 
Ghost;  yea,  then  cometh  the  baptism  of 
fire  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost;  and  then  can 
ye  speak  with  the  tongue  of  angels,  and 
shout  praises  unto  the  Holy  One  of  Israel. 

And  I  heard  a  voice  from  the  Father, 
saying:  Yea,  the  words  of  my  Beloved  are 
true  and  faithful.   He  that  endureth  to  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

end,  the  same  shall  be  saved.  (Ibid.,  31:13, 
15.) 

And  now,  finally,  there  is  still  one 
more  thing  that  is  necessary,  to  my 
thinking,  before  that  preparation  is 
made  for  the  millennial  reign.  We  must 
accept  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  as  the  instrumentality 
through  which  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  and  the  organization  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  was  accom- 
plished. Each  member  of  the  Church, 
to  be  prepared  for  the  millennial  reign, 
must  receive  a  testimony,  each  for  him- 
self, of  the  divinity  of  the  work  estab- 
lished by  Joseph  Smith.  It  was  this 
that  was  taught  plainly  by  the  Saints 
after  the  advent  of  the  Savior  upon  the 
earth,  and  one  of  the  leaders  in  our 
day  has  said  it  again,  when  he  declared, 
I  suppose  with  reference  to  the  parable 
of  the  five  foolish  and  five  wise  virgins 
in  the  Master's  parable,  "The  time  will 
come  when  no  man  nor  woman  will  be 
able  to  endure  on  borrowed  light.  Each 
will  have  to  be  guided  by  the  light 
within  himself."  (Life  of  Heber  C. 
Kimball,  pp.  449-450.) 

These  things  being  true,  then  it  must 
become  our  object  and  our  whole  de- 
sire to  teach  these  fundamental  things 
to  prepare  our  people  for  his  coming. 
As  Brother  Romney  delivered  his  very 
excellent  address  on  the  subject  of  the 
perfecting  of  the  Saints,  I  remembered 
what  a  prominent  commentator  said 
about  the  quotation  from  the  writings 
of  Paul  to  the  Ephesians.  He  said  there 
should  be  no  comma  after  the  word 
saints.  He  said  it  should  read  "for  the 
perfecting  of  the  saints  in  the  work  of 
the  ministry,"  stressing  the  importance 
of  perfecting  all  who  are  called  to  posi- 
tions of  leadership  in  preparing  the 
people  to  receive  a  knowledge  of  the 
Son  of  God.  Whether  or  not  this  is 
the  correct  interpretation,  it  is  certain 
that  in  our  homes,  in  our  seminaries 
and  institutes,  in  the  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions, in  the  priesthood  quorums,  we 
must  teach  the  knowledge  and  nature 
of  the  Godhead.  We  must  teach  the 
mission  of  the  Savior  of  the  world.  We 
need  to  teach  the  purifying  principles 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  We  need 
to  teach  the  need  of  and  the  restoration 
of  the  gospel  through  the  instrumentality 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


63 


I  suppose  some  might  think  it  pre- 
sumptuous if  I  were  to  plead  with  the 
teachers  of  youth  in  secular  as  well  as 
in  religious  education  not  to  tear  down 
the  foundation  stones  upon  which  a 
human  soul  can  build  faith  necessary 
to  prepare  to  meet  their  Redeemer.  I 
would  from  my  humble  station  invite 
those  who  would  fight  against  the  truth 
as  taught  in  the  restored  Church  to  think 
seriously  of  what  a  wise  counselor  said 
to  the  enemies  of  Christ  in  the  day  of 
Peter  and  his  associates.  This  counselor 
admonished: 

Refrain  from  these  men,  and  let  them 
alone:  for  if  this  counsel  or  this  work  be  of 
men,  it  will  come  to  nought: 

But  if  it  be  of  God,  ye  cannot  overthrow 
it;  lest  haply  ye  be  found  to  fight  against 
God.  (Acts  5:38-39.) 

Perhaps  today  is  the  time  for  us  to 
hear  again  the  rallying  call  that  was 
put  into  words  by  W.  W.  Phelps: 

Awake!  O  ye  people,  the  Savior  is  coming; 
He'll  suddenly  come  to  his  temple,  we  hear; 
Repentance  is  needed  of  all  that  are  living, 
To  gain  them  a  lot  of  inheritance  near. 
Today  will  soon  pass  and  that  unknown 
tomorrow 

May  leave  many  souls  in  a  more  dreadful 
state 

Than  came  by  the  flood,  or  that  fell  on 

Gomorrah — 
Yea,  weeping  and  wailing  when  grief  is  too 

late. 

Be  ready,  O  island,  the  Savior  is  coming; 
He'll  bring  again  Zion,  the  prophets  declare; 
Repent  of  your  sins,  and  have  faith  in  re- 
demption, 
To  gain  you  a  lot  of  inheritance  there. 


A  voice  to  the  nations  in  season  is  given, 
Prepare,  oh,  prepare  for  the  kingdom's  new 
birth, 

To  call  the  elect  from  the  four  winds  of 
heaven; 

For  Jesus  is  coming  to  reign  upon  earth." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  as  his  children 
to  recognize  that  call,  and  may  we  say 
and  be  able  to  say  it  with  power, 
"Choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will 
serve,  .  .  .'but  as  for  me  and  my  house, 
we  will  serve  the  Lord,  (the  God  of  this 
land,)"  (Josh.  24:15)  and  prepare  for 
the  coming  of  the  Savior,  which  may 
not  be  too  long  delayed,  to  cut  short 
for  the  reign  of  righteousness  the  wick- 
edness that  well  nigh  seems  to  engulf 
a  wicked  world;  when  those  who  are 
righteous  at  his  coming  will  be  caught 
up  in  the  clouds  of  heaven  to  meet  him, 
and  those  who  are  asleep  in  their  graves, 
who  are  righteous  likewise,  will  be 
caught  up  in  the  clouds  of  heaven  to 
meet  him. 

I  bear  you  my  solemn  witness  that  I 
believe  these  things  to  be  true  with  all 
my  soul.  This  is  the  day  for  us  to  pre- 
pare that  people  ready  to  receive  the 
coming  of  the  Lord,  and  I  bear  that 
testimony  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
S.  Dilworth  Young. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


A great  American  philosopher  once 
said  that  we  should  thank  God  every 
day  of  our  lives  for  the  privilege  of 
having  been  born.  And  then  he  went 
on  to  speculate  on  the  unique  question  of 
how  unfortunate  it  would  have  been  if 
we  had  not  been  born,  and  he  pointed 
out  some  of  the  wonderful  things  that 
we  would  have  missed. 

Really  to  understand  the  tremendous 
value  of  life  as  revealed  by  the  gospel 


multiplies  by  many  times  the  import- 
ance of  this  thought.  Life  is  our  most 
valuable  possession.  Just  to  live  is  a 
marvelous  blessing,  especially  to  live  in 
these  days  of  wonder  and  enlightenment 
known  as  the  Dispensation  of  the  Ful- 
ness of  Times. 

In  the  days  of  Job  it  was  said,  "All 
that  a  man  hath  will  he  give  for  his 
life."  (Job  2:4.)  For  a  very  wise  pur- 
pose, God  has  implanted  in  every  hu- 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

man  heart  a  great  natural  desire  for 
continued  existence.  We  cling  to  life 
with  every  ounce  of  our  strength.  Even 
in  severe  sickness  or  oppressive  trouble, 
we  will  .still  go  to  almost  any  length  to 
prolong  life  even  for  a  week  or  a  month, 
though  the  period  gained  may  be  one 
of  pain  or  hopelessness.  But  we  will 
suffer  almost  any  inconvenience  or  en- 
dure almost  any  hardship  just  to  live. 

Now  if  mortal  life  is  worth  so  much, 
how  much  is  eternal  life  worth?  And 
what  would  it  mean  to  us  if  it  were 
lost?  God  himself  placed  a  value  on 
eternal  life  when  he  said  it  was  his 
greatest  gift  to  man.  It  therefore  auto- 
matically becomes  our  most  important 
opportunity  to  give  every  co-operation  to 
help  bring  it  about.  And  a  good  place 
to  start  is  the  place  suggested  by  the 
philosopher — that  is,  to  live  our  appre- 
ciation every  day.  What  a  wonderful 
way  to  begin  this  quest  for  eternal  life, 
if  we  could  always  live  the  sentiment  of 
the  song  that  says — 

I  love  life,  and  I  want  to  live, 
To  drink  of  life's  fulness,  take  all  it  can 
give; 

I  love  life,  every  moment  must  count, 
To  glory  in  its  sunshine  and  revel  in  its 
fount. 

Even  if  we  gave  "everything"  to  secure 
eternal  life,  we  still  have  made  the  most 
wonderful  bargain  in  the  world.  Wil- 
liam James  said,  "The  greatest  use  of 
life  is  to  spend  it  for  something  that 
outlasts  it."  Eternal  exaltation  lasts  for- 
ever and  is  the  greatest  possible  good. 

But  the  benefits  of  eternal  life  are  not 
limited  to  its  dimension  of  length.  It 
has  been  pointed  out  that  life  has  four 
dimensions: 

First,  there  is  the  length  of  life — or 
how  long  we  live. 

Second,  there  is  the  breadth  of  life — 
or  how  interestingly  we  live. 

Third,  there  is  the  depth  of  life — or 
how  much  we  live,  represented  by  those 
great  qualities  of  love,  worship,  devotion, 
service,  etc. 

Then  there  is  a  fourth  dimension  of 
life,  which  might  be  compared  to  that 
more  or  less  mysterious  fourth  dimension 
of  space,  the  purpose  of  life — or  why  we 
live. 


Second  Day 

In  the  ordinary  situations  we  multiply 
the  dimensions  to  get  the  total  volume. 
Suppose  therefore  that  we  could  multi- 
ply the  dimensions  of  life. 

First  there  is  the  length  of  life. 

We  have  made  some  progress  in  the 
last  few  centuries  in  increasing  life's 
length.  You  may  be  interested  to  know 
that  if  you  had  lived  two  thousand 
years  ago  in  Jerusalem,  your  life  ex- 
pectancy at  birth  would  have  been 
approximately  nineteen  years.  In  George 
Washington's  day  in  America  it  was 
thirty-five  years.  In  the  America  of  our 
day,  it  is  seventy  years.  We  have  not 
only  tripled  life's  length,  but  it  is  also 
now  possible  for  us  to  have  clearer 
minds  and  stronger  bodies  and  live  in 
a  world  from  which  physical  pain  has 
largely  been  eliminated. 

But  no  one  is  satisfied  with  this  ac- 
complishment. The  only  life  we  seek 
is  eternal  life.  It  has  been  wisely  said 
that — "If  the  death  of  the  body  should 
forever  end  human  life  and  personality, 
then  the  universe  would  be  throwing 
away  with  utter  heedlessness  its  most 
precious  possession.  A  reasonable  per- 
son does  not  build  a  violin  with  infinite 
care,  gathering  the  materials  and  shap- 
ing the  body  of  it,  so  that  it  can  play 
the  composition  of  the  masters,  and  then 
by  some  whim  of  chance  caprice,  smash 
it  to  bits.  Neither  does  God  create  in 
his  own  image  the  great  masterpiece  of 
of  a  human  life,  and  then  when  it  has 
just  begun  to  live,  throw  it  utterly 
away." 

God  holds  firmly  in  his  hands  the  keys 
of  eternal  life. 

Now  suppose  that  we  could  multiply 
the  length  by  the  breadth  of  life. 

Life  at  its  best,  even  in  mortality,  is 
filled  with  interest  and  wonders.  After 
the  creation,  God  looked  upon  the  earth 
and  called  it  good.  It  is  an  earth  of 
boundless  beauty  and  endless  fascina- 
tion, where  we  may  continually  grow  in 
knowledge  and  appreciation.  When  in 
our  pre-mortal  existence  we  beheld  the 
foundations  of  the  earth  being  laid  and 
knew  that  we  were  going  to  have  the 
privilege  of  living  upon  it,  we  are  told 
that  "all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for 
joy."  (Job  38:7.)  And  I  am  sure  that 
if  we  fully  remembered  now  what  we 
knew  for  sure  then,  we  would  be  willing 
to  crawl  on  our  hands  and  knees  through 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


65 


life  for  the  privilege  of  being  born  and 
having  the  opportunity  of  proving  our- 
selves faithful  during  the  experiences  of 
mortality. 

Then  our  first  parents  were  placed 
upon  the  earth  and  were  asked  to  de- 
cide whether  or  not  they  would  eat  the 
fruit  from  the  tree  of  knowledge,  and 
after  they  had  eaten,  God  said,  "the 
man  is  become  as  one  of  us,  to  know 
good  and  evil."  (Gen.  3:22.)  And  I 
would  like  to  point  out  in  passing,  that 
the  right  kind  of  knowledge  still  tends 
to  have  that  effect  upon  people.  It  still 
tends  to  make  them  become  as  gods. 
And  the  most  important  classification 
of  that  knowledge  is  to  know  God  and 
his  plans  for  our  betterment.  When  at 
the  beginning  of  that  long,  awful  night 
of  betrayal  and  trial  Jesus  offered  the 
great  prayer  to  his  Father,  he  said,  "And 
this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know 
thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ, 
whom  thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:3.) 

We  live  in  a  day  when  the  gospel  has 
been  restored  to  the  earth  in  a  fulness 
never  known  before.  In  addition  to  the 
things  that  other  dispensations  have 
had,  we  now  have  the  three  great  vol- 
umes of  new  scripture,  outlining  in  every 
detail  the  simple  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel. The  pathway  to  eternal  life  has 
now  been  perfectly  marked  and  bril- 
liantly lighted,  and  no  one  now  needs 
to  get  off  the  straight  and  narrow  way, 
except  by  his  own  choice.  We  live  in  a 
day  when  we  may  eat  the  fruit  from  the 
tree  of  knowledge  of  good  and  evil  to 
our  heart's  content.  There  is  no  flam- 
ing sword  guarding  the  tree  of  knowl- 
edge, and  some  of  the  greatest  joys  of 
life  are  the  joys  of  understanding,  born 
in  our  own  minds.  Edward  Dyer  said — 

My  mind  to  me  a  kingdom  is; 
Such  pleasant  joys  therein  I  find 
That  it  excels  all  other  bliss 
That  earth  affords  or  grows  by  kind. 

The  gift  of  eternal  exaltation  includes 
not  only  a  celestial  body,  but  also  a 
celestial  mind.  We  will  have  quickened 
senses,  amplified  powers  of  perception, 
and  vastly  increased  capacity  for  happi- 
ness and  understanding. 

We  know  from  firsthand  experience 
some  of  the  traits  and  characteristics  of 
glorified,  immortal  beings,  from  those 
who  have  visited  the  earth.   In  describ- 


ing the  Angel  Moroni,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  said,  "His  whole  person 
was  glorious  beyond  description,  and  his 
countenance  truly  like  lightning.  .  .  ." 
Not  only  was  his  person  glorious,  but 
also  the  Prophet  said  his  clothing  was 
brilliant  "beyond  any  earthly  thing  I 
had  ever  seen;  nor  do  I  believe  that  any 
earthly  thing  could  be  made  to  appear 
so  exceedingly  white  and  brilliant." 
(P  of  G  P,  Joseph  Smith  2:32,  31.) 

We  are  all  familiar  with  the  wonder- 
ful lift  it  gives  us  to  be  appropriately 
dressed  in  beautiful  clothing.  We  adorn 
our  bodies  and  keep  them  clean  and 
attractive  and  in  other  ways  go  to  great 
lengths  to  make  them  pleasant  places  to 
live.  If  attractive  clothing  gives  us 
pleasure,  what  must  be  the  joy  of  living 
forever,  dressed  in  a  glorified,  celestial- 
ized  body — to  live  with  a  celestial  fam- 
ily and  friends  on  a  celestial  earth — 
but  with  the  great  added  fascination  of 
having  a  celestial  mind,  one  that  thinks 
like  Godl 

Then  suppose  we  multiply  the  total 
of  the  length  and  breadth  by  the  depth 
of  life. 

The  objective  of  life  is  not  only  to 
live  long,  but  also  to  live  well.  It 
is  not  only  to  acquire  but  also  to  be- 
come; it  is  not  only  to  receive  benefits 
but  also  to  render  service.  Wealth  con- 
sists not  so  much  in  what  we  have  as  in 
what  we  are  and  do.  I  suppose  that  the 
eight  most  important  words  ever  spoken 
are  these:  "So  God  created  man  in  his 
own  image.  .  .  ."  (Gen  1:27.)  But  not 
only  has  each  of  you  been  created  in 
the  image  of  God,  but  each  has  also 
been  endowed  with  a  set  of  attributes 
of  divinity,  the  development  of  which 
is  one  of  the  purposes  for  which  we  live. 
As  Jesus  admonished  us,  "Be  ye  there- 
fore perfect,  even  as  your  Father  which 
is  in  heaven  is  perfect."  (Matt.  5:48.) 
The  plan  of  eternal  progression  con- 
templates that  the  offspring  may  ulti- 
mately become  like  the  parent,  and 
therefore  fulfils  the  scripture  which  says 
that  "men  are  that  they  might  have 
joy,"  (2  Nephi  2:25)  as  the  greatest  joys 
of  life  are  the  joys  of  being. 

Then  there  is  the  purpose  of  life, 
that  which  gives  life  its  significance. 

For  a  wise  and  glorious  purpose 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

Thou  JGodJ  hast  placed  us  here  on  earth 
And  withheld  the  recollection 
Of  our  former  friends  and  birth. 

(Eliza  R.  Snow.) 

Some  day  that  recollection  and  those 
friendships  will  be  given  back  to  us, 
but  in  the  meantime,  what  a  wonderful 
stimulation  to  know  that  life  is  not  an 
accident  or  an  afterthought  or  a  result 
of  blind  chance!  The  great  plan  of 
salvation  was  designed  by  God  our 
Father  for  our  benefit.  We  have  been 
working  toward  the  goal  of  eternal 
exaltation  through  a  long  period  of  pre- 
mortal existence.  Then  we  walked  by 
sight.  We  knew  God.  He  is  our  Father. 
We  lived  with  him.  We  saw  his  glori- 
ous, resurrected  celestial  body.  We  felt 
the  wonder  of  his  celestial  mind  and  the 
delight  of  his  wonderful  personality. 
We  wanted  to  be  like  him.  We  knew 
we  must  follow  his  example.  We  must 
learn  obedience.  We  must  learn  to 
walk  a  little  way  by  faith.  We  must 
pass  the  final  test  of  mortality  where 
we  are  free  to  choose  for  ourselves.  We 
must  be  educated  and  proven  and  sancti- 
fied and  redeemed. 

And  when  we  have  finally  proved  our- 
selves worthy  of  exaltation,  then  eternity 
will  be  the  measure  of  life's  length; 
celestial  glory  will  be  the  measure  of 
its  breadth;  to  be  like  God  will  be  the 
measure  of  its  depth. 

Our  salvation  is  made  up  of  so  many 
individual  thoughts  and  acts  and  hours 


Second  Day 

of  effort,  certainly  it  would  be  the  height 
of  foolishness  so  much  to  dread  to  throw 
mortal  life  away  all  at  once,  but  then 
deliberately  to  throw  away  eternal  life 
a  little  at  a  time.  It  has  been  said  that 
few,  if  any,  will  ever  lose  their  salva- 
tion by  a  blowout.  Mostly  salvation  is 
lost  by  a  series  of  slow  leaks — a  little 
indecision,  a  little  indifference,  a  little 
procrastination,  a  little  slothfulness. 

Disobedience  may  cut  down  life's 
length  by  producing  spiritual  death. 
Lethargy  may  reduce  its  breadth  and  in- 
tensity. Sin  may  destroy  its  depth,  its 
godliness,  its  joy.  Ignorance  may 
thwart  its  purpose. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  the  gospel  has 
been  given  to  help  us  increase  the 
dimensions  of  our  lives.  That  was  also 
the  mission  of  the  Savior  of  the  world 
who  said,  "I  am  come  that  they  might 
have  life,  and  that  they  might  have 
it  more  abundantly."  (John  10:10.) 
".  .  .  all  that  a  man  hath  he  will  give  for 
eternal  life,"  (See  Job  2:4)  is  still  the 
greatest  bargain  in  the  world.  May  God 
help  us  to  spend  our  lives  effectively  to 
that  end,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  been  speaking  to  us. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  S.  Dil- 
worth  Young  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Yesterday  there  was  a  story  read  to 
you  by  Elder  Clifford  E.  Young 
concerning  Peter  and  John  in  the 
court  of  the  temple  healing  a  lame  man 
who  asked  for  alms.  May  I  finish  the 
story  for  you: 

Now  when  they  saw  the  boldness  of  Peter 
and  John,  and  perceived  that  they  were 
unlearned  and  ignorant  men,  they  mar- 
velled; and  they  took  knowledge  of  them, 
that  they  had  been  with  Jesus. 

And  beholding  the  man  which  was  healed 
standing  with  them,  they  could  say  nothing 
against  it. 

But  when  they  had  commanded  them  to 


go  aside  out  of  the  council,  they  conferred 
among  themselves, 

Saying,  What  shall  we  do  to  these  men? 
for  that  indeed  a  notable  miracle  hath  been 
done  by  them  is  manifest  to  all  them  that 
dwell  in  Jerusalem;  and  we  cannot  deny  it. 

But  that  it  spread  no  further  among  the 
people,  let  us  straitly  threaten  them,  that 
they  speak  henceforth  to  no  man  in  this 
name. 

And  they  called  them,  and  commanded 
them  not  to  speak  at  all  nor  teach  in  the 
name  of  Jesus. 

But  Peter  and  John  answered  and  said 
unto  them,  Whether  it  be  right  in  the  sight 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


67 


of  God  to  hearken  unto  you  more  than  unto 
God,  judge  ye. 

For  we  cannot  but  speak  the  things  which 
we  have  seen  and  heard.  (Acts  4:13-20.) 

It  is  that  last  phrase  about  which  I 
wish  to  speak.  I  should  like  to  apply  it 
to  children.  It  is  the  burden  of  the 
Church,  if  any  such  thing  can  be  a 
burden,  to  testify  of  things  "seen  and 
heard."  How  are  we  to  teach  children? 
They  do  not  know  all  that  an  adult 
should  know,  but  they  should  have  no 
doubt  as  to  where  adults  stand. 

Every  boy  has  a  right  to  get  the  feel- 
ing that  his  father  and  his  mother  and 
his  priesthood  teacher,  his  Sunday 
School  teacher  and  his  scoutmaster,  or 
anyone  with  whom  he  comes  into  asso- 
ciation in  the  Church,  knows  of  a  surety 
of  things  "seen  and  heard."  Every  girl 
has  a  right  to  the  same  assurance  that 
her  parents  and  leaders  know  of  things 
"seen  and  heard."  Young  folks  them- 
selves do  not  know  yet,  but  confidence 
which  they  must  develop  comes  because 
those  closely  in  touch  with  them  con- 
stantly bear  witness  to  them  in  act,  in 
deed,  in  word,  that  they  know  of  things 
"seen  and  heard,"  the  things  seen  and 
heard  mentioned  by  Peter  and  John; 
the  things  mentioned  by  Nephi  in  the 
first  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
in  talking  about  his  father  Lehi,  of  the 
things  he  saw  and  heard;  the  glories  of 
the  gospel  and  of  Jesus  Christ  and  of 
all  the  things  "seen  and  heard"  of 
him  and  of  the  things  Joseph  Smith 
"saw  and  heard." 

Children  are  not  well  taught  by  just 
being  told.  When  I  was  a  young  man, 
at  one  time  I  worked  on  a  ranch  in 
Idaho  for  a  large  cattle  outfit.  Fences 
were  more  of  a  curiosity  than  now.  The 
first  morning  I  went  to  work  for  them 
(and  I  was  green  at  it)  the  boss  sent 
the  man  who  took  care  of  the  "remuda," 
the  horses,  out  to  get  them  before  day- 
light. I  was  curious  to  know  how  those 
cowboys  were  going  to  rope  and  saddle 
their  horses  because  I  could  see  no  cor- 
ral. I  assumed  the  "punchers"  were 
going  to  have  a  rare  time  chasing  them 
down.  But  as  day  broke,  in  they  came, 
fifty  or  sixty  head  of  horses  at  a  dead 
run,  and  they  came  to  a  corral  I  had 
not  noticed.  Stakes  had  been  driven  in 
a  large  circle  on  the  prairie,  each  stake 


protruding  about  eighteen  inches  above 
the  ground.  In  the  top  of  each  stake 
was  an  eyelet,  and  threaded  through 
the  eyelet  was  a  rope;  wings  went  out 
from  a  twenty-foot  entrance,  perhaps 
one  hundred  feet  on  both  sides.  These 
horses  came  into  the  enclosure  at  a  full 
gallop.  The  rope  did  not  reach  to 
their  knees,  and  yet  not  a  horse  stepped 
over  it.  The  punchers  went  into  that 
little  makeshift  corral  and  roped  their 
animals,  saddled  and  bridled  them, 
mounted  and  rode  the  buck  out  of  them, 
and  not  a  horse  jumped  over  that  rope 
out  of  the  corral. 

I  asked  the  foreman  why  that  was, 
and  he  said,  "They  know  better."  I 
did  not  learn  until  later  what  "better" 
meant,  but  the  horses  through  fear  first 
and  habit  second  had  long  since  learned 
where  they  could  go  and  where  they 
could  not,  and  what  they  could  do  and 
what  they  should  not  do  about  stepping 
over  that  rope. 

Well,  children  are  not  horses,  or  even 
like  horses,  and  we  cannot  teach  them 
by  fear  because  that  has  a  bad  effect 
upon  them,  but  teach  them  we  can 
and  teach  them  we  must. 

May  I  give  you  half  a  dozen  homely 
and  homey  suggestions  which  to  me 
seem  simple,  in  relation  to  teaching 
children?  Before  I  give  them  to  you, 
may  I  say  that  teaching  is  an  attitude. 
One  does  not  learn  by  the  words 
spoken,  but  rather  by  the  attitude  and 
spirit  in  what  they  are  spoken.  One 
does  not  always  learn  by  action,  but  by 
the  happiness  with  which  the  action  is 
performed.  And  the  lesson  must  be 
repeated  over  and  over  again  all  the 
time  the  child  is  growing  up.  Surely 
the  Lord  knew  what  he  was  doing  when 
he  said,  in  effect,  "I  am  going  to  give 
you  these  children  for  twenty  years  or  so, 
before  they  mature,  and  in  that  twenty 
years  repeat  with  them  what  they  must 
know  well."  Twenty  years  is  a  long 
time  to  a  child.  You  have  plenty  of 
time  to  give  them  the  habit  of  not 
stepping  over  the  rope  without  having 
them  fear  it. 

First,  let  us  revive  that  happy  custom 
of  taking  our  meals  together.  Let  us 
abolish  the  snack  bars  in  our  kitchens 
and  establish  a  table  around  which 
all  may  sit,  and  let  Father  have  break- 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

fast  with  his  children  as  well  as  supper 
and  let  them  sit  there  for  a  few  moments 
after  each  meal  and  have  conversation 
about  things  about  which  Father  and 
Mother  would  like  to  talk.  That  cus- 
tom is  going  out  of  our  existence  rapidly. 
It  is  a  powerful  thing;  it  will  work 
wonders  on  children. 

Second,  when  Father  comes  home  at 
night,  I  suggest  to  him  that  he  really 
resist  this  temptation  and  put  the  paper 
in  a  hidden  place  until  the  children 
have  gone  to  bed.  The  newspaper  has 
no  place  in  the  home  where  children 
are  until  the  father  has  spent  the 
evening  with  them.  And  it  is  like  read- 
ing for  fifteen  minutes  a  day — if  you 
spend  fifteen  minutes  or  twenty  minutes 
with  each  child  according  to  his  years 
in  doing  things  which  are  interesting 
to  him  and  being  a  companion  to  him, 
you  have  come  nearer  to  fulfilling  your 
obligations  as  a  father.  If  you  leave  it 
up  to  the  mother,  and  get  behind  the 
newspaper,  I  think  you  have  committed 
a  sin,  because  the  child  is  neglected,  and 
you  have  not  done  your  duty.  So  be 
firm;  put  the  newspaper  under  the  mat 
until  after  the  children  have  gone  to 
bed. 

Third,  be  sure  to  spend  time  with 
each  child,  according  to  that  child's 
age  and  interests.  With  a  three-year-old 
girl,  if  you  have  to,  get  down  and  play 
paper  dolls.  With  a  seventeen-year-old 
son,  who  wants  to  go  to  the  Brigham 
Young-University  of  Utah  game,  that 
is  where  you  should  be  (unless  you  have 
to  be  in  this  priesthood  meeting). 

The  point  is,  by  the  time  the  child 
is  twenty,  he  should  be  so  companion- 
able with  his  father  that  he  can  talk  to 
him  about  anything  he  wants  to.  The 
way  to  do  it  is  to  be  companionable  at 
every  age  of  his  life,  from  the  beginning. 
That  is  why  it  is  important  to  learn 
how  to"  handle  a  baby,  fathers,  and  do 
all  the  things  that  a  baby  requires. 

Fourth,  it  is  a  poor  parent  who  is  not 
up  or  awake  when  the  children  come 
home  from  late  parties  or  late  dates. 
Then  is  the  time  to  invite  them  to  talk 
over  what  happened;  to  enjoy  the  things 
which  were  good  and  to  be  counseled 
on  avoiding  the  things  which  were  sor- 
rowful; to  counsel  wisely  about  the 
things  which  they  might  have  done 


Second  Day 

which  were  wrong.  This  practice,  kept 
up  all  the  days  of  his  childhood,  will  be 
a  great  deterrent  for  a  child  who  is 
anxious  to  stay  out  longer  than  he 
should.  My  mother  sat  up  for  me,  and 
I  did  not  have  the  nerve  ever  to  keep 
her  waiting  too  long.  I  knew  she  was 
there.  It  helped  me.  It  will  help  all 
the  children. 

Fifth,  no  parent  in  this  Church  is 
doing  his  duty  unless  he  makes  the  Sab- 
bath what  it  should  be.  It  should  be  a 
happy  day  together,  with  the  whole 
family  participating.  The  first  thing  in 
the  morning,  Father  and  Johnny  go  to 
priesthood  meeting,  and  Father  should 
take  Johnny  there,  not  Johnny  take 
Father.  They  should  discuss  things  on 
the  way  there  and  coming  home,  too. 
Each  one  should  feel  that  the  other  is 
equal  to  him,  and  the  father  should 
take  particular  care  that  Johnny  under- 
stands his  priesthood.  The  Aaronic 
Priesthood  is  vital.  This  is  successful 
not  so  much  because  of  what  is  said 
but  because  of  the  unsaid  emotions  and 
feelings  engendered. 

And  then,  parents  encourage  the  chil- 
dren, and  themselves  as  much  as  they 
can,  to  go  to  Sunday  School  and  to  the 
auxiliaries.  But  above  all  things,  the 
whole  family,  if  it  is  going  to  do  what 
it  ought  to  do,  must  go  to  Sacrament 
meeting.  Father  and  Mother  should 
lead  the  way,  the  children  following 
close  after  and  staying  there  until  it  is 
dismissed.  If  one  child  is  too  small, 
one  can  go  out  with  him,  walk  him  up 
and  down  until  he  gets  the  kinks  out 
of  his  legs,  or  if  a  small  child  is  crying, 
one  may  have  to  take  it  home;  but  the 
family  understands  that  at  the  proper 
hour,  all  are  in  Sacrament  meeting  to- 
gether. 

Now  those  suggestions  followed  care- 
fully with  assiduousness  will  bring 
others.  I  have  not  talked  about  many 
things  that  should  happen  in  the  home, 
but  they  will  happen:  prayer,  love,  all 
of  the  things  which  go  with  it. 

May  I  conclude  by  reminding  you  of 
the  first  thing  that  I  said,  things  "seen 
and  heard."  How  necessary  it  is  for 
a  parent  to  bear  that  witness!  I  have  an 
aged  great-grandmother,  long  since  dead, 
who  in  her  ninety-seventh  year  was  ap- 
proached by  one  who  had  lost  faith, 
and  thinking  perhaps  that  the  grand- 


BISHOP  JOSEP: 

mother,  too,  had  lost  some,  said  to  her, 
"You  knew  the  Prophet.  What  did  you 
think  of  him?"  This  aged  woman  had 
endured  the  vicissitudes  of  the  seventies' 
trek  from  Kirtland  to  Missouri,  had  suf- 
fered through  Haun's  Mill  with  her 
infant  child  in  her  arms,  had  counted 
the  long  miles  across  the  plains,  and 
then  had  lived  through  years  of  poverty 
in  Utah.  She  smiled  as  she  looked  at 
this  person,  and  I  think  disappointed 
the  person,  too,  because  this  is  what 
she  said:  "We  all  knew  that  he  was  a 
Prophet." 

So  we  all  do  know  that  he  was  a 
Prophet,  but  do  our  children  know  it? 
Do  our  children  know  that  we  know 
it?  That,  I  think,  is  our  greatest  obliga- 
tion as  we  face  life  with  these  little 
ones  who  are  given  to  us  to  rear  to 
adulthood. 

My  testimony  is  like  my  great-grand- 
mother's: I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  Prophet  and  that  he  saw  and 
heard  glorious  things.  I  know  that  he 
held  the  keys,  and  I  know  that  he  passed 
them  on  to  his  successors,  even  down 


L.  WIRTHL1N  69 

to  President  McKay  and  those  who 
assist  him.  That  is  my  witness  to  you, 
in  the  name  of  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed 
us.  The  congregation  now  will  sing, 
"Praise  To  The  Man  Who  Communed 
With  Jehovah."  Elder  Richard  P. 
Condie  will  lead  us. 

After  the  singing,  Bishop  Joseph  L. 
Wirthlin  will  address  us. 


Singing  by  the  Combined  Choirs  and 
the  congregation,  "Praise  to  the  Man 
Who  Communed  with  Jehovah." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  will  now  speak  to 
us.  Bishop  Wirthlin  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
want  to  bear  you  my  testimony 
that  I  know  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  selected  by  God  for  the  purpose 
of  establishing  the  Church  and  prepar- 
ing the  people  for  the  second  coming  of 
Jesus  the  Christ. 

The  following  revelation  was  given  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  wherein  the 
Lord  said: 

The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall  come 
forth  and  break  down  the  mighty  and  strong 
ones.  .  .  .  (D  &  C  1:19.) 

The  Church  was  established  with  a 
membership  of  six  people,  and  in  that 
day  it  was  thought  by  many  it  would 
be  only  a  short  time  until  the  Church 
would  be  destroyed,  particularly  after 
the  life  of  the  Prophet  had  been  taken. 
Today,  the  membership  of  the  Church 
is  approximately  1,375,000,  indicating  to 
the  world  that  it  may  have  been  weak 


in  the  beginning  of  its  establishment, 
but  out  of  it  the  Church  has  become 
strong  and  powerful  because  of  the 
people  who  accepted  the  gospel. 

In  connection  therewith,  the  Book  of 
Mormon  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price 
were  given  to  the  world  through  revela- 
tion, and  in  every  case,  there  still  may 
be  found  in  the  thoughts  of  many  the 
weakness  of  things,  but  these  weak 
things  are  becoming  strong  and  going 
forth  and  breaking  down  the  mighty 
and  strong  ones  in  the  world. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  never  had  the 
opportunity  of  attending  great  schools 
or  universities.  He  was  one  of  the  com- 
mon ones  that  the  Lord  selected  because 
the  Lord  knew  it  would  be  possible  to 
give  him  the  assignments  of  establish- 
ing the  Church  and  teaching  the  world 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as 
it  was  about  to  be  given  to  mankind. 

I  think  of  the  great  missions  of  the 


70 

Saturday,  October  6 

Church  in  the  world,  some  forty-five  of 
them,  where  the  gospel  is  being  preached 
to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and 
people.  It  is  a  great  source  of  encour- 
agement to  everyone  of  us  to  know 
that  the  gospel  is  being  taught  to  the 
people  of  the  world,  even  in  far-off 
Korea  where  ten  years  ago  we  very 
seldom  thought  or  dreamed  that  the 
gospel  would  be  taken  to  the  Korean 
people.  Yet,  the  people  in  Korea  are 
accepting  it,  and  the  Church  is  being 
established.  Some  of  the  weak  things 
are  there,  but  they  are  being  accepted, 
and  the  mighty  and  great  things  among 
that  people  are  being  broken  down  to 
the  end  that  the  people  will  come  to  an 
understanding  of  the  gospel. 

The  same  is  true  with  reference  to 
the  Japanese  and  Chinese  people.  We 
know  that  Brother  Henry  D.  Moyle, 
who  has  spent  much  time  these  past 
few  months  among  the  great  people  in 
South  America,  has  done  a  great  work 
among  the  missionaries  and  has  taught 
the  people  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  The  strong  and  mighty  things 
in  South  America  are  being  broken 
down,  and  the  people  there  are  anxious 
to  accept  the  restored  gospel  and  enjoy 
all  the  blessings  therein. 

In  the  revelations  from  the  Lord  to 
the  Prophet,  indicating  to  him  the  work 
that  should  be  done  for  the  dead,  we 
are  reminded  of  a  statement  of  Paul, 
an  apostle  of  the  Savior,  when  he  said, 

Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are  bap- 
tized for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise  not  at 
all?  why  are  they  then  baptized  for  the 
dead?  (I  Cor.  15:29.) 

This  has  been  a  question  in  the  minds 
of  many  individuals — something  they 
cannot  understand.  Paul  understood 
it;  that  is  the  reason  he  asked  that 
question.    So,  again, 

The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall  come 
forth  and  break  down  the  mighty  and 
strong  ones.  (Ibid.,  1:19.) 

One  of  the  mighty  and  strong  ones 
in  the  world  has  been  the  idea  that 
the  dead  will  not  have  an  opportunity 
of  accepting  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  or  all  of  the  opportunities 
that,  no  doubt,  existed  in  the  days  of 
Christ  himself,  when  he  visited  those 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

people  who  had  died  and  were  held  in 
prison  because  they  were  wicked  dur- 
ing the  days  of  Noah.  So,  there  was 
established,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
the  temples.  At  the  present  time  we 
have  ten  of  them.  The  Prophet  Joseph, 
you  will  recall,  established  a  temple 
in  Nauvoo  wherein  work  was  done  for 
the  dead. 

The  Statement  of  Ordinances  Per- 
formed in  all  the  Temples,  as  compiled 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple,  indicates  that 
from  the  time  when  temple  ordinances 
for  the  living  and  the  dead  were  re- 
vealed to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  until 
December  31,  1955,  18,607,876  baptisms 
have  been  done  for  the  dead;  15,848,297 
endowments  for  the  dead;  4,138,706 
sealings  of  dead  couples;  8,198,061  seal- 
ings  of  dead  children  to  parents;  or  a 
total  of  46,792,940  ordinances  done  for 
the  dead.  This  indicates  to  us  again  the 
truth  of  the  words  of  the  Lord  when 
he  said, 

The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall  come 
forth  and  break  down  the  mighty  and 
strong  ones.  (Ibid.,  1:9.) 

We  must  come  to  the  understanding 
that  through  the  Prophet  Joseph,  the 
temples  have  been  established  wherein 
the  dead  may  have  all  of  the  blessings 
and  opportunities  which  may  be  en- 
joyed by  those  who  are  now  living.  You 
and  I  have  the  same  opportunities  of 
going  into  the  temples. 

Also,  according  to  the  same  Statement 
of  Ordinances  Performed  in  all  the 
Temples,  as  previously  mentioned, 
56,649  baptisms  have  been  done  for 
the  living;  478,711  endowments  for  the 
living;  231,139  sealings  of  living  couples; 
208,209  sealings  of  living  children  to 
parents,  or  a  total  of  974,708  ordinances. 

Through  the  work  for  the  dead  and 
the  opportunities  for  the  living,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  we  all  come  to  the 
knowledge  that  this  is  the  Church  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  which  has  been 
given  to  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
and  all  of  the  prophets  who  have  fol- 
lowed him. 

Let  us  consider  what  we  are  teaching 
our  sons  and  our  daughters  in  con- 
nection with  their  schoolwork.  We 
now  have  twenty-seven  institutes  and 
387  seminaries.    In  connection  with 


BISHOP  JOSEP^ 

these,  we  have  our  Church  schools — 
Ricks  College,  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity, LDS  Business  College,  McCune 
School  of  Music,  and  for  the  people 
down  in  the  Islands,  we  have  the 
Church  school  in  Hawaii,  the  Church 
school  in  Samoa,  the  Church  school  in 
New  Zealand,  and  then  the  Church 
schools  in  Colonia  Juarez,  Mexico.  These 
give  the  young  people  the  opportunity 
to  receive  an  education  in  connection 
with  the  Church  and  to  become  ac- 
quainted with  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

Brigham  Young  University  came 
through  the  direction  of  Brigham 
Young,  an  apostle  and  a  prophet.  This 
past  year,  1955-56,  there  were  9,502 
young  people  attending  this  great 
Church  school.  Their  testimonies  have 
been  strengthened.  They  know  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God,  that  God 
lives,  and  that  there  stands  at  the  head 
of  this  great  organization  a  prophet  of 
this  day,  an  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  other  apostles  who  are  in- 
terested in  carrying  on  this  great  work 
in  this  great  institution. 

The  Prophet  received  many  revela- 
tions for  the  blessing  and  help  of  the 
people,  particularly  with  reference  to 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  The  great  men 
of  the  time  knew  little  of  the  detri- 
mental affect  of  the  use  of  tobacco, 
liquor,  and  foods  that  are  harmful,  but 
the  Prophet  Joseph  knew  and  taught  it 
to  the  people.  The  great  scientists  of 
today  advocate  that  to  partake  of  to- 
bacco and  liquor  is  not  good.  All  of 
these  teachings  came  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  first.  This  brings 
us  again  to  the  thought  that,  "The  weak 
things  of  the  world  shall  come  forth 
and  break  down  the  mighty  and  strong 
ones." 

The  Prophet  Joseph  declared:  "I  saw 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  I  knew  that 
God  knew  it,  and  I  could  not  deny  it, 
neither  dared  I  do  it:  at  least  I  knew 
that  by  so  doing  I  would  offend  God 
and  come  under  condemnation."  (See 
P  of  G  P,  JS  2:25.)  He  was  willing  to 
give  up  his  life  for  the  truth  when  he 
said  to  the  world,  "I  saw  the  Father 
and  the  Son."  They  knew  it,  and  he 
dared  not  say  anything  else  other  than 
that  because  to  do  so  would  bring  him 
under    condemnation.     The  Prophet 


L.  WIRTHLIN  71 

Joseph  has  given  to  us  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  has  so  told  us 
that  while  in  the  eyes  of  the  world  to- 
day there  may  be  weak  things  in  the 
gospel,  yet  as  you  and  I  and  the  world 
become  acquainted  with  them,  live 
them,  and  understand  them,  the  time 
will  come  whereby  these  "weak  things" 
will  come  forth  and  break  down  the 
mighty  and  strong  ones. 

As  a  people  living  in  Zion  where  we 
are  close  to  the  prophet,  close  to  the 
apostles,  and  all  of  those  who  guide 
and  direct  our  affairs,  we  should  realize 
that  we  must  live  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness  that  we  may 
be  among  those  who  might  be  called 
"the  weak  things  of  the  world,"  and 
through  the  kind  of  lives  we  live  make 
it  possible  to  break  down  that  which 
is  contrary  to  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

We  are  all  grateful  that  from  the 
Prophet  Joseph  came  also  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  with 
it  the  priesthood — the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  and  the  Aaronic  Priesthood — 
whereby  every  man  has  the  opportunity 
to  serve  God  as  his  servant  and  the 
opportunity  to  show  to  the  world  by  the 
way  we  live  here  that  we  have  the 
priesthood,  we  have  all  of  the  powers 
whereby  there  will  come  blessings  to 
all  the  people  in  every  land. 

I  have  a  prayer  in  my  heart  that 
sometime  the  day  will  come  when  our 
missionaries  will  have  the  opportunity 
to  go  into  Russia  and  preach  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  that  people 
and  say  to  them,  "The  weak  things  of 
the  world  shall  come  forth  and  break 
break  down  the  mighty  and  strong 
ones."  We  well  know  that  in  Russia 
there  are  mighty  and  strong  things,  but 
before  that  people  can  enjoy  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  some  of  that 
mightiness  and  some  of  those  strong 
things  must  be  broken  down,  that  the 
Russian  people  can  accept  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  enjoy  all 
of  the  blessings.  There  are  literally 
millions  there  who  desire  to  know  more 
about  the  Christ  and  be  taught  some- 
thing about  him.  That  opportunity  will 
come  to  this  people.  The  Church  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  the  priesthood, 
the  authority,  and  the  direction  from 


72  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  October  6 

on  high  to  preach  the  gospel  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  people. 

May  God  bless  every  one  of  us  that 
we  will  so  live  that  the  world  will  say 
as  an  individual  said  who  had  the 
privilege  of  going  through  the  beauti- 
ful temple  at  Los  Angeles:  "This  temple 
is  beautiful;  it  is  marvelous;  there  is 
something  about  it  that  is  different." 
And  then  she  said,  "The  Mormon  peo- 
ple have  something."  This  individual 
acknowledges  that  the  Mormon  people 
have  something  different,  and  we  do 
have  something  different.  We  have  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  we  have 
a  prophet;  we  have  the  same  organiza- 
tion that  existed  in  the  days  of  Peter, 
James,  and  John.   These  are  our  bless- 


Second  Day 

ings;  these  are  our  opportunities;  and 
I  humbly  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless 
us,  that  the  world  will  accept  us  and 
will  say  that  we  do  indeed  have  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I 
pray  this  will  be  the  blessing  and  the 
inspiration  of  each  and  every  one  of  us, 
in  his  holy  name.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Bishop 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Although  I  am  American  by  birth 
and  Scotch  by  marriage,  I  am 
.  Scandinavian  by  ancestry,  and  be- 
cause of  that  I  have  a  very  keen  appre- 
ciation of  the  beautiful  music  we  have 
heard  today  from  this  Scandinavian 
choir.  I  would  like  to  thank  them  as 
one  of  their  countrymen,  once  removed, 
for  the  beautiful  music  they  have  ren- 
dered. I  could  not  say  thank  you  to 
them  in  Danish  nor  in  Swedish  nor 
Norweigian,  but  I  can  express  some  ap- 
preciation in  four  foreign  words  I  have 
learned,  two  in  Spanish,  "mucho  gusto," 
and  two  in  German,  "genz  gut." 

I  was  recently  touring  one  of  the 
large  paper  mills  in  the  Pacific  North- 
west, and  as  I  stood  by  one  of  the 
tremendous  paper  making  machines, 
watching  those  whirring  wheels  and  the 
fast-moving  belts  and  feeling  the  tre- 
mendous heat  that  comes  from  those 
baking  ovens,  I  marveled  at  the  remark- 
able safety  record  of  that  great  mill. 
Then  I  was  told,  and  my  eyes  after- 
wards confirmed,  that  a  wonderful  safety 
program  was  carried  on  in  that  big 
mill,  so  that  very,  very  few  personal 
injuries  were  sustained  there. 

As  I  stood  by  that  giant  paper  making 
machine,  my  eyes  went  up  to  the  wall 
and  there  in  a  sign  about  six  feet 


square,  I  read  four  words.  The  first 
word  was  in  great  block  letters  and 
occupied  about  half  the  sign,  and  un- 
derneath appeared  the  other  three  words. 
The  sign  said,  "Think,  then  act  safely." 
I  learned  that  that  was  the  theme  of 
the  safety  program  in  that  tremendous 
mill  and  that  it  represented  the  whole 
idea  behind  the  fact  that  few  men  get 
hurt  there. 

But  as  I  stood  there  watching  that  ma- 
chine go,  and  then  glanced  up  at  that 
sign,  "Think,  then  act  safely,"  my  mind 
immediately  went  to  a  problem  which 
Brother  Spencer  W.  Kimball  and  I  face 
together,  and  which  was  coming  to  a 
focal  point  at  that  very  time,  because 
school  was  letting  out.  It  was  the 
latter  part  of  May,  and  I  knew  that  it 
would  not  be  long  until  hundreds  and 
hundreds  of  young  people  would  be  com- 
ing to  Salt  Lake  City  and  Ogden  and 
other  centers,  looking  for  jobs,  looking 
for  places  to  stay,  and  some  of  them 
getting  into  trouble.  I  thought  first  of 
all  of  the  parents  of  those  young  people 
and  wondered  exactly  what  they  were 
thinking  about.  Very,  very  few  of  the 
parents  of  those  hundreds  of  young 
people  ever  thought  of  coming  to  Salt 
Lake  City  or  to  Ogden  or  to  Los  Angeles 
or  to  San  Francisco  with  their  boys  and 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


73 


girls,  some  of  whom  were  fifteen  and 
sixteen  and  seventeen  years  of  age,  to 
help  them  find  a  good  family  with 
whom  to  live,  or  stay  with  them  until 
they  found  a  decent  job  in  decent  cir- 
cumstances with  decent  people. 

And  I  began  to  wonder  what  some  of 
those  parents  would  think  if  they  knew 
what  the  police  department  knows  about 
some  young  people  who  come  from 
smaller  communities  to  these  larger 
centers,  unaccompanied,  unchaperoned, 
unprotected,  entirely  on  their  own. 

Yes,  my  mind  did  go  back  to  that 
big  sign  in  the  paper  mill,  and  I  wished 
that  every  parent  of  every  boy  and  girl 
who  expects  to  leave  home  and  go  to 
a  larger  city  would  only  "Think,  then 
act  safely." 

I  thought,  too,  of  these  young  peo- 
ple. Many  of  them  had  no  idea  what 
they  were  getting  into  when  they  left 
home  and  came  to  the  larger  centers. 
They  had  absolutely  no  idea.  Some  of 
them  came  with  only  three  or  four  dol- 
lars in  their  pockets  and  thought  of 
course  the  minute  they  landed  here 
they  would  get  a  job  and  the  three  or 
four  dollars — in  one  case  a  girl  had 
six — the  three  or  four  to  six  dollars 
would  last  until  they  got  their  first  pay- 
day, and  then  they  would  be  on  easy 
street,  and  everything  would  go  fine. 

They  would  come  to  the  larger  city 
and  look  for  a  cheap  place  in  which 
to  live.  Some  of  them  were  really 
cheap,  on  Twenty-fifth  Street  or  on  West 
Second  South,  or  down  on  Canal  Street 
in  another  city.  They  could  not  afford 
much,  so  they  would  get  into  a  room- 
ing house  of  some  kind  and  think  they 
were  on  their  own  and  then  discover 
that  they  had  walked  into  tragedy.  Some 
of  the  young  people,  unfortunately, 
could  not  wait  to  leave  their  homes. 
They  wanted  to  break  away  and  get 
on  their  own,  and  they  did  not  realize 
what  it  meant  to  cut  loose  from  home, 
to  get  away  from  the  protection  of 
Mother  and  Dad,  and  get  into  a  strange 
city.  Although  there  are  many  good 
people  in  all  these  cities,  there  are  others 
who  are  cold  and  grasping  and  preda- 
tory, seeking  innocent  boys  and  girls 
to  get  them  in  their  trap. 

My  mind  went  to  the  bishops,  to  the 


stake  presidents.  I  still  wondered  why 
we  have  not  responded  more  readily  to 
the  appeal  of  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church  that  you  bishops,  you  counselors 
in  bishoprics,  you  members  of  stake 
presidencies,  and  you  parents  co-operate 
with  the  program  instituted  by  the 
Presidency  and  headed  by  Elder  Kim- 
ball in  an  effort  to  protect  your  young 
people  as  they  come  to  these  larger 
cities.  Will  you  not  co-operate,  will 
you  not  help?  If  you  parents  cannot 
control  your  children  and  they  must  go 
away,  if  instead  of  their  being  obedient 
to  you,  you  are  more  obedient  to  them, 
at  least  will  you  not  go  to  your  bishop 
and  talk  about  it,  and  then  let  the 
machinery  of  the  Church  help  you? 
Will  you  "think,  and  then  act  safely"? 

One  of  the  big  fears  I  have  in  con- 
nection with  these  young  people  coming 
to  the  larger  centers  is  that  so  many  of 
them  actually  want  to  break  away  from 
home,  cut  the  apron  strings,  so  to  speak. 
They  feel  that  they  are  self-sufficient; 
they  know  it  all;  Mother  and  Dad  are 
old-fashioned.  This  is  a  modern  world, 
and  they  want  to  be  modern;  they  want 
to  live  in  a  modern  way. 

I  ask  the  youth  of  the  Church,  do 
you  really  want  that?  Do  you  really 
want  to  cut  loose  from  the  protection  of 
home?  Think  of  all  that  home  means. 
Think  of  all  the  word  mother  means. 
Think  of  the  strong  protecting  power  of 
Dad.  Think  of  all  that  home  stands 
for.  And  then  think  of  the  opposite. 
Think  of  the  powers  that  are  destructive 
of  the  home.  And  think  of  the  powers 
that  work  contrary  to  the  advice  of 
Mother  and  Dad  and  ask  if  that  is  what 
you  want. 

O  youth  of  the  Church,  "think,  then 
act  safely." 

One  of  the  big  difficulties  about  the 
young  people  who  come  on  their  own 
and  have  cut  loose,  escaped  the  apron 
strings,  is  that  they  then  feel  so  free  and 
in  such  a  new  life,  they  want  also  to 
cut  loose  from  the  Church.  They  do 
not  go  to  the  meetings  any  more.  They 
go  to  other  places  and  meet  other  peo- 
ple, and  instead  of  Church  friends, 
clean,  fine  Latter-day  Saint  friends,  they 
pick  up  friends  of  the  other  side,  of  the 
lower  element. 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

A  question  was  asked  in  a  full  page 
newspaper  advertisement  to  which  I 
have  referred  many  times,  and  this  ques- 
tion was:  "How  would  you  like  to  live 
in  a  town  where  there  were  no 
churches?" 

Young  people,  will  you  think  of  the 
kind  of  folk  there  are  in  the  non-church- 
going  crowd?  Think  about  them  for  a 
moment.  Think  of  those  who  oppose 
the  Church  and  refuse  to  go  to  church. 
Think  of  the  kind  of  people  they  are 
and  the  kind  of  wives  and  husbands 
they  have  and  the  kind  of  homes  they 
develop,  and  think  also  of  the  kind  of 
children,  if  any,  they  have.  Is  that  the 
kind  of  life  you  want?  Is  that  to  be  de- 
sired above  the  beautiful  cleanliness  of 
fine  Latter-day  Saint  homes?  Is  that  to 
be  desired  over  the  marvelous  influence 
of  the  faithful  youth  of  the  Church? 

What  kind  of  crowd  are  you  going 
with?  What  kind  of  person  will  you 
marry?  You  will  marry  from  the  crowd 
you  go  with;  and  if  you  choose  the  non- 
churchgoing  crowd,  remember  that  is 
what  you  will  get,  and  all  it  includes. 
Think,  consider  it  carefully,  and  then 
act  safely. 

And  if  you  go  with  that  other  crowd, 
it  is  not  long  until  you  get  the  invita- 
tion to  take  a  smoke.  Before  you  take 
that  cigaret,  will  you  weigh  the  conse- 
quences, and  ask  yourself  if  it  is  the 
smoking  crowd  you  want  to  go  with,  if 
it  is  the  smoking  crowd  you  want  to 
marry  from?  And  will  you  remember 
that  the  cigaret  is  the  first  step  to  break- 
ing down  the  standards  and  the  barriers 
to  sin.  Do  you  want  to  let  down  the 
bulwark,  do  you  want  to  break  down  the 
dam  and  let  the  flood  in?  Weigh  all 
these  things  before  you  take  the  smoke. 
"Think,  then  act  safely." 

And  inevitably  there  will  come  the 
invitation  to  take  a  drink.  Before  you 
take  the  drink,  think  what  alcohol  does 
to  you.  I  am  not  just  talking  about  the 
possibility  of  alcoholism.  I  am  talking 
about  the  manner  in  which  alcohol  will 


Second  Day 

rob  you  of  your  self-control,  destroy  your 
ability  to  think  wisely,  and  put  you  in 
the  hands  of  unscrupulous  men  or 
women  who  will  rob  you  of  that  which 
is  more  precious  than  life  itself.  Do  you 
want  that?  Then  before  you  take  the 
drink,  really  think  it  over,  and  then 
act  safely. 

If  you  travel  with  that  kind  of  crowd, 
there  is  going  to  be  the  invitation  to 
neck  and  pet.  Do  you  want  that? 
What  will  be  your  response?  Will  you 
realize,  oh,  youth  of  the  Church,  that 
anyone  who  attempts  to  pet  with  you 
attempts  to  make  an  indecent  approach? 
Petting  is  indecent  and  sinful,  and  the 
person  who  attempts  to  pet  with  you  is 
himself  both  indecent  and  sinful  and 
is  likewise  lustful.  The  invitation  to 
pet,  remember,  so  often  ends  up  in  the 
invitation  to  something  worse.  The 
young  people  themselves  call  it,  "going 
all  the  way."  Is  that  what  you  want? 

Will  you  not  remember  that  in  the 
category  of  crime,  God  says  sex  sin  is 
next  to  murder?  Do  you  want  it?  It 
will  bring  broken  hearts  and  remorse 
and  misery  all  the  days  of  your  life 
and  only  the  most  sincere  repentance 
can  ever  wipe  it  out.  But  oh,  how  you 
will  suffer  as  many  have  suffered  the 
remorse  that  accompanies  such  a  terrible 
sin  as  that. 

Oh,  youth  of  the  Church,  oh,  parents, 
oh,  bishops,  who  have  charge  of  the 
youth,  and  you  MIA  workers  and  Sunday 
School  and  Primary,  you  Relief  Society 
mothers,  will  you  all  use  the  intelligence 
God  has  given  you,  will  you  think,  act 
safely,  and  live  your  religion? 

That  is  my  humble  prayer  for  us  all, 
in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the 
Church,  will  be  our  concluding  speaker. 


75 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


Icome  before  you,  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, with  a  sincere  desire  that  I  may 
have  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers  while  I  take  this  time,  for  I  am 
sure  that  I  need  it. 

I  wish  to  add  my  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  the  gospel  to  those  others  of 
this  conference,  for  I  know  of  a  surety 
of  the  divinity  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  that  it  has  been  restored  in 
this,  the  latter  day. 

I  enjoyed  Brother  [Adam  S.]  Ben- 
nion's  discussion  of  the  converts  in 
Europe,  which  brought  to  my  mind 
many  similar  experiences  I  have  through 
contacts  with  converts  to  the  Church. 
One  of  the  prominent  things  that  he 
told  us  was  the  thrill  and  the  joy  of 
these  young  people,  missionaries  and 
servicemen,  who  are  growing  in  their 
testimony,  that  the  testimony  of  the 
gospel  is  one  of  their  choicest  possessions 
and  one  of  the  things  that  brings  so 
much  joy  to  them.  Those  who  come 
to  my  office,  so  often  converts  to  the 
Church,  have  repeated  to  me  the  same 
stories  that  Brother  Bennion  repeated — 
that  life  has  just  begun  for  them. 

A  husband  and  wife  said  that  they 
felt  that  they  had  wasted  fifteen  years 
of  their  married  life,  for  now,  since 
they  had  joined  the  Church,  they  were 
just  beginning  to  live  again. 

It  is  not  so  much  the  words  that  they 
express,  but  it  is  the  thrill  and  the  joy 
that  lights  up  their  faces  when  they 
say  it,  in  all  sincerity — a  joy  that  can 
come  from  no  other  source. 

So,  as  this  knowledge  of  the  gospel 
is  one  of  the  most  important  things  for 
us  to  gain,  I  have  heard  many  times 
members  of  the  Church,  as  well  as 
investigators  or  non-members,  ask  the 
question,  "How  does  one  know?  How 
does  one  get  a  testimony  of  the  gospel?" 
The  Lord  has  told  us,  and  it  has  been 
repeated  here  before  in  this  conference: 

There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in 
heaven  before  the  foundations  of  this  world, 
upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

And  when  we  obtain  any  blessings  from 
God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon 
which  it  is  predicated.  (D  &  C  130:20.) 


If  we  want  the  blessing  of  a  testi- 
mony of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
want  to  know,  even  if  we  are  just  in- 
vestigators and  want  to  know  which  is 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  then  we  have 
to  find  out  what  that  law  is  and  fulfil 
it. 

Moroni  gives  us  the  key  to  that  law. 
As  he  was  preparing  the  records  which 
were  given  into  his  keeping,  and  he 
was  finishing  his  part  of  them  before 
putting  them  away  for  some  future 
date — he  knew  not  when  it  would 
come — he  wrote  in  his  record: 

Behold,  I  would  exhort  you  that  when  ye 
shall  read  these  things,  if  it  be  wisdom  in 
God  ye  should  read  them,  that  ye  would 
remember  how  merciful  the  Lord  hath  been 
unto  the  children  of  men,  from  the  creation 
of  Adam  even  down  unto  the  time  that  ye 
shall  receive  these  things,  and  ponder  it  in 
your  hearts. 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things, 
I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  ask  God, 
the  .  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ, 
if  these  things  are  not  true;  and  if  ye 
shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real 
intent,  having  faith  in  Christ,  he  will 
manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye 
may  know  the  truth  of  all  things. 

And  whatsoever  thing  is  good  is  just  and 
true;  wherefore,  nothing  that  is  good  denieth 
the  Christ,  but  acknowledgeth  that  he  is. 

And  ye  may  know  that  he  is,  by  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost;  wherefore  I  would  ex- 
hort you  that  ye  deny  not  the  power  of 
God;  for  he  worketh  by  power,  according 
to  the  faith  of  the  children  of  men,  the 
same  today  and  tomorrow,  and  forever. 
(Moroni  10:3-7.) 

Now  he  has  given  us  two  thoughts, 
primarily,  in  this  record:  first,  "ask  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of 
Christ."  And  second  he  said,  ".  .  .  he 
will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you, 
by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  And 
by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may 
know  the  truth  of  all  things."  So  if  we 
are  going  to  find  the  law  by  which  we 
may  gain  a  knowledge,  we  have  the 
key  to  it  here;  first,  we  must  do  some- 
thing ourselves,  we  must  ask  for  it,  and, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


76 

Saturday,  October  6 

second,  then  we  will  be  given  that 
through  the  Spirit. 

In  section  eighty-nine  there  is  an- 
other key.  The  promise  that  is  given 
there  is:  , 

"And  all  saints  who  remember  to 
keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,"  and 
then  the  Lord  gives  us  a  promise  of 
health  and  adds,  ". . .  shall  find  wisdom 
and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even 
hidden  treasures."  (D  &  C  89:18-19.) 

If  we  will  learn  the  law  of  obedience 
and  take  that  first  step  ourselves,  the 
Lord  will  prompt  us  and  give  us  that 
knowledge  through  the  Spirit. 

The  Lord  has  said:  "Ask,  and  it  shall 
be  given  you;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find: 
knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you." 
(Matt.  7:7.)  If  we  do  not  seek,  if  we 
do  not  ask,  if  we  do  not  knock,  then  we 
cannot  receive  that  knowledge. 

In  cottage  meetings  and  other  gather- 
ings where  the  gospel  is  proclaimed, 
all  do  not  receive  it  the  same;  yet  the 
same  thing  is  taught  to  all.  There  are 
some  in  the  group  who  will  apply  that 
law  by  which  that  blessing  may  be  re- 
ceived, that  of  putting  themselves  in 
tune  with  the  Spirit,  just  like  a  large 
radio  transmitting  station.  The  Lord's 
spirit  is  with  us  all.  The  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  being  proclaimed,  but 
if  we  do  not  put  ourselves  in  tune,  we 
do  not  get  the  reception.  If  we  do  not 
get  the  reception,  it  is  not  the  fault  of 
the  broadcasting  station,  it  is  the  fault 
of  the  receiver,  and  we  are  the  receiver; 
we  must  put  our  spirit  in  tune. 

The  soul  is  made  up  of  body  and 
spirit,  and  as  we  get  in  tune  with  the 
Spirit,  then  we  receive  that  testimony 
by  the  Spirit. 

We  were  reminded  last  Thursday  in 
our  meeting  in  the  temple  prior  to  this 
conference  that  the  greatest  testimony  is 
that  which  comes  and  testifies  of  the 
Spirit.  We  cannot  always  trust  what 
we  see  and  what  we  hear,  but  we  can 
always  trust  that  prompting  of  the 
Spirit  that  comes  to  us,  which  declares 
to  us  that  which  is  truth;  and  by  that 
power  we  get  our  strength  and  testi- 
mony of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  had  to  take 
that  first  step  and  ask  for  knowledge. 


Second  Day 

He  read  in  James  that  if  ye  lack  wis- 
dom and  shall  ask,  ye  shall  receive.  He 
took  the  words  of  James  to  heart  and 
went  into  the  grove  of  trees  and  knelt 
and  asked  for  that  knowledge  which  he 
received.  There  the  Prophet  saw  and 
heard,  and  surely  it  was  testified  to  him 
of  the  Spirit  that  this  was  true  and 
that  these  things  which  he  experienced 
were  true,  by  which  he  received  a  true 
knowledge  of  God  the  Father  and  of  the 
Son,  so  that  he  knew  that  Jesus  Christ 
lived,  and  that  the  Father  lived,  and 
knew  that  he  had  truly  seen  a  vision, 
as  we  have  heard  testified  here  today. 

So  I  say,  let  us  put  ourselves  in  tune. 
If  there  are  members  in  the  Church  who 
are  uncertain,  who  are  lacking  in  that 
strength  of  a  testimony,  ask,  and  ye  shall 
receive,  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  you.  If  you  will  put  yourself  in 
tune  that  your  spirit  shall  be  in  tune 
with  the  Spirit  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  then 
you  shall  receive  a  knowledge  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  be  with 
us  all,  that  we  may  all  enjoy  that 
prompting  of  the  Spirit  and  be  able  to 
assist  others  as  a  result  of  that  knowl- 
edge given  to  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  has  just  concluded  speaking. 

After  the  singing  and  the  benediction, 
this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  until 
7:00  o'clock  this  evening,  when  the 
General  Priesthood  Meeting  of  the 
Church  will  be  held  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle.  Only  those  holding  the 
Priesthood  are  invited  to  be  present. 
Persons  not  holding  the  priesthood  will 
kindly  refrain  from  attempting  to  enter 
the  building.  This  Priesthood  Session 
will  not  be  broadcast,  excepting  in  the 
overflow  meetings  that  have  already 
been  appointed,  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  Barratt  Hall,  and  by  direct  wire 
over  a  public  address  system  to  members 
of  the  Priesthood  assembled,  in  addition 
to  the  Barratt  Hall  and  Assembly  Hall, 
in  81  other  Church  buildings  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Colorado,  New  York,  Washing- 
ton, Oregon,  Arizona,  Wyoming,  Ne- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


77 


vada,  Illinois,  New  Mexico,  Canada,  and 
California. 

The  regular  session  at  ten  o'clock 
Sunday  Morning  will  be  televised  over 
KSL-TV,  Channel  5,  and  broadcast  over 
Radio  Station  KSL,  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  11  radio  stations  in 
Utah,  Idaho,  Colorado,  and  Nevada, 
and  by  special  arrangement  over  13 
television  stations  in  Utah,  Colorado, 
Nevada,  California,  Oregon,  Washing- 
ton, and  Arizona. 

The  Church-of-the-Air  Broadcast  will 
be  over  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System  tomorrow  morning  from  7:30  to 
8  o'clock.  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  be  the  speaker. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  will 
be  from  9:30  to  10  a.m.  tomorrow.  Those 
desiring  to  attend  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  at 
9:15  a.m.  It  is  requested  that  the  audi- 
ence during  the  broadcast  refrain  from 
making  any  disturbance,  or  whispering. 
Large  crowds  will  undoubtedly  be  wait- 
ing outside  the  closed  doors  and  when 
opened  there  is  usually  a  rush  by  those 
outside  to  get  good  seats.  We  plead 
with  those  thus  standing  to  be  courteous 
and  considerate  one  of  another.  Avoid 


pushing,  crowding,  if  you  please.  Courte- 
sy is  a  great  virtue.  Let  us  show  it  one 
to  another  and  especially  to  our  visitors 
who  are  within  the  city's  gates. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Combined  Scandi- 
navian Choirs  under  the  direction  of 
Brother  R.  Hulbert  Keddington,  with 
Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ. 

I  feel  with  Elder  Mark  Petersen — I 
wish  I  could  thank  them  in  the  native 
language  of  their  parents.  I  can  say, 
"Tak  for  sist."  But  best  of  all,  thank 
you  for  this  excellent  service  and  in- 
spiring singing  and  God  bless  you. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "Almighty 
God  of  Our  Fathers,"  and  after  the 
benediction  by  Elder  Alan  B.  Blood, 
president  of  the  Davis  Stake,  this  Con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  tomor- 
row morning  at  10  o'clock  for  the  gen- 
eral public. 


The  Combined  Scandinavian  Choirs 
sang  the  number,  "Almighty  God  of  Our 
Fathers,"  after  which  the  closing  prayer 
was  offered  by  Elder  Alan  B.  Blood, 
president  of  the  Davis  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7:00  p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Saturday  evening,  October  6  at  7:00  p.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  meeting. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus, 
with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting 
and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ, 
furnished  the  choral  music  for  this  meet- 
ing. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  fifth  session  of  the  127th 
Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

You  will  be  interested  to  know  that 
these  services  are  being  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall, 
over  a  public  address  system,  and  in 
addition  are  being  broadcast  by  direct 
wire  over  a  public  address  system  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  assembled  in 


81  other  Church  buildings  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Colorado,  New  York,  Washing- 
ton, Oregon,  Arizona,  Wyoming,  Ne- 
vada, Illinois,  New  Mexico,  Canada, 
and  California. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Men's  Chorus,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  as  director,  and  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  organ.  We  shall 
begin  these  services  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  Men's  Chorus  singing,  "I  Know 
That  My  Redeemer  Lives." 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Leonard  E. 
Graham,  president  of  the  East  Rigby 
Stake,  will  offer  the  invocation. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
sang  the  hymn,  "I  Know  That  My  Re- 
deemer Lives." 

Elder  Leonard  E.  Graham,  president 
of  the  East  Rigby  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 


78 

Saturday,  October  6 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Leonard  E.  Graham,  president 
of  the  East  Rigby  Stake,  offered  the  in- 
vocation. 

We  have  received  word  that  hun- 
dreds are  on  the  grounds  who  cannot 
get  in  any  of  the  buildings  here,  and 
they  have  requested  that  the  speakers 
be  turned  on  out  there  so  that  they  may 
hear.  We  think  that  if  you  do  not 
turn  them  on  to  blare  the  proceedings 
over  the  city,  that  you  may  let  the 
members  out  on  the  grounds  gather 
around  the  loud  speakers  and  participate 
in  the  meeting. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
will  now  sing,  "My  Blessing  Fall  On 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

This  Fair  World,"  directed  by  Elder 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 


Singing  by  the  Chorus,  "My  Blessing 
Fall  on  This  Fair  World." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  evening  will  be 
Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  By  request  and  appoint- 
ment he  will  follow  up  instructions 
given  six  months  ago  and  continue  the 
plan  which  was  then  presented  for  the 
help  and  guidance,  particularly  of  the 
young  people  of  the  Church. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Brethren,  two  or  three  weeks  ago 
the  Deseret  News  ran  an  editorial, 
the  caption  of  which  asked  the 
question,  "Too  much  Word  of  Wis- 
dom?" It  was  a  great  surprise  to  me  to 
see  some  of  the  letters  that  came  in 
response  to  that  little  editorial.  Ob- 
viously the  editorial  defended  the  posi- 
tion that  we  could  not  say  too  much 
about  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  It  is  all 
important.  We  cannot  be  too  clean  in 
the  work  of  the  Lord.  But  it  was  amaz- 
ing that  some  apparently  good  Latter- 
day  Saints,  writing  in  would  insist  that 
we  did  say  too  much  about  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  that  it  did  not  really  matter 
if  people  smoked  a  little — after  all  it 
was  the  popular  thing  these  days  and 
if  young  people  are  going  to  get  along 
well  with  their  crowds  at  school,  they 
ought  to  do  like  the  other  fellow  does. 
It  was  a  great  surprise  to  me  that  Latter- 
day  Saints,  raised  in  the  Church,  would 
take  this  position. 

We  have  had  other  reactions,  occa- 
sionally, which  have  rather  frightened 
me.  I  was  talking  with  one  of  our 
brethren  right  recently  and  he  said, 
"My  little  five  year  old  girl  was  watch- 
ing television  and  was  watching  the 
Lucky  Strike  program.  When  the  pro- 
gram was  over,  she  turned  to  Dad,  and 
said,  'Daddy,  when  I  grow  up  I  am  go- 


ing to  smoke  Lucky  Strikes.' "  It  turned 
this  man  pale  as  he  thought  about  the 
effect  of  the  advertising  upon  his  little 
girl. 

The  world  today  is  dramatizing  im- 
modesty, dramatizing  the  use  of  cigar- 
ettes, dramatizing  the  use  of  liquor  to 
a  point  where  they  are  making  it  seem 
that  it  is  the  popular  thing,  that  if  you 
are  going  to  get  along  well  in  the  world, 
then  you  must  indulge  in  these  things. 

How  are  we  going  to  counteract  this 
sort  of  thing,  I  ask  you?  The  only  way 
is  to  have  a  positive  approach  and  move 
forward  and  maintain  our  standards 
and  use  every  legitimate  device  we  can 
to  promote  wholesome  thinking  in  re- 
gard to  the  vicious  things  that  are  being 
held  out  to  our  young  people  today.  It 
was  with  this  thought  in  mind  that  the 
First  Presidency  endorsed  a  suggestion 
from  the  General  Priesthood  Committee 
of  which  Brother  Lee  is  chairman,  sug- 
gesting that  we  use  the  devices  of  ad- 
vertising to  teach  the  positive  side  of 
clean  living  as  a  means  of  counteract- 
ing the  same  type  of  approach  used  on 
the  other  side. 

We  were  very  grateful  for  the  won- 
derful encouragement  we  received  from 
the  First  Presidency  on  this  matter. 
They  have  given  it  their  whole  hearted 
support  and  they  are  hoping  that  the 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


79 


entire  Church  will  likewise  support  it. 
We  have  been  getting  wonderful  sup- 
port from  many  sources.  We  have  had 
hundreds  of  letters  come  in  from  bish- 
ops and  others  telling  us  of  their  reac- 
tion to  the  use  of  the  posters  and  the 
small  cards  which  have  been  distributed 
now  for  several  months,  and  which  we 
first  announced  to  you  here  six  months 
ago. 

One  bishop  writing  under  date  of  day 
before  yesterday,  October  4th,  says  this: 

"Those  posters  for  youth  along  with 
the  smaller  individual  corresponding 
cards,  are  masterpieces.  There  is  so 
much  psychology  leading  youth  away 
from  correct  principles  that  my  heart 
leaps  for  joy  that  our  Church  is  using 
powerful  ways  and  means  to  strengthen 
youth.  May  the  Lord  continue  to  bless 
you  with  power." 

Another  bishop  writing  under  date 
of  September  30th,  sent  us  a  letter 
which  is  duplicated  by  scores  and  scores 
of  others  which  have  come  during  the 
last  couple  of  months.  He  writes: 

"We  feel  favorably  impressed  with  the 
posters  which  we  have  received.  They 
are  dignified  and  attractive.  I  notice 
that  our  ward  members  both  the  youth 
and  their  parents,  stop  and  take  time 
to  read  the  message  given  on  them,  and 
twice  I  have  had  young  persons  who 
were  absent  at  the  time  the  cards  were 
given  out,  come  to  me  before  I  had  the 
opportunity  to  go  to  them  and  ask  if 
I  had  a  card  for  them.  I  hear  the  young 
folks  talking  among  themselves  about 
the  message  on  the  card  and  I  feel  that 
they  appreciate  the  deep  significance  of 
the  thought  given.  In  behalf  of  my 
own  sons  and  the  young  people  of  this 
ward,  I  wish  to  thank  you  brethren  for 
this  program.  I  feel  convinced  that  it 
will  prove  to  be  very  worthwhile  and 
of  great  value  as  an  aid  to  the  parents 
and  teachers  of  the  youth  of  the 
Church." 

In  the  middle  of  September  we  re- 
ceived the  first  mailing  piece  from  one 
of  the  young  people  themselves.  We 
have  been  hearing  since,  but  this  was 
the  first.  It  was  a  little  postcard  I  was 
so  proud  of  it  I  sent  it  down  to  the 
Presidency's  office  because  I  wanted 
them  to  see  it: 

"To  Whom  It  May  Concern"— by 
the  way,  it  was  addressed  merely  to  the 


L.D.S.  Church  Headquarters,  and  gives 
the  address— "To  Whom  It  May  Con- 
cern: (and  as  I  say  this  comes  from  a 
young  lady) — What  a  refreshing  expe- 
rience to  pick  up  a  card,  "healthy,  hap- 
py, lucky  you."  Through  such  a  positive 
approach  youth  will  react  positively  be- 
cause it  shows  you  really  do  have  faith 
in  us.  It  is  really  good  to  see  things 
like  these  posters  rising  away  from 
'thou  shalt  not.'  Thanks  for  your  faith 
in  us.  Sincerely" — and  then  the  name 
is  given. 

Brethren,  the  program  as  we  have  it 
under  way,  is  doing  a  great  deal  of  good. 
The  program  becomes  a  device  in  your 
hands  for  making  your  work  easier.  It 
is  a  program  likewise  which  may  touch 
the  hearts  of  young  people  who  may 
not  be  touched  in  other  ways  as  you 
would  like  to  have  them.  We  believe 
that  this  program  will  strengthen  faith 
and  give  to  our  young  people  an  appre- 
ciation of  the  worthwhileness  of  living 
a  clean  life. 

Many,  many  of  the  wards  and  the 
stakes  have  given  us  100%  cooperation 
in  this  matter,  such  as  is  reflected  in  the 
letters  of  these  bishops,  and  their  efforts 
are  surely  appreciated  as  is  suggested 
in  this  letter.  But,  unfortunately,  breth- 
ren, six  months  after  we  have  announced 
the  program,  we  still  have  some  wards 
in  some  stakes  where  nothing  has  been 
done.  It  makes  us  sad  to  think  that 
young  people  are  going  astray  who 
might  be  saved  if  only  this  device,  among 
other  things,  were  handed  to  them.  But 
instead  of  being  distributed  the  cards 
and  the  posters  are  safely  tucked  away 
in  the  bishop's  office. 

Bishops,  you  cannot  afford  to  be  with- 
out this  program.  Your  young  people 
need  it.  We  hold  you  responsible  for 
putting  it  into  effect  in  your  wards.  We 
ask  that  your  Aaronic  Priesthood  or- 
ganization take  care  of  the  distribution 
of  the  little  cards  for  the  boys.  The 
bishopric  is  in  charge  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  therefore,  it  is  their  personal 
responsibility  to  see  that  each  boy  from 
twelve  to  twenty  receives  one  of  these 
little  cards. 

I  think  most  of  you  are  familiar  with 
them. 

We  ask  that  the  L.D.S.  girls  commit- 
tee in  each  ward,  made  up  of  Y.W.M.I.A. 
workers,  distribute  the  cards  to  the  girls 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

of  the  ward  between  the  ages  of  twelve 
and  twenty-five.  Yet  you,  the  bishopric, 
are  advisers  to  these  M.I.A.  sisters,  so  it 
is  in  your  hands  again  to  see  that  there 
is  a  full  distribution  of  the  cards  to  the 
girls,  also. 

Now,  there  is  the  large  poster.  You 
are  familiar  with  that.  It  comes  in  two 
pieces.  One  is  the  principal  picture 
bearing  the  main  caption,  with  our 
theme  which  is  "Be  Honest  With  Your- 
self." And  then  we  have  the  side  piece, 
you  remember,  which  gives  a  message. 
It  is  hoped  that  that  poster  and  the  side 
piece  will  be  properly  shown  in  a  dis- 
play case  in  a  prominent  place  in  your 
foyer  or  other  part  of  your  building,  if 
you  do  not  have  a  foyer,  which  will  be 
prominent  enough  so  that  people  will 
see  it. 

Many  there  are  who  stop  and  look 
at  the  picture  and  admire  the  artistry 
and  catch  the  message,  whether  it  be 
"Virtue  is  its  own  reward,"  or  "Happy, 
Healthy,  Lucky  You,"  or  "Be  Honest 
With  Yourself."  And  many  having  seen 
the  picture  and  the  caption  have  paused 
to  read  the  entire  message  on  the  side. 
But  we  have  found  that  there  are  some 
of  these  display  cases  which  have  been 
placed  in  such  a  manner  that  they  are 
really  hidden  away.  I  have  been  in 
some  buildings  where  I  actually  have 
had  to  search  for  them.  In  one  dark 
corner,  behind  the  door,  I  found  one 
of  these  display  cases,  and  because  the 
people  come  in  and  out  when  the  door 
is  opened,  the  door  effectively  hid  the 
display  case.  Nobody  ever  got  to  see 
the  poster  except  the  janitor  who  looked 
at  it  when  he  locked  the  door  after 
everyone  had  gone  out. 

Do  you  suppose  that  Lucky  Strike 
cigarettes  would  ever  put  an  advertise- 
ment in  a  place  like  that?  Ask  yourself 
now.  You  are  opposing  them  in  trying 
to  obtain  the  interest  of  that  boy  or  girl, 
are  you  not?  You  are  in  competition 
with  them  in  a  very  real  sense.  The  boy 
or  the  girl  is  going  to  look  at  the  at- 
tractive ads  of  the  cigarette  or  will  look 
at  the  attractive  ad  of  the  Church.  Lucky 
Strike,  Camel,  Old  Gold,  will  never 
hide  their  ads  away  where  you  cannot 
see  them.  They  are  on  the  most  promi- 
nent billboards  and  they  use  the  best 
radio  programs  you  can  find  anywhere. 
Why  should  we  hide  our  light  under  a 
bushel? 


Second  Day 

Brethren,  bring  out  these  posters  where 
people  can  see  them  and  read  them. 
Frame  them  in  an  attractive  way  because 
the  display  is  part  of  it,  I  would  say 
almost  half  of  it. 

If  you  do  not  have  these  posters  dis- 
played in  your  foyers  by  this  time,  will 
you  in  the  spirit  of  our  campaign  be 
honest  with  yourself,  be  honest  with 
your  young  people,  and  adequately  and 
beautifully  display  these  posters  where 
everyone  who  passes  by  will  see  them 
and  enjoy  them? 

Stake  presidents,  you  preside  over  the 
stake,  and  in  that  respect  you  preside 
over  all  of  the  wards  and  branches  in 
your  stake.  Will  each  stake  president 
take  it  upon  himself  as  a  special  assign- 
ment to  go  to  every  ward  in  his  stake 
within  the  next  week  and  look  for  the 
posters  and  see  how  they  are  displayed, 
and  if  they  are  not  will  you,  as  a  stake 
president  use  your  influence  to  have  the 
posters  well  displayed?  It  is  your  re- 
sponsibility, stake  presidents,  to  see  that 
your  stake  functions.  Every  ward  is  a 
part  of  your  stake.  Without  them  you 
have  no  stake.  This  is  part  of  the 
Church  program.  As  presidents  of  stakes 
and  as  bishops  of  wards,  when  we  re- 
ceive our  appointments,  we  agree  to 
accept  the  responsibility  accompanying 
those  appointments  and  now  part  of 
that  responsibility  is  the  proper  display 
of  those  posters  and  the  proper  distribu- 
tion of  these  little  cards. 

I  would  like  to  ask  every  bishop,  are 
you  sure  that  all  the  young  people  of  the 
proper  age  groups  in  your  ward  are 
receiving  the  individual  cards  with  our 
specialized  message.  Only  yesterday  I 
talked  with  the  father  of  a  young  man, 
sixteen  or  seventeen  years  of  age,  who 
lives  in  one  of  the  most  progressive  stakes 
in  the  Church  right  here  in  Salt  Lake 
City.  I  asked  if  his  son  had  seen  any 
of  these  cards  yet,  and  he  said,  "No,  he 
has  not  seen  them."  I  know  the  son 
goes  to  Church  regularly,  but  there  has 
been  no  distribution  of  the  cards.  We 
are  now  in  the  midst  of  mailing  out 
the  third  set  of  cards  and  this  boy  has 
not  yet  received  the  first. 

That  reminds  me  of  some  of  the  diffi- 
culty we  had  during  the  World  War. 
The  First  Presidency  authorized  our 
distribution  of  a  little  pamphlet,  a 
midget  sized  Church  News,  for  all  of 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


81 


the  service  men.  It  was  disheartening 
indeed  to  find  these  packages,  sometimes 
with  dust  on  them,  piled  up  one  above 
the  other  on  top  of  the  bishop's  desk. 

Brethren,  souls  are  too  precious  to 
allow  our  successful  devices  to  be  unused. 

Do  you  have  some  kind  of  a  check 
up  system  to  insure  full  distribution  of 
these  cards?  A  list  of  names  might  well 
be  kept  by  both  M.I.A.  and  Aaronic 
Priesthood  workers,  including  all  of  the 
young  people  of  the  ages  mentioned, 
whether  they  come  out  to  the  meetings 
or  not,  whether  they  are  on  your  roll 
books  or  not.  If  they  are  members  of  the 
Church  they  should  receive  the  cards, 
no  matter  how  inactive  these  boys  or 
girls  might  be.  If  a  list  of  these  young 
people's  names  is  maintained,  the  names 
could  easily  be  checked  off  as  a  card 
is  delivered  to  each  boy  or  girl  per- 
sonally. 

We  hope  that  you  will  not  merely 
distribute  the  cards  to  the  young  people 
who  come  to  the  meetings  and  believe 
that  the  job  is  done.  If  necessary,  have 
your  committee  deliver  the  cards  to 
the  young  people  in  their  very  homes. 
Those  who  do  not  attend  our  meetings 
may  well  be  in  the  greatest  need  of  the 
message  we  have  for  them. 

We  would  like  to  suggest  to  you, 
Bishops,  that  you  popularize  this  pro- 
gram in  your  wards.  In  your  Sacrament 
meetings,  you,  yourselves,  may  well  call 
attention  of  the  Ward  membership  to 
the  posters  in  the  foyer,  inviting  all  to 
pause  and  read.  You  may  also  do  well 
to  encourage  parents  to  mention  the 
cards  and  the  posters  in  their  family 
hour  gatherings  in  the  home.  Boys  and 
girls  might  well  be  invited  by  their 
parents  to  read  and  discuss  the  message 
on  the  cards  as  part  of  the  program  for 
the  family  hour  in  the  home,  or  these 
cards  may  be  read  and  discussed  over 
the  dinner  table  in  the  evening. 

Young  people  should  be  encouraged 
to  save  the  cards  and  place  them  upon 
the  dresser  or  the  walls  or  on  the  desks 
in  their  bedrooms.  When  these  young 
people  are  assigned  two  and  a  half  min- 
ute talks  in  Sunday  School,  or  short  talks 
in  other  meetings,  the  cards  may  well 
provide  inspirational  subject  matter 
which  will  be  of  great  assistance  to  them. 

Since  the  cards  are  distributed  only 
once  in  two  months,  is  there  any  good 


reason  why  a  boy  or  girl  may  not  be 
invited  to  give  a  brief  talk  on  the  subject 
treated  on  the  current  card  during  some 
Sacrament  meeting  in  the  Ward? 
Brethren,  popularize  this  program. 

The  cigarette  companies  popularize 
their  Cigarettes,  and  the  immodest  styles 
emanating  from  Hollywood  and  Paris 
are  certainly  popularized  by  the  best 
advertising  devices  that  we  have  in  the 
United  States.  Then  should  we  not 
popularize  our  program  of  modesty  and 
cleanliness? 

I  would  like  to  ask,  what  do  you  do 
with  the  big  posters  which  have  been 
on  display  when  you  replace  them  with 
new  ones?  Do  you  just  discard  them 
and  throw  them  away,  or  do  you  save 
them  for  appropriate  use  at  other  times, 
possibly  at  young  people's  meetings  or 
socials  in  the  ward.  It  might  be  that 
some  of  your  own  young  people  would 
like  to  take  these  posters  home  as  their 
own  prized  possessions.  Some  do.  Or 
they  might  be  awarded  for  some  special- 
ly outstanding  service,  or  as  a  mark  of 
appreciation.  Or  these  posters  might 
be  saved  by  the  young  people's  commit- 
tees of  the  ward  and  displayed  to  ad- 
vantage in  a  fireside  meeting  on  Sun- 
day evening.  Or  several  of  them  shown 
together  would  make  a  very  impressive 
display  at  a  Gold  and  Green  Ball  or  a 
young  people's  banquet. 

As  you  know,  brethren,  the  theme  of 
the  program  is  "Be  Honest  With  Your- 
self." We  do  ask  you,  as  the  leaders  of 
the  wards  and  the  stakes,  to  be  thor- 
oughly honest  with  your  own  selves  in 
the  conduct  of  this  program.  And  be 
honest  with  the  young  people  of  your 
wards  and  give  them  this  added  help 
in  their  fight  against  sin.  Be  honest 
with  the  parents  of  the  youth  of  Zion 
and  give  to  them  this  potent  aid  in 
teaching  their  children  the  value  of 
clean  living.  Be  honest  with  yourselves 
in  getting  the  most  out  of  the  program 
which  is  designed  to  make  your  work 
easier,  to  make  righteousness  more  at- 
tractive to  the  youth  of  your  wards  and 
stakes,  and  to  help  build  faith  and 
testimony  in  the  hearts  of  all. 

So,  brethren,  let  us  be  honest  with 
ourselves,  let  us  enter  into  the  spirit  of 
this  work,  let  us  make  this  program 
succeed. 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  October  6  Second  Day 

That  we  may  do  this  is  my  earnest  in  singing,  "I'll  Go  Where  You  Want 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Me  to  Go."  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
Christ.  Amen.  will  lead  us. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

I  will  go  where  you  want  me  to  go, 
I  will  say  what  you  want  me  to  say, 
I  will  be  what  you  want  me  to  be. 

The  congregation  will  now  join  the 
Men's  Chorus  of  our  Tabernacle  Choir 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"I'll  Go  Where  You  Want  Me  To  Go." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  speak  to  us. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REl 

Second  Counselor  in 

My  brethren:  We  seem  to  be  living 
in  an  age  of  ideologies  of  various 
kinds.  The  things  that  used  to 
influence  men  and  nations  and  lead 
them  into  conflict, — ordinary  ambition, 
thirst  for  territory,  thirst  for  power,  still 
remain,  but  there  have  come  to  super- 
sede them  certain  ideologies  which  move 
nations,  sometimes  in  rebellion  against 
the  past,  sometimes  to  build  up  new  con- 
cepts and  new  rules. 

One  of  these  ideologies  which  is  per- 
haps politically  not  so  important  but 
which  socially  is  most  important,  has 
been  talked  about  tonight  by  Brother 
Mark  E.  Petersen, — the  ideology  which 
lowers  moral  standards  that  we  have 
been  taught  in  the  past  to  regard  as 
sacred.  I  endorse  all  that  Brother  Mark 
has  said  tonight  and  urge  you  bishops, 
presidents  of  stakes,  and  heads  of  house- 
holds, to  follow  his  advice. 

I  am  going  to  talk  tonight,  or  plan 
to,  about  another  ideology,  and  I  should 
like,  in  all  humility  on  my  part,  to  have 
the  assistance  of  your  faith  and  prayers. 
I  shall  try  not  to  be  too  long;  it  may  be 
I  shall  be  a  bit  dull.  I  am  going  to 
read  in  part,  perhaps  a  good  part,  what 
I  say. 

The  ideology  I  have  in  mind  is  what 
I  might  call  the  ideology  of  equality. 
We  have  a  sort  of  feeling  about  our  own 
people  in  our  own  nation  and  the  na- 
tions of  the  world,  that  everybody  is 
equal  to  everybody  else.  You  remember 
that  the  Declaration  of  Independence 
said,  "We  hold  these  truths  to  be  self- 
evident,  that  all  men  are  created  equal, 
that  they  are  endowed  by  their  Creator 
with  certain  unalienable  Rights,  that 


FBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

the  First  Presidency 

among  these  are  Life,  Liberty  and  the 
pursuit  of  Happiness." 

Those  phrases  seem  to  have  caught  the 
imagination  of  people  of  various  kinds. 
I  am  not  going  to  talk  about  them,  some- 
body would  accuse  me  of  talking  poli- 
tics, but  I  have  this  kind  of  a  feeling 
about  them, — that  they  are  not  intended 
to  suggest  that  force  shall  be  brought 
to  bear  upon  me,  if  I  be  a  law-abiding 
man,  tending  my  own  business,  to  take 
away  a  part  of  my  life  to  give  to  some- 
body else  who  thinks  he  would  like 
some  of  it.  I  feel  the  same  way  about 
liberty.  I  feel  the  same  way  about  pur- 
suit of  happiness.  That  is  my  right  as  a 
member  of  the  body  politic,  and  just  be- 
cause somebody  else  thinks  he  would 
like  some  of  my  happiness,  I  not  im- 
posing upon  him  or  taking  anything 
away  from  him,  that  I  should  be  com- 
pelled to  bestow  upon  him  some  of  my 
happiness,  is  just  beyond  me. 

Now,  I  want  to  talk  tonight  about 
what  I  will  call  spiritual  relativity.  I 
do  not  know  anything  about  what  scien- 
tific relativity  means,  but  I  can  get  some 
idea  about  what  I  am  going  to  talk 
about.  I  am  going  to  speak  from  the 
Book  of  Abraham,  primarily,  and  my 
speaking  will  consist  principally  in 
reading,  in  the  first  part  of  what  I  say, 
with  perhaps  an  interpolation  of  a  re- 
mark here  and  there. 

If  you  will  read  the  third  chapter  of 
the  Book  of  Abraham,  you  will  find  that 
the  Lord  is  giving  instructions  to  Abra- 
ham about  various  matters,  including 
matters  of  astronomy,  and  then  the 
Lord  begins  to  apply  those  matters  of 
astronomy  of  which  he  has  been  talking, 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R. 


83 


where  he  has  one  planet  and  then  an- 
other greater  than  that,  and  then  that 
there  shall  be  one  greater  than  that,  and 
he  begins  to  apply  that  to  individuals: 

"19.  And  the  Lord  said  unto  me: 
These  two  facts  do  exist,  that  there  are 
two  spirits,  one  being  more  intelligent 
than  the  other;  there  shall  be  another 
more  intelligent  than  they;  I  am  the 
Lord  thy  God,  I  am  more  intelligent 
than  they  all." 

Now,  I  am  not  going  to  try  to  tell  you 
what  that  principle  means,  or  where  it 
leads;  all  I  want  to  get  out  of  that  is 
that  here  are  three  intelligences,  spirits, 
and  that  they  are  not  equal,  even  the 
two  are  unequal.  There  is  the  one, 
there  is  the  second  more  intelligent  than 
the  first,  and  there  is  the  third  more 
intelligent  than  the  other  two. 

I  like  to  think  of  that,  as  I  have  said, 
as  spiritual  relativity. 

I  am  going  on,  now,  and  reading  from 
the  third  chapter  of  Abraham.  The 
Lord  has  been  talking  about  the  intelli- 
gences, and  he  says: 

"21.  I  dwell  in  the  midst  of  them  all; 
I  now,  therefore,  have  come  down  unto 
thee  to  deliver  unto  thee  the  works 
which  my  hands  have  made,  wherein 
my  wisdom  excelleth  them  all,  for  I 
rule  in  the  heavens  above,  and  in  the 
earth  beneath,  in  all  wisdom  and  pru- 
dence, over  all  the  intelligences  thine 
eyes  have  seen  from  the  beginning;  I 
came  down  in  the  beginning  in  the 
midst  of  all  the  intelligences  thou  hast 
seen. 

"22.  Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto 
me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that  were 
organized  before  the  world  was;  and 
among  all  these  there  were  many  of 
the  noble  and  great  ones; .  .  ." 

In  that  great  body  of  intelligences 
there  were  those  whom  the  Lord  has 
described  as  "noble  and  great  ones": 
obviously  others  were  not  noble  and 
great.  Then  going  on,  apparently  in  the 
same  sentence,  as  it  is  punctuated: 

"23.  And  God  saw  these  souls  that 
they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the 
midst  of  them,  and  he  said:  These  I 
will  make  my  rulers;  for  he  stood  among 
those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that 
they  were  good;  and  he  said  unto  me: 
Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them;  thou 
wast  chosen  before  thou  wast  born." 

In  a  minute  or  two  I  will  refer  to  this 


same  observation  in  connection  with  the 
Priesthood. 

Then  the  scripture  tells  us  that  there 
were  two  who  stood  up.  Each  one 
wanted  to  create  this  new  world  that 
they  had  talked  about.  This  is  the 
Grand  Council  that  we  talk  about, 
where  all  of  us  presumably  were.  Some 
were  "noble  and  great  ones,"  and  some 
of  us  were  not.  We  were  not  equal  in 
that  Grand  Council,  have  no  mistake 
about  that.  There  it  was  decided: 

"24.  .  .  .  We  will  go  down,  for  there 
is  space  there,  and  we  will  take  of  these 
materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth 
whereon  these  may  dwell; 

"25.  And  we  will  prove  them  here- 
with, to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall 
command  them; 

"26.  And  they  who  keep  their  first 
estate  shall  be  added  upon;  .  .  ." 

We  understand  that  we  kept  our  first 
estate,  we  who  belong  to  this  Church, 
that  we  have  received  the  Gospel,  and 
if  we  live  as  we  should,  we  will  be 
"added  upon." 

".  .  .  and  they  who  keep  not  their 
first  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the 
same  kingdom  with  those  who  keep  their 
first  estate;  .  .  ." 

The  Lord  has  told  us  that  we  have 
three  kingdoms,  celestial,  terrestrial,  and 
telestial;  he  has  told  us  who  will  be,  in 
great  broad  classifications,  in  each  of 
these  kingdoms,  possess  each  of  these 
glories.  He  has  told  us  that  they  differ. 
Paul  told  the  Corinthians  that  they  dif- 
fered even  as  stars  differed  among  them- 
selves. 

Now,  then  it  goes  on:  (repeating) 
".  .  .  and  they  who  keep  not  their 
first  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the 
same  kingdom  with  those  who  keep  their 
first  estate;  .  .  ." 

I  am  not  undertaking  to  declare  doc- 
trine or  Gospel,  but  as  I  read  that,  and 
as  I  understand  it,  it  means  that  after 
we,  so  to  speak,  have  been  taken  out, 
those  who  have  kept  their  first  estates, 
and  we  are  not  the  only  ones,  there 
remains  the  great  over-plus.  They  do 
not  have  the  same  heritage,  the  same 
kingdom,  the  same  glory,  that  we  shall 
have,  and  they  have  and  can  fall  into 
the  terrestrial,  the  telestial,  and  then 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  tells  us 


84 

Saturday,  October  6 

there  is  a  kingdom  without  any  glory. 
(D  &  C  88:24.) 

My  point  is  that  we  were  not  equal 
at  the  beginning  as  intelligences;  we 
were  not  equal  in  the  Grand  Council; 
we  were  not  equal  after  the  Grand 
Council.  We  had  our  agency  over  there, 
and  the  Lord  has  so  told  us  that  and 
that  it  was  because  of  the  exercise  of 
that  agency  that  a  third  of  the  hosts  of 
heaven  rebelled.  They  did  not  keep 
their  first  estate  and  apparently  the 
punishment  to  be  inflicted  upon  them 
for  their  rebellion  was  that  they  should 
not  have  bodies. 

".  .  .  and  they  who  keep  their  second 
estate  shall  have  glory  added  upon  their 
heads  for  ever  and  ever." 

Then  the  Lord  goes  on  and  tells  us 
about  the  two  beings  who  came  and  of- 
fered to  build  this  earth  and  implement 
its  creation.  Satan,  we  learn  from  other 
scriptures,  declared  that  he  would  save 
everybody,  apparently  either  take  away 
their  free  agency  or  else  cause  that  noth- 
ing that  they  did  would  be  a  crime.  The 
other  one  said  he  would  do  the  will  of 
the  Father.  The  Father  said  that  he 
would  take  the  one  who  said  he  would 
do  his  will.   Then  it  says: 

"28.  And  the  second  was  angry,  and 
kept  not  his  first  estate;  and,  at  that 
day,  many  followed  after  him." 

Then  the  next  chapter  (chapter  4) 
says: 

"1.  ...  Let  us  go  down.  And  they 
went  down  at  the  beginning,  and  they, 
that  is  the  Gods,  organized  and  formed 
the  heavens  and  the  earth. 

"2.  And  the  earth,  after  it  was  formed, 
was  empty  and  desolate,  because  they 
had  not  formed  anything  but  the  earth; 
and  darkness  reigned  upon  the  face  of 
the  deep,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Gods  was 
brooding  upon  the  face  of  the  waters." 

I  like  that  word  "brooding,"  breeding, 
bringing  forth  the  things  of  the  earth, 
or  preparing  it  therefor,  it  seems  to  me 
to  mean. 

Now,  this  matter  of  body  which,  I 
take  it,  will  come  to  those  who  keep 
their  first  estate;  and  those  who  do  not 
keep  their  first  estate,  but  who  do  not 
belong  to  the  rebellious  group,  they  all 
get  bodies  too.  We  have  our  bodies.  We 
are  not  all  born  in  the  same  circum- 
stances, with  the  same  advantages,  and 
all  the  rest  of  it.    But  evidently  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

possession  of  a  body  was  a  great  con- 
sideration, and  I  refer  you,  in  that  con- 
nection, to  the  incident  of  the  Gadarene 
demons. 

You  will  remember  that  when  the 
Savior  approached  them,  they  said, 
"What  have  we  to  do  with  thee,  Jesus, 
thou  Son  of  God?"  This  was  one  case 
where  the  demons,  themselves,  bore 
testimony  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ. 
"What  have  we  to  do  with  thee?" 

And  then  they  asked  that  the  Savior, 
(when  he  cast  them  out  of  the  man — 
they  said  they  were  "legion")  that  the 
Savior  would  permit  them  to  go  into 
the  nearby  herd  of  swine.  I  have  al- 
ways thought  that  there  was  a  beautiful 
expression  there.  They  asked  him  not 
to  send  them  out  into  the  "deep."  You 
will  recall  that  they  went  into  the 
swine,  and  the  swine  ran  down  into 
the  sea  and  were  drowned.  (Matt.  8:28- 
34;  Mark  5:1-20;  Luke  8:26-39.) 

I  have  always  thought  that  that  indi- 
cated very,  very  clearly  how  valuable  an 
earthly  body  is, — that  they  were  willing 
in  order  to  have  possession,  apparently 
even  for  the  moment,  of  a  body,  to  go 
into  the  body  of  a  swine. 

Now,  I  am  trying  to  get  out  of  all  this 
only  the  one  fundamental  thought — we 
were  not  all  equal  at  the  beginning;  we 
were  not  all  equal  at  the  Grand  Council; 
we  have  never  been  all  equal  at  any  time 
since,  and  apparently  we  never  shall 
be. 

Now  as  to  the  Priesthood:  Adam,  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  tells  us,  received 
his  Priesthood  before  the  creation  of  the 
world,  as  I  recall  it.  That  is  when  he 
got  his  Priesthood.  Seemingly  it  was  not 
given  to  everybody.  We  do  not  know 
who  else  received  it  besides  Adam,,  but 
probably  some.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
said,  "I  suppose  that  I  was  ordained  to 
this  very  office  in  that  Grand  Council." 
And  he  said,  "Every  man  who  has .  a 
calling  to  minister  to  the  inhabitants 
of  the  world  was  ordained  to  that  very 
purpose  in  the  Grand  Council  of  heaven 
before  this  world  was."  (Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  2nd  ed„  1940,  pp.  157,  365.) 

I  like  to  think  that  perhaps  we  may 
have  been  there  at  that  Grand  Council 
and  that  we,  the  great  body  of  this 
Church,  with  our  divine  commandment, 
our  divine  destiny,  our  divine  responsi- 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


85 


bility,  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  the  nations 
of  the  earth — I  like  to  think  that  we 
were  endowed  somehow  with  a  mission, 
perhaps  with  the  Priesthood,  to  carry 
on  the  work  which  we  have  to  do. 

Now,  the  Prophet  told  us  that  from 
that  time  down,  apparently  until  the 
time  of  Moses,  the  Priesthood  descended 
in  a  regular  line  from  father  to  son, 
through  their  succeeding  generations. 
(D.C.  Sec.  84.) 

You  will  remember  at  the  very  be- 
ginning there  was  a  contest  in  the  Priest- 
hood. At  any  rate,  Cain  offered  a 
sacrifice  that  was  not  acceptable  to  the 
Lord.   You  know  the  result.  (Gen.  4.) 

From  that  time  on  down  to  the  time 
of  Moses,  we  note  that  the  men  that 
were  named  (they  are  named  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Sections  84 
and  107)  carried  on  the  Priesthood.  It 
does  not  seem  to  have  been  a  common 
endowment.  Everybody  was  not  offer- 
ing sacrifice,  but  only  those  who  were 
chosen  by  the  Lord. 

When  you  come  down  to  Moses,  re- 
member Moses  had  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  which  he  received  from 
Jethro,  his  father-in-law,  at  the  begin- 
ning of  his  work.  (D.C.  84:6.)  He 
seems  to  have  been  the  only  one  among 
the  Israelites  who  then  held  the  Mel- 
chizedek Priesthood.  He  tried,  you  will 
recall  we  are  told,  to  have  Israel  fit  it- 
self to  partake  of  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood. Israel  would  not  do  it,  and  so 
there  was  established  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood, the  Lesser  Priesthood,  and  that 
was  bestowed  upon  Aaron  and  his  fam- 
ily. (D.C.  84:18  ff.) 

Way  along  at  the  beginning,  soon 
after  they  began  the  exodus,  Aaron  and 
Miriam,  the  sister,  apparently  basing 
their  actions  upon  the  fact  that  Moses 
had  married  an  Egyptian,  Ethiopian, 
nevertheless  it  appears  in  the  account 
that  they  accused  Moses,  who  held  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  and  Aaron  held 
only  the  Aaronic  Priesthood — accused 
Moses  of  usurping  power  that  they  had 
formerly  possessed.  You  will  recall  that 
they  were  severely  chastened,  chastised. 
Miriam  was  stricken  with  leprosy. 
(Num.  12.) 

I  have  always  thought  that  there  was 
in  this  an  indication  of  the  priesthood 
status  of  women,  because  of  the  pun- 
ishment which  apparently  was  inflicted 


upon  Aaron,  which  differed  from  the 
punishment  which  was  inflicted  upon 
Miriam, — that  here  was  an  indication 
that  women  did  not  receive  the  Priest- 
hood, and  certainly  so  far  as  we  know, 
women  have  not  had  the  Priesthood. 
Miriam's  punishment  may  have  covered 
her  seeming  claim  that  she  had  a  right 
to  priesthood  powers. 

When  that  was  settled,  you  will  re- 
member that  a  Levite,  Korah,  and 
Dathan  and  Abiram,  apparently  Reu- 
benites,  rebelled  against  Moses  and  said 
he  was  taking  too  much  upon  himself. 
They  did  not  have  the  authority  to 
officiate,  they  did  not  have  the  Priest- 
hood that  Moses  had,  and  they  did  not 
have  the  authority  that  Aaron  had.  They 
rebelled.  I  will  not  take  time  to  do 
more  than  tell  you  that  finally  a  chal- 
lenge was  issued  by  Moses.  They  came 
out  with  their  censers,  and  the  earth 
opened  and  swallowed  them  up.  (Num. 
16.) 

But  they  (Moses  and  Aaron)  were 
not  content  with  that  demonstration. 
You  will  remember  that  then  the  ques- 
tion arose  as  to  where  the  Priesthood 
authority  was,  and  apparently  Moses 
intended  to  settle  it  once  for  all,  so  he 
planned  the  experience  of  the  rod  that 
blossomed.  Each  of  the  tribes  got  a 
rod,  and  it  was  placed  in  a  container 
in  the  tabernacle,  as  I  recall  it,  and  the 
rod  that  blossomed  was  to  be  the  rod 
of  the  tribe  that  was  chosen.  Aaron's 
rod  blossomed;  the  others  did  not. 

I  want  to  get  from  this  the  proposi- 
tion that  Israel,  generally,  did  not  have 
the  Priesthood  that  Aaron  had.  Even 
the  Levites,  who  had  a  secondary  kind 
of  officiating  authority  in  taking  care 
of  the  tabernacle,  did  not  have  the  right 
to  offer  sacrifice,  which  belonged  en- 
tirely to  Aaron  and  his  sons.  (Num. 
16.) 

And  you  may  recall  that  rather  early 
in  their  Priesthood  experience  there  were 
two  sons  of  Aaron,  Nadab  and  Abihu, 
who  offered  "strange  fire"  before  the 
Lord,  and  they  were  smitten,  killed. 
(Lev.  10.) 

The  Lord  has  always  guarded  his 
Priesthood  with  the  utmost  care,  so  that 
all  during  Israel's  time,  only  a  few  held 
the  Priesthood,  and  of  that  few  only  one 
family,  seemingly,  had  the  right  to 
officiate.    There  evidently  were  indi- 


86 

Saturday,  October  6 

viduals  at  various  periods  in  Israel's 
history  who  held  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  but  it  was  not  generally 
possessed.  Apparently  the  Priesthood 
has  not  ever  gone  to  all  humanity.  The 
Lord  has  guarded  it  very,  very  carefully, 
and  he  guards  it  in  the  same  way  today. 

So,  my  brothers,  we  need  not  be 
dismayed  or  suffer  any  inconvenience 
or  embarrassment  from  the  fact  that  the 
Priesthood  is  a  sacred  calling  which  is 
bestowed  upon  those  whom  the  Lord 
designates,  with  such  powers  and  such 
authority  as  the  Lord  may  indicate  by 
virtue  of  the  office.  We  have  deacons, 
teachers,  priests,  elders,  seventies,  high 
priests.  You  know  how  that  comes 
about,  how  we  get  these  various  grades 
of  Priesthood. 

But  two  points: 

First,  there  never  was  a  time  when 
all  spirits  were  equal,  so  far  as  the  Lord 
has  revealed;  so  far  as  he  has  revealed, 
there  never  will  be  a  time  when  all 
spirits  are  equal.  He  has  provided  dif- 
ferent kingdoms  and  glories  for  the  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  individuals  as  they  come 
to  this  earth,  and  I  can  imagine,  having 
in  mind  the  Gadarene  demons,  I  can 
imagine  that  those  who  did  not  keep 
their  first  estate  but  who  still  may  come 
to  earth  and  get  a  body,  are  anxious  to 
come  and  get  a  body  no  matter  what  the 
conditions  are,  if  we  are  to  judge  by 
the  anxiety  of  those  demons  who  were 
cast  out  and  who  asked  that  they  be  per- 
mitted to  enter  the  swine. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Next,  the  Priesthood  has  never  been 
possessed  by  all  individuals;  the  Lord 
has  chosen  those  to  whom  he  wishes  to 
delegate  his  authority.  He  has  care- 
fully guarded  the  exercise  of  that  author- 
ity. Some,  our  sisters,  for  instance,  have 
never  held  the  Priesthood. 

Thank  you,  brethren,  for  your  kind- 
ness. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the 
Lord  lives.  I  bear  you  my  testimony 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he  lived, 
was  crucified,  died,  was  resurrected. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the 
Priesthood  has  been  restored  to  us 
through  the  restoration  that  came 
through  the  Prophet.  I  bear  you  my 
testimony  that  all  of  the  rights  and  the 
powers  which  Joseph  had  have  de- 
scended from  him  till  now  and  that 
they  are  now  possessed  by  President 
David  O.  McKay. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  build  up 
our  testimonies,  enable  us  to  understand 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and  not  get 
off  on  the  theory  of  this  ideology  that 
everybody  is  alike,  and  all  have  equal 
rights, — our  rights  depend  upon  our 
course  before  we  came  here,  and  our 
course  since  we  arrived. 

God  bless  you,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
his  Son.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  address  us. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


M 


[y  dear  brethren,  President  McKay 
has  accorded  me  the  privilege  of 
bringing  to  your  attention  some 
matters  concerning  our  missionary  work. 
We  think  it  well  that  the  whole  Priest- 
hood of  the  Church  should  have  an  un- 
derstanding of  the  great  missionary  work 
which  is  carried  forward,  reaching  such 
large  proportions  as  we  took  the  liberty 
of  telling  you  this  morning.  I  assure 
you  it  is  no  inconsiderable  undertaking 
to  keep  a  force  of  5,000  men,  may  I  call 
them  such,  in  the  army  of  the  Lord 
scattered  throughout  this  world,  and  to 
replenish  their  numbers  and  cause  all  to 


work  in  harmony  and  in  accordance  with 
the  spirit  of  missionary  work,  which  is 
the  spirit  of  our  Father. 

So,  there  does  arise  the  necessity  of 
having  some  definitely  defined  pro- 
cedures for  the  direction  of  this  great 
undertaking,  and  we  think  it  well  if 
you  knew  perhaps  a  little  more  about 
these  procedures  than  all  may  now 
know,  although  of  course  generally  our 
work  is  well  understood  by  this  vast 
congregation  of  Priesthood. 

I  am  going  to  mention  several  matters 
which  relate  largely  to  the  calling  of 
our  brethren  into  the  mission  field. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


87 


Experience  has  taught  us  that  it  is  not 
wise  to  call  young  men  just  married  or 
just  to  be  married.  We  have  learned 
that  it  is  better  to  let  such  a  young  man 
in  justice  to  his  wife  begin  his  home 
at  once  so  that  he  may  have  a  period  of 
time  within  which  to  establish  a  proper 
family  relationship.  So  we  would  like 
young  men  and  their  bishops  to  under- 
stand that  it  is  better  that  they  be  not 
recommended  under  the  circumstances 
which  I  have  mentioned. 

We  bring  to  your  attention  again  the 
health  of  the  missionaries.  We  feel  a 
deep  interest  in  conserving  the  health 
of  our  young  people.  We  recognize 
that  the  mothers  who  let  their  sons  go 
feel  that  they  must  have  the  best  care, 
and  we  ask  all  to  help  safeguard  condi- 
tions of  health  before  missionaries  go 
into  the  mission  field.  We  are  grateful 
to  a  great  many  doctors  who  render 
their  services  free  of  charge  in  physical 
examinations.  Sometimes,  however,  the 
examinations,  I  suppose,  seem  neces- 
sarily hurried,  and  histories  of  disabling 
maladies  sometimes  do  not  come  to 
light,  and  out  of  the  ardor  for  mission- 
ary work,  they  are  sometimes  overlooked, 
and  then  sorrow  comes  in  the  mission 
field.  Sickness  requiring  the  missionary 
patient  to  be  sent  home,  or  hospitalized 
for  long  periods  of  time,  of  course,  is 
embarrassing  to  the  missionary  and  his 
family,  to  his  companion  in  the  mission 
field,  and  to  the  mission  work  generally. 
We  again  urge  bishops  to  use  the  great- 
est of  care  in  assuring  us  that  those  who 
go  into  the  field,  so  far  as  is  foreseeable, 
are  in  a  state  of  health  that  will  enable 
them  to  accomplish  their  work. 

Our  sisters  help  us  in  the  mission  field 
tremendously.  We  have  reports  from 
every  mission  that  the  influence  of  the 
sisters  is  one  of  the  most  refining  and 
ennobling  of  all  the  good  forces  that 
we  have  in  the  mission  field,  and  we 
know  that  there  are  many  who  would 
like  to  go  into  the  field;  but  we  have 
long  since  established  a  minimum  age 
for  sister  missionaries.  That  age  is  23, 
and  that  was  not  arrived  at  without 
considerable  care,  examination  of  statis- 
tical information  regarding  marriages, 
etc.,  and  we  find  still  that  many  en- 
deavor to  secure  exceptions  to  that  rule, 
which  only  make  for  charges  of  dis- 
crimination, and  which  do  not  facilitate 


our  work.  Please  know  that  that  is  the 
age  for  sister  missionaries,  and  help  us 
in  conforming  to  it. 

Nearly  all  missionaries  are  asked  by 
those  who  interview  them  if  they  will 
go  where  they  are  sent,  and  I  think 
nearly  always  the  missionaries  reply 
yes,  they  will.  I  am  sure  that  nearly  all 
of  them  recognize  that  it  is  essential  to 
respond  to  calls  to  go  where  they  are 
needed.  One  can  readily  see  that  if 
preferences  should  be  recognized  gen- 
erally, one  mission  might  be — it  is  hard 
to  say  overstaffed — but  there  would  be 
many  more  than  in  other  missions,  and 
some  missions  might  be  left  with  few 
missionaries.  We  have  constant  calls 
from  mission  presidents  for  the  replace- 
ment of  missionaries  being  released. 
Oftentimes  it  is  necessary  for  mission- 
aries to  maintain  branches,  and  there- 
fore it  is  essential  that  our  prospective 
missionaries  go  where  they  are  called, 
and  cheerfully  respond  to  their  calls, 
and  that  even  though  they  may  have 
some  preferences,  that  they  subdue  those 
preferences  for  the  good  of  the  whole 
Cause,  and  the  building  up  of  our  mis- 
sionary work. 

Six  months  ago,  as  I  recall  it,  we  called 
your  attention  to  the  necessity  of  making 
welcome  into  the  wards  and  branches 
of  the  Church  all  of  the  new  converts. 
We  are  hopeful  that  progress  has  been 
made.  Many  of  those  who  come  into 
the  Church  feel  at  a  loss  if  they  do  not 
receive  a  welcome  among  the  Saints 
with  whom  they  gather.  Our  people 
themselves  should  be  persuaded  to  ex- 
tend the  hand  of  welcome  to  every  new 
convert  in  the  Church,  and  wherever  it 
is  possible  the  bishop  of  a  ward,  or  the 
president  of  a  branch  should  provide 
activity  for  these  new  converts  as  read- 
ily as  may  be  done. 

I  wish  tonight  to  thank  those  who 
have  so  generously  contributed  to  our 
general  missionary  fund.  We  have  been 
more  than  gratified  with  the  gifts  which 
have  been  made  to  this  fund  which 
have  enabled  many  poor  people,  young 
mien  without  means  in  foreign  lands, 
and  young  women  too,  to  undertake  mis- 
sions for  the  Church.  I  note  that  so 
far  as  our  record  goes  174  missionaries 
have  in  the  last  few  years  been  assisted 
from  these  contributed  missionary  funds. 
One  hundred  of  those  missions  have 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday.  October  6 

been  completed;  74  missionaries  are  still 
in  the  field.  In  nearly  all  instances  they 
have  written  to  the  contributors  express- 
ing their  appreciation  for  the  op- 
portunity afforded  to  them  to  go  out 
and  serve  the  Lord. 

Now,  another  item:  No  young  man, 
or  young  woman  either,  should  be 
pressed  into  the  missionary  service.  It 
is  true  that  it  is  perfectly  legitimate  to 
point  out  the  advantages  of  missionary 
service,  its  opportunities,  but  everyone 
who  goes  should  be  imbued  with  the 
remarkable  opportunities  that  a  mission 
affords,  and  he  should  also  know  that 
he  goes  to  bear  witness  of  the  Living 
Christ  to  all  men,  and  to  the  divinity 
and  the  vitality  of  this  work  of  the 
latter  days.  It  is  unfortunate  when 
some  get  into  the  mission  field  and  say 
that  they  were  so  pressured  into  coming 
that  they  have  no  interest  in  it.  There 
are  very  few  in  this  category,  but  we  do 
think  that  there  should  always  be  as- 
surance that  those  who  go  into  the 
field  go  with  a  full  understanding  of 
what  their  work  is  to  be,  and  with  will- 
ingness to  perform  that  work. 

I  pay  my  tribute  to  the  wonderful 
men  and  women  of  the  Church  who  so 
gloriously  respond  to  missionary  calls. 
They  have  set  an  outstanding  record. 
I  think  in  the  eyes  of  the  world  nothing 
commends  us  to  the  esteem  of  men  more 
than  our  marvelous  missionary  system. 
Indeed,  many  are  unable  to  comprehend 
how  our  youth  will  go  out  at  the  expense 
of  their  parents,  and  at  their  own  ex- 
pense, to  disseminate  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  among  men  without  any 


Second  Day 

contribution  whatever,  and  I  pray  the 
Lord  to  bless  all  the  families  that  send 
these  missionaries  forth.  May  they  have 
the  satisfaction  in  their  hearts  of 
knowing  that  they  are  contributing  tre- 
mendously to  the  advancement  of  this 
great  work. 

As  we  indicated  this  morning,  bap- 
tisms are  most  encouraging,  and  they 
will  continue  to  increase  as  you  supply 
this  great  missionary  movement  with 
the  young  men  and  the  young  women 
that  it  needs  to  carry  forth.  Older  men 
and  older  women  are  also  welcome  if 
they  are  in  good  health,  but  we  have 
had  many  instances  where  their  health 
would  not  stand  the  rigors  of  the  mis- 
sionary calling. 

I  will  not  take  more  time  to  dwell 
upon  this  important  phase  of  our  work, 
but  I  will  solicit  your  cooperation — co- 
operation of  bishops,  and  presidents  of 
stakes,  and  of  all  the  Priesthood — in  see- 
ing that  our  processes  for  the  selection 
of  missionaries  and  their  placement  in 
the  field  operates  smoothly,  without 
disappointment  to  missionaries  or  their 
families,  and  without  regrets  to  anyone. 

I  pray  the  Lord's  blessings  upon  you, 
my  brethren  of  the  Priesthood.  I  honor 
you  in  your  respective  callings,  and  I 
know  that  the  holy  power  which  you 
hold,  and  which  is  so  potent  and  in- 
dispensable to  the  establishment  of  our 
Father's  Kingdom,  is  genuine  and  divine. 
I  thank  God  that  we  hold  his  divine 
power,  that  he  has  so  generously  en- 
dowed us  with  the  right  to  represent 
him,  and  I  thank  him  for  all  blessings 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


This  afternoon  at  the  height  of  a  most 
inspirational  meeting  I  saw  two 
young  men  on  my  left  in  the  gallery 
rise  from  their  seats  and  walk  out  of 
the  building.  I  hastily  put  on  my  long 
distance  glasses  to  see  more  definitely 
who  they  were.  They  impressed  me  as 
being  teachers,  about  the  age  of  15. 

That  little  act  emphasized  one  of  the 
points  to  be  mentioned  at  this  Priest- 
hood Meeting,  and  that  is  the  attitude 
of  our  young  men  bearing  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  who  are  asked  to  administer 


the  emblems  of  our  Lord's  death  and 
life.  No  more  sacred  ordinance  has 
been  given  to  us  by  the  Lord  than  the 
administration  of  the  Sacrament.  I  shall 
not  dwell  long  upon  its  significance,  the 
principal  one  of  which  is  a  covenant 
that  we  make  with  the  Lord.  We  give 
our  word  of  honor  to  do  certain  things, 
which  as  the  Brethren  said  today,  are 
contributive  to  our  spiritual  growth  and 
happiness  if  kept,  but  which  weaken 
our  characters  if  we  violate  them. 
Say  over  in  your  mind  briefly  just 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


89 


what  that  covenant  is.  Those  two  men 
who  are  representing  the  audience  appeal 
to  the  Lord  in  the  name  of  the  Redeemer, 
and  ask  him  to  bless  and  sanctify  that 
bread  or  water  to  the  souls  of  all  those 
who  partake  of  it.  That  is  a  sacred 
approach.  "That  they  may  do  it  in 
remembrance  of  the  body  (or  blood) 
of  thy  Son,  and  witness  unto  thee,  O 
God,  the  Eternal  Father,  that  they  are 
willing  to  take  upon  them  the  name 
of  thy  Son,  and  always  remember  him, 
and  keep  his  commandments  which  he 
hath  given  them,"  then  the  result,  "that 
they  may  always  have  his  Spirit  to  be 
with  them." 

That  is  one  of  the  prayers  given  to  us 
word  for  word.  Young  men  who  are 
given  the  Priesthood,  the  importance  of 
which  we  have  heard  tonight,  are  asked 
to  give  the  congregation  the  opportunity 
to  make  that  covenant,  and  the  two 
priests  who  are  to  bless  it,  or  the  four 
who  are  to  participate,  should  be  in- 
structed regarding  the  importance  and 
sacredness  of  their  calling.  No  whisper- 
ing should  be  engaged  in  by  those  boys. 
All  preparation  should  be  carefully 
made  before  the  hour  of  the  sacrament 
meeting,  and  those  young  men  should 
at  least  refrain  from  conversation,  even 
if  they  do  not  contemplate  the  responsi- 
bility which  is  theirs. 

I  am  not  going  to  say  much  about 
the  dress.  We  are  not  a  people  who 
look  to  formality,  certainly  we  do  not 
believe  in  phylacteries,  in  uniforms,  on 
sacred  occasions,  but  I  do  think  that  the 
Lord  will  be  pleased  with  a  bishopric 
if  they  will  instruct  the  young  men  who 
are  invited  to  administer  the  sacrament 
to  dress  properly.  He  will  not  be  dis- 
pleased if  they  come  with  a  white  shirt 
instead  of  a  colored  one,  and  we  are 
not  so  poor  that  we  cannot  afford  clean, 
white  shirts  for  the  boys  who  administer 
the  sacrament.  If  they  do  not  have 
them,  at  least  they  will  come  with 
clean  hands,  and  especially  with  a  pure 
heart. 

I  have  seen  deacons  not  all  dressed 
alike,  but  they  have  a  special  tie  or 
a  special  shirt  as  evidence  that  those 
young  men  have  been  instructed  that 
"you  have  a  special  calling  this  morning. 
Come  in  your  best."  And  when  they 
are  all  in  white  I  think  it  contributes  to 


the  sacredness  of  it.  Anything  that  will 
make  the  young  boys  feel  that  they  have 
been  called  upon  to  officiate  in  the 
Priesthood  in  one  of  the  most  sacred 
ordinances  in  the  Church,  and  they  too 
should  remain  quiet,  even  before  the 
opening  of  the  meeting. 

That  is  just  preliminary.  I  said  I 
saw  these  two  boys  leave  the  building 
this  afternoon,  and  it  reminded  me  that 
in  some  of  our  wards,  these  young  men 
who  have  been  appointed  to  administer 
the  sacrament,  and  who  have  officiated 
in  the  order  of  the  Priesthood,  start  for 
the  door  and  leave  the  worshiping  as- 
sembly. I  will  not  say  it  is  sacrilege, 
but  I  will  say  that  it  is  not  in  keeping 
with  the  order  and  sacredness  of  the 
service  which  they  have  rendered  by 
virtue  of  the  Priesthood. 

Instruct  them,  bishops.  When  they 
accept  that  duty,  they  accept  the  re- 
sponsibility of  remaining  throughout 
that  entire  meeting  hour.  They  are  part 
of  it.  A  bishop  would  not  think  of 
leaving.  His  counselors  would  not. 
Neither  should  your  representatives  who 
administer  the  sacrament. 

There  should  be  more  order  in  the 
administration  of  the  sacrament.  A 
keener  sense  of  the  promise,  the  cove- 
nant, we  make  will  add  much  to  the 
spirituality  of  the  membership  of  the 
Church,  and  will  entitle  us  to  the  guid- 
ance of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Indeed  that  is 
a  principal  end  of  our  existence. 

I  like  that  parable  Jesus  gave  when 
he  said,  "Consider  the  lilies  of  the 
field,  how  they  grow;  they  toil  not, 
neither  do  they  spin: 

"And  yet  I  say  unto  you,  That  even 
Solomon  in  all  his  glory  was  not  arrayed 
like  one  of  these."  (Matthew  6:28-29.) 

"Consider  the  lilies,  how  they  grow," 
with  their  roots  down  in  the  ground 
seeking  for  sustenance,  and  all  that 
sustenance  and  vitality  going  up  through 
the  stem  for  one  purpose,  until  that 
flower  blossoms  in  the  sunshine  in  ful- 
fillment of  its  life,  receiving  the  glory  of 
the  sunshine,  and  the  completion  of 
pistol  and  stamens. 

So  we,  with  our  tentacles  in  the  earth, 
our  hands,  our  brains,  which  God  has 
given  us  physically,  seek  life  and  sus- 
tenance in  subduing  matter.  Why? 
That  we  might  realize  the  ideal,  that  our 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  October  6 

souls  too  may  blossom  in  the  sunshine 
of  God's  Holy  Spirit,  "that  thy  Spirit 
may  be  always  with  us." 

Brethren,  let  us  have  the  Lesser  Priest- 
hood remain  and  participate  in  that 
administration  in  sacredness,  in  rever- 
ence, and  contribute  to  the  order  of  the 
worshiping  assembly. 

There  is  one  other  principle  to  which 
I  wish  to  call  attention  tonight,  and 
that  is  the  observance  of  the  Sabbath 
Day.  I  was  grieved,  recently,  and  prob- 
ably you  were,  to  receive  an  invitation 
to  attend  the  opening  of  a  new  multi- 
million  dollar  runway  at  the  Hill  Field 
Air  Force  Base.  All  our  service  boys 
will  want  to  be  there.  Thousands  of 
loyal  citizens  will  want  to  be  there,  but 
why  should  it  be  on  Sunday?  We  have 
our  boys  of  the  Air  Force  here  tonight. 
They  are  loyal.  Our  boys  are  bringing 
honor  to  our  Country.  Their  Captains, 
their  officers,  write  to  us  and  tell  us 
how  proud  they  are,  and  that  goes  for 
the  boys  particularly  who  are  maintain- 
ing the  ideals  of  the  Church.  Most  of 
them  are — God  bless  them. 

Well,  among  those  ideas  is  worship- 
ing on  the  Sabbath  Day,  keeping  it 
holy.  I  wish  that  they,  in  order  to  be 
loyal  to  their  troops  and  associates, 
would  not  have  to  go  up  there  on 
Sunday.  I  understand  that  possibly  the 
State  National  Guard  here  in  our  own 
State  may  ask  the  members  of  the  Na- 
tional Guard  to  go  out  and  drill  on 
Sunday.   I  hope  not. 

Sunday  is  worship  day.  It  is  holy. 
This  is  a  Christian  nation,  and  the  Lord 
has  promised  that  as  long  as  we  keep 
him  in  mind  and  worship  him  this 
Country  will  stand — this  Government 
will  stand.  No  other  nation  can  take 
it  or  destroy  it.  But  if  we  forget  Him, 
God's  promises  are  not  binding. 

Why  should  Sunday  be  observed  as 
a  day  of  rest?  First,  Sunday  is  essen- 
tial to  the  true  development  and 
strength  of  body,  and  that  is  a  principle 
which  we  should  proclaim  more  general- 
ly abroad,  and  practice.  I  know  that 
you  men  who  have  sedentary  occupa- 
tions, as  we  do  in  the  Church,  say  it  is 
good  to  go  out  and  have  exercise.  That 
will  be  better  for  us.  But  there  is  some- 
thing more  than  just  that.  Sunday  is 
a  day  when  we  change  our  clothes,  put 
on  clean  linen.   It  is  truth  that  "cleanli- 


Second  Day 

ness  is  next  to  godliness,"  and  the  Lord 
said,  "Be  ye  clean  that  bear  the  vessels 
of  the  Lord." 

Bacon,  the  great  philosopher,  said, 
"Cleanliness  of  body  was  ever  esteemed 
to  proceed  from  a  due  reverence  to  God. 
The  consciousness  of  clean  linen  is  in 
and  of  itself  a  source  of  moral  strength, 
second  only  to  that  of  a  clean  con- 
science." The  farmer  who  makes  his 
boys  go  out  and  haul  hay,  even  when 
a  storm  is  coming,  is  doing  his  boys  an 
injustice.  It  would  be  much  better  to 
let  that  hay  be  destroyed  than  to  de- 
prive those  boys  of  a  sense  of  coming 
nearer  to  the  Eternal  Spirit,  and  partake 
of  the  sacrament,  that  they  may  always 
have  his  Spirit  to  be  with  them. 

A  second  purpose  for  keeping  holy 
the  Sabbath  Day  is:  "That  thou  mayest 
more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from 
the  world."  Contemplation  during  that 
sacred  hour,  self  communion,  and 
higher  than  that,  communion  in  thought 
and  feeling  with  the  Lord — the  realiza- 
tion that  He  is  near  enough  to  be  aware 
of  what  you  are  thinking.  What  you 
think  about — is  really  what  you  are. 

"Nae  treasures,  nor  pleasures, 
Could  make  us  happy  lang; 

The  heart  ay's  the  part  ay 
That  makes  us  right  or  wrang." 

Keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the 
world,  and  ask  God  to  forgive  you  if 
you  have  in  mind  injuring  anyone  who 
trusts  you — I  mean  morally — or  if  you 
have  in  mind  wronging  anybody,  cleanse 
it  from  your  mind.  Read  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  Section  59. 

There  is  a  third  reason.  Keeping  holy 
the  Sabbath  Day  is  a  law  of  God,  re- 
sounding through  the  ages  from  Mt. 
Sinai.  You  cannot  transgress  the  law  of 
God  without  circumscribing  your  spirit. 
Finally,  our  Sabbath,  the  first  day  of 
the  week,  commemorates  the  greatest 
event  in  all  history:  Christ's  resurrec- 
tion and  his  visit  as  a  resurrected  being 
to  his  assembled  Apostles.  His  birth,  of 
course,  was  necessary,  and  just  as  great, 
so  I  say  this  is  one  of  the  greatest  events 
in  all  history. 

"The  Sunday,"  says  Emerson,  "is  the 
core  of  our  civilization,  dedicated  to 
thought  and  reverence.   It  invites  to  the 


PRESIDENT  D. 

noblest  solitude,  and  to  the  noblest 
society." 

We  have  other  instructions  and  sug- 
gestions, but  I  will  add  no  more  than 
to  commend  the  excellent  admonitions 
given  by  Brother  Petersen,  President 
Clark,  and  President  Richards. 

I  will  conclude  with  reference  to  an 
incident  as  a  missionary  in  Scotland  in 
1898.  After  having  been  in  Stirling  only 
a  few  weeks,  I  walked  around  Stirling 
Castle  with  my  senior  companion,  Elder 
Peter  G.  Johnston  of  Idaho.  We  had 
not  yet  secured  our  lodging  in  Stirling. 
I  confess  I  was  homesick.  We  had  spent 
a  halfday  around  the  castle,  and  the 
men  out  in  the  fields  ploughing,  that 
spring  day,  made  me  all  the  more  home- 
sick, and  took  me  back  to  my  old  home 
town. 

As  we  returned  to  the  town,  I  saw  an 
unfinished  building  standing  back  from 
the  sidewalk  several  yards.  Over  the 
front  door  was  a  stone  arch,  something 
unusual  in  a  residence,  .and  what  was 
still  more  unusual,  I  could  see  from  the 
sidewalk  that  there  was  an  inscription 
chiseled  in  that  arch. 

I  said  to  my  companion:  "That's  un- 
usual! I  am  going  to  see  what  the 
inscription  is."  When  I  approached 
near  enough,  this  message  came  to  me, 
not  only  in  stone,  but  as  if  it  came  from 
One  in  whose  service  we  were  engaged: 

"Whate'er  Thou  Art,  Act  Well  Thy 
Part." 

I  turned  and  walked  thoughtfully 
away,  and  when  I  reached  my  compan- 
ion I  repeated  the  message  to  him. 

God  help  us  to  follow  that  motto.  It 
is  just  another  expression  of  Christ's 
words:  "He  that  will  do  the  will  of 
God  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether 
the  work  is  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak 
of  myself,"  and  that  testimony  leads 
us  all  to  the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
in  life.  I  humbly  pray  that  the  Priest- 
hood assembled  this  night  (the  number 
we  will  give  you  tomorrow — the  greatest, 
probably,  in  the  history  of  the  Church) 
will  take  upon  themselves  the  responsi- 
bilities which  God  has  placed  upon 
them,  and  do  their  duty  wherever  it 


HD  O.  McKAY  91 

may  be,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Eighteen  groups  have  not  yet  re- 
ported the  number  who  are  listening  to 
this  service  by  direct  wire  broadcast. 
The  grand  total  thus  far  reported  is 
26,874.  God  bless  you  brethren  and 
keep  you  true  to  the  Restored  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  over 
the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System  net- 
work, which  will  have  been  recorded 
in  advance,  so  you  need  not  come  to 
the  Tabernacle  to  hear  it,  will  be  re- 
leased by  transcription  by  KSL  Radio 
Station  tomorrow  morning  from  7:30  to 
8:00  a.m.  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  be  the  speaker. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  will 
be  from  9:30  to  10:00  a.m.  Those  de- 
siring to  attend  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  at  9:15 
a.m.  It  is  requested  that  the  audience, 
during  the  broadcast,  refrain  from  mak- 
ing any  disturbance.  Large  crowds  will 
undoubtedly  be  waiting  outside  the 
closed  doors,  and  when  opened  there  is 
usually  a  rush  by  those  outside  to  get 
good  seats.  We  plead  with  those  thus 
standing  to  be  courteous  and  considerate 
one  to  another.  Avoid  pushing  and 
crowding,  will  you  please.  Courtesy  is 
a  great  virtue.  Let  us  show  it  one  to 
another,  and  particularly  to  our  visitors 
who  are  within  our  gates. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
furnished  the  singing  for  us  tonight. 
We  thank  them  and  Brother  Cornwall 
for  their  presence,  and  for  their  excellent 
singing.  They  will  now  sing,  "Pilgrim's 
Chorus,"  after  which  Elder  Frederick 
Lyman  Schenk,  president  of  the  Twin 
Falls  Stake,  will  offer  the  benediction, 
and  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned 
until  10  o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
sang  "Pilgrim's  Chorus,"  after  which 
the  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Frederick  Lyman  Schenk,  president  of 
the  Twin  Falls  Stake. 


92 

Sunday,  October  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Third  Day 


(For  a  full  report  of  the  Church  of 
the  Air  and  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
Broadcast,  see  pages  127-131.) 

Sunday  morning,  October  7,  1956. 

Conference  reconvened  promptly  at 
10  o'clock,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  furnished  by  the  Salt  Lake 
Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall  conducting.  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Ten  thousand  people  assembled  in  the 
Tabernacle  this  morning  have  just  lis- 
tened to  the  weekly  broadcast  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  There  are  thousands 
now  assembled  not  only  in  the  Taber- 
nacle and  on  the  Temple  Grounds,  but 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and 
in  other  buildings  throughout  the  West. 

The  fifth  session  of  this  General  Con- 
ference was  not  broadcast.  It  was  a 
General  Priesthood  meeting  held  last 
evening  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square,  with  overflow  meetings  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall,  and 
by  direct  wire  over  a  public  address 
system  to  members  of  the  Priesthood 
assembled  in  81  other  Church  buildings 
in  Utah,  Idaho,  Colorado,  New  York, 
Washington,  Oregon,  Arizona,  Wyo- 
ming, Nevada,  Illinois,  New  Mexico, 
Canada,  and  California. 

For  your  information  and  interest  we 
report  that  as  nearly  as  the  ushers  could 
count  there  were  assembled  in  the 
Priesthood  meeting  held  last  evening, 
over  27,000  men  of  the  Priesthood. 
Eighteen  of  the  groups  had  not  reported 
so  we  estimate  that  there  will  be  well 
over  29,000  or  30,000  people  assembled. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus, 
under  the  direction  of  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  furnished  the  music. 

The  address  on  the  Church  of  the 
Air  Broadcast  from  7:30  to  8:00  o'clock 
this  morning  was  given  by  Elder  Alma 
Sonne,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  Elder 
Milton  R,  Hunter,  who  has  been  absent 


because  of  sickness,  and  Elder  Ernest  L. 
Wilkinson,  who  was  stricken  yesterday, 
are  both  reported  improved  this  morning. 

We  are  now  assembled  in  the  sixth 
session  of  the  127th  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church.  All  the  General 
Authorities  are  in  attendance  excepting 
Elder  Hunter.  We  are  glad  to  see  Elder 
Thomas  E.  McKay  present  this  morning. 

These  services  and  the  services  this 
afternoon  will  be  broadcast  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over 
a  public  address  system,  and  by  tele- 
vision. They  are  also  broadcast  over  11 
radio  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Colorado, 
and  Nevada,  and  by  special  arrangement 
over  13  television  stations  in  the  sur- 
rounding States. 

Once  again  we  express  appreciation 
to  the  broadcasting  stations  who  furnish 
this  excellent  service,  thus  furnishing 
conditions  by  which  tens  of  thousands, 
perhaps  hundreds  of  thousands  may 
listen  in. 

To  the  audience — those  assembled  in 
person — and  the  thousands  comprising 
the  television  and  radio  audiences,  the 
First  Presidency  and  other  General  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church  extend  a  most 
hearty  welcome,  and  here  this  morning 
I  think  it  would  be  well  to  extend  ap- 
preciation so  that  those  listening  in  on 
the  Coast  and  Hawaii  may  hear  us, — 
appreciation  for  these  lovely  flowers 
that  decorate  the  rostrum  and  other 
places  in  the  Tabernacle.  Elder  Edward 
Clissold,  president  of  the  Oahu  Stake, 
has  sent  us  word  that  the  beautiful 
anthuriums  and  other  tropical  flowers 
decorating  the  building  bring  to  us  the 
greetings  and  love  of  the  members  of 
the  Oahu  Stake  and  others  in  Hawaii. 
I  wish  to  state  that  these  flowers  were 
flown  here  by  the  United  Air  Lines  free 
of  charge. 

We  welcome  prominent  officials  we 
see  sitting  here.  I  am  sure  we  cannot 
recognize  you  all.  We  bid  the  follow- 
ing welcome:  Senator  Arthur  V.  Wat- 
kins,  Senator  Wallace  F.  Bennett, 
Congressman  William  A.  Dawson,  Sec- 
retary of  State  Lamont  Toronto,  Adiel 
F.  Stewart,  Mayor  of  the  City,  President 
A.  Ray  Olpin  of  the  University  of  Utah, 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


93 


President  Daryl  Chase,  President  of  the 
Utah  State  Agricultural  College,  Presi- 
dent William  P.  Miller,  President  of 
Weber  College,  President  J.  Elliot 
Cameron,  Director  of  Snow  College, 
Superintendent  of  Public  Instruction, 
Prof.  E.  Allen  Bateman;  Superintendent 
of  Salt  Lake  City  Schools,  Prof.  M.  Lynn 
Bennion,  and  others;  Congressman  H. 
Aldous  Dixon.  We  cannot  see  you  very 
well,  but  all  are  welcome  and  we  are 
glad  to  have  you  fellowship  with  us. 

We  also  welcome  the  wives  of  the 
presidents  of  the  missions,  who  have 
been  here  attending  the  dedicatory  serv- 
ices of  the  Relief  Society  Home. 

Presidencies  of  stakes,  bishoprics  of 
wards,  and  all  are  welcome,  as  you 
know,  and  we  pray  that  the  spirit  of 
fellowship  and  good  will  with  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  will  continue  with  us 
throughout  this  session  as  it  has 
throughout  the  preceding  sessions  of  this 
Conference. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  furnish 
the  singing  this  morning,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 
Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the 
organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  with 
the  congregation  singing:  "O  Ye  Moun- 
tains High." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Ward  C.  Holbrook,  president 
of  the  South  Davis  Stake. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "O  Ye 
Mountains  High." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Ward  C.  Holbrook,  president  of 
the  South  Davis  Stake. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Presi- 
dent Ward  C.  Holbrook  of  the  South 
Davis  Stake. 

All  you  who  are  listening  in  will  be 
pleased  to  know  that  sitting  among  the 
audience  that  crowds  this  Tabernacle 
to  capacity  are  several  hundred  service- 
men, members  of  the  Church,  who  have 
come  from  several  different  camps  to 
participate  in  this  Conference.  Young 
men,  with  your  officers  who  are  accom- 
panying you,  we  extend  our  heartfelt 
greeting  and  pray  the  Lord's  blessings 
to  attend  you. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"If,  With  All  Your  Hearts,"  under  the 
direction  of  Elder  Cornwall.  Following 
the  Choir's  singing,  we  shall  hear  from 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  selec- 
tion "If,  With  All  Your  Hearts." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

As  already  announced,  President  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency will  be  our  first  speaker  this 
morning.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


MY  BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS,  as  with  all 
of  us  I  stand  before  you  in  humil- 
ity, with  a  prayer  in  my  heart 
that  I  may  be  able  to  say  something  that 
will  be  helpful  in  building  up  our  faith, 
strengthening  our  testimonies,  and  I  ask 
that  you  will  extend  to  me  your  faith 
and  your  prayers  to  the  same  end,  that 
all  may  be  benefited. 

I  would  like  to  begin  what  I  have  to 
say  this  morning  with  a  quotation  of 


some  scriptures.  One  scripture  has  al- 
ready been  frequently  quoted  that  came 
from  the  great  intercessory  prayer  which 
the  Savior  delivered  the  night  before 
the  day  he  was  crucified: 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and 
Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent." 
(John  17:3.) 

Then  I  would  like  to  quote  the  first 


94  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  7 

three  verses  and  the  fourteenth  of  the 
first  chapter  of  John: 

"In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and 
the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word 
was  God. 

"The  same  was  in  the  beginning  with 
God. 

"All  things  were  made  by  him;  and 
without  him  was  not  any  thing  made 
that  was  made." 

And  the  fourteenth  verse:  "And  the 
Word  was  made  flesh,  and  dwelt  among 
us,  (and  we  beheld  his  glory,  the  glory 
as  of  the  only  begotten  of  the  Father,) 
full  of  grace  and  truth." 

And  finally,  I  will  quote  the  passage 
from  First  Gorinthians,  where  Paul, 
speaking  to  the  backsliding  Corinthians, 
among  whom  already  began  to  appear 
what  finally  became  the  great  apostasy, 
and  complaining  about  them  and  their 
thoughts,  he  said, 

"For  I  determined  not  to  know  any 
thing  among  you,  save  Jesus  Christ,  and 
him  crucified."  (I  Cor.  2:2.) 

There  are  all  sorts  of  cults,  all  sorts  of 
shadings  of  what  we  have  called  Chris- 
tianity. There  is  one  group  of  scholars 
that  work  insidiously  sometimes,  pre- 
tending Christianity  and  a  belief  in 
Christ,  but  nevertheless  who  subtly  and 
insidiously  teach  us  things  that  do  not 
come  within  what  we  understand  as 
Christianity.  The  position  of  these  has 
been  stated  by  one  scholar  thus: 

"Christ  .  .  .  cannot  have  been  both 
the  same  unclouded  thinker  of  the  moral 
sayings  and  the  apocalyptic  fanatic  of 
the  eschatological  passages." 

And  eschatology  is  defined  as  "The 
doctrine  of  the  last  or  final  things,  death, 
resurrection,  immortality,  the  end  of 
the  world,  final  judgment,  and  the  fu- 
ture state;  the  doctrine  of  last  things." 

These  teachers  who  announce  this 
difference  as  to  the  life  of  the  Savior 
and  his  teachings,  some  of  them,  find 
place  amongst  us. 

These  critics  say  one  of  these  two,  the 
moral  teachings  or  the  eschatology,  must 
be  given  up  as  historical  and  the  one 
chosen  to  be  got  rid  of  is  the  eschato- 
logical. Anything  beyond  the  moral 
teachings  is  put  in  the  realm  of  myth, 
legend,  popular  exaggeration,  symbolism, 
allegory,  or  transference  of  the  mirac- 
ulous from  other  departments  of  tradi- 
tion into  the  life  of  Jesus. 


Third  Day 

Their  standard  of  elimination  is  that 
any  "event  which  lies  outside  the  range 
of  the  known  laws  of  Nature,"  must  be 
disregarded.  This  destroys  the  divine 
origin  of  Jesus,  his  miracles,  his  resur- 
rection, and  much  of  his  doctrine. 

I  want  to  read  now  just  a  few  verses 
from  the  Olivet  Discourse,  the  discourse 
which  the  Savior  delivered  on  the  Mount 
of  Olives  at  the  near  conclusion,  or 
conclusion  of  the  third  day  of  the  Pas- 
sion Week  which  he  had  spent  in  the 
temple  or  the  temple  precincts.  I  am 
going  to  read  from  all  three  Synoptists, 
because  each  says  essentially  the  same 
thing,  but  in  somewhat  different  lan- 
guage. I  am  reading  from  the  24th 
chapter  of  Matthew.  They  had  gone 
out  to  the  Mount  of  Olives,  Jesus  and 
his  disciples;  they  asked  if  he  would 
like  them  to  tell  him  about  the  temple, 
and  so  on,  and  it  was  then  that  he 
predicted  that  the  temple  would  be 
destroyed,  and  thereafter  in  this  dis- 
course he  touched  upon  not  only  the 
destruction  of  the  temple  but  the  Sec- 
ond Coming.  Not  always  can  you  be 
clear  as  to  which  he  was  referring,  but 
the  passages  that  I  shall  read  have  ref- 
erence as  to  what  should  finally  take 
place. 

"Tell  us,  when  shall  these  things  be? 
and  what  shall  be  the  sign  of  thy  com- 
ing, and  of  the  end  of  the  world? 

"And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto 
them,  Take  heed  that  no  man  deceive 
you. 

"For  many  shall  come  in  my  name, 
saying,  I  am  Christ;  and  shall  deceive 
many.  .  .  . 

"Then  if  any  man  shall  say  unto 
you,  Lo,  here  is  Christ,  or  there;  believe 
it  not. 

"For  there  shall  arise  false  Christs, 
and  false  prophets,  and  shall  shew  great 
signs  and  wonders;  insomuch  that,  if 
it  were  possible,  they  shall  deceive  the 
very  elect. 

"Behold,  I  have  told  you  before. 

"Wherefore  if  they  shall  say  unto  you, 
Behold,  he  is  in  the  desert;  go  not  forth: 
behold,  he  is  in  the  secret  chambers; 
believe  it  not."  (Matt.  24:3-5;  23-26.) 

Mark  said:  "And  Jesus  answering 
them  began  to  say,  Take  heed  lest  any 
man  deceive  you: 

"For  many  shall  come  in  my  name, 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


95 


saying,  I  am  Christ;  and  shall  deceive 
many.  .  .  . 

"And  then  if  any  man  shall  say  to 
you,  Lo,  here  is  Christ;  or,  lo,  he  is 
there;  believe  him  not: 

"For  false  Christs  and  false  prophets 
shall  rise,  and  shall  shew  signs  and 
wonders,  to  seduce,  if  it  were  possible, 
even  the  elect. 

"But  take  ye  heed:  behold,  I  have 
foretold  you  all  things."  (Mark  13:5-6, 
21-23.) 

And  Luke  says,  more  shortly  than  is 
recorded  by  the  others: 

"And  he  said,  Take  heed  that  ye  be 
not  deceived:  for  many  shall  come  in  my 
name,  saying,  I  am  Christ;  and  the  time 
draweth  near:  go  ye  not  therefore  after 
them."  (Luke  21:8.) 

I  think  perhaps  when  we  first  read 
these  extracts  we  may  think  that  the 
Savior  is  talking  primarily  of  a  person, 
somebody  to  come  to  impersonate  the 
Christ  and  claim  to  be  the  Christ.  It 
seems  to  me,  however,  from  the  way  in 
which  these  records  are  made  and  what 
they  say,  that  the  Savior  also  had  in 
mind  anyone  who  would  come  and 
say  to  you,  "This  is  Christ  that  I  teach; 
that  is  Christ  that  I  teach;  that  is  the 
Christian  doctrine."  In  that  sense  I 
think  that  these  scholars  about  whom 
I  have  already  read,  who  would  discard 
everything  that  they  could  not  account 
for  by  the  known  laws  of  nature,  they 
are  in  effect  false  Christs,  for  they  are 
telling  us  that  the  things  that  we  believe 
in  Christ  are  myths,  tradition,  symbol- 
ism, allegory;  they  did  not  exist. 

Now,  that  kind  of  a  religion,  that  kind 
of  Christianity  would  require  that  we 
discard  all  that  we  know  about  the  Great 
Council  in  heaven  and  what  was  deter- 
mined there,  because  these  things  lie 
outside  the  known  laws  of  nature,  as 
those  scholars  understand  them. 

We  would  have  to  discard  the  Fall  as 
being  a  myth,  an  allegory,  symbolism. 

We  would  have  to  discard  the  virgin 
birth,  the  divine  conception,  the  very 
foundation  of  our  religion;  that  would 
have  to  go. 

We  would  have  to  discard  the  witness 
of  the  Father  at  the  time  of  the  baptism 
of  the  Savior;  that  would  go  as  myth, 
symbolism,  allegory. 

We  would  have  to  discard  practically 
all  of  the  miracles  as  not  taking  place 


and  those  that  might  be  accepted  would 
be  spoken  of  as  signs.  A  sign  can  be 
a  miracle,  but  not  necessarily  so.  A 
miracle  is  a  sign,  but  more  than  that. 

We  would  have  to  discard  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Father,  at  the  time  of  the 
transfiguration,  that  Jesus  was  his  Son. 

We  would  have  to  discard  that  great 
occasion,  the  raising  of  Lazarus  and  the 
incidents  thereof,  the  reply  of  the  Savior 
to  Martha: 

"I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the  life: 
he  that  believeth  in  me,  though  he  were 
dead,  yet  shall  he  live:  , 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die."  (John  11:25- 
26.)  That  would  have  to  go  into  the 
discard  as  myth,  allegory,  symbolism, 
tradition. 

Finally,  we  would  have  to  discard 
all  that  we  know  about  the  resurrection 
and  its  effect;  all  of  that  is  gone. 

As  to  all  these,  and  almost  countless 
other  matters:  be  not  deceived,  believe 
them  not,  follow  not  after  the  false 
Christs. 

I  would  like  you  to  appreciate  that 
without  the  eschatology  of  the  records 
of  the  Savior's  life,  we  should  have 
nothing  left  but  husks,  moral  teachings, 
and  ethics  which,  if  lived,  would  make 
us  a  great  people,  a  humane  people,  a 
peaceful  people,  but  would  not  carry 
us  back  into  the  presence  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father. 

In  my  view,  that  doctrine  is  not  only 
sacrilegious,  but  to  me  it  is  also  blas- 
phemy, something  to  be  utterly  cast 
away.  We  have  less  left  after  they  get 
through  with  their  discards  than  the  old 
paganism,  for  that  paganism,  the  old 
Greek  mythology,  did  acknowledge  and 
have  a  kind  of  worship  of  divine  beings 
which  they  conceived;  they  did  believe 
in  them  and  worship  them. 

My  whole  soul  rebels  against  this 
emasculation  of  Christianity.  Jesus  did 
live.  First,  there  was  the  great  plan  in 
heaven;  that  did  actually  occur.  All 
that  we  know  about  it  took  place  there. 
There  was  the  plan;  the  earth  was 
formed;  Adam  came;  the  human  family 
followed.  We  came  here  to  prove  our- 
selves. Finally,  Christ  was  born  in  the 
Meridian  of  Time.  He  lived.  He 
taught.  He  gave  instructions.  He  was 
crucified.   Then  on  the  morning  of  the 


96 

Sunday,  October  7 

third  day,  he  was  resurrected,  thus 
bringing  to  each  and  every  of  us  the 
blessings  of  the  resurrection.  We  all 
shall  be  resurrected.  All  of  that  has 
gone  for  these  people  to  whom  I  refer. 
It  is  myth,  tradition,  allegory.  Be  not 
deceived  by  them;  believe  them  not; 
follow  not  after  them. 

Then  we  would  have  to  discard  all 
that  transpired  in  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel,  the  Vision  of  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  giving  of  the  great  com- 
mandments which  compose  our  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  We  would  have  to 
discard  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  and 
all  that  it  says. 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  let  us  be 
aware  of  this  false  Christ,  false  Chris- 
tianity which  is  taking  root  among 
some  of  our  intellectuals.  Be  not  de- 
ceived, believe  it  not,  follow  not  after 
it,  as  the  Lord  said  in  those  various 
records. 

I  bear  my  testimony  as  I  have  already 
indicated  to  the  truthfulness  of  the 
gospel,  to  the  restoration  of  its  great 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

principles,  to  the  restoration  of  the 
priesthood,  to  the  conferring  of  all  of 
these  things  upon  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
to  the  passing  down  from  the  Prophet 
Joseph  through  the  Presidents  of  the 
Church  until  the  present,  that  our  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  President  David  O. 
McKay,  has  all  of  the  rights  and  the 
prerogatives  and  the  powers  and  authori- 
ties that  were  conferred  upon  the 
Prophet  Joseph. 

I  bear  you  this  testimony  in  soberness. 
I  repeat,  my  soul  cries  out  against  this 
heresy  that  is  taught  by  this  group  of 
so-called  Christians. 

God  be  with  us  and  help  us  always, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Richard  L.  Evans. 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  although 
we  face  this  challenging  assign- 
ment semi-annually,  we  still 
anticipate  and  approach  it  with  trepida- 
tion and  deep  humility.  We  are  fearful 
that  sometime  we  may  depend  upon 
ourselves  alone,  and  we  know  that  if 
we  should  our  words  would  be  as  sound- 
ing brass  and  tinkling  cymbals. 

Now  I  know  that  I  cannot  say  any- 
thing that  will  be  new  to  members  of 
the  Church.  I  cannot  say  anything 
that  has  not  been  said  many  times  be- 
fore, and  of  course  better  said,  but  I 
am  encouraged  by  the  announcement 
of  the  President  that  we  are  favored 
this  morning  with  the  presence  of  many 
of  our  friends,  both  in  the  Tabernacle 
and  in  the  radio  and  television  audience, 
whom  he  has  welcomed  as  our  invited 
guests.  May  I  assume  that  some  of  you, 
our  brothers  and  sisters  who  are  not  in 
the  Church,  might  be  interested  in  a 
very  brief  review  of  some  of  the  teach- 


ings and  practices  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  which 
distinguish  it,  for  it  is  somewhat 
unique. 

We  are  not  Catholic,  Protestant,  nor 
Jewish,  and  yet  this  disclaimer  should 
not  be  taken  to  mean  we  are  not  Chris- 
tian. You  who  heard  the  powerful 
address  of  President  Clark  this  morning 
will  know  that  we  are  Christians,  for 
central  to  everything  we  believe  and 
teach  is  our  faith  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  God.  We  are  grateful  for 
our  Judeo-Christian  heritage,  for  the 
Holy  Bible  which  we  accept  without 
reservation  as  the  word  of  God,  except 
as  to  some  errors  that  have  crept  in 
through  translation. 

But  the  difference  between  us  and 
other  churches  lies  in  our  faith  in  and 
proclamation  of  what  we  believe  to  be 
the  most  important  message  that  has 
come  to  this  earth  since  Christ  lived 
among  men.   We  make  that  statement 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


97 


because  we  believe  that  the  restoration 
of  the  gospel  was  introduced  by  Jesus 
Christ  personally,  and  therefore  there 
could  be  no  more  important  message. 

Now  when  we  say,  as  we  do  say, 
that  there  has  been  a  divine  restoration 
of  the  apostolic  Church,  with  all  of  the 
power  and  authority  thereof,  we  are 
aware  that  it  presupposes,  and  we  de- 
clare, that  there  was  a  need  for  a  restora- 
tion; that  there  had  been  an  apostasy; 
that  during  the  middle  and  dark  ages 
there  was  spiritual  stagnation.  If  it  is 
not  true  that  there  was  an  apostasy, 
then  our  declaration  of  a  restoration  is 
superficial  and  meaningless.  If  it  is 
true  that  there  has  been  a  restoration, 
then  all  men  everywhere  should  know 
of  it,  for  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom 
must  be  preached  to  all  the  world. 

The  apostles  and  prophets  predicted 
an  apostasy,  and  great  historians  such 
as  Mosheim  and  Eusebius  record  it  as 
a  fact.  We  are  not  alone  among  the 
churches  in  proclaiming  a  universal 
apostasy.  The  Church  of  England 
frankly  sets  it  forth  in  the  following 
words: 

So  that  laity  and  clergy,  learned  and  un- 
learned, all  ages,  sects,  and  degrees  of  men, 
women,  and  children  of  whole  Christen- 
dom .  .  .  have  been  at  once  drowned  in 
abominable  idolatry;  .  .  .  and  that  by  the 
space  of  eight  hundred  years  and  more. 
(Homily  against  Peril  of  Idolatry.) 

John  Wesley,  one  of  the  founders  of 
Methodism,  comments  as  follows  on  the 
early  decline  of  spiritual  power  and  the 
cessation  of  the  divine  gifts  and  graces 
within  the  Church: 

It  does  not  appear  that  these  extraordinary 
gifts  of  the  Holy  Spirit  were  common  in  the 
Church  for  more  than  two  or  three  cen- 
turies. We  seldom  hear  of  them  after  that 
fatal  period  when  the  Emperor  Constantine 
called  himself  a  Christian.  .  .  .  From  this 
time  they  almost  totally  ceased,  very  few 
instances  of  the  kind  being  found.  The 
cause  of  this  was  not,  as  has  been  supposed, 
because  there  was  no  more  occasion  for 
them,  because  all  the  world  was  become 
Christians.  This  is  a  miserable  mistake; 
not  a  twentieth  part  of  it  was  then  nominal- 
ly Christian.  The  real  cause  of  it  was  that 
the  love  of  many,  almost  all  Christians,  so- 
called,  was  waxed  cold.  The  Christians  had 
no  more  of  the  spirit  of  Christ  than  the 
other  heathens.  .  .  .  This  was  the  real  cause 


why  the  extraordinary  gifts  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  were  no  longer  to  be  found  in  the 
Christian  church — because  the  Christians 
were  turned  heathens  again,  and  only  had 
a  dead  form  left.  (John  Wesley's  Works, 
Vol.  VII,  89;  26-27.) 

Peter  said  the  time  would  come  when 
men  would  not  endure  sound  doctrine, 
but  after  their  own  lusts  they  should 
heap  unto  themselves  teachers  having 
itching  ears.  The  Apostle  Paul  warned 
against  the  intrusion  of  falsehoods  and 
said, 

That  ye  be  not  soon  shaken  in  mind,  or 
be  troubled,  neither  by  spirit,  nor  by  word, 
nor  by  letter  as  from  us,  as  that  the  day  of 
Christ  is  at  hand. 

Let  no  man  deceive  you  by  any  means: 
for  that  day  shall  not  come,  except  there 
come  a  falling  away  first,  and  that  man  of 
sin  be  revealed,  the  son  of  perdition; 

Who  opposeth  and  exalteth  himself  above 
all  that  is  called  God,  or  that  is  worshipped; 
so  that  he  as  God  sitteth  in  the  temple  of 
God,  shewing  himself  that  he  is  God. 
(II  Thess.  2:2-4.) 

John,  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos,  beheld 
the  great  dragon  that  should  overcome 
the  Church,  and  that  that  dragon  should 
have  power  in  all  nations,  kindreds,  and 
tongues.  All  of  these  things  being  pre- 
dicted, and  now  recorded  by  the  his- 
torians, justifies  at  least  in  a  measure 
our  statement  that  following  that  apos- 
tasy there  has  been  a  restoration. 

Perhaps  you,  our  friends,  ask  what 
was  restored  that  we  did  not  have  be- 
fore? We  humbly,  but  without  equivo- 
cation, reply  that  the  kingdom  of  God 
has  been  set  up  upon  the  earth,  organ- 
ized under  his  divine  guidance — the 
very  kingdom  for  which  you  and  Chris- 
tians in  all  nations  and  climes  have 
been  praying  since  Jesus  first  taught  the 
Lord's  Prayer  to  his  apostles,  the  cen- 
tral thought  of  which  is,  "Thy  kingdom 
come."  (Matt.  6:10.) 

We  announce  the  organization  of  the 
kingdom  which  Jesus  commanded  all 
men  to  make  the  first  object  of  their 
search  when  he  said,  ".  .  .  seek  ye  first 
the  kingdom  of  God."  (Ibid.,  6:33.) 
We  believe  this  is  the  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times  of  which  the  Apos- 
tle Paul  spoke, 

That  in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness 


98  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  7 

of  times  he  might  gather  together  in  one 
all  things  in  Christ,  both  which  are  in 
heaven,  and  which  are  on  earth;  even  in 
him:  (Eph.  1:10.) 

Now  you,  my  friends,  may  think  it 
presumptuous  for  us  to  claim  that  this 
is  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God — 
and  it  would  be  presumptuous  if  we 
said  men  had  organized  it,  or  that  men 
were  responsible  for  its  restoration.  That 
certain  men  were  chosen  and  had  part 
in  it  is  true.  But  it  is  not  presumptuous 
to  announce  that  the  God  of  heaven  has 
set  up  his  kingdom,  for  he  did  it  pur- 
suant to  divine  decree,  and  in  harmony 
with  what  the  apostles  and  prophets  of 
old  saw  in  holy  vision. 

It  has  been  said  that  history  repeats 
itself,  but  someone  recently  observed: 
"We  learn  from  history  that  we  do  not 
learn  from  history."  Christians  have 
often  wondered  how  the  Jews  could 
have  rejected  Christ  when  they  had 
been  hoping  and  praying  through  the 
centuries  for  the  coming  of  the  promised 
Messiah.  Let  us  add  to  our  prayer  "Thy 
kingdom  come" — also  centuries  old — a 
petition  that  we  may  not  reject  it  when 
it  comes. 

We  believe  that  this  kingdom  is  now 
set  up  in  order  that  the  will  of  God 
might  be  done  in  the  earth  as  it  is  in 
heaven,  and  that  it  is  preparatory  to 
the  second  coming  of  the  Son  of  God. 
We  believe  it  is  the  kingdom  which 
Daniel  saw.  All  of  you  will  remember 
reading  the  story  of  the  king  of  Baby- 
lon, Nebuchadnezzar,  who  had  a  dream 
in  which  he  saw  a  great  image  with  a 
head  of  gold,  shoulders  and  arms  of  sil- 
ver, body  of  brass,  legs  of  iron,  and  feet 
and  toes  of  iron  and  clay.  You  will  re- 
member that  the  king  called  in  his  wise 
men  but  could  not  get  the  interpretation 
of  his  dream,  that  he  sent  for  Daniel 
who,  when  asked  if  he  could  interpret  the 
dream,  said,  "There  is  a  God  in  heaven 
that  revealeth  secrets,  and  maketh 
known  what  shall  be  in  the  latter  days." 

Then  he  said, 

Thou,  O  king,  art  a  king  of  kings:  for 
the  God  of  heaven  hath  given  thee  a  king- 
dom, power,  and  strength,  and  glory. 
(Daniel  2:37.) 


Third  Day 

He  went  on  to  say  the  king  had  power 
and  control  over  all  things,  and  then 
he  said,  "Thou  art  this  head  of  gold." 
Then  Daniel,  with  prophetic  insight, 
and  in  amazing  detail,  foresaw  the  rise 
and  fall  of  the  nations  of  the  earth — the 
great  Babylonian  empire,  represented  by 
the  head  of  gold,  the  Medo-Persian  em- 
pire, by  the  shoulders  and  arms  of  silver, 
the  Greek,  by  the  brass,  the  divided 
kingdom  of  Rome,  by  the  legs  of  iron, 
and  the  feet  and  toes  which  represented 
the  divided  kingdoms  of  Europe  and 
the  world,  which  would  not  cleave  to- 
gether, and,  said  Daniel,  ".  .  .  in  the 
days  of  these  kings  shall  the  God  of 
heaven  set  up  a  kingdom,  which  .  .  . 
shall  break  in  pieces  and  consume  all 
these  kingdoms,  and  it  shall  stand  for 
ever."  {Ibid.,  2:44.) 

Is  it  presumptuous  for  us  to  say  that 
that  prophecy  has  been  literally  ful- 
filled? Do  you  not  think  it  likely  that 
inasmuch  as  Daniel  saw  so  accurately 
the  rise  and  fall  of  these  kingdoms,  each 
in  turn,  that  the  latter  part  of  his  great 
prophetic  declaration  must  be  also  ful- 
filled? If  the  kingdom  of  God  is  not 
on  the  earth,  then  we  believe  firmly  that 
that  part  of  Daniel's  vision  will  yet 
be  fulfilled. 

That  it  has  been  and  is  being  fulfilled 
in  these  latter  days  we  humbly  declare. 
We  should  like  to  say  to  you,  our  friends, 
that  there  is  a  way  that  you  may  know 
whether  what  we  say  is  true  or  false. 
Paraphrasing  an  ancient  prophet,  we  ex- 
hort you  who  hear  these  things  that 
you  ask  God  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  if  what  we  say  is 
true,  and  if  you  will  ask  in  faith,  he 
will  reveal  the  truth  of  it  unto  you  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  That  is 
a  promise  made  under  the  inspiration  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  to  all  who  will  hear 
and  put  it  to  the  test. 

Hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  from 
almost  every  country  have  put  it  to 
the  test,  and  over  a  million  and  a  quar- 
ter of  them  will  testify,  each  in  his  own 
tongue,  that  they  did  ask  God  the  Eter- 
nal Father  whether  these  things  are 
true,  and  that  he  did  reveal  the  truth 
of  it  unto  them.  I  humbly  and  sincere- 
ly declare  to  you  that  God  has  revealed 
to  me  the  truth  of  the  prophet's  declara- 
tion of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


99 


the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  pursuant  to  John's 
revelation  when  he  said: 

And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst 
of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting  gospel  to 
preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth, 
and  to  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and 
tongue,  and  people, 

Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and 
give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of  his 
judgment  is  come.  (Rev.  14:6-7.) 

Humbly  I  bear  witness  to  the  truth 
of  the  declaration  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  that 
that  angel  has  flown;  that  Christ  has 
appeared;  that  other  heavenly  beings 
have  visited  the  earth  and  restored  the 


priesthood;  that  the  kingdom  of  God 
is  set  up;  and  that  the  Savior  will  come 
to  this  earth  and  reign  as  King  of  kings 
and  Lord  of  lords  pursuant  to  promise, 
to  which  I  testify  humbly  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Assistant  to  the 
Quorum  of  the  Twelve.  We  shall  now 
hear  from  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans, 
member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
he  to  whom  you  have  listened  every  Sun- 
day morning  during  the  Choir  broad- 
casts. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay  and  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  many  thoughts  and 
themes  have  run  through  my  mind 
during  this  conference,  but  I  must  ad- 
mit that  I  am  more  aware  this  morning 
and  at  this  moment  of  those  who  are  not 
here  in  the  Tabernacle,  than  of  those 
who  are.  It  is  quite  likely  not  only 
that  those  who  are  listening  and  looking 
outside  outnumber  us  many  times,  but 
also  that  those  who  are  not  members 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  greatly  outnumber  those 
who  are,  and  it  is  with  these  principally 
in  mind  that  I  speak  at  this  time. 

(I  am  aware,  too,  somewhat,  of  the 
"World  Series,"  unfortunately,  and  I 
feel  a  little,  I  think,  as  the  Ancient 
Mariner  must  have  felt  when  he  tried 
to  detain  the  wedding  guest.  After  all, 
there  are  nine  innings  to  come,  and 
likely  there  can  be  only  one  of  two 
results.  We  hope  you  will  stay  with 
us  a  little  longer.) 

I  am  grateful  for  a  conviction  of  the 
many  things  men  have  in  common. 
So  much  of  our  heritage,  so  much  of 
basic  belief,  so  much  of  so  much  that 
matters  most  in  life,  we  have  in  com- 
mon. And  among  the  greatest  of  things 
we  have  in  common  is  our  relationship 
to  the  God  and  Father  of  us  all,  who 
made  us  in  his  image  and  whose  chil- 


dren we  all  are.  For  this  I  am  grate- 
ful. I  am  grateful  also  for  the  love  I 
have  in  my  heart  for  mankind. 

I  should  like  to  share  with  you,  in 
quick  review,  another  thing  we  have 
in  common,  often  overlooked,  not  al- 
ways observed — the  commandments  of 
God — and  I  should  like  to  go  back  first 
to  the  Ten  Commandments  and  quickly 
cite  them,  not  in  full  text,  but  in  full 
meaning: 

Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me. 
Thou  shalt  not  make  unto  thee  any  graven 
image. 

Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord, 

thy  God,  in  vain. 
Remember  the  sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy. 

(I  wish  all  of  you  present  and  all  of 
you  on  the  air  could  have  heard  last 
evening,  President  McKay's  statement 
concerning  the  Sabbath  day.  I  would 
not  wish  to  particularize  at  this  time  as 
did  they  in  ancient  Israel,  as  to  what 
one  should  or  should  not  do  on  the 
Sabbath  day,  but  I  am  sure  that  there 
are  many  activities  and  events,  public, 
and  private,  that  ought  to  be  deferred 
to  another  day,  and  I  would  remind  you 
again  that  the  word  the  Lord  used 
concerning  the  Sabbath  was  "holy" — 
"to  keep  it  holy.") 


100  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  October  7 

Honour  thy  father  and  thy  mother. 

Thou  shalt  not  kill. 

Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery. 

Thou  shalt  not  steal. 

Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness. 

Thou  shalt  not  covet.  .  .  . 

I  am  grateful  for  these  things  in  com- 
mon, and  I  am  grateful  for  a  respect 
I  have  for  the  sincere  convictions  of  all 
men,  and  the  respect  other  men  have  for 
our  sincere  convictions. 

I  should  like  to  share  with  you  quickly 
and  briefly  some  other  things  that  we 
would  hope  men  have  in  common, 
which  we  would  subscribe  to  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  some  of  which  are 
incorporated  in  our  Articles  of  Faith 
and  some  of  which  appear  elsewhere. 
The  audience  this  morning  being  what 
it  is,  outside  these  walls,  I  should  like 
to  read  some  of  these  Articles  of  Faith: 

We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father, 
and  in  His  son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

We  believe  that  men  will  be  punished 
for  their  own  sins,  and  not  for  Adam's 
transgression. 

(Each  of  these  is  tempting  to  elabo- 
rate. Each  one  might  well  be  the 
subject  of  a  sermon.) 

We  believe  that  through  the  Atonement  of 
Christ,  all  mankind  may  be  saved,  by 
obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of 
the  Gospel. 

We  believe  that  the  first  principles  and 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are:  first,  Faith  in 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  second,  Repentance; 
third,  Baptism  by  immersion  for  the  re- 
mission of  sins;  fourth,  Laying  on  of  hands 
for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

We  believe  in  the  same  organization  that 
existed  in  the  Primitive  Church,  viz.,  apos- 
tles, prophets,  pastors,  teachers,  evangelists, 
etc. 

(There  are  others,  and  I  will  not  take 
time  to  read  them  all.) 

We  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed, 
all  that  He  does  now  reveal,  and  we  believe 
that  He  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and 
important  things  pertaining  to  the  King- 
dom of  God. 

We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping 
Almighty  God  according  to  the  dictates  of 


Third  Dmj 

our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the 
same  privilege,  let  them  worship  how,  where, 
or  what  they  may. 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste, 
benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing  good  to 
all  men — [and,  passing  over  some  words  of 
Paul] — If  there  is  anything  virtuous,  lovely, 
or  of  good  report  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek 
after  these  things. 

We  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of 
God  as  far  as  it  is  translated  correctly;  we 
also  believe  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  be  the 
word  of  God. 

The  Lord  has  had  many  peoples  and 
has  dealt  with  them  under  many  con- 
ditions at  many  times  in  many  places, 
even  unto  the  present,  and  his  similar 
dealings  with  others  as  with  ancient 
Israel  we  accept  as  scripture. 

We  believe  also  in  the  eternal  con- 
tinuance of  the  marriage  covenant,  and 
not  just  a  marriage  that  death  dissolves. 
We  believe  that  the  sweetest  and  most 
meaningful  things  in  life  are  everlast- 
ing. 

We  believe  in  and  accept  all  truth, 
and  believe  in  the  search  for  truth, 
through  the  inspiration  of  Almighty 
God  and  through  the  searching  and 
seeking  of  earnest  and  honest  men. 

Now,  it  should  not  seem  a  thing 
strange  that  there  are  certain  require- 
ments and  commandments  and  ordi- 
nances that  must  be  accepted  or  adhered 
to.  In  all  things  in  life,  in  the  physical 
world  and  in  the  spiritual  world,  there 
are  causes  and  consequences.  Some  of 
them  we  have  to  accept  on  faith.  Even 
those  which  are  demonstrated  fact,  we 
have  to  accept  in  part  on  faith,  because 
we  do  not  know  the  "why"  of  all  things. 
We  do  not  know  why  two  atoms  of 
hydrogen  and  one  of  oxygen  make 
water,  but  we  know  they  do.  The 
"why"  is  something  we  shall  learn 
later. 

We  do  not  know  "why"  the  necessity 
for  baptism  and  all  the  other  ordinances 
under  the  hands  of  those  having  divine 
authority.  We  accept  them  on  faith, 
in  full  faith. 

We  believe  in  continuous  revelation. 
The  Lord  God  has  not  told  us  all  he 
knows,  but  he  has  told  us  much  more 
than  we  use  and  live  up  to. 

We  believe  in  the  acceptance  of  all 
truth,  but  not  all  theory.    I  have  spent 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


101 


a  good  many  years  in  my  life  in  aca- 
demic walls.  I  have  a  profound  respect 
for  scholars  and  scholarship  and  science 
and  scientists,  the  ablest  among  whom 
would  be  the  first  to  admit  that  their 
findings  are  still  in  flux,  and  that  there 
is  yet  infinitely  much  to  be  discovered. 

Patience,  faith,  virtue,  humility,  and 
a  never-ceasing  search,  and  living  and 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God, 
are  required  of  all  of  us — and  it  should 
not  seem  a  thing  strange  that  the  Lord 
God  has  requirements  and  prescribed 
ways,  and  that  just  any  way  that  men 
choose  will  not  lead  to  the  highest 
blessings  that  God  can  give.  Those 
who  wish  to  realize  limitless  opportuni- 
ties and  exaltation  and  happiness  here 
and  hereafter  in  the  fullest  possible 
measure  must  live  according  to  his 
commandments,  according  to  his  pre- 
scribed way  in  the  fullest  possible  way. 

Truth  is  not  always  convenient.  The 
commandments  of  God  are  not  always 
convenient.  They  do  not  bend  them- 
selves to  our  convenience.  Truth  does 
not  adapt  itself  to  what  we  wish  it  were. 
We  had  better  adapt  our  lives  to  what 
it  is.  We  had  better  adapt  our  lives  to 
the  commandments  of  God,  whether 
they  are  convenient  or  not. 

Patience,  faith,  conforming  our  lives 
to  truth,  the  keeping  of  the  command- 
ments, trust  in  the  eternal  future — the 
assurance  that  the  most  meaningful 
things  in  life  are  everlasting,  and  a 
patient  search  and  seizing  upon  what 
the  soul  and  the  spirit  with  its  imprint 
upon  the  soul  tells  us  to  be  truth — 
these  are  required  of  us. 

May  I  share  with  you  a  statement 
from  an  eminent  and  able  New  England 
scholar,  a  statement  written  to  me  in 
a  letter  just  a  few  days  ago  by  Dr. 
Henry  Beston: 

"Never  bind  life  in  the  cords  of  an 
unintelligent  skepticism.  Unintelligent 
credulity  can  be  dangerous,  but  an  un- 
intelligent skepticism  locks  the  doors  of 
the  mind." 

We  can  rationalize  away  almost  any- 
thing, anything  ever  said,  anything  that 
ever  happened,  anything  ever  written 
or  spokerS  But  we  cannot  rationalize 
away  the  witness  of  the  Spirit  unto  our 
souls,  which  brings  knowledge  more 


sure  than  the  things  we  can  touch,  and 
see,  and  feel.  That  witness  I  leave  with 
you  this  day  as  to  the  reality  of  those 
things  of  which  Brother  Hugh  B.  Brown 
and  President  Clark  have  previously 
spoken,  as  to  the  glorious  events  of  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
as  to  the  way  of  life  and  salvation,  and 
the  divine  reality  of  our  Savior,  who 
came  to  earth  not  to  condemn  but  to 
save  us. 

Our  Father  in  heaven  is  not  an  um- 
pire who  is  trying  to  count  us  out.  He 
is  not  a  competitor  who  is  trying  to 
outsmart  us.  He  is  not  a  prosecutor 
who  is  trying  to  convict  us.  He  is  a 
Loving  Father  who  wants  our  happiness 
and  eternal  progress  and  everlasting  op- 
portunity and  glorious  accomplishment, 
and  who  will  help  us  all  he  can  if  we 
will  but  give  him,  in  our  lives,  the 
opportunity  to  do  so  with  obedience  and 
humility  and  faith  and  patience. 

God  help  us  to  live  to  have  his  help, 
that  these  things  which  he  has  in  store 
for  his  children,  all  of  whom  we  are, 
may  be  ours,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  Now  will  the  audience  please 
join  the  Choir  in  singing,  "Come,  Come, 
Ye  Saints,"  the  hymn  that  lifted  the 
hearts  of  the  Pioneers  on  the  Plains  and 
recently  thrilled  in  ecstasy  cultured 
audiences  of  Europe  as  it  was  sung  by 
this,  our  Salt  Lake  Choir.  It  will  be 
led  by  Elder  Cornwall. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come  Ye 
Saints." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  address 
us.  Elder  McConkie  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  Twelve,  who  will  be  our  conclud- 
ing speaker. 


102 

Sunday,  October  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Third  Dai/ 


This  morning  we  have  heard  fervent 
and  true  witness  borne  by  these  great 
men  who  have  stood  in  this  pulpit 
about  the  fundamental  truths  on  which 
we  stand.  We  have  heard  witness 
borne  of  the  divine  mission  of  Christ 
our  Lord,  of  the  glorious  things  inci- 
dent to  the  restoration  of  the  gospel, 
and  of  the  establishment  of  the  king- 
dom of  God  on  earth  in  our  day. 

Along  with  these  brethren,  as  a  wit- 
ness of  these  things,  knowing  for  a 
surety  of  the  truth  of  what  I  say,  I  bear 
witness  and  testimony  and  record  that 
God  has  spoken  in  this  our  day;  that 
the  heavens  have  been  opened;  that  the 
fulness  of  the  gospel  has  been  given 
again  to  men  on  earth;  that  angels  have 
ministered  from  the  presence  of  the 
Lord;  and  that  the  kingdom  of  God,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  is  here  in  the  most  literal  and 
real  sense. 

Now,  this  is  a  startling,  a  dramatic,  a 
marvelous  announcement  and  claim  to 
make.  Perhaps  it  staggers  the  imagina- 
tion of  people  who  have  not  been 
schooled  in  the  revelations. 

Permit  me  to  remind  you  that  the 
ancient  revelations  speak  in  great  meas- 
ure, at  extended  length,  about  the 
glorious  things  that  are  to  occur  in  the 
latter-days,  in  the  era  of  restoration.  I 
think  there  is  no  single  subject  covered 
in  the  ancient  revelations  as  extensively, 
not  even  excepting  the  many  revela- 
tions about  the  divine  mission  of  our 
Lord,  as  is  the  general  subject  of  the 
great  era  of  restoration,  the  period  when 
God  will  gather  all  things  in  one  and 
consummate  his  glorious  work  in  the 
latter  days. 

For  instance:  You  will  recall  that 
after  our  Lord  had  organized  and  set 
up  his  Church  in  the  Meridian  of  Time, 
after  he  had  ministered  among  his  apos- 
tles, his  brethren,  for  a  period  of  forty 
days  following  his  resurrection,  after  all 
things  were  established  for  that  era,  and 
on  the  occasion  when  he  was  to  ascend 
in  glory  to  his  Father,  he  was  asked  the 
question:  "Lord,  wilt  thou  at  this  time 
restore  again  the  kingdom  to  Israel?" 


And.  you  will  recall  that  he  replied,  "It 
is  not  for  you  to  know  the  times  or  the 
seasons,  which  the  Father  hath  put  in 
his  own  power."  (Acts  1:6-7.)  But  then 
he  sent  his  witnesses  to  declare  the  glad 
tidings  of  salvation  for  that  era  to  all 
the  world. 

In  other  words,  those  brethren  knew 
that  in  a  day  subsequent  to  that  which 
then  was,  in  a  period  after  New  Testa- 
ment times,  the  promises,  glorious  prom- 
ises made  to  Israel,  were  to  be  fulfilled. 

You  will  recall  that  all  of  the  prophets 
in  ancient  Israel  spoke  and  wrote  at 
great  length  about  the  latter  days  and 
the  restoration  of  the  kingdom  to  Israel. 

You  will  recall  that  early  in  his  min- 
istry, when  Peter  was  speaking  to  those 
on  whose  hands  the  blood  of  Christ 
was  found,  he  said  these  very  expressive 
words: 

Repent  ye  therefore,  and  be  converted, 
that  your  sins  may  be  blotted  out,  when 
the  times  of  refreshing  shall  come  from  the 
presence  of  the  Lord; 

And  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ,  which 
before  was  preached  unto  you:  [now  please 
note] 

Whom  the  heaven  must  receive  until 
the  times  of  restitution  of  all  things,  which 
God  hath  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his 
holy  prophets  since  the  world  began.  (Acts 
3:19-21.) 

That  is  to  say,  between  the  first  and 
second  comings  of  our  Lord,  there  was 
to  be  an  era  in  the  earth's  history  which 
was  named  "the  times  of  restitution  of 
all  things,"  or  as  we  would  express  it, 
in  more  up-to-date  language,  the  era  or 
period  or  age  of  restoration. 

You  will  recall  that  it  was  Paul  who 
said  that  in  the  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times  all  things  would  be 
gathered  together  in  one  in  Christ,  both 
things  which  are  in  heaven  and  on 
earth.  (See  Eph.  1:10.) 

You  will  recall  the  words  that  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown  quoted  to  us  that  an 
angelic  ministrant  should  fly  through 
the  midst  of  heaven  in  the  latter  days 
to  bring  the  everlasting  gospel  to  men 
on  earth.  (See  Rev.  14:6-7.) 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 


103 


We  need  not  multiply  illustrations; 
we  easily  could  do  so.  There  are  multi- 
tudes and  multitudes  of  scriptures  which 
tell  the  events  that  are  to  transpire  in  our 
day,  and  so  far  as  we  can  learn,  no  one 
else  ever  claimed  revealed  knowledge  of 
their  fulfilment;  no  one  else  ever  came 
professing  to  know  of  the  fulfilment  of 
the  prophecies  of  old,  relative  to  the 
setting  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God  in 
the  last  days. 

We  have  this  witness  in  our  hearts, 
a  witness  borne  of  the  Spirit,  that  these 
things  have  in  our  day  occurred;  and 
we  believe  most  firmly  that  the  Lord  is 
no  respecter  of  persons,  which  means 
that  he  will  give  the  Holy  Ghost  to  any 
living  soul  who  will  abide  the  law  en- 
titling him  to  receive  revelations  there- 
from, and  that  member  of  the  Godhead 
will  bear  record  to  him  of  the  divinity 
of  Christ  his  Son  and  of  this  great  latter- 
day  work  that  has  been  established. 

You  know,  from  the  beginning,  from 
the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  to  this 
moment,  the  men  who  have  been  living 
oracles,  witnesses  of  the  truth  of  these 
things,  have  been  sound,  stable,  great, 
intelligent,  competent  men.  We  have 
not  been  led  by  people  who  are  unstable 
or  fanatical  or  unbalanced  in  any  sense 
of  the  word.  We  have  had  men  who 
have  been  educators  and  bankers,  presi- 
dents of  insurance  companies,  people 
who  have  sat  in  the  halls  of  Congress 
and  in  Cabinets  with  Presidents,  the 
most  stable,  mature,  and  sensible  men, 
industrialists  and  otherwise,  that  any- 
one could  expect  to  find. 

Now  it  would  seem  to  me  that  when 
men  of  the  highest,  soundest  caliber — 
I  mean  the  living  oracles,  the  Presidency 
and  the  Twelve,  from  the  beginning  to 
now — stand  up  as  we  have  heard  it  done 
here  this  morning,  and  bear  fervent  wit- 
ness to  the  divinity  of  these  things,  and 
certify  that  they  know  as  they  know 
that  they  live,  that  God  has  spoken  in 
this  day,  it  seems  to  me  that  any  person 
in  the  world  who  has  spiritual  inclina- 
tion ought  to  stay  himself  and  wonder, 
and  be  willing  to  search  and  make  in- 
quiry, and  find  whether  these  glorious 


and  marvelous  things  are  true,  or 
whether  they  are  not. 

I  had  a  man  tell  me  how  it  came 
about  that  he  was  converted  to  the 
Church  in  his  later  years,  past  sixty. 
He  said  that  he  chanced  to  be  on  Tem- 
ple Square.  He  walked  into  this  build- 
ing when  President  J.  Reuben  Clark 
was  addressing  a  civic  organization  on 
a  civic  or  political  subject.  At  the  end 
of  his  talk,  this  man  told  me,  President 
Clark  said  in  substance,  "Now,  I  am 
going  to  bear  you  my  testimony  about 
Joseph  Smith  and  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel,"  which  he  did  with  the  power 
that  few  can  equal.  The  convert  then 
said,  "I  had  never  before  heard  of  Joseph 
Smith,  but  I  did  know  who  J.  Reuben 
Clark  was,  and  I  figured  that  if  a  man 
of  that  caliber  would  tell  me  in  the 
sincerity  with  which  he  spoke  that  this 
great  truth  was  available,  that  I  ought 
to  make  inquiry  and  find  out,"  and  he 
investigated  and  joined  the  Church. 
That  is  a  very  sensible  attitude. 

To  what  these  great  men  who  have 
spoken  this  morning  have  said,  I  add 
my  own  personal  testimony,  an  assur- 
ance born  of  the  Spirit,  an  assurance 
coming  when  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord,  which  has  spoken  to  the 
spirit  which  is  within  me,  conveying 
truth  with  unshakable  certainty.  I  add 
my  witness  that  God  Almighty  has 
opened  the  heavens  in  our  day;  that  all 
of  the  laws  and  principles  which  com- 
prise the  gospel  of  salvation  are  here 
again;  that  legal  administrators  stand  at 
the  head  of  the  kingdom  of  God  on 
earth;  and  that  for  all  who  will  hearken 
and  believe  and  conform  to  these  prin- 
ciples there  is  peace  and  joy  in  this  life 
and  a  hope  of  eternal  reward  hereafter. 
In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  conclud- 
ing speaker. 


104 

Sunday,  October  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Third  Day 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS  AND  FRIENDS, 
both  seen  and  unseen:  Humbly 
and  prayerfully  I  stand  before  you 
this  Sabbath  day.  I  have  prayed  fervent- 
ly that  I  might  have  the  power  to  say 
what  is  in  my  heart,  and  what  our 
Father  in  heaven  would  have  me  say. 

It  is  good  to  come  home.  For  one 
who  is  on  temporary  leave  from  his 
official  duties  in  the  Church,  and  who 
misses  very  greatly  the  daily  and  weekly 
intimate  contacts  with  the  Church  and 
its  program — the  visits  to  the  stakes  and 
missions — it  is  doubly  good  to  be  home; 
and  to  one  who  went  through  the 
experience  which  I  went  through  six 
months  ago,  it  is  triply  good  to  be  home. 

I  was  here  to  attend  conference  in 
April.  In  the  early  morning  hours  of 
the  day  when  the  conference  was  to 
open — because  of  the  press  of  official 
duty — it  became  necessary  for  me  to 
leave  and  return  East.  I  would  like  to 
say,  President  McKay,  if  you  should  ever 
want  to  test  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  who  live  on  the  eastern  seaboard 
just  send  them  home  as  the  conference 
is  ready  to  open.  I  hope  I  never  have 
to  repeat  that  performance. 

I  have  felt  in  my  heart,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  I  would  like  to  say 
just  a  word  regarding  a  simple  principle 
and  practice  of  the  Church.  I'd  also 
like  to  express  my  testimony  regarding 
the  power  of  that  simple  principle  and 
practice,  and  also  express  my  gratitude 
for  the  influence  which  that  principle 
and  practice  has  had  in  my  life  and  the 
lives  of  those  whom  I  love  and  associate 
with. 
I  speak  of  prayer. 

I  express  my  gratitude  to  my  brethren 
of  the  General  Authorities  for  their  con- 
stant prayers  in  my  behalf,  as  they 
gather  in  the  temple  to  the  east  of  us 
weekly,  around  the  sacred  altar  in  that 
glorious  temple.  I  express  my  gratitude 
and  thanksgiving  for  the  prayers  offered 
in  my  behalf  in  the  stake  conferences 
and  the  other  meetings  throughout  the 
Church.  I  express  gratitude  for  the 
prayers  and  the  faith  of  my  devoted  wife 
and  children,  who  have  complete  faith 
in  this  glorious  principle. 


I  express  also  my  thanks  for  men  and 
women,  individuals  in  and  out  of  the 
Church  throughout  this  great  land,  and 
in  foreign  lands,  who  have  expressed 
their  faith  with  their  prayers  in  my 
behalf.  Hundreds  and  thousands  of  let- 
ters have  come  in  from  people  in  all 
walks  of  life,  expressing  their  feelings 
and  indicating  that  their  prayers  are 
being  offered. 

Only  recently  I  was  speaking  at  a  great 
meeting  in  Chicago — a  dinner  meeting — 
to  an  audience  not  wholly  friendly.  Just 
before  I  was  to  speak  a  colored  waiter 
whispered  over  my  shoulder  and  said, 
"Mr.  Secretary,  would  it  be  helpful  to 
you  before  you  speak  to  know  that  thou- 
sands of  people  throughout  America  are 
praying  for  you  tonight." 

I  know  not  by  what  methods  rare 
But  this  I  know:  God  answers  prayer. 
I  know  that  he  has  given  his  word 
Which  tells  me  prayer  is  always  heard 
And  will  be  answered  soon  or  late 
And  so  I  pray,  and  calmly  wait. 
I  know  not  if  the  blessings  sought 
Will  come  just  in  the  way  I  thought, 
But  leave  my  prayers  with  him  alone 
Whose  will  is  wiser  than  my  own; 
Assured  that  he  will  grant  my  quest 
Or  send  some  answer  far  more  blessed. 

Eliza  M.  Hickok 
It  is  my  testimony,  my  brothers  and 
sisters  and  friends,  that  God  does  hear 
and  answer  prayers.  I  have  never 
doubted  that  fact.  From  childhood,  at 
my  mother's  knee  where  I  first  learned 
to  pray;  as  a  young  man  in  my  teens; 
as  a  missionary  in  foreign  lands;  as  a 
father;  as  a  Church  leader;  as  a  govern- 
ment official,  I  know  without  any  ques- 
tion that  it  is  possible  for  men  and 
women  to  reach  out  in  humility  and 
prayer  and  tap  that  Unseen  Power;  to 
have  prayers  answered.  Man  does  not 
stand  alone,  or  at  least,  he  need  not 
stand  alone.  Prayer  will  open  doors; 
prayer  will  remove  barriers;  prayer  will 
ease  pressures;  prayer  will  give  inner 
peace  and  comfort  during  times  of  strain 
and  stress  and  difficulty.  Thank  God 
for  prayer. 

I  am  very  grateful  today  that  prayer 
has  played  such  an  important  part  in 


ELDER  EZRA  1 

the  establishment  of  this  great  nation. 
To  every  Latter-day  Saint  this  nation 
has  a  prophetic  history.  Ancient  Amer- 
ican prophets  predicted  the  coming  forth 
of  this  nation  and  the  establishment 
of  the  Constitution  of  this  land.  You 
can  read  in  that  sacred  volume,  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  prophecies  made  centuries 
before  this  nation  was  established  re- 
garding the  coming  of  Columbus  and 
the  Pilgrim  fathers.  Ancient  prophets 
said  these  would  humble  themselves 
before  the  Lord.  I  have  always  been 
very  grateful  in  reading  the  official  rec- 
ords to  find  that  they  did  humble  them- 
selves before  the  Lord;  that  their  first 
official  act  in  coming  to  these  shores  was 
to  go  on  to  their  knees  in  humble  grati- 
tude and  thanksgiving  to  the  Lord. 

The  Founding  Fathers,  in  order  that 
their  new  experiment  make  sense,  had 
to  turn  to  religion,  had  to  turn  to  the 
scriptures,  had  to  turn  to  the  prophecies, 
the  Decalogue,  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount.  Then  when  the  time  came  for 
the  establishment  of  the  Constitution, 
and  when  the  time  came  for  them  to 
issue  their  Declaration  of  Independence, 
a  sacred  document  issued  in  white  heat 
on  the  anvil  of  defiance,  they  appealed 
to  the  Almighty,  both  at  the  opening  of 
that  document  and  at  its  closing.  They 
spoke  of  eternal  truths.  They  spoke  of 
the  fact  that  men  are  endowed  by  their 
Creator  with  certain  inalienable  rights, 
about  which  President  Clark  spoke  so 
beautifully  last  evening. 

Then,  at  the  close  of  the  document 
they  said, 

.  .  .  with  a  firm  reliance  on  Divine 
Providence  we  mutually  pledge  to  each  other 
our  lives,  our  fortunes,  and  our  sacred 
honor. 

And  even  in  the  formulation  of  the 
Constitution,  which  was  done  slowly 
and  painfully,  wrought  on  the  forge  of 
national  necessity,  prayer  played  an  im- 
portant part.  There  at  the  Constitu- 
tional Convention,  when  it  seemed  as  if 
their  efforts  were  to  fall  flat  and  to 
be  of  no  avail,  one  of  those  whom  the 
God  of  heaven  had  raised  up  unto  this 
very  purpose,  to  help  establish  the  Con- 
stitution of  this  land — and  you  can  read 
of  it  in  Section  101  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  in  a  revelation  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph — one  of  these  Founding 


AFT  BENSON  105 

Fathers,  Benjamin  Franklin,  his  head 
gray  with  age,  about  the  oldest  in  the 
group,  and  possibly  the  most  experienced 
statesman  of  the  lot,  is  reported  to  have 
stood  up  in  the  convention  and  uttered 
these  words: 

In  the  beginning  of  the  contest  with 
Great  Britain,  when  we  were  sensible  of 
danger,  we  had  daily  prayers  in  this  room 
for  divine  protection.  Our  prayers,  sir, 
were  heard  and  they  were  graciously  an- 
swered. ...  I  have  lived  a  long  time  and 
the  longer  I  live  the  more  convincing  proofs 
I  see  of  this  truth — that  God  governs  the 
affairs  of  men. 

And  the  old  statesman  continued, 

If  a  sparrow  cannot  fall  to  the  ground 
without  His  notice,  is  it  possible  that  an 
empire  can  rise  without  His  aid?  We  have 
been  assured,  sir,  in  the  sacred  writings  that 
except  the  Lord  builds  a  house  they  labor 
in  vain  who  build  it.  I  firmly  believe  this, 
and  I  also  believe  that  without  this  confer- 
ring aid  we  shall  succeed  in  this  political 
building  no  better  than  the  builders  of 
Babel. 

It  is  my  belief  today,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  we  need  as  a  nation  that 
same  faith,  that  same  reliance  on  divine 
aid  and  assistance,  as  was  needed  at  that 
Constitutional  Convention.  I  am  very 
grateful  that  they  established  and  wrote 
into  their  documents — their  basic  docu- 
ments— a  recognition  of  their  depend- 
ence upon  the  Almighty;  that  they 
stamped  on  their  coins  the  slogan,  "In 
God  We  Trust." 

Does  it  not  inspire  you,  as  it  does  me, 
when  you  go  back  through  the  history 
of  this  land  and  try  to  envision  in  your 
mind  Washington  at  Valley  Forge,  dur- 
ing that  terrible  winter,  on  bended  knees 
in  the  snow  imploring  divine  guidance? 
Does  it  not  thrill  you  as  you  see  Abra- 
ham Lincoln  during  the  crucial  days  of 
the  Civil  War  driven  to  his  knees  in 
prayer  to  the  Almighty,  and  to  hear  him 
say, 

God  rules  this  world.  It  is  the  duty  of 
nations  as  well  as  of  men  to  own  their 
dependence  upon  the  over-ruling  power  of 
God,  to  confess  their  sins  and  transgressions 
in  humble  sorrow  .  .  .  and  to  recognize  the 
sublime  truth  that  those  nations  only  are 
blessed  whose  God  is  the  Lord. 

It  is  my  plea  today,  my  brethren  and 


106 

Sunday,  October  7 

sisters — men  of  the  priesthood  par- 
ticularly— that  we  use  our  influence  as 
American  citizens,  and  as  citizens  of  the 
kingdom  of  God,  as  men  who  have  faith 
in  prayer,  faith  in  God,  that  we  will 
encourage  our  leaders,  national,  state, 
local,  and  civic  leaders  to  take  an  inter- 
est in  this  matter  of  encouraging  our 
people  in  this  blessed  land  to  bow  them- 
selves before  the  Almighty  in  prayer.  I 
think  there  would  be  great  safety  in  a 
nation  on  its  knees.  What  assurance  it 
would  give  of  the  blessings  of  the  Al- 
mighty if  the  American  people  could  all 
be  found  daily — night  and  morning — 
on  their  knees  expressing  gratitude  for 
blessings  already  received,  and  acknowl- 
edging their  dependence  upon  the  Al- 
mighty and  seeking  for  his  divine 
direction. 

I  hope  we  may  encourage  that  prac- 
tice in  our  service  clubs,  schools,  in  our 
meetings  of  farmers,  businessmen,  and 
professional  men.  I  have  been  pleased 
to  see  what  I  think  is  a  turn  toward  an 
increase  of  interest  in  prayer  and  in  re- 
ligion. I  was  very  pleased  to  find  an  in- 
creasing number  of  prayer  groups  in  the 
Congress  of  the  United  States,  where 
members  of  that  body,  of  opposite  politi- 
cal faith,  could  come  together  weekly 
and  unite  in  humble  prayer  and  petition 
to  the  Almighty. 

I  am  pleased  to  find  the  increasing  evi- 
dence of  the  practice  of  prayer  in  the 
executive  branch  of  the  government. 
I  testify  to  the  blessings  which  prayer  has 
brought  to  the  cabinet  meetings  of  the 
President  and  to  my  own  staff  meetings. 
I  think  there  is  a  need  for  it,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  throughout  our  govern- 
ment. Without  his  divine  help  we 
cannot  succeed.  With  his  help  we 
cannot  fail. 

May  I  mention  a  simple  little  experi- 
ence that  came  to  my  personal  atten- 
tion some  time  ago.  I  think  it  was  two 
or  three  years  ago  now  when  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  United  States  issued  a 
proclamation  for  a  day  of  prayer.  It 
was  not  the  first  time  it  has  been  done 
in  this  great  country,  and  I  hope  it  will 
not  be  the  last  time.  I  am  glad  it  has 
been  done  again  this  year.  Then  as  is 
the  custom,  as  the  head  of  one  of  the 
departments  of  government,  it  was  my 
responsibility,  I  felt,  to  send  a  memo- 
randum to  the  heads  of  the  twenty 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

agencies  in  the  Department  of  Agri- 
culture, and  to  the  employees,  referring 
to  the  presidential  proclamation  in 
which  we  were  asked  to  devote  a  day 
to  giving  of  thanks  for  blessings  re- 
ceived, and  to  beseech  God  to  strengthen 
us  in  our  efforts  toward  a  peaceful 
world.  And  so,  this  memorandum  was 
sent  out,  from  which  I  read  just  one  or 
two  sentences: 

In  keeping  with  the  President's  proclama- 
tion, all  members  of  the  Department  of 
Agriculture  are  requested  to  plan  their  work 
schedules  and  reserve  the  time  between 
11:30  a.m.  and  11:45  a.m.  free  from  ap- 
pointments and  interference  so  that  all  in 
their  respective  offices  may  utilize  this  time 
for  meditation  and  prayer.  Facilities  are 
inadequate  for  the  Department  as  a  whole 
to  meet  together.  We  feel,  therefore,  that 
in  addition  to  this  brief  period  of  time  set 
aside  during  the  day,  all  should  be  encour- 
aged to  petition  God  in  their  homes  and 
with  their  loved  ones  both  morning  and 
evening  for  guidance,  clemency,  and  for- 
giveness. 

I  was  not  only  pleased,  but  I  was  also 
delighted  with  the  response  that  came 
from  the  employees  of  that  great  depart- 
ment. I  have  before  me  a  typical  little 
note  that  went  to  the  head  of  one  of 
these  agencies  from  one  of  the  men  ap- 
pointed in  charge  of  one  of  the  groups. 
I  would  like  to  read  it  to  you  as  an 
evidence  of  the  fact  that  people  do  re- 
spond to  leadership  which  calls  for 
men  and  women  to  recognize  their  de- 
pendence upon  the  Almighty,  and  to 
humble  themselves  before  him.  This  is 
the  note: 

In  response  to  Secretary  Benson's  mem- 
orandum of  September  20  about  President 
Eisenhower's  proclamation  for  a  day  of 
prayer,  approximately  100  of  our  Forest 
Service  family  met  in  the  conference  room 
from  11:30  to  11:45  a.m.  on  Wednesday, 
September  22.  Every  division  in  the  Wash- 
ington office  was  represented  from  the  mes- 
senger rooms  up. 

I  read  the  Secretary's  memorandum  which 
in  itself  is  a  spiritual  message  of  encourage- 
ment and  inspiration.  W.  K.  Williams  read 
a  prayer  by  J.  Edgar  Hoover,  a  copy  of  which 
is  attached.  The  meeting  was  closed  with 
oral  prayers  by  both  Mr.  Williams  and 
myself. 

Following  the  meeting  and  continuing 
through  today  there  have  been  numerous 
telephone  calls  and  personal  expressions  of 


ELDER  EZRA 

satisfaction  over  this  opportunity  for  the 
Forest  Service  family  to  join  with  the  Presi- 
dent, Mr.  Benson  and  other  national  leaders 
in  this  period  of  prayer  for  a  more  peace- 
ful world. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  convinced 
in  my  heart  that  the  spectacle  of  a 
nation  praying  is  more  awe-inspiring, 
more  powerful,  than  the  explosion  of  an 
atomic  bomb.  The  force  of  prayer  is 
greater  than  any  possible  combination 
of  man-controlled  powers  because,  as 
J.  Edgar  Hoover  has  so  well  said,  prayer 
is  man's  greatest  means  of  tapping  the 
resources  of  God. 

I  am  pleased  that  this  nation,  on 
several  occasions,  has  appealed  to  the 
United  Nations  to  open  the  General 
Assemblies  with  an  appeal  to  the  Al- 
mighty. I  am  pleased  that  only  re- 
cently our  representative  in  that  body, 
referred  to  by  President  McKay  some 
months  ago,  Ambassador  Henry  Cabot 
Lodge,  Jr.,  wrote  a  letter  to  the  seventy- 
five  members  of  the  United  Nations  ap- 
pealing to  them  to  open  those  meetings 
with  an  appeal  to  the  Almighty;  that 
some  representative  of  the  churches  rep- 
resented there  be  invited  in  their  own 
words  to  lead  in  prayer.  Senator  Lodge 
made  the  appeal  to  all  and  invited  them 
to  join  him  in  this  petition.  Senator 
Lodge  said: 

I  do  so  in  the  conviction  that  we  cannot 
make  the  United  Nations  into  a  successful 
instrument  of  God's  peace  without  God's 
help — and  that  with  His  help  we  cannot 
fail.  To  this  end  I  propose  that  we  ask  for 
that  help. 

There  is  probably  no  single  thing  that  the 
United  Nations  can  do  which  will  so  move 
and  touch  millions  of  people  around  the 
world  and  will  give  them  such  confidence  in 
the  United  Nations. 

I  was  pleased,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, as  I  read  the  report  of  the  April 
conference  and  the  remarks  by  Elder 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  speaking  as  directed 
by  the  First  Presidency,  in  announcing 
the  series  of  new  Church  posters  and 
cards  for  the  benefit  particularly  of  our 
young  people,  to  note  that  one  of  them 
was  going  to  be  devoted  to  prayer.  I 
wish  there  were  time  this  morning  to 
read  the  account  of  this  particular  card 


AFT  BENSON  107 

and  poster  on  prayer.  One  will  show 
the  picture  of  George  Washington,  Abra- 
ham Lincoln,  and  President  Eisenhower 
in  the  background,  and  then  in  the 
foreground  a  family  group.  At  the  top 
we  will  read:  "Great  Men  Pray,"  and 
again  at  the  bottom:  "Be  Honest  with 
Yourself." 

Then  that  lovely  sidepiece  of  explana- 
tion, which  is  an  inspiration,  and  which 
I  wish  every  American  could  read,  yes, 
every  person  in  the  world,  regarding  the 
benefits  and  the  blessings  of  prayer. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  like  to 
see  this  nation  on  its  knees  in  humble 
prayer.  A  few  months  ago  I  received  a 
lovely  poster  from  Conrad  W.  Hilton 
of  hotel  fame.  This  poster  showed  Un- 
cle Sam  in  his  red,  white,  and  blue  uni- 
form on  his  knees,  praying  to  the  Al- 
mighty. Then  the  caption:  "America 
on  its  knees  .  .  .  not  beaten  there  by  the 
hammer  and  sickle,  but  freely,  intelli- 
gently, responsibly,  confidently,  power- 
fully, America  now  knows  it  can  de- 
stroy Communism  and  win  the  battle 
for  peace.  We  need  fear  nothing  or  no 
one  .  .  .  except  God." 

Yes,  it  is  in  our  own  enlightened  self- 
interest  to  engage  in  this  simple  prac- 
tice, this  powerful  practice  of  prayer. 
Roger  Babson  said  many  years  ago: 
"What  this  country  needs  more  than 
anything  else  is  old-fashioned  family 
prayer." 

Thank  God  for  prayerl 

In  closing  may  I  quote  from  one  or 
two  of  the  scriptures  because  the  scrip- 
tures are  replete  with  admonitions  and 
direction  to  God's  children  to  pray.  Of 
course,  Christ  set  the  all-important  ex- 
ample. 

If  my  people,  which  are  called  by  my 
name,  shall  humble  themselves,  and  pray, 
and  seek  my  face,  and  turn  from  their 
wicked  ways;  then  will  I  hear  from  heaven, 
and  will  forgive  their  sin,  and  will  heal  their 
land.  (II  Chron.  7:14.) 

So  said  our  Heavenly  Father  to  an- 
cient Israel,  and  I  am  sure  that  call  is 
repeated  to  us  today.  I  ask  you,  when 
you  go  home,  to  turn  to  that  sacred  vol- 
ume of  scripture — that  American  volume 
of  scripture,  if  you  will — the  Book  of 
Mormon,  and  read  the  words  of  Amu- 


108 

Sunday,  October  7 

lek,  in  the  thirty-fourth  chapter  of 
Alma,  in  which  he  calls  upon  us  to 
humble  ourselves  and  continue  in  prayer 
to  the  Almighty.  He  admonishes  us  to 
cry  unto  him  over  our  families,  over  our 
flocks,  over  our  herds,  over  our  fields,  to 
seek  him  daily. 

Yes,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is 
power  in  prayer.  All  things  are  possible 
through  prayer.  It  was  through  prayer 
that  the  heavens  were  opened  in  this 
dispensation.  The  prayer  of  a  boy 
fourteen  years  of  age,  in  the  Sacred 
Grove,  opened  a  new  gospel  dispensa- 
tion, and  brought  forth  a  vision  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son,  as  they  appeared  as 
glorified  heavenly  beings  before  the  boy, 
Joseph. 

God  help  us  to  pray.  In  the  words  of 
Alma,  I  close: 

Counsel  with  the  Lord  in  all  thy  doings, 
and  he  will  direct  thee  for  good;  yea,  when 
thou  liest  down  at  night  lie  down  unto  the 
Lord,  that  he  may  watch  over  you  in  your 
sleep;  and  when  thou  risest  in  the  morning 
let  thy  heart  be  full  of  thanks  unto  God; 
and  if  ye  do  these  things,  ye  shall  be  lifted 
up  at  the  last  day.  (Alma  37:37.) 

God  grant  that  we  may  so  live  and  so 
pray,  that  we  may  be  lifted  up  at  the 
last  day,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  Apostles  has  just  con- 
cluded speaking.  We  are  happy  to 
have  him  mingle  with  us  in  this  Con- 
ference. 

The  closing  song  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  be  "Hallelujah,"  conducted 
by  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  The 
closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Serge  J.  Lauper,  president  of  the  San 
Francisco  Stake,  following  which  this 
Conference  will  stand  adjourned  until 
two  o'clock  this  afternoon.  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  has  been  at  the 
organ. 

We  commend  the  members  of  the 
Church  for  cooperating  with  our  offi- 
cials in  the  city  in  keeping  the  grounds 
clear  of  paper  and  other  litter.  Please 
continue  this  afternoon  to  use  the  re- 
ceptacles which  have  been  conveniently 
placed  for  your  use.  Please  do  not  eat 
your  lunches  in  this  sacred  building, 
even  though  you  are  eager  to  retain 
seats  for  this  afternoon. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  an- 
them, "Hallelujah." 

President  Serge  J.  Lauper  of  the  San 
Francisco  Stake  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  held  Sunday  afternoon, 
October  7,  at  2:00  p.m. 

The  Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle 
Choir  furnished  the  choral  singing  for 
this  session,  under  the  leadership  of 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  with  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

At  this,  the  opening  of  the  seventh 
session  of  the  127th  Semi-Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church,  the  Salt  Lake 
City  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  capacity 
and  overflow  meetings  are  being  held 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall. 
These  services  are  also  being  televised 


over  KSL-TV,  Channel  5,  and  are  being 
heard  over  radio  station  KSL  and  by 
arrangement  through  KSL  over  16  radio 
stations  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Colorado,  Ne- 
vada, California,  and  Oregon. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting 
and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  singing,  "Great  and 
Marvellous." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Scott  B.  Price,  president  of  the 
East  Ogden  Stake. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Great  and 
Marvellous." 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


109 


Elder  Scott  B.  Price,  president  of  the 
East  Ogden  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Scott  B.  Price,  president  of  the  East 
Ogden  Stake. 

We  are  receiving  telegrams  from  those 
who  met  in  Priesthood  Meeting  out 
in  the  Northwest,  Chicago,  and  other 
places,  last  evening,  but  we  have  not 
received  the  compilation  from  the,  I 
think,  18  groups.  Whoever  has  that, 
we  would  appreciate  having  it  in.  Last 
year  the  total  attendance  was  over 
29,300.  With  the  reports  still  out,  lack- 
ing on  the  18  groups,  we  have  report  on 
27,000.  If  they  will  average  200  each 
it  will  exceed  the  number  we  had  last 
year.  If  the  committee  will  compile 
that,  we  shall  be  pleased. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"Lamb  of  God,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Cornwall. 

Following  the  singing  President  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  will  present  for  your 


consideration  and  action  the  General 
Authorities,  General  Officers,  General 
Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  an- 
them, "Lamb  of  God." 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  as  announced 
by  President  McKay,  we  are  about  to 
engage  in  what  in  human  government 
would  be  termed  the  exercise  of  our 
franchise  as  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Your 
sustaining  vote  means  more  than 
merely  you  have  no  objection  or  you 
are  willing  that  those  proposed  should 
serve.  By  your  vote  witnessed  by  the 
raising  of  your  hands  and  arms  to  the 
square,  you  not  alone  indicate  that  you 
have  no  objection,  but  your  vote  consti- 
tutes a  pledge  that  you  will  support  and 
sustain  those  for  whom  you  so  vote. 

This  is  not  a  pro  forma  operation. 
May  the  Lord  impress  upon  us  the  sig- 
nificance of  our  votes  as  we  proceed. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 
David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

Harold  B.  Lee  Marion  G.  Romney 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  LeGrand  Richards 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Richard  L.  Evans 

Henry  D.  Moyle  George  Q.  Morris 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patri- 
arch to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 
Thomas  E.  McKay  John  Longden 

Clifford  E.  Young  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Alma  Sonne  Sterling  W.  Sill 

El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham  Marion  D.  Hanks 
Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant. 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Stephen  L  Richards  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Marion  G.  Romney 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  LeGrand  Richards 

Harold  B.  Lee  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  George  Q.  Morris 
Mark  E.  Petersen 

Administrator,  Board  of  Education 

Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

Harold  B.  Lee  El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Henry  D.  Moyle  John  Longden 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Marion  G.  Romney  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

LeGrand  Richards  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Clifford  E.  Young  Carl  W.  Buehner 

Alma  Sonne 

and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


111 


General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 

Paul  C.  Child  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

Mark  B.  Garff  Walter  Dansie 

Leonard  E.  Adams  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

J.  Leonard  Love  Walter  Stover 
William  T.  Lawrence 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 
Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  Nebeker  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 
Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 
Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


President  Clark: 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  I  could 
see,  the  vote  was  unanimous  in  the 
affirmative. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  thank  you  brethren  and  sisters 
for  your  unanimous  votes  in  the  affirma- 
tive. Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon 
will  be  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  he  will  be 
followed  by  Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner. 


112 

Sunday,  October  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Third  Day 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  I  Can  ask 
for  nothing  more  than  to  have  that 
same  spirit  here  with  me  today 
that  I  enjoyed  as  I  undertook  to  fulfil 
my  assignment  to  visit  the  missions  of 
South  America  this  past  summer. 

I  had  no  sooner  set  foot  upon  that 
great  continent  than  I  had  an  oppor- 
tunity to  meet  with  a  group  of  wonder- 
ful elders  in  the  great  city  of  Rio  de 
Janeiro.  Conditions  that  day  were  not 
as  favorable  as  they  might  have  been 
for  the  making  of  a  good  impression. 
I  was  inclined  to  be  just  a  little  dis- 
couraged. However  an  impression  came 
over  me  when  I  stood  up  to  address 
those  elders  that  there  was  a  spiritual 
awakening  in  process  in  South  America; 
that  the  elders  who  were  then  working 
there  would,  during  the  short  term  of 
their  mission,  become  conscious  of  this 
awakening;  and  that  it  would  bring  a 
great  joy  and  satisfaction  into  their  lives. 

As  I  toured  those  missions,  I  became 
more  and  more  convinced  that  that 
awakening  had  started  in  large  measure 
through  the  relatively  recent  visits  of 
our  General  Authorities  to  that  great 
continent.  I  have  in  mind  the  visit 
there  of  President  David  O.  McKay 
and  President  Stephen  L  Richards,  and 
of  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  some  eighteen 
months  preceding  my  visit. 

I  am  here  to  bear  witness  to  you  today 
that  those  impressions  which  I  received 
upon  that  occasion  have  in  part  fulfilled 
themselves  already.  In  that  great  land 
of  Brazil  we  are  forging  ahead  with  our 
conversions  and  our  baptisms  far  more 
rapidly  than  we  have  ever  done  before 
in  the  history  of  that  mission.  When  I 
first  arrived  and  made  that  prediction, 
President  Sorensen  and  his  elders  had 
hopes  of  three  hundred  baptisms  this 
year.  They  have  exceeded  that  mark, 
and  now  hope  for  five  hundred. 

There  has  been  a  change  in  the  feel- 
ing, the  attitude  of  the  missionaries. 
They  sense,  as  they  have  never  sensed 
before,  that  they  are  part  of  a  great 
movement  that  is  marching  on  to  ac- 
complish its  great  purpose  among  54 
million  people  who  live  in  Brazil,  and 


of  which  some  35  million  are  of  Euro- 
pean extraction.  These  people  represent 
half  of  the  entire  population  of  South 
America. 

From  the  moment  we  landed  in  Brazil 
until  we  completed  our  mission  in 
Brazil,  the  Argentine,  and  the  Uru- 
guayan missions,  there  seemed  never  to 
be  a  moment  but  what  that  assurance 
which  we  received  in  Rio  de  Janeiro 
was  present  with  us.  It  seemed  to  radi- 
ate from  the  membership  of  the  Church. 
They  are  seeking  diligently  to  lend 
obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  The  elders  are  showing 
a  degree  of  diligence  which  would  com- 
mend them  to  any  group  of  mission- 
aries, I  am  sure,  anywhere  in  the 
Church. 

We  had  so  many  notable  incidents 
and  experiences  that  I  shall  not  en- 
deavor to  detail  any  of  them.  I  have 
a  feeling  there  is  a  great  mission  for  us 
to  perform  at  home,  and  that  thought 
has  never  left  me.  I  sensed  in  the  very 
first  meeting  the  importance  of  our 
elders  preaching  an  effective  gospel.  We 
have  all  experienced  here  today  and  in 
the  previous  sessions  of  this  conference 
what  it  means  to  hear  preached  an 
effective  gospel.  Men  have  stood  here 
and  have  borne  their  testimonies  under 
the  power  and  influence  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  They  have  spoken  with  author- 
ity. They  have  had  a  keen  insight  into 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  understand  their  redeeming 
powers. 

And  so  I  say,  as  we  journeyed  through 
those  great  missions  and  enjoyed  the 
sweet  companionship  of  the  mission 
presidents  and  their  wives  and  families, 
we  were  impressed  constantly  with  the 
thought  that  there  was  a  work  for  us 
to  do  here  at  home — those  of  us  who 
are  responsible  for  having  sent  these 
young  men  and  women  into  the  mis- 
sion field.  I  have  come  with  a  plea  in 
my  heart  that  we  dedicate  ourselves  to 
teach  the  young  and  rising  generation 
in  our  homes,  first  of  all,  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  long  before  they  are  called 
upon  a  mission.  Develop  within  them 
power  to  explain  principles,  and  have 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


113 


in  their  hearts  a  testimony  born  of  the 
Spirit  that  the  heavens  have  once  again 
been  opened,  that  the  gospel  has  once 
again  been  brought  to  the  earth,  and 
that  it  is  our  mission  above  all  other 
missions  in  life  to  promulgate  this  gospel 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth  and  to 
teach  the  principles  of  the  gospel  to 
these  peoples  of  the  earth  in  their  native 
lands  and  in  their  native  tongue. 

My  heart  goes  out  to  elders  who  are 
sent  to  missions  in  foreign-speaking 
countries.  I  am  sure  my  feelings  are 
born  somewhat  of  experiences  which 
were  mine  when  I  was  called  to  serve 
in  what  was  then  the  Swiss-German 
Mission,  under  the  presidency  of  Thomas 
E.  McKay.  I  know  what  it  is  to  go  to 
a  strange  country  and  sense  keenly  the 
responsibility  that  rests  upon  us  as  mis- 
sionaries to  preach  the  gospel  to  those 
people  in  their  native  tongues.  I  am 
sure  that  the  time  has  long  since  ar- 
rived when  every  Latter-day  Saint  fam- 
ily should  cultivate  within  the  family 
circle  that  tongue  which  was  native  to 
their  parents  or  their  grandparents. 

We  have  an  example  in  the  life  of 
Lehi  and  his  family.  We  would  not 
have  the  Book  of  Mormon  today  if  it 
had  not  been  for  the  fact  that  Lehi, 
inspired  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  sent 
back  for  those  brass  plates  of  Laban, 
and  thereby  insured  the  perpetuation  of 
the  language  of  their  forebears  in  their 
posterity. 

I  have  a  feeling  that  an  obligation 
rests  upon  those  of  us  whose  parents 
came  from  foreign-speaking  countries 
to  show  forth  our  love  of  the  countries 
out  of  which  we  have  been  called  by 
the  priesthood  of  God  to  the  extent  of 
learning  that  language. 

I  have  rather  a  deep-seated  desire  in 
my  heart,  and  I  always  have  had  since 
I  was  a  boy,  to  want  to  meet  my  great- 
grandfather to  whom  the  elders  first 
preached  the  gospel.  Now,  in  my  case, 
his  language  is  my  mother  tongue.  I 
am  sure  that  same  feeling  exists  in  the 
hearts  of  all  good  Latter-day  Saints 
whose  families  sprung  from  foreign- 
speaking  nations.  That  is  the  loyalty 
side  of  it.  I  have  a  feeling  in  my  heart 
that  we  can  be  loyal  to  the  nation  of 
our  birth,  or  of  our  adoption,  and  still 
show  forth  our  love  of  the  country  of 


our  parents  to  the  extent  of  perpetuat- 
ing its  language  in  our  family  circles. 

I  have  been  reading  with  a  great  deal 
of  interest  recently  a  book  published 
by  James  B.  Conant,  former  president 
of  Harvard  University,  and  now  United 
States  Ambassador  to  Western  Germany, 
in  which  he  says  that  there  are  two 
subjects — he  puts  them  above  all  other 
subjects — which  he  would  prescribe  for 
modern  day  study  in  our  universities 
and  colleges.  The  first  one  is  foreign 
language,  and  the  second  one  is  history. 
Thus  we  have  a  second  reason  for  want- 
ing to  learn  a  foreign  language.  Presi- 
dent Conant  points  out  in  his  book  that 
in  countries  such  as  Switzerland  and 
Holland  a  man  is  not  considered  edu- 
cated if  he  does  not  speak  at  least  two 
foreign  languages.  He  points  out  that 
with  modern-day  transportation,  the 
capitals  of  the  world  today  have  been 
brought  so  closely  together  that  we 
cannot  carry  on  the  business  of  the 
world  without  a  more  intimate  knowl- 
edge of  foreign  languages  than  we  now 
have.  Surely  that  must  be  the  case 
with  the  business  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

We  have  today,  for  example,  five  or 
six  Spanish-speaking  missions.  We  have 
three  German-speaking  missions.  We 
have  three  Scandinavian  missions,  and 
many  other  missions  in  which  foreign 
tongues  are  spoken;  for  example,  the 
Brazilian  Mission,  of  which  I  have 
spoken,  in  which  the  Portuguese  tongue 
is  spoken. 

I  wonder  if  it  would  not  be  becoming 
of  us  as  Latter-day  Saints  to  revive  the 
language  of  our  forefathers  in  order  that 
we  might  better  qualify  ourselves  to 
carry  out  the  great  mission  which  is 
ours  of  preaching  the  gospel  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth. 

I  was  rather  interested  in  the  tendency 
of  the  South  American  countries  to  con- 
centrate upon  the  legal  language,  so  to 
speak;  in  Brazil  and  in  the  Argentine 
many  people  are  of  German  extraction. 
One  whole  state  in  Brazil  is  a  German 
state,  but  during  the  war  it  became  im- 
portant that  all  should  speak  Portuguese 
as  a  security  measure.  So  they  had  to 
give  up  the  teaching  of  German  in  the 
schools  of  that  German  state  of  Santa 
Catarina.    Inside  of  a  few  years,  just 


114 

Sunday,  October  7 

half  a  generation,  you  now  go  to  young 
boys  and  girls  whose  parents  and  grand- 
parents spoke  German  fluently,  and 
speak  to  them  in  German,  and  they  an- 
swer you  in  Portuguese.  They  still  un- 
derstand a  little,  but  they  have  entirely 
given  up  the  speaking  of  that  great 
tongue.  The  same  is  true  to  a  large 
measure  with  the  French.  There  are 
many  French  people  there. 

Now,  it  is  important,  even  down  there, 
that  these  languages  should  be  per- 
petuated. We  have  not  been  able  as  a 
Church  to  send  missionaries  into  Italy, 
into  Portugal,  into  Spain.  Every  time 
we  convert  a  person  in  South  America 
of  European  extraction,  we  are  bringing 
the  gospel  closer  to  their  families  on 
the  continent.  Instance  after  instance 
was  given  us  of  how,  when  a  Portuguese 
family  in  Brazil  is  converted  to  the 
Church,  they  begin  immediately  sending 
their  tracts  and  their  literature,  and 
above  all,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  into 
Portugal.  Some  are  able  to  save  enough 
to  go  to  Portugal.  The  primary  purpose 
of  the  visit  of  these  people  now  to  the 
Old  Country,  whether  they  be  French 
or  German  or  Portuguese  or  Italian,  is 
to  preach  the  gospel  to  their  people, 
their  families. 

The  result  is  that  we  have  some  in- 
stances where  they  have  gone  to  the 
Old  Country  and  converted  their  fami- 
lies, and  then  their  families  have  had 
to  come  to  this  country  in  order  to  be 
baptized. 

In  all  such  instances,  you  see  how  es- 
sential it  is  to  retain  the  language  of 
our  forebears.  I  desire  to  tell  you  the 
story  of  one  German  lad  who  was  born 
of  very  wealthy  parents.  His  father 
owned  a  tremendous  estate  in  Germany. 
He  called  his  son  in  one  day  and  said, 
"My  boy,  all  this  is  yours.  I  am  going 
to  retire." 

The  boy  looked  up  at  his  father  and 
said,  "I  do  not  know  why,  but  I  am 
not  going  to  accept  it.  I  am  going  to 
travel."  Then  he  said,  "I  was  led  as  it 
were  by  a  spirit  to  come  here  to  Brazil, 
and  for  eight  long  years  I  wondered 
why  I  had  left  home.  I  never  was  dis- 
satisfied. I  was  always  happy  about  it, 
but  I  did  not  know  why  until  finally 
one  day  two  Mormon  elders  came  to 
me  and  preached  the  gospel.  Fortu- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

nately  these  two  men  who  were  on  a 
mission  struggling  to  speak  the  Portu- 
guese language  could  speak  enough  Ger- 
man to  this  young  man  to  teach  him 
the  gospel.  He  said,  "They  had  no 
more  than  finished  their  first  confer- 
ence with  me  than  I  knew  why  I  had 
left  my  father's  home." 

His  home  now  has  been  a  gathering 
place  for  the  elders.  He  has  left  his 
wife  and  his  family  of  five  children 
and  is  laboring  in  a  distant  city  in 
Brazil  as  a  full-time  missionary.  He 
is  preaching  the  gospel  to  those  who 
speak  German  in  that  city. 

There  is  an  obligation  resting  upon 
us,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  see  to  it 
that  the  next  generation  of  missionaries 
that  come  from  our  homes  come  better 
prepared  in  two  respects  to  go  forth 
and  fulfil  their  missions,  wherever  they 
may  be  called: 

First,  to  learn  those  languages  which 
are  in  a  way  native  to  the  family.  I 
am  sure  those  who  come  of  German  ex- 
traction will  be  able  to  speak  the  lan- 
guage with  a  better  accent,  with  a 
larger  vocabulary,  and  with  a  greater 
natural  ease  than  those  who  did  not 
have  that  gift  by  right  of  inheritance. 

Second,  to  know  the  restored  gospel 
and  understand  the  great  plan  of  life 
and  salvation  and  have  a  love  of  the 
work. 

I  plead  with  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  anticipate;  and  while  we  are 
anticipating  a  mission  for  our  sons  and 
our  daughters,  we  ought  to  anticipate 
for  them  also  a  marriage,  a  military 
career  for  our  sons  so  long  as  we  have 
compulsory  military  training,  and  then 
a  life's  work.  We  cannot  begin  too 
young.  We  certainly  will  increase  the 
percentage  of  temple  marriages  if  we 
take  it  upon  ourselves  to  instruct  our 
young  people  in  these  important  affairs 
of  life  in  their  early  ages;  we  will  make 
better  missionaries  of  them,  make  better 
citizens  and  better  soldiers. 

I  bring  you  the  greetings  of  the  Saints 
and  of  the  elders  in  South  America. 
They  are  growing  not  only  in  numbers; 
they  are  also  growing  in  strength,  and 
they  have  a  warmth  and  a  hospitality 
which  is  not  excelled  anywhere  in  the 
world.  In  our  very  first  meetings  in  the 
Argentine  at  La  Paz  and  Buenos  Aires 
we  had  a  total  of  just  under  nine  hun- 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


115 


dred  people  present.  There  was  hardly 
a  soul  who  left  those  meetings  without 
coming  up  and  shaking  hands  with 
Sister  Moyle  and  me  and  welcoming  us, 
telling  us  how  grateful  they  were  to 
the  Church  for  sending  first  Brother 
Petersen,  and  then  me,  to  tour  these 
missions.  They  had  the  deep-seated 
hope  in  their  hearts  that  they  would 
be  continually  favored  with  such  visits. 

I  do  not  feel  that  this  report  would 
be  complete  if  I  did  not  tell  you  of  a 
little  story  that  my  wife  used  in  prac- 
tically all  of  the  meetings  that  we  held 
in  these  three  missions.  We  were  try- 
ing to  impress  upon  the  people  the 
personality  of  God,  his  personal  attri- 
butes. Sister  Moyle  generally  empha- 
sized that  point  by  telling  this  little 
story.  There  was  a  boy  (I  cannot  tell 
it  as  well  as  she  does,  but  I  will  do  my 
best) ,  five  years  old  who  was  accustomed 
to  kneel  down  at  his  bed  at  night  and 
say  his  prayers.  On  this  particular  night 
the  mother  listened  at  the  door  to  see 
just  what  he  said.  This  is  what  she 
heard:  "God,  bless  Mama,  bless  Papa, 
bless  Grandma,"  and  then  he  usually 
hopped  into  bed.  But  on  this  occasion 
he  remained  on  his  knees  and  he  said, 


"And  dear  God,  please  take  care  of  your- 
self, for  if  anything  happened  to  you 
we  would  all  be  sunk." 

Now,  I  hope  and  pray,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  we  may  all  sense  keenly 
the  importance  of  living  closely  to  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  having  our  chil- 
dren live  closely  to  him,  that  they  may 
appreciate  in  very  deed  the  personality 
of  God  and  qualify  themselves  to  go 
out  into  the  world  and  preach  Jesus 
Christ  and  him  crucified;  for  I  bear 
witness  to  you  today  that  he  lives,  and 
that  he  died  for  the  sins  of  the  world, 
and  that  he  has  arisen  as  our  atoning 
Savior  and  made  possible  for  us  through 
his  redeeming  sacrifice  the  privilege  of 
gaining  immortality  and  eternal  life  in 
the  kingdom  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

This  I  pray  humbly,  may  be  our  lot, 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  sup- 
pose you  wonder  what  I  might 
say,  and  I  will  tell  you  I  am  won- 
dering that  myself.  I  have  been  looking 
for  another  interpretation  of  the  scrip- 
ture that  says  the  first  shall  be  last 
and  the  last  shall  be  first.  In  this  case 
the  last  is  about  the  last. 

I  certainly  enjoy  my  work  in  the 
Church,  and  with  the  others  I  would 
like  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  divinity 
of  this  great  work.  It  is  wonderful  to 
meet  with  the  brethren,  to  feel  their 
strength  and  their  power.  I  wish 
you  had  the  same  privilege  that  we  have 
of  meeting  with  them.  It  is  also  a  great 
privilege  to  travel  in  the  stakes  of  the 
Church  and  meet  you  wonderful  people 
in  the  areas  in  which  you  live. 

Since  hearing  Brother  Moyle  today 
and  Brother  Bennion  last  Friday,  I  have 
had  the  feeling  that  our  members  living 


in  countries  far  away  from  us  seem 
much  nearer  to  us,  and  hearing  the 
choir  sing  yesterday,  representing  the 
countries  of  Scandinavia,  I  could  not 
help  thinking  what  a  wonderful  repre- 
sentation they  were  of  the  people  and 
how  proud  the  Scandinavians  would 
have  been  had  they  been  able  to  hear 
this  choir  sing  from  this  tabernacle. 

I  have  been  equally  thrilled  by  the 
marvelous  music  today.  Brother  Peter- 
sen had  two  foreign  expressions  that 
revealed  his  gratitude  for  the  Scandi- 
navian choir,  but  in  the  language  that 
these  people  can  understand,  I  can  say 
in  three  words:  It  is  wonderful! 

I  have  been  thinking  a  little  of  the 
great  day  in  which  we  live  and  some 
of  the  marvelous  things  we  observe, 
some  things  that  are  blessings  to  us, 
some  that  might  tend  to  destroy  us, 
and  others  that  might  lead  to  our  self- 


116 

Sunday,  October  7 

preservation.  I  have  been  thinking  of 
the  scientist  or  the  inventor  who  sits  in 
his  laboratory  with  his  test  tubes,  his 
chemicals,  his  minerals,  and  all  of  the 
devices  to  measure  time,  speed,  weight, 
etc.,  and  ponders  over  some  of  the  re- 
markable things  that  he  has  produced. 

The  atomic  bomb  that  we  have  heard 
about  during  this  conference  is  not 
very  large.  It  is  said  that  the  one 
dropped  at  Bikini  lifted  ten  million 
tons  of  water  ten  miles  into  the  air.  It 
is  almost  impossible  to  imagine  such 
power.  The  H-Bomb  exploded  at 
Eniwetok  all  but  wiped  out  a  whole 
island  in  the  Pacific  Ocean,  leaving  a 
crater  175  feet  deep  and  one  mile  wide. 
It  is  said  that  the  power  from  this  bomb 
exceeded  the  power  of  all  the  bombs 
dropped  during  World  War  II  on 
Germany  and  Japan  combined. 

You  may  have  read  recently  that  a 
one  pound  slug  of  polished  uranium, 
which  is  about  the  size  of  a  golf  ball, 
contains  more  power  than  all  the  TNT 
you  could  put  into  Yankee  Stadium. 

What  man  is  doing  is  tremendous. 
I  think  of  the  speed  and  ease  with  which 
we  travel.  Compare  this  with  the  way 
Christopher  Columbus  and  his  crew 
crossed  the  ocean  in  the  Nina,  Pinta, 
and  Santa  Maria — fifty-one  days,  twenty- 
four  hours  a  day.  Have  you  ever  multi- 
plied that?  He  traveled  and  discovered 
a  new  land  at  the  rapid  speed  of  two 
miles  an  hourl  Coming  to  conference, 
I  am  sure  some  of  you  walked  five  miles 
an  hour  to  get  a  seat  here. 

I  read  in  the  paper  recently  that  a 
jet  plane  had  traveled  1,900  miles  an 
hour  and  had  gone  into  the  air  fourteen 
miles  and  broken  the  sound  barrier — 
whatever  that  is.  I  have  had  a  jet  ride. 
I  know  how  it  feels  to  travel  five  hun- 
dred miles  an  hour  in  the  air.  It  is 
thrilling  and  exciting.  Another  jet 
plane  went  all  but  four  times  that  fast. 
We  are  living  in  a  great  day! 

What  man  has  been  able  to  accom- 
plish through  his  own  intelligence  is 
infinitesimal  when  compared  to  the 
power  of  the  Creator. 

We,  too,  are  living  as  it  were  in  the 
great  laboratory  of  life.  We  are  being 
tried  and  tested.  We  are  seeking  the 
combinations  by  which  we  can  progress 
and  prove  ourselves.  We  are  living  in 
this  world  filled  with  good  and  evil, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

with  right  and  wrong,  with  truth  and 
error,  and  with  light  and  darkness.  You 
have  heard  today  that  there  are  false 
teachers,  false  doctrines,  false  prophets; 
and  here  we  have  been  placed.  Refer- 
ence was  made  last  evening  in  the  gen- 
eral priesthood  meeting  to  the  great 
privilege  of  having  a  mortal  body.  It 
means  that  we  kept  our  first  estate.  We 
are  now  being  tried  in  life's  laboratory 
to  see  whether  or  not  we  can  keep  our 
second  estate;  and  it  is  not  an  easy 
thing.  We  are  being  tempted  all  the 
time;  even  the  best  of  us  are  subject  to 
temptation. 

Think  what  we  experience  going 
through  life  and  what  it  means  to  us. 
It  has  been  said  that  we  have  the  right 
to  exercise  our  own  free  agency.  I 
trust  that  this  experience  will  enable  us 
to  select  the  things  that  will  be  con- 
structive and  that  will  bring  us  nearer 
to  the  Lord.  It  is  said  in  the  scriptures 
that  the  earth  was  covered  with  dark- 
ness, and  gross  darkness  covered  the 
minds  of  the  people.  I  am  grateful  for 
that  day  when  the  light  from  heaven 
came  again  and  the  gospel  was  restored. 
Think  of  the  advantages  that  men  have 
now  in  this  great  laboratory  to  seek  out 
the  truth  and  get  together  those  in- 
gredients that  will  help  us  gain  a  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  this  great  work. 

Men  of  science  have  done  great 
things.  Men  living  in  life's  laboratory 
can  also  accomplish  great  things.  We 
shall  not  all  be  saved;  some  will  be 
destroyed.  We  do  not  all  think  the 
same  way.  We  shall  not  all  get  the 
right  combinations  and  arrive  at  the 
same  great  purpose  for  which  we  have 
been  brought  here.  But  I  hope,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  all  of  us  will  have 
a  desire  to  seek  out  those  things  that 
will  eventually  gain  for  each  of  us 
eternal  life  in  the  kingdom  of  our 
Heavenly  Father. 

When  you  contemplate  the  power  of 
the  Almighty  compared  to  the  power 
that  man  seems  to  have  been  able  to 
assemble,  think  of  this: 

And  worlds  without  number  have  I  cre- 
ated; and  I  also  created  them  for  mine 
own  purpose;  and  by  the  Son  I  created 
them,  which  is  mine  Only  Begotten.  .  .  . 

.  .  .  For  behold,  there  are  many  worlds 
that  have  passed  away  by  the  word  of  my 
power.     And  there  are  many  that  now 


BISHOP  CARL 

stand,  and  innumerable  are  they  unto  man; 
but  all  things  are  numbered  unto  me,  for 
they  are  mine  and  I  know  them.  (P  of  G  P, 
Moses  1:33,  35.) 

Think  also  of  the  power  of  the  resur- 
rection, when  the  elements  that  have 
gone  back  to  mother  earth  can  be  as- 
sembled and  united  with  the  spirit  to 
form  a  perfect,  resurrected  body;  the 
power  to  save  and  exalt  in  the  kingdom 
of  our  Heavenly  Father.  As  has  already 
been  said,  and  not  one  sparrow  shall  fall 
unnoticed,  neither  shall  one  hair  of  the 
head  be  lost  (See  Matt.  10:29-31)— and 
that  is  comforting  to  some  of  us,  too. 

God  the  Father  and  his  Son  have  re- 
vealed themselves  in  this  Dispensation 
of  the  Fulness  of  Times.  I  would  like 
to  read  a  quotation  or  two  from  the 
extracts  of  the  history  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 

The  first  verse  tells  why  he  wrote  this: 

Owing  to  the  many  reports  which  have 
been  put  in  circulation  by  evil-disposed  and 
designing  persons,  in  relation  to  the  rise 
and  progress  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  all  of  which  have 
been  designed  by  the  authors  thereof  to 
militate  against  its  character  as  a  Church 
and  its  progress  in  the  world — I  have  been 
induced  to  write  this  history,  to  disabuse 
the  public  mind,  and  put  all  inquirers  after 
truth  in  possession  of  the  facts,  as  they 
have  transpired,  in  relation  both  to  myself 
and  the  Church,  so  far  as  I  have  such  facts 
in  my  possession.  (P  of  G  P,  Joseph  Smith 
2:1.) 

He  continues  by  relating  where  he 
was  born,  when  he  was  born,  telling 
about  the  other  members  of  his  family, 
and  about  a  great  religious  revival  that 
took  place  in  the  area  into  which  they 
had  moved.  I  would  like  to  continue 
from  there: 

While  I  was  laboring  under  the  extreme 
difficulties  caused  by  the  contests  of  these 
parties  of  religionists,  I  was  one  day  read- 
ing the  Epistle  of  James,  first  chapter  and 
fifth  verse,  which  reads:  If  any  of  you  lack 
wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to 
all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and 
it  shall  be  given  him. 

Never  did  any  passage  of  scripture  come 
with  more  power  to  the  heart  of  man  than 
this  did  at  this  time  to  mine.  It  seemed 
to  enter  with  great  force  into  every  feeling 
of  my  heart.  .  .  . 


W.  BUEHNER  117 

So,  in  accordance  with  this,  my  deter- 
mination to  ask  of  God,  I  retired  to  the 
woods  to  make  the  attempt.  It  was  on  the 
morning  of  a  beautiful,  clear  day,  early  in 
the  spring  of  eighteen  hundred  and  twenty. 
It  was  the  first  time  in  my  life  that  I  had 
made  such  an  attempt,  for  amidst  all  my 
anxieties  I  had  never  as  yet  made  the  at- 
tempt to  pray  vocally. 

After  I  had  retired  to  the  place  where  I 
had  previously  designed  to  go,  having 
looked  around  me,  and  finding  myself  alone, 
I  kneeled  down  and  began  to  offer  up  the 
desire  of  my  heart  to  God.  I  had  scarcely 
done  so,  when  immediately  I  was  seized 
upon  by  some  power  which  entirely  over- 
came me,  and  had  such  an  astonishing 
influence  over  me  as  to  bind  my  tongue  so 
that  I  could  not  speak.  Thick  darkness 
gathered  around  me,  and  it  seemed  to  me 
for  a  time  as  if  I  were  doomed  to  sudden 
destruction. 

But,  exerting  all  my  powers  to  call  upon 
God  to  deliver  me  out  of  the  power  of  this 
enemy  which  had  seized  upon  me,  and  at 
the  very  moment  when  I  was  ready  to  sink 
into  despair  and  abandon  myself  to  de- 
struction— not  to  an  imaginary  ruin,  but  to 
the  power  of  some  actual  being  from  the 
unseen  world,  who  had  such  marvelous 
power  as  I  had  never  before  felt  in  any 
being — just  at  this  moment  of  great  alarm, 
I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly  over  my 
head,  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun, 
which  descended  gradually  until  it  fell 
upon  me. 

It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found  my- 
self delivered  from  the  enemy  which  held 
me  bound.  When  the  light  rested  upon 
me  I  saw  two  Personages,  whose  brightness 
and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake 
unto  me,  calling  me  by  name  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other — This  Is  My  Beloved 
Son.    Hear  Him!  (Ibid.,  2:11-12,  14-17.) 

I  think  the  great  message  of  the 
ages  still  is  that  God  lives,  that  he  is 
mindful  of  us,  his  children,  that  he  is 
all-powerful,  that  his  Son  is  the  Savior 
and  Redeemer  of  the  world. 

Other  messengers  came  also.  I  should 
not  take  more  time,  but  just  let  me 
describe  one  other  who  came  to  the 
earth.  Two  or  three  years  had  elapsed 
since  the  time  that  the  Father  and  the 
Son  had  appeared  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith: 

While  I  was  thus  in  the  act  of  calling 
upon  God,  I  discovered  a  light  appearing 
in  my  room,  which  continued  to  increase 
until  the  room  was  lighter  than  at  noon- 


118 

Sunday,  October  7 

day,  when  immediately  a  personage  ap- 
peared at  my  bedside,  standing  in  the  air, 
for  his  feet  did  not  touch  the  floor. 

He  had  on  a  loose  robe  of  most  exquisite 
whiteness.  It  was  a  whiteness  beyond  any- 
thing earthly  I  had  ever  seen;  nor  do  I 
believe  that  any  earthly  thing  could  be 
made  to  appear  so  exceedingly  white  and 
brilliant.  His  hands  were  naked,  and  his 
arms  also,  a  little  above  the  wrist;  so,  also, 
were  his  feet  naked,  as  were  his  legs,  a 
little  above  the  ankles.  His  head  and  neck 
were  also  bare.  I  could  discover  that  he 
had  no  other  clothing  on  but  this  robe,  as 
it  was  open,  so  that  I  could  see  into  his 
bosom. 

Not  only  was  his  robe  exceedingly  white, 
but  his  whole  person  was  glorious  beyond 
description,  and  his  countenance  truly  like 
lightning.  The  room  was  exceedingly  light, 
but  not  so  very  bright  as  immediately  around 
his  person.  When  I  first  looked  upon  him, 
I  was  afraid;  but  the  fear  soon  left  me. 

He  called  me  by  name,  and  said  unto 
me  that  he  was  a  messenger  sent  from  the 
presence  of  God  to  me,  and  that  his  name 
was  Moroni;  .  .  .  (Ibid.,  2:30-33.) 

Actually  these  heavenly  beings  have 
been  sent  in  this  great  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times.  I  would  com- 
mend that  you  accept  the  testimonies  of 
the  brethren  who  have  spoken  during 
this  conference  concerning  this  great 
thing,  the  restoration   of  the  gospel, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

and  I  am  sure  if  you  can  accept  them, 
you  will  have  a  conviction,  a  knowl- 
edge, and  an  understanding  that  this 
great  latter-day  work  is  divine. 

May  we  all,  always,  young  people  and 
all  of  us,  have  a  desire  to  ask,  to  knock, 
to  seek,  and  to  put  together  those  com- 
binations that  will  help  us  eventually 
gain  a  home  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of 
our  Heavenly  Father,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Under  the  direction  of  Brother  Corn- 
wall the  Choir  and  Congregation  will 
now  sing,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God, 
For  a  Prophet."  Elder  Levi  Edgar 
Young  will  speak  to  us  following  the 
singing. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  A 
Prophet." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Del- 
bert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS:  With  yOU 
I  have  enjoyed  this  great  confer- 
ence. The  divine  words  and 
teachings  of  President  McKay  and  all 
the  brethren  will  remain  with  us,  that 
we  may  grow  in  wisdom  and  truth. 

As  the  brethren  have  referred  to  the 
noble  servants  who  had  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord  in  the  days  when  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith  lived,  I  think  of  an 
incident  that  I  shall  ever  hold  in  my 
heart  and  mind.  Having  been  called  to 
preside  over  the  Swiss-Austrian  Mission 
many  years  ago,  I  was  sent  to  visit  the 
University  of  Vienna.  I  was  taken 
through  the  library,  one  of  the  largest 
libraries  of  the  world,  and  the  attendant 
who  was  escorting  me  took  down  a  book 
from  a  shelf,  and  opening  it,  I  read  the 
title  of  it.  It  was  the  Principia,  written 


by  Sir  Isaac  Newton  in  the  early  part 
of  the  eighteenth  century,  and  was 
known  as  the  greatest  scientific  work  of 
the  world.  It  was  written  in  Latin,  the 
universal  language  of  science  at  the 
time,  and  was  the  major  guide  to  the 
world's  scientific  thought.  "Newton  died 
in  peace,"  says  one  writer,  "and  in  the 
knowledge  that  the  fathomless  wonders 
of  the  universe  had  been  given  their 
shape  and  their  motion  by  the  sure 
hand  of  God." 

While  I  was  looking  at  the  Principia, 
my  guide  took  from  the  shelf  another 
book,  which  he  said  was  a  wonderful 
work  of  science.  It  was  the  volume  on 
mathematics  written  by  Apostle  Orson 
Pratt.  You  may  imagine  my  feelings 
as  I  read  the  title.  The  volume  was 
published  in  London,  and  was  used  in 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


119 


the  higher  institutions  of  learning  in 
Germany,  Austria,  and  France.  Here 
they  had  placed  it  at  the  side  of  the 
Principia. 

I  wish  to  say  a  few  words  of  gratitude 
to  President  McKay  and  his  counselors, 
and  all  the  brethren  who  have  spoken 
to  us.  In  these  three  days  of  meetings 
I  am  sure  everyone  feels  that  he  has 
been  encouraged  and  strengthened  by 
what  he  has  heard.  I  shall  not  give  to 
you  this  afternoon  any  prepared  talk 
but  merely  express  my  gratitude  for  the 
divine  teachings  which  have  come  to 
me  as  I  listened  to  the  words  of  wisdom 
and  truth. 

All  of  us  have  had  our  faith  renewed, 
our  testimonies  strengthened,  our  spirit- 
ual selves  quickened  with  divine  light. 
Our  paths  have  been  made  clearer  be- 
fore us,  and  we  are  now  resolved  to 
serve  more  diligently  our  Lord  in  right- 
eousness. To  refer  to  the  beautiful 
messages  of  our  Presidency  and  others, 
we  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed, 
and  that  he  will  yet  reveal  many  great 
and  important  truths  pertaining  to  the 
Kingdom  of  God.  The  ideals  of  love,  of 
government,  of  intelligence,  have  been 
impressive,  and  we  must  contemplate 
these  ideals  with  our  best  thoughts, 
each  one  of  us;  put  them  into  practice — 
our  missionaries  especially — and  our 
class  leaders.  Teachers  must  always 
remember  that  in  speaking  to  people, 
they  must  convince  them  that  we  are 
interested  in  the  good  and  mighty  things 
that  they  believe. 

We  must  in  words  and  demeanor 
show  always  the  dignity  and  authority 
of  man,  and  talk  of  the  noble  rank  he 
holds  among  the  works  of  God.  We 
must  act  in  the  worthy  power  of  pure 
thought  and  let  our  ideals  prevail.  Let 
us  try  more  diligently  to  become  culti- 
vated men  and  women. 

We  have  been  told  to  purify  ourselves, 
to  come  closer  to  the  perfect  ideal  which 
Jesus  our  Redeemer  taught.  The  path 
is  straight  before  us.  We  must  love 
God;  we  must  love  our  neighbor;  we 
must  do  unto  others  as  we  would  have 
them  do  unto  us.    Our  attention  has 


been  called  to  the  Ten  Commandments, 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  the  Lord's 
Prayer,  the  birth  and  resurrection  of 
Jesus  Ghrist,  our  Redeemer.  We  must 
have  faith  in  mankind,  and  the  di- 
vinity of  man  should  be  made  known 
to  our  children.  We  must  be  more 
determined  than  ever  to  fulfil  the 
great  task  expected  of  us,  to  make 
ourselves  better,  to  make  this  a  better 
world  to  live  in,  and  to  bring  mankind 
nearer  to  God.  We  have  been  taught 
that  our  salvation  and  the  salvation  of 
all  mankind  is  found  in  the  true  and 
everlasting  gospel. 

President  Joseph  Young,  who  was  for 
many  years  President  of  the  First  Coun- 
cil of  the  Seventy,  was  chosen  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  this  important 
position.  He  said  on  one  occasion  in 
speaking  of  the  quorums  of  Seventies: 

The  most  effective  way  to  satisfy  one's 
noble  impulses  is  training  one's  intelligence, 
to  have  a  deep  faith  in  Almighty  God,  and 
develop  a  love  for  Truth.  We  should  give 
years  of  study  of  good  books,  years  of  de- 
votion in  the  search  for  Truth.  The  Gospel 
demands  this  of  brethren  holding  the  priest- 
hood of  God. 

In  his  dedicatory  prayer  in  the  Kirt- 
land  Temple,  we  have  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

.  .  .  seek  ye  diligently  and  teach  one  an- 
other words  of  wisdom;  yea,  seek  ye  out  of 
the  best  books  words  of  wisdom;  seek  learn- 
ing, even  by  study  and  also  by  faith.  (D  &  C 
88:118.) 

In  this  day  and  age  of  schools  and 
colleges,  what  a  wonderful  saying  this  is. 

Let  us  remember  the  words  we  have 
heard  at  this  conference  and  make  them 
a  part  of  our  lives,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  Senior  President  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy.  Elder  Del- 
bert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  will  be  our  concluding  speaker. 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  October  7  Third  Day 

ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS,  I  should 
like  to  express  first  of  all  apprecia- 
tion for  the  spiritual  uplift  of  this 
great  conference.  I  have  been  inspired 
by  it.  I  have  been  blessed  by  it.  I  am 
sure  you  have. 

In  his  opening  address  at  the  last 
April  general  conference,  our  beloved 
President  David  O.  McKay  voiced  an 
appeal  for  stability  and  harmony  in  the 
home.  He  expressed  this  timely  con- 
cern: 

"I  am  not  so  sure  whether  we  are 
maintaining  the  high  standards  required 
of  us  in  our  homes.  I  feel  constrained, 
therefore,  at  this  opening  session  to 
make  an  appeal  for  more  stability,  more 
harmony,  and  happiness  in  home  life." 

I  would  recommend,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  a  re-reading  and  study  of  this 
inspired  and  important  address.  The 
wisdom  of  it  is  so  apparent  to  ward  and 
stake  leaders  acquainted  with  the  prob- 
lems in  the  home  life  of  some  Church 
couples,  and  the  poor  relationship  be- 
tween some  parents  and  their  children. 
It  is  apparent  also  to  the  leaders  who 
work  with  youth.  The  President's  vital 
message  brought  immediate  response 
from  the  administrative  officers  of  the 
Church  Board  of  Education.  They  kind- 
ly invited  me  to  address  and  lead  a 
discussion  on  the  subject,  "Counseling 
on  Standards  of  Morality,"  at  a  summer 
seminar  scheduled  for  the  Church 
seminary  and  institute  instructors  on 
the  Brigham  Young  University  campus. 

In  my  personal  interviews  of  youth 
over  the  Church  and  in  visiting  with 
ward  and  stake  leaders  I  had  gained 
some  knowledge  of  the  existence  of 
moral  problems  among  groups  of 
Church  young  people.  However,  in 
preparation  for  this  special  and  im- 
portant assignment  with  the  seminary 
and  institute  instructors  who  are  charged 
with  teaching  the  gospel  to  the  youth  of 
the  Church,  and  therefore  are  close  to 
them  and  their  problems,  I  invited  to 
my  office  a  representative  group  of  each, 
also  four  choice  young  people,  two  boys 
and  two  girls.  The  result  of  these  inter- 
views, together  with  the  information  de- 


veloped from  class  discussion  of  the  sub- 
ject, was  revealing  and  somewhat  alarm- 
ing. At  the  risk  of  some  possible  criti- 
cism, I  desire  frankly  and  honestly  to 
point  out  a  few  facts  concerning  the  dis- 
turbing problems  that  beset  us  and  to 
make  what  I  hope  will  be  some  helpful 
suggestions. 

Here  I  should  like  to  borrow  the 
opening  paragraph  of  an  article  I  re- 
cently prepared  for  the  November  issue 
of  the  Relief  Society  Magazine  which 
will  appear  under  the  caption,  "Develop- 
ing Safeguards  for  Youth": 

"One  of  the  serious  problems  con- 
fronting parents  today  is  a  growing 
tendency  of  moral  laxity  among  youth. 
Too  many  parents  are  not  fully  aware 
that  such  a  condition  exists.  Therefore, 
blind  to  the  evils  to  which  their  chil- 
dren are  exposed,  unsuspectingly,  there- 
fore thoughtlessly,  they  contribute  to  an 
increase  of  immoral  and  sinful  practices 
among  them." 

Good  homes  where  the  gospel  is 
taught  and  lived  and  where  love  pre- 
dominates are  basic  to  the  true  char- 
acter and  high  moral  standards  of 
youth.  Parents  should  recognize  there 
is  much  in  this  modern  world  to  chal- 
lenge the  interests  of  young  people. 
Much  of  what  is  offered  is  good,  but 
some  is  bad,  cheap,  and  of  low  standard. 
The  pressures  of  unwholesome  influences 
are  dressed  up  so  enticingly  and  exerted 
so  cunningly,  that  if  accepted  they 
would  destroy  the  virtues  that  make  for 
true  nobility  of  character  and  a  life 
of  joy  and  happiness. 

Although  we  would  not  want  it  other- 
wise, there  is  so  much  knowledge  present 
in  the  world  today;  and  tomorrow  and 
each  succeeding  day  thereafter  discovery, 
invention,  and  knowledge  will  continue 
to  increase  and  become  so  conveniently 
available  that  mental  development  and 
learning  will  come  earlier  and  earlier 
in  the  life  of  youth.  With  it,  unless 
youth  is  well  grounded  in  the  faith, 
will  come  worldly  sophistication  and 
material  pursuits  and  pleasures.  With- 
out maturity  of  feelings  and  judgment, 
wrong  roads  and  attitudes  can  be  easily 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


121 


taken  that  would  impair  the  promise  to 
them  of  a  rich,  useful,  and  happy  life. 

Parents  and  leaders  of  youth  must 
recognize  the  worldly  pressures  to 
which  young  people  are  constantly  sub- 
jected and  not  close  their  eyes  to  the 
worldly  evils  that  gnaw  unceasingly  at 
the  true  moral  patterns  ordained  of  God 
for  man  to  obey. 

Our  great  challenge  is  to  prepare 
youth  now  by  wise  and  understanding 
teaching  and  counseling  to  escape  these 
lurking  perils  that  would  destroy  their 
very  souls.  To  wait  until  after  sins 
are  committed  before  taking  action  will 
not  eliminate  the  consequences  nor  the 
sorrow  and  heartache  that  follow  trans- 
gression. Satan,  through  his  human 
aids,  has  cunningly  devised  alluring 
schemes  and  enticements  that  confuse 
and  frustrate  youth  as  to  the  true  values 
of  life.  The  moral  and  spiritual  stand- 
ards of  the  gospel  are  frequently  en- 
dangered. Knowledge  of  life  and  its 
facts  are  too  often  obtained  by  youth 
from  wrong  and  undesirable  sources  be- 
cause the  home  and  parents,  the  proper 
source,  too  frequently  close  the  door  by 
side-stepping  the  issue  or  question,  when 
a  timely,  intelligent,  or  understanding 
answer  or  explanation  might  change  for 
good  the  whole  course  of  a  young  per- 
son's life. 

No  doubt  many  parents  lack  an  ade- 
quate vocabulary  to  express  themselves 
about  such  intimate  matters,  but  if  they 
are  parents  of  teen-agers,  does  it  excuse 
them  from  learning  and  securing  proper 
counsel  and  training  to  fulfil  their  God- 
given  responsibility  of  bringing  up 
children  in  the  true  ways  of  the  Lord? 

If  parents  would  take  full  advantage 
of  the  plans  and  programs  of  the 
Church  through  the  priesthood  quo- 
rums, the  auxiliary  organizations,  and 
the  Brigham  Young  University  exten- 
sion courses  in  family  living,  they  would 
competently  qualify  themselves  for  the 
important  task  of  youth  guidance.  If 
parents  do  not  fully  become  acquainted 
with  the  problems  of  their  children 
when  growing  up  in  this  age  of  freedom 
from  restraints  in  boy-girl  relationships, 
can  they  recognize  the  danger  signals 
that  may  be  developing  in  their  lives? 

Most  young  people  are  wonderful, 
teachable,  and  controllable.    The  adult 


world  with  its  conduct  confuses  them. 
Correction  in  this  area  would  largely 
solve  the  perplexities  and  the  problems 
of  youth.  How  versed  are  parents  in 
the  jargon  of  speech  and  terminology 
employed  by  youth  to  enable  them  to 
evaluate  the  meaning  and  seriousness 
of  necking,  light  and  heavy  petting,  dare 
games,  self-abuse,  and  other  evil  prac- 
tices with  which  youth  often  are  too 
well  acquainted,  that  weaken  restraints 
and  resistance  and  thereby  destroy  the 
true  moral  concepts  of  life? 

Parents,  live  close  to  your  children 
and  more  particularly  during  the 
adolescent  years  while  they  are  in  the 
process  of  growing  up  and  experienc- 
ing physical  changes,  and  also  new  and 
strange  emotions  that  they  do  not  fully 
understand.  It  is  a  critical  period  in 
their  lives,  when  a  constant  counseling 
and  stabilizing  influence  is  so  needful 
and  helpful.  It  is  a  time  for  them  to 
learn  about  the  strange  feelings  that 
motivate  their  lives  and  actions.  There 
are  developing  within  them  emotional 
disturbances  and  conflicts  difficult  to 
control,  and  if  the  knowledge  and  help 
they  require  cannot  be  obtained  from 
parents,  youth  may  solicit  help  from 
undesirable  sources  or  from  associates 
whose  knowledge  and  sense  of  values 
are  as  immature  and  unsound  as  their 
own.  Here  lies  a  serious  danger  and 
pitfall  that  must  be  avoided. 

Perhaps  children  should  not  blame 
parents  for  their  own  mistakes,  but  often 
they  do,  following  a  transgression  that 
proper  and  timely  instruction  and  coun- 
sel could  have  prevented.  A  simple  and 
honest  answer  to  questions  and  prob- 
lems so  vital  to  youth  could  make  the 
big  difference  in  their  lives  when 
temptations  arise. 

Parents  should  build  comradeship  and 
love  in  the  home  and  eliminate  strained 
relations  to  insure  stability  and  security 
of  home  life  for  children.  In  dealing 
with  children  there  should  always  be 
love  and  kindness,  yet  firmness,  when 
setting  up  controls  and  rules  of  con- 
duct. 

Youth,  if  properly  taught,  for  the  most 
part  expect  and  desire  restrictions  to 
guide  them  in  social  activities  and 
dates.  Safeguards  and  protective  coun- 
sel are  necessary  to  fortify  them  against 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  October  7 

familiarities  and  intimacies  that  lead  to 
sin. 

What  appears  to  youth  as  fun,  excite- 
ment, or  glamour  may  present  lurking 
dangers.  If  parents  enjoy  the  confi- 
dence of  their  children  and  know  what 
their  plans  are,  they  will  then  be  able 
to  see  the  hidden  perils  before  them  and 
from  the  experience  of  parenthood  give 
protective  guidance  and  counsel  to  help 
control  their  emotions  and  to  safeguard 
virtue  and  honor,  so  essential  to  youth 
for  a  happy  and  satisfying  life. 

Personal  ownership  or  freedom  in  the 
use  of  family  cars  seems  to  be  a  need  in 
the  lives  of  youth  today,  yet  without 
adequate  controls  and  the  observance  of 
respectable  hours  following  parties  or 
dances  the  cars  often  become  agents 
for  intimacies  and  moral  infractions. 

The  responsibility  of  parents  and 
youth  leaders  in  this  modern  scientific 
world  we  live  in  is  to  teach  and  show 
youth  how  to  live  among  these  modern 
factors  and  still  express  a  wholesome, 
integrated  response  to  them  and  build 
up  a  set  of  standards  of  life,  objectives 
that  will  worthily  cull  out  of  life  the 
things  that  destroy  and  cultivate  those 
virtues  that  build  security  and  peace  of 
soul.  Parents  should  help  youth  to 
realize  a  clean  mind  and  body  make  for 
happiness  now  and  eternally. 

Young  people  today  have  too  much 
excitement,  distraction,  and  passive  en- 
tertainment. Perhaps  we  do  too  much 
for  them  and  rob  them  of  the  excite- 
ment, legitimate  and  fully  satisfying,  of 
the  creativeness  which  youth  formerly 
enjoyed. 

Morality  is  one  of  the  highest  achieve- 
ments to  which  a  human  being  can 
aspire.  It  indicates  full  and  complete 
emotional  maturity  and  orientation.  It 
is,  therefore,  very  complex  and  reaches 
into  fields  of  living  which  we  ordinarily 
do  not  associate  with  morality.  If  any- 
thing interferes  with  this  development 
of  maturity,  it  may  be  the  underlying 
cause  of  immorality. 

The  home  environment  and  training, 
then,  become  an  important  and  prime 
consideration.  A  young  man  made  this 
profound  statement: 

"I  know  in  my  own  life  one  of  the 
reasons  I  was  chaste  was  that  I  never 
thought  of  being  otherwise.  I  had  a 
good,  wholesome  environment  and  a 


Third  Day 

deep  love  for  my  parents,  and  the  temp- 
tations were  eliminated  partly  because 
of  it." 

Parents  and  teachers,  also  speakers 
from  the  pulpit,  throughout  the  years 
have  emphasized  to  the  youth  of  the 
Church  full  observance  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  Our  young  people  are  thor- 
oughly conscious  of  this  divine  law  of 
health.  The  same  constant  effort  and 
understanding,  however,  have  not  been 
placed  upon  the  law  of  chastity.  Per- 
haps it  is  because  of  its  very  delicate 
and  intimate  nature  that  chastity  does 
not  receive  the  same  attention  in  the 
home,  in  the  classroom,  or  from  the 
pulpit  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

The  violation  of  moral  purity  is  of 
the  two  sins  far  more  serious  in  the 
eyes  of  God.  Young  people  who  are 
guilty  of  moral  offenses  are  often  true 
observers  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  This 
is  an  evidence  that  the  law  of  chastity 
is  not  receiving  the  attention  it  deserves 
in  the  program  of  the  home  or  of  the 
Church. 

In  a  survey  conducted  by  a  group  of 
Church  seminaries,  each  young  person 
was  given  a  list  of  commandments  and 
laws  governing  the  Church,  among 
which  were  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and 
chastity.  The  young  people  were  asked 
to  list  these  commandments  and  laws 
in  the  order  of  their  importance.  In 
the  compilation  of  the  results  of  this 
survey  most  students  placed  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  in  first  position.  Some- 
where in  their  training  they  had  not 
been  properly  taught  that  the  most  seri- 
ous sin  short  of  committing  murder  is 
that  of  immorality.  The  true  and  vital- 
ly important  values  of  morality  must  be 
clearly  and  unmistakably  established  in 
the  minds  and  hearts  of  youth  to  as- 
sure acceptance  and  compliance  by 
them. 

Religion  should  always  be  on  an  un- 
derstandable and  practical  plane  in  the 
home  where  children  can  live  and  en- 
joy it.  Perhaps  the  Church  should 
provide  courses  of  study  for  the  priest- 
hood, applying  the  gospel  to  help  the 
men  become  better  husbands  and 
fathers.  A  comparable  course  might  be 
suggested  for  the  Relief  Society,  dealing 
with  the  woman's  role  as  a  Latter-day 
Saint  wife,  mother,  and  home  builder. 
Such  courses,  to  have  value,  must  not 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


123 


deal  simply  in  generalities  and  admoni- 
tions, but  must  relate  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  to  the  concrete  knowledge  of 
human  nature  and  behavior. 

God  will  not  excuse  us  for  our  failure 
to  find  the  full  life  meaning  in  our 
theology  nor  for  failure  to  apply  its 
values  to  the  home  and  family  relation- 
ships. Children,  through  sound  home 
religious  instruction,  can  be  helped  to 
attain  wholesome  satisfactions  in  life 
by  developing  basic  loyalties  to  Diety, 
to  the  restored  gospel  of  Christ,  to  the 
appointed  leaders  of  the  people,  to  the 
home  and  family,  and  also  to  the  funda- 
mental principles  of  proper  moral  con- 
duct. 

Mothers,  unless  absolutely  necessary, 
should  not  seek  employment  outside  the 
home,  but  rather  should  honorably  ful- 
fil their  chief  mission  in  life  as  wife, 
mother,  and  homemaker.  Many  prob- 
lems of  youth  stem  from  mothers 
accepting  remunerative  positions  that 
take  them  and  their  wholesome  influ- 
ence out  of  the  home.  Mother  and  the 
home  are  synonymous,  therefore  im- 
portant to  the  safe  rearing  of  youth. 

In  closing,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  I 
return  again  to  President  McKay's  ap- 
peal as  quoted  in  the  beginning  of  my 
talk,  and  suggest  that  we  searchingly 
ask  ourselves  these  questions:  Are  we 
maintaining  the  high  and  important 
gospel  standards  in  our  homes?  Is  fam- 
ily prayer  engaged  in  daily?  Do  we  set 
a  proper  example  as  true  and  faithful 
Saints  for  our  children  to  follow  with 
profit  and  enrichment  of  moral  char- 
acter values  that  will  assure  them  a  life 
of  joy  and  happiness.  Does  harmony 
prevail  in  the  home  with  love  as  the 
controlling  and  motivating  force?  Does 
the  home  provide  security  and  stability 
to  strengthen  family  ties?  Are  our  chil- 
dren comfortable  and  happy,  fully  en- 
joying the  environment  and  companion- 
ship of  family  living?  These  and  many 
more  like  questions  we  could  ask  our- 
selves profitably  as  we  contemplate  the 


full  scope  of  President  McKay's  warn- 
ing. 

I  sincerely  pray  that  we  shall  recog- 
nize not  only  the  home  and  moral  prob- 
lems that  do  exist,  but  that  as  parents 
and  leaders  we  will  also  resolve  to  quali- 
fy and  pledge  ourselves  to  be  living 
examples  of  Christlike  virtues,  that  we 
may  be  able  to  give  wise,  helpful,  and 
understanding  counsel  and  direction  to 
youth  in  the  process  of  growing  up. 

I  pray  that  maturity  will  find  each  of 
them  morally  clean,  sound  in  the  faith, 
prepared  and  worthy  for  the  sacred 
ordinances  and  choice  blessings  of  God's 
holy  temples. 

I  also  pray,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
that  as  leaders  we  shall  give  considera- 
tion to  the  problems  of  youth,  to  the 
need  of  doing  something  constructive 
that  will  help  them  to  understand  life, 
gain  a  knowledge  and  a  testimony  of  the 
gospel  that  will  carry  them  over  diffi- 
cult ground  into  a  life  of  joy  and  happi- 
ness, and  this  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  a  note  that  says  that  when 
we  sustained  the  presidency  of  the 
Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association  of  the  Church,  inadvertently 
Sister  Reeder's  first  name  was  given  as 
"Martha."  Whether  it  was  "Martha" 
or  "Mary,"  we  sustain  unanimously 
Sister  Bertha  S.  Reeder  as  president  of 
the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Association. 

We  have  a  report  of  all  but  fourteen 
of  the  eighty-one  halls  in  which  the 
priesthood  meeting  was  broadcast  last 
night.  The  actual  count  of  those  in 
attendance  totals  27,966.  On  the  basis 
of  those  in  attendance  last  April  at  the 
places  that  have  not  reported,  the  com- 
mittee estimates  an  additional  1785 
people,  making  a  total  of  29,752  mem- 
bers of  the  priesthood  in  attendance  last 
evening.   Thank  you. 


124 

Sunday,  October  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Third  Day 


Just  a  word  about  our  obligation  as 
citizens: 
When  the  Apostle  Paul  was  being 
bound  with  thongs  for  a  scourging,  he 
said  to  the  centurion  that  stood  by,  "Is 
it  lawful  for  you  to  scourge  a  man  that 
is  a  Roman,  and  uncondemned?" 

Then  the  chief  captain  came  and 
said  to  Paul:  "Tell  me,  art  thou  a 
Roman?"  and  Paul  answered  that  he 
was.  "And  the  chief  captain  answered, 
With  a  great  sum  obtained  I  this  free- 
dom." 

I  fancy  that  Paul  straightened  up 
when  he  said:  "But  I  was  free  born!" 
(See  Acts  22:25-28.) 

I  wonder  if  we  freeborn  Americans 
appreciate  what  it  is  to  have  the  right  to 
vote,  to  express  by  our  vote  our  choice 
of  those  who  are  to  rule  over  us.  No, 
thank  heaven,  not  to  rule  over  us — to 
serve  us  in  the  service  of  the  government. 
For  you,  the  electorate,  are  the  rulers 
in  this  great  Republic. 

Those  who  have  taken  out  their  citi- 
zenship I  think  appreciate  it  even  more 
than  some  of  us  who  have  it  by  birth. 

We  have  an  election  in  November, 
in  which  you  have  the  right  to  state 
who  will  fill  the  offices  that  are  now 
to  be  filled  in  the  nation,  in  the  state, 
and  in  our  local  affairs.  We  ask,  we 
plead  that  every  member  of  the  Church 
go  to  the  polls  in  November  and  cast 
your  vote  for  the  men  and  women  whom 
you  wish  to  occupy  the  offices  named. 
Now  you  choose,  and  choose  wisely 
and  prayerfully,  but  cast  your  vote. 

We  have  a  moment  left  in  which  to 
express  appreciation  and  gratitude  for 
those  who  have  quietly  and  effectively 
rendered  service  in  making  these  three 
days  of  conference  so  memorable.  Un- 
doubtedly I  shall  overlook  some,  but 
our  hearts  go  out  to  everyone,  and  to 
all  groups  who  have  contributed  to  the 
success  of  this,  probably  the  greatest, 
the  most  inspirational  conference  we 
have  held. 

I  can  just  merely  name  them.  First, 
we  thank  the  public  press,  especially 
our  leading  newspapers  who  have  been 
so  fair  and  generous  in  letting  the  pub- 
lic who  could  not  attend  conference 
understand  and  to  a  degree  partake  of 


the  inspiration  that  radiated  not  only 
from  the  words  but  also  from  the  hearts 
of  the  speakers.  We  express  appreciation 
to  the  reporters  who  have  daily  taken 
notes  and  so  fairly  and  accurately  re- 
ported each  session  of  the  conference. 

We  express  appreciation  for  the  co- 
operation of  the  city  officials,  including 
Chief  Cleon  W.  Skousen  and  the  traffic 
officers.  I  have  noticed,  as  have  many 
of  you,  that  officers  in  uniform  have 
been  constantly  at  posts  of  duty  pro- 
tecting, as  far  as  they  could,  pedestrians 
from  any  possible  danger. 

We  express  appreciation  to  the  ushers 
who  have  rendered  service  early  and 
late  in  seating  the  great  audiences.  They 
have  been  quiet,  but  effective,  in  their 
services. 

We  have  already  expressed  apprecia- 
tion for  these  beautiful  flowers,  "proph- 
ets of  beauty  and  song,"  among  the 
sweetest  of  God's  blessings  to  men,  to 
life.  How  beautiful  is  God's  world  if 
we  but  stop  to  listen  and  to  look. 

We  express  appreciation  for  the  as- 
sistance rendered  by  the  various  radio 
and  television  stations,  here  in  our  own 
city  and  state,  and  in  other  states  named 
in  the  various  sessions  of  the  conference. 
Truly,  their  service  has  been  the  means 
of  permitting  tens  of  thousands  of  peo- 
ple to  hear  the  proceedings  of  this,  the 
one  hundred  twenty-seventh  semi-an- 
nual conference  of  the  Church. 

We  have  been  greatly  blessed  through- 
out the  conference  with  music — the  first 
day  the  "Singing  Mothers,"  conducted 
by  Sister  Florence  J.  Madsen;  the  sec- 
ond, by  the  combined  Scandinavian 
choirs  under  the  direction  of  Brother 
R.  Hulbert  Keddington;  and  today,  the 
inspirational  singing  of  our  own  Taber- 
nacle Choir  under  the  leadership  of 
Brother  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  How  their 
singing,  so  willingly  and  spiritually 
rendered,  has  uplifted  our  souls  1  We 
have  always  had  good  singing  in  previ- 
ous conferences,  but  I  feel  somehow  that 
these  three  group  of  singers  throughout 
this  conference  have  reached  superior 
heights,  and  we  say  thank  you,  and  God 
bless  you! 

I  wish  to  express  gratitude  for  the  sup- 
port, blessing,  and  strength  always  of 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


125 


Presidents  Richards  and  Clark  and  for 
the  spirit  of  unity  that  pervades  the 
Quorum  of  the  Presidency.  The  wisdom 
of  these  able  men  is  ever  directed  to  the 
furtherance  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 
May  the  Lord  continue  to  bless  them. 

Likewise,  these  members  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve:  You  can  feel  that  in 
these  quorums  (and  I  include  now  the 
Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the  First  Coun- 
cil of  the  Seventy,  the  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric, and  the  Patriarch) — you  can  feel 
radiating  from  these  men  that  for  which 
Christ  prayed  when  he  offered  that 
great  intercessory  prayer.  Among  other 
things  he  said: 

"And  now  I  am  no  more  in  the  world, 
but  these  are  in  the  world,  and  I  come 
to  thee.  Holy  Father,  keep  through 
thine  own  name  those  whom  thou  hast 
given  me,  that  they  may  be  one,  as  we 
are."  (John  17:11.) 

These  brethren  prove  daily,  as  was 
particularly  evidenced  in  a  sacred  meet- 
ing in  the  temple  last  Thursday,  that 
they  have  that  spirit  of  oneness,  and 
we  are  united  in  praying  that  you  presi- 
dencies of  stakes,  bishoprics  of  wards, 
presidencies  of  quorums,  presidencies 
and  superintendencies  of  auxiliaries,  may 
be  so  blessed  that  you  too  may  say:  We 
strive  to  be  one  as  the  Father  and  Son 
are  one.  God  bless  you  that  this  may 
be  true. 

Just  preceding  the  opening  of  this 
conference,  the  Relief  Society  held  dedi- 
catory services  of  the  new  Relief  Society 
home.  They  have  been  crowded,  and 
have  had  to  work  in  the  congested  hall- 
ways, stacked  with  boxes,  to  prepare 
sacred  clothing.  They  have  been  forced 
to  store  away  mementos  and  gifts  be- 
cause they  had  no  room  for  them — gifts 
presented  to  them  by  lovers  of  the  truth. 
Now  they  have  a  home  in  which  these 
gifts  may  be  properly  displayed. 

What  is  more,  the  dedication  of  this 
home  has  given  room  now  to  the  other 
auxiliaries  who  are  crowded,  incon- 
venienced in  their  efforts  to  serve  the 
Church.  The  removal  of  the  Relief 
Society  from  their  old  quarters  to  the 
new  will  relieve  the  congested  quarters 
of  the  other  auxiliaries.  We  suggest  to 
these  auxiliaries  that  they  continue  as 
best  they  can.  Committees  are  now 
working  on  plans  to  help  you  that  you 
may  have  more  room.    In  the  mean- 


time, work  as  best  you  can  until  the 
opportunity  comes  to  give  you  also  more 
room. 

There  are  some  others  to  whom  I 
wish  to  express  gratitude.  We  have  not 
heard  from  them.  They  are  the  men 
and  women  throughout  the  entire 
Church  who  are  contributing  of  their 
time  and  means  to  the  advancement  of 
the  truth,  not  just  in  teaching,  but  in 
genuine  service  in  many  ways.  Some  of 
these  are  struggling  to  make  their  own 
living.  Some  of  them  are  wealthy  men 
and  women  who  have  retired,  who  count 
their  wealth  in  millions.  It  means 
something  when  a  man  of  means  will 
give  to  the  Church  his  contribution  of 
a  million,  and  then  say,  "All  my  time 
is  yours."  It  means  something  to  leave 
your  vocation,  cross  the  ocean,  and 
render  service  to  the  building  of  schools 
and  temples.  God  bless  those  who  are 
rendering  this  service,  and  bless  you  all, 
for  I  think  we  can  say  for  the  Church, 
"We  are  striving  to  be  one,  Father,  as 
thou  and  thy  Son  are  one." 

"Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto 
one  of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren, 
ye  have  done  it  unto  me,"  said  our  Lord 
and  Savior.  (Matt.  25:40.) 

We  are  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the 
guiding  influence  of  his  Holy  Spirit 
throughout  this  conference.  There  is  a 
saying  that  "My  soul  rejects  the  use  of 
words;  Lord,  look  at  my  heart."  We 
can  sincerely  say,  as  unitedly  we  express 
gratitude  to  him  for  his  presence  during 
this  conference:  "Lord,  look  at  our 
hearts!" 

God  help  us  all  to  serve  one  another 
in  his  name  for  the  good  and  advance- 
ment of  the  kingdom  of  God,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"By  Babylon's  Wave,"  with  Brother 
Cornwall  conducting.  The  closing 
prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Loyal 
Hall,  president  of  the  Mt.  Logan  Stake, 
after  which  this  Conference  will  be 
adjourned  for  six  months. 


As  a  concluding  number  the  Choir 
sang  the  selection,  "By  Babylon's  Wave." 


126  GENERAL  C 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Remember  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  Conference  will  convene  in  this 
building  at  seven  o'clock  tonight.  All 
Sunday  School  workers  will  wish  to  be 
in  attendance,  and  the  public  is  cordial- 
ly invited. 

President  W.  Loyal  Hall  of  the  Mt. 
Logan  Stake  will  now  offer  the  bene- 
diction. 


Elder  W.  Loyal  Hall,  president  of  the 
Mt.  Logan  Stake  pronounced  the  bene- 
diction. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


The  congregational  singing  was  con- 
ducted by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  and  Rich- 
ard P.  Condie,  Conductor  and  Assistant 
Conductor  respectively  of  the  Salt  Lake 
Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  choral  music  for  the  Friday  ses- 
sions was  furnished  by  the  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers  from  the  Northern 
Utah  Region,  Ogden  Region,  and  Sum- 


mit Stake,  with  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen  conducting. 

At  the  Saturday  morning  and  after- 
noon sessions  the  music  was  furnished 
by  the  Combined  Scandinavian  Choirs, 
with  R.  Hulbert  Keddington  conducting. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus 
furnished  the  choral  music  for  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  meeting,  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle 
Choir  at  the  Church  of  the  Air  and 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broad- 
casts, and  also  at  the  Sunday  morning 
and  afternoon  conference  sessions. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  Organ  were  played  by  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Roy  M. 
Darley. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference 
were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom  and 
Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


127 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at  7:30 
a.m.,  Sunday,  October  7,  1956.  The 
program  was  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  furnished 
+be  music  for  this  service  with  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ.  Richard  L. 
Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air 
is  presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that 
clergymen  of  many  faiths  may  speak  to 
a  nationwide  congregation.  Today's 
service,  in  connection  with  the  Semi- 
annual General  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  comes  to  you  transcribed  from 
the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square,  through  the  facilities  of  Station 
KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Our 
speaker  is  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  business 
and  civic  leader,  and  Assistant  to  the 


Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 
Church.  Music  is  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
with  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  opens  this 
Church  of  the  Air  service  with  F.  Flax- 
ington  Harker's  setting  for  a  beloved 
and  comforting  Old  Testament  text: 
"How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains 
are  the  feet  of  him  that  bringeth  good 
tidings,  that  publisheth  peace  .  .  .  that 
publisheth  salvation;  that  saith  unto 
Zion,  Thy  God  reigneth!" 

(The  Choir  sang:  "How  Beautiful 
Upon  the  Mountains." — Harker.) 

Announcer:  We  shall  now  hear  on 
this  Church  of  the  Air  Service  Elder 
Alma  Sonne,  business  and  civic  leader 
and  Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  frequently 
referred  to  as  the  Mormon  Church. 
Elder  Sonne  has  titled  today's  talk: 
"Faith,  the  Bedrock  of  Life." 


ELDER  ALI 

Assistant  to  the  Council 

1am  aware  that  Christianity  does  not 
mean  the  same  to  all  people.  There 
are  many  beliefs,  many  interpreta- 
tions, numerous  conflicts  and  much  dis- 
cussion on  matters  pertaining  to  re- 
ligion. I  do  believe,  however,  that  the 
best  people  in  our  country  are  interested 
in  preserving  spirituality  in  America. 
No  nation  can  grow  permanently  great 
without  God.  History  has  so  proven. 
The  foundation  of  spirituality  is  faith 
in  the  true  and  living  God.  Without 
such  faith  man  is  forever  in  the  shadows, 
for  he  has  lost  his  greatest  incentive  to 
right  living. 

One  hopeful  feature  of  the  modern 
times  in  which  we  live  is  a  return  to  the 
Bible.  From  beginning  to  end  this  sacred 
volume  is  a  message  of  faith.  It  is  a 
powerful  testimony  of  the  existence  of 
God,  and  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Its  religious  significance  is  recog- 
nized in  all  Christian  countries.  History 
proves  that  the  Holy  Bible  has  irrevoca- 
bly altered  the  lives  of  men  and  nations. 
It  has  touched  deeply  the  very  heart  of 


1A  SONNE 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

humanity,  its  influence  has  reached  into 
the  literature  of  the  world  and  its  pass- 
ages have  been  quoted  by  preachers 
and  laymen  alike. 

I  believe  that  Biblical  research  and 
intensive  study  of  the  sacred  writing 
will  some  day  contribute  much  to  the 
intelligent  use  of  the  Bible.  Scholarship 
and  honest  investigation  will  eventually 
remove  all  doubt  respecting  its  divine 
authenticity,  its  trust-worthiness  and 
realiability  as  a  guide  to  human  progress. 

It  is  natural  for  most  men  to  turn  to 
the  past  for  proved  wisdom.  The  Bible 
contains  the  wisdom  of  the  ages  and  the 
demonstrations  of  God's  power  to  uplift 
the  human  family.  From  its  pages  come 
a  transcendent  comfort  and  a  deeper 
sense  of  life's  purposes.  I  refer  to  its 
teachings  with  the  utmost  confidence. 
"Search  the  scriptures,"  said  Jesus,  "for 
in  them  ye  think  ye  have  eternal  life: 
and  they  are  they  which  testify  of  me." 
(John  5:39.) 

The  greatest  advocate  and  teacher  of 
faith  in  God  is  Jesus  Christ.  During  his 


128 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


ministry  he  demonstrated  its  power.  He 
taught  faith  to  the  unrepentant.  He  urged 
those  stricken  with  disease  to  exercise 
their  faith  as  a  means  of  receiving  the 
desired  blessing.  He  healed  the  sick, 
raised  up  the  dying,  restored  sight  to  the 
blind  and  brought  hope  and  comfort  to 
the  distressed. 

Thomas  Didymus,  who  was  profound- 
ly shaken  by  the  scene  at  Golgotha,  had 
lost  his  faith.  He  had  said  on  one  occa- 
sion that  he  was  ready  to  die  with  his 
Master.  But  like  the  others,  he  ran  away. 
He  had  become  sullen,  resentful  and  un- 
believing. ".  .  .  Except  I  shall  see  in  his 
hands  the  print  of  the  nails,  and  put  my 
finger  into  the  print  of  the  nails,  and 
thrust  my  hand  into  his  side,  I  will  not 
believe."  (John  20:25.) 

Like  all  skeptics  he  insisted  on  a  mate- 
rial test.  He  would  not  believe  his  eyes. 
He  must  feel  and  touch.  So-called 
"reality"  was  his  stronghold.  But  the 
Master  understood  the  texture  of  his 
mind.  Thomas  Didymus  must  be  re- 
assured and  strengthened  in  his  faith. 

A  week  later,  the  disciples  were  in  the 
same  house  as  on  the  first  occasion  and 
Thomas  was  with  them.  Suddenly  the 
Lord  appeared.  He  greeted  them  all 
with  the  words  "Peace  be  unto  you." 
His  eyes  searched  out  the  doubting 
Apostle.  He  called  him  by  name  and 
said:  "Reach  hither  thy  finger,  and  be- 
hold my  hands;  and  reach  hither  thy 
hand,  and  thrust  it  into  my  side;  and 
be  not  faithless,  but  believing.  And 
Thomas  answered  and  said  unto  him, 
My  Lord  and  my  God."  (John  20:27- 
28.) 

But  to  Thomas  came  the  distinction  of 
receiving  the  last,  but  not  the  least,  of 
the  Beatitudes.  "Thomas,  because  thou 
hast  seen  me,  thou  hast  believed:  blessed 
are  they  that  have  not  seen,  and  yet  have 
believed."  (John  20:29.)  Is  this  not  the 
very  foundation  of  the  Christian  re- 
ligion? Is  it  not  fundamental  to  every- 
thing that  Jesus  taught  and  did?  Thomas 
Didymus  admitted  his  defeat.  He  was 
prepared  at  that  moment  to  recognize 
his  Lord  as  the  Son  of  God,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world.  Thus  fortified 
Thomas  Didymus,  like  the  others,  could 
climb  the  difficult  heights  of  self-denial 
without  wavering  or  faltering.  His  faith 
had  been  restored,  his  doubts  had  fled 


and  the  foundation  upon  which  he  stood 
would  never  give  way. 

Faith  opens  the  door  to  an  under- 
standing of  God — His  character  and 
attributes.  "And  this  is  life  eternal, 
that  they  might  know  thee  the  only 
true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  thou 
hast  sent."  (John  17:3.)  These  words 
came  from  the  prayer  which  Jesus  of- 
fered to  his  Father  for  the  apostles  and 
all  others  who  believe  on  him. 

Faith  is  constructive  for  it  supplies 
the  urge  to  do  things.  A  people  blessed 
with  faith  are  progressive,  and  invincible 
before  difficulties.  Israel  was  delivered 
from  the  Egyptian  bondage  through  the 
exercise  of  faith.  The  pioneers  found 
their  way  to  a  home  in  the  West  and 
laid  the  foundation  of  a  commonwealth 
in  the  desert  because  of  their  faith  in 
God's  promises.  By  the  same  token 
the  Pilgrim  fathers  established  their 
ideals  of  civil  and  religious  liberty  in 
America. 

Without  an  abiding  faith  the  soul 
has  no  anchorage  and  is  "driven  with 
the  wind  and  tossed."  (James  1:6.) 
Man's  faith  in  God  is  an  acknowledg- 
ment of  God's  power  to  save  and  exalt 
the  human  family.  It  recognizes  the 
dietyship  of  Jesus  Christ  and  accepts 
his  gospel  as  the  plan  of  salvation.  It 
puts  man  in  possession  of  vital  informa- 
tion to  lead  him  onward  and  upward, 
and  to  inspire  him  to  live  in  harmony 
with  divine  law. 

Faith  is  a  gift  of  God  to  be  developed 
by  prayerful  and  open-minded  investiga- 
tion. It  sets  up  hope  and  courage  and 
explores  the  realms  of  the  unseen.  A 
loss  of  faith  is  a  tragic  setback  in  the 
journey  towards  perfection. 

Skepticism,  on  the  other  hand,  has  no 
vitality.  It  offers  no  program.  It  con- 
tradicts every  claim  to  a  life  after  death. 
It  robs  man  of  his  belief  in  moral  and 
spiritual  values,  and  destroys  his  fondest 
hopes  and  noblest  aspirations.  Unbelief 
is  negative  and  rejects  the  revelations  of 
God  however  manifested. 

We  are  surrounded  by  many  mysteri- 
ous manifestations  in  nature  and  the 
outside  world  which  we  cannot  explain. 
And  yet  the  miracles  performed  by  Jesus 
and  the  Prophets  have  been  a  stumbling 
block  to  many  whose  faith  is  weak. 
These  deniers  of  God's  power  have  re- 
fused to  accept  the  God  of  the  Bible  as 


CHURCH  ( 

the  Creator  and  the  Ruler  of  the  uni- 
verse. Jesus,  Himself,  proclaimed  his 
supremacy  when  he  said:  ". . .  All  power 
is  given  unto  me  in  heaven  and  in  earth. 
Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations, 
baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the 
Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy 
Ghost:  Teaching  them  to  observe  all 
things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded 
you:  and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway, 
even  unto  the  end  of  the  world.  Amen." 
(Matt.  28:18-20.)  No  Christian  can 
read  those  words  without  having  a 
sense  of  awe  and  reverence  for  the  Re- 
deemer of  mankind.  He  is  the  light  of 
the  world.  He  has  no  parallel  among 
the  many  who  have  aspired  to  world 
leadership. 

Paul,  the  Apostle,  was  a  product  of 
Christ's  gospel.  The  power  of  faith 
manifested  itself  in  the  complete  con- 
quest which  it  made  of  him.  There 
is  as  much  difference  between  Saul  of 
Tarsus  and  Paul,  the  Apostle,  as  there 
is  between  night  and  day.  He  came  at 
a  juncture  in  the  Christian  movement 
when  he  was  most  needed.  His  call  to 
service  in  the  ministry  was  unexpected 
for  he  was  already  listed  with  the  ene- 
mies of  the  cause  he  later  represented. 
His  entire  life  from  the  day  of  his  con- 
version, reflected  an  unconquerable 
faith,  a  firm  conviction  and  an  un- 
shakable testimony  which  has  lived  for 
centuries. 

His  second  letter  to  Timothy,  which 
may  have  been  his  last,  reveals  his  anx- 
iety and  concern  for  those  who  had 
joined  the  faith.  The  letter  was  written 
from  his  dungeon  in  Rome,  where  he 
was  a  prisoner  for  the  gospel's  sake.  He 
begs  Timothy  to  come  to  him  and  to 
bring  a  cloak  which  he  had  left  behind 
in  one  of  his  missionary  journeys.  He 
also  asks  for  books  and  parchments  to 
satisfy  his  yearning  for  knowledge  and 
studies  which  he  had  pursued  during 
his  years  of  missionary  work.  I  quote 
from  his  epistle.  ".  .  .  for  I  know  whom 
I  have  believed,  and  am  persuaded  that 
he  is  able  to  keep  that  which  I  have 
committed  unto  him  against  that  day." 
(II  Tim.  1:12.)  What  could  be  more 
reassuring? 

How  does  the  letter  end?  I  read  the 
closing  words:  "For  I  am  now  ready  to 
be  offered,  and  the  time  of  my  departure 
is  at  hand.  I  have  fought  a  good  fight, 


•  THE  AIR  129 

I  have  finished  my  course,  I  have  kept 
the  faith:  Henceforth  there  is  laid  up 
for  me  a  crown  of  righteousness,  which 
the  Lord,  the  righteous  judge,  shall  give 
me  at  that  day:  and  not  to  me  only,  but 
unto  all  them  also  that  love  his  appear- 
ing." (II  Tim.  4:6-9.) 

Those  words  are  not  the  strain  of  the 
vanquished.  A  few  days  later,  no  doubt, 
he  was  put  to  death  by  Nero,  a  man 
stained  with  every  crime  and  steeped 
in  every  vice. 

Prayer  is  a  manifestation  of  Faith. 
Every  spiritual  truth  and  all  religious 
attainments  have  been  achieved  through 
prayer.  It  is  an  avenue  of  enlighten- 
ment. In  his  utmost  extremity  man  is 
helpless  and  hopeless  without  God. 
Thoroughly  humbled,  he  kneels  in 
prayer  and  comes  away  triumphant.  He 
does  what  is  humanly  impossible. 
Prayer  has  given  stimulus  and  effective- 
ness to  his  strivings. 

The  hour  has  come  to  restore  simple 
worship,  family  devotion  in  the  home,  a 
prayerful  approach  to  daily  problems, 
the  landmarks  of  faith  and  a  sense  of 
God's  eternal  laws. 

When  the  Master  gathered  his  dis- 
ciples at  the  foot  of  the  Mount  and  de- 
livered his  magnificent  Sermon  to  them, 
He  taught  them  how  to  pray.  ".  .  .  enter 
into  thy  closet,"  said  He,  "and  when 
thou  hast  shut  thy  door,  pray  to  thy 
Father  which  is  in  secret;  and  thy  Father 
which  seeth  in  secret,  shall  reward  thee 
openly."  (Matt.  6:6.)  The  prayer  of 
faith  is  a  personal  communion  with 
God.  It  is  the  pathway  to  power.  It 
is  the  road  to  deliverance  and  content- 
ment. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "The  Voice  of  God 
Again  is  Heard." — Stephens.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
sings  next  on  this  Church  of  the  Air 
service  Harriet  Beecher  Stowe's  words 
of  the  glorious  assurance  of  everlasting 
life:  "When  sinks  the  soul,  subdued  by 
toil,  to  slumber,  its  closing  eyes  look  up 
to  Thee  in  prayer;  Sweet  the  repose  be- 
neath Thy  wings  o'er  shading,  but 
sweeter  still  to  wake  and  find  Thee  there. 
So  shall  it  be  at  last  in  that  bright 
morning,  when  the  soul  waketh  and 
life's  shadows  flee.  Oh,  in  that  hour, 
fairer  than  daylight's  dawning,  Shall 


130  CHOIR  AND  OB 

rise  the  glorious  thought,  I  am  with 
Thee." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Still,  Still  with 
Thee."— Shelley.) 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  You  have  been  attending 
CBS  Radio's  Church  of  the  Air.  Today's 
service,  in  connection  with  the  Semi- 
annual General  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  came  to  you  transcribed  from 
the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  through  the  facilities  of  Station 
KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Our 
speaker  was  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  business 
and  civic  leader,  and  Assistant  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  Music  was  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 
Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 

SALT  LAKE  TABERNACLE 
CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  was  presented  from  9:30  to  10:00 
a.m.  Sunday,  October  7,  1956,  through 
the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  the  Colum- 
bia Broadcasting  System's  network, 
throughout  the  United  States,  parts  of 
Canada,  and  through  other  facilities,  to 
several  points  overseas.  The  broadcast 
was  as  follows: 

(The  organ  played,  "As  the  Dew 
From  Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal 
the  Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the 
hymn,  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred  Strain," 
singing  the  words  to  the  end  of  the 
second  line,  and  humming  to  end  of 
verse  for  announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its 
affiliated  stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner,  Tabernacle 
Organist,  and  the  spoken  word  by  Rich- 
ard Evans. 

We  begin  today  with  Cyril  Jenkins' 
impressive  musical  setting  for  the  un- 


\N  BROADCAST 

forgettable  account  of  the  Savior's  si- 
lencing of  the  wind  and  the  waves, 
with  words  paraphrased  from  a  New 
Testament  text:  "Fierce  raged  the 
tempest  o'er  the  deep,  Watch  did  Thine 
anxious  servants  keep,  But  thou  wast 
wrapped  in  guileless  sleep,  Calm  and 
still.  'Save,  Lord,  we  perish,'  was  their 
cry,  'O  save  us  in  our  agony!'  Thy 
word  above  the  storm  rose  high,  'Peace, 
be  still,'  'Peace,  be  still.'  The  wild  winds 
hushed;  the  angry  deep  sank,  like  a  little 
child  to  sleep.  The  sullen  billows  ceased 
to  leap,  At  Thy  will.  So,  when  our  life 
is  clouded  o'er,  and  stormwinds  drift 
us  from  the  shore,  Say,  lest  we  sink  to 
rise  no  more,  'Peace,  be  still.'  " 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Fierce  Raged  the 
Tempest." — Jenkins. ) 

Announcer:  Alexander  Schreiner  turns 
first  today  on  Temple  Square  to  the  ur- 
gent, impelling  movement  of  the 
"Toccata  in  B  Minor,"  by  Gigout. 

(Organ  selection:  "Toccata  in  B 
Minor."— Gigout.) 

Announcer:  And  now  the  women's 
chorus  of  the  Choir  sings  one  of  Robert 
Schumann's  tender  songs,  with  words 
suggested  by  Henrich  Heine:  "How  like 
unto  a  flower  thou  art;  so  good,  so  true 
.  .  .  oh,  may  the  angels  guard  thee." 

(The  Women's  Chorus  of  the  Choir 
sang:  "How  Like  Unto  a  Flower." — 
Schumann-Cain.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
turns  next  to  music  from  the  Messiah 
with  the  words  of  the  Master  para- 
phrased from  Matthew:  "His  yoke  is 
easy;  his  burden  is  light." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "His  Yoke  is 
Easy."— Handel.) 

Announcer:  Dr.  Schreiner  brings 
now  to  this  hour,  a  delicate  and  dis- 
tinctive mood  in  music  by  Fannie  Dil- 
lon: "Woodland  Flute  Call." 

(Organ  selection:  "Woodland  Flute 
Call."— Dillon.) 

Announcer: 

There  comes  to  mind  the  recent  re- 
mark of  a  young  man  facing  some  cur- 
rent problems  and  pressures:  It  was  the 
utterance  of  one  awakening  to  reality: 
"There  certainly  are  a  lot  of  decisions," 
he  said.  This  is  an  awareness  we  all 
come  to.  There  certainly  are  a  lot  of 
decisions.  The  very  essence  of  life  con- 
cerns decisions — the  matter  of  making 
choices.     Some    decisions    should,  of 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


131 


course,  take  time;  some  should  wait  for 
matters  to  mature.  But  there  are  some 
decisions  that  could  take  too  much  time 
— some  that  we  could  wrestle  with  too 
long,  and  to  no  good  purpose.  There 
are  some  choices  we  should  decide 
swiftly — and  then  let  them  alone.  And 
we  could  simplify  many  decisions  by 
separating  them  into  two  convenient 
categories:  decisions  of  principle  and 
decisions  of  preference.  As  to  decisions 
of  principle,  we  shouldn't  really  waste 
much  time  on  clear-cut  questions  of 
right  and  wrong.  "Thou  shalt  not  steal," 
for  example,  is  quite  clear-cut.  "Thou 
shalt  not  bear  false  witness"  is  quite 
clear-cut.  "Thou  shalt  not  commit 
adultery"  is  quite  clear-cut.  Many  such 
decisions  are  clearly  covered  by  the 
commandments,  and  we  could  waste 
a  whole  lifetime  wrestling  with  what 
ought  to  be  more  or  less  automatic. 
(Being  without  standards  in  making 
such  decisions  would  be  like  trying  to 
do  business  without  standards  of  weight 
or  money  or  measure.  Suppose  we 
didn't  have  an  inch  or  a  foot  or  a 
dollar — or  a  pint  or  a  pound — and  had 
to  quibble  about  every  length  and 
measure  and  amount!)  The  decisions  of 
principle,  we  repeat,  should  be  more  or 
less  automatic.  In  this  we  are  reminded 
of  what  Mencius  said  in  one  strong, 
short  sentence:  "Let  men  decide  firmly 
what  they  will  not  do,  and  they  will  be 
free  to  do  vigorously  what  they  ought 
to  do."1  And  now  as  to  decisions  of 
preference — as  to  what  suit  we  should 
select,  or  what  course  we  should  study, 
what  job  we  should  take:  For  such  de- 
cisions we  have  to  consider  ourselves, 
our  qualifications,  our  personal  prefer- 
ences, and  those  of  others  also,  and,  in 
the  more  weighty  matters,  thoughtfully, 
prayerfully,  think  things  through.  In 
the  matter  of  making  decisions,  there 
is  no  easy  all-inclusive  answer,  but  at 
least  some  of  the  essential  decision  can 

iMencius,  Discourses,  iv;  300  B.C. 


be  somewhat  simplified  if  we  distinguish 
between  decisions  of  principle  and  de- 
cisions of  preference,  and  then  have  the 
courage  and  the  character  swiftly  to 
settle  the  decisions  of  principle,  and 
not  waste  time  wrestling  with  clear-cut 
matters  of  right  and  wrong.  "Let  men 
decide  firmly  what  they  will  not  do, 
and  they  will  be  free  to  do  vigorously 
what  they  ought  to  do." 

(Organ  selection:  "He  Died,  the 
Great  Redeemer  Died." — Careless.) 

Announcer:  With  Alexander  Schreiner 
at  the  organ  we  have  heard  a  hymn 
melody  by  George  Careless  which  takes 
its  title  from  the  words  of  Isaac  Watts: 
"He  Died,  the  Great  Redeemer  Died." 

And  now  with  the  earnest  conviction 
of  these  scriptural  words,  the  Choir 
closes  with  worshipful  and  moving 
music  from  the  Messiah:  'Worthy  is  the 
Lamb  that  was  slain  and  hath  redeemed 
us  to  God. . .  .  Blessing  and  honor,  Glory 
and  pow'r  be  unto  Him  that  sitteth  up- 
on the  throne  and  unto  the  Lamb  for- 
ever and  ever." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Worthy  is  the 
Lamb."— Handel.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you 
within  the  shadows  of  the  everlasting 
hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this 
day — and  always. 

This  concludes  the  1416th  presenta- 
tion continuing  the  28th  year  of  this 
traditional  broadcast  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  brought 
to  you  by  CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated 
stations,  originating  with  Radio  Station 
KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  with  its  three  hundred 
seventy-five  voices.  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  once  more  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 


Index 


Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph   36 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   109 

Bennion,  Elder  Adam  S   30 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   104 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   96 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   115 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  Stake,  Ward,  and  Branch  Organizations   36 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   130 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   28 

Church  of  the  Air    127 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.    93 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   82 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   109 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   99 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   130 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting    3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    18 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained   109 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    77 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D   13 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   10 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   48 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   52 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A   26 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   59 

Longden,  Elder  John   51 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R  _   102 

McKay,  President  David  0   4 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  O   88 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
McKay,  President  David  0   124 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0  3,  4,  7,  10,  13,  14,  18,  19,  22, 

26,  28,  30,  35,  36,  40,  45,  48,  50,  52,  58,  59,  63,  66, 
69,  72,  74,  76,  77, 78,  82,  86,  88,  91,  92,  93,  96,  99,  101, 
103,  108,  109,  111,  115,  118,  119,  123,  124,  125,  126. 

Morris,  Elder  George  Q   45 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D   112 

Obituaries   39 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   72 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E  ,   78 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 


INDEX  133 

Page 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    109 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General    77 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    22 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L   40 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L   86 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   14 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   35 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    58 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   63 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   75 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding    19 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   127 

(Church  of  the  Air) 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   120 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers   109 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    130 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting    92 

Third  Day— Afternoon  Meeting    108 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   69 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E   8 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   118 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth   66 


OESERET  NEWS  PRESS 
Print**  la  tfet  Unitsd  Statu  of  Amtita* 


